
'Moonchildren' -page 10 

VOL XIX, NO. 130 FRIDAY, APRIL 19, 1985
thl" indl"pl"mknt ~tudl"nt lll"W~papl"r 'LT\ ill).: notrl dallll" and 'ailll man·, 


MS's 'hottest act' a disappointment to college chairmen 
By BOB VONDERHEIDE a big name, but he had hoped he and MARK WORSCHEH would at least recognize the name. Senior StaffReporters In a conference call Feb. 28, offi­
cials from MS and MTV in New York 
By the middle of February, the of­told organizers from the 12 schools fice of Purdue's inter-fraternity involved that Shaw had been selec­council was an impromptu, six­ted. "Had they not said he was lead hour-a-day local headquarters for guitarist for Styx, I wouldn't have national Multiple Sclerosis. known who he was," Noll said. "I 
And beneath all the phone calls think they got in this thing over their and paper work were seniors Dave heads and made a Jot of promises Noll and Bill McLaughlin, officers of they couldn't keep. the fraternity council and co­chairmen of "Purdue Millions ''I'd like to think they (national MS Against MS." in New York) didn't do it intention­
Even though Noll said the ally, but I'm not so sure. There was a fundraising campaign ran him pretty good front put on," said Noll, ragged -"I know I didn't open a book who represented the other campus for two weeks" -he made the com­chairmen in New York at a meeting mitment because he considered the of the MS Board ofDirectors in Janu­inter-collegiate effort a good cause. ary. The Purdue campaign grossed about "I think there's something $17,000. wrong," agreed McLaughlin, "and I 
think everyone here feels that they 
Now, two months later, Noll has were misled." mixed emotions. "I don't regret it. I Those impressions may have still think it can be a really good pro­come from the "MS Examiner," a gram," he says. But after putting in special publication produced last more than his share of 10-hour days, fall by the New York office ofthe Na­Noll says "under no circumstances" tional Multiple Sclerosis Society. would he do it again. The four-page issue contained an ap­
"I was disappointed in national plication to be a campus chairman MS. A lot of stuff changed from the for the campaign, and it also re­beginning," Noll said yesterday. ported, "According to MTV, they 
Part of Noll's disappointment was will be picking from among the top the announcement that former Styx groups at that time ... MTV has ex­guitarist Tommy Shaw would give pressed its commitment to finding the free April 27 MTV concert the hottest act for 1985." awarded to the college that raised "We did say that it would be a hot the most money per student. Noll 
see SHAW, page 7 says he knew the artist would not be 
Service charges go up 
By MARK WORSCHEH labored long trying to come to that SeniorStaffReporter decision." Kelly said she is aware some stu­
Share draft accounts at the Notre dents may not have the resources to Dame Credit Union that drop below maintain a balance of more than $500 will face a 11>2 service charge $500, but she said such fees prob­beginning May 1. Charges for other ably will be found during the sum­services also will increase. mer at home banks. 
The charge will apply if a mem­"We're trying to give the student ber's share draft (checking) balance the fairest fee structure ofany finan­falls below 11>500 anytime during the cial institution. But the cost ofdoing month. Members on special deposit business has changed radically. A plans will not be charged. Deposit survey we conducted showed that plans include net pay and direct our members wanted us to charge deposit plans in which checks auto­the members who use those matically arc sent to the credit union services," said Kelly. for deposit. Other changes may affect holders 
Also exempt from the charge are of savings accounts. Beginning May participants in the Member 1, a member over the age of 18 who Emeritus program for persons 55 or has only a share savings account older. must keep his balance above $100 
Ruth Kelly, president ofthe credit or face a 11>1 monthly service charge. union, said the fee change was nec­In addition, the credit union will essary to offset reduced income as begin charging new members $1, well as increasing costs. and a $1 charge for a telephone 
"Ten years ago, we were getting transfer offunds went into effect last 12 to 13 percent in investment Monday. New memberships cur­income. But interest rates have rently are free, and members for­dropped, and predictions are that merly received three free rates will drop further this year,"she teller-assisted telephone transfers said. "The cost ofsupplies and paper per month. went up. Everything in general went Members may still use the TONE­up, and our income side dropped." y system to check balances and 
The board of directors of the make transfers for free. The TONE-Y credit union decided to change the service lets members use touch­fee policy during its March 26 tone telephones for direct access to meeting. the credit union's computer. 
"We tried to keep that fee as low Banks in the South Bend area have as possible and keep the credit 
see CHARGES, page 3union solvent," said Kelly. "We 

Notre Dame MS co-chairperson Aline Gioffre for the concert, which will be held on Saturday, hands outfree Tommy Shaw concert tickets to stu­April27 in the north dome ofthe ACC. Story at left. dents. A total of3,200 tickets have been given out 

Gibson to leave position as rector of Calrroll at semester conclusion 
ByANDRE THEISEN "Until quite recently I had every Some residents were angered and News Staff intention ofstaying in the hall," Gib­wanted to protest, but "Father Steve son said, "but as they described their asked us not to. He wants to go out 
Father Steven Gibson, last year's future plans for the University and quietly," said Luke Welsh, a senior in Rector ofthe Year and runner-up for their model for hall rectors, it Carroll. the same award this year, will not be became obvious that I'm not the "We did send a letter to Father returning as rector of Carroll Hall kind of administrator they are Tyson," said Bruce Lohman, a sopho­next fall. looking for." more in Carroll. "It expresses our 
Just a few weeks ago Gibson had Tyson refused to comment on disappointment with what has hap­turned down another position in or­Gibson's situation, nor would he dis­pened, but it also recognizes his au­der to stay on as rector. cuss any plans for a new rector at thority in making such decisions. 
Gibson said he and Father Tyson, Carroll. Other than the letter, we have noth­vice president for student affairs, According to Michael Ialacci, a ing planned. We respect Father had "reached a mutual agreement sophomore in Carroll, Gibson told Steve's wishes," he said. that it would be best if I did not the residents he did not fit the Uni­Acopy ofthe letter was sent to Fa­return as rector next year." He in­versity's mold for rectors. "The ad­ther Hesburgh, University president. formed Carroll residents ofhis situa­ministration must have felt he was "It just seems that there hasn't tion after celebrating Mass with too liberal with students because he been proper explanation consider­them Sunday nigl1t. dealt with matters himself, rather ing the circumstances," said Ialacci. 
Gibson will finish out the year, his than referring everything to Student see GIBSON, page 4third as rector, but it will be his last. Affairs," said Ialacci. 
Poli<~Y sends students across road 
Editor's Note: The following article smeyer, director of resident life Caven said students claim to is part three of a series examining and housing at the College. have to seek "more creative ideas" the aftereffects ofthe alcoholpolicy Rissmeyer said she is glad to see to fufill their social needs. on the Notre Dame/~aint Mary's more students attending the par­She said it was "time to have a campuses. ties sponsored by the College, but policy like that" at Notre Dame, 
said, "Illegal drinking is happen­and added it is in line with Indiana ing." She said there has been an in­state laws.
By RAY MUOORA 
crease in alcohol-related Julie Strazzabosco, a Saint Mary's 
StaffReporter 
problems, many including Notre senior, said the change in policy 
Dame students. has had little effect on upperclas­Why did the Notre Dame stu­smen who have already estab­dents cross the road? 
Alcohol: lished friends at Notre Dame.
Several Saint Mary's officials She said freshman have gottenspeculate more students may have One year the worst of the deal because thecrossed the road to the College be­later policy has eliminated many eventscause of the University's new alco­formerly used to provide a way tohol policy. 
meet new friends.
Sister Karol jackowski, dean of The College's drinking policystudent affairs at Saint Mary's, Margaret Caven, of the Office of only allows 21-year-olds to drink,noticed an increase early last se­Alcohol Education and hall direc­either in their rooms or at desig­mester in "problematic parties." , tor for both Regina and Augusta nated areas on campus. The most 
. Positive and negative resultk Hall has not noticed an increase in popular of these areas is the club-
from an increase in Notre Dame Notre Dame students coming to students coming to Saint Mary's to Saint Mary's, but said students may 
see ALCOHOL, page 5socialize were noted by Pat Ris-have other opinions on the matter. 
The Observer 


In Brief · 
The American Cancer Societyis planning to capitalize on the generally friendly rivalry between Indiana and Ken­tucky with a tug-of-war across the Ohio River near Evansville, Ind. Cancer society chapters on both sides of the river hope to raise $10,000 apiece from the July 13 event, said Rhoda Baum of the southwest Indiana chapter. "Maybe we'll settle once and for all who owns that river," Baum said, referring to the 200-year-old dispute over what point on the river marks the states' boundary. -AP 
Four Dutch men were arrested Wednesday for hang­ing posters offering a S4,400 reward for anyone who "liquidates" the pope during his visit to Amsterdam next month, Amsterdam police said. The four men, who were not identified in accordance with Dutch police practice, were held in custody on suspicion of "inciting an attack on a foreign head ofstate," said police spokesman Klaas Wilting. Under the Dutch penal code, the maximum penalty for the offense is 15 years in prison. -AP 

Of Interest 
Today is the last day of Italian Culture Week. This morning at I I: I 5 Edoardo Lebam>, president of the American Asso­ciation of Teachers of Italian, will speak on "What Makes Italians Tick." At I: I 5, Lebano will deliver a lecture in room I06 O'Shaughnessy titled "Uno Sguardo all' Italia." The week will con­clude at 4:30 with an award ceremony for the National Italian Soci­ety in the faculty lounge of Memorial Library. -The Obseroer 
The Collegiate Choir of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will present a concert this Sunday at 8 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. Conducted by Nancy Menk, music instructor at Saint Mary's, the program will include selections by Handel, Haydn, and Mathias. The public is invited to attend free ofcharge. -The Obseroer 
Sociology students and faculty from a six-state region will present research papers on a variety ofcurrent top­ics beginning at 9:30 Saturday morning in O'Shaughnessy Hall. A speech will be given at noon by David Pilgrim, assistant professor of 
sociology at Saint Mary's. He will discuss "Deception by Strategem: Segregation in Public Higher Education." This lOth annual conven­tion ofsociologists is open to the public. -The Obseroer 

Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Dance Theater is presenting a "Spring Dance Concert" tonight and tomorrow night at 8 in the dance studio of Regina Hall. Colleen Quinn, a former Saint Mary's student, is presently the visiting assistant professor of dance at the College and has choreographed the production. The concert will include various styles ofdance including musical theater, classi­cal ballet, modern, and the technique of Isadora Dum.11n. The num­bers will combine to celebrate the arrival of spring. A 51 admission fee will he charged, and season subscribers to the ND/SMC Theater will be admitted free. -The Obsen>er 
The ND/SMC CharityBall:AFamilyResponseto the Crisis in Ethiopia will be Saturday at 9 p.m. in Stepan Center. Tickets for this semi-formal event are on sale in the dining halls, dorms and Rock DuLac record store. Tickets will also be available at the door. Admission is S6 per person and SlOper couple. Proceeds go to Ethiopian reliefservices. -The Obsen;er 
"The Rhetorical Climate ofthe 60s" wm be the topic ofa presentation by CarolJablonski ofthe department of communication and speech at Indiana University. The speech will be held Sunday night at 7:30 in the ETS Theatre in the Center for Continuing Education. 'Ibe presentation is a multi-media show con­veying the triumph, turmoil and tragedy of the decade. It is sponsored by the departments ofcommunication and theatre, Amer­ican studies, government and psychology along with the Center for Social Concerns. -The Obsen>er 

, Weather 
--,-, 

Warm winds will blow through the trees today as the temperature rises to the mid 80s under partly cloudy skies. Fair and mild 
~:

tonight with lows near 60. A 30 percent chance of thunderstorms tomorrow with highs in the mid 80s. -AP 
Today's issue was produced by: 
Design Editor................. Maureen Murphy

The Observer 
! 
Design Assistant ............ Matt Gracianette Typesetters ...................... Bill Highducheck lbe Ob.erver (USPS W9 2·4000) is Vic Guarino publlshrd Monday through Friday and News Editor .............................Jane Kravcik on homr football Saturdays, rxcrpt Copy Editor ................... Cindy RauckhorM during rxam and vacation prriods. lbe Sports Copy Editor....................... Phil Wolf Obec:~r Is publlshrd by thr studrnts of Viewpoint Copy Editor .........John Heasly 
the llnivrnity of Notn: t>amr and Saint Viewpoint layout ........... Mariell.abrador Mary's CoUrgr. Subscriptions may hr Features Copy Editor .............. Mary Healy purcha.srd for 130 prr yrar ( JlO prr sr· Features layout ............ Mark Mcl.aughlin t mrstrr) by writlnglbe Obec:rver, P.O. ND Day Editor ...................... Mark Winters Box Q. Notrr Damr,lndiana 46~~6. SMC Day Editor.................... Ellen Mastako ~ Obec:""'r is a mc:mhrr of lbe Ad Design .............................. Kevin Murphy AModakd ~""· All n:production John O'Connor rights arc: rc:srrvc:d. Photographer ............................ Carol Gales 


Friday, April 19, 1985 -page 2 




Transfers last to get housing 
At times I've felt like Hester Prynne from "The Scarlet Letter." Instead ofa letter "A," I wear an imaginary letter "T" for transfer. 
At this late date in second semester, the awkward ad­justment period is a past concern for those who trans­ferred to Notre Dame last fall. 
Yet there are still many transfers, females in particular, who feel they're being neglected. They're on the long and seemingly hopeless waiting list for on­campus housing. • 
They've been on the list since last summer when they received their acceptance letter and immediately called the housing office to assure a spot on the waiting list. 
I was told I should plan on being off campus for first semester. However, chances were good that I could be moved on second semester. 
Notre Dame's policy of guaranteed student housing for freshmen makes temporary O.C. housing routine for transfers. But after awhile, 
the so-called waiting list mester it's obvious there begins to feel like a sucker isn'f enough room. list. However, "We don't decide 
Right now, only some how many to accept, that's transfers .can share these determined by the enroll­grievances. The rest are ment committee," said 
,,

either male and had no diffi­Leonardo. culty getting on campus at In an attempt to speak to break or they're one of the someone on the enrollment 42 females who were committee, I spoke to Leo squeezed on in january. Corbaci, dean of administra­
I'm one of approximately tion. "The number of 80 females on the waiting females we accept was de­list who will not get on termined by the trustees of campus between now and the University back when the end of the semester and women first began attending 
are finally being told Notre Dame." defilaitely plan on being off These answers seem so campus first semester next simple but they leave those anxious to be on
year. That's a different tune for the housing office. Last year's melody was a bit more hopeful. 
Anger, frustration and exasperation are common feelings shared by many of the 80 who see the vicious cycle about to begin again. The first available rooms next semester will go to freshmen who have been in temporary housing. 
The next students to be housed will be leave-of­absence students. According to Evelyn Reinebold, director ofstudent residences, this is because these stu­dents are really Notre Dame students who have left for a period of time. 
'!ben come the three-two engineers, students who have been at another school for three years and have come to Notre Dame for two years of intensive engi­neering studies. 
Finally, any rooms that become available will be of­fered to those on the list. 
That's the process. 

Margaret McCabe 
Assistant Accent Editor 
It seems simple but those who were given hope of getting on campus feel cheated, a feeling strengthened by a trip to the Administration Building, home of the run-around. 
I discovered this on a recent visit there. The housing office only told me the facts: my housing number and ­no housing next semester. Further questioning had me packing off to the first floor where I could speak to Pat Leonardo, assistant director ofadmissions. 
I was curious as ~i> why so many females were being 
admitted while each fall se­


campus 

with a bad taste in their mouths. 
Leonardo said, "Transfers should not come to Notre Dame with any expectation of getting on campus." lt seems they should find the other benefits offered worth the sacrifice ofhousing. 
The attitude that transfers are getting what they asked for and are more-or-less on their own just doesn't seem to be a good philosophy for a Catholic university. 
A transfer advisor may be just what the administra­tion needs ro avoid many complaints that the students present. 
It may be that students aren't necessarily unhappy off campus, just tired offeeling like numbers on a list. 
We're tired of feeling like "good business" deals for the University. Our willingness to snatch up beds pro­vides a certain amount of financial security. Maybe some of that security wiJI result in a new girl's dorm. 
Take heart oh weary dormless ones. Try to adopt the philosophy that many under the Golden Dome main­tain when it comes to transfers -you're alive and you attend classes at Notre Dame. Don't ask for much more than that. 

The Observer/Carol Gales 

Almost 1,100 tickets have been sold for Satur­freshman Monica Spoelstra and senior jim Tyler. day's Notre Dame/fiaint Mary's Charity Ball. Emil The ball will be heldfrom 9 till 2 at Stepan Center, Hofman, dean ofFreshman Year ofStudies, helps featuring the bands New Edition and Uptown. Chairman Danny Harrison, far left, sell tickets to Story at ri~ht. 

War waged against elm tree disease 
Special to The Observer official title and Notre Dame's elm trees from the grounds." Without trees are in the middle of the war the woody corpses, beetles have a War has been declared on the zone. tough time finding a place to wage 
Notre Dame campus. The disease is caused by the their war games. 
Dale Getz, assistant superintend­fungus Ceratocystis ulmi, and is ent of grounds at Notre Dame, acts spread by bark beetles as they feed Spraying insecticides is another as field general. "We lost five this on the branches of healthy trees. defensive measure Getz uses in his past year," he said. The enemy, The American elm is easy prey for fight against the bark beetle, al­though, has suffered 675,000 the small insect, sometimes surviv­though he views spraying as a neces­casualties. ing only weeks after contracting the sary evil. 
Actually, it's a nationwide battle disease from the bark beetle. that has raged on and off for the past On Notre Dame's 1250-acre Fungicide injections make up the 55 years. Locally, Notre Dame has campus, Getz wages a four-pronged offensive front against the fungus. brought the battle under control in a attack. "The first part of our plan in­The chemicals are pumped into unique way -by fighting back both volves keeping our elms properly trees from a pressurized tank, hel­offensively and defensively. pruned so the beetles can't breed in ping to maintain the health of the 
Dutch elm disease is the enemy's them. Secondly, we remove dead tree and fight the fungus. 

Play the Domino's Pizza Game cards are available Fast, Free Delivery'" "No Problem" Game and at participating Domino's 
277-2151 
you might win a brand . Pizza locations. Game 1835 South Bend Ave. 
new Porsche 944 Sports Rules are on the back of 
Plaza 23 Center
Car from Domino's Pizza the cards. No purchase South Bend
and Coke':•Just rub off necessary. the Problem section of the game card. Then rub Play the "No Problem" off the Solution section to Game and Win! see if you won a prize such as a FREE serving Limited delivery area. of Coke~''toppings, pizzas Our drivers carry less or one of five Porsche than $20.00. 944's!! Hurry! Game ends May 19. 

II.
C 1985 Domino's P1zza. Inc. 
Friday, April19, 1985-page 3 
Ball chairtnan excited as the date draws near 
By BOB MUSSELMAN Stepan Center is 3000. He said there AssistantNews Editor is a possibility of a sellout the way tickets have sold the last few days. 
If you ask Danny Harrison about Harrison takes his job seriously. this Saturday night's Notre "This situation in Ethiopia is not Dame/Saint Mary's Charity Ball, be funny, it's not a joke," he said. prepared for a mouthful -he might "It's not a gimmick. It's a reality not stop talking about it. that people are starving to death." 
"I get real emotional just talking He welcomes the chance to do and thinking about it," said the something material for the dying in Grace Hall junior. Africa, though he considers this ac­
The ball, subtitled "A Family tion just a drop in the bucket. Response to the Crisis in Ethiopia," "We've got to send more than will take place in Stepan Centerfrom tears. Tears don't do nothing but 9 to 2. Two live bands, "New Edi­make a wet mess," he said. tion" and "Uptown," will provide Harrison hopes the Notre the entertainment, and refresh­Dame/Saint Mary's community will ments will be served. come through with the necessary 
According to Harrison, his group support, but feels confident it will. needs to cover overhead ofapproxi­"I'm not kidding you," he said, mately 5800, the amount going for "everything is going smoothly. God food, promotions, and other miscel­is pretty much smiling on us." laneous expenses. Stepan Center "I know this is a University of was donated and the bands are being giving, love, and family. Everything paid for by alumni organizations is going to be okay. There's no stu­from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. dent here who can't give," he said. 
But Harrison would rather talk Students selling tickets last night about more important things. in the North Dining Hall agreed with 
The idea of "doing something for Harrison's optimism. Brendan Con­the people ofAfrica" came to him as roy, a senior from Grace, said he has he was trying to figure out some way been getting some of the "basic to "change a societal problem." The Notre Dame apathy," but for the particular notion of raising money most part things are going well. He for the starving of Ethiopia came said he has gotten donations even after consulting with friends, family, from those who could not give the and Grace Hall's Father Dave Porter­full amount. field. Danny Gamache, a sophomore 
from Grace, said he was under the 

Not only has the idea caught on impression the ball was close to with the estimated 500 volunteers being soldout. He said he also had who comprise the 19 committees received donations in addition to organizing the ball, but students ticket sales. seem to be taking a genuine interest, Tickets are S6 for singles and n 0 according to Harrison. for couples, and are available in both 
"It's kind of magical," he said. dining halls; department offices of "Everybody's doing something from government, chemistry, black their heart." studies; the Center for Social Con­
As of last night, Harrison said an cerns; and from dorm representa­estimated 1100 tickets had been tives. They will also be sold at the sold. The maximum capacity for door. 
Leprechaun selected 
By MARKS. PANKOWSKI "We had to do a skit which was 30 Copy Editor percent ofour score," he said. "I did something called 'The Evolution of After a meteoric rise to fame and the Leprechaun.' I cut six songs into popularity, Jeff Anhut made it to the the tape, the last one being 'Wipe­big time Saturday night. out,' " said Anhut, adding "I'd be a 
Anhut, best known for his wild fool if I didn't put (the dance) in dancing every time the band struck some place." up the song "Wipe-out" at basketball In addition to a skit, those trying games, was chosen to be Notre out to be the leprechaun were re­Dame's school mascot, the leprec­quired to do several gymnastics haun, for next year. stunts, dance the Irish jig, and be in­
Trying to be the leprechaun "has terviewed by a panel of judges. not been a lifelong ambition, it just seemed like the thing to do," said "(Anhut) was good in all the Anhut. "After seeing me dance at the categories," said Hotvedt. "One of ball games, some people suggested it the areas he was outstanding in was to me. It sounded like fun and I the original skit. It showed a lot of would be able to support the creativity and a lot of energy," she school," he added. said. "He had very good showman­
Anhut said it "remains to be seen" ship." whether or not next year's leprec­According to Hotvedt, the judges 
l haun will be doing the dance that were not affected by Anhut's made Anhut famous. popularity for his famed "Wipe-out" ~ 
"What I'm required to do is up to dance. Said Hotvedt, "There were me. I'm an autonomous character on enough judges from out oftown that the squad," he said. "They can tell didn't know he participated in that." 
1 

me where I can and cannot go, but 
j

after that, it's up to me." What did sway the judges, accor­
1 
~

According to Astrid Hotvedt, ad­ding to Hotvedt, was Anhut's inter­visor for the cheerleaders, Anhut view. "We saw a serious side ofJeff will be able to do his dance and still and the committee felt that he represent the University as the would represent Notre Dame well leprechaun. for public relations," she said. "Some 
"He's so creative that I think he people think he's just wild and crazy, can take the 'Wipe-out' component but (the interview) showed there and extend it into more dynamic ac­was a little more to him than just tivities," said Hotvedt. "What we'll that." want to do is incorporate those Anhut, who stands 5-7 and qualities and still let him stay in the sported a beard for the tryouts, said leprechaun character." he is looking forward to next year. 
Anhut, who last week bested five "I want to get people excited others in the tryouts, already has had about the ball games. I don't have some practice incorporating his any profound words, just that I hope dance into the leprechaun charac­next year's seasons are good ones," ter. he said. 
However, 1st Source Bank still is waiving the normal balance require­
Charges 
ment for Notre Dame and Saint 
continuedfrom page 1 

Mary's students. These accounts minimun. balance requirements must be opened at 1st Source's of­ranging from S600 to S800. fice at Saint Mary's. 


The Obserwr Friday, April 19, 1985 -page 4 
Fire precautions clarified; special attention given to loft rule 
By CHRIS SKORCZ 
SentorStaffReporter 
In an effort to clarify the Univer· sity's policies concerning fire precautions. ht·alth anJ safety, copies of DuLac have been dis· tributeJ 10 each room anJ have been posteJ in each dorm. 
This year's regulations do not dif· fer signiticantly from previous years' rules, hut some clarifications have been ma<.le. 
"Our intent wa.' to make the policies clearer before (lofts) get built next year," said father Francis Cafarelli, assistant vke prt:sident for studt·nt affairs. "Studt:nts must be consciou~ ofsafety because wt: can't risk our lives or the lives ofothers." 
Emphasizing the safety factor, Cafardli explained one of the greatest points of misunderstan<.ling · the distinction between lofts and elevated beds. 
"Lofts are precisely what we say they are: platforms or structures constituting additional floor surfaces. We reiterated this issue he­cause, although lofts have been
"' I 
By KIMBERLY TRENNER 
Sentor StaffReporter 
David Wood will be spending a 
lot of time at Senior Bar next year. 
No, he won't be pursuing an ac­
tive social life, hut instead will be 
serving a.' manager of the Alumni· 
Senior Club, it was announced yes· 
tt·rday. 
Assistants Bryan Oedrick and 
Kevin Morrissey, managers ofclub 
promotions anJ fooJ supplies, 
respectively, will assume their 
duties beginning on the day of the 
blue anJ gold game. 
"lbe new managers were hired after a series ofinterviews with the present managt·rs and then with Joni Nt·al. Jirector ofstudent activ· ities, Father Francis Caffarelli, assis· tant vice president for student affairs, ami John Bowie, this year's general manager. 
"Ibe first interview narrowed the field from .25 candi<.lates to seven, and the final choices were made in the second interview. 
'Inc candi<.lates were examined for several qualities. 
Bowie said, "We lookcJ for someone who wa.' motivated, someone who could han<.llc the job and balance studies with work. We looked for people who could manage people." 
As the general manager, Wood will be responsible for overseeing the bar and the 25 staff members. "I'm really glad I got this position," Wood said. ''I'm psyched to work here again this year; I was a bartender last year." 
Gibson 
continued/rom page I 
"Father Steve's philosophy as rector is not to try and catch students, but to trust them so they can approach him when problems arise. There is a strong mutual trust. It may appear to be lax, but it works." 
Gibson echoed that sentiment. "It probably appears permissive from across the lake, but from what goes on, I have reason to believe it works," he said. 
banned for several years, they have most people die from smoke inhala­startt:J to reappear so we decidt:d to tion," he added. look at them again," he said. Regarding the publication of the 
"Elevated he<.ls an: simply beds rules, Cafarelli said the recent regu­that arc above the floor. lbey are lations are not entirely new. Rather, either made of wood or stacked on they have been "rearranged point top of each other to save space," he for point. We felt they had to be put said. into a more logical order," he said. 
Included in the section of the fire An additional issue concerns precautions devoted to elevated or those students who have already stacked beds are regulations on the constructed lofts and non­height ofeach such structure and its regulation clcvat~ beds, or those proximity to the ceiling. AccorJing who have been forceJ to compro­to rule 8c, "All such beds shall be mise room space in or<.ler to con­constructed and located so that the form to the regulations. top surface of the top mattress is at 
Sorin resident Dick Proscn currently has a loft in his room. 
"We had trouble getting it legalized," said Prosen. "At first it was a battle with our rector but after the fire marshal inspecte'-! it, we got it approved. However, we will proh· ably not be allowed to keep it next year," he saiJ. 
Proscn's loft is unique because it is located in a room with 14-foot ceilings. 'lbc L-shaped loft divides the room into two storie1>, one able to stanJ under the loft as well a.' on top ofit. 
"We once had .20 or 30 people dancing up there. 'Ibis wa.' the ul­timate party room but no longer since our rector is not too crazy about it," said Proscn. 
Responding to complaints that certain dorms simply do not have enough space to allow completely regulation beds, Cafarelli said,"It is unfortunate for some dorms but we must minimize risks. We can't be ab­solutely safe but we can halance what is reasonable with the risks in· volvcd." 

least three feet from the lowest cdling surface." 
Elevators proposed for buildings 
Cafarelli said."'lbe ceiling rule is By MIKE ANNAN LISA '!be plan calls for one or two
there for saft:ty and good health. After talking to the fire marshals, we 
News Staff elevator shafts to he installed in the decided that three feet seems to be 
cast hallway of the building, starting the general idea. It is enough so a 
Administrators won't have to bat· on the first floor where the student tic with the stairs in the Administra· employment office is now, Mason
person can sit up in bed without hit· ting his head. tion Building anymore -if plans to said. The elevator will probably ser· 
"Furthermore, when a fire starts, 
install elevators are approveJ. vice all five floors Jue to an an· the accumulation of smoke and gas Although the plan has not yet ticipatcd increase in the use of the been finalized, lbomas Mason, vice upper floors. he said.
rise and the lack ofair decreases the president for business affairs, said he Cole and Associates, the architec·
time a person ha.' to survive. We are first trying to protect peo?le since 
is "optimistic that it will be ap· ture firm contracted for the upcom· proved and that work on it can begin ing Lafortune renovations, has 
this summer." drawn up the plans for construction, 'lbe proposal was submitted for and Oon Dedrick, director of the
Club managers chosen 
consideration to Father Joyce, exec­University's physical plant, has been WooJ has spent the past three utive vice president, earlier this put in charge ofthe project. days working with both assistant week, Mason said. Mason said the cost of installing 

managers, giving interviews and 
choosing the staff. "We have been 
swamped with applicants this year; 
there seems to be more than twice 
as many a.' la.'t year," said Wood. 
New this year is the hiring of an 
administrator to oversee monthly 
financial problems. Wood said, "A 
lot of money changes hands here. 
It's a big business and we are treat­
ing it a.~ one." 

Dedrick will be responsible for 
placing ads in the paper and for 
promoting the bar as a club for the 
whole university. not just the 
seniors anJ alumni. "I'm looking 
forward to having a great year," he 
said. "We have great people and a 
great new staff." 

"My position requires a lot of 
time but it's very rewarding. 'lbere 
is a good salary so it really pays off." 
Dedrick foresees many changes next year, such as renovating the bar and expanding the kitchen. His plans include programming more events for un<.lergrads, who have trouble fin<.ling places to go on campus. 
Morrissey's job will involve or· dering all supplies anJ running the kitchen. "I decided to apply for this position because of my love of 
. :......:'.,';, ,; 

business and my desire to run the bar. I'm very excited. I can't wait to start," he said. 
.: ..
"Our first priority is to increase the availability ofdifferent kinds of fooJ and to improve the kitchen," 
~::Jig~~h
he said. 

would like to thank you for making Bud Break 
'85 come alive from here all the way down to 
"He may not appear to be as strict 
the beach! Welcome back from a sunny, relax· 
as most rectors," said lalacci, "but he 
ing, safe and responsible vacation. And if by
has developed a gooJ sense of com· 
.; ... ·,' ·:. ·. ·, ' ... ' . :: ..... .. . 
munity and respect in CarroU that I chance we weren't able to greet you in person
:·.• .. ..·.• ..
think a Catholic community like with a free Bud Break poster over the break,
·... ·; '·.··
.... ( .....
Notre Dame should encourage." 
send for yours now while the supply lasts. Each poster is a bright, sunny reminder to 
"The general consensus in this 
.. maintain that Spring Break atti­
hall is that they made a mistake. He's 
tude all the way into summer,
a great person and is going to be dif· 
ficult to replace," concluded Loh· when you can do it all again... 
man. and Know When 'Ib Say When. Send your name and address 
Gibson does not yet know the 
along with a check or money
position he will hold next year. 
order for noo (made pay­able to Busch Creative 


Services Corp.) to cover
Corrections 

postage and han-dling for 
Because of an editing error, one participant in the South African investment panel was in· correctly identified in a photo· graph yesterday. David Burrell, Notre Dame professor ofphiloso· phy and theology, was pictured with Kellogg Fellow Motumbo Mpanya. 
Because of a reporting error, 
each poster ordered. 
Father Francis Cafarelli, assistant 
~ Mail Orders to: Bud 
vice president for student 
Break Poster Offer,
services, was given the wrong 
5240 Oaklml Ave.,
title. 

St. Louis, MO 
Because ofan editing error, the 
63ll.O 
photo on the front page was in­correctly identified. The man in the dunking booth was Father Mark Poorman, rector of Dillon. 
two shaft~ will be about 5400,000. Much of this, he said, will go into maintaining the 200-yt:ar-old atmo· sphere of the building. 
"We don't want to just slap on alu· 
minum doors in the mi<.ldlc of 
beautiful wooden ones," he saiJ. 
"Although there are always struc­tural concerns in a building this old, the proposeJ elevator poses no sig· nificant problems,'' he added. 
The elevator proposal came as a part of a restructuring program which also calls for elevators to be installed in Lafortune anJ wa.,hing· ton Hall. 
.. .... -. ·.. 
. -. ­
~ 
'. 
·.· .... 
"'•,. 

The Observer Friday, April19, 1985-page 5 
Reagan sees nothing wrong with his visit to Nazi cemt~tery 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON President Reagan insisted yesterday there is nothing wrong with his plan to visit a German cemetery where Nazi SS soldiers are buried and said the young men interred there "were vic­tims, just as surely as the victims in the concentration camps." 
The statement touched off an­other outburst ofcriticism ofReagan and his German visit, with one jewish leader calling the comments "morally unconscionable and politi­cally outrageous." 
During an interview with approxi­mately 100 editors and broadcasters at the White House, Reagan said he could not do an about-face and strip the visit from his I 0-day schedule in Europe, asserting that would "look as if I had caved in the face of un­favorable attention." 
"I think that there's nothing wrong with visiting that cemetery where those young men are victims 
-of Nazism also, even though they were fighting in the German uni­form, drafted into service to carry out the hateful wishes of the Nazis," Reagan told the group. "They were victims just as surely as the victims in the concentration camps." 
Reagan announced earlier this week he would add a visit to a con­centration camp or a similar place as a means to quell the controversy and show his wish to honor the victims of the Nazi terror. 
A White House spokesman said Reagan aides Michael Deaver and William Henkel were returningfrom Germany and would meet with the president today to decide whether Reagan will visit Dachau or some other concentration camp site. 
The president said "that there is much to be gained" from the visit, because the German people "live in constant penance, all these who have come along in these later years, for what their predecessors did and for which they're very ashamed." 
Abraham Foxman, the associate national director of the Anti­Defamation League of B'nai B'rith and himself a Holocaust survivor, said, "I am flabbergasted at the con­tinued insensitivity and shocked at the lack of historical perspective." 
Rabbi David Saperstein, the direc­tor of the Religious Action Center of Reform Judaism, said,"For the presi­dent of the United States to equate the soldiers who died in an attempt to subjugate the world to an uncon­scionable ideology, with those who were the tragic victims of the imple­mentation of that ideology, is morally unconscionable and politi­cally outrageou~'­
"It shows that he has learned nothing from the controversy of the past week," said Saperstein_ 
Meanwhile, Elie Wiesel, who was named chairman of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council by Reagan, publicly called on Secretary of State George Shultz to ask the president not to visit the cemetery. 

Electronic billboards flash names in order to find children 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. Forty electronic billboards began flashing descriptions of missing children along the highways offive states yes­terday in a stepped-up effort to lo­cate the nation's growing number of lost, runaway and abducted youngsters. 
"This has never been done before," said Carol Long, a volunteer for Child Keyppers' International, which organized the project. 
"We don't know how successful it will be, but we think it may boost our efforts to locate more" of the 825,000 youngsters reported mis­sing annually. 
A description of 16-year-old Bobbijo Neeley of Huntsville, Ohio, was the first one shown yesterday on billboards donated in Tennessee, Kentucky, Indiana, Illinois and Ala­bama. Billboards in Florida, Texas, New York and Missouri will be added during the next few months, said joanne Currier, the group's director. 
"The billboards have the potential to reach 150,000 people each day. If we can get just 10 of those looking for a particular car or license plate, we should be able to start sighting more children," Long said. 
"We've already used CB radios to get truckers to help us, but the bil­lboards will get the everyday person involved, too," she said. 
The billboards -plugged into a computer in Owensboro, Ky. -will flash descriptions ofyouths, the kind of vehicle they may be traveling in and possible routes, along with the toll-free numoer of the Missing Children Network in Dayton, Ohio. 
"The key to this program is quick­ness. The information can go on the boards within minutes after police reports are completed and the legal work is finished," she said. 
The billboards were introduced along with a series ofradio messages featuring country music artists warning children and parents how to guard against disappearances. A Nashville-produced album of safety rules put to music also will be dis­tributed for children through the 
U.S. Department ofEducation. 


Undergraduate and Graduate Courses 
Courses 1n Arts. Science and Busmess Administration including: 
Computer Science • Laboratory Science • Health Care Administration • Facilities and Property Management • Gerontology • Family Counseling • Soc1al Sciences • Human1t1es • Foreign Languages • Many Other DisCiplines 
Special Programs 
Summer M1n1 Sess1on • Special Interest Workshops/Seminars • Special Institutes • Summer Theatre Festival • Computer Day Camps • Independent Study Options • Continuing Education 
Day, Evening and Weekend Classes 
8 Evening Sessions • 3 Day Sessions 
Westchester and Rockland Campuses 
For further information call the Director of Special Sessions at (914) 633-2592 or return the coupon below_ 
Mail-in registration now being accepted. 
I I I D 715 North Ave. D One Dutch Hill Rd. I 
I  New Rochelle  Orangeburg  I  
I  New York 10801  New York 10962  I  
:  (914) 6}3-2592  (914) 359-2252  i  
1  Yes, I would like further information on the  1  
1  following programs:  1  
I  I  
I  I  
!Name  I  
1 AddressI  II  
I City  State  _  Zip  _  I  
over 21 and organizers have sub­


L-------------------~~J 
0 N A c 
0 L L E G E 
----~--------------------------------------------------------' 
Child Keyppers began in 1983 in Florida and today has volunteers in every state except Wyoming, Hawaii and Alaska. The organization dis­tributes posters of missing children and helps coordinate the justice De­partment program to photograph and fingerprint children -records which police use to track down a child who later disappears. 
The billboards will be concen­trated along parts of the nation's three primary routes used by runaways. 
Britislt expel Soviet spies 
Associated Press 
LONDON -Britain yesterday or­
dered a Sovier diplomat and an 
Aeroflot official expelled as spies, 
but said it still hoped to maintain 
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's 
drive to improve relations with Mos­
cow. 
Given seven days to leave Britain 
were Capt. Oleg Alexandrovich Los, 
44, assistant naval attache since No­
vember 1982, and Vyacheslav 
Anatolyvich Grigorov, 37, a charter 
flight manager for the Soviet state 
airline Aeroflot since May 1982. 
Both are married and have children. 
The Foreign Office said Los, who 
has diplomatic status,"had been 
found to have engaged in activities 
incompatible with his status," while 
Grigorov "engaged in unacceptable 
activities." 
The phraseology is a euphemism 
for espionage. The Foreign Office 
gave no other details ofthe men's ac­
tivities. 
Thatcher's 10 Downing St. office 
made no comment on the expul­
sions. 
Guennadi Shabannikov, Soviet 
embassy press attache, said,"The 
embassy would like to make it ab­
solutely clear that this unwarranted 
action of unfriendly character is 
without any foundation what­
soever." 
Alcohol 
continuedfrom page I 
house, which anyone can rent out 
for parties. 
Alcohol can be served at these 
events only if t·veryone present is 
mitted a list of all students attend­
ing. Enforcement of this policy is 
left to the group using the building. 
Mary Anne O'Donnell, director of student affairs, said there has been an increase in attendance at clubhouse parties. Problems have resulted from uninvited guests trying to gain entrance to the par­ties. 
Caven said some of these in­truders "are underage and some are not. The College is enforcing that policy," and any illegal drink­ing is occurring where it cannot be detected by the staff_ 
She said "No segment ofsociety is protected from alcohol abuse." 



Annual Record & !ape Super Sale! 
MOLLY HATCHET 

HEART
PINK FLOYD 
•nc.;ludn-.g

J.it,~f;u~n~«'t'n 
Bounty Hunt_. ·c;.tor Countfyo'B19 AppM
..,.4 c·.o~~....,;.•,,o/( ;,,.,,, 
Oro•m!llll NeYer St!tt·Tru&l Yo~o~~ CMd Fr~er\d

Bart.cud.t'Love Altvi/Sylvan Song 
Dfum Of TMArcher/K•ck h Outllr..l Me Well
'1:\,,..,.. _-.;...,.J.' 
..
one......, . 
OrwOI TMNO.r• Mofwr·Shftp Sh.ne On You Crazy o..monct WtahYou\YefelWf• Anolhef BIKk In lM W..IP.-1 Nl 

!housands of Albums &Cassettes! 



BOB SEGER SYSTEM

All these titles 
-R8mblln' Gemblin' M8n 

and many more! 





NEIL DIAMOND 
t'LASSJCS-Tilt.; EAHLY YEA ItS 
•ncludtng Chen~ Cherry/Solitary Moln 
Th•nk n!·~~'jlo;"T:-~19hl Tl~ 
Girl, Vou'll Be A Woman Soon 

.. 
LET'S BEAT IT BODY MOVES 
~it·~;l. -~ 
'-··_J ·~•'~ 
I • , 
' -~ rlj I ~ 
,IJ') ,,, 
-~~ *',, ' 





BILLY JOEL IRON MAIDEN COLD SPRING HARBOR. Maiden Japan 
R(!t~sur ol thr. or· ,,n,,l I 1971 11lbun• mdut 1119 
Slle s Go! A Way 
Ev~~=~~~~~\'of.~~~~dNow 



Givethegiftofmusfc. 


HAMMESNOTREDAMEBOOKS~RE 



-----~~----~~ -· ----~~----------~---~----­
The Observer Friday, April19, 1985-page 7 
surprised at the selection. "I heard it Robyn Sosnowski, chairwoman at December meeting to register would be an up-and-coming artist," Marquette, said she was promised in workers for the campaign. 
he said. Reaction to Shaw has been October that the pedormer would Also, in a taped interview with
Shaw 
mixed at Drake, but Tillotson said he be one of the "top touring groups." The Observer last December, continuedfrom page I didn't want to risk losing support by The promise was never put in Gioffre said the college with the 
announcing the selection in early writing, she said. highest per capita donation "wins a group," said Beverly Noyes, national March. "We didn't tell anybody until But, she added, "nobody ever said free concert by one of the top five chairwoman for the "Millions after the campaign because we were to me it would be a top five act." rock groups touring during the Against MS" campaign. "But we disappointed," he said. Editor-in-chief Thomas Disrud of spring as determined by MTV." were really clear with the fact that it Charlene Kulick, publicity direc­The Marquette Tribune said the Last fall, Vince Willis, co­would not be anybody in the top tor for the MS campaign at Mar­campus was upset with the Tommy chairperson at Notre Dame, five." quette University, said students Shaw announcement. "At that prepared a two-page "M.S. Info" 
Steve Wosahla, public relations of­there were disappointed with the point," he said, "everybody laughed memo for campaign workers in ficer for MS. said, "We stated from Tommy Shaw selection." 'We prom­and said 'This was a joke. We have which he wrote, "As of now, the the start it wouldn't be Michael Jack­ise you it will be the hottest act.' been made fools of. We have a loser band has not been selected; son or Culture Club, but we knew it That's what we were being told all for a concert.' I think a lot ofpeople however, bids have gone out and we would be someone well known from along," she said. are really resentful ofit." are expecting a decision anytime the next tier down." According to Kulick, Shaw was to At the University of Michigan, now. One thing is for certain, the 
Yet, at least eight campus chair­be the opening act for a Daryl Hall where II> I0,000 was raised, steering performer will be one of the hottest men say they were under the im­and John Oates concert in Mil­committee member Rob Marcus acts in the country." pression all along that the performer waukee on April 8. Even though the said, "The people at national MS told But Wosahla of MS said, "Nobody would be the top touring act or at concert was later cancelled, Kulick us that ifit wasn't Bruce Springsteen from our office said it would be a top lea~t one of the hottest groups said the thought of having an it would be someone comparable. five act." around. And to them, Tommy Shaw opening act return two weeks later They gave us high expectations and And a spokesman at MTV in New doesn't belong in that category. as a major concert did not set well. we were disappointed. People were York who declined to be named 
"They said it was going to be "We'd have to think about what the really upset when they found out. said, "That was never publicized someone really hot at the time -word 'major' means." "We felt misled-very misled," he from our end, and to our knowledge, direct quote," said Michigan State's The slogan for Marquette's cam­added. The Michigan campaign or­MS never used any language like chairman Ted Spirko. "We all took paign was "Make It Happen," which ganizers decided not to tell the that." that to mean a headliner name." Kulick said was used in part to campus about Shaw because "some Noyes, campaign director at MS, 
He said the announcement of publicize the possibility of bringing enthusiasm would be lost," Marcus said, "The first time I saw anything Shaw's selection to the campaign the concert to Milwaukee. Mar­said. about it was in one of your (The staff "went over like a lead balloon," quette raised $22,300, but finished Notre Dame co-chairperson Aline Observer's) articles. I called Vince and he decided not to tell the second in the contest to Notre Gioffre said that officials at "national and he basically said it was a campus. "With the little enthusiasm Dame. MS" told her they "had hoped it misquote." we had,. I thought announcing it "We didn't play up who it might would be a top five act on spring Willis said this week, "MTV has would totally kill it." be," she said. "We tried to gear the tour." And Gioffre related her under­fulfilled every obligation, period. 
Curt Tillotson, chairman for MS at campaign so there wasn't a single standing at the Nov. 14 meeting of We were never promised a top five Drake University, also expected "the student who wasn't aware of what the Hall Presidents' Council and at a act. If anyone has proof that MS or hottest act for 1985." He said he was was happening." MTV promised us a top five act, I 
would personally like to see it on this desk" 
"The last thing I want to do is sound bitter," Gioffre said. "If we had lost, does that mean everyone would have written a letter to the paper saying, 'I donated all that money and we didn't win?' 
"No one knows how come Tommy Shaw was picked. I'm sorry that Bruce couldn't come or that Cyndi couldn't come. I don't feel like I should defend myself. The con­cert was never the focal point ofour campaign. When we found out that it was Tommy Shaw, anyone who asked was told." 
Although Gioffre did not partici­pate in the Feb. 28 conference call when Shaw was announced, she said she learned of the selection soon after. 
"The performer for the concert shouldn't be our primary concern," she added. "It wasn't meant to be a secret. Rather, we just said since it hasn't been a focal point of the cam­paign, why start now." 
Chip Rachlin, acquisitions direc­tor for MTV in New York, said, "This is a charity at the beginning and at the end. Perhaps you need to re­evaluate why you were contributing to this charity.'' 
Noyes of MS agreed: "The spirit of the thing is really getting lost here, and I feel really sorry about that." 
On Jan. 3, the campus chairmen met with MTV and MS officials in Chicago. "We made it really clear at that point that it wouldn't be a Springsteen or a Michael Jackson or that sort of thing," Noyes said. "Maybe some of the campus com­mittees got a little overzealous." 
Vandana Bhide, chairwoman of the campaign at the University of Wisconsin, said that at the January conference, MTV's National Market­ing Director Bob Friedman indi­cated the concert might be John Cafferty or the Fi:xx.
Pizza Hut®Delivers 
"They said, 'what do you think?' 
_____________.....__ 
And everybody said that would be fine," Marquette's Sosnowski said. 
Bhide said there was a feeling of frustration at the conference be­cause MTV kept "hemming and
1$2 OFF any Large Pizza 
hawing" and would not commit to a performer. "MTV was just saying 'we don't know, we don't know,' " Bhide said. 
I~~m~i! '~~~,~~!,'!!~~!~~~! 
I 
at participating P1zza Hut· Special Delivery·· units. Not valid for dine-in or "Because of the power of MTV, we carry-out. or in combiQation with any other Pizza Hut· offer. Limited Delivery all assumed it would someone really Area Offer good only on regular menu prices through May 3, 7985. 
big. I think a lot ofthings didn't work out the way anybody planned. I guess I'm disappointed, but I under­stand. I know MS and MTV did the
I;;:;~;~~;;:~~;··~~;;; 232-2499 I
HOURS. 
best they could." What constitutes a "hot" group 
may have caused much ofthe misun­
L!'.zza Hut ··s Rolll.n' Now' _J
4•00 p.m.-2.00 a.m.. Fn -Sat
• 4'00 p m.-12M Sun.-Thurs 
derstanding. "I think Tommy Shaw is a big 
name, yes, and so is his band. He's 
not a nobody," said Noyes. "MTV's 
not going to put anyone on the net­
work that's not somebody." 
Shaw embarked on a solo career 
after the 1983 release of Styx's Kil­
roy Was Here album. His first LP, 
Girls With Guns, was released last 
October, and videos from two ofthe 
songs on the album have appeared 
onMTV. 
Yet, McLaughlin of Purdue said 
MS could have made it clearer what 
kind of a group was being consid­
ered. "We were told at day one that 
it would be a hot group, somebody 
popular right now. We were told 
this all along. I hardly believe 
Tommy Shaw is the hottest group at 
this time," he said. 
But Shaw's backers -including his 
agent, his record label and MTV-all 
have faith that Shaw could develop 
into a "hot" act. "We think we will 
all be proven r1ight," said MTV's 
Rachlin, referring to the statement 
in the "MS Examiner" that MTV was 
committed to finding the hottest act 
for 1985. "We think Tommy's career 
will grow and develop, and he'll be 
around for quite a long time. Trust a 
pro. Tommy's a pro. I would like to 
hear from people after the show. It's 
easy to criticize now." 
"I wouldn't say he's in the top five right now. He's certainly well known from his work with Styx," said Stewart Murphy, a spokesman for A&M Records in Atlanta. Murphy said Girls With Guns spent several weeks in Billboard magazine's Top 100 last year, selling more than 200,000 copies. In South Bend, both Camelot and Musicland record stores carry the album. 
In Los Angeles, Shaw's agent Jerry 
Kramer also is high on the guitarist. 
"Tommy really shines on stage. He 
was very interested in doing it from 
the start." 
Kramer said that "approximately 
five or six weeks ago," Rachlin 
reached him at the Denver airport 
and told him about the joint project 
with MTV and MS. "We thought with 
Tommy Shaw being a Midwest rock 
'n' roll band, he would be perfect," 
said Kramer. 
Tommy Shaw's band includes Richie Cannata, saxophone player for Billy Joel; Bryan Stanley, bassist for Bryan Adams; Steve Holly on drums; and Michael Blair on keyboards. 
Rachlin said he used three criteria for chosing the appropriate group: availability, willingness to do a bene­fit concert, and freedom from obligations which would prevent taping the show. MTV intends to air the tape during the Memorial Day weekend. 
The search for a performer began in January, Rachlin said, and several big name groups were ruled out im­mediately because they wouldn't be on tour in April, 
But the performer who responded with the most enthusi­asm was Tommy Shaw. "MTV's opinion on this was that he was the right artist to go with. If you have someone there who doesn't want to be there, it's going to be painfully obvious. It could spoil a very good evening," Rachlin said. 
He said MTV first proposed John Cafferty, but MS officials turned down the proposal because of con­flicts with ano1ther Cafferty film. In February, Columbia Records Video taped a Cafferty concert at the Ritz in New York City and would notal­low another show to be filmed. 
MTV offered to buy the rights to the Columbia show and present it in connection with MS, Rachlin said, but MS officials insisted that the April concert be taped. 
The Fixx also had recently taped a show and could not perform for MS. 
"We were designing a program to give something back to the students. I really don't believe that the stu­dents who participated in all the events did it for the concert," said Noyes of MS, which plans to to ex­pand the second campaign. 
But Steve Smith, chairman at Mic­higan, advises, "If they are going to get 120 schools next fall, they are going to have to get one of the top five acts." 


~i~~~_<>__i_ll___t____________________Fri-da-y,~Ap-ril-19_,_198-5--pa-ge-8 
Plight of American Indians is too often forgotten 
Through newspapers and television, our at­tention is directed to certain "removed" is­sues for a short time. Conditions that many American Indians must endure today receive even fewer headlines than those of the starv-
Pete Manzo father of the Man 
ing and impoVl·rished in our cities, but, like conditions in Appalachia, these problems need great attention. 
In the post office the other day, I read the name of an t:quipment manufacturer -"Silent Sioux Corporation." lbe title wa.~ ironic -was it assumed innocently or wa.~ the corporation owned hy Sioux who chose that name for its symholism? Like most American Indians, the Sioux arc indeed silent and forgotten. 
r 
r fortunately for me, a friend of IT'ine who is
, 
<>glala Lakota Sioux was not silent. Like most ~ people, hefore I met him my knowledge of r American Indians consisted only of what 1 r learned through hooks and movies. The false 
r 
characterizations ofalmost all movies and the cursory treatment of most hooks are very mis­representative of the Sioux's true history and especially neglectful of their present situa­tion. !learned a great deal from my friend, but my greatest learning experience was a visit with him to the Pine Ridge Reservation in South Dakota. 
'!be Pine Ridge Reservation is the result ofa tragic history too long to be properly treated here. It can be summed up as subjugation and domination by the newcomers. White men reflected, and continue to reflect, an ignor­ance and lack of respect for the culture and integrity of the American Indian peoples. They were forced off their lands, and white men watched them be divided among others (an affront to their religious beliefs a.'> well as a deprivation). 
Government policy, in administrations as early as President Jefferson's, advocated ex­termination in ca.~es, and this was vigorously pursued against Plains tribes like the Sioux and those ofthe Southwest (at the cost ofover S1,000,000 per dead "Indian"). The remnants were confined to reservations administered by the federal government, despite their sov­ereign status, which is guaranteed and represented in treaties. 
Pine Ridge received recognition a.o; the home of 1960 Olympic I0,000 meter gold medalist Billy Mills and through the activities of the American Indian Movement, most notably a shoot-out with FBI agents at Wounded Knee. (Russell Means, a leader of the movement, spoke on campus last spring.) 
In spite ofsuch intermittent attention, Pine Ridge is a forsaken place which suffers from much more than neglect. The land is visibly inferior to that of farmers off the reservation. Most of it is infested by prairie dogs, which makes raising both crops and cattle impossible. Unemployment is between 85 and 90 percent. On other reservations the rate is much lower but still higher than can be found elsewhere. Those able to find employ­ment work for the tribe or work seasonally on road repair crews for the state. A great num­ber of yol!ths join the military, but most of 
• these return to the reservation after their duty is over. 
Life off the reservation is a difficult adjust­ment for most. After being raised in a removed and familial environment, they are confronted with prejudice and curiosity and must cope with foreign speech, habits and values. They are often unequipped for this challenge be­cause ofinadequate education and because of communication skills poorly suited to the dominant culture's requirements. 
The reservation may be the most com­fortable environment for American Indians, but it is not a healthy one. There is a high rate of alcoholism and substance abuse. Adults drink, and younger people also smoke mari­juana and "huff gas," inhaling ga.o;oline fumes from cars. The suicide rate on reservations is three times the national average, and the rate for accidental deaths is ten times greater than average. 
1t is not a very hopeful environment in which to grow up. There is a lack ofadult lead­ership. The older people are caught between worlds in a way; their old values are not respected by the dominant outside world, whose values they in turn reject. The older people who remember the traditions and the languages are dying off, and those remaining are not passing the knowledge along. The young grow up in a vacuum filled with the despair that comes with unemployment, sub­stance abuse, suicide, accidental death and 
even ..:orruption within the tribal govern­ment. 
In spite of all this, the people I met at Pine Ridge were hard-working; many were very gifted and all displayed the sense of humor that would seem to be essential for dealing with their situations. lbe Oglala Lakota, like other tribes, have made heroic efforts to preserve tradition and to provide hope and the proper training for their people. lbeir suc­cess is commendable, and these efforts con­tinue. While at times it may appear that many tribes like the Oglala Lakota are in danger of dying out, they will continue to preserve their remarkably strong identity a.~ a people. lbey have refused to be defeated in even the worst times. 
As members ofthe dominant society, we all bear responsibility for the treatment the American Indian tribes have received and for their present status. These nations have been subjugated to conditions comparable with many Third World countries. There are exam­ples oftribes which are getting along well, but they are too few. Instead of helping, our soci­ety forgets them, while our government gives them barely enough sovereignty to hang themselves. Remembering these things should cause us all to raise our eyebrows the next time we hear someone point to reserva­tions as examples ofsocialist failure, as former Secretary Watt once did. Their failure is our failure. 
Pete Manzo is a senior g(JI!ernment major at Notre Dame and is a regular Viewpoint col­umnist. 

Communication contrasts mar Beaux Arts Ball 
While attending the recent Beaux Arts Ball, I began thinking about an unusual topic here at Notre Dame: communication. I was watch­ing communication occur hetween members of the Beaux Arts Ball Committee, who were taking tickets at the door, and members of 
Charles Boudreaux only solitaire 
Notre Dame Security, who were helping with crowd control. To observe actual communication between members of a stu­dent organization and campus authorities came as an unusual, yet welcome shock, espe­cially in light of the poor communication that occurred earlier in the week. 
Several days before the ball, the Beaux Arts Ball Committet· authorized its publicity people to paint sidewalks with various "red" cat<.·hwords in addition to the posters and table tents that were already up. 
This form ofadvertisement was, at the lt-ast, 
in questionable taste; given the "Pangborn" 
red-paint graffiti that occurred during the past 
year, painting the sidewalks showed poor 
judgment on the Committee's part. 
I believe the University's response also demonstrated poor judgment. University Vice President for Resident Life john Goldrick did meet with student representatives of the 
Doonesbury 
American Institute of Architecture Students and did allow the ball to run on schedule, both of which are points to his credit. However, he also refused to let architecture students clean up the paint themselves, although such an of­fer was made. 
I have to wonder if he understood (although he was told) that the paint used was water-soluble tempera paint. lbe situation became even more ironic when one considers that a similar paint job wa.~ done the previous day and the snow's washing it away neces­sitated a re-application. 
Rather than let the students clean it up themselves (a relatively painless and inexpen­sive alternative,) Goldrick deemed it a job for the Maintenance Department who, in turn, called in 20,000-pound water-spraying trucks. 
The spraying, which ran into "hundreds of dollars," is being billed in turn to the Beaux Arts Ball Committee. 
1cannot but help imagine what the ideal se­quence of communication could have been. Ideally, the student~ would have remembered the graffiti incident from last year and called Student Affairs to make sure that this advertis­ing alternative was admissable. Given that such a call did not occur, the administration, on finding the paint offensive, would have contacted the student president of the Ameri­can Institute of Architecture Students and ex­pressed dissatisfaction. The AlAS president would have then contacted the Beaux Arts Ball Committee. who would have told him or 



.JlNfJ I f}()N'f01REIIIHAT YOfJ THINKABOUTn;at:4Y?I ft&L_ (j(XlJR/€HTN~ /(}J(J(/UJVlT I'M5AYING? I'MI...YINGIN 
(}(P.;, &XCIJ5& 
A FWL-OF HEJN£K£N BY 

010/CE,JACK! IM ENTI­TLEIJ! ETHIOPIA IS !KJTMYF74U/..T! 

her that the paint was tempera and they would 
take care ofit. 
Such a resolution could have ideally led to a set of guidelines for campus advertising. lbe paint would have been gone by morning, the Beaux Arts Ball would not have taken such a heavy loss, and, rather than appearing as the "big meanie" in the proceedings, the adminis­tration could have quietly resolved the prob­lem. 
As far a.'i matters actllally went, I believe that communication didn't occur. 
1can see no reason for the University's con­tracting with a commercial firm to remove paint that could have been removed by the students responsible for it. 
I cannot understand why the bill should go to a student organization in the first place; it seems to me that the University spent money unnecessarily and pa.~sed the bill to the AlAS, an organization ill-equipped to handle finan­cial burdens to which they never agreed. 
By allowing the Beaux Arts Ball Committee to take care ofthe matter, the lJniversity could have encouraged students to take responsibil­ity upon themselves; instead, it chose to finan­cially handicap the AlAS. 
I contrast the paint problem with the conduct of Notre Dame Security and Beaux Arts Ball Committee members last Friday. Se­curity and the Beaux Arts ticket takers worked together to keep the crowd under control. 
Security members watched side doors, helped to eject gate-crashers, and one officer 
Garry Trudeau 


even tried to open windows to provide a little 
more ventilation. No "incidents" were re­
ported and "Paint the Town Red" seemed to 
go off enjoyably for those who attended. 
In retrospect, I would hope that both the 
administration and the AlAS -and all student 
organizations, for that matter -would learn to 
communicate more openly. 
If the administration does not play the 
"heavy," perhaps students would be more 
willing to think before acting and check with 
the administration if questions arise. If stu­
dents think farther ahead, the administration 
will have less rea.~on to be frustrated. 

lbe Beaux Arts Ball is a valid attempt to pro­vide an alcohol-free social alternative on campus. In order to make the new alcohol policy work, the administration and the stu­dents nt•ed to develop non-judgmental com­munication skills. 
'!be "heroes and villains" spirit must change if the campus is going to be a commu­nity. The object of community, after all, is to make life as plea.~ant and worthwhile as possi­ble for students and administrators alike. I plan to attend the Charity Ball this weekend; with luck, perhaps this fledgling social alterna­tive will not be handicapped by another mis­carriage ofcommunication. 
Charles Boudreaux is a junior Program of Liberal Studies major and a regular View­point columnist. 
Quote of the day 
"A man can be destroyed but not defeated." 
Ernest Hemingway 

"ie~P-_O_i_n_t~---------------------------------------------Fr_id_a~y_,A_p_r_n_t9_;_1_9_85___P_a_g__e9 
There may even be some Roman Catholics here 
Many times in the past year I have been prompted to respond to individuals who ex­hibit fallacious argumentation and express in­accurate characterizations when raising 
John O'Callaghan guest column 
objections to the teachings of the Roman Catholic Church on "contemporary" moral is­sues. 
Unfortunately, each time I begin to compose my response, a very strange phantas­magoria attacks me. My mind becomes befuddled with images of myself on a horse somewhere in Spain. I appear to be charging at, and retreating from, a windmill as I attempt to joust with its ever moving arms. 
The only cure I have found for this unfor­tunate condition has been a cold shower and a casual re-examination of my collection of "The Far Side" comic strips. 
I have of late, however, happened upon an explanation ofmy befuddlement. It is not with these individuals that I should debate, but with my "Many Catholic" Church. This heretofore unknown church seems to consist ofbelievers called "many Catholics" and is or­ganized into basic units or parishes called "some Catholics." It does not seem to be a sep­arate church, but actually a sect of the Roman Catholic Church in America. 
Just as an aside, I will refer in this column to 
the Roman Catholic Church in America. The 
American Catholic Church is a nonexistent 
creature. 

I am at somewhat ofa greater disadvantage· in debating with the teaching authority ofthe "Many Catholic" Church than are its members debating with the teaching authority of the Roman Catholic Church. This unfortunate cir­cumstance arises precisely because the Roman Catholic Church has a teaching au­thority whose appellations are the pope and the Magisterium. 
I, on the other hand, cannot seem to locate the headquarters of the "Many Catholic" Church, nor any "some Catholics" parishes. I have found no explications in encyclical form of the teachings of the "Many Catholic" Church and I have no idea in whom the teach­ing authority of the "Many Catholic" Church is centered. 
Is it possible that its teaching authority is centered upon people known as "many theologians"?! certainly hope not. The at­tempt to find "many theologians" who agree upon any particular interpretation ofCatholic dogma or even upon the distinction between dogma and theology is like the attempt to get certain Domers to take a shower between their athletic excursions and their excursions to the dining hall. 
Is it possible that the teaching authority of the "Many Catholic" Church is centered in any individual with whom I wish to argue? 
Now this is an i'Ilteresting question. For the 
sake ofargument, let us refer to such an indi­
vidual as Arius. (One can find an interesting 
discussion of Arius and the futurist fallacy in 
John Courtney Murray's The Problem of 
God.) Let us also suppose that Christ did not 
say to the apostle Simon: 
"You are Peter and on this rock I will build 
my Church" (Mt. 16:18). Let us suppose in­
stead that he said: 
"We the people ofthe Democratic Catholic Church, in order to form a more perfect union, establish justice, insure domestic tran­quility, and provide for the common defense, do ordain and establish this constitllltion for the Democratic Catholic Church." 
In addition, let us assume that in the recent 
elections 50 percent of the Roman Catholics 
in America, and 65 percent of those who 
voted, voted Arius into the office of District 
Pope for the United States of America. This 
voter turnout is certainly a good turnout for 
the United States, and 65 percent of the vote 
definitely constitutes a landslide victory. 
There are between 40 and 50 million 
Roman Catholics in the America so Arius can 
lay claim to representing approximately 1.7 to 
2.2 percent of the 750 million Roman Cat­holics worldwide. Even ifhe won 100percent of the vote in an election in which 100 per­cent of Catholics in the United States voted, Arius would still represent only 5.3 to 6.6 per­cent of Roman Catholics worldwide. I invite anyone to check my math for mistakes. 

P.O.BoxQ 
MS victim wants to give a perspective on disease 
DearEditor: 
As a survivor of multiple sclerosis I would like to send my thanks to all of you who worked so hard to raise money for the Na­tional Multiple Sclerosis Society. And, if you will indulge me, I would also like to elaborate on the definition of MS so as to impress on all of you the results ofyour efforts. 
MS is primarily a demyelinating disease of the central nervous system. To understand this, picture yellow pac-men nibbling away at the myelinsheaths but leaving the axons in­tact. The broken-down myelin is then removed by scavengers and replaced by astrocytes and it is these cells that form the scarring and sclerosis. The scarring causes de­fective nerve conduction within the central nervous system. 
There it is. A definition so far removed from your world by the very words used to describe the disease. But it is not so far away. If you were born and raised in the northern United States, your chances ofcontracting MS are high, above 40 per l 00,000. The chances are greater if you are female, and the median age ofonset is thirty. 
For seven years before I was thirty, the only doctors I saw were for the purpose of the an­nual physical. I lifted weights and went to my aerobics class faithfully. Then, six months past my thirtieth birthday, I woke to find my legs numb and spastic. I thought they had wiped out polio. Could I have spinal tumor? Why couldn't I walk? 
I regained my walk within four weeks which was followed by another bout, this time more severe. The numbness ascended to the waist and the sensation of passing water was absent. Muscle spasms were so severe I would pray to die if only for some relief. I had no sense ofbalancesince the disease also affected the cerebellum. Fatigue was so great I would sleep an average of 15 hours per day. 
For others affected, visual acuity is wor­sened ifnot lost. Others are incontinent. Some cannot control the shaking whenever there is effort. And some never recover or experience the remission. 
I guess the worst part of having. MS is the slow realization that your body no longer can ~onform to the real nine-to-five world. Poten­tial employers are happy to see us help our­selves but not at their expense. 
What I am trying to say to all ofyou is MS is more than just a good cause. Although the concert will be your immediate reward, the one that will mean the most to me will be the one we have to wait for -a cure. And if the monies you have raised this year produce anything less, don't give up -do it again next year! 
Stephanie Granfors Wabash, Indiana 
Some of different taste pick Shaw over others 
DearEditor: 

And the drum roll please... Hooray! It's not 
Madonna! 

We're talking Tommy Shaw here, granted 
not listed on the pop "top 5," but there are 
many students here whose musical interests 
transcend Billboard's top 40 list. 
We acknowledge that everyone's musical tastes differ, but anyone with undivided loyalty to Madonna and Bruce Springsteen, one who considers Shaw as the guy "whoused to play guitar for Styx," has questionable qualifications for writing such an article as Amy Stephan did. 
Shaw is not mediocre at best, just look at the 
recent success of his first solo album, not to 
mention the outrageous success of such Styx 
albums as Grand Illusion and Pieces of Eight, 
on which Shaw played a major part with sing­
ing, writing and guitar work. 
Shaw is a class act, Thanks MlV! 
Why don't people go see the concert, what 
the heck. it's free, right? You might even like 
it! 
Mark P. Gingalewski GregZumbiel MattEaken NotreDameSeniors 
Students should unite over ND Credit Union 
DearEditor: 
In a world filled with poverty, sickness and war it is not surprising to find a bourgeois or­ganizational conspiracy dedicated to the oppression of the working class. Yes, once again, those imperialistic enemies of the people, those who control the Notre Dame Credit Union, have duped the masses by a con-
It is thus obvious that if we assume the "Many Catholic" Church consists solely of all the Roman Catholics in the United States, the teaching authority of the "Many Catholic" Church does not account for much of the teaching authority of the Roman Catholic Church. 
It boggles the mind to consider the fact that between 700 and 710 million Roman Cat­holics live outside the borders of the United States. There are Roman Catholics in Europe, Africa, South America, and Central America. There are Roman Catholics in the Far East, the Near East, and the Middle East. And yes its true, there are even Roman Catholics "huddled along our borders for warmth" in the Great White North · Canada! 
There may even be some Roman Catholics in America. This claim is somewhat dubious, however, since there are "many Catholics," myself not included, who maintain that there are "many Episcopalians" but few Roman Cat­holics in the United States. 
In conclusion, my opponents may or may not have been educated in parochial schools, but they need not be so terribly parochial when theysituate the Roman Catholic Church in the present temporal, social, political, and intellectual climate of the United States. 
john P. O'Callaghan is a graduate student atNotre Dame. 
spiracy ofsilence. A conspiracy which strives 
to obscure the essence of the matter, which seeks to conceal the wood from the trees. But, as the English say, facts are stubborn things and cannot be ignored, for the simple truth is that members with a share draft balance ofless than S500 will be paying an exploitative ser­vice charge of S2 per month. 
Apparently the Notre Dame Credit Union thinks that a small notice of a "change" printed on page 2 ofits n•ever-read newsletter is sufficient warning to its members. If you currently have a share draft account at the Notre Dame Credit Union and, like most stu­dents, plan on forgetting about it during the summer --take heed! Unless you've got S500 to leave the Credit Union for June, july, and August, expect to kiss S6 goodbye. As Marx would say, "Students of the world unite! You have nothing to lose but your dividend." 
CJ. Elitz 
Sorin Hall 




P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer IS the Independent newpaper publiShed by the students of the University of Notre Dall•,· duLac and Satnt Mary"s College. It does not necessarily reflect the polic1es of the .Jdm1n1strat1on of e1ther inst1tut1on. The news is reported as accurately and as 0b1ect1vely as poss1ble. Uns1gned editorials represent the opin10n of a maJOrity of the Ed1tonal Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the v1ews of the1r authors Column space IS available to all members of the community. and the free express1on of varymg op1n1ons on campus. through letters. IS encouraged 
Editorial Board 
Ed1tor-tn·Ch1ef Managmg Ed1tor News Ed1tor News Ed1tor. Samt Mary's Execut1ve Ed!lor Sports Ed!lor Accent Ed1tor V1ewpo1nt Ed1tor Photography Ed1tor Copy Ch1ef 
Sarah E. Hamilton 
Amy Stephan 
Ketth Hamson Jr. 
Dan McCullough 
Theresa Guartno 
Jeff 81umb 
Mary Healy 
Joe Murphy 
Peter C Laches 
Frank Ltpo 

Department Managers 
Busmess Manager Davtd Stephentlch Advert1stng Manager Anne Cull1gan Controller. 81/l Htghducheck _Systems Manager Mark 8 Johnson Product1on Manager John A Mennell 
Founded November 3, 1966 








~ 
, ~ 
r ~ 
r 
' 
r 
r 
' ~ 
r 
r Michele r McKeever 
Theatre review 

Where do I go after graduation? What am I doing here? Does any of this really mean anything anyway? 'Ibis weekend St. Ed's hrings such douhts and anxieties to center stage in thdr production of"Moonchildren." 
'Ibe men ofSt. Ed's couldn't have timed their production more: perfectly: as the academic year draws to a close and a wave of confusion and cynicism is creeping across campus, hitting especially hard those who leave this haven of academia for the much dreaded hut seldom spoken of"real world." Moonchildren doesn't offer the audience ready-made answers, hut it does provide valuahle insight along with the comforting reassurance that you are not alone. 
The moonchildren are eight college students, mainly seniors, whom we watch as they prepare to make the plunge into adult life. Their landlord, Mr. Willis (Bill Casey), warns them near the play's close of"how things are out there." llnheknownst to him, the transition has already begun. Reality imposes itselfon the moonchildren in the 
L,..
..• I 
forms of war and death. The students also 
have much to lc::arn from their interaction 
with their typically hostile neighhors. 
'Ibe simple set, the kitchen ofa run-down student apartment, complete with a haunting Jim Morrison likeness, 1984 quotes, and a "God is groovy" hanner, transmits the princi· pie values held hy the group. lbe most pressing question is how these values will stand up to the inevitahle challc::nge they await. 
'Ibe VietNam war symholizes the "system" ofvalues this freespirited group abhors. When Boll (Fred Nelson) is drafted, "the system" doesn't even spell his name cor· rectly, and for the remainder of the play he answers only to "Job." Boll feels a strong enough conviction against the war to go demonstrate. He gets sidetracked on the way, however, and tells his girlfriend Kathy (Colleen Cotter) that he plans on trying to pass his physical so he can hecome an en· gineer in the army and then move on to "plastic suburbia." 
Bob's turnabout is an indication ofhow precariously balanced the entire value system of the moonchildren really is. Soon they will be forced to test their values to see ifthey can stay afloat in the real world. It's an all or nothing proposition though, for there'll be no lifeboat. This aspect is especially telling for our generation which is taking its place in a world under the shadow ofa nuclear disaster. 
Moonchildren is not pure drama though. Ughthearted fun is amply provided by the whimsical interplay between Mike (Doug 
Photos by Phil Deeter 
Regan) and Cootie (Joe McGrath). Their sarcastical wit and one-liners build upon each other in a way reminiscent of Hawkeye and B.J. Ruth (Robin McHugh) acts as the perfect referee, sometimes joining in their spoofs, but stepping in at the right time to remind them a jokecan go too far. The friction between Mike, Ruth, and Cootie produces an energy which is delightfully passed on to the audience. 
In all, the play's thought-provoking drama is lightly seasoned with laughs and tempered with with meaning. This delicate mixture combined with the overwhelming relevance which it has for our community makes Washington Hall the place to be this weekend. 

Friday, April 19, 1985 -page 10 -11 
The soul-drying effect: when insecurity gets you down 

from the inside, I'm willing to bet on the zombie who isn't even listen­ting through the winter is not the
Rev. 
that insecurity is the common ing. Insecurity is in the rage against love you need for getting through a Robert enemy. In matters ofinsecurity, I'm injustice that you feel at the indif­lifetime in the real world after self­not just an armchair expert be­ference ofthe band that keeps confidence comes more easily. 
cause, baby, I've been there myself. playing cha-chas after you've told The important thing to know All ofus need a place in the sun; it them you're hot to rhumba. Rejec­about insecurity is that e:verybody 
Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
scares us to see that the best places tion, and the fear ofrejection, make has some. I remember the student in the sun are hard to get, because cowards ofus all. The terminal state body president, years ago, who Insecurity is more than a teenage the early birds camped there first. ofcowardice is when you stop woke me up in the middle ofthe
Y
ears ago, when the giant red­woods were still saplings, I had girl making a fool ofherself over a · The struggle to succeed turns out trying, or never bother to try at all. night to lament that he didn't know 
a girlfriend whom I dated regularly. wh'o he was. He had a 3.9 average 
guy she isn't in love with. Insecurity to be the struggle to survive. The I know the feeling ofbeing is a young, pretty woman on a phrase that sums up our efforts is tongue-tied when the poetry I wish and an acceptance into med school. 
We weren't deathlessly in love, barstool, wearing too much the ratrace. Life sometimes looks to speak is on the tip ofmy tongue. I The immediate world knew who he but we weren't just buddies who makeup, laughing too quickly at bad like a dog-eat-dog affair, but I'm not ·know the glazed looks that come was, and his fame was made known met to drink coke either. Each ofus jokes, wanting desperately to be going to get into that kind of over eyes to show me that I'm to the alumni: Mr. Dynamic Person­found joy and contentment in the liked. Insecurity is six students cynicism. I've already used enough boring. I know the dinners when, ality who took the campus by other's company. Each ofus felt watching television, chugging cliches. out ofdesperation at needing to be storm. He didn't know who he was, peace of mind in seeing the other beers, sorry for themselves because Insecurity, I think, is the emotion noticed, I blurt out something and was feeling insecure. Even the frequently. As a couple, we had a they don't have dates, too unsure of that does us in when we discover inappropriate, and then wish to big shots at their most charismatic better time than we would have had the ground rules to leave the gang. we're liviing in an indifferent uni­God I had cut my tongue offbefore moments looks for signs that you 
as free agents, me as a lone wolf, she Insecurity is an attractive woman verse. When tlhe going gets tough, I ignored lincoln's advice: "It is approve and applaud th{:m. The as a wallflower. We weren't so 
wearing a Gucci pants suit to a they say, the tough get goi111g. better to remain silent, and be matinee idols stare at thdr reflec­exclusive that we never went on cookout so that she can be the Hemingway, experiencing the thought a fool, than to speak and tions in the mirror, worried that other dates, but it was understood reigning queen. Insecurity is the cosmic indifference, wrote stories remove all doubt." That's all well they are slipping. 
that for the tribal occasions, we had lies the good ol' boys tell while ofheroes who faced the nothing­and good for Mr. Lincoln, but you The blind can lead the blind, if already filled in the other's dance they're getting drunk. Insecurity is ness oflife with the kind ofcourage have to take the chance ofbeing insecurity's the problem. Dropping calendar. staying too late at a party that called "grace under pressure." The thought a fool, if your soul isn't out or showing offshouldn't be 
you're not enjoying because you're indifference I'm describing is more going to dry up in silence, and die. necessary, unless you've written
Eventually, we came to a time of trauma. She demanded attention sure they'll talk about you when temporary. It means that the best I've seen the shadows ofin­yourselfoff as a nerd. You can't be a you're gone. companies don't owe you a job. The security lengthen in students' eyes nerd unless your parents were
that we never agreed to in the When you begin cataloguing stage doesn't have to make you a as some ofthe best kids in the nerds before you. In reaching out
original contract. When she saw me with somebody else, she made a examples, insecurity begins to look star. The world doesn't promise you world wonder: "What's wrong with for friends, you fl)ay make a million point ofletting them know I was like the second scapegoat on which the lifestyle you've grown to love. me? The phone never rings. Doesn't pratfalls. All the nice people will only on loan. She embarrassed me all kinds of klutziness gets blamed. You can really get through college anyone care that I'm alive?" Every find the pratfalls endearing, because by competing with anyone she saw The bores with large egos who are without having a date. You can go student has a few friends, but they already know what it feels like me talking to, making it clear to always showing offget excused as to parties where no one cares if sometimes they're like the blinded when you hit the floor. A sad public nuisances on the ground that you're having a good time. In the raccoon and the bristly porcupine epitaph could be written under the
them that in my life, she played first they're insecure. some revisionist deep dark night of the soul, nobody can get close to, as in the cum laude on hundreds of
fiddle. historian has probably written a Fitzgerald wrote, it's always three fable: creatures with crippled egos diplomas: "This student !hated
I complained to her girlfriend: book attributing the crimes of Hit­o'clock in the morning. That's when who help each other to survive Notre Dame because he was inse­
"Doris is acting like a jealous wo­man. She makes me feel suffocated." ler to the insecurity ofhis child­indifference can be so total, it feels college. Some couples want to get cure!" It could be written as part of The girlfriend said: "Don't you hood. The case could be made that like an art form. married because, finding love, the transcript: "This student finally the heartbreak ofinsecurity has Insecurity is that sob ofselfpity they're desperate to hang on to it, learned that insecurity is part of
understand? She's not sure ofyou. been greatly exaggerated. in your throat as your best afraid ofloneliness. You try to ex­being fully human, even for Cat­
She's having a terrible time ofin­security." As one looking at the problem wisecrack of the evening is wasted plain that the love you use for get-holics!" 
Movies 
•This weekend the Student Activities Board presents "The Cotton Club," the highly-regarded look at a Depression-era nightclub that gave birth to some of the hottest jazz -and the most notorious criminals -the world has ever known. Richard Gere, Gregory Hines and Diane Lane, among others, star in this in­toxicating tale ofpassion, power and music. The movie will be shown tonight and Saturday night at 7, 9:15, and 11:30 in the Engineering Auditorium. Admis­sion is SI.50. 
Richard Gere and Diane Lane star in "Cotton Club" 
•Tonight at 7:30 in the Annenberg Auditorium "PeppermintSoda" will be shown for S2.50. The story centers on the friends, family, classes, vacations, sulks, sexual misconceptions, pop records, bad grades, adventures and misadventures ofa French-Jewish schoolgirl from summer to summer in the epochal year of 1963. 
Theater 

•The Southhold Dance Theatre presents Spring Concert '85 Saturday night in the Morris Civic Auditorium. This entertaining program will begin at 8 p.m. Saturday and 2 
p.m. Sunday. 


Art 

•The Second Senior Comprehensives will be displayed at the Hammes Galleries at Saint Mary's from 9:30a.m. to 3 p.m. Friday and l to 3 p.m. Sunday. Special arrangements may be made be calling the gallery at 284­4655. 

Nazz 

•Get to know F .L.O.C. (the Farm Labor Organizing Committee) tonight at 9 p.m. The group will feature singers and instrumen­talists. 
•Tomorrow 
night an evening ofsong with Shawn Ridley on the guitar begins at 8. 

•Fun! 
Fun! Fun! From 9 to I tomorrow night there will be a party sponsored by the Black Cultural Arts Center in the Chatauqua ballroom. 



Corky Siegel willplay tonight atDuke's 
•Blues-rocker Corky Siegel will celebrate the release ofhis 15th album, Goodbye California, and his 20th an­niversary in music tonight and tomor­row night at Duke's, 52303 Emmons Road, 9:30 and 11 p.m. 
•An 
Evening withJ.S. Bach will be presented by Indiana University's Early Music Institute at 8 p.m. tonight in O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's. The program is to honor the 300th anniversary of the birth ofJohann Sebas­tian Bach, and will include performances by the institute's Pro Arte Singers and Baroque Orchestra. 

•Notre 
Dame's department of music will present faculty members Laura Klugherz and Karen Buranskas in a duo violin and cello recital this Sunday, at 4 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium. The concert is free and open to the public. 


joance [ll 
•This Saturday night all are encouraged to attend Notre Dame's Olarlty Ball, which promises to be an evening ofexcitement and elegance. Two live bands will be featured at the dance from 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. at Stepan Center. The Catholic Charity Relief Fund is sponsoring the event to aid the hungry in Ethiopia. 
Mass 
•The celebrants for Mass at Sacred Heart Church this weekend will be: FatherJohn Kurtzke at 5:15p.m. (Saturday 
night vigil). ­Father Andre Leveille at 9 a.m. Father Danieljenky at 10:30 a.m. Father Daniel jenky at 12:15 p.m. 


-
Sports Briefs 
The Saint Mary's softball team split a doubleheader at Grace College yesterday. The Belles won the first game, 1 '5-13. before losing, 6-5, to the Lancers. Details will appear in '!be Observer next week. -The Observer 
The ND Women's Track Club is looking for 
volunteers to help at its home meet tomorrow. Anyone who is inter­ested should call Susan at 283-4286 or Anne at 283-2646. -The Observer 
The ND Women's Soccer Club will play host 
to the Irish Invitational Tournament tomorrow from 10 a.m. to 4:30 
p.m. on the Stepan fields. -The Obsen•er 

AnTostal slam dunk contest spaces are still 
available for the I 0-foot competition. Anyone who is interested should call Dan Sullivan at 283-1 184 or Bob Spoonmore at 283­1307. -The Obsen•er 
Friday, April 19, 1985 -page 12 
AnTostal mud volleyball schedules are posted outside the student government offices on the second floor of LaFortune. Games will continue tomorrow and Sunday. For more information, call Janet at 277-3967 or Matt at 283-2465. -The Observer 
The AnTostal golf tournament will be held 
on Tuesday at 1 I a.m. at the Burke Memorial Golf Course. Any pairs who are interested in playing in the tournament should call 283­2021 or 283-2013. An entrance fee of S1 will be charged, and prizes will be awarded. -The Obsen1er 
The Irish Guard will hold an organizational meeting Thursday at 4 p.m. on Green Field. Anyone who is interested in trying out should attend. For more information, call Chris at 283­1 783. -The Observer 
WVFI Sports still has a number of openings for on-air tal­ent and a football statistician. Anyone who is interested should call Pete Pranica at 283-1938 or 239-5379.-The ObsenJer 
Thanks to you ... it works ... for 
ALL 
OF US 
Unitedway
• 


Tb(' Ohsert•er Nolrl' Dame offic..T. located on tht: third lloor of LaFortune Studcnl Ccmcr. a<.:n·pls dass•ficd advnlising from') a 111. until 1 p m. ,\londa\ through Frida\· 7be Ohserr•er Saini Man·, offilT. lo<.:alcd on lhl· third tloor of llaggar Coll<:gl· Cl'nlt'r. anTpls dassifil'lb from I 2 ..~0 p 111 umil .~ p m .. ,\I on· dav though Frida\· lll·adlinc l<>r llt'XHla\ dassitinb is .~ p.m All dassificds must he prl·paid.l'i!hn in pt·rson or In mall ( :hargc is 10 lTllh rwr fin· charal··
Classifieds 
lt:rs n dav. 

Found: One pa1r of Italian brown leather  Female Roommate needed atartlng  $$NEED GRAD. TICKETS!$$ CALL  FURRIIRRIIIIIIRRRRRRRRRRRKINS  You may be man's best fnend, But tf  
NOTICES  gloves. To cla1m call 239-5162  May 1. Caatle Point Apia. call 2n-1392 evenlnga.  MARK OR GEORGE 277-6464  ONLY ONE MORE MONTH  you're bad I'm gonna send you to the School lor Doga!  
Lost: Blue 1ean jacket at a oil-campus  DO YOU HAVE ANY EXTRA GRAD  HAPPY HOUR,Friday·s BIT 3·6pm.AU  
TYPING CAll CHillS 234-811117  party on 3/29. Please call Jean at 284­5024  HELP!! NEED 1 OR 2 GRAD TIX, TO·  TICKETS?? I ONLY NEED 2. CALL TERRI 2n· 7455.  used paperbacks 50/ oll,atl new books 201 oH. Become intoxtcated w/knowledge  MARK RAMIREZ  
GETHER OR SEPARATE. PLEASE  before the State makes this •llegel' Pan­ So, your almighty Phoenix Suns ended up  
WORDPIIOCEISINO • 2n-M45.  LOST: about 4 months ago. 1 pall of  CALL MARYA AT 1276 OR 1296: KEEP  doras Books,937 So.Bend Ave.233­ with the same season record as the  
GOVERNMENT HOMES from $1 (U repair). Al8o delonquenl lax property. Call 805-687-6000 Ex! GH-9834 lor •nlorma­lion. TYPING 2n-8534 al!er 5:30 Wordproceealng and Typing 272-8827 Word Proceu~ng and TyPing RllliUmes. Leners, Papers, Documents Call 234­2380 One U 5. do/1/JI wtll feed two Eth1op1ane a  glasses Wllh brown rim in a gray case. II lound please call at 2700. To whoever took my St. Augustine class ring, t know what you look like and so does Security. I adviSe you to return it soon, and av01d any ser1oua trouble. Alii want is my 11ng back. end I'll forget the whole !h1ng and so Will Security. You know where you took 11 from so you know where to return 11. I hope your fnend in Fisher reads this so that he can tell you, and save you from prosecution. FOUND: One women's h1gh school class ring w1th 1n1t1als MCH 1n81de. Found in McCandless Hall SMC Call Julie 284­ TRYING!! SALES ENGINEER. Utility and Industrial B01lers, Flwd Bed Boilers, Co-generation Systems. Waste Incineration. Pulverizers and Stokers-­Riley Stoker Corp., call 312-692-5050 R1de or Riders Needed lo Indianapolis 4/26 Call 3880 ROOMATES/ROOM WANTED: For the 85-86 school year. Preferably law school students. Call Jim al 283-1157. Need riders to COLUMBUS/OSU Thur 4/25. Need ride from WASH DC area or  ATIENTION Graduation tlx for ule, call Greg Wergeat3311. Muat aell aoon, will taka any reaaonable offer. PERSONALS OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N .. ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  2342. HELP!! NEED 1 OR 2 TIX, TOGETHER OR SEPARATE. PLEASE CALL MARYA AT 1276 OR 1296; KEEP TRYING II T1xfor Trip to White Sox-Yankee'a game April 26 Will be on sale lor $15 (includes bus, beverages and ticket) Sunday 1-6pm in LaFortune and leMans lobby and Mon­day from 6-8pm 1n LeMans lobby. Sponsored by SMC Senior Class  Cleveland Cava mBA HA HA HA HA HAPPY BIRTHDAY MARIA' RERA GRONER HAPPY 215T1 THE DUCK WISHES YOU THE BEST -YOU DESERVE fTI YOUR FRIENDSHIP MEANS 50 MUCH TO ME. LOOK OUT NYC, HERE WE COME MARIA GRONER HAPPY 21at BIRTHDAY! Sunday 11 her b•rthday, but shes accept­Ing phone calls and k1sses an weekend. For an appomlmenl catl284-5534. love, Cilt and El  
day  5418.  columbus Sun 4/28. Pat3660  Moonchildren  
MOONCHILDREN  CUSH· A: IT'S ONLY A TEST. B: DENT  
YOU CAN MAKE A DIFFERENCE! A !lend the ND/SMC Chanty Ball Salufday. Apr~l20 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. Stepan Center T1cke1s on sale 1n dorms and al La For1une record store. $6 llngle. $10 couple All welcome  LOST One Birthday Cake. Says "Happy B•rthday Ma11a. ·II lound call Mar~a at284­5534 • LOST: t foal my room, car, and even  WANTED Birthday w•shes and b1rthday k1sses. Call Maria FOR SALE  MOONCHILDREN MOONCHILDREN Joe McGrath Doug Regen Robin McHugh Mark McGovern Andy Barlow  Al1entlon Senlora Pre-Antostal Bash IS com•ng, watch th1s space for deta1ls to come. Back by popular demand' JIM TABOR CORE COURSE Player ol the week Jane Perry  SCHOOL WANTS YOU, THEY WANT YOU BAD' C: WE WONT EVEN THINK ABOUT C 0: GOOD LUCK AND GO FOR IT I! LOVE. THE FAMILY MAURA HURLEY THANKS FOR BEING SUCH A GOOD FRIEND! t HOPE I Al­WAYS WILL BE YOUR UTILE SISTER LOVE. ElllE BELL  
house keys...also there were two key  Colleen Coller  
TYPING· CALL ANDREA· 283-3880 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-70011. COLLEGIATE TYPING, MY HOME. 2n­3085 Be Smart!' Sell your texts and paperbacks lor SS before !he rushII M-F,B!T 12-4 pm. We also carry a Wide aaaortmenl ol Clill and Monarch Notes. Pandora Booka,937 5o Bend Ave.. I block lrom Corby's  cha1ns and a cleat lightener. II happened behmd lyons on Tuesday.l need em bad. REWARD·one ol my l11st born pups to wh0811er returns them' John al3592, 336 Mornssey FOR RENT Two room eff1aency. pnvate entrance, ullhlles pa1d 288-0955.  Be smart' Sell your class books before the rush. Mon.-Fri between 12 and 4. Save$ on paperbacks. F11: 3-6: 50/ oil used: 20/ oil new. PANDORA'S BOOKS, 937 So Bend Ave 233-2342 6 UNIT APARTMENT FOR SALE, NO­MEMORIAL AREA, EXCELLENT CON· DITtON 233-9728 232-4528 USED STEREO 35 wafts per channel amp, tuner. turntable, csbmet, 2 speakers. good sys­lem lor next year's quad. Call Steve at 2534.  Fred Nelson Sheila McDaniel Bill Casey Dean Ch<isly John Trusela Kevin Sandberg David Paul Tom Dunn Ray Wise MODNCHILDREN See them at Washmgton Halt 8 p.m. TONIGHT' HUNGRY? FREE DELIVERY CALL THE  Lavetta Willis-The Eng•neering GoddeS& oiPEI For Sale: Two Tommy Shaw Tlcketa. lront row. Only $75 lor pall. Call Sham at 6969 KEN KESEY AND THE MERRY PRANKSTERS invite all to allend THE ELECTRIC KOOL-AID ACID TEST at Stepan 1 on Sat. 5:30  DON'T MISS: THE MR CAMPUS COM­PETITION!! 8 PM THURS. OF AN lOS­TAL (SMC-ANGELA) KATE. HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!!! LOTS OF LOVE-GEORGE Hey Mlu Al1ractlon, We loved your alght·aeelng tour o1 Loulavllle and Atlanta--complete with right-hand turna and mlaaed expreea-ya. Walk Into any glaaa doora lalely? Do real woman go to alght lnnlnga of a baaeballll"me? Pleaaa, you glrla take the ahowera. Or perhapa we will while  
AVAILABLE FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR  YELLOW SUB 272-4453 MO-TH 8-11 pm  you go ahop for bathing autla. But  
NOTICE Sunday 11 Marta Oroner'a 21a1 Birthday. Pleaae nol•ce her at the bets !h11 weekend, or you can lust call her at 284-5534 and WISh her a happy one. Hey Truthaeeker Why haven't you called me yet!!!!!! l"m a1111 we111ng....your  · FIVE BEDROOM HOUSE COM­PLETELY FURNISHED. WASHER AND DRYERANDGARAGE CALL234-9364. RESPONSIBLE PERSON NEEDED TO SUBLET ONE BEDROOM APARTMENT AT CASTLE POINT, FULLY FUR­NISHED, JUNE TO AUGUST. t PAY FOR  FOR SALE component stereo system call Brian al 3186 82 Honda Civic, All, Cass Stereo. Greal MPG. 277-5725  FR-SA 8pm-1 am OFF-CAMPUS IS SPONSORING A BLOCK PARTY!! SAT.. 4/20 3pm-? EVERYONE WELCOME. QUESTIONS? CALL RACE 272·0734 Post Graduate Service Opportunity  PARTY PARTY PARTY Off-Campus Community presents: RudeFeet'85 51. louis Street Saturday, April 20 3p.m.-? A SOCIAL AlTERNATIVE FOR YOU  maybe we'll read War and Peace ln­atead. We may need plaatlc un-our chalra (maybe Sam doea), but-don't need plllo-on the floor to protect fal­ling dlaheal LOGAN VOLUNTEERS: Volunteers are still needed lor the CAM­ 
ATHEIST  PART OF THE RENT. CALL 239 7699  WOMEN'S CARE CENTER  POUTthiS weekend. Cal/ TOM (x2508) or  
,VEGETARIAN,PHYSICAL,FEMALE love, Mora  (OFFICE) OR 277 0960 (HOME) Apartment tn Ch1cago space avatlable  TICKETS  Pregnancy Help Center Counaellng Aaaoclale Program It you are concerned about women who  TAG HAPPY215TBIRTHDAYONTHE20TH!  KATHY (x3604) lor more information. Leave from Logan Center by 9 .am Sa!Ur· day: return Sunday afternoon  
May 30· Sep1.30 lor female. Share W11h  are exper1enc1ng a problem pregnancy,  
LOST/FOUND  two 84 NO grads. Nice sale ne•ghbor­hood.Call Cel1a 312-4n-9592 alter 10pm or Ma11cla11e 284-5484.  HEY SENIORSI NEED GRADUATION DESPARATELY!!!!! WILL PAY HUGE BUCKS'! PLEASE CALL MARIA ISERN ­4304.  the Women's Care Center has a program that may be be ol interest to you. We are opposed to abortion and want to help the woman facing a problem pregnancy with  ADS CANT GET LOST LIKE BALLONS CAN' LOVE.JAG  THIS IS DAY 368 ... AU th~ COLD iliER y~~ ~~ c1;,~k lor  

 APARTMENT IN CHICAGO-FEMALE  lile-sav•ng alternatives by offering her the  $3.00 at Mr. D's Cann•ng Factory Friday  
ROOMMATE NEEDED. BIG 2  NEED GRADUATION TICKETS (3)  love and support she may need to carry  11-3:00am. Danc1ng, D11nking, and Good  
LOST: ONE PAIR OF ITALIAN LEATHER  BEDROOM APARTMENT WITH BAY  REALLY BADLY • • PLEASE HELP.  her child to term. And we need your  T1mes!  
GLOVES, BROWN SIZE 9 REWARD.  WINDOW. LEASED-MAY UNTIL END  CALL MEL AT 283-3716. WILL EVEN  help. The Counseling Associate Program  60a PARTY ... 60a PARTY ...  
OF DECEMBER LINCOLN PARK. NO  PAY YOU FOR THEM II  is offered to college graduates interested  Gostar drop-outs UNITE• Isn't l•le eas1er?  
LOST: WEST'S BUSINfiSS LAW BOOK  NEIGHBORHOOD. 4 BLOCKS FROM  in counseling or soctal wad<. and able to  Bul let's not lorget to "go play around with  
SECOND EDITION AT LUNCH 4/11 AT  THE L. RENT AND UTIL  NEED 4 GRADUATION TIX. CALL  work at the Women's Care Center on a  it". Does anyone know how to program a  
SOUTH DINING HAll FROM ON TOP  237.50/MONTH FOR MORE INFO  KEVIN AT 287-6262 BUT ONLY AFTER  full-time. volunteer basis For more info,  60a PARTY ... 60a PARTY ...  computer that blows up when a certain  
OF THE CIOARETIE MACHINE. TO  CALLLONNI 2731  CALLING MEL FIRST!!  please call the Center al234-0363.  prolesser touches it???  
- THE "SCUMBAG" WHO "BORROWED" MY BOOK, PLEASE  NEED TO RENT A HOUSE THIS SUM­ NEED 2 GRAD TIX -Please call Mike al  YOU MAY NOT FEEL LIKE DOING IT,  60a PARTY  Welcome to Notre Dame Mom and  
RETURN IT TO THE SPOT WHERE  MER? STUDENTS SHOULDN'T HAVE  2263 anytime  BUT YOU'll BE GLAD YOU 0101!  April 1910pm-1:30  Dad... Thanks so much lor coming to  
YOU "SWINDLED" IT. IF YOU, THE  IT THIS GOOD. LARGE. 3 BDRM, 5 MIN  AN TOSTAL'S HANGOVER SK  Regma Basement  visit!!  
LOSER, HAS ANY CLASS, YOU WILL  FROM CAMPUS. NICEST IN TOWN.  GRADUATION TIX NEEDED  SATURDAY, APRIL27  $20.00 for Beet costume'!!  
RETURN IT. MY number IS ON THE  2n-6844.  Need three tix lor large lamily  STARTS AT 9;30  $1.00 admiSSIOn  II they're called the Danan· IRISH. !hen  
INSIDE OF THE BOOK IF YOU, THE  Call B11an at 1079 alter 10:30 pm.  SHOW UP TO REGISTER $1  why is one of them a SMCchick? Anyhow, 
LOW UFE CAN READ. I HAVE A TEST  Stra>ghl male needed for resort apartment  OUTSIDE STEPAN CENTER  Belh. CONGRATS! Love ya,  
ONTHE4/18.  near NOTRE DAME. Cloae lo everything  Scott  
LOST: General Blo text was removed from the far r1ght Side of me1n carrels on tile 1Oth lloor of the library Wed. evening. The return olth11 book 11 extremely Impor­tant as I have a lest next week' Call 3615  OPening May 1st or thereabouts lor sum­mer or longer Prefer professtonal . grad student . or medical type Pr~ced out of this world Call 233-5853 & aak lor TIM. SUMMER APT FOR RENT. TURTLE  HELP!! NEED 1 OR 2 GRAD TIX, TO­GETHER OR SEPARATE. PLEASE CALL MARYA AT 1276 OR 1296; KEEP TRYING!! HELPI!DESPERATEL Y NEED GRAD  AIRBAND reg•stration in AN TOSYAL ollice (2nd floor LaFortune) through Friday ATIENTION SPRING BREAKERS  60a PARTY April 1910 pm-1:30 Regina Basem£lnt $20.00 tor Baal costume !I! $1.00 adm•ssion  You can almost taste it now COME night of dancing, goss1p,& ecstacy April Friday 11:00 pmy to 2 a.m. qua Ballroom y tor thoae w/inv•les: party starts 2 hours earlier'  
ASAP il lound'  CREEK TOWNHOUSE AVAIL FROM  TIX (lOTS) • PLEASE CALL JULIE at  Bus A, the PARTY promised has arrived!  
MAY 21 TO AUG 31. CALL TERRI 2n­ 4354  Saturday, April 20 at around 4pm at 733  Dear Wally Happy 201h birthday Try  
Los! navy blue pull-over Windbreaker  7455.  St louis Slreel. Bus b may have had il  lor 2 the next decade Enjoy the  
made by Jos.Bank.losl on Saturday at the tennis courts. If found please call Joe  3ROOM MATE WANTED! to share NO  GRADUATION TICKETS NEEDED! Five ol !hem. For real money. Call 288-0330.  first, but A will have the best. Call AI at 232·5645 if you have questions.  WE WERE JUST SITIING AROUND  gets ana the Gonzo,Homer,Rosco,and VIC  
at3498  apl lor 85-86. Call Tim.2546.  Please.  TALKING WHEN ......we decided that, no!  
RUDEFEST '85  only doesn't basketball have to be violeni­ CONI RICH--Have a good lime this  
FOUND Grey Samsonlle suitcase found 1n N.Y.C on Bell Parkway during Easter Break. Su•lcase conta•n• clothing with "N.D. Baseball. on 11. For more INFO call  WANTED  Deaparately need Tommy Shaw lick· eta. Will pay good price. can Greg at 4010.  The Oil-Campus Council, in collaboration wilh The Rudes proudly present a gel­together to be remembered. On Saturday, April 20, at 51. Louis Street, the lestivit1es  IT DOESN'T HAVE TO BE GOOD. Ann Pett1fer and the Female Circumcisions. aka Michele, Dianne, Carolyn, Cindy, and Debbie, brought pacilist basketball to NO.  wilh Timo. Tell him I said good luck in play. C.C.  
loa! and Found al 239-5036.  INEED 3 GRADUATION TICKETS call  wilt begin at around 4pm. Music and load  April17, 1985 21-0 Not a victory for !heir  Happy Birthday Wee'  
CHAPIN al 1589 or 2793 anytime.  will also be present Remember, !hal's the  side, but lor peace.  
LOST:A PAir ol brown-lramed prescrip­ I NEED ORAD. TIXI  20th  
tion glassea(nol In caae) lost 4/12. If  Please call lisa al 3544.  HELP'! I NEED 1 GRAD TICKET--WILL  MAKE LOVE, NOT BASKETS. Thanks  
lound pleue call Ellie-1258.  PAY$$$!! CALL SUE 3843 PLEASE!!  YOCIUS is Atrocious.  girls.  
...............................................................  

The Observer Friday, April19, 1985-page 13 
Outfielder McGinnis has becoiDe unofficial Belles softball leader 

By KELLY PORTOLESE 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Ifactions speak louder than words then Saint Mary's senior Teresa McGinnis has been very influential in her four-year career on the col­lege's basketball and softb~ll teams. 
"She's a quiet player, yet you feel her presence," says Saint Mary's head softball coach Scott Beisel. "Her personality blends well with the team and she'll always give you 150 percent." 
With seven returning seniors on this year's squad, no captains had been elected, but Beisel and fellow teammate Janine Adamo see McGin­nis as a unique type ofleader. 
"She's the silent leader of the team," says the sophomore catcher. "She gets the job done and shows others by example rather than having to tell them." 
McGinnis is aware of her role and accepts it graciously. 
"I try to work hard and do what Coach wants me to do during games and practices and try to be an exam­ple to younger players. Because I've never been the talkative type of leader I hope others have learned through watching me. I hope I have set a good example," comments the centerfielder. 
And McGinnis has done nothing but that lately. Over the weekend, the veteran merely batted five-for­five in one game, knocking in three RBis while collecting three stolen bases. She also had some fine run­saving defensive plays, often rifling a throw to Adamo to nab the runner tagging up. 
The Lexington, Ky., native is modestly pleased with the way she's been performing lately but is quick to give credit to her fellow teammates. 
"It's the best at the plate I've ever done. I'm just swinging level," says the 21-year old. "Defensively I'm happy with the way I've played. It's always nice to help the team out in a tight spot, but anyone on the team can do it. We've always had a lot of tough defensive players." 
Although there was no softball team for her to participate on at Lex­ington Catholic High School, McGinnis has eleven years ofsoftball experience behind her by playing in competive summer leagues, where she was a leftfielder. 
As a high school basketball player she earned the team's most valuable player award and was named all-city her junior and senior years. 
When it came time to look for col­leges, the biology major could have gone to school only a short distance from her home at the University of Kentucky, but she wanted to go away for college. 
"I wanted to go to a small school where I'd get individual attention. At a big school I thought I'd be lost in the crowd or just a number," reflects McGinnis. "My father and sister went to Notre Dame and I knew Saint Mary's had a good reputation academically. I also wanted the op­portunity to continue to play basket­ball and softball after high school." 
When asked to pick her favorite of the two sports, McGinnis has little trouble deciding. 
"I've played softball for so much longer. I think its more suited to me and I have always had a good time with it," she says. 
Mastering the rigorous schedule of a biology major coupled with playing on two varsity athletic teams is no easy task, but the LeMans resi­dent seems to have handled it rather well. 
"In some ways its made me more organized. A couple of hours a day it gets my mind off all the homework I have to do. I'm glad I've been able to use my time constructively. It has been tough keeping up with all the work, but I've never regretted playing," says McGinnis. "Sports have been a good part of my educa­tion. It's taught me a lot about working with people through good and bad. Sports have always been a part of my life. It's my way of being involved in the school." 
McGinnis has nothing but praise for Beisel, who she says has greatly affected her enjoyment of the game. 
"I think we're very fortunate to have him here at Saint Mary's. He knows a lot about the game and is a great coach. He doesn't put a lot of pressure on us. 
"One of the reasons I've enjoyed softball so much here at Saint Mary's is because of him. I think everyone on the team has a lot of respect for both him and assistant coach Sue Be­cker. It's a lot easier to go out and practice every day when you know they're behind us. We can enjoy practices. I can't say enough about them." 
With graduation just around the corner and a masters degree in biol­ogy or environmental science in the near future, McGinnis has one goal immediately on her mind. 
"My goal is to win the state tourn­ament. We (her six fellow seniors) did it as freshmen and it was a good experience, says the four-year starter. "This would be the perfect way to end four years. I think we definitely have the talent and experi­ence to do it. The spirit on the team is good and the teamwork that you need to be successful is there." 
Last year the Belles finished with a 25-5 record but could manage only one win in the double-elimination eight-team tourney. At present Saint Mary's is on the road to indianapolis once again with a 9-4 record on its side. 
"With last year's tournament in mind it should give us a little more incentive to win this year," predicts McGinnis. "Right now I think we're starting to play the way we're capa­ble of playing and it's coming at a good time. We have a lot of big games coming up,too." 
McGinnis looks for Franklin, the Belles' Sunday opponent to be tough as well as Butler, an NCAA Division I foe and visitor to the Belles' home field late next week. 
"This senior class has been a strong nucleus for our team. It's hard to find seven like that group," con­cludes Beisel. 
Capturing another state crown would be the perfect way for them to bow out and with the "silent leader" guiding the way the Belles' Class of '85 could leave Saint Mary's in the same grand fashion it entered. 


Applica·tions for 

Student Government ASSISTANT TREASURER available in Treasurer's Office 2nd floor LaFortune Must presently be a Sophomore Accounting Major 
If you have any questions call Eric at 239-7417 Applications due 
Mqnday, April 22,4:00 PM 
The countdown continues. • • Seven rounds 'til the finals. • • 
Bookatore Tourn.ment 
Todoly'a G•mea Step•n 1 4:00-Johnny BarBuilder & the Mouse Family 
v. Gentlemen of Lersure 4:45-Where s That K1d Fwaydoe? v. Against All Odds 5:30-5 Horsemen of the Apocalypse v. Who Forgot to Wipe 6:15-Armed & Dangerous Ill v. Rusty Metal & the Corrosions 
Step•n 2 4:00-Up the Brown v. 4 Fags & a Zahmbie 4:45· Bad Finger .. The Finalev. ChaoticOs· 
cillatrons 
5:30 -Vict1ms of the Naked Man v. Inspector Thomas & the Private Eyes 6:15-WBBS Goes Off the Air v. 5 Guys Who 
Strap It To Their Thighs Step•n 3 
4:00 -If It Weren't For Fat G~rls ..v. Stielgel's 
Gives Your Body .. 4:45-Rousseau's Noble Savages v. Nude 2 5:30-Bearcat Express v. Toe Jamb. Queef 
JUice & 3 Other Tasty Treats 
6:15 -The Mishawaka Experience v. The Hodiends 
Step•n 4 4:00-The Wodwmgers v. Spuds 4:45-Union Carbide Burial Service v. You Can 
Have them Lengthened .. 5:30-Kill My Landlord v. Team X 6:15-Pigsters v. The Muff Divers 
Step•n 5 
4:45 -5 Guys Who Don't Want to Play W1th Woody v. Ray Meyer. Jerry. 
5:30 -The Chairmen of the Boards v. Purple Haze 
6:15-Vamlla Thunder v. Mutants Step•n 6 
5:30 -4 Gringos & a Stump v. Frankie Says Chow Butthole 6:15-Lack of Ongmahty v. Darers Got A Bas­ketball Jones Step•n 7 6:15-Your Worst Nightmare v. Last Minute Entry Step•n8 
Swahilis -The Final Chapter v. Snowball 1n Hell 
Bookatore9 6:15-Sires of Desire v. Knights of MBA Bookatore 10 
6:15 • Bend Over Babe -This Ain't Love v. Jimmy G. & the Spots 
Lyon•11 5:30· The Creaturesv. Pedi's Pirates 
6:15 -En-Care v. Gerry's Kids Lyona12 5:30-John Gace & the Cellar Dwellers v. Te­quila White Lightning 
6:15-Boo's Bar v. Lick My Greasy Balls For Old T1me·s Sake 
Women'a Bookstore Bookatore9 
4:00-Pneumothorax Ill v. Cabdrivers No.2 4:45-So You Think That We Can Play B-Ball? 
v. 5 Chicks Who Never. . 5:30-Slammers v. More Fun Than Humans 
Should Be Allowed to Have Book•tore 1 0 
4:00 -Nucleus Breaks v. Cindy Brady's Kitty 
Karry Ails 4:45-Nolo Contendre v. Short But Sweet 5:30-We Shave Points But Not For Drugs v. 
The 'B' Team 
Yeaterd•y·a Reaulta Step•n I Byrne's By-Products over Still Virtually Un­known by 9 Step•n 2 4 Guys Who Go All the Way... over John Murphy's Slime Train VI by6 Step•n3 Dribbling Dyxz II over Post Consumptory White Castle Movements by 13 Raging Ray·s CPAs over Jack & the Giant Kil­lers by 15 Step•n4 Tofu Vegetables I over Two Ionic. Two Doric & 1 Early Corinthian by 3 The Fastest White Guys on. . over John Henry & the Longshoremen by 9 
Step•n 5 
Don't Laugh over Crimes Against Nature by 16 
PB & Who Knows over Little Waterbirds on the Prairieby2 
Step•n6 
Showtrme over 5 Seniors Without a Job by 13 
Step•n 7 
Phillips over Johnny Wad & the4 SqUirtS by 14 
Step•n8 
That's What Made It Such a . . over Bricklayer 
& the Hoopers by 9 
Book•tore9 
5 Guys Worse Than Tim Kempton over We 
Love NO -Right by 7 
Peewee & the Weeb1es over Negat1ve by 9 
Red Barons over Sweet Lou's Wild Kingdom 
by 13 
Rhythm Method over Pubic Hairs on Soap by 
16 
Book•tore 10 
The Dougherty Dudes over Your Freudian Slip is Showing Again by 5 Cubs Lose! over Chicks Dig Us by 7 Los Malandros over The Beanheads by 8 Chicks Dig Fred Bassett over What the Duck 

by 17 Lyona11 Relax. Don't Do It over Catherine the Great Meets Mr. Ed Agam. 28-26 Law School Sucks over Prime Time by 2 Chicks Dig Us Now That We're ... over Grap­pling in the Cosmic Wash by 10 Lumpy. Cheese over Captain Flathead & The Turbulent 4 by 15 Lyona12 Runnin' & Gunnin' Bancites over Maydog & 4 Men Named Dick by 18 Ed Smierciak & 4 Other Guys Better Than John Paxon over DM3 B by 19 Shooting C-Men over Uge & the Dragline Buckets by 14 Return of the Oueef over 5 Guys With Packages the Mailman Can't Carry by 10 
Women·a Bookatore Step•n 1 RTHBKA over Mexican Connect•on & the 3 Wettasby 14 Stepan2 The Dialectics over Samurai Sue· & the Hari Karis by 15 Step•n3 The DUis over The 5 W's by 2 Step•n4 Skippies Need Not Apply over Grin & Bear It by 13 
-

-
The Observer Friday,April19, 1985-page 14 
Against South Side Club 

Rugby club wins two, loses one 


The Ob~~rv~r/Fik Photo 
Senior Brad Mollet oftheNotre DameRugby Club goes upfor the ball in a game last weekend on Stepan Field. The Irish won two of three games against the South Side Irish Club. joanie Giblin describes the action in herstory at left. 
ByJOANIE GIBLIN 
Sports Writer 
'Ilte Notre Dame Rugby Club started its home season last Saturday by winning two of three contests from the South Side Irish Club. The A team lost it's match, but the Band C teams came through with victories. 
The strong A squad started off against an older and experienced South Side team. South Side scored first with two penalty kicks. leading oil, 6-0. 'lbe Irish then came back with two successful penalty kicks by fullback Steve Schneider to tie the score, 6-6. 
Although the Asquad fought hard, South Side pushed ahead with an­other penalty kick to win the game. 9-H. 
Notre Dame club president Steve Schneider said he was dissapointed with the outcome of the game. 
"We made quite a few mental mistakes on the field, and had too many penalties, which really hurt us," Schneider said. "'lbere really were some good plays and we shoukl've won the game." 
Fortunately for the club, the Irish 
Irish 
continuedfrom page 20 
Lately, that boat has been a sinking ship, as the Irish netters have dropped five of their last six deci­sions. It should be noted, though, that most of those losses have come to Big Ten competition, and that conference is certainly tougher than the Midwestern City, which has only three teams with ledgers over the .500 mark. 
'!be experience gained from playing those kinds of teams, along with the fact that the tournament scoring is ba~ed on idividual results should help Notre Dame, according to Fallon. "With the kind ofcompeti­tion we've had this year, the younger players are gaining some valuable experience. Hopefully, that will pay off this weekend." 
There's no doubt the Irish have some fine individual talent, and that could pay offwhen the coaches have their seeding meeting this after­noon. Every Irish player has a good shot at being placed in the top four, while senior Mike Gibbons has a fine chance of being placed in the top two of the number-two singles bracket. The Miami, Fla., native has an impressive l 5-4 mark entering the weekend's action, ranking him right behind Miguel Olvera of Oral Roberts. 

Other Irish players and their rankings in the latest conference standings are joe Nelligan at first singles ( I 0-10, 3 ); Dan Walsh at third singles ( 12-8, 3 ); Dave Obert at fourth singles ( 1 1-9, 3); Tom Grier at fifth singles (9-l0, 4) and Paul Daggs at sixth singles ( 12-8, I). 
In doubles action, the first tandem of Gibbons and Walsh is rated third with an I 1-7 mark, the second duo ofObert and Grier is listed second at 13-7, while Nelligan and Daggs top the third doubles group with a 13-6 mark. 
Position in the conference 
rankings does not necessarily indi­
cate where a player will be seeded, 
since most of the teams in the con­
ference do not face each other 
during the season. 
"I expect that Oral Roberts and 
Oklahoma City will get most of the 
top two seeds, because oftheir com­
petition and the way they have done 
in the past," comments Fallon. "If 
last year's tournament is any indica­
tion, though, the difference between 
the top four players in each division probably won't be that great." 
The Irish will get a nice respite on Sunday, thanks to some reschedul­ing. Notre Dame was scheduled to meet Indiana State on Sunday in Terre Haute, but they will be spared from having to visit that city until May 1. The match with Eastern Mic­higan originally scheduled for May 1 at the Courtney Tennis Center has been bumped to May 2. The starting 
time still will be 3 p.m. 
Nelligan 
continuedfrom page 20 
hitting outdoors this spring and, as a consequence, hasn't quite reached his peak. 
So far this season, Nelligan has won the majority of his matches despite losing some very close three-set matches. Since he plays the No. l singles position, Nelligan sees the best the opposition ha~ to offer. 
Despite his success, Nelligan still feels he can get better, 
"I think my first serve has been im­proving lately," he says, "although I haven't played quite as well as I'd like to." 
This intensity is also evident in Nelligan's classwork in the difficult electrical engineering curriculum. His hard work has been rewarded by acceptance into two honary aca­demic fraternities: Eta Kappa Nu for electrical engineering and Tau Beta Pi for general engineering. 
Another aspect of Nelligan's per­formance this year has been his lead­ership role. Only Nelligan and senior Mike Gibbons are returning letter­winners. A$ a result, this year's squad is.very young and inexperienced. 
"Joe ha-; done a great job encour­

-
aging the younger players this year," comments Fallon. "He sets a good example and the other players try to mold themselves after him." 
Nelligan says he sees his role as captain in a slightly different light. 
"The most important thing is for the team to win," he claims. "I try not to let the younger players get down if they lose a singles match. I encourage them to go out and play their best in doubles." 

B squad did not meet with the same fate. Fullback Tom Reidy set the Irish on their way with a penalty kick, leading off 3-0. 
South Side then scored a try. but failed to make the conversion, put­ting the score at 4-3. Notre Dame's serum halfJamie Cantorna, who had a great day on the tleld, attacked then with another try for the Irish. A Reidy conversion put Notre Dame ahead. 7-4. 
Although South Side scored again, making the score 8-7, it couldn't outdo the feisty Irish team. Center Mark Weingartner finished off the game for the B squad with a try, giving the Irish the victory, 13-10. 
In the last match of the day, Notre Dame's C squad beat an unsuspect­ing South Side team, 18-I4. Marty Burke, wing, gave the Irish their first points of the game with a try, fol­lowed by a beautiful conversion by fullback Kevin Whelan. 
Notre Dame was ahead then, 6-0, when South Side scored with a try for four points, but missed the con­version. Whelan made a penalty kick, giving the Irish a score of9-6. 
South Side didn't give up yet, though, and put six more points on the board. With the score at I 0-9, South Side leading, Whelan brought the team back with a penalty kick, for a score of 12-I 0. 
South Side made a try to go ahead of the Irish, I4-l 0. Wing forward Frank Hardart put South Side out of the game, then, scoring a try. Whelan ended the game with a con­version, to give the Irish the I8-14 win. 
"As far as the B and C squads are concerned, we were really pleased with Saturday's matches," Scheniedeer said. "'!be whole team, though, played extremely well against such an experienced men's club. 
"We have quite a few new players, and certainly will benefit from having played such a strong op­ponent. Everyone played well and we're looking forward to a great season." 
The Irish A, B, and C teams, respectively, will take on the Battle Creek Rugby Club tomorrow begin­ning at I p.m. on Stepan Field. 
As it stands now, the Irish are l S­1I and heading into the Midwestern City Conference Tournament in St. Louis. Last year the Irish finished third behind Oral Roberts and Okla­homa City with Evansville finishing fourth. The Irish already have beaten Evansville in the fall season and played very tough against Oral Roberts. Oklahoma City also has lost some key players. 
"Hopefully, we can win the tourn­ament this year," Nelligan says. "I think we should at least improve over last year's performance." 
Individually, Nelligan says he 
thinks he has a good chance of win­ning the singles title based on past performance against some ofthe key players. 
After the conference tournament, the Irish have eight matches remain­ing. A key element in a seventh­straight 20-win season for Fallon's Irish squad will be the play of Nel­ligan. 
"Joe's match against Northwes­tern (last Tuesday) was his best of the sea<>on," Fallon says. "Hopefully, that match will push Joe to his peak and the team over the 20-win plateau." 
NVA Spring Runs set to go tomorrow 
ByJOHN A. MENNELL 
Sports Writer 

Time is running out in the semester and so is time to train for tomorrow's Irish Spring Runs. 
The six-mile race will begin at II a.m. and the three-mile race will start at I 0 a.m. Both races will be run on courses around campus and are sponsored by Non-Varsity Athletics 
JeffWesthoven will be defending his men's undergraduate title in the six-mile race, which he won with a time of 32:33 last spring. Westhoven, now a .iunior, finished fourth overall last year. 
The winner was FrancisAwanya with a time of 31:05 
Approximately 150 runners are expected for the six-miler and 50 for the three-miler. Larger numbers are not expected because of the Diet Pepsi Challenge IOK race in South Bend tomorrow. 
Sprinklers and aid stations along the Spring Runs' courses will be available for any runners needing assistance. All finishers will be given T-shirts and the winners in each of six divisions will be awarded trophies. Registration for the races continues until 5 p.m. today at the NVA office in the ACC. 
LOGAN CENTER 
ND/SMC Council for the Retarded 
Needs Volunteersfor 
THECAMPOUT THIS WEEKEND 4/20-4/21 

Leavefrom Logan Center 8:30am Saturday 
CALL TOM (x2508) or KATHY (x3604) for info 

The Observer Friday, April19, 1985-page 15 

Answers to yesterday's questions 
1) Vida Blue (1971) 
2) Julian Javier 
3) Clint Hartung 
4) Deacon Phillippe 
5) Coca-Cola 
Watch for next week's quiz in Thursday's paper. 
Little~· prepares you for the real world. 

HOW TO MEET WOMEN. 
You better learn this now: once you get out of college, it's gonna be harder to meet women. Here are a few places to try. How about the Art Museum? Wait, who are you trying to kid'? You don't know anything about art. And once she found out, she'll laugh in your face. The health club'? Nah, all you know how to do is sweat. And once she sees you in gym clothes, she'lllaugh at the rest of you. There's always the laundromat. But asking someone's advice on bleach is hardly a prelude to romance. You could try the old "get fixed up with the daughter of a friend of your mother" routine. But. since your mother is going to get ~-full report of the evening, how much fun are you going to have? And worse yet, if you brought her to meet your mother, and your mother liked her ... well, then. you'd real(v have problems. 
Little Caesars feels you shouldn't have to sertle these problems on an empty stomach. Here's a great chance to try out a "How 'bout sharing a pizza with me'?'' routine. 
....... 
L.quor 

Sun-Thurs 
llam -llpm

UTTLL• 
~~~AR'' 
I ! 
...... l Fri-Sat llam -lam

Corner of Elwood and Portage 
(4 minutes from Campus) 
From your local Uttle c.-·,m..,.ger ·.lay Freet 
233-3200 

Give us a try -You won't regret it! 
' 1984 littlt" (a('sar Enterprist"s, Inc 

----• VALUABLE COUPON •---­
IIIIII PillA! 
I Bu1 am siz~ nri\dnal round pizza at regular price. get identical pizza FR.EE '-ith this cnupnn at participating Little Caesars. Carry·out I <>nl). On~ C<>upon per customer. 
NCAA enforcement staff decides to 'get tough' on big rule-breakers 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CllY, Mo. · Schools could be forced to give up football or basketball for two years and the NCAA enforcement staff would gain far-reaching powers under a revolu· tionary series ofget-tough. measures approved Wednesday by the NCAA council. 
"We're instituting the athletic equivalent of the death penalty," said one observer who spoke on condition he not be identified. 
The proposals were drawn up by the newly created NCAA Presiden· tial Commission and will be put to a vote ofall NCAA schools at a special convention June 20-21 in New Or· leans. If adopted, most will go into effect at once. 
Jack Davis, president of1the NCAA, said in an interview that l:ite expects the measures to be be adopted. Each will require a roll call vote · meaning that every school's vote will be a matter ofpublic r~cord. 
Bill Hunt, head of the NCAA en· forcement department, said they are the most extraordinary steps taken in the war to clean up college ath· letics that he has seen since he joined the association in 1972. 
Essentially, the proposals will divide the NCAA rules into major and secondary infractions. 
Major violations, said Hunt, are those that show a repeated pattern of willful wrong-doing and give a school a clear competitive advan· tage. Secondary violations will be defined as things that are isolated or technical in nature and provide a limited advantage. 
In the past, secondary type viola­tions have usually resulted in a private reprimand or a public proba­tion without sanctions, said Hunt. But ifapproved in June, these sort of infractions could result in the permament ineligibility of athletes; forfeiture of games; prohibition of the head coach or other staff mem· bers from off-campus recruiting for one year; a 20-percent reduction in the number of scholarships the school can offer in the affected sport, and a fine ranging from $500 to 55,000. 
All penalties for secondary viola­tions would be at the discretion of the assistant executive director for enforcement, which since 1978 has been Hunt. Any decision by Hunt could be appealed to the NCAA In· fraotions Committee, which in the past has decided punishment in all cases. 
The minimum penalty for major violations would include all of the following: 
•A 
two-year probationary period. 

•The 
elimination ofall expense-paid recruiting visits to the school for one year. 

•Requiring 
all coaching staff mem­bers in the affected sport to forego off-campus recruiting for one year. 

•
Requiring that all staff members who knowingly engage in or condone major violations be subject either to termination or suspension 


without pay for at least one year, or to be reassigned within the univer· sity to a position that does not bring him into contact with student· athletes for at least one year. 
•One year of sanctions against postseason competition and televi· sion appearances. 
The so-called "gas chamber" penalties will come into play, said Davis, for "repeat violators" · when any major violation is fmmd within a five-year period following the start­ing date ofa major penalty. The min· imum penalties for repeat major violators would be: 
•Prohibiting 
some or all "outside" competition in the spor1t involved in the latest major violation for one or two seasons and the prohibition of all coaching staff members in that sport from any coaching·activity for two years. An NCAA sttaff member said "outside" competition would include all competition above the intra-mural level. "They would not even be able to schedule NAIA schools," he said. 

•Prohibiting 
the school from giving out any scholarships and prohibiting the coaching staff from any recruit· ing activity for two years. 

•Requiring 
that the so:hool's staff members resign any position on any NCAA committee, including the Council or the Presidential Commis­sion. 

•Forcing 
the school to relinquish its voting privileges in the NCAA for four years. 



Tulane University drops basket.ball in wake of point-shaving scandal 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS · Tulane Univer· sity's board of administrators voted unanimously yesterday to end the 72-year old basketball program that this year caused the school itS worst embarrassment ever over charges involving fixed games, drugs and illegal payments to players. 
Players and other students are al· leged to have been involved in a point-shaving gambling scheme to rig two games last February. 
'Tm saddened and disappointed by the events that have taken place and the necessity for taking this ac­tion," said Tulane president Eamon Kelly, who had recommended the abolition of the men's basketball program. 
Board chairman Boatner Riley demic program at Tulane. We are said the administrators felt that going to re-earn our credibility and "under the circumstances, Dr. Kelly we'll be back to them." took exactly the appropriate action" Two members of last season's with his recommendation, which team are under indictmt:nt for point earlier this week was overwhelm-shaving. Another player pleaded ingly approved by the school's sen-guilty in the conspiracy, and two are ate. testifying against their former 
Tulane teams played almost 1,400 teammates. Five others were in· games since the school started inter· dieted in the gambling scandal: collegiate basketball in 1912. three students, a convicted book· 
Riley would not discuss the possi-maker and a young man accused of bility that the program might be being a courier for bribed money. revived at some later date. Cocaine is alleged to have been in-
However, Kent McWilliams, volved in the scheme. chairman of the Intercollegiate Ath· Athletic director Hidman Wall, letics Committee, said he hopes it coach Ned Fowler and two assistant can be resumed. basketball coaches have resigned. 
"I told them that after the studies Kelly said Fowler admitted paying at and all, we are going to double our least one player for playing. efforts and we are going to end up Wall has denied any knowledge of with a program that suits the aca-it. 
Pro hockey playoff action heats up 
Associated Press 
The Quebec Nordiques surprised the Montreal Canadiens, 2-1 , in overtime on Mark Kumpel's goal in the opener of the Adams Division final in National Hockey League playoff action last night. 
Kumpel took a pass from Michel Goulet and snapped a shot from the right-wing boards which eluded goaltender Steve Penney at 12:23 of OT. 
"I was trying to stay wide ·on the play, Michel got me the puck and I got rid of it quickly," said Kumpel, the only American with the Nor· diques. "I knew the defenseman was coming up on me, so I just shot, looked up and it was in." 
Brent Ashton had given Quebec a 1·0 lead at 9:38 of the first period when he slapped a shot through Pen· ney's legs from just inside the Montreal blue line. Penney looked weak on that shot. 
Montreal during the regular season, three points behind the Canadiens. But Quebec was 1·6·1 against its archrival during the campaign. 
At Philadelphia, Rick Tocchet had a goal and an assist, Brian Propp set up a pair of goals and the Flyers blanked the New York Islanders, 3·0 as goalie Pelle Lindbergh registered 22 saves. It was the second time this month that Lindbergh has shut out the Islanders, who advanced to the Patrick Division final by rallying from a two-game deficit to win the last three against Washington in the opening round. 
"It probably was one of the best games for our defense," said lindbergh."It is nice to have the shutout but winning was most im· portant tonight. Mostly the team played well." 
The Flyers took a 1-0 lead at 4:10 of the second period when Propp stole the puck from defenseman Paul Boutilier and sent a backhand handed home the rebound to make it 2-0 for his sixth playoff goal. Ron Sutter's backhander lau: in the final period, on a setup by Tocchet, finished the scoring. 
In Chicago, the Black Hawks raced to a 3·0 lead, then saw the North Stars score six S[raight goals and coast to an 8-5 upset. Minnesota, which had a poor regular season and was fourth in the Norris Division, wound up 21 points behind second­place Chicago. But the North Stars swept first-place St. Louis in the opening round and surprised the Hawks with a four-goal second per­iod. 
Brian Bellows had a goal and two assists for his first points of the playoffs and Tony McKegney scored twice · once into an empty net with five seconds remaining. 
At Edmonton, Paul Coffey's shot bounced into the net off teammate Dave Semenko's skate six minutes into the third period ilO send the 

E•pires: 5 · 20 · 85 But Montreal retaliated on its first pass to Tocchet, who shot from Oilers to a 4-2 victory over the Win· shot, at 11:50 when Lucien DeBlois about 18 feet. The puck went be· nipegJets in the Smythe Division. rammed a pass from Mats Naslund tween goalie Kelly Hrudey's legs. The goal came after two quick past goalie Mario Gosselin. Propp had two shots blocked by passes from a faceoff in Winnipeg The Nordiques finished second to Hrudey before Tim Kerr back-territory. 
The Observer 
New Rolfs Natatorium approaches completion after one year of work 
By MARC RAMIREZ 
Sports Writer 
Its stainless steel drainage troughs arrived just last week. 
Workers are busily painting its sides with a leakage-preventing sub­stance. 
And with the advent of warm spring weather. the project should be completed, according to ACC Manager of Operations Bob Loeffler, by late September. 
By the time it is done, the llniver­sity's Olympic-sized Rolfs Natatorium. slowly rising from the dust behind the northeast corner of the ACC, will feature an eight-lane, SO-meter pool, provide a tremen­dous boost for Coach Dennis Stark's 
swimming program, and alleviate some of the scheduling headaches suffered by Non-Varsity Athletics. 
"It will certainly mean a lot to the program," said Stark. "It will give us more water time for practice, give us more tlexibility. And hopefully it will entice other swimmers to come to Notre Dame who might not have considered it because we didn't have such a facility." 
NVA Director Dr. Tom Kelly is pleased with the project also. "It's a great plus for us," he said. "It in­creases the number ofthings we can do. We're very excited about it." 
As both programs stood before, they were a hassle, with only the Rockne Memorial pool to utilize. Stark's practice times had to be split three ways, between the men's and women's swim teams and divers. NVAwas forced to limit the number ofprograms it could offer in terms of both size and time, and many, such as co-ree water polo, had to be worked in wherever they would fit, often at inconvenient times. Trying to juggle these programs, in addition to swim classes and time set aside for student recreation, in the com­paratively small body ofwater in the Rock was no easy task. 

"!be natatorium will iron things out considerably. Along with pro­viding carpeted seating space for 400 spectators, it will feature movable bulkheads which can be used to divide the pool three ways. Two competition-size diving boards, as well as several smaller platforms, will be situated at the north end of the pool, where it reaches a depth of 16 feet. "This gives us more tlexibility," said Stark. "With the expanded facility, both the men and women, as well as the divers, can practice at the same time." 
Stark added that it is probable that Notre Dame will host the confer· ence championships in two seasons, after the rough edges inherent in a new facility have been evened out. 
Following preliminary studies of what other schools have done, Kelly anticipates growth in the number of recreational and service programs which the NVA will offer, such as scuba and small-craft safety courses. "There has also been some interest in sychronized swimming and wo­men's water polo," Kelly said. "But we're still in the planning stages. I've even talked to experts in aquatics about offering a program in hydroaerobics." 
For now, the building still is a skeleton of itself. Loose boards, wires and tools lie scattered everywhere. The roof is suspended from high-rising beams, and a person standing at the dirt-floored deep end of the pool can see concrete walls and the beginning of a storage area to the north; Courtney Tennis Cen· ter to the east; the shallow end and an instruction area to the south; un­derwater viewing windows, and the elevated spectator area, which will be reached via a spiral staircase at ACC Gate S, to the west. 
When the walls are finally leak­proof, a monumental tiling job begins, and in go the windows and lights, and then the pool is ready for the big test· the water. 
The project, which began in mid· April of 1984, is being overseen by Don Dedrick, physical plant manager. 
Chris Bona quitely helps out Irish; fellow golfers share his confidence 
ByJOHN COYLE 
Sports Writer 
Chris Bona is not exactly a household name around campus, but he is having one of the most suc­cessful seasons that any Notre Dame athlete has had this year. The tall blond-haired sophomore is quietly helping the Notre Dame golfteam to a winning season. 
Bona is a resident of Western Springs, lll., and is a finance major in the business school. He also is the second youngest of seven children and has been playing golf since the age of ten. Since he was a member of a family of golfers, it was inevitable that he too would be on the course at an early age. 
"My dad has played since he was a kid. My four older brothers just kind ofdragged me out there one day and threw me on the course," he says. 
A partial scholarship athlete, Bona is one of several players that Irish head coach Noel O'Brien is depend­ing on, ifthe Irish are to do well this spring. 
It isn't easy for the Irish to get ready for the spring season. They don't have the luxury of playing outside during the winter. The most 
NBA playoffs 
practice the Notre Dame golfers can get is hitting balls at the ACC. A trip to Florida during spring break gave them an opportunity to work out the winter cobwebs in preparation for a very difficult spring season. 
The Irish have had two dual meets here at Notre Dame and also played in a tournament at Purdue so far this young season. They have played a lot the last four weeks and should now be on top of their games. 
Bona said he believes that he has no one single strong point in his game. He possesses an overall confi­dence in his physical game but feels that he must spend equal practice time on every facet ofhis game. 
If there is a weak point in his play, it could be the mental aspect of the sport. Golfis a game that requires in­tense concentration and constant composure. Bona feels that one has to have a solid mental game ifone is to become an outstanding player. Golfcourse management is the most important thing that Bona has learned since he began playing col­legiate golf. 
"Once you progress in competive golf, you learn to work on the mental facet ofgolf. Since last year, I learned not to make matters worse when not playing well," explains Bona. 
A two handicap, Bona averages between 72 and 82 for an 18-hole round of golf. He is certainly dedi· cated to improving his golf game. During the summer, he plays six days a week, and throughout the year he is constantly looking for tips that might better his play. 
The Notre Dame golf team is par­ticipating in a four-day tournament this weekend in Northern Illinois. The 54-hole meet began yesterday with a practice round. The Irish will be competing against schools from the Big Ten, the Mid-American Con­ference and also some midwestern independents. 
In the past few years, the Irish have finished near 20th in 24-team competitions. This year, however, they have improved, moving into the top half, finishing near seventh or eighth. 
Bona said he believes that the Irish golfers are confident as a team and know they can do well. However, there are no seniors on the team, which still is relatively in­experienced. The Irish will need the experience Bona can provide ifthey are to do well this weekend. 
Celtics, Pistons, Mavericks all win 
Assoclated Press 
Larry Bird scored 40 points as the Boston Celtics, seeking their 16th National Basketball Association title, edged the Cleveland Cavaliers, 126­123 last night in a first-round playoff 
game. 
• 'lbe Celtics held a 70-S8 halftime edge and led by 13 points with four minutes remaining In the third per­iod, but the Cavaliers rallied for a 120·1 I 7 lead with 3 minutes left in the game at Boston Garden. 
Kevin McHale, who got nine ofhis 26 points in the last four minutes of play, hit a baseline jumper and a free throw to trigger the Boston com­eback. After a basket by World B. Free gave Cleveland its last lead, McHale sank two free throws and a hook shot for a 126-123 Celtic ad­vantage with 24 seconds left. 
Roy Hinson led a balanced Cleveland attack with 24 points, John Bagley had 22 and Free 18. The second game of the best-of-five se­ries is scheduled for tomorrow after­noon at Boston. 
In another playoff opener, Bill Laimbeer scored 23 points to pace Detroit to a 125-105 thrashing of New Jersey. The Nets had won five of six regular-season meetings be­tween the clubs, but it was no con­test after an early 6-6 tie. With Laimbeer scoring eight points, Detroit went on a 25·6 run that put the game away early. 
John Long added 20 points for Detroit. Buck Williams had 23 for New Jersey. Game 2 of the series is set for Sunday, also in Detroit. 
At Dallas, Rolando Blackman scored 43 points, including six in the second overtime period, to pace the Mavericks to a series-opening 139·131 victory over the Portland Trail Blazers. 
Blackman hit the basket that tied the game, 112-112 at the end of regulation, and his bucket with four seconds to go tied it at 121 after the first overtime. Then he scored three straight baskets to overcome a 125· 121 Portland lead. 
Kiki Vandeweghe led Portland with 25 points and Darnell Valentine added 24. Mark Aquirre had 27 points for Dallas. 
The second game ofthe series will be played tomorrow at Dallas. 
In late games, Los Angeles was at home against Phoenix and Denver played San Antonio. 
Friday, April 19, 1985 -page 16 

Lacrosse Standings 
Midwest Lacrosse Association 
Team  w  L  
Notre Dame  4  0  
Denison  3  0  
Ohio Wesleyan  3  0  
Michigan St.  3  
Wittenberg  2  1  
Lake Forest  2  2  
Wooster  2  3  
Kenyon  2  3  
Ohio State  3  
Ashland  3  
Mt. Union  1  6  
Oberlin  0  5  

Standings as of April15, 1985 
Pet. 1.000 1.000 1.000 .750 .667 .500 .400 .400 .250 .250 .143 .000 

Looking for Summer Excitement? 
Join the group going to 
Yellowstone Ranch School 
in Emigrant, Montana Exciting experience in horse handling, mountain survival, float trips, Yellowstone outings and many more outdoor activities. A REAL WESTERN ADVENTURE! 
or phone:Yellowstone Ranch School 

Box 663 (406) 848-7570 
Emigrant, Montana 59027 

GENERAL MICRO LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
239-7477 283-2726 

New Pricing Effective April1, 1985 until May 15, 1985 
Macintosh 512K Professional Package 512K Mac,lmagewriter, Ext. Drive 2439.60 
Macintosh 128K Professional Package 128K Mac, lmagewriter, Ext. Drive 1841.10 
1200 Baud Apple Modem with Macterminal Software 410.00 

The Observer 


Frilday, April 19, 1985-page 17 
Rob Simpson protects Irish lacrosse goal with intensity 
By MIKE SULLIVAN ingly, the a11swer is that his high first time in his career this season by Sports Writer school football coach and parents freshman Matt McQuillan, Simpson's advised him to. heir apparent. He has had his high:;: Picture yourselfguarding a net six "Lacrosse was real big at my high last season when he was among the feet high and six feet wide from a school ( Comsewogue High School top goalkeepers in the nation in save small, hard rubber ball that can ap­on Long Island), but I was mainly in­percentage ( .695 ), and lows: 1983 proach you at speeds that would terested in football," explains the when he was benched for a short make a major league baseball Port Jefferson Station, N.Y., native. period of time, but he has been a pitcher proud. "My coach told me to play a spring constant for the improving Irish 
All that stands between the ball sport to get in shape. I didn't really lacrosse program. and the goal is your lightlyprotected like lacrosse, but I was hanging body and a stick with webbing on around a lot of kid!> who were Although the lack of competition one end. derelicts and were getting in trouble probably has hurt Simpson's prog­
Life as a lacrosse goalie ranks -a lot of them are in jail now-so my ress in some phases of the game, he somewhere between hockey parents wanted me to play a sport always has remained a very ag­goaltender and kamikaze pilot on and I decided to play lacrosse. gressive goalie who is not afraid to the list of occupations that can lead "I really had no intention of come out of the goal to force enemy to bodily harm. Lacrosse has been playing goalie, but the team needed attackmen into rushed shots. called "the fastest game on two a goalie and they told me that I "Rob's unorthodox in some ofthe feet," a debatable claim. But not couldn't play unless I played there. things he does, but it works in his debatable is that getting hit with a So I 'volunteered.' On the first shot favor," says O'Leary. "Sometimes he lacrosse ball is not good for the body of the game, I got hit right in the... gets burned by being too aggressive, -unless, ofcourse, you enjoy bruises ah, wrong place. I couldn't believe I but he also makes some spectacular and contusions. was playing there. plays. He can get away with it be­
As one might expect, the goalie is "But I had a great high school cause ofhis athletic ability." the most important player on a coach," he adds. "He had more influ­It is also this aggressiveness that lacrosse team. He represents the last ence on me than anyone on any kind allows Simpson to survive the line of defense in the same manner ofathletic team I've been on. He told hazards of being a lacrosse goalie. as a hockey goalie. He also calls out me that he'd made me the best Understandably, goalies have been signals and directs his teammates as goalie. He really inspired me. He was known to be very intense, a trait a football signal-caller normally an all-American and he told me that which makes it easier to deal with does. he'd get me into any school I wanted the pressure and assault that their 
ifI played hard." bodies go through. 
However, the lacrosse goalie has Despitt; his relative inexperience "In the game it's wonth getting hit an added dimension that makes him, (most lacrosse players pick up the with the ball ifthat stops a goal," says with the possible exception of a sport at a very young age), Simpson Simpson. "I don't even feel it. In baseball pitcher, the single most im­progressed rapidly enough to be practice, you know wht:n you have a portant player in any sport. Not only named all-league in his senior year. bruise, but in a game, I'll get hit in is he in charge of the defense, but, Like his coach told him. his hard the first quarter and I'll come out at once the opponent's offense has work allowed him to be choosy the end of the game and then I'll been stopped, he also needs to come when it came to picking a college. realize that l got hit there." out ofthe goal to start the action rol­He eventually elected to join Rich Fortunately, Simpson does not get ling in the other direction by hel­O'Leary's fledgling program at Notre hit as much as he did early in his ping clear the ball out of the Dame, although lacrosse had career when the Notre Dame defensive end of the field. become a varsity sport there only a defense had problems protecting 
"There's a lot of pressure on the year earlier. him. O'Leary has been able to pay goalie in lacrosse," says Rob more attention to building a defense Simpson, someone who should "I knew that if I came to Notre because he has not had to worry know since he has been Notre Dame, I'd have the opportunity to about the goalie spot. Now, with Dame's No. 1 goalkeeper for four play," says Simpson. "I knew the pro­defensemen like Justin Shay, Mike years. "I've seen so many games here gram wouldn't be very good, but I Rice, Wally Stack and a much deeper when the score was tied late in the figured that eventually we'd have bench, Simpson's job is much easier game, and they have the ball. You more players and have better per­and he can spend more time staying know that, if you let them score, sonnel. And it's happened. I've been in the net instead of running out to you're the goat. A defenseman can here four years and I've seen the pro­make up for his defensemen's make six or seven mistakes a game gram go from nothing to real com­mistakes. by letting his man get by him, but if petitive." Not that there is never any pres­he scores on you, nobody sees that "Competitive" definitely does not sure. Even in a recent game against the defenseman messed up. It's you describe the situation that Simpson Mount Union in which the Raiders they see. found when he arrived at Notre took only two shots in the first half 
"That's where the pressure is. You. Dame. He only had to beat out one en route to a 23-2 loss, Simpson get nervous out there, but you try to other freshman for the starting found himself alone with a Mount control your emotions. You can't fill goalkeeper spot, a task that he han­Union player bearing down on him. the whole net like a hockey goalie dled easily. A few years ago, he probably would because the cage is six-by-six, and "Because of his athletic ability, he have raced out of the goal toward it's also hard to cut off the angles on started off playing better," says the attackman, taking a chance that shots. You can move out of the net a O'Leary, the Irish coach since the he would not be able to put the ball little, but you still have openings on program became a varsity sport five into the open net. both sides. You just try to bait the years ago. "He was really confident, This time, though, he stayed in the guy into making a mistake." and moved in and played well froni goal. The attackman tried a low shot 
If playing goalie is so tough, one the beginning. The other goalie that bounced off Simpson's leg and might ask, why would somebody never really had a chance." away from the goal. like Simpson subject himself to the Simpson has never looked back, physical and mental abuse? Surpris-although he has been pushed for the Ofcourse, he did not feel it at all. 
Lacrosse 
continuedfrom page 20 
breaks we get, and there probably won't be too many. 
"But we've had a real good, hard week of practices, and I think we're ready for Denison.'' 
The Irish are going to have to be ready ifthey are going to repeat last year's 1I-10 win over Denison that provided them with the boost they needed to take the conference title. In that game, which was played on Cartier Field, goalie Rob Simpson stopped 21 Big Red shots and attack­man Bob Trocchi had three goals and three assists. The win avenged an I 1-1 0 loss suffered the previous year on Denison's home field. 
Simpson and Trocchi are going to be important figures in tomorrow's game as well, but O'Leary also is going to be concerned with the play of freshman Tom Lanahan, who will be filling Grote's spot in the lineup, and attackmenJim Shields and Kevin Rooney, who will be trying to make up for the probable absence of McLachlan. 
No matter who is in the lineup, Notre Dame is going to have its hands full with Denison. The Big Red were 6-4 overall entering a game with Ohio State earlier this week in which they were heavily favored. 
Like the Irish, Denison has lost games only to teams from the East. However, the Big Red were able to come away with an 11-9 victory over Long Island's Stony Brook, a team which beat Notre Dame, 13­12, in double overtime. The only other common opponent is Lake Forest, which lost to Denison, I 5-6, and to the Irish, 9-2. 
"From what understand, Denison keeps playing better each week," says O'Leary, who is very lim­ited in how much he can scout an opponent. "They lost their high scorer from last year, but they've got a lot of young people who seem to be doing real well." 
Fortunately for Notre Dame, it, too, has been playing better of late. The offense that was sputtering ear­lier in the season has scored 49 goals in the last three games and has been especially effective against the weaker midwestern teams. 
Denison, however, is not one of those weak MLA teams. The Big Red, before last year, had dominated the 
MLA,  once  winning  the  title  by  
beating  Notre  Dame  in  the  MLA  
championship game.  

Now that there is no champion­ship game (the champion is picked by a panel ofjudges who look mainly at the teams' MLA win-loss records), there is no second chance for tomor­row's loser. Both teams have yet to play undefeated Ohio Wesleyan, currently No. 3 in the nation in Divi­sion III, so the loser will most likely find itself in a very big hole. 


The Observer Friday, April19, 1985-page 18 
Who will be Notre Dame's next quarterback? 
By MICHAEL). CHMIEL "He's sore but very happy that he Hudson. "To say that he's number with Terry Andrysiak when Scott refined. He just has to, also, read Sports Writer had the surgery," said Irish quarter­one right now, just off past experi­Grooms got hurt, but I'd say right coverages and do basically the same back coach Ron Hudson. "The doc­ence, yes (he should start), but we now that it's a toss up between those things that Tom has to do." 
Ont· of the key positions on the tor said that it wao; worse than he don't know how he's going to two ( Andrysiak and Byrne) with Pat Also provided with a strong look Notre Dame football team that is anticipated so they really cleaned it respond to rehabilitation." Pesavento right behind them." is Pesavento. The 6·3, 175-pound bein~ looked at with great interest out and eliminated the problem. The prime competitors for the Andrysiak, a 6-1, 175-pound freshman threw for over 3.500 yards and intensity this spring is the quar­Now, it's just up to Steve to get back "next-in-line" spot at quarterback native ofAllen Park, Mich., was rated while playing at Joliet Catholic in terback spot. into it and start working hard." as the top quarterback in his state as Lockport, Ill. Last year, Pesavento 
While the quarterback is usually Beuerlein replaced Blair Keil four a senior. The freshman, who saw lim­worked primarily with the prep
Spring Football 
the key point of attention each year games into the 1983 season and ited time last fall as a backup with squad. lbis spring, however, he also as he is the one who is desi~nated to earned the starting spot for the final injuries to Beuerlein and Grooms, is seeing a lot of action and likewise
'85 

go out and run the team on the field, eight games of that season and all of II believes that the spring sessions is seeking playing time. this year the position is sparking up a lao;t season. In Jao;t year's spring drills have been good so far in that he is "Pat Pesavento is coming along ~reatcr amount of interest because he was voted as the best player on ~ getting some much needed experi­slowly ami getting better," said Hud­of the injury of last fall's starter, the offense. ence. son. sophomore Steve Beuerlein. lbis year, however, Beuerlcin's are freshmen Terry Andrysiak, Tom "It's coming along well," com­While the Irish arc hoping to sec 
Bcuerlein suffered an injury to his injury has prompted the Irish to ex­Byrne and Pat Pesavento. Each was mented Andrysiak. "I'm learning the the return ofstarter Beuerlein to the shoulder during the last campaign plore their depth at quarterback in heavily recruited as a high school defenses and I'm getting a feel for lineup, it will be up to these fresh­which severely limited his throwing the spring sea'>on. Whether last senior. However, each also has seen the game." men to fill in the spots on the team abilities this year. Earlier this week year's leader returns a'> the starter or very little if any playing time at Byrne, a 6-5, 216-pound native of for the present. According to Hud­in California, he underwent a suc­not, the Irish are in need ofa backup, Notre Dame. Pacifica, Calif., threw for over 5,200 son, the results from tomorrow's cessful operation to correct his and they are looking towards a "They have never really had any yards during his high school career. scrimmage and next week's Blue injured shoulder. At this point, talented group offreshmen to fill the specific coaching at this level be­As a freshman he was red-shirred and and Gold game will be crucial to Beuerlein and his coaches can only spot. cause last year I was so involved saw little game or game-situation ex­deciding who the Irish will go with hope for a speedy and strong "It (the starting spot) depends on with Steve and Scott Grooms," ex­perience. This spring, Byrne is in the fall if their veteran is unable to recovery for theJunior-to-be. how Beuerlein comes back," said plained Hudson. "I got some work locked in a heated battle for the go at full speed. 
backup role and is hoping to prove "We'll be able to tell more within 
two catches for I 7 yards la'>t season. Miller is an all-around athlete with a himself as the better candidate for the next six days because we 
Williams, however, is injured and is 6-4, 208-pound frame who should the position. scrimmage Saturday and we
Stock 
watching the play from the sidelines be an impressive target for Notre scrimmage in the spring game," said continuedfrom page 20 this spring. Dame passes. "It's been a good learning period, Hudson. "We'll be able to see how popped up in the tight end spot, Also in the running are sopho­Stock also should feel relatively and right now, I'm getting as much the two play with an environment where sophomore Tom Rehder has more Dan Tanczos and junior Todd confident with the likes of Tim time ao; I could expect to get," said where there are no coaches on the taken over the duties left by the Lezon. Tanczos is coming off a mid­Brown and Reggie Ward returing for Byrne. "I'm very pleased with the field and where they can't turn and 
graduating Mark Bavaro. A tight end season arthoscopic knee surgery the Irish. Although only freshmen, time that I'm getting and the work talk to me -where it's the quarter­in high school, Rehder is not totally a and is playing cautiously, while the two combined for 34 catches for that I'm getting and the coaching. If I back being the leader and respond­foreigner to the position. But it will Lezon is adjusting to his switch from 494 yards in last fall's campaign. get the opportunity to play, I'll do ing to pressure situations." be a slightly different experience for quarterback. Brown's blazing speed and superb my best to fill the role more than Overall, however, Hudson is 
him, a~ his years at Notre Dame thus In the category of wide receivers, hands allowed him to surpass the adequately." confident that the Irish will be able far have been spent on the defensive Stock seems to be blessed with a bit freshman stats ofrecent Notre Dame 
According to Hudson, both to put a leader on the field now and side of the line. more depth. Heading the corps of standouts Ken MacMee, Tony players are being looked at very in the fall that can get the job done. 
"Rehder has made good progress receivers is junior Milt Jackson, who Hunter andJoe Howard. closely and arc basically even right "Right now, it's just a situation of for us so far," Stock says. "We were has been seeing time at split end, in­Ward highlighted his rookie now. 'you've got to go with what you really going for someone who could stead of his usual flanker spot. Jack­season with a 74-yard scoring grab "Tom is doing very well," said have,"' explained Hudson. 
use his muscle in blocking too, and son boasts 28 catches for 363 yards, against Missouri, and along with Hudson. "He just has to relax a little "Naturally, you'd like to have a Tom Rehder is well qualified to give including four for touchdowns last Brown, was one of only five fresh­more and not be in a hurry to deliver junior that's had two years ofexperi­us what we want. I expect him to im­fall. men to receive monograms in 1984. the ball. He has also got to do a bet­ence in the season or even a senior, prove even more in time." Following closely on the heels of Both have been contributing at the ter job of reading the defenses and but we don't have that, and so we're 
Backing up Rehder will be two­Jackson is sophomore Alvin Miller. flanker spot, and, according to Stock, react to what the defense gives him. doing the best that we can with what time letter-winner Joel Williams. Irish fans have yet to see much ac­will be threats not only at the slot "Terry's delivery is little bit more we have." Williams boasts the most experi­tion from Miller since a knee injury but also at the wingback position as c·nce in the tight end spot, nabbing put him out early last season. But ball carriers. 
Assisting them in their duties will 
be junior Pat Cusack and freshman
Wadkins rolls in PGA 
Tony Eason. Cusack earned a Associated Press Wadkins, the first man off the tee monogram in 1984, Jogging playing in the morning calm, missed only time on speciality teams and some at 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND, S.C. -two greens and did not make a wide receiver, while Eason will be Bobby Wadkins, who hao; played his bogey in his effort over the 6,808 looking for his first minutes this career in the shadow of older brot­yard Harbour Town Golf Links. season. 
her Lanny, reeled ofl" three con­Despite the setbacks of this spring secutive birdies on his way to a Paul Azinger was second with a practice, Stock remains optimistic 6-undcr-par 65 and a one-shot first 66. for the fall. The coaches have had an round lead yesterday in the At 67 were Hale Irwin, Jim opportunity to evaluate their depth S400,000 Sea Pines Heritage Classic. lborpe, Bobby Clampett, Mike and have had a chance to help some Bright and Larry Nelson. second-and third-string players im­
"lbat word 'potential,' it's been prove on their fundementals. But as the killer ofa lot ofplayers. I'm tired West German Bernhard Langer, Stock has emphasized, there is only of hearing it," said Bobby, who has who won the Masters last Sunday in one goal for this team when next fall yet to take an American title in his Augusta, Ga., played the front in 31 rolls around. 11-year PGA Tour career while his but bogeyed two of the last four "The bottom line: we want to brother has won 14 times, including holes and led a large group at 68. win." 


twice this year. 
Although he has collected more than S600,000 in career earnings, Bobby's only two victories have come abroad, in the European Open in 1978 and in Japan the following year. 
Bookstore 
continuedfrom page 20 
out any problems by a score of 21­1 I. Peter Kolettis led all scorers with six buckets. 
Runnin' and Gunnin' Banches stampeded Maddog and 4 Men Named Dick, 21-3. Joel Rump and Abner Fiqueroa teamed up for 1 5 of the victors' 21 points. 
The Cubs may lose a few games this year but so far Cubs Lose! has remained undefeated by burying Chicks Dig Us, 21-14. 
Rhythm Method was effective yes­terday as it washed Pubic Hairs on Soap down the drain by a final score of21-5. 
Relax, We'll Do It kept its cool during overtime to earn a 28-26 vic­tory over Catherine the Great Meets Mr. Ed. Phil Buckingham dropped in 14 points in 28 attempts for the losers while Daniel Reynolds tossed in eight for the winners' balanced at­tack. 
We're #I in Making Student Loans 
Get cash to coyer college expenses without the worry or the hassle. 
Visit our main office downtown, or call our student loan experts at 237-5410, today. 
Because We Make 
Them Simple. 

ftJOSEPH BANK 
MEMBER FDIC 
-----------------------------------~------------------------------~-------------------------------------------------------~--~--~------~ 
~c:»t:JlC3L~-------------------------------------------Fr_i_da_y_,_A_p_ri_l_I9_,_1_9_8_s___
p_ag_e_I_9 

Bloom County 
(;IV! lf1 NO MU?:CY/ 1lJ Hfft1. NO Mci?CY I
f'PIJNP I . 
111€. 1--" 
8UM/ -~ \
' '!},/
6~ 

Zeto 




The Daily Crossword 

ACROSS 1 Ring stone 5 Tex. player 
10 Tiff 14 Sticky mud 15 Graduated 
glass tube 16 Principal 17 Holmoak 18 Large Eur. lake 19 Only 20 Roman his· 
torian 22 A Gershwin 24 Oriental coin 25 Meet the con· 
sequences 28 Handy for 
reference 29 Freight 32 Farm building 35 Some 36 Certain Greek 37 High priest 38 Outdoor area: 
abbr. 39 Picnic insect 40 Heat unit 41 Simon­43 Aged 44 Poor school 
grades 45 Hung.composer 46 Ancient 
Italian 48 "The -Eve" 52 Away from 54 Beverage 55 Bathhouses 57 Wood strip 59 Stupid person 61 Lively song 62 Intertwine 63 Farm equip· 
mentman 64 Lacquered metalware 
65 S·shaped 
molding 66 Went wrong 67 Fastener 
DOWN 1 Leave out 2 Ricedlsh 3 Betel palm 4 Dictionary 
©1985 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 4/19/85
All Rights Reserved 
5 Complete 
change 6 Cheerfulness 1 Three: lt. 8 Political 
system 9 Hokkaido 
seaport 10 Sleuth spade 11 Order 12 Field unit 13 At that time 21 Half a score 23 Kind of scarf 26 Cathedral 
city, Eng. 27 A Fleming 30 Portal 31 Blame 32 Ringer 33 Sheltered 34 Military 
command 36 Pointed out 38-firma 39 Mackerel 42 Cheer 

Thursday's Solution 
s HEMIP IP '"IYAM.
N A T 0 0 V A T E E R A S ARAB LAWNMOWERS P I T C H Cf"N• A I R W A Y S 
CHI.TI 
l IS T ·~ tl'C 
_., H A M S  1E C T 0  GOIRMED E A R  
E V A  S T 0 R E  F R 0  
E R G 0  A M Y l  S E N D  

K E EIP S A X l E T R E E 1-A l I 0 N.l RR­
R E A 

0 T
s p l 

'IHA IRS PUSH
T E E N 0 R A T E E R l E .EX 
E T U N E S S l 0 E 
Applications still being accepted for 

Services Commissioner 
for the 

Student Activities Board 
Please pick them up in the 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
'' ... PIILL UPWI/RP St.OW/..Y, LOCK U80W I!NP fifft.Y PReSSI/1?£ WH/L€ P!JMMatNG 
OPPONENT'S SKI/{..{.. WrTH fOf-PING CHfilf<. ..." 
?j: 
Kevin Walsh 
..


Campus 
Friday, April19 

•9 
A.M. -3 P.M. -Ford Great Start Day, Display of New Cars and Registration for Free Sail Board, Stepan Center, Sponsored by Stu­dent Activities Board. 

•12 
P.M.-Workshop, "What Did the War on Poverty Accomplish?" Sheldon Danziger, Uni· versity of Wisconsin, Hayes Healy Auditorium. 

•4 
P.M.-Graduate Seminar, "Linear Feed­back Equivalence and Control of Nonlinear Chemical Systems," Karlene A. Hoo, Room 356 Fitzpatrick. 

•4 
P.M. -Graduate Seminar, "Steady State Electric Field Effects in Facilitating Transport Membranes," Paul M. Gallagher, Room 356 Fitzpatrick. 

•4·30 
P.M. -Lecture, "Grand Canyon," Dr. Ralph Langenhcim, Jr., University of Illinois, Room 101 Earth Sciences Building. 

•4:30 
P.M. -Lecture, "Synthesis and Biological Properties of HMG-CoA Reductase In­hibitors," Prof. Clayton Heathcock, Room 123 Nieuwland. 


.-, 9:15 & 11:30 P.M.-Fllm, "Cotton Club," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Stu· dent Activities Board. 
•7:30 
P.M. -Friday Night Fllm Series, "Peppermint Soda," Annenberg Auditorium. 

•8 
P.M.-Theatre Spring Concert, Regina Hall Dance Studio, Sponsored by ND/SMC Dance Theatre. 

•8 
P.M. -An Evening WithJ.S. Bach Con­cert, By. the Indiana University Orchestra, O'Laughlin Auditorium, 52. 

•8 
P.M. -Play, "M~onchildren," Washington Hall, Sponsored by St. Edward's Hall, $1. 

•9 
P.M. -FLOC Night at the Nazz, Jesus Negrete, Chicago Folk Artist, The Nazz, Sponsored by FLOC, Free. 


•8 P.M. ­ Harlem Globetrotters,ACC, $8.50  
& 57.  
•8 P.M. ­ Student Band Concert, Fieldhouse  
Mall.  

Toby vs. Godzilla 
Saturday, April20 

'•8 A.M.· 3 P.M. -Engineering Fundamen­tals Examination, Engineering Auditorium. 
•9 
A.M. -Registration, 1Oth Annual Regional Sociology Convention, 1st Floor, O'Shaughnessy, Free. 

•9
A.M.-Campout, Logan Center, Volunteers Needed, Sponsored by ND/SMC Council for the Retarded, Free. 

•9:30
A.M. -Sociology Convention, First Ses­sion, First Floor, O'Shaughnessy. 

•12 
P.M. -Sociology Convention, Main Speaker, Prof. Pilgrim, "Racial Segregation in Universities," Room 120 O'Shaughnessy. "1 :30 P.M. -Sociology Conventiolll, Second Session, Research Presentations, First Floor, O'Shaughnessy. 

•3 
P.M.-Graduate Clarinet Redtal, Nick Morrison, Annenberg Auditorium. 

•7, 
9:15 & 11:30 P.M.-Film, "Cotton Club," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Stu· dent Activities Board. 

•8 
P.M. -Play, "Moonchildren," Washington Hall, Sponsored by St. Edward's Hall, S1. 

•8 
P.M. -SMC Student Recital, Cynthia Kayven, Soprano, Little Theater ( SMC ). 

•9 
P.M. · 2 A.M. -Ethiopian <:hadty Ball, Stepan Center, 56 Single, :f> 10 Doubl•e. 


•3:30  P.M.  - Sociology  Convention,  
Conclusion,  Great  Hall,  First  Floor,  
O'Shaughnessy.  

Sunday, April20 

•4 
P.M.-Concert, Laura Klugherz and Karen Buranskas, Faculty Violin and Cello Recital, Annenberg Auditorium. 

•4 
P.M. -Mass & Snacks, Fr. David Porterfield, C.S.C., 802 Napolean Avenue, Sponsored by OC Liturgical Commission. 

•
7 P.M. -GuestRecital, Gail Berenson, Piano, Little Theatre (SMC). •7: 15 ·8:30P.M.-An Tostal Organizational Meeting, Library Auditorium. 

•7:30 
P.M.-Lecture, "The Rhetorical Climate of the Sixties," Dr. Carol Jablonski, Indiana University, ETS Theatre of the CCE. 

•8 
P.M. -Concert, ND/SMC Collegiate Choir, Sacred Heart Church 


43 Lout 44 Makes less briny 46 Sowing 
machine 
47 Beak 
49 Omit a syllable 

4/19/85 
50 Edible bulb 51 Sp. composer 52 Eur. capital 53 Banner 56 Pace 58 Golf aid 60 Comparative 
ending 
WANTED! 

Any person with no sense of humor 
WE CAN MAKE YOU LAUGH 
Apri127 6:00pm Engineering Auditorium $2.00 per ticket Tickets at Rock du Lac 
$25 reward to anyone who doesn't laugh 
L______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ _ 
Student Activities Board offices, For more information Second floor of the LaFortune call329-7757 t participate in show. ~~~! 
~~~~~sssssssss~~~~~~sssssssss~~;;;ss;~ =::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 


juniorjoe Nelligan and his Notre Dame tennis teammates will be in St. Louis today for the Midwestern City Conference Cham­pton.ships. Chuck Freeb_v previews the important event and Mike Carney gi11es a profile ofNelligan in the stories below. 
A Big Task 

Irish tennis team hopes to halt losing skid at SLU 
By CHUCK FREEBY 
!.ports Wri tt>r 

Winning isn't something the Notre Dame tennis team has been doing a lot oflately, but Irish coach Tom Fallon says he feels the time has come to turn that around. This weekend would be a great time to get back on the winning track, as Notre Dame heads to the Gateway City, St. Louis, Mo., for the sixth-annual Midwestern City Conference tennis champion~>hips today and tomorrow on the campus of St. Louis t:nivcrsity. 
However, the task ahead of the Irish looms as big as the Gateway Arch. as the Irish must knock off some powerful competition to bring home tht"ir first league crown. and Fallon knows this better than anyone. 
""Ibe favorites have co be Oral Roberts and Oklahoma City," notes the Irish mentor. who saw his squad tinish third to these two teams in la~t year's tourney at the Courtney Tennis Center. ..-Ibose two teams have won the title every year. so until somebody beats them, you have to keep putting them at the top. 
Nevertheless, Fallon believes his team ha~ a chance if it gets a few breaks. "We can be very competitive, and ifwe can get some upsets, we'll be in the running. Evansville is another team to watch, because they arc always in the top four, and so they're in the same boat we arc." 
see IRISH, page 14 
Joe Nelligan produces in high-pressure position 
By MIKE CARNEY 
Sports Writer 

As the weather takes a turn for the better and the season changes 
to spring, many a thought turns to baseball. getting a nice suntan and 
summer vacation. It also is a time for tennis, and hard-working Irish 
captain Joe Nelligan is well on his way to completing another suc­
cessful sea~on. 

'Ibe junior from La Grange Park, III., ha~ been playing the No. I or 
No. 2 spot for the Irish since arriving here as a freshman. One would 
think this would put a lot ofpressure on Nelligan to perform. and he 
ha~ responded successfully with a 37-28 cumulative singles record 
and an impressive 28-fl doubles record. 

Nelligan's success can be attributed to two major fuctors: his 
punishing serve and volley game and his intensity on the court. Irish 
coach Tom Fallon calls Nelligan "a good all around player with a lot 
ofexperience and maturity." 

Fallon goes on to say that the best part ofNelligan's game is his big 
first serve and excellent net play. llnfortunately, the weather has 
been an intervening factor this year and Nelligan hasn't gotten in as 
much practice ao; he'd like. 

"Joe's game depends on very precise shots which require a lot of practice," Fallon says. "He just hasn't been able to get in enough see NELLIGAN, page 14 
Friday, April 19, 1985-page 20 

Byrne's By-Products upsets Still Virtually Unknown by 9 
By BRIAN McCARTHY 
Sports Writer 
For the second day in a row a seeded team was forced to make an early exit from Bookstore XIV com­petition as Still Virtually Unknown was upset by Byrne's By-Products, 21-12. Still Virtually Unknown reached the final 32 lao;t year but fell victim to poor shooting yesterday, hitting only 12-of-40 from the field. 
The By-Products jumped out to a 7-3 lead to put their larger oppo­nents in a hole early. In the second half, the winners utilized sharp passes to get open shots and ag­gressive defense to cause several turnovers. AI Martin, John Murillo and Mike O'Grady contributed to Byrne's By-Products' balanced scoring. 
A large and vocal crowd turned out to see Tofu Vegetables I down Two Ionic, Two Doric and One Corinthian by a score of 21-18. Tofu Vegetables, a team made of five in­tense freshmen, offset Barry Spen-
Notre Dame lacrosse team heads to big conference game at Denison 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team, 
which has had little trouble winning 
its first four games against Midwest 
opponents, faces a very important 
game tomorrow when it travels to 
Granville, Ohio to take on a tough 
Denison team. 
Although five games remain on the Irish schedule, the matchup against the Big Red is a crucial game for both teams as they, as well as Ohio Wesleyan, compete for the dis­tinction of being the best lacrosse team in the Midwest. Notre Dame currently is right in the thick of the 
Mike Stock builds up his tight ends and receivers 
By TRISH SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
Take the task of replacing an all­America tight end -not an enviable one in itself. But then, one by one, your top starters succumb to injur­ies. Before you know it, your starting quater-back is in another state recovering from surgery. Not the best of starts for the spring football session, but that is exactly what of­fensive coordinator and receiver coach Mike Stock is staring in the face with just two weeks of spring ball to go. 
"Our passing game is not par­ticularily well improved so far due to two main reasons," explains Stock. "First of all spring ball is for the fundementals so we are stressing the running game foremost. Secondly, due to our injuries, we've had to place younger kids into spots where veterans would usually be. Obviously, this limits your prog­
ress . ., 
But as Stock is quick to note, this difficult situation does have it.-; ad­vantages. With the top prospects sit­ting out of the action the coaches have had an opportunity to see the underclassmen display their talents. 
One such plea~ant suprise has 
see STOCK, page 18 
canned 9-of-13 and Tom Antonini dropped 6-of-9. 
Ed Smierciak and 4 Other Guys Better lban John Paxson was the only other seeded team to play yes­terday, and it showed no mercy at all in routing DM3 B, 21-2. Ken Schuer­mann popped in 9· basket.~ in 13 tries. 
Post Consumptory White Castle Movements bowed out ofthe tourn­ament by absorbing a 21-fl beating from Dribbling Dyxz ll. lbe Dyxz shot <; 1 times, led by Pete Herbert's 7-of-12, before scoring for the 21st time. 
Nobody's laughing any more as Don't Laugh sprinted to a 21-S vic­tory over Crimes Against Nature. Pat Hanrahan and Pat Pesavento combined for 14 point.~ for the win­ners. 
Five Guys With Packages Even the Mailman Can't Carry may be too much for the postal workers but Return ofQueefhandled them with-
see BOOKSTORE, page 18 

cer's I 0 baskets for Two Ionic. . . with seven hoops from Matt Hanley and six more from Paul Reuvers. 
Spencer's team trailed by six at the half but managed to cut it to one at 17-16. The enthusia~m of the younger players payed off late in the game when a steal was turned into a fa~tbreak lay-up for the 20th point, ending their opponent's final threat. 
Bookstore XIV 
Another seeded team, Red Barons, struggled early but eventually soured Sweet Lou's Wild Kingdom, 21-8. Sweet Lou's opened the game with good shooting to take a surpris­ing 5-4 lead. After settling down, the Barons took advantage of their su­perior height as Marty Roddy 
race with its 4-0 Midwest Lacrosse Association record, while Denison and Ohio Wesleyan also are unde­feated in four MLA games. 
"I would say that this is a 'must' win for us," says Irish coach Rich O'Leary, who is hoping that his team can successfully defend its MLA title. "Whoever wins this game will be in the best position to determine their own fate." 
Unfortunately for O'Leary, some things beyond his control -namely, injuries -have put the Irish at a dis­tinct disadvantage against the Big Red. Midfielder Tom Grote, who is currently fourth on the team in scoring with four goals and eight as­sist..~. will not make the trip and may miss more than a week because of soreness in a knee that he injured in the off-season. 


Additionally, attackman John Mcla<:hlan, who tied a school scoring record record with six goals and two assists last weekend at Wooster, sprained his ankle in practice on Monday and is question­able for tomorrow's game. 
"Without either of those guys. everyone is going w have to play a little harder." says O'Leary. "We can't make many mistakes, and we have to capitalize on whatever 
see LACROSSE, page 17 

Don Antrobus of Sweet Lou's Wild Kingdcnn protects the ball from john Stein of Red Baron.s in Bookstore XIV action on the Bookstore courts yesterday. Brian McCarthy gives a rundown of the tourney excitement in hts story above. 


