~ -----~ 
MTV tonight -page 5 

VOL XIX, NO. 133 !he independelll ~!udenl Ill'\\ ~paper ~l'f\ mg nolrt dame ;llld ~aim man·~ WEDNESDAY, APRIL 24, 1985 

HPC to ask administration 'Why?' about rectors 
By SCOTT BEARBY In addition to being upset over University criteria should be made what type of rector they wish to model. He received honorable men­Assistant News Editor the mutual decision made by Tyson known to the students. have. tion for the rector of the year award and Gibson to have Gibson give up Mimi Soule, Lewis Hall president, Before Thursday, the hall presi­this year and is a past recipient ofthe 
The recent alleged firing of Car­his Carroll post, Kearns is angry over stated hall officers run under the as­dents will sponsor discussions on honor. roll Hall Rector Father Steve Gibson lack of administration response to sumption they will be working with what role a rector should have in "Father Steve cares about his resi­and the lack of published criteria by questions as to how Gibson was inef­the same rector. When a new rector their respective dorms. A combined dents," said Lyons Hall President which the University chooses and fective as a rector and how the Uni­is hired without any input from the statement will be given to Tyson on Joan Cahill, adding that she did not evaluates rectors prompted the Hall versity determines what rectors students, there may be a conflict of Friday. see how this did not fit the Univer­Presidents' Council to address the should be hired. _, ideas between the students and rec­Morrissey Hall President Mark sity mold. issue at their meeting last night. An tor. Peabody suggested some type ofstu­Kearn felt a specific type ofrector
According to Kearns, no public

official statement will be given to Farley President Colleen Nolan dent evaluation of rectors be in­may be difficult to find since each
statement about how a rector fits the 
Vice President for Student Affairs added that this situation can lead to a itiated so the administration can hall has its individual character. He
University mold has been released. 
Father David Tyson later this week. stress which the hall does not need. compare their standards with those stated that he doesn't want his rec­
Almost one-third of campus rec-

Carroll President Steve Kearns Soule suggested that rector of the students. Soule and other tor to fit such a mold if it means 
brought up the fact that Gibson is tors will be leaving at the end of this changes be made known before hall members of the council agreed. sacrificing individuality. stepping down from his position be­year. Because of the substantial elections so hall government will The HPC will be looking to single HPC Chairman Kevin Howard cause he "does not fit the mold" of a number of new rectors coming into not encounter any surprises, and so out qualities which make a rector ef­rector in the University's eyes. their positions,. the HPC feels the they might possibly have a say in fective; they feel Gibson is a good see RECTOR, page 3 
Nicaraguan insurgents denied aid by Congress 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON The 
Democratic-controlled House last 
night rejected 248-180 President 
Reagan's proposal for $14 million in 
direct military aid to Contra insur­
gents seeking to overthrow the lef­
tist government of Nicaragua. The 
same resolution was approved 53­
46 by the Republican-led Senate 
only a few hours earlier. 
Combined, the two votes set up a 
continuing congressional debate 
over whether to allow Reagan to 
provide non-lethal assistance to the 
rebels. 
.;.~ ""'' 
In both houses, Reagan won some additional support with a last­minute pledge to reopen. direct negotiations between the United 
Swtnging (for a) single
States and the Sandinista govern­
Action yesterday in the third annual Ben Cunningham
ment, a key issue in Democratic op­
Memorial softball tournament sponsored by Holy Cross Hall, as
position to Reagan's policy toward 
Pangborn takes on Dillon. Fifteen teams are competing in the 
Central America. 


Reagan also promised not to use the money for military aid until the end of the current fiscal year on Sept. 30. 
The House vote was the first of three on aid to the Contras, and the two remain:ng alternatives were ex­pected to be much closer when votes are taken today. 
One choice sponsored by House Democrats would require that the SI4 million be spent through the United Nations or the International Red Cross for Nicaraguan refugees and to enforce any peace negotiated by countries in the Central American reJtion. 
The second alternative, proposed by House Republican leader Robert Michel of Illinois and supported by the president, would give recogni­tion to the Contras by distributing non-lethal aid to them through the United States Agency for Interna­tional Development. 
In the Senate, 43 Republicans and I 0 Democrats voted for the Contra aid proposal; 3 7 Democrats and nine Republicans voted against. Sen. John East, R-N.C., did not vote because he is in the hospital. 
Specifically, the Senate approved an appropriation for "military or 
see AJD, page 3 


Faculty opinions mixed about ND policies 
Editor's Note: This is parttwo ofa also leave blacks vulnerable to the "Constructive engagement, the Believing immediate action to be four part series dealing with the larger structures of apar­Sullivan Principles, and the vital, Professor Walshe said, "The problems in South Africa and the theid,"Walshe said. European Economic Community's political situation is fluid right now. relation ofthis conflict to the Notre "The guidelines enable U.S. cor­codes for corporate conduct have At this point, corporations should Dame community. Today's story porations to invest in South Africa done more to bring to world atten­put additional pressure on the l(ivesfaculty views on the subject. and salve their consciences," said tion the plight of South African government." 
John Gilligan, O'Malley professor of blacks," Murphy explained. Change in South Africa will come 
By DOUG HASLER 
law. either slowly over several decades 
StaffReporter Stockholders, such as the Univer­
Yet, the Sullivan Principles can or quickly in a bloody and violent 
sity of Notre Dame, who invest in
also be viewed as an impetus for al­civil war, the professors predicted.
Faculty members at Notre Dame U.S. corporations with holdings in
tering the structures of apartheid, Williams is cautiously optimistic 
and Saint Mary's have mixed South Africa have been encouraged about South Africa's future. "Theyopinions about ·the University's 
to consider divesting themselves of (the Sullivan Principles) are slowlypolicy of investing in corporations such stock as a strategy to pressure and progressively giving rights to which do business in South Africa. corporations and the South African 
South blacks. I confess I can't see the light
Notre Dame follows a 1978 policy government to grant more rights to at the end of the tunnel. But, it is of investing in corporations which Africa blacks. 
marvelous what has happened in have signed the Sullivan Principles, a As a general principle, Gilligan this country over the last 30 years."

Investments
list of guidelines mostly concerned said such stock should be divested, with the treatment of black workers depending on the magnitude of a Gilligan, on the other hand, in South African business opera-company's holdings in South Africa, foresees violence for the racially tions. according to Father Oliver Williams, and how much stock an individual troubled country. "The dominant 
Peter Walshe, professor of associate professor of management. investor owns. political faction seems determined government and international "Currently," Williams said, Professor of government and law to resist change, no matter what," studies and director of African "blacks are being trained to manage, Donald Kommers discounted the Gilligan said. "This can only result in studies, said he believes the and they are receiving equal pay. It is simplicity of divestment, stating, increasing violence on the part of guidelines are inadequate to qualify a catalyst for change." · "I'm not sure I would oppose those in government and those who investment in a multinational cor­Saint Mary's government profes­owning stock in a company even ifit are trying to change things." poration that operates in South sor )ames Murphy said the Sullivan does not uphold the Sullivan Prin­"As long as South Africa is a Africa. Principles promote greater under­ciples. Only by knowing the conse­respected member of the world 
"They (the Sullivan Principles standing in the western world ofthe quences of disinvestment can one community, I don't think things will desegregate the workplace, but they situation blacks face in South Africa. judge the morality." improve," he added. 

Wednesday, April24, 1985-page 2
The Observer 




In Brief 
Professor Howard Adams, executive director of the National Consortium for Graduate Degrees for Minorities in Engineering Inc. (GEM), has announced the appointment of Martha Conley as Coordinator, Student Programs, effective July 1, 1985. GEM, headquartered at Notre Dame, is a consortium of 48 univer­sities and 50 industrial/governmental employers formed in 1976 to provide minority engineering students from throughout the United States with graduate study opportunities at member universities. ·7be Observer 
Of Interest 
Charles Murray, author of "Losing Ground: American Social Policy, 1950-1980," will present a public talk at 7:30 Wednes­day night in the Ubrary Auditorium. The talk Is part of the Public Policy Workshop of the department ofeconomics.-7be Observer 
Kevin Herbert, the Notre Dame freshman who won the Rock-Alike contest here, will appear tonight on MTV between 6 and 
6:30 with Nina Blackwood. Herbert will compete in the Rock-Alike finals before the Tommy Shaw concert. -7be Observer 
The Vietnam War will be the topic of a lecture by Charles Tull, professor of history at Indiana University, tonight at 
7:30 in Saint Mary's Carroll Hall. This month marks the I Oth anniver­sary of the end of the Vietnam War, and Tull's lecture will be an appraisal of the war after I 0 years. Tull holds a doctorate from Notre Dame and is the author of numerous publications dealing with American history. The lecture is sponsored by Saint Mary's depart· ment ofhistory and is open to the public at no charge.· The Observer 
Saint Mary's English department instruc­
tor and poet Phyllis Moore will read from her poetry today at 4:30 on the second floor mezzanine ofCushwa-Leighton Library. The poetry reading is sponsored by the English department. -7be Observer 
An Tostal Chairman Armando Byrne will be the guest on WVFI-AM's 'Campus Perspectives' tonight at 9. Co-hosts of the weekly radio show are John Deckers and Lori Kluczyk; listeners can call 239-6400 with questions or comments. -7be Observer 
Anyone who missed Tommy Shaw ticket distribu­tion can pick up a ticket in the student government office, second floor LaFortune. -The Observer 
A prayer for peace wm be held tonight at 9:3o at the Grotto. The service will be led by Father Stephen Gibson. -7be Ob­server 
There will be a Senior Class Partytonight 
from 9 to 1 at the Saint Mary's Clubhouse. There will be a 53 charge for all you can drink or S I for non-drinkers. The party is sponsored by the Saint Mary's senior class officers. -The Observer 

Weather 
Burn relieffor those who need it. A 40 percent chance of morning showers today with highs in the mid to upper 60s. Decreasing cloudiness and cooler tonight with lows in the mid to upper 40s. Partly sunny and mild Thursday with highs in the mid to upper 60s. -AP 

The Observer 
Tbe Obeerver (liSPS ~99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays. except during exam and vacation periods. Tbe Obeerver is publls.,.,d by t.,., students of rhe IJnJvel3iry of Norrc l>ame and Sainr Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for no per year ( 1.20 per..,. mesrer) by writing Tbe Obeerver, P.O. 
Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 46~~6. 
1be Obeener Is a member of Tbe 

AMocblkd PreM. All reproduction 
rights are reservt'd 
Today's issue was produced by: 

Design Editor............................... Andy Saal Design Assistant ............... : .... Alex Peltzer U.ynut Staff..................... 'l'racy Schindele Typesetters ............................... Vic Guarino 
Cathyann Reynolds News Editor.................... Bob Mussel mann Copy Editor................................ John Hines Sports Copy Editor..... Eric Scheuermann Viewpoint Copy Editor. Mary Ellen Har· 
ringron 
Viewpoint Layout ................ Carol Brown Features Copy Editor .......... Teresa Keefe Features Layout.. ........ Jane Ann Riedford ND Day Editor............... Cindy Rockhorst SMC Day Editor............................ Ed Nolan Ad Design ................................. Fred Nelson Pbotograpber ........................... Paul Kraser 



Recipe for a good time: Watch hockey, enjoy 
An excerpt from my favorite cookbook: 
Take 12 slightly crazed French Canadians wielding longpieces oftimber. Adda slab ofice, a frozen rubber disc, and three men in zebra-striped shirts. Let stand for half a year, then gently stir in 15,000 noisy fanatics. As a final touch, add a dash of champagne from Lord Stanley's favorite mugfor incentive. 
That, for the uninitiated, is the formula for The Playoffs, National Hockey League style. For the last six months, the NHL's 21 teams have skated their way through 80 regular season games. Now it's time to find a champion. , 
The race for the right to drink from the Stanley Cup, hockey's equivalent of the Super Bowl, generates more excitement in Canada than a Billy Joel concert does at Notre Dame. But here in the States, hockey is only mar­ginally more popular than Walter Mondale. 
Part of the reason for all this hockey apathy may be ignorance. But with teams in 14 cities across the country and various cable "super systems" beaming games to virtually 


Keith Harrison News Editor 

around an oval roller rink, scoring points by cruising past opponents without getting knocked into the audience. It is a fairly violent sport, with ridiculous referees who ignore rule violations. 
Hockey rarely gets as silly as roller derby, but there are similarities. For instance, the average hockey player does not think twice before whacking an opponent across the shins with his stick, an act commonly known as slashing. And just as in roller derby, every time one player knocks another on his wallet the crowd goes 
wild. 
Granted, when things get 
dirty and the players start 
taking cheapshots, hockey becomes a parody of itself, as it was in the movie "Slapshot." But when played properly, it combines excitement and grace like no other sport around. 
So the Great Hockey Mys­tery continues. People"have yet to realize that spring means more than just the opening of baseball season or young men thinking of love. It also means the Stan­ley Cup playoffs. Certainly, 
the neck as watching ping­
pong. 
Football is a different story. With bone-crunching blocks and tackles, it at· tracts basically the same type of person who goes to hockey games. But football games are only once a week, and the season ended way back in January. 

It isn't that hockey is hard to understand, either. In fact, hockey is quite simple ifit is looked at as a hybrid of soccer and roller derby. 
In theory, hockey is a lot like the intricate game of soccer. The purpose of soccer is to score a goal by maneuvering a ball around opponents and kicking it past a goaltender. The team with the most goals wins. Hockey is just about the same thing, except it's played on ice. Also, instead ofkicking a ball, hockey players use a stick to hit a piece offrozen vulcanized rubber called the puck. 
In practice, however, hockey often has more in com­mon with the rough'n'tumble sport ofroller derby. Rol­ler derby, for those who never called New York City home, is the ultimate in circus sports. Players skate there are other diversions, 
but do you really want to 
spit watermelon seeds com­

petitively at An Tostal? All right then, why not give hockey a try? ' 
The Observer publishes its official opinion in the form of an unsigned, large-print, wide­column article on the Viewpointpage. These columns represent the opinion of a majority of The Observer editorial board. All other columns, on the Viewpoint page or ot­herwise, are the views of their authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board or The Observer staff. 
Mr. Goodbar 
The ship is steady, so don't you fail, indeed it moves, but will not sail. The ship she docks in a foreign land, where Mr. Goodbar is the only man. 
When found-not before -call to verify: Mark or Paul at 


•r...-.._..-.._..-........-._..........-.._..-._...._.......-............-...-....-..._.-...-...._-.._......-._..._1 f 


Attention Sophomores 
Place your ring order before you leave 
11 
I 
I 


for SUMMER VACATION~ This will assure you of having it when you return to school in the fall. • 
1 HOURS: 1:00 P.M. to 4:30P.M. 
1 Monday -Friday I 
IN THE OFFICE ON THE FIRST FLOOR 
I 

HAMMES NOTRE-DAME BOOKSTORE
l_---------------­
everywhere, most people are probably familiar with hockey. 
Maybe the competition is too stiff. For most of the season, hockey competes with basketball and football for a sports fan's cash and at­tention. Basketball, however, suffers from al· most as much of an identity cns1s as hockey does. Besides, all those end-to-end scoring drives make watch­ing basketball as rough on 

The Observer Wednesday, April24, 1985-page 3 

Senior Ted Klaus stands byhis vehicleat the third peted in the weekend all-expense paid event after annual National Collegiate Driving Champion­winning the competition at Notre Dame last ships held April 14 and 15 in Daytona Beach, semester. "/really didn't do too well,"Klaus said of Florida. Klaus was among 80 students who com-the experience, "butI bada good time." 
Ruckelshaus, former EPA chief, contrasts past agency experiences 
Italian union president speaks about peace 
By MICHAEL}. CHMIEL "testing, deployment, and research StaffReporter in the field of both nuclear and con­ventional weapons." He also alluded 
Hoping to encourage a new al­to the possibility of a Reagan­liance for those who are concerned Gorbachev summit. about the quest for peace throug­"I believe that it (a summit) is a hout the world, Domenico Rosati, possibility and that there seems to president of the Italian Christian be interest on both sides that this Workers Association, addressed a happens," said Rosati. press conference yesterday after­The prevailing opinion overseas noon prior to a private seminar he of Reagan and U.S. foreign policy is gave to University faculty members. critical, Rosati said. He expl;li.ned 
Rosati, speaking through an inter­that many see confrontations 
1 

preter, called for increased efforts to .throughout the world as confronta­
1 

become united in the search for tions between the two superpowers. 
i 

peace and in the determent of "They (those overseas) are very 
j

nuclear weapons. critical especially about the fact that "The basic motive for me being American foreign policy seems to 
~ 

here is to see ifit is possible to begin begin from a deductive position that to build up a new alliance," said very often is not founded on certain Rosati. "We have tried to stop the principles," Rosati said. 
1,

arms race, we have tried to block the In regard to the state of his own deployment of weapons in the East country, Rosati strongly supported and in the West, and now, we are the idea ofa democracy and believes 1 trying to answer the proposed star this form of government is working 
1

wars." well in Italy. He explained that all of 
Rosati's organization maintains an the different factions in Italy have important role in Italian society by been faithful to their democratic influencing people in each of the government ever since the adoption diverse political parties which exist of a democratic constitution in the there. Although his group is rooted late 1940s. in Christian thought, they are able to "Over the years, both com­reach out to all sectors of their ponents of Italian society-the Com­society with the intention ofeducat­munists and the Catholics -have ing in regard to a need for peace. always had difficult moments but 
Rosati chose to come to the have always made references back United States and visit with many to the democratic constitution. key leaders who share his desire to They have been loyal to it." achieve peace. He believes that al­Rosati believes there has been a though the language is different, the greater effort in the Church for objectives ofhis group are similar to peace recently and he supports this those ofother groups, and a dialogue effort. needs to be established in order to "Ever since Vatican II and Pope make advances. John XXIII, there has been a greater 
"Unfortunately, we have been emphasis on the part of Catholics in unable to coordinate our actions in regard to the values ofpeace and the the last years," said Rosati. "We can values of social justice and the fight build up a new alliance by varifying against terrorism," said Rosati. what we're thinking about and what He also explained that the tradi­we think our objectives are. We tional idea of peace as the fruit of need to see what kind of initiatives justice has changed to an idea of we're going to take." justice as the fruit of peace. With 
With respect to U.S.-Soviet rela­this, the notion a just war must be tions, Rosati called for a freeze on relinquished, he explained. 
By MARY CAROL CREADON 
SeniorStaffReporter 
Public involvement in environ­mental issues is the answer to En­vironmental Protection Agency effectiveness, said former EPA ad­ministrator William Ruckelshaus at last night's public talk in Washington Hall. 
The agency's first administrator in 1970 and fifth in 1984, following Ann Burford's resignation, con­trasted the issues facing the EPA in the 1970s with those of the 1980s. 
When the agency was formed in 1970, said Ruckelshaus, the United States faced serious environmental problems with conventional pol­lutants in air,land and water. 
"The people in Denver were desiring to see the mountains again while the people in L.A. were desir­ing to see each other," Ruckelshaus joked. 
The EPA was created to imple­ment the new environmental laws such as the Clean Water Act of 1972 which called for "fishable and swim­mabie" waters, said Ruckelshaus. 
"Great progress" was made with these conventional pollutants. Yet these issues were secondary to the newer, deadlier pollutants un­covered since the 1970s such as acid rain and toxic waste, he said. 
Ruckelshaus said these "second 
generation issues" are so much 

WHY CORNELL? 
A great location. Study at one of the most beautiful Ivy League campuses and spend the ~mmer in the magnificent countryside of the Finger Lakes region. Loc-ated on forty.mile-long. Cayug;l Lake. Ithaca is asmall cosmopolitan city with restaurants, nightlife and aU the urban 
advantages. 

A great university. Choose from a remarkable variety of courses and learning opportunities­more than 300 courses taught by distinguished Cornell faculty members. The curriculum in­dudes computer science, fine arts, pre-law and pre-med studies, and languages. Sign up for a few weeks or the entire summer. Courses are offered in three-, six-, and eight-week sessions. ' 
A great adventure. Explore beautiful lakes and parks, spectacular waterfall'i and ravines. Enjoy swimming, sailing, tennis, golf, climbing, t.-amping. soaring, bikinR. birdiOR. and hiking. A rich and lively schedule of free outdoor. con­certs and theater makes C.omell an ideal place 
to meet people and make friends. 
Why Comelll Because we love summer as much as you do. Make plans now. For a copy of the 1985 Summer Ses.'iion Annoupcement call or write: 
CorneD Univmity Summer Session 
Box 84, 812 Ives Hall 
ltlw.:a. New York 14853-3901 
607/2~7 
' 

these newer pollutants cause cancer and reproductive defects, definitive action by the EPA on these issues is complicated by the public's mistrust ofthe agency. 
Ruckelshaus explained the EPA is being sued by the public and in­dustry ''80 percent of the time" be­cause there are so many conflicting interests. 
The only way progress will be made is ifthe American people learn to trust that the EPA is doing the right thing. Ruckelshaus stressed the public must gain a level of under­standing ofthe environmental issues and the real options from which the EPA has to choose. 
It will take time before all of society recognizes the environment need not be exploited for economic growth, he said, but "we do not have that much time to get these pol­lutants under control in the context offreedom." 
The EPA needs to devise a system through legislation by which the people will be forced "to respond to the real choices," said Ruckelshaus. 
Rector 
continuedfrom page 1 
thinks the group of hall presidents can make positive steps in getting the administration to divulge what they want in a rector, therefore hel­ping to determine why Gibson did not meet the criteria. 
Howard plans to invite Tyson to the next HPC meeting to inform him of the council's concerns about the undefined rector criteria. 
In other business, Howard an­nounced that tomorrow is the last day to donate blood if it is to be counted on hall totals. Anyone can donate tomorrow between 1:30 and 3:30p.m. at the infirmary. 
This week's speakers featured Freshmen Orientation co-Chairman Peggy Hess and Transfer Orientation Chairman Mark Facet. 
Aid 
continuedfrom page 1 
paramilitary operations in Nicaragua." 
But Reagan promised in a letter delivered to Senate Majority Leader Robert Dole only a few hours before the vote that he would use the funds only for non-lethal purposes for the rest ofthe fiscal year ending Sept. 30. 
Despite Democratic skepticism about Reagan's intentions, Dole said, "I think we can trust the word ofthe president ofthe United States." 
Still to come late last night was a tougher challenge for Reagan in the Democratic-controlled House where the president's proposal to aid the Contras faced likely defeat. 
Reagan's letter was a surprise, and marked an open, last-minute effort to sway wavering senators and House members to his side in a highly-emotional legislative battle reminiscent of the early years of the Vietnam War era. 
"I think the president's letter was a carefully-crafted attempt to get bipartisan support," said Dole. 
As the debate closed, Vice Presi­dent George Bush -in his role as president ofthe Senate -was on hand in the event he was needed to break a tie vote. 
In his letter to Dole, Reagan said, "I intend to resume bilateral talks with the government of Nicaragua and will instruct our representatives in those talks to press for a cease-fire as well as (Roman Catholic) church­mediated dialogue between the con­tending Nicaraguan factions." 


College of Science Student Council announces the 1985 Dean's Run 
Distance:  71un (twlc:e around  
thelak•)  
Date:  Sunday, April 28  
Time:  12:00noon  
Registration  
Fee:  $4.00  

• 
Tee-shirts for all registrants 

• 
Please register by Friday April 26 at 5pm in the Dean's Office, 229 NSH 



By BUD LUEPKE 
SeniorStaffReporter 
America's top living air ace, retired Col. Francis Gabreski spoke last night on topics of God, country and war. Recalling several war stories, Gabreski's lecture focused on the timely use of war in defense ofvalues. 
Gabreski was a sophomore at Notre Dame when he joined the Air Force in 1940. "I knew America would get into the war eventually 
l 
~ 
r r 
r 
' 
r 
r r 
r 
r r 
r 
The Observer Wednesday, April24, 1985-page 4 
Retired ace discusses experiences, God, country, war 
Associated Press 
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. Former Sen. Sam ). Ervin Jr., the self-styled "country lawyer" whose homespun humor, animated eyebrows, and love of the Constitution made him a folk hero when he presided over the Senate Watergate hearings, died of respiratory failure yesterday. He was88. 
Ervin died at about 4; 15 p.m at Bowman Gray Medical Center at 
N.C. Baptist Hospital in Winston­Salem, according to Roger Rol­lman, a spokesman at the hospital. 
"The cause of death was attributed by his doctors to respiratory failure which developed during the day," Rol­lman said. "The kidney failure for 

Hogs run wild after train wreck 
Associated Press 
SULLIVAN, Ind.-Between 10 and 20 hogs died, and another 200 ran loose In the countryside south of Sullivan yesterday after a stock truck collided with a freight train, Indiana State Police said. 
SMCcouncil 
•

surveying students' drinking 
By MAE WHITEMAN 
News Staff 
Saint Mary's Alcohol Education Council is conducting a random­sample survey of 400 Saint Mary's students concerning drinking habits, but "Notre Dame's alcohol policy has nothing to do with our survey," said Pat Rissmeyer, the director of resident life and housing at the College. 
Council member Molly Sullivan said, "This is a follow-up survey. The first survey was taken in 1979. We want to find out about the drinking habits of our students and what our students need to know about al­cohol. For example, do our students realize that coffee does not sober a person?" 
The council plans to build a program more suited to students' needs. In the future, they may aid with family drinking problems or or­ganize non-alcoholic social programs. 
"We want to see what impact our previous program has had. It will give us hard data," Sullivan said. 
The surveying started at the beginning of this year, and surveys are due this Friday. 
The council hopes to have the data organized by the end of this semester since the programming Is being done by hand. 
and I wanted to make sure I was fighting it in the air not on the ground", he said. 
Gabreski was in Hawaii when the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor. 
In 1943, Gabreski was sent to England, and in 1944, he volun­teered to lead his squadron into Ger­many. After bombing an air field, he was forced to make a crash landing. He was a prisoner of war for 1 0 months. 
During his tour in the European Theater of Operations, Gabreski 
Granger Tap and Grill 
32 oz. Sirloin for two ....... $15.95 Prime Rib . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9.75 12 oz. Lobster Tall .... Market Price 
Come have breakfast, lunch or dinner. Cocktails and Sandwiches anytime! Watch the game on our 60 inch TV screen 
Mon.-Sat. 6am-11pm Sun. 8am-9pm 12797 St. Road 23 277-6812 

which Mr. Ervin was admitted to the center was a significant con­tributing factor in the death." 
Rollman said Ervin, who became ill March 30, was suffering from ab­dominal pain, emphysema and an infected ~1 bladder. 
"He underwent surgery for the gall bladder," Rollman said. "His post-op course became compl­icated by kidney failure leading to his transfer to the Winston-Salem medical center Monday." 
Ervin was moved from Grace Hospital in Morganton to Bowman Gray on Monday suffering from acute renal failure after it was determined he needed more spe­destroyed 31 enemy fighters in aerial combat and three more on the ground. In Korea, Gabreski claimed 
cialized  treatment  than  was  
available  at  Grace,  said  Mary  
McBride, his secretary.  

6.5 more enemy jets and became the eighth "jet ace" in history with over 5000 hours flying time, 4000 of which were in a jet. 
Gabreski said his beliefin God and country helped him avoid the dangers of fear and fright when facing death. 
One of his narrowest escapes oc­curred when his plane began to smoke with a German pilot in pur-
During his 20 years in the Senate, Ervin was both a critic-of civil rights legislation and a cham­pion ofcivil liberties. He fought af­firmative action proposals, battled efforts to return prayer to public school, and exposed military sur­veillance of anti-war protesters and other dissenters during the Vietnam War era. 
His strict interpretation of the Constitution defied easy political classification. He sided with both liberals and conservatives in be­coming one of the chamber's most respected authorities on constitu­tional law. 
That independence made him a natural choice when Senate leaders cast about for someone to chair the sensitive and potentially explosive hearings on Watergate in the summer of 1973. 
suit. Gabreski said he prayed, "Lord, I am now in your hands." Gabreski's fear left him, and he put his plane in a tail spin to fool his adversary and escape in a cloud. 
Among many othc:r awards, 
Gabreski has received the Distin­
guished Service Medal, the Distin­
guished Service Cross, and the 
Bronze Star, as well as other decora­
tions from Great Britian, France, Bel­
gium, and Poland. 
Gabreski said· he fought against "the eneinies of freedom" and for "the defense ofChristianity". He said that while war should only be used as a last resort, it should not be avoided when values of God and country are at stake. 
"Timely application of force of arms can be morally justified when other methods cannot. It comes down to a matter of civilization or no civilization". 
Gabreski said it was up to the stu­dents of universities such as Notre Dame to help insure peace in the future. He appealed to international law and negotiations, but said that too many times after a just war, "we have come away from negotiations without a piece ofthe peace table" 
Notre Da•eAvenue ApartDients 
NOWJIENTllVGFORFALL 
Completely furnished, balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES 
(good dea,.for SummerSealon) Ofllce at 820 ND Ave 
or caD 
open Mon-Frl3-6pm 
234-6647
Sat 11-3pm 

WANT A QUICKY? 
Quick tans in our boothes without that sweaty feeling! 
It's never too late to be a bronze God or Goddess 
1M-HAWA1fM ~..
J.M.S. PLAZA ~ 
4609 Grape Road Mishawaka UVB boothes & UVA beds 
Engineers and scientists should also contribute to peace efforts. In times of national emergency, he said, "high technology has never failed us." He said the atomic bomb saved thousands of lives and that it was best for America to use it first because Hitler was so close to having it. 
Gabreski stressed faith in God and values of freedom and democracy. But he also stressed the need to defend these beliefs against other beliefs existing "where vodka and caviar flow freely and human minds do not". 
Gabreski's lecture was sponsored by the Air Force ROTC. 
After a question and answer ses­sion, Gabreski was given an Air Force ROTC jacket and a diploma. 
Help the 
<4> 
March of Dimes 
Fight Birth Defects 

Dispatcher Joe Watts said the hogs were being transported in a tractor-trailer rig driven by James Kemp, 24, of Spragueville, Idaho, when the truck collided with a Seaboard System train. The accident occurred about 5:30a.m. on U.S. 41 just south of the city, Watts said. 
"Approximately 219 hogs escaped from the stock trailer. A few hogs were dead at the scene and the rest are running loose," Watts said. 
He added that officials weren't sure exactly how many hogs were killed. 
Watergate figure Ervin dead at 88 

--~-----­
---~-~ ---­
-----------------------..., 

Accent 
Wednesday, April24, 1985-page 5 

Star from Stanford surfaces on MlVtonight 
MS committee publicized the event.Karen McCloskey "People had told me I look like 
Bruce Springsteen," Herbert said. "And I like Bruce so I thought I'd give it a shot and be Bruce for a 

rrtommy Shaw may not be the versity's victory over 12 other song." 
features staff writer 
J. star in this weekend's MTV bash schools in the MS fundraiser drive..: Herbert was introduced to 
at the ACC. The life of the party is Although the performers will be Springsteen music by his elder likely to be a Domer from New judged by a panel offive judges brother, Gus, who also lives in Jersey. His name is Kevin and he including Tommy Shaw, Nina Black­Stanford. looks like just another guy from the wood, and MS Organizer Bev In preparation for the perfor­
Garden State -until he does his Noyes, Herbert said, "The biggest mance, Herbert said he will per­magic transformation. He becomes thing for me is the student support form "Born in The U.S.A." "I listen The Boss. at this thing. I want everybody to let to the song a couple of times a day. I 
Herbert, a.k.a. Bruce Springsteen, MTV know that there is support of look in the mirror to see ifthe was the winner ofNotre Dame's their candidate." He hopes "the 12 words, the lip sync, is right. The key Rock-Alike contest, and will million american households was getting the words down, but represent the University in the watching have a good impression of the biggest problem was getting national Rock-Alike finals to be held the MS campaign, because they're used to the guitar." before the Shaw concert Saturday trying to expand it for next year." Herbert doesn't plan to do anyth­night. ing special for Saturday night. "I just 
In anticipation ofhis perfor­His competition includes "a try to put myselfin Bruce mance, MTV took Kevin Herbert, a really good Billy Idol from the Springsteen's shoes," Herbert said. Stanford Hall freshman, to dinner University oflowa and a girl from "We look alike, plus we're the same on Monday evening. Then they took the University ofWisconsin as height and from the same state." him to lunch on Tuesday. Then they Cyndi I..auper." Herbert added, "I think about the words in the introduced him to a girl named "altogether there are three Billy song," Herbert continued. "I think Nina and put him in front ofa Idols, another Bruce, Huey Lewis, about what he's saying about Viet­camera. Better than that, they did and MickJagger" among the com­nam vets. There's a lot ofemotion. all that in New York City. And best petition. Itgets me psyched up." of all, you can see it on television. But Herbert is confident he has at 
least a 50-50 chance, because "I do Ifhe wins this final round of 

Tonight at 6 o'clock, MTV will look a lot like Bruce." He even competition, Herbert will receive a broadcast a Nina Blackwood inter­wants to work an American flag into paid internship with MTV in New view with Notre Dame's own Boss. his act. "I think it will really be an York City this summer. Because 
Monday morning, Kevin was awesome performance. IfI don't New York is fairly close to Rumson, already mentally preparingfor the knock the microphone over when I NewJersey, home the real Boss, Rock-Alike competition. "I'm really swing around with my guitar, I there is a chance that Herbert will excited about Rock-Alike and per­think I will be alright." meet his idol. forming and about the home crowd Herbert explained that he "That would commensurate life. I advantage." The event is being held became involved in the Rock-Alike could die a happy man," said Her­
Kevin Herbert, a mild-mannered ND freshman by day, "Boss" by night. at Notre Dame to reward the Uni-Contest after the Millions Against bert. "He's a demi-god." 
Juke box heroes aren't foreign to ACC crowd 

Tim Adams 
Concert review 


robed singers bouncing to the beat rocked the ACC last night with a and clapping hands, encouraging juke box full ofhits, playing before the audience to do the same, was a packed crowd. moving. 
As the lights were turned off, the Soon the entire crowd was on its audience roared with delight. The feet, swaying, clapping, and singing red tarpaulin covering most ofthe along, too. They received a tremen­
stage was lifted, revealing the four dous ovation, and I could tell the members of Foreigner, as well as audience was especially pleased, three keyboardists on elevated because the number oflighters platforms. being held up was incredible. 
Then the unmistakable chords to Coming close to this song, in 
"Feels Like the First Time" echoed terms ofexcitement generated, was ,out, accompanied by shrieks from the teen passion anthem, "Urgent." ,the crowd and the ever-present It, too, got a standing ovation, con­glow oflighters. Then the group cluding the first portion of the 1 
ripped into "Double Vision" and concert. After the group exited the "Cold as Ice," those old AOR stage, the crowd hungrily standbys. "Ice" was spiced up by a demanded an encore. The four guys saxophone solo played by one of came through, delivering bombas­
the three keyboardists. tic versions of"Dirty White Boys" 
Most groups, when playing a and "Hot Blooded," before they left concert, usually receives less and once again. less applause as the night wears on, But the crowd was not satiated, but last night's crowd maintained so Foreigner appeared one last time peak interest through almost every and led slowly into "Juke Box song, getting lazy only when Foreig­Hero." As the song cranked along, ner played an unfamiliar tune (and an inflatable juke box appeared on there weren't many). Ifthe group the right side ofthe stage; the failed to vary its approach in the crowd went nuts. Lead guitarist, concert much, they made up for it MickJones jammed furiously until by the songs' popularity. the song ended, and so did the juke 
Other songs getting a good box, in a flash ofsmoke. The 
response were "Head Games," audience'went home very pleased. "Waiting for a Girl like You," and the current single, "That was Yes­Opening the concert was Giuf­terday." fria, a hard rock quintet featuring 
The peak of the concert, without one ofthe members from Angel. a doubt, was the rendition of"I They are best known for theirJour­Want to Know What Love is." On ney clone hit, "Call to Your Heart." record, the song features a choir, They provided the evening's low and lo and behold, Foreigner point when the lead singer alluded brought one with them last night. to partying and snorting cocaine as 
The image of 25 swaying, white-a "cool" type ofrebellion. 
T
he popular group Foreigner 

~i~~~_()__i__ll__t_________________w_e_dn-es-day_,A_p_ril-24-,1-98-S~pa~ge-6 

Caricature of Germans also must be forgotten 
We have all, at one time or another, been Look at the facts. World War II ended 40 exposed to the stereotype of the "typical" years ago. Most people living today were born Jewish person. The nose protruding just so after that or were too young to really par­from the face and the hair lying in a just so ticipate in the war before it ended. The time manner have come to represent the face. Eyes has come to start forgiving the German people 
scanning for coins and employment as an in­for a crime which their fathers committed. vestment banker have come to represent the The time has come to remove the stigma lifestyle. Conversations concerning jews can which covers the eyes of our world's people. be carried on without reference to these taste­President Reagan's visit, should it be carried less caricatures. Yet, there is one topic which out, will be a major step in putting the past seemingly cannot be dismissed the aside. Holocaust. 'Ibis, of course, infuriates jews, who feel 
that the horrors ofthe Holocaust should never be forgotten. Granted, the murder of over six Dave Kroeger million people should remain with us, but why do we need to carry with that memory the hatred of the perpetrators? Is it notWednesday's child enough to channel energy toward the ending of human misery, or must we be sidetracked by a bunch of bones lying halfway around the 
The nation's capitol was the scene ofone of world? the year's biggest mini-dramas as the White I can understand the bitterness that Wiesel House announced that President Reagan must feel after enduring two concentration would visit a German cemetery later this year. camps, but the Jewish people have no The knowledge that S.S. graves were in the monopoly on suffering. We need only look at burial ground brought a screaming pro-jewish Cambodia to discover that holocausts are a force to its feet. The normally decisive ad­dime a dozen. I can understand pleas for sym­ministration found itself on the defensive as pathy, but I refuse to be manipulated into more and more people began to rail the White pseudo-worship ofthe formerly persecuted. It House for what the media considers to be a is this usc ofAmerica's guilt which has caused "boo-boo." our seemingly endless contributions to an Is­
raeli government which has rarely been 
Among the critics was Elie Wiesel, who anything other than a little child which says coincidentally happened to be in Washington "gimmc, gimme" when it wants and "anti­this week to receive an award from President Semitism, anti-Semitism" when it docs not Reagan. Wiesel made it clear that he was, in no receive. uncertain terms, opposed to the visit. He said that the perplexity of the Jewish people in If the administration has stepped on a few regard to the visit "knows no bounds." Well, toes in its announcements, then so be it. That that's really nice, Elie, but one would have to visit is much more important than the say that your egocentricity knows no bounds, whinings of people like Wiesel. It will signify either. that we are beginning to forgive the German 
The powerfulJewish lobby which emerged people for their past sins, in much the same after World War II has gone too far this time. way that America has begun to seek forgive­How dare the Jews claim that Reagan has no ness for Vietnam. The methodical murder of right to visit that cemetery. How insensitive to over six million Jews is indeed a tragedy. think that the lives of those German soldiers Those who killed them were undoubtedly of 
arc unworthy or tainted by some type of very warped reasoning. Is that not a tragedy, poison. They arc people, just like you and me, too? It seems that more than one caricature with the same problems and the same aspira­needs to end. tions. Their cause. in the frame of historical justification, was wrong, but that does not David Kroeger is a sophomore in the Col­make them any less deserving of respect than lege ofArts and Letters Honors Program and those who fought for the "right" side. is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Doonesbury 

Notre Dame has lost the activism of the past era 
An old friend, a Notre Dame alumnus, is was the dotty kind -the hallmark of the coming to town. We met in the late 60s in a genuine article. course on church history taught by Professor G was no accident. The chemistry was all William Storey. Twelve years have ·gone by set when his father, a German Lutheran, since we last met: I was out of the country married his Irish Catholic mother who con­when he returned to campus for his tenth year verted to the Lutheran Church. Uving with 
reunion. the menage was a maternal grandfather whose 
I will call my friend G, to protect his privacy daily ritual it was to take out his prayer-wheel and to save him any embarrassment should I to offer prayers for his apostate daughter's lapse into hagiolatry. During those first few return to the one true faith. The exercise was classes, I was struggling with shyness and a carried out with relish. deplorable case of intellectual intimidation. Mama seems to have had a touch ofMadame G, I primly decided, was an intellectual ex-Blavatsky about her. A psychic Celt, she ap­
parently had good-natured encounters with 
the spirit world. Then there were the batty

Ann Pettifer 
uncles, Checkers and Flip-Flop Maloney, who were usually in inaccessible exile somewhere in the Rockies. Their personae were unclear;
guest column 
they may or may not have been larcenists, 

grand or otherwise, and they may or may not hibitionist; definitely not to be trusted. This have done time. They could have been pure impression was soon to bite the dust. G, I dis­comic invention, useful names to invoke in covered, was a natural enthusiast and gifted the presence of anyone menacing the family. 
with ebullience. The stories of nuttiness were legion and 
G is a Lutheran pastor now; while he was an beguiling. undergraduate here, he was our token Protes­While he was at Notre Dame, my friend tant. He bore his tokenism gracefully al­developed a passion for the. writings ofSidney though, once in a while, he had a little sport at Smith, an early 19th century Anglican divine. Notre Dame's expense. Each year, on the an­This, I thought, revealed real class. Smith was niversary of the occasion when Martin Luther the best kind ofAnglican clergyman -a man of pinned his famous theses to the doors of Wit­robust faith, with a talent for the bon mot. It tenberg Cathedra, G, a great believer in was Smith who said: "I have never read a book wholesome traditions, would pad offwith Lut­before reviewing it, it prejudices a man so." her's thesis and post them on the doors of the And, "I have, alas, only one illusion left and Sacred Heart Church. that is the Archbishop of Canterbury." Before 
In the course of that semester with Dr. he left Notre Dame, G had his portrait painted Storey, G and I became friends and co­as Smith -a splendid parting jape -the Sun Belt conspirators; we shared a sense ofglee as we Lutheran at a Catholic university wearing the logged the sins of the wicked old medieval mask ofan Anglican wit. Church. At the same time, our twentieth cen­It will be good to see G again. Fr. Don 
tury complacency was nudged by books like McNeil's note toG's friends read, "G has been "Piers The Ploughman" and "The Imitation of involved in social justice work." I was not Christ." "Piers the Ploughman" should be re­surprised. His imminent arrival has evoked in quired reading at a Catholic university, for it me a nostalgia for those times in the late 60s 
encourages the Christian pilgrim to remain and early 70s. Oddballs and characters were stout ofheart through the bad times when the given room to thrive and the political atmo­Church becomes bloated and idle or, more sphere on campus was far from alarming, when it switches to repressive ac­monochromatic. Reactionaries were more tivity. It has been said of history that it is the likely to be found under stones -their natural story ofone damn thing after another: ditto for habitat -and ROTC was in retreat. 
the Church. These days I worry a lot abot pre-profession As our friendship grew, G recounted stories earnestness and military recidivism. I have in of his family. Most of them were surely true, mind a book which I would love to make re­
but I suspected the odd apocryphal adden­quired reading for all those uniforms strutting dum. Anyway, they were an impressively ec­around: Virginia Woolfs "Three Guineas." She centric tribe. This was unusual because has pinpointed, better than anyone, what uni­Americans are not, on the whole, good at ec­forms, braiding and medals signify, and it is centricity; WASPS manage it now and again, not very nice. While the campus seems to me but they nearly always plump for the cur­a bland place nowadays, I hope there is still mudgeonly species which does not inspire enough good humus around to nourish 
mirth. We Catholics, for the most part, do not original individuals like G. stand a chance; conformity comes with our catechetical primers. G's family's eccentricity Ann Pettifer is an alumna ofNotre Dame. 
Do you have an opinion? 
Viewpoint would like to bear from you. But letters are not the only way to voice Ifyou would like to respond to something your opinion in The Observer, Viewpoint you've read in The Observer, why not also accepts guest columns. Guest write a letter to the editor. Letters should columns should be well-written, typed, be well-written, typed, no more than 250 no more than 500 words in length and words in length and must bear the must bear the signature of the author. A signature ofthe author. Letters which are guest column, unlike letter to the editor, not signed by the author will not be should not bea direct response to another published. editorial. 
Garry Trudeau 


Quote of the day 
"The most beautiful thing we can experi­ence is the mystery." 
-AlbertEinstein 

-~-~ -~---~ 
"ieVVP.~O~i~n~t~------------------------------------------W--ed_n_e_sd_a_y_,A_p_r_n_z_4_,1_9_s_s___P_ag~e--7 
Conservatives should be happy with today's press 
There are many assumptions which are tossed around like facts. One such assumption is that there is a liberal bias in the press. 
Conservatives love to complain about Dan Rather's supposed harrassment of President 
Mark Boennighausen 
gravity is a myth 

Reagan. jesse Helms is so convinced that CBS is biased he wants a coalition ofconservatives to buy CBS's stock and thus become "Dan Rat­her's boss." Adding to the problem is the fact that even intelligent conservatives buy into this assumption. 
Last week at his lecture, I asked con­servative columnist James Kilpatrick about liberal bias in the press and he said that he thought there was such a slant. He did qualify his answer by only attaching the label to the "prestige press." Specifically, he mentioned CBS, The New York Times, and The Was­hington Post. He did not, however, offer any empirical evidence. 
For most conservatives there is no need for any evidence; they simplyknow that they are right. In two thoughtful essays in the latest issue of The New Republic, Fred Barnes and Michael Massing present evidence to refute this long held belief. The essays point out that there has been tremendous growth in what can be called the conservative press. 
Examples given include the births ofthe na­tional newspaper USA Today and the twenty­four hour cable news network CNN. Both of these relatively new news organizations are commonly viewed as more conservative than their older counterparts. The essays further point out that conservative are represented in what critics call the liberal press. For instance, conservative columnist George Will regularly appears in both Newsweek «nd The Was­hington Post. 
What is apparent from both esaays is the idea that the press will usually reflect the cur­rent politcal climate. And as any good liberal knows the times are definitely conservative now. The conservatives, however, are mired in the past and thus cannot forget the liberal press activism ofthe 1960s and early 1970s. If press critics would only look at what appears in print and on the televison screen they might not be so upset. Personally, I am sick of seeing Ronald Reagan at his ranch, trying to look like a macho cowboy, on the evening news every three weeks or so. The fact that he always says everything is going great adds to my disillusionment. I think the conservative point ofview gets plenty ofcoverage. 
Even college newspapers, once great bas­tions of liberalism and in some cases even 
P.O.BoxQ 
Maintenance and food departments praised 
DearEditor: 
I would just like to take this opportunity to publicly thank The University Food Services and University Maintenance Department, in particular Bill Hickey and John Manhaut, for their efforts during this years Collegiate jazz Festival. I found these two men extremely dedicated to serving students to the utmost of their abilities. In my dealings with them the past two years, it is clearly evident that the student events and needs rank at the top of their priority lists. I do not only appreciate their efforts as a way to make my job easier, but also appreciate them because they do so much to enhance the environment here at Notre Dame. 
' 

Hickey and Manhaut, and the departments they represent, are prime examples of this University's finest employees. 
I not only thank them but their staffs and workers who are just as helpful and pleasant. We are fortunate to benefit from their service. Thank you. 
john]. Cerabino Chairman CollegiatejazzFestival 

Students should respect the effort of Gideons 
DearEditor: 
I would like to take this opportunity to commend the Gideons. They put a great deal of effort into doing what they believe is right. For this reason they deserve commendation. 
However, this highlights a problem. Alot of things have been said about Notre Dame stu­dents, but now the addition of"wimps" to the list seems justified. The day the Bibles were distributed at the dining halls quite a few later ended up sitting on the tables or moving down the conveyor belt. Days later I was still seeing Bibles perched at convenient ledges around campus and in garbage cans. Why was this? Had people read it and then decided they did not want it? Not likely, considering almost everyone here has probably seen a Bible before. So then why were the Bibles all over campus? Because some students are wimps. When approached at the dining hall they were afraid of possibly hurting someone's feelings, or they just could not refuse a bargain or did not want to appear unholy by refusing a Bible. (It is like telling God to get lost, right?) So in­stead of having the guts to say the incredibly difficult phrase "no thank you," they accepted the gift, and with it the hard work and dedica­tion ofthe.Gideons. They managed to take the good achieved by others' hard work and turn it to waste; now there is a fine afternoon's 
work to be proud of. 
Maybe if guests on our campus are treated with a little more respect in the future, fewer 
negative things  will  be said  about  Notre  
Dame.  
Chuck Schrock  
Keenan Hall'.  

Stealing license plate does not make you cool 
DearEditor: 
To the person who stole the license plate "DOMER" off my car outside the University Club on Saturday afternoon, please think about the following. I obtained the plate in the first place to display my pride in the Univer­sity and the type of student here. I find it ironic that a student at the same institution tries to display his pride by stealing my plates. One motive behind this act of thievery probably was to be cool. Do you think it is cool to know that I have to go out and replace the personalized plate at a cost of $60, plus go through the hassle of obtaining it? Your only use for the plate now is selfish gratification for display in a room. Are you proud of the fact that you are a thief and the plate is now on your wall? Are you now cool? 
As a graduating senior I would like the plate returned. Think about it! 
Frank Schlueter St. Edward'sHall 
Senior lists reasons for awaiting graduation 
DearEditor: 
As a senior, I look forward to graduating next month for many reasons, both positive and negative. Hard work finally pays off; anot­her summer of fun and sun awaits me; and there is a new step in my life on the horizon: law school. Yet life is not heaven on earth, and neither is Notre Dame. No one, nor any in­stitution, is perfect. There are, as a result, many things I will not miss when I leave Notre Dame. 
•The 
dining halls' "insult a nationality" evenings when dinners are devoted to themes denigrating certain ethnic groups by serving food which the groups would be embarrassed to call their own. 

•The 
ground crew's destruction of the quads by cutting lawns that have just been rained upon for hours. 

•U-93's 
"Street Talk" interviews at University Park Mall, when locals with small-sized brains attempt to discuss such topics as nuclear weapons and Gerry Faust (a perfect couple, don't you think, since they both signify devastation -whether its object is the world or a proud tradition). 

•
Ruthless and dumb administrative athletic decisions made by Father Joyce under the guise ofsome farce ofa committee. 

•Mushrooms, 
particularly those served by the dining halls in every dish that could con­ceivably have a vegetable in it. 

•The 
weather in northern Indiana (need I say more?). 

•
A student government torn by conflicts of self-interest and pride. 

•The 
24 hour-a-day freak show in the LaFortune lobby. 

•
Rules in increasing numbers which tighten the stranglehold around student necks, but enforced ostensibly for our own well-being. 

•The 
on-going, slow, jockeying for position 


radicalism, have become conservative. A per­fect example is The Observer. There are now daily quotes, usually endorsing conservative views, on its editorial page. Furthermore, there was The Observer's endorsement for the re-election of a conservative president who eliminated college students' social security benefits in his first term and is now threatening to drastically curtail the Govern­ment Student Loan program in his second term. 
It seems that Helms and his friends should 
be more than satisfied with the current state 
of affairs. Maybe it is now time for liberals to 
yell and scream about a conservative bias in 
the press. 
Aaarrrrggghhhh .... 
Mark Boennighausen is a senior govern­ment major anda regular contributor to the Viewpointpage. 
among upper-level CSC priestsfor Father Res­burgh's job. 
•Having 
to worry about the daily progress of the Mishawaka Cavemen basketball team. 

•The 
Credit Union, without question the banking institution of this country which most serves itselfwhile least serving its mem­bers, and 

•Father 
Hesburgh's lectures on the nuclear arms race, something he surely must do in his sleep. 


What I will miss, however, is complaining about all ofthese things. 
Michael]. Beaudine AlumniHal/ 
Pettifer's identity seems to be a mystery 
DearEditor: 
Who is Ann Pettifer, and when did she graduate from Notre Dame? She is not listed on any Alumni Office records as having ever attended the University. Is Pettifer a married name? A pseudonym? Is she a faculty member? Why do we hear from her so often? 



Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5J,.03 
Edttor·ln~Chtef ~ Sarah E~ Ham1lton Business Manager. Davtd Stephenttct"· Managmg Editor . Amy Stephan Adverttsmg Manager Anne Cull1gan 
The Observer 1s the independent newpaper published by the students of the 
News Edt tor. Keith Harrison Jr. Controller. B1ll Hlghducheck
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Samt Mary·s College. It does not necessarily 
News Editor~ Dan McCullough Systems Manager. Mark B Johnson
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as 
Samt Mary·s Executtve Edt tor . Theresa Guarino ProductiOn Manager . John A. Men nell 
accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
Sports Editor . Jeff Blumb 
of a maJOrity of the Ed1tonal Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column 
Accent Edttor . ~ . .. Mary Healy present the v1ews of their authors. Column space is available to all members of tile Viewpoint Editor ~ . Joe Murphy 
community. and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters, Photography Edt tor . . Peter C~ Laches 
•S encouraged Copy Chief~ Frank L1po Founded November 3, 1966 
-~-----------------------~--------------­
Sports Briefs 
The AnTostal slam dunk contest will be 
held today at 2 p.m. on the Hammes Hardtop behind the bookstore. Celebrity judges include Casey Newell, Dan Duff, Gerry Faust, Mary DiStanislao, Rob Bertino and Jeff "Wipeout" Anhut. Dave McGulfy will be the public address anouncer for the spectacle. -TheObserver 
The ND/SMC Sailing Club will be meeting 
tonight at 6:30p.m. at the boathouse. -The Observer 
.. 

AnTostal mud volleyball schedules are posted for the games to be played today. Players are reminded to advance their team's name when they win. For more information, call Janet at 277-3967 or Matt at 283-2465.-The Observer 
The Irish Guard will hold an organizational meeting tomorrow at 4 p.m. on Green Field. Anyone who is interested in trying out should attend. For more information, call Chris at 283­
1783. -The Observer 

The ND/SMC Gymnastics Club banquet has been rescheduled for Friday at 6 p.m. All past and current members are Invited. For location, call Tim Sennet at 283-3308.-The Observer 
Wednesday, Apri124, 1985-page 8 

Honors Program racquetball tournament 
participants must report results ofall first-and second-round singles and doubles games to Jim Hogan by tomorrow. Sophomores in Friday's finals may pick up schedules tomorrow in the Honors Program office on the third floor of O'Shaughnessy. Freshmen will receive schedules tomorrow in history class. -The Observer 
The Blue-Gold Football Game, Notre 
Dame's annual intrasquad scrimmage, will be played Saturday at I 
p.m. in the stadium. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will be admitted free by showing ID at gate I 5. General admission tickets may be purchased in advance at the ticket office at gate I 0 of the ACC or at the stadium on Saturday. -The Observer 
A scramble golftournamentwill be hosted by 
NVA on Saturday, May 4. Students, faculty and staff may register by paying a S3 greens fee at the NVA office by Tuesday. Prizes will be awarded. For more information, call NVA at 239-6IOO.-The Obser­ver 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Thursday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor ofLaFortune. Briefs should be written on the forms provided at the office, and the name and phone number ofthe person submitting them must be included. -The Observer 
Kosar will get to choose 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Bernie Kosar was given the chance yesterday to play for the team of his choice, the Cleveland Browns, when National Football League Commissioner Pete Rozelle upheld two trades for the University of Miami quarterback. 
Rozelle's I !-page decision was an affirmation of the status quo that gives Kosar the right to decide whet­her he wants to play for the Browns or the Minnesota Vikings. 
He upheld both the trade bet­ween Minnesota and Houston that gave the Vikings the first crack at Kosar in next Tuesday's regular col­lege draft, and the deal between the Browns and the Buffalo Bills that gave Cleveland Kosar's rights in a supplemental draft. 
That left the decision squarely in the hands of Kosar, who has two yeacs ofcollege eligibllty left but has said he intends to complete his studies this summer. 
Th<' Obs<'M'<'r Notre Dam.-otfkc. locatnl on tht· third floor of lah>rtune Student Center. accepts classified adn·rtising from l) a.m. until 4 p.m.. Monday through Friday. Th<' Obsf!rl•<'r Saint Man·"s offkt·. lot·atcd on the third floor of Haggar College Center. an·epts dassifit·ds from 12:.'\0 p.m. until -'p.m.. Mon· day though Friday. Deadline li>r nt"xt-day das,ifieds i' .i p.m. All das,ified' must bt" prepaid. t"ithn in pason or hy mail. Chargt· is I 0 cent' per five chara<:· 

Classifieds 
tcrs r da 
NOTICES 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-811117 
WORDPROCESSING • 277-t045. 
GOVERNMENT HOMES lrom $1 (U repair). Also delinquent tax property. Call 805-687-6000 Ext. GH-9634 lor Informa­tion. 
TYPING 2n-8534 after 5:30 
WordprOCMBlng and Typing 272-8827 
Word Proc8SSJng and Typrng Resumes, Leners, Papers, Documents Call 234­2380 
PRO-TYPE Over 14 yrs. experience typ1ng student papers, resumes, and dls­sertatrons 2n·5833. 
TYPING· CALL ANDREA· 2~3880 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-70011. 
Be Smart II Sell your texts and paperbacks for$$ before the ruah'! M-F.B/T 12-4 pm. We also carry s wrde assortment of Cliff and Monarch Notes Pandoras Books,937 So. Bend Ave., I block from Corby's. 
FRESHMAN ORIENTATION 1985 MAN­DATORY MEETING FOR ALL THOSE STILL INTERESTED IN BEING ON THE COMMITIEE TONIGHT J7:00 NEW OR· LEANS ROOM. LA FORTUNE. PRESENT COMMITIEE MEMBERS MUSTATIEND. 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST. General Bro le>t was removed from the far nghl srde of marn carrels on the I Olh floor of the library Wed. evemng. The return of lhrs book'" extremely rmpor­tanlas I have a test next week' Call3615 ASAP 11 found! 
Loot navy blue pull-over wmdbreaker made by Jos.Bank Lost on Saturday at the tenniS courts.lf found please call Joe at3498. 
Lost: Blue jean jacket at a off-campus party on 3/29. Pleue call Jean at 284­
5024 
LOST: . about 4 months ago. 1 parr of glasses wrth brown nm rn a gray case. II found please call 2700. 
FGUND: One women·a hrgh school class ring with 1n11iala MCH 1nside. Found in McCandlesa Hall SMC. Call Julie 284­5458. 
LOST:BLUE NIKE NYLON RUNNING PANTS A TlYONS B-BALL COURTS ON SUN. APRIL 14.1985. CALL JOHN 1134. 
LOST ONE NO DEEP BLUE JACKET IN NORTH DINING HALL. PLEASE RETURN TO 715 Fl.ANNER. NO ?"S ASKED 
Found: Apnl 5. calico female cat at SMC. Cal12n-2367to claim. 

SKI GlASSES LOST....in lawn area bel· 
ween LEMANS HALL and SMC 
PARKING LOT. Please return 'cause 
theae gtasaes were not my properly !Ill 
Tlle MIRRORED SKI GlASSES brand 
name resembles CElAIS -but I'm not 
poeitive .... These SKI GlASSES can be 
easily identified as BLUE with a little RED 
and WHITE trim. and twilled wire replac­
rng the small screws next to each eye Ill 
PLEASE CALL 283-3437 or RETURN 
THE GlASSES to the LEMANS HALL 
DESK (or) Notre Dame LOST and 
FOUND in the Administration Building. 
Please respond before this weekend '''' Thank you. 
LOST. NAVY BLUE MEN'S SWIMMING WINDBREAKER. LEFT ON COAT RACK IN SOUTH DINING HALL ON 4/18. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL ROLAND AT 2165. 
To the three g1rla who gave me a ride home on Friday mght(l was walking on Juniper). Thanks alot!l But, I mrghl need your help agarn!! Could you please checl< your car and see if I left my green 1.0. holder rn it? It has my I.D.. credit card. and some other important stuff. Thanks again. My number is 3486. 
$10 if you lind my brown pres glasses. lost Th4-18 at stad. auction. In soft b81ge case. HELP! Mo-4515. 
LOST: If you mrstakenly (or intentionally) picked up my Managenal Accounting book from South at Tuesday lunch, PLEASE RETURN. before my brg brot­her Bubba comes to call on you. Thanks! Susan x4286 
LOST;GOLD BRACELET WITH GOLD TEDDY BEAR CHARM.SENTIMENTAL VALUE. PLEASE CALL 232-4552 OR 277-67421F FOUND. 
LOST GOLD CHAIN,CRUCIFIXAND CIRCULAR JESUS MEDAL INSCRIBED. CALL277-6742 OR 232·45521F FOUND. 
FOR RENT 

Straight male needed for resort apartment near NOTRE DAME. Close to everything. OPemng May tst or thereabouts for sum­mer or longer Prefer professional . grad student , or medical type Priced out of this world . Call 233-5853 & ask for TIM. 
ROOM MATE WANTED to share NO apt lor 85-86. Call Tim,2546. 
AD NEED A CHEAP PLACE TO LIVE THIS SUMMER? WE'RE LOOKING FOR TWO ROOMMATES TO SHARE EX­PENSES AT N.D. APTS. CALL SMC 43090R 5496 
WANTED 
I NEED GRAD. TIXI Please call lisa at3544. 

HELP!! NEED 1 OR 2 GRAD TIX. TOGETHER OR SEPARATE. PLEASE CALL MARYA AT 1276 OR 1296; KEEP TRYING!! 
Rrde or Riders Needed to Indianapolis 4/26Call3880 
Part time job! Need help laying sod. $4.00/h calt2n-7660 
RIDE NEEDED TO PURDUE UNIVER­SITY leave Friday afternoon call Tom 
1<3082 

HELP! I NEED GRAD TIXI CALL PETE 1856 
HOUSESITIING WANTED BY 27 Y.O. GRAD STUDENT FOR THE SUMMER. WILL DO YARD WORK. CALL 2n-8549 
Need studious. male roommate lor neX1 year at Hict<ory Village Apia. Call Mark at 272-6298 
NEED RIDE TO P.U. THIS WEEK END. NANCY 284-4329 
FOR SALE 
Be smart' Sell your class books bel ore the rush. Mon.-Fri between 12 and 4. Save$ on paperbacks. Fri: 3-6: 50/ off used: 20/ off new. PANDORA'S BOOKS. 937 So Bend Ave. 233-2342 
6-UNIT APARTMENT FOR SALE, NO­MEMORIAL AREA. EXCELLENT CON­DITION 233-9728 232-4528 
82 Honda Civic. Air. Cass Stereo. Great MPG. 277-5725 
FOR SALE: couch and rug, a decorators delight! Must see to appreciate , call Tom or Mike at1 000. 
MOVING SALE D..k & Chair, Gold Car· pet Remnant, Large TV Stend, 011 Palntlnga w/Fram.., Dlah... Call 239­5476 Daya, 234-5624 Evenlnga 6-10 
For Sale: 1973 Ford pick-up. N.R. 6­cylinder Call284-4221 
FOR SALE: I 0-Speed bicycle, Schwinn VarSity. Call Steve 3830. 
FOR SALE: NYLON JOGGING SWEAT· PANTS AND TOPS. IN BLUE AND RED. CALL MIKE )232-0904 AFTER 6:00PM. $20 EA. OR $35 SET. 
TICKETS 
HEY SENIORS' NEED GRADUATION DESPARATELY!!III WILL PAY HUGE BUCKS!! PLEASE CALL MARIA ISERN­4304. 
HELP!! NEED 1 OR 2 GRAD TIX. TOGETHER OR SEPARATE. PLEASE CALL MARYA AT 1276 OR 1296; KEEP TRYING!! 
GRADUATION TICKETS NEEDED! Five of them. For real money. Call 288· 0330. Please. 
HELP!! I NEED 1 GRAD TICKET--WILL PAY $$$1! CALL SUE 3843 PLEASE!! 
DESPERATELY NEED GRAD TICKETS PLEASE CALL JJ 1703 
HELP! NEED 2 GRAD TIX!$ Call Nancy 81234-7319 
BIG BUCKS FOR GRADUATION TICK­ETS !! CALL MARK AT 232-5645 
Need 3 Grad tix Will pay$ 1346 HELP! DESPERATELY NEED GRAD TICKETSIII CALL MATI 3024 OR JAMINA 683-7334 CALL CALL CALL 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER l UQUOR, CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN. 
YOU MAY NOT FEEL LIKE DOING IT. BUT YOU"LL BE GlAD YOU DID!! AN TOSTAL'S HANGOVER 5K SATURDAY, APRIL 27 STARTS AT 9;30 SHOW UP TO REGISTER $1 OUTSIDE STEPAN CENTER 
YOCIUS is Atrocious. 
HELP If NEED 1 OR 2 TIX, TOGETHER OR SEPARATE. PLEASE CALL MARYA AT 1276 OR 1296; KEEP TRYING If 
HELP!! I AM IN DIRE NEED OF ONE MORE GRADUATION TICKET!!! PARENTS WILL KILL ME IF I DONT COME THROUGH WITH THIS DEAL!! PLEASE HELP OUT A POOR FELLOW SENIOR, AND CALL JEFF AT 3859. 
ATIENTION SENIORS ONLY 
PRE-ANTOSTAL BASH WEDNESDAY. APRIL 24 9-1. SMC CLUBHOUSE $3 ALL YOU CAN DRINK, 21 10 RE­QUIRED 
SMc-ND SUMMER PROGRAMS· IRELAND, LONDON, PARIS, ROME LIMITED NUMBERS OF OPENINGS AVAILABLE UNTIL MAY 15. FOR INFO CALL PROF. A.R. BLACK • 284-4460 OR 272-3726. 
SUMMER HOUSING NEEDED Two guys who like South Bend so much that they've decided they"re staying are looking for an inexpensive house or spartmentlor this summer. If you have one orif you've even heard of such an animal, please calf Dan 811625. 
JEFF HERMAN-YOUR TAN"S LOOKING PRETTY GOOD!! HAVE A NICE TIME AT THE PICNIC? Love. Your Secret Admirer 
Chopper:Nice nose,butlel go of my reins' From the Buckaroos-Happy Trails 
··"i'i:il<'sAiiil's ··· 
Only 51or $10 
ALL THIS WEEK ONLY AT ROCK DULAC. FIRST FLOOR LA FORTUNE LIMIT10 
Theo MI!Jor• and other• lnter..ted are Invited to An lnlormal Dlac:uaalon with Prof-WIHiam Storay Tonlght, April 24 at 10 pm 341 O'Shag 
FOREIGNER FANS BRING IN YOUR CONCERT TICKET STUB FOR A DISCOUNT ON 
Agent Provocateur 
ROCK DUlAC 
Yo South Quad We chaNenge you to be on the fieldhou118 mall at3:00 pm on Wed­nesday the 23rd. Prove that you deserve to be called Domers! The Zoo 
HELP!! To the three girls who gave me a ride home on Friday night (I was walking on Juniper around 3:30) I lost my green 1 
1.0. holder' Could you please check your car and see il irs there? Thanks please check your car and see if it"s there? Thanks! 3486. 
Dave Robbins Mangod Junior MADDOG MADDOG MADDOG MADDOG The Hideous Saga Goes On 
OFF CAMPUS STUDENTS can pick up An Tostal Booklets all this week between 3 and 5 p.m. In the An Tostal Office. located within the student offices on the second floor of LaFortune. 
SLAM DUNK CONTEST 
SLAM DUNK CONTEST 
Come watch Notre Dame students imper­sonate their favorite basketball stars. Wednesday April 24 behrnd the Bookstore at 2 p.m. 
Don't miss the ac#on 
HUNGRY? FREE DELIVERY CALL THE YELLOW SUB 272-4453 MO-TH 8·11 pm FA-SA 8pm-1 am 
ARTISTS 
PAYING JOB! 
.1 Farley Hall desires pen and ink. Call 
Amy 4068 for detarls. 
METAL MEN UNITE! '"WICKED SH-r at the Nazz,Fri.4/26.10:30PM Playing your HEAVY METAL favorites. ROCK ON! 
TAMIAMNWGIVING 
xxxxxoxxxx 
YOU A G I F T TO MA 
XXXXXXXXK 
U GET BE TT ER1X E 
SENIOR8-SENIOR8-SENIORS Pick up Senior Formal pOHd & candid pletur.. on WEDNESDAY, APRIL24 et LaFortumne & H.oagar. 1lAM to 4PM ONLY. REORDERS taken at thla time! 
FINANCE CLUB MEETING Wednesday. April24 7:30pm Room 122 Hayes-Healy BE THERE!! 
RETAIL FURNITURE SALES Part lime. flexible hours. lmmed. openings. call Chris Pedevilla 259·0007 I 0-8PM The Furniture Gallery. Misha. 
PIDSAYS... NADA 
To the ROTC elf in PE: Way to go! Luv, Mom in 740. 
DO YA'LL WANNA LEARN A NEW DANCE?! ARE YOU QUALIFIED TO LEARN ONE?! IF YOU THINK YOU ARE, AND YOU WANT TO SEE '"THE TIME' PERFORM ONCE AGAIN (OR FOR THE FIRST TIME IF YOU MISSED ROCK· ALIKE). COME TO THE AN TOSTAL AIR BAND CONTEST WED. NIGHT.•.WAAAAK1 
P.S. Thanks lor making me so happy!!' 
Purz Brofhers:Vic caHed-double your life insurance 
HEY, MUSIC LOVERS! . I've gof sort of a problem here. The 
Minutemen are coming to Chicago on 
May 3. and I already have tlx. Problem is.l 
need a ride. Can you help? Grandma says 
there's help for people like me. so call Reg 
at 265t If you think she"s right. 
Thank you St. Jude, lorty times over, Dena made It, we survived. and your reputation as a miracle worker is secure by me. 
HARTZELL THE HORRIBLE !! Y<»gee­el-wye He ain't got no alibi He's UGLY' TOM HARTZELL FOR UMOC1 
Votes for u:M.o.c. are being collected in tne dining halls dunng dinner through Sat. The Ugliest Man On Campus will be revealed on Saturday at 12:00 pm at the Irish Wake! 
If you're bad .. We're going to aend you to the eehool foraerogl 
Staying in the Bend for the summer: need small place for the summer. Call Tom x1479. 
G01ng to Europe or New Zealand this summer and not taking your car? I need to have wheels lor my job this summer. so I'm WJtling to rent yours and take care of 1t until August. Call Tom x1479. 
IRISH GARDENS GET YOUR FLOWERS EARLY' WE ARE CLOSING EARLY ON ANTOS­TAL FRIDAY. APRIL 26 WE WILL BE OPEN FROM 12:30-3:00 REOPENING MONDAY. APRIL 29, 12:30-5:30 IRISH GARDENS IRISH GARDENS 
................... 
WANT A JOB AT IRISH GARDENS? IF 
YOU ARE ELIGIBLE FOR 
FINANCIAL AID AND ALWAYS READY 
FOR A GOOD TIME. THEN STOP AT 
IRISH 
GARDENS IN THE BASEMENT OF 
LAFORTUNE 
AND PICK UP AN APPLICATION TO 
WORK NEXT YEAR 
IRISH GARDENS IRISH GARDENS 
Howard Hall presents 
The Annual 
Shorta and Shade• Party American Legron Post303 2410 Mishawaka Avenue Saturday, Bpm Bus service from main c1rcle 
An Tostal We Can Make You Laugh 
Comedy Show IMPORTANT TIME AND 
PLACE CHANGE!! Saturday. Apnl 27 
time:6:00p.m. Washington Hall $2.00 per 
ticket 
We Can Make You Laugh Show 
HEY MAX YOU-GOT-IT: HAPPY BIRTHDAY!! Aa a birthday pr-nt I hMr that all the TAMPA ATIRAc­TIONS promlaa to make thla a vary apec:lal day. You lucky dog! 
TO MY '"PRINCE FRIEND"' I DON'T THROW YOUR CARDS AWAY, I MERELY BURN THEM. 

The Observer Wednesday, Apri124, 1985-page 9 
Narrowing down to the Elite Eight ... 
Bookatore Tour111unent 
Todlly'a Gemea Sixth Round 

Bookatore9 5:00-4 Dinglebernes & a Kresgie v. Rousseau's Noble Savages 6:15-Revenge oftheFunBunch v. Rhythm Met­hod 
Bookatore 10 

5:00-4 Fags & a Zahmbte v. Red Barons 
6:15-Tequila White Lightning v. Jimmy G. & the Spots 
Lyona11 5:00-Tofu Vegetables Iv. Ed Smierciak & 4 Ot­her Guys Batter Than .. 6:15-WBBS Goes Off the Airv. Showtime Lyona 12 
5:00 -Weethy's Warriors v. First Source Bank 
Travelling All Stars .. 6:15-Dangling Manhood v. Let's Go Crazy 
Women'a Bookalore Bookatore8 4:00-Going All the Way v. Negligence Bookatore 10 4:00-5 Women Who Want to Go All the Way v. Does II On Their Own Lyona11 4:00-Pneumothorax Ill v, So You Think That We Can Play B-ball? Lyona12 
4:00 -Nudeus Breakes v. Nolo Contendre 
Yeaterdlly'a Reaulta Filth Round 
Stepen 1 

Tofu Vegetables I over Phi Runna Gunna by 9 
Showtime over Byrne's By-Products by 5 
Stepen2 

Weethy's Warriors over Uncoachables by 6 
First Source Bank Travelling... over Josephus & the Ethiopian ... by 4 Stepan3 Rousseau's Noble Savages over 4 Gringos & a Stump by 13 WBBS Goes Off the Air over Armed & Dan­gerous Ill by 8 Stepen4 4 Fags & a Zahmbie over The Chairmen of the Boards, 22-20 Revenge of the Fun Bunch over Mr. Coffey & the Non Dairy Creamers by 3 
Bookatore8 

Red Barons over Pee Wee & the Wee Bees by 16 
Let's Go Crazy over Revenge Factor by 7 
Boobtore 10 

Ed Smierciak & 4 Other Guys Better... over 
Keenan Inmates by 8 
Rhythm Method over Rhythm Method II by 4 
Lyona11 

Tequila White Lightning over 2 Dillon Sweet­
water Dudes . . by 13 
4 Dingleberries & A Kresgie over Hawaii Five-0 
by14 

Lyona12 Dangling Manhood over 5 Ethiopians Hungry To Winby9 Jimmy G. & the Spots over Nutmeggers by 5 
If you have a 

' 
but are low on$$ 
We may have a job for you. 
The 0"""""",.looking for a dependable, trustworthy pen10n (with a car) to pick up photOIJ from the South Bend Tribune and deliver them to our olflce every after­
noon. Ifyou're looking for a steady source of Income next fall -without a huge time commitment -th,. could be the job for you. 
lntenoted? Contact Amy at I~ Observer olflce lor more Information. 

ATIENTION: 
all marketing-type people ... 
apply nowfor the position of 
Marketing Manager for SAB Businesses 
Applications available in the SAB office, 2nd floor LaFortune. Deadline is 1:00 p.m., Mon. Apri129. Interviews begin Apr. 29 at 2 p.m. 
WANTED! 
Any person with no sense of humor 
WE CAN MAKE YOU LAUGH! 
Apri/27 at 6:00pm Engineering Auditorium 
$25 reward to anyone who doesn't laugh 
•sign ups at Rock du Lac for those who wish to participate in the show 
S2.00 per ticket Tickets at Rock du Lac 
lnterhall season nears its end with many teaiDs fighting for victory 
By FRANK HUEMMER 
Sports Writer 

With final exams fast approaching, interhall actvities are in full swing. Teams are giving it one last shot to go all the way and win the various tournaments and divisions. 
Only four teams remain in the 22­team open soccer round-robin tournament. In the Backs Division, Holy Cross dribbled around l.S.O. for a 2-0 victory and the division crown. Meanwhile, Zahm was able to streak by Dick Addis by a 1-0 score to win the Strikers Division. These two teams will play Monday at 7 p.m. on Cartier Field to earn the right to play the winner ofthe Wings Division. Awful Lawful and Missing Faculties will tangle for the Wings' title at 7 p.m. Thursday on Cartier. 
In fast-paced indoor soccer ac­tion, two off-campus teams battled it out for the championship. In the end, it was Zuber's Entourage out­lasting the Pumas to claim the title. 
In women's soccer, Lewis ( 4-0) is leading the league, but Pasquerilla West remains close behind at 3-1. Breen-Phillips and Badin both have a legitimate shot to catch these two teams, as they sport 2-1 records. Lyons ( 1-2), Walsh ( 1-3 ), Farley ( 1­3) and Pasquerilla East ( 0-4) round out the eight teams in the tourna­ment. 
One sport that is growing quickly in popularity is lacrosse. Everyday one can go outside, enjoy the sun­shine and see lacrosse sticks twirling in the air. Interhalllacrosse competi­tion is fierce, however. Holy Cross has been tearing up the Blue Jay Division as it has defeated all three of its opponents. Following close be­hind are Howard and Morrissey, both at 2-1. Carroll ( 1-1 ), Dillon ( 0­
2) and St. Ed's (0-3) complete the Blue Jay Division. "The playoff competition will be very tough," Greg Abbott, Holy . Cross captain, said, "because of the balance ofthe other division." 
The Terrapin Division shows four 
teams with excellent opportunities 
to capture the top spot. Keenan, Off­
Campus, Cavanaugh and Flanner all 
are 2-1, while Grace ( 1-2) and Zahm 
(0-3) fill out the rest of the division. 
The upcoming games will play a sig­
nificant role in determining who 
will capture the lacrosse title. 
Beside the heated contact of 
Lacrosse, the summer sounds of 
baseball can be heard in the air all 
around the Notre Dame campus. Six 
teams still are competing in the round-robin tournament. This week's action features a showdown between Holy Cross and Stanford A­I in the Kaline Division finals at 4:30 today. ' 
"They (Holy Cross) present a problem because they can score a bunch of runs," Stanford captain Tony Dawson said. "The first five batters can all put the ball out ofthe park. 
Holy Cross's captain Greg Abbott agreed that the Stanford-Holy Cross matchup will be a good one. 
"It will be a tough game," Abbott said, "but we have played tough defensively, have shown solid hit­ting and, so far, phenomenal pitch­ing." 
In the Mantle Division, teams from Morrissey and Flanner battled it out yesterday. 
Finally, in the Ruth Division, Keenan lll and Grace I will be playing for the division champion­ship at 4:30p.m. tomorrow. 
"All the remaining teams are quite competitive and have the capabilities to win the tournament," Keenan coach Jay Palma said. 
Whatever your sport is, you are sure to find plenty of action as the interhall competition really begins to heat up. 

Yung works for Belle tennis team 
By CHRISTINE FORTIN 
Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's tennis team will host Notre Dame for a challenging match this afternoon, and will depend greatly on the talents of senior Renee Yung, who has con­tributed much to the team over the year so far. 
Yung, a native ofGenoa City, Wis­consin, has been playing tennis since seventh grade and has been teaching tennis for five years. In high school, Yung played varsity tennis all four years. She was named an all­American player for two of those years, and became team captain her senior year. 
Her decision to attend Saint Mary's was based on two major fac­tors. She wanted to attend a school with high academic standards that also offered a fine tennis program. Yung turned down a tennis scholar­ship offer from Flagstaff University in Arizona to attend Saint Mary's and says she has absolutely no regrets. 
She currently holds the No. 5 
Balancing the responsibilities of being a varsity team member, an R.A. and a student can make for a rather hectic schedule, but Yung does not find it burdensome. 
"It gets difficult at times," she ex­plained, "but everything I'm doing I enjoy. And I've learned to schedule my time well." 
She was named most improved player for the Belles her freshman year. Although a senior, this is only to play tennis so she could devote her time to her studies. She has anot­her semester yet to go atSaint Mary's and intends to play with the Belles during the upcoming fall season. 
She feels her role on the team is no different from anyone else's, which is to play as well as possible for the team. Sophomore Caroline Zern, Yung's doubles partner reinforces Yung's concern for the team. 
"Renee is a very supportive, team­oriented player," commented Zern. "Her main objective is to help out the team in any way she can." 
"The whole team is working very hard," commented Yung, preoc­cupied with the thought of the na­tional championships, which will be held in Kansas City, Missouri, in late May. 
She added that while she has her mind in every match she plays, she is also thinking about improving and gaining confidence for nationals. 
"(Coach) Jo-Ann (Nester) has scheduled a lot of good teams this season to prepare us (for nation­als)," she said. "I am very much looking forward to nationals." 
The Belles will be hosting the Irish at 3:00 this afternoon. And Yung most definitely has some goals set for the match. 
"We want to beat Notre Dame," 
she said. "Stroke for stroke I feel we 
are as good as they are. We're all 
looking forward to this match." 

singles and No. 2 doubles positions for the Belles. She feels most com­fortable playing doubles because that is the position she played in high school. However, she enjoys playing singles, too, and feels she is learning more with every match she plays. 
Bookstore 
continuedfrom page 12 
sixth round of the tournament. Armed and Dangerous Ill fell victim to WBBS, 21-13, at 6:15 on Stepan 3. 
WBBS jumped out to a 9-2 lead, but A and D came within two at 12­
10. Three consecutive outside jumpers for WBBS put the game out of reach, then. Mike "Hopper" Crowley hit nine of his 10 shots for the winners, while Dave Taiclet canned 6-of-9 for A and D. 
A lot of people passed up Hun­garian Noodle Bake at the dining hall to see Tofu Vegetables I on Stepan 1 at 5:00. They were not disappointed, as both the noodle bake and the Veggies lived up to expectations. The stir-fried freshmen from Alumni ran Phi Runna Gunna off the court, 21-12. Bill ZadeH hit 7-of-11 and teammate Paul Reuvers pitched in 6­of-7 for the winners. Andy Reardon went 4-of-7 for the losing fraternity. 
Ed Smierciak and Four Other 
Renee Yung 

her secomd year playing with the team. She spent her sophomore year in Ireland, and during her junior year she switched majors and needed to catch up academically. She made the difficult decision not 
Guys Better Than John Paxson con­tinued to roll yesterday, knocking off Keenan Inmates; 21-13, on Bookstore 10 at 5:00. Ken Schuer­man paced the winners with 1 0-of­19 shooting, while Rick Bliha hit 5-of-23 for the Keenan residents. 
Another crisis hit Ethiopia yester­day, as the last Ethiopian teams in Bookstore XIV bowed out of com­petition. Josephus and the Ethiopian Shim Sham was knocked out by First Source Bank Travelling All Stars and Motor Kings, 21-1 7, on Stepan 2 at 
6:15. Dan Duff led the All Stars with 10points on 17 attempts, whileJohn Reilly hit 6-of-12 for the Ethiopians. 
Five Ethiopians Hungry To Win were starved on Lyons 12 at 5:00 by Dangling Manhood. Joe Howard's 9­of-15led the 21-of-39 winners to the victory, 21-12. Dan Johnston went 4-of-14 in the Ethiopians' losing ef­fort. 
A large, boisterous crowd gat­hered around Bookstore 9 at 6:15, when Let's Go Crazy met Revenge Factor. The crazies took a small lead early in the contest and held on to win, 21-14. Steve Nicgorski canned 8-of-14 from the field and hauled down 11 boards to lead the winners. Paul Schoner went 5-of-1 5 and grabbed six rebounds for Revenge Factor. 

A smaller, more subdued crowd kept time as two Rhythm Methods battled on Bookstore 10 at 6:15. The pre-tournament naming ofthe teams proved correct, as Rhythm Method {I) beat Rhythm Method II, 21-17. The two teams were neck-and-neck for most of the game, but the better Method pulled ahead at 16-14 and never looked back again. John Sheehan hit 8-of-18 for the winning Method, and joe Butkovich went 6­of-12 for the second Method. 
Other fifth-round winners were Showtime, Four Dingleberries and a Kresgie, Red Barons, Jimmy G. and the Spots, Rousseau's Noble Savages and Tequila White lightn­ing. 
The Sweet Sixteen will pair off today on the asphalt ofLyons and the bookstore. All games start at 5:00 or 6:15. 


The Observer Wednesday, April 24, 1985-page 10 
Irish linebackers continue progress over spring 
Notre Dame baseball squad splits a twinbill 
By SEAN MURPHY 
Sports Writer 

lbe Notre Dame baseball team split a doubleheader with the Flyers ofLewis University yesterday, hiking its record to 16-22-1 in the process. After losing the first game by a score of 9-4, the Irish bounced back to take an impressive I 1-'5 victory in game 2. 
In the first game, Irish pitcher Dan Sacchini ( 1-2) lasted only two-thirds of an inning, giving up four walks and three runs. Lewis never trailed in the game as pitcherjohn Rifnstuhl threw all seven innings for the Flyers, yielding only four runs on eight hits. 
The Irish trailed 9-1 going into the seventh inning, when senior john Murphy hit a pinch-hit solo homerun and junior Tom Shields belted a two run homer. Although the Irish lost the game, their dor­mant bats were beginning to come alive. 
The hitting continued in the second game as the Irish exploded 
By MARlY BURNS 
Sports Writer 

The injuries which decimated the 
Notre Dame linebacking corps last 
year may not have been a total waste 
after all. 

The fact that several raw talents 
emerged into capable players with 
the experience granted because of 
those injuries means that the Irish 
linebacking crop should be an ex­
tremely deep and effective bunch 
for this year's campaign. 

So far through the 1985 spring 
season, the packed squad of healthy 
linebackers has shown much of that 
expected depth and talent. And that 
Is a good sign for the Irish, because 
the success ofthe four linebackers in 
the 3-4 defensive alignment will be 
an integral factor in the overall 
success of the defense. 

Overseeing the progress of the 
linebackers during the spring 
practice sessions are Irish assistant 
coaches George Kelly and Bishop 
Harris. Harris, in his second year of 
duty on the Irish staff after a brief 
stint as an assistant at Louisiana State 
University, handles the outside 
linebackers, while the 16-year 
veteran, Kelly, watches over on the 
inside. 

Kelly's players at the inside 
linebacker position are called upon 
not only to make tackles but to con­
tain the running game and take away 
the short pass as well. 

"The inside linebacker has to be 
adept at covering the short pass and 
playing the run," says Kelly. "They 
should be the leading tacklers." 

Kelly's prize pupil of the bunch, 
6-2, 231 lb. Tony Furjanic, led the 
entire squad in tackles in 1983, but 
ligament damage in his leg kept him 
out of action for most of the '84 
season. Furjanic, who still managed 
to finish fifth in tackles for the year, 
has the added responsibility this 
year of being one of the four Irish 
captains, as well as the defensive 
signal-caller in the huddle. 

"Tony (Furjanic) is an outstand­
ing football player," says Kelly. "He's 
also assumed the position of leader­
sl\ip with aU the authority with 
which I thought he would." 

Although junior all-America can­didate Furjanic has been the anchor in the middle for the Irish this spring, his injury last season allowed a few other players to stake an ex­perienced claim to the back-up role. 
Among those players who are seeing action this spring in the middle are juniors Dave Butler and John McCabe. McCabe, a 6-3, 228lb. native of Arlington Heights, Ill., saw action in every game last season for 16 hits and 1 1 runs. The Irish scored in each of the first five in­nings, and led 11-1 at that point. 
Junior pitcher Mark Wauke (2-2) collected the win for the Irish as he threw six innings and gave up only three earned runs. Senior Jason Schomer came on in relief and was awarded the save. For the Flyers losing pitcher Pat McKune was pulled in the second inning after giving up five runs. 
The big bats for the Irish in game two belonged to senior captain Jackie Moran and sophomore John Loughran. Moran was 4-for-5 and scored three times, while Loughran collected three hits on four at-bats. 
One of Moran's runs was batted in by junior Rich Vanthournout, on a record-tying line drive hit to center­field. The hit was Vanthournout's 56th of the season, tying the record set by Mike Metzler last year. 
The Irish moved to 16-22-l with the win, while the Flyers fell to 30­
15. Notre Dame will travel to Ohio today to face Bowling Green in anot­her non-conference doubleheader. 
after making the switch from nose tackle. Although McCabe played rat­her well in filling in for his injured teammates, his progress has been slowed this spring by nagging in­juries. The 6-3, 221 lb. Buder, meanwhile, saw less action than did McCabe, but has made significant strides this spring toward getting some more playing time in the fall. 
To the side ofthese players will be another inside linebacker -the strong side linebacker. As ofthis mo­ment, 6-2, 218 lb. Mike Kovaleski and 6-3, 227 lb. Ron Weissenhofer are neck-and-neck in the race. 
Kovaleski, who broke his col­larbone earlier in the year and who 
Spring Football 
sCI'85 
is sitting out the spring drills, would 
seem to be the favorite for the posi­
tion. After aU, the sophomore led the 
team in tackles by a wide margin last 
year despite the fact that he was able 
to start only eight games because of 
various minor injuries. Still, Kelly 
feels that Kovaleski's injury this 
spring may have impeded his 
development to a significant degree. 
"Mike Kovaleski has started for us 
the past two years," says Kelly. "But 
he could have improved even more 
ifhe had not been hurt this spring." 
Weissenhofer, meanwhile, has missed quite a few games over the past two seasons because of nagging injuries. This year, he finally has been healthy for a spring session, and the chance to play has paid off so far for the junior from Oak Lawn, Ill. 
"There will be a battle between W eissenhofer and Kovaleski for the position," notes Kelly. "Weissenhofer was out for almost a year and a half as a result of injuries, but he's really starting to get back into the groove now, and he's impressing us." 
Playing admirably behind Weis­senhofer this spring has been 6-5, 210 lb. freshman Weslt:y Pritchett. 
"Pritchett is one freshman that has certainly emerged this spring," adds Kelly. "I think the injury to Kovaleski has allowed him to get all the work which he needed. It's con­ceivable that the strong side will be split up to make room for Wesley in the fall." 
Also seeing action this spring at the inside linebacker spots are 6-1, 195 lb. freshman Greg Harris, and 6­

Sweet Sixteen to the Finals 
4/24 BK 9 6:15 
4/26 BK 9
Rhythm Method 
6:15 
Tequila White  
Lightning  4/27  
ST1  4/28  
4/24 BK 10 6:15  6:00  ST 1  
Jimmy G. &  3:00  
the Spots  

WBBSGoes Off the Air  
4/24 LV 116.:15  
Showtime  4/26 BK 9 5:00  

4 Fags & a Zahmbie 4124 BK 10 5:00 
Red Barons 
2, 205 lb. sophomore Tom Gal­loway. 
All in all, Kelly seems pleased with the play ofhis inside men this spring, but he notes that many ofthese com­binations are subject to change. 
"This has been a very good spring for us inasmuch as we've had so many more players missing in the past," notes Kelly. "The fact that so many have been able to participate this spring has given us a better look at the depth. 
"It's difficult these days for one set of linebackers to play the entire game. We have much more con­fidence this spring in the backup people." 
Confidence is what Bishop Harris must have felt when he looked at his array of experienced outside linebackers this spring. He saw returning starters Robert Banks and Rick DiBernardo, top-substitute Cedric Figaro, and newcomer Mike Larkin, who moved over to the outside after starting at the inside linebacker last season. 
Actually, Harris has seen little this spring of the 6-3, 238 lb. DiBer­nardo. The junior from Garden Grove, Cal., had surgery recently on his wrist, and is expected to remain out of action until the fall. But, then again, Harris has already seen DiBer­nardo's 30 tackles last season, and he knows his extensive capabilities. 
"DiBernardo will definitely play a major role," says Harris. "He played an awful lot for us last fall, and we'll count on him heavily again this year." 
The 6-1, 221 lb. Larkin, meanwhile, has used the spring to its fullest to reacclimate himself to the same outside position where he had worked last spring. Injuries to key personnel on the inside, however, forced Larkin to abandon the experi­ment and move back over to his old position. 
Harris, meanwhile, has been quite impressed with the quickness and attitude ofhis defensive stalwart. 
"Mike was behind the others com­ing into the spring," says Harris. "The only experience he had at outside was all from practice. But 
he's  a  quality  athlete,  and  he's  
responded well."  
Harris  sees  Larkin  as  the "big­ 

play" type of player. Larkin, who is also a captain on the squad this year, showed this in the fall by connecting on 39 tackles in an injury-shortened season. 
"Mike has the knack for making things happen," adds Harris. "He just has to continue to work hard." 
Rounding out the situation at the outside are 6-5, 234 lb. sophomore 
Summer Special Rates 
STORAGE 
RESERVATION CALL NOW 
683·1959 
•:VERY 
CLOSE TO CAMPUS 

•APPROX 
ll!2 MILES NORTH US 31-33 

•GATES 
OPEN ALL DAY SUNDAY 


Master Mini Warehouses 

Tonight and Tomorrow Night 
'The Urban Guerillas' 
80¢ Bud drafts and $1 mixed drinks 21 I.D. required 
Friday ... Quarter Beers 
Dangling Manhood 
4/24 LY 12 6:15 
4/26 BK 10 Let's Go Crazy 6:15 
Tofu Vegetables I 
4/27 
ST1 
4/24 L Y 11 \5:00 
5:00 
Ed Smierclak & 4 Other Guys ... 
4126 BK 10 5:00  First Source Bank...  
4 Dingleberries & a Kresgie  
Rousseau's Noble Savages  

Robert Banks, and 6-3, 2351b. fresh­man Cedric Figaro. 
Banks has seen a great deal of ac­tion this spring, and he has continued to play like he did in the fall when he started all II contests and registered 68 tackles. 
"Banks improved every game last year," notes Harris, "and he has a great attitude this spring. He's a much-improved player." 
Harris has even more inspiring words for Figaro, who made 30 tackles last year while filling in for injured starters. 
"Figaro is probably one ofthe best freshman in the nation," says Harris. "He has the potential to be a great player. He just has to keep working hard like he has in the spring so far." 
6-3, 190 lb. freshman Darrel Gor­don and 6-4, 200 lb. sophomore Lee Ritzau also have played some downs this spring at the position. 
Inside and outside, this spring the Fighting Irish appear to have the quality athletes and the necessary depth. 


------------~-~------------­
~4(Jt~C3L~---------------------------------------W--e-dn_e_s_d_ar_._A_p_ri_l-24_,_1_9_8_5___P_ag~e---11
Bloom County 
NO/I 111€ MNIINA 
COMPI/Ttf{ COMPANY 
®t.l1N'T HINFI fltell / mcY 
WCRe AU. I 
HAfl/1 
Zeto 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Find fault 5 Philippine 
knives 10 A few 14 Two-toed sloth 15 Warehouse 16 Veracious 17 Country singer 
from Houston 20 Hot time in 
Le Havre 21 Meet defiantly 22 Caravan stops 23 Sympathy 24 Hindu garment 26 Vie vocally 29 Current counter 32 Onto 33 Second-string 
unit 34 Attributable 36 Songstress 
from Detroit 40 Expert 41 Shore birds 42 Potpourri 43 One at a 
All Rights Reserveii

clandestinP meeting 45 Collard and 9 D.C. VIP 
putting 1 0 Sea connector 47 Sunrise spo~ 11 Bauxite and 48 Goddess of galena 
discord 12 Horsy hybrid 49 Very in musrc 13 Snigglers' 52 Verbal quarry 
53 Not many 18 Mine approach 56 Actress from 19 Note sequence 
Richmond 23 Sharp spasm 60 Make money 24 Ducks 61 Charter 25 Nanking nanny 62 Privy to 26 Nicholas l!'s 63 Matures parliament 64 Shoulder shags 27 Lunarcal 65 Take ten culation 
28 Kind of insect 

DOWN 29 Rose essence 1 Solid square 30 Magistrate oi 2 Med. course old Rome 3 Seldom seen 31 Spat 4 Bar in Bristol 33 Calais chapeau 5 Scold severely 35 Selves 6 Earedseal 37 Attack 7 Metalized 38 Decays 
material 39 Digits 8 WWIIagency 44 Aches 

One of the most hilarious comedies 
ever made... starring BILL MURRAY: 
CADDYSHACK 
Showing tonight and tomorrow night April 24 & 25 7:00, 9:15, 11:30 $1.50 
1H€Y ll!PN'T SIJFF€f(., lllfl 71{f;Y .?! 
tr WIISN'r A.• /1
PIIINFV/.. 
6NP, WAS IT!.?.. 

IT SAYS HERE" 111'\T !:X£TO THE NE\J ECONOMIC BalM, PAN­~IWDLJNG HAS YIELDED 
MORE T'10NEY THAN EV 
Tuesday's Solution 

4/24/85 45 Social 53 Delicately amenities formed 46 Streamlet 54 Seth's son 48 Obliterate 55 Hit the road 49 Befuddled 57 Graceful tree 50 Kind of rug 58 Vote for 51 Royal title 59 Breathing 52 Muscat and -material 
wet./.., FRANKt.Y, mer lOST #319 Mll/.ION IN MARCH Af..()Ne. 11-1€ CH/lfRMAN OF me BOAJW fllfl/1 SWAN PtVe OIIT OF A 63KP Ft.00R WfN/?OW 
Afr&l? fii/NTTN& ''CIIfl1llli5M 
5t(;K5"IICf(()SS HIS 
\ 

Berke Breathed The Far Side 
Kevin Walsh 
UNDER 11 8f6GARS UP /N ALMS OVER 
~W'IOMY:' 
As Thak worked frantically to start a fire, a 
Cro-Magnon man, walking erect, approached 
the table and simply gave Theena a light. 

Campus 
•9 
a.m.· 4 p.m.-AcademicApparel Rental, Final Day For Placing Orders For Faculty and Graduating Seniors, Hammes Bookstore. 

•12 
p.m. -Lectur~, "Good Intentions-Bad Results: Reflections on the Bishops' Letter on the Economy," Prof. John Olin, George Mason University, Law School Student Lounge. 

•4:20 
p.m. -Physics Colloquium, "Diluted Masgnetic Semiconductors: The Interface Between Semiconductor Physics and Mag­netism," Prof. ]acek Furdyna, Purdue, Room 118 Nieuwland. 

•4:30 
p.m. -Tri-Military Presidential Review, ACC Parking Lot. 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Structure and Regulation of the Dihydrofolate Reductase Gene," Prof. Robert Schimke, M.D., Galvin Auditorium. 

•4:30 
p.m. -PoetryReading, Phyllis Moore, Local Poet, South Lounge, 2nd Floor Mez­zanine, Cushwa-Leighton Library, SMC, Sponsored by SMC Dept. of English, Free. 

•7, 
9:15 & 11:30 p.m.-Film, "Caddyshack," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Stu­dent Activities Board, S1.50. 

•7 
p.m. -RASTA Meeting, Little Theatre, LaFortune. 

•
7 p.m. -Meeting, ForAll Dorm Community Service and Social Concerns Representatives, Chatauqua. 


TV Tonight 
6:00p.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
6:30p.m.  16  NBC Nightly News  
22  CBS Evening News  
28  ABC World News Tonight  
7:00p.m.  16  M*A"S"H  
22  Three's Company  
28  jeopardy  
7:30p.m.  16  Barney Miller  
22  WKRP in Cincinnati  
28  Wheel ofFortune  
8:00p.m.  16  Highway to Heaven  
22  Double Dare  
28  Fall Guy  

WANTED: ~ 
Hard working, fun loving people who want to make the '85-'86 school year the best ever. How can this objective be achieved? By calling Steve at 239-7757 and joining 
**The Special Events Committee** j Help out with: 
ANTOSTAL FALL FESTIVAL MARDI GRAS WELCOME WEEK 
•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Vietnam War: An Ap· praisal After Ten Years," Prof. Charles Tull, IUSB, Carroll Hall (SMC). 

•7:30 
p.m. -Public Policy Workshop, "Losing Ground: American Social Welfare Policy 1950·1980," Dr. Charles Murray, Man­hattan Institute, Library Auditorium. 

•7:30 
p.m. -Finance Club Meeting, Room 122 Hayes Healy. 

•8 
p.m. -Toastmasters Officers' Meeting, LaFortune Lobby. 

•8:30 
p.m. -Seminar, Informal Panel Discus­sion, "The Dual Career Marriage," Little Theatre, LaFortune, Sponsored by Student Alumni Relations Group. 

•1
0 p.m. -Meeting, Sponsored by NewYork City Alumni Club, Alumni Room, Morris Inn, Free. 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Menu 
Roast Pork Loin Vegetable Quiche Enchilada Csrle 
St. Mary's Menu Turkey Cutlet Filet ofFish Parisienne Spanish Omelet Potato Pancakes 
·  
9:00p.m. 9:30p.m. 10:00p.m.  16 22 28 16 16  Facts ofLife Movie ­Sunset limousine Hotel Sara St. Elsewhere  
ll:OOp.m. 11:30p.m. 12:00a.m. 12:30a.m. 2:00a.m.  16 22 28 16 22 28 28 16 22  NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News Newswatch 28 Tonight Show Magnum/Movie ABC News Nlghtline Love Connection Late Night With David Letterman Nightwatch  



Former varsity basketballplayer Casey Newell of Bees, scored five points to help lead his team to an the Red Barons, shown reachingfor the ballyester­easy 21-5 victory. For more on yesterday's dayinhis team'sgameagainstPee Wee and the Wee Bookstore action, see Phil Wolfs story below. 
Exciting action marks yesterday's play as Bookstore field cut to 16 
By PHIL WOLF 
Assistant Sports Editor 

Most of the games were not as dose as might be expected this far into the tournament, but the fifth round of Book.~tore Basketball XIV did have its e~citing moments yes­terday. 
There were a few close contests, a couple blowouts and some great in­dividual efforts. There was crowd support and referee abuse. And there was some good basketball as the "Sweet Sixteen" emerged from the original field of 560 teams. 
One of the most closely contested games of the day was on Stepan 4 at 5:00, when The Chairmen of the Boards met Four Fags and a Zahmbie. It took 22 points, but the Howard-Zahm combination put the Chairmen out of the tournament with excellent outside shooting. The winners outshot their op-· ponents, 22-of-38 to 20-of-45. 
Zahmbie Chris Campilii hit 6-of-7 for his team, while Howard's Dan Michelini went 6-of-10. Jeff jones was 6-of-1 5 for the Chairmen, and teammate Dan Kerrigan pegged 6­of-16. 
The Board members were able to outrebound the freshmen, l 7-16. Howard's john Patino hit all four of 
t\1?\ Bookstore 
\ffi7-,, \ / / XIV /..----;. --:;_; \ //
' . tiD' '/ 
his shots, while Chairman Dave Det­mer was a perfect 3-of-3. 
The next game on Stepan 4 pitted Mr. Coffey and the Non Dairy Creamers against Revenge of the Fun Bunch at 6:1 5. To say that the Creamers got creamed would be as inaccurate as saying that the Fun Bunch had a fun day of basketball yesterday (not to mention that the puns are getting worn out). At the end of the hard-fought game, it was the Fun Bunch that was victorious, 21-18. 

Matt Dingens paced the winners with 7-of-13, while Eric janowsky hussled his way to nine points on 18 attempts for the Creamers. The Fun Bunch hit 21-of-45 as a team, while the losers made 18-of-44. The Bunch had a 27-13 rebound advantage. 
Uncoachables could have used a little assistance from the sidelines yesterday on Stepan 2 at 5:00. Weethy's Warriors won that battle, 21-15, with a 26-19 margin on the boards and some good shooting. Keith Sawayda hit half of his 20 shots, mostly from the outside, for the Warriors and pulled down seven rebounds. Allyn Morris hit 6-of-8 and crashed the boards successfully six times. Scott Veselick got inside well to hit 6-of-12 and grabbed seven rebounds for the coachless losers. 
WBBS Goes Offthe Air still will be 
broadcasting this afternoon in the 
see BOOKSTORE, page 9 
Eight teams advance in Women's Bookstore; action continues today 
By MICHAEL FlANNERY 
Sports Writer 

Four of the 'Elite Eight' have been chosen. Four others will make it today. But those teams who were victorious yesterday won't have long to celebrate. The women's 1985 Bookstore Tournament is win­ding down to a furious finish. 
Four games played yesterday pitted 'Sweet Sixteen' teams against each other, with the winners gaining aspot in the final eight-team bracket. Yesterday's four other winners merely gained entrance into the 'Sweet Sixteen', and will face each ot­her today to advance to the round of eight. 
To start, let's look at the games which completed the 'SweetSixteen. • 
On Stepan 1, 2 Enlightened Souls, 2 Healers and an Embezzler Who Play Hoops did indeed show up to play, but without much success. Going All the Way had little trouble handling this motley crew, 21-11, as Kathy lmmonen hit 5-of-13 and Theresa Schwebel hit 5-of-9 in the 15-4 victory. Meghan Flattery also 
chipped in, canning 4-of-6. jackie 
Kennedy and Susie Baker  were  a  
combined 2-for-18 for the losers.  
3  Wenches,  A  Smick,  and  a  

Hatchet weren't enough to stop Negligence. Renee Lanam made seven of 22 shots and Yvonne Brad­ley shot 10-for-34 for Negligence as they posted a 21-13 victory. Mary Langer (6-17) and Sarah Molinsky (6-20) led 3 Wenches, etc. 
Balanced scoring helped Five Women Who Want to Go All the Way (and Play B-Ball, too) crush Why?, 21-17. 5-5-4-4-3 scoring was more than enough to offset Why?'s combined 7-of-27. Even better, 4 of the Five Women... shot better than 50 percent. 
The best game of the day oc­curred on Stepan 4 at 4:00. Does on Their Own went into overtime to beat The Violent Femmes, 23-21. Mary Ellen Mileski ( 6-11) and Laura Gleason (6-12) helped tame their fortnidable opponent. Mary Borkowski might have changed the outcome if she had shot better than 4-22. jane Weldon carried the losers, hitting 1 0-of-19. 

The other four games yesterday were for a spot in the 'Elite Eight.' 
The Quixotic Quint proved they could do more than battle windmills as they beat We Shave Points but Not for Drugs, 21-14. Reggie Richter dominated the game, hitting 13-of­24 to lead her team. Karen Phelps ( 5-19) and Beth Nolan ( 4-9) led the losers. 
Foul Trouble squeaked by Slam­mers 21-18 on Bookstore l 0. Carrie Bates did most of the damage for the winners. She canned an impressive 12-of-16 shots. Heather Koch bombed away all day for Slammers but only came up with eight points after taking 30 shots. 
On Lyons 11, the DUI's crushed Skippies Need Not Apply, 21-7. Nancy Fitzpatrick hit 7-of-15 to lead the assault. jackie Gibbons shot 4-14 in a losing cause. 
On Lyons 12, RTHBKA rolled over The Dialectics, 21·2. RTHBKA were led by Dava Newman, who threw in 8-of-1 7 shots. The Dialectics should have stayed home. They managed only 12 shots for the game. 
Wednesday, April24, 1985-page 12 
Some Irish trivia to test your minds 
Chuck Freeby 
Irish Items 

Hello again, everybody! 
'Twas the next to last column 
And all through my mind Ran trivia questions Ofall different kinds 
There was football and basketball 
And with a little more fuss Records and nick.names And miscellaneous 
Questions that are easy 
And some that are ~tumpers On folks who hit homers Slapshots and jumpers 
I k.now these are hard But in case you get stuck I've provided the answers So I wish you good luck 
ND Football .. 1 ) Name the only player in the NCAA last year to have a higher scoring average than Allen Pinkett. 2) What ND player holds the NCAA record for best field goal percentage from 40 yards or more? .3 )What two uniform numbers have been worn by more NO All-Americans than any others? 4) Who was the last Irish player to win the Heisman? 5) Who was the last Irish player to return a punt for a touchdown? 
Answers-I) Keith Byars, Ohio State. 2)John Carney. 3) 32 and 85. 
4)john Huarte. 5) Tim Simon vs. Navy, 1973. 
ND Basketball .. I) Three basketball conferences own winning records against Notre Dame in basketball. Name them. 2) Who are the only four players in Irish women's basketball history to score 1,000 points? .3) What team gave Digger Phelps his first career win at ND? 4) Who was the last ND player to become a member of the U.S. Olympic basketball team? 5) Who is the only forward ever to lead NO in assists? 
Answers -I ) lbe ACC, SEC, and Pac-t 0. 2) Shari Matvey, Mary Beth Schueth, Carrie Bates, and Trena Keys. 3) Valparaiso. 4) Bill Hanzlik, 1980. 5) Jim Dolarl. 
Irish Records... l ) What fencer holds the NO record for best percentage with the foil? (Hint: He's still with the team.) 2) This NFL player holds the ND record for the 60-yard dash. Name him. 3) Who holds the ND record for the fastest pin in a wrestling meet? 4) This former major leaguer holds the ND career record for triples. Name him. 5) What player holds the career scoring record (points and assists) in Irish soccer history? 
Answers -l) Mike DeCicco, current Irish coach. 2) Greg Bell, 6.32 seconds. 3) Mike Golic, 14 seconds. 4) Shaun Fitzmaurice, who played for the New York Mets. 5) Richard Herdegen. 
Nicknames... Give the nick.names of the following Irish athletes. 
1) Ken Soos, baseball. 2) Dan Duff, basketball. 3) Mary Beth Schueth, women's basketball. 4) Ron Wisniewski, wrestling. 5) Charles Smith, hockey coach. 
Answers ... l) Doctor. 2) Double Dee. 3) Scootie. 4) Whizzer. 5) Lefty. 
Miscellaneous... l) Notre Dame hired new coaches in four var­sity sports this year. Name the sports and the new mentors. 2) What are the three conferences in which NO particpates? 3) What former NO player is captain of the Philadelphia Flyers? 4) What current South Bend broadcaster was once a Notre Dame coach? 5) Name two former ND players who collected 3,000 hits in their major league baseball careers. 
Answers -1)Art Lambert, volleyball;Jill Undenfeld, field hockey; Dennis Grace, soccer; Fran McCann, wrestling. 2) Midwestern City Conference, North Star Conference, and Midwest Lacrosse Associa­tion. 3) Dave Poulin. 4) jeffjeffers (asst. baseball coach, 1976). 5) Cap Anson and Carl Yastrzemski. 
So now you have finished 
And your mind has gone numb Except for one thought Which is "Freeby, you scum!" 
"You have given me questions 
Which are far beyond hope And I have sat here And looked like a dope" 
Yes, many questions were hard That much is true But there's no need to sit there 
Feeling saddened and blue just look at it this way Before you abuse me After taking this test 
Won't your finals look easy? Pick ofthe Week ... OK, so I'm no Robert Frost (or David Frost or Jack Frost, for that matter), but this week's pick is worth paying attention to. The Irish lacrosse team could take a bigstep in deciding the championship of the Midwest Lacrosse Association this weekend. The Irish stickmen face archrival Ohio Wesleyan on Satur­day at 1:30 on Cartier Field, before entertaining Wittenburg on Sun­day. 





