
Sophmore Literary Festival -pages 6-7 

1 
1 
,\ 
, 
~ 
l 
l 
SMC ready for change 
Decision 
supr1s1ng

and 'new leadership' • • 
forSMC 
ByTIIERESA GUARINO have a hand in. "In fact," he said, AssistantNews Editor "I've agreed to stay on as a consul­tant to the College for a number of 
community 
Saying his decision was "not years." arrived at easily," Saint Mary's Presi­Duggan said that "an institution of By LUCY KAUFMAN dent John Duggan announced his 140 years does not depend on one News Staff resignation Friday after 1 0 years at individual," and thinks his decision tt•e College. is the best "for me and for Saint College President John Duggan's 
The resignation will take effect Mary's at this time." announcement Friday that he would June 30, 1985. Duggan's tenure at Saint Mary's resign shocked members ofthe Saint 
Students and faculty members has seen the endowment raised from Mary's community. received a letter Friday notifying $3 to S 16 million, and the construc­Student Body President-elect, them of the resignation. tion of two new buildings; the $7 Anne Marie Kollman said she was 
The announcement was also million Cushwa-Leighton Ubrary surprised at first but could under­made by Sister Frances Bernard, su­and the S 1 million Angela Athletic stand his reasoning and his desire to perior general of the Sisters of the Facility. In addition, the old move on. Kollman said she was sad Holy Cross, and Sister Madonna Alumnae Centennial Ubrary was to hear of Duggan's resignation, as Murphy, chairwoman of the Board renovated into the Haggar College he was always a friendly face who ap­of Regents during the winter Center, and work on an addition to preciated what students had to say. meeting ofthe Executive Governing Science Hall will begin this summer. Sophomore Susan Govert is also Board of the College. Duggan carne to Saint Mary's from sad to see him resign. "He did a good 
Duggan said he is ready for new Vassar College, where he served as job for the College. He was a really directions, and believes the College vice president of student affairs and truthful guy who always stopped to is ready for new leadership. Such professor of psychology for seven talk to students. He will be missed." leadership, he said, "should come years. Sophomore Ellen Stack said, "He about, not in a time of institutional was really great for the College. He weakness, but when the educational He also taught at the Canterbury managed to turn the College around and financial strengths of the Col­School in Conn., the University of financially and really did a good job lege encourage rc-assertion of tradi­Bridgeport, and was director of ofit." tional goals." guidance services and program de­Aside from the disappointment, 
Personally, Duggan said he needs velopment at the College Entrance students were shocked and many "new challenges" and would like to Examination Board. In 1963, he was did not believe the news at first. go on to new work. And at 56, he promoted to vice president of the "I was really shocked. I under­said, "If I'm to do one more profes­board. stand why he resigned. He's been sional task, I'd better be getting to Duggan is president ofthe Indiana here 10 years," commented sopho­it." Conference on Higher Education, more Denise Kilway. "However, I 
"I am confident that Saint Mary's and is a member of the board of think we should have been informed faces the future with great strengths directors of the Independent Col­before the press so we were not as built on strong traditions, an excel­leges and Universities ofIndiana. He clueless as to what was happening." lent faculty and an outstanding stu­was a director of the Association of Freshman Laurel Horvath added, dent body." Catholic Collges and Universities, "I'm really sad to see him go now. I A search committee will be and served on the executive com-would have liked to have him formed in the quest for a new presi­around at least until our graduation. dent, a process Duggan said he will see DUGGAN, page 3 He's a really great man who has done an awful lot for this College. I wish we could have been informed of the resignation before Friday af­

Escort policy restated 
ternoon when I got his letter. At first, on Friday morning, I thought it was By ELLYN MASTAKO mediately offered to drive us to just a n1mor."
Saint Mary's College President john Duggan announced his resig­
News Staff LeMans." Others haven't been as "I was really impressed with the
nation Friday at a press conference in the Stapleton Lounge of
lucky. There have been reports of 
LeMans Hall. 
Complaints about long waits and half-hour waits for an escort. see REACTIONS, page 3 lectures from Saint Mary's security Chlebek responded to complaints personnel escorting Saint Mary's stu­of long waits. "The officers have dents prompted the Student Affairs other assignments such as locking 

ND appointments based on merit
Committee to discuss these prob­and securing the buildings. Once the lems with Director of Safety and Se­buildings are locked they begin curity Richard Chlebek. nightly duties of patrolling and re­ByMARY HEILMANN was a woman who filled the housing for graduate students, 
A letter issued to Saint Mary's checking the buildings. Each time Sentor StaffReporter qualifications, I would like to hire where I see a great problem in the students on Feb. 6, restating the es­they answer an escon call they her, I saw Sister jean as the perfect spaces now available," Reinebold cort policy was a result of this become further behind on their "Gender-blind" is how Father candidate." commented. 
meeting. No new policy was made, scheduled rounds." David Tyson, vice president for stu­Tyson stressed again, however, Other projects confronting her Chlebek simply issued the letter to Security receives an average of dent affairs, described the promo­that "if there was not a woman are the housing of incoming fresh­inform everyone of the services nine calls per weekend night. tions of Evelyn Reinebold to available who met all the criteria and men for the 1985-86 term and the available. Chlebek added, "We have director ofstudent housing and Joni was extremely qualified to fill the upcoming distribution of housing to 
Saint Mary's security has offered responded to calls for escorts and Neal to director ofstudent activities. position, as she ( Lenz) was, I would upperclassmen. escort service for students between have found no one there. Students "I didn't go out to seek women to have chosen a man." Reinebold was noncomittal con­the McCandless parking lot and their often become impatient and walk. fill these positions. In our pool of Reinebold formerly served as sec­cerning the likelihood ofa lottery to dorms, as well as between U.S. 31 They must realize that we do have employees, they were the most retary to the director of student determine on-campus housing, 
znd individual residence halls, for other duties." talented people. It was a matter of housing, a position she held since noting that "several factors, includ­many years. If the officers are busy the dis­their positions already and their tal­1972. Tyson gave her formal ing contracts from overseas, selec­There is a phone on the southwest patcher is responsible for telling the ents that made each of them the nat­notification of her new position at tion of resident assistants, and side of the McCandless parking lot students how long they will have to ural choice," said Tyson. the commencement of the present selection of students for study­
which is a direct line to security. Stu­wait. Sister Jean Lenz was promoted to school term. abroad programs, have not been dents may use this phone before Chlebek noted, "I would like to associate vice president for student Neal previously held the title of completed." they park their cars. According to stress the fact that ifany ofthe young affairs. acting director ofstudent activities. "I can say, however," Reinebold 
standard procedure they then wait ladies have problems with security Although "the issue of women Reinebold expressed enthusiasm added, "That a quick count of the in their cars with the hazard lights personnel, they should lodge a com­wasn't even there" in the promo­for her new job, but maintained that housing contracts shows that fewer on until a security guard arrives to plaint directly with my office." tions of Reinebold and Neal, Tyson she "did not feel intimidated" in ac­students plan to move off-campus escort them to their dorms. Some concern has .Uso been ex­admitted that it was a consideration cepting a job formerly held by a than in the past." linda DiDomenico, a Saint Mary's pressed regarding the number of in Lenz's promotion. man. Father Michael Heppen, the Tyson summarized the change in 
junior, is impressed with the service. people that security will escort. "If "I felt we were long overdue for a former director, is now director of Reinebold's position from secretary "A security guard noticed six of us woman in a senior administrative student accounts. returning late one night and he im-see ESCORT, page 3 position. Having in mind that ifthere "We're now striving to find more see CHANGES, page 3 




--------------------------------------------..r--------~ 
The Observer Monday, February 25, 1985 -page 2 

John M. Duggan, president of Saint Mary's, will deliver the commencement address at Youngstown State University, June l 5. Margaret Hall Cushwa, a resident of Youngstown and past member of the Saint Mary's College Board of Regents, will receive the 1985 Distinguished Citizen Award from Youngstown State Uni­versity's Alumni Association at the commencement. She also will receive an honoragy degree from the university.-The Obseroer 
SisterJean Kiene, professor and chairman ofthe En­glish Department at Saint Mary's, is one 1 0 professors from Indiana colleges and universities chosen to receive a Lilly Endowment, Inc. fellowship for 1985-86. Kiene will use her fellowship to study renais­sance art as a means of integrating essential background material from this historical period with the literature she teaches. She will examine the Purdue University collection of illuminated Medieval manuscripts from the Bodleian Ubrary and travel extensively. She plans to study original works ofart and purchase slides ofthem to be used in future classroom work. · Tbe Observer 
The Rev. Jesse Jackson and comic Bill Cosby 
kicked off a drive to raise S 1 million for civil rights causes with a "Rainbow Radiothon" relayed live Saturday from New York City to 50 other stations around the country. "This is an historic approach to fund-raising and reaching out to our people," Jackson said during the opening of the three-hour broadcast from WUB-FM. Stations taking part in the drive added local celebrities to the bill in the effort to raise funds for Jackson's National Rainbow Coalition, sponsors said. Criticizing President Reagan and Congress for cutting federal aid to the poor,Jackson said, "We can not expect to ride to freedom on the pharoah's chariot. Nobody will support us but us." -AP 
Of Interest 

All undergraduateS who plan to enroll for the Fall Semester, 1985-86 must advance enroll by March 6, 1985. The Ad­vance Enrollment card must be returned along with a S 1 00 deposit. The card should be turned in to Student Accounts, 102 Administra­tion Building or mailed through the U.S. Postal Service to Box T, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Do not use Campus Mail. A S20 late fee will be charged if the card is not turned in by the deadline. Course selection materials from the Registrar's Office for the Fall Semester, 1985 will be withheld and requests for on-campus housing will not be honored unless the card is received. -The Obseroer 
The Phone-a-thonfor the South Bend Women's care Center will continue Monday through Thursday this week. The phone-a-thon will last from 6:10 until 9:30 each night and requires 150 volunteers to assist in the calling. The two top callers will receive a free spring break trip to Daytona Beach and all participants and the residents of the dorm whose representatives earn the most will be invited to a free film and party. Anyone interested in volun­teering is asked to report to the Development Offices, second floor of the Administration Building, at 6:10 tonight, or call Bill at 283­3001 or Otto at 239-7735. -The Obsen1er 
Cheap Thrills University, formerly Free University, is now is accepting students. Sign-ups will be tonight in the LaFortune Ballroom from 7 to 9. Cheap Thrills University, sponsored by the Student Activities Board, will feature courses in aerobics, photogra­phy, hula, auto mechanics, computers, bartending, investments, self assertion, job interviews, and many more. By the way, it's still free.­
Tbe Obseroer 
Weather 

--,,-1

Partly sunny and mild today. High -oJ 
... ,· ... ' 

in the lower 40s. Mostly cloudy with a 20 per· cent chance ofrain or snow tonight. Low in the I low to mid 30s. Mostly cloudy tomorrow and a little warmer with a 20 percent chance of rain. High in the lower to middle 40s. -AP 
L 

The Observer 
The Ob8erver (t:SPS ';99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notr~ Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S30 per year ( S20 per se­mester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dam~. Indiana 46SS6. 
"IlK Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
T1xlay's issu~ was produced by: 

Design Editor ............................... Troy Illig Design Assistant ........... .... Andi Schnuck Typesetters ................. Cathyann Reynolds 
Vic Guarino 
News Editor.............................. Mark Putter Copy Editor.............................. John Heasly Sports Copy Editor............. Marc Ramirez Viewpoint Copy t:ditor ........ John Heasly Viewpoint Layout ................ Carol Brown Features Copy Editor.............. Sam Moore Features Layout .................. Ellyn Mastako ND Day Editor.......................... Miriam Hill Ad Design ........................ Suzanne LaCroix Ke,·in .\lurphy Photographer..................... le\' Chapelsky 
Paul Pahoresky 
You better think twice before walking out with that doughnut 
You want to know when it started? I'll tell you. But mum's the word. It all began with that dang Syracuse basketball game. 
That's when we were forced to employ the use of a security guard, armed with a revolver and 10 extra rounds of ammunition. Pretty much went unnoticed, until some dumb senior had to go poking his nose where it wasn't his business. 
Well, no problem. Things like that can be corrected. Anybody need four extra tickets for commencement? 
I suppose you want to know who I am, right? Well, I'm one of those blue-uniformed women you see walking around the dining hall, maybe pushing a cart with reinforcement containers of mustard on it or maybe putting more cereal into those strange dis­pensers. Whatever. But although that's what I may appear to be, in reality I am a highly-trained agent with the federal government. I know nine languages fluently already and am taking a class next summer in Swahili. I have a black belt in karate, 

Marc Ramirez 
Assistant News Editor 
aren't you? Don't be so naive. We can do woodeN with electronic circuitry these days. Now we know where all our food is, every bit of it, every day. And that goes for our silverware and our sugar dispensers, too. We worry about this stuff too, you know. 
Let's say you make it past the first set of doors. Just a hypothetical situation, you understand. So let's justsay it. My men can be on top of you within 1.9 seconds. You'll be in handcuffs in 2.5 seconds. You'll be bound and gagged in 4.2 seconds. We know. We've practiced. 
One false move and your 

can handle an M-16 like it roommate gets a 4.0 for the was my favorite toothbrush, semester. The easy way. and my joh is simple: to -And enough of this using­oversee the security of the someone-else's.ID bit. We'll dining hall. not have that anymore. 
So anyway, you under­We've spent the last week stand how it is. You students analyzing the body warmth just can't control your­factor for each and every selves. You require constant one of you, designing our observation, regulation. You machines so that your BWF get a little upset, you throw will register when inserted tantrums. You steal food, into the machine. If it you throw it at each other, doesn't match, you don't eat. yqu do everything but eat it. It's that simple. 
That's where we -uh, I -Now before you go come in. Don't think that we mouthing off to Mummy and don't know where those im­Daddy, you just remember beciles got those oranges this: we will stop at nothing 
that they threw onto the court at the Syracuse game. We're not dumb. They got them from the dining hall. Won't happen again, I assure you. My men can pick off flying projectiles from 30 yards away. And you never know where they are. Ah. that's the beauty of it. 
We thought you students might be just a little out of control when you came back from the Syracuse game. So we prepared. The security guard was only the tip of the iceberg. He would have used those extra 1 0 rounds of ammunition if he had to. Luckily, he didn't have to. 
Go ahead and try stuffing cookies into your purse. Nobody watching you except that girl with the Lyons sweatshirt on, is there? But are you sure she really lives in Lyons? Are you sure she really is a girl? Are you sure that large sandwich on her tray doesn't house a secretly installed mini-camera that is recording your every move? Why is she smiling at you? 
Try walking out with those bananas. Pretty sly, aren't you? Cause a little distraction somehow, weasel out toward the door and then through it, and you're all set, 

to protect our dining hall. 
We don't trust you little heathens any farther than we can send you reeling with one good shot to the temple. Ifyou tell your folks, you may as well tell your roommate that he or she's got a single. Do we understand each other? Good. 
So let's make a deal, kids. You behave yourselves, and we'll lay off. Promise. Do we understand each other? Good. Enjoy your dinner. 
We'll tell you what to do, and you'll like it. You should be used to it by now. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are the views of the author, and do not necessarily reflect the views ofthe editorial board or staff. 


*********************************** 
**  **  
~  We Want You!  ~  
*  *  
~  ~  
~  Applications  ~  
~  for Bill Healy & Duane Lawrence's  ~  

531 N. Michigan St., 
~ 
l&l' Phone 233-4957 JQ; 
* 
l!li.........i ........................................w. ~ 

* ~ 
FlleNow! 
*
* 
Help IRS process more quickly. 
~ ~ 
1985 -86 Cabinet ~ ~ 
are now available ; 2nd Floor LaFortune ~ 
*
* ~ 
Executive Caardinatars ; Cabinet Members : 

~ Transfer DrientatianCammittee ~ ~ Frash Drientatian Cammittee ~ 
* i*
* *
i MAKE A DIFFERENCE * IN * 
* * 
:STUDENT GOVERNMENT i 
~ ~ 
* * 
~ APPLICATIONS DUE ~ ~ March 8, 1!185 ! 
* * 
~ ~ 
*********************************** 
The Observer Monday, February 25, 1985-page 3 
----------------------------------------------~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~------------------~ 
1 
1,
, 
1 
1 

Members of the dance group "Motion" performed Knights of Columbus Hall basement. various dance routines last night at 8:30 in the 

Escort 
continuedfrom page 1 
we know there are four or five stu­dents, we will tell them that there's safety in numbers and will advise the students to walk," said Chlebek. "We also take weather into account and make more allowances during incle­ment weather." 
Notre Dame security will also pro­vide escort service to Saint Mary's students as far as U.S. 31 where they are picked up by Saint Mary's secur-
Thankstoyou•.. it works ... for 
AU. 
OFUS Unlliedway 
The Healy Company 

w
' STUDENT APPRECIATION
HORIZONS 
NIGHT FEB. 25-RCH 2 
The 1985-BCAF Fashion Show 
30% OFF•30% OFF 
--....::::: 
Saturday, March 2, 8:00 pmMonogram Room, NO AC"""-~::;;;-n 

5 p.m. • 10 p.m. PRESENT YOUR ND or Advance Admission 
.~$6.00 
Frank's Red Hots 3450'Shag 
Black Students Office 
Chicago Dogs
BCACOffice 
Coney Dogs

2AA Lafortune 
Gyros

7:30-9:30 pm 
Deli Sandwiches
N-THURS 
Beer SPONSORED BY: 
Literary Festival starts 
ity. However, according to Rex Rakow, assistant security director at 
Reactions 
Notre Dame, "We will provide es­
continuedfrom page 1 

cort service to only one student. It is our policy to decline parties of two way he tried to form a closer rela­or more and to remind them that tionship with students. I was really there is safety in numbers." shocked and sad to see that he 
A I..eMans R.A., who desired resigned and I wish him all the luck anonymitity, related an incident re­in whatever he chooses to do in the garding a lecture by the officer res­future. It will be hard to find some­ponding to their escort call. He told one half as qualified and innovative 
them the weather was warm and as he is," stated freshman Cindy that they really should be walking to Bozik. their dorm since there were two of 
them. "We were concerned for our "It's surprising and the faculty and safety and that's why we called se­staff feel a sense ofloss," commented curity; not because we were lazy." Father Tom Mayefske. "On the other She is concerned that similar hand, we appreciate his sense ofwis­lectures will discourage girls from dom expressed in his letter in calling security a second tine. feeling that getting new leadership 
The R.A. concluded, "The parie­every 1 0 years, in his case, allows the tals system in our dorms gives girls a College to move on to another per­sense ofsecurity that they carrywith son's vision." them on the rest of the campus and into the city of South Bend. They Duggan's resignation will become must realize that most ofthe world is effective June 30, 1985 at which not as protected as our dorms are." time he will take a sabbatical to 
She encourages all students to "rest, write, and to explore other take advantage ofthe esco;-t services forms ofprofessional activity in and available to them. outside of higher education." 
M 
is looking for 
N.m. ~~akespeare Qtlub
bright, aggressive young people in­
will sponsor tltt film 
terested in financial planning and in­
1\1libsummerNigQtfs
surance. Do you qualify? Call the Placement Office today to schedule 
mream 
·an interview for Thursday, February 28, 
filnniluv. J1tbruurv 25tlf
1985. 
7:00 unb 9:30 
Edward M.E. Healy, CLU 
i.Enginttring .Auilitnrium
General Agent, Mutual Life Insurance Co. 
w w
" 
J. Riggins Village Scene Richmond Bros. MiLady Pecks Robertson's Ms. Shoppe 
~Chess King 
Candlelight Fashion 
I M
" " ' 
By CINDY RAUCKHORST 
StaffReporter 
Novelist and short story author Hortense Calisher, acclaimed by critics as "a master ofthe intracacies of the English language," discussed her works last night at the Library Auditorium. 
Calisher's presentation launched the 1985 Sophomore Literary Fes­tival, an annual campus event since 1967. The festival has drawn many notable authors and playwrights to Notre Dame in its seventeen years. 
Chairman Greg Miller introduced 
the festival, "welcoming all to 
celebrate in the spirit of the tradi­
tion ofthe festival." 
Calisher is the recipient of an American Academy of Arts and let­ters Award, a Guggenheim Fellow­ship, and a National Council on the Arts Award. 
"It is easy to celebrate literature if you do it right," Calisher said. "One must celebrate the word with the power of the word," she said. 
"I believe there is something wrong with a writer who does not enjoy his work," she said. "Writing is something which occurs to me as very natural, almost without saying, like a mother having babies." 
Calisher said writing allows her to express some of her most important observations about life. 
"When you have something to say, writing is not difficult," she said. However, she admits that much time is spent carefully choosing each word, so that the work can be per­fected. 
In her many short stories and novels, Calisher makes use ofa wide range ofstyles and subject matters. 
Critic Emily Kahn wrote of Calis­her, "Calisher can manage the medium. She uses words carefully, thoughtfully, and in fresh ways, as a graphic artist might use unexpected shapes and colors." 
Calisher attributes much of her success today to her early love of literature and interest in writing. 
She cites the Bible as an important 
• 


SMC ID and receive 30% off all items on the menu. 
Chris'Ice Cream 
Homemade Ice Cream Banana Splits Homemade Waffles Cones Sundaes 16Mixlns 62 Flavors 
Berman's 

Wfthfn walldnt dfstanee 
Seifert's Hit or Miss 

lf• MILE EAST oF N.D. Cltr~s' 1 
ON ST. RD. 23 AIJ\o£1lfEot0C,~ SffiOJ¥£o Crea... 111
Gilberts 

TRY US! "'"" 
influence in her work, as well as the worksofsome early Russian authors. 
Calisher described her home as "filled with various oddities" which also helped to stimulate her creativity. 
After receiving her B.A. from Bar­nard College, she went on to hold faculty positions at Stanford Univer­sity, Columbia University, Brandeis University, and the University ofCal­ifornia. 
Calisher's presentation centered on a dramatic reading of "Gargantuan," a short story examin­ing the tender relationship between a hospitalized woman and her daughter, who is caught between her likeness to her mother, and her need to find her own identity. 
Through a careful examination of their relationship, Calisher reveals a certain sensitivity to the complex emotions of daily life, a quality which critics have noticed a fre­quent characteristic ofher work. 
"There comes a time when the beast in all of us finally reveals its true form, and we can then realize what has been haunting us," she read. 
In addition to her articles, essays, and reviews which have appeared in such publications as The New York Times Book Review and The Ameri­can Scholar. Calisher's principle works include In Absence ofAngels, False Entry, and Herself, and autobiographical work. 
She has also written The Col­lected Works of Hortense Calisher and On Keeping Women. 
Her latest collection of short stories, Saratoga, Hot, will be publilshed in the spring. 
Duggan 
continuedfrom page 1 
mittee ofthe Women's College Coal­ition. 
Locally, Duggan is a member of the board of directors of the Valley American Bank, and the South Bend Symphony Association. 
He has published numerous arti­cles on higher education, and among other honors, received a doctor of law degree from Notre Dame in 1983. 
Changes 
continued/rem page 1 
to the director of student housing, "As secretary, Evelyn really imple­mented all the policy; now the major difference is that she also articulates it." 
As director of student activities, Neal will have the same responsibili­ties as she formerly did, but will have a more permanent position, accor­ding to Tyson. 
"It was clear to me, given the posi­tion she had already held, that we had a person, who happened to be a woman, who was most qualified. Again, it wasn't because she was a woman-her name could have been 
Jim Neal for all it mattered." Neal was not available for com­ment on her new position. 
"There is certainly no blocking of women in administrative positions," Tyson added, "and my hope is that we'll see more women in the future." 

TYPIN.G 
Term Papers Resumes Letters Manuscripts Word Processing 
CaD Chris at: 234-8997 


The Observer Monday, February 25, 1985 -page 4 

Soviet President Chernenko makes first public appearance in 2 months 
ANodattd Press 

MOSCOW -Soviet President Konstantin Chernenko, looking frail, broke a two-month absence yester­day with a television appearance in which he was shown casting his vote for deputies to the Parliament of the Russian Republic. 
The 73-year-old Soviet leader, who missed a key election speech only two days earlier because of ill· ness, murmured only a few words during the less than two minutes of film shown on a news brief. Chernenko's surprise appearance 
? was strictly managed and limited to a handful ofSoviet photographers. It contrasted sharply with the election day coverage of Mikhail Gorbachev, who, in the eyes of many Western obsevers, has emerged as the ruling Politburo's number two man, along with other Politbiro members. 
Chernenko and the other I 0 members were all nominees for par· liamentary seats, among the deputies being elected to parlia­ments in the 1 5 republics of the So­vie~ Union. 
During his 59-day absence from public, rumors had been intensify­ing that Chernenko was seriously ill. 
There was no film of him marking his ballot and he did not take out his customary glasses to look at it. The next sequence was of Chernenko standing over the ballot box and depositing his vote. He was not shown getting up from his chair. 

A western diplomat reached for comment on Chernenko's reap­pearance, said: "It must be a very carefully stage-managed perfor­mance that they figured they could manage without too much strain on him." 
Chemenko reportedly suffers from emphysema, and his condition had been said to be worsening. 
(' Israelis raid 7 villages in Lebanon 
r 
., 


BEIRUT, Lebanon Israeli armored units raided seven more villages Saturday in occupied south­ern Lebanon, and Israeli and Lebanese reports said at least 1 0 people were slain. 
It was the fourth day of Israeli strikes in retaliation for guerrilla raids on Israeli forces. 
In Tel Aviv, Israeli military sources reported that nine suspected guerrillas were killed and two were wounded in two villages. 
Sources with the United Nations command in southern Lebanon said the body of a man who had been shot in the back was found in an­other village, Toura, that was not mentioned in the Israeli account. 
Lebanese in the area said the Is· raeli launched their raids after guer­rillas attacked six ls(aeli positions overnight. 
The Israeli military sources, who 
spoke with the condition they not 
be identified, said the nine people 
they reported slain were believed to 
have carried out or were planning 
attacks on Israeli units. 
Lebanese sources reported Israeli 

raids on seven villages east ofTyre in 
an area policed by the U.N. 
peacekeeping force and across the 
litani River, just north of the U.N. 
zone. 
The Israeli sources reported only 

two guerrilla attacks, and said one .was on a position of the Israeli­backed "South Lebanon Army" militia. They declined to say if there 
were any casualties. 
According to the Lebanese, all of 

the guerrilla attacks were on posi­
tions near the Israeli army's new 
front line along the Litani River. Is­
raeli troops pulled back to the Utani 
from the previous line along the 
Awali River, some 1; miles farther 
north, on Feb. 16 in the first stage of 
a three-phase withdrawal from south Lebanon. Israel has not given any timetable or details about the 
next two withdrawal steps. 
Since the initial pullback, Israeli soldiers have been attacked more than two dozen times. 
In the retaliatory raids, the occu­pation troops have been entering villages, rounding up all men for questioning and using bulldozers to level houses where they maintain weapons were found. 
In addition to the new raids, the Israelis continued their blockade of Arab Salim, a mountain village above Tyre, for a fourth day. Soldiers said they were cutting off access to the village because they found weapons there. 

Saint Mary's College Literary Magazine is now accepting: 
Stories • Poems • Photos -Pictures • Artwork 
Submit to: 
l!lilliL::~ 
c/o Westler 310 Madeleva Hall
.• ... .. 

GO FOR THE GOLD 
You've just about completed one big challenge -your degree. Ready for the next? Go for the gold. The gold bars of a Second Lieutenant in the Army. 
It's no picnic. O.C.S. (Officer Candidate School) is a 14-week challenge that will make you dig deep inside yourself for men­tal and physical toughness. When you come out, you'll be trim, fit, a commissioned officer in the Army, and ready to exercise the leadership skills civilian companies put such a premium on. 
Go for the gold. It could help you when you're ready to reach for the brass ring. 
ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 
CALL: SGT Brennan 234-4187 
) 


-· 
The Student Activities Board 
(the leader in Entertainment) 
Presents 
''Cheap Thrills University•• Featuring Classes in: 
I.Aerollies 
z. Photograph~ 
3. 
Hula 

4. 
Auto Meehanies 


s. Computers 
6. Bartending 7.1nvestments 
8. 
Self Assertion 

9. 
Jolllnterview Skills 


10. 
Career Planning 

11. 
Conditioning 


REGISTRATION IS TONIGHT! 7 • 9 p.m., LaFortune Ballroom 
~i~~~_{)__i_Il__t_________________M_on-da-y,_&_bru-~--25-,19_8_5--p~-e-5 
The HPC can be just as 'wimpy' as the senate 
If you are like me, you don't quite know what to make of this Browne-Cahill/Student Senate flap. On the one hand it seems the Browne-Cahill ticket did not abide by the election rules, and that the Student Senate, by re-instating their candidacy, displayed a crass and reprehensible disregard for fairness. 
On the other hand, there seems to be some basis for the argument that student elections have always been shabbily run affairs, and that the Browne-Cahill ticket did not do anything that has not been common practice for quite some time. 
Of course, in the midst of all this, we have the Hall Presidents' Council, a body which not 
Vernon Marchal 
afterwords 
only has been trying to discredit the Student 
' Senate, but also has been posturing itselfas the logical alternative to the senate. Indeed, the HPC has charged the Student Senate with not being representative of "student sentiment" in its handling of the Browne-Cahill affair. HPC Chairman Chris Tayback went so far as to call the Student Sen­ate "incredibly wimpy." But is the Student Senate really "wimpy?" And, if it is, how would placing all political power in the hands of the HPC protect the student body from further "wimpiness?" No one can deny that, in a certain sense, the Student Senate is congenitally "wimpy." But, because Notre Dame is a place where (for good or bad) the administration is the ul­timate authority on campus, this can hardly be seen as the fault ofthe Student Senate. The situation that student government finds itself in is analogous to that familial legislative body you belonged to when you were a kid. Ofcourse, ifyou had any brothers or sisters, you know what I'm talking about. Whether it was to decide on where to go to dinner or whether to harass the baby-sitter, you and your siblings would sit down and take a vote. And, on a certain limited range of is­sues, this legislative body was quite effective. But on the more substantive issues, such as when to go to bed or what allowance was fair, all your decisions seemed to be overruled by your parents. You were, no doubt, appalled at your parents' flagrant disregard for the demo­cratic process. But, you soon realized that ap­palled or not, what your parents decided was the ways things were going to be. And so it is with the administration and student govern-
P.O.Box Q 
Notre Dame name is no longer limited to sports 
DearEditor: 
What a reliefto know NBC's exploitation of the Notre Dame name is no longer limited to athletic contests. Appropriately enough, the network is planning to boost its ratings with the biggest of Notre Dame shows, a Sacred Heart "smells and bells" liturgy. 
Father Dan jenky has taken it upon himself to make sure the audience is a "representative congregation." Not representative of the Sa­cred Heart community, mind you, but of the entire Notre Dame community -including students and administrators who usually stay away from Sacred Heart on Sundays. In fact, ment at Notre Dame. 
I'm pretty sure, however, that this is not the kind of "wimpiness" that Tayback and the HPC are so upset about. They are concerned that the Student Senate has turned into and "old boys" club where the members are will­ing to do anything to cover for each other ­including changing their own rules. In con­trast, the HPC claims that it is incapable of such behavior. In spite of these claims, however, I'm inclined to be a little suspicious of the HPC for two reasons. 
The first is that in handling the Browne­Cahill affair, the Student Senate did not change the rules that were in place before the elec­tion. OBUD did its job in making sure that the election rules were observed, but once Browne and Cahill were caught, they were acting within the rules when they appealed to the senate, and the senate was acting within the rules when it voted to re-instate the Browne-Cahill candidacy. 
Similarly, the senate was not obligated un­der the rules to exclude any of its members from this vote, to make this vote public, or to hold this vote when Tayback was in town. All these rules were in place before the election. All those who have resigned, including the members of OBUD and Tayback, either were aware or should have been aware of these rules. 
If Tayback or OBUD had some problem with them, the time to act was before the elec­tion. 
The second reason I am suspicious of the HPC is that they seem to be claiming what happened to the Student Senate couldn't hap­pen to them. What is the warrant for such a claim? The members ofboth organizations are elected into office by the student body. Given the apathetic attitude of the the student body toward student government in general, it is no less likely that a bum will be elected to the Student Senate than the HPC. Not only this, but since the members of the Student Senate are elected by the student body, the HPC has no more right to question its legitimacy than the senate has ofquestioning theirs. 
In conclusion, it is dear that, in spite of what Tayback and the HPC have said, the Stu­dent Senate was not "wimpy" in its handling of the Browne-Cahill affair -unless one considers following the rules"wimpy." Also, it is clear that there is no reason to replace the Student Senate with the HPC. In my view, both Tayback and the HPC should relax and let the senate work out its own problems. 
Vernon Marchal is a senior in the Program ofLiberal Studies and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
liturgies to bolster the event. What's next? A 4:30 p.m. starting time and lights from MUSCO? 
Atrue cross-section ofthe University would have to include even our fallen brothers and sisters who, in the spirit of Vatican II ecumenism, have been kicked off campus for their crusading. 
It might even include some ofus who don't long for the triumphant church ofthe 30's and 40's asjenky seems to. 
I hope most students will treat this Palm Sunday like any other and be sound asleep when the bells ring at Sacred Heart. That is, if Notre J:?ame really wants to "serve the Ameri­can church," and not spread propaganda. 
Keith Picher 
1984 Notre Dame graduate 
Chicago, Ill. 

=---~~The ObserYer-­
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the rndependent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either rnstitution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsrgned editorials represent the oprnion of a majorrty of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the communrty, and the free expressron of varying oprnrons on campus, through letters. is encouraged. 
Duggan's dedication deserves praise 
After ten years ofdedicated service to Saint Mary's College, Dr. jolm M. 
Duggan is leaving Saint Mary's. He will be missed. 
His ten years have been active ones. His successes and accomplishments are many. Most recent is the fundraising campaing, EXCEL: The Fund for Saint Mary's College, with a goal of $25 million dollars. The "mission" ofthe campaign is "to provide the best Catholic, liberal arts education for wo­men." It is his sense ofmission that has guided the College forth through changes from 1975 into the '80s and helped it to grow. Duggan was the guiding force for the renovation ofthe Alumnae Centennial library into the Haggar College Center. Its presence has added a new dimension to College life by providing a centrally located meeting and social space in an aesthetic environment. 
In addition, the architectural award-winning Cushwa-l.eighton Library was built under his direction. His latest achievement is the renovation and addition to the Science building. The College has been expanding, but Duggan has managed the delicate taskofmaintaining the small-school spirit which makes Saint Mary's unique. Duggan has said the students are the most important part ofSaint Mary's and has always remained true to his words. 
When planned housing integration changes caused a student uproar last spring, Duggan responded immediately. The plans were modified hours before room selections took place. 
An effective, competent and caring leader is a rarity. To say he follows in the traditon ofone of the greater presidents and matriarch of the College, Sister Madeleva, is our way to pay tribute to President Duggan. Thank you for ten years ofdevotion to Saint Mary's. 
-The Observer 

Your point of view counts 
Viewpoint would like to bearfrom you. Ifyou would like to respond to something you've read in The Observer, why not write a letter to the editor. Letters should be well-written, typed, no more than 250 words in length and must bear the signature ofthe author. Letters which are not signed by the author will not be pub­lished. 
But letters are notthe only way to voice your opinion in The Observer, Viewpoint also accepts guest columns. Guest columns should be well-written, typed, no more than 500 words in length and 
Is the classroom an essential service? 
DearEditor: 
I would like to express yet another opinion concerning the "Should-there-be-snow­days?" controversy. 
It seems to me that a "snow emergency" means more than moving your car's resting place on city streets. For order to return to a city, people living in that city must cooperate with the clean-up plan. 
Both SMC and ND displayed what I con­sider an arrogance by refusing to close on at least one of the two snow days. By remaining operational, they clearly implied to the City of South Bend that they consider themselves 
Editorial Board 
Edttor·in·Chief. . . . . . . . Bob Vonderherde Managmg Edttor . . . .... Mark Worscheh News Editor . . ... Sarah Hamilton News Editor . . . . ..... Dan McCullough Satnt Mary's Editor . _Anne Monastyrski Sports Edttor.... . Mrchael Sullivan Vtewpoint Edttor . . . . Dave Grote Features Edttor. . .... Mary Healy Photo Edttor. . . . . . . . . . . Pete Laches 
must bear the signature of the author. A guest column, unlike letter to the editor, should notbe a direct response to another editorial. 
Both guest columns and letters to the editor can be mailed to The Observer, P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556, or delivered to either our Notre Dame office in LaFortune Student Center or our Saint Mary's office in Haggar College Center. Please includeyour telephone number. 
The Observer reseroes the right to edit a/1 material submitted to the Viewpoint departmentfor publication. 
privileged populations. Of all the companies. tax-dollar fed government agencies, and small businesses in this community, Saint Mary's and Notre Dame declared themselves most worthy of utilizing the barely-plowed road­ways. 
Perhaps I have a distorted view of the meaning of "essential services." When I hear on the radio that "only essential services" should be functional during a crisis, I think of hospital workers, food transporters and utility companies. 
Is classroom education an essential service? 
Karen M. Wian Saint Mary's Faculty Nursing Department 
Department Managers 
Business Manager.. . ...... Dave Taiclet Controller .............. Dave Stephenitch Advertising Manager ....... Anne Culligan Circulation Manager ......... Jeff O'Neill Systems Manager . ....... Mark B. Johnson Production Manager. . _...... Chris Bowler Project Manager . . . . . . . . .. Amy Stephan 
Founded November 3, 1966 
, .. 
, ' 
"1

, 
~ 


---~----­
r 
., 
I 7 
Accent
r 
'( 
1 
7 
f Writers' brilliance highlights festival 
( 
~: 
( 
nee more, the sophomore class has 
7 
Obuilt on a distinguished tradition with
'( 
enthusiasm and flair. Beginning with a
7 
reading yesterday by Hortense Calisher and
(' 
continuing to March 2, an assembly ofsome
(
,, 
ofAmerica's most prestigious literary figures (' will grace this year's Sophomore literary ? Festival. A hard-working committee, headed '' by Gregory Miller, has been planning for
( 
t' months an event sure to be long remem­., ( bered. Following are profiles ofthe authors r 
"T7 to speak in the coming week. 
t: 
> 
z 
( 
~ ' 
' 
/ 

Joanna Glass 

Canada native Joanna McClelland Glass often draws on her childhood in Sas­katchewan to create evocative drama that has been published in Canada, Great Britain, and the United States. Her twin one-act plays "Canadian Gothic" and "American Modern" premiered at the Manhattan Theatre Club in 
( 1972, and have since been performed in 
( most major American cities; they were also
I 
included in "The Best Short Plays, 1978." 
I 
Glass received a National Endownment Grant
I 
for the completion ofthe full-length play, "To
I 
Grandmother's House We Go," which
I I opened on Broadway in 1980, starring Eva LeGallienne and Kim Hunter. In addition, Glass's novel, "Reflections on a Mountain Summer," was published in 1975 and serialized into a ten-part broadcast for England's BBC Radio. Glass is currently -working on a screenplay for a movie based on her new novel, "Woman Wanted," to be produced by United Artists. 
,. 
,. 
r 
, 

Michael Anania 
Born in Omaha, Nebraska, Michael Anania received his Ph.D. from State University in Buffalo, New York. Currently, Anania is an Assistant Professor ofEnglish at the Univer­sity of Illinois, Chicago. Possessing a wide range ofliterary talent, Anania has published poetry, fiction, and criticism. He has edited for Pushcart Press, Tri-Quarterly, and Swal­low Press, the publisher through which he produced "New Anthology I and II." He is a recipient of the Swallow Press New Poetry Series Award for 1970. Anania's latest work, "The Red Menance," is a novel about Ameri­can culture and values during the McCarthy era, in the wake ofthe first atomic blasts in Nagasaki and Hiroshima. It touches upon the American spirit and reveals a nation ofgreat strength and dark fears. Upon reading this 
new work, Studs Terkel said, "Michael Anania, an excellent poet, is now a multi­threat. This excellent novel, as timely as the razor's edge on which we live, is a natural." 

JonSilkin 
Jon Silkin, poet, critic and the editor and publisher ofthe poetry quarterly "Stand," has established himself as one ofEngland's most distinguished living poets. Born in London in 1930, he committed himselfto poetry at an early age. His poetry reflects his wide-ranging experiences. Silkin's first publication, "The Peaceable Kingdom," was published in 1954; it has been described as "the finest first volume ofpoetry written by a living English poet." Since then, he has continually developed and reformulated his poetry. Silkin expresses the relationships between life's positive and negative forces. He calls us to show care and concern, and often laments a loss ofvalue. Silkin writes, "The notion is that order more or less has existed since God created the universe. Well, it's clearly non­sense... There clearly is a great deal of conflict, stress, and chaos, and... the good poet has to create a sense out ofwhich the clarity is emerging. How on earth does one create that? Recreate it and give it value, which is another problem." Silkin's poetry includes The "Re-ordering ofthe Stones," "Nature with Man," "Amana Grass," "The Little Time-Keeper," and "Psalms with their Spoils." 

Mary Gordon 
Not many authors achieve both critical and popular success with their first major work, 

yet Mary Gordon accomplished just such a feat with her first novel, "Final Payments." In the novel, Gordon deals with one woman's anempt to find a new life for herself after her father's death. She skillfully describes how this woman's search is hampered by guilt, which leads to a self-destructive habit of sacrifice. She adeptly pinpoints her charac­ter's emotions and ideas while writing about morally complex situations. "Final Payments" was greeted with much enthusiasm, as it announced the appearance ofan important writer who could sensitively explore the topics ofreligion and feminism. Born in 1949 in Far Rockaway, New York, Gordon was raised in a strong Catholic setting, which still greatly influences her writing. She graduated from Barnard College ofColumbia University and recieved her M.A. in the writing program at Syracuse University. Since the publication of "Final Payments" in 1978, Gordon has continued to build her literary reputation by writing short stories and critical essays and publishing a second novel, "The Company of Woman," in 1981. Her eagerly-awaited third novel is due out this spring. 
John Irving 
NovelistJohn Irving has been acclaimed as one ofthe few writers who is able to bridge the gap between popular and serious Ameri­can fiction. Irving's style is humorous and always entertaining; nevertheless, a deeper meaning often emerges through the humor. Irving uses this humor to satirize life and its hyprocrisy and to call attention to the serious issues which confront his characters. Irving's works are characterized by autobiographical detail and a unique mix of the bizarre with the ordinary. His first novel, "Setting Free the Bears," received considerable critical atten­tion. The novel, which describes the elabo­rate scheme oftwo young Austrians to free the animals in Vienna's Heitzinger Zoo as a protest against a return offascism, touches on themes offreedom, responsibilicy, rebel­lion, and restraint. Irving was born in Exeter, New Hampshire, in 1942. After graduating from Exeter Academy, he continued his education at the University ofIowa and took his M.F.A. degree in 1967. Irving now resides in New York City and eastern Long Island. His sixth novel, "The Cider House Rules," will be published inJune. 
George W. Hunt, S.J., former chairman of the Religious Studies Department at Le Moyne College and former literary editor of "America" magazine, is now editor-in-chiefat "America." In addition to numerous articles in academic quarterlies and magazines, Hunt has written major critical analyses of the works ofjohn Updike and John Cheever: "John Updike and the Three Great Secret Things: Sex, Religion and Art," and "John Cheever: 'The Hobgoblin Company ofLove." Updike writes of Hunt, "Ofall the explicators ofmy work whom I have read, Hunt seems to be the most scrupulous and ingenious in tracing out the religious/philosophical veins within the corpus... In the course of looking through, over the years, his evolving com­mentary, I have been more than once startled, many times enlightened, and con­stantly grateful." Hunt's study of Cheever was also well-received. His work greatly en­hances the reader's appreciation of Cheever, who, according to Hunt, has been "the most neglected ofour major writers -neglected, that is, as the subject ofserious literary scholarship." 

Howard Nemerov 
Howard Nemerov was born in New York City and is a graduate of Harvard University. Nemerov currently is the Mallinckrodt Distinguished Professor of English at Wash­ington University in St. Louis. Nemerov has published extensive works ofverse, fiction, and non-fiction. He is best known to his readers through his poetry. His works vary stylistically, but share simplicity, clarity, and a responsiveness to the times. He often displays a blunt sense of humor that reveals sharp insight into the ordinary. Nemerov is able to vary his tone ofvoice and subject matter to produce many more modes of writing than are usually available to writers, even in a long career. Nemerov was elected to the American Academy ofArts and Letters in 1976, and in 1978 received both the National Book Award and the Pulitzer Prize for ''The Collected Poems of Howard Nemerov." He was also the Consultant in Poetry to the Library ofCongress in 1963, and among many other awards and fellow­ships, he holds honorary degrees from ten universities. Some ofhis other works include "Guide to the Ruins," "Mirrors and Win­dows," "Stories, Fables and other Diver­sions," and most recently, "Inside the Onion." 


Feb.25  Jon Silk HortenseCa Jon Sili  
Feb.26  MichaelA  
Feb.27  Michael Anania, Ho1 George I Johnin  
Feb.28  John lrvi1 HowardNe  
March 1  JoannaGI• Joanna (i  
March 2  MaryGord Production of"Canadia1 MaryGor  

u.aezc a

a as tuC j kct .a &¥.Z&&£ &LSSWS &2 UIJ¥ & DEWLIEU-StU&!..& 
Monday, February 25, 1985 -page 6 -7 

Pizzazz abounds at talent gala 


Bill Rossiter ofKeenan Hall performs a guitar solo during the show. 
S.L.F. 
schedule ofevents 
All readings are in the Library Auditorium 
All workshops are in the Library Lounge 
"Canadian Gothic" will be in the Lafortune Ballroom 
Library 
.in workshop  12:15 p.m.  
•lisher workshop  1:30p.m.  
kin reading  8p.m.  
.nania reading  8p.m.  
ward Nemerov workshop  12:15 p.m.  
Hunt lecture  7p.m.  
ring reading  8 p.m.  
ngworkshop  12:15p.m.  
1merov reading  8p.m.  
ass workshop  12:15 p.m.  
tlass reading  8p.m.  
lon workshop  12:15 p.m.  
n Gothic:," by Joanna Glass  3p.m.  
·don reading  8p.m.  


The cinema, rude boys, and Bobby Knight 

Marc Ramirez 
Strange days indeed 
Dearly beloved, we are gathered here today to watch this thing 
called a movie. 
A fairly interesting concept, a movie, and it can go on forever (in 
particular ifyou happen to be taking in a viewing of"Heaven's 
Gate" or "Star Trek III: The Search for Spock"), and that's a mighty 
long time, but Sir Obnoxious is here to tell you: 
There's something else. 
Being obnoxious. 
Aworld of never-ending tactlessness where, o annoying ones, 
you can always cause a healthy amount ofgrief, day or night. 
So when you call up your friends in Beverly Hills (which, 
incidentally, happens to be where the major portion ofSir 
Obnoxious' legion ofacquaintances make their home), instead of 
burdening them with a long, long, boring synopsis ofthe movie 
you saw last night, tell them about all the commotion you caused 
with a couple ofcareless, caustic remarks. 
Because in a crowded movie theater, the opportunities for 
obnoxiousness are endless. In fact, when you ponder it awhile, the 
opportunities for endlessness are obnoxious, too. At least when Sir 
Obnoxious ponders it. 
At this juncture Sir Obnoxious will pause for a guitar solo, 
followed by the push-push-pull-pull rhythm of a synthesizer. 
Ahem. And n~w. in the interests ofpromoting rudeness, let us 
proceed with the subject at hand. Sir Obnoxious happened to 
wander into a certain showing ofa certain movie on a certain 
campus this weekend, although he declines to mention which 
particular one in the interests ofprotecting the identities ofhis 
cohorts, whether they are aware of it or not, and they're probably 
not. 
And Sir Obnoxious was pleased with what he witnessed. 
Such obnoxious behavior rarely has been so rampant in so 
limited a space. It was everywhere. Those attending the film got a 
free, first-class seminar from some ofthe best, as far as Sir 
Obnoxious is concerned. Sir Obnoxious cannot find the correct 
terminology with which to give a truly fair account ofthe extent to 
which this event was out ofcontrol. 
The movie was heavy-laden with music, and Sir Obnoxious could 
not help but grin as many members ofthe audience sang along, 
because Sir Obnoxious has done that sort ofthing before and he 
knows how much it annoys those who have not seen the movie. 
And still the obnoxiousness continued, as not only did they sing 
along with the music, but also spoke along with the dialogue. Sir 
Obnoxious was practically jumping out ofhis seat, and ifhe had 
been level-headed enough at the time to realize how rude it would 
have been, he would have. 
Such rudeness stirred Sir Obnoxious' heart to no end. He could 
just imagine the obnoxious thoughts flashing through these 
people's minds: Oh, I love this movie so much! I love this music! 
Oh, it just makes me want to sing! Oh, I love it! Oh, I guess I'm 
really annoying that guy and his date in front ofme but I don't care! 
Oh, I love this movie! I bet that everyone will be so impressed that 
I know all the lyrics to all the songs and all the words to the movie ­
I know I'm impressed! Oh, I love it! Oh! 
So obnoxious. 
It is not often that Sir Obnoxious learns something, because he 
knows almost everything, but on this night he picked up more than 
a few pointers. Besides the tomfoolery mentioned already, things 
were thrown at the screen as well. Beer cans were left strewn 
about the floor. Et obnoxious cetera. These methods simply must 
be used again. Sir Obnoxious commends these few boors who had 
the proverbial guts to be self-centered instead ofworrying abom 
that wimpy care-for-others, be-considerate scene. 
live and let die, Sir Obnoxious always says. 
YourMajesty Sir Obnoxious: 
Chivalry is dead. Nuke whales. The Chicago Cubs are geeks. I read your column all the time, and it appears that ever since your overbearing arrival onto the scene, there has been a rash of rudeness which has spread across the nation as your fame increases. So popular has the new fad become that I propose the following: a weekly award honoring those who have shown the greatest flair for the art ofobnoxiousness. What do you think, huh? Kill Mr. Rogers. Mary Lou Retton has bad breath. 
A Hater ofEverything 

OAnnoying One: 
Although you are to be commended for your wonderful idea, it is by no means an original one, for Sir Obnoxious secretly has been keeping a weekly tally ofsome quite obnoxious behavior. The Medal ofTactlessness has gone in the past to such infamous characters a., Steve Perry, Woody Hayes, Billy Martin, Mrs. George Bush and Mary Decker Tabb Fawcett Majors Slaney or whatever her name is now. This week's medal is undubiously awarded to none other than Indiana basketball coach Bobby "You can call me Bob" Knight, who, in a fit ofrage, screamed a few obscenities and hurled a chair across the court as the free throw entitled the opposing team due to Knight's technical foul was being shot. Inexcusable, they said, but hey, it was a probably an extremely bad call. Congratulations on a job well done, Bob. 
Sir Obnoxious 


, ,.' ~ 
' 
Sports Briefs 
The Notre Dame Rowing Club has an­nounced that all members going to Austin must pay their S50 deposit by tomorrow. Patty Bergin will collect the money-cash or check· at 153 Farley Hall. For more information, call Paul Sherman at 283-4115. -the Observer 
A snow softball tournarnentis being held by 
the ND Millions Against MS Committee next weekend. The entry fee for teams of five men and five women is $10, which goes to MS. Prizes will be awarded to the winning team. Anyone who is inter­ested may sign up tomorrow from 3:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. in the LaFortune lobby. For more information, call Steve at 283-1045 or Jeff at 283-1049.-The Observer 
The ND men's tennis teatn opened its 1985 
season yesi.erday with a 5-4 upset of Iowa at the ACC. The Irish will be in action again on Friday when they travel to Marquette.. The Observer 
Bill McCulloughand Haider Razawon the 
Insilco squash tournament last weekend at Notre Dame. They will compete in a regional tournament in Chicago in April for an oppor­tunity to play in the national tournament in Washington, D.C.-The Observer 
The Notre Dallle hockey banquetwm be held on Tuesday, March 5 in the Monogram Room at the ACC. Cock­tails will be Served at 6 p.m. and dinner is at 7 p.m. Tickets are S10 for Blueline Club members and $11 for the general public. Tickets are available at the hockeyoffice in the ACC ( 2 39-5 2 27). -The Observer 
Stepan Center's basketball courts will remain open on Friday nights until 11:30, Paul Matwiy, assistant director ofstudent activities, announced. The extended schedule is on a trial basis. Ifstudents do not utilize the courts on Friday nights, then Stepan will return to its previous closing time of 1 0 p.m. -The Observer 
Woolen 
continued/rom page 12 
season, and 5-6 in the conference. 
It appeared for a while, however, that the Lady Blue Demons had the greater thirst for victory, as they used agressive defense and tena­cious rebounding in the second half w stay close to the Irish. and eventu­ally tie the score at 43 with 10:12left on the clock. 
"Playing DePaul is always diffi­cult," said Irish head coach Mary DiStanislao. "They are hungry players who always play hard. " 
DePaul's 5-10 forward Tracy Manuel scored 19 points and pulled down 13 rebounds, most of them in the second stanza, to anchor a strong inside game that kept the score close. Teammate Sally Anderson, a '5­5 sophomore guard, also contrib­uted 19 points to the cause, hitting several key outside shots in the first halfof action. 
In the first half, the Irish jumped 
out to a 12-3 lead six minutes into 
the game on a Mary Gavin jump shot 
over the DePaul zone. The Irish, 
however, quickly got into foul trou­
ble, and the Lady Blue Demons were 
able to get back in the contest as 
they hit 13 of 18 shots from the foul 
line, and benefited from the absence 
of Sandy Botham, Notre Dame's 6-2 
center, who was forced to spend all 
but five minutes of the half on the 
bench with two personal fouls. 
Nevertheless, the Irish were able to 
take a slim 32-29 lead to the locker­
room. 

Also troublesome for the Irish in the first twenty minutes of action was the varying, attacking defenses employed by fi~t-year DePaul coach Jim Izard. 
"In the first half they changed up their defenses a little bit," said DiS­tanislao. "We were a bit overtaken by their aggressiveness, but we 
Monday, February 25, 1985 -page 8 

made some changes at halftime, and they made a difference." 
In the middle of it all shone two Notre Dame stars: Lynn Ebben and Mary Beth Schueth. Ebben took ad­vantage ofa seven-inch height differ­ence over DePaul's Anderson to score 9 points in the first half, while the 6-0 Schueth registered 8 points and 9 rebounds to stall DePaul's comeback. 
Notre Dame's Trena Keys, quiet in the first half ofplay, came alive as the second half began, hitting two free throws, a layup, and a 1 5-footer from the baseline to raise the Irish lead to 43-37 with 11:13 left to play. 
After a basket by DePaul's Ander­son made it 43-39, another Blue Demon guard, 5-0 freshman Andrea Morgan stole the ball from Notre Dame's Gavin and converted the layup, making it 43-41. She followed that effort with an offensive rebound, and another lay up to tie the score for the first time since the game's early moments. 
Meanwhile, · DiStanislao's often­employed bench was quiet, as only senior guard Laura Dougherty saw action. This was especially surpris­ing in that the five Irish players gave up 13 turnovers in the half which helped give DePaul its chances. 
"We didn't have to go to the bench," explained DiStanislao. "We had good matchups the way they were." 
The aggressive Blue Demons committed 1 1 turnovers of their own in the half, and in the process of rallying, found themselves in early foul trouble. The Irish were able to capitalize, hitting 14-of-16 from the charity stripe. 
The effective foul shooting, and the solid play of Keys ( 20 points, 1 0 rebounds), Schueth ( 1 5 points, 12 rebounds), and Ebben ( 1 7 points, 6 rebounds) down the stretch was too much for DePaul to overcome, as the Irish widened their lead to nine points six minutes after DePaul es­tablished the tie. 
"It was a great win. It was revenge for the loss they handed us," said Eb­ben, the star of the game in the crowd's eye because of her heroics at the free-throw line at the end. "They were keying on Trena and. at times, no one came out on me, so I shot it. 
"As for the 'big gulp'..., I was glad to help out." 
Box Score 

Notre Dame women 68, DePaul women 57 Notre Dame women (68) DePaul women (57) M FG·A FT·A R F P M FG·A FT·A R F P Ebben 37 6-12 5-6 6 3 17 O'Brien 37 2-3 2-2 6 3 6 Schueth 40 6-12 3·5 12 2 15 Manuel 37 7·14 5-6 13 5 19 Botham 25 3-6 0-0 5 3 6 Watts 16 1-7 0-0 2 2 2 Gavin 35 2-3 2-2 3 4 6 Anderson 40 5-15 9-10 0 3 19 Keys 37 7-16 6-8 10 2 20 Morgan 32 3-6 3-5 5 4 9 Brommeland 6 0-2 0-0 0 2 0 Mitchell 8 1-2 0-0 1 o 2 Dougherty 4 0-0 0-0 0 1 0 Streit 6 0-4 0-0 0 1 0 Barron 3 1-2 0-0 1 0 2 Hogan 20 0-4 0-1 2 2 0 Kaiser 10 1-1 0-0 1 3 2 Fitzpatrick 4 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 Basford 3 0-1 0-0 0 0 0 200 19-55 19-24 29 20 57 200 26-55 16-21 38 20 68 FG Pet. -.345. FT Pet. -.792. Team FG Pet. -.473. FT Pet. -.762. Team rebounds -2. Turnovers -17. Assists -8 rebounds -3. Turnovers -21. Assists -12 (OBrien 3). Technicals-none. (Gavin 6). Technicals ·none. Halftime-Notre Dame 32, DePaul 29. Offi­cials-Ron Applegate. Tom Slade. A -1 , 143. 
The Ohsen•er ~otr~ Damt: oftkt.·. lm:atnl on tht: third floor of Lafortune Student <:t>nter, at.Tepts dassitkd adn-rtbing from <J a.m. until -i p.m...\londay through friday. 1be OhSI!Tl't'r Saint \lan··s offict:. located on the third tfoor of Haggar Colkgt· Ct:ntt:r. acu:pts dassitkds from 12:~0 p.m. until~ p.m.• :\lon· day though Friday. Deadline li>r nt·xt·day dassitkds is 5 p.m. All classi!kds must he prepaid. t.'ither in pt.·rson or hy mail. C:harge is I 0 <.Tnts per fin: chara<.··
Classifieds 
ters erda ·. 
HELP!!!! I lost a large rinestone old­Be cheerfulllllhile you are alive fashioned clip SOI'l'I8Where at the JPW HAPPY FEBRUARY BIAntDAYSI
NOTICES cocktail dance on Friday; much.much .____w_A_NT_E_D____JI\L--_P_ER_SO_NA_L_S___J Yes, there wiH be a Wash DC Spring 
sentimental value!!!! 11 found, 01 know o1 Break bus! Sign-ups will be March 4th­JEFF BURCHAM its whereabouts cal Uncia at 2n~56. more info later JEFFBLUMB 
TYPING·cw:CHRiS ZW:.Sii7.. a·es-r···riMe:Ses:r·· ·vALuE~ ...WHeRe: GEOFF ENTAESS
RioeR5..riiE.eoe6: f:Q;.'5Pnll!l·t:,r;;ak.io

DAYTONA BEACH!! WHEN: SPRING
TYPiNG'AvAIWMi. LOST· Cemere n.h Central Florida. Cal1284-5480. HAPPY 21at BIATiiDAY
RIDE TO NEWARK NEEDED. CAN BREAK '85. WHO: ALL ND/SMC STU­
FROM SECTION 1 B FISHER 

287-4082 On the cross country counse back by the LEAVE ANY TlME AFTER TliUASDAY DENTS. CALL 23&-5136 OR STOP BY 
f:~i··~i··t;;;iidi·~···~~···~··~

cemetary. 11 found please call284-5186. 
MORNNG, MARCH 14. WIU SHARE SENIOR CLASS OFFICE, 1.5 ooR..i=ANS'~-TH.EsE:.. i',.ERSONAi:s..AFie
Reward: 1 six pack. dorms, we already have Dillon' 
USUAL. CALL MIKE AT x1745. LAFORTUNE, MON-FRI, 6-9pm.
EiP.ERT1YPiNG'2n:a·534·mefi'5ii' BORING;GROW UP! ANNI!IKATHYPS -rc; ~oo:.ev; ·ii:iOk n;y·Riil?ii· L.a;iei,. iM~ It isn't the size o1 the Dog in the light, It's JUNGLE IS A JOKE!! 
exPERf··· TYPiNG··· IERViCE:....CALi 

jacket fr001 senior bar: Since my license the size ri the Figlt in the Dogs! 
MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 

was in the pocket you obviously know INho RIDE TO NEWARK NEEDED. CAN 
it belongs to. I'U pay to get it back, but i1 LEAVE ANY TlME AFTER TliUASDAY ·i:>Fiess··voofi.'Luci<:·G&me..5h~·~·u ~·~:::i:~:::-=:~~~ 
South Bend in May, i1 you'd be interested

you really need a jacket that badly. could MORNING, MARCH 14. WILL SHARE choole 2 Notre Dame Students lor an EX­
10 P8rt·tlme n1 11 ct~eq -mtc:t by 
in goin' let me know. D.J. x3118 ~~~~·~=~~=--~~ you at least mail my license back to me? 

USUAL. CALL MIKE AT x1745. PENSE PAID TRIP TO HOI..lYWOOD to
3880. Chic-eo pubhhlng compeny. H8ve
You hav.e my name and my campus ad­be contestants on their College Days auFii<E.~WOMAt.i:···oo···~··· ;;;;;.;;~
fun on '*"PUS while -n~,~
dress IS In the book (SMC).
P'ROF~·TYPiNc:i:·CAU: ·nNA ... h can be done! c.11 312· or show MARCH 22-24. Applications are Thurs. eve? I do-and thanx to you I made 
232-8749 wrtt. SARSAPARILLA, Ltd., 62 W. available in the STUDENT ACTIVITIES
l.osr~··P'AiR .. Of:...6Rowt.i··LEATHER s;;;:,g-y;;;;·f.i-;;;·:G;;i!A~·h"a~;&·H;p·y it in one piece (would've been better with­
Huron, Chlc-uo, IL60610. OFFICE, 1st Floor Lafortune. Entry
GLOVES IN ROOM 223 HAYE5-HEAlY out the last shot, tho). Luv, DOVE-WO.
~NO Birthday. Dawg Deadline is 5:00PM on WEDNESDAY,
WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON (2/20/85). MAN.
277-«)45 FEBRUARY 27. 
CALL BRIAN l 23~7276 AND LEAVE 
C8ii i:>~inM; isii P8Ck89e QO(J. i Odil)..iiie
MESSAGE. REWARD$$. NatiVEJ.NSW·e·~·Seek·treedOm·oc SENk)A··.:OFiMAL.. iii·;;n.Siiie 'iOd&y.ai
package god is 19. 
To the Anonymous Gir1! Hey, who are

Midwestern mentality. Need ride horne LaFortune and LeMans fr001 5 to 7 pm.
Matt, 

anytime. Cllll3884 to prevent extinction o1 HELPiii!"'j;;n···sea;clii;;g···i~........iMiie yoo? You caled me last Sat. with a sing­S56 includes cocktail hour. dinner. and
Yes. Nice cakes, mighty golden! 

piece ri mind. ing valentine and wanted to 'Seduce Me
~T~,:i.W.i~s~~tiar:'t!: 
dance.

nnestone okHash1oned clip that I lost at 
game. Gym 4, ACC, Tuesday, Feb 19. Toni{jlt.' C8l me back-the suspense is
-Debbie the JPW cocktail dance • it's got much
Much sentimental value, ahe was a devastating. Ron.
sentimental value! 11 you've~ it, call
birthday present. Please call Barb at ................ . SPANISH CLUB LUNCH 
Linda at 2n-6856
4238. WORSCH South Dining Haii-Rt,Rt Happy 22nd to someone who has been 11:30-1:00
LOST/FOUND I FooNo;··o:c:u·~·i·~·~~·m FOR SALE pan of (victim of ? ) more clasaical between B.P. and Farley idenbly pen and WE WANT YOU!!! moment3 than an~e I know. So ... how TOMORROW! claim, 401 Farley. Student Government needs people who STIFF were your clothes in your suitcase
F-ouN"D:'i.l8iOiC..kiiYI..onl.iUr(f:iclil8 ··•································· cii'EN>efi.MAX"eu:->C:Lii ·90:s·S24··Foo want to make a difference. Friday, hmmm? Hopefully you were able t<iii~.'K&iiiy,·~~:·&nd·i<iiihy
and blllck key chain on the lot between Found: The Writer's RhetOric and Hand­
to ri&e for lhe occatlion! 
10. 1150 

Wlllh and Satin on Sunday Feb 17 book in r0001 328; Comp/Math building Applications for STUDENT GOVERN­
Hfl'le a great one, oh great melonhead­Tequila

1985. To cllim call Beth at 2918. · ' Gal4069. MENT CABINET poeiti0f111. lor BiN Healy 
jaws-stuff-woo-woo! Kalhlua

and Duane Lawrence's Cabinet are now 
··U:iiST·~·~·w...... Shroom Tequila
HELP! GOT LEG IN CAST,CANT GO available in the 2nd floor LaFortune KalhluaON SKI TfiiP , MAR 1-3. HELP ME OUT offices.
On the cr0111 country course back by the
LOST: One very small ladies' gold Seiko THINK SO. PADRE!
BY TAKING MY PLACE. $125 w/rental
cemetary. II found please call 284-5186. MICK JAGGER;~-~--~~--Sh~:s··ih~
-tch. in South Dining Hall before THINK MEXICO! 
BUT NEGOTIABLE. EXTRA SPOTS Applications are due no later then
Reward: 1 six pack.
01ristrnalbreek. I know it was along long Boss now on sale at Rock Dulac, Notre Usa
AVAILABLE FOR FRIENDS. CALL O'B FRIDAY, MARCH 8 (the week prior to 
tune ago, and you're prOOibly used to Dame's record store. 1st floor LaFortune.
L.osr~ ·a ·sii:vER.8RAceL:ri Oii sundily AT 277-4617. Spring Break). ..idi~ ·&·vOk()·iiind itie;;i;;J&i······ ·..········· 
weerin(j it by now, but If you havea heart. 

2/17 in BP 01 N.Dining Hall or somewhere 
I'd ~ke 1t back, with no questions Mked, No Ja;ket Required, Phil Colllne's new
Come out and help us rebuild Student
between the two. 11 found please,
except maybe "How did you get that Httle Goverrvnent!!l solo album ison sale now at Rock du lac, Wish C&roline Dillon 
PLEASE cal1257. REWARD.
tiny -tch to fit your wrist?" (You -· I 1St floor LaFortune. Stop by and check 
. .... ·····-........ ---.. Thanks, I'd appreciate it. Yours in Notre settes, and blank tapes. 
have a very small wrist and it only 1i1a me). TICKETS out our discount prices on albums, cas­AFantab B-Day
LOST: In the corridor under the stands at Ale you in a rut? Ale you tired o1 going to
the ACC ice rink; a black 'CCM' hockey
o.ne. Kathy (3747). Happy Legality! 
thesame boring classes fNery_ day? Then
helmet (21 on back). Probably left there AneNii6N··· W6Me·t.i· .. o;:····t.ii::i:.9AAL
Min up 101 CHEAP THRILLS UNIVER­
after the Pangbom-Aiumni game (19 HELPII! 
SITY!! Get some culture by participating Pl •TNAM IS NOW 6 YRS. OLD AND EL­n;a;,~ i~"&g& ·e;;~~y'ii;;d'b(;;&ki'~i i~ 
DANGER: 6 loot black scarf lost at ACC Feb). Has the name 'Jay SuMivan' on it. Gall My parents have never seen an ND bas­in such classes as bartending. aerobics, LIGIBLE TO DATE.HE IS INTELLI· couch. We owe you one. 
~ares last Friday is known to Tim at x2367. ketball game, assertion trainif'!ll, how to do well on an 
GF"NT;GOT A 1 IN EMIL.HE KNOWS -The ~ys crashed out 

unfamiliar necl<s. Plesse retum . .................... . and I'm about to graduate! interview... the list is endless. Sian-ups 
HOWTOTREATAWOMAN; HE SPENT 1n the living room 

">~.3828. Loet: Gold robe chain with solid gold ~ If you have any available GA.'s for a are in the La Fortune Ballroom on ~eb 25 HIS LAST DATE MAKING LOVE TO THE
fr0017-9 pm.
get medalion. Poeaibly lost in the ACC weekend game,
~·i:OSr·MY··ee ·:riCt<ri·;.:;: ·TH"Ai.. ·reA~ TOILET.HE IS SAFE;HE HAD TWO 
Thursday niglt in the indoor soccer tourn­. call Lorieat 2810-Todayl H;;y·o;;oo:iil&·~~y:·o;·~&i?·i-i'~
ONCE''LiPON..A..iiMe··~·N·A-FAR..AWAv .COUNT EM TWO ROTATIONS OF
RIBlE GAME AGAINST LOYOlA. SEC­ament near gym one or two upstairs. Sen­(I m a bit ol a pup, so money is no object.) 
SWIMMING.A REGULAR FUN Ten (don'tjump). 

TION 3 P0N 2. IF YOU FOUND IT DOMERLAND THERE WAS AN INSTI­
timental value and reward is ollered $$$$. 
GUY.RIGHT CHUCK!!! CALL 1581 FOR

PLEASe CALL JACK AT 1670. MY If found please cal Mike Viracola at 283-
TUTION CALLED FREE UNIVERSITY. SAAAH'BAANSFifljJ·i·s·21!! ··········-······· 
AN EXCITING EVENING. 

NAME IS ON IT. PLEASE. I AM A Free University featured several fun
4100anytime.
SENIOR AND THIS IS MY LAST classes to INhich lew people went. People 
~·;;;;st;i·~··oo·~i··~~··~~ 
HA PEE BIR DAY! 

CHANCE TO SEE OUR TEAM DO OOlri'ii:)'~i· iii 'Brigdei:;;·~ 'CQ;t;y thought that anything that was free could WELl.. not be fun. Realizing that the attendance you happ~
Then take the bus down toStreet CALL 5118 ask for C&thyam 

~ ··········-·········-···················-..-··············-····· Daytona or Ft. Lauderdale with the HA PEE BIR DAY! 
.................. ............................................. problem resuhed fr001 the University's
WANTED: 2 GAs lor the Washington name. the STUDENT ACTIVITIES SAB! For the measly sum ol $1 00 you can REWARD! $50.00 offered for brown get transportation tc the land ol sun and
game call284-4230 

BOARD ~ the name to CHEAP 
5ampeorvte hatd suitcaae. Luggage tag fun. call SABat ZJ~n57 for more info. Love, Margie
TH~RillSIDro~N U~ITy. To~· up for
I FOR RENT J
says Douglal Snel. Call John on daYI or OIVI!J1¥Ivfr Q0 0 the La ·-············-···· 
dilpatcher eveninga at United Umo You got ·ern, me want ·em 00111 toniQflf ~ -9 pm. Ha~~·;p;·~··;;·~··i~·voo·~: 'MiD EVER YOU WERE: 
PLEASe. 674~993 or 255-3068 clear accounting text that you haven't Good works do not make a good man, Me pay big wampum lor your tix! ······················••••·••·••······· ........••.•••••.... heard about the great trips to Ft. but a good man does good worlts.
riiOW··R"eN"Tioo·· i=6R··i.ioo..SCH'CX:i
l6Sr~··sef ..6F ·i<E'fs"Wii=.:i·R06M RIDERS NEEDED: For spring break to Lauderdale and Daytona Beach? Well. it Thank you lor carrying me CNer the 
YEAR-4, 5 & 6-SDRM. HOMES. COM­
KEYS, CAR KEYS, AND HOME KEY Need 2 GA lor Washington Central Florida. C&ll284-5480 is time that you called the Student Activi­puddle&­
PLETELY FURN. INCl. WASHER &
(GREEN PLASTIC ClAD). IF FOUND, ... ···················-·. ties Boerd and found out about them! Do itI>LEASE CAll t.tO, 3624. DRYER. 234-9364. C8l Mary 284 -4365 The scn-t1a is on the looee! soon. spring break's coming up fast. Sherri D 
a ............................. 
The Observer Monday, February 25, 1985 -page 9 
Interhall basketball 
Last night's games 
~,Division 
Sorin 44 St. Ed's 42 
Morrissey 47 Grace 45 

'B' Division 
Morrissey B 56 
Stanford B 51 Pangborn B 47 Off Campus B 45 
Tonight's games 
St. Ed's vs Grace, 6 p.m., Gym 4 Stanford B vs 0-C B, 7 p.m., Gym 4 
Ihe Obser:ver-= 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following positions: 
News Editor  Features Editor  
Saint Mary's Executive  Photo Editor  
Editor  Controller  

Sports Editor Advertising Manager Viewpoint Editor Production Manager Copy Chief 
Questions about these positions should be directed to Sarah Hamilton at The Observer. Personal statements and resumes are due Wednesday, Feb. 27 at 5 p.m. 
The Observer 3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Fencing 
continuedfrom page 12 
of the Fighting IUini, who came into the Saturday morning affair at 18-1. "They've got some people here that would be starters on any other team that I know of, and they'd certainly be starters on mine." 
leading the way to victory for the Irish was the Irish sabre squad which finished at 154-35 (.815) for the year. The sabre men went 9-0 against the Illini and 6-3 against a strong Tartan squad. 
"Our sabre men are fencing up a storm," said DeCicco. "There's nobody in the entire Midwest, as a team, that could touch them. There was nobody in the East, that could touch them either with the possible exception of Pennsylvania." 
Heading the onslaught by the Irish sabre squad was senior captain Mike Janis. Janis went 18-1 on the weekend to finish up with a 1985 record of 42-3. His 42 victories topped the team and propelled him into third place on the all-time Irish list with 157 wins against only 27 losses in four seasons. 
Juniors DonJohnson andJohn Ed­wards were also strong going from the No. 2 and No. 3 spots. Johnson went I 0-2 ( 28-7) and Edwards went 1I-1 (25-5). Despite a pulled stomach muscle, junior Tony Con­soli went 3-0 ( I3-6). and freshman Geoffrey Rossi finished up his rookie season with a 4-0 weekend ( 18-2 on the year). 
An improved 1985 epee squad finished up a rather good year at I 5 2-4 3 (.779). Going from the top spot was senior captain Andy Quaroni who was 8-3 for the weekend action. His 35-6 season record propelled him into eighth place on the all-time Irish list with a four-year record of I33-23. 
Going from the second spot for the Irish was junior transfer Chris­tian Scherpe. Scherpe, who came to 
The StudentActivities Board is looking for•• 
the Irish from Cal-State Northridge a 76-8 record. His second loss of the after that school disbanded its fen­year came at the hands of Wayne cing program last year, compiled a State junior Stephan Chauvel by a 
34-8 season record with a 9-3 close 5-4 margin. weekend performance. Junior captain Mike VanderVel­
"Notre Dame has been very lucky den finished with a 35·7 record after to recruit Scherpe," said Ettore also going 9-1. And junior Craig Bianchi, defending national champ Funai also finished up strong going in the epee from Wayne State who 6-5, 21-I 1 on the year. Both Vander­went 26-0 on the year. "He's a very Velden and Funai where a strong 2-I good fencer, and so they are a better against Wayne State as all three team than they were last year." losses for the foil squad came at the 
Junior Mike Gostigian, who hands ofChauvel who finished at 38­returned to the Irish squad after a 4 on the year. one-year layoff, went 8-4 to boost While the Irish finished their him to a 16-6 mark on the year. Gos­season without a loss and dispelled tigian was especially impressive any skepticism in regards to the . against Wayne State as he was the strength of their attack, knocking off only Irish epeeist to notch two wins the defending national champs for against the Tartans, going 2-I and the second time this year was losing only to Bianchi. gratifying in itself, according to 
Junior Brian St. Clair went 4-0 to DeCicco. finish at an impressive 21-4, and "Our 16-1I win was a little bit bet­sophomore Tim Vaughan proved to ter than we did at Wayne State ( 1 5­be the only unbeaten fencer on the I2 on Feb. 1 ) which proves we're team as he finished at I4-0 for the capable ofstaying with a strong team year. and winning," said DeCicco. "The 
In the foil, defending national only disappointment, if you could champion Charles Higgs-Coulthard call it that, is that we didn't have any was 9-1 on the weekend to go an im­of our fencers go undefeated against pressive 33·2 on the year. In two Wayne State -that we didn't have years, the sophomore has compiled somebody beat their top men." 
holds, fits in much better with the transition game the Irish like to run

Blumb 
this year. Price is more the outside shooter. Yet, it seems that Price

continuedfrom page 12 
would get some playing time in 

With David Rivers playing as well games like Saturday's, iffor no other as he has been lately, the Irish seem reason to give Hicks a breather. to have their backcoun in order This team needs to have a solid now as they head into the final four core of eight players going into the games of the season and toward an tournament, which, for all practical NCAA tournament bid. But one purposes, means that it is going to question lingers. What about joseph need Joseph Price. Phelps' philoso­Price? Where does he fit into the phy has been to go with the "hot" scheme now? player, but how deep ofa bench are 
Price saw plenty of duty on the the Irish going to have come tourna­bench Saturday-all 40 minutes to be ment time? exact. It's not exactly like the guy's Perhaps for now, though, Notre been playing all that bad himself the Dame must simply worry about get· last month. He scored a career-high ting into the 64-team affair as I 7 points and had three assists a opposed to how well it will do once week-and-a-half ago against New Or­it gets in. No game is a gimme at this leans. And a couple weeks earlier, he time of the year, and the Irish are was perhaps the game's most likely to have their hands full each of valuable player when Notre Dame the next four times they step out topped UCLA in Pauley Pavilion. onto the coun. A sign near the lock­
Price's big downfall, though, is erroom door might sum it up best that Hicks, with the quickness he for this team: "THE TIME IS NOW." 
-----------------.-. 
t t COUNSELINE t t 
t All you do is dial 239-7793 and ask for the 
t 

name or number of the tape you wish to hear. 
t

f Below is the list of tapes offered. COUNSELINE f is a confidential telephone service that offers t f professionally taped materials covering a variety tf of student concerns. 
t t t 
NEW HOURS: 4-12 p.m. MON-THURS
t t 
4-10 p.m. FRI t 

't t 
't , , Dtlt t t
I l'ti-lp looillut 
~.,tats-,
• ---·lilts-, ' 
a.c-lllt .., .... ~ -r-1~ ...llllt ettll c-t.....,tlft ~U\el•• ....lilt ettll ..... ...-.~ Jell..,--... te -• llltll It

t • .."..,.... t 
11 -....o,..wO\.._, 11 latllll Alllo

t 10 ,_,, · • t 
10 ·-u~,. Zl llal• •••r aualLty · 
,. 
-lotJ -_1.,1o ...,. to Cape Vitll It

t t 
n .. to -1 ettll ._llauo 
,. 
lllcnulllt lalf·-·-­loiUC... lalf·ll~ -car~· 

t , " -"-··,._, t 
,, 
lelautl• bftc1HI • C:O,llll ettil ......

t ,. t 
r-1• S.. lol..-_o -Stroooeo tO llalo S.. lelo--a....o -Stno..o 
.....lilt to Accept , __If

t .. ,. t 
61 ...t 11 TborapJ -.. to U.o It 
70 Iafat•tlOII « .._1
., t
-to ~ ettll o -lelatlaet~hlp

t .. 
t 
Deatll -0,1"1 .es -rotandl.. C:rlof 
90 ...,,...,.,.,_ t 
1.0 Early Sl-of oa ol-1 troll!• 161 leo,_.U.lo Doclol""" .-lki.Aill.. .02 Self Ue•rti,..••

t t 
4U ~loo of C..troet lolllll.ac All llb&t lo ..........!... 4ll -to Deol wltb PopnooiCIII

t t 
4]) ~ootoe u a Llfootylo 471 -lac 1---'.,.' fr-Porooto 479 Deell.. vlt• Alev~.~.t.c Pu..ta

t t 
491 Sutctdal Crlolo 492 -.pLal.. SulcLdal PoteeUalo In Othero.., llolp1.. s-Ia a Sulclllol Crlolo

t t 
1985-86 Con:tmittee Chairmen Ideas & Issues Cultural Arts Cantpus Entertainntent Services Publicity Calendar Special Events Musical Entertainntent Movies 

Applications available at the StudentActivities Office Due February 25, 1985 
GET EXPERIENCE !! 
t t t  COUNSELINE is a completely anonymous service offered by the Counseling and Psychol­ogical Services Center, University of Notre  t t t  
t  Da1ne. For further information or assistance, call  '  
t  239-7336  t  

-----------------­
"" 
. 4 


~~ --~-~----~----~~
..

,...... 
--------------._----~----------------------------------------------------~.. 
' 'l \ The Observer 
I \ 

Team ends season on high note 
Irish win two over Mich.-Dearborn 
I 
By ED DOMANSKY 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team ended the 1984-85 season in fine fas. hion, sweeping a pair ofgames from the University of Michigan· Dearborn over the weekend. The Irish hung on to take a 5-4 win on Friday night, then rallied on Satur­day to grab a thrilling overtime vic­tory by the same 5-4 score in the 
. season finale. Notre Dame ended the season with five straight victories and im­proved its record to 1 1-16-1. "It was a great way to end the year," said Irish co-captain Bob Thebeau after scoring Saturday's winning goal. "It has been a real growing year and we came on strong at the end. We proved to ourselves that hard work really pays off." Aside from the two victories, the highlight of the series came when two Irish players added their names to the record book. Co-captain Brent Chapman became the all-time goal scoring leader when he picked up his 1 05th career goal at 4:53 of Saturday's third period, overtaking Greg Meredith. Chapman came into the series needing three goals to set the mark. He picked up one on Friday and added the record-tying score at 
12:17 of the first period Saturday. Chapman also was credited with his 1OOth career assist when he assisted 
Irish 
continuedfrom page 12 
he could roll for us, but it turned out he couldn't." 
Sinek missed the only shot he took in five minutes, chipping in more to the Irish effort when he picked up a technical foul at 12:53 ofthe half. 
Following Tim Kempton's free­throw conversion and a Hicks tip-in ofa miss by Barlow, Notre Dame led by 10, 49-39, and the Irish knew they'd never look back. But to make sure the Cougars knew it, the Irish later tacked on a five-minute, 7·0 run for good measure to widen the lead to 60-44, and BYU never seriously threatened again. 
Freshman guard Andy Toolson tallied 13 points for the Cougars, while sophomore center Tom Gneiting totaled six boards in addi­tion to Saarelainen's nine. 
The win was a bigstep for the Irish on the road toward the NCAA tourn­ament. With Marquette's loss to Dayton onSaturday, the Irish sit atop the group ofMidwest independenls. The Irish are 2-2 and 17·7 overall; Dayton is 3-2 but 17-8 overall; Mar­quette is 1-2 and 16-8 overall; and DePaul is 2·2 and 16-8 overall. 
Marquette still must play DePaul twice, and Dayton and the Irish once, while the Irish close out the season at Dayton. 
Brigham Young (58) 

M FG-A FT-A R F P Saarelainen 36 4-13 2-4 9 2 10 Pollard 26 3-6 0-0 4 2 6 Gneiting 33 2-9 0-0 6 2 4 Perry 40 8-14 3-4 2 3 19 Toalson 31 6-10 1-2 4 5 13 Sinek 5 0-1 0-0 0 0 0 Nikchevich 14 0-1 0-0 1 5 0 Webb 2 0-1 0-0 1 1 0 Chatman 8 1-1 0-1 2 2 2 Mathews 1 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 Kellogg 4 2-2 0-0 2 0 4 
200 26-58 6-11 31 22 58 

FG Pet. -.448. FT Pet. -.545. Team rebounds -4. Turnovers -14. Asststs -9 (Perry 4) Technicals-Sinek. 
Notre Dame (67) 

M FG-A FT·A R F P Royal 32 , -3 2-2 3 3 4 Barlow 40 3-13 3-4 8 2 9 Kempton 27 3-4 1-1 2 4 7 Rivers 37 8-17 8-8 5 2 24 Hicks 40 8-12 3-7 7 2 19 Duff 5 0-0 0-0000 Dolan 15 1-4 2-2 6 3 4 Voce 4 0-0 0-0 0 1 0 
200 24-53 19-24 31 17 67 

FG Pet. -.453. FT Pet. -.792. Team 
rebounds -4. Turnovers -16. Assists -10 
(Barlow 3). Technicals-none. 
Halftime-Notre Dame 38, Brigham Young 
29. Officials-Hank N1chols. Gerry Donaghy. Jim Danner (all ACC). A-11,345 (c). 
on a goal by Tim Reilly in Friday's first period. 
Reilly put his name into the record book when he picked up his 36th assist ofthe season on a goal by Chapman Friday night. He now holds the season record for assists by a right wing, breaking the mark set by Ian Williams during the 1972-73 season. 
Friday night the Irish seemed to have things in hand right from the early going, totally dominating play at both ends ofthe ice on the way to a 2-0 lead at the first intermission. Notre Dame outshot Dearborn, I 5­9, in the period. Reilly and John Nickodemus accounted for the Irish tallies. 
In the second period, however, Notre Dame suffered a brief defen­sive breakdown and had some diffi­culties moving the puck. But by the period's conclusion, the Irish had managed to cling to their two-goal lead, 4-2. Dave Waldbillig and Tom Mooney scored for Notre Dame, while Rick Osburn connected twice early in the period for the Wolves. 
Chapman's 103rd career goal at 
8:33 ofthe third period proved to be the winner for the Irish. 
Marc Guay turned in a solid per­formance in the Irish net to earn the victory. He turned away 30 Dear­born shots. john Guzina and Chuck Irwin teamed up in the Wolves' net and stopped 34 Notre Dame shots. 
Saturday night, Thebeau ended the suspense when his wrist shot from just inside the blueline whizzed past Irwin at 5:28 of the overtime period. 
After trailing, 2-0, just 2:48 into the game, the Irish left themselves with an uphill battle. But they never gave up and by the end of the opening period, they had fought back to tie the score, 2-2. Mooney and Chapman turned on the red light 1:15 apart, the first coming at the 11: 12 mark. 
Chapman's record-setting goal at 
4:53 ofthe third period put the Irish on top, 3-2, after Reilly found the senior left wing parked alone at the corner of the Dearborn net. 
Reilly then scored the fourth Notre Dame powerplay goal of the game on a rebound of a shot by Thebeau at 5:43 to knot the score and help send the game into the ex­tra session, 
The game was slightly marred by a brawl at 12:24 of the final period. Seven players and Dearborn assis­tant coach Rich Gauthier were ejected from the game in the inci­dent. Notre Dame lost Chapman, Rob Ricci and Steve Ely. The Wolves played without Jim Brailean, Dave Kromm, Dan Whelan and joe Char­tier. 
The series marked the last appear­ances for Irish seniors Ely, Ricci, Torn Parent and AI Haverkamp. Reilly and Chapman may return for another season pending acceptance to the Notre Dame MBA program. 

• • • • • • • • NEW GROUP-1ST TIME EVER • • • • • • • • 
Famii~Ties 
a ehanee to e~amine ~our famil~ relationships 
12 -1 :15 Wednesday Starting February 27th 
If interested, Call 239-7336 to sign up 
(Counseling & Psychological Services) 
• • • • • • • • NEW GROUP ·1ST TIMEEVER • • • • • • • • 

~ 
'IlJiNRH. 
......_ 
Dote: 
FE8.26 
Time: 
7 P.M., 9 P.M. & JJ P.M. 
Place: 
ENGI­
NEERING 
AUDITORIUM 

I Natre Dame I  
I  Avenue  I  
I  Apartments  I  
II  Apartments Available for  II  
I  Summer Months  I  
I1  Calloffice 3-6p.m.daily  I1  
1  234-6647  I  

r----------------~ 
~----------------· 
Monday, February 25, 1985 -page 1 0 


Tbe ~rver/Phil Deeter 

Irish co-captain Brent Chapman broke into tbe record books with this score, becoming Notre Dame's all-time scoring leader with his 105th careergoal in tbe thirdperiod ofSaturday's contest withMichigan-Dearborn. TheIrish won bothgames bya 5-4 count. EdDomansky bas tbe story at left. 
EUROPEAN 
TRAVEL 
We specialize in student trips! 
SEVEN SEAS TRAVEL 
• AIR • LAND • GROUP 
• TOURS 

1232-79951 
525 N. MICHIGAN 


... ,. .. -· " ........ ". .. . . 

The Picture Man PR-ESENTS 
JutltOtr cpofleVtm CWee{Qe"d 
"Proofs on Display" 

Where: LaFortune Student Center When: Mon., Tues., &Wed., Feb. 25-27 Time: 11 a.m.-4 p.m. each day 
., 

Basement of LaFortune: THE NAZZ i
--::~ 
Bring your discount coupon 


Monday,. February 25, 1985-page 11 
Doonesbury 
\Uill

rr:Jl¥JYA COAUT/ON OF ~ 
fARM 8ELT5CNATORS I!! il: j PRfJI{)5&[) A~IJJ4Y-OF-L!Ft" l_h 
" LIJAN PRDSRAM 70 5HCJR& : UP THE NATION's AlUNG ~ FAMILY FAFMS .. 
r / 
. I I 
g 
~ 
Zeto 
ONE MORE 6RE:A.T AMERICAN SHORT STORY FINISHED! 
0 
0 


Campus 
12:15-1:15 p.m. -Workshop, "The State & Crisis in Tanzania: Towards a Systematic Evaluation," Prof. Howard Stein, Roosevelt University, Room 1 3 1 Decio Hall. 
4:30 p.m. -Lecture, "Chorismate Mutase: An Enzyme Catalyzed Pericyclic Reaction?" Prof. Jeremy Knowlens, Harvard University, Room 123 Nieuwland. 4:30p.m. -General Meeting, Environmental Con­cerns Organization, library of CSC. 5 -7 p.m. -Senior Formal Registration, LaFortune and LeMans, S56. 6 p.m. -Student Senate Meeting, Room 122 Hayes Healy. 7 & 9 p.m.-Monday Night Fllin Series,"Medea," Annenberg Auditorium. 7 & 9:30p.m.-Film, "Midsummer Night's Dream," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Shake­speare Club. 7 -9 p.m. -Sign-ups, For Cheap Thrills University ( Fomerly Free University), LaFortune Ballroom, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, Free. 7 p.m. -Meeting, AIESEC, Bowling Night, AIESEC Office, Basement of LaFortune. 7 p.m. -Discussion Series, "Nicaragua at the Crossroads," Chuck Ruhlin & Joe Bongiori, Room 124 CSC, Sponsored by SOLA, Free. 8 p.m. -Lecture, Jon Silken, English Poet and Critic, Editor of Stand, Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Sophomore Literary Festival. 9 p.m. -Sophomore Bowling Night, Beacon Bowl, Bus Leaves library Circle at 8:30, Sponsored by Sophomore Advisory Council, Bus -S2, Sign up With Dorm Reps. 
TY Tonight 
7:00p.m.  16  M•A•s•H  
22  Three's Company  
28  Jeopardy  
7:30p.m.  16  Barney Miller  
22  WKRP in Cincinnati  
28  Wheel of Fortune  
8:00p.m.  16  1Vs Bloopers & PracticalJokes  
22  Scarecrow & Mrs. King  
28  Hardcastle & McCormick  
34  Wonderworks  
9:00p.m.  16  Movie -Evergreen  
22  Kate & Allie  
28  Movie -A Bunny's Tale  
34  American Playhouse  
9:30p.m.  22  Newhart  
lO:OOp.m.  22  Cagney & Lacey  
ll:OOp.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  Movie -Front Page  

SENA~, HaUIJJIU >W {)trc£'t'IJN& /)){SJ(f;f< A F.4RM FM11L-Y 15 
ti./6/8/..E FOR A 
IAJAY-OF-L/Fe LIJ4Nf 
r;::::::::::;n/ 
NOW J:JST ®5T ME 
ON Tri!S ONE! YOUR PAPER WILL BEA HIT 
NOW 6ET TO CLASS! 


The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS  36 "­of Picardy"  63 An Andrews  11 Always  
1 Eden name  38 Consumed  64 Poetic black  12 "Come ­my.••"  
5 Motif  39 Wallet items  65 Anguish  13 Obey  
10 Alcott heroine  40 Day  66 Collar style  21 Gaelic  
14 Ballet wear  67 Cleave  
15 Group of six  41 Play part  68 Bergen's  23 "Gil-"  
16 Bacchanal cry  42 Family name  Mortimer  25 Odorless  
prefix  69 Escritoire  element  
17 Crafts'  43 Nuances  27 Garlic section  
partner  44 Succeeding•  28 Kind of  
18 Afr. mammal  45 Undivided  DOWN  sentence  
for short  1 Rat·­ 29 Concerning  
19 Woman in law  47 New England  2 Sp. money  
20 Suit- capital  3 "-boy!"  30 Detective name  
49 NYC district  32 Milk: comb.  
22 Wooded  51 Mother of  4 Cow ponies  form  
24 Bedouin  Apollo  5 Menace  33 Carnivore  
26 Ledge  52 Fr. region  6 Interjection  34 Eerie  
27 Lamont­ 7 Way out  
(The Shadow)  56 Transportation  8 "­born free"  37 Strong fiber  
for surgery  40 Bigots  
31 Candle  60 Subtle  9 Esau descen·  41 Lent  
ingredient  emanation  dants  43 Dog or fox  
35 Thrust  61 Lariat  10 Occurred  44 Aleutian isle  

/A/ELL.., FIRST 7Hel MUST PROVE THEiY STIU MAKE 7HEIR. OWN CORN/3REA{}.. 
~---~~CH?.wc-~~ 
..•. §] / 
KevinWalsh 
(( 
GONE WITH THE ACORN 
by Zeto Me. Spo:5h 
( 
The Far Side. Gary larson 

"Look at this mob. We'll be lucky if there's a seat cushion left." 
46 "Behold-at 54 Golfclub 
the door" 55 Eli 48 Deference 57 Tiny Archibald 50 Tearjerker 58 Son of Seth 52 Boxer Max 59 Gl 53 A Goldberg 62 Craggy hill 
Friday's Solution 
! t 
© 1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 


10% off on purchases under $5

announees 
15% off on purchases over $5 

Discounts up to 15% clip and sav• thi• ad!! 2nd Floor LaFortune 
EMPIRES :l/l/85

Open M-F, 3-7 p.m. 


Monday, February 25, 1985 -page 12 

Guards lead Notre Dame to 67-58 win over BYU 
Royal's defensive play holds Saarelainen to just 10 points 
By MARC RAMIREZ Barlow shot only three-for-13 
Sports lT7rlter from the field, but contributed two 
buckets in Notre Dame's 7-0 run that 

For a while it seemed that Satur­put the Irish ahead for the first time 
day's contest between Notre Dame since the opening minutes of play, 
and the Cougars of Brigham Young 23-22.
• 
might be a closer game than it BYU's Timo Saarelainen had been
~ ~ 
~ -turned out to be. averaging 23.3 points per game until ~ )' 
The Irish toyed around with the he met Donald Royal in the ACC. 
~ ,· 
idea ofbeing behind early, but after a The 6-6 Cougar forward'"Was held to 
~ 
few rumblings from the ACC sellout just I 0 points on 4-of-13 shooting. ~ ~ crowd of 11,345 and a pressure "Timo hasn't shot well the last l \ defense that kept the Cougars run· three games," said Anderson. ''It ' " ning around in circles, they rallied to seems like he gets pushed, shoved r s; a 27-26 lead and never looked back and hacked, but he gets maybe 20 ~ ~ en route to a 67-58 victory. percent of the calls. But I suppose 
l ' 
I '
.. Rebounding · or lack thereof -I'm just seeing it from BYll's stand­..\ hurt the Irish in the first phases of point." the game, as the Cougars scored on With Saarelainen having trouble
!' 
second and third chances to take maintaining visibility, the Cougars'"~ leads at 16-10, 18-12 and 22-16. scoring load fell on 6-1 senior guard r "We had lapses on rebounding Marty Perry, a native of Hanover, r\ early," admitted Notre Dame head Ind. Perry, who normally scores just r' \ coach Digger Phelps, "but once we under four points a game for BYU, 
r (.' Forwardjim Dolan looks to get rid ofthe basket­away from the Cougars to win, 67-58, and upped 
settled down and got to our press, canned eight of 14 shots from the
'· ' 
ball, moments before flipping it out to Scott Hicks their record to 17-7. Marc Ramirezdetails thegame 
we just made BYU play our game." field and three-of-four from the line 
in Saturday's game against Brigham Young. Hicks at right. 
"When Notre Dame extended its to garner· a team-high 19 points, only
had 19 and David Rivers 24 as the Irish pulled 
~ \ 1{ defense, we didn't manage it well," the third time this season he has I • said Brigham Young coach Ladell scored in double figures. Anderson. "We've struggled on the gunning from
. ' Finish with perfect 23-0 record With Perry the 
boards this year, but we've gotten outside, the Cougars were almost better. They (the Irish) sustained extricated themselves from the hole
~ ~ 
their board play today. They're a they put themselves into at halftime. 
:\· } Fencers beat defending champions great rebounding team." After the Irish took the lead on 
'' ·~ 
By MICHAEL). CHMIEL SaturdaY, the Irish returned to the but I'm also happy in the way that we 1be Irish tandem of Scott Hicks Hicks' slam, BYU allowed its hosts to 
; f Sports Writer ACC Fieldhouse to meet the chal­won," said Irish head coach Mike and David Rivers riddled the BYU run off an 11-3 spurt in the final .\ ' 
lenge of six Midwestern archrivals. DeCicco. "The team responded defense, Hicks striking inside and minutes of the half, a spree that put 
Saturday, the Notre Dame men's By the day's end they chalked up six beautifully. We beat a strong Wis­Rivers firing from the outside. Hicks Notre Dame comfortably on top, 38­
fencing team ended its 23rd straight more victories. They downed consin team, and then we won scored 19 points on 8-of-12 shoot­29. 
winning season by taking its second Chicago, 21-6, and then took Purdue against a stronger Illinois team and ing, including a dunk off a rebound But Perry led a Cougar run that 
straight match from defending na­and Northwestern by identical 22·5 an even stronger Wayne State team." that put Notre Dame ahead to stay, cut the gap to five, 44-39, to start out 
tional champion Wayne State on the margins. In the afternoon, they came The unbeaten season was the 1Oth and pulled down seven rebounds. the second half. Anderson inserted 
way to a perfect 23-0 season record. back to notch big wins against Wis­in the history of the Irish fencing defensive specialist Scott Sinek, who 
Friday night, the Irish easily consin, 18-9, Illinois, 19·8, and squad dating back to 1934. It was Rivers was yanked in favor of Dan had sat out the first 20 minutes be­
downed the Michigan State Spartans, Wayne State, 16-11. their first since 1979 when the Irish Duff at the midpoint of the first half cause of a dislocated kneecap, 
19-8, to begin the weekend. "I'm not only happy that we won, won their last national champion­after a series of turnovers that con· during the run. 
ship. tributed to the Cougars' early lead. "Scott's been a great guard for us 
"Notre Dame does not only have a But the rest seemed to put his game all year," said Anderson. "If they 
great bunch of athletes, they have back on track, and when he returned picked an all-defensive team in col­
Hicks returns to form 
got depth which is unheard of at Illi­three minutes later he constantly lege, he'd be on it. I thought maybe nois," said Art Schankin, head coach frustrated the slower BYU we had a chance to get back into it if defenders, eventually tying his 
see J.'ENCING, page 9 see IRISH, page 10
in Brigham Young win 
season-high with 24 points. 

~ ~ Jeff 

Keys' 20 propel Irish to 68-57 win 
\ ' 
"" 
~ ' 
\ ·' Blumb 
~ ' 
•\ ,• 
Women raise 

. Assistant Sports Editor 
\
. 
mark to 15-8 

H 
One year ago in Provo, Utah, Notre Dame guard Scott Hicks made a steal in the final minutes against Brigham Young which would have put the Irish 
By MAR1Y BURNS 

in an excellent position to beat the Cougars on their home court. The only 
Sports Writer 

trouble was, although replays later showed the steal to have been clean, it 
H 
was whistled as a foul and Notre Dame went on to lose, 68-64. The Notre Dame women's basket­
While Hicks may not have made a game-winning steal in Saturday after-. 
\ ' I noon's rematch with BYU, his 19-point, seven-rebound effort was one of ball team swallowed a big gulp of 
• 
~ ( relief yesterday afternoon at the

' I the big reasons the Irish were able to come out on top of the Cougars, ACC, as it held off a pesky DePaul
67-58. For the sophomore from Indianapolis, the game marked a return to Lady Blue Demons squad. 68-57.
the form he showed earlier this season while getting the starting call the And because Irish forward Lynn
first 14 games of the season. ' Ebben sank two pressure-filled free
Hicks carried a 1 5.8 point scoring average through the first six games, throws with one second remaining
but when he came back from the holiday break, his average for the next 12 on the clock, the boisterous crowd
games dipped to only 5.1 points. In the meantime, junior joseph Price of I, 143 each got a "big gulp" of a
stepped in admirably to fill Hicks' shoes at the shooting guard spot. different sort: a coupon for a free 7­
Now, after missing both the New Orleans and Duke games in the last two 11 "Big Gulp" soft drink. 
weeks because he was in the infirmary, Hicks appears to be back in the fold Ebben's free throws forged the
again. He went out Wednesday night against Fordham in Madison Square necessary 11-point difference, al­
Garden and turned in seven points and six rebounds playing 25 minutes. lowing everyone in attendance to
Saturday Hicks showed he was fully recovered from the virus which had receive the soda (courtesy of the
held him out of action. fertile mind ofa 7-1 1 promoter), but

"I was in a slump. Any athlete goes through it," said Hicks. "I just couldn't it was the 6-0 junior's other 15
get things going. The main thing was that I kept my head up and kept points which keyed the Irish attack
working hard. Then things really happened for me (Saturday)." as they upped their season record to
"This was Scotty's best game of the year by far," was the praise given by 1 S-8, and a league-leading 8-1 in the
Irish head coach Digger Phelps afterward. "He picked up where he left off North Star Conference.
the other night. We really missed him last week against Duke." Forward As for DePaul, who handed the
Ken Barlow echoed Phelps' thoughts, saying, "When he plays like that, he Irish their only conference loss of
makes it easier for the front line." the season earlier in the year in
Hicks did a bang-up job rebounding against BYU. Two of his eight field Senior Ruth Kaiser and the Notre Dame women's basketball Chicago, it was a case of lost oppor­
goals came off of offensive rebounds and he did the best job of any Notre team suroived the DePaul attack yesterday, and rewarded all in tunity. The Lady Blue Demons saw
Dame player in the first halfwhen the Cougars were getting a lot ofsecond attendance with a coupon fora 7-11 "Big Gulp" besides. Lynn Eb­their record drop to I 7-8 on the
and third shots at the offensive end. 
ben sank two free throws to push the final margin to II at 68-57. 
see WOMEN, page 8see BLUMB, page 9 

The Irish upped their record to 15-8. 

