.------~------~-------------­
Student senators-page 4 

VOL XIX, NO. 83 thl· independent ~tudent new~papn "lT\ ing notrt dame and ~aint man·.., WEDNESDAY,JANUARY 30,1985 


Obud sees 
•

an Increase in hopefuls for races 
By MIKE MILLEN 
SeniorStaffReporter 
This year's student body presi­

dent and vice president race prom­
ises to yield more candiates than last 
year, Ombudsman, the overseeing 
organization for the election, indi­
cated at last night's informational 
meeting. 
OBUD Election Coordinator 

Maher Mouasher clarified campaign 
rules at the optional meeting, atten­
ded by four sets ofcandidates. 
About campaign violations, 

Mouasher said, "We will be strict. 
No violations will pass through un­
detected and unpunished." 
Henry Sienkiewicz, OBUD direc­

tor, agreed. "We will be 
spot-checking ballot boxes, and will 
have two people on duty at all times. 
All endorsements must be verified 
before they are put up," he said, add­
ing, "The penalities are fairly nasty 
for violations of campaign ex­
penses." 
Each ofthe four sets ofcandidates 

can spend S95 for their respective 
campaigns. 
Presidential candidate Joe Zahn, 

sophomore, and running-mate 
junior Patrick McCormick, claimed 
to be "the Alternative." The two said 
they had "contacted a lot of people 
on campus and could represent 
them well." According to Zahn, 
"The problem with student govern­
ment is not in the people but in the 
structure itself." 
Referring to experience, McCor­

mick said "any student on this 
campus with intelligence could do 
the job." Zahn served as chairman of 
the JudiCial Board for part of last se­
mester. 
Presidential candidate Pat 

Browne and vice presidential hope­
ful joanie Cahill, both juniors, said 
they would "bring student govern­
ment down to the student body." 
see RACES, page 3 

It's that time of year again, when Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students willingly skip classes. and meals, to endure cx­trcmc cold and boredom-all for the chance to come away with a coveted pair of Keenan Revue tickets. Notre Dame's answer to Second City, the Keenan Revue, is this weekend, and ticket distri­bution was yesterday. As always, waiting at Saint Mary's was a bit more trying, since students were forced to sit outside O'Laughlin Auditorium. Students waiting in Chautauqua Ballroom, passed the time by playing cards, watching television, or even studying. But by the time 4:30 came, chairs had to be passed over the crowd to separate stampeding students. 
The first student to receive 1985 Keenan Revue tickets was John "the Goose" Gormley, a sopho­more from Flanner, who reportedly arrived in Chautau­qua at 7:15 a.m. 


Senators seek to make position more than a 'project job' 
By MARK WORSCHEH 
MaiUlging Editor 
It's a job that no one -not even those who do it -seems able to define. The title conjures images of rhetorical mas­tery, ofdebates over pressing student issues. But that rarely occurs. Mostly, the job involves attempting to get things done. 
Such is the role ofthe Notre Dame student senator. Not that any of the five senators are complaining about having to complete projects. Most just wish they could do more. 
"The students elect people to deal with the administration on major issues like the Alcohol Policy and the final exam policy, but student government doesn't really allow for that kind of consistent dialogue. It's a project job," says District 4's Tom Abood. 
Though Abood calls the vagueness of the position the greatest disappointment of his term, he remains positive concerning the year. "Once you realize what you're going to be doing and you adjust your thinking, you feel good about the projects you get done," he says. 
Other senators concur with Abood. 
Javier Oliva, who represents off-campus students, says he has been "quite pleased with what we've accomplished and 
the aura ofprofessionalism about the whole thing." "I've never seen a harder working and creative bunch of people," says Dan McNamara. 
But Pat Browne wishes more people inside student gov­ernment shared the senators' attitude. "Most in student gov­ernment think the position is unneccessary." Browne, the District 2 senator, attempted to get a budget for senators to expand their role, but the resolution was defeated. 
"I thought the role was a special projects role, but I wanted to put together social events for my constituents as well. They didn't think it was part of my job," he says. 
And the debate continues. In the fall, the senate became mired in a discussion ofthe senator's role for nearly an hour before weary representatives agreed that a committee should study the matter. The result was CREST, the Commit­tee for the Restructuring of Student Government, and the study still is underway. 
Meanwhile, with two months left in their terms, the senators seem to have settled in with the purely project aspect of the job. But even so, the senators have different methods ofplanning projects. 
McNamara, who recently arranged to have lights installed on the Lyons basketball courts, believes that much of what the senators do does not require a senate-approved resolu­tion. He has not written a resolution during his term. 
"It's not concrete, the need for resolutions for what I've done. They do help you feel out a consensus one way or the other. Resolutions have a place for things like the student store," says McNamara. 
Oliva, who has sponsored many resolutions, has no argu­ments about method, just about performance. He believes the load has not been shared equally. 
"I've been able to produce and a lot ofsenators haven't," says Oliva. "You need to find things to do and do them. Alot . have said 'I can't find things to do.' " The senator who seems to have had the toughest time grappling with the role is District 1 's Paul Healy. 
"I really wasn't sure was the goal of a senator was," says Healy, who was a senator at a Florida school before transfer­ring to Notre Dame. 
"That is the difference between here and what I was U!!ed to before. You didn't have to go and look for projects. We were delegated projects. I'm not a creative person, but every project I've been assigned has been completed. 
"Things just don't work the same in Florida as they do in Indiana. I don't know how to put it exactly. I'd rather not comment," he says. 
Healy does complain that he was removed from one 
see SENATE, page 4 

Wednesday,January 30, 1985-page 2
The Observer 
In Brief 

The Pentagon has approved S3 million for 
cleaning up Agent Orange, low-level radioactive wastes and spills of other hazardous materials at a sprawling Air Force base in the Florida Panhandle. Air Force officials say they will ask for at least $2 million more to finish the job. The Eglin projects are part ofa $112 million, Air Force-wide program that started in 1981 with the identification of potentially hazardous sites, said Lt. Col. Richard Hartman, the base's environmental protection chief. Eglin, responsible for devel­oping and testing non-nuclear weapons, conducted tests of Agent Orange during the Vietnam War. -AP 
An early work by the abstract expressionist painter Jackson Pollock has been acquired by the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston. "Troubled Queen" was painted on a gray background with green and purplish brown colors. Pollock, who lived from 1912 to 1956, poured or dripped yellows, reds and dark blues onto the paint­ing. The museum said the painting was purchased with funds from the sale of three minor works. It sold Renoir's "Woman with Black Hair" and "Girl Reading" as well as Claude Monet's "Autumn at Jeufosse." None of the prices were disclosed. Dr. jan Fontein, the museum director, said the Pollack painting "is a major addition to the museum's 20th century collection and provides an anchor for our already distinguished collection of American abstract and modern painting." -AP 
The New Zealand government for the second time delayed a decision on allowing a U.S. warship to pay a port call, saying Monday it would seek more information on whether the ves­sel would violate a ban on nuclear forces. New Zealand has been studying a request received from Washington in December for a U.S. navy warship to pay a port call during Australia-New Zealand-U.S. naval exercises in March. The Cabinet delayed a decision on the request at a meeting earlier this month. Prime Minister David Lange said Monday that New Zealand intelligence and defense officials had been unable to satisfy him that the warship would not be carrying nuclear weapons. -AP 
Of Interest 

'flle cha.tnpionship game of the 1985 Notre 
Dame College Bowl Tournament will take place tonight at 7 in Room 112-114 of the Center for Continuing Education. All students, fac­ulty and staff are welcome to attend the games. -The Observer 
Zoo-bee-da-dee-dee! Jazz recording artist, trum­peter John McNeil will present a concert with the Notre Dame jazz Groups in Washington Hall tonight at 9:30. Based in New York city, McNeil has played with the Horace Silver Quintet and the Thad Jones/Mel Lewisjazz Orchestra and is currently leading his own jazz quartet. Admission is free. -The Observer 
It's not too latefor juniors to register for Junior Parents Weekend. The deadline is Feb. 7. Ticket applications can be picked up and dropped off in the Student Activities office. juniors whose parents are not attending are encouraged to attend with friends. Stu­dents with special needs because ofhandicapped parents should call julie at 4 2 51. -The Observer 
Women engineers wishing to attend the Feb. 23 seminar "The 1985 Women Engineer: A Well-Rounded Profes­sional" should register with their dorm representative by tomorrow. The seminar at the Center for Continuing Education is sponsored by the Society of Women Engineers, but is open to all interested wo­men engineers. -The Observer 
Weather 
Light snow with accumulations of one inch or less today with highs from 25 to 
30. Chance of snow this morning is 60 per­cent. A SO percent chance ofsnow tonight and tomorrow with lows in the mid to upper teens and highs from 20 to 25. 


The Observer 
Th~ Obs~rver (USPS ~99 Z-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home foothall Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Observ~r is published by the students of the llnivershy of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for HOper year ( JZO per se­mester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46~~6. 
The Observer is a memher of The A.•sociated Press. All reproduction ri~ht~ are re~erved. 

Today's issue was produced by: 
Design Editor................................ Andy Saal Design Assistant ..................... Alex Peltzer Layout Staff............................ Sue andjulie Typesetters ................................. Vic and Ted News Editor ............................ Tess Guarino Copy Editor ....................................... Liz Flor ~ports Copy Editor.................. Eric and jeff Viewpoint Layout ................. Carol Brown Features Copy Editor................... Ed Nolan Features Layout ................... Andi Schnuck NO Day Editor ............................. Earl Baker Ad Deslgn.................................. Fred Nelson Photographer ............................. Mary Flynn 
Long lines: part of the Notre Dame Experience 
Notre Dame has a lot to offer-ifyou can wait. 
At Notre Dame, every student has the opportunity to learn about accounting, engineering or government, if he survives the lines at registration. 
The Notre Dame student has the privilege ofeating in dining halls awarded one of the highest awards any in­stitutional food service can receive, ifhe does not starve to death in line. 
A student can watch major college football in a stadium where Notre Dame's football prowess has dominated for many years, if he does not die of pneumonia from a long wait for tickets. 
Every aspect of the Notre Dame experience from a morning shower to a bedtime snack from foodsales is complete with a line. 
The line should not be looked on as a totally negative experienc. Unes can be a place of learning. People come to Notre Dame to learn so lines may be part ofa liberal education. 
Much can be learned about other people and 
Whaf was fhis li"e for aqai11?
yourself from the line expe­the morning. Morning rience. First, you test your people come in and want to
A

patience. For instance, say start a conversation, but you are roadtripping and 
your mind is still in bed. Fur­you realize that you need 
thermore, you have not put some cash and in a hurry. 
in your contacts and cannot You run over to the Admin­
tell who it is anyway. istration Building, take one 
step in the door and cannot The worst line to wait in go any further because you has to be the one that when have already hit the line. At you get to the end of it you least the ladies in the cas­find out it was the wrong hier's office are friendly one and have to start all when you get there. over. At least you will know 
You also have a chance to better next time. 
learn about your roommates f"'~ttw£1MHOLT and friends. "Is this line ever going to move? I can't stand it any more," a friend might complain. The only thing worse than waiting in line by yourself is waiting with someone who constantly fidgets, squirms and complains. Next year at football ticket distribution you will let them wait -alone. 
In these days ofrestrictions on social gatherings lines provide a place to meet people. You are forced to spend some time with people you do not necessarily know and it is easy to start up a conversation -just complain about the long line. You could be more creative and ask, "Is this the line for ... vaccinations?" filling in your fa­vorite contagious disease. 
Lines offer you an opportunity to learn about the stu­dent body as well. Manners mean more in lines than anywhere else. When New York Governor Mario Cuomo spoke at Notre Dame, a thin line stretched from the entrance ofWashington Hall toward the library and back near LaFortune. A few minutes before the doors opened, the line was thick close to the door and thinner farther out. People who had waited legitimately could 
~.,.........

rooooooOOOCY.Y'"...o"'..................... ...o"'...o-"'...o"'...o"'~.....................~ 
TYPING 
Teri"n Papers Resumes Letters Manuscripts Word Processing 
I§ 

Call Chris at: 
I§

234-8997 

S 4 sessions February 1-2 R 8 $15 March 8-9 ~ S April 12-13 l\ 
g 

CANCER. 
NOT 

KNOWING 
THE RISKS 
IS YOUR 
GREATEST 
RISK. 
Pre-Cana 
Weekend 

~ $65 ~ 
§ § 
I ~ § ~ 
§~ Call University Ministry ofFJCf••~oF ~s ~ Badin Office: 239-5242 ~~~ 
~_,.,._,...,.~_,.._.,...,..,...,.~..,....o-'"J"J"J"J".h"'J"J"J"J"J"J"J"...o"'J".JCI"'J.: 
John Mennell 
Assistant News Editor 


not go in because everyone in the front the line had "saved" a spot for three out of every four people he knew. 
Yesterday, before the Keenan Revue tickets were dis­tributed, the same line explosion occurred. It is nice to know everyone has so many friends. 
Some lines are not as bad as others. 
Waiting for lunch is not so bad because The Observer provides some entertainment. Unfortunately, lunch is at the end of the line and not always such a pleasant 
surprise. 
One of the worst lines has 
to be waiting for a shower in 
I-"JO When you are waiting at lunch tomorrow, the Credit Union Friday and the movie Saturday night, remember 

what a learning experience it can be. 
The Obseroer publishes its official opinion in the form of an unsigned, large-print, wide­column article on the Viewpointpage. These columns represent the opinion of a majority of The Obseroer editorial board. All other columns, on the Viewpoint page or other­wise, are the views oftheir authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board orThe Obseroer staff. 

University Ministry 
-:

Pre-Cana Programs ~ 

The Observer Wednesday, january 30, 1985-page 3 
Hall Presidents' Council's 'BOFA' club set to open tonight 
By SCOIT BEARBY 
StaffReporter 
Tonight marks the opening of the "Blow Off for Awhile" Club, sponsored by the Hall Presidents Council. Plans for the first event at 
9:30 in Flanner Hall were finalized at last night's HPC meeting. 
Refreshments and entertainment in a coffeehouse setting will be the main attraction. The council plans to rotate the BOFA social gatherings each week to the different dorms. 
Hall President Council Chairman Chris Taybacksaid he views the club as a "good social alternative" with a great potential for fun and en­courages all students to attend. 
In other council business, campus halls were given designated dates for their halls to donate blood. By as­signing specific dates to the dorms, the hospitals are better equipped to predict the number ofpints that will be collected, according to Tayback. Last semester, 121 more pints of 

BillHealy, left, andPatBrowneattend the Ombudsman informa­tion meeting for the upcoming elections last night in LaFortune's Little Theater. The two are candidatesfor student body president, along with sophomorejoeZahn and junior Michael O'Keefe. Elec­tion procedures and regulations were discussed with OBUD's elec­
tion coordinatorand director. 
Races 
continued/rampage 1 
"That's not a generic promise," Browne said. 
Browne, a student senator, said his experience will help him better work for the students. He also served as chairman of the student senate store committee, while Cahill, president of Lyons hall, served as chairwoman of the Wo­men's Role presentation to the board oftrustees. 
Thanks to you... • 
it works ... 
for ALL OF US ..,.,...,_, 
Juniors Bill Healy and Duane Lawrence, running for president and vice president, respectively, have made their priority, "the social life at Notre Dame." Healy said he could "better represent the students to the administration." 
Healy, head of the Reagan-Bush Campaign, said his experience will give him the vantage of"an outsider looking in. We will give a new ap­proach to student government.'' Lawrence is president of St. Ed­ward's hall. 
Presidential candidate Michael O'Keefe and running mate Charles Kromkowski, also juniors, said they were "confident that we can repre­sent the students at Notre Dame." 
Theindependentstudentnewspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
1985-86 Editor-In-Chief 

Open to any ND or SMC undergraduate in good standing 
Elected by 1985 General Board of The Observer 
Assume position March 25, 1985 

Applications must be submiHed to Bob Vonderheide by 5 p.m. Feb.1, 1985 
The Observer 3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
blood were collected at Notre Dame than last fall's totals. 
Student Senator Pat Browne re­portedon Notre Dame Credit Union policies. He said the Credit Union currently has a 21-day hold on checks, but this policy can be al­tered individually by the Credit Union's membership services, if the student has not overdrafted in the past year. Browne also reported that the current $20 overdraft charge is competitive with the South Bend area. 
Several announcements were made to the hall presidents, includ­ing ticket sale information for the upcoming M-TVI Multiple Sclerosis kick-off dance. Hall social commis­sioners will be selling tickets until Feb. 3. After that date, tickets will be available in the dining halls. 
Paul Healy, student senator, dis­cussed previous inefficiencies in dis­tributing newsletters to his district. An OBUD survey indicated students 
were not consistently receiving the publications. Healy asked hall presi­dents to ensure newsletter distribu­tion this semester. 
Tayback also asked hall presidents to continue encouragingstudents to use the Lafortune Center student store. Now that the post-break rush is over, he stated this is a "make or break" time for the store. 
Hall presidents were reminded of the Feb. 1 deadline for students in­terested in submitting Center for So­cial Concerns Summer Service Program applications. 

Problems of ethics in international relations debated at Law School 
By MARK E. WINTERS 
News Staff 
liberal and conservative perspectives clashed yesterday as Dr. Ernest Lefever, director ofthe Et­hics and Public Policy Center, and Dr. Harvey Seifert, author of U.S. Foreign Policy and Christian Et­hics, debated the question of ethics in international affairs. 
At the Law School, Seifert and Lefever agreed justice is the goal of both policies. However, the two disputed how to achieve justice. 
While Seifert emphasized an inter­national solution to world problems, Lefever said he found "nobility" in national solutions, stressing a "live and let live" international policy. 
In his opening statement, Seifert examined historical goals and ap­plied contemporary research. "The decision-making process of choos­ing out alternatives involves produc­ing consequences which move closest to ethical goals." 
Applying this guideline to U.S. policy, Seifert advocated increased 
U.S. aid to poorer nations. "While people are drowning, we're travel­ing on a luxury liner with excess baggage." 
"The only way to preserve privilege is to share it," Seifert said. 
In addition to increased aid, Seifert said he wants Americans to realize the limitations of economic nationalism, and form a new interna­tional economic order based on sharing ofpower. 
Seifert said he hoped the United States can reform its own domestic policy to serve as an example to other nations. "Our great inequity in wealth weakens our position. We are handicapped as long as we leave doubt about economic justice." 
In his rebuttal, Lefever said that ra­tional idealists, such as Seifert, do not realize the limits of human na­ture. "All political action is limited by man's dogged resistance to radi­cal change. 
"Real world politics is a struggle of power and purpose . . . moral crusaders tend to believe that what is possible is desirable because they misunderstand history." 
Attacking Seifert's international perspective, Lefever said, "The poli­tical possibility of world govern­ment is not there." 
Lefever attacked the United Nations, saying. "Since its formation, the United Nations has done more harm than good. All its separate agencies could be operated apart from the United Nations, probably more efficiently and more economi­cally." 
"It would be no great harm to na­tional interest, freedom and justice were the United Nations to disap­pear," Lefever said. 
In a press conference before the debate, both Seifert and Lefever ex-· pressed their views on international problems. 
Lefever said he believes U.S. foreign policy should be a response to other nations' foreign policy, not their domestic policy. "Who gave us the mandate to determine how other governments act?" he said. 
Lefever was particularly critical of Sen. Edward Kennedy's, D-Mass., recent visit to South Africa. Accor­ding to Lefever, Kennedy's actions were, "arrogant, hypocritical and cynical." 
Lefever said Kennedy used the "misery of other nations to advance his own political fortunes, at the same time embarrassing a friendly 
government." Seifert defended Kennedy to a certain extent saying, "The treat­ment and exploitation of a large group is a world concern." Lefever said he favors quiet diplomacy toward South Africa. "South Africa has made more prog­ress in the last four years than in the previous twenty." 

Social concerns seminar planned by CSC for Spring Break in D.C. 
By GERARD GOLDNER 
News Staff 
The Center for Social Concerns and the Social Concerns Commis­sion of student government are again sponsoring the Social Con­cerns Seminar in Washington, D.C. over Spring Break (March 16-23). This is the fifth year the one-credit seminar will be held. 
A group of approximately 24 stu­dents will travel to Washington during the week of Spring Break to study three main socio-political is­sues. 
The three issues for this year's seminar will be disarmament, labor, and American-Indian affairs. The topics of study were chosen by the Social Concerns Seminar Task Force on the basis ofboth importance and interest, said junior Julie Barrett, leader of the seminar task force. 
Although no formal itinerary has been set, because meetings depend on the availability ofpeople and the issues, students will meet with a va­riety ofreligious, political, and social groups and leaders, including each participant's congressman, other prominent government officials, and local Notre Dame alumni. 
As a supplement to-the Washing­ton visit, various preparatory ses­sions with resource persons as well as reflection sessions after the trip are held after the seminar in order to deepen the participants' under­standing of the three issues and to increase personal reward from the actual week. 
The objective of the seminar is to give individual students an educa­tional opportunity in the nation's capital in which they .can deepen their understanding of various socio-political issues, said Marcia Lemay, coordinator for off-campus programs at the CSC. Students will be able to meet with the people re­sponsi~le for the course Of govern­ment action as well as those who try to affect it, said Lemay. It is also hoped that participants' understand­ing ofthe political process and sense ofjusticewill be deepened, she said. 
Those who have shared the expe­rience of this program have found it both exciting and rewarding as a unique opportunity to escape from the frustrations of everyday clas­swork, said Barrett. Students also 



can learn firsthand about prevalent issues ofour time in the seat of gov­ernment, Barrett said. 
The seminar is open to any under­graduate student of any discipline.

NOTRE DAME AVE. APTS. 
Applications for the seminar are due Jan.31. The cost of the trip is approxi­
ROOMMATES NEEDED! 
mately S200, which includes trans­portation, lodging, meals, donations, and copying costs for materials. 

Boys and Girls 
•

• 
Call office 3-6 DAILY 234-6647
• 
Please 
I 
support the AMERICAN 
\)/CANCER
fSOCIElY$ 

.r----~~----------.---~------------~-----­
The Observer 
District 1 
(St. Ed's, Lewis, Old College, Holy Cross, Walsh, Sarin, Carroll, Alumni) 
Paul 
Healy 
220 St. Edward's 283-t708 
Attendence 
Resolution 113 
lncrrur In lhC' SIUdC'nt ActiviUrs frr from HO to '-'~ Sponaort:"d by Oliva. PASSf.ll 
Resolution 11 S 
Alhx:atlon of fund." to sc-naton to spon· sor e-ve-nts in the-~nawn' dl!itrtcts. Sponwrc-d by Browne FAII.EJ> 
Rrsolution 117 
Plan lo have all can parkrd in one lot durlnM Christmas break 10 prrvent van· dallsm and damage Sponsored by Oliva. PASSF.I> 
Resolution 119 
Endor~mc-nl of dlt' "l'm Driving Club." PASSEfl. 
Rrsolution 120 
Proposal to cnabltsh a student general store lO olft'r "K'cond label" llems at a 
low  COlt. Sponaorcd  by Browne.  
PASSEil.  
Resolution  

Votr to support publk naluation of Studrnl Scn~ron. PASSED 
Procedural Vote 

Wednesday, january 30, 1985-page 4 
Senate 
continuedfrom page 1 

one project in which he claims he was heavily involved, the Faculty Course Evaluations. "We worked on it since September of my junior year, and it was taken away because it was quote 'not the senators' job to handle the project,' " says Healy, who does not know who made the decision. "1 don't know. It was Rob (Bertino) that told me," he says. 
Healy, nonetheless, believes the senate "has gotten a lot accom­plished for the resources we've had to work with." But those limited re­sources seem to irk many of the senators as well. 
The administration "should give us a little more responsibility in trying to influence their views," says Browne. Healy agrees. "The admin­istration, I feel, is always trying to put us down," he says. 
Oliva is more blunt: "It's the CLC and Tyson who call all the shots." 
The possible restructuring of the senate offers Abood hope that the situation may change. "There's such a thing as overlap, and I think we have that now. There are several op­tions. lbe best is to condense the senate and give to senators more clout by lessening the number of people on the senate." 
Such changes also may correct the lack of notoriety that seems to go with the job. "People don't know what a student senator is," says Browne. "You don't get a whole lot of assistance. You're mostly alone in the job. I think it's a job that should be strengthened." 
Says McNamara, '"lbe only reason anonymity would bother me was if ideas were not getting to me, and that's my fault." 
But, he adds, "Your own personal accomplishments as an individual part of the senate are your lifeline. I know that 70 percent don't know my name, but when the lights go on at Lyons, they'll know someone did it." 

Meese still under fire from Senate members 
District 2 
(Stanford, Keenan, Zahm, Cavanaugh B-P, Farley) 
Pat Browne 
339 Stanford 283-2021 

District 3 
(Dillon, Fisher, Pangborn, Lyons Morrissey, Badin, Howard) 
Dan McNamara 
448 Morrissey 283-3674 
17/17  17/17  16/17  
YES  YES  YES  
YES  YES  NO  
YES  YES  YES  
YES  YES  YES  
YES  YES  ABSENT  
NO  YES  NO  

District 4 
(Fianner, Grace, Pasquerilla E. & W.) 
Tom 
Abood 
918 Flanner 283-t182 
16/17 ABSENT YES YES YES YES YES YES 
o 
T -SWrt shop. 

o 
Microwaves in South Dining Hall. 



District 5 
(Off-Campus) 
Javier 
Oliva 
2585 Bow Court 12 277-0726 
16/17 YES YES YES YES ABSENT NO NO 
o 30-mlnute, 60­minute passes at gate. 
o IDs to charge meals in Dining Halls. 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON Attorney General-designate Edwin Meese III said yesterday he has met "ethical as well as legal" standards of conduct, but a report made public at the insis­tence ofsenators concluded that he may have violated federal law. 
That finding was reached by two attorneys in the Office of Govern­ment Ethics, but they were overruled by the head of the office, David Martin, who was appointed by President Reagan. 
Martin informed the committee Jan. 24 that no ethics violation by Meese occurred, never mentioning 
the  staff report  which  became  
known  through  a  news  account  
Monday.  

1n 
'Ibe internal report by staff attor­neys F. Garty Davis and Nancy Feat­hers was made public as the Senate Judiciary Committee opened new hearings into Meese's fitness to serve as attorney general. 
Last year, the committee dropped action on Reagan's nomination ofhis longtime associate after indepen­dent counsel Jacob Stein was ap­pointed to investigate allegations concerning Meese's financial dealings with associates who later won federal jobs. 
Stein said there was no grounds to prosecute Meese, but Davis and Feathers drew a different conclusion when they reviewed his thick report. 
Daytona Beach 
Don't miss Spring Break at 
Proposal to transfer election and VOIC'· counting authorhy 10 thC' Judicial Coun· dl from Ombudsman. Sponsore-d by Zahn. FAII.ED 
Major Projects 
ABSTAIN 
o Leadership trainlng semi-oars. 

YESABSTAIN 
o 
Districtpicnic. o Lyons court Ughts. 

o 
Student store. 


• Late study 

o 
Began stu-space in South dent/rector re-Dining Hall. lations project. 

o Foodsales 

o 
Fonned dis-workshops. trlct advisory council. 



Students and officials battle over porn films 
America's hottest beach. You'll bake in the sunshine and sizzle in the moonlight. There will be concerts. games, parties, exhibi­tions. loads of freebies, golf, ten­nis. Jai Alai. sailing, surfing, fish­ing, motor racing and great night­life. Hop on a tour bus, catch a flight or set out by car. Just call a travel agent for free reservation service. Then pack a bag and head for the beach. 

------. -----------, 
~:::my Ire~~:~::' ~pnng ~~~:: Po~t:~----_::\:
5 

City _____ __ _ ___ ___ State _ l•p __ ~ : Daytona Beach Resort Area P 0 Box 2775 Daytona Beach. FL 32015 
-----------------~---------~ 
By PAT CONLIN 
News Staff 
lbe banning of pornographic films on Michigan State University's campus has sparked controversy. While the administration wants to stop these films, the student film companies want to keep the movies rolling. 
As of Monday, however, rooms reserved for scheduled pornograp­hic films have been canceled for the remainder of the term. 
Two of the top three student-run film companies on campus are Revolver Cinema and Box Office Spectactular, which show X-rated films. '!be only company ahead of these In weekly popularity is the residence hall company that shows first-run movies at no cost to the stu­dents. Revolver shows the "hard core," triple X films, while Box Of­fice Spectacular presents cult films and "soft core" pornography movies. 
According to Darin Greyerbiehl, director of Revolver, "Students want to see them -they are a form of en­tertainment. Most come in to laugh ­it Is not some steamy room filled with panting students." 
Moses Turner, vice president of student affairs at MSU says he feels differently. "This issue-the showing of pornographic movies -has had such strong demonstration of con­cern for so long that it occurred to me that It would not be unreasona­ble to ask those who were showing the movies not to do it." 
Greyerbiehl and Bob Murawski, director of Box Office Spectacular, disagree with Turner. According to Murawski, "There is pressure from only the very vocal Woman's Coun­
cil. They have picketed films -not in great numbers, never more that eight or ten women. It is not even every week. They only picketed one film last term." 
"Other than an occasional letter to the editor, the only pressure is from the Woman's Council," said Greyerbiehl. "I think it is unfair of, him to single us out. He (Turner) is cutting off a wide variety of films that could be shown." 
Turner said he does not think these movies are good for the atmo­sphere ofthe University. "It is within the principles of MSU not to engage in a student activity program that is abusive and degrading to any seg­ment ofour University community." 
"The student activity program is not enhanced by an organization whose sole purpose for functioning is to show X-rated movies. The basics for (Revolver Cinema) is to show X-rated movies." 
Both Greyerbiehl and Murawski agree if the administration con­tinues to block the showing of their films, the issue will go to court. The two say they feel they have some sort of legal censorship case against Michigan State. 
When asked whether such a thing could happen at Notre Dame, Stu­dent Body Vice President Cathy David said this could never happen publicly. "The showing of por­nographic films is not in keeping with the central idea of this Univer­sity." 
Being on the Beach isn't enough! 
MAKE 

DAYTONA INN BROADWAY 
YOUR 

SPRING BREAK HEADQUARTERS 
OCEANFRONT INN 
1Y2 blocks from Boardwalk Poolside activities, D-1-'s Fabulous new Checkers Cafe 
ONE FREE T-SHlRT WITH EVERY CONFIRMED RESERVATION 
(Non -refundable deposit) 
DAYTONA 
l]~~ 

DAYTONA INN BROADWAY 219 S. Atlantic Avenue Daytona Beach, FL 32018 
CALL TOLL FREE 
1-800-874-1822 
Wednesday, January 30, 1985-page 5 
New pro-freeze organization forms from previous Ground Zero group 

ByJACKIE RIZNER 
News Staff 
Ground Zero, a student organiza· tion designed to increase awareness concerning nuclear weapons is no longer in existence. 
The organization has evolved into Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Students for the Freeze. "Ground Zero ful· filled its purpose to raise the issues, but now it's time to move on," said senior Jean Nolan, a spokeswoman for the organization. 
Ground Zero was a non-partisan educational group which did not take a stand. FREEZE has assumed a well-defined position on nuclear weapons, ~aid Nolan 
"Ground Zero made people more aware and now it's time to take a stand," said Nolan. "We want to give a focus for the new information on nuclear armaments." 
FREEZE supports a bilateral verifiable freeze but wants to retain an educational aspect. "We hope to show people why we support a freeze," said Nolan, "something the old group was not able to do since it did not make judgments." 
The group's name was changed to FREEZE to signify its position to halt the production and testing of nu­clear weapons, said Nolan. 
"The name change was inevitable because the constitution of Ground Zero made it officially a non-partisan 

APPhoto
Mourning Black activist seeks to indict Goetz 
Associated Press said his office may not be able to play said he would meet Tuesday with
Fireman Dave Anastasio wipes his eyes as the death offellow 
any role in the case. the Rev. AI Sharpton, a black activist, 
volunteer fireman Donald jacobs is announced on a fire radio 
and possibly other black and

following an early morningfire at the l'MCA in Reading, Pa. Three 
NEW YORK-A federal prosecutor A grand jury on Friday refused to Hispanic leaders who want the
residents in the building also died, and more than a hundred 
said Monday he will meet with a indict Goetz for attempted murder federal government to use civil
people were evacuated in the blaze which officials called 
black leader who seeks prosecution but did indict him on charges of rights law to prosecute Goetz, who
"definitely arson." 
of Bernhard Goetz in the subway possessing guns illegally. is white, in the shootings ofthe teen­shootings offour young men, but he U.S. attornev Rudolph Giuliani agers, all ofwhom are black. 
Local MADD chapters push for stricter drunk driving laws 
By CHRIS SKORCZ 
StaffReporter 
In an effort to make the publi< more aware of the dangers of drun~ driving, Mothers Against Drun~ Driving chapters are becoming in­creasingly active in the Michiam area. 
With programs in St. Joseph and Elkhart Counties, MADD advocate~ the responsible consumption of al· coholic beverages especially in situ· ations where driving is involved. 
Kathryn Sabo of Elkhart, an active 
participant in her local MADD chap­who have yet to experience wide­states with different drinking ages," ter, knows firsthand of tragedies spread use ofalcohol." saidSabo. which can occur when drunk "As far as penalties for those con­people drive. Her 19 year-old On a much larger scale, MADD is victed, we are not directly involved. daughter Kristy was killed by a taking a major role in the political One item we do strongly oppose, 
drunk driver in August 1983. ' 
"Our group was started shortly after my daughter was killed," said Sabo. "We are primarily concerned with educating people. We have talked to high schools and organiza­tions ofall sorts. 
"If anyone is going to be affected by our programs, it's younger kids 


The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Submit applications to Anne by February 7, 1985 at 
the SMC Observer office. For more information, call 
239-5303. 
e Observer experience necessary_ 
YOU DRIVE (TO THE PARTY) 

$ 
94-5 per room 104 -4 per room 
INCLUDES: 
• 
Round tnp motor coach transportation to beautiful Daytona Beach (WE DRIVE Packages Only). We use nothing but modern highway coaches 

• 
FREE refreshments avarlobte on the motor coach on the way down (to begin the party) 

• 
E•ght Flondo days/seven endless nights at one of our exc1hng oceanfronf hotels. located r•ght on the Daytona Beach str1p Your hotel has a beaut1ful pool. sun deck. orr condrtroned rooms. color TV. and a nrce long sfretch of beach 

• 
A full schedule of FREE pool deck parties every day 

• 
A full list of pre-arranged drscounts io save you money 1n Daytona Beoch 

• 
Travel represe'ltat•ves to insure a smooth trip and a good time 

• 
Optional srde excursrons to Dtsnev World. Epcot. deep sea trshrng. party crUises. etc 

• 
AU taxes and trps 


Open to all ND/SMC students 
processes and decisions which per­however, is plea bargaining. We tain directly to drinking and driving don't want anyone to get off the issues. hook by any means." 
"We have written to our Con­Locally, in addition to various gressmen, supporting the proposed speaking engagements, MADD is bill to raise the national drinking age trying to prevent the sale of al­to 21. We sincerely feel that the coholic beverages at gas stations. Ac­raised age will reduce the number of · cording to Sabo, "Gas stations interstate accidents in the so-called should sell gas and other related 'Blood Alley,' the region between products. Alcohol is not 'related.' 
"We have also sponsored a pro­gram with a local cab company to of­fer free rides during the holidays to people who've had too much to drink." 
Currently, there are no specific support groups for the relatives of victims. "You need some real train­ing to talk to those people," said Sabo. "You almost need professional help. However, we do try to assist these people as much as possible through our Victim Assist--· pro­gram by which we help tl _.atives know where to go, who to talk to, etc." 

Additional semester requirements reviewed by ND Academic Council 
By MATTHEW C. DOLAN 
News Staff 
Additional course requirements are a change under consideration by Notre Dame's Academic Council. 
An additional semester course re­quirement in a social sci­ence/history, a one semester fine arts or literature requirement, a re­quirement in a foreign language and the need for increased use of com­puters in the various colleges were suggested by the University Curricu­lum Committee to the Academic Council. 
Students who served as consul-
YOUR BEST DEAL TO FLORIDA 
WE DRIVE (THE PARTY STARTS HERE) 
tr184-Sperroom ';J1194-4 per room 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION AND SIGN UP 
call 239-5136 or stop by 1.5 Lafortune, the Senior Class Office­Mon-Fri, 6-9 pm 
THE GREATEST TIME-THE BEST PRICE 
tants to the committee recom­mended smaller classes, more conference space in the classroom 
buildings,  better  faculty  role  
models,  and  more  funding  and  
facilities for cultural events.  

One of the recommendations of the 1982 PACE report to University President Father Theodore Hes­burgh was to establish a committee to improve the curriculum at Notre Dame. 
Provost Timothy O'Meara organ­ized the committee, to which fac­ulty, administrators and five students were appointed. Their 


sponsored by the Senior Class 
nuclear education group, very dif­ferent from one suppporting a freeze," said Nolan. 
Ground Zero folded because of financial difficulties and because some individuals wanted to work na­tionally on elections, said Nolan. 
Other individuals have dropped out of the group because of its new stance. One former member, sopho­more John Carpenter, dropped out because he felt he didn't have enough knowledge to take a posi­tion on the freeze. "I don't know enough about the issue to advocate , 
,
one way or the other," he said, "and I'm not sure a freeze is the most pru­~ dent thing to do." 
1 
1 
1 
., 
., 
report is now beingexamined by the Academic Council. 
The Academic Council consists of faculty, administrators, and student government Academic Commis­sioner Bruce Lohman. The members were asked to prepare a written response to 'the report. 
Lohman said he tried to solicit opinions of students but the response was very poor from the Student Senate and Hall Presidents Council. 
Lohman said, "The new require­ments would overload already over­loaded schedules for ROTC engineering students.'' He said the Academic Council will work to alle­viate this problem. 
FAMOUS LAST WORDS FROM FRIENDS TO FRIENDS. 
"Are you OK to drive?" "Whats afew beers?" 
"I think you've lw.d afew too many." "You kiddin, I can drive with my eyes closed." 
"You've lw.d too much to drink, let me drive.• 
DRNCING AND DRIVING 
CAN KU A FRIENDSHIR 




The Clbserver Wednesday, january 30, 1985-page 6 

---------~-----­
View~_o_i_n__t________
w_e_dn-es-da....

y,J-an-ua_ry-30_.1-98-5-pa-ge-7 

P.O.BoxQ 

Plows cause trouble in student parking lots 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to talk about parking lots, specifically about D-6 (behind the ROTC building). With all the snow, the University had the courtesy to plow the student parking lot, but, by plowing the aisles, it trapped most cars behind banks of heavy slush and ice. Many cars escaped through rocking and pushing, but many others re­quired shoveling and even towing. I wish the University would send its plows back to D-6 to make it navigable. 
DonaldSeymour 
Morrissey Hall 

Former Credit Union member speaks out 
DearEdt tor: 
Hats off to Edward Rowles. Following in his footsteps, and having been hassled one too many times, I went to the Notre Dame Credit Union on Monday and withdrew all my money. My money is now in First Source Bank, and I feel much better. 
I went in on Monday afternoon to get back my Exchange card, which the ma­chine had eaten on Saturday. The lady at the information desk sent me downstairs. The girl downstairs then sent me back upstairs. A different lady then sent me downstairs again. By this time I was quite upset and requested to speak to the manager. They referred me to a guy in data processing, who claimed to know nothing. Finally, I withdrew all my money and left. 
I guess my point here is we do not have to put up with S20 bounced-check charges, 21 -day holds on checks from our parents, long lines and broken teller machines. If more people realize this and take some action, maybe the Credit Union will realize that students should be treated the same as other customers who have the liberty of going elsewhere. Obviously it is impractical for many students to go else­where. But the Credit Union should not have such poor service and ridiculous rules and regulations because they have a 
monopoly on student banking. 
I know that my action is not going to 
change the way most students handle their 
money. I simply would like to point out 
that there is an alternative. First Source 
Bank has an office and a 24-hour teller ma­
chine at Saint Mary's, with additional 24­
hour teller machines on U.S. 31 at 
Cleveland Rd. and on South Bend Ave. near 
Ironwood, all of which are very close to 
campus. And ifyou stop to think of all the 
Credit Union's drawbacks it is well worth 
it. 

Dan Dressel GraceHall 
Administration uses donated money wisely Dear Editor: 
Once again, I read another Obseroer arti­cle attacking the administration. I am refer­ring to Charles Boudreaux's article about Father Hesburgh's appeal for donations. While I have not supported the administra­tion on other matters, I feel obligated to speak on its behalf. 
Boudreaux writes about the "audacious" and "monomaniacal" adminis­tration. He reacts as ifFather Hesburgh and the administration pockets these dona­tions. It is important to understand that these donations are spent on the univer­sity. Perhaps the new nautilus weight machines, the swimming pool currently under construction, or the Decio faculty offices were made possible through previ­ous donations. 
Moreover, Boudreaux is not satisfied with how these donations are spent. He wonders if it is reasonable to donate money to a university with a so-so financial aid program and no academic scholarships. While I wish the financial aid program was more generous, I am certain that aca­demic excellence is awarded financially. 
Quite simply, I am confident that the ad­ministration uses its donations with the interest of the University as its ultimate concern. For this reason, I see nothing wrong with Father Hesburgh appealing to our parents for donations. 
Paul Brady 
Grace Hall 
The Aggressive General and the Imperial Media 
The Sharon-Time case was unusual in having a superb judge and jury, a good brace of initial jury findings favoring Sharon ("False," "defamatory"), a good final verdict for Time ("no on libel"), along with a letter of admonition to the magazine about some ofits staff ("careless," "negligent"). 
In the end the general salvaged his personal and political war after the messy outcome of his Lebanon war. And Time salvaged its legal 
Max Lerner 
The Max Lerner Column 
position and to some extent · despite its wounds · its professional one. 
Yet while the legal problems were handled with skill by a judge and jury who should become a teaching model, it was the wrong forum and the wrong procedures. Wrong, I mean, for resolving the issues ofhistory, pres­tige and power that have become inherent in the operations ofthe Big Media. 
We now know that two ofthe six jury mem­bers held out on the question of"malice" criti· cal to the "libel." They felt that David Halevy, the Israeli reporter, was "out to get" Gen. Sharon. It was the jury foreman who argued them out of it and brought them around to a unanimous verdict. 
It suggests how personal a peg the legal case revolved on. But it also suggests how narrow is the base on which great issues depend in the dynamics of media power. 
Here was one ofthe prime journals ofworld prestige, giving an account of a massacre which had been depicted on TV in all liS hor:· roc, engraved indelibly on hundreds of mil­lions of minds. 
Here was an experienced correspondent reporting that Israeli's commanding general had "discussed revenge" with the Gemayel family the day after Lebanon's President, Bas· hir Gemayel, had been assassinated and the day before the Christian Phalange took its gruesome revenge. 
We cannot know how big a role the Time account played in the wake of the massacre story · the inner agony of the Israelis, the loss of confidence of the army and its leaders, the impaired trust of the American people and Congress in their staunch ally, the condem!la· tion of millions the world over. Certainly it was no minuscule role. 
Gen. Sharon, always an aggressive and abrasive figure not known for the fine restraint of his language, called it a "blood libel" on the Jews, thus joining his own honor and cause with the persecutions in the history of his people. Certainly the blood image was there, on the millions of TV screens which 
,
served as a frame for the interpretations ofthe 
,
print media. 
,
Time's report was based on the "confidential sources" that investigative jour­1,nalists use, their anonymity protected by First Amendment law. Halevy said it was "my evalu­ation, my analysis" that led him to his conclu­
1
sion about the conversations and their 
presence in Appendix B ofthe Israeli Commis­
sion. 

This is the perilous hinge on which the power ofthe imperial media and with it much of history turns. There has to be a better way than tortured legal concepts like "libel" and "malice" to serve as watchmen of the respon­sibility ofprofessional journalism. 
The print and broadcast media bestow their prizes and rewards on distinguished journalism. There must also be an agency of peer review that zeroes in on the cases where responsibility is imperiled. 
(C) 1985,LOSANGELESTIMESSYNDICATE 
If you have an opinion, why not share it? 
If you would like to respond to something you've recut in Th~ Obs~rver, wby not write a lener to tbe editor. Letters should be well· written, typed, no more tban 250 words in lengtb and must bear tbe signature of tbe au­tbor. Letters wbicb are notsigned by tbe autbor will not bepublished. 
Letters to tbe editor can be mailed to The Obs~rvcr, P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556, or delivered to ettber our Notre Dame office In LaFortune Student Center or our Saint Mary's office in Haggar College Center. 
The Observ~r reserves tbe rlgbt to edit all material submitted to tbe Viewpoint depart­mentforpublication. 

Editorial Board  Department Managers  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  (219) 239-5303  Editor-in-Chief. . . . . . ... Bob Vonderheide  Business Manager. .......... Dave Taiclet  
Managing Editor . . .  . .. _Mark Worscheh  Controller ..............Dave Stephenitch  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the  News Editor . . . .  . ... Sarah Hamilton  Advertising Manager ....... Anne Culligan  
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily  News Editor ............ Dan McCullough  Circulation Manager . ......... Jeff O'Neill  
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as  Saint Mary"s Editor ..... Anne Monastyrski  Systems Manager . ....... Mark B. Johnson  
accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion  Sports Editor. . . . . . . . . . . Michael Sullivan  Production Manager. ........ Chris Bowler  
of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column  Viewpoint Editor  ..... Dave Grote  Project Manager ........... Amy Stephan  
present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the  Features Editor . . . . . . .  . . Mary Healy  
community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters,  Photo Editor. . . . . . . . . . .  . .. Pete Laches  Founded November 3, 1966  
is encouraged.  



Jeff Bridges is heavenly as alien in 'Starman' 
Karen Allen and Jeff Bridges in "Starman" 

easy, but you didn't really believe her. Now, Mollie Fitzgerald's "On Campus Cook­book" shows Mom might be right after all. 
We aJI know that feeling ofdread when we see lunch lines growing across an artie quad or hear dinner's unappitizing thud as it drops un­ceremoniously onto our plates. From time to time, most of us decide the chilling trek from the dorm to the dining hall is not our 
r top priority.
r 
To quiet protesting stomachs,

r 
some of us will hastily grab chips
r
, and coke from foodsales or vending 
, machines. Maybe you will be lucky ,. enough to persuade Domino's into r making an emergency trip to r campus. Ofcourse if all else fails, r there is always The Huddle. 
r r But no matter how hard you try, you'll soon find Domers cannot live'r by Domino's alone. By the time
r 
r your finances start dwindling and 
r you hit fifth straight night of pop­corn casserolt:, you'll probably start counting the days left until break and your next real meal. 
Fitzgerald's "On Campus Cook­book" provides a delightful alterna­tive to the dining hall blues for busy
, 
college students. She presents 70 
r 
r 
r 
I 

Cheryl Green
r 
r 
r features staff writer 
r 
r 
r 
S
tarman? ...Stannan?
r 
Visions of a little blue guy

,. 
wrapped in aluminium foil running 
about the countryside shouting 
"Take me to your leader!" flashed 
into my head. Eagerly I awaited my 
chance to butcher this film in grand 
style. 
Much to my surprise, the movie was intelligent and amusing as well. "Starman," based on the story by Allen Dean Foster, is a well-acted 
'~ '~;· ~~ ',~~:;:,._ )1~ 
, 'J 
l' 

prepared in the comfort of your dorm using appliances most of us already have in our rooms; blenders, hotpots and toaster ovens. 
Fitzgerald conclusively proves your handy hotpot has more than one setting and can be used for more than boiling water. In a ft:w simple instructions, she tells you how to create onion rings, donuts, fondues and even candy · in a hot· pot. 
The "On Campus Cookbook" is well organized and written for people who have trouble distin­guishing between the refrigerator and the oven. It is primarily de­signed to help novices overcome their fears and develop confidence in the kitchen. 
In this helpful book, you'll find recipes ranging from the All· American, like oven-fried chicken to the elegent, like Caviar pie. Sweetooths will be particularly interested in the desserts section. Each of these dishes can be quickly and inexpensively prepared in the dorm and make innovative Valentine's Day gifts for someone special. 
For those ofus who are over 21, there is a briefsection at the end of the book providing a mini-course in 
/111/fl//!j
/, 

~
;; 
II
0t;;J/i 
I 

.. .­
film. It tells the tale ofa good 
natured alien who comes to Earth to study the peculiar habits of man. Upon entering Earth's atmosphere, his ship is shot down by the govern­ment, and crashes in upper Wiscon­sin near a beautiful young widow's home. Starman then enters her home and, by using a cell from a lock ofhair found in one ofher scrapbooks, he transforms into a clone of the woman's dead hus­band, Scott. 
gestions are terrific for Duke, not all of them apply to Notre Dame. It seems unlikely the University will provide boiled shrimp by the pound in the snack bar before Friday Happy Hours. 
Most dishes make enough for four or more which is a little too much for one person. However, the recipes outlined in "On Campus Cookbook" are perfect for parties, late night study sessions and pre· dance mixers. Ifyou follow some of the suggestions in the book before an SYR, you're bound to be the hit of the evening, even ifyour date looks like a mass murderer. 
"On Campus Cookbook" is useful to any college student, but makes a perfect gift for a hard to shop for senior. Soon enough, these lucky people will be out from under the protective glow of the Golden Dome and be confronted with the oh-my-God-1-have-to-cook-for­myselfdilemma. 
Whether you decide to pick up this book to impress a date, or simply to gain practical experience, you won't be disappointed when you taste the results. When you return home for break, your family will be dazzeled by your creativity. 
Mom will be proud. 

With his craft having been destroyed by the government, Starman's major problem is getting to Arizona, where a rescue party from his world will land. jenny Hayden, the young widow, becomes his reluctant guide and traveling companion, as he drives across the countryside to his des­tination in the desert ofArizona. 
The romance that grows between jenny Hayden, played by Karen Allen, and Starman, Jeff Bridges, adds to an already interesting plot. Jenny is terrified at first, and under­standably so. Starman is completely ignorant of the ways ofhumans. Gradually, by observing and listen­ing to jenny, he learns to speak, drive, and eat as an earthling does. jenny, in turn, learns from the alien. The mutual concern for each other's well being that develops during their journey blossoms into love. 
In all, I would have thoroughly enjoyed the film had there not been the deliberate allusions to Starman as a Christ figure. This annoying factor was not necessary to the plot, and consequently made the show seem like "E.T." rather than the fun science-fiction romance it could have been. Other than this one detail, the movie was filled with light humor and adventure. 
Sentimentalists will love the film, as it presents the romance between an alien and human as being plausible. Die hard sci-fi fans may, however, be a little bit disappointed with the special effects. In all, the comic moments and fast pace made the film a worthwhile investment of two hours. 

Quick,easy, inexpensive dishes for hot pots, blenders, and toasterovens. 
By Mollie Fitzgerald 
~-, 
...____.­
\ 

Richard Jaeckel plays hard-nosed government agent 


 
Wednesday,January 30, 1985-page 8 -9  
Double trouble for Moore in 'Micki & Maude' Shelli Canfield features stqff writer It's been awhile since "Micki and (Amy Irving), a curly-headed, Maude" first hit town, but we've slightly Bohemian cellist. been on break and this is my first chance to tell you about it. Ifyou To make a short story shorter, haven't seen it yet, hopefully I can Jack and Maude fall in love, and the convince you to do so soon. Even if next thing you know, Maude is you think that Dudley Moore is a going to be a mommy. jack has to wisecracking, obnoxious pygmy break the news to Micki ­he is (why do so many people find poor going to do the honorable thing and Dudley so offensive?), I'm sure marry Maude ­but when he meets  

I 
i 
l 
j 
I j I 
I 
you'lllike "Micki and Maude," and Micki in a restaurant to break the 
l• 
even feel some admiration -and news to her (why do they always 
Dudley Moore meets Amy Irving's father, H. B. Haggerty, and his wrestling buddies 
sympathy-for Moore's character. meet the lady they are about to give 
Moore plays jack, a television the boot to in a restaurant?), Micki prove that you can have your cake jack, however ,ends up seeing possibility ofhaving two. He got news reporter marned to Micki has some news ofher own to tell and eat it too. Micki on the sly behind Maude's what he wanted, didn't he? Babies (Anne Reinking), a rising attorney first: she's going to be a mommy He secretly marries Maude, back. We don't exactly have a one galore, eventually, and two wives 
l ~ 
who hopes to be elected to judges­and isn't that wonderful? remains Micki's husband, and lives woman man here, and the next instead ofthe usual one. Here is a hip. jack wants a baby, Micki just Here we have a slight problem, with both on a (strenuous) thing you know, he is seeing Maude man that took the unconventional wants her career. One day, while and when we see the wayjack is schedule ofshifts without either on the sly, too. We're right back road and made it work for him. interviewing a group ofcellists for going to handle it, we can't help but woman finding out. Naturally, such where we started. Maybe he didn't do it completely his news report, jack meets Maude make him our hero. He is about to an arrangement leaves a great deal O.K., O.K., I never promised you out ofchoice, but he didn't wimp 
ofleeway for humorous problems. a realistic portrayal ofAmerican out on us and just choose one lady One example occurs when both family life. But who needs that, and regret it later. women have scheduled appoint­anyways? What we have is a cast of It's not that I'm supporting ments with the same obstetrician talented people having a good time polygamy (I'd better make that and he is expected to attend these making us laugh without losing the clear here, before I get kicked out appointments with them. As un­essential con sciousness ofthe ofschool), but if you think about it, believable as this scheme may be, it good actor, who never sacrifices his it certainly worked for him! works-for awhile. Neither woman believability just to have fun on the finds out about the other until the set. The humor is also distin­If you like to go to movies purely very last minute when, at the same guished, partly because of the for the enjoyment-if you don't time, they both go into labor and subtle off-beat irony that prevails really get into finding hidden jack runs right along beside them throughout and makes us see that meanings and metaphysical both as they're being wheeled into we are witnessing creative, clever relevance to the universe and all the delivery room, holding their wit that manages to be tasteful at that stuff that makes movies hands and reassuring them as they the same time. One example that sometimes seem more like furiously cuss him out. struck me as particularly off-beat homework assignments than rec­
There he was,doing his best to do (and thus, in my opinion, funny) is reation -"Micki and Maude" is your the right thing and be there for both when jack goes home with Maude kind of movie. Lighthearted of them by running back and forth to meet her father. He expects to comedies are fun, especially when endlessly between their hospital meet the man whom Maude has they really are funny rooms, and what does he get for his described only as a pastor. What he There are no car chases (Jack, upon trouble? The two women who get does not expect to meet is the big, finding that he must rush to the together and decide that he is a bald professional wrestler the size delivery room and wrecking his car worthless bum who doesn't deserve ofa Greyhound bus. If jack had any on a speedbump in the process, is to see their children. thoughts about backing out ofhis forced to steal a little kid's bike and 
just when you thought it was all marriage plans, you can just bet peddle furiously uphill to the hos­fun and games, things take a slightly they went straight out the window pital), no air-brained teenagers or serious turn. jack wants more than in the formidable presence of this their bonehead parents saying and anything to see his children, so he is massive bruiser. doing predictable, mindless things, forced to climb up to Micki's room Furthermore, you can't help but and no four-letter words trying to 
(with a rope) and crawl in the like jack. Here is a man who is smart pass for comedy. "Micki and window. He is caught by Micki, is enough, open-minded enough, and Maude" is, though light, intelligent informed that Micki and Maude are adventurous enough to see the comedy that really merits the friends now, and told that they have senselessness in limiting oneself to laughter it received the entire two 
agreed never to see him again. just one person when there is the hours I was in the theater. 
~ 
Keaton shoots for your funny bone as gangster 
1 
!• 
• 
l• 
i 


' pure enjoyment' describes the 
gangster comedy film "johnny Dangerously" starring Michael Keaton. The film is a spoofofold gangster movies, with a few 1980's puns and jokes. Not intended to have deep philosophical meaning, the film lightly satarizes the mafia in 1930 New York, offering laughs every moment. 
Michael Keaton is the star ofthe show, a comic crime leader who expands and diversifies his mob, even offering a dental plan for mem­bers. His rival is joe Piscopo, as Danny Vermin, a no good character who wants to run the mob himself. Vermin constantly plots and schemes to take sole control of the mob. 
Also essential to the list ofcharac­Johnny's girlfriend, Lil. johnny spends much ofthe movie trying to win the affection ofUl, and being the 'macho' man he is, eventually does win her over. 
Maureen Stapleton, playing johnny's mother, also makes an excetional appearance, it is for her various 'much-needed' operations that johnny first becomes involved in crime. little does she know of her son's actual occupation, however, until johnny's brother, Tommy, the assistant District Attor­ney, sets out to breakJohnny Dan­gerously's mob, and discovers that Johnny Dangerously is actually his brother.Johnny is sent to prison on a bum rap, but through a series of hilarious events, is pardoned from his sentence. 

lacks in plot and story is made up every mishap, but Keaton's perfor­'Johnny Dangerously' is a fun film for in wit and humor. Some ofthe mance remains witty--perhaps it is. to see, if not for pure enjoyment jokes get old, such as Vermin's 'they because one can hardly imagine the then just for a break from the 
~ 
ters was Marilu Henner, who plays The film moves quickly, and what only did it to me once' saying after comic-looking Keaton as a gangster. humdrum homework routine. 
The Observer Wednesday,January 30, 1985-page 10 
The Ohserr•er Notrt· IJaml' onKT. lot·alt'd on till' third floor ot l.a~ortunt· Student Ct·mt·r. a..:n·pts da"itkd advl'rlising from') a.m. until ·I p 111.. Monday through Friday The Ohsert•er Saim Man·'s officl'. lot·al<:d on tht· 1hird floor of Haggar Collt'ge Cl'nll'r, a..:n·pls dassifkds !rom I . .!:.~0 p m. unlil -~p.m .. ~1on­da,· though friday Dt'adlinl' "" nl'XI-day da"ilinls-is 5 p.m. All dassilinls must he prepaid. t•ithn in person or hy mail_ ( "hargt· is I 0 lTnts pl'r fivt' charac­
Classifieds 
tt·rs erda · 

LOST Hh1nes1one necldace on Sat. nlghl, MAKE MONEY !I SELL YOUR CLASS ro Kevin "Old enough lo pee, old enough Dear Mike: lhe 19. PLEASE HELP !!!! BOOKS TO PANDORA'S FOR $$ OR tor me" Lulhringshausen, HAPPYNOTICES $$$$REWARDS$$$ Call Cindy at 272-WANTED CREDIT ! PANDORA'S BOOKS,937 BIRTHDAY!! L & L Thank you for doing the honorable thing 6064 SO.BEND AVE. 233-2342. and freeing this gem from your unholy grasp. We will forever be indebted to you. 
································································ 
................................................................
WANTED, TO BORROW: One atring In appreciation toSt Jude for the answ"'­
WordproceasiJia and typiJia-272-8827. HELPI REWARD! LOST MY baea,I01U..k-Revue. REWARD: OAR HOUSE: COLO BEER & UOUOR, ing of special intentions. May all know the The Men of Notre Dame. CHRISTMAS GIFT' I LOST MY LADIES CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N.,
uveral Ravuatlckatal Makayourbaea power of his prayers. 

GOLD WATCH FRI. NIGHT, POSSIBlY ONE BLOCk SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
a celebrity today.
NEED TYPING, CALL DOt.OfiU :rn-AT THE SUBURBS CONCERT PLEASE ................................................................ 1041 CALL WANDA at4058.HELP! TO THE DLS GRAD, TOO BAD YOU'RE -Don't CrOIIS ME!
NOT A REAL MAN ... BUT HAPPY 20TH PICK UP N«J DEUVIIn' ANYWAY. "ASMC(CHS)CHIC" 
Needed: one roommate to live O.C. next 
year in a 6-room house ... Rent: $80 plus 
-HA, HA, HA,I 

utilities ... To quality you musl be a Sun YoFio&B.O. :O.C.1stheplacetobe next 
................................................................ LOST: Blue NO Bag.Contains 2 Sharp Belt-type person who hates lhe winter and year. ................................................................ TYPING CALL CHRIS 214-4t17 calculators (scientific and solar). pencils loves the beach and suri ... Must like to lie­ODE TO KATHY MARTIN: "Beware of Next lime remember-
the Queen of Spades Her black widow's ............................................................... Halla,Gatvin, or Stepan Chern. on Call25n and ask for Le ... 
curse might find you yet Beware of a love TYPING AVM.Aal: December 21 .Prove me wrong that NO thai you will regret Her love means only 
students are thieves and return to NO Loet your dealh"-Styx LOVE, YOUR ACE OF 
and pena.Loet probably al Dining ten to the Beach Boys and Jan & Dean ... 
IT'S RYSER, OR IT'S WRONG !!!!! 

2ff1-4012 and Found or Call Tom at 1 524 after 1 Oam NEED RIDERS TO PENN STATE SPADES
I 
MWF or after 2:30pm on weekends.

I SPRING BREAk IS COMING ........ ARE
LEAVE: FEB. 1st I YOU READY?! AVOID THE RUSH AND ON MARCH 15, 1965 AN EVENT TICKETS: TWO tickets for
Need lhe PLAN HOW FOR A WONDERFUL COULD OCCUR WHICH WOULD Syracuse game. I need lhese 
I 
Loet: A pair of NIKES (Mid-tops) Basket­RETURN: FEB. 3rd or 41h 
WEEk STEAMBOAT despe<ately!!! My girffriend is corning up
TYPING ball shoes. White wilh blue and red IN SPRINGS, CHANGE THE COURSE OF HISTORY. 
and will kill me (not lo mention lhings she 

stripes. Last _, at lhe mens locker CALL BRIAN AT 3499 or 3200 COLORADO ... S. PADRE 15-THE MARTIANS COULD LAND. PRESI­
WON'T do ) n I don'l gel lhese tickets.

I JACKIE BOQOS room at the Rock. «found please call Cliff LAND.... CORPUS CHRISTI ... OR, DENT REAGAN COULD RESIGN. FA­al 1436. THER HESBURG COULD BE
DAYTONA BEACHI PLENTY OF PI-help out a fellow Domer who PACKAGES CANONIZED. Well, we really don't know 
~713 REASONABLE ARE hasn't seen his beautiful girffriend in a 
long, LONG time!! Call Dan at 2275 today' WAITING. CAll RENE FOR MORE ff these evenls will lake place, bul we do 

• 
LOST: Jan_ 15. Bluewalletw/GADriver's Riders needed to Cleveland for !his INFO. AT 1190. know lhat THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES license, militaty 1.0. and olher valuablas weekend. Call sean at 2n-3953. BOARD WILL BE OFFERING TRIPS TO ................................................................ in or around Corby's n Bridget's. Need FT. LAUDERDALE AND DAYTONA 
I just love typing 

SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS appli­desperately' Call Kerry McMonigle, SMC ANDI, We love you. BEACH! These quality trips will include 
'l 
cation ~ina ia February 1. More info at 4322 St Patricks Day Celebrations, scuba
• ...............................................................Center for Soci-' eonc.n-.1 diving, baseball, and endless fun activi­
HIGGINS : You're a g<r-mn disaace!

ties all for $299 and $199. respectively.
AIDE NEEDED Call SAB or inquire at the Record Slore tor 
I• 
You're just worlhless and week Now drop GOVERNMENT JOBS $15,000 -Larry, You say all lhe right things. the more information. and give me 20!1 What do you want lo do $50,000/yr. poe111ble NA occupationa. Loved one 
with your life anyway? Remember-AL­Call 805-68HKJOO Ext. R-9834 for infor­
LOST: One Tl30 calcultltor wilh lhe name COHOL ABUSE IS NOT PRETTY I!
If you are going to I.U. Bloomington this 
mation_ Kevin Camblin very sloppily saatched on FATHER HESBURG,
PRINCESS 01,
weekend, eilher 2/1 or 2/2 and returning
it. I could of sworn I had it Physics Lab so ROBERT REDFORD AND EVERY

2/3, pi-call Louisa at 1330.

eilher lhe hallucigens are still wor1<ing or Who you gonna call-FLO-MONSTER!!
OTHER CELEBRITY OF WHOM YOU 
lhe girl next to me picked it up by accident. "AJI freshmen BTe to be eaten_" CAN THINK ARE GATHERING ON Anyway, call Kevin at 2103 If found. 
MARCH 15! WHERE IS THIS GATHER­FUN AND HARD WORt< WITH KIDS AS 
RIDE NEEDED ING GOING TO TAKE PLACE? FT. CAMP COUNSELOR. YMCA STORER 
................................................................ 

LAUDERDALE AND DAYTONA BEACH! 
CAMPS IS CARING, CHRISTIAN COM­Loet: Gold and blue add-a--bead necklace. as time goes on, the angry young copy HOW CAN GET MUSIC REVIEW????? Give me a break.
YOU THERE? 

MUNITY SERVING KIDS 7-17. UNIQUE Very sentimental in value. «found call editor loses his coot! 
THROUGH THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES Why don't you call It what il really was-a PROGRAMS: HORSES, AQUATICS, Lauraat2732. REWARD. BOARD. It is always possible that the music OPINION. Thats all it was. just the SAILING, WILDERNESS ADVENTURE, AIDE NEEDED TO COLOMBUS, stars could cancel !heir gathering, but personal opinion of two individual
If you need it, we have it. 

INTERNATIONAL EMPHASIS. FOR FUN, QUALITY AND PRICE make il Dornara. There was no basis for fact be­
WEEKEND. CALL FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: worthwhile to go anyway. Call SAB or lhe hind thoae lists. If you're going to take the ANN WIEDEMANN AT~ Christmu Break. To claim call Mike at 
FooNo~·:\··~:~·;;i;;i;'i~·A':c:c:·;;;;;;;;~ OHIO/OSU THIS 
NORMA2808. If we don't have It, you don't need If. 
Record Store for more info. lime to review lhe year in music, at least 2122. 
include the real top perlorrnars of lhe 

................................................................ year. Whe<e was "Huey Lewis & lhe News 
to

AN..OFF:ciAMP'us..iiOWLiN<l''LiAGue ................................................................ FOR SALE If inte<8111Bd in going Nash­TOASTMASTERS! Meeting tonight! -Sports" on lhe top albums oflhe year?
villeNandertlilt weekend of Feb 16, callIS BEING FORMED ON TUESDAY LOST MAROON AND GRAY PLAID 6:30! 223 H-H! Be there! Ollie & Jerry's "There's No Stopping Us"Mark at 1638 8llrly in morning or late atNIGHTS AT 9PM. CALL 28~5379 OR WOOL SCARF WED IN LAFORTUNE 
as a top Bingle?? Give me a break!!! 272-o734 FOR SIGNUPS AND INFOR­OR THURS. MORNING IN SOUTH 
night.

v-oo··w-AHT..iT..i..oor"iT"v;;··:ik,pj;y
MATION. DEADUNE IS SATURDAY, DINING HAll . PLEASE CALL 21 16. 

SMC Ann and Holly The never endingFEB.2. 
disl<s only $1.5 Gall me-JOHN 3592 nightmare of Pangborn freshmen -lhe Yo Flol You're getting your letters allWe need a roommate for next year ... 
................................................................ 

Cabbie wrong. The key letters for next year are

Great DC house... You must love !he sun­LOST: GREEN SWEATER IN CUSHING, 
F-OfiSAi:E:vAM'AHA.S:siAtNG":iuM80 shine(sopmelhing don't in not RA., but ralher D.C. _ll's where you
we haveROOM 208 IF FOUND, CALL JOHN AT belong!!!

2196 NO QUESTIONS ASKED FOLK GUITAR (MODEL FG-34511). Like SB) ... A collection of Beech Boys and 
(UP) CHUCK! EVEN THOUGH YOU HIT 
,__Case included. $20()_ Call234-1067 Jan&Dean albums is a must ... catl Le at 
ME WITH A ROCK WHEN I WAS FIVE ................................................................
.iOE··;;um··is"2ii''Ti:XiAv:·iie"iiA5..A be'-1 9:00 am and 3:00 pm_ Aak for 2mfor further info 
PUT SARDINES IN MY SLEEPING BAG SENIOR SKI TRIP TO SUGAR LOAF 
SHOWER IN HIS ROOM. STOP BY AND iouiW;··Si~·~·;;g·-·a;·~..;;; Jim_ 
(TOO BAD THEY WEREN'T ALIVE) MOUNTAIN!! SPOTS STILL AVAILABLE ASK HIM HOW rT WOAKS. U.. WMicerld. C.. John at 20153 and 
CRAZY-GLUED MY SILVER DOL1.AR MARCH 1 ,2,3 $25.00 DEPOSIT SENIOR 
lclemlfy to delm. 

Foo.SAi:E:'.Ri~;M·,NDER..DF.sri:io"S: TO THE BATHROOM FLOOR, FORCE CLASS OFFICE-1.5 LAFORTUNE FRANK SINATRA ~ not write tor FED ME MY UMA BEANS AND MADE MON-FRI6-9. ,............................................................... -but you can. The Viewpoinl
BALL TICKET BOOK. CAll ANNE AT 
Viewpoint ME ASK FOR MORE EVEN THOUGH
1884.
LOST: A ladies' Pulaar watch wilh a blue 

department is currently seeking regular YOU CHEATED WHENEVER WENEEDED: Red Nby gr8rld piano band and a gold face. Loel sometime columnl81!1. If you are a Notre Dame or PLA YEO "TWISTER" I'M HAPPY BEST TIME-BEST VALUE: WHERE:equipped wilh C-400 outboard motor, for Friday afternoon. If found please call Lisa Saint Mary's student and can expresa you YOU'RE MY BROTHER CAUSE YOU'D BEACH!! SPRING
F-;;;···;;;;,~····Ae:;····;;~;;;;;;;···:;;iih....~~i~ DAYTONA WHEN:
KMOBn Revue.~: 181/eral hundred at2996. 

opinions dearly, VIewpoint needs you. If MAKE AN UGLY SISTER I HAPPY 20TH BREAK '85. WHO: ALL ND/SMC STU­
winder,no lense.very good condition
Revue tix. Make your 1natrument famous. 

interested call Dave Grote at 239-5303. LOVE, LITTLE SIS DENTS. CALL 23~5136 OR STOP BY
Send pW1o In manit. envelope only to $180; call VIc 234-6715 after 10 p.m. 
SENIOR CLASS OFFICE, 1 .5 
Room602KMOBn. 

................................................................ LAFORTUNE, MON-FRI, 6-9pm . iii8ii' ~d;;'C3i:C'': '2'&;-;;;:·c:;;·o;;;;·: ANNE STUBBS You are THE goddess of SUB and White Body & Engine In Good Shape -$3000.
HUNGRY? CALL THE YELLOW LOST: A IIIKII Siberian ................................................................ cheerleading! Keep on shaking baby! ONCE UPON A TIME ... Ihere was a very Your tan Irom section 106 HEY SANDY ISERN, HAPPY 2tST!II WE 
272-4453 FREE DELIVERY MO-TH 8-Huaky. Aoa I montha. Weighs 45-150 Call234-2308 after 5PM_ 
cold kingdom called DOMERLAND. All of LOVE YOU, THE HORNDOGS 1lpm FR-SA 8pm-tarn pounda. AMwwll to U.. name 
lhe subjects ot lh8 kingdom wished !hal ................................................................
"SHINDIG". Loat on 1-27-851nU..­

lhey could move !heir land to a warmer KATHY RAVOTII You are THE goddess
ol Eaat Navamo SIJWL II apottad, lo­

climate. Movement of lhe kingdom was of ~eading! PI-move back to my GREAT ESCAPE '85-II was a succesa! 
Girls--can't live with'ern... can't ahool catad, 01lound ~call Daveat 232­

TICKETS deemed impoeaible by lhe highe< aut­side. Keep on shaking baby! Your fan Maureen, Muffin, John, Debbie. Marl<.'ern_ 0739. 
horities, so lhe STUDENT ACTIVITIES from section 106 John, Julie Ann, Ramona, Paul, Eric, BOARD devised a plan. They determined Sam, Kim and Julie -thank you tor all to send as many of lhe subjects as possi­your halp -JA
Riders needed to tow. S-(or U. of LOST Single Strand PEARL NECKLACE 

ble to Ft. Lauderdale and Daytona Besch JOHN-Thought lhe male/female ratioIowa, or Dee Moi.-. or. __) lhia weekend. PLEASE. PLEASE Gall Jodie 16691 
«inter8111ed, C2JI John at 2483. HELP! Need 3 Syracuse vs ND tickets. for the low prices of $299 and $199 was lhree males lo one female, not four ................................................................ respectively-To di110011er how lhe story females to one male. Gol any beads left? HI TICKLE T'S! YOUR FORTUNE 
Please call Terry at 1991! 
ends, call237-n57 or contact lhe Record Someone told me Father C. wanl8 you to COOKIES SAY: LIFE IS EITHER A LOST Bleck trench ooat at Corby's on Store at lhe La Fortune. give him some more. Why -eall those DARING ADVENTIURE OR NOTHING 
Ia anyone (IOing to the University ollowa Jan_ 14. lthedallofmyi.D.slnitsopleeM 

people ouf in the hall? Congratultlte AT ALL SOMEONE LOVES YOU lhia weekend? I need a nda_ Please call return as soon as poeaibte. R-d of­BIG BUCKS need 4 SYRACUSE stud tix 
................................................................ Claire-she won her bet' When do we hil
Margie SMC 4294. fered. Call Kay at 2903 or 2939. call Mark XI 204 DO YOU KNOW who the "LEADER IN the Morris IM? ENTERTAINMENT" is? It ia the Student WANTED: FEMALE ROOMATE FOR Activities Board. SAB is offering a trip to ................................................................ D.C. CALL POZ 2295
-The hottest chick north of Havana!! HELP!! If I don't get two Syracuse GA'a.l'll 
DAYTONA BEACH!!! Do you like tun and CHRIS "STUD"-u~ much?
""'''''"'"'''"'''""'"''"'""V''''''''"'''''''''''''' 

lose. P'-call Chuck al 1565.Mom and 
Three buBi.-rn.jon, 1nduding Kolin parties in lhe sun? Then call237-n57.
Dad are jetting in from lhe coast, so
wilh a "K" requ.-1 lh8 pleaure ol your JIM from HOWARD-Ihanks for lhe dance
LOST: MY SANITY!! CAN BE FOUND IN money is trivial. 
company at a aoci-' --nglhia Friday CON-I don't even usa taiaontl Saturday night-cute loga-have a good 
I 
COLUMBUS, OHIO AT QSU_ IF YOU 
In room 129 Aiurnl'll. No engi,_;ng Help educate a child who is unable to lffe-Mary from PW
CAN HELP ME GET THERE THIS 

fMjon need aftened learn himaell! Join lhe Neighborhood
WEEKEND OR ANY OTHER Study Help Program and tutor in the MARDI GRAS WEEKEND, PLEASE CAll NORMA AT 

Thla ad llpon8orad by lhoee sexy I NEED TWO KEENAN REVUE TIX FOR Soulh Bend community. We need tutors, ANN
2808. THANKS!! 

furniture dancera at lh8 McCandiMs THURSDAY OR SATURDAY. WILL PAY We need you! Many times available. MARDI GRAS I HAVl Beech party (one party ie never enough MEGABUCKS_ CALL 3584 IF YOU CAN Transportation provided. Call Debbie COME TO THE CONCLUSION THAT 
for those SMC chick&) HELP_ Doherty-3563, Annie Shau~hneaay -MARDI GRAS YOU ARE SO DUMB I COULD SELL
LOST pr. of SALOMON SKI BOOTS in d1

t 
4234, or Seymour Pigott-1 580 for more YOU DIRT. 
student lot Mon. afternoon_ Call Mark at info. It's not)uat a job, ll's an adventure! MARDI GRAS 17871n312 Dillon. THANKSI!! 

Loet: Wild pizza cup beheved lo have f-'­Go.AiiEAo:·MAi<e.Mv..oAvi'i·;;;;;;;i·;··ti~ len out of a lh1rd l1oor LaMana window. 11 for BYU or Wash_ Malt 3718 DANA EARL BAkER,
MARDI GRAS BAINBRIDGE, found pleeM call Jan Farrell 1 TT7. Wanted: One date to the tri-mil ball. Must BIU 8ARTLETT, JENNIFER IIGOTI,
FOUND ON .1ft CLAS8 SKI TRIP: 


be ove< 6 ft. tall wilh dar/< hair_ AFROTC CINDY BOYLE, CAROL lllftOWN, UZ need not apply. Call Susie CARROL, MARY DALUM, ANNE GAL­
ONE PAIR OF RED I SKI SUNGLASSES 

LAGHER, JOHN GIAS, MATI -··-·,:.;:o:·~·;;;.:;M;d'i·G;;;;;·,~·;;;;;;;;;oiii····· GRACIANETTE, KRISTI HEFT, 11011 
a-S-.ey, Hope you don't mind If I 
keep "tagging along" on Sunday nlghta­PLEASE CALL JOHN AT 1150. 

HENKE, VERA HIUEGAA, KATHY good friend now. Have fun at your SYR 
February 8th & 9th HUIIII, IWIII STEVENS, BYRON .00 the "Tri-Mil," and hey lhenka for lhe ................................................................ STEVENS, AND SCOTT VAN PELT· 1.-.kle ,_ on my ..xt victim. I'm MARQUETTE Need a nda? 2/1 -213 I'm ~ -Shtrtay In The ot»erver worldng on rt...Stil loYe you. THE FUZZY going. Share usual. catl B08 x4074 ASAP. UTTLEBUNNY. Mardi Gras Dance-A-ThonPERSONALS The Campaign beglna: JIM "AGENT OR­He'a deed meet on Sunday FOR RENT ANGE" OLIVER FOR U.M.O.C. Start feeturing: saving your pennies! 
lt'a kind ol addictive. BeoldM. I need a you are ICUm. Love, Pete 
Tha Darlger Bros. MAGGOT I wouldn't My lhia ad WASN'l tor you 
LOST/FOUND 

Ni;;...h.~··t:.;;;;;,··;;··;;;;i··;;;;;;;;i HOLv..CROS8.AS50CiArEs·.··~: Friday, February 81h
For anyone who ca-ee about N.D. : A yew. :rn-3604' tion DEADLINE: FEBRUARY 1 HH CHANGE IS COMING!! 
.:osr:·N·:o:··FiUGiiv"i:ETIEri.:iA<i£T: BLOOMFIELD HILLS BOUND? 
BlUE AND lilAC!( WITH NAME ON ................................................................ 
................................................................ INSIDE POCKET. MISPUCED AT male rooom>a~a _,ted to share apal1-Buzzard Aw.d WI-: n you would tllu! lh8 ""'"'*'Y ot two BRIDGETT'S TUESDAY EVENING OR menl, CAMPUS VIEW APJS_ call 2n-Airband/TIIent Conleet femalee tor the trip lhia weekend and to EARlY WEDNESOAY MORNING. 4833 
Lillie Kings and lh8 statement "I won't lhare expenaee then call21381 PlEASE RETURN , NO QUESTIONS paaaout" Big Prizes ASKED. CALLJ.R. REIDAT277-7!!81. 
wAN-Teo:·'A-·R'OOMMATii··;:a··SHAFie 
MARDI GRAS Weekend CAMPUS CRUSADE lor U.. CLAVE 

APARTMENT 2A, AT NOTJ!E DAME 5AiiE''"MO'NiYii..·;;;uRCHA8E'"'voofi APATMTS. BLDNG. 832. RENT OF TEXTS AT PANDORA'S BOOKS,937 Sign upe start on Friday in lh8 Dining Halla Who atiU participalee In Billy carxMimu ONLY 105/MQNTHLY. CALL JOE SOUTH BEND AVE.,NEXTTO CORBY'S rttu• ??? What South Bend needs ia lhe MCSRIDE AT 283-1723 BAR 233-2342. Sunllllnall Join lh8 Clave today m 
-------------------------~ --~-~---· --~---~----------------­
I 

Wednesday,January 30, 1985-page 11
Sports Briefs 
The ND Men's Crew Club will be meeting for 
practice today at 9 p.m. in the ACC. -The Obseroer 
A cross-country skiing clinic for advanced 
skiers is being held tomorrow at 7 p.m. in room 218 of the Rockne Memorial Building. Anyone interested should register today at the NVA office in the ACC. · The Obseroer 
The ND Windsurfing Club will be meeting 
tomorrow at 7 p.m. on the first floor ofLaFortune. For more informa· tion, call Tim at 287-8264.-The Obseroer 
Pat Sullivan, general manager of the New England Patriots, will be a guest speaker in the Notre Dame Law School tomorrow at 2 p.m. Sullivan will discuss "How Highly Compensated Individuals Negotiate Contracts" during a session of the Sports and Entertainment Law class. The talk, in room 110 of the Law School, is open to the public. -The Obseroer 
Apool tournamentis now being organized. Anyone who is interested may sign up by Friday in the pool room in the basement of LaFortune. -The Obseroer 
FOR RENT 
furnished, 3 bedroom home washer & dryer close to campus 

4 Roommates Needed 
Only $125.00 each 
call287-0148forapt. 


Aerodynamics  Computational Fluid Dynamics  
Aeroelasticity  Computer-Aided Design  
Bioengineering  Propulsion  
Combustion  Structural Dynamics  
Structures-Composites  

Individual Tuition & Fees are $1,452 per calendar year. Total financial aid per calendar year: $13,452 Center of Excellence in Rotary Wing Aircraft 
Fellowships $14,452 Lockheed/Georgia Tech Research Assistantships $ 7,500-Research Assistantships 
$10,000 
All graduate students will participate in research. For further information contact: Dr. A.L. DucoHe, Director 
School of Aerospace Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology Atlanta, Georgia 30332 (4Q4) 894-3000 

The ND women's track team is looking for volunteers to help at its home meet on Friday. Anyone who is inter­ested should call Patty at 283-4072 or Anne at 283-2646. -The Obseroer 
A cross-country skiing touris being held sat­
urday by NVA. The deadline to register at the NVA office is Friday. ­
The Obseroer 
An interhall wrestling tournament is 
being sponsored by NVA. For information, contact the NVA office at 239-6100. The deadline for entries is Feb. 13.-The Obseroer 
NCAA basketball tournamentticketsfor the Southeast Regional games to be played at the ACC on March 14 and 16 will go on sale soon. Season-ticket holders may purchase tickets beginning Friday. Students may purchase tickets with the general public beginning Feb. 1 1. -The Obseroer 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Thursday until 4 p.m. at The Obseroer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Briefs must be clearly written. -T/Je Obseroer 
Sullivan 
continuedfrompage 16 
out a strong contribution from him over the remaining 13 games this season, Notre Dame will not last long in the NCAA Tournament -if, in fact, it reaches the tourney at all. 
There's no need for anyone to feel sorry for Kempton -boos come with the territory for major college bas­ketball players. Still, if anyone cares about whether the Irish play strong, consistent basketball, he will realize that he is just hurting the whole team by picking on Kempton. 
Face it. Kempton will get some shots blocked. He probably won't have any thundering dunks. He will miss some uncontested layups. But he will also help Notre Dame make a good showing in the NCAAs. 
Correction 
It was reported incorrectly in yesterday's paper that Notre Dame strong safety Joe Johnson had agreed to try out with the Tampa Bay Bandits of the USFL. He is currently in Florida trying out with the USFL's Jacksonville Bulls. The details of the contract are correct, however. 
The Obseroer regrets the error. 

Freshman Wisniewski succeeds in early season Irish wrestling action 
By BRIAN McCARTIIY 
Sports Writer 
In the freshman year, most stu­dents have enough problems trying to get situated in the academic and social atmosphere of Notre Dame. To bear the additional responsibility of starting on a varsity athletic team sounds intimidating. Yet, freshman wrestler Ron Wisniewski has more than met the challenge, posting a 22­9 record thus far. 
Two of those wins came last weekend in the National Catholic Tournament held at Seton Hall. Wis­niewski finished as the runner-up in the 134-pound weight class while the Irish squad as a whole took second place in the tournament. 

Ron Wisniewski 

Compared to most college wrestlers, Wisniewski got a late start in his wrestling career. He had never wrestled when he entered Mus­kegon Catholic Central High School in Michigan, but he decided to give wrestling a try. 
"Where it started was that my uncle wrestled in college," says Wis­niewski. "And he started me in wres­tling freshman year." 
He won only two matches that first year, but through year-round dedication he made remarkable im­provement. He lost only one match his senior year and was runner-up in the Michigaq. state tournament. He was co-captain and MVP of his team and was named to the all-city, all­conference, and all-state teams. 
In addition, Wisniewski was the AAU Junior Olympic Champ and a two-time member of the Michigan Junior National Team. 
After high school, Wisniewski contacted Notre Dame to express his interest in wrestling for the Irish. Once on campus, he was prepared to contribute to the team. 
"I was pretty confident that I could start," he says. "But I didn't know how succussful I would be." 
His success has exceeded even Head Coach Fran McCann's expecta­tions. 
"We're really pleased with Ron's performance," says McCann. "His record is good, especially for a fresh­man." 
Crucial to Wisniewski's success has been his willingness to learn and improve. He praises McCann and as­sistant coach John Azevedo for the guidance. 
The coaching has been real good and has helped me 100 percent," he says. McCann agrees that Wis­niewski was not developed as a wrestler when he arrived, but credits him for quickly adapting to the college level. 
"Ron was raw when he came in, and he still is," says McCann. "But he's making the adjustment and is 
getting  more  confidence  each  
week."  
·The 1984-85  season  marks  the  

beginning of a new era for Notre Dame wrestling, one that hopefully will bring a national reputation in a few years. So far, however, wrestling at Notre Dame does not enjoy a large following, but Wisniewski sees that changing soon. 
Billikens 
continuedfrom page 16 
The 6-5 Brown had his high of 23 points early in the season in a I 01-88 double-overtime victory over Black­burn on Nov. 28, but is only scoring at a 10.6 pace for St. Louis. However, his 5.4 rebounds per game is second only to forward Calvin Norman. 
Norman hauls in an average of 7.0 rebounds a game for the Billikens, as well as scoring 10.4 points. Norman led St. Louis in scoring and rebound­ing more times than any other player last year, and is probably the most , consistent player on the team. A tough defender, the 6-6 senior has started in 12 of the 13 games he has played in. 
At center is 6-8 senior Abdur Rahiim AI Matiin. Although AI Matiin is shooting at a 53 percent clip for the Billikens, he doesn't shoot very often, averaging only 6.8 points per game. At 27, AI Matiin is orie of the oldest college players in the country. He transferred from North­eastern Oklahoma A&M Junior Col­lege last year after spending five years in the Army. 
Off the bench most often are 6-1 junior guard Kevin Williams and 6-7 
"Coach says that it will be more in the spotlight year after year," he says. People just haven't gotten wind ofit yet." 
Being more in the spotlight will mean more home meets and pos­sibly hosting the National Catholic Tournament in the future. The strong freshmen will be the building blocks for developing a program that can compete against national powers such as Iowa and Oklahoma within a few years. 
The key to the growth of the Notre Dame wrestling program is a strong committment from the ath­letic department, and McCann believes there is that support. 
"We have a commitment from the University," says McCann. "It's our job to make it work. The support helps recruiting and gives the kids confidence." 
With another strong class ex­pected next year, the wrestling pro­gram is gaining speed. If Ron Wisniewski's determination and success are any indication, a national reputation will belong to Notre Dame wrestling sooner than ex­pected. 
freshman forward Dale Renken. After scoring 8.9 points per game last season, Williams has slumped to 
3.9 a game, shooting only 40 percent from the field. Renken is both a good leaper and passer who retained his freshman eligibility when a stress fracture to his right foot put him out for the year after only four games last season. 
Six-five sophomore Paul Jansen and 6-6 senior Rick Williams are swingmen who play substitute roles for the Billikens, as does 6-7 sopho­more forward Redditt Hudson, who hits 54 percent from the field. 
The Billikens play good team defense, although not as good as last year when they allowed a conference-leading 62.8 points per game. Still, the 10-5 Irish, with a frontline that includes 6-7 Donald Royal, 6-8 Jim Dolan, 6-9 Tim Kempton and 6-1 0 Ken Barlow, shouldn't have much trouble over­powering and outbeefing St. Louis tonight. 
AMERICAN~ 
CANCER
~
• SOCIETY~ 

-~--------~-------~----~~ -~ 
The Observer Wednesday,)anuary 30, 1985-page 12 
Sullivan becomes number-one foilist for fencers 
By MICHAEL). CHMIEL Anne O'Connell ( 9-6) to graduation, squad as well as some new talent. "The women's team is really going Sports Writer the Irish are looking to rebuild a For the present, however, the to grow. Coach DeCicco hopes that strong women's team with youth. Irish will rely upon the experience we'll get more people and that the After losing three starters and However, the loss of freshmen Mic­and ability ofSullivan. The North An­people we have now will improve so three other monogram winners helle Madon before last season and dover, Mass., native joins the Irish that the women's team could com­
~ from last year's 13-5 squad, the Pia Albertson (37-2) after last season with some eight years offencing ex­pete with the men's team record-Notre Dame women's fencing team to transfer has sidetracked immedi­perience. In her rookie season, Sul­wise." was left relatively depleted. But the ate and genuine strength for the livan is optimistic about the squad's A five-year veteran of the Tanner Irish were able to secure freshman present. future. City Fencers Club, Sullivan was a 
Molly Sullivan, who has since According to Irish head coach Junior Olympic champion for the become their number-one foilist. Mike DeCicco, Notre Dame is prob­"I think that this is a really good under-I6 division. She also has won After losing co-captains Sharon ably a year away from realizing the team," said Sullivan. "They were two national titles in 19-and-under DiNicola ( 28-16 in 1984) and Mary success it is after. In a year's time, willing to improve, so they were foil during the last two summers. In Shilts ( 22-21 ), Kathy Morrison ( I I· DeCicco hopes to have a more­happy to have me there to help I982, she represented the United 5 ), Carole Gerard ( 1 0-7) and .Jo experienced and helter-prepared them. States in Switzerland as one of three foilists on the Women's junior Olympic Fencing team. Last year, Molly Sullivan
Georgetown drops to second 

she represented the United States when Leningrad hosted the says DeCicco. "I would rank her in springtime junior Olympics. the top five in the country. She is a
St. John's moves into APtop spot 
This year, Sullivan is trying to very talented athlete who will make the Junior Olympic team for definitely make a run at the national Associated Press points in moving from fourth to 636 points after victories last week the third straight time in a series of title while she is here." third. over Michigan State and Kansas. qualifying events. The women's team is off to a 5-2 St. John's, which ended Geor­Georgetown had held the top spot North Carolina leads the Second "Right now, I'm in fourth place for start and is expected to be competi­
getown's 29-game winning streak from the preseason voting through Ten, followed by Tulsa, DePaul, the juniors," Sullivan says. "They tive throughout the season. Sullivan last weekend, overtook the Hoyas nine regular-season polls. Oregon State, Louisiana Tech, take three, but with one more meet, realizes that experience is needed for the top spot in The Associated Southern Methodist, which suf­Nevada-Las Vegas, Maryland, Vil­hopefully I can still make it." for this young squad, and she Press' college basketball poll Mon­fered just their second loss in I8 lanova, Kansas and Alabama­Thus far in the I985 season, Sul­believes that the team has a good day. games this season Saturday at Texas Birmingham. livan has compiled an 18-2 record to shot at the NCAA tournament in the 
The Redmen, I5-l, defeated the Tech, 66-65, fell from second to AP Top Tw.rty lead all women fencers. After going spring. Hoyas 66-65 Saturday at the Capital fourth in receiving I,OI6 points, 28 The Top Twenty college basketball teams in The 6-0 against Harvard and MIT to "It's just a young team," says Sul­
Associated Presa poll, with first-place votes in paren­
Centre, where St. John's has won more than Illinois, which switched livan. "A lot of the people don't have
theses. this 8888011'8 records and total points. Points begin the season, she slipped a little three straight games against their places with Duke. based on 20-19-18-17 etc~ Notre Dame opponents at Penn where she was 2-2 in a meet the experience of competing. I've are italicized.
Big East Conference opponent. Oklahoma is seventh with 850 that the Irish lost by a score of 2-14. been competing for eight years 
It is the first time since December points, followed by Georgia Tech, 1. Sl. John's (52) 15-1 1249 Against Cornell she was 2-0, and compared to some who have been 2. Georgetown (10) 18-1 1202
1951 that the Redmen, who were one of two teams to jump eight against Princeton and Temple she competing for one or two years.
3. MemphisSt.(1) 15-1 1130ranked third last week, have held the places in this week's poll. The Yel­4. So. MethOdist 16-2 1016 went 4-0 in each meet. "I think we could make (the 
top spot in a weekly poll, according low jackets, IS-3, received 7I6 Sullivan chose Notre Dame over tournament). I'm not exactly sure
5. Illinois 17-4 968 
6. Duke 14-3 867
to the school's sports information of­points in moving from last week's 7. Oldahoma 15-4 850 Penn State and North Carolina be­how well we would do once we got fice. No. 16 ranking. They beat Clemson, 8. G80fgia Tech 15-3 716 cause she liked the school overall there, but I think we could make it." 
9. Syracuse 12-3 698
St. John's received 52 of 63 first­64-59, and North Carolina, 66-62, and was impressed with its fencing Following a weekend of junior
10. Michigan 14-3 636 place votes and 1,249 points from a last week. 11. North Carolina 14-4 521 program and campus. After a rough Olympic qualifying action in Califor­12. Tulsa 16-2 499
nationwide panel of sports writers Syracuse received 698 points in period of adjustment to the col­nia for the freshman foilist and a
13. DePaul 13-4 457 
and broadcasters. Georgetown moving from IIth to ninth place, 14. Oregon St. 14-2 426 legiate lifestyle, she has settled weekend that saw the team unable received IO first-place votes and while Michigan, 18th last week, 16-2 281 . down and is leading the team with to participate in an Ohio State tourn­
15. Louisiana Tech 16. Nev.-Lae Vegas 15-2 275
1,202 points in easily outdistancing joined Georgia Tech in the long 17. Maryland 16-5 274 good confidence. ament due to the weather, the wo­Memphis State, which received the jump category. The Wolverines, I4-18. Villanova 13-4 227 "Molly comes to us with a great men fencers will be in action once 
19. Kansas 15-4 197
other first-place vote and l,I30 3. rounded out the Top Ten with 20. Ala.-Birmingham 18-4 160 deal offencing experience already," again Friday at Wayne State. 
' 


STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD The leader in Entertainment presents SPRING DAY '85 7 sun-filled daysI 8 romantic nights FT. LAUDERDALE DAYTONA BEACH St. Patrick's Day Celebration Fun Times Parties Parties White Sox Baseball Optional trip to Disney World Parties Wildly discounted prices The Hockin' Alumni Van Free beer at pool side Parties Parties all at the world famous All at the party hoppin' Sheraton Yankee Trader Plaza Hotel $299.00 $187.00-$199.00 Informational meeting: 7:00pm Thursday, Feb. 7 LaFortune LiHie Theatre  

The Observer Wednesday, January 30, 1985 .._page 13 
Giomi dismissed from squad 
Knight speaks out on radio show 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. · Leading rebounder Mike Giomi, benched the last two games for poor play, was dis­missed from the Indiana University basketball team yesterday for aca­demic reasons, Coach Bob Knight said. 
Giomi, a 6-7 junior forward averaging 9.5 points and 5.3 rebounds a game, was one of four regulars, including leading scorer Steve Alford, who were benched in Sunday's 52-41 Big Ten loss at Illi­nois. Knight angered fans and alumni in that game by starting four fresh­men. Giomi and another starter, Winston Morgan, did not make the trip. 
Knight, in a news release issued by the university sports information of­fice, said Giomi lost his basketball scholarship last summer and was playing this season as a walk-on. 
"When Giomi's scholarship was taken away last summer because of academic deficiencies that had oc­curred throughout his first two years, he was told ifhe chose to con­tinue attending school on his own, very specific conditions would be placed on his academic perfor­mance in classes if he were to be a member of the basketball team," 
Knight said. 

Knight added that he had "learned that Giomi has not fulfilled the aca­demic requirements that were placed on him and therefore I have no choice but to separate him from the team." 
Assistant Sports Information Director John Johnson said Giomi's grade-point average could not be released_to the public. 
"He would be eligible by institu­tional (Indiana University) stand­ards and by the NCAA standards," Johnson said. "These are simply standards that were set for him by _ the coaching staff, and he did not meet them." 
Giomi's troubles, along with those of Morgan, surfaced Jan. 19 when Knight refused to let them fly home with the team after a loss at Ohio State. 
The coach had said Monday night that he "got on them pretty good" for their play and didn't want "to keep pounding on them" all the way back. 
Giomi and Morgan flew back with Athletic Director Ralph Floyd and then did not play in a 62-52 loss at Purdue on Thursday. 
There had been no indication of 
Introducing 
CAMPUS SHELL 

VALENTINES SPECIAL Drawing for 1 dozen roses to be given away Feb. 14. No purchase necessary. 
2 Liter Coke .89c w/gas 1 dozen ex. large eggs .49c 2 percent milk $1.99/gal. Butternut Bread .95c 3/iter R.C. Cola $1.69 2 packages cookies $1.00 Party crackers .99c 
lib. bag chips $1.89 
Cigarettes $7.88;carton (carry generic brand) Windshield concentrate . 79c (makes 1 gallon) AND MORE TO COME! 

Oil change special: $14.95 Includes up to 5 qts. 10 W-40, oil .filter, lube, 32 ounce Colts mug 
OPEN 24 HOURS 7DAYSAWEEK 


415 Dixieway South (At Toll road Entrance) 
277-7929 
MASTERCHARGE AND VISA 


Giomi's academic problems when Knight answered criticism on his weekly radio show Monday night on station WIRE in Indianapolis. 
"I think there comes a time that somebody needs to be jolted a little, and if jolting them doesn't get them playing to what their potential is, then they've got to think about drop­ping out ofit or playing somewhere else," Knight said. 
"Consequently, I didn't even take Giomi and Morgan on the travel roster to Illinois simply because they didn't show Friday and Satur­day in practice that they played any better. It's such a simple thing for me; ifyou play well in practice, then you'll play in games. I've never operated any way else." 
Indiana scored just 12 points in the first half against Illinois and went on to lose its third straight game, fal­ling to 11-6 overall and 3-4 in the Big Ten, and dropping out ofThe Associ­ated Press Top Twenty for the first time this season. 
Knight said he regretted benching Alford, a sophomore guard who was a member of his 1984 Olympic bas­ketball team after being Indiana's most valuable player last season. He is averaging 19.5 points a game this season. 
Women's basketball team attempts to return to winning ways at Butler 
ByLARRY BURKE 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's basket­ball team will be looking to get back on the winning track tonight as it begins an important week of North Star Conference games with a 7 p.m. contest at Butler University's Hinkle Fieldhouse in Indianapolis. In the next seven days, the 8-7 Irish will play three conference games, the outcome of which will give a solid indication of whether or not Notre Dame has what it takes to win the NSC. 
The Irish should find the Lady Bul­ldogs to be very accommodating hosts tonight, because it is quite ap­parent, at least on paper, that Butler is no match for Notre Dame. The Lady Bulldogs, in their first season of Division I play, are having a tough time, but still have managed to surpass last year's victory total with a 3-10 start this year. Last season the Lady Bulldogs were a dismal 2-20, so it came as no great surprise to first­year coach Russ Sarfaty when he was hired last May to help Butler make the jump to Division I in somewhat respectable fashion. 
The Lady Bulldogs are now 1-2 in conference play, after downing Xavier, on the road last Friday, by a score of 73-63. Before that, Butler dropped games against Dayton and Evansville. 
Forward Sue Morris is Butler's main weapon, and while the Lady Bulldogs haven't made any waves in the NSC as a team, Morris has been among the conference leaders in scoring, rebounding and free-throw shooting all season. Friday night against Xavier, the 5-11 senior poured in a career-high 30 points, 24 ofthose in the second half, as But­ler registered its first NSC win. Mor­ris is currentlyaveraging 16.8 points and 6.8 rebounds per game. 
"Sue Morris is a very, very talented player, one of the best in the North Star Conference," notes Irish coach Mary DiStanislao. "She's really been the backbone of their team so far this season, and she's really starting to come on for them. In her last three games, all in the conference, she's averaged 23 points a game and she's shot 62 per­cent from the field. So she's definitely the kind of player that could hurt us." 
Unfortunately for Sarfaty, there isn't much of a supporting cast on hand. Freshmen Pam Schiefelbein and Melissa Kilgore have been the most productive, averaging 8. 7 and 
7.0 points per game, respectively, and junior guard Denise Walters ranks among the conference leaders in steals, but the overall balance of talent needed to be a competitive team is not there. 
One of Butler's major weaknesses is on the boards, where they areal­most always outdone by their oponents. Center Jill Muensterman, a 6-1 junior, and forward Christine Essington, a 5-8 sophomore, haven't done their part, and the lack of rebounding has spelled trouble for Sarfaty's troops, preventing them from developing an effective transi­tion game. The team's other major weakness is outside shooting, an area in which only Morris and, to some extent, Schiefelbein, have had any sort ofsuccess. 
"We have to regroup our forces and think about 
how to attack this team." 
-Mary DiStanislao 

"Butler's not a very strong team inside, although they did fairly well in beating Xavier last week," says Notre Dame assistant coach Greg Bruce. "They've also shot just 39 percentfrom the field, so they're not a very strong outside shooting team, although Morris can always hurt you, and Schiefelbein is a decent shooter from the wing. 
"They don't have the athletes that we do. We're a quicker team. For that reason, we should be able to use our transition game against them, and we should be able to extend our defense and make the game a little more up-tempo." 

The key to establishing the transi­tion game is gaining control of the boards, something Notre Dame was unable to do in Sunday's 72-64 loss to DePaul. 
"We'll be looking to improve our rebounding this week," says Bruce. "We didn't get the offensive rebounds that we needed against DePaul, and that hurt us. The key is agressiveness -we need to be more agressive on both the offensive and defensive boards." 
DiStanislao may use tonight's game as a chance to experiment with some new lineup combina­tions. With the team coming off a sub-par performance at DePaul, juniors Denise Basford and Lynn Eb­ben and freshman Sandy Botham could see more playing time tonight at the expense of seniors Laura Dougherty and Carrie Bates and junior Trena Keys. 
"We have to regroup our forces and think about how to attack this team," says DiStanislao. "We have to come out agressively, on the boards and especially on defense, and we have to start exerting pressure on our opponent on both ends of the · floor." 
Although Notre Dame rates as the favorite in tonight's game, it was not that long ago that Butler held the up­per hand in this series. Three years ago in Hinkle Fieldhouse, the Lady Bulldogs scored a 67-58 victory over the Irish, and the year before that Butler registered a 60-51 win in theACC. 
Notre Dame picked up its first win in the short series on Dec. 3, 1982, as Ebben came off the bench to score 22 points and grab four rebounds. Mary Beth Schueth added 14 points in that game, while Dougherty and Ruth Kaiser added 12 apiece and Bates netted seven points and pulled down 1 0 rebounds. Dougherty set a then-school record with 12 assists in that contest (a mark which Basford eclipsed last year with 13 against Detroit). Morris, Butler's only re­turning player from that game, played all 40 minutes, and had 11 points and eight rebounds. 
IRISH. ITEMS -Last Friday's postponed contest with Loyola has been resheduled for Tuesday, Feb. 26 at 7:30p.m. CST. The Irish were unable to make the trip to Chicago for that game because of inclement weather.... The time for the wo­men's Feb. 9 game against Xavier at the ACC has been changed to noon, because the men's game against Syracuse will be played at 3 p.m. to accomodate television. . .. Schueth could become Notre Dame's all­time leading rebounder tonight if the senior has a big game; she is just 15 boards short of Shari Matvey's standard of 745 set between 1979 and 1983. . . . Stats update: Keys 
( 16.0 points per game), Bates ( 13.2 ppg.), and Dougherty (9.2 ppg.) are Notre Dame's leading scorers thus far, while Keys (82) and Schueth 
(81 ) lead the team in total rebounds and Dougherty and Mary Gavin are tied at 49 for most assists. 

The C>bserver Wednesday,January 30, 1985-page 14 
Returns from academic probation 
Spencer will contribute to squad 

By ERIC SCHEUERMANN 

Sports Writer 
When Barry Spencer arrived at Notre Dame in the fall of 1980, Irish basketball fans expected a great deal 
him. The 6-7 forward had received mention on numerous high school all-America teams after an outstanding career at Detroit Catho­
Central High School. He had played very well in the prestigous McDonald's All-American Classic, scoring 13 points. 
After a freshman year in which he learned from then-senior forwards Kelly Tripucka and Orlando Wool­ridge and a solid sophomore year that included starting berths in 20 games, he appeared ready for much more success in the coming years. But problems in academics would prove to shorten his promising career. 

"I have a tendency to think that I kind of let myself down," says Spen­cer. "But I think that my experience here has been better than any I could have gotten anywhere else. 
"When I decided to come to Notre Dame, I said to myself, 'I can't really lose. I'll get a chance to play baskethall and get national expo­sure, and I can get a degree in archi­tecture.' That's falling into place for me right now and I feel really good about it. So, I don't regret anything." 
After his impressive sophomore campaign, Spencer decided to take a year off from basketball to concen­trate on his architecture studies. This still left him two years ofbasket­ball eligibility. 
"Since I wasn't able to take as many hours as my classmates during the first two years," he says, "I thought my junior year would be a good chance to catch up and get ahead." 
Spencer was back on the Irish squad in the fall of 1983 and gained a bit of playing time, but was ruled in­eligible for the spring term because of unsatisfactory grades. He remained on academic probation through this past fall semester, and finally gained permission from the University to resume basketball in late December. 
Although discouraged by the long layoff, Spencer discovered another side of Notre Dame basketball that he had not seen as a player. 
"At the time of my probation, I didn't feel too good about it," he says. "I had a tendency to get down on myself. But my friends here really helped me during those times. 
"But the time away from basket­ball helped me see that there are things on the court that go on that you do not observe ifyou're not out there practicing every day." 
"He just put himself in some jams academically," says Irish head coach Digger Phelps, "because of frustra­tion with basketball, as well as frustration with academics. I just really respect the endurance he had to keep going after the architecture degree." At the present time, however, Spencer is concentrating on helping the team as it enters the 

Barry Spencer 
second half of the season. He showed what he could do at Maryland last Saturday, coming off the bench to score five points in the final minutes of the first half before finishing with 11. 
"Spencer really played well against Maryland," says Phelps. "He just played hard and was very ag­gressive. He was our bright spot. 
"Now it's just giving him the playing time to see what he can do. We're halfway through the season, and I think he can help us out. If he can keep progressing and help us out, which he did Saturday, then that's a plus for us. That's what this team needs." 
Spencer hopes he can continue to help the squad wherever he is needed. 
"I'm just happy to be playing again, to tell you the truth," he ex­
Domino's Nights at ACC 

Now, besides the good basketball and free admission, there is an­other reason to attend the upcoming Notre Dame women's team's home games. 
Domino's Pizza will sponsor a pizza-eating contest, which will take place at halftime of the games. The semifinals will be held on Friday, Feb. I, when the Irish women take on Evansville at 7 p.m. and on Saturday, Feb. 9, when Notre Dame faces Xavier. 
Finals of the contest will be held on Sunday, Feb. 17, when Notre Dame hosts Detroit at 2 p.m. Domino's will be giving away painter's hats and cups during games, and a drawing will be held for a pizza coupon. 

plains. "I guess that's where a lot of my aggressiveness comes from. It's been a long time since I've played and it makes me really hungry just to get back out there and play hard. 
"I just look at my role as one to help where I can," he continues. "I hope I'll get the chance to contrib­ute. Since we've got 13 tough games coming up, Coach Phelps realizes that we're not going to be able to beat everybody with just seven or eight guys. So I think he's going to go to the bench a bit more. 
"It's obvious to people that we need some help inside. We've got to have inside scoring to win, and I think it's really just a matter of atti­tude. You need to believe you can get the job done in order to get it done. 
"Even if my role is just to help motivate the guys, then that's what I'll do, because one way or the other it's got to get done." 
Phelps believes Spencer can help out in ways other than with his play on the court. 
"He's not a captain for us," says the Irish coach, "but I look at him almost as a graduate assistant who can also play. He's the only guy who's experienced an NCAA tourna­ment, and he just really helps us a lot with leadership." 
The only thing that has surprised 
Spencer since his return to the team 
has been the amount ofplaying time 
he has been granted. 

"I didn't really expect to get going this early," he says, "but I got a chance to play a little in the Rice and Creighton games. just to get back out there on the court, I could feel it was what I'd been yearning to do. Now I'm getting more and more comfortable, and it feels good." 
Yet even though Spencer is back in an Irish uniform again, the ques­tion ofwhat he might have been still lingers in many people's minds. Phelps has a quick answer for ques­tion. 
"I think Spencer is being what he wanted to be," he says. "I don't think people realize how difficult that ar­chitecture program is. To be a student-athlete majoring in archi­tecture -that's a tough grind. But he's going to graduate with his degree in architecture, which was a priority for him." 
Spencerechoes the same thought. 
"I've kept sight of my goal, and now I've gotten this far," the senior says. "Nowit's down to 13 weeks un­til graduation and I'm checking off the weeks." 
Maybe Spencer's last 13 weeks also will be filled with some good basketball. 
I 
'lbe Observer/Pete l..achcs 

Barry Spencer, seen here in action against Providence Monday night at the ACC, bas regained his basketball eligibility for the spring semester after suffering through almost a two-year layoff Eric Scheuermann features thefifth-year seniorforward at left. 
r-------Wednesday, January 30 -------. 
BEACHPAR'IY 
free draft to anyone In shorts or bathing suit 
Thuroday, January 31 

GRIZZLY PROMO 
$1 Grizzly's all night & shirts, mirrors, prizes 
Friday, February I 

25' BEERS ;,:t%{ 
Saturday, February 2 
HAPPY HOUR 
50' 14oz drafts 
75' G& rs 

montgomery® 
will conduct interviews 
TUESDAY, FEB. 27 & WEDNESDAY, FEB. 28. 
Career positions in vertical transportation MARKETING/ MANAGEMENT will be discussed with degree candidates in BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION. For more information about Montgomery and our future visit to your campus. contact your placement office. 
montgomery~; 
ELEVATORS ESCALATORS POWER WALKS & RAMP..; 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER 
Montgomery Elevator Company, Moline. lll1n01S 61265 Montgomery Elevator Co.. L1m1ted. Toronto. Ontano M9B3S5 Offices in rinc1 I 1 i 
This week at the EngineeringAuditorium  
FORYOUR  I  
A FISTFUL OF DOLLARS  PLANT NEEos ~'t\s 1  
Thursday 7:00, 9:00, 11:00 ROCKY  0Gp$DIAL283-4242  iI  
Friday and Saturday  Mon ­ Sat 12:30 ­ 5:30 I  
7:00. 9:15. 11:30  


~t(Jt.:JlC3L~--------------------------------------w--e_d_n.es_d_a_y_,J_a_nu.a_ry
__3_o_,_1_98•5----p-ag_e___15 

Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
Campus 
•12:10-12:55p.m.-SMCArtNoontalks, 
"A His­tory of Medieval Tapestries," Prof. Marcia Rickard, SMC, Room 232 Moreau Hall. 

•3:30-5 
p.m. -Career Workshop, "How To Decide On A Career," Joan Mcintosh, Career Counselor, Career & Placement Services of the Memorial Library, Sponsored by Career & Place­ment Services, Free. 

•3:30 
p.m.-Seminar, Dr. Andre Deprit, National Bureau of Standards, Washington, D.C., Room 356 Fitzpatrick. 

•3:30 
-4:30 p.m. -Computer Minicourse, Macintosh Wordprocessing, Room 104 CCMB, Free & Available to the Public, Call 239-5604 to Register.


Jeff Millar & Bill Hinds 

•4:20 p.m.-Physics Colloquium, "Magnetic, Su­perconducting, and Transport Property of Some 
•

Artificial Superlattices," Dr. John Kenerson, Northwestern University, Room 118 Nieuwland. 
•4:30 
p.m.-MicrobiologySeminar, "What Crick­ets Hear," Dr. Harald Esch, ND, Room 278 Galvin. 

•4:30 
p.m. -Chemistry Department Reilly Lecture, "Organo-f-Element Chemistry -New Homogeneous and Heterogeneous Catalysis," Prof. Tobin Marks, Room 123 Nieuwland. 

•6: 
15 p.m. -Circle K Meeting, Center for Social Concerns. 

•6:30 
p.m. -Meeting, Notre Dame in Mexico,


Berke Breathed 

Foreign Study Program, For Interested Students Who Have Not Yet Applied, Center for Social Con­
The Far Side Gary Larson 
cerns. 

•7 
p.m.-Basketball, ND Men vs. St. Louis, ACC Arena. 

•
7 p.m. -General Meeting, Hispanic American Or­ganization, Room 2-D, LaFortune. 


TV Tonight 
7:30p.m. 16 Barney Miller 22 WKRP in Cincinnati 
28 Wheel of Fortune
V/6/{.11~, 6/f.? : 5N!f"H;: 
WHfiT PIP HE 5/tfEU5 U!t$., 

8:00p.m. 16 Highway to Heaven 
8€1/T rH!M i!N!I'F.I: 

22 Charles in Charge
WITH ·' ~ 8/6 5t.A6 Of 

28 Fall Guy 
34 Francesca da R.imini 8:30p.m. 22 E.R. 9:00p.m. 16 Facts oflife 
22 Special Robert Kennedy & His Times 28 Dynasty 9:30p.m. 16 Sara 10:00p.m. 16 St. Elsewhere 
I IXfW{.I),tiF... 


How entomologists pass away 
28 Hotel 
39 Fleeing 50 Ms Kett 
The Daily Crossword 
41 Heir 52 Goose egg 44 Fall for 53 Sp. ninny 42 Certain 5 Fleeing 45 Like: suff. 54 Lat. love 
ACROSS 
academy 46 Composer Franz 55 Tilt1 Short dwelling? 
43 Koch and 6 Sun-dried brick 47 Perfume 56 Great deal 6 -of bricks Sullivan 7 Volcanic rock 48 Soap or spot 58 Short road 10 Unit for a 
44 Danish 8-of one's 49 Joint signbibliophile physicist head14 Entertainer 45 Emphatic 9 Sports org. 
Delon 10 Multiplicationpronoun15 Forest ground 
46 Queue word cover 

47 Tree 11 Norse god 


16 Notion 12 Apportion Tuesday's Solution 
48 Trapshooting17 Spoil 13 Direction of51 With it

18 Banned 
57 Instantly Steinbeck title 19 Virginia
20 Spontaneously 59 Tybalt's 22 Dogma downfall 
willow 21 Printing

23 Comp. dir. 60 Gr. cheese 24 Garden tools 61 Horne of song 
measures 26 Corolla units 62 Submarine 
25 Sp.gold 63 Lacerate 

26 Priest 30 Antitoxins 64 Heavy blow 27 Messedup 31 Drug measures 65 Scand. fates 28 Adolescents 34 Scene of action 29 School subj. 35 Division word DOWN 30 Villain's 36 Pahlavi 1 -·nine· expression 37 Reverie tails 31 Onion relative 38 Recent: pref. 2 Viking name 32 Waterway 39 Think 3 Having natural 33 Dish spot 
40 Charter luster 35 Exposed ©1985 Tnbune Media Services. Inc. All Rights Reserved
41 Phase 4 Force 36 Springs 




~~!!!!!!~~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~~!!!!!!~~!!!!§,...................................................................~ 
PLANTS••~LANTS••PLANTS••PLANTS••PLANTS•• PLANTS I 
~.....................-~.w.......................................~ ..................................................................... 
-------~-----­


By MARC RAMIREZ "We need to get co .500 first. Then Sports Writer we'll start thinking about winning the conference." 
The Billikens of St. Louis Univer­Saturday's win upped the Bil­sity are right where they want to be likens' record co 10-7, 4-3 in the as they head into the ACC to take on Midwestern City Conference, and Notre Dame tonight at 7:00. Al­keeps alive St. Louis' hopes for its though Saturday's 73-69 triumph first winning record in 12 years. over Evansville was preceded by two conference losses, third-year Luther Burden has been the major Coach Rich Grawer is nonetheless factor in the Billikens' success this pleased with his team's performance season, averaging 21.3 points a game so far this season. to lead the team. The 6-5 senior 
"Where we finish in the confer­guard has led St. Louis in scoring in ence isn't that important to us right 12 of I 7 games, including a season­now," Grawer says. "If we lose three high 36 against Butler on jan. 14. He games in the conference, but win is also among the nation's leaders in three non-conference games, I'll be free throw accuracy, converting on happy. Our goal today is the same it's 58 of 64 attempts for a .905 
been: to get to .500. 
sport around. and there is a good reason for it. Instead of 
having to watch a game from a point 50 yards or more 
from the action (football), instead ofhaving to deal with 
constant periods of inaction (baseball), ba.'>ketball fans 
can stay right on top ofthe action and even play a role in 
the outcome of the game. 
Notre Dame studems know very well that they can 

make life miserable for the opponents. At the same time, 
they realize that their support can turn lethargic Irish 
play into an inspired performance -the Providence 
game, for instance. 
What the crowd's actions do is make playing basket­ball much harder than it already is. Mistakes are part of the game, a.'> anyone who plays basketball knows, and, while it is bad enough to miss a layup or fumble a ball out of bounds when you're playing in the Rock, it is even tougher to mess up in front of I I ,000 people who are going to let you know about it -especially when you have nothing co hide behind except a pair ofshorts and a sleeveless shirt. 
It's called home-court advantage. The crowd noise is meant to make it difficult for the opponent to concen­trate on his own game. If the fear offailure is planted in the player's head, it will adversely affect his perfor­mance. Ofcourse, some players are very good at putting the crowd out of their mind. They realize that they are going to have to put up with a hostile crowd when they play on the road, so they prepare themselves for it. 
There is no way, however, to prepare yourselffor the boos and razzing when they come from the supposedly supportive home crowd. There is nothing worse than knowing that those people who are supposed to be rooting for you are treating you like an opponent, espe­cially when you are trying to give I00 percent. 
This is the present case with Irish center Tim Kempton. You know Kempton -the guy who gets a couple of shots blocked each game, the guy who fumbles an occasional pass out of bounds. He's also the guy who has become the Notre Dame students' scapegoat for the occa.'iional poor performances by Dig­ger Phelps' squad. 
Michael Sullivan 
Sports Editor 
Kempton sometimes seems to get blamed for every­thing that goes wrong on the court. He fails to catch a pass that is thrown at his feet and the crowd boos. He can't hold on to a pass that is thrown behind him on a fastbreak and t)le students throw up their hands in ridicule. He gets fouled on a drive and the ball doesn't go in and the crowd hisses. The "fans" cheer when he goes to the bench and boo when he comes backinto the game. 
If you were in Kempton's place, what would you think? The Maryland fans were brutal enough as they cheered "We want Kempton" after he missed his lOth shot in I I tries. A game in the ACC would seem to be the perfect respite after that embarrassment. 
Now, I'm not trying to say that the students should get off Kempton's back because he's a good guy or be­cause he busts his butt on the court. Anyone who has watched him play knows the latter is true. I don't know him well enough to say whether the former is true, but it really isn't important. 
What is important is that the crowd's performance is having negative effects on his play. He has become very tentative on offense, and it is becoming very obvious that he is looking to unload the ball as soon as he gets it because he is afraid ofmaking a mistake. Right now he is just not the force that he used to be. 
People just don't seem to realize how important it is for Kempton to play well on offense and defense. It's almost as ifthey have forgotten about the last two years when Kempton's bruising inside play was an integral part of the team's success. Without him, the Irish never would have reached the NIT final last year. And, with-
see SULLIVAN, page 11 
Wednesday,January 30, 1985-page 16 
Will Bob Knight reveal cheaters? 
Chuck Freeby 
Irish Items 

Hello again, everybody! Cheaters never prosper! It's a line we have heard ever since we were children, and it may 

hold true in many cases. However, in the increasingly busines~like 
world of collegiate athletics, it seems that cheaters have been a 
mighty prosperous bunch in recent years. While allegations are 
tossed around with the greatest ofease, few illegal actions are actu­
ally caught by the short arm of the NCAA. 
That is, until tomorrow night. 
Tomorrow night at 7 p.m., WTI'\\ -TV in Indianapolis will air a 
half-hour program entitled "Bob Knight Speaks Out. · While the ~ub­
ject matter for the program which will be taped today has not been 
released, the most popular speculation b thati>Lnight will use the 30 
minutes to release what information he has on recruiting violators in 
the Big Ten. 

The topic is one ofgreat interest to Notre Dame, considering the 
efforts of Irish basketball coach Digger Phelps. It wa.'i only three 
years ago when Phelps drew the ire of many folks inside and outside 
the NCAA for his charges that several universities were paying 
recruits up to S40,000 each. While NCAA Executive Director Walter 
Byers was vocal in his denial at the time, he recently ate those words 
in an exclusive interview with the New York Times. Phelps' accu­
sations came at the same time ofthe NCAA tournament, and divided 
attention between the NCAA's most glamorous event and one of its 
most ugly problems. It is certainly a situation that the NCAA likes to 
avoid at all times, and the fact that Phelps brought it up when he did 
was not endearing to the powers that be. Now it is Phelps' good 
friend Bob Knight who has taken the reigns of the crusade. Knight 
has been in the focus ofturmoil throughout this season, partially due 
to his allegations of illegal recruiting practices among coaches. As 
was the case with Phelps, several people in the Big Ten said that if 
Knight had the information he should name names. In effect, an ul­
timatum of"put up or shut up" has been issued, and it appears Knight 
may be ready to put all the cards on the table. 
Another reason for the tumult surrounding Knight has been the 
handling of his team. The furor came to a head last Sunday, when 
Knight benched Olympian Steve Alford and several other starters in 
favor ofUwe Blab and four freshmen in a televised game with Illinois. 
Indiana fans, as well a.~ many members of the press, were vociferous 
in their complaints about Knight, and wondered aloud just what the 
Hoosier coach was doing. 
Nevertheless, Knight would not say afterward why he used only 
Blab and the freshmen during the course of the game. He merely 
spoke about how his young players had performed. lllinois coach 
Lou Henson, one of the people Knight has had his eye on, also 
averted hazarding any guesses as to the reason behind Knight's strat­
egy. Still, the tempestuous Indiana mentor is too good a coach not to 
have a good reason for this controversy. 
Now I certainly have no way of knowing what Bob Knight ha.'> on his mind, but here's a hypothesis. Suppose in tomorrow night's pro­gram, Knight produced enough evidence against several programs. including lllinois, to warrant an NCAA investigation. Let's also assume that an investigation also brings out stiff penalties against these schools. Wouldn't Knight's act be considered a legitimate way ofdrawing attention to the problem? 
Ofcourse, that kind ofstrategy could backfire, too. Knight may not 
have enough evidence to procure any kind ofprobe, and would have 
lost a game he had a good chance of winning. However, Knight 
knows that his team is going to be in the NCAA tournament along 
with four other teams in the conference, so a loss to the Illini cer­
tainly isn't going to be ofany real importance to the Hoosiers in the 
longrun. 

The other option which must be considered is that Knight will not 
mention the recruiting practices at all and will, instead, have some 
other explanation for his behavior. This certainly would be a 
surprise, though, since, other than on the basketball court, Bob 
Knight has never been the kind of person to assume a defensive 
stance. 

Thus, tomorrow night has the possibility of being a major step in curbing the problem of cheating in collegiate athletics. For the first time, a major college coach will take his information not only to the NCAA but to the public as well. If that is the case, then one can only have more respect for the work done by both Digger Phelps and Bobby Knight in working towards making sure that cheaters never prosper. 
Pick ofthe Week .. There will be plenty of basketball action on the ACC hardwood in February, and it starts with women's hoops action on Friday night. Coach Mary DiStanislao's Fighting Irish look to get ahead of the pack in North Star Conference play when they entertain Evansville at 7 p.m. in the ACC. As though the game is not enough ofa draw, Friday night's halftime will mark the first semi­final in the Domino's pizza-eating contest. There will be prizes awarded to participants, as well as to spectators. Dribbles and Domino's Friday night. Be there! 


