Kicking the habit -page 5 

VOL XX NO <;<; TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1985 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
U.S. and Soviets sharpen propos~ls for summit talks 
Auoclated PrcM Robert McFarlane, also defended the 
"Star Wars" research program, tel­

GENEVA -Soviet leader Mikhail ling reporters "the Soviet Union has 
Gorbachev joined President Rea~an driven us to this" by building up its 
In this chilly seat ofneutrality yester­own offensive nuclear arsenal and 
day, and on the eve of their summit conducting a defensive research 
the superpower chiefs squared off program ofits own. 
on "Star Wars," the anti-missile The Soviet Union, he said, "could 
program that lies at the heart of lag­not reasonably expect any country 
ging efforts to forge a new arms to stand by idly and watch" while 
agreement. Moscow pursued a program of Its 
American and Soviet officials own. 
were sharpening thei.r proposals for In a new development yesterday, 
today's first session between the 74-a Soviet official traced a possible 
year-old Reagan and Gorbachev · a Kremlin proposal to break the im­
man .W years Reagan's junior and passe on space weapons by es­
still relatively untested in interna­tablishing a joint scientific panel for 
tional affiairs. superpower inteUectuals to con­
Both leaders pledged fidelity to ef. sider "Star Wars" issues together. 
forts to end the superpower arms The official, who spoke on condi­
race but discussed sharply divergent tion of anonymity, said he did not 
views on how to achieve the goal. know whether Gorbachev might ac­
Gorbachev said he came to dis­tually raise such ~ proposal to 
cuss "primarily the question ofwhat Reagan. But the source said that in 
can be dune to stop the unprece­Gorbachev's pre-summit prepara­
dented arms race which has un­tions on "Star Wars," "the role of 
A big splash
folded in the world (and) to prevent scientists was very important." 
it from spreadinginto new spheres." Official Soviet arguments, 
Students decided to avoid tbe rain outdoors and for use, the official opening should occur sometime 
It was an unmistakable reference however, were not presented yes­
get wet indoors yesterday in tbe newly completed before Tbanksgit1ing, according to newly­
to Reagan's program to develop a terday at the international press 
Rolfs Aquatic Center. Although tbe facility is open appointed Aquatics Director Dennis Stark. 
detC:nsive space shield that could center in Geneva, where thousands 
bring down nuclear missiles before ofjournalists have gathered to cover 
they reach their targets. the first superpower summit in six 
Reagan. questioned about the years. 
Soviet leader's statement, told The Soviet Foreign Ministry 

Senate votes to include abstentions 
reporters, "We both must have the spokesman walked out of a news same intentions. If he feels as briefing there after being inter­strongly that way as I do, then we'U rupted by a recent Soviet emigre 
in today's amendiTient referendum 
end the arms race." who sought to challenge the Krem­
But he remained determined to lin's human rights policies. By CHRIS BEDNARSKI question," he said. "It's everybody's would let them express this. search for a space-based defense, Irina Grlvnina, who raised a Senior StaffReporter right to do that." Senator Chris Abood said he: best known as "Star Wars" despite similar protest on Sunday, stood up Culum said that although he didn't think an abstention rule is his dislike for the term, saying, "Just as the crowded news conference The Student Senate designated wants a person to have the right to necessary. "Why? It's got no point," 

wait'll he hears my proposal." Reagan's national security adviser, see SUMMIT, page 4 

Lights to signify peace in nationwide effort 
By REGI RICHTER hieved through peaceful types of NetvsSta/f demonstration," Goldrick said. "This sign is a wonderful peaceful 
While President Reagan is way to go about it." meeting with Soviet leader Mik­
To spread word of the peacehail Gorbachev at the Geneva effort to students, studentSummit today and tomorrow, government is running an ad­U.S. citizens are being asked to vertisement in today's Observerjoin together by lighting encouraging people to par­JXlrchlights, candles, and other ticipate.

lights on Nov. 19 and 20 from "There is a definite need for 
dusk until dawn. 
students to take part in this be­'Ibis nationwide effort Is In­cause it is important that we tended to show support and show we care about peace and desire for the advancement of that we want the summit to be a 

world peace. 
success," Student Body President The Notre Dame community is Bill Healy said. 

no exception to this effort. Father 'lbeodore Hesburgh, University When asked if he thinks the president, upon the request of summit between Reagan and 
Congressman Les AuCoin of Gorbachev has any real oppor­Oregon, promoter of this plan, tunities for world peace, Healy has endorsed the resolution and responded, "You automatically Is requesting that members ofthe have to say yes because the plain 
Notre Dame community par­fact that they are meeting for the ticipate by putting a light in their first time in six years is a good windows for the next two days. sign. Now, whether something John Goldrick, associate vice concrete will actually come out president for residence life, said ofit, I don't know, but if they will he gives his full support to the at least agree to continue: talking idea. "Peace wlll only be ac-that's astep in the right direction. 
Ombudsman to oversee the referen­abstain, he is not encouraging Abood said. "It's such a knickknack, I 
dum scheduled for today on the people to abstain. can't believe you're bringing it up." 
senate's disbandment with the "I think it's a political move, K.C., I "In the past it's been an oversight 
stipulation that abstentions be think you know that," said Student of OBUD not to consider absten­
counted. Body President Bill Healy. For the tions," said Culum. 
Although the senate approved senate to change the election rules Lee: Broussard, Student Activities OBUD's role unanimously, the vote the night before the election is Board manager, said he: didn't think for the abstention was decided by a "childish and silly," Healy said. an asbstention rule is needed. "I nine to eight vote. Kevin Howard, Hall Presidents' think basically, if anything, it should 
For the referendum to pass, two­Council chairman, agreed with be a yes or no vote. I don't think we: thirds of the ballots cast must ap­Healy. "This is totally a political should have an abstention." He said. prove the amendment. move," Howard said. "The people "By including an abstention it would 
In the discussion of the who vote tomorrow are the ed­only cloud the: issue and the precise abstention, Duane Lawrence, stu­ucated people on the issue who desire of the: students wouldn't be dent body vice president said know whether or not they want the known." abstentions in past elections have senate. It's a cheap political ploy," he "I don't think you should force: 
not been counted. said. kids into a yes or no vote ifthey have: 
"We have to make a choice as to "I really disagree with what Kevin the right to abstain," said Fox. how abstentions are handled," said Howard said," said Pam Fox, senior "You shouldn't change the course Senator K.C. Culum. "It sounds like a class vice president. She said that she of the vote. It's misguided and petty point, but it isn't because it's knows a lot ofpeople who have tried wrong," said Healy. an amendment to the constitution." to learn about the issue. "I think they "I don't think this is necessary at 
Culum said that in every state in don't like the exact plan of restruc­all. Either you want the amendment the Union a person has the right to turing, but they don't like the senate or you don't," saidJudith Windhorst, abstain. "We have to address this either." She said an abstention Badin Hall president. 

South Florida braces itself for Kate 
Auoclated Press "Certainly we ought to be at 1 5 to 20 mph by what Frank called 
worried," said Neil Frank, director of "a fairly decent river ofair." 
MIAMI -People flocked out of the the National Hurricane Center. Five: to 10 inches of rain was c:x· vulnerable Florida Keys yesterday "This isn't the big awesome kind of pected along its path, and tides 4 to 7 and Governor Bob Graham declared storm we: see in September, but it's a feet above normal were predicted a state ofemergency in south Florida very respectable hurricane:." for the area where: it makes landfall, as Hurricane Kate churned across At 5 p.m., Kate's highest sustained the advisory said. the tiny Bahamian islands. winds of 100 mph were centered Graham declared the: state: of 
Boaters gathering to escape near latitude 22.0 north and lon­emergency for Palm Beach, winter in the North were told to gitude 76.0 west, in the southeas­Broward, Dade:, Lee, Collier and head for safe inland harbors, and tern Bahamas and about 375 miles Monroe: counties, allowing him to residents of mobile homes and · southeast of Miami, in what local beachfront condominiums were weather veterans call "Hurricane Al­
see KATE, page 4 

urged to find more secure shelter. ley." The eye was beingcarried west 

-~ -­

Tuesday, November 19, 1985 -page 2
The Observer 


In Brief 
Four Palestinians accused of hijacking the Achille Lauro cruise ship were convicted with a fifth man yesterday for charges of illegal possession of arms and explosives. The court or­dered prison terms ranging from four to nine years for the five men convicted yesterday. They face trial at a later date on charges of kidnapping and of murdering Leon Klinghoffer aboard the Italian cruise liner during the three-day ordeal in October. They did not talk about the murder of Klinghoffer, the American passenger who was shot and tossed overboard in his wheelchair. However, in a written statement presented to the court, one of the defendants described his Kalashnikov automatic rifle and said it was the one "I used for the most serious crime for which I am accused." -AP 
The World's Tallest Building may be located 
in Manhattan by I992, according to a developer who announced plans yesterday to construct the I 50-story tower, as part of a proposed complex of television studios, apartment~ 1stores and parks. The triangular skyscraper would rise I,670 feet, about 2IO feet higher than the current record-holder, the II0-story. Sears Tower in Chicago. -AP 
Of Interest 
ProfessorPeterWalshe, professor ofgovernment and director ofAfrican studies at Notre Dame, will lead a discussion on the business and economic aspects of U.S. involvement in South Africa tonight at 7:30 in LeMans Hall's Stapleton Lounge. The discus­sion is part ofSaint Mary's South African Awareness Week. Emphasis will be placed on the role Saint Mary's can play in countering apar­theid. The film, "More Than an Investment," also will be shown. The discussion and film are open to the public. -Tbe Obseroer 
Junior Night Out at Chris' Ice Cream is tonight after I 0. Coupons for thirty percent off will be available tonight in the dining halls. -The Obseroer 
The Father Leo Ward Memorial Program will take place this afternoon at 3:30. in the Memorial library auditorium. Professors Stephen Fredmanofthe English department and Marjorie Kinsey of the art department will present "Collaborations: Some Recent Poets and Painters." Father Leo Ward was a noted Holy Cross priest, philosopher and poet. -The Obseroer 
All economics majors are invited to an informal student-faculty dinner tonight at 5:30 in the south basement lounge of Walsh Hall. The spaghetti dinner is sponsored by Omicron Delta Epsilon. A donation of S I is requested. Anyone who is interested should call Rich at 283-2299 or Pat at 283-2309.-The Obseroer 
A student-faculty mixer ror a11 arts and letters and science majors will be held in Stanford Hall's social room from 4 to 6 p.m. The mixer is sponsored by Breen-Phillips, Cavanaugh, Far­ley, Keenan, Stanford and Zahm halls.-Tbe Obseroer 
JesuitVolunteer Corps representa!ive T.J. Conley will be available in the library concourse from IO a.m.to 4 p.m. today. From 4 to 6 p.m., he will be at the Center for Social Concerns to _show slides and answer questions. -Tbe Obseroer 
Off-campus students can vote on the constitu· tiona! amendment from noon to 5 p.m. today at the OBUD desk, located on the first floor ofLaFortune. -Tbe Obseroer 

Weather 

People under three feet taU 
should beware of the growing puddles, as there is a 60 percent chance of thundershowers today. Windy and warm with the high near 70. A 60 percent chance of thundershowers tonight. Windy and turning colder with the low around 
35. Windy and much colder tomorrow. A 40 percent chance of rain or snowshowers and highs in the 30s. 


Design Editor.............................. Tom Small Viewpoint Copy Editor .......... Miriam Hill Design Asslstant... ........o. Tracy Scbindele Viewpoint Layout.......... Melinda Murphy Layout Staff......................... Robert Luxem Features Copy Editor.......... Eric Bergamo Slotman ...................................... l.arry Burke Features Layout...................... Karen Webb Typesetters ...................... Suzanne Hammer ND Day Editor......................... Doug Hasler 
Becky Gunde(m:ut SMC Day Editor.................... Priscilla Karle News Editor............................. Scott Bearby Ad Design .............................. Mary Creadon Copy Editor.................................... Phil Wolf Sharon Emmite 
Tripp Baltz Photographer .................... Hector Moreno Sports Copy Editor................. Marty Bums 
The Observer ( l 'SPS 599 l-~000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation JXriods.lbe Observer is published by the students oflhe l"niversity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for Hll JXr year ( HU JXr semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 
~M56 

The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are 
resrrv~d. 



Notre Dame not to blame for unfortunate occurrence 
Is anyone to blame? 
Rape is a sensitive, tragic and brutal act. Unfor­tunately, we are surrounded in this world by many bru­tal acts. 
On May I2, I985, Susan Matre, then a graduating senior of nursing at Saint Mary's, was raped on the road between Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. Because of this incident, Matre filed a S3 million personal injury suit against the University. 
The suit charges that Notre Dame did not supply ade­quate security, protection and lighting on the road bet­ween the two schools. Notre Dame owed Matte "the duty of exercising ordinary and reasonable care to protect her from criminal activity and harm," according to the suit. 
At approximately II p.m. on Sunday, May I2, Matte was walking alone on the road, returning to Saint Mary's from the Grotto. She was wearing earphones and listen­ing to music, so she did not hear her assailant approach her from behind. Matre then 
road through the gate at U.S. Route 31. Indiana State Police, St. Joseph County Police, Saint Mary's Security, several University employees and other service vehicles have passes to go in and out of the gate. The increased traffic allows several people to patrol. the road, apart from the regular patrolling done by Notre Dame Security. 
Rakow also commented on the escort policies that have been in existence for several years. Notre Dame security will take one or two female st1,1dents to the in­tersection at 3I and wait until Saint Mary's Security comes to pick up those students. 
Did Susan Matre provide adequate protectionfor her­self! 
No. First, she took the chance of walking outside alone at night. Women constantly are warned never to walk alone at night, and the road joining Saint Mary's and Notre Dame is no exception. Second, she walked with earphones on, thus her attention was intent on the 

Seniar: Accept the Challenfiie! Ha Crass Assaciates 

--FreeRaireuts~---. 
Our styled haircuts are only $6.00 and now we'll give you a card that e_ntitles you to every 5th haircut free 
Call or walk on over­
-=--~----~-------,
The Varsity Shop

Open6days Edison Rd. at St Rd 23
Evenings until 7:30 
277-0057 




Margie Kersten 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
music. 
But the basic point is that Matre took no personal precautions for herself. One of the first things a Saint Mary's freshman learns is the dangers ofwalking alone. This danger surrounds the world and one would be naive to think that Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are immune to the dangers ofthe outside world. 
We are not living in a Utopia; it is unfortunate that we cannot always be out ofdanger, but that is life. The inci­dent itself is not fair, but for Matte to use Notre Dame as 
a scapegoat is also not fair. 
use the University or College as a scapegoat. 
No amount of security can alleviate the dangers that exist in our world. Notre Dame did provide optimum security and Saint Mary's students were more than warned about the dangers ofwalking alone at night. 
This case is a falacious case. Notre Dame did act reasonably. 
Matre did not. 
Yet, neither is to blame. 
19 
NOVEMBER 
1985 
2days till the GREAT AMERICAN SMOKEOUT 
was dragged into a wooded area where the assailant bru­tally assaulted and raped her, according to the suit. 
So the question we must ask in the case of Susan Matte is "who was negligent?" 
Did Notre Dame provide adequate protection? 
Yes. The road between the two schools is and was then patrolled every half hour. The road is well lit, well enough to read at night. 
According to Director of Notre Dame Security Rex Rakow, approximately IOO public safety and service vehicles have access to the 

tton .eking full.flme ltall. Lodging, S11501month. health covoerage. Public Interest group developing COUI1el on non· violence and operating National coalition on Televlllon VIolence national headquarters. .In Cham· palgn next to Unlveralty Illinois. 
ReHarch,  writing,  office  work,  
monitoring  entertainment.  One  
vear commitment.  

Notre Dame should not settle this case. Notre Dame should defend itself because it was not negligent. The
Q ,. University did not cause t_he rape, nor did it enhance its chances of occurring. Matre did not cause the rape, but she did in fact increase its chances by walking alone at night. If Notre Dame settles this case, it will be setting a precedent for both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's that would shadow the . two schools for years to come. This shadow would allow for future law suits where students would attempt to 

The Observer Tuesday, November 19, 1985-page 3 

WSND airs fund drive for station operations 
ByJULIE PALARAMO 
StaffReporter 
Radio station WSND, FM 88.9, Is tuning in on Its Fall Fine Arts Fund Drive, which will continue to run today through Sunday. 
The fund drive's organizers say they hope to raise 18,000 this fall. The drive is held twice annually. 
To raise money, DJs will be asking for pledges on the air, and the station also will be running a mail campaign for people on the WSND mailing list. 
Notre Dame faculty and staff and other South Bend residents, who comprise a large part of the mailing list, are expected to give strong sup­port to the fund drive, Enderle said. Students also provide money for the drive, he said. 
Donors can send money to P.O. Box "i32, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556or call the station at 239-7342 to pledge. One also can be put on the WSND mailing list and receive a free program every two months by cal­ling the station. 
As an incentive, WSND is offering gift!> for large donations. Classical tapes, WSND Tshirts and tote bags will be offered to donors of $20 or more. 
The station began broadcasting in 1962 and Is the oldest public radio station in the area. WSND broadcasts from 7 a.m. to 2 a.m. every day, playing primarily classical music with an occasional jazz program, ac­cording to WSND Business Manager Richard Enderle, a Notre Dame senior. From midnight until 2 a.m., however, the station airs Its own up­beat program called "Nocturne Night Flight," when current tunes can be heard. 
Tlu· FCC-licensed station broad· 
l'OL~ts from a one-room studio on the fourth floor of O'Shaughnessy Hall and reaches an audience within a 45­mile radius of Notre Dame. Recep­tion of the semi-professional radio station is clear on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses, Enderle said, because the station operates on the FM band. 
In addition to the Notre Dame community, WSND has many lis­teners and supporters in the South Bend area who volunteer their time and money to keep the radio station operating. Enderle said the older lo­cal citizens .are the station's main audience, but he said he would like to have more students tuning In, especially during "Nocturne Night Flight," when modern groups can be heard. 
In the pit 
Seniors Vince Caluorl andScott Cohan ventured 
WSND is partially run by students, 
into the Library Pit yesterday to cure the munchies 
with Notre Dame senior Eileen Rid­
and to take a needed break from studying. Loose 
ley as the station manager. Ap­
changecan be converted into a variety ofjunkfood 
proximately two-thirds of the 


i 1 
38-member staff are students, while the rest are local volunteers. 
Most positions are voluntary, al­


Injured Hurley receives 'family' aid I 
though sometimes hourly wages are used as an incentive for people 

By MICHAEL). CHMIEL 
working during school breaks, when 

StaffReporter
most students are not on campus. For most incoming students,
The administration has been very freshman year Is one full of ad­responsive to WSND needs, Enderle venture and discovery, as new wayssaid. The University recently oflife and new roles are assumed.

purchased new equipment and a For freshman Kevin Hurley, thesatellite dish for the station. Notre initial taste of Notre Dame life wasDame provides financial support to short before it was interrupted by anWSND during the academic year, accident that put him into a con­but requires the station to raise tinuous coma early this semester. 

enough money to oPc:rate through Since his accident, however, thebreaks and the summer months. 

Notre Dame "f.lmily" has respondedWSND must broadcast at least seven by going out and doing something tohours a day to maintain Its FCC help him.
license. 

AHention: Notre Dame Employees YOU CAN JOIN THE FIRST LOCAL IPA*HMO IN THE 

MICHIANA AREA 
Key

Health 



Plan 
100% 
TOTAL HEALTH CARE WITH NO DEDUCTIBLES AND MINIMAL COPAYMENTS ..,. OFFICE VISITS COVERS ..,. ROUTINE CHECK-UPS ..,. PREGNANCIES
IN FULL 
..,SURGERIES ..,. HOSPITALIZATIONS ..,. EMERGENCY CARE BOTH IN AND OUT OF AREA ­
WORLDWIDE ..,PAP SMEARS ..,. IMMUNIZATIONS/INOCULATIONS 

KEY HEALTH PLAN 
Wholly Owned by Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Indiana 
*Individual Practice Association (you personally choose a privately practicing physician as your health care manager) 
(or even some somewhat healthy snacks) through tbe many vending machines in tbe basement lounge. 
"He's one of the Notre Dame family," said Student Body President Bill Healy. "Notre Dame has a record of being generous with its own. When someone is hurt the way that Kevin Is, it's nice to see everybody pitch in and help out." 
A campus-wide collection for the Hurley f.lmily Is the basis of a drive started Sunday, Oct. 13 at the Masses in the dormitory chapels and at Sacred Heart Church. 
"It was the student body presi­
dent who came to me and asked me 
ifwe could collect money at Sunday 
liturgies," said Father Andre 
Leveille, director ofUniversity Mini­
stry. "We talked It over In my office 
and proceeded because it was a 
good cause. It's one way to show 
that we care." 
At Saint Mary's, donations were 
collected through the Office of 
Campus Ministry and fund raisers 
held by Individual dorms. 
Over 12,000 was collected on the 
Notre Dame campus, while an addi­
tional S830 was collected at Saint 
Mary's. 
"This is a pretty substantial collec­
tion," said Leveille. "In terms of the 
number ofstudents that we have and 
In terms ofgenerosity, I thought that 
it was pretty good." 
The collection at Sacred Heart Church totaled close to $800, and collections made In the hall chapels summed to just over 11,200. 
The money that was collected on the October I 3 weekend has been put Into a fund for Hurley, and when all donations are included, a check will be drawn and presented to his family. 
While the donations on campus have been many and will aid the Hurleys, more should be done, ac­cording to Priscilla Wong, assltant director ofUniversity Ministry. 
"It's a substantial amount of money," Wong said, "but It's also very insignificant compared to the bills that the family has to pay. More can be done, and I think It would be nice to see some really Involved fundraislng. Actually, to set a goal of 120,000 to •25,000 Is not too high." 
In response to a strong desire by students to help their fellow stu­dent, the student government has established a committee to plan events that will provide financial and emotional support for Hurley. 
"The long-term goal is that mayb<: 
Kevin can return to Notre Dame, 
and that would be wonderful," 
Healy said. "But at this point, we 
don't know. This (fundralsing) 
could only help." 

Closed Saint Mary's classes not fault of ND students 
By KIMBERLY TRENNER 
SeniorStaffReporter 
"Many classes did not close out due to Notre Dame students," Stu­dent Body President Ann Marie Kol· lman said at last night's meeting of the Saint Mary's Board of Gover­nance. Many students have com­plained that they were blocked out of classes because students from Notre Dame filled their places. 
"Students may have been misin­formed about the closing ofclasses," Kollman said. Each department al­lots a specified number ofspaces for Notre Dame students In each class, according to Teresa Marcy, assistant to the vice president. This policy prevents Notre Dame students from closing Saint Mary's students out of classes. 
In other business, Kollman an­nounced that Resource cards will be provided free of charge by First Source Bank for those students on the campus payroll. Complaints among student workers who had to purchase these cards spurred the board to take action. 
Students on the payroll are forced to open an account with the bank.Their pay automatically Is deposited In this account. To provide the students easy access to their paychecks, the bank had of· fered workers a Resource card for 
no. 
The bank's new policy Is to provide workers with a card at no extra charge. Students who already have paid this fee may see Rosemary Remble at First Source for a full refund . 
Coming student elections also were discussed at the meeting. "Both class and student body elec­tions will be In February," Elections Commissioner Mary I.ally said. 
"We have decided to change hall elections to four on a ticket," said Kollman. The previous policy oftwo students running on each ticket was changed with the hope that cam· paign work would be distributed more evenly. 
Also discussed was the U.S. Route 
31 crossing. A letter sent to the St~te 
Highway Commission proposed the 
following: 
• 
to provide a strobe light on the traffic signal 

• 
to delay the signal between the light cycle 

• 
to Increase lighting, perhaps ex­tending to the toll road 

• 
to provide a traffic signal at Douglas Road 



The Observer Tuesday, November 19, 1985-page 4 


Prisoner of conscience addresses 
. 


South African apartheid policies 
ByELLYN MASTAKO describe his life and the audience Sentor StaffReporter could draw its own conclusions and then decide what to think about the 
"I bring a message from the situation in South Africa. people of South Africa. We are He said that he was raised in a typi­overjoyed when we hear of the sup-cal South African home where all port from all over the world for our aspects of his life were determined 
_cause. We are glad that people are by his color. He was lucky enough to beginning to identify with our have had the opportunity to study at plight," said Sonny Venkatratham, a a university. At that time, few blacks native South African who spoke last were admitted to universities, night as part of Saint Mary's Apar-where they were physically theid Awareness Week. segregated. 
"When we cry, 'Down with "Throughout their schooling, America,' " he continued, "our blacks are indoctrinated to the belief shouts are not to the people, but at that they are inferior, and that the their system of government and to whites are superior," Venkatra.tham the multi-national corporations said. which are milking the Third World He eventually joined the f.aculty at dry. These are the people whom we the university. While there, he or­ask to get out ofSouth Africa." ganized student protests, such as the 
The Saint Mary's College boycotting of daily mandatory Peacemakers. have sponsored the school assemblies. As a result of week of events aimed at making stu-'these protests, Venkatratham never 
dents more aware of the apartheid problem. They have chosen the slogan, "Amandala!" which means liberation in one of the native Ian­guages of the land. It is the current cry of the anti-apartheid movement in South Africa. 
Last night's program was titled, "Prisoners of Conscience" and was presented by Amnesty International. Venkatratham was a prisoner ofcon­science. 
Venkatratham said that he would 


Summit 
continuedjrompage 1 

was about to start and accused the Soviet Union of massive human rights violations. 
Kremlin spokesman Vladimir Lomeiko asked the woman several times to be quiet, but when she con­tinued to talk for several minutes to journalists surrounding her, Lomeilco picked up his papers and left the room, saying the journalists seemed more interested in talking to Grivnina than in hearing him. 
He later resumed his briefing in another room with only a fraction of the reporters present, but it was a setback for the unprecedented Soviet publicity campaign whose 

sophistication  has  surprised  
longtime  observers of Kremlin  
operations.  

Reagan and Gorbachev, whose formal title is general secretary of the Soviet Communist Party, began their four two-hour formal discus­sions with a 15-minute tete-a-tete. 


Kate 
continuedfrom page 1 
activate the Florida National Guard 
to help with evacuations ifneeded. 
The government of the Bahamas 
also issued hurricane warnings. 
The first mandatory evacuations 
were in Dade County, where Miami­
area disaster officials ordered resi­
dents of mobile homes and trailers 
to move into inotels or friends' 
homes. 
COLLEGIATE 

--""JAZZ " 
~FESTIVAL-

Meeting: 
Tuesday, Nov 19 at 1 Opm in Main Lobby LaFortune for Underclassmen interested in assistant staffpositions. 

was allowed to teach, and he began an odyssey of imprisonment and detention. 
He received a notice that he was to be put under house arrest for five years. This meant he could never be in the presence of more than two people at the same time, he was restricted to one area and he had to be in his home from 6 p.m. until 6 
a.m. every night. 
One month after his house arrest expired, he was held in deterl_tion under the terrorism act. While in detention one's whereabouts are un­known. During this time prisoners 
are  tortured,  according  to  
Venkatratham.  
Venkatratham then  was  sent  to  

spend six years in an island penal colony. He said that he was sent on false charges. While there, he peti­tioned for basic prison~·s rights, like the right to consult with a lawyer and the right to be tried on specific charges. He was put in solitary confinement for the peti­tion. Today these demands are being 
met in that same prison. 
Today, Venkatratham is a law stu­dent at Columbia University and lectures on the plight of his people and the daily violations of basic human rights in his native land. 

CUSTOMER INFORMATION FROM GENERAL MOTORS 
HOW LESS LEAD IN GASOLINE WILL AFFECT YOUR CAR 
USE OF ALCOHOL-GASOLINE BLENDS REQUIRES YOUR CAREFUL SELECTION 
The Environmental Protection Agency is re­ducing the amount of lead allowed in leaded gasoline by more than 90%. General Motors supports this effort to reduce lead in the atmo~ sphere. But our customers need to know how this action may affect their vehicles. 
In simple terms, con­tinue with the same gas­oline you've been using. You probably won't notice any difference at your ser­vice station. 1ust be sure your gasoline meets the requirements below. 
For post-1974 model cars and light trucks (less thah 6,000 lbs.). Continue to use unleaded gasoline only. The new lower-lead limits for leaded gasoline are still too high: lead in gasoline will harm the emission­control system. 
For 1971-74 ~model cars and light trucks. Use eithe:r unleaded or the new lower-lead gaso­line. These vehicles were designed to run on either one. 
For all pre-1971 model cars and trucks. Use the new lower-lead gasolines. These vehicles need leaded gas to lubri­cate exhaust valves. The lead raises octane ratings and helps to avoid "knock­ing" and "pinging:' The lead is most important during continuous high­speed, high-load condi­
tions such as towing a 
heavy trailer or large boat 
over a long distance. In a 
pinch, you can even use 
unleaded gas for normal 
driving. 
Tip: Use only enough 
octane to avoid frequent 
knocking. An occasional 
"pir:tg" won't harm the 
engme. 
The new lower-lead 
gasolines should always 
be used in: 
• 
1971-78 trucks over 6,000 lbs. 

• 
post-1978 trucks over 8,500 lbs. 


The effect of alco­
hol blends. To meet the new regulations, oil re­finers will tum to other methods to maintain or increase octane ratings. Some will elect to refine gasoline more intensively. Others may add octane enhancers such as ethanol 'and methanol (more infor­mally known as grain alco­
hol and wood alcohol). 
General Motors sup­ports the use of such alternative fuels to les­sen our nation's depen­dence on imported oil. But to avoid operating and other problems, don't use gasoline containing more than 10 percent ethanol or 5 percent meth­anol. And in the .case of methanol, be sure it contains cosolvents (to prevent separation of the alcohol from the gasoline) and corrosiOn inhibitors. 

General Motors is taking steps to ensure that its future vehicles can operate problem-free with gasoline containing alco­hol. For now, you should know the contents of the fuel going into your gas tank. That's why we sup­port the requirement that gas pumps show the alco­hol content of the fuel. Such labels are being used in some states, but they are needed nation­wide. 
To get the efficiency, driveability and perfor­mance we design into your G M vehicles, be sure you use the right fuel. The proper identification and use of gasoline is good for both G M cus­tomers and G M cars and trucks. 
This advertisement is part of our continuing effort to give customers useful information about their cars and trucks and the company that builds them. · 

Chevrolet • Pontiac Oldsmobile • Buick Cadillac • GMC Truck 





Accent 
Tuesday, November 19, 1985 -page 5 
Smokeout helps students kick the habit 
ANDREW KINNEY 
featun!s writer 

I-I 
ave you tried to stop smoking 
but nothing seems to work? If 

that Is the case, "Smokeout" is for 
you. 
The American Cancer Society Is 

holding its fifth annual "Smokeout" 
this Thursday, November 21. 
Representatives were on campus in 
front of the North dining hall yes· 
terday and will be in front ofSouth 
dining hall tomorrow with activities 
and information about smoking. 
'!be Smokeout is a nationwide 

effort by the American Cancer 
Society to have those wtlo smoke 
stop for the 24 hour period of the 
Smokeout day. "The annual 
Smokeout helps smokers realize 
that they can do it," according to 
Lyla Bruce of the society's local 
chapter. "It just takes one day at a 
time." 
The main feature of the boothes an: the "promissary notes," which work as contracts for those plan­ning to take part in the day. The notes are signed by the person who intends to delay his smoking as well as the person who may have signed him up. 
"The promlssary notes," Bruce added, "require that you have to have some things planned and some things in hand." Those wishing that a friend stop, Bruce continues, must understand that smoking is one of the hardest habits to break. Smoking is emotionally, socially, as well as physically addicting. The best thing to do is "have some un­derstanding and some sympathy." 
<ireeting cards, buttons, and "~urvival packs," containing in· formation about smoking, are among the various items the hoothes arc handing out. Acom­puter is available to show th(• risk one has for developing lung cancer based on certain factors such as heredity. 
Much publicity about the effects 

ofcigarette smoking has been circ­
ulated in re<:ent years, and by this 
time most people are aware ofIts 
connection with cancer. From the 
non-smoker's standpoint, the logi· 
cal solution to smoking would be 
just to stop. The actual stopping, 
though, entails much more than just "giving it up." According to ex­
smokers, the real situation is quite 
different. 
"I had a lot of nervous energy and 
I was shaky," recalled Kelly Har­
rington of Notre Dame when she 
described her first day without 
smoking. "!tried to substitute ac­
tivities and keep my mind offofit." 
Kelly felt that a special motiva­
tion was necessary to break the 
habit once and for all. 6iving it up is 
"something you have to want to do 
rather than something that you 
think is right to do." Her reason for 
quitting was because someone 
}:lose to her aquired lung cancer 
through smoking. "Suddenly it 
seemed to me that my smoking was 
a slap in the face to her." 
Different people, Kelly con­
tinued, give up smoking for dlf· 
ferent reasons and in many different 
ways. Some give it up because it 
looks ugly. Others quit because 
they find that they don't have much 
energy. Many give up "cold turkey," 
and find that the complete 
withdraw! is too much a jolt for 
their system to bear. It is better for 
some to give up gradually · it is all 
according to how a person knows 
himself and which way he is able to 
stop. Activities such as exercise 
were helpful to Kelly, but drinking 
cola or coffee tended to aggravate 
her nervousness. 
"You really have; to think about it...people think they're exempt." The fear ofcancer is becoming less and less of a threat. Cancer is now an everyday word. For smokers, the threat is not enough. A non-smoker who reminds the smoker of this 
'pbint doesn't have much effect. 
Someone who wants to quit must 
have "someone who smoked with 
the experience to give support. You 
see the goal." 
The non-smoker who wants the smoker to stop, Kelly concluded, must understand that the smoker doesn'tjust stop smoking, he also .must change numerous patterns 'which have been set for a long time such as hand-to-mouth movements. 
Smokers who wish to quit might contemplate to undertal<e quitting on their own. American Cancer Society statistics show that three quarters of the smokers who have quit did so by themselves. 


'Healthy' cigarette is the goal for scientists 
The Associaud Press 

I 
t will be years before scientists 
develop a "safe" cigarette, says 

the director of the federal tobacco 
research facility in Oxford, N.C. 
"!think we can accomplish what 

we're trying to do, but I'd hate to 
say when," said Dr. James Chaplin, 
director of the U.S. Agriculture 
Department's Oxford Tobacco 
Research Lab. "We're not that 
close...it's a slow process." 
Chaplin said two of the lab's I 0 

scientists were working on breed­
Ing tobacco plants with a lower 
level of tar by crossing lines with 
low tar and less-than-desirable 
smoking qualities with lines that 
have good smoking qualities and 
the usual amount of tar. 
Although some 5'50 samples were 

grown this year, the scientists can 
test only 300 samples a year be­
cause they have to cure the 
tobacco, make It Into cigarettes and 
smoke them on smoking machines 
that analyze the tar and nicotine, he 
said. 
"We haven't come: up with a real 

fast method ofanalyzing for tar," said Chaplin. "We can go much 
faster if we didn't have to go 
through that process. 
The Oxford lab has focused for the last five or six years on reducing tar in tobacco. He said USDA labs in Beltsville, Md., and Athens, Ga, were concentrating on reducing the amount ofother harmful sub­stances found In cigarettes, such as solansol and phenols. 
"We have worked with nicotine, 
but this is not so much associated 
with health," said Chaplin. "People 
are smoking cigarettes with lower 
nicotine levels, but tar is the thing 
we blame for most ofour health 
problems." 
Comercially available cigarettes with low tar and nicotine are made with the substances processed out of the tobacco during the manufac­turing process, he said. 
Chaplin said his lab was also working on breeding tobacco varieties resistant to diseases and insects. Other research focuses on new techniques ofbreeding in an effort to shorten the time required to develop different varieties. 
The scientists are also working on methods ofcontrolling insects that attack stored tobacco . 

VieW~_O_i_n_t________T_u_esd....
ay_,N_ov-em-be-rl-9,_19-ss_....P_..age-6 



Notre Dame policy may force birth control use 
As a married Notre Dame faculty couple, we read with interest the front-page story in the Friday, Nov. 15 Observer on Mary Ann Trax· ler, the Saint Mary's education professor re· 
·questing maternity leave after adopting a child. While we surely sympathize with her effort to initiate a change in the maternity policy at Saint Mary's, we sympathize even more with the plight of prospective mothers 
on the Notre Dame faculty. 
JoAnn DellaNeva and Thomas P. Flint · guest column 
Many members of the Notre Dame -Saint Mary's community are no doubt unaware of Notre Dame's maternity policy. This ig­norance is hardly surprising; several phone 
, 
calls to various members in the administration 
(from Personnel on up) were required before 
we found someone able to answer our ques· 
tions concerning what Notre Dame's mater­
nity policy for faculty actually is. 
What we eventually discovered makes Saint Mary's policy, despite its shortcomings, seem quite generous in comparison. Until this year, Notre Dame women faculty could request up to a three-week leave of absence, barring medical complications. This year, the leave period has been drastically expanded · to a to­tal of(at most) four weeks. 
The pressures this policy places on Notre Dame faculty members should be obvious. An expectant mother on the faculty, even if she could pinpoint, with professorial precision, the exact date ofdelivery, would be forced to work within a fortnight of the baby's birth if she wished the luxury of devoting a full ten days to her newborn once discharged from the hospital after a normall delivery. Whether such a policy demonstrates adequate concern for the physical well-being of a pregnant faculty member is, to put it mildly, debatable; but that it plays havoc with both her teaching and that of her colleagues, who are generally expected to fill in for her without compensa­tion, can hardly be denied. 
Such a policy is also clearly not in the best interest of her students, who may find them­selves in the middle of a semester having to adopt to a new professorwho may not even be genuinely qualified to teach her specialized courses. And given the University's heightened expectations regarding faculty research and publication, the undisputed ex­penditure of time and energy which such research requires, and the fact that pregnancy normally has no effect on the time when one 
comes up for tenure -well, it should hardly come as a surprise that one sees very few women on the faculty, and especially un­tenured women, having children. 
We view this state of affairs as lamentable, especially at a university such as Notre Dame. 
Surely a Catholic institution should not be leading (albeit unintentionally) its employees to engage in practices which it deems morally unacceptable, for example, artificial birth control or abortion; yet we fear that Notre Dame's current maternity policy may well be having just this effect. Even those women who do not turn to such morally questionable al· ternatives are obviously under considerable pressure not to combine family with career. Such pressure would be reduced ifthe Univer· sity were to adopt a more sensitive, realistic maternity policy -one comparable to Saint Mary's current policy of a one semester leave at half salary. We urge that the Notre Dame admimistration seriously consider such a 
change. 
joAnn DellaNeva tlan assistantprofessor ofFrench and Thomas P. Flint is an assistant professor of pbtlosopby. Both are at Notre Dame. 

r 

, Man holds control over the future of the earth 
r 
r f r  "Each generation," wrote C. S. Lewis in "The Abolition of Man," "exercises power over its successors: and each, in so far as it modifies the environment bequeathed to it and rebels against tradition, resists and limits the power ofits predecessors ...." Alison Pivonka  
in print It is a thing we rarely think about. We speak about it in terms ofthe arms race. We discuss it in relation to the Third World. Yet the actual amount ofthought we give to our power over the future is surprisingly small. Rarely do we take time to consider exactly what the world will be like in ten or twenty years. Predicting  

ourown individual futures is difficult enough. 
In George OrWell's vision of"l984," the ul­
timate power lay in the ability to rewrite his· 
tory. It was the most subtle form of mind 
control; those it affected were without com­
prehension or confidence. They could 
believe, yet they could not prove. Knowledge 
was not forbidden, but neither was it con· 
crete. There was no understanding; all was 
sped up and superficial. 

Yet Orwell's idea ofpower over the past lay in suppression rather than expansion, in limitation rather than improvement. Altera­tion of the future did not -in fact, could not ­follow naturally. There was no future. There was only present. 
The power in which Lewis believed is the power to create a future which grows out of our history, one which is-ifwe give it enough consideration -a bit better, a little more just, and a touch more hopeful. 
It is amazing that so much oftoday's debate centers on the past. It is not a history which we can or ever should rewrite. The power we have to alter the future is limitless-and poten­tially useless. 
This week, all eyes are on Geneva. At stake here is not an arms agreement -history shows us how unsuccessful arms control has been ­but the very future of communication bet­ween the United States and the Soviet Union. Silence between the superpowers leads only to a frightening deterioration of relations. Whether or not anything is achieved on paper, the Geneva summit will have an undeniable impact on U.S.-Soviet relations, both present and future. 
There will always be an arms race: not even the two most powerful men on earth can shut their eyes and make it disappear. Yet the man­ner in which we choose to deal with it will determine the shape ofthe future. 
We are far more powerful than we realize. Our relationship with the Soviet Union will never be rooted in friendship, but it must be grounded in mutual respect: respect not for government or politics or central philosophy but for the power each has over the other and over the existence ofthe entire earth. We can­not return what we inherit, but we can learn how we must live with it before we pass it on. 
Alison Pivonka is a sophomore in the Col­lege ofArts and Letters and is regular View­point columnist. 


Protestors forget to point finger at own selves 
If you attend Mass regularly, you've probably noticed that the first reading and the Gospel reading always are thematically related. Sometimes you even can catch.the relation that exists between readings from one Sunday to the next. 
Thomas]. Mayefske 
guest column ~ 
Recently, for example, the apostles James andJohn, when asked byJesus what He could do for them, responded that they wanted preferential treatment. The following Sunday, the biind man, Bartimaeus, when asked by Jesus what He could do for him, responded that he wanted to be cured ofhis blindness. 
The juxtaposition is scathingly brilliant. James and John -the insiders, Jesus' chosen followers · want preferential treatment while the poor, unfortunate outcast seeks to be cured. The question nearly jumps off the pages of Mark's gospel: Who is really blinded here? 
In South Africa, the white minority govern­ment imposes the tyrannical and immoral sys-
Doonesbury 
r 
MR. PR&5/CJENT, AJ.M05T AU. OiJR50tNTI%,1N­auoiNG 7H05E IA.IOI?J<JNG ON mePROJECT;rottr 8CU&~ A"STARIA//JJ?5" 
PEFEN5t IS REALL.Y FtA51EJL&. a/HY 00 
YOiJ~ f 

tern of apartheid against its black and mixed-race "citizens." American students rail against the injustice, yet many simultaneously impose their own particular brand ofoppres­sion. 
This juxtaposition is a sad commentary, and the same question that Mark raised comes to mind but with added force, when considered in light of Jesus' admonition to remove the planks from our own eyes before attempting to remove the specks in others. 
"But wait," you interrupt, "What oppres· sion?" Lincoln emancipated the slaves, .Jphp.son instituted civil rights legislation, and p~e 'h~dly ever hears slurs like "act like a white man" or ''nigger" anymore. While blacks in American still are struggling for equality, they have been replaced as America's "niggers" by another minority. 
Bigotry has not diminished; it's just that a new target has been found. Racial and ethnic terms ofderision, no longer fashionable, have been replaced by one little word which cuts people ofall colors and ethnic background to the bone. The word? Simple: "fag." 
A trivial issue? Not when millions modify their appearance, behavior, thoughts, and even their very natures just to avoid being 
called "faggot." This is oppression -and it is 
not only gays and lesbians who are its victims. 
Why are words like "fag" used with such 
frequency in the speech of contemporary 
Americans? There are numerous reasons. 
Since gays and lesbians are at the bottom of 
the social pecking order, "fag" is the insult of 
choice when the object is to devastate a per­
son, to show extreme disrespect for a person, 
or to modify another person's behavior. 
"Fag" can be quite effective at achieving 
such ends, but it's even more effectively used 
as a screen; a screen which protects the user 
from the suspicion or accusation by those wit­
hin earshot that he might be gay. 
The unconscious rationale here is that the best defense is a strong offense: "If I demonstrate disgust for gays or lesbians, then ·I can't be accused of being one." In other words, "fag" often is used as a defense mec­hanism to cover up one's own sexual in­
security. 

Just as "nigger" is only the tip ofthe iceberg 
of racial oppression and discrimination, so is 
the popularity of the word "fag" only an in­
dicator of the tremendous oppression levied 
against gays and lesbians inAmerica today. We 
not only mouth insults, we take every oppor-
Garry Trudeau 
:::/JIZZ!:. .. ANOMY fAITH IN 
Alrlt/?JCAN 7fj{}{N0lfJGY!
; 
tunity to deny them the rights and privileges 
which non-gay citizens enjoy: fair housing, 
equal opportunity employment, the pursuit of 
happiness, equality. 
So quick to point the finger at oppression 
overseas, yet so willing to engage in it our­
selves. Who is really blind here? 
Father Thomas]. Mayefske fonnerly worked for campus ministry at Saint Mary's. He is presently the bead of the Office of Worship for the Diocese ofGreen Bay. 
The Viewpoint 
Department 

P.O. Box Q 

Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Quote of the day 
"God wants progress not perfectionism." 
FatherAndre Leveille HomilyonNov. 7,1985 Holy Cross Hall 

ViewP-oint Tuesday, November 19, 1985-page 7 




P.O. Box Q 
t 

Plan to replace senate will not be sufficient 
DearEditor: 
The Notre Dame student body faces a very important decision in tcxlay's vote to disband the Student Senate. But let us remember that the proposed changes do not add up to merely eliminating this body from student govern· ment; rather, we have an entirely new con­stitution for student government before us. As students, our responsibility is to be as familiar as possible with the meaning and .potential ramifications of this constitution. 
First, the authors of this proposed constitu· tion claim that the Campus Life Council can become an effective body for the students. Fine. We all should hope the CLC can beef· fective. But why has it not been effective in the recent past? In fact, why had the CLC not even met this year until Nov. 7? The student body president has the power to call a CLC meeting at any time. The CLC has never been dependent on the senate or its effectiveness to conduct business. Unfortunately, presenta· tion of, and argument for this constitution has made the senate appear liable for the CLC's Inactivity this year. It has also made the dis· bandment of the senate look like the cure for the woes ofthe CLC. Nothing could be farther from the truth. 
The role ofthe Hall President's Council also fa<:es change. lltough it has been debated in the !fPC as to the amount of change, the fact remains that the HPC is involved in 11 changes in the proposed constitution and stands to acquire five new powers and respon· sibilities. However, the main focus ofeach hall president is running his or her dorm, and this requires a great deal of committment. With these new responsibilities and a more central role in campus-wide issues, the delicate balance of the duties of each hall president is threatened. It would seem nearly impossible for each hall president to retain his or her ef. fectiveness on the dorm level. 
Finally, we should examine how this whole issue started. Five members of the senate walked out on an October meeting in frustra­tion and proceeded to compose a letter to The Observer calling for "A New Beginning" by disbanding the senate. Two of these five then drafted a new constitution. Is this the way to go about the restructuring of student govern­ment? Is this amendment the only possible solution to student government's problems? We seriously doubt it. 
Questionable also is the amount oftime and work put into this proposal. One ofits authors admitted that many of the differences bet· ween the present and proposed constitutions amounted to "word changes": substituting the words "Student Senate" with the words "Hall President's Council" or "Campus Life Coun· ell" In many Instances. This does not display a great deal of thought or input for such a serious issue. 
Not only does the proposed constitution not reflect proper student input, but the han· dling ofsuch a major change by so few people sets a dangerous precedent for future issues. Vote "no" on the proposed constitution; create a real opportunity to make an effective student government. 
Pete Sojka MarkConces FlannerHall co-presidents 


Restructuring of senate shares common history 
DearEditor: 
If one were to look back at the history of student government at Notre Dame, espe· cially where It concerns the Student Senate (the senate has been restructured every two 
years or so for approximately the last 20 years) one would see that the proposed amendment that is going to the vote this week looks like a bad joke. I have looked closely at every restructuring since 1968, and they all seem to follow a common sequence: some frustrated student government officials draft a quick restructuring plan to quell student dis· satisfaction with their elected representatives, the restructuring is taken to a quick vote, and it wins becuase "anything is better than the senate now." The restructur­ing, which addresses the problems superifi· cally at best, fails to work for more than a year, student dissatisfaction starts rising again, and the cycle repeats itself. 
The current restructuring follows the above trend to the letter. It does not deal with the problems in any effective way, and, if the students approve it, will just start the sorry cycle of Notre Dame student government on its way again. In order for a restructuring to work, it has to be well researched and thought out. It has to address the problems at root level, not superficially as this one does. 
Do not repeat the problems of the past. 
Vote "no" to the proposed amendment, so 
that an effective restructuring can be planned 
for better student government in the future. 
MaherMouasber StanfordHall 

Glory not being sought in effort to be priests 
DearEditor: 
I am writing in response to Thomas D. 
D'Andrea's letter of Nov. 14 concerning Mot· 
her Theresa's views on the ordination of 
women. 
I come from Chattanooga, Tennessee, an area where priests already are overburdened with work and their numbers are declining steadily. This summer, I had the privilege of working as an intern with a Dominican sister, Mary jane Herlik, who works in a large parish in Chattanooga. 
She shares the priest's burden ofwork there 
by running the Rite of Christian Initiation of 
Adults program, coordinating the training of 
deacon candidates, planning liturgies, coun­
seling parishoners, and generally filling the 
needs of the parish. 
I went with Herlik once this summer to visit 
a young man who had been hospitalized fol· 
lowing a motorcycle accident. He was at a tur· 
ning point in his life, for he was for the first 
time facing a reality ofdeath and searching for 
a meaning to life. More than anything else, he 
wanted to be comforted by the Christian com­
munity he knew. He wanted to receive the 
Sacrament of Reconciliation. 
ConsiderSister Mary Jane's position: She is a representative of the Church, a minister to God's people. Yet because she is a woman, she had not had the chance to be ordained and could not answer this man's need for confess­ing his sins and being reconciled with the community. 
She chose not to encourage the man's con· fidences, but rather to promise him that she would ask one ofthe local priests to come and see him. She did not want him to confess his sins to her and then have to repeat them all over again for someone else later one. 
.The moment was lost. An opportunity to niinlster to a hurting child ofGod was wasted . . . because men look more like jesus than women do. 
People such as D'Andrea and, yes, even Mother Theresa, might do well to see that the movement to ordain women is not a denial that we are servants of one another. It is a re· quest that the option of serving the Christian community in this special way be extended to those who are called to give it. 
For centuries the priesthood and hierarchy have been seen as a power structure. But women don't want in on the power structure · they aren't looking for glory. Rather, they want .this power structure to be as it should be, a ministry, a service. 
Please D'Andrea, don't accuse these unsel· fish women of falling prey to the "deceptive and myopic 'logic' of worldly wisdom." Step out ofyour own conception ofthe priesthood as a power trip and step into the ideal ofChris· tian service. Maybe together we can enrich and empower all the children ofGod. 
Kelly S.]obnson Badin Hall 

GPAs should be shown to prove superiority 
DearEditor: 

In her Nov. II letter, Carol Meaney places 
emphasis on a "fact" which is of dubious 
value. 

Even if it is true that the administration 
releases figures concerning the overall GPAs 
of both men and women here, is this really 
very important? How much weight can you 
attach to a GPA without knowing the courses 
in which it was reached? 

I will tell you. A GPA is completely meaningless without reference to the major in which it was attained. You see, Meaney, your statistic, while sensational, is completely use­less without further information. 
Thank you, nevertheless, for drawing my at· tention to the fact that this University is male-dominated even though the women are better. I have conceived of an idea through which more callous men will come to realize this. 
Afterall, women have higher GPAs. At any rate, I am starting up a movement with this in mind. I already have .thought of a catchy slogan that we can chant at our meetings: "GPA display." 
It is my belief that every girl on the Notre Dame campus should display her GPA, so that all of us ignorant males with demonstrably lower GPAs than females always will remem­ber that, contrary to our previous beliefs, women are, in fact, superior to men. 
One other very good aspect of this plan (I think there will be cheering today in Breen· Phillips) is that our cheerleaders will have this number displayed also. As a result, every time one of them is photographed, those admiring the picture will also be able to admire her mind. Wouldn't that be great? 
We could give them pop quizzes during games to keep them on their toes. They could sew their GPAs onto their skirts so that all of the male chauvinist perverts always will be reminded of the cheerleaders' intellects regardless ofwhere their minds oflower GPAs may wander while admiring the girls. 
There are already a number of people who have expressed an interest in this idea. Some ofthese feel that IQs should be displayed, also. We should just take it one step at a time, but it is a nice thought. Afterall, everyone knows that GPAs and IQs are the best means of judging a person, right? 
Meaney, could you please help me to cause the transition ofthis idea from a figment ofmy imagination to a reality? It would be such a public service; and I really think we see eye to eye on this one. I sw~ar my eye ain't fixed on your legs. 
Perhaps you should show the lead for allot· her girls by sewingyour GPA onto your jacket. I really would hate to forget that men are in fact inferior to women instead of equal to them. 
Ifanyone has any ideas on how we can rein· force Meaney's superiority complex, could they let me know about It? Ifyou are like me, unfortunate enough to be a demented male, remember to drop to your knees each time you see a woman because the odds have it her GPA is higher than yours. 
One day I will be remembered for saying, "I have a dream, a dream that one day all women will display their GPAs." A day when women will be shown to be superior. It will make life so much easier when everyone has that vital number displayed. What a reality we could create, Meaney. 
Yes, a GPA means a whole lot to me, too. It Is the measuring stick by which I will gauge the success or failure ofmy life. Thank God I have a GPA. I would feel naked without one and then I would fear women would start looking at me for my body alone. Woe is me. 
You must be thanked for driving home to me the importance of this divine number. I think my GPA is a gift from God. 
Evan Smyth FisherHall 


Much work took place in kazoo procurement 
DearEditor: 
I would like to thank Eric Hunter for his let· ter concerning the kazoos. 
Many events the Student Activities Board sponsors throughout the year go unnoticed and sometimes without appreciation. I was pleased to see that at least one person was ap­preciative of the 3,000 kazoos we gave away free to the student at the Notre Dame/Navy game. 
Believe it or not, getting 3,000 kazoos is not as easy as you might think. We went through a lot so the students could enjoy them. Thanks again, Hunter, for noticing. • 
Steven Morita SAB Special Events Commissioner 



Ihe_Q_b.se~~er-­
----.L-=Y=-~ -___:_ 
P 0. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (21 9) 239-5303 
The Observer IS the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary"s College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the admtntstratton of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­Sible. Unstgned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­tanes. leners and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is avatlable to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters, is encourllged. 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. 5arah E. Hamilton Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan News Editor ............................................. Frank Upo News Editor ................................... Dan McCulloultJ Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Spom Editor ........................................... Jeff Blumb Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Wolf 
Operations Board 
Business Manager .... ........ Dav1d Stephentlch Controller... .... Wtlliam J Htghducheck Advertismg Manager .. . ..... Jtm Hagan Systems Manager .. . Mark B Johnson Productton Manager. ......... John A. Mennell 
Founded November 3, 1966 

I  
The Observer  Tuesday, November 19, 1985-page 8  



Sports Briefs . 
The NO Sailing Club 'will hold a meeting today at 6:30p.m. at the boat house. All members are encouraged to attend. For more information call Dan Dressel at 288-8410. -The Observer 
The college football bowl situation will be the topic of discussion tonight on "Speaking of Sports" at 10 p.m. on WVFl, AM-64. Listeners are welcome to phone in their questions or comments to host Chuck Freeby and his guests by calling 239-6400. -The Observer 
NO Rowing Club pledge sheets for this weekend's er­gothon must be turned in by all members tomorrow from 6 p.m. to 7:30p.m. at the La Fortune Student Center. Sign-ups for the weekend will also take place at this time only. For more information call Mike Songer at 283-4108. -The Observer 
The ND Women's Fast-pitch Softball Club will hoJd a meeting today at 4:15p.m. in the Farley middle room. All new and returning players should attend. For more information call Marilu at 283-4189.-The Observer 
NVA White water river rafting wm be held over spring break of 1986. For those interested there will be an in­formational meeting on Thursday at 7 p.m. in the Football Auditorium of the ACC. For more information call the NVA. -The Observer 
NVA All-nighter T-shirts are still available at a cost of S5 at the NVA office in the ACC. Shirts can be picked up from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. -The Observer 
Correction 
Because of reporting and editing errors, there were a num­ber of mistakes in yesterday's story onthe Saint Mary's interhall flag football championship game. Contrary to what was stated in the headline, Holy Cross defeated McCandless. 
On Holy Cross' final drive, the game-tying touchdown was scored on a seven-yard scoring pass from Barb Dorini to janine Adams with Cathy Bove adding the extra point. 
Bove scored Holy Cross' touchdown in the overtime period on the option. The extra point was added on a reverse by Patty Petro. 


"tw...knt ( c.:ntt:r. Jllt'phtld,..,lflt·d .u.hc.·rtJ,IIl~ trum l) .1m unt1l f p m '1ondJ\ throuJ?_h I ndJ\ I he ( Jhst~n·er ".unt \1Jn .... oHh c..· lot.ltn.J on the.: th1rc..i floor ul IIJ~~Jr <olle~c ( t·ntn. J<l<'PI' ciJ"Ifinb trom 1.! ~~~ p m unul ~ p m \Ion JJ\' thou~h FnJJ\ lkJJimc tor next c..IJI 'IJ,'IIinl' '' ~ p m .\II < IJ"Ific·c.J, mu't he prepa1J. t·l!hn 111 pn,on or h\ rnJii < hM~t· ''I 0' t·nt-l>l"f hH· charJc 
tt·p, t"r da~ 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
................................................ 
TYPING CALL CHitll 234-11117 
$1 D-$380 WEEKLY/UP IIAIUNG CIR­CULAJISI NO QUOTAS! IINCE..ELY INTEftUTED RUSH HLF­ADDfiEISED ENVELOPE: IUCCEU, PO BOX 470CEG, WOODSTOCK, IL 
1100111. 
EXPEJIT TYPING II!"VICE. CALL liM. COKER, 233-7001. 
TYPING 27NI041 FREE PICKUP a DEUVE"Y 
TYPING Jecldellop 
884-8711! 
SEWING-MENDING-AlTERATIONS 
272-()971 
LOST/FOUND I 
LOST 
Orie women'a Pulut watch (diMck) 
Pleue ca/11254 iffound 
LOST: Gold Elgin watch, proo.bly at Senior Bar on Halloween. 01 sentimental value-gift from parents for 18th birthday. If found, pt-call Angelllat 272-9623. 
LOST!!! Small navy Coach purae. Con­laine lots of tO ptua keys! PI-call 4203. Sizeable reward offered. 
LOST... DARK GREEN CARDIGAN SWEATER. .. VIRGIN WOOL/WOOL BLEND, FRONT POCKETS, GRAY BUT­TONS... MARYLIN MONROE BUTION ATIACHED. . MADE IN IRELAND (?)... NOT AN EXPENSIVE SWEATER, BUT IT WAS MY FAVORITE.. IF. FOUND PLEASE RETURN. . . WIU GLADLY PAY REWARD OF DOUBLE ORIGINAL PRICE. 283-2184 or 25 Mor 
ri-y. THANKS. 
Found: car key belonging to an Audi. HI 
been lal<en to Loet & Found, La FortunE 
LOSTFRIDAYATRIVERVIEWLOOO i­35mm MtNOLTA CAMERA -PLE} >E RETURN FOR REWARD!III284-5141 
'#'''''''"'''''''''''''''''''"'''''''''''"'''''"'"'' ooooo 
lOST SilVER BEADED BRACEL iT ­REWARD284-5119 
Have you loet an umbrel lately? r ,d you INve it on a tray in the dining ha•,? Well then you're in luck. Calf Anne at 1320 to claim it. 
LOST: 1 claar glau dangling heart­Shaped earring on 11/14: somewhere around Architecture bldg. south dining hall, or stadium lot. If found pi-call Stupid at 272-3379. GrNI Mntimental value. Thanks. 
FOUND: A WOOlen cap on the llidewalk in front o1 the Notre Dame Poet Office. May beclaimed in Room B-19 FitzpaiJickorby calling 239-6381. 

MY BLUE JANSPORT BACKPACK WAS "TAKEN" FROM S.D.H. LAST THURSDAY. IT CONTAINS SWEATS. TENNIS SHOES, AND A NOTRE DAME SWIMMING T-SHIRT. IT ALSO HAS MY ROOM KEYS. I WOULD APPRECIATE THEIR RETURN. IF YOU HAVE ANY OF THIS STUFF, PLEASE CAU DAVE AT 2027. THANKS 
HIGHSCHOOL JACKET LOST: VERY. VERY. VERY SENTIMENTAL!! picture of New York state on back--"CHRIS" on front-"12"on sleeve If you return it, I promiee I'H make it worth your while THANK YOU! Chris 1453 
LOST: PAIR OF GLASSES. GOLD ME­TAL FRAME AND SLIGHTLY TINTED. WERE IN A SOFT, BROWN CASE. IF FOUND, PLEASE CAU 3404. THANK­YOU. 
FOR RENT 
... 

HOUSE FOR 2ND SEMESTER. s­BDRMS, $125/MO/PERSON. 1 MI. NO. OF CAMPUS. CAU674-6595 AFTER 5 P.M. 
FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED to Share great apartment with grad student starting Spring eem""ter. Call 287-6065 evenings. 
WANTED 
Need riders to Adanra area 11/27-12/1. Call Ed 232-8230. 
Ride needed to Syracul8, NY (Manliua) tor Thanksgiving. Pieue cal Margaret 4088. 
,._ rtcle to L.l. or NYC. Wil lh•e ex­penaea. Can INve 11/26. Cal Rod at X1768. 
Ridenl needed to Athena/ Atlanta arM, leaving Wed. Nov. 26, returning Sun. Dec. 
1. Call Mikeat 1806. 
HELP DON'T LEAVE ME STRANDED AT SMC! NEED RIDE TO CINCINNATI FOR THANKSGIVING BREAK PLEASE CALL ANNE AT 284-5409 WIU SHARE IN EX­PENSES 
I NEED A RIDE TO YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO FOR 2 PEOPLE, CAU2722 
RIDE/RIDERS TO LEXINGTON FOR THANKSGIVING. DON'T MAKE ME EAT TURKEY HERE. CALL MIKE,1844 ANYTIME. THANKS! 
NEED RIDE TO CHICAGO THIS WEEKEND 11/22-11/24 CALL JUDY 283-3572 OR 284-4389 
RIDE NEEDED TO U OF IU NOV 22-24 CALl KATHY 4395(SMC) 
Need ride No. NJ Thanksgiving Janet 284-4346 
~_F_O_R_SA_L_E~l 
Original French Perfume now available on campus! 3.4 fl. oz. only $18. Imported direcUy from France. Call 272-5206 bel­ween 6-Bpm and Uk for a product demonstration. 
.......... ····························· •........... 
Ia It True You Can Buy Jaepe lor $44 through the U.S. government? Oat tha 1-I"*Yl Call 1-312-742-1142, Ext. 
7318. 
'76 TOYOTA WAGON 4-CYLINDER, 4 SPEED. SOME RUST, RUNS VERY WEU PRICE: $750 2n-5294 EVENINGS. 
FOR SAl: LSU GA AND STUD TIX CAll 2309 
TICKETS 
2 LIU QENEIIAL ADMIIIION cd233-8803 
NEED GA'S FOR LOUSIANA ST. 4 TOGETHER OR 2PR. CALL BIU X3467. 
LSU GAs FOR SALE.272-6306 
.............................................................. 
WIU PAY ANY PR1CE FDfl EITHE" TWO Dfl TH"EE LIU GA'I. PLEASE CALL aRUCE AT 41101 ANYTIME. 
TO SEU-LSU STU TICKET-2741-ASK FOR GRACE. 
FOR SAlE -2 LSU STUDENT TICKETS CALL 284-4425 
..................................... 
NEEDED:2GA'a and atudenl TX fot'LSU­1254. 
Need Two LSU GA's or Student Tickets call John at 4073 
L1 WHO? LIUIII I need student tickets for LSU. Call Mary at 1367. 
HELP! I NEED 2 L.S.U. STUDENT TIX BAD! CALl ERIC X3659 
WIU PAY BIG .UCKI FDfl2 OA'I TO 
THE NO VI. IT. JOSEPHS IIAIKET­
IIALL GAME THIS FIIIDAYII CALL 
MIKEAT1173 ........................................ 
NEED 1 GA or Student ticket to St. Joe 8B 
game! Ca/13888. 
.......................... 

2 LSU GAS FOR SALE:288-5418 
IN DESPERATE NEED OF 3 LIU GA'I PLEASE CALL JIM AT 272-41104 
Need two (2) B-Ba/1 GA's to St. Joseph'a game. Call x1484. 
NEED TWO LSU GA'S 283-4332 
I HAVE TWO ARMS AND TWO LEGS, WilLING TO PAY ONE OF EACH FOR TWO GA'S TO NO V. ST JOE'S FRIDAY..CALL ED 4384 
Help I Need 2 LSU GA'I, call Molly at 284­5521. 

I~_P_ER_S_O_NA_L_S~ 
........................ 
You two are standing thirty inches apart, yet there ·s no way to bridge the guff and My hello. 
-R•chard Bach, Thelkfdge Acrou ForaYer 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N., 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
..................... 
PREGNANT? 
NEED HELP? Call 234-0363. 24-hr. hoUine, counseling & free pregnancy tests. 
WOMEN'S CA"E CENTER 
Earn $$$ for all thoae booka you didn't readl! PANDORA'S wiN buy your used booka M-F 11-4. or we can help you find a usedbooldoractaaa. We'reopenM-F 11­6, SAT & SUN 1Q-5. PANDORA'S is op­posite CORBY'S at 937 South Bend Ave. 
AN TOITAL II COMING AN TOITAL II COMING AN TOITAL II COlliNG AN TOITAL IICOMING 
MADNEII returns to Notre Dame for 
LSU. Taco John's anyone? 
.......... .................................... 
10 cal people--men & tu"" are the LAST 
dllys to get those plane tickets home to LA 
for xmas for a mere $289 rt! Bua will be 
provided to ORO 10 go to 1st Source 
Travel now! 

JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS 
JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS 
JUNIORS JUNIORS OFF-CAMPUS AND 
TRANSFERS 
GET YOUR DOG BOOK II PICTURES 
TAKEN AT THE JUNIOR CLASS 
OFFICE!! MONDAY, NOV.181:30-3:00 
TUESDAY,NOV. 19 4:0Q-6:00 
JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS 
JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS 
JUNIORS JUNIORS 

HUNGRY? Call YELLOW SUBMARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery houra: 5pm-12pm Monday-Thruaday: 5pm-2am Friday: 3pm-1 am Saturday: and 4pm-1 Opm Sud­nay. 
FEEL UkE YOU'RE ALONE IN A CROWD? DEVOTING LAROE AMOUNTS OF ENERGY TO THE TAlK OF APPEAIIING 'NORIIIAL'? ..ELAX, KID, YOU'"E IUMOUNDED BY FR1ENDI. CONTACT GAYS a LE&­IIANI AT ND/SIIC, P.O. BOX 114, NOTitE DAME, IN 46518, FOR COM­FIDENTIAL INFORMATION. 
JOHN JOE HEARN JOHN JOE HEARN JOHN JOE HEARN 
.... ..... ..................... 
"I shed more hair than the average bear." -meh 
If he were a building, he would be the Tower of London -a fortreu on the outside, but with the Crown Jewels ineide. 
....,.yaMu~ lerpanta -For thee Oltptolllera or eom.ppte ..llegullecland..comlnglfllfl 
ALL RSVPera (In order of arrival) N"Firat Time''B,Krisco,Doc,C.Diane,Tina,JiNy­Bean.Tonya, ourdanc•"'IIJ•rla-M&CT.ROLlY POLE-y,B"aglaacw"T,Baby HeWie. MECJID-DV,andtheeverpresentHEAD5­THANKS you made it EVERIOCLEAR aa you consumed w/out fear it'a daquina you like and punch !hal's spiked 10 much fun 8/nce god knows when decem­ber. . AGAIN? hugaandki811e8­TI&theTENNISplayer 
YO BUNNY Only 3 days left! Here are some thoughts for the day: Whore me ­Just what did the while rabbit whip out? ­We luv your seaeterial s«ills' -Do they have treet1 in Kentucky? Luv, Sexy me. Zippy, Lone Roomte, Loet Sheep, and Crowbar Woman 
Need ride to PITTUUROH for break' Donna2279 
Blondie, Hint: The geek's name rhymes with DEAD! Hey. I made a pun! Confucius say: DO THE RIGHT THING BETH, or you'll end up with a very aticky lace' Fred/Freddy 
MR. ROB WAS R1GHTI HE WAS HALF RIGHT ANYWAYS... CHRIS ISN'T THAT BAD OF A GUY! QUIT YOUR COMPLAINING H YOU GOT YOUR VERY OWN PERSONAL' 
HAPPY 20th BIRTHDAY TO THE SISTER WHO HAS MADE MY DAYS UNDER THE DOME SO MUCH EASIER. STOP BY 421 BADIN AND WISH KELLY GORE A HAPPY DAY!!! 
P.S. I HAVE MORE LABELS TO BE SEWN IN, SIS. 
TANK....DEAD 
HEIDI-YOU'RE A G"EAT ROOIIATEIKEEP UP THE GOOO WORK, AND GET PSYCHED TO KICK PURDUE'S •ooTYI 
HEY FRIEND-GOOD LUCK ON YOUR EXAM THIS AFTERNOON, AND YOUR PAPER. HOPE THIS BRIGHTENED YOUR DAY! 
CONGRATULATIONS HOLY CROSS FOR CRUSHing McCandl-! Holy Crou Scoring: 60 yard bomb from DENISE REJENT to JANINE ADAMO BARB DORIN! extra point 7 y•d pass from BARB DORIN! to JANINE ADAMO CATHY BOVE extra point 10 y•d run by CATHY BOVE In overtime PATIY PETRO extra point The SMC Flag Foot­ball Champions of 1985--HOL Y CRUSH BARB DORINI,DENISE 
REJENT,CATHY BOVE,JANINE 
ADAMO,JEANNE POWER, ANNE FAR­
REU,JULIE McNISH,CHRISTINE WIT­
HERS,KEUY HAYES, CATHLEEN O'BRYAN,MICHEUE(SUE) GUND:MEGAN MARTIN,LtNDA BLAS­KOVICH, KATE GRAY,KIM SAR­TORI,JUUE O'CONNELL,ELISA 
ANGELI,PATIY PETRO LOVE, 
YOUR COACHE5--pleaae? 
... and a taete of honey is worse than none at all. 
................................................................ 

MomandMeg­1 really didn't forget about your birthdays' How could I? Aherall. you're43 now. Mom. and Meg­han will be driv1ng in a year. Looking forward to Thankogw~ng. -A . 
Go. and never darken my towels again. Groucho Marx 
Hey Scoop, you Mets goddeu you, how soon before the job offer comes in? Con­grata on the pnntout · muat be nee to have your project fall m your lap. me and Ace 
TODAY JESUIT VOLUNTEER CORPS UB...CONCOUfiiE 111-4 IUDEIHOW 4-IPM,CSC 

LIVE MUCE SPRINOITEEN TAPES FROM All TOURS FOR SAlE. CALL 2011 FOR INFO. 
.. HAPPY 20th BIRTHDAY 
to the 
VOLUPTUOUS 
SEX GODDESS 
USA ANNE DUNN 
STOP BY 303 FARLEY AND 
.. HELP HER CELEBRATE!!. 

TaeKwon Woman-The Beavis HOT. But. there are many fiah In the ACC! Kunyel The Crazy Orie 
Stipe, Life... is a box ol Milk Duda; buloo isiR. Morriuey 
THANKS for the Femmes updatel!1 

Emmetoner. Are you busy Saturday? Would you like to go to my formal? S.P. 
TO lYONS' CINDERELLA: I'VE FOUND YOUR GREEK SLIPPERS, BUT HOW THE HEEL CAN WE GET TOGETHER? PLEASE RESPOND!! 
PLEASE HELP ME. I need a nde to the WINDY CITY tor Thanksgiving Break. Will lh•e expenses etc. Call ANNE 284­4083. 
GOOD LUCK IN PHILADELPHIA MAID MARION! WE LUV YOU!! PIZZA, CAR­LENE, HARRY MUFFMAN & WIL­HEMINA 
CARL, WHERE THE HEU WERE YOU. WAS IT A LONG WALK BACK? B,D,K & T 
THERMO-MAN, GOOD lUCK ON All 
YOUR TESTS THIS WEEK! AND 
REMEMBERTHATILOVEYOU!!C.V.O. 
................................. 
ft just goes to show you, CRIME dOes pay 
in the end. ConilrMulatlone O.C. tloccar 
CRIME. 

Stanford-0 
Uncleleetecl 
Un-.:orecl upon 
THE CHAMPS 

Brad Bendure, Mike Bennett, Dave Brienza, Tom Bowsher, Steve Coffey, Art Helmua, Manny Meldando, Mark McVeigh, Mike Normant, Chris Padgett, Mike Pecoraro, David Schreuth, Paul Schoner, Dave Simon, Tom Welker, 
~~~-~~..~!.~.~~-~-~.~.!.?.'!'!..~!.~!:.............. 
The Observer Tuesday, November 19, 1985 -page 9 


Basketball Tickets 
BecauM all ol the frnhmen did not receive tlckell to the buketball garnet, we have arranged with ticket office for upperdaumen to Hll th. tkkab whkh they will not be using to thne frnhmen. 
l. All lnternted upperclassmen should drop ol the tlcketa they will not be using at Student Government Offtcn, 2nd Floor ,lAFortune Student Center (between Bam and 4pm). 
2. 
The llcketa received by Student Govomm""t wtll be opeclolly otomped, Tlckoto remowdlrom booldeta ond sold wlthoul th• stamp and a valid I. D. will not be honored at the A.C.C. 

3. 
TM dav Nfore each gam.-. aU tklceta wJU go on ..... at ttM Rode. Dulac Record Store (LaFortune Student Center, Main floor). Tlcke.. wiU be sold only to th011e frahmen who walled In Una at the A.C.C. (After 4pm they wiD be .old to any ttudent on a ftrat come, ftrtt Hrve bas..). No checks will be accepted: please bring ..acdy four doll.ra. 

4. 
Student Govt~mment cannot quarantn the Nle of all tickell turned ln. For those whkh wE do Hll, we will mall the money directly to the pereon via campue mall. 

5. 
Thou upperclu1men who participate In thl1 program will automatically be entered Into ,. raflle. After the t.et home game winner. wtll be drawn. Firat prize will be 1100.00 towards purchata at the Notre Dame Bookttore. Second and Third prlaet will be •75.00 and ISO.OO retpectlvely toward purchaHtat the book~ etore. For evuy ticket turned In, we wlllnter your name another tlmelnto the raffle. 


We would Uke to thank all the upperclaHmen for helping out and we hope the &nhmen enjoy the games. 
I 



The Faculty -Student Mixer 
District 2 (Breen-Phillips, Cavanaugh, Farley, Keenan, Stanford, Zahm). 
Cordially invites all Arts & Letters and Science majors (and any interested freshmen) to attend a faculty-student mixer on November 19th in Stanford Hall's social room between 4-6 pm, and all Business & Engineering majors to attend a faculty-student mixer on November 20th in Zahm Hall's social room. 

Faculty-Course Evaluations 


We need volunteers to work on Faculty-Course Evaluations (FCE's). This is an opportunity to help fellow students with their course selections. 
Please contact Mike Millen at 239-7668 if you are interested in helping out. We need you to make student government work. 
The Observer Tuesday, November 19, 1985-page 10 



Briefs 
continuedfrom page 8 
A co-ed volleyball tourney, four on four, will 
be held Monday evenings at the Angela Athletic Facility beginning this Monday and running until Dec. 19.. Wqmen players must be SMC students. Applications are due Friday to the Angela Athletic Facility. for more information call the Angela Facility at 284-5549 or Karla at 284-4354.-Tbe Observer 
The annual SMC Turkey-Trot cross-country 
races will be held Monday at 4:30p.m. at the Angela Athletic Facility. The races, a 3-mile run, a 5-mile run, and a I 1/2-mile walk, are open to SMC students, faculty, staff, and friends. Entries cost $1 and must be turned in by Friday at noon. -The Observer 
The ND Weight and Fitness Club will spon­
sor a bench press competition on Sunday, Dec. 8 at a time and loca­tion to be announced. Sign-ups are being taken in the third floor weight room of the Rockne Memorial BuiH:Iing, and any member of the ND/SMC community is welcome. For more information call Pat Browne at 283-2056. -The Observer 
An NVA one-on-one basketball tournament 
will be held Monday, Dec. 2 at 7 p.m. on the ACC Arena floor. Separate double-elimination contests will be held for men under and 
Quarterback joe Tbeismann of the Washington 
over six feet tall and for women. Registrations will be accepted at the 
Redskins, shown here being sacked in a game 
NVA office in the ACC until Wednesday, Nov. 27.-The Observer 
against the San Francisco 49ers earlier this season, 
broke his right leg in last night's 23-21 Redskin vic-

Redskins knock off Giants, 23-21 
Washington pulled off its second The loss dropped the Giants, 7-4, successful on-sides kick of the game into a first-place tie with Dallas in WASHINGTON -Seldom-used and Schroeder, who had completed the National Conference East while quarterback Jay Schroeder, just four passes in his two years in pulling the Redskins, 6-5, back into 
summoned when starter Joe Theis­the NFL prior to Monday night, com­contention in the division race. 
mann suffered a broken leg, capped pleted three in a row, the last to The Redskin comeback over­
a founh-quarter rally with a 14-yard Didier, who took it away from Giants shadowed the effons of Giants run­
cornerback Elvis Patterson. ning back Joe Morris, who rushed
touchdown pass to Clint Didier as Washington beat the New York Schroeder, who had thrown for for three touchdowns and 118 
A giftfor someone 
Giants 23-21 in a National Football just 51 yards prior to Monday, com­yards. Washington got its other pleted 13-of-20 for 221 yards in scores on Theismann's 10-yard pass 
who has everything 277-7026
League game last night. 

The Redskins' winning drive relief of Theismann, who suffered a to Don Warren and John Riggins' 1-• 
GIVE A SUNTAN
compound fracture of the lower yard run.
began after Mark Moseley's 28-yard 
NATIONAL FOOTaALL LEAGUE

right leg when he was sacked in the
field goal brought Washington wit­NATIONAL CONFERENCE 
Gift Certificates Available

second period (see related story bethin 21-1 7 midway of the founh 



below).
quarter. 



Theismann fractures leg 
WASHINGTON -Washington Redskins quarterback Joe Theis­
mann sustained a compound fracture of his right. leg in last night's 
game against the New York Giants and was scheduled to undergo 
surgery early this morning to repair damage, doctors said. 
Team physician Dr. Charles Jackson said Theismann could be in a 
cast for up to six months, but the doctor expressed confidence the 
36-year-old quarterback would be able to resume his National Foot­
ball League career once the injury has healed. 
Theismann, the NFL's oldest starting quarterback who has played the last 163 games for Washington, had just taken a pitchout from John Riggins on a fiea-tlicker in the second quarter when he was hit by Giants linebacker Lawrence Taylor. Gary Reasons, another New York linebacker, came over the top, and Theismann's right ankle was 
twisted underneath him. 

Taylor immediately jumped up and began calling for help. 
Theismann was carried from the field on a stretcher and taken to 
Arlingon Memorial Hospital. 
W L T Pet. PF PA 

Booths and Beds Available 
N.Y. Gianta 7 4 0 .636 248 193 D.... 7 4 0 .636 220 197 Wuhington 6 5 0 .545 188 202 Philadelphia 6 5 0 .545 183 176 St. Loula 4 7 0 .364 200 256 
Centr8l 

x-chi~ 11 0 01.000 323 127 Detroit 6 5 0 .545 214 241 Green Bay 5 6 0 .455 229 247 
Get With The Marketing Program
Mlnneaota 5 6 0 .455 221 248 Tampa Bay 1 10 0 .91 228 334 

That Puts You To Work. 

L.A.~ 8 3 0 .727 224 181 San Francieco 6 5 0 .545 275 187 
NewOr!Mna 3 8 0 .273 190 300 Atlanta 2 9 0 .182 218 321 
AMENCANCONFERENCE 
bet 

W L T Pet. PF PA New England 8 3 0 .727 227 184 
N.Y. Jets 8 3 0 .727 287 184 Miami 7 4 0 .636 275 231 Indianapolis 3 8 0 .273 207 272 Buffalo 2 9 0 .182 148 233 
Centr8l • Pilt8burgh 6 5 0 .545 249 188 Cincinnati 5 6 0 .455 293 301 Cleveland 5 6 o .455 1n 166 Houston 4 7 0 .364 169 235 Waat 
Denver 8 3 0 .727 266 221 
L.A. Aeidera 7 4 0 .636 243 233 Seattle 6 5 0 .545 261 225 San Diego 5 6 0 .455 284 295 KanauCity 3 8 0 .273 202 271 

Only the University of Georgia offers a Brand Management



Summer Job Applications 
Mas~ program that puts you in the workplace before you graduate_ 
After rune months of i!ltenstve course work, you'll work as a salaried 
mtem for a company hke Coca-Cola, Scott Paper, Frito-Lay or 
McCann-Erickson. And you'll have the preparation you need to 
perfonn well during your intemshiJ> because we developed the 
cuniculum in coopetllttion with our BOO;d of Advisors, all leaders in 

Available 
The Notre Dame Alumni Association, in cooperation 
the marketing industry. No other p~ offers you th~ opportunity to tum specialized
with the Career and Placement Services Office, wiJJ 
trainin~ into a worltmg knowledge of biand management. And that's what will give you the edge in today's highly competitive job ,narket
again sponsor the SummerJob PlacementProgram 
Look into the Masters of Brand Management Pro!mun at the 
University of Georgia. It could be the smartest business aecision you'll ever make. Scholarships of $6,000 are available to qualified applicants. 
in 1985 

IF YOUARE INTERESTED IN APPLYING FOR 
·TIN U11lwnlty of o•o,..u. B,.,rod Moup~~NIIt Pro,rrorro
Prof-,..,_.D. Roynolde 
148 Brooluo Hall 
Ual¥er•II.J' of Oeorsla 
SUMMER JOBS IN AN 
Athna,OA30802
Alumni Club city, obtain an 
Dear Sir: 


Pleate tend me comp!ete infonnation on your Masters of Brand Management Program.
applicationfrom the Alumni Office, 20l Admin. Bldg. 
Name'----------------------------------------------­Addres• Apt#__ 
CitY-----------------------­
APPLICATIONS MUST BE COMPLETED AND RETURNED Swte-------------------------------ZiP'------------­
Day Phone'-------------------------------­
BYNOVEMBER 30. 



']I['~~C3L~------------------------------------------T·u·e-sd
..ay•'•N•o•v•e•m--b.er..I•9•'•19·8--5--•p•a•g•e•I..I 
Bloom County 
me NlfTIOfoi!L I Hli'IE TUT"AL PHOf,f; -IN ffX/... fii!TH Iff 1Hfi tre&AR(J(N& I:W-5' !tfftlU&eNCE ~N05€ IS ()1€1(. I?NCJ C()I1MGW
t.tr'-5 &O 10 1H(, ""HOI?5E seNse· CCW/PfiTfl? ROOt1 U TH£ Noeu fOf?. 11£ t?£sflm... MAsses ... 
I I 
:·~ 


Zeto 
I-lAVE '1'00 SEEN 1.------1 .X>€ .ARCU\10 LATELY? 
f/H6ttt. 11lt RfSI!lr5 * 
ARE 115 f1Xl.()W5 ••. 

QJR MoD­FOC>mAU.. 
&AI"t~. 
JOE GDT HIT MORE• 
THAN 
~VGNE~ 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
z% voml f(Jf( M NeW N05€. 
.. 

15 % VOTe/? RJI? 1HE CK-!l, 'C/.1155/C N056 ... IINI? ffll-% 
VOTCI? f()f{ IMM6Pflllft.Y f?mi/CfNG THIS Ct:mK: 5TR!P WITH 'f'R!NC& V!lt.!IWT:' 
mose t.nmr< V07fS ARf (J(SQI./I/Uff£P. 
,~ 

WE VE BEEN HAVE LOOK/NS. ~V­
'WI+ERE FVR HIM. 

11·1~ ~ 1985 Un111ersal Press Synd1cate 
"Fuel ... check. Lights ... check. Oil pressure ... check. We've got clearance. OK, Jack-let's get this baby off the ground." 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 "Splendor In the-" 
6 Tilt 10 Catches 14 Hold the 
attention 15 Indian servant 16 Aid 17 Idolize 18 Vlkkl of song 19 "-but the 
brave.•." 20 Drudge 22 Condensed 
liquid 24 Included with 26 Rained Ice 27 Olympiad stars 31 Gaelic sea god 32 "1-11 I 
could" 33 Made bovine 
sounds 35 Sch. gp. 38 Ostentatious 39 Protozoan 
©1985 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 11/19/85
40 Intuit 
All Righls Reserved

41 Affirmative 
Monday's Solution 
42 Postulate 43 A Greene 5 Cooked with 44 Beetle little water 45 Pool additive 6 Fonddu­47 Crickets' kin 7 Moslem holy 51 Father horse man 52 Reference 8 Aegean gulf 54 An Allen 9 Tickled pink 58 Celebrity 10 Raillery 59 Time for lunch 11 Concerning 61 Slgnsot 12 Category 
sorrow 13 Horse 62 Endure 21 Ignited 63 Tell­23 Plant embryo 
Sweeney 25 Common people 64 Fortune· 27 Out of sight 
telling card 28 Raced 65 Experts 29 Hovels 66 Masticate 30-boom 67 Combat place 34 Swear words 35 lovely girl 42 Seed shells 50 True, old 
DOWN 36 Nashville's 43 A lynn style 1 Metric unit state: abbr. 44 Disheartens 53 Memo 2 Astronaut 37 Mariner's word 46 Operculum 55 Exposeto 
Sally 39 Of a glacial 47 lllytype the public 3 Stratford-on·-ridge 48 Concerning 56 Press 4 In Install· 40 Grandfather a hipbone 57 Thls:Sp. 
menta was one 49 Shut 60 Immediately 


I 

Campus , 
•12:00 
P.M.-Brown Bag Seminar, "Blowing •7:00 P.M. FUm, "The Original 

Family Savings in a Zapotecan Town: Some Frankenstein", Carroll Hall, Saint Mary's, Reflections on Implications for Change", Sponsored by Department ofEnglish Professor Carl O'Nell, Chairperson, Depart­•7:30 P.M. -Movie and Discussion, Movie. ment ofAnthropology, Room 131 Declo Hall, ·"More Than An Investment", Peter Walshe, Sponsored by Kellogg Institute University of Notre Dame, Stapleton Lounge, 

•3:30 
P.M. · Lecture, "Collaborations: Some LeMans Hall, Saint Mary's, Sponsored by Saint Recent Poets and Painters", Professor Stephen Mary's Student Government and Peacemakers 

A. 
Fredman, Professor Marjorie Kinsey, 


•7:30 P.M.-Volleyball, Notre Dame vs. Eas­

Library Auditorium, Sponsored by The 
tern Michigan, ACC 

Friends ofthe Library at Notre Dame 
•7:30 P.M. · Tuesday Night FUm Series,

•4:00 P.M. -Slldeshow, Jesuit Volunteer 
"Love in the City", Annenberg Auditorium

Groups, T.J. Conley, Center for Social Con­
•7:30 P.M.· FLOC meetina, Notre Dame sup­

cerns 
port group Center for Social Concerns

•4:30 P.M. -Seminar, "Self-splicing mes­
•9:00 P.M. · 10:30 P.M.·Junior Class Study

senger RNA", Dr. PhilipS. Perlman, Ohio State 
Break, Library Lounge, Sponsored by Junior

University, Room 283 Galvin Life Sciences 
Class

Center, Sponsored by Department of Biologi­
•10:00 P.M. -Meeting, Collegiate Jazz Festival 

cal Sciences 
, Main Lobby, Lafortune Student Center, For

•5:30 P.M. -Student-Faculty Dinner, Walsh 
all underclassmen Interested In assistant staff 

Hall South Lounge, Sponsored by Omicron 
positions

Delta Epsilon 
•10:00 P.M. -2:00A.M. · Rejection Night,

•6:00 P.M. · 7:00 P.M. -Lecture, "Balancing a 
Alumni -Senior Club, Sponsored by Notre

Professional Life", Wayne Pelligrini, Ph.D., 
Dame Accounting Association, Free beer with
each rejection letter. NOAA Members -free,

Sponsored by Alpha Epsilon Delta 
non-members· $2.00 

Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's Roast Pork Loin Baked Meatloaf BeefStroganoffover Noodles Turkey Divan Bacon 
Bean Tostadas Broccoli Quiche Baked Breaded Fish 

TV Tonight , 
6:00P.M. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 CBS Sp«lal: We Are Th~ World 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Who's the Boss 6:30P.M. 16 NBC Nightly News 34 NOVA 22 CBS Evening News 8:30P.M. 28 Growing Pains 7:00P.M. 16 MASH 46 Blackwood Brothers 22 Three's Company 9:00P.M. 16 ~Riptide 7:30P.M. 16 Barney Miller 22 CBS Special Movie: Kane and 22 WKRP In Cincinnati Abel 8:00P.M. 16 TheA-Team· 28 Moonlighting 


S~orts 
Notre Dame volleyball players ]til Sugltcb (7), Karen Sapp (6), and Zanette Bennet (12) prepare for tbe block in a match againstPurdue earlier this 

Tuesday, November 19, 1985 -page 12 

Irish split 2 matches, take third in tourney 
By CHUCK EHRMAN 
Sports Writer 
It was not a cheery November weekend for the Notre Dame vol­leyball team. The team's bid at a North Star Conference title in St. Louis, Mo. turned into a tale of high hopes humbled and betrayed. 
Irish head coach Art Lambert wanted nothing more than a win in the tournament, but had to settle for a somewhat different scenerio as his squad· could muster only a split in the weekend action. The one victory and one defeat meant that Notre Dame, who was runner-up in last year's tournament, would get the third-place trophy this time around. 
With the split, the Irish moved their season record to 18-11. This will change tonight, however, when Notre Dame plays host to a strong Eastern Michigan team at 7:30 p.m. at the ACC. 
At the conference tourney, meanwhile, top-dog DePaul won an expected NSC championship. The Irish never even got to play the Blue Demons, though, because of a bye which left the Irish idle on Friday. 
Notre Dame did play on Saturday, however, although this became doomsday for the Blue-and-Gold. 
In their first match the Irish faced Butler, a team that had given the Irish fits during the season. Once again this was the case, as Notre Dame fell in four games: 15-5, 11-15, 5-15 and 8-15. The loss sent the Irish scrambling for solutions. 
Lambert's troops must have found something in their search, for next up was Loyola, a team the Irish would go on to defeat for the third­place prize. In this match, Notre Dame was able to handle the Ramblers with few problems and salvage the trip to St. Louis, winning 15-13 and 1 ';-6 in the best·of-three match. 
All in all, the Irish won something and lost something in the same day. The team took third place but lost a bit ofpride along the way. 
Now the Irish must get ready for the Herons-of Eastern Michigan, a team which has established itself as a legitimate power in the NCAA. It is one of two final home matches, the final match being Saturday against nationally-ranked Arizona State. 

Rugby Club has success without campus fame 
When a team from Notre Dame is having a really success­
ful season one would expect that much of the campus 
would know about it. But there is a relatively unknown 
team which has a 9-1 record and has an honest shot at win­
ning a regional championship. 

This team is the Notre Dame Rugby Club. Quietly the team has won nine straight games and has qualified for the Midwest Rugby Union tournament in April. 
"Talent-wise this is the best team I've ever been as­sociated with," said Club President Phil Sheridan. "The teams of the past couple years have been good, but this team is the best." 
This boast is supported by the team's play in the Indiana Rugby Union Tournament. In a crucial match against Purdue, the Irish were down to the Boilermakers, 16-2, at the half. But Notre Dame fought backand evened the score at 24 on the last play ofregulation time. Then, two minutes into the sudden-death overtime, the Irish scored to win the match, 26-24. 
The tejlm proceeded to defeat Ball State and Indiana State to take the title and earn a berth in the regional tournament. 
"With the way we've been playing, I feel we definitely have a -shot at the regional title," said Sheridan. 
Perhaps the most impressive performer on this talented team is flyback Bill Young. Although the team does not have official scoring stats, Young is probably the top 
Pete Gegen 
Club Corner 

The Rugby Club will resume play a few weeks before spring break with two or three more matches before playing in the Midwest Union tournament. 
• 

The Notre Dame Women's Cross Country Club wrapped up its five-meet season last month. The team's best perfor­mance came at the Loyola (Chi.) Lakefront Invitational, where the team placed ninth out of 1 7 teams. The Irish women also ran well at the North Star Conference meet, but because of their club status they were classified as an exhibition team and were not allowed to place in the team standings. 
"Overall, we were pleased with our performance this season," said Club President Mary Beth Fiske. "We com­peted against some strong varsity programs and proved that we can be relatively competitive." 
The team was led by a trio ofsophomores, Julia Merkel, Kathleen Lehmen, and Nancy Laughlin. Injuries hurt the team as Fiske missed the entire season and senior Anne Attea was slowed by a sprained ankle. 
This year the team was fortunate in having Dan Ryan, a former all-American runner, as coach for the club. 
• 
The Notre Dame Women's Soccer Club also wrapped up its season last month, finishing with a 3-7 record. Victories were recorded against St. Mary's, Hope College, and Nazareth. 
"This year we played better ball against better competi­tion," noted Club President Karen Moritz. "The freshmen did especially well. Some moved right into starting spots. 
"The future of the program looks bright," she continued. "The freshmen and the the sophomores are the type who will stay with it through senior year." 
The team moves indoor for the winter season, and will resume outdoor play in March. 


Cards' centerfielder Willie McGee gets 1985 National League MVP 

NEW YORK -Batting champion Willie McGee, the flashy center fielder of the National League cham­pion St. Louis Cardinals, was named the NL's Most Valuable Player by the Baseball Welters Association of America yesterday. 
McGee received 14 first-place votes from a 24-writer panel, two from each league city, and finished with 280 points. 

Dave Parker of the Cincinnati Reds, who led the league with 125 runs batted in, finished second with six firsts and 220 points. Pedro Guerrero of the NL West champion Los Angeles Dodgers was third with three firsts and 208 points and pitcher Dwight Gooden of the New York Mets, who won the Cy Young Award last week, finished fourth with one first and 162 points. 
Tommy Herr of St. Louis, Gary 
Carter of New York, Dale Murphy of Atlanta, Keith Hernandez of New York, John Tudor of St. Louis and Jack Clark ofSt. Louis completed the top 10. 
McGee, Parker and Guerrero were the only players listedon all 24 ballots. Points were assigned 14-9-8­7-6-5-4-3-2-1 with voters asked to list 1 0 players on their ballots. 
McGee became the ninth Cardinal player to win the NL batting title, hit­ting .353 last season. It was, the hig­hest average ever ror a NL switch hitter, topping the mark of .348 by Frankie Frisch of the New York Giants in 1923 and matched by Pete Rose in 1969. Mickey Mantle ofthe New York Yankees set the major league mark in 1957 when he batted 
.365. 
Batting second in the Cardinal lineup, McGee led the league with 216 'hits and 18 triples. He scored 114 runs, third in the league and, with rookie leadoff man Vince Coleman, served as the catalyst for the racehorse St. Louis attack which 
home  runs  in  Game  3. His  24  
putouts  in  the  seven  games  tied  
another record.  

McGee became the 14th Cardinal MVP winner since the BBWAA began the award in 1931. The last one was Hernandez, now with the New York Mets, who shared the award in 1979 with Pittsburgh's Willie Stargell. 
Gooden and Tudor, who was second in the Cy Young voting, were the only pitchers to finish in the MVPtop 10. 
The American League MVP award will be announced tomorrow night. 
being c/ul.§ed down by Los Angeles Dodger's second baseman Steve Sax tn a game last season, was named tbeNational League MVP for 
1985. More information aboutMcGee's award ts at left. 





