
Quake update -page4 

VOL XX, NO. 22 the indcpcndnll ~lutknt Ill'\\ ~paper ~lT\ ing 11111n danK and ~ami man·~ TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 198S. 
•

Notre Dame landmark damaged Ill fire 
By DAN McCULLOUGH "There were more candles than become over heated and chip or fall News Editor I've ever seen," he said. "That's be­off in blocks, he said. cause people had all afternoon to Many of the stones that compose 
A fire swept through the Our Lady light them." the outer wall of the Grotto were of Lourdes Grotto on the Notre Bland said the fire began at 2:58 cracked and large pieces ofstone lay Dame campus early yesterday mor­a.m. yesterday when the heat caused on the ground in front of the 
ning, cracking the stone walls, mel­some candles to fuse together, for­wrought-iron racks. ting the wrought-iron candle racks ming the blaze. The ftre enveloped The maintanence department has and blackening the statue of the Vir­other candles, melting the wrought­already contacted a contractor to gin Mary. iron candle racks and filling the in­repair the damaged Grotto, accord­
No injurit·s wert· reported from terior of the Grotto with flames. The ing to Father Daniel Jenky, rector of the fire. although damage was blaze then blew upwards, blacken­Sacred Heart Church. The church is "substantial," according to Glenn ing the statue of the Virgin Mary and responsible for the upkeep of the Terry, director of Notre Dame scorching the trees above the Grotto. Security. Grotto. Jenky said no timetable or cost es­
A cost estimate of the damage has The structure of the Grotto, timate has been established yet for not yet been determined. which is made up of great boulders the repair ofthe structure. 
The tire started when the candles weighing up to three tons, was ap­Sacristans from Sacred Heart in the Grotto overheated, according parently not seriously damaged. Church entered the burned-out to Jack Bland, Notre Dame fire safety Firefighters from the Notre Dame Grotto yesterday morning to director. "There was a build-up of ftre department responded to a tip retrieve the donations from the heat from all the candles lit over the from an anonymous caller, said large metal boxes beneath the weekend by the visitors," he said. Bland. The ftre was extinguished twisted metal of the candle racks. 
The campus wa.~ filled with with more than 500 gallons ofwater While they were able to take the visitors la.'it weekend because of the and with foam. Bland said the foam money from one of the boxes, the Notre Dame-Michigan State football was needed because water would be other box's lock was m~lted and game. ineffective on the hydrocarbons and they were unable to open it, said 
The Grotto apparently had more wax from the candles. sacristan Anthony Szakaly. candles than usual because of the The firemen put out the fire at Father Edmund Joyce, executive football weekend, said Anthony 3:3'> a.m., 37 minutes after it was vice president ofthe University, and Szakaly, a sacristan from Sacrted reported. Father William Beauchamp, ex-Heart Church. Candles were placed Most of the damage from the ftre beneath the racks, a.'i well as in the was caused by "spawling," said 
Bland. occurs when stones 

NAACP chapter adds minority focus 
By MAE WHITEMAN ing Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Mary's student or faculty member NewsSttlff College students on campus and who agrees to comply with the prin­beyond." ciples and policies ofthe Association 
Notre Dame's newly-chartered "We want to enlighten the public may become a member. chapter of the NAACP will attempt with any vital information we The organization had its begin­to answer the University's "apparent research or attain through the na­ning when West and nine fellow stu­inability to recruit a respectable tional chapter and provide support dents approached the Indiana state number of black students," accord­groups for minority students," he president of the NAACP, who ing to Gary Cooper, a member ofthe said. outlined how to start a chapter. All chapter's organizational committee. Lester Flemons, who helped form summer students worked in 
The first meeting ofthe chapter of the organizational committee, preparation for the beginning of the the National Association for the Ad­agreed with West. chapter. vancement of Colored People was "I wonder if the administrators As stated in the constitution for held Sunday and consisted primarily realize or care about the minority college chapters, the purpose and ofits leaders informing the members situation," he said. aims of the organization "shall be to of the organization's purposes and Flemons also quoted the stance improve the political, educational, 
goals. behind the NAACP: "Equal justice social and economic status of 
Cooper said the chapter hopefully should be done to man as man." minority groups; to eliminate racial would he a satisfactory answer to Approximately 40 people at­prejudice; to keep the public aware "Notre Dame's apparent inability to tended the meeting. The low tur­of the adverse effects of racial dis­recruit a respectable number of nout, West said, was "indicative of crimination; and to take all lawful ac­black students and the need for the the Notre Dame study ethic." tion to secure its elimination ..." improvement of the disposition of Over 40 people currently are The meeting ended with the black students at Notre Dame." signed up as members, but West said introduction of Melva Martin, presi­
Carlton West, the organizational they hoped to enroll 300 to 400 dent of the South Bend chapter. committee chairman, said he hopes members. 
see NAACP, page 3 

"to provide a forum for issues affect-Any enrolled Notre Dame or Saint 

Phol"" by Prtc Lach<o 
A fire early yesterday morning left the Grotto atNotre Dame with extensive damage (photos left and above). An estimate bas notyet beengiven on the cost to repair the 89-year-old replica ofthe shrine atLourdes, France. (story above). 


Senate debates ~nove to see Observer books 

By CHRIS BEDNARSKI allow them to monitor it..'i ex­Senior StaffReporter penditures. "We pay 20 to $25,000 in ad­
"It's a student newspaper and the vertising to The Observer each year. students should have a right to see That's 11 percent of the students its books," said Student Body Presi­money," Broussard said at last dent Bill Healy, during a discussion night's meeting. "We wonder why of The Observer at last night's Stu­the Observer made an Sl1 ,000 
dent Senate meeting. profit last year and their rates went 
After a meeting last Tuesday, up." twelve student leaders had re­Hamilton said last Wednesday quested to see The Observer's finan­that The Observer is already ac­cial statements from last year. countable to student..'i because it 
Observer Editor-in-Chief Sarah operates under the University's Hamilton declined to release the Budget Unit Control system. statements earlier in the week. "The biggest threat I see is that 
Junior Class President Jim they want to monitor our ex­Domagalski, speaking at last night's penditures and I think there is a risk senate meeting, said The Observer for all students oflosing an indepen­should open its books to students. dent newspaper," Hamilton said. 
"It's not an attempt by anyone to The Observer currently is paying tell them what to do," said off two loans of approximately Domagalski. "It's a student right to $100,000 for a new computer sys­see their books." tem and typesetter, Hamilton said 
Lee Broussard, Student Activities last Wednesday. Board manager, had called the She also said increased costs, in­meeting last Tuesday of student cluding t.hose in phone rates and government and student media newsprint, necessitated the increase 
leaders to discuss The Observer. in ad rates. 
The leaders, citing The Observer's Senator K.C. Culum said at last increase in advertising rates this night's meeting that The Observer year, voted to request that the stu­
see SENATE, page 4 

dent newspaper open its books and 


The Observer Tuesday, September 24, 1985-page 2 

In Brief ­
Kevin Hurley, the Howard Hall freshman injured in a hit-and-run accident on Sept. 7, remained in critical condition in intensive care last night, a Memorial Hospital intensive care nurse said. Hurley is recoveringfrom multiple head and abdominal injuries suffered in the early morning accident. -The Obseroer 
Totaling $9 millionso far, proceeds from the all-star FarmAid benefit concert appeared to be running short of the goal yesterday but organizers said they would be happy if the event trig­gered new interest in farmers' problems. By the time the 14-hour concert ended and 50 stars of country, rock and blues had left the stage early yesterday, FarmAid had raised more than $9 million. That was way below singer Willie Nelson's prediction ofraising $50 mil­lion. Nelson, who organized Sunday's show, said FarmAid received about $4 million from corporate donations and ticket sales, and roughly $5 million in pledges from television viewers and radio lis­teners. But tabulation of the pledges was incomplete. The FarmAid money will be used for cash grants to needy farmers, legal aid, coun­seling and job training, a nationwide information hotline and a cam­paign to increase awareness of farm problems. -AP 
Marilyn Monroe sounded despondent about losing her contract with 20th Century-Fox when actor Peter Lawford spoke with her the day she committed suicide more than 23 years ago, according to a police file released yesterday. The actress, who died of a drug overdose, bade President John F. Kennedy and Law­ford goodbye in a slurred voice the night of her death Aug. 4, 1962, according to the inch-thick investigative file into her death. The file was released because of numerous public requests for access to the reports, said Police ChiefDaryl Gates. It included telephone records, autopsy results and police interviews with those who talked to Monroe in her final days. -AP 

Of Interest 
A mass for Kevin Hurley will be celebrated by University President Father Theodore Hesburgh at Sacred Heart Church today at S p.m. -The Obseroer 
The Notre Dame College Republicans 
will hold a mandatory meeting for all hall representatives tonight at 7 in the New Orleans Room ofLaFortune Student Center. Ifyou are a hall representative and for any reason unable to attend, contact Jim Adrian, [he club chairman, at 283-3094 as soon as possible. -The Obseroer 
"The Silent Scream", a 30-minute-long documen­tary on the pro-life movement, narrated by former abortionist Dr. Bernard Nathanson, will be shown tonight at 9:30 in the Center for Social Concerns multipurpose room. The film is sponsored by Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Right to Life. -The Obseroer 
Clean up on low priced, dirty, dusty and otherwise damaged books at the Dirty Book Sale tomorrow and Thursday from 9 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. in the Memorable library concourse. They're abused but totally readable. Cloth-backed books will cost $1.25, paperbacks, $.75. All new and recent titles will be 20 percent off their regular price. -The Obseroer 


Weather 
Go backto bedand take advantage ofthis weather to get some sleep. You'll be glad you did as it's going to be cloudy, breezy and cool today with a 40-percent chance ofrain and drizzle. The high will be in the low to mid 60s. Clearing and cool tonight with the low in the low to mid 40s. Mostly sunny skies are ex­pected tomorrow with the high in the middle 

and upper 60s. -AP 

_ lhe Obeerver (USPS 599 2·4000) is publish~d Monday through Friday and on home footbaU Saturdays, except during ~xam and vacation periods. lhe Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's CoUege. Subscriptions may be purchased for 530 per year ( S20 per se· mester) by writing lhe Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 1he Observer is a member of lhe Associated Pftss. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Today's issue was produced by: 
Design Editor..............................Tom SmaU Design Assistant.............. Tracy Schindele Layout Staff............................. Y.Men Webb Typesetters ...................... Suzann~ Hamm~r 

Bill Highducheck News Editor ............................. Scou Bearby Copy Editor ...................... Mark Pankowski Sports Copy Editor....................... Phil Wolf Viewpoint Copy Editor .......... Miriam Hill Viewpoint Layout.................... Miriam HiU Daily Quotes .......................... Tom Darrow Features Copy Editor................... Ed Nolan Features Layout ............ Mark Mclaughlin ND Day Editor......................... Doug Hasler SMC Day Editor.................... Priscilla Y.Mie Ad Design ............................ Sharon Emmite 
Mary C. Creadon Photographer ............................ Pete Laches Typist .......................................... CoUe~n Foy 


Only stereotypes Jnake woinen different on both sides of U.S. 31 
"It is never too late to give up our prejudices." 
-Heney David Thoreau 
After receiving my acceptance letter from Saint Theresa A. Mary's in high school, I happened to mention to a friend, who was a year younger, where I was planning to Guarino go to school. He proceeded to congratulate me on a fine 
choice, but included a warning: "Keep away from those Saint Mary's Executive Editor 
t; 
Notre Dame girls. My brother told me they hate you ·-------------------111111­
SMC's." Such was my introduction to the women of Notre Dame. 
I came to South Bend the following fall ready to join everything and meet everyone -except for Notre Dame women. My friends and I went to the ACC dance and dorm parties (before the alcohol policy era) · and we looked with suspicion upon the Notre Dame women, just as they were no doubt viewing us. 
Looking back now, it all seems ridiculous. But the reason for doing it seems clear. Women on either campus come to South Bend 
It's interesting to note that the ongm of many derogatory comments on the women ofthe community come from the men of the community. Perhaps the at· titude began something like this: Notre Dame was an all-male school for so long, that the first women here were considered unfeminine. And once Notre Dame ad­mitted women, anyone who "settled" for Saint Mary's had to be cute, but not too intelligent. 
Tell these to a Saint Mary's or Notre Dame woman today and their response will be your answer to the validity of these in 1985. Yet they often will believe these images in regard to each other. 
Stereotypes cannot be ended, however, by debating their origin. Any sociology student can tell you that prejudices end when "enemies" are forced to meet a common goal together. This may be why organizations containing women of both schools working together consistently, also contain women who see supposed an­tagonism as exaggerated. 
---~ 
..... 
...... 

--~ ­-
-_., ­



----... ­
.. 
EXPLORE THE TECHNICALWORLD AT IBM 
SEE US AT INDUSTRY DAY! 
IBM will be on campus September 25, 1985 participating in Engineering Council/SWE Industry Day. We are combining our regularly scheduled November Career Day with this activity. Ifyou are a 1986 graduate and your degree is in Electrical Engineering, Computer Engineering, or Math with Computer Science, please bring copies of your resume or profile form and stop by to see us at Fitzpatrick Hall Concourse between 9:00a.m.-4:00p.m. 
Ifyou are unable to attend, IBM will be l;>ack on campus February 18-20, 
1986 for our Spring Recruiting! 
IBM is an equal oportunity employer. 
The danger of stereotyping is it can perpetuate an unending cycle. By not wanting to meet and get to know each other, nothing can be learned. When not­hing is learned, old prejudices cannot be dispelled. 
Expected and pre-conceived images ofothers have to be harder to get rid of then those gained while already here. 
The old Notre Dame-Saint Mary's equality and stereotypingargument is getting oldfor those who have been around for a few years. But for the newly arrived 
freshmen on both campuses, 
hand with an open mind. And for the women of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, an open mind about each other can go far in dispelling old prejudices and preventing new ones. 
Get Involved! 
The Observer has positions open for evening layout work. Two hours a week. No experience is necessary. 
with an expectation -they are not going to like the females on the opposite side ofU.S. 31. 
Today, many old stereotypes have become exaggerated, but women still arrive here with pre­conceived notions of each other. Why do these still ex­ist at all? Probably because old stereotypes die hard. 
All students are familiar with them, and by senior year, it's old hat. Debbie Domer wears old gym clothes and eats ice cream, ====' 
Suzy SMC chooses new nail polish and a man to go with cr-2.'1 it. 

there is still time to create a difference in attitude. 
Men have nothing to gain by stereotyping the women on both campuses. And women have nothing to gain by not giving cooperation a chance. 
Senior year, students will be choosing career paths that could be disasterous if they rely on the stereotype of a company or graduate school, instead ofexamining the institution itself. After graduation, most co­workers will not take kindly to being placed in a slot by a new employee. 
Maturity goes hand in 
The Observer 

Dorothy Feigl 

Saint Mary's students! 
Need to publicize an event? Need to place a classifi~d ad? Have a compliment or gripe? 
Ihe~Obsener___ :-:ggar 
Center 


Students & Faculty 
SAVE  
• Nosignup fee.  UP TO  • Start saving today by  
• Nomonthly  40%  callinSA~ERLINE  
service fee.  at  
• Nominimum  ON YOUR  1-800-742-0528 or dial direct  
usage ...  LONG  1-812-232-2496  
pay only  Monday through  
for what  DISTANCE  Friday Bam  
you use.  to  Spm 
PHONE  
CALLS  
~  
~~~c  
~~  
SAVERLINE  
COlUOl\ATIOH  
TM loJIC IUta:uc tif(crw:uc  

Tuesday, September 24, 1985 -page 3 



Feigl naiDed to high-level post 
By PEGGY PROSSER 
News Staff 

As the search for a president at Saint Mary's continues, Dorothy Feigl has risen to the rank of acting vice president and dean offaculty. 
Feigl replaced William Hickey, who took over the presidency after the retirement ofJohn Duggan. 
In making the announcement, Hickey said, "Dr. Feigl is one of the most highly respected members of our faculty and she brings con­siderable administrative experience to the position." 
Feigle, who joined the Saint Mary's faculty in 1966, said she likes the new perspective her position gives her. 
"I like the new view it gives me of the College," she said. "I have a bet­ter vantage point towards the ac­hievements and problems of the school." 
Feigl, who was a former chairman and professor in the department of chemistry and physics at the Col­lege, said her one regret was being unable to continue teaching. 
"I miss teaching terribly," she said. "I'm at core a teacher." 
During her tenure at the College, Feigl's reputation as an outstanding teacher has earned her both the Spes Uriica Award for excellence in teaching and service to the College, and the Maria Pieta Award, in recognition of her skill, dedication and excellence in teaching of lower division courses. 
Among her duties, Feigl chairs the Computer Utilization Committee, which oversees a new concept designed to improve word process· ing capabilities for students. "It gives students a much easier access to doing and redoing work," Feigl said. 
Feigl also monitors the general academic progress of the College, interviews potential faculty mem­bers, and sits in on both the Educa­tion Committee and the Committee for Faculty Development. 
Her title is contractually for a year, but the installment of the new president will determine its actual · length. 
Feigl, who serves as spokesperson for the Presidential Search Commit­tee, could not give any details as to the committee's progress. 
Feigl said the new science hall renovation was progressing well. 
"It's coming along spectacularly and moving at a very good pace. It's being closely watched by keenly in­terested and technically adept science faculty," she said. 
"I get daily reports from them, and everyone is excited about the project," Feigl said. 
Feigl praised the Board of Gover­nance for their accessibility to stu­dents and faculty. "Saint Mary's Governance is geared to people's opinions and is always willing to lis­ten to problems or complaints," she said. 
Feigl said she would like to see more tenured positions among the faculty. She also said both tenured and non-tenured professors are vital to the College, and should work together to continue the tradition of academic excellence Saint Mary's of­fers. 
Feigl seemed optimistic in sum­ming up her views of the College. 
"Enrollment is very strong. It's a vital school," Feigl said. "Programs are strong, the student body is well qualified. 
"It's a very positive reflection of the times," she said, adding, "This school has a great deal to offer people, and we want to make sure It stays that way." 

Board of Governance looks to end ND/SMC conflicts 
By KIMBERLY TRENNER 
Senior StaffReporter 

The recent conflicts between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents, aired in an Observer sports column and in the · newspaper's viewpoint section, were discussed at last night's Board of Governance meeting. 
"Something should be said, these things should not go on," said Ann Marie Kollman, Saint Mary's student body president. 
Kollman said she plans to write a letter with Bill Healy, Notre Dame student body president, stating the need for good relations between the two schools. 
The controversy regarding the price of football tickets was cited as one of the issues which should be put to rest. "I think we should feel privileged to get those tickets," said Kollman. 
The general consensus among the board was that the reasons behind higher ticket costs for Saint Mary's students were sound and justified. 
"If we do not want to be Notre Dame and we want to be a small school than we should not expect to get everything the Notre Dame stu­dents get," said Eileen Hetterich, secretary of the board. 
Other board members com­plained that many of the letters and articles being written did not express their views. 
Mentioned were Erin O'Brien's recent viewpoint column on co­education at Saint Mary's and Kelly Portolese's sports column about the lack ofequality in the pricing offoot­ball tickets. 
Such columns have spurred con­troversial responses from Notre Dame students in letters printed in The Observer. 
"I think we should be proud ofour school and not try to be like Notre Dame, as some girls wish," said Kol­lman. "Both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students have the unique op­portunity to get both a small college and large university experience," she said. 
In other matters, it was an­nounced that gymnast Kathy Rigby will be speaking on campus at the little Theater on Monday, Oct. 7 at 
7:30 p.m. Rigby's presentation, sponsored by student government, will deal with both mental and physical fitness. 
Rigby will also relate her ex­periences with anorexia and bulimia. There will be no charge for college students, and a $2 admission fee for the general public. 
Also discussed at the meeting was the recent Beautiful Room Contest. One of the problems with the con­test cited by the board was the con­test's lack of organization. 
"Many of the housekeepers did not show up for the judging," said Lori Janko, president ofLeMans Hall. 
The contest, held yesterday, was the first of its kind. 
Two clubs were also approved by the board last night. One was the Al­cohol Education Council, designed to educate the community on al­coholic issues and to plan non­alcoholic social activities, and the other was RASTA, a group which at­tempts to raise awareness of the problem ofhunger. 

NAACP 
continuedfrom page 1 
Martin told the chapter "to call on (the South Bend chapter) for help, but we will also be calling on you." 
The chapter is now in the process of recruiting members. The next general meeting, which will consist ofan election ofofficers, will be held once the potential officers are inter­viewed by the organizational com­mittee. 
The Joint Engineering Council 
and 
The Society of Women Engineers present: 
JII.VItSJIJYIJIIlllllJII( JIJIIJI)IlJMJf/!lir JI)Al Jr /11Jillf 
Wednesday, September 25th 
llldultly Fllr 
9:00 am to 4:00 pm on the first floor of Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering 

llldultly .,., lalqllot 
6:30pm to 8:30pm in the ACC Monog.ra.m Room 
• 
28 companies represented 

• 
contact making for seniors 

• 
summer internship opportunities for underclassmen 

• 
bring resumes 

• 
learn more about engineering as a career 



The Observer 

Death toll rises in Mexico quake 
Aaaoclated Press  were injured by the quakes, which  More  than  50 specially trained  
smashed the heart of this city of 18  dogs were sent from France, Italy,  
MEXICO CilY-Rescue workers  million  people.  The  number  of  Switzrland, West Germany, and the  
said yesterday they tunneled into  people left homeless was estimated  United States.  
the ruins of a government technical  at 300,000.  Other rescuers found IS-month­ 
school and found  26 survivors of  President Reagan's wife, Nancy,  old Jessica Alonso on Sunday. She  
Mexico's  two  killer  earthquakes.  came on a brief mission of inspec­ had been buried for 80 hours next to  
They said  more  people might be  tion and sympathy, bringing a U.S.  the body of her mother, and started  
alive under the debris.  government check for Sl million to  crying  when  one  of her  saviors  
At a collapsed apartment building,  help in relief efforts.  picked her up.  
.a German shepherd rescue dog named Bobby sniffed and pawed at a spot in the ruins. An hour's digging freed 20-month-old Patricia Aguirres, dehydrated but otherwise unhurt despite being entombed since the quakes~ Thursday and Friday. Police and the attorney general's office said the death toll in Mexico City stood at 2,822 yesterday and the president's office said about 100 people were killed elsewhere in Mexico. Police said 4,180 people were missing. The State Department said in Was­hington that 3,461 were known dead throughout the area struck by  She toured the city for 3% hours, visiting survivors at refugee centers and a Red Cross hospital in the com­pany of Paloma Cordero de Ia Madrid, wife of President Miguel de Ia Madrid. Pope John Paul II said a special Mass for the quake victims at his summer palace at Castel Gandolfo, in the Alban hills south ofRome. Dozens of flights arrived from abroad with with rescue squads, demolition experts, medicine, tem­porary shelters, food and clothing. German Oropewz Gonzalez, coordinator of the rescue effort at the Conalep technical school, said there were hopes of finding more  The government solicited private and corporate donations to a na­tional rebuilding fund. The quakes are estimated to have cam~ed billions of dollars in damage to Mexico, whose economy is in recession and laboring under a $96 billion foreign debt. Demolition work on the es­timated 450 damaged buildings con­tinued, but cautiously because of hope that more survivors might be found. A principle concern is the pos­sible outbreak of disease because of the decaying bodies and severe shortage ofpotable water.  
the  quakes,  including  five  survivors.  City  officials  said  hundreds  of  
Americans. There was no immediate  "We think there are more people  bodies still unclaimed in temporary  
explanation of the discrepancy. The  trapped alive inside," he said. "A dog  morgues  would  be  buried  or  
State Department said it based its  was brought in and detected some­ cremated  to  reduce  the  risk  of  
figure on information from Mexican  thing. We are going to dig another  disease.  
authorities.  tunnel. We heard some noises, but  At the old Seguro Social baseball  
Mexico's federal  health  depart­ we could not determine the loca­ park, bodies were stacked in white  
ment said  at  least  11,000 people  tion~"  plastic bags awaiting identification.  


Senate 
continuedfrom page 1 
should open its books, but added, "They didn't increase their rates to make more money. They are just trying to be more efficient." 
Karen Ingwersen, Judicial Coun­cil coordinator, said The Observer should not be required to open its books. like Culum, she also said the student newspaper isn't trying to make more money. 
"They have a lot of debts right now," she said. "The only way they can cover it by raising advertising rates." 
In other senate business, the senate also considered a resolution by Senator Chris Abood that would establish an SS,OOO contingency 
• fund for the senate. 
The funds would come from an approximate no,ooo in student ac­tivities fees that have become available from an underestimation by the University of the number of students who would enroll this year and thus pay the fee. 
"Student government budgeted for S245,000 but now has $256,000 in its account," said Student Body Treasurer Eric Parzianello. 
Domagalski said he would like the extra money distributed to classes. 
r "To have a contingency fund set up 
r when others need the money is a bad idea," he said. John Spatz, senior class president, ~ agreed with Domagalski. "We represent three-quarters of the stu­
r dentbody. 
r "We get a measly S3400 at the beginning of the year," Spatz said. Right now, our economic state isn't the best." 
The resolution was tabled until next week to give Abood time to submit the proposal in writing. 
O~Holy &. JudeClpOGie and martyr 
.,emIn ulrtui\(Jrld {lch In mirada 
nearldMmtmpfJau. Chn.t. Faltliful 
lnt-tofall who ltnxtlce your 
palro~U~f~e .In tfme oJ.need 


To you haue recoUtWe/rom the depth myheart and humbly be whom haa flluen.uch greatpo~~~er to come to my-'«once. Help meIn y ptaent and urgent petition. In 
r 
I praml.e to make your name 
r 
and cau.e you to be lnoolced. 

r three OurFathera, three IMary'• tmd three Gloriafor nine 
~ . PubllcatfoM mll8t be promiNd and all lllho lnoolce )IOU ald. 
Amen 'J'ht. novena hu never been known to fail THANK-YOU ST. JUDE. 
Tuesday, September 24, 1985 -page 4 

With only his belongings, clothing and a potted plant, a Mexico City resident picks up to search for a new home following the devastating quake that leveled parts ofthe city leaving thousands homeless. 
Electrical Engineera...Computer Scientists... 
Mathematiciana...Language Specialists. 
The National Security Agency analyzes foreign signals, safeguards our government's vital com­munications and secures the government's massive computer systems~ 
NSA's unique, three-fold mission offers you unheard of career opportunities. Here are just a few of the exciting possibilities: 
Electrical Engineering. Research and develop­ment projects range from individual equipments to complex. interactive systems involving micro­processors, mini-computers and computer graphics. Facilities for engineering analysis and design automation are among the most advanced anywhere~ 
Computer Science. Interdisciplinary careers in­clude systems analysis and design. scientific applica­tions programming, data base management systems, operating systems, graphics, computer security and networking-all in one of the world's largest com­puter installations. 
Mathematics. Projects involve giving vitally im­portant practical applications to mathematical con­cepts. Specific assignments could include solving communications-related problems, performing long­range mathematical research or evaluating new techniques for computer security. 
Language Specialists. Challenging assignments for Slavic, Near-Eastern and Asian language majors include rapid translation, transcription and analysis /reporting~ Newly-hired language specialists may receive advanced training in their primary language(s). 
In addition to providing you with unheard of chal­lenges, NSA offers a highly competitive salary and benefits package. Plus, you'll have the chance to live in one of the most exciting areas of the country­between Washington, D.C., and Baltimore, Md~ 
Sound good? Then find out more~ Schedule an in­terview through your College Placement Office or write to the National Security Agency. 
NSA will be on campus October 11, 1986. l!br an appointment, contact your placement office. 
Limited summer opportunities for juniors majoring in Electrical Engineering, Computer Science and the above for Jign languages. 
ATTN: M322(N) Fort Meade, MD 20766-6000 
U.S. Citizenship required. An equal opportunity employer. 
·' 


~~-~­

The Observer Tuesday, September 24, 1985 -page 5 
Secret Ineeting frees hostage 
Associated Press conference Thursday, when he ex­At the time, the spokesman had plained why he was not at the Sept. refused to elaborate or to say whet­
Vernon Walters, the United States I7 opening of the U.N. General As­her U.S. diplomats had such discus­ambassador to the United Nations, sembly. sions before Weir's release. made a secret visit to Syria to gain When asked why he was not at the 
Six other Americans remain
the release of the Rev. Benjamin opening, Walters replied that he was captive in Lebanon. They are TerryWeir, an American held captive in on a mission for his government, hut Anderson, chief Middle East cor·
Lebanon for 16 months, NBC news he refused to elaborate. The U.N. reported yesterday. mission had said at the time that respondent 
for The Associated Walters met with Syria's President 
Walters wasn't there because he was Press; William Buckley, U.S. embassy Hafez Assad for four hours, NBC said 
out of the country. political officer; Peter Kilburn, a in the report, which cited no 
Weir was freed on Sept. I4 by his librarian at the American University sources. It also did not state when Lebanese kidnappers. Walters met with Assad. The United States has consistently of Beirut; Father Lawrence Jenco, a Irene Payne, a press spokes­ruled out negotiations with ter­Roman Catholic priest; David Jacob­woman at the U.S. mission to the rorists, but last week, State Depart­sen, director of the American lJni­United Nations, had no comment on ment spokesman Bernard Kalb said, versity hospital; and 'Ibomas the report and said Walters would "We are willing to discuss the safety Sutherland, dean of agriculture at go no further than he had at his news ofthe American hostages." the university. 

NOW head urges rights passage 
Associated Press about I 50 people on the campus of challenged effectively. Indiana University-Purdue Univer­Those gains "are being unraveled 
INDIANAPOLIS -Eleanor Smeal, sity at Indianapolis. with rapid speed, and the opposition president of the National Organiza­"They're going to make us crawl. knows what it is doing," Smeal said, tion of Women, warned last night They're going to make us squirm," her voice rising. The Reagan ad­that "bigotry is getting to be OK she said, describing conservative ef­ministration, she added, is "gutting again" and urged an audience to forts to attach a rider to the bill several major pieces of legislation push for passage of the Civil Rights which would prohibit federal fun­guaranteeing civil rights for people." 
The ObKrver/Hector Mareno 

Restoration Act of 198'). ding toward abortion.
Facing reality 
Smeal, who on Sept. 1 began her The Civil Rights Restoration Act Smeal said NOW's main push in 
Kate Dascenzo, assistant director of career and placement 
third term as NOW president, said of I985 would restore the inter­promoting the restoration act would 
serr•ices. briefed her audience last night on bow to secure a job 
that unless women and other dis­pretation of the Civil Rights Act of he on college campuses and in cer­
upon lear•ing college. Tbe workshop was sponsored by Career and 
criminated groups fought for I964 and other such legislation as tain congressional districts where 
Plm:ement Serr•ices. 
passage of the act before Congress, previously administered by the the organization felt it had its the Reagan administration and the federal government, and strengthen greatest chance of swaying votes. New Right conservatism that has related federal regulations through The grass roots campaign was in­


Tapes not ad01issible 
gained popularity across the nation the force of law. strumental in passing the bill, she would force them back into being a Smeal said conservatives were said. "cheap labor market." working to repeal the civil rights 
"The right wing ... is cutting in gains achieved by women and "We have to get it before the

in Belushi death case 
every day," Smeal told a minorities over the past two public. The public does not know Assoclakd Press Axton, is accused of causing the predominately female audience of decades, and would do so unless this act," she said. comedian's death by injecting him LOS ANGELES-Most ofa taped in­with heroin. The hearing is to 
• 
terview in which Cathy Evelyn determine whether she will stand Smith purportedly admits killing trial for murder. 

Deaf students' cries go unheard 
John Belushi was ruled inadmissable Nelson, emerging from his cham­
A8110Ciated Press mountain," said Grant County Emer­keep warm when overnight tem­as evidence yesterday by a judge, bers after listening to more than two gency Services administrator peratures dropped into the low 50s,who nonetheless allowed three of hours ofthe 1982 interview with the PETERSBURG, W. Va. -Six deaf Bernice Carr. "They said they saw she said.
her statements to he used. National Enquirer, said the defen­students burned shreds of clothing the1ights ofthe searchers last night. "When it got too cold up high,Municipal Judge James Nelson, dant's statements were "almost for warmth during a chilly night in "They said they tried screaming, they moved into a small hollow,ruling in Smith's preliminary entirely the creation" of the inter­the wilderness before reaching but none of them can scream that where it was warmer," she said.
hearing, also said two National En­viewers. 
safety on their own yesterday, after loudly.Just to think that all that time, "They shared some of those littlequirer reporters need not testify He said that what he heard was an more than 60 searchers were unable we were just a half-hour away from peanut butter cups to eat, but theabout the interview they captured atmosphere of "partying," and that to hear their cries for help, aut­them." first thing they asked firemen for on tape. many of Smith's statements were 
horities said. The students apparently lagged when they came out was some hotBut Nelson said the prosecution made in a. "giggling, laughing, rather The four boys and two girls ages behind on a trail and may have gone food."
n>Uld call free-lance reporter Chris­bubbly response in a gruesome 1 7 to 20 became separated from a offon one of the many trails that jut School Principal Dan Haught said topher Van Ness to the stand to talk situation." 
group of 26 high school students off the main track, thinking it would two of the boys, former Boy Scouts, about a separate taped interview. Such statements, he said, were not from the West Virginia School for join up again later, said Jack Brady, also found berries for the students toVan Ness said he would invoke his admissible. 
the Deaf as they hiked to a scenic superintendent of the school in the eat.
right as a reporter to refuse to testify. Nelson did allow three state­
overlook Sunday afternoon follow­eastern panhandle town ofRomney. "They did real well," Haught said. 
ments: Smith's admission that she 
ing a picnic. "Of course those trails don't join "They stuck together ... They were aBdushi, .H. was found dead of maintained control ofall the needles Rescue crews searched I4 hours up. They go offinto the wilderness," real team. We're real proud of
cocaine and heroin poisoning on used to administer drugs to Belushi, · before the students emerged cold he said. them."
March '), 19Hl, at the Chateau Mar· that she was with Belushi until at and tired, but unharmed, from More than 60 volunteers, state The students were tired and cold 1 mont Hotel in Hollywood. least 7:4 ') a.m. on the day ofhis death woods on the Allegheny Mountain police and forestry officials combed when they arrived at the school yes­Smith, 3H, a hack-up singer to such and a third statement that all heroin front and asked for directions at a the I0,2I 5-acre wilderness for the terday afternoon, Haught said. 
stars as Gordon Lightfoot and Hoyt used by Bdushi was hers, not his. 
house on the outskirts ofthe Monon­students, Carr said. "All they wanted to do was take a gahela National Forest. The students tore up their warm shower and go to bed," he 
l
"They spent the night on the shirtsleeves to use as kindling to said. 
~ 
are blackened with soot, but ot­After completion, the Grotto was herwise undamaged. blessed by Father Wiliam Corby,

Grotto

Jt-ODday mporu 1. 5 All Nigh 
The blackened front of the Grotto who twice served as president ofthe 
j
: Tae•day 25' Drafts All Night continuedfrom page 1 extends along the left and middle University. The shrine was com­Jt .$' See Uve Profeulonal (,~£.,... 75' Shots of parts of the facade. The statue of the pleted largely through the ., Jt-WedDe8day ~ Comedians 10-12 ~, Peach Schnap ecutive assistant to the president, Virgin Mary in the nook above the generosity ofFather Thomas Carroll, : Dancing after 12 All Night : were at the scene of the fire soon right side is also burned. of Oil City, Penn., who at one time ~ Jt-Thanday 75' Shot• of Mello11 Balls All Night Jt-after dawn. A damage report was The leaves of the trees above the was a theological student at Notre 
made at that time, according to Grotto are black, and pieces from Dame.
~ Friday A S.tllrday 75' Shot• of Root Beer All Night : 
Szakaly. the rock walls have cracked and fal­·············•********************~ On the left side of the Grotto, len to the ground. The Grotto is built on the side ofa 
l
where the fire apparently started, all The Grotto was built in I896, and natural mound overlooking St. 
1 the candles were destroyed. Almost has been a center ofdevotion for stu­Mary's Lake on the northwest side of nothing is left there but the dents and visitor ever since. It is a campus. It is the .sight of many .,1 
blackened rock walls and dusty gray replica ofthe world-famous shrine at masses and rosary devotions, as well , debris on the ground. Lourdes, France, where the Virgin as a place members of the Notre ~ On the right side of the Grotto, Mary allegedly appeared to Saint Dame community use for prayer and' however, the candles and the racks Bernadette in 18')8. meditation. 
Do you like to stay on top of things? Know what's going on by being =Obsen!er, Liaison For the Student Activities Board Call Meegan at 239-7605 for more info  
Monday-Thursday 4-10 p.m. 


First exams got you down? Feeling anxious about making the grade? 
Correction 
Call 239· 7793 And ask for tape 38 
Areference to actor Rock Hud­son in yesterday's inside column
''Coping With Stress'' 
was unclear. Hudson has not died, but is suffering from the
-Counseline­
disease AIDS. 
~i~~~_<>__i__ll__t_________________
Tu-es-da-y,_Se-pt-em-be-r-24_,1_98-5--pa-ge-6 
Viewpoint readers and writers must give and take 

In the opening mass this past Sunday Provost Timothy O'Meara, while discussing the Catholic University, considered the "limitations of freedom." According to O'Meara, the "limitations of freedom should be as broad as possible." It is upon this premise that a Viewpoint column is written. The editorial column, like Mill's conscience, must be free to convey any reasoned opinion. 
BffiKrais 
Save the Whales 
AViewpoint column is written by someone who maintains very strong convictions on a certain topic, so strong in fact that they feel compelled to publicize their opinion. The writer is making himself vulnerable to criticisms, both rational and irrational. The columnist is willing to face attacks levied upon him by an often uninformed and un­relenting public, all for a principle. 
The Viewpoint writer, generally speaking, does not write acolumn just to see his name in print, as many would suppose. The column is a self-expression which serves the public by generating controversy and dialogue. It is a writer's dream to hear his column being dis­cussed at lunch, instead oflast Saturday's foot­ball game. But it is a writer's nightmare to hear 
The reader has a responsibility to the writer, particularly if the reader intends to become a respondent. The reader may not ex­ploit the entire article based upon one sen­tence or fragment; a response should answer to the entire argument, not certain con­venient discrepancies. Ifthe reader becomes a respondent, he or she must establish that they have read the article with absolute care and that they are indeed addressing the issue at hand, and not contriving another indepen­dent issue. For example, if the article con­siders as its topic birth control, the reader should not, when responding, dismiss birth control and consider abortion for the sake of convenience; after all, the article was not writ­ten 'about abortion but about birth control. When readers respond without considering the original argument, they are then using the original Viewpoint column as an unjustified forum for their own opinions. 
The ideal Viewpoint addresses an issue as fully as possible while creating some sort of worthwhile controversy. The reader has read the article as it was written and considers it for itself. So in between bites of that turkey salad sandwich, I ask only that you consider the Viewpoint with some care. Thank you. 
Bill Krais is a junior in the Program of Liberal Studies and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
P.O.BoxQ 
More to Saint Mary's than article mentioned 
DearEditor: 
I am writing in response to freshman Erin O'Brien's commentary, "Decision to go coed at Saint Mary's Weighed." Unfortunately, O'Brien misses even more important issues concerning Saint Mary's forbearance from be­coming a coeducational institution. The benefits of attending Saint Mary's College for women run farther and deeper than "freedom to wear underwear in the hallways" or how one dresses and smells for class. 
Saint Mary's, as one of the few successful women's colleges surviving in the United States, is committed to academic excellence. Our education is geared towards women. We at Saint Mary's are taught to believe in our­selves as women and are pushed to reach our fullest potential. We leave Saint Mary's polished and professional.
, 
Certainly, going coed at Saint Mary's would 
r 
make for an interesting change socially. But 
r 
think of what we would have to sacrifice. Presently, we have the best of both worlds, the ability to be a part of a major university 
r 
socially, spiritually and academically, yet the r independence to operate as our own in-
r r 
t 
~ 
r 
r 
his article misconstrued and distorted, to hear people insert points and issues into the column for which the column was never in­tended. 
Above all, it is essential to remember that there exists in an editorial column a symbiotic relationship between the writer and the reader. The writer has an obligation to the reader; he or she must present a substantiated argument, defending all biases and consider­ing most objections (for it is impossible to consider all ofthem). The reader, on the other hand, must consider the article analytically, giving great concern to the author's explicit intentions. When one of these parties fails in their responsibilities, a communication gap is created and misunderstanding flourishes. 
There are then good Viewpoint writers and bad Viewpoint writers. The good ones realize that theirs is just one of many opinions. They are aware of many truths, many right answers. The good columnist suggests one opinion but never asserts that it is gospel. Good Viewpoint writers are human beings with reasoned opinions, not all-knowing sages. 
The bad writers, on the other hand, insist upon having an uncanny insight into the truth. The bad writer implicitly proclaims to be omniscient; they can tell us what is right and what is wrong. Certainly readers are obliged to the bad Viewpoint columnist, for he or she has provided the reader with an invaluable service. The bad writer is the first person to answer all those hard questions put forth by Socrates over 2500 years ago. They leave no room for discourse or debate. After all, it would be foolish to argue that which is un­deniably true. 

Just as there are good writers and bad writers, there are good readers and bad readers. A good reader acknowledges that the Viewpoint column is limited by space. It is es­sential to recognize this restriction. View­point writers are forced into generalizations which often cannot be explicated. A reader who is unaware of this fact inserts their own assumptions and conclusions into an article. They assume that because the writer failed to consider every aspect of a certain issue as a result of space limitations he or she is ig­norant. This presumption of ignorance is un­fair to the writer and easily made by the careless reader. 
The reader should realize that often the writer is not an absolute authority on the topic under consideration, nor does he or she have to be. The writer should not be faulted for not having spent a lifetime in deliberation on the specific topic. The writer is not re­quired to have read every publication, lis­tened to every . speech, or seen every documentary in order to reach a reasonable conclusion. 
"Humanae Vitae." 
And finally, for those who do not remember the bad old days, when Catholics immolated themselves in pursuit ofthe so-called "natural method" of birth control, David Lodge's novel, "The British Museum is Falling Down," is a must. It is a sad and funny book. In a mo­ment of anxious reverie, the novel's hero, a Catholic graduate student, who may be ex­pecting his fourth child in less than five years, "mentally-composed a short article, 'Catholicism, Roman,' for a Martian en­cyclopedia compiled after life on earth had been destroyed by atomic warfare. 
'Roman Catholicism was, according to ar­chaelogical evidence, distributed fairly widely over the planet Earth in the 20th cen­tury. As far as the Western Hemisphere is concerned, it appears to have been charac­terized by a complex system ofsexual taboos and rituals. . . Martian archaeologists have learned to identify the domiciles of Roman Catholics by the presence oflarge numbers of complicated graphs, calendars, small booklets full of figures, and quantities of broken ther­mometers . . . Other doctrines of the Roman Catholics included a belief in a Divine Redeemer and in a life after death. ' " 
Ann Pettifer South Bend 
Quote of the day 
"I had a lover's quarrel with the world." 
Robert Frost 
(1874-1963) 
"The Lesson for Today" 
dividual entity, specializing in our own best interests as women. Quite frankly, I believe that our distinguished heritage and long­lasting reputation as an elite women's liberal art's education speaks for itself. 
Carolyn]. Cutrara Holy Cross Hall 
Politics of Church condemn birth control 
DearEditor: 
It is hard not to have some sympathy for the argumentsJanet Smith makes in her article on birth control. But making birth control the vil­lain will not do. The sad confusion she encounters in her work at the Women's Care Center is more likely to have its roots in sexism, that social disease which makes women vulnerable to exploitation and which discourages self-respect. I share Smith's dis­gust with some ofthe contraceptive measures she listed, but I find it a curious omission not to mentions a contraceptive device which is not abortive, does not involve chemicals and which encourages men to take some respon­sibility. I am speaking, of course, of the con­dom. 

I must say she lost me altogether when she launched her defense of official Roman Cat­holic teaching on birth control. Producing John Paul II as an expert witness on human sexuality takes chutzpah! He is the grand pan­jandrum ofsexism. 
Should we trust a man who can write the following: "Moreover, we cannot leave the af­fairs of the kingdom of God to women ... In men the intellect has a certain supremacy over the heart, and this is why Christ entrusted responsibility for the Gospel as idea to them. Women have a great role to play in the church and in Catholicism; however, the Gospel as idea is primarily a male sphere." The quote is from "The Way to Christ" by John Paul II. Decoded, he is saying women are sen­timental ninnies. 
Surely Smith is familiar with the conclu­sions of the Papal commission on birth control which met in the mid-sixties? Almost unanimously, the commission recommended a reversal of the Church's ban on artificial birth control. That these recommendations were not implemented had to do with Church politics. A conservative faction led by Car­dinal Ottaviani (who controlled the Holy Office)convinced Pope Paul VI that a reversal of Rome's position on birth control would weaken hierarchical authority. Hence 

Editorial Board Operations Board 
-Ihe-O.b.se~~er
---------.L-==-Y~ ---­
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager ............... David Stephenitch 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
r Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan Controller ............................. William J. Highducheck I" News Editor ...................................Keith Harrison Jr Advertising Manager........ . . .......... Jim Hagan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Systems Manager .. ................ Mark B. Johnson
r 
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Production Manager ......... ............. John A. Men nell 
~ administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­
Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb 
~ Sible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy 
r 
taries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is 
Viewpoint Editor .................................... Joe Murphy 
available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches
campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Copy Chief .............................................. Frank Lipo Founded November 3,1966 
Accent 
Tuesday, September 24, 1985 -page 7 
Summer Camp ­
Army style 
Keith Harrison Jr. 
features staff writer 
W 
aking up at 4 a.m. to clean 
barracks may not seem like a 
great way to spend part ofsummer 
vacation, hut that is exactly what 
Notre Dame students Eric Miller 
and Michele Ritchie did this year. 
Miller and Ritchie were two of 22 
Notre Dame Army ROTC cadets 
who participated in Army spedal 
schools during the summer. 
Miller, who was Notre Dame's 
representative at Air Assault School, 
studied what he called "warfare 
'Apm:alypse Now'· style" during his 
I 7 days at Fort Campbell, Ky. 
"Air a.~sault is when you fly in 
with hdicopters, land troops and 
take the enemy by surprise," Miller 
said. "It was kind ofglamorized in 
the final scene of"Apocalypse 
Now," but that's the ba.~ic idea. 
"The training we did was similar 
to the work done by the Army's 
I 0 I st Airborne division, which is 
the only air a.~sault division in the 
world," Miller said. 
"It is also probably the one divi· 
sion the Soviet tlnion fears most." 
Ritchie spent three weeks at Airborne School in Fon Benning, Ga., where she and 19 other Notre Dame Army ROTC cadets learned the proper way to jump from airplanes and use parachutes. 
"We spent a lot of time learning the proper way to land, because if you're not positioned corectly you can ea.~ily break your legs or ankles," Ritchie said. 
Miller, meanwhile, spent his 
weekends at Air Assault School in 
the library. 
"Probably the most difficult part was the studying we had to d(J, since it wa.~ all boring, dry memorization of a lot ofdifferent numbers and procedures," Miller said. 
Aclose second in level of dif· tkulty, however, wa.~ the la.~t day of school, he said. 
"We had to go on a 10-mile march · which ended up being a run," Miller said. "There were two hills we had to go up during the 
march: one named Agony and one named Misery. "They were very, very big. I was amazed," Miller said. 
In between the academics and his assault on Agony and Misery, Miller also karned how to hook up loads to helicopters and how to repel from heights of 90 feet, he said. 
For Ritchie, the first day was the toughest. 
"lbe first day was just a couple hours ofverbal abuse," she said. "You do about a million push-ups, the sergeants are really picky and they're always yelling in your face. 'lbey do that to weed out the people who won't make it." 
After the first day, however, things became more bearable, Ritchie said. She later learned to jump from towers of 34 and 250 feet, a.~ well a.o; the proper way to jump from a plane. 
"You do so much practice that after a while, the proper procedures become second nature," she said. 
She jumped from planes five times, including one night jump. "When the time came for the first jump, we were so well trained that I really wasn't scared," she said.. 
"Airborne School was a very good experience for me," Ritchie said. "'lbere was a lot ofwork in· volved, but that toughens you up as a soldier." 
Miller ageed. 
"It was really tough, but it was valuable training," Miller said. "And some parts of it were fun, also." 
Both Miller and Ritchie agreed, however, that the tryouts for the schools were not fun. Although participation in the schools is voluntary, the number ofspots available was limited. Thus, Miller and Ritchie had to wake up at 4:30 
a.m. three days a week for six weeks last spring to work out with ap· proximately 50 other Notre Dame Army ROTC cadets interested in the schools. 
"We had to do things like run the steps ofNotre Dame Stadium," 
"" 

Ritchie said. "It was tough training, 
they tried to psych you out. 

"They try to get you used to the rigors ofbeing yelled at so you are prepared for the first day ofAir­borne School," she added. 
"We did a lot ofpush-ups," Miller said. "For the most part, the tryouts were more physical than the school itself. 
"But the killer was that we still had academics to worry about," Miller said. "Every day after waking up early and going to that workout we still had tests and classes to think about," he said. 
Why did they do it? 

"It's good training, and it will help my career," Miller said. "Air Assault School is also kind of tough to get into later on in your career," he added. 
"I wanted to push myselfand see if I could do it," Ritchie said. "It also distinguishes me among my peers, and it's an honor." 
Ritchie also had another motiva­tion. 
"My father completed Airborne School 25 years ago," she said. "So I'm kind ofa second-generation trooper." 
Jarvik-7 adds stress to fantilies 
Alllloclatf:d Press 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -Wives ofartifi· cia! heart patients experience more pressure and strain than the recipients themselves, a member of Louisville's Jarvik· 7 team said. 
Dr. Allan M. Lansing, medical director of Humana lleart Institute International at llumana Hospital Audubon, pointed to the illness suffered recently hy Margaret Schroeder, ofjasper, Ind., a.o; an example. 
Mrs. Schroeder, wife of William Schroder, who has lived longer than any other human with a mechanical pump, wa.o; hospitalized last week after fainting spells. Doctors initially said the problem was caused by hiKh hlood pressure, but lansing said he helieves it wa.o; caused by exhaustion. 
Mrs. S<:hroedcr, 5j, has gone home to jasper, and lansing wants her to rest one month before returning to Louisville to bt· with Schroeder. 
Lansing offered his philosophy on the quality oflife for artificial heart patients and their families Saturday at the first Conference on Loss. The meeting wa.~ organized to help counselors, social workers, nurses and other professionals cope with various forms ofpersonal loss. 
It will be awhile hefore artificial heart patients can enjoy the same quaility oflife as heart bypass and transplant patients now experience, he said. 
"We have made progress. There is promise for the future, but it is early," he said. 
Lansing said he is convinced each of the three men who received implants in Louisville -Schroeder, Murray Haydon and Jack C. Bur­cham -lived longer with the treat· ment than they otherwise would have. Burcham died 10 days after his surgery. 
"Do they live better?" Lansing asked. "I'm not sure." 
Quality oflife is almost impos­sible to define and can't be measured because it varies from individual to individual, he said. 
For artificial heart patients, "It depends on one thing: it depends on happiness," lansing said. "Is the individual happy ... compared to what it (his condition) was before, compared to what it would be without this treatment?" 
Jarvik· 7 recipients are under strain every day, including having to worry about whether the com· pressor that powers the pump will 
keep running, lansing said. Loss of 
privacy is another strain, he said. 
"Everything they do or say is followed" by the public. "They are photographed all over the place. They have a lower quality oflife because of this," lansing said. 
Similar pressure is exerted on the patients' families and it is difficult for them to maintain normal lives. 
"Almost every weekend, all the children in the Schroeder family come down to visit Dad .... Ifthey don't come, they're not being faith· ful children,;, he said. 
Lansing said in an interview after his speech that he has "become a little more understanding and tolerant" when family members become "angry, frustrated or bitter. It's perfectly natural ... They become worn out." 
Schroeder, who received his plastic and metal heart Nov. 25, lives in a specially equipped apart· ment with 24-hour nursing care across the street from the hospital. 
Haydon, who spends three of every fours hours on a respirator, remains in Audubon's intensive care unit. He underwent the im· plant Feb. 17. 
• 
j 
J 
I
j j 
l j 
j l I 
1be Obaerver/ AnncM Marie Quinlan 
Michele Ritchie learned to jump ROTC Airborne school. Ritchie com­from planes while attending Army pletedfivejumps, including one night jump. 
Sports Briefs 
The Notre Dame golfteamwas performingwell in the Indiana Collegiate GolfChampionships before rain forced the cancellation of the event yesterday. Only about one quarter of the tournament had been played when it was cancelled for the first time in history. -The Obseroer 
The NVA kayak course still has openings for in-· terested students. The class meets from 4:30p.m. to 7:30p.m. every Thursday until October Break. A fee of $45 is required. More in­fromation is available at the NVA office in the ACC or by calling 239-6100.-The Obseroer 
Mike Haywood, defensive back on the ND football team, will be the guest tonighton "SpeakingofSports" on WVFI-AM 
64. Join hosts Chuck Freeby and Frank Mastro with your questions and comments by calling 239-6400. -The Obseroer 
The ND/SMC Women's Golf Club wm be meeting tomorrow at 6:30p.m. in the lounge of Breen-Phillips Hall. For more information, call jane or Angie.-The Obseroer 
An ultimate frisbee tournament is being sponsored by NVA. The deadline for submitting I 0-player rosters is today in the NVA office. For more information, call 239-6100. -The Obseroer 
The Domer Runs are coming on Satur~y. Oct. S. The deadline for entries for the three-and six-mile events is Friday in the NVA office in the ACC. For more information, call 239­6100.-The Obseroer 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor ofLafortune. Briefs should be submitted on the forms available at the office, and every briefmust include the phone number ofthe person submitting it. -The Obseroer 
-------------------------~.. 
Tuesday, September 24, 1985-page 8 
Pirates Lose, 5-4 
Cards ntaintain three-gante lead 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS -Terry Pendleton tripled home two runs with two outs in the eighth inning, giving the St. Louis Cardinals a S-4 victory over the Pittsburgh Pirates last night. 
The victory maintained the Car­dinals' three-game lead in the Na­tional League East over the New York Mets, who earlier defeated Philadelphia, 4-1. 
Pendleton's hit came off reliever Cecilio Guante, 4-6, the third Pirates' pitcher, giving St. Louis its fourth straight come-from-behind victory and its lith triumph in its last 12 games. 
With St. Louis trailing, 4-3, Willie McGee opened the eighth inning with his second single of the game and stole second. 
Tom Herr and pinch-hitter Brian Harper were retired on flyouts by reliever Pat Clements, but pinch­hitter Cesar Cedeno greeted Guante with an infield hit. After Tom Law-· less ran for Cedeno, Pendleton lined a triple into the gap in right center for his second hit ofthe game. 
Jeff Lahti, S-2, the fourth Car­dinals' pitcher, was the winner. 
Dodgers 5, Astros 3 
HOUSTON -Pinch-hitter Enos Cabell lined a two-run single in the eighth inning and Steve Sax had three hits and two RBis to power the Los Angeles Dodgers to a S-3 victory over the Houston Astros last night. 
The victory moved the National League Western Division-leading Dodgers six games ahead of the idle Cincinnati Reds. The Dodgers' magic number for clinching the NL west was reduced to eight. 
With the score tied, 3-3, Cabell hit 
a pitch by Jeff Calhoun into center 
field to drive in Pedro Guerrero and 
Reggie Williams. Guerrero had led 
off with a single and had taken 
second on Bob Bailor's single. Wil­
liams came in to run for Bailor and 
the runners were sacrificed into 
scoring position for Cabell. 
Carlos Diaz, S-3, was the winner 
with late relief help from Tom 
Niedenfuer, who gained his I 7th 
save. Calhoun, 2-4, took the loss. 
Mets 4, Phillies 1 
PHILADELPHIA -Gary Carter's two-run homer in the third inning triggered the NewYork Mets to a 4-1 victory over the Philadelphia Phillies in the opener of a I 0-game road trip for the National League East-contending Mets. 
The Mets took a 2-0 lead in the third off Toliver when, with two outs, Keith Hernandez tripled and Carter hit his 30th home run of the season. 
New York made it 3-0 in the fourth on a walk to George Foster, a base hit by Howard Johnson and Mookie Wilson's two-out single. 
Right-hander Rick Aguilera, 9-6, pitched five innings and allowed six hits, walked one and struck out five. Roger McDowell relieved for the Mets and pitched four innings of two-hit, scoreless ball to earn his 16th save. 
Rookie Fred Toliver, 0-2, was the loser. 
Expos 10, Cubs 7 
CHICAGO -Andres Galarraga hit a leadoff home run and pinch-hitter Doug Frobel added a two-run homer during a tiebreaking eighth inning yesterday as the Montreal Expos broke a. six-game losing streak by beating the Chicago Cubs, I 0-7. 
Galarraga's second homer of the season snapped a 6-6 tie. Frobel hit his first after a walk to Razor Shines. Both blows came against George Frazier, 7-8. 
Frazier also gave up a two-run homer to Vance Law in the seventh inning. Earlier in the game, Andre Dawson hit his 200th career home run and Tim Wallach hit his 19th of the season, both against starter Steve Trout, giving the Expos five home runs in a game for the first time this year. 
Randy St. Claire, who pitched one inning, raised his record to S-3 and Tim Burke got his eighth save. 
Blue jays 5, Brewers 1 
TORONTO -jesse Barfield hit his 25th home run ofthe season andjim Clancy and Tom Henke combined on a five-hitter last night to spark the Toronto Blue Jays to a S-1 victory over the Milwaukee Brewers. 
The victory gave the American League East-leading Blue Jays a six­game lead over idle New York. Tpronto's magic number for clinch­ing its first-ever division title was reduced to eight. 
Clancy, 8-S, gave up a double to Cecil Cooper in the second inning and a single to Paul Molitor in the sixth. Clancy left after Earnest Riles and Cooper started the seventh with singles. 
Henke took over and got Ted Sim­mons. to ground into a double play as Riles scored. Henke finished up for his 13th save. 
The Ohsen•er Notre Damt· olfke. locatnl on th<. thtn.l floor of l.al·onune Student <.t·nter. accepts classified adn·nising from') a.m until ·I p.m...\londa\ through hidav The Ohserr·er Saint \larv·, otfitc. i<>c·ated on the thiru tloor of Haggar Collq~c· Ct.·nter. atTepts da"itinh from 12 ..~0 p m. until .~p.m .. ~lon· day though hidav lkadlim· for n<.·xt·Ua\ da"itinls is .~ p m. All c·la"itinls must he prepaid. either in pnson or h\· mail.< :harge is I 0 cent' Jll'r five c·harac·
Classifieds 
ters t:r day. 
LOST  THUAS  GOLD  HEINEKIN  student efficiency $125.and utilities near  Need five (5) GAs for Army game. CaN  NEED TWO USC GA'S. WILL PAY TOP  Jamie, I love you! J  
NOTICES  WATCH.SENTIMENTAL WEAR IT TO ALL  VALUE-I OF THE  N.D. 2558505; 2594943  Rod at 1768.  DOLLAR OR TRADE YOU LSU GA'S FOR THEM. CALL JODix3693.  Riders  needed  to  Cleveland-leaving  
PAATIES.PLEASE  CALL  CHRIS  AT  NEED 2 OR 3 PURDUE GA'S CALL  around 12:00 Fridey Oct. 4 and returning  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082  3810 FOR REWARD. LOST: BLUE BACK PACK (JANSPORT) IN SOUTH DINING HALL DURING  WANTED  GLORIA 284-4306. I DESPERATELY NEED 2 ARMY G.A. TIX. WILLING TO PAY GOOD MONEYII  WElT COASTERI-DON'T FORGET WElT COAST PICNIC..OCT. 4 $2 Collection Tues. Wed, & Thurs at din­ner in the dining halls  Sunday Oct. 6 around 5:00-Call Lisa at 2955 "I don't even like Jello . I mean for  
LUNCH ON 9/19.1F FOUND OR PICKED  Need ride to Dayton any weekend. Call  IF YOU CAN HELP, CALL TIM AT 4246  eating."  
TYPING CALL CHRII234411117  UP BY MISTAKE, PLEASE CALL TERESA AT 3491 OR TAKE IT TO THE  Maria4174.  OAJOHNAT1628  THAT'S ENTERTAINMENT FEATUR­ING: JOHN KENNEDY IRISH SINGER  I'm starting to wonder, Sis ..  
Wordprocesaing Call Dolores 277-6045  LOST AND FOUND OFFICE (LAFORTUNE). I NEED THE BOOKS AND NOTES FOR TESTS.  NEED AIDE TO ST. LOUIS ON 9/27 -9/29. CALL MONICA 284-5171.  PRODIGAL IONS NEED TWO ARMY G.A.'S TO GET BACK IN THE HOUSE. MONEY IS NO CONCERN TO US II  AND DANCER WED. SEPT. 25 8-12PM HCC CHAMELEON ROOM COME AND RELAX AND JOIN US FOR FREE POP­ GOD QUAD: I'VE NEVER HAD 10 MUCH FUN WITH JELLO! -YOUR HONEY. P.l. WE'RE NOT SNOBS,  
FEMALE ROOMMATE WANTED FOR  PLEASE CALL TIM 4246 OR JOHN  CORN AND A GREAT ATMOSPHERE.  WE'RE FROM NEW YORK!  
TYPING-term papers, resumes, letters, applications. Reasonable rates; pickup and delive<y on campuses available. Call Cathy Schultz between 5-10pm 277-5134 $1Q-$360 Weekly/Up Mailing Circulars! No quotas! Sincerely interested rush self­addressed envelope: Success, POBox 470CEG. Woodstock, IL 60098.  LOST: ONE DOZEN DUREX, SUGHTLY USED. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL CHRIS LUll AT 288-5484 ..................... I HAD MY STUDENT TIX BEFORE THE MSU GAME, NOW I DON'T. I WOULD LOVE TO HAVE THEM.$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I THINK I LOST THEM AT SENIOR BAA. PLEASE CALL LARRY AT 1177.1 WILL IDENTIFY THE SECTION AND SEAT NUMBER. THANK'S.  BEG. OF OCT. NOTRE DAME APTS. 112/month. CONTACT ALICE 232-6069. STUDENTS TO PASS OUT SAMPLES IN AREA GAO. STORES. CALL 815-485­8134 (10-2PM OR CONTACT FIN. AID ATNDOASMC. Aide needed to Purdue Sat. Morn. Returning Sat. night or Sun. morn. Sarah, SMC4443.  1628. BOSTON DOMEAS LOOKING FOR USC TICKETS. WILLING TO PAY $$$. CALL HELEN 277-4324 EVENINGS 6:D0-11:00 Help I need 2 Army GA'a. Have 1 USC Stud and/or cash to trade; call Ned 1043 I NEED 1 STUDENT TICKET TO THE ARMY GAME. CALL GREG 3047  IT'S THE BEST ENTERTAINMENT ON CAMPUS!!! Is your name MIKE FOY, and is TODAY your 22ND BIRTHDAY ??? If so, read on ... HAPPY BIRTHDAY HON !!! I still love you even though you're an old man. Annie Mr. Myers: When you read thiS, BLACK TUESDAY will be han over .. .BE HAPPY!!  Danny "HOT STUFF" Baldino­where were you? I waited all dey at the HOT CHOCOLATE DISPENSER! Thanx to Ali sa, Ann. Molly and St. Antony I have my heart charm I lost at Campus View Sat. nite. Luv ya, Moira. Michele Jablonski is 19 today. Call her and wish her a Happy Birthday. 284-5415.  
LOST/FOUND LOST: Man's brown rosary, posaibly in or near CCE on Friday Sapt 13. Pleue call Bob at 233-2784. LOST DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT RING. PLEASE CONTACT ALICE IF YOU KNOW OF ITS WHEREABOUTS. VERY IMPORTANT. 232-6069. ·············•·· .................... LOST: White Catalina coat in or around Senior Bar Thursday the 12th Steve-1650  LOST: AT THE COMMONS SAT NIGHT. I LOST MY NO RUGBY JACKET. PLEASE RETURN IT AND THE KEYS INSIDE. REWARD GIVEN. CALL JIM AT 287-5425 LOST ONE KEY ON WHITE PLASTIC KEYRING! MISSING ON 9/18 IF FOUND, CALL 2918 FOUND: Peart bracelet-Friday, between Farley and C2 parking Jot Call Julie X4071 to claim LOST:MY J.D. AT THE FOOTBALL GAME lAT. IT INCLUDED MY  NEED AIDE TO CHICAGO LEAVING 9/27 RETURNING 9/29.CALL CHRIS OALISAAT4401. FOR SALE I For Sale 1975 Honde, 2-door;·s:_~p;;;;d·. Call256-5175. 1978 Chevelte -low mileag~ood condi­tion. 272-4884 CORDLESS PHONE, like new, new batt.  HAVE 2 ARMY GAl NEED 2 USC GAll PREFER TRADE 4035 I PERSONALS1-.-----------1 ·········································· Tthe best way to avoidresponsibility is to say, "I've got responsibi/Wes. " -Richard Bach, llluaiCKIII.  M.J.-Cavanaugh is a nice place to visit but I wouldn't want to live there!!!-B.C. SCOTT COHAN VS. THE IIIIHOP GO SCOTT-BEAT THE BISHOP ANY DEMONS OUT THERE? CALL 1165 AND WISH GREG AEES A HAPPY HAPPY 20TH! LOVE, SMELL FOR SALE: ONE LARGE FAMILY HEIR­LOOM ENGAGEMENT RING Priceless Call Pani and uk about the JUUEN JEWELS (Mark-Guess What?? THE ENGAGEMENT'S OFFill)  Happy Birthday Mic-kay. Love, Deb-bay and Hoi-lay. To: MR. EUROPEAN Greg, HAPPY B DAY! Too bad there's not a K-martaround here. You could have ridden the horae. Oh well, happy 20th just the same' P.S. Never 'J' walk again. Love, Janet. HAPPY B DAY TO YOU HAPPY B DAY TO YOU HAPPY B DAY PATTY SUE  
LOST!!! ONE PAIR OF GROOVY, BLACK-FRAMED, MIRRORED FAKE -VUARNETS. THEY HAVE ALL KINDS OF SENTIMENTAL VALUE. I EITHER LEFT THEM ON A TABLE IN LA FORTUNE OR ON THE FLOOR IN NIEUWL.AND. MAAY'BETH 288-5577 LOST BLACK CASIO 100 METER THERMOMETER SPORT WATCH. ALARM IS SET FOR 5:40 PM. LOST 9­17-85 SOMEWHERE BETWEEN CAVANAUGH AND CUSHING. CALL SAM SIEWERT AT 1431 (228 CAVANAUGH). Lost: Purple book bag on 9/18 at the lOUth dining hall, please return by calling me at 277-8336 Of droping it off at the lost & found office Really need my notes and  DETEX(IT'I A $30 REPLACEMENT pac. $40 neg. call Joel 1697 FEE) lOME MONEY, AND MY PRAYER CAROl TO ST. JUDEI PLEASE 74 PONTIAC LEMANS, VB, POWER, RETURN TO KATHLEEN, 21111.P. OR AIR, GOOD CONDITION, 283-2850 CALL 1275. 1976 CHEVETTE NO RUST, VERY LOST: MAAKINON 35MM GREEN SHARP. 56,000 MILES. 4 SPEED $1800 CAMERA IN GREEN CASE-PICTURES CAN BE SEEN MONDAY SEPT.23 OF GREAT VALUE-IF FOUND CALL PLEASE CALL 233-2090. TAISHA 284-4444 REWARD!! MACINTOSH! MUST SELL! MAKE OF­52 FOR RENT I ~.~~:.~~:~~. ,___.......­........­........­........­........­.......__.......... I TICKETS Student -two rooms, anower, private I NEED USC GA's Have cash & home entrance all utilities paid 288-0955/277­GA'sfortrade: Call DAVE 1712 3604 I WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR 3 ARMY  OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N., 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. SMC Founders Day Writing Contest Eaaay of IOOQ-1200 words on: 1. Influence of St. Mary's put on present 2. Changes in St. Mary's College 3. Some aspects of SMC have changed: however many things otill remain the same Papers must ba typed and turned, into 303 Madeleva by October 9. For more info: call Susan at 5258 ...... $50 PRIZE ..... A YOUNG MAN IN A CORRECTIONAL INSITUTE WISHES TO CORRESPOND WITH A COLLEGE STUDENT. PLEASE WAITE: MICHAEL LLOYD, 51Q-85-87 10LB6, 275 ATLANTIC AVE. BROOK­LYN, NY. 11201 THANK YOU.  HEY PART1EIISI THE PICTURE MAN is hiring PHOTOGRAPHERS. No Ex­perience Necesaary. $4-$10 per hour. Call 232-1622 Tues & Wed. Noon-4pm. Leave a message if no answer. To the inhabitants of the brothel at Campus View (and you know who you are): You guys run a real clean place, but you can't possibly be turning a profit... From dumb, smelly chicks and broads. THEY GAVE HIM A MISSION HE COULD NEVER WIN-TO KEEP ROW FOUR SAFE FOR DEMOCRACY AND GRAD STUDENTS. . THEY DIDN'T KNOW THEY WERE DEALING WITH TOMBO!!! Katie T, Thanks for making the game so  YOU'RE LEGAL NOW YAHOO! HAPPY 21ST ROOMMATE! LOVE, JANET THE LEGEND OF BROOKS PARK, Thanks for inviting me. I had a great lime (as always)! Red is a lucky man. Good luck this week! I love you, Your Bigg11111 Fan Scound Oueen,Do you give lessons?! To Kroo & friends. I am glad I found everything that I lost this weekend, my keys, your jacket, and my sanity. Looking forward to next weekend. Look for me again next Tuesday, same lime, same place.-The girl on Thor.  
books. Thanks whoever you are? Ike  2 lg. bdrma, $270 incl. heat. Grads. near  GA'S OR 4 LSU GA'S CALL STEVE AT  much fun. "Don't go backwards, dude!"  
w/side, 15 mins. from campus. Call 234­ 17330R 1757  Take me home to Chicago and 1'1 be your  Too funny and too cool. Will you teach me  ALL KIDDING ASIDE PAGNBORN IS  
HEY DOMERS!!! My blue NO bookbag  5570 after 4:30.  friend forever. I need a ride the weekend  the fight song? Tom  NOT A DULL DORM WE LOVE YOU  
was taken from the South Dtning Hall after  f naad 4 tlckata lor ND-UIC. Cell 11erk  of Sapt. 27. Call Fran at 2687.  MOST OF THE TIME. GUESS WHO?  
dinner Thurllday the 19th. Contents: 2  Private rm in quite home for Christian  at25WBIO.  Appleman are red Beach party pinchers  
watches,  room  keys,  ve<y  important  lady.  Non-smoker.  $150/mo.  Coin  Help us avoid the Beantown blues. Give  are blue Happy Eighteenth, dear Chucko  PATTYSUE  STAGER  HAPPY  21  
psych. book and notes. PLEASE call me at 4051. Thanks.  laundry, kitchen privileges option. 233­1159, Karen Loebrich.  I badly need G.A.'s for all home games. CaH Marty at 1050.  us a ride to Boston or vicinity for October break. Call Maria 4174.  (Charlene) You're special to all who know you! QUAD 218  BIRTHDAY. BEWARE OF GEEKS BAAING GIFTS. LOVE,PEGGY  

The Observer 
Sailing club grabs third place 
o SAILING CLUB: With the weather cold and rainy in Iowa, the Notre Dame Sailing Club traveled to Iowa City to compete In an l I-team regatta In which Dan Dressel and Tony Finch finished third behind Wisconsin and Iowa. 
Since the team has I 0 or l 1 more regattas left, the 
team should do well in achieving its goal of qualify­
Ing for the Tulane Tournament. 
"For a team to qualify for the tournament, a team 
must do well in three designated regattas," accord­
ing to club president Dressel: "Notre Dame's, which 
was held last week and In which the Irish finished 
second; the Iowa regatta; and the Michigan regatta 
on Oct. 5-6. Since we did well in ours and Iowa's, if 
we stay consistent, we probably will qualify for the 
Tulane Tournament. 
"This year should be very prosperous because we have four returning skippers," Dressel said, "whereas the other top schools have lost most of theirs to graduation. With our experience, our team has a real good shot at going to Tulane. If we go, it will be the first time that Notre Dame has qualified for the tournament, and it will be a major ac­complishment for our club." 
Next weekend, the sailing club will travel to Con­necticut and Detroit. The team of Dressel and Finch will compete at the Coast Guard Academy where the Irish will be the only Midwest team among the Eas­tern schools. The Detroit regatta is called the Sloop Championship in which a team of three men will compete in a larger boat than usual. So far, only Ted Ganley and Mark Ryan have been named to the team. 

Tom Voon 
Club Corner 
"We are one of the larger clubs on campus and becuase of this, we have an abundant amount of talent," Dressel said. "But we get a lot of new mem­bers, and many of these people have not sailed before, and they joined so they could learn. Our vice-commodore, Tim Westhoven, gives the lessons throughout the semester and we are always taking new members." 
o WATER POLO: Next weekend the Notre Dame Water Polo Club will travel to Chicago and compete in Loyola's annual tournament against Loyola, Iowa State, Michigan, Purdue, Illinois, Northwestern and Northern Illinois. The team must do well because from this tournament the teams going to regional competition will be chosen. 
"We should do real well, and with a victory over Michigan we feel ready," said Steve Gunther. 
o SCORES AND NEWS: The women's track club will be competing at Notre Dame on Friday. In its first meet, Notre Dame placed seventh out of I 0 teams. Three of the best times were turned in by Patty Milesky, 18:10; Mary Ellen Mllesky, 18:44; and Julia Merkel, I8:49. 
The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Gymnastics Club will begin practicing next week as soon as the in­surance forms for the members are signed. 


By LISAJOHNSTON and KELLY PORTOLESE 
Sports Writers 
Over the weekend, the Saint Mary's volleyball team traveled to Il­linois Benedictine College for a I6­team tournament. 
The Belles' first opponent was Lake Forest College, which beat the Belles, 15-I I , 15-I1. In the second match, Saint Mary's faced St. Ambrose and again lost, this time I 5­6, I5-II. In the third match, against the College of Saint Francis, the Belles were defeated, I 5-1 I, I 5-7. 
In the consolation round the Belles defeated Eureka College, I 5­6, I6-14, and then lost in the semi­finals to Wheaton, 15-8, I 5-6. 
Junior Mary Reidy and freshmen standouts Margaret Feldman and Tami Suth turned in noteworthy performances up at the net for the Belles. 
This was the second weekend tournament in a row for the Belles, 
who have faced all NCAA Division III competition thus far. 
After the I-4 showing over the weekend, Reidy, the team's only up­perclassman, said she doesn't feel the team has played up to its fullest potential yet. 
"We are a real young team and we've been improving with every game," said the outside hitter. "We · have a lot of potential, and by the end of the season we should have a great team." 
At Benedictine the Belles were without the services of sophomore setter Colleen Mergens, who was sidelined with an injured ankle. 
Mergens is expected to return to her setting duties tonight when the Belles begin NAIA conference ac­tion against Grace College and Tri­State University in their home opener. 
The matches are scheduled for a 6 
p.m. start in the Angela Athletic Facility. 
Would you like to see your Artwork 
in prominent places all over campus? 
~--­
Be an artist with the 
Student Activities Board 
HAT IF..:' you joined Northrop DSD! You'd find the freedom Schedule an interview appointment through your to interact with the industry's brightest minds. College Placement Office, or send your resume You'd meet the industry's toughest challenges. to: College Relations Organization, Northrop And you'd have an opportunity to explore your Corporation, Defense Systems Division, 600 own limits. As a professional. As a person. Hicks Road, Rolling Meadows, IL 60008. We are an equal opportllnity employer M/FN/H. U.S.We have career opportunities available for Citizenship Required.MBA's, Bachelor's and Master's graduates in: ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING, MECHANICAL ENGINEERING, COMPUTER ENGINEERING, NORTHROPCOMPUTER SCIENCE, PHYSICS, MATHEMATICS. Defense Systems Division Our representatives will be on campus on Electronics Systems Group October 4, 1985. Northrop DSD: Where the individual thrives ... on opportunity.  Calendar Commission For more info call Vera at 239-7605 Wbt Jlntg!Jts nftltt<ttastlt Men's Hair Styling at Its finest ti-.... \--minutes from campus ~-~ ~ Welcome Back Students! ....c ~ · STUDENT SPECIAL $5 Haircut only 277-1691 Haircut, Shampoo272-0312 Blowdrv offer only applies to male patrons Hrt: Tuee, Wed: 1:»6:30 6e533 Terrace lane Thur, Frl: 1:30-1:30 AerO.. from Martln'l Sat: 1:00-2:30 St. Rd.23 CIOMdMon.  

The Observer 
Dickerson returns; Rams beat Seahawks 
Associated Press 
SEATILE Eric Dickerson returned to National Football League play with a splash last night, rushing for three touchdowns as the Los Angeles Rams stopped the Seattle Seahawks, 35-24. 
Dickerson, the two-time NFL rus­hing champion back for his third pro season after a 47-day contract hol­dout, scored on runs ofone, two and I 5 yards while gaining I 50 yards on 31 carries to help the Rams improve their record to 3-0. The Seahawks dropped to 2-1. 
The Rams exploded for two touchdowns-on a I9-yard pass from quarterback Dieter Brock to Bobby Duckworth and Dickerson's two­yard run -in the first 2:03 of the second half after a 7-7 halftime dead­lock. 
The Rams took the second-half kickoff and moved 80 yards in five plays, with Brock finding Duck­worth in the left corner of the end zone with just I :46 gone in the second half. 

Seattle's Randall Morris fumbled the kickoff and Mark jerue recovered the ball on the Seattle 2­yard line. Dickerson scored on the next play for a 21-7 Los Angeles lead. 
The Seahawks came back within 21-17 on a 26-yard field goal by Norm johnson and a 3-yard scoring pass from Dave Krieg to rookie Danny Greene. But the Rams then went 80 yards in six plays to put the game out of reach. Dickerson opened the drive with a 43-yard run and finished it with a 15-yard run with 3:33 left. 
The Rams' final touchdown came on the fifth Seattle turnover of the game on johnnie johnson's 27-yard return of an intercepted Krieg pass with 1:45 to go. The Rams pressured Krieg throughout and sacked him seven times, including three by defensive end Doug Reed, for 61 yards. 
Reserve quarterback Gale Gilbert threw 3 7 yards to Daryl Turner for the final Seattle touchdown with 28 seconds to play. 

Miltjackson (6), who was expected to play split bas left the University after spending several weeks end for the Notre Dame football team this season, in the hospital. Details appear on page 12. 
Saint Mary's tennis team wins two, loses one during busy· weekend 
By PAM CUSICK 

Sports Writer 
Head Coach Debbie Laverie saw her Saint Mary's tennis team record two wins and one loss in three matches this weekend. The Belles defeated Anderson College and Illinois-Chicago, but lost to Wisconsin-Milwaukee. Saint Mary's is now 3-5 on the season. 
In Saturday's match against Ander­son, No. 2 singles player Shaun Boyd led the way with a 6-3, 6-2 win, while Kim Drahota scored a 6-2,6-2 victory from the No. 3 singles slot. Bridget Heraty followed with a 6-2, 6-3 victory in"the No.4 spot. After a 6-3, 6-2 Sheila Campbell win, Char­lene Szajko completed-Saint Mary's impressive singles play with a 6-1, 6­2 victory. 
"I feel we are improving," said Laverie. "The team is playing much better than they did in the two 
Tennis 

continuedfrom page 12 
enough, as the Irish were defeated for the first time. 
Notre Dame came back strong the next day, however, as the Irish met Iowa in the final match ofthe tourna­ment. In another day that was filled with tight matches, the Irish won, 5­3. 
Panther, Colligan and Schmidt were winners in singles play and the pairs of Colligan and O'Brien and Biafore and Illig were victorious to finish the challenging. 
Yesterday, the Irish got an unex­
pected day off because their match 
against Butler was cancelled be­
cause of the rain. Despite the un­
cooperative weather, Head Coach 
Michelle Gelfman's spirits were not 
dampened. Overall, she was pleased 
with the weekend performance and 
was glad the Irish got the valuable 
experience in tough matches that 
they need. 
"There were a lot of strong 
matches," seh said. "The loss to Il­
linois was disappointing because it 
was so close, just a matter of a few 
games. We played well, though, all 
weekend and really dug in when we 
needed to." 
Support the 
March of Dimes 
-8111TH DEFECTS FOUNDATION-

matches they just lost 5-4. Up until now we had only been playing singles well." 
But the Belles responded well in doubles competition against Ander­son, as the No. 3 team ofDrahota and Campbell beat their opponents 6-2, 6-2, to forge the final match score of 6-3. 
"We are becoming much more ag­gressive in doubles," said Laverie. "And as a team we are getting bet­ter." 
On Sunday, the Belles could not stage a repeat performance and lost to Wisconsin-Milwaukee, 7-2. 
The only Saint Mary's victories came at the No. 6 singles spot, where Szajko registered a convincing 6-0, 6-1 win, and at No. 3 doubles, where Katie O'Brien and Anne Piacentine rallied for a 5-7, 6-2, 6-4 victory. 
"Our singles players weren't playing well against Wisconsin," said Laverie. "But we were proud even after our third doubles team lost the first set 5-7, because they never gave up and came back to win the match." 
Against Illinois-Chicago on Sun­day, the Belles scored a narrow 5-4 win, as Drahota, Heraty, and Campbell took their singles matches in straight sets and Szajko won by default. 
In doubles play, the No. 3 team of Drahota and Campell came out on top ina three-set battle, 2-6,6-3,6-2. 
"Our singles players were strong and we played well," said Laverie of the Illinois-Chicago match. "We are looking to our next invitational this coming weekend." 
On September 28 and 29, the Belles will host the annual Saint Mary's College Invitational at Leeper Park in South Bend. Schools par­ticipating in the Invitational include Ball State, Bowling Green, Cincin­nati, DePauw, Marquette, Toledo and Xavier. 
Hey Mate! 
JDbe-~~ needsyou.The news department Is accepting applications for 
Copy Editor 

For more information contact Frank Lipo at 239-5313 or stop in at The Observer office. Deadline for applications Is 5 p.m. Wednesday. 

The Observer is now accepting applications for 
Assistant Systems Manager 
This is a salaried position and responsibilities include: 
• 
Supervise operation of16-user Alpha Micro computer system. 

• 
Routine software and hardware maintenance. 


• 
Oversee operation ofLinotron 101 phototypesetter. 

• 
Monitor and coordinate typesetting staffand schedule. 


w For more information or an application, contact Mark Johnson at The Observer, 239-5303. 
• • • Applications due by Friday, October 4. • • • 
The Observer is now accepting applications for 
Assistant Production Manager 
This is a salaried position and duties include: 
Supervising the Accent and Viewpoint layout staffs Coordinating layout of the Irish Extra Assisting in special design projects 
For more information contact John Mennell at The Obser­ver, 239-5303, by midnight Wednesday September 25. 
SObering ~v-'
cansavea~~-~;(..~, ) 
Think Before YOU Drink ~~ Before You Drive .. · 

Put your degree to work where it can do a world of good 
Your first job after graduation should offer more than just a paycheck. 
If you're graduating this year, look into a unique opportunity to put your degree to work where it can do a world of good. Look into the Peace Corps. 
See our Film September 25 at 7:30p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns Interviews Oct. 1st & 2nd in the Career & Placement Services, Memorial Library 
'JI['~.cllC3L~-----------------------------------------T--u.es.d•a•y-,S·e•p•t•e•m•b•e•r•2•4•'•1•9•8•5···p·a-ge
__l_l Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
CON5PII?tmJKS /AU ~ 'lOll/ II /Jfl?/? 15 S'!a./€ 11Nil 
~ 1985 Umversal Press Synchcate 
/AKIN6 1/PVI/IffM CT II 
A£1?0/?YNI/MIC •. I 111'11 N01 / 
H!MIIK£S WHO 1/M ICONfVSW IIMNeStll VICTIM / 
II 81/f/l CliN R.Y... I CIW 
A STf{()NG !fef//..f..Y?
SO rtttll BIRP, elf r 
NIJT/ II IJII?P CIIN 51N6.., 
C/15£. "M/.1../1/INKt.~
t.I~N 70 THIS:

HI// I Jf/51 PON'r 
1lli MOOSe'.?
!R/Y 11.1' 
\
\ 

Zeto 

HAVEN 'r You HEARD? THE" NEW ''AU.-RJR'Ft>S€' 
NOTRE tAME' ATHI.£T/C SHOE " IS OUT F'OR A l1MITFDT/t'1E'r TH£'r' 
MADE JUST ~,000 PAl 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 
1 Vagrant  
5 Of a community  
10 Road charge  
14 Latin abbr.  
15-acid  
16 Celebes ox  
11 Pilaf base  
16 Scenery at  
the rear  
20 Invite  
21 Boy servant  
22 Talked  
publicly  
23 Fair weather  
25 Fireplace  
projections  
26 Jal alai  
28 Bring to mind  
32 Goodwill  
33 Not up  
34 Sharp  
Implement  
35 Travel on  
36 Specified  
38 Radar display  
39 -·de·France  
40 Ice sheet  
41 Ajolnt  
42 Meetings  
44 Poles for  8 Printing need  
walking tall  9 Nickname  
45 Sky bear  10 Eastern  
46 -lunch  religion  
47 Middlemen  11 Burden  
50 Follow orders  12 Solitary  
51 Anesthetic  13 Cheryl the  
54 Devious  actress  
56 Chills and  19 Dressed  
fever  21 Something  
57 Diminutive  regrettable  
suffix  24 Tabled'­ 
58 Singer Della  25 Goddess of  
59 Roll call call  youth  
60 Ponce de­ 26 Eur. capital  
61 Certain votes  27 Zola  
62-Bede  28 Speaks  
extravagantly  
DOWN  29 Piled up  9/24/85  
1 Olympian queen  30 Glorify  41 A.B.A. member  50 Poems  
2 Comella­ 31 Lallque and  43 Beneath the  52 Unseen  
Skinner  others  sea  emanation  
3 Retrogresses  36 Word list  44 Leathers  53 Appear  
4 Sp.cheer  37 NYcollege  46 Much too heavy  55 Wedding  
5 Beach shelter  38 Irritated  47 Genesis name  announcement  
6 Picture  state  48 Wicket  word  
7 Moral falling  40 Estuary  49 Outside: pref.  56 Gotchal  

Feb. 27, 1907: The duck-billed platypus is Invented. 
-

Campus  
•12:00 P.M.-Seminar, Private Banks and Ex­ •6:00  P.M.  -Presentation/ Reception,  
ternal Debt in Latin America, Robert Devlin,  Morgan Guaranty Trust of New York, Alumni  
Faculty Fellow, University ofNotre Dame, 131  Room, Morris Inn, Sponsored by Career and  
Decio, Sponsored by The Helen Kellogg In­ Placement Services, Open  to  any, Business  
stitute for International Studies  Majors with six credits in accountancy  
•3:30 P.M.  -Graduate Seminar, Gradient­ •7:00 P.M.· Mandatory Hall Representatives  
Driven Interfacial Instabilities: Application to  Meeting, New Orleans Room, Wortune Stu­ 
Asymmetric  Membrane  Morphology,  W.B.  dent Center, Sponsored by Notre Dame Col­ 
Krant,  Visiting  Professor,  Department  of  lege Republicans  
Chemical  Engineering, University of Notre  •7:00  P.M.  -Meet  the  Firms  Night,  
Dame, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall, Refreshments at  Representatives from the Big Eight and In­ 
3:00, Room 181  dustry, Monogram Room, ACC, Sponsored by  
•4:30 P.M. -Biological Sciences Seminar,  NOAA and Beta Alpha Psi  
"The  metabolism  of  fish  under  stress.",  •7:30 P.M. ·Meeting, Center for Social Con­ 
Wolfgang Wieser, University of Innsbruck,  cerns, Sponsored by Environmental Concerns  
Austria,  Room  283 Galvin  life  Sciences  Organization  
Center, Sponsored by Department of Biologi­ •7:30 P.M.-Tuesday Night FUm Series, "My  
cal Sciences, Coffee at 4: l 5 p.m.  Night at Maud's", Annenberg Auditorium  

Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Hunters Style Chicken Sweet and Sour Pork Cheese and Vegetable Pot Pie BBQ BeefSandwich 
TV Tonight 
6:00P.M.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
6:30P.M.  16  MASH  
22  Three's Company  
7:00P.M.  16  TheA-Team  
22  Hometown  
28  Who's !he Boss?  
7:30P.M.  28  Growing Palns  
8:00P.M.  22  CBS Tuesday Night Movie: "The  
Olher Lover"  
28  Moonlighting  
~  NOVA: "AIDS Chapter One"  
8:30P.M.  46  Blackwood Brothers  
9:00P.M.  16  Remington Steele  
28  Our Family Honor  
~  UFEUNE "Dr. Daniel Smith"  
46  LeseaAlive  

10:00 P.M. 
10:30P.M, 
11:00 P.M. 
11:30P.M. 
12:30A.M. 1:00A.M. 2:00A.M. 
Saint Mary's Baked Meatloaf Turkey Divan Bean Tostada CornSouffie 
16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 
~ Lost In Time 
46 Dwight Thompson 
16 Tonight Show 
22 Magnum/McCloud 
28 ABC News Nightline 
28 Eye on Hollywood 
~ Film Du jour: "Of Human Bomtlge" 46 Praise the Lord 16 Late Night wilh David Lener­man 
16 All in the Family 
22 Nightwatch 
46 lnde~ndent Network News 

Tuesday, September 24, 1985 -page 12
S~orts 

Notre Dame strong safety Brandy Wells maysoon bepart ofone ofthe fastest track relay teams in the nation. joe Murphy takes a look at Wells' ambitions in the story at the bottom ofthis page. 
Notre Datne field hockey teatn posts victory over Lake Forest 
By RICK RIETBROCK 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame field hockey team dominated an overmatched Lake Forest squad yesterday to post a 4-I victory on Cartier Field. Irish Head Coach Jill Lindenfeld said she was pleased with the overall effort of her team. 
"We played a very controlled game today with some good pas­sing," she said. "I'm glad we didn't resort to simply trying to power the ball. 
"We knew we were the better-skilled team going into the game and we also had the advantage ofplaying on the astroturf. We got some nice fan support as well." 
The difference in quality was clear throughout the game. Notre Dame spent most of the afternoon on the Lake Forest half ofthe field. The Irish attempted a whopping 32 more shots on goal than Lake Forest. 
Molly McCabe set up a goal by senior Christina Weinmann that broke a scoreless tie after 20 minutes of play. Melissa Sommer followed with another goal two minutes later and Regina Degnan also scored to give the Irish a 3-0 halftime lead. 
Corinne DiGiacomo scored on an assist from Beth Bisignano to close out the Notre Dame scoring. Lake Forest got its only goal when a Lucy Po lese shot caromed off several Irish sticks and rolled into the goal late in the game. 
Despite the scoring advantage the Irish had, Lindenfeld said she still was somewhat disappointed. 
"We missedalotofscoringoppor­tunities," she pointed out. "That can hurt us in the future against tougher opponents." 
The Irish now are 3-2 on the season. They will play host to Hope College Thursday at 3 p.m. on Car­tier Field before facing Ohio State and Purdue in West Lafayette this weekend. 
Women's tennis team splits matches; Illinois hands Irish their first loss 
ByJOHN COYLE 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame women's tennis team, which had been rolling along ever so smoothy so far in this young season, finally came upon some rough terrain over the weekend. 
The Irish, who had not lost a set in 36 individual matches before Friday, suffered their first loss on Saturday against Illinois after defeating W es­tern Illinois in a morning match. 
The team's unblemished record was somewhat deceptive because the Irish had been playing some of the weaker teams on their schedule. The Irish team is quite good but cer­tainly a perfect record for the entire season is not expected. 
The untested group at last received the challenge it needed in the form of Western Illinois, Illinois and the University of Iowa. It's safe to say that the Irish benefited more from these three difficult matches than from the previous four easy wins. 
"Not losing a set in four team matches looks great on paper, but it's not good for the team in the long run if we aren't challenged," said captain Susie Panther. "Western Il­linois shocked us because they came out really strong, but it's helpful be­cause it prepares us for the more dif­ficult tournaments." 
Panther suffered the first loss of a set in the season in the opening match against Western !Illinois on Saturday but came back strong to win, 7-5, 5-7, 6-3. Mary Colligan topped Mary Pat Donovan, 6-4, 6-3 in the following match. It took three sets each, but Michelle Dasso and Izzy O'Brien were victorious in the third and fourth matches respectively. After Jo-anne Biafore won the fifth match, Tammy Schmidt defeated Kim Weber to close out the singles play. 
The first loss of a match this season came in the opening doubles match, where Kelly Gates and Donovan defeated Panther and Dasso in straight sets, 3-6, 3-6. The duos of Colligan and O'Brien and Biafore and Natalie Illig completed the 8-1 Irish victory by winning their last two matches. 
It was Illinois that was to end Notre Dame's perfect record. In a competition that was marked by several extremely close matches, the Irish contingent lost by a score of 4-5. Colligan and Biafore defeated their opponents in two well-played matches and the tandems of Panther and Dasso and Colligan and O'Brien won in doubles, but it wasn't 
see TENNIS, page 10 
SMC soccer teatn drops to 0-5 
ByANDREA LaFRENIERE 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's soccer team dropped its season record to 0-5 last weekend, losing to both the Mic­higan State Women's Soccer Club and the Quincy College women's varsity soccer team. 
The Belles were defeated, 3-1, by Michigan State Friday at Angela Field. 
Sophomore Beth Hallinan scored the only goal for .Saint Mary's on a penalty kick, following a play which teammate Mary Anne Perri had set up. 

Quincy College beat the Belles, 2­I, in the team's second game of the weekend Sunday at Angela Field. 
Senior Sue Schier! scored for the Belles and was assisted by game cap­tain Maureen Murphy 011 the play. 
Saint Mary's Head Coach John Akers said he was satisfied with the Belles' weekend performances despite the losses. 
"Both in the Michigan State and Quincy games I felt we played better as a team than we've been playing," Akers said. "I really respect the players for that, having now had five losses. The attitude of the team is great." 
Akers is encouraged by the im­provement the players demonstrated at the Quincy game. 
"Katy Boldt did very well in goal against Quincy, when she had to replace Patty Hatfield, who is suffer­ing an injury," he said. " Both Beth Hallinan and Sarah Creech have taken on midfield responsibilities. That's going to make us a better team in the midfield area. 
"Gloria Eleuteri also had a good game against Quincy at the sweeper position," he said. 
The team travels to West Lafayette, Saturday to compete against Purdue in a game scheduled for IO a.m. 
Milt Jackson leaves school 
Special to The Observer 
Milt Jackson, earlier expected to start at split end for the Notre Dame football team this season, has withdrawn from the University because of illness, Notre Dame Associate Sports Information Direc­torJohn Heisler said yesterday. 
Jackson, a 6-0, I80-pound senior, missed nearly a month ofclasses after being hospitalized for tests and treatment following chronic weight loss, and he was advised to withdraw, Heisler said. 
He returned to his home in Fairfield, Iowa, last week, but plans to return to Notre Dame "at a later date," Heisler said. 
Jackson's illness has not been diagnosed, he said. "Initially they thought it was something fairly simple, a flu or an allergy, but the weight loss that went with it has not cleared up as quickly as ex­pected," he said. "The whole thing was kind ofa mystery." 
In his junior year,Jackson caught 28 passes for 363 yards and four touchdowns. Heisler said Jackson could apply for eligibility if he returns for the I986 season. 
Wells expects to run with Miller, Brown and Francisco 
ByJOE MURPHY 
Sports Writer 
They were born to run. The "Fast Four," Brandy Wells, Alvin Miller, Tim Brown and Hiawatha Francisco, are among the quickest football players in the nation. The foursome intends to display its combined speed by running together on the Notre Dame track relay team this winter. 
"We've talked about it and the four of us would be very impressive together. But that'sonly ifthe four of us stay healthy," says strong safety Wells. 
"We plan on it right now," says Brown, the Irish flanker. 
Miller singlehandlely won the Missouri state outdoor track tourna­ment his senior year of high school. Francisco and his brother D'Juan were the top Ohio quarter-mile state relay team while at Moeller High School in Cincinatti. Brown, captain of his high school track team, has been a top long jumper and 400­meters runner. 

For Wells, track competition has been a family tradition. 
"I have one sister, and she runs track. My father ran track and played football in college. I ran track last year for Notre Dame. I placed second in one meet and fourth in another, but I tore a muscle in my foot and was out six weeks." 
Wells captured the New Jersey state I00 meters title while attend­ing Monteclair High School. He earned four monograms as a sprinter in track, captained the team in his senior year, was selected to the all­state team and established county records in the I00 and 200 meters. 
The strong safety also ran on a na­tionally ranked indoor mile relay team which grabbed first place in the 1984 Vitalis Olympic Invita­tional. 
Despite his impressive list of ac­complishments in track, Wells says he wanted to play football in college. 
"Football has more opportunities than track," says Wells. "In football today, if you don't have speed, you can't play in the big time. I came to Notre Dame to play football. 
"I always thought I would go to a school like USC. When it came time to decide, this is the only place I wanted to go. I called Coach Faust and told him I would commit early, which took the pressure off me during the track season." 
Wells' speed makes him a highly rated and versatile football player. 
"Many schools recruited me as a tailback," says Wells. "Strong safety on the defense is similiar to a quar­terback. He makes all the checks and calls out the strength of the defense. We gave up only 64 yards passing Saturday and 88 the week before. 
We're pretty solid and we were really fired up for the game." 
Wells, who says he hopes to see more playing time as the season progresses, blocked a field goal at­tempt in Saturday's game against Michigan State. 
"In the Michigan game, he came close twice. The coaches said 'keep trying; you'll get one,' and he did in the Michigan State game," says Brown ofhis former roomate, Wells. 
"I lined up with Rick D-iBer­nardo," says Wells. "I said, 'if you can get their guy to move back, I can block this one.' It looked like they were putting a little drive together. After the block, we gained posses­sion and the offense went down and scored." 
Wells said his number-one priority is to do well, and he's glad to be playing. 
"I have the ability. Now, I need the opportunity," says the sophomore. 
"Last year was hard. It took a lot of adjusting. I really grew up in New York City. Although I like the stu­dents, its slow here in comparison. 
"Freshman year was kind of a dis­appointment for me. It's easy to be down when we were losing and I wasn't playing." 
During the Navy game, Wells injured his left knee and underwent arthroscopic surgery. He had sur­gery on his right knee earlier in his career. 
''I'm back at 100 percent. I ran, lifted and studied here this sum­mer," says Wells. 
While Wells is looking forward to running indoor track this winter he is concentrating on winning football games right now. Track will have to wait. 
None ofthe four has raced against the other yet. "We're going to find out who's the fastest in track season," says Brown. 







