a.a.eqp ~¢_:
-----. U 42&ii&SU4W-_ .0. A 4CCCA!A_ .A 2 --------. -.
r 
Baldness-page 11 

VOL XIX, NO. 89 th<: indqx-nlknt ~tudent rwwspaper serving notre Jam<: and saint mary's THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1985
................. 
Reagan plugs tax plan, stresses U.S. renewal in State of Union talk 
Associated Press companies that locate in depressed urban "enterprise zones," and tui­
WASHINGTON President tion tax credits to help families who Reagan, in his fourth State of the send their children to private Union address, asked Congress last schools. 
,night to pass a tax simplification bill Even before Reagan made his tax that he said would help unleash "the proposal, Senate Majority Leader tremendous pent-up power of our Robert Dole, R-Kan., said it would be economy." "very difficult" to overhaul the tax 
Making the annual evening ad­system this year, given the law­dress to both houses of Congress on makers' preoccupation with his 74th birthday, Reagan said "we Reagan's proposed spending cuts in did what we promised" in his first the budget the president sent to term, and he described the United Congress on Monday. States as "renewed -stronger, freer 
In his remarks, broadcast nation­
and more secure than before." ally, Reagan declared "a second In prepared remarks, Reagan American Revolution" of hope, op­barely mentioned the record federal portunity, technological progress deficit or his controversial budget­and the promise ofa free and peace­
cutting plan just submitted to ful world. Congress. Rather, he reaffirmed "We have begun well," he said. American support for freedom "But it's only a beginning. We are 
movements in Afghanistan and not here to congratulate ourselves Nicaragua, stressed his proposals for on what we have done but to chal­helping the nation's low-income lenge ourselves to finish what has citizens, and embraced guidelines not yet been done." for an overhaul of the tax system. Reagan said the revolution he 
K.of C., DuLac debated at CLC
envisions "must carry the promise of He did not endorse the tax plan opportunity for all" and that blacks 
By ELIZABETH FLOR dent Life, said. "He really has a long­of Student Affairs, University Mini­put forth by the Treasury Depart­and other minorities "will not have SeniorStaffReporter time vested interest in that facility." stries and student government.
ment in December; rather, Reagan fulJ and equal power until they have Because Shaheen single-handedly Executive Coordinator Dougsaid he was directing his Treasury fulJ economic power." 
A "social contract" with the got the old post office building for Wurth said the proposal was "not in­secretary to begin working with Reagan also called for a constitu­
Knights of Columbus and at least "a the K. of C., Goldrick thought they tended to criticize the Catholiccongressional authors and commit­tional amendment to permit organ­reevaluation of DuLac concerning "ought to see what he thinks" about foundation or the character of the tees to write bipartisan legislation ized prayer in public schools and University approval of religious other uses ofthe facility. University."
based on principles of "fairness, legislation to outlaw abortion. 
groups" were two topics of discus­Goldrick read excerpts of a 1967 Mike Quinn, also an executive co­
simplicity and growth." He said free-market principles 
sion at last night's Campus Life letter by Notre Dame President Fa­ordinator, described the results of aHe provided guidelines that he also must apply to American farm­
Council meeting. ther Theodore Hesburgh when the committee studying student govern­
said would ensure no "tax increase ers, many of whom he acknowl­A Student Senate resolution University gave the building to the ment structure. The committee,in disguise" -mentioning in particu­edged are "in great financial which opened the Knights of Co­K. of C. The letter authorized the composed of 16 members from thelar that he would not "jeopardize the distress." 
lumbus building to campus social building for "exclusive use as coun­five branches of student govern­mortgage interest deduction" for "We need an orderly transition to events on free nights was "tabled" cil chambers." ment, is reviewing each area: classfamily homes. He vowed a top tax a market-oriented farm economy," 
by the council. Hesburgh also wrote that if at officers, the Student Activities 
rate of "no more than 35 percent, Reagan said. "We can help farmers "There is an additional area I think some other time the University Board, Hall President's Council, thepossibly lower," to replace the cur­best, not by expanding federal pay­I needed to bring up. I would like to wanted to use it, "other suitable and Cabinet and the Student Senate. 
rent top rate of 50 percent. ments, but by making fundamental table the resolution and bring it back mutually agreeable quarters will be Overall, the committee hasTo achieve a lower rate, the plan reforms, keeping interest rates next meeting after touching base found." noticed "a serious overlap and lackwould trim "many tax preferences," down and knocking down foreign with Eli Shaheen," John Goldrick, Asecond resolution ofthree parts ofcommunication," Quinn said.
but Reagan proposed at least two trade barriers to American farm ex­Associate Vice President for Resi--reevaluating University approval of A resolution recommendation to new ones himself -tax breaks for ports." 
religious groups, inquiring into charge graduate and law school stu­Notre Dame's "pastoral mission," dents a fee for The Observer was and establishing a Religious Board of controversial among council mem­Approval -failed almost unani­bers.
Burke, Abood battle for District 1 
mously after much discussion. Student Senator Javier Oliva said Both candidates expressed con­Passed earlier and almost unani­Notre Dame and Saint Mary's under­
By BETH CORNWELL "I believe that we have the tools 
mously by the Student Senate, the graduates now pay a mandatory S6News Staff available on this campus to repair cern over current housing proposal faced general council dis­fee. The Observer, which printsthe problems with social opportuni­problems. Said Abood, "I hope to gruntlement. The proposed com­10,500 papers a day for 7,500 under-The race for the Student Senate ties we're currently facing. I hope to push the revision of the prol:ess mission was to consist of membersposition in District One is nearing its convince The Observer to provide placing transfer students on­
see CLC, page 4
better advance notice of campus so­campus. Often, a student will trans­of the theology department, Office 

close, and the two candidates, junior 
K.M. Burke and sophomore Chris cial events. I'd like to see an increase fer in his sophomore year and never in hall-sponsored non-alcoholic get a chance to live on-campus."
Abood have begun wrapping up their campaigns. eventS. I plan to promote the exis-"I believe that the building ofnew 
dormitories would help to alleviate
The district, which includes 
some pressure on the housing admi­
residence halls Alumni, Carroll, nistrators," Burke stated. "Far too
Holy Cross, Lewis, Old College, St. many freshmen are forced to live in
Ed's, Sorin, and Walsh, will vote on temporary housing and too many
Tuesday, February 12. 
'85 
others are kept off-campus." Burke and Abood, both relatively 

Student Each candidate expressed a belief new to District One, are concerned 
Government that the position of student senator primarily with issues involving stu­Elections 
could be both effective and influen: dent life. Burke, who has two years tial. experience in student government, 
"There's a fine Hoe between gat­said, "I feel that the senator should 
hering information and acting on it,"
tent 'adopt-a-transfer-student' pro­
provide a means of communication Abood noted. "I believe that agram and improve it."
between the students and their gov­Senator must do both jobs.
Burke commented, "I feel that a
ernment. As a senator, I would give a better utilization of the already use­Burke summarized her position,fair representation of student view­
ful social space in the dorms would saying, "I hope to use newsletterspoints and needs." 
enhance social opportunities for and surveys to keep in touch with 
Campus social life is an issue everyone. The newly formed BOFA student feeling. With constant com­
which concerns both candidates. In club is an excellent example of suc­munication, I believe I can make the 
summary ofhis position, Abood said, cessful social planning." student Senate work." 
Let  us  
have  it.  
More Far Sides?  

More movie reviews? 
Let us know. In today's Observer, the 1985 Readership Survey gives you the chance to tell us what you want in your campus daily. We ask you to take a few minutes to fill the survey out Pencils will be provided on tables in the dining halls at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Let us have it, so we can let you have the best possible Observer. Sorry, mail subscribers, but surveys only will be distributed on campus. For a copy, write P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN. 

'. 
. . 
, . , . , . ' . 
The Observer 
Thursday, February 7, 1985-page 2 

}OWt C. Akers, assistant professor of modern languages, and Janice Grow, assistant professor of education at Saint Mary's, have received $5,000 grants from the Lilly Endownment. The awards are designed to help prepare new courses for the college's curriculum. Akers will use his award to research and prepare a course on "The Chicano Experience Through Fiction and Film" and Grow's topic of research will be "A Multi-Cultural Approach to Literature for the Elementary Curriculum." The Lilly Endownment gave 15 awards to faculty members at independent Indiana colleges 
and universities. Saint Mary's was one of three colleges to receive two awards. -The Observer 
RidJard.jetJSen, associate professor ofbiology at Saint Mary's, has been awarded a $40,300 grant by the National Science Foundation to support his research on "Seasonal and Annual Varia­tion in Leaf Morphology of Selected Red and Black Oaks." Under­graduate students at the college will assist in the project, doing statistical studies using microcomputers to examine changes in leaf shapes and sizes in different kinds of oaks. -The Observer 
Lucille Thompsonwanted to keep physically fit and be able to fend offpurse snatchers, so at the age of88 she is splinter­ing 2-inch boards with her bare hands and smashing inch-thick con­crete with her feet. Even her grandchildren are impressed. "Now, they call me 'Killer,"' she says. Mrs. Thompson took up martial arts on her last birthday, enrolling in a school in her hometown of Dan­ville. -AP 
Of Interest 
Archbishop Rembert Weakland of Mil­
waukee will speak at the Center for Continuing Education at Notre Dame tonight at 8. Weakland is the chairman of the Bishop's Com­mittee which wrote the recent pastoral letter on Catholic Social Teaching and the U.S. Economy. He will speak on "The Church and Economics." His lecture is being sponsored by the Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism. Admittance is free and the public is welcome. -The Observer 
Classical guitarist Ramon Justicia will perform tonight at 7 in Stapleton Lounge of LeMans Hall at Saint Mary's. jus­ticia, professor at the American Guitar Institute in New York City, has presented concerts with the Orchestra ofthe Manhattan School of Music at Carnegie Hall and with the Symphony Orchestra and Firueroa Quintet in his native Puerto Rico. Tickets for the perfor­mance at Saint Mary's are S4; $2 for Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students with their ID. Tickets may be reserved by calling Saint 
Mary's College Ticket Office at 284-4626. The concert is co­sponsored by Saint Mary's music department and the Spanish club of the department ofmodern languages. -The Observer 
A presidential debate between the candidates for student body president will be held tonight at 7 in Room 2D of LaFortune Student Center. All are welcome. The debate is sponsored by Ombudsman and WVFI. -The Observer 
Weather 
SWl.Sh.ine but continued cold today 
J" with highs only in the mid teens and low 20s. ' Temperatures tonight are expected to dip to 5 below. Clear skies and cold temperatures will contimue tomorrow, with highs expected to reach 20. 
The Observer (USPS 'j99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. lbe Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's CoUege. Subscriptions may be purchased for S30 per year ( $20 per se­mester) by writing 1be Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46t;'j6. 
The ObKrvn is a member of The Aaeodated Pnss. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
Today's issue was produced by: 
Production Consultant .................... Stevc Design Editor.............................. Anne Long DeslgnAssistant........ Jane Anne Riedford Layout Staff.................... Richard Connelly Typesetters ....jennifer Bigott, Tracy Brin· gardner News Editor ......................... Keith Harrison Copy Editor ........................ Mary Heilmann Sports Copy Editor .................. Larry Burke VIewpoint Copy Editor......... Cindy Boyle VIewpoint Layout.. ...........Carollne Belin Features Copy Editor .. Margaret McCabe Features Layout Margaret McCabe, Chris Bowler ND Day Editor ................... Donna Gavigan Typist ...................................... Vera Hillegas~ 
.Ad Design .. Susan O'Hara, Kathy Krenzer Pbotograpber ............................ Phil Deeter 
Contrary to popular opinion, student leaders doing a good job 
The name of the Notre Dame student body president 
is Rob Bertino. 
This is news to nearly half of the student population, according to a recent Ombudsman survey. The poll also indicated that a whopping 74 percent of the students have no idea who their student representative is. 
Why? 
Some people would say the apathy toward student government at Notre Dame is just a mirror of the na: tion's apathy toward politics in general. Some people would say student government is powerless and cannot accomplish anything. 
Some people should get a clue. 
Contrary to popular belief, those unknown student leaders have actually done a pretty good job. Despite basking in anonymity all year, they have made noticeable gains in many facets ofstudent life. 
For those students looking to escape the highway robbery of the bookstore, there is the Student Saver general store in LaFortune. Selling school supplies and health and beauty aids, Stu­
prominent project of the 
student leaders. 
But there are others. 
For campus clubs and or­ganizations, there is now a place to buy custom­designed jerseys without trekking into South Bend. It's the Notre Dame T-Shirt Shop, and it's new this year. 
And these leaders have been looking out for your safety as well. For those barflies -or, in fact, for anyone who drives at night ­there is the new Dry Driving Club. AU you have to do is promise to stay offthe hard stuffand drive your buddies home, and Senior Bar will give you all the Pepsi you can handle. It's a great program, and you can thank your student leaders for it. 
Even the students who can't stand dorm life anymore 
got a helping hand, in the form of a landlord's open 
house last week in LaFortune. 
The much-maligned Hall President's Council got in on the action, too. The Blow Off For Awhile Club is a good concept: fill those vacant hall party rooms with entertainment, food and students. It promotes socializ­ing with people from halls other than your own, thus helping to get rid of that "our dorms are like frater­nities" silliness. It's just too bad the HPC couldn't come up with a better name than BOFA. 
And for everyone who despises theme nights at the dining halls, Ombudsman sponsored a forum with Director of Food Services Bill Hickey. No one showed up, ofcourse, but that's a reflection ofthe student body, 
: AMIGO'S 
:

t Presents 
• s 

+ 
i' 
t 1) 

: 

: Frozen Margaritas + &Cocktails $1.25 
+ 


Keith Harrison 
Assistant News Editor 
notOBUD. 

None ofthis is to imply that our student leaders were perfect public servants this year. It would be nice, for instance, to see some .response to the recently proposed curriculum changes. 
But these leaders certainly haven't spent all their time sitting on their wallets. And if three-fourths of the students don't know the names of these leaders, some­thing is wrong. 
It's time to make amends. So now, some introduc­
tions. 

Do you live in Pasquerilla 
East? Then meet Tom
Well, whe.~ heave +hey occorMp/;sJ.e,) (;tlltywa.y?
dent Saver is the most 

Abood. He's student 

your senate representative. 

Are you a Stanford Stud? Well, it's about time you met your representative, Pat Browne. 
Hey you wild women of Walsh: step up and meet Paul Healy. 
Dan McNamara is the guy for Big Red, and for every­one living without parietals, 
Javier  Oliva  is  the  off­ 
campus representative.  
At least  that's  over.  But  

don't look now, because it's almost election time again. Soon there will be a whole 
new batch of names and faces vying for your vote. And there will be a whole new bunch of ideas on how to improve student life. 
This time around, get with the program. Check out the candidates and their positions on the issues. You're not going to find leaders who will solve every campus problem. But, as shown this year, good student leaders can make a difference. 
The Observer cncourag"' !he free expression ofopinions throu~ letters to tht: editor. Letters should be brief(approximately 2SO words) and typed whenever possible. All letters should be •igned (allhough !heauthor's name need not be published), and should include a phone number at which lhe author may be reached. Letters arc published on a space-available b~is. Let· ters arc edited to correct errors in grammar and for space considerations. 
............................
~ 
t 2313 E. Edison (At Ironwood) t t 1 mile east of Notre Dame t 
+.••••••••••••••••••••••••••••. 
MEXICAN/ :
AMERICAN + RESTAURANT 
i 
• 
THURS NITE 
i 

OFTHE 


6:30pm to 1O:OOpm 
+ Draft Beer 
i 
$1.00 + 
+ 

The Observer Thursday, February 7, 1985 -page 3 


jerry Evanski (right) goes over some details of the high tech love notes S25 at Michigan State Uni­producing a "Video Valentine" with Terri Hamlin, versity. 20, of Fam~ington Hills, Mich. Evanski produces 
Business students try title defense 
By MARK E. WINTERS Paul Conway, an assistant busi­in competition. The use of tht: li­News Staff ness professor, is the faculty advisor brary and telephone is prohibited," to the team which includes seniors Conway said. 
A national title is on the line this Liz Brodeur, Michael Hay, John The biggest problem the team weekend -not at the ACC, but at the McHugh, and Janeen-ann Olds. Con­faces is that they have never worked University of Virginia, where four way portrays this year's team as together before. "We really don't Notre Dame students will try to se­"good analysts who answer ques­know what to expect," team mem­cure a second consecutive victory in tions well." ber Michael Hay said. a major business competition. The students were chosen "on the 
The participants were informed of 
basis of interest and and perfor­

The students will travel to the the competition last week. Since 
mance in the corporate statistics

Mcintire Commerce Invitational to Sunday, the team has reviewed two 
course last semester," Conway said.

defend the title against the Univer­cases in preparation for the tourna­
"111e invitation is highly competi­

sity of Florida-Gainesville, the Uni­ment, including a 60-page report on 
tive, and the case is kept locked

versity of Illinois, Texas A&M, and the Marriot corporation. Conway 
away until the competition begins,"

the University ofMinnesota. expects this year's case also will be 
he added. 
lengthy.

The tournament itself is based on Each team is given 15 hours to Should the team come away vic­the popular case study method used analyze the case and prepare a five­torious this weekend, Notre Dame 
in many business schools today. The page typewritten solution. Then the would be the first school ever to win 
participants must give both written team must present an oral defense of the title twice, and Conway expectsand oral analyzations of a complex their solution before the judging national business media attention 
business policy case based on an ac­panel. The written and oral presen­for the champions.
tual company. tations each constitute 50 percent of 
In the past two years, the Marriot the final score. The overall best competitor will and Crutchfield corporations have "Computers are prohibited, and be announced at an award dinner served as the basisfor the case study. we're only allowed ten books for use this Saturday. 
Honor society dues promote confusion 
WE'LL PAYYOU TO GET INTO 


SHAPE IS SUMMER. 
Ifyou have at least two years of college left, you can spend six weeks at our Army ROTC Basic Camp thissummer and earn approximately $600. 
And if you qualify, you 
can enter the Rare 2­
year Program this fall and 
receive up to $1,000 a year. 
But the big payoff happens on graduation day. That's when you receive an officer's commission. 
So get your body in 

shape (not to mention your 
bank dccoun:). 
EnroL in A~y ROTC. For more Information, contact your Professor of Military Science. 
ARMYROTC. 

BEALLYOUCAM BE. 
CALL LTC SKINN"SR OR CPT DOMINGO 
239-6264

··fr$J 
WHY DOES ETHANOL SMELL SO BAD? 
will not be one of the questions asked tonight at the Student Body Presidential Debate. 
But the questions will be tough. Just come and find out. 
Tonight at 7 Room 20 LaFortune 
Or just listen to the debate live on WVFI-AM, and call in a question of your own. Phi I Donahue would be proud. Be a part of the action. 

Debate sponsored by OBUD, WVFI·AM, Scholastic and The Observer. 
ByJOHN WALTERS 
StaffReporter 

Imagine you are an outstanding engineering student who has just been invited to join a prestigious honor society. But should it cost 
SSO? 

This initiation fee has created con· fusion on campus concerning the engineering honor society, Tau Beta Pi, as prospective members have ex­pressed skepticism concerning the application of this fee. 
These impressions of the society, however, are false, according to senior Mike Connolly, student presi­dent of the Indiana Gamma Chapter of Notre Dame. 
"The main purpose of the organi­
zation." explained Connolly, "is to 
mark in a fitting manner those who 
have conferred honor upon their 
alma mater by exhibiting distin­
guished scholarship and exemplary 
character as undergraduates in engi· 
neering." 

"It is the national engineering 
honor society," remarked James 
Froula, executive director of Tau 
Beta . Pi, from the headquarters in 
Knoxville, Tenn. 

The organization derives its influ­ence not only from its large national membership, but also from its strin­gent entrance requirements. Al­though he would not specify the exact GPA requirement, Connolly said, "The required grade point is well above that of the dean's list. Only one-eighth of all juniors and one-fifth ofall seniors in engineering are invited to apply." 
"A prospective member must also complete some sort ofproject, such as writing a paper, helping out with an event, or doing jobs affiliated with Tau Beta Pi," he added. 
The current ninety-five members 
on campus were selected by Con­
nolly and a small staff on the basis of 
scholarship and exemplary charac­
ter. 

ConnoHy claims that the SSO fee should not deter prospective mem­bers. "When I first joined, I didn't want to pay it (the fee). However, all of the money is spent within the or­ganization for the benefit of the members." 
"If the student is not able to pay," he adds, "we will help them out. Last year we paid the initiation fees for five new members." 
Most of the money is channeHed to the national offices in Knoxville, where it is used for membership cer­tificates, four-year subscriptions to the quanerly magazine, The Bent, one-year subscriptions to the Tau Beta Pi newsletter, and copies ofthe society's constitution. 
In addition, Froula noted, "the new member receives a 'bent,' which is a sort of a ceremonial key that is gold-plated and bears the member's name." 
The remaining fraction of the fee is spent locally by the chapter on an initiation banquet for the new mem­bers and other chapter expenses. Unlike many other campus organiza­tions, the society receives no en­dowments or donations. 
Tau Beta Pi's purpose is to recognize the diligent efforts of en­gineering students, but Connolly ex­tends the organization into a beneficial, functioning agency for all those enrolled in the college ofengi­neering. He cites Tau Beta Pi's co­sponsorship of Engineering Week, engineering study breaks, tutoring services to engineering students, and industry plant tours as a few ex­amples of the society's activities. 
Connolly's primary concern is to create more participation among members. "Once accepted, you're a lifetime member, and it can only help to meet other engineers and learn about futures and keys to suc­cess in engineering careers. After all, that is the career toward which are members are headed." 





The Observer Thursday, February 7, 1985-page 4 
Archbishop to speak on economics 
ByJOHN MENNELL 
AssistantNews Editor 
Archbishop Rembert Weakland, chairman of the Bishop's committee which wrote the recent pastoral let­ter on Catholic Social Teaching and the U.S. Economy will speak tonight Notre Dame's Center for Continuing Education. 
The lecture "The Church and Eco­nomics" will be delivered at 8 p.m. It is sponsored by the Cushwa Center for the Study of American Cat­holicism. 
A draft of the letter was released last November but will not be finalized until the bishops meet later this year. 
Reports in The Observer said the 120-page draft had strong language that surprised some experts and 
Jury says 
'no libel' 
ASSOCiated Press 
MIAMI -A federal jury denied Watergate burglar E. Howard Hunt S 1 million in damages yesterday, deciding that he was not libeled in an article by an ex-CIA agent sug­gesting Hunt was part of a conspir­acy to assassinate President John Kennedy. 
In a trial four years ago, Hunt was awarded S650,000 in damages. That verdict was overturned because ofa flawed instruction to the jury. 
This time a six-member jury ruled in favor of liberty Lobby, a right­wing Washington group that publishes The Spotlight tabloid, where the article appeared in 1978. 
The focus ofthe suit was an article written by former CIA agent Victor Marchetti and published seven years ago. The article contended that a 1966 CIA memo purported Hunt was in Dallas the day Kennedy was slain and suggested he had a role in the murder. 
Corrections 
Because of a reporting error, a story about student elections at Saint Mary's in yesterday's Observer was incorrect. Jeanne Heller is run­ning for vice president for student affairs, and Julie Harmon is running for vice president of academic af­fairs. 
Also, the Blow-Off For Awhile Club (BOFA) was last night at Pangborn. 
The person on the front page of yesterday's paper was incorrectly identified. The student pictured at the Hall Presidents' Council meeting is Stanford Hall President Gene Boes. The Observer regrets the er­
rors. 
CLC 
continuedfrom page 1 
graduate students, is making busi­ness sacrifices by putting out many papers in areas where non-paying people are, such as LaFortune. 
Oliva's main argument was, "The Observer is a key communication guide for this University, and I think it (charging graduate and law stu­dents) would improve the quality of the paper." 
However, Father David Tyson, Vice President for Student Affairs, said he did an unofficial survey of graduate students last year when The Observer finances were in ques­tion and the paper was considering charging graduate students. Several graduate students contacted Tyson. 
Tyson said, "They were irate that the University would even consider such a thing." 
creation of obs with ~rl~·~ .. Chicago's Holy Name Cathedral. 

·.. ·t!.. '·.··.·.·.···.·..··.··.··
...· 
J.' ' 
~~ 
•' 
. 

APPhoto
Funeral Services Bishop Timothy Lyne swings a thurible over thepalled coffin of Chicago Fire Dept. Capt. Daniel Nockels during services Tuesday at 
sparked controversy about the bis­
hops' role in political affairs. 
Weakland, archbishop of Mil­
waukee since 1977, was involved in 
the framing of Vatican II and was 
elected Abbot Primate of the Inter­
national Benedictine Confederation. 
In the letter the bishop's call for an "experiment in economic democracy: the creation ofan order that guarantees the minimum condi­tions of human dignity in the eco­nomic sphere for every person." 
Some of the main points stressed in the document include: 
•"The 
fact that more than 1 5 per­cent of our nation's population live below the poverty level." 

•"The 
most urgent priority for U.S. domestic ecomomic policy is the 



and decent working conditions." 
•The 
direction of United States foreign policy should be shifted from military programs to those that re-emphasize basic human needs. 

•Finally, 
"a consumerist mentality which encourages immediate gratification mortgages our future. Both our cultural values and our tax structure need to be revised to dis­courage excessively high levels of consumption." 


Born in 1927, Weakland was or­dained in 1951. He served on the Council of Superiors General from 1968 to 1977. 
Currently he is a member of the Board of Directors of the Wisconsin Catholic Conference and chairman ofthe Bishop's ad hoc Committee on 
-------. 
~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Thursday, February 7, 1985-page 5 
SBP candidate debate slated to air on WVFI 
By MIKE MILLEN 
Senior StaffReporter 
WVFI will broadcast a debate be­tween Student Body Presidential candidates junior Bill Healy and junior Pat Browne tonight at 7. 
Sponsored by Ombudsman, the one-hour debate will include a panel of representatives from The Observer, Scholastic, and WVFI (AM 640). Questions will be accepted from the radio audience over the phone line ( 239-7605) and from those in the LaFortune studio. 
Browne, who is running with vice presidential candidate Joanie Cahill, also a junior, said the debate "is a good thing to find out where the candidates stand." Regarding strat­egy, he said he is "really strong in im­proving life on campus," adding, "We will concentrate on getting stu­dent government closer to the stu­dents." 
Healy, who has junior Duane Lawrence as his running mate, also thought the debate a good idea, saying, "We think it's a good forum to get out some of the issues." He added, "Student government needs to be restructured," and said that his 
focus will be on "social life and stu­dent government" itself. 

BOFAII 
Pangborn Hall was the scene for last night's meeting of the Hall President's Council's BOFA Club. This was the second meeting ofBOFA, which was esta~lished toprovide a social alternative. 
BANKING••• ON CAMPUS AT SAINT MARY'S 
1st Source Bank's office, located at Saint Mary's College in Haggar College Center, offers &ee checking to Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students and faculty. 
In addition, this office brings you the convenience of 24 banking locations to serve you! 
Banking Hours -Monday through Friday 
Mon. thru Thurs.-11:30 a.m.-3:30p.m. Friday -11:00 a.m.-4:00p.m. ~ source 
Join Michiana's 1st Team ~Bank for unsurpas_sed banking servicef Member F.D.I.C. 

Saint Mary's to host 1st harpsichord fest 
By BETH WHELPLEY 
News Staff 
Music will fill the ears of many in­terested students when the in­augural meeting of The Midwest Historical Keyboard Society takes place at Saint Mary's on February 21­23. 
Harpsichordists will be gathering in Moreau Hall from as far as Iowa, Pennsylvania, and Kentucky for this first meeting of its kind in the Mid· west, according to Clayton Hender­son, chairman of the Saint Mary's music department. 
The weekend will consist of three major recitals with public recep­tions afterward, and the presenta­tion of several papers on harpsichord music. It will also pro­vide a stage for several harpsichord builders to demonstrate tuning and maintenance ofthe instrUment. 
Looking over the events, Hender· son commented, "It really is a com­bination of performance, scholarly, and practical parts." 
Thursday's recital will feature Kenneth Drake from the University ofIllinois, and on Friday, Ed Parmen­tier of the University of Michigan will perform. A duet by Julane Rodgers and Annette Lunde will be played on Saturday afternoon. This performance will feature some Bach and Handel. "This is especially ap­propriate," said Henderson, "since Saturday will be Bach's 300th birthday." 

Although there has been a South­ern Historical Keyboard Society for over thirty years, there have been no formal meetings of harpsichordists or other keyboard instrument players in the Midwest. 

A friend of Henderson's, who realized the need for organization and was impressed with the facilities at Saint Mary's, requested the meeting be held on the Saint Mary's campus. 
Henderson encourages not only music majors, but all music lovers to attend. "I think for anyone inter· ested in music, especially of an ear­lier historical period, this would be very interesting. It is the first oppor­tunity to hear first-rate artists in this kind of music." 
All of the events, open to t:de entire campus, will be held in Moreau Hall. A full schedule of events will be available on Thursday from noon until five o'clock at the Saint Mary's music department. 


Thursday, February 7, 1985-page 6 
~.. . . .. "' . 
' "'),. ~ .. 



COMPUTER NERD 
-Y:ouknow this stereotype. 
And you know it doesn't apply to you. Yet finding an employer who ignores stereotypes and recognizes talent may seem difficult, if not impossible. 
At The Travelers, we know excep­tional talent when we see it. And we have a program that prepares gifted, highly moti­vated individuals for management careers in data processing. 
Our ACCENT (AccelsratedEntrylnto Management) program will c! 1a.llenge your technical and intellectual abilities. Through rotations, you'll contribute to areas like Net­work Design and Development, Personal Computer Development, and Operating Sys­tem Support. And across-the-board experi­ence is good preparation for management responsibilities. 
And with your ACCENT training 
behind you, you'll be ready for a visible man­agement position. In a department with an annual budget exceeding $200 million dol­lars, state-of-the-art data centers in Hartford and Atlanta, and one of the largest distrib­uted networks in the world. 
The Travelers is a diversified financial services corporation with $33 billion dollars in assets. We are committed to improving productivity with the help of such leading­edge technologies as the 12,000 IBM per­sonal computers we've purchased. 
So if you want a career that matches your ability, ACCENT wants you. Come talk to The Travelers representative on campus. 
Nerds need not apply. 
. ~ 
TheTravelersJ 
The Travelers Companies Hartford, Connect1cut 06115 
.. , :.l ... '.... ; 
\ ... ·' 
. . _.· .. ., 

Recruiting Date: 2/15/85 
' 
r 
( 
' 
f 


The Observer Thursday, February 7, 1985-page 7 


The Observer/Phil Deeter
StudentSaver shopper 
Cecelia Williams, a Notre Dame junior, pauses to inspect the goods offeredfor saleat the newStudentSaver store. Located on the secondfloor ofLaFortune, thestore is open afternoonsfrom 3 until 7 Monday through Friday. 
Senators fight pension 



Dems respond to Reagan speech, proclaim their party 'alive and well' 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Democratic leaders declared yesterday their party is "alive and well" and looking to the future, as the opposition party responded to President Reagan's State of the Union message in a 30­minute television show. 
The Democratic Party "knows how to change," party officeholders emphasized in the program, broad­cast nationally by two of the three commercial television networks. The third, ABC, opted for a regularly scheduled soap opera. 
The show focused on elected offi­cials talking about deficits, Social Se­curity, taxes and defense spending with 58 ordinary Americans in four discussion groups across the nation. 
"Our objective is not to disagree with our president and his party, al· though our differences are many," 
SQUARE RECRUITING
D 

SquareD Company, a leading manufacturer of electrical and electronic equipment will be conducting on-campus interviews on Tuesday, February 26~ 1985, seeking Accountants primarily for the Lexington, Kentucky operations. 
Square D Lexington is one of the largest in the company's network of production facilities. Occupying 500,000 square feet ofspace has more than 1400 engineering, accounting, production, marketing and adver­tising personnel. Products manufactured in Lexington include Loading Centers, Industrial Safety Switches and Metering Devices. If you are interested in working for a progressive company that offers competitive compensation and benefit programs, and challenging employment opportunities, sign up with your placement office. 
An equal opportunity employer. 
SQUARED C:DMPANY 
! 
!
: 
:+ 
+
+
+
+ 
: ++ : 
+ 
: + 
+ + 
+ Budweiser 1/2 bbl
+ 
Hamms 1/2 bbl : Budweiser Quarts 

said Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas, the narrator of the show produced by the Democratic campaign com· mittees. "like all Americans, we must celebrate any success that builds a better future. We believe that Democrats should work with Republicans to insure that kind of future. 
"But tonight is the first opportu· nity for our Democratic Party to speak to America since the defeat of 1984," Clinton added, going on to say that "resounding" defeat by Reagan last November left an im­pression on the party. 

"We are listening and we do care," said Senate Minority Leader Robert Byrd, R-W.Va. 
"This is a party that knows it has to 
change, a party that wants to reach 
out to all Americans, Democrats, 

Republicans and independents," 
said Clinton. 

NBC and CBS agreed to broadcast 
the response right after Reagan's 
speech to the joint session of 
Congress on Capitol· Hill, but ABC 
broadcast an episode of its prime­
time soap opera "Dynasty." ABC will 
air the response Friday night at 
l0:30p.m. 

As has been the case in the past few years, the Democratic "response" was taped before Reagan's speech and responded to it only in general terms. 
"We have had a very acceptable rate ofeconomic growth in the past year," House Majority Leader Jim Wright, 0-Texas, said in the show. But he went on to talk about a record number of bankruptcies, farm failures and bank collapses. 
The show claimed the latest tax reform idea · tax simplification ­came from the Democrats three years ago in the Bradley-Gephardt bill. 
$32.99 27.99 

$10.29 

• ••••• • •••. liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii--iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiill 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The military pension system, which provides a minimum ofhalfpay for hundreds of thousands ofservice personnel who retire as early as their late 30s, has been the target before of reformers inside and outside the Pentagon, but has resisted attempts to change it. 
Budget Director David Stockman is the latest critic, castigating the sys­tem as "a scandal ... an outrage." 
He told Congress on Tuesday that "institutional forces in the military are more concerned about protect· 
ing their retirement benefits than in addition to any salary he earns in a they are about protecting the secur-new career. ity ofthe American people." According to the Pentagon, a 
The counterattack on Capitol Hill lieutenant colonel who retires after 
was quick, but even some of Stock-man's strongest opponents conceded the pension system needs reform. 
"I do think we need to take a look at the pension system," said Sen. Sam Nunn, 0-Ga., at a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing. Nunn, one of the most widely respected defense experts in Congress, then blasted Stockman's comments. 
The military retirement system began after the Civil War, conceived as a method ofluring Union veterans out of the service. Over the years, it was also considered to be a prime lure for recruits, offsetting the relatively low pay and postings to 
far-flung locations that were the lot ding to the Retired Officers of military men. Association, a private group. 
+
+ 
+
+
+ 
:+ : 
+
+
+
+ 

' 
When: Thurs, Feb. 7 at 7:00 Where: South Dining HaD, Faculty Dining Room 
*Free snacks and beverages 
*Tutors on hand to answer questions *Free mock-MCATexams given 
.loin uaforan informal reception to learn more about the MCAT&am and tlae Stanley Kaplan Program. 
But with millions of men pouring 
into the service in World War II and 
the Korean war, the system ex­
panded. 

In 1960, there were only about 300,000 retirees. But now, that total has ballooned to 1.4 million people drawing military pensions. 
A military person is eligible to draw half his base pay after 20 years in the service, rising to a maximum of three-quarters ofbase pay after 30 years service. There is no pension for less than 20 years. 
But he can also draw the pension 
20 years would be paid a pension of S1,706.70 a month and a sergeant first class would get $702 monthly. 
The benefits are taxed but they 
also increase along with active duty 
pay. 

The Pentagon currently is spend­ing S16 billion for pensions, a figure that will rise to J17.8 billion next year and an estimated S44 billion by the year 2000. Currently, the total accounts for 5.7 percent of the defense budget. 
The average retired officer is 42 years old and draws a pension of $17,500 a year while the average en­listed man gets J9,600 a year, accor­

. . -. . I 
-. --­
-' • -• -.t< ·~--:: -. •. ,. . .....~ 
The Observer Thursday, February 7, 1985 -page 8 
Terrorists attack Iranian buildings; Khomeini blames U.S. for actions 
Associated Press 
TEHERAN, Iran -Terrorists at­tacked a Teheran government build­ing and set fire to an Iranian bank in West Germany yesterday during celebrations of the sixth anniversary of Iran's Islamic revolution. Two groups opposed to Ayatollah Ruhol­lah Khomeini claimed responsibility and vowed to continue the violence. 
The official Iranian news agency, 
IRNA, said terrorists mounted a 
grenade attack on a government 
building in the Iranian capital. It 
blamed the United States. 
The agency, monitored in Nicosia, Cyprus, said "two United States mer­cenary agents" riding a motorcycyle hurled two grenades into the ac­counting office of the Mostazafin (Oppressed) Foundation in Teheran at 8:45a.m. 
One grenade exploded, killing the maintenance chief of the building and wounding two security guards, IRNA said. It said one attacker was shot and killed, another was wounded and a third was arrested. 
In a telex to the London bureau of The Associated Press, the leftist Iranian Mujahedeen Khalq claimed responsibility for the attack on what it called a center of "military suppression and torture." It said one of the Mujahedeen was killed. 
In Frankfurt, an arson fire at the 
building housing the Bank Melli Iran 
injured 14 people. Police estimated 
$1.5 million in damage to the build·· 

ing. 
A police statement said two men entered the lobby of the seven-story building, pulled an "incendiary device" from a bag, set it on fire and fled. The blaze quickly spread to other floors, forcing some employees to jump to adjoining roofs. 
A caller from the royalist Fedajin Royal Iranian Monarchy claimed re­sponsibility for the arson in tele­phone calls to the West German news agency DPA and a Frankfurter Rundschau, and warned of further attacks. 
Ali Safavi, a spokesman for the Mujahedeen told The Associated Press in a recent interview in New York that the group was involved in a "life and death struggle agaiunst Khomeini" and planned to attack government officials and facilities in the most extensive effort since 
1979. 
The timing of the announced of­fensive coincides with the 1 0-day celebrations that began in Iran last Friday to mark the anniversary ofthe victory of the revolution and Khomeini's return. 
The Fedajin group is little known, despite claiming an earlier attack on an Iran Air office in Frankfurt. 
Helms raises funds for TV film to accuse Soviets of germ warfare 

working to develop the substance. 
"Using 'genetic engineering,' So­viet scientists are creating a new kind of 'flu' virus or bacteria by mixing the genes of poisonous snakes -like the central Asian cobra ­with common flu virus," the letter said. 
The mixture would result in "a new strain offlu that once inside the human body produces deadly cobra venom ... paralysis and death," the letter said. 
The coalition is an offshoot of the 
National Congressional Club, a poli­

tical action committee operated by 
associates of Sen. Jesse  Helms,  R­ 
N.C.  
Helms would star in  the docu­ 

mentary, titled "Germ Warfare: the Communist Secret Weapon," the let­

~~C) Tan with your cJ~f!Jf'!)~c!J Valentine ~r!)r!J
c:l() 

(or someone else's) ()
c:J 

TAN-.HAwAL 
sun tonnrg salm 277-7026 
REDEEM BY FEB. 14, 1985 
._----------------L-------------J 
\ 

FOR RENT 
furnished~ 3 bedroom home washer & dryer close to campus 
4 Roommates Needed 
Only $125.00 each 
call287-0148for apt. 

Ir-------------,
BOOTH SPECIAL 

I 
II 1 I 
Buy 15 visits 1 at$40 1 get5FR££ 1 
I I
1--------------i
I I
BED SPECIAL 

·1I II 
7 visits $28 I (reg. $39) 1 
I I 
I I
1-------------1 
I I
COMBO SPECIAL 

I 6 bed & 6booth I I visits $49 ~ I -plus-I 
I 
2 bed & 2 booth 1 
FR££jor a friend I 

·­, 
Associated Press 
RALEIGH, N.C. -A conservative group is raising money for a televi­sion film that would accuse the So­viet Union of a "devilish germ warfare plan," in which a deadly new infectious agent would be created by combining influenza virus with the genes ofpoisonous snakes. 
In a jan. 28 fund-raising letter sent to conservatives nationwide, the Coalition for Freedom said three se­cret Soviet laboratories were 
Observer announces promotions 
The Observer Production De­partment has announced promo­tions for the 1985 Spring Semester. Caroline Belin, a Saint Mary's junior from Clearwater, Pa., has been promoted to assis­tant production manager in charge ofinventory and supplies for the department. 
In addition, john Mennen, a· sophomore from Roseville, Minn., will assume the other as­sistant production manager posi­tion. Mennell is in charge of equipment maintenance and spe­cial projects. 
In January, Saint Mary's junior Anne Long, from Wellington, Kan., and Notre Dame sopho­more Andy Saal, of South Bend, were both promoted design editor positions. 
Assuming design assistant posi­tions are sophomore Alex Peltzer, from Visalia, Calif.; fresh­men Mark McLaughlin, from Mid­dletown, N.J.; and Jane Anne Riedford, ofEvansville, Ind. 
Completing production de­partment staff are newly-hired, special page layout teams. Belin and Saal, with junior Andi Schnuck, from Maumee, Ohio, and freshman Catherine Coffey, from Birmingham, Mich., now hold postions in Vie'WpOint and Accent page layout. 
Beginning this semester, the production department incor­porated the Accent and View­point design stails. 
With more than 40 members, production is the fourth largest department ofThe Observer. 
• ~ ~ # ~~ J ~ ~. ~ ~ # • ~ ••• I ••••• a 

ter said. The group said it needs ~~~;.s:::~ss~&~~~&~~~~~~~~;s:~~~&~~ 
555,000 to start production of the film and S100,000 to buy television  JUNIORS &SENIORS  
time.  spend an afternoon in your  
The letter was signed by Carter Wrenn, director of the Congres­ specific career interest I  
sional Club, but a postscript asked  
that donations be sent to Helms.  Career Orientation Day  


in Indianapolis 
THURSDAY, MARCH 7, 1985



EASY RIDER 
apply at Alumni Association Office 
TO AMD FROM CHICAGO'S CJ'JWU: 
EVERY 2 HOURS EVIllY DAY 
by Friday, February 8 
$12.00 fee for transportation, lunch &dinner 
United Limo 
~ 
sponsored by Alumni Association 
SARG 

----...=-...-_:_­
.• 1: 

A...,
MID-WINTER _ SPECIALS-..·==:.~· 
Dinners Under $6.00 
No Coupons Necessary 
Reg. 
FILET ___________________ s7.95 .. STUFFED FILET_________ s8.95 
::-(wrapped in bacon and stuffed w/mushrooms) 
LAKE PERCH ___________ s7.95 
RAINBOW TROUT_____ s6.95 
B.B.Q. HALF CHICKEN_ ss.75 
~_Each entree includes a bottomless tureen of homemade 
-soup, b.aked bread, and butter, plus your choice of __ Concord & Pierre Moran 
bak('d potato, homt' fries or rice mason. ---· ·. -...: 
--·-.. Malls -Elkhart
· _C!ffN nnt \·,J/id with .-m~ other .td~·erti.~ed t.peciJis or c 

...-----=-b.pire'l f<'hrudry 16, 1965 
. . . . . . .. -..... -......... 
~ ~--­
•••••••• L ••••• • •• a • ~ •• -· •• •. -... , ............... ... 
~:"' 15% Discount
-
not including . sale ttems
NOW 
$5.95 N.D.-S.M.C. $5.95 Students $5.95 
DIRECT DIAMOND IMPORTERS
s5.25_ $5.25-University Park Mall and 

~i~~~_{)__i_ll___t________________Th_u_rs-da-y,_Fe-bru_~_7_,_19-85~-pa-ge-9 

Papal authority: Its role in the lives of Catholics 
Last Friday, Pope John Paul II said that he intellectual inquiry into basic church was summoning a synod of bishops from doctrine is to be eschewed. Thus, the pope around the world next Nov. 25 to Dec. 28 to undermines the traditionally Catholic con­re-examine the findings ofthe Second Vatican cept of"faith seeking understanding." Council. Ostensibly, its purpose will be to deal with the confusion over whether the It seems to me that at the heart of the con­dictates of Vatican II should be strictly ob­flict on these issues is the growing Catholic 
served, or whether the "spirit" ofthe council dissatisfaction with two characteristics of hierarchical decision-making. One ofthese characteristics is that the pope
Vernon Marchal 
and the church hierarchy seem to suffer from what William james once called the afterwords "sentimentalist fallacy." This is the tendency 
to be very outspoken on abstract notions of really called for a more flexible interpretation. love, forgiveness and the like but to be in­However, the more serious and fundamental decisive and unhelpful when these notions problem facing the synod will be what to do manifest themselves in the tough choices that about the large number of Catholics who characterize practical existence. oppose church doctrine and challenge papal The practical existence of many Catholics authority. involves questions regarding birth control, 
To be sure, the widespread dissatisfaction women's rights in the Church, poverty, per­of Catholics with certain doctrines has done secution and even matters of basic church nothing to change the fact that the church is doctrine. The church hierarchy has so far ad­not a democratic institution. As Philosophy dressed these questions by handing down Prufessor Ralph Mcinerny was quoted as confusing edicts that are declared to be saying in a "TIME" magazine article this week, "beyond discussion." By doing this, the 
"The idea that we have moved into a populist hierarchy has alienated itself from many Cat­church, that doctrine should be arrived at by holics who look to it for insight. consensus and dialogue, is wrong." However, Another, and perhaps more important ifthe Church is not characteristically populist, cause of the current dissatisfaction is the na­neither is it a monarchy where the faithful ture of papal authority. Many Catholics submit to the pope's authority. Indeed, on cer­wonder why they should have their faith tain issues, large numbers of Catholics not dictated to them by a man who is subject to only ignore the Church's teachings, they often the same limitations that they are. For exam­come out against them because they find the ple, how is a woman to react when she is told Pope's stance to be inconsistent, arbitrary or by the pope that to be a good Catholic, she even unchristian. should not want to become a priest? My guess 
Examples of these kinds ofissues are many. is that many react by saying, "How would a 
On the issue of contraception, the church man like this know what it takes to be a good hierarchy prohibits the use of artificial meth­Catholic?" ods of birth control on the ground~ that no The whole premise of papal authority as it intention ofcontraception should be a part of now exists implies that to be a good Catholic, sexual intercourse. Inscrutably, this same one must kowtow to church doctrine, even hierarchy endorses the rhythm method of when that doctrine seems absurd or patently contraception. unchristian. In essence it implies that, to be a 
On the issue of the ordination of women, good Catholic, one must cease to be a thinking 
the pope has yet to give a reasonably intelli­being-at least on matters offaith. gent argument for why women are excluded Ifpapal authority is to retain its significance from the priesthood. and, ifthe church is to remain a vital force in 
On the issue of the plight of the poor and the lives of Catholics, then the synod next the persecuted, the pope travels briefly year must begin to address these problems. If through third world nations criticizing eco­it does not, the significance of church nomic and political conditions and then ad­doctrine will continue to decline in the minds monishes the less than perfect efforts ofthose ofCatholics. clergymen and women who have to deal with these conditions on a daily basis. Vernon Marchal is a senior in the Program 
On the issue of theology and biblical inter­ofLiberal Studies atNotre Dame and is a reg­pretation, the pope says that honest and free ular Viewpoint columnist. 
Bishop McManus urges response from students 
Dear Students: 
Though I am on the verge of becoming a retired, former bishop of Fort Wayne-South Bend, I will continue to have a voice, but no vote, in deliberations at the bishops' confer­. ence. This comingJune I will be in a position 
Bishop William McManus Fort Wayne-South Bend 
guest column 
to speak out on the highly controversial paS­toral letter on the condition of the U.S. eco­nomy. All sorts ofexperts will be advising me. Because they are experts, they will come on strong for their particular positons which, even in economics, may be rather partisan. 
I would like to know what Notre Dame and St. Mary's students think about the U.S. eco­nomy. Ifyou speak up, I will listen attentively. While I would like to have all of you read the full text ofthe pastoral letter, I am not so naive or so optimistic to have confidence that you will have the time to plow through it, and it can be slow going because of its ponderous prose. I will be satisfied for now ifsome ofyou would give me your candid opinions on a few crucial issues which are as follows: 
First, do you think the bishops are "out of place," "over their depth" or messing around with business matters best left to business professionals" when they presume to lay 
down moral principles and apply them specif­
ically to economic matters; or, do you think 
the Church will not be taken seriously unless 
its leaders carry the gospel ofjesus Christ into 
the marketplace? 
Second, do you think economic decisions, 
often made at corporate headquarters, should 
be based on what they will do to people and 
for people (the bishops' position) or should 
they be governed by economic "laws," like 
supply and demand, profitability and risk? 
Third, do you agree or disagree with a pro­
posal for the federal government to create 
300,000 jobs for unemployed young people 
( 18 to 25 ), in something like the Civilian Con­
servation Corps of Roosevelt's time, even 
though this may mean an increase in federal 
taxes? 
Finally, do you believe that some poverty 
and unemployment, as high as six percent, are 
inevitable in a free enterprise economy? 
These questions are "leaders" to what your interest is in the moral dimensions of eco­nomic decision. I will be pleased to have your views on any aspect of the U.S. economy, not excluding investments in military hardware and our nation's responsibilities to human beings in the Third World. 
I would like to have your views before Feb. 1 5 because I will soon be getting to work on my amendments to the first draft of the bis­hops' pastoral letter. My address is: Box 390, Fort Wayne, Indiana 46801. 
P.O.BoxQ 
A vice is not a total necessity 
Dear Editor: 
As I write this response to Father Robert Griffin's "inward confession," I sit in a class­less joint, with my eyes burning from the smoke of obnoxious nearby inconsiderates. They presume to pollute my air (yes, my air) and make my food taste like an ash tray, all for the sake of a filthy nicotine addiction. As my contact lenses dry up from the acrid ambience caused by these self-centered individuals, I feel the urge to plead with them. 
"Excuse me, but would you mind not smoking? It irritates my eyes." 
"Yes, I would mind," a gruff voice replies, 
accompanied by a sneer and a reproachful 
look. 
Well, Father Griffin, I congratulate you on writing one of the most hypocritical articles I have ever witnessed betwixt these pages. I am deeply sorry that I fall into the category of "obnoxious stranger." Should my personal comfort be sacrificed at the expense ofa filthy few? If one cannot control himself in public, does it not follow that he should not go out in public? Knowing that smokers exist has no ill effect on me. Of course, when they puff their 
pollution in the proximity of my person, that is a different story. I maintain the right to breathe God's air asHe gave it to me, not as the Marlboro Man did. 
And so, Father Griffin, I offer my con­dolences for your unfortunate obsession. Priests who smoke are an amusing enigma to me, knowing that they are only "wholly" human when they carry a crucifix in one hand and a carton in the other. I also am sorry that 
you need a controlling vice (in accordance with canon law, ofcourse). Personally, I don't. Peter C. Grenier Notre Dame student 
Is interhall hockey a stage for immaturity? 
DearEditor: 
I am an interhall hockey player for Keenan Hall. We played the combined team of Howard-Cavanaugh last Monday. Keenan only had six players, and we had no realistic chance of winning. We were just out to have fun and play hockey. It turned out that our opponent's philosophy was quite the contrary. 
An H-C player jabbed his stick in ou• goalie's chest for no apparent reason, and an­other player ran over our goalie with his fists out in front of him. Neil, our goalie, was defenseless at the time -on his knees, covering a puck. I proceeded to knock the player off Neil. I was given a single minor penalty and the H-C player a double minor, though he should have been ejected from the game. 
The H-C team also received several other unnecessary roughing penalties during the game, most of which were committed after they had a 6-0 lead. 
I do not mean to scorn every player on the team but, rather, those individual players who displayed their immaturity. 
Congratulations on a fine victory! 
Mike Clark Keenan Hall 

Editorial Board  Department Managers  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  (219) 239-5303  Ed1tor·in·Chief . ......... Bob Vonderheide  Business Manager........... Dave Taiclet  
Managing Editor ......... Mark Worscheh  Controller ..............Dave Stephen itch  
The Observer is the independtmt newspaper published by the students of the  News Editor ............. Sarah Hamilton  Advertising Manager ....... Anne Culligan  
University of Notre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily  News Editor ............ Dan McCullough  Circulation Manager . ......... Jeff O'Neill  
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as  Samt Mary"s Editor ..... Anne Monastyrski  Systems Manager . ....... Mark 8. Johnson  
accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the op1nion  Sports Edttor.  . ... Michael Sullivan  Production Manager. ........ Chris Bowler  
of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column  Viewpoint Editor . .  . .... Dave Grote  Pro;ect Manager ........... Amy Stephan  
present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the  Features Editor .  . .... Mary Healy  
community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters.  Photo Edttor. . . . . . .  . . Pete Laches  Founded November 3, 1966  
is encouraged.  

Accent 

Where East collides with West 
''/ Sorry, no remedy for this headache 
claiming that Aziz has attempted to  Hollywood fare. Sex is a major  
Fred Zimmerman Movie review  rape her. Aziz is of course arrested, and his trial becomes a symbol of British opression of India. Hundreds of Indians demonstrate against the regime and attest to Aziz's in­ component ofthe artistic elan, but to the credit ofboth E. M.l-orster, author of the original "Passage," and David Lean, director of the film, it is never allowed to _become an ex­ 
Many a student with his ear to the ground has heard the maxim floating about that, "East is  In a characteristic excess of generosity, Aziz offers to take the ladies on an expedition to the  nocence. The trial is the denournent ofthe film, and in addition to settling the question of the rape, it enables both Aziz and Adela to return fully to  plicit part ofthe action. When Adela is just about to go to sleep on her first night in Chandrapore, for ex­ample, Ronnie gently knocks on her door. The barest hint ofa smile on  
East and West is West, and ne'er the twain shall meet." It is, though, the bald sort ofstatement that one expects to hear only in the West. In the East, most anything can happen, and in "Passage to India," East not  famed, but mysterious Marabar Caves. To his dismay, they accept. The Marabar caves are character­ized by nothing except darkness and an almost supernatural echo. As the group hears their smallest  their respective cultures. Aziz, through his victimization at the hands ofthe British comes to realize that he is, after all, Indian, and can no longer put on British airs. Adela, for her part, recognizes  Adela's face, together with her veiled disappointment when Ronnie merely says, "Goodnight" from without, say far more about desire than the impassioned bed scenes oflesser directors.  
only meets, but collides with West. The film tells the story ofAdela Quested (played byJudy Davis), a naive young woman who journeys to India to meet her fiance, Ronnie Heaslop (Nigel Havers ), who is the City Magistrate of Chandrapore. But impetuous Adela is not content to sit about the British club in Chandrapore; she wants to find the  sound magnified and repeated, Mrs. Moore is overcome with alarm, and is forced to quit the party. Mrs. Moore tells the two to proceed  that she must be content to under­stand the real Britain, and then­ceforth, leaves India to the Indians. Despite its three-hour length, the  Both Victor Banerjee as Dr. Aziz, and Peggy Ashcroft as Mrs. Moore interpreted their roles with a refreshing degree ofsubtlety. Banerjee's portrayal was just slightly overdrawn · a poetic license which fits perfectly the character of the eager Aziz. Ashcroft, by con­trast, was muted and serene -again a perfect fit to Mrs. Moore. Only  
"real India." Ronnie, with the characteristic· ally British air of spurious control amid unperceived chaos, promises that he "can produce any kind you like--Hindus, Moslems, Sikhs, even Parsi." The result is a diastrous  Nigel Havers gave a somewhat disappointing performance, as City Magistrate Ronnie, who, in his navy blue three-piece suit, looked and acted rather like an accounting major on his first job interview.  
garden party in which a handful of  Although Lean does an excellent  
English elite sit perched beneath  job with some very powerful  
parasols, from which occasional and  images, the intellectual develop­ 
quite akward forrays are made  •  ment of the film is hampered by the  
among the scores of Indians milling  absence of one of its main charac­ 
about on the lawn.  ters, the Indian culture. "Passage to  
Following the failed party, Adela  India" is about the conflict between  
turns increasingly toward her es­ East and West. But although Lean  
cort, Mrs. Moore (Peggy Ashcroft),  aptly symbolizes this conflict in the  
who becomes her constant corn·  bizarre and striking Indian  
panion and spiritual guide. Al­ landscape, the East is never ex­ 
'j I  though Mrs. Moore has only just arrived in India, she sublimely  plicitly presented. 'The eastern... philosophy, and therefore the  
~~­ knows every nuance of its complex  raison d'etre of the film will be lost  
~~­ culture.  on an American audience unaware  
'I'/ d,«· ~/ j(( '( ' '/{j( i(('  Adela and Mrs. Moore meet Dr. Aziz (Victor Banerjee), an eager Indian doctor who energetically directs the English ladies around his country. Just as Adela, an English­woman, seeks the real India, Dr. · Aziz, an Indian, seeks a way into the enclave of British India. It would seem a perfect fit. This happy coin­ Judy Davis in her starrin alone, exhorting them to go enjoy themselves. But in the next cave it  g role as Adela Quested. film moves quickly. With the excep­tion ofthe rather slow courtroom  of the Hindu religion, and the film becomes little more than a travelogue with a plot. This is not to disparage the film, for although the message will fail for most, there is still plenty of meaning. "Passage to India" is, on the whole, an exciting film and an  
,/., /~(rt'(~(  cidence ofstriving, however, brings down their respective worlds upon them and penultimately drives them visciously apart.  is Adela who is overcome, and she runs from the cave in a blind panic. When later she recovers some­what, she explains her fright by  scene, there is always something going on, although the events are more subtle and more artistically presented than those of the typic~!  interesting story. Its failure to fully present the Indian view may indeed make the film all the more popular West, after all, is still West.  

·J(
(l 
{
I. r 
I~
u: to satisfy his drug craving. What he also craves from these hospitals,
·.~ Beth Whelpley 
though, is the core ofbasic human
'.( 
existence; mutual kindness and 
·: ( 
caring.
~'( Book review 
Good character development is
':~ 
not enough to save a plot though. At
d 
"NIGHTBLOOM is death .. Lieberman, who also wrote "City the risk of revealing the murderer,
i( 
.NIGHTBLOOM is obsession of the Dead," has selected over­let me just say that an inconsequen­
'f( 
... NIGHTBLOOM is terror...... " weight, middle-aged detective tial, flat figure is introduced in the 
-from the back cover of Frank Mooney as the hero of his last quarter of the novel, and this i { NIGHTBLOOM, by Herbert Lieber­tale. Everyone seems to be against person is significant to the entire man 
i{,,l( 
'( Mooney in his chase to find the novel. Loose ends are barely strung 
NIGHTBLOOM is a big headache killer; the D.A., the commisioner, together in the end, making for aI'J. . .. literally speaking. It involves a and the public. However, Mooney is vague picture ofwhat actually(l maniac psycho-killer who drops the tough, hard-nosed type who happens. Considering the length of ,I forty pound cinder blocks from beats the organization to nail this the novel and its unsubstantial 
~~.r 
rooftops onto crowded Manhattan madman. Sound a bit familiar? The ending, I felt as if I had just finished sidewalks. novel does progress though, and Thanksgiving dinner. Yet, I was still :/1/1 Indeed, headaches abound as Mooney surpasses the cliche to so hungry that my vision was begin­
I 
;( author Herbert Lieberman gives us become a real, likeable character. ning to blur. Actually, by the end of vivid descriptions ofvarious Mooney's relationship with his this four hundred and thirty-eight
.I 
.( smashed heads on the pavement. girlfriend, Fritzi, adds to his dimen­page paperback, it was blurred. '/ i But even ifyou enjoy that sort of sion, revealing a sensitive nature. sick, brain-oozing action, you will Charles Watford is also 
~/ There is talk of making still be disappointed. Our psycho developed well by Lieberman. A "Nightbloom" into a movie, but I strikes only once a year. The action pathological liar and borderline 
am keeping my fingers crossed that tends to sag in between these an­
psychotic, he is a suspect for the it is just that -talk. After this novel,
I( _I 
i:: 
nual murders so much so that I killings. Watford is addicted to the only way anyone would ever
df 
discovered the hidden sadist in me, dernerol, and has the habit of inflict­catch me in line for a ticket is ifit il! as I looked forward to the psycho's ing injury upon himself to gain starred Mel Gibson or some-
I I 
•i; 'I, next human pancake. admittance into hospitals in order body..... maybe. 
'( 
'L
' 
.I·' I 
.. 
.. ( 

Victor Banerjee, who plays 


....------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, February 7, 1985-page 10-11 


Hair today, gone tomorrow 
~ 


1
1he root of the problem is just that. 
A few roots declare war on 
your scalp, break off all contact 
and get stranded somewhere. It 
is not a happy scenerio for you 
or your hair. 
While it is not the most pleas­
ant situation to see more ofyour 
scalp peeping through each 
morning, it is not uncommon. By 
age 25, one-fourth of all men 
show some sign of baldness. The 
whole process starts with a v­
shaped hairline at the temples 
and a hairless spot on the top of the head. After a time, the two areas fuse and the victim has something in common with Don Rickles. 
Students do not realize how widespread this frightening situation is. It is not a condition that plagues only those beyond the age of 30. "My hairline was receding before I was born I think," claims a senior electrical engineering major who said, with little pride, that he was the fist person in his high school class to start losing his head of hair. 
The possibility oflosing hair makes it something people want to keep -preferably on their heads. Aware of this common fear ofhairloss, marketers have developed a complete list of restoration and preservation remedies. 
The first and easiest are the over-the-counter remedies. Unfortunately, according to a recent article in the New York Times, the Food and Drug Ad­ministration is considering a ban on all advertised non­prescription baldness cures 
because they simply don't work. 
The treatments are useless and 
harmless-except to the pocket 
book.
r:Jr. Aziz, is escorted by two guards as he is accused ofrape. 
John Mennell 
features staff. writer 
The second step would be to go to the doctor. There are many causes for temporary loss ofhair including such things as fever and exposure to radiation. Prescription drugs are available to stop or slow the rate ofhair loss. 
The most drastic, expensive, but effective treatment for hair loss is transplanting. Developed in the late '50s by Dr. Norman Orentriech, the process involves taking small tufts ofhair from places on the scalp where it is still growing and transplanting it to bald areas. This technique requires a great deal oftime because only small amounts can be transplanted in one session. 
If there seems to be less hair 
left each time you use a comb or 
brush, don't worry. You arc not 
alone in the world ofgrowing 
foreheads. Students are con­
cerned about hairloss occuring 
now as well as in the future. 
A sophomore business major who seems sensitive to the bald­ness question declares, ''I'm not bald! I'm just losing my hair." He admits to worrying about bald­ness down the road. 
Women are also aware of balding men. 
"I notice it," admits a Breen Phillips senior who is majoring in sociology. 
Two Farley juniors agree, "It's not that big of a deal." A Lewis Freshman comments, "I just don't care. If a guy is good looking it's not going to matter." 
A Badin sophomore has good news for those who are balding. "Sometimes, it gives them class," she says of a receding hairline. 
"It really doesn't make any dif­ference," the Badinite feels, "It's not a real turn-on or turn-off, it's just neutral." 
Many people realize the im­
portant part that heredity plays 
in determing whether or not 
they will go bald. A junior ac­
counting major says a skin top is 
in his future, "My dad is bald, it's 
inevitable." A spokesman for 
the Food and Drug Administra­
tion, Edward Nida, told the New 
York Times "How you lose or 
keep your hair depends on how 
wisely you choose your par­
ents," he said, "For the most 
part, it is hereditary." 
Other good indicators that 
one might be able to get a good 
tan on the scalp in the future are 
body hair and race. Caucasians 
are more susceptible to baldness 
than orientals, negroids or indi­
ans. Also, a man with a hairy 
body is more likely to bald than 
a relatively hairless man. 
While many students would 
not admit to having a receding 
hairline themselves, they did not 
mind pointing out the lack of 
hair on their roommates' heads. 
One sophomore explained 
that while he had no problem, 
his roommate did, "He plays 
with his hair and as a result has a 
receding hairline." A junior 
revealed that his roommate's 
mother had sent her son some 
shampoo that would supposedly 
prevent hairloss. 
Ifyou think you are immune 
to hairloss now, awareness of 
thinning -or disappearing hajr 
can only increase. By the time 
one has lived for halfa century, 
there is a 50 percent chance that 
baldness will begin to show. 
Just as there's no way to avoid or prevent the aging process, there's no easy way to get around the changes that go along with it. Losing hair has no obvious advantages but it could be viewed as a means ofcutting down on barber bills or conserv­ing on shampoo. Hair is so com­mon among the young. So, dare to be different -don't hide under a baseball cap. Buy some suckers and hold your head high. Rumor has it the Telly Savalas look is in. 
Shakatak, an irresistable jazz attack 
The sole purpose oflyrics in Shakatak's music seems to be to provide something for Saward to sing, and sing she does. Saward has a broad singing style and a fantastic range that allows her to use her voice almost as an instrument. If the song is fast-paced, then she sings out strongly and solidly. In the mellow, slower songs her voice is sensual and hypnotic. 
The album's greatest weakness is that it suffers from an acute case of "ifyou've heard one song, you've heard them all" syndrome. Its saving grace is deemed from the fact that the instrumental arrange­ment is clean and crisp and the songs well-mixed. This is an album that can be listened to while doing something else, such as enjoying a quiet candlelight dinner for two. 
The group is presently a big hit in Europe andJapan where they have been honored by gold albums and top ten singles. It should be a mat­ter of time before they enjoy much of the same in the U.S. 
Correction 
The name of the student resi­dent in Stepan Center was incor­rectly spelled in Tuesday's Observer. The correct spelling is Nick Molchan. 

Bill Highducheck 
Record review 
T
ired oflistening to overplayed 
songs on the radio? Looking for 
some soft-core jazz-funk? Does 
music requiring little attention in 
return for enjoyment and relaxation 
after a day offrustrating classes 
interest you? Ifso, flipping on the 
new album by Shakatak may be just 
the thing you should do. 
Shakatak's sophisticated sound came together in 1979 when Tracks and another Earth, Wind and Fire­style band joined forces figuring that "two funk!> are better than one." The band's name was sugges­ted by someone at a jazz-funk im­port store in London called the Record Shack, hence the name 
Shakatak. Their music is classified as 
a combination ofpop, funk and jazz, without any of these elements overpowering the other. However, the group's current album, their third in the U.S. and fifth overall, leans toward the jazzy side. 
The album opens with "Down on the Street," an excitingly funky song that won't suffer from the airwave exploitation that plagues many groups who have hit it big. The song is danceable with its pulsating, exotic beat. The chorus is very catchy, any listener will be singing it after hearing the song only a few times. IfShakatak hits it big in the U.S., this tunc may well be the rea­son why. 

The second track, "Holding On," slows things down a bit. It contains a strong saxaphone solo. Jill Saward's sensuously solid voice complements the music and doesn't drown it. 1be result is a nearly mesmerizing sound. "Summer Sky" shows off Bill Sharpe's talent at the keyboard. Between Saward's repetition ofthe one four-line verse, Sharpe's piano riff steals the show. 
The song "Watching You" is a good demonstation of the band's versatility. Its tempo moves from one end ofthe jazz-funk spectrum to the other. The song opens slow and mellow with a faint beat in the background. During the choru ... ­faint beat becomes a wild jung beat and the song takes off. 
Lyrically, the album is sparse. It ain't no usepretendin', Three of the songs have lyrics con­Wben a love affair ts endin', sisting offour lines, and the fourth Thatyou can'taccept the partyou is an instrumental. What few lyrics play. there are, are not thought­'Cause when two peoplefall in provoking, but tend to be typical of love, love songs. A good example ofthis Andgo together band in glove, is found in "Don't Blame it on That's the hardest thing to throw Love": away. 

The Observer Thursday, February 7, 1985 -page 12 




Classifieds 
The Obsert•er Notre:: Dam<.: office. ((KatnJ on tht· third floor of LaFortune:: Student Ct:ntc:r. acc<.:pts dassifit:d advertising from l) a.m. until --l p.m., Monday throu~h Friday. Tbe Obsert•er Saint Mary's offin:. locatt·d on the:: third floor of Haggar Collt:gc Ct:ntc::r. a<.Tepts l'lassifkds from 12:)0 p.m. until .-'1 p.m., Mon­day though Friday. Dc:adlint: for next-day classit1eds is -~ p.m. All dassifieds must he prepaid, either in person or hy mail. Charge is I 0 l·ents per t1ve charac­
ters ·r da ·. 

Efticiency apt. private entrance. good Students ol the female persuasion: If she's a hoser. then the monster knows Jenny, Be sure to ask me about this inter­Mendelian Report neighborhood, utilities paid 288-A constricted pea pod isn't as much fun as
Beware' Zahm Hall's Hidden Hearts her!I esting little pamphlet I was reading 0.1
NOTICES 0955/277-3604. a swollen one. Wrinkled ones are likewise 
Danceis coming upon Feb. 9. Be ready to planned parenthood. M. hear from your favorite Zahmbie for the I Wanna Know where Lev is !!! no longer kosher. big costume dance. Erin, how about a little euchre action this 
Pete MurphyAttn: All ND/SMC Students weekend? It will be complete with parallel EXPERT TYPING 277-8534 AFTER 5:30 WANTED LOST DAYTONAII! parking, Fiddle Faddle. mildew, and of I love you! I love you! I love you! I want 
One pair of eyeg...... for $94 ???? course renigs. YOU'RE INVITED TOO to love you' ·Love. your secret sweetheart 
Somewhere In North Quad ••· Call: 239-5136 OR DAVE.
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8917 Cllll W.R.1505 Stop by: 1 .5 LaFortune P.S. Dig that new haircut, baby! COLUMBUS, OHIO 
(Senior Class Office) Thomas Covenant. TYPING AVAILABLE COLUMBUS, OHIO Ancient Chinne Provn uy:
Mon-Fri 6 to 9 PM So you're finally going to fight. That'll287-4082 I need a nde to Columbus this weekend. It is o«ay to wade the Red River 
PERSONAL ARE OK....BUT YOU CAN'T make it very easy to get your stupid ring. can leave anytime after loam Friday, But, don't drink from if ...
PUT PICTURES IN THEM THE We won't even need Zeus. Feb. 8. Call Tracy at 284-5185. Thanks. 
OBSERVER NOW HAS A SPECIAL Why pay more? The Gang TYPING 
RATE FOR BIRTHDAY DISPLAY AD We do it better and we do it cheaper!! 
JACKIE BOGGS 
Rider needed to ROCHESTER, N.Y. WE ACCEPT ANYTHING SHORT OF Come party with ueln DAYTONAI Sharon-O.W.-Happy 21st Birthday II Have 684-8713 area. Leaving Wed. 2/13, returning Sun. a super day! PARTY! Love ya, Chris, Al­
NUDIES CALL 239-5303 FOR DETAILS for Spring Break '85 2/17. Call Ed at 272-0828 $94 5/room. $104 4/room if you drive lison and Marci 
THE ONE RING RULES ALL! Marc Ramirez is a medman. $184 5/room. $194 4/room if we drive 
·························································-······
PRo-TYPE Computerized typing service 
Riders needed to Michigan State the Cal1239-5136 or stop by 1.5 LaFortune Bill, HOLY CROSS 3 DILLON 2 HEY "BIG" 277-5833 weekend of Feb. 8. Cell1235ifinterested. I'll buy Valentine's Day gifts ... not Mon-Fri 6 to 9 PM I RED (HAHA) WHERE WERE YOUR
I Think It would be a good ldll for Open to ALL ND/SMC studenis! FANS? GO HOGS!! 
you to buy Howera for your (female)
EXPERT TYPING 277-8534 AFTER 5:30 1t8ff for valentine~ day.
NEED: Two Brigham Young GA's and DILLON SUX HOGS OF HOLY CROSS
Getin? Getover? Get through? • friend
Typing/Word Processing-Term Papers, 
one student ticket. Cell JACK 2066 Get out! South Bend for Spring Break?? RULE THE RINKS!! business letters, etc. We will edi.. Call 
Wouldn't you rether be In DAYTOHA? 
Andrea Price, 283-3880 Need ride to Columbus on FEB.8 SMC $94 5/rm, $104 4/rm if you drive LOVE THEM HOGS!! 
You may know how to use a foil. But its 5252. The NUKE THE COMMIE RUSKIES club $184 5/rm, $194 4/rm if we drive 
obvious you don't know how STO to use is now forming. For information on how to Call239-5136 or stop by 1.5 LaFortune Naeste uge kommer fastelavnsfesten. 
the phone. You lose big.
NEED RIDERS TO INDIANA U. THIS 
join and keep the world safe for Mon-Fri 6 to 9 PM 
SBPNP DEBATE WEEKEND CALL 1034 democracy call Tom Halpin at 2397. Open to all ND/SMC Students! Congrats on Loyola, Mary -I knew you
I don't play games could do it!!! love ya! Cerol 
Room 2D LaFortune LARRY, You know you like it when you're Parents coming for Jr. Wkd. & have BIG 0 HAPPY BIRTHDAY, LOVE, THE
name's in the paper. So enjoy it while you Thuradlly Fob. 7th 
FOR SALE RACE THOMAN! VOTE RACE FOR nowhere to stay? Room at Marriot for can get it! ME ROCK O.C. SENATOR. resale cheap C811277-8549 Janice. 7-8PM Note: My last look law have recievedI can't hardly stand it anymore!!!!!!!!'!!'
REMEMBER THE KEENAN REVUE WINTER PARK. COLORADO There are some criticism,but we have to realize that MAXELL TAPES! PARTY? THE ONLY DJS THAT MAT­still spaces available for the SAB Spring is would an it was writen for Notre Dame! Now the
This what one call
XLII-90min $25/case of ten. Call1596 or TER! (AUAS PAT MURPHY AND DON Break Ski Trip for $212 (transp. approK. Universal Look Law ...
"impersonaL"124 Dillon SEYMOUR) WILL BE AT CHATAQUA, $90 extra). Please contact us immedi· NEED TYPING. CALL DOLORES 277­THIS FRIDAY FEBRUARY 8 AT 9PM ately: Joe x3296 or Eric at 277-4617. He is an anamoly.He's an XXY;that LAWS OF MR. GOODWENCH THE 6045. PICKUP AND DEUVERY. 
This OREGONIAN may be stuck in DJING A DANCE SPONSORED BY THE WINTER PARK winter park WINTER LOOKS OF A GIRL ARE DIRRECTL Y 
means he's tall and has impaired fer­
dome'sville for spring break but YOU can NOTRE DAME OJ SOCIETY. COME PARK winter park WINTER PARK winter PROPORTIONAL TO WERE SHE
tility.As a cure,Greg "I eat footballs" Din­
RESUMES TYPESET. ARLENE 239-have his plane ticket home (lor March 12) ONE, COME ALL TO THE ONLY DANCE park STUDIES: STATE COLLEGES .... 9 
gens seeks the aid of all females( must be
6348 or 232-9061. cheap. 3528. The name is John. THAT MATIERS! ADMISSION: $1 ·PRIVATE COLLEGES.. 7.5 NOTRE
320 lbs.)on his 21st b-day.Doctors' orders FUN-LOVING WALSH WOMEN need DAME.IN.....6call for saliva exchange and pressureSTART YOUR CAREER NOW DENON DIGITAL STEREO RECIEVER. 
Earn money and work on Who left the SPOMGE-BATH out all ride to NAPERVILLE or surrounding release of the inferior hypogastric
Fortune 500 LIKE NEW, 33 WATIS PER CHANNEL. night? Western Chicago suburb, the weekend of region.Call3488 NOW.
Companies' programs
marketing on MUST SELL. CALL MIKE AT 283-3587. 
Jan.15-16. Will share costs. Please call ...' . . ...... . .. . . 
campus. Part-time (flexible) hours each Riders needed to Michigan State the Cindy at 2598 or Miriam at4174. Monte says "Sure thing Billygoat, but I'd
ATTENT10Nweek. We QIVe references Call 1-8oo­weekend of Feb. 8. Call1235if interested. rather go THROUGH Chi, to Buff. Grove"
OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS SAY IT WITH FLOWERS: Look for the Also. a half a couch each is recom·
VOTE
':":""'9 .......................... I TICKETS 
carnation sales in the South Dining Hall mended!"
JIM HAGAN WVFI WVFI WVFI WVFI WVFI presents for a chance to send a flower to your 
D.C. SENATOR Student Body President Debates -hear Valentine. MINNESOTA CLUB PARTYIII
I WILL WORK FOR: BETTER PARKING the candidates' ideas --Thursday, at 54631 Cempus View Apartment 302
MORE BUS RUNS
LOSTIFOUND I BIG BUCKS need 4SYRACUSE·~·~·d·b~ 
February 7 at 7:00 -Tune in to WVFI! BUZZ CLUB BUZZ CLUB BUZZ CLUB Saturday Night from 6pm-1 Opm IN SUP·
CHEAPER MEAL PLANS -caH Mark x1204 WVFIWVFIWVFIWVFIWVFI CAMPUS VIEW CAMPUS VIEW PORT OF BILL HEALY I DUANE CAMPUS VIEW ... THE LEGACY UVES LAWRENCE NEED 3 TIX FOR SYRACUSE GAME. 
MARDI GRAS ON.
LOST: GREEN SWEATER IN CUSHING, BRUCE TURNER 
CALL239-7204 OR 233-3412. 
MARDI GRASROOM 208 IF FOUND. CALL JOHN AT MARDI GRAS Wanted DEAD or ALIVE: LEUA BURKE DON'T MISS
2196 NO QUESTIONS ASKED In the beginning it was Margaret..thenHELP! Need Syracuse tix -G.A. or stu­MARDI GRAS For roommate abuse. Has been known to WVFI'S first live transatlantic broadcast 
carne Kathy...we wonder what poor inno­dent. Call1570. MARDI GRAS terrorize her roommate Jayne. Call 284-to London. England 
LOST Black trench coat at Colby's on cent young thing it wiH be this year...two 4295 if seen. Help save a life. tonight from 11-1 
Jan. 14. It had all of my I.O.sin it so please days...2 DAYS' 
Need two Syracuse tickets. Ce:l Dan at call JT,JA,UB,J,CB,Biff and the rest return as soon u possible. Reward of­2275 Talent Contest and Airband Contest KAMPUS KRUSADE for KIRIL THREN­to dedicate songs to your favorite London 
fered. Call Kay at 2903 or 2939. BRUCE TURNER 
$100 First Prize DOR program friends Amy Falkosky wiU do ANYTHING for 2 or Saturday 8 P.M. South Dining Hall WVFI 640 AM 239 6400LOST: a gold Citizen watch on Sunday more GA's for Syracuse. Call284-5529 Come ch-on your favorites, YOUJan. 27, somewhere between Zahm and 
decide the winners Give 'em an Inch,
the North Dining Hall. If found, please call To D.A.N. and "Ronny" the Ace of Stan­
WANTED: 1 GA OR STUD TICKET FOR $1.50 al the door lnd they"H part In It! W.R. 'shaggy' MACK is 21 today.Tom at 1244 ford: And we thought you were such nice
THE SYRACUSE GAME. BIG BUCKS!!!!! 
Welcome him tonight at Five Points.
boys ... where in Oregon did they teachCALL CHESTER AT 2343 OR 2347. 
Foreign Beers only.
Loat: A beige wool hat with brown stripes. you to go through a girl's underwear
Win a trip to the Real MARDI GRAS FASTELAVNSFEST
Loat sometime Saturday night. If found. drawer and stictl the findings in the
need2Syracusetix-eaUSteph-3738 Free raffle ticket with admission to the FASTELAVNSFEST FAS-
please call Eric at 283-4352. refridgerator? Next time the beers are on
Dance-A-Thon TELAVNSFEST ....... . ..
you! -Your Toga Partners ("Ronny," youNeed SYRACUSE Tix? I GOT 'EM!(6) 
This Friday at Stepan Center !"' OPPORTUNITY !"' PUBLICITY CO­
LOST: one pair of black leather gloves on didn't need the underwear, John did.)
Call FRANKIE anytime at 239-5627. 
6P.M. to6A.M. VALENTINE COOKIES! ON SALE IN CHAIRPERSONS FOR THE UPCOM­
1/30 somewhere around the art building C.C.C&A.J.
PARTY ALL NIGHT LONG THE DINING HALLS THROUGH SUN­ING, CAMPUS-WIOE EVENT NOTRE or Lafotune. If found please call Mike at NEED 1 STUD OR GA FOR SYRACUSE DAY. ONLY $1--TO BENEFIT THE MS DAME-ST. MARY'S CHARITY BALL: A277-3828. 
CALL JOANNE 2800 
FUND DRIVE FAMILY RESPONSE TO THE CRISIS IN There once was a girl named Molly When ETHIOPIA ARE LOOKING FOR INTER­LOST PACKET OF STUDENT 88 TICK­NEED 1 Syracusetix, stu or GA. Call 1710 Come see one of Columbus' best bends: we met her we said "Oh golly!" She looks ESTED FELLOW STUDENTS EAGER
ETS. SECTION 103 REWARD CALL The Danger Brothers 
~ke such fun Call 1241 To wish her a TO LEND A HELPING HAND! IF YOULEIGHANN SMC 4451 Performing at the Mardi Gras Dance-A­
TO: The 6'6",2501b,3.7 GPA,Morrisey birthday that's jolly! HAVE ANY TIME, TALENT OR IDEAS Than from 9 P.M.-1 A.M.
BIG BUCKS for 1 STU. or GA resident who happens to be MY brother. .......................................... . TO DONATE, OR ANYTHING ELSE(!')
LOST-One blue left hand glove, loat at SYRACUSE ticket. Call Mark 232-5645 FROM: Partyboy MESSAGE: The Claw oooh Phil ...oooooh Phil ...ooooooooh CONTACT LINDA AT 277-6856 ORthe ACC on Jan. 20. If found please call says to heel and to get a grip on reality so Phii ... NOW!! KISS ME!!!! .... Yeah, I really LESLIE AT 287-1505 (AFTER 4:00). 
Mark at 2450. I Need a RIDE to Miami U. (OXFORD
Need $$ --Sell MAROUETIE tix. CaU you can enjoy your 21st to the extent of did too. 
Ohio) very badly THIS WEEKEND, Feb.
Pete. 1605 not enjoying it and being forced to see if -········
LOST: N.D. RUGBY LETIER JACKET IS 9th. Will rent a car if necessary. Don't your a-ash helmet will serve its purpose. OFF CAMPUS FORMAL!!!!! Friday night 
STILL AT LARGE. REWARD FOR ANY delay, call today. JESSE 2085 ..... .. . ...........................
at the Americana Tickets available at Stu­INFORMATION LEADING TO THE AR­SUE ~fll"'A TO tr.e ~·-Jeen of the South To Mark --Cindy's date who wasn't -­dent R3Cord Store BE THERE!!!!!!
REST AND CONVICTION OF ITS CAP­Quad, is 20 today' Let her know you're
Thanks for helping out with our practical
PERSONALS ]
TORS. PLEASE CALL J.R. REID AT THE EGO ROLL EXPRESS one of her subjects. Happy B1rthday!
joke! Sorry you couldn't come tubing, it JAY THE LAW STUDENT277-7561 IF YOU HAVE ANY KNOWL­•.ave. The Keenan Quad. 
was fun! Julie, Elizabeth, and Cindy See, I remembered your name! SorryEDGE OF ITS WHEREABOUTS. "Homemade Egg Rolls" our dance ended so soon. WiH you be at 
COLUMBUS, OHIO OPEN Weekends NEED···RioiiRs.. ;:c>·ILLiNOis···s-rA-rii 
To Joe-my date who was-isn't it great SA BAR soon? Mary 
YO ADRIAN ! OR ANYONE ELSE WHO COLUMBUS, OHIO Friday-----11-2am UNIVERSITY thl1 .-~lend. Will ahare
to be able to feel your toes again? I hope 
LOST A SCARF AT THE FRI. NITE IF YOU'RE GOING THERE THIS Saturday----11-2am «*' rental expenses. U.ve Friday 6:45
you don't give cereal flakes to all the girls It's LOUISE FOLEYS birthday' Since
SHOWING OF "ROCKY". CALL MIKE WEEKEND I WANT TO GO TOO!! I CAN Sunday-----9-12am p.m. Return Sunday 4:00 p.m. CALL
(or is that just for brunettes?) I don't plan she's the only woman at SMC with 3 beds 
X2384 TO CLAIM. GO FOR IT !! LEAVE FIDAY AT 10AM. PLEASE GET Located Lewis Hall Basement JOHN AT 4013.
on changing my hair color soon. but I'll to herself call her to help celebrate her ME OUT OF HERE. CALL TRACY AT lend you my socks anytime Cindy P.S. birthday and use up some of that extraFOUND EARRINGS at KEENAN REVUE 284-8185 Bundle up-it's a cold world out there! space. Call 284-5528 
PARTY IN KEENAN SATURDAY NIGHT SEE CHILE FREE If they're yours. contact Father Dave in OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR, SUNDAY 
To Dan-Thanks for going tubing. I had a Lynn,
AM 120 Keenan. CARRY OUT 'T1L 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., 7-8:30pm Is your idea of fun wading through 3 feet 
super time. Stop by sometime-I promise Congratulations! We are all behind you. 
ONE BLOCKSOUTH OF HOUDAYINN. Center for Sor.ial Concerns drifts of snow in sub-zero weather? Well, 
-won't serve you chips on the floor We love you! The Girls 
LOST: DARK WOOL BLUE BERET, then you should stay at NO. If not, go toFT
again. Elizabeth 
Spanish inscription. Have pity-was my LAUDERDALE OR DAYTONA BEACH 
........ ' ..... '·····'........ '······················........... WILL ''I'll try anything onca" from SR BAR
Grandfather's. Anna 277-4745. TICKETS: Need TWO tickets for the CHILEyCHILEyCHILE with the STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD'
To Mike -40 does it! Sorry tubing's not -bethere!
Syracuse game. I need these FREE For SUN & FUN, DAY BOAT EXCUR­
skiing, but then -·re not Marathon Men. 
Loat: Organization Theory and Design by desperately!!! My girlfriend is corning up and SIONS & BASEBALL, ST PAT'S DAY
are we? Thank goodness! Julie Laura
Richerd Daft at South Dining Hal Monday and will kill me (not to mention things she IN COLOR PARTIES & POOL SIDE CELEBRA­at lunch. PIMM call Mike at 1166. WON'T do ) i1 I don't get these tickets. SUNDAY TIONS, QUALITY & PRICE, go with SAB. 
FOR SALE: A ROUND TRIP TICKET CASE DAY MANIACS GOOD LUCK!
Please help out a fellow Domer who 7-8:30pm Informational meetings on Thursday,
ANYWHERE PIEDMONT FLIES GOOD YOU'RE ALL GREAT! LUV YA....T
LOST: A pair of black Aria women's size hasn't seen his beautiful girlfriend in a Center for Social Concerns Feb. 7 and Thursday, Feb 14 at 7pm in the
TILL 12-10-85 MIKE 3542 
smaH gloves in rm. 208 O'Shag. I know long, LONG time!! Call Dan at 2275 today! Little Theater at the La Fortune. 
BFW: I'M STILL WRAPPED AROUNDsomebody has them. If found, please call JULIE BAER. Sorry about that personal YOUR FINGER!! HANG IN THERE-I'LL Stephanie at 3738. or return them to 244 CHILE last week. The real ratio for you know who GET NORMAL SOON(Is that what youSedin. Thanks. SENIOR SKI TRIP TO SUGAR LOAF is one to one, not four to one. Besides. it's want, though?) I LOVE YOU TONS!!' A 
MOUNTAIN!! SPOTS STILL AVAILABLE CHILE CINDY: I met you last week on 2nd ] the 
none of my business. SQUEEZABLE SMUAF
LOST: 6 keys on a plain round keychain; MARCH 1 .2,3 $25.00 DEPOSIT SENIOR Brer. You have my name and BUT I don't one dorm key, one mail key. one house CLASS OFFICE-1.5 LAFORTUNE CHILE have yours! PLEASE get in touch with me, 
Coni--Happy anniversary. Hope you two
key, one bike key and two car keys. Mark MON-FRI 6-9 . I'm going CRAZY II!! JIM ]1887
enjoy many more happy times together.
at 1728. SUNDAY DEAR HEARTBREAKER AT SMC. PUT
Two years is a long time.
BEST TIME-BEST VALUE: WHERE: 7-8:30 ANOTHER NOTCH IN YOUR LIPSTICK MOST HOLY ST. JUDE AND PATRON LOST: pair of black gloves on Sunday DAYTONA BEACH'! WHEN: SPRING Center for Social Concerns CASE AND FIND ANOTHER FOOL. SAINT OF LOST CAUSES THANK YOU 
MICH-No more peanut butter? 
evening in Rock. They are gifts from BREAK '85. WHO: ALL ND/SMC STU­TAKE CARE OF ERWIN AND GOOD FOR SO MUCH HELP AND INTERCES­somebody very dear. Please call 1167 or DENTS. CALL 239-5136 OR STOP BY LUCK THIS SEMESTER. -ANOTHER SION.WM
Melissa--Who has warped your mind?
live them in Rock SENIOR CLASS OFFICE, 1.5 FORGET FLORIDA!! SKI ASPEN, USED DOMER 
Pretty soon the whole section will be
LAFORTUNE. MON-FRI, 6-9pm. COLORADO THIS SPRING BREAK, MORRISSEY, LYONS. DILLON.
talking the way -do!
LOST:MEN'S NO CLASS RING. KMS IN­AND GET A TAN TOO. $3971NCLUDES To the THIEF who STOLE my Ftnance HOWARD. PANGBORN. BADIN. FIS­SCRIBED ON INSIDE. IF FOUND TRANSPORTATION, 7 NIGHTS 231 book from South D.H. at lunch last HER JOHN GINTY for STUDENT SEN­
ll'ownle,
PLEASE CALL 3204. REWARD. OH, VALENTINE! LODGING, AND A I DAY LIFT PASS TO Friday-you just broke one of the Ten Com­ATE PUTIING THE SOUTH QUAD
If you ever want to see Bennett alive
ALL FOUR OF ASPEN'S MOUNTAINS. mandments.My name's in it. Please return FIRST vote Tuesday 
again, you must deposit three-thO'Jsand
a.t the ruah .... come up to The IF INTERESTED CALL 3630 OR 3573. it.
dollars in the top dra-of each ol your
ObMrvw and place your Valentine'• ....................................................... CARA
roomates· dressers (small bills please).
Oily per'80NI thll week. We've Ml HAPPY 21at BIRTHDAY W.R. Buda, get your ugly mug out of the GOOD LUCK ON YOUR NURSING
FOR RENT This transaction should be completed by 
aelde a apecllll category Juatfor you to W.A. will be ecceptlng birthday kl.._ observer and keep it out-Tim. TEST FRIDAY. WE KNOW YOU CAN
rTIIdnight Fnday ... or Bennett wiH die. NO
get ,..., gooey with your heertthrob. all day In 332 cavanaugh, and If you ...................................................... . ACE IT!! AFTER THE TEST IT'S TIME
POLICE! Signed, your favorite
The apeclel dlly II Thuradlly, Feb. 14, Clln't atop by M eure to call him at Hey you, yes you, bean man, watch out FOR A RELAXING WEEKEND AT
threesome.
Two students to share apt. stove and bUt8Void longlinNand comeIn today. 1505. because some day, when you least ex­HOME. refrigerator, good netghbor hood 288-pect it, when you least want it.. bla LOVE, THE GANG 09551277-3604. h'lgood to be the Klnglll haahaahaaah!l!! 
The Observer Thursday, February 7, 1985 -page 13 
Price 
continuedfrom page 20 
that's the only thing you can do ­drill until it becomes habit, and he's done that well." 
With improved skills has come the confidence that Price lacked in his first two years with the Irish. 
"I've had a problem with my con­fidence ever since I've been here," Price says. "In the last few games, I've gained a lot ofconfidence. Right now, I'm just trying to keep my con­fidence up." 
And although the time on the bench was hard on him, Price feels he found out a great deal while spending time watching the team play. 
"I often thought about how I could contribute to the team in the best possible way," he says, "and I had a lot oftime to think while I was on the bench. 
I 
Please support the AMERICAN 
WCANCER
fSOCIElY® 
"I really analyzed the games and I said to myself, 'We really need a little enthusiasm, and we need some spurts when the fellows are down.' So I want to keep the fellows fired up. I try to have control of the game in my own special way. I just want to play with confidence and keep the fellows fired up." 
'I think he's just starting to find himself as a JUnior. He's starting to get more confidence, and with 11 games left, he's got to be o plus for us to be successful.' 
--Digger Phelps. 
As for the future, Price just wants to continue playing well, hopefully helping the team on to greater heights. 
"I just want to continue to play as hard as I can," he says, "and continue to help out the team in the best way I can. I want to improve as a player, so I want to improve things like my free-throw percentage and field goal 
percentage. I just hope we keep win­ning and make it to the NCAA tourn­ament." 
Phelps realizes that Price will be an important player as the Irish en­ter the final 1 1 games of their schedule. 
"Joseph is playing his role right 
now and just contributing where he 
can," says Phelps. "I think he's an ex­
cellent shooter, and when he's hot 
we just want to get him the balL 
"He's also been able to do some things defensively against bigger people. He did a really good job against Miguel of UClA. He can guard a big guard or a small forward. And he's also a very good zone player, and so from that standpoint he can contribute. 
"I think he's just starting to find himself as a junior. He's starting to get more confidence, and with 1 1 games left, he's got to be a plus for us to be successful." 
And after helping the Irish to vic­tory last night over LaSalle with six points on 3-6 shooting, Price looks forward to this weekend's matchup with Syracuse. 
"The Syracuse game is going to be a really exciting game," he says. "The game could be another step as far as possibly being ranked and get­ting into the NCAA's. I think ifwe do the things we have to do, then we can upset them. I'm just really looking forward to it." 
And Irish fans are looking forward to continued good play from Price. 

TEST YOURSELF 
At Northrop Aircraft Division On Ca1npus InterviClvs Fn'day, February 22th 
When your exams are over, the challenges just begin. 
At Northrop Aircraft Division. recent Notre Dame graduates are work­ing on some of the most sophisticated projects in the world. From aero­sciences to flight control technology; from structures technology to manufacturing engineering and technology. among others. 
You can be a part of our team of highly trained professionals. 
If your field of study is engineering (EE or AE preferred); or computer sc1ence. arrange a Northrop interview through your career placement office. 
Northrop Aircraft Division representatives will be on your campus to meet with students ready for the challenges that face them after finals are over. · 
Proof of U.S. Citizenship Required. Northrop is an Equal Oppor­tunity Employer M/F/HIV. 
We're within your reach. 


NORTHROP 
Aircraft Division Aircraft Group 

Skiing 
continuedfrom page 20 
timing ot the snowfall has been tre­mendous. It snowed nine inches the day everybody came back, so people were able to go out as soon as registration day. Finally, the interest has grown because the phys. ed. d~­partment has been offering classes m cross-country skiing. This is the fourth year they've done it, so every class here has had the chance to take them." 
"A Day at the Races" is the result of the popularity. The day will start at noon with an obstacle course that will feature head-to-head competi­tion. At approximately 12:45, there will be a two-mile individual race around the perimeter of the golf course. There will be both men's and women's divisions, a.."' well as a staggered start with skiers entering the course every 30 seconds. Finally, at about 1:30, there will be a sprint relay in which teams oftwo will race aginst the clock. 
For those who need equipment, skis will be made available, free of charge. Those who need equipment can reserve it when they register. The NVA will also provide hot choc­olate and prizes. 
Saturday's races are not the. only skiing events that the NYA is spon­soring this weekend, either. Tomor­row night there will be a "moonliter" for those who would like to experience night skiing. For 
$1, skiers can rent a pair ofskis from 7 to 10 p.m. There will also be free hot chocolate. 
Focus 
on 
Alnerlca's 
Future 

The Observer Thursday, February 7, 1985-page 14 

l 
! 
NOTRE DAME AVE. APTS. 
~ 
' ROOMMATES NEEDED! 
Boys and Girls
• 
l 
Call office 3-6 DAILY 
' i l l • • •234-6647 
' l 
\ . i 

\ •••••••••••••••••••••••• 
~ 
' ' 
YOURBSN
• ­
COULD BE JUST THE
The Obs-=rvt"r/Cbalunya Panchal 
SandyBotbam(52),MaryGavin(10), and Trena 11-7 Irish will take on Xavier University Saturday 
BECINNINC OF
Keys ( 13) are three oftbe top players on the Notre at noon in tbeACC. Team stats are below. Dame women's basketball team this season. The 
YOUR EDUCAnON. 
Look into it, and you'll discover that one of the ND Women's Basketball Statistics 
most important parts of Army Nursing is its dedication to continuing education. Army Nurses 
GIGS MIN/AVG FGIFGA PCT FT/FTA PCT REB/AVG PF/FO A PTS AVG 
are encouraged to attend professional conferences
Keys 18/18 562/31.2 136/271 .502 38/48 .792 107/5.9 47/3 48. 310 17.2 
pursue advanced degrees and study a variety of
Bates 16/14 418/26.1 88/161 .547 24/44 .545 78/4.9 17/0 4 200 12.5 Schueth 17/10 345/21.6 49/108 .454 39/56 .696 105/6.13 39/2 7 137 8.6 
nursing specialties. 
Botham 18/12 317/17.6 57/114 .500 23/30 .767 72/4.0 50/1 7 137 7.6 
If you're a student working on .your BSN or if 

Dougherty 16/9 338/19.8 52/106 .491 27/31 .871 20/1.3 33/2 49 131 7.7 
you already have a BSN and are registered to
Ebben 17/4 219/12.9 25/57 .439 9/12 .750 31/1.8 24/1 14 59 3.5 Brommeland 11/0 113/10.3 21/42 .500 9/12 .750 29/2.6 12/0 1 51 4.6 
practice in the United States or Puerto Rico, check 
Gavin 13/1 420/26.3 18/49 .367 9/18 .500 30/1.9 32/1 65 45 2.8 
into Army Nursing opportunities. It could be an 
Willis 16/11 174/13.4 14/34 .412 15/25 .600 45/3.5 2210 3 43 3.3 
education.
Kaiser 16/4 262/16.4 13/32 .406 1/5 .200 38/2.4 25/0 16 27 1.7 
SGT. John P. Moore
Basford 18/7 259/14.4 9/26 .346 4/4 1.000 31/2.8 29/0 41 22 1.2 Thompson 710 81/11.6 5/19 .263 4/4 1.000 12/1.7 3/0 6 14 2.0 
Call collect (815) 727-9120 
Barron 9/0 39/4.3 2/3 .667 6/9 .667 4/.5 2/0 3 10 1.1 Skieresz 4/0 17/4.2 3/6 .500 3/4 .750 10/2.5 3/0 0 9 2.2 
ARMY. 
Morrison 8/0 29/3.6 4/12 .333 0/2 .000 13/1.6 610 0 8 1.0 
BEALLYOU CAN BE.
'\ \ 
' \ 
' 

' \ .-.----------------­
' 
t t 
MILLIONS
t t t t t t 
AGAINSTMS 
I 
t t 
I i, 
I . 
t t t t 


-...............--!~KICKOFF 
' t
t A Touch of Class t 
t t 
PARTY 
~\ t t 
~ '\ 
1 The Oalc Room Cafeteria t 
this Saturday, FEB 9
' 

. 
t invites you t 
at
t to t 
the South Dome ofthe ACC from
I enjoy this special t t meal t 
9:30 pm -12:00 am t t 
featuring
t Friday, February 8, 1985 t· 
PIZZA& COKE
t 4:00-7:00p.m: t 
an exclusive 3 hour M1V Music Video 
t French Onion Soup t 
and a chance to WIN t Fried Vegetable Basket t 
2 tickets to Florida for Spring Break : Seafood Cocktail : Tickets are $2 and are available
t t
t CHICKEN COQ AU VIN $4.60 t 
in the Dining Halls
I SURF & TURF 5.75 t 
~ ·, 
~ t MUSHROOM QUICHE 4.10 t 
or at the door
' . 
( . , BROILED HADDOCK 3.85 t 
r 
sponsored in part by
~ t ALMADINE t 
r 
.. t Dinner price includes salad, vegetable 1 
UNITED COCA COLA MAIN VIEW SOUND and potato. 1 BEVERAGE BOTTLING 982-9900 
J.P. Freemanof SOUTH BEND
: Reservations will be accepted 1 239-7518 t 
...___tlr_fln__fl"'Z/P104-"'_
L--~~~~~~~~~~~~--J 

-· 
Sports Briefs/ 
NCAA basketballtournamentticketsfor the Southeast Regional games to be played at the ACC on March 14 and 16 are on sale for students today at the ACC. -The Obseroer 
A pep rallyfor Saturday's basketball.game agai.nst Syracuse will be held tomotrow at 7: I 5 p.m. in the auxtlary gym m the ACC. ­
The Obseroer 
The Notre Dame Squash Club will play host 
to the regional Insilco wurnament on Feb. 15, 16 and 17 at the ACC. Two winners will receive an expense-paid trip to Chicago in April. All members of the student body, faculty or staff are invited to sign up by Wednesday, Feb. 13, in the ACC.-The Obseroer 
An interhall wrestling tournament is being sponsored by NVA. For information, contact the NVA office at 
239-6100. The deadline for entries is Wednesday, Feb. 13. -The Obseroer 
An interhall swimming meet is being 
sponsored by NVAon Feb. 19. Hall representatives must submit a list ofentries and divers provide a list ofdives to Dennis Stark by Feb. 18. For more information, call Coach Stark at 239-6222.-The Obseroer 
Discounts up to 15% 2nd Floor LaFortune 
Thursday, February 7, 1985-page 15 
Rogers accepts Detroit Lions' post, leaves head coaching job with ASU 
Associated Press  Rogers said community and uni­ bad year and you're cornered from  
versity unrest about the Sun Devils'  all  angles.  I've  always thought  it  
5-6 season in 1984 did not contrib­ should be a three or four-year con­ 
ute  to  his  decision,  but  said  an  tract."  
Arizona state  law limiting college  
coaches to one-year contracts both­ Rogers  said  he'll  help  Arizona  
ered him.  State finish the recruiting season if  
"I've always thought that it's very  officials want him, "even if I have to  
unfair," Rogers said. "You have one  work weekends."  

Box Score 
Last Night's Results Notre Dame 71, LaSalle 58 LaSalle (58) 
M FG-A  FT-A  R  
Tiano  22  0-2  2-2  1  
Koretz  35  1-8  0-0  2  
Lewis  39  8-13  4-7  10  
Greenberg  31  4-6  3-7  3  
Black  39  6-18  4-4  4  
Moran  1  0-0  0-0  0  
Tarr  11  0-2  1-2  1  
Jackson  1  0-0  0-0  0  
Lee  5  0-1  o-o  0  
Legler  16  3-6  o-o  3  

Notre Dame (71)  
M FG-A  FT-A  R  F  p  
Dolan  18  3-4  2-2  8  3  8  
F  P  Barlow  39  7-13  4-6  11  3  18  
4  2  Royal  36  3-6  6-8  8  2  12  
3  2  Rivers  34  5-11  4-5  3  4  14  
4  20  Price  22  3-6  0-0  2  1  6  
3  11  Hicks  18  2-5  1-2  3  2  5  
2  16  Spencer  1  0-0  0-0  0  0  0  
0  0  Newell  1  0-1  o-o  0  0  0  
2  1  Beeuwsaert  3  0-1  o-o  0  1  0  
0  0  Duff  5  0-0  2-4  0  1  2  
0  0  Peters  1  o-o  0-0  0  0  0  
2  6  Kempton  21  3-3  Q-1  4  3  6  

10% off on purchases under $5 15% off on purchases over $5 clip and save this ad ! 
200 22-56 14-22  24  20  58  Voce  1  o-o  0-0  0  0  0  
FG Pet.  -.393. FT Pet.  -.636. Team  200 26-50 1~28  39  20  71  
rebounds-2. Turnovers-10. Assists-7  FG Pet.  -.520. FT Pet.  -.679. Team  
(Black 3). Technicals-none.  rebounds-6. Turnovers-13. Assists-16  
(Rivers 7). Technicals-none.  

Halftime -Notre Dame 33, LaSalle 26. 
. 
Officials -Dick Paparo, Pete Pavis, Rusty Herring (all ACC). A-10,750. 
WANTED Hotel Night Desk Clerk Part Time 


Tonight's the night I 
FIND OUT ABOUT THE 
THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
(The leader in entertainment) 

FLORIDA TRIPS­
FT.LAUDERDALE 
$299.00 
and 
DAYTONA BEACH 
$199.00 
Thursday, February 7th at 7:00 in LaFortune Liffle Theatre 
Or call the S.A.B. at 239-7757 
$75.00 deposits due by Feb. 14 
Sign-ups at the record store 
Attention all off-campus juniors & abroad students from last year ... As there is a miXup with the Registrar's Office and their current off-campus address list, you are cordially being invited to attend the Hall Party of your choice on Feb. 16 at 10:00 pm of the Junior Parents' Weekend. Please notify either the Hall Coordinator of your choice or myself by Feb. 10. Thank you, Duane Lawrence 283-3744 Hall Parties Chairperson 

WE OFFER A FULL LINE OF CATERING 
Roa.t Pig. Beef. Poll•h Saa•age. Ham and Shoulders 
232•1177 SOUTHBEND 
lilA •Ill'"'" • CHICKEN • HAIIIUIIQIRI 
SPECIAL OFFER 
Buy One Order OfRib Tips ­Next Order HalfPrice -Thru Feb. 16­


LaSalle 
continuedfrom page 20 
several LaSalle defenders, and ex­ecutes a vintage behind-the-back dribble before flipping the baH back to Kempton under the basket for the easy layup. 
Act two: In a repeat performance, Rivers steals the ball and flies downcourt, sliding between several LaSalle defenders, and executes a 
The Observer 
Thursday, February 7, 1985-page 16 
~nu~ ~Wn~ili~b~k dri~k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 


To ourspecialfriends: 
Thank you so much for the Party Saturday night. It meant so much to us. The party continues Aprill9, 1986. Thanks again, love you all ! 
-M.B. andF.P.C. 
The SAB Record Store 
now has a new name•.• 
ROCK DULAC RECORDS 
Congratulations to contest winner Joe Finch ofSt. Ed's 
STORE HOURS: 1-5 M-F 
"~owellS fyo1t aQQ occm~tottg~· 
Come ·in and Browse 
327 Lincolnway· 2~1-3354! 
FOR BRITISH UNDERGRADUATES, THE BEST EDUCATION IS IN OXFORD &CAMBRIDGE FOR AMERICANS, ITS IN CANTERBURY & LONDON 
The Institute for American Universities now offers 3 study-abroad options in Great Britain: King's College of the University of London, The Institute's British Studies Centre in Canterbury, and Royal Holloway College (also of the University of London). Each combines a first-rate academic programme with the opportunity to live and travel in Europe. 
For details concerning the Institute's programmes, write to us at 73 Castle Street, Canterbury CT1 200, England, or see your campus study-abroad advisor. 

'\ ' . 

I , 


before flipping ilie ball to guard 
Scott Hicks under ilie basket for the 
easy layup. 
In less ilian 30 seconds, Rivers had 
captured the spotlight, ilie Irish had 
taken the lead at 17-16, and the 
crowd was on its feet. LaSalle never 
had the lead again. 
When Rivers returned following a hard fall on a fast break, the Irish were sitting atop a 29-22 lead, and aliliough ilie Explorers crept back to wiiliin iliree at 29-26, jumpers from Rivers and Barlow reinstated the seven-point margin at halftime, 33· 26. 
From then on it was catch-up ball for LaSalle, which was not good news for a team which likes to run a controlled, take-your-time offense, and which was even worse news for a team which was shooting under 40 percent and getting thrashed on the boards. 
"I don't think we did a bad job defensively," said Ervin. "But when you're trying to come from behind, you have to give some things up. 
"They just had superior rebound­ing. There were times when there were four or five blue shirts in there at once, and we just couldn't come up with it." 
In other words, everyiliing went wrong for the Explorers, especially in the first seven minutes of the second half. Rivers and Barlow came into the half the same way they went out of the first one, teaming on a relaxed alley-oop that put the Irish up, 41-32. On top of that, Dolan scored six of his eight points in that period, and Royal laid it in following a pass from Rivers. When Joseph Price started hitting from the outside, Notre Dame's lead was 47­34, and LaSalk never got closer than nine the rest of the way, despite a game-high 20 from Lewis. 
Barlow, Rivers and Royal tallied 18, 14 and 12 points, respectively, for the Irish. Rivers also handed out seven assists . 
..,Jvers is playing now as well as he .:an play," said Phelps. "Between the press, transition game and con­trolling the hoards, we really got them." 

The Observer Thursday, February 7, 1985-page 17 
S'Qt>~·~ ~•-«f/lltSl.{s 
Show ND or SMC student or staffID and get a 10% discount 
18061 State Road 23 Near Ironwood 
ARMIDA KOBEK South Bend. Indiana 46637 '(219) 277-2870 
Attention Juniors 
Applications for next year's SENIOR FORMAL chairman will be available in the Student Activities office in LaFortune from Feb. 7 to Feb. 14. Completed applications are due · at the Student Activities offfice by 4pm Friday, Feb. 15. 
Go D 
ND/SMC ski teams to participate in regional meet in Caberfae Mts. 
ByTOMYOON 
Sports Writer 
This weekend the Notre 
Dame/Saint Mary's men's and wo­
men's ski teams, captained by John 
O'Donovan, Kateri Gaffney, and Ann 
Ratledge, will ski in the regional 
meet in the Caberfae Mountains. 
This meet will determine the teams 
that will go on to divisonals in 
February. 
Concerning the upcoming meet, O'Donovan says, "I believe that ifwe ski well this weekend, we have a strong chance to secure a bid to regionals." 
For the women's squad, Julie Currie said she believes that the team also has a chance to qualify for regionals if it performs well this weekend. 
The main reason for their expec­tations is that, for the first time in its history, the ski team has been able to train once every week at Swiss Val· ley. In previous years, a winter trip to Crested Butte, Colo., has been the extent of the skiers' training. 
Their training this year began on registration day of the second se­mester when they went to Swiss Val-

Righttoyourdoor. 
(Within a two-nille radius.) 

Call us anytime after 5 p.m., order a 
medium or large pizza piled high with 
any combination of your favorite 
toppings, sit back and relax. We'll be 
right over. 
Just think, hot, thick and delicious 
Godfather's Pizza, loaded with mountains 
of toppings and smothered with a thick 
layer of cheese. Mmmmmmm . . . . Are 
you hungry? 
Call Godfather's Pizza now. We'll be 
right over. 
277-5880 

atht:r6S 
,~~~Pizza 

52929 U.S. 31 North 
Delivel}' available only at South Bend location. 
ley with 75-80 people to hold tryouts for the team. Only twenty skiers make the travelling team; ten men make up the men's team which has an A and B squad, whereas there are five women on each ofthe Notre Dame and Saint Mary's squads. The team's season consists of four weekend meets where they journey either to the Caberfae or Crystal Mountains. At the meets there are two events, the slalom and the giant slalom, and points are awarded ac· cording to the place the racer finishes. At the end of the meet, the team with the lowest score wins. 
The ski team relies 80 percent on fund-raising; they raise money by selling Notre Dame turtleneck sweaters and working at concession stands at Irish football games. Since the turtlenecks are their main income, each member must sell 5· 10 shirts instead of paying a mem­bership fee. Currie noted that the team is primarliy organized for the purpose of racing, but that there have recreational skiers in the club. 
The Notre Dame men's team, cap­tained by John O'Donovan, started out slowly but quickly rebounded when it placed sixth on jan. 19, and third the day after in a meet that con· sisted of ten teams. The following weekend, the team competed against fifteen teams, and finished third on Saturday and second on Sunday. In its meet last weekend, the team captured first place. 
"This year's team is very young," says O'Donovan. "We only have one senior in the top five, that's Mike Ol­sen, and even though the loss of Mike will be greatly felt next year, we do have promising skiers on the team. Chris Simonet and Mike Mur­ray, are quickly becoming freshman sensations. A key to the team's suc­cess has been the improvement of 
Tony Jordan, the number-two racer." 
The number-one skier is 
O'Donovan, and he is considered 
one of the strongest men's skiers, 
having received individual medals at 
several of the meets, which has 
helped the team throughout the 
season. 
The Notre Dame women's ski 
team, captained by Kateri Gaffney, 
has had an average season. During 
the weekend of jan. 19 and 20, the 
team finished third out of ten teams 
on both days. But during the next 
weekend, it slipped to fourth on Sat· 
urday and finished fifth out offifteen 
teams on Sunday. Last weekend, the 
team placed fifth out of ten teams. 
"We have strong skiers, but we haven't been real consistent and that has hurt us thoughout the season," notes Currie. "Our strongest skier, 
K.K. Meyer, who is only a freshman, won a third place medal on January 
26. Unlike the men's team, we have three seniors: Kateri Gaffney, Kathy Karenzer, and myself. Even though Kathy is a senior, it is her first year of competing on the team, and she has done very well. Our other skiers are Molly Steber, a sophomore, and Stephanie Eck, who is our first alter­nate on the team and has competed in some ofthe meets." 
The Saint Mary's team, captained by Ann Ratledge, has also had an average year. In its opening meet on jan. 19 and 20, it placed fifth and sixth out of ten teams; a week later, the team finished seventh and eighth out of fifteen team. The Saint Mary's team is led by Shelia Smig­gens, a junior, lisa Hamann, Marry Keough, Karen Brady, and Ratledge. 
Now that the season is coming to a close, the teams' future might see some skiers performing in the divisionals. 

The UniversityofIllinoisatChicago 
MBACO·OP 
THESHORTCUTTO 
3M Quaker Oats General Electric Nabisco Brands Nalco Chemical 1st National Bank of Chicago Burroughs RCA Beatrice Foods Baxter Travenol Phillips Corp. General Motors 
These as wellas otherFortune 500 Companies hire UIC MBA students on salaried co-op (internship) positions as part of the degree program. Many lead to permanent job offers. 
To receive a brochure and further details call Ms. Thomas at (312) 996-4573 or fill out the coupon below: 
Name 
Address 
City State Zip 
Undergraduate School 
@ 
Send to: MBA Program Office 
College of Business Administration 
The University of Illinois at Chicago 
Box 4348, Chicago, IL 60680 
The Observer Thursday, February 7, 1985 -page 18 


APPhoto 
Utah's Adrian Dantley at forward, and San An­
tonio's George Geroin and Magic johnson of Los Angeles atguards. 
SENIOR BAR Thurs. 7Feb. Senior Class Toga Party "Animal House" on big screen $1 mixed drinks 1-14 oz. Bud to anybody in toga 'Was it over when the Germans bombed Pearl Harbor?' Friuay 90¢1MPORTSFeb.8 No free beer to anyone in a toga, so don't wear one...people might think you're a geek! Visit us before the Tri-Military Ball or O.C. Formal. Doors open at 8:00  


will be centerKareemAbdul-jabbar ofLos Angeles, 
Rookie Jordan to start for East 
NBA All-Stars tangle on Sunday 0 
Associated Press peared in the 1978 All-Star game in nis Johnson of Boston and Micheal Atlanta. Ray Richardson of NewJersey. INDIANAPOLIS · It will be a "I've been through a couple of West subs are forwards Larry record-setting afternoon for the Na· eras," Abdul-Jabbar said. "It's very Nance of Phoenix and Alex English 
N ~0f 
tional Basketball Association Sunday interesting the number of years I've and Calvin Natt, both of Denver; when the Western Conference faces been an All-Star. They are all like centers jack Sikma of Seattle and 
Call2J9-5_136 OR ,
I I the Eastern Conference at the 35th blurs. I've always dealt with them rookie Akeem Olajuwon ofHouston, 
S1QQ..b_y_L5. La Fortune Sr. Office 
All-Star Game. one at a time." an<~ guards Rolando Blackman of Los Angeles Lakers center Kareem "He's the most unique athlete M:E 6 TO 9Q.m
Dallas and Norm Nixon of the Los 
A 
l i \' Abdul-Jabbar will be making a anyone put on the face ofthe earth," Angeles Clippers. record 14th All-Star appearance said Lakers Coach Pat Riley, who will
' ' :~~~ when he starts for the West, which coach the West against K.C. jones, 

I I 
1 
,I·~ has lost five straight games, the coach of the Boston Celtics. "To 
·\\ longest streak in All-Star history. continue to do what he's doing, in 


THE STUDENT
~ \J :, 
' . \:\ More than 38,000 fans are expected the most demanding ofsports, is un­for the game in the Hoosier Dome, believable."
,·\ 
,. ·, which would break the record All­Abdul-jabbar is joined in the West 

ACTIVITIES BOARD
I. Star attendance of31,745 at the Pon­starting lineup by forwards Ralph tiac Silverdome in 1979. Sampson of the Houston Rockets 
and Adrian Dantley of the Utah Jazz Before this season, Abdul-Jabbar and guards George Gervin ofthe San 
THE LEADER IN ENTERTAINMENT 
shared the mark of 13 appearances Antonio Spurs and Earvin "Magic" with Wilt Chamberlain, Bob Cousy Johnson ofthe Lakers. and john Havlicek. In the 1 1 years The East starters are center Moses 
Presents... 
that the NBA has allowed fans to Malone of the Philadelphia 76ers, vote for the starting teams, Abdul­forwards Julius Erving of the 76ers Jabbar has amassed more than 3 mil­and Larry Bird of the Celtics and lion ballots. guards Isiah Thomas of the Detroit 


MARDI GRAS
Pistons and rookie Michael jordan of 
"It's a compliment they pay you in the Chicago Bulls. appreciation ofwhat you've given to Erving, like Abdul-Jabbar, will be the game," he said. "It's always nice making his 14th pro appearance in to be paid that kind of compliment, an All-Star game. His first five games 
FRIDAY: DANCE·A·THON
because these are the people we were in the American Basketball As­perform for. sociation. "Anytime you do something no Erving and Gervin both have been one else has done, it's something to All-Stars for all nine of their years in 
Stepan Center-6 p.m.-6 a.m. 
be proud of." the NBA, and Gervin played in three 
$2 ticket admission is raffle chance on
Although he is setting a record for ABA all-Star games. most appearances, Abdul-Jabbar is East reserves are forwards Ber­not the oldest player ever to be an nard King of New York and Terry 
Free Trip to New Orleans
All-Star. On Sunday, Abdul-Jabbar Cummings of Milwaukee; centers will be two months and six days Robert Parish of Boston and Jeff 
for the real Mardi Gras! 
short ofhis 38th birthday, three days Ruland of Washington, and guards younger than Havlicek when he ap-Sidney Moncrief of Milwaukee, Den­
6 -8: Big Twist & Mellow Fellows Jazz Bandfrom Chi-Town
-===NVA==========t 
9 -1: Rock with the Danger Bros.
CROSS COUNTRY ~ 
1-6: D.J.
·SKI RACES· /'-_) u-
SATURDAY: Airband & Talent Contest
FEB9 ~ 
8:00 -South Dining Hall 
Schedule of Events 
$1.50 Admission, judged by audience appreciation 
Activities and fun for the novice and pro 
12 NOON-OBSTACLE COURSE: A short race, mostly just for fun. Single elimination format. 
$100°° First 
~e 
12:45pm-TWO MILE RACE: Race around the perimeter 
/ 
of the golf course; men's and women's winners. 1:30pm-SPRINT RELAY: Another fun race with a partner 
in each Contest 
Rentals free for use during the events· register in advance and reserve skis-hot chocolate and prizes!! 
.,.REGISTER BY FEB 8 · 239-6100 
.: 
~ I 



.... 

Thursday, February 7, 1985-page 19 
46 Prescription 52 Golfclub
The Daily Crossw-ord 
direction 53 Happy as a ­48 Lord's home 54 Recede
ACROSS DOWN 
49 Avoid 55 Singing1 Gentle as a -36 Elusive 1 Testing place 26 Pocahontas' 50 Sailor syllable5 Townmap 40 "-body meets 2 Mellows husband 51 Rhyme scheme 58 Earl Grey 9 Punctuation a body ... " 3 Dissolve 27 Pelvic 
mark 4 Hungry as a -28 Pickpocket 14 "A Death In 41 --do-well 5 Bogus 
Wednesday's Solution
the Family" 42 Quaker family 29 Word with nay author 43 Motion or sooth
6 Cant 
supporter 30 Legal holdings 
7 Codeorrug
46 Smart 31 Baking chambers
15 Takeon 8 Mosaic-like 
47 Casual16 "What's in -?" 
32 Tremor48 Pasture sound
17 Bartok or 9 Snooze condition49 LaggardLugosl 10 Soup vegetables 34 Independent54 Spirit of a 18 Wallet items 11 Groucho agentculture19 Fatigues 37 Furnish income 56 Zola title 20 Sturdy 
57 Spoiled one 12 Mrs. in 59 Robert of Scot. Marseilles 38 Kitchen wear23 Classic car 60 Heavy shoe 13 DOE opponent 39 Originally
24 Verve 61 Caliber called
25 In a dry way 
29 Twaddle 62 Places to 21 Shipdeek 33 Laming disease save 22 Pseudonym 44 "A ten­34 FOR's pet 63 Raison d'-25 Extreme scholar" 35 Marsh elder 64 Singer Paul orbital point 45 Certain loops 
© 1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
All Rights Reserved 


Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 



Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
81NKL€Y l fli5A51C~.' 
U5rell.1f('f 10 fiNfl 
1letJf/5T llf?I(E51EP 
~ PAUAS.•. HE'S 
(KJ(J5 l 1fX1( HIM 
(J()NNA fEfp A UIWW?•. 
AWRY' IN CHAIN5 l 
MN A /Wf1EJ{ ON€. 
RI&Hr.' 
I 

Campus 
•
3:30 p.m. -Colloquium, "Sacred and Rational Discourse: A Critique of Hebermas," Prof. Klaus Kodalle, University of Hamburg, Germany, library Lounge. 

•4 
p.m. -Radiation Laboratory Seminar, "Electrons in Radiation Chemistry and Electroc· hemistry: Are They the Same Species," Dr. Kbnig­niew Zagorski, Conference Theatre, Radiation Laboratory. 

•4: 
15 p.m. -Seminar, "Realism vs. Romance: The War of Cultural Codes in Tennyson's Maud," Dr. Chris Vanden Bossche, NO, Room 210 0 'Shaughnessy. 

•4:30 
p.m. -Biology Seminar, "Microbial Degradation of Hazardous Wastes: A Viable Op­tion," Dr. Charles Kulpa, Room 278 Galvin. 

•
7 p.m. -Thursday Night FUm Series, "The Gen­eral," O'Shaughnessy Loft. 

•7 
p.m.-Classical Guitar Recital, Ramonjusticia, Stapleton Lounge, Sponsored by SMC Departments of Modern Languages and Music. 

•
7-8 p.m. -SBP/VP Debate, Room 2-D LaFortune. 

•7 
-10 p.m. · Class Series, Natural Family Plan· ning, Mr. & Mrs. William Bettcher, Room 27 Hayes Healy, Sponsored by University Ministry, i35/couple. 

•7 
& 9:30 p.m. -FUm, "A Street Car Named Desire," Carroll Hall (SMC), S1.50. 

•7, 
9:15 & 11:30 p.m.-Film, "Poltergeist," Engi­neering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activi­ties Board. 

•8 
p.m.-Lecture, "The Church and Economics," Archbishop Rembert Weakland, Chairman of the Bishops' Committee , of the Pastoral Letter on "Catholic Social Teaching and the U.S. Economy," CCE Auditorium. 


TV Tonight 
8:00p.m.  16  Bill Cosby Show  
22  Magnum PI  
28  Movie  
34  34 Front  
8:30p.m.  16  Family Ties  
9:00p.m.  16  Cheers  
22  Simon & Simon  
34  Mystery  
9:30p.m.  16  Night Court  
22  WKRP in Cincinnati  
tO:OOp.m.  16  Hill Street Blues  
22  Knots Landing  
28  20/20  
34  Masterpiece Theatre  

-

' I, ~ c 
I' 
' '
:I
\ 
J 

Thursday, February 7, 1985 -page 20 
H: 
1l
1 ; 
Irish pound boards in 71-58 victory over LaSalle 
' 
~ 
I I l\S \!-Explorers limited to 39 percent from field; 
(, ·\.r 
I h 
~ ·, Barlow (18), Rivers (14) pace Notre Dame 
\~ 
\ ~ Price starting to contribute to Irish 
.. \ \
~'( after recovering from early injuries · 
I l 
I \ 
\ By MARC RAMIREZ 
Sports Writer 
like Explorer head coach Dave "Lefty" Ervin said afterward, it was a 
t \ 
~ ' 
~ \ 
game ofalmosts. 
I \ 
A little more than five minutes
I \ 
into the game, it almost looked as if
~ \~ ­
the Irish were looking ahead to Sat­t ,'\~ urday's game against Syracuse in­stead ofat the 1 1-4 deficit they were 
!.~~ ~ 
facing. Then, after a 15-5 run that put 
Notre Dame ahead at 19-16 withal­~ \ ·~ most I 0 minutes remaining in the ~ .. \ half, it almost looked as if the Irish 
fast-break offense would put LaSalle~) ~ away for good. ~ ··'~ Then it almost seemed Irish guard 
\~ David Rivers wouldn't be playing for a while when he went down after
~{ 
being fouled on a fast break. 
\~ But Rivers returned, and Notre Dame utilized its height advantage
.J 
to exploit an Explorer offense that\~ almost didn't make anything, and the Irish went on to defeat an over­
\~
\ 
. \~ 
\J By ERIC SCHEUERMANN
\,, 
Sports Writer 
\~ 
I \ 
: ' In this, a roller-coaster season for\' f the Notre Dame basketball team, 

. ,~·~ 
junior guard Joseph Price has !··· definitely had his share of ups and
,\~
\) 
downs. 
..~·i: 
'" 
Although a projected starter at the beginning of the season, Price had
\l 
suffered numerous injuries that had 
hampered his progress through the· 
,\\j 
first half of the year. An ankle injury suffered before
\~ 
the season started slowed him
\~ 
down, and a broken nose suffered~} just before Christmas put him out of action just as his play was starting to
\~ come around. 
\~ 

)~ 

Joseph Price 
"Before the season started," says the 6-5 graduate of Marion High School in Marion, Ind., "I was going to be starting. But all these injuries kept holding me back." 
Although Price felt depressed a bit, he turned it all around last Mon­day against Providence when he scored 11 points in the Irish victory. Since then, he has played very solid basketball, and has helped the team to four straight wins. 
"It was hard not to keep from being down because of all the injur­ies that I bad," says Price. "I knew I was behind, but I knew it was just a matter of time before I got my chance. 
"The three games before the 
--~-----~-------'------­
matched LaSalle squad, 71-58, and improve their record to 13· 5 on the season. LaSalle draped to 13·9. 
"We just couldn't find a basket," said Ervin. "Coming in, we'd been shooting over 53 percent as a team, but tonight, we just couldn't do it. I can't remember a more frustrating game, shooting-wise." 
LaSalle connected on only 22 of its 56 attempts from the field for 39 percent. Guard Steve Black had come into the game as the Ex­plorers' third all-time leading scorer, averaging 19.3 points a game this season, and although he finished with 16 points, it was on six-for-18 shooting. 
"One of the keys going into the game was knowing that LaSalle was going to start three guards," said Notre Dame head coach Digger Phelps. "We started (Donald) Royal on (LaSalle gttard Steve) Black so that we could really pound the boards." 
And pound they did. Notre Dame almost completely dominated the 
UCLA game, I'd been playing really well, but I didn't know the UCLA game wasgoing to turn out so well. So now I've got my chance and I'm taking advantage ofit." 
Indeed, in the UCLA game last 
Sunday, Price turned in an outstand­
ing effort. He scored eight points 
and made several key steals, while at 
the same time helping to limit Bruin 
guard Nigel Miguel to seven points. 
"I just wanted to go out and play like I knew I could play," says Price. "Before the game, Coach told me to play with confidence, and to just play my game like I had against Indiana. That really relaxed me, be­
cause I wanted to win that game really badly. We hadn't beaten them in such a long time. 
"When I was a freshman, I had my first start against UCLA. I did pretty well in that game, but not half as well as I did this game. Sunday's win over UCLA is probably my greatest vic­tory vet." 
Head Coach Digger Phelps also feels Price has come around since his early-season troubles. 
"I thinkJoseph has had his ups and downs like any athlete," says Phelps. "No one is going to play super bas­ketball for 28 games. He played very well against Indiana, then he broke his nose and it set him back. 
"After the holidays, I thought he 
was in a slump. Then he just sort of 
came out ofit. We gave him the start 
in the Providence game because we 
knew they were going to play a 
matchup zone, and we just feel Price 
is a better zone player than Hick.'i. 
"He's started to get his confidence going again, and he's just been doing the job both offensively and defensively ever since." 
Mthought Price has made great strides since his arrival at Notre Dame, it has not come without a great deal of work. While at Marion High, he had not been called upon to handle the ball as often as he was asked to for the Irish. Ballhandling was an immediate problem. 
"I've had to really work hard here," he says. "In high school, I really didn't have to handle the ball much. It's been a total transition, be-boards, outrebounding the Ex­plorers, 45-26. The frontline trio of Royal, Ken Barlow and Jim Dolan collected a total of 27 rebounds alone. 
"They just weren't hitting their shots," Phelps said. "And we were controlling the defensive boards." 
It didn't seem like it was going to be quite that easy, though. LaSalle hurried to an 11-4 advantage on the strength of six points from 6-6 cen­ter Ralph Lewis, but Barlow added six points of his own for the Irish as they cut the deficit to 16-12. 
The almost-lethargic ACC crowd of 10,750 then came to life as the Irish proceeded to run off a string of seven straight points to take the lead. Following forward Tim Kempton's premiere to a round of warm student applause, it was Rivers who stole the show. 
Act one: Rivers steals the ball and flies downcourt, sliding between 
see LaSALLE, page 16 
Thr Obsnvn/Johann~ Haem 
junior trl-captain]im Dolan turned in 18 solid minutes in last night's 71-58 Notre Dame win over LaSalle in tbe ACC, scoring eightpoints andpulling down eight rebounds. Marc Ramirez bas tbegame story at left. 
cause I had to learn how to handle the ball here. 
"I've also had to work on my shooting and my defense. I really think my defense is coming. With some more work, I think I have the potential to be a good defensive player" 
"I think his ballhandling and his passing have been problems," com­ments Phelps. "But he's been drilling and drilling on these things. I think 
see PRICE, page 13 
Cross-country skiing is becoming more popular among ND students 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Editor 
Basketball has been one of the 
most popular recreational activities 
at Notre Dame for quite some time. 
Hundreds ofstudents grab a ball and 
head out to the courts with their 
friends every day for the exercise 
and break from studies. 
Playing some hoops is not the only popular activity on campus, though. You may not see it by walking around most ofthe campus, but the boom of cross-country skiing has begun. More and more people who want to enjoy the benefits of aerobic exercise are fin­ding that skiing around the golf course or the many trails in South Bend is the activity that they are looking for. 
It is doubtful that cross-country skiing will ever surpass basketball in popularity, but the interest in the sport among students and staff has increased tremendously -so much, in fact, that the Non-Varsity Athletics Office has planned a number of events and clinics to appeal to the growing number ofskiers. 
The latest, and possibly biggest, event is the NVA's "A Day at the Races," which will be held on Satur­day from noon to approximately 2 or 3 p.m. on the golf course. Ex­pected to be a "celebration ofcross­country skiing," the event includes 
races for both experienced and in­experienced skiers. 
"The event is designed for people with lots of experience who are looking for competition," says Sally Derengoski, the NVA's coordinator of recreational activities, "but there will also be events for people with 
little  or  no  experience  who  just  
want to have fun."  
Interested  skiers  can  sign  up  

today and tomorrow in the NVA of­
fice, or they can register by calling ·the NVA at 239-61 00. 
Derengoski expects a good tur­nout for the event, which probably would not been the case in previous years. There has always been a small group of people who enjoyed the solitude and vigorous exercise that is part of cross-country skiing, but not until now has there ever been a large demand for ski rentals and clinics. The demand has made events such as "A Day at the Races" possible. 
The growth in popularity is best exemplified by the drastic increase in weekend ski rentals. In previous years, the NVA would rent out about four or five pairs each weekend. That number has increased about 1000 percent this year. 
"The rentals have bC"en in· credible," says Dcrengoski. "We've been sold out every weekend so far this semester. We've tried to go out of the way to make rentals possible by getting the word out and lower­ing prices. It's helped us get a lot of repeat business. It's also allowed us to sponsor a lot ofdifferent activities that appeal to cross-country skiers. We wouldn't be able to have so many activities if the sport wasn't so popular." 
The growth in the popularity of cross-country skiing can be attrib­uted primarily to the increased con­cern about fitness that has become part of society. Aerobic exercise classes have never been more popular, while jogging and bicycling have also seen a rise in popularity. 
Of all these aerobic activities, though, cross-country skiing is prob­ably the most demanding physically. While other activities focus on cer­tain parts of the body, usually the lower body, skiing involves both the upper and lower parts of the body. The fact that it is an activity per­formed in cold weather with heavy clothing also makes for a more vigorous activity. 
The increase in popularity at Notre Dame can be attributed to more than the fitness boom, though. Derengoski points to three things in particular that have helped the sport. 
"We've been able to get the word out about our programs, which has really helped," she says. "Also, the 
see SKIING, page 13 






