HPC-page3 


VOL XX, NO. lH the independent ~tutknt ncw~papn .~en ing notn dame ;md ~aint mar~·~ 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 1985 
Group sues South Bend to 'CEASE' ethanol odor 
By TRIPP BALTZ 
StaffReporter 
A citizen-hacked environmental 
group has decided to sue the city of 
South Bend in an effort to rid the 
community of problems brought 
about by the local ethanol plant. 
At a forum held last night at a local chun:h by CEASE (the Committee of Environmentalists Against the Sll'ndl of Ethanol ), committee chairman John Roberts announced the dt•cision to take legal action against the city administration. He made an appeal to concerned citizc:n1> to help finance the under­taking. 
Roberts emphasized that the period of time for the statute of limitations is ending, after which no court action can be filed against the plant. The citizens are now making an attempt to file a suit before the deadline ofOctober I arrives. 

"Our a(·tual purpose isn't to close the plant, but to eliminate the odor," said Roberts. He said Mayor Roger Parent had not acted on I0,000 peti· tions Roberts had submitted to him written by citizens asking for some­
Reagan takes tough stance on 'Star Wars,' 
thing to be done about the smell. "He politely accepted them, but chose: to ignore them. I don't call 


but leaves open possibility for negotiation 
that responsive:. I don't see how you 
Associated Press 
can call that responsive," Roberts Reagan said he was taking his Reagan said imposing restrictions Reagan said he "must be prettytold the small group of 4S-SO. 
WASHINGTON President prospective summit meeting against this country's trading near the middle" if some critics sayParent was out of town yesterday, Reagan said last night he would rule seriously, but added he doesn't plan partners could produce counter­he should do more while othe~ sayand no representative: of the ad­out any summit agreement with the on giving the Soviet leader "a measures against American industry he has done too much toward en­
ministration was present at the Soviet Union that would block tes­friendship ring or anything." and agriculture. ding the apartheid system In South forum. 
The president never used the Africa. The president last week "I'm surprised no one's here to lis· "It isn't necessary that we love orting and development of his con­
troversial "Star Wars" space-based word veto -and never mentioned imposed economic sanctions 
ten to our concerns," Roberts told even like each other," he said, but 
missile system. the word Congress -as he discussed against Pretoria. 
the group. CEASE asked a that it is important for the two super­
trade. But his message was un­The question-and-answer session representative from New Energy, powers to negotiate.
But the president, answering mistakeable, coming a few hours with reporters, televised live from the company that owns the plant,to Reagan opened his news con­
questions at his first formal news after the Senate Finance Committee the East Room at the White House, 
attend the meeting, hut none was ference with a call for "free and fair
conference in three months, ind­took a step toward having the wa.'i the 31st of Reagan's presidency
trade for all," and cautioned that a
sent. icated he might be willing to government retaliate against and the fourth since his second term 
Having spoken with Parent, "mindless stampede toward protec­
negotiate with Soviet leader Mikhail countries which close their doors to began in january.Rogers presented the mayor's ideas Gorbachev over the deployment of tionism will be a one-way trip 
imports of American-made
toward economic disaster." Reagan said imposing restrictionson the problem to the audience at 
the controversial system. telephone equipment.the forum. The mayor wants money With numerous bills pending in against this country's trading
Reagan also defended his policies 
from New Energy, the Department With the Reagan-Gorbachev sum­Congress to slap restrictions on partners could produce counter­
toward South Africa's white-ruled of Energy, or the citizens of South mit set for Nov. 19-20 in Geneva, the American trading partners, the government, saying, "1 think that measures against American industry 
Bend to pay for the system that will president said free trade can lead to and agriculture.
president also defended the recent when you're standing up against a 
eliminate the stench that reaches a "decade ofgrowth" and creation of
test of an American anti-satellite cellophane wall and you're getting "Protectionist tariffs could invite 
towns ;o miles from the plant site, 10 million new jobs in this country.
weapon. He said the Soviets have shot at from both sides you must be retalation," Reagan said, recalling according to Roberts. tested such'a system, and added, The U.S. trade deficit is expected doing something right. If it had all the Smoot Hawley protectionist
"We question the validity ofsuch 
"We couldn't stand by and allow to be in the S1 SO billion range this come from one direction, I would legislation that Congress enacted a them to have a monopoly on the year, prompting calls for protection h~ve looked again and said, 'Well, half-century ago and the interna­see STINK, page 4.• ability to shoot down satellites." for numerous American industries. did I miss something here."' tional trade wars that followed. 

SMC freshmen elect council today 
ByJACQUIE A. BRUMMEL The theme of the election ,"The elected," she: said, "it was a great ex­
News Staff Carnival of Candidates," is signified perience to meet all the candidate:> 
by three balloons. and the multitude of people that I 
Unless you've been stashed away Saint Mary's senior Mary Lally is have." 
in your room for the past five days, the elections commissioner, who or­"This is really something that I 
you couldn't help but step on or run ganizes all student council and hall want though, not just a celebrity 
into some slogan or poster concern­elections for each grade levc:l. Her kick." 
ing freshmen elections at Saint job began last spring and will con­Fellow candidate Brigid Brennan 
Mary's. tinue through this spring. said, "If I am elected on Freshmen 
The election will be held today at Mary feels that this freshmen class council, I will bring many new ideas 
the Haggar College Center from 8 has more enthusiasm than previous because I want to do a lot for this 
a.m. until 6 p.m. classes, because it has many more class." 
When Saint Mary's freshmen vote, bright,, interesting ideas than Mary Lally said the voter turn-out they will choose 13 candidates out previous classes. should be above average consider­
of3S. Candidate Kelly Glavin, of ing the number ofcandidates. The 1 3 top vote getters will be Rochester, New York, said, "I am ex· 
Building on 
Construction on both campuses progresses, and nice weather 
placed in specific positions on the tremely excited to represent our Winning candidates will be 
can't be hurting the workers' dispostition. Shown here is the addi­
council in approximately three class and bring new ideas to our posted this evening in the Haggar
tion to the Science Building at Saint Mary's. 
weeks. Saint Mary's community. If I am not College Center. 

Drawing on talents 
Fourth-year architecture student Mauricio Salazar works out with his Walkman and drawing board yesterday at the Ar-


The Observer Wednesday, September 18, 1985-page 2 
. 


In Brief 
The campus anti-apartheid movement is heating up again. Stanford Out of South Africa members, who were blocked from sitting in at the Stanford University president's office earlier this summer, met recently with the president to discuss Stan­ford's divestment policy. A Penn State University Board of Trustees member was arrested while protesting at the South African Embassy in Washington, D.C. The University of Arizona's Students Against Apartheid joined a protest outside the Federal Building in Tucson. University ofTexas students and Austin residents marched outside a recent Board of Regents meeting. ~rotesters from the University of Minnesota say the school's Board ofRegents violated the state's open meetings law by barring them from a recent meeting and using campus police to keep them out. -The Observer 
Of 'Interest 
The teleSCOpe in Niewland Hall is open for the year beginning today. Students can use the telescope on clear Wednesday nights from 7:30 to 9. The telescope is located on the fourth floor Niewland Hall. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame L-5 Society will sponsor a slide show on mining the moon and space colonization. The latest information on the National Areonautical Space Administration's (NASA)space station will be given. The meeting starts at 7:30p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theater. -The Observer 
Student Activities Board Manager Lee 
Broussard will be the guest on "Campus Perspectives" tonight on WVFI AM-64 at 10 p.m. Join hosts John Deckers and Jean Rozum with your questions and comments at 239-6400.-The Observer 
The Notre Dame Gospel Choir will have its first meeting/ rehearsal on Wednesday, September 18, 1985 at 7:00 
p.m. in 122 Crowley Hall. It is open to all students. -The Observer 
The ND Toasttnaster Club meets tonight at 6:3o in Rm. 223 Hayes-Healy. Umited membership. Those interested should bring dues. Officer nominations will be held. Tonight's theme is "Weekend Away."-The Observer 
"The New Entrepreneurs: Today's Unique op­portunities and Challenges," is the topic ofa lecture by Paula Nelson, author of many bestselling books on the acquisition of wealth, in­cluding "TheJoy ofMoney." The lecture will be today at 3:30p.m. in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium. Her lecture is sponsored by the Col­lege of Business Administration's Executive M.B.A program. -The Observer 


Weather 
Remember summer? No "fall­ing" temperatures this week. Partly sunny and warm today, high in the lower 80s. Clear tonight, low in the lower 60s. Sunny and con­tinued warm tomorrow, high in the mid 80s. ­
AP 


The-~­
lbe Obeerver (USPS ~99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. lbe O!Merveris published by !hestudents of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for 130 per year ( 120 per se· mester) by writinglbe O!Merver, P.O. 
Box Q. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
1be Obeerver is a member of lbe 
AModak:d Press. All reproduction 
rights are reserved. 
Design Editor .............Jane Anne Riedford 
Design Asslstant...................John Mennell 
Typesetters ................. ]ennifer Lynn Bigott 
John LaManche News Editor ....................... Bob Musselman Copy Edltor..•..............................]ohn Hines Sports Copy Editor.................. Larry Burke VIewpoint Copy Editor.......Alice Groner VIewpoint Layout............ Melissa Warnke Features Copy Editor.......•..•..............Girdy Features Layout.........................Carey Gels ND Day Editor................•....... Diane Dutart SMC Day Editor.................... Priscilla Karle Ad Design ...................................Jim Kramer 
jeanie Grammens 

Photographer .......................... Paul Kramer 

Law is for those who like it 
The law: It bas honored us; may we honor it. --Daniel Webster, 1847. 
Law school. What about it? 
A lot of senior arts and letters majors begin to get nervous around this time during the semester. They see their friends who have been studying engineering and business put on their best clothes and head out to inter­views. 
They see their friends trekking to Michiana Regional and flying off on plant trips and coming back with job offers paying $20,000-plus. They freak out. 
Then they sit down and type out an application to law school. 
For many students of his­
tory, philosphy or English, 
thood. It's a calling. Good 



law school seems to be the 
natural progession of their 
studies. A lot of the time, 
these students decide to 
study these subjects in order 
to develop a good back­
ground for law school. And 
that's terrific. 
But too many of these 
0

people don't know what 
they want to do, and be­
cause they see their friends 
entering the real world with 
great jobs and the prospect 
of making a lot of money, 
they see law school as a 
quick , viable way to cash in on their studies. 
That's not so terrific. In 1-\AIIItt..EI~HDI..T fact, it's disturbing. You can't blame these people, however. Senior year ofcollege is a confusing time in life. Seniors are making decisions that will influence the way they will live. llietimes are being planned. 
The attraction is obvious. To have money, to work in an honorable profession --to be a Yuppie --seems to be the national ideal for many young people today. 
Unfortunately, it doesn't always work that way. 
Right now, the law field is flooded. Because there are so many attorneys, the courts are overcrowded with litigation. Lawsuits that previously would never have been pursued are being picked up by these extra lawyers. 
Even good lawyers are having a hard time. And all because some confused young people succumbed to peer pressure; gave in to monetary pressure and bought the American dream of a good job and financial security. 
Ifpeople who aren't really interested in law enterlaw school, pass the bar, go into practice, become highly successful and make a lot ofmoney, then there is some­thing wrong with the system. 

Dan 
McCullough 
News Editor 

But there is nothing inherently wrong with the sys-tern. 
The people who enter law school bt:cause they are interested in making money become confronted with reality soon enough. Law is not a field for the money­oriented. 
Law is more like the pries­
lawyers are gifted with talent and a sincere desire to work with the law. Law has never been based on money. It has always been based on people. If a person can't realize this, that person should never go into law. 
"To be successful in law, you have to have a l.ove for the Iaw. You have to have an appreciation for what you are doing. And you have to want to help people," a young lawyer told me recently. 
"Too many people are going into law because it's 

the next logical step. These same people are finding that it doesn't work that way," he said. 
So what do arts and letters people do? 
The trick to being successful is finding out what you enjoy. If a person loves the law, if he or she has an ap­preciation for its nuances and application, if seeing justice prevail is what a person lives for, then that is the person that belongs in the courtroom. 
But if a student sees young lawyers on Michelob Light commercials wearing S700 suits, if a person's definition of a lawyer is someone who makes $200 an hour, if a person equates a lawyer with the guy down the block who has a new Cadillac every year, then that person is confused and should re-evaluate his or her concepts of 
the legal profession. 
There is a place in society for everybody. All a person has to do is to recognize his or her talents, and then apply them to what a person truly enjoys. 
WouldQ't that make the world a grand place? 
ANYONE WHO SIGNED UP FOR 


STUDEnT GOVERnmEnT 
at Activities Night I 
<and cnpw else, too> 


Sup<;r (:rucial M.~etiog TllllllltJiill ~~~ I :II IP .lm• 
ILtDIF(t)IP'IWJiil(l) ILItt.tt.U(I) 111lC8fll~lfl 
Rppllcatlons will be accepted for EHecutlue Director of: 
The campus-wide test file. 



The Observer Wednesday, September 18, 1985-page 3 


Da yau want th• f•m• af a PICASSO and th• respect af aDA VINCI? 
DESIDN--­



Camputer Graphics 
Far th• STUDENT ACTIVITIES BDARD PUBLICITY CDMMISSIDN 
Call Meegan at 7605 for Info 
Members ofthe NDISMC Sailing Club got words Dressel. The club finished second out of /8 teams ofencouragement yesterday from Commodore Dan last week at a regatta they sponsored. 

~in Notre Dame'~ Pubhc 6pflakin Club 


Our$4.99 
Wednesday special. 
Call DOMINO'S PIZZA~ to get our Wednesday special -a 12-lnch, single to~plng pizza tor just $4.99. It sa · great way to enjoy a hot, custom-made pizza and save money. 
And Domino's Pizza 
Delivers~ Free. In 30 min­
utes or less, or you get $3 off your order. 
So make Wednesday worth It with our $4.99 Wednesday special. It's available all evening every Wednesday. Only from Domino's Pizza'~. 
Call us: 
277-2151 
1835 South Bend Ave. Plaza 23 Center South Bend 
o~c/Jir
(JoRJ 


DOMINO'S 
PIZZA 
DELIVERS® FREE. 

Around the Corner Club strives to provide things to do each week 
By ALEX PELTZER 
StaffReporter 
Answering that familiar question of what to do on a Saturday night should be easier this semester. At least that is what Director ofStudent ActivitiesJoni Neal expects from the Around the Corner Club, Notre Dame's newest undergraduate club. 
The Around the Corner Club is a 
group ofstudents made up primarily 
of representatives from various stu· 
dent groups, including the Hall 
Presidents' Council, the Student Ac· 
tivities Board and each of the class 
governments. 
The club tries to plan and or· ganize campus wide events for each weekend, Neal said. 
"Our main goal is to provide con· sistent programs for the entire stu· dent body," she said. 
Currently, the club is planning "Hoosier Hysteria," a weekend of events designed like a mini An Tostal with an Indiana theme. The idea, ac· cording to Neal, is to project a better image of the state in which Notre 
Dame students spend four years of 
their lives. 

The event will consist of Hoosier 
Sport Night on Sept. 27 and a dance 
and Mr. and Mrs. Hoosier contest the 
next night. 

The sport night will be a combina· tion of contests between dorm teams. Free throw shooting, horseshoe throwing, hog calling, and watermelon pitching contests are scheduled. · 
In the future, the club will spon· sor a concert by jazz guitarist Alex DeGrassi, Honeymooners Night at Alumni-Senior club, and a perfor­mance by illusionist Bob Garner. 
Neal said the club formed because of last year's alcohol policy. She said the Board of Trustees is providing funding this year for campus-wide non-alcoholic programs. 
The club has already co· sponsored activities this year, in· eluding the beach party and the musical chairs game. 
"I would like the club to become a steady source of programs," said 
Neal. "We would like the students to 
ask  'what  does  the  Around  the  
Corner  Club  have  planned  for  
tonight?"'  

Neal stressed the need for student Involvement, both through planning and attending the events. Past events have been successful in both areas, but Neal said students are Invited to help organize Individual events and plan future ones. 
"We are trying to organize events that appeal to a wide range of stu· dent interests," Neal said. "We don't want to plan the same type of thing every weekend." 
The group Is organized through the Student Activities office andJoni Neal and Ceil Paulsen serve as co· advisors. 
There are no officers in the club and It Is mainly a volunteer organiza· tion. The idea, according to Neal, Is to pool the resources of the various student groups on campus. Any student interested in becom· 
!ing involved with the club should 
stop by or call the Student Activities 
office in LaFortune. 

HPC hears proposal for 21-club 
By SCOTT BEARBY 
Assi~ant News Editor 
Two hall presidents announced plans to form a 21-club on campus at last night's Hall Presidents' Council meeting. 
Stanford Hall President Jim Cran· dall said he is among a group ofstu· dents who wish to form an informal social club for those who can legally consume alcohol. He is hoping hall social spaces can be used for the 
Corrections 
Due to a reporting error in last week's Observer, the date for the reopening of Bridget McGuire' Filling Station was incorrectly stated. Bridget's has reopened. 
Due to a reporting error, an ar· 
tide in Monday's Observer incor· 
rectly gave the name of a 
committee head at Saint Mary's. 
Liz Meehan is the chairwoman of 
the Beautiful Room Committee. 
Also Saint Mary's Director of 
Security Richard Chlebek's name 
was misspelled throughout an ar· 
tide In yesterday's Observer. 
The Observer regrets the er· rors. 
The date of Paula Nelson's lecture, "The New Entrepreneurs: Today's Unique Opportunities and Challenges," was incorrectly reported in yes· terday's Of Interest section. The lecture is today at 3:30 in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium. 
events, but the group is facing some 
obstacles because of the campus al· 
cohol policy. 

The first happy hour was 
scheduled for this weekend In Lewis 
Hall; however, stipulations on ser· 
ving alcohol in hall party rooms have 
caused a postponement. 
Mimi Soule, Lewis Hall president, 
said the prime problem is that a 
guest list is required to hold an 
event, but they do not want to keep 
the party that formal. 
Soule said they want to be able to 
gather together to show movies and 
to socialize. Crandall said the group 
is hoping to have a cluster of dorms 
sponsor each event. 

HPC Secretary Gretchen Froehlke 
asked if the club would be any com­
petition for Senior Alumni Club, but 
Crandall said the 21-club is not 
meant to be a threat. "We just want 
to have fun," he said. 
Crandall said he will be doing fur. ther work to get the club started. Soules added that they may be able to work a compromise out withJohn Goldrick, associate vice president for residence life, about needing a guest list and meeting other stlpula· tions. 
In other business, hall presidents discussed whether they had noticed a fine increase for lost keys and Detex cards. Several presidents ack· nowledged that rectors are charging more than the S5 fine which ls stated lnDu Lac. 
The council will be looking Into why the Increase has been made. 
Pat Baccanari from the Anti· Apartheid Network spoke to HPC about his organization's efforts to In­crease student awareness about the problem in South Africa. He also updated the council on the Board of Trustee ad hoc committee set up to study Univerlsty investment practices.
Baccanart said the ad hoc commit· tee, of which he and two other stu· dents are a part, was partly formed because ofNotre Dame student con· cern about apartheid. 
The committee made recom· mendations to the Board ofTrustees about possible changes In the cur· rent investment policy. Baccanari added that the specifics of the proposal will not be made until Oc· tober when the Board of Trustees will meet. 
The Anti-Apartheid Network will continue to sponsor speakers, and movies, and distribute literature, ac· cording to Baccanarl. 
"Our goal is to increase student awareness about apartheid and ask the administration to revise Its In· 
vestment  policy,"  he  added.  Bac·  
canarl  said  the  group  is  not  
advocating protests.  

Fisher Hall President Bill Jelen an· nounced his hall has some tickets remaining for a September 29 outing to see the Chicago Bears play the Washington Redskins in Chicago. The price Is SIS for the ticket and bus transportation. He added that 
flyers should be posted around the halls. 
The Around the Corner Under· graduate Club announced plans for "Hoosier Hysteria Week" starting this Monday. Events will be scheduled throughout the week, In· eluding the Hoosier Tr~athon (horseshoes, watermelon toss, and free throws) on Friday, September 
27. Saturday a square dance will be held at the Alumni/Senior Club where students will be encouraged to come as their favorite Hoosier. 


The Observer Wednesday, September 18, 1985-page 4 


Chancellor's secretary may have taken secrets 
AModated Press 
BONN, West Germany A secretary in Chancellor Helmut Kohl's office has fled to Communist East Germany in the first spy case to hit the nation's highest office since a 1974 scandal toppled Willy Brandt, 
'officials said yesterday. 
The defection marked the latest in 
a drumfire of espionage incidents 
that began rocking Kohl's con­
servative coalition government last 
month. The scandal earlier touched 
the president's office and shook up 
Bonn's spy system. 
West German radio, citing Bonn security sources, said the latest defector, Herta-Astrid Willner, may have had access to secret informa­tion about the U.S. "Star Wars" program and a French-led high­technology project. 
Government officials said the 45­year-old secretary, who had worked in the chancellor's office nearly 12 years, had no access to material about the two projects. 
Mrs. Willner fled to East Germany with her husband, Herbert. Chief 
Stink 
continuedfrom page 1 
options," asserted Roberts, "especially when you consider the availability of money to these groups." He said it was unfair, however, that the administration should expect the taxpayers to pick up the bill. 
"Unless something is done about it, the burden will fall upon the citizens," he explained. 
Roberts then defined how action can be taken against the plant. The ethanol plant can be considered a state nuisance if "the value of a citizen's health goes down, or if his property is devalued as a result of the plant," Roberts clarified. "And if a citizen becomes sick, one can sue for damages." 
Roberts introduced Tom Zakrzewski, representative of the 6th congressional district, where the plant is located. Adding his sup­port to CEASE, Zakrzewski warned the citizens not to become apat­hetic. 
He pointed out the danger of waiting, and said inaction could mean that the town would be stuck with the problems. "Why should any citizen of South Bend have to live with that?" he asked. 
"The odor can and will be cor­
rected, the technology is there," 
Zakrzewski declared. 
During the open discussion that followed Zakrzewski's comments, a question was raised concerning a rumor that New Energy would benefit from the lawsuit should the citizens lose. T.A. Shula., an attorney federal. prosecutor Kurt Rebmann said both were under investigation on suspicion ofspying. 
Her 59-year-old husband worked in the Naumann Foundation, which is closely tied to the junior party in Kohl's coalition government, and had once been a member of East Germany's Communist Party, Reb­mannsaid. 
Bonn security· officials, who spoke on condition ofanonytnity, said Wil­lner had been under suspicion for sometime. 
In resignation letters sent to their respective employers, the couple said they had fled to East Germany, Rebmann said. 
Axel Wernitz, an opposition So­cial Democrat and chairman of the Parliament's Interior Committee, said the latest case would cause "considerable damage" to West Ger­many. 
Deputy government spokesman }uergen Sudhoff said Mrs. Willner's defection marked the first spy case to hit the chancellor's office since the Brandt government fell. 
from Indianapolis who attended the forum at the request of Roberts, ex­plained that there was no basis in the rumor. 
"New Energy can collect only when no basis for a lawsuit exists," he said. He explained that this nor­mally only occurs in the event of a frivolous suit. 
"From what I've heard here tonight, such a thing could not oc­cur," said Shula. Roberts refused to comment on whether Shula would eventually become more involved with the case. 
Roberts responded to a multitude of complaints that came from the townsfolk who attended the forum to speak about the problems the plant has brought to the community. One woman said that a neighbor had been told by her doctor that her health problems were a result ofher nearness to the plant. "I believe that an inadequate job was done in assessing the health problem in the community," said Roberts. 
Angered citizens blamed the et­hanol plant for nausea, blurred eyesight, and difficulties in breath­ing. One woman compared the future community of South Bend to Love Canal, should the problems of the ethanol plant remain. 
Roberts claimed that the mayor 
has tried to stall the townsfolk from 
action by telling them to be patient 
and wait for the problems to go 
away. 
"It's an old political ploy to create 
a comtnittee and position yourself 
behind it, pretending to be solving 
the problem," said Roberts. "I think 
our chances of success are excel­
lent," he predicted. 

Canyou afford to gamble with the LSAT, GMAT, GRE,orMCAl? 
Probabty not. Great grades alone may not be enough to impress the grad school of your choice. 
Scores play a part. And thafs how Stanley H. Kaplan can help. 
The Kaplan course teaches test-taking techniques, reviews course subjects, and increases the odds that you'll do the best yqucando. 
So if you've been out of 
school for a while and need a 
refresher, or even if you're fresh 
out ofcollege, do what over 1 
million students have done. 
Jake Kaplan. Why take l
a chance with your career? 
KAPLAN 
The worlds leading test prep organization.

APPhoto 
SOUTH BEND AREA 

Mr. October 
Stanley H. Kaplan Ed. Ctr. 

Thisphotoproves that October, andHalloween, are right around 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. 

the corner. Kenneth Maxwell, of Cape Elizabeth, Maine, says be 
South Bend, Indiana 46637 

nevermakes money on his 80-acre pumpkinpatch, butthe demand 
(219)' 272·4135 

for his big orange vegatables keeps him in the fields. 
..................................................
--.~ • •~ • • -.rrr•~~• r• • • •~ • • • r• • • -~~ • • • r• • • r• • r• • • • • •~ 
Viewpoint wants you! 
I 
Kr:vin Hoar 
Terry K.i~lstis 
Greg K.inzclm,an Terry Lynch Colleen Maloney 
Dave McCaw 
Mau Micros Yanita Mitchandani 
Allison Pivonka 
CarlPumam 
KtUySive John Stoepler 
MikeTarm Tom Varnum 
Peter Witty 
Eric Wold 
K.im Yuntovac 

Marykrgcr Barb Bolla Stacy Bonoanl 
lJam Brennan 
Molly Bunchac:U 
Shawn Bushway 
Tim Clark 
Pat Connors 
PatCuuck 
Tony DaWBOn 
Joe Dcplro 
MarkDrajen 
UsaEmlong 
Michael Famon 
Celeste Freind JohnGrillln Beth Healy 
The following people who signed up to work for The Observer's Viewpoint department, and anyone else interested in writing for Viewpoint this year, should attend a brief orientation meeting. The meeting is for ND-SMC students and will be held at the following location: 
The New Orleans Room LaFortune Student Center 1Veehnesday,Sept.18 Sp.m.
·············ri'..........,,....................J'.....................,......~ 
.......................................... 
E To i~N Foxiat SMC's E 
§ tlult nerliV«<: ! 
§kp, Ilk, lib, jb, ,,jt, mb i 
I 
Hen's to tiN BEST i 
SENIOR YEAREJ'ER E 
i............................!if!.~Jd 
Prints and Slides from the same roll 
Kodak MP film ... Eastman Kodak's proc...;onal color motion picture (MP) film now adapced.for otilluoe in 35mm cameno bv Seattle FilmWorb. lm micro-liM grain and rich color oaturation meet the exacting ltllndards ofthe movie indwtry. Shoot in low or bright liaht from ZOO ASA up to 1200 ASA. Get prinm ar tildes, or both. from the oame roD. Enjoy the very latest in ~ctechnoloav with 
oubotantialoavinp. 2274 
INTRODUCTORY OFFER 
0 Rush me two 20-expooure roU.. of your leading KODAK MP film­Kodak 524.,-(200 ASA). Enclosed ;.$2.00. I'd like robe able to get color prinm or slides (or both) from the same roll and experience the remukable venatility of thi& professional quality film. 
NAME_______________ 
ADD~------------­
CITY ________________ 
STATE nP______ 
Uaitoll ......-. 
Mall to: Seattle FdmWorb P.O. Box C·340S6 Seattlo, WA98124 
o1964 Sallie Fllm.Worb 
KodUSZi711arqllleftdu.:tan.rk ol dv e..m.n. Kodak Compmy. 

.-----------------------------------------------------------------------------~----------------~-------­
Accent 
Wednesday, September 18, 1985-page 5 
A parentS nightmare: the SMC panty raid 
Dave Dvorak 
features writer 
T 
he freshman's mother walked "Wonderful? You can't be down the dorm hallway serious. This is the most appalling towards me, looking concerned. thing I've ever heard ofll absolutely With Notre Dame's freshman will not have my Steven taking part orientation weekend coming to a in this ... this pagan event. I've close, she had just said goodbye to already told the rector." her only son. As she approached, I And what did the rector say? could tell something was really "He said there's not much he can 
bothering her. do." "Are you an upperclassman?" she That's right, ma'am. There isn't asked me. much that anybody can do. The Yes, ma'am. I'm a senior. Can I panty raid is governed by a power­help you with something? ful, inexplicable force that operates only once a year. Like a big magnet, "Yes. It's about my son Steven­it draws innocent freshman from he's a freshman." their dorms, from the library, from Don't be concerned, ma'am. It's a the basketball courts. They are temporary condition. powerless to resist. "No, there is something that's 
Before loQg, hundreds uponreally troubling me. I'm worried hundreds ofdazed freshman have 
about my boy." 
gathered into a giant crowd. The Let me guess · you don't like his confused look in their eyes givesroommate. 
way to one of mischief, one of "No, that's not it. We've met the devilish anticipation. Next thingroommate, a..~ well as his family. I'm you know, these once lamb-like sure he must be a fine boy. After all, gentlemen are stampeding across he ha..~ very nice parents." 
U.S. 31 on their way to Saint Mary's, So did AI Capone. But what's the screaming like a band ofhalf-crazed problem, ma'am? 
Indians. 
"Well, I've just heard about an ... 
"And once they get to Saint "And what might that be?" this panty raid have? What good ~/'Well, why doesn't the University an unspeakable activity that takes Mary's ... then what happens?" Well, you know ... silk panties, could my Steven possibly derive administration do something about place here every year, and I don't at 
Wei" that's where the SMC fresh­fancy lace brassieres, and ofcourse, from this?" it?" 
all like the sound of it." 
man come into play. The girls hang other exotic lingerie accessories Well, if he's aggressive and if he Believe me, ma'am, they've tried. 
If you're talking about Mexican from their upper-story windows, that I would probably need has a pretty good venical jump, They've tried to outlaw it, to con­night at the dining hall, I can tell dangling their undergarments and diagrams to describe. he'll probably get himself a couple demn It, to declare it immoral and you right now that it's really not dropping them to the clamoring "I always thought that Saint ofnice panties out of it. They make unconstitutional. But there's no that bad. I've survived three of mobs of Notre Dame men below. Mary's girls were supposed to be great wall hangings -do you really way they can stop it. They'd be 
them, though each time my "Undergarments? How awful! nice, the kind that my Steven might think that his Texas Instruments better off trying to abolish the roommates have made me sleep in Why can't they drop something else one day marry." poster is going to stay on the wall Notre Dame fight song. the hallway. -like candy or balloons? Wouldn't very long? "This Is truly a parent's
They're not as nice as you might 
"No, that's not what I mean. It's that be just as much fun?" What's more, the girls write nightmare. I've spent the last 20
think, ma'am. You should see those 
something much more serious. No, ma'am. You see, this whole messages on the panties, along with years ofmy life trying to raise my
girls on the night of the panty raid. 
They call it ... I'm not even sure if I thing is based on tradition. Do you their names and phone numbers. If son properly, and now he's going to
They're ruthless. Some ofthem should say this out loud ... they call remember reading about the days the name is Roxanne or Bambi, you be involved in some senseless panty
actually tie their panties to a string it ... the 'panty raid.' " ofchivalry, when the damsel in can bet that it's only a pseudonym. raid."
before they toss them from their 
Why, ofcourse! 'lbe Wednesday distress would drop a silken hand­But if your son Steven dials some of
windows, only to dangle them justnight before the first home football kerchief to the valiant knight those phone numbers, he just might Look at it this way, ma'am. The
above the outstretched arms ofthe 
game ... That magical evening below? Well, the panty raid get himselfan SYR date out ofit. panty raid Is really quite harmless.
desperately groping Notre Dame 
when panties fall from the windows operates on that same principle. "What does SYR stand for?" In fact, it's the ideal social event. It 
men below. They love teasing those ofSaint Mary's dorms like autumn Ever since Kleenex was invented, Urn ... let's discuss that some encourages mass panlclpation by
poor guys.
leaves from trees . and in a wider though, very few Saint Mary's girls other time. the freshman ofboth Notre Dame variety ofcolors. What a wonderful have owned silken handkerchiefs. Maybe they are nice girls, ma'am, "Maybe I'm not being very open­and Saint Mary's. It breaks the ice Notre Dame tradition! So they use the nex~ best thing. but the panty raid sure brings out minded about this, but all I know is between the sexes without break· 
the worst In them. As for whether that my husband and I are paying 1 0 ing parietals-the guys aren't those girls are available for mar­grand a year to give Steven a good allowed in the dorms. Best ofall, it riage, well ... it's been rumored Catholic education, and suddenly I doesn't even violate the alcohol 
that the thought has crossed many find out that this type ofhedonistic policy. Take my word for it, ma'am · of their minds. activity is being permitted here." the panty raid is nmhing but an "But what practical value does It's not permitted. It's tolerated. evening ofgood clean fun. 
Unknown author ntakes the grade 


Mary Jacoby 
Book review 


Vlctqry Over Japan 
Ellen Gilchrist Little, Brown and Company, $7.95, 
2npages 

L
ost your faith in short stories? Then pick up a copy of Ellen Gilchrist's collection, "Victory Over Japan," to restore your confidence in the genre. 
Each one ofGilchrist's interr­
elated stories in this book, winner 
ofthe 1984 American Book Award 
for Fiction, reads with the con­
tinuity ofa novel but ends with the 
emofronal punch essential to a good 
short story. 
Ifyou've never heard ofEllen 
Gilchrist, don't worry. I hadn't 
either until this summer when she 
made some remarks, which many 
people in the state considered 
controversial, at the 1985 Arkansas 
Governor's School for the Gifted 
and Talented. 
For weeks the battle over her intentions was waged through newspaper letters to the editor. What was it exactly that she said? Gilchrist described an incident when, In protest ofthe Vietnam war, her son had cut up an American flag and made a pair of pants out if it. Her message was that there comes a time when children need to "forget" their parents and do their own thing. 
The tl}eme of growing into in­dependence runs throughout Gilchrist's stories. And she applies this struggle for self-definition not only through adolescent characters but also through adults. 
Whereas many ofthe good people of the state ofArkansa..'l became indignant over Gilchrist's statement, interpreting it to mean "disregard your parents and do what you want," it becomes clear in her writing that she is concerned with describing the troubles bet­ween parent and child a..'i both grow older and change. This theme is dominant in the first section of stories focusing on one strong· willed character, Rhoda, as she grows from a third-grader into an adult woman. 
Most of the stories are centered around New Orleans, where Gilchrist lives when she is not teaching at the University of Arkansas in Fayettville. A strong Southern flavor is always evident, especially in the section "Crystal," in which Gilchrist weaves a near­tragic and often comical tale ofa spoiled Southern beauty who marries for money into New Or· leans high society. 
For interesting character studies and above all, for good fiction reading, Gilchrist's "Victory Over Japan" is an unexpected winner. 


--~-----~-----~ 
------~---~---­
View~_o__i_n__t_____________w_e_d_n_es_d_a_y._s_e_p_te_m_b_e_r_l_s_.-~9_s_s_-_p_a_ge-6 
Communication at university must remain open 
Many people say the university exists as an ivory tower, a place wherein reality, and the happenings of the real world never protrude. 
·This view of college life contradicts what the university should stand for. In fact, the univer­sity setting is one of the few places where reality in its highest aspect is regularly chal­lenged. 
Steve Safranek 
view from the limb 
The common distinction made between the university and the real world is usually upon conventional lines. First, students are seen as persons without financial respon­sibility. Consequently, they do not have the worries or concerns of raising a family and caring for a home. Because of this lack of responsibility, students are seen as a class that only concerns itselfwith academics, social ac­tivities and idealistic talk. 
Although students are not seen as practical or realistic, their life is normally envied by the working person. Parents tell their children, "these are the best years of your life." And every football season, countless parents troop back to Notre Dame and various alma maters to relive their college days. Some ofthose who have recently entered the rank ofmiddle class Americans will say, "Oh, being a student was fun, but now it's nice to ltave money in my pocket." Rarely, ever so rarely, do those who return talk about their job, how interesting it is, or how much they enjoy the challenges of their new environment. Usually the bottom line is, "And the pay is good." 
Smdents are a privileged class. Rather than attending cocktail parties at the office where the central subjects ofconversation are trivial at best and scandalous at worst, they are able to engage in dialogue about fundamental ideas. In the classrooms the students are chal­lenged to learn their subjects and learn to think. So too, in the social environment the student finds himself confronted with a slew of dilemmas that he or she never before has confronted. A student has to make choices with regard to friendships, moral actions, the career he or she will pursue and how or if he or she will worship his or her god. Moreover, against those who say that a student's world is untroubled by reality, many events on campus serve as a retort. Kevin Hurley's recent acci­dent, countless shunned paramours, students who have flunked out of school and the in­numerable students who marry shortly after graduation testify to the concerns ofstudents as being as important as any confronted anywhere. 
The university setting is radically different 
from the common world in one respect. The 
university provides a setting where ideas are 
regularly and frequently exchanged on an in­
tellectual level. 

The free exchange of ideas can, however, be blunted. Although the circulation of ideas can be stunted in various ways (muzzling the press, selective choice of speakers at as­semblies, etc.), the argument ad hominem is the most invidious. All other forms ofcensor­ship ;u-e based upon a principle. If we do not let racists speak, we do so because we dis­agree with their fundamental ideas. We are only incidentally punishing the person ~Vho promotes the ideas. 
But arguments ad hominem attempt to avoid the issue and divert our attention to a person. When we were children, our parents reprimanded us in some way when we started calling other children, often our brothers and sisters, names. Most of us outgrew those chil­dish ways. Today, various governments use the same technique ofargument by imprison­ing those who speak against them. (This is most notable now in South Africa.) Instances of such activity is even present in many stu­dent arenas today. An instance can be found in some of the responses to my article on South Africa. Ann Pettifer (Professor Peter Walshe's wife) used such labels as "right wingery" to characterize my stance. One could respond just as easily that she only responded to my article because its content challenged her husband's earlier article in The Observer. Another student labeled me as being for apar­theid -a racist. A charge so ludicrous is beneath response. Nevertheless, such com­ments only avoid the issue and generate heat, not light. P<;rhaps the most ironic aspect of these arguments ad hominem is that they came from people who seem to champion free speech and free thought. 
The university is capable of being a place where the free exchange ofideas can occur. If the university is to be a place where ideas can be freely exchanged and where students can mature, those who address students must present issues for students to reason over. They must do so because students will con­tinue to confront new ideas. When they do so, they can either conventionally apply the things they have been taught, or they can use their skills and principles to apply that which is good and true of what they have learned. If they choose the latter alternative, the world may be improved. But if they choose the former alternative, the world will universally continue to be a playground where adults call each other names. It will continue to be a place where truly, one's college days are the best days ofone's life. 
Steve Safranek is a second-year law stu­dent and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
RASTA is a way to stay aware of world hunger 
In 1968 people started dying by the mil­lions in Sub-Saharan Africa when a severe drought struck. The hunger hasn't stopped. In Sudan alone, an estimated 2.8-3.8 million people are starving. 
Cathy Ann Reynolds 
guest column 
Numerous causes ranging from soil erosion, weak political infrastructures, military oppression, and weak economic trade due to reliance on only a few products for import trade contribute to the slow beginnings and harsh failings in a developing Africa. 
There have been efforts to help African na­tions in the hunger crisis. Recently, in the U.S. and inothercountries a new ethic formed that "People are not allowed to starve." With this new ethic, S70 million, was raised by USA for Africa. And, along with funds and enthusiasm, Private and governmental agencies have responded with food aid. But that is not enough. 
Free food aid has its problems. When it is not rotting on the ports and does get to the relief camps, there are possible riots related to· the distribution of the food. When and if the food aid runs out, the refugees must still find further assistance. There is also a disruption in 
\\111tH ~ Bf MSMilm Sf CASU\l ft? A.AIDS 8. NOS ~DUmA 

Doonesbury 
the balance oftrade betweenfarmers, because the food is in the hands ofthe government and organizations rather than the farmers. In the long run direct food aid does not help those Africans resolve their agricultural problems nor help them to act independently. 
Organizations need to further research agricultural and technological advances that will work efficiently in Africa's Sub-Saharan regions. A recent FAO study indicates that Et­hiopia will only be able to feed thirty-six per­cent of its population by the year 2000 if current agricultural practices are continued. According to the director of the African studies program at Georgetown University in D.C., "Agricultural research has not yet produced a satisfactory technical package which would permit African farmers to ex­pand their agricultural productivity as Asian 
farmers have. There has been no Green Revolution yet for Africa's major crops -sor­ghum, millet, roots, and tubers -and none ap­pears imminent." 
There are organizations doing research for Africa's development such as the FAO (for ir­rigation schemes and the like ), the World Bank (for long-term development of all kinds), the International Fund for Agricultural Development (for peasant farmers), UNICEF (child survival and development), the Office of Emergency Operations in Africa (co­ordinating some of those agencies ),and African based agencies like the International Institute ofTropical Agriculture( liTA). 
If these organizations continue researching and resolving agricultural problems, Sub­Saharan Africa could at least produce enough to promote self-sufficiency. Africa itself is endowed with enormous natural resources, organic and inorganic, and is twice the size of the U.S. Africa once showed its potential for 
Garry Trudeau 
self-sufficiency and development. In fact in 
the flrst decade of independence, agricultural 
production in Africa rose by 2 percent per 
year, outpacing the growth in population. In a 
larger and more recent scope Asian countries 
,such as India, have begun rising above starva­
tion and burgeoning population growth; 
Africa can too. 
Even with agencies willing to research ways for a self-sufficient Africa and with public en­thusiasm raised for the cause, a crucial factor .remains. Who will fund these research agencies? Without sustained support of these 
oganizations research progress in Africa looks 
grim. 
RASTA, Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's Rally 
Against Starvation organization, was formed 
last year in the response to the tragic hunger 
crisis. RASTA addressed the issue of famine 
and drought by pooling the resources and 
good fortune of the South Bend community 
together. RASTA raised S4000 that went 
directly to Ethiopia through Unicef, .Oxfam, 
and Care. 
RASTA now realizes the importance ofsup­
porting monetarily the research and develop­
ment of Africa. By organizing fund-raising 
events RASTA will provide an opportunity for 
this whole community to contribute to those 
who are less fortunate than we are. 
RASTA itself is made up ofleadership, vision 
and action. There are people from the Notre 
Dame, Saint Mary's and the South Bend com­
munity who· identify with these qualities. 
Tonight at 6:30 in the Center for Social Con­
cerns those wishing to take action are 
welcome to join RASTA. 
Catherine Ann Reynolds is a senior English Writing major at Saint Mary's Col­lege. 
7HAT'S7Hc 
YOU'lJ THINK 
THcWVc 8.0., IT's

5TAR!IXJN'T AN[) 
A GUYWHO OH..I.OOK.. 
/A/CARS ;f3(X) mm'5 TH& 
INTE3R&ST A /AJHOU3

CIJ'51N 7HAT5 
5(}175 IAJ())UJ 5HOW'5 WVC 
15A CAR? N&WCON­

MIAMI H15PAI<T­
CEPT HtRE!

807H8R70 INT&R£ST..
5HAV82 NER.,TU885' 
5HA~. 
/_ I
I 

I
I~ 
Quote of the day 
"To a man with an empty stomach food is God." 
Mohandes Karamchand Gandhi 
( 1869-19480 



VieWP-Oint Wednesday, September 18, 1985-page 7 
Sports act as bonding agent among many people 
P.O. BoxQ 

Leary should have at least been listened to 
Dear Editor: 
In la.~t Thursday's inside column, Mary Healy criticized Notre Dame for inviting t.he notorious Timothy teary to speak here. 
Here is a short list ofpeople who were con­
. sidered "notorious" by right-thinking people like you. Maybe you have heard of some of them: 
• 
Galileo Galilei 

• 
Nicholas Copernicus 

• 
Martin Luther 

• 
John the Baptist 

• 
Jesus Christ 


Perhaps Timothy Leary is not your cup of tea, but you should have at least encouraged pt·ople to listen to him, and gone yourself. Who knows? Maybe we all could learn some­thing. 
Tim VerHey Law Student 

Booing does nothing to help ND football team 
Dear Editor: 
I don't know how well the football team will do this year. My hopes, as usual, are for a very su<.·cessful sea.'«m. If this is not the case, however, I equally hope that I will not hear any students booing. As a subway alumnus, I thought that such an action by the students of Notre Dame would be impossible. It in no way matches with the great spirit that all of us out­siders attribute to Notre Dame. As far as I know, tht•re is only one animal that hisses. 
Booing hurts! I don't think that any athlete plays better because someone boos him or her. It hurts me when I hear it. I'm positive that when the breaks are the worst for Notre Dame, a quietly said Hail Mary would have a more welcome effect than the boos. 
Francis Paul Kaiser Southampton, Pa. 
Studying harder may be the answer to problem 
Dear Editor: 
We have a problem when professors try to achieve a proper balance between teaching and research, as Peter Horvath and others have pointed out. Sometimes they do less teaching and more research. There are lots of things we can propose as solutions, but I'd like to suggest that we try the simplest one first: study harder. Hasn't that ever occurred to anyone before? 
Richard Flint Notre Dame graduate student 
Safety in boxing is no worse than other sports 
Dear Editor: 
Nor,ice Boxing Tournament workouts will be at 4:00 in the boxing room in the ACC. Anyone who wishes to learn basic boxing skills, prepare for the Bengal Bouts orjustget into top condition is invited to attend. Up­perclassmen with experience are invited to workout, although they will be excluded fmm the novice tournament. 
A friend from my hall read this in the Sports Briefs and, knowing that I am an officer ofThe Notre Dame Boxing Club, asked me, "Why Boxing? Why don't you go out for a safer sport?" I had to think for about two secorids before coming up with some reasons for We do it for fun, and not for a living. Every precaution is taken for the boxers, ranging , from such obvious things as head gear, mouth pieces, and more padding in the gloves to less noticable things such as putting people of comparable ability in the ring together. A beginning boxer will never face anyone with 
more experience. This is one reason why the Bengal Bouts are so safe, because every boxer has equal training. In three years ofathletics at Notre Dame, I have seen people get injured more seriously and more frequently in such "safe" sports as basketball and raquetball, not to mention the injuries received in sports such as football and wrestling. We box be· cause we enjoy it, the last thing we wam is an injury. 
Kevin O'Shea Holy Cross Hall 

As long as I have been old enough to realize that the world of sports exists, I have been an apathetic resister·. I never understood why Mom was so eager to waste an entire Sunday afternoon going to a Tiger's game, or why Uncle Billy sat tlxed to the tube on Thanksgiv­ing when he could have been wrestling with his 14 nieces and nephews. Yes, I am guilty of easily exl·hanging the terms "homerun" for "touchdown" when refering to soccer. In hiW1 
jeanne Grammens guest column 
school, I resented the money pumped into football while academic areas, such as the debate team, were in need of funds. When l"onsidering colleges, Saint Mary's was my first choice not because of Notre Dame football, but because it was a good academic and Cat· holic school. Following my friends' example, I purchased my Notre Dame football tickets, all tht• while thinking t>f the clothes that SO dol· Iars could buy. It was always exciting to go to the pep rallies and the pre-game tailgaters, but I always lost the excitement as I stood on my 
seat, squinting at the tleld. 
Thi~ weekend at Michigan changed my beliefs. The minute I walked into the Michigan bar, Dooley's, I l"ould sense an Irish electricity. I could not believe so many stu­dents and alumni had traveled four hours to watch· the first Notre Dame game of the seasoh. After the bar closed, people wandered arount\ the· street, and before I realized what was happening, Iwas singing the "Notre Dame Victory March" with the crowd, while NOTRE DAME cheers were echoing everywhere. 
The next day at the game the Irish fans wore their green proudly. It was great to see so much green amongst the blue-n-gold. During the game, the NOTRE DAME fans were the only ones standing. The first half was OK, Notre Dame scored frrst, and were expected to come back strong in the second half. The second half proved to be disastrous. The Irish fans seemed to turn a sickly color of green as the clock ticked away. A quiet depression settled over the NOTRE DAME section of the Michigan stadium as the time ran out. Quite frankly, I was afraid these sports fanatics would be suicidal; but theh something similar to Christmas morning in Who-Ville happened. One student said, as we trooped out of the stadium, "Well, it's only the first game of the season." Not one student covered up their Notre Dame attire as we left the area. Another fan said, as we drove away, "What can you ex· pect when we have the toughest football season in the country?" At the McDonalds, just 
outside of Ann Arbor, someone said, "I don't think a I(). I record is bad at all." 
The optimism of these people amazed me. It was then that it hit me. The love and devo· tion of these Irish fans was not necessarily all about "off-sides" or specific plays, or even touchdowns. The love ofsports is about some· thing much bigger. It is about the human need to belong to something · to share common bonds · to have a common faith in something. Notre Dame football is something that binds millions of people across the country and across the world. The fans' faith and devotion is magnificent. It wasn't the Irish who were leaving the Michigan stadium before the clock ran out. They stuck it out to the last second. Even after the loss they still had faith and hope. They got strength from each other's faith. 
As I realize the spirit that exists in the world of sports, I can hardly contain the excitement in the thought that this faith could be applied to other areas as well. Notre Dame football is not the only bond we share. There is a very powerful bond ofChristianity alive in the Irish fans. Seeing the energy and faith alive in the world ofsports, made me see the potential ac­tion that could reflect our "other bond." Notre Dame/Saint Mary's students and alumnae have the resources, the energy and the faith to change a lot of wrongs in this world. There are a lot of hungry, discriminated-against, lonely, people out there, suffering from a lack of justice. Pes· simists also says, "the Irish are not going to make it to a decent bowl game this year." The fans overcame the pessimism that could have resulted from the team's performance Satur· day. We have the untapped resources to overcome the pessimism that exists in the world of those who do not know how to help themselves. Christ would smile if the football fans of today became the social justice ac­tivators of tomorrow. Both are two damn good causes. 
jeanne Grammens is a senior g()flernment and communications major at Saint Mary's. 

boxing. Number one, and most importam to me, is that by fighting in the Bengal Bouts in March, I am using the gifts that I was given to help less fortunate people. For over 50 years men from Notre Dame have been climbing into the ring so money could be sent to the Holy Cross Brothers. As Dominic Napolitano has said "Strong Bodies Fight So That Weak Bodies May Be Nourished." Some people donate time to Logan Center, I box for charity. But helping people is not the only benefit Iget from boxing. My self-confidence has in­creased tremendously, I am in the best shape 
ofmy life and I have met more people through boxing than through any other activity. 
The safety of boxing in recent years ha.~ received much attention, but boxing at Notre Dame is a bit different than boxing in general. 
Editorial Board Operations Board 
--r-r:be-Ob.se~~er ----­
--J.-= . ---.L-=Y=-~ --­Editor-in-Chief ...................... ...... Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager... ..... David Stephenitch 
P. 0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (21 9) 239-5303 
Managing Editor............ . ............ Amy Stephan Controller ....... . ...... Wilham J. Highducheck News Editor ................................... Keith Harrison Jr Advertising Manager .... Jim Hagan The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Systems Manager ............ .Mark B. Johnson Notre Dame du Lac and Sarnt Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Production Manager.. . .... John A. Mennell 
strat1on of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pas-
Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb . Unsigned editorials represent the oprnion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healyletters and the lllSide Column present the views of their authors. Column space is Viewpoint Editor .................................... Joe Murphy to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches , through letters, is encouraged. Copy Chief .............................................. Frank Upo Founded November 3, 1966 

r-------~-------------------~-­
-----------------------------------------------, 
Wednesday, Sept~mber 18, 1985-pagf 8 
The Obsen•er Noire Dame office. lot·aled on 1he lhird floor of Lafortune SIUdenl Cemer. at·~epls dassified advertising from 9 a.m. unlil -1 p.m.. ~onday lhrough Friday. The Obsen•er Saini ~an··s office. I<Kaled on 11ie lhird floor of Haggar College Cemer. accepls dassifit·ds from 12:.~0 p.m. umil' p.m.. Mon· day !hough Friday. Deadline for nexl·day dassifit:d~ is .~ p.m. All dassifkds mus1 ht: prepaid. eilher in person or hy mail. Charge is I 0 cents pt:r five charat··
Classifieds 
lers r da 
FurniShed Houee Cloae to Campus • 6 I badly need G.A.'1 for all home gamu. 
N. Balli rMHy enjoyed nibbling on yourbdrm, 2 balhl Call2n-3461 
Call Marty at 1050. 

cool<ies Monday evening in the librwy,
NOTICES TICKETS PERSONALS·
································································ 
they-every IUty. J.R. . HELP! Need 2 GAs & 2 atudent tix forLUXURY TOWNHOUH available to 
ah.,e with one or two roomrnatea,TYPING AVAILABLE preftnbly female. VERY REASONABLE. I need 2 and/or 4 GA'1Ior Michigan State ARMY game. Call Julie 3196 The aimpleet questions .,. the moat SARA YOU ARE SOOOO SPECIAL 287--4082 u aoon u poeaibte. Call Mike at 1806 
Call2n·2364 profound. Where were you born? Where 
I NEED 6 GA'S & 2 STUD. TIX FOR

...........................................; .................... Is your home? Where .,e you Hey PTA! To make it short and simple: SEEKING FEMALE ROOMMATE AT going?What .,e you doing? Your info i1 totally incorrect. JJL. 
MICH. ST .• PLEASE HELP ME!! I'LL BE KILLED IF I DON'T PULL THROUGH!!

TYPING CAU. CHIQ»4-8117 NOTIIE DAilE APTI. CLOIE TO UNCU! Mil WANTS YOUIII Think about th-once in a whne, and 
CALLPATAT3423.

CAIIPUI, INEXPENSIVE. CAU. MIC­To Give Up Soma Army O.A..'a watch your anawera change. PLEASE HELP ME ST. ANTHONY! 
HELE AT 28W710. Be All You Can Be • Rich.,d Bach,/luaions.SISTER FROM MEMPHIS RIDING UP
And Call Sammy a120n or 2078 BREAK! Need ride,riders to ProvidenceWordproceuing (We Dflercuh, experience, and travel op­FOR OLE MISS GAME ... THIS IS HER It OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. R.I. or nearby.,.... Muat leave 10111 or Call Dolores 2n·6045 portunities.) FIRST NOTRE DAME HOME GAME ... CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N., 1 ew1y Friday. Cali·Antuco,lafe.283-344 7. 2 FMS NEED 3RD $100 MOll UTIL 233-SHE'S 18... AND SHE'S READY. WILL 
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 7841 DO ANYTHING FOR STUDENT TICKET, 
ODIN II COlliNG Ill
BUSINESS EXPRESS, INC. EVEN A G.A. WOULD MAKE HER WHAT DO KATIE MULLANEY AND Worclpr~ng and typing 
GRAD ROOM;CLOSE I DESPERATELY NEED MANY MSU HAPPY. CALL3457 AND ASK FOR HER ELEPHANTS HAVE IN COMMON? 272..a827 SICK BIG BROTHER. THEY WERE SATISFIED BY PEANUTS. 
OUIET;$100/M0.;2n·2045. TICKETS CALL MIKE 1476 
And on the eighth day, God called himsell EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL NEED Mich. State or Almy GA's. Call Dan PLEASE. I'M DESPERATE! IT'S MY 
HEY RICHARD cttANIUIIIII BIRTHDAY ON THE 2111 • SELL ME 6 
Frank. MRS. COKER, 233-7009 Stock 272·6298 or 23g..7180
MICH. ST. G.A.'S AND YOU'LL BE 
The entire city of Piqua, Ohio ie coming
WANTED alsi:;:·ii.~'k;;;;·~~··i'di~i..i~-~~~·;;;;,··~~-~;;:
INVITED TO THE PARTY!! PLEASE 
out to see NO play Michigan Slate. They
need mich. state student tix. wiH trade ._, purdue,.,my. miN., & lau C8ll jeff 232· ara willing to trade in their whole co/lee·
typing • cell andrea, 2U-4011 • you a-edible girl go. Or .,e you just blind 
CALL ANNE 284·5048 
4578, after midnight lion of Slim Whitman albuma to buy tick· ;;!;;;·'iiiiii~iii-';;·;;v···2;·~i-!!,·,·,·;;;iii ..~··;u
Need ride to O.yton any weekend. Call I NEED TIXS FOR MICH ST & Btll. Pleae help them. //'a not often these Maria4174. PURDUE.272·6306
UFE IN THE SPIRJ'T SEMINAR olfered MED coU)d see ·you alter tonight.
people gel out of Ohio.
by the Notre Dame Chariamatic Prayer NEED 1 STUDENT MSU TICKET 2n· Definitely a "free" radiC8l "*" of bram
Call Amy a123g..5303 or 272·9519.
Group for al intereeted in opering their 4548 cella (among other thing~) • \onight and
Domino's Pizza hu opening~ for part 2 STU. FTBL TIC BOOKLETS. BEST OF· livee to the action evening~ beginning legally evermore. Do it up, Babe' Con. 
time delivery per.ons. Mu1t be at !Mit 18 FER. CRAIG 3380 OR BETH 284·5200. 
OH PLEASE, OH PLEASE, OH PLEASE y&enl old, own cer, and have valid in-­Electrolyel1 Dermatologist approved
Sept. 19. For more information C8ll 23g.. .............................................~ .. 
I NEED 2 UIC OA'I aurance. Hourly wage plu1 cornmillllion. Grad.Kree N.Y. Sterilized, latest equip­
7651. HAPPY 8-0AY T J WISH HIM A GOOD 
HELP! NEED MICH. ST. TICKETS BAD; CALL 2841 PLEASEm DAY AT 2136. YOUR BUDDIES. THE
Apply in person at 816 Portage Ave. or CALL JOHN 1601 rnent,atudent rates. Ladies only. Day-eve.
Club ltalia preeenl8 FROSH STUDS! 
1835 South Band Ave. 
291·9613CANOLI SALE!!! 
NEED 3 USC OR 4 MISS. GA'S FOR FIELDHOUSE MALL 
H-humiliating! Due to circumstances

WANTED:UPPERCLASSMEN TC CUTE IRISH PRIESTS WILL PAY ANY and BABYSIT 3MTH OLD INFANT IN MY Attantlon Francophonea et Fra.,..
beyond our control we (gup!) we need 4 PRICE! CALL MARY 284·5442 MSU licketa. Call Stave or Tony 234·

LEMANS HAll at SMC HOME.KNOLLWOOD AREA. 15-20 FREIHIIEN ICHIIUCKS IN ROOMS cophl...... NEED 3 GA TIX TO ANY HOME GAME 
Italian Club members pi-conltlct HAS/WEEK. CALL FOR INTERVIEW: 7421. 201, 338, 301, 3158, 448, 426 1111 II y aura una reunion du carcta Fran-­Fred(1581) or Lan(1699) concerning 2n·5450. CALL STEPH 3534 BEWARE OF ODIN call a partir de19:30 ce jaudi soir dans le lridaya activities. petit theatre a Ia Fortune. Venaz tous a
Need five (5) GAs lor Army game. Call Rod at 1768. 

J()IIS.JOBS.JOBS.JOBS PART· TIME. I WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR 3 ARMY Need two MSU tickeltl. Can trade U.S.C. cette premiere reunion. SaJut! ON CAMPUS NEED PHONE CALLERS GA'S OR 4 LSU GA'S CALL STEVE AT or Army tickets or money. Call John at TO CALL SMC ALUMNAE FOR Attantlon all Francophonea and F,.....
Uatan folks. I wouldn't want you to think

17330R 1757 1126 FUNDRAISING CAMPAIGN. SEE coPhl...... The C8rcla Francala is hos· 
thil ia importantlo me, but I wiN be killed ff I 
don't get another student ticket to Mich St. 
LOST/FOUND I 

MARTHA HEWITI IN ROOM 303. HCC. ting its firat get together at 7:30 pm this
I need Mich. St. tix cell Stan 2341 NEED CLERICAL HELP, TOO!! ALEXANDER THE GREAT, PETER Thuraday in the LaFortune little Theatre.
WiH gladly trade USC ticket. Tom-2183 NEED 7 MSU TIX. 284·4048 TCHAIKOVIKY, WILLA CATHER, IT. Be sure notlo mia6 thislirat meeting ... and LOST: Gold/lilver imitation Rolex watch, AEUIED OF RIEVAUU AND WALT bring your lrienda. Salut! 
HELP! I DESPERATELY NEED 4 TICK· ETS TO THE MSU GAME. IF YOU HAVE THEM, CALL JERRY AT 1654 OR 

loet Sat. night(the 7th) at either Campus 2118U TICKETS You got 'em. I need 'em. WHITMAN WERE. IF YOU ARE TOO, 
vi-. St.Louia St.. or D-6. It -a very Group (10 or more people) wanted for Wil pay$. Call Mike at 3347. STU or GA. CONTACT OAYI I LE~ANI AT TO WHOEVER NOW POSESSES MY spacial gift, PLEASE HELP ME OUT! ND/IIIC, BOX 114, NOTIIE SEIKO QUARTZ WATCH: I HOPE IT
TERRY AT1687. MONEY IS NO CJ6.

fund railing. All supplies provided. Very P.0. 
JECT!

R-d offered. pi-call Jim at 3649 f-houra required. Call 31 g..363--7132. need 2·3 tix for mich. st. C8ll Pat 3n9 DAilE, IN 415541 FOil CONFIDENTIAL BECOMES AS IMPORTANT TO YOU AS (416 Moni-y). THANKS!!! INFOfiiiATION, OfiQANIZATIONAL IT WAS TO ME' Still Hoping, (3810) NEED MICH. ST. TIX, CALL MIKE AT
Desperately need 4 Michigan Stete & 4 need MSU tix $$call John at 1845 MEETING lOON. Penn State GA'a: Call Joe 1548
LOST: BENNETION RUGBY SHIRT, 288·5355 SENIOR. CLASS ADVISORY COUNCIL Blue and White. Laundry tag with no. MEETING TONIGHT 7PM 122 HAYES.
YOU'RE GOING TO DIE somedey, but 101n and two small otains on front. If HEALY NEW MEM8EAS WELCOME.
I NEED 3 MICH. ST. TICKETS. $$$$Two ARMY G.A.s desperately needed ! right now I need 2 MSU GA'a. If you can 

found pleua call Rick at 272-8588. PLEASE CALL SCOTI AT 272·9518. SEEKING LOVE-Wanted: A bipolar disor· ...................-...........
Will pay big$$$ and USC Tix JOHN 3691 help, call Rob at 288--4760. 
der woman to be an insufficient mother to SENIOfll! LAST CHANCE'!!SENIOR IN· REWARD!!!!! LOST TIGER'S EYE and FORMAL REGISTRATION AND
I'd rather die than let my friends miN the Ed's children so he can be the buffer fat· NEED RIDE TO U OF ILL. OR IN· I neacl 4 tlckata for ND-USC. Call Mark M.S.U. game.lf you have GAs, C8ll Dan at 
GOLD BEADED BRACELET! OF GREAT her. TICKETS FOR EVENTS AT
DIANAPOLIS AREA ANY WEEKEND. at 21111-8880. 
4074.

SENTIMENTAL VALUE TO ME!!!! IF LAFORTUNE INFO DESK TONIGHT &­
CALL KATHY 284·4395 
FOUND, PLEASE CALL STEPHANIE AT Dear Stuh, Here are a few memories for 8PM. LAST CHANCE SENIORS! 
Wanted, 2 Mich State Tix! Call Kathy, 
1327. THANKS!! I need one student ticket for M.S.U. Call your 21st: PhiDattsfl3 Rock Siesta Key
3690 

NEED RIDE TO ST. LOUIS ON 9/27 • Miriamat4174. Magic Moment Happy Hour Farm Party sENIOR Cus·s····EOCKTAIL····;;ARTY 9/29. CALL MONICA 284-5171. Need one MICH. ST. STUDENT TICKET. 
LOST: A GOLD CHAIN ON THURSDAY, Chicagoman Little 50Q..How did your SEPT.26 WATCH FOR DETAILS! SEPTEMBER 12. GREAT SENTIMEN· NEED 2 GA & 1 STU FOR MSU·DAN ahoee end up in the cold dorm? Tonio &
JOE2361 TAL VALUEPLEASECALLPATAT 4364 1n2 Maurizio/ Eroa & Roberto So many ot· We want BOFA back. 
IF YOU KNOW WHERE IT IS. hera,too! Remember what happena to
OLD GIRLFRIEND WANTS TO GO TO MSU GAME • NEED 1 TICKET· TRADE their 21st-get ready to alert we'd never stay together over the newt,
WE NEED MICH ST TIX. CALL 2937 OR people on LOST on Greenfield 9/11. pr. of m.,/gray FOR SALE OR$$$ CALL28g..4191 praying! Happy Birthday' Chris we'd jull divide him like we would the
1062. 

rning shoee with my kaye inside! Can't af· ····················· ............................ plant ford the fine. if found pleua call 1040 Need two IISU tickets. Can trade U.S.C. KATHLEEN A. LAU IF YOU ARE GOING 
Sell ua MSU tix or suffer a curae on your mother's cooking.Call 3659 and ask for TO CELEBRATE YOUR 8­
·Thanks COMPUTER FOR SALE COMMODORE or Almy tickete or money. Call John at bratwurat 64K-keyboard, disk drive,printer Price 1126. IT WITH DIGNITY!
Mike or Eric. DAY,WOMAN.DO LOST: Man's brown rosary, poeaibly in or Negotiable--· call Meg at 2764. DON'T JUST CELEBRATE IT IN THE Kathy & Diane in Holy Cross Hall, we tried ,_CCE on Friday Sept 13. PI-call HELP! DESPERATELY NEED 2 GA'S LOU, ESPECIALLY AT "TEA TIME" YOU at Michigan but no luck leta gat in touch! 
DESPERATELY SEEKING IISU TICK· 

Bob at 233-2784. FOR SALE: AKAI HX-A3X TAPE DECK FOR LSU GAME CALL MIKE 2079 ETI IF YOU HAVE THEil, I WANT MIGHT AS WELL "CHOKE" YOURSELF Matt&Mike x3641 W/DBX ALMOST NEW. $120 OR BEST EATING SWEET AND SOUR CHICKEN .................................................................
THEil! PLEASE CALL CHRII, 211112 

LOST: GRAY JACKET. SOMEWHERE OFFER. CALL GEORGE AT 1554 BADLY NEED 3 GA'S FOR THE USC AIAP. I THANK YOU, IIY AIUNG ·RONALD REAGAN & MAGGIE Bomber,Muchas gracias para mi flor;me BETWEEN HURLEY AND LAFORTUNE. GRANDMOTHER THANKS YOU, TOO. THATCHER
GAME CALL MIKE 2079 encanta-Houaton KEY IN JACKET POCKET ON SILVER 
For Sale Stereo stand, n-, $75 RING. LOST 9/16. IF FOUND, PLEASE negotiable, C8ll Mark at 2450 or 23g..5303 PLEASE, PLEASE, PLEASE SELL ME 1etAnnual HAPN'N HOUSE ···Friday-
I HAVE 2 FARM-AID TIX FOR THIS CAll3865. WKND. BST OFFER CALL 233-6692 "Before the 1st Home Game Party" YOUR TICKETS: 2 sets of 2 GA's Call 
AFT11 Wed. Sept. 18 g..11pm REWARD! Gold colored Seiko Quartz Kevin W. at4103!!1 
RECLINER-EXCELLENT CONDITION· Featuring: "Cold Drinks" watch! PI-help me find it before I have NEED 2 GA'S FOR MSU. CALL BILL AT HCC Terrace 
5435 HELP!! I NEED 2 G.A. TICKETS FOR 
to tell my p.,enltl I loat their graduation 234·7421. If rain: HCC Parlour 
N.D. VI MSU. WILLING TO PAY BIG 
pr-nt Call Tom at 3810 or 622 Grace 
SELL AIRLINE TICKET for MALE BUCKS! CALL JEFF AT 233-9400 YOU IN '86. LOVE, LOUISE 
Thanks! I NEED 2 MICH ST TIX. CALL DAVE
Chicago-Edmonton 24 September DAYS/2n-6376 NIGHTS. 
1586

1.40pm AIR CANADA. What $oflera? SIIC FRESHMEN COUNCIL WAY TO GO LIZ MURPHY!!! A STAR 
Pater 23g..7820(day) 2n-1118(nite) SoCal SENIOR needs two USC tix for VOTEFOfl BORN!!! LOVE, MJ NfM!d MSU tix. Call Dave x1190 
SUSAN SPINOSA '78 CUTLASS BROUGHAM. loaded, Your only obligation in any lifetime is 
MOM and DAD! Andy 2109 
FOR RENT 
NEED 2 OR 4 GA'S FOR MICH. ST.

good condition. 23g..7584 daye; 61&-699--$$$ Need 2 MSU GA'a $$$Larry X11n be true to youraett. 7513 nights, uklor Bruce. MAHERN FOR SENATE! MAHERN FOR lleing true to anyone alae or
CALL 284--4408. 

I need 1 Michigan State student ticket. SENATE! else is not only impossible, but the mark 
NEED 2 OR 3 PURDUE GA'S CALL

student efficiency $125.and uti~ties near For Sale 1975 Honda, 2·door, 5-speed. Will trade for Southern Cal. student ticket, WANT TO HELP? CALL2587 a take mesaiah. 
GLORIA 284-4306. 

N.D. 2SS8505; 2594943 Call25&-5175. or wiH buy. Call Stacy 1370. • Richard Bach, Illusions. 
Sports Briefs 
The Notre Dame volleyball team lost to The grad touch football captains meeting will be 
Bowling Green yesterday, 4-15, 5· 15, 15-6, 5· 15. Zanette Bennett held tomorrow at 4 p.m. in the NVA office in the ACC. All captains had seven kills for the Irish, andJi1l Suglich had·12 digs. Notre Dame must attend. · The Obseroer now is 1 -4 on the season. · The Obseroer 
A pep rally is plannedfor Friday at 7 p.m. in Stepan 
In WOmen'S tenniS yesterday, the Notre Dame Var· Center. Featured speakers will be Head Coach Gerry Faust, sity defeated DePaul, 9·0, for its third clean sweep in as many out· defensive line coach Rick Lantz and defensive lineman Greg Din· ings. Saint Mary's lost to Goshen College, 5-4, on the road to drop to gens. · The Obseroer 1-4 on the season. · The Obseroer 
ND/SMC Gymnastics Club members must pick
The ND Rowing Club will be meeting tonight at up insurance forms as soon as possible at 302 Keenan, 253 7:30p.m. in room 123 ofNieuwland Hall. Both Novice and veteran Cavanaugh or 211 McCandless. · The Obseroer rowers should attend and bring proofofinsurance and checkbooks. · 
The Obseroer 

The Nl> Squash Club defeated Michigan last Satur­
The SMC basketball team wm hold a meeting 
day behind the strong play of Bill McCullough, Clifford Lichaytoo today at 4:30p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility for anyone who is 
and Allan Lin. · The Obseroer 
interested in trying out for the team. · The Obseroer 
The ND Windsurfing Club will be meeting Interhall officials are needed for football and 
soccer. For more information, contact the NVA office in the ACC.· ·
tomorow at 7:30p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theatre. Anyone who is interested may attend. · The Obseroer 
The Obseroer 
Howe gets.his release from Minnesota 
Allllociated Press 

MINNEAPOLIS -Relief pitcher Steve Howe, who missed the Min· nesota Twins' weekend series in Cleveland because of a recurrence of his cocaine addiction problems, requested and was granted his un· conditional release, the Twins said yesterday. 
"Steve will devote his immediate full attention to comple~e recovery from his personal problems," the team said. 
Howe, the 1980 National League Rookie of the Year with the Los An· geles Dodgers, was suspended for the 1984 season by former Commis· sioner Bowie Kuhn for violation of baseball's drug policies. 
Commissioner Peter Ueberroth had not made any ruling on Howe's status, Fox said. 

The Observer Wednesday, September 18, 1985-page 9 


IfElizabeth Barrett and Robert Browni~ had AT&T's 60%and40%discounts, itwould havebeen a terrible ~ lossfor English literature. 
RENT BY SEMESTER 
Color TV Microwave Ovens $70/semester $50I semester 
Color City 259-7661 
Banks 
continuedfrom page 12 
Banks, a psychology major, is a native of Hampton, Va. While playing for Hampton High School, He was the only player in Virginia high school history to named all­state two years in a row on both of­fense and defense by the Associated Press. While at Hampton, his teams won three straight Virginia AAA titles. Although recruited by many 
schools, Banks chose Notre Dame for more than just football. 
"Football will take care of itself," he explains. "I have to prepare for a life after football. A Notre Dame degree is very prestigous and opens a lot ofdoors." 
When he arrived at Notre Dame, Banks was listed as a defensive lineman, a position he played in high school until his senior year. When Kovaleski was injured, Banks played inside linebacker before moving to the outside position at the beginning oflast year. 
"I prefer playing outside, it fits my ability," Banks says. "Being up in a two-point stance allows me to see more and be more ofa factor. I hope to make more big plays this year, maybe cause or recover some fumbles or make a few intercep· tions." 
Harris sees positive signs for Banks' future. 
"If he strives to be the best he can be and continues to improve," says Harris, "who knows what the future could hold?" 

And of course, she wouldn't have had to restrict her feelings to a mere sonnets length, either. 
Mter all, you can always think of one more way to tell someone you love them when you're on the phone. 
Let us count the ways you can save. Just call weekends till 5pm Sundays, or from llpm to Bam, Sunday through Friday, and you'll save 60% off AThT's Day Rate on your state-to-state calls. 
Call between 5pm and llpm, Sunday through Friday, and you11 save 40% on your state-to-state calls. 
So when you're asked to choose a long distance company, choose AThT. Because with AThT's 60% and 40% discounts, you can satisfy your heart's desire without exhausting your means. 
Reach out and touch someone~ 

© 1985 AT&T Communications 

The Observer Wednesday, September 18, 1985'-page 10. 
Blue Jays, Yanks both lose 
Cards win, pick up game on Mets 
As8oclated Press 
PITI'SBURGH -Ozzie Smith hit a three-run homer and Cesar Cedeno and Willie McGee added two-run shots as the St. Louis Cardinals beat the Pittsburgh Pirates 10-4 last night to stretch their lead in the National League East to two games. 
Joaquin Andujar, 21-9, scattered 1 0 hits to win for the first time in five starts as the Cardinals captured their sixth straight game. The New York Mets, meanwhile, fell 5-l to the Philadelphia Phillies to fall two games back of the Cardinals. 
Smith hit his fifth homer of the season in the second inning after starter Bob Kipper, 0-1, gave up singles to Tito Landrum and Terry Pendleton. It was Smith's 12th career homer in 4,167 at-bats. 
Cedeno connected for his eighth of the season against Kipper in the fifth, scoring Tommy Herr, who had singled. It was Cedeno's fifth home run since he joined the Cardinals from the Cincinnati Reds onAug. 29. 
Phillies 5, Mets 1 

NEW YORK -Shane Rawley pitched a five-hitter, and Glenn Wil­son and Ozzie Virgil led the Philadel­phia Phillies to a 5-l victory last night over the New York Mets. 
Wilson had three hits and scored 
twice, and Virgil drove in three runs, 
two with his 19th homer of the 
season. 
Rawley, 12-7, struck out three and 
walked one in his sixth complete 
game of the season. The only run 
against Rawley, 6-1 since the All-Star 
break, came in the fourth inning on 
George Foster's RBI double. 
Virgil's homer came off Ed Lynch, 
_10-8, in the second inning after Wil­
son led off the inning with a single. 
Red Sox 6, Blue Jays 5 
BOSTON-Tony Armas drove in three unearned runs with a fifth­inning homer that broke a 3-3 tie and lifted the Boston Red Sox to a 6-5 victory over the Toronto Blue Jays last night. 
The Blue Jays maintained their five-game lead in the American League East over the New York Yankees, who lost to the Detroit Tigers. The Yankees' loss cut Toronto's magic number to 14. 
Trailing 3-2, Boston put runners on first and second in the fifth on a walk to Dwight Evans and a single by Wade Boggs. After two outs, Rich Gedman ripped a single to right field, scoring Evans with the tying run and sending Boggs to third. 
Jesse Barfield's throw was cut off by shortstop Tony Fernandez, who fired the ball to CliffJohnson at first as Gedman tried to scramble back to 
Baseball Standings 
AMERICAN LEAGUE  NATIONAL LEAGUE  
Eeet  Eeet  
w  L  Pet.  GB  w  L  PeL  GB  
Toronto  91  53  .632  - St. Louis  89  55  .618  
New York  86  58  .597  5  New York  87  57  .604  2  
a.ttimore  7766  .538  13.5  Montreal  77  67  .535  12  
Detroit  74  70  .514  17  Philadelphia  70  72  .493  18  
eo.ton  72  73  .497  19.5  Chicago  67  76  .469  21.5  
Milwaukee  63  80  .441  27.5  Pittaburgh  47  95  .331  41  
Cleveland  54  93  .367  38.5  w..t  
Wee!  Los Angeles  85  59  .590  
Kansas City  82  62  .569  - Cincinnati  7766  .538  7.5  
C&lifornia  80  64  .556  2  Houston  74  70  .514  11  
Chicago  74  69  .517  7.5  San Diego  72  72  .500  13  
Qaldtlnd  70  75  .483  12.5  Adanta  60  84  .417  25  
Seattle  66  76  .472  14  San Francisco  56  88  .389  29  
Minnesota  67  79  .459  16  
Texas  52  92  .361  30  
YNterdey'a RNulta  Y•terdey'a R•ulta  
Detroit 9, New York 1  Cincinnati 6, San Francisco 1  
Cleveland 15, Oakland 8  Chicago 3, Montreal 0  
Boaton 6, Toronto 5  Philadelphia 5, New York 1  
Baltimore 6, Milwaukee 0  St. Louis 10, Pittsburgh 4  
Minnesota 7, Texas 2  Houston 10, Atlanta 6  
Chicago 5, California 2  Los Angeles 7, San Diego 1  
Seattle 7, Kansas City 0  

ROBERTLEEfor hair 
Total Appearance Consultants offer Notre Dame and Saint Mary's the most progressive and sophisticated images availabl 
Robert Lee welcomes to his staff 
DAZZ AND JULIE 
(Formerly with Jan's Hair-Urn) 
with a 
207.Discount off all services with any stylist Offer good through Sat. Sept. 21 
234-6767 
the base. But Johnson dropped the ball as he applied the tag. 
Armas then blasted his 22nd homer of the year over the left-field fence, giving the Red Sox a 6-3 lead and chasing Dave Stieb, 13-11. 
Barfield added his 24th homer, a solo shot for Toronto, in the seventh and AI Oliver singled home a run in the eighth. 
Dennis "Oil Can" Boyd went 71-3 innings and raised his record to 14­11. 
Tigers.9, Yankees 1 
DETROIT -Darrell Evans hit two home runs while Kirk Gibson, Nel­son Simmons and Lou Whitaker each hit one to support a four-hitter by Dan Petry and Willie Hernandez as the Detroit Tigers beat New York 9­
1 last night, extending the Yankees' losing streak to five games. 
The Yankees matched their longest losing streak of the year. 
The five home runs were the most ever allowed in a single game by Yankee starter Ron Guidry, 19-6. His previous high was four homers against the Minnesota Twins on May 28, 1982. 
Petry, 1 5-11, who missed his two previous starts because of a sore right elbow, scattered four hits in the seven innings he worked. His only mistake was a homer to Don Mattingly leading off the fourth. 

SILK . DS ND APPAREL HEADQUARTERS Shorts, Tee-shirts, Sweats, Hats, Jac~ets  
25 /. OFF ALL NYLON JACKETS  
Complete Outfitters for Intramural Sport~ Football Shoes . · Soccer Equipment & Custom Uniforms (Umbro, Russell, and Others) Team Uniforms. All Soorts · ¥10 /.OFF WITH ND I.D. ·* Sr 23 & E~ison Rd. (Across From Kjng Cellar) 277-7284 10-8, Sat. I Sun 1-5  


II 
I 


THURS.-Attention Senior Class Mug Club. Bring Your Mug, all refills $1.00 !!!!! 
FR.l& SAT. -ALUMNI WEEKEND! Be At Alumni Senior Club along with our Alumni!! 


Corner of Ironwood and Edison (Formerly Shear Dimensions) FOR CLUB RENTALS CALL: BRYAN DEDRICK 283-1069 239-7521 



~--------------------------------------------------------------~ -----------------------­

'JI['~~C3L~----------------------------------------~--e•d•n•e•s•d-ay•'•S•e•p-te.m
..b•e•r•1•8•'•19·8--5·--p_a_g_e_l__l 
Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side 
II H().511/f£ CR/5/5 /MY ~S !NS1TNCT5 fiR€ nN&tJN&... 
L I M</~T f£577?11/N 
MYS6t.F.•• 
Zeto 

ACROSS 1 Musial 5 Old plane 9 Son of Jacob 
14 Moslem 
nobleman 15 Item for sale 16 Drop from 
the sky 17 Medieval 
soldier 19 Waste maker 20 Banking abbr. 21 Singer Paul 22 Plant treatise 23 Massage 24 Olddraft 
statu\ 25 Fashioned over 28 The chills 30 Comp.pt. 33 Driss shape 34 Sale phrase 35 Agnus­36 Instrumental· 
1st 38 Paranymph 41 Family men 42 Fla. county 44 Listened 45 Shade tree 46 Portion 47 Postprandial 
potion 48 Roman road 50 Curtain fabric 52 Marmalade tree 54 Follow 55 Enlisted men 58 Van Doren 59 Intermediary 61 Exams 62 Arrow polson 63 Palm tree 64 Civet's cousin 65 Rents 66 Door handle 
DOWN 1 Highway vehicle 
2 Funny money fighter 3 "-Mlsbe· havln'" 4 New Deal letters 
•I W/U. NOTE.XPLO/T 7Jifi HOSTA&€5 / I W/U NUT COVeR 111€' WRY /JY Mei?&IN& Wfllf IT/ I... I WIU. NOr 
RI/N IIMOK IN 1?118/V COMfeTtnV£ £XC£3SS .•. 
IT SEEMS TWtT BeeN SOME C~FUSION CNE"R HIS RJRCHAS£ CF MSU Tld<ETS ffi::lM YOU. YCIJ SEE", HE DtDN'r I<.NJW HE WAS S/8NIN6 /lWAY HIS 

..I ...I... 
SO WOOU> 'rOO E£ SO 
1<./ND AS TO R)~6ET 
THE" 'WHOLE OCAL'? 



C>t985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 

5 River of song Tuesday's Solution 
6 Arctic garment 7 Fleets 8-Plaines 9 One·seeded 
fruit 10 Portion 11 Farmer 12 Ms Kelt 13 Tltubate 18 Two·seater 22 Give shelter to 23 "Citizen-" 25 Mex. dance 26 Walt -Disney 27 Annapolis 
trainee 29 Scoff 31 Goatee 32 Boastful 
9/18/115
34 Literary 

collections 47 Newlyweds 56 "Othello" 37 Worship 49 Sheerllnen bad man 39 Hlgh·pltched 51 West Point man 57 Proud man 40 Group 52 Noxious air 59 Wire measure 43 Intend 53 Swiss river 60 Igloo man: 46 Abominate 55 FBI agent abbr. 
Gary Larson 
Kevin Walsh 


Campus 
•12:00 
P.M.-Lecture, "The Pastoral Letter on the Economy", Dr. Walter Block, Director The Centre for the Study of Economics and Religion, Dr. Charles Wilber, Chairman Department of Economics, Notre Dame, Room I 0 I Notre Dame Law School, Sponsored by The White Center on Law and Government 

•6:30 
P.M. -Academic, Notre Dame in Mexico Program, Dr. Maria Olivera-Williams and Dr. Michael Keen, University of Notre Dame, Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Center for Social Concerns and Foreign Study Programs 

•6:30 
P.M. · General Meeting, RASTA , Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by RASTA, New Members Welcome! 


•7:00 
P.M. · 9:00 P.M. -Workshop, Law School Personal Statement Workshop, Prof. Marullo, University of Notre Dame, library Auditorium, Sponsored by Notre Dame/St. Mary's Pre-Law Society, 

•7:00 
P.M. · Organizational Meeting, Anthropology Club, II6 O'Shaughnessy, Sponsored by Anthropology Club, Open to all majors and other interested persons 

•7:00 
P.M., 9:30 P.M., and 12:00 P.M. SAB Movie, "Yentl", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, SI.50 

•7:30 
P.M.· Meeting, Space Colonization and Industrializing the Moon, LaFortune Little Theater, Sponsored by L·5 Society 


Dinner Menus
9/18/85 
Notre Dame Meatloaf Manicotti Fettucini Club Bunwich ' 

TV Tonight 
16 MASH 
22 Three's Company 
16 Highway to Heaven 22 Stir Crazy 28 45/85 
16 Hell Town 
22 Charlie & Company 
34 The Abortion Battle 
22 George Burns' Comedy nesday 46 Renewed Mind 16 St. Elsewhere 22 The Equalizer 46 Lesea Alive 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 

Saint Mary's Turkey Cutlet with Parsley Sauce Filet of Fish Parisien Fresh Vegetable Omelet 

Footlong Hotdog 

28 Newswatch .28 
46 Calvary Temple 
16 Tonight Show 
22 CBS Late Movie · "Washington Mistress" New Avengers 
28 ABC News Nightline 
46 Everlasting Gospel 
28 Eye on Hollywood 
34 Film Du Jour: "They Made Me A 
Criminal"  
46  Praise the Lord  
16  Late Night with  David Letter­ 
man  
16  Allin the Family  
22  Nightwatch  

46 Independent Network News 
6:30P.M. 7:00P.M. 8:00P.M. 8:30P.M. 9:00P.M. 
10:00 P.M. 
10:30P.M. 
ll:OOP.M. Wed-
11:30P.M. 
12:30A.M. 1:00A.M. 2:00A.M. 
" SENIORS ' 
If ya.u have nat •i'=lned up far SENIDR PORTRAITS 
SIGNUPWW~ 
iran-ups: Rt Gr••nRaam. Washinratan Hall (Ga up the staircase facinra St. Ed•s] 

·~~~· 

"******************** 
fOOTBALL * t CONCESSION ~ i( STANDS* 
1'c~lubs/Organizations must pick up concession ~ 
tand packets in the Student Activities * 
ffice by WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18. All ~nclaimed concession packets will be given ~ ~o clubs on the list of alternates. ; 
i( •Concession stand list is posted outside of lt i( the Student Activities O.ffice. * 
"******************** 


·-­
-

SP-orts 
Grace pleased with his team's play although wins are hard to come by 
ByPHILWOLF test, the Irish took eighth-ranked Two "big doors" will be coming AssistantSports Edttor Evansville to overtime last Sunday to Notre Dame this weekend, as Mic­before losing, 4-2. The Purple Aces higan State hits Cartier Field Friday 
The Notre Dame soccer team cur­led, 2-0, after the first five minutes of night and Indiana arrives at Alumni rently holds a 1-5 record, and Head play, but the Irish fought back and Field on Sunday. Coach Dennis Grace "couldn't be eventually tied the score with just The home crowds can expect to happier." two minutes remaining in the game. be entertained this weekend by a 
The Irish have compiled what ap­That game serves as an example of corps of Irish freshmen who are pears to be a disappointing record, how close Notre Dame is to turning leading the team in scoring. Eight of but they have done so against the its season around, Grace said. With a Notre Dame's 10 goals this season toughest competition the team has few lucky breaks, it could have been have been scored by rookies. faced in its nine-year history. the Irish who emerged with the vic­Topping the scoring charts is 
"We knew what we were getting tory in thai game. midfielder Tom Gerlacher, with two into when we scheduled these "When we make a mistake, we goals and an assist. Fellow freshmen teams," Grace said during practice seem to pay the price," Grace la­John Guignon and Joe Sternberg yesterday. "I almost couldn't be hap­mented, "and when the other teams each have added two goals, an_d pier at this point." make the mistakes we don't take junior transfer Bruce "Tiger" 
Notre Dame has dropped games advantage of them." As a result, the McCourt has tallied one goal. to two Top-Ten teams, Virginia and Irish have been forced to live with Tri-captains Chris Telk and David Evansville; to then 15th-ranked the memory of only close brushes Miles have contributed one goal and George Mason; and to Wisconsin­with success. three asssits, respectively. Jock Milwaukee and Wisconsin-Madison. In fact, just a few breaks could Mutschler, the third captain, has The team's only win came against have made the Notre Dame record anchored the defense from his stop­DePaul on Sept. II. look much different today. After a 3-per back position. 
The unranked Irish are playing 0 loss to third-ranked Virginia to Junior Goalkeeper Hugh Breslin such high-caliber competition so open the season, the Irish have not has played every minute for the Irish that they may improve their skills, lost a game by more than two goals. this season, and he has made 47 Grace said. They took Wisconsin-Milwaukee to saves on 104 shots from opponents. 
"We didn't make out the schedule overtime before losing their home His 2.6 goals-against average is in­for 15 or 18 wins," he explained. opener, 3-2. dicative of how he has helped to "We made out the schedule to "Our attitudes are high," Grace keep Notre Dame close in several become a very good soccer team,, said. "The kids feel bad that we contests. and I think right now we are a very didn't win some of those games, but "The plan is falling into place," good soccer team. they know they're playing good Grace said. 
"We're much better now than we teams. And they're playing right With the talented freshmen the 
were at any point last year. We're with them, which is important to Irish have and the optimism of the 
much better than we were in our them (the Irish). head coach, a few wins now could 
first game. or in our second game. "We're knocking on the door (of create the momentum to carry 
We're showing progress in every success), and we're not knocking on Notre Dame to a successful win-loss 
game, and that's why we're here." the little doors. We're knocking on record, despite the tough competi­
In Notre Dame's most recent con-the big doors." tion. 

ND's Banks answered when 9pportunity knocked 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN 
Sports Writer 
Call it an. American story. The starter gets hurt, and an unknown comes off the bench and shines. Or, call it big time college football. When a starter goes down, a quality player fills his place. Both of these situations describe Robert Banks, a two-year starter at Notre Dame outside linebacker. 
In his freshman campaign of 1983, the 6-5, 234-pound Banks filled in for Mike Kovaleski when Kovaleski sprained an ankle. Banks started the final game of the year against Air Force and registered 1 0 tackles. 
Then last year when Mike Larkin tore ligaments in his knee, Banks was named as a starter at outside linebacker. 
"I thought I had the capability to start so it was just a matter of time," Banks says. "I just had to wait and be ready when my opportunity came. When it came I had to make the best ofit." 
And make the best of it he did. Banks was the only linebacker to start all 12 games last year and was third in minutes played among defensive players. He finished as the second leading tackler on the team. His 68 total tackles placed him only below Kovaleski's 108. 
"Robert is an excellent football player," says Irish outside linebacker coach Bishop Harris. "He's very dependable and consistent. He plays hard and with a lot of intensity. He doesn't have blazing speed, but he makes up for that with his consis­tency. I have no reservations about using him in any situation. I'm very comfortable with his play." 
Banks also says his playing style is one ofconsistency. 
"I try to be in the right place at the right time," he says. "I also try to be a bonus player. After I've taken care of my responsibilities, I try to see what I can do to help out." 
In the linebacking corps, arguably one of the team's strongest points, consistency doesn't attract a lot of 
attention. Co-captains Tony Furjanic 
and Mike Larkin figure to get most of 
the headlines. In addition, Banks, a two-time monogram winner, has three-time letterman Rick DiBer­nardo behind him on the depth chart. Banks, though, isn't bothered by either. 
"It's not good on a team to be en­vious," he says. "I'm glad for (Furjanic and Larkin). If I walk off the field and did the best I could, then I'm satisfied. 
"I think competition is good for everyone. It's a group concept. I figure I have my own specialties. If Larkin or DiBernardo do something I can't, or I do something they can't, then we can learn from each other. Competition makes people be the best they can be." 
Banks has already had a consistent 1985. In spring practice, he won the Hering Award for the best outside linebacker. Against Michigan, Robert made six solo tackles and as­sisted on two others. 
"After I loss, I feel that if I could have done this differently or that dif­ferently, the results would have been better. When we lose I feel that I could have given more. We can be a great defense." 
see BANKS, page 9 

ND-SMC equality ends where ticket lines begin 
When Saint Mary's students waited in the long line at the Athletic and Convocation Center a couple ofweeks ago to buy their coveted Notre Dame football tickets, they once again found themselves digging in their pocketbooks for 
S16.50 more than their Notre Dame counterparts. 
Many students have questioned the reasoning behind the price differential. 
According to Notre Dame Ticket Manager Mike Bobinski, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students did not have to pay for their tickets prior to 1980. Bobinski, who is in his second year, said that when the decision was made five years ago to charge the students, the ticket manager at that time wanted to maintain a differential between the two schools. Although Bobinski was not around to be in­volved in the decision, he thinks that those in charge wanted to make the distinction that even though Saint 
Mary's does share many things with Notre Dame, the two 
schools are still not one and the same. 
Thus Notre Dame students were given a 50 percent dis­
count and Saint Mary's students charged two-thirds of the 
regular price, for exactly the same seats in the stadium. 
And that decision holdS today. 
Maybe Saint Mary's students could better understand 
the difference if Notre Dame students paid the difference 
in some other school-related fee along the way, but 
Bobinski knew of no such fee. ­
It seems strange that two schools that can share classes, meals, club sports, many ofthe same organizations -all at no extra cost, are not charged the same price for a ticket to one ofthe h social events on 

Kelly Porto lese 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The situation concerning basketball tickets is different, but the attitude ofthe ticket office is similar. 
Because of the size of the ACC, Saint Mary's is allotted a limited number of basketball tickets. And all those tickets . are for bleacher seats. Saint Mary's students do, however, pay the same amount as their Notre Dame friends who re­quest the same upper arena seats. 
So although Saint Mary's students do not pay any more money for their winter sport entertaintment, the unfor­tunate thing here is that unless a Saint Mary's student is able to obtain a lower arena seat by some other means than the ticket office, she will never be able to enjoy the games with friends who take in the game from a more comfortable position and with a much better view. Bobinski explained that because of the smaller facility, the reasoning was that Notre Dame students deserve a first shot at basketball tick­ets and that a price difference here would be inconsequen­tial. 
So as a senior I have, for the last time, paid more to see Allen Pinkett play than my aquaintances across U.S. 31 and I will view the excitement ofDavid Rivers from high above the court. all because somewhere the way it was decided that Saint Mary's students do not deserve an equal opportunity -in terms of ticket price or seat location -to view Notre Dame football and basketball games. 
The Saint Mary's Athletic Council, under the direction of President Anne Cushing and Vice PresidentJanine Adamo, held its first organizational meeting last week. 
Director ofAthletics and RecreationJo-Ann Nester, who oversees the council; is responsible for getting the or­ganization off the ground in its inaugral year last year. With all the procedural flaws hopefully ironed out, the student­run organization should accomplish a great deal this year. 
Some ideas the council will be looking into over tbe course ofthe year will be the possibiJity ofobtaining a new nickname for the college's athletic teams. It also hopes to be organizing an alumnae athletic newspaper, getting alumnae to contribute to the athletic department, and planning an old timers softball game before the end of the year. Sophomore basketball player Tammye Radke is in charge ofalumnae relations. 
The council, which will meet twice instead of once a month this year, consists oftwo representatives from each varsity sport, and one representative from each ofthe club sports. There will be a single representative for all the in­tramural teams. 
In addition to a chairperson in charge of alumnae rela­tions, there also will be a head of sports information, a publicity director, a secretary, a treasurer, and someone in charge ofThe Spirit, the athletic newsletter. 




