Mexico tremor -page 6 


Jail bird 

Colleen McFee usesherentitledpbonecall to "get nut ofjail." McFee, a Badin sophomore, got caught In the United Way's "Lock up a Frlend"fundralslng program. 
Ad prompts letters ,to Tyson on handling of parietal violations 
BySCOTI BE.ARBY 
AssistuntNews Editor 
Letters objecting to recent ad­ministration action concerning parietals violations have been received after a Hall Presidents' Council ad concerning the issue ran in the Observer, said HPC Chairman Kevin Howard at last night's meeting. 
HPC is calling attention to Univer­sity ability to suspend or dismiss stu· dents who are in violation of parietals, regardless of cir­cumstances. Although HPC agreed "parietals are a positive influence on the residendality of Notre Dame," they question removing a student from the University "when there is no moral Issue in question." 
Howard called on the presidents to encourage more letter writing to Vice President ofStudent Allairs Fat­
her David Tyson  in  care of Om­ 
budsman.  
In  other  action,  Student  

Government Parliamentarian Brian Holst clarified a vote taken at the last HPC meeting concerning the dis­banding of Student Senate. At that meeting, hall presidents voted by a 2/3 majority to put the issue to a stu· dent referendum after debating the legitimacy ofthe body. 
According to Holst, they should not have voted to have a referen· dum, since that procedure would not be binding. He said if the body is going to take any action ·it should propose an amendment to the stu­dent government constitution, since disbanding senate is a structural change. 

Another vote was taken last night on whether senate should be dis­banded, this time putting the proposal In the form of an amend­ment. By a vote of 19 for, three against, one abstention, and one ab­sence, the proposal again passed. 
According to Holst, the issue needs to be approved by a 213 majorityofthe senate ora 2/3 agree­ment by the undergraduates who decide to vote on whether senate should cease to exist. Student Body Vice President Duane Lawrence said OBUD will be setting a date for the student vote, probably within the next week. 
Howard said he and the original group of student leaders who proposed the abolition ofsenate are currently working on revising the constitution should the students vote to disband the body. Some of the power currently held by senate would go to the Campus Ufe Coun­cil, while HPC would be delegated 
see HPC, paae 4 

Abortion activist to speak today about pro-life activities 
By CHRIS SKORCZ 
Sentar StuffReporter 
Joseph Scheidler, executive direc­tor of the Pro-Ufc Action League, will speak tomorrow at R:OO p.m. in the Ubrary Auditorium on the topic "Activism in the Pro-Ufc Move­ment." 
Scheidler, whose pro-life educa­tional organization works through the media to increase public aware­ness of abortion-related issues, has been called "one ofthe Green Berets of the pro-life movement" by nationally-syndicated columnist Patrick Buchanan. 
His methodll of drawing attention to his organization are highly "controversial" according to Profes­sor Janet· Smith of the Notre Dame/St. Mary's Right to Ufe Group. 
"Scheidler is very outspoken," said Smith. "His method is con­frontational, a method which reminds many people of the tech­niques used in the 1960's to protest the Vietnam War. He employs the same methods in defending the rights of the unborn. 
"Because many people find him s0 controversial, we thought it would be fair to let him present his views and defend his techniques," Smith said. 

Scheidler, a former writer for the South Bend Tribune, has taught jour­nalism and speech at Notre Dame. He has also served as public informa­tion director for the city ofChicago. 
In addition to his book. "Closed: 99 Ways to Shut Down the Abortion Industry," Scheidler has had articles published in many major newspapers and magazines and has made more than 500 radio and television appearances. 
Also today, Scheidler will be giving a demonstration of his sidewalk counseling techniques at the Women's Pavilion on St. Louis Blvd. from 4 to '>:30 p.m. It Is this technique, in particular, for which Scheidler has drawn much fire. 
"Sidewalk counseling Is a procedure, the goal ofwhich is to of­fer assistance to women before they enter the abortion clinic, " Smith said. "Scheidler has helped thousands ofwomen have babies by stopping them before they go into the clinic and by tcUing them that help is available at a care center. 
"Sidewalk counseling is not like demonstrating or picketing which are directly concerned with making a statement before the media," she said. 
Hurricane Juan swamps Gulf area 
MORGAN CITY, La. · Unex­pected Hurricane Juan wobbled ashore and stalled again yesterday, knocking down a third oil rig as its heavy rain and 8') mph winds whipped offshore waves 20 feet high and drove tides up to I 0 feet above normal against inland levees. 
At least three people were dead and four missing, including three believed trapped in a drilling rig that toppled in a marsh. Ap· proximately 160 people had been rescued from rigs and boats in the Gulf of Mexico and adjacent waters over three days, the Coast Guard said. 
By 3 p.m. CST, however, Juan's winds diminished to 65 mph, and the National Weather Service downgraded it to a tropical storm. At 5 p.m., the poorly defined center ofJuan was estimated to be near latitude 30.4 north, longitude 

92.1 west, near Lafayette, La. 
Displaced snakes, including poisonous water moccasins, and balls of stinging fire ants floated through some flooded streets. 
The storm, which surprised forecasters when it strengthened into a hurricane Sunday and then stalled for a day just off the coast, came ashore and then stalled ncar Lafayette. 
By noon, winds on land had gusted to 40 mph and heavy bands of rain extended from the Gulf south of Mobile, Ala., to Jackson, Miss., and as far east as Florida. 
Offshore, winds were clocked at 85 mph and kicked up 20-foot waves at noon, seven hours after Juan moved ashore near here, said Coast Guard Petty Officer Gary Stark. 
Tornadoes spun out of the rain clouds at Laurel, Miss., and Orange Beach, Ala., damaging trees, a barn and a trailer home at Laurel and a store and car at Orange Beach. In Florida, a tornado caused minor damage to the Panama City suburb of Calloway, and rain flooded streets in Jacksonville, on the At· !antic coast. Southeastern Texas had gotten almost 7.25 inches of rain since Sunday. 
Divers from the Coast Guard and the Louisiana Department of Wild Ufc and Fisheries cut holes in the steel hull of a jackup drilling rig 
see JUAN, page 6 


-~~ ----~-----------------­
The Observer Wednesday, October 30, 1985-page 2 

In Brief 
American Telephone & Telegraph Co. 
said it will cut off telephone service to the offices, courthouse and jail ofWashington County, Pa., ifa bill of nearly 1200,000 isn't paid by tomorrow. County Controller Patricia Beharry said paying the bill might be illegal because it includes equipment purchases for which the county commissioners sought no bids. State law requires purchases ofmore than 14,000 to be bid. -AP 
Of Interest 
The Notre Dame Glee Club will present its fall concert Friday night at 8:15 In Washington Hall. Tickets are free and may be obtained at the LaFortune Record Store, tomorrow and Friday from 12:30 to 4:30p.m. There is a limit of two tickets per person. Tickets will not be honored after 8 p.m. the night of the concert. -Tbe Observer 
Off-campus students: The United Way campaign is presently underway and off-campus students are asked to contribute also. Cannisters are availabie and awaiting donations in the LaFortune Student Center. -Tbe Observer 
Nothingventured, nothing gained. Saint Mary's Society for Entrepeneurship and New Venture will have an organizational meeting tomorrow at 4 p.m. in Room 304 Haggar College Center. All Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students are invited -Tbe Observer 
Spiritual Rock of Notre Dame will hold its fellowship meeting tonight at 7 in the Keenan Chapel. Those who ordered tick­ets for the upcoming concert can pick them up this evening. -Tbe Observer 
Toastmasters International at Notre Dame will meet tonight in Room 223 Hayes-Healy Center.-Tbe Observer 
People needpeople. And right now in the Michiana area, there are people who need you. They're childten, sick people, old people, people who are just down on their luck. Call HELPUNE at 232-2522 for more Information.-Tbe Obseroer 
joe Scheidler, a former Notre Dame professor and founder of the Pro-Life Action League, will speak tonight at 8 in the library Auditorium. The tide ofhis speech is "Activism and the Pro­Life Movement." He also will lead a demonstration at the abortion clinic on St. Louis A venue at 4 p.m. Transportation is available from the Main Circle at 3:4 5-4: 1 5 p.m. Both events are sponsored by Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Right to Life. -Tbe Observer 
Notre Dame Industrial Design Club will present "Who Are We? And What Are We Doing?", a discussion on past and present works ofGeorge Tisten and Don Vogl, members of the Notre Dame Art department. The presentation will begin at 7:30 tonight in Room 20 Riley Hall ofArt and Design. -Tbe Obseroer 
Volunteer to work with the elderly at its first meeting and orientation-workshop tonight at 6:30. Refreshments and a question session will follow the meeting. -Tbe Observer 
"Turmoil in student government" and the recall campaign aimed at Student Body President Bill Healy will be the topic tonight on Campus Perspective with john Deckers. Tune in at 10 p.m. on WVFl AM64. For questions olcomments, call 239-6400.-Tbe Observer 

Weather 
Back to normal weather today. In other words, say good-bye to nice weather for awhile. Cloudy today with a 20 percent chance of rain. High in the mid to upper 50s. Cloudy tonight and tomorrow with a 50 percent chance ofshowers. Low tonight in the mid 40s, high tomorrow 55 to 60. -AP 



Today's issu., was produc.,d by: 
Design Editor................. Mark McLaughlin Viewpoint Copy Editor .......Aile., Gron.,r Design Assistant .................. Kathy Huston VlewpointLayout............ Mdlssa Warnk., Layout Staff..................... M"llnda Murphy Features Copy Editor...... ~nk Wlrnm.,r 
Features Layout............................ Keri ~Is Typesetters ...................................... Pat Oark ND Day Editor........................ Diane Dutan 
J.,nnlf.,r Lynn Bigon SMC DayEditor.................... Priscilla Karle News Editor ....................... Bob Mussc:lrnan Ad Design ..................... J"anni" Gramm.,ns Copy Editor....................... Ann Kolt.,nbach jim Kramer Sports Copy Editor.................Marry Burns Photographer ......................... Andy Sandler 
lb., Observer ( l 'SPS ~99 l~1000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation P"riods. lb., Observer is published by the stud.,ntsofthe l 'niv.,rsity of Notre Oame and Saint Mary's Colkge~ Subscriptions may ~ purchased for $30 per year ( Jlll per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 
16~%. 

lb., Observer is a mem~r of lb., Associated Press. All reproduction rights are 
rc:srrvc:d. 


Use bricks to build foundation; don't throw them at each other 
Today's studentleaders are a different breedfrom the ones I knew as a freshman. 
Joe

Then, if for olil.y one brief shining moment, Notre Dame had leaders who were making a difference. 
Murphy

The clouds have covered the campus again though. Students are right back where they started. The eternal 
Viewpoint Editor

truth is that students are hostages to the quality of leadership available. More often than not, few really 

qualified leaders are at the helm ofstudent government organizations; however, my freshman year was one time when people of vision, not politicians, used con­structive methods for beneficial change. 
At a time when Healy-Haters and Bill-Bashers are gat­hering signatures to oust the student body president, I thought I would share with 50 percent of the student body not here two years ago some of the actions and characteristics ofthe then student leaders. 
FormerJudicial Coordinator Bob Gleason, a catalytic agent for student rights, took the Judicial Council from a skeleton ofan organization 
and the student protest to the alcohol policy much stronger events than had he not been present. 
The phone installation was one of several minor changes which occurred only because a studem took the time to do it. 
These two leaders symbolize an era when leaders worked hard, expected and received little applause, tenaciously pursued set goals and most importantly shared a vision ofwhat should and could be done. They were student workers as much as student leaders. 
Today's leaders are the 




Unit•d Way Fund Driv• ia pr•••ntlyund•rway Dra alf danatian• in cani•t•r• in LaFartun• 
HOW WO.ULD YOU LIKE TO 
THROW SOMETHING AT 


STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT, 

and built it over the course wrong people in the wrong of a year into a responsive place at the wrong time vehicle to addtess discipli­working for all the wrong nary matters. reasons. 
Among his credits, and I Unfortunately, Gleason could list many having and McAvoy are not here to covered the council for The make things right. Observer during his term of I am sure, though, there office, Gleason held a Judi­are many on this campus cial Council Workshop to who, like Gleason and teach judicial hall members McAvoy, prefer to build how to conduct a trial. people and institutions up Former Dean of Students rather than tear them down. Roemer even gave a talk to In the weeks ahead, it will the 100 hall council mem­become increasingly clear bers present. who throws bricks and who 
Gleason began an ag­uses those bricks to lay the gressive campaign to inform foundation for future leader­students of their rights. ship. 
Gleason got Roemer to clarify ambiguous points in du Lac and offered parietals policy alternatives to the administration. He even began a newsletter to keep council members informed. Under Gleason, the concept ofa students' rights manual began to be formulated. 
Another leader who performed his duties well was former Student Senator Dave MeAvoy who lead the fight to win a series of minor victories for students' needs. 
In an Observer commentary, Mark Worscheh, former managing editor of The Observer, noted McAvoy's success on the "parking lot issues" which are "the little things student government workers do to make life for the rest ofus a little better." 
McAvoy, impressive in speech and in deed, got more phones placed in the basement of Memorial library. Having the phones installed took four months of working through the burea-ucratic obstacles. McAvoy, along with others, helped make the Mock Convention 
The solution to rebuilding student government rests in putting the right people in the ri""gbt place at the right time for the right reasons. Success ultimately becomes a question of motives, and for too long the motives of student leaders have been questionable. Students, such as MeAvoy and Gleason, may not have been right always, but their intentions were always beyond question. 
Student government needs students who care about the success ofstudent goals more than personal desires, who fight for what is right rather than what is ex­pedient, and who are too busy improving themselves and the organizations which they lead to attack others. 
This, though, is not to suggest Notre Dame is without such student leaders today. That would be unfair to many leaders who do care, who do work hard, who do do the job the way it should be done. In fact, they are the ones who have kept student government from total collapse. I only hope they will be there to pick up the pieces and rebuild in the weeks ahead. 
The Observer Wednesday, October 30, 1985-page 3 

t*******************1 

Ready to unlock your potential? Then here are your keys. We're looking for delivery drivers · Call us: with the ambition to advance through 277-2151 our system step­
1835 South Bend Ave. by-step. Plaza 23 Center 
South Bend Call or stop in your local Domino's Pizza store today for more employment information. Who knows? The keys to your future just might be waiting for you at Domino's Pizza. 
©1985 Domino's Pizza, Inc. 
The Student Adivltles Board preaenta 

F.O.B.I.S. FEST 

(Fun Outside Before It Snows Festival) In conjunction with the United Way Drive 
Monday, Oct.28 ......~ perbil.... 
. bV..llleiiGIIIganl,.. Jqrz land, ..Danolng 
• 111111. Flam t:Mpm oul­lldelcMMI DII*'UMall. 

Tuesday Oct 29........~.a~evcufatfunllwl"
• • CCMCIOfiiOIIId will Non-
Vonllty Alhlellol at •· 
Admllllon $2.00. Aegle­
trollon at dining halla 
anc:t atSAlollloel. 

Wednesday, Oct.30 •• Nght at the Alumni­
Senior Club. 9pm-2am. 

Thursday. Oct.31..... HallowMn Malqi.*Ode 
CoiiUme Party. South Dining Hall, 9:~? St.00<ionatlon to Lhlted 
Wav. 

Friday, Nov .1·••••••••••Fnt F.o.e.1.s.
Annual 
,_. Dorm Quad Paradol Parade around oamp111 llartlng at Admin. Bldg. anc:t ending at the pep rally. Featur.,lhe Noire Dame Marching Band. ~ Rock-G.Uke oonlell LIJHVOC conlell for Lhi*l way, North Dining Hall from 9-11pm. hglltrallan at dining hall• and at SAil olltcea. 


Apartheid: the Notre Dame Response, was the Peter Walsbe, Father Oliver Wtlliams and Professor topic of a panel discussion last night at Planner Lee Tavis. Story below. Hall. The three speakers were, left to right, Professor 
Panel reviews apartheid options 
ByELLYN MASTAKO 
StoffReporter 
Notre Dame's role in South Africa was discussed by a p~el in Flanner Hall last night. 
Professor Peter Walshe, one of three panelists, began with a discus­sion of his views on the apartheid system. Walshe, a South African native, spoke ofhis country's plight. 
"Those who are pro-investment don't realize the powerlessness 'of the blacks in South Africa and the high infant mortality rate. It's easy under the dome and in Corby Hall to argue, 'let's give the South African government a little more time to change."' 
He continued, "They have to realize that the black protests began in 1912, and the United States has been condemning the apartheid since 1948. 
"The issues are no longer mkro­issues like integration of toilets. They are now macro-issues. We are moving into a period where increas­ing white repression will lead to in­creasing 4 black resistance and escalated violence." 
Father Oliver Williams, associate professor of management, and anot­her panelist, told ofhis involvement with the apartheid issue, which began with an interest in the ethics ofinvestments in South Africa. As he sees it, there are two schools of ~ought with regarding investments in South Africa. 
First, is the theory that if Notre Dame divests, it will make an economic impact on the companies that are in South Africa, and they will, in turn, disinvest in South Africa. This disinvestment would have an economic impact on the country and, it is hoped, cause the country to come to a speedy, and satisfactory change in political sys­tems. 
The other theory suggests Notre Dame should try to use the cor­porate power that it has as stock­holders, and try to advance human rights and abolish apartheid. 
He told of the aboliltion of apar­theid in the South African workplace. Blacks are in maru~ge­ment positions and are receiving equal pay; in wider society, however, things are quite dlft'erent. Even black executives are forced to live in black neighborhoods that have slum conditions. 
Williams said, "The issue is, 'Is 
Boston Globe 

"I styled mvself. att:er Jay Leno when It comes to stand-up comedy." Dovld Lettermal\ Playboy Interview 
-Late Night with Leno . "To see the long linea for 1.enooufllde the Great AmlriCan t.blc: Hall, where I COI,Ight him thll weekend, YQU'd t1W1k Joan RMn was In town. Lena's following Is Cillo smart, IJPICQie and con't sleep." 
Variety 

"Mr. Lena's humor was at Its sharpest In Its skewering of sexist Im­agery In popular culture." New York Tk'nes 
PRESENTED BY NOTRE DAME SAB. 
Tickets available OT: Notre Dame SAB Record Store, ACC Box Office, Century Center Box Office or Charge by phone (219) 28<4·9111. 
Advance Tickets $10.50 • $12.50 at the door 
corporate power enough to dis­mantle apartheid?' If so, stay. If not, divest." 
j

He does not agree with Walshe's 
1

strategy of divestiture. Instead, Wil­liams believes that the best chance for change lies within the multi­national corporate structure. 
"Businesses are the most progressive vehicles in alleviating the apartheid system," he said, at which point Walshe interrupted, saying that the Black protestors are actually the most progressive vehicles for alleviating the apartheid system. 
Williams concluded, "The Univer­sity's divestiture would do nothing because other investors would simply move in. Investors might be less sympathetic to the anti-apar­theid cause. I feel that the policy at Notre Dame of selective divestiture is the moral policy." 
Lee Tavis, professor offinance and business economics, was the third panelist. He taught in South Africa and told of his contact with its citizens, especially an aging revolu­tionary named Ernest. He told ofter­rorist training for black South Africans by the Russians and the Chinese. 
Accountancy chair set up 
SpedllliO The Obeerftr 
The Vincet and Rose Uzzadro Chair in Accountancy has been es­tablished at Notre Dame by the late couple's son, an Oak Park, IL, in­surance executive who graduated from the University in 1933. 
"It is especially fitting that Dominic Uzzadro has chosen to honor his parents and the University with the gift of an endowed chair," said Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre Dame president. "His parents were hardworking people at whose core was their love of family. Their beliefin the value ofeducation is joined in this chair with Notre Dame's mission to offer higher learn­ing as a foundation In life." 
Vincent Uzzaddro emigrated to the United States from Baragiano, Italy, in 1912 at his wife's persua­sion. Leaving behind his land hol­dings In Italy, he settled In Chicago to work as a railroad laborer. His wife and three children joined him· in Chicago in 1914. 
In 1919 the family opened the Uz­zadro Bakery at 2130 W. Polk St., where they also occupied the upstairs living quarters. Uzzadro retired from the bakery business in 1951 at the age of71 and moved his family to Oak Park. He died in 1958; his wife died 16 years later. 
After receiving an accounting degree from Notre Dame in 1933, Dominic Uzzadro worked as an ex­aminer for the Illinois Insurance Department. In 1949 he formed his own company, Industrial Fire and Casualty, Oak Park, and retired this year as its president. 

The Observer Wednesday, October 30, 1985-page 4 
Women excel in business world 

More women than ever before are achieving high-level positions in the business world. But what skills and values are helping them reach the top? 
Because business is now the most popular major at Saint Mary's, Jack ~uhe, professor and chairman ofthe business department, was interested in finding the answers to that ques­
r ~ tion. 
J He and Rita Fritz, president of 
r Corporate Systems and Images, a South Bend-based firm, surveyed 
r 1,400 top-level women executives 
r nationwide, Seventy-six percent of 
r 
the women who responded were vice-presidents or above, and 14 r ~ percent were presidents or chair­
men ofthe board.r Ruhe said he discovered an im­portant ingredient in the success of
~ 
r 
HPC 
continuedfrom page 1 
other responsibility, according to a rough draft prepared by the group. 
Non-Varsity Athletics announced its "all-nighter" at the ACC, which will take place the evening of Nov. 15 through the morning of Nov. 16. All f.lcilities will be open to students, according to Sally Derengowski, as­sistant director ofNVA . 
• 

Events ranging from ned-football to innertube water polo will take place throughout the night in what NVA hopes will be a fun, unique fundraiser. Entry fees for the various events will go to benefit the St. 


(D(D~~~ rn~rn~ 
t!JUW 

women was their realization that no one, man or woman, succeeds the first time. 
"Only by learning from mistakes," Ruhe said, "can a person develop the self-confidence he or she needs to advance in business. And sometimes that is a hard filet for women to ac­cept. 
"Most managers of businesses are men, and women do not naturally have the skills men are looking for," Ruhe continued. "That's because women have not had the same socialization men have had. 
"For example women have not had the practice in risk-taking that men have had in the dating process, and women have n\)t experienced the self-confidence through com­petitive team play to the extent that men have." 
Joseph's County Special Olympics. 
NVA is sponsoring the so­cial/sporting event in order to give students a chance to do something different. Derengowski added that 
The top ten skills listed by the respondents which helped them through the ranks were: building trust with superiors, learning from experience, self-confidence, writing persuasively, 'managing time well, understanding corporate priorities, sensing what information is needed, planning work, implementing what needs to be done, and asserting aut­hority when needed. 
The top skills listed in retaining their. positions were: being self­confident, understanding the "big picture," building trust with super­iors and subordinates, understand­ing corporate priorities, selecting key subordinates, sensing what in­formation is needed and how to solve problems, asserting authority when needed, delegating to ap­propriate persons, managing time well, and developing a climate of teamwork. 
(after 6 p.m.) and the newly com­pleted nautatorium will be open for use. 
HPC also heard from Student Ac­tivities Board's Fun Outside Before 

Inc Obecrvu/Or'C'w Sandler 

Candy woman 
Kathy McCarthy tries to entice prospective candy buyers into breaking their diets yesterday at the North Dining Hall. McCarthy, a Breen-Pbillips senior, was helping out with herball's Halloween candy sale. 

Th~ Observer 



UT:rC'a¥41@#;~~ 
..--?111""!1REN~ 1J I ----. . *f 'j
.....t.. J . ' ·.' j
----------·--. I ,,, 
API'hoto

French twist 

Designers present the French Trlbus GX23 7, a jointly byRenaultandHeuliez, will be tested In six tbree·section bus which wtll cany 220 passengers French cities nextyear. through winding city traffic. The vehicle, produced 
New 'slim disease' linked to AIDS 
NEW YORK -A new fatal disease that is linked to the AIDS virus and produces extreme weight loss has been found in heterosexuals in Africa, where It has become known as "slim disease." 
"Although slim disease resembles AIDS In many ways, it seems to be a new entity," its discoverers wrote in the Oct. 19 Issue of The Lancet, a British medical journal. 
AIDS and sllm disease share many of the same symptoms, the resear­chers report, but AIDS docs not generally produce the extreme weight loss and diarrhea seen in slim disease. 
Victims of slim disease are not as likely to exhibit the swollen lymph glands and the rare cancer called Kaposi's sarcoma, both common 


B··O··O··K·· F ··A·· I·· R 
Oct. 28-Nov. I' 20% Discount 
Special Orders May be Placed! 
TITLES ON DISPLAY 

features of AIDS, or acquired Immune deficiency syndrome, in American and European homosexuals, the researchers said. 
Sixty-three of 71 patients with slim disease showed evidence of in­fection with the AIDS virus. Studies are under way to determine why evidence ofthe virus did not appear in all patients, said the researchers, who Include Dr. Anne Bayley ofUni­versity Hospital in Lusaka, Zambia and Dr. Robin Weiss of the Institute ofCancer Research in London. 
The disease, found in Uganda and believed to have originated In Tan­zania, ditfers not only from AIDS in America but also from the heterosexual form of AIDS seen in neighboring Zaire, the researchers 
said.  Slim  disease  occurs  
predominantly  in  promiscuous  
heterosexuals.  

A separate case ofwhat appears to be slim disease was found in London in one patient who did not have evidence of infection with the AIDS virus, often designated HTLV-III. That patient, however, did carry an AIDS-like virus that has been is­olated and is now under study, the researchers said. 
Not aU researchers believe that slim disease is a new Illness, said Dr. 
· Timothy Dondero of the federal Centers for Disease Control in At­lanta. 
"It sounds to me like a variant of ARC (aids-related complex), a poorly defined collection .of condi­tions which are related to HTLV-III infection," Dondero said. He said that he could not comment in detail because he had not yet seen the ar­ticle in The Lancet. 
Wednesday, October 30, 1985-page 5 
House approves bill for Pentagon budget 
WASHINGTON -The House yes­terday approved a bill authorizing a record Pentagon budget for the cur­rent fiscal year after some liberal Democrats dropped complaints that had delayed the measure for three months. 
The bill, approved by voice vote, 
authorizes Defense Department 
spending of S302.5 billion in the fis. 
cal year that started Oct. 1. That will 
buy thousands ofplanes, ships, tanks 
and other weapons, but it also halves 
President Reagan's MX nuclear 
missile program from 100 to 50 of 
the 10-warhead weapons. 
It also permits development of new chemical weapons for the first time since 1969, although money to actually pay for the project was stripped last week from a com­panion spending bill. Those funds will have to be restored on the floor or else the Army could not build the nerve gas bombs and artillery shells. 
The Senate approved the aut­horization measure 94-5 three months ago, shortly after it emerged from a House-Senate conference committee called to resolve 1,200 ditferences between the versions passed by the Democratic­controlled House and Republican­run Senate. 
But some House liberals were unhappy with the bill, arguing that House members of the conference committee, led by Armed Services Committee Chairman Les Aspin, D· Wis., made too many concessions. 
Rep. Barney Frank, D-Mass., said yesterday the position of the House was not well-represented in the con­ference committee. 
For example, the House originally 
I 
1

Lock wait continues; 1 
1 reopening 8 days away ,, 1 
THOROLD, Ontario -With a reopening deadline eight days away, the number of ships delayed by a damaged lock in the Wetland Canal grew yesterday as workers hastened repairs to the vital link In the blocked St. Lawrence Seaway. 
Gay Hensley, a spokeswoman for the Canadian St. Lawrence Seaway Authority in Ottawa, Said 110 ships have now informed the seaway they are waiting to pass through the Wei· land Canal when it reopens. 

APGnohlc 

That compares to approximately 65 ships waiting to move through before the authority announced last Thursday a Nov. 6 tentative reopen­ing. 
Most ships are moored In the 26· mile long_ canal, some are at anchorages on either end of the canal in lakes Erie or Ontario, whlfe others are tied up at harbors along the seaway, which links the Great Lakes with the Atlantic Ocean. 
Hensley said 63 of the ships waiting to pass through the canal are westbound, while the other 47 are eastbound. 
With shippers losing an estimated SlO,OOO to S20,000 per ship each day and the blockage passing its 15th day yesterday the financial repercussions of the canal blockage 
voted for a S292 billion Pentagon budget, but the conferees accepted the Senate-approved S302. 5 billion. Reagan has said he supports the 
measure, even though It limits the 
lncreli;SC In defense spending to the 
expected Inflation rate. Last year's 
authorized Pentagon budget was 
S292 billion and Reagan had 
originally sought a 5.9 percent hike 
beyond inflation, to about S320 blf­
lion. 

Frank said procurement reforms 
approved by the House "were un­
recognizable" when the conference 
committee changed them and noted 
that whlfe the Senate voted for 50 
MX weapons, the House approved 
40 and the conferees accepted 50. 
Still to come Is a major fight over separate legislation that actually ap­propriates the money for the aut­horized spending. The House was scheduled to begin floor considera­tion today of a bill appropriating S292 billion for the Pentagon this year. 
The authorization bill had been scheduled for a floor vote In early August, shortly before a month-long recess, but was delayed because of the complaints from some House liberals. 
After the recess, Aspln and other Democratic leaders worked behind the scenes to deal with the com­plaints. 
At one point, Aspln had promised a separate floor vote on the chemical weapons Issue, but that was refused last week by the House Rules Com­mittee. 
Under congressional procedures, bills sent to the House or Senate floor by a conference committee must be voted on as a package and amendments arc not permitted. 
,l .,
. 

loom large. Several Canadian ship­
ping firms have filed notices of their 
intentions to hold the authority 
responsible for their losses. 
Shippers and those who rely on 
the shipping business are losing in I 
1 excess of S1 mltllon a day because of 
1 

the delay, officials said. 
1 
1,

Hensley said authorities will not 
know the cost ofthe repairs until the 
job is completed. 
General Motors Corp. for one, did 
~ 

not wait for the Weiland to reopen to get a stamping press on Its way to a plant In Mansfield, Ohio. A barge 1
,

carrying part of the machinery bypassed the Wetland by way of the 1 
1

shallow New York State Barge Canal 
1

from Oswego, N.Y., arriving in the 
1

Buffalo suburb of Tonawanda, N.Y. 
1

Monday night. The press is to be shipped across Lake Erie to Cleveland for trucking to Mansfield. 
A tugboat that pushed the barge began a return trip through the barge canal, formerly the Erie Canal, on yesterday to pick up another barge-load ofmachinery at Oswego. 
On the Weiland, workers con­tinued clearing debris from the floor of Lock No. 7, which was disabled Oct. 14 when a 180-foot long sec­tion ofconcrete wall collapsed. 

Correction 
Because of a reporting error, an article in yesterday's Observer gave some incorrect Information on a performance Nov. 12 at Saint Mary's. Brian Huskey will be playing acoustic guitar at 8 p.m. In the Chameleon Room of Hag­gar College Center that night. Tickets are free. 
The Observer regrets the er­ror. 

The Observer 
Paper: Sakharov's wife to be freed 
MOSCOW-Yelena Bonner, wife ofNobel Peace Prize laureate Andrei Sakharov, will be released from exile in the Soviet Union and allowed to go to the West for medical treat­ment, a Soviet journalist said yester­day. 
Ifthe report is true, it could signal ·a reversal of Kremlin policy toward Sakharov, the country's best known dissident, and his wife. 
The West German newspaper Bild reported Monday that Bonner, 60, would be allowed to leave the Soviet Union immediately. Soviet journalist Victor Louis, who has close ties with Soviet officials, said he believed the report was authentic and that the United States was her likely destina­tion. 
The Sakharovs were exiled to 

Gorky in 1980 and have been is­
olated there since last year, when 
Saakharovwent on a hunger strike to 
try and get permission for his wife to 
be treated abroad for eye and heart 
ailments. 
Bonner had been allowed to make trips to Moscow until last year when she reportedly was sentenced to five years exile on a charge of spreading anti-Soviet slander and was forced to remain in Gorky. 
In Newton, Mass., Bonner's son­in-law could not confirm the reports, but said, "If she is about to leave, I would expect this to happen today or tomorrow." 
Efrem Yankelevich, who is married to Bonner's _daughter, Tatiana, added that if Sakharov remained in Gorky, "as soon as she has finished medical treatment she will go back to him." 
Since Bonner was reported sen­tenced in August 1984, Louis has been almost the only source of in­formation about the Sakharovs. Louis has supplied media in the West with videotapes of the Sakharovs in Gorky. 
Asked about the West German newspaper's report, Louis said, "As far as I am concerned it is authentic, that she will be allowed to go, that it will not be a one-way ticket, that it is up to her when and where." 
Asked where Bonner might go, Louis said she may go to the United States, or to Italy, where she under­went treatment for glaucoma in 1975, 1977and 1979. 
Wednesday, October 30, 1985-page 6 

Heoidmore I!Ja.rt car~epumpKios 
f/JJ"g 


Showing: 

Devil"s night and Halloween night October 30 and 31 Hall of Engineering 7:00 9:00 11:00 
Aftershock shakes Mexico City 
! MEXICO CITY -A strong tremor r lasting about 25 seconds struck this
,
, 
capital city of 18 million residents , on Tuesday, shaking loose debris from last month's killer quake and
r 
jangling nerves still tense from the earlier ordeal. 
, r 
' 
The quake, considered yet anot­

r 
her aftershock of the Sept. 19 quake that killed 7,000 people, hit at 9:02 
a.m. and was felt as far away as 
Guatemala, about 950 miles to the south. 
The only injuries reported were 1 0 people suffering from what the Red Cross called "nervous crisis" who panicked and ran away from a building that was badly damaged in last month's quake. 
Associated Press photographer Valente Cotera, reporting from the site at the intersection of Eduardo Molina and the Northern 1 Thoroughfare in eastern Mexico 
,f 


Juan 
continuedfrom page 1 
that toppled in a marsh near Hope dale. 
"We don't know a lot about it," Coast Guard Petty Officer Stacey Jaudon said. "We are told that there 
were four men aboard, and the rig ,r master is the only one who escaped."
r 
f 
Three of the missing were aboard crewboats that foundered in the Gulfon Monday, and an unidentified wind surfer was unaccounted for in 
' 
, Lake Pontchartrain north ofNew Or­leans. r 
Five men ·aboard the 100-foot 

r 
r boat Gary Ellen, blown adrift in 20­
r foot seas when its tow line snapped, 
r were found yesterday afternoon, 
r said Coast Guard Petty Officer Keith 
I Spangler. One oil rig sank out in the Gulf. Another went adrift and was blown into a second rig Monday, forcing 82 people to take to escape capsule life boats; one man drowned. 
On land, up to 10 inches of rain had fallen over most of southern Louisiana over three days and Juan blew in flood tides of up to 1 0 feet, flooding communities lying outside levees that ring the cities. 
Louisiana Office for Emergency Preparedness operations officer 
D.C. Jensen said he believed more than 2,000 people had fled their homes. 
But many coastal roads were flooded as early as Saturday night and hundreds were stranded. 
At Lafitte, waterfloated coffins out of mausoleums, and a Morgan City shelter for evacuees had to be evacuated itself. 
An estimated 5,000 to 6,000 Mis­sissippians fled coastal lowlands yes­terdat officials said, and Gov. Bill Allin declared a state ofemergency. 
City, said the victims suffered bruises when they fell while rup­ning. little new damage to the build­ing was visible. 
The Sept. 19 earthquake, measuring 8.1 on the Richter scale, collapsed or severely damaged about 3-,000 buildings. It was followed the next day by a quake measuring 7.5 on the Richter scale. 
Since then, dozens of lesser tremors have hit the capital without causing damage. Tuesday's tremor, stronger than most, registered at least 5.5. 
Mayor Ramon Aguirre, in the first ofwhat the government said will be a series of reports on the devasta­tion, said Monday night that 720,000 tons of rubble have been carted from the city so far. He said food has been provided to more than 50,000 homeless people still living in tem­porary shelters or camps. 
Many who escaped with only 
their lives last month also lost their 
jobs or were already unemployed. 
President Miguel de Ia Madrid has 
said the damage in September was so 
vast that it will take years for 
reconstruction to be completed. 
On Tuesday, lamps swayed and ceiling tiles fell in some already damaged buildings. Clouds of dusts billowed from ruins of the previous quakes. Debris fell in buildings hit earlier. 
The government news agency Notimex said the National Seis­mological Laboratory recorded the quake as registering 5.7 on the Rich­ter scale with its epicenter 235 miles west of the capital in the Pacific off ofMichoacan state. 
The U.S. geological Survey's Na­tional Earthquake Information Center in Golden, Colo., said the quake had a magnitude of 5.5. 

Royal pain 
Diana, Princess ofWales, keeps herdress down In a troublesome wind In Australia. Sbe and husband, Prince Charles, toured Australia this week andpresided over tbe opening ofa fountain. 

FREE DELIVERY
---------·---­
I 
Tuesday 
I 
14", 11tem
I 

I $5.95 
Call before 11 
I 

Wednesday 
SUnday 
I 

16", 11tem , 



$'91.951
$7.95 
Call before11 
Call before 9:30 ~ 
2TIMETONY AWARD WINNER 
JOHN CULLUM
•
G as 

~&il!l9 
On Tour From New York 
.The 
sionate tale of adventure 

This new adaptation features extraordinary set design and sumptuous 17th century costumes. Thursday & Friday, November 14 & 15-8 p.m. EST Morris Civic Auditorium-South Bend Tickets: $23.50 $19.50 $14.50 $1 0.50 
Special Student Dlscount-$5.00 Off Listed Prices Box Office open Monday through Friday 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. TELEPHONE (219) 284-9190 MasterCard & Visa accepted/Group Discounts 
~~ 
ABroadway Theatre League Presentation 
• 
.I. 
P.O. Box 866
0 
0 
South Bend, IN 46624 
' ' • ·,. • i ) •••• ~ • ~ ....· ..·II.· .... ~ ...... .. ' ..~ ••• :. 

Accent 
Wednesday, October 30, 1985-page 7 
What fellow domer would you like in jail? 
LYNNE R. STRAND 
/MtUn!S wrlln' 
H 
as anybody ever gotten 
you so mad that you wanted to 
do something dirty to them? 
Haven't you ever wanted to see 
them in some trouble, with the 
police or campus security? 
Your day has come. 
This is the chance you've been 
waiting for. 
The United Way's annual cam­
paign to raise money at Notre 
Dame/Saint Mary's kicked off Mon· 
day and Its activities include a way 
to lock up your worst enemy, or 
best friend. 
Student government is sponsor­
ing the campaign, along with the 
Student Activities Board, class 
governments, Notre Dame Security, 
Alumni-Senior Club, and each 
dorm. It will run until Saturday. 
"This is an opponunity for stu· dents to contribute to the com­munity they live in," said Co-chairman Mike Huber. "This will be a focus for students." 
Organizer john Kunz describes this "Lock Up a Friend" as a fun time. "One person can pay S5 to arrest anyone on campus." Security wiU arrest your friend and "hold them in the 'drunk cell' at the bot· tom of the football stadium." The 'prisoner' can make as many phone calls as he wants to raise bail · anot· her S'5. 
The Lock Up runs from 7 to 9:30 p.m., "but if the prisoner hasn't found someone to post bail by 10," added Kunz, "the Security guard will let him out then." 
Lock Up a Friend began last night and will continue tonight, as well as next week on Wednesday and Thursday. Applications are now being distributed in the dorms and Lafonune Student Center and must be turned in at the Security office by 6 p.m. on the night ofthere­quested arrest. 

It was Director ofSecurity Rex Rakow who first suggested Lock Up to Student Body President Bill Healy. "Security has given us a lot of support, but we (student govern­ment) will run it," said Kunz. 
"We hope to get a snowballing effect and get the Lock Up going by Wednesday and Thursday ofnext 

United Way Campaign '85 

week. Those will be the big days," 
he added. 
Another captivating attraction planned for this week is the Hal­loween Horror Story Marathon, boasting such campus notables as Vice President for Student Affairs Father David Tyson, Executive Vice President Father William Beauc­hamp, and Vice President of Univer­s!ty Relations William Sexton. 
Domers will not, however, be hearing their president read any eerie phrases, as Father Hesburgh will be out oftown. 
Students are also invited to read provided horror stories for 20· minute time slots. All students who want to panicipate should sign up by Thursday with organizer Laurie Hellen. 
This event will be located in a tent in front ofSouth Dining Hall on Thursday from 8 a.m. to 12 p.m. While "goblins" serve marshmal­lows and doughnuts, people can donate money or merely pledge their United Way contributions. 
Joy,ride through time 
Michele McKeever 
features writer 
T 
he National Theatre of the Deaf 
brought its innovative produc­
tion to Washington Hall last night 
with their performance oftwo short 
st.ories, Akutagawa's "In AGrove" 
and E.B. White's "Farewell, My 
Lovely." The most remarkable 
aspect of the performance lay in the 
blending ofsign language with the 
spoken word. These elements were 
brought out by a lively and 
animated cast who delighted the 
audience of nearly 200. 
The first piece performed by this renowned company was "In a Grove" which Akutagawa adapted from a traditionalJapanese folk tale. It is the story ofa murdctr which was shrouded In deception. The audience is presented with three conflicting testimonies, one ofthem from the victim himself, while the other two are from his wife and his murderer. Through this dramatic device the audience is appointed as both judge and jury in this thriller. 
This tale challenges one to look beyond the surface meaning ofthe dialogue and to determine the motivational forces which act on the characters. Akutagawa ponrays man as a victim ofpassion, as one driven by love, lust, hate, fear, and jealousy. On this tumultuous foundation men must build their lives, trying to deal with this am­biguity inherent in their existence. 

The second piece performed, "Farewell, My Lovely" is based on a shon story by America's beloved humorist E. B. White. This produc­tion takes a whimsical look at human nature while celebrating old time Americana. It is a joyful tribute to the old Ford Model T, the first mass-produced automobile in America, recapturing the spirit of freedom and elation which this new invention gave its proud owners. Of his salute to Americana White said that he intended "to revisit, to try old places and other times in the hope oftasting again the sweet sorrow ofparting." 
"To try old places and other times in the hope oftasting again the sweet sorrow of parting." 
The NTD company stresses that they are a Theatre ofthe Deaf, not for the deaf. The subject matter they deal with is as relevent as the style in which they convey it. Their audiences, made up predominantly ofhearing individuals, enjoy the speech and music as well as the stimulating visual effects, which of course include sign language. The National Theatre ofthe Deafoffers a rare and beautiful synthesis ofthe visual and literary arts. 
Another horrifying event for 
many, eliminations for the all-dorm 
Tug-of-War Tournament, begin 
Monday. Each dorm will needs 10 
representatives for its team in order 
to play. There will also be a qualify­
ing S20 fee. 

This will not be another Billy je;m King vs. Bobby Rigas show­down as men and women's dorms will not be competing against each other. The Friday finale will feature the best north and south quad teams pulling for trophies. 
Other "spirited" events in the 
United Way Campaign include 
door-to-door donations which 
ended today, a donation night at the 
Alumni-Senior Club, gift check 
sales, the showings ofthe movies 
"Hot Dog" and "From Russia With 
Love," and a senior class cocktail 
party. The final event is entitled 
"Dance Your Class Off." 
In conjunction with the cam­
paign, the Student Activities Board 
will be sponsoring the event 
everyone will want to attend -the 
Halloween Costume Party. For a Sl 
donation to United Way, students 
can not only party, they can also 
win a prize every 15 minutes. A 
grand prize will be awarded for the 
best costume. South Dining Hall 
will be spooked out Thursday night 
from 9:30 to 12:30. 
The SAB is also scheduling a Up 
Sync Contest tentatively set for the 
second week in November. Watch 
out Kevin Herbert, there could be 
another Bruce in the wings! 
By giving to the United Way, 
"you're helping your community," 
co-chairman Bob McNamara said, 
for this drive is "the basic fundrais­
ing that suppons activities in South 
Bend." 

"It's much more efticient for one big group to suppon the other 

Oct. 28-30 
Oct.29 
7-10p.m. 
Oct. 30 
9p.m. 
7-10p.m. 
Oct.31 
8-12a.m. 
11 a.m. 
9:30p.m. 
Nov.4 6p.m. 7,9,11 p.m. 
Nov.5 7,9,11 p.m. 
Nov.6 9p.m. 7·10p.m. 
Nov. 7 7·10p.m. 
Nov. 8 9p.m. 
All campus 
Dorms 

Alumni-Senior Club 
All campus 

South .Oinlng Hall Lawn 
Dining Halls 

South Dining Hall 
Outside Dining Halls Engineering Aud. 
Engineering Aud. 
Monogram Room · ACC All campus 
All campus 

To be announced 
groups,"McNamara said. "That way 
they only hit you once." 
He expressed hopes that the student government raise more money than S7400 thc:y raised last year. 
Co-chairman Huber added, "We just want everyone to give want 
Dqqr-tq-Dqqr Dqnatlqns Lqck Up a Friend 
Sr. Bar fqr United Way Lqck Up a Friend 
Hqrrqr Stqry Marathqn Gift Check Sales begin Hallqween Party 
Dqrm Tug-of War "Hqt DCXI · the Mqvle" "Frqm Russia With Lqve" 
Senlqr class cqcktall -.tv• Lqck Up a Friend 
Lqck Up a Friend 
"Dance Yqur Class Off" United Way finale 
they think is comfortable. Ob­
viously, the more they give, the better." 
Those interested in joining the spirit of the United Way Campaign can reach Huber and McNamara at the student government t~~ffice, 239-7668. 


View~_o__i_n__t
___________w_e_d_n_es-da_y_,O-c-to_b_er_3_0_,1_9_8_5-p-ag_e_s 
ND financial well-being has priority over morality 
Notre Dame has approved a new·tnvest­ment policy dealing with South Africa. In all reality, the new policy is only the old policy with a new stipulation; that corporations in 
Eric Bergamo 
across the eighth dimension 
which Notre Dame invests that also invest in South Africa adhere to anew version of the Sullivan Principles that demand the corpora-. tions "take an active part in talking the South 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 

The "typical SMC Chic", we all know her very well. She is introduced to us during the first weeks of freshman year. I met her at my first SYR She was painted on the walls of the dorm, in cartoon form. I didn't really under­stand it at the time, but my date assured me .that it was just a joke. The "joke" explicitly stated that a Saint Mary's girl comes to Notre Dame to meet the "perfect" domer in order to marry him, and create the happy home for him the rest ofhis life. Although my 40-hours-per­week summers and the withdrawals from my father's savings account, would beg to differ: 
S40,000 is a lot to pay -even for the perfect domer; the stereotype survives, proving the "ring by spring" cliche is alive and well. 

Jeanne Grammens 
ask not 
Students all over the country meet their futul'e spouses during theircollege years. This is not unique to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. The assumption that a woman would spend four years ofher life just to obtain a husband is ridiculous. Therefore, we must realize that the sterotype is a joke. The problem on hand (not the left one mind you) is that many women react to these "jokes" inways that are going to hurt them more in the long run. 
I have sensed a growing attitude among women in the 1980s. This attitude isexpressed in classrooms, in movies, in advertising, in daily conversations. The attitude is similar to a chip on our shoulders, and we all know who 

Doonesbury 
IVHAT'5 THf3 MA~, EJA8Y? AMI TALKiN' 7W IIJI)() FOR Y(){)'? 
" 
African government out of apartheid." The Board of Trustees must not have yet realized that talking to the So4th African· government hall not done, and will not do, any substantial good in abolishi,ng apartheid. Constructive engagement has only produced token reforms by the white power structure and no real movement toward the abolishment of"apar­theid. 
I wonder if the administration and .the Board watch the same news on South Africa as "I do. Ifthey do, they must wear rose colored glasses ·when they do. They see a move towards reform and the need for Notre Dame to keep its investments inSouth Africa to help 



Women of the 80's are putting limits on themselves 
gets weighed down by the chip. The Virginia Slims ad captures the attitude well: "You've come a long way baby," and you'd better not blow it. In other . words, if we exhibit any qualities labeled as "feminine," we are afraid we will lose the ground we have gained. We cannot be afra.id to show our feminine qualities. Well, in exaggerated efforts not to "blow it," in efforts to escape from the restric­tions of the past, women are coming dan­gerously close to restricting themselves; this time, we will not have the men to blame. 
In the past, roles were defined for won:.en, and very few dared to cross the line that society drew for them. As our great grandmot­hers will tell us, a women knew her place, it was in the home. In the home, a woman's creative, communicative and organizational skills were limited. Growth wasn't impossible, but it was limited. Society dictated that a "real woman" got married (22 was considered an old maid), raised a family and made her man happy. She could not expect to become as ed­ucated as a man, or dare to work outside the home. Not only did the "woman's place" stifle her potential, but the roles society defined for women were also confining. In the past, . an entire list of etiquettes defined interaction between men and women. Women were put on pedestals, and were expected to stay there. On these pedestals, women were treated like helpless, empty-headed species who were not capable ofparticipation in the "man's world." Through society's definitions of feminity, a woman's potential for internal and external growth was seldom realized. Women of the 
M!3f;Tfii!IIIJTY, I.AM8PI& I MeeT f}ECAlJ5C. '!VUR 
aJHYSHOUIPI"? 
ME! AfJUJO(OIICJ( WITH A 
!JAW'I'SRICH 

MAJOR MaJTH avFER' YWGtJT 
AN/JU/Hfll3 ANI? 

fTUPW/TH 'TWSAYSO? 7HE AI?M/9310N'3 / OFFIC£ 1 
the process along. I see riot police firing rub­ber bullets into a crowd ofmourners for anot­her victim of endless violence. I see police jumping out of boxes on a truck, a new twist to the "Trojan horse,'; and firing shotguns in­discriminately at a band of youths. They see reform and an eventu:il. end to apartheid. I see repression and•state sanctioned racisicm. I see Notre Dame giving consent and recognition to an oppressive regime through its invest­
ments in South Africa. 

Notre Dame prides itself in being a Catholic university and standing up for justice. But this must be pushed aside when money is some­how involved. Notre Dame's financial well­being takes priority over its moral obligation to condemn South Africa and break all ties with this nation. Instead of listening to their hearts, the administration and the Board listen to their collective wallets when the subject is South Africa. 
Many reasons are offered by University President Father Theodore Hesburgh for why Notre Dame should not divest from South Africa. He says that we will lose all our in­fluence over the South African government if we were to divest. Unfortunately Hesburgh, we have little if ;;.ny, influence over what the whites in South Africa will do concerning apartheid. I wonder if the administration is afraid to divest from South Africa, if they are afraid to take the lead in the fight against apar­theid by divesting. Notre Dame should show moral courage ~d fortitude by deciding that Notre Dame will no longer be associated with a nation that advocates raciscm and uses violence to hold the oppressed ofSouth Africa down. Columbia University has become the first major university to completely divest from South Africa. Notre Dame should be the next to do so. 
I have been appalled by the actions of Stu­dent Body President Bill Healy in regards to representing student interests on South Africa. He will not stand up to the administra­tion and tell them fiat out that the student body does not support the policy. But Healy has decided to weakly submit to the ad­ministration and dismissed those two, John Dettling and Pat Baccinari, who stood up to the administration and demanded to know the specifics of Notre Dame's investment policy. Healy is not willing, and far from able, to stand up for the interests ofthe students. 
I applaud the efforts of Professor Peter Walshe in the fight to have Notre Dame divest from South Africa. He is an eloquent and pas­sionate man who is not afraid to say what is true. He has more knowledge of the situation in South Africa and what should be done wi~h it than any in the administration or on the Board ofTrustees. 
The time is now to divest and move away from South Africa. Notre Dame must now ad­mit that constructive engagement has, and al­ways will be, useless in dismantling apartheid. IfNotre Dame continues to support apartheid through investment in South Africa, the Cat­holic reputation may be seriously damaged. The glow of the golden dome of Notre Dame tarnished by this support ofinjustice. 
Eric Bergamo is a sophomore interna­tional relations major at Notre Dame and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
past were not challcpged to be all that they couldbe. 

So what did women do about it? In the 20th century, they got the vote, they entered the workforce and then they burned their bras. Hey, we got lucky. The women of our past opened many doors for us. But where they opened a heavy oak door, we are closing a steel one. 
In reaction to the fear ofsuffering the same limitations of our ancestors, women in the l980s are re-defining the terms offeminity. Ac­cording to many college women, it is only ac­ceptable to strive for a career. Homemaking is not a choice in this definition ofa career. We are telling ourselves that in order to obtain ourcareer, we must abandon the qualities that might be labeled as feminine. We must be ag­gressive, not meek; strong, not weak; indepen­dent, not dependent; unreachable, not vulnerable; logical, not emotional; insensitive, not sensitive. In fact, the closer a woman resembles the qualities once labeled "masculine," the more successful she can 
become. 

In the past, a woman was only successful if she had a family and managed to care for its every need. The new definition ofsuccess is a six letter word: "career." We are merely redefining our "place" once again. We have become intolerable of any woman who feels she could realize her potential in another area, such as caring for a home and children. Just because we fear the past, is not a reason to fit ourselves into another mold. By denying a woman or any human being the opportunity to realize their potential, whether it be in bas-
Garry Trudeau 
lHEE:iACI<
HOIAI'M 
§TUFF's ea<JNb,
I [)()lNG? 
F3UT I 1..1)18 7HE 
\ 
5CEN8 YaiR£ CFCAT/N6. 
\ 

ketweaving, or in weight lifting, is to stick them into a limiting stereotype. 
• Women fought many years to escape the limiting, defined roles society dictated to them. Now we are replacing them with new ones. Women are so afraid of regressing, that they are losing sight of the original problem: escaping any restrictions which stifled our growth. Women today are redefining the chains of restriction, when they stress the ul­timate importance ofhavng acareer, beingag­gressive, assertive, professional and tough. The opportunities for women today are end­less, but the restrictions are coming from a source we never would have imagined. To do our ancestors proud, to finish their liberating efforts, the women in the 1980s must not confine themselves to any stifling definitions. 
jeanne Grammens is a senior government and communications major at Saint Mary's and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
The Viewpoint 
Department 
P.O. Box Q 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Quote of the day 
"Memories may be beautiful and yet, what's too painful to remember -. we simply choose to forget." 
Barbra Streisand 
"The Way We Were" 
(1973) 

"ieVVP-_O_i_n_t~--------------------------------------~W~e~d=ne=s~d~ay~,~O~ct=o=b=er~3~0~,~~9~8~5~~p~ag~e~9 



P.O. Box Q 
Hurley's parents thank community for support 
Dear Editor: 
So many times I have started this letter never satisfied with the way it comes togct· her. There are no eloquent ways to convey our appreciation for the response ofthe Notre Dame community to our recent family tragedy. Notre Dame is a very special com­munity. Together with people from Saint Mary's you have sustained us all through your presence, your prayers and your ever-vigilant sensitivity to our practical needs and emo­tional ups and downs. 
The selfless love and prayerful reaching-out we experienced seem unending and continue to touch us as even now letters, cards, and an­nouncements of events in Kevin's behalf reach us. lltcrc Is no question in our minds that Kevin Is able to continue his fight for recovery because of Divine intervention in response to the earnest prayers raised in his behalf. Although he remains comatose at this time, you would be proud of his apparent determination. 
His future is in the hands of Our Lord and we have long anxious months ahead as we endure the uncertainties of his progress and limitations. We are comforted by you all and pray that Kevin may someday return to Notre Dame as part ofGod's plan for him. 
Know that we regularly read your cards and letters over and over to Kevin. With all you wonderful people pulling for him, Kevin can only win. We all shall win as Christ is among us. 
Dick and Celeste Hurley Dover,Ma. 
ND students should be tolerant of government 
lJear Editor: 
In student government, Bill Healy is my boss. More importantly, he is a close friend. AI: though these facts will make any opinion of mine quite biased, they also provide me a valuable Insight into the current situation as­king for a recall election. 
Impeachment ofa student official, just as of a government official, Is a serious accusation. 'lltus, it should be enacted only after careful consideration. Only three areas come to mind that, found lacking, could possible. warrant such a drastic measure: integrity, motivation and ability. 
After surviving the most scrutinized cam· paign without a blemish, Healy's integrity would seem to command great respect. His recent encounters with The Observer, the Student Senate, and the Anti-Apartheid Net· work illustrate his forthright nature that presents his position in very certain and honest terms. 
To find a more motivated person to accept the duties ofstudent body president would be a very difficult task. Healy spent both his sum­mer vacation and his October break working on student government affairs. He can be found in his office at least thirty hours a week. In addition, he spend~ countless hours away from the office performing his duties. Very few, if any, can boast of this dedication to any job, much less an unpaid one. 
I cannot attempt to list the accomplish­ments ofthe present administration. The high­lights, however, are obvious. The student support for the Hurley family was overwhelm­ing; student government accepted the role of organizing It to produce maximum benefit. The Board of Trustees is looking into a pos­sible overpass or underpass linking the Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary's campuses at the re· quest ofstudent government. A minority con­cerns committee is opening debate into how to best alleviate special problems faced gy minorities on campus. A student government leadership conference brought new insights into the role of student government on campus. The United Way fundralsing drive is underway at this very moment. Clearly, much has been accomplished already for this ad­ministration, especially when compared to previous ones. No reason exists to suggest that this active role will not continue. 
The integrity, motivation, and ability of Healy is unquestionable in my mind as well as in those of whom that know him well. Im­peachment docs not seem the best way to solve the turmoil that is involving many dif­ferent student activities this semester. Tolerance and cooperation would work much better than conflict and discord. 
Bob McNamara Executive Coordinator 

Support for petition urged by the organizers 
Dear Editor: 
On the last Wednesday before break, a group of concerned students gathered toget­her to discuss what could be done about the current shambles called student government. Specifically, they discussed how to jolt the leadership so that some new air could be blown into a seemingly stagnant room. They worked out a solution, and that evening spread out among other students on this campus. In less than I 8 hours they gathered over 600 students' names on a petition to recall the student body president and vice president. In terms of their goal, they reached the 50 percent mark in less than a day. 
At this critical moment, we continue our petition drive and encourage discussion ofthe issues involved in this recall. To those ends, a round-table discussion between Bill Healy, Duane Lawrence and other students has been conceived and arranged. That student discus­sion will convene Wednesday evening in Hayes-Healy. We urge all to attend. 
We feel the round-table will provide an ex­cellent opportunity for our efforts to be reaf­firmed. We favor the forum because it ·will provide Healy and his administration with an opportunity to demonstrate whether or not they are willing and capable to actively voice and channel students' outrage at the childish way we are treated at this University. 
We ask for your continued support if you have already offered it. We ask for your newly felt support if you care to give it. Thanks. 
E.E. Augusttne,Jr. A.M.Ftncb 
S.M. 
Yadlon 

E. 
Tenretro W.A.Krats 


M. Vore Notre Dame students 

Idealists never learn from own past mistakes 
DearEditor: 
Idealists don't learn from their mistakes. Some clamor for Notre Dame to divest itself of South African holdings. They claim it will help the oppressed. Who are they kidding? 
My class at Notre Dame was very sup­portive of the downfall of the white minority Ian Smith government of Rhodesia. A few years later, a new group of Notre Dame stu­dents welcomed the "human rights" move­ment. The human righters aimed their big guns at the Shah ofIran. 
Now it appears that the idealists are working for the downfall of the South African government. Idealists don't learn from their mistakes. 
Mike Nussbaum Notre Dame alumnus 

University must define rules and punishments 
DearEdttor: 
As hopefully many of you have heard by now, there was a recent parietals violation in which both students were suspended from the University. The actions of the University regarding the severity of the punishment and the ambiguity ofdu Lac has raised many ques­tions which we, as students of Notre Dame, have a right to have answered. 
In this case, the couple was discovered by security shortly after 5 a.m. on a night in which parietals ended at 2 a.m. The first ques­tion raised here is the University's definition of"overnight parietals violation." DuLac only states that "Overnight parietal violations In· volve suspensions or dismissal... The vague­ness ofthis statement allows the University to define for itselfwhat is an overnight violation, something which should be clearly stated in du Lac to begin with. I mean, how many times have you heard of a student being dismissed for violating parietals by only 15 minutes? Where should the line to be drawn: 1 hour, 2 
hours, 6 hours? This ambiguity is not fair to the students nor to the committees reviewing such cases for disciplinary action. 
The next question which must be asked is necessity of the severe punishment received by the students. There was no moral issue in· volved in this case, which would appear to be one of the main reasons for dismissal for a parietals violation prescribed in du Lac. Did the University actually feel that the punish­ment was constructive for the individuals, for Notre Dame, for people viewing Notre Dame from the outside? Maybe the University has simply lost touch with what asuspensionfrom a university can mean. What can be more 
traumatic for a 18, 19 or 20-year-old than to 
be suspended from their university? The 
severity of the punishment, when weighed 
with the offense, seems so disproportionate 
that it must be questioned as a effective means 
ofpunishment for such an offense. 
We must also question the University's han­dling of the appeal by the students. When the Judicial Review Board recommended com­munity service after hearing the appeal, the University completely overruled the Board's recommendation and reinstated the original punishment. Does the University recognize the role of the Judicial Review Board? Cer­tainly a compromise could have been worked out which was both disciplinary and benefi­cial for all involved. 
Several things must be done to keep the ex· 
isting problems from getting any worse: 
• Du Lac must be revised. The ambiguity which resides in du Lac js not fair to the stu· dents who must live by its rules. Definitions of offenses must be dearly defined, as well as the punishments. A review of the punishments and their appropriateness to offenses com­mitted must be done to insure that punish· ments are both disciplinary and beneficial to those involved. 
• The University must recognize the Judicial Review Board and its function as an appeal route for students. While the University does not have to accept completely the recom· mendatlons of the Board, compromises in some situations are certainly appropriate. 
By answering these questions, the Univer· sity will tell the students whether it feels that the relationship which exists between the stu­dents and the University is a one way street, or ifit feels that we can work together to enforce rules which are both fair and clear to all who must live by them. 
Frankl. Ury Keenan Hall 

Impeachment of Healy based on irrationality 
vear Editor: 
It seems to me that everyone is jumping on 
the bandwagon to dump Bill Healy because of 
one issue: South Africa. I do not know much 
about Healy's actions on this issue, but I do 
know that it seems rather ridiculous that he 
should be so brutally attacked by a group of 
radicals because of this one issue. These 
people must be extremely bored, or they 
must realize that they cannot win against the 
administration on the South African issue, to 
make such a campaign against Healy. 
It just seems that they are searching for an 
issue, cannot find one, and decide to attack 
Healy for kicks. He seems to be a very hard 
working student body president, and he 
seems to dive in head first on tough issues. I 
am not saying his timing is great, only that he 
is trying to make a difference. I would rather 
have a controversial student body president, 
who is trying to get some things done than 
someone who sits back and does nothing. For 
instance, I think he is right about the Student 
Senate, and I think that most students would agree that the senate is a joke and should be eliminated. 
What I have to say to this group ofstudents who are trying to remove Healy from office is: why don't you find some way to make a positive change at this University like he has? You may call him all kinds of names in the newspaper and you may tell your friends ter­rible things about him, but have you really sat down and looked at what he has tried to ac­complish? Or are you too frustrated in your own inability and you need to pick on someone else to make yourself feel good? Think about it. 
jeffFtoccbi Notre Dame graduate student 


Editorial Board Operations Board 
The ~Obs.erYer-c__~ 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager ...................... David Stephenitch 
P.O. Box 0, Notre De.me, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan Controller........... . ...... William J. Highducheck News Editor ............................................ Frank Lipo Advertising Manager... .. .........Jim Hagan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Systems Manager.. . .... Mark B. Johnson
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Production Manager..... .. ....... John A. Men nell 
administration of e1ther institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­
Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb 
Sible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy 
tanes. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is 
Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy 
available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches 
campus. through letters. is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1966 
~ 
The Observer Wednesday, October 30, 19,85-page 10 
I 
I 




Sports Briefs 
The ND volleyball team. will play host to St. Francis (Ill.) tonight at 7:30p.m. at the ACC.-The Obseroer 
The ND /SMC ski team. will be meeting tonight at 6:30p.m. in the LaFortune tittle Theater. Fund-raising materials will be distributed and $1 00 trip deposits will be collected. For more information call John at 283-4006 or Tony at 283-4057.-The Obser­
ver 

The ND Shenanigans will give a performance today at 3:30 p.m. on Alumni Field before the beginning of the NO soccer game against Valparaiso. -The Obseroer 
The ND Women's Soccer Club will be 
meeting tonight at 6:30 p.m. in the basement of Breen-Phillips. Anyone interested in playing indoor soccer may attend. For more information call Karen at 283-1362 or Kerry at 283-4673. · The Ob­server 

The ND Women's Track Club will hold an 
informational meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the basement of Walsh for those interested in track and/or field events. For more informa­tion call Mary Beth at 277-1983 orJulia at 283-2720. ·The Observer 
The ND Weightand Fitness Club will hold a general meeting tonight at 7:30 p.m. at the New Orleans Room in LaFortune. Anyone interested may attend. -The Obseroer 
The SMC track and field team will be meeting tonight at 8:30p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. All Saint Mary's students who are interested in the varsity track and field team may attend. · The Obseroer 
The ND basketball team. will hold a scrimmage on Saturday at 1 p.m. Free to the public, the scrimmage will be held in the ACC. -The Observer 
see BRIEFS, page 14 

Cards' pitcher suspended by Ueberroth 
As11ociated Pre1111 

NEW YORK-Joaquin Andujar will miss the first 1 0 days of the 1986 season under a suspension imposed yesterday by Commissioner Peter Ueberroth for the Cardinal right­hander's outburst against an umpire in the seventh game of the World Series. 
"Such actions are damaging to the game and cannot be tolerated," Ueberroth said in announcing that he was fining Andujar the maximum $500. 
Andujar was ejected in the fifth in­ning of Sunday's game in Kansas City, won by the Royals 11-0, after he charged American League umpire Don Denkinger to argue over the ump's ball and strike calls. 
The Ohserr·l'r "'otrt· Damt• olfin·. ltKatt•J on tht• thirJ noor of l.ah>r!unt· StuJenr <.enrn. accept' da,,illt-J aJn·ni,in!( from<) J m until ·• p m. \lonJa\ through fnJa, 1hl' Ohst>rr•a ~amt \lan·, office lotatnl on the thm.l noor of Ha~:gar <.ollt"!(l' <.enter. J<Tl'PI' da'"finh from I2 .~11 p m un!ll :1 p m . \ton· Ja\· though FriJa\ Dealllone for nt·xt-Ja\ <la'"fktb " .~ p m .\II da"ofieJ' mu't ht· prc:-paoJ. t•Hht·r in pc:-r"m or h\ mail ( har~otc.: i' I 0 n·nr' pc:-r five charac·


Classifieds 
tc:-rs cr dav 

NOTICES 
TYPINGAVAILA8LE 287-4082 
TYPING CALL CHID D4-IM7 
BUSINESS EXPRESS. INC. 
W~ng.-odtyping 
272-8827 
TYPING 
277-ecMI 
FIIU PICKUP lo DaJVEitY 
TYPING ..... 
P11118n.,_.-. leltara, 
............_ R111a,.... ..-.; plcllup & ..,., .. _..,.... .......... Clll c:.lhy lchullz ..._ ..10 p.llll. 277-1114. 
WINTER IIREAK llkiing 81 Steernbo81 Springe 8l1d Veil from $75, or aunning 81 South Peote lal8nd 8nd 0.yton8 8Mch from IIIII Hurry, C8ll Sune-for more infonn81ion tol lrM 1-800-321·51111 or c:om.ct • Sune-Rapr-tive or your loc8l Tr8vel AQency TOOAYI When your winter brllllk counts ... count on 
Sune-1 
UMAN PLUNGE! 
Start Your Chriatmu Shopping Now...MdCherge it! c.tl8rtan•t3187for your VIM or Meatercerd Applie81ion. 
EXPDT TYPING RRVICE. CALL 
--COKEit, 211-71101. 
LOST/FOUND I 
LOST DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT RING. REWARD OFFERED. PLEASE CON· TACT ALICE 287-7657. 
lo81 I know aomebody found my jMn )8cQt 2WMI<8~~p>ln room 114 Olheg.. lf you foonc:t it I'd rMIIy ~ke it beck ao p1Mee C811764. 
LOST: P--ehaped upphire ring, white gold, 8nd 6 chmonda. If you h8Ve found my ring PLEASE C8l 2122. 
FOUND: SMALL BLACK PURSE WITH NO 1.0. BUT LOTSA DOLLARS. FOUND ONOCT.16ATPARTY AT CORNER OF NAVARRE AND ST. LOUIS. CALL TED AT 2383 TO IDENTIFY. 
TO WHO EVER TOOK MY BACKPAO< • I do not -.how you happened to get it, but 81 ~h8Ve the decency to return my 
NOTES. My beclcp8ck -dirk blue 8l1d d~cklring lunch 10/16 • aouth dining hall. It c:onl8ined ..of my notee for H181ory, Physlca. Emil, 8nd Englilh.lt-., 
--...:18Redlo 8h8ck C8lc:ul8kor 8l1d • ,_booklo. My name 8nd number ..on IIYerythlng in my beclcp8ck. ao n ehould not be dlllcuM to find me. I would rMIIy epprec:jll8 it If t could h8Ve my NOTES beck. If you h8Ve them!"-C8lMIKE81 2380. No queellonl-ed. 
Foond: w-·e -u:h -..rc~ey n1111 on ............_PEa o.-befcntur­notf to PE. 0111 Kerry 11'15081o ldentily. 
LOST: gold '-t-eh8pedpiM}'ring with • tiny ney In the -·GrMI ...rtmen181 
value. If founc:t,p~Mee C8l N8nc:y114214. 
LOST:· A !811, lzod aui1c.e 81 Stepen Center Frid8y night •fler v~on. If you h8Ve it, knOw of -who .X.., or h8Ve _,it, piMM C8ll 1<8thleen Kiley •t 2n-B535. 
LOST: My aurV-IIOITMIWhere bet· -green field 8l1d Grace h...,.the uscgeme. They •e bl8ck, mirrored, 8l1d hiiVe an equ• atripe -the rr.me. 
They •e very eentimen181!!!! c.tl Jim •t 4245. Thenka!! I knew aomaone would return them!! 
FORR 
RENT A COLOR TV OR MICROWAVE OVEN. LOW RATES. COLOR CITY /COLLEGATE RENTALS INC.•25117661 
1 or 2 ROOMMATES needed for Turtle Creek Townhouee. GrMI townhouae, very reMONitole. c.tl2n-2364 
3 BR HOME HAS ROOM FOR 1· non­amolcing GRAD STUDENT.$130/UTIL.232-8327 
WANTED 
WANTED: atudent inlereeted in !1181111g­ing N.D. Women'a Voleytoell TMlTI. Tnlining to begin immedi81aly, luirwpen­aibiMti• to begin 1986 -..Applice­tione mey be filed out in Voleylllll Office, ACC. Oueationa? 23~7 bel-. 2:30 8l1d 6:30. 
Tr8Vel Field Opportunity. Gllln ,......... -"MMIII ~while -"'Ill -.y. CMipue NPIWMIIIIIIVe Medici lllltMdiMalyfGr 
.,....... trip to Flori..Cell .... Nal8on111-ICI0-212-1221. 
GOVERNMENT JOBS. $16,040­$58,230/YR. NOW HIRING. CALL 805­667-6000 EXT. R-11834 FOR CURRENT FEDERAL LIST. 
TAKE THE UMAN PLUNGE! 
KEYBOARD PLAYER NEEDED to com­plete rock bene!. c.tl Fritz 3413 
FOR SALE 
INFLATABLE HALLOWEEN PUMPKINS GREAT DECORATION/GIFT DON 1463 
L.aU GA'e AVAILAkEI L.aU GA'e AVAILA8LEII I h8Ve ov• twer11y LSU GA tickllla for Mle to enyone wtoo ­
them. They •e gneet ....,. but ..going 
f.atl! If you need any of thcoae ticke18 C8ll 
3828 aometime aoon. Any tiekela that 
...,.,bought here •t NO ..to be eokl to 
• h<*d of ,.._.d TIGa F-!! 
FOR SALE • 6 Nllvy GAe.c.tl JMn 284· 4360. 
TICKETS 
NAVYGENEitAL~ 
Two Adjoining tiekela Ce/1233·8803 
NEED PENN aTATE TIXIII 
Wll pay big buckl 
For 2 Penns....GA'a 
llyau'veFtP---Ihl, 
......,...2 
I NEED NAVY a IIIUGM-272-GDII 
NEED ONE STUDENT TIX OR G.A. FOR NAVY WILL PAY $$$. CALL JOHN AT 3258 
Deepenataly need 1 Nevy G.A. or atudent ticket. Cd Jeenne 2862 
FOR SALE-2 NAVY, MISS, & LSU TIX! CALL 233-2163 OR 234-5n8 
HE'a UCKI SELL ME 2 GA'S & AS MANY STD TKS FOR MISS. AS I NEED. THIS MIGHT BE YOUR JACKPOT! CALL NOW! STEVE 3318 
2 50YD Nevy GA'a belt offer by 11 :OOPM 10/30 DAVE 1712 
I NEED 2 NAVY GA'a. CALL DAVE, 272· 
3832. 
NEED2NAVYGA8.1027. 
NAVY: Need 3 tickets, atudenta or GA"a, wil pey BIG $$$. Chu 1023. 
DESPERATELY SEEKING ... Nevy GA'a or atudent tickets. Pteue C8ll Ch• at 
2n3. 
NEED 4 GA'S FOR NAVY OR LSU GAME. CALL 312·951-4167 OR 312· 929-9411 AND ASK FOR JOHN. 
HELP! I need 2 Nevy GAe 8l1d 2 N8vy IIU· dent tix tor aurpriae f8mily viait. Wil P•Y cah 811d/or beer. c.t1 Jeff 2469. 
GltANDIIA DEPAULO WILL aEND UNCLE VITO TO DISLOCATE IIY KNEECAP IF I DON'T GET 1 NAVY TICKET. aoiiEONE HELP liE. CALL 
Jlllx1225. 
NEED Six Navy GA'a. PIMM cd M. Cllrk3347 
I GOT NAVY, MISS., ANDLSU TIX. CALL ERIC 1527. BEST OFFER. 
Need 3 atudent Miu. tix C8l Miuy 284· 5424 
LITTLE BRO COMING TO VISIT NEED 1 NAVYSTUDENTORGACALL284-5455 
IAMDESPERATEFORNAVYTICKETS! PLEASE CALL JULIE 284-4317 
Wil trede Nllvy GAe for 2 Penn St GAe c.tl284·5167 
NEEDED: 4 G.A.'a -tedtogether for ail· her NAVY or MISSISSIPPI. c.tl Vince 81 3262 or 3261. 
NEED A NAVY GA or Student for my BIG Nttle BROTHER.John 2n-1298. 
HEY YOUI You got two NAVY GAe? c.tl 13738l1d meke me en offer. We're IAIIking deeper8tion here. $$$$$$ 
NEED 2 NAVY GA'a (4245) 
I NEED3NAVYGA'S. WILL PAY$. CALL CHRISAT334!1. 
HELP! I need 2Pennllll8tix Celt Rob 112106 
NEED 3 GAe FOR NAVY CALL JOHN 3323 
NEED 4 MISS. GA'S CALL ROD AT 272· 
4504 
I HAVE 4 NAVY GA'S. NEED 2 LSU AND/OR 2 MISS GA'S. CALL JOHN­
1639 
I NEED 1 NAVY STUDENT TICKET ! CALL2460 
4 NAVY G.A.'S FOR SALE. -ta toget­her. Celt Michele 232-7301 
NEED 2 NAVY GA'S CALL 284-5523 
PERSONALS 
···y;;··ihi~k.···;;;;;;;ti~:··;-;,~--~··;;;;;··~ 
dt8gon left. Not one lnve knight, not a ain(lle pl'inc-gliding throuflh NCnlt fl11N3, ench.nting d.-and lwl1flrfliH with heram/111. 
We thinkaometi;,a thatoura ia an 11f18 put fronfin. put 8dvantu-. Deetiny, /fa W8y over the horizon; glowing ehedowa ,-,oped pat long ~~p~, end 
flO"•· 
What • piHaure to be wrong. Prin· c-. kniflhta, enchantmenta end dt8gona, mystery end ad· venture . . . notonly..theyh_.,d­now, they're el thet ever Nved on -'II! 
• Rich•d 88ch, The -..tclge _._
F-• 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N., 1 
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
GLEE CLUB FALL CONCERT ThiaFrid8y·8:15pm Wallington H.. Tickets wil be diatributed •t the LaFonune Record Store Tua. ·Fri.• 12:30 • 4:30 (Umit of 2 per cuatomer) 
F.O.B.I.S. FEST IS COMING!!! F.O.B.I.S. FEST IS COMING!!! F.O.B.I.S. FEST IS COMING!!! F.O.B.I.S. FEST IS COM· lNG I !I 
FASHION VICTI ... FAaHION VICTI ... FAaHION VICTI... NOV. 15. 1985 
THIS IS YOUR CHANCE! VOLUNTEER FOR THE SOUTH BEND ELDERLY • 1 hour 8l1d 17 minute aerioua but fun meeting/workehop/fllm • Wed. Oct 30 
6:30 117 H~~gg~~r. c.tl 239-5279 with queetione. 
Bed &breekfut, footbell weekendl, NO & SMC p•ente. 2 night minimum. 12 mina. from cempua. $47 per night. Calf 291· 6152. 
THE MOST LOVABLE,HUGGABLE,MORALL Y CASUAL ANIMALS ON CAMPUS ARE AT ITAGAIN..THE PET STORE IS COM· lNG TO KEENAN HALL ON 11/2 
STV IS COMING! 
STV IS COMING! 
STV IS COMING! 
I love •nn murphy even though ehe Hk• to drink beerl!l t-•nc:t mj 
HOPE YOUR 8-DAY WAS WONDER· FUL!!l WE LOVE YOU !II MJ AND TESS 
HALLOWEEN PARTY!! HALLOWEEN PARTY!! McCendleee H.. Frid8y Nov.1 9-1;30 $1 •tdoor 
SMC Ride Board 18ke •lookin the H~~gg~~r GllmeRooml 
IETH G IIIAIION HAPPY 2J110 AND KIEP PACKING THT FUDGE! LOVE 1o KIUU JOE OOAKD 
HEY SETH, THAT WAS BETTER THAN A CAKE IN THE FACE ANY DAYII HAPPY BIRTHDAY!tl 
CADET BLAIN-Good Luck on the WPR'a 8nd in the mer81hon! I know you can do it, Dlvellove, CA 

TO THE WISE KORL\IIf olherwiae known • Pomi (the greder) Smith: Happy 20th!!! L-than • y-8l1d you're a LEGAL W01118111! (Although th8t hunever stopped ua before !!!) Miu you like c:rezy • I'm alii the Mme TRON ... rem-ng your f81110Ua wordl: '"lt'a TOO llcidic!! NO!! lt'a not .Odic enough!!!'" A letter wiH 11000 folow !!! .JL8 
Hungry?-C81 YELLOW SUBMARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery houra: 5pm-12pm Mond8y· Thurad8y; 5pm·28m Frid8y; 3pm-1em s.turd8y; 8l1d 4pm-10pm Sun­d8y. 
WAIT-Don't buy th81 Chriatmu gift yet. Reflectione In The Dome ia coming from Juniper Pr-. W81ch for it. 
THANK YOU aT. JUDE 
P-Ica-c-t. with hMdphonea Only 111.10 I 
......XUIICI'e IOiorS23 
Plus the lateat albume from ABC, Rueh, Mr. Miater, •nd more ... Only •t Rock dut..c 
Firat floor LaFonune 
AIDS: ANOTHER IOWAN DISCOVERS SEX 
HEY LIZ-CONGRATS ON FINALLY AS­KING. IT'S OVER, SO RELAX! 
JOBS IN FLORDIA! Corne-" 
Arming The Air Force; Eglin Air Force 
Sue" 31 Oct at 6 p.m. in the Ub. Aud. 
Leern about job oppununitiea, both 
civiti•n 8l1d mililary •t Eglin. lt'a a real 
boom-boom, ahoot-em up fDcl<. Without 
ua the Air Force ia juat an unlchectuled 
airlinee. 

HEY APPALACHIA IINNEM: BEWARE OF THE 4 L'S BECAUSE YOU KNOW WHAT HAPPENED TO EVE WHEN SHE LOOKED, LUNGED, LUSTED. AND YES, LEAPED! 
HEY EX.CON .•. DO I GET MY COOKIES TODAY? IF NOT. YOU KNOW WHAT TONIGHT lSI LYNC,MR.I.f/SCHIF 
With juat the aound of their voicee (8nd aelected p-of the body) THE .oM evoke the aound of • lui bene!." SATURDAY, Nov.l! Wallington H.. Ticketa$2 
Hey Seen McC8rthy, I LOVE YOU!/! Chibley, Chibley 
SMC SNA AND NO PRE-MED SOCIETY ·MASH BASHI· NOV. 1 AT HCC 5-7 pm WEAR YOUR SCRUB SHIRTS! 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE 
FOR A SAVAGE TIME CALL BEAST AND HOG 284·5265 
Jim Upemire turna 19 tod8y. Stop by 128 Fieher (hia home aWIIy from home) tonight. He'l be ~ng hia "Seint Louie C.dinal World Ch•mpione" ehin. 
Happy B-D8y Jim!· M80onna 
Love you Upe, the froah d8te you never 
got 
H8Ve • good one Jimbo, the d8te you got 
Go Hog Mid I 
WANTED: One m8le horee for The Clll· herine the GrMI Society Conlllct Preai­dentOENISE 
POIIISIIITH Happy 20th Binhd8y to my Koreen glob&­trotter, even though you're in •nother hemiaphere I'm aure thia wil get to you. Don't forget to bring me beck my Genuine Indian M8draa blezer •nd ehorte! love Al­oys. Jeffrey 
·················uiiiit.\;·;;a:uNGiE··········..····· 
Appticetione due Thura. Oct.31 T8ke the plunge! UMAN PLUNGE TODA Yl 
UMANPLUNQE 
UMANPLUNQE 
UMANPLUNGE 
Attention Wahington,O.C. .-H IS COlliNGI MeH IS COlliNGI You only h8ve • ,_montha to prepere .. 
Good luck. Bematein! 
Love. Woodwerd 
Swine Fever ... CATCH IT! 
0 Holy St Jude apoatle 8nd mertyr greet in vinue 8nd rich in miredea neer ki,_,., of Jeaua Chriat. Faithful inter.,_,. of .. who invoke your apeciel petronege in time of need. To you h8ve recourM from the depth of my h.-1 8l1d humbly beg whom God hu given auch grut -tocome to my uaial8nc8. Help me in my pr.ant 8l1d urgent petition. In return I promiae to mae your name known 8l1d ceuae you to be invoked. S.y 3 Our F•thn. 3 Hail Mery'a 8l1d 3 Glori•'• for 9 d8ys. Publice­
tione muat be promiaed. Prey for ua 8l1d .. who invoke your aid. Amen. Thia Novena ha never been known to fail. THANK YOU ST. JUDE. 
"Their Playing Our Song" Nov. 38pm O"Laughlin Auditorium $5 Students 8l1d F8CUity $10 Generei Admiuion 
Grey Poupon l.fuatard The c.dlllllc of Condl-
NEAT, HUH?" .J.R. 
The town of SHELBYVILLE IN invitee NO 
to join in the 21at b-dlly ce1e1nt1on of ita 
-citizen DEE-DEE! ll8nd membera. 
h8irylhunchb8cka & boybodiea excluded 
(almoat). FEATURING: The premi..of'" 
IT CAME FROM SHELBYVILLE" Perfor· 
rnancea by: Cinnamon, Mervin O.ye, The 
S... of Blue River 8l1d Dee-Dee in the 
Wet-Tee Shin Conteat!l! (Mr. o·s bethroom, M811in'a perldng lot 8l1d aleep­ing naked on the bun liege -earty the beginningl!l) 
INTRICATE, SOBER, YET HILARIOUS LYRICS" THEIOII8 
•
0 
I• 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE 
OFF.CAMPUITJIIP TO CHICAGO WEDNESDAY. OCT. 30 RESERVE YOUR SPACE NOW CALL RACE AT 272-2471 
OLD IIAN'a DAUGHTEit We loved Boaton, S.m Ad8me, 8l1d Newport. Thenke • mlllonl Ch..al Petuni8, Bil, end Murph 
The Observer Wednesday, October 30, 1985-page 11 

Freshman tight end Andy Heck, shown here car-the bench the past few games. john Coyle profiles rying the ball and a Southern Cal defender in last the talented and enthusiastic player in his story at week's 37-3 Irish victory, bas played a big role off riKht. 
NOTR,E DAME ~~ 
v~. 

VALPRAI60 
OCTOBE~ ~!!! 4=00 P.M. 
(WEDNEoD.AY) ALUMNI FIELD 
tMICHIANA 50CCEe A550CUTION APPRECIATION DAY" DON'T Ml ~ THE DEBUT OF 'JH£ ~N\C,ANSJ 
THE ~ONG .AND DANCE GWUP OF NOli-E DAME BEFORE THE GAME AT 3I 30v.M. 
~®t.f6 
NEKT GAME: 
N.D v~. LOYOLA (CHICAGO) 
FR.ID.AY, NOV. 1~1 -ALUMN\ F\ELt> 2=00 P.M. 
Freshman Heck plays big role at end for ND 
ByJOHN COYLE 
Sports Writer 

Football coaches seldom expect a freshman to have a large impact on a college football team like Notre Dame. The pressure of Division t football, bigger and stronger players, and a new system to learn are all obstacles that a freshman must 
overcome. 

Therefore, it comes as a surprise to most when a largely unknown freshman like Andy Heck is able to adjust so quickly at the collegiate level to make an important contribu­tion to the recent victories of the Irish. . Notre Dame looked to be quite thin at the tight end position coming into this season since it had lost three of its tight ends from 1984 to graduation. Junior Tom Rehder was moved from defensive tackle to tight end last spring to help fill the void, and junior tight end Joel Williams returned to the position where he had seen a bit of action the year before. But offensive coach Mike Stock was still looking for some more help at the position when the players returned in August. 
Stock believed that the 6-6, 235· pound Heck had the talent to help the team immediately but he was not sure that the young freshman could make the quick transition to major college football. 
"He has good feet, good leaping ability, agility and size," says Stock. "Also, he has the flexibility to be both a receiver and a blocker. I felt 
1117 E. South 8enC1 Ave. Iouth ..net. lndlaNI o114137 


(211) 272-4135 

that if he could acclimate himself to 
the system, he would play. He came 
in and has reached beyond our ex­
pectations and has proven himselfto 
be a player." 
The Annandale, Va. resident saw 
only limited acton in the first few 
weeks of the season, but in the last 
two games he has seen considerable 
time as the backup tight end. 
Despite the large crowds and the 
pressure on the Irish to win, Heck 
says he is not nervous when he 
enters the game. 
"In high school I was nervous as hell, but in college it's so fun and ex­citing that I'm more relaxed and really c;:njoy it," says Heck. 
With more practice and game ex. perience, the talented freshman can only become more valuable to the Irish. Stock believes Heck is a quick learner, who is fitting in with the team extremely well. 
"It's only a matter of repitition," 
notes Stock, who is the offensive 
CO()rdinator of the Irish. "He needs 
to improve on his patterns, recog­
nizing coverages, and the blocking 
scheme. He's not a hollerer. He's a 
guy who plays with a fire inside. 
"Andy is somewhat in the back as far as leadership because he's only a ,freshman, but he's in the forefront in competition." 
Heck, meanwhile, has some definite goals for himself and the Notre Dame football team. The Sorin Hall resident has a strong desire to win and wants the Irish back in the major bowls, where he believes they belong. 
"When I walked into that locker room at halftime last Saturday, win­ning 27-0 over U.S.C., and saw those green jerseys, I said to myself, 'this is what it should be like,' says Heck. "This is what I expected when I came to Notre Dame." 
Ifyou are a fan ofthe Irish football 
team, you most certainly have to like 
the way this enthusiastic freshman 
tight end thinkS. 
March of Dimes 
-BIRTH DEFECTS FOUNDATION­
SAYES BABIES 
t*******************1 
!§.U.l!J. U§ lB(DWUUJ(B~ ~ 
:*******************' 
NoTRE DAME 


EN'S RASKITWJ. 
RETURNS 10 1~E A.C.C. $~, ~14, &.{}uvfJtulu: 
fiek,~~~ h!r/4Jt~ f:30-6:00 
LET'S PUSH ~AT 
TiCKEI TOTAL 
OVER 75% 
LErs REsURREc.r 
.,, ""'Ill t1AN 
OF NO'IIlE DAME II 
The Observer Wednesday, October 30, 1985-page 12 

PttcberDwtght Gooden (right) and catcher Gary Carter(left) oftheNew York Mets, shown here after a vtctory last season, both have been named to the 
Gooden tops list ofAP all-stars 
Lou Piniella said of Mattingly. "Take Cal Ripken over St. Louis' Ozzie 
everything into consideration, he's Smith 67-48. 
NEW YORK -New York Yankees the best player in the league right Boston's Wade Boggs' .368 first baseman Don Mattingly and now." average and 240 hits weren't good right-hander Dwight Gooden of the The voters left little doubt about enough, as Kansas City's George the New York Mets, sure to be key who they considered the best Brett won selection at third base by characters in any future Subway pitcher: Dr. K. an 11-vote margin, 63-52. Series scenario, head The Associated Gooden, 20 years old, led the the Brett hit .335 and belted a career­Press' major league AU-Star team. NL in victories; earned run average, high 30 homers while driving in 112 
Gooden, 24-4, was the leading 1.53; complete games, 16; innings runs. He led the AL with a .585 slug­vote-getter with 114 of a possible pitched, 276 2-3; and strikeouts, ging percentage while leading the 11 7 votes cast by a nationwide panel 268. He also reached double figures Royals to a World Series title with of sports writers and broadcasters. in whiffs 11 times, running his his characteristically spectacular Mattingly was next with 107votes in career total to 26. postseason play. results announced yesterday. Mat­"Even when ·he's not getting The three outfield positions went tingly's nearest rival at first base, Bal­double figures, he's amazing," said to the Cardinals' Willie McGee, with timore's Eddie Murray, had seven the Mets' Gary Carter of Gooden. 86 votes; Rickey Henderson of the votes. "When he gets into trouble, how can Yankees, 79 votes; and the Los An­
The closest race was for AP you not be excited by what he can geles Dodgers' Pedro Guerrero, 64 manager of the Year, as Whitey Her­do to bail himselfout?" votes. zog of the St. Louis Cardinals edged John Tudor of the St. Louis Car­McGee topped the highest the Cincinnati Reds' Pete Rose, 44-dinals, who rebounded from a 1-7 previous average for a NL switch­
42. Herzog managed the Cardinals start and went on to win 20 of 21 hitter with a .353 mark to lead the to 1 01 victories, the National League decisions, beat out the Yankees' Ron league. The former record by a pennant, and to within one victory Guidry 80-26 as the top left-handed switch-hitter in the NL was .348 by of a world championship before pitcher. Rose in 1969 and Frankie Frisch in losing to Kansas City. 1923. 
. Mattingly, 24, led the American Carter led the catchers with 75 The relief pitcher spot went, in a League with 145 runs batted in and votes, followed by the White Sox'~ tie at 39 votes each, to Montreal's hit 35 homers while batting .324. Carlton Fisk, with 40. Carter paced Jeff Reardon and Kansas City's Dan His 48 doubles were the most by a the Mets with 32 homers and 100 Quisenberry. Yankee since Lou Gehrig hit 52 in RBI while playingon an injured knee Detroit's Darrell Evans was voted 1927 and Mattingly is the first AL most ofthe season. top designated hitter, edging Oak­player to lead the majors in doubles Tommy Herr ofSt. Louis beat last land's Dave Kingman, 21-17. Evans in consecutive years since Tris year's top vote-getter, Ryne led the AL with 40 homers, and at Speaker completed a four-year run Sandberg of the Chicago Cubs, 84-the age of 38 became the oldest in 1923. 30 at second base and the voters player to lead the league. He was 
"He's one of the best players I've opted for offense over defense at also the first major-leaguer to hit' 40 ever seen," new Yankee Manager shortstop by selecting Baltimore's homers in both leagues. 
Wednesday and Thursday served Nanooks then scored four un­as travel days for the club, which answered tallies in the middle stanza
Irish 

moved on to Fairbanks to play the to set up Steve Whitmore's third­Nanooks. Still seeking the first vic­period clincher which made the
continuedfrompage 16 

tory of the year, the Irish found final9-2. countered with nineteen. themselves pitted against a physical On Saturday night, the Irish of­
The next evening Head Coach club not afraid to take penalties. fense received a pair of goals from 'Lefty' Smith's squad made a go of it Tempers flared, and fifty minutes in both Mooney and McNeill, but the against the same team, but again penalties were dished out by referee defense again failed to contain Fair­wound up losing by three goals. This Chris Walker. banks, which scored an 8-4 win. time, the score was 5-2. The Irish responded to the chal­Notre Dame thus stands at 0-4 as 
After falling behind 2-0, the Irish lenge by grabbing the early lead they prepare for Friday night's home tried to rally around Reilly's goal at when freshman Brian Montgomery opener against Kent State. The Irish 
14:25 of the first period. But Chris scored on a feed from Mike McNeill also will play the Ohio team on LeVasseur beat Guay at 18:49 to put at 7:06 of the first period. Fairbanks, Saturday evening. Both games, as al­Anchorage l>ack up by two, and the however, replied with a trio ofgoals ways, will be played under the north Alaskan team never looked back. before the period ended. The dome ofthe ACC. 
Hockey 
continued from page 16 
past few years. Chapman led the team in scoring Last season with 36 goals and 63 total points. Reilly finished the 1984-85 campaign with 22 goals and 39 assists. 
"Chapman basically led the way for kids to stay at Notre Dame," says Smith. "After dropping to club level, Brent was offered scholarships by four schools, but he felt strongly about what we were trying to ac­complish and stayed on." 
Chapman will play alongside of sophomore center Tom Mooney, who scored 19 goals last year. Senior right wing Jeff Badalich rounds out the first line. 
Sophomore Mark Anquillare will 
center for Reilly and senior left wing 
Dave Waldbillig. 

The Irish also have experience 
along the blue line in senior defen­
seman Bob Thebeau who chipped in 
last season with 19 goalsand 46 total 
points. 

"Bob Thebeau is the key to our defensive success," notes Smith. "He was injured during our trip to Alaska and missed two games. We felt the loss deeply. He's a hard worker and hard-nosed." 
Because of the injury, Thebeau's spot on the first defensive line will be taken by freshman Roy Bemiss who will skate alongside sophomore Mike McNeill. Senior Greg Duncan and sophomore Pat Foley comprise the second line, while sophomores Lance Patten and Frank O'Brien will be the third pair. 
The goaltending position, however, remains unsettled. junior Tim Lukenda (6-11-1, 6.22 goals against) and senior_Marc Guay (2-3­0 6.06) return to the nets, but Jeff Henderson, a transfer from Wiscon­sin, and freshman Mark O'Sullivan are challenging for playing time. 
"All of our goaltenders have worked hard, but none has stood out," comments Smith. "I hope that in the next few weeks the cream will rise to the top." 
This year's schedule is again strong, with home-and-home series with Kent State, Michigan-Dearborn, Alabama-Huntsville and Lake Forest. In addition, the Irish have a berth in the Syracuse Invitational after Christmas. 
"The schedule is outstanding," says Smith. "Everybody would like to play us. We tried to upgrade it from last year. We won't get 20 vic­tories without stepping on the ice. Every game will be a challenge." 
The teams the Irish will meet this year also reflect the philosophy of the Notre Dame hockey program, a balance between academics and ath­letics. 
"It's an excellent schedule for our type of program," notes Smith. "We have the advantage of athletics and academics. The best salesmen for our program are our alumni -both those who have had success in the pro ranks as well as the business schools. The alumni encourage the kids to come because of what they can gain from Notre Dame." 
This year Smith, who embarks upon his eighteenth season behind the boards for Notre Dame, will be aided in recruiting by new assistant coach Tom Carrol, a former assistant at Culver (Ind.) Military Academy. Aside from his recruiting duties, Car­rol will also coach the forwards. 
After an 0-4 road trip in,Alaska, a trip Smith said was a great ex­perience, the Irish open their home season this Friday and Saturday with a pair ofgames against Kent State. 


Erasmus Books 
1027 E. Wayne Tues • Sun, noon • 6 1 block south of Jefferson & Eddy 
Ue.d A -•of pdllt boobbo....t, -ld, ....-c~.d 
STUDENT HAIRCARE SAVINGS! 
,------·COUPON SAVINGS-------. 
!$1 ~:.! STUDE~Iiu~J ~ 
L-------------~~:~~-1 

~ $1 ?e~~ STUDE~J~~l! ! 
r-------------------1

i$5g~~nd~NY p'~r~\~1' ~ 
~------------------~
" so 
J 
YOUR FATHERS MUSTACHE 
FAMILY HAIRCUTTERS 
University Park Mall 277-3770 

The Observer Wednesday, October 30, 1985 -page 13 
SMC tennis team falls in Districts 
By CHRISTINE FORTIN 
Sports Writer 
October break was supposed to he a crucial time for the Saint Mary's tennis team. Not only were the Belles playing tough opponents in the district tournament, but they needed a good showing to qualify any individual players in the national tournament. 
It was not to be, however, for Saint Mary's as it fell to both Saint Francis College and Goshen College to place third in the district tourna­ment over October break. 
Because the BeiJes placed third in 
~ "?> ~ 
-tc SoldstartingThurs.,Oct.31,inthe * -tl AY : 
-tc d. · h 1l l ~ All Donations go to UNITED W !! * 
:*********** 1n1ng a s... 111 *********...* -tl *********************************** 
the district tournament, no one from the team will be playing in the na­tional tournament in the spring. 
"We're disappointed that no one made it to nationals," said coach Debbie l.averie. "But the girls tried hard and gave it their best. What more could a coach ask for?" 
l.averie could ask for little more than what she received, for several of her players made. fine attempts despite coming up short. 
Two Saint Mary's singles players, No. 4 Heather Temofeew and No. 6 Charlene Szajko advanced to the final round, and Szajko was vic­torious in her effort to capture first 
Dunkin Donuts * iC Rector Bust Your Party??? 
* -tl 
Beskin Robins : : Throw them in jail for only $5.00 Neugles Restaurant! t October 30 and November 6 & 7 Domino's Pizza ~ ~ _ Q·OO PM
7. .00 . · 

Godfether's Pizze : 
Putt-Putt Golf : See your United Way Dorm Rep for the.: ~ ~Arrest Warrant and game rules!!! ! 
place in her singles position. Szajko defeated her Goshen opponent, 6-2, 6-2, in the final round. Temofeew, however, fell to her Goshen op­ponent, 6-0, 6-2, in the final round, finishing in second place. 
No. 3 singles player Kim Drahota advanced to the semi-finals in both singles play and, with partner Sheila Campbell, in doubles play. Drahota, both alone and with her partner, however, lost to the players who ul­timately finished in first place. 
The No. 1 doubles team of Brigid Heraty and Anne Dimberio also made it to the semi-final round, but fell to Goshen 7-6,6-1. 

1be Obenvrr/Hannn H~~ekrr

The Notre Dame field hockey team split a four· 
to Valparaiso at 4 p.m. at Cartier Field. Chris 
game road lrlp 011er fall Ur-eak to raise Its record to 
Starkey gl11es all the details at right. 
9·6·2 on the season. Today, the Irish will play host 


lhahMn loobloN ••, Pill 


********************* '********** 
iC ~ -tl
* 

-il
-tl -tl UNITED * :
iC 
* iC -tl * iC iC -tl WAY * iC
il : : 
~ * iC
TRI V IA * iC
* 
iC

* 
:


CHECKs t 
iC
* o..tc
* i' R
United Wayjs selling gift book checkS: ie ooma e ro ems.·· from th~following businesses: : i Pink Sllp Time??? 
Colonl'el Penceke House 
Barnaby's Pizza Noble Ramen's Pizza ~ Pizze Hut 
iC 
: Lee's Ribs : Fermer's Garden -tl Restaurant
iC 
Canyou
Don1 mila ftll 

affordtogamble 
with the LSAT, GMAT, 
GRE,orMCA1? 
*********************** 
NHL standings 
PRINCE OF WALD CONFERENCE ClMENCE CAIIIIPMLL CONFIMJICE AciMie Dtvlllion Smythe Dvlelon 
w L T QF QA Pta. w L T QF QA Pta Quebec 8 1 1432617 Edmonton 7 1 0 41 33 14 Boaton 6 2 1 42 22 t3 5 3 1 45 41 tt
Winnipeg BuHelo 5 3 1 37 25 11 V.noouver 4 4 2 38 36 10 Hel1ford 5 4 0 38 38 10 c.to-Y 4 5 0 44 38 8 Montreal 4 5 0 35 45 8 Lee~ 2 8 0 31 53 4 
P~ck Dlvlelon Nome Dlvlelan Philadelphia 6 2 0 38 21 12 Mlnneeola 3 4 2 41 38 8 
N.y. Rulgera 5 4 0 31 27 10 St. Louie 3 4 1 26 33 7 W.ahington 4 4 2 36 36 10 Chic.go 3 5 1 38 311 7 N.Y.IIIandtn 4 3 1 31 30 II Toronto 1 7 0 27 36 2 NewJerMy 4 5 0 33 35 8 0 8 1 0 22 1
Detroit Plttlburgh 3 4 2 34 37 8 
LMINilht'e.....,llll lloaton 6. New JerMy 4 Hel1ford 4, P1"*"11fl 3 Quebec 6, MontrMI 4 Wahlngton 6, St. Louie 3 LoeAngelee3, N.Y.Ielendenl2 
Irish come home after splitting four out East 
By CHRIS STARKEY 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame field hockey team returns to action this afternoon as it hosts Valparaiso in a 4 p.m. con­test at Cartier Field. 
The game marks the team's first home appearance since Oct. 6 when it hosted Albion. Five away games later, the Irish find themselves with a respectable 9-6-2 record going into today's game, their final regular season contest. 
Head Coach Jill Lindenfeid is op­timistic about her team's chances against Valparaiso. 
"We beat them 9-0 in a scrimmage in September," she says. "Unless they've become incredibly better over the last two months, we should have pretty good success against them. 
"Also, we played the scrimmage on their field. This game is on Cartier Field, and they've never played on artificial turf. That should give us an advantage." 
Lock Up A Friend ! ! ! 
t p b 1 7 7 7 

VOCATION RETREAT Mary's Solitude Prayer Ctr. Saint Mary's Campus 7 p.m. -7 p.m. NOV.lS-16 CONTACT: Sr. Arlene 
18~-559_9_ 
Probably not. Great grades 
; alone may not be enough to ~ impress the grad school of
* your choice. 
! Scores play a part. And ; that's how Stanley H. Kaplan
* 
canhelp.

* 
The Kaplan course teaches ~ test-taking techniques, reviews 

l. 
course subjects. and increases ; the odds that you'll do the best 

* 
youcando.

* 
So if yoti.ve been out of

* 
school for a while and need a 

* 
refresher, or even if you're fresh 


: outofcollege,dowhatoverl 
l ~~~o;a~~~~~~1~~~~~o~ne. 
~ achancewithyour
~ career?
* 
*·KAPLAN ­
l srANLEYH.KAPLANED~cATtoNA~aNTERLm
*
* 
The worlds leadmg 
test prep organization. 
souTH BEND AREA 
Stanley H. Kaplan Ed. Ctr. 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. southBend,lndlana46637 <219)-272•4135 
The Irish have had a busy week heading Into the Valparaiso game. An intense East coast trip over 
midsemester break ended in  two  
Notre  Dame  victories  and  two  
losses.  

The Irish started off with an im· presslve 3·1 win over a competitive Wooster team. In that game, junior Corinne DiGiacomo had all three Notre Dame goals. DiGiacomo, the team's leading scorer last year, drew words ofpraise from Lindenfeld. 
"Corinne really had a nice game," says the Irish coach. "I was quite pleased with her performance, and also with the two assists Mary Wag­ner had playing in a new position." 
Unfortunately for the Irish, however, any momentum gained in the win over Wooster did not carry over to the next game against a very strong Trenton State team. Notre Dame suffered a 3-0 loss in that con­test. 
Notre Dame was able to rebound from this loss, though, and squeak by Franklin & Marshall College, 1-0. Sophomore Benet DeBerry was responsible for the lone tally In that game. 
Finally, the Irish closed out the road trip at .500 when LaSalle regis­tered a 1·0 victory over the Irish. 



The Observer Wednesday, October 30, 1985-page 14 
NVA Grad and Club basketball rosters must 
Soccer 
be submitted to the NVA office in the ACC by Wednesday, Nov. 6. 
continuedfrompage 16
Briefs 
For more information call the NVA office. · The Observer 

continuedfrompage 10 
A pep rally will be held Friday at 7 p.m. in Stepan Center. Guest speakers will include members of the 1945 football team and Inside Unebacker Coach George Kelly. ·The Observer 
SMC intramuraltennis tournament entries will be accepted at the Angela Athletic Facility until Friday. Both singles and doubles matches will be played. -The Observer 
SMC aerobic classes will be held beginning Monday and running through to the end of the semester. Classes will meet from 10-10:55 p.m. Monday and Wednesday, and from 5-6 p.m. Tuesday and Thursday. The entry fee of S5 will be accepted at the Angela Athletic Facility. -The Observer 
A Red Cross water safety instructor course sponsored by NVAwill hold an organization meeting on Monday at 7 
p.m. at Room 218 of the Rockne Memorial Building. For more in­formation about the course call the NVA office. · The Observer 
An NVAweight trainingworkshop will be 
held Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the Rockne Weight Room. Gacy Weil, strength and conditioning coach, will be on hand to demonstrate proper techniques. For more information call the NVA office.· The Observer 
NVA interhall basketball rosters must be sub­mitted to the NVA office in the ACC by Wednesday, Nov. 6. There is a S25 entry fee for men's teams and a S20entry fee for women's teams. Foe more information call the NVA office. · The Observer 
SAB~ 





F.OBIS FEST 
Nr~t a+ ~e.. ~\-C3en\o~ q~u~.
''Dt-ir\k) ~ Unit~ ---; J 11 
WEDNES0/11\Y Oc..T. 3o 1-h 
q:oo,...-2:ooam • Q \\2-~ ''evat1C • 
r,...---------clipand save ------------, 
,.N.AUGLES® ~~'J~~~y6:00· Midnight 272-5455 
I 501 Dlxleway North. Roseland. Indiana
I NAUGLES TO YOUR DORM!! 
I MEXICAN KITCHEN AMERICAN KITCHEN 
I 
Reg. Hamburger• · 4 to a -pound

I CUSTOM GRD...LED NOT STOCK PilEDTaco 1.09 1.69 
Burritos Naugleburger 1.99
•I I 
Bean 1.79 2.49 
2 Patties with the W<Xks Meat 2.39 3.29 
double cheese 

Combo 2.09 2.79 Cheeoe 1.89 2.59 Deluxe Hamburger 1.39 Make any burrito wet for 50 cents!!
I 
2 Patties with lettuce, 
tomato, mayo dressing P.S. Don't order macho unless you're ready for a 

pound of goodies!
I 
Hamburger 1.19 I 2 Patties with pickle, ketchup, 
Nacho• &.Cheeae 1.19 Have some sauce for no extra charge to sp\ce them 
mustard, onkm add cheese .20 

up that much more. 
~ 
i Mocho Nocho"o 2.19 DESSERTS Refned beans, chips. cheese, peppers, mild meat 

Hot Fudge • Hot Caramel • Strcwberry • OrarlQI! 
Bluebeny • Chocolate • Chmy • Vanilla • Root Beer Toatada Grande 3.29 Shokeo 1.09 (In a shell · wonderful) 
sauce, spicy ~ sauce! 
Fudge Brownie .69 Mexican Salad 1.29 2.89 


Pa•try .69 To•tada Combo 1.59 2.09 
Fudge Brownie Sundaa 1.69 Chile Ole" .99 2.39 Taco Sandwich 1.49 2.59 
DRINK UP! 

Chicken Sandwich 1.74 2.84 
Cold Bevera-

Platter Assortment of sauces & side orders. 
12 oz.•.64 20 oz.•.79 32 oz...94

Want If a special way just ordeJ Ill Pepsi. Diet Pepsi. Root Beer. Mt. Dew Enchllodo"a (Platter of 21 Dr. Pepper. Welches. Sunkist. Lemonade Meat -k>tza sauce & cheew 2.00 
lee Tea, M~k. Orange Ju;ce Chicken 2.50 
Hot Beveragee • .47 

DINNERS Coffee, Hot Chocolate, Hot Tea #I Enchllodo -I chicken. 1 beef 
"2 Macho Taco SIDE ORDERS 
"3 Meat Burrito French Frte• .99 "4 CheeH Burrllo & Taco 
Refrled Beane .99 with chili •auce .99 

Complete with Mexican salad, rehied beans, chill & Nacho Chip• . .39
cheese, guacarnc:He. sour cream & a pile of chips. 
Guacamole Fresh, Fresh. Fresh .89 Adinner with ~left owr for tomonow's LUNCH! 
Sour Cream .25 
4.79 Extra chene for anything .50 

Plus tax on prices -$5.00 mtnlr.lum order 
~-----------·clip and save ·-----------1 
NVA interhall hockey rosters must be submitted to the NVA office in the ACC by Wednesday, Nov. 6. There is a team entry fee of $35 to be submitted with a roster. For more information call the NVA office. -The Observer 
NV A table tennis tournament registrations 
must be submitted to the NVA office in the ACC by Wednesday, Nov. 
6. The tournament is open to students, staff, and faculty, and will be single elimination. For more information call the NVA office.· The Observer 
NVA squash tournament registrations must be submitted to the NVA office in the ACC by Wednesday, Nov. 6. The tournament is open to students and faculty. For more information call the NVA office. -The Observer 
An NVA team turkey shoot will be held Nov. 18-19 from 4:30-6:00p.m. at the stadium rifle range by Gate 14. Teams must be comprised oftwo men and two women, and reserva­tions must be made by Nov. 14. To reserve a time or to get more information call the NVA office. -The Observer 
NVA Century Club is a program to promote in­dividual exercise and fitness. Applicants select an exercise and pledge a personal fitness goal. When the applicant reaches his/her goal, a free Club T-shirt will be given out. To fill out a pledge card or to get more information call the NVA office. · The Observer 
NV A fitness focus newsletter is published monthly and is available through campus mail at no expense. To be placed on the mailing list call the NVA at 239-5100. · The Observer 
the caliber of competition we've played, it really helped our play against Charlotte." 
The Irish soccer team has measured themselves against some of the toughest competition in the country, and it is obvious that this has lead to a great deal of learning and progressing for all involved. 
"We've played some good soccer against some great teams," said Grace. "The fans may not be happy with the record, but you can't fool the players. I have no second doubts about putting together the most dif­ficult schedule possible." 
On Wednesday, the Irish will be playing Valparaiso, and on Friday they will face Loyola (Ill.) in their final game of the season. As the schedule draws to a close, Grace says that he's optimistic about next season. 
"The team has made some strides this year and we'll try and continue this improvement next year. We're getting better and better". 







~4(Jt~C3L~--------------------------------------W~e~d;n~e;sd~a~y~,;O~c~to;b~e;r~3~0~,~1~9~8~5--!p:a~ge~1~5
Bloom County 
1/H.. •wrALUfJl.f exaunv€ TYF£ SC€K5 P€RKY 811/JE. Wff)'5 INTO Ctf/ININ& F(.()()/?S, flf/51"/NG, CHf£P fl£1/f<fN&, COOKtN&, Pe'R­~ff/1/t. CHECRf(Jt.fo/eSS IWP 
API'f?cCfArtNG Jt/ST WhrJ Tllf 1'.€1/f?S Tilt f'IINTS IN THe fllfrffl Y:" 
Zeto 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Attic 5 Fuel vessel 
10 Gadfly 14 A Gardner 15 Unique 16 "-Want Is 
You" 17 Author Seton 16 Escape 20 Sheriff's 
helpers 22 Silly 23 Sneaky one 26 Eng. air Ioree 27 Turk 28 Negligent 31 Mark down 32 Acted the ham 34 Portico 36 Mink's relation 38 Tlnyblt 39 Den 40 Lager 41 Meal 43 Fabray to 
friends 44 Adorned 46 Browns bread 48 Roost 49 Tenet 50 Lineament 53 Kind ol race 56 Swindler 59 Since In 
Glasgow 60 James -Jones 61 Inventor Howe 62 Memphis' 
state: abbr. 63 Fencing sword 64 Obtuse 65 Crude metals 
DOWN 1 Bound 2 Ultimatum 
words 3 Insect's 
nemesis 4 Goat-getter 5 Dolt 6 Not up to par 7 True 8 Tolkien 
creatures 9 Employed again 

©1985 Tnbune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 1n/~0/85
Tuesday's Solution 

10 Appeaser 
11 N.C. college  
12-gin  
13 Pourboire  
19 Hindu land  
grant  
21 Consumer  
24 Missile type  
25 Eaten away  
27 Hauled  
28 Payment of  
sorts  
29 Daredevil  
pilot  
30 Fizz drinks  
31 Chore  
33 Spigot  
35 Author Rand  
37 That can be  10/30/85  
deleted  
39 Step  
41 Adjusted a  
plano  
42 Sun  50 Swing looaely  55 Urges  
45 Ruth  51 Jane­ 58 Charge  
47 Takes care of  52 Irritate  57 Owns  
49 Initiate  54 -of Cleves  58 Lao-­ 

FINE. 
NO Pf?06lflr1. 
7HIIT'I.t. 8€ 
M:U. Jt/51 5Mue -$17.50. IT Hff<f AN/l 77£1?€ •• 1/H. HOW'S 1HI5,.? 
YeAH, &ur'rWCOUL.O HAVE" AT L-eAST HIN ASOOT IT. 
R7LAA PE"oPL.E, ITS ON(..'!' ALIT 
rcsrOF ~R 
ASSI8NEl> RE"ADIN$. 


Berke Breathed The Far Side 
•Wllf<ll C£.61/Vef?. S€cKS Jf/N€ aeAV€f(." 
Kevin Walsh 
/( II 
Ltrn.c TEST? so NOW ITS A TeSr! W'HY DON'T "YtXJ 60 AriEAt> AND CALL IT PN E"l'AM ANt> FW"'K US ALL?! 
Campus 
•6:15 
P.M.-Meedna, Center for Social Con· cerns, Sponaored by Circle K 

•7:00 
P.M. -Fellcnnldp Meedna, Keenan Chapel, Sponaored by Spiritual Rock of Notre 


Dame 
TV Tonight 
6:00P.M.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 EycwitneiiS News  
6:30P.M.  16  NBC Nightly News  
22  CBS Evening News  
7:00P.M.  16  MASH  
22  WKRP In Cincinnati  
7:30P.M.  16  Barney Miller  
22  Three's Company  
8:00P.M.  16  Highway To Heaven  
22  CBS  Special:  "Garfield's  Hal·  
loween Adventure"  
28,.  The Insiders uNew York  City  Opera:  

LaRondine"  
8:30P.M.  22 46  CBS Special: "It's The Pumpkin, Charlie Brown" Renewed Mind  
9:00P.M.  16 22 28 46  Helltown Charlie and Company Dynasty Lcsea Fall Telethon  

Great 
Quaslmodo ends his day. 
•7:00 P.M. -Preaentatlon and Reception, Pint Nadonal Bank ofChicago, Alumni Room, Morria Inn. Sponsored by Career and Place· ment Services, Open to Arts and Letters Senion interested in career opportunities witb Pint National Bank ofChicago 
9:30P.M. !O:OOP.M. 
10:30P.M. ll:OOP.M. 
11:30P.M. 
!2:00A.M. !2:30A.M. 2:00A.M. 
22 George Bums' Comedy Week 
16 St. Ebewhere 22 ~Equalizer 28 Hotel 46 Calvary Temple 
46 Everlasting Gospel 
16 NewsCcnter 16 22 22 EycwitnCIIS News 28 Ncwswatch 28
,. 
Body Electric 46 Lesea Fall Telethon 
16  Tonight Show  
22  TJ.  Hooker/CBS  Late  
"Amber Waves"  

28 ABC News Nightline 
,. 
Film Du]our: "Picture ofDorian Gray" 
28 Eye On Hollywood 16 David Letterman Show 22 Nlghtwatch 
Movie: 

!***************************************************** 
:Transfers :Now that all the welcomes have died down, and you're: 
*Best Wishes as you continue your first semester! (Transfer Club * 
:*  returning to N.D, we would like you to know that we are still very anxious to help out with-any problems. Please feel free to call us  ~ :  
~  or stop by 2nd floor LaFortune if you need help.  :  
: *  Mike Huber-Transfer Club President: (o}239-7668, 283-5389 Bill Healy-Student Body President: (o)239-6111 ,283-1601.  a ~  

: : T-Shirts on sale in Student Government Offices! ) ~ 
******************************************************" 
tlt.\lG~~sNeeds Drivers!!! 
CALL TODAV!! (Business is Booming) (apply In person) 

Dinner Menus 
NocreDeme Veal Parmesan Spaghetti ct: Sbe.lJa with Meatballs Broccoli Cheese Cuac:role Sausage Pepper Grinder 
Selot M8rf'• Philadelphia Skak Sandwich Spaghetti with Meat or Marinara Sauce 
Spinach and Cheese Casserole Poached Fish 

Wednesday, October 30, 1985-page 16
SRorts 
Notre Dame hockey team ready to take the ice 
Soccer team goes 1-2 over southern trip on break 
By CHRIS KOSTER in a goal early in the first half. The to meet their next opponent, the Irish paid off in the third game on knocked U.N.C. out of the N.C.A.A.. Sports Writer score was contributed by freshman University of Southern Florida on Oct. 25. On a day when Notre Dame tournament hopes with an emo· strikerJoe Sternberg, with the assist October 22. Southern Florida lead was onceagain outshot( 19-3 ), Bres­tional vict<Jry. 
While most students were enjoy­coming from senior co-captain the first half 1·0, and later connected lin pulled down 11 difficult saves to Grace, in his second year at the ing a week of relaxation, the Notre David Miles. with two more goals in the second preserve a 1·0 victory against· the Irish helm, said he felt the team Dame soccer team was characteristi· The remainder of the game, half of play to forge the 3-0 final. south's sixth-ranked team, the Uni­played the best they possibly could, cally working hard in three away however, was all Central Florida's as "We just went up against a versity of North Carolina at Char­and was very happy to end the week games during the break. In constant they dominated play and outshot the tremendous soccer team." said lotte. on a positive note. pursuit of the best competition it Irish, 18-6. Despite some staunch Grace. The lone Irish goal came at 1:42 "We picked up momentum in can find, the team was not disap­goaltending by Hugh Breslin, the The Bulls certainly played a into the first half from the foot of Charlottesville," he noted. "If we pointed when it played tough games Knights were able to come away tremendous game against the Irish, Bruce "Tiger" McCourt, with the maintain the intensity we had, we'll at Central Florida, Southern Florida, with a 6-1 victory. outshooting them by a 25-5 margin. crucial score beil}g-assisted by be pleased with the end of the and the University ofNorth Carolina "We had a lot of bad breaks that The scoring would have been more striker David Miles. Charlotte later season. at Charlotte. hurt us in that game," said Notre damaging, though, if it were not for provoked some tense moments by " When you win against such a 
1be week began with the Irish Dame head coach Dennis Grace. the brilliant play of Breslin, who hitting the crossbarfive timesand by good team, it makes you feel lilcing a long game against the Uni­"We played well, however (the made I 0 saves in the Notre Dame putting continous pressure in the everything was worthwhile. Be­versity of Central Fla.. 1be Oct. 20 Knights) were more successful with goal. Notre Dame halfofthe field. Release cause ofthe quality of the teams and game started out very well for Notre everything they did against us." Breslin's hard work and deter­finally came when the final whistle Dame as the team was able to punch From there the team stayed south mination anchoring the goal for the blew and the Irish had sucessfully 
see SOCCER, page 14 

Lower arena seats gone for basketball season 
ByJEFF BLUMB no need to worry about the ticket Sports Editor office running out. He estimates that approximately 2,300 more students 
Distribution ofstudent basketball could be accommodated if neces· tickets continues today, but fresh­sary. men and sophomores planning to Bobinski did admit more than a get lower arena seats will be disap­little surprise at the number of tick· pointed. As of 3:30 yesterday after­ets sold the first two days. Last year noon, all I,575 padded seats the senior class bought only section avallable to students, spanning sec­two and part ofsection three, when tions two to six ofthe ACC, had been 3,100 total tickets were sold to aU sold. classes. 
Sophomores, graduate and law Notre Dame basketball coach Dig­students are scheduled to pick up ger Phelps last night expressed his their tickets today from 1:30-6 p.m. pleasure with the large number of at Gate 3 of the ACC. Freshmen are student tickets sold the first two to pick up their tickets tomorrow at days. the same time and place. Both "The students did a great job sup· groups will have only the 139 bleac­porting us last season and I'm happy 


/ji.
her seats available to them, as the that there's going to be so many of junior and senior classes bought up them there this year," Phelps said. "I 
,
all of the S52 lower arena seats on think they know what this team can Monday and Tuesday. be after seeing what we did in the NCAA Tournament last season 
Notre Dame Ticket Manager Mike against Oregon State and North Bobinski estimates that ap­Carolina. proximately 2,000 total tickets were "We didn't lose any starters from sold the first two days. On Monday, that team, and so everyone believes the seniors purchased all ofsections in us heading into this season. Plus, two, three, four, and much of five. we have David Rivers, who got The juniors bought the rest of that everyone excited with his play last section and all ofsection six yester­year." day. Nearly all of section 102 in the Upperclassmen who did not pur· upperarena was purchased between chase tickets on their assigned day 
Senior midfielder Chris Telk, shown here in ac­
the two classes, as well. may do so today or tomorrow, and 
tion earlier this season, and the rest of the 'Notre 
What remains is all ofthe bleacher anyone failing to do so either day 
Dame soccer team traveled to Florida over fall
seats in sections 103-108. For those will be able to on Friday in the ticket 
break to play three tough southern teams. Although 
students who have yet to purchase office on the second Ooor of the 
Head Coach Dennis Grace's squad couldput away
their tickets, Bobinski says there is ACC. 
l"lleObo-.r/Poote l.acheo ' 
only one victory, the experience J:ieip the Irish as they prepare to close out their season with home games today and Friday. Chris Koster gives all the details in his story above. 
ND has foundation to build for future 
ByDENNIS CORRIGAN 
Sports Writer 
Once again, the Notre Dame hockey team is facing a season of rebuilding. Fortunately, the Irish have an ex­perienced foundation tobuild on in their secondseason ofvarsity play after a year ofclub status. In addition, the team is bolstered by a good crop ofnewcomers. 
"We have to try and rebuild and make ourselves as strong as possible," says Head Coach Charles 'Lefty' Smith. "Our first batchofrecruits last year really gave us a shot in the arm. Tim Reilly and Brent Chapmangetting into the MBA program and coming out to play is also a shot in the arm. 
"We can improve over last year's record (11-16-1). I realize we've got quite a challenge. We're competing with teams that do award scholarships. I'm encouraged by our attitude, the number of kids that came out for practice and the work ethic they've shown." 
Granted fifth years ofeligibilty because ofthe year at 
club level, left wing Chapman and right wing Reilly 
figure to lead the Irish offensive attack as they have the 
see HOCKEY, page 12 


Irish lose four games in Alaska over break 
ByBILL IRVIN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team "went north" over fall break as it traveled to Alaska for its first competition of the 1985-86 season. 
The scenery, however, proved to be more enjoyable than the hockey as the Irish dropped a pair of games, one to the University of Alaska-Anchorage and one to the University ofAlaska-Fairbanks. 
Notre Dame began the trip Monday night in Anchorage, with senior Marc Guay getting the starting bid in the nets. Although Guay gave up two early scores, the Irish received power-play goals from Tim Reilly and Tom Mooney to stay even at 2-2 after one period. Notre Dame then took a 3-2 lead at 2:53 ofthe second period when freshman Roy Bemiss scored the first goal of his Irish career. Mooney and winger Brent Chapman picked up assists on the go-ahead goal by Bemiss. 
The state of affairs deteriorated in the third period, however, as Anchorage popped in four unanswered goals to trounce the Irish, 6-3. In the final stanza, Notre Dame managed only five shots on goal while Anchorage 
see IRISH, page 12 





