
Football Notebook-p~ge ~0 


English diplomat in Beirut seeking release of hostages 
Aaaodated Preas 
Uf.' J< I"T. l.t·hanon -Terry Waite, tht· r,·hhi~hop of Canterbury's spe­dalt·missarv. arnved here yesterday on a rnis~1• 111 ro negotiate the release of :\ml rilan hoMages held by Shiite Moslem extremists. 
"I'm here on humanitarian grounds because I want to see a resolution to this problem ... and because I see some hope," the 6­foot-7-inch Waill" told reportl"rs on arrival. 
Lc:bant·sc security guards and militiamen at the airport whisked tht· hurly envoy through a scram­bling throng of reporters and televi­sion crews. 
He was taken through the terminal, ringed by militiamen linking arms, without immigration formalities. Yelling guards bundled Waite into a sedan. The car sped away with a rifle-toting militiamen hanging out the window and Waite jammed in the back seat between militiamen. 
Before leaving London, Waite termed his mission the most dan­gl"rous he has undertaken. He is an experienced negotiator: Waite, 46, has secured the release of captive Britons held In Iran and libya. 
Waite embarked on his latest mis­sion after making contact with an unidentified intermediary in Beirut over the missing Americans. 
Waite is a spcdal adviser to Archbishop of Canterbury Robert Runcie, the spiritual head of the Church of England. Runde said Tuesday Waite was "a joint envoy" of his church and Pope John Paul II, "and the pope is corresponding with 
u~." 
But the Vatican spokesman Joa­quin Navarro said yesterday that while the pope was aware ofWaite's mission and hoped he would succeed, Waite could not be con­sidered a papal envoy. 
Waite told reporters at London's Heathrow Airport, "The messages I have received contain something of hope, something ofa threat and a bit in between." 
He added, "I've got a chance be­cause I've got a contact." The con­tact had "intensified in the last few days," he said. 
Waite was not promising a breakthrough, though. "On previous occasions there has been an iden­tifiable person or group or govern­ment to deal with. This timt· it Is much more diffuse and therefore this time it is much more difficult and much more danserous." 
Six Americans are missing in Lebanon, but only four signed letters of appeal sent last week to Runcle and President Reagan. 
Islamic Jihad, a fundamentalist Moslem group that has claimed responsibility for abducting the Americans, said Oct. 4 it killed one ofthe six, diplomat William Buckley, in retaliation for Israel's air strike on Palestine liberation Organization headquarters In Tunisia. 
It released blurred photographs of a body·said to be Buckley's, but U.S. officials say there Is no proof-Buck· Icy is dead. There has been no recent mention of another hostage, American University librarian Peter 
.Kilburn. 
The letters, delivered Friday to The Associated Press bureau in Beirut, were signed by the Father Lawrence Jenco, a Roman Catholic priest; Terry Anderson, chief Middle East correspondent for the AP; and two Qfficials of Beirut's American University, hospital Director David Jacobsen and agriculture Dean Thomas Sutherland. 


Arp>nne' National Uboratory l'boto
Weird Science 
A new instrument to measure radiation created when atomic particles collide is fine-tuned by RobertJanssens, a physicist at Argonne National Laboratory. The new instrument, being built in collaboration with Notre Dame, will be used to study the basic structure and reactions ofthe core ofthe atom. 
Pessimism marks U.S. attitude in summit talks 
Aaaoclated Pre1111 
WASHINGTON -Whatever the outcome, President Reagan is likely to return from the superpower sum­mit with a big surge in his popularity at home and a newly polished image as being more of a peacemaker than a hardliner toward the Soviet Union. 
But even before he leaves for Geneva, the president is playing down expectations, ruling out any agreement on arms control, saying he's "not a great fan of com­muniques" and using words like ''I'm not pessimistic." 
Absent any accord, however, the mere fact that a president meets with the Soviet leader pays good dividends, according to presidential scholars. 
"It's a no-lose proposition," said Stephen Hess, a senior kllow at the Brookings Institution who has worked for Presidents Nixon, Ford and Eisenhower. 
"Even when a summit doesn't produce anything. the president gains" from "a rally-around-the-flag syndrome," Hess said. 
Lyndon B. Johnson, for example, came away virtually empty-handed from the Glassboro, NJ., summit with Alexei Kosygin in 1967, yet his popularity rating shot up I I points, Hess recalled. 
Professor Stephen Wayne, a specialist on the presidency at George Washington University, said Reagan should see his already high popularity rating increase by '5 to 10 percent. at least for the short term. 
He predicted, however, the surge in polls eventually would recede If no major accomplishment emerges from the meeting. 
With the superpowers deeply divided over space weapons and missile defenses, it appears virtually certain there will be no agreement at the summit on arms control. Reagan has expressed hopes the summit will send "a signal" to spur
. 
see SUMMIT, page 3 


SMC society e·ncourages students to develop businesses 
By DIANE SCHROEDER formation for others who are in­Professor William Shannon, the business management and to lectlng and investingclub dues and StaffReporter terested in starting their own club's moderator, is also president develop their skills in those areas," determining costs and how to business. ofthe Small Business Development he said. generate revenue. Spellman said 
TI1e newly:formed Society for The type of business has not Center in South Bend. Shannon The new club, Raleigh said, is af­she will be working closely with Entrepreneurship and New been determined yet, but, accord­said the center will provide in­filiated with the Association ofCol­Professor Michael Robinson, the Venture will allow young ing to Raleigh, that decision will be terested club members with mini· legiate Entrepreneurs, which is club's financial assistant. entrepreneurs at Saint Mary's to try left up to the students at Saint internships, beginning next based at the U niversiry ofKansas in Other faculry from the business their hand at managing their own semester. The internships are Wichita. ACE relies on a computer department involved with the club 
business. Mary's. A survey will be distributed designed to give students ex­network which "nables participat­include Professor Susan Vance and 
randomly early next week, and perience in dealing with real busi­ing colleges and universities to ProfessorJohn Rube. 
Christine Raleigh, Denise Spel­from those results the club wlll ness situations, he added. communicate and share ideas with lman, Gerri Connelly, and Chris decide what type of service will each other. Shannon and Raleigh both said Bulke are heading an effort to best benefit the College. According to Shannon, SENV has student support is important for
The Saint Mary's club officers
develop a campus business which an "excellent" potential for the club's success.
will be attending a regional con·
will benefit both students and the "This is going to be a serious success at Saint Mary's. "Since "The club is not only for busi­
ference in Chicago Saturday where
College in general by keeping the business venture," said Spellman. 1980, women have been creating ness students. Anyone interested is
they will discuss becoming part of 
money earned by the business wit· "We plan to compete with bids small businesses at twice the rate encouraged to share their ideas
the ACE computer network.

bin the Saint Mary's community. from town as well." of their male counterparts. Busi· and talents," said Raleigh. "This 
ness used to be considered a man's Spellman. who is one of three cluh can benefit students from any 
The purpose ofSENV is two-fold, "There Is so much opportunity," world, but that has all changed and vice prt'sidt·nts of tht· soc1cty anti area of Mudv.'· Raleigh said. First, members take said club President Raleigh. "We more women tha•. ever are entl"r­is in chanw of finann·s. has hrt·n creativity generated by student In· have a real potential for success, ing into busines10 and management ou.,~ laymg the bas1c groundwork The next meeting for all in­put and apply it to a student-run because the need is there, ·and we .,,.c,·~s~rv to begin a business. terested in entrepreneurship will business on campus. Second, the are prepared to meet that need," "This club Will give: the SlUUCIII~ lie! job includes applying for a be held Monday, Nov. 18 in room members serve as a source of in-she said. a chance to see practices in small checking account for the dub, col-304 Haggar College Center. 

In Brief 

The IBM Corporation has donated n.5 million worth of semiconductor processing equipment for the solid-state research program in the department of electrical engineering at Notre Dame. Researchers in the solid-state program are studying the fundamental properties of materials and devices used in integrated circuits needed for the manufacturers of computers. According to Anthony Michel, professor and chairman of electrical engineering, the IBM equipment will increase the department's ability to educate engineers and contribute to the development of improved solid­state materials and devices. The results of such research may o the production offaster and cheaper computers. The donation has been made through IBM's Technical Gifts Program, which provides support to higher education and the training of young scientists, engineers and technicians. -The Observer 
Of Interest 

A choir concertfeaturing Saint Mary's Women's Choir and the Saint Mary's/Notre Dame Collegiate Choir will be presented tonight at 8 in the Little Theater of Moreau Hall. The program will include works by Brahms, Holst, and Britten. Featured soloists will be Sarah Bradley, Mary Nessinger, Liz Arthur andJack Gallagher. The concert is free and open to the public. -The Obseroer 
South African Awareness Week at Saint 
Mary's starts today. The week will include various speakers_ and films. Kicking off the week is a dramatic appreciation today byJulie Jensen, assistant professor of theater and communication, of the plays of South African playwright Athol Fugard. Also today, Sister Franzita Kane, professor emerita of English, will give a review of "Waiting for the Barbarians," by South African novelist].M. Coetzee. The events start at 7:30p.m. in Stapleton Lounge ofLeMans Hall and are open to the public. -The Observer · ' 
F. Nordy Hoffinan, former sergeant-at-arms of the 
U.S. Senate and an All-America football player under Knute Rockne at Notre Dame, will recall highlight.'> of his career in labor unions and government work during a talk this afternoon at 4. The Lalk in Hayes­Healy Auditorium is the second in a series sponsored by Studt>nt Alumni Relations Group and is open to the public. -The ObseroPr 
Rock-a-Like will take place tonight at Stepan Center from 
9:30 to I I:30. Come on outand rock to students impersonating their favorite rock stars. This is a change from the previously announced place ;~ad time for this event. -The Obseroer 
The Notre Dame Cycling Club will meet 
tonight at 8 in the New Orleans room in LaFortune. -The Observer 
RaceJudicata has been rescheduled for Sunday, Nov. 17 at I 0:00 a.m. The race is sponsored by Phi Alpha Delta Law Frater­nity. Runners may continue to pick up entry forms at the Law School snack bar. T-shirts are still available. Cost for the run is J4 before the race and S5 on the day of the race. All proceeds benefit Hospice of Saint Joseph County. The race starts and finishes across from the Notre Dame Credit Union. -The Observer 
Columbia University Professor David 
Lewin, author offour books on unionism, will discuss "The National Labor Relations Act at 50" during a Notre Dame talk today at 4:15. One of the O'Neil Lecture Series, the talk in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium is open to the public. -The Observer 
"The Freedom ofthe City" by Brian Friel opens 
tonight in the Washington Hall Lab Theater (north entrance). The play begins at 8:10p.m. All.seats are S4.-The Observer 
The lighter aspect of Ethiopia will be ex­
perienced at the Center for Social Concerns at 6:30p.m. today. The lively culture of Africa will be seen in a slideshow and enjoyed in exotic munchies. The event is sponsored by RASTA in honor of African Awarenesss Week. -The Obseroer 

Weather 

Jump in a puddle. There will 
beplenty of them as rain continues today and tomorrow. A 60 percent chance of rain today. Cool with the high in the upper 40s. An 80 percent chance of rain tonight and tomorrow with the low in the mid 40s and the high in the mid 50s. -AP 


Ihe-0-b.se~~or____ 
-------.L-:::.Y=-._, ---·---­
Design Editor................. Mack Mclaughlin Features Copy Editor................... Ed Nolan Design Assistant..................Alice Kroeger Features Layout...............Maciel Labrador Layout Staff......................... Wendy Mogan Typist .......................................... Colleen Foy Typesetters.................... Becky Gunderman ND Day Editor ................... Sharon Emmite 
Chuck Papandrea SMC Day Editor................. MaryJean Sully News Editor........................ Mary Heilmann Ad Design .................. Mary Carol Creadon Copy Editor................................ Miriam Hill JoanWrappe Sports Copy Editor ......... Dennis Corrigan Peter Georges Viewpoint Copy Editor ........ Doug Hasler Photographer ...........................Justin Smith Viewpoint Layout...•............. Carol Brown 
The Observer ( t·s~ ~99 !-~()()())is pubh>hed Monday througb Friday ex<·ept dunng exam and vat:at1on per••>d~ Th~ Obst~r i~ published by the 'tuc.lents ofthe I·nl\'ersity <>I ~ntre Dame and ~amt MaJ)··s College Subscnptoons may be purchased for S~0 per year (SlOper "'mester) by writing The Observer, P0 Bnx Q. ~oure Dame. Indiana ~<>~~6 
The Observer " a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rigbr. are r~!tl" ..vt:.J 
The Obserwr Thursday, November 14, 1985 -page 2 


Would University want public to know of students' suspensions? 

A good guideline to judging whether an action is right or wrong is to think of the person you most respect, and ask yourself, "IfIdid this, would I want that person to know about it?" 
In other words, if the petson I most respected was Mother Teresa and I was thinking of"borrowing" a fork from the dining hall, would I want her to know about it ifI did take the fork? 
Probably not. Consequently, know that "borrowing" a dining hall fork is wrong. This guideline works for institutions too, because after all, they are made up ofpeople. 
Take Notre Dame and the decision to suspend two students recently for an overnight parietals violation. Was this decision right or wrong? 
According to the above guideline, one must first decide who the University most respects. This might once have been difficult, but after the Dillon Hall tail­gater, in which the entire hall was punished because of concern for Notre Dame's reputation, it's pretty ob­So'1 if isn't vious the University most respects the general public ­especially alumni, parents and donors. 
Thus the question of whether the decision to suspend the students was right or wrong becomes a question ofwhether the Uni­versity would want the general public to know about the decision. 
For example, what if alumni, parents and donors awoke one morning to read this in their local newspapers? 
NOTRE DAME, Ind. Notre Dame President Father Theodore Hesburgh overruled an administrative board's decision and suspended two students from the university for a parie­tals violation, despite his knowing the students were fully clothed and asleep at the time of the offense, sources close to the university said yesterday. 
Hesburgh's ruling overturned the decision of a five­member . board, composed of faculty and ad­ministrators, which had ruled four days earlier to punish the first-offenders by requiring them to perform a community service project, the sources said. 
When questioned by reporters, Hesburgh said ... 
Now would the University want this in local papers around the country? Would the University really want the general public to know the circumstances sur­rounding the suspensions? I think not. Using the above guideline, then, Hesburgh made the wrong decision in suspending the two students. 
*****************~ 
~ Wanted: * 
* One good used * * * 
~ Macintosh :. * System * 
* * 
: Call: ~ 
SOUTH BEND 
. 


Mark Pankowski 

But the general public is probably not who Hesburgh himself most respects. After all, he did work for civil rights during a time when civil rights was not the most popular ofcauses. 
Who, then, would Hesburgh most respect? His being a devout Christian, I'm certain Jesus Christ would be near, ifnot at the top ofhis list. 
Using the same guideline, would Hesburgh want Jesus, the man who taught forgiveness and compassion, to know he suspended a young man for comforting 
another student in her time ofneed? 
Looking at it this way, I think Hesburgh would agree he made the wrong decision in this case. 
Yet Hesburgh cannot take all the blame for his ruling; he was forced to deal with a policy in du Lac stating, "Overnight parietal viola­tions involve suspension or dismissal." In other words, Hesburgh faced either fol· lowing the letter of the law, or showing compassion by breaking it. 
The policy gave him no third choice. There was no "in·between," for Hesburgh, the policy was, and is, in· 

flexible. It should be changed. Suspension or dismissal should be the maximum 
penalty for an overnight parietal violation, not the mini· mum. This would give some flexibility, thus allowing extenuating circumst~ces to be taken into account. 
This could be done simply by adding one word so as to make the policy read, "Overnight parietal violations may involve suspension or dismissal." 
The threat ofsevere punishment would still be there to deter those who otherwise might violate the rule. And, more importantly, it would prevent the occurence of another case in which the administration's choices are either following an inflexihlc policy or showing forgiveness and compassion. 
The policy should be changed. The general public would approve. And so would jesus. 
•

MIO .. EASTERN VEGETARIAN 
•· Vepta,...,. .t ~at D&.ltft FOODS SHAWBUtA. AIUGBDERA -BABA GHENOUJ HOMMUS-FELAFEL TEBBOULI SAI.AD 
• LEBANESE STYLE . GVROS 
• Pita Stuffed Scllwlu>idtu 

• CHU,ht/ul Paotrieo • Turll&.h Cof('e 288-';639 Tue• -Sat S~PM -9:30PM
co/:1~"/;'f§ &1~~~~.{.,?8 H3H Portage
1 : 2n-0396 evenings : 


I Oi.Dbl:ount for ~ D/SMC Students 
******************** 

Samn~er Job Applications AvaUable 
The Notre Dame Alumni Association, in cooperation with the Careerand PlacementServices Office, will again sponsor the SummerJob PlacementProgram in 1986. 
IF YOV ARE INTERESTED IN APPLYING FOR SUMMER.JOBS IN AN Alumni Club city, obtain an ,._ppllcatfonfrona the Alumni Office, 201 AdMin. Bldg. 
APPLICATIONS MUST BE COMPLETED AND RETURNED 
BYNOVEMBER 30. 


The Observer Thursday, November 14, 1985 -page 3 

Saint Mary's to host Jr. Mothers' Weekend 

By KIM YURATOVAC 
NewsStaff 

Care packages and home cooking will greet Saint Mary's juniors :u. 1he College hosts Junior Motht·rs' Weekend tomorrow through Sun· day, Nov . I 5·1 7. 
Sheila Coyne, chairwoman of the committee· that planned the event, said many activities have been planned to entertain the mothers and daughters throughout the 
... 
weekend. "' 
Although Coyne said the tradi· tiona! dinner the College usually sponsors during Junior Mothers' Weekend had to be eliminated due to a conflict in scheduling, a fashion show and brunch has been sub·
... 

stituted for Saturday. The show will
-..;. feature Milady Shop styles for juniors and their mothers. 
Activities begin tomorrow with registration from 3·6 p.m. in the Haggar College Center lobby. Tomorrow night, the Saint Mary's/Notre Dame musical dance group Shenanigans will entertain at a 
St. Edward's residents Charlie Maher, Gene 
welcome reception from 8· 10
Pilawski and Greg Barron relish the culinary 
The Obocrver/JU!IIln Smith 

'Three Little Pigs~ 
night. They didn't have to worry about the Big Bad Wolf-· only the food patrol lady at the door. 
delights ofItalian night at South Dining Hall last 
Assoon as you qet a job,_you could get the Amencan Express" Card. 
If you're a semor, all you need is to accept a $10,000 career-oriented job. That's 1!. No strings. No gimmicks. (And even 1fyou don't have a job right now don't worry. This offer 1s still good up to 12 months after you graduate.) Why is Amencan Express making it eas1er for 
you to g~t the Card right now? 1!10·.;;;;;;;;.·---~ ask to have a Spec1al Student 
. . Well, s1mply stated, we be­heve m your future. And as you go up the ladder, we can help-·m a lot of ways. 
~u"'"''.L;"''._..,_~· ~· 
·. 1w ~~· 1\..".rc''" 
'f 

LU:.!~~~.:.........­
in the Stapleton Lounge. Saturday morning's activities in· 
The Card can help you begm to establish your credit history. And, for busmess, the Card is mvaluable for travel and restaurants. As well as shop­pmg for yourself. 
Of course, the American Express Card is recognized around the world. So you are too. . 
So call 1-800-THE-CARD and 
Apphcation sent to you. Or look for one on campus The American Express Card. Don't leave school without it.sM 

elude open recreation in Angela Ath· letic Facility, with tennis and racquetball courts available, com· puter sessions in Haggar College Center Chameleon Room, a talk en· titled "Love Doesn't Grow On Trees," by sociology Professor Chuck Pressler in Stapleton Lounge and a brunch and fashion show at Come and Dine, an . Amish famlly· style restaurant. 
Saturday afternoon events begin with a talk by Sister Campion Kuhn on the history of Saint Mary's Col· lege in Carroll Hall. At 3 p.m., Barb Kracher will present the demonstra· tion, "Color Me Beautiful" in the Haggar College Center Parlor, with Maura Barille as her model. 
Saturday evening's highlight is the Ballet Hispanico of New York at 8 
p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
The events end Sunday with a 10 a.m. Mass in the Church ofthc Loretto followed by a brunch in the dining hall. 
Coyne said she is enthusiastic about the projected turnout of 450 juniors and their mothers. 
"We're looking forward to spend· mg the weekend with our mothers and hope they enjoy the different events," she said. 

Summit 
continuedfrom page 1 
the arms negotiators, but an agree· ment on that is in doubt. 
Reagan plans to propose that he and Gorbachev hold annual sum­mits, meeting alternately in each ot· her's country. 
Efforts also are underway for summit agreements regarding cui· rural exchanges, resumption ofcom· merclal air travel between the United States and Soviet Union and to guarantee the safety of air travel over the Pacific. 
The president, discussing summit goals in an interview with Britain's BBC, said, "I think the most that we could get out is ifwe couldeliminate some of the paranoia, if we could reduce the hostility, the suspicion that keeps our two countries ... at odds with each other." 
For the first four years of his presidency, Reagan did not setm in· terested in having a summit. But In the 1984 election campaign, Democratic rival Walter Mondale underscored that Reagan was the first president in '50 years not to have met with his Soviet counter· part. 
Reagan toned down his tough anti-Soviet rhetoric. No longer did he describe the Kremlin a11 "the evil empire," or charge that its leaders reserved "the right to commit any crime, to lie, to cheat." 
As Reagan began his second and final term, talk of a summit In· creased, and then took on real momentum when Gorbachcv, the youngest Soviet leader in decades, came to power. 
Asenior White House official said presidents almost arc guaranteed of succecs at summits as long as they arc not perceived at home "as weak or having been overpowered or having been deceived or duped." 
The official, who declined to be identified, said, if anything emerges from the summit that seems to promote peace, "there's no doubt that could be a plus. but I don't think that's an indispensable thing." 
Just by meeting with Gorbachev, Reagan softens his ima~ as a hardliner and promotes himself as a peacemaker, Hess said. "Ronald Reagan Is a gentleman," Hess said. "He's not going to lose his temper. He's not going to shout.... Asummit is, by definition, a manifestation of reaching out to your opponents." 
The Observer Thursday, November 14, 1985 -page 4 
Congress passes bill increasing fed. credit 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON Concerned 
about President Reagan facing the 
Soviets next week in Geneva with 
the U.S. government in an embar­
rassing default, Congress moved 
Tuesday night toward temporarily 
increasing the federal line ofcredit. 

Approved 300 to 121, the House 
bill gained support from both 
Republican and Democratic leaders 
seeking to relieve the financial crisis 
until after next week's summit 
meeting in Geneva. 

"The government would con­
tinue to function, but it would tem­
porarily stop paying its bills," 
presidential spokesman Larry 
Speakes said. "We are not going to 
issue checks that will bounce." 

Speakes made . his comments as 
'the Senate, moving to avert a dif­
ferent type offinancial crunch, gave 
final congressional approval to 
legislation providing funding for 
most government programs until 
Dec. 12. Current funding is due to 
expire tonight at midnight, and 
President Reagan is expected to sign 
the measure. 

The funding bill is separate from a 
second measure needed to raise the 
government's borrowing authority, 
and Speakes said checks would not 
be issued to federal employees, in­
dividuals receiving government 
benefits, state and local govern­
ments or vendors of government­
paid services until that crisis is 
resolved. 

James Miller III, director of the 
Office of Management and Budget, · issued a memorandum to heads of departments and agencies directing them to stop issuing the checks ifthe 
debt ceiling legislation has not been 
enacted. 

Speakes said Miller's action was 
authorized by President Reagan. 

Meanwhile the House, spurred by 
pleas not to embarrass the president 
on the eve of the Geneva summit, 
moved on two fronts to forestall a 
double fiscal calamity. 

There was no assurance from the 
Republican-led Senate that it would 
fully concur with the House actions, 
which would put off the deadlines 
for tough decisions on federal 
spending until the second week of 
December. 

But House Speaker Thomas 
O'Neill Jr., D-Mass., today predicted 
that Congress would pass bills to 
carry the government well past 
Reagan's summit with Soviet Leader 
Mikhail Gorbachev on Nov. 19-20. 

The lawmakers will make sure 
Reagan "doesn't have to have Mr. 
Gorbachev pick up the tab. There'll 
be finances there," O'Neill said. 

The House Ways and Means Com­
mittee on Tuesday night approved a 
small increase in the government's 
credit line. The measure would 
avoid an unprecedented default by 
the Treasury, which already has 
reached its borrowing limit of $1.82 
trillion and needs more cash by 
tomorrow. 

The short-term debt bill would 
raise the debt ceiling until Dec. 13. 
Speakes said yesterday the ad­ministration opposes the Ways and Means Committee action "because we believe Congress is only taking the easy way out, not facing up to reality and postponing the deci­sion." 
Speakes declined to say whether Reagan would veto the Ways and Means bill if it were approved by Congress and sent to his desk, but O'Neill said the president has little choice. 
"The president isn't in any posi­tionto refuse this," O'Neill said. "We don't want to be a defaulting nation when he goes to Geneva." 
The full House is expected to con­sider the measure today or tomor­row. 
Bargainers from the House and Senate met for less than 20 minutes and agreed only to break into a sub­group to try to make progress before a midnight tonight deadline for ac­tion to increase the government's line ofcredit. 
Meanwhile, the House moved to avert a different problem by voting 259-151 for a stopgap measure that would keep money flowing to most government agencies after an exist­ing stopgap bill also expires at mid­night tonight. 

The Observer/Justin Smith
Lion hunting 

Tbe Notre Dame Marching Band prepares to Penn State. Tbe Pennsylvania trip is tbe band's travel to University Park, Pa., for Saturday's foot-road game for tbe season. ball game against tbe top-ranked Nittany Lions of 
Attention: Notre Dame Employees YOU CAN JOIN THE FIRST LOCAL IPA*HMO lN THE 


MICHIANA AREA 
Key

Health 



Plan 
100% 
TOTAL HEALTH CARE WITH NO DEDUCTIBLE$ · AND MINIMAL COPAYMENTS 
..,. OFFICE VISITS COVERS ..,. ROUTINE CHECK-UPS 
IN FULL ..,. PREGNANCIES •SURGERIES ..,. HOSPITALIZATIONS ..,. EMERGENCY CARE BOTH IN AND OUT OF AREA ­
WORLDWIDE 
•PAP SMEARS •IMMUNIZATIONS/INOCULATIONS 
KEY HWTH PIAN 
Wholly Owned by Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Indiana 
*Individual Practice Association (you personally choose a privately practicing physician as your health core manager) 



QB IIIVB 
STUDef\JT GOV8RNm8Ni OPPIG6S 
THUR. NOV. -14th 4PM -6PM 
2ND FLOOR La Fortune 
QuESTIONS ANsWERED BY: 
STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT STUDENT BODY VICE PRES I DENT STUDENT BODY TREASUER STUDENT SENATORS HALL PRESIDENTS COUNCIL CHAIR MAN JUDICIAL COORDINATOR OMBUDSMAN AD'w'ORKS PERSONNEL 
l?~w:dtk~ 
ALL THOSE INTERESTED IN 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ARE INVI1ED 
.....L IIIII•I•OIS CO..CIL • n.· CLASSES 
--------------------~~­
The Observer Thursday, November 14, 1985 -page 5 
Israeli PM Peres dismisses Sharon in aftermath of insult 



A88oclated Press 
JERUSALEM -Prime Minister Shimon Peres, angered by attacks on his peace overtures to Jordan, rejected a partial apology from Cabinet Minister Ariel Sharon and handed him a letter of dismissal, a Labor party official said. 
Peres convened his Cabinet to dis­cuss the firing of Sharon, who had accused Peres of making a secret agreement with Jordan's King Hus­sein and of being "weak and spine­less." 
Raft Edry, head of Peres' Labor party faction in parliament, said on Israel radio that a compromise for­mula had been agreed to by Peres. But he said Sharon had refused to in­clude in his apology an expression of confidence in the prime minister and his policies. 
The Cabinet continued to meet and it was uncertain if a compromise could be worked out. It would take 48 hours for the dismissal to go into etfect ahd there was a possibility Peres could retract his letter. 
Earlier, Sharon, minister of trade and industry, apologized for any per­sonal attacks on Peres, but stood by his criticism of Peres' overtures to jordan, including acceptance of an international forum for peace talks. 
"If things I said were understood as a personal slight to the prime min­ister, Shimon Peres, I hereby express my apology to him," Sharon said on Israel radio. 
But Sharon went on to say that he stood by his criticism of Peres' policies, and Israel radio quoted Peres as telling the Cabinet that he could not accept an apology on such terms. 
In an earlier meeting yesterday with Ukud bloc leader Yitzhak Shamir, Peres accused Sharon of breaching a law requiring Cabinet ministers to accept collective responsibility for government policy, the aide said. 

He asked Shamir to agree to the 
dismissal, but the foreign minister 
objected, the aide said. 

Sharon's dismissal without 
Shamir's approval could prompt 
Ukud to pull out ofthe government 
and end the joint-rule agreement un­
der which the two ideologically op­
posing parties have governed Israel 
for the last 14 months. 

Sharon has advocated carrying out attacks on Palestine Uberation Organization bases in Amman, jor­dan. 
San Antonio's proposal would bar those under 13 from some concerts 
Associated Press 
SAN ANTONIO, Texas -After trying unsuccessfully to tame the lyrics of heavy metal rock music at concerts, the City Council here is considering prohibiting children under 13 from attending rock shows that depict violence and illicit sex. 
l'hc ot.erver/}u11Cin Smith 
Mayor Henry Cisneros said a

Voice ofthe Irish 
proposed ordinance, the first of its kind in the nation, reflects "common 

junior Chris Abate lets tbe music play at WVFI-AM during his 
sense," but opponents call it mis­

shift as D} for the station. Tbe student-run radio station operates 
guided and argue that "parents 
from the O'Shaughnessy Loft. 
ought to decide and not the govern­ment." 
At issue are performances at the Convention Center Arena, owned by San Antonio, the nation's lOth largest city. 
The ordinance, which comes up for debate today, would bar anyone younger than 1 3 from concerts at which sadistic or masochistic sex, rape, incest, bestiality and ex­hibitionism are depicted on stage. 
Earlier this year, the council con­sidered ways of banning objectional lyrics at rock concerts. When City Attorney Lowell Denton determined any such action would be unconstitutional, council mem­bers took aim at concert theatrics. 
Parents supporting the restriction found a surprising ally in Cisneros, a liberal Democrat. 
"I think reasonable people would agree (those activities) ought not to be entertainment for children," Cis­neros said. "We're following a com­mon sense rule here." 
Concert promoter jack Orbin contends the city would sutfer finan­cially ifthe law passes because major mainstream rock groups will not play "in the repressive state of San Antonio ... It would be sort of like playing South Africa." 
Orbin said he believes the council is intent on censorsing lyrics. 


4& c•pecial tape rental far member• 

****************************** 

(b(D(BI]I:$0U 01:$(bl:$lBUU(]aJ UaJ U(]OOQJ ****************************** 
Came in and •••aur Children•• Raam 
514DD U.S. B1 N

*Ghastbust•r• 
Clac:ktaw•r Squar•

*Karat• Kid 
ShappincJ C•nt•r Sauth B•nd

*Dv•r 25DD hundr•dmavi•• 

The Observer 



Daisies for Di 

Diana, the Princess ofWales, bends down to talk offlowers on Tuesday. The Royal couple concluded 
to 7-year-old Tara Sansbury of West Palm Beach their U.S. touryesterday after briefone-day visit in 
who presented Her Royal Highness wtth a bouquet the Florida city. 

Wisconsin passes 'pregnancy bill' in effort to reduce teen-age births 
AMoclated Press 
MADISON, Wis. -Gov. Anthony Earl has signed a law making parents of minors liable for babies born to their children and providing 51 mil­lion for pregnancy counseling. 
"This is a bill I am very, very proud to sign," Earl said Tuesday of the measure, designed to reduce un­wanted teen pregnancies and abor­tions and "irresponsible sexual activity." 

Pentagon announces success of new sub laser 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON · The Defense Department, 'in an experiment with significant implications for war­fighting strategy, successfully has transmitted messages via laser light from a high-flying airplane to a sub­marine cruising at "operational depths." 

The experiment, confirmed by Rear Adm. Thomas Mattingly and ot­her Navy officials, was conducted more than a year ago off the coast of San Clemente, Calif., under the code name "SLCAIR 84," pronounced Slickair. 
A small jet carrying an experimen­tal green-light laser was able to es­tablish contact and transmit messages "error free" to a sub­merged submarine. 
Although precise details are clas­sified, the airplane was flying at altitudes between 20,000 feet and 30,000 feet at the time of the trans­missions, one source said. Another source said the term "operational depth" meant the submarine was more than I00 feet below the surface. · 
The successful test has paved the way for additional research and con­vinced some officials a more ad­vanced laser system can be constructed using satellites instead of airplanes. Over the next two years, the Navy will take control of the research from the Defense Ad­vanced Research Projects Agency. 

L_ 
The law, which won unanimous endorsement from both houses of the Legislature, also appropriates funds for sex education in schools, prohibits trespassing at hospitals and clinics -including those where abortions are performed -and repeals restrictions on advertising, 
displaying  and  selling  of  non­ 
prescription contraceptives.  
Rep.  Marlin  Schenider,  who  

served on a special legislative coun­cil committee to draft the bill, 

predicted the new law would help promote understanding of an issue that "has been described as the most wrenching domestic issue since the Civil War." 
The law underscores that "all of us, parents and young people, have a responsibility for our acts," Earl said. He said it also is "a sincere effort to limit the thousands of tragedies that are annually played out" in Wiscon­sin because of unwanted teen preg· nancies. 

Erasmus Books 
1027 E. Wayne Tues -Sun, noon -6 1 block south of Jderson & Eddy 


u-d. -·ofpl'blt boob~..... .old, ·-•daq 

The poUtlcal turbulence of Northern Ireland explodes onto stage... 

THE 







FREEUtTi~ 


OF THE 
CITYNotre Dame. Showcase Production 
Directed by Reg Baln ' November 14,15,16and 21,22,23 Washington Hall-Lab Theatre(N. Entrance) 
8:10PM All seats 4(only 100 seats per performance) Tickets available: At the door At 320 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Thursday, November 14, 1985 -page 6 
Police chief in MOVE tenders his resignation 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA-The city's police comm1ss1oner announced his resignation yesterday, exactly six months after directing his depart­ment's disastrous attempt to evict members of the radical MOVE cult from their fortified row house. 
Commissioner Gregore Sambor, 57, told more than 200 officers at a meeting that he had sent a letter to Mayor W. Wilson Goode saying he would relinquish his duties Nov. 30. He made no reference to the MOVE confrontation. 
"There will be many who will second-guess this decision, and many who will deny that it is mine, but the simple truth of the matter is that it is time," Sambor told the of­ficers, who gave him a standing ova­tion when he arrived at the Police Academy. 
Sambor, who said two months ago he had no intention ofquitting, was contradicted by Goode in testimony before a special commission inves­tigating the May 13 MOVE tragedy, in which II members of the cult were killed and 6I houses were destroyed by a fire started by a police bomb, dropped to break up a rooftop bunker. 
Goode testified that he had been misled and disobeyed by his subor· dinates. The mayor's representative 
on the scene, then Managing Direc· 
tor Leo Brooks, resigned this sum­
mer, citing personal reasons. 
Sambor's 23 months as 
commissioner were tainted by two 
widely criticized police operations. 
In "Operation Cold Turkey," police detained and searched about I,000 people on street corners noted for drug dealing. The practice was stopped when the American Civil liberties Union sued in federal court, claiming the searches were unconstitutional. 
When a police officer was killed in May, police rounded up numerous residents of a Hispanic community for questioning. A federal judge or­dered police to stop the "repeated, persistent pattern of unconstitu­tional stops, detentions, seizures and frisks." 
Sambor had 3 7 years ofservice in the department and will receive a pension of S51,000, about SlO,OOO more than ifhe had been fired. 
Sambor will retire from the 7,000­member force Jan. 29, according to Goode, who said he would appoint Deputy Commissioner Robert Armstrong as interim commissioner. 
Longstreth said Sambor was an easy target for blame after the con­frontation: "you're obviously not going to get rid of the mayor, so you go and whang the next guy in line." 

··cc;Qowehg {ph oQQ oecogi 0~1~! 
Come in and Browse 
327lincolnway 232-3354 


EASY RIDER 
TO AND FROM CHICAGO'S O'HARE EVERY ZHOURS EVERY DAY 

United Limo
~HIIUI  
~  
Ill '/!ln.MIIIll  
10844 Mckinley Hwy Osceola  .,  ·  ~·~  IIIII -~~~  
674-6993155"3068 or call your Travel Agent  ~ 1 111111111  ~ -~~.,~t tiiiN D e \' ' 1111111111111111 IIWIIIIIIIIIIillllu,, I -luunn"•nmr.t  

Special Student I Youth Fares to 

SCANDINAVIA 
On Scheduled Airlines! 
The inexpensive way to get to Scandinavia. 
Winter Rates: 
New York to Copenhagen, Oslo, Stockholm from $215 one way, $350 roundtrip Chicago to Copenhagen from $215 one way, $350 roundtrip Chicago to Oslo, Stockholm from $255 one way, $430 roundtrip and tours designed especially for students to the 


SOVIET U.NION 
For Information Call: 

WHOLE WORLD TRAVEL 
17 E. 45th St., New York, NY 10017 (212) 986-9470 


The Observer Thursday, November 14, 1985-page 7 

r ' 

APPbooo
Summit security 
ASwiss soldierbraves the weatherasbebuilds up measures for tbe upcoming meetings between a sandbag bunker at the Geneva Cointrln airport President. Reagan and Soviet leader Mikhail Gor­yesterday morning. The Swiss army moved into bachev, wbicb will start Nov. 19. town Tuesday night and is now busy with security 

Schroeder survives third stroke; condition shows improvement 
Associated Press 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. William Schroeder's third stroke apparently was triggered by the mechanical heart he received nearly one year ago, and though there is further im­pairment, "it is too early to say how much damage has been done," his neurologist said yesterday. 
"I think he has had another blood clot thrown off into the brain," said Dr. Gary Fox. 
Fox acknowledged that there was some controversy among members of the medical team about the origin of the weekend stroke. "hut the likely source would he the heart." 
If the scan indicates the arc.: is stablized. "we arc gom!~ to restart some low dose ;lilti .,u1ant therapy, h•x ,;aid 
Fox said the administration of anti·coagulants creates a "big dilemma." 
"We are damned if we do and damned if we don't (use them)," he said, explaining that they are given to reduce the risk of dots, but still can increase the chances for hemor­rhages in the brain. 
He said the anti·coagulants were halted Sunday when tests disclosed that a stroke had affected Schroeder's right frontal lobe. The two previous strokes had occurred on the left side. 
Asked how much more Schroeder can take, the neurologist replied, "He has amazed me so far. I really don't know." 
He said Schroeder, 53, was showingslight improvement, having regained some movement on his left side. Although his patient was "wide 

G tt 0.,. 
,::-IC.I PAY', No/. IS' G} :oc-.? •
•
• ~"D1.-.1 I~ .. \-\AL-L.. -ft j_-CC'
' ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
Senior Class The presents 

FRIDAY AND SATURDAY, Nov.15& 16 7:00 9:15 11:30 Place: Hall Of Engineering Price: $1.50 
awake and alert today, he has not spoken for the last few days. I can't say whether this is a permanent thing," Fox told a news conference at Humana Hospital Audubon. 
Schroeder, who has lived longer with the Jarvik-7 heart than any human, still faces several weeks of hospitalization before doctors decide whether he can be returned to his specially equipped apartment across from the hospital. 
"We think he has stopped bleed­ing (in the brain) and feel the area is stabilized," Fox said, adding that another CAT scan, or computer en­hanced X-rays, will be taken today. 
Schroeder suffered his first stroke 18 days after receiving the mechani­cal pump last Nov. 25. It left him greatly weakened and impaired his memory. 




Survivors question Mengele findings 
Associated Press TERRE HAUTE, Ind. -Asurvivor of 


•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 
and her husband Uied unsuccess­fully to obtain a clear photograph of the man they believed to be Men­gele through use of a camera con­cealed in a cigarette lighter. 
George Lucas files lawsuit against usage 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON · George Lucas, 
producer of the film, "Star Wars," 
sued a pro-Pentagon group Tuesday 
to prohibit the use of the movie's 
name in its commercials for Presi­
dent Reagan's proposed defense sys­
tem to destroy Soviet missiles before 
they reach the United States. 
Lucasfilm Ltd., the company founded in 1975 by Lucas, wants the Coalition for the Strategic Defense Initiative, the public relations arm of the private group High Frontier, to eliminate the term "Star Wars," from Its S1.7 mlllion television ad cam­paign. 
The filmmaker charged trademark infringement, unfair trade practice and appropriating the good wlll and reputation ofLucasfilm in conveying the false Impression that the movie producer had sponsored the ad­vertisement. 
Lucasfilm also asked that the coali­tion be barred permanently from using the term, "Star Wars," a nickname commonly used by the news media and politicians for the officially named Strategic Defense Initiative. 
U.S. district judge Gerhard Gesell scheduled a hearing on a temporary restraining order for yesterday. 
ings, and form conclusions as to whether the remains unearthed in Brazil earlier this year were actually those of Mengele. 
The conference wa.~ called by a group known as CANDLES, or Children ofAuschwitz Nazi's Deadly Lab Experiments Survivors, which attracted attention last February with a mock trial of Mengele in 
Jerusalem. The Wiesenthal Center has credited the mock trial with generating the publicity that led to the discovery of the bones near Sao Paolo. 
Eva Kor, the founder ofCANDLES, said the Wiesenthal Cen,ter and the governments of Israel, West Ger· many and several South American countries have turned down Invita­tions to participate In the con· ference. 
Officials of the Wiesenthal Center previously said they are not sending representatives because center offi­cials are in Geneva preparing for the summit between President Reagan and Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbac· hev. 
Wiesenthal is giving a lecture at 
Indiana  University  in  nearby  
Bloomington today.  
"The people who are arranging  

the speech wouldn't even give him a message," she said ofher attempts to contact Wiesenthal, the noted Nazi hunter. 
Van Renterghem accused the Wiesenthal Center of sitting ort the evidence he and his wife brought back from Santo Porto, which is near the island of Madeira. He also said he and his wife met with former Israeli Defense Minister Ariel Sharon and Israeli intelligence agents in Los An­geles to share their evidence, but It was ignored by them also. 
"It's a very, very complex case with heavy polltical overtones," van Renterghem said. "The case is so full ofholes it's like Swiss cheese." 
Severeid, whose television credits include "Divorce Court," "Paper Chase" and "TJ. Hooker," said she 





~i~~~_()__i_Il__t________________
Th_ur-sd-ay,-No-ve_m_ber_1_4,_198-5--p-age-8 

·Plight of migrant farm workers is not imaginary 
Mark Twain once wrote, "Never let school interfere with your education." Despite Notre Dame's rather impressive reputation as one of the more competitive schools in the country, there is still a problem of receiving the best education that one is capable of attaining. Contrary to what may be implied by this radi­cal statement, the problem lies not within the didactic abilities ofthe professor, but rather in the attitude that students of today have taken. This being the importance of receiving the "almighty A." 
joseph Medel 
guest column 
Now I'm sure that there are people who might declare that I'm a fool for condemning the pursuit of an "A." I'm not. I'm merely stating that there should be quite a bit oflearn­ing associated with the attainment of that grade; not just a four hour cram session the night before, so that once the test is over all the information "acquired" merely dissipates from your mentality. Though this may be an extreme case, the fact remains that you haven't really learned anything. The learning process lies not within one's ability to cram a semester's amount ofinformation into a single evening, but in the deeper understanding and awareness that one receives during the entire duration ofthe course. 
The term "learning" is defined as the ac­quisition ofknowledge as a result ofstudy, ex-' perience or teaching. This is what is important in college life, the acquisition of knowledge. The grade is merely a subsidiary part of the overall learning process. You know as well as I that what one receives as a grade may not be what one deserves. In fact, one may deserve an "A" for the ainount of effort and time that was put in, but the end result may only be a "C," and that isn't so horrible. It merely states that you did above passing work for a par­ticular class, nothing more, nothing less. It doesn't mark you as an imbecile or a failure, contrary to popular belief. 
For some reason which still baffles social psychologists, the youth of today (especially at Notre Dame) seem obsessed with perfec­tion. It's either an"A" or failure. Perhaps, it is a tradition instilled in all Americans to be the best; not the best that one can be, but the best . .. period. This is obviou:;ly a feelble-minded and senseless idea. Throughout high school, it was drilled in our heads that in order to get into a good college one needed great grades. Learning took a back seat to grades. Now that we as a freshman class enter this mighty in­stitution, we carry with us that very attitude; grades are the most important thing, when in fact many of us have lost sight of the fact that learning is the most essential and fundamental part ofthe "college experience." 
Now you may say to yourself, "Well gosh, aren't you generalizing a tad over-zealously?" Well perhaps, but this is a problem at Notre Dame, as well as in all the other schools in the United States. Though not all the people feel the great desire to get the "A," a great percentage of college students, including those students here, seek the "almighty A." 
It has been conjectured that attitudes are one ofthe hardest things to change. It has also been conjectured that college is the place where the majority of people's attitudes will develop. So perhaps this little message will find its way into your conscious mind: The pursuit of a great grade is a worthwhile en­deavor, but it is the acquirement of all the knowledge possible while striving for this rat­her lofty standard that separates the scholars from those who claim to be. 
My advice to those of.you who seem to be fretting about the deficiency notice that you or your parents received in Emil or in any ot­her class is not to despair. What you get out of college is strictly up to you; grades aren't the most important thing in the learning process, learning is. 
joseph Medel is in the Freshman Year of Studies at Notre Dame. 



Lawsuit may be the cure for University's apathy 
The recent lawsuit filed by Susan Matre against the University of Notre Dame renews the controversy regarding the protection of females along the road to Saint Mary's. It seems ironic that the University can assume responsibility for its student's actions in Ann Arbor, Mich., and Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and yet not be responsible enough to provide ade­quate security for its students on its property. 
Brian Broderick 
sincerely yours 
Incidents of rape have been a recurring problem on the Notre Dame campus. It seems rather obvious that people may have to walk back to Saint Mary's by themselves. It is idealistic to think that in every situation a group or even two will make the journey across U.S. 31. Those who argue that the rape incidents are too few and far between to war­rant concern are inconsiderate and foolish. One rape is one too many. The point is clear: the University does not offer sufficient protec­tion for their students along the road t<! Saint Mary's. 
The solution to the problem is painfully ap­parent. Security must be improved. Though street lights have been placed along the road just recently,this has proven to be not enough. The answer lies in having security placed along the road at various places and even con­structing an overpass or underpass across U.S. 
31. Even the shuttle system could be im­proved upon as frustrated students often give up on the chronicallylate bus. 
There may be many solutions to the problem. What I find most disturbing is the attitude of many students that I have run into and the actual character of the University. 
I have heard students questioning how Matre can sue the University for S3 million. It seems that student opinion tells us that her predicament is her's and her family's alone. The fact that it happened on Notre Dame property seems almost irrelevant. This at­titude is expected yet still disappointing. It is expected because this attitude is nothing more than a product of a society which in­creasingly accepts deviant behavior as just another aspect of society. It is disappointing because rape involves the entire community. It is the problem of the entire society not just the victim. Once the responsibility is assumed, steps can be taken to eliminate the problem. 
Another disappointing factor in this whole affair is the apparent apathy on the part of the University. I am sure that the administration is 
Imagine for a moment now, that you are 28 years old with five children. Your spouse is just as young but like you, looks and thinks years older. You are farmworkers. 

Miguel Mendivil 
guest column 
And imagine that you and your family live in a tiny one room shack, with no running water, no sewage, nothing. Your friends and neigh­bors live in exactly the same conditions as your family. And only a few miles away in the heart ofthe city you find paved roads, running water, sewage and plenty offood. 
Imagine that all around this city, there is beautiful fertile farmland that your family, the elderly, children and pregnant women in­cluded, works day after day. You are landless farmworkers and you labor because you must, just as your parents have worked and their parents and so on. Your family has worked this 

Doonesbury 


Acquiring knowledge should be highest priority 
never closing your door to anyone. though you live an endless hope, you cannot help at times to feel angry or numb or afraid and to become filled with tears that remain hidden. 
Now imagine just one more time. This world you imagine is not a world others call third. This is not Ethiopia or India. It is not Cambodia or Peru. It is not South Africa or even Mexico. It is right here in Indiana. It is right here on the farms 30 minutes from South Bend. Imagine it is even closer, seven miles from Notre Dame. These migrant farmworkers come by the tens of thousands from Texas. Some come from California, many from Florida and others from Mexico. Imagine that most are American citizens and "legal" residents from long before the Europeans set foot on this land. 
Imagine this. 
It is not imaginary. 
Miguel G. Mendivil is a senior sociology major at Notre Dame and a member of Farmers Labor Organizing Committee. 

Quote of the day 
"0 Lord! thou knowest how busy I must be this day: if I forget thee, do not thou forget me." 
Sir]acgp Astley (1579-1652) Before the Battle ofEdgehill 

land for centuries and have never received a decent wage. 
Imagine that at night as you lay with an empty stomach and an aching back from weeding and picking fruits and vegetables all day, you hear the painful cries of your children. Your children are crying from hunger, crying for food to relieve the physical pain ofhunger. And as you lay, you feel there is ab&_olutely nothing you can do .... 
Don't stop now please. Imagine that every year you and your family must leave your homeland. You must fill your truck, which at times becomes a place to live and sleep, with all your belongings and move. You must migrate to other farmlands in the North. You migrate because work at home is scarce. You migrate because the summer and fall harvest of the northern farmlands needs hands at the end of the stumps to pick and weed. It is a journey for work, a journey to survive. 
And even though these cold northern farmlands, more than a 1,000 miles from your home, are still in the country you live in, they 
ANO711135£ARE THE Wf3L.L, WIN, 7Hl3RE JlJ5T Y£35, fT Vot5, ROBIN. ONL-Y /JR£.<31X7 YOfJCWN, HASN'T 8t&N AMOMeNT TH/515 WHt.RE I MRS FeAGAN?IVR70'rfe­7D5HOP&Vti?.5/NC:C I COME TO CHiiTW/7H CW& 50 RIG/ ANO FA­0/5Cf}vtR/3/JORU6 ABI./5{3. FORMeR. f}RJ)6 ABU5E 
MOU5, THATS 5/MPLY VICTIMS.
SPEAKING OF
ASTOUNOING! 
I /
THISRIXJM 
/ 
seem so foreign. These foreign lands are filled with different people, different customs yet they are still from your country. And in these northern farms you live the same life your family has always led as farmworkers. 
But;imagine now the cold northern nights with no heating and with wet molded walls. In the morning as you work, your family is sprayed with chemicals and pesticides. At night your children cough, your rash grows and there is no money for a doctor. On the last journey to these northern farms, your father died at the ripe old age of 49. 
Now imagine this. You and everyone in your family are proud. You pride yourselves in the fact that your labor makes it possible for others to enjoy harvested foods. You have faith and you see dignity in your lives. You dig­nity comesfrom beingan important link in the chain of life and from the joy of working the land. You never lose hope. Your people's faith never let suffering and poverty destroy you. You know what to do, how to survive, how to live. And through all this you continue to give, 
Garry Trudeau 
concerned with the problem ofrape, however I question why there has been very little ac­tion taken on the part of the University. The whole situation can be paralleled to the Uni­versity's reaction to the alcohol problem on campus. It seems once the University realized that it was liable for the actions ofits students, it introduced a program which protected it­self and showed concern for the student. Hopefully by going to court over the rape inci­dent the University will respond with equal measure to protect the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community. It is a sad day, however, when one of the nation's leading academic in­stitutions, the place for the Catholic educa­tional experience, needs someone to take them to court to teach them common sense. 
Brian Broderick is a sophomore govern­ment major at Notre Dame and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Even 

"ievvp.~o~i~n~t~-----------------------------------------Th--ur~s~da~y~,~N~ov~e~m~b~e~r~1~4~,1~9~8~5--~pa~g~e~9 

P.O. Box Q 
We should listen before dismissing protestors 
DearEditor: 
I am writing in response to Chris Edwards' 
Nov 12 Viewpoint guest column regarding 
the activities of the Anti-Apartheid Network. 
First, were the anti-apartheid supporters at 
t~e Ole' Miss game the ones who were 
"callous," "selfish," "baaaing sheep" as Ed­
wards vociferously states? I challenge those 
who cried "more investment" to spell out the 
facts of the South African situation and 
provide a sound moral and political argument 
for their callous protest at the game. 
Second, as far as protesting at an athletic 
event is concerned, no I don't think it would 
bt• a wist· or effective habit to fall into, but 
when an issue as urgent as investment in the 
apartheid-state so desperately needs public 
awareness and debate, who can fault the Anti­
Apartheid Network for their efforts? After all, 
they are fighting over the political, social and 
economic rights of 2'5 million blacks -surely 
those millions are more important than a 
minute or two of unimpaired vision at a Notre 
Dame football game. I don't recall seeing a 
Viewpoint column condemning another 
protest of a pressing campus issue -the in­
famous "We are Not Dry" effort at a men's bas­
ketball game two years ago. Surely Edwards 
didn't participate in that "cheap stunt." 
Last, Edwards attempts to whip up hysteria 
about impending campus radicalism and 
violence. To the best of my knowledge, the 
Anti-Apartheid Network has not promoted 
violence in any form. Instead, they have 
engaged in peaceful protests more in the spirit 
of Martin Luther King than Abbie Hoffman. 
No, the Anti-Apartheid Network is not among 
tht· dvil peacemakers who promote 
"senseless violence." They do promote social 
justice and they do make their voices heard­
maybt· we should listen to their shouts, read 
their banners and think about what they are 
saying before we dismiss them as people who 
art• unable to think for themselves. 
Michael Brogioli Howard Hall 
Anti-apartheid group 
has had great success 
/Jear t'dilor: 
I am writing in response to Steve Safranek's Nov. Il. column concerning the latest trends in fashionable activism. Although there were several questionable points in the column, I was most disturbed by his allusions to "the cause of South Africa." Safranek seems to im­ply that the I,200 students and faculty that signed the divestment petition are simply rt·sponding to a "fashionable" trend. This statement unjustly undermines the integrity of those signatories, and completely dis­regards the: hard work of the Anti-Apartheid Network. 
One does not have to be pro-divestment to re<:ognize the fact that the Network has had gn·at success in bringing the issue of apar­theid into the Notre Dame limelight. By ques­tioning University investments, students, faculty, and the administration have been forced to make a decision on their own. Regardless of the outcome of this decision, people have been thinking about the issue. 
Apartheid, or more specifically the anti­apartheid movemem, has recently been called "the new patron saint of human rights." Hitler was the first. It's funny that although this was a point mentioned by that radical hippie, Abbie lloffman, the statement was actually made by Professor Louis Henkin, a noted authority on human rights from Columbia llniveristy, at a recent lecture here on campus. Whether the movement is fashionable or not is not what's 
important. The awareness created by the 
movement is for the better, which is what 
Safranek is so worried about. 
God bless student activism. God bless the 
"many" involved in promoting all forms ofso­
cial justice at Notre Dame. And God bless the 
Anti-Apartheid Network. 
Mtcbale]. Lockbead Stanford Hall 
Kibeltis should listen to words of pious woman 
DearEditor: 
One of the many possible responses to Terry Kibeltis' recent impassioned and mis­guided plea for a female clergy that seems to suggest itself comes from the voice of a small and insignificant nun from Calcutta. When asked at a recent press conference what she thought about the idea ofwomen priests, Mot­her Theresa replied that although the Blessed Mother was the most exalted of all ·God's creatures "it was enough{or her to be a hand­maid." Might not Kibeltis and all of us here at the University ofOur Lady profitably meditate on these words ofone who sees with the eyes of faith and judges not with the deceptive and myopic "logic'' ofworldly wisdom? 
Thomas D. D'Andrea Notre Damegraduate student 
Edwards should take his mind off of football 
DearEditor: 
I have never been more disgusted in my life 
as I was when I read the Viewpoint column 
concerning the Anti-Apartheid Network writ­
ten by Chris Edwards. 
Edwards refers to the members of this or­
ganization as "some selfish students." Some 
selfish students? Look in the mirror Edwards. 
God forbid someone at this University should 
dare to interrupt a few precious seconds of 
the sacred ritual offootball in order to try and 
do something worthwhile, to help someone. 
Edwards states that "Divestment is a mind­
less fraud undeserving of our attention and 
support." I declare that anyone who would 
make such a statement is "mindless," not to 
mention uninformed and amoral. 
I entreat the students here, especially Ed­
wards, to take their minds off of football long 
enough to open a newspaper or watch the 
news and see black South Africans being 
"maimed" or "God forbid, killed" everyday. 
I certainly hope the students at Saint Mary's 
and Notre Dame do not agree that, "The jury 
has reached its verdict and have pronounced a 
sound defeat for Anti-Apartheid." If they have 
come to such a conclusion alii can do is weep 
for them and the state of our world in the 
future. 
I thank Edwards for bringing this issue to 
the public forum and only hope that the intel­
ligent students of this community will see 
clearly enough to understand the moral 
obligation ofdivestment. 
Diane Presti SaintMary's Student 
O'Neill based his letter on hearsay and opinion 
DearEditor: 
I would like to take a few moments to ques­tion David O'Neill's remarks concerning the Hall Presidents' Council. Being a member of the HPC, I really question O'Neill's basis of facts aS well as his rash judgments calling members of the HPC "worthless instruments of bureaucratic nonsense." 
I wonder if O'Neill even knows what the 
HPC is comprised of. No, HPC is not a 
"worthless instrument of bureaucratic non­
sense." HPC is a twenty-five member body 
consisting of elected presidents from all the 
halls and an off-campus representative. It is, 
however, apathetic people like yourself who 
make these judgments about hardworking 
people that give student government its bad 
name. 

I also question the facts you used when stating the HPC is "incapable of making deci­sions." I am almost certain, for one, that you have never attended an HPC meeting and are basing your judgments on total hearsay. Besides these rash statements I am sure you don't even know the accomplishments of HPC. HPC has been a mainstay in campus ac­tivities and decisions for years. HPC has a great reputation for getting information to students as well as concerning itselfwith cam­puswide issues. For example, the HPC has made its stand clear on the recent parletals issue by taking out two ads in The Observer for student support. 
If people like you would take the time to write a letter to Father Tyson concerning parietals rather than criticizing the HPC, maybe Notre Dame would undergo changes for the better. Quit complaining about the wrongs of the University and start helping out those who care about them: The Hall Presi­dents' Council. I invite you to our meetings to come and see for yourselfthat HPC is a strong and reputable body which is able to get the job done, not "bureaucratic nonsense." 
Glen Sgambati Holy Cross Hallpresident 

Thanks to Edwards for exposing selfishness 
DearEditor: 
In his Nov. 12 column (Anti-Apartheid Net­work booed by ND students), Chris Edwards calls the members of the Anti-Apartheid Net­work who protested the University's South African investment policy at Saturday's game selfish, perverse and callous, and boy I couldn't agree more. How could these selfish people interrupt such a life and death event as the game against Mississippi with such trivial concerns as out University's support of a sys­tem where 85 percent of a country's popula­tion is enslaved to the other 15 percent. 
These people were so callous that they even tried to disrupt Edwards' cheers, waves and other "positive fun" with their selfish sup­port ofa whole race which cannot vote, speak freely or move freely in their own nation. Ed­wards even tells us what the cause of this sub­versiveness is, it's that perverse radical of the 1960s, Abbie Hoffman, who has brainwashed 
these good young men and women of Notre 
Dame to carry out his evil wishes. Hoffman 
was so selfish that he used to allow people to 
beat him up and jail him, just so that 
minorities in this country could enjoy their 
civil rights, how callous. 
I am glad that Edwards has exposed these 
perverse conspiracies. Thanks to Edwards we 
now know who the truly selfish people are on 
this campus are. They are the ones who show 
concern for people suffering under radical 
oppression In this world. Strange, I always 
thought that selfish meant not caring for ot­
hers. Thanks for setting me straight Edwards, I 
really appreciate it. 
Bob Scbosbinski ZabmHall 
No one at ND advocates using violence for ~ause 
DearEditor: 
Gee, Chris Edwards sure lives in a ·t'lcious 
world. For him Notre Dame, his "turf," is 
about to be overwhelmed by mindless savages 
blindly carrying out the malignant designs of. 
.. ofwho? 
Well, aside from naming Abbie Hoffman, 
Edwards is not saying. May we assume the 
"Red Menace" is the root of all this evil in its 
ceaseless designs on essential American in­
stitutions like football? 
Whatever group directs this insidious at­
tack on our precious bodily fluids, Edwards 
makes it clear that its psychotic stooges are 
not "True Domers," not of us. 
·No, these violence-prone outsiders do not 
belong to our homogeneous, "positive fun"­
loving academic community 
Perhaps Edwards is right. Perhaps pod­
people are are taking over the bodies of Loyal 
Domers, infiltrating "our stands" with the per­
versity of anti-apartheid activism. God knows 
those swine are not at one with with the spirit 
of this great University, this besieged bastion 
of the unified pro-investment. 
How long untiljohn Dettling hoists an alien flag over the dome? How long until Professor Peter Walshe lobs a brick through Father Hes­burgh's window? The soon-to-be-weeping "Domer mommies" better stock up on kleenex if sQ_mething is not done. 
Edwards has alerted us to the danger, now it 
is up to us. Student government should set up 
an Undomerlsh Activities Committee to fores­
tall all-out civil war on campus by interrogat­
ing and expelling the devious traitors before 
they threaten our fun any further with their 
selfish, anti-racist lies and their murderous 
tactics! The "jury," mob, in its infinite wis­
dom, has spoken. Sieg Heil. 
Richard Pilger Notre Dame student 




The Observer 
P 0. Box 0. Notre Dame. IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper pubhshed by the students of the Un1verS11y of Notre Dame duLac and Sa1nt Marys College. It does not necessanly reflect the pol1c1es of the adm1n1strai!On of e1ther 1nSt1tut1on The news IS reported as accurately and objectively as pos­Sible Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opm1on of a majority of the Ed1tonal Board. Commen­:anes. fetters and the fns1de Column present the v1ews ol thetr authors. Column space IS ava1lable to all members of the communtty and the free express1on of vary111g op1nions on campus. through letters. IS encouraged. 
Editorial Board 
Edltor-ln·Chl'f.............................Sarah E. Hamilton M111111glng Editor ................................. Amy Stephan News Editor ............................................. Frank Upo News Edltot ...................................Dan McCullough Saint Mwy'• &ecutive Editor ........ Theresa Gu8rino Sporta Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb Accent Editor ......................................... ~HNiy Viewpoint Editot .................................... Joe Murphy Photogtephy Editot ......................... Peter C. Lach• Copy Chief .......................................... PhiNp H. Wolf 
Operations Board 
Busmess Manager Dav1d StepheMch Controller. W1lltam J. H1ghducheck Advert1stng Manager J1m Hagan Systems Manager Mark B Johnson Product1on Manager John A. Mennetl 
Founded November 3, 1966 







Accent 
Barrier busters 
Improvements still needed 
W 
ANDREW HUGHES The readers are "mostly students, Features Writer although I've had a few administra­tion people and counselors. This hen Adam Milani arrived at year it's just when I need them, but Notre Dame for his freshman since I'm in Arts and Letters, it's year, preparation was more than the almost every night. As for writing I usual assigning a room and schedul­have a braille writer and a com­ing classes. puter with a voice synthesizer." 
"They removed a post between The handicapped students said two doors at O'Shag so that I could that in general, inclement weather get in, made some radical changes does not bother them. But Milani in the bathroom and shower at St. recalls, "Last year we had the bliz­Edward's Hall, and they equipped zard and I could not leave St. Ed's me with a remote control door for three days. It's just a hassle to opener for St. Ed's door and my get around for me like it is for room," says Milani. anyone else." 
"I want to make it clear that the "With deep snow I will oc­University does a lot to eliminate casionally walk offinto a snow the physical barriers," says the bank," says Black-Grella. "Rain is no sophomore historyI ALPA major, problem and a light snow up to who has been a quadriplegic since about a foot doesn't bother me." he broke his neck playing hockey in Looking ahead to her first winter December 1983. Milani gets around at Notre Dame, Conerty says, in an electric wheelchair "Winter will be the big test, but so nicknamed the ;,MACH 5." far I've had no problem with the 
The number ofhandicapped weather." And as Pat joked, "I don't students attending Notre Dame is know how the wheelchair will do ­increasing annually. This year 75 it doesn't have snow tires." students with physical disabilities are enrolled at the University. Ten years ago the University began to Each ofthem seems to enjoy Notre Dame. "They've made a lot of ocate for all handicapped students. recognize the needs ofits hand­being at Notre Dame, "They (the (progress) in the last year, but The University has done a great deal

''Idon't know
icapped students, but much more administration) warned me it's not they've got a long way to go. to let me be here, and the people has to be done. how the wheel-the most accessible campus," says Milarii continued, "The Univer­have done a lot, especially the guys 
SisterJohn Miriam Jones, assis­Conerty, "but it has always been my sity made a frrst step in appointing in the dorm. It's obviously going to tant provost and director ofhand­chair will do­dream to come here. I couldn't be Sister John, but for that position to improve a lot. l have grown because icapped student affairs, says that happier any place else, I love it become more valid and workable I came to Notre Dame, but l also "for at least 1 0 years we've been it doesn't have here." they are going to have to get think the presence ofhandicapped looking at physical improvements. someone with both the training and students on campus helps other We began to renovate in 1975 by ''I'm happy here; I think things time necessary to be a good adv· people grow."
snow tires. '' 
adding ramps, curb cuts, and ex­will get better as time goes on," says terior lifts." The University tries to Reese. "I think this campus is a lot 
The Near Side Mark Weimholt

deal with the needs ofhandicapped better than some ofthe others. I've
-Claire Conerly
students on a personal basis, she been very happy with the help I've said. "Ifsomebody has a particular received. I think I came here be­need, we try to identify the need cause they (the administration, St. and deal with it." Socializing is not a big problem Ed's staff, and the handicapped 

Milani also receives daily help once they meet someone, the stu­student affairs office) were so confi· from his brother Mike, who is a dents say. "I haven't encountered dent they could accomodate my 

r 
r 
r r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
senior, his roommates, and sec­ 
tionmates who "probably spend an  
hour and a halfa day just helping  
me. A nurse does come in every  
morning" to help him get up and  
get dressed, he says.  
Another St. Ed's resident, Pat  
Reese, is also in a wheelchair.  
r r r  Reese, a freshman who has had cerebral palsy since birth, has also found that the other students at  
Notre Dame have been helpful.  
"Especially in the dorm I think the  
students have been great. I'm happy  
here at St. Ed's. In my classes ifI  
need some notes, people are happy  
to give them to me. I've had no  
problem with the people at all."  
Claire Conerty, a sophomore  
,. r  transfer student majoring in com­munications, has been in a wheel­chair for the past five and a half  
years. She says of the people,  
"Everybody is really helpful. I don't  
think they're overly helpful, maybe  
r  a little shy at first, which is under­ 
r  standable. SisterJohn will call oc­ 
r  casionally; she was a big help when  
r  I arrived."  
As for the campus itself, Conerty  
thinks "for a campus as old as It is,  
it's pretty well equipped. Most  
doors are pretty easy for me to  
open by myself"  
"There are no bulidings inacces­ 
sible to me," says Darren Black­ 
Grella, a sophomore English major  
who has been blind since age seven.,  
He does have about 30 percent or  
20/600 vision in his right eye, so "I  
basically can see enough to walk on  
campus. I have a cane, but I don't  
use it. I get around pretty well; it's  
based on my need to go some­ 
place."  
Since braille reading is impracti­ 
cal in large quantity, Black-Grella  
takes advantage of the University's  
reading service, in which volun­ 
teers read textbooks to visually- 
impaired students.  

any problems socializing," says Reese, "I have been able to talk to anyone I've met.' 
Black-Grella says he has found "you can't go up to someone and ask them to dance ifyou don't know ifthey're a boy or a girl. I find a small group or one-on-one easier to deal with, but I have been to parties this year and had no trouble finding someone to talk to. It's nothing that can't be overcome." 
"The guys especially are real hesitant at first," says Conerty. "But they're pretty much open now." 
needs." 
The improvements made over the last 1 0 years notwithstanding, more has to be done, according to Milani, "For example, I cannot get in LaFortune, there aren't any elevators in the Administration Buildingor Hayes-Healy, and most dorms, especially the older ones" are inaccessible. 
Even though Milani feels the University has done a lot to help him, he feels "there's a lot left to go" for all handicapped students at 


Poster Victims 


Help us open up issues, analyze trends, review campus entertainment and interview celebrities -or write humor columns! 
There will be a meeting for all those Interested Thursday_nlght at 7ln the Observer office. 
For more information contact Mary Healy at the Observer office, 239-5313 

The Observer/Pete Laches 
Darren Black-Orella listens to lectures as a study aid. 
, 
Thursday, November 14, 1985 -page 10 -11 
Rockin' for fun and charity 

LYNNE R. STRAND 
features writer 
D 
id you miss the latest Bruce 
Springsteen tour? Weren't you 
able to get Tina Turner tickets this 
September? 
United Way Campaign '85 
If you keep missing tht•se "must evt·nts," the Notre Dame 19H'; United Way Campaign ha.~ good nt·ws for you-the Rock-A-Like lip sync contest will he ht:ld tonight at 9::\0 in Stt·phan Center. 
Besides Bruce and Tin'!. addi­tional performing a<.·t~ will include Bryan Adam!>, Tommy Tutone. the Rolling Stones with Clarence Clemons. the Village People. and Otis Day and the Knights. Even Alvin and the Chipmunks will he singing for the t lnited Way. 
And for all you Bruce SpringMeen-Kevin Herht:rt fans out there,last year's Bru<.·e will be rock­ing in a finalt: performance. 
The lucky contest winner will re<.·t:ive four tickets to the John Cougar Mellencamp concert this Saturday night. 
!'or a S:\ donation at the door, a person will receive one ballot to vote for his favorite a<.·t. Pizza and soda will he available for a minimal ft•e. 
The R<x·k-A-l.ike will he "a nightclub atmosphere," said Steve Morita, Studt·nt Activities C<x>r­dinator for the contest. "There will he little round tables and candles," in Stephan Center. The Student Activities Board is sponsoring the 
event in conjunction with the 
!Initt:d Way Campaign. 
The term "Rock-A-Like," a rem­nant from last spring's ultra­successful MS campaign, is ht:ing used in the United Way Campaign "so students can recognize that it's a lip sync (contest) like last year," stated Morita. "The name ha.'i a catch and a little ring. It doesn't matter to the students which fundraising group the Rock-A-Like is for." Morita hopes tonight will be a large turnout like la.~t spring's ­';()()or more people. 
Premier Productions will provide the lighting and cut and mix th_e tapes for free, just as they did for the Rock-A-Like last spring. "We do productions for charities like the University and South Bend Com­munity schools," commented co­owner Dean Keeler. "We try to look at the songs and coordinate the Rock-A-Like acts. We have fun doing the show." Elcctrovoke is donating S700 ofsound system equipmem for tonight's show. 
The United Way Campaign turned in S2,900 today to the local headquarters. According to co­chairman Bob McNamara, the cam­paign will collect much more money from such events as dorm donations, Tug-0-War, and Lock Up A l'riend. 
Tonight will he the la.'it time Notre Dame Security will arrest a friend, or enemy for five dollars. Applications are due before 7 p.m. at the Security office. 
"Doing it for the United Way," will be Chris Ryan, a Bryan Adams semi-look-alike. As "Ryan Adams", Ryan will be performing "Run To You." "A lot of people thought I should do this," noted Ryan, "even though I don't know how to play the guitar. I don't know music at all. 
It'll just he me and the guitar out 
there." 
Though student Mike Shields does have "a talent for the guitar," he will not be using one in tonight's show. He and his partner, Don Dickinson will be Tommy Tutone. Dickinson's experience includes performing in a high school air­guitar contes[. "It's for charity," said Shields. Added Dickinson, "We just want to have a good time. We have nerve -that's our talent." 
Touting themselves as "Bruce WITH the E Street Band," a highly enthusiastic band ofsix will per­form "Santa Claus is Coming to Town." "We have no instruments,_ we're an air-band," noted member John Sullivan. Joining Sullivan are his six Grace Hall suitemates (who have "great parties"): Mike Murphy, Kevin Fitzsimmons, John Soutar, Philip McAndrew, Dan Smith, and Cisco Vasquez. Philosophized McAndrew, "We're a reflection ofa close group working together." 
Confided Soutar, "We thought of being Diana Ross and the Supremes." 
Natives of Freehold, NewJersey, Murphy and Fitzsimmons stressed their connection with Bruce. The Gracy guys tal<e the Rock-A-Like seriously -they have been practic­ing every night from ll p.m. to midnight. 
Said the guys, "We're recruiting people to come ... we're all enthused for for the Rock-A-Like ... we want to create excitement ... the key is just to have fun." 
Herbert, last year's Rock-A-Like winner, will perform Bruce Springsteen's "Bad Lands," "for all those hard core Bruce fans," said Herht:rt. "Bruce" will bring friend Kim Dandurand on stage during the saxophone solo "so I don't have to be up there all alone." 

By winning the Notre Dame neyland, and New York City's competition, Herbert entered the Studio 54 and Hard Rock Cafe. "I'm national Rock-A-Uke last spring. He just happy to be here (Notre not only won that contest, but was Dame)," added Herbert. "The stu­featured on a MTV MS special with dents got me where I am today." Tommy Shaw, formerly ofStyx. 
Not competing this year, Herbert Though the stakes for the winner noted, "The main reason I'm doing may not be as high as last spring's it this year is for the students. Last MS contest, tonight's Rock-A-Like is year I did it for the cause-MS." no less important. 
Herbert, who was on tour for the Tal<e It from Herbert, "It's for a MS campaign, performed at Dis-very good cause." 
What ghosts are stored in your ceiling? 
PATTI TRIPATHI 
features writer 
Let your mind travel into the future -to the 
year 1990 ... 2000 ... 20 I0. Look at the change in Notre Dame over 2'; years. What's it like? Do you see the finished waterfountain out at the Stepan Mall. Is it ht:autiful? Can you rememht:r -the green gra.~s. frisbees, soal<ing up the sun out in the open field; or do you re<.·all the sinking feeling while taking a short cut through the slushy snow during the South Bend winters? 

Look at Lafortune Center, or is it the 
LaFortune Center? Is the law library 
reconstructed yet? Can you remember the 
Huddle burgers, your roommates, parietals, 
the alcohol policy, Coach Faust, Father Ted. 
Recall when the student body broke the 
musical chairs record and when the Grotto 
cauSllt fire while you were at school 2'; years 
ago. All the events that are ofconcern and are 
an integral aspect of Notre Dame may 
become a thing of the past. 
What will it be like after we leave Notre Dame? Will our student body be remem­bered as it exists in the years to come or will be forgotten as being a part of the Notre Dame community; that is, unless we return in our green and plaid attire reiterating the glory that was Notre Dame? 
A few of those who left the Notre Dame community have intentionally or acciden­tally left their sign ofexistence to those who are here and to those who have yet to arrive to Domerland. 
Many students have come across 
memorabilia above the removable ceiling 
tiles ofFlanner and Grace. These archives 
have made students aware of the past and 
caused them to contemplate their future 
folowing the four "quick" years at Notre 
Dame. 
Discovered in the Grace archives ofJohn Albers, Mike McClory and Fran Norton's room are old books, a bear-skin rug, speal<er shelves, Emil quizes, a butterfly net, a pop­corn mal<er, and many other "interesting" items. What this tells abOut the past, accord­ing to McClory, "is that lost ambition was ~tored away." 
Observers dating the year 1970 were also discovered which disclosed many interesting facts about Notre Dame fifteen years ago. 

Observers found In Grace Hall ceilings dated 1970. 
Flanner's Room 1103 also discovered achives in their ceiling which provided clues to the way life used to be at Notre Dame. Found above their room's ceiling tile was a bottle ofbeer from the last commoner party at Flanner. In order to preserve it for pos­terity, Mike Gordon, a resident at this ar­cheological site, plans to "leave a note with the beer." 
Also found in the room were old letters, tests, bills, a book on tattoed people, and a "blow-up doll," later turned into an angel for a Flanner SYR. 
Tom Sullivan and Mark Conces are the inhabitants ofthe room in which a note was 
The Observer/Hannet H..:ker 
discovered taped to the room's celling, two years ago. The note is from a 1974 graduate who lived in Room 1102 Flanner. The note specifies the date (May 19, 1974-the night before graduation day). It is signed Peter M. Lynch. Written in quotation Is a statement "We're here, and that's about it." 
Like a time capsule, these archives have helped to link the past with the present. Whether they were mlstal<enly forgotten as ­part ofhall storage or whether they were intentionally placed for specific purpose of relating one's existence here, is still a mys­tery. 

-
The Observer Thursday, November 14, 1985 -page 12 


Sports Briefs 
NVA campus all-nighter entry forms must be submitted today by 5 p.m. to the NVA office in the ACC or to the Angela Athletic Facility. For more information call the NVA at 239­61 00. -The Observer 
NVA team turkeyshootreservations must be sub­mitted today to the NVA office in the ACC. The event will be held Monday and Tuesday from 4:30 -6:00p.m. at the stadium rifle range by Gate 14. Teams must consist of two men and two women. For more information call the NVA. -The Observer 
WVFI Sports will broadcast the Notre Dame-Penn State football game on Saturday, beginning with "The Irish Today" at 2:50 
p.m.. Pete Pranica and Kelly Brothers will handle the play-by-play on WVFI, AM-64. -The Observer 
The ND basketball teams, both men's and 
women's, will hold intrasquad charity basketball games Sunday at 6:30p.m. at the ACC. Tickets are n for students and will be on sale in the dining halls this week. -The Observer 
ND Women's Track Club practices will begin Monday. Those running 800-meter and/or longer distances should meet at the main circle at 4:30 p.m.. Those running 400-meter or shoner distances, as well as those in field events, should meet at the ACC track dome at 5 p.m.. For more information call Mary Beth at 277-1983 or Nancy at 283-4222. -The Obseroer 
l 
NVA information is available by calling 239-61oo or by stopping by the NVA office in the ACC. -The Observer 
t  
I t l I  Classifieds  
t  LOST!!! Small navy Coach pu,..... Con­tai,.,. Iota of 10 plua keya' PIMae callNOTICES 4200. Sizeable rewwd oi!Oif'ed.  
t  LOST: gold Avia watch with brown leathOif'  
~  ride to Youngstown.TYPING AVAIL..A8LE band. PI-call284-4230  
I  287-4082 call Laura at 272-6014  
l  LOST: A Norton Anthology In O"Shag. ......................................................!:•••••••. prollely room 204 after 10:10 "'-·  
l  TYPING CALL CHillS D4-8117 prollely Wilda. before breal<. If you found the big ""1""Call25851ate 
it or uwaomeone pick it up. pi-letme EXPERT TYPING 277-8534 AFTER 5:30 know. carey. 3700.  
II  Call Ed 232-8230. PRO. TYPE Ov"' 15 y-.exp. Specializ­LOST: A GUESS WATCH. LOST IN ing in atudent ~. law paperw. dia­HAYE5-HEALY RM. 23. IF FOUND _,.tiona. r.um... 277-5833 PLEASE CONTACT BRUSH AT 287­6518. 1104110 WEEKLY/UP IIIAIUNG CIIIICULAMI NO QUOTAS! Sl~ FOUND: A SET OF KEYS IN A C.B. ~vi.. CUIB.Y fNTI!JIUTED RUSH NLF­JACKET AT SENIOR BAR ... YOU" MUST lul to you lor glvf.. ADDRI!UI!D ENVI!LOPE: SUCCUS, HAVE RUN OFF WITH MINE ... CALL ME PO .OX 470CI!G, WOOOSTOCK, IL AT X3489 TO IDENTIFY .... THANKS A  
l l  10018. WHOLE LOT EXPI!JIT TYPING SERVICE. CALL HELP!I!LOST MY WALLET ON MON­..._ COKI!JI, 2»-7001. DAY NIGHT(PR08AIII.. Y IN LAFORTUNE OR IN THE MAIN  
I  MYAN ADAMS IS COlliNG! LIBRARY). IT IS A NOTRE DAME WAL· in LET AND DOES HAVE MY IDENTIFICA­THI! ROCK-A-LIKE TION IN IT. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL THUMDAY, NOV.14th MICHAEL AT 234-7350 (BEST AFTER RECEIVER;50  
I  S:JO P.II., NORTH OtNING HALL 7:00PM). THANKS! SETS OF .................................... TYPING Found -Pair of ~lut WednMday 277-10411 night in front of the CSC. Hu light FREE PICKUP & DEUVEJIY brown/clear plutic tram&~~. Call x1550 to BLAUPUNKT car claim. power booeter. TYPING equip.­low  
Jeckla~ eveninga.  
1114-8711 FOUND: SMALL. GREY FEMALE CAT­IN NORTH QUAD AREA. CALL 1374 OR  
SPEED. SOME 2206 AND CLAIM YOUR KITIYIII. WEU PRICE: EVENINGS. LOST!! One CASIO WATCH.Ouaf digitalLOST/FOUND I and normal watch face. Black t.nd. If you Convert a have it. p!Mae call 2460  
LOST -ONE GOLD LOOP EARRING LOST ... DARK GREEN CARDIGAN 1226. after7.  
ABOUT 6 WEEKS AGO SOMEWHERE SWEATER ... VIRGfN WOOL/WOOl  
BElWEEN PANGBORN AND REGINA. BLEND. FRONT POCKETS. GRAY BUT­ 
IF FOUND PLEASE CALL MAUREEN AT TONS ... MARYLIN MONROE BUTTON 4154  
284-4006. ATTACHED ... MADE IN IRELAND (?) ... NOT AN EXPENSIVE SWEATER, BUT  
LOST: Gold Elgin watch. prollely at IT WAS MY FAVORITE ... IF FOUND  
Senior Bar on Halloween. Ot Mnlimantal PLEASE RETURN ... WIU GLADLY PAY  
value-gift from parents lor 18th birthday. REWARD OF DOUBLE ORIGINAL  
If found, piMaa call Angela at 272-9623. PRICE. 283-2164 or 25 Morri-y. THANKS. .  
LOST: ONE TOYOTA KEY BElWEEN  
SENIOR BAR AND CUSHING IF  
YOU'VE FOUND IT. PLEASE CALL DESPERATELY  
2631. GA"5-WIU PAY TOPFOR RENT AFTER 11PM AT 4601.  
FOUND: A watch on Sunday morning.  
1111o. Call Marte at 2450 and deeeribe lt. HOUSE FOR 2ND SEMESTER. S.  
HELPI! I loet a Kodak diac .,.,_. (and BORMS. $125/MO/PERSON. 1 MI. NO.  
valuable pix) at the Rlvi-Loclga on OF CAMPUS. CALL 674-6595 AFTER 5  
10131. If found PLEASE return to Nancy P.M.  
x2784. .  
- LOST!! A PEARL RING WITH GOLD BAND. SOMEWHERE 11/8. PLEASE WANTED  
PLEASE HELP! CALL CARRIE  
R08ERTS x3221.  
LOST: BACKPACK. NAVY BLUE-CON­Ride naedad St. Paul, MN ares for  
TAINS NORTON'S ANTHO OF Thankllgiving break call SMC 5268 or  
POETRY. t NOTEBOOK. AND A 5270  
SPANISH TEXT. NOTES VERY IMPOR­ 
TANT! IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL JIM I ,_rideto PENN STATE. Call Brian at NEEDEOSPERATELY:  
AT1807. 2937. CALL LAURA 3838  

Wanted : Rtdenl to St. Louts. -end of 11/15. Call Mike 288-4650 
can you help me? Grad etudent needs Ohio for Turkey Breal<. lolej(e my parents happy. pi­
HEY! Need nde to PennS! to eeelrilh bite 
Need riders to Atlanta area 11/27-12/1. 
TAKE liE HOME, PLEASE 
I'd like to go to St Peul, Min-lor and I'd Hke to lie lhMk­me a ride. I CM ...... anyttmellftwl:24 p.m. lllondey.
P._.cell John at 1184. 
FOR SALE 
FOR SALE KENWOOD AM-FM STEREO 
WATTS/CHANNEL -2 

PIONEER CAR SPEAKERS;ROUND·INMOUNT· MARKUS 277-0840 ANYTIME 
otereo. equalizer. 4 apeakera. powerful paco.g& deal. 289-4342 

"76 TOYOTA WAGON 4-CYLINDER. 4 RUST. RUNS VERY $750 277-5294 
bike to exOif'cycle with ateel ltlnd. immobilizes rear wheel. $15; ladies tennia l"llcket. atretcher frame. $25. 277­
FOR SALE: ONE COUGAR TICKET 264­
TICKETS 
I NEED PENN ST & LSU Go\8.212-1301 
NEED 2 LSU $$!CALL JOHN 

NEED 4 LSU GA"S CALL LYNN 284-4023 
WANTED FOR A RICH DOCTOR: 8 GAa in blocka of 2 or more for the LSU game. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Call Fran at 2687. 
HI, my IIIIIM Ia Alicia and I -your atudent LSU tlckat. $$$$$$ Pleue call 2687. 
2 LSU GA"a 
· 

NVA basketball officials are needed for co-ree basketball, men's and women's interhall, and club basketball. For more information call the NVA office. -The Observer 
The ND Weightand Fitness Club wm spon­
sor a bench press competition on Sunday, Dec. 8 at a time and loca­
·tion to be announced. Sign-ups are being taken in the third floor weight room of the Rockne Memorial Building, and any member of the ND/SMC community is welcome. For more information call Pat Browne at 283-2056.-The Observer 
Racquetball enthusiasts who are looking for competition should mail an index card to 308 Walsh Hall by Friday, Nov. 22, stating name, address, phone number, skill level, and campus court preference. For more information call Michele Debrey at 283-4526.-The Observer 
NVA Century Club is a program to promote in­dividual exercise and fitness. Applicants select an exercise and pledge a personal fitness goal. When the applicant reaches his/her goal, a free Club T,shirt will be given out. To fill out a pledge card or to get more information call the NVA office. -The Observer 
NVA fitness focus newsletter is published 
monthly and is available through campus mail at no expense. To be placed on the mailing list call NVA at 239-5100. ·The Obseroer 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor ofLafortune. Briefs should be submitted on the forms available at the office, and every briefmust include the phone number ofthe person submitting it. -The Observer 
Celtics topple Pacers 
Associated Press 

BOSTON-Dennis.]ohnson scored a season and team high 30 points, in­cluding nine in a two-minute breakaway stretch in the fourth period, and the Boston Celtics rolled to their seventh consecutive victory last night in a 118-114 National Bas­ketball Association victory over the Indiana Pacers. 
Robert Parish scored 23 points, Larry Bird 18, Kevin McHale 16, and Danny Ainge 12, and the Celtics ex­tended Indiana's winless streak on the road to 18 games over the past two seasons. 
Johnson scored 11 points in the third period as Boston broke away from a 58-58 halftime tie to take an 88-81 lead into the fourth quarter. 
Then, after Indiana had pulled into a 9I-9I tie, the Celtics called time out to putJohnson and their ot­her four starters back on the floor. 
Johnson then hit a jumper from the top ofthe key and a few seconds later scored on a driving right hook. That triggered an I I-2 Boston run for a I02-93lead. 
The Pacers, who have not won on the road since a victory in Chicago last Feb. 15, were led by Herb Wil­liams with 29 points, Clark Kellogg with 2 I and Verne Fleming with 20. 
Jh,· fJ!ht'rtt'1 'otn: U.nnc: ••lfllt' lt~LIItd •Hl rile. IIHrd tl·•~~r "' l.tl••riiiiU ""'ludnll < c·nrc·r .H' c·pl' t l.t""''Jinl .lch c rll'Hig lr'''" IJ .1 m unt II J p 111 \J, ,,,,J.n Ihr• HJ~h l rtdJ' I ht· 'JIJ\t'rl t•r '-\,tllll \1.Jn ' , dfll c.. 1, ll .Jtt l1 , 111 1ht 1l11rd tl•n •r ol IIJ).!g.Jf( ••lkgc.. (triter Jl~cpl,ll.t"rtic..d,fr•nll I.! <~.c!pm llllld 'prn \l,•n dJ\ lh•·u~h I nd.t\ lh .Jdlmc..· f,,r nc.. '' d.t\ ll.i,,tllt d ... ,, "'-p m \II ll.i"rltnl-.. llHI'I he.. J1fl"J1.11d trlht r 111 pc..·r'~•n••rh' m.ul ( l1.1r~\ ,... 111, c..·ni'flt rfl,c..·th.tr.h 
u:r.. )t·r dJ\ 
tate tlx naaded call1504 

You eee. my roommate had thia girlfriend in JefSey. She left him tor thia othOif' guy. who now goes to Penn State. My roommate woukf luuuuuv to see him. Bot. ooap opera lana. thia wiH not be pouibfe without 4 Penn •-tick.... So call ua now at 1373 and uk for BRUTUS. 
NEED PENN ST. GA"S PLEASE CALL: PHIL:288-4753 OEAN:289-3482 MARK:1897 
DESPERATELY NEED LSU STUDENT TICKETS OR GA"S. CALL TODD OR JOHN AT 1073 
I NEED 2 LSU GA"S. CALL 272-4540 
WANTED12 GA"S TO THE ST. JOE VS. NO BASKETBALl GAME ON FRIDAY NOVEMBER 22. CALL MIKE AT I 173. 
NEED 4 LSU GA"S ·CALL LIZ 284-4102 
•••..•'t...................................... . 
LSU GAa FOR SALE.272·6306 
WIU. PAY ANY PRICE FOR EJTHI!JI TWO OR THREE LSU QA"S. PLEASE CALL MUCE AT 4501 ANYTIME. 
PERSONALS 
To be handed a lol ot money ia to be handed a glaaa award, blade-first. Bear handle It very carefully . .. very IIJowty while you puzzle what il"a for. 
-Richard Bach. Tha.,.clgeAcr..aForaYw 
aqueak ... aqueak ...aqueak 
......................... OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N.• 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
EARN $$$ FOR ALL THOSE BOOKS YOU DIDN'T READ!! PANDORA'S WIU BUY YOUR USED BOOKS M-F 11-4. OR WE CAN HELP YOU FIND A USED BOOK FOR A CLASS. WE'RE OPEN M· F 11·6. SAT&SUN 10-5. PANDORA'S IS OPPOSITE CORBY'S ] 937 SOUTH BEND AVE. 
HUNGRY? Calf YEUOW SUBMARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery houra: 5pm-12pm Monday· Thuraday; 5pm-2am Friday; 3pm-1am Saturday; and4pm-10pm Sun­day. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND ·-NEW LOCATION­311EAdBidg (by Student Affaira) 
11 :30-12:30 M-F $20-200 30 days 1 pOif'cent intOif'eat 
...,........................................................... 
PITTSBURGH CLUB Thankagivtng Bus: MEETING: Thurs Nov 14 6-7 pm at Little Theatre. L..Fortune INFO: Leav• wed Nov 27 2:00 pm lrom CCE(NO) & Holy Crou(SMC) Returna: Sun Dec 1 1:00pm from Greyhound Term. in Pin. $55 roundtrip. $40 one-way QUESTIONS: Call A.J. x1844 
SENIOM MAKE TIME FOR REFLECTION IR.REFLECTlON GROUPS SIGN UP AT CSC 
BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN LIVE TAPES from all toura for aale.Call2011for info. 
HOLY CROSS WEEK "85:NOV. 9-14 WED. OPEN HOUSE. 3:30-5PM. THURS. MISS HOLY CROSS CON· TEST. CARROLL HALL: 7PM. COME JOIN THE FUN! 
NEED A RIDE TO OC/MONIR FOR TWO. WILl SHARE USUAL. CALL MAR· TIN AT 3274 WIU TELL FUNNY JOKES DURING RIDE. 
Need two LSU atudent tix. Calf Mary at 1367. 
THE UNITED WAY ROCK-A-LIKE IS HERE! TONIGH"l", 8:10 P.II. STEPAN CENTER 
I really need a RIDE to PENN STATE thtl weekend. Colleen 3568. 
ROLL CALL ALL YOU KOOKY KIDS: MMY C.ufield Who? Deggot; Dr. Intensity Gleu: Marcuo Anthony Roll OvtH Fun­role; Prince Did You See Me Play? Valiant: Jim What A Man; William Harold Trey Dottie Ill; Boo Boo Sweetcheeka ef RoHo; Bridg The Amy Look Alike with the aexy choktHWoman: Diane Outart The one who meena something apecilli and difftHentto each of us and CUTE but not leaatBaby(H)Ewie. ThankYoualfaovery much for everything. Voua Serez toujoura dana mon coeur. Love Always. Silly Refly­Polly Me . 
TAKE A BREAK FRESHMEN CHEERS! NOV. 14th AT HAGGAR BPM-9:30PM 
THE COTTON CLUB ·THE COTTON CLUB SMC"S FRESHMAN FORMAL NOV. 22nd AT THE AMERICANA 
NEW Aeroemith Simple Minda Thompson Twine MoniaOay 
and more! 
OnlyU8 Rock du Lac. 1atfloor t..Fortune 
Keenan 4-N Roommates of the Weel< TONY ""The Piano with handa"' BON­FIGLIO and PAUL "'Pray"' Service"" KUEBER Lad•ea. Gale Force Winds have Blown TWa back tn1o Open Au 

WHO IS JOHN WARD? WHAT DOES HE WANT? 
EHO:YOU"RE STIU SPECIAL'&E·BE AGGRESSIVE'LOVE.SIG 
OH SARAH-My 11>ncereat congratula­tions on betng inducted tnto the eat<mable Omtcron Delta Epsilon 10e1ety. I am proud, Chuck and Joycelyn are proud. even Orx1e ta proud. Dixie, by the w•y, rs gotng to mail you a congratulatory biacutt· chicken/live<· her favorite. No. don't thank me. juat don't let thoee economtata down' H.-ta.Cath. 
Fact One: "Apartheid 11 an evotvtng fte•ibk:l aystem of racial discnminat1on and econom1c expk>ltatron. · 
R--nda uys. ""I"d be a great SMc.· She ar.o says. ""You wouldn"l dare." 
REFLECTIONS IN THE DOME II now avadable 1n the Notre Dame Bookatore' Take a bit of Notre Dame htltory home with you for Chnatmu. From JUNIPER 
PRF.SS 

GEOGRAPHIC CLUB PRESIDENTS An organizational meettng wiM be held tonight. Nov.14, at 6:30 in the eouth lounge of Walsh Hall. Call Karen with any queationa 2764. 
Jamie. Loving you ia one thing I'M always love to do! J 
A whole YEAR!!!! I hope we"U have a "few" more! Pam ia great! Pam is great! Love Alwaya. John 
FLANNER, GRACE, P.E. & P.W. RESI­DENTS: In my lUI newalettOif'. I forgot to include my congratulation• to the outstanding football team from P.W. They capped a very aucceuful eeaaon with a gutay per· formance in a 26-22 aemi-finallou to P.E. carete~~u thia wu. I beg forgiveneu on ground8 of the late hour it wu composed and the large amount of caffeine in my body! I hope thia makea up for my mistake. Sorry! RegretfuUy Youra. Steve T. (your FAVORITE Senalor.•• right?) 
ANYTIME! ANYWHERE! I NEED A RIDE TO CHICAGO FOR THANKSGIVING BREAK! CAU MARY AT 1323 IF YOU CAN HELP ME OUT AND WE'LL CHAT! 
LIFE'S A BITCH AND THEN YOU DIE! 

The cfuaic line: Alright • where are we going? MicheHe to Arthur Anderson Jenny to IBM MB to' the Marriott Where are YOU going Sheila?-SHOPPING !!! 
Teu Guarino. you old dog you! We know what you've been up to! 
OBSERVER SMC DAY EDITORS: 

WE APPRECIATE YOU! (Thia maa,.,. you Priacila and Mary Jesn) love, me 
.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Thursday, November 14, 1985 -page 13 
Spangler wants respect ; kickers are atheletes 
John Wooldridge. But not everybody can kick a ball through 

COLUMBUS, Ohio -When it the uprights from 40 yards away, eit­comes to getting some respect, her. It's a lot harder than it sounds." place kickers such as Ohio State's Spangler hasn't made it look all Rich Spangler take a licking but keep that difficult this year. He has con­on kicking. verted 34 of 35 extra-point kicks so 
Place kickers get a raw deal, says far in his senior season, and has 
Spangler, the Buckeyes' leading added 1 1 field goals for 6 7 total scorer and the man they turn to for points. an extra point or a field goal. He was successful on 1 0 ofhis first 
He bristles at the mention of I 1 field-goal attempts, but has been place-kicking as anything but an art. in an uncustomary slump of late, "We're all non-athletes, that's the missing three of his last four at­stereotype," Spangler said. tempts. 
"Okay, maybe I couldn't play The 6-foot-I, 206-pounder from another position here because we Geneva blames the inclement weat­have a lot of talent," he said. "But I'll her of the past two weekends for his bet I could play in the Mid-American misses from misguided kicks. Conference or someplace like that at Still, the past two weeks have 
l I 
quarterback. I was a pretty fair foot­brought some landmarks. With a ball player and baseball player in perfect 5-for-5 showing In point­high school. after kicks in last week's 35-17 win 
"It's not that we aren't athletes -over Northwestern, Spangler es­it's just that we're specialists," he tablished a Big Ten record for career said. "I might not be able to go out PATs with 173. there and make the big ·hit like a Spangler has 284 career points, a Terry White, a Chris Spielman or a total that puts him into fourth place Pepper Johnson, or run for a among career scorers in the Big Ten. hundred yards like Keith Byars or The three men above him on the list 
are also Buckeyes: Pete Johnson ( 1973-76) with 348 points, kicker Vlade Janakievski ( 1977-80) with 295 and injured tailback Keith Byars (three TDs this year) with 294. 
"When I came here, I set my goals to break Big Ten records," Spangler says. "I'm just It points away from being the all-time kick scorer In the Big Ten. I hope to break that against Michigan or in the Rose Bowl. But, then again, this weekend would be nice." 


Golfer continues mastery 
KAPALUA, Hawaii · Sandy Lyle continued his mastery of the Kapalua Golf Club course, shooting a 6-under-par 66 that staked him to the lead yesterday in the uncom­pleted first round of the $500,000 Isuzu Kapalua International. 
Two players, D.A. Weibrlng and Gary Hallberg, were stranded by darkness on the course, and will complete first-round play this mor­ning. Neither had a chance of over­taking Lyle. 
Lyle, a 27-year-old Scot who holds the British Open title, used his vast length to advantage in a mid-round burst that produced seven birdies in an It-hole stretch. 
"It was a ragged start, but I made some putts to stay alive, then had that good stretch in the middle," said Lyle, who has collected $205,000 in his last two starts here. 
He won this tournament last year by an eight-shot margin and last week took the individual title in the Nissan Cup on the same 6,879-yard course. He now is 45 shots under par for his last nine competitive rounds here. 
"If there was ever a cc;>urse that was built for one player, it was this course built for Sandy Lyle," said Mark O'Meara, one of an interna­tional group ofeight tied for second at 67. 
"The golf course definitely favors a long hitter. And Sandy can carry the fairway bunkers and he's hitting irons to all the par-5s." 
O'Meara shared second, one shot back in the chase for a $125,000 first prize, with Masters champion Bernhard Langer of West Germany, Lanny Wadkins, Corey Pavin, john Mahaffey, Andy Bean, Hawaiian club 

-
pro David Ishii and Canadian Dan Halldorson. 
U.S. open title-holder Andy North shot 70 In hot, muggy weather, and Lee Trevino had a 71. 

The Observer Thursday, November 14, 1985 -page 14 

AYI'IIOfO 
Detroit's Btll Latmbeer and Earl Cureton defend against the Pacers' Clark Kellog tn an earlier season game. Laimbeer scored 21 points last night as the Pistons lost to the Bucks, 137·118. Details 
appear below. 
Milwaukee 
f 

blows out Detroit 
MILWAUKEE -Alton Lister and Ricky Pierce scored 22 points apiece to lead the Milwaukee Bucks to an easy 137-118 National Basket­ball Association victory over the Detroit Pistons last night. 
1j
The Bucks took control of the game in the first quarter as they ran off 11 straight points to grab a 36-22 lead with 51 seconds remaining as Paul Pressey drove the lane. The Bucks held a 38-25lead at the end of the quarter after Kenny Fields scored on a layup with 15 seconds left. 
Milwaukee pushed the lead to 50­
II 
3 3 with 8: 1 9 remaining in the 
second quarter as Fields scored on another layup. 
The Pistons cut the lead to 1 1 at 57-46 as Kelly Tripucka scored on a layup offbfa pass from Isiah Thomas. The Bucks then pushed the lead back to 17 at 69-52 as Terry Cum­mings hit a baseline jumper. The Bucks led 72-56 at halftime as Cum­mings hit a jumper with one second remaining in the half. 
The Bucks widened the lead to 78-56 with 10:23 left in the third quarter as Cummings scored o a layu!J. The Pistons fought back and cut the lead to eight at 88-80 as Bill Laimbeer hit a jumper with 2:57 ­remaining. 
The Bucks, with Randy Breuer scoring six of their last 8 points, led 103-88 at the end of the third quarter. 
The Bucks grabbed a 115-98 lead with 7:30 left as Craig Hodges hit a pair offree throws. After Detroit cut the lead to 13 at 11 5-102, the Bucks wideQed the gap to 20 at 127-107 with 3:03 remaining and the Bucks coas~d the rest ofthe way. 
-
Cummings scored 21 points and Hodges added 1 5 for the Bucks, who had seven players in double figures. 
Detroit was led by Tripucka with 32 points and Laimbeer added 21. 
With the victory the Bucks move into first place in the Central Divi­sion, leading the Pistons by a half­
game. 


Marshall U. survives past tragedy; hopes for 1-AA play-off position 
Associated Press 

HUNTINGTON, W.Va. -Assistant Athletic Director Ed Starling was missing his first football trip of the season so he could move his family to a new home. Co-captain Nate Ruf­fin, a defensive back sidelined with an arm injury, gave his seat on the airplane to a booster and went to the movies. 
Fifteen years later, both men remember rushingthrough the cold, rainy Saturday night to Tri-§tate Air­port, hoping reports they'd heard of an airplane crash were wrong. 
"We ran until we got to the top of the hill and all we could see was yel­low flames," Ruffin said. 
"We stayed for several hours, waiting ... But with the intense fire and burning you couldn't get within a couple hundred yards. There was nobody getting near." 
Star~ng, now an associate athletic 
director, found the site cordoned 
off. After being told "everybody's 
dead," he drove back to campus to 
compile the list of passengers on the 
DC-9. 

Since Nov. 14, 1970, Marshall Uni­
versity's history has been tied to the 
plane crash that claimed 75 lives, in­
cluding 3 7 football players, its 
coach, athletic staff and several 
boosters. 

"It was something that lingered 
over the players," said Ruffin, who 
identified the remains of his 
Keep ii ShOrt i 
=~::~;;~:;~:;:~::~·author. ~~ 




!~~! ~i~~~~! :~2 

Coach Joe 
sez: 

Ironwood is the place! 
ironwood liquors 
1725 NORT~i IRONWOOD ROAD 
SOUTH BEND. IND'ANA 46635 
You are invited to attend a Slide-Lecture­in The Annenberg Auditorium THE SNITE MUSEUM OFART 
WHATIS ART?' 
THURSDAY, November 14 . 7:30p.m. 
"Circles &Rectangles: ;ymbols in Medieval Architecture" 
by Rev. Richard J. Conyers, C.S.C. 
Open to the public. Students admitted FREE. 
Sponsored by The Friends of The Suite Museum of Art 
teammates. "Nobody wanted to come here for a while. Nobody wanted to land at that airport." 
Ruffin, now personnel director for the Huntington Publishing Co., will speak Thursday at the annual memorial service on campus. He said he thinks Nov. 14 always will be marked on some calendars. 
"It will never be forgotten, always memorialized as long as Marshall stands and as long as they have sports. You cannot strike up the band or throw a football in the air without remembering that there was a team that started out and sud­denly vanished," he said. 
"Now we have a team that is a win· ner. That is what we started out being and we ended up vanishing. The thing that got to me the worse was that my friends vanished. That is what stayed with me for so long." 
Marshall fielded a team in 1971 primarily of freshmen and sop­homores, and even t)lough the Herd won two games that season, the foot· ball program struggled. 
Marshall had the worst record of any Division I football team during the 1970s -22-84 -but it finally has battled back to respectability. Its 7­2-1 ·record this year assures suc­cessive winning seasons for the first time since 1963-64. The team has an 
outside  shot  at  a  Division  1-AA  
playoff invitation.  
"Unfortunately it  seems  like all  

the headlines about Marshall were bad," said David Walsh, a freshman quarterback on that 1970 team and now the sports editor of the Hun­tington Herald-Dispatch. "It's nice to see headline in a positive vein for once." 

NUL Standings 
PRINCE OF WALES CONFERENCE CLARENCE CAIIP.EU CONFERENCE Adame Dlvlalon lmy!M Dvlalon 
w L T OF OA Pia. w L T OF OA Pta Boston 10 5 1 70 50 21 Edmonton 11 3 1 80 52 23 Buffalo 10 5 1 66 47 21 Vancouver 8 7 2 68 69 18 Quebec 9 5 1 64 54 19 calgary 8 6 2 70 60 18 Montreal 7 7 2 66 66 16 Winnipeg 6 8 2 65 77 14 Hartford 8 7 0 58 66 16 Loa Angelet1 3 12 1 53 85 7 
Patrick Dlvlalon Norrie Dlvlalon Philadelphia 12 2 0 69 39 24 St. Louis 5 6 3 47 55 13 Waahington 8 6 2 65 56 18 Chicago 6 9 1 64 74 13 N.Y.IIIanders 7 5 2 52 52 16 Minn81018 4 8 3 57 61 11 
N.Y. Rangers 8 8 0 61 54 16 Detroil 3 9 4 49 80 10 New Jersey 6 7 1 50 53 13 Toronto 1 12 2 45 66 4 Pittsburgh 5 8 3 57 63 13 

theNight A"'ay otc\es A .41e,.ob.
G ,, 'lcs
0


lf4usic f\1-1l.._ 
{;~

Campus ~~~ 
All· Nighter Friday Starts at 6p 


Off-Campus Students 

I 
0 overnment 
-.____pe!l House 
. . TODAY\----_
!-6 p.m. --\ 
~We need your input on projects currently unde~ay or considered: \ ~ 
. 
Parking lots for off-Campus students Snow Emergency transportation plan ~ Convenient meal plan for O.C. students ~ \\ 
Come see Jim Hagan, Off-Campus Senator Jand give your suggestions or gripes. \ Don't let apathy stand in your way!~ Take a few minutes to make yourself heard! 


-~---------­
The Obserwr Thursday, November 14, 1985 -page IS 
Rick DiBernardo 




Linebacker fills roles ilt1 


By MICHAEL). CHMIEL 
.\ports Writer 
Over the years. Notre Dame foot­ball teams have usually been endowed with great strength and depth at the linebacker position. !loth inside and outside. top Irish defenses have relied upon this posi­tion to solidify the defensive unit. 'Ibis year is no different as the Irish are rich with good quantity and quality at linebacker. 
Senior Rick DiBernardo is one of these players who has helped to make the Irish defense stingy again this year. The defense has given up an average of only I I points per game in its last four tests. 
Dint·rnardo, a 6-3, 124-pound outside linebacker, has been consis­tent for the Irish primarily in a back­up role during his career at Notre Dame. While he is the first off the bench for the Irish on the outside, he is also crucial to his team as the snap­per on the specialty teams, snapping for both punts and kicks. 
"He's a player," explains Irish 
Outside-Linebacker Coach Bishop 
Harris. "He's an outside linebacker. 
and he's our long snapper on special 
teams. He's done a great job." 
DiBernardo originally chose to come to Notre Dame because of its outstanding football and academic traditions. 
"Southern Cal, llCLA, the Univer­sity of Washington and mainly schools on the West Coast recruited me," said the Garden Grove, Cal., native. "I came to Notre Dame. like everyone else, for the academics and the football tradition." 
In high school, DiBernardo let­tered in football, basketball, and vol­leyball. While lettering once as a volleyball player, he lettered three times for his basketball team as a for­ward. captaining the squad twice. On the gridiron, DiBernardo let­tered three times while his team racked up a 28-I record. 
In his last two years at Edison High School. he notched 21 0 tackles, six interceptions, and two touchdowns in roles as both a linebacker and a tight end. Chosen among the top I00 recruitS by The Sporting News and the top 50 by Football News, he was chosen as the top linebacker in the country in 1982 by Parade. 
As a freshman for the Irish, DiBer­nardo earned a monogram with strong performances on the specialty teams. In 1983, the second-year DiBernardo played in all l.l games. He logged over 76 minutes, including 14 tackles with two ofthose for losses and five solos. 
ExdtJng and Challenging Career Opportunities 
Master of Business Administration 
A small. highly selectrve MBA program has 
been des1gned by The Oh1o State University 
to prov1de professional management 
• education to students with nonbus1ness academrc backgrounds This two-year full-time program 
• 
facrlltates a h1gh level of student and faculty-student Interaction 

• 
has no prerequiSite course work 

• 
IS espec1ally attractive to students with lrberai arts. scientific, and other nonbusiness backgrounds 

• 
IS built upon a trghtly Integrated study of foundation management tools and concepts 


• offers the opportunity to concentrate 1n one or two management fields through elective course work 
• 1s offered by one of the top 25 schools of management 1n the country and is accredited by the American Assembly of Collegiate Schools of Business 
Last year's gradvates were very successful in f1nu1ng career opportunities. Examples of pos1t1ons they selected include the following: 
• 
asSIStant to the chief executive officer, Midland Mutual Life 

• 
f1eld marketrng manager. Ford Motor Company 


In that season, he also made 126 
specialty-teams appearances, 
primarily as the snapper for punts. 
"You have to be up for every 
game," says DiBernardo in regards 
to why he likes to play for Notre 
Dame. "Everyone's out ro get you 
and there is no time when you can 
slack off. When you do, that's when 
you lose. You have to be up as it's 
almost like a pressure situation, and I 
like pressure situations." 
Last year, DiBernardo provided 
the Irish with much needed support 
with good quickness and strength. 
As a junior, he logged over 127 
minutes and was third in that regard 
among Irish linebackers. He was 
credited with 30 tackles, including 
I I solos and two for losses. After 
coming off the bench against Mic­
higan State to make nine tackles 
early in the season, DiBernardo soon 
worked himself into a starting role 
for the Irish in their last four games 
of the 1984 campaign. 
This year, DiBernardo has done 
well for the Irish in their various 
defenses. Used both as a snapper and 
a linebacker, DiBernardo has already 
logged 16 tackles, caused a fumble, 
and recovered a fumble. He also was 
named as the starting left outside 
linebacker against Air Force. 
Originally, he was one of four 
players returning to the outside. 
During the season, however, he has 
come to be more ofa key ingredient 
as the Irish have been forced to 
change from a 5-2 defense to a 4-3 
defense where they rely upon five 
linebackers. 
''I'm like the sixth man in basket­ball in my role," explains the senior. ''I'm a back-up for the outside linebacker, and when we're playing a 4-3. I'm right behind (Mike) Larkin (ill weak-side linebacker). (When .we're in a 5-2) I'm behind (Cedric) Figaro and (Robert) Banks at end and that's basically like playing tackle. So basically, I'm like a sixth man who has to play all of the outside positions whether it's at tackle, defensive end, or outside 
linebacker." 
When on the field, DiBernardo 
believes that his academic approach 
to the game is his greatest asset as he 
needs to know these three positions. 
He also favors the 4-3 defense ~ it 
has been a part of the current four 
game winning streak for the Irish. 
Harris also believes in his strength as 
an academic player. 
"His greatest asset as a player is his 
consistency and his academic ap­
proach to the game," said Harris. 
"What does he add to the team? ... a 
great deal of leadership and his ex­
perience." 
• 
management tra1nee with an 1nternat1onal assignment. Chase Manhattan Bank 

• 
assistant product manager. Pillsbury 

• 
f1nanc1al analyst. Hewlett Packard 

• 
Inventory control manager, I~M Corporation 

• 
account executive. Merrill Lynch 

• 
consultant. Price Waterhouse 

• 
management trainee with an international 


assignment. Procter and Gamble For a brochure describing this program and application information. please contact: 
DlriKtor, MBA Progr.ams 
The Ohio S~te University 
112 Hagerty Hall 1775 College Road Columbus,. OH 4321G-U99 614-422-8511 

The Ohio State University 
I 

l j 
. Going into the Penn State game, 
DiBernardo believes that the Irish 
are on a roll and have the momen­
tum to emerge triumphant. 
"We're going to go all out against 
Penn State," said the senior. "We 
have a lot to prove. We have lost 
three games and they're 9-0. I think, 
however, that ifwe play like we have 
in the last four weeks, it's going to be 
very good for us come game time." 
For the rest of this season, the 
senior concentrates on his personal 
and team goals in a hope and desire 
to win the remaining three games on 
the Irish schedule and go to a major 
bowl. 
"Personal goals, which are also 
team goals, would be to win our last 
three games," explained DiBer­
nardo, "and hopefully go to a major 'bowl." 
"I think that we (the Irish) are 
very confident with ourselves right 
now, and that we believe in our­
selves," continued the senior. "We. 
think a lot more than we used to on 
the field. We're a very smart ball 
club, and we're more sound than we 
were. Everybody has confidence in 
the next person, and we're really jel­
ling right now." 
For the present, however, the 
Irish must rely upon the continued 
strong and dedicated efforts of 
players like DiBernardo in their 
drive for post-season action. 
Volleyball seeded 2d in North Star tourney 
ByTOMYOON 
Sports Writer 
~ith the Notre Dame women's volleyball team's season winding down, the Irish are getting ready for the North Star Conference Championship tournament in St. Louis this weekend. Out of the eight teams that are in the conference, the Irish are seeded second and have a first round bye. DePaul is seeded first. 
"We've been playing up and down lately," commented Irish Head Coach Art Lambert. "Unfortunately it's been more down than up. It seems rhat the team plays in a lot of short spurts, as was seen last night against Purdue. We just can't seem to keep the momentum going. 
"As we enter the tournament, I would have to say that we are playing well as a team," continued Lambert. "But since there are good teams competing in the tournament, it still is anybody's cham­pionship. I think we have a good shot at winning this title as long as our middle plays well. As the middle plays, so goes the team. If the middle plays consistently, we should have a very rewarding tourna­ment. But if it played like it did against Purdue, there could be some long matches." 
In discussing certain players, Coach Lambert said that Jill Sugllch and Karen Sapp have played better as the season progressed and Is very pleased at the progress that Zanette Bennett, a freshman, has made through the season. While many individuals have played well, it just seems that the Irish couldn't put it together as a team. With a good performance this weekend,the Irish could knock oft' top­seeded DePaul and bring home the championship. 
The Observer Thursday, November 14, 1985 -page 16 

Giants to decide fate; new park or Denver? 
Assoclated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -The San Fran­cisco yiants will discuss their desire to leave Candlestick Park, perhaps temporarily for Denver, with a com: mittee of National League ex­ecutives today. 
League President Chub Feeney said yesterday he will join Peter O'Malley of the Los Angeles Dodgers, Ballard Smith of the San Diego Padres and Bill Giles of the Philadelphia Phillies in a meeting Thursday with Giants' owner Bob Lurie. 
"We're going to talk about the Giants' problems with the stadium," Feeney said. "We want to get an idea of where they are, what they're thinking about, what they want to do." 
All the National League clubs received a letter from the San Fran­cisco city attorney in September threatening them with lawsuits if they approved a move by the Giants that breached the team's lease at Candlestick. 
Feeney labeled as "speculation" a report that a decision on the future of the Giants could result from the meeting. Asked if it were reasonable speculation, he said, "I don't think so." 
Lurie has said several times that under his ownership the Giants will not play again at cold and windy 

Drugs 
continuedfrom page 20 
private life, especially in sports which are not scholarship. 
"It's not that we (the team mem­bers) have anything to hide. The feeling is just that what we do in our own time is our own business." 
Miles likes the policy as a whole but has problems with some of its disciplinary aspects. 
"I think it's good that they give you a chance (after the first positive test)," says the senior, who cap­tained the soccer team this ye~. 
"I think it's disproportionate from the first time to the second time," he added. "They need to do a little more one-on-one." 
Correction Because ofan editing error, the caption beneath yesterday's vol­leyball picture incorrectly iden­tified three members of the Notre Dame women's volleyball team. The players were Jill Suglich ( 7), Zanette Bennette ( 12) and Karen Sapp ( 6).  
Don't be a House Plantz on Saturday be a ·Power ~~~e "'7.•l';p ~aanin~+ ~f~ ~~{........ ~P.:=mn '~<···. r_ N__ \~ .·..:'·. .:>laid ~.... 1· "~x \, · J Good Luck, ' Laurat -~  

Candlestick Park, where they have a lease through 1994. 
Lurie also said he has no plans to sell the club, which has lost money in all but two of the 10 seasons he has owned it. 
"My commitment to finding a solution to our current problems which will keep the Giants in San Francisco remains unshakeable," Lurie said in a statement Wednes­day. 
The Giants recently made a bid to share the nearby Oakland Coliseum with the American League's Oakland A's until a downtown stadium is built in San Francisco. But the Gants were rebuffed by the A's, the Coliseum board and Oakland city of­ficials. 
San Francisco Mayor Dianne Feinstein backed the plan to move temporarily to Oakland, but gave a cool response to an alternative plan by the Giants to move to Denver un­til a downtown San Francisco stadium is built. 
On Tuesday, the San Francisco Board of Supervisors took the first official steps to appease the Giants and the San Francisco 49ers football team, the stadium's other unhappy tenant. 
The board approved a renegotiated lease with the 49ers that includes a $27.8 million renova­tion of the park. 

Crowds ltke this one of 1,632 in a game against Philadelphia this season are one reason why the San Francisco Giants are considering movingfrom 
FOR ALL YOUR EYE CARE NEEDS­
COMPLETE EXAMS 
contacts, glasses ND /SMC students, F acuity and Staff Show Your I.D. and Receive 20 "/.OFF GLASSES OR CONTACTS 
Excluding Specials 

ProfessionalVtsion 
ASSOCIATES 

1341 Portage
1635 N.lronwood 
234-2400
277-1161 
Martin's Shopping
South of U.S. 23 
Center 


~llst • ~~nd~;ts·l'~e : 1\ tlte g j0re·•· • to1"o"ed be '\: 
J..J ..,.,. • 
~~T\\9-c\4...,., • ~ ~u't.-1 : 
~u'f.., 

Ci'-''t.-' •


/,0"", • 
J~i 

Tickets are $6.50, $5.50, $4.50 A dollar off to students and senior citizens. For ticket information ca/1284-4626  

SUNSHINE PRDMDTIDN PRESENTS: JOHN COUGAR MELLENCAMP THE SCARECROW TOUR Saturday. Nav•mb•r t&. 8:DDpm Natr• Dam• A.C.C. . Alla•ata r•••rv•dI t4.5D tickets available at the ACC Box Office, area Sears, Robertson's, Elkart Truth J.R.'s Music Shop (La Porte), St. Joseph Bank (Main Office) Record World (G~) an" Music l't'laglc(Benton Hr  


: Happy Birthday, Scooooop!l-: 
e Ray Broc Jack Diane Fish Pinhead e e Dave Rands G-Man Kathy Connie Meat e e Corky Dave Rods Kathleen Bern Anne e e Cujo Rock Scott Lynnle Moe e e Jim Skole Ed Carmel &Marty Moose e 

















The Observer 
Thursday, November 14, 1985 -page .1 7 




NV A Hours 
dBASEII® 
Rockne Memorial

sets the data management 
Monday to Friday 7 a.m. to 1 a.m 

standardfor 8-bit computers 
Saturday to Sunday 10 a.m. to 11 p.m. 
HERE'S HOW: 
Swimming Pool 
• Powt.·rful English lan~ua~· commands mana~c d<:tta Monday to Friday 7:I5-9 a.m., I2:05-1:15 p.m. 
forowr 1.000.000• users. 
3:10-4 p.m., 8:30-11 p.m.Saturday & Sunday I p.m. -.6 p.m., 7 p.m.-II p.m. Come See a Demonstration Today. 
Fr. Lange Weight Room 
Monday to Friday 3:15 to 11 p.m.
Saturday & Sunday Noon to 5:30p.m.
1'395 • 00 t--1-AS-:-::::-HlD=-===~~~N~· ­

htW£==.. 

ACC 
( (

d~'al Sp<Ciahzinq in wmputu 'oft''""' 
I

Monday to Friday 7 a.m. to 1 a.m. 
~ 1? 1? 
hardware and book.~. 
Saturday 7 a.m. to 11 a.m. 
Sunday 1 p.m. to 11 p.m. ~ ~d_b Mon. thru Fri. 10-5 
j
Ice Rink 

1639 N. Ironwood Drive Sat. 12-5 Monday,Wednesday,Friday Noon to 1 p.m.Saturday 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. Sunday 2:30p.m. to 4:30p.m. 

Diamond. "We want to keep the was a great experience," Magill said. season going." "I want to go back this year." 


Irish 
"To live up to our potential, we A great deal ofemphasis has been have to qualify for nationals," added placed on this race. Pressure may
continuedfrom page20 
Warth. have gotten to eome teams in the 
will be competing against past, but this team is prepared to use 
Northwestern and Indiana for the Notre Dame definitely has ex· It to their advantage. 
third and fourth team spots. A fifth perience going for it. The Indiana From all angles it appears the team 
place showing could mean the end state meet, In which the Irish placed is definitely ready for districts. The 
of the season for the Irish, and pos­third, was held on the same course. training has been completed, and all 
sibly the end of the careers of the Also, Tyler, Magill, and Collins all ran that remains Is for the race to be run. 
four senior runners. at nationals last year, and the "We know how important it Is," 
"All the seniors want to perform memories are still vivid. summed up Magill. "Plane has 
well, especially since we haven't "Going to nationals last year and prepared us physically. Now all we 
done as well as last season," said doing as well as we did ( 19th place) have left is to do it." 


Holy Cross Fathers 
Vocational Counseling 
For personal, con.fi~ential on campus at 
interview with no obligation,Moreau Seminary 
please write or call a vocation Notre Dame, IN 
director. Box 541, Notre Dame,IN 46556

How dol know if I have a vocation to the priesthood? 
For appointment, call between 8:30am & 4:30 219-239-6385 

Wat is the academic and formation program for becoming a priest? 
--------~ ---··-------­
--· 

Wat scholarships and financial aid are available for seminary training? 
What are the various apostolic ministries of the Holy Cross priests? 
How dol pray 

Fr. Michael Couhlg,C.S.C., 
if I'm thinking of a vocation to the priesthood 
HEINEKEN 

Fr. Paul Doyle,C.S.C 
and I'm not sure? 

379 

7\'©>~@Will®


1-11 oz. 
IU % BARREL KEGS 
NOTRE DAME•s OWN ADVERTISERS IIJJ or BUD LIGHT 35" 


OLD MILWAUKEE 2811 



SEAGRAM'S COOLER 
PRICES 
THRU



2~!CK 
GOOD 
11-16-85 
. . 
254 Dlxleway North 
Roseland
,____
. -­
272-2522 
1621 South Bend Ave. South Bend 
233-4603 
We need Poster Hangers. 
If interested, see the Finanicial Aid Office. 

"You just never know where it might take you..." -Extra-Curricular 
239-7668 

A.Modated Press 
NEW YORK -Soft-spoken but hard-throwing Dwight Gooden of the New York Mets became the youngest player ever to win the Cy Young award, receiving unanimous acclaim yesterday as the best pitcher in the National League last season. 
Gooden, who turns 21 on Satur­day, also became the first pitcher to win Rookie of the Year and Cy Young awards in successive seasons. The right-hander had a record of 24­4 and led the National League in
I 
earned run average, strikeouts, com­
l 
plete games and innings pitched.
f 
Gooden received 120 points, in­
I ! cluding all 24 of the first-place votes cast by the Baseball Writers' Associa­tion of America, becoming the seventh pitcher to receive the award 
I unanimously. 
t 
John Tudor of St. Louis, 21-8 during the season, was second with 65 points, followed by Orel Her­shiser of Los Angeles with 17, Joa­quin Andujar of St. Louis with 6, 
Fernando Valenzuela of Los Angeles with 4, Tom Browning ofCincinnati with 3 and Jeff Reardon of Montreal with I. 
The other unanimous winners were Sandy Koufax in 1963, '65 and '66; Denny McLain in 1968; Bob Gib­son in 1968; Steve Carlton in 1972 and '77; Ron Guidry in 1978, and Rick Sutcliffe in 1984. 
Votes are cast by two members of the BBWAA from each National League city with a first-place vote counting five points, three for second and one for third. 
"I'm honored to have my name listed with the other Cy Young win­ners," said Gooden. "So much has happened to me in such a short period of time-Rookie of the Year last year and now this. Still, I would gladly trade both ofthese awards for one World Series ring. That's what I will be shooting for next year." 
The Observer Thursday, November 14, 1985 -page 18 
Cy Young awarded; Gooden named by all 

The award came to Gooden three days before his 21st birthday, making him 13 days younger than Valenzuela when the Dodgers' southpaw won his Cy Young Award in 1981. Valenzuela was 10 days past his 21st birthday when he won the award on Nov. 11 ofthat year. 
While consistently downplaying his own accomplishments in rela­tion to those ofthe team as a whole, Gooden had the kind of season that made him stand out from the rest. 
His ERA of 1.53 was a team record, and he led the league with 276 2-3 innings pitched, 268 strikeouts and 16 complete games. He also had eight shutouts, second in the NL to Tudor's 10. 
Gooden was the first pitcher since Sandy Koufax in 1966 to lead the league in the pitching triple crown categories of victories, ERA and strikeouts. Six pitchers besides Gooden -Koufax, Walter Johnson, Grover Cleveland Alexander, Dazzy Vance, Lefty Grove and Hal Newhouser -have led the majors in those categories, and all but Newhouser are in the Hall ofFame. 
With a 17-9 record in his rookie season of 1984, Gooden has a career record of 41-13. 
Gooden had the season's longest winning streak, 14 straight victories from May 30-Aug. 25, breaking the club mark of 10 by Seaver in 1969. He went 31 consecutive innings wit· bout allowing a run and put together a string of 49 consecutive innings from Aug. 31-0ct. 2 without allow­ing an earned run. 
On Aug. 25, at the age of 20 years 9 months 9 days, he became the youngest pitcher in modem baseball history to win 20 games. Bc;fore Gooden, Bob Feller of the American League's Cleveland Indians won 20 games at age 20 years 1 0 months 5 days in 19 39. The youngest previous NL 20-game winner was Christy Mathewson, who won No. 20 in 190l at age 21 years 1 month 9 days. 

--Free Raireuts-­Our styled haircuts are only $6.00 and now we'll give you a card that entitles you to every 5th haircut free Call or walk on over­
,-----------------------.
The Varsity Shop 
Open 6days Edison Rd. at St Rd 23
Evenings until 7:30 
277-0057 
.........pecial__... 
so<t 14o~. 
....__Draft 
For Club Rentals... call Bryan Dedrick 


~-~~----­
'JI['~.cllC3l~------------------------------------------T•h•u•r•s•d-ay_,_N_o..ve_m__b_e_r_1_4_,_1_9_8_5_-_P_a_g_e_1__9 Bl'r,. t: Breathed The Far Side <.iary Larson 
I 
'1"4/V"' COIJ1(; C:W OV! ;,-'f(.4'( 
/?1/NC& !IV YO/Jf? fii?&S. 
~I~_£~) 
-.o,. 


~ 
. ~­
'" Zeto 
WW<'? WI-ll{?! HE"5' OLLIE' TI-lE A'/£f 1-+E HATES rr WHEN "(OU 
SKIP 1-1/S CLASS! HE"S 
THE" GRIM REAJ=ER! 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Schusses 5 Golf stroke 
• 9 Car barn 14 London gallery 15 Border river 
lnEur. 16 Lincoln Center offering 17 Current type: abbr. 
18 Lacquered metalware 19 Parapeted 
earthwork 20 Red-letter 22 Pork and veal 23 Not any 24 Resort 26 Kind of pewter 27 Almost not 
at all 30 Gem 32 Chicago 
airport 33 Efficiency 37 Mme. Bovary 
38 Maternally ©1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Righ1s Reserved
related 
Wednesday's Solution 
39 Ballet movement 4 Mediocre 40 Sayover 5 Plant science 42 Hollywood's 6 Hacienda Keaton building block 43 Murder to a 7 Bringdownmobster 8 Orange­44 Bandleader 9 Latent Woody 10 Sword 45 Nile reptile 11 Foot lever 
48 Appraisal fig. 12 Emulate 49 Half: pref. Webster 50 Walk off with 13 Strong-scented 
52 National lore herb 57-Domingo 21 Function 58 Auction word 25 Dermal outlet 59 "-Rhythm" 27 Gardener at 
60 Pop star John times 61 Land in water 28 Self-pitying62 Chinese: prel. words 63 Lingo 29 Branches 36 Young suffix 49 Word for Dolly 64 Ancient lyre 30 Freshet 38 Notable times 51 Like-of 65 Alphabetic run 31 Reliances on 41 Soon bricks 
experience 42 -·tasse 53 Sphagnum 
DOWN 33 Russ. grand 44 Drover 54 Not fer, back· 1 Watch winder duchess 45 Dummies woods style 2 Garden green 34 Ancient land 46 Horse's place 55 "-Nanette" 3 CPA's entry 35 Foch of films 47 Five: pre!. 56 Upon 

Kevin Walsh 
"Saaaaaay, aren't you a stranger in these parts? Well, I don't take candy from strangers." 
Campus 

•9:00 
A.M. -S:OO P.M. -Sign-ups for Senior •7:00 P.M. -Volunteer Meeting, Little Reflection Groups, Center for Social Con­Theater, LaFortune Student Center, cerns Sponsored by Non-Varsity Athletics, For all 

•12:00 
P.M. -Lecture, Professor G. Robert those interested in helping with the NVA AII­Blakey, University ofNotre Dame, Hon. Abner Nighter on Friday, Nov. IS 

J. 
Mikva, U.S. Court of Appeals for the District •7:00 P.M. -Meeting, Anti-Apartheid Net­of Columbia, Law School Lounge, Sponsored work, Center for Social Concerns " by The White Center on Law and Government •7:00, 9:00 and 11:00 P.M. -Movie, 

"Cartoons", Engineering Auditorium, 


•12: 
1 S P.M. -Faculty Seminar, "The Na­Sponsored by Student Activities Board, S1.00 tional Labor Relations Act at SO", David Lewin, •7:30 P,M, -Meeting, AIESEC, Micro Com­Columbia University, Board Room, Hayes­puter Lab, Math and Computer Building, For Healy Center, Sponsored by College of Busi­all AIESEC members interested in Learning ness Administration Word Processing on a Mac 

•4:00 
P.M. -Lecture, Distinguished Alumni •7:30 P.M. -Lecture, Apartheid Awareness Lecture Series, F. Nordy Hoffman, Speaking on Week, Julie Jensen and Sr. Franzita, Stapleton his career in labor unions and government, Lounge, Saint Mary's, Sponsored by Saint Room 124 Hayes-Healy, Sponsored by Mary's Student Government and Peacemakers 


S.A.R.G. and Student Government 
•4: 
1 S P.M. -Lecture and Discussion, "The •7:30 P.M. -Slide Lecture, "Circles and Rec­National Labor Relations Act at SO", David tangles: Symbols in Medieval Architecture", Lewin, Columbia University, Room 122 Reverend Richard J. Conyers, C.S.C., Christ Hayes-Healy, Sponsored by College of Busi­the King Church, South Bend, Annenberg ness Administration Auditorium, Sponsored by The Friends ofThe 

•4:30 
P.M. -Lecture, "Rotifer Defense Mec­Snite Museum of Art, Friends -$2.00, Non­hanisms", Professor john Gilbert, Dartmouth members -S1 .00, Students -free College, Galvin Life Science Auditorium •8:00 P.M. -Concert, Notre Dame/Saint 

•7:00 
P.M. -Presentation and Recepdon, Mary's Collegiate Choir and Saint Mary's The Northern Trust Company, Upper Lounge, Women's Choir, Uttle Theater, Moreau Hall, University Club, Sponsored by Career and Saint Mary's, Sponsored by Saint Mary's Placement Services, Open to Finance, ALPA, Department of Music ECON, Accountancy and Management •9:30 P.M. -Lip-sync contest, Rock-a-like, Seniors interested in career opportunities Stepan Center, Sponsored by Student Ac­with the Northern Trust Company tivities Board, S3.00, profits go to United Way 


Dinner Menus 

Notre Dame Saint Mary's Baked Ham Baked Meatloaf with Mushroom Gravy Turkey Pot Pie Sweet and Sour Pork Hungarian Noodle Bake Broccoli Cheddar Quiche Mushroom and Cheese Encrote 
TV Tonight 
8:00P.M. 16 Bill Cosby Show :Z8 Lady Blue 
22 Magnum, PI 34 Mystery 
28 The fall Guy 9:30P.M. 16 NlghtCoun
34 34 front lO:OOP.M. 16 Hill Street Blues 
8:30P.M. 16 family Ties ll Knou Landing 
c 



Thursday, November 14, 1985 -page 20

S~orts 
ND starts drug tests; NCAA to follow suit 
By GREG STOHR refers him or her to further profes­
sional help if the arbitrator deems 
more counseling necessary. Only 
antiicipation of NCAA drug­after a second positve test is the ath­
testing legislation, the Notre Dame letic departent notified. The latter 
Athletic Department has been tes­scenario has yet to occur, says 
ting Irish athletes for drugs since last Boulac. 
spring, according to Assistant Ath­"Our office has yet to be notified," 
letic Director Brian Boulac. he says. "If it would come to our 
At Its convention in January, the office, depending on the stage ofthe 
NCAA will probably enact a policy season, the penalty would be some 
which will call for testing ofathletes type ofparticipation penalty." 
at NCAA championship and bowl Player reaction to the program is 
games. mixed. Some, such as freshman foot­
"The program was started basi­ball players joe Kelty and Mike 
cally because of the steps the NCAA Brcik, have no problems with the 
has been taking," says Boulac. "We policy. 
wanted to be in place when the "The program isgood," says Kelty, 
NCAA steps in. "because if you get caught with 
"We wanted to let the athletes drugs, you seek help, and you have 
know that it (drug use) is·a serious good will, you can't really be turned 
problem." in. 
Notre Dame is one of 96 NCAA "It's not a verybig issue. I've never 
Division I schools which test for heard anyone complain about it." 
drugs. 45 others are considering im­Boulac agrees. 
plementing drug-testing programs. "For me and for most ofthe others 
All Notre Dame varsity athletes I can speak for, it doesn't bother us," 
are now being tested for "street says Boulac. "It doesn't bother me 
drugs," such as marijuana and because I'm not dependent on 
cocaine, at the beginning of their drugs." 
respective seasons. Many also are Others, such as soccer player 
selected randomly for repeat testing Dave Miles and field hockey player 
later In the season. In addition, the Christina Weinmann, have some 
athletic department randomly tests reservations about the program. 
some athletes for anabolic steroids. "I personally don't mind it," says 
Under the Athletic Department's Weinmann, a senior. "But Idon't like policy, an impartial arbitrator con­the fact that they infringe on your ducts the tests. In the event ofan ath­Senior co-captain john Magill, shoum here in an lete's first positive drug test, the see DRUGS, page 16 earlier season meet, leads the Notre Dame cross­arbitrator meets with the athlete and country team into the NCAA District W Champion-
Irish cross-country team heads to district championship 


11K' ObKrv~r/Hanncs HackC'r 
ships today. Pete Gegen previews the meet in his story below. 

By PETE GEGEN 
Sports Writer 
Over the course ofthe season, this team competes against other col­leges in several meets. All along, though, the team is preparing itself for what may or may not be the last meet ofthe season. The team, having paced itself throughout the season, tries to reach its peak at this point. 
"This is THE race,"says one run­ner. "This is the most important race of my career," says another runner. 
What could be so important that an entire season is used in prepara­tion for this race? To those who un­derstand cross country, the answer is clear. 
The team is the Notre Dame cross­country team. The runners are Craig Maxfield and Tom Warth, respectively. And the all-important race is districts. 
After five meets and three strong weeks of training, the Irish head to Bloomington, Ind., today to prepare for the NCAA District IV cross­country meet. The race will be held Saturday at 11:30 on the hilly In­diana Universiy golf course. 
Notre Dame will be represented by seniors Jim Tyler, John Magill, Tom Warth, and Tim Diamond, juniors Mike Collins and Craig Max­field and freshman Ron Markezich. 
The alternate is sophomore Rick Mulvey. 
The field for the district meet features number-one ranked Wis­consin, number-five ranked Purdue, and number-fifteen ranked Northwestern. Also included are the champions of the Mid-America, Misouri Valley, Central Collegiate, and Midwe·st Collegiate con­ferences. Notre Dame is the MCC champion. 
"We have the toughest district in the nation," noted head coach joe Piane. ''I'm sure when you talk to coaches in other districts, they say their district is the toughest. But with the number of ranked teams in our district, it's the toughest. 
"Every district is allowed three teams to go on to nationals," he con· tinued. "But because of the quality and depth of our district, we get a fourth spot." 
Clearly the Irish have their work cut out for them. They have had three strong weeks oftrainingwhich included fast continuous runs, hills, and timed medium-distance runs. 
"Basically we just duplicated what we did last year when we went to nationals," said Tyler. "Maxfield and Collins especially have shown a lot gf improvement. They've been right at the top in the workouts." 
The team strategy going into the race will be the same as usual-run as a pack. Although the team has had trouble grouping together in the races, the latest indications, such as the MCC conference meet, have been encouraging. 
"We need the top five guys to run well, and Maxfield and Diamond to stay up close to them,"said Piane. 
Districts will also be the longest race of the season for Notre Dame, covering 10,000 meters. 
"We need to get out and run con., sistent 1000's," said Magill. "We need to form a packoffive or six run· ners and run together through 8000 meters." 
Acknowledging the strength of Wisconsin and Purdue, Notre Dame 
see IRISH, page 17 

Will Irish take advantage of a big opportunity? 
For the Notre Dame football team, it's a week ofoppor­tunity. 
When they take on number-one Penn State this Saturday in University Park, the Irish will have the opportunity to get a few monkeys off their backs. Although Notre Dame has been playing well lately, the Irish have yet to defeat a Top-Twenty team this season, and they still have not won a game on the road in '85. Against the Nittany lions they have a chance to do both. 
While Head Coach Gercy Faust realizes that the Irish have a chance to gain increased national respectability with a wio over Penn State, he doesn't want his players to get too caught up in the fact that the Nittany lions are 9-0 and top-ranked. 
"Sure, this game is great opportunity for this team, and the players deserve an opportunity like this," says Faust. "But what it comes down to is that it's still a football game, a fun game, and we're looking forward to it. But we've put a lot of work into our preparations, because there's ob­viously a lot at stake. Pride is a factor too." 
So are Irish ready to cash in on a golden opportiunity to upset the nation's top-ranked team? Faust sees his team's attitude as a solid indication that they are. 
"We've been playing with confidence lately," he says. "And because ofthat we've been winning. We've been get­ting better each week, and we're getting healthy too." 
A lack of injuries has certainly helped the Irish lately. Notre Dame suffered no serious injuries in either the Navy or Mississippi games, and some of the earlier-season wounded are starting to return to active duty. Reserve 

Lar-ry Burke 
Football Notebook 
strong safety Brandy Wells, who missed the Navy game with a strained abdomen, came back tP play in the Mississippi game. Meanwhile starting defensive tackle Wally Kleine, who has been out of the lineup undergoing arthroscopic knee surgery on Oct. I3. has resumed prac­ticing this week and could see some plaving ti -nc ')aturday. Starting center Ron Plantz suffered a sprained ankle against Mississippi, but began practicing Tuesday and should be ready for Penn State. 
"At this point in time we're in good shape as far as the injury situation is concerned," adds Faust. "But you never know about things like that. Against Air Force we had two guys get sick on the day ofthe game." 
The injury situation is something that varies from day-to­day, but the attitude of the team evolves over a period of weeks. And right now the attitude is good; the team seems loose and confident. 
"Obviously the wins have really helped," says Faust. "Over the last few weeks we've taken away the myth that we couldn't win at home. Ifyou add up the total number of points we've scored in ourfive home games this year ( 166) and compare it to the number of points we've allowed in those games (54), it really shows." 
But while the wins have come easily at home this year, the Irish have found road victories hard to come by. Faust says the team has played well on the road, however. 
"We've always been a pretty good team on the road," says Faust. "This year we had one really bad game on the road, that was at Purdue. The other two, Michigan and Air Force, could have gone either way. For instance against Michigan it was a roughing the passer call that turned the game around. 
"We've played some of the best teams in the nation al­ready," says Faust. "And over the next three weeks we're going to play three more ofthe best teams ( LSU and Miami after Penn State). The next three weeks provide us with a big opportunity, but we've just got to keep playing with confidence and take one game at a time." 
Penn State's Beaver Stadium is the place to start. 
IRISH ITEMS-Wet conditions have forced the Irish to the turfofCartier Field for this week's practices. Tuesday's was the only workout to take place on the grass. Beaver Stadium is a natural grass field. . Junior Steve Beuer­lein and sophomore Terry Andsrysiak have been splitting time a quarterback this week, but indications are that Beuerlein will get the starting nod against Penn State. Over the last five games, the Irish have averaged 21 5 yards on the ground, as compared to 112 yards over the first three games. Passing yardage has dropped slightly, however, from 179 yards per game over the first three to 1 75 over the last five. Saturday's kickoff is set for 3:30p.m., under the Musco lights in front ofa capacity crowtl of83,770 in Beaver Stadium. 






