--~------,......---------------­
South Africa -page 6 

VOL XIX, NO. I 3 7 the indl"pcndt"Jll ~tudt·nt lll"\\~papl"r ~en ing Jltllfl dame and ~a111t man·~ TUESDAY, APRIL 30, 1985 

~ 
The Observer/Nicholas Griflin 
Cultural crossroads 
An Indian visitor experiences a bit of culture DorrAvenue outside the Notre Dame campus. shock while encountering an American biker on 

Healy requests Senate members join protest of William Bennett 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI 
SentorStaffReporter 
Student Body President Bill Healy asked the Student Senate to attend today's protest of William Bennett, secretary of education and recipient of this years Thomas]. White Award from the Law School at last night's meeting. 
A "mild protest" is planned for today at 11:45 a.m. in front of the Law School, according to Senator 
K.C. Culum. 
Bennett will be speaking at noon extent of the education cuts at the Law School, but Culum said it surprised him. will be difficult for undergraduates "I'm surprised he got the award," to get seats because most are said Healy. "I think a lot of students reserved for Law School students. will show up to ask questions. A lot 
Culum urged students to bring ofpeople don't support the cuts." signs that read, "Education is a right, In other business, Sophomore not a privelege." Class President Jim Domagalski said 
The protest is in response to Ben­WVFI station manager Reginald nett's backing of President Reagan's Daniel had asked for student govern­proposed budget cuts for financial ment's support to "make it a quality aid. radio station." 
Healy said he realizes there must be federal budget cuts but added the see SENATE, page 5 


Election dispute divides ISO leaders 
By LISA M. BOYKIN 
News Staff 
The International Student's Or­ganazation is "reeking with corrup­tion," according to Mansour Eid who ran for the office ofpresident in the the recent controversial elec­tions. 
According to Eid, the ISO's con­stitution states that elections are to be held during the last week of March. If the candidates running for the office of president and co­president are unopposed at this time, they automatically are ap­pointed to office. Additionally, a committee is to be appointed to handle the elections. 
This year, however, elections were postponed until April 11 be­cause former President Winston Griffin, "was sick and we were unable to get the newsletters out to inform the members of the elec­tions," said former co-President, Louisa DeMello. 
As a result of the delay in the elec­tions, Monsour Eid, who was run­ning unopposed with his co-President Naomi Durham, faced opposition from Jack Meyers, an 
American,  and  his  running-mate  
Margarita Villalon.  
Although  Meyers  and  Villalon  

won, several members ofthe ISO are demanding a nullification because of what they consider to be an "invalid election." 
"The ISO is irrevocably split, and we will remain disunited until this is resolved," said Executive Board member Karen Joseph. 
Joseph said a discrepancy about the voting eligibility of members prevented a large portion ofiSO stu­dents from voting in the election and resulted in only 30 out of 387 members voting. This discrepancy was the result of a recent amend­ment to the ISO's constitution which states that only active mem­bers · defined by the constitution as one who attends at least 50 percent of the organizational meetings -may vote in the elections. 
It was not explained to members which meetings were considered organizational meetings, Araujo said. 
DeMello said it was difficult to keep good attendance records be­cause members often came late to meetings and failed to sign atten­dance sheets. 
This year, ISO member Maher Mouasher virtually revised and rewrote the constitution to include these rules, DeMello said. "He's ( Mouasher) a good friend of mine," she added. 
ISO members Ricardo Araujo, Ric­hard Stickney and Andrew Gan said it was unethical for Mouasher to revise the constitution without in­put from other members, especially since Mouasher was a close friend of Griffin and DeMello. 
This revised constitution "was missing for three to four days," said Durham, so students were not able to review the new election procedures. 
Griffin was unavailable for com­ment. 
Speaking on Griffin's behalf, DeMello said the constitution was missing, but the members already had the opportunity to review it, and it did resurface a few days after the elections. 
The ISO constitution states an election committee is to be formed to handle the elections. Griffin and DeMello, however, not only handled the elections but counted the votes as well. DeMello said she was not aware an election committee was supposed to be formed. 
Newsletters informing members of the elections were only sent out to a few members, and a large percentage of ISO members either did not receive newsletters or received them the day after the elec­tions, according to Stickney, an 
see ISO, page 5 

Minority enrollment percentages fluctuate at ND, SMC 
Editor's Note: This is the first part of a three article series detailing the problems and situations minori~y students face on the NDISMC campuses. Today's article focuses on en· rollment procedures of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
By MARK DILLON 
SeniorStaffReporter 
Among five major universities 
studied, the Notre Dame/Saint 
Mary's community had the 
lowest percentage ofAsian, Black 
and Hispanic students enrolled. 
The universities included in 
the study were Georgetown, 
Marquette, Princeton, UCLA, and 
University of Michigan. 
At Notre Dame, 10 percent of 
the students are mmwnttes, 
while at Saint Mary's, minorities 
make up only 3.2 percent of the 
student body. 
In contrast, Georgetown has a minority enrollment of 16 per­cent and UCLA has a 65 percent enrollment of minorities. 
Notre Dame Director of Admissions Kevin Rooney of­fered several reasons for Notre Dame's comparitively low percentages. 
"It's a vicious cycle, the fewer minorities enrolled the fewer apply," said Rooney. 
He added. "The main reason minorities are not applying is location. All the schools studied have large metropolitan areas ­Marquette has Milwaukee, Geor­getown has Washington,D.C., Michigan has the Detroit area, etc. The Ivy League school is one of the most attractive in the na­tion and obviously interests the cream of the crop. 
"Because of the urban areas these universities have better contact and greater draw. Plus, minorities prefer urban environ­ments." 
Rooney's point is ~llustrated by the fact that UCLA in metropolitan Los Angeles has a minority enrollment of 65 per­cent. 
Mary Ann Rowan, director of 
Minority Student Series 

admissions at Saint Mary's said,"The tradition of both schools as predominantly Irish Catholic institutions could also be a factor." 
Both admissions directors realize the need for greater minority enrollment and are taking steps to improve the situa· tion. 
Rooney said."We are sensitive to the need for an increase in minority enrollment. In order to satisfy this need we are working for a sizable increase in minority applications. The more students we have in the admissions process the better off we will be in terms of effecting an increase in enrollment." 
In order to accomplish this, several programs have been or will be implemented. "Presently, we recruit by mail the top 7000 to 9000 minority students as recognized by the College Boards," Rooney said. These commended minorities are sent Notre Dame literature and are encouraged to apply. 
Future programs will include current minority students and alumni. Rooney said,"! want to increase minority student and alumni involvement to help build up the applicant pool. I want to write letters to graduates and stu­dents with an application enclosed to be given to a minority candidate they feel is qualified." 
The minority recruitment program, which began in 1971, has been steadily gaining success. Rooney said, "In the 1960's there were almost no blacks. In 1982 we set a record for Blacks en­rolled in the freshman class. So there is a steady improvement." 
Saint Mary's has also become more aggressive in confronting the minority admissions problem. Rowan said,"We have initiated a program and taken ag­gressive steps to recruit minorities. It has become a definite part of our admissions plans." 
Saint Mary's has a recruiting ef­fort similar to Notre Dame's in which commended minorities are sent letters and Saint Mary's vieWbooks in order to stimulate interest. Follow up phone calls 
see MINORITY, page 4 


,....--·...-------------------------.------------~------~-------------------­
The Observer Tuesday,.April 30, 1985 -page 2 













it; the last thing I want is a 
drives on the quads? ban on all quad sports. Are they trying to inflictJuniors ofall majors arc requested to hand in the 
However, baseballs are pain on innocent peopleoriginal and one copy of their Profile Form to the Career and Place­
hard to avoid ·and, even who are simply walking to ment Services office (lower level, Memorial Library) by Friday, May 
more, they hurt! Thanks, but their next class? Have they3. -The Obsen1er I don't need people to inflict always been masochists? 
pain when I neither want If you must fulfill your nor expect it. Regular urge to JOifi the "big baseballs in the air are as leagues" and play with a
The jazz group Shadowfax will be performing 
dangerous as boomerangs, regular baseball, please staytonight at i in Washington Hall. The concert is sponsored by the 
golf balls and croquet balls away from the quads. Notre Student Activities Board. Tickets arc on sale now at the Rock DuLac in flight, when the quads are Dame must have an unused record store in LaFortune Student Center. Admission will be S8.50.­
full ofpeople. field you can use some­
The Obsen•er 
This "hard-hitting" situation is more serious than where.lfyou decide not to take my advice, just remem­merely getting grazed by a stray ball. The situation can ber one thing: 'Ibe next time you are walking along one be downright dangerous. Maybe I am sounding like of the quads, the sound you do not hear could be a someone's overprotective mother, but someone can baseball coming right at your head.
Transfer Orientation Committee 1985-86 will 
get seriously hurt out there. 

hold a mandatory meeting tonight at 7 in the New Orleans room, 
The character of Coach on the "Cheers" sit-com al­LaFortune. for all those interested in being ort the committee. 
ways said getting hit by pitches left him a few cards 
The Observer publishes its official opinion

Present committee members must attend. -The Observer 
short of a full deck. He may have gotten hit by one too 
in the form of an unsigned, large-print, wide­
many pitches, but even one blow to the head of an in­
column article on the Viewpoint page. These
nocent bystander is one too many here. Ifthis tragic accident should ever transpire, there will 
columns represent the opinion of a majority yearbooks will be distributed today and the rest of this 
be no crowd to cheer on this type of "hit." Three balls of The Observer editorial board. All other week on the east side ofStepan Center from 12:30-4:30. Seniors pick 
have whizzed by me in the last two weeks, and I don't columns, on the Viewpoint page or ot­
up books today, juniors tomorrow, sophomores on Thursday and like the fact that there might be one more out there herwise, are the views of their authors and do
freshmen on Friday. Yearbooks arc free. Students must show 1.0., 
with my name on it. 

not necessarily reflect the views of theand arc encouraged to bring as many I.D.s as possible to avoid long 
I thought I might just be overreacting or perhaps
lines. In case of rain, distribution will take place inside Stepan 
editorial board or The Observer staff. Center.-The Observer 
even be harboring a long, festering jealousy of baseball players. (It is tough to admit, but I was never in Little League.) After seeing the quad players, however, I 
AMERICAN 
Help Prevent Birth Defects­
An Tostal Kissers who have not turned in their con­

CANCER

tracts must turn them in at the An Tostal office from 4:30-5:30 p.m. 
The Nation's Number One
SOCIETYQI

today. This is the last day contracts will be accepted. The office is 
Child Health Problem. 
located on the second floor of LaFortune.-The Observer 
FREE Catalog/Trip 





""'M_Supp_Ofch of Dimes
Rasta week will continue today with a movie night at 
Camping in West US

Chautauqua. Three documentaries on African culture and hunger 
~ BIRTH DEFECTS FOUNDATION___
Free trip for coordinator

will be shown, beginning at 8. Admittance is free. -The Observer 
Explon\rnerte~ 2000 Center N1359C Berkeley, CA 94704 (415) 540-5771 

Weather 

Notre Dame/Saint Marys Theatre presents 
Perfect...almost. Mostly sunny 
Daria Fa's 

and warm today with highs in the mid to upper 70s. A 30 percent chance of showers tonight with lows near 50. Highs near 70 tomorrow with a 50 percent chance of rain. 

We Won't Pay! We Won't Pay!

Design Editor................................. Troy Illig Design Asststwlt........jane Anne Ricdford Layout Staff....................... Melissa Warnke Alice: Krueger 
A contemporary Italian comedy 
1:vpese/lers .................... Tracy Bringardner 
The Observer 
Mary Ellen Harrington 

Directed by Mark Pilkinton 
News Editor .............................Scott Bearby 1be Obeervn (USPS ~99 2·1000) is Copy Editor ................................ Miriam Hill publishc:d Monday through Friday and .\ports Copy Editor ................. Marty Burn• 
May 3,4,16,17 8=00pm
on home football Saturdays, except Vleupoint Copy Editor......... Cindy Boyle during exam and vacation periods. Tb~ Vleupolnt Layout............ Melissa Warnke ~is published by the: students of Features Copy Editor............ Teresa Keefe 
and May 52:3o matinee . 
the: llnl~rsity of Notre Dam<: and Saint Features Layout ............. Catherine Coffey Mary's CoUefiC'. Subscriptions may be NO Day Editor........................ Aimee Storin purehurd for 130 per year ( J20 per se. SMC Day Editor............................. F.d Nolan 
Seats$3.00 O'Laughlin Auditorium
mester) by writing Tb~ Obeervu. P.O. Ad Design .................. Anne Marie Furlcigh Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 46~~6. Lisa Dickinson 1be ~ is a member of 1be Pbotograpber ............... Chaitanya Panchal 
Please call 284-4626 for reservation!. 
~ Pre•. All reproduction Typist ................................... Gina Farabaugh 
and information 
rights are reservtd. 



In Brief 

Former head ofCampus Ministryat Saint 
Mary's, Sister Katherine Reichert died last Tuesday. Reichert had been involved with the Saint Mary's community since her college days. She graduated from Saint Mary's in 1960, and returned to the College for post-graduate studies in theology, receiving her master's degree in 1966. Reichert was the coordinator of Campus Ministry from 1972 until 1973 and from 1974 until 1979. From 1974 to 1975, she was the College's vocation director. In 1979, Reichert became an administrator for the Midwestern region ofthe Holy Cross Sisters. 
-The Observer 

A threatening crowd of approximately 100 Notre 
Dame students surrounded a police officer called to a loud party 
early Sunday. The officer was hit by a beer can and punched in the 
face and chest, police said. Cpl. Gary Reynolds, 32, was treated for 
bruises and released, police said. Reynolds said he was attempting to 
arrest Patrick Giblin, who gave a Notre Dame address, when he was 
assaulted by Christopher Walton of Southfield, Mich. Giblin was ar­
rested on charges ofpossessing a false identification card and beinga 
minor in possession ofalcohol and resisting arrest, police said. Wal­
ton was arrested on charges of battery and resisting law enforce­
ment, police said. Both were later released. -AP 
Of Interest 

Hard hitting baseballs contribute to a dangerous walk on the quad 
The windup -the pitch -the ball ripping off a bat -a cry of pain from down the quad. Yes, another un­suspecting victim has been hit by a baseball. 
No longer do we have to deal with snowballs, hailstones, or other white, round objects Mother Nature throw our way. Man has created the ultimate weapon for us to dodge as we walk around campus min­ding our own business -he has created the baseball. 
They are harmless in an open field or at a major· league park, but on the quads they have the ability to cause great pain to unsuspecting victims. 
It is sort oflike being in London during the Blitzkrieg, and almost as dangerous. 
Please keep in mind I have nothing against baseball as a sport. This, after all, would be un-American. I have always loved apple pie, ourfamily owns a Chevrolet and I have remained a Cubs and White Sox fan; this is not the statement of a Communist. My problem lies with some people here who insist upon using regular baseballs on the quad and not with the 
Scott Bearby 
Assistant News Editor 
realize I don't have a lot to be jealous of. Besides, people with legendary Little League careers agree with me. 
Frankly, it is scary to see that a lot of people playing with hardballs can barely control them. The last thing they have to worry about is being drafted by the major league. Although there may be a few Babe Ruth types on the quad, most are not. 
There are just too many people on the quads for anyone to use a hardball safely. Perhaps the real problem is the lack ofcommon sense some people have when 
national pastime itself. 
I can usually avoid foot­balls, frisbees, tennis balls and assorted other playth­ings. Even if it is impossible to avoid getting hit by one of these objects, I can tolerate using regular baseballs. I can handle playing catch (as long as the line of fire does not cross a sidewalk) or hit­ting groundballs. But what could possibly possess people to hit pop flies or line 

~ ~--~---­
The Observer Tuesday, April 30, 1985 -page 3 


Neal unveils plans for remodeling 
Darby's to cease as 
By FRANK LIPO to Nieuwland and is scheduled for dent Lounge, Neal said, "I'm not sure CopyCbtef completion in spring 1986. Upon its if there will be a lounge next year." 

late-night study outlet 
completion, the activity of She said she will talk to Brother 
"Under construction" will be the key phrase at LaFortune Student Center until fall 1986. The long­anticipated renovations are scheduled to begin this summer. 
joni Neal, director of student ac­tivities, said the construction tentatively will begin at the end of june or the beginning ofjuly. 
Don Dedrick, director of the physical plant, and Chris Nye ofCole and Associates (the architecture firm for the renovations) are cur­rently caking bids from contractors on the construction, said Neal. 
Because the renovation will not be completed for more than a year, temporary locations and incon­venience will be part of the renova­tion, said Neal. "It's like a chain reaction. You do one thing (renovations) and you have to do five," said Neal. 
"Everyone will have to be 
patient," said Neal. "A lot of people 
are going to be inconvenienced next 
year. That's a fact. The end result will 
be worth the inconvenience," she 
added. 
"I think students will be surprised. 
A lot of students look at the renova­
tion as a haphazard measure. It is 
not. A lot of thought went into the 
plans, by administrators and ar­
chitects," Neal said. It will be a "very 
usable student activities center," she 
added. 
A new addition will be con­
structed on the east side of 
LaFortune facing Nieuwland Science 
Hall. A basement will be excavated 
and the three floors of the addition 
will be "framed-up" this summer, 
said j'.jeaJ. Dry wall, a floor surface, 
plumbing and the electrical units 
will be added upon completion of 
the roof and walls. 
The addition will extend almost LaFortune will shift to this addition and the main building then will be renovated, tentatively in spring 1986. 
The basement of LaFortune also will be the scene of much change over the summer, said Neal. The west side of the basement will be remodeled during the summer and is scheduled for completion by fall. 
The east side of the basement will be closed for remodeling, said Neal. 
"We're trying to figure out if there's a place to relocate a portion of the (pool) tables," said Neal. 
"It (the basement) will not be as dark and poorly lit," said Neal. A lounge/study area will be in the center ofthe west side. The coffered ceiling will have inset track lighting and booths will encircle the lounge/study area, said Neal. 
A new staircase will be installed in the center of the basement which will connect the bricked atrium on the first floor (outside the Little Theater) to the basement. A match­ing brick atrium will be built in the basement directly under the first floor brick atrium. 
Space for a "business district" also will be built on the west side of the basement. 
The General Microcomputer store will stay in its current location next year. Irish Gardens will move from the south alcove to the north alcove of the west part of the base­ment. First Source Travel will move from its current location in Badin Hall to the south alcove of the west part of the basement. 
The Office of International Stu­dent Affairs will move from its present location to the space now occupied by the Student Saver general store. 
Concerning the International Stu-George Schmitz, director of the Office of International Student Af­fairs, before any decision is made. 
Space also is planned for the Stu­dent Activities Board record store and what is tentatively called a "ticket office," on the west side of the basement. 
The present Studio J of the Nazz will house the University Hairstylists, currently located in Badin Hall. But University Hairstylists will not open until the middle of the fall semester, said Neal. 
Rob Hoover, SAB business manager, said the Student Saver will be located somewhere in the base­ment and The Underground t-shirt shop will remain in its current loca­tion. 
A copy machine room with six to eight machines and a small commer­cial space for a barbershop also will be on the west side. 
Some first floor renovations might occur during the summer, said Neal. These first floor renovations are not as definite as the basement renova­tions or the east side addition. 
Neal said one large meeting room or two smaller meeting rooms will eventually be built, adjacent to the current location of the SAB's Rock du Lac record store. "LaFortune is very tight on meeting rooms. It would be great to have that (meeting rooms) completed by next fall," said Neal. 
The small lounge to the west of the Huddle and to the north of the bricked atrium is scheduled for redecoration. "They want a different decor in there," she said. Glass booths, better lighting and plants are tentatively scheduled for the room. 
The Huddle's renovations still are being planned. 

SCHOLASTIC 
1985 1986 


WRITERS INFORMATION NIGHT WEDNESDAY, MAY 1, 7 o'CLOCK LAFORTUNE LITTLE THEATRE 
By FRANK LIPO 
CopyCbtef 
Darby's Place, the Student Ac­tivities Board business located in the basement of LaFortune, will sell its last snack to the late-night crowd this semester. 
The closing is the decision of the SAB, but it is a reaction to an administration decision to dis­courage late-night study in LaFortune in the future, accord­ing to SAB Manager Lee Brous­sard. 
"They (the administration) want to deemphasize the study­ing atmosphere (in the basement of LaFortune)," said Broussard. He said the renovations in the basement are geared toward such a deemphasis. 
"Darby's right now caters to 
those people who study down 
there. They don't cater to people 
in the dorms, because those 
people have foodsales," Brous­
sard said. "There's really no 
reason to have Darby's ifstudents 
aren't studying in the basement 
(of LaFortune), " he said. 
"We haven't even discussed 
hours in the new building," said 
Director of Student Activities 
joni Neal. "I know that no ad­
mmistrator ever told Rob 
(Hoover, SAB business manager) 
and Lee (Broussard) that you 
have to close Darby's," said Neal. 
Neal said the "business dis­
trict" section of the remodeled 
basement most likely will be 
closed earlier in the evening. 
This will stop students from late­
night study in LaFortune's base­
ment, according to Neal. 
Although Neal has not 
examined next year's hours in 
T~F.--,r.tllnt" in detail, she said, 
"LaFortune is not going to be the late-night hangout." She an­ticipated LaFortune would be closed at approximately 2 or 3 a.m. 
"I basically feel that there should be a late-night study area on campus," said Broussard. He said the South Dining Hall might be a suitable spot for late-night study, but said part of the Memorial Library perhaps could be opened to accommodate the late-night study crowd. "It's up to the administration to do someth­ing like that," Broussard said. 
"Next year people aren't going to have anywhere to go (late at night)," said former Darby's manager Sue Reilly. "There are a lot ofpeople who come here (to Darby's) regularly," she said. 
Neal said the current location of Darby's will be incorporated into a "sweet shop" in the renovated basement of LaFortune. The shop will be modeled on an old-fashioned candy store and will sell such items as homemade cookies, popcorn, and homemade sodas, said Neal. It will be operated by University Food Services. 
"We questioned as to whether the SAB had a role in running the candy shop (sweet shop). They were very adamant against that," said Broussard. Instead, Brous­sard said, student employees tentatively will submanage such a sweet shop. 
University Food Services will run the sweet shop "mainly be­cause something like that can~t operate at a loss," said Neal. "They do want to hire student employees to work all the hours," she said. 
Alumni cited for efforts 
Notre Dame alumni were citedfor  Boeing Co., Benton, Wash., joseph  
their contributions to the engineer- Eger, vice president of the Polyet­ 
ing profession last Thursday during  hylene  Division  of  the  Exxon  
the University's College ofEngineer- Chemical Co., Darien., Conn., and  
ing  Honor  Awards  Ceremony.  Robert L. Karlsberger, president of  
Recipients ofthe Honor Award were  
Frank Callahan, president and chief  Karlsberger  and  Associates,  Inc.,  
executive  officer  of Greiner  En- Columnbus, Ohio. Terrence Akai, as­ 
gineering, Inc., Irving, Texas, Ben­ sistant professor of aerospace and  
jamin Casgrove, vice president of  mechanical  engineering,  received  
the  Engineering  Division  of  the  the Outstanding Teacher Award.  

After JODI" lastexam, what tough questions will you still befacing? 

Wdon't have your answers. But we'll listen to your questions, 
share some of our own about who we want to be<:ome and where we want to journey. For anyone who has considered the path of priesthood, the Holy Cross Fathers· One· Year Candidate Program provides an opportunity to ask and explore the possibilities in community. 
Contac:t: Rev. Andre Leveille, C.S.C. Vocation Director 
Box 541 Notre Dame. 1N 46556 (219) 283~6385 

The Observer Tuesday, April30, 1985-page 4 
Donnelly designated spirituality co-director 
By THERESA GUARINO 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor 
"We were enormously impressed by her energy and background," said Professor Keith Egan on the recent appointment of Professor Doris Donnelly as co-director of Saint Mary's Center for Spirituality. 
Donnelly was the choice of a search committee formed in the fall to request and advertise for nomina­tions for the position. She will share the position of co-dire<.·tor with Egan, foundt•r of the center. 
The Center for Spirituality was in­auguratt·d last month with a lecture by tht·ologian Monika Hellwig. 
Donnelly is currently coordinator of the maMer's program in Christian education for Catholic students at Princeton Theological Seminary. She is also an associate professor at St.John's University, Jamaica, N.Y. 
Egan said the search for the new co-director began last June. "I spent the summer looking for candidates and requesting nominations," he said. "Then in the fall we established a search committee which ad­vertised nationally." 
"The committee selected three nominees who came to campus for interviews," he continued. "A large number of students, faculty, staff, 
and local alumnae  were  involved,  
and  we  went  through  all  their  
evaluations."  

As co-directors, Egan and Don­nelly will share the direction of the center, assembling a national and lo­cal board of advisors, in addition to choosing lecturers, and directing the activities of the center. 
Next fall, Donnelly will teach a course on marriage and sexuality, and a lunchtime brown bag 
Minority 
continuedfrom page I 
and letters arc also used. 
Saint Mary's also divides the country into regions. Within each region, the assigned admissions counselor targets certain high schools with high minority con­centrations. Recruitment visits by the counselor arc then made. 
Because Saint Mary's has trouble attracting minorities because of their lack of enrolled minorities, Saint Mary's has engaged in "a slow process to encourage minorities to apply," Rowan said. 
"We are trying to become more 
visiblt: to minorities by establishing 
a network of communication 
through local visits, college fairs, 
and mailings in order to make Saint 
Mary's more recognizable and entic­
ing to minority students," Rowan ex­
plained. 
In attempting to raise the percentage of minority students, both Rowan s and Rooney stressed admissions standards would not be lowered. Although SAT scores for minorities at both schools are lower than those of non-minorities, high school achievment and all other criteria are the same. 
The reason for the allowance in SAT scores was explained by Gor­don Chavis, regional director of admissions at Georgetown, which follows a policy similar to Notre Dame's. 
Chavis said,"In looking at SAT scores of minority students, espe­cially the verbal test, one must take into account the cultural bias of the test. If high school achievement is high and SATs are low it is usually indicative ofa cultural bias. 
Although both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are taking aggressive steps to increase minority enroll­ment, another hurdle has recently been placed in the way. 
"Over the past three years there has been a decline in enrollment of min•>rities which can be traced to Reagan financial aid cutbacks," said spirituality seminar to faculty and staff at the College. 

Donnelly's background includes publications dealing with forgive­ness. redemption. and reconcilia­tion, topics the Center for Spiritually will cover. Her book, "Learning to Forgive," was first published in 1979, and is in its fourth printing. 
She has written numerous articles about the issues of ordination for women, prayer and solitude. 
Donnelly attended Manhattan­ville College and the University of Southern California, and received a 
doctorate  in  theology  from  
Claremont  Graduate  School  of  
lbeology.  

'Ibe Center fix Spirituality is in its first year at Saint Mary's, and Egan hopes to make its programs, lectures and forums well-known to College alumnae across the country. 
"The center is Saint Mary's, and we hope to tap the facilities and resources ofSaint Mary's," he said. 
Egan believes Donnelly will be a great asset to the Center for Spirituality. "We have already begun to get congratulations of people around the country on her appoint­ment as co-director," he said. "She bring.., energy, and a good theologi­cal background to the center." 
The Center for Spirituality will conduct its first symposium for Col­lege alumnae and visitors in June. Called "Women in the Church," it will be directed by British theologian Rosemary Haughton. 
Other center activities for the summer include the study of the writings of Teresa of Avila and john of the Cross during a Carmelite Ex­perience from June 23 to July 5 on the College campus. 
Mary Fraleigh, assistant director of educational opportunity at Mar­quette University. Rooney said,"There has been a psychologi­cal effect caused by Reagan cut­backs. Minorities are worried there is no money and are looking at less expensive schools. This is illustrated by the booming minority enroll­ment of California state schools which offer a sound education at relatively low cost." 
······································~········· 
!JOHN MARSHALL -~ ! 
• lAW SCHOOL '·.-t····. •
: ';_.{[~~~\1 : 
e 1393 Peachtree St. NE, Atlanta, GA 30309 '·v·~· I ~ APPLICATIONS TAKEN NOW ...·-~_·'i
fl~ 
~ 1

:February, June, September Admissions : : Day or Evening Classes ;
_,_...

. .
__, 

• John Marshall Law School admits without regard ; : to national or ethnic origin ; 
! APPROVED FOR VETERANS : : Graduationfrom John Marshall meets the : • requirementsfor admission to the Bar • : Examination in Georgia and Indiana ONLY : : (404)872-3593 : 

~----~-----------------~-.-
••~8-i~¥-~------~~---.-.-.-.-.-.---.-.-.-~------, 
S25.00 IO SJ50.00 OFF$ava dollar$ 
Tht• {)h~t.·rn::r/Nic.:hola!> (,nffin
Disabled trailer 

Parking for handicapped people has become handicapped spaces across from the Enginet>ring more difficult nou• that a traih>rhas beenparked in Building 
UNICEF seeks campus chairman 
By MICHELE MARCHAND 
StuffReporter 
Picking up on on the tl1eme of "We are the world, we are the children," the U.S. Committee for UNICEF recently mounted a press campaign to encourage students to join in the fight against hunger. 
The committee is searching for applicants to the Campus Ambas­sador Program for 1985-1986. lbe position of campus ambassador will involve working with several groups to spread awareness of social problems in developing countries among college students. 
The actions of the U.S. committee are part of a larger UNICEF national student leadership program designed to raise money on college campuses for children in under­developed nations. 
To qualify for the position of campus ambassador, students must be committed to the cause of hel­ping the world's children and be wil~ ling to work with a number of groups. According to Stephen Kin­naird, chairman of the UNICEF Campus Action Program, an ambas­sador should be able to "place a call to the movers and shakers among 

students and administrators in order 
to start a cascade ofactivity." 
To apply for the position of Campus Ambassador for UNICEF, send a resume and a brief cover let­ter stating interest or requests for in­formation to: Campus Ambassador Program; U. S. Committee for UNI­CEF; 331 East 38th Street; New York, 
NY 10016. 
Once selected, the ambassador will be responsible for spreading ideas by drawing on whatever resources available to create aware· ness and support for UNICEF. 
The chosen student will act as liaison between established groups on campus in order to involve as many students as possible in the fundraising efforts. 
At the University of Arizona, for example, religious groups have worked with the campus ambas­sador. At many schools, the student government has been involved. 
"There are a myriad of forms the program takes on campus," said Kin· naird. Any kind of fundraiser can be organized, and each school may choose where to send the money it raises. 
Funds may be given either to the General Fund of the U.S. Committee 
Notre Dame Avenue Apartments 
NOWRENTINGFORFALL 
Completely furnished, balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES 
(good dealsfor SummerSealon) 
Ofllce at 820 ND Ave 
or caD 
open Mon-Fri3-6pm 
234-6647
Sat 11-3pm 
On any Rent-it-Hera, Leave-it-There Ryder One Way Truck Rental 
Offer valid only with this coupon. Not valid with other specials.
RYDER 

SOUTH BEND rents trucks to move it yourself LOCATIONS 1914 Miami St.
Ryder Truck Rental-One-Way 

2715 North Bendix Dr. 289-6721 AMX 277-3550 OR 2627 South Main St.

""'"'~ 

232-6729 
....................f'~~-B~&a&a&MM:o~a~~--~ 

for UNICEF or to a specific cause such as the emergency relief fund for Ethiopia. 'Ibere is also an Adopt­A-Project Program whereby money is specifically designated for a needy area in countries such as Ethiopia and Kenya. 
"Participating students arc hel­ping the world's children as well as developing marketable proof of their leadership, managerial and communications skills within a na­tional program," said P. Bertrand Phillips, acting president of the U.S. committee. 
Although the Campus Ambas­sador Program is only in its first year. over 60 colleges are participating. Kinnaird said he is optimistic that the number "will double or triple in about a month" as a result ofthe new press release. 
In future years, there will be leadership conferences, although in the first year there were problems with funding because all the money raised on campuses was sent to relieve the famine in Africa. 
Next year, there will be regional conferences as part of a national program and support system for stu­dents working for UNICEF. There is also a national newsletter. 

SEE THIS MAP FOR YOUR SAVINGS 
RENT FROM SOUTH BEND TO ANY OF THESE AREAS AND SAVE. 
TriMork ol Northern lndlono 219-294-7239 6002-6-5710
L 
----------~------------------------------------------------~ 

----------------------~,-----------------------------------------------· 
The Observer Tuesday, April30, 1985-page 5 
Vatican visiting 
Charles and Diana, the prince and princess of terday. The pontiffgranted the royal couple a spe­Wales poseforpictures with Popejohn Paul II yes-cial audience during their visit to the Vatican. 
Senior month offers a 'run' of fun activities 
By MAURA MANDYCK 
SeniorStaffReporter 
Senior Month 1985 is off and run­ning with a 5K run which is scheduled to take place at 3:30 this afternoon. 
This year's Senior Month includes such activities as quarter beers at Senior Bar, a visit to the Grotto and Sacred Heart, a trip to Warren Dunes, a trip to Chicago, a luau and a Kentucky Derby Watching Party. 
Senior Month, which officially began with a Senior/Alumni Picnic last Saturday, will culminate in a traditional graduation dinner Satur­day, May 18. 
Dean Christy, senior class presi­dent, appointed the chairpersons for the Senior Month activities. They are Anne Bowler, Jane Ellen DeRose, Brian Potasiewicz, and Michael Schmutz. The committee has published a booklet outlining the events. It includes: •a Chicago Rush Street Trip on which persons who signed up before April 12 will be provided with transportation to Rush Street in Chicago on Wednes­day, May 1. •a Kentucky Derby Watching Party to include mint juleps and "Derby spirit." •a Great America Trip to the amusementpark north of Chicago May 5. •a Golf Tourney followed by lunch at Senior Bar Tuesday, May 7. •a "Last Trot to the Grotto and Sacred Heart" which includes readings and songs and a candlelight procession Tuesday, May 14. 
The week turns traditional with a Senior Class Cocktail Reception for students and their parents Friday, May 17, and a Baccalaureate Mass celebrated by Father Theodore Hes­burgh, University president, Satur­day, May 18. 
DeRose said Senior Month is an opportunity to "still get to meet ot­her seniors and really enjoy the last month ofsenior year. It's still impor­tant to meet the seniors; you never knowwhen you'll meet them again." 
Although the Certified Public Ac­countant Test is scheduled for May 8,9,and 10, DeRose said, "We en­courage them (those taking the test) to take a little break." Seniors are also encouraged to pick up Senior Month Booklets at the Student Ac­tivities Office, particularly off­campus students. 

Statistical and Reporting Software for IBM PC/XT and AT* 
SPSS/PC is the most comprehensive statistical 

package available for performing simple or complex 
tasks, regardless of data size. It maintains feature 
and language compatibility with mainframe SPSS~ 
while optimizing for the PC environment. 

Designed to maximize your productivity, SPSS/PC offers three-letter truncation of commands; the abilitv to batch process commands; save and enter commands in groups; receive on-line help; redirect input and output to screen, disk and/or printers and more. 
Statistics range from simple descriptive to complex 
multivariate, including Multiple Regression, ANOVA, 
Factor and Cluster analysis. Loglinear and nonpara­
metric procedures are also included. 

Simple facilities allow transfer of files between SPSS/PC and programs like Lotus 1-2-3, dBase II and SAS. A complete Report Writer, piO'ding facilities and communications program for mainframes round out a fully integrated product. 
For more information, contact our Marketing Department at: 
SPSS Inc., 444 N. Michigan Avenue, Chicago, IL 60611. 312/329-3500. 

~n Europe: SPSS Benelux B.V., P.O. Box 115, 4200 AC Gorinchem, The Netherlands. Phone: +31183036711. TWX: 21019. VISA, MasterCard and American Express accepted. 
S'55ii1C. PRODUCTIVITY RAISED TO THE HIGHEST POWER~ 
'SPSS/PC runs on the IBM PC/XT with 320K memory and a hard disk, and IBM PC/AT with hard disk. An 8087 co-processor is recommended. Contact SPSS Inc. for other compatible compulefS. IBM PC/XT and PC/AT are trademarks ollntemational Business Machines Corporatio!l. dBase II is a trademark ol Ashton-Tate. 1-2-3 is a trademark ol Lotus Oellelopment Cotporation. SAS is a registemd trademar1< o1 SAS Institute, Inc. SPSS and SPSS/PC are tradernarl<s of SPSS Inc. for its proprietary oomputer software. 
•c, Copyright 1985, SPSS Inc. 
ISO 
continuedfrom page I 
American affiliated member who was denied the right to vote because he was not considered an active member as determined by Griffin and DeMello. 
Although a Jist of active members was available at the time of the elec­tions, Eid said portions of this list were lost, which excluded several members from voting. 
DeMello refuted Eid's allegations saying, "This is just not true." 
"The whole thing was meddled with," said Eid, "All we want is a nul­lification of the election. Because of the rampant corruption, Naomi and I aren't even interested in running again. We just want to see democracy served." 
Eid and Durham have collected over I00 signatures for a petition to nullify the results ofthe election and to create a new ISO ifnecessary. 
DeMello responded to Eid's ac­tions by stating, "Mansour is creat­ing problems for the new officers, and I can't understand why he is making such a big deal out of this." 
"The invalidity of the elections cannot be contested. This whole thing is indicative of a dictatorship. We Jive in a democratic society especially here in the United States. I don't think that it (the election) was too democratic," Eid said. 
Joseph responded to the election ofAmericanJack Meyers to the posi­tion of president by saying, "Although the constitution does not directly state that the office ofpresi­dent and co-president is to be held by an international student, the elec­tion of Meyers would be analogous to the election of a white student as president of the Black Cultural Arts Council." 
Senate 
continuedfrom page 1 
Domagalski asked the senate whether there was a role for a campus radio station. 
Healy responded, "It's definitely needed. Most other college campuses have them. It is something very lacking at Notre Dame." 
Daniel had asked Domagalski to request student government's help in convincing the administration to spend $1700 for a study to determine what should be done to improve the quality of WVFI. Domagalski said Daniels told him it will become increasingly difficult to continue if action is not taken by next year. 
.-------------------~--~----..~----------------------------------------------------------------------------~--------------· 
~i~~~_<>__i_ll___t__________________
T_ue-sd-ay,-Ap-ri-13-0,_19-85--p-ag-e6 
Campuses must act on the apartheid problem 
The issue of American investments in South Africa is coming more into focus for the 
Notre Dame community. 

The Anti-Apartheid League, a recently formed campus group dedicated to doing some­
thing about apartheid through the Notre Dame community, has gathered much support 
from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students and faculty. The well-attended forum two 
weeks ago was a promising sign ofconstructive activism by this ambitious group. 
Student Body President Bill Healy recently created a cabinet position to investigate University business practices. His choice for that position, junior John Dettling, im­mediately established a subcommittee to look into Notre Dame's investments in American companies in South Africa. This subcommittee is objectively gathering in­formation regarding these investments and plans to discuss them with the Notre Dame Board ofTrustees when they meet later this week. 
While students at other colleges and universities are more visible in their protests 
against apartheid and institutional investments in South Africa, it is heartening to know 
that members of the Notre Dame community at least are thinking about the problem. 
But the whole community has not demonstrated commitment to the issue. One group 
in particular has been noticeably missing from the discussions and dissections of the 
South African problem. That group is the Notre Dame administration. 
Notre Dame has been weak and ambiguous on this issue. This was dramatically il­
lustrated by University investment officer Father Richard Zang's refusal to attend a public 
discussion two weeks ago of the University's investment policy on the grounds that the 
policy already has been made well-known. 
The issue of University investments in American companies in South Africa is too im­
portant to be dismissed in such a manner by the administration. No matter how much the 
administration would like the problem to disappear, it will not. Zang's refusal to discuss 
the policy only underlines the administration's inability to deal with an issue as entan­
gling as apartheid. 

Notre Dame is one of the foremost religiously affiliated universities in the country. Therefore, it has a responsibility to be a living example for institutions and individuals. It is time for the University to stop worrying about dollars and cents and to look sincerely at the real issue ofapartheid, and at what Notre Dame can do about it. 
It is not necessary for the University to take any radical action to affect the policies of other institutions. Rather, it has only to approach the situation maturely and responsibly. In doing this, Notre Dame can live up to its Christian commitment to morality and com­passion for humanity. 
This non-radical reform can be accomplished by taking a number of effective and necessary steps. First, the University must make public all ofits investments in American companies in South Africa. If Notre Dame truly has nothing to hide, it should be willing to submit its investments to public scrutiny. Additionally, the administration must divulge the names of the companies from which it has already divested. Previously, the ad­ministration has refused to name these companies because the administration claimed it would embarrass these companies unnecessarily. These companies should be embar­rassed if they are contributing to the apartheid policiesofthe South Africangovernment. 
Second, the University must update its 1978 investments policy to incorporate the new and improved Sullivan Principles as Rev. Leon Sullivan, the author ofthe principles, recommended when he spoke on campus last week. The new Sullivan principles deal with the fundamental problems ofpolitical change outside the work place, not simply the working conditions ofblacks in South Africa. 
Third, the University must make a total commitment to this revised policy. It should review the policy on a predetermined timetable. The current policy is ambiguous on this point and must be made more concrete. And to be effective, the policy must be followed stringently. Companies that refuse to adhere to the revised Sullivan Principles or adhere to the principles haphazardly or without complete commitment must be made the object ofa complete divestment campaign by the University. 
The administration of Saint Mary's College does not need to improve its policy for investment in American companies in South Africa. It is still in the process ofcreating its policy. Jason Undower, controller and business manager for the College, said he is not sure if Saint Mary's has any such investments. 
For all the Saint Mary's administration knows, it could be profiting from investments in companies that exploit and oppress black workers. Or maybe it isn't. The point is they should know. 
The prestige of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will suffer unless the schools adopt policies that are morally responsible. But more importantly, blacks will continue to suffer under the apartheid policies of the South African government unless somebody does something to help. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are in the unique position to make this crucial effort that can make a difference for these people. 
Something must be done. Something can be done. Let's just hope the schools will find 
the courage to act. 
Doonesbury 
vYV'--'-..0?'~(? 
~W PI?£$/PENT, I 7HJNI< 7H/5 IS II SCi/5/)()f.E YaJOW Be PROU/J fF. IN Ml OPINION, 'f(J(J'/?C 5l3NI?IN3 JlJ5T THe RIGHT POUT/CAL SIGNALS. 

-The Observer 


~rrv ~\JV't-
OMY, BOIL. IT rom FOR.M&,MIKE-. E-XACTLY /A/HAT ME93AG£ AMI NOW 513NlJIN6 70 TH£ Jl3IAJ5? 

Today's culture should not forget Holocaust 
From Newsweek to Notre Dame the spectre of caricatured thinking is on the rise. Newsweek's recent analysis of reactions to Reagan's proposed visit to the Bitburg war cemetery makes it seem as if a "Jewish con­spiracy" is at work. Similarly, one reads in The 
Eugene Rockberg-Halton 
guest column 
Observer, "The knowledge that SS graves were in the burial ground brought a scream­ing pro-Jewish force to its feet." Later, the same author says, "If the administration has stepped on a few toes in its announcement, then so be it. That visit is much more impor­tant than the whinings ofpeople like Wiesel." 
Jews and other people "like Wiesel" should be outraged at the fiasco of Reagan's visit. What should have been an uncomplicated visit to our close friend Germany has been turned, through Reagan and his puppet­masters, into an x-ray ofour culture offorget­fulness. 
Remember, Reagan at first refused to visit concentration camps, since this would no doubt have gone against the grain ofhis "feel­good" image and California inability to con­front negative emotions. This is, after all, why he is the master Confidence Man ofour time ­he tells us all is good, if we only believe so. 
Why is it that Helmut Kohl, the con­servative German leader, can recognize that the Nazi past of Germany must never be for­gotten, and that in remembering it Germany not only strengthens its democracy, but also prevents itself from ever lapsing into col­lective insanity again? Should not Americans also gain from confronting the horrible realities of rational genocide? Should not the wreaths be placed on the true "victims of Naziism," the exterminated Jews as well as all those who chose to take a stand against Naziism? 
Doubtless some German soldiers might have been against Naziism, but the facts are that the vast majority were not. Is there any rational way in which the SS thugs could be called "victims of Naziism?" Obviously not. In 
Garry Trudeau 

a realistic visit, the American people could 
join with the German people in recognizing 
that one of the conditions for freedom is a 
culture that can remember, a point well-made 
by Czech writer Milan Kundera in his indict­
ment of East European Communist-imposed 
forgetfulness. 
Reagan has not only betrayed freedom and 
history in his proposed German visit; he has 
chosen to consign to oblivion the happy mo­
ment of the meeting of U.S. and the Soviet 
forces at the river Elbe near the end of World 
War II. One need not disregard all the 
atrocities ofthe Soviet Union to recognize this 
fortuitous moment in history when a common 
purpose momentarily united two otherwise 
opposed powers. 
Would not an Elbe meeting between 
Reagan and Gorbachev at least symbolize the 
ideal of dialogue? But apparently Reagan 
believes that no Soviet soldiers were 
"victims" ofcommunism. The forgetfulness of 
Soviet-dominated communism described by 
Kundera meets its true counterpart in Reagan 
and his Hollywood sense (or lack) ofhistory. 
Returning to more localized forgetfulness recently in The Observer article, we see an author who begins by dredging up an outdated (indeed very Nazi) caricature of Jews. He then claims-that while this caricature may be forgotten, Jews will not let us forget the Holocaust. He then seems to think the Holocaust is a caricature of the German people under the Third Reich, apparently un­representative, and needing to be forgotten. He says that the killers were "undoubtedly of warped reasoning" and that hence the killers were tragic as well. 
I say that the identificaiton of the remembrance of the Holocaust solely with theJews, as ifit is only their problem (and as if, even if it were only their problem, it is now insignificant because it gets in the way offeel­good forgetfulness) shows itself to be the work of anti-semitic and "warped reasoning" or, perhaps more charitably, it is simple caricature. Only by living remembrance can caricatures of whatever sort -of Jews, Ger­mans, or Russians-be overcome. 
Eugene Rocbberg-Halton is an assistant professor ofsociology at Notre Dame. 
Quote of the day 
"When one is a stranger to oneseH then one is estranged from others too." 
-Anne Morrow Lindbergh 
"ie~R~O~i~n~t~-------------------------------------------T_u_es_d_ay~,_A~p-ri~l3~0~,~~9~8~5~~p=ag~e~7 
[ P.O.Box Q
__________J 
Kroeger's point good but attitude dangerous 
DearEditor: 
I am writing in response to Dave Kroeger's article titled "Caricature of Germans Also Must Be Forgotten" ofApril 24. I imagine that Kroeger meant to make the point that the whole German people should not be forever penalized for the Holocaust. It is a good point, but Kroeger's article conveyed a much dif­ferent message to me. 
Frankly, it struck me as being tactless, uni­nformed and insensitive, if not worse. Kroeger obviously has no understanding of what the Holocaust was and is. Leaving aside his rude and unnecessary enumeration of a Jewish stereotype, leaving aside his unwarranted and personal attack on Elie Wiesel and even leaving aside his simplistic and erroneous opinions about Israel, I feel compelled to comment on his dangerous attitudes about the meaning and implications of the Holocaust. 
SS soldiers were evil -their cause was evil ­and Kroeger, and Reagan for that matter, should not hedge or confuse them with drafted German soldiers, American soldiers or, unbelievably worst of all, Holocaust vic­rims. 
Holocausts are not "a dime a dozen." Kroeger asks us to "look at the facts." The fact is, Kroeger, that it does nor matter that World War II ended 40 years ago. It should infuriate everyone that Kroeger's and Reagan's wish is to "(put) the past aside." It is attitudes like that, attitudes that consider the murdered jews "a bunch of bones lying halfway around the world" that we should not let "sidetrack" us, that worry me. The Holocaust cannot be "dismissed" or it will happen again. I consider Kroeger's letter grossly anti-Semitic and ter­rifyingly ignorant. He has no grasp of the hor­ror of the Holocaust. 
I only hope he does not realize what he is 
communicating. He hedges about the mag­
nitude of the Holocaust and about the hateful­
ness and evilness of the Nazis. That is 
unacceptable and inexcusable. I cannot un­
derstand the Holocaust myself. It defies com­
prehension. But I can speak out against the 
potentially dangerous precedent of Kroeger's 
letter. He understands even less than I. 
We do need to carry with the memory of 
the Holocaust a hatred of the perpetrators. If 
Kroeger and Reagan cannot see that the 
Holocaust involves the whole human race and 
can never be cast off then I can only hope that 
some people have taken time out to confront 
the issue of the Holocaust and to try to learn a 
lesson forever. Reagan's visit to the German 
cemetery is a symbol ofhis insensitivity. 
I do not worry about the German people. I 
worry about the possibility of another 
Holocaust. The Holocaust is the fault of those 
who hate and those who do not see. My 
response to Kroeger's letter is not an over­
reaction. 40 years ago, the Holocaust was 
denied. Let's stop denying how serious it was 
and how seriously we must still deal with it. 
Anne Blakey Notre DameStudent 
Pettifer clears up her mysterious identity 

DearEditor: 
I am not the phantom graduate. In response to Maria Miceli's questions -I was the first women accepted by Notre Dame for under­graduate studies. It took me a biblical seven years to get my degree-I had a baby en route. I graduated in 1976 under my married name. 
I write under my family (maiden) name, as do many women these days. Vocationally, I would describe myself as a reluctant desert mother living in Reagan's wilderness. 
Ann Pettifer South Bend, IN 
Bookstore committee again neglected women 
DearEditor: 
After having watched Bookstore Basketball for four years here at Notre Dame and thoroughly enjoying the preliminary rounds of Bookstore XIV, it was once again a disap­pointment that Women's Bookstore Finals received such inadequate treatment on the part of the committee. Though Men's Bookstore draws a larger crowd, popularity should not serve as an excuse for unequal treatment. 
Not only was the public address system 
being set up during Women's Finals, but once 
it was in place, those in charge had the 
audacity to blare music over the system as if 
the crowd needed to be entertained. Chuck 
Freeby did such a great job announcing both 
the semi-finals and finals of men's competi­
tion, why couldn't the last two rounds of 
Women's Bookstore receive the same treat­
ment? The crowd and the players themselves 
had to request that the music be stopped and 
continually ask for an update of the score. 
Furthermore, while over 30 male par­
ticipants received awards, a mere six women 
received trophies. At the end of a long, well­
played tournament, "going all the way" -the 
women's runners-up -left the court empty 
handed. The extent of the recognition they 
received consisted of having their names 
anounced once when the P.A. system was 
finally used at the end ofthe game. After three 
weeks of effort, the Women's Finalists should 
not have to buy a t-shirt as a momento of 
Bookstore XIV. 
We owe them more than that. 
Thomas]. Pieronek Mary Ellen Arn MicheleRooney Amy Wuellner Laurel-Ann Dooley Mike Nichols 
Column gives reason to not forget Holocaust 
DearEditor: 
Dave Kroeger's flippant and distorted column provides a first-class example of why the Holocaust must never be forgotten. Kroeger claims that it is "insensitive" ofJews to think "that the lives of German soldiers are unworthy or tainted by some type ofpoison." Yet members of the Waffen SS buried at Bit­burg were not just hapless soldiers who had the misfortune to fight for the "wrong" side. They were members of Hitler's elite guard, a select corps which provided guards and ex­ecutioners at concentration camps erected to destroy millions ofJews and other resisters of the Third Reich. 
Wearing black caps and skull-and­crossbone insignia, SS squads rounded up Jews throughout Europe, then murdered them on the spot or dispatched them to death camps like Auschwitz. The SS were hardly ordinary soldiers, as Kroeger describes them, "just like you and me, with the same problems and aspirations as the rest of us." They were war criminals, and recalling the atrocities they committed is like looking at evil double­distilled. 

Elie Wiesel was right when he said of Reagan's intended visit to SS graves that "the issue here is not politics, but good and evil. And we must never confuse them." 
Kroeger complains of those who insist that the horrors of the Holocaust must never be forgotten. He blithely assures us that "holocausts are a dime a dozen." Yet Hitler's persecution of the Jews was not so much an aberration ofhistory as it was a culmination of centuries of Western anti-Semitism. The suf­ferings of the Jews were starker; the com­plicity in evil of their Gentile neighbors was more widespread and more enthusiastic; and the complacency of the rest of the world was more somnolent than Reagan or Kroeger might care to imagine. 
The Holocaust did not occur in a moral vacuum. It sprangJi:om a hatred ofJews which had festered for centuries within the mindset of Western Christendom. This is why remem­bering Hitler's atrocities is more than "allowing ourselves to be sidetracked by a bunch of bones lying halfway around the world." The disparagement of Jews, alas, is more than a painful memory. 
"The drama of the Holocaust," as Jeane Kirkpatrick recently observed, "the victimiza­tion of the Jewish people, continues to this day." Kroeger's insensitive remarks provide a shameful case in point. 
FatherIsaac McDaniel NotreDame 
Knights thank people 
helping in anniversary 
DearEditor: 

We would like to thank the members ofour Notre Dame community for their help and participation in our celebration of Notre Dame's Knights of Columbus, Council No. 1477's 75th Anniversary. Special thanks to Father Ted Hesburgh, Bill Hickey, Hannah Eldred, Jane Perry and everyone from Univer­sity Food Services, Father john Kurtzke, Fat­her DanJenky, Thomas Bergin, Frank Bonello, Father Andrew Christiansen, Suzanne Kelly, D'Arcy Chisholm, Father Edward Malloy, Thomas ). Mason and the Notre Dame Glee Club. 
The Supreme Knight, Virgil C. Dechant, and the Director of the Service Department at Supreme Council, Harvey Bacque, attended the celebration, and they were very impressed with the Notre Dame Community. 
Our anniversary celebration was held in honor of our long-time benefactor and Trus­tee Emeritus Eli ). Shaheen. It was the cul­mination of much hard work, and we have these and many other people to thank. 
joseph Piccolo Thomas Darrow Annir•ersary Co-Chairman 
Outburst of aggression embarrassment to team 
DearEditor: 

While watching the Blue-Gold game Satur­day, I was shocked by the sight oftwo football players fighting after a play had ended. This fight was not a mere shoving match. After their initial altercation, the blue player was seen kicking a gold player who was at the time lying on the ground. 
After the incident, I saw no firm disciplinary action taken on the part of the coaches. Of course, the players are competing for starting positions, and aggression is an integral part of the game. Yet, this outburst occurred after the whistle was blown. Furthermore, both players are members ofthe same Notre Dame football team. I believe the whole incident was an em­barrassment to both the football program and to the University. 
Who is to take responsibility for this shame­ful incident? The players? The coaching staJf? Gerry Faust? This type of outburst reflects a lack of discipline, the discipline which ul­timately is the responsibility of the head coach. Whether or not disciplinary action was taken after the game and whether or not this action was sufficient, the event should never have taken place. 
Although Faust's perseverance and op­timism have enabled him to overcome an overwhelming amount of criticism and to earn respect for his coaching ability, I must question his ability to instill discipline in his players, such that they have, at least, respect for their fellow teammates. 
This letter is not a personal attack on Gerry Faust. I wish him the best of luck in the com­ing season. He is an individual with a great deal of class, but I hope that changes will be made to combat this type ofsituation and that these unrepresentative displays will not be seen in the future. 
Chris Simonet Dillon Hall 
Transfer housing call will fall upon deaf ears 
DearEditor: 
A week ago, Margaret McCabe wrote an editorial regarding the i~ue of housing for transfer students, especially women, at Notre Dame. Her editorial was a call for action on the part of the administration. Unfortunately, that call will not be heard. 
Notre Dame does not need transfer stu­dents. The number of transfer students ac­cepted is based solely on financial reasons. Every year, approximately 200 students leave the University, for one reason or another. Every year, approximately 200 transfer stu­dents are accepted to the University. Without the transfer students, the University would lose over $2 million in tuition. 
This fall will bring a new group of transfer students. However, it will also bring ex­panded efforts to make them feel more a part ofthe "Notre Dame Community" and less like second-class citizens. 
Transfer orientation is taking action to in­crease its budget and make University officials more aware of the problems and needs of the transfer population (housing is only one problem). A new transfer student club is being organized, and an Adopt-A-Transfer program, similar to a hall's Big Brother/Big Sister program, is under way. Even the pos­sibility ofan off-campus rector, to aid students in adjusting to off-campus living, is being dis­cussed. However, without the support of the student body, these ambitions will be futile. 
On April 30, the Transfer Orientation Com­mittee for 1985-86 will meet in the New Or­leans Room of LaFortune at 7:00 p.m. In the past, former transfers have been most helpful, but anyone can be involved in this effort. Representatives from every college are needed, and clubs and organization are welcome also. 
This year holds the potential of being the best ever for transfers and Transfer Orienta­tion, but help is needed to achieve that poten­tial. 
Mark Rabogliatti 
Co-commissioner Transfer Orientation 


Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Editor·tn·Ch1ef Sarah E Ham11ton Busmess Manager. . Dav•d Stephen1tch Managmg Ed1tor. Amy Stephan Advert1smg Manager .. Anne Cull1gan
The Observer IS the rndependent newpaper published by the students of the 
News Ed1tor. Ke1th Hamson Jr. Controller. 8111 H1ghducheck
Unrvers1ty of Notre Dan•c' du Lac and Saint Mary·s College. It does not necessarily 
News Ed1tor. Dan McCullough Systems Manager Mark B Johnson
reflect the policies of the ..Jdm1n1stratron of e1ther Institution. The news IS reported as 
Samt Mary·s Execut1ve Ed1tor Theresa Guanno Production Manager John A Mennell 
accurately and as obwctrvely as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
Sports Ed1tor Jeff Blumb of a maJOrity of the Ed1tor1al Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column 
Accent Ed1tor Mary Healy present the v1ews of !herr authors. Column space is available to all members of the V1ewpomt Ed1tor Joe Murphy commun1ty. and the free expreSSIOn of vary1ng op1nrons on campus. through letters. Photography Ed1tor Peter C. Laches IS encouraged. Copy Ch1el Frank L1po Founded November 3, 1966 

Cold Drinks, which derived their name from a vending machine in LaFortune, perform various sets at the Nazz. 
Don Seymour 
and in the process have become band, placed in last year's Music one of the campus' top bands. Competition. Why the change? For fun.
features staff writer 
T
The Law has been one ofthe According to Cassel, their band campus' top bands since they members do listen to the heavy he campus of Notre Dame is Super Band Waste Band, or any formed three years ago. Centered alive with music and music· other of the diverse acts on the around guitarist/ singer Tom makers, though many people may Notre Dame campus. Donohue, The Law has become 
''These bands come 
not realize it. Outside the official well-known for their program of 
realm of the Glee Club, Chapel The core ofCold Drinks rock hits and dance music. For the from every dorm, 
Choir and music department are originated in Dillon Hall's weekly past two years the band has un­class and campus 
the student bands · a dedicated mass where Bill Donnelly and Mike dergone a number ofpersonnel 
group of musicians who compose, Speranza first played together in changes. too...(and)they find 
practice and perform a vast amount public. Since freshman year, the 
a fair amount of em­
oflistening material. two friends have played together Wicked Sh--likes it loud. Notre "Ibese bands come from every often in private. However, not until Dame's own version ofSpinal Tap ployment.''
dorm and class, as well as from off this semester (they are both exploded into the campus con­
campus. "Ibey practice in base­juniors) did they manage to as­sciousness this past February at the 
ments, in the Knights ofColumbus, semble a solid group of musicians. Nazz Music Competition with their metal music they play but their act 
in Stepan Center, and any other raucous but hilarious performance. is definitely played up. lbey strive 
space they can find. Most impor· lbe band started playing toget­They failed to place then, but they for the shock effect, and play upon tantly, they find a fair amount of her last semester, but their first had indented themselves into stu­the stereotypes associated with employment. performance and original objective dents' minds forever. such bands as judas Priest, Led was the Nazz Music Competition in The band, consisting offour Holy Zeppelin, Twisted Sister, and Black What is it like to be a member of early February. That first show Cross Hall residents dressed in Sabbath. 
a band? Quite a few students, those impressed many. Out ofa field of leather, denim, and dark sunglasses, Unfortunately, the members have 
you see in chemistry classes and in over 16, they finished fifth. That is essentially a re-incarnation ofthe not had enough time to pursue the 
the dining hall, could tell you. They position opened the door. Since Rhythm Methods, according to band's fullest possibilities and have 
are members ofCold Drinks, The then, according to Donnelly, they leader/guitarist Fred Cassel. The only performed twice this semester. Law, Wicked Sh--, the DSBs, the have played almost every weekend Rhythm Methods, a Top 40 dance The DSBs also made their campus debut at this year's Music Competi­tion. The band started last semester when a group ofstudents began playing together at a house off­campus. By February, they had honed their sound to a mixture of punk, new wave, and rockabilly according to guitarist Mike Higgans. 
They impressd many people at the competition but failed to place. However, they have since appeared a number of times at Senior Bar. Their name, often thought to stand for Downtown South Bend, is ac­tually an abbreviation ofan east coast slang expression that cannot be printed. Ask one of the band members, they would be glad to tell you. 
The last group, the Super Band Waste Band also performed at this year's Music Competition. Their roots go back two years when the two guitarist-roomates played the St. Edward's Hall talent show. This year, they added guitarist Michael Laughlin. 
All three members are extremely talented musicians who can play guitar, bass, and keyboards. But according to Laughlin the band has one problem: they have no drum­mer. They humorously and ef­fectively side-stepped this fact atthe Music Competition by using a 

drum machine. 
Laughlin attributes the band's search for a drummer to the band's lack ofperformances this semester. The Super Band Waste Band differs from all other bands in this article in their material. Their entire show centers on original songs. They have covered another group's music, but the thrust of the band, says Laughlin, is original material. 
How about practice? Members of The Law and Cold Drinks will im­mediately tell you that not much space is available. After trying many different locations, both bands have landed in a back room ofStepan Center, which they obtained through the help of the Director of Student Activities,Joni Neal. 
The DSBs practice off-campus. Both Wicked Sh-· and the Super Band Waste Band practice in their dorms. Asked about how practice time fits into a busy student schedule, Cold Drinks' Donnelly responds that scheduling becomes tight, but somehow, he manages. 
What about next year? Cold Drinks and the Super Band Waste Band will return intact, both hope­fully in top form. Wicked Sh--will probably re-incarnate as a reformed Rhythm Methods, according to 
" They practice in basements, in the Knights of Col­umbus, in Stepan Center, and any other space they can find.'' 
Cassel. Wicked Sh--is fun, he says, 
but dance music is where the 
money is, that is the type ofband 
people hire. 
The DSBs and the Law, on the other hand, played their farewell dates this weekend. Returning next year for the Law will be bassist Lupone and the female lead singer. The two, according to Lupone, will try to form a new band. As for the DSBs, only guitarist Higgins will return. He would like to form a new band next year, but has nothing planned as yet. 

Should wonten beconte priests? 
Patti Tripathi 
features staffwriter 

W
omen as priests -it is becom­ing an increasingly hot issue in the Catholic Church. Countless nuns, priests and lay people are pushing for women in the pries­thood and other changes. The pressure has intensified since Con­servativeJews and Episcopalians recently permitted women to become rabbis and priests. 
Many question why women should be prevented from an in­creased role in the church when a woman brought Christ into the world. 
University President Father Theodore Hesburgh in his "Reflections on Priesthood" stated, "My first word must be one of thanksgiving to the good Lord and priest, Jesus, and His Mother, who is also the mother ofall priests. She has to be closer to the reality of priesthood than any other human being, since she brought the Saviour into the world and gave Him for all in sacrifice." 
In an interview, Hesburgh predicted there would be women in the priesthood in the future. "Women are doing many things not done before by them. There is a new perception ofwomen in the world." 
Hesburgh feels women should be allowed to become priests. The decision "is not up to me. The Pope and the Bishops will ultimately have to decide,"he added. 
Hesburgh also said, "The Holy Father says that women can not be priests. This decision was made because ofculture, practice and tradition. A lot of theological dis­cussion is taking place concerning this issue. I would not be surprised in the future ifwomen were priests. It is conceivable." 
Like the question ofwomen's role in the church, whether or not priests should marry has also been a controversial issue. "It is not theological why men should be celebate. Monks brought the celibacy which spread to all of 
church. It came about gradually," Hesburgh said. 
Those who are against women in the priesthood say that Christ chose twelve apostles who were men. Therefore, women should not be allowed to become priests. Hes­burgh believes this analogy is incor­rect because Christ's selection of 12 Jewish fishermen to be apostles does not mean that only Jewish fishermen can become priests. 
In an informal survey, a majority ofNotre Dame and Saint Mary's students said they were for women 
'' I would not be sur­prised in the future if women were priests. It is conceivable." 
-Father Hesburgh 
in the priesthood. The older mem­
bers ofthe Notre Dame community 
tended to be more traditional con­
cerning this heated issue. 
Below are some "campus com­
ments" on women in the 
priesthood. 

"It could be a possibility. It's 
people themselves accepting 
women. I believe we should follow 
the teachings. Whatever the Holy 
Father says we should follow. If 
sometime the church would allow, 
I would agree. 
ASister 

"I think they should have every 
right ifthey wanted to. If women 
are willing to do the sacrifices and 
meet the challenges to enter the 
friesthood, they should be given the 
opportunity. I do not think the 
system would change though." 
NikkiBailey 

"I believe the church should give women a fuller role in the church. I do not think Christ ever specified gender credentials for the pries­thood." 
EdMarisco 
"The Church should keep up with changes in society regarding the role of women and broadening their career opportunities." 
BrandyWells "I am all for it, why not?" JimMoneth "I do not think anyone should go into priesthood." Charlie Wilmoth 
"Ifa woman has a great desire to be a priest, then she should be allowed to; because ofthe fact, if nothing else, that we are running out ofmen priests." 
Beth Conway "I think there will be women priests in the next I 0 to I 5 years." Matt O'Neill ''I'll leave it up to the Pope." 
D. Keating 
"Since there is a shortage of priests, I don't see anything wrong with allowing women to perform the task in which men have shown a lack ofinterest." 
Maggie Green 
"The church is recognizing that the traditional views ofwomen and the church is outdated. Because of this, in the future, we may see women in the priesthood within the Catholic church." 
ShannonMarks 
"I am against it. Part ofit is tradi­tion. As far as I am concerned Pope is the spiritual leader. He does not believe women belong in the church." 
George Love 
"I see no scriptural reason that would prohibit the ordinaion of women to ministry. I believe very strongly that there is neither male or female in the Lord. All Christians are called through their Baptism. It is important for men and women that the main principle ofministry be service. Neither male nor female should seek priesthood for prestige or power." 
Rectress DeloresWard 

out ofthis vapid hellhole, and he doesn't regret it in the least, thank you very much. But he is sensitive to the inevitable question: Why? Well, you boneheads, Sir Obnoxious will tell you why. 
It all started in a typical classroom in a class oftypically docile students on a typical day in April. God knows why-although Sir Obnoxious should too -a couple of the worst teachers on the planet circled around like vultures waiting to pounce on Sir Obnoxious in his senior year (although one ofthem had the courtesy to strike during sophomore year, single-handedly initiating Sir Obnoxious' change ofcollege and major), but they did. Hey, these things happen. · 
Sir Obnoxious will hereby admit that he is not the best of students, but: not only were these teachers not the best of the crop, but they even transcended the plateau ofobnoxiousness, reaching a state at which their mere existence is human pollution. 
Now that's bad. 
Therefore it should not shock the below-average reader that in this particular classroom ofparticularly docile students on this particular day in April, Sir Obnoxious grew particularly frustrated and decked the proverbial hell out ofa particular teacher. 
Oh, it was obnoxious, and Sir Obnoxious reveled in its rudeness for many moons afterward -until the day he checked the mailbox looking for the latest issue ofObnoxious Quarterly and finding instead a letter from the dean ofstudents requesting Sir Obnoxious' presence to discuss matters ofcrucial importance to Sir Ob­noxious' welfare. 
Sir Obnoxious simply had to defend his actions. He defended it as a statement for the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community, a singular unleashing ofall the aggression bottled up inside the student body, except for the Yuppies who normally tend to follow the trends, and blindly at that. Simply pathetic. 
Sir Obnoxious also defended his action by explaining that he hadn't had lunch that day, in addition to having two papers due the next, and a final coming up in the imminent future. 
This did not, as you might expect, persuade the dean ofstudents, and so Sir Obnoxious took it upon himself to let the dean know just how he felt by conducting a one-person storming of the Ad­ministration Building, complete with open beer and protest sign. 
The following day, Sir Obnoxious received correspondence from the big guy himself-Fr. Ted. The letter made references to Sir Obnoxious' alleged social problems, which did not sit well with Sir Obnoxious, who will accept any accusations ofrude and tactless behavior, but who cannot allow anyone to question his undeniable social prowess. Ask around at spitting and belching contests -Sir Obnoxious is quite a guy. 
Sir Obnoxious, therefore, thought it the perfect defense would be to exhibit some of the qualities which made him such a hit at such events, and to then follow that up with the assertion that if presented with the situation again, he would not think twice about using all weapons at hand to dispose neatly of the irked instructor. 
This ofcourse would be supported by Sir Obnoxious' theory that there are some teachers who actually think that students consider their class the number one priority in their lives, and that this particular teacher happened to fit nicely into that category. 
Sir Obnoxious was out on his laurels within three minutes time, which, besides causing great pain to Sir Obnoxious' derriere, also signified the end ofa magnificent college career. 
Well, Sir Obnoxious wishes to inform you that he doesn't mind leaving this place even a tad. He has come to the conclusion, after sixteen years ofstudy, that school leans heavily toward the bogus side of the reality meter. It's the people who make the place, and anyone will tell you that, although it's a different crowd that Sir Obnoxious is enamoured with than is typical. 
Sir Obnoxious came here to effect a change in the nauseatingly polite everyday activity, the final call being this newspaper's publishing ofa weekly column by that violently prude Miss Manners, who has since fled in terror. Sir Obnoxious had only to instruct for a few weeks until the response began to feed back in large quantities: obnoxious alcohol policy protests, tactless arguments concerning silly campus calendars, totally rude support ofa maniac for president, and oh-so-mannerless pep rallies. 
The mission has been accomplished, and Sir Obnoxious will leave behind an impressive faction in the community he so loves: people whose heads have swelled with power, people whose calendars no longer allow for time spent with old friends, people who can't take the time-nay, who won't take the time-to be polite, and people who are just inherently obnoxious. 
Sir Obnoxious is impressed. 
Ofcourse, Sir Obnoxious won't miss you at all, and encourages you not to write or call except in an emergency, and then only in an obscene manner. 
Outtahere. 
-
0 
Tuesday, April 30, 1985-page 10 
Tubbs scores unanimous decision to take WBA title away from Page 
Sports Briefs 
The Saint Mary's softball team swept a 
doubleheader at Bethel College yesterday. The Belles took the first game, 24·1, and won the second, 9-4. -The Obsen1er 
The ND Women's Water Polo Clubwill be 
meeting today at 5 p.m. at the Rockne Memorial Building. Any mem­ber who cannot attend should call Marianne Bailey at 283-3590. ­
The Obsen1er 

The Senior 5K Runwill be hetd today at 3:3op.m. at Stepan Center. Runners should meet at 3 p.m. For more information, call Vince Thomas at 283-1769 or Jane Dowd at 283-1349. -The Obsen'er 
The NFL draftand various trivia to fill the boring lapses will be the topics tonight on "Speaking ofSports" at 9 p.m. on WVFI AM-64. listeners may join the fun and excitement by calling cohosts Chuck Freeby and Kevin "Bruce" Herbert at 239-6400. -The Obser­ver 
The marketing club golf tournament 
will be held tomoTTow. Any interested members should sign up for tee times in Hayes Healy room 255 and pay a S3 greens fee anytime today or tomoTTow morning. The tournament will begin at 1:30 p.m., and prizes will be awarded afterward at a cookout.-The Obser­
l'er 

Ascramble golftournamentwill be hosted by 
NVAon Saturday. Students, faculty and staffmay register by paying a $3 greens fee at the NVA office today. Prizes will be awarded. For more information, call NVA at 239-6100.-The Observer 
Associated Press 

BUFFALO, N.Y.-Tony Tubbs, who had his nose broken by Greg Page in his first amateur fight nine years ago, got sweet revenge last night when he scored a unanimous l 5-round decision over Page to win the World Boxing Association heavyweight championship. 
Tubbs seemed to want it more than Page, who often posed more than punched, while Tubbs scored with effective jabs and left hooks. 
All three judges scored it clearly for the new champion, 22-0. Judge AI Wilensky scored it 147-140, Joe Santarpia 145-140 and AI Tremari 145-142 for Tubbs. 
Incredibly for Page, it was his third loss in his last four fights. The victory came when he knocked out Gerrie Coetzee in the eighth round in South Africa last Dec. 1 to win the title. 
Page came in at 239-pounds and didn't seem to have his heart in the fight, which drew choruses of boos from an estimated crowd of 7,500 at the Memorial Auditorium. 
While it was a bitter diappoint­ment for the native ofLouisville, Ky., it was a joyous moment for Jimmy Ellis, another Louisville native and former heavyweight champ who trains Tubbs. 
And it was still another Louisville native who stole the thunder from both fighters. That was Muhammad Ali, the former three-time world champion who was at ringside. 
On several occasions during lapses in action, the crowd chanted "Ali, Ali." The old champ rose to his feet and led the cheers in the eighth and 1Oth rounds, and he drew one of the biggest roars of the night when he shadow-boxed between the 1Oth and 1 1 th rounds. 
The Don King promotion tabbed "Vindication: blockbuster in Buf­falo" turned out to be a complete bust for the 26-year-old Page. On Sunday night he had his WBA cham­pionship belt stolen from his hotel room among 530,000 worth of items. 
Tubbs, also 26, didn't get the belt, but he got the championship last night, and he earned it with an intel­ligent fight in which he conserved his energy while scoring effectively against Page, who often moved for­ward but did not back up his ag­ggressive stance with aggressive punching. 
It looked like Page might get back into the fight when he seemed to have the best of the 1 1 th through the 13th rounds by simply being busier than Tubbs, 229-pounds, who seemed to be running out ofgas. 
Then the challenger from Cincin­nati took control again in the 14th round when he landed a hard right and several good hooks in the first minute, and then closed the round with a hard right to the head and a left-right to the head just before the bell. 
Tubbs also had the best of the l 5th round, in which both fighters opened and closed with toe-to-toe exchanges. 
At the end of the fight, King climbed into the ring and told one of Page's cornermen, ''You blew it." 
Before the fight, Page claimed he had beaten Tubbs in eight of nine amateur fights and would knock him out in his first world title defense. But he never came close to even knocking Tubbs down, and once again he heard the boos and jeers that have marked his career, which opened with such promise. 
Page, 24-4 wich 19 knockouts, might have his career in jeopardy. Tubbs, who has scored 15 knock­outs but was more than satisfied to win on a decision last night, went into the fight ranked seventh by the WBA. 
In two North American Boxing Federation bouts also on the card, Tim Witherspoon, the former World Boxing Council heavyweight cham­pion, looked like the best heavyweight on the card by knock­ing out James Broad with a barrage of punches in the second round to gain the NABF heavyweight title. 
Witherspoon, 222-pounds, of Philadelphia, hurt the 261-pound Broad with a right hand with about one minute left in the second round, and then jumped all over Broad. 
The Obsen•er Notro: Dame olfko:. locau.-d on the third floor of l.aForluno: Student Cemn. an·o:pls dassilkd advenisin~ from 9 a.m. until ·l p.m. \londay lhrou~h Friday The Obserl'er Saini Marv"s offi<T. lot·aro:d on tht· thud floor of llaggar Colle~e Center. anTpls dassitkds from 12..~0 p.m. umil -~p.m .. Mon­dar though Friday. lkadline for nt·xr-dav dassitkds is 5 p.m. All classifieds must bo: prepaid. either in person or by mail.< :har~l" b I 0 n·nts per five t·harat·
Classifieds 
lers ·r da 
NOTICES  LOST: One (1) Physics 128 book. Ac­codentally (?)taken from South Dining Hall during lunch on 4/29. In orde< lo slay at  Chicago one-bedroom apartment lo sub· let Available May I. 10 minutes by bus from loop. Desirable neighborhood.  Is It True You Can Buy Jeeps for $44 through the U.S. government? Gel the facts today! Call 1-312-742-1142 Ext  PERSONALS  CALIFORNIANS! II anyone can help get some of my stuN home to mid or North. Calif., or wants to co-rent transportation  
NO I need to get at least a ·o· in !he cla88  Vintage building with elevator. Mo (312)  7316  lh8fe, I may be able lo pay a hl11e more  
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-89117  and I need the book lo study lor finals. Call Kevin at 2103 or pul it back where you  348-2418 AM or PM.  AIRLINE  TICKET  From  South  Bend  OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N.,  than !he usual. Call Mike at1004.  
WORDPROCE881NG-2n-6045.  found it Thanks.  For summer; upper half of house. 709 E. Riverside, next to Leeper Park w/ view of  through Chicago and Dallas to AmariUo. Texas. Scheduled lo leave South Bend  ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  I NEED GRADUATION TIXI!! Any extra call Sheila 234-7319.  
I need my keys ... llosllhem seturdey bel·  river. We pay $300/mo.. we.ll sublet for  Mondey, May 13. at 10am. Muslleaveal  HELPII  ······················  
ween Gatv1n and Keenan. There is a  $240/mo, ulil. inc. Call287·4024.  !his lime. Will take best oHe<. Call1710.  NEED 1 OR 2 TIX, TOGETHER OR  CONNECTICUT STUDENTS: Don't for­ 
Cadeue1s (medocal symbol) on the chain.  SEPARATE.  gel BAGGAGE TRUCK 01gn-ups lhos  
If you lou nd them please call Glenn at  LOFT,VERY STURDY. CALL 2846  PLEASE CALL MARYA AT 1276 OR  Wednesday. May 1. Times are 7-8:15 at  
PRQ-TYPE Ove< 14 yra. expenence typong student pape<o. reoumea. and dls­senatoons 2n-5833.  272-1869. LOST:IN SOUTH DINING HALL on April  WANTED  Selling  2  round-lrip  lockets  Chic­ 1296: KEEP TRYINGII . ..............................  La Fortune. and 8:3o-9pm in Lemans lobby. Must pay on FULL at01gn-ups.  
25. a  green  backpack  contain  ing  3  Luxembourg,  leaving  June  18. II  in­ HELP!! I AM IN DIRE NEED OF ONE  HELP!!!!  MY  MOM  JUST  HAD  SEX­ 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. GOVERNMENT HOME from $1 (U ...,..,). Alao delinquent laJI property.  lolde<s. 3 notebooks. an accounting book, a management book, pens, pencils, a cal~ culalor. 3 packs of gum, and other impor­lanlstuH. II you have any info about this, !honk you know where il might be. or just  HELP!! NEED 1 OR 2 GRAD TIX, TOGETHER OR SEPARATE. PLEASE CALL MARYA AT 1276 OR 1296; KEEP TRYING!!  terested call288-3595. TELEVISION, 15 INCH, $40. NEW CAMPING LIGHT, $10. NEW HAIR DRYER. $7. ROOM HUMIDIFIER, $10.  MORE GRADUATION TICKET'!! PARENTS WILL KILL ME IF I OONT COME THROUGH WITH THIS DEAL!! PLEASE HELP OUT A POOR FELLOW SENIOR. AND CALL JEFF AT3859.  TUPLETS AND THEY ALL WANT TO GO TO GRADUATION!!!!! IF YOU HAVE AN· NNNNYYY EXTRA TICKETS PLEASE CALL TIM (1108) or LISA (2775) GRIF­FIN ... My Mom woll be very lhankful.  
Call 805-e87-eocl0 Ext. GH-8834 lor ln­lornwtton.  want lo talk, call Chris at 3244 or 3243. I really need !hos stuH for finals. Thanks.  RIDE NEEDED TO THE PITISBURGH AREA ON MAY 2 or 3. CALL JIM AT  CALL4278. I HAVE GRAD  ............................ TIX. 4 TOGETHER  RETAIL FURNITURE SALES Part time. flexible hours. lmmed. openings. call  
1930.  LOWER LEVEL 2 UPPER LEVEL CALL  Chris Pedevilfa 259-0007  1o-8PM The  HAPPY BIRTHDAY TODII  
BeSmart" Sell your texis and paperbacks lor SS before !he ruoh!! M-F,B/T 12-4 pm. We alao carry a wode aaaortmenl ol CliH and Monarch Noles. Pandoraa  Lost: Keyring with car keys and dorm keys on it Lost on South Quad Friday alter­noon. If found please return to Laura at 323 P.W. or call2798.  N-Tlcketa For Graduation PI•H Cell Mel al 283-3716  3493. FOR SALE Panasonoc lune-box. cheap' Call2250  Furniture Gallery. Misha. THANK YOU ST. JUDE FOR BLESS­INGS RECEIVED  HOPE YOU HAVE A GREAT DAY. XXXXOOOO THE SMCERS Why do we keep gattlng In eo many llghla? 
Books.937 So.Bend Ave.,1 block from  HAVE SWEET DREAMS! 2 TWIN BEDS  FCE  
Corby's. LOST/FOUND  Did you acodentally pick up a green lab book from the monitor's desk in the En­goneering Student Center? II you did, our names are on the book and we desperately need it back. Please call us-­a three credit course is nding on its sate  ONE-BDRM. SUMMER SUBLET NEEDED. CALL 313-764-8979 AFTER 6 P.M. NEED RIDE to NJ alter 5/13.Uz 1992  FOR SALE CALL 277-4872 FOR SALE: Post OHice Jeep. "69. $150. CALL JOHN 234-9580 Car top luggage carrier. 30"" x 40"'. Fits  FCE FCE FCE RETURN YOUR FCE TODAYIII (TO HALL PRES. THANKS!! )  Thank You Saonl Jude!! CLASS OF '87 PICNIC!! . Friday. May 3rd 4:3o-6:30  

 return.  USED BIKE. Why keep hauling it around if  mosl cars $40. 232-5646.  .....................................  Green Field  
LOST:GOLD BRACELET WITH GOLD TEDDY BEAR CHARM SENTIMENTAL VALUE. PLEASE CALL 232-4552 OR  LOST: BROWN WALLET between North Dining Hall and LaFortune. Call Marc a! 1170.  you never use it? 239-6426 Ask for Flavio. "84 NO grad needs ROOMMATE for 2  FOR SALE: COMPLETELY REMODELED 2-BEDROOM HOUSE 1 Milefrom C.mpua. Gr_. lorlalllnveat­ REMEMBER. THE PEOPLE YOU MEET ON YOUR WAY UP ARE THE SAME ONES YOU MEET ON YOUR WAY DOWN.  CLASSOF"87 Mass a! !he Grone  
2n-67421F FOUND. LOST GOLD CHAIN.CRUCIFIXAND CIRCULAR JESUS MEDAL INSCRIBED. CALL 2n-6742 OR 232-45521F FOUND.  LOST: A green Comparative Government notebook and a red Political Theory notebook. They both have my name, dorm, and room number in !hem. II found. contact John Kilcran in Sorin Hall, room 335. My number is 2196.  bdrm apt in Birmingham. MI. Call 272­8617 if relocating in Detroit area. NEED GRAD TIX, WILL PAY$$$. JOHN 234-9580 I r.-a _, Summe< employment  ment. Land conlr8ct aval-. Call attar 6 p.m. for appt. 287-4107 STEREO & VIDEO SALE -LAST CHANCE TO BUY QUALITY EQUIP. AT FACTORY PRICES. BUY NOW FOR SUMMER & NEXT YEAR. MOST MAJOR  Attention all tutora and captalna o1 NSHP. Annual aprlng picnic Ia thla Sunclloy from 2 to 4 p.m. at Stepan Centar. F-fooci-F­clrtnkl BE THEREI  May 51h. 7 P.M. B.Y.O.B. (Blanket) JOYEUX ANNIVERSAfRE• BadguysRockyoutheUncommoms 
Loe1:blue NO bookbag,Physics and Mec­ necessilaleo my buying a car. If you have  BRAND5-TOM 1527 ·JVC INTEG. AMP  Are you planning logo 10 Europe any bme  Children  oflhecorn  Eaalerbr..kmisler  
hanics booll. 4 notebooks and 4 folders, lllld C81cutator. Hfound~ call180<1  To the peraon who !hough! !hal il would  an inexpensive car !hal you Cion"! -nt to drive all ltle -Y home, let me know. CaM  $169  during !he fall 1965? II so, give me a call al 1346 (Aa« lor Barbera).  Molaaaea AlrameoRornantic? jamaos! Tanquery& tonic&mvi.,pursuit  
LOST: ONE EDDIE BAUER JAC-SAC. BURGUNDY COLOR. LOST ON 4124 AT EITHER WASHINGTON HALL OR 116 O"SHAG. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL CLIFFORD AT 1436. THANK YOU!  be cute loremove !he set of keys from !he security vehicle on 51. Marya campus friday nigh!, !he jOke was laken very a.ioullly. II you have any information, pleeae call 23~ or 232-9332 evenings. NO QUESTIONS ASKED ...  Dan a! 1625. Thanks. ad Need 1 male roommate for campus view Apts OVfJI summe<, $170.00 each calf John at 2n-oe09.  TICKETS  I need graduation lickela (more !han everyone else). II you can help call Barba! 1346. Thanks. TDKSAIO'a  lcecreamcones Neve< ontime Nict<ieadol­lar imports Americana1611oor Knighllinn burglars Flo-sin yourdoseaaheleyea OceanamilecosleiiO Raidaalbridgets. ISLE OF EWE! MMM  
Su-houelng naeded Two guy8 alii  HELP!!  NEED  1  OR  2  GRAD  TIX,  51or $10  HAPPY BIRTHDAY  
~ somewhere to Nve thla summer. ff  TOGETHER OR SEPARATE. PLEASE  TDKSMO'a  MYRA CAlliS  
- LOST. AN ARMY STYLE JACKET. OF VERY SENTIMENTAL VALUE. IF  LOST: Levi's jacket al !he ACC Saturday nigh! while -lching Tommy Shaw make  you have someplace chNP to rent eM/ Danai !825.  CALL MARYA AT 1276 OR 1296: KEEP TRYING!!  51or$6.50 llu..XUI'a  19 today and still not one wrinkle. You  
FOUND, PLEASE PLEASE. PLEASE CALL CATH AT 284-4173. THANKS.  a video. If found pleaaa call Colleen 284· 4034.  ······················r········································ Need a ride Eaa1 AFTER GRADUATION?  Need 3 Grlld ti• Wtn pays 1346  10for $22 While they lall  tool< marvelous! Calf 284-40180  
LOST-gold ring Wllh blue alone in Soulh  LOST: adO-a-bead NECKLACE at picnic  Pbgh, Breezewood, D.C. Calf Kathleen 2m  NEED 1 GRAD TICKET. CALL 1847  Only at Rock du Lac Firat floor LaFortune  That wasn't loo embarruaing waaol?  
Dining Hal on Tues. 4/23. II you found~.  on lhul8day. II found call 284­5421  
pleue call Liz 19112. Thanks  Thankyou!!!Reward!  NEED RIDE TO BUFFALO ON FRI.S/3  Mom and dad diiiOWn you? Your good  Pete Hendricksen.  
Want To Go To A Wedding CALL JANET  fortune. Safl me 1 or 2 grad. tickets. Jell  DEAR  JULY,INDIANA,OOUG  AND  You were a great dir8Cior1 Thanks for  
LOST TWO WEEKS AGO FRIDAY AT  284-5194  2n-4619  BRUCE; Thanks for feWng me slay  your time! Love ya. The Women of !he  
STEPAN CENTER DURING THE JAZZ FEST· A BRACELET WITH A SILVER SETTING. IF FOUND, CALL LINDA AT 4215  FO~--~~~~-_I l•••m•;~~~~~m-•  BIG BUCKS FOR GRADUATION TICK­ETS!!! CALL MARK AT 232-5645  Even ll>ough your preference iagay. cart was on my side, So he gets ro slide. I"H be back (D. K.)  TOMB ............................................. WHITE TRASH -THANKS FOR FIFL THY. DISGUSTING TREAT!  THE  
TWO GRAOUATION TICKETS  
LOST: 2 SETS OF KEYS WITH 1.0."5 ON  FOR  RENT:  GRADUATE STUDENTS  NEEDED IN A BAD WAY  HAPPY  BIRTHDAY  JIM  Thank you St. Jude  
THEM.  LOST  IN  MADALEVA  0NLY 2-lledroom HOUH 1 mile from  JOHN 2n-01807  BOBBIIThis'OIRTBALL"lurna  20  Thank you St. Jude  
BATHROOM  ON  4/23.  BELONG  TO  Cempua.  Completely  flernodalect.  6-UNIT APARTMENT FOR SALE, NO­ loday.Ladles slop by 304 DILLON and  Thank you St. Jude  
MICHELLE  COLEMAN  AND  ROSIE  1350.00/Month Call287-4107111 ep.m.  MEMORIAL AREA, EXCELLENT CON·  wiah'lhe HOSS'a HAPPY B-DAY or call  Thank you St. Jude  
DEPASQUALE CALL 4339 OR 4403.  forappt.  DITtON 233-9728 232-4528  need 3 tickela lor grad. caM John 3681.  1noand lalk dirty.  for prayers anawe<ed.  





Tuesday, April30, 1985-page 11 
Billy returns to Yanks and George; Phillies beat Expos in lOth inning 
Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Tex. -Billy Martin took over as manager of the New York Yankees for an unprecedented fourth time last night, succeeding his successor, Yogi Berra. 
"George and I didn't get Yogi fired," Martin said of the action taken Sunday by George Steinbren­ner, the Yankees' principal owner. "'The players did by being in last place. 
"My job is to push 'em and get the most out of'em. That will start with a mandatory workout on our next off­day on Thursday." 
Steinbrenner was upset when, on the Yankees' last off-day on April 22, only four players attended an op­tional workout at Yankee Stadium. 
''I'm not happy," Steinbrenner said then, "but, at this point, Yogi's running the team. He made the workout optional." 
Now Martin is running the team, and he says he is making changes. 
"We have a lot ofspeed and I'll use it because I'm a gambling type manager," said Martin. "I've got a job to do. That's to get this team from last place to first place. 
"I like our club. I just don't like the way it has been playing. It will be ­tough because I missed two months ofspring training with the team. But we'll just have sort of a spring train­
ing  around  here  until  we  get  
straightened out."  
Martin  arrived  at  Arlington  

Stadium at 3 p.m. COT and donned his familiar pin-striped uniform with the number "1." He then posed for photographs, held a series of inter-
Disappointing road trip 

Slumping Reds glad to be home 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI -The Cincinnati Reds are glad to be back home after a 2-5 road trip that left them mum­bling "what ifs" and lamenting missed opportunities. 
The Reds wasted a strong perfor­mance by ace Mario Soto on Sunday, stranding 11 baserunners in a 2-1 loss to the San Francisco Giants in 11 innings. 
"I don't get frustrated very easily, but (the losses) turned it into a bad trip," player-manager Pete Rose said. 
The Reds' pitching has remained generally effective, but the Cincin­nati offense has failed to hold up its end. The Reds have a 2.69 team earned run average and a dismal .204 team batting average. 
Soto, aiming for his fifth victory Sunday, allowed just four hits and 
Awards 
continuedfrom page 16 
And the winner is... the women's tennis team coached by Sharon Petro. 
Best Freshman... Sometimes the freshmen get lost in the shuffie, but here are three that stood out. 
Kevin Chenail, baseball -His per­formances on the mound have Larry Gallo talking about him like he's Cy Young. At least he's the closest thing the Irish have with a 3-0 record and 
1.83 ERA. 
David Rivers, basketball -We've already discussed the talents of this young man. He may not be an Einstein or Michelangelo, but he certainly proved to be the spark the Irish offense needed. 
Molly Sullivan,fencing -Another two-time nominee and deservedly so. Like Rivers, she proved that one outstanding performer can change a team. 
And the winner is. . . a tie. David Rivers and Molly Sullivan. 

views, met with his coaches and presided at a closed clubhouse meeting with the players. 
Martin said he had a long telephone talk with Berra, who "wished me luck. He told me a lot about the team and I appreciated it. We've been friends a long time." 
Martin said he had a contract to manage the Yankees until 1990. 
"I'll probably just manage two or three years and bring in somebody else," said Martin. "I told Lou Piniella to sit close to me on the bench. I'm going to work very close with him." 
Martin said he had not sought a job with another team because he was under contract to Steinbrenner. 
"The other teams couldn't have af­forded me," he said. "I've been an ad­viser to George." 
Yet, he said he was surprised when he got the nod to manage the Yankees again. 
"I didn't think I'd be coming back this year," he said. 
Martin now has a record eight American League managerial debuts -four with the Yankees and one each with the Rangers, Minnesota Twins, the Detroit Tigers and the Oakland A's. His lifetime record is 1,122 vic­tories and 934 losses for a .546 percentage. 
Phillies 3, Expos 2 
PHILADELPHIA, Penn. -Juan Samuel's two-out infield single in the bottom of the 1Oth inning drove home Darren Daulton from third base with the winning run last night as the Philadelphia Phillies defeated 
one run over the first eight innings. The Reds got seven hits over that span but cashed in for just one run. 
"We didn't hit with men on base," Rose said. "We had our oppor­tunities early in the game and we didn't take advantage of them." 
That's becoming a familiar prohlem for the Reds, who ran off 
Standings on page 12 
seven consecutive victories earlier this month but have slid to 10-9, a half-game out offirst place in the Na­tional League West. 
"Sometimes it's that way," Rose said. "We're 5-9 on the road in April­not real good, not bad. We should've won two (in San Francisco), but we 
Now for some of the more frivolous awards. . . The In-Your­Face Award -The winner is Gerry Faust. Keith Jackson and the rest of the media may have had a problem keeping a straight face when Faust said he could be 7-4 before the LSU game, but Faust proved to be a prop­het and Jackson was forced to do USFL games in the spring. 
The Wrestlemania Award These events made Hagler-Hearns look like a senior prom. 
1) The Notre Dame hockey team versus the Michigan-Dearborn hockey team -One ofthe great fights in hockey history, it even found one of the assistant coaches getting the thumb for "molesting a referee". 
2) Eric Dorsey vs. Art McGlothen at the Blue-Gold game -The only hit that was harder than Dorsey's right hand was when Mike Haywood ran over a high school cheerleader. 
The Rockne Award-The win­ners are Tim Kempton and basket­ball manager Dave Robinson, but it seems they have already picked up their trophy. 
The Notre Dame Moment 
Montreal 3-2, snapping the Expos' six-game winning streak. 
Daulton, pinch hitting for winning pitcher Kent Tekulve, led off the lOth by drawing a walk from reliever Bert Roberge, 0-1. Daulton took second on a sacrifice by Luis Aguayo and moved to third on a flyout. Samuel then hit a grounder deep into the hole that shortstop Hubie Brooks knocked down but could not throw. 
Tekulve, 1-0, the fourth Phillies pitcher, worked 2 2-3 innings. 
Royals 3, Indians 2 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -George Brett and Willie Wilson collected three hits apiece last night and the Kansas City Royals held off the Cleveland Indians 3-2 in a rain-delayed game. 
Bud Black, 2-1, took a 3-0 lead and a seven-hitter into the ninth inning. After retiring Pat Tabler, who went 0-for-4 in ending his 1 5-game hitting streak, the longest in the major leagues this season, Black allowed singles to Andre Thornton and Brook Jacoby. 
Reliever Dan Quisenberry replaced Black and gave up an RBI double to pinch-hitter Mel Hall and a run-scoring groundout to pinch­hitter George Vukovich before retir­ing Tony Bernazard on a fly ball for his third save. Neal Heaton, 1-1, was the loser. 
The start of the game was delayed 1 hour and 18 minutes by rain. 
have to quit saying, 'Should've won' and win. You've got to win and quit saying, 'Should've won.'" 
The Reds were off yesterday before opening a two-game series against Atlanta at Riverfront Stadium and a three-game weekend series against the New York Mets. 
Rose sat himself down in the last three games in San Francisco. He's had just one hit in his last 13 at-bats, dropping his average to .236 after a strong season start. 
Center fielder Eric Davis aJ.so is struggling at the plate, going hitless Sundaywith two strikeouts in five at­bats. He's hitting .152 with 25 strikeouts in 66 at-bats. 
"It's been a bad month," Davis said. "I feel good one day, and the next day I don't feel nothing. I feel good one at-bat, the next at-bat I don't. I feel good, and then it just goes away." 
Award-Oh, there are so many, but here is my list. 
1) The North Carolina game in the NCAA tournament -In the span of four seconds the ACC went from bedlam to a morgue. la.) The But­ler men's basketball game -The Irish lost. Does anything more need to be said? 
2) The Purdue game in the Hoosier Dome-Never have so many travelled so far to see so little. 
2a.) The month ofOctober for the Notre Dame football team -Gerry Faust should be thankful that George Steinbrenner doesn't run Notre Dame or he would have been gone. 
The Tolerance Award -To the readers of this column throughout the year. Thanks for putting up with me during the last 30 columns, and for your comments -both good and bad. Hopefully, it has been as en­joyable for you as it has been for me. 
In the meantime, good luck on finals. For the seniors, good luck in life, and for the rest of you, have a good summer. God and my editor willing, I'll see you next fall. Until then, it seems appropriate to say "Goodbye (again) everybody!" 
.........---~~--~~-------------------------­The Observer Tuesday, April 30, 1985 -page 12 
Lacrosse figures to become even more popular 
"/bar'e no idea bow the sport isplayedandso I have no interest." "I'd ner•er beard ofit until/came to Notre Dame. It sort ofseems like girls'field hockey." ''/ think it looks pretty kinky the way those guys run around u>itb those slicks." "I'd tzer'er beard ofitbefore, butI'm trying to learn bow to play it. I tbitzk it's thegreatest sport er1er." 
You may have noticed that there is a new activity out on the quads this year. It's lacrosse and, although it may look like a foreign game, it is actually the oldest sport in­digenous to America. In fact, given some time, it just may become one of the big sports in the country. 
For those who have had little exposure to lacrosse, espe­cially Midwesterners, this claim may seem to be slightly off the wall. After all, how can a sport that they've never even seen, let alone understand, come close to enjoying the popularity offootball, basketball, baseball, and hockey? 
The answer is simple. People all over the country, even at Notre Dame, are discovering that lacrosse is a fun sport to watch and a fun sport to play. It is a combination of hockey. football, and basketball spiced up by the unique features of the game like sticks and hard rubber balls. It's been calkd "the fastest game on two feet." Hundreds of thousands of people, most of them from the East Coast, have decided that lacrosse is the ultimate spring sport, and this feeling, which has been spreading for a number of years, has made lacrosse one of the fastest-growing sports in the United States. 
If you want proof, though, that lacrosse is an up-and­coming sport, just look at its growth at Notre Dame, located right in the heart of one of the few parts of the 

Michael Sullivan 
Sports Writer 

country where lacrosse is still considered a French pastry. 
Three years ago, the sport was only played by a varsity team which was in just its second year of existence. The usual crowd for the varsity games was a group of I 0 people who showed up at every game with a cooler and watched their friends play. Outside of Cartier Field, though, there was little hint that lacrosse existed. 
Things have changed over the last few years, however. Not only has the lacrosse team improved a great deal, even winning a Midwest lacrosse championship, but the crowd sizes have increased tremendously. On a nice weekend, more than 200 people will show up. Last Saturday's game against Ohio Wesleyan, for instance, drew about 300 people away from An Tostal events like the mud pits. 
Even more indicative of the increase in lacrosse's popularity is the creation of an interhall lacrosse league. Before last year, the idea ofsuch a league would have been dismissed right away, but interest in the sport has in­creased so fast that 14 men's dorms, comprising about 220 players, are participating in this season's league. Next year should see even more participants. 
As can be seen by the increasing number of people playing lacrosse in the quads, the future of the sport at Notre Dame is very bright. The story is the same with many high schools and colleges around the country. Even in In­diana, one of the last places lacrosse will likely catch on, high school programs appear to be part of the future. Last week, for instance, Culver Academy and Wawa~ee High School played the first high school lacrosse game in state history. 
"One of the marvels oflacrosse is that it ha~ grown even though there is no professional future in it for the players," says Irish lacrosse coach Rich O'Leary. "The players aren't in it for the money. The game is just so much fun to play that it's going to grow whether people go out and watch the games or not." 
But people are going out to watch the games. In certain places in the East, for instance, lacrosse hao; surpassed just about every other sport in popularity. Hot spots such as these are no longer limited to the Long Island and Bal­timore areas, but are now spreading through places like Massachusetts and New York State. Popularity is also growing rapidly on the West Coast. The conservative Mid­west still lags far behind, but even that could change if all the Big Ten schools begin supporting lacrosse programs. 
Obviously, it will take a number of years before lacrosse can rival a sport like hockey, especially since there is no professional league, but the time will come. There are few people who have seen a lacrosse game that didn't like it, and as people grow up on lacrosse, the chances of a pro league with fan support will also increase. 
In the meantime, it might not be a bad idea to give lacrosse a try. As college football, basketball, and ba<;eball continue to become more and more professional, a sport like lacrosse where schools don't need to even use the NCAA maximum number of scholarships to win the na­tional championship could well become the No. I amateur sport in the country. 
Bookstore Basketball not the only athletic competition in An Tostal 
Although it was Bookstore Basket­
ball that captured the campus' atten­
tion during An Tostal, there were 
plenty ofother athletic events to ap­
peal to everyone's interest. The 
competition, which featured 
everything from mud volleyball to 
water polo, began Tuesday and con­
tinued right through to Sunday after­
noon. 
Tuesday's action was highlighted 
by the Golf Tournament held at 
Notre Dame's Burke Memorial Golf 
Course. After the required nine 
holes, two teams finished in a first­
place tie with identical par-36 
scores. They were Pangborn fresh­
men Tom Shallow and Andy Tit­
teron, along with Grace residents 
Sean Everts and Dan McGrath. In­
dividual awards went to Pat Flynn, 
for Longest Drive, and to Titteron, 
for Closest to the Pin. Last, and of 
course, least, the coveted Hoosier 
Award went to the team of Scott 
Flora and Dave Somelopske, who 
finished with an I H-over score of 54 
for nine holes. 
All winners from the GolfTourna­ment, by the way, can claim their prizes in room 339 of Stanford Hall this week. 
On Wednesday, Bookstore Bas­ketball games were complemented by the Slam Dunk Contest. There were two divisions for the event, one on a I 0-foot rim and one on a nine-foot rim. Celebrity judges for the event included football coach Gerry Faust, women's basketball coach Mary DiStanislao, former var­sity players Casey Newell and Dan Duff, student body president Rob Bertino, and ACC fan favorite, Jeff "Wipeout" Anhut. The ever-popular Dave McGuffey was the M.C. for the event. 
The competition on the 10-foot rim came down to a dunk-off bet­ween Irish ba~ketball star Ken Bar· low and Lloyd Constable, a high-jumper for the Notre Dame track team. Constable had some hard luck, missing both his tries in the dunk-off, while Barlow con­verted a crowd-pleasing double­dunk to claim first place. Constable, 
along with Pete Hebert, finished as 
runners-up to Barlow. 
In the nine-foot competition, Mike Haywood, a cornerback on the Irish football team, took first place. Joe Howard, a former teammate of Haywood's, claimed one runner-up spot, as did Mike Westhoven and David Shine, who's use of smoke bombs on his sneakers turned out to be a real crowd-plea~er. 
The Canoe Races were the biggest athletic event on Thursday. Held at Lake Marion, these races featured 30 two-person teams competing in both the men's and women's divi­sions. In the men's division, Paddling Brajhols, with Stanford freshmen Ken Asson and John Sheehy, took first-place. In the women's competi­tion, Yellow Submarine, with LeMans residents Cindy Minot and Rose Drake, claimed top honors. The races inclu9ed the added twist that teams in the men's division were required to switch places in the canoe during the race, while the women's teams had to start each race backwards. 
On Saturday morning at 9:30, the strong of will competed in the Han­gover 5K race. Bob Hosbach had the fastest time for the event, finishing in 16:54.Jim Conway's 17:03 wa~ good for second place. The top women's times were turned in by the Moleski sisters, Mary Ellen and Patti, who finished in 19:19 and 19:21, respectively. T-shirts were awarded to the first .five finishers in each category. 
Later that afternoon, the An Tostal spotlight shifted to the mud pits, where the Chariot Races were held. The men's division had 13 dorms competing in four heats. In Heat 1, Carroll won out over Holy Cross, Zahm, and Cavanaugh. In the second heat, Off-Campus defeated Fisher and Pangborn. In Heat 3, St. Ed's was a winner over Flanner and Morris­sey. In the fourth heat, Sorin emerged victorious over Dillon and Alumni. Carroll and St. Ed's won their semi-final races and gained the right to square offfor the champion­ship, where St. Ed's came out on top. 
'i11ree dorms competed in the women's division, Pasquerilla East, 

~March of Dimes 
~ --iiBIRTH DEFECIS FOUNDATION-illil 
Pasquerilla West, and Badin. Pasquerrilla East took first place over its campus rivals. 
The action in the mud continued with the Mud Volleyball Tourna­ment finals on Saturday afternoon. Seven-player teams had been bat­tling for the past week to reach the mud pits on An Tostal Saturday. Ear­lier on Saturday, Hit Us Harder had advanced to the championship by beating Woody's Team in the semi­finals, while Land Crabs downed Wicked Nick and the Spikes to reach the final game. 
In the best-of-three champioship playoff, Hit Us Harder, captained by Notre Dame volleyball star Josie Maternowski, beat Land Crabs in two straight games. In Game 1, Hit Us Harder won by a close 1 5-13 score, but in the second game the winners poured it on to take the title in convincing fashion, 1 5-1. 
Later on Saturday afternoon, the center of attention was the Rockne Pool, where the finals of the three­week, 64-team Water Polo Tourna­ment were held. Shots and Suds, the team which lost in the tournament finals last year, downed We like It Wet, 11-A, to take the tourney title this year. Junior Lisa Turecek, the captain of the winning team, finished as the leading scorer in the tournament. Turecek got plenty of help from teammates John Coffey, Rip Ewell, and Greg Nicholas. We like It Wet was paced by water polo team member Tom O'Reilly and var­sity basketball player Tim Kempton, 
who  handled  the  goal-tending  
chores for the team  in the cham­ 
pionship game.  


Baseball standings 
NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Ealt Ealt 
w L Pet. GB w L Chicago 11 6 .647 -Detroot 11 6 New York 11 6 .647 -Toronto 12 7 Montreal 12 7 .632 · Battimore 11 7 Philadelphia 7 11 .389 4.5 Boston 9 10 St. Louis 7 11 .389 4.5 Milwaukee 8 10 Pittsburgh 12 .294 6 Cleveland 7 12 
Weot New York 6 11 San Diego 10 8 .556 Weot Los Angeles 11 9 .550 -California 13 7 Cincinnati 10 9 .526 .5 Ch<cago 9 7 Houston 10 9 .526 . 5 Kansas City 10 8 Atlanta 8 10 .444 2 Minnesota 10 9 San Francisco 7 11 .389 3 Oakland 9 11 
Seattle 8 12 Yeoterd1y'1 Reoulto Texas 6 12 Philadelphia 3, Montrea/2, 10 <nnings 
Yeoterd1y'o Reoulto 
Texas 7, New York 5 
Kansas City 3, Cleveland 2 
Califorma 7, Boston 6 
Toronto 2, Oakland 1 
Seattle 9. Milwaukee 7 
Pet.  GB  
.647  
.631  
.611  .5  
.474  3  
444  3.5  
.368  5  
.353  5  
.650  
.563  2  
.556  2  
.526  2.5  
450  4  
.400  5  
.333  6  


College of Science 
Distiagu.isbed Scholar Leclun Series Pnseals 
Professor mario Borelli 
~n cpU IDlm{l[!lCliTilmMm!J 
·computers ill Sc:imu:e. Builless aud Sacietg: 
Uses and Bbuses:. 
CliP 
Tuudau. Bpril 30. 1985 
o:ooP.m. 
ANNOUNCING OUR NEW OFFICE 
1341 PORTAGE AVENUE 
Martin's Shopping Center 

20% off glasses with student I.D. 
'Professional Vision 
ASSOCIATES Dr. Ronald L Snyder Dr. Patrick Albert 1135 N. IIOIMOOCI 1341 Portage 4112 w........ 277-1111 234-2-217-5141 North o1 Mc:Ooneld'a Martin's Shopping Ctr. Belleville' Shopping Ctr. 
Dr. Jeffrey Coppes 132E.I...._. 
211-7171 
Colony Cleaners Bldg. 
The Observer Tuesday, April 30, 1985 -page 13 

Bill Courtney of the Notre Dame men's track event, his teammates fared much better in several team took a dive in thepool during the3,000-meter other events. Mike Szymanski details the action to 
steeplechase competition at the Drake Relays this the right. u•eekend. Although Courtney finished last in the 
The Department of Economics, Notre Dame proudly presents its 1984-85 speaker series: 
Can Government Programs Reduce Poverty? 
Diana Pearce 
Director of Research, Center for National Policy Review Catholic University Law School 
"Farewell to Alms" 
Thursday, May 2, 7:30p.m. Memorial Library Auditorium 
For further information, contact Economics Dept. University ofNotre Dame, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
.. w .. 
"' 

The Student Activities Board "The Leader in Entertainment" 
presents 

SHADOW FAX 
The Cutting Edge ofJazz 
Tuesday, Apri130 7 pm at Washington Hall 
-~ 

Tickets on sale at the Record Store and at the door. Student Activities Board All tickets $8.50 
Display of consistency 
at Drake Relays is a .good sign for ND track 
By MIKE SZ\'MANSKI 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame men's track team's consistently fine perfor­mances at the Drake Relays last weekend reflect a bright future since only one senior will leave the 4xI600-meter and 4x800-meter relays at the end of the season. 
The 4x1600 relay team, which placed seventh at Drake, was composed of senior Tim Cannon ( 4 minutes, 9 seconds), and freshmen Dan Garrett ( 4: I 1 ), Rick Mulvey 
( 4:12 ), and Paul Duvair ( 4:24 ). 
The 4x800 relay unit, meanwhile, placed fourth and set a school record of 7:20.1. Junior John McNelis ( 1:50.3), sophomore Robert Nobles ( 1:48), freshman Nick Sparks ( 1:51 ), and sophomore Jeff VanWie ( 1:49.8) compose that relay team which, incidentally, is currently ranked seventh in the na­tion. 
Notre Dame long jumper James Patterson continued his drive to an NCAA-qualifying spot in his specialty as he placed second (25 feet, 4 1/4 inches) for the second year in a row at Drake. Patterson is only inches short from the NCAA meet standard. 
The distance-medley team placed 

TRANSFER ORIENTATION 
There will be a mandatory meeting for all those still interested in being on the 1985 commitee. April30 at 7 p.m. New Orleans Room LaFortune 
Past Transfers encouraged to attend 
Jt .................., 
:• Saint Mary's •+ 
f'GRIPE NIGHT'~ : TONIGHT : 
league would have one in 1986. ABC has televised USFL games on Sun­days the past three years and has an option on a fourth -but has insisted 
: 7:00-9:00 pm • 
. :
it would not pick up that option if
+ St. Mary's Student Government is + the USFL switched from its spring­
summer schedule.
+ sponsoring a Gripe Night. Call us up + 
i 
and tell us what is on your mind. How :. are we doing? Let us know!! 
284-2050 284-2053 
t 
284-2051 284-2054 284-2052 284-2060 

....................i 
seventh in the meet, as Van Wie 
(2:59) ran the 1200 leg, Van Pearcy 
( 4 7.0 ), the 400, Nobles ( 1 :49 ), the 800, and Cannon ( 4: 12), the 1600. The mile-relay team recorded a 
3:09.91 with Nobles ( 47.8), Dan Shannon ( 46.0), Pearcy ( 4 7.3 ), and McNelis ( 47.8) all competing well. 
Shannon ran his fastest open 400­meters of the outdoor season to place seventh with a time of 46.81.. McNelis, meanwhile, placed sixth in the open 800 by running in 1 :50.41.. 
In the field, meanwhile, Brian Driscoll tossed the javelin 20l feet ­the first 200 foot throw for a Notre Dame athlete since I964. 
That sight especially pleased coach Joe Piane, although he was happy with many more ofthe perfor­mances by his young squad as well. 
"Drake was a very positive meet," said Piane. "The performances of these freshmen is very encouraging. We only lose one man out of the dis­tance relays, not to mention that we have a top prospect in Ron Markezich coming here next year and Jim Tyler returning in the 1600." 
High school senior Markezich, the 
New York State indoor-mile champ 
and Millrose Games mile champ, has 
committed to Notre Dame. 
USFLwill move to Fall in '86 season 
Associated Press 
TEANECK, N.J.-The United States 
Football League reaffirmed yester­
day its decision to switch to a fall 
schedule in 1986, but it will do s.o 
without the Tampa Bay Bandits. 
John Bassett, the owner of the 
Bandits, one of the USFL's strong 
franchises, voted against the change 
and said he would pull his team out 
of the league and would form anot­
her spring-summer league. 
Also yesterday, the league, now in 
its third year, voted to keep the 
financially troubled Los Angeles 
Express franchise afloat for the rest 
of this year. USFL commissioner 
Harry Usher also said after the 
owners ended their meeting that 
Chicago, which had a franchise for 
the league's first two years, will 
rejoin it in 1986. 
Usher said the vote to switch to 
the fall was 13-2, with Bassett and 
Doug Spedding, owner of the Den­
ver Gold, opposing it. He said Sped­
ding had not yet decided whether to 
remain in the league or to possibly 
join Bassett's venture. Although 
there are presently only 14 teams in 
the league, there was a total of 1 5 
votes because Chicago was given a 
vote. 
The commissioner said the deci­
sion to switch was made despite the 
lack ofa network television contract 
and he admitted it was unlikely the 
ESPN, a cable television network, also televises USFL games and is ex­pected to continue to do so. Usher said his league had other plans in the works for television coverage, but he would not say what they entailed. 
An ABC spokesman reiterated the network's previous decision con­cerning its TV plans if the USFL switched seasons. 
"We're still reaffirming that," said the spokesman. "We have no plans to televise their games." 
,..--------------------~-----------~~--~--------·---~ ---­
The Observer Tuesday, April 30, 1985 page 14 

Senior Lisa LaFratta ofthe Notre Dame women's to hercollegiate career next week in theNG4A Divi­tennis team, who compiled a 17-4 record this sion II tournament. Mary Seiger profiles LaFratta spring as the squad's No.] singles player and as a in herstory below. partner on the No.2 doubles team, will bid farewell 
Senior will end career next week 
Tennis team will miss LaFratta 
By MARY SIEGER  Virginia native. "It never bothered  capture the Division II title before  
Sports Writer  me  as  long  as  Mary  and  Susie  the team is promoted to the NCAA  
(Panther)  were  winning.  If they  Division I title next year, l.afratta  
Shakespeare was right · parting is  weren't, then I'd want to move up."  believes winning the national title  
such sweet sorrow.  Serving as co-captain for the past  will be the fondest memory of her  

And senior Usa LaFratta's farewell two seasons and as a Resident Assis­
performance with the Notre Dame tant in Lewis Hall this year, l.afratta 
women's tennis team next week at has earned the respect of her team 
the NCAA Division II National and dormmates. In the past four 
Championship Tournament will be a years, the S-foot, 2-inch biology 
bittersweet moment for the co­major has maintained an extremely 
captain and her teammates. active schedule, juggling free time 
"We'll miss her next year because among her tennis and RA respon­she is a big asset to the team," says siblities as well as with her fiancee Irish head coach Sharon Petro. whom she looks to for encourage­"She's not selfish and is interested in ment throughout the season. individuals and the team, which are During her freshman year, good qualities for a captain." l.afratta endured tendonitis in both 
like most graduating seniors, feet, preventing her from playing to l.aFratta is looking forward to tack· her potential. While she never com­ling new challenges next year, but is pletely recovered from the injury, apprehensive about leaving friends she managed to continue training behind. While she plans to compete and her career. in Virginia tournaments as she "It hurt my doubles game because teaches and coaches tennis over the I stopped playing, which hurt my summer, I.aFratta doubts the confidence because I thought I rigorous schedule at the Medical wasn't a good doubles player," College ofVirginia Pharmacy School recalls LaFratta. "I was never injured will leave her much time to compete until I came to college." in the fall. "She has been outstanding both 
"I'll miss the girls on the team be­years as co-captain," says Petro. "She cause we spend a lot of time toget· has been through a lot during her her," she says. 'Til especially miss career and there is hardly anything the seniors because we spent four she hasn't experienced, so she can years together." give good advice to her teammates." 
I.afratta tallied an impressive 17-4 After completing four successful record playing at number three years at Douglas Freeman High singles and number two doubles this School, LaFratta turned down a spring. Combined with her fall cam­generous scholarship to Boston Col· paign, LaFratta's final season with lege to play for the Irish. Since Notre the Irish will be her most successful Dame is a family affair in the l.afratta in her four years at Notre Dame. household, with her father and two 
"lbe biggest change in her game brothers as Notre Dame graduates, came this year," explains Petro. "She the decision was fairly easy for her. has worked on her net game and im­"I've always wanted to come to proved her doubles. Now she's not Notre Dame," she says. "And I'd do it afraid to come to the net in singles." over again if I had to." 
"lbere is more variety in my game For next week's tournament, now," says l.aFratta. "I'm not just l.aFratta plans to focus on building standing on the baseline anymore." her confidence and concentration 
Junior Mary Colligan replaced while working on her doubles play l.aFratta at the number-two singles with her partner Mary CoUigan. slot at the beginning of the year. Last While l.afratta knows the Irish must year, LaFratta completed the season play their best tennis ofthe season to with a 26-16 record but was still win the National Championship, she content to play in the number-three suspects the Irish could claim the singles spot this year. title with strong finishes in the 
"It's nice to win more often, but doubles competition. , it's never fun to take a step down in Since next week's tournament the ladder," admits the Richmond, will be the last chance for the Irish to 
50th NFL draft won't have immediate impact 
Associated Press gamble on the demise of the shaky 
liSFL. 
NEW YORK · 'The National Foot· "I don't think we'll see six players ball League holds its SOth college out of this draft in the Pro Bowl in a draft today. But few teams, if any, ex­couple of years like we did with the 
pect to come up with a player who '83 draft, the Marino and Dickerson will make an immediate impact on year," said Gil Brandt, the director of the league. personnel for the Dallas Cowboys. "I 
Unlike recent drafts that have think it's a deep draft -there are brought the likes ofDan Marino, Eric quite a few good players, but not Dickerson and Lawrence Taylor to many great ones." 
the NFL, there isn't likely to be 
anyone in this crop who will es· Thus, teams may find bargains as tablish himself immediately as an the draft winds through the middle All-Pro. and later rounds. That's particularly 
It is a draft deepest in non-glamor true because few highly rated positions · offensive and defensive players were siphoned off this line. The first player chosen will be season by the liSFL, which last year 
defensive end Bruce Smith of Vir· signed close to a third ofthe top 100. ginia Tech, who already has been signed by Buffalo; the third will be With Commissioner Pete Rozelle 
defensive lineman Ray Childress of ruling that quarterback Bernie Kosar Texas A&M; probably no more than of Miami can opt for a supplemental four running backs will go on the draft in which he will be picked by first round, and, unless there's a the Cleveland Browns, the first and 
huge surprise, no quarterbacks. third picks are set. 
The biggest name available is Buffalo has Smith and Houston Herschel Walker, the 1982 Heisman will take Childress, whom the Trophy winner, who now plays for Vikings agreed not to take in the 
the New Jersey Generals of the trade in which they flip-flopped the United States Football League. The second and third picks with Min­expectation is that Walker, who lost nesota to give the Vikings a shot at a year of draft eligiblity for leaving Kosar. college · the University of Georgia · The other two members ofthe top after his junior year. will go some­four are likely to be Miami wide 
where between the second and receiver Eddie Brown and Pit­
fourth rounds to a team willing to tsburgh offensive tackle Bill Fralic. 
AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY~~ 

Bunek joins S-9 Diondra Toney of Chicago, who also is rated among the top 2S high school players in the 
Bunek 
continuedfrom page 16 

country, and S-1 0 Lisa Kuhns of Ft. have gone to l!SC based on it~ past national championships, but Walton Beach, Fla., in signing with decided that our chance for one in Notre Dame for the upcoming the future might be good." season. 

~c:tcJl.at~----------------------------------------T-u-es_d_a_r,_A_p_ril_.-3-0,_1_9_s_s
___p_ag_e_1__5 
r.r.....er,.....er....o--.....er....cccoooooc::....oc:o"'.r.....er....o--.r.r~~~~-".,0000000000000 
~ RECORDSALE s Wanted••• 
~ What did you miss in '85? i Business Manager
* 

for
~ Get your music collection ready for ~ § ~ summer! lo Cultural Arts Commission
§ ~ All single albums and tapes in stock s8 (1985-86)
IRock du~~~~!~~S!d Tapes II * lfin?e~:~~;~~:e:.~~~~!he2~~~~274
23977 7
K
5
~~~!:~~~~ ~~~oc~~oc~~oo~~~o~-~ ~~oc~~oc~~o 
Bloom County 
llH-me 1/lf? / 17Jf111Y 
-rHe II!I? SMelts so... so 
AIRY/ 

Zeto 
ISN'T TH€ GI?ASS (..(XJKING 
t.OV6! IM IN 

fSPee/IIU.Y t.OV€tY 17Jf'IIY ? WHIIr'S /..OVe/ IT 
I!Nf? me KOCKs .1... so... 
WKON& CHIINGeS CWe~ 


The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Actress 
Celeste 5 Luggage 9 A son of Noah 
12 Nautical 
position 13 Editing mark 14 Hereditary 
element 
15 Primitive trophy collec· tor 
17 Pro­18 Directives 19 Sultan of 
Egypt 21 "My Name Is Asher-" 22 Sell directly to consumer 23 Napoleon exile 
island 27 Ford or Pyle 29 Listens to 30 Gr. letter 32 Ship-shaped 
clock 34 Does wrong 35 Give back 
money 36 Machu Picchu 
land 37 In addition 38 Buttes 39 Singer Bobby 40 Sand bar 42 Took a break 44 Join up 46 Army program 
letters 47 Most tidy 49 Melodious 52 Alan or Robert 53 Sell-willed 56 Ooze 57 Leave out a 
syllable 58 Zone 59 Knightor 
Lewis 60 Rue-Paix 61 Fat 
DOWN 1 Exclamation 2 Bread spread 

©1985 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 4/30/85 All Rights Reserved 
Monday's Solution 
3 Shakespearean  
king  
4 Busybodies  
5 Forbids  
6 Skill  
7 Ninnies  
8 Military  
maneuvering  
9 Stars  
10 Against  
11 Intend  
13 Arc  
14 Cereal seeds  
16 Bounders  
20 Zhivago's love  
22 Castle parapet  
23 Mets' stadium  
24 Sea birds  
25 Stubborn  
26 Certain votes  4/30/85  
28 Uncanny 31 Comfort  41 Ready  49  Egyptian  
33 Stock of money  43 Anathema  lizard  
35 Enjoyed  45 Gravestone  so  Rail bird  
36 Rural  47 Caricaturist  51 Lulu  
38 Stag  Thomas  54  Feel sick  
39 Give up  48 Robert­ 55 Roam  


Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

so roes UXJKI 
PRINKING 1/SPHI/t.T/ 
Kevin Walsh 

''You idiot! I said get the room freshener! 
Campus 

•12 
p.m. -Lecture, "Perspectives on the Education Policy," The Honorable William Bennett, Secretary of Education, Washington D.C., Law School Student Lounge. 

•1
:30 p.m. -Baseball, ND vs. Lewis, jake Kline Field. 

•2:45-3:45p.m.-Lecture, 
"Long Term Care Dilemmas," Dr. Brian Hofland, Retirement Research Foundation, Room 124 Haggar Hall. 

•4 
p.m. NROTC Spring Awards Ceremony, Library Auditorium. 

•4:30 
p.m. -Seminar, "Macrophyte Com­munity Patterns: just How Important Is Inter­specific Competition?" Nancy McCreary, ND, Galvin Auditorium. 

•6:30 
p.m. -Meeting, Jerusalem: Make It Yours For Fall, Room 242 O'Shaughnessy. 

•7 
& 9:30p.m.-Film, "East of Eden," Carroll Hall (SMC), Sponsored by SMC Student Acitivities Board. 

•
7 p.m. -Organizational Meeting, Transfer Orientation Committee, New Orleans Room, LaFortune, All Interested Are Welcome. 


TV Tonight 
6:00p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 
7:00p.m. 16 TheA-Team 22 The Lucie Arnaz Show 28 Three's A Crowd 

7:30p.m. 22 Thejelfersons 28 Foul-Ups, Bleeps & Blunders 
8:00p.m. 16 Riptide 22 Movie 28 Who's The Boss? 34 Nova 
8:30p.m. 28 Hail To The Chief 

That's the insecticide!" 
•7 
p.m. -Shadow Fax Jazz Concert, Washington Hall, Sponsored by Student Ac­tivities Board, $8.50. 

•7:30 
p.m. -Tuesday Night Film Series, "Le Plaisir," Annenberg Auditorium. 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Computers in Science, Business and Society: Uses and Abuses," Prof. Mario Borelli, ND, Library Auditorium. 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Spaghetti/Shells w/ Meat Sauce Turkey Divan Spinach Quiche 
Saint Mary's Baked Ham Chinese Pepper Beef French Bread Pizza Broccoli Souftle 
9:00p.m.  16  Remington Steele  
28  MacGruder & Loud  
34  Great Railway journeys  
!O:OOp.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  jean Shepherd's America  
10:30 p.m.  16  Tonight Show  
22  Fall Guy/Columbo  
28  ABC News Nightline  
34  The Sporting Ufe  
11:00 a.m.  28  Love Connection  
34  Body Electric  
11:30 a.m.  16  Late Night With David Letterman  
28  Africa: Continent in Crisis  
34  Movie -Kipps  
12:30 a.m.  16  Allin The Family  
1:00 a.m.  22  Nightwatch  

-· -­
Tuesday, April 30, 1985 -page 16
S~orts 
Heidi Bunek, one of nation's top women's players, signs with ND 
ByJEFF BLUMB In addition to being Wisconsin's Sports Editor Miss Basketball, Bunek was named to virtually every high school all­
Heidi Bunek, considered by many America team. She was a first-team to be the best women's high school selection of Parade (for the second basketball player in the country, consecutive year), USA Today, gave the Notre Dame women's Adidas and Women's Court program a boost yesterday when she Magazine. Both the Associated Press signed the national letter-of-intent and United Press International also to play for the Irish beginning next selected her as Wisconsin player of season. the year. 
A 6-4, UiO-pound, post player, Bunek, who holds 14 school Bunek led Milwaukee's Pius XI High records at Pius XI, including the School to an overall record of 96-2 career mark of I ,65 7 points and the and four straight private school Divi­single-game scoring mark of 42 sion I A state championships in her points, plans to major in com­prep career. '!be Popes were 24-1 munications at Notre Uame and and ranked 12th in the final USA liked the program's relationship Today Super 2 5 poll this past season, withWNDU. as Bunek averaged 24.8 points and Envisioned as a forward by DiS­10 rebounds per game. tanislao, many expect her to step 
"Heidi's decision means that right in and start. Notre Dame will have one ofthe top, "Heidi will fit in very well," the if not the top, freshman class in the fifth-year Irish coach said. "She's a nation next season," said excited great talent and a very hard worker. Irish coach Mary DiStanislao. "I In fact, she is one of the most well­would have to say that Heidi is the conditioned and disciplined players best high school player in the nation. that I have ever seen. Heidi works Needless to say, I'm very, very happy hard every day, and it shows." with her choice." lbe signing of Bunek is of great 
Bunek announced her decision at importance to the growth of the a late-morning press conference in Notre Dame women's program. Milwaukee. Her final choice had "This shows there are kids listen­come down to one between Notre ing to what we have to offer," added Dame and Southern Cal. DiStanislao, "and that a lot ofpeople 
"I wanted to go to a school where are becoming aware of Notre Dame I could help put the program into in terms of women's basketball. the Top 20," Bunek said. "One ofthe Heidi visited and saw the talent level Freshman Dan Walsh of the Notre Dame men's Irish, who lost to Kalamazoo, 6-3, will try again main factors was that my parent.'> and of the kids we have here. She could tennis team, shoum here returning a seroe against tomorrow as they play a doubleheader at Purdue. friends would be close enough to DePaul, saw his four-match winning streak come Mike Carney reviews the weekend action in his come see my games." see BUNEK, page 14 to an end Sunday against Kalamazoo College. The story below. 

Men's tennis team falls to Hornets of Kalamazoo 
By MIKE CARNEY 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame men's tennis team lost another tough match yes­terday as it bowed to the Hornets of Kalamazoo College, 6-3. The loss dropped the Irish spring record to 14-11. 
The match began on a high note for the Irish a.'> they won three of the first four singles matches. Senior Mike Gibbons used excellent lobs and pa.-;sing shots to defeat Alex Pal­ladino of Kalamazoo, 6-2, 7-6 at the No. 2 singles position to start the rally. 
Then, at the No. 5 spot, Tom Grier put away Jack Hosner of Kalamazoo, 7-6, 7-5 to set up No.6 Paul Daggs, who outlasted the Hornets' Butch Gebhardt, 6-2,4-6, 6-3 to give the Irish a 3-1 advantage. 
However, from that point onward, it was all downhill. Dave Obert played a marathon match with Kalamazoo's Phil Harrington, but came up on the short end of a 7-6, 6-7, 6-4 score. Freshman Dan Walsh, meanwhile, saw his four-match win­ning streak snapped as he dropped a tough three-set decision. 
"We really had a good chance to wrap up the match in the singles play," noted Irish coach Tom Fallon. "But we lost two very tough matches that could have gone either way. 
Still, the Irish were in the match at 3-3 and only needed the doubles teams to come through. 
"Doubles has been a problem area for us all year," admitted Fallon. "We've been trying to come up with the best combinations and some days they gel and other days they don't." 

Unfortunately, yesterday was one of the days when the doubles teams did not play well enough together as they lost all three doubles matches. Although competitive in all three matches, the Irish players just could not come up with the big points. 
"Kalamazoo is a tough team with a lot of depth, which they showed in the doubles matches," added Fallon. "Still, I think we're starting to play better against the tougher teams. 
Hopefully, the Irish can regain their stride tomorrow as they travel to Purdue to play a doubleheader with Purdue and Indiana State. 
The Irish have had trouble this year with the Big Ten teams and Purdue should be no exception. 
"Purdue has a lot of good talent and excellent facilities," says Fallon. "Tomorrow's match will be another close one." 
It's time for the 2nd annual ''Chuckie'' awards 
Hello again, everybody' 

A.'i the year comes to a close in many areas of life, it is a time for awards. '!be cinema gives out its Oscar, Broadway has the Tony, television ha.'i the Emmy, and now the Notre Dame athletic community has its own awards. Welcome, ladies and gentlemen, to the second annual "Chuckie" award'>! 
As was the case with la.'it year's ceremony, the audience is reminded that some of these are to be taken seriously and some tongue-in-cheek. While we can't afford to give out plaques or trophies to the winners, they can have the pride of knowing they emerged from a distinguished class of peers to receive these honors. One more word of cau­tion before we begin the proceedings-this is an exhibition, not a competition. Please, no wagering. 
Best Perfonnance by a Male Athlete -The nominees are: Brent Chapman, hockey -Despite the unfortunate circumstances surrounding the Irish hockey program the last two years, Chapman stayed at Notre Dame and ex­celled this year. He helped carry the team a.s a co-captain who scored 36 goals with 27 assists. 
james Patterson, track -The mainstay of the Irish track team, the Irish captain became the first Notre Dame athlete to long jump over 25 feet and triple jump over 50 feet, while also qualifying for the NCAA indoor meet. 
Allen PinkettJootball -Despite a disappointing year for the football team, the Sterling, Va. junior posted some in­credible numbers. Pinkett picked up 1, I05 yards, scored 

Chuck Freeby 
Irish Items 

18 touchdowns and broke more records than Tommy Shaw will ever make. David Rivers, baske/l)a/1 -The stats on Rivers are good 
( 15.8 ppg, 127 a.'isists), but the contribution he made doesn't show up in the box score. Rivers made the south dome the place to be on winter nights with his dazzling displays carrying the Irish to the NCAA. 
And the winner is...James Patterson. Best P,erfonnance by a Female Athlete -May I have the envelope, please. Let's look at the nominees, shall we. 
Trena Keys, basketball -For two years, we had heard that Keys was a franchise player, and this year she lived up to the billing. The North Star Conference player of the year averaged 17.2 points a game to pace the Irish. 
Lisa LaFratta, tennis -Not a bad year for the academic all-america nominee. All she has done is go 17-4 in singles play and 1 7-4 with Mary Colligan in doubles, while keeping the Irish in the hunt for a national championship. 
Mary McLaughlin, volleyball -Another all-North Star Conference selection, Mclaughlin showed a lot of ver­satility for coach Art Lambert's spikers. Her all-star selec­tion is made even more impressive in that last season was her first ever at the setter position. 
Molly Sullivan, fencing -A freshman who stepped in and did it all for coach Mike DeCicco. She was a second­team All-America selection, while placingftfth in the NCAA tournament. 
And the winner is... Trena Keys. 
Best Team... This is similar to the category for Best Picture at the Oscars, except much more prestigious. The nominees are... 
Cross Country -Just one heckuva job by Joe Piane and the Irish harriers who surprised everybody except them­selves by qualifying for the NCAA tournament for the first time since the I960s. 
Fencing -One point separated the Irish from a national championship, but there wa.~ no doubt that the Irish belonged in the higher echelons of the fencing world. 
Women's Basketball-Given up for dead by many people early in the season, the Irish showed the scrappiness that Coach Mary D's teams are known for in claiming their first NSC championship. 
Women's Tennis -Sharon Petro just keeps rolling out solid teams, and this one is no exception. To say the Irish are on the verge ofa national championship is a lot closer to the truth than saying Tommy Shaw is on the verge of greatness. 
see AWARDS, page 11 



