Jazz Festival-page 6 .,. 
VQLXIX, NO. 125 FRIDAY, APRIL 12, 1985 

Campus painted red for ball 
DoiDinican conference to be attended by Healy and ND adiDinistators 
By MIRIAM HILL  portunity for others to learn from  
Copy Editor  our experience and an opportunity  
to get to know our counterparts at  
A trip to the Dominican Republic  the other institutions.  
for a conference titled "The Expec­ "We hope to make contact with  
tations of Youth and the Catholic  institutions in the rest of the world,  
University" will provide a much­ especially the Third World. You see,  
needed break from a long South  it's not just the conference, it's who  
Bend summer for Student Body  you meet and talk to at the dinner  
President Bill Healy.  table," he said.  
Healy will accompany Father  He added, "The world is a much  
Theodore Hesburgh, University  smaller place than we think and  
president, Provost Timothy  we've got to participate in it this  
O'Meara, and Michael Loux, dean of  way. It's good for us and good for our  
the College of Arts and Letters, to  students in that without such ex­ 
the conference, sponsored by the In­ changes we would be insular."  
ternational Federation of Catholic  O'Meara said the conference  
Universities.  presents an unusual opportunity for  
Because the theme of the confer­ Healy. "At his age, as a person, the  
ence speaks directly to students  benefits are going to be the greatest  
today, the University invited a stu­ of all because he's young."  
dent to attend -something it never  Healy, who will spend the sum­ 
has done before. In past years, Hes­ mer at Notre Dame working with  
burgh and one other University offi­ Student Body Vice President Duane  
cial have attended the conferences,  Lawrence, said he was surprised  
which are held every four years.  when O'Meara asked him to attend  
The conference will take place at  the conference. "I was thrilled when  
Universidad Catholic Madra y  they invited me, although a bit taken  
Maestra in Santo Domingo from Aug.  aback. I didn't give an immediate an­ 
5 to9.  swer because I was sort of tongue­ 
A tentative schedule of events in­ tied.  
cludes speeches, panel discussions  "I think it shows respect for the  
and workshops on such topics as:  student body on the part of the ad­ 
"Students in 1985: The Challenge of  ministration that they would ask a  
Encounters between Faith and Cul­ student to this apparently pres­ 
tural Diversity," "The University as a  tigious assembly," Healy said.  
Place Where the Gospel is Lived,"  Healy said he plans to take a  
and "The Catholic University Pre­ "crash-course" in conversational  
paring Youth for the Year 2000."  Spanish this summer so he will be  
The speeches and panel discus­ able to understand people at the  
sions will be presented with  conference.  
simultaneous translation, while the  He said he was somewhat nervous  
workshops will be offered in En­ about spending five days with Hes­ 
glish, French, and Spanish.  burgh, but added, "Traveling with  
The purpose ofattending the con­ the man will be so interesting be­ 
ference, said O'Meara, "is to learn  cause he's got so much insight into  
from the other schools there and to  the things around you. It's almost  
reflect upon and contribute to the  like having the best tour guide possi­ 
theme of the conference. It's an op­ ble." - 

Passing on a tradition 
A Notre Dame student passes on the tradition ofFrisbee throw­ing to a youngster on campus. The we/came appearance ofthe sun yesterday brought many students onto the quads. The abnonnally grecll weather should continuefor the nextfew days, giving more excuses to get awayfrom the books for awhile and enjoy the great outdoors. 
By MARK E. WINTERS 
News Staff 
Partygoers at the·Beaux Arts Ball will have the chance to "paint the town red" tonight, but they almost lost that chance earlier this week when publicity for the ball included painting the campus red. 
The ball was almost cancelled when publi<;ity measures such as painting sidewalks and covering statues with red plastic were viewed as extreme by the administration, according tojoseph Pitchford, presi­dent of the Notre Dame chapter of the American Institute of Architec­ture. 
Some publicity measures "were too loud, and smacked ofvandalism" in the opinion of the administration, Pitchford said. ' 
Members of the ball committee met with john Goldrick, dean ofstu­dents, earlier this week to discuss the publicity problem, Pitchford said. 
The committee took responsibil­ity for the publicity, he said, al­though it had not sanctioned some of the controversial methods. 
Goldrick could not be reached for comment. 
. The ball will be held tonight in the Architecture Building, and will feature the new wave group "Cause for Passion," whose sound resembles the Human League. 
Pitchford said the event is unique because it is the only party held in an academic building. "It's a chance to open up one of the nicest buildings on campus to the students," he said. 

Pitchford said he hoped the ball would "lead the charge to having fun without alcohol." Problems last year with alcohol being sneaked into the ball resulted in the committee being put on probation, he said. 
This year security will be on hand to insure that the alcohol policy is enforced, he said. 
Tickets can be purchased for $5 in advance and 56 at the door. Pitchford said many tickets will probably be sold today. Capacity ticket sale is 300, he said. 
Proceeds from the ball will be used to pay for special architecture events such as the architecture lecture series and field trips during the year. 


Science requirement will not change from two semesters 
Editor's Note: Last spring the Uni­versity Curriculum Committee released a report outlining several major changes in Notre Dame's core curriculum. But for the most part, the committee left alone the two-semester require­ment in natural science. The issue is examined in the following story, part three ofa four-part se­ries focusing on the committee's report. 
By MARKS. PANKOWSKI 
Copy Editor 
As luck would have it, he landed on green, and while sipping on a Michelob, he was asked to name the common term for acetyl­salicylic acid. 
"C'mon," he groaned. "Is thii Trivial Pursuit or science class?" 
Fortunately, it was just a board game, but more and more educators across the nation are worried that college graduates in non-technical fields are becoming scientifically illiterate. 
Notre Dame is no exception. But after studying the problem for a year, the ad hoc University Curric­ulum Committee decided not to recommend another course in nat­ural science. 
Instead, the proposed natural science requirement, which will be voted on by the Academic Council on Monday, would re­quire two semesters to be com­pleted by the end of the sophomore year. 
The University's present natural science requirement, normally satisfied by students as freshmen, is also two semesters to be com­pleted by the sophomore year. 
What's the difference? 
"Ifthe proposed natural science requirement is approved, it will remove the restraint on students and will give them more freedom in choosing," said Timothy O'Meara, who as provost is chief academic officer at Notre Dame. "At the present, if you do not take the science requirement in your freshman year, you have to take a foreign language." 
The curriculum committee's proposal, according to O'Meara, would allow freshmen the option of taking an elective instead of a natural science or foreign lan­guage. 

Although the committee's report recommends additional re­quirements in other academic fields, such as in the fine arts, it does not recommend additional requirements in science. This 

~urricu~um

~errev1ew 
move has received mixed reviews among faculty and administrators. 
"I was disappointed that there were not any more science re­quirements added," said Rudolph Bottei, professor and assistant chairman of the chemistry depart­ment. "Two semesters of science has been the requirement for ages. There's been an explosion ofscien­tific and technological knowledge, so an additional requirement in science is not asking too much from the student." 
But Morton Fuchs, professor and chairman of the biology and microbiology department, disagreed. 
"Forcing non-science majors to take a second year of science doesn't accomplish much. I think it's important that non-science majors take more (than the two re­quired semesters), but I think it's .;:ounter-productive to stuff it down their throats. 
"I think if you have to force people to take courses above and beyond a certain minimum that they don't want to take, it hurts the learning process," said Fuchs. "If you're not interested in a course you're not going to learn from it." 
But the committee's natural sci­ence recommendation, issued last spring as part of an analysis of the University core curriculum, has been criticized for not going far enough. 
"The world is rapidly changing because of technology," said Mark McCready, a chemical engineering professor. "There are a lot of ethi­cal questions that involve science and many decisions are based on scientific reasoning, but the people making those decisions are politicians and lawyers." 
A quieter issue within the debate focused on one reason the curriculum committee left the sci­ence requirement at two semesters. 
"We are trying to give depart­
ments  and  students  themselves  
more  choice  regarding  what  
would  be  the  most  appropriate  

mix of courses for their educa­tional goals," said George Howard, assistant professor in psychology and a member of the University Curriculum Committee. 
"It is not appropriate for us to decide what should be the average or the best number of science courses but to specify what was the absolute minimum for some­one to have a liberal education," said Howard. 
-------~~­

The Observer 
Friday, April 12, 1985 -page 2 




In Brief 
The artist-in-residence at Saint Mary's, Mark Towner, will be showing an exhibition of his work from today through May 12, at the Photographers' Collective. An opening reception will be held tonight from 7 to 9 in the gallery. Towner, who currently teaches photography at Saint Mary's, received his master's degree in Fine Arts from Cranbrook Academy ofArt. He has been exhibiting his photography across the country for eight years. The Photographers' Collective is a cooperative gallery of photogra· phy located in the Colfax Cultural Center, 914 lincolnway West.­
The Obseroer 

A senior party at Jeremiah Sweeney's will be held tonight from 4 until 7. Tomorrow night a Notre Dame-Saint Mary's senior party at Haggar College Center will be held from 9 until 1. 21 I D's are required for both events. -The Obseroer 
A ban on"punk"hairstyles,studded bracelets 
and tattered clothing was lifted by officials at Susan B. Anthony Junior High School in Minneapolis on Tuesday. The ban had provoked a demonstration on March 28 during which four students were arrested. More than 600 parents, teachers and students crowded the school auditorium Tuesday night for a meeting in which school administrators backed off and said students can wear just about anything they want as long as it does not disrupt the class­room. -AP 
Stock prices rose for the second straight session yes­terday as interest rates tumbled in the credit markets. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials, up about 8 points at its best level of the session, closed with a 3.75 gain at 1,263.69. The average climbed 
6.08 points on Wednesday. In the credit markets, interest rates on short-term Treasury bills dropped 10 to 20 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point. Prices of long-term government bonds, which move in the opposite direction from interest rates, climbed more than Sl 0 for every S 1,000 in face value. -AP 
Of Interest 
The 27th annual Notre Dame Collegiate Jazz Festival, the largest and longest running festival of its kind, will be held at Stepan Center this weekend. Tickets are S5 for tonight's session, $3 for tomorrow afternoon and $4 for tomorrow night. The festival will begin at 7:30 both nights and at 1 tomorrow afternoon. Tickets are available at the door. -The Obseroer 
The Navy ROTC unit of Notre Dame will be celebrating its annual dining-in ceremony tonight in the Monogram Room ofthe ACC. The catered meal will be followed by a speech by Rear Admiral 
G.M. FurlongJr., deputy chief of naval education and training.-The Obseroer 
Tommy Shaw concert tickets will be dis­tributed to students next Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday evenings from 7 to 9 in the LaFortune ballroom. A valid Notre Dame or Saint Mary's ID must be presented to receive each ticket. Each student may present a maximum of six !D's. The concert will take place April 27 at 7 p.m. in the north dome of the ACC. Tickets are mandatory for admission to the concert. -The Obsemer 
Weather  
Mr. Sun is coming to visit today and his sunny disposition will raise the temper­ature to the low to mid 60s. South wind of 5-10 mph. Partly cloudy tonight with a 20 percent  r­--~'i:p:llI;::#·-.  
chance of showers toward morning. Low around 50. Mostly cloudy tomorrow with a 40­50 percent chance of thundershowers. High in  i L  : --~  
the upper 60s. -AP  

Today's issue was produced by:
The Observer 
Design Editor.......•......... Maureen Murphy Design Ass is tam ............ Man Graciane!!e Typesel/ers ...................... Bill Highduchcck
The Observer (USPS ~99 2·4000) is 
Vic Guarino
published Monday rhrough Friday and 
News Editor ............................. Jane Kravcik 
on home foorball Sarurdays, excepr 
Copy Editor ................... Cindy Rauckhorsr
dur1ng exam and vacation period,. lb~ 
Sports Copy Editor .......•....•....•Larry Burke 
Observer is published by rhc srudents or 
Viewpoint Copy Editor .........John Heasly
!he University or Noire Dame and Sainr 
Viewpoint Layout ........... Marie! Labrador
Mary'• College. Subscrip!lons may be Features Copy Editor .. Margare! McCabe purchased for 130 per year ( SlOper S<:· 
Features Layout ............ Mark McLaughlin
mesrer) by wrl!inglbe Observer, P.O. 
ND Day Editor .....••.........•..... Mark Wln!ers
Box Q, NOire Dame. Indiana 46556. 
SMC Day Editor............................. Ed Nolan
The Observer is a member of The 
Ad Design.............•..............John O'Connor
AMoclated Press. All reproducrion Kevin Murphy
righL.. are reserved. 

Photographer ........................... Vic Guarino 



Augusta offers alternative to traditional dorm living 
The Alternative. 

No, it's not a ticket running for student body presi· 
Theresa
dent at Notre Dame. At Saint Mary's, Augusta Hall is the best alternative ro 

Guarino
traditional dorm living to be found on either the Notre 
Dame or Saint Mary's campus. 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor 
Most Notre Dame students don't know Augusta even 
exists, probably because it houses only 64 students. Yet 

in a community where rules and regulations often make · 
life in the dorms stifling, Augusta stands out as a breath with a roommate, there's no message board. 
offresh air. But the benefits far outweigh any disadvantages. 
Built in 1892 at the immediate left of Regina Hall, Augusta is one of the few living arrangements on 
Augusta originally housed the novitiates studying at campus that makes students feel as if they are 21 or 22 
Saint Mary's. The hall is still owned by the Sisters of the years old. The same parietal rules exist there, but are 
Holy Cross, who lease the building to the College. upheld by the residents and resident assistants. And be-
Today, Augusta is a "self-governing dorm," meaning cause most ofthe residents are 21, there is not usually a there is no residence director living there, and only one problem with drinking. resident assistant. (However, there will be two next The real benefit is the lack of an authoritative figure year). Doors to the hall are locked and each resident has inside the dorm, and the feeling of responsibility that a key. There is no hall desk, -----comes with living there -the as in other dorms at Saint only people to enforce rules Mary's, and no one on duty are the students themselves. at night, as in Notre Dame After all, in the real world women's dorms. after college, when your 
Augusta began as a dorm next door neighbors are for only 21-year-old seniors. playing the stereo too loud Years ago, even grades were at 3 a.m., it will be up to you taken into consideration for to tell them to turn it dowm. admittance into the hall. If you are bothering some-
A problem arose when one by breaking a rule or by many seniors began moving just being loud, you have off campus, and it was hard your neighbor's wrath to to fill the dorm with only 21-fear, which is often a better year-old seniors. deterrent than the residence 
To help solve the prob-life punishment of putting a !em, the requirement that letter in your file for a se­seniors had to be 21 was 
mcster. dropped. And eventually the Augusta also is known for dorm was open to both Lf~/''2. a much inore relaxed atmo­juniors and seniors. sphere than other dorms. 
~though comprised mainly of singles, Augusta does Because most students are seniors and the hall is so have some triples and quads, but only one double. Since small, it is virtually impossible not to become ac­most seniors are not partial to living in a triple or quad, quainted with all residents. Unlike the swallowed-up those rooms usually are the only ones taken by juniors. feeling one can get living in dorms like LeMans, which 
'Ibe building itself is divided in half, with the south has 540 residents, Augusta is a comfortable place to live. side housing the convent, and the north side, the stu­Augusta President Peggy O'Brien said one ofthe goals dents. The halves are separated by the convent dining this year was to make Augusta more well-known. This hall on the first floor, the convent chapel on the second goal seems to have succeeded, at least at Saint Mary's. floor and a small lounge area on the third and fourth This year's Augusta lottery, which is held before the floors. general lottery, attracted more students than ever 
Augusta's benefits are many. before. 
Probably most important to Saint Mary's students, This popularity can only increase. In terms of dorm there is no hall desk. No reason to feel guilty as you living, Augusta can claim the title of"the next best thing hurry past the "desk ladies" at 4 a.m. No reason to get to living off-campus." irritated when they yell "anyone sleeping?" into the 24­hour lounges on weekend nights. 
The views expressed in the Inside column
Of course, having no hall desks can have its draw­are the views of the author, and do not neces­
backs. Augusta residents pick up packages and flowers at LeMans Hall, and when you can't leave a message sarily reflect the views of the editorial board. 

Co•••nkatlon • Theali'f" Fll•• at tile S.lt• lndlv. admlulon $2.50 

communiCAnoo
Fri. Apr. 12 Mon. Apr. 15 Tues • Apr. 16 
<'1. THEAIRE
Carlos Saura' s Vittorio De Sica 1 s Joseph Losey's Sweet Hours (1982) Tlio Women (1960) The Go-Between (l9n) Saura is Spain's most important director ~bout war-torn Italy, vith with Julie Christie and Alan Bates, and since Luis Bwmel Sophia Loren in an Oscar-winning role with a script by Harold Pinter 
............................. 

ClubsI Organizations 
Now is the time for aU ClubsI Organizations to: 
1. 
Register for the 85-86 Academic Year 

2. 
Request Student Activity funding 

3. 
Apply for a Football concession stand 


All forms are available in the Student Activi­ties Office, 1st Door of LaFortune. Deadline is Monday, April 15, 1985. 
............................. 
The Observer 
Friday, April12, 1985-page 3 


Five men to be ordained priests tomorrow at Sacred Heart 
campus. Prior to his present assign­ment he taught at Bourgade Catholic High School in Phoenix. 
Bednar, a teacher at Notre Dame High School in Niles, Ill., and assis­tant at St. John Brebeuf Parish in Niles, attended the University of Missouri at Columbia for three years before joining the Holy Cross Fat­hers. 
He holds a bachelor's degree in economics and a master of divinity degree from Notre Dame. While in the seminary he served at Logan Center and as an assistant at St. Joseph's parish, both in South Bend, and at Sacred Heart Parish. Kurtzke, an adjunct assistant pro­
0 Holy St. Jude apoatle and martyr great In virtue and rich In miracles near kinsman of Jesus Christ. Faithful ln­terceaor of all who Invoke your special patronage In time of need. To you have recourse from the depth of my heart and humbly beg whom Qod has ·given such great power to come to my aulstance. Help me In my pre­sent and urgent petition, l~n return I promise to make y<:*lr name known and cause you to be Invoked. Say three OUr Fathefl, three Hall Mary's and three Gloria for nine days. Publications must be promis­ed. Pray for us and all who In­voke your old ·Amen 
·Th1s novena has never been know.n 10 1011 THANK YOU ST JUD!: 
,JB 

Special to the Observer 
The long and anxiously-awaited day has finally arrived for five men, who will become fathers tomorrow afternoon at 1:30. 
Five members ofthe Indiana Prov­ince of the Holy Cross Fathers will be ordained Roman Catholic priests in Sacred Heart Church, by Father Paul Waldschmidt, auxiliary bishop of the Archdiocese of Portland in Oregon. 
The five and their families will be honored by members of the Holy Cross community and other friends at a reception following in LaFortune. 
Those to be ordained are Michael Baxter, of Delmar, N.Y.; Thomas Bednar, of Kansas City, Mo.; John Kurtzke Jr., of Falls Church, Va.; Kevin O'Connell, of Braqtford, On­tario, Canada; and Jeffrey Schneibel, of Minneapolis, Minn. All were or­dained to the diaconate at Notre Dame on Sept. 2, 1984. 
Baxter, who is co-director of the Andre House of Hospitality in Phoenix, graduated in 1977 from AI­legheny College before joining the Holy Cross Fathers at Moreau Semi­nary. 
He holds a master of divinity degree from Notre Dame and has served in University ministry on 
THE EARLY.~ BIRD... -~~­ 
Classes starting April14  
LSAT Call Days Evenincs & Weellendl 1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-4135  




Win a Porsche! 
Play the Domino's Pizza "No Problem" Game and you might win a brand new Porsche 944 Sports Car from Domino's Pizza and Coke~'Just rub off the Problem section of the game card. Then rub off the Solution section to see if you won a prize such as a FREE serving of Coke;•• toppings, pizzas or one of five Porsche 944's!! Hurry! Game ends May 19. 
Game cards are available at participating Domino's Pizza locations. Game Rules are on the back of the cards. No purchase necessary. 
Play the "No Problem" Game and Win! 
Limited delivery area. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. 

Fast, Free Delivery• 
2n-21s1 

1835 South Bend Ave. Plaza 23 Center South Bend 

II.
C 1985 Domino's Poua. Inc. 
fessor of mathematics at Notre Dame and member of the University ministry staff, is a 1973 Notre Dame graduate. He earned a doctorate in mathematics at the University ofCal­ifornia at Los Angeles before return­ing to Notre Dame in 1978. 
In addition to his bachelor of science degree, he holds a master of divinity degree from the University. He has also assisted at St. Joseph Parish in South Bend and at two parishes in Colorado Springs, and has completed a course in clinical pastoral education at Good Samaritan Hospital in Phoenix. 
O'Connell, an assistant at Sacred Heart Parish in Colorado Springs, Colo., studied for two years at Bor­romeo College before entering the Holy Cross Fathers' seminary pro­gram at Notre Dame in 1978. He holds a bachelor's degree from the University and received a master of divinity degree there at commence­ment exercises last May. 

Schneibel, an assistant at St. Pius 
Parish in Granger, Ind., studied at 
the College of St. Thomas for one 
year before entering the Holy Cross 
Fathers' seminary at Notre Dame as a 
sophomore in 1977. 

He has received two degrees at 
Notre Dame: a bachelor ofarts and a 
master of divinity. 

Patients no longer at mercy of doctors when lives on line 
By MICHAEL). CHMIEL 

StaffReporter 
Patients are no longer at the mercy of a decision made by their doctors when their bodies and lives are at stake, said Dr. Edmund Pel­legrino, director of the Kennedy In­stitute of Ethics at Georgetown University. 
Pellegrino gave a lecture yester­day at the Notre Dame Law School on the topic of "Medical Ethics in a Pluralistic Society -The Move from Substantive to Procedural Ethics." 
"Medical ethics today is the one ethical arena that will involve every­one," said Pellegrino. He said three reasons account for the relevance of medical ethics to people today. 
First, he said, the power of medi­cal technology has improved. "It makes a difference what your doctor decides. We are in a golden age of therapeutics. The physician can af­fect your life in its most intimate detail," he said. 

Secondly, he said society in the present is one lacking in moral con­sensus. He said that "pluralism to large degree" exists today, as opposed to the past when people lived in a predominantly Christian society. 
Thirdly, Pellegrino said there is a "democratization of every aspect of human life today." People want a say in decision-making and many dis­trust experts and professionals, he said. 
"I believe that the move is essen­tial and necessary and is keeping with the dignity of the human per­son to participate in the decisions that affect him or her," said Pel­legrino. 

SUMMER STORAGE SPACE 
(5 x 10 spaces available) 
Call 259-0335 to reserve space self lock storage of McKinley 

816 East McKinley Mishawaka Security Patrol Checks 

GNat beaclla, ctyatal-c:lear waten, iacredible pricea. 
OOH 


It's all waiting for you ' on Nassau/Paradise Island, 


CLASS OF '86 
Freeport/Grand Bahama, and The Family Islands-


SENIOR TRIP 
The Abacos, Andros, Bimini, Eleuthera, and The Exumas. In The Bahamas, you never run out of things to do. 

Con be paid by MC, VISA Until you want to. DEPOSITS will be collected 419-4112 

The Observer Friday, April 12, 1985 -page 4 
ByJOHN WALTERS 
News Staff 
Julien Samora, director of the graduate program in sociology, will be honored this weekend as he retires after 2S years at Notre Dame. 
Samora is ren>gnized as an inter­national expert on Chicano­American studies. 
There will be a reception tonight for Samora in the Library Auditorium, as well as a symposium tomorrow titled "Julien Samora: A Legacy of Chicano Scholarship and the Social World." 
Scheduled speakers for the tribute include Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president, Daniel Valdez, editor of "Nuestro" magazine, and more than 1 S professors from around the country who studied un­der Samora. 
The tribute was planned by Miguel Carranza of the llniversity of 





Salmonella poisons 2,200 
Associated Press 

r 
CHICAGO -More than 10,000

r 
people could contract salmonella

r 
poisoning from those already in­

r 
fected by contaminated milk, health officials said Wednesday, in urging

r 
' 
r extra precautions in five states. 
More than 2,200 are already believed to have contracted sal­~ monella poisoning by drinking suspect low-fat milk and many likely will pass it on, said Patricia Larsen of the Illinois Department of Public 
r 
f 
Health. 
She said the bacteria is resistant to antibiotics and can remain in the sys­tem longer than five weeks. 
The risk can be reduced by strict observance of hygiene rules, such as washing hands before preparing foods, after going to the bathroom and after changing diapers. 

"We expect it (the number of cases) to continue increasing over the next several weeks" through secondary contagion, Larsen said. 
Department spokesman Chet June said 2,1U7 cases of salmonella poisoning have been reported and 2,214 confirmed in Illinois, Indiana, 
r r 
r 
r 
,r 
, 
,r 
, 
r 
,r 
r 

Nebraska and Estevan Flores of 
Southern Methodist University, both 
former students ofSamora. 
'lbe weekend will also recognize the successful growth of the Hispanic community at Notre Dame, for which Samora is primarily re­sponsible. 
"He has done more than anyone to graduate Chicano doctors in law and sociology here," said Joseph Scott, professor of sociology. 
"He introduced courses that relate to the Chicano experience, and at Notre Dame, he is the only Chicano scholar around," Scott said. 
Samora said he is "just delighted" about the weekend and is looking forward to the reunion with the alumni. 
Looking back on his career, Samora said, "We started out to produce major scholars and schol­arly contributions, and if that's what we did. fine.;, 

Lunch ll:OOa.m. to 2:30p.m. Dinner 5:00p.m. Closed 

Granger Tap and Grill 
32 oz. Sirloin for two ....... $15.95 Prime Rib . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9.75 12 oz. Lobster Tail .... Market Price 
Come have breakfast, lunch, or dinner cocktails and sandwiches anytime! Watch the game on our 60" TV screen. 
Mon.-Sat. 6am-11pm Sun. 8am-9pm 12797 St. Road 23 277-6812 
14ittle ~prepares you for the real world. 
FENDING FOR YOURSELF. 
If you're going toea! pizza once you leave school. you'll have to find some wa~ to pay for it. And since vou won't he able to write home an\nwre for rnone\. you're ~oin~ to have to fin.d a job. which nieans first lining up inter­views. Have you started interviewing yet'! 
And if you do find a job. you're ·going to need a place to live. within your budgeI. which means vou mi!!ht have to take out a loan. But first vou have 'to establish credit. You don't have-credit'! Well vou can't !!et credit unles~ vou have a lot of riwnev in the bank. You d() have monev in the bank. don't vou'! No'! Well how do yoti expect to get marrred'! And huy a house'! And send your kids to colle!!e'! What about their future:! They're !!onna ~·ant to eat pizza too. you know. -~ 
Well. you can't solve these problems over­ni!!ht. hut \ou are l!oin~ to have to eat. so meanwhile Little Caes<~rs will help VIlli out a little. ­
a Sun-Thurs 
SMl 
~ llam -llpm ~ 
c 

Anyrl• 
Fri-Sat


+-----1---'=--+j 
llam -lam

Corner of Elwood and Portage (4 minutes from Campus) 
From your local Uttle Ca•ur'i manager· Jay Freet 
233-3200 
Give u• a tJy-You won't regret itf 
~'"'1 L:!1:1• ,.,1""./lr Enr~rprl\f'\ Inc 
----• VALUABLE COUPON •----
Samora was born in 1920 in Pagosa Springs, Colorado, and received his doctorate in sociology from Washington University in 1953. 
for reservations 

Ifilii PillA!I 
I 
I Bulan; .'iz~ nri~inal r<llllld rilla"' r~~ular rrin•. ~l'l Iidcnlic·al riua FREE 1111h 1h" l'nur•'n a1 parlll'tralin~ Li11k Ca~'""· Carr;·ntl! 
I 
onl~. Orll.' L't'liPPn pc..·r L'U~hlnll'L
I Ibpire-= 5-20-85 
·®~~~·



L---------------~ 
~----------------------~ -~ ~-­
------~------------~--------.-----~ 



~i~~~_<>__i_ll___t___________________F_rid-ay-,A-p-ril-12-,1-98-5~pa-ge~5 
Are the Democrats doomed to suffer defeats? 
.,1 
During the months following a Presidential election, it is common for the leaders of the losing party to get together and try to figure out what Went wrong the previous fall. The Democrats, stung by a second consecutive 
Brian McKeon 
reflecting 

whitewash, have recently been trying to "reconstruct" the party in hopes of regaining the White House in 1988. 
This year, with talk ofan emerging Republi· can coaliton and a "changing tide" in Ameri­can politics, the Democrats seem especially nervous. At a recent meeting of House Democrats, Horace Busby, a political analyst who was an aide to PresidentJohnson, warned that the party "is in the eye of a storm ... which is wiping out the base on which many Democrats think they stand." He went on, "I do not believe there is any credible basis to argue that the Democrats are still in a contest for the White House." 
The Democrats are not exactly unified as they plan their course for the future. A num­ber of leading Democratic officials recently set up a leadership conference outside of the Democratic National Committee to influence policy. They feel the party must change course and pull itself away from special inter­est groups. Many top Democrats expressed concern when Paul Kirk was recently elected chairman of the Democratic National Com­mittee. Mr. Kirk is a former aide ofSenator Ed­ward Kennedy and is seen as beholden to labor interests; these Democrats feel Kirk presents the type ofimage the Democrats are trying to get rid of. 
The signs for the Democratic Party are not encouraging. The South, once a stronghold of the Democrats, no longer can be relied upon. The whites in this region hold the key. In last fall's election, only a little more than one­fourth of white Southerners voted for Walter Mondale. The Democrats didn't help their cause by placing two Northern liberals on the ticket. Population shifts also may affect the party. A recent Library of Congress study predicted that ifpopulation trends of the last decade continue after I990, the Northern in­dustrial and farm states could lose up to 19 additional Congressional seats to the South and West, both strongholds of Reagan conser­vatism. Congressional seats determine the number of votes in the Electoral College, which actually elects a President. 
Is the Democratic Party headed for a per­manent decline? Perhaps. The anxiety dis­played by the Democrats, however, seems a bit premature. The doomsayers seem to be ig­noring some important realities. For instance, it is true that the Democrats have lost four out of the last five elections. But we must remem­ber that two ofthese losses were to extremely popular incumbents (Nixon and Reagan). An­other loss came at a low point in our nation's history, with American hostages abroad and inflation at a record high level. The other loss, in 1968, was by the smallest of margins, and came in a year when there was a third-party candidate. 
In addition, the Democrats have yet to lose their appeal below the national level. The Democrats hold a solid majority in the House, have a good chance of recapturing the Senate next year, and hold onto a vast majority of state and local offices. 
One important reason the Republicans have done so well in the past few elections is due to their tremendous organization. This has enabled them to build up large campaign treasuries, while the Democrats were scram­bling to pay off old campaign debts. 
Asecond important reason for the Republi­can success story has been Ronald Reagan himself. Whether you like him or not, Reagan is an incredibly popular figure. Most people who disagree with the man even claim to like him personally. Yet Reagan was unable to con­vert this popularity into any gains in Congress; in fact, the Democrats picked up seats in both houses. 
The Republicans are not invincible. They will most likely experience a tough battle for the nomination in 1988 which will shake party unity. While the Republicans have potentially electable candidates in Robert Dole, Jack Kemp and Howard Baker, no one knows if the man tapped to succeed Reagan will enjoy similar popularity. 
In the gloom surrounding a terrible loss, it is not uncommon for the losers to point fin­gers, to put the blame on this mistake or that fault. The Democrats have done an able job of this in the past few months. While of course adjustments must be made within the party, it is important that the Democrats not get so caught up with change that they become mir­rors to the Republicans, betraying their basic values or ideals. To do so could shatter the party permanently. 
Brian McKeon is a seniorgovernment major at Notre Dame and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 

P.O.BoxQ 
ture. Not a single article -not even a photo­graph-appeared on any ofthe 20 pages on this most important occasion. 
Instead, on the most prominent corner of the front page, there was a photograph of a man cleaning up a donkey's droppings. There is something intriguing about The Observer's sense ofhistory. 
Dominic Galicia Keenan Hall 
Can't fool all the people all the time here at ND 
Dear Editor: 

I am very enraged by the events depicted 
on the front and back pages of The Observer 
ofApril II. 

The Bookstore Basketball Tournament rules state that only members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's faculties, staffs and stu­dent bodies are eligible to participate in the tournament. Yet in blatant disregard for this regulation, we see on the sports page a picture ofVice President George Bush with a caption describing the play of his team in the tourna­ment. This is incredible! I know for a fact that Bush is not a member of the faculties, staffs or student bodies of the two schools, and he is still allowed to play. I do not care if he is the vice president -that does not make him spe-


Salute to Architecture did not receive coverage 
Dear Editor: 

One of the most extraordinary events to happen on campus this year took place on Tuesday, April 9. Pietro Belluschi, Philip Johnson and John Burgee visited our campus as guests ofthe University's Salute to Architec­ture. Belluschi and Johnson are recipients of the Gold Medal, the highest award given by the American Institute ofArchitects. 
Burgee, a I956 graduate of this University, 
is a partner in one of the most prestigious ar­
chitecture firms in America today. Many ofus 
know Johnson/Burgee as the creators ofCen­
tury Center in South Bend and the new A.T. & 
T. Bldg. in New York. 

These men came to Notre Dame to share· their thoughts on architecture with us. Their experience, intelligence, and the quality of their work make them extremely qualified to do this. The symposium, attended by many, was a rare opportunity for architects to dis­cuss the state of their profession. Later in the afternoon, Fr. Hesburgh conferred honorary doctorate degrees on Belluschi and Johnson, in a ceremony attended by Fr. Joyce and Provost O'Meara. 
In the April I 0 issue of The Observer, no mention was made of the Salute to Architec-
Doonesbury 

cial and he is still subject to the same rules we all are. 
Ifthis action isn't sickening enough, on the front page we see a lame attempt to "cover up" Bush's presence in the tournament by making it seem as if he was elsewhere at the time. On the front page is a picture of some­one who is supposedly Bush while the caption describes the "vice president" throwing out the first ball at a major league baseb;] game. 
Be serious. This photo is obviously some­one masquerading as Bush at the ballgame! This may have fooled the less enlightened crowd at the game, but you cannot put one over on us Someone wishing to enhance his team's chances persuaded the vice president to play on his team. Worried that someone might recognize Bush and report the infrac­tion, the parties responsible sent an unnamed person to masquerade as Bush elsewhere while the basketball game was in progress, so they could pass Bush off as "a guy who just happens to look like the Second-in-Command of the greatest country on the face of the earth." 
I was tipped off to this whole scheme by closely examining the page one picture. There, the imposter so exhaustedfrom his trip to impersonate Bush, mistakenly threw out a basketball at the opening ceremonies. You will see it too if you examine the picture closely. 
I am shocked not only that this sort of thing 
Garry Trudeau 

goes on at Notre Dame, but The Observer which we all admire for its fine investigative reporting failed to uncover this corruption on its own stomping grounds. 
Timothy French Notre Dame student 



Do not prevent the CIA from interviewing here 
Dear Editor: 

Although the CIA's recruiting at colleges may have been protested on many campuses, not all students feel the same way. I for one support the CIA and would like to see Notre Dame graduates in the CIA. It would be an honorary way to serve this country ofours in which too many take its privileges for granted. 
Ifstudents disagree with CIA actions, I feel it would be more effective if they wrote let­ters to their congressmen explaining their opinions. To take their frustrations out on the recruiters is childish, immature and spineless. I have not heard of any students being kid­napped to be (interrogated) interviewed by the CIA. To prevent those who wish to be in­terviewed the chance to interview is oppres­sion. Those students who keep the recruiters from interviewing are resorting to the same supposed oppression that they are protesting. 
Douglas]. Sibila Dillon Hall 

Quote of the day 
"I wouldn't want to belong to any club that would have me for a member." 

,
, 
1
~ Groucbo Marx 
, ~ 1 
1, 
=---The -Observer Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Ed1tor 1n·Ch1ef Sarah E Hamilton Busmess Manager. Dav1d StephenitCh The Observer ts the tndependent newpaper publtshed by the students ot the 
Manag1ng Ed1tor Amy Stephan Advert1s1ng Manager Anne Culligan News Ed1tor Keith Hamson Jr Controller. Bill Highducheck
Un1vers1ty of Notre Dan,,' du Lac and Samt Mary·s Col:ege. It does not necessanly 
News Ed1tor Dan McCullough Systems Manager Mark B Johnson
reflect the poliCieS of the Jdn11ntstrat1on of either mst1tut1CHl. The news IS reported as 
Sa1nt Mary·s Execut1ve Ed1tor Theresa Guanno Product1on Manager John A Mennet'
accurately and as Jbjectlvely as poss1ble. Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the op_mion 
Sports Ed1tor Jeff Bk.Jmb 
of a rnaJonty of the Ed1tor1al B0ard Cornmentanes. letters and the lns1de Column 
AccentEd/lor. Mary Healy present the v1ews of their autnors Column space IS available to all members of the V1ewpo"" EditOr Joe Murphy commun1ty. and the free express1on ot varymg op1n1ons on campus. through letters. Photography Ed1tor Peter C Laches IS encouraged Copy Ch1ef Frank L;po Founded November 3, 1966 
.-~-----------.---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­





Accent 
Jazz Festival rhythm returns 
SprcJ.al to The Observer 

The Notre Dame Collegiate Jazz Festival continues its long tradition ofshowcasing this country's finest colh:giate jazz talent when it opens for the 27th year this Friday and Saturday in Stepan Center. 
'!his is America's longest running collt:giate jazz festival. and the 1985 t"dition promisc:s to provide as much excitemt"nt as in years past as collegiate bands pnform in front of a judges' panel composed ofsome of the best jazz artists in show busi­ness. 
'!his year's festival includes I<; big bands and jazz combos from I 3 different colleges and universities. The special guest band, appearing Saturday night. will be the United States Air Force "Airmen to Note." 
Former festival participants who have since gone on to greater fame in the music world include David Sanborn, Bob james, Randy and Michael Brecker, james Pankow and Chico Freeman. 
The judges for this year's festival include saxophonist Jimmy Heath, pianist Stanley Cowell, drummer Butch Miles. bassist Dave Holland and jazz critic Dan Morganster, a judge at I 5 previous Notre Dame festivals. Judging the finals will be guitarist Gene Bertondni. 
The schedule for this year's fes­tival includes three sessions: 
•Friday, 
April 12 beginning at 7:30p.m. 

•Saturday. 
April 13 from I to 4:30 p.m. 

•Saturday, 
April 13 beginning at 6:30p.m. 


'fht" "Judges'Jam" will cap Friday night's performances. This tradition-rich "jam" begins at 11:30 p.m., when the judges will take the stage and play i11to the wee hours of Saturday morning. In past years the "Judges' Jam" has featured such outstanding jazzmen as "Cannonball" Alderly, Herbie Han­cock and Grammy Award-winning trumpeter Wynton Marsalis. 

Tickt"ts for the 27th Notre Dame Collegiate Jazz Festival arc available at South Bt"nd area Bonnie Doon restaurants, the Rock du Lac Record Store in Lafortune. and at the door ofStepan Center. Ticket prices for this year's sessions are as follows: 
• Friday evening----S5 
•Saturday afternoon----S:) •Saturday evening----54 •All sessions----S8 
As always, the Collegiate Jazz Festival promises to be an entertain­ing experience and a great way to add a little cultural spice to the weekend. 


The fine caliber ofjudges who participate in the Jazz Festival is obvious when noting the personalities who have judged in the past. At right: pianist Jimmy McNeely. At left on top: trumpeter Terrence Blanchard. At Left on bottom: bassist Ron Carter. Below: trumpeter Wynton Marsalis. 
Photos by Karen Klocke 

The U.S. Airforce band, "Airmen of Note" will be featured at this year's festival. 
-

Friday, April 12, 1985 -page 6 -7 


Special birthday wishes for a special woman 
Rev. Robert 
Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
S
ister Dolorilda, C.S.C., is having a birthday week. On Wednesday, she was 82. It's not polite to men­tion a woman's age, a la'\\'Yer's income or an athlete's grades; but having reached the landmark age of three score and ten which the Bible allows, you should celebrate the bonus years after 70 as though you were being presented with merit badges. 
The older I get, the less coy I am about hiding my age. It takes stamina to survive very long in a tough world. 
Every student who attends Mass at Sacred Heart Church has seen Sister Dolorilda: a small, white­haired lady with a gentle voice and wise eyes, always dressed in a blue veil and wearing the silver locket that identifies the Holy Cross sisters. 
Sister Dolorilda, a recently retired receptionist at Moreau Seminary, now assists Sister Gertrudis and Sister Suzanne in taking care of the liturgies on busy feast days and resides with the two in the Student Health Center. 
I met Sister twenty years ago at the Holy Cross House --I was sick and she was my nurse. Priests, when they are ailing, are as cantankerous as everyone else. Some of us get as scared or nervous as little children. 

In 1965, Sister Dolorilda was the Florence Nightingale who brought us medicine and soothed our pil­lows, along with some of the sweetest-tempered brothers in the world. 
I could see that it must take great faith to care for the boys ofsummer in their ruin, because life saves its dirtiest tricks for the sick room. Some ofthe greatest personalities in Catholic education wasted away to leanness and temper at Holy Cross House. 
"Do not go gentle into that good night," the poet Dylan Thomas urged his father at the checkout counter; "Rage, rage, against the dying of the light." A few ofour Holy Cross priests, devastated phys­ically, have not gone gentle; they raged so much that King Lear on the heath would have been proud of them. 
The peace ofacceptance finally comes to all. They're as meek and mild as lambs going through the valley of the shadow ofdeath. Sister Dolorilda, watching and praying, saw dozens going home to God. There were many evenings when she must have felt tired ofbeing a servant of the sick to the saints, though she was quick to praise them as gentlemen ofthe Cross, and encouraged them with her faith. If forgiveness were ever necessary, she forgave them without being 


Dance~ 
•The 
Beaux-Arts Ball returns! And as you might have figured out by now, the galla event's theme this time around is "Paint the Town Red.'" The new wave band, "Cause for Passion" will provide entertainment as well as a reason to dance. It all starts at 9:30p.m. in the Architecture Building and tickets will be sold in advance for $5 or at the door for S6. 

•The 
World Hunger Coalition will sponsor a dance/concert tomorrow night in the Chautauqua Ballroom. The event features the band "The Angry Stewar­desses" who will perform at 9 and 11:30. This group promises a collage ofhits featuring everything from U-2 and REM to JoeJackson and the Monkees, as well as some onginals. Admission will be $1 and all proceeds will go to the W.H.C. 


IINI/f//11. 
Movies ~~~;#, 

% 
•The Friday Night Film Series includes tonight's presentation, Sweet Hours in the Annenburg Auditorium, admission: $2.50. Spain's most important director presents the story ofa gentle, con­templative poet who is obsessed with the past--the war, his family, his sexy maid Gilda and with every boy's dream: his stunningly seductive mother. The film circles around and through Juan's memories in elegant pirouettes. 
conscious of what she was doing as a compassionate sister, incapable of holding a grudge. 
In 1965, as a priest in his prime years, I felt very sorry for myself on the casualty list. I kept getting more and more wounded by stress. Then I broke my arm and later, my leg. I was afraid I would be an invalid forever. Sister Dolorilda helped me through the months ofgloom with her kindness. 
One morning the photographer came, and we were lined up to have our pictures taken. No one had to tell me that the Community wanted an up-to-date mug shot to use on an obituary card. I was beside myself with anger and fear. At age 38, out ofdue season, I was being pro­cessed for burial. I hated being treated as though there were a possibility of my dying. 
On one of the most depressing days of mylife, Sister Dolorilda cheered me up. We were both converts to the Catholic faith and remember the same Gospel hymns. She encouraged me to talk about the songs offaith I love. She left me believing that I still had a future. There's something about "Shall We Gather at the River?" that leaves you with hope, not because it promises heaven, but because it reminds you ofcamp meetings when you were young. 
Many of us in Holy Cross owe debts ofgratitude to Sister Dolorilda. Even the younger mem­bers, whom she served as morale officer at the seminary, have reasons to love her. R.L. Stevenson dedicates "A Child's Garden of Verses" to Allison, his nurse, "From her boy." His dedicatory poem almost works as the speech I could make Sister Dolorilda on her birthday: 
For the long nightsyou lay awake And watchedfor my unworthy 
sake 

Foryour most comfortable band 
That led me through the uneven 
land 

Forall the story booksyou read 
For all thepain you comforted 
Grant it, heaven, that all who 
read 

Mayfind as dear a nurse at need 
But Notre Dame is not a child's 
garden, and I wasn't a boy in 1965, 
and Sister Dolorilda is a professional 
woman who shouldn't be sentimen­
talized as an ex-nanny. 
She didn't enter the religious life until she was 42. You couldn't mistake her for one of the old­fashioned sisters who used to kiss the pastor's hand out of reverence for alter Cbristus. She has the good sense of the convert who was nei­ther startled nor liberated by the changes ofVatican II. 
Converts have the wisdom not to 
be surpised at doing things as Cat­
holics that they were used to doing 
as Protestants. All traditions are full 
ofgrace; and in the worship ofGod, 
there is nothing new under the sun. 
I'm amused at how much of the old 
luggage gets thrown overboard by 
old timers frantic to be liberal and 
modern. 
Sister Dolorilda's style ofreligion 
seems timeless as a faith for all 
seasons ofher life. She knows Christ 
wisely; and He's the same yesterday, 
today and forever. Christians need 
to be tolerant with their God, and 
patient with the Church. 
I can only write what I feel in my 

•Saturday Night at the O'Laughlin Auditorium, the Kawasaki Racing Film Take it to the Limits will be shown at 8 p.m. for $7.50. 
Art 
I~ 

•All the galleries at Saint Mary's College will be displaying the first Senior Com­prehensives from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. tonight and 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. Sunday. 
•Get set for music, dance and excite­ment this weekend as Kevin Bacon will keep everyone on their toes in the movie 

Theater 
Footloose. SAB is presenting this award winning movie at 7, 9:15 and 11:30 tonight and Saturday night for $1. 50. 


•Br0adway Theatre League presents David Copperfield's Magic Show at the Morris Civic Auditorium tonight and tomorrow night. Do not miss the person who made the Statue ofLiberty disappear.


Misc. 

Performances will be Friday at 8 p.m. and Saturday at 2 and 8 p.m. 
•The strong ... the weak .. the insane, they'll all be together at Mr. Stanford Contest for an evening offun and enter­

Mass 
tainment. All are encouraged to attend this event at Washington Hall from 7 p.m. to 10:30 p.m. Saturday night. The $1 charge will go to Ethiopia. 


The celebrants for Mass at Sacred Heart Church this weekend will be: 
•Michiana Sierra Club will sponsor its Father Patrick Maloney at 5:15 p.m. sixth annual backpacking siminar Sunday (Saturday night vigil). at 2 p.m. The clinic is open to public free Father George Wiskirchen at 9:00 a.m. ofcharge. For additional information call FatherJohn Kurtzke at 10:30 a.m. J 288-4883. Father Michael Baxter at 12:15 p.m. 



heart about Sister Dolorilda. She doesn't talk about herself, and I can't be sure how well I know her. It surprises me to realize I only know her by her religious name. I've never heard her family name or the name she was given at birth. I wouldn't want to embarrass her. She may not want her name in the paper. I just want to let her know in a special way that I admire and love her. She is a representative ofthe Holy Cross nuns who have had essential roles at Notre Dame since the time ofSorin. I'm sending them this thank you note in Sister Dolorilda's birthday week. 
She said to me yesterday: "I'm waiting for Halley's comet to come back. It will be visible to us soon. I saw it with my father in 1910. He said: 'When it comes back again, you'll be an old lady.'" 
The earth has spun around a few times since 1910. Sister Dolorilda 
·has lived through difficult decades 
ofa turbulent century. Nowadays, 
Halley's comet is not the sign in the 
sky that we're waiting for with 
dread. It was a long time ago that 
she lived on a farm in Michigan, 
making bread in her mother's 
kitchen. She grew up in the years 
before the country lost its in­
nocence. I would loved to have 
known Dolorilda as a young woman 
from America's heartland. 
Halley's comet may make as many curtain calls as a vaudeville star. I hope there will always be Holy cross sisters like Dolorilda to get excited at something that has the appearance ofa fallen star. The constellations stay fixed in the firmament to declare the glory of God like a choir. They are not more faithful than the American women ofthe Catholic Church. 
-• A 
.----------------------------------~--~--­


Sports Briefs 
The Notre Dame track team will compete in 
two meets this weekend. Twelve athletes will travel to the Dogwood Relays in Knoxville, Tenn., today and tomorrow. Meanwhile, the rest of the team will participate tomorrow in the Purdue Relays in West Lafayette, Ind. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team 
will take on Miami of Ohio today in Oxford, Ohio. Tomorrow, the Irish will play Central Michigan and Bowling Green at Bowling Green. -The Obsen'er 
A charity goH tournament is being sponsored 
by the Freshman Advisory Council on Sunday, April 21. Signups will be hdd today during dinner at the dining halls. A greens fee of S20 willlx· charged for each foursome. -The Observer 
AnTostal mud volleyball schedules are posted outside the student government offices on the second floor of LaFortune. First-round games will be played Saturday and Sunday on the fields across from Stepan Center. For more information, call janet Tahit at 277-3967 or Matt Corrigan at 283-2465.-The Observer 
AnTostal innertube water polo schedules are posted outside the student government offices on the second floor of Lafortune and rules are available in 257 Cavanaugh. First round games begin Monday. -The Obsen1er 
The ND Rowing Club will play host to an invita­tional regatta tomorrow at l l a.m. at the boathouse, located about two miles down Notre Dame Avenue. Several Midwestern colleges, universities and clubs will be participating. -The Obsen•er 
Friday, April 12, 1985 -page 8 
First-round action starts up 
Booketore Tournement 
Yeaterday'a Reaulta 
Stepan 1 
Dnbbl1ng Dyxz II over LIQUid Sky & the Drown~ng 
B~rdsby4 
Headly & the Hog Heads over The Procedural 
Defects by t6 
Shysters over The Bully Bunch by 6 
Still Vinually Unknown over P1ts by t4 
Stepan 2 
Post Consumptory White Castly Movements over 
Something to Grab Four by 9 
Haynes Hackers over We Are the People Our Par­
ents.. by 15 
Apha. P1, Sigma over You'll Win By 20 by tS 
Byrne's Byproducts over The Heroes by 4 
Stepan3 
Hey. Sh1-Happens over Bern~e Goetz & the Sub­
way Alumni by 2 
4 Engtneers Whose Feet Smell. over The 
Schmucks by t2 
2 Ionic 2 Doric & t Early Corinthian over Campus 
Umtedby t7 
John Murphy's Slime Tratn VI over 9 Ktdneys 
Stepan4 
ProJectile Earwax From Hell over The Hawa1ian 
Kn•ghts by 14 
Homeboys over J.J. Wehle & H1s Four Inches by 9 
Tofu Vegetables I over We're Only Here For the 
Beer by 17 4 Guys Who Go All the Way & Joe Dietz over The Rats by4 Stepan 5 Masc1op1nto's lnsh Army over Jama1can Express by t3 International Man over All We've Got is an Outside Shotby4 The Uncoachables over Abandoned by Meosky by t3 Jack & the G1ant K1llers over The 8-lnch Vertical Rlseby9 
Stepan 6 
Phi Runna Gunna over One More Try by t2 
B•g Black Mac AMack over 5 Guys Under 5 Foot 5 by 12 King Ortega & the Naugles Gang over The Subur­ban Schoenburgs by lorfeit Rag1ng Ray's CPAs over Rehabilitate & Rebuild by t8 Bookotore9 M1lk & the 4 Udders Squirt Aga1n over Watergate by 
9 

Just Taint over We Could Score If Our Puose Dtdn't 
Hunby4 
Red Barons over Indira Gandhi & 4 Guys Who Can 
Shoot by tt 
2 Puds & 3 Other Tools over Thanks A Lot Luke by 
t4 
Bookatore10 

FAQ II over Joel, Get Off the Babys1tter by t2 
Soap Dish over Private Club by 5 

Sweet Lou's W1td Kingdom over Kill My Landlord. Kill My Landlord by 4 We're Incredible ·nng over 4 P1gs & a Stud by 3 Lyona11 Ke1th (Magic) Lomax & 4 Other Guys. over About To Face You by 20 Negative over Can't Always Get What You Want by 
2 
Los Malandros over Amateur Phylacttcs by 9 4 Skins & a Lazy---Cheesehead. . over The Groom & the 4 Best Men by t3 Lyona12 4 Normal Males & One with Stage Fright over Can­field's Crew by forfeit Pee Wee & the Wee-Bees over Big Dan & the 8 Balls by t8 The Beanheads over Eye of the Hoops Hurnca1ne by tt Let"s Go Crazy over B1nk by tt 
Today'a Gamea Stepan t 4:00-Team Many Martoon1es v. The Hogs 
4:45 -Bobby Knight Takes His Seat v. We Can't Play Basketball But. . 
5:30 -If You Wanna Play Ball Then Bring... v. Vacuum EHect 6:15-John Henry & the Longshoremen v. Big Blue 
Vein Stapan2 
4:00 -Couch Potatoes v. Sister Bart & Her Pink Rusts Brothers. 4:45-The World Would Be a Whole Lot Nicer ... v. Weethy's Warriors 5:30-Muddy Waters v. We Never Practiced Even Once 6:t5-The Fastest White Guy on Campus... v. Return of the Homewreckers Stapan3 4:00-That's Why They Call Us the Cru1sers v. In­
dira Gandhi & the Sikh's. 4:45-Foley's Runners v. Real Men Play Croquet 5:30-Don't Laugh v. 4 Athletes & an S.I.D. 6:t5-PB & Who Knows v. CB & the DT's 
Stepan4 4:00-Hyper Act1ve v. You Should See Us When We're Angry 
4:45 -Andy & the Hog Slabbers v. Constantine Chernenko & the Nearly Dead 5:30-Cnmes Aga~nst Nature v. 5 Screams From the Loft Ill 6:t5-Chernenko's Dead v. Little Waterbirds on the Prairie 
Stepan 5 4:00-Thelnsh Wrestling Club v. Tathasters 4:45-Instant Funk v. Summary Judgement 
5:30 -Capta•n Colostomy & the Bags v. Where·s That Kid Fwaydoe 6:t5-Showt1me v. Diggers 5 Sons 
Stap•n6 4:00-We Broke Parietals With Guys v. Two Bucks 4:45-This Is a Dictatorshipv. TW1ce Baked Codfish 5:30-Aga1nst All Odds v. 5 Guys Who Foul 
6: tS -No Blood. No Foul. We Cheat v. 5 Semora Without a Job 
Bookatore9 
4:00-We Can·• Jump v. Grappling in the Cosmic Wash 4:45-Deltas v. Cubs Lose1 5:30-Ed Sm1erC1ak & 4 Other Guys Better .. Olym­
pians for Prostitution 6:15-The Boxer Rebellion Rides Aga~n v. DrOtd's Drunks Bookatora10 4:00-Sooooof v. Chicks Dig Us Now That We're Semors 4:45-Chicks D1g Us v. Opulescent 5 
5:30 -5 Really Bad Basketball Players. Really v. DM3 
B 
6:tt>-Just What The Doctor Ordered v. A Sopho­more 114 Guys From. Lyona11 
4:00 -Were Seniors. What the Hell v. Age & the Deaghne Buckets 
4:45-Law School---v. B'bye 
5:30-The 69ers v. Buttsweat & Tears 
6:t5-5 Crazy Mother Fickers With a Will .. v. Yank 
My Doodle. Lyona12 4:00-Shooting G-Men v. Apathy & the Walk•ng Wounded 
4:45 • Pnme T1me v. 5 Farmers 1n Ethiopia 5:30-Purple Ve1n v. Chicks Are Dumb 6:t5-Space Shuttle & the MoonShotsv. Team 5t2 

Th•· Ohsert'f'Y ~utrt· Dame: offin·. h>tatnl on the third tluur of I.JI·ortllll<' .,tudt·nt (.c:mc:r. at"Cl'PI' cla"lfkd ad\'c:rti"ng !rom •J a.m until t p 111. \londJI throul(h l'rida1 !be Ohserr•er .,aint .\!an··, uftke lm Jtnlun Ihe third floor of llagl(ar Col!c:l(t' <:t·ntt·r. acn-pl' t·la"if1nb from 12..~0 p m until ~ p m ...\!on da1· though Friday l>c:Jdlinc: for m·xt dJI ''""'11nb i' .~ p m. All da"ifkd' mu" he prt·paid. either 111 pt·f'on or h1 mJI! < harl(c: i' ttl <<"Ill' rwr fi\'l' t·harac




Classifieds 
It'" c:r da\'. 

HAS ANYONE FOUND MY UNCLE'S FOUND: CORAL AND GOLD COLORED FOR SALE! 76VW RABBIT CALL t459 EUROPEAN SUMMER PROGRAMS -Madman, maybe we'll meet aga1n at WATCH??? I still have not found my silver BRACELET IN 3N HOWARD. CALL JIM 
LAST CALL TO JOIN A NATIONAL Sen1orBar. GROUP OF STUDENTS. MOSTLY
NOTICES Acutron watch that belonged to my Great­AT2522. 6 UNIT APARTMENT FOR SALE. NO­The drunk&·Steph and Carohne Uncle. If you have by any chance dis­MEMORIAL AREA. EXCELLENT CON­
SMC/ND. FOR TRAVEL AND STUDY IN: covered 11 in a melting snowbank or LOST:GOLD WOMEN'S "ADVANCE" DITION 233-9728 232-4528 SOPH-JR-SR MGT MAJORS VOTE 
IRELAND. SCOT.. ENG., FR .. GER.. something, Plea•e call at 3300 and ask DIGITAL WATCH ON WED.APRIL3 BE­FRIDAY FOR MGT CLUB OFFICERS H­
SWITZ.. AND ITALY ON TWO DIFFER­TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8197 for Paul. If you want money or my first TWEEN WALSH AND THE BUSINESS HLOBBY 
ENT PROGRAMS. CALL PROF. A.A. born or anything just ask' BUILDING. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 
BLACK 284-4460 OR 272-3726.

TYPING AVAILIIIILE TO THE PERSON WHO CLAIMS TO BE 
2116. Twosfory. all modern. 3-4 bedroom. C/A, 
287-4082 MY FRIEND BUT NOT MY LOVER: I'M
Alarm system. 1 & 1/2 bath. Marquette LET'S NUKE STUDENT GOVERN­NOT IMPRESSED. 
LOST a light blue GERRY ski jacket at distnct. 287-9t03 
MENT LOST: ONE PAIR OF ITALIAN LEATHER The Commons on wednesday night Then we can start over agam. .m TYPING GLOVES. BROWN SIZE 9. REWARD. before Easter break. A nice reward of­We are the World was good but now the Jtlckla llogga ANGRY STEWERDESSES do it better­
lered if found. Please contact Dan at 1184-87113 DUE TO MY SPASTIC NATURE I HAVE 16t2. Rocking Chataqua Ballroom Sat. n~ght at
Tickets are still available for the Chle8g0 MANAGED TO LOSE MY WINTER 9:00 and t1 :30 S 1.00 donations at doorTICKETS Trip for ANYONE (not just Juniors) 
VEST. IT IS BLUE WITH FLANNEL go to help hungry In Africa BE THERE 
LOST: AIR-FORCE STYLE FLIGHT Cata Tlcketa $35 WORDPROCESSING • 277-4045. 
LINER AND CORDUROY COLLAR. fT JACKET. MISPLACED AT SENIOR BAR 
Cuba Tlckteta $17 ALSO HAS A GROUND ZERO BUTTON THE WED BEFORE EASTER. 
DO YOU SING OR PLAY A MUSICAL

DESPERATELY NEED GRADUATION Saturday. Apnl t3 Call Dan 1787 by
TYPING 277-8534 after 5:30 ATTACHED AND EVEN THOUGH REWARD OFFERED. CALL JIM INSTRUMENT?
TICKETS -PARENTS AND FAMILY Friday GROUND ZERO NO LONGER EXISTS I BRUNDAGE AT t574 ARE COMING TO SEE THEIR LAST KID SMC CHAMELEON CLUB NEEDS 
Wordprocaulng and Typing 

STILL WOULD LIKE ITS RETURN DUE PERFORMERS FOR WEDNESDAY,
GET A DIPLOMA. PLEASE HELP THIS Wanted: correspondent for prison inmate 
272-8827 APRIL 17. 
TO RELIGIOUS OBLIGATIONS. LOST A LIGHT GREEN NOTEBOOK WILL BE THEIR LAST HONOR CON­at Atica Prison in N.Y. Born and raised in PLEASE RESPOND. THERE IS WITH NOTRE DAME STICKER ON THE SIDERING I HAVE NO JOB OR
A NOTRE DAME AND ST.MARY'S TAL­
Santa Monica, CA. Interests include ENTS BOTH WELCOME. 
REWARD IN THE FORM OF S&H COVER 4/2/85. IF FOUND PLEASE HONORS!! WILL MAKE DAD PAY YOU water spons, loolball. baseball. and
TYPING T<lfm papers. resumes. letters. CONTACT SMC STUDENT ACTIVITIES 
GREEN STAMPS. CALL DAN AT 272-GIVE ME A CALL. DAN-2466. II! 
motorcycling. I teach martial ans. puitar
manuw•pts. Reasonable rates: pickup & 5416. AT 4561 OR TONI AT 4068 OR LISA AT
and enjoy meetmg new frtends. Please
delivery on campuses avllllable. Call Mrs. 50931F INTERESTED. 
write: J. Mono, 7B-D-238, Box t49, Attica,Schultz between 5-10 pm 277-5134. 
LOST: ladles gold wristwatch with a grey N.Y.140tt. 
leather band somewhere between room 
Donna Stiglmeier: Get PSYCHED for the Will do Typ1ng -exp<lf•enced typist 204 O'Shag and the South Dining Hall "Time of Your Life" at the Dillion Formal
LOGAN VOLUNTEERS: This is ill This is 
Reasonable. Call287-5162 TONIGHT'
Tuesday morning. If found. please call 
the last month of Logan Act1vit1es this Jackie at 3688. REWARD. 
year. JOIN US THIS WEEKEND FOR
Word Proceaa1ng and Typ1ng Resumes. After drinking a frothy broth made from
NEED AN APARTMENT OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, THE "GO HAWAIIAN DANCE" onLetlen, Papers, Documents Call 234-LOST: VARSITY LETTER JACKET. Loot Oouillon cubes. Sue Wlped her festering
Summer Townhouse ava1labfe for rent! CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., FRIDAY (4/12) at 7:30 pm and
2380 at LaFonune on 4/8. Size 42, button up, Call2275 for information. ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. CARTOON REC on SATURDAY (4/t3) blisters with a moist towleHe. name written inSide right sieve. If you 
from 9 to 11:30 am at LOGAN CENTER. Will do typ1ng -exper1enced typ1st. have any Info. concern1ng this jacket, or if MOONCHILDREN. a play about college 
Reasonable~ Call287-5t62. you found it, please turn it in at lost and students during the Viet Nam era. Wlll be
2 bedroom apartment for summer rent.. PUCKER UP and WATCH OUT! K1sser IS CUBS VS. EXPOS THIS SUNDAY! BUS found or call me (272-9466). ThiS IS very presented in Washington Hall on Aprilt8.
close to campus(t/4 m1le) call277-1256 commg! K1sser is coming! Kisser is com­LEAVES 1t:15AM. CALL PETE 25331F
TYPING-CALL ANDREA-283-3880 Important to me! Sincerely, Kev1n 
Ing! INTERESTED t9and20at8 p.m. WARNING: Language may be offensiVe to some. General M1cro and Apple Computer have FOUND: BLACK GLACIER SUN­BE A PART OF THE ORIENTATION
TALL, GOOD-LOOKING MALE WITH-
extended the Mac~ntosh bundle priCing GLASSES IN ROOM t13 NSH AFTER GENERAL COMMITTEE MANDATORY Moonch1ldren
OUT A MUSTACHE SEEKS DR. HAMBURG'S RUSSIAN HISTORY MOONCHILDREN
t2BK Mac~ntosh. lmagewruer. and exter­WANTED MEETING MONDAY APRIL 15 6PM
GIRLFRIEND. MUST BE WELL­
nal disk dnve-$t84t.t0 CARROLL HALL ??? CALL CAROL4352 
CLASS ON WED. APRIL3. CALL JIM AT GROOMED. QUIET AND ALSO WITH­MOONCHILDREN 2522 OR STOP BY 336 HOWARD HALL. 
OR MAURA 4339 

OUT A MUSTACHE. IF INTERESTED t NEED GRAD. TIXI 
CALL NICK AT 1684. 512K Macintosh, lmagewr1ter, and exter­LOST: Box of Maclntoah Dlaca Lost TO THE BIG GUY FROM LINSLY.WV,I ND MALES... Are you ready? STACEY IS
Please call L1sa at 3544. HEYI IF YOU ORDERED A PROGREs­
nal d1sk dnve-$2439.60 before Easter break. (Some of the discs LOVE YOU TOO.THANX FOR BEING COMING Oh no. not another Pellegnn' have my name and number on them) If SO SWEET TO ME.V. 
SIVE MUSIC CLUB T-SHIRT, YOU BET­I 200 baud modems have been reduced you f1nd them. please call Steve at 2n-KAMIKAZE JAM II IS COMING UP
We are lookmg for 2 or 3 female TER PICK IT UP SATURDAY 2-4 P.M.IN to $350 00 wh1le supplies last 8785. They·re just d1scs to you, but t11ey NOVENA TO ST. JUDE SOON!! ASK YOUR FAVORITE 2ND
roommates to share a house next school 341 KEENAN. IF YOU DON'T PICK IT
General Micro have papers on them that I need to turn Holy St. Jude Apostle and Manyr, great 1n WING ST.EDER FOR THE APRIL 17TH 
year. Call Andy (330t) or Rob (3305) 1f In­UP THEN, WE GIVE 'EM ALL TO 
Baaamant ot LaFortune Student Can­1n!! v1rtue and nch mm1racles. near kinsman DETAILS. MORE TO FOLLOW!! 
RONNIE JAMES DIO. WHO WILL USEterested.
ter of Jesus Christ. faithful inpercessor of all
THEM AS KLEENEX. 239-74n-283-272& FOUND: One. yes. one Kodak Drsc who invoke your spec1a1 patronage 1n.t1me HELP. I WANT TO SEE MY BROTHER
HELPII Need a ride to CHICAGO ­
9a.m.-5p.m. camera Its the really fancy 6000 model. of need, to you I have recourse from the GRADUATE'! NEED GRAD TIXI! CALL
IT'S COMING ..... so 1f you want 11 back contact John or ,leH depth of my heart and humbly beg to GAIL AT 2964.
either downtown or • weatern auburb 
(Wheeton/Addioon) THIS FRIDAY!! 
at 4243 By the way. I found 11 at the Car­whom God has g1ven great power to come 
April t 2-Pleeae call u..at 3033 KEEP CHARITY BALL 
roll Hall formal at the Morns Park Country to my ass1stance. Help me in my present FREED. THEY VOW TO BATTLE IS­
trying eapeciafly early a.m. or 18t8f'
Club. P.S.-There are only two p1ctures urgent pet1t1on. In return I prom1se to REAL'
CHARITY BALL used 1n the roll of him and lm getting Itchy make your name known and call you to be p.m.
I LOS~ FOUND I 

Invoked. Say 3 Our Father's, 3 Hail
to take photos ol my le,surely pet Hermit yes .. they're here.. .for a lim1ted engage­
Student mterested 111 marketing. Must CHARITY BALL 
Mary's, and 3 Gloria's. Publication must
Crab. S1ggy. so call real soon' ment Sat. night at 9;00 and tt :30, the
have ab1lity to commun•cate effectively by 
be promiSed. St. Jude pray for us and all THE ANGRY STEWERDESSES atmak1ng phone appomtments and per·
LOST a lad•es ~· se•ko watch around LOST: WEST'S BUSINESS LAW BOOK who mvoke your a1d. Amen. ThiS novena Chataqua Ballroom. Proceeds help sratv­
sonal follow-ups to Bankers and Realtors YOU ARE INVITED 
and about mam south quad about 2 SECOND EDITION AT LUNCH 4/11 AT has never been known to fa1L Say for 9 mg 1n Afnca, $1.00 donation at door 
in the city of your cho1ce. Income con· The ND/SMC Chanty Ball 
weeks before 1~ r•ng break--heaps and SOUTH DINING HALL FROM ON TOP days.
ttnues when you return to school MMG · an Ethiopian Extravaganza 
bunches of sent~r11ental value 11 attached OF THE CIGARETTE MACHINE. TO Thank you St. Jude, B.B. Attention! ThiS Sunday IS Com Rich's
Corp, Flonan Bales. t-800-562-0429. Saturday. April20 
to 11--piHse call Heather at 3763 if you THE "SCUMBAG" WHO b1nhday. Please call her and W1Sh her a
9 p.m. to 2 a.m. have found it--thanks' "BORROWED" MY BOOK, PLEASE happy day at 4t28. Happy B~rthday. Coni!
Stepan Center RETURN IT TO THE SPOT WHERE HEY, DID YOU HEAR THE JOKE
T1ckets on sale in dorms and at LaFortune LOST: BLUE NO BOOKBAG IMPOR­YOU "SWINDLED" IT. IF YOU, THE ABOUT STUDENT GOVERNMENT?!? FT. LAUDERDALE BUS B--BUS B--BUS 
record store. $6 single. $tO couple 
TANT TO GET NOTEBOOKS BACK 1M­LOSER, HAS ANY CLASS, YOU WILL FOR SALE All students. faculty. and members of the B--BUS B--BUS B--BUS B--BUS B Pany MEDIATELY Luqgage tag wtlh RETURN IT. MY IS ON THE INSIDE OF at CHUCK'S, Fnday. April t2. from 9to?
ND/SMC community welcome. 
BARNES-HIND corporate togo on 11. THE BOOK IF YOU, THE LOW LIFE 4th chair The balance system neverlails· Questions? Call Leanne at3622. Everything 1na1de has name. address, CAN READ. I HAVE A TEST ON THE its your turn to be on lop only 3rd cha~r Be sman• Sell your class books before the 
3t36 on 11. "Lost· btwn. tQ-10:45 AM 4/18. TO THE 3N PfGS (this includes you too.
SENIORS.SENIORS:Need graduation
Tues. April 2 1n South D1n1ng Hall. rush. Mon.-Fri between t2 and 4. SaveS Riders needed to IOWA STATE or the U. Scott): Thank you for filling our Easter
tickets! Father big gambler from Reno will on paperbacks. Fn: 3-6: 50/ off used: 20/
l PLEASE CALL PSYCHO RIGHT AWAY LOST General 810 text was removed pay big bucks $$11 Call John at 277-0t91 of IOWA on April t9-21 If you want to go break wtth lots of fun, excitement, and 
I 
off new. PANDORA'S BOOKS. 937 So
AT3t36. SANKS from the far nght s1de of main carrels on call Jenny at SMC 5536 FORKINATION! --Mich and Chns. the t Oth floor of the library Wed. evenmg. 
Bend Ave. 233-2342 JIM TABOR CORE COURSE 
FOUND ONE PAIR OF ARGYLES AT The return of thts book 11 extremety unpor­JOHNS JEFF HERMAN--Enjoy your break? Good 
Player of the week: 
BADIN LAUNDRY. CAU t858 TO IDEN­tant as I have a test next week' Call 3615 BARGAIN-HEAD GRAPHITE EDGE WE THINK YOU'RE luck on your double Emil thia Fridey. Love. 
Shalla O'Connor
TIFY AND CLAIM. ASAP if found' TXE.Never been used. CALL 2821 AWWWWWESOMEII Your Secret Admirer 
...LC>.~"P.9.~9. ..................... 

The Observer Friday, April 12, 1985 -page 9 
Rehder, Plantz adjust to new positions for 1985 

·~~~ 
SENIOR BAR BARTENDERS WANTED 
Be one of the few, the proud. You'll kick yourself later if you don't apply and ntiss the best tinte of your life. 

Pick up and return applications at Student Activities in LaFortune. 
8am-12pm, lpm-5pm 
.Juniors : Monday April 15
DEADLINE: Monday Aprill5 
Sophomores: Tuesday April 16 Freshmen : Wednesday April 17


at 5 p.nt. 
more and will run more options. and now that I left (that position), all 
"I see it as a positive move be­of our nose guards are under 6-3, ex­cause we still will run reverses, says plains Dorsey. "The more stockier a Jackson. "I like split end because person is, the more ideal he is as a you're right on the line, and you can nose guard. I think that I could use close the gap on the defensive back more of my abilities at tackle than I more easily." could at nose guard because I don't 
On the defensive line, the Irish are consider myself as being very looking to replace all-American 'quick'." Mike Gann at the left tackle spot Elsewhere on the defensive side, with junior Eric Dorsey. the Irish have moved junior Pat 
The 6-5, 265, Dorsey was a stan­Ballage from cornerback to the 
dout at contain tackle in his sopho­strong safety position in hopes offil. more year with 19 tackles and three ling the gap left by senior all­sacks. In 1984, Dorsey was moved to American Joe Johnson with a the nose tackle spot where he split seasoned veteran. time with sophomore starter Mike Until the fall season rolls around, Griffin. nothing is for sure. With half of the 
This year, Dorsey is making the spring practice season left, the Irish move outside where he hopes that coaches are confident, however, he can win a starting assignment and that they can fit their players with 
.get some playing time. the proper assignemnts and achieve . "I'm too tall to be a nose guard, adequate depth at each position. 
By MICHAEL}. CHMIEL 
Sports Writer 
This spring, many changes are beingconsidered for the 1985 Notre Dame football squad in regards to as­signments for players on the field. 
Many of these changes are being made in order fill vacancies created through the graduation of senior starters from this past year's squad. 
On offense, a big gap that is being looked at is the tight-end spot for­merly filled by graduating senior Mark Bavaro. In order to provide depth an increase the competition at the position, sophomore Tom Reh­der has been moved from a back-up role as a defensive tackle to tight· end. 
"The Rehder switch was a very important move because we're looking for a specific person to fill that void due to the graduation of Mark Bavaro," explains offensive co­ordinator Mike Stock. "Tom's adjust­ment has been good for him and for us. Right now, he's working very hard, and each day, he's getting a little bit better. The competition that he's had with himself to learn the position has been very good, and the competition that he's had with Joel Williams ha.~ madeJoel Williams better, and that, I think, can make the team a lot sounder down the road." 
As an incoming freshman, the 6-7,. 251-pound Rehder was recruited as a tight end. Last season, however, he was switched to a back-up role at de­fensive tackle. This coming season, the Santa Maria, Ca., native will look to compete for the starting tight-end spot. 
"I'm excited about moving back," said Rehder. "I played it in high 

Spring Football 
'85 

~ 
school and in my freshman year here. Playing is the goal · I.want to play, and if the coach feels that we have a surplus on the defensive line, then my chancesare much greater at a position where we are weak." 
On the offensive line, there will be a shift in the duties of junior Ron Plantz. Plantz, who was listed as a guard and quick tackle last year will make a permanent move to the cen­ter spot on the line. 
A vacancy at center was created by the graduation of all-American Mike Kelley. With Plantz listed at 6­4, 271-pounds, Stock is confident that he will step in and do a more than adequate job. 
In the offensive backfield, receivers Milt Jackson and Tim Brown have switched assignments. Entering his senior year,Jackson will move out to the split end while the freshman Brown will move to flanker. 
Both receivers are happy with their new assignments. Brown is pleased becasue he will be in motion 


Tennis 
continuedfrom page 12 
"DePaul is considerably weaker than the Big 10 schools," admits Fal­lon. "We haven't had much trouble with them in the past. However, their coach, George Lott, is a very astute coach, and it is a long-time rivalry, so we'll have to play well. 
"Western Michigan, on the other hand, is one of the favorites in the Mid-America Conference," Fallon continues. "We expect them to be very tough. Most of their players are pretty highly ranked, and their No. 1 doubles team was ranked in the top t1ve in the country earlier in the year." 

Lacrosse 
continuedfrom page 12 
the Midwest so far this year," says O'Leary of the 2-6 Scots. "They've scored a lot ofgoals this season ( 111 in eight games), but they've also given up a lot ( 108). I think they'll be pretty dose to the level of Lake Forest (a 9-2loser to the Irish earlier this year)." 
Attackman Bob Trocchi played a major role (four goals, one assist) in last year's Notre Dame win, and he should do the same this year. The senior has 39 points ( 24 goals, 15 as­sists) this year to lead the team in scoring, giving him 123 for his career. If he picks up three points against the Scots, he will move into first place on the all-time Irish scoring list, passing Steve Pearsall's total of 12 5. 

MOCKLSAT 
and 

Test-Taking Suggestions 
Sat. April13, 9am-12:30pm Deadline Extended to Friday, April12 outside room 101 O'Shag 
Notre Dame Avenue Apartments NOWRENTING FORFALL 
Completely furnished, balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES (good deals for Summer Session) 

Office at 820 ND Ave 
or call 

open Mon-Fri 3-6pm 


234-6647
Sat 11-3pm 


SMC COTHs majors Pre-pre-registration 
In the departmental olfice, 110 Morreau 
The Observer Friday, April 12, 1985 -page 10 


O'Sullivan pleased with finish 
Erasmus Books 
1027 E. Wayne



Golf team places 7th at Purdue 
Tiles· Sun, noon. 6 I block south of Jefferson & Eddy
By SEAN MURPHY was followed by The University of house golf schools is quite an ac­
u-d.. oat of prl•t boob bought, •old, •••rched 
Sports Writer New Orleans, Western Michigan, complishment. I couldn't be more Michigan, Michigan State, Illinois proud of our performance last The Notre Dame golf team raised State, Western Illinois, Wisconsin, weekend. hs record to 17-8last weekend with and Louisville. "We've got something going," 
•

a seventh place finish among I5 Junior captain John O'Donovan said the Irish head coach. "We're teams competing in the Purdue Invi· led the Irish with a 36-hole total of gaining confidence with each vic· 
i LDEiAN CENTER i 
tational in West Lafayette, Ind., Next 146. His score earned him a fourth· tory, and now we just need to main· weekend, the Irish will travel to place finish among the 88 golfers tain this level of play through next DeKalb, Ill., where they will face a competing in the tournament. week's Mid-American Invitational." 22-tearn field in the Mid-American Chris Bona finished second for the Next weekend's tournament : ND!SMC Counen for the Retarded : Invitational Tournament. Irish with a two-round total of I 54; promises to be the toughest tourna­
: Needs Volunteers for :
The Irish golfers finished last Rich Connelly and John Anthony ment of the young spring season for weekend's rain-shortened tourna· were next, both recording scores of the Irish. Twenty-two teams will be rnent behind six powerful Division I 158. Steve Fuhrer shot a I 59, while competing, including all the Big 10 schools, as they recorded an irnpres· Lon Huffman recorded a 165. schools, many Mid-American con­sive score of 774. Irish head coach Noel O'Sulivan ference teams, and other major in· : The nc;a Hawaiian Dance!l!l : 
Purdue utilized its home-course had nothing but praise for his team dependents. 
: Friday, Aprii.IZ 7:30 • .10 p.m. :
advantage in the tournament, win· following their performance last If the young Irish golfers c«n ning with a score of 748. Bradley weekend. display the same scoring consis­finished second, followed by Ohio "These teams are the cream ofour tency that they have in the past, they State, Indiana, Eastern Michigan, and district," said O'Sullivan. "For us to could be vying for top honors next 

! CARTDDN REC i
Iowa. Notre Dame, in seventh place, be competitive with such power-weekend. 

t.~~~":.".~~.~!~~..t.'..!~~~!!~!:':;••J


SMC track team performs well 
By ANDREA LAFRENIERE 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's track team travelled to Marion, Ind., yesterday to compete against Marion and St. Joseph Colleges. 
""111e meet went as well as could be expected," said Saint Mary's 
coachJean Kerich. We only took half ofour girls." 
The hi¢1light of the meet was sophomore Megan McMonigle's throw in the javelin event. She set a new school mark with her II 5-foot, 7-inch effort, surpassing her previ· ous record of I03 feet, 4 inches. 
In the I500-meter race, freshman Tina Reid took fourth place, and freshman .Julie Novak placed fourth in the 400-meter race. 
Senior Diane Hartwig finished third in both the shotput and discus events. Junior Barb Blanchette took fourth in the discus, and freshman Karen Walker placed fourth in the shotput. 
Sophomore Trish McPartlin 

t
• Bookstore 
continued/rom page 12 

do much better, as he was 5-of-28 for the losers. 
The Abood brothers, Chris and Torn, shot a combined 2-of-17 as Thanks Alot Luke lost to Two Rods and 3 Other Tools 2 I·7. llteir team didn't fare any better, as it went 7· for-49 overall. 
The marksmanship of Private Club was a public ernbarassrnent as it needed 8S attempts to make the 21 shots required to beat Soap Dish. Charles Price, Barry Perry, and Rick Brueus did even worse, as they combined for only four baskets on 41 shots. 
BOOKSTORE BRIEFS· Commis­sioner Jeff Blurnb was forced to remove a team from the tourna· ment, as It used a player who had played previously that day. Blurnb warns teams that the participation rule must be followed, or else similar acdon will be taken against offending teams.... Bookstore Court 9 Is the site of one of the day's best games, as Ed Srnierciak and 4 Other Guys Better lltan John Paxson, a Sweet Sixteen team last year, takes on Olympians for Prostitution at 
S:30. Also, Four Athletes and An S.I.D face offagainst Don't Laugh at Stepan 3 at 5:30. Four Athletes and An S.I.D. features women's basketball coach Mary DiStanislao, assistant coaches Mary Murphy and Greg Bruce, var· sity player Ruth Kaiser, and Sports Information intern Jim "Spook" Daves. Clarissa Davis, a top recruit from Texas and a High School All· American, will attend the game to see if Mary D can play as well as she can coach. 

~~.-..---~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
finished third in both the high jump McPartlin placed in three events 
IHappy 21st Birthday:
and the triple jump. In the 800-at the meet, capturing first place in meter race, Novak placed fourth, both the high jump and triple jump, and in the 200-meter race, and setting a new school record for 

t Beth McCahill t 
McMonigle took fourth. Sophomore her 31-foot, 5-inch effort in the Mariclaire Driscoll finished fourth in triple jump. 
t t 
the :iOOO-meter race. 

t t
'Inc Belles began their season at McMonigle tooK second place in the Manchester College Invitational the javelin, and Driscoll finished t t track meet on March 30. Saint third in the 5000-meter race. The Mary's, one of ten teams that com­400-meter relay team of Bianco, t Fromyour t pt'ted, placed in four events at the McPartlin, Kennedy, and McMonigle meet, held in North Manchester, came in second place at the meet. t old friends, t Ind. Kennedy finished first in the 800· 
t Gigee & Boomer t
Driscoll finished fifth in the meter race and third in the 1500· 10,000-meter race, and freshman meter race. Bianco placed fourth in t t Cathy Kennedy took fourth place in both the 200· and 400-meter races, 
t t
the 1500-meter race. '111e Belles' and Driscoll took second in the 1600-meter relay team, consistingof 3000-meter race. t t Kennedy, Novak, sophomore Anne Sophomore Cris Cox finished Bianco, and freshman Erin Burke, second in the I00-meter hurdles placed sixth at the meet. and placed third in the 300-meter McMonigle's first record javelin toss hurdles. The 1600-meter relay team placed her fourth in the event. of Bianco, Cox, Kennedy, and Reid 

The team travelled to Goshen Col­finished second for the Belles. lege in Goshen, Ind., on April 2 to The Belles will compete Saturday compete against Goshen, Defiance, at 12:30 p.m. in Holland, Mich., 
and Spring Arbor Colleges. against Hope and Aquinas Colleges. 


SENIOR MONTH REGISTRATION April10-12, 5-7pm Where: Ombud desk main floor LaFortune or in the LeMans Lobby Advance ticket sales available for: 
Rush Street Trip • 
Great America Trip • 
Weddingless Reception 
Golf Tourney 
Tivoli's Party 
SMCLuau• 
OC Seniors may also pick up booklets. 
•Must purchase tickets at Registration only 








~~c:IC3L~--------------------------------------------F-r-id_a_y_,A_p_r_il_l_2_,_1_98-5----p-ag_e_l_l 
Bloom County 
IT Wl/5 flff\1(.. / 1/NP UKE so 
MIINY OTHER YOUN& fiME!\ICilN 
BOYS, OUR THOU&HrS Jl!KNEP 70 
AMEKICA 'S FIIVOfJrf. PIISTIM6 .. 

Zeto 

Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
... 1HE R0/1/\ Of THf CKOWfl5.. TR/JLY.. 1'185 WfiS TO P!?.OVIPE POPCORN ft.UN& 7HKOIJ&H A 5Pf?IN& SEASON WE WOI//..{7 THE 11/R... YES, WE WERE NOT MSit.Y FOII&eT.. f?E/WY RJf( ONLY ONE THIN& ... 
Kevin Walsh 




"Great ... Just great, you imbecile! I've been 
floating here for hours like a harmless log 
and you come up and start talking to me!" 

The Daily Crossword 
Campus 
ACROSS 1 -Cup of tennis 
6 Scorch 10 Neck part 14 Certain tag 
for short 15 Site of 
seven hills 16 Bakery worker 17 Kind of hom 19 Mardl­20 Work unit 21 Portion 22 Pakistan city 24 Short jackets 26 Overlook 27 Native of 
Bolivia 29 Fra Llppo ­33 Peloponneslan 
War victor 36 Toper's risk 38 Require 39 Penny 40 Lively dance 42 Actor Richard 43 Gadzooks! 
All Rights Reserved

44 NOW concern 45 Earlyalr crash victim 6 Stick for a 47 Highlander's field game 
Identification 7 Optimism 49 A Barrymore 8 "-my broth­51 Vemehero er's keeper?" 53 Describing 9 Dominion 
some dens 10 Subject of 
57 Leisurely Keats ode movement in 11 Topmost: music comb. form 
60 Spasms 12 Anjou 61 -king 13 Gaelic 62 Author Emile 18 Ropes 63 Lincoln athlete 23 Feel sick 66 Soviet range 25 Hoopskirt 67 Wooden brace 26 Aware of 68 Superman actor 28 A.E.S. name 69 Descartes 30 Equal 70 Sow 31 Site of Cuzco 71 Like some seals 32 "Beware the ­
of... " 

DOWN 33 Bard of old 1 Gambler 34 Ring out 2 Worship 35 Square column 3 Edge 37 Potherb 4 Stopover 41 Guthrie 5 Coed 46 Reproach 


Frlday,April12 

•7:30p.m.-CollegiateJazzFesth>al,Stepan 
Center, S5. 

•7:30p.m.-HawaiianDance,LoganCenter, 
Volunteers Are Welcome, Sponsored by 
ND/SMC Council for the Retarded, Free. 
Saturday, Aprll13 

•9-11:30 
a.m.-cartoonRec, Logan Center, Volunteers Are Welcome, Sponsored by ND/SMC Council for the Retarded, Free. 

•I 
p.m. -CollegiateJazz Festh>al, Stepan Cen­ter, 53. 

•7 
p.m.-Piano Recital, Glenda Ramirez, Reci­tal Hall, Crowley Hall of Music, Sponsored by Notre Dame Department of Music. •7:30p.m.-CollegiateJazzFesth>al,Stepan Center, 54. 


Thursday's Solution 


TV Tonight 
Sunday,Apri114 
•11 
a.m. -Spanish Mass, Farley Chapel, All Welcome. 

•4 
p.m.-GuestFlute Recital, Lyon Leifer, An· nenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by Notre Dame Department of Music. 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Southern fried chicken Make your own burrito platter Braised tofu casserole 
Saint Mary's Batter fried fish Patty melts Cheese omlets Polemtapie 
-

48 Gods: Lat. 50 Stated one's 
mind 52 Makes sport of 54 Los Angeles 
athlete 55 50: Fr. 56 Presumed 57 Coted'­58 Director 
Schary 59 Author Milne 60 Family or shoe 64 Single 65 Poseidon's 
domain 
6:00p.m. 6:30p.m. 7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 

16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 
16 NBC Nightly News 
22 CBS Evening News 
28 ABC's World News Tonight 
16 M*A*S*H 

22 Three's Company 
28 Jeopardy 
16 Barney Miller 

22 WKRP in Cincinnati 
28 Wheel of Fortune 
16 Code Name: Foxfire 
22 Detective in the House 
28 Webster 

34 Washington Week in Review 
28 Mr. Belvedere 

34 Wall Street Week 
9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10:00p.m. 
ll:OOp.m. 
11:30p.m. 
11:45p.m. !2:00a.m. 12:30p.m. 

16 Half-Nelson 22 Dallas 28 Benson 34 Great Performances 28 Off the Rack 16 Miami Vice 22 Falcon Crest 28 Matt Houston 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 Body Electric 16 Tonight Show 22 Masters Highlights 28 ABC News Nightline 34 Movie 22 Movie 28 Love Connection 16 Friday Night Videos 

,~-------~----~---­

By NICK SCHRANTZ 
Sports Writer 
The 14th annual Bookstore Bas· kctball Tournament completed its third day with 40 teams advancing to the second round, while 40 others must wait until next year. 
Red Barons proved itself as one of the teams to beat as it shot down In­dira Gandhi and 4 Guys Who Can Shoot by a 21-10 score. Marty Roddy employed a deadly hook shot and a strong inside game to make I 1-of-16 from the floor. Varsity basketball player Casey Newell only hit on four of ten shots, but Tom Antonini and John Stein each sank three hoops to contribute to the victory. 
Still Virtually Unknown made a name for itself in easily handling Pits by a 21· 7 score. Jim Reed poured in six ha~kets, while Dave Machtolf and Mike Za~ke each added five for the winners. 
Shysters, another seeded team, out-fought '11le Bully Bunch by the score of 2 1-1 5. Tom Lange popped in nine shots on only 14 attempts, while David Corrigan added seven
• 

baskets. 
Two Ionic, Two Doric, and One Early Corinthian blasted Campus United by a 21-4 score. Two Ionic... 
made an incredible 21-of.29 from the field, as varsity player Barry 
The Observer/Vic Guarino 

john Stein of Red Barom looks to drive on Fran O'Malley of 
Spencer hit on seven of his eight
hutira Gandhi and 4 Guys That Can Shoot infirst-round Bookstore 
shotsand Dave Sassano was a perfect
action yesterday afternoon Stein and teammate Bubba Cunning­
five-for-five.
bam (at right) helped the Red Barons to a 21-10 win on the 
We're Only Here For the Beer

Bookstore courts. Nick Schrantz details yesterday's action at right. 
wasn't there for the basketball as 
Friday, April 12, 1985 -page 12 

Red Barons take first-round Bookstore game convincingly 
Men's tennis team looks to rebound today vs. DePaul 
By MARlY BURNS 
Sports Writer 
'11lc Big I 0, that ancient con­glomerate ofbig midwestern univer· sities, ha~ been nothing but big trouble this season for the Notre Dame men's tennis team. Wednes­day afternoon at Ann Arbor, Mic­higan, the Irish suffered their third straight defeat to competition from the Big I 0, as Michigan cruised to an easy 9-0 victory. Prior to the Mic­higan match, the Irish had fallen to Indiana, 5-2, and then to Ohio State, who drubbed the Irish by an 8-1 margin. 
Irish coach Tom Fallon and his 14­9 tennis squad can now take big con­solation in the fact that they will play two teams that are not members of the Big I 0. The Irish will play host to DePaul this afternoon at 3 p.m., before traveling to Western Mic­higan on Sunday for their match against the Broncos. 
Although both DePaul and West· ern Michigan are capable of giving the Irish a tough time, they do not figure to play as well as did Michigan on Wednesday. The Wolverines simply tore into the Irish, drawing blood immediately on Notre Dame's No. I singles player, Joe Nelligan. The junior captain tried to rebound from his 6-3 loss in the first set, but he did not have enough to tame his opponent, Jim Sharton, as he went down 6-3, 6-2. No. 2 singles player Mike Gibbons then tried to rally the Irish, but he fell short also, 7-5, 6-2. 
After those losses, Fallon was dis­appointed, but not upset with his two players. 
"Michigan's Jim Sharton is prob­ably the number-one player in the Big I 0 right now," says Fallon. "Also, Gibbon's opponent played very well. They were just too tough for us." 
When the Michigan contest was all over, the Irish had lost all six 


Lacrosse team takes on MLA rival Wooster 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
lbe Notre Dame lacrosse team will try to extend its Midwest Lacrosse Association record to 4-0 tomorrow when it travels to Wooster, Ohio, to take on the Fight­ing Scots of the College of Wooster. 
'Inc contest will mark the begin­ning of a tough MLA road schedule for the Irish who also must play away games with Denison, Michigan State and Ohio State. Because Rich O'Leary's squad has a poor 1-5 record on the road this season, the team's chances of repeating as con· ference champions could hinge on its ability to win away from Cartier Field. 
"The fact that we're playing on the road makes this game very impor­tant," says O'Leary, who is hoping his team can win its I Oth straight MLA game tomorrow. "We haven't won yet on the road in the Midwest, so we need to show that we can do 
it." 
In order to win, though, Notre Dame will have to beat Wooster on the same field where the Scots han­dled the Irish, 22-16, two years ago. In that game, Notre Dame could not keep Wooster's offense from wiping out a four-goal Irish lead. 
The high-scoring Scots also will have revenge on their minds after dropping an I 1-6 game to Notre Dame at Cartier last year. 

"More than likely, Wooster will be the toughest team we've played in 
see LACROSSE, page 9 

they were clobbered by Tofu Vegetables I by another 21-4 score. Bill Zadell and Matt Hanley eAch connected on six shots to lead Tofu Vegetables I to a fine 21-of·.:U shoot­ing performance. Tofu Vegetables I also displayed a fine defense, as it held its opponents to only 16 shots. 
Next Thursday's second round game between Tofu Vegetabales I and 2 Ionic, 2 Doric, and l Early Corinthian has shaped into one of the top second round games, as each team was impressive in their big vic· tories yesterday. 
6Th Bookstore 

~~,, )(1\f 
·-\ 
~--:;_; \ 

Ideal weather conditions, with warm temperatures and no wind, prevailed throughout the after­noon's games. lbe fine weather con­tributed to several fine shooting performances. 
Steve Nicgorski of Let's Go Crazy did just that and poured in 14 bas· kets on only 20 shots. His 14 points tied for the high of the day, and en· abled his team to easily defeat Bink by a 21·10 score. 
Pee Wee and the Wee Bees flew high in beating Big Dan and the Eight Balls 21-3. George Hardart shot 8-of­1 0 while Dave Adams added seven to lead the victors' 21-of-34 shoot­ing. 
Rehabilitate and Rebuild felt the 
rath of Raging Ray's CPA's and went 
down to defeat by an embarassing 
21·3 score. The victor's connected 
on 21-of.42 shots, but the losers had 
no hope of winning as they only at· 
tempted 2 I shots. 
Mrosky had good reason to leave his team, as Abandoned By Mrosky fell to The llncoachables hy a .21-8 score. The llncoachahles lllust have been taught by somebody, as they poured in 21 baskets on 35 shots, and held their opponents to only 24 shots. 
Bernie Goetz and the Subway Alumni lost in a close shootout to Hey, Shi· Happens by a 21·19 score. While Bernard Goetz shot four-of· f(mr in his hattle,John Vrdolyak also had a fine day in gunning down 14· of-25 shots for the losers. 
John Murphy's Slime Train VI needed 69 shots to get their 2 I has­kets, hut that was good enough to defeat 9 Kidneys hy a close 2 I ·19 score. 
Negative gets the award for the worst shooting of the day, hut it somehow was able to deny a victory to You Can't Always Get What You Want by a 21-19 score. Negative needed 94 shots in order to win, while the losers still couldn't win after taking 77 shots. Dave Wolf only made one ba~kct in I 5 attempts, while Corey Hutchison could only contribute three ba~kcts after shoot· ing 22 times. John Wackowski didn't 
see BOOKSTORE, page 10 
singles matches, and all three doubles matches. In one of those doubles matches, Notre Dame's No. 2 doubles team of David Obert and Tom Grier made a valiant effort to ruin Michigan's shutout hopes, but they eventually gave way 6-7,6-3, 6­2. 
Fallon, needless to say, was anx­ious to get away from the Big l 0 for awhile. 
"The Big 1 0 is very tough this year," notes the 29th-year Irish men­tor. "Michigan is one of the five teams that could win the confer· ence. They were simply too good for us. The guys played pretty well, but it was just a combination of our lack ot experience, and the fact that the Big 10 is too tough." 

The Irish will not have to worry about the Big 10 for a couple of games, but the problem with the lack ofexperience is one that, unfor­tunately, cannot be dodged through the schedule. Two freshmen, Dan Walsh and Paul Daggs, have been called on by Fallon to play key roles for this year's squad, and No. 5 singles player Tom Grier, although a sophomore, is playing for the first year on the squad, after playing on the B-team last year. 
"Ourproblem seems to be that we have a lot of new faces on the squad," says Fallon. "We're getting experience the hard way. I do think that we're improving with each game though. We're making mistakes but we're learning from them." 
Fallon hopes that the Irish learned well from their competent foes from the Big I 0, as they may need every· thing possible to get by a talented Western Michigan team. But before the Irish can worry about that match with the Broncos, they must put away Catholic-rival DePaul. Looking ahead to these two matches, Fallon seems confident, especially con· cerning the DePaul contest. 
see TENNIS, page 9 




Baseball team gets timely hitting, solid relief in doubleheader sweep 
By CHUCK FREEBY 
Sports writer 

At times this year, the Irish baseball team has had timely hitting. At times, the Irish have had fine relief pitching. Yesterday, the Irish finally had both those ingredients at the same time and turned it into a doubleheader sweep of visiting Bethel, 9-6 and 8-5, at Jake Kline Field. 
The bullpen was the key for the 9-1 5-1 Irish, as Jason Schomer and Steve Powell each came in early to record their first wins of the year. In the opener, Schomer had some rough going relieving starter Mark Watzke in the fourth. However, the senior fireman settled down after that inning, giving up only three singles the rest of the way. In the nightcap, Powell pitched 3-1/3 innings of shutout relief, until the Pilots notched three runs in the seventh. 
Irish skipper Larry Gallo was pleased with his bul· !pen's performance. "The kids came in and threw strikes, and that's what got the job done." 
While the bullpen held thing.<> in check, the Irish bats rallied for come-from-behind efforts in both games. In game one, the Irish took control with four runs in the fifth, two scoring on Mike Doming's bases-loaded double. Mike Trudeau also contributed to the Irish cause with three RBI. 
In game two, the Irish also benefitted from a four-
run outburst, this one coming in the third. Ifwalking 
is good for the heart, the Irish should be extremely 
healthy now, as four bases on balls helped the inning 
along, two of them coming with the bases loaded. 
Tom Shields and Mike McNeill each drove in a pair of 
runs, as four Irish players collected two hits. 
"We've had difficulty scoring runs at times this year," commented Gallo. "We've been getting men on base, and today we got the key hits. We got a good effort from people like Tom Shields who had sore shoulder and Jackie Moran who was sick as a dog, but still played. That's the kind of leadership we've been looking for." 
Notre Dame now prepares for its first Midwestern City Conference action this weekend, when the defending North division champion Xavier Mus­keteers come toJake Kline Field for twinbills on Sat· urday and Sunday beginning at noon. Gallo Is well aware of the task ahead for his club. 
"This weekend is a key for us this year," remarks the Irish mentor. "Xavier likes to run a lot, and has a veteran ball team. We're going to have to get some good outings from our staff, and keep the bats going." 
Probable starters for the Irish will be Buster Lopes (2-3, 7.36 ERA) and Kevin Chenail ( 1-0, 0.75 ERA) on Saturday. On Sunday, Brad Cross (0-3, 8.14 ERA) andJoe Dobosh (0-3, 8.21 ERA) should get the nod. 




