
--------~--------------------------------~~--~~--­
Curriculum changes -page 6 


'Presidential hopeful' receives Distinguished Student award for '85 
VOL XIX, NO. I 26 MONDAY, APRIL 15, 1985 

Academic C9uncil to re-examine ROTC requirements 
Editor's Note: Last spring, the ad roaming wooded areas nearby. That is the backdrop when the stitute for one technical elective in from one-semester to two the re­hoc University Curriculum Com­And on top ofall that, the classes. Academic Council meets today to the engineering curriculum, and quirement for history or social sci­mittee released a 17-page report A ROTC student is automatically consider a proposal intended to three more credits ofROTC to sub­ence. outlining major changes in Notre required to add one to three credit make military life for engineering stitute for one of the University re­During preliminary discussions Dame's core curriculum. The Aca­hours onto his or her schedule students less tedious. quirements in history or social of the council, ROTC officers demic Council votes on the recom­every semester. "Ibe recommendation, written science. voiced concern that the additional mendations this afternoon. But, Army cadet Trent Rock, a junior by a subcommittee of engineering The ROTC proposal, however, class would only aggravate the new requirements could further mechanical engineering major, deans and ROTC officers, would al­only becomes germane if the Aca­
see ROTC, page 4 ta.x busy ROTC students, and the knows the story well. "I take 12 low three credits of ROTC to sub-demic Council votes-to expand following story examines a pro­hard core engineering credits, posal that might help. three liberal arts credits, and three 

Council votes today on proposal 
By MAURA MANDYCK 
StaffReporter 
By BOB VONDERHEIDE cit may not come to praise some of students to take a history class.

~urricu~um

When students decide to join Senior StaffReporter the proposals, but to bury them. A report by the ad hoc Univer­ROTC, time can become a scarce ~errevaew Lohman said that he and other sity Curriculum Committee sug· resource. Notre Dame's core curriculum students are unhappy with the his­gested expanding from 
One time commitment, obvi­will probably receive a substantial tory/social science proposal, one-semester to two the present ously, is to military service for a ROTC credits," he said. "It gets shake-up today when the Aca­which still leaves open the possi­requirement in history or social specified length of time. tough when engineering labs inter­demic Council gathers to decide bility ofa student graduating with· science. But the recommendation 
lbere are camps in the summer. fere with APRTs (Army Physical the fate ofeight recommendations. out taking a history course. says the requirement could be ful­
Cruises. Readiness Tests), leadership labs. But according to Academic Lohman said last night he will filled "by one course in history and 
Drills. and disheartening FTXs (Field Commissioner Bruce Lohman, stu· probably propose an amendment 
Early morning hours spent Training Exercises)." dent representatives on the coun-which would explicitly require all see CURRICULUM, page 4 
Crowd pleasers 
The U.S. Air Force's Ainnen ofNote werejust one band of the annual Collegiate jazz Festival and 
of the dozen jazz ensembles which visited Stepan were the featured perfonners of Saturday night's 
Center this weekend. The Ainnen were the guest session. 


The function of the Student Senate within student government profiled 
Editor's Note: The following is The 18 member Student Senate, In the coming year, representa· part one of a three-part series ex­which will again be used for the tives from each of the four classes, amining the different branches of 1985-86 year, is composed of a Hall Presidents' Council, Judicial studentgovernmentand theirfunc­widely varying collection of leaders Board, Student Activities Board, stu­tions within student goz•ernment. from the most important campus dent body offices, and senate dis­Today's installment focuses on the tricts will be on the senate, which is StudentSenate. not viewed to be an advantage at all 
by other student government offi­
By the people, 
cials. By SCOTT BEARBY In a memo sent to the Committee Assistant News Editor to Restructure Student Government


for the people? 
earlier this year, past Senator Tom

Part one
When the dust finally cleared after Abood, former Student Interests Ex­the student government constitu· ecutive Coordinator Doug Wurth. tion controversy, the old, estab­groups, something Student Body and Freshmen Advisory Council lished government structure President Bill Healy feels is the Chairman Ted Smith stated students remained in effect; however, how strongest advantage of the senate 
see SENATE, page 4does the system really work? structure. 
By AMY BAKER 
News Staff 
"1 hope to eventually serve as a Senator from Ala hama, and maybe even he President of the United States one day," said Angela Hooten. the 198S recipient of the Distin· guished Student Award. 
She was selected by the Alumni Association to receive this year's award. 
"1 was so shocked to find out that I had received the award. I knew that I had been nominated, hut never ex­pected to win. I know lots ofpeople who deserved it as much, ifnot more than I," said the Pasquerilla West 
~enior. 

Angela Hooton 
'Ibc award was established in 1982 to honor a senior who has con­tributed outstanding service to the University and the community. She will be presented the award at a cer­emony on April 26 in the Center for Continuing Education. 
Hooten is double majoring in Psy­chology and Black Studies, and she hopes to pursue a career in public policy and lawmaking. "I love politics and I definitely want to he involved in politics with an empha­sis on public policy in domestic so­cial services. I would especially like to he instrumental in implementing a policy toward national day care," said Hooten. 
Hooten has been the Notre Dame Women's Caucus Newsletter Editor for the past three years, has served on the Black Cultural Arts Council for four years, and has worked as a media technician in the Educational Media Department for the past three years. 
She says she docs not feel that her involvement has hindered her aca­demic performance. "It's refreshing to do something totally unrelated to school or work. It's like a breath of fresh air," said Hooten. 
Her involvement also includes tutoring for Upward Bound, and Logan Center and Geriatric Aid Pro­gram volunteer. "Tutoring has been a lot offun. I have tutored in English and found it very satisfying knowing that what I teach the kids will help them in whatever they do," she said. 
Hooten has been a member of the Notre Dame band; she plays the saxophone, clarinet and piano. She has an interest in the languages and is studying French, Spanish and sign language for the deaf. She has also been a member of the Circle K or­ganization. 
Even with all ot these activities, Hooten said she does not feel that she has in any way sacrificed her so­cial life. "I've made a lot offriends in the groups that I've been a part of. Being involved has been an impor­tant part of my social life," she said. 
As far as next year's plans, Hooten is still waiting to hear from the Uni­versity of Texas at Austin. "I would like to pursue a masters in public policy and a doctorate in law at UT," said Hooten. If she does not attend Texas, she said she would like to get some type of job in politics. 
"I'll take any job in politics if someone wants to give me one. Ifit's a gopher on the Senate floor, I'll take it!" she said. 
-

~----------------~----­
TheObse~r 





In Brief 
Dressed in plaid shorts and a white shirt 
buttoned to the collar, "Milton Eichelberry" won the third annual Mr. Stanford contest Saturday night in Washington Hall. Eichel berry, alias sophomore Mike Lochhead, competed against nine other Stan­ford Hall residents in formal wear, bathing sui!, talent and question­and-answer categories. Lochhead said the geek theme came from a "little bit of insanity," and he "hoped to get a laugh. There's a geek side to all of us," said Lochhead. More than 300 people attended the crowning, and the proceeds -estimated at S240 -will go to help victims of the famine in Ethiopia, according to organizers Greg Seelagy and John Lavoie. -The ObsL>n'er 
David Letterman received a phone call from a Saint Mary's sophomore last Tuesday night, when he invited callers to phone in and talk to guest Howard Cosell. Anne Monahan, a LeMans resident, was told by Cosell to ask Notre Dame basketball coach Digger Phelps to take her along when he travels to New York this month for a charity banquet so she could meet Letterman. At this time, Monahan says she "has no plans" to give Phelps a call. -The 
Obsen'er 
The bust of George Pepperdine was 
returned to the Pepperdine University library after it was stolen in December. A note attached to the bust said it was stolen to protest poor campus security, the condition of the library and the bust's placement near a men's room. -The Observer 
Of Interest 
"Is the crisis over?A conference on debt adjustment in Latin America" is being sponsored by the Kellogg Institute tomor­row afternoon beginning at I :30. A group ofscholars from Mexico, Central and South America will present up-to-date evaluations ofthe adjustment process in six major debtor countries. For further infor­mation, contact Albert H. LeMay, program coordinator. -The 
Obsen>er 
Italian Culture Week begins today. Sponsored by the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Italian Club, events will be held from today through Friday. Tonight at 6:30, Dr. John Welle will speak on Italian film and literature in 104 O'Shaughnessy Hall. Wednesday, Giovanna Sandusky ofSaint Mary's art department will speak on Ital­ian art at 6:30 in the Media Center ofCushwa-Leighton Library. -The 
Obsen>er 
Network for Peace and Justice meeting at 
4: I'; at the Center for Social Concerns Coffeehouse. Individuals and groups interested in working with this coalition to plan peace and justice events on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses are welcome to attend. -The Obsen'er 
Tickets for Tommy Shaw concert and Rock­
Alike contest will be distributed free to students tomorrow, Wed­nesday and Thursday evenings from -: to 9 in the Lafortune ballroom. A valid Notre Dame or Saint Mary's ID must be presented to receive each ticket. Each student may present a maximum ofsix I D's. The concert and contest will take place April 27 at 7 p.m. in the north dome of the ACC. Tickets are mandatory for admission to the event. -The Obsen'er 
"Meet the candidates Night" at Saint Mary's 
will be held tonight from 9 to 10 in Haggar College Center. Candi­
dates for hall presidents and vice presidents will be available for 
question~. · The Obserr>er 

VVeather · 
High of 63 today with a 20 per­cent chance ofshowers. Lows tonight will be in the mid 40s to the mid SOs. Partly sunny skies with highs is the low 70s for tomorrow. -AP 

The Observer 
lJesigt1 Edilw ............................... Troy IIIi~ 
lJ(•Si;tn Assistant..... . . ...... Antli ~t:hnuck Th<: Obs<:rv<:r ( liSPS ~99 l· 4000) is 1)pesellt'"YS .. . ......... Cathyann Rc:ynoltl!'o puhlishc:d Monday through Friday and Neu•s EditfJr... . ...........John lk;r!'ol) on home f<K>Ihall Saturdays. c:xcc:pl Copy Editor .................... Mar~it: Kt·r~tt:n during c:xam and vacalion pc:rlods Th<: Sports Copy l:"ditot· ............ Marc Ramirt:z Obs<:rv<:r is published by the: sludc:nL• of Vieu1mint Copy Editor . .......John lka•lr the: l lntvc:rsit)· of ~olrc: Dame: and Saini VieU'fJointl.ayout. .............. Kevin 1\c<.:kt·r 
Mary's CoUc:gc Subscriplions may be Features Copy f.'tlitor... ......... ~am Moort.· 
purcha."'d for 130 pc:r yc:ar ( llO pc:r sc· Features Lt~yout ..... .......... Ellc:n MaMako 
mc:stc:r) by wroling Th<: Obs<:rv<:r, P.O NIJ /Jay Editor. ....................... Miriam Hill 
Box Q. Nurre Dame, Indiana 46~~6 Ad /JesiJ<II ................ Mary Carol Crc:adon 
Th<: Obs<:rv<:r is a member of Th<: PbfJto)!.rttpbt•r.... .............j(Jhannt.'!'o llackc:r 
AMoclatcd Pr-<:1111. All rcproducloon 
rights arc rc~rvcd 
-------------~---­
Monday, April 15, 1985 -page 2 



Saving leaves of grass and paper 
Land mines may be next. 

Spring at Notre Dame brings blossoming trees, blooming tulips, warmer weather, AnTostal and a state­ment from the administration to stay off the grass. 
The war against those foresaken souls who dare to trample the lawns already has begun for this spring se­mester. In front ofAlumni Hall, new barriers have been erected to stop things from venturing onto the grass. Not only will these new barriers stop people, they may · also stop suicide truck bombers and small tanks. 
The new barriers are essentially the same as the tradi­tional silver poles and wires that line many of the campus sidewalks, only on a more grandiose scale. The new poles are rusty, higher, thicker and filled with as much cement as was used in barriers that protect im­portant Washington, D.C. buildings from terrorists. 
It is understandable why the administration would want to protect the lawns. The University has an image. Part ofthat image is a beautiful, well kept campus which includes expanses of green lawns. Upkeep ofgrass is ex­
ball game with 22 people would leave a mark on the quad, most of the games are not of this stature. Most games are small, short and informal. These cause mini­mal damage compared to other university approved ac­tivities. Snowplow sod removal is a favorite pasttime of the grounds crew in winter. But nothing compares to the consistent summertime damage done by the lawnmowers and their drivers. 
The tunnels that fill the ground just under the lawns leave areas that are consistently soft and soggy. Each week, rain or shine, the lawnmowers fly over the lawn. They fly as fast as their mowers will go leading any observer to wonder: 
•
Do the people operating these mowers have drivers licenses, and ifthey do, why haven't they been revoked? 

•Are 
the drivers off-road mud racers on the weekend, and did they take these jobs just for practice? 

•Do 
they realize that they are tearing up the turf when 


they drive over it like reckless maniacs? Nevertheless, it is the students who get blamed for 

John Mennell 
Production Manager 
the damaged lawns and the students are consequently kicked off. The most visible marks on the quad today are tracks running in front of Alumni Hall. Frisbees do not make two, long, thick, parallel lines when they zip across the quad. 
Protection of the lawns from the students is taken up by many branches of the University. Security probably boasts the most busts ofstudents who have accidentally wandered across the lawn. Rectors often try to keep their residents from violating the rules around their 
dorms. 
University President 


fii~~···R~~-~~·;~··H·~·i·;..·~n 

Styling 
531 N. Michigan St., 1m. Phone 233-4957 ~ 
...................................................W, 


pensive so damage is not ap­preciated. 
Part ofthe appeal to Notre Dame students and prospective students is the use of the quads. People are lured by the frisbee, lacrosse, football, soccer and baseball games that fill the quads in the warmer days ofthe school year. The quads are convienently lo­cated for anyone who wants to go out and partake in some light exercise for a few minutes or longer. 
While a three hour foot­Theodore Hesburgh has also been known to ask some fun-loving students to move their activities off the quad. Hesburgh does the most ef­fective job. Where people only half listen when secur­ity tries to remove them from the quad, Hesburgh draws passers-by to his "keep off the grass" lecture series. 
If the University really wanted to keep the students off the grass it would have to hire a full-time security crew to guard the lawns, or 

erect eight foot high fences. Even this would not stop all students. 
This year, instead ofprinting up hundreds ofcopies of "keep off the grass letters," the University should put the money toward buying governers to slow the lawnmowers. The students do not want to see the grass torn up any more than the administration does. lbis is our school and the campus is one we can be proud of. 
Part ofthe pride comes from knowing that we can use the quads. One of the sure signs of spring is seeing the quad full ofactivity and nobody wants this to stop. 
Maybe this spring the administration will save both time and printing costs in sending out iL~ "keep off the grass letters." Students will always use the quads. Big games that damage the grass should be discouraged; but the students who just want to have some fun should not have to suffer. 
lbe grass on the quads should do more than separate the sidewalks and keep the makers of silver poles in business. 

GIVE OF YOURSELF in the 
COMMUNITY SERVICE CORPS 
SERVE:  inner-city children and families;  homeless  
persons·  
LIVE:  ecumenical community of esc  Volunteers  
BENEFITS:  personal and professional growth, stipend,  
housing and health insurance  
COMMITMENT:  one-year program  or summer  program  

Please contact: COMMUNITY SERVICE CORPS CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF SYRACUSE 1654 W. Onondaga St. Syracuse, NY 13204 (315) 424-1804 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------=~-------------. 
The Observer Monday, AprillS, 1985-page 3 
Student-written FCEs to make Spring reprise 
1 
1

B-P and Farley to be renovated 
j
By MARK DILLON cient to work two buildings close other projects will also be in prog­StaffReporter together to keep things in easy ress this summer. access according to Dedrick. Construction will continue on 
Is your hall carpeting a stained The renovations, which will be the Natatorium addition to the record of past parties and SYR's? done over the summer and com­Athletic and Convocation Center. Are the walls in your room in des­pleted by the start of the 1985 fall The ACC's new pool is expected to perate need of some decorative semester, will cost more than a be completed sometime this fall. flrst aid? Are you tired of double­million dollars. The work includes Work will also continue on the ad­fauceted sinks where the water new wash basins with single lever dition to the Law School. never stays on? faucets, new hall carpeting, repairs Dedrick said construction will 
Residents of Breen-Phillips and to room walls, and painting ofboth be started soon on the East Wing of Farley Halls will soon be relieved the interior and exterior of the LaFortune. Although total renova­of these and similar problems, as building. tion of the student center will not their dorms are scheduled for be completed until 1986, Dedrick renovation. "The primary interest in re­hopes to have the east wing com­
"BP and Farley were chosen be­doing the dorms is fire safety." said pleted.by this fall. cause for the sake ofefficiency, we Dedrick. He added, "Changing flre "All the work, both renovation try to work the buildings in pairs codes mandate the work to keep of the dorms and the construction and because we renovated Lyons the buildings up-to-date." projects, is bid to local contrac­and Morrissey of the south quad tors. The physical plant acts only in last summer." said Don Dedrick, "In the interest offire safety, the a supervisory capacity," he said. Notre Dame Director of Physical workers will install emergency This summer from 200 to 300 Plant in releasing the renovation lighting and change and ground craftsmen will be at work on schedule.. the electrical systems of each campus. So, residents of BP and 
Because of the equipment and dorm," he said. In addition to 1Farley will soon have hot water manpower needed, it is more effi-work on the two dorms, several that stays running. 

RASTA to sponsor fund-raising events for Ethiopian famine relief 
By BETH WHELPLEY Stepan Center. The band, originally April 28 to May 4. The weeks fes­StaffReporter from Ethiopia, is one event tivities include movies, as well as sponsored by Rally Against Starva­button and t-shirt sales. There will Reggae will come to Notre Dame tion. also be specials at local bars such as 
on May 4 when the Chicago band The concert will be the end of Senior Bar and Lee's Barbeque. 
Dallol is scheduled to perform at many activities taking place from RASTA is a group of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students working to end starvation in Ethiopia. The group was founded this Semester by junior Santiago O'Donnell and senior Paul Komyatte. 
"The group we are bringing is supposed to be the best Reggae group in the United States. They played at Notre Damefour years ago, and many of the professors remem­ber them." O'Donnell said. 
"Our first goal is to generate im­mediate money to send over to Ethiopia and our second is to generate a cultural and moral aware­ness ofEthiopia," Komyatte said. 
Tickets for the concert, which will be held on Saturday, May 4 at 8 
p.m. will be sold next week for a S4 charge. Tickets will be available at the Student Activities Board Record Store and the dining halls. 
All proceeds from the concert and other activities will be divided be­tween three Ethiopian charities: Care, Campaign for Africa; Catholic Relief Services, Ethiopia Fund; and Oxfam America, Ethiopia Fund. 
"So far, the response has been pos­itive," Komyatte said. He said three • hundred buttons have been sold on and off campus and most of the money has been raised from private donations. Dorms, academic depart­



:• Pucker Vp! :• 
• 
ments, and individuals have been 
particularly generous. The group's title is derived from the Rastafarian sect, which incor­

• An Tostal85's • porates jamaican Reggae music as a
• 
large part of their culture. The Ras­
• 
tafarians saw a direct biblical rela­
• 
tionship between themselves and
• Kisser is coming 
Ethiopia . 
• 

• "Many biblical passages make ref­• erence to Ethiopia as a Holy Land. It 

is our duty as Christians to point out that people are related to Ethiopia," O'Donnell said . 
Reggae music itself is associated with the three colors of the Et­hiopian flag, which is red, yellow, and green. Many of the lyrics speak ofa free Africa as well. 
In an effort to involve the entire community, RASTA members will be holding informational seminars at local high schools. Numerous area

Registration is limited: 
merchants have become involved through donations as well . 
RASTA meetings are held on Mon­days at 8 p.m. in the Centerfor Social 

•• ••• •••• Come by the New Orleans Room ••••at Lafortune, Monday, April 15th. Concerns. The group has no politi­cal affiliations, and all interested stu­
:............................~ dents are encouraged to attend. 


By DAVID BROWN 
News Staff 
Faculty/Course Evaluation forms will be distributed again this spring because of a favorable response last year, according to sophomore Mark Rolincik. 
The form will be distributed by the hall presidents and it is similar to the Teacher/Course Evaluation. lbe only difference is that the results of the FCE are published and the stu­dents complete the form on their free time rather than in class. 
"The forms, which will be dis­tributed next week, are highly bene­ficial," said Mark Rolincik, a sophomore from Morrissey, who is running the program. The evalua­tion forms allow students to voice their opinions about the teachers and courses they have taken as well as in aiding students, in the fall, choosing courses for the following spring, said Rolincik. 
He said there were few changes in the form; one question has been eliminated and one was altered. The question eliminated required stu­dents to respond as to what they thought should be the expected grade in the class. This question "was not beneficial," said Rolincik. 
The question changed was con­verted from "Did the teacher exhibit concern for the students?" to "Was the teacher readily available for the students?" 
The other five question topics ranged from the professor's organi­zation to the course work load. Rolincik also said a line would be available to write a sentence about each teacher. 
"The campus response for last year was about thirty percent, which is great for our flrst year," he said. He expects a better response this year since the forms will be more effi­ciently delivered through each hall rather than the campus mail. He stressed that a big response is neces­sary for the students to receive the full benefit from these forms. 
"Most of the faculty and students approved of the forms," said Rolin­cik. He even received a letter from Father Hesburgh commending his efforts. The only complaint was that the program was not done every semester. Rolincik said that the rea­son for this was the lack of funding, time, and administration assistance. 

Bring In This Coupon And Save  
I I I I I  I I I I I  
:  Soft Contact  :  
:  Lenses  :  

r--~-------------,
I I 
Daily Wear $49.50 
Includes B&.l. DuraSOfl, CIBA and American Hydron 
Extended Wear $89.50 
Includes B&l. AO Softcon and Cooper Permallex 
Tinted $99.50 

Includes B&l. CIBA, and CTl 
Chem-Care kits are included at no extra cost Other brands, torics, bifocal, and specialty lenses available at nominally higher cost. Coupon and student I faculty identification must be presented at time of order. No other discounts apply. 
Consult Your Yellow Pages for the office Nearest You 
EJ 

Profe..lon.ol EJ• Eumlr111tlon Av.llable bJ ~ 
• '()iltometrt•t with office on prem!Ma ' ~ ••I. 
L----------------~ 
An Tostal '85 


Serf Auction 
Come sign up outside of the An Tostal Office, 2nd floor, LaFortune 
or contact Jeff Goodlove 4243 Susie Downs 4408 
Auction to be held + Friday, April 26th . + 
-.-.~.................. 
Monday, April 15, 1985-page 4
The Observer 

Senate 
continuedfrom page 1 
are over-represented under the structure and "as a result certain members of the senate are inef­fective and have ill defined roles." 
Healy agrees that the ill defined roles, especially of the five district senators, has been a problem in the past, but he hopes to establish a more exact job description next year. Four district senators repre­sent six halls each and one represents off-campus students. 
"Senators had the weakest role in the past. lbey could do nothing and not be accountable or do every­thing," said Healy. He added that the senate will be looking to define the role of student government for the future, but will take their time and try to avoid the controversy generated over the recent attempt to alter student government structure. 
In addition to the senate mem­bers, Healy will be using an exten­sive cabinet to serve all campus needs with an emphasis on "more serious issues." The creation of a Chief of Staff position has also been added to the cabinet with the re­sponsibility ofoverseeing the rest of the cabinet. 
The actual role of the senate can be broken down into two categories. "The most important function is advocacy, playing a rep­resentative role," Healy said. They need to know how the student body feels about a particular issue. 
A secondary role of the senate concerns legislative matters. Al­though the senate does speak for the student body, anyone can bring up an issue, such as Lil' Sibs Weekend, to Father Tyson. 
Healy sees no problem with not having a veto clause in the constitu­tion, since chairing the stnate still holds an influence. He said the sen­ate usually has a general con~ensus anyway. 
The old constitution will remain in effect because of the judicial Board. Last week, members of the board declared a new constitution 

passed by the senate and HPC un­
constitutional. 

Healy hopes students will become 
more aware of the board since they 
are the students' judicial 
rcpresentitives. 
llnlike the proposal made by the past senate to restructure student government, the student body presi­dent will not have veto power in the coming year. Although Bertino said the veto option would not be used often if the power was available, he did say it would be an effective tool. 


Curriculum 
continuedfrom page 1 
one course in social science, by two courses in history, or by two courses in social science." 
'!be University Curriculum Committee issued its 17-page report last spring and outlined several changes in the University­wide curriculum and the philoso­phy behind it. The changes amount to eight official proposals which the Academic Council will vote on today. Any action taken by the council is subject to the approval the Board ofTrustees. 
Five of the eight proposals deal with curriculum matters. They are: 
•Natural Science. lbe new cur­riculum would allow students un-· til the end of the second year to complete this two-semester re­quirement. Currently, students normally complete this require-


ROTC 

continuedfrom page 1 
problems of ROTC engineering students. 
And when it became apparent that the council also wanted to add a new requirement in fine arts or literature, the subcommittee was set up to solve the problem. 
Army Lt. Col. Robert Skinner opposes the new requirements be­cause he considers them unneces­sary. 
"In Army ROTC. we are giving them (the students) a liberal edu­cation," he said. "We teach history and ethics, management and be­havior modification." And. said Skinner, ROTC students receive 

extensive  hands-on  leadership  
training.  
If  tht·  new  proposals  are  

adopted, Skinner said the require­ments should be waived for ROTC students. 

"ROTC requires more than classroom participation," Skinner said. To be a student and a ROTC cadet is "taking two busy lifestyles and combining them, further taxing that person." 
Army ROTC also requires two semesters of a modern language and a military history course which would not fulfill the addi­tional historyI social science re­quirement. 
Of the enrolled Army ROTC cadets there are 24 engineering 
majors. Only three are seniors and four are juniors. '!be numbers indi­catt· that although the Army gives more scholarships to technical majors, the requirements are diffi­cult enough to discourage the pos­sibility of staying in engineering for four years. 
Air Force Capt. Frederick Fisher, commandant of cadets, said the goal of the curriculum proposals seems to be "a more liberal arts in­fluence in engineering, science, and technical students." 
"'!bat's part of what college is about," Fisher continued, "learning to think and ask ques­tions." But he pointed out that many Air Force ROTC classes are in the humanities and political sci­ence. Because 85 percent of Air Force students arc technical majors, they sometimes carry 2 I credit hours a semester, and Fisher said, "That's work right there." 
Air Force Cadet Rich Mountain, ment during the freshman year, al­though that is not required. Lohman said there is not a lot of student support for this proposal because "science should be a freshman year curriculum item." 
•
Mathematics. The report proposes allowing business and Arts and Letters students until the end ofthe sophomore year to com­plete the requirement, but would keep the number of courses re­quired at two. Lohman thinks this proposal has a good chance offailing. 

•Philosophy. 
The report would require that the two-semester phi­losophy requirement be taken se­quentially during the first two years of study. Lohman said this proposal generated very mild argu­ments either way. 

•Fine 
Arts or Literature. This would become a new one­semester requirement -a proposal with much support, according to Lohman. 


•History or Social Science. The new curriculum would require two, not one, semesters. 
Three other recommendations deal with academic matters. They would: 
• 
Establish ofa University Counsel­ing Office which would "provide information, testing and guidance • for students who are unsure about College/major intent." This well­received proposal, Lohman said, js only the tip of the iceberg toward improving University counseling. 

• 
Shorten to five weeks the time within which students can withdrawal from a class. This re­commendation will fail, Lohman said. 

• 
Establish an Honesty Committee "to evaluate ... cheating and to de­termine steps ... to alleviate the problem." Lohman said there is little student support for this re­commendation because practical, concrete solutions are hard to foresee. 


a sophomore aerospace engineer­ing major, said, "We're already crowded enough. I wouldn't have the same flexibility in my schedule. Although I might be able to manage the extra work, I'd have to cut out everything social or ex­tracurricular." 

An officer in the Navy ROTC de­partment who asked not to be identified, said, "There is no opinion or emotion involved. In basic academic terms, it's a good proposal. It would be very good if every Notre Dame student were assured of taking a history course before graduation and that doesn't happen right now." 
But the officer said he would like to sec the ROTC proposal pass. 


The Notre Dame PRE LAW SOCIETY is now accepting applications for the following positions: Vice-President Secretary St.Mary's Representative Newsletter Editor Applications may be picked-up inside Room 101 O'Shag Deadline is Friday, April19. (Underclassmen are Welcome!)  

Engineering Dean Roger Schmitz, who served on the ROTC subcommittee, is in favor of the new requirements and said, "We hope it won't affect them (ROTC students) at all." 

The addition of six credit hours "uses up all our flexibility and that's where the ROTC difficulty comes in," he said. 
Engineering degree require­ments range from 132 to 135 credit hours, with mechanical en­gineering being the highest. But as Schmitz noted, ROTC students "probably found that they didn't have much room to begin with. There will still be an overload but it won't increase." 
Applications for 
Student Gqvernment ASSISTANT TREASURER available in Treasurer's Office 2nd floor LaFortune Must presently be a Sophomore Accounting Major 1 
If you have any questions call Eric at 239-7417 Applications due 
MQnday, April 22,4:00 PM 

SMC COTHs majors Pre-pre-registration 
In the departmental office, 110-Morreau 8am-12pm, lpm-5pm 
Juniors : Monday April 15 
Sophomores: Tuesday April16 
Freshmen : Wednesday April17 
Looking for a good elective? Look over the selections in Theology (400-level courses are open to qualified juniors and seniors and are not limited to Theology majors.) THEO 307 History and Archeology Joseph Blenklnsopp of Israel HEO 383,384,385 Asian Religions Collett Cox (Mini-courses, 1 credit each. May be taken as one course for 3 credits) THEO 388 Passage to India Collett Cox and (Also listed as English 378) Stephen Fredman THEO 402 Israel's Psalms and Roland Murphy Christian Prayer THEO 405 Mysticism In Judaism Roger Brooks THEO 423 The Patristic Heritage: Jean Laporte From Early Church Through Aquinas THEO 433 Seminar In Systematic Thomas O'Meara Theology THEO 444 Religion and Mysticism John Dunne THEO 465 Becoming a Chrlstlon EuQene Gorski RLST 338 Prayer and Poetry Keith Egan N.B. SOME OF THESE COURSES CAN SATISFY THEOLOGY REQUIREMENTS. FOR DETAILS INQUIRE AT THEOLOGY OFFICE,327,340 O'SHAUGHNESSY.  


------------~-----------------~~----------~ 



Accent 

Monday, AprillS, 1985-pageJS 
Security 
Keeping the peace and halting pranks 
department. This gives them the· "privilege" ofgiving out tickets (as

DaneGalden 
some people are all too aware of), features staff writer and, for some members ofSecurity, 
I
t was a dark and (relatively) 
warm night, considering this was 
South Bend. It was 4 a.m., and there 
wasn't a sound within earshot. 
"Good!" I thought, "everyone must 
be a<>leep." Slowly, I snuck around 
to the trunk of my car and opened 
it. I was being extra careful not to 
make any noise, because I didn't 
want to alert anyone to what I was 
doing. I knew it was illegal -but I 
didn't care. 
I grabbed the thin-barrelled 
instrument out of my trunk, and 
checked it over thoroughly to make 
sure that it was operating at its 
optimal performance level. I didn't 
want anything to go wrong. Assured 
that it was working, I grabbed the 
other piece out of the trunk and 
hurried past the library. 
As I started across the library mall towards my target, my hands began to sweat. Nervously I readjusted the field-piece in my hands and began to contemplate what I was about to do. Suddenly, a bright spotlight was shown on me! Then a stern voice blared through a megaphone, "STOP! Drop what you're carrying!" It was the Notre Dame Security Department, and I was caught red­handed. 
Later, at the Security office, I confessed. I was trying to use a metal detector which I had failed to register with the Security Depart­ment. 
Most people probably aren't aware that the Notre Dame Security Department issues licenses to people who want to use metal detectors. In fact, according to Security Director Glenn Terry, there are a lot ofduties performed by Security which many people are not aware of. 
"Basically, we keep a low profile," says Terry. "There are the many visible functions which every­one knows about, like patrolling the campus, and maintaining security for the students and the Snite Museum ofArt. Then there are the more discreet duties like fin-


Special to The Observer 
A virus, almost identical to the germ generally thought to cause AIDS, has been found in monkeys, and scientists believe it will provide an important new tool for developing a vaccine to control the epidemic ofthe fatal disease. The latest discovery also supports a theory that AIDS began as a disease of monkeys, and only recently has spread to people. 
Scientists at the New England Regional Primate Center identi­




'Hard to believe, isn't it, folks?' 

Marc Ramirez 
Strange days indeed 


Excerptfrom "Late Night with David Lettennan, "Aprill5, 2000. 
LETTERMAN: ... and please, ladies and gentlemen -rio wagering. Tonight, have we got a special treat for you, folks. We on the show 
are especially proud ofthe ~est we've pulled in here tonight. We can't keep him from you any longer, so wake up the kids and give 'em some coffee-it's going to be a good one. (applause begins.) 
Ladies and gentlemen (clap clap), the president of the United States (clap clap), Oui R. (clap clap) Endee (clap clap): 
Endee walks onstage, sporting a white suit splattered with hundreds of little green shamrocks and smiling a huge, cheerful smile. He takes the open seat. 
ENDEE: How ya doin', David. LETTERMAN: Good, Mr. President. Yourself? ENDEE:Just fine, David. And you can call me Oui. LETTERMAN: Okay, Oui. Hey, I don't know how many people 
know this, but-well, let's take a poll: how many people know this?­raise your hands. Well, not many, from the looks ofit. Anyway, Oui, we both attended college in the same state, albeit at different times. 
ENDEE: Yes, David, we did. LETTERMAN: I went to Ball State (scattered cheers from the audi­ence) for four long boring years, and you went to ... ENDEE: The University of Notre Dame (equal number ofcheers and boos), Notre Dame, Indiana, four-six-five-five-six. LETTERMAN: I see. So, you've, uh, been president of the United 
States for how long now? ENDEE: Oh, about four years, David. LETTERMAN: Well, that's quite a feat nowadays, with the govern­
ment changing and all, isn't it? That was quite a campaign you ran back then, wasn't it? 

• ENDEE: Oh, it was nothing, David. Just made a few posters, circ­ulated a few petitions, made a few more posters, pulled a few strings and then made a few more posters. Nothing, really. 
LETTERMAN: Obviously, Oui, that strategy worked, because you won the election, right? Uh, you didn't, like, go over budget or anyth­ing like that, did you? 
ENDEE: Well, David, we like to use the term 'semi-splurge.' I mean, that's what I did. But you know, I'm going to reduce the deficit by unspeakable amounts so it'll all even out in the end. 
LETTERMAN: Well, wait a minute, Mr. President-uh, I mean, Oui. Didn't anyone even bat an eye at all this 'semi-splurging,' as you call it? Someone had to notice, didn't they? 
ENDEE: Well, yes and no, David. You see, the campaign reminded me of my days as a Domer -I graduated in 'SO-something or other ­when I participated in student government. People knew about things if they read the papers but nobody really cared. I think about as many people voted in the school elections as voted in the one I won in almost four years ago. 
LEITERMAN: All right, everyone, how many ofyou voted? Okay ... well, I think I see your point, Oui. 
ENDEE: Yes, David, you see, I have this theory, and it's the same theory I won with in high school, and in college, and in the last election: only a very small percent of the people really care about politics. They'd rather sit around and watch ball games and go to the movies than worry about such things. Let somebody else worry about it, they say. You got a paper there, buddy? Hey, you can keep the rest -just give me the sports section. And if, I say if, I happen to catch some mention of something going awry in the government, well I'm sure someone else will do somethingabout it, and I'll just go living my sheltered, happy life. 
LETTERMAN: Well then, Oui, perhaps you're right about that. 
ENDEE: Oh, I'm sure I am, David. And as the stats show, the same percentage of people who do actually take part in government in high school go on to do the same in college and then, in actuality. I'm prepared to test my theory while I'm still in office. 
LETTERMAN: You don't have much time left, do you, Oui? I mean, with the election coming up in November? ENDEE: Well, that's where you're wrong, David. There won't be 
any election in November. LETTERMAN: Wait a minute-what are you talking about, Oui? ENDEE; I said, there won't be any election in November. LETTERMAN: Hey, hold on here. (to audience) Do you all hear 
this? 
ENDEE: They're not reacting, David. There won't be any election this November. Congress and I have voted to extend our terms by oh, shall we say, a few years or so? And we've abolished and paid off the Supreme Court. 
LETTERMAN: Can't you all hear this? Do you hear what he's saying? Please, Oui, would you repeat that once again? , 
ENDEE: I think the answer is obvious, David. I mean, one of the few groups ofpeople in our society that this is going to upset is going to be the media, because they won't get to create their usual horse race ofa campaign, but hey, we can handle that because people will read about it, but most will forget about it. 
LETTERMAN: People, don't you hear this? Doesn't anyone care? ENDEE: I said, we're cancelling the show. 

Audience goes wild with protest. Objects are burled onstage, small skirmishes erupt, and people complain about bow terrible and unfair the government is. A near-riot situation is atband, and Endee grins as be gets up and walks offthe set. 
ENDEE: Hard to believe, isn't it, David? 
gerprinting for ROTC and other purposes, and handling federal immigration department referrals. Last year our annual report was over 50 pages so that should give you some idea just how big we are." 
Terry notes that the Security Department has 76 people on its force. He also stressess the fact that Security is also a full-fledged police arrest powers. While there is no jail here on campus, they can take you to the local jail. (The accommoda­tions aren't exactly plush, but I hear the food isn't bad.) 
Now, the next time one of the guards at the gates won't let you get your car on campus, or you receive your umpteenth parking ticket, don't cuss out the Notre Dame Security Department. Remember, they're in your corner. 
Above: Paul Fry, a security officer for nine years, stands on duty at the North Gate. Left: The Director ofthe Notre Dame Security Department, Glenn Terry. 
Photos by Kurt Hedinger 



l01portant AIDS link discovered 
fled the virus in macaque monkeys. The animals were afflicted with monkey AIDS, a disease that mirrors AIDS in people. American experts believe that human AIDS is caused by a virus called HTLV­Ill, an abbreviation for "human T-celllymphotropic virus type three," and they've named the new monkey virus STLV-III, for simians. 
"Clearly we have, for the first time, a virus that looks and acts like HTLV-III, that clearly can infect and be isolated from animals other than humans," said Dr. Norman L. Letvin of the Primate Center. 
French researchers who dis­covered the human virus at about the same time as the U.S. discovery call it lym­phadenopathy associated virus, or LAV. 
Scientists from the Harvard School of Public Health have discovered that the monkey AIDS virus appears to be com­mon among a species called the African green monkey that lives in central Africa. 


~i~~~_()__i_ll___t__________________Mo-nd~ay_,A~pr-ill-5,_19-85~p~age-6 
Issue of birth control is 
Curriculum changes do 
not likely to go away 
, ~ ~ 
I came across an intriguing nc:ws item priesthood -makness is the sine: qua non for

not make the grade 
, 
which provided comparative: statistics on the ordination in the church. 
' 
incidence of pregnancy among unmarried
,. 
It's report card day for the proposed curriculum changes at Notre Dame. 
teenagers. In the: United States the number "Iherc: doc:s seem to be a link bclween the: 
Last spring, the University Curriculum Committee released a report outlining
r 
was 96 per 1,()()0; in the Netherlands"it was 14 mystique: of malc: priesthood and the: church's several major changes in Notre Dame's core curriculum. The Academic Council 
pc:r I ,000. The: level of sexual activity in both teaching on artificial birth control. Both the: has studied these proposals for the past year and votes on them today. 
groups was said to be the same. The: lower fig-clerical and the: married state: are affected by The proposals are supposed to insure a well-rounded liberal education for 
this archaic contlguration. For the priest it in­students in all majors. 'Ibis is a noble cause. Regardless of intent, the question 
volves sacritlcial sexual denial; for the: married remains: Will these changes really give Notre Dame students a better liberal 
Ann Pettifer person, unhindered sexual c:xprc:ssion and 
~ 
education? 

fecundity become the: sanctioned way to par­
r 
ticipate: in this cultic mystery.
guest column 

• The history/social science proposal 
~ 
All this makes sense when it is sc:en in its history or social science. The curriculum committee, realizing that some stu­
Presently, the core curriculum requires a minimum of one course in either 
historical context "Inc provenance: of Catho­dents were graduating without ever taking a history course, has proposed add­
urc: for the Netherlands was allributed 10 su­lic priesthood goes hack in part to those: Pagan ing a second required course in either history or social science. The committee 
perior sex education and the: availability of cults and Mediterranean mystery religions,
, 
good advice: on contraception. chunks of which wc:rc: incorporated into
shied away from requiring both a history and a social science course because it 
Christianity. 'Ihesc: cults shared a feature: com­ll1is does not solve the problem of students avoiding history. If this proposal
r ~ 
felt the history department could not handle the additional load. My intert·st in these findings stems from a mon to pre-monotheistic rc:ligion -a focus on 
J 
concern about the number ofabortion~ taking sexual fertility. l :nhappily. this process of ab­social science courses. An amendment should be introduced which would re­
is approved, students who do not want a history course simply can take two 
place in the United States each year. ·n1e sorhtion tc:ndc:d to modify a Judeo-Christian 
' 
~ 
Dutch have stolen a march on us in this area c:thic which promoted an attitude of respon­
quire one social science course and one history course. If the committee wants 
r 
because: they are more pragmatic. They are sible caring. 
to insure that history is not neglected, then it should make suft1dent expansion
r 
sensible folk who understand that what has
of the history department a priority.
r 
been conceived cannot be: aborted. Happily. dysfunctional mystiques do evc:n­
tually dissipate:. Just as the: historical moment " Under the present core curriculum, students take two philosophy courses: 
• The philosophy proposal
r 
While half the Dutch population is Catholic, closed in on another man-made: theological 
official church teaching on birth control has construct. that of"Ihc: Divine Right ofKings, so
r 
one introductory course and a second philosophy elective which must be com­
not influc:ncc:d public policy in that country. perhaps we: arc: witnessing the: arrival of the;
r 
plett·d before graduation. The curriculum committee believes the major issues 
r 
"l11e explanation for this is a sturdy, humanis­historical moment whc:n an atavistic pries­of philosophy cannot be covered sufficiently in a one-semester introductory
r 
tic Catholic laity who, intluencc:d by \'atican thood \Viii be transtimned taken before the end ofsophomore year. · 
course. Therefore. it has proposed a two-semester introductory course to be 
11, largely ignored the c:ncyclical llumanae The probil'm is even some professors in the philosophy department argue 
\'itae -which restated the: church"s teaching During these difficult transitional times. that the two-semester course may not be as interesting. Also, students who do 
on artificial birth control -as a pre:-Vatican 11 both the: Catholic laity and the: Catholic not havt.· room in their schedules for a philosophy elective will miss other 
throwback. hierarchy, unable 10 advocate: responsible: use valuable courses in philosophy and ethics. 
of artificial birth control, tlnd thc:msc:IV!:s in "lhe married Catholic laity of the: l!nitcd the doldrums, becalmed To satisfy Rome:. States is practicing artificial birth control at ritual pronouncement~ recommending cha~­
• lbe sdence proposal " 
, 
almost the same: lc:vd as non-Catholic tity arc: routinely made. Yet. asking the young
The science proposal does not alter the present curriculum requirement of
, 
married~ according to the National Opinion 10 he: chaste in the l"nited States is like: calling-two semestt.·rs of science to be completed before the end of sophomore year. 
Research Center. Yet. these Catholics arc: in­for temperance: in a hrewc:ry. 
r 
The only difference between the proposal and the present requirement is that 
r 
hibited and constrained from sharing informa­
students who now must take either a science or a foreign language freshman 
r 
tion with unmarried teenagers. They seem
year will have the option of taking a free elective rather than a science or a
r paralyzed -stuck with categories of licit and Capitalism thrives on consumption and our
foreign language during their tlrst year.
r 
illicit sex which arc inadequate: to mc:et the hucksters use sex 10 sell everything from soft contingencies of modern life. It is unkind 10 drinks to motor cars. "ll1c:rc: arc: twenty million
Although this might allow for less rigorous schedules during the transition to 
college, ddaying l 1niversity requirements could congest students' schedules
~ 
lc:ave the modern teenager engaged in illicit suhscrihc:rs to soft-porn magazines in this sc:x, uninformed and ignorant, thus abandon­country' Councils of perfections arc dangt-r­
OtKe they enter their major programs. 
The proposal ignores two other important points.
~ 
ing her to an unwanted pregnancy. ous in this context. I have: hc:ard doc10rs say 
~ 
f"irst, the computer science program needs to be expanded. Requiring a com­that pregnant adokscent girls, residually af­
puter science course may not be necessary. because an increasing number of While the laity sits on its hands, the fected by teachings on chastity, hc:lievc: that
students arc entering college computer literate. But many students who want a
r 
hierarchy agonizes over abortion and at the sc:x without birth control reduces its sinful­
r 
computer science elective arc turned down because of space limitations. 
r 
same: time maintains a silence worthy of the ness.
Second, to contribute to a liberal education, some science courses need to be 
r 
mafia on the birth control issue. This confused 
made more rigorous. The introductions to geology and biology, for example, 
have been nicknamed "Rocks for Jocks" and "Baby Bio" by students. Often those
,. 
state of affairs is making my church a de facto I have to confess to a dc:c:p dislike of our 
r 
accessory to abortion. Such a lack of candor selt~indulgc:nt cultur<: -it offends my Chris­
who enroll in these courses do so not to learn, but to fulfill a requirement.
r 
and unwillingness to engage in democratic tian, socialist sensibilities. I was raised hy a
r 
discussion of a critically important issue, is mother whose favourite maxim was "waste
• The fine arts proposal

,r 
producing tragic consequences. not, want not." My moral predilections arc:,
The curriculum committee has proposed a required course in the fine arts for 
however, obsolete for a vast majority ofall students. "Ibis is a good idea and is consistent with the committee's desire to
' 
Surely sexually active teenagers are better Americans. The fact is that we live in a
r 
insure a liberal education. 

served if they are encouraged to be respon­libidinous society which must be made more
r 
sible; responsibility requires taking every pos­accountable. Unprotected sex which results
r 
Members of the Academic Council face some tough decisions today. The 
r 
sible precaution to avoid conceiving babies in unwanted pregnancy, which leads all too the near future. If Notre Dame wants to offer a genuinely liberal education, then 
proposals they pass will become the required curriculum of a freshman class in 
' 
that will not he brought to term. often to abortion, is damaging our moral fiber. r 
some problems in the curriculum should be addressed. The curriculum com­
' To change this state of affairs, married laity In a society as greedy and vulgar as ours,
mittee's proposals are inadequate in many respects. 
will have to take the initiative. They might self-restraint has become the vanquished
r 
It's time to grade the proposals. Rather than pass them in their present form, 
begin by trusting their own experience of virtue. It will survive as a quaim characteris­
r 
the committee should give a failing grade to all but the fine arts proposal.
'r 
r 
r 
r 
~ 
~ 
r 
r Doonesbury 
r 
NO, IT'5 /IKlT, MAN.

r 
GCaJ/.01?/)l 7H/5 15/A/H/rTA

r 
IT'5 AN 8{)NQIOf CO/..L£6£ OR6Yl KIOS SHAI?IN6 A

~ 


birth control and sharing it with teenagers. tic, I imagine, among people like those in the This will necessarily involve a painful chal­ecumenical Sojourner Community in Wash­lenge to clerically controlled norms ofsexual ington D.C., precisely because the Sojourners behavior. have chosen to resist all the: othc:r quotidian 
excesses of Reagan's America. Members of the clerical caste are often un­rc:liahle guides in this area. lbis is not because For the rest of America we nec:d first class 
-The Observer 

priests do not marry -I know plenty of birth control counseling centers in every high celibate individuals who are wise about school so that children will not conceive human sexuality. Rather the problem inheres children. 
in the phallic-cultic aspect of Roman Catholic 
Garry Trudeau 
5UR&, I'M 5UR&. 1/RC. YOU I'LL 5HOW YOU. 5/JR£.? excuse M&! IS 
ANYBOlJY HtR& 
G&mNGANY 





Ann Pettifer is an alumna ofNotre Dame. 
Quote of the day 
"Time is dead as long as it is being clicked offby little wheels; only when the clock stops does time come to life." 
-William Faulkner 
"ieVVP.~O~i~n~t~---------------------------------------------M_o_n_da_y_,A_p_r_H_I_s_,_I9_s_s___P_ag_e_7 

Campus deserves better than MTV's selection 
prefer to think that their breakup was divinely from Huey Lewis and the News beat her out. fit, it was the goal. Either the drive was forMS, 
Have any of you heard that charming phrase, "I want my MTV'? Well, I want my inspired in much the same way as the cancel­From the outset Notre Dame has been com­in which case we do not need to accept such MTV. I want it so that I can kick it and throw it lation of "Bewitched." I do not want to be mitted to this drive. MTV has been only half. "generous" appreciation from the ever­and get my MS money back. known in future years as a participant in the hearted in its follow-up. If it s!mwed even a allusive "New York," or the drive was for the 
Who is Tommy Shaw? I am sure that he is a Tommy Shaw concert "riots." tenth of the work that we put in, Notre Dame concert, in which case we were shafted. There very nice person, but I did not go and see all It is not just me, either. Friends, neighbors, could easily be the host to that top concert can be no middle ground. acquaintances, and almost anyone else who that we were promised. Well, this wonderful news has certainly has to smell the ethanol is not excited about Do not tell me that the present choice is the made my spring. I can only wait for next year's
Dave Kroeger this. We won. Aren't we supposed to walk most prestigious of those who expressed an drive because I cannot get a rebate from this down an aisle with a bouquet of flowers or interest in the MS drive. MTV is one of the year. Do not worry. In 1986 I plan to mail my something? To be quite honest, I would rather most influential, if not the most influential, contribution directly to MS so I am not con­
Wednesday's child 
sit this one out, thank you. presence in the music world today. It has the nected at all with MTV, whose only real pur· Oh, I have no personal vendetta against power to make performers sink or swim. MTV pose is to turn Martha Quinn into a yuppie. those dances for nothing. I wanted to see the Tommy Shaw, but I wonder how one can put could definitely do better if it wanted to. Neither will I attend the concert, as next year Boss or Cyndi Lauper. I do not care, just so out a top concert with only one album? After Oh, pardon me. I forgot. We were supposed the "top" acts will probably be Johnny Olsen long as they were at least a member ofUSA for all, it only makes sense that "top" performers to be doing this for MS. That premise was and Don Pardo. In the meantime, I just want to Mrica. Mter that, my interest fades sharply. do not need to scrape for' material. Yet, what faulty from Day One. Millions forMS gained its take the opportunity to say,"Thank you, MTV" 
I do not want the entire nation to see me do I know? Mter all, I had no idea until last momentum from the competitive aspect. The Oh, and Marquette, do not worry because we watching Tommy Shaw. I do not even know week that Tommy Shaw was a "top" per­object was more to beat Michigan and Mar­will donate our money to your effort next the words to his songs, no matter how few former. I anxiously look forward to seeing quette, not MS, and do not pretend that it was year they are. I do not want to hear "Girls With who some of those other highly-rated otherwise. Why · were we consistently David Kroeger is a sophomore in the Col­
Guns" more than one time, yet I fear that I performers are. Who knows? Maybe Letoya reminded about that concert if it was not to be . lege ofArts and Letters Honors Program and will. I do not want to bear old Styx songs as I Jackson will be number two unless the roadies the focus? The concert was more than a bene-is a regular Viewpoint columinist. 

Students should note how far they have come 
An older friend once told me juniors were not sure if I would have couched things in ex­Recently, the Career and Placement service I wonder if people are too concerned with unique among college students because they actly the same terms. had a few introductory talks with members of "getting ahead," and not concentrating were both students and people. Freshmen, he So many things that once seemed so impor­the junior class, informing us that soon we will enough on how far they have come already said, arc neither because experiences are all tant have fallen by the wayside, and new be filling out personal profiles and having the and where they are at the present time. We 
too new for them and they are busy forming values and pursuits have taken their place. A opportunity to attend other informational ses­have grown incredibly and covered much college identities and habits. Sophomores are desire to meet new people and the concern sions in preparation for next year's job search. ground since entering Notre Dame and Saint students only; they are familiar and com­for a frantically filled social calendar has been "College is a means to an end," we were Mary's those three short years ago, let us not fortable with the college system but it is too replaced by long, lazy talks with a few friends. reminded. waste the time we have now on uncon­
One topic we invariably come around to is Talks with my roommate and friends and structive worrying about something we can­our future. overheard dining hall conversations give me not avoid. 
Mary Ellen Harrington Three years ago time seemed to stretch al­the impression that a lot of the job Step back and examine not your prospects most interminably before us. now everything search/future hype that has been building for future earnings, but your own personal seems so imminent. Forget waitressing and lately has juniors worried about their own growth. Ifour education has been a "means to 
batteries not included lifeguarding, better get yourself an internship prospects, especially when they see as I do, an end," that end does not only involve future for the summer to get your foot in the door of the successful examples among their friends jobs, but more importantly the maturation of that Big Eight firm. It is time to make out next in this year's senior class. our feelings ofself worth and ofour values. 
early for them to be really concerned with the semester's schedules; better go pretty easy The time up through the completion ofthis \X'hile a college education is important and future other than vague ideas and dreams. On (while at the same time taking classes that are semester and the beginning of next year will should not be taken lightly or belittled when the other hand, seniors are intimately in­going to look good to prospective inter­be one of confusion for many of the junior considering the future, it is not all there is in 
volved with the directions their futures will viewers) because finding a job is going to be a class as they are presented with many avenues the world. There is much more to being a take and too tired ofthe college experience to full-time occupation in itself. to venture up and choose from. Being a loving, caring, good person than mere book care much about their studies and dorm life. The first round of important tests, like the "success" seems so important whether it in­knowledge. 
Juniors, he said, arc balanced delicately some­MCAT, is coming up · forget about doing volves a job with IBM or acceptance into a where in the middle. anything or going anywhere for Spring Break prestigious medical school. It is hard not to and Easter, and as for enjoying the An Tostal compare yourself to others in your major or Mary Ellen Harri11gton is a juniorEnglish Looking back on my junior year I find that I activities, who are you kidding? This is your chosen field, and often easy to belittle your and CAPP majoratNotre Dame and is an as­must concur with my friend, although I am whole life. better not blow it now. own accomplishments. sistant Viewpoint editor. 
P.O.BoxQ 

are evil people and put them there for noth­ing moment, not the relentless changes going our leaders still think they can cut more fromThe violence in Ireland ing. on in front ofour eyes. already inadequate services and give more to I am an Irish Catholic, but I am sick of In many ways, liberalism and the Demo­the military. We need not go to Ethiopia to see
is distorted by media hearing about Ireland being a battlefield. It is a cratic Party have been in a mournful depres­children slowly starving. beautiful small country, which is great fun and sion for nearly twenty years. In 1966, social What this nation should stand for is deter­Dear Editor: the people are beautiful. It is time people programs a little better than band-aids for the mined every time out leaders mouth 
In response to the April I 1 th Accent article started talking about that. poor were cut back in favor of the "liberal" platitudes about death in South Africa, while on Ireland, I am disgusted that The Observer The sooner the media leaves the problem war, Vietnam. Two years later, Martin Luther doing nothing. concentrated on a small amount violence alone, the sooner the IRA will be knocked and King Jr. was assassinated. Two months after Our nation is degraded every time tht' po­which takes place in one thirty-sixth of a the easier the problem will be solved. that, liberalism's last clear chance to regain its tential talent and energy of a child in the country that is 300 miles North to South, and Sean Evers hope was lost when Robert F. Kennedy was ghetto is lost to hunger. about 180 miles East to West. GraceHall killed. Since then, the Democrats have seen It is time once again, for liberals to get their 
I am an international student from Ireland. I the likes ofCarter and Mondale. We have seen hands dirty, to dare to ask the tough questions live in Dublin, and bombs do not drop all a party that can defend the programs of old and come up with real solutions. around my neighborhood. The U.S. public is Democrats must dare to but does not offer an agenda to meet our new We must dare to hope and to inspire, to tell being bombarded by articles like this one world. the nation once again what I think it is begin­which give such a sad view of the country at For liberals, it is time to put away the glories ning to find out: our futures are bound inex­
inspire this nation again 

large. and disasters of the past; we have mourned tricably, and we have to find a way to advance 
It is articles like this one that keep this vio­Dear Editor: long enough. There is too much suffering all ofour people, not just a satisfied segment. lence going because the U.S. public is Brian McKeon's April 12 article on the today not to regain that essential sense ofpos­And we can find the inspiration to do this in drowned with propaganda which benefits the Democratic Party I think accuratelypredicted sibility. the past we mourn. Even after Martin Luther IRA. The media makes everythingseem so bad uncertainities ahead for the Republican Party. A year ago, this could not have been writ­King Jr.'s death, Robert Kennedy found the for the Irish Catholics in the North, especially History has proven change is the only con­ten. The country is now changing all around hope to quote Shaw: "Some men see things as those in prison. stant in our world, but political leaders ofboth us, while our leadership recounts the same they are and say why. But I see things that 
The Irish Catholics in prison are there be­parties can only see the last election. They for­old slogans. Poverty is increasing. This means never were, and say; why not?" 
l 
cause they murdered innocent men and wo­get the times we live in now will shape the that more children will go to bed hungry, and Franklin M.]ohnson 
!
men and children and not because the English future. They forget polls only measure a flash-more children will die of malnutrition. Yet Notre Dame LawStudent 

=~.~The Observer 
Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Ed1lor·m Ch1el Sarah E. Ham1lton Bustness Manager Dav1d Stephenttch 
The Observer IS the Independent newpaper publtshed by the students of the Managmg Ed110r Amy Stephan AdvertJstng Manager . Anne Culltgan Universtty of Notre Dame du Lac and Satnt Mary·s College. It does not necessarily News Edtlor Ke1th Hamson Jr. Controlfe1 8111 Htghducheck ref!ect the poilctes or the adnHn1strat1on of etther 1nst1tution. The news tS reported as News Edt tor Dan McCullough Systems Manager Mark 8 Johnson 
Satnr Marv's Execultve Edt lor Theresa Gua,no ProductiOn Manager John A Mennell
accurately and as ObJeCttvely as posstble. Uns1gned editorials represent the optnion 
Sports Edt tor Jeff 81umb
of a maJOrity of the Ed1tona1 Board. Commentaries. letters and tt1e Inside Column 
Accent Edttor Mary Healy
present the v•ews of n1e1r authors Column space ts ava1lable to all members of tt1e 
Vtewpomt Edt tor Joe Murphy ~ commun•ty and the tree express1on ot varymg Opllltons on campus. through letters. Photography Ed1tor Peter C Laches IS b•couraged Copy Chtef Frank L1p0 
Founded November 3, 1966 

l 
I 
! 
r--------~------~----~--~-----~ ~--~­







Sports Briefs 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team 
raised its record to 16-3 this weekend with perfect 9-0 victories over 
'Central Michigan and Bowling Green on Saturday. Details will ap­pear in 'lbe Observer tomotTow. -The Observer. 
The Saint Mary's tennis team. won two 
matches and lost one this weekend. The Belles downed the Univer­sity of Cincinnati, 8-1, on Saturday and then lost to Principia, 7-2. Saint Mary's rebounded yesterday to defeat DePaul, 8-l. -The 
Obsen'er 

AnTostal slam dunk contest signups wm be 
held today and tomotTow from 4 p.m. to 5:50p.m. at the AnTostal office on the second floor of LaFortune. Competition will include dunking on either a I 0-or nine-foot rim. -The Obsen1er 
AnTostal innertube water polo schedules 
arc posted outside the student government offices on the second floor of Lafortune and rules are available in 257 Cavanaugh. First round games begin today. -The Obsen1er 
Mary Ellen Milesky, a Notre Dame sophomore from Dallas, will be competing in the Boston Marathon today. She qualified for the prestigious race with a time of 3:09 in last October's Chicago Marathon, her first ever. The Walsh Hall resident says she has doubled her training mileage since then and hopes to finish un­der three hours in Bean town. -The Obsen•er 
Dancin' Irish tryouts will be held this week. A clinic will be held f(mi01TOW from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. in Gym 4 at the ACC. Tryouts will be held today and Wednesday at 6 p.m. in Gym 4. For more information, contact the Student Activities booth on the first floor of LaFortune or call Debbie at 283-3552 or Lisa at 283­2697. -The Obsen1er 
AnTostal mud volleyball winners must advance their names on the schedule posted outside the student government offices on the second floor of LaFortune. Any team that fails to do so by /(nnotTou• will forfeit its place in the tournament. -The Observer 
The ND Windsurfing Club will be meeting 
tomorrow at 8 p.m. on the first floor ofLaFo~tune. For more informa­tion, call Tim at 287-8264. -The Obsen'er 
I 
r 
I 
Monday, April 15, 1985 -page 8 
Whittling away to 256 • • • 
Stepan! Friday's Results i:OO · Badfinger-The Finalt' v. 3 Sluds, A Spud & A \l'ud 4:4~-Swrel William & 4 Other Guys... v. Chaotic Stq»an 1 Oscillations Team Many Manoonie~ over The Ho~~ by I3 ~dO-You Can't Be Pregnant, 1 ... v. You Can Have We Can't Play Basketball But over Bobby Knight 
Them l.rngthencd .. 

6: I~-Goggs & 4 Other Celibates v. llu: C) Guy~ Who UscSlall3 
Stepanl 4:4~-Row•.~oeau's Noble Sav<~ges v. Fat ~:30 · Tri~omy 11 & Some Other Mi!iiplaced 
Chromosome!< v. 4 Gringo~ & A Stump 

6: I '5 -FlankJn' Idiots v. We Beat a (jirls' Team l.ast 
Year 
Stepan3 
4.4~-P.P. & the Nad~ v. Nude Two 

'S::\0 Franlde Says Chow Buthole v. A Korean 
Genth:mao & the Cook.ics.. 

6: I') The Backward Sesinep v. Prepare m Meet Your 
Maker 

Slepan4 4:4'\ Te;.~m Bohemia v. The Union Carbide Burial ~nice ';:;\0 · Be<lreat Expres~ v. Bernard Goetz & 4 Guys Who Can't Shoot Either 
6: I 'S ·We're Wur~chleSb v. The Rude!<o Stepan 5 
6: I '5 90'; Raiders v. C.V.D. l Stepan6 

6:1 ') Too Cool To Move v. <Jravity Is a Myth. the Earth Sucks II Bookstore9 -4:00: One Tide IX'er & 4. v A (i}'necologbr, A Proctologist. 4:4')-'; Guyl'i That Wear Pamyhose On Their Heads v '5 Schizophrenics & Us 
'5:30 · Descafle!'l & the Evil Demon~ v. The Doug­hen)' Dude!<! 
6: I '5 · The Shomist Fire!'! Again v. 4 Dingkh~rrie!'l 
Looking for A Good. 
Bookstore 10 

4:00 · 4 People & A Shor1 Fat Guy v. The Laziest Scum of the Earth -1:4';-Spudz Zaremba & the Couch Potatoe!'> v. 'lbe Ramblin Rim Wrecker!'> 
';.30 · Digger Phelps & 4 <iuys. . v. Your Freudian Slip i!'l Showing. 
6: Ill)· Gilligan, Iceman, Sadist... v. After Birth on Rye Lyons II 
4:00 · The PC Lab Play~ Boobtore v. Arsenal Gun­
4:4-; ·Born~ v. We Needed S5 to Play But Couldn't Get h From Bernhard.. 
';:30 · The Creatures v. Chicks Are Sooo Stupid 
6: 1-; ·-;Marines Who Do It With AGrunt... v. Psycho 
End & the Lyons 1Z 

4:00 ·Your Morher Does Deep Knee Bends. v. Pat Ewmg, Baby Fae . 4:4-; · 2 Dillon Sweetwater Dudes. . v. Wuby & the 
Chair Throwers ~:30 ·Court Savvy v. Pcdi's Pirates 

6: 1-; ·While Rabbit v. 4 Geck.s & Pissy Unle Ship 
Takes Hi~ Scat by 3 Vacuum Effect over If You \\'anna Play Ball Then Bring. by 4 John Henry & the Longshoremen over Big Blue Vein, 
12·10 
Stepan Z 
Couch Po1a1oe~ over Sister Ban & Her Pink RuMa 
Brother~. by l!i 
Weethy's Warrior~ over The World Would Be A 
Whole l.ot Nicer. . by I 3 
Mudd)' Water~ over We Never Practicec.l Even Om:e b)·ll The fa.<.tel'ot White Guy on Campu~. . over Return of the Homewreckers by 4 Stepan3 That's Why They Call Us... over Indira (iandhi & the Sikh's.. ~by I 5 
Foley's Runner~ over Real Men Pia)· Croquet by I H 
Don't l..augh over 4 Athlete~ & An S.l.D. by 4 
PB & Who Know!'> over CB & the DT!t by 9 
Stepan4 Hyper Active over You Should Scr lis When \\'e're Angry by 3 Andy & the Uo~ Stabbcr!\ over Constantine: Chernenko & the Nearly Dead by 20 Crimo AgainSI N~ture over -;Scream!-> From the: l.oh Ill by9 Little W:uerhird... on rhe Pr2irit' over Chrrnen.ko'r; Dead by 9 
Stepan 5 
Tatha:o,ter!l over The: Irish Wrc:!ttling Uub by 14 
Summary Judgemc:m over lnstam Funk by 14 
\l'here's That K.id Fwaydoe ove-r Captain ColosWm)' &. The Ba~.. by 9 Showtimc.-over Diggc.-r'~ l!i Sons by I"" 
Stcpan6 
We Broke Parie1al!'o With Guy~ over Two Bucks by 13 
"lbi~ I~ a lJictawr~hip over Twin· Baked <.odti~h by 
lb 
AgainM All Odd~ over 1!i Guys Who Foul by l 
'l!iSenior~ Without AJob over No Blooc.l. No Foul, We Cheat by 3 Bookstore-9 Grapplin~ in the Co!\mic wa...h over We.-Can't Jump 
by9 
Cubs l.o:o,e! over Deltas by I (l 
Ed Smierci~k &. 4 Other Guy!t.. over Olympian!'> ror Pr~tilution b)' I A Druid's Drunk.., over The.-Boxer Rebellion Rh..lc~ Again by 6 Boobtot'~ J 0 Chick.'> Dig U!\ Now That Wc.-'re Seniors over Sooooof 
by II 
Chick..,: DiR Us over Opalesc~m -; by II 
OM.\ 8 over -; Really Bad Basketball Players, Really 
by 3 
A Sophomore & 4 Guys over Just What The Doc­tor Ordered by 2 
Lyons 11 

l'ttc: & the Drattlinc: Bucket!'> over We're Senior~. 
Whou the Hell by-; 

l.aw !oochool Suck.'> ovrr B'hye by 7 
Buu~weat & Tear!\ nver 'fhr 69e~ by 6 
Yank My Doodle over 1!i Crazy Mother Fickcr!'t 
WUha Will. by 14 
Lyons12 

Shootin~ C. Men ovrr Apouhy & the Walking 
Wounded by 12 

Prime Time over 1!i Farmer~ in Elhiopia by ll 
Chick.., Are Dumb over Purple Vein by 1. 
Tram -; 12 nver Spa,:c: Shuttle & the Muon Shot~ by 
I 5 

Saturday's RtsUIIH src-pan 1 Toe jamh. ()uc:efjuice & over A Spic, A Greek, l Chmk... by forfeit 
l1p th(' Brown over l.uAAaKc by I 0 Spud!'> m•er Cutting l.inguistic!t & the Chebai~ by 13 K..ill My l..ant!lord o\·er Nn Name by 6 The Muff l>l\'er~ over llnc.ligc~ted Corn hy ;'! L>dc:nl'oe Plu~ Two over Jalapeno & the Pcpperl'o by 
II 

~wahili~ The: Final Chapter over The Baddc:~l Ex· 
c.:ept fur Tim tly 6 

Josphu!\ & the: Ethiopian Shim Sham over 45 c.uy!t In 
Search uf a Team by ll!i 
Phillip~ over ~rep A~ide by 17 
Slepan 2 

'S Hor.'!-emen ofthe: Apo,·<~lyp...(' over Zru.'!-& rhr Mere 
Mortals by l 

4 f.AA., & A Zahmhir over The Blowhard.., ll-lO 
You Can Bet We Won't Win overt; Guys Who LJon't 
W01m w Play Wilh Woody by '1!i 
Tc:01m X ovrr I P In Pool~ hy 2 

Armcd & llOIOftc.'rOu!'> Ill over !--urn(' (iood Th01nK by 'l!i 
Me: Coffee: & the:-Non-Oairy Creamer!! uvcr Ho~ Hoop!'otCf!\ by I I ~nowball in Hell over St. Jude's Projrct by ~ Flanner 'l!i over l.01d. of Effort by 6 Johnny Wad & the 4 ~quirt!! over f-:tut-., & ~au~agc:, 
Bc01n!\ , ll·lO 
Stepan 3 

\\'ho Forgm to Wipc over Cobra Corps, 1.3-ll 
If h \l'eren't for Far Girl!! We'd Never Get Sex over Yo, E T by I" Ra)' Meyer, }erq· Tarlc.anlan, ovcr Rrvenl(e of lhr Wim~by II 
Victims of the: Naked Man over Skid Row by 7 
RuMy Mctal & the Coro!loiOn!t over Tom Yoon by 13 
MBA-AII·!'!tar~ over We lJon·t fhrow Chair!! by 4 
l.oKk of Orittlnality over Final Appeal, l2·l0 
c:arnJvorou~ Buu Flk~ over Fun Ru11<:h by J.i Brkklaycr & the Hooper!'> over Edwin Mo!\c:!\ & 4 Other Guy~... 1.1-20 Stepan4 Johnny Bar Builder & the Mouse.-Family over Freehob:o, by ... 
see RESULTS, page 9 
Thf' Oh.<err•f'r ~otrc: Damt· olfin·. locatt·J on thc: third floor ol l..tl·onun<· Studt·nt Ct·mc:r. at-ct·pts l"la"ifkd ad\"c:rti,in~ from<) a.m. until 1 p m ..\lunda~ 
through Frida' The 0/>serr•er Saint :l-1an·, oflln·. lotatl'd on th<·tlurd tloor of lla~~ar Collc:~t· Ct·ntc:r. Jt<Tpt' t·ta"ifinl' from 12:.~0 p.m until .~ p 111.. ~I on dar though Frida~· Dc:adlint· 1<1r ncxt~da• l"la'"linb ;, .~ p m All da"ilk<.J., mu't hc: pre:paid. t-itha in pt·"on or h1 mail <.har~c: ;, I 0 n·nr-pn fin· charac­





Classifieds 
tns r daY. 

FOUND: ONE PAIR OF ARGYLES AT LOST: ONE PAIR OF ITALIAN lEATHER 6 UNIT APARTMENT FOR SALE, NO­IT'S COMING ...... Moonch1ldren BADIN LAUNDRY~ CAll1858 TO IDEN­GLOVES. BROWN SIZE 9. REWARD. MEMORIAL AREA, EXCELLENT CON­MOONCHILDRENNOTICES TIFY AND CLAIM. I DITION 233-9728 232-4528 CHARITY BALL MOONCHILDREN 

.................!... 
LOST : MUSIC CALCULATOR ON 4/10 Two story, all modern, 3-4 bedroom, C/A, CHARITY BALl IN WASH. HALL OR HAYES/HEALY 
Alarm system, 1 & 1/2 balh, Marquene KAMIKAZE JAM II IS COMING UP TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8H7 DUE TO MY SPASiiC NATURE I HAVE district. 287-9103 CHARITY BALL SOONII ASK YOUR FAVORITE 2ND
CALL MARA 4559 
MANAGED TO LOSE MY WINTER WING ST.EDER FOR THE APRil 17TH TYPING AVAILABLE VEST. IT IS Bll/E WITH FlANNEl Expenence the lap of luxury· .Buy our DON'T MISS THE EXCITEMENTIII DETAILS. MORE TO FOLLOWII 
287-4082 LINER AND CORDUROY COLLAR. IT LOST: WEST'S BUSINESS LAW BOOK couch!!This couch must be seen to be ALSO HAS A GROYND ZERO BUTTON SECOND EDITION AT LUNCH 4/11 AT lully appreciated. Stop by 281 Dillon or call HELP, I WANT TO SEE MY BROTHER ATTACHED AND: EVEN THOUGH SOUTH DINING HALL FROM ON TOP Joe or Mark at 1768 LET'S NUKE STUDENT GOVERN­GRADUATE!! NEED GRAD TIX!! CALL 
TYPING GROUND ZERO NIP LONGER EXISTS I OF THE CIGARETTE MACHINE. TO MENT GAIL AT al2964. Jacklellofge STILL WOULD LIKJ' ITS RETURN DUE THE "SCUMBAG.. WHO USED STEREO Then we can atart over again. 
884-8783 TO RELIGIOUS OBLIGATIONS. ,.BORROWED" MY BOOK, PLEASE 35 watts per channel amp, tuner, TO THE 3N PIGS (this includes you too, PLEASE RESPOND, THERE IS A RETURN IT TO THE SPOT WHERE turnlable, cabinel, 2 speakers, good sys­Scot!): Thank you for filling our Easter REWARD IN THE! FORM OF S&H YOU "SWINDLED" IT. IF YOU, THE lem lor nexf year's quad. Call Steve at SENIOR FORMAL CANDID PROOFS break with lots of fun, eJtCitement. and 
WOROPROCEISING • 277-eo45. GREEN STAMPS. CALL DAN AT 272-LOSER, HAS ANY CLASS, YOU WILL 2534. ON DISPLAY. LeFortuna end~­FORKINATIONI --Mich and Chris. RETURN IT. MY IS ON THE INSIDE OF Thura, Fri. end Mon. -Noon-4PM Mch Wordproceulng end Typing 5416. ...............1... .. THE BOOK IF YOU, THE LOW UFE O.y. 4x&-$1.85. Pey When Order! ng. JEFF HERMAN--Enjoy your break? Good 
272-81127 LOST: Lad1es gold wnsiWatch with a grey CAN READ. t HAVE A TEST ON THE THE PICTURE MAN. luck on your double Emil this Friday. love, leather band somewhere between room 4/18. Your Secret Admirer 204 O'Shag and t~e South Dining Hall 
Word Proceumg and Typ1ng Resumes. Tuesday mormng. ·If found, please call TICKETS AnToetal SLAM DUNK SIGN-UPS .. ~And alter cleaning out Love Canal, lhey Le«ers. Papers. Documents Call 234-Jackie at 3688. REWARD. LOST: General Bio text was removed Today and tomorrow in the AnTost81 of­immediately drove the chemical waste to 2380 from the far right side of main carrels on fice in LaFortune between 4 and5:30 you Soufll Bend where they sprayed Jl on the 
FOUND: BLACK, GLACIER SUN­the 1Oth floor of the library Wed. evening. DESPERATELY NEED GRADUATION can sign up to show fhe world filar you trees.. One U.S dollar Will feed IWO Eth1op1ana a GLASSES IN ROOM 113 NSH AFTER The return of th•s book is extremety impor­TICKETS -PARENTS AND FAMILY are the Michael Jordan of SouihBend~ day. DR. HAMBURG'S 1RUSSIAN HISTORY tant as I have a test next week! Call3615 ARE COMING TO SEE THEIR LAST KID Competition On 10 foot rims and nine foot HUNGRY? FREE DELIVERY CAll THE 
CLASS ON WED. APRIL 3. CALl. JIM AT ASAP if found' GET A DIPLOMA. PLEASE HELP THIS rims for those with a shorter hang-time YELLOW SUB 272-4453 MO-TH 8-11 pm YOU CAN MAKE A DIFFERENCE! 2522 OR STOP BY'336 HOWARD HALL. WILL BE THEIR LAST HONOR CON­Sign-up now FA-SA 8pm-1am SIDERING I HAVE NO JOS OR A«end lhe ND/SMC Charily Bail FOUND: CORAL AND GOLD COLORED HONORSII WILL MAKE DAD PAY YOU Monkeys, Hippos, Goldfish and crazy Sarurday. April 20 BRACELET IN 3N HOWARD. CALl. JIM Ill Wanted: correspondent for prison inmate Domer& all live in the 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. AT2522. FOR RENT at Atica Prison in N.Y. Born and rat sed in 
An Toetal Zoo I!! Stepan Cenler Desperately need gradualion tickets. Santa Mon1ca, CA. lnteresls 1nclude 
Tickets on sale in dorms and at La LOST:GOLD WOMEN'S "ADVANCE" Family com1ng for M.A. graduation. water sports, football, baseball, and Fortune record store $6 s•ngle, $10 DIGITAL WATCH ON WED.APRil3 BE­NEED AN APARTMENT Mother handicapped, so especially need motorcycling. I teach martial arts, guitar SMC Hell Elec:tlone couple All welcome TWEEN WALSH AND THE BUSINESS Summer Townhouse available for rent! main floor tickets but will lake what I can and enjoy meeting new friends. Please 
BUILDING~ IF FOUND PLEASE CALL Call2275 for information. get. Please call Linda al 239-6343 days, wnte: J. Mono, 7B-D-238, Box 149, A«ica, Wed. April 17 HCC 2116. 259-8104 evenings. Will pay$. N.Y.14011. TYPING· CALL ANDREA-283-3880 1.0. needed to vote 
LOST a light blue GERRY ski jacket al 2 bedroom apanment for summer rent.. HEY SENIORS' NEED GRADUATION BE A PART OF THE ORIENTATION SereOily al your ilngert•psll New Alchollca The Commons on wednesday night clooe tocampus(1/4 m1lej call2n-1256 DESPARATELY!!!!! WILL PAY HUGE GENERAL COMMITTEE MANDATORY Meet the candidates nigh! Anonymous meet1ng.Fndays ar 7p.m.,3d before Easter bceak. A n1ce reward of­BUCKS!! PLEASE CALL MARIA I SEAN-MEETING MONDAY APRIL 15 6PM ll.lnlirmary, Am. 316 fered if lound. Please contact Dan at Two room eH•CJency, private entrance, 4304. CARROLL HALL ??? CALL CAROL4352 tonight HCC parlor 
1612. utiht1es paid 288-0955. OR MAURA 4339 ENDAD 9:00p.m. 
LOST: AIR-FORCE STYLE FLIGHT AVAILABLE FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR HEY, DID YOU HEAR THE JOKE EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL JACKET MISPLACED AT SENIOR BAR -FIVE BEDROOM HOUSE COM­ABOUT STUDENT GOVERNMENT?!? refreshments available MRS. COKER, 233--70011. THE WED BEFORE EASTER. PLETELY FURNISHED WASHER AND 
PERSONALS 
REWARD OFFERED. CALl. JIM DRYER AND GARAGE. CALL 234-9364. BRUNDAGE AT 1574 Riders needed to IOWA STATE or the U. OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER • UQUOR, of IOWA on April 19-21 If you wan! to go EMERGENCYIII LOST A LIGHT GREEN NOTEBOOK CARRY OUT 'Til 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., call Jenny al SMC 5536 Need emergency drummer' Can you beal 
LOST/FOUND 

WITH NOTRE DAME STICKER ON THE ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. it? Call Jeffal 2469. COVER 4/2/85. IF FOUND PLEASE WANTED Happy Blnhdey Hennee Hacker, aorry GIVE ME A CALL. DAN-2466. lor being late, but you ahould hevetold EMERGENCY!II 
LOST: BLUE NO BOOKBAG IMPOR­TALL, GOOD-LOOKING MALE WITH-uaeertler Need emergency drummer! Can you beat TANT TO GET NOTEBOOKS BACK 1M­LOST: Box ol Maclntoeh Dl..:a. Los! I NEED GRAD. TIXI OUT A MUSTACHE SEEKS it? Call Jeff al2469. MEDIATELY Luggage lag with before Easter break. (Some of the diiiCS Please call Lisa at 3544. GIRLFRIEND. MUST BE WELL-DO YOU SING OR PLAY A MUSICAL BARNES-HIND corporate logo on it. have my name and number on them.) II GROOMED, QUIET AND ALSO WITH­INSTRUMENT? Want lo participate in AnToetel'e Detlng 
Everything 1081da haa name, addreu, you lind them, please call Steve al 2n-OUT A MUSTACHE. IF INTERESTED SMC CHAMELEON CLUB NEEDS Game? Applications available in the 3136 on it. "Loer· btwn~ 1Q-10:4S AM 878S~ They're just diiiCS lo you, bul they CALL NICK AT 1684. PERFORMERS FOR WEDNESOA Y, AnTostal office! Any questions call 239­Tues. Aprtl 2. 1n South Dining Hall. have papers on them thai I need to turn APRIL17. 7688. Deadline 11 Friday, April 19th. 
PLEASE CALL PSYCHO RIGHT AWAY in!! YOU ARE INVITED NOTRE DAME AND ST.MARY'S TAL­AT 3136. SANKS~ FOR SALE The ND/SMC Charity Ball ENTS BOTH WELCOME. Future REGINA RESIDENTS 
FOUND: One, yes, one Kodak DISC -an Ethiopian Extravaganza CONTACT SMC STUDENT ACTIVITIES Vote YES lor HAS ANYONE FOUND MY UNCLE'S camera. Its the really laney 6000 model, Saturday, Apni 20 AT 4561 OR TONI AT 4068 OR LISA AT MARY FLYNN and LISA HAGEN WATCH??? lsbll have not lound my silver so if you want it back contact John or Jell Be sman1Sell your class books before the 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. 5093 IF INTERESTED. on April 17th in the HCC Aculron watch lhar belonged to my Greer­ar 4243. Sy the way. I found ir at lhe Car­rush. Mon.-Fri between 12 and 4. SaveS Stepan Center 
Uncle. If you heve by any chance dis­roll Hall formal ar the Morns Park Country on paperbacks. Fri: 3-6; 50/ off used: 20/ Tickets on sale in dorms and at LaFor1une MOONCHILDREN, a play aboul college covered it in a me111ng snowbank or Club. P.S.-There are only two pictures off new. PANDORA'S BOOKS, 937 So record store~ $6 Single, $10 couple students during rhe Viet Nam era. will be HORN DOGS something, Pleeae call 3300 and ask for used 10 lhe roll of film and I'm getting itchy Bend Ave. 233-2342 All students, faculty, and members of lhe presented in Washington Hall onApril18, are alive and well Paul. If you wan! money or my lirst born or to lake photos of my letsurely pet Hermil ND/SMC c~mmunity welcome~ 19and 20at8 p.m. WARNING: Language In Morrluey Hell! anything just aak! Crab, Siggy, so call real soon' FOR SALE' 76VW RABBIT CALL 1459 may be offensive to some. 
The Observer Monday, April15, 1985-page 9 
Maladroits over "All Right, Pull Up Your Pants; The Stepan 2 Revenge of the Fun Bunch over Cubs Win If They 4 Hoosier~ & A Whomp Rat over Boys ofAuril by 12 Fun I~ Over" by I 7 Your Worst Nightmare over \l'e Paid') Buck.., For I Get Reggie by l 9 
The Creamers over Phi Slamma Jama EvU Twins bv 
jusl Curious over Sal. 3 Bagels & A Canuck by 6 Lousy Game by '5 Bookstore9 12
Results 
Spag.heui With Noodles over Small But Slow by -5 Hoosiers in LC'isure Suits over All We Need Is Rain join Gacy & The Cellar Dwellers over Tight Rims by We Love NO· Right over Not Free Beer by forfeilcontinuedfrom page 8 Come ln. Tokyo over Smalll.ike French Bread by I 3 by4 lyonst1
16 Gerry's Kid." ovl!'r Rafferty's Renl!'gades by 4 lncompretics over Sweat, White & Bluejeans by for-Dangling Manhood over The Herpatoligists by 16 The Supreme Courters over Mogul Mounters by 4 
~tkgl <~ive~ Your Body What It Thirst~ For over 'S 
Lyons 11 feit Not Good Enough For a Real Name over They Pelted US International over Non-Entities b)· 7Guys Without a Clue by 9 Keenan Inmate~ over The Male Bond by 18 Hawaii Five-0 over Power Tools by 9 lls With Rocks... by 14 Lumpy Cheese over Zoo Animal & 4 Guys Who HateThe Chairmen oflhe Boards over Herschc:l's Heroe~ 
Runnin' & Gunnin' Banches over The Air Force Pre-jimmy G & the Spots over God's Own Drunks by 14 '5 Guys With Packages the Milkman... over Disciples Doug Flutic by 14 
by9 
cision... b)' II Public Hairs on Soap over Hey Do You Want a Beer of Chuck Taylor by 5 4 Guys Who Still Wonder Why Barney... over 
lns~ctor Thomas & the Private Eyes over Peter & 
The Old & Injured over Over the Top by II by 12 The Pedeophilic Day Care Center over Orgasm Ad­Geraldine Feraro... by 11the Biological tJrgc:s by 9 6 Shooters over The Dillon Destroyers by 14 Poodle Goe~ to Russia over Doug Flutie & the 20 dict~ by 8 G)·AySyH over Basketball Jones by 6lbe Mishawaka Experience over Household Germ!> 
4 Halfway Rectifier!> & A Zenerdiode over Wild Percent Fluff by 14 Intimidators over Dave, I Think It's My Spine by 8 OneJew & tht' 4 Skins over The Daisy Chains by 8
by 12 
Thing.ot br 10 Kelly's Uncles over 5 Stellas to Go Please by I I The Squid Twins & 3 Bearded Clans over Psycho & Lyons 12Wild, Wooly & Wicked over The Shon & Curlies by '5 Fat Ethiopians over The Monday Night Club by 5 Stepan3 the Potato Masters by 10 5 Guys Worse Than Tim Kempwn over Please, No 
Rat Patrol over No Name MBAs by 18 Last Minute Entry over The Gherkms by I"'" Bookstore 10 Wagering by 9Daril's Go1 A Basketball jane!> over BBO· Bo, Soak.:, 
Rythm Method II over The Unit by 18 Delinquent~ & Our Lawyer over Slave Labor & the Tequila White Lightning over NJ & the Flat Tops by Ron Reagan & 4 Other Guys Who Can't... over TheSpud.. by 10 Sire~ of Oe~ire over The Managua Running Rebels, Terminator by -. I~ Godless Fools by I 1 The Hit Men over Bucky Says Yes by 4 2l·l0 5 Architects over Zeemen by 6 Hitler Youth over The Generic Basketball Team by Nutmeggers over Geritol Express by 12That's What Made h Such a Beautiful. . over Dildo 
Edwin & Moses & 4 Other Guys Who Have to Pay to 17 
end gain Flathead & the Turbulent 4 over Two WomenBlanked Beach. . by 2 
Play over Navel Lint by 13 Ken Kesey & the Merry Pranksters over Wake'n & the Only.. by 14
Stepan 5 Lyons 12 
TomVeblin Stoned II over Four Play & One Lay by 2 
Bake, 23·21 Rand's Tuna Fishers over The Cow Says Moo by 14 '5 Stylemaster!l Who Will Be At the Masters over 
Rhythm Method over Potatoes on the Couch by 12 
Return of the Queef over At Least Jim Brown H.u; A Magic Dick & the 4 Skins over Sl!'mi Sort of Bottom
(ientkmcn of l.eisure over How'.!> Your Mouth?, 1.5· Frank's Team by 14 
Hoop Da Doop over Grab A Sandwich Ill by 14 Criminal Record Muck by ll21 Mad Dog & 4 Men Named Dick over Give Us Our 
Gumby Bloody Gumby over Silky & the Hairs II by Stork & the 4 Eggs over Spike & 4 YoungJarheads by Revenge Factor over The Morey Amsterdam Sand­The Wadwinger!l over Chrb Wa!<!hburn & 4 Other (ireen Cards by I I 13 II wich by 3
Stereo Sale!omen by I 3 No More Next Years over Traffic Controllers by 8 
Stepan4

Purple Haze over "Acta Sancwrum" by 11. Or. Ruth Westhcimer Eats Onion Rings over let Me Vanilla Thunder over '5 Tired Buzzards Still Circling Demented Doormat!-over N delta F. (Nude) by 3 Tdl Ya About... by S 
Rose Kennedy by 16 The Hodiends over 4 Stonehead!<o & A Woodworker Drunk Drivers Against Mother~ over Mental Decay 
Mustard Seed Conspiracy over Pabling & the Im­by II by I" 

Islanders, Bruins and
ports by II Chuck'~ Social Handicap~ over Fed Foxx Tar Babic~ Slime over Cavanaugh Liberation Front by I 1 

Climbing Aces over We're Angry by 2 
byH Undaunted over The Gipper & 4 Other Guys Who Boo"!. Bar over Captain Six Pack & His 6 Shot Pi~St('rs ovl!'r Renegade Nun~ on Trampoline~ by 9 Begin Bombing.. , 22-20 
Sidekicks by I '5 l TB over Air Monyak b)· ..,. Stella & the Tools over Boy Scouts Who Eat 
Green Weinies over Eat Crayons & Color the Char­

Sabres still in running 
4 Rink Rab & A Zamboni Orivc:r ovc:r Mr. Hom~ier & Brownies. by 9 
min by 16 the All-Star by 9 Knight~ of MBA over Big Red Bowling Balls Far What the Duck over Simba"s Zulu Love Warriors by 
Beyond College by 6 14 Associated Press The victory, before an Olympic Bookstore 9 
Bobby Knight & the Chair Throwers over Paul's Pen­Saddledome crowd of 16,683, gave Robm~ In Disguise over Mr. Bob & 4 Guy~ Whipped 
tatonic Permutations by 4 
on C.:hicb by 8 Yesterday's Results The New York Islanders, Boston Winnipeg the best-of-five Smythe
Feeney's Weenies over Ned Hawky & the Four 88s Cathc:rint' the Great Mee~s Mr. Ed Again over Ham­Stepan 1 
by4 Bruins and Buffalo Sabres staved off Division semifinal, 3-1. 
mslt'rs by I o; '5 Guy~ Who Strap It to Their Thigh~ over Wenk 
Stepan 5 The Ozone Ran~er~ ovl!'r TheJohn Holme~ Society. Team by 8 
first-round elimination in the Na­The Jets, who had lost their previ­
Mutants over Wander Indiana & l.ose Your Will to by 14 Live . .22-20 tional Hockey League playoffs last ous three playoff series since enter­
cub~ l.o~e. Cubs Lose. Cubs tose over Blanche's The 1st Source Bank Traveling AU-Stars... over Alco-
Mixed Company over jacque!o Cousteau & the night, while Winnipeg defeated Cal­ing the league in 1979, will play
Boy~. 2l-l0 hol by l 
Bearded Clams by I I 
') Hungry Ethiopians Hungry to Win over ') Schlongs The Chimp & His Big Bananas over Bonga. 22-20 gary to close out that series, 3-1. Edmonton in the division final, start­
We're So·White It's Sick over Melts in your Mouth, by9 Crib Death at Grandma's over Free Beer, 2'5-23 
Not in Your Hand by 7 Doug Smail and Laurie Boschman ing Thursday in Edmonton. 
Sven & the Flaccid 4 over Sex & the Offender~ ... by Rend Over Babe, This Ain't Love over I Threw Up 
Lick M)' Greasy Balls for Old Times Saki!' over Stu­
After the Butler Game by -l scored short-handed goals in the Winnipeg, playing without center
dent Government Sniffs b) 4 N-Care over Ooctor Nai!<tmith & Company by I I 
4 & A Snuff over Hey l..ar & Pete-See You In the Final DSB's Half Again Their Original Size over Skipper second period to lift Winnipeg to a Dale Hawerchuk and No. I 
Bookstorr· 10 4 by6 
Learns Ginger. by 12 
S-3 victory over the Calgary Flames, goaltender Brian Hayward, erupted
The High Flying Power Hiuer!o over Pontiu~ Pilate & Cyril. Scooter & the Salvation over Sk.leed, Barb Ugly 
Chicks Dig Fred Basseu over What's the Point b·y 12 the Naildriver~. 28-26 
& the. by9 WBBS Goes Off the Air over One Way Tickel to giving the Jets their first-ever tri­for four straight goals in the second 
Relax, We'll Do It over The Belt Mistletoe Five by 9 Off over G-Less & the 4 Strings by 12 
Pabolr.oville by 19 
umph in an NHL playoff s~ries. 

period to take a S-I lead. 
Bryan Trottier scored off a face-off with 68 seconds remaining and goalie Billy Smith stopped Bobby Carpenter with 30 seconds to go on a penalty shot, giving the Islanders a 6-4 comeback victory over the Washington Capitals. That fifth and deciding game will be tomorrow night at Landover, Md., where the Capitals won a pair at the beginning of the series. 
New York trailed, 4-2, after two periods, but tied it with goals by Patrick Flatley and Mike Bossy before Trottier beat DougJarvis on a face-off and shot the puck between the legs ofgoaltender AI Jensen. 
With 30 seconds remaining, the Islanders. who have been in the Stan­ley Cup finals five straight years, were penalized by referee Andy Van Hellemond for intentionally moving the net off its moorings. 
Bookstore 
continuedfrom page 12 
Don't Laugh didn't laugh but it did win, 21-17, over Four Athletes and an S.I.D. Notre Dame Women's Bas­ketball Coach Mary Distanislao's one basket for Four Athletes ... was not enough to overcome Pat Hanrahan's I 0 hoops for the winners. 
We're So White It's Sick's lack of color did not inhibit them from defeating Melts In Your Mouth Not· In Your Hand, who played in red, green and orange uniforms. Bob Boucher led the winners with nine scores while Steve Schmitt popped in seven for the M&M's. 
In one of the most competitive first-round games. Lack of Originality overcame a 20-17 deficit to deny Final Appeal, which is among the best teams not to make the second round, 22-20. Mark Vasoli powered in I 0 points in 2I tries for the winners. 
All of the seeded teams won this weekend, but The First Source Bank Traveling All-Stars and Motor Kings, led by Dan Duffs seven points, struggled to a 2I-19 win over Alco­hol. Armed and Dangerous III used Dave Taiclet's seven baskets to edge Some Good Thang, 21-16. 
Top seed Revenge of the Fun Bunch had five baskets apiece from Greg Dingens, Pat Collins and Steve Treacy to crush Cubs Win If They Get Reggie, 21-2. Tequila White lightning has only one player re­turning from last year's runner-up team, but it still looked like a winner, shocking NJ and the Flat Tops, 21-6, behind Sean Cullinan's 8-of-9 shoot­ing. 
When you buy a Texas Instruments calculator you don't just buy a calculator, you buy Texas Instruments' com­mitment to quality. 
It's a commitment backed by a fully developed service network that includes the above toll-free number you can call from anyplace in the United States. 
If you have any applications, operations, or service questions, call us Monday thru Friday between 9 am and 4 pm CST, and we'll be glad to help. 
If your calculator needs repairing, we'll direct you to one ofour 46 conveniently located service centers for an immediate exchange. Under warranty, it's free. If there's no center near you, we'll do it all by mail. 
Ofcourse, there's just one catch. It has to be a Texas Instruments calculator. But then, if you're as smart as we think you are, why wouldn't it be? 
TEXAS. 
INSTRUMENTS 
Creating useful products and services for you. 

The Observer Monday, April 15, 1985-page 10 
Jefferson's 183 yards are highlight of third spring football scrimmage 
By LARRY BURKE 
Asststant Sports Edttor 
Good grades went out to both the offt.•nse and defense after Saturday's third football scrimmage of the spring. The defense, which got its first extended look at the wishbone offense, stoped it successfully. The 
offense,  meanwhile,  once  it  
employed  its  regular  formations,  
moved the ball well.  

Tailback Alonzo Jefferson's run­ning wao; the offensive highlight of the afternoon. The S-9, Hn-pound tailback rushed for 183 yards on 20 carries, including one stretch where he rippt·d off consecutive runs of 30, I I, and 29 yards to finish off a touch­down drive. Flanker Tim Brown had the only other big play on the ground for Notre Dame -a 30-yard jaunt on a reverse that set up the second touchdown ofthe day for the first offensive unit. 
Coach Gerry Faust had his offense concentrate primarily on the run­ning game, but when it went to the air the results were positive. Late in the first series of plays, freshman quarterback Terry Andrysiak hooked up with wideout Milt Jack­son on a S3-yard scoring strike as Jackson grabbed a pao;s IS yards over the middle and raced the rest of the way into the endzone. Later in the afternoon, freshman receiver Tony Eason got behind the secondary on a sideline pattern and snared a 49­yard touchdown pao;s from class­mate Tom Byrne. 
Aside from those two big plays, however, the defense dominated the early part of the one-hour and 40­minute scrimmage, shutting down the wishbone offense. Although of­fensive coordinator Mike Stock and his charges have not been working on the formation for that long, Faust is pleao;ed with the success that the defense had in stopping the wishbone. 
"I really thought the defense did a good job against the wishbone," said Faust. "Our offense did a heck of a job, considering they've only been running the wishbone for three days and they're not really experts at that 
Irish 
continuedfrom page 12 
pecially with the base umpires showing emphatic "out" gestures, but after some Xavier squawking, the plate umpire overruled the call and gave the Musketeers new life. The next batter. Froehle, doubled to right to tie the game at three. 
'lbe Irish came back with a run in the sixth after a SO-minute rain delay when John Loughran scored on McNeills' fielder's choice. That lead was safe until another Xavier two­out barrage in the eighth. 
Paul Mauk ( 1-1 ), who had pitched so beautifully to get out of a bases­loaded jam in the sixth, got in trou-
Belles 
continuedfrom page 12 
ners on bao;e and the count 2-0. The junior standout walked two batters but pitched her way out of the jam for an 11-9 win. 
Adamo led the Belles' offensive at­tack with a couple of two-base hits and a single, sending five base run­ners home. She also stole a base. 'Ibeiss also had two base thefts and a hit. Suess went 2-for-3 to aid in the victory. 
In game two, Logsdon went the distance, posting her fifth win in six attempts. According to Beisel, the Belles played "one of their best ~ames" as they found themselves leading, 2-0, going into the top ofthe sixth. 'lbe Belles rallied for four runs in that inning before it started to rain. Because of poor field condi­formation. So it wao; a good test." 
'lbroughout the spring, the Irish have been concentrating on giving the defense a look at the various of­fensive formations that have plagued it in the past. Last week, the offense concentrated on the wishbone, the week before it was the option, and this week it will be the single-back formation. Working on these varia­tions hao;e slowed the offense's prog­ress so far, but Faust believes that the overall result will benefit both units. 
Spring Football 
'85 
~ 

"(Running new formations) obvi­ously hurts us some offensively, but I think we'll be all right in the end," observed Faust. "As long as our linemen keep coming off the ball well, it means that it's doing some good." 
The offensive line continued to come off the ball well Saturday, but it also continued to experience in­jury problems. Backup center Chuck Lanza was knocked out ofthe latter part of the scrimmage with a sore ankle, which forced newly­converted defensive tackle Byron Spruell to handle the bulk of the duty. Starting center Ron Plantz, as well as tackle Tom Doerger, are already out for the spring with injur­ies, and guard Tim Scannell missed the scrimmage to attend a wedding, so the Irish were thin across the of­fensive front. The return of guard 
John Askin and tackle Shawn Hef­fern, who were out last week with injuries, helped the situation, however. 
"'Inc injuries are the reason why we're trying a lot ofdifferent people in different positions," explained Faust. "We've had a lot of players hurt because the hitting hao; been so agressive. So we're trying to make sure that we have depth at every po­sition." 
One position where the Irish are working to build up depth is the 
ble by putting two men on with two out. Rizzo promptly lined a single to center to tic the game at four. 
After a base on balls loaded the bases, Irish manager Larry Gallo went to the bullpen once again, this time calling in Mark Watzke for his first relief appearance of the year. 'Ibe first man Watzke faced was Shalloe, who lined a double over Trudeau's head in right to score all three runs. That made it 7-4, Xavier, and the Irish could do nothing to change that score in their final two turns at bat. 
Xavier moved to 17-19-1, 3-1 in the MCC. Notre Dame now stands at 10-18-1, 1-3 in the MCC and wil) play host to a doubleheader with Valparaiso tomorrow at I :30 p.m. 
tions after the downpour, Anderson was denied its turn at bat in the sixth, and the score wao; reverted back to the last full inning of play which was 2-0, Belles, after five com­plete innings. 
It wao; one of the Belles' best games defensively. McGinnis led the way with a run-saving catch in cen­ter and later nabbed a runner at the plate who was tagging up. The Belles also turned over a double play to get them out ofanother inning. 
"I was very pleased we had 16 people play today, and our defense was strong," remarked Beisel. 
Saint Mary's will have a few days to prepare for its next game on Wed­nesday when it plays host to NCAA Division I team Valparaiso. The game is scheduled for a 3:30 p.m. start. 
quarterback spot, where freshmen Andrysiak and Byrne got the bulk of the playing time yesterday. Neither threw often, however -Andrysiak connected on three offive passes for 68 yards and Byrne hit on three of six for 63 yards. Freshman Pat Pesavento completed both of his pass attempts for 27 yards. 
"We haven't worked a lot on pa-;s blocking because we've been con­centrating on the option and the wishbone for the benefit of the defense," explained Faust. "It's im­portant that the offensive linemen get to know each other well for us to work on the passing game, and up until now we've had a mixture of players on the line." 
The defense put good pressure on the quarterbacks all afternoon. Byrne wao; sacked five times, and Andrysiak was dragged down once. IRISH ITEMS -Placekicker Pat Chura booted a 34-yard field goal and added an extra point in the scrimmage... John Carney will not be doing much kicking this spring because of a stretched leg muscle which he suffered last week. .. Quar­terback Steve Beuerlein continues to undergo tests on his injured shoulder. It is doubtful that he will play this spring, although no official decision has been made... This Sat­urday will be the "steak and beans" scrimmage, when the winners eat steak and the losers get beans. The team captains will pick the sides for that scrimmage on Thursday.... 


Notre Dame Avenue Apartments 
NOWRENTING FORFALL 
Completely furnished, balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES 
(good deals for Summer Session) Office at 820 ND Ave 
or call 
open Mon-Fri 3-6pm 234-6647
Sat ll-3pm 

Kate Herbert 
... 


.. a sweetie 
Happy Birthday! 21st 
Hooray! Only one more year ' and you'll be seU-supporting' 
Love, two elderly Oregonians 
SENIOR BAR BARTENDERS WANTED 
Be one of the few, the proud. 
You'll kick yourself later if you 
don't app~y and ntiss the best tinte of your life. 
Pick up and return applications at Student Activities in LaFortune. 
DEADLINE: Wednesday
Aprill7 at 5 p.nt. 
---~------~-~~ ~----------------~ 
~c:tcJl.at~-------------------------------------M--on_d_a_y,_A_p_ri-ll_s_,_19_8_s___
p_ag_e_l_l 

Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
Win or lose, I love doing this." 


The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 
1 Upright  
6 Poker holding  
1 0 Behind for  
Popeye  
13 Spinner  
14 She: Fr.  
15 Muse of history  
16 Axis country  
17 Beauty need  
19 Sudden drop In  
temperature  
21 Votes in  
22 Mythical deity  
23 Lodge group  
24 Coiled yarn  
26 Ice bag  
30 Russ. city  
31 "Wizard of Oz"  
dog  
32 Scary sound  
33 Thermo or rheo  
follower  
34 Dick­ 
(comic tee)  
35 Gives one the  
pink slip  
36 Gr. letter ©~985 Tribune Med1a Serv1ces. Inc 4/15/85  
37 "Portnoy's Complaint'"  All R1gh1s Reserved 5 Heavy weather  Saturday· s Puzzle Solved:  
author  canvas  
 
38 Sit  6 Nutty pie  
 
39 Deli items  7 Askew  
 
42 Tin Pan­ 8 Underthe  
 
43 Sacred bull  weather  
44 Rushed  9 Moveone's  
45 Pineapples  troops  
48 Conflicts  10 Actor Guinness  
without  11 Decree  
 
fighting  12 Seaver and  
 
52 Sword for  Jones  
 
example  15 Objectionable  
54 Lively dance  person  
 
55 Br. exclama·  18 Bumpkin  
 
tion  20 Convent  
56 Loafing  member  
57 Dodge  23 Bungle  
58-Moines  24 -voce  
59 Rene­60 Extend one's  25 Air. village 26 Jackets  38 Promising one  4/15/85 46 Proboscis  
subscription  27 Degrade 28 NYC island  40 Fop 41 Taxmen  47 Ahme! 48 Irishman or  
DOWN  29 Ring results  42 Feel sick  Welshman  
1 "The Red" 2 News section  31 Jogs 33 Part of a min.  44 Like Swiss cheese  49 Actor Ladd 50 Motored  
3 Lat. abbr.  34 Axiomatic  45 Litmus paper  51  Disgorge  
4 Apprehension  35 Hair set  reddener  53 Once Tokyo  


.Campus 
•12:10 
-12:55 P.M. -Noontalk in the Gallery, Professor Vogl Will Discuss His Cur­rent Exhibit, Snite Museum. 

•4 
P.M.-Lecture, "Select Works & Projects," Dinner Menus Tannys Langdon, Hammond, Beeby & Babka Architects, Annenberg Auditorium. Notre Dame 

•4:30 
P.M. -Meeting, Environmental Con­Roast turkey with dressing cerns Organization, Center for Social Con­Individual cheese quiche cerns. Beefpotpie 

•7 
P.M. -Meeting & Election, College Republicans, Room 204 O'Shaughnessy. Saint Mary's 

•7 
& 9 P.M.-Film, "Romeo &juliet;" Engi­Veal Scallopini neering Auditorium, Sponsored by ND Shake­Turkey pot pie speare Club, S1. Ratouille crepes 

•8 
P.M. -Internship Meeting, Dr. Robert H. Rueben croissants Vasoli, Room 120 O'Shaughnessy, Sponsored by Department ofSociology. 


TV Tonight 
6:00p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 28 Hardcastle & McCormick 22 22 Eyewitness News 9:00p.m. 16 Movie 28 Newswatch 28 22 Special -Space 
6:30p.m. 16 NBC Nightly News 28 Movie -Lady Blue 22 CBS Evening News ll:OOp.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 28 ABC World News Tonight 22 22 Eyewitness News 
7:00p.m. 16 MyAySyH 28 Newswatch 28 22 Three's Company 11:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 28 Jeopardy 22 Simon & Simon/McMillan 
7.:30 p.m. 16 Leadfoot 28 ABC News Nightline 22 WKRP in Cincinnati 34 Movie -Nicholas Nickelby 28 Wheel of Fortune 12:00a.m. 28 Love Connection 
8:00p.m. 16 TV Bloopers & Practical jokes 12:30a.m. 16 Late Night With David Letterman 22 Barnum & Bailey Circus 2:00a.m. 22 Nightwatch 

Before You Drive 
The Leader in Entertainment  ::  
Presents the following upcomin~ eve11ts:  :•  
The "We Can Make You Laugh"Show  •.: : :  
:•  
"Great Start Day.  ::  
Comedy Wftek .:··f he Movies  :~  
:~  


......_.............................................
I• • • ••••• • • • • • • • • • • • •~ •~• • • • • rra • •~r• •~• • .,. •~ • • .. •~•,. • .,. aw ~ 
.. 

1:~ The Student Activities Board'~: 
.._==:Mo==;;;;!HI==::::::;i"-==:Mo==-::::4'f==="-==;;;M==~f===;K;=~ •••••••-......................h ..............................................................~........... . 
,---------------------------------~-----------------------------------~­
-

ketball Tournament actton on the bookstore courts. The first round concludes today. Brian McCarthy details the weekend's action at right. 
Monday, April 15, 1985-page 12 
Herbert's 21 points set tourney record 
By BRIAN McCARTHY 
Sports Writer 
The first round of Bookstore XIV is not yet tlnished, but Tom Healy has seen his scoring record come and go. On Saturday Gus Herbert scored all 21 points ti>r Ray Mt·yer, Jerry Tarkanian, Digger Phelps ... as they downed Revenge ofthe Wimps, 21-10. Herbert, an associate (."Om­missioner of the tournament, took all but five of his team's shots. 
lbe Wimps did not put up much defense, but the weak shooting Her­bert still had to attempt 63 shots before he could tally the record­setting hoop. 
Not only did Healy lose his record but his team, Household Germs, was exterminated by The Mishawaka Ex· perience, 21 ~9. Healy managed only 3-for-9 shooting after going 19-for­3S in the preliminary round. 
Steve Hillsman of Let Me Tell You About White Chicks needs someone to tell him about shooting a bao;ket­ball after he turned in the worst shooting performance of the tourna­ment by missing all 2S of his at­tempts. Not surprisingly, his team was outscored by Dr. Ruth Wes­theimer Eats Onion Rings 2I-I6. 
On the brighter side, Greg Wright drilled 9 baskets in I 0 tries for Four Halfway Rectifiers and Zenerdiode, who tamed Wild Things by a score of 2I-Il. 
John Bruening hooped II of 14 for Hoop Da Doop as they ate up Grab a Sandwich III, 2 I·7. 
The High Flying Power Hitters should get credit for two victories after their 2H-26 win over Pontius Pilate and the Naildrivers took one hour and 20 minutes to complete. Bruce Blondin hit IO-of-3H for the Power Hitters while Marty Flyke nailed 13-of-:U for Pontius Pilate. 
For the second year in a row. We Never Practiced Even Once failed to score a point, choosing to sit in protest for part of the game. james Earley tossed in I I baskets ti>r Muddy Waters which coasted to the 
Bookstore XIV 
,--;: ~ 
'I
··­
21-0 win. Andy and The Hog Stab­hers were almost as tough in killing Constantine Chernenko and the Nearly Dead 21·1. 
Ken Kesey and the Merry Pranksters wore their bizarre uni· forms to a second victory in the tournament, a 24-22 edging of Wake 'n' Bake. 
Defense Plus Two, led by Andre Benm:tt's seven baskets in nine tries, added a victory to its record, but not before some hot shooting by its op­ponents, Jalapeno and the Peppers. Greg Wagner swished back-to-hack halfcourt shots before his team cooled offand dropped a 2 1-I 0 deci­sion. 
see BOOKSTORE, page 9 

Irish postseason hopes dimmed following losses to Xavier 
By CHUCK FREEBY 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's hopes for the Mid­western City Conference playoffs were dealt a severe blow this weekend as the Irish opened league play by dropping three of four deci­sions to defending north division champion Xavier atJake Kline Field. 
The Irish started the weekend without thl"ir bats, as Xavier pitcher Pete Sherman hurled a five-hit shutout, and the Musketeers won Saturday's opener, 4-0. 'lbe Irish never managed to get a man to third base, mustering only five singles against the Xavier righthander. 
Notre Dame's Buster Lopes, now 2-4, pitched a fine game but just didn't get any support. Lopes was working on his own shutout until the ftfth, when Ted Shalloe's RBI single and Dan Froehle's sacrifice fly gave Xavier a 2-0 lead. That wa-; all the runs Sherman would need, hut the Musketeers padded their cus­hion with insurance runs in the sixth and the seventh, both runs scoring with two out. 
In the sixth, Xavier shortstop Tim Rizzo got the run home with a single, while Chris Floyd drove in the final run with a double in the seventh. 
In game two, the Irish used a miracle rally to cap a brilliant come­from-behind S-4 win. Freshman pitcher Kevin Chenail ( 2-0) was out­standingall day, although he was vic­timized by four unearned runs in the first. After that rocky first inning, however, Chenali would allow only five hits while striking out six. 
Meanwhile, the scrappy Irish kept chipping away at the Musketeer lead. Notre Dame cut the margin to 4-2 in the third with a sacrifice fly by Rich Vanthournout and an RBI single by Tom Shields. 
The Irish narrowed the gap to 4-3 in the sixth when Mike McNeill 
Belles split with Taylor, win twice against Anderson to improve to 8-3 
By KELLY PORTOLESE 
Saint Mary's ,\ports Editor 
The Saint :\lary's softball team raised its sea~on record to H-3 over the weekend by splitting with fellow NAJA member Taylor University, IS­4, S-9, and taking two game~ from a strong Anderson College team, I 1-9. and 2-0. 
In the first game at Taylor on Friday afternoon the Belles locked up win number six on the fine pitch­ing of junior Cathy Logsdon, and an I 1-run third inning. The Belles added a run in the fifth inning, and three in the sixth and final inning as the I0-run rule took effect. 
Senior Teresa McGinnis had an outstanding game offensively. ·lbe centc:rfielder wa~ perfect at the plate, hatting S-for-S and driving in three runs. She also stole three bases. Senior Trish Nolan collected two singles. knocking in three runs, while Logsdon aided her own cause going 2-for-3 and batting in a run. 
Losing pitcher Teresa Summit gave up I 3 hits to the Belles and 
allowed seven walks, a<; Logston 
held her opponents to three hits and 
four walks. 
"lbe Belles did not fare as well in 

game two, losing only their third 
game of the sea<;on, 9· <;. 
Head Coach Scott Beisel noted 

that Taylor's starting of a slower 
pitcher in game two gave the Belles 
some hitting problems. 
"In the first game we hit on the ground and they hobbled the ball quite a bit. But in the second game we were held to six hits, due to the slower pitcher causing us to pop up or fly out," said Beisel. 
Offensively, Taylor chalked up four runs in the third inning off of losing pitcher Elaine Suess. Fresh· man pitcher Betty Mihalik entered the line-up in the fifth inning, hut An­derson produced five more runs on five hits. Senior Katy Boldt pitched the final two innings, giving up just one walk. 
Th<: Belles got their five runs across on senior Barb "lbeiss' 3-for-4 effort and a double by sophomore Janine Adamo. Senior Tracey Bow­
man and sophomore Lorri White contributed a single apiece. 
Beisel was pleased with the over­all play at Anderson on Saturday as the Belles swept the twinbill. 
"Th<: two games were intensely stronger than earlier games. It was the first doubleheader I felt we really got into both games," com­mented Beisel. "Our execution was the best. We always knew where to throw the ball." 
Logston, who started the game, left after two innings with a no-hitter going, and seven Saint Mary's runs on the board. Mihalik, however, gave up nine walks and eight hits in the next four innings. 
Despite the Anderson comeback, Beisel sees the freshman pitcher im­proving with experience. 
"Betty is pitching better than pre­viously. She looked good hut the umpire said her pitches were just a little too low." 
Logsdon reentered the lineup with the scor<: I 1-7 with two run-
see BELLES, page 10 
came up with another sacrifice fly. 
That set the stage for the ninth­
inning heroics. 
With no one on base and two out, most of the Jake Kline Field crowd was headed for the exit gate, hut Vanthournout stopped the crowd with a single through the hole on the left side. Shields moved him to second with a line shot to center, bringing up Notre Dame's team leader in RB!s, Mike Trudeau. The senior outfielder held true to form, blooping a single just in front of a diving Bob Knutson in right field to tie the score. Then. David Clark, with his father watching in the stands, picked up his first RBI in two weeks by driving a shot off the left­field fence to send Shields galloping home with the game-winner. 

Any momentum the Irish had from Saturday's rally wao; lost on Sun­day, as the Irish bullpen could not contain the Musketeer bats. In game one, Xavier held a S-.3 lead entering the seventh inning. "!bat's when the roof, and for that matter, the whole house, caved in on the Irish pitching staff. The first I I batters to come to the plate all reached home safely, with the Musketeers scoring I I runs off three Irish hurlers to put the game away. 
"lbe Irish scored a run in their half ofthe seventh to make the final I 6-4. Joe Dohosh, now 0-4, suffered the loss. 
The Irish appeared ao; though they would get the split in game two, as Trudeau's homer over the right-field fence gave Notre Dame a 3-I lead after three. Irish starter Brad Cross held tht· l<:ad until the fifth, when Xavier put runners on first and second with one out. 
"Ibe Irish appeared to turn a 6-4-3 double play to get out of the jam, es-
see IRISH, page 10 

Saint Mary's comes home with five 1st-place awards 
ByANDREA LaFRENIERE 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's track team returned from Holland, Mich., Saturday with five first-place awards. 
TI1e Belles were scheduled to compete against Hope and Aquinas Colleges at the meet, hut the Aquinao; team failed to show. 
Sophomore Trish McPartlin captured first place in both the high jump and the triple jump events. In the javelin, sophomore Megan McMonigle took first place, and freshman Cathy Ken­nedy finished first in both the 800-and I SOO-meter races. 
In the SOOO-meter race, sopho­
more Mary Ann Vanta<;sell came 
in second, and sophomore 
Mariclaire Driscoll finished third. 
Diane Hartwig, a senior, took third place in the discus event, and McPartlin placed third in the long jump. 
The Belles will compete in their ftrst home meel on Wednes­day at 3:30p.m. against Anderson and Goshen Colleges. 
"We've already run against Goshen, and we've done very well against them, hut Anderson is a very competitive school," said Coach jean Kerich. 

"We're hoping to improve our­selves at the meet and prepare for districts next week," she added. 


