


STING ANNIE LENNOX KAREN ALLEN
• 
RICHARD GERE 
••• Celebrity Pix by 
[1~rn 
'.


( ~m 
·. . ;, . 
.. ,1 · • .:...." •. 

. . . ' •' ' . ,,-...;'<, • :~' ' ~: '11 ', ' " 'c ,' 0 ',~ ' ( ' ~ • ' • 
•• ,· o-......._,
I ' 
:." ::·... •PJ.qtO· b.J die Walker ani$, 
~ J: -• 

:-·.::· ·_.,. 1 ~· :~ ;-~4·...·~·': • .';1.. 7·_, -I ' ,i' '. . 
STUDENT WINNERS -National Freeze Frame Contest 


t., :.. AWP~1-JMTK4J,Ji& ;za;;; zua 

e a u e s 
4 High Plains Drifter There's no better way to meet spring than at BY DON ROBERTS the head of a great hiking trail. Here's how. 
8 Lynn Goldsmith Star shots. amazing MTV clips. and a healthy BY LINDA EKLUND split personality spell success. 
II Low Light Photography How to take the worry out of being in the dark. BY ERIC ESTRIN Tips for natural light photography. 
13 Posters On the Wall = POW! Latest technology provides big blow-ups at little cost. 
14 National Freeze Frame Top on-campus shots from a nationwide Contest Winners search. 
d e p a m e n s 
3 Freeze Frame Ponies with a view. 6 Student Photo Essay Red. black and white. Since prehistory. these colors spell impact. 12 Calendar Picture-perfect events around the country. 
FREEZE FRAME 


horse is a horse is a horse, of course. But are these modern-day ponies fooled by that painted backdrop? Do they expect a 
trio of trail-wise buckaroos to hustle out of a nearby saloon. jump into their saddles and growl in unison, "Let's ketch them varmints"? Amy Carrico of Kansas City, Missouri caught this whimsical setting for Freeze Frame. Along with a small taste of photographic fame, she wins $35. 
Do you have an eye-stopping, thought-pro­voking photograph lying around, waiting to be seen by the Break staff? If so, please send it in to us at Freeze Frame, 303 North Glenoaks Blvd., Suite 600, Burbank, CA 91502. Please be sure to in­clude a stamped, self-addressed envelope in which we may return your pictures. and please label each picture with your name and address. The deadline for our next contest is June 28, 
1985. 
© 1985 Alan Weston Publishing and published for Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester, NY 14650 by Alan Weston Communications. Inc. Publisher JOANNE SANFILIPPO Editor BYRON LAURSEN: Creative Director CHIP JONES; Art Directors MOLLY RUTTAN, HORTENSIA CHU; Production Assistant lACK CLAEYS; Circulation Supervisor ROXANNE PADILLA; Assistant to the Publisher NANCY JONES ADVERTISING OFFICES: NEW YORK 134 Lexington Ave., 3rd Fir. NYC., NY 100!6 1212) 696-0994; Vice President -National Sales and Marketing LARRY SMUCKLER; Account Executives DONNA CALDERARA, NICHOLAS IOVANNA, CINDY VINCENT; LOS ANGELES 303 North Glenoaks Blvd.. Suite 600. Burbank. CA 91502; Director of National Sales HARRY SHERMAN; Account Executive DAVE ERB; CHICAGO !52 Huron Street, Chicago, IL 60610 1312) 75!-1768; Mid West Sales Manager JACKIE PETCHENIK: DETROIT Publisher's Representative MARTIN T. TOOHEY 1313)643-7797. CORPORATE OFFICES-303 North Glenoaks Blvd.. Suite 600, Burbank. CA 91502. Richard J Kreuz. President and Chief Executive Officer; Jeff Dickey, President of Sales and Marketing; Randy Achee, President of Business Development. All rights reserved. Letters become the property of the publisher and may be edited. Publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited manuscripts. Published two times during the school year. Annual subscription rate is $3.00. To order subscriptions or notify changes of address. write Break, 303 North Glenoaks Blvd .. Suite 600. Burbank. CA 91502. 
break • spring 1985 • 3 


HIGH PLAINS DRIFTER 
A Smart How-To For Spring Hiking 
The Bunion Express 
So you've had it with four walls. winter's gray fatalism and Erika on AI/ my Children. With the robin's premature burblings, you're ready to hoist a pack. to strive for the high and the wild. including such clas­sics as the Cascades in Oregon. the High Sierras in California. the Olympic Rain Forest in Washington. the Rocky Mountains from Montana to Colorado. the Grand Te­tons in Wyoming and the Appalachians from Georgia to Vermont. Well, you'd best 
At day's end, It's satisfying to look back on the trail miles you've covered. 


BY DON ROBERTS 

forget it. The best spring hiking is in the foothills and flatlands close to where you live. 
Neither Jeremiah Johnson. nor the Dalai Lama. nor even Sasquatch could be per­suaded to roam the ridges during the spring flush. Spring is worthless in the mountains. Some years winter refuses to make room; other years lusty winds and rain turn the highlands into runoff soup. 
For spring hikes, accessibility determines quality. Consequently, the cultivation of good local hiking trails is a regional pas­sion. Consult local libraries. bookstores and outdoor columns in statewide news­papers and magazines for smart local guid­ance. When you're ready to roll, here's how to get started. 
The Pre-Amble 
When you're keyed up enough to start packing, think long and hard about the pounds-to-pleasure ratio. When carrying a fully appointed pack-food, clothing, shel­ter, bedding -you are in effect carrying a furnished studio apartment on your back. Thoreau, the most astute of supertramps, counseled: "When I have met an immigrant tottering under a bundle which contained his all -looking like an enormous wen which had grown out of the nape of his neck-I have pitied him, not because that was his all. but because he had all that to 

Hiking can introduce you to new friends. 
carry. If I have got to drag my trap, I will take care that it be a light one and do not nip me in a vital part." 
Lay out everything that you are consider­ing for your trek, then ask yourself: Will the ecstasy warrant the agony of carrying that extra ration of marshmallows? that vintage 1969 Cabernet Sauvignon? those mono­grammed pajamas? that framed portrait of mother? Let your back do the answering. 
Some vistas, some kinds of happy solitude, are only delivered by foot power (right). 
(Below) Glance through the fence ralls and you'll notice these hikers In the Great Smokey Mountains have discovered the pleasures of a rest stop. 
Because of the space race and the spin­tion qualities of Kodachrome 25 film. For off of lightweight, resilient materials, back­black and white photography there is no packing has gone from the primordial to quandary; Kodak Tri-X pan film is the most the posh in less than a decade. The bewil­facile film that ever went for a dip in devel­dering assortment of adjustable metal­oping solution. frame packs, flexible but fixed plastic-frame A small, well designed tripod is a must. packs and convertible internal-frame packs Marginal light and movement are forest can cause the rookie to consider taking up factors which call for a mechanical assist. bocce ball or water polo instead. Don't be Trust only a sturdy expensive model. as it intimidated. Shop around, not only for the is a gut-wrenching experience to watch a pack itself, but also for a knowledgeable cheap drugstore tripod suddenly lurch outdoor store proprietor. Insist on trying earthward and drill your beloved camera the pack with an improvised load. Hike into the landscape. around the shop, sit down, bend over, With the capabilities of contemporary climb up and down stairs. If the pack follows single-lens-reflex cameras, most strobes, you, providing freedom, flex and float (a meters, filters, cable releases and the like pack properly suspended from the hip become superfluous gadgets. A basic selec­should feel as if it is floating slightly away tion of high-caliber lenses, on the other from your back). then you have a fit hand, provide an indispensable window on smoother than Betty Grable's nylons. the outdoor world. Though not the last 
word, the following set of lenses promise Eating Out trail-tested performance: 50 mm f/1.4, a 
Most freeze-dried food tastes like saw­compact. high-speed, all-purpose lens par­dust and contains little in the way of ani­ticularly useful for scenic and candid shots; mal octane. Instead of some fluff in foil. 100 mm f/4 macro, a wildly versatile lens take along pemmican, butter, cheese, ideal for zeroing in on the cosmos at your beans, oatmeal and dense-as-a-brick brown feet. as well as standard nature study and bread. In other words, stock up on the portraiture; 300 mm f/4, a truly portable same type of high-fat, high-protein grub telephoto so fast and crisp that it provides that fueled Admiral Peary's crazed assault a range of handheld shooting possibilities on the North Pole. Real food never goes from the journalistic to the romantic. out of style. 
Do not leave anything in rigid contain­Inside Track ers; use zip-lock bags for repackaging ev­"Of the many vows that I took, I have erything, even mulligan stew, and plan found the one about travelling on foot to meals so that you order from the luxury be the most beneficial." -Gandhi menu first. As burger emporiums recede Because it requires less strength than into the dust. you get less picky, and as state of mind, backpacking is as much a re­your pack gets lighter your consciousness ligion as it is a recreation. That does not climbs higher. mean it is a somber or mystical affair. After 
all, backpacking is not really a faith, but a 
Depth of Field 
Backpacking ventures, by their very na­

ture, are unforgettable. Images imprint 
deeper into your memory because there 
are no civilized distractions, no murderous 
machines, no Three's Company reruns fog­
ging up your skull. But those outdoor inter­
ludes committed to film are indisputably 
indelible. Personally, I would rather leave 
behind half my provisions and all of my 
fresh Hanes than my 300-millimetre lens. 
Fortunately one need not forsake protein 
nor hygiene for photography. The prudent 
selection of camera equipment will easily 
put your "field research" in clear focus. 
Wilderness light is a fickle phenomenon, 

requiring both fast and slow film. Koda­
chrome 64 and Kodak Ektachrome 400 films 
cover every vagrant light. But outdoor pho­
tographers with tenacity and a certain mad 
glint in the eye may prefer the color satura­small fervor. And it is a blessedly physical as well as mental endeavor which leaves worldly concerns and clocks and concrete and digital devices far behind. No stress, no strain, no interfacing. What better Rx for psychic paralysis than to get off your tail and hit the trail? 


Doc Bucolic's List of Backpacking Gear 
It is far better that the pilgrim make a U-turn for the provinces than head into the hinterland ill-prepared. Doc Bucolic sug­gests that you bash a few books. brain­drain backpacking acquaintances and browse outdoor stores. But the quickest. most pleasant way to become an experi­enced timber rat is to enlist with a back­packing club, then aGcompany them on a shakedown cruise. In the meantime, Doc Bucolic preaches the following notions con­cerning smart hiking hardware. 
(continued on page 7) 
;:: 
0 
!< r 
"' 
~ 
z 

-...... 
~.~. 
.. -" ­
·-=~.j . _~..,;Ji. 

A 
s he looked at a book with photo­graphs of prehistoric cave paintings, 
it occurred to Edward Heins, a stu­dent at The Cooper Union School of Art, that humankind has always relied principally on three particular colors for expressions of drama. Perhaps early humans were limited because red and black pigments -from ber­ries, from ashes and carbon -were the prime materials at hand. Or perhaps these colors, also the colors of blood and of mid­night, are inherently stirring Along with 


-·-· .. ---------··--___________________ 
Student 




Essay 
white, which increases drama by adding con­trast, red and black are still favorites today. Whatever must be bold, whatever must be noticed is likely to use some or all of this trio. Change black to dark blue and you have the recipe for an American flag, for just one example. 
Acting on his hunch, Heins went looking around New York City for exemplars of these three prominent locations on the color spec­trum. The result is this photo essay. a state­ment in red, black and white. the colors that cannot be ignored. 
6 • spring 1985 • break 


ATTENTION! 

W 
e need Student Photo Essays for future issues of Break, and we'll 
pay $100 for each essay published. 

Doc Bucolic's List 
(continued from page 5) 

Footwear: Boots are weights which must be lifted and relifted, continually breaking the grip of gravity. Most hikers take approx­imately 2,000 steps a mile, averaging about ten miles a day. That's 20,000 steps; if your boots weigh even one pound each, that's 20 tons of overlooked freight. Choose foot­wear that weighs mere ounces. High­arched running shoes are an inexpensive alternative to the costlier. heavier trail boot. Buy only footwear which fits the first lacing. "Breaking-in" shoes went out with corsets. 
.. . 

Backpacks: You won't find what you want at a discount store. Stick to the dedicated outdoor stores. Remember that there is a correlation between quality and cost. Your spine will resent you for every penny you pinch. 
... 

Rain-ment: Comfort, warmth and quality can be summed up in one word -Gore­Tex, a fabric which is windproof, water­proof, light weight and breathable. A dou­ble stitched, seam-sealed Gore-Tex parka will serve admirably as rain gear, all pur­pose outdoor wear and stylish about-town garb. In Gore-Tex you can go from tromp­ing the back country to stomping at the Savoy, no sweat (literally). 
Sleeping Bags: Poly is jolly. Every manu­facturer has his own name, from PolyGuard to Hollowfil, for the polyester insulation used in nylon shell sleeping bags. Poly­ester is less expensive. more durable and more versatile than goose or duck down. Wet or dry, poly retains its loft and does its job. 
Sleeping Pads: Undoubtedly the easiest choice in outdoor equipment. the Ther­marest is a combination air mattress (self inflatable) and open cell foam pad. It rolls to half the size of conventional trail pads and provides an elevated zone between you and cold, hard terra-firma. 
... 

Tents: The Space Age has been the shin­ing light of the tent industry. Such labo­ratory developments as Gore-Tex fabric, 
Your essay can be any group of photos­whether color or black and white -that hold to a certain theme. Each photo essay should be accompanied by a note of expla­nation -where you took the pictures. any interesting technical notes. 
Be sure to send your essay along with a stamped, self-addressed return envelope. Print your name on every photograph, and tell us your address, phone number. age and college affiliation. 
The $100 fee covers first-time North American rights; you retain ownership of your photos. Color slides or black-and-white prints are preferred. Deadline for our next essay is June 28. 1985. Please send your submission to Break Essay, 303 North Glenoaks Blvd., Suite 600, Burbank, CA 91502. 
high-tensile alloys (for the shock-corded poles) and computer-enhanced, stress­tested designs have led to very light, roomy, efficient shelters. They cost a lot of mazuma. They're worth it. 
... 

Stoves: Many good stoves, from simple al­cohol burners to self-priming white gas var­ieties, are available and affordable. Though it's heavier than some, Doc Bucolic likes the solid, dependable Coleman Peak I be­cause it behaves in a blizzard, ne\er breaks down and does not require a Master's De­gree in engineering to operate . 
... 

Honest Hose: A good hiking sock is like motor oil. without it you won't go any­where. Doc Bucolic gets very impatient with backpacking "bimbos" who spend a fortune on marvy gear then skimp on socks. Hiking socks come in silk, poly, nylon, cot­ton, wool and blends thereof. Regardless of composition, there is no such thing as a "jake" sock for less than five bucks. Trial by trail will determine just what hose humors your toes. 
break • spriMg 1985 • 7 
hick in~ VOrk's Garment District 
there's a studio loft where the pace 
nearly matches the frenzy on the streets outside. That's where Lynn Goldsmith. photographer and musician. comedienne. record. video. TV producer/ director. stock agency owner. talent man­ager. image consultant, song-and scriptwriter and photographers' rep, is plot­ting her roadshow to American colleges. 
"I want to stay in touch with what I know to be the future," she explains. Not content to let her photographs. records and videos do all the talking. Goldsmith has organized a college lecture tour. On that tour. she will 

"sumo tho ~::d: 
e~~aguy who's here to make cham­pions out of us all. In fact, Goldsmith plays several different characters in order to prove that success is within everyone's reach. 
Ambitious? Yes. absolutely. She doesn't demur at success. 
"There aren't many photographers as successful. especially women. as I am. And I'm not saying that in a braggart way. I feel like a jerk sitting here saying so, but I could tell anyone how to do the same thing," she says, intending to do just that. 
"I didn't perform any magic! If there was a door closed. I figured out a way to get around it. 
"Who am I to call up and get a story on the President? Who doesn't want to photo­graph the President? You figure it out." 
Goldsmith figured out she could get a session with then President Gerald Ford if she sold a story on his personal White House photographer, David Kennerly, to a photography magazine. Now former Presi­dent Ford is one of several thousand celeb­rities among her one mllllon color trans­parencies and two million black-and-whites neatly filed, ready for shipment to maga­zines who print her with utter regularity. 
Within seconds of my arrival at the loft. she has set up her VCR to play videos of singles from the album she did last year, Dancing for Mental Health. plus a register­and-vote commercial for MTV, her own publicity tape and a motivational tape for the (fictional) "Will Powers Institute." The room goes dark, Lynn goes to retrieve cof­





Success Is Her Theme 
A Celebrity Photographer Breaks the Barriers 
BY LINDA EKLUND 
fee, the tape starts and there's Meat Loaf spitting beer on himself while "Will Pow­ers" chants, "You are an important person, a rare individual. There has never been anyone just like you." 
"You can make it happen. It's you. Only you," the tape keeps saying. It spins through "Adventures in Success," "Oppor­tunity," "Smile" and "Kissing With Confi­dence" and constructs a world in which the bald grow hair. the fat get thin, the wrink­led smooth out and adversity is true op­portunity -all over a soundtrack helped along by Robert Palmer, Sting and Todd Rundgren. 
A child of Detroit and Miami Beach High School (where she joined I4 clubs) and the University of Michigan, where she took two degrees in three years (a teaching cer­tificate plus radio and TV direction), Goldsmith never figured she would be a photographer. 
"I thought I would either be a singer­songwriter or a director," she remembers. She was in a band in college, living next door to future film director Larry Kasdan (The Big Chill). Eventually, Goldsmith co­managed the rock band Grand Funk Rail­road. She also did national publicity for Elektra Records. helped invent the video magnification system used to project rock concerts at Madison Square Garden and the Hollywood Bowl, and started to direct the first late-night television rock show, ABC's In Concert. 
"I was using stills to storyboard my ideas. The record company came to a 
The setting sun and geometric paving 
... patterns, distorted by a wide angle lens, add a surreal air to this portrait of Sting. 
A Rolling Stone, Keith Richards, gathers backstage rest time. ~ 

Chuck Berry concert and wanted to buy my stills of Chuck Berry." When the photos earned more than she got for directing the show, she took a surprised look at photography. 
"I was the youngest director in the Di­rectors Guild of America," she says, "and I was tired of proving myself." There was a lot of proving to be done, too, for a young woman in that fraternity. 
"Photography was something I could do alone. It was simpler, it paid more, and I could get more satisfaction because of the connection I had with the subjects I photographed." 
The rest is hardworking history, though Goldsmith claimed her share of the fa­mous-photographer market with blister­ing speed. 
"I didn't wait for assignments. I got to the people I wanted to shoot, shot and sold the pictures. For celebrities who rei-
Meet Donna, an aquamarine-headed 
charmer, who also happens to be photog­
rapher Lynn Goldsmith In character for 
one of her own videos. 
ished the publicity, she often shot free, re­tained all rights and got permission to market the results wherever she could. She not only made her cut-line ubiquitous in the U.S., U.K., Iapan and elsewhere, but set up a stock agency and began to represent about 30 far-flung photographers, who ex­tend the reach of LGI -Lynn Goldsmith Incorporated -considerably. 
Popularly known as a rock photographer, Goldsmith is quick to point out that her range is far greater than just rock & roll. She nods to last week's work for Harper's Bazaar and an on-going Faberge contract. "You don't get those kinds of jobs if they see you as a rock photographer," she cau­tions, though Us. People, Newsweek, Life and other major magazines don't seem to mind. 


When it comes to doing her lecture tour, though, she knows her life in the rock world makes her somebody kids want to talk to. She's done definitive shots of Mick lagger, Michael jackson. Patti Smith. Laurie Ander­son, Bruce Springsteen and Sting. You al­most have to ask who she hasn't shot, with 
1.000 bands and performers in stock; album covers for Frank Zappa, the B-52s, fan Hunter. Black Uhuru, Carly Simon, Simon and Garfunkel, the Talking Heads, among others; assorted tour books; and starting last year. one book a year dedicated to a single star or group. So far she's done the Police and Springsteen. with half the profits going to a humanitarian group called "Save the Children." 
"I love taking pictures and I'll do it my whole life." she says, "but I don't consider myself a photographer. I see myself -it sounds silly -as Will Powers, an example of someone breaking limitations, breaking barriers. breaking categories." 

She's right. She sounds downright corny. And she doesn't mind admitting it. 
You begin to sense a certain courage when you know a lot of postmoderns will find her optimistic videos downright naive. They're equally at home on MTV, she says, and the Disney Channel. They're even used by Captain Kangaroo, as therapy for autis­tic children and by Britain's National Mar­riage Guidance Council. 
We kick the talk back to photography. She calls herself a freak for Kodak products -Kodachrome 25 film in the studio, Kodachrome 64 film outside and for shoot­ing groups. She gives a few mechanics of her sessions and talks about looking through the lens with both inner vision and peripheral vision. 
It's clear, though, that for Lynn Gold­smith. photography is just one facet of a much larger communication process. 
Among the many celebrities who have been on the business end of Goldsmith's lens are actor Richard Gere (left), new wave songstress Annie Lennox (above) and actress Karen Allen (below). 


Is a guy who won't be held back. 

Lynn Goldsmith and Will Powers: Two of a Kind 
Will Powers is photographer Lynn 

Goldsmith transformed into a play-acting 
character. He's also a man who seems to 
be taking over her life, starting with a col­
lege lecture tour. 
The tour took shape when Lynn did a 

story on G. Gordon Liddy and discovered 
the college circuit through Liddy's booking 
agency, Brian Winthrop International. 
She'll talk about photography and show 

her motivational videos. Ironically, her 
photos of rock stars are her ticket to talk at colleges, but her goal is to demystify success. 
"You realize in photographing the stars that everybody is vulnerable, even the people you think are immune to such things. College kids want to know how I got next to their heroes. Well, guess what? Sting is no better than you. That's my basic approach. 
"College is a halfway house. I want to add reality to it, help them learn how to operate in the real world. 
"I want to be with the audience for my photographs and videos. I want to interact. answer questions, participate without TV or a magazine in the middle. It's a dif­ferent world out there now and unless you communicate with it you don't know what it is." 



LOW LIGHT PHOTOGRAPHY 
BY ERIC ESTRIN 
W
ith the variety of sensitive, high­speed film on the market these days, you can take pictures any­where, as long as you keep in mind a few basic points. First of all. it helps to have a camera with a fast lens -meaning f/2.8 or better (the lower the number, the faster your lens). Even if your lens is not that fast, you can still take low-light photographs ­but you may need to use a tripod to keep your camera steady for longer exposures. 
Votive candles provide even, warm light, as well as an unusual frame for the subject. 
In either case, make sure you're using an appropriate film for your subject. Koda­color VR 400 or 1000 film is recommend­ed for color prints. The higher speed ( 1000) is preferable for extremely low light. The lower-speed film offers more versatility in a wider range of situations. Kodak Ekta­chrome 200 or 400 film can be used for slides shot in natural light, or Kodak Ek­tachrome 160 film for slides when the pre­dominant Iight source is from tungsten bulbs. Kodak Tri-X pan film is recom­mended for black and white shots. 
Almost all indoor settings lit without flash or other professional gear would be considered low-light photographic oppor­tunities. These settings often provide pleasing results, because sunshine filtering in through windows eliminates harsh shadows and makes for even. flattering light. To maximize this condition, make sure window shades and blinds are opened, whenever possible. Similarly, when shoot­ing indoors at night or on overcast days, it may help to turn on all lights in the room. 
A long exposure transformed car head­
lights into luminous streaks. 
When taking pictures in this manner, try to position your subject facing the light. Take a meter reading from the subject's face. or whatever area you consider the most important part of the shot. If you include the light source, or even large portions of a reflective surface such as a light-colored wall in the reading, you risk "fooling" your light meter and underexposing your subject. Conversely, try not to include much of the open window or other light source in the frame. This part may be overexposed if you have taken a reading from your subject. 
Other kinds of low-light photo oppor­tunities take place outside the home after daylight. Early evening is a good time to capture sunsets and other nature shots in a soft, pleasing light. In addition, most city lights are turned on by this time, and they can serve as the focal point of a va­riety of shots. 
It's easy to take pictures of city lights at night, because they turn out well at a wide range of exposures. Perhaps a stream of automobile headlights along a dark road­way makes for an interesting geometric design in black and white. Or, you might prefer shooting a colorful neon sign, or an entire block of storefronts. Fast shut­ter speeds will emphasize detail in the lights themselves, while longer exposures result in more detail in surrounding shad­dow areas. 
A fast camera lens and high-speed film can 

Window light alone would have made these lacemakers appear In silhouette, but reflected light off a white tablecloth 
helps show detail in their faces. 
also be utilized to great effect when shoot­ing indoor concerts or sporting events, or outdoor events at night. For sports events, it's often best to shoot at the fast­est shutter speed possible, in order to stop the action. If low-light conditions force you to expose for 1,60 second or longer, chances are, you will get some blurred motion. This phenomenon is minimized, however. at the peak of the action -the top of an athlete's jump, the moment a ball hits a bat. and so on. In addition. you can get satisfying results by panning your camera with the action, blurring only the background. 
Once you start experimenting, you'll find there's literally no end to the array of good photographs available in dim light. Streetlights, candlelights, even the light of a clear, night sky can provide enough illumination to make beautiful pictures. All that's usually needed is a camera with a fast lens, some sensitive film, and a healthy imagination. 

NoRTHWEST 
COLORADO The town of Larkspur, midway between Colorado Springs and Denver. puts on a month-long Renais­sance Festival on each weekend in June. More than 500 costumed participants put on demonstrations. sword fights, jousts and arts and crafts fairs in a medieval town set in the Rockies. Call (303) 
777-3835 for more information. 
MONTANA The Indian Club at Montana State University in Bozeman sponsors Indian Days, to be held this year on May 10 and II. Invitations are extended to all members of Montana's Indian tribes. and the 300-400 respondents participate in a weekend of dancing. music, food and cer­emonial events. The costumed celebration is held at the MSU Fieldhouse. For more informa­tion. call (406) 587-3456 
OREGON Spectators line up 
for 30 miles along the wild and scenic Rogue River near 
Grants Pass over the memo­
rial Day weekend for the lead 
event in the Beatnik Festival. 
About 20 hydroplanes race 
over the rivers. rocks and 
rapids downstream and back 
for a 50-mile run beginning 
and ending at Riverside Park. 


WASHINGTON The commu­
nity of Westport is known for 
its whalewatching trips. and 
the peak season in the area is 
from late April through May. 
Charter boats take watchers 
out for four-hour scenic trips, 
often spending much of the 
time drifting through hun­
dreds of migrating whales. 
Call (206) 268-9422 for more 
information. 
Michael Thirklll 



SouTHWEST 
CALIFORNIA The San Fran­cisco Examiner's Bay to Break­ers Race requires almost as much endurance to refer to as it does to participate in. This foot race -the largest in the world (largest race. not largest feet)-winds through San Francisco and culminates near the beach with a well­deserved festival. May 19. For an information packet send a self-addressed, stamped en­velope to: Bay to Breakers, 110 5th Street, San Fran­cisco. CA 94103. 
ARIZONA White Castle Sun­day. The scent of White Castle hamburgers in Fountain Hills on April 28 will not be brought by a breeze from the Windy City-it will come from the several booths set up once a year to sell the little square burgers which are flown in from the midwest. Enjoy this culinary treat while listening to the music of various bands provided by the city that boasts the highest fountain in the world. Free admission and parking. (602) 837-2371. 
Doug Elcholt: 


NORTHEAST 
MAINE Tall tales, fables, and yarns are the order of business when the North Atlantic Fes­tival of Storytelling comes to Rockport in late tune. Storytellers from all over will enthrall audiences with their ancient art. Informa­tion (207) 236-9721. 
NEW HAMPSHIRE The skies over the Mt. Washington Valley will be a sight to behold when hot air balloons, their pilots, and their enthusiasts converge on the town of North Conway in early June. Information: (603) 271-2666. 
MASSACHUSETTS Meet those jogging feet at the Bos­ton Marathon, which occurs in and around the town on the third Monday of every April. If you decide to leave your run­ning shoes home and cheer on the marathoners instead. why not bring your camera and capture the action from the sidelines? Information: The Boston Athletic Association. (6I7) 227-32IO. 
CONNECTICUT Sailing craft will race in the annual Kahlua/Sunfish Connecticut Classic in early June. The race course starts at Riverside Park in Hartford, and mean­ders south on the Connecticut River to the Pettipaug Yacht Club in Essex. Information: 
(203) 756-7091. Paul Rosta 

EAST CENTRAL 
NEW JERSEY Waterloo Vil­lage, Waterloo. This restored colonial village is nestled in the wooded Sussex mountains, sprawling acres that play host to a summer of outdoor musi­cal events from classical to bluegrass. Working mills make it historic. lush grounds make it picturesque and the local pub makes it merry. A popular hideaway for public-shy lovers. Call now for summer schedule: (20I) 347-4700. 
New Jersey Folk Festival. Music Pier. Ocean City. Early May weekend. All-day seaside music fair. Call (609) 399-6111. 
NEW YORK The Ninth Avenue International Festival, 35th­57th Streets. Manhattan. This relatively new annual event has become a popular hit by roping off 22 city blocks for an orgy of food, games, shops, crafts and ethnic de­lights, stretching from below Times Square, through Hell's Kitchen and up the West Side Theatre District. A weekend fest. May 18-I9. 

PENNSYLVANIA Raft Regatta, Juniata River. Huntingdon. The last Saturday of April is the traditional date for this im­pressive white water com­petition. Only rafts, many homemade, may participate and those homegrown models are proud floating showcases. Get your feet wet. Information: (8I4) 643-3577. 
Devon Horse Show and County Fair, Devon Fair­grounds, Devon, May 24­June I. One of America's most prestigious equestrian events of !~aping, speed and style. Many former Olympic equestrians ride here. And the County Fair is a bonus­rides, games, sideshows, food and drink. For information: (2I5) 964-0550. 
VIRGINIA Wolf Trap Farm Park for the Performing Arts. Trap Road, VIenna. Daily tours available. Call now for upcom­ing slate of summer events. Enjoy jazz, dance. musicals, theatre and opera in an outdoor setting. Informa­tion: (703) 255-I9I6. 
17th Annual Reenactment 
of the Battle of New Market. 

PALM SPRINGS CONVENTION & TOURIST BUREAU 12 • s p r i n g I 9 8 5 • b r e a k 

New Market. Over 1000 mock soldiers in period dress re­create the famous Civil War battle. Sometime in mid-May. Information: (703) 740-3101. 
Tony DeSena 

SouTHEAST 
FLORIDA Traditional skills will be tested at the Scottish Highland Games in Dunedin 
PADRE ISLAND TOURIST BUREAU 
(April 20) and Jacksonvllle (April 12-14). These annual games carry on competitions in the tug of war, sheaf and hammer throws, drumming, dancing and bagpipes. 
ALABAMA Fifty fire-breathing stock cars take the starting gun in the Winston 500 NASCAR Grand National Stock Car Race, May 5 at Talladega. 
SOUTH CAROLINA The Spoleto Festival, held May 24­June 9 in Charleston, just might be the best and most comprehensive arts festival anywhere in America. The two-week slate of events 
includes theatre, dance 
and music. 

Bob Andelman 

MIDWEST 
IOWA The Drake Relays, held April 26-27 at Drake University in Des Moines annually attract top collegiate tracksters from all over the U.S. World re­cords have been known to fall. For information, call (515) 271-2102. 
ILLINOIS The Chicago Cubs Home Opener takes place on April 16 at Wrigley Field, Chicago. It has become al­most cliche to say that Wrigley Field is the best ballpark in the country, but, well, it is. The friendly confines are the per­fect setting for ... with the Cubs, you never know. But the vines are nice. and at this time of year, the beer is cold. What better way to forget about San Diego, Steve Garvey, and 1984? 
WISCONSIN "Brown Bach It" 
every Tuesday and Thursday 
in April at the Performing 
Arts Center, Milwaukee. 
Free noontime classical mu­
sic concerts will feature local 
and regional musicians. Call 
(414) 273-3121. 
Over 90 colorful hot-air bal­loons will brighten the Wis­consin skies as they compete in various events at the Great Wisconsin Dells Balloon Rally from May 31 to June 2. For the earthbound, the Dells are about as enjoyable a place to drink a beer as anywhere. Call (608) 254-8088. 
Richard Levinson 


DANOLE:SK! 

Thi, "'"fall. '0/ect <allege, and uni'•"itio, hooted a "mouS-wide "'"" Fmm, <ont,,;r, 'Pon'Oied by ""'mao KOdak Comoaoy At ea,h College, the"'"""' "'"Pape, "afl wa, in <h01ge of fudging and 'electing a g1oup of Photogmph, that, togethe,, ilf"'tmted "'"P"' 
hf,ty/e Now we h.,e a Winne, O>emll, the be,. <amp"' 'election, " Pkked hom the !Og/ona/ <hamp, by KOdak Photo ''Pert, Pe-. St"' dmw, top hono,, than(, to 'ha~p
""d'"' eye, OOd a""'" editing fob by the Da;{y """"''" "aff 


An Invitation from the editors andpublisher ofAmerican Photographer 
}bu are cordia//)' inl'ited to join tbe most creatiz•e pbotogmpbl' entbusiasts i11 tbe ll'orfd ll'bo subscribe to American Pbotograpbel." As a neu· subscriber you are entitled to our introductor)' qjj'er !bat saz·esyou $20.03 ojj'tbe
JOHN KEllY 
ON 

neuc1:1·tmzd cost and baflofltbe one year basic rate.
BlllEPPRIDGE 
ON 

J2 iSSUeS for $9.97Cbeck one: 0 Pa)'mentenclosed 0 Bill me R.S.VP 
Nam<"------------------------------­
( pk·a:-.t: print) 

Ad<lrl'ss______________________________ 
Cit,·_______________Statl'_____Zip•--------­
Mail to: AMERICAN PHOTOGRAPHER 1255 Portland Place, PO. Box 2835, Boulder, CO 80321. 5AAF9 Make checks payable to American Photographer. 
Outside the U.S :Add $6.00 for additional postage. Payment in 
U.S. funds must accompany order. Your first copy will be in the mail in 6 weeks. One year basic subscription price is $19.90. 

CREATING


DANCES 
FOR THE 
CAMERA 

THE GREATEST PHOTO COLLECTING COUP 
WASHINGTON PRESS CORPS 

EXPOSED 

NUDES IN THE LANDSCAPE 
£1.50 
.~ 

Photograph by Lo1s Greenfield 


~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------.--------------------------.----~ 


Oscars -page 5 

VOL XIX, NO. 116 the independent ~tudent new~paper ~cr\ing notn dame and ~aint mary·~ 
TUESDAY, MARCH 26, 1985 
Senate gives terms Soviet bugs discovered


two-week increase 
at embassy 
By MIKE MILLEN president, voted against the con­SeniorStaffReporter tinuance because, "it is a dangerous precedent." Lyons Hall President 
Student Senate members ap­Joanie Cahill disagreed, responding proved a two-week extension of "I think this is pretty unique as far as their terms last night in order to setting a 'dangerous precedent.'" WASHINGTON Soviet finish work on the proposed restruc­Discussion continued for more electronic bugs secre£1y planted in turing ofstudent government. than two hours before the senate re­typewriters at the U.S. Embassy in 
Student Body President Rob Ber­solved Bertino's question of "What Moscow may have resulted in a tino said, "I'm not real crazy about should we do with the senators who· serious compromise ofhighly classi­the idea. I would basically chair the have been elected?" Student Body fied information being handled by meetings." He added this move was Vice President-elect Duane 
diplomats at the embassy, CBS news necessary to facilitate the smooth Lawrence said new elections for 
reported last night. transition from the old to the new these positions would be good be­"For at least one year and prob­
structure ofstudent government. cause "There are a lot ofpeople who ably longer, the American Embassy 
The change involves conducting didn't like the old senate but are in Moscow was the victim of a so­
senate elections in every hall instead psyched about the new structure." 
phisticated electronic spy operation
of five campus districts. A majority Wurth agreed, adding, "There were which gave Soviet leaders an inside 
vote mandated that the four on­people who didn't run because they 
look at what U.S. diplomats were campus senators-elect will automat­didn't like the system." 
doing and planning," said CBS corre­ically be chosen as senators from Executive Coordinator Alison 
spondent David Martin. 
their respective dorms. Yurko was against revoking the posi­Senate members were divided tions ofthe senators-elect. She asked 
A State Department spokesman, over the potential outcome of the "What are we going to say to them? 
Joseph Reap, said when asked about the CBS report, "We do not com­restructuring. Referring to the possi­'Too bad, so sad, you've been had?' bility that new senators might be Our elections (will seem) a joke." 
ment on alleged intelligence..activi­ties."
forced to vote themselves out of of­Senator Javier Oliva said, "I think fice, Executive Coordinator Doug we should let the dorms have their 
Citing unnamed "informed Wurth said, "I think people whose chance to elect their senators and 
sources," CBS said Soviet agents secretly installed tiny sensing
jobs aren't on the line should talk they should serve alongside the devices in about a dozen embassy
about it." Jim Domagalski, sophomore class see SENATE, page 4 typewriters." 
"The devices picked up the con­tents of documents typed by em­
Mershon, VP 

bassy secretaries and transmitted them to antennas hidden in the em­bassy walls," it said. "The antennas,

forHumana, 

in tum, relayed the signals to a lis­tening post outside the embassy."

will lecture 

The network said the bugged Spedal to The Observer typewriters were in use from 1982 
Kathryn Mershon, corporate vice until thcr operation was uncovered president for Humana, Inc., one of in 1984. the most successful and controver­CBS quoted one intelligence offi­sial, health-care providers in the na­cer as saying the potential compro­tion, will speak at a luncheon to be mise ofsensitive information should held at Saint Mary's on Thursday. be viewed with "considerable While on campus, she will also pres­seriousness." ent a seminar to nursing students. "Another intelligence expert said 
Humana, the $2.6 billion corpora­no one knows for sure how many or tion which financed the recent what secrets were compromised. A artificial heart transplants ofWilliam '.~ '-~:;l ~ third official called the entire affair a Schroeder and Murray Haydon, ~ ~~_::: ::E··~"~:-T. fiasco," the report said. 
;s.~,. ' 
owns and operates 89 acute-care 

·.-~~~~f.~(~ ~~. It added that intelligence
community hospitals in 23 states 

i:,>J ' 
specialists now believe Moscow wasand three European countries. 
~it· 'f{k(/;' ~ >t~..~--~Y"., ~ • running an earlier version of theControversy has arisen because eavesdropping operation. An an­Humana provides health care on a 
Spring is in the air v 
tenna discovered during thefor-profit basis, and the corporation 
Signs that spring ts really here tn South Bend are juniorHasan Dossal, who sweated itout in a game cleanup after a 1978 fire at the Mos­also recently became the first hospi­
evident in abundance on the campuses of Notre ofultimate, and Pangborn senior Tony Anderson, 
cow embassy "now appears to havetal operator to invade the health in­
Dame and Saint Mary's. Frolicking on tbe South who relaxed and took in all the rays be could get been part of that earlier operation," surance field, with its new plan, Care 
Quad yesterday were sophomore john Raven and while studying. 
CBS said.
Plus. 
Humana has received high marks for financial success in its short his­tory. The company purchased the 



Unarmed U.S. officer killed by Soviet sentry
University of Louisville Hospital in 1983 for operation as a teaching Ludwigslust in the Schwerin district "despite the presence of clearly in East Germany and the Soviets hospital. Although the hospital has about 100 miles northwest ofBerlin visible warning signs in Russian and have three in West Germany, estab­not lost money for years, Humana HEIDELBERG, West Germany -A and about 30 miles from the West German." lished just after World War U under earned a J1 million profit on reve­Soviet sentry shot an unarmed U.S. German border. The Army said Nicholson, 37, of the Allied occupation. Their main nue of n 04.5 million during its first Army officer who was on a President Reagan said Maj. Arthur West Redding, Conn., spoke fluent function now is gathering intelli­
legitimate mission in East Germany Nicholson Jr. "was doing nothingex­Russian. gence.
see HUMANA, page 5 and left him to die without medical cept what we're entitled to do" Nicholson wore a camouflage suit Richard Burt, an assistant secre­aid, U.S. officials said yesterday. The when the Soviet soldier shot him. and carried a camera used to photo­tary of state, said Nicholson cried Soviets said he was "caught red­Asked whether the major was en­graph combat equipment, the Soviet out helplessly to his driver, a ser­handed" taking pictures in a gaged in espionage, Reagan said: Embassy said. geant named Schatz, but Soviet sol­
Note 

restricted area. "We challenge that." "The officer was caught red­diers prevented the sergeant from The Observer announces two 
The Soviets said the guard fired A pentagon official said: "This offi­handed by a Soviet sentry guarding using his first-aid kit to belp him. design changes. "Doonesbury" 
when the American officer tried to cer wasn't doing anything he that equipment," said the statement now will appear on the View­
flee and other soldiers captured his shouldn't have been doing." An offi­by embassy spokesman Vladimir Burt said he got his information point page ofThe Observer. Also, 
driver, who was at their vehicle cial ofthe State Department said the Kulagin, issueel in response to press from Schatz, who was released later daily dinner menus for Notre 
nearby. The State Department called slain officer "was not in a restricted inquiries. "He did not comply with to American authorities in West Ber­Dame and Saint Mary's dining 
the shooting "murder." area" Both spoke on condition of his orders and, after a warning shot, lin. halls will be featured in the 
Each governmentprotested to the anonymity. while attempting to escape, he was "There Is no justification for the "Campus" section of the Today 
other. The Soviet Embassy asserted that killed." murder of Maj. Nicholson," Burt 
The shooting occurred Sunday in Nicholson and his driver were in a The United States, Britain and or near the East German town of restricted zone and entered it France have military liaison offices see KILLING, page 4
page. 
The Observer 



In Brief 

A Newyorkgrand jury agreed yesterday to give Bernhard Goetz until today to testify why he shot four teen-agers on ;(subway, and his lawyer said he will try to counter an "overzealous presenta­tion" from the prosecutor. "Mr. Goetz will indicate to the grand jury that he was a victim and acted to protect himself from a clear and present danger to his person," said defense lawyer Barry Slotnick. Meanwhile, a friend of Goetz appeared before the jury with tapes of phone calls he made to her while he was a fugitive after the shoot­ings. On the tapes, Goetz said he acted as a cornered rat would. -AP 
Of Interest 

Is homosexuality a mortal sin?A discussion 
of this and related topics, such as the counseling of the homosexual at a Catholic university, wiU take place tonight at 7 in Room 2D of LaFortune. The discussion was organized because of a letter to the editor which appeared in the March II issue of The Observer. A panel composed of students and faculty will lead the discussion but participation from the audience is encouraged. -The Observer 
Weather 

Enjoy. Don't worry about the unpredic­table weather, just hope spring is really here. Sunny, breezy and warm this afternoon with highs in the low 60s. Fair and mild tonight with lows near 50. A 40 percent chance of thunder­showers tomorrow with highs in the mid 60s. ­
AP 


The Observer 
1bc Obeervtr (USPS ~99 2-4000) Is published Monday through Friday and on homoe footbaU Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Obeerver Is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's CoUege. Subscriptions may be purchased for 130 per year ( 120 per se­mester) by writing The Obeervtr, P.O. 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Obeerver is a member of The 
AMoclated Prc:M. All reproduction 
rights ""' reserved. 
Tod.ay"s issue was produced by: 

Design Editor.............................. Paul Bruce Designllssistant........}ane Anne Rledford Layout Staff.......................... Alice Kroeger. 
Melissa Warnke. Rebecca Gunderman Typesellers.. ........... Mary EUen Harington, 
Tracy Bringardner News Editor ........................... Marc Ramirez Copy Editor.................................. Frank Upo Sports Copy Editor.....................}etf Blumb Viewpoint Copy Edilor..........}ohn He.asly Viewpoint Layout..................... Paul Bruce Features Copy Editor............Teresa Keefe Features Layout ............. Catherine Coffey ND Day Editor........................Aimee Storin SMC Day Editor ...............Toni Rutherford Ad Design ................. Anne Marie Furleigh, 
Usa Dickinson Pbotograpber ............... Chalt.anya Panchal 
~ MO'fCh of Dimes 
~ --BIRTH DEFECTS FOUNDATIONIIIIIIIIilllil 
IS ALCOHOL APROBLEM IN YOUR FAMILY? 









ALATEEN 

For Young People Affected by Someone Else's Drinking 

IN ALATEEN YOU CAN: 
• 
Meet oth9rs who share your problems 

• 
Learn about alcoholism as an illness 

• 
Share your experience 

• 
Build your self-confidence 



CALL 239 -5085 
OR WMTI flotl C0tW10DfTIAliNFOMIATlON TO: 


---------------.
~---­

Tuesday, March 26, 1985 -page 2 
The city and country mouse head off to college 
This is something like the story of city mouse and country mouse. When we left NewJersey in search ofa 

Sarah
higher education, Monique headed for the University of 
Pennsylvania, in the heart of Philadelphia. I looked 


Hamilton 
among the corn fields and found the Golden Dome. As freshmen-to-be, we packed almost the same 

Editor-in-Chief
things: popcorn poppers, stereos, sweat suits, and our high school calculus books (which made great paper.-------------------­

weights). We thought we were prepared for the college 

experience. But this year our trunks contained quite approximately the same as that from the Arts and 
different items. I packed more sweaters, scarves, Sciences College or Wharton Business School to Al­
blankets, sweats and ·ice skates for the sidewalks. legro's for a stromboli or calzone, to Abner's for a 
Monique filled her trunk with dishes, a toaster oven, an cheese steak, or to O'Hara's or the Tavern for a mugful. 
eight-pack of toilet paper, very comfortable walking On the other hand, one has to walk seven city blocks 
shoes, and subway tokens. to the university's Career Placement Offices. A 20­
Last year Monique visited Notre Dame, and experi-minute bus or subway ride separates the Penn student enced for the first time a tallgater, an SYR, and the Ivy from downtown Philly, the Liberty Bell, society hill, Award-winning Notre Dame Food Services. She realized Chinatown, Veteran's Stadium, the Spectrum, and the why I needed a popcorn popper and more sweaters. a four-block indoor shopping mall. 
Last week I visited Penn. is·;·=·::~~~Jwra:e··~umf1 Hereinliesthedilemmaof 
Home for Monique is an on-Ill campus apartment on the 16th floor of High Rise '-: South. She lives with two young women in a five-room apartment, fully equipped •.••. •. .. . with an efficiency kitchen, .:: :. across the hall from an apart-· ment of four young men. . • This accounted for every­thing but the walking / and subway tokens. Five:. / minutes on the campus ex-•: ·. plained those. 
As the story goes, the city:. mouse and country mouse •: scampered back, each to his : own mouse hole, each more •: .. appreciative of his home. ·•. . : And so Monique and I hot-... footed it back to our own campuses. 
The Penn junior described Notre Dame as quiet and lacking concrete. She noted its crumbling brick build­ings, oozing with tradition. She detected a lower pres­sure factor in the air here than in Pennsylvania. 
When this country mouse first ventured to the big city of brotherly love, she was impressed that history and tradition indeed can survive in the metropolis. The University of Pennsylvania campus is not a concrete jungle. "The Quad," primarily freshman housing, encloses a grass-covered area ofsimilar shape that plays host to the university's Spring Fling, a parallel to AnTos­tal. As a full-fledged member of the Ivy League, (Penn defeated Harvard's Crimson on the football field this year) the campus mixes vine-covered halls with its 
modern graduate schools, hospital, and high rises. Most striking of all was that at Penn one could be on campus and off campus virtually at the same time. The 
distance from O'Shaughnessy to South Dining Hall is the urban campus versus the 
rural one. ·.A College is often thought T1 of as the four-year period in 
one's life dedicated to for­mal education about the world, past, present and future. Consequently, it usually is a time of tremen­dous personal growth. 
The rural campus offers a 
\ serene atmosphere for four years devoted to a liberal eduation and/or a technical one. The placid setting al­lows for self reflection and development. Strong per­sonal relationships may be easier to nurture in a more tranquil environment. 

At the busier end highway, the urban campus affords doser contact with the world about which stu­dents are learning. Rather than developing as individ­uals in an isolated community, students grow as part of society. 
Neither location is inherently evil. For each individ­ual student, one is better than the other. But whichever mouse hole feels more like home, we must remember that each has its snare. The smart city mouse won't get so caught up in the bustle ofcity life that he loses sight of himself as an individual. And neither will his wise country cousin forget that there Is a world to be expert­
enced and people to know beyond his rural campus confines. ---:Th=-e-v-:i_e_w_s_e_x_p-re-s-·s_e_d-:-:-in-t:-h-e-:Ins:---:i-;-d:-e-c-o-=-Iu_m_n__ 
are the views of the author, and do not neces­
sarily reflect the views of the editorial board 
_o_r_s_t_aff._.----------------­

JII""""R~·~-~~·;~"H'~'j'~'"~ 


Styling 
531 N. Michigan St.• 

County· Martiet  BUYERS MARKET PLACE 5901 N. Grape Road Mishawaka, IN  
TOTAL DISCOUNT FOODS  
OPEN 24 HOURS 


i&. Phone 133-4957 Jt.U; 
•••••••••i ........................................~ 

1±:::::===''7 DAYS A WEEK==f:l 

should summer with us. 
Choose from over 300 stimulating courses. from Organic Chemistry to Ronald Reagan's Conservatism; from the First Annual Institute on Church Music to our Eighth Annual Study Tour to Israel. 
Our Special Summer Programs include opportunities in 
• 
Graduate and Undergraduate Studies 

• 
Certificate Programs 

• 
Continuing Education 


For complete information and our Summer Schedule Booklet, Call our SUMMER HOTLINE (open 24 hours daily). 
{201) 761-1053 


Seton Hall University 


The Catholic University in New Jersey Founded in 1856 
South Orange. New Jersey 07079 

The Observer Tuesday, March 26, 1985 -page 3 

Yale Law School dean receives Laetare Medal 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame's 1985 Laetare Medal has been awarded to Guido Calabresi, Sterling professor of law at Yale University and recently­appointed dean of Yale University Law School. The medal, first awarded by Notre Dame in 1883, is the oldest and most prestigious in­stitutional honor given to American 
Catholics. 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, Uni­versity president, announced the award Saturday. "We honor in Guido Calabresi a Catholic intellectual whose learning has tangibly in­fluenced both the philosophy and 

Guido Calabresi 
the application ofthe lawofthe land. As teacher, lawyer, scholar, author and counselor, he has enriched us all in a wide variety ofways," said Hes­burgh. 
Calabresi, 52, was born in Milan, Italy. His parents, who held doc­torates in medicine and philosphy, immigrated to the United Satates in 1939. Calabresi's father, a car­diologist, became became a clinical professor at the Yale medical school and his mother, a philosopher, became chairman of the Italian de­partment. at Albertus Magnus Col­lege in New Haven. 
After Calabresi graduated from 
Yale in 1953 with a bachelor's degree in economics, he attended Magdalen College, Oxford, where he studied politics, philosophy and economics as a Rhodes Scholar. He returned to Yale in 1955 and received his law degree in 1958 as the highest ranking student in his 
class at the Yale Law School. For one year he served· a clerkship with Su­preme Court justice Hugo Black before he returned to Yale Law School. He has been a member ofthe faculty ever since. 
Calabresi is married to the former Anne Gordon Audobon Tyler. They have three children and live in Woodbridge, Conn. 
The Laetare (pronounced LAY­tab-ray) Medal is so named because its recipient is announced each year on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sun­day in Lent in the Church calander. It was conceived as an American counterpart of the "Golden Rose," a papal award which antedates the 11thCentury. Unti11968, the medal was restricted to lay Catholics; priests and religious are now eligi­ble. 
An authority on torts, Calabresi has done much research in the area ofcivil liability. His 1970 book, "The Cost ofAccidents," which criticized the fault-insurance system then in use throughout the nation, was in­fluential in the establishment of no­fault accident insurance in many states. His other books include "Ideals, Beliefs, Attitudes and Law" and "Common Law for the Age of Statutes." 
Calabresi has served as consultant to the Department ofTransportation and to the New York Insurance De­partment. He is director of the Crosby Company in Minneapolis and a member of the board of trus­tees for the Catholic University of America. He has received several other honors, including a 1979 honorary degree from Notre Dame. 

The nextbestthlng 

Pope john Paul II watches cheerfully as his visiting the Italian satellite reception and trans­native homeland, Poland, is broadcast on a mission center in Avezzano on Sunday. satellite monitor. The popesaw the broadcast while 


Engineer's Week gets underway 
Hy LISA M. BOYKIN 
News Staff 
Engineer's Week, which is a weeklong opportu­nity for engineering and architecture majors to cool their circuits for a while, is underway after last night's pizza party at Senior Bar. 
This week's festivities are planned to be "action 
packed," according to Lori Haefner, chairperson for 
the week. 
Tonight's program includes the egg drop contest, inwhich the participants must design acontainerfor an egg such that it will survive a 1 0-foot drop. Other eventsscheduledfor this evening include a competi­tion for the computer card house of greatest resis­tance and engineering bowling night. 
Tomorrow night, students can watch Jim Roche, this year's valedictorian, Bob Vonderheide, Rhodes scholar, and two other engineerinng majors chal­lenge a team offour engineering professors, lead by Assistant Dean jerry Marley of the school of engi­neering, in a trivia bowl. 

Senior engineering majors can participate in Senior Rejection Night at Senior Bar. Seniors who frequently have received rejection letters from po­tential employers may receive a ticket for eachletter at the engineeringstudentcenter. The ticket entitles the student to a special discount at Senior Bar. 
Thursday night is Engineer's Olympics, sponsored 
by Tau Beta Pi, the engineering honor sociecy. This 
includes events such as the wacky relay, the egg toss 
contest, the doughnut eat, and the tug ofwar. 
Friday will give everyone a chance to cross net­works at the ice cream social in Fitzpatrick Hall. Half the proceeds will go to the Millions Against MS Drive. 
Those wishing to integrate themselves into these activities should keep their eyes open for the times and places ofthe week's events. 
Professional Vision 
ASSOCIATES 

Dr. Ronald L. Snyder Dr. Patrick Albert Dr. Jeffrey Coppes 1635 N. Ironwood 1341 Portuge 4612 W. Western 932 E. Ireland 277-1161 234-2400 287-5949 291-7676 North of McDonald's Martin's Shopping Ctr. Belleville Shopping Ctr. Colony Cleaners Bldg. 

'NO/SMC Millions Against MS'­..._¥-ROCK-ALIKE CONTEST.** North Dining Hall $3.00
WedMarch27 (includes 1 vote card
9:30-? 
for favorite performer 

Tix on sale in the Dining Halls Tues. and Wed. during dinner and also avaUab.e atthe door. 
COME HELP US CLOSE OUT OUR 
FUND DRIVE WITH A BANG!!! 
ATTENTION JUNIORS!!! SPATZ'S COUNCIL IS FORMING 
We need Exec. Coordinators and Committee Members for: 
Senior Escape Weekends PublicityOut A' Towners FundraisingSocial Events Athletics 
Liturgical and Community 
SAINT MARY'S COLLeGE PERFORMING ARTS SERIES 

We need Dorm Reps. Pick up applications March 11-15 (LaFortune Info. Desk) Applications due March 29 (Room 264 Alumni) 

The Observer 

Alumni choose national directors 
~to The Observer 
Notre Dame alumni have selected six directors to 

serve on the 19-member board of the National 
Alumni Association. The new directors, represent­
ing different regions of the country, will attend a 
three-day meeting of the board and Alumni Senate, 
beginning April 27 at the University. They will begin 
their three-year terms July 1. 
John Hargrove, a San Diego attorney who received Notre Dame degrees in 1964 and 1967, will represent alumni in his region. He is a former president of the Notre Dame Club of San Diego and has been active in many club activities, Church pro­grams and the Marine Corps Reserve. 
A 19';0 graduate, John Healy of Edina, Minn., has been selected to represent his region of the associa­tion. He is president of MINNOPCO, a real estate investment counseling firm, and served as president of the Notre Dame Club ofMinnesota. 
Richard Griffin, president and chiefexecutive offi­

ct"r of Grifton. Inc.. a real estate and property man­agement firm in Ann Arbor, Mich., is the new director in his region. The 1960 graduate was the founder and first president of the Notre Dame club in his area. John Murphy, a 1947 graduate and former resident of Vetville, a campus housing proj­ect built for World War II veterans, will represent alumni in the New York City area. The resident of Oyster Bay is vice president for retiree relations of Pfizer, Inc., and has been active in New York, Long Island, and Terre Haute alumni groups. 
F. Joseph Drolla, a New Orleans attorney and recipient of several honors for his work with Notre Dame clubs, will represent his region. The 1963 graduate has served on the National Alumni Schools Committee advisory board since its inception in 1972. 
Named to an at-large position on the board, reserved for graduates of the last five years, is Thomas Novitzki of Minneapolis. He is assistant manager in the finance department of Northwest Orient Airlines. The I980 graduate is former secre­tary of the Notre Dame Club ofMinnesota. 



Belland, Bickel to perform at SMC 
Spcdal to The Observer 
"Arias and Duets from the Great Operas" will be performed by Carol Belland, soprano, and Jan Bickel, mezzo-soprano, Thursday at 8 p.m. in Saint Mary's Little Theater. They will be accompanied by Melody Lord-Lundberg, pianist. 
The program, sponsored by Saint 
Mary's music department, is free and 
open to the public. 
Belland holds a bachelor's degree 
in music education from Saint 
Mary's and a master of music degree 
in applied voice from Western Mic­
higan University. She is assistant pro­
fessor of voice at Saint Mary's and 
has been a member ofthe music de­
partment faculty of the College 
since 1976. 
Killing 
continuedfrom page 1 
said, calling the Soviet behavior "inexplicable." • 
Nicholson and Schatz were moni­toring Soviet military activities, as permitted under a 1947 agreement, were 300 to 500 yards from any restricted area and "were not warned In any way before the shots were fired," Burt said. 
He said the first was fired at the driver, missing him, and Nicholson was hit by the second or third shot. 
State Department spokesman Ber­nard Kalb said: "Any use of force is unjustified" under the military liaison agreement with the Soviets. 
The Soviet Embassy statement said, "The Soviet side lodged a resolute protest in this connection and expressed its regret over the death of the American military offi­cer." 
U.S., British and French liaison teams in East Germany, and the three Soviet teams in West Ger­many, travel regularly in un­restricted areas. They use vehicles equipped with cameras, telescopes and sophisticated listening devices. 
Pentagon officials acknowledged the Potsdam liaison office to which he was assigned is an "intelligence­gathering operation" and the Defense Department posts officers there to increase their knowledge of Soviet armed forces. 
"You can't call this man a spy, be­cause the ground rules for the opera­
r 
' 
tion of this mission are quite specific," one source said. 
' 
Correction 
Because of a reporting error, several facts in the March 12 story on the Student Alumni Rela­tions Group were Incorrect. Larry Cunningham and Maria Miceli are not members of the 
group. George Evans Is the chair­
man of the group. 
Belland specializes in Slavic reper­several years and recently regained toire. She has sung in Czech, Russian contact. and Polish, and has performed in Lord-Lundberg has been a mem­Belgium, Germany, Austria, Italy, ber of the faculty of DePaul Univer­and Poland. sity School of Music for the past II 
Bickel, who currently is director years, and currently serves as pianist of vocal music of the Saint Xavier for the American Chamber Sym­College music department, received phony in Chicago. a bachelor's degree in music from Belland and Bickel have chosen to 
Saint Mary's and a master of music perform arias and duets. Selections degree in vocal performance from will include "Ah fors e lui," from "La the Chicago Conservatory ofMusic. Traviata," "Habanera," from 
Bickel was a national finalist in the "Carmen," "Flower Duet," from National Opera Association 1984-85 "Madame Butterfly," and "Mira, o Artist Competition, and recently Norma," from "Norma." Aspecial se­was accepted as a member of the lection will be Rossini's "Duetto Lincoln Opera Company. buffo di Due Gatti." 
Belland and Bickel were class­The public is invited to attend a mates at Saint Mary's and performed "meet the artists" reception imme­together frequently during their col­diately after the concert in Habig lege years. They lost touch for Lounge of Moreau Hall. 


!JOHN MARSHALL
•
: LAW SCHOOL 
: 1393 Peachtree 8t., N.E. Atlanta, GA 30309
i APPLICATIONS TAKEN NOW · ~February. June. September Admissions : Day or Evening Classes
. 
_., 
• John Marshall Law School admits without regardi to national or ethnic origin  : :  
•:  APPROVED FOR VETERANS  •:  
:  Graduation from John Marshall meets the  :  
:•:  requirementsfor admission to the Bar Examination in Georgia and Indiana ONLY  :·•:  
:  (404) 872-3593  :  


Applications for Off Campus Coordinators available in Student Government Offices 
Openings in the following commissions: 
• Liturgical •social eAthletic eSocial Concerns/ 
Community Affairs •Treasurer Must be living Off Campus next year Deadline: Monday, April1 Any questions? Call Beaver: 2225 
i
• 
..,~~~--!,., : 
-,.;~~~:~· ; 
fl;.-~:


t.-'l
V1 .: : 
~.... 

Tuesday, March 26, 1985 -page 4 
Senate 
continuedfrom page 1 

other senators." AI Novas, student body treasurer, said he rejected this option for the same reason he rejected the amendment allowing class presidents to vote: it unneces­sarily gave each student two represenatives in the Senate. 
Wurth proposed that each of the respective halls be allowed to choose between accepting the senator or havi~g another election. Mike Quinn, executive coordinator, warned against this and said, "Hall council members could be against him and they could vote him out of 
FAMOUS LAST WORDS FROM FRIENDS TO FRIENDS. 
"Are you OK todrit·er" "W/wts uti•tt·lwer.~r· 
"Did !JOlt hrll't' too IIIIlCh to tlriuk(' "/'111 fW11i•cllitli'lli'." 
"An• you iu IIII!J.~hnpe to rlrit•el" "/'t•r• lli't'l'l'ji-lt lwtfe1:" 
there. Also, how could we com­
pensate him for his time (he spent 
campaigning in the first election)?" 

The matter concluded with a 10-4 
vote. It goes before the Hall Presi­
dents' Council tonight. 

In other matters, the senate ap­proved a S1 ,000 donation to the MS fund drive. The wording of the resolution implied the amount will be shared by the Student Senate, the Hall Presidents' Council, and the Student Activities Board. Novas said the money partly would be taken from the unused Little Sibs budget. 
Student Body President-elect Bill Healy said he thought this donation might bring the drive total to ap­proximately $15,000 to $20,000. 
DRINKING AND DRIVING 
CAN KILL A FRIENDSHIR 


The Observer 
The Independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Is accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant Production Manager 
For further Information contact John Mennen at The Observer (239-5303) by 5 p.m. Thursday, March 28. 

SUMMERSCHOOL 
INCLEVELAND 
ATJOHN CARROLL UNIVERSITY SESSIONI SESSIONll 
June 17-July 19 July 2:l-August22 
Gain one year in one summer! 
• 
Business • Mathematics 

• 
Computer Science • Natural Sciences 

• 
Education • Religious Studies 

• 
English • Social Sciences 

• 
Humanities ... and others 


. To get our Schedule of Summer Classes, mail coupon or call (216) 491-4318 
John Carroll University 
Oirector of Summer Sessions• University Heights, Ohio 441 HI 
---------------------------·---­
I  
I  
f\anw  ___  .  __  I  
I  
I  
Addn·s.~  ~  ___  --·--·--·--·----··-----------··---···  I  
I  
I  
('j(,·  ..,___ Sial<·  ...___  ·-··Zip  I  

.__..........._._••••••••••••••••••••••••• I 

The Observer Tuesday, March 26, 1985 -page 5 
Journalist kidnapped in Lebanon 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -Gunmen kid­napped a British journalist yesterday near Beirut, and a Lebanese under­ground group said it abducted a Frenchman who was reported mis­sing in the northern port ofTripoli. 
The Lebanese Armed Revolution­
ary Factions demanded that a 
comrade jailed in France be freed 
within 48 hours in exchange for the 
Frenchman, Gilles Sidney Peyrolles. 
He was the fourth French citizen to 
be kidnapped in Lebanon since 
Friday. 
Eight Westerners have disap­
peared in Lebanon since March 14. 
A U.N. official, who asked not to be identified, said Briton Alec Col­lett, 63, was in Lebanon on a special writing assignment for the U.N. Relief and Works Agency. He said gunmen stopped Collett's car at about 2 p.m. near the Khalde junc­tion south of the capital. 
The gunmen took Collett away in 
a car, the U.N. official said, leaving 
behind an Austrian traveling with 
him. Officials of the U.N. agency in 
Vienna identified the Austrian as 
Fritz Heindl, an employee of the 
refugee agency. 
Peyrolles, director of the French 
cultural center in Tripoli, was re­
ported seen last Saturday afternoon 
in the port city 50 miles north of 
Beirut. 
A statement delivered yesterday 
to a Western news agency in the cap­
ital said the Revolutionary Factions 
abducted him and demanded the 
release of Abdel-Kader Saadi within 
48hours. 
Saadi was arrested Oct. 24 in the 
French city of Lyon, French police 
reported, while using the name Ab­
dallah Georges Ibrahim. 


'Amadeus' takes Oscar for 1984's best picture 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES-"Amadeus," a fie­tional account of Mozart's tor­mented final years, dominated the Academy Awards yesterday with eight Oscars, including best picture and best actor for F. Murray Abra­ham, as the jealous, second-rate composer Salieri. Sally Field was 
named best actress for her role as a 
gritty farm widow in "Places in the 
Heart." 

Haing Ngor, a Cambodian refugee 
making his acting debut as an Ameri­
can reporter's assistant in "The K.il­
speeches. It ended just after mid­
night EST. 
The most popular award of the evening was presented to James Stewart by Cary Grant, an honorary Oscar for Stewart's "50 years of memorable performances, for high ideals both on and offthe screen." 
Stewart marched onstage to a standing ovation and with cus­tomary modesty, thanked all of his co-workers -"Everybody who was there with me and helped me along between 'action!' and 'cut!'" 
Rock star Prince won the Oscar for best original score for his 

ling Fields," and the veteran Dame autobiographical "Purple~·" and Peggy Ashcroft, as the enigmatic En-came up to accept his award in a glish visitor in "A Passage to India," blue sequined burnoose. "I couh;,l were named best supporting never imagine this in my wildest performers at the 57th Academy dreams," he said. 
Awards. 

The Czech-born Milos Forman won as best director for "Amadeus," and the movie also won awards for makeup, sound, art direction, costume design and best adaptation by playwright Peter Shaffer. 
This year's telecast of the Oscars was slicker and faster-paced thanlast year's, when the show dragged on for a stupefying 3 hours, 45 minutes and plunged in the ratings. The em­phasis was on lavish production numbers and short acceptance 
"The Killing Fields" won for best cinematography and editing. 
Benton won the best original screenplay Oscar for "Places in the Heart." 
Voted best foreign film was Swit­zerland's "Dangerous Moves." 
At the outset, emcee Jack Lem-
moo sounded the keynote for the 
ABC telecast, which had been pat­
terned to avoid last year's marathon. 
Said Lemmon: "Brevity is the soul 
ofwit, and we hope to be very witty 
tonight." 

Ohio savings and loans reopen on limited basis 
Associated Press finishing work on legislation de­
signed to speed up the acquisition of 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -Virtually all of Home State Savings Bank, the the Ohio savings and loans ordered Cincinnati-based trust whose closed most oflast week because ofa closing on March 9 after a three-day banking emergency reopened for at run on deposits triggered the crisis. least limited service yesterday. Some reported long lines ofcustom­Checks with the savings and loans ers, but most said business was re­showed all but a few of the 69 trust turnin~ to normal. institutions that were closed March 
Meanwhile, a state lawmaker was 15 were opened yesterday. Lines 
Dept. of Communication and Theatre Film Series at the Snite 

Monday. March 25  Tuesday, March 26  
John Huston's offbeat  Alfred Hitchcock's original British  
Beat the Devil (1954)  The Man Who Knew Too Much (1934)  
with Humphrey Bogart  
9:00pm  

Individual Admission $2.50 

were reported outside at least three Cincinnati-area trusts, but there were no signs of the panic that had prompted the closings 10 days ear­lier. 
Gov. Richard Celeste signed legis­lation last week allowing all the closed state-chartered S&Ls to reopen if they obtained federal deposit insurance. Other conditions were that the institutions be owned 
UGLY 
DUCKLING 
Rent-a-car 
(oruan) 
Notre Dame Weekend Special 
259-8459 


NO CIVIUAN BAND 
CAN MAKE YOU THIS OFFER. 

If you're a musician who's serious about performing, you should take a serious look at the Army. 
Army bands offer you an average of 40 performances a month. In every­thing from concerts to parades. 
Army bands also offer you a chance to travel. 
The Army has bands performing in Japan. Hawaii. Europe and all across America. 
And Army bands offer you the chance to play with good musicians. Just to qualify, you have to be able to sight­read music you've never seen before and demonstrate several other musical skills. 
It's a genuine, right-now, imme­diate opportunity. 
Compare it to your civilian offers. Then write: Army Opportunities, P.O. Box 7715, Clifton, NJ 07015. 
ARMY BAND. BE ALLYOU CAN BE. 


or agree to merge with a company already federally insured and dem­onstrate to the satisfaction of the state superintendent of savings and loans that the interests ofdepositors will not be jeopardized. 
Trusts that had not obtained pertnission to reopen for full ser­vice, however, were able to open to accept deposits and permit withdrawals ofup to $750. 
Humana 
continuedfrom page 1 
16 months of operation. In another bold step, the corporation recently offered to build and operate a new $40 million, 224-bed teaching . hospital for the Chicago Medical 
School. 
Mershon has occupied her pres­ent position at Humana since 1980. She is responsible for developing corporate nursing strategy for all of the company's hosP.itals, a job which includes both creating an environ­ment conducive to providing a sta­ble, adequate nursing work force, and maintaining communication and involvement with national and state nursing organizations and nur­sing schools in Humana communit­ies. 
March of Dimes 
-BIRTH DEfEClS fOUNDATION-
SAVES BABIES 
Engineering Week Treasure Hunt 
Clue 1: When found, this prize will be your crowning achievement. 
Clue 2: This clue is the right size for March 17th. 
When you find the certificate, contact Mary George, x3680. 
1, 
j 
1 
1 
~ 
1 

r------------.~------------------------------------------~-------­
~i~~~_<>__i_ll___t_________________Tu-es_d~_,M_~_ch_2_6,_19-85--pa-ge-6 
Student Senate began restructuring way too late 
In recent weeks the Student Senate has hall presidents from the voting body of the elected, it is not only the officers themselves It is not fair to anyone concerned if this been trying to decide upon a structure for stu· senate. who will suffer, but the students that elected restructuring plan is put into effect this year. If dent government next year. The result has Even though the present senate may see them. When the students went to vote in the the senate hopes to initiate a new structure this structure as the best way for the senate to recent elections, they voted for a person that will be permanent, they should not try to be more effective, they have neglected to whom they saw to be capable ofhandling the rush this through a senate in an incomplete
Kevin Becker 
realize one thing · the students have already responsibility ofa certain office. The students and controversial manner. elected their representatives for the following voted with the idea that they were going to be A matter as serious as this should not be to the point year. Any change in the duties of these newly represented in a certain way when they cast taken lightly. In the past few weeks the senate 
elected student government members is nei· their ballot for a specific candidate with spe· meetings about this subject have been heated. been numerous debates and a pervading air of ther fair to these members-elect or to the con­cific characteristics. Now, their votes may be Not all of the members know all of the facts di.sagteement among senate members. stituency that elected them. for naught. about this restructuring, while others have a 
As noble as this attempt to refurbish student The senate should have had all of this How can the senate possibly believe that vested interest in what the results ofall ofthis government may be, it comes at a time when restructuring done before they decided to any new structure at such a late time in their turmoil are. Can this group of confused the present senators' terms are about to hold electioll$. It is simply ridiculous to have a terms will be legitimate? What they are pro· senators ever put into effect a plan that will be expire and newly elected representatives are student government official elected and then pose is simply not feasable. beneficial for the entire student body for years preparing to take office. The attempt is too change his job description immediately to come?
It seems they are trying to complete work

late. before he is to assume office. The time has come for this year's
that should have been done long ago at a time

What the senate proposes is to make signifi· When next year's class presidents decided controversy-laden senate to step aside and let
that should be devoted to preparing for a 

cant changes in the way that students are to run for office, they had the idea that they their successors finish this work ofrestructur·
smooth transition between administrations.

represented in student government. would be voting members of the senate if ing. They are trying to·complete a task in a elected. Now that they are preparing to begin In order to combat the lack oftime that the short time that requires much thought and One of the more controversial articles the their terms, they find that the responsibilities present administration is facing, Student Body much discussion. If they succeed in passing senate is putting to a vote is the restructuring ofthe office may be changed. President Rob Bertino urged the senators to this proposal to restructure the student gov­of the senate itself. Less certain than the class presidents are vote to extend their terms for an extra two ernment now, they will have succeeded in 
As proposed for next year, the senate will the newly· elected senators. Ifthis year's sen­weeks. This is even more ludicrous than the making the biggest mistake oftheir time in of· consist ofone representative from each dorm, ate votes to implement this new structure, the senate trying to put this plan into effect at fice and the students will ultimately suffer. an• off-campus commissioner and a student people whom the students have just voted such a late time in the first place. Why is it that body vice president as a tie breaker. Also in· into office may not even have a job. In the senate couldn't finish their work in the Kevin Becker is a freshman at Notre Dame eluded in this plan is the exclusionofclass and changing the job description of the newly time allotted? and is a regular Viewpoint colwnnist. 
No president can rival Reagan's appointments 
The resignation of Labor Secratary partment with competent, ifnot conciliatory, There has got to be an ideological clone out The only thing more amazing than the ap­Raymond Donovan March 15 is the best thing leadership. there somewhere who has not received pointments themselves is the complete that has happened to the Labor Department in But why was Donovan ever appointed interest-free loans in exchange for political immunity from responsibility the president the last four years. The appointment of Labor Secratary in the first place? He had an favors. enjoys. Haig terrified the nation, Watt strip­established history ofconflict with labor uni­Even when they are not criminals, mined Federal land, Burford made a mockery ons and was long suspected ofhaving ties with suspected criminals, liars, or certifiable of the EPA, Pendleton insulted the civil rights 
John Neblo 
organized crime. Surely there was someone loonies, Reagan appointees have a knack for movement, Bennet angered students and both better qualified and free from criminal sayingand doing the outrageous. William Ben· their parents, but all Teflon Ron needs to do suspicion, even someone sharing Reagan's net thinks students wouldn't need loans if for absolution is smile that Hollywood smile. 
outside, looking in 

anti-labor bias. they would only make certain "divestitures." All is forgiven; as a matter of fact we never Clarence Pendleton thinks black civil rights really blamed him at all.
Donovan's appointment is only one of the 

William Brock to that vacated post is the leaders are fostering a "new racism." David 
many bizarre high-level appointments made Good luck to William Brock and thank God 
Stockman, the administration's enfant

second best thing. by President Reagan during his term ofoffice. for him. There is a lot ofwork to be done at the 
The Labor Department had been essentially prodige behaved like a spoiled child before Labor Department. Good luck to Ed Meese, leaderless since Donovan took a six month What was the best thing to happen at the recent Senate budget committees. The spec· 
r 
William Bennet, Clarence Pendleton, Davidr r "leave of absence" in September to defend EPA in the last four years? The resignation of tum ofappointees ranges from the dangerous Stockman, may they preserve justice, protect himself against charges of fraud and larceny. Ann Burford. What was the best thing to hap· to the harmlessly absurd. our environment, run our schools, promoteEven before the grand jury indictments were pen at the Department of the Interior in the Reagan is by no means the first President to civil rights, and reduce the deficit. brought against him, Donovan's sole ac· last four years? The resignation ofJames Watt. be embarassed by his appointees. Jimmy 
Good luck to our fair citizens; they will complishments had been to destroy any The greatest step taken toward the preserva­Carter had to live down Bert Lance. Richard 
need it. 
working relationship between his office and tion of world peace? The resignation ofAlex­Nixon had Spiro Agnew and Earl Butz. America's labor leaders and to alienate himself ander Haig. Even Reagan's staunchest However, I cannot imagine a past president from his own staff. Brock, on the other hand, supporters shake their heads in wonder at who can rival Reagan (either in volume or in john Neblo is a senior economics major at has proven himself an able and hard working some ofhis appointments. Why does he insist magnitude) for his questionable appoint· Notre Dame anda regular Viewpoint colwn­administrator and is sure to provide the de· on having Ed Meese as his Attorney General? ments. nist. 
Gorbachev will be Reagan's first challenge 
Who can doubt that we live in a fateful time? andWoodrowWilsonin 1917. Theywerebid· could have followed Eastern Europe into the other. But Jimmy Carterlacked the qualities of Chernenko died exactly on schedule to ding for leadership ofthe postwar world. Wil­Soviet nightmare · but didn't. · either lion or fox needed for a sustained duel enable Gorbachev to succeed him in time for son offered democracy and After some misadventures with Beria and with Soviet leaders. the Geneva talks, and gave Reagan the chance self-determination, and Lenin a new plan for Malenkov, the Soviet succession fixed on the After the eerie experience of watching 
the capture of state power to pursue a utopia considerable figure of Nikita Krushchev. His three dying men in Moscow exiled to the un· ofsocial engineering that became a nightmare method was anti-Stalin reform at home and yielding dust, Ronald Reagan now confronts
Max Lerner 
ofdystopia. bullying abroad. It disrupted the Paris summit the first general secretary who can match and Wilson's successors in the 1920's· Harding, which Eisenhower had banked on, and chilled testhim. · 
The Max Lerner Column Coolidge and Hoover · were no match for the Vienna summit with the youthful Ameri· The duel will be sharply focused on the Stalin as Lenin's successors. Franklin can president, John Kennedy. crisis in weapons negotiations, which is likely Roosevelt, who followed them, was a greater Krushchev caught Kennedy unprepared at to continue until Reagan leaves office. 
to invite Gorbachev to a summit. The con­man than Stalin but misjudged Stalin badly, the Berlin Wall, but with the Cuban missiles, It will match two leaders who have moved junction of the stars couldn't have done bet· seeing him primarily as an ally to be wooed when Kennedy had grown up, Krushchev from an absorption with their economies to ter. History has ruses beyond the astrologers. rather than as a rival to wrestle with. The overreached and had a great fall. But the fall global affilirs. This time the American is the 
Reagan and Gorbachev are the end result was a greater setback for the West than started the great Soviet missle building spree. more seasoned, while the Russian is meeting products oftwo very different lines ofsucces· it had to be, and the start for a Russian empire The duels with Krushchev were full of fire his first word test. It will be aduel in the sun of sion whose principle figures, since the Rus­in Europe. and thunder. Those between Breshnev and publicity, but also (like the earlierones) in the sian Revolution, have fought it out in the It was left to Harry Truman, a lesser figure Nixon had to mix bluffwith wile. It may well darkness that the weapons still spread. competition ofthe world arena. than FOR, to duel with Stalin far more effec­have been the period when detente came 
r It all began with a bang, with Nikolai Lenin tively and to retrieve a Western Europe that closer to being effectively tested than any (C) 1985, LOSANGELES TIMES SYNDICATE 
r 
r Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
r 

"50 AS NOT70 UI4KE HIM UPWITH
"AT 3:00A.M.,JEFFREY

r 
THE3 L./6HT, I TRY 7V CHANG&HIS
CR/133 OUT IN HIS S/££P. 
0/APEFS IN 7rJTAL. OARJ<N~ A7A5I<
FR/JM /A/HilT JOAN/£ HAS 
RIUiHJ...Y /3/)l/AL IN 0/FF/QJI..JY TO
7aoM£, I KNOW THIS 
TAI<INGAPAKTAN{) REA55EM8WJ6
PRDBA8LY MeANSHE'S 
Wf3T." 


Policy 
Viewpoint would ltke to hear from you. If you would ltke to respond to somethingyou've read in The Observer, wby not write a letter to the editor. Let· ters should he well-written, typed, no more than 250 words in length and must bear the signature of the author. 
Letters which are not signed by the au­thor will not he published. 
The Observer reseroes the right to edit all material submitted to the Viewpoint departmentforpublication. 

VieWP-Oint Tuesday, March 26, 1985 -page 7 
Is Reagan fighting terrorism with terrorism? 
Terrorism is one of the most repulsive and immoral forms ofviolence. It is shocking in its casual disregard for the lives of the innocent. Terrorist attacks more often than not hit sym­bolic targets, not strategic ones. The bombing of the U.S. Marine compound in Beirut is an 
Pete Manzo 
father ofthe Man 

example of an attack which struck a target both symbolic and strategic. More typical ex­amples would be the recent incidents in Nor­them Ireland. Not all terrorists are crazed Islamic extremists, as a popular, somewhat racist, charicature nqw holds. Some weeks ago, IRA members killed several policemen in a mortar attack on a fortified police station. With usual wisdom and poetic justice, Protes­tant militants struck a blow for order and justice by shooting and killing a Catholic policeman. Both targets were chosen to ex­press hatred and rage, and made little progress toward real political gains. Bomb attacks such as that at Paris' Orly Airport in the summer of 1983 seem even more reprehensible, ifthat is possible, because of their victims' complete 
lack of association with an identifiable adver­sary. 
Terrorist attacks made upon U.S. citizens and property, diplomats, and members of the armed forces have caused much well­warranted concern in this country. There were over 200 incidents in 1983 alone. The Reagan administration, perhaps out of anger and frustration, which admittedly was shared by many U.S. citizens, attempted to outline a new, more aggressive anti-terrorist policy, spearheaded by a package of four bills pro­posed last April and by statements by Reagan and other administration members. The debate over the need for such a new policy provided some interesting observations and raised the possibility that the U.S. may itself be guilty ofsponsoring terrorism. 
Secretary ofState George P. Schultz caused some anxiety with an endorsement of pre­emptive strikes on terrorist groups, made in a speech at the Jonathan Institute in Washing­ton last spring. Critics pointed out that it would be extremely difficult to be certain 
when a pre-emptive strike would be warran­ted. This difficulty would be even greater than that involved in targeting groups responsible for terrorist acts already committed. This call for retaliatory and pre-emptive strikes seemed similar to Israel's policy. While Schultz saw the certainty ofswift response as the best deterrent to terrorist acts, critics noted that Israel's external security situation is much more severe than ours and also pointed out the very great danger that inno­cent civilians would be killed or hurt. Israeli raids give ample evidence in support of this 
concern. 
Perhaps ironically, William Colby, who headed the CIA in the years 1973-76, gave a good summ;~tion ofthe argument for extreme prudence in U.S. efforts to combat terrorism. In an article entered into the Congressional Record, Colby wrote, "Ifterrorism is the indis­criminate use of force against innocent bystanders, it is clear that a government resist­ing terrorism must be discriminate in the use offorce to insure the safety ofits bystanders." 
Presumably this would apply to all bystanders, not just one country's own. 
~olby's definitionofterrorism is significant. He distinguished terrorism, "indiscriminate violence used against innocent bystanders for political effect," from the "selective use ofvio­lence against the symbols and institutions ofa contested power, which is unfortunately a norm of international life." He claimed that this definition was necessary to separate sup­port for terrorists from covert support of "friendly forces like the Nicaraguan Contras." He, too, made an unfortunate comparison of these to the American colonial revolutionar­ies. In this way, he resolved the ambiguity that "one man's terrorist is another's freedom fighter." 
However, it may be possible to claim that the Contras are in many ways indistin­guishable from terrorists in their methods, regardless of the vocabulary used to describe them. A recent report from Americas Watch, a non-partisan foreign affairs monitor, claimed 
that through 1984 to the present, the Contras have kidnapped, tortured, raped, mutilated, and murdered numerous unarmed civilians, including fleeing women and children. John Stockwell, and ex-CIA field operative who spoke on campus last Tuesday, told ofspeak­ingwith people who described such atrocities as castration offathers and rape ofwomen and girls in front oftheir families, the explosion of grenades in victims' mouths, or severed heads impaled in prominent places. He claimed that these were not random incidents but part ofa strategy of intimidation with which he became familiar in his years with the CIA. The disclosure last fall that the CIA was publishing pamphlets on "psychological warfare" and distributing them to the contras does little to 

detract from a view ofContra efforts as terror­ist, orfrom the extent ofU.S. responsibility for these activities. 
Admittedly, objections to this characteriza­tion could run along these lines, that innocent people die and atrocities occur in all armed conflicts, and that the Contras warrant desig­nation as combatants in a declared civil war, not least in virtue of their control of signifi­cant amounts of territory. Atrocities will oc­cur, but attention must be given to the possibility that these are not accidents but manifestations of Contra policy. If this is so, Contra atrocities would fit our definition of terrorist acts as indiscriminate violence di­rected at the innocent for political purposes (as if such things would ever be acceptable under any other label). Further, though the 
PLO, for example, seems to have controlled territories in the past, there has been little hesitationin labeling them as terrorist groups. 
The Reagan administration has demon­strated a sincere concern over the spread of state-sponsored terrorism, and appears to have made attempts at implementing an ag­gressive anti-terrorist policy. It is ironic and enlightening to see that this administration may be supporting terrorism with its left hand while condemning it with its right. In the same speech advocating pre-emptive strikes, Secretary of State Schultz outlined the moral right and duty ofgovernments to oppose ter­rorism. "Democracies seek a world order basedon justice," and terrorist acts are "blows to our most fundamental values." Well said. 
Pete Manzo is a seniorgovernment major at Notre Dame and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Arthur Laffer is going straight after a senate seat 

Arthur Laffer, the curvaceous semi­economist, is off and running for the Senate, and he clearly has the eye of some busines­smen. That was why 850 men and women (mainly men) took off three hours in the 
Garry Wills 
outrider 

middle of a working Tuesday to eat rubber beefand hear Laffer discuss his ideas in an ex­change with ex-GovernorJerry Brown. 
The business school of Pepperdine Univer­sity, where Laffer has recently become a professor, sponsors these luncheons regu­larly, but the coordinator ofthis affair told me it brought over twice the normal turnout. 
Laffer, put on display as an attraction for Pepperdine's MBA program, left no doubt as to why he was there. He wandered away from economics to use one-liners from the political hustings, attacking the Simpson-Mazzoli bill for granting citizenship and denying jobs. He dwelt on President Carter's failures: 
"Remember when we had all those Americans 
vacatiorung in Tehran?" The woman acr~ 
from me was especially enthusiastic ovt:r 
these quips, and offered as one reason that "he 
does not look like an academic, always 
smiling." 
Jerry Brown, in a reversal of roles, was the 
ex-pol who looked very much the academic, 
gravely citing figures and tracing troubling 
drifts. He argued that America is ceasing to be 
the brains behind the multiple forces of 
worldwide production. "Fifty percent of the 
Ph.D.s in the hard sciences (received in 
America) are for foreigners. Math and science 
positions are vacant in our schools. Only 20 
percent ofresearch and development (funds) .are going into non-military uses." 
For Laffer, "growth is everything." He said 
the word growth with awe, in an endless 
litany, in every context. Brown asked what 
kind ofgrowth. Growth in the dollar, and loss 
ofdemand for our industrial product? Growth 
in the numbers of those educated, and ir­
relevance ofthe education? 
Laffer was all over the lot, touchingpolitical 
chords, although the announced subject of the debate was "The National Economic Out­look: What Business Can Expect." 
He wrapped himself in the flag of Ronald Reagan. Uke his patron, he thinks so little of the enemy that he can barely bring himselfto pronounce the loathed name: Where Reagan says "guv-mint," Laffer says "Washing, D.C." 
Professor Laffer has an infectious enthusi­asm for himself. He boasted that he intro­duced the idea of enterprise zones 13 years ago, or was it 11. In repeated flourishes, to show how the economy has taken off, he drove his right hand up at full speed in a kind ofghostly "heil" sign. 
The reason for all this was not lost on anyone. Laffer may be accused ofmany things, but never ofsubtlety. After attacking Washing­ton minds who prefer "complex error to simple truth," he turned with a bright boy's smile on his real target: "Can any ofyou imag­ine Alan Cranston in a real job?" 
The format itself was a testimony to the death of America's attention span, geared to TV segments. Three different issues.were ad­dressed by each man for five minutes; then a panel of four men got to ask three questions each, calling for four-minute answers. Then the "debaters" summarizedfor three minutes. The race to cover a whole subject with each question led to rapid-fire deliVery, one-liners, and the breaking offofreflections just as they might have become interesting. Laffer obvi­ously prefers this rhythm, working in ex­traneous jokes to break up his material into even smaller bites. 

When a panelist asked a confusedly flatter­ing question about Brown's attempts to promote business initiative when he was governor, Brownstepped backwith a modest, "That's a complex, compundquestion if I ever heard one ..." Laffer bustledinwith a laugh: "I didn't understand it either." Brown quietly said, "I understood that it was more favorable to me than to you." Laffer laughed loudly, and kept laughing off the beat, as Brown started to 
sort out the question. 
l.affer is getting about 30 percent name 
recognition from the voters so far -they know 
him mainly through his curve. That was a PR 
gimmick in the first place. It may be fulfilling 
its destiny. 
(C) 1985 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
P.O.Box Q 

Saint Mary's athletic director does good job 
DearEditor: 
At least twice last fall, articles appeared in The Observer that were critical of the Saint Mary's athletic programs. The turnover in coaches and other problems were used as ex­amples of poor athletic administration. Be­cause of her position, first year Athletic 
DirectorJoanne Nestor hasborne the heaviest 
share ofthe attacks. 
I have participated in and viewed the Saint Mary's athletic situation this past year and am wonderingwhen the apologies due Dr. Nestor are going to come. In taking over the position of athletic director, she inherited pro ems but set out to solve them. Within the means at her disposal, she has done a superb job. She is a talented and hard-working professional who promotes and develops excellence. The wo­men ofSaint Mary's can attest to this and it is time for the earlierllrideserved criticism to be retracted. 
Megan Heller LeMans 
Kersten states what all Catholics should state 
DearEditor: 
I agree with Margie Kersten's Inside Column of March 11. It's about time Saint Mary's became involved with all aspects of their students' lives. 
I will wager there's many an unenlightened young lady on campus who still harbors the archaic belief that some things are personal and should remain so. 
By compiling statistics obtained through the survey, Campus Ministry Will be better qualified to determine where attitudes are old fashioned and where "education" is needed. 
Courses teaching Situation Ethics and Values Clarification have proven very effec­tive in helping young people to mature and know themselves better. 
I agree there is no reason why Saint Mary's should be any different than other colleges and universities. In this age ofecumenism, we are encouraged to lessen the gap between the Church and the secular world by becoming more like them. 

er at one ume, a a ·c us Ministry might have formed their students' at­titudes by exposing them to the many papal encyclicals which so beautifully and com­pletely uphold the Catholic faith. Perhaps promoting the message of Fatima (daily roasary and penance)was also included under their job description. I imagine even the Ten 
Commandments were studied at one time. A 1979 Gallup survey indicated that only 44 pecent of Roman Catholics could name as many as four of the Ten Commandments. 
Kersten has obviously been studying hard. She has learned her lesson well. One might even be justified in granting her a diploma ­Graduate of the American Catholic Church. I wish her well. 
Shirley Cusbnte Kailua, Hawaii 


Editorial Board Department Managers 
(219) 239-5303 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-tn-Chtel . Sarah E. Ham11ton Business Manager. . ..... Oav•d Stephenttch Managmg Editor. Amy Stephan Advertising Manager . Anne Culltgan
The Observer IS the Independent newpaper published by the students of the 
News Editor. .Keith Harrison Jr. Controller . _ Btll Htghducheck
University of Notre Dan·~· du Lac and Saint Mary"s College. It does not necessarily 
News Editor. . Dan McCullough Systems Manager. _ Mark B. Johnson reflect the policies of the .:~dmm1strat1on of either institution. The news is reported as 
Samt Mary"s Executtve Edttor. Theresa Guanno Productton Manager John A. Mennell 
accurately and as objectively as possible. Uns1gned editorials represent the opinion. 
Sports Edttor. Jeff Bk.lmb of a majority of the Ed1tonal Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column Accent Edt tor .. _ _Mary Healy 
present the v1ews of the1r authors. Column space is available to all members of the Vtewpomt Editor Joe Murphy commun1ty. and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. Photography Edtlor . Peter C. Laches 1s encouraged. Copy Chief. . ........ . . __ Frank Ltpo Founded November 3, 1966 
r 
r-------------~--------------­
Accent 

1An lnfinirely Funny Guide for rhe Fairhful. the Fallen. and Everyone ln-l3etween 
Mary Jane Frances Cavolina Meara. 
Jeffrey Allen Joseph Stone. 
Maureen Anne Teresa Kelly. 
Richard Glen Michael Davis 

Making fun of the faithful and the fallen 

Chris Bowler 
Book review 
R
emember the taste ofthose wafer-thin processed hosts?Could 
you ever forget the sight ofthe multi-plaid jumpers or color 

coordinated shirts and corduroy pants you wore in grade school? 
Do mandatory ceo classes on the weekend provoke memories of 
boredom? 
These elements ofyour Catholic past ace tilir game for the 
authors of"Growing Up Catholic," a paperback reference guide 
that makes fun of"the faithful, the fallen, and everyone in­
between." More than a mere scrapbook ofone's parochial past, 
"Growing Up Catholic" provides a humorous perspective on the 
behavior ofCatholics from the confessional to the latest in fashions 
for the liberal "anything goes" nun. 
"Growing Up Catholic" rides on the shirt-tails ofits faddish 
predecessor, "The Preppy handbook." The subjects ace written in a 
topical manner; short blurbs touch on aspects of Catholic life 
twisted to exaggerate our favorite religious stereotypes. Detailed 
illustrations and interesting charts make for easy and rapid reading. 
A section on church worship, for example, includes a mock 
parish bulletin (complete with ads on the back page), a side bar on 
the use (and abuse) ofholy water, and a floor plan ofwhere to sit in 
church. 
The stereotypes presented in "Growing Up Catholic" ace not 
unique. The authors smack at Sister Mary Drill-Sergeant with no 
breasts and a long yardstick ready to inflict corporal punishment on 
naughty students. Other digs seem old: the church's fasting 
regulations, fish on Lenten Fridays, and fire and brimstone sermons. 
The book cleverly satitizes other aspects ofparochial school and 
parish life. Did you ever notice lackadaisicaJ church-goers filing 
into mass in the middle ofthe Gospel and make a bee-line for the 
parking lot immediately after receiving communion? 
The concept of naming children after saints is humorously attacked. Names like Mary, Margaret, Joseph and Michael ace appropriate. Others like Sunshine, Trevor, Chet, and Moon Unit ace tota.IJy unacceptable names for Catholic children. 
The authors shy away from satirization ofmore serious Catholic subjects like celibacy, abortion, and birth control. The book's weakness may lie in this kind ofsuperficiality. 
The book recognizes at the outset that the rules and regulations have changed since Vatican II and the experiences ofolder Catholics differ radically from the upbringing ofthose born in the 1960s. Yet the memories that it recalls still apply to many ofthe college youth today. 
The authors are at their best when keying on the idiosyncracies that ace truly Catholic: weekly bingo games, indulgences for every holy act, and those funny looking habits like the ones in "The Flying Nun." 
Overall, "Growing Up Catholic" succeeds in illustrating the humorous side ofan otherwise serious religion. The book gets a rather long in reading from cover to cover, but it is amusing to flip through and skim. 
"Birdy" hampered by time 
Mark Melchoir 
Book review 


C 
oincidenta.l with the release of the movie "Birdy," is are­issuance ofthe novel by William Wharton which bears the same title. When the novel appeared in 1978, Wharton was praised as a writer of "extraordinary originality." Now, 
seven years later, we must ask if 
Birdy is, in review, as satisfying on 
the printed page as it once was. 
"Birdy" aspires to lofty heights that can only be reached in the most unself-conscious efforts. As the title character (a boy growing up in Philadelphia in the early twen­tieth century) wills himself to fly, so too does the novel attempt to tran­
scend the bounds ofconventional 
fiction. 
Neither ace completely success­ful in that neither cannot free them­selves from the conventions they try to escape. Both the writer and the character ace too aware ofwhat they ace trying to free themselves from. 
bounded by the limits oftime and space: only in dreams is he able to float in the air, the flights ofhis consciousness in which he jumps 
from water towers and higher 
ground end in injury. 
Wharton is hampered and hounded by time as well; the time elapsed since original publication 
has grounded the novelty ofthe book's first appearance by its similarities to other off-beat titles. What ace left for Birdy and Wharton ace inspired though fleeting moments. 

The story of"Birdy" is about two friends who meet as kids and join together to collect and "home" pigeons. The accounts oftheir adventures ace light and often hilarious. Unfortunately, these passages ace intecrupted--though they ace regarded within the structure ofthe novel as flashbacks­-by the burdening weight of the main plot which is set in a mental 
hospital. Bicdy is introduced as catatonic and the only responses that he gives 
throughout the novel ace bird-like gesticulations. His friend AI has 
come to jar Birdy back to reality 
and secure his release. 
The novel is then, AI's monologue on friendship, on the wac (AI and Birdy ace both shell­shocked survivors ofWorld Wac I) and orr families, interspersed with Bicdy's inner thoughts on the metaphysical nature offlight and being and not being a bitd. 
Much of"Bitdy" is unsatisfying 
today. Wharton's metaphysics owe 
a great deal to Richard Bach and 
"Jonathan Uvingstone Seagull." The 
hospital scenes also recall other 
staple novels and movies ofthe 
Seventies culture, and the passages 
ace quite devasting. There is little that is new but Wharton does manage to build a story ofa memorable friendship. 


A glittering iced world of fantasy 
Spedal to The Observer 
I 
nternationally-acclaimed skating stars, exquisite costuming and fascinating special effects highlight a glittering world offantasy in Ice Capades' newest family revue, "Dream World" opening Wednes­day, March 27 at the ACC with eight performances through Sunday, March 31. 
Headlining the impressive cast is World Champion and Olympic Bronze Medalist Charlie Tickner who fascinates viewers with his The romantic team ofChris Hac­

rison and Usa Carey give an 

electrifying example ofhow they 
became the U.S. Professional Cham­
pions. U.S. National Silver Medalist, 
Barbie Smith enters the realm of 
outerspace with her expert 

portrayal ofsuper-sleuth "Jane 
Blonde" in Ice Capades' newest 
spy-spoof. 

World Professional Champion Robert Wagenhoffer shows little regard for danger as he flawlessly executes breathtaking leaps and and Terry Pagano show the same 

courage as they twist and twirl 
through their risky routine. 
Making her debut with Ice 
Capades this year is three-time 
Canadian National Champion, Kay 
Thomson, who spackles as she spins 
across the ice. 
The exciting team ofTed Masdea 
and Brian Wright perform their 
special act, "Double Visions;" and 
the lovely soloist, Maria Causey, 
creates an aura offantasy skating in 
the midst ofa dreamy fog. 
New and innovative lighting is 
used in this year's elaborate produc­
tions which move from the land of 
the gypsies in "Dancing Ribbons" to 
the magical land ofsmurtii in "The Smurfthat Learns to Fly." 
A dramatic aerial ballet offlying bicycles and butterfles is high­lighted in "Visions" and a great spy-spoof from the depths ofouter­space is introduced in "For Your Ice Only." 
"Six Sexy Strangers???" come to life under special black lighting and sway skillfully around the ice ... all sixteen feet ofthem! For more fun, 
there is the revelry ofveteran ice­
downs Biddy and Baddy, the 
perilous stunts ofSteve Nelson and 
the romantic parodies of Dave 'n' 
Joey. 
Finally, the greatest precision 
skaters in the galaxy synchronize 
their skating in "Star Time" where 
the entice cast joins them in an 
elegant and sophicated finale. 

r--~-­
Tuesday, March 26, 1985 -page 8 -page 9 
KISS graced the ACC with hard rock music 

Patti Tripathi 
Concert review 
W
hile most students were en· joying their last night at home . . . or starting their long trip back from the sunny south, the notorious KISS graced the campus with their presence. Maybe "graced"is not the word. The ACC was filled with 5,541 
. fans last Saturday night in anticipa· tion ofthe hard rock music. Perhaps since the average age ofthe audi· ence was young, it provided the necessary tolerance for the ampli· tude ofthe performance last Satur· day night. 
The overall impression ofthe concert was enhanced by the opening act, the group WASP. The stage, festooned with two large skeleton heads, typified the rest of the show. The lead singer's words, "We are your parent's worse 
Photos by Johannes Hacker 


nightmares " set the tone for the 
rest ofthe performance . 
KISS composed ofPaul Stanley, lead singer; Gene Simmons, rhythm guitarist and singer; Eric Carr, drummer; and Bruce Kulich, base guitarist; have been performing for almost 13 years. Eric Carr and Bruce Kulick, the newest members, joined the group in 1981 and in 1984 respectively. 
Some oftheir music which has done well in the market includes "Beth," "Black Diamond," "lick it up," and "Heavens on Fire." 
KISS has performed in Europe, Canada, and America. Their last performance after six months of touring will be on March 29th. The group has made some changes since their original act. No longer do they paint their.faces which once used to be one oftheir trademarks. "It was time for a change," said their 
manager. 
t i ~ 
''. 
~· 

[ 
t 
l l 
Sports Briefs 
The ND/SMC Sailing Clubwill hold practice for this weekend's freshman icebreaker regatta today and Thursday from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. All first-year sailors, especially crew, are invited to attend. · Tbe Observer 
A scuba-diving class Is being sponsored by NVA. Anyone who is interested in this six-week course should attend a meeting today at 6:30p.m. in room 218 of the Rockne Memorial Building. -Tbe Observer 
NVA spring sports captains must attend 
meetings this week. Mens' softball team captains will meet tomorrow at 4:30p.m., women's softball captains at 5 p.m. and floor hockey captains at '5:15p.m. Women's soccer team captains will meet Thursday at 4:30 p.m., open soccer captains at 5 p.m. and baseball captains at 5:15p.m. All meetings will be held in the football auditorium at the ACC. -Tbe Obseroer 
The ND Women's Soccer Club will be 
meeting for practice today and Thursday at 4:30p.m. and tomorrow and Friday at 4 p.m. on Stepan Field. -Tbe Observer 
An Tostal innertube waterpolosignupswill 
be held on Thursday at 7 p.m. in the O'Shaughnessy Hall lobby. An 
entry fee of S7 will be charged for the 64-team tournament, which 
begins on Tuesday. Teams must consist ofat least seven players, two 
of whom must be women. No more than two varsity swimmers or 
water polo club members may be on one team. -Tbe Obseroer 
Bookstore Basketball team captains 
must attend a mandatory meeting on Sunday from 1:15 p.m. to 2:30 
p.m. in the Ubrary Auditorium. Tournament action kicks off on April 9 with the Hall of Fame game. -Tbe Observer 
Professional wrestling Is coming to Stepan Cen­ter. The MS Drive presents World Wrestling Federation "Wrestlemania," a closed-circuit broadcast live from Madison Square Garden on Sunday at 1 p.m. Tickets are on sale now at the Gate 10 ticket office at the ACC and at Rock du Lac. All proceeds go to Multiple Sclerosis. -Tbe Observer 
Dancin' Irish tryouts are coming up. An organiza­tional meeting for anyone interested in trying out will be held on Monday at 7 p.m. in the Chautaqua Ballroom. For more information, call Debbie at 283-3552 or Usa at 283-2697.-Tbe Observer 
Several top amateur wrestlers from me 
United States andJapan will participate in an international challenge match on Thursday, April 4, at 7 p.m. in the ACC. Some OlympiJuu and NCAA champions will compete, including Irish assistant coach John Azevedo, the NCAA 57 kg. champ. Tickets are available now at 
the Gate 10 ticket office of the ACC at S5 for adults and S3 for stu­dents 18 and under. -Tbe Observer 
An interhalllacrosse league 1s being formed by NVA. The deadline for entries is Monday, April 8. For more infor­mation, call the NVA office at 239-6100. -Tbe Observer 
lnterhall baseball umpires are being sought by NVA. Anyone who Is interested may fill out an application at the NVA office. -Tbe Observer 

Tuesday, March 26, 1985-page 10 
Villanova, Memphis St. happy to have made NCAA Final Four field 

Wildcats 
•
receive warm welcome back 
Associated Press 
VIllANOVA, Pa. -The Villanova Wildcats, bleary-eyed from an early­morning pep rally welcoming them home from the NCAA Southeast Regional, began preparing yesterday to meet Memphis State this weekend in the Final Four. 
"Actually, I got to bed pretty late, because of my friends and the celebrating," said senior center Ed Pinckney, who had nine points and seven rebounds in Villanova's 56-44 
victory over North Carolina in the Southeast regional final in Birming­ham, Ala., Sunday. 
Seniors Pinckney, forward Dwayne McClain and play-making guard Gary McLain are the nucleus ofthe team. The three made a pact in their freshman year that they would reach the Final Four. 
"When you realize you might be playing the last game ofyour college career, you play a little bit harder and try to assert yourself more," Pinckney said. "You don't want to make any mistakes at all." 
The Wildcats arrived at the Main 
Une campus about 1 a.m. to find 
more than 5,000 people, mostly stu­
dents, jammed into the Villanova 
Field House, which was hung with 
banners. 
"It was something, with all the people here together," Pinckney said moments before Coach Rollie Massimino herded his players into a meeting. "You look out into the crowd and see your friends there, going crazy. It was a good feeling." 
Massimino, who has guided his team past Dayton on Dayton's floor, second-ranked Michigan, Maryland and Dean Smith's Tarheels so far in the tournament, smiled when he recalled the scene at the Field House. 
"It was just great-a very, very sat­Isfying moment," said Massimino, 50, Villanova's coach for 12 seasons. 
"It was a mob scene. There were 5,000 people, at least, in this gym that only seats 3,200. The student body here Is just great." 

API'boto 
Villanova's seniorpointguard Gary McLain, front, joinsfellow senior Ed Pinkney in a celef»'ation of tbe Wildcats' victory over North Carolina, which put Villanova in tbe NCAA's Final Four. When they returned to Pennsylvania early Monday morning, tbe Wildcats were greeted bya rally on tbe school's campus. Villanova won'thave long to celef»'ate, however, as itfaces Memphis State on Saturday in tbe tournament semifinals. 
Tigers plan to work on basics 
AModated Press 

MEMPHIS, Tenn. -Dana Kirk thinks that by the time teams reach the NCAA's Final Four, it's pretty much a matter ofwho has a good day that decides victory. 
"I've always said that's what tour­naments are all about. Whoever has hot hands can prevail," the Memphis State basketball coach said· yester­day. 
Kirk's Tigers, ranked fifth during 
the regular season, face Villanova in 
the NCAA semifinals Saturday. 
As his team began workouts to prepare for that contest, Kirk said the squad would work on basics for several days before he decides on a game plan for the Wildcats. 
"We'll review and go with the things we've been doing to give us our 31 wins. We're not going to completely get away from anyth­ing," he said. 
Kirk said his Tigers played well against Oklahoma to get to the semi­finals, "and I certainly don't want to change any ofthat." 
Memphis State defeated Okla­
homa 63-61 Saturday to win the 
Midwest Regional title. 

Keith Lee, the 6-foot-10 senior 
forward who holds Memphis State's 
all-time scoring and rebounding 
records, has gotten into foul trouble 
in the past four tournament games, 
spending a total of61 minuteson the 
bench. 

But Kirk said he's not worried 
about a repeat of(hat situation. 

"I won't anticipate anybody get­ting into. foul trouble. That's not something we look for." 
Many NCAA observers say Geor­getown will be the team to beat for the championship, but Kirk said he's not worried about Georgetown just yet."I want to play Villanova," he said. 
Vincent Askew, a 6-5 freshman guard who has started for Memphis State this year, said he would like to face Georgetown, however, in the NCAA finals. 
"That's the one I'm really looking forward to," Askew said. "You can't hold anything against Villanova be­cause they're a good ball club. Ifthey weren't, they wouldn't be in the Final Four. 
The Obsen•er Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafonune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Obsen1er Saint Mary's office. located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts dassifieds from 12:50 p.m. until 3 p.m .. Mon· day though Friday. Deadline for next·day dassilieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five charac­
Classifieds 
ters r dav. 

FOUND: CROSS PEN AND PENCIL IN HISTORY TEACHER, FORMER BOB & RON-THANX 4 LUGGING JUR Larry, Tad, and Phil: Where -e you ROOM 124 NIEULAND SCIENCE BLDG. TRAVEL AGENT, PLANNING SUMMER MAKEUP BAGS ACROSS yesterday at 3:25? 
f NOTICES TICKETS

CALL TIM 2543 TO IDENTIFY. IN EUROPE. SEEKS PERSON OR PER· CAMPUS.J&T 
SONS WITH SIMILAR PLANS AS PITI CLUB E.AITER SUI IIONUPI: Loet: Mwoon Samaonite overnigh1 b.g TRAVELING COMPANION/S. CALL DIMPLES-I MISS YOU.PLEASE COME THURSDAY, II P.ll. LAFORTUNE conl8lning BOOKS and peraonal items. JACK YOUNG: 616-683-0547, Ex. 36. TO TEXAS-IRVING UTTLE THEATER. $45 ROUND TRIP, Loet 3/16 betwHn NO and SMC. HELP I I I ONLY CHILD NEEDS $30 ONE WAY. FIRIT COllE, FIRIT 
TYPING CALL CHRII 234-&Wl' REWARD offered. no questions. Pieue SR FORMAL TICKET NEEDED-IF 7,8EVENI, GRAD TIX. If I don'1 get 'em, TAM THANX FOR THE BEST BREAK SERVED. QUEinONI? CALL A.J. AT cal Barb at 283-3846. YOU'RE WlUING TO SELL YOURS they won't spoil me anymore. If you ahlll'e EVER!HL YWD BCH WIU NEVER BE 1157. 
TYPING AVAJLA8LE 
FOR FUU PRICBI, CAU 232'<!659 OR your tix, I'N ohiiJ'e what I have. CALL THE SAME 217-4082 
LOST a ladles gold aeiko wa1ch lll'OUnd 232·5432. KAREN 2n-6740. 
YOU MAY HAVE MillED IT

and aboul main or south quad about 2 HIRATRICK 
LAST IEIIEITER

wee1<a before apr;ng break-·heapa and WANTED: A place to live next year I If you ''''''''''''''''''''''"'''""'''noo•••••••• •••••• WOIIDPROCEIIINO 
NO MORE EXCUIEI

bunches of aentimenl8l value Ia attached 11re In need olan extra man for a houae, or Wiah HAPPY 8-DAY to ASTRID 
ITIBACK

277~5 to i1~ call Heather a1 3763 If you have yet to find an OC home. call Ray at NAVARRO 1269-a BP girt with apartding BEWARE
have found It--thanks I 2059. spirit! Love, Lynoey. 
THE BEAUX ARTIIIALL
PERSONALS 

APRIL 12,1:30 IIRI. COkER, 2»-7001. 
EXPERT TYPING IEitVICE. CALL 

DIANE. THE BABY IN THE FAMILY IS FI­BETHEREI NALLY 20!! BUT DON'T WORRY, WE 

WON'T TEU ANY OF THE LOCAL
WANTED FOR SALE 
OAR HOUlE: COLD BEER & UQUOR, BARSI HAPPY BIRTHDAY 01, AU OUR ITAUAN CLUB NEWICARRY OUT 'nL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., 

LOVE, CINDY. KARlE AND ANNE. The ND/SMC ITALIAN CLUB wiN beONE BLOCK lOUTH OF HOUDAY INN.
SONY atdec:k re<:iaver;AKAI aemi-au1o meeting thia Thuraday a1 6:30 In the Ulble;SONY 60Wspkrs;$299/bea1 of· Lafortune Unle Th•tre. Elections of nextNEED BICYCLE FOR APRIL-MAY, 
fer.Calt 1932 Jill TABOR CORE COURSE year'• olflcera 11re acheduled and del8lla Word Pr.,.,_ng -Cal Andrea at 283­
WANT TO RENT OR BUY, MUST IN NANCY WOLTMAN IS 21 TODAY. 

Player of the week: olll8llan Cuhure Week wil be diacuaaed.
3880 lrom 11:00 am· 11 :00 pm. 
GOOD SHAPE SEAN 2n-3853 HAPPY BIRTHDAY F'ROM YOUR TWO

11178 Pontillc: Grand LeMana. Alr­Lonnie Ertdna
BEST FRIENDS. 

TYPING 2n-8534 al1.-5:30 condtioned, No ruat, One owner. good Al..lnvlteclto 1 trw llhowtng eondtlon. $2800.282-1605. ol the~-......ftlm
Relal!v• traveling lrom El ....,.... to 

cart Putnam: "HIOHNOON" -beloved prealdent So, I need many 
Ia " True You Cln Buy Jeepa for $44 YO HO. YO HO,I1'e the pirate's life for mel Once you go black­........ Gary Cooper
COMMENCEMENT tickata. Call 3811 01 

through tha U.S. governmen1? Gel 1hil You never go back. 
-1 -~acuMion on the f-1odly! Cal 1-312·7·2-1142 U1. ftlm
you may Hnd I guerillllt your door.

LOST/FOUND I ...,
7316. H-yBirthday lue Du-1 Love, You -e 1 great co-pilo1 and navigator, Prof. Wlllalll Krier 
HAVE A FRIEND WHO WANTS TO SEE FOR SALE:1880 PlYMOUTH loolcing f~d 10 more of the same at Trixie lrom Houaton Dept. ol Enal8h LOST: NOTRE DAME HAT IN LOIIBY Of N.D? RIDERS NEEDED FROM BUF· CHAMP,TW1N 5nCK, AM/FM STEREO, ~. -I'IMdly ...-ch27-7:00PII SOUTH DINING HALL. CALL TIM 2543 FALO OR ROCH. NY TO NO THIS RUNS WEll ASKING $800, BUT WIU Have 1 happy cllyl P.S. You forgot your champagne .._.... IF YOU HAVE IT. THUR. 3128 RETN. 3131 -RICI< 4314 NEGOTIATE. CALL JEFF 38511. 
The Observer Tuesday, March 26, I985-page II 
Box Score 
March 16, 1985 North Carolina 60, Notre Dame 58 Notre Dame (58) 
M FG-A FT-A R F p Royal 38 1-3 6-10 5 0 8 Price 25 3-5 3-4 2 3 9 Kempton 20 1-3 2-2 4 3 4 Rivers 37 8-14 1-4 0 4 17 Hicks 30 3-9 2-2 0 1 8 Duff 3 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 Dolan 20 2-2 0-2 6 4 4 
Barlow 27 4-9 0-2 3 3 8 200 22-45 14-26 20 18 58 
FG Pet. -.489. FT Pet. -.538. Team rebounds -3. Turnovers -9. Assists -1o (Hicks 4). Technicals-none. 
North Carolina (60) M FG-A FT-A R F p Wolf 38 3-7 0-0 6 4 6

. 
Popson 17 4-6 0-0 2 1 8 Daugherty 31 6-8 6-6 12 4 18 Peterson 36 3-5 1-3 2 1 7 Smith,K. 40 6-11 0-2 2 3 12 Smith, A. 4 0-2 0-0 0 0 0 Hunter 8 1-3 0-0 1 0 2 Martin 26 3-5 1-1 5 5 7 200 26-47 8-12 30 18 60 
FG Pet. -.553. FT Pet. -.667. Team rebounds-0. Turnovers-14. Assists-11 (K. Smith 5). Technicals-none. 
Halftime -Notre Dame 35, North Carolina 
35. Officials -nm Higgins (Big East). Woody Mayfield (Big Eight). Rich Ballesteros (Pacific Ten). A-10,480. 
SpedaiStudentand Youth Fares to 

SCANDINAVIA On Scheduled Airlines! The inexpensive way to get to Scandinavia and other destinations in Europe and around the world toof 
For Information Call: 

WHOLE WORLDTRAVEL Specialists in youth and student travel for more than a decade. 
17 E. 45th St., New York, NY 10017 
(212) 986-9470 


For the look of now, designer stylecuts for today's men and women. 
This week, only $10-$12 

OUR FATHERS MUSTACHE 
University Park Mall Family Hairstyling (across from the cinema) 277-3770 
Georgetown, St. John's start preparations for 3rd meeting 
Hoyas familiar to other Final Four teams. 
Asllodated Press 
WASHINGTON Top-ranked Georgetown is a familiar and beatable foe to the three teams waiting to ambush the favored defending champions at next weekend's NCAA final Four in Lexi­ngton, Ky. 
St. John's, Villanova and Memphis State have handed Georgetown six of its 1 5 defeats in the last three years. 
Georgetown is 90-15 overall since the start of the 1982-83 season, and during that span it is 4-2 against Villanova, 4-3 against St. John's and 0-1 against Memphis State. 
The Hoyas have won 47 of their 
last 50 games, with two of those 
losses to St. John's -the team they 
must beat in Saturday's semifinals if 
they are to advance to the champi­
onship game for the third time in 
four years. 
"They are not an unknown quan­tity," said St. John's Coach Lou Car­nesecca. "We got notes, reports, films and a very vivid image ofthem. We probably know them better than anyone else. We could probably run their offense better than ours." 
No. 3 St. John's has won three of 
seven games against the Hoyas since Chris Mullin established himself as a Wildcats, who must beat No. 5 

star in his sophomore year. Memphis State in Saturday's other 
This season, with Mullin scoring semifinal before they can think 
his customary 20 points, Walter about Georgetown. 
Berry adding 14 and Willie Glass 13, With Ewing in the lineup, Vii­
St. John's ended Georgetown's 27-lanova's big men -6-9 Ed Pinckney, 
game winning streak by edging the 6-7 Harold Pressley and 6-5 Dwayne 
Hoyas in Landover, Md., 66-65. McClain -have experienced the 
Georgetown avenged the defeat, worst shooting nights of their 
beating St.John's twice, by 16 points careers. . 
and 12 points in NewYork, the latter ~onversely, on the rughts when 
in the final of the Big East Confer-Ewmg has been forced to the bench 
ence Tournament. · because of fouls, the Wildcats have 
The second and third games roared to victory. proved that Mullin alone cannot "We've been beating up on each carry the Redmen past Georgetown. other all year long," said Villanova's 
In the second game, Mullin out-Harold Jensen, who came off the scored the Hoyas' star center Patrick bench to piay a key role with 1 0 Ewing 21 to 20 points. But in the second-half points in the Southeast· matchup of small forwards, Reggie Regional championship game. "It'll Williams had 25 points while Glass be fun to keep doing it." mustered just three for the Redmen. This season, with Ewing dominat­
ing play, Georgetown has won bothIn their most recent meeting, the meetings, 52-50 in overtime atentire starting lineup for Geor­home, and 57-50 in Philadelphia.
getown scored in double figures, 

more than offsetting Mullin's 25 Victories by Georgetown and points. Glass again was no factor, Memphis State in the semifinals scoring just six points. Berry had 14, would result in the second meeting eight in the closing minutes of a of center Ewing and senior forward 
game long since decided. Keith Lee. 
The towering presence of the 7-In their one previous meeting, in 
foot Ewing is never more in the second round of the NCAA 
evidence than against Coach Rollie Tournament in 1983, Lee and the 
Massimino's unranked Villanova Tigers were 66-5 7 victors. 
Carnesecca gets award; has more on mind 
Asllodated Press 
NEW YORK-St. John's basketball coach Lou Carnesecca was pre­sented with the Kodak National Invi­tation Tournament Man of the Year Award yesterday, but he had bigger things on his mind than the NIT. 
St. John's is headed for the NCAA Final Four where the third-ranked Redmen will play No. 1 Georgetown Saturday in the tournament semi­finals. The game will mark the fourth meeting between the teams this season. 
"We know them quite well. 
They're a great team," said Car­
nesecca. 

Georgetown, the Big East Confer-last two (Georgetown) games." ence tournament winner, holds a The Redmen, 31-3, gained the 2-1 lead this season over St. John's, Final Four by beating North Carolina the regular-season Big East cham-State 69-60 Sunday for the West pion. The Redmen won the first Regional title. It marked the first meeting 66-65, but the Hoyas time since 1952 that St. John's made routed them the past two meetings the Final Four -advancing to the final 85-69 and 92-80. where it lost to Kansas. St.John's also 
"Maybe we concentrated too becamethefirstNewYorkCityteam much on (7-foot All-America to make it since New York Univer­Patrick) Ewing," said Carnesecca, in sity in 1960. his 17th season as Redmen coach. "It was a tough day," Carnesecca 
"He's going to get his anyway. ffyou said ofthe N.C. State game. "Itwasso concentrate too much on the big close. Joe Lapchick ( Carnesecca's fella, the other guys will chopyou up predecessor) always told me, 'The -Michael Jackson, (Ralph) Dalton, idea is to survive.' But you always (Reggie) Williams... want more. They always said Walter 
"We've got to stop beating our-Alston (when he as the Brooklyn selves. That's what happened in the Dodgers' manager) wasn't a (World 
r-------------------------, Series) winner. But if you get there 

Hey You! 

SENIOR BAR,the fun nest bar on campus, is now accepting applications for 1985-86 managerial positions. 
Have you got what it takes?? 


Don't miss this once-in-a-lifetime pportunity for FAME, FORTUNE, and FUNII 
Pick up and return applications at the Student Activities Office in Lafortune by Fri., March 29 at 5:00pm. 
P.S. If'II look great on your resume!! 


enough times, you're going to win." 
St. John's has the top scorer in the tournament so far in All-America Chris Mullin, who has totaled 102 points in four games. A big part of Mullin's game is his passing ability, which the Hoyas virtually shut down in their final meeting. 
Gold defeats Gunslingers 
DENVER -Quarterback Vince Evans scrambled five yards for a touchdown and passed for another as the Denver Gold capitalized on San Antonio turnovers to beat the Gunslingers 16-2 last night in United States Football League action. 
Only 13,901 fans -a record-lowat­tendance for the franchise -wit­nessed the game in ideal weather conditions. 
A second-quarter fumble by San Antonio quarterback Whit Taylor, making his first start of the season, set up the game's first score. Taylor fumbled the snap from center and Denver linebacker Jol>n Nevens recovered at the Gunslinger 23-yard line. The Gold scored five plays later on Evans' scrambling run up the middle. His 20-yard screen pass to running back Bill Johnson was the key play on the drive. Brian Speel­man's extra-point attempt was 
blocked. 
The Observer Tuesday, March 26, 1985-page 12 

Tim Kempton tries to block a Brad Daugherty shot as North Caroltna's]oe Wolf looks on in second round NCAA Tournament action in the ACC. The Irish lost to the Tar Heels, , but Notre Damefigures to come back strong nextseason.jeffBlumb looks at the team's progress in his column on page 16. 

Football 
continuedfrompage 16 
develop depth at the fullback, quar­
terback and punter spots, and we 
need to find a new long snapper. 
Defensively, we've got people like 
Mike Gann and Joe Johnson to 
replace, and we're looking to 
develop depth at the linebacker 
spots." 
In addition to the graduating 
seniors, some other familiar faces 
were missing from yesterday's 
opening practice. Among these 
were tailback Allen Pinkett 
(separated shoulder) and lineback­
ers Mike Kovaleski (broken col­
larbone) and Rick DiBernardo 
(wrist injury), all of whom will sit 
out the entire spring season recover­
Ing from their injuries. 
Joining these three on the injured 

list was quarterback Steve Beuer­
lein, who is nursing an ailing 
shoulder. Beuerlein, who also could 
challenge holdovers Hal Von Wyl 
and Dan Sorensen for the punting 
job, definitely will be out for this 
week's practices and may be out 
even longer. Also out of action yes­
terday were free safeties Hiawatha Francisco and Dave McGuffey, cen­ter Jim Baugus and defensive tackle Tony Roos. 
As far as filling the holes, the work 
began yesterday. On the offensive 
line, quick tackle Ron Plantz will get 
a shot at the starting center spot, 
while Tom Doerger and jay Under­
wood will battle for the quick tackle 
spot and John Askin and Shawn Hef­
fern will work at the strong guard 
position. Veterans Tim Scannell and 
Mike Perrino will remain at their 
starting positions, quick guard and 
strong tackle, respectively. 
The tight end spot figures to be 

Notre Dame's biggest problem this 
spring. With the loss of Bavaro and 
Ricky Gray, Faust hopes that Joel 
Williams, converted defensive 
tackle Tom Rehder or Todd Lezon 
will rise to the occasion. Dan Tanczos, who is comingoffknee sur­gery, also could challenge at the po­sition. 
At fullback, sophomore-to-be Frank Starns is the favorite to take over the starting spot. Tom Monahan and Pernell Taylor will compete with Starns at that position, while Alonzo Jefferson, Lester Flemons and Ray Carter will share time at tailback: in Pinkett's absence. 
Beuerlein's shoulder problems have increased the need for depth at the quarterback position, a weak­ness on last year's team. Ron Hud­son, offensive coordinator last season, therefore will concentrate exclusively on the development of sophomores-to-be Terry Andrysiak, Tom Byrne, and Pat Pesavento at quarterback. 
The receiver corps is Notre Dame's most solid area on offense, with Milt Jackson, Tim Brown, 

Irish baseball team opens season with 4-7 mark on Texas road trip 
By KEVIN HERBERT 
Sports Writer 
Playing against seasoned teams is 
tough enough, but when a squad has 
to open its season against teams with 
1 5 or more games under their belts, 
the task becomes all the more diffi­
cult. 
The Notre Dame men's baseball 
team found this out as it travelled 
south to take on the likes of Hous­
ton, Texas Christian and Texas Lu­
theran. The Irish also squared off 
against Schreiner College, St. Ed­
ward's College, Trinity College and 
St. Mary's University over break. 
The Irish opened the season 
against the University of Houston in 
a game nationally televised from 
Cougar Stadium by ESPN. Notre 
Dame's starting pitcher, Buster 
Lopes, never got into the groove as 
he yielded four hits, five walks and seven runs before being pulled in the second inning. 
The Irish never recovered from their poor start. John Bowen relieved Lopes in the second, but he, too, was lambasted by the Cougars, yielding seven hits and four earned runs in his four innings ofwork. 
Jason Schomer completed the pitching duties for the Irish, giving up two walks, three hits and three earned runs in his two innings of work. 
On the bright side for Notre Dame, Jack Moran and Mike Trudeau sparked the hitting attack. The two combined for a total offour hits and one RBI. 
After its 14-4 defeat at the hands of Houston, Notre Dame proceeded to play a doubleheader the next day, first squaringoffagainst Texas Chris­tian and then taking on St. Mary's in the St"Cond ~e. 

Reggie Ward, Alvin Miller, Pat-------------­
Cusack and Tony Eason all return­ing. "Offensively, we want to im­prove fundamentally," says Faust. "Our goal is to become a better of­fensive unit, both on the ground and in the air.last year we accomplished that by the end ofthe season, but we didn't have that in the beginning of the year. In some games you're going to be stopped one way or the other, so you've got to stress both the passing and running games." 
Defensively, Greg Dingens will 
battle Jeff Kunz for Gann's spot, 
while Mike Griffin and Wally Kleine 
will try to hold offEric Dorsey, Mike 
Kiernan and Byron Spruell to keep 
their starting jobs on the defensive 
front. 
The linebacker situation appears stable, with all four starters return­ing and several experienced reserves on hand as well. Mike Larkin will probably be moved to the outside linebacker spot, where Robert Banks and Cedric Figaro are on hand in addition to the injure'd DiBernardo. At the inside positions, the Irish have Tony Furjanic, Ron 
Wiessenhofer and John McCabe 
healthy, with Kovaleski on the 
sidelines. 
In the secondary, Pat Ballage may 
be moved to the vacated strong 
safety spot, with Troy Wilson, Mike 
Haywood, Macv Spence and Brandy 
Wells working at cornerback. At free 
safety, the Irish have Steve Lawrence 
and Francisco returning, as well as 
veteranJames Bobb. 
"One thing that we want to con­centrate on defensively is stopping the option," Faust says. "That's something that was a big problem for us last year. But now we're a year older and we've had more experi­ence against the option. We want to play aggressively on defense; aggres­siveness forces turnovers and gives the offense better field position." 
IRISH ITEMS -Practices this week will be today, tomorrow and Friday, with the first spring scrimmage slated for Saturday. . . Notre Dame's 20-session spring practice schedule closes with the Blue-Gold game on Saturday, April 27. 
THE EARLY.&BIRD... --~/  
Classes starting this week  
MCAT Clll DlyS Evtfti"IS I Wttkttlds 1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-4135  


Against TCU, the Irish did not play very well, losing by a score of 9-3. Joe Dobosh went almost the entire distance for the Irish, yielding 1 1 hits in six innings of work. But despite giving up 1 1 hits, Dobosh allowed only four earned runs to cross the plate. 
Offensively for Notre Dame, Ken Shields went two-for-three while Tom Guilfoile collected two RBI's. 
In the second end of the twinbill, the Irish earned their first victory of the season with a 9-1 win over St. Mary's. Mark Watzke got the victory as Rich Vanthournout collected three hits and three RBI's. 
The following day Notre Dame lost to St. Edward's, 9-6. Mike Trudeau and l\1ike Woodcock notched two hits apiece for the Irish, while David Clark and Ken Soos col­lected two RBI's each. 
The Irish played a doubleheader the next day, March 20, winning one and losing one. The win came against Schreiner College. Buster Lopes obtained the victory in an im­pressive outing. Lopes went the dis­tance, yielding only three runs in his nine innings ofwork. Offensively for Notre Dame, Jack Moran, Tom Shields and Mike McNeill each col­lected two hits in the 8-3 Notre Dame triumph. 
That day's loss came at the hands of St. Ed's, Notre Dame's second to the Texas school in two days. Dan Sacchini received the loss in the 3-2 decision. Tom Shields was the bright spot for the Irish offense, gathering three ofNotre Dame's four hits. 
On the 21st, Notre Dame got its game together, sweeping a doubleheader from Trinity College, 8-3 and 8-6. Steve Powell and Paul Mauk picked up the victories for the Irish. Offensively for Notre Dame, 
Jack Moran was on fire, collecting six hits in the twinbill. 
. The following day, however, 
Notre Dame's good fortune ended as 
the Irish were defeated by St. Mary's, 
7-5, in a rematch. Notre Dame led, 
5-3, heading into the last inning of 
play, but this was not enough as St. 
Mary's came up with four runs in its 
final at-bat. Moran continued his 
good hitting with two singles. Clark 
also added two hits and an RBI in the 
losing cause. 

In their final two games over 
spring break, the Irish faced Texas 
Lutheran, a team which Notre Dame 
head coach Larry Gallo called "the 
best team we faced next tu Hous­
ton." 

The Irish lost both games to Lu­
theran, being outgunned 13-7 and 
14-0. Clark shelled a two-run home 
run in the first game, while Trudeau 
added three hits. Moran collected 
two safeties in the second. 

Gallo had mixed feelings on his 
team's performance over the 11­
game road trip. 

"We were plagued by a lack of 
timely hitting," he said. "We got 
baserunners, which is something to 
be happy about, but we simply 
lacked the timely hits to score the 
runs. 

"We had a couple ofmental errors 
which really hurt us. Hopefully 
these mistakes will be rectified with 
game experience. 

"I was pleased with the hitting of 
Jack Moran and Mike Trudeau," con­
tinued the Irish coach. "Mike hit the 
ball consistently harder than any 
other college player that I have ever 
seen at Notre Dame." 

Notre Dame, now with a record of 4-7, face more stiff competition in the nextweek, when it plays Purdue, Northwestern and Indiana. With 11 
games under their belt and knowing that they are back in Indiana, the Irish will look to improve their record in the upcoming games. 
WORRIES? QUESTIONS? CONCERNS? 
COUNSELINE is an anonymous service with tapes on many subjects. Call and ask for tapes in your area of concern. 
239-7793 
Mon-Thurs 4-12 Fr14-8 
SENIORS 
Remember to make 
GRADUATION PLANS 
with parents for Commencement Weekend May17-19th 
FBI, MAY 17·Senior Class Cocktail Dance -ACC North Dome 
tickets requited SAT, MAY 18·DinnerIACC North Dome SUN, MAY 19·Brunch 
No./So. Dining Halls 

Order form has been sent to parents. Must be returned to CCE by April23rd 
The Observer 
Tuesday, March 26, 1985-page 13 

2.12-0312 277-1619 
Hair m us! be Shampooed day of cut. We are onir minutes from campus 


~OOOOOIIIIIIIOOOIOOIIIIIIOIOIIIIIIOIIOIIIIOIIIIIIIIOIIOIOIIIIIIIOUIOOIIOIIIOOIOIOOIOI-OIIH'! 
Notre Dame Avenue Apartments 
Apartments availablefor Summer Months 
Special Rates CaD office 3pm-6pm daily 
1............................-...~..~.'!-.:!.~.!?...............................,~J 

LaFortune Basement (below the Deli) 
The NOT-shirt Shop has a new name and a new logo to reflect the new way the shop is now running. Imprinted sportswear at a fair price has always been our goal-quality has a I ways come before profit. We have had many pleased customers, but now we are ready to grow. 
Our prices have dropped even lower thanks to reduced costs from our suppliers. The Undergound has undercut every price we could find in the Midwest. We have expanded our merchandise to include every style of sportswear in a wide variety of colors. We want, quite simply, to become the exclusive supplier of imprinted sportswear for the NO Community. 
We want your business, and we promise to beat any quote you can find. So if your dorm, section, club, team, or group want imprinted sportswear, give us a call or stop by-we're open MWF 2:30-4:30 and TI 3:30-5:30 
This is your store, so use it and let us help you get the highest quality at the lowest price. 


T-SHIRTS • PULLOVERS 
General Manager

POLO SHIRTS • SWEATERS SWEATSHIRTS • MUCH MORE The Underground 
Women's tennis team fights its way to 5-1 mark at Florida tournament 
By MARlY BURNS 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis 
team put the "fighting" back into 
Fighting Irish over the spring 
holiday, as it showed some true 
mettle against six strong teams at the 
Florida Southern tournament. 
Overall the Irish finished 5-1, good for second-place behind Southern Illinois-Edwardsville, which incidentally fin).shed second in the nation in NCAA Division II tennis las.t year, one notch ahead of Notre Dame. 
Although Notre Dame was 
knocked out in its match with SIU­
Edwardsville, the Irish won convinc­
ingly against Cal Poly-Pomona, 
Stetson, Florida Southern, Stephen F. 
Austin State, and Auburn, a Division I 
team. The victories raised the Irish 
record to 8-1 on the season. 
Needless to say, Irish coach 
Sharon Petro was pleased with her 
team's performance. 
"We played very well with the ex­ception of the SIU-Edwardsville match," said Petro. "On the whole, though, we showed that good fight­ing spirit, which is always good to see." , 
The amount of fight in Petro's squad was most evident in the Cal Poly-Pomona match, which the Irish won 6-3 despite the fact that late in the match two separate Irish singles players were down triple-match point to their opponents. For­tunately for Notre Dame, freshman Michelle Dasso got up offthe canvas to win her third-set tiebreaker, while number-one singles player 
Susie  Panther  came  back  in ·her  
match to win  a  tiebreaker  in the  
second set.  

"The Cal Poly-Pomona match was a real dogfight," Petro said. "If we hadn't fought so hard in that one, we would have lost it." 
Notre Dame had a much easier time with Auburn, as it handed the Tigers an 8-1 defeat in the opening match of the tournament. The Irish 
followed that victory with another 8-1 drubbing, this time over host­school Florida Southern. In this match, the only Irish loss came in the number-one doubles slot as Pan­ther was given a rest by Petro. The new combination of Laura Lee and Isobel O'Brien was not enough to keep the Irish shutout. 
The Irish ran out of true grit the following day against SIU­Edwardsville, losing a close match, 5-4. Although early victories by number-two singles player Mary Colligan ( 6-0 in the tourney) and by number-three singles player Usa LaFratta (5-1 in the tourney) put the Irish in a good position, SIU­Edwardsville proved to have too much depth, as it took victories in number four, five, and six singles. 
Judge upholds existing laws 

Cubs strike out in attempt at lights 
Assoclatcd Press 
CHICAGO -There will be joy in Wrigleyville. The mighty Cubs have struck out. 
"Yes, you're out. 0-U-T. The Cubs are out," Circuit Judge Richard Curry said yesterday in upholding state and city laws that effectively ban night baseball at Wrigley Field, the only major league ballpark in America without lights. 
"DON'T BLAME ME! 
I VOTED FOR MONDALE!" 
Bumperstickers for only $2: 
B.P., P.O. Box433 
Edison, NJ 08818 Curry's ruling came in response to 
a suit filed in December by the Cubs 
seeking to have those laws declared 
unconstitutional. 
The judge's ruling interspersed 
lyrics from the song "Take Me Out 
To The Ballgame" and concluded on a light-hearted note: "Justice is a . southpaw and the Cubs just don't hit 
lefties!" 
But it looks like this contest will 
have extra innings -a notice of ap­
peal was filed with the Illinois Ap­
pellate Court by Cubs attorneys. 
General Manager Dallas Green 
said in Mesa, Ariz., where the Cubs 
are in spring training, that he was 
"very, very disappointed" with the 
ruling. 
NURSING MAJORS I INTENSIVELY CARE FOR DOMINO'S PIZZA. 
277-2151 


"Ifwe had played a bit smarter, we could have beaten SIU­Edwardsville," noted Petro. "I was pleased with Mary Colligan and lisa LaFratta, but I was a bit disappointed in the defeats to the bottom of our lineup." 
Still, one blemish could not ruin the entire tournament, and Petro saw many things which pleased her. 
"I think we have our people in the right places," said the seventh-year Irish coach. "I think Susie Panther could have won the two matches which she lost, even though she was playing last year's national cham­pion in one ofthem. 
"Also, Panther and Laura Lee went 

undefeated in doubles as the 
number-one team, and our number­
three team of Dasso and Schnell 
matched the feat." 
Apart from the individual suc­cesses, the tournament gave the Irish a taste of the type of competi­tion they will have to face in the NCAA tournament at the end of the 
season. 
"It was a grueling week, but it was good experience," Petro said. "As long a5 I see that fighting spirit, I think we will be all right." 
If that fighting spirit can hold up for the duration of the season, Petro and the women's tennis team may be in the winning corner more often. 
While he made no reference to rumors that the Cubs would move from Wrigley Field if they couldn't get lights, he said, "We consider this very, very serious business." 
Many residents, including a few bleacher bums, an often rowdy col­lection of die-hard fans, rejoiced at Curry's ruling. / 
"I like baseball the way it's always been here," said Mark Sussman, 26, an electrician who was repairing wiring at the Sports Corner Restau­rant and Lounge near the park. 
"You get up early some morning when you've got nothing to do and you go to the bleachers," he said. "You watch major league baseball, you get a tan and you look at the girls in their halters. It's good." 
"It means peace and tranquility" for the community, said Alderman Bernard Hansen, whose ward in­cludes part of the area around the 71-year-old ballpark. 
. Many residents argued that the switch to night games would in­crease existing troubles like litter, noise, traffic and a shortage of parking spaces. 
Attorneys for the ballclub had argued the speedy passage ofa 1982 state statute and a 1983 city or­dinance proved the National League team was "tried, condemned and 
convicted"  of operating  a  public  
nuisance  before  being  given  a  
chance to defend itself.  

In a 64-page ruling, Curry said, "No one can seriously suggest ... that the influx of 37,000 visitors into a residential community at night is not quantitively different than those same numbers during the daylight hours." 
The judge said the Cubs "made no assertion" that the ban on lights ad­versely affected attendance or gate receipts nor offered any "correlation between daytime tele­vision and nighttime television reve­nue potential." 
Thanks to you... • 
it works ... 
for ALL OF US un..~-.. 
-----~ 

r The Observer Tuesday, March 26, 1985 -page 14 

Strong safety joejohnson, shown here wrapping up SMU tailback jeff Atkins in last year's Aloha Bowl, is one of the players that Notre Dame must replace next season. The Irish began trying to fill 

Hazzard pleased to return to MSG 
NEW YORK· Walt Hazzard, who played at Madison Square Garden for I 0 seasons while In the National Bas­ketball Assoclation, Is pleased to return to the f:uned arena on the col­
le~level. 
Hazzard, In his first season as head coach at UCLA, never made the Gar­den In three seasons as a Bruins' player, Including the I%3-64 season when they were 30-0 and won the NCAA champion. 
And Madison Square Garden, the site of tomorrow's semifinals and Friday's final of the National Invita­tion Tournament, seemed a long 
way away for Hazzard, whose team 
at one time was 9-11. 
"We just kept working on fun­damentals and didn't change the sys­tem at all," said the 42-year-old Hazzard, whose Bruins won 1 0 of their last 11, including three NIT 
games played at Pauley Pavilion, for a 19-12 record. The only loss was in four overtimes to Pac-1 0 rival South­em California. 
Hazzard, a native of Philadelphia, talked yesterday at a news confer­ence with coaches ofthe other three NIT semifinalists. 
UCLA will play Louisville tomor­
row following the Indiana­
Tennessee game scheduled for 
7 


........."''"'''""""''"'''"'"'"'""''''"'""''"'""'''" 
THE SPOTFOR LATE-NIGHTMVNCHIES 

DARBY'S 
PLACE 
Sunday thra Thanday 
In LaFortune Basement 
of/theN~UZ 


..........HIIIIHIIIIIH....IIIHIHIIII.....HIHNIIIHIIIHHIIIHIIIItl 

Mile relay surfaces as Notre Dame strength at LSU Paper Tig.er Invite 
By MIKE SZ\'MANSKI sees the freshman Garrett, who has Sports Writer run 14:34 in the S,OOO, as a possible NCAA qualifier. 
As the Notre Dame men's track Uoyd Constable has already team began its season last weekend qualified for the NCAA high jump at the l.SU Paper Tiger Invitational, event and James Patterson has an ex­the mile relay emerged as the team's cellent chance to qualify in the long best hope for the NCAA nationals. jump. Joel Autry also will long jump and triple jump, Gary Lecander will 
The mile relay of Robert Nobles, triple jump and Chuck linsenmeyer Dan Shannon, Van Pearcy and Mitch will high jump. Van Eyken ran a 3:08.41, which The sprinters this year include would have been a school record if Phil Gilmore and Tony Ragunas in they had not been disqualified. All the 100. The high and intermediate four have had solid indoor perfor-hurdles are run by John Sorenson, mances. Brian Curcio and Mike Brennan, 
Nobles also will run the 800. who has run 53.3 in the inter· Pearcy, who ran a 46.2 in the 400 at mediate. l.SU, Shannon, who competed at last The javelin, shot put and discus year's TAC nationals, and Van Eyken throwers all seem to be a year away will run the 400. The middle from an NCAA bid, according to As­diatance crew is led byJohn McNelis sistant Coach Ted Potts. Freshmen andJeffVan Wie, who both ran 1:52 Tom Mick and Tim Smith will throw in the 800 at l.SU. the shot, while Brian Driscoll, Andy 
Bill Courtney recorded a 9:00 Ferguson,Jim Hoff and Steve Demar­steeplechase as he and Rick Mulvey tino will throw the javelin. Chris will concentrate on that event. The Matteo will pole vault after a fine in­Irish look to freshmen Paul Duvair, door season. John Dadamlo and Nick Sparks, who was fourth at the California state Plane will experiment this meet last year, to contribute in the weekend at the Notre Dame lnvita­800 and the 1 500. tiona! to test the ability of his run-
The distance runners at 5,000 and ners. 10,000 will include Dan Garrett, "The next six weeks will be Mike Collins, John Magill and Ed exciting," he promises. "We have Willenbrink. Irish coach Joe Plane one great meet after another." 
p.m. EST. The championship is scheduled for 9 p.m. Friday. 
"No one expected the UCLA bruins to be anywhere this year," said Hazzard. "I think we came ofage during the conference season. We're proud ofthe fact that we're here and we earned the right to be here." 
Louisville could also reach the 20­win mark. The last season the Car­dinals, now 19-16, failed to win 20 games was when they went 18-9 in 1969-70. Denny Crum's first year as head coach at Louisville was 1971­72. 


~--------------~----------------------------------------~ 
~4(Jt~C3L~-·--------------------------------------T_u_e_sd_a_y_,M~_c_h_2_6_,_19_8_s 
p_a_g_e_t_s_ 


IRISH GARDENS • IRISH GARDENS 
~1!~1'1,. $AYI 
FORALLYOUR 

B'BeB~N' B·N·~-~ ~~~ 
FLORAL NEEDS 

Bloom County 
1/ElL 1HIS IS 5/MP!YASCIINP!ll. . 5Tfl/PfleP Of 
llO 11E'11HIM< MY MY ~Wli?P 11117 IJIIN/5H€P 
SC/eNTTf/C PKIPC 1D MY Ka?M f(}f{ Til€ 
t5N'r Cf<V51EP r CKfftiE rF 6f?INGING 11 llO 11EY 1lf!NK N~ we!V'ON 1lJ rM NOr lllfif ·' 
SCHOOL. •• 
I 

" 
Zeto 
SD TIIESE A'RE YOUR PicTURES rn:>M BRE.Ai\f 
The Daily Crossword 

ACROSS 1 Assumed character 
5 Neck parts 10 Local stir 14 Author Hunter 15 Ease 16 Underdone 17 Krupa or Kelly 18 Solid ground 20 Wile 21 Wings 22 Speaks 
violently 23 Bridge 
supports 26 Action center 27 Estonian city 28 Paris airport 31 Moral lapse 32 Poe heroine 35 Do handwork 36 Human or rat 37 Hardy heroine 40 Tax man 43 Society's 
seamy side 48 Beetalk 49 Ornamental 
stone 50 Moslem prince 51 Begin hensive 53 Begin 12 Ancient Asian 56 Freshet land 57 Entwined 13 Feudal farm 58 John -Passos worker 59 Solemn person 19 Skirmish 61 Certain bills 24 Lead performer 62 Small land 25 Wind instru· 
mass ment 
63 Mimics 29 Network of 64 Vissi d'-nerves 65 Ooze 30 Villain's 66 Irascible look 67 Customer 33 Quito's land: 
abbr. 

DOWN 34 Offer tempo· 1 Boat race rarlly 2 Swamped 38 Practiced 3 Portable light natation 4 Chemical · 39 A few 
suffix 40 Body of a car 
5 Of birth 41 Aim 6 Poplar 42 Friendly 7 Sunshade 44 Breaks the 8 Ralsond'-cipher 9 Red or Black 45 Performs 
AGATE DOPEYIIII 
s u 
N "Is I 0 'I..G 0 B
H I K E A G E E E M I l E E l l S G 0 l D R A R E R S E E S E R I S S 0 l 0 N 

46 Fr. poet-55 Untidy 
de Lisle 57 Help with the 47 Bureau dishes 49 Scoff 60 Held a 52 Precipitous meeting 54 Open 61 Gr. letter 
NO 
OfFENSe. 
I 
Kevin Walsh 
AND THIS ONES '"Z.ETO CPIU6HT 
OSJN6 YAtiKEE" 

Campus 
•3:30 
p.m.-Graduate Seminar, "Etch Direc­tionality and Uniformity Control in Plasma Etching," Demetre}. Economou, University of Illinois, Urbana, Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall, Sponsored by Chemical Engineering Depart· ment 

•4:20 
p.m. -Physics Colloquium, "Nuclear Structure Effects in Explosive Nuclear Bur­ning," Michael Wiescher, University ofMainz, 401 Nieuwland Science Hall 

•4:30 
p.m. ~ Lecture, "linguistic Primitivism in Romaticism and Modernism," Goran Printz­Pahlson, Cambridge University, 210 O'Shaughnessy Hall, Sponsored by English De­partment 

•7 
p.m. · Film, "Target Nicaragua," Carroll Hall, Sponsored by the St. Mary's Peacemakers 

•
7 p.m. · Meeting, Center for Social Con­cerns, Sponsored by Students for the Nuclear Freeze 

•7, 
9:15, and 11:30 p.m. -Film, "Bladerunner," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, $1.50 

•7:15 
p.m. -AIESEC Meeting, Hayes-Healy Auditorium 


TV Tonight 
Gary Larson 

. 
Protozoan gossip. 
•7:30 
p.m.· Film, "The Man Who Knew Too Much," Annenburg Auditorium 

•7:30 
p.m. · Faculty Seminar, "Christian Marriage and Family Life · The Promise and the Challenge," Father Edward A. Malloy, Rooms 112-114 CCE 

•8:00 
p.m. -Lecture, "Religion and Politics: Drawing the Une," Elliott H. Levitas, former Georgia Congressman, Memorial library Auditorium 

•9 
p.m. ·Bowling Night, Meet at 8:30 at Main Circle, Beacon Bowl, Sponsored by SPERO/Engineering Week, S1 per game 


DinnerMenus 
Notre Dame Roast turkey breast with dressing Indian Moussaka Hungarian Noodle Bake 
Saint Mary's Vegitarian quiche Beefchow mein Roast beefau jus Beeftaco with hot sauce 
· 11:00 p.m. 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 Body Electric 
11:30 p.m. 22 Fall Guy/Columbo 28 ABC News Nightline 34 Movie: "The Most Dangerous Game" 
12:00a.m. 28 Love Connection 
8:00p.m. 22 
'28 
34 
8:30p.m. 28 9:00p.m. 28 34 lO:OOp.m. 28 34 
CBS Special Movie: "Anna Karenina" lbree's A Crowd NOVA 320: "The Case of the Ber· muda Triangle" Who's the Boss? MacGruder & Loud Grant Wood's America Oto Moonlighting Austin City Limits 1011: "The Gat­lins/Nanci Griffith" 

Better Prices 
MON-SAT 12:30-5:30 

or than that ••ather stare•• an campus DIAL 283-4242 Schaal supplies * Health & Beauty needs 
OrdP-early for corsages and wrapped flow• 
• 2nd Flaar LaFartune Dpen Man-Fri. 3 -7 p.m 

Tuesday, March 26, 1985 -page 16
SRorts 

Irish fencers fail in bid for national championship 
Defending champion Wayne State edges host Notre Dame by one point 
By MICHAELJ. CHMIEL 
Sports Writer 
The Wayne State Tartars defended their na­tional championship in fencing last week by edging out Notre Dame by a single point at the 1985 NCAA championship tournament hosted by Notre Dame in the Angela Athletic Facility at Saint Mary's. 
The Tartars accumulated 141 points in the double-elimination event to Notre Dame's 
140. Coming in third was Columbia with 11 7 points, followed by Yale (94) and Pennsylva­nia(93). 
Leading the way for the reigning titlists was 
repeating national champion Ettore Bianchi. 
After going virtually untouched throughout 
the season, the Wayne State senior topped the 
epee field for the second straight year, finish­
ing with a 17-2 record. 
Also capturing top honors and furthering 
the Tartar cause was Stephan Chauvel. After 
finishing fourth in the 1984 NCAA tourna­
ment, Chauvel was able to come up with a 16­
2 ellon to dethrone defending national 
champion Charles Higw~-Coulthard of Notre 
Dame In the foil. 

"Wayne State deserved it," said Irish head coach Mike DeCicco. "They deserved it In winning both gold medals. We just didn't fence as well as we should have when we had to." 
Leading the way for the Irish in the two-day event was senior captain Andy Quaroni, who won all-American honors in the epee for the second straight year. After posting a solid 35-6 record for the season, Quaroni went 12-8 In the tourney to finish third overall behind Bianchi and Columbia's Steve Trevor ( 16-4 ). 
Falling from all-American honors and a 
fourth-place finish in 1984 was junior transfer 
Christian Scherpe. After solidifying the Irish 
epee squad this season following his tranSfer 
from Cal State-Nonhridge, the juniorwas able 
to muster only a 7-6 mark while finishing 17th 
In the field. 
With only 16 fencers advancing from the preliminary round on Tuesday to Wednes­day's finals, Scherpe was the only Irish fencer not to move up. He barely missed advancing, losing in a sudden-death fence-off. 
In the foil, Higw~-Coulthard provided a strong showing with a 14-4 record. After win­ning the national title last year, the sopho­more finished fourth in the 1985 event and 
earned all-American honors for the second 
straight year. 
Higgs-Coulthard missed a second shot at 
Chauvel when he lost to 26-year old Peter 
Dinsdale of Wayne State by a 10-9 margin in a 
quarterfinal round. It marked the first time 
that the Australian champion had beaten the 
Irish fencer this year. According to DeCicco, it 
was the 1 0-9 type of match that spelled the 
downfall ofthe luckless Irish. 
"Those 10-9 bouts did us in," said the Notre 
Dame coach. "We lost every one ofthem." 
Barely missing all-American honors for the 
Irish was captain Mike VanderVelden. The 
junior went 11-6 In the foil and wound up 
eighth overall. VanderVelden's final match 
also went 10-9 on the negative side. 
In the sabre, the national title went to defending champion Michael Lofton of New York The senior won his second straight title after going 1 7-1, losingonlyin the preliminary rounds. 
Another strong Notre Dame entry wasJohn 
Edwards. After a 25-5 regular season, Edwards 
went 12-6 in the tourney, losing his final bout 
by the familiar 10-9 margin. With his showing, 
the junior finished fifth and earned all­
American honors for the first time. 
After coming in second to Lofton in 1984, 
junior Don Johnson remained in the top 10, 
slipping to ninth. Johnson finished out his 
season with a 10-6 showing after going 28-7 
on the year. 
"I knew it was going to be a dog fight be­tween Wayne State and Notre Dame when Penn lost a couple of kids early," DeCicco said. "In the end, there were some disappoint­ments, but the kids really did a good job fol­
lowing the loss ofScherpe. 
"When you think ofall the one-point bouts that we lost along the way, I would say that the better team won. We tried hard, but just didn't fence well enough to get that last touch." 
In the women's tournament, the third team entry in the history of Notre Dame women's fencing finished ninth in the 12-team field. 
Leading the way for the Irish was follist Molly Sullivan. After notching 43 wins against only four losses in the regular season, the freshman finished fifth in the individual com­petition, as she was barely edged out of the running for the gold by the eventual cham­pion, Caitlin Bilodeaux ofColumbia. 
"She fenced absolutely out of her mind," said DeCicco. "She's going to be competing for that old for the next three years." 


Defending national foil champion Charles Higgs-Coulthard lost his title to Wayne State's Stephan Chauvel, 16-2, in last week's NCAA championship tournament in tbe Angela Athletic Fact/tty at Saint Mary's. Wayne State successfullly defended its na­tiona/ championship, edging Notre Dame by onepoint, 141-140, to take tbe title. 
Football team begins spring practice with lots to get done 
By LARRY BURKE 
Sports Writer 

With the openingofspringfootball practice yesterday afternoon, Irish head coach Gerry Faust began to work on his list of "things to accomplish this spring." And it is a list thatwill keep the fifth-year coach and his stall very busy, especially in the next five weeks ofteam workouts and scrimmages. 
"We've got a lot of things to work on this spring," says Faust. "We want to concentrate on becoming better individually, but we also want to develop better offensive and defen­sive units, as well as a better kicking game." 
The first step towards improving on last year's team will be filling the holes left by graduating seniors. Replacements must be found for all-Americans like tight end Mark Bavaro, defensive tackle Mike Gann, center Mike Kelley and strong guard Larry Williams, as well as strong safety Joe Johnson and ful­lbacks Chris Smith and Mark Brooks. In the area ofspecial teams, the Irish will lose punter 
and holder Mike Viracola, in addition to long snapper Kevin Kelly. 
"We're going to move some people around to see what they can do at other positions," Faust says. "We want to develop the two-deep concept at as many positions as we <;an. Last year we worked into that concept by the end ofthe season, but this year we want to develop that depth in the spring. 
"On the offensive line, we should be solid on the first unit, but we need to develop the players in the second unit. We also need to 
see FOOTBALL, page 12 

Disappointment of North Carolina game lingers 
Ten days after the fact, the disappointment lingers. It has nothing to do with what was accomplished during the season as a whole, but rather it is based on what might have been-what might have been had the Notre Dame basket­ball team beaten North Carolina on March 16. 
Perhaps most disheartening about the 60-58 loss of the Irish to the Tar Heels Is the way in which the loss occurred. With the score tied at 58 and under two minutes remaining in the game, Notre Dame took possession and elected to hold the ball for a final shot. The Irish, despit~ several close calls at losing the ball to North Carolina's "scramble" defense, managed to maintain control and were in an ex­cellent position to win the game. 
Notre Dame elected not to call a final timeout to set up, 
figuring such a move would give North Carolina ample op­
ponunity to position its defense and not wanting to risk a 
five-second call or interception on the inbound. So, with 
1 0 seconds left, the call was for David Rivers to go with it. 
Rivers drove left. Around Kenny Smith. AroundJoe Wolf. 
Only Curtis Hunter remained between him, an uncon­
tested jumper, and a chance at the win. 
But then, the unimaginable happened. 
Rivers, the hero of so many other games this year, lost the ball, bouncing It off his leg as he got past Wolf and approached Hunter. The ball ricocheted forward to Hunter, who promptly heaved a pass upcourt to Smith. The 
Tar Heel point guard went in unmolested for the slam, a dunk which effectively slammed the door on Notre Dame's season. 
As one would expect, all eyes were on Rivers afterward, everyone wanting to know what had happened to cause him to lose the ball. On the surface, blame for the loss would seem to fall squarely on the freshman's shoulders. But such narrow-mindedness is truly unfair to Rivers. 
Without his 1 7 points In the Carolina game Notre Dame 
cenainly would not even have been In a pos*'ition to win. 

~----------------------~~---------­

Jeff Blumb 
Sports Editor 
The same is true in a more general sense. It isn't likely that 
the Irish would have accomplished all that they did in the 
season without the play of Rivers. He made Notre Dame 
basketball what it was this year-no ifs, and's or but's about 
it. 
Digger Phelps might have said this best when he made his post-game remarks. "We've been living with David all year, and we were going to live with him today," said the Irish coach. "He's got nothing to be ashamed of. lfwe had the same situation again, Rivers would still have the ball, we'd make the same move." 
Give Notre Dame a lot ofcredit for the way it played in the Carolina game. The Irish fell victim to some easy bas­kets by the Tar Heel front line early, but were able to make some adjustments and, with the excellent defensive play of Jim Dolan on North Carolina's Brad Daugheny, effectively shutdown that aspect ofthe Tar Heel offense in the second half. The fact that the Irish could come back from the six-point deficit they faced with seven minutes left in the game should not go unnoticed either. 
The only fault one could find with Notre Dame in the game was the team's abominable free throw shooting. The Irish went 14-26fromthellne(54percent)intheloss.l..ast season's nemesis -poor free throw shooting -returned after having been in hiding all year long. The 12 misses was the most by Notre Dame in any game this season. 
The Irish, and in particular Rivers, should bounce back 
next year to have an even better season than the 21-9 one 

they had this year. Every staner returns, as Notre Dame 
loses only Dan Dull, Barry Spencer, and walk-on Casey 
Newell to graduation. 
Take a minute and think about what this team 
accomplished this year and what it might accomplish next 
year. Then think about how good younger players like 
Donald Royal, Scott Hicks, and Rivers will be come next 
season after a summer to work on their game. 
Ponder a Royal with an adept outside shot, which he 
plans to work on this summer, added to his cat-quick 
moves inside. Or how about a Hicks who can hit the 
outside shot with more consistency? And then there's 
Rivers. It's hard to imagine what moves he might have by 
next season. 
Not to forget the four seniors-to-be in all this. Ken Bar­
low, Jim Dolan, Tim Kempton, and Joseph Price all figure 
to improve their game, also. This year's three freshmen 
besides Rivers, Matt Beeuwsaen, Gary Voce, and Jell 
Peters, may be able to contribute more next season with a 
year of maturity to their credit. Don't rule out immediate 
help from incoming freshman Mark Stevenson, either. This 
kid has some very impressive credentials. 
The North Carolina game aside, all in all, the 1984-85 season was a good one for the Notre Dame basketball team. The year had its bad moments, like the losses to Rice, Maryland and Butler, but it also had its better moments, like wins over Indiana and UCLA and that final week ofthe 
season, when the Irish toppled Washington, Marquette and Dayton in succession before being placed at home for the NCAA Tournament. 
It may be an old cliche, and it was said last year after Notre Dame made it to the finals of the NIT, but this team has nothing to be ashamed of. Maybe after next season the notion of the Irish being ashamed about their season will be as unimaginable as David Rivers losing the ball was 10 days ago. 







