South Africa -page 5 


Leadership conference to include past leaders 
By SCOTT BEARBY 
Assistant News l:'dttor 
"111<: llall Presidents Council opened tht"ir met·ting in old form last night, contrary to efforts last year which would have reorganized the body. 
The Council hc:an.l from Student Body Vice l'residt·nt Duane Lawrence and student government member Brut·e Lohman ahout an up­coming student government leader­ship conference. The participants will include many alumni who served a.' student leader~ during their college days. 
The conference, explained Lawrence, is scheduled to be held throughout the campus on Oct. 11­13. 
Over the summer, Lawrence, Loh­man, and Student Body President Hllll-lealy began contacting past stu­dent body presidents, judicial coor­dinators. HPC chairmen, Observer editors. and other leaders in order to see if they would be willing to take part in discussions about student leadt•r1ohip and resident·e life. 
Lohman, who is serving as co­chairman of the conference, said two main topks, n:sidentiality and "awnues ofstudent leadership," will he discussed. The sessions will not be tilled with old stories from the alumni. hut will help current stu­dent leaders on developing con­crt·te proposals for the administration, he added. 
Meetings will be held on all parts of the <·ampus and in some residence halls in order to make it more con­venknt for students to attend. Ses­sions will he open to any interested students, according to Lohman. 
In other business, Dillon Hall President John 1-lusmann asked the hall presidents iftheir halls would be willing to help reimburse Dillon for an open air concert they financed during freshmen Orientation. 
Husmann said they "may have put the cart before the horse" in holding the concert before asking the halls to help finance the concert, but felt the event henefited the entire campus. 
HPC Chairman Kevin Howard 
see HPC, page 4 

That's what Notre Dame Ticket Manager Mike Bobinski called waiting for studentfootball tickets, which be said his deparbnent would try to avoid this year. Bobinski, in an article last week, said the new ticket distribution procedure would be "a beckuva lot 


Law Building addition will contain offices, classrooms, courtroom, more library space 
By KATHY CEPERICH scholarly production, explained such as video machines and other The Notre Dame Law School News Staff Law School Dean David Unk. audio-visual equipment. This will al­boasts a good reputation, said Unk "Ibe expanded library will enable low students to conduct mock trials and he hopes the new facility will The addition to the Notre Dame faculty to do research here that they in preparation for actual court ap· enhance it even further. Though Law School will expand its facilities would otherwise have to do at other pearance, Link said. there will be a 60 percent increase hy adding a new library wing, a stu­institutions, he said. A computer will in the size of the law building, Unk dent courtroom and additional clas­provide direct access to other Additional microfilm and said he does not forsee a propor­srooms and offices. libraries, allowing almost limitless videodisc equipment, and a tional increase in the student body, research capacity without leaving telecommunication system will be except in the post-graduate degree 
"llle new library space will the campus Link added. added at a later date, Link said. programs. provide students and faculty with A classroom was designed to Construction began this summer additional research materials. replace the old courtroom and the and is expected to be completed by It will continue to be a small law 
The present facility is a good new courtroom will be equipped July 1, 1986. The addition wiU copy school with individualized teaching working library for teaching efforts, with some of the most modern the Nco-Gothic reproduction ar­and a graduating class of about 160 but the new facilities will encourage courtroom presentation apparatus, chitecture of the existing structure. students, he said. 

U.S. welcomes Soviet attempt at better relations 
chiefs claim that the United States Speakes said the administration prepare for the summit through con­expects the Soviets to make all the has heard such talk before and chal· fidential diplomatic channels. 
WASHINGTON The White concessions. lenged the Soviets to put their He repeated Reagan's challenge to House sidestepped Soviet leader President Reagan, Speakes said, is proposals on the table when arms the Soviets to permit the American Mikhail Gorbachev's charge that the prepared "to meet the Soviets control talks resume Sept. 19 in president the same access to the United States is setting up a con­halfway in an effort to solve Geneva if they are serious ahout Soviet Union's government· frontation at the November summit, problems." negotiating arms reductions. controlled media as Gorbachev has yesterday and chose instead to Meanwhile, a delegation of U.S. to the independent Western press. welcome his pledge to propose senators who met with Gorbachev "Our views of the causes of the "We are pleased that Mr. Gorbac­ways of improving superpower rela­in Moscow yesterday said the Soviet present U.S.-Soviet tensions are hev was able to present his views to tions. leader told them he is ready to make quite different from that presented the American public," Speakes said. 
In the administration's first formal radical offers to reduce nuclear by Mr. Gorbachev," Speakes said in "If President Reagan had a com­reaction to Gorbachev's debut inter· weapons arsenals and may not response to the Soviet leader's inter­parable opportunity to express his view in the Western press, presiden­oppose basic U.S. research on space­view with Time magazine. But he views to the Soviet people through tial spokesman Larry Speakes based military systems · the so­said, "We do not intend to enter into the Soviet media, this would no dismissed the Communist Party called "Star Wars" program. a debate in the media," preferring to doubt improve our dialogue . 
Teachers strikes hit several cities 
Associated Press representing 28,000 teachers in Jim Prescott, a spokesman for the nation's third-largest school Thompson, said the governor was 
CHICAGO-Yesterday, teachers district, launched its third walkout "very frustrated" by the walkout. in Chicago and Seattle went on in as many years after rejecting the "I think he's more frustrated strike, one day before the 430,000-student district's offerofa with this strike than with the past scheduled start of classes; while 3.5 percent salary increase. The ones because last spring he put teachers in Philadelphia shouted union is holding out for a 9 percent together a record increase in their overwhelming approval of a raise. school funding in IUinois," said new three-year contract that Aides to Illinois Gov. James Thompson. averted a walkout. Thompson met yesterday with A coalition of I 7 unions 
Elsewhere, strikes by teachers in hoth sides to present a proposal, representing 12,000 other school 

Q 
10 other school districts in Pen­the terms of which were not dis­workers, including painters and
I . 
nsylvania, Illinois and Michigan closed. engineers, also struck yesterday..~JJ.~ disrupted the resumption of fall "My hope would be to have a The 19,000 member Philadel­
APPhoto 
classes for more than 76,000 stu­settlement this afternoon," said phia Federation of Teachers
Chtca!l.o teachers Union president jacqueline Vaughn, left, 
dents. Jim Reilly, the governor's chief of ratified by voice a vote a S2.50 mil­
flushes th'' victory sign us she rides on the union'sfloat iTI the 1985 
The Chicago Teachers Union, staff. lion, three-year contract.
l.ahor Day Parade in Chicago Monday. 

Wednesday, September 4, 1985-page 2
The Observer 
!
, 
~ ~ 
r 

In Brief 
'· 
A Holy Cross Junior College student was 
injured yesterday afternoon in an accident at the intersection of Juniper Rd. and Edison. Thomas Lewis, 18, of 1102 Portage, was riding his motocycle northbound on Juniper when he apparently failed to obey the stop sign at Edison, according to Glenn Terry, director of Notre Dame security. He struck a car driven by Carl Griman, of 1942 E. Donald St., which was westbound on on Edison, Terry said. Lewis was taken to St. Joseph's Medical Center where he is in stable condition with multiple abrasions, a hospital spokesper­
son said. -The Observer 
A fireman dropped a smoke bomb into the lockers of two other fireman that he suspected of shaving off one of his eyebrows as he slept. The smoke bomb sparked a fire on Aug. 23 in the Evansville, Ind., firehouse that destroyed some clothing and ot­her belongings in the lockers. Two firefighters were given reprimands for not reporting the incident and Capt. JeffAustin was suspended for five days and placed on a year's probation after admit­ting he had dropped the smoke bomb. -AP 
Teachers at Concord High School said 
goodbye yesterday to their colleague, Christa McAuliffe, who begins training next week for a flight in January aboard the space shuttle Challenger. McAuliffe, 37, was chosen inJuly from more that 10,000 teachers across the country to be the first teacher in space. The economics and history teacher said the space program wanted her to begin training Sept. 1, but, she said, "I can't do it. I've got to go to school, for the annual faculty meeting." -AP 
Kokomo AIDS victim Ryan White, who 
was denied permission to attend classes by school officials last month, has been admitted to an Indianapolis hospital. The 13-year­old was in "satisfactory and stable condition," after being admitted on Monday, said Rena Brown, of the public relations department at Riley Hospital for Children. White, a hemophiliac, contracted the disease from blood products, doctors have said. White has par­ticipated in classes so far this school year via a telephone connection from his home about five miles from Western Middle School. -AP 

Of Interest 
Judge Richard Posnerofthe 7th u.s. Circuit Court of Appeals will speak on "The Ethics of Wealthy Maximization" tomorrow at noon in the law school student lounge. -The Observer 
An Ice Cream Social could not come during more appropriate weather. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's sophomore classes are sponsoring an ice cream fest tonight from 8 to 10 on the terrace of the Haggar College Center at Saint Mary's. Eat all the ice cream you can for only n. -The Observer 


Weather 
Sweat it out, literally, today, as tem­peratures will continue to bake a few brains. Partlycloudy and warm todaywith a 20 percent chance of showers mainly in the afternoon. High in the low to mid 80s. Mostly cloudy and mild with a 40 percent chance of thunder­showers tonight. Low in the upper 60s to around 70. Pardy sunny and continued warm 

tomorrow with a 30 percent chance of showers. High In the low 80s. ·AP 
The Observer-
The Obeerver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Obeerver is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saini Mary's CoUege. Subscriptions may be purchased for S30 per year ( •zo per se· mester) by writing The Obeerver, P.O. 
Box Q. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Obeerver is a member of The 

AMoclakd l'rcS8. AU reproduction 
rights arc reserved. 
Today's issue was produced by: 
Design Editor........................ Andi Schnuck Design Assistant .....................Alex Peltzer Typesetters .... Tom Small, Jennifer Bigott, 
Suzanne Hammer News Editor ....................... Bob Musselman Sports Copy Editors............... Mike Chmiel 
Phil Wolf Viewpoint Layout............ Melissa Warnke Features Copy Editor...............Tim Adams Features Layout ......................Alex Peltzer ND Day Editor........................ Diane Dutart SMC Day Editor.................... Priscilla Karle Ad Design......:.................}eanie Grammens 
Jim Kramer 
Photographer .......................... Paul Kramer 



Mutual respect, understanding to result from Five Points party 
Ever since Father Sorin built the first log cabin and called it his college, students have been leaving campus· in the eternal search for kicks. 
Today, huge tribes ofstudents migrate from campus every weekend looking for that exclusive off-campus party, or to stop in for a beer or two at one of the local taverns. 
Anumber oftheories can explain why students are so anxious to leave campus for awhile -such as the cramp­ing alcohol policy, the strict regulations of DuLac, or even a natural need for independence. But the end result is a lot of fun for the students, a lot of worry for the administration, and a lot of sleepless nights for the neighbors. 
The growing prominence of off-campus parties, for the social life of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, has not done a lot for community relations, especially since raids and arrests have become almost a weekly occurrence. 
Perhaps this tension came to a peak in the recent past when the infamous "death marches" were traditional. During the weekend of the final home football game, seniors from both schools would march from campus to the taverns in the Five Points area and beyond. 
The purpose of the death march was to literally party 'til you drop.' And that's ex­actly what most of the seniors did. Not only drunkenness, but vandalism, rowdiness, and often violence were the highlights 
.. 

of the day. .­
The death march was 
eliminated three years ago 

and replaced with the annual block party, where 
seniors are joined by area residents under the double 
domes ofthe ACC for a festival ofmusic, food, beer and 
fun. 

This change in activities ofthe final football weekend did a lot to quell the hostility between the students and the residents of the Northeast Neighborhood. But stu· dents walking to and from Five Points or along Corby Street are often surprised to find that students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's still are not among the resident's favorite people. 
This is perhaps only natural. The resentment that the residents of the Northeast Neighborhood seem to express is not unfounded. Students driving home from the bars or standing in line at the Great American Hot DogStand seldom realize that some ofthe people trying to sleep nearby have to get up for work in the morning. 
But while there still is some hostility and resentment, 
the situation has improved and is continuing to get bet· 
ter. Specifically, the neighbors have invited the students 
University of Notre a me (4
:···············~ 
Department of Communications & Theatre
lt-I am a famous NO Alumni : invites
: I pitch for the LA Dodgers * * You've heard me sing * l4-on the radio : 
MAJORS and STUDENTS INTERESTED IN Film/video
* * 
Media Studies Theatre 
* WHOAMI? * 
* *
* * 
to a Reception in
* 
l4-Check tommorrow's papew ** : fo~ the next clue... ** 
THE LOFT O'SHAUGHNESSY HALL 
Friday, September 6  
March of Dimes  3:30·5:00 pm  
-BIRTH DEFECTS FOUNDATION- Welcome Back COTH majors!  

•............................................., 
: Little 
·• • • •
: ~.~.....--.__, Flower : Montessori :
•
•
•
•
• 
PRE-SCHOOL 

• 
eParent/Child eRindergarten : eToddler eExtended Day : ePre-Primary Kindergarten 


: 15767 Day Rd., Mishawaka 
: 256-5313 : 
• The only accreditedMontessoriSchool in Indiana :
• 
Dan 

McCullough 
News Editor 

to join them this weekend for a party at Five Points. According to the festival planners, the party will enable the student and residents to get together in a context of fun and games, rather than hostility and confrontation. 
The party is the second annual Northeast Fall Festival. It will be held this Sunday at the Goodwill Plaza, at the intersection ofCorby and Eddy streets from noon until 7p.m. 
Neighbors and students will come together over food, games, beer and fun. The festival will be the per­fect opportunity for resi­dents and students to meet eachother, and hopefully discover that people really are the same, whether they live under the golden dome, or at the Five Corners. 
Among other things featured at the festival will be a dunk tank, which will have celebrities from both South Bend and Notre Dame risking being dunked. Also, the Goodwill discount store will be open with 50 per­cent off all prices, and resi­
Mi1R/< ~~IIDLT 'f-~ dents will be holding a rummage sale. 
The Clay Township Fire Department will have their newest fire truck on hand and will talk to people about fire safety. Also, the police deparment will have representatives at the festival to talk about relations between the department, the com­munity and the school. 
South Bend Chief of Police Charles Hurley has even volunteered to sit in the dunk tank. 
Also, a special license has been procured to open a beer tent at the festival. The suds will probably be the only beer available in the area which is otherwise dry on Sundays. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are being given the opportunity to get to know some of the people in the Northeast Neighborhood as something more than just a threat to their safety or to their fun. 
The neighbors have made the effort by inviting the students to their party. Now it is up to the students to show up and prove that the students and the residents really can coexist in peace and understanding -and in mutual respect. 
•
•
• 
ELEMENTARY : Grades • First through Sixth • : 
624 N. Notre Dame Ave. : 

The Observer Wednesday, September 4, 1985-page 3 

Starting over 
"The place which used to be thefleldhouse mall World War II. Rumors that the fenced-In area which used to be the fieldhouse" underwent even would be used as a "petting zoo" as well have not more chaTJges early this week, making way for a been confirmed. memorial to the Notre Dame alumni who died in 



Shuttle mission ends 'near-perfect' 
Auoclated Prt:M 
EDWARDS AIR FORCE BASE, Calif. · Early yesterday morning, space shuttle Discovery's trium­ph;ant astronauts landed safely, completing a "near-perfect" repair mission in space that revived a life­less J8~ mlllion satellite. 
Discovery dropped out of a brightening sunrise sky and mis­sion commander Joe Engle and pilot Dick Covey guided the 100­ton craft to a flawless landing down the centerline on the dry lakebed runway, ending a week-long, 2.9 million-mile voyage. 
"Eddie (Edwards) looks beauti­ful," said Engle, a former test pilot who once flew airplanes at the desert test flight center. 
"Welcome home, Joe, and con­gratulations to the whole crew," said Mission Control. 
jesse Moore, director of N.\SA's space shuttle program, said he was delighted with the mission that in­cluded the "jump start" salvage of the Syncom 3 satellite and the successful launch of three other sateIIites. 

If Syncom 3 works when It is fired toward a higher orbit next month, it wiU become the first commercial satellite salvaged in space. An earlier astronaut crew repaired and relaunched Solar Max, a science satellite. Two broken commercial satellites have been returned to Earth for repairs. 
"I have to characterize this as a near-perfect mission," said Moore at a post-landing news conference. 

Center will integrate liberal arts, sciences 
By MARY REYNOLDS 
News Staff 
Within the next year, a new center integrating the liberal arts and sciences will be established at Notre Dame, according to Provost Timothy O'Meara. 
The John J. ReiUy Center for Science, Technology and Values will attempt to integrate the liberal arts and sciences, said center co-director Vaughn McKim. 
Underwritten by Universtiy alumnusjohn D. ReiUy in memory of his father, the center will attempt "to bring under one roof interests that are interdisciplinary and are relevant to all areas of study," said McKim. 
McKim and fellow Philosophy Department professor Fr. Ernan McMullin will supervise develop­ment and operation of the center's programs, which wiU involve faculty members from several departments. 
The center will be located on the third floor of O'Shaughnessy Hall and according to McKim, will play several roles. One will be to oversee the graduate program for history and philosophy ofscience. 
In addition, the center wiU be responsible for creating an under­graduate Science, Technology and Values concentration which will begin next semester. 
Although the concentration will only be available within the College of Arts and Letters, McKim said in­dividual courses will be open to stu­dents in all colleges. 
Another primary role of the center will consist ofoverseeing the 
five-year  Arts  and  Let­ 
ters/Engineering  program.  New  
courses  will  be  added to the  

program as well as opportunities for new scholarships, said McKim. 
More personalized counseling for students In the program "will help provide an identity for the program and give it more cohesiveness," said McKim. Under consideration is a foreign study program within the five-year curriculum. 
In the future, the center aiso "hopes to encourage • faculty research and will sponser speakers and conferences," McKim added. 


Ten hurt after landing 
ABILENE, Texas -An American Airlines jumbo jet carrying 190 people made an emergency landing yesterday when a warning light ind­icated an engine fire, and 1 0 people were injured while evacuating, offi­cials said. 
Flight 4 36, a DC-10 carrying 1 77 passengers and 13 crewn1embers, was flying from El Paso to Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport when It landed at Dyess Air Force Base shortly after noon, airline spokes­manjohn Hotard said. 
An examination of the engine showed there was no fire In the engine, said airline spokesman Joe Stroop. 
Thirty-two people sought medical 
treatment after sliding down emer­
gency chutes, and 10 required treat­
ment, he said. Two people were 
hospitalized, one with a broken 
ankle and the other for observation 
for a heart problem, Stroop said. 
American said it would send anot­
her DC-10 to Dyess to bring the pas­
sengers the 160 miles east to 
Dallas-Fort Worth, he said. 

Think Before You Drtnk Before You ortve 
RENT BY SEMESTER 
ColorlV Microwave Ovens $70/semester $50Isemester 
~color City 259-7661 
Sunshine Promotions Present 
The Guitar VIrtuoso Is coming to South Bend II 
Friday, September 6 8:00p.m. Morris Civic Auditorium 
A11seats reserved $13 .00 
nokets available at the Century Center lox Office, Night Winds (Nil" and Mishawaka), J.R.'s (La Porte) and SUpersounds (Elkhart) • 
•••Don•t ml11 the hoffest 




The Observer Wednesday, September 4, 1985-page 4 
Canyouaffordtogamble with the LSAT, GMAT 
Darden gets late stay; 


execution will wait GRE,orMCA1? 
Darden had been turned down Probably not Great grades earlier by federal courts in Atlanta alone may not be enough to 
STARKE, Fla. -Convicted mur­and Tampa and the Florida Supreme impress the grad school of derer Willie Darden won a stay of Court. your choice. execution from the U.S. Supreme In denying a stay earlier in the Scores play a part. And Court late last night, hours before he evening, Chief Justice Warren thafs how Stanley H. Kaplan was to die in Florida's electric chair. Burger pointed out that the issues in can help. 
Darden, 52, nicknamed "the sage Darden's appeal had been con­The Kaplan course teaches of death row" by friends and attor­sidered thoroughly by federal and test-taking techniques, reviews neys because he has been on state courts and that the Supreme course subjects, and increases 
r · Florida's death row longer than any Court has had five prior oppor­the odds that you'll do the best r inmate but one, had been condemed tunities to study the issues in his you cando. 
to die at 7 a.m. today, for killing a case dating back to 1977. So if you've been out ofr Lakeland furniture store owner in a The Florida Supreme Court The Observer/Paul Kramer school for a while and need a ~ 1973 robbery that yielded n 5. denied the petition by Darden's at­Go ahead, hit me refresher, or even if you're fresh r The stay was granted by the torney, Robert Harper, which was out ofcollege, do what over 1
Ed Kelly and other members ofthe Boxing Club attempt to talk
r Supreme Court at one minute to based on the premise that there have interested Domers into beating-up other people during student ac­million students have done. 
, 
midnight. The same court had been changes in the law that should Take Kaplan. Why take!
tivities night at Stepan Center last night. Approximately 100 
turned down a bid to halt the execu­entitle his client to a new sentencing a chance with your 
groups participated in the annual infonnative event. 
career?

r 
tion on a 5-4 vote. procedure. 
Upcoming campus activities were the Tommy Shaw concert, held at South African investment policy. He ~ HPC highlighted to the HPC during part the ACC last spring, will be shown, said serving on the committee was a KAPLAN 
STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL GNTER LTD 
of their meeting. Lyons Hall Presi­Lytle said. big step in having more student in­
The worlds leading 

~ dent Joanie Cahill informed the "Cold Drinks" will provide live volvement in University decisions. 
continuedfrom page 1 test prep organization.
t group that Lyons will be hosting a entertainment on Green Field after 
SOUTH BEND AREA
I stressed that the halls were not re­charity volleyball tournament this the broadcast. Dettling also offered to speak to Stanley H. Kaplan Ed. Ctr.
quired to reimburse Dillon, but Saturday. Student · government cabinet any group which is interested in 
1717 E. South Bend Ave.
could if they wanted to. Howard Any team of six Notre Dame or member John Dettling said he and learning more about the turmoil in 
South Bend, Indiana 46637 
agreed the concert was a campus Saint Mary's students are welcome two other student government South Africa. Students here may 
(219)' 272·4135 

event and that it especially benefited to enter, according to Cahill. Sign­representatives were part of a Uni­become more involved as the the South Quad. ups will take place today and tomor­versity Board of Trustees ad hoc problems continue in that country, Off-campus Representative Tom row at LaFortune during lunch hour committee dealing with the current he added. 
McDonald addressed the group and at both dining halls during din­about the problems off-campus resi-ner. The S6 entry fee will benefit the 
. dents had in obtaining football ticket Logan Center, Cahill added. applications. He said many students Bill Lytle, the HPC representative did not r~ceive the information in to the Undergraduate Club, time and 1 were not told the reminded presidents that the club procedure to follow in order to get will get into action this Saturday the application before tickets were night for a non-alcoholic event at distributed. Senior Bar. The MlV broadcast of 
Dance Class Accompanist Needed Fox Ballet and Modern, Possibly Jazz Classes Held at St. Mary's Please Call IfInterested lndi Dieckgrase Dance Faculty 
284-4643 284-4640 







Power 

A 
I 

ata 
Price for Everyone 
lhel.eadngEdgeModei"D" PersoiD~ 
Ful BM Con$UIIJity. $1895. Complete. 
The leading Edge Model D PC comes with 2561< RAM, two 320K floppy disk drives, a high resolution monochrome monitor, buill-In graphics, builtin color, and a price that can't be beat. For a limited lime all ND/SMC students, staff, and faculty can bring In their University ID's and purchase a leading Edge Model 0, the leading Edge Wordproceuor, and a Brother lelttH quality printer lor Juat $1895 complete. Add only $50 for the leading 
Edge Spelling Checker. For more Information contact:  
compute•  401 N. Michigan  
tPcclallttl  SOuth Bend, IN 46601 234-5002  


.. 
..
.. 
... 
.. 
'10 
..• ...
... 
..·. 

Get to the answers faster. With the TI-55--ll. 
What you need to tackle to perform complex calcula­the TI-55-11 even simpler, the higher mathematics of a tions-like definite integrals, and shuw~ yuu how to usc all science or engineering cur­linear regression and hyper­the power of the calculator. riculum are more functions­holies-at the touch of a Get to the answers faster. more functions than a simple hutton. And it can also he L~·t a TI-55-Il Jj:a. slide-rule calculator has. programmed to do repetitive ~how you how. ~ 
Enter the TI-55-Il, with prohlems without re-entering 112 powerful functions. You the entire formula. TEXAS can work faster and more Included is the Cuk:uwtor 
INSTRUMENTS 

accurately with the TI-55-II, Decision-Making Sourcebook. 
Creating useful productsbecause it's preprogrammed It makes the process of using and services for you: 

© 19H'iTl 
The C>bserver Wednesday, September 4, 1985-page 5 
PHOTOGRAPHERS 

The Observer Photo Staff Needs YOU *Many paid positions available *B&W darkroom exp. crucial *Own equipment necessary 
Pick up an application and .iob description at the Observer office, 3rd floor LaFortune 

Uniwr~ity of Notre Dame 
Foreign 

Study 
Progra111s 


Freshman & Sophomores 
GENERAL INFORMATION SESSION WHEN: Wednesday, September 4 WIIERE: llayes-llealy Auditorium Room 122 
TIME: 6:30p.m. Followed by INDIVIDUAL INFOilMATION SESSIONS 
c9t,gtM,~rnm Mexico City. Mexico 
Tok-Yo. Japan ~nn111b-=uch, £lu~triu CAIRO, EGYPT Tiv1jin,d1in.-:1 Jerusalem 


Our $5.49 Wednesday special. 
Call DOMINO'S PIZZA® to get our Wednesday special 
-a 12-inch, singleto~ping pizza for just $5.49. Its a great way to enjoy a hot, custom-made pizza and save money. 
And Domino's Pizza Delivers•· Free. In 30 min­utes or less, or you get $3 
off your order. 
So make Wednesday worth It with our $5.49 Wednesday special. It's available all evening every Wednesday. Only from Domino's Pizza®. 

Call us: 
2n-21s1 
1835 South Bend Ave. Plaza 23 Center South Bend 
()Jft cJirrt~· 
~ 

I 
DOMINO'S 
PIZZA 
DELIVERS® 
®FREE. 

Residents of the Gulf Coast began cleaning up yesterday in the wake of Hurricane Elena. These 
I 
,1 
houses along Indian Rock Beach, Fla., were among the "damaged" properties. 
Black students in South Africa riot against white rule; mine strike ends 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa ­Students abandoned black schools near Johannesburg and rioted around Cape Town yesterday, one year after bloody rent protests set off a tide of violence against white rule that has cost more than 650 lives. 
Police and troops sealed off eight black townships, including the two in which the rent protests began Sept. 3, 1984. 
The black National Union of Mineworkers said last night it had "suspended" a two-day-old pay strike against selected gold and coal mines after a gold mine fired 5,000 of its 7,000 workers. 
Gold Fields of South Africa said earlier that it was "processing" the workers dismissed from its Deelkraal mine, west of Johannes­burg. Mine guards and police fired 
Associated Press 
GLYFADA, Greece-A man lobbed 
grenades over a hotel hedge into a 
pools ide party ofBritish tourists yes­
terday, wounding 19 people, police 
and witnesses reported. The as­
sailant escaped. 
A spokesman for the Voula Red 
Cross Hospital said seven of the 
wounded, including a 28-year-old 
woman who was pregnant, were 
kept overnight and were in stable 
condition. The others were released 
after treatment for cuts and 
puncture wounds caused by flying 
glass or shrapnel. 
A woman called several daily 
newspapers claiming responsibility 
in the name of the terrorist group tear gas to drive strikers away from a heavily guarded dormitory block, where management said 1,400 miners who wanted to work took shelter. 
In announcing the suspension, the union said it was seeking a court in­junction· to stop management from sending dismissed miners back to impoverished black homelands. It said Marievale already had sent 300 miners home. There was no im­mediate comment from the mine management. 
The eight sealed townships in­cluded Sharpeville and Sebokeng, near the industrial white towns of Vereeneging and Vanderbijl Park, 30 miles south ofJohannesburg. 
There had been rioting incidents in August, but it was the Sept. 3 protest ofrent hikes that marked the beginning of South Africa's year of black rage against apartheid, the 
Black September. She threatened to "fill Athens with bombs" unless Greece frees a jailed Palestinian gun­man who allegedly admitted plan­ning to kill the Jordanian ambassador. 
BlackSeptember is named for Sep­tember 1970, when King Hussein's army drove Palestinian guerrillas out ofJordan. 
Witnesses said a dark-complected man hurled two grenades into the crowd at the Hotel Glyfada pool and was picked up by a waiting car. 
"We were having a party around the swimming pool when someone threw two or three round objects over the hedge," said Michael Har­ding, 40, ofHorsham, England. "One went offamong the crowd and anot· 
race laws that guarantee supremacy 
to the white minority. 
A black man was shot to death yes­
terday in the black Eastern Cape 
township of Duncan Village, near 
East London, when pollee fired on a 
crowd during a gasoline bomb at­
tack on a police vehicle, national 
police headquarters in Pretoria 
reported. 
It also said students demonstrat­
ing at the University of the North, in 
the Lebowa tribal homeland, went 
"on the rampage." One student was 
seriously wounded and five were ar­
rested, the report said. 
In the huge black city of Soweto, 
which houses 1.5 million people 
outside Johannesburg, thousands of 
high school students left classes and 
roamed the streets. Residents said 
the anniversary walkout spread 
rapidly in a mixture of spontaneity 
and coercion by militant students. 
her in the swimming pool. We're lucky to be alive. Tfiere was blood everywhere." 
The explosions blew out win­dows in the adjoining dining nx>m at the Glyfada, which is in the seaside suburb of that name and is among more than a dozen hotels strung along the main highway to Athens Airport. 
The Palestinian, identified as Salameh Haten Samir, 26, was ar­rested Friday near theJordanian Em­bassy. He was charged yesterday with illegal possession of an automatic weapon and a hand grenade. 
Police sources said Samir ad­mitted that he intended to assas­sinate the ambassador. 

Timothy Leary: 
23 gears ago, as a Harvard psgchologist, he taught a graduate seminar on Creating Your Dmn Realitg. Optional Text: LSD. In eight dags, he'll be teaching here. 
(i) 1995~ S•nsationa1 Adv•rtis•m•nts ~ Inc. 
mThe Future Pers~ectives Series _ '--I.BITIJIT((((((·8 (([({(((00 ~r(m llJ 
View~_O_l_·_n_t_________w_ed-ne-sd-ay_,s_ep-te-mb_e_r4_,1_9s_s_-p_ag_e6 
Modern Catholics should judge self before others 
r 
r 
Every time I have attended Mass on Palm r Sunday, I have always thought about how ab­horrent the Jews were when they crucified my Saviour, Jesus Christ, by nailing Him to a r tree. Reading the Passion story in church r invokes in me a strong sense of hate for any person who could have murdered a peace r loving man. It has always seemed such a waste 
r 
r 
ofhumanity.
r 
r 
~ 
r 
Kevin Becker 
Recently, I began to think about the Jews' treatment ofChrist and how little right I have to condemn them. They saw Him merely as a wise and prophetic man who was a far cry from the King whom they were promised
r 
would deliver them from bondage. The crime of Jesus' crucifixion was, of course, hideous; but it always scares me to think of how modern Americans would treatJesus Christ if he were to return to earth exactly as He did 2000 years ago. 
Recently, my seven year old cousin asked me a very surprising question. She said, "Tom, what is the greatest problem in the world?" My jaw dropped, my eyes widened and I burst out laughing. 
And my response was, "Usten kid, you're too young to be asking questions like that. Still, because you asked, I'll do my best to go out and find an answer for you." And then­just for some peace of mind -I thought of some answers. In a lighthearted sort ofway, I thought of academic woes, of gridiron woes, ofall the typical difficulties ofthe undergrad. 
Tom Considine 
the answer 
I never forgot that bright sunny July day when I was "popped" with the question. 
Aweek later, I found myselfout on the golf course with an old high school buddy. We were on the fairway ofthe second hole and my friend had just driven his shot into the brush. Not a bad shot, I reckoned. It just needed a little straightening out. And then, I thought, what the heck. "Jimmy, what is the greatest problem in the world?" He looked at me for a second and then answered quite seriously, "My left hook." We laughed for a moment and then moved on. 
By this time, July had turned into August 
Doonesbury 

The results, I presume, would be frighten­ingly parallel. 
In the United States there is an astronomical number of"Christians" in every field ofwork. There are Christian businessmen and politicians and plumbers and professors. Despite the great numbers, I wonder how many of these supposed Christians, including myself, would recognize Jesus Christ if He were to return to America. Most ofthe people in this society firmly stand behind the capitalist system of the United States. We believe in trying to better our financial well 
to the point being and often have little ethical regard for ------------------the effect that our betterment may have on
others. 

IfJesus were to return to earth today as an American, how many of us would recognize Him or accept His word as truth? How would pro-choice proponents respond to His con­demnation of abortion? How would wealthy businessmen respond to His words telling them that they should liquidate their riches and give their money to the poor? What would Christ say to politicians who try to have the "best of both worlds" by claiming to be Cat-
Man's confusion may be world's greatest problem 
and I realized for the twentieth time that sum­mer was passing too quickly. In fact, my sum­mer was almost over. Unfortunately, the question still remained. 
One day at work I turned to my partner and asked him the question. "Gee, Bill, what do you think is the greatest problem in the world?" His answer: "Personal survival, my personal survival -making ends meet, keeping alive, happy and satisfied." Simple question­simple answer right? 
That afternoon I asked another fellow employee the same question. And like the ot­her two, he had an answer for me. He said, "Not having enough money, not having finan­cial security. In three words -my bank ac­count." 
By this time I was quite interested in the responses I had heard. They were fascinating. They were remarkable, and all for the same reason. All three failed to answer the question as I had stated it. All three had confused two of the simplest words in the English language. "The" does not equal "My." "The world" does not necessarily mean just "my world." Ah-maybe I was on to something. In consider­ing the question, each had failed to bring an objective mindset; each thought primarily in terms of himself, and himself alone. Each had confused "our greatest problem" with "my greatest problem." 
What a stupid mistake, I thought. But then I 
7VOAY, 7Ht CRJJSH 15 ON. 
50 YOU AVA/LA&&?H&'t YOU 
[)()N7 7HINK £V£R TRJ£1) 7V FO/lC&
AU~ lH£ YUP5 Vf/ANT IN, 
Bl!TlHt AI<£A'5 STILL 
lHCR£'5 AN EJ..JJtRLY JW5H 
ANYlHING Of< BlACK CfJUPi&
INF£5T£0 WITH OW N£/GH­
BORHfXX? lYP£5 WHO JfJ5T 
AVAII..A8/.E? OI.JT OF 7Hf3./IZ 
WON'T 8U06£.l 
""' 



P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Obs81'Ver is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­sible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­taries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expreaaion of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
holic faithfuls but who then act as secular offi­cials? 
Can people be Christians for half of their daily lives and practice popular secular morality for the other half? Many people in this country try to do just that. 
I consistently manage to begin chuckling as I leave my hometown neighborhood church after Sunday Mass. Just as soon as most of the Catholics escape from the doors of the church, they turn into rabid Tasmanian devils behind the wheels oftheir cars. They cut each other off in the parking lot, they curse each other under their breath and they manage to turn a peaceful Sunday afternoon into a World War II battle scene. They do all of this just a short period after they turned to one another and said "May the peace of Christ be with you." 
Is that the peace of Christ? Do we as Chris­tians and Catholics practice what we preach? Or do we fill our churches and call ourselves Christians because there is some fear of damnation that clouds our hearts? 
There are many so called Catholics who react with offense when anyone says someth· ing derrogatory about their religion, but who also flagrantly violate the precepts of that same religion. There are adulterers and liars and thieves who stroll up to the communion rail every Sunday and then have the nerve to criticize those who questions their Catholic beliefs. 
I am not trying to say that sinners should not be Catholics or any variation of that myopic interpretation that some will want to make of this column; however, I am trying to say that people should not be so quick to be defensive of their own religion when it is questioned. One should not be as naive to believe that the Catholics in America today are white as snow in the eyes ofChrist. 
To the contrary, I believe that Christ would have just as rough a time with us as He did with theJews 2000 years ago. If Christ were to come back to this earth and begin to point out the imperfections in our Catholic Church, it would be frightening to see how He would be treated. I have a feeling that those of us with 
the greatest sin would be the first  to cast  
stones.  
Kevin  Becker  is  a  sophomore  in  the  

Program ofLiberal Studies and an assistant Viewpoint editor. 
took a look around and laughed. A stupid nothing but ourselves, and when the rest of mistake -maybe. But a common mistake as the world and all its problems simply disap­well. pear -we leave only our problems and our­Last week I saw my little cousin again and selves. It can be a pretty bad one. But saddest 
asked her, "What is the first thing that you do of all, it is unnecessary. So kid, do you under­stand what I mean?" She just looked at me and laughed. 
I don't think too often about the question anymore. Perhaps I found my answer. 
Tom Considine is a senior in the college of 
when you get up in the morning?" 
"Look in the mirror and brush my teeth," she said. 
"Exactly right," I remarked. "We look in the mirror; we look at ourselves. And kid, I suppose that this universal habit is not really a bad one. The problem starts when we look in that mirror all day, every day -when we see 

Garry Trudeau 


Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief .............................Sarah E. Hamilton Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan News Editor ............................... , ... Keith Harrison Jr News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Sports Editor ........................................... Jeff Blumb ~nt Editor ......................................... Mary Healy Viewpoint Editor .................................... Joe Murphy Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches Copy Chief .............................................. Frank Lipo 
Operations Board 
Business Manager ...................... David Stephenitch Controller ............................. William J. Highducheck Advertising Mam~ger .............................. Jim Hagan Systems Manager ......................... Mark B. Johnson Production Manager ....................... John A. Mennell 
Founded November 3, 1966 
Accent 
Wednesday, September 4, 1985-page 7 
A freshman's wide-eyed view of Notre Dame 
the door smirks and takes it away KrisMurphy 
from you. You don't understand this until a junior tells you that those
features writer 

apples have been there a long time and they are an institution, sort of like the Holy Cross cabin. In filet, 
S 
aturday, August 24. You Parting with your parents is a bad 
those ;.pples have been there since
strike out from hometown U.S.A. scene. Mom cries a lot and rwists 
that cabin was built. That explains
with a station wagon full ofall the your arm until it's blue. Dad pats 
why they were so soft. You decide
necessities ofcollege life (stereo, you on the back and says nice 
that maybe the upperclassmen are
refrigerator, beer posters, maybe things like "Don't screw up" and 
right about the food.
two or three pencils). You are "Don't call too often, we're not accompanied by your parents who made of money." When they finally 
That night you go to Saint Mary's 
alternately look proud and worried. leave you get to meet your 
for the first time. The nice lady at Your destination: HfE UNIVERSITY roommates. They come from places 
the front desk says that you cannot 
OF NOTRE DAME (trumpets sound, like Massachusetts and Los Angeles. 
go upstairs yet unless you are 
dancing girls appear). After hours You like your roomies but other 
related to one ofthe girls. You on the highway, during which your people are not so lucky. They say 
proceed to explain how you and parents have offered enough advice "My roomie is a gcek and he doesn't 
your four cousins have travelled to straighten out Jack the Ripper, use deodorant." That night you 
many miles to see your dear sister you see TlfE DOME. You feel meet your RA. He says things like "I 
and the nice lady lets you go up. On 
proud, inspired, ready to start a new shouldn't be telling you this but ..." 
the stairs you meet other cousins 
<:hapter in your life. You don't feel and "I didn't say that!" You go to 
and brothers. You also meet nep­so proud when you can't find a bed smelling ethanol and thinking 
hews and second cousins. Saint 
parking spa<.·e and you realize that about your dinner. This means 
Mary's is just like one big familyyou forgot to pack underwear.• something too but you can't figure 
reunion. The guys In your hall arc very this one out either. hdpful. They shakt· your hand and You wake with the worst breath You like Saint Mary's because the hdp you unpack your car. Ifyou of the day. Minty fresh Scope takes girls are cute and they get excited live in Grace or Hanner they take care of that and you're off to when you come over because you you 10 an air·conditloncd room orientation. You go to Mass and are now a domer. A domer. You with <.·able television hookups. If meet a cute girl. This is probably have worked hard and waited a long you live in an older hall they take illegal or something but you get her time to become one. This feeling you to somt·thing quite different. It phone number anyway. On the way might not last very long, though. n·semhlcs a room in shape and home from the ACC you and your When you are an upperclassman structure hut it is smaller. Much roomies get lost. The campus did ~ you will complain about everyth· smaller. How much smaller is it? It not look this big on the back of the ing: the food, the snow, the football is so small that the cockroach on Notre Dame folder that you bought team, and the administration. You tht" windowsill is blocking all the at the bookstore. You meet other · MA~i waniwtr · might even forget what made you light. lltcrc are large holes In the packs of roving freshmen. They are want to be here so badly. You might walls too. Later you will be told not lost too. You can tell because they find your hall. You make a pact with You enjoy the food at dinner. forget the mystique that is such a to stick any tacks in the walls be­whisper to each other a lot and· your roomies to never get lost 'lltis is probably a mistake because part of this place. But for now you cause you might crack the plaster their heads go around and around again. Ten minutes later you are most of the upperclassmen are are a freshman. You say things like and tht·n there would be holes in on their necks. You talk to them but forced to ask directions to the eating Lucky Charms and Captain "Gee, what's that smell?" and the walls. "lltis means something they won't admit to being lost. You bathroom because it's not where Crunch. You try to take an apple "Gosh, is that really Allen Pinkett?" hut you're not sure what. won't either. After 45 minutes you you thought it was. back to the dorm but a woman at Savor the moment while it is new. 
Yankovic enjoying life in the weird lane 
Mary Healy 
features editor 

c jams rock 'n' roll tunes on anH an·ordion. He graces the video 
music stage alternately as a warped 
Madonna, a witless Huey Lewis or a 
<.kmcntcd Ml<.·haei.Jack.'ion. And his 
purpose in life? "To slam a stapler 
against the forehead of American 
pop culture." 
Weird AI Yankovlc is stapling away, a' he systematically mangles hit after hit into parodies as weird as rock has evt•r seen. Hi!> efforts have turned Into hits in their own right. and few rock stars worth their salt have been spared. Yankovic is coming to Notre Dame tonight, for a stop on the national tour to sup­port his latest album, Dare to Be Stupid. 
In an interview with an Observer 
reporter, Weird Alt·xplaincd how 
he turned out the way he is now 
after an inauspicious beginning as 
an architt•t·ture student at California 
Polytc<.·hnic in San Luis Obispo. 
"I cat too much broccoli; it warps my brain," said AI, expressing his condolen<.·es for those Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students who consume it in the dining halls. 
Actually, Yankovic's t:areer began as a child, when he learned to play the an·ordion and bt·gan sen· ding in song parodies to the Dr. Dcmento show. "When you play the an·ordion it really docs someth· ing to your emotional stability," said AI. But Dr. lknwnto didn't mind, as "My !Jologna," a parody of the Knack's "My Sharona," bt·came an instant hit. 
After graduating at 16 ao; valedic· torian of his high school, Weird AI perfected his warped style throug­hout college. With the hit "Another One Rides the Bus" (from Queen's "Another One Bites the Dust") his career took off. But his degree in architecture has not gone to waste. "I use it every day ... as a book· mark." he boasts. 
If his career had gone in that direction, he said, he would now be designing "big, accordion-shaped buildings." 
Now 25 and unmarried, Yanko vic said he is enjoying fame and the experience ofplaying live, but that there are not nearly enough women screaming all over him. 
Despite his success, Yankovic's plans fiJr the future are rather 
Yankovic said he is enjoying fame and the experience of playing live, but that there are not nearly enough women screaming over him. 
limited. "I thought I'd go home and take a shower, then maybe get dressed," he confided. Actually, he will be on tour until October and in his Los Angeles home, "All my plants are dead and nobody's fed the dog in months." 
Weird AI contends he has no problem thinking up his master· pieces. "Because of my rwisted mind I listen to songs and think up ways to reword them," he said. In order to make the parody sound as close as possible to the original, he and his producer "take time and care, just listening to it and figuring out what they did." Sometimes the track is sped up or the key changed because "I can't sing nearly as high as Michael Jackson or Madonna," he said. 
Yankovic's most recent send· 
ups poke fun at Madonna ("Like a 
Surgeon"), Huey Lewis ("I Want a New Duck"), and Cyndi Lauper ("Girls Just Want to Have Lunch"). He has also written some ofhis own songs for his albums. One song, "One More Minute," expresses a fond farewell from a lover who's bitter but honest ("I'd rather spend eternity eating shards of broken glass, than spend one more minute with you"). 
Past hits have included "Eat It" from Michael Jackson's "Beat It," "I Lost onJeopardy," spoofing Greg Kihn, and "It's Still Billy Joel to Me." Yankovic also has done four hour comedy specials on MTV and is soon coming out with his autobiog· raphy, "The Authorized AI." He recently finished The Compleat AI, a long-form video that will be sold for home use in September. 
Weird AI will be performing (cavorting?) at Stepan Center tonight at 8 p.m. Tickets, at S3.50 for students and S7 general admis­sion, are still available at the ACC Box Office or at the Student Record Store in LaFortune. 

Weird AI gets a bit carried away with his cutups. 
I 

Sports Briefs 
Senior forward Ken Barlow yesterday was named captain of the Notre Dame basketball team for the 1985-86 season. The Irish will begin play against St.Joseph's (Ind.)on Nov. 22 at the ACC. -The Obseroer 
The ND/SMC Sailing Club will be meeting 
tonight at 6:30 p.m. on the St. Joseph's Lake dock. Anyone who is interested may attend. -The Obseroer 
The ND Women's Cross Country Club will be meeting for practice today and everyday at 4:30p.m. at the main circle. Anyone who is interested may attend. For more information, call Mary Beth at 277-1983,Julia at 283-2720, Nancy at 283-4222 or Kathleen at 283-3873. -The Obseroer 
The ND Windsurfing Club will be giving free lessons for new members today at 4 p.m. on St. Joseph's Beach. Anyone interested in force 4 wind and wave jumping is asked to attend. -The Obseroer 
The ND Women's Softball Club will have a meeting for all new and returningfastpitch players today at 5 p.m. in room 409 Farley. Anyone who is unable to attend should call Marilu at 283-4189.-The Obseroer 
The ND/SMC Gymnastics Club will begin 
practice tomorrow at 4 p.m. at the Angela Athletic Facility. -The Obseroer 
Wednesday, September 4, 1985-page 8 
The ND Squash Club will be meeting tomorrow at 
6:30 p.m. in the Little Theatre in LaFortune. Anyone who is in­terested may attend. Both hardball and softball players are welcome. For more information, call William Mapother at 283-3451. -The Ob­seroer 
200 Michigan football tickets will be offered 
for sale to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students this week. Anyone 
who is interested may sign up for a lottery on Friday between I p.m. 
and 4:30p.m. at the OBUD desk on the first floor of LaFortune. Lot­
tery winners will be posted on Sunday, and each winner will be 
allowed to purchase one or two tickets. -The Obseroer 
A putt-putt golf tournament will be held by 
NVA on Sunday from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. Teams of two players must register ai: the NVA office by tomorrow. Transportation to the putt­putt course in Mishawaka will be provided by NVA, and there will be a $4 charge per team. -The Obseroer 
The Notre Dame soccer team lost the second game of its season yesterday at George Mason, 4-2. Freshmen John Guignon and Joe Sternberg each had second-half goals, but the Irish could not recover from a 2-0 halftiQle deficit. Details on the game, as well as last Sunday's loss at Virginia, will appear in tomorrow's paper. -The Obseroer 
A scuba-diving course is being offered by NVA. Anyone who is interested should attend an information meeting today at 6 p.m. in room 219 ofthe Rockne Memorial Building. -The Obseroer 
A light exercise class is being offered by NVAevery Tuesday and Thursday at 5:10 p.m. in ACC Gym 4, beginning tomorrow afternoon. -The Obseroer 
Conners and Evert Lloyd advance in 
U.S. Open 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK-Jimmy Connors and Chris Evert Uoyd, the two win­ningest players in U.S. Open history, kept alive their title hopes yesterday with hard-fought victories. 
Uoyd, the No. 1 seed who is seeking her seventh women's singles title here, reached the semi­finals for the 15th consecutive year by disposing of tenacious Claudia Kohde-Kilsch of West Germany 6-3, 6-3. Uoyd's next foe will be third­seeded Hana Mandlikova of Czec­hoslovakia, who edged No. 7 Helena SukovaofCzechoslovakia 7-6,7-4,7­5. 
Connors, going for his sixth men's crown, having won last in 1983, stopped Stefan Edberg of Sweden, the No. 11 seed, 6-4, 3-6,6-3,6-4 in a match that was much closer than the scores indicated. 
Connors will face Switzerland's 
Heinz Gunthardt in their quarter­
final match. The other quarterfinal 
pairing in the bottom half of the 
draw will pit No. 7 Yannick Noah of 
France against the winner of last 
night's match between second­
seeded Ivan Lend! ofCzechoslovakia 
and teen-agerJaime Yzaga ofPeru. 

Tb,, Ohsen•er :'llolrt· Damt· offin·. lm dlnl on the third floor of Lal·onuru­Studt·nt Ct·mn. J<Tl'Pl' t·la,,ifinl adn·n""l!( from <J d m until 1 p m. \londa1 throu~h l'rida1· lh<' Ohsert•er ~ainr .\-tan·, olfin·. lot·atnl on rhc third floor of llaggar Colkgt· <.t·ntn. acn·pt" l'la"ifinh from 1.!..~0 p.rn until -~ p.m. ~lon­ua,· though ~ridal' lkadlim· ti>r lll'XI ddl cla"ifktb i' -~ p.m. .-\11 cla"ilkd, must tw prepaid. •·ither in pt'r\on or h1 mail < harge i., 10 t'l'llh pa fin·char~c­
Classifieds 
ll'" er dal'. 
NOTICES 
$tG-$380 WMidy/Up ~~ng Circut.ra! No oo../quotaa! Sincerwly intereeted rulh _.-eddr_.,.,elope: Dept. AM­7CEG. PO Box 830. Woodllock, IL 
6001l8. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TYPING CALL CHIIIa 214-8117 
SAVE $$$ ON YOUR TEXTS!! USED CLASS BOOKS BOUGHT AND SOLO. PRESENT THIS AD AND RECEIVE AN EXTRA $5 OFF OF $50 PURCHASE. PAN!XlRA'S BOQI(S 937 SO. BEND AVE, 233-2342. 
LOlling mocher wil ~t in her home juat nOOh of campua. m-2484. 
GAY? LESBIAN? OR JUST UBERAL AND OPENMINOEO? If you we in­tereated in being a pan ol ALTERNATIVE LIFESTYLES Wrilelo: P.0. Box 57 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
HAIRCUTS 3.50-REFERENCE$-CALL BIUX4t00 
Ride needed to Univ-ty o1 Miuouri, Columbia or St. Louie on il-27; return, 9­
29. call 2661, late nighta. 
THE DROUGHT IS NOT OVER RASTA RALlY AGAINST STARVATION MEETS TONIGHT 6:30 PM-tat FLOOR LA FORTUNE 
LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: LL.IIean blue book bag from 
ou~~eNO~oreon8~7oon­
tenta -e black checkbook,Ti 35 cal­cut.lor,gold Crou pen, brown notebook wi~ CCIU,_ achedufe and CCIU... edju81­menl forma, gluaea in a bled< caae,tan Ray Ban cue and other amclea. REWARD offered Ctll JEFF GRIFFIN 288-5352. 
ORTHOOOHTIC IIETAINP found 8/28 
in Admin Bldg. If it fila you it'a youra. Cd 
Brian 23~5n2 to claim. 
....................... .............................. 
REWARD-REWARD-REWARD­
LOST AMETHYST and GOLD BEADED 
BRACELET. GREAT SENTIMENTAL 
VALUE TO ME!! IF FOUND, PLEASE 
CALL GRETCHEN, AT 3299. 
Puu watch 1oe1 in Sou~ diring hal during lunch on Tueaday. If found, P'­cal Mike alt644. High aentimenlal value. $REWARD$ 
Red and blue-· ~· t.O. cardlwe im­portant. P'-cal J.A. x-2060 
LOST Olci brown docQi~ al Dunea on Saturday Golf club at Burl<e G.C. : Haig­Uttra Sand Wedge on t8~ hole Steward$ at2397 

FOUND: Gold chain bracalet outside BP. Call Mary att367. 
LOST!!! 3 KEYS ON COIN PURSE CHAIN. IT'S BlACK AND RELATIVELY NORMAL LOQI(ING. PUUEASE FINO IT FOR ME!! CALL PAULA AT 3570 IF FOUND. 
FOUO: WATCH in Flenner. Calt068 and deaaibeit. 
LOST-gold Tiaaot watch with brown band (broken). If found, catlt326oo I can get to cluaontime. 
LOST: black tape cue with collection of caMHea and a radio adaptor . If found, call Kathy al283-3690. 
KEYS AND SMC 1.0. LOST-ST. LOUIS STREET AREA IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 284-402t. 
lm••••••~•~•~•••~•~~~mm••l
APARTMENT FOR RENT PERFECT FOR GRAD. STUDENT. t-t/2 BEDROOM. ALL UTILITIES. STOVE AND REFRIG FURNISHED. EASY WALKING DISTANCE TO CAMPUS. ONE YEAR'S LEASE. NO PETS DR CHILDREN. $275/MONTH. $200 DAMAGE DEPOSIT. REFERENCES REQUIRED. CALL232-1405 DAYS; 2n­015t EVENINGS. 
Private entrance, two room furnished, utititiea paid. Call mornings 288-0955. 
EFF.APT.cloae to campua.Kitchen,balh,watk in cf.234-6647 
WANTED 

wanted 2 gu to any home gamea caH 272-349t 
COMPUTER RETAIL STORE NEEDS STUDENTS, HOURS FLEXIBLE PART TIME $3.35 HOUR 2n-5026 ASK FOR RAY 
Need ride lo TERIIE HAUTE any weel<enda or break. Calf Tom xt545 nighta. 
DELIVERY PERSON WANTED. MUST HAVE OWN CAR PART-TIME EVENINGS. APPLY IN PERSON RICCO'S OLOE HOUSE PIZZERIA, t30 DIXIEWAY NO.,ACROSS FROM BIG C LUMBER. 
NEED RIDE OR RIDERS TO BUFFALO. NY LEAVING 9/6 AND RETURNING 9/8 CALL ANNIE AT 4012 
Need ride or ridera to tlinoia State Univer­aity. Leave Friday, Sept. 5~ return Sun­day Sept. 7~. CdJohnat2153 
ATIENTION: NOTRE DAME AND HOLY CROSS STUDENTS POSITONS OPENED MONDAY, WEDNESDAY. AND FRIDAYS 11AM TO t:30 PM. APPLY IMMEDIATELY AT ST. MARY'S DINING HALL EOE. 
NO Prof. INks reaponaible student to help with houaewor1<, erranda one tuM or two half daya a week. 3 bloc:ka from campua. $25.00. Ext. 7659 or 52t2. 
MODELS WANTED: NO-SMC STU­DENTS NEEDED FOR WOMEN'S FAS­HION PHOTOGRAPHY. SIZES-tO. DAY RATE ft EXPENSES. 232-4944 FOR APPT. 
liMYIITIER WANTED for profeuor'a two young children. Occasional afler­noona, evenings and w-enda. Ten minute drive from campua. Cllll 288-6428 eveninga 
FOR SALE
I~--------------~ 
TYPEWRITER: small portable electronic. Cell5435 daya;256-t3t2 eve. 
62 VALIANT, REBUILT ENGINE, CALIF CAR-SOLID BODY, STEEL RADIALS MANY NEW PARTS, $750 OR BEST OF­FER, 287-7400 OR 239-6226 
FOR SALE tO IN B&W TV ONE YEAR OLD3240 
FOR SALE: 2 matching -pr..da $50 
2600 

STEREO EQUIPIIENTII Diacounl Pricea, Over 50 Major Branda, FuN Warrantee, VISA/MASTER. Calf SCOTI: 213-2CII8 
FOR SALE, ONE WAY TICKET TO Lt MACGARTHER AIRPT.. GOOD UNTIL t2 OCT.. CALL 4068. 
TICKETS 
WIUING TO TP.AOE LSU, MISS, ARMY NAVY FOR MSU. CALL SCOTI t924. 
········································ 
I DESPERATELY NEED 4 MICHIGAN STATE TICKETS -WIUING TO NEGOTIATE ON PRICES. CALL ANN MARIEAT284-4159. 
NEED MICHIGAN STATE TIX BADLY! CALL MIKE ]288-5355 
PLEASE HELP! I N~-~~--~--~:~:~-~~ THE ARMY GAllE OCT.11 AND I G.A.'a TO IISU OA lllllfllfPPf. IF YOU CAN HELP, PLEASE CALL IIEL AT3433. 
Need 1 or 2 Mich St Tix. Cal BiH 35t5. $$ nooblecl. 
HELP! HELP! deaparately need one or two ticketa to MSU game coat no iuue! Call Dave at 2048 
t have Michigan and Mich. St. bcketa. Be8t offer. Calf Eric t527 
I need 2 and/or 4 GA'a tor Michigan State aaaoon aa poilslble. Cell Mike att806 
Need two tix to Army game for Iaika Wit­ting to pay good money. Calf t560. 
NEED MSU TICKET BAD CALL ANDY 272-6783 
2 mich. state tix. Beat offer. beax arts poeler wanted. Mike 3380 
Need 4 Gil'S FOR ARMY GAME!' PLEASE CAU 272--4540 
$$$NEED AT LEAST 2 MSU TIX. MUST KNOW BY FRI NilE. CALL LYNN 283­4t2t 
Will pay your next aemeater's book biM (or name your price) for 4 Or 5 USC G.A.a. Celt 4tt2. 
DESPERATELY NEED MICHIGAN STATE TIX FOR LITILE SIS. URGENT! IF I DON'T GET THESE MY PARENTS WIU NEVER FORGIVE ME! TRADE FOR OTHER HOME GAMES OR MANY $$$. CALL JOHN ]1t58. 
································································ 
NEED 4 TICKETS TO U.S.C, 2 TICKETS TO MISS. AND t TICKET TO MICH. ST.. DESPERATE!!! CALL COUECT (914) 338-tt20. ASK FOR JIM OR SAUY. 
NEED 20R4 MICH ST Gila Will Pay$$ Call Jim 283-3527 
DESPERATELY NEED THREE TICK· ETS TO THE MICHIGAN STATE GAME!! 284-4099 
NEED 1 TICKET FOR MICHIGAN STATE, 2 FOR SOUTHERN CAL, CALL TOM H AT3t75 
DON'T SEU YOUR MICHIGAN STATE TIX TO SOMEONE ELSE SEU THEM TOME! I'M DESPERATE. CALL BOB AT t248. THANX. 
DESPERATE! I NEED 10 GA'S FOR NAVY GAME!$$$ PLEASE CAU JULIE 284-43t7. 
DESPERATELY NEED 3 MICHIGAN STATE TICKETS! CALL JENNY 284· 5405! 
PERSONALS 
tntereated in Inter-Varsity Christian Fel­lowShip? C8ll Sheila t985, Kevin t883 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 3t N., t BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 

AUDITIONS SHENANIGANS AUDI­TIONS SHENANIGANS AUDITIONS SHENANIGANS Notre Dame·a Singing and Dancing Enaemble ia looking for fun and talented individuals to fiN the following poeitions: Srngera, Dancers. Technicoen, P.hotographer, Pianiat, Baaa Guitariat, IN­FORMATION MEETING Thureday, Sept. 
5. 7:00pm Satellite Room, 2nd Floor O'Shag AUDITIONS Monday, Sept. 9. 
6:00 -? Tour plana include Boeton, Chicago, Pittsburgh, Atlanta, San Diego AUDITIONS SHENANIGANS AUDI­TIONS SHENANIGANS AUDITIONS SHENANIGANS SHENANIGANS AUDI­TIONS SHENANIGANS AUDITIONS SHENANIGANS AUDITIONS 
BAHAMAS! Two ticketa at Nvings. Catl 4033 or 4055 NO. A chance you shouldn't paaaup!! 
thanks for the help lui spring St Jude 
DOC PIERCE'S rs accepting applicationa for part-time load server. Must be 2t. Ex­perience in food or liquor service helpful. Apply in peraon 3-5 p.m. t20 N. Ma1n, Mishawaka. 
WARNING: IF YOU RECEIVE A CALL FROM ED GAUSMAN OR GRACE 2t5 AND YOU HAVEN'T MET ME THEN YOU AND I ARE HAVING A JOKE PLAYED ON US. I DO NOT HAVE YOUR MAIL. SO LAUGH AT THEM BUT DON'T BELIEVE I'T. 
PLEASE HELP-I NEED 3 G.A.'S TO THE ARMY GAllE OCT. tll AND ll G.A.'S TO IISU OR lllllfllfPPt. IF YOU CAN HELP, CAU IIEL AT 3433. 
SenioreiSeniors!Seniora! Ice Cream So­ciat:Only 25centa;Thuraday, Fieldhouae Malt 7pm.Be There!Only 25centa! 
Nlllor aclvlaory council meeting 6pm Hayes-Healy Aud. Tonight Sepi.4;Aif Semora Welcome' 
SENIORS! Take your Prof. to Lunch!Senior/Facutty Lunch:Friday SEPT. 6.Aiumni-Senior Club. 
Thank you St. Jude for answering my summer prayers. 
YDAY, NICE PICTURES! 
I'VE GOT SOMETHING EVERYBODY WANTS! 4 TIX TO SEE THE BOSS AT INDY SEPT. 6. MAKE ME AN OFFER I CAN'T REFUSE ... CALL LARRY AT 4t34 
ZIMM(PAL), JAMIE, PETER(BUD), CHESTER, MUGGA, ZOO, POWER­DOG. AL-FRIDAY 5PM AUGUSTA-BE THERE! FROM "GEL" AND "BABE" 
SENIOR CLASS Great America Trip,Sat.Sept.7-SPACES AVAILABLE!Motor Coach Transport and Park Entry for only $20.Bring payment to South Dining Hat! TONIGHT during din­ner hours or call 239-5136 or Mark at 3669. 
Anne Marie, What did you My? Go jump in the take without what? You know who ... 
IRISH GARDENS 
IRISH GARDENS IRISH GARDENS 
Yea' We are open for bullin ...' 
Come in and buy a flo-for a friend 

We are toc.ted in the basement Of La 
Fortune 

BUT wa do have a new door, 10 come'" 
through the Huddle 

We're looking forward to ll8tllng you 
aga;n!! 

Remember we are your ONE-STOP­
FLOWER-SHOPII , 
IRISH GARDENS IRISH GARDENS 
IRISH GARDENS 
Thanks St. Jude!!!! 

.. aa my hand moved toward the control button, he touched me more than once. THE FEVER-alive aga;n in 85! 
Wordproceuing Calf Dotorea 2n-604s 

Jeff Herman--How waa your aummer? You'reintheNmecoreCCJUraeaaaoneot my best friends. He !laid you hardly ever say anything. He aliO NJd ~at you're fairly intelligent, which I alrMdy knew. Love. Your Secret Admrrer. 
Does anyone have the bc><lQ UNDEMTANDINQ GENETIC. 3RD ED or LAW AMONG NAnONa: AN fNTIIG­DUcnON TO PUaUC INTEIINA­
nONALLAW,tl81,andnotwant~em? 
I will pay you to take them off your hands. Call Mary at t367. 
Thereae, Congratulationa on making the aoccer t..m! I know you are but what am I? The road back from SMC ia too long and too lonely. Let's have a good year. Keebler 
Burning down the houae in N. Quad Mon. night-~e "Night Litea." 

VOLLEYBALL lor LOGAN VOL­LEYBALL lor LOGAN VOLLEYBALL lor LOGAN Sign up TONITE at dinner in the dining hab-$6.00 entry lee/team 
TO FOUR GORGEOUS HUNKS:IIKE, Till, JAIIIIER, AND, OF COUME, IIICH; THANKS FOR SHOWING US HOW EXCITING A SUNDAY NIGHT CAN BE. LOVE, THE "WOMEN". 
KEYS AND SMC ID LOST -ST. LOUIS STREET AREA IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 284-402t 
SCHANNE! SCHANNE! LONG LIVE LANGSTON AND THE HI MAKE A LIST... 
To BOt South: We have HIGH ASPIRA­TIONS for the coming achoof year. BEWARE!!! The Ktingon huntera are on the looee, and we wiN find you ... whether it be by bicycle, or by MG!!!! Signed: Amy. Jennifer, and Suzanne P.S. Hey Denny, where is everyone? They're out of their h-!11 
The Observer Wednesday, September 4, 1985 -page 9 
HEY NOTRE DAME 
DARE TO BE STUPID wiTH N,c

~'4-.0

~\.'{ ~ TICKETS 
.."'c..\~Q r $7.50 GENERAL ADMISSION "t"'(_\~ $3.50 WITH STUDENT J.D. 
WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 4th, AT STEPAN CENTER 8:00p.m. 
AVAILABLE AT THE ACC BOX OFFICE AND STUDENT RECORD STORE--LAFORTUNE 

Soviets beat U.S. in basketball 
Associated Press 
KOBE, Japan-A last-second long shot gave the Soviet Union a 96-93 victory over the United States for the men's basketball title yesterday, while the Americans had their best day in track and field, winning three gold medals in the World University Games. 
The Soviets won a total of four golds for the day -including water polo, men's epee team fencing and the women's 800-meter run, but Japan stopped them in the men's vol­leyball final. 
Down two sets to one, Japan recovered for a 15-8, l 0-15, 12-15, 15-17, 15-8 victory before a crowd of about 6,000, mostly ecstatic Japanese rooters. 
North Korea blanked Uruguay 1-0 for the soccer gold, scoring on a header that bounced off a Uruguayan defender into the goal. 
With nine gold medals left to be decided on the University Games' final day, today, the Soviets led the standings with 77 medals, including 41 golds. The United States had 61 medals, including 21 golds, and Japan, China and Cuba each had six golds . 
In the last games In 1983, the Soviets had 11 5 medals including 59 golds and the United States had 53 medals including 12 golds. 
In another highlight on the track yesterday, Cuba's Silvia Costa won the women's high jump with a Uni­versiade record of 6 feet, 7 inches, breaking the old mark of 6-6 set by Tamara Bykova of the Soviet Union in 1983. 
For the Americans, Mike Ramos' won the demanding two-day, 10­event decathlon, Cathy Branta and Kathy Hayes placed 1-2 in the women's 3,000 meters and Cletus Clark won the men's 11 0-meter high hurdles, with teammate Keith Talley finishing third. 
Ramos, of Missoula, Mont., over­took first-day leader Michael Neugebauer of West Germany with strong performances in the pole vault and discus. He finished with 8,071 points to 7,971 for Valter Kyulevet of the Soviet Union. Neugebauer ended up third with 7,895. 
Branta, of Madison, Wisconsin, won the women's 3,000 in 9 minutes, 2.75 seconds, with Hayes, of Eugene, Oregon, just behind In 
9:02.92. Angela Chalmers of Canada was third in 9:03.19. 
In the Soviet triumph in the women's 800 meters, Nadezhda Zvyagintse edged Romania's Cris­tieana Cojocaru, 1 :58.59 to 1 :59.09. 
Bulgaria's Ginka Zagorcheva won the women's 100-meter hurdles In 
12.71 seconds, with Soviet runner Nadezhda Korshunova second . 
Top seven retain spots in AP poll 
Associated Press 
The nation's top seven teams, none ofwhich has played a game this season, retained their positions yes­terday in the first regular-season As­sociated Press college football poll. 
Defending national champion Brigham Young jumped from lOth place to eighth after opening with a victory over Boston College. 
Top-rated Oklahoma, which doesn't get under way until Sept. 28, received 27 of 60 first-place votes and 1,049 of a possible 1,100 point!> from a nationwide panel of sports writers and sportscasters. 
Auburn, which entertains South­western Louisiana· on Saturday, received 10 first-place votes and 948 points, followed by Southern Methodist with two firsts and 834 points. The Mustangs play host to Texas-El Paso on Saturday night. 
Iowa retained the No. 4 spot with five first-place ballots and 810 points while Florida, which visits Miami, Fla., on Saturday night, received two firsts and 735 points. One first-place vote went to sixth-place Southern California, which received 715 points. The Trojans visit Illinois on Saturday. 
Seventh-place Maryland, which plays host to Penn State this weekend, received three first-place ballots and 701 points. 
BYU, after defeating unranked Boston College 28-14 In the Kickoff Classic, received three first-place votes and 691 points. 
Rounding out the Top Ten are Ohio State, with 645 points, and Nebraska, with 640. Nebaska enter­tains Florida State on Saturday In a national television (ABC-TV) game. Ohio State and Nebraska were eighth and ninth in the preseason rankings. 
The Second Ten is composed of the same teams as the preseason poU except for Florida State, a 38-12 win­ner over Tulane. The Seminoles moved from 19th place to I 7th, ahead of South Carolina and Penn State. South Carolina was the only other Top Twenty team In action over the weekend. The Gamecocks crushed The Citadel 56-17. 
The Second Ten consists of Il­linois, Washington, ISU, Notre Dame, Arkansas, Oklahoma State, Florida State, South Carolina, Penn State and UCLA. 
•• Apple Computer, Inc. & University of Notre Dame announce a 
WELCOME BACK MAC FEST 
LaFortune Student Center Thursday, Sept. 5 and Friday, Sept. 6 
9:00 a.m. 5:00 p.m. 
There will be Macintosh computers 

Stop .. zn to see what's new for Macintosh! 
This ad 'Vas created using MacDraw and the Apple LaserWriter LaserPrinter 
Wednesday, September 4, 1985-page 10
The Observer
r 
! Gary Carter hits three home runs 
'I I I 
to lead New York over San Diego 
Assodated Pre118 
SAN DIEGO · Gary Carter hit three home runs and drove in six runs through the first five innings last night in helping the New York Mets take a 7-0 lead over the San Diego Padres. 
Carter hit a two-run homer in the first inning off Dave Dravecky and connected for a solo shot off Dravecky in the fourth. 
In the fifth inning, Tom Paciorek and Keith Hernandez singled with one out off Dravecky. Carter then hit an 0-2 pitch from reliever Luis Deleon into the left field seats for his third home run ofthe game and a 7-0lead. 
It marked the second time in Carter's career that he had hit three home runs in a game. Carter now has 23 homers this season. 
Carter is the fifth player in the major leagues to homer three times in a game this season. Teammate Darryl Strawberry, Baltimore's Eddie Murray, Seattle's Gorman Thomas and Texas' Larry Parrish have also accomplished the feat. 
Carter also became the fifth Met player to hit three home runs in a game, joining Strawberry, Dave Kingman, Claudell Washington and Jim Hickman. 
Twins 4, Brewers 3 · 
MINNEAPOUS · Kirby Puckett's sacrifice fly tied the score and pinch­hitter Dave Engle delivered a run­scoring single as the Minnesota Twins scored twice in the seventh inning last night to beat the Mil­waukee Brewers 4-3. 
Engle singled home Tim Teufel, who had reached second base on a sacrifice bunt that Danny Darwin, 7 · 16, threw away for an error. Mark Salas had led off the inning with a single and eventually scored on Puckett's sacrifice fly. 
Steve Howe, 2·3, the fourth Twins pitcher, pitched 3 2/3 hitless in­nings for the victory. 
Cardinals 6, Reds 4 

ST. Louis . Pinch-hitter Brian Har­per's two-run, two-out double snapped a seventh inning tie last night and led the St. Louis Cardinals past the Cincinnati Reds. 
The victory, onlythe second in six games for the· Cardinals, kept them in first place in the National League East. 
Reds player-manager Pete Rose did not play. He needs six hits to break Ty Cobb's all-time record of 4,191. 
With the score 4-4, Cesar Cedeno 

led off the bottom of the seventh 
with a single against Tom Hume, 2-4. 
The hit made a winner of Jeff Lahti, 3·2. 
Phillies 4, Giants 3 

SAN FRANCISCO · Ozzie Virgil opened the 13th Inning with his 18th home run of the season to lift the surging Philadelphia Phillies to their sixth straight victory, a 4-3 win over the San Francisco Giants yester­day. 
Virgil's game-winning blast, on a 

2·1 pitch from Greg Minton, 3·4, 
bounced high off the foul screen in 
left. 
Rookie Dave Shipanoff, 1-0, 

posted his first major league victory 
by pitching one inning and Fred 
Toliver worked the 13th for his first 
save. 
The paid crowd of 1,632 was the 

lowest at Candlestick Park since 
1,033 watched the Giants play the 
Houston Astros on Sept. 14, 1977. 
Astros 8, Cubs 7 
CHICAGO · Pinch-batter Bill Doran's suicide squeeze bunt in the lOth inning scored Denny Walling from third base Tuesday to lead the Houston Astros to an 8· 7 victory over the Chicago Cubs. 
Mark Bailey opened the IOth with a single off George Frazier, 7-6, but was forced at second by Walling. Burt Pena singled to left to send Wal­ling to third. 
Reliever Dave Smith, 8-5, was the winner. 
Braves 2, Pirates 0 
PITTSBURGH Rookie Joe Johnson combined with relievers Zane Smith and Bruce Sutter on a five-hitter last night as the Atlanta Braves beat the Pittsburgh Pirates 2­0. 
Johnson, 3·0, allowed leadoff singles to Joe Orsulak in the fourth inning and R.J. reynolds in the seventh. He left the game after Johnny Ray followed with a flyout to the wall in the seventh. 
Atlanta scratched out two runs in 
the seventh. Bruce Benedict led off 
with a single against Jose Deleon, 2­
16, and Milt Thompson's single sent 
pinch runner Andres Thomas to 
third, with Thompson taking second 
on the throw. 
Yankees 6, Mariners 3 
NEW YORK· Phil Niekro won the 
298th game of his career, pitching 
seven shutout innings before 
needing relief help in the eighth 
Tuesday night as the New York 
Yankees beat the Seattle Mariners 6­
3. 
The Yankees, with their fourth 
straight victory, moved within 3.5 
KC's Smith will testify in drug case 
PITTSBURGH · Lonnie Smith of the Kansas City Royals is expected to be the first witness to testify today and the key to the federal govern­ment's case, in the cocaine traffick­Ing trial of Curtis Strong, a former Philadelphia Phillles clubhouse caterer, The Associated Press learned yesterday. 
Smith is expected to be called this afternoon and Keith Hernandez of the New York Mets will be called next to testify, said sources close to the case who requested anonymity. 
Smith has confessed to several years of cocaine abuse and testified under a grant of immunity before a federal grand jury that indicted Strong and six other Pennsylvanians on drug trafficking charges in May. 
Smith recently told The New York Times that he identified his drug supplier to both the FBI and to the Pittsburgh grand jury. Smith under­went drug rehabilitation in 1983, the year after he was a key member of the world champion St. Louis Car­dinals. 
"We're going to find out if a jury 
will believe the testimony of 
junkies," said Strong's attorney, 
Adam Renfroe, Jr., who would not 
identify the "junkies." 
Smith's testimony is expected to 
follow completion of the jury selec­
tion which took most of the court's 
time yesterday and opening remarks 
by Renfroe and U.S. Attorney). Alan 
Johnson. 
Smith is one of I 0 current and 
former players identified last week 
by Johnson in court documents as 
prospective witnesses In the case, 
which could take more than a week 
to try. 
Royals spokesman Dean Vogelaar 
said Smith would miss the Royals' 
home game yesterday night against the Chicago White Sox because of his court appearance, but hoped Smith would be back in uniform tonight. 
Mets Manager Dave Johnson said Hernandez, also a former Cardinal, is expected to "miss a day" because of the Strong case. "We're hoping it's the off day (Thursday)," Johnson said. 
The Mets are currently playing 

the Padres in San Diego. 
Among the other players who 

could be called are Dave Parker of 
the Cincinnati Reds, Rod Scurry of 
the Pittsburgh Pirates and AI Hol­
land of the California Angels. It was 
reportedly on Holland's recom­
mendation that Strong was hired this April as a Phillies caterer until being asked to quit after five games. 
No witnesses were called yester­day, the opening day of the trial, as attorneys spent most of the day questioning 50 prospective jurors. Twelve jurors and four alternates will be chosen. 
Strong, 38, of Philadelphia, is charged with dealing in cocaine 16 times betwe~n 1980 and 1984 on dates when the Pirates of the Na­tional League were playing in Pit­tsburgh. 
At least 12 former or current players testified before the federal grand jury that indicted Strong. Three of the other men indicted have pleaded guilty and face jail terms. 
• ACAP :
• 

ADULT CHILDREN OF ALCOHOLIC PARENTS e 
:Mondays....... 5:30-6:30 pm •
•

• Counseling &Psycholog1col Services Center • : Room 316 •
•

• 
• Does someone significant to you have a driRking •
•

• problem? Does It affect you? Maybe we can help. 
• 

• Call 239-5085 
• 

..................................................S.~O~A:·P.......................................u ........j 
Students on Alcohol Problems i 
Meeting on Mondays at 4 :oo pm. 
Counseling &Psychological Services 
Center rm. 316 
Do you have some ideas about alcohol? 
Would you like to share them with other 
students who may also be like you? 
Call 239-5085 or stop by C.&PSC. (Monl
.............................................................................................................................. 
I 

Baseball Standings 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Eat  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
St. Louis  79  50  .612  - 
New York  78  52  .600  1.5  
Montreal  71  59  .546  8.5  
Philadelphia  64  66  .492  15.5  
Chicago  63  67  .485  16.5  
Pi118burgh  41  88  .318  38  
Waet  
Loa Angeles  75  53  .586  - 
Cincinnati  69  61  .531  7  
San Diego  69  61  .531  7  
Houston  62  68  .477  14  
AUanta  56  74  .431  20  
San Francisco  51  79  .392  25  

Yaetwday'ollaeulll Houston 8, Chicago 7, 10 inngo. Philadelphia 4, San Franciaco 3, 13 inng Atlanta 2, Pittaburgh 0 St. Louis 6. Cincinnati 4 New York at Sun Diego, late Montreal at Loa Angelea, late 
games of American League East­leading Toronto, which was idle. 
Niekro, 14-9, extended his con­secutive scoreless-inning streak to I 7 before issuing bases-loaded walks to Dave Henderson and Danny Tar­tabull with two outs in the eighth. 
Dave Righetti relieved Niekro. 
Billy Swift, 4-9, took the loss. 
Royals 3, White Sox 2 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. · Bret Saber­hagen outdueled Tom Seaver and Hal McRae hit a two-run homer last night, leading the Kansas City Royals to a 3·2 victory over the Chicago White Sox. 
Saberhagen gave up seven hits, in­cluding Harold Baines' 16th home run, a solo shot with one out in the ninth. Saberhagen raised his record to 17-5 and tied Ron Guidry of the New York Yankees for most vic­tories in the American League. 
Seaver, winless since he joined the 300-victory club on Aug. 4, sur­rendered six hits as his season record dipped to 12-10. 
AMERICAN LEAGUE  
Eat  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
Toronto  82  49  .626  - 
N-York  78  52  .600  3.5  
Detroit  71  60  .542  11  
Bellimore  68  61  .527  13  
Boat on  63  68  .481  19  
Milwaukee  59  70  .457  22  
Cleveland  47  84  .359  35  
Waet  
California  74  58  .561  - 
KanauCity  71  58  .550  1.5  
oakland  68  64  .515  6  
Chicago  64  66  .492  9  
Minnesota  60  70  .462  13  
Seattle  60  72  .455  14  
Texaa  49  82  .374  24.5  
Y-day'ollaeulll  
Detroit14, California 8  
Oaklond 3, Baltimore 2  
Kanau City 3, Chicago 2  
New York 6, Seattle 3  
Boeton 6, Texaa 4  
MinnNOta 4, Milwaukee 3  

Tigers 14, Angels 8 
DETROIT · Kirk Gibson hit two home runs and two doubles and drove in five runs in four at-bats last night, powering the Detroit Tigers past the California Angels 14-8. 
Detroit roughed up Kirk McCas­kill, 9·1 0, for five runs in the second inning and four more in the fourth. 
Winner Dan Petry, 14-11, was fre­quently in trouble but hung on for five innings. He gave up four runs on five hits, walking four and striking out one. Bob Stoddard pitched the final four innings for his first save. 
A's 3, Orioles 2 
BALTIMORE · Pinch hitter Steve Henderson singled home the tiebreaking run in the eighth inning and Jose Rijo teamed with two relievers on a three-hitter last night to lead the Oakland A's to a 3·2 vic­tory over the Baltimore Orioles. 
Rijo held Baltimore hitless for five 
innings before the Orioles scored 
twice on three hits in the sixth. Steve 
Ontiveros pitched a hitless eighth 
and Jay Howell worked a hitless 
ninth for his 24th save. 

Football Ticket Distribution 
Sophomores and Graduate Students Today Freshmen Tomorrow 
DONALD P. SEYMOUR

PA~ICK F. MURPHY 
201·842·285220Hi71·8850 

"The Only DJ's That Matter, Inc." 
MUSIC FOR ALL OCCASIONS 
.\ 
NOTRE DAME MORRISSEY HALL 

.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, 
: t  tMICHIGAN TICKETS I  
t  Sign up for lottery  t  
:  Friday September 6 1:OOpm to 4:30pmf  
t  OBUDDesk  t  
t  t  
t t  200 Tickets Available 2 tickets/student ID required  t f  
f tt  ' ' t  
t  
:  WINNERS POSTED SUNDAY SEPT. 8 f  
f  ATOBUDDESKGLASSCASE  f  
t  AND AT SAB OFFICES  f  

--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' 
-~~----------------~----­
j
'JI['~~C3L~----------------------------------------~--ed_n_e_s_d_a_y_,s_e_p.te_m
__b_e_r_4_,_19_8_5__·_p_ag_e__l_l 
Zeto 
AND !HAT MeANS WE SOT TO KEEP H,AJ..F 
OF ir!JUR ACCOUNT­IWENTY OOLLARS. 
UNPCffiVNATE"L'r', 'IOU !,JeRE BORN IN MA<r'­
THATS A PIF'TV DOLLAR 
FEE! 

ACROSS 1 Short-tailed rodent 
5 Ariz. Indians 10 Shellfish 14 Having wings 15 Free 16 Fishing ball 17 Barely triumph 19 Leaveout 20 Country 21 Increase 
two-fold 23 Ballerina costume 25 Base runner's 
ploy 26 Comic Johnson 29 Thus 31 Ohloclty 34 Yokel 35 Clamorous 37 Unruly crowd 38-up(con­
fessea) 39 Shocks 40-die 41 "Little le1985 Tribune Media S•"v1ces. Inc 9/4/85 
Women" name Au Rights Reserved Tuesday's Solution 

42 Brands 43 Charles Lamb 5 Puts in seed 
ATLAS.POMPIASPS
44 Savage 6 Charged atom 
R 0 U S T 0 P A H C 0 0 T 
46 Knight or 7 Secure a ship Lttwla 8 Fools 

~J_J_ 

A I R L A iJ H 0 R A 
SCOTTY

48 Ancient 9 Certain grapes kingdom 10 Overcast 
1,.,.._
49 Ardent 1t Where boards 51 Makes sounds are formed? 
C 0 C A S D A R 

of reproach 12 Seed covering 
L E A K E A S E L L U T E 
53 Goes back over 13 Distribute 
A N T I D R E D B I T E S 
.I""'·

56 Legally bound 18 Pronoun 
STENCfts L~
60 Rainbow 22 Unctuous 
IIIIIIG A T E P U C E 
61 Mobile plant 24 Utah range 63 In -of 26 Enola Gay's 
S A F A ~.!-1!!' l l Y·~~/l-
I RAN DHCA~CUTTA
64 Toughen by burden 
F E U D N E R I L A T I N 
use: var. 27 Sculler 65 Kind of jacket 28 Speechless 
T A X I S E E N E R A S E 
Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
''WacoME, COMRIJ/lf, W 

77N6l/NG WITH eXC~MeNT;
1HC MAIN WOI?P-ff?OC£5fiffl6 

1H! .MVIOR HIICI<ef?. f'IJIJJ€5 TO 
~frlmR fOI< 1HE GUJI?t()(JS 

CIITrH WINP IN FCI<VfNT llNri­
flllflY NWSf'llfl@? Of 711€ 

C!flllrlON rF 7HKOW!NG 7l£ 
JOV!a .fOCIIIl!ST 

fUI&SfiiP Of CIJM!WNIST 
l<fflll#t.ICfi: 'PRAVPA'." 

J(}(Jf(fi1Jl/5M INTCJ IJ 6lf.JI?/()(/S 
s~~t[flf_f< <if' 
Pf(lfJUPY. 
Kevin Walsh 

Tarzan contemplates another entry 

Campus 
•8:00 
a.m. · 4:30 p.m. · Exhibition and Sale Study Programs, Hayes Healy Auditorium, of Art Prints, LaFortune Center Ballroom, Sponsored by Foreign Study Programs Sponsored by Office ofStudent Activities 

•6:
1 5 p.m.. Circle K Orientation Meeting, •8:00 . 10:00 p.m.. Ice Cream Social for Center for Social Concerns Notre Dame and Saint Mary's sophomores, 

•6:30 
p.m. • Lecture, "Study Abroad," Dr. Haggar Terrace, Sponsored by Sophomore: Isabel Charles, Director, Notre Dame Foreign Class 


Dinner Menus 

Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Spaghetti/Spiral with Italian Meat Sauce Baked Fish Baked Mushroom Lasagna Cheese Enchilada Broiled Haddock Almadine Beefand Bean Chimichanga Garden Salad Sandwich Broccoli Quiche 
TV Tonight 
7:00p.m. 16 Highway to Heaven !O:OOp.m. 16 Nc:wsCenter 16 
22 BlUy Graham/ Southern California 22 22 Eyewitness News Crusade: 28 Nc:wswatch 28 
28 ABC Movie Special: "Inside: the: Third 46 Calvary Temple: 
Reich" (Part I) !0:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 
8:00p.m. 16 Facts ofUfe 22 CBS Wednesday Night Movie:: 
22 U.S. Open Highlights "Ucense to Kill" 
28 ABC News Nightlinc: 34 Nc:vc:r Too Old
34 National Geographic Special: "Love: Those Trains" 
46 Everlasting Gospel 
8:30p.m. 16 Double: Trouble: ll:OOp.m. 22 CBS Late: Movie:: "Avalanche:" 46 Rc:nc:wc:d Mind 28 Love: Connection 9:00p.m. 16 St. Elsewhere 46 Praise the: Lord 
34 A Walk Through the: 20th Century 11:30p.m. 16 Late: Night With David Lc:ttc:rman with Bill Moyers: "Marshall, Texas; !2:30p.m. 16 All in the Family Marshall, Texas" l:OOp.m. 22 Nightwatch 
46 Lc:sea Alive 2:00a.m. 46 Independent Network Nc:ws 
Cigarettes aren·t good for your friends. Adopt afriend who smokes and help ·em quit today. You'll both be glad tomorrow. 

n 
Ll.l SINGERS DANCERS TECHNICIAN DRUMMER , 
~··········.......~ 
CANCER.

~ shenanigans §
Sacred Heart Parish Needs: 
NOT
Singers 

2 ~
Notre Dame's 
~ Singing and Dancing Ensemble ~ 
KNOWING

S ~
INFORMATIONAL MEEnNG
9:30 Mass 

Q:: Thnndey;Sept. 5 I:XI 
THE RISKS 

Men and woman for our SATB Choir 
< 7:00 P• • ~).
I SeteUhe Roo•, 2nd Floor ~ "--O'Sbeg • 
IS YOUR

10:45 Mass 2 Men to fill our Super Combo 
< AUDIDONS • ~ 
GREATEST 

ti) Mondey, Sept. 9 : );! .... 6:00p•-? ~ 
RISK.

~ ~ 
~ Be part oftlae action! Tour Boston. '""I Call Parish Office 239-7511 
~ 

Q.; Chicago. PlU.burgh. San Diego. Atlanta • 
66 Remnants 67 Painter of dancers 68 An Andrews 
DOWN 1 Chessman 2 Inter­3 Argot 4 Judges 30 Woo 32 Ancient Gr. 
district 33 Nautical word 36 Map feature 39 Chose 40 Moved up and 
down 42 Heroic narrative 

45 Birthplace of 
St. Paul 47 John Foster­50 Get together 
with school 
chums 52 Cravat 53 Irritate 
9/4/85 
54 Ireland 55 Complacent 57 Kindof 
particle 58 Novelist Uris 59 Novelist 
Ferber 62 Bikini part 

-------~-----------------------~--­
~· 
l I 
i 
i S~orts 

~ Obocrver/FUc Photo 
for the national championship. Freeby's season predictions appearat right. 
Freeby says that noPac-1 0 team will be a contender 
ND students take back seat 
to alumni for away game tix 
ByPHILWOLF 
Assistant Sports Edttor 
On Friday afternoon between and 4, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will have the opportunity to enter a lottery for the right to pur­chase tickets to the Irish football team's game at Michigan on Sept. 14. This will be the only chance this year for students to purchase tickets for an away game through the Uni­versity. 
The lottery will be held at the Om­budsmen desk on the first floor of LaFortune. Winners will be posted by the desk on Sunday. 
Atotal of6000 seats in Michigan's 101,701-seat stadium have been all­ocated to Notre Dame, and 200 of those tickets will be sold to students. The Irish also have access to 5000 seats in each of the other stadiums the team will visit this season, but no tickets for any other away game will be sold to students. 
According to Notre Dame Ticket Manager Mike Bobinski, it has been a common practice in recent years to allocate to the students 200 tickets to a relatively close away game. The remainder of the tickets for away games are provided for alumni. 
The logic behind this allocation process is that students have priority for the home games, so the alumni are given their shot to see the Irish when the team is on the road. 
"The general philosophy has al­ways been that on our campus, stu-
Golfers will perform at annual tourney 
By ED JORDANICH 
Sports Writer 
Another Notre Dame tradition continues today with the first round ofthe Notre Dame Open at the Burke Memorial GolfCourse. 
Varsity golf coach and tourna­ment director Noel O'Sullivan says he expects 75 participants in this year's tourney, one of the largest fields ever in its more than 40-year history. O'Sullivan also predicts the winner of the Open will come from among his return­ing varsity letter winners. 
Summer preparations by returning golfers should become apparent in the 72-hole stroke play tournament,which will be evaluated by O'Sullivan, who is starting his 14th year as Irish golf coach. 
"While an unknown rarely wins it, the tournament still gives any undergraduate on campus, male or female, the chance to post a good score and get noticed," he said. "It is also an ex­cellent opportunity for freshmen to be recognized and evaluated." 

The competitors will com­plete the first two rounds of the Open around their class schedules by Saturday, playing in threesomes grouped according to handicap. The final two rounds, to be completed bet­ween Sunday and next Wednes­day, Sept. 11, will have new threesomes based on the players' 36-hole totals. 
The eight-day tournament provides for rain delays and scheduling problems. Gold, sil­ver and bronze medallions will be awarded to the three finishers with the lowest totals. 
dents get first crack at tickets," Bobinski says. "Every student that wants to cango to every home game. There is absolutely no restriction on students for home games. 
"With away games, we have tradi­tionally reserved that for the alumni, for them to get a shot to see the team near their hometown." 
For the three away games on Notre Dame's schedule this year that are within reasonable traveling dis­tance from South Bend, 16,000 tick­ets were allocated to the University. In addition to the 6000 tickets for the Michigan game, Notre Dame also has 5000 tickets each for the Purdue and Penn State games. The number of alumni applications for tickets far exceeds the number available. 
Bobinski says that 6224 alumni applications for 12,447 tickets to those away games were turned down. In addition, 7941 applica­tions, for a total of 15,882 tickets, to three home games -Michigan State, Army and USC -were rejected. 
With . such an overwhelming demand for tickets from Notre Dame alumni, Bobinski says that it is unlikely that students ever will have a chance for many tickets to away games. He says that in the future it may be possible, however, for stu­dents to receive up to 200 tickets for two games in those seasons -such as this year's -in which two close away games are scheduled. 
"The one-game-a-year deal was working out all right when we had Purdue and Michigan State in alter­nating years," Bobinski says, "but when Michigan came into the picture, that kind of threw a wrench into the system because that was another relativelyclose away game." 
The number oftickets the Univer­sity is granted by its opponents usually is set at 5000. The Irish provide 5000 tickets to each of the teams that plays in Notre Dame Stadium, which seats 59,075. That number has been standard for most schools for years, Bobinski says. 
Wednesday, September 4, 1985-page 12 
College Football Predictions 1985 
Chuck Freeby 
Irish Items 


Hello again, everybody! 
Do not clip and save this column. Reacl it, understand it quickly, 
then burn it. The contents may self-destruct before you know it. 
Such is the case with any article which tries to predict college 
football's national champion. However, this isn't just another prog­
nostication. 

We're going to follow through the process together, step-by-step, so you can see the method ofmy madness. At the end, you'11 get your chance to make your own prediction and we'll see ifyou should be writing this column (which will more than likely be the case). 
First, let's get rid ofany teams in exceptionally weak conferences 
and certain independents. That means you can wave goodbye to any 
team in the Mid-American Conference, the Missouri Valley Con­
ference, the Pacific Coast Athletic Association and the Ivy League. 
None of those schools have come close to winning a national title 
since the flag had 48 stars. 
Secondly, the national champion won't come from a significantly 
strong conference, either. Playing too many good teams week after 
week is bound to bringabout at least one or two losses, and that's too 
many. So forget about any team from the Pac-10, the SEC, and the 
Southwe_st Conference. They'll be in contention, but they won't win. 
What's left for now? The Big Ten, you say? Well, remember all 
those Ohio State-Michigan games in the '70s to decide who goes to 
the Rose Bowl with ashotat the national title? Ask yourselfwhen was 
the last time one of those teams actually won the national title. I 
hope you're not in a hurry because you have to go back to 1968 to 
find it. The Big Ten's hopes aren't any brighter in 1985. 
That leaves the ACC, the Big Eight, and the WAC. Well, the ACC 
has Maryland and Clemson, and that's about it. Virginia and Georgia 
Tech are nice, but so are house plants. As for North Carolina, Wake 
Forest, N.C. State and Duke, it's best to wait .until basketball season. 
In the Big Eight, Nebraska and Oklahoma are still around, which is 
the good news. Oklahoma State has hope of being a top-20 team as 
well, but isn't in the same class. Otherwise, the rest of the Big Eight 
looks like it has been struck by a tornado. 
Finally, the WAC is held up by Brigham Young and Air Force. Un­
fortunately, it's brought down by schools like Texas-El Paso and 
Colorado State. Yeah, some real powerhouses there, folks. That con­
ference is about as barten as the Mojave desert. 
In each ofthose situations, the conference champ only has one big 
conference game to worry about. If they win that, all they have to 
worry about is the non-conference schedule. 
So, let's look at strength of schedule. Now you can start weeding 
out independents. You think Notre Dame can get through its 
schedule undefeated? Yeah, right. For the same reason, you won't 
see any independent topping the charts at the end of the year. 
They're all too busy beating up on one another. 
As far as the remaining six teams are concerned, Oklahoma plays 
SMU, Texas and Miami besides Nebraska. No wonder Barry Switzer 
gets arrested for drunk driving. 
That leaves us with five teams and takes us to the next step in the 
process-the curse ofthe national magazine. When was the last time 
Sport, Sports Illustrated or The Sporting News correctly predicted 
the national champion?I don't know, either, but they haven't done it 
once in the 1980s. 
Therefore, there's no reason to expect this perfect track record to .be broken. Maryland was picked No. 1 by Sport magazine, so you can feel the trap door open underneath the Terrapins. 
The next theory is the curse of the defending champion. College 
football is like the NBA because no champion ever repeats. Sorry 
BYU, but your national championship soon will be history. 
We now are left with three teams: Air Force, Clemson and 
Nebraska. Air Force is good, but the Falcons are certainly not a na­
tional championship team. For Clemson ... well, cheaters never 
prosper. Thus, the Irish Items pick for the national champion is 
(tympani roll, please) the Nebraska Cornhuskers! 
This, however, is by no means gospel. This prediction comes from 
the same man who said the Cubs would win the NL East and Miami 
would win the Super Bowl last year. That's why the door is left open 
to you, th·e readers. Send your pick and the reasons for it to: Irish 
Items, The Observer, P.O. Box Q. We'll take a look at them and print 
the results at the end ofthe year. 
Pickofthe Week... For five seasons, the Notre Dame volleyball 
program has toiled in relative obscurity, playing St. Francis and 
IUPU-Ft. Wayne. Those days are over. 
The curtain rises on the 1985 volleyball season Friday night, and 
this time the foe is the highly-ranked Kentucky Wildcats. Art Lam­
bert's squad is young and inexperienced, but they have talent. The 
question is: Can the Irish play and beat the best? 
An answer may come Friday night at 7 p.m. Come out to the ACC 
and see ifthe Irish spikers can get Kentucky fried. 





