----~---------~-~-----~-­
El Salvador -page 5 

\01. XX. :'\0 I 5 1hc imkpt·rHit·nl ~lutknl Ill'\\ ~paper ~tT\ ing rwlrt d.llllt' ami ~ailll mar~·, WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER l l, 19H"i 
Two killed, 25 arrested during riots in England 
~latcd Press 
BIRMINGHAM, England · An angry crowd attacked Britain's law enforcement minister yesterday when he visited the scene of over· night rioting and arson that left two people dead in the country's second-largest city. 
The violence started Monday night In a confrontation between black.' and a policeman and ended with '50 shops gutted by fire. 
It was the worst rioting to hit Britain since 1981, when racial violence raged for two days in parts of London, Liverpool and 

I Manchester in the greatest break· down of law and order in this cen­tury. 
llome Secretary Douglas Hurd visited the rundown district of flandsworth yesterday afternoon to view the destruction and quickly drew a crowd, mostly of black youths, who jeered him. 
As Hurd said "I'm here to listen," bricks and bottles sailed out of the crowd. Hurd was hurried into a police van and drove him away un­hurt, and the crowd pelted two pollee vans in a service station with stonc:-s. 
One van drove away, but the crowd overturned the second and set it ab1aze, sending a new pall of smoke over a neighborhood still smoldering from fires in some 50 

, shops. Pollee said they found two bodies in a burned-out post office on l..ozells Road in the rundown Hand­sworth district. Thc:-y did not im· mediately identify the victims, and they said two other people were missing. Pollee said they had arrested 25 black.'i on charges oflooting. Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher said she was "absolutely appalled" at the destruction and loss of life, and urged pollee and community leaders to work together to prevent further trouble. Pollee:-and most politicians said there was no racial aspect to the flareup. 

Riot-equippedpolice moved into the Hanf5wortb dtstrtct ofBir· 
mingham, England Monday night and Tuesday to combat out­
breaksofrloting. 



Party in Ann Arbor 
By MARY REYNOLDS 
Neu•sStaff 
All students who were lucky enough to get tickets to this weekend's Notre Dame/Michigan football gamt•. and even those who weren't so fortunate, are invited to a "kick-off" party this weekend in Ann Arbor. 
Sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of Ann Arbor, the party will be hdd Friday night from 8 to midnight at th<' St. Patrkks Church Parish Center on Whitmore l..akt·. 
Admission. S I 0 at the door, in­dudes "all the food you can eat," ac­cording to Club Publicity Chairman Jerry McKay. 
Those oflegal drinking age ( 21 in Michigan) will also get "all the beer you can drink" for the cost ofadmis· sion, McKay said. He stressed that 
I.D.'s will be checked at the door. 
Entertainment will include a four­piece band and a bagpipe player. In addi· tion, partygoers will be led in cheers by the Notre Dame cheer­leaders and the leprechaun. Assis­tant Coach joe YonlO will be present. Approximately 600 people are expected to attend the party, said McKay. 


Corrigan to HPC: 'Keep off the field' 
By SCOTT BEARBY State, which will be bringing Assm'lf'nt News Editor security to the upcoming game 
against Notre Dame, according to "Keep off the football field." Corrigan. Director of Athletics Gene Cor­Corrigan said they are appealing 
rigan asked the Hall Presidents' to the student body to stay off the Council last night to relay that re­field. Students may feel that beingon quest to students who flood the the field peps up the team, but Cor­Notre Dame football field during rigan says this is not true. home games. He further added that pepping-up 
Corrigan told HPC that a few inci­the team can take place by cheering dents before games last year led to loudly from the stands. confrontations With security and op­While addressing the HPC, Cor­
posing football players. He said, rigan also informed the group about "This is not what Notre Dame is the new regulation concerning the known for. The incidents are an em· ban of beer kegs in the parking lots barrassment to anyone associated before, during, and after football with Notre Dame." games. The University was Involved 
The situation became particularly in a landmark legal case In which it bad before the game with University was determined that Notre Dame of Miami, Corrigan said. As a result, has responsibility of everyone on Miami Head Football Coach Jimmy the campus and in the parking lots Johnson wrote a letter to the Univer­during games, according to Cor­sity of South Carolina coach telling rigan. him to expect Notre Dame fans to Although Corrigan said he is not push and intimidate his football banning tailgating, there will be players. restrictions on bringing in excessive 
Word ofstudents intimidating op­posing players spread to Michigan see GRASS, page 3 
New 'animal house' to hold research beasts 
By KATHY A. CEPERICH years before losing accreditation for News Staff the research center, added Francis Castelllno, dean of the college of 
Notre Dame will soon have a new science. "animal house." The new Friemann facility con­
The almost-complete addition to tains 33 rooms, Spence:-said, most of Galvin Life Science Center, the which will be used to house Frank M. Friemann Biological research animals: rodents, cats, dogs Research Facility, will house and the various parasites which feed research animals and facilities, ac­on them. cording to Robert Spence, ad· Two will be used as procedure ministrative assistant ofbiology. rooms, where animal blood and 
Research animals were previously tissue can be collected, he said, and located in four rooms in Galvin, but two other rooms will contain equip­USDA and National Institute for ment for performing necropsies, Health guidelines required that the animal autopsies. Universtiy not board any more than There will also be a receiving and one species in each room, Spence a quarantine room, he said. said. Spence explained that species 
The new facility was built to com­isolation rooms are essential in ply with the regulations, he said. raising healthy animals. The University, however, could have delayed construction several see GALVIN, page 4 

New Personnel boss provides 'progressive' touch 
By BOB MUSSELMAN quite state-of-the-art terrninol· have been "re-active," mere "We are a service function," he The ultimate aim, Mullins said, is Assistant Neu•s Editor ogy," he said. Most employees answers to worker discontent, he said, "and sometimes we lose sight to "make the personnel depart· think of personnel solely in terms said. of why we're here. We become al· ment an integral part ofthe Univer­Notre Dame employees can look ofemployment, which is only part most self-serving." sity," while making employees feel 
forward to a progressive "state-of­of the department's purpose, Mul­
Changes at the department have like they are an important part of the·:lrt" pt·rsonnel department, ac­lins said. 
concentrated on increased com· the total process. t:ording to new Personnel Director Mullins most recently worked as 
munication between employer That, he said, has been difficult Rogt·r Mullins. vice president 
and employee and more effective for universities to do. Mullins. 37. assumt·d the posi· of human resources at Elkhart 
management training and develop­While book.'i like "Megatrends" lion in May. fie replaced Tom Bull, General Hospital. 
ment programs, Mullins said. and "In Search ofExcellence" have who resigned as the department "Historically, there has been an "This office can't motivate, but proposed new management tech· ht·ad last year. adverse relationship between we can assist managers in being niques and major corporations 
The new trend in personnel employers and employees," he able to motivate," he said of the such as IBM have implemented the management. Mullins said, em· said. Though he could not com· management training programs. theories, higher learning institu­phasizes human resources. ment on specific problems Notre The department offers personal tions have been slow in changing 
'Ille term "human resources" Dame has had, he said such a development programs which their management philosophies, encompasses other departmental relationship is typical at such in· help employees deal with stress, he said. concerns su<.·h as staff relation~. stitutions. 
nutrition and cigarette addiction. "I think the emphasis at univer­compensalion and benefits, labor The human resources approach 
Personnel has also begun staying sities has been to deliver education law issues and man-power tries to be "pro-active," attempting open during lunch hour, the only to the students," he said, while research, he explained. to solve problems before they time many employees can visit the 
"Actually. 'personnel' is not surface; past personnel strategies office. see MULLINS, page 5



r-----------------------~--------~----~------------­
The Observer Wednesday, September 11, 1985-page 2 
Of Interest 
Timothy Leary will appear at Senior Bar sometime 
tonight. Tomorrow, he will speak to a philosophy course, an English 
course, and on the patio ofthe Fieldhouse Mall from 12:1 0 to 12:2 5 
p.m. There will be live music at the Fieldhouse Mall from 11 :45 a.m. to 12:45 p.m. He will appear as scheduled tomorrow night at 8 in Washington Hall, contrary rumors that the program would be moved Stepan Center. That presentation is sold out. Students-who signed up for tickets Monday must pick them up by 3 p.m. today at the Record store. -The Observer 
All students with a nose for news are en­
couraged to attend an informational meeting for perspective Obser­ver news reporters. Tonight's meeting will be held at Saint Mary's at 
7:30 in room 304 ofthe Haggar College Center. -The Observer 
The Toastmasters' Club will hotd their first meeting tonight at 6:30 in room 223 Hayes-Healy. All students are welcome. -The Observer 
Students interested in Italy' Italian culture, 
Italian clothes or Italian culinary habits are invited to attend the first meeting ofClub Italia tonight at 7:15 in the LaFortune little Theatre. Everyone is invited. -The Observer 
An industry fair in the concourse of Fitzpatrick Hall will be the highlight oflndustry Day, Wednesday, Sept. 25. TheJoint Engineering Council and the Society ofWomen Engineers are spon­soring the fair, which will run from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m. A dinner for engineering students and company representatives will be held in the Monogram Room of the ACC as part of the event. Interested engineers should pick up a registration form from the Engineering Student Center by Friday. The fee for the event will be $5. -The Observer 
Michigan Tickets will be sold by the Student Ac­tivities Board tonight. WVF1 (A.M. 64) will announce the location at 5 p.m. The sale will begin immediately following the announcement. There is a limit of one ticket per person. -The Observer 
A stage lighting and technology presenta­
tion by Notre Dame scenographer Will Neuert will be in the Was­hington Hall scenography lab. The event is sponsored by the department ofcommunications and theater. Admission is free. -The Observer 
WVFI's Campus Perspectives will feature Stu­
dent Body Vice President Duane Lawrence tonight from 1 0 to 11. Anyone with a question or comment for Lawrence may call 239­6400 during tonight's program. -The Observer 
The first Health Advisory Council 
r 
meeting will be held Wednesday, Sept. II at 4 p.m. in the Infirmary
r Lounge. All council members are required to attend. For informa­
, r tion, contact Robin Goldsmith, 283-4030. -The Observer 

Weather 
Comfortably cool today, so go 

out and enjoy it. It'll probably snow next week. (Knock on wood). Partly cloudy and cool today. High around 70. Mostly clear and cool tonight. Low around 45. Partly cloudy and cool tomorrow. High around 70. 
-AP 

The Obsei'Yel' 

lbe Obeerver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. lbe Obeerver is published by the studentsof the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's CoUege. Subscriptions may be purchased for 130 per year ( S 20 per se· mester) by writing lbe OIMerver, P.O. 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
lbe Obeerver is a member of lbe 

AMocbded Preas. All reproduction 
rights are reserved. 
Today's issue was produced by: 
Design Editor........................ Andi Schnuck Layout Staff.................................... Lee, Rob Typesetters ...........................Jennlfer Bigott 
MarkJohnson News Editor ....................... Bob Musselman Copy Editor.................................)ohn Hines Sports Copy Editor................ Mike Chmiel 
Larry Burke Viewpoint Layout............ Melissa Warnke Features Layout ............ Mark McLaughlin ND Day Editor ........................ Diane Dutart SMC Day Editor.................... Priscilla Karle Ad Design ..................... )eannie Grammens 
Jim Kramer 





Plop plop, fizz, fizz that's what enthusiasm is 
It happens every year, and it all starts with Acitivities Night. 
Hundreds of bright-eyed, curious students, many of them fresh out of high school, wander around Stepan Center and Angela Athletic Facility gathering informa­tion about campus clubs and organizations. 
At every table, enthusiastic club leaders greet the in­quiring students with a smiling face .and a firm handshake. Basic information on the organizations is exchanged and the students move onto the next table, where the process is repeated. 
All of that took place last week. This week, many of those clubs and organizations are moving into the second phase of their recruiting plans: the organiza­tional meeting. 
A typical organizational meeting often resembles a football pep rally. A feeling ofexcitement permeates in the air. The club leader stands up and proclaims this will be .the best year ever for the organization. Countless goals and ideas are dis­cussed. Volunteers spring up for every available posi­
-.· 
the bandwagon. 
In short, enthusiam dis-Solves like an Alka-Seltzer tablet in a glass ofwater. And as that enthusiasm dissolves, so does the number of ac­tivities sponsored by these campus groups. 
Any number offactors can cause this decline in inter­est. To a certain extent, it is simply human nature to become less enthusiastic as the school year progresses. 
But there are probably more factors at play. 
One explanation may be that students misjudge how much time they will be able to devote to an organiza­tion. Activities Night comes during the first week ofthe semester, when assignments are light and exams are non-existent. But when the work load increases, stu­dents often have tore-budget their time in favor oftheir studies. And seniors have to devote their time to job hunting. 
Another problem can arise ifone of the group's first acitivities is not well-attended. Nothing can bring about a drop in enthusiasm like the feeling that the organiza­tion is unpopular. 
pr········R~·~~~·;·~··H·~·i·;···wn· 

' 

Styling 

'<-0~. w 0~ 
See Live Professional Comedians ~ 10 to 12 DAncing After 12 
I531 N. Michigan St.• 
75 c Shots of Peach Schnapps *ALL NIGHT* BRING IN COUPON FOR 1 FREE DRINK
b Phone 233-4957 I&D!
D .........u.-......................................ra 


r-------------------------,
1 Coupon Coupon I 
I FAN SALE I I 30%· 60~ff Fans I
I (while quantities last) I 1 20'' 3-Speed Reg 24.99 -Now 17.991 120" 3-SReed Reg 34.99 -Now 24.991 1 Deluxe 1 11 0" 2-Speed Reg 39.99 -Now 15.991 
I JCPenney I 
University Park Mall 
I

I Coupon Coupon
Mishawaka 

~-------------------------~ 

Keith Harrison News Editor 
A lack ofcommunication can cause an organization's decline as well. Students join groups for a variety of reasons, but a common one is to meet other people and possibly make new friends. Ifonly the people in leader­ship roles get to interact on a regular basis, the group's members may feel unwanted and lose interest. 
Japan Club President Wayne Wennick agrees. 
"What you have to do is build up a family atmosphere where everyone knows each other as early as possible," Wennick said. "If you can do that, then people will be 
motivated easily and make 
time to attend club events." 
Increased communica-

The Saint Mary's chapter of Toastmasters uses a slightly different approach to keep members involved. 
"We have weekly meetings where attendance is re­quired," said President Theresa Hardy. If a member misses more than three meetings in one semester he or she is forced to resign from the chapter, Hardy said. 
"We only do that because we know people have a tendency to lose interest and not come to meetings," she said. "We also want them to get the most from their membership dues." 
Though their methods may differ, most organization leaders are fully aware of the need to fight dwindling student enthusiasm. If they are successful, the dissolv­ing Alka-Seltzer tablet theory will be proved wrong, and the only fizzling heard on these campuses will come from the plop, plop, fizz, fizz, of that hangover remedy. 
Tbe Observer LaFortune office accepts classlfted advertising from 9 a.m. to •:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Saint Mary's office in r.hc Regina Hall bucment II open from aooa to 3 p.m., Monday through friday. 
tion. 
But how long will it last? 
Not very long at all, ifpast trends are to be believed. Call it the dissolving Alka­Seltzer tablet theory. 
Nearly every campus group, from the business and engineering societies to student government and The Observer, starts the year with big plans and oodles of excited volun­teers. But as the leaves start falling off the trees, the volunteers start falling off tion, especially through the use of newsletters, is the way Big Brothers/Big Sisters President John Eustermann will fight dwindling en­thusiasm. 
"I think that when it gets to be exam time, a lot of clubs will only put out one newsletter per month," Eus­termann said. "But that is just the time when the club leaders have to do a little more work, to make sure everyone will stay in­volved." 

The Observer Wednesday, September 11, 1985-page 3 
SMC summer program in Europe sends 100 to London, Rome, Italy 

By KIMBERLY TRENNER 
SeniorStoffReporter 
The Saint Mary's summer foreign study programs turn approximately 100 college students and alumnae into "world travellers." 
Saint Mary's offers London and Rome programs to aU college or uni­versity students, alumnae and friends and relatives ofparticipants. 
"These programs are an ideal combination between both travel­ing and also settling down in some of the major cities in Europe," said An­thony Black, professor of history. "The objective of these programs is to make students aware of all the things they can see." 
"These are not restrictive programs, students have as much free time as they want," said Black. Taking daily walking tours, seeing many of the major attractions and sights, going on day trips, shopping and spending nights on the town are some ofthe things students can do. 
"Students are provided with the opportunity to travel with ~-~her stu­dents who are compatible in age and background," said Black. 
Both the London and the Rome Programs offer students courses for college credit, he said. A maximum ofsix credit hours may be earned in 
Grass 
continuedfrom page 1 
amounts of all alcohol. He added that this situation is not limited to only Notre Dame, as he expects similar rules to go into effect around the country. 
Corrigan stressed that the rule was not directed only toward stu· dents. The rule is directed toward anyone attending a football game. 
The current student ticket allot­ment procedure was discussed in further questioning by the council. Ticket Manager Mike Bobinski and Corrigan said although nothing can be done about the situation this year, they are willing to look into changing the system. 
They added that students will never be able to receive the entire allotment, since alumni have rights to tickets as well. 
The HPC also listened to Maureen Trubac, spokesperson for the campus blood drives. She appealed 

SObering Advice) 
cansaveaI~N Think Before You Dr1nk 
Before You onve 
.....· 
ORGANIZATIONAL ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING FOR 
THE DOME 
the areas of biology, business, his­
tory, music, sociology, speech and 
drama, and modern literature. 
Course work Is integrated with 
the tours and lectures during travel, 
according to promotional literature. 
"It wasn't a leisure trip," said Anne 
Quinn, a senior Communications 
major who traveled with the London 
Program this past summer. "We kept 
up a good pace so that we could see 
the most in the amount of time we 
had." 
Joanne DeLorey, a Saint Mary's senior, traveled with both the Lon­don and the Rome Programs. 
"It was the best two months ofmy 
life," said DeLorey. 
"Its a great way to see Europe for the first time," said Mike Hofman, a Notre Dame senior and art major. "Everything is taken care of for you, such as reservations for hotels and plans for tours, yet you are free to break away from the group at any time you like." 
After traveling with both the Lon­don and Rome programs, Hofm~n went on his own to Capri and Brus­sels. Students are not required to return with the group after the programs conclude. 
Materials describing the trips, available outside Black's office, 346 
to the council for continued support of the program. According to Trubac, last year was one ofthe best periods ever with over 500 units collected. 
Trubac said students on campus have had a need for blood in the past and the community has helped them. She added that students should consider returning the favor and donate blood. 
Michael Vore, chairman of the ideas and issues committee, addressed the council on the up­coming lecture of Timothy Leary. 
Leary, the self-proclaimed "Messiah of LSD," is scheduled to speak Thursday at noon on the west end of the Fieldhoust' Mall. Later, he will lecture at Washington HaU on "High Technology: The 1960's through the 1980's." 
Vore said tickets for the event were distributed yesterday. Since there was an abundance of students who failed to get tickets before supplies ran out, Vore said the lecture will be videotaped so It can be shown at a later date. 
Madeleva Hall, provide Information 
about the programs: 
The London Program begins May 
21 with a ~lght from New York to 
Shannon, Ireland. After six days 
there, students move to Scotland for 
a few days, followed by a two week 
stay In London. 
The trip concludes in Paris on 
June 20th after four days ofsightsee· 
lng. 
Students traveling with the Rome 
Program fly directly to Paris onJune 
15. After five days In Paris, students move to West Germany for several days. 
Nine days are spent traveling 
through the Italian cities of Milan, 
Bergamo, Vicenza, Venice, Ferrara, 
Raveena, Florence, Tuscany, and 
Umbria. The group spends the 
remaining days In Rome and returns 
July 14. 
The cost of both trips covers aU 
air, land, and sea travel, meals, living 
accomodations, and admission to 
many of the museums and other 
sights. 
For further information, students should contact Black In his office or caU 284-4460. An informational meeting will be held for interested students October 14 at 7 p.m. In Car­roll Hall. 
In other business, HPC Chairman Kevin Howard relayed proposed un­dertakings ofstudent government in the coming year. These include: 
•tackling 
the issue of whether to restructure the current student government 

•taking 
action to raise the student activities fee In order to increase stu· dent government projects 

•looking 
at the relationships bet· ween student government bodies and the image the student body has ofgovernment 

•asking 
the Notre Dame Board of Trustees to add a student trustee to their board. This, according to Howard, is a large undertaking, but it can be done. 

•looking 
at the student govern­ment's relationship with the media 

•examining 
dorm life and the role of rectors in the halls 


The meeting closed after Lyons Hall President thanked HPC for their support In their recent charity vol­leyball tournament. According to Cahil, over 80 teams participated, helping to make it a success. 

Don't forget this Wednesday's 
$4.99 speciaL 
Don't let this Wednesday pass without your Wednes­day special from DOMINO'S PIZZA~-a12-lnch, single topping pizza for Just $4.99. It's a great way to enjoy a hot, custom-made pizza and asvemoney. 
And Domino's Pizza Delivers" Free. In 30 minutes or leu, or you get $3 off your order. 
So remember Wednesday ••. and our $4.99 Wednesday special. It's available all eve­ning every Wednesday. Only from Domino's Pizza". 
Call us: 
277-2151 1835 South Bend Ave. Plaza 23 Center 
()H£~11/'"
r/DeA rtOll• 
Our drivers carry less !han $20.00. No coupon 
~~~.J:.~:Urve:',: :~~~~~~~ 
Pizza. Inc. 



DOMINO'S 
PIZZA 
DELIVERS® 

for all those who signed up at Activities Night 7pm WEDS. 3rd floor LaFortune 
The Observer Wednesday, September 11, 1985-page 4 
Unusual talent not traditional fare 
ATLANTIC CI1Y, NJ.-The usual Miss Ainerica talent fare of singers, dancers and piano players will be jazzed up this year when Miss Mic­higan breaks a 4-inch-thick piece of concrete with her foot and walks on broken glass. 
Other unusual talent selections include a comic monologue by Miss Al2ska, clog dancing by Miss South Carolina, down-home fiddle playing by Miss Texas, and presentation of an original commentary on the im­pact of advertising by Miss District ofColumbia. 
Those who selected talents less familiar to pageant audiences said they were only doing what they do best. But some acknowledged that there might be a strategic purpose behind their choice. 
"It will help me stand out," Alecia Rae Masalkoski, 23, of Muskegon, Mich., said of the opening of her karate performance, in which she'll stomp across a bed ofbroken glass to demonstrate her powers of con­centration. 

"You feel it," she said of the feat that will be a first for the Miss America stage. ::It's a litde prickly." 
But she said she thinks the pageant Is ready for a Miss America with a black belt. 
"In the '80s, women can be strong and capable of defending them­selves and be feminine at the same time," said the woman who was the Midwest karate champion at age 16. 
North Dakota sells self on signs 


BISMARCK, N.D. -State tourism officials fear many travelers may think North Dakota is just a long haul on the way to somewhere else, so they're setting up billboards to ex­plain why they should stop and look around. 
"Stay in North Dakota; Custer Was Healthy When He Left," will say one roadside announcement, said state tourism directorJames Fuglie. 
"Stay in North Dakota; Montana is Closed This Week" will face west­bound motorists, Fuglie said. Travelers heading east or south out of the state will see similar messages about South Dakota and Minnesota, he said Monday. 
And for those who haven't heard about winter on the northern plains, another message will read, "Welcome to North Dakota; Open Year-Round." 

The campaign was inspired by a column written by Uoyd Omdahl, director of the Bureau of Governmental Affairs at the Univer­sity of North Dakota, who suggested the state make traveling fun by put­ting pp entertaining signs. 
Omdahl offered several sugges­tions, including "Isn't This The Flattest Place You've Ever Seen?" and "You Are Now Entering Min­nesota. Why?" 
Galvin 
continuedfrom page 1 
He said the old rooms have been converted to biological science stockrooms. 
The animals are used in student lab experiments as well as for faculty research. Spence said, "We are a sup­port organization, research and teaching. The faculty will make good use ofit (research facility)." 
Spence added that no surgeries were being performed on the animals. 
Two full time staffers, two animal caretakers and two veterinarian technicians will care for the animals, he said. 
"The Biology department is strong but small. We only have 28 Biology faculty," he said. Dr. George Craig was recently named a fellow of the National Academy ofScience. 
The facility adds 1 0,044 square feet to the area of the Galvin Life Science Center. 
The facility is being named in honor of Frank M. Friemann, the former chief executive officer and president of Magnovax Inc. The Friemann Charitable Trust of Fort Wayne donated Sl million toward the facility. 
Omyou 

,r 
affordtogamble 

r with the LSAT, GMAT, GRE,orMCA17 
r Probabry not. Great grades 
r 
alone may not be enough to 

~ 
impress the grad school of 
your choice. 
Scores play a part. And thaf~ how Stanley H. Kaplan can help. 
The Kaplan course teaches test-taking techniques, reviews course suqjects, and increases the odds that you'll do the best you cando. 
So if you've been out of school for a while and need a refresher, or even if you're fresh out of college, do what over 1 million students have done. Take Kaplan. Why take l
a chance with your 
career? 
KAPLAN 
STANLEY H. KAPlAN EDUCIJlONAl. CENTER lTD 
The world's leading test prep organization. SOUTH BEND AREA Stanley H. Kaplan Ed. Ctr. 1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 46637 
(219)'272-4135 

Get our new $49* software module when you buy an HP-41. 
It's a deal that has no equal, for a calculator that has no equal. 
Our new HP-41 Advantage software module packs 12K of ROM. One and a half times the capacity of any other HP-41 module. Large enough to hold the most popular engineering, mathematical and financial pro­grams ever written for the HP-41. 
You get comprehensive advanced matrix math func­tions, roots of equations and polynomials, integrations, base conversion and logic functions, and time value of money functions. 
Our new module is also sub-programmable. So you can quickly access just a portion of a program, or trans­fer that section to your own program. 
And it's even menu-driven. That eliminates overlays reduces the number of promrts. · $hart, you get everything its going to take to help the grade in everything from Linear Algebra to Electronics to Statics and Dynamics. 
HP-41 is a deal all its own. Its operating is so advanced, it doesn't need an "equals" Little wonder it's preferred by more engineers 
any other calculator. · · is a limited time offer. Call (800) FQR­
.. · .Ask for Dept. 658B. We'll instantly give :you the name of a dealer who has no equal. · Do it now.•The phone call is free. 
•..· • our new module won't be for long. 
F//;1 HEWLETT 
.. •.:ai PACKARD 
Pm a ;tudent whohas ~ equ~Here~my proof-of-purchase to prove it. Please send me my free software llWldule. 
Name 
Address 
City State Zip 
Phone Number 
HP-41 Serial Number Mail coupon with proof-of-purchase to: Hewlett-Packard Co., c/o Direct Mail Projects/M-M, P. 0. Box 10598, Portland, Oregon 97209 
OHeor not rrdnm•blt" •I UP dtoalrr. HP·41 must bt' purt<hued between R/15/85 and 11/1 'fl/R5 Envelopn mull! he po1tm•rked hy 12/31/85. Good only 1n li.S.I\ Vu1d whrrr prohihitrd,turd 
PGl2511 or rrstricfl!'d hy l•w. Hr rmpln~l'e JIUrc·huf'" nnt rhRihlr 1\lluv. 
•tl. S. SU!l,~e>stt>cf li"'t prin.• A-R w~·rlc:• fur drlit~rr" 
-----------------~~~,-~--~~~--~-~--~--------­
The Observer Wednesday, September 11, 1985-page 5 

A wounded Thailand government soldier ts helped out of a bullet-riddled radio station after a rebel force attempted a coup there. Five were ktlled and59 were injured tn thefighting Monday. 

Gunmen take Duarte's daughter; security guards killed, wounded 
Associated Press 
SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador ­Gunmen attacked presidential security guards outside a private university here yesterday, and wit­nesses said the daughter ofPresident jo~ Napoleon Duarte was kid­napped. 
Employees at a local radio station owned by the daughter, Ines Guadalupe Duarte Duran, 34, also said they had been notified by the 
Correction 
A story in Monday's Observer incorrectly reported the times for two events during Senior Father-Daughter Weekend at Saint Mary's, A brunch will be held at 10 a.m. Sunday in the dining hall, with Mass at noon in 
gaining weight. But my game turned into something else. A way of life. Bulimia had taken over. Making me feel guilty. Alone. And out of control. 
One phone call helped me begin to change all that. When I con­tacted HOPE, I discovered a spe­cial program designed by Memorial Hospital of South Bend that helps people like me who have eating dis­orders. By the end of the program I was finally feeling better about myself -finally feeling like I was in control. 
If you or someone you know has an eating disorder, call284-7151. And discover how HOPE can help. 

HOPE 
Healthy Options for Problem Eaters An affli1ate of Mcmonal Hosp1tal ol South Bond m 

615 North Michigan • South Bend, IN 46601 

family that she had been kidnapped. One of her security guards was killed and one was wounded in the shootout. 
"We only know that she has been kidnapped and that there is one dead," said an employee of the Armed Forces Press Committee when asked about the reports. 
An official at the presidential house, Gertrudis Sandoval, iden­tified the slain guard as Mauricio Alfredo Elena Palomares and said he 
~Mullins 
continuedfrom page 1 
faculty and staff have not received the same level ofattention. 
The changes he advocates won't happen overnight, he said. But Mullins added that his staff has taken well to his "broad philosophical concepts." 
"I think the people in the (personnel) office have really grabbed-on to what I'm saying and are pretty excited about it," he said. 
and the wounded  man  were  Mrs.  
Duarte  Duran's  personal  
bodyguards.  

Troops and presidential security guards swarmed over the area on a main street on the west edge of the capital where the New San Salvador University is located. 
Students said Mrs. Duarte Duran was studying advertising and public relations at the university and ap­parently was grabbed as she left the building. 
The 2,800 employees the department serves do not belong to unions. Mullins said ifhis depart­ment does its job right unions won't be necessary. 
"Employees have a legal and moral right to form and join uni­ons," he said, adding that unions usually result from employees' perception of management in­justice. 
"I can't prevent a union from for­ming, but I can produce an environment which would make union membership less desirable," he said. 


COMPLETE OUTFITTERS for INTRAMURAL SPORTS 
Football shoes Soccer equipment & custom uniforms (Umbro, Russett, others) Wide selection of ND lettered sweats, jackets, !-shirts & sweaters 
1O'I.OFF WITH NO I.D. * 

1635 E. Edison Rd. 277-7284 M·F 10-9, Sat.10-6, Sun.1-5 
Students & Faculty 

• 
Nosignup fee. 

• 
Nomonthly service fee. 

• 
Nominimum usage ... pay only for what you use. 


SAVE 
UP TO 
40% 
ON YOUR LONG 
DISTANCE PHONE CALLS 
~ 
~~~c 
~~ 
SAVERLINE 
C 0 l\PO l\ATIOH TM Jeac &ul•acc Wlcnacc 
• Start saving today by 
a/~
SA RLINE 
at 
1-800-742-0528 
orft._direct 
1-81 -232-2496 
Monday through 
Friday Bam 
to 5pm 

r 
t 
r 
View~_o__i_n__t___________w_ed_n_e_sd-ay_._se_p_te_m_b_er_l_I_.~-9-85_-_p_ag._e_6 
Television cartoons offer 'looney' model for kids 
r 
r 
, r 
r 
r 
r 
I 
~ 
I am not a feminist. I think Gloria Steinen. would benefit immensely from a good body perm. I ·find the thought ofunisex clothing ap· palling!IDd I am unwilling to share a bathroom with anyone who is not carrying a purse (weirdos do not count). 
Maura Mandyck frankly my dear 
"Vive la difference," as they say. But dif­ferent means neither better nor worse. Women have suffered much discrimination throughout history and although our society has advanced many strides towards equality, there remains an insidiously undermining in­fluence. What is this plague of narrow­mindedness? What form does this evil take? The answer is ... Saturday morning cartoons. Allow me to elaborate. 
It is 8 a.m. in Small town, U.S.A.; Johnny has just crawled out of bed. He is wearing In­credible Hulk pajamas and he hungers for Mr. T cereal. He slips downstairs, being careful not to wake his parents. Having obtained a bowl of cereal, Johnny settles himself before the television and turns on the Saturday car­toons. 
The first cartoon is Popeye. The protagonist is a swaggering sailor, his arch rival a hulking clod named Brutus. Caught between the forces ofgood and evil is Olive Oyl. Olive Oyl is a blight upon womankind. She is helpless, simpering, completely dependent upon Popeye, vacillating and embarassing. Time and again she is carried away screaming by Brutus only to be rescued by our hero. 
Johnny changes the channel to another favorite, the Smum. These little blue creatures have in their merry band one female, coyly named Smurfette. Grandpa Smurfis wise and kind; Smurfette is a giggling imbecile. She, like Olive Oyl, ·consistently stumbles into disasters and must be delivered by her male counterparts. ... 
Johnny settles deeper into his father's easy chair, takes a last bite ofcereal, and awaits the beginning ofthe Bugs Bunny Show. 
Do not misunderstand me. I am a Bugs Bunny fan. No matter how late the Friday night dance or party has lasted, I will drag my exhausted body out of bed and peer at Bugs with bloodshot eyes. But sad to say, the Bugs Bunny Show is guilty of the same offenses as the other morning cartoons. The main charac­ters on the Bugs Bunny Show are male: Bugs himself, Dalfy Duck, Sylvester the Cat, Fog· horn Leghorn and Yosemite Sam. The few female characters that do appear are either vacuous, eyelash-batting beauties, introduced to the plot to lure the male astray, or shrewish, rolling-pin wielding wives. Neither image is particularly flattering. 
Thus, during the two hour span thatJohnny is seated before the television on a Saturday morning, he sees a weakling, an airhead, a simpleton and a nag. I contend that children are less influenced by the supposed violence 

P.O.BoxQ 
Students should regard neighbors at OC party 
DearEditor: 
Everyone on campus is aware of the fact that South Bend police are breaking up parties with frightening regularity, and students are letting out a collective scream in frustration as it seems more and more ofour rights are being taken away. While the following request will not completely eliminate the arrival of South Bend's finest at every party, it assuredly will reduce their appearances. 
Simply show common sense. Is it too much to ask you not to throw a beer can in a neigh· bor's yard as you walk to the party? Or relievP. yourself on the side of their house? Or park in their yard? Basic courtesy will eliminate a lot ofthe calls neighbors place to the police. Very often you will find that ifeven a few behave in a rude and immature manner, these unfor­tunate few reflect upon the whole in such a magnified way as to seem to necessitate the 
Doonesbury 

removal of rights from the whole. It may not be warranted, but it happens. 
I apologize if I sound preachy, but I hate to see a promising year ruined. Please take the time to show others around you that you respect them and they will reciprocate. Have a good time, but don't do it at the expense of others! 
Kevin,Howard Notre Dame student 
Fountain will not save students from heat 
DearEditor: 
My high schoolhas no windows. It was built to accomodate air-conditioning and heat, but the district ran out of money before installing these necessities. What can you expect from a public school district in the southwest sub· urbs of Chicago? It is not the tax payers fault students pass out from the heat. Many parents, therefore, would rather pay to send their kids to private schools. 
Notre Dame is a private school, one of the of cartoons than they are by the shameless stereotyping. The impressionable Johnny sits down before the television as a nice, young boy with love and respect for his mother and the other female figures in his life. He gets up two hours later, subliminally convinced that half of the population is worthless. Is it any wonder that he may be disrespectful or con­descending towards the women who will later populate his life? 


most prestigious and financially endowed uni­versities in the country. My own dorm, however, suffers from the same structural in­adequacies as my high school. There is no such thing as a breeze in Pasquerilla East. The position of an open window prevents the air from entering the building. The cinderblock walls create the effect of a microwave oven. Obviously, the architects assumed that the Pasquerillas were to be airconditioned. Some· thing must have gone wrong with the budget for these dorms. Meanwhile, we sit here stick­ing to the furniture. 
I realize that a majority of the buildings on this campus are stone saunas. I sympathize with the student not fortunate to have classe::s in Hayes-Healy, Galvin, or Fitzpatrick. Most of my classes are in O'Shag, or even worse. Cus­hing. There I sit, glued to my chair. re::sisting the urge to run up and loosen my professor's tie. I wonder how he feels lecturing to an audience offolders flapping like fans. Who can learn when sitting there is emotionally and physically draining? 
The intense heat and humidity of South 
Garry Trudeau 
Bend summers are no secret, yet, each year students return to sweltering dorms and un­bearable:: classrooms. When my dad helped me:: move in, I thought he was having a heart at· tack as his balding head tlushed..\ty mom called today to see if I was still alive. Stude::nts. faculty, and parent~ express awareness and concern about the health hazards of poorly ventilated rooms in hot. humid we::athe::r. The:: administration nn·d~ to fund the installation ofairconditioning campus wide. 
In a few we::eks the weather will ht· cooler. Those of us who ~urvive:: the humidity will have forgotten how hot it was, as we don our Notre Dame sweatshirts and head for the foot· ball stadium. The administration will have sweated out anothe::r summer season. squan· de::ring my tuition on a fountain co~ting thousands of dollar~. Come April, do not ht· surprised to see me jumping in it. it will be the only way to cool off around here. Wha;t can you expect from one of the wealthiest private schools in the country? 
Deneen Ka()' 
Pasquerilla East 

Quote of the day 
"All of us are experts at practicing virtue at a distance." 
"The Human Imperative" 
Operations Board 
Business Manager... . .......... David Stephenitch Controller...... ... William J. Highducheck Advertising Manager ........................... Jim Hagan Systems Manager . Mark B. Johnson Production Manager ................John A. Mennell 
Founded November 3, 1966 

()JCU., Y~ "INTEN517YqSEEM570
IJR. GORP, ARE 7Hl3RE 
.. UK& NAUseA, Af:t~'!f:Jr 

.. ANO, OF
5HA/?& 50/rl& OF TH& MIW
ANY OTHl3R 5/IJE £FFECT5 
TIGHT£NIN6 OF rurvGOT· 77Jc.
ASSOCIATWMTJ.I "INTENSfTYq 
UNP!.EASANTN£55 ATTR/8l/TEI) 

COURSe,
TH& JAIU, ~ Vt<...l\, tnv 
P. 0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (21 9) 239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­sible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­taries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Editorial Board 

Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan News Editor ................................... Keith Harrison Jr News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Sports Editor ........................................... Jeff Blumb Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches Copy Chief ..............................................Frank Lipo 
I would remind the television industry of their enormous influence and the ensuing responsibilty. The sabotage of young minds can only lead to a growing chasm between the sexes. Both men and women will suffer a loss. 
Maura Mandyck is a juniorEnglish major from Notre 'Dame and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
r 

-· 

Alternative Dlusic society entertains and infor10s 

The only quibble I have with this book is that Rohhins omitted tht· section on compilation records. which was induded in the original edition. lie explains that it sct·mcd "useless," hut he.-doc.-sn't know what ht•'s talking about. Compilations arc a great way to sample whole genres of music inexpensively, be it cow­punk or industrial music 
For the adventuresome. the book is essential. For the novice, it will certainly entertain. Robbins and the othc.-r contributors have done an excellent job in assembling rcvit"ws of every major record ofalternatin· music ever released, as well as some that arc not so important. 
"The Nt·w Trouser Press Record Guide." Published hy Scribner's. Get it now. Who knows what you're 

There will be a meeting for anyone interested in writing 
FEATURES 
for Ihe Obset:Ver___ 

Accent 
From the Far East to the Midwest 
John Affleck 
features writer 

u Qi smikd hroadlv and tril:dG to concentrate. lie has a tough time with English. "I fc.-t:l vc.-ry lucky to he at Notre Dame," he said. 
Gu Is a 26-ycar-old freshman 
from Pc.-king. China. II is presence.-at 
Notre.-Dame is the.-product of the 
thaw in Sino-American rdations. 
and the attt·mpts of Father 
Theodore lle~hurgh. unin·rsity 
prcsidt·nt. to t•stahlish links with tht· 
Chine~t-sdt'lllifk community. ~aid 
Director of Admissions 1\.c\'in 
Roonq. 
Rooney said llt-shur~-:h and 
l'rovost Timoth~ <l':\kara ha\'e 
visitt·d China ~everal times in 
rt-ccnt yt·ar~ to t·~tahli~h an-dt·mic 
tit·s with tht· <.hint·st· Andt·my of 
Sdcnn·. Tht· st·t·rt·tan l(t·neral of 
tht· at·ademy i~ t}i\ btlwr. (,u 
Yijit·n. who wa~ a :\curt· Damt· 
graduatt· ~tudt·nt taul(ht In 
cht·mistry professor Emil T. Hofman 
in I<)<;(), and who was awarded an 
honorar} del(fl'l' at th1s \ t·ar's com­
lllelll't'mt·nt t·xt·rdst·s. Throu~-:h hi~ 
fatht·r. t}1 was ofll:rl'lltht· chantT to 
study at ~otrt· Dame 
"It is a fortun;ltt' dr.llltT lor me." 
<}i. who was a pt·;rsant in the 
t·ountrY~idt· Irom 1'><•9--1 durin!( 
tht· Cultural Rt·\'olution period of 
Mao-Tse Tung's rule. said. "Then I 
no read hooks. I onh work ·· 
In I9-1. he wt·nt to I'd,in!( and 
ht'CIIllt' a studt·nl. From I 9Kll-X2 ht· 
studit'd dt-ctr•lllln. karninl( 
Fortran t·omputt·r language lie was 
alrt·at.ly working with "t·xpcrt com-
Tim Adams 
Book review 


Charles Scribner's Sons, $13.95,463 pages Books ore rated on o tour-star scole tour be<ng the best 

P 
t•oplt· often ask me where I ht·ar 
ofsome of the musk I like And 
if w-oups like :-.laked Raygun ami tht· 
.\1cat Puppets don't ring a ht'll. 
mayht· you'd ask. too. 
Asidt· from friends' recommenda­tions and impulst· purt·hast·s. most of the music I huy comt·s front reading about it. Sounds stupid. right? It isn't. You'd he surprist·d at how oftt·n r()(:k critks arc right about good music puler systems" hdorc he began preparing for his freshman year in the.-United States. 
"I was marrkd.June 24-I leave for America .June 26-just two days after," Qi said. lie could not com­ment on whc.-thcr he missed his new bride ht·caust· he could not undcr­stant.l the word "miss" as anything but an unmarrkd wornan. "This 'miss' is a diftkult question. I'm sorry," he said. 
Once in the l'nited States. Qi tourt·d arount.lthc countr\'. 
He could not comment on wheth­er he missed his new bride because he could· not under­stand the word "miss" as anything but an unmarried woman. 
primarily in tht· :\1idwest. tl1r a month before coming to Notre Dame whcrt· he worked in tht· biology lah. 
This tall. <}I ha~ a standard course load li1r a frt·shman. induding Hof­man's chemiMry da.,s. composition~ 
One hook has recently come out for tlwse of you with a taste for anything ranging from hip-hop to punk rock to AJrican beat music "The New Trouser Press Record Guide:· a revised edition of "The Trouser Press Guide to New Wave Recort.ls," covc.-rs rather thoroughly every a.o;pcct of alternative music, with a smidgen of the mainstream. 
Edited hy Ira A. Rohhins, this guide serves as a useful tool to building a dc.-cent record collel.·tion. The \'arious contributors makt· an eft·ort to CO\'cr even the most unheard-of hands (Animal SI:J\'l'S. Screaming :\lccmccs ), and the general tone is sympathetic towards new groups. 
Each entry gives tht· titles of all the: rclcast·s hy a hand through May of this year (in somt· cases, going so far as to list singles). the year they were released. and on which label they were relca.o;ed. A whole page or more is dc:vojed to major artists like David Bowil' or the Cla.o;h, describing in detail all their r.ecords. 
In general, the criticism is in­sightful, especially that of Robbins. This hook is complete and accurate all the way through: it was ob­viously a lahor of love.-ti1r him. 
litc:r.ature and physical education. "It is difficult. English. somc:timc:s I forget the words." he said, gesturing with his hands. "But I hc:lit"ve I study hard li1r degree -in engineer­ing-then for ma.o;tcrs and Ph.D." 
Qi. who expects to be in the llnited States for two years hcl(m:­rcturning home to visit. is not the only Chinese person on campus, Rooney said. "There are also at least two Chinese graduate students on campus as a result of Father Hcs­hurgh's efforts," he said. "In most cases of non-traditional studc:nts they come seeking us, but they usually stay with local schools bc:cause of the high tuition here." 
"They decide to let me come to Notre Dame so I prepared English very hard." Qi said of his chance to be a Domer. "I like America· many things I like. For example, my roommate. I want to thank you and Notre.-Dame for the opportunity." 

Wednesday, September 11, 1985-page 7
,. 
Gu Qi studies English in between engineeringhomework assignments. 
l'>' ':' ':' R A N -... 
.\.. --.;;...•---•;;..;....;.....,._--~'i} 
--~ 

II. 
The Observer /Paul Pahoraky 

Keenan Hall is borne-away-from-home for Ql. 
Tonight at 8 p.m. In the Observer office. 
For more information contact Mary Healy at the Observeroffice, 239-5313. 

missing? A comprehensive record guide is reviewed at left. 

I 
Sports Briefs 
The Notre Dame-Michigan State football 
game on Sept. 21 probably will be televised nationally by ABC ifthe Irish beat Michigan this Saturday. If that is the case, the game will start in the afternoon. Otherwise, ESPN likely wiU choose to broad­cast the game with an evening kickoff. -The Obseroer 
The Notre Dame soccer team will travel to 
Chicago to take on the Blue Demons of DePaul today at 4:30 p.m. ­
The Obseroer 
The ND indoor and outdoor track teams will be meeting today at 4:30 p.m. in the football auditorium in the ACC. All prospective team members must attend. -The Obseroer 
The NDJudo Club will begin practice tonight at 7 
p.m. on the second floor of the Rockne Memorial Building. Anyone who is interested may attend. -The Obseroer 
The ND Men's Volleyball Club will hold 
tryouts tonightand tomorrow from 9 p.m. to 11 p.m. in the ACC Pit. Anyone who is interested must attend both nights. -The Obseroer 
The ND Squash Club will play the Michigan Squash Club on Saturday in the CCRB Building following the football game. Anyone who is interested may stop by. For more information, call William Mapother at 283-3451.-The Obseroer 

Wednesday, September 11, 1985-page 8 
Interhall officials are neededfor football and 
soccer. For more information, contact th NVA office in the ACC.­
The Obseroer 

Interhall soccer rosters are due in the NVA office today. An entry fee of $25 must accompany each hall's roster.-The Obseroer 
NVA softball deadlines have been extended for both the co-ree and 16-inch competition. All rosters are due today in the NVA office. -The Obseroer 
Graduate touch football teams of six players each may register as a department today at the NVA office in the ACC. -The Obseroer 
An open innertube water polo tournament 
will be hel<\,by NVA. Teams of 10 players (with at least four women) 
may register today by paying a $10 fee at the NVA office in the ACC. · 
The Obseroer 

An outdoor volleyball tournament will 
be held by NVA. Teams of at least nine players may register today at the NVA office in the ACC. The limit for this elimination tournament is 32 teams. -The Obseroer 
A scramble golf tournament wm be held by 
NVAon Sunday. Students, faculty and staff may register as individuals or pairs. The deadline for submitting $4 greens fees to the NVA office is today. -The Obseroer 
APTop20 
The Top Twenty college football teams in The Associated Press poll. with lirst-place votes in parentheses. this seuon·a recorda and total points. Points based on 20.19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents are italicized. 
1. Auburn (16) 1-0-0 1,118 2. Oklahoma (28) o-o-o 1,11 6 3. Florida (3) 1-o-o 974 4. Southern Gal (6) 1-o-o 97 0 5. lowa(S) 0-0-0 911 6. So. Methodist (2) 1-0-0 90 8 7. Florida State 2-0-0 75 5 8. Oklahoma State 1-0-0 741 9. Ohio State 0-0-0 686 10. UCLA 1-0-0 61 2 11. Penn Stale 1-0-0 51 6 12. LSU 0-0-0 476 
13. Notre Dame o-o-o 456 14. Arkansas o-o-o 439 15. South Carolina 2-0-0 32 9 16. Brigham Young 1-1-0 294 17. Maryland 0-1-0 251 18. Nebruka 0-1-0 240 19. Illinois 0-1-0 198 20. Alabama 1-o-o 175 
Correction 
A sports brief in yesterday's Observer incorrectly reponed that the Notre Dame Open golf 
tournament had been completed and the winners named. The Open was only at the midpoint, with 36 of 72 holes played. 

The Obsen•.-r Notre Dam.-offin:. locatnl on th<· thin.l floor of l.al'ortune Student C.-nt.-r. an:epts das,ified adn·rti,in!( from 9 a.m. until ·• p m.. :\1onda~ throu!lh Friday The Obserr•er Saint .\I an··, oftkc. lm:ated on the third 1loor of Haggar <:oll.-!(e Cent<·r. accepts classifil'lb from 12.~0 p.m. until .~ p.m.. ~1<>n· day though Friday Deadline for next·da\ da"ified' is .~ p.m All classified' must he prepaid. t•ither in p.-rson or h\· mail <:harge is I 0 cent' per fin· charac­
Classifieds 

ters erda·. 
NOTICES 
··············~················································· 
$10.$360 Weeldy/Up Mailing Circulera! No bouee/quotu! Sincerely intereeted rulh 1811-addresaed envelope: Dept. AM· 7CEG, PO Box 830, Woodatock, IL 
60098. 
.....................~ .......................................... 
'TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TYPING CALL CHRII234-8117 
EXPERT TYPING 2n-a534 AFTER 5:30 
BUSINESS EXPRESS, INC. Wprdprocesaing and typing 272-8827 
Club ltalia meeting tonight, 7:15 p.m., Lafortune Little Theatre. St. Ma<y's stu­dan.. take the 7:00 p.m. bus from Lernana...Qu.,.tions call Len at 1699 or Fredat1S81. 
RA&fA RALLY AGAINST STARVATION 
. WeclnMday 6:30pm 
Volunt-Poeitiono available for Com­munication and Theatre productions in: publicity, promotion, program design, aound, and lighting. For information call Tom Bark• at23&-5956. 
anyone ~nterested in a San Franc1sco Club please call Karen 3435 or Jenny 2884. 
LOST/FOUND 
REWARD--REWARD--REWARD-· LOST AMETHYST and GOLD BEADED BRACELET. GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE TO MEII IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL GRETCHEN, AT 3299. 
LOST: black tape case with collection of cuaenes and a radio adaptor . If found, call Kathy at 283-3690. 
BOOK BAG MIX-UP!! IF YOU GRABBED THE WRONG BOOK BAG FROM UN­DER ONE OF THE OUTDOOR TABLES AT THE BOOKSTORE ON WED. 8/28, I'VE GOT YOUR BAG. MY BAG WAS THE SAME AS YOURS, EXCEPT THAT MINE WAS EMPTY AND YOURS HAD A PACK OF TEABERRY GUM AND AN ELK COUNTY SAVINGS PEN IN IT. IF YOU EVER WANT TO SEE YOUR GUM AND YOUR PEN AGAIN, CALL 2280. THANKS!! 
FOUND: BASKETBALL OUTSIDE OF STEPAN COURTS LAST WEEK. CALL 1651 TO IDENTIFY. 
LOST: Notre Dame ctus ring, antiqued gold with red atone. MEH ·as is mscribed on inside. If found please call Mary at 1367. 
LOST:BROWN WALLET AT 'KARATE KID.' I DESPERATELY NEED MY LICENSE!!! I DON'T CARE ABOUT THE MONEY OR THE OTHER 10. CALL MAR· TIN MCNULTY AT 3274. NO QUES­TIONS. 
STOLEN: Umbrella lrom South Dining Hall between 11 :23 and 12:09 on Monday the 9th. It is eaa1ty identlilable.and if I see you on campus with it, ... you don't want to know the rest. Return 1tlo the Ad Build­ing Lost and Found. or Holy Croes Halt. Save yourself phyaicatand mental pam. 
LOST DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT RING. VERY IMPORTANT. PLEASE CON­TACT ALICE AT 232-60691F FOUND. 
LOST: Gold/silver imitation Rote• watch, lost Sat. night(the 7th) at either campus view, St.Louis St., or 0-6. It wu a very special gift, PLEASE HELP ME OUT! Reward offered, please call Jim at 3649 (416Morriuey). THANKS!!! 
LOST: My goldlone watch somewhere between Alumni and Watah. If lound, please call Karen at x2623. 
FOUND AT THE AUGUSTA BASH SAT. NIGHT: A PAIR OF COOL SUNGLASSES CALL 284·5309 OR 5310 TO CLAIM THEM. IF NO ONE CLAIMS THEM, WE'RE KEEPING THEM' 
LOST: RED SOCIAL WORK BOOK NEW IF FOUND CALL 284-4431 
LOST ONE (1) L.L.BEAN BACKPACK BOOK· 
BAG TYPE THING IF YOU WERE LOOKING (OR EVEN IF YOU WEREN'T) YOU MIGHT HAVE FOUND IT IN HURLEY OR THE A.C.C. (MAYBE EVEN CUSHING). I'D AP· PRECIATE IT IF YOU'D LET ME KNOW IF YOU FOUND IT. THAN)(! CALL JOE AT 2094. BY THE WAY ITS BLUE AND HAD AN ECON BOOK AND SOME OT· HER STUFF IN IT. 
Ok you know you have my keya, and I knoW you have my keya. You called the Observer office yesterday and descrbed them to one of our employeea. You know the keya with a darkroom key and keys marked 33. Remember them yet? You loundthem in the Sr. Bar parking tot. Does that jog your memory? If it did, then how about dropping them off at the Observer office. Thanks. 
Lost: Gold Seiko watch, lost Friday after­noon at Greenfield, if found please call Mike a111n. REWARD OFFERED. 
LOST: BENNETTON RUGBY SHIRT. Blue and White. Laundry tag with no. 101n and two small stains on front. If tound pteue call R1ck at272-8588. 
FOUND FOUND FOUND: A pair of cool shades under tree '" front of Holy Croes on Sunday. Call to identify: 232-5570. 
LOST: GOLD RING WITH DIAMONDS. SAPPHIRES, AND AN OPAL! IF FOUND PLEASE CONTACT MAUREEN, AT 284· 4326. REWARD OFFERED!!!!! 
FOR RENT 
Nice furnished house good neighborhood approx. 1 mite north of NO 2n-3604/683· 8889. 
ROOMMATE WANTED. IRISH HILLS 
APT. FURNISHED, CALL 291-8895, JIM 
..................... 
FEMALE ROOMMATES WANTED AT 
NOTRE DAME APT8-CAU ANNE AT 
2100 OR SHIRLEY AT 234-M47 
OFFICE SPACE (IDEAL FOR ATTOR· NEY)740 SQ.FT.-OFF-STREET PARKING-BUSY DOWNTOWN LOCATION-307 HILL STREET· CALL:233-0t87 FOR MORE INFO. 
LARGE 5 ROOM APARTMENT-1/HALF BATHS,2 BEDROOMS,307 HIU STREET·$400. INCLUDES UTILITIES· CALL 233-0187 
student efficiency $125.and utiliti• near N.D. 25S8505: 2594943 
Furnished House Close to Campus -6 bdrm, 2 baths CaH 2n-3461 
WANTED 
wanted 2 gaa to any home games call 272-3491 
........................ NEED TIX FOR MICH STATE(3) BOB 1751 
................................. 
Prof. seeks co-ed to babysit toddler one nile a week. 233-1873 after 6 p.m. 
WANTED, RIDERS TO AND FROM ST. LOUIS WEEKEND OF 9/13. CAU MIKE AT288-4650 
$$$$$WANTED$$$$$ Travel enthuaiasts wanted to join the na­tion's most reputable Campus Rep. Sales Team. Earn unlimited commissions and FREE trips promoting Ski & Beach trips. Call SUNCHASE TOURS INC. Today! 1­SOQ-321·5911 
NAUGLES needs delivery people for N.D. & S.M.C. Car required. Apply in person. 
Need riders to Loras College. leaving 9­13,returning 9-15.Call Denny at 1787 
Ride needed to IU BLOOMINGTON FRI 9/13. Call L1nda4135. 
RIDE OR RIDERS NEEDED-ILLINOIS STATE UNIV.-9/13 CALL ANNE 284· 4393 
FOR SALE 
FOR SALE, ONE WAY TICKET TO Ll MACGARTHER AIRPT., GOOD UNTIL 12 OCT.. CALL 4083. 
TYPEWRITER: small portable electronic. Call5435 days:256-1312 eve. 
TICKETS 
I need 2 and/or 4 GA's for Michigan State u soon as POssible. Call Mike at1806 
Need 4 GA'S FOR ARMY GAME" PLEASE CALL 272-4540 
Need 2-4 MSU GA's for my boss! Help me Save my job! call $con at x1803 ..................... ···································· 
NEED MICH ST STUD TIX. CALL 'JIM 1489 
HELP! Need 2 MSU GAs. Will trade MISS or LSU, or pay$$$. ED 1857 
HURRICANE ELANA SURVIVERS willing to sell all possel8ions for II­STATE nCKETS !!I $$$ CALL PAT 
2058 
NEED 1 MICHIGAN ST TIX '!!Stu or GA . call1562 
UNCLE SAM WANTS YOU II! To Give Up Some Army G.A."o Be All You Can Be And Call Sammy at 20n or 2078 (We offer cuh, experience, and travel op­portunities.) 
I NEED TWO GA'S TO THE MSU GAME. CALL 2752 AFTER 5:00 PM 
I DESPERATELY NEED MANY MSU TICKETS CALL MIKE 1476 
................... 
HELP I need 1,2, or 3 GA for Michigan St. Call Mike 1454. 

PLEASE, I M DESPERATE! ITS MY BIRTHDAY ON THE 21st -SELL ME 6 MICH. ST. G.A.'S AND YOU'LL BE INVITED TO THE PARTY!! PLEASE CALL ANNE 284-5048 
HELP SAVE A LIFE. I need 2 ARMY 
G.A.s If you are a true litesaver, call Pete 
24~8 

I need Mich1gan State GA sit you can help call Stan at 2341 
NEED 2 GA FOR EITHER ARMY OR USC. CALL BOB, 234-8008 AFTER 5 PM 
HELP -MY PARENTS HAVE AIRLINE RESERVATIONS FOR PARENTS WEEKEND -NOW ALL THEY NEED ARE 2 G.A. S FOR THE ARMY GAME. MONEY IS OF NO OBJECT' CALL LAURINE AT 4224. 
HELP-NEED 3 G.A. ·s FOR ARMY GAME $$CALL CHRIS 1135 
WHAT DO YOU WANT FOR YOUR 
M.S.U. TICKET? I'M WIUING TO MEET ANY OFFER. I NEED 3 TICKETS­STUD/G.A. CALL STEVE 3318-LET ME TRY TO GET YOU WHAT YOU WANT IN EXCHANGE. 
NEED TICKETS TO NO VS USC GAME CALL 2n 4324 EVENINGS BETWEEN 6:00& 11:00 
2 MSU student tickets available. Call 288­2348 after 6 PM 
Jeraeyite will trade 2 MSU and 2 MICH !IX for 2 USC G.A. t~X. Call Jeff after 7 p.m. at 201-356-6534 
HAve· usc· rix ro.riil.r:iE.FoA'\isu 
TIX. PH (502) 443-4754 
Big$$$ tor 2 MSU GA·s. Call Rich at283· 3202 
HAVE 2 ARMY GAS NEED 2 NAVY GA'S. WILL SELL ARMY TIX, BUT PREFER A SWAP CALL MIKE 3110. 
Need 2 M1ch St !IX X 1177 Larry 
I NEED TIXS FOR MICH & ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 
I have Mich. and M1ch. Sr. t1x. Best offer. Eric 1527. 
NEED 4 GA'S FOR MICH ..STATE. CALL 284-4408. 
NEED 4 MSU GA'S, 1 STUDENT. CAU BILLAT234-7421. 
DESPERATELY SEEKING TICKETS! I need 4 or 5 G.A. ·a and 1 student ticket for Mich. State. Please help me! CALL RON 35SB OR 239-ns1 
NEED 2 MSU GA'S--WILL TRADE 2 MICHIGAN GA'S OR BUY: CALL DAN 239-7668 
2 STU. FTBl. TIC BOOKLETS. BEST OF­FER. CRAIG 3380 OR BETH 284-5200. 
I HAVE 2 BOX SEATS FOR CUBS VS. CARDS ON FRI. SEPT 13 AND 2 SEATS ON SAT.INTERESTED? CALL 1270 
NEED 2 MSU-ND GA'8. CALL KEN AT 258-3423 AND MAKE MY DAY. 
WANTED: 7 MSU GA'S so yupp1es from Chicago can prance around tn their green pants and drink 1mported b-s on Green Field. Please call Ken at 272-8784 after 11 pm. 
NEED MSU STUDENT OR GA TIX WILL TRADE ARMY OR USC TIX OR PAY$$. CALL GERRY 234-7421 
PERSONALS 
Perspective-
Use it or Lose it. If you turned to 1t11s page. 
you're forgeHing that what is go1ng on 
around you 15 not reahty. 
Think about that. 
·Richard Bach, Illusions 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N., 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN 
WordproceSSI ng Call Dolores 277-604 5 
WANTED: PARTY ANIMAL WHO CAN WRITE. The Observer Accent section needs a 21-year-old to research and wnte its new weekly column. the Bar Beat For information contact Mary Healy al The Observer. 239-5313. 
The entire city of P1qua, Oh1o 11 coming our ro see ND play Mich•gan Srare They are wtlling to trade m thelf whoM collec­tion of Slim Whitman albums to buy t1ck· ets. Please help them. It's nor often these people get our of Oh10. 
Calf Amy at239-5303 or 272-9579. 
Happy Birthday tou' Happy Birthday ro You' Happy Birthday Michelle Woods' Happy B•rthday to You' 
HI MURPH SKY HOW'S TRICKS 
HAPPY 21st MARY PAT CALLANAN AND ROBIN ROD!-SEPT. 10 AND 11. SEE YA AT MR. OS TUES. AND SENIOR BAR WED LOVE. US 
MICHELLE, THANKS FOR BEING SUCH A GREAT ROOMMATE. I WANT TO WISH YOU THE GREATEST BIRTHDAY EVER HAVE A BLAST. RELAX AND GO CRAAZY. LUV YA, K. 
HAPPY BELATED BIRTHDAY TO DON EL-ETER -SORRY ABOUT BEING LATE!! 
Perchance today IS Steve's birthday. RUSH on up to him and offer him a cock­1811 or three 
Ed Cortes: A man of pride: dignity: a man commiUed to cteamng the oral refuse ot others. 
BED & BREAKFAST, Football weekends for NO parents. Two (2) night minimum. 10 mine. from campus. 272-5640. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY , KAREN !!!' You make every day special Love HERB 
VARSITY FIELD HOCKEY VARSITY FIELD HOCKEY VS. Ball State The most DANGEROUS game at NO!' Bnng your BULLETPROOF VEST!!! Friday the 13th' 3:30 Alumni F1eld 
Happy 20th Birthday' MARY P. HIG­GINS!!! 2 decades does NOT matunty make!! Who needs it anyway???? Been in any POOLS lately?!! Happy 20'1uv meeee! 
SMOKER AND OPEN HOUSE AT THE K 
OFC COME AND WATCH THE IRISH MAUL THE WOLVERINES AT THE K OF C. BESIDES THE BIG SCREEN TV AND THE GOOD COMPANY, THERE WILL BE CHEAP FOOD--$.50 BURGERS AND $.25 HOT DOGS. DO COME. 
JANET, I hope you fmd your cup' And pleue don't stop LOVING me. Love. BEER BONG 
William D. Butler:Happy Birthday 22 years of bhsa.none of WhiCh went spent'" Sydney. f 
Greg Ruh1d ITS A BEAUTIFUL DAY"'" 
A thoul8nd thanks to my buddies lrom Sonn and Grace. and espec~afty to the LeWIS ladle& tor g1v1ng me such a great day' From 12:01 to 11:59. 11 was an EX­CEUENT birthday'" Love you lots' -Heather 
THANKYOU ST. JUDE . T 
Lead s1nger/gu1tanst look1ng to start band. Call Pat at1088. ENDAD 
Lonely? Need a fnend? Or maybe just direcbona to the library or poet off1ce. For comfort call DWAN. 
When Ken IS away. Barboe Will play' 
To 'ANON.' g1rt who 1nv1ted me to SMC happy hour lui fn: I got your lener Mon­day' Dare we try aga1n? Please call me. 
Ann' All cute football players: Frosh J Grace •& fak~ng her 1njury. Don·t carry her booko' 
M.K. from Mornssey. thanks so much for walk1ng me home on Saturday mght' Just k1ddln. J.S. 
ER-ER-ER-ER­
ERRRRRRRRARRRRRRRRRRRP• 
WELL...HOWDY-00" YOU RE 20 TODAY DON C HANO? HAVE A YIPPITY-SKIPPITY-DOODAH-DAY'"' LOVE. BOBS. 
ERRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR RRRRRRRRRRRRRRP"""' HAPPY HAPPY B DAY BUDDIE"' HAVE A GREEEEEEEEEEEEAT 20TH11 !!'""11 ' LOVE,BROWNUS&ROBINUS &ELISABETH& ELIZABETH&MOLS&NANNABOO &MAURA&SPACE& SCHULTZ&MARY&MAR&ALL OF YOUR LYON'S DUDA BUDDIES-­
SEEYAAAAAAA1111 
Metal vocalist needed. Cali Jeff 2469. 
SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS! Interested 1n reportmg for The Observer? Don't forget the new reporter Orientation session TONIGHT 7:30 p.m. in Room 304 Haggar College Center Important information Wilt be given out 
Any questions? Call Tess Guanno at 239­5313 
RHAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY EDWARD01 LOVE ANN 
AN IRISH FIGHTSONG FOR YOU' CHEER CHEER FOR DENA MARIE WAKE UP INSTEAD OF WALKING IN SLEEP. YOU CAN DO IT IF YOU TRY, 
YOU ARE THE BEST AND WE'LL TELL YOU WHYI WHAT THOUGH THE STUNTS BE HIGH OR LOW, IRISH WILL NAME YOU 'STAR OF THE SHOW'. WOLVERINES WILL COME UN-DONE WHEN OUR TEAM IS NUMBER ONE' GO .CLAPCLAPCLAP.. . GO...CLAPCLAPCLAP...GO-GO-GO' DENARIE-GOOD LUCK AND ENJOY' 
WE LOVE YOU' 
M & G THAT'S YOU IN GRACE ARE WAITING FOR AN APOLOGY K & B 
Ru"lor has it that Fr. Tyson says the new dorms Will be CO-ED!!! 


The Observer Wednesday, September 11, 1985 -page 9 

ObRrver/Paul Pahoresky 

Notre Dame freshman Ann Seblner (2) and Saint Mary's sop­homore Landry Clement ( 6) duel for possession ofthe ball in yes­terday's Irish-Belles soccer matcbup. The Notre Dame women's soccer club pre1'ailed in the game by a score of3-1, as Notre Dame freshman Sue Haling scored three goals in the first halfto lead the lrlsb. Andrea LaFreniere bas details ofthe game on page 12. 
~...-.~..-.~ .......... ~~~ ......... ~ ................. 
ILOST: Diamond Engagement Ringt
t ttell' (possibly in the vicinity ofthe Grotto) ! t p\e0 "e HUSBAND WILL KILL IF NOT FOUND!! ' t Reward lffound 232-6069 t 
........................................................................... 
~.-..-.. 
By BILL HESSION 
Sports Writer 
Even with the football team preparing for its big opener at Mic­higan, many people on the Notre Dame campus are getting ready for the hoops season. In fact, basketball could be considered the campus sport of Notre Dame. 
Every day from midmorning until long after sunset, students flock to participate in one of America's favorite games -pick-up basketball. Conveniently located, 'the many bas­ketball court s provide an excellent opportunity for weekend jocks to work out, have fun and improve their game. 
Here's a run down on the best places to play basketball at Notre Dame: 
Rockne Memorial BuDding The Rock is king. Whether summer or winter, the ftock always has the best basketball to be found on campus. You can find its polished hardwood floors constantly in use. One reason for the Rock's popularity is the fact that you can borrow a bas­ketball with the presentation of a student l.D. During the off-season, you can find even the best varsity athletes playing pick-up games. 
Stepan Center -Stepan Center provides the towers and the North Quad with the best outdoor facilities on campus. With eight full courts, Stepan is by far the largest of Notre Dame's facilities. In addition, half of the courts are lighted to ac-

Facilities abound 

Hoops are alive and well at ND 
I(J(JU••• You II dnve !hr revo1u11011ary Dodge Daytona Turbo through a competttlon rally course set up nght here on campus Your lap wtll be electron•cally ltmed and tho: student w•th the best• offtctal '!'tore wms tt tnp to Odytona Bedch to compete tn thf" Nattonal Grand f"mals Other pnzes Wtll be awarded to 2nd and 3rd place fmtshers .mdeach hour Spectalot5 ctnd drtvers alike Will WIO great campus PflleS ~sotutely no purchase ts necessary tt"s all free fun lAP.•• Over $125.000 m pnzes Will be awarded 1n the 3rd Annual Nat1onal Collegiate Dnvmg Champ•onsh•ps brought to you by Dodge and other part1c1paung sponsors 
National Grand Finals Awards  
1st Place  $5.000 cash scholarsh•p and use of a Dodge  
Daytona Turbo for 1 year  
2nd Place  $3.000 cash scholarshiP and use of a Dodge  
Daytona Turbo for 1 year  
3rd Place  $2.000 cash scholarshiP and use of a Dodge  
Daytona Turbo lor 1 year  

WITH ADDITIONAL SPONSORSHIP FROM 

GOODf"iEAR 00180 ooean~!.!~c 
Newsweek 
BY 
m
j @m~!J)ffi~ ®·National 
.-,. Safety
f"..., 
SUPPORTED BY ~ National Highway e • · Council
EASTERN 
USDeponrrenl TralllcSafely 
of TranspalotiOO AdmiNstration 

comodate late-night hoopsters. The lights are turned off by Notre Dame security after the last players leave the courts, which can be as late as 2 or 3 a.m. In the wintertime, players can move their pick-up games into Stepan Center Itself. 
Lyons Courts -Nestled behind Lyons Hall and the Rock, the Lyons courts are the South Quad's al­ternative to Stepan Center for out­door basketball. Recently installed lights make Lyons a hotspot for nighttime basketball. 
Bookstore Courts -The famous courts behind the Notre Dame bookstore are seldom crowded until spring when the big tournament rolls around. The Bookstore Tourna­!llent is the largest tournament in the world, with 560 teams par­ticipating. These courts have seen their share of tradition, sportsman­ship and, ofcourse, great basketball. 
The Athledc and Convocation Center -The ACC has a court for Digger Phelps and the varsity team, but great courts also are available to the average hoopster. Pick-up games can be found in any of the four auxiliary gyms ofthe ACC whenever it is open. So when the weather turns wet or cold you can bounce your basketball into the friendly confines oftheACC. 
Students play for many different reasons, but by far the most com­mon is to get away from studying. 
"It's really relaxing to get out on the court and get a break from study­ing," says Tim Kenesey, a freshman from Holy Cross Hall. 
The installation of lights on the courts is one ofthe most popular ad­ditions to the campus in a long while. Students can play before, after or while they are supposed to be studying. 
"It's great -you can go down to the courts at midnight and pick up some good competion," claims Mike Thurston, whose personal favorites are the Lyons courts. "It gives you a good chance to get away from the books." 
Students find basketball an excel­lent way to keep in good physical shape and keep off the pounds. Tom Massarella, a senior and a veteran of the Notre Dame pick-up basketball scene, put it best when he said, "Basketball is a great way to try and stay in shape after all these tough .weekends." 
If you really enjoy playing com­petitive basketball, then Notre Dame is the place to be. 
In addition to the Bookstore Tournament, the interhallleague is a great place to find some tough com­petition. Sponsored by Non-Varsity Athletics, the league Is very popular and always competitive. Hall rivalries help to produce some ofthe best games to be found on campus. 
So whether you play to stay in shape or just to have fun, Notre Dame certainly provides many op­portunities to play good basketball. 
Auburn takes over top spot in latest AP poll 
Oklahoma Coach Barry Switzer wasn't surprised that the Sooners lost their No. 1 ranking in the As­sociated Press poll yesterday. 
"We got all the publicity in the preseason," said Switzer, whose Sooners were No. 1 in the preseason and first regular-season polls, "but we don't play our first game until Sept. 28 and I knew people would forget about us." 
While Oklahoma slipped from No. I to No. 2, Auburn jumped from No. 2 to No. 1, just two points ahead of the Sooners, by routing Southwes­tern Louisiana 49-7 behind 8o jack­son's 290 yards rushing and four touchdowns. 
Florida, a 35-23 winner over Miami, jumped from fifth to third with three first-place votes and 974 points. The Gators replaced Sout­hern Methodist, which had problems before defeating Texas-El Paso 35-23 and slipped to sixth. 
Southern Cal rose from sixth to fourth with six first-place ballots and 970 points on the strength ofa 20-1 0 triumph over Illinois, which had been No. 11 but fell to 19th. Iowa, which has not yet played a game, slipped from fourth to fifth with five first-place votes and 911 points. Sixth-place SMU received the other two first-place ballots and 908 points. 
Florida State vaulted from 17th to seventh with 755 points by upset­ting No. 10 Nebraska, 17-13, and Ok­lahoma State went from 16th to eighth with 7 4 1 points by trouncing Washington. 
THE BREAKFAST CLUB 
SEPTEMBER 11 & 12 CARROLL HALL -SMC 
THEY ONLY MET ONCE. BUT rr CHANGED 
THEIR lMS FOREVER. 
"Early Bird Special" 7:00pm $1.00 
BREAKFAST 
9:30pm -$1.50 
CLUB 
® 



The Observer Wednesday, September 1I. 1985-page 10 
Mets take over first 

Johnson slams Cards for Darling 
NEW YORK -Howard johnson lined a grand slam moments after a bench-clearing altercation, capping a five-run first inning last night that led the New York Mets past the St. Louis Cardinals 5-4 and back into first place in the National League East. 
johnson's grand slam came after Cox hit George Foster on the hip with a pitch. The two exchanged words, and both benches and bul­lpens emptied as umpires inter­vened and the two closed. No puncheswere thrown and orderwas restored within five minutes. 
The victory in the opener of the three-game series, before a crowd of 50,195, gave the Mets a one-game lead over St. Louis. The Cardinals, who entered the game with the same 82-53 record as the Mets, had been in first place since Aug. 22. 
Winner Ron Darling, 15-5, took a three-hitter and a 5-2 lead into the seventh, but yielded to reliever Roger McDowell. 
Danny Cox, 15-9, took the loss. Each team was held to onlyfive hits. 
Royals 6, Angels 0 
ANAHEIM, CALIF. -Frank White and Lonnie Smith hit two-run homers to back the three-hit pitch­ing ofCharlie Leibrandt last night as the Kansas City Royals blanked California 6-0 to extend their lead over the Angels in the American struck out four in hurling his eighth complete game and third shutout of the season. 
The 28-year-old left-bander allowed only singles by Bobby Grieb leading off the fifth inning and juan Beniquez starting the seventh in winning his ninth game in his last 11 decisions. 
The Royals went ahead to stay in the first inning off losing pitcher Kirk McCaskill, 9-11, on a two-out single by George Brett and a run­scoring double by Hal McRae. The hit was the 2,000th of McRae's big­league career. He bacame the 155th player to accomplish that feat. 
The game attracted 37,813, about 
20,000 shy ofcapacity. 
Blue jays 2, Tigers 1 
TORONTO -Damaso Garcia singled in the winning run in the seventh inning to snap a 1.1 tie and Doyle Alexander bested jack Morris in a pitchers' duel as the Toronto Bluejays defeated the DetroitTigers 2-1 last night. 
The Blue jays entered the game leading the second-place New York Yankees by 1. 5 games in the American League East. 
With one out in the seventh in­ning jesse Barfield singled and stole second. One out later, Garcia singled to left to score Barfield. 
Alexander, 1 5-8, checked the Tigers on seven hits and twice pitched his way out of bases loaded jams. He struckout eight and walked four. 
Morris, 14-10, was overpowering in the early going, striking out the side in both the first and third in­nings en route to a season-high 11 strikeouts. 

Yanks 13, Brewers 10 
MILWAUKEE -Ron Hassey and Ken Griffey hit three-run homers last night as the New York Yankees outlasted the Milwaukee Brewers 13-10 for their 11thconsecutive vic­
tory. 

The win kept the Yankees within 1.% games of the Toronto Blue jays in the American League East. 
The 11-straight wins are the most by a Yankee team since September, 1964. 
New York starter Ed Whitson, 10­7, pitched seven innings allowing eight runs on 12 hits. Bob Shirley came on in the eighth to earn his second save. 
Milwaukee starter Ray Burris, 9­12, got tagged for seven hits and 10 runs in the 5 1/3 innings he pitched. He also yielded a solo home run to designated hitter Dan Pasqua in the fourth. 
The Brewers collected 1 7 hits in the game while the Yankees knocked out 11. 
Phillies 5, Expos 2 

PHILADELPHIA -Mike Schmidt's three-run homer with no outs in the bottom of the 11th gave the Philadelphia Phillies a 5-2 victory over the Montreal Expos last night. 
juan Samuel led off the inning by getting hit by a pitch from Montreal reliever Tim Burke, 8-3. 

Baseball Standings 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Eat  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
NewYorl<  83  53  .810  
St. Louis  82  54  .603  1  
Montreal  73  63  .537  10  
Philadelphia  67  68  .496  15.5  
Chi~  65  71  .478  18  
Pittsburgh  44  90  .328  38  
Weet  
Lee Angeles  81  55  .596  
Cincinnati  71  64  .526  9.5  
San Diego  71  68  .518  10.5  
Houaton  67  69  .493  14  
Adanta  58  79  .423  23.5  
San Francisco  53  83  .390  28  

Yeaterdlly'a Reaulta New York 5, St. Louis 4 Philadelphia 5, Montreal2, 11 inngs. Pittsburgh 2, Chicago 1 San Diego 3, Cincinnati 2 Houston 4, San Francisco 1 LosAngeles10. Atlanta 1 (1st game) Los Angeles to, Atlanta 4 (2nd game) 
RENT BY SEMESTER 
Color TV "Microwave Ovens $70Isemester $50/semester 
Color City 259-7661 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Eat  
w  L  Pet.  Gil  
Toronto  87  51  .630  
New York  85  52  .620  1.5  
Baltimore  72  63  .533  13.5  
Detroit  71  68  .518  15.5  
Boston  68  70  .493  19  
Milwaukee  60  77  .438  26.5  
Cleveland  50  89  .360  37.5  
Weet  
Kanaas City  78  59  .569  
California  77  61  .556  1.5  
Chicago  69  68  .504  9  
Oakland  69  70  .496  10  
Seattle  64  74  .464  14.5  
Minnesota  62  75  .453  16  
Texu  50  87  .365  28  

Yeatercley"a Reaulta Tor onto 2, Detroit 1 Chicago 7, Minneaota 2 New York 13. Milwaukee 10 Kansas City 6. California 0 Baltimore 7. Boston 5 (1a1game) Boston 5. Baltimore 3 (2nd game) Cleveland 8, Sealtle 5 Texas to. Oakland 3 
League West to 1.% games. 
The victory was Kansas City's ninth in its last 10 games, and the Royals are now 32-15 since july 21, when they trailed the Angels by 7% games. 
Leibrandt, 15-7, walked two and 
~------------------------------~
.. 
DISCOUNT RECORDS & TAPES 
Top40Sale 
All the top 40on sale starting at just $5.99 Includes: Dire Straits, Sting Billy Joel 
BLOW-OUT SALE 
on 
BLANKTAPE 
11111111  Maxell  
XLII 90's  
o"\~  

$1.99EACHI 
I YOU CAN WALK TO TRACKS 
I At the corner of Edison Rd & St. Rd. 23 I Just across from the King's Cellar 
I 
I I I I 10 to 9 daily 
1631 E. Edison 1
I I 
noon to 6 Sunday South Bend 1 
I I I I 
I . I 1 INDIANA'S FINEST DISCOUNT RECORD STORE I 
CASH PAID FOR LP's•T APES•CD's 

3000 IN STOCK 
TRACKS HAS IT ALL 
•Imports •Over 1,500 CO's in stock •Classical •Reggae •Blues 12"and45's 
SEE US FIRST 
-I 

only 
FOR CLUB RENTALS CALL: BRYAN DEDRICK 283-1069 239-7521 


~-----------------------------' 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------· 

' 

']I['4CJt.cll4tJL~--------------------------------------~--~.~-~d_n_~.s.·d·a•y•,•S•ep t~.m b_~_r_1_1_,_•_9_8_5_-_r_a_g_e_l
__ __ __l 
Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 


,.,, 
Zeto 

ACROSS 1 Under 6 Quarrel 
11 Unknown fellow 14 Irregularly 
notched 15 Sheer linen 16 "-Blue?" 17 Locust 
relative 19 Boring routine 20 Theater award 21 "All That 
Jazz" man 23 Salad Item 26 Dentate 28 UMW members 29 Discriminatory 
attack 30-John 31 US composer 
Ned 32 Consumed 35 Legal holding 36 Large match 37 Weaver's reed 38 Paving stuff 39 Flexible shoot ~ 1985 Tribune Med1a Services, Inc. 
All Rights Reserved

40 Czech coin 41 Suit maker 
Tuesday's Solution 

43 Songwriter 8 Lacerate 
Kern 9 Frothy brew 44 Two bits 10 Act 46 Araras 11 Cocoa topper 47 City on the 12 Divert 
Mohawk 13 Given a ticket 48 We~tdown 18 -de combat 49 Fr. department 22 Ear: comb. 50 Pretend form 57 -de France 23 Eyelashes 58 Grenoble's 24 Actor e.g. 
river 25 Uris or 59 Show host Spinks 60 Gaelic sea god 26 Actress Marta 61 Actor Bruce 27 Curved molding 62 Freshet 28 Thaw 
29 Difficult 

DOWN question 1 Implore 31 Monger's Item 2 "To -Is 33 Is prolific 
human" 34 Bronte heroine 43 "Calamity-" 51 -was saying 3 Mauna-3ti Rank and-44 Gamebird 52 Barrel 4 Hush·hush org. 37 Poet Teasdale 45 Serviceable 53 Gremlin 5 Occidental 39 B, CorD 46 Old·tlme 54 Recovery 6 Cold and hard 40 Harasses a actress programgp. 7 Editor's performer Normand 55 VFW member 
material 42 Rainbow shape 48 Withered 56 Shoe size 
The Student Activities Board Announces: 


,s,_,.c\4. 

~-_....,., tA,.rf.S .. A..tAf.~HE RENOWNED HYPNOTIST WILL BE 
II~ CONDUCTING A Self-Awareness P .S.I. Workshop 
Wednesday, September 11 7-lOpm Engineering Auditorium cost-$20 at door 
~~~~~~~~-S-~~~~8SSS~~~~8SSS~~~ 




Kevin Walsh 


.... . 
Knowing how It chould change the lives of canines everywhere, the dog scientists struggled diligently to understand the Doorknob Principle. 
Campus 

•6:00 P.M. -General Meeting, Network for Sponsored hy Notre Dame Student Govern­Peace and Justice Meeting, Center for Social ment Concerns Coffee House, Sponsored by Net­•7:00 P.M. -Informational Meeting, Notre work for Justice and Peace Dame/St. Mary's International Student Or­
ganization, Chatauqua Ballroom, Sponsored 
•6: 
I '5 P.M. -General Meeting, Center for So­by International Students Organi7.ation, All cial Concerns, Sponsored by Circle K Notre Dame/St. Mary's Students Welcome 

•6:30 
P.M. -Academic, Notre Dame in •7:1 '5 P.M. -Club Italia Meeting, l.aFortune Jerusalem Program, Dr. Isabel Charles, Notre IJnle Theater Dame, New Orleans Room, LaFortune Student •7:30 P.M.-Organizational Meeting, Notre Center. Sponsored hy Foreign Study Programs Dame FLOC General Organizational Meeting, 


Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by 
•7:00 
P.M.-9:00P.M.-Information Session, FLOC, Notre Dame Student Support Science Placement Night. Various Corporate •7:4'5 P.M. -9:1 '5 P.M. -Organizational Representatives. Hercules Inc., The Travelers Meeting, New Orleans Room, LaFortune Stu-Insurance Co., and ,\terck, Sharp & Dohme, dent Center, Sponsored hy Alternate Realities Memorial Library Auditorium, Sponsored hy •9:00 P.M. -10:00 P.M. -Introductory Career and Placement Servit:es Meeting, Notre Dame/St. Mary's Right to l.lfe 

•""':00 
P.:\1. -Brief Informational Meeting, Introductory Meeting. l.aFonune Little Spedal Olympics Volunteers Meeting, New Theater, Sponsored by Notre Dame/St. Mary's 


Orleans  Room.  LaFortune  Student  Center.  Right to Life  
Dinner Menus  
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
\'eal Parmesan  Turkey Cutlet with Parsley Sauce  

Spaghetti & Shells with Meatballs Filet of Fish Parisien Broccoli Cheese Casserole Spanish Omelet Beef Cheddar Sandwich Pork Chow Mein 
TV Tonight  
7:00P.M.  16  Highway to Heaven  10:00 P.M.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  I Had Three Wives  22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  ABC Movie Special: ").O.E. and  28  Newswatch lH  
the Colonel"  ~  Cradle of the Stars. Part II  
8:00P.M.  16  Facts ofIJfe  46  Calvary Tempk  
22  CBS Wednesday Night Movie:  10:30P.M.  16  Tonight Show  
~·Brass"  22  CBS Late Movie:: "I Take lbese  
~  Country Celebrates America  Men/New Avengers"  
8:30P.M.  16  Double Trouble  28  ABC News Nightline  
46  Renewed Minu  46  Everlasting Gospel  
9:00P.M.  16  St. Elsewhere  10:45 P.M.  34  "The Cowboys"  
28  Hotel  ll:OOP.M.  28  love Connection  
46  lesea Alive  46  Praise the Lord  
9:30P.M:  34  Cradle of the Stars. Part I  

REFRIGERATORS For Rent 
(New 2.6 Cubic ft. Models) Call 282-2801 for student rate 
Support March of Dimes3410 Western Ave 


Sophomores Gretchen Kraus (5) andjill Sugltch (7) gave it their all last night, butNotre Dame was unable to beatOhio State at the ACC in a grueling five-game match. After dominating early, the Irish fell short in the end and lost the match in a 15-5 final game. jim Bucb details the match in his story at right. 
Rose hitless at home 
CINCINNATI-Pete Rose came up empty yesterday in his first attempt to break the tie with Ty Cobb, going 0-for-4 and postponing his date with destiny for at least one night as the Reds lost to the Padres, 3-2. 
Rose tied Cobb's lifetime mark of 4,191 hits last Sunday in Chicago, going 2-for-5. He did not play in the opener of a 1 0-game homestand Monday night against San Diego be­cause the Padres threw a left-bander, Dave Dravecky. 
But, last night, before a packed house at Riverfront Stadium, Rose took his place in the lineup at first base for the Cincinnati Reds against Padres right-hander LaMarr Hoyt, against whom he had an 0-for-2 lifetime mark. 
The Reds player-manager popped out to shortstop twice and lined out to left field twice. It was the fifth time in his past nine games that Rose has gone without a hit, and he is now hitless in his last six at-bats. 
Rose came to bat against Hoyt in the first inning, greeted by a stand­ing ovation and illuminated by the thousands of flashbulbs popping in the stands. When the count went to 3-1, the crowd booed Hoyt, but Rose popped up the next pitch behind 

~---~---~---~-~----~­
Wednesday. Septemher I I. 1985 -page 12 
Irish volleyball team drops tough five-game match to OSU Buckeyes 
ByJIMBUCH seasons, and the Irish coach knows bination, however, Lambert held Sports Writer that things will only get tougher for Morin out of the starting lineup in his squad from here on in. hopes that she could spark the team 
The Notre Dame women's vol­"Even though the team played from the bench. In the third game leyball team played its heart out last well and I'm very pleased with his idea worked. night, but came out on the short end everyone's performance, the team Trailing 8-4 in that game, Lambert 
in an exciting five-game match has to realize that to lose is not the put Morin into the contest, and she against Ohio State at the ACC. name of the game," Lambert noted. gave the team a much-needed lift The Irish won two of the first "This is a young team, so I expect with some crucial hits and timely three games, -and rallied back to wit-that they're going to have their blocks. The Irish went on a 11-4 tear 
. hin one point in the fourth game at peaks and valleys in each game as at that point, and took the third 14-13. With Notre Dame needing well as in the season." game by a three-point margin. just three more points for the win, Notre Dame started a lineup that "I was pleased with Morin's play the Buckeyes regrouped to win the included two freshmen and two sop­offthe bench tonight," said Lambert. crucial fourth game, 15-13, and homores, and Lambert was pleased "She came in and played well and force the match to a decicive flfth with the play ofhis newer players. hard and helped the team's perfor­game. "I'm pleased to see that we're mance." 
Notre Dame never recovered, making an improvement as a team," 
dropping the deciding game by a 15-said the Irish coach. "Tonight Lambert is looking forward to the 5 margin. everyone played well but we just got hard play of Morin, as well as his ot­Earlier, Notre Dame had stormed beat." her players, as the Irish depart from to an early lead by winning the first Lambert's starting lineup in­South Bend on an 11-match road game 15-11 and taking the third cluded senior Mary McLaughlin, trip. Notre Dame will start this game by a 15-12 score. The junior Karen Sapp, sophomores vigorous trip by competing in the Buckeyes took the second game, 1 5-Gretchen Kraus and Jill Suglich and Hoosier Classic with highly-ranked 9, despite some outstanding defense freshmen Mary Kay Waller and Purdue, Indiana, and Butler this 
by the Irish. Maureen Shea. In her first starting as­weekend in Indianapolis. 
Notre Dame dropped to 0-2 with signment of the season, Sapp, along The Irish will not return to the the defeat, while Ohio State won with Shea, was an intergral part of home court until Oct. 19, when they their fifth match in as manv outings. Notre Dame's explosive victory in face North Star Conference rival 
the first game. Butler. 
Irish coach Art Lambert was Notably absent from the starting "I'm looking forward to this pleased with his team's performance lineup was sophomore Kathleen weekend's tournament, as well as all against a heavily-favored opponent, Morin, who helped the team in a the matches this young and exciting but would have been happier if his reserve role for the first time in her team plays," said Lambert. "A road young team had chalked up its career. She had been a starter in trip can be a growing experence for much-needed first victory. Notre every game last season and in this a young team and I am expecting Dame is playing a much tougher year's opening loss to Kentucky. good. things from this long road schedule this year than in past Searching for the right lineup com-trip." 
Notre Dame women's soccer club defeats Saint Mary's in opener, 3-1 
ByANDREA LaFRENIERE game as a varsity. team. There's al­Irish coach Phoebe Hofman said Sports Writer ways a lot of rivalry when we play she was pleased with her team's ef­Notre Dame, and we were too forts. 
The Saint Mary's soccer team psyched up for the match." dropped the first game of its 1985 According to Saint Mary's coach "I thought we played very well," season yesterday at Angela Field to John Akers, the Belles were simply said Hofman. "Everybody hustled. the Notre Dame Women's Soccer outhustled by the Irish. Our bench gave us a lot of support, Club by a score of 3-1. "I think Notre Dame played more and we played well together as a 
Notre Dame freshman Sue Haling aggressively in general," said Akers. team." scored all three goals for the Irish in "They took advantage of the oppor­The Belles travel to Bloomington, the first half of the game and was as­tunities they had. Unfortunately, we Ind., Saturday to play Indiana at I sisted on the plays by sophomore were not able to capitalize on our p.m. Kate Titterton. opportunities." Akers remarked that yesterday's 
Sophomore Beth Hallinan scored Despite the loss, Akers said he was loss is important to the team as it the Belles' only goal in the first half satisfied with the players' efforts, prepares for Saturday's game. of the game. Katy Boldt, a senior particularly those of junior Gloria player, assisted Hallinan in the play. Eleuteri and sophomore Patty Hat­"This loss is a good lesson for us as 
Boldt said that the Belles' attitude field. we go down to Bloomington," said was partially responsible for the loss. "Gloria filled in well at sweeper," Akers. "We've got to be more physi­"I think we were too fired up for he said. "And Patty did a good job at cal, and we've got to move the ball 
the game," she said. "It was our first the goal." more quickly." 
second base to Padres shortstop Garry Templeton. 
Rose came up again against Hoyt as the leadoff hitter in the fourth in­ning. He stepped into the batter's box to the cheers of the crowd, but on the first pitch, he hit a soft liner to Padres left fielder Carmelo Martinez, and he was 0-for-2. 
Leading off the sixth inning against Hoyt, Rose went hitless for a third at-bat, hitting a blooper toward shallow left that Templeton drifted back on and handled without trouble. The count was 2-1. 
In his last chance to break the record for the -night, Rose came up with one out and a runner at second in the eighth inning againt rookie right-handed reliever Lance McCul­lers. Rose took the first pitch, a blazing fastball outside, then hit a line drive toward the gap in left­center. 
For a fleeting moment, it had a chance to drop for The Hit, but Mar­tinez ran in and to his left, making a relatively easy catch on the ball as it hung up long enough for him to reach it on the run. 
After the out, Padres right fielder Tony Gwynn was caught in a swirl of confetti and toilet paper, dumped onto the field by apparently dis­gusted fans who had paid their money only to see Rose come up empty. 

ND students s·hould show class in Ann Arbor 
This weekend, I, like many other Notre Dame and Saint 
the fans. One thing that hasn't changed, though, is the Mary's students, will be traveling to Ann Arbor for the beliefthat the Irish have class. Michigan-Notre Damefootball game. For me, this trip is the There have been times when I've been disappointed, of
Phil 

fulfillment ofa lifelong dream. course. Like when I saw a Notre Dame player take a cheap­I grew up in Michigan, surrounded by "M -Go Blue" shot at an opponent out-of-bounds. Or when the students
Wolf 

bumperstickers. But I am the son of Domer parents. My booed the team in Notre Dame Stadium. But I still cannot 
football education had a definite bias. I learned at an early Assistant Sports Editor get rid of the snobbish God-Made-Notre-Dame-Number­age that the Irish are the good guys. Whoever they play are One attitude that was drilled into me as a child. And I don't the bad guys. want to, either. 
I was about six-or seven-years-old when Mom sat me In September, 1979, I watched from the 50-yard-line as Hundreds of Notre Dame students, like myself, will be down with a piece ofpaper in front ofthe 1Vand explained Chuck Male kicked four field goals to beat the Wolverines, going to Ann Arbor this weekend with exactly the same the game offootball to me. The following weekend, I was 12-10, in Michigan Stadium. A year later, I was sitting in the attitude. Many of them, like me, do not even have tickets, tailgating in Orange Field before my very first football endzone of Notre Dame Stadium when Harry Oliver's 51-so they may be watching the game on a television screen in game. I don't remember what happened in that game, but I yarder gave the Irish a 29-27 victory as time ran out. For a bar. For all ofus, there will be many temptations. remember that the Irish were the good guys and the other some reason, it just felt right. With relative anonimity, we will be set loose in a "real" guys were the bad guys. But still I dreamed ofmore. college town, with bars, pizza places and fraternity houses. 
I also remember learning that we shouldn't cheer when I dreamed of someday being a student at Notre Dame There will be no parietals and no alcohol policies. But still, one of the bad guys gets hurt. And we never boo. Notre and roadtripping to Michigan for an Irish football game. we will not be entirely separated from Notre Dame. Dame players and fans have class, I was told. Everyone will know we are Domers by the way we dress, 
As I grew up, my football knowledge grew, as did my Now that the opportunity has arrived, I can't help but the way we talk and especially the way we act. Whether we Notre Dame bias. Somewhere along the line, I also picked think back on all that I have come to believe about Notre like it or not, our school, beloved to most of us, will be up a strong dislike for the University ofMichigan. I learned Dame football. A lot of the romance is gone, but that is judged by the behavior of the students who travel to Ann that Blue and Gold is better than Maize and Blue. I learned understandable. It's hard to romanticize about people you Arbor. that the Irish have class and the Wolverines don't. The Irish see all the time on campus. Whether the Irish win or lose on the field, we must have had Ara Parseghian, Dan Devine and Gerry Faust, remember that we are supposed to be the good guys. We while Michigan has had Bo Schembechler (the contrast is I have come to know the players and coaches of the have class. We are ND. incredible)-Notre Dame football team, and I certainly know many of Mom will be so proud. 



