
.r-----------~-------------------­
ACC-page8 

II II I

ND attorneys ask to defend suspects in clinic bombings 
lieutenant colonel, has already as­BOB VONDERHEIDE 
By JANE KRA VCIK and 
sisted Shimek and indicated he also 
may ask to enter the case formally. 
He has written books against abor­
Three attorneys associated with tion and has served as a consultant to Notre Dame have asked the U.S. Dis­congressional committees studying trict Court in Pensacola, Fla., to help the power offederal judges in right­defend four people accused of anti­to-life cases. He is affiliated with abortion bombings. Right-to-Life of St. Joseph County, 
The three are: 
Senior staffreporters 
Ind. · 
•
Law School professor Charles Monaghan became involved in Rice, an out-spoken opponent of the right-to-life movement shortly abortion, after the Supreme Court struck 

•South 
Bend attorney Mary down anti-abortion laws in 1973. He Frances Hasson, Rice's daughter and once ran on an anti-abortion plat­a graduate of the Notre Dame Law form in an unsuccessful race for the School. and state senate when he lived in Idaho. 

•Frank 
Booker. director of the Judges had warned Shimek and Notre Dame Legal Aid and Defender the defendants ofpossible conflict of Association. interest in having a single lawyer A r 


Lawyer Thomas Patrick Monag­represent all of them. Shimek has in­­han of Bardstown, Ky., joined the sisted he is the only lawyer in Pen­"" others in asking to join the defense. sacola who "understands the There was no immediate action by scriptural and spiritual aspects" of the trial judge, Roger Vinson. the case. 
The defendants, all so far Matthew Goldsby and James Sim­represented by Pensacola lawyer mons, both 21 and from nearby Can­Paul Shimek, are scheduled to go to tonment, each face nine counts of trial March II. Two are charged violating federal firearms and ex­with a bombing lastjune and all four plosives laws. They are accused of are charged with the Christmas Day conspiracy, making bombings and bombings ofthree buildings. using them to blow up The Ladies 
Last night, Rice said he could not Center, a women's health and abor­talk about the matter because Vin­tion clinic, last June. They also are son had issued a gag order, which charged with bombings Dec. 25 at a prevents attorneys involved from new Ladies Center building the 
The ~/VIc Guarino

discussing the case publicly. offices of two physicians who per­
On Monday, the five attorneys formed abortions. Tugo'War filed a motion to lift the gag order Goldsby's fiancee, Kaye Wiggins, 
Mark Ridinger, a junior from Alumni Hall, tries Lyons team defeated the Fisher-Badin team in a 
because they say it violates the First 18, ofPensacola, and Simmons' wife, 
to hold his ground yesterday as a member of the­contest during halftime of last night's womens' 
Amendment. Kathren, also 18, face seven counts 
Alumni-Lyons coed tug-of-war team. The Alumni-basketball game. 
Rice, a retired Marine Corps each. 
Poet says those who live by humor often die by humor 
ByANNE GALLAGHER in topics from Ann Landers to the el­Other poems of Nemerov's em­scene from an Ann Landers column graduate of Harvard University, SeniorStaffReporter derly reading pornography. ploy the vety ordinary in order to be where a mother doing laundry and Nemerov is currently the Mal­Nemerov opened with readingsof specific. For example, "Pockets" wearing her son's football helmut linkcrodt Distinguished Professor of 
"Anyone who is introduced as "Uterature" and "Writing," works describes the intricate life of the for protection from a leaking pipe, English at Washington University in having a great sense of humor will which he thought were particularly commonplace items in a pocket, a has her privacy invaded by the me­St. Louis. Commenting that he suffer for it later," said Howard suited for a literary festival. life typified by "little vagarant coins ter reader. Although comical, the enjoyed himself so much last night, Nemerov, award winning poet and These were followed by a reading only passing through...over and poem ended on a thoughtful note he said, "With such a friendly audi­last night's guest at the Sophomore of "Reading Pornography in Old around the errogeous zone." which quizzed the audience on the ence, maybe I ought to live here." Uterary Festival. Age," a poem which portrays sex Nemerov's biting humor didn't let purpose oflife. The Sophomore Lfterary Festival 
But the Pulitzer Prize winning au­and sexual terms as mundane and in­up. Reading "Poetics," a poem Thought provoking humor wasn't continues today with a workshop in 
thor didn't appear to suffer at all last sincere in "the laboring world ofthe which he claimed is the answer to all just found in the poems alone. night. He kept the audience laughing money and the garbage and the the questions people have been as­Nemerov read a number of riddles as he read a variety ofpoems ranging kids." king him this week, he described a he had written on a bus, stuck in a 
snowstorm in Maine. 


O'Gara to assume Welch chair in 1985-86 
By JOHN HINES  Fordham University, written  Telephone Company along with  
Staff reporter  numerous articles, editorials, reli­ his wife, an executive of the New  
gious columns and television  York public school system, the  
Following such distinguished  documentaries. Currently, O'Gara  Welch Chair is filled by a visiting  
men of letters as Garry Wills and  is a fellow at St. John University's  professor ofAmerican studies each  
Max Lerner, former editor ofCom­ Institute for Ecumenical and Cul­ year.  
monweal magazine, James O'Gara,  tural Research, in Collegeville,  "There is a set selection process  
has been appointed the W. Harold  Minn.  we must go through," O'Meara  
and Martha Welch Professor of  "We were impressed by some­ said. "The recommendation starts  
American Studies.  one who spent his life editing a  with the Committee on Appoint­ 
University Provost Timothy  prestigious American Catholic  ments and Promotions then goes  
O'Meara announced the appoint­ journal and someone who's been  to the chairman ofthe department,  
ment this week. O'Gara will begin  at the heart of the important issues  then the dean of the college, the  
teaching next fall.  of American Catholibsm," said  provost and, finally, the president,"  
O'Gara retired last year as editor  Professor Donald Costello, chair­ O'Meara explained.  
after 32 years on the staff of Com­ man of the department of Ameri­ A candidate's religion has no  
monweal, a journal of Catholic lay  can studies and the Committee for  direct bearing on his or her ap­ 
opinion. He has served in editorial  Appointments and Promotions  pointment to the Welch Chair.  
positions on the Catholic Worker,  which decided on O'Gara.  O'Gara's appointment is not  
Today, and The Voice ofSt. Jude.  Honoring a 1924 graduate and  
He also has taught sociology at  retired executive ofThe NewYork  see WELCH, page 3  

The point of riddles, he said, is to figure out the answers so that they are no longer puzzling but mysteri­ous. "They are like Christmas," he said, "the farther away, the closer it is." 
All Nemerov's readings weren't centered around humor. Some, like a poem dedicated to a friend who died as a pilot in World War II, were serious in tone and full ofemotional feeling. "To joy, Our Student, Bid­
Howard Nemerov 

ding Adieu," is a personal poem in which Nemerov wrote ofa graduate the library lounge with playwright student who died tragically while joanna Glass at 12:15 p.m. Glass will still in school. read from her works tonight at 8 in 
Yet Nemerov is best known for the library auditorium. the sense of humor in his writing, Novelist Mary Gordon is the which seemed to have been featured author tomorrow. Her recognized by last night's audience. workshop is at 12:15 in the library "There's probably no lower literary lounge and her reading at 8 p.m. in enterprise than humorous writing -the library auditorium. there may be others, but...," said There will also be a production of Nemerov. "I don't mind beingfunny, "Canadian Gothic" by joanna Glass but I mean it." tomorrow at 3 p.m. in LaFortune 
Bocn in New York City and a ballroom. 

----~----------------.. 
The Observer Friday, March 1, 1985-page 2 



In Brief 

Director ofResidence Life and Housing at Saint 
Mary's, Patricia Rissmeyer, has been awarded NASPA's Award of Merit for outstanding programmingduring National Collegiate Alco­hol Awareness Week. The award was announced Jan. 29, 1985, and will be presented to Rissmeyer April 1, 1985, In Portland, Oregon. 'Ibe Alcohol Awareness Week was sponsored at Saint Mary's Oct. 1-6, 1984. The program was part ofa national effort to call attention to the use and abuse ofalcohol on American college campuses. The program stressed both campus and community involvement and was sponsored by the Alcohol Education Council, the Governors' Task Force to Reduce Drunk Driving, student government, and the Division ofStudent Affairs.-The Obseroer 
Wear your seat belts, Missouri. That was the 
word yesterday from the state's legislature when it made Missouri the fifth state in the nation to pass a bill requiring drivers and front­seat passengers to wear seat belts. The bill now awaits the signature of Gov. John Ashcroft, who is expected to sign it soon. New York, New Jersey, Illinois and Michigan have enacted similar laws, and several other state legislatures are considering them in response to a federal initiative. The U.S. government has threatened to require auwmakers to install passive-restraint air bags in cars if states con· taining rwo-thirds ofthe nation's population don't pass seat-belt laws by 1990. -,tp 
A former Libyan ambassador to Austria and 
an opponent of Col. Moammar Khadafy was shot and seriously wounded yesterday in Vienna, Austria, police reported. A police spokeswoman said Ezzeddin Ghadamsi was rushed to a hospital. The nature of his injuries were not immediately known. The attack oc­curred on a Vienna street, police said. Some reports said he was shot in front of the former Ubyan ambassador's residence. The police spokeswoman said Ghadamsi was "deposed" as Ubyan ambassador by Khadafy several years ago. -AP 
Of Interest 

The issue is unionization. The South Bend 
school district secretaries are not being allowed to unionize. They are taking their case to the South Bend school board this evening at 
7:30 at LaFayette School, 245 N. Lombardi Dr. Transportation will be available for anyone interested In attending this meeting. Call Bob Schultz at 234-6031. -The Obseroer · 
The Notre Dame French Club wm celebrate 
Mass and dinner this Sunday in Pasquerilla East. The cost for the 
dinner is 13. RSVP today by caillngJackie Bernard (283-3786) or 
Greg Davis ( 283-2243). -The Obseroer 

The 11th Annual Phone-a-Thop at Saint 
Mary's will take place March 4-7 from 6 to 10 p.m. in J?3 Haggar College Center. The goal this year Is to raise 175,000 for the Annual Fund. Individuals and groups wishing to help may call Julie Straz­zabosco at 284-5229. ·The Obseroer 
An Tostal '85 Anyone interested in helping with the weeks activities (i.e. mud pit, bookstore basketball, jail, dating game, pie throwing, etc.) should attend a meeting Sunday night at 7:15 in the Ubrary Auditorium. -The ObsenJer 
Drops in college boardexam scores are not the fault ofpoor schools. Research reported in Psychology Today found scores fall 20 points for each additional child in a family. Thus, the larger families popular in the •50s caused the test score decline and the smaller families of the '60s and '70s account for the recent trend of higher scores. -The Obseroer 

Weather 

It will be nice tomorrow, 
with partly sunny skies and cool temperatures. The high tomorrow will be around 40. Increas­Ing cloudiness and mild today. High in the mid to upper 40s. Becoming partly cloudy and a little colder tonight, with a low in the upper 20s. ·AP 

The Observer 
The Observer (USPS W9 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, exc<:pt during <:xam and vacatlon periods. The Observer Is publish<:d by th<: stud<:nts of the llnlvenlty of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Coll<:gc. Subscriptions may be purdutscd for HO per year ( SlO per ..,. m<:st<:r) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Nou<: Dame, Indiana 4M~6. 
Th<: Observer is a member of The Aaeoclated Press. All reproduction rights an: re""rved. 
Today's issue was produced by: 

Design Editor ................. Maureen Murphy Design Assistant ............ Matt Graclanette Layout Staff...................... Marid Labrador janette Burns 
Typesetters ...................... Bill Highducheck 
Vic Sciulli News Editor .................... Bob Vonderheide Copy Editor.............................. )ane Kravclk Sports Copy Editor.................. Larry Burke Viewpoint Copy Editor .........john Heasly Viewpoint Layout................)ohn Mennell Features Copy Editor ..........John MenneII Features Layout ................... Andi Schnucl< ND Day Editor ...................... Mark Winters SMC Day Editor ............................. Ed Nolan Ad Design ............................ )ohn O'Connor 
Mary Carol Creadon Pbotograpber ...........................Vic Guarino Typist ................................ Bill Highducheck 



No meat on Friday is simply religious discrimination 
Religious discrimination. It's an ugly concept, but it exists at Notre Dame. 
No, this is not an article about denying non-Catholic religious groups the opportunity to gather in campus facilities, although that is a prime example. And it is not an article about the harrassment ofnon-Catholic faculty members, although that is something which is likely to adversely affect all Notre Dame students before they graduate. 
This is something which hits us all much more deeply: the lack ofmeat in dining halls on Fridays. 
Believe it or not, there are persons at Notre Dame whose religious beliefs give them no reason to abstain from meat on Friday. They probably do not understand this strange Church rule. Many Catholics do not com­pletely understand this strange Church rule. I am one of them, but I have no objection to following it. 
Some small spark of self-respect, buried deep inside where the administration's in loco parentis has been unable to extinguish it, resents this treatment. This is probably the same primal craving which induces me 
to do my own laundry on oc­real bacon bits) or serving casion. I resent being told, bologna in the deli line by people who aren't any would suffice. better at it than I am, how I With the option to sines­can sin. tablished, Catholics can 
After all, we all have a make a virtuous choice to right to sin. refrain from doing so -or if 
O.K., so ifI'm so set on sin­they wish, to risk God's ning, I could go to the wrath and nibble a bacon Huddle and get a bit. Non-Catholics can fol­"Huddleburger," or since I low their conscience and eat respect my stomach's meat ifthey want, or partici­feeling's, a chicken sand· pate in an exercise in 
wich. That is not the point. I give up nothing by not going to the Huddle, since I would not ordinarily go there. There is no virtue In not doing something one would not normally do. 
Those several hundred non-Catholics could certainly go to the Huddle; a dollar and a half is a small price to pay for avoiding having another religion imposed upon them. A dollar and a half wasn't so much for a poll tax either, but that was discriminatory. 
This may seem like a very esoteric argument, but I have heard complaints about the meatless Fridays from Lent of my freshman year. Many of these have come from people who do not like fish or manicotti cheese. I'll admit that manicotti is not my favorite, but fish is tolerable. Arguing that one doesn't like fish is not valid. There are a lot of things at the dining hall we don't like, and some we do. That's life at the big dome. 
I have never heard an argument regarding the dining hall policy that made much sense. It only seems to be another example ofregulation designed to prevent stu­

Tom Mowle 
Day Chief 

one to prevent us from eating meat. We'll have to make that choice on our own. 
There Is only one argument which is potentially valid. If a regular dinner were served, almost no one would eat it, and a lot offood would be wasted. That is true, and I am not in favor ofwasting food just to make a point. 
Granting, however, that it would be a tremendous inconvenience for the dining halls to serve roast beefau jus to people who will piously avoid eating it, I propose a less difficult and less ex­pensive. Something as small as putting bacon bits at the salad bar (assuming they are 
ecumenism. The dining halls would not have to spend much extra money to leave this option open. And the workers would not have to listen to those poor heathen 
students ask, "Why isn't there any meat today?" 
The Observer encourages the free expres­sion ofopinions through letters to the editor. Letters should be brief (approximately 250 words) and typed whenever possible. All let­ters should be signed (although the author's name need not be published), and should in­clude a phone number at which the author may be reached. Letters are published on a space-available basis. Letters are edited to correct errors in grammar and for space con­siderations. 

Advice 
·_4.· 
....~ 
FORM1 

claim no exemptions for age or blindness, claim no dependents, your income is only from wages, salaries, tips and interest of$400 or less. and your taxable income is less than $50.000 you may be able to use the For.n 1040EZ. Check your tax instruc­tions for details. 
In the coming yeera, 1ervlce lndu1trle1 will repre1ent one of the f••te•t-growlng 1ector1 of the Amerlcen economy. If you're 1tudylng m•n8f1ement, you're leernlng the 1klll1 that will be eiHntl•l to •ervlce lndu1try productivity_ 
The Place To Be... 
Saga Corporation 11 the netlon'l Ieeder In food1ervlce. There'• no beHer pl•ce to •pply your m•negement degree than Saga Food1ervlce for college• end unlver1ltle1, ho1pltel1 or re1taurant1. 

The Place To Be... 
Find out more about a $1 billion food1ervlce le•der whole plan• for further growth rel•te directly to the career opportunity you're earning In your menegement 1tudle1. Sag• repre1entatlve1 will be at Notre D•me on M•rch 11th. Check with • Placement Office to arrenge your Interview. 

Meet Saga Corporation Monday, March II 
Equ•l Opportunity Employer M/F 


The Observer 

case,

Kevin Cronin, not the lead singer of REO Speedwagon but a 
Bourbon, a spokeswoman for Dis­
sophomore from Stanford Hall, display his skill at the keyboard. 
trict Attorney Robert Morgenthau,
Cronin is a member ofthe Notre Dame Jazz Band, which perform­
said yesterday. 

ed last night in the Nazz. 
Open at 11om for Lunch 

You've been stl)dying for Domino's Deluxe hours. The pages are 5 items for the price of 4: blurring and your siOmach Pepperoni. Mushrooms. is stirring. So why not take Onions. Green Peppers a break and call Domino's and Sausage Pizza? We'll be there with 12" deluxe$ 8.55 a hot, custom-made pizza 16" deluxe $12.35 in 30 minutes or less. Guaranteed! All of our 
Electives pizzas are made with 

Pepperoni, Mushrooms. 100% real dairy cheese 
Black Olives. Onions. 
and fresh, not frozen. 

Green Olives. Sausage. 
toppings. Now isn't that Ground Beef. Ham. Green 

worth con18mplating! 

Peppers. Double Cheese Extra Thick Crust 12" pizza$ .89 per item 
Menu 16" pizza $1 .29 per item 
All Pizzllslnclude Our Coke·'i16oz. bottles, 

Special Blend of Sauce 
59¢ . 
.net 100% Reel Cheese Our drivefs carry less Our Superb Cheese Pizzll 

than $20.00 12"cheese$4.99 L~ 16"cheese$7.19 ~ 

Pnc:a do not •ndude ~sa&es tax c 1984 Oomno·s Pizza. Inc 
~ -­
U.S. trade deficit jumps 28 percent in January, but exports hit high 
·--­
~----------­
Friday, March 1, 1985-page 3 
WASHINGTON · The United States foreign trade deficit hit S10.3 billion in January, a 28 percent jump from the previous month, as a flood of imports swamped the country's best export performance in more than three years, the government said yesterday. 
Analysts said a rebounding U.S. economy and the strong dollar led to the import gains and they predicted those factors would combine to ensure America's trading woes would worsen further this year. 
The Commerce Department said the January deficit was up from an $8 billion deficit in December as im­ports rose 9.2 percent, to a new total of S29.7 billion, the highest monthly figure since last September. 
Exports rose by a smaller 1.4 per­cent inJanuary but the monthly total of Sl9.4 billion was the highest monthly figure since U.S. firms sold Sl9.55 billion abroad in September 1981. 
However, analysts discounted part of the export growth, saying it was the result ofa surge in auto parts sales to Canada following a strike­related slowdown in purchases in previous months. 
Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige, viewing the bleak January figures, predicted that the U.S. trade deficit this year would hit $140 bil­iion, up sharply from last year's record deficit of $123.3 billion. 
Baldrige blamed the deterioration on the continued strength ofthe dol­lar plus expected further growth in domestic demand. He predicted ex­ports, which rose 9 percent in 1984 despite the strength of the dollar, would rise by a similar amount this year. 
The dollar plunged sharply in frantic trading on Wednesday after a concerted effort by European gov­ernments to drive the price down, but it appeared to have stabilized on yesterday and some experts said it could begin rising again in coming weeks. 
In other economic news yester­day: 
The National Association ofReal­tors said sales of existing homes climbed 4.5 percent inJanuary to an annual rate of 3 million units, the highest total since last April. 
Goetz case could be resubmitted 
NEW YORK· The case of subway gunman Bernhard Goetz could be resubmitted to a grand jury follow­ing revelations that he calmly plot­ted his line of fire and shot twice at one offour victims. 
"We have been considering" resubmitting the Mary de 
"This is not to say we will do it. 
r·--·------------------,
Pay only $5.99 lor a$5.99 12" one item pizza and 2 Cokes'
Special 
Good Fri., Sat.. and Sun. only 
~ 


L•••••••~:~--~---------J 
DOMINO'S PIZZA 
DEUVERST~ 
FREE. 

You have to have a substantial basis to do it, a basis other than, you didn't like the first result," she said. 
Meanwhile,Justice Stephen Crane of state Supreme Court, the trial court, said he would consider per­mitting Morgenthau to resubmit the case. 
Goetz was indicted only on weap­ons possession charges by a grand jury that also considered charges up to attempted murder in the Dec. 22 shootings. 
State law prohibits presenting a case to a grand jury twice unless the district attorney shows new evidence, a clear indication that the grand jury failed to conduct a com­plete and impartial investigation, or some procedural or technical irreg­ularity. 
The revelations about the shoot· ings included a statement from a New Hampshire police officer, C.T. Domian, who said Goetz told him "he shot each ofthe individuals once and then went back to the last indi­vidual and shot that individual again, thinking he had missed him the first time because there wasn't any evidence ofblood on the person." 
Goetz, who turned himself in, told Domian that before firing the fifth shot, he said to the youth, "You seem to be all right, here's another." 
According to police, all four teen­agerswere shot once, and a fifth shot missed. It is not clear whether the fourth victim was injured with the first shot, or when Goetz shot again. 
Domian said Goetz "indicated he drew a pattern of fire prior to the shooting taking place, indicating that he was going to shoot from left to right in the quickest and most ef­fective manner possible. He indi­cated speed was everything." 
The transcript of the officers' statements was released after a hearing Wednesday in state Su­preme Court at which Morgenthau's office supplied Goetz's lawyers with copies of various tapes and state­ments by Goetz. 

Bernhard Goetz 

In an interview with The New York Times at his apartment Wed­nesday, Goetz said the officers' state­ments were "essentially accurate," but did not elaborate. Goetz spoke instead about what he says is the need for citizens to arm themselves. 
His lawyer, Barry Slotnick, said the statements were "a bill of par­ticulars taken out of context from the full set of circumstances. Please don't look to an out-of-context state­ment for a determination of his ac­tions." 
O'Neill draws the battle line 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill Jr. said yesterday the House will set up a showdown with President Reagan over the pres­ident's threatened veto of a bill con­taining credit aid for farmers and development help for drought· stricken Africa. 
The Senate passed the measure Wednesday, and O'Neill said he planned to speed it to the House floor for final approval -bypassing a 
Welch 
continuedfrom page 1 
viewed by either Costello or O'Meara as being necessarily depen­dent on his being a prominent Cath· olic or as a means of reaffirming Notre Dame's Catholicity. 
"It is a natural thing to happen at a Catholic university," said O'Meara. 
"We look for a man ofletters, one who deals in a prominent way with writen communication, but also one more time-consuming House-Senate conference to work out differences in the two bodies' versions. 
Told that Reagan has indicated he likely would veto the measure if it reaches his desk in its current form, O'Neill told reporters, "We'll give him the opportunity." 
In addition to the credit-relief measures already approved by the House and Senate, the House yester­day voted 294-11 5 to make available an additional S I billion in federal loan guarantees for farmers. 
who deals with some aspects of American culture," said Costello. 
O'Gara will teach two American Studies courses next fall, AMST 330: God and Mammom in America, and AMST 314: Writing and Editing. 

The first will deal with Catholic social thought and the U.S. eco­nomic policy. The second is a course focusing on improving basic nonfic­tion writing skills. A one credit mini­course, Nine American Catholics, examining the lives and work of several significant figures in Ameri­can Clltholicism, also will be taught byO'Gara. 
The Observer Friday, March 1, 1985 -page 4 
Mechanics and baggage handlers go on strike at Pan Am 
Workers Union, said Pamela Hanlon, 
a Pan Am spokeswoman. 
NEW YORK . Mechanics and The TWU struck after rejecting a baggage handlers went on strike at 20 percent wage increase over three Pan American World Airways yester-years plus bonuses, in return for in-day, sending thousands of stranded creased productivity and reduced travelers to competing airlines. health and pension benefits. 
Union officials warned of a long "I think it is going to be a long walkout. strike," said the union's airline divi-
Most of the carrier's 19,000 uni-sion director, John Kerrigan, who onized employees, including pilots, announced the strike of 5,753 mec­were honoring picket lines set up hanics, baggage handlers, flight dis-about 12:30 p.m. yesterday. 
Normally, Pan Am operates about 400 flights daily, carrying 39,000 passengers to 89 cities on six con­tinents, Hanlon said. 
It had scheduled I 5 flights yester­day-only one ofthem domestic -out of airports in San Francisco, New York, Los Angeles and Miami, Han-ion said. 
"They just stranded us in Or­lando," said Rose Simon, who had Miami. "We got some passengers to­gether and hired a car to drive to Miami. And they sent my baggage to Tampa." 
In Los Angeles, more than 500 people with Pan Am tickets gathered in the airport terminal, said police Sgt. Patrick Turner. In Detroit, more than 100 were transfered to other airlines. 
More than 1,000 management personnel replaced ticket agents out with the TWU, Hanlon said. Taped messages recorded by Pan Am advised stranded passengers to seek alternate flights. 
The union says a 14 percent wage increase it postponed in 1982, when Pan Am, faced bankruptcy, has yet to be restored. 
Pan Am had a pre-tax operating loss of J I06.7 million last year. It has not made a profit since 1980, and has cut more than 8,000 jobs in the 

nat.I<.Jn•w..id•e...b.y....th•e............;~;·;;~..~an•d..fo•o•d•se..rv..ic•e•w•o•r•k•e•r•s•at..•b•e•e•n•o•n..a•fl•iigh•t..fr•o•m..N•e•w..Y•o•r•k•t•o..•a•n•d•r•e•s•e•rv•a•t•io•n..d•e•r•ks···w•h•o..s•ta.y11ed~~--~~--~~............. 
TOMORROW'S WINNERS ••• BASF I SWEEPSa~ ... 8 
'1.00 On All '5.99 Albums and Cassettes In Stock!
An Exclusive Camelot OHerl 
HUNDREDS OF rm.& AVAIUBUI
Save 5 I 8 on BASF Video 6-Paclcsl 
T-120/L-750 

VCfJOIIfABU 5JfRf051 
...,So.,..,...,Stntlnpl 
.........a...;,.,,.,___ 
SALE 
$J4999 

Ill Reg Price •6.99 ''1==----· Sale Price 5.99 Mfg. Rebate -1.00 
54 99 
FINAL COST 

Columbia, A&M. London. MCA, Capitol, Arista. RCA, Polygram...and Morel 

FUJI VIDEOCASSEI IES 
Performance Acclaimed by Professionals! 
AA and AAA 4-Packs! 
lillY RW• AND SAVf"MOirll

Reg. 13.99 
4-Pack Savingsand Fuji'• $5 Rebale Bring•

FINAL COST 
Your Co11 Down lo Ju11 '4.49 11"' TaP"! 

'2.H 
Standard Grade T-120/L-750

After Reb.l.. Aloo Available 
4-Pack Reg. '27" C&D 2-packo 
Sale 122.96

and 9 Volt: 
Juot Mfg. 
Rebate -1r.oo Mfg. 
FINAL 
Rebate -15.00 COST 
FINAL 
$J796 
COST 

-

CAMElOT MUSIC University Park Mall 
ISMUSIC JliiDMOllEI 272-4186 
Pricing good lhrough March 13, 1H5. Unlvenlty Pllrk Movie Dept.-a.le or Ren•l 
The Observer Friday, March 1, 1985 -page 5 
Shultz says U.S. wants to talk to Nicaraguans 
Assoclated Press \X ASHINGTON-The Reagan ad­
minbtratiun  said  yesterday  it  is  
"perfectly willing"  to  talk  with  
Nicaragua.  

However, they dismissed as probably meaningless an offer by President Daniel Ortega to send home 100 Cuban military advisers and impose a moratorium on ac­quiring new arms systems. 
"It is relevant to ask why they bother," Vice President George Bush told the Austin Council on Foreign Relations in Texas. He said the 100 advisers are about 1 per­cent of the Cubans in Nicaragua and that the army cannot absorb new weapons now. 
On the face of it, Bush said in a speech, the steps taken by Ortega "do not appear to represent signifi­cant moves." 
But Secretary of State George Shultz, flying to Ecuador, said he was "perfectly willing" to meet with Ortega next weekend when they attend the inauguration of Uruguayan President Julio San­guinetti in Montevideo. "I'll listen carefully to what he says," Shultz said.­
U.S.-Nicaragua relations were heading toward a boil before Or­tega announced his "unilateral in­itiatives and decisions" in Managua on Wednesday night, producing a subdued although skeptical response from the administration. 
Shultz said that in view of the "several thousand" Cuban military advisers in Nicaragua, the withdrawal of 100 would be only a "token" gesture. 
"But if the token is something that will lead to rather massive reductions, that's something else again," he said. 
As for the weapons-system freeze, Shultz said there has been a "rather massive build-up of hard­ware" in Nicaragua "and it may well be that they've gotten what they needed. Anyway, if there is a cessation in the military build-up then that's welcome." 
President Reagan and Shultz, possibly in a campaign to gain con­gressional approval of renewed 
U.S. aid to rebels in Nicaragua, had challenged the legitimacy of Or­tega's government and suggested 
they would like  to  see  it over­ 
thrown.  
The  Nicaraguan  leader  had  

accused the administration. in 
turn, of"aggravating the climate of  sentiment in the House apparently  whether to go ahead with the new  
tension in the region (through) a  against a resumption and the Sen­ MX  intercontinental  ballistic  
campaign ofcalumnies and lies."  ate slightly in favor ofit.  missile.  
Congress halted covert U.S. aid  The  ban  technically  ends  Bush suggested Ortega's "peace  
to the rebels, known as "contras,"  Thursday.  Congress  is  not  ex­ initiative" could be in response to  
six months ago. The administra­ _pected to deal with the issue until  growing support  for  the  rebels  
tion is seeking S14 million, with  it  resolves  another  controversy:  among the Nicaraguan people.  

Internal stress behind change in attitude 
Associated Press solution ofthe problems and to eliminate the altern­
ative ofwar and increase the possibilities ofpeace." 
MANAGUA, Nicaragua -Nicaragua's offer to stop He invited a bipartisan congressional committee its military buildup in exchange for renewed talks to an unrestricted visit to confirm that Nicaragua's with the United States reflects the pressure created military is strictly defensive, said he was willing to by isolation, a shattered economy, a costly guerrilla send 100 Cuban military advisers home, and war and growing domestic discontent. pledged to stop acquiring new weapons. 
The leftist Sandinista government, which sided White House spokesman Larry Speakes said yes­with Cuba and the Soviet bloc soon after it seized terday that Ortega's offer "appears to be change power in July 1979, now finds itself isolated from without substance and we will have to wait and see if formerly friendly nations in Western Europe, distant there are further developments." from Soviet supplies and bordered by hostile neigh­He said 100 departing Cubans were insignificant bors in Central America. among the thousands ofCastro's military and civilian 
It also is being squeezed economically by the personnel estimated to be in Nicaragua. United States, which cut off aid long ago and pro­As for the arms pledge, Speakes said, "They have vided aid to-16,000 armed rebels. already indicated they would not be able to handle 
President Daniel Ortega made a series of moves much more weaponry immediately because of the this week designed to placate the United States and large amounts they have received in their buildup of bring it back to bilateral talks it suspended in Janu­the last several years." ary. Secretary of State George Shultz said, however, 
Ortega was almost conciliatory when he said of that he would be willing to meet Ortega today if it the proposals: "we hope President Reagan considers could be arranged, and would "listen carefully to them and accepts them and contributes to a peaceful what he says." · 

277-1875 

Group urges end to deportations 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Bitterly denouncing "scandalous policies" of the Reagan administration, more than 200 U.S. religious leaders yes­terday pleaded for a halt to deporta­tions of Salvadoran and Guatemalan refugees and an end to the jailing of American church workers who try to shelter them. 
Bishops rubbed shoulders with refugees, Protestant denomination presidents, a rabbi and an indicted churchwoman in a crowded Meth­odist chapel across the street from the Capitol as the group tried to bring national attention to the long­simmering issue of the nation's "sanctuary movement." 
Reacting strongly to recent ar­rests of Americans who had given refugees sanctuary in the Southwest -and to convictions of two workers in Texas -the leaders said it was the government that was guilty ofviolat­ing U.S. law in returning refugees to face the threat of death in their homelands. 
The group presented petitions as­king Congress to investigate the gov­ernment's conduct and said the Senate will indeed hold such hearings. 
The Reagan administration, which strongly supports the governments of El Salvador and Guatemala, has sent thousands of refugees back to those countries on grounds that they came to the United States for economic reasons, not out offear of persecution at home as they claim. 
Administration officials defend the indictments ofAmerican church workers -and the use of infiltrators with concealed tape recorders -~ part of their obligation to pursue people suspected of breaking laws concerning illegal aliens. 
However, the church leaders said many of the refugees would appear well qualified for asylum on the 1980 Refugee Act's grounds of "persecution or a well-founded fear ofpersecution" at home. 
They said it was an American's le­gal right, ifnot obligation, to protect refugees from conditions of .death 
and terror. And they dismissed U.S. government contentions that things have cl:tanged in a nation such as El Salvador. 
There may have been "a momen­tary drop" in Salvadoran assassina­tions and disappearances "from thousands to hundreds," said the Rev. Avery Post, president of the United Church of Christ. But he added, "Is that any comfort at all?" 
The administration's "scandalous policy is now beginning to interfere directly with the right of religious congregations to provide humanitarian aid to refugees," said Bishop Francis Murphy ofBaltimore. 
A list of signers of letters to con­gressional leaders asking for inves­tigations included 10 Roman Catholic bishops, four Episcopalian bishops, 12 Lutheran bishops from several branches of the denomina­tion, seven Methodist bishops, top officials from other Protestant denominations, the past president of the Synagogue Council of America and nine otherJewish rabbis. 

SUNDAY 

ALL YOU CAN EAT COUNTRY FRIED CHICKEN $4.50 
THURS. 11:30-2 P.M./ 5:30-8 P.M. 
MEXICAN BUFFET 
$4.95 

INCLUDES TACOS, BURRITOS, ENCHILADAS, CHIPS & SALSA/ TOSTADAS & MORE! WITH $1.00 MARGARITAS 
HAPPY HOUR PARTY 
3:00 to 6:00 P.M. 
$1.00 COCKTAILS/ .50¢ DRAFTS 
F~EE POPCORN/ P~££ CHIPS & SALSA/ NACHOS/ TACOS I PIZZA/ MEATBALLS/ CHICKEN WINGS & MORE! 
Six N. Ireland police are killed by guerrillas 
Associated Press At least six other officers were 
seriously wounded in the attack, the 
NEWRY, Northern Ireland -At spokesman said. Three or four offi­least six police officers were killed cers received minor wounds. yesterday when IRA guerrillas fired 
mortars at the heavily fortified police base at Newry, police re­ported. At least three shells that exploded  A spokeswoman at police headquarters in Belfast reported "at least 1 7 casualties, some of them serious" in the attack.  
inside the base on the border with  The  outlawed  Irish  Republican  
the  Irish  Republic  hit  a  canteen  Army said in a statement telephoned  
packed with officers on an evening  to news organizations in Belfast, the  
tea break, said a police spokesman,  capital, that its fighters carried out  
who declined to be identified.  the attack.  
"  

'ff!:~~;s~;:s:~~:S~>:S:~~:S~S'i:S~>:S:~~;s~;:s:~~:S~~ 

Erasmus Books 
1027 E. Wayne Tues -Sun, noon -6 1 block south of Jefferson & Eddy 


Used & out of print books bought, sold, searched 
"This was a major and well­

planned operation, indicating our 
ability to strike where and when we 
decide," the IRA statement said. 
Police said the mortars were fired 

by remote control from the backofa 
hijacked truck parked several blocks 
from the police post, which is in the 
center ofthe mainly Roman Catholic 
town and ringed by houseS". 
Rescue teams dug through the rubble searching for bodies. They worked in darkness because aut­horities feared lights would enable IRA snipers to fire on the officers. 
Heavily armed troops and police sealed off Newry, but the attackers were believed to have slipped back across the border into the Republic before the mortars were fired. 
Communication & Theatre Film!ll at the Snite lndiv. admission $2.50 Series tickets also available 
Frt.Mar.1 Mon.Mar.4 Tues.Mar.S Pascal Thomas' Ermanno Olmt's Alfred Hitchcock's 1954 classic Heart tg Heart (1978) Tree of Wooden Closs (1978) Rear Window The story of three sisters as they grow up. 7:00pm with Jimmy Stewart and Grace Kelly 
A
COrlliNJniCflnor. 
6 IHfRIRf 


~-~----~ ------------~ 
The Observer 
Friday, March 1, 1985-page 6 
Cells that protect body may lead to cancer 

BOSTON -Germ-killing blood cells that ordinarily protect the body from disease can also cause cancer in lab animals, and that may explain why years ofchronic inflam­mation heighten people's risk of some kinds of tumors, researchers say. 
Their work, conducted at Massa­chusetts General Hospital, provides clues to the origins of a variety of common human malignancies, in­cluding cancers of the colon, lung and breast. 
The white c~ls, called phagocytes, are the blood's foot sol­diers and garbage cleaners. They surround bacteria and other germs and kill them, and they also gobble up worn-out normal cells. In the course of both of these duties, they release toxic chemicals known as 
free radicals. 

The new work suggests these same chemicals can damage ordi­nary tissue and even make it turn cancerous If the exposure persists for a long time. 
So far, they have observed thls ef­fect in the test tube and in mice, pro­vlding indirect evidence, they say, 
Purdue team finds secrets of blood 
WEST LAFAYETI'E, Ind. -A Purdue University research team has discovered how the body rids itself of old blood, a breakthrough that may prolong the shelf-life of blood stored in blood banks. 
The team, headed by Phillip Low, chemistry professor, may have un­raveled one ofthe mysteries ofaging by learning how the body
r 
recognizes and removes the old blood cells from circulation. Under­standing that process also may im­prove treatment for diseases such as sickle cell anemia, Low said. 
"Scientists have long recognized there are antibodies designed to remove old cells from circulation. What we didn't know was how the antibodies distinguished old cells from younger cells," Low explained. 
Areport ofthe team's findings was published in the February issue of Science magazine by Low and coworkers Stephen Waugh, Karen Zinke and Detlev Drenckhahn. 
The team discovered changes oc­curring In the composition of aging 
red blood cells that trigger a reac­tion from antibodies, which absorb the cells and remove them from cir­culation. 
Low traced a series of subtle changes In cells that had circulated an average of 120 days. 
When the cell ages, hemoglobin, the protein carryinng oxygen from the lungs to tissues, changes form and causes another key body protein, known as band three, to cluster within the cell membrane, Low explained. 
"The presence of these clusters provides the recognition site for an­tibodies directed against aging cells," Low said. "The antibodies then bind to the cell and trigger its removal from circulation." 
Low believes a similar process oc­curs to remove abnormal cells, such as those present in the disease known as sickle cell anemia. 
"A number of diseases caused by 

unstable hemoglobins seems to promote an accelerated aging process," Low said. "In these in­stances, the hemoglobin denatures earlier, resulting in band three clus­tering and the consequent 
premature removal ofblood cells." 
that the same thing may be happen­
ing in people. 
"There has long been known to be an association between chronic in­flammation and cancer," said Dr. Thomas Stossel, one ofthe research­ers. 
One example is ulcerative colitis, a chronic bowel inflammation that constantly bathes the bowel with phagocytes. During the first 20 years of this disease, the cancer risk Is relatively low. But then the rate of colon cancer rises quickly. 
When people smoke cigarettes, bits of soot become lodged in the lungs, and phagocytes roam about, eating them up. 
"It's possible that the association between lung cancer and smoking is in part due to these radicals," Stossel said in an interview. 
Throughout the body, cells are constantly wearing out and being replaced. This turnover is especially rapid in the ducts of the female 
breast, where new tissue is built every month. Essential to this Hand -~urgery process are the phagocytes, which cart away the dead cells. The re­Roger De Wendt of holland recuperates in a searchers believe that, over time, Louisville, KY., hospital following surgery to this constant exposure to free radi­repair his hand which was damaged during an cals could contribute to the devel­escalator accident. Doctors transplanted joints 
opment ofbreast ':~cer. 
APPho1o 

from the boy's toes to his knuckles during this rare surgery. Citizens of Holland donated newspapers and proceeds from their recycling to help pay for the surgery. 
'~-------------------------------------------------------' 
~----------------------------------------------~
* 
Sunshine Promotions presents 

with Special Guest WASP! Saturday, March 23, 8:00 pm Notre Dame A. C. C. aese1rwe:u seats $12.50...General Admission $11.50 

Tickets available at the ACC Box Office. Select Sears. Select Robertson's. The Elkhart Truth. J.R.'s Music Shop (LaPorte). World Records (Goshen). Music Magic (Benton Harbor). Night Winds...(Mishawaka and Niles). St. Joseph Bank (Main Office). and Karma Records (Ft. Wayne). 
* Tickets on sale today! 
* 


~i~~~_<>__i_Il__t_________________Fri_d~-,M-M-ch~1,~19~85--p~~e7 
Life and the practical theory of relativity 
As I was thinking about something to write this week, I thought about the final words ofa song I know, "Just remember this, there are two sides to every question." 
I have come to realize this more and more while here at Notre Dame, a predominantly 
Michael Froning in the minority 
conservative school, because I have a predominantly liberal background. So as I pondered these words, I thought ofwhat they meant in general and to myself. 
The first word which came to mind was tolerance. The real message is that tolerance is essential to the success and continuation of our democratic society. What they mean to me is that right and wrong are really relative terms and what is right for one person may be wrong for another and vice versa. 
This may not seem a terribly radical con­cept, but actually is. How many times have we encountered another viewpoint and emphati­cally denied it as "wrong"? We've all done that, and have all had prejudices towards people who hold certain viewpoints we see as wrong, either morally or practically. 
An example of a "moral" issue might be homosexuality. There are many who feel that homosexuality is morally wrong. Some even discriminate against homosexuals by not hiring them because of their sexual prefer­ence and others abuse them verbally or physi­cally. 
Those with a little more tolerance may not like homosexuality and even think it wrong, but tend not to judge people based on sexual preference. Rather, they judge a person by his or her character and personality. 
The point being homosexuality may not be right for you, indeed you may think it "wrong," but a value judgment such as this is only valid for you personally. 
Agood example ofa "practical" issue is nu­clear arms. Many argue that to have nuclear weapons is wrong from a practical (and moral) standpoint if the human race is to survive. The more weapons we have, some say, the more likely we are to kill ourselves. 
Yet others argue with just as much convic­tion that nuclear weapons are necessary for survival. If we are to survive, some say, we must be strong enough to deter aggression. 
Which is right and which is wrong? It basi­cally doesn't matter in our society. In a dic­tatorship it would matter because everything would work according to one policy. But in our society, everyone helps decide the rules, so beliefs and values must be compromised. This is the price to pay for being able to have different beliefs. l believe it to be a small one. 
l also believe the key to success and happi­ness in our society is to be tolerant. Tolerant of other's beliefs, actions and habits (so long as they don't infringe upon other rights), even though they may be vastly different from our own. 
Homosexuals, pro-abortion advocates, Equal Rights Amendment supporters, ultra­conservatives, bleeding-heart liberals, people who disagree with the pope or people who speak out against any of our sacred, personal beliefs should not be condemned. Why? Be­cause right and wrong are relative terms, they do not, and should not, mean the same thing to everyone. 
We also should be more careful about form­ing an opinion of someone just because they hold a certain belief. It is a sad thing to judge someone by a belief rather than as a human being. 
As one of my high school English teachers once said, the true test of tolerance is when you can look into someone's eyes and see not black, white, male, female, gay, straight, demo­crat or republican, but rather, a reflection of yourself. 
Michael Froning is a freshman Arts and Letters major at Notre Dame and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
P.O. Box Q 
law that is literally tearing ourdearland apart. home, anyone that has the courage to face the athletic contests. Appropriately enough, theViolence will not help No one can take a life that almighty God has possibility ofthe end ofhis life and do the job network is planning to boost its ratings with created. anyway, that person will receive my respect the biggest of Notre Dame shows, a Sacred 
Bernard Kiernan 
and admiration. For that person has shown Heart "smells and bells" liturgy. 
change abortion laws 
Fort Lee, NJ 

much that is admirable in the human charac­Father Dan Jenky has taken it upon himself Dear Editor: ter; sacrifice, courage, determination. to make sure the audience is a "representative 
I deplore, like all law-abiding citizens, the Admiring war heroes He deserves and will receive my admiration congregation." Not representative of the Sa­recent bombings ofabortion clinics and agree whether he be a soldier, or a cop, or a fireman, cred Heart community, mind you, but of the that the perpetrators should be punished to does not glorify war or the man who jumps into an icy Potomac entire Notre Dame community -including the fullest extent of the law. No one has the Dear Editor: · River after a plane crash. Admire them for students and administrators who usually stay right to destroy property and endanger the John Neblo was wrong in saying that war their individual integrity. away from Sacred Heart on Sundays. In fact, lives offellow Americans. veterans do not deserve our admiration. He It is the glorification of war, not heroism, some dorms have even cancelled their We all realize, however, that the vast has made the mistake ofequating the admira­which propagates war. liturgies to bolster the event. What's next? A 
majority ofpeople in this great land detest the tion for war veterans with the admiration and PeterS. Bowen 4:30 starting time and lights from MUSCO? 
vicious and despicable crime ofabortion. The glorification ofwar. Holy Cross Hall Atrue cross sectionofthe University would 
four thousand innocent, defenseless children War is a very terrible, destructive thing have to include even our fallen brothers and 
that are victimized everydaybringsorrowand which is to be avoided when possible. It is sisters who, in the spirit of Vatican II 
pain to all ofus who suffer through their agony something which should never be admired or Notre Dame name is no ecumenism, have been kicked off campus for 
day in and day out. Since 1973, when the Su­glorified. their crusading. It might even include some of 
preme Court legalized this dastardly act, fif­But those who are called to fight, called to us who don't long for the triumphant church
longer limited to sports ...,
teen million babies have shed their blood. Let risk everything that they have worked or ofthe 30s and 40s, asJenky seems to. us hope and pray that someday soon we can hoped for in their lives (as well as their life Editor's Note: Because ofa production er­I hope most students will treat this Palm awaken the hearts and minds ofall Americans itself), should be admired -not for killing ror Keith Picher's letter appeared incorrectly Sunday like any other and be sound asleep 
,
that killing the fruit of the womb is not the people, but for facing the horror ofwar and for in tbe Feb. 25 issue of Tbe Obseroer. It is when the bells ring at Sacred Heart. That is, if answer to this rather complex and detestable doing their duty. reprinted here in its proper form. Notre Dame really wants to "serve the Ameri­1 situation. Contact your church leaders, Risking one's life demands something of a can church," not spread propaganda 1 
politicians, PTA groups, Pro-life organizations person that none of us can imagine. Anyone Dear Editor: Keith Picher l etc., and let them know your feelings. This is that can risk his life for his buddies-on dieba:t:­What a reliefto know NBC's exploitation of 1984 Notre Dame graduate the right way, the American way, to change a tlefield and for the freedom ofthe people back the Notre Dame name is no longer limited to Chtc~go, II_!: 
Campus Comments: Did you give up anything for Lent? 
Photos by Paul Pahoresky 


1 
Yes, alcohol and swearing. Yes, all sweets. Yes, I gave up vowels. No. Yes, picking on my roommate Lisa. 
Mary Hellmann Jim Melluish Melinda Murphy Diane Scluoedterl
Bob Ricci Freshman Sophomore Sophomore Freshman Business English a: Government Program ofLiberal Studies Business 

Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Edttor·in·Chief. . ..... Bob Vonderhetde Business Manager. .... Dave Taiclet Managing Editor ....... Mark Worscheh Controller . .. .. Dave Stephenitch 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the News Editor . . ... Sarah Hamilton Advertising Manager . . Anne Culligan University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Editor . . . .. Dan McCullough Circulation Manager. .. Jetf O'Neill reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as Saint Mary·s Editor ..... Anne Monastyrski Systems Manager . . ... Mark B. Johnson accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion Sports Editor. . . . Michael Sullivan Production Manager. . ..... Chris Bowler of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column Viewpoint Editor .... Dave Grote Project Manager . ... Amy Stephan present the views ot their authors. Column space is available to all members of the Features Editor . . ...... Mary Healy community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. Photo Editor. . . . . . Pete Laches Founded November 3,1966 is encouraged. 

The Observer/Phil Deeter 

r 
r 
r r 
Recreation takes all forms under the domes 
Kathy Weber 
features staff writer 
From the roaring crowd at a big basketball game to the steady thumping of jogger's feet circling the track, Notre Dame's Athletic and Convocation Center has some­thing for everyone. 
Throughout the long, cold months ofJanuary and February, students frequently complain that, aside from the books, there is noth­ing to do. As victims ofSouth Bend blizzards, students find themselves confined to campus, enduring the endless routine ofclasses, studies and dining-hall meals. 
While the need for adequate social space on campus magnifies during winter, there are some alter­natives. One of the best places to meet people in non-academic atmo­spheres is the ACC. 
Opened in December 1968, this multi-purpose recreational facility offers daily activities for both stu­dents and faculty. 
The ACC is basically a double­dome structure. The north dome, the Field House, holds the ice rink, the track, three indoor tennis courts, a boxing room and three volleyball courts. 
The other dome, the Arena, is the site ofthe basketball courts, the wrestling room, eight handball courts and four squash courts. Throughout the complex are ath­letic and administrative offices, the Monogram Room, and various men's, women's and faculty locker rooms. 
Outside facilities include 24 tennis courts, a track, and numerous fields for football, soccer, baseball and other sports. 
The ACC is always a hubbub of activity. A typical day finds varsity sports teams juggling different practice schedules on the ice, ten­nis courts, track and weight rooms. 
For the non-varsity athlete, Non­
Varsity Athletics sponsors a wide 
variety oforganized recreational 
services at the ACC, including 
racket and handball tournaments, 
aerobics classes, and swimming 
tournaments. 
For those who want to join the fitness craze but prefer individual activities, the track and second floor concourse are usually available for jogging. With just five laps of the concourse or eight of the track you can say you jogged one mile. Ifnone of this is appealing, a visit to the ACC can still be an en­riching experience just by brows­ing through the display cases. Located on second floor along the concourse are a series of trophy cases and exhibits highlighting Notre Dame football, basketball and other sports. 
You can relive the 1977 National Championship, meet Moose Krause, learn about Notre Dame Heisman trophy winners, or the olympians in Notre Dame history. One display even pictures past celebrities who have been guests at the ACC includ­ing Ronald Reagan, Bob Hope, 
Jimmy Carter and Elton John. 
As a facility built for multiple uses, the ACC is an enormous com­plex offering things to do for all interests. On a snowy day, or an uneventful evening take some time and utilize the building-go jogging, bring a date ice skating, or just go exploring. 
The hours of the ACC are from 7 
a.m. to I a.m. on weekdays, 8 a.m. to II p.m. on Saturday, and I 0 a.m. to II p.m. on Sunday. providing ample time for these or any other activi­ties. 
The Obwrver/Phil Deeter 
Mike Harvey goes up for a rebound. One of the many trophy cases In the ACC. 

-

lnterha/1 hockey teams use the rink for practice. 
ACC Facilities 
Ice Rink 
The ice rink in the north dome of the Ace Is open for free skating from noon to 1 p.m. on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. It is also open on Friday and Saturday nights from 7 to 10 and Sunday from 1:30 to5:30 p.m. The cost for these sessions Is $1 and an additional $1 for skate rental. 
Ice Rink Pro Shop 
The shop sells Notre Dame sportswear, hockey and skating equipment. The shop is open Monday through Fri­day from noon to 9:30p.m. and Saturday and Sunday from 8a.m.to10p.m. 
Track 
The track is open daily for jogging but is unavailable 
during varsity  track  practices  from  3:30  to  6:30  p.m.  
weekdays.  
Aerobics  

Aerobics classes are offered to men and women Mon­day through Thursday. Monday and Wednesday classes are at 4 and 5:10 p.m. tuesday and Thursday classes are at 4 p.m. Fees are $4 per half semester or $6 per semester. 
Gyms The gyms are usually available for informal activities (basketball games) during hours the ACC is open and if no previous events are scheduled. 
Handball and squash courts 
The handball and squash courts are available during ACC operating hours. For reservations call 239-5267 one day prior to date desiren 

Friday, March 1, 1985-page 8-9 
Sinners: the problem and reason for the church 

by the priest from seeing God's there were no loud, clear voice to hope attached to cross or crib of truth. reject them as lies and errors. the living symbolism ofbread and
Rev. 
One ofthe proofs of the church's Authority is most obnoxious wine.Robert divinity, they say, is that it has when it claims it is always right. St. As part ofthe ordained human survived the mistakes ofits leaders. Paul must have been despised by element, I'm one ofthe "fat cats," aGriffin A mere secular institution would the Judaizers. Popes in history priest with a vested interest in the have been destroyed long ago by its could make your skin crawl with pecking order. Types like me have
Letters to a Lonely God 
human element. I subscribed to the their arrogance. Authority claiming spent 20 years since Vatican II I wonder where the Catholic derground church. Certain over· claims ofRome when it became power from God has a lot to answer having our status as magicians church went wrong? bearing people began claiming they clear to me that the only original for. demythologized. I'm never both· 
The Church has a long history of owned the bat, the ball, the bases game in town was the Catholic Why did it take so many cen­ered when scholars prove that any popes who have taught nonsense and the entire game. They would church. turies to rid the Christian countries number can play because every and superstitions as dogmas binding make all the rules, in the name of of the curse ofslavery? Why didn't Christian is empowered to proclaim the conscience. What was the Christ. With the help, they said, of Uke elephants lugging Hannibal's the German bishops do more to bread and wind efficacious as a original sin ofChristianity from the Holy Spirit, they defined the army on their backs over the Alps, protect the victims against Hitler? Eucharist or to declare the forgive· which all the other errors flow? articles of the creeds, the norms of the Catholic church has carried the Why do infallible vicars make so ness ofsins. When they ordain 
In the beginning, there was orthodoxy found in the scripture. truth and grace offered by our Lord many mistakes in the defense of women I'll be present with the Christ, His ministry and death, They also informed Christians through the Walpurgisnacht of human rights, and become involved sacramental laying on of hands. But followed by His resurrection which what the authentic traditions were. history. The Irishman who argued as part of the power structure in when critics throw brickbats, I His followers believed in as an Their worst sin was to mix religion religion with me as a teenager used base political systems? Why isn't the would like to see that they have Easter Faith. The Lord promised he with politics. Their second sin was to ask, "Where would the Protes­church, at least part ofthe time, as love on their minds. The basic would send the Holy Spirit to be a to aggrandize themselves with titles tant churches be ifthere had never wonderful asJesus Christ himself? metaphor ofthe church is that teacher. Apostles and disciples and holy prerogative. I learned all been a Catholic Church to protest It is probably because the human Christ is the Vine, and we are the preached a message ofGod so this church history in Protestant against?" He didn't know much element is at work, screwing up the branches, and love is the grace loving the world that He gave His Sunday school. then, and I don't know much know, plans ofGod.JesseJackson said, keeping us all alive. only-begotten Son, and they called The Sunday school teacher said though I recognize that he over­"I'm not perfect. God hasn't it the Good News ofsalvation. the loss oforiginal innocence in the simplified history. finished with me yet." He hasn't I'm the servant ofa wicked old 
Documents were written as church began at the time ofCon· It seems to me that every finished with the Catholic church hippopotamus that leaves ruin in its gospels and epistles; eventually stantine. Preachers, grown fat and denomination survives on the either. He hasn't finished with any wake. Inquisitions and crusades are they were put together to form the fiesty with privileges, aped the style church's mainline traditions · in· ofthe churches, and He will never grievous blots, and the popes New Testament. You can pick up ofthe emperor's court. As popes eluding the Catholic Bible, creeds, be finished until all ofus are one, needed their Luther. Still, it the sound ofgrumbling in the New and bishops, they borrowed man­teaching, and sacraments · as and we fulfill the living idea ofthe wouldn't be any fun to work for a Testament writing. Arguements ners, morality, and dogmas from the though the denominations Mystical Body. church I'm always mad at, and were going on. Perhaps the wrong pagans. depended on the wealth inherited But ifthe church is always wrong, constantly hate. people won the arguments. Many of The rottenness of Rome seemed from a matriarch. She may be we might as well give up our Bible It's the church that the Lord gave the early Christians died for the clear to me as a child. The footnotes Babylon's harlot, but she's also the and our celebration ofEaster. Ifthe us, the mother ofchurches that Savior whom they had never seen. in our family Bible identified the earth mother which has suckled sex therapists on television are honor Christ. The original error Were they victims of the errors of Catholic church as the bore of Christianity with her mother's milk. smarter than the Pope, we can give may have been God's error when false teachers? Were the leaders, Babylon. My grandfather made fun Imagine how much gloomier the up on the idea ofmarriage as a He staffed her with sinners. Sinners, who claimed authority, making ofthe pope with crude satire. I was Dark Ages would have been with· sacrament. We can throw out the on the other hand, are her reason mistakes even then? raised to feel sorry for Catholics. out the Catholic church. Imagine theology that says birth and death for existing. That is why it 
By the third and fourth century, You couldn't blame them too much how much more dangerous the are related to the will ofGod. We sometimes looks as though the Christianity was no longer an un-for their ignorance. They were kept world's philosophies would be if can strip our mythology ofany blind were leading the blind. 

,lllf/I!J.
r,

Movies ~~~di, 
•The 
drama and action will be intense this weekend as the Knights ofColumbus present "Apocalypse Now," a film depicting the horror, the madness and the moral dilemma that was Vietnam. Martin Sheen is Captain Willard, a Special Forces officer who is sent on a delicate secret mission to kill Colonel Kurtz, played by Marlon Brando. Kurtz is an American officer who has set himself up as a "god" among the natives, and is running the war his own way. Showings will be tonight and tomorrow night at 7, 9:45 and 12:15. Admission will be S1.50. 

•Tonight 
at 7:30 and 9:30 the Friday Night Film Series will present the 1978 film "Heart to Heart" in the Annenburg Auditorium for S2.50. This is the story of how three sisters in a French petit bour· geois family grew up, centering on the experiences ofthe serious, inquisitive and mercurial youngest sister. The film is a serious reflection ofthe decline ofthe family · and a heartening wonder at its survival. 



{r 


Ora Jones (right) as Electra 

Nazz 

•Tonight, Charles Boudreaux and People Who Can Play will perform Irish, fotk and other fun music from 8:30 to 
12. The act will feature John Kennedy and Bob Corrigan of Nazz Music Competition fame. Following this performance will be vocalist Mark Luchini on the guitar. 
•Tomorrow night the Nazz will feature John Tyler, guitarist and vocalist, who will perform a variety ofsongs including Nell Diamond, The Who, EltonJohn and some originals. Tyler will begin his perfor­mance at 9 p.m. 

Theater 

•This weekend will mark the opening of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's production of"Electra". The Sophocles myth recounts the chilling tragedy ofElectra (OraJones), a woman compelled to fill an evil destiny. The passage of time and pleas ofher sister, Chrysothemis (Susan Dun­lap) fail to dim her constant and faithful vigil for the return ofa brother, Orestes (Michael O'Keefe), to their native dity of Mycenae. 
Performances will be tonight and tomorrow night at 8 in Washington Hall. Tickets, priced at 53, may be reserved by calling 284-4626 weekdays or 239·5048 on performance nights. 
r-Art 

•The display ofetchings by Linda 
Plotkin continue this weekend at Hammes · Gallery ofSaint Mary's College from 7 
p.m. to 9 p.m. 

•This 
weekend will be your final chance to view the exhibit Autochromes: Color Photography Comes ofAge, a new traveling exhibit organized by the Library ofCongress. The exhibit presents some ofthe earliest color photographic images made. In a nostalgic, almost impressionistic fashion, they capture a world now lost. 

•Also 
this weekend, the exhibit Glenn Zweygardt: Steel and Stone Sculpture continues this weekend. Zweygardt teaches sculpture and is deparment chairman at New York State College of Ceramics at Alfred University. His monumental steel and stone sculpture has been featured in numerous one-man shows, as well as in private and public collections in the States. 


Hours at the Snite this weekend are today from 1 0 a.m. to 4 and tomorrow and Sunday from 1 p.m. to 4. 
Music 
•On Sunday the Notre Dame University Artists Series will present the Borealis Wind Quintet in recital. The New York Times comments on the group · "Each work received lively, expert and musicianly treatment by this skilled and exceptionally talented young chamber group." The recital will begin at 4 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium and admission is free. ­

Dance 
•Tonight 
at Chautauqua, the Modern Dance Troupe will present a variety of dance styles including tap, modern, ballet and jazz. The performance will com· mence at 7 p.m. 

•Tomorrow 
night Chautauqua will host the Annual Waltz Ball, sponsored by the Chapel Choir. The theme ofthis years ball will be "Putting on the Ritz" and semi· formal attire is requested for this special event. All are encouraged to come and enjoy the music provided by the Notre DameJazz Band from 9 to 2. Admission to the ball will be Sl.50. 


Mass 


The celebrants for Mass at Sacred Heart Church this weekend will be: Father Robert Griffin 5:15 p.m. 
(Saturday night vigil). Father George Wiskirchen at 9 a.m. FatherJames McDonald at 10:30 a.m. Father David Tyson at 12:15 p.m. 

-
-
-

The Observer Friday, March 1, 1985 -page 10 
The Obsert•er Notre Dame offic<:, located on thl· thirll lloor of Lal'ortune Stud<:nt Centa. alT<:pts classified advt·rti•ing from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m.. Monday through Friday. The Obsert•er Saint Mary's office. located on the third floor of Haggar College Center. an·epts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m.. Mon· dity though Friday Deadline for next-day classified• is 3 p.m. All classifil·ds must be pr<:paid. either in person or by mail. Charg<: Is I 0 cents pa five charac·
Classifieds 
ters t:r da ·. 

LOST: A ROUND, BROWN. LEATHER SARAH MANEAA­MOM & DAD TAICLET WELCOME TO i don'l beli8\le Lee owes yoo money 
BASKETBALL. I LOST IT AT THE ACC Fiorida is now in si{fll, SOPH PARENT'S WEEKEND!!! think yoo're lyin'
NOTICES 
LAST WEEK. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL TICKETS Barely two weeks before our flight. DAVE BECAUSE I FEEL LIKE AN IDIOT I think flying is really neat­MARIAANDPATIY-DANANDSTEVE, so i said to the wise man: "listen sage. FOR LOSING IT. MY NUMBER IS 1118. (Piease can I have the window seat?) LIKE THEIR ROOMMATES, DONT GET tarry us no longer" 
No more soow and no more ice, INTO DATE SWAPPING. HAVE A NICE
TYPING CAU.. CHRIS~ HELP!!! FOUND: money,_,ACC. Call239-7813 My parents have 08\ler seen an ND bas­Just my personal floatation device! WEEKEND. 

to identify anount and denominations. Sunny beaches, going out
ketball game, 
ATTENTION MEN or WOMEN who are

For margaritas, I don't doubt H~yBrrthdaytoyouH~yBrrthdayto
and I'm about to graduate' 
where the op­

LOST: Key chain with 3 keys, two dorm If yoo have any available GA's for a That these are thingsd whiCh we'll boast; yoo Happy Brrthday PATTI TAIPATHI Interested in a ,_ ~ keys and one small. silver trunk key. weekend game, But the thing that I like most Happy Brrthday to yoo! Have a greet one, portunity and financial benefits are un­hon! Love Nina limited. Call Mike or Denny
SMURF key chain says: "I'd rather be Is laking off at winter's end
EXPERT TYPING 'ZT7.a534 AFTER 5:30 calllorie at 2810 -Today! 
616-782-3207. 

................................................................ skiing." Hfound pleasecall4001 ,ASAP!!! (I'm a bit d a pup, so money is no object.) To spend a week with my bestfriandl 
LOVE, CATHERINE Beware! Jdln "the Rod" Otreri
WOAOPROCESSING AND TYPING Fi;;;;;g··~~···;;;;··:Sj;ri;;g···&~?
celebrates his 21st birthday today. He will272.a827 
be accepting birthday greetings Save 30.00 m all American Airlines (especially from a certain someone from fliglts. Call Dave at 1159.
EXPERT TYPING 8EAVICE. CAU.. 

FOR RENT Badin) in 247 Cav & at Senior Bar. Dm't
MRS. COKEfl, 233-7009. ad NEED 2 OR 4 GA'S FOR WASHING­
IF YOU'RE BLUE... The Notre Dwne let him puke 0<1 yoo! VOTE
TON GAME. PLEASE CALL HELEN 
Cllapel Choir proudly presents A DANCE
Typing.M'ad ~ng -also copying. 3505. ································································ 
BACK IN TIME Saturday, March 2, 9:00 HEY Puff! trust me Nooo problem BEAVER 3880. 255-36841288-{)955. 
Cal Andrea -9-11pm or ~er. 283-Nice semi-furnished house, 3/4 students, 
p.m.-1 :30 a.m. in Chatauq.JB featuring STRIKES SPares & SHMENGES' Hans
NeOO 2 W8Btl. GA's call Torn 1022 
the Notre Dllme Second Jazz Band-live (yoo loook Marvolous!!) BEAVER Nice 2 student semi-furnished house, 

Admission $1.50 Sern~ormal attire re­
I NEED 3 WASHINGTON GA's. x4197 
288-{)955/277-3604. q.Jested. I want to sleep with Bart Ailey. BEAVER 
ask for Mike. 
................................................................ 
HAPPY ANNNERSARY ANDY I love ...and then Colin Porter. FOR OC COMMISSIONER 
................................................................ WANTED FOUR GA TICKETS TO THIS 
yoo with all my heert.Love, Sdia 
SIUdertt AVIMable lor Bab)witting • LOVE SUND4Y'S BASKE"IBAU. GAME. 
LIAM-nice picture! But I'm not giving yoo
Kids and Dogll-Call be-7and 91WTl. PLEASE HELP A GUY THAT
SUBLET LARGE 2BA APT. N::., DISH­DEAR CATHY, GUESS WHArS UPI any stories to tell. Later Scoob! HAPPY 2IJTli BUTTI How do the Arthritic
lisa 28:}.3033. EVERYBODY LOVES......BIU.
WASHER, WALK-IN CLOSETS, WAS­IT'S BEEN ONE YEAR SINCE I FIRST twinges feel? DO<It worry ALGO-IOL wiN
WEILER. CAU.. HIM AT 2118-4637
HER AND DRYER. PETS OK, SAW YOUR BEAUllFUL FACEI Need a l~e size reproduction? OFB Inc. solve your problems. Oh, maybe not. You ANEASIDE DR. AND ANGELA, CALL HAPPY 111 ANNIVERSARYII LOVE FREE DELNEAY, LABOR a-tARGES know-..tlatALCOHOL makes yoo WANT' 
232-4355 YA,DAVE ONlY Call283-3372 for details. LOVE, YOUR BESTEST PAL All YOU PARTY ANIMALS!! THERE IS A PARTY IN ZAHM THIS SATURDAY MARQUETTE TICKETS!!! I NEED 4-ti AllANTA HEY REGGAE-ONE MORE WEEKEND AND ANY~ w-iO UKES TO HAVE MARQUETTE GA'S FOR MY FUTURE AIDER WANTED TO HELP RENT CAR LIKE LAST, AND WE'RE ALLIN TROU­
................................................................ 
GAMMA PHIS....GAMMA PHIS ZAH~IES. PANY HAS PlENTY Of' MONEY. CON­AT 1153AFTER MIDNITE. O'CLOCK SHARP FRIDAY NITE! WE 
FUN IS IMIITED TO PARTY WITH THE EMPLOYER THIS FORTUNE 500 COM­TO ATlANTA FOR BREAK. CALL REG BLE!! YOU'RE MUZZLE FITTING IS 6
WANTED Acquainted at Mic:h. City Formal at TACT GEORGE AT 283-2094. PLEASE LOVE YOU .... All Of' PETE'S PARTY
Purdue Spontaneous at Niles And now... The Next Frontier Trashed at the
VOTE HAPPY HOURI!! CELEBRATE ST. (ESP.J&A) Help!Help! Desparetiy need 1 student or PArS DAY EARLY MARCH 8 4:30 TO 
~Welcome to Notre Dllme, GF, ..ti,PS,KHII!IIII!II
IIEAVEfl GA Wastl.ticl<et. Call 3790 and ask for 8:00 AT SENIOR BAR! QUARTER RIDE TO NEWARK NEEDED. CAN Bob. 
BEERS '11L 6 $.50 DRAFTS 6 TO 8 IIEAVER LEAVE AHY T1ME AFTER THlJfiSDAY FOR N'O., CAU.. RACE THOMAN 272-DRUM\IEA NEEDED !"'-Wave Band Today has been declared BE NICE TO 
MOAHING, MARCH 14. WLL SHARE With PUNK Tendencies Call EPW 277­
0734 JOAN "S.S." HANSEN DAY! 
BEAVER USUAL CAU.. MIKE AT x1745. CSJ7 
································································ 
WANTED: TICKETS FOR WASH. WASHINGTON DC BUS SIGN-UPS JOAN HANSEN -The world famous sec­
Anchors awelgl,AMK!look
FOR OC C01MSS10NER GAME. BIG$$ CALL STEVE 3457 MONDAY MARCH 4TH 7-aPM ON THE tim2-5 lrJJes yool
out,L.ondonll'm proud d yoo!-Paula.
2ND FLOOR Of' LAFORTUNE. COST OC TOGETliEfl AS ONE Amerriler of ND-SMC oorrm.Jnity to drive NEED2WASH.GA. CALLJ.B 1646 $65AOUNDTAIP-MUSTPAYATSIGN­DEAR MARK, THANKS FOR A WON· 
,_car to Seattle and drive car back alter UPS CARTOl.JOiE I! I WANT YOUR DERFUL 18 MONTI-IS (SEEMSSpring break. CaH 232.()453 after Mar. 4, CARTRIDGE IN MY PEAR TREE !!
Needed 2 GA's for W8Btlingtm game. LONGER, HUH). HAPPY ANNIVER­
A.M. and evenings. Please call Kathy 284-4271 LOVE, Big Hole SARY, LOVE-KISSES & HUGS NANCI 
zodiac... zodiac... zodiac AIORS...WAAD'S WARRIORS WARD'S WELCOME BACK TO SMC! I MISSED 
WARD'S WAAAIORS.. .WARD'S WAA­MOIJFY 
LOST/FOUND I 

WAAAIOAS...WARD'S WAR­YOU. I'M GLAD YOU'RE HERE AND
Native !"'-Englanders seek freOOcm d 
AIOAS...WAAD'S WARRIORS WARD'S the vegetables in S. Italy are delicious­FEELING BETTER. I LOVE YOU ANDMidwestern mentality. NeOO ride home WARAIORS...WARD'S WAA­that Capri corn Is amaizing HOPE YOU ENJOY YOUR WEEKENDanytine. Call3884 to pr811ent extinctim d PERSONALS 
LOST: In the oorTidor under the S1ands at AIOAS...WAAD'S WARRIORS QUEFO P.S. I LOVE YOU TOO MOM
pieced mind.
the NX ice rink; a black 'CCM' hod<ey so... de ex is broken and we camot chop AND DAD P.P.S. THANX ST. JUDE helmet (21 0<1 bad<). PrOOably left there THEY'RE COMING!!!!! THEY'RE COM­thewood(y) after f1e PangJom-Aiumni game (19 ING!!!!!
YO· COCO AW:J PI.IPPYHEADSf I can't be there to see you get whooped
Feb). Has the IW'Tl8 "Jay SuHivan" mit. N.D. EDIQUATE... 1) YOU HAVE TO BE 
Sunday night but I'll be there in spirit (as 
I 
Call Tm at x23frl. Sumner Sales POSitions. Avfiraoe earn­ANTOSTAL OAUN< TO HAVE A GOOD TIME. 2) ED REILLY
wiN Melor/lew:J unless he extends class
ings $2900. Sell yellow page a:lvertising GENERAL MEETING YOU CANT TALK TO PEOPLE THAT GOCXllUCK AT THE BENGAL BOUTS! for Notre Dllme University Canpus Tale­For anyone interested in helping with the
that night, which i$n ybeyond his Bbilififls YOU MEET IN BARS OUT SIDE OF THE 
BE THINKING Of' YOU! YOUR LIT­phone Directory. Car I18C8688r)'. No sum­)IOU know). An)'Wlly, Good Luck! week's activities BAR. OK. I'VE HAD ENOUGH OF THIS, n.ESTFAN mer sdloof students. Qual~ied students Shroom Sunday, March 3 AW:J I'M NOT GOING TO TAKE IT 
library Auditorium, 7:15 ANYMORE. IF A FEW PEOPLE WOULD
Lost: Gold rt:be chain with solid gold r-.J(t should call University Directories, 1-S00-................................................................
BE COOL AW:J SAY HI TO THE
get medalion. PClllllibly lost in the ACC 334-4436, for more lnfotma!ion and to set NEED A DATE? I 001 MY NAME IS
PREGNANT? NEED HELP? CALL 234­
Thuraday roiglt in the indoor soccer tourn­up an interview by March 11. Ask for Bar­PEOPLE THAT THEY PASS IN THE MATT KAAEASS AND I'M DESPERATE!
0363. 24 hour hotilne!1ree pregnancy test
ament 1'1881 gym one or two upstairs. Sen­bera Nleukirk. THE SUN, THE SNOW, THE HALLS ,PEOPLE WOULD THIN< I'M REALLY A LOT OF FUN AND I EN­
available. WOMEN'S CARE CENTER NIGHlUFE, THE MOUNTAINS. SKI THEY'RE CRAZY. BUT IF EVERYONE
timental vakJeand reward is offered$$$$. ······•······················•· X)Y THE FINEST FOODS LIKE PIGS INt nfound please call Mike Viracofa at 283-AIDE NEEDED TO I.U.-BLOCWIINGTON THE BEST ntiS SPRING SAID HELLO TO EVEfiYONE THAT A BlANKET. PlEASE CALL GIRLS-IF I 
BREAK­4100 anytme. March 1OR, will rent car-so ~ yoo want to ASPEN, COLORADO. $397 INCLUDES THEY CAIE ACROSS, THIS PLACE DONT GET A DATE SOON I'll GET leave behind the South Bend Blues call 'llWIISPORTATION, 6 DAY UFT MIGHT ACT\JALLY BECOME A BET­THACM'N OUT Of' MY [)(JAM!
RIDE TO NEWARK NEEDED. CAN
GOLD ID Bnloelet at Bngdet's or Corby Mike 1581 or Ed 1160 WE NEED PASS, 7 NIGHTS LODGING RIGHT ON TEA PLACE TO LNE. THIN< AIIOUT WAAAAAH!CALLAT 1710
LEAVE AHY TIME AFTER THURSDAY 
IT-KUEJI JOE MOANING, MARCH 14. Will SHARE 
t Street CAU.. 51181181< for Cathyann RIDERS! 1MESLOPESICAU..MIKEAT283-3573 OA'o'IIAITEclo 
FOR INFORMATION OR TO SIGN-UP. 
MATT NEEDS ADATEUSUAL CAU.. MIKE AT x1745.

LOST: Grey leather jacket at Senior Bar RIDE NEEDED -PURDUE UNNER­204 ST. ED'S HALL 
Friday Niglt School ID, Keys, and SfTY L.eeve Friday afternoon Please call ROUND TRIP TICKETS FOR SALE-that flJY rJJer there is always asking q.Jes­
Drivers I..Jcen!le in the pocket REWARD. TornJC3002 a-tEAP!!! 
i t tions... he sure is a q.Jerious one.
phone:3567 $178 FROM a-tiCAGO TO MIAMI FOR PLEASEOONATETOc;.,sEY:S·N·EEDY
Volum.ra: Elementary & higl sdloof 
SPRING BREAK!!! CALL DICK OR RIDE NEEDED NORTHWEST SUB­a-tAIS AT 2289 OR 2266 NC1N 
a-tiCAGO FLORIDA FUND. CALL 4422.
teachers and student supervisors are In order to balance out our education neOOed to work in the Catholic Missionary we're reading Mill's essay "On libraty"URBS OR O'HARE LEAVING 3-1. WILL 
Diocese d Prince George, B.C., Canada.
SHARE EX. 284-4404
found; one pair d lOO'Tl8n's t;j.Btsses out 

We ask, Wpossible, a2-yearcoomitrnenl. whenever i get rwrbunctious i eat aries's ............................................................. 
front d Dillon in a soow bank. nyoo lost a Room, board, medical a:Nerage and peanut buner rup MARK
pair call Man 1181 and see ~ they're ILOVEYOU
stipend are provided. For more informa­SMC Students yoors. tion, please contact: Frontier Apostolate, Get involved! Hey JG... there was this pie--see... LISA ............................. ······•··· NeMI Two Rlderw to T~ort ~ P.O. Box 7000, Prince George, British Join the 
LOST AND FOUND: ONE Ut.'BRELLA -for Spring ar.J<I! One My Columbia, V2N3Z2PM KOLLMAN GENERATION ican'tsee... i'veagem in eye
AT Q-IATAQUA VIDEO DANCE SATUA· '-tlng Thui"Dy or Fridlly. c.ll Uu 
Applications for 1965-a6 ····························· FOR GOD'S SAKE, HOW SHALL ISAY... DAY NIGHT. If yoo misplaced yoor blue or Mel at 3716 or 3033 Commissioner positions available Old McDonald had a fann-ee i ee i oh... WOULD THE BOY FROM GRACE WHO umbrella and/or mistakenly took my blacl< now through Turs. MarCh 7 And on this fann he had a score--pee i ee KISSES WITH CONFIDENCE AND umbrella. please give me a calf. Keith Need ridels to BOSTON, 3-15 to Karen, Kathy, Dorene, and Kathy pick up at HCC. ioh. THINKS HE LOOKS LIKE TIMOTHY X1057. wh&n8\ler. Call Tom 1655 
................................ HUTTON-PLEASE MOUSSE YOUR 

....................... . ........ . 
Tequila The Dynasty of i'm selling these peanuts to raise money. HAIR. DONNA FROM THE BRONX 
FOUND: ladies' watCh. Call Staph 3468 Means d Production is looking for and ad· 
Kahlua would you like to buy a can sir?
ditional vocalist. Call Paul 1578 
Tequila FING'S KINGS 
·························································•···TO WHOMEVER TOOK MY WAU.ET Kahlua did yoo 8\lir go to the store fer gin? WELCOME TO TOWN. BAET AND 
. FROM THE ROCKNE LOCKERS-YOU 

THINK SO. PADRE! may end here. but DEANNA!
CAN KEEP AHY MONEY IT CONTAINS, 

THINK MEXICO! those bullies pelted us with rocks and READY FOR THE WEEKEND?
BUT PLEASE RETURN IT TO THE 

Lisa THE LEGEND LIVES ON' garbage... they tore us from limb to limb. 
LOST & FOUND OFFICE OR 520 Riders needed to go to Florida, Daytona. 
........................
FLANNER. I'D APPRECIATE IT VERY Ft. Lauderdale. in luxury motor horne $80 
lou, Debbie, lind Teny

MUCH. round trip. Call Jeff "Fioch" 3467, or 
Y.ou, too, are loved.

Buger4051. 
CALC 105 TUTOR NEEDED: WILL PAY SKI VAll COLO SPRING BREAK Condo$$ · STAAT IMMEDIATELY DUE TO sleeps41, Ful KitCh, FAPL, Jaccuzi, Pool,
My Black Beret' My Black Beret' VI/here TEST NEXT WEEK. CALL SHAWN AT 
l V M56 303-ti65-2700
will I find My Black Beret? To have it back 4107 Is all that I ask. You know that il was A ·············································· 
JUNIOR NIGHT AT TIVOLI'S FRIDAY
"Vrai Elasq.Je ·· Marci BeaucaJp! Call RIDERS NEEDED, due to recent cancel· 
MAAO-f 1'
Fred 1636 at 163 Dillon. lation on 2128. ride In luxury motor home to FLORIDA. DAYTONA, FT. 
JUNIOR a..ASS ICE SKATING NIGHT
lost: gold neddace with single pearl .. LAUDERDALE, $80 round trip, call jeff SATURDAY MARCH 2 AT THE ACC.
great sentimental value. fri. nite at k. of c. "FlOCH" 3467 10:15Til12:151date nita. please call smo4326 please 
································································ 
FREE SM. DRINK WHEN YOU ORDERA calculator found in Hayes+lealy. If yoo A SUB. CALL THE YELLOW SUB FORlost one call BRUSH to claim it at 1150. 
FREE DELNERY 272-4453 MO-TH 8­11pm FA-sA 8pm-1am 
FOR SALE 

For Sale:BUNDY AlTO SAX-ijOOd con­SKI GLOVES BUT I lX)NT KNOW SkJCokndo LOST: ONE PAIR Of' BLACK LEATHER dition & indestruclable-ind accessories­
best offer-call R<b-3305.
WHERE. CALL a-tRIS IF FOUND AT 1150. Spring Break 
SPRING CLEANING Students available 
NeOO skiers to share expenses for condo for H~ing! We will lake m any
REM~ WHEN.....yoo took that in Breckenridge. Physics book from 158A Stepan 88\leral Cynthia 264 -5334
TASK · LARGE or small! Call lisa Be­Moroays ago? Well there is a na'Tl8 in it. 
'-17 and 9Em at 283-3033. 
Ol8Ck the brown, Inside. lower, riglt ································································ JOHN TYLER playing at the NAZZ Satur­a:Ner. It says K811in Shea. 283-3828. I day, March 2 at 9pm.
AFFORDABLE HOJSE NEAR NOTRE DAME. TIP-TOP CONDITION. CALL NOW FOR BEST PRICE. PERFECT 
-
FOUND: A SILVEFI RING-LOOKS VEA· 
need ~ bad<. 

FOR STUDENTS/FAOJLTY. 234.Q465. ARRAY VALUABLE FOUND ON 3rd ST LOUIS<XJNNECTICUT-SO CALI­
Fl.Cla'l PANGBORN LAST WEEKEND FORNIA CLUBS: HAPPY HOJR AT 

CALL23290A 1264 AND DESCRIBE 

SENIOR BAA TODAY!! 4:30-7:300UAR· 74 MERCURY MONTEGO ·REBUILT TEA BEERS!! FRIENDS WELCOME! 
FOUND: ladle's Mtc:h during breakfast ENGINE,AM/FM,$650. 232-()697 NEED 21 ID AND $1 COVER a-lARGE 

(lhnday. 2128) at North Dining Hall. 
c.l 1101 (Gary, Jim, or Bubba) to iden­

75 Chelly Malilu Clallsic, excellent run­Bonjour, Kirk Bienvenu a I'Universite de tify. ning oond. $700, call 'ZTT-4745. Notre Dllmedu lac! 
Get personal. 
And help fight MS at the same time. 
··------------1 

For the next week, The Observer teams up with the "Millions against MS" Coupon campaign to raise funds to combat this 
Place a classifieddisabling neurological disease. 

order by Tuesday,Just use this coupon before March 5th March 5, and receive 

to save 50 cents on your next classified order...and better yet, we'll match your savings by sending 50 cents to the fight 50¢ off against MS. 
your order. And TheYou save money, and the MS Society Observer will matchbenefits as well. And Notre Dame and your savings andSaint Mary's come a step closer to send soc to the fightwinning an MTV-sponsored concert. 

against MS. Offer ex­Hurry! Offer ends Tuesday. 

pires at 3 p.m. March 


5, 1985. limit: one 
coupon per order. 
Minimum order: 
$1.50.
L-------------1 


Sports Briefs 
The Notre Datne men's swim teatnplaced fourth out of 14 teams in last night's Midwest Independent Invita­tional at Illinois-Chicago Circle. The order of finish for the top five teams was Illinois State ( 319), Western Illinois ( 213), Northern Michigan (181), Notre Dame ( 177), and Northeast Missouri State ( 121 ). -The Observer. 
The Notre Dame hockey banquet will be held on Tuesday in the Monogram Room at the ACC. Cocktails will be served at 6 p.m. and dinner is at 7 p.m. Tickets are S10 for Blue line Club members and Sll for the general public. Tickets are available at the hockey office in the ACC ( 239-5227).-The Observer 
Bengal Bouts tickets now are available at the Gate 10 ticket office at the ACC. Tickets are S3 for ringside and $2 for general admission to the quarter-and semifinal rounds and $5 and S4, respectively, for the finals. Three-day passes also are available at S5 for adults and S3 for students. -The Observer 
Stepan Center will be closed, starting tomorrow until Sunday, March 10, for the Bengal Bouts. -The Observer 
SMC athletic commissioner applications will be available until Thursday, March 7, at the Saint Mary's student ac­tivities office in the Haggar College Center. All student/athletes are eligible. For more information, contact the student activities office. ­
The Observer 
3700 NCAA tournament tickets for bleacher seats still remain for the first-and second-round games at the ACC on March 14 and 16. The S30 tickets, good for all games, are available at the ACC ticket office. -The Observer 
THE EARLY.&BIRD... .-~~  
ATTENTION SENIORS  
l:iMAT.7§';4' Call Days £venin1s & Weekends 1~-H 1717E.SouthBendAve. .,N. South Bend, Indiana 4663711lVI (219) 272-4135 Educational Center  

STUDENT APPRECIATION NIGHT FEB. 25 -MARCH 2 30% OFF • 30% OFF 
5 p.m. • 10 p.m. 
Franlt'alledHotiJ Chicago Doge Coney Doge 
Gyros DeU Saaclwk:hes Beer 

PRESENT YOUR NOor 
SMC 10 and receive 
30% off all Itemson 
the menu. 
c•n.·lee c..... 
Ho.eaade Ice c..... Banana Splits 
Ho•..ade Wafft.. 
eo...

....... 
16MbIDa 
62Fiavon 
WltiiiRIWIIIII.....a..... 
1/f. JIILE EAST OF N.D. ON ST. 110.13 . 
TRYUS! 


Friday, March 1, 1985 -page 11 
Bengal Bouts start on Sunday 
By JOE BRUNETTI 
::;port; W"ruer 
When the 55th Bengal Bouts com­
mence Sunday night, Ferdie "The 
Fight Doctor" Pacheco won't be at 
ringside and "Marvelous" Marvin 
Hagler won't be lacing up his gloves. 
Instead of the sight being Las Vegas, 
it will be Stepan Center, and instead 
of monsters like Hagler in the ring 
there will be many first-year boxers. 
But that is all irrelevant. 
The Bengal Bouts, since their in­ception by Dominic "Nappy" Napolitano 55 years ago, have never meant to be a glamorous event with top-ranked contenders. Although the Bengals were televised on NBC for a few years, that was not really their element. They have always been a charity event meant to serve the Bengal missions in Bangladesh, and the spirit and the enthusiasm that Napolitano started remains ever-present in the boxers. 
The action will be exciting as usual, but this year the skill level is much improved, and the fights should be better than ever. 
"This year there are a lot more finely-tuned boxers," says Dan Watzke, Boxing Club vice-president. "We're going to see better boxing skills, more combinations, and a lot better conditioning. We've been able to do more ring-work this year." 
The 140-pound weight class features Marshall "The Law" Rogers agaisnt Pete Tiernan. Rogers' best friend, Pat McCormick will meet jim Priola in the other bout. Kevin Dug­gan ahd Tom Berens both received first-round byes. 
The 145-pound weight class features Ed Kelly as the number-one seed, whom Watzke calls "the trea­sure of the club and the best-skilled boxer." Kelly receives a first-round bye. Mike Cotter will face last year's champ Tom Lezynski in one bout, while senior Tony "The Polack" Pezka will meet Tom Newell. The last bout pits Ed Bornemann against Bob Harig. 
Boxing club president Mike Latz is the favorite at I SO and will not fight in the quarterfinals Sunday. Jim Sil­ver will take on Mike Rogue in the first match, while Notre Dame wrestler Todd Lillie will face Steve Hillsman. 
Ed Reilly will square off against newcomer Tom Brennan at 155. The other bout will feature Tim McTigue against Jeff "Wipeout" An­hut, who is known for his dance at basketball games. Pat Gee and Ted Gradel both received byes. 
There will be no action in the 160­pound class in the quarterfinals be­cause there are only four fighters. Watzke will face Tom Cummings and joe Simmons will square off againstt Ed Gavagan in Wednesday's semi's. 
joe "Tank" McNamara will at­tempt to defeat Don Antrobus at 
165. The other two scheduled fights will feature Denny Coleman versus Chris Reed and Steve Freschi against Matt Langenderfer. Coleman was the runner-up in the novice champion­ships last fall,and if he survives until the finals he may have to face Tom Hardart, who defeated Coleman in that bout. 
Newcomer Grant "Gale Force" Gailus will take on Greg Rowe at 175, and Bengals-veteran Dave Packo will fight jay Lavelle. The other bouts feature Bill Rossiter against Kevin Hamer and Tim Lyons versusjim Ackerson. 
In the heavyweight class, jim "The Unknown" Vignone will have to beat Brian Keenan to advance to the semi's, and veteran Ken Munro will face Kevin "KO." O'Shea. Fred Ahlholm will meet sophomore john Uhll and Dave Sassano squares off 
against John  Rademacher  in  the  
other bouts.  
All  three  super-heavyweights  

received first-round byes, but when they do fight it should be a slugfest. Football player Dave Butler will face 253-pound teammate Tom Rehder Wednesday. The winner of the Butler-Rehder matchup will face Pernell "Big Train" Taylor for the championship. 
All in all, the action promises to be furious from the start. 
IC4A Indoor Championships 
:·, 
ND track team travels to Princeton 
By MIKE SYZMANSKI ners must get into the finals in order to qualify for the NCAA's.
Sports Writer 
Van Wie, who has recently 
The Notre Dame men's track team recovered from an illness, and will travel to Princeton with 14 ofits McNelis will both try to run from the members to participate in the IC4A front during the tactical trials. Indoor Championships Saturday. All four quarter-milers are rested The IC4A is the oldest conference in and are legitamate prospects for the the country, made up of 116 schools NCAA's, according to Piane. Mitch and will provide the Irish with their Van Eyken, who placedlast year, will best competition of the season. The run in the 400-meters, and Robert winners of events at this meet Nobles and Van Pearcy will both run usually qualify for the NCAA Cham­to the front in the 500-meters. Dan pionships. Shannon, having recovered from an 
John McNelis will run the BOO­earlier injury, will complete the mile meters and)effVan Wie will run the relay team. 1 000-yards, traditionally the two Phil Gilmore, who has run only toughest events at the IC4A's, accor­once this year in the 55-meter dash, ding to Irish Coach joe Piane, be­qualifying with a 6.2 in the first meet cause they run two heats and a final of the season, will be ready to com­with tough competition. Both run-pete Saturday. Last year, Gilmore 
Tough competiton Saturday 
was the last qualifier in both the tri­als and the final and went on to place third. 
In the field events, Llyod Con­stable, who has already qualified for the NCAA's, should place at the IC4A's. James Patterson will triple jump and long jump, where he is only five inches away from qualify­ing for NCAA's. Chris Matteo will represent the Irish in the pole vault. 
The all-freshman two-mile relay team of Paul Duvair, Nick Sparks, John Dadamio, and Rick Mulvey, who have run 7:44, can be counted on to give everything they have, ac­cording to Piane. With teams such as Villanova, Penn State, Georgetown, and George Mason competing, the Irish will need their best perfor­mances in order to place. 
ND wrestlers in Western Regionals 
ByJOE BRUNEm 
Sports Writer 
When Fran McCann's Irish wres­tlint> squad step onto the mat this weekend for the NCAA Western Regionals in Des Moines, Iowa, it will be attempting to send someone to the Nationals in Oklahoma City, something the wrestlers on McCann's squad have yet to experi­ence. However, for McCann's wrestlers that goal will not be one easily attained; they compete in one ofthe toughest regions in the nation. 
"This is the toughest competition I've eler seen in this region," says McCann. "It's definitely one of the toughest regions to qualify in. There are five or six real strong teams that are going to dominate." 
Notre Dame will have to contend with the likes of LSU, Indiana State, and Tennessee. 
The Irish will place much of their hope for a Nationals berth on the shoulders of junior john Krug, who has definitely been the most consis­tent performer on this year's squad. Unfortunately for the 167-pounder, he has to compete in the toughest weight class which includes three All-Americans and two other wrestlers who have experienced the Nationals. 
"Krug has a chance, but he is in the toughest weight class," notes McCann. "His attitude is real good, but its difficult. He'll have to upset one of the guys that have made it to Nationals before." 
For three ofMcCann's wrestlers, it could be the last meet of their col­legiate careers. Captain Phil Baty, Don Heintzelman, and Guy Lock­smith are all facing that reality. 
"They're seniors, but it's hard to tell because they have been so in­consistent in the past," says McCann of his three seniors' chance of making Nationals. "Mentally we have had a bad attitude and we have lacked confidence. I hope our atti­tude has improved and that they have a good frame of mind knowing that they really are good wrestlers." 
It was Baty and Heintzelman's per­formances last weekend against Mar­quette that has impressed McCann lately . 
"Baty and Heintzelman really proved something to me. They beat guys that they lost to earlier in the season," says McCann. "Before the meet against Marquette I tried to get them up by telling them that it was their last dual meet. We're ap­proaching this thing the same way." 
One of McCann's biggest prob­lems is not having a member of his team who has experieced the Na­tionals, and that is definitely a disad­
vantage. 
"They don't know how to approach it and what it takes," ex-. plains McCann. "(Assistant Coach John Azevedo) and I have told them what it's like, but it's not the same. You're fighting an uphill battle." 
Ifit is a battle they overcome, they will be heading for Oklahoma City in two weeks. 
Belles brtak three varsity records 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Saint Mary·h swim team tied for 14th place at the NAIA Nationals last night, and in the process the Belles broke three var­sity records in the four events in which they participated. 
Freshman jenny Pancratz was named all-America for her 12th­place finish of 5:29.78 in the 500-yd. freestyle, a time which broke the old record by five seconds, and Megan Rafferty set a new standard in the 50­yd. freestyle with a time of 26.22. The 800-yd. free-relay team of Raf­ferty, Pancratz, joyce Murtaugh, and Ellen Byrne gained all-America status for its ninth place finish, and shattered the varsity record by six seconds. 

The Observer Friday, March 1, 1985-page 12 

Notre Dame must move on after last night's Butler loss 
INDlANAPOLIS. Yes, the Notre Dame basketball team lost to Butler last night. And yes, on paper it seemed that the Irish should have beaten the Bul­ldogs. But it was not so much a case of Notre Dame losing this game as it was Butler winning it. 
Irish fans should understand what last night's game meant to Butler. Playing in the Midwestern City Conference, the Bulldogs obviously do not get a lot ofnational respect. Nor do they get a lot of televi· slon exposure. But they had the latter and the chance for the former last night. 
It isn't often that a team will cut down both nets following a regular season win, but that is what the Bulldogs did last night amid the pandamonium that broke loose after the one-point decision. 
The Irish must now put this game behind them · and they tried to do just that last night with what was probably one of the quickest exits in Hinkle Fieldhouse history. The Irish have only two days to prepare for Sunday's game with Washington, and that game has become much more inponant, now. It appears that Notre Dame will have to win two of its next three games to get into the NCAA tournament, which will be no easy task with the Huskies, Dayton and Marquette on the horizon. 
Sure, Notre Dame did some things wrong in the 
Iowa nips Ohio St. 
IOWA CITY, Iowa -Iowa center Greg Stokes hit 29 points to break a personal record and help the Haw­keyes break a four-game losing streak with an 87-82 victory over Ohio State last night in Big Ten Con­ference college basketball. 
Stokes became the Iowa's all-time leading scorer in the game, finishing with I,70 I career points. His num­ber also was retired before the game. 
The victory gave Iowa Coach George Raveling his 200th career win and raised the Hawkeyes' record to 20·8 overall and 9-6 in the Big Ten. 
Huskies 
continued trom page 16 
ppg., and Welp is counted on for 
13.4 points per game. 
The guards for the Huskies are a pair of 6-3 players, junior Shag Wil· Iiams and sophomore Clay Damon. The two have combined for an average of 14 points per game this 
season. 
Notre Dame's guards should be able to handle the Huskies' back­court, so the game probably will be decided by the play ofthe Irish front line. 
Notre Dame and Washington have played three common opponents this season. The Huskies lost to Brig· ham Young, 84-7';, and Duke, 71· ';9, and they split with PAC· I 0 op­ponent llCLA. Washington lost, 63­-; 1, at Pauley Pavilion in January but came hack to heat the Bruins, 67-61, at home in February. 
The Irish beat l!CLA, ';3-52, at Pauley Pavilion in early February and downed BYll, 67-';8, in the ACC last week. Notre Dame lost to the Duke Blue Devils, 81-69, in the Meadowlands Arena. 
The game will be important for Notre Dame, which Phelps has predicted will need 20 wins to make the NCAA tournament. 
Washington also will have some motivation in Sunday's contest, which is only two games away from retiring Head Coach Marv Harshman's final regular-season game. 
"It's Marv's last year," Phelps points out. "I'm sure that will start to be an emotional situation for the players as they get toward the end of the season." 
The opportunity to prove them­selves worthy of the NCAA tourna­ment creates an emotional situation for the Irish, too. So if the battle of the boards goes to the Huskies, Notre Dame might be motivated by that season-long goal. 

' 
Jeff Blumb 
Assistant Sports Editor 
game. The Irish had turnovers at some of the most 
inopportune times and failed to ever really grab a 
hold on the game. 
Another problem last night was a simple case of 
nervousness in front of hometown fans. For In· 
dianapolis native Scott Hicks, it was not so much ofa 
problem, but teammate Ken Barlow, also from In· 
diimapolis, struggled noticeably throughout the 
game. He seemed to play tight, Rather than as his 
usual relaxed self As a result of his nervousness 
some ofhis shots seemed to be forced. 
But it would be wrong to get down on Barlow. He 
is likely to come back Sunday with the type ofperfor· 
mance he has had for most of the season and which 
has made him one of this team's most consistent 
leaders. 
As for the team itself, expect it to come outSunday 
twice as fired up as usual. In turn, the students must 
do their pan to come out equally as strong. 
Box scores 
Last night's Reaults  Notre Dame women (99)  
Notre Dame women 99, Butler women  M FG·A  FT·A  R  
36  Ebben  22  4-4  2·2  2  
Butler women (36)  Schueth  21  5·11  2·3  10  

M FG·A 
Schiefel·  
bein  23  2·11  
Essington  25  1-10  
Morris  33  2·14  
Kilgore  35  2·11  
Walters  10  0-0  
Droast  27  1-6  
Harbin  4  0·1  
Hornsby  4  0-1  
Muenster·  
man  13  0·3  
Alexander  13  0-2  
Hawkins  13  1-2  

200 9-61 

FT·A R F p Both am 14 4-6 0·0 4 
Gavin 21 1-1 0·0 3 2·2 2 4 6 Keys 19 8·12 1·1 7 3-4 7 2 5 Brom­
5·6 4 3 9 meland 15 3·4 0·0 
6 2·2 4 2 6 Doug­0·0 0 2 0 herty 12 4·6 2·3 1 2·2 0 1 4 Barron 13 2·3 0·0 2 0·0 0 0 0 Ka1ser 22 4·8 1·2 6 
0-0 0 0 0 Basford 20 4-5 2·3 5 Morrison 21 5·9 1·2 5 2-4 4 2 200 44-69 11-16 51 
0·0 0 1 0 FG Pet. • .638. FT Pet. • .688. Team 2-5 2 0 4 rebounds· 4. Turnovers· 26. Ass1sts · 26 18·25 23 16 36 (Ka1ser 7). Technicals. none. 
FG Pet. ..148. FT Pet. · .720. Team Halftime · Notre Dame 48, Butler 18. rebounds · 7. Turnovers · 20. Assists · 5 Officials-Jerry Horg, Dave Netz. A. 259. (Alexander Kilgore 2\ TPrhnir.als ·none. 
Butler(70) last Night's Reaulta p
M FG·A FT·A R F Butler 70, Notre Dame 69, OT Tucker 42 7·18 1·2 5 5 15 Notre Dame (69) 
Gallaher 41 5·8 4-5 5 3 14 M FG·A FT·A R F p 
Haseley 38 2·3 3-4 3 4 7 Barlow 39 7·16 3-4 6 3 17 Fitzgerald 44 5·14 2·2 3 2 12 Royal 44 5-6 5·6 7 3 15 
Burt 40 !i·8 8·8 4 4 20 Kempton 34 2·6 1·2 4 3 5 Beam 1 0·0 0·0 0 0 0 Rivers 42 6-11 9-10 1 3 21 
Gilbreth 6 0·0 0·0 0 0 0 Hicks 41 2-7 4-4 8 5 8 Mackey 3 0·1 0·0 0 0 0 Spencer 1 0·0 0·0 0 0 0 Harper 10 1-1 0·0 0 2 2 
Duff 5 0-0 0·0 0 0 0 225 26-53 18-21 20 20 70 Price 8 0-2 1·2 1 0 1 
FG Pet. · .491. FT Pet. · .857. Team Dolan 11 1-1 0·0 0 2 2 
rebounds· 4. Turnovers· 13. Assists· 14 225 23-49 23-28 27 19 69 
(Fitzgerald 6). Technicals ·none. FG Pet. · .469. FT Pet.· .821. Team Halftime · Notre Dame 35, Butler 27. rebounds· 1. Turnovers· 13. Ass1sts · 8 Regulation • Notre Dame 58, Butler 58. (Rivers 5). Technicals ·none. Officials-Bill Wullner, Thomas Clark. A· 
Starts March 1st at a Theatre Near You. 
F p 3 10 1 12 8 2 1 17 
4 6 
0 10 1 4 1 9 2 10 3 11 18 99 


The Observer 

The Observ<r/Chaitanya P:lnchal 

Freshman point guard Mary Gavin bas been a key factor in the recent success ofthe Notre Dame women's basketball team. Gavin, who is just three assists away from a single-season team record of 103, bas helped the Irish up their season record to 17-8 with her floor leadership. Larry Burke basafeature on the Irish staratright. 

j1Jilic4tllt ftltannr iStautu ~alnn NnrtlT 
1504 N.Chestnut Mishawaka,IN (219) 255-3700 

Complete Hair Styling for Men and Women 
Organizational meeting for all those interested in entering the ND/SMC Multiple Sclerosis Fund Drive 
Rock-A-Like Contest 
Tuesday, March 5 7:00-8:00pm New Orleans Room, LaFortune 
•Win yourself a spot at the MTV concert, 
and a paid MTV internship Any questions ca11239-7668 

---~~ ~-----­

Friday, March 1, 1985-page 13 
I Freshman point guard 
Gavin adds spark to women's team 
By LARRY BURKE 
Sports Writer 
Success has been no stranger to the Notre Dame women's basketball team lately. The Irish have won 12 of their last 14 games, and over that span they have established them­selves as the team to beat in the North Star Conference. While the credit for the team's recent success has gone mostly to the big scorers like Trena Keys, Mary Beth Schueth, and Sandy Botham, a major reason for the team's current surge has been the play of its smallest mem­ber, 5-6 freshman point guard Mary Gavin. 
A look at the assist column of an Irish stat sheet, where Gavin's total of I00 is just three assists away from a single-season team record, doesn't tell the whole story of Gavin's con­tribution to this team. Her confi­dence and sure-handedness on the court have helped the Irish cut down on backcourt turnovers, beat opposing presses, and cash in on plenty ofscoring opportunities. It is no coincidence that over the past two months, as Gavin has started to come into her own, the Irish have raised their record from 5-6 to I 7-8. 
The preseason, however, didn't hold any indications of success for Gavin. Great things were expected all along from the North Wildwood, N.J., native, but a severe knee injury suffered in a junior Olympic game in April kept her from playing basket­ball for six months. When the Irish closed out their preseaon in late No­vember, Gavin, one of USA Today's top 25 prep players as a high school senior, was on the sidelines in streetclothes still recovering from artbroscopic surgery performed the month before. 
"What really set Mary back was missing the whole preseason after ing. But here you've got a lot of the surgery," explains Irish Coach talented players, like Trena and Mary DiStanislao. "She only started Sandy, and you know that when you practicing with us the week of our give the ball to them, they're prob­opening game against Tennessee, ably going to put it in." and the I6 minutes that she played DiStanislao is the first to admit in that game were a lot more than I that Gavin's passing skills have in­expected her to play. So Mary really creased the offensive production of used our first I2 games as her her teammates. But it was some preseason -the other players had a timely scoring by Gavin herself that month before the season to get into boosted the Irish to a 64-63 victory playing shape -a month that Mary over Loyola Tuesday night. Gavin didn't have." scored two important baskets late in 
While Gavin spent the early part the game, both on driving jumpers, of the season trying to get into the second of which put Notre shape, she also had to get used to a Dame ahead to stay, 63-61. And if bulky knee brace that reduced her that wasn't enough, Gavin sealed the speed and mobility. She didn't get victory by coming up with a timely her first startin~ assignment until the steal that killed a Rambler rally. eighth game ul the season against "One of the good things about Michigan State, when she responded Mary is that she is the type ofplayer with seven points and six assists in that can neutralize a player like 31 minutes of a 71-59 Irish victory. (Loyola's) Faith Mimnaugh, who up 
"The early part of the season was until this point has been the premier frustrating," says Gavin, "because I point guard in the conference. wanted to be able to play and help Mary's a leader · she wants to win. the team. But it was just a matter of She's the kind of kid that, when the getting used to the brace, which was chips are down, I'll bet on her to really difficult at first -it slows me come through. She very seldom down. I really have to work on my makes the same mistake twice. I've quickness because I'm definitely a always had a lot ofconfidence in her, step, maybe even two, behind what I and she hasn't given me much rea­was before." son to feel otherwise. 
The knee brace was not the only "Mary makes things happen on big adjustment that Gavin had to the court. She's a point guard in the make when she began to play regu-way that I think a point guard should larly. After averaging 22 points per be. She's a good ballhandler who game in high school, Gavin had to makes very few dribbling mistakes. get used to the role of a passer, the It means a lot to this team to have a type of player who seldom sees her player who can handle the ball so name in the headlines as leading well. She's also a very good passer, scorer. But it was an adjustment that and as she gets more confidence didn't really bother her. playing with her teammates, she's 
"The sort of game that I like to going to become an even better pas­play is the way I'm playing right ser because they'll become better now," she says. "I like to pass the catchers." ball, and that's my role here. In high With Gavin running the offense, school there was no one else who the Irish could soon find themselves could really shoot the ball all the catching a post-season tournament time, so I had to do a lot ofthe shoot-berth. 
~---------------------------------------------------------­
of bounds, and the two seconds quickly evaporated as the Bulldogs fans streamed onto the court and cut
Upset 
conunut'(/;rom pagt' 16 
down the nets. iuw ._.tmt oacK with another layup But it was not just the bounces with two seconds remaining to and bad breaks that did the Irish in make it 70-69. But when the Bul­last night. Throughout the second ldogs threw the inbounds pass long half and the overtime, the Bulldogs down court after an Irish timeout played as confidently. against the and Donald Royal touched it, the Irish as they had played scared ball bounced twice before going out against them in the first half. 
r----------------~
1 Natre Dame 
• Avenue! Apartments 
I  Apartments Available for  
I  Summer Months  
I1  Call office 3-6 p.m. daily 
I  234-6647  

I 
iI 
I 
I I
1 
1 

~----------------· 
Scholastic Magazine is now accepting applicationsfor thefollowing positions: 
• 
News Editor 

• 
Sports Editor 

• 
Features Editor 


• 
Fiction Editor 

• 
Advertising Editor 

• 
Distribution Manager 


Applications due Friday, March 1 and are available at the Scholastic Office, 3rd Floor LaFortune 
"For the first 2I minutes, we were in awe of Notre Dame," said Butler coach Joe Sexson. "We were ner­vous, and we showed it. We played scared in the first half." 
But when the buzzer sounded before the second half, the Bulldogs came out as a differnt team. Butler quickly rallied from a 35-27 deficit to take a 38-3 7 lead on a I3-foot jumper by Gallahar with I4:48 to play. 
The Bulldogs came out in a zone, which hurt the Irish offensively. 
"My assistants talked me into a zone, allthough we often play a little lethargic when we are in the zone," said Sexson. "But I was pleased tonight. We were very aggressive." 
Throughout the first five minutes, the only offense the Irish could generate was a five-foot jumper by Hicks. Turnovers and poor shot se­lections killed the Irish during this period, allowing the Bulldogs into the game, and bringing the Fieldhouse crowd to a roar. 
"We had poor shot selection all game," said Phelps. "And we com­mitted too many turnovers when we had the lead. That's been a problem for us in a lot ofgames." 
Irish forward Royal, who had scored 13 points in the first half on five-of-five 5-5 shooting from the field and three-of-four from the line, quickly became invisible in the second half. With him went the Irish inside game, and many of Notre Dame's points had to come from the inside in the second half. 
Rivers did all he could in this respect, leading the Irish with 2I points, but the Irish could only shoot 35 percent as a team in the second half. 
Butler, on the other hand, sud­denly got hot from the outside, as Fitzgerald boinbed away to keep the Bulldogs even. 
And once the Bulldogs did pull even, there was no shaking them off. The crowd filled the ancient, brick Fieldhouse with noise, and the Irish seemed to become more and more tentative as the time ticked off the clock. 
~-----------------------------r---~---------------------------­
The Observer Friday, March 1, 1985 -page 14 
Irish fencers will face Wayne St~te challenge in Great Lakes Tourney 
By MICHAEL J, CHMIEL· 
Sports Writer 
Tomorrow, Notre Dame will host 
the Great Lakes Championships in 
fencing as the Irish will try to 
overcome a Wayne State challenge 
for the third time this year enroute 
to a shot at the national title. 
The tournament, which will in­volve over I00 fencers from twelve different schools, will decide which team Is the best in the Midwest outside ofthe Big Ten. At stake, also, are three individual berths in the NCAA tournament to be hosted by Notre Dame over sprin~ break. 
Competing tomorrow at the ACC fieldhouse will be Chicago, Cleveland State, Detroit, Oberlin, Lawrence, Case Western Reserve, OkJahoma City, Tri-State, Miami (Ohio), Michigan-Dearborn, defending national champion Wayne State, and defending Great Lakes Champion Notre Dame. 
"I'm hoping that our men, who 
have done it twice this year, will do 
it again," says Irish Head Coach Mike 
DeCicco. "The team to beat at the 
Great Lakes is Wayne State." 
On February I, the Irish beat the Tartans In Wayne, Mich., by a score of I 5-12. Last weekend, the Tartans challenged the Irish at the ACC and fell short again with Notre Dame prevailing 16-11. Tomorrow's tournament, round-robin in nature, wlll basically boil down to a Notre Dame-Wayne State showdown for the third time this season. 
After last weekend's loss to the 
Irish, Wayne State Head Coach Gil 
Pezza gave this weekend's edge to 
the Irish. 
"The Great Lakes will reflect the team that has the more strength and depth," said Pezza. " Last year, the Notre Dame men's team took the Great Lakes, and I, quite objectively, think that they have an excellent chance to confirm the Great Lakes Championship because of their depth." 
Beginning at 9 a.m., each team will be entering a maximum number of three fencers in each weapon in a day-long competition. In the end, a champion in each weapon will emerge and be dealt an automatic bid in the NCAA tourney. The next eleven fencers in each weapon will move onto Northwestern on Sun· day. There, they will be competing with five Big Ten fencers in each weapon for six spots in the NCAA tourney in the epee, five in the foil, and four in the sabre. 
In the foil, the Irish will enter a strong lineup that out-did the Tar­tans last week by a 6-3 margin losing all three to junior Stephan Chauvel. The junior went 3-0 last weekend after going 1-2 against the Irish ear­lier In the year. 
Leading the way for the Irish will be junior captain Mike VanderVel­den. The junior foillst at 35·7 in 1985 Is 101-35 lifetime. Second for the Irish will be sophomore Charles Higgs-Coulthard. At 33-2 this year, Hlgg-Coulthard is the defending na­tional champion In the foil. Adding strength from the third spot is the oncoming Craig Funai. After a one year layoff, the junior has sparked the Irish foilists with a strong 21-1 1 record. 
"I'm looking for the Great Lakes foil championship to be decided among Mike VanderVelden, Charles Higgs-Coulthard, and Stephan Chauvel," says DeCicco. "Those are the three class kids of the bunch." 
Other fencers who are expected to be tough and provide an ample challenge will be Wayne State's Peter Dinsdale and Oldahoma City's Sean Cockerham. Both are consid­ered as "very, very strong fencers" by DeCicco. 
In the epee, senior Ettore Bianchi ofWayne State might be expected to be the favorite. Bianchi finished the 1985 season wothout losing a bout and is the defending national cham­pion In the weapon. 

Looking to dethrone the native Italian will be Notre Dame senior captain Andy Quaronl. Quaroni at 35-6 on the year, finished his career at Notre Dame with an impressive 133-23 mark. Coming from the number-two spot for the Irish will be junior Christian Scherpe. Scherpe a transfer from Cal-State Northridge went 34-8 for the Irish this year. Rounding out the lineup is Nlke Gos­tigian. The junior, after a year's ab­sence, went 16-6 for the Irish in the season. 
"In the epee, it'll be our three guys, Ettore Bianchi, and Michael Giuletti (of Wyane State)," says DeCicco. "Ettore Bianchi is prob­ably a step ahead based on his being a returning national champion, un­defeated against us in two dual meets, a strong competitor, and the fact that he wants to go out as a na­tional champion." 
In the wireless sabre division, the Irish come at the competition with the best in the business. Leading the way is Notre Dame's third most win­ningest fencer · Mike Janis. The junior at 42-3 this season went 157­27 in four years for the Irish. Juniors DonJohnson and john Edwards bol· ster the attack from the other two spots. This season,Johnson went 28­7 while Edwards chalked up a 25-5 record. 
"In the sabre, it's going to be Giovanni Girotto, our three guys, and Tom Lansford from Tri-State," says DeCicco. 
Girotto for Wayne State, went un· defeated against the Irish for the year. 
While the individual is keyed upon in this event, the overall team effort is equally important as the 23· 0 Irish try to continue their domina­tion ofthe 1984 national champions. DeCicco believes that the Irish are very capable. 
"The key to winning the Great Lakes and beating Wyane State is to do exactly what we did last weekend · have all nine men make their own particular contribution," says DeCicco. "If everyone fences up to their potential, our overall balance might overtake Wayne State." 
The Notre Dame women's team will also partake in this tournament after going 12-7 on the season. 
The Irish will compete against Cleveland State, Detroit, Lawrence, Case Western Reserve, Tri-State, and Wayne State. 
As in the men's action, the wo­men's tourney will be dominated by the Irish and the Tartans. Wayne State leads the overall series by a 14­1 margin. This year, the Tartans have beaten the Irish by scores of 13· 3 and 11-S. 
"As far as I see it, it's a dog race between Notre Dame and Wayne State," says DeCicco. Last year, the Tartans won the season ending event and went on to finish eleventh in the NCAA tournament. 
Once again the performances on the part ofthe individual fencers will be the key to the event. The cham­pion will be given a berth in the NCAAs. The rest of the women, along with others from across the Midwest, will move onto Northwes­tern where they will compete both as a team and individually for three four-member team spots and five in­dividual spots at the national cham­pionship event. 
"There are three people that are going to be competing for the Great Lakes Championship: Molly Sullivan, ((athy Watson, and Laura Galassi," says DeCicco. "I'm hoping that Molly has a hot hand as she did last weekend so that she doesn't have to fence the next day in the individual round." 
Throughout the season, Sullivan has proved to be the backbone ofthe Notre Dame squad. In her freshman year, Sullivan has compiled a 43-4 record and is 7-1 against the Tartans. 
Going from the number two and three spots on both days will be sop­homores Vittoria Quaroni and Cindy Weeks. Quaroni went 34-21 on the season while Weeks compiled a 34­24 mark. 
The fourth spot for the Irish is yet to be decided. In the running for the position is junior captain Janet Sul­livan ·and sophomore Christina Sar­degna. Sullivan, who has started the entire season, posted a disappoint· ing 29-30 record for the year while Sardegna came on in the end to go 13·7. 
"janet Sullivan is not fencing very tough, and it would really shatter me to see the girls miss qualifying be­cause we lost by a touch," says DeCicco. 

ULTRA SAVER FARES 
*Let us show you how inexpensive it is to fly for Spring Break. 
*Fly home for the Weekend. Call and find out the ridiculously low rates!! 
Seven Seas Travel 
525 N. Michigan 232-7995 

Help Prevent Birth Defects<4>Support the ~~~DEC~U2~t!l~  
'  An Tostal General Meeting For anyone interested in helping with the week's activities For example: -twister -jail -jello toss -maHress race -~·gg toss -keg toss -car stuffing -pie eating -mud pillow fights -chariot races -mud volleyball -bookstore basketball -and many more Sunday, March 3 7:15pm Library Auditorium Bring a friend!  



-----~------------------------------­
DARBY'S 

for late night munchies ... ­
In the basement of LaFortune 

Today_____.. 
Doonesbury GarryTrudeau 
Mf?S_fXXN38UfO'.IIK:ff  '/()() AIJV lHE l!ANI<&I?S  
'1W ~ANV 7HAT tub AliEJ.l£:/lC 7D EASe THE PLIGHTOFFIIMil.Y FA/?ME/<5, AIJTStNALJ.BJ IIE£I::EN() FA/?MIRS U/t:E YfJIJRStlF.  81/T lHAT'S NtK l'llt<..! I tuOt/l.PN'T8t IN 7H!SM35 IF JHE 60V£;RNMENT HAAV7 IJR6flJAU OF U5 70 PlANT ffliCE 70 "-.. ftNCEI  PfJTf:N(RM(Jb PR&5SIJ/?£ a/US 70 TAKE aJT11J4NS! MY~HXNI?f3PME t:MYIWV N/6HT1HEGAV/3ME MJ {j{(}{(E EXPANVPRO£VCTA'J'I1t_  

Zeto 


Bl0001.County 
YOU... YOU M€M/1D SllY 1M'Ir 1H!i IIPV8?175tl?S IN 7111~ COIIN1T(Y Lie, F/8, 
PfSTOf{r MMIIPIILArri, P!C£/V€, BR/8€ I!Nfl NAIN­
WllSH CCN51At1ERS "KE 
ME WTV 81/Yirl& 1HIN&5 
~fl.~ 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 33 Golf gadget 59 Not any 9 Cognizant 1 Narrow ledge 34 Ashen 60 Leases 10 Robins 5 Church leader 35 What line· 61 Jap.case 11 Indian 9 Circle backers do 62 Beer barrels 12 Dispatch segments 39 Repeat 63 Hasdebts 14 Dressed skins 
13-code 40 Fish eggs 64 Caustic 17 -dragon 14 Veil fabric 41 Hindu stringed substances (large lizard) 15 "If I-king" instrument 20 Away from home 16 Winterberry 42 Summerin 22 Leak slowly 
18 Yemen port Caen 23 Concur 19 Arm of the 43 Success DOWN 24 Build 
Pacific 44 Superlative 1 Infant 25 Distraction 2 First name in
20 Circled ending 27 Tiny 46 Piggery mysteries 29 Sheepcry 21 Arabian 47 Kind of dance 3 Factual 30 Fruit 
chieftain 49 Dress fussily 4 Twinned 32 Tokyo formerly 22 Plaintiff crystal 33 Article 23 Atmo's cousin 51 Farm buildings 5 Throbbed 34 Gr. letter 
26 Peculiar 53 Appalachian 6 Senior 36 Smile 27 Damp range 7 Appeal 37 Smallchild 28 Recede 57 Gotdown 8 Always to 38 Daisylike 
31 Cupidity 58 Family misfit poets flowers 

Berke Breathed 
Gary larson 
Of'(JS.. €V£RYT/I!~ SA!fl/N 7V CIAI1­M€/?CIIILfJ IS ALMO[;T ALWAYS 

JIJST A 81/NCH Of W-W-ki/tTCHfct<fNf(X]P-' II M!Nr!Te.. 
UI€U, 
WIS... IN 50 lr111NY 
WORP-­
\ 


43 Towel word 44 Spews from a 
volcano 45 Hunts 48 Feedsthe 
kitty 49 Carpenter's tool 
Yesterday's Solution 

©1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 

HE Offff?E()ME 
Fl.lfTWARE I 64 
NO 0101(£, Pltt£5! a/HAT14/AS MRS f}{X}N/3-I Sl/PPOSW TO IJO, 8llRY? THI?OW !TIN HIS 
/ FACE-7 ' 
KevinWalsh 
50 Nothing: Lat. 51 River's edge 52 Drug plant 53 Expelled air 54 Gainsay 55 Actor Richard 56 Grandiose work 58 Bus. abbr. 
Friday, March 1, 1985 -page 15 
Campus 
•4 
p.m. -Chemical Engineering Graduate Semi· oar, "Experimentally Observed Chaos During the Oxidation of Carbon Monoxide on Platinum," Luis 

F. 
Rozon, Notre Dame, and "Non-linear Optimizing Control for Chemical Processes," William ). Schmidt, 356 Fitzpatrick, refreshments served. 

•7 
and 9:45p.m. and I2:I5-Fllm, "Apocolypse Now," Engineering Auditorium, 5I.50. Sponsored by Knights ofColumbus. 

•7:30 
p.m.-Fllm, "Heart to Heart," Annenburg Auditorium. 

•8 
p.m.-Theatre, Sophocles' Electra, Washington Hall, 52.50. Sponsored by Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre. 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, Joanna M. Glass, novelist and playwright, library Auditorium. Sponsored by Sophomore literary Festival. 

Saturday, March 2 

•8 
a.m. · 3 p.m. -Law School Admission Test, Engineering Auditorium. 

•8 
a.m. -5 p.m. -Special Olympics, Basketball Arena and Gyms. 

•8:30 
a.m. -Fencing, Great Lakes Championships, ACC. 

•9·11
:30 a.m. -Tie-Dye Rec, Logan Center, new volunteers welcome. Sponsored by ND/SMC Council for the Retarded. 

•
7 and 9:45 p.m. and I2: 1 5 -Fllm, "Apocolypse Now," Engineering Auditorium, $1.50. Sponsored by Knights ofColumbus. •7:30p.m.-BlackCulturalArtsFashionShow, Monogram Room, ACC. 

•8:00-Theatre, 
Sophocles' Electra, Washington Hall, 52.50. Sponsored by Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre. 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, Mary Gordon, novelist, library 

•II 
a.m. -Spanish Mass, Farley Hall Chapel, all welcome. 

•12 
p.m. -Basketball, Notre Dame Men vs. Wash­ington, ACC Arena 

•4 
p.m. -Mass and Dinner, Pasquerilla East, sponsored by Notre Dame French Club, $3 for din· ner. 

•4 
p.m. -Concert, BorealisWoodwind Quartet, An· nenburg Auditorium. 

•6:30 
p.m. -Meeting, CILA, Center for Social Concerns. 

•7:15 
p.m.-Meeting, An Tostal planning, library Auditorium, all welcome. 

•7:30
p.m. -BoJdng, Bengal Bouts-Quarter Finals, ACC. 


Auditorium.  Sponsored by Sophomore literary  
Festival.  
Sunday, March 3  



Friday, March I, 1985 -page 16
S~orts 
Irish falter in second half, lose in OT to Bulldogs 

By ERIC SCHEUERMANN long bombs all night. He converted with the Bulldogs getting all but two 
Sports Writer both to tie the score at '56. of their 10 points from the foul line. 
Rivers made two clutch foul shots After Rivers tied the game at 6'5 with 
INDIANAPOLIS -The upset came with 27 seconds to play after being two fowl shots, Burt converted two 
by .the slimmest of margins -one fouled on a drive. But another Hicks from the charity stripe with I :'50 left 
point in overtime, by a score of 70-foul sent guard Mike Burt, a 96-to give Butler the lead for good. 
69. And the one point that may have percent free-throw shooter, to the When Hicks was called for his fifth been most typical of Butler's victory line. Burt, who led the Bulldogs with foul, a call where one referee had over Notre Dame last night was Bul­20 points, canned both to tie the signaled jump ball beforehand, But­ldog guard Tony Gallaher's free­game at 58 with 23 seconds left. ler center Tim Hasely gavt· the Bul­throw with 3:06 to play in regulation Rivers could not get the ball to drop ldogs the three-point lead with one to tie the game at '54. on a last-second bank shot, and the free throw. 
Hinkle Fieldhouse crowd of 13,222 Ken Barlow, whose shooting was 
The ball bounced six times on the went crazy as the game entered of most of the night in front of his rim before settling quietly into the overtime. hometown fans of Indianapolis, net, symbolic of the bounces that "Butler just played very, very hard scored on a baseline drive to cut the went to the Bulldogs all night. to win," said Irish head coach Digger lead to one point with '53 seconds 
From that point on, the Bulldogs Phelps. "We just didn't command left. would never fall hehind hy more any respect, and it was a negative But the irrepressable Burt made than two points. A 17-foot shot by when we had to play catch-up." two more free throws with seven David Rivers put the Irish ahead '56-AChad Tucker layup gave the Bul­seconds left, after the Irish had failed 54, but a foul by Scott Hicks gave ldogs a 60-58 lead with only 13 to score on a Butlt'r turnover. Bar-two free throws to 5-9 Darrin secondsgone in overtime. The game Fitzgerald, who hurt the Irish with shifted back and forth from then on, see UPSET, page 13 
Irish need to rebound 
Huskies come to town on Sunday 
By PHIL WOLF Washington had a I9-8 record might be the biggest test we've had. Assistant Sports Editor going into its game last night against They outrebounded us by I 2 out Arizona, and the Huskies are third in there last year." 
At this time of year, one can get the PAC-1 0 with a 10-5 mark. The Irish are ranked third in the tired of hearing how significant Sunday's game will be only the country with an 8.3 rebounding every game is to an independent bas­second meeting between these two margin, but they can expect some ketball team striving for a bid to the teams. Last season, the Huskies stiff competition from Washington's NCAA tournament. When the Wash­escaped with a 63-6I double­big front line. The Huskies are ex­ington Huskies visit the ACC this overtime victory over the Irish in pected to start 7-0 sophomore Chris weekend, however, talk of Notre the Seattle Kingdome. Neither team Welp at center, flanked by the 6-10 Dame's tournament hopes is sure to ever led by more than seven points Schremp£ and 6-9 junior Paul For­arise. in that contest, and Washington star tier. 
The Irish, who suffered an upset DetlefSchrempfwas held to only six Schrempf, a senior from West Ger­loss in overtime last night at Butler, points. Poor free-throw shooting many, leads the Huskies in 
70-69, will be looking for their 18th and missed field goals by Notre rebounding with a 7.9 rebounds­win on Sunday afternoon. The game, Dame down the stretch allowed the per-game average. Welp has Notre Dame's third-from-last of the Huskies to emerge from the game averaged 6.8 rpg., and Fortier contri­regular season, is scheduled to tip­victorious. butes an average of 6.4 boards per 

offat noon. This year, the game could well be outing. 
The matchup will be televised na­decided by rebounding, according The big men also are the point­
tionally by CBS-TV, with Gary to Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps. scorers for Washington. Schrempf 
Bender and Billy Packer describing "This game will be decided on the has set the scoring pace with his 16­
the action. boards," Phelps said. "We've ranked point average, Fortier averages 13.7 
among the national leaders in 
rebounding all season, but this see HUSKIES, page 12
Keys leads scoring parade as Irish women get lOth North Star victory 
By MIKE SULLIVAN As the score indicates, the Irish "We went over the game plan Sports Editor had no problem setting themselves from the last time we played them (a up for Sunday's important Evansville 79-40 Irish win) and saw that There was no overtime last night game. Trena Keys won the opening 
(Butler's leading scorer) Sue Morris 
in the ACC when the Butler wo­tip and then scored a rebound bas­had 22 points. We wanted to shut 
men's basketball team attempted to ket I 5 seconds later to put Notre her down better -something we did 
slow down Notre Dame's drive Dame ahead for good. 
tonight." toward the North Star Conference Things got ugly from there as the While Morris, who had been title and a possible NCAA Tourna­lead stretched to 20 in less than I 0 averaging almost I 9 points a game, 
ment bid. minutes and reached 31 points struggled to score nine points, the In fact, the closest the Lady Bul­before the Bulldogs pulled to within Irish bench led by senior Ruth ldogs came to pulling off the upset 30, 48-I 8, at the half. Butler did have \
Kaiser showed DiStanislao that It can was when the official tossed the ball a briefspurt early in the second half 
be counted on. Kaiser scored nine up in the air to start the game. After as it climbed to within 28 at 60-32, points, dished off seven assists, 
that it was all downhill for the NSC's but the Irish countered by outscor­
pulled down six rebounds, and last-place team as the Irish broke a ing their visitors, 39-4, over the final 
made five steals in 22 minutes, while number of team and personal 12:56. 
Denise Basford, Beth Morrison and record-; on the way to a 99-36 The 99-point explosion was Notre Laura Dougherty all came off the demolition. 
Dame's second-highest total this bench to score in double figures. · The 63-point margin of victory season and second-best in team his­The Irish will have to continue tied the school record that was set in tory, trailing only the I07 scored 
their good play this weeekend when 1981 when the Irish beat Saint against Xavier three weeks ago. Six they visit Evansville. Although the Mary's, 92-29, while the team's .638 Notre Dame players hit double fig­
Aces dropped a 74-53 decision In shooting percentage was just .006 
ures, led by Keys who finished with the ACC early in February, they have short ofanother school mark. Mean­17, as the Irish bench saw plenty of begun playing their best basketball while. Butler was setting an unoffi­action. 
of the year. Bill Barnett's team has cial record for ineptitude by 
won six of its last I I games after shooting at a blistering I '5 percent. Notre Dame did have a high num­
losing its first 12, including a 73-70 The win improved Notre Dame's ber ( 26) of turnovers, but, other­upset ofdefending North Star cham­record to I 0-I in the conference wise, the performance was 
pion Loyola. Miami (Fla.), once 
( 17-8 overall) and was the team's impressive as the team tied another ranked in the Top 20, nearly found 
12th victory of the last 14 games. school record with its 26 assists and out the hard way that Evansville Is The hot strealt has put the Irish, who had a season-high 13 blocks, 1 5 
tough at home as the Hurricanes had were once 5-6 early in January, in 
steals and 55 rebounds. The 36 to come from behind to beat the contention for a bid to the 32-team points scored by Butler was also a 
Aces. NCAA Tournament or the eight­season-best for the Irish defense. "We've got to play a good game to 
• 
team Women's NIT. With three 

"I was very happy .with the pro­beat Evansville," says DiStanislao. games remaining-Evansville on Sun­ductivity ofmost ofthe people," said "We have to play to our power 
• 

day, Dayton on Wednesday, and DiStanislao. "In the past few games, which is our inside game, but they lbr~/VIcXavier next Saturday -Mary DiS­we haven't been able to go to the play a good 2-3 zone which maltes it Trena Keys led a balancedIrish scoring attack last night, as the tanislao's squad is looking for its bench much, but we know we need difficult to get the ball inside. We Notre Dame women's basketball team routed North Star second 20-win season in the last a strong bench, especially ifwe go to just have to be intelligent in attack­conference-rival Butler, 99-36, in the ACC. Mike Sullivan bas the three years. the NCAAs. ing it." game story at left. 




