A big snowball -page 7 

VOL XX, NO. 65 MONDAY, DECEMBER9, 1985 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Paris department store explosions injure 39: seen as act of terrorism 
The United States has accused Ab­
bas, whose whereabouts are un­
PARIS · Crudely-made firebombs known, of masterminding the Oct. may have caused the explosions in 7-9 hijacking of the Italian liner Ac­two big department stores filled hille Lauro. with Christmas holiday shoppers However, in a statement that injured 39 people, 12 of them telephoned to The Associated Press seriously, authorities said yesterday. office in Baghdad, Iraq, an 
This led to speculation that the at­anonymous caller, identifying him­tacks Saturday may have been the self as an "official source" of Abbas' work of a disgruntled, or unstable, faction ofthe PLF, saidthe group had individual, rather than any known "no connection whatsoever with terrorist group. the two blasts in Paris." 
Both Galeries Lafayette and Prin­The Palestine liberation Or­temps, lavishly decorated for the ganization's Paris representative, Christmas season, were filled with Ibrahim Sousse, condemned the at­shoppers when the attacks came tack, as did the National Armenian shortly before 6 p.m. Movement, politically close to the 
branch of ASALA known as ASALA­The two stores are next to each Revolutionary Movement. 
other on the Boulevard Haussmann Informed sources said yesterdayin the city's crowded, commercial that initial laboratory tests of frag­ninth district, not far from the Paris ments found at the two blast sites in­Opera. 
dicated that jerrycans containingDr. Francis Roy, who headed the gasoline or another flammable li­rescue effort, said 25 people were quid caused the explosions. Thetreated and released following the sources, who spoke on conditionblasts and 14 remained hospitalized they not be identified, said a weakyesterday, all but two of them fuse with a crude time device, pos­seriously burned. 
sibly an alarm clock, could have 
Police said claims of respon­been attached to the jerrycans. sibility for the blasts included ones French news media speculated allegedly on behalf of the Palestine that the attacks were isolated inci­liberation Front headed by dents, the work of one person, per­Mohammed Abbas, also lrnown as haps mentally unstable and without 
Wipe Out .,.~!Poutc-
Abu! Abbas; the Islamic Jihad, or Is­a political motive. 
Senior JeffAnhut exhibits his familiar free-form sent, Anhut burst into action with his unique varie­
lamic Holy War organization, and The blasts -the first in the base­
dance to Saturday afternoon's crowd during a ty ofgyrations to the beat of the basketball band's 
the Armenian Secret Army for the ment dishware center at Galeries 

liberation of Armenia, known as 
see BOMBS, page 5
ASALA. 
Vatican synod closes with address by pope 
tions and direc~ives that the council left us are assimilated 
VATICAN CITY -Pope John into the very heart of all the Paul II, declaring that the Roman members of the people of God Catholic Church "truly desires to and translated into the way they be the church in the modern live, with consistency and love." world," closed yesterday an ex­
The pope noted that he wastraordinary synod of bishops speaking on the Feast of the Im­called to assess the Second maculate Conception, exactly 20
Vatican Council. years after the council closed
In a Mass he concelebrated after holding four sessions start­
with synod participants and ot­ing in 1962. 
her prelates in St. Peter's Basilica, Vatican II fashioned far­
the pontiff stressed that the reaching reforms, taking a more
church should also be like the accepting attitude toward
early chureh-ofthe Apostles. 
modernity and recasting the "At the end of the second mil­church's image from un­lennium after Christ, the church 
changeable monolith to an in­earnestly desires only one thing: 
stitution ready tQ modernize. 
to be the same church that was born ofthe Holy Spirit," he said in "At the end of the second his homily, delivered in Italian. millennium the church truly 
desires to be the church in theThe 65-year-old pope, who at­modern world, she desires withtended nearly every session of her all her strength to serve, sothe two-week assembly of 165 that human life on Earth may bebishops, appeared tired and his evermore worthy of man," thevoice hoarse. He said the synod pope said.
accomplished the goal it set out In his speech to the closing ses­to achieve : "celebrate, verify and sion of the synod Saturday, johnpromote the council." 
Paul said Roman Catholicism 
"As we come out of the synod, should welcome and pursue the we wish to intensify our pastoral opening to the modern world us­efforts to ensure that the Second hered in by Vatican II. Vatican Council is more widely At the same time, the pope and more thoroughly known," he warned against "false interpreta­said. "To ensure that the orienta-tions" of the council reforms. 
timeout in the Notre Dame-Loyola basketball rendition of The Surfaris' 1963 hit instrumental, game. Disguised as an oversized Christmas pre-'Wipe Out.' 
Accuracy in Academia an attempt 'to improve' classroom instruction 
Editor's note: Tbis is tbe first ofa Professors have accused the "teaching anti-nuclear propaganda two-part series examining Ac­donor-supported organization of and fringe economics in what is curacy in Academia, a group whose censorship and infringing on their supposed to be a survey course in aim is to employ tbe belp of stu­academic freedom. These charges political idealogies." dents in eliminating professors' are unfounded, said Scully. In order to prevent what he called biases from college classrooms. "These guys (professors) are un­"arrogant" professors' dressing their Today's story focuses on tbe group accustomed to words of criticism. "pet causes into scholarly attire and itself They inhabit a very warm, protected pass(ing) them off as legitimate sub­
environment," Scully said. ject matter," Scully said the AlA 
By MARK PANKOWSKI "Criticism is so strange to them relies on students to contact the 
AssistantNews Edttor that they mistake criticism for cen-Washington-based group with their 
complaints. 
Accuracy in Academia. 
Although the AlA was founded 
Its purpose, according to the only five months ago as an offshoot 
group's first report, "is to improve of Accuracy In Media, the group al­the quality of instruction that our ready "has heard from more than youth are getting in •college by inves­150 different campuses," both tigating and exposing instances in public and private, Scully said. He which students are being taught added that he "didn't think" the things that are seriously inaccurate AlA's been contacted from anyone: at or highly questionable." Notre Dame. "But I don't open all 
According to a New York Times the mail," he said. editorial, however, its purpose The AlA receives 15-20 letters a "looks more like political intimida­day, a majority of them from sup­tion." portive students, said Scully. "But 
Whatever its purpose, one thing is sorship," he continued "It's a new they don't always mention par­clear. The AlA has not gone un­experience for them. 1f it frightens ticular professors. Some say, 'I want noticed, especially in the academic them, then maybe they're just easily to volunteer,'" he said. world. frightened," Scully said, adding, "In the loosest sense we've got a 
The admittedly conservative "The word for them is not liberal or couple hundred" students who are group, which is seeking the help of progressive, but cowardly." reporting for the organization, students to report professors who The AlA is opposed to "deceptive Scully said. "But in the strictest "tailor an entire course after (their) labeling" in college catalogs, accord­sense, we've got a dozen who will ideological obsessions and ing to the group's first report, get back to us with specific informa­theories," has been attacked by col­published in November ofthis year. tion." lege and university professors In that newsletter, the group So far, Scully said, the group has around the country, according to devoted more than four pages of received "a little less than 100 Matthew Scully, current editor of criticism to an Arizona State profes­
see AlA, page 5
the AIA's-new tabloid. sor, saying the professor was 

----~------------------------------------­
The Observer Monday, December 9, 1985-page 2 
automatic pilot cycle. 
In Brief 
Dozens of fans of former Beatie John Lennon came together yesterday at the teardrop-shaped Strawberry Fields memorial park In New York's Central Park. Strawberry Fields is on the edge ofthe park, not far from the spot where Lennon was shot by Mark David Chapman the night ofDec. 8, 1980. Chapman is serving a term of 20 years to life at Attica Correctional Facility in upstate New York. No formal ceremonies were scheduled. Elliot Mintz, a family spokesman, said Lennon's widow, Yoko Ono, and their to-year-old son Sean would be In the city Sunday. "They say that the crowds get smaller each year. It's sad," said Roger Zygmund, 24, of East Brunswick, N.J. -AP 
A Chinese freighter and an Australian tanker headed toward port for repairs Saturday after colliding off the South African coast and causing a 9-mile-long oil slick. No one was hurt when the 14,000-ton Chinese cargo vessel, the Lu Shan, and the 8,000-ton Panamanian-registered Botany Triad collided early Friday In heavy fog off Cape St. Francis, east of Port Elizabeth. -AP 
A moderate earthquake shook western Turkey early Saturday, causing panic but no injuries, the independent Hur­riyet news agency reported. The quake, which registered 4.3 on the Richter scale, was felt at 12:36 a.m. and mild tremors continued for several hours, the dispatch said. -AP 
Of Interest 
Dismas House, a halfway house for former prisoners, will be opening soon in South Bend. The target date for its opening is August, 1986. Students interested in living with the fonner prisoners are asked to attend a meeting at 7 tonight at the Center for Social Concerns. Applications will be distributed. -Tbe Obseroer 
Wisconsin Club members who live off-campus may pick up their December newsletters at the OBUD office in LaFortune. The newsletter givos the specifics for the semester break bus. -The ObserT!er 
The Notre Dame Glee Club will present its an­nual Christmas concerts on Friday at 8 and 10 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets are required for admission and may be picked up free of charge beginning tomorrow at the LaFortune Record Store from 11 
a.m. to 4 p.m. There is a limit of two tickets per customer. -The Obseroer 
"King Lear" will be the subject ofa movie and discussion sponsored by the Shakespeare Club. The movie will be shown tonight at 7 and 9:30 in the Engineering auditorium. The discussion will be Thursday night at 6:30 in the library lounge. A donation of $1 is requested for the movie. -Tbe Obseroer 
The Kellogg Institute will hold a brown bag semi­nar tomorrow at noon in room I 31 Declo Hall. Frances Hagopian of the KeUogg Institute will speak on "Parties, Politicians, and the State: Problems of Democratization In Brazll."-Tbe Observer 
The World Hunger Coalition will meet 
tonight at 7:30 at the Center for Social Concerns. James MundeU, from the CHOL-CHOL Foundation, will speak about the foundation'!! work and current agricult:ural development in Latin America. Non­members are Invited to attend. -Tbe Observer 
Weather 

Bright but still chilly as it wm be partly sunny today with the high in the upper 30s. Increasing clouds with the low In the up­per 20s to low 30s tonight. Cloudy tomorrow with a 40 percent chance ofsnow or rain. High in the mid to upper 30s. -AP 


Dnlgn Editor................. Mark Mclaughlin Viewpoint Layout................ Maria Groner Design AsslsiQnt.. ................. lkth Conway Featun!S Copy Editor...............Tim Adams Typesetters ...................................... Pat Clark Featun!S Layout ................... Ellyn Mastako Bill Hlghduchrck ND Day Editor.......................... Larry Burke 
News Edltar...............................)ohn Heaaly SMC Day Editor.................... Priscilla Karle Copy Editor ................................ Tripp Baltz Ad Design ............................ Sarah Wolohan .fports Copy Editor.................. Larry Burke Catherlnr Ramsden 
VIewpoint Copy Editor....... Cindy Rauck· Pbotograpbn' ........................ Paul Cil&rdli horst 
lbr Oberrvrr (liSPS ~99 l·-4()(10) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. 1brOberrvrr is published by the students ofthe llniversity of Notre l>ame and Saini Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for I 30 per year ( llO per semester) by writing lbr Oberrvrr, P 0. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 
·16~~6. 
Thr Oberrvrr " a member of lbr Auoclatrd Prru. All reproduction nghts are rc:srrvc:d 
Beware of the Christmas spirit on automatic pilot 
The rituals ofChristmas: for most ofus, they run like a 
weU-oiled machine. 

There isn't much time to think about them. As soon as 
all those end-of-the-semester papers and projects are in, 
it's time to send the Christmas cards out. Before the 
cards are out, it's time to to decorate for your hall SYR. 
Finals loom on the horizon, and before you can catch 
your breath, you are in the midst ofhumanity crowding 
the shopping malls. In between ·wrapping presents for a 
multitude of relatives and friends you attend assorted 
Christmas parties. At home, there is a tree to trim, aunts 
and uncles to greet, and stockings to hang. 
By the time it's all over, it seems like Christmas has 
gotten lost in the 'shuffle. You've gone through all the 
ralotions, but somewhere, somehow, the point was 
missed. This depersonalization and despiritualization of 
Christmas is symbolized by th4! shortened form of its 
name: X-mas. 

"I'm a person who enjoys the holiday spirit, and I'm 
prohibited from enjoying 
the holiday spirit because of 
all this work I have to do. It's 
just miserable," moaned one 
student. 
When you wake up one morning and suddenly dis­cover that It's January and that somehow another December slipped by while you blinked, then you know you have become another ' victim of the growing syndrome: Christmas on automatic pilot. 

Jlor students, it's easy to see the syndrome as just another consequence of the misfortune of having to take l-\.4~t:: W£Jffi/ot-r 
exams right In the middle of 
the: Christmas season. 

But it isn't that simple: just ask a parent who gets maybe two days off for Christmas (ifthey're lucky) and has to spend them [ooking for Masters of the Universe or Rainbow Bright doUs for their kids, stuffing stockings and hosting a turkey dinner. 
There is so much to do that there is hardly any time left tobe. Peace and joy have to take a back seat to shop­ping, wrapping, cooking and cleaning. 
The automatic pilot syndrome doesn't just begin and end with Christmas. It's just more conspicuous at a time that is supposed to be filled witltl merriment. 
It's so easy to go through life from one day to next, getting one thing done just so you can move on to the next, never stepping back to observe your surround­ings and adjust the steering. 
But as Ebenezer Scrooge or tllre Grinch could teU you, Christmas Is a time for a change ofheart. It's a good time to wake up and look at where you're going. It's an ideal time to renew old friendships and appreciate things 
@REDKEN 


Mary Healy 
Accent Editor 
taken for granted aU year. 
There are dozens of ways to step outside the Christmas routine. Instead of getting caught up in the holiday crush, consider contributing a turkey dinner to a needy family, or buying presents for kids who don't often get them. Ask the post office about its program for answering letters little kids write to Santa Claus, or even be a volunteer Santa Claus for a day. Help out a nursing home with its Christmas party, or go carrolling in a run· down neighborhood. 
Closer to home, there's no better time than Christmas to teU a younger brother how much you appreciate him, or leave a little present for your dorm maid. Mid· night Mass on Christmas Eve is also a beautiful reminder of what Christmas is all about. 
The rock stars who put together the Feed the World album last Christmas are a prime example of how worthwhile it is to find something more in the holiday season. 
Every step away from the routine and toward the heart of the holiday is one step away from that 

As the sign in front ofthe Knights of Columbus build· ing says, "Keep Christ in Christmas." 
Da-wbo fores, da-wbo dores Welcome Christmas, come our way Da-wbo fores, da-wbo dores Welcome Christmas, Christmas day Christmas day Is In ourgrasp So long as we have bands to clasp Welcome Christmas wbtle we can Heart to heart and band in band 
-"How the Grinch stole Christmas" 

How you live 1. may save your life. t!!w. 
Night Perm 
2599 Includes 
Cut & Style 
Off~r hp•~ 12/31185 

PLUS RECEIVE FREE REDKEN PRODUCTS TO MAINTAIN YOUR NEW PERM! 
The Day Into Night perm by Redken will add beautiful body and bounce 
to any Holiday hairstyle! II will lake you from casually elegant to elegantly 
casual• With the purchase of this perm, as a special Christmas gill. you will 
receive sample sizes of Amrno Pon Shampoo and Phinal Phase Conditioner ­
products specially created by Redken for permed hair! 
No Appointments-just Walk In! 

NILES River Froat Sqaan 30 E. Mal• St. 615-7210 Ope. S.llday -a-5p.m.
® 
l..s.De S4tture 
937Bndh 
237-9049 

Bayer'1 O.tlet Mall  Ply-til Ceater  
5901 Gl'llpe Rd.  l019A Mlddp8 An.  
2'71-4136  935-9914  
1122 Scottldale Mall  
lmalld alld Mlaal An.  
291-8009  

Moa• ..Sat., la.m.-9 p.•.;S.•. 10 •·•··5 P·•· 

.-----------------------~-----------------­
The Observer 

The Notre uame Cborale ana nrass r.nsemQie to the public. Tbe mixed chorale and" ensemble per­presented an evening program last night at 8 tn formed for approximately an bour to a receptive Sacred Heart Cburcb. Under the sponsorship ofthe and appreciative audience. department ofmusic, the event was free and open 
Monday, December 9, 1985 -page 3 
Reagan tax overhaul may end in Hou-se vote 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Thanks to an un­enthusiastic public and a skeptical Congress, President Reagan is perilously close to losing the tax­overhaul plan that just six months ago he hailed as the spark that would set off a second American revolu­tion. 
Without some monumental arm­

twisting by the -president, say 
leaders of Congress, the House just 
might reject the bill when it comes 
to a final vote this week. That 
probably would kill any chance of 
major tax changes before 1987. 
But in his weekly radio address on Saturday, Reagan signaled a deter­mination to continue his fight for tax changes. He urged the House to pass an amended version of his tax proposal written by Democrats on the House Ways and Means Commit­tee. 
"While the proposals before the House are far from perfect, they do represent an essential step toward a tax code that is fairer, simpler and encourages greater growth," Reagan said. "I hope the House will vote yes next week and allow the Senate to consider debate and to improve this important measure." 
The House also is scheduled to 
vote on a substitute tax plan put 
together by the Republican leader­
ship. 
The congressional bills follow the broad outlines of Reagan's proposal: either would cut taxes for most in­dividuals, raise them for most cor­porations, snare some of the millionaires and giant corporations that have been able to dodge the tax collector, and sweep millions of lower-income Americans off the income-tax rolls altogether. 
Delivering the Democrats' reponse to Reagan's radio address, Ways and Means Chairman Representative Dan Rostenkowski, D-Ill., said the bill "carries more tax reform and more tax fu.irness than any bill in our history. 
"What has not changed over the 
last eight months is the president's 
determination to move a reform tax 
bill through the House this year, nor 
has mine." 
In his original proposal, Reagan recommended that a significant share of the total tax burden be shifted to corporations, chiefly by repeating the 1 0-percent invest­ment credit and by scaling back deductions allowed for depreciation of machinery and buildings. 
Initial East Coast test of Nav.Y cruise missile reveals a dud 
WASHINGTON The first test of a Navy Tomahawk cruise missile on the East Coast ended in failure yes­terday afternoon when a chase plane had to activate the missile's parachute system and send it to the ground, the Pentagon announced last night. 
The missile fell to the ground ap­proximately three miles southeast of Freeport, Fla., about 2:30p.m. EST, said Bob Holsapple, the public aiiairs director for the cruise missile program. It came down in a sparsely populate'.! area, he ~i~ 
The spokesman said there was no damage reported to the missile and no damage to any private property. He said investigators had recovered the missile and taken it to Eglin Air Force Base in Florida for investiga­tion tb determine what went wrong. 
"The chase plane saw something wrong with the missile shortly after it came ovc;r the coast," Holsapple said, "We don't know what was wrong. But he decided to take con­troland pop the chute." 
Three planes were monitoring the missile's flight, he said. The spokesman said the cruise missile had been fire~ shortly before 
r-----------------------------------------~ 
What makes Monday special? 
the failure by a nuclear-powered at­tack submarine in the Gulf of Mexico. He declined to id-entify the vessel participating in the test. 
Yesterday's failure ended a string of 24 successful tests of the Tomahawk in the last 18 months at a range on the West Coast. 
Yesterday's test was also the first to be conducted at a newly activated East Coast range that includes a "racetrack" course over sparsely populated areas in Fl01ida and Alabama. 
A tomahawk that successfully flies that East Coast route is supposed to come down at Eglin Air Force Base. The East Coast test range was ac­tivated by the Pentagon to avoid the need for submarines and other ships to travel to the West Coast to test the missiles. 
Holsapple estimated the Tomahawk missile, which carried a dummy warhead, was flying at 500 miles per hour when the failure oc­curred. He said he could not predict how long it might take for inves­
tigators  to  determine  what  went  
wrong.  
A  cruise  missile  can  be armed  

with either conventional or nuclear 
warheads and is designed to fly close 
to the ground or ocean to evade 
radar. The Navy has previously said 
it hopes to equip more than 190 of 
its ships and submarines with the Tomahawk. Testing of the weapon began in 1978. and the first deploy­ments occurrt>d in 1983 aboard the battleship Nt>w Jersey. 
Approximately 20 Navy vessels have been outfitted with the missile to date. Since 1978, there have been 160 tests of the missile. Holsapple could not say how many ofthat total had resulted in failure. 

One call, 
three friends ••• 
and our s7.99 Monday special. 
One call to DOMINO'S PIZZA~ gets you our Monday special­a 16-lnch, single topping pizza for just $7.99. It's a great way to get together with three other students and enjoy a hot, custom-made pizza for about 
$2each~ 
And Domino's Pizza Delivers''' Free. In 30 minutes or less, or you get $3 off your order. 
So make Monday special with our $7.99 Monday special. It's available all evening every Monday. Only from Domino's 
Pizza-~. 
Call us: 2n-21s1 
1835 South Bend Ave. Plaza 23 Center South Bend 
Our drrVers carry less than $20.00. No coupon· ner-..essary Jusl request the Monday specral "16-mch przza generally serves 3·5 people. Limited delivery are•. t;. 1985 Domino's Prua. Inc. 

DOMINO'S 
PIZZA 


DELIVERS® FREE. 

Guatemalans able to participate in elections; first in over 30 years 
GUATEMALA CllY-Guatemalans voted yestc!rday for a civilian presi­dent after more than 30 years ofvir­tually uninterrupted and often brutal military rule in this Central American country. By dawn, lines of voters, mostly men, were forming in streets littered with the remains of bonfires and spent fireworks from a festival the night before, ready tO cast their bal­lots when the polls opened at 7 a.m. ( 8 a.m. EST). 
The runoff election was between 
Vinicio Cerezo, 42, a lawyer who is 
the slightly left-of-center candidate 
from the Christian Democratic 
Party, and Jorge Carpio, 53, a 
newspaper publisher viewed as a 
somewhat right-of-center candidate 
from the Nation Center Union. 
They were the top vote-getters in the first election Nov. 3 in which eight candidates ran, but in which no candidate received a clear majority as required by law. 
Pre-election polls gave Cerezo a 
2-to-1 margin over Carpio, who 
~-~:>-.~:o....,.-~:o.-.~-l:>-1:>-.,........,.,.l;').,.l:>-·...,.~:>.,.t>-t>&>.t>&>.t>-t>&>.">-"'-"'&>-"'&>-l:>-t>&>.l:>-t>-Q,:o,..,,.....,.,.,,...,.,.,.,.,.,.~ ll 
0 C ND/SMC Theatre Presents  Ha~ Fever  by  •l  
~  Noel Coward  f  
~ 0 ~  A Delightfully Frivolous  comedy  0• ~  
- 
~ ~  Q'Laughlin -Auditorium  Student Tickets $4.00  «  
' •· t  December5,6,7,12,13,14 At 8:10 P.M.  MaybepurchasedatDoor Or Reserved by calling the  ' •~  
t  ..  . .  ..  BoxOffice at 284-4626  t  

.,..:.,.._,.,.,.,.,,.. . .:.-.~:>-.<>.i=-lii<=·t>-!ii&>-~-!ii-!ii_!ii_!ii_!ii_l:\>_~.-.!ii-lii-~-l:';>-~-~,..1:>-l:>-t>_~:>_~:>&>-l:>...t>...l:>...t> . 
founded his own political party two years ago. In the November election, Cerezo received 38.6 percent of the vote and Carpio got 20.2 percent. 
The new president will succeed Ge'n.eral Oscar Humberto Mejia Victores, the last of five successive military rulers. He came to power in a coup in 1983, deposing General EfrainJose Rios Montt, who, in turn, gained power in a 1982 coup. 
Guatemala has .been ruled by a succession of military or military­dominated governments since a 1954 coup backed by the CIA toppled the left-leaning administra­tion of}acobo Arbenz. 
Guatemala is in the midst of its worst depression in 50 years, with inflation running at more than 50 percent a year and about 45 percent ofthe work force either out ofwork or underemployed. 
As the country's economic 

problems deepened over the past 
five years, the military became more 
enthusiastic about turning the 
government over to civilians andes­
caping blame for calamity. 
This apparently was the motiva­tion behind Mejia's promise to return Guatemala to civilian rule and schedule the Nov. 3 election. 
Diplomats and other observers, however, were openly skeptical the military would fully hand over the reins of government to the new president when he takes office Jan. 14. 
More than two decades of war against a small but determined leftist insurgency also has taken an economic toll and left the country with a dismal human rights record. 
It was that record that prompted then-President Jimmy Carter to withdraw all U.S. military aid in 1977. Economic aid also was negligible un­til this year, when it leaped to 
S101.5 million from S31.3 million in 1984. 
Human rights activists estimate 38,000 people, mostly poor Mayan Indians who live in Guatemala's central and northern highlands, were killed or kidnapped by the army and right-wing death squads in 
. the past 20 years. 
-------~------.. 
-

The Observer Monday, December 9, 1985 -page 4 
IfElizabeth Barrett and Robert Browni~ had AT&T's 60%and 40%cfiSCOUnts,it would have been aterrible lossfor English lterature. 

And of course, she wouldn't have had to on your state-to-state calls. restrict her feelings to a mere sonnets Call between 5pm and llpm, Sunday length, either. through Friday, and you'll save 40% on your 
Mter all, you can always think of one state-to-state calls. more way to tell someone you love them So when you're asked to choose a longwhen you're on the phone. distanoe company, choose AThT. Because 
Let us count the ways you can save. with AThT's 60% and 40% discounts, you just call weekends till5pm Sundays, or can satisfy your heart's desire without from llpm to Bam, Sunday through Friday, exhausting your means. and you'll save 60% off AThT's Day Rate Reach out and touch $Omeone~ 
© 1985 AT&T Communicati4ns 


----~--~--' -----­
The Obserwr Monday, December 9, 1985-page 5 


OPEC ministers agree to halt propping up of oll prices 
which for years has sought to Santos added that it has not been her than price, and Saudi Oil Mini· mum market share of about 18 mil· impose its prices on buyers. decided what the OPEC market ster Ahmed Zaki Yamani said a lion barrels daily was acceptable to share should be or how the cartel formal agreement was expected most ministers.
GENEVA · OPEC oil ministers OPEC in recent years has let its 
should implement the new plan. today.
agreed in principle yesterday to stop share of the oil market shrink in or· Independent producers have
He said But Indonesian Oil Minister Sub· trying to prop up petroleum prices a six·nation committee
der to maintain a fixed price, cur· succeeded in grabbing business
had been created to study the matter roto told reporters no consensusand instead seek a stable share ofthe rently S28 a barrel. The new strategy from OPEC in recent years because
and make recommendations to an had been reached. Subroto refusedworld market, a senior Ecuadorian would commit the cartel to defend they have allowed their prices to
OPEC ministerial meeting in to say more, except that the mini·official said. 
its share of the market, even if it move up and down with market
February or March. The panel is sters would reconvene for a third 
means allowing the price to fall. trends. OPEC has stubbornly sought
The decision, ifapproved at a final headed by Venezuela and the other day oftalks on today. 
to impose a fixed price.
session today, could speed the Asked ifail 13 oil minister agreed members are Iran, Iraq, Algeria, the OPEC currently produces 17 mil· decline in oil prices that many to the change in tactics, Deputy Oil United Arab Emirates and Kuwait. lion to 18 million barrels a day, or OPEC's share of the market has analysts are predicting . for early Minister Fernando Santos Alvite of Belkacem Nabi, Algeria's oil mini· about one-third of world consump· dropped to barely one-third of non· 1986. It also would signal a major Ecuador replied: "Yes, everybody ster, said a consensus "more or less" tion. communist oil consumption switch in tactics by the Organization agreed to defend our share of the had been reached to focus on Conference sources, speaking on compared with about two-thirds as of Petroleum Exporting Countries, market." defending a share of the market rat· condition of anonymity, said a mini· recently as 1980. 
to an eight-page tabloid, he said. It That violates the spirit of the clas· sidered it, the organization does not "The student senate at the Univer­will have a paid and unpaid circula· sroom. pay students to take a certain class, sity of Massachusettes came down
AlA 
tion of8,000 and will be distributed "However, it doesn't violate that said Scully. "It wasn't necessary," he with its full moral authority on the continuedfrom page 1 to most colleges and universities, he spirit to listen to a complaintofastu· · said. AlA. But who cares what a bunch of said. dent enrolled in that particular Scully also said the AlA has not young ideologues think of the 
class," Scully added. contacted any campus groups. group," Scully said. 
reports about specific professors." 
Depite popular notions to the 

"That's not such an overwhelming There are no plans to begin However, the chairman of Notre 
contrary, the AlA does not recruit recruiting students at Notre Dame, Dame's College Republicans, Jim "The student senate at the Univer·figure," he added. "It's not a students, he said. "There's no need he said. "Things being as they are, Adrian, said he had received "a stan· sity of Washington did somethingnationwide sweep. We simply want to recruit them.... Recruitingwould we'd be run off of campus," Scully dard form letter" from the AlA and similar; as if we're supposed toto find representative examples of defeat the whole purpose," said said, referring to negative press its first report. recognize their moral authority onexcess in the classroom and then Scully. 

reports which have "intimidated" So far, Scully said, the student this matter," he said, adding,
bring them to public attention." Three professors will be named in "There are certain unspoken many students and turned them governments of two universities "They're only the product of what the AlA's next report, which has rules. Certainly one is you don't against the group. have passed "censuring measures" we're talking about · ideological in· send someone in to stir uo trouble. Although the AlA once con· against the AlA. doctrination."
chan~ed its format from a newsletter 

Bombs 
continuedfrom page 1 
Lafayette, the second at the ground floor perfume counterat Printemps · produced a flash of flames, accord· ing to witness accounts. 
Jean-Marc Gely, the Printemps marketing director, said the device which caused the explosion was in a sack lying on a counter. The sack was suspiciously heavy and store security was summoned to inspect it. The sack exploded in a flash of flames, injuring two security offi· cials, among others. 
ACCURACY 
If you've got U, wewantyoul 

The Observer needs copy 
editors for next semester. 
Interested? Stop by the Observer office, third floor, LaFortune, for an application. 
Questions? 

The 
Observer 
239-5303 
SDDN 

~-H. KIIPUIN 
EDUCATIONAL CENTER In New 'mrlt Stilr Stinley H K.i(:llin EGuuttOnal r.tnltr l.ld TEST PAEI'IlRATlON SPECIAI.ISTS SN:E 1938 CALL DAYS. EVENINGS I WEEKENDS 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend. indiana 46637 
(21 









~i~~~_<>__i_ll__t________________
Mo-nd-ay_,D_ec-em-be-r9_,i_98_5_p_age-6 
One needs knowledge ofjustice to practice it 
The dictionary defines it as the quality of being guided by truth, reason and fairness. An old proverb claims that an hour of doing it Is worth a hundred in prayer. It is something that Sophocles' "Electra," Shakespeare's "Hamlet" and Twain's "Huckleberry Finn" 
were searching for. It is an ideal that both Thomas Jefferson and Superman dedicated their lives to achieving. The recent bishop's synod mandates that "those who enjoy the benefits ofa Catholic higher education (that's us) have an obligation to provide our society with it." But what is it? 
Jane Harless justice and human rights 
justice. . . how can it be defined? The term is used widely. Justice is something we all 
have experienced but in different ways and forms. We ask where the justice is when an 18-year-old boy is murdered and ask where the justice is when the 6 p.m. shuttle leaves at 5:55p.m. We scream for justice when we hear of bombs going off in northern Ireland and El Salvador, and scream for justicewhen we get a 
"C" on the test we stayed in and studied five hours for. 
We complain of injustice when our countrymen are held hostage and complain of injustice when the dining hall serves liver and onions. justice or injustice is something we all have realized in our lives and various dimen­sions. 
What is your definition ofjustice? The ques­tion was asked to various Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students. These are some of the replies: (It is only just the names be withheld). "It is all that is fair," "An attempt at truth," "The art of insuring equality to all people," 

"The American ideal," "The first thing that 
comes to mind is our system of laws," "The 
opposite of injustice," "freedom," and 
"Equality ofman." 
Obviously, the word justice encompasses many ideas, emotions and experiences. It is a definition that is. difficult to put into words al­though we all have a basic understanding of what it is. The Brazilean Cardinal, Dom Helder Camara, once said, "The world iS so compl­icated that it would be ridiculous to try and 
produce a formula applicable to all situations, races, countries and continents. But there are problems overriding this diversity which face humanity as a whole, although, ofcourse, they occur in varying forms and degrees. Is there anywhere in the· world free from injustice, in­equality and division?" 
Injustice is something all humanity encounters. Woodrow Wilson claimed in one of his speeche~;. "Justice has nothing to do 
with expediency. Justice has nothing to do 
with any temporary standard whatever. It is 
rooted and grounded in the fundamental in­
stincts ofhumanity." There are as many defini­
tions of justice as there are personalities of 
people, but the definitions do have something 
in common. As Cicero says, "The foundations 
of justice are that no one shall suffer wrong." 
It is not easy to take a position on justice. 
Taking a stand is never easy. Justice education 
tries to assist an awakening. In order for one to 
counter injustice he or she must have a clear 
understanding ofwhat justice is. 
Knowledge is produced in response to 
questions. So ask yourself the question. What 
is my definition of justice, and what is my 
obligation to accomplish it in my society? 
jane Harless is a seniorEnglish majorand the coordinator of communications for the justice Committee atSaint Mary's. 

Minnesota fan wishes Holtz the best of luck at ND 
Iffootball were life, you could consider this to be a letter from Lou Holtz's last "steady." This would constitute the feelings of the one he left behind; the one he spurned for another. This somewhat personal, biased note would telJ you our life together, and how Holtz left us. For Holtz had a relationship with every stu­dent, student-athlete and citizen ofthe state of Minnesota. 
Howard Alan Sigal guest column 
It is no secret that Gopher football was in very sorry shape back In 1983. Lou arrived that December to a program in shambles. The first question we could have asked was "Why would Lou come here?" Instead, we were just grateful that anyone would be willing to coach the Gophers. Nobody, to this very day, 
really understands the circumstances of his 
leaving Arkansas to coach at Minnesota. 
But Holtz came to save the day. He brought new hope to Minnesotans. Oh, he also brought with him requests. He wanted a multi-million dollar indoor practice facility. He wanted special dispensation for Gopher athletes, ·so that they could register for classes before all other students. And of course, his salary was the highest ever for a Minnesota coach. He asked for all this, and he also wanted an "out" in his contract for Notre Dame or ot­
her college openings. He asked at a point when we were desperate, and we dug deep. 
Not only did we listen to and obey what he had to say, but we gave him our hearts and souls. We filled the Hubert Humphrey Metrodome for the first time in Gopher foot­ball history. We bought more than 50,000 season tickets and the hotdogs and souvenirs to go with them. We contributed millions of dollars to the program and the facilities. We gave ourselves completely to Holtz and his vi­sion ofthe future. 

And Holtz gave something to us. That is 
what makes a relationship lasting and intense. 
He gave us hope. He asked for and got the best 
from his athletes. He thought that with com­
mitment, anything was possible. He taught 
this idea to his athletes, and to the people of 
Mi1mesota. He said he would be there with us 
in Pasadena, for a Rose Bowl. He believed in 
us, and we in him. 
Ofcourse, the ones who believed in him the most were his athletes. He taught them foot­ball, but he also taught them that classes were important. He taught the priorities of life to those he would lead to the Rose Bowl. These were the same men he had recruited and motivated. Those athletes will now need to motivate themselves, for if they are Rose Bowl-bound, it w'll not be with Holtz. 
It hurt us most that he did not tell us earlier of his dream. We shared practically every ot­
her dream and fear. Not that we c;m't under­
stand the magnetism and attachment that 
Notre Dame tradition would offer any football 
coach. We just thought that he was "ours," for 
at least five years. At least until our shared goal 
was met. 
And because a relationship is a complicated bond, once it is over you have mixed feelings. You remember the good times and the bad times you shared. And if possible, you try to put aside the bittersweet memories so as to wish your former partner the best in his or her new relationship. Good luck, we will see you in the National Championship soon. Call it "t!le Metrodome versus the Golden Dome." 
Howard Alan Sigal is a 1981 graduate of the University of Minnesota, and a 1984 graduate ofthe University ofMinnesota Law School, where be was the editor of the law school newspaper, Quaere. He bas no idea how to diagram an option play, but be knows one when be sees it. 
South Bend community owes Richardson much 
DearEditor: 
Some of those who happened to be nearby Juniper Road last Monday at approximately 11 
a.m. saw a long procession of police cars with their lights flashing. It was the city of South Bend and St. joseph County's last goodbye to the late St. joseph County sheriff, William J. Richardson. 
For many of those who do not know, Ric­hardson was a great man, who set an example that should be recognized, admired and learned from. A diehard fan of the Fighting Irish, he began his engineeringcareer at Notre Dame, only to be called to active duty one year later by the Marine Corps, in the Korean War. After the war, he completed his studies In Chicago, and returned to the South Bend 
area. 


P.O. BoxQ 
some adversity and criticism for being a 
civilian. He took the job, worked at it and 
made the St. joseph County Police Depart­
ment the best in Indiana. 
While in office two years ago, he discovered 
he had cancer, and regardless of knowing his 
ultimate fate, he continued the job that was 
trusted to him. He further participated in 
fund-raising events for cancer research to 
prevent others from the same destiny. 
On Nov. 28, Thanksgiving Day, after a long 
fight against his disease, Richardson died at 
the age of 55. This community owes him 
much because he cared so much, and did so 
much. He will long be remembered. 
Enrique Galvez Notre Dame gradtlate student 
Freedom of professors should not be hindered 
DearEditor: 

~~--~~~----~~--~-----------------~ 
Americans traditionally have considered most Students who are so closed-minded as to important Is the right to free expression. find the teachings ofleft-of-center instructors Professors have no responsibility to temper offensive should withdraw from the class(es) the ideas developed in class lectures by in question, rather than seeking the interven­
presenting another view that may be contrary tion ofthis agency that allegedly is striving for to their actual beliefS. Exposure to diverse greater "accuracy" in academia. schools of thought is an essential component AndrewA. Clemency 
ofany true education. Dillon Hall 

A few years later his engineering abilities were recognized as he became St. Joseph County engineer and later South Bend city en­gineer, building many ofthe roads and bridges in the area. In 1981, his competence, ad­ministrative expertise and leadership allowed him to take the challenge of rebuilding a dis­credited police department, regardless of 
Doonesbury 
I would like to thank Assistant News Editor Jane Kravcik for making the Notre Dame com­munity aware of the threat that the organiza­tion Accuracy in Academia poses to America's higher education system. 
Though the group claims to be "working to a continuation of America as we know it," it fails to remember that the one freedom 


Garry Trudeau 
Quote of the day 
"You may give gifts wit­hout caring -but you can't care without giving." 
"ie~p.~o~i~n~t~------------------------------------------M_o_n_d_ay~,_n_e_c_em__be_r_9_,_t9_B_s___P_a_ge__7 
Professor Rettig on Halley's Comet 
With this article by Rettig on Halley's Comet, we initiate a series on science for readers ofThe Observer. Each article will be on "Something Diffenmt," both in the sense that the topic will changefrom one issue to the nextand in the sense that the authors will attempt to display bowour understanding of the subject is different today from what it was yesterday. "Something Different" is simply another way ofsaying "research" and in this series, scientists at Notre Dame who are contributing to advances in their fields will be highlighted. 
As "masters ofceremonies"for this series, I have the delightful task of introducing the authors. Professor Terrence Rettig is weU known to many of you through his two astronomy courses, Descriptive Astronomy (a "recommended University elective") and Astrophysics. He was instrumental in developing the immensely popular introduc­tory astronomy courses at lndtaflll Univer­sity (where be received bis PhD.). Rettig is currently involved with producing digitized video images ofHalley's Comet in conjunc­tion with the high-energy physics group at Notre Dame. 
(Professorjohn Kozak is assistant dean of the College ofScience and instructor in the course, Concepts in Modern Science.) 
ProfessorjohnKozak something different 
Why such a fuss over a comet that's been around since the Chinese first noted its ob­servation in 240 B.C. Halley's Comet has his­torically been a fascination to mankind not only because its well-known period cor­responds closely to the lifespan of man but also because its reappearance hasso oftencor­responded to important events. Normally, a comet is named for its discoverer but in this case it was Edmund Halley who noted in 1705 the periodicity of the comet and first applied Newton's law of gravity to comets. He demonstrated its return to the inner solar sys­tem every 76 years since recorded history and predicted the next return of this famous comet in I 758. Historically, Comet Halley was feared as the forerunner offateful events such as the fall of cities and rulers to the propagator of earthquakes, floods, war and plagues. Mark Twain noted his birth coincided with the appearance of Halley's Comet and predicted the two unaccountable freaks that appeared together must go out together -he died one day after the perihelion passage of Halley's Comet on April20, 1910. 
By 191 0, the general population realized most of the previous superstitious fears of comets were unfounded. But the appearance and position of the 1910 Halley's Comet brought new fears. A French astronomer Camille Flammarion had spectroscopically detected cyanogen ( HCN) in the tail of the:~ approaching comet which alone would not arouse great apprehension, but in addition that year the earth would pass through the poisonous tail of Halley's Comet. The headlines in the Chicago paper read "CHICAGO IS TERRIFIED-People are Stop­ping Up Doors and Windows to Keep Out Cyanogen." Entrepreneurs, taking advantage of the situation, were selling anti-comet pills to provide protection from the comet. Of course, most people realized the tail of a comet was much too rarified to warrant any alarm. Still, in Virginia it was noted Halley's Comet did more for the church than a decade of revival meetings. Recent ads have offered comet insurance, and ifyou're interested you can join an association sponsoring the return in 2062. 
This celestial eventprovides unequalled an­ticipation and commercialism that ranges from expensive tours to the southern hemi­sphere, dozens ofT-shirts, a flurry oftelescope 
and binocular sales, medals, posters, stamps and comet talks by the local astronomer to every conceivable local club, TV and radio sta­tion. Unfortunately, this appaJ:ition is the worst for Halley viewing since the 1600 ap­pearance. During this perihelion passage the earth and Halley's Comet will be on opposite sides of the sun, and when it does reappear from its closest approach it will be positioned extremely low on the southern horizon. From the South Bend latitude, the coma's highest appearance will only be a few degrees albove the southern horizon. We might be able to view the comet tail especially if it stretches to its predicted 30 degrees above the horizon, but only if you are far enough away from city and Notre Dame light pollution. In 1910, the comet was described as a wondrous spectacle as lt blazed a path across the night sky, but with current light pollution and its unfor­tunate location in the night sky, our best and 
maybe only hope is to go south (as if you 
needed an excuse!) 
So why all the scientific fuss about this return of Halley's Comet? Most current com­etary theories date to 1950 when the Dutch astronomer jan Oort proposed the solar 1}'5­tem is surrounded by a huge spherical cloud of billions or trillions of comets that extends halfway to the nearest star. Fred Whipple sug­gested these comets are composed of frozen ices such as water, carbon dioxide and minerals now referred to as the "dirty snow-position and state of the very early solar sys­tem. Fro111 probes traveling to the comet, we may be able to detect organic compounds that will provide insight to the origin of life on earth. Earth-bound observations have provided identification of several dozen neutral molecules in the coma and ions such as carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, hydroxide, CH, nitrogen, calcium, carbon, cyanide and water In the gas plasma tail. The gas or ion tail is formed from ionized molecules that are carried away from the coma by the extended magnetic field of the sun. l111e sun's magnetic field acts as a selective rake that only affects the Ions. Most ofthese ions result from dissociation ofparent molecules such as water, HCN, methyl and CN near the comet nucleus, but the exact processes are not understood and hence the exact composition is not known. 

Not only is the exact composition not known, but also where comets are formed is .not really understood. Ifthey were formed in the outer regions of the solar system as the proto-sun was condensing, you could expect .the more stable molecules such as methane, ammonia and water to dominate in the frozen comet. But if the birthplace for comets is in cold interstellar douds, one might expect to find the frozen exotic molecules now being discovered by radio astronomers in clouds of interstellar gas and dust. Several examples are 

ball theory" (See accompanying di.a8rant). Present Ideas put the size of a single comet nucleus at just a few miles in diameter (no ac­tual comet nucleus has ever been seen or analyzed), but these comet nuclei are ex­tremely important because they are believed to be fossils from the primordial gas and dust that formed the solar system some five billion years ago. The dirty snowballs spend most of the time frozen in vast comet reservoir mil­lions of miles from the sun. When it does return to the inner solar system, the outer layers ace heated and the vaporization process exposes material in approximately the same initial state offive billion years ago. 
The solar radiation produces heating of the outer layers of a comet and the subsequent vaporization forms a large coma surrounding the nucleus. We see this coma by a process of fluorescence whereby the atoms and molecules are heated by solar energy. Though only a few miles in diameter, the nucleus weighs billions of tons. When the comet ap-. proaches within one astronomical unit of the sun, solar wind and solar radiation pressure are great enough to push much of the vaporized material into gas and dust tails mil­lions of miles long. These tails always point away from the sun. The gas tail shines by atomic fluorescence, and the dust tail can be seen by reflected sunlight. 
Spectroscopic analysis of the coma and gas tail will give further dues to the initial com­formaldimine, methyl alcohol, and met cyanide. Either of these sources of pare molecules could provide the same coma ant tail structure seen in comets. 

To obtain more specific data on the com­position and processes taking place in comets several probes are on their way to intercept Halley's Comet in March of 1986. The Soviet Union has sent two Vega probes expected to come within 10,000 kilometers of the nucleus. These probes contain narrow and wide angle cameras and spectrometer to photograph the coma, obtain infrared spectra and images ofthe nucleus, study the nature of the dust, and also to monitor the magnetic field and plasma interaction. The European Space Agency has launched a spacecraft named Giotto that may survive to within 500 kilometeJ~s of the nucleus. The Giotto spacecraft was named for the famous Italian painter who first depicted the comet in his fresco of the Adoration of the Magi. This spacecraft may provide the only color images of the nucleus. Because of its close proximity to the nucleus it will also obtain a sampling of the dust in addition to experiments using the mass spectrometer and magnetometers. Giotto will be moving some 68km/sec through the dust in the coma and is not ex­pected to survive the high velocity dust par­tides, hence all of the transmissions will be sent to earth in real time. The japanese have launched two probes designed to monitor the 
Editorial Bloard 

-----. ----A.-==Y~ --­
--Ihe-Ob.se""'~er-. 
Editor·in-Chief ............................. Sacah E. Hamilton
P. 0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan 
News Editor ............................................. Frank Upo
The Observer IS the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough 
Notre pame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol1cies of the 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino 
administration of etther institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­
Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb 
Sible. Uns1gned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy ranes. leners and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is 
Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphyavailable to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches campus. through leners. is encouraged. 
Copy Cl1ief..........................................Philip H. Wolf 
coma growth and effect of the solar wind on 
the comet. They also contain ultraviolet tele­
scopes, camera and solar wind analyzer. 
1
Noteworthy is the lack of NASA participation 
l 1
in the Halley missions. This is one of the few times the United States will be more ofan ob­server than a participant. Our lack of par­ticipation Is due to budgetary cuts made 1 several years ago. There is hope the NASA­1
.,
planned Comet Rendezvous/Asteroid Flyby 
to Comet Wild in 1995 will be funded. The 
goal is to remain alongside the periodic comet 
for a period of three years and as dose as a 
distance ofsix miles. 
Comets have been suspected to have struck the earth In the past, but recent suggestions have added more Importance to these encounters. Recent theories have suggested that comets In their slow wanderings near the edge of the solar system may have gathered organic compounds from interstellar space. . Chemical reactions below the surface of the nuclei may have melted the frozen Ices creat­
ing a tiny pool in which organic compounds • 
could evolve to living cells. The theory 
proposes that such a comet struck the earth 
some four billion years ago seeding the earth 
with life and thitt comets are still providing 
new viruses and bacteria for the planet. Of 
course, this is still speculation, but other 
theories suggest many comets struck the 
earth during the early formaton stage and left 
a veneer of material or coating on the surface 
rich in organic molecules needed for the 
,
formation of amino acids and eventually proteins. This leaves us with the possibility ,
1 that molecules in humans most likely 
1
originated in old comets that struck the earth 
1
billions ofyears ago. 
1
Even more fascinating is s suggestion that 
1
the sun has an unseen stellar companion. A very til.int red or brown dwarfcircling the sun every 29 million years. This unseen com­panion is proposed to have and elllptical orbit 
J 
that brings it near the Oort cloud of comets periodically. When this unseen companion approaches the Oort cloud, millions of com­ets are gravitationally disturbed, some of these comets approach the inner solar system and may strike the planetearth. Ifseveral com­ets struck the earth, physical damage would not be overwhelming but the dust thrown into the earth's atmosphere would provide an insulating blanket to keep the sun's radiation out. Hence, the earth would be thrown into an ice age. The reason this theory is given any credence at all is the fact that mass extinc­tions, such as the dinosaurs' extinction, have occurred on the average ofevery 29 to 32 mil­lion years. Terrestial sediment analysis from 65 million years ago has shown a higher than normal abundance of iridium. Iridium is an element known to be more common in space than on the planet earth, suggesting that some form of extra-terrestial occurrence. Hope­fully, further study of comets will provide more answers to these questions. 
Catch the comet 
Anyone wishing to view Halley's Comet may do so at The Astronomy Observatory located on the roofofthe fourth floor of the Nieuwland Science Hall. 
Visiting hours arefrom 7 p.m. to 11 
p.m. Sunday through Thursday. 
During tbe stated times, an assistant is on duty; however, Wednesdays are bestfor the staff to deal with visitors. 
The clearer the night, the better tbe view oftbe comet. 
Operations Board 
Business Manager. . ........ David Stephenitch Controller ........... . . Wilham J. H1ghducheck Advertising Manager . . .... J1mHagan Systems Manager ....... . .... Mark B. Johnson Production Manager .. John A. Mennetl 
Founded November3, 1966 


Accent 

50 years ago today: FDR visits Notre Dame 
SARAH HAMILTON order. As the president dismounted edttor.tn·cbtef the train, the Central and Riley high school bands struck up the national 
I 
t was a day to mark on your calen­anthem. dar, reported Scholastic. "For one An open touring car wis waiting day Indiana weather was right." The to carry the president up Michigan temperature vacillated in the mid Avenue at the head ofa 13-car forties and about 10 a.m. the clouds, flotilla to the University's entrance for which South Bend is famous, with a short stop at Leeper Park for cleared. Yes, it was a day to remem­a civil service. George Cardinal ber. Mundeleio. ofChicago had accom­
How fortunate to have good panied Roosevelt on the train but weather the day President Franklin had taken a separate motorcade to Roosevelt visited Notre Dame. Notre Dame before the president's. 

·~>i'~:.c..·.
The date was Dec. 9, 1935. Notre 

~··~~' 
Dame had declared it Philippine Day to commemorate 400 years of Catholicism in the Philippines and What had 
··~ in honor ofthe recent inauguration ofthat nation's first president. To started out as a celebrate the occasion, the United States' 32nd president visited Notre faculty Dame to receive an honorary doc­tor oflaws degree. convocation 
What had started out as a f:lculty convocation had grown into a city­had grown into wide celebration, the first official presidential visit to Notre Dame. To a city-wide catch a glimpse of Roosevelt, 25,000 South Bend school children celebration, and 100,000 other area residents assembled in Leeper Park and along the first official Michigan Avenue. Store owners hung red, white and blue bunting presidential and signs welcoming the New Deal president. In honor of his visit, the visit to Notre Grand Leader department store proclaimed Dec. 9 Roosevelt Day Dame.


r 
and slashed prices on blankets, hosiery, knickers and a whole lot more. Afternoon classes had been can­
Despite the excitement, life celed at Notre Dame in lieu of the didn't grind to a halt in South Bend 2:30 convocation. Anyone not that day. "Metropolitan," starring attending the event in the 

r Virginia Bruce and Laurence Tib­fieldhouse probably spent the time r bett, opened at the Palace Theater. before it warming up his radio. Not r As part of its r~gular pre-Inventory only was the local radio station, r sale, Gil-Bros. on S. Michigan WSBT, broadcasting the assembly, 
Avenue cut the price ofboth brown but so were the Columbia Broad­

F 
~ 
and black oxford shoes for women casting System and the National to S.89. But even news that loung­Broadcasting Company. Ing pajamas were S7.98 at El­
lworth's did not divert attention 
The fieldhouse was filled to from the main event on Michigan capacity. Underclassmen clamored Avenue. in the side bleachers, while distin­
Roosevelt's train arrived from guished guests such as Indiana's Chicago at Union Station about Governor Paul McNutt, Postmaster 
(c) Fr111klin D. Roosevelt library, Hyde Park, N.Y. 

1:50. He had spoken In the Second General James E. Farley, Governor City earlier that day to the Henry Horner ofIllinois and the entrance. University was inside the gym­casionally gets a lift. 
r 
r American Farm Bureau federation, consuls of Latvia and Costa Rica sat As the president's car drove nasium anticipating Roosevelt's After Roosevelt shook down assailing those who were trying to on the basketball court. After a around the campus, in front of arrival. some ofhis own thunder in the discredit the New Deal's recovery colorful academic procession in­Sacred Heart, past the Adminlstra·· The University Band was the first fieldhouse, the University Band 
program. At the station, no less than cluding the University faculty, tion Building, to the back ofthe group to officially welcome concluded the convocation in the 200 police officers, marines and graduate students and seniors, the fieldhouse, it must have seemed Roosevelt to the University of Our only way it knew how, with "The boy scouts were positioned to keep stage was set for Roosevelt's extraordinarily quiet, as most ofthe Lady by playing "Hail to the Chief' Notre Dame Victory March." 
and "The Star-Spangled Banner." That evening the whole nation Next, University President john could read about Roosevelt's visit O'Hara announced the purpose of to Notre Dame, as such newspapers 
that day's convocation. He broke and services as the Indianapolis 
from his scheduled speech, Star, St. Louis Post-Dispatch and the however, to greet the Notre Dame Hearst Metrotone News reported Club of Manila, the members of the event. International News which were listening to the broad­Photos Inc., Paramount Picture cast at 3 a.m. with Philippine Presi­News and Universal Pictures Cor­dent Quezon as their guest. poration also covered the event to 
Besides Roosevelt, Notre Dame include in upcoming news reels. 
also bestowed an honorary degree South Bend Tribune readers upon Carlos Romulo, a Filipino could read ofthe day's events for a statesman, journalist and educator. mere three cents. No doubt, the To honor Romulo and his country, banner headlines overshadowed the Moreau seminary choir then the other news ofthe day. The sung the Filipino national anthem, Supreme Court had refused to 
"No Mas Amor," in Spanish. review Bruno Hauptmann's convic­
In his speech, introduced by the tion ofkidnapping and murdering cardinal, Roosevelt hailed the the Lindbergh baby. Patrick Car­freedom ofthe Philippines and dinal Hayes of New York said in his acknowledged the need for human sermon at St. Patrick's Cathedral rights encouraged by religion. He that the birth control issue was 
said that religious and educational closed for Catholics. And Mrs. freedom are "supreme among the Helen Hunt West, leader of the rights ofman." He received such a movement by the national woman's standing ovation, as Scholastic party proposed a constitutional reported, that "it was only by his amendment giving women equal own signal that the din finally rights. subsided sufficiently to permit the As for Notre Dame, Dr. Fredrick program to continue." Kinsman probably was one of the 
The Observer/Paul Clf1JreiU As Roosevelt departed from the few on campus disappointed by the 


stage, he produced a pack of day's assembly. His 7:45 speech that
A plaque marks the site where the Notre Dame Fieldhouse used to be located. Exactly 50 years ago today, 

cigarettes. Immediately the crowd night in Washington Hall on Cal­
President Franklin D. Roosevelt received an honorary doctor oflaws degree during a special convocation held 

yelled, "Camels," thus indicating to vinism probably didn't draw quite
inside the jieldhouse. Roosevelt's visit to Notre Dame was the first ever by an American president. 

all present that the New Deal oc-as well as the president's. 

Monday, December 9, 1985-page 8-9 
ND law students help bring order to the 

court on campus 
financially eligible," said Wied­necessary. Clients are responsible mann. "We will explain ifthe client for coun costs. has no real claim. We have to cover According to Wilson and Wied­a large number ofcases with a mann, the free Legal Aid and limited number oflaw students," he Defender Program is popular added. among students with disputes with 
H 
their landlords,.especially during within income guidelines. Typi­According to Wiedmann and the first three or four weeks of KATHY MARTIN with county prosecutors, public cally, a prospective client calls the Wilson, perhaps one-fourth ofthe school. These disputes usually features staffwriter defenders and legal aid services in CIS office, receives some initial cases brought to on-campus divi­address problems like security and nearby communities. information, and the CIS office sions ofthe program reach court. damage deposits. ave you ever thought about Approximately 40 law students schedules an interview between the When a case does reach court, both The Legal Aid and Defender taking someone to court for are involved with the program this client and a law student. parties are contacted and the law Association is successful because it that broken stereo, missing case of year, half ofwhom work with Ifthe client meets the financial student represents his client in benefits both the law interns as well beer or favorite sweater which a Campus Legal Services, according guidelines, which are waived for court. Professor Thomas F. Broden, as the students, faculty and staffof good friend has "borrowed" wit­Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. The
to Harold Wilson, co-executive students, the law intern will a practicing attorney, supervises the hout telling you? Well, Notre director ofthe program, and Fred develop the client's case, usually court sessions. interns can develop their interview­
Dame's Legal Aid and Defender Wiedmann, co-director ofCampus contacting the opposing party to ing, negotiating and advocacy skills Association could be the strong arm Legal Services. Most positions are inform him ofthe case and to assess Only law students in their third with real clients and cases. The of the law you need. not paid, with the exception of both sides of the dispute. Cases year or more who are approved by clients gain free legal aid and an 
eight intern slots covered by a covered by the Domestic Violence the state and recommended by the awareness oftheir civil rights under 
In its 22nd year, the program federal grant in the Domestic Division are discussed with the dean ofthe Law School can appear the law. provides clinical education and Violence Division and those law division director or supervising in court, while second-year law So the next time your landlord, legal assistance to students, eligible students who qualify for federal attorney. All discussion between students go through case files to rector or roommate threatens to faculty and staff members, as well as work-study benefits. Most students the c.lient and law student is kept help prepare the case for coun. The see you in court, be aware that 
various communities in Indiana and participate for credit in a legal aid confidential. intern then performs investigations, Notre Dame's strong arm ofthe law Michigan. As an integral part ofthe course and may earn up w·four "We don't refuse prospective negotiations, drafting, and any other is listed in the directory under "Law Notre Dame Law School, the as­semester hours ofcredit over two clients who are students or are administrative or judicial advocacy School" 
sociation also provides an oppor­semesters. The requirement for tunity for law students to develop a each semester hour ofcredit is 60 sense ofethical responsibility hours of.field work, but the time through clinical and counroom commitment often exceeds this experience. minimum. 
The civil cases handled by the "Most volunteer their serviceslegal service usually are ofa more just for the experience," said Wil­serious nature, ranging from son and Wiedmann. "The law stu­disputes between landlords and dents can tell clients exactly whattenants to domestic violence. Only the law is on a particular pointthe county prosecutor's office can when they are confused. Thehandle criminal cases. 
program can advise both parties in a 


Christmas rhymes apt for times 
There are several divisions of the Legal Aid and Defender Association. The on-campus services consist of Campus Legal Services, the Domes­tic Violence Division, the Federal Courts Program, and Post­Conviction Remedies. Off-campus divisions give law students the additional experience ofworking on both civil and criminal cases 

Christmas ts magic
I don't know notbtn' 
Bestoftheyear

Krls Murphy Notbtn' atall 
Banishyour worries
FtniteMatb 

Bantsb yourfear
Is notmy call

Altered 
I'd rather sleep 

W 
elcome to the Holiday Season· at Notre Dame. Throw that snow! Buy those gifts! Do that party! Eat that food! Kick that reindeer! Sing those carols! Dance those dances! Write those cards! Study those finals! Gag on that eggnog! Spend all that money! See that family! Feel that cold! Read this poem! 
"ND Christmas" (Hoosier Noel) 
Merry Christmas Christmas cheer Gerry's gone Lou Holtz Is here 
SMCs and Domers Walk through snow Santa's coming HoHoHo 
Wttb snow In mysocks Snow In mypants When It melts I shoutand dance 
Orplay with snow 
'Cause It's white and cold But ob that wind! And really deep Shriek, shriek, blow Remembersun? 
!twas neat The wind Is loud Andcold as tee /bad a tan I wish I starred And real cool shades In Miami Vice Nowl'mcold My tan Itfades ButI shan't complain No, no.. notme· 
Doum tnMtamt I'm right bere where They're all really tan !want to be And It must be neat 
To bea 'Canesfan Right nearSouth Bend A jumptn'place Your team Is real good A hubbub of They're ranked numberfour The human race Butalso they're classless They ran up that score Where corn grows tall AndHoosiers cr~~wl And what ofGerry? 'Midst noxious clouds Wbataguy Ofethanol Allbe did Was try and try But it's Christmas now So I'll shut up
Santa ought 
Andstart to think
To treat him nice 'Bout elves and stuff
Andbring himjohnson's bead On tee 
I believe In elves Tbts Issue bugs me AndSanta, too 
As/cram Butflying reindeer Forfinals just won't do Dead? I probably am 
dispute oftheir rights under the law, and the parties usually come to an agreement themselves and negotiate out ofcourt." 
How does one go about obtaining this legal advice? The Campus Legal Services Divi­sion (CIS) deals with civil legal 

Notre Dame law students Lawrence Thomas (left) and Glenn Guanowsky (right) are two ofthe participants 
problems encountered by Notre 

in the Legal Aidand Defender Association program. The program offers legal aid to qualified clients. 
Gatheryourhope Gatheryourfriends The joy ofthe season Migbt neverend 

0 

r-
The Observer 

Monday, December 9, 1985 -page 10 


Sports Briefs 
The ND Rowing Club team picture for this year's Christmas card will be taken tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the Administra· tlon Buildifll-All vanity and novice rowers should attend. For more information call Patricia Worth at 283-2900. · T1H Observer 
Women's basketball fans who wish to play an active and visible role in the 1985-86 season should call Kevin at 239-7250 to be a part ofa progressive support group for th~ team.. 
TIHObsftrwr 
The N.Y. Giants moved back into a tie for first place with Da1Jas in the NFC East with a commanding 35·14 win over the Houston Oilers, wbile Dallaa was routed by the Cincinnati Bengals, 50-24. In other NFL action yesterday it was Kansas City 38, Atlanta 10; Washington 17, Philadelphia 12; New England 23, Detroit 6; Chicago 17, lndianapol.la 10; Miami 34 Green Bay 24; St. Louis 28, New Orleans 16; N.Y. Jets 27, BuJI'alo 7; L.A Raiders 17, Denver 14; Minnesota 26, Tampa Bay 7; Seattle 31, Cleveland 13; and San Diego 54, PittsbuCJh 44. Tbc L.A Rams visit San Francisco tonight. ·AP 
In the NBA last night, it was Washington I 11, Sacramento 89; Seattle 1OS, Philadelphia 100; San Antonio 121, Golden State 105; and L.A. Lakers 125, Dallas 119. -AP 
In the NHL last night, it was Buffalo 3, Boston 3; N.Y. Rangers 3, Philadelphia 1; Edmonton 4, Chicago 3; and Los Angeles 4, Winnipeg 1. -AP 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepte~ through Friday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the thiro ofLafortune. Brie& should be submitted on the forms available at the oflice, and every briefmust include the phone number ofthe person submitting it. -Tbe Observer 


Classifieds 

considered the most important play 
of the game. On Loyola's first trip 
down the floor after the timeout, he 
knocked the ball off Ramblers' guard 
Carl Golston as it was going out of 
bounds. 

That led to a Donald Royal three­
point play on the other end, and the 
Irish were offand running. 
"That's just a schoolyard play," said Dolan. "I guess I was just in the right place at the right time again." 
"Dolan's just has great instincts," said Phelps ofhis senior forward. "At times he can be very creative of­fensively and defensively. He made the big play, and Royal finally decided to play. Hicks and Price ( 5· 5 shooting on the day) also played very well." 
Sullivan agreed the Irish defensive 
changes contributed to his team's 
downfall 

"They went to the zone after the 
timeout," he said, "and we weren't 
ready for it. We fell apart for a little 
while and that's where we lost the 
game. It was a good tactical change." 
After the eight-point run, the Ramblers were never able to close the gap to less than seven points, and a parade to the foul line helped the Irish move the lead out to the final margin. 
Perhaps the biggest surprise ofthe game was the shooting of Loyola's Golston. The senior guard came into the game averaging 1 7 points per 
game, but he shot 2·1 5 from the field and finished with only six points. 
Rivers strarted the game guarding Golston, and Hicks and Price took turns helping out later. 
"I took it as a real challenge to be guarding Golston," said Rivers. "He is a very good guard. I was really concentrating out there, because I wanted to do well both on offense and defense. I wanted to do really well today, because I felt the Indiana 
game was a real embarrassment to the team." Phelps praised Rivers and the ot· hers for their efforts. 
"Rivers played excellent defense against Golston, as did the others when it was their turn," he said. "It was Dav~d's best defensive game so far." 
The Irish take on Oregon tonight in the ACC then take a break for finals before a Dec. 21 game against Valparaiso. 
"I can't walt to get finals over with and get the ldds back after Christmas break," said Phelps. "That's when the real fun begins." 
Non o.m. 71, L.oyoll58 Loyolll(58) p
M FG-A FT·A A F 
Klusendorf 11 G-1 o-o 1 1 0 
Brooks 29 4-5 o-o 7 5 8 
Moore 40 8-15 3-7 9 3 19 
Golston 39 2-15 2-2 1 3 6 
ca.rk 27 1-1 o-o 0 1 2 
Jackson 28 8-12 1-2 3 4 17 
Carter 1 o-o o-o 0 0 0 
Hayward 4 G-2 o-o 0 0 0 
Robireon 1 o-o o-o 1 1 0 
Cenar 9 1-2 Q-1 1 1 2 
Young 11 2-3 G-1 2 4 4 
200 2&-58 11-13 25 23 58 
FG Pet. -.464. FT Pet. -.462. Team rebounds • 2. Turnovers • 15. Assists • 14 (Golston 7). T echnicala • none. 
Non Dllme(711 M FG-A FT·A A F 
p Royal 26 3-4 7-9 1 2 13 Barlow 23 5-9 1-2 6 4 11 Kempton 11 G-1 o-o 1 2 0 Rivera 32 5-10 2·2 1 4 12 Stevenson 31 3-7 o-o 4 0 6 Hicks 20 3-5 6-6 6 2 12 Beeuwsaert 7 G-2 o-o 2 1 0 Smith 1 o-o o-o 0 0 0 Price 19 5-5 3-5 5 1 13 Dolan 19 G-2 o-o ·4 3 0 Voce 11 2-4 o-o 2 0 4 
200 2&-41 1.24 32 11 71 
FG Pet. -.531. FT Pet. -.792. Team rebounds -4. Turnovers • 18. Assists -15 (Rivers 9). Technicals ·none. 
Halftime • Notre Dame 42, Loyola 24. Offi­cials • Sam Liclditer, Mike Secrest, Randy Drury (all MAC). A· 11,345. 
Irish 
continued/rom page 16 

left in the contest, the Ramblers only 
trailed by three points, at 42-39. 

"I thought we played a terrible 
first half, but we played decently for 
the first 1 0 minutes of the second 
~" said Loyola head coach Gene 
Sullivan, a 1953 Notre Dame 
graduate. "I thought Notre Dame 
came out a little overconfident in 
the second half and allowed us to 
score several points in a row. 

··we were embarrassed a little bit today, but I thinkwe saved ourselves from being humiliated." 
Phelps also felt his Irish let down 
after the intermission. 

"In the first half, we did a good job with our intensity and defense,," he said "We battled them, and we were able to do what we wanted against them. We executed well offensively. 
"But we came out with no con­
centration in the second half. It hap· 
pened the other night against 
Indiana. They took it right to us. We 
didn't work on defense and we 
didn't work on the boards. And we 
weren't hitting our shots." 

In fact, the Irish would shoot only 
33 percent in the second half, but 
after the Ramblers' comeback they 
were able to slowly stretch the lead. 
Phelps called a timeout with 
13:1 7 left in the game, and Notre Dame quickly turned things around. Tile Irish went to a 3·2 matchup zone, which led to an eight-point spurt that pushed the lead back up to 49-39. 
"We went to the zone after the timeout," said Phelps. "I thought Oim) Dolan's experience would hdp in there. And we changed the offense, putting Stevenson on the baseline. I think that opened some things up." 
In fact, it was Dolan who, despite going scoreless, made what can be 
Tho• Ob.wrr•er :-.iutrt· Damt· otfkt·. lut·atnl on tht· thrrd fluor of l.a~orrunt· '-tudt·nt <.t·ntn. dllt'PI'tla,,ifkd adH'rl"tnKlrum ')am untrl 1 p m. \lundd\ throu(.lh l'rida\ Tbe Obst>rr·er Saint \tan·, utfitt·. 1m dtt·d on tht· thrrd floor of llaggar ColkJo:t' (.t'ntc:r. acn·pt' tla"ifkd' from 1.! .~0 p m untrl -~ p m. \ton­day though frrda\ lkadlrnc: for nt·xt-da\ da"rfit·d, b ~ p.m. All da,,ific:d' mu,t ht· prc:pard. t•rtht·r in pc:r,on or h\ mail ( .har~o:t:" I 0 n·nh per fin: ,-harac­tc:rs r da,· 
NOTICES  FOUND SAINT MARY'S RING-CAU. PASQUALE AT THE COMMONS TO IDENTJFY.  FOR RENT  80 HONDA CIVIC, 5-SPEED, VERY GOOD CONDITION, DEPENOABl.E. $2200.CALL 2689 AFTER 5.  OfiEA..TEAIIEM: Thanke for • 'JifMI ....-.r< The Dream Muter  ,..,ch out N.D.· here cornM HOT LIPS Farleyfl  Meureen  
LOST: IF YOU WERE AT ALUMNI'S  l'i~~-;~;;;i;;;;;ii;;;;;;~·;;;;·;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;  ONE WAY PLANE TICKET DEPARTING  
EXPERT TYPING 277-3534 AFTER 5:30  FORMAL NOV 23, YOU MAY HAVE MY COATI! MY FRIEND PICKED UP A WOMEN'S LONO BEIGE WOOL COAT WHICH LOOKS A LOT LIKE MINE. IF  277-31104 Pii;;·;;;,;;;;;:;~;;;;;;i·;,;;;;;i~·g;;;;;i·,;;ijh: borhOOd tor 3 • 255-3ell4.  O'HARE 7:51PM ON 12/20 CRASHING AT ISLIP MACARTHUR MUST SELL CHEAP-CHEAP 4()-611$ CALL DAWG 3718WOOF'  And /1'1 frue we .,. Immune when feet /1 liclion, r. v. ·t'NityAndtrxlllythe miiiDM cr; We Mlend drink wtl/le romorrow they die U2  DeUO GIIIPE NIGHT llrlorl*y, o-nMr. 4:411 to 1:41PM  
TYPING 277..o41  YOU HAVE A SIMILAR COAT WITH BROWM TRIM AND BROWN BUTIONS  .;;···;;;;;;··~;;;;;;~i;"'~;;;;d;;;j'";d'''Nii.  IDeAL r:H,.,BTMAB QIFT  Bouth Dtntna Hal  
F"U PICkUP I  OIIJYIJIY  PLEASE  CALL  284-5643  OR  5528.  I  Apte.. Only $107/month. For mono into.  flemlnndt Er~ c:.1enc1ar lot  PE"FI!CT  CH,.,BTMAB  QIFT  FOfl  
HAVE YOURS!  <*!Curt at 232·7547 or Shirley at N.D.  11111froln 8nl18  IIOIUOAO  

 IIILOST POCKET WATCH Ill 0111 From  Apia. &.....&ei>Root:~·····H·OM·i:liose· ..··:ro  auy et Dtnlna H8ll8 • cl,.... on Tuea., Oec.1CIII Wed., Dec II. BtudM!t 018count Pnce: SI.OO (Ia In­ 8ntl8'1 ............. EnglrpiMnt c.llnd8r lclr ,.. lltudM!t Pnce: n.oo(!a Included)  PITISBUROH  CLUB  • CHRISTMAS  
1'110-TYPI! • Over 11 ,.._ .-p. ~~~~ In ...,.,. ...,..., .... ....... ,.. ...,..., -­277­...  Utile lie lor -y MUCH Sentiment81 Vlllue. Cen't go home without lt. BOOZE and BUCKS REWARD Ill u.t ,_ Stepen.Pr-<*IBRIANAT288-M21 . FOUND: One bellt·up blue IOI)homore buli,_ mejor'e not.tlook. eom.;,. programe, Mle goele and neecll, and ec:hedulee. Ate you looking tor thie? Cal 1373. Before your Mle r•~­ CAMPUS.272-6306 cluded) ................................................................ Im ~~~~~~­J imm ~~~~~;~---j WANTED: An apat1ment lor two guya lor epr;ng -ter. wr• take either a two­peraon or a four-pereon place. Prefer NEED BUCKS FOR A CHRISTMAS  Pu..a-et otnlna H8ll8 81 cl..._ on Tuea., Dec.10 I Wed., Dec.I I. CHERE MARIANNE, Molly Duct< dit "Oulld<, Oulld<l" G,_bi_, u.. aUFFALO CLUa CHtaBTIIAI aua IB HI!Jtl!l$50 ROUNDTRIPISIGNUPS ARE MONDAY 6-8PM a WEDNESDAY 3:30­5:30PM LAFORTUNE  BREAK BUSES MEETING: LITTLE THEATRE, LaFORTUNE TUES. DEC tO AT 6:00PM LEAVE: CCE (NO) & HOLY CROSS (SMC) THURS. DEC. 19 AT 2:00PM a FRI. DEC. 20 AT 11:00 PM RETURN: GREYHOUND TERM. IN PITT. MON. JAN. 13 AT 1:00 PM COST: $55 ROUNDTRIP/ $40 ONE·WAY QUE~ TIONS: CALL A.J. Xt844  
LOST/FOUND  LOST: NOTRE DAME CLA88 RING ON PATH BETWEEN HURLEY AND ART BUILDING IN THE SNOW CALL SCOTI  Cen>pue VI-but wil take other. Cal Mlkeat3342. NEED one mele roommate lor next eemeeter. Turtle Qoeek. Cal277·2116.  PRESENT FOR MY BABY SISTER. BUY MY BASKE11"BALL SEASON TIXIIIIII CALL TONY 1028  NINE????????? Gorng to or thru Atlan18 Aeheville or Knox·  ANN, THE BIG FISH IN THE LITTLE POND IS ALWAYS THE FIRST TO FRY ..UIIFdT '15-aE THI!Jtl!ll  
FOUND: A woolen arp on the .-elkin front of the No4re o.me P<* Ollloe. May be claimed In Room &-11 Fttz.-.a< or by .,.ng 231H1381. LoeT: A peir ol reddlal>-lrwned women·• ~n a CfMm COlored ~­II found, P'-<*I 4ta. 'TNnlla.  4075 REWARD OFFERED LOST: HELPIIIoet my~ and now I C811't -­They h.ve gold. ..,_. "­and llighlly tinted *-· The gleeMe -elna eolt, dark brown~-II you find them, pr-<*I Joe at 3404. ~­ ................................................................ $JCl8S$,.1088$J08S EARN GREAT MONEY. LOTS OF BENEFITS. CALL 8MC ALUMNAE, PARENTS, AND FRIENDS IN AN EXCITING FUNDRAI~ lNG PROJECT. CALL MARTHA OR PAT IMMEDIATELY TO SIGN UP FOR THE TRAINING SESSION ON DECEMBER 11 FROM 6-10. HURRY • TIME IS OF  I badly need :J UCLA bql<etbell tict<eta. Contact JuWe l!77-()117 PE~~SONALS  vile tor x-mu?l need a ride late Dec 20 or on 21.WII help pay.Dan 3250 0.. Mr Slllillaction: Thenu for the oller but our PPA hu lllr-.c!y far exceeded a 3.8. II )'OU would Mke eome r-on.. we .,. available but the dee:ilion Ia In your hMtdl. While we're at It, we could 8leo IIIIlCh you eome TP lki..IO thai on March  •uaTMCv GRANDMA a GRANDPA MURPHY CONGIIATUL.ATIONBI LOVE, UNCLE JOE Dear Bob,  
·,q  the  - tor lollng  thlllfl8 ..  ································································ LOST MISSING LOST MISSING LOST  THE ESSENCE!' 5351.  OUR  NUMBER  IS  "'Wi.'Y;;i';;;:;~~~·-;i;;g·;·;;;;;jj;;··;;  31,11168, you'lber-.clyforTrlld<211. We love Ul The Gin w/ Seneuoue H..-.ct. a  Thankll lor the tun time S.turdlly night. but remember:  
THERE ARE TWO THIN08 I HAVE LOST RECENTLY THAT ARE CIIUCIAL  Red Folder mlaing from South Dining Hal  N'RO"FiiDE To Nci·NJ-Cl'EC'20'JAN.ET  --. e.lhmely /nleiWgent? How woold IWIIvelf ,... were lp/rltu ....advanced?  The Ledy in Red.  Nev• a~ck green l .....lyforehHd.  crepe  paper  ro  a  
FOR MY SURVIVAL ON THIS CAMPUS  284-4346  HUNGRY? c.tl YELLOW SUBMARINE  Love, Sue  
AT THIS TIME OF YEAR:  I. AN NO  ................................................................  • Rlclwd Bach,  at 272-HIKE.  Delivery Houre: Monday·  
CMOIT  UNION  AUTO..TB.UJI  FOUND  FOUND  FOUND  FOUND  Tile llrldaa--F- Thursday 5pm-12am; Friday 5pm-2am;  
IIIACHINa CAN). You know you oerl't get 11101'18)' out ol myaccc<mt beCalM you  FOUND FOUND FOUND GOLD LADIES QUARTZ WATCH BETWEEN WALSH  FOR SALE  OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER a LIQUOR.  S.turdlly 3pm-1am; Sunday 4pm-1 Opm  BOPHOIIORE CLAaB CH"'BTIIAI PAIITY  
dcn't h.ve the oec:ret ..,._no. I do, and  AND HAYE~HEALY CALL DAN AT  CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N.. 1  ODE TO LEG  THURSDAY, DEC.12  
I need th81 card! 2. AN LL tHAN  2555  BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  (I mean Peg)  9:00  
QLOYI, LafT HAND. 11'1 n.vy on the beck, clrty '18Y on the front, IIWrt blue Mnlng. T..pity on my lreezrng left h8ndl  ··························· LoeT: . QIJitEitOUB "EWMO OF FOUND  TOYOTA CELICA 75, RUNS VERY GOOD. SOME RUST, $400 OR BEST OFFER. CALL IGNACIO 277-D603.  Ellfn SSS for eM thoee booke you didn't reed!! PANDORA'S wil buy your ulled  It mult be an ART to walk that ...y... or 10 I have ha.d, and now that I underatllnd "the game"  LAFORTUNE BALLROOM!  
IF FOUND, PUAR RETURN TO PAULA MIRANDA.(I'M IN THE DIREC· TORY ) THANKS SO MUCH IIIII  Dtllllnatlve tNY/wlltte pMtemed ·--~ loet llnl -...... olNov...... PleMe -­T­et 28...uaot ,...,........... ~  ................................................ Go X Mae lhopplng thru Amwrty Sanl8 • coming I ...perfume ater-~diet drinke ccemetice 10 epeed bikM money  booke M-F 11-4. or we can help you lind a ulledbool<loractau. We're open M·F 11· 6, SAT a SUN 10.5. PANDORA'S i1 op­poeite CORBY'S al937 South Bend Ave.  I gu-that "~1'1" the word. Sweet nineteen and never been ...what? We all know thie can't be true For "action" ie your middle ,.,.  HAPPY BIRTHDAY MARY J0 MCHUGH HOPE ALL YOUR WISHES COME TRUE ESPECIALLY THE ONE ABOUT YOU KNOW WHOI! LUV AMY & KATHY  
LOST: ~80Cidently picked up my tong, l8n (-).wool 00811rorn the COlli  eua.  beckgu..ntee call Man ~tAM ext 7193 234·2000  SENIORS! HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES  And thoee una-• ol thi1 filet are an UNCHOSEN FEW!!  HAPPY 8-0AY ANNE FARREL!One ol  
room at the Lyone-Farley-Aium.-. Form81. II you noticed you got me wrong one. P'-cal Mo: X3023, X21811. Of X299tl. LoeT: CAl.CULATOfl IN IILACII POUCH AT IIORTll DINNO HALl. IIIIONOAY, OI!C.2. IF FOUND, PUABE CAU.I12i. I NUO IT FOfl FINAU.  WOULD THE YOUNG MAN WHO BORROWED THE SPANISH BROCHURES FROM THE MODERN LANGUAGES OFFICE BEFORE THANKSGIVING PLEASE RETURN THEM IMMEDIATELY. WE NEED THEM!  DEPENDABLE TRANSPORTATION 1978 CHEVETTE, $1400.272-8827. ................................................. BLAUPUNKT CAR STEREO, POWER BOOSTER, EQUALIZER, 4 SPEAKERS. GREAT PACKAGE DEAL. CALL 1 EVENINGS, 28~4342.  Work u a volunt-ln eeveral U.S. dti.,.. Application: Mary Ann Roemer, 7949. D.C. X-IlM aua Sign-upe Mon. 12/9 2nd Floor LaFortune, 7-8pm $68 Rd. Trip ?'1 call Kevin Viroetek at 1062 THANK YOU ST. JUDE,  Though everdear'a ~ke ,..,er to you I'd never have the galt, 8ut I'm SO Exidted to give you thia gilt For a belated birthdey wtlh il bener than none at al. Lovelrom your roomie, (A.P .K. to cioN friende)  the blggeat geel<a we know.who happene to be the $.25 champ ot N.D.aSMC' We loveyou!414 HAPPY BIRTHDAY STEPHI BIG191! Too bad you're not back in Iowa-Love, Sue, Fwa, Gidge and Mere  

.-------------~­
The Observer 
Ducks 
continuedfrompage 16 
time when we really needed it. Now, the roles are reversed, they've made the long trip. I'm sure they'll be excited coming in here to Notre sophomores, they play like seniors. They have great confidence and they play hard. Both of them have been Oregon's main offensive threats in the early going this year. That'll be a great challenge for David (Rivers) and Scotty (Hicks), to show what they can do defensively against some pretty good guards." 

The 3-1 Irish have a good chance to land win number four, as long as they can put together a few timely spurts behind Rivers, capture the momentum, avoid embarrassing shootil[lg slumps (such as the one to start the· second half with Loyola), and avoid costly turovers and mistakes. 
Once again Phelps will look to Rivers and Ken Barlow to shine. Also in key roles for the Irish will be Donald Royal, a regular crowd­pleaser with the always inspirational dunk, and freshman Mark Stevenson, who played a solid game against Loyola over the weekend in his first starting assignment. 

Monday, December 9, 1985 -page 11 

with NuVision's Double Up Deal! BUY 1st PAIR GET 2nd FRAME AND TINT FREE! 

Now you can get the eyewear bargain of the century. . . Buy one pair of quality NuVision eyeglasses or contacts and get a second frame absolutely free with the purchase of prescription lenses. Choose your second frame from a large selection and get a free solid, fashion or sunglass tint when you buy your second pair of lenses! Plus, save on extended wear, tinted or daily wear contacts. 
'ft'emendous Values on Contact Lenses! 
Extended 
$74

Wear 
Dally 
$49

Softmate E.W. 
Wear Soft 
Contact lens price does not Include eye exam or care kit. · 


Offer good at participating offiCes only. Glasses must be ordered at timB of, or prior to, delivery of your first pair. Eye examination IMiilable by independent licensed optometrist. Offer not valid witf1 prior orders. Not valid tor state and federally funded programs 
LaSalle Square 234·3123 McKinley Town &Country 256-1864 Plymouth Center-Plymouth 936-5012 University Park Mall 277·8682 Elkhart Mall-Elkhart 295-2496 1012 Main St.-Niles 684·8008 
Hockey 
continuedfrompage 16 
co-captain Dave Waldbillig tied the score on assists from Rich Sobilo and Roy Bemiss at 18:49. 
Sobilo teamed with Bemiss and 
Hanzel for the ~tame winner at 13:03 

contest at tbe Boston Garden. Tbe Bruins skated to a 3-3 tte with the Buffalo Sabres tn last night'sNHL 
action. 

of the final period when when he stuck Hanzel's rebounded shot past Charger goaltender Chris Parsons. Chapman added an empty-net goal for insurance with 3 7 seconds left in the game. Smith was happy with the win, but less satisfied with his squad's play. 
"I don't mean to be negative," commented Smith, "but we didn't 
An independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting ap­plications for the following position: 
• Viewpoint Copy Editor 
This paid position requires editing View­point commentaries one afternoon per week. Letters of application should be sub­mitted to Phil ~'olf in the Observer office 
by 5 p.m. Wednesday, Dec. 11. 
For more information, call The Observer at 239-5313 
AdventPenanceService 
Wednesday, Dec. 11, to p.m. Sacred Heart Church 
Opportunity for individual confession after the! prayer service. 


Santa Claus is corning to town 
(Do hi• a favor aad 
....hla.talll) 
~~~ 'MN· HAWAfAN 
I) ~ sun tonnr-g ~tn 
J.M.S. PLAZA 
latro Pkg. Spec. 4609 Grape Road $21.95 Mishawaka 
play our best tonight. It's nice to win when we don't play as well, but we were lax in coming out of our zone, in our passing and in our defensive coverage. I'd like to think that tomorrow we'll play more consis­tently and do better." 
For the first period and a half, the Irish looked like they would make their coach a prophet. The Irish built what appeared to be a commanding 8-0 lead before withstanding a Charger rally to win, 10-7. The 1 7 total goals were the most in one game since the Irish beat Western Michigan, 10-8, in February, 1982. 
John Nickodemus, Sobilo and Waldbillig each scored twice for the Irish. Bob Bilton added a goal and two assists, and Lance Patten chipped in three assists for his first points of the season. Mike Finn led the Chargers with a hat trick, and O'Connor scored had a pair of goals and assists. 
Despite seeing the 8-goal lead evaporate, Coach Smith was pleased with Saturday's performance. 
"When you get a lead like that," noted Smith, "the tendency Is to start thinking about scoring and for­get about coming back to play defense. Our defensemen stood up when they shouldn't have, and our forwards got in too tight and couldn't get back in time. With that lead, you stan getting lackadaisical and make silly mistakes. 
"I was very pleased with the play we got from Nickodemus and (late fill-In Bob) Herber," Smith con­tinued. "They both gave us a shot In the arm. Overall, our passing was 110 percent better tonight. We did a much better job getting the puck out of our ice. They weren't able to control us inside our own zone." 
After two weeks off for finals, the Irish travel to upstate New York where they will compete in the Syracuse Invitational on the 27th and 28th of December and play two with SUNY-Plattsburgh on the 30th and 31st. The next home date Is January 17 for the first oftwo games with Michigan-Dearborn. 
_IISOC:.co'sHair Styling 
Phone 233-4957 

Thanks. to you... • 
It works ... 
for All OF US una.~-.,


---~-------------~--­
The Observer Monday, December 9, 1985 -page 12 
One of four possibilities 

Faust considering Youngstown St. 
YOUNGSTOWN, Ohio · Former Notre Dame football coach Gerry Faust !la.id Youngstown State Univer­sity Is one of four schools he Is con­sidering for his next coaching job, according to a school official. 
University Athletic Director Joe Malmlsur told the Younptown Vin-I dlcator In an Interview published yesterday that Faust was lmpre118Cd with the school's athletic facilities and Its potential as a winning foot­ball team. 
Faust ftew from South Bend, and met with Malmlsur for several hours at the campus Saturday. 
Faust did not say what Youngstown would have to offer him to accept the job and the job was not offered, Malmlsur told the Vindicator. 
Younptown State Is one of four schools Faust was seriousiy con­sidering, Malmlsur told the newspaper. 
Faust resigned about two weeks ~o after five years as head coach of the Irish. His teams went 30·26-1. 
Youngstown State competes In Division 1-AA and hopes to move up to Division I. 
Women 
continued/rom page 16 
gest they've ever been an<J with the most talent they've ever had. Their oniy weakness Is that they do not have a lot of experience, but they can beat anyone on any given night. 
"When you talk about Tennessee, you're talking about a team with tradition, a team that's always there. You know what kind ofgame they're going to give you because you know the kind of game they always give you-a tough one." 
If history is any Indicator, Notre Dame could have its hands full. The Volunteers downed the Irish, 62-57, at Tenneii8Ce In last season's opening game, and hold a 2-0 lead in the series. DIStanislao expects to tangle with a well-balanced team tonight, but remains confident In her troops' chances ro raise their 2-1 record with a victory. 
"To beat them," she says, "we're 
going to have to pby better than we 
have before. We're going to have to 
take care of our share of the 
rebounds, take good shots and take 
care ofthe ball." 
In addition, even more weight moves onto the shoulders of senior co-captains Trena Keys and Lynn Eb­ben to lead the team In tonight's game, especially since the lack of depth In the middle will force the Irish offense outside. The 6-2 Bot· ham will have to pick up the slack on the boards since Willis might not be able to contribute her strong rebounding skills to the Notre Dame cause. 
ALLIED SHIPPING 
Air& UPS 
219-277-7616 
We pack and Ship 
HOURS: 1 -7 Mon -Frl 10 a.m.-4 Sat 
UNIVERSITY COMMONS SR23 
Join Us 
Tbe Observer ts always looking for new talent. If you are interested tn newspaper writing or newspaper produc· tton, stop up at Tbe Observer office on tbe 3rd floor of LaFortune. 
Youngstown State Coach Bill Nar­duzzl was fired this fall after 11 years as head coach. The team was 5-6 this year. 
Malmlsur said Faust was impressed with the new Stambaugh Stadium, which seats 16,000 and In­cludes training facilities. Faust called 

Gerry Faust 
the Youngstown area "the greatest recruiting area in the country," Mal­misur told the Vindicator. 
Faust has been mentioned as a candidate for head coaching jobs at Memphis State and Mississippi State. 
He !la.id at the time of his resigna­tion Nov. 26 that he expected to 
.......~..........................~~~~~~ 

~~~~ 'IBII LET US SHOW YOU<'/~~:~
.A!!;:r-~THE "FUN WAY" TO :.:'"~~c..;-A BEAUTIFUL 
rr=:=~::==:::::::~E~A~L~THY TAN! Best Student Priclnq 
3 Bed VIsits •.••.. 3 Booth VIsits ..•. $15.00 
$26.00 $16.00 
.... $40.00 7 Booth visits. 
Extra Lo~ Prices Now 
FONTAN DOES IT AGAIN~ 
Special extended for 10more ays 
BUYALLOFYOUR 
TAiflfllfO lfOW 
No expiration on tanning visits 
STOP IN TODAY AND SEE USI OR CALL US AT 219/272·7653 
Located w..t ol Unlvelllty Park on Stole ROOd 23 

• E12 Medium PIZZA (anytopping)J! with extra cheese : 
i• PLUS ! 
! Garlic Bread with cheese i 
: Delivery Orders Only ; 
(plu. delivery and tax) 

: • • $5.25 • .·.·. • 
=. 

' • :••
• • 

: 52921 u.a.31 fiiDith : 
. •• • -------. • • : 277-5810 : 
! GoodforSundayaandMondays ! ; only wftla coupon : 
have a major college head coaching job within two weeks. 
"We were delighted by his visit," Malmisur said. "He seemed very comfortable. The fact that Gerry Faust took the time to come here to talk about our {ootball coaching job gave our program a shot in the arm." 
Faust could not be reached by The Associated Press on Sunday. 
Faust pointed out that Notre Dame has a strong alumni group in the Youngstown area and spoke glowingly of the Edward J. DeBar­tolo family. DeBartolo is a major shopping mall developer. His son, Edward J. DeBartolo Jr., owns the San Francisco 49ers of the National Football League. 
Malmisur said the job cannot be offered until a deadline ends for ad­vertising the post under allirmative action guidelines. 
Other coaches expected to be in­terviewed for the Youngstown post include Bob Commings, a former 
· University of Iowa coach and a Youngstown native now coaching at Canton Glen Oak High School, and Booker Brooks, a former aide to CoachJoe Paterno at Penn State. 
1bc Oborrvcr/Hannn Hockrr

We're number one? 
New bead football coacb Lou Holtz mDkes a point to tbe Notre Dame student body Saturday afternoon in tbe ACC. Holtz received a rousing ovation wben be was introduced to tbe Irlsb fans at balftt'!'e oftbe Notre Dame-Loyola basketballgame. 
on Tuesday, December 10, 1985 from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of Morris Inn 
I l
I 
Winery Management representatives will present a brief review of the wine industry and discuss career opportunities in this dynamic growth industry of the '80's. 
I I 
Questions are welcomed, refreshments will be served 

2vomt-n~13asktbal 
ND vs Tennessee 
December 9 at 4:00 In the Main Arena A.C.C. Come watch the women take on a nationalpowerhouse! 


The Observer Monday, December 9, 1985 -page 13 
Seniors came through vs. Ramblers 
Price,! Dolan proved their worth 

ByNICK SCHRANTZ 
Sports Writer 
It was a couple ofveteran reserves 
-Joseph Price and Jim Dolan -who 
keyed Notre Dame's up-and-down 
victory over Loyola Saturday. One 
did it by leading the team in scoring, 
the other without even scoring a 
point. 
These two seniors have each staned many games for the Irish during their first three years, but so far this season their roles have in­volved coming off the bench. And while they both have struggled somewhat this Y4~ar. thc:'y each rebounded from poor performances in the loss to Indiana to provide the needed defense and experience to hold back the Loyola comeback ef­fon. 
Price poured in 13 points to tie for the team lead with Donald Royal. His nine points in the first half, including seven in the last three minutes, helped the Irish build an 18-point lead going into the halftime inter­mission. With five minutes to play in the second half he canned two straight jumpers to help the Irish keep a nine-point lead. 
Dolan, on the other hand, did not put-the ball in the hoop, but still provided the spark that woke up the Irish in the second half. He had four rebounds, two steals, and a blocked shot, but more imponantly he guided the team's zone defense that slowed down the Loyola cha~rge and 

Seniorforwardjosepb Price, sbown bere taking a sbot in Satur­day's win overLoyola, joined witb classmatejim Dolan to give tbe lrlsb some mucb-needed experience against tbe Ramblers. Nick Schrantz bas more on tbe contributions ofPrice and Dolan in bts story at rlgbt. 
FREl:  i I  
~tow Oi)  I  
.  Jl  ht,:a~uL  I  
r  , ·•• if needed)  I I 

T!..t.; HAIRSTYLIST 
I
272-0009 
I I 

~--------------· 
Hours 

Mon.-Fri. 
8 a.m.-8:30p.m. Saturday 8a.m.-7:30 p.m. Sunday 10 a.m.-4 p.m. 
turned the game around. 
With 12 minutes to play Loyola had cut the Irish halftime lead to three by scoring 15 straight points and holding Notre Dame scoreless on 0-8 shooting. Irish head coach Digger Phelps called a timeout at 
Grand Openin~! The Hairstylist 
University Center-6502 Grape Rd. (near Service Merchandise-next to Macri's Deli) 
PHONE 272-0009 NO APPOINTMENT NECESSARY 
Precision Haircut with Shampoo ............. $8.50 
GAL' H . t h . I d d $6
s a1rcu s ampoo me u e ............. . 
with you in mind 
GUY's Haircut shampoo included .............. $6 

·~------------------~ personally designed for you 
GUYS AND GALS PERMS ARE OUR SPECIALTY.. 
Prices range from $17.50 to $40 All perms included haircut and blow dry· styling Highlighting Clairol Tints Retouch Bleach Retouch $15.50 $12.50 $19.50 

-that point and insened Dolan to spearhead the new zone defense. 1be 6-8 senior made his presence felt Immediately. 
The Ramblers had the ball and were looking to cut the deficit to one point. Then Royal tipped away a Loyola pass inside and Dolan leaped to the ball in time to throw it off the leg ofLoyola's Carl Golston in a typi­cal playground manuever. The crowd went crazy, and the fired-up Irish promptly took the ball downcoun and Royal convened a three-point play to end the scoring drouaht. 

Jim Dolan 

Phelps didn't give up on his two veterans, and was very satisfied with the way they responded during the Loyola comeback. 
"I was disappointed with the seniors in Bloomington," Phelps said, "but I was pleased with their performance today. 
"We went to a zone defense and also changedouroffense(during the time out). We were able to swing the ball to the weakside to Price and those two baskets were what broke the game open. 
"We thought Dolan's experience in the zone would neutralize their offense, and he was the key defensively for us." 
In coming off the bench both seniors have seen less playing time and, at moments, have performed at a level less than expected. 
Dolan played 19 minutes in the game, including 15 in the crucial second half, -which was far more than the 11 he had been averaging before the contest. In the previous three games he averaged only one point and two rebounds, including a six-minute, no-point, no-rebound performance against Indiana. 
Price also saw 19 minutes of ac­tion against the Ramblers, which was slightly higher than the 16 he had been averaging. His 13 points far exceeded his average of 5.3, which Included a poor 17-minute, four­point game against the Hoosiers. 
Phelps said after the game he had 
never lost confidence in his seniors, 
and added that every play.er is not 
going to have a great game each 
time. Dolan and Price responded to 
Phelps' show of confidence by 
playing intelligent games and doing 
things that often go unnoticed by 
the Cans. 
Price provided the team with con­sistent outside shooting, as he con­vened on all five of his attmepts. In addition, he grabbed five rebounds and helped lead the Irish defense that held the Ramblers to 58 points, 15 below their season average. 
Dolan's line in the box score wasn't very impressive, but he was always in the right place to make a key play. His save offofGolston's leg lifted the team and Cans, while two of his rebounds came late in the game as the Irish stretched their vul­nerable nine-point lead to 13 by the end ofthe game. 
Phelps commented after the game that these two players, especlally Dolan, play the type ofgame that of­ten goes unrecognized 
"Dolan doesn't always do the things that show up in the boxscore, but if intelligence were in the box score he'd be leading the country," Phelps explained. "He's very intel­ligent from basket to basket. He runs our defense, and is always talking and calling out the slides." 
Dolan and Price, along with Ken Barlow and Tim Kempton, provide the young Irish team with needed experience and players who can come off the bench and get right into the game. 
"On the bench you just have to be 
aware of what's going on and who 
you'll be playing against," Dolan ex­
plained. "You have to watch so 
when you go in you'll know how to 
stop them. It helps becauac coming 
off the bench you can see what 
works and what hasn't." 

ntal Express Restaurant 
Chinese, Vietnamese & American Food Dining Room and Carry Out
...., 
6329 University Commons 
~ ~\8 

Just West ofUniversity Park Mall on State Road23, Next to Kroger 
~ 

Mon. & Weds.10"f.Off withdiningroomcoupononly 
·········~··················· 

BANKING... ONCAMPUSATSMNTMARVS 
1st Source Bank's office, located at Saint Mary's CoHege in Haggar College Center, offers &ee checking to Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students and faculty. 
In addition, this office brings you the convenience of 24 Ju..banking locations to serve you! 
Banking Hours· Monday through Friday 
Mon. thru Thurs. -11:30 a.m.-3:30p.m. 
Friday -11:00 a.m.-4:00p.m. ~ source 
..:aank
Join Michiana's 1stTeam 
for unsurpa~sed banking service! Member F.D.I.C. 

Pittsburgh Club 
Christmas Break Bus 
Meeting: Little Theatre, LaFortune Tuesday, Dec. 10 at 6 p.m. 
LEAVE: CCE (ND) and Holy Cross (SMC) Thursday, Dec. 19 at 2 p.m. Friday, Dec. 20 at 11 p.m. 
RETURN: Greyhound terminal P .H• Monday, Jan. 13 at 1 p.m. 
Cost: $55 Roundtrip -$40 one way 
The Observer Monday, December 9, 1985-page 14 
settles for split in triangular meet 
By KATHLEEN McKERNAN 
Sports Writ.,­
The Notre Dame women's swim team opened its season this weekend with a second place finish In the Notre Dame Invitational Relays Friday, and earned a split in the triangular meet with Cleveland State and Ball State yesterday. 
Saint Mary's also competed in the Notre Dame Relays Friday, finishing seventh with a total of 36 points. 
While the Irish dominated over 
Cleveland State, 82·37, they lost a 
close contest to Ball State, 71-69. 
"You tend to pay more attention 
to the meet that's close," Irish head 
coach Tim Welsh said, speaking of 
the two-point loss to Ball State. 
Notre Dame did, however, even its 
record at 1-1 at the Rolfs Aquatic 
Center yesterday. 
"We had a lot of f2st swims," Welsh noted, "and the makinS' of a real good team." 
Sophomore Amy Darlington had an especially successful day yester­day. She won the 200-yard freestyle with a time of 1:59.75 and the tOO­yard, with a time of 55.43 seconds. 


By PETE GEGEN 
Sports Writ.,­
The Notre Dame men's swim 
team opened its season with a 
weekend ofcompetition at the Rolfil 
Aquatic Center. On Friday the Irish 
placed second in the 21st annual 
Notre Dame Invitational Relays, and 
on Sunday they dropped a meet to 
Cleveland State. 
To celebrate the inaugral meet at 
Rolfs, swim team alumni from across 
the nation attended the meet. The 
hype, combined with the enthusias­
tic swimmers, resulted in a strong 
showing by the Irish. 
"II was a very exciting opening 
meet," said Head Coach Tim Welsh. 
"The team really swam well." 
With the adrenaline flowing, the Irish 200-yard freestyle relay team of john Koselka, Dennis Petrillo, john Froman, and Mark Jensen won the opening event. Then the team of Eric Bohdan·, john Coffey, Rogelio Miro, and Mike Roberts took the 200.yard butterfly. 
In the next event, Blaise Harding, Bill Schmitz, Chris Green, and Jim Dowd won the 800-yard freestyle relay. At this point, the Irish had built a 16-point lead. 
However, in the following race, Notre Dame was disqualified in the 200-yard butterfly relay for jumping the gun. 
"We made one key mistake, the disqualification," said Welsh. "But I would rather have it now than at the end ofthe season." 
Wisconsin-Milwaukee took the lead with two relays remaining. At this point it was clearly a two-team battle. 
In New 'tbt\ SC. 5CMIIry H .._., EduUCIOI\iil Ctnftf Lid 
TEST PIIEPIUWlON SI'(CW.ISTS SH:E S38 
CALL DAYS. EVENINGS & WEEKENDS 
171 l E Soul'l Bend Ave South Bend. tnd,ana '•6637 272·4135 
She came in second overall in the 500-yard freestyle, swimming the event in 5:27.23. 
Darlington also anchored Notre Dame's come-from-behind win in the 800-yard freestyle relay. 
"Her performances were cer­tainly noteworthy," Welsh said of Darlington's swims. 
Co-captain Venette Cochiolo, who swam in Notre Dame's first­place finish in the meet's opening 200-yard medley relay, also con­tributed "some key points," accord­Ing to Welsh. 
In addition, Cochiolo won the 100-yard butterfly ( 1:11.36) and came in second in the 200-yard 
(2:33.47) with what Welsh called some "excellent times for the first meet." 
Freshman sprinter Tracy johnson also swam well yesterday. In the 50­yard freestyle event, she came in second to Ball State's Angie Pearson by only two one-hundredths of a second. 
Friday afternoon, the Irish came in second to Wisconsin-Milwaukee at the Notre Dame Relays. After nine 

events, both teams had 122 points, 
so the contest came down to the 
final 400-yard freestyle relay. 

"It made the meet extremely ex­
citing," Coach Welsh said with 
amazing objectivity of the meet's 
closeness. 

To win the meet, the Irish team of Anne Costello, Jean Browne, Bar­bara Byrne, and Amy Darlington had to win that final event. Wisconsin, however, pulled ahead to defeat Notre Dame by less that a second, 
3:50.71 to 3:51.44ln that event and in the entire meet, 140-136. 
One important aspect of the relay for the future of the team lies in the fact that all the swimmers who practice with the team were able to get a chance in the water during the meet. "We spread people around," Welsh explained. 
That opportunity for some ex­perimentation should help the Irish later in the season in preparing for other competition. 
lbis Thursday, Notre Dame travels to Bowling Green for its first of six road meets before the end-of­year tournaments. 
Men's team enjoys exciting opener 
In the first of the final two events, the team ofCoffey, Bernard Niehaus, jensen, and Koselka recaptured the lead for Notre Dame by winning the 200-yard medley relay. But Wisconsin-Milwaukee finished second, cutting the lead to only two points. 
But in the final race, Wisconsin­Milwaukee won the 400-yard freestyle relay with relative ease, to give the Panthers a final score af 
122. Notre Dame placed fourth In this race, and finished with a score of 

116. 

Yesterday Notre Dame hosted a strong Cleveland State team. The final score was Cleveland State 68. 5, Notre Dame 46. 5. 
"Based upon last year's returning swimmers and their overall strength, we really didn't expect beat them," noted Welsh. 
The next meet for the team is Thursday at Bowling Green. 

CLqRKTELE 


COf\llMUNICATIONS, INC. 
7!% lESS  7!% LESS  7t% LESS  
THAN AT&T'o  IHAPII Al&f'o  THAN AT&T'o  
DAYTIME RATES  EVENING RATES  NIGHTTIME RATES  

LESS COST · Clark Telecommunication rates are 7112 o/o below AT&T rates all the lime. 7'1>% below daytime, evening and nighttime rates. 
LESS HASSLE · Because Clark item,zes your billing for each indiwaual. there is no more figuring out your roommate's calls. 
LESS NOISE · Clark long distance is clear, quality communications. No more strange interference, funny noises, dead air, or low volume with Clark. 
LESS RUNAROUND· Because Clark was ch~sen by the Administration of the University of Notre Dame to handle long distance service for students, we have an on-campus service representative to answer questions and respond to problems right away. 

your voice counts . . . 
Cal/ today to start saving on all your long distance services, or see our ON-CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVE In room G91 in the Memorial Library. 283-4150 
e CIAAKTELE 
~ COtv1MUNICATIONS, INC 
211 West Washington Suite 1700 South Bend, IN 46601 

Sophomore David Dietzgets offto a flying start In tbe 400-yard freestyle relay In Friday's Notre Dame Relays tn tbe Rolfs Aquatic Center. Pete Gegen bas details on tbe men's team's performance at lower left, and Kathleen McKernan recaps tbe women's results at upper left. 
~ MafCh of Dimes 
~ --BIRTH DEFECTS FOUNDATIONIIIilliilllil 
CONTACT LENSES 
Clear Daily Wear Spherical 
$39.98* 
Contact Lenses. 

EXTENDED WEAR CONTACT LENSES 
Soltmate 30-day extended wear spherical contact lenses 
SOFT TINTED CONTACT LENSES 
Natural Tint oontact lenses that not only oorrect your vision, they make your eyes viblant and excning. Available in blue, turquoise, emerald green and brown. 
$.39.98* 
$79.98* 

"Price does not Include an eye examination which Is required at the time of purchase. 
Visa-MasterCard-Medicaid-Insurance Programs Welcome Open 6 Days A Week With Evening Hours 
SOUTH BEND: 1111 E IRELAND RD ... 2914000 MISHAWAKA: 506 W McKINLEY 
Also Offices in Indianapolis, ShelbyviRe, Kokomo, Lalay·ette, Anderson, Terre Haute,Richmond, Bloomington, New castle, Franklin, Muncie, Marion 

~4(Jt~C3l~------------------------------~----------·M•o•n•d•a•y•,D--ec.e.m.b•e•r•9•'•1•9•8•5--•p•a•g•e•l-5 

Bloom County 

Zeto 
C3EF'OF£ L.E)WINO, A.EA5C "ALL. Ol.fr TH£ CO<A<'SE 
EVAL.UATI~ RJRI'1S A/IJD 
.• HEH H€J.L. TR.' Nerr Tt> BE" roo HAR!>DN ME~ 
The Daily Crossword 

ACROSS 1 Poet Teasdale 5 Collections of 
miscellany 

9 Seedcover 14 Curmudgeon 15 Superlative 16 Guiding 
beliefs 17 Track beast 19 Disturbs 20 "Where -the 
snows..." 21 La Douce 22-Crown 23 Ga. city 25 Lacking 
standards 27 Assns. 29 Like a diamond 33 Charm 35 Lie at anchor 36 Altar words 37 Be tedious 38 Fromhere 
to there 40 Church corner 41 Ethiopian 
prince 42 Talk wildly 43 Remains of a 
collapsed 

building 45 Repeat 47 Graf ­48 Jose of music 51 Crowd together 54 Render 
harmless 57 Concerning 59 Zodiac sign 60 Ms Loos 61 Oval 63 Ice pinnacle 64 Styptic 65 Heraldic term 


66 Author Hermann 30 Tree tract 67 Ring: pref. 31 Biographer 68 Fusses Leon 
32 -toatum 

DOWN 33 Dugout 44 Overturn 53 Joins 1 Beat It! 34 Castle feature 46 Cowboy 54 Sprint 2 Macaw 35 Regret adjuncts 55 Arrow polson 3 Steeplechase 39 Finished 49 Onion roll 56 .Gentlemen 
milieu 40 Busy as-50 Bring about 58 San-, lt. 4 Vlgoda of TV 42 Exhausting 52 Right-handed 61 Cloth piece 5 Lovegod routine page 62 Turmeric 
©1985 Tribune Media Services. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
Friday's Solution 
6 Shearer of old films 7 Silkworm's 
home 8 Sault -Marie 9 Paved area 
10 Prima 
ballerina 11 Send off 12 Fee 13 Afr. fox 18 Part ofa door 22 Merchants 24 Heraldic band 26 "What -?" 28 Layer 


Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

Kevin Walsh 
~ WEL.AARE"! 
'f'E4H, "TC;1)CHERCf" TH€" 'r1J\R;' WHAT A..t:JK£! 
~ 
I ' 
~ 

""[. ~ As Harriet turned the page, a scream 
l:...
j 

escaped her lips: There was Donald-his strange disappearance no longer a mystery.
... 
Campus 

•9:30 
A.M. TO 4:30P.M.· Annual UNICEF Christmas Card S~lle, 

•4:45 
TO 6:45 P.M. · OBUD Gripe Night, 

•6 
P.M.· Slides a10d opdonal chinese din:­ner, Chinese cuisine and rural economy, Dr. Diane Murray, Notre Dame, International Stu­dent Lounge, Sponsored by Foreign Study Programs, $8 with dinner 

•7 
AND 9:30 P.M. · Movie, King Lear, En· gineering auditorium, Sponsored by Shakespeare Club, $1 


Dinner Menus 

Notre Dame roast top r-ound ofbeef creamed chicken over cornbread spinach quiche baked cheese and tomato pita 
TV Tonight 
6:00P.M. 16 NewsCentcr 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 6:30P.)I. 16 NBC NiJhtly News 22 CBS Evening News 7:00P.M. 16 MASH 22 1bree's Company 7:30P.M. 16 Barney Miller 22 WKilP In Cincinnati 8:00P.M. 16 TV Bloopers andJokes 22 CBS Special Movie: "Allee in Wonderland" 28 Hardcastle and McCormick 
34  Wonderworks:  "Bridge  to·  
Tenbitbla"  
8:30P.M:.  46  Feed the Hungry  
9:00P.M!.  16  Hallmark Hall of Fame: "Love is  
Never Sdent"  
28  NFL Monday Night Football: LA.  
Rams at Slut FrancUc:o  

•7 
-9 P.M. -Art opening, "Come and See", Charles Pell, ISUS gallery, Third floor, Riley Hall of Art , Sponsored by Department of Art, Art History and Design, 

•7-8:30P.M.-Dog 
book pictures, Junior Class office, Sponsored byJunior Class. 

•7:30 
P.M. -Worship serrice, Log Chapel, Sponsored by Amnesty International. 

•10 
P.M. -Prayer for peace, Grotto, Sponsored by Pax Christi. 


Saint Mary's brautwurst veal madeline beefpotpie spinach crepes 
34  The Brain: "State ofMind"  
!O:OOP.M.  22  capeyand Lacey  
34  Power SUuJile  
46  Calvary Temple  
!0:30P.M•  46  Uptand Uvdy  
ll:OOP.M.  16  News<:entcr 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
34  Body Electric  
46  Praise the Lord  
11:30P..M.  16  Tonight Show  
22  Remington  Steele/CBs  ~tc  
Movie: "Sweet November"  
34  Star Trek  
!2:00A.M.  28  WSJV Newswatch 28  
12:30A.M.  16  David Lcttennan  
28  ABC News Nightltne  
2:00A.M.  22  Nightwatch  

46 Independent Network News 
J 
Monday, December 9, 1985-page 16
S~orts 

Irish defeat Loyola, face Oregon at home tonight 
Price, Royal net 13; ND lifts mark to 3-1 
By ERIC SCHEUERMANN 
Auu14Jntsports Bdttor 
It wasn't pretty, but Notte Dame's 71-58 basketball 
win over the Loyob Ramblers in the ACC was still a big 
win in the eyes oflril!lb bead coach Diger Phelps. 
"To pby so poorly and still get the victory Is very imponant to us ngbt now," said Pbelps. "We'vegot a lot ofdlsuactlon& now with ftnals comin& up and everyth­ing." 
junior Donald Royal and senior Joseph Price led the lnsh with 13 poinu, while Junior center Andre Moore led the Ramblers with 19 poinll!l. 
It was a game in which the Irish conuollcd the first hail, jumping out to a 42-24 lead at halftime on 68 per­cent shooting &om the field, despite committing 12 tur­novers with some sloppy ballhandling. 
Mark Stevenson, a 6-5 &es1unan, started at guard for 
the lril!lb and helped out in the first-halfbarragc with six 
poinll!l (on 3-of-4 sbooting) and three rebounds. Al­
though appcartna tentative at times, Stevenson seemed 
more comfortable than be had in previous games. 
"I was pretty plcascd with myself today," be said. 
"I've felt a lot of prCI!II!IUfC these first few games, but 
today I felt better as far as that's concerned. I felt pretty 
good out there. I think I'm fitting into the team better." 
Forward Krn Barlow and guard Joseph Price each scored nine poinll!l to lead the Irish in the first half, and David Rivers collected eight assists, pleasing the crowd with several &st break passes. 
But the biggest crowd-plcascr of the day came when new Irish head football coach Lou Holtz appeared to give a short speech at halftime, drawing a prolonged standing ovation. And as the second half began, most Notte Dame fans assumed the game was well in hand. 
But the Ramblers quickly put that Idea to rest. They ran off a suing of 1 5 unanswered points, as the Irish went 7:59 without scoringa point. And with 13 minutes 
see IRISH, page 10 


Ducks playing well­in rebuilding season 
By CHUCK EHRMAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notte Dame basketball team Is hoping to do a 
little prime-time duck hunting tonight at 7:30 in the 
ACC. 
Ofcourse, this escapade will take place on the court 
that the Irish call home, and the guests arc the Oregon 
Ducks under third-year head coach Don Monson. 
Reconstruction has been the watchword for the 
Ducks so far this year. Gone &om bst year's squad are 
such luminaries as guard Chris Harper, forward Greg 
Trapp, and center Blair Rasmussen. Granted, these may 
not be household names, but their departure leaves 
some empty spots to be filled. 
Heading the list of returnees Is 6-4 guard Anthony ·Taylor, a starter In 30 games last year as a freshman. The 
tlashy·player averaged 1 0. 3 points and 3.5 rebounds last 
season, as well as dishing out 75 assists. 
Also back are 6-4 guard Rick Osborn ( 4.5 ppg. In 
1984-85) and 6-8 forwardjerry Adams ( 3.8 ppg. and 4.7 
rpg. in 1984-85). Helping out will be forwards Kenny 
Sprague and Keith Balderston, and 6-10 center Kofi 
Kyci. 
The Ducks were 1 5-16 last year. This year they have 
played the likes of Rutgers, Pacific, Texas Tech, and 
Northern Arizona. And next on the list Is Notre Dame. 
Notte Dame leads the series with Oregon, 1-0, having 
won the only game played between the two schools, 
66-54, at McArthur Court In Eugene In 1983. In that 
game the Irish picked up a hard-fought win after drop­
ping a double-overtime contest to Washington two 
days before. 
In the '83 contest, Tom Sluby paced the Irish with 26 
points, while Tim Kempton chipped in with 13. 
Kempton (eight rebounds) and jim Dolan (nine 
rebounds) helped the Irish keep control of the boards 
and ouucbound the Ducks, 32-19. 
"That was a big win for us out there two years ago," 
recalls Head Coach Digger Phelps. "It came at a 
see DUCKS, page 11 

Women's team needs its depth against Tennessee 
By MARlY STRASEN 
SJIO'" Writer 
One of the suengths of the Notte Dame women's basketball team is·its depth, and if the talent on the Irish bench Is ever going to come through and provide the winning punch, tonight had better be the night. 
Notre Dame faces a powerful Ten­nessee team at 4 p.m., prior to the men's game against Oregon, and the Lady Volunteers will not have to contend with a healthy Irish squad. Injuries will sideline &ontcourt players Beth Morrison and Heidi Bunek, while forward Lavetta Willis is questionable and guard Mary Gavin will play with a sore toe. 
The 6-5 Morrison has been out of action with a stress fracture in her tibia, and Bunek learned she had a similar injury after last Thursday's 76-71 victory over Michigan. Head Coach Mary DiStanislao says the 6-4 freshman will be out of the lineup for at least four weeks. 
Wltq those two on the -lnsh 
bench, Willis, along with sop­
homore Sandy Botham, would nor­mally be counted on to take a bigger role on the front line. Willis, however, might not be able to pby in tonight's contest. The 5-11 junior suffered a sprained thumb in Friday's practice and has had her hand in a cast all weekend. She will be ex­amined today and, according to DiS­tanislao, will play only ifthe cast can be removed and ifthere is no swell­ing. 

"Now we're going to have to go to the depth we have," explains DiS­tanislao. "Those players are going to be seeing a lot ofplaying time." 

Tbe Notre Dame bockey team was in action tbis Huntville, 5-3 and 10-7, to continue its impressive WHitend, sWHping a series wttb Alabama-play at home. Dennis Corrigan bas details atright. 

The Irish, who employed a full­court press for most ofgame against Michigan and used their depth to outlast the Wolverines, will have to alter their suategy somewhat in or­der to preserve what players they have left. DiStanislao plans to pressure the Tennessee defense with an opportunistic attack. 
"We've got to try and control the tempo," she says. "We have to do that with what we do offensively. If we can't put pressure on their of­fense, we can put the pressure on their defense. That means taking advantage ofevery situation and not forcing shots ifwe don't have them." 
As far as the opposition is con­cerned, the Irish could not have chosen a worse time to step onto the court with injuries. The Lady Volun­teers of Tennessee are always a na­tional power, and DiStanlslao believes that this year's ream might be their best in years. 
"Tennessee is probably the deepest they've ever been," she ex­plains. "They're probably the big-
see WOMEN, page 12 

Hockey team continues its solid play at home 
ByDE~SCORRlGAN 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame hockey team Is starting to become an unfriendly host. With this weekend's 5-3 and 10-7 sweep of Alabama-J-luntsville, the Irish ran their home record to 5-1-1. More Importantly by going 5­2-1 in their last 8 games, the lnsh have upped their overall mark to 7­
8-1. 

"We've played better than average, with more consistency since the Lake Forest series," said Notte Dame head coach Lefty Smith after Saturday's victory. "We've played better in the specialty areas. Tonight we scored a couple skating four-on-four so it shows up. The players are learning more about us, and we're learning more about them. Each week we're settling in more." 
Friday night's game saw the Irish fall behind to the Chargers, 3-1, mid­way through the second period before rallying to the 5-3 victory. 
Brent Chapman got the Irish on 
the board first when he put a slaphot 
into the top of the net off of a drop 
pass from Tim Reilly. Chapman's 
ninth goal ofthe season came at 7:21 
of the first period. It looked like the 
Irish would take the 1-0lead into the 
first intermission, but the Chargers' 
Mike O'Connor tied the score with 
34 seconds remaining in the period. 
After Ralph Drensek and Greg Stedman gave Huntsville a 3-1 lead with 11: 1 5 gone In the second period, Freshman Matt Hanzel, cen­tering for the injured Mark An­quillare, scored his first collegiate goal to draw the Irish to within one. With Notre Dame on a power play, 
see HOCKEY, page 11 




