~ ~~ ~---------­
Record broken -page 7 


VOL XX, NO. l l thl' mdqwndt·nt ~llllil'nl lll'\\~p;qwr ~lT\ ing lltlln daml' ;md ..ami mar)·~ MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1985 

Bernardin, O'Connor to speak here Oct. 1 on abortion, economy 
By THERESA GUARINO the 19H.:i bishops letter on war and !iairlt Mary's Executtroe Editor peace. Bernardin, leader of the na­tion's largest archdiocese, has Abortion, human rights, and the spoken frequently on his "seamless economy will be topics for discus­garment" theory ofopposition to all sion when Cardinal Joseph Bernar­life-threatening issues, such as war, din, archbishop of Chicago, and disease, the death penalty, and eut­Cardinal John_ O'Connor, archbis­hanasia. He ha~ come under hop of New York. visit Notre Dame criticism by anti-abortion foes for October I . repeatedly urging Catholics to in­Bt·rnardin and O'Connor, speak· clude abortion with these other 
ing in Washington Hall. will forces: com:entrate on the impending O'Connor came into public view world synod of bishops in Novem­during last year's presidential cam­bt·r. which will rt·examine the im­paign when he publicly criticized 
pact of \'atican II on Roman the pro-choice abortion positions of Catholics. ·n1eir discussion Democratic vice presidential can­"(.;audium et Spes-'Ole Pa~toral Con­didate Geraldine Ferraro. Some stitution on che Church in the world: critics, including New York South Bend or Colorado? Its lmpat·t on the Social Teachings of Govenor Mario Cuomo, has sug­Freshman enjoy the chance to cool offfrom the the United States Bishops," will gested that the cardinal was not ac­90-degree temperatures Saturday at the East Race center on the Gaudium et Spes, a let­ting politically impartisan at the ter written in anticipation of the bis­time. O'Connor recently was hops' synod. successful in opposing a court order 

Howard resident critically injured
The program is being sponsored of New York City Mayor Ed Koch, by the l.aw School's 'Jbomas ). and which would have forced all groups Albt·rta White Center on Law and receiving c:;ity funds, including the 
in hit and run accident early Sat.
(iovernment, and will be moderated Archdiocese of New York. to pledge by Oougla~ Kmiec, Center direcwr. non-discrimination against By MARK PANKOWSKI also a 23 year-old South Bend resi­One of the students stayed with 
Kmkt· called Bernardin and homosexuals. Copy Editor dent, had gone to the St. Joseph Hurley, who was knocked uncon· O'Connor "perhaps the two best The two cardinals have been seen County Police Department Saturday scious, while the other ran to the known Church spokesmen in to have opposing views by some A Notre Dame freshman remained afternoon and said they were the Fatima Retreat Center and called an America." ""Jbey are extremely ar­Church members, but Kmiec in critical condition last night after a ones who were in the car when it ambulance, said Rakow. ticulate on topics of Catholic social believes the two are in agreement hit-and-run driver struck him on U.S. struck Hurley, said Rakow. Gallivan 
Hurley was taken to Memorialteachings," he said. on basic Church teachings. 31-33 between Saint Mary's and !>tated she was the driver, he said. 
Hospital and surgery was begun atEach cardinal will speak for 30 "The cardinals share a common Notre Dame early Saturday morning. No charges have been filed against approximately 7 a.m. after doctorsminutes and then answer questions understanding of Church history her male aquaintance, said Rakow. 
Kevin Hurley, a Howard Hall resi­had completed their diagnosis of his
from a panel of several Notre Dame and teachings," he said. "They em­The accident occurred at ap·
dent, was still in intensive care and injuries, Rakow said. He came out of
fat·ulty members. phasize different aspects ofCatholic proximately 3 a.m. Saturday,
"holding his own" as of 10 p.m. last surgery at approximately 3:30 p.m. 
Bernardin and O'Connor have social teachings, but I don't see them Rackow said, as Hurley and two ot·
night, said Lydia Vaught, a registered 
become quite visible within the last her students were returning to Although Gallivan was arrested 
nurse at Memorial Hospital ofSouth 
few years. Both cardinals worked on see CARDINALS, page 3 Notre Dame after walking their and taken to the county jail Saturday, 
Bend. 

dates to Saint Mary's. Notre Dame Security Is continuing
Hurley had undergone ap· 
t-lurley was the third one back of its investigation with the assistance
proximately nine hours of surgery 
the students as they crossed at the of the St. Joseph County Police
Saturday for multiple injuries, in­
light on U.S. 31-33 and Saint Mary's Department, Rakow said. 
cluding a fractured pelvis, bruised 
Road, he said. Investigators have not
lung. fractured lower left leg. and Gallivan's lawyer has instructed 
determined whether the light was 
numerous abdominal and head in· her not to make any voluntary state­
red or green when they crossed, he
juries, Vaught said. ments, he said. 
said. Gallivan's vehicle has been im·
Mary Beth Gallivan, a 23 year-old f\s they crossed, a 1979 Firebird Trans-Am traveling northbound pounded and will be processed by
South Bend resident, was charged at an evidence technician for physical
Saturday with criminal recklessness an undetermined speed "came out involving bodily injury, said Rex of nowhere," and hit Hurley, Rakow evidence this morning, Rakow said. Rakow, assistant director of Notre quoted one ofthe students as saying. Investigators also will Interview a Dame Security. The driver did not stop, Rakow man claiming to have witnessed the Cardinal Joseph Bernardin Gallivan and a male aquaintance, said. 
accident. 

ND class governments want more of student activity fee 
To solve the problem of class "It's not only the classes that want She would recommend one com­By MARK PANKOWSKI Service life, he said, includes such mittee be obligated to the classes

Copy Editor areas as career planning, speakers governments' need for more funds, more money, it's the clubs too. and liturgical services. several solutions have been offered. Everyone wants more money," and special projects such as the Healy said. "Raising the fee would United Way campaign, one
As it stands now, two budget com­

Everyone seems to agree ott the They include increasing the stu· help clubs, student government, and obligated to clubs and organizations,problem: Notre Dame class govern­mittees recommend to the Student dent activities fee, adding a third the Student Activities Board." and one obligated to those groupsments need more money. Senate how much each group, or­
budget committee that would be 
Another advocate of an Increase now under the 80-percent commit­Few, however, seem to agree on ganization or class should receive of 
obligated to the classes and not the 
in the fee isJoni Neal, director ofstu­tee.

the solution. the approximate $250,000 In stu­clubs, having one committee that dent activities. Other universities, Instead of a third budget commit·The problem stems from the in­dent activities fees. would make recommendations on she points out, have Jl20 activities tee, Domagalski favors the creationcreased role class governments have One committee, responsible for how all the funds should be all· fees and are not "stretchingthe same of one committee that would "have come to play in students' social life. ocated, and placing the classes un­
20 percent of the funds, recom­amount of of dollars as much as we all the students sit down and decideAlthough the classes' role has mends how much of those funds der the SO-percent committee. do." how to divide that 100 percent (ofchanged, the 198-i fiscal policy has should go to each club or class. The the funds) among all the organiza­
All of these solutions would have If the senate recommends an In··not and classes still must share 20 other committee, responsible for 80 to be approved by the senate and crease and It can justify the need, tions."
percent of the student activities fees percent of the funds, recommends Father David Tyson, vice president Tyson said, he "could get it ap· That way, he said, if there has beenwith over 140 clubs. 

what portion of that amount should ofstudent affairs, ifthey are to be In­proved by the officers as well as the a change in the needs of students,"O!at simply Is not enough, ac­go to organizations such as student stituted. For the student activities Board. each year's senate can look at thatcording to Jim Domagalski, junior the Ac·
government and Student fee to be increased, the approval of "We won't say no to a fee increase change and fund accordingly. 
cia~ president. 
tlvities Board. 
the several University officers and if it's shown to be necessary," he There is "no room for immediate"By having us in the 20 percent This year, for example, the sop· Board of Trustees also would be re­said. change," because of the way the fis.

(committee), as we arc now, there's quired. If the senate balks on raising the cal policy is set up now, Domagalski homore, junior and senior classesno way we can have funding to do 

received approximately $3500, One advocate ofan Increase in the activities fee, Neal said she would said.
what we: should be able to do in stu­

dents' social life, as well as In their while student government received J35 student activities fee Is Bill support the addition of a third see BUDGET, page 3 
$59,300. Healy, student body president. budget committee.
service life," Domagalski said. 



The Observer Monday, September 9, 1985-page 2 

In Brief . 
A professor was allegedly mugged as he 
left Albert's Tavern, 501 Lincolnway West in South Bend. Angel Delgado-Gomez, a Notre Dame assistant professor of modern and classical languages, 2808 Royal Huntman's Court, at approximately 8 p.m. Friday, was forced to the ground while walking through the tavern's parking lot. The suspects took Delgado-Gomez's wallet con­taining an unspecified amount ofmoney, he said. -The Observer 
Notre Dame seniorMark Seals was elected president ofthe Indiana Baptist Student Union during the organization's spring retreat last April. Seals, who also is president of the local Baptist Student Union, is the first Notre Dame student elected president of the state group. The Baptist Student Union is a fellowship ofcollege students sponsored by local Baptist churches. -The Observer 
Kerry Temple has been appointed as 
managing editor ofNotre Dame Magazine, editor Walton Collins has announced. He succeeds James Winters, who has accepted an ap­pointment as articles editor ofChicago Magazine. Temple Is the aut­hor of several articles for area and national publications, and has been serving as associate editor of the magazine. He is a 1974 graduate ofNotre Dame, and earned a graduate degree in journalism from Louisiana State University in 1976. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame army ROTC battalion had its 
fall award ceremony Thursday. Earning top awards were C/Cpl. Scott Boehm and C/Ltc. Alan Perry for superior ROTC summer camp performance at Fort Lewis, Wash. Also recognized were two and three year scholarship recipients, those cadets who attended special schools this summer, and the distinguished military students of the senior class. -The Observer 

Of Interest ' 
Eating problemswill be the topic ofa program, "Why Women are at Risk," tomorrow night from 6:30 to 8Tn Carroll Hall at Saint Mary's. The program, sponsored by the Counseling and Career Development Center, will include discussions on the role ofculture in eating problems, and how eating and diet habits effect health and emotions. The program is open to the public. More information can be obtained by calling the Center at 284-4565. -The Observer 
The roadway in front ofLaFortune Student Center will be closed tomorrow and Wednesday while construction work is completed on a water line. Delivery vehicles that must make calls to LaFortune, Washington Hall or the Band Annex will use the Main Quad roadway. -The Observer 
Students considering lawschoolare urged 

to attend the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Pre-Law Society general meeting tonight at 7 ;30 in the Engineering Auditorium. Dean Robert Waddick wiJl speak on course selection, LSAT preparation, and more. Underclassmen are encouraged to attend. -The Observer 

Weather 
Take your umbrella with you today as it will be warm and humid with a 60 percent chance of thunderstorms and highs in the upper 80s. Warm tonight with a 50 percent chance of thunderstorms with lows in the up­per 60s. Cloudy and cooler tomorrow with a 20 percent chance of showers and temperatures 


peaking in the lower 80s. -AP 
Today's issue was produced by: 
Design Editor ...............Jane Ann Riedford 
Design Assistant.. ...................... Paul Bruce 
Typesetters ...................................... Pat Clark 
Bill Highducheck Emergency Repairs ......... Mark B. Johnson News Editor .............................Jane Kravcik Copy Editor ........................ Margie Kersten Sports Copy Editor....................... Phil Wolf Viewpoint Copy Editor....... Cindy Rauck· horst Viewpoint Layout...................joe Murphy Features Copy Editor .............. Mary Healy Features Layout................... Ellyn Mastako ND Day Editor........................ Aimee Starin SMC Day Editor.................... Ellyn Mastako Ad Design .................... Catherine Ramsden 
Sara Wolohan Photographer ........................ Paul Clffarelli Typtst .............................. Jodi SMllenbarger 



Companies offer instant credit to college students 
Instant credit. The typical college student's mailbox is stuffed with letters offering an array of plastic for just a signature. 
Amy

And hoardes ofstudents are responding to these offers. Ten years ago it would have been difficult, if not im­
Stephan

possible, for a college student to have a credit card in his or her own name. Today, ifyou're a junior or senior, 
Managing Editor

a whole army ofbanks, department stores and gas com­panies are vying for a spot in your wallet. 

For a non-student to receive credit from a bank such ment store and gas cards. as Citibank, he or she would probably have to hold a "The acceptance rate for these cards is un­$20,000 per year job. Most college students have no believable," said Fromm. "What they are saying is come steady source of income, no collateral and are at least and get it, we are acce!!sible as the phone." several thousand dollars in debt. Why then are com­Citibank seems to have hit on something big. Accord­panies campaigning to give students credit? ing to Fromm, when they first entered the college 
The reasons aren't terribly difficult to unearth. market, there was some concern that students wouldn't 
Most students aren't burdened with lots of ready be as reliable as regular cardholders. But when they cash, but with a credit card, one doesn't need cash to launched the program, Citibank found students to be get by. For those with plastic money, food, gas, books "as or even more reliable than ordinary new and certain forms of liq~id cardholders," Fromm said. entertainment are all just a signature away. But few stu­Citibank realized that dents use their Visa only in most students don't remain financial · emergencies. students forever. They Credit cards offer a graduate into S25,000 per relatively painless way to year jobs, families, houses, bring home that new stereo and lots and lots of pur­or camera. chases. Citibank offers stu-
And for those who can't dents money now, when justify holding a credit card their needs and funds are for emergency or impulse comparatively minimal, purchases, there's always knowing that when they the almighty credit rating. graduate they'll still be car­We're warned that without rying that Citibank credit this mystical stamp of ap­card. proval, we'll be unable to "College students receive buy a car or rent an apart­the same consideration be­ment upon graduation. How cause they're putting in time does one build a credit for potential employment, rating? Hold (and use) preparing themselves to credit cards, ofcourse. become consumers," 
The need for a good credit rating is not only a reason Fromm said. to apply for credit, it also serves as insurance for the A huge untapped market of reliable customers, and a creditor. No ambitious college student is going to risk a well-planned attack on that market -a very smart busi­good credit rating by defaulting on a MasterCard bill. ness move by Citibank. But what does this lowering of He or she will find some way, be it a raid on the savings the credit barriers mean to students? account or a check from mom and dad, to cover at least The credit crusade on the college campus promises the minimum payment. students cheap credit, an easy way to build a credit 
According to Michael Fromm, public relations rating-and debts. You can't have the first two results representative for Citibank Visa, "Students have as without the last. much to spend as everyone else and are as reliable as Students can admire Citibank's ingenuity and, if so everyone else." inclined, call for a credit card application. (The number 
Citibank, the largest bank in the country, is also one is l-(800 )-824-4000.) One would do well to remem­of the most innovative in cracking the college market. ber, however, that the bill will come at the end of the Three years ago, they launched a test campaign at 300 month.--------------­schools. Today they have programs at 1,000 colleges Support and recently announced a credit bot-line. Students can dpM h f D' now dial a toll-free number to request applications for a ~~9DEfEc9.ouNDAHJ:1~ 
Citibank Visa or MasterCard, as well as several depart­
*********************************** 
.---------,! Pre-Law Students ! 
Writers' Block ! (Any Student Considering Law School) ~ * Anena * 
Cured * * 
Send $2 for catalog of ~ The Pre-Law Society General Meeting : over 16,000 topics, to * * 
assist your writing eff-~ 7:30pm,Mon.,Sept.9,inEng.Aud. : orts and help you beat * * Writers 1 Block. For info., lt * call TOLL-FREE 1-BQ0-621-lt-DeanWaddickwlllspeakon: * 5745. (In Illinois, call~ * 312-92 2-0300.) Authors' Re-* Course selection, applying, financial aid, events planned, etc. ! search, Rm. 6()(}-N, 407 South * * Dearborn, Chicago IL 60605. lt SponsoredbytheNotreDame-SalntMary'sPre-lawSoclety * 
Please Bring $4 Membership lee Freshmen Encouraged
*********************************** 


r-------------------------,
1 Coupon Coupon I 
I FAN SALE I I 30%· 60%0ff Fans I
I (while quantities last) I 120'' 3-Speed Reg 24.99 -Now 17.991 120'' 3-SReed Reg 34.99 -Now 24.991 1 Deluxe 1 110" 2-Speed Reg 39.99 -Now 15.991 
I JCPenney I 
University Park Mall I
I Coupon Mishawaka Coupon 

~-------------------------~ 
The Observer 
'Jbe Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) Is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. 'Jbe Obaerver is published by the: students of tb.:: Univ.::rsity of Notre Dam.: and Saint Mary's Coll.::g.::. Subscriptions may M purchased for $30 per y.::ar ( 120 per S.::· m.::stc:r) by writing 'Jbe ObeervM, P.O. 
Box Q, Notre Dam.:, Indiana 46556. 
1be 0~ Is a member of 'Jbe 
~ Press. All r.::productlon 
rights arc: rc:s.::rv.::d. 

The Observer Monday, September 9, 1985-page 3 

Father-Daughter weekend starts Fri. 
By MARK DICKINSON 
News Staff 
Senior Father-Daughter Weekend at Saint Mary's is three years old this year, and and ac­cording to Bridget Hayes, chair­woman of the event, "This year's weekend promises to be the best ever." 
Approximately I '50 seniors are expected to participate with their fathers in activities ranging from lectures to dancing the night away at Senior Bar. 
The festivities begin Friday night at H with the Irish band Scartaglen performing Celtic Dance Music in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Scartaglen will move to the terrace of Haggar College Center from I 0 until 12 Friday night to provide music for Irish Pub Night. Green beer and Irish cof­fee will be served. 
At I I p.m., the party moves across U.S. 31 to Senior Bar. 
Saturday's events begin at I 0 

a.m. with a series of lectures in Stapleton Lounge in l..eMans Hall. 
Mary Stoddart, professor of Psyc­hology at Saint Mary's, will speak on "Father-Daughter Relation­ships" followed at 11 a.m. by Jeff Roberts, assistant director of placement services at Saint Mary's, speaking about "Life After Graduation." 
At 11 :30 a.m., students and their fathers are invited to a tail­gater beside Haggar College Center. Afterward, the Notre Dame-Michigan game can be seen on two big screen T.V.'s inside Haggar College Center. 
For those who don't follow Notre Dame football, a sports fes­tival will be held all morning featuring daughters vs. dads in golf, tennis, racquetball, and softball. 
A highlight ofthe weekend will be Casino Night from 9-12 in An· gela Athletic Facility. This black tie affair will include prizes for the best gambler, an open bar and dancing. 
The weekend will conclude on Sunday with 10 a.m. mass in the Church of Loretto and brunch in the dining hall. 

Coup overthrows Thai government 
AAoclatcd Pre88 

BANGKOK, Thailand · A group of military officers seized control ofof­ficial Radio Thailand early this mor­ning and announced they had seized pow~r "to correct the seriously deteriorating situation of the economy." 
Earlier reports had said some air force officers had attempted a coup but encountered opposition from army units. 
But the broadcast over Radio 
Thailand said miliary men led by a 
former armed force supreme com­
mander, Gen. Serm Nanakorn, had 
overthrown the elected govern­
ment of Prime Minister Prem Tin­
sulanonda, who was on an official 
visit to Indonesia. 

"There is no change of the com­manders of the police and the military," the broadcast said. "Any military movements must be under the orders of the chiefofthe revolu­tionary group." 
Four tanks and soldiers from an armored cavalry division took up positions around Government House, where the prime minister's office is located, and blocked off all streets leading to the compound. 
The soldiers refused to talk with reporters. 
Tanks also were seen at the public information department and around the royal palace. 
Activity appeared normal in Bangkok's streets, with people going to their jobs or shopping. 
Both of Thailand's most powerful figures were abroad, with Prem in Jakarta for bilateral talks and the armed forces supreme commander, Gen. Arthit Kamlang-Ek, touring Western Europe. 
percent bracket and put in the SO­
percent bracket. "We should consider them as a continuedfrom page I major funding obligation rather than 
Rather than eliminate the two as a dub or organization," Abood committees in favor of one, Student said. Senator Chris Abood said the classes Whatever the solution turns out should "be taken taken out ofthe 20-to be, Healy said, the classes will be 

Budget 
Prem, an army general, is the leader of a four-party coalition government that won the last general election in April 1983. His government has glven unprece­dented stability to Thai politics that previously were dominated by the armed forces and coups. 
Prem did come under criticism from Arthit late last year when his administration pushed through a devaluation of Thailand's currency, the baht. 
Prem had been designated prime minister by Parliament on Feb. 29, 1979, after Gen. Kriangsak Chamanan resigned from the post. 
Kriangsak had been named prime minister by a 23-member Revolu­tionary Council established by the armed forces after a military coup ousted the government of Thanim Kralvichien on Oct. 20, 1977. 
receiving more money in the future. 
"Ever since the alcohol policy, there's been an evolution in the idea that students at Notre Dame deserve a social life," he said. 
"Everyone is now committed to that including the Board of Trustees," Healy added. 


Getdown to business faster. With the BA-35. 
If there's one thing husiness calculations, amortizations A powerful comhination. students have always needed, and halloon payments. Think husiness. With this is it: an affordahle, husi· The BA-35 means you the BA-35 Student ..lis ness-oriented calculator. spend less time calculating, Business Analyst. ~ The Texas Instruments and more time learning. One BA-35, the Student Business keystroke takes the place 
TEXAS

Analyst. of many. Its huilt-in husiness The calculator is just part INSTRUMENTS formulas let you perform of the package. You also get 
Creating useful products complicated finance, a hook that follows most 
and services for you. accounting and statistical husiness courses: the Business functions-the ones that Analyst Guidehook. Rusiness usually re4uire a lot of time professors helped us write it, and a stack of reference hooks, to help you get the most out like present and future value of calculator and classroom. 
"lll~'i Tl 
audience wiU have an opportunity for questions after the panel discus­


Cardinals 
sion. A dinner in the South Dining Hall in honor of the cardinals will
continuedfrom page I 

follow the program. as being in opposition to each ot­Seating in Washington Hall is her." limited, and tickets wiU be available 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, Uni­approximately one week in advance, versity president, will introduce according to Kmiec. There is no Bernardin and O'Connor. The charge for tickets. 
"All' !/WI iu 11111/.~hape lu rlt-it~·l" FROM FRIENDS TO FRIENDS. "/'t•r• uet•er.fi•/1 !Jt'llet:" 
FAMOUS LAST WORDS 
DRINKING AND DRIVING 
CAN KIJ. A FRIENDSHIR 
**************••••••*************** 
: Pre-Law Students * : (Any Student Considering Law School) :* Attend * 
a* The Pre-Law Society General Meeting : * 
• *
a 7,30pm, .....Sept. 9,1n Eng.Aud. ~ 
i Deanwaddlokwlllopeakoo' ~ 
~ Course selection, applyln•l financial .aid, events planned, etc. 
* 

Sponsored by the Notre Dame· Saint Mary's Pre-low Society : Please Bring $4 Membership fee Freshmen Encouro!ile~ 
**********•******•***•**•********** 
II DELIVERY HOURS: 6:00 ·Midnight 272·5455
NAUGLEse 

501 Dbdeway North, Roseland. Indiana 
NAUGLES TO YOUR DORM!! 
AMERICAN KITCHENMEXICAN KITCHEN 

Hamburgen · 4 to • poulld CUS10M GRIUID NOT STOCK PI.EO 

R... Mocho 
Taco 1.09 1.69 
Burrito• Nougleboorger 1.99 B..n 1.79 2.49 2 Patt\n with the works Meet 2.39 3.29 doublo d-. 
Combo 2.09 2.79 
1.89 2.59 Deluu H•mba.,.... 1.39
Ch""" Make any bwrtto wet for 50 cents!! 
2 Pattlos with lottuco. 
tomato, mayo dressing

P.S. Don'! order macho unle55 you're rudy /or a 
pound of goodies! Homburger 1.19 2 Pallleo with ptcklo, ketchup.
Nat::hoe a Ch-M 1.19 
mustard, onklnHl.lve some SBuce for no extra charge to spkv them 

addchone .20 
up that much monr. 

Mocho Nocho'e 2.19 DESSERTS Retried beans, chtps, cheese, peppers, mild meat 
Hot Fudgl • Hot C.enwl • Str~ • CIJ119 
sauce, spk:y ~ sauce! 
~• Oloco&lle • a..v • v..... Root e. 

Sheloeto (In a shell · wonderful! Sundon 1.49 
Rog. Plana Fudge Brownie .69 Mexican S.lad 1.29 2.89 Poetry .69 To•tada Combo 1.59 2.09 fudge Brownie Sundoo 1.69 Chilo Ole' .99 2.39 Toco Sandwich 1.49 2.59 DRINK UPI Chlckoa Sandwich 1.74 2.14 
P1atter AssortnMirll of sauces & ikJe orders 
To.tada Grande 3.29 1.09 

Cold-··­
12 oa. • .64 20 oa. • .79 S2 oa. • .94 

Want It a special way just order H! 
Pepsi, Dlo1 Pepsi, Roo! S.., Mt. Dow Enchllocl•'e (Planer of 21 
0.. Pepper, Welchn, Sunklll, l..ornonade lc< Tea. Milk. Orango Juice

Meat ~ lotza sauce & cheese 2.00 Chicken 2.50 Hot-ro-·.47 
CoHee, Hoi Chocolaie, Ho< Tu
DINNERS 


SIDE ORDERS 
Freac:h Frln .99
413 Meat Burrito 
Rarloclllune .99
•4 Chene Burrito a Taco 

wllh chill Nil« .99 Complole wilh Mexican salad. relried boons, chili & 
Necho Chlpe .39 

cheese, guacAmole, sour cream & a ptle of chtps. 
GuocoODOio Fmh, Froth, Fmh .19 A dinner with eflOU!IIIelt 0\1'111' tor totnafTOW's LUNCH/ Sour Crnm .25 
4.79 Extro c-.. lor onythlng .50 
Plus tax on prices · $5.00 minimum order 
View~_o_i_n__t________
M-on-da-y,_se-pte_m_be-r9_,1-98-5-_pa-ge-4 



Many issues are complicating apartheid solution 
The current state of affairs in South Africa has occupied the front pages of our hometown newspapers all summer. The situa­tion lies heavily on the conscience of Americans according to polls, and lawmakers, reacting to the growing public pressure, have called for some sort ofpunitive action by our nation. 
Ken Kollman 
no easy solutions 
Most Americans agree on the necessary eradication ofthe evil system ofapartheid, but how does the world's most powerful democracy pressure one of its strategic allies into internal change? 
There is concern the economic sanctions currently pendingin Washington will hurt the blacks and anger the white government in South Africa all the more, causing a backlash even more severe than the current state of emergency. Unfortunately, President Reagan's policy of "Constructive Engage­ment" has done little more than associate this administration with those "moderate" whites in Pretoria who call for evolutionary change. 
Neither economic sanctions nor careful coaxing can persuade the Botha government that dismantling apartheid is good for its 

South Africa will listen because of leverage 
DearEditor: 
I have a few cavils with law-student Steve 
Safranek's article on United States protest 
against apartheid. The reason Americans must 
make South Africa a priorityover, say, Afganis­
tan or Viet Nam is that we have some leverage 
on that situation. We helped, ingood measure, 
to keep the hateful apartheid system in place 
for the past thirty years. So has our chief ally 
Great Britain. Both-countries have turned a 
blind eye while investing heavily in South 
Africa 
As a history major at Notre Dame, I wrote 
my senior essay on the historiography of the 
South African War, 1899-1902. After the two 
white tribes, the British and the Afrikanes, had 
finished with their brutal conflict, a capitalist 
war if ever there was one, victorious Britain 
realized, that to govern that bit of the Empire 
successfully, it had to make peace in a hurry 
with the defeated white tribe. This was ac­
hieved by selling blacks down the river. The 
defeated Boers insisted on a color-bar clause 
to the constitution which would exclude 
blacks from political participation. I still 
remember my rage at that discovery. 
Safranek leaves outofhis analysis the urgent 
need for the United Stated to learn from its 
past mistakes as it deals with South Africa I 
have the cock-up In Iran in mind. C.I.A. ac­
tivity to keep a corrupt Shah in place -our 
refusal to hear the outrage of those the Shah 
oppressed -helped to produce that virulent, 
militant form of Islam which is wreaking so 
much havoc in the Middle East. Had America 
shown some political savvy and backed some 
moderates like Bani Sadrk very early on, Iran 
might be a different story today. I shudder to 
Garry Trudeau 

country. It is difficult to escape the idea that continued violence and an eventual revolu­tion, whether successful or unsuccessful, are inevitable. 
Hard-line conservative and liberal Americans have ready-made prescriptions to cure South African ills. It would be so nice to believe that either will be a panacea; however, the interested observer increasingly becomes frustrated the more he learns about the situa­tion. 
Some troubling facts make our dilemma all 
the more perplexing: 

•The 
white Afrikaners have been in South Africa for centuries. To say they do not belong in Africa or do not deserve a share ofpower is akin to claiming today's Americans do not have the same rights in what was once Indian territory. Most of the black South Africans are more recent arrivals to the area than the Afrikaners. 

•No 
existing government in power ever is going to commit suicide. In calling for one­man/one-vote, the reformers actually are cal­ling for the removal of white authority in South Africa. Although one-man/one-vote is what we as Americans agree is moral and in the spirit of our Constitution, the white government in Pretoria never will concur be­cause in its opinion, this system amounts to political suicide. 


As troubling as it sounds, the establishment oftrue democracy in South Africa involves an overthrow of power, and probably violence and bloodshed. This is repulsive to all ofus. 
•Growing 
pressure from the right-wing conservative party in South Africa only delays any attempt at reform by Bntha and the ruling national party. Even more unsettling is the growing membership of several racist­military parties which call for any and all measures to combat reform. They are willing lO use violence to maintain apartheid and their racially segregated society. There are enough administrators near Botha who are in­fluenced by the political strength ofthe right to slow progress and convince him reform only will lead South Africa down a path of "Communism" and disaster. 

•The 
blacks in South Africa are not unified in their proposed means for change. Ranging from blacks who work for the government as informers, to those who align themselves with the outlawed African National Congress and see violence as the only means toward reform, the blacks have had little success in finding a leader who represents all of their interests. Currently, Desmond Tutu seems to be the most visible black leader but large groups such as the Zulus, led by Galsha Buthelezi, and the United Democratic Front disagree publicly with Tutu on the methods ofreform. 


Other interests and conflicts sometimes divert the attention away from the original goals. The two largest black organizations in South Africa, the Inkatha and the UDF, cur-

P.O. BoxQ 
think of the anti-American backlash which 
will occur when blacks finally gain their 
liberty in South Africa if we continue 
"Construstive Engagement" with white fas­
cists. 

There is a lot of thinly veiled anti­Communism in Safranek's article. We, in this country, must quit ourperpetual litanyofRus­sian sins. The immature polity, like the im­mature person, blame others and tries to control the behavior of others. H we con­centrated on improving our own political morality and began to tighten up on the ero­sion ofdemocratic values in the United States, we would not suffer nearly so much effective competition from Marxism In the world 
arena. 

Question: Why is there so much right­wingery in the Notre Dame Law School? Does the mutt lie with American law or the Notre Dame milieu? 
Ann Pettifer Notre Dame Alumna South Bend, IN 
Dad's words of advice were extremely moving Dear Editor: 
As we all sat around the lunch table reading The Observer-just like every Monday, Wed­nesday and Friday -a particular article stood out. One by one, amidst the hustle, clanking trays, and the deli lady yelling "What else?", we all read the guest column by Robert Burtchaell to his daughter titled, "Father sends advice to his freshman daughter." 
Teary-eyed and emotionally moved would be an understatement of our joyous, jealous and envious reaction. How we wished those 
MY5UIT/30FPIIINTIN65.' TWO
MICJIAEL! tfAK& 
HUH~ 

Yl'"ARS OF twRJ<. RNISHetJ! 17'5 W/JA .. ?
tiP/ I'V&­

QI(AY FOR. Y{)J 70 60 INTO MY
J RNISHEO! 
FIN/9HEO 5TUI?IO NOlA.!/
~ \ 
WHAT? 
I tuHATT!Mc 15/T?

lrF--= 
I 

I HOPC YOUCAN RELATe TO THeM. 
YOU'URNOA 5TRON60JRR£NTrF IRONYCIJT5ACR055 MY UN~YING 
/ CIJMM5N'5 ON KI7SC/i 
P05T(}RING, ANP.. ANO.. OH,NO! 
special words and thoughts could have been written for us. 
How lucky this young woman is to have such a father. Not only one that feels this way and is willing and able to express hiril.self as such, but to even go so far as to share these wonders with the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community. 
Would it not be wonderful if we could all remember Burtchaell's secret? He had help. We all need that help-God. What a friend to have. 
So often God is perched on top of LeMans tower or on the Administration Building steps. Like Burtchaell, I see him in the eyes of proud parents dropping off their timid fresh­men, in the excitement of returning roommates and enthusiastic teachers, in the glow of the candles at the Grotto and even in the hypnotizing fountain on Lake Marion. 
I would not be the same old student if I did not thank Robert Burtchaell for his letter and for all those at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's who make this college community so special. 
I have a few reminders from a student's perspective. Do not forget your parents and all they have done to get you here. Do not let the booze be a big part of your life. Do not harp on looking for a husband or a wife. 
Last and most importantly, use what talents rently are locked in a struggle for land and in­fluence. 
•There is no guarantee that international economic pressure, such as that from the United States, will improve the situation for South African blacks. American conservatives make a substantial claim that it will hurt the black workers more than it will help them, even driving unemployed blacks back lO the homeland. Buthelezi, the leader of the Zulus, agrees. Divestiture sends Pretoria an un­clouded show of American disapproval that our consciences merely cannot dismiss. Tutu claims the loss of black jobs is a price his people may have to pay to achieve the politi­cal rights they deserve. 
The entire controversy is complex. Addi­tional problems include the unions, the Indians and coloreds, the mixed feelings of the South African press and other complicat­ing matters. We begin to see why there is no simple course ofaction for the United States. 
Our nation needs to take more action, but how? A sophisticated problem such as this one calls for a sophisticated solution, one that Washington does not have at the moment. One thing we can say is neither Reagan's nor Botha's method is working. 
Ken Kollman is a sophomore English and government major and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
you possess; the woods would be very silent if no bird sang there except those that sang best. 
Stop. Take a breath. Take to heart this quote and all that well-spoken father had to say. This is what it is all about. 
Michelle Coleman Holy Cross Hall 

Theft of personal letter a disturbing experience 
Dear Editor: 
Last Wednesday night in the library I was the victim of a very disturbing theft. It was a letter; sealed, stamped and ready to be mailed. I had just written it to my sister and left it, for a moment, unguarded. 
For a while I could not believe what had happened, and I am still very confused at what type ofperson could commit an act like that. I wonder how he felt when reading it. Did it give him a feeling of secret power to eavesdrop on the private thoughts of a stranger? Did it help him forget, if only for a few minutes, what a nobody, what a nothing he really must be? I hope it did, for now what 
else  can  it  serve  him but as  a  constant  
reminder  of that very fact.  
john Patella  

Holy Cross Hall 


99.9 PERCENT 
That is the percentage of letters to the editor that we print.Write us. 
Joe Murphy Viewpoint Editor 
Doonesbury 
I'FOR60T TO COM-MeNTON CAREER15M. lJIIMMIT, 61~Mt/IN077-Il3/Z JJ!YOU'V£3 
HOUR. 8CEN fXJ!N6 
Jl-(15 70M/3 
ALL IAII?a<./ 
I 
P.O.Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Quote of the day 

"I was angry with my friend: I told my wrath, my wrath did end. I was angry with my foe: I told it not, my wrath did 
grow." 
William Blake (1757-1827) 
A Poison Tree 

"ie~P-~O_i~n_t~------------------------------------------M_o_n_d_ay_,_s_ep_t_em__be_r_9_,_I_9s_s_-~p-a~ge___s 


Newly planned fountain offers many 'benefits' 
The architect's drawing appeared in lbe Observer without warning. The depicted columns and cross beams were clearly sketched. Next to the drawing, various mem­bers of the University described why the Uni­versity was constructing such a distinguished memohal to those who have died in war since World War II. 
Steve Safranek view from the limb 
"lbe next day, some students expressed their attitude toward the planned structure by stacking boxes in the Old Fieldhouse Mall. These boxes were arranged a'> a replacement of the planned structure in an attempt to save 

, the University more than half a million dollars. Such activity reveals that students at Notre Dame are not a'> apathetic a'> many say. In fact, students acted quite quickly when tlley saw what wa'> at stake (more than S'500,000 ). The structure depicted in The Observer 
readily revealed Notre Dame is not a parochial place. One ofthe published comments on the memorial said it would be similar to the Greek memorials to their dead. Another report said Notre Dame's memorial would be a tribute much like Stonehenge (a memorial to the Sun God). 
Since neither of these civilizations were 

Christian, and certainly not Catholic, this ad­
dition to Notre Dame is a tribute to our 
ecumenical spirit. It portrays Notre Dame's 
willingness to embrace pagan cultures and to 
be conformed to them. 
Various depreciating comments have been forthcoming from many quarters. Most of these comments have centered around the tremendous expenditure of money for what seems like a monstrosity. 
Such comments reveal that students fail to grasp another attribute of this memorial. just as the military has spent $'5,000 on a cof­feepot, Notre Dame is able to spend $500,000 on these stone columns. We are becoming chic. 
In a similar vein, as various states have spent hundreds of thousands of dollars decorating their highways with what they claim to be art, so too is Notre Dame decorating its quad­rangles. Thus, Notre Dame is showing its ability to· stay abreast of the current artistic fashion. 

Some of my fellow students do not under­stand this mentality. Their varied comments express a different attitude toward memorials. The suggestions they have given for a memoriai to our fallen heroes range from a chapel to a new building on campus dedicated to the fallen warriors. Or maybe the ·univer­sity could endow some faculty chairs· as a memorial. All ofthese alternatives surely were considered and rejected for "good" reasons ­reasons too profound for students to ap­preciate. 
These criticisms and comments about the new structure indicate that students fail to ap­preciate the practical benefits of the stone columns standing in a pool ofwater. 
Since the memorial will be located on the mall, students will pass it every day and be reminded of their fallen countrymen. Many of those students will be so touched by this memorial they wiU say a short prayer for the fallen. At the very least, the students will be forced to reflect on the horrors ofwar and the nuclear threat under which we all live, and because of which we all might die. 
Perhaps though, the best comment about this new structure was made by a student who noted the structure's stone material and flowing water. These attributes of the structure coupled with its proximity to the men's dormitories on the no~h quadrangle mandates that men walking back from Senior Bar or the Four Corners will pass directly by it. 
When they do so, they probably will not reflect on the fallen heroes, nor on the beauti­ful artistic" touches. But in a fit of need, they too will show their creativity and do what the early Christians did to so many pre-Christian buildings: they will transform it to suit their needs. 
Steve Safranek is a second-year law stu­dent and a regular VIewpoint columnist. 

A look at life at ND to depress the depressed 
Are you depressed? Are you feeling low, buddy? Do you find yourself stuck to your desk at the end of Introduction to Sleep (Theology)? Did that cute little number in Freshman Seminar make an obscene gesture when you winked at her? 
Brian Broderick sincerely yours 
Well, cheer up, lads and lassies. The Univer­sity of Notre Dahle presents "Stonehenge II." This monument, which obviously had to be built in the middle of a college campus, will soon grace our presence. Construction naturally should start at the beginning of the school year. What a moving experience it is to watch those trucks tear up sod (this is the same grass where we cannot fling a frisbee). The 40 feet of snow dumped annually on the Notre Dame campus should not hinder con­struction. 

So Isound a little bitter-I admit I was one of the multitude who used the "Stonehenge quad" to get to O'Shaughnessy to sweat out another philosophy class. 
World War II monuments are not your cup of tea? Get ready kiddies, it is only a few days until Notre Dame's "Faustball" season begins. 
Like the rest of you, I believe the football team will finish eleven and zero, win the Orange Bowl and capture the National Cham­pionship that so narrowly has eluded the team during the Faust years. Being ranked in the top 20 means many football analysts are under the same illusion. 
But wait -the team is basically free ofinjury, the freshman crop looked fantastic in practice, (wait until you see how good they look standing on the sidelines) and there are so many things going for this team that we just cannot lose. Please do not tell the University ofMiami or the University ofSouthern Califor­nia. 

Watching a talented football team play mediocre football does not excite you, either. Have faith, I sense a party could be happening. 
•'Hey girls, come to our 14 by 11 room for a party. We will have one red light and the rest of the room will be dark. Pretty cool, eh? Hey, you in the corner, do you want to dance? What do you mean there is not enough room? There are only 60 people in here. Hey buddy, could you put on that Talking Heads tune again? I hear after you have heard it 42 times it takes on special significance." 
This party is not very exciting. Our next 
Campus Comments:What was it like waiting for football tickets? 
' 
if ... 
~ 
-
It was like any concert. It was good. I had alot offriend'> around. I'll be out even earlier next year. 
Arrival time: 6:15a.m. 
Departure time: 3:18p.m. 
Kevin O'Connor Freshman Cavanaugh Hall 


It wa~n't that bad. We had people to relieve every hour. I love foot­ball. 
Arrival time: 9 a.m. Departure time: 3:22p.m. 
Vicky Rappold Freshman Farley Hall 


I thought I was going to be mugged: Cars came by honking their horns, harassing me and yel­ling "Hey, frosh." I want to be the first guy in line four years in a row. 
Arrival time: I :30 a.m. Departure time: 3: 1"4 p.m. 
TettyMullen 
Freshman 
Cavanaugh Hall 

I was listening to Bruce and that made the time pass by. 
Arrival time: II:30 a.m. Departure time: 3:32p.m. 

David DeVoe 
Freshman Moi'I'IMey Manor stop is off campus. This event will take you far 
away to some street named after a city larger 
than South Bend. Look, there are 200 times 
the amount of people here as in the dorm 
room. 
The party might last two or three hours 
depending on how fast the infamous decibel 
level rises. Luckily our hosts have informed 
the South Bend police ofthe party so they can 
break up the gathering. After all, I do not want 
to have too good ofa time. 
This does not mean I do not want to be invited to your next party. I even will see you at the next football game. Maybe we can climb over that darn fence. to get there. 
Brian Broderick Is a sophomore govern­ment and International relations major at the University ofNotre Dame. 

It was sweaty but fun. There were alot ofpeople. I hope the football season will be worth the wait. 
Arrival time: 6 am. Departure time: 3:15p.m. 
Booey Devereux 
Freshman 
Regina North 


The Observer--= 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer IS the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Sa1nt Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the adm1n1strallon of 811her InStitution. The news IS reported as accurately and objectively as pos­s•ble. Uns1gned ed•tonals represent the opinion ol a majority olthe Editorial Board. Commen­tanes. leners and the lrlSide Column present the views of their authors. "Column space is available to all members ol the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through leners. is encouraged. 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamihon Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan News Editor ................................... Keith Harrison Jr News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Saint Mary·s Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches Copy Chief .............................................. Frank lipo 
Operations Board 
Business Manager..... . .... Dav1d StepheOI!ch Controller .................. . ... Wilham J. H1ghducheck Advertising Manager ... . .............. Jim Hagan Systems Manager .. . Mark B. Johnson Production Manager.. ... John A. Men nell 
Founded November 3, 1966 

1 
1 
~ 
I 




Accent 

Monday, September 9, 1985-page 6 
George Rickey -a world-renowned artist co111es ho111e 


Cathyann Reynolds 
Art review 
A 
rtists often live in a different 
world than Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's students, especially 
engineers. But internationally­
known artist George Rickey has two 
things in common with these 
campuses. One, he has lived in 
South Bend. And two, Rickey has an 
interest in the mechanical, physical 
world. 
"I've made sculptures for the 
satisfaction or completion ofa 
problem," said Rickey. "Planned 
indeterminacy is a component of 
my sculpture." The 78-year-old 
artist, who is internationally ac­
claimed for his kinectic sculpture, 
returned to his birthplace last week 
for the exhibit "George Rickey in 
South Bend." 
Ifyou have wondered about the 
seemingly floating steel sculptures 
on Notre Dame's or Saint Mary's 
campus (in O'Shaughnessy cour­
tyard and in front ofLeMans, for 
example), they are pan ofthe five­
location exhibit at the South Bend 
Art Center, the Snite Museum, Saint 
Mary's Hammes Gallery, Indiana 
University at South Bend, and 
Rickey's childhood home on West 
Washington Street. 
For the Snite exhibit Rickey 
chose sculptures that were con­
structed using principals ofen­
gineering. "At the Snite there are 
four or five drawings that use 
elementary theories ofphysics," he 
said. "Two Conical Segments 
Gyratoory Gyratory II" has large 
curved segments that twist in the 
air. 
Also in the Snite exhibit, "Two 
Open Rectangles Horizontal," "Two 
Open Rectangles Excentric," and 
"Four Open Rectangles Excentric" 
use repetitions ofthe same basic 
shapes. These sculptures at first 
look the same, but become different 
as they move in the wind. 
Close by is a photograph ofa 
similar sculpture outside a building 
that shows these themes in a much 
larger scale. Rickey said he con­
sidered "small to big" when plan­
ning Notre Dame's exhibit. 
The Hammes exhibit features jewelry and small sculptures made for Rickey's wife Edith as well as figurative drawings. "Where the girls are, why not adornment?" Rickey joked. One set ofearrings and complementary necklace that Rickey calls "Two lines with spirals" wouldn't be worn with the familar polos and plaids ofthe day. But this jewelry might suit the dresser ofLondon's or Amsterdam's styles. According to one acquain­tance, Edith Rickey herselfenjoys wearing these hammered gold sculptures that would protrude about four inches from the ear and neck ofthe wearer. 
Referring to the "Four L's Ex­centric" in Lake Marion at Saint Mary's, Rickey said "I made two of those, one's in London." This sculpture is four steel sculptures resting on different levels just above the water that move with the wind. Their distinct reflections in the water create a multi­dimensional effect. 
Unlike expressive artists, Rickey preconceives all his sculptures. In 1949 (after 20 years ofpainting) Rickey says that he "embarked on an an of motion in which every object had to be preconceived. Yet, in spite of the preconception, I wanted the motion to be unpredic­table. So I rejected motors; only air currents could provide the energy." 

Rickey's interest in things mec­hanical can be traced to his youth, when after moving from South Bend at the age ofsix, he spent a great deal oftime at the shipyards in Glasgow, Scotland. Rickey also remembers his grandfather, the one clockmaker in Athol, Mass., who could make the village clock run. 
Rickey says, "I design what I want." But he employs "an engineer for anything that is concerned with safety." His engineer calculates the extent and types ofdamages pos­sible ifthe steel sculpture falls from high winds. The engineer also helps determine correct thicknesses for the steel shafts and walls. But it is Rickey who has learned to weld, massage, adjust and balance his steel pieces which are only a thousandth ofan inch thick. 
Rickey explains that "whatever diverse mechanical devices I con­trived, I was always dealing with the very ancient device -the pendulum -whose movements through time and space are a compromise of force and freedom." 
The exhibit opened formally at the South Bend Art Center Thursday. Saturday heralded Rickey's return with an evening banquet. 
Rickey's major exhibitions have been at The Corcoran Gallery ofArt in Washington D.C., The Guggen­heim Museum in New York City, The Walker Art Center in Min­neapolis, Neue Nationalgalerie in West Berlin, and the Stades Museum in Frankfurt. 
He has Written many articles and essays, the most famous ofwhich is "Constructivism: Origins and. Evolu­tion," published in 1968. Construc­tivism was an art movement ofthe 1920s concerned with science and technology and with the concrete rather than the abstract. 
Photos by Paul Cifarelli 
1
1 
t} 

There will be a meeting for anyone interested in writing 


FEATURES 
for Ihe Obsen!er~= 
Wednesday, Sept. 11 at 8 p.m. in the Observer office. 
For more information contact Mary Healy at the Observeroffice, 239-5313. 
--~ ---~­
Monday, September 9, 1985 -page 7 

B Oken,By a slim 91, ND and SMC break
r .the world record for musical chairs 
Phil Wolf 
features staffwriter 

T 
hey start when they are about 
six years old. They spend hours 
practicing alone in the hasement, 
and they are the terror ofthe 
birthday party circuit. They dream 
ofsomeday going to Notre Dame to 
compete with the best. 
They are collegiate musical 
chairs playt·rs, and they are not a 
pretty lot. 
They asssemhle by the thousands 
on the outskirts ofcollege 
campuses to play their controver­
sial game. They display a blatant 
disrespect for the rules of the game 
as they run, dive. push and dhow 
their way into history. 
And now tht.·y have brought a 
national championship to Notre 
Danlt·. No, make that the world 
championship. Imagine: Notre 
Darnt·. Ind., the muskal t·hairs capi­
tal of the univer:.e. The subway 
alumni will be tlocking to the 
campu,s and buying musical chairs 
parapht·rnalia hy the bundle. The 
hook.\tore already ha.' contracts 
with t·ornpanies to stock official 
Fi!(luing Irish musi<:al chairs hel­
mets. dhow pads and T-shirt.,. The 
possibilities are almost endless. 
Ofcourse, there are those who do not approve of the sport, par­ticuhtrly at a Catholic institution su<.·h as Notre Dame. They attack the musical chairs establishment for corrupting the minds of the future leadt·rs ofour country and our Church. They say that the players art· too competitive, that the sport has lost its fun aspect. They claim that collegiate musical chairs has become hig business. They ques­tion tht· evil connotations of the "snakt·" pattern ust•d for the large contt·sts. 
But still the game goes on. 
Olkn, we here at Notre Dame think that we are somehow immune from the evils that can accompany t'olkgiatt· athletics. But la.'t Friday afternoon, <;,I'; I people, most of them students, a.'isemhled on Green Field for a game of musical chairs that la.'ited into the night. And the administration of this fine Univer­sity lt•t them get away with it. 
In fact, some bigwig ad· 
ministrators served as judges while 
the students attempted to bash each 
other's brains out for the coveted 
prize ofa color television, provided 
hy none less than that grey-haired, 
green-dad group known as the 
Notre Dame Alumni Association. 
How could this have happened at 
Notre Dame? 

"We thought musical chairs would he fun," said Jim Domagalski, the leader of the musical chairs movement at Notre Dame. "It's kind ofa college thing to do, trying to play musical chairs with 5,000 people." 
Just imagine what the administra­tion is going to do when it dis­covers that almost 6,000 students had fun last Frid;~y night. Bye-bye musical chairs. 
And what about all of those MC addicts who will be out on the streets? Never again will they he able to enjoy a simple game of musical chairs with only 200 people. They always will be trying to organize bigger and bigger groups to play the game. Society is not equipped to deal with these junkies and the chaos they may cause. 
Sure, they're mostly freshmen, but not all of them. Twelve ofthe top 16 finishers last Friday may have been rookies, but certainly all 5,1 5 I were not first-year players. 
How can we excuse the actions of"responsible" upperclassmen such as Domagalski and his counter· part at Saint Marfs, Michelle Coleman? How can we explain the involvement ofevery class govern­ment, the student body govern­ment, the Student Activities Board and the Student Activities Office? What about the commercial spon· sors, Domino's Pizza, Coca-Cola and WZZP Radio? Will they soon be offering endorsement contracts to the top players, who are practically babies, coming out ofhigh school? 
These questions, and many ot­hers. must be answered. And soon. And now that Notre Dame holds the world record, will the Guinness 

People recognize it? Or will they 
ignore it a.'i they have ignored 
Bookstore Basketball, the world's 
largest basketball tournament? 
Whatever Guinness says, 
however, there still are problems to 
be dealt with on campus. Like the 
case ofwinner Bill Brosnan, a Flan­
ner freshman who now spends 
hours a day wasting away in front of 
his new color television. Rumor has 
it that Brosnan will be on the col· 
legiate MC circuit soon, but the 
Notre Dame ticket office says it will 
not provide students with the op­
portunity to get tickets to any of the 
away events. 
Then there is Carrie Deane, a Saint Mary's freshman who now is wired permanently to her new personal stereo, her prize for a second-place finish. She says she was just out there Friday to have fun, but anyone who was there knows better. 
This musical chairs thing has gone too far. Something has got to be done before Domagalski and his henchmen branch out into pin the tail on the donkey. Soon the whole campus may he eating cake and ice cream three meals a day. Surely, this sort ofactivity must stop. 

-

t 
---------------·---·-.. 





Sports Briefs 
The ND hockey team wilt be meeting today at 5 
p.m. in the football auditorium in the ACC. All players should attend. 
-The Observer 

The off-campus soccer team will be practic­ing today and tomorrow at 6 p.m. on the Stepan Fields. Anyone who is interested may attend. For more information, call Buddy at 289­4242. -The Observer 
The ND Squash Club will conduct a beginner's clinic tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the gallery courts in the ACC. Anyone who is interested may attend. For more information, call William Mapother at 283-3451. -Tbe Observer 
The ND TaeKwonDo Club will begin practice tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the fencing gym in the ACC (Gate 4). Mem­bers should bring a t-shirt and warm-ups. For more information, call Kerry at 288-5440.-The Observer 
The ND indoor and outdoor track teams will be meeting on Wednesday at 4:30p.m. in the football auditorium in the ACC. All prospective team members must attend. ­The Observer 
The ND Men's Volleyball Club will hold tryouts on Wednesday and Thursday from 9 p.m. to 11 p.m. in the ACC Pit. Anyone who is interested must attend both nights. • The Observer 
NVA softball deadlines have been extended for both the co-ree and 16-inch competition. All rosters are due by Wed­nesday in the NVA office. -The Observer 
Monday, September 9, 1985 -page 8 
Interhall soccer rosters are due in the NVA office by Wednesday. An entry fee of $25 must accompany each hall's roster. -The Observer 
Graduate touch football teams of six ptayers each may register as a department until Wednesday at the NVA office In the ACC. -The Observer 
An open water polo tournament will be held by NVA. Teams of 10 players (with at least four women) may register by Wednesday by paying a Sl 0 fee at the NVA office in the ACC. -The Observer 
An outdoor volleyball tournament will be held by NVA. Teams of at least nine players may register until Wednesday at the NVA office in the ACC. The limit for this elimina­tion tournament is 32 teams. -The Observer 
A scramble golf tournament wm be held by NVAon Sunday, Sept. I 5. Students, faculty and staff may register as individuals or pairs. The deadline for submitting $4 greens fees to the NVA office is Wednesday.-The Observer 
More NVA information is available by catling 239­
6100 or by stopping by the NVA office in the ACC. -The Observer 
0 bserver Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor ofLafortune. Briefs should be submitted on the forms available at the office, and every briefmust include the phone number ofthe person submitting it. -The Observer 
Soccer 
continuedjrompage 12 

players should be valuable to the team. 
Completing the team are fresh­men Ellen Boyle, Bridget Coneys, Mary Crawford, Becky Davis, Therese Harrington and Anne Pec­hous. 
As sponsor of the varsity sport, Saint Mary's handles the team's ex­penses and its scheduling. Accord­ing to Akers, when soccer was a club sport, the College funded only a por­tion of the expenses. Student Ac­tivities and the athletic department also contributed to the soccer club, but the players and their parents were responsible for transportation and uniform costs. 
The team's varsity status allows them to compete wholly against inter-collegiate teams, producing a more demanding schedule than those of previous seasons. 
"We play some of the best women's collegiate teams in the Midwest, including Indiana, Mic­higan State, Wisconsin-Milwaukee and Marquette," said Akers. 
Such a schedule requires long practices and intense training. Team members have been practicing daily for two weeks and have scrimmaged with other soccer teams. 
"I think we have the potential skill-wise to play with these schools," Akers said. "Whether we have the physical strength and the stamina, there's no telling right now. 
We  can  compete  with  them,  
though."  
The  Belles  begin  their  season  

tomorrow at Angela Field when they play host to Notre Dame. Game time is 4:30p.m. 
The Obserr•er Notre Dame offin·. locatnl on the third Ooor of l.al'ortum· Studem Center. an:epts clas,.;tkd a<..ln·rtisin~ from') a.m until t p m.. \ton<.Ja,· throuf!,h frida\· The Ohserr·er '>aint .\tan·, ollie.-. located on the rlurd floor of Ha~~ar Coli<-~.-Cemer. acn·pts classifit-d' from 12. ~0 p m until -~p.m .. \ton· day though Frida\ lkadlim· lilf m·xt·da\ da"ilinh is -~ p m .\II dassifkd' mu't ht· prepaid. either in pn,on or In· mail ( .hargt· ;, llltTnh rwr fin·t·harac·



Classifieds
. --.. 
ters er dav. 
BOOK BAG MIX-UPII IF YOU GRABBED LARGE 5 ROOM APARTMENT-1/HALF Wil PlY your next eemeeter'e book bil (or NEED 2 GA FOR EITHER ARMY OR WANTED: PARTY ANIMAL WHO CAN THE WRONG BOOK BAG FROM UN­BATHS,2 BEDROOMS,307 HIU name your price) for 4 Or 5 uac G.A.e. USC. CALL B08, 234-8008 AFTER 5 PM WNTE. The Obee<ver Accent eeclion
NOTICES I· 

DER ONE OF THE OUTOOOA TABLES STREET -$400. INCLUDES UTIUTIES­Cll4112. 
needl a 21-year-old lo r-chand write AT THE BOOKSTORE ON WED. 8/28, CALL 233-0187 
HELP -MY PARENTS HAVE AIRLINE ita new ~column, lhe Bar Beat. For 
I'VE GOT YOUR BAG. MY BAG WAS NEED MICHIGAN STATE TIX BADLY! RESERY,t,TIONS FOR PARENT'S tnformetion contact Mary Healy 11 The THE SAME AS YOURS, EXCEPT THAT CALL MIKE ]288-5355 WEEKEND • NOW ALL THEY NEED Obee<ver, 23&-5313. MINE WAS EMPTY AND YOURS HAD A 
ARE 2 G.A.·s FOR THE ARMY GAME looking for qulllified etudent employ-. WANTEDThe Notre Deme Computing Center ie 
PACK OF TEABERRY GUM AND AN DESPERATE! I NEED 10 GA'S FOR MONEY IS OF NO OBJECT• CALL ELK COUNTY SAVINGS PEN IN IT. IF NAVY GAME! SS$ PLEASE CALL JULIE 
See Kelly H1vena for more deleill. LAURINE AT 4224. 
YOU EVER WANT TO SEE YOUR GUM 
284-4317. ......................... 
A«enlion!! All pur, preunl, and lulure AND YOUR PEN AGAIN, CALL 2280.
S1o-$360 Weekly/Up Mli~ng CircuM! NEED UIC T1CKETII WILLING TO progr.aivea!!The Progr~ve MuSic 
THANKS!! wanted 2 gu 10 any home Qllm• call ANY HOME
TRADE OTHER 272-3491No ~/quotut Sincerely int-ted Club wiN be holding ita lirsl organizational 
GA'S(OTHER THAN MSU) FOR SOUT­on
rulh Mlf-ICI«.-8d envelope: Dept. AM-Need 2-4 MSU GA'I for my boii!Help me meeltng Tueedly, September 10 II
FiewAR"O:IiewAiiO::iiewAfioiii.i:os:r; 
HERN CAL. GA'S. CALL J.G. AT 3526. OLYMPUS Autofocue Clmera IIIII Sat. ATTENTION: NOTRE DAME AND HOLY 7CEO, PO Box 830, Woodlloek, lL Save my job! call Scott at x1803 6:30pm in Llfortune·a Lottie Theetre. 
600118. Don't IOflllllo brtng your $5.00 du11 pay­
night (8/31) 11 N.D. Apll. pllly. I wil PlY CROSS STUDENTS POSITONS ment!!
NEED MICH ST STUD TIX. CALL JIMbig bueka for Ita return or info leading to ita OPENED MONDAY, WEDNESDAY,
TYPING AVAIL.ASLE 14611
return. If you have it and wonl return it, AND FRIDAYS 11AM TO 1:30 PM.
287-4082 . HAPPY BIRTHDAY LORI BENOY'!!!! 
PERSONALS

could you at 1...1Mnd me the film? Jull APPLY IMMEDIATELY AT ST. MARY'S HELP! Need 2 MSU GAl. Wil tr-MISS 21 y..,. ago lodly, our dear L.B. Sue flip the llwitch on the bottoo,' of your new DINING HALL EOE. 
TYPING CALL CHRia 2S4-IIf7 or LSU, or PlY$$$. ED 1857 wu born -10 go by 203 Lewis & give lhe 
cemera to rewind it, open It, and ITIIil it to ···················-···· ............................. 
................................................................ birthdly girl a big birthdly kiu!!l! 
225 Flinner. Ita the !Mat you could do in NO Prof. -reeponlible etudent to 
Your only oblig.lion in any Iiieli me r.turn for the nice gift. help with houeeworl<, etTII'Idl one fuM or SAVE SSS ON YOUR TEXTS!! USED HUMICANE !!LANA atJIIVIVEM 
CI.A8S BOOKS BOUGHT AND SOlD. willing to Mil 11M pOIIellione for 111-ialo be true to youreelf. KRISTIN? Whll ARE you doing here? 
two half dlye a week. 3 blocl<a from -Richard Beth, INusions

PRESENT THIS AD AND RECEIVE AN aTATI! TlCkETa Ill ... CAU. PAT Glad you could make it before leavtng for 
campue. $25.00. Ext. 7659 or 5212.

EXTAA $5 OFF OF $50 PURCHASE. FOUND: BASKETBALL OUTSIDE OF Rome. ENJOYfLuv, Karen 
2018 
PANDORA'S BOOKS 937 SO. BEND STEPAN COURTS LAST WEEK. CALL CARPOOL KZOO/NO FLEX
AVE, 233-2342. 1651 TO IDENTIFY. NEED 1 MICHIGAN ST TIX !II Sru or GA. Hey ME, TO THE STUNNING YOUNG LADY IN 
HR~616)279-5717 OR LV MSG IN LAW 

THE SMC "BRAR LOUNGE: YOU SURE Clll1562 What do you mean?
SCHOOL MAILBOX 

LOll: Notre D1me cllu ring, antiqued CAUGHT MY EYE TH. NIGHT, BUT I
I'm alwaye up! 

gold with red etone. MEH '86 ie inecribed DIDN'T CATCH YOUR NAME. YOU
MBNEED TIX FOR MICH STATE(3) B08

Ride lllldld to Univldity of Mileouri, on ineidl. If found pleue call Miry at LEFT TOO SOON! WHO ARE YOU? -A
UNCLE UllWANTS YOUIJJ Columbi• or St. Louie on ~; r.tum, 8-1367. SHY GUY 1751 ToGtve Up aome Anny G.A.'e OAR HOUSE: COLO BEER & LIQUOR.
28. Cll 2661 , IIIII nights. 

Be All You Cln Be CARRY 0' IT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N., 1 
And Call Sammy at 20n or 2076 The en~re city of Piqua, Ohio is coming 
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. EXPERT TYPING 2n-s534 AFTER 5:30 (We offer caah, experience, and tr111el op­out to IH ND plly Michi(lln Stile. They Ire willing to trade in their wh ..collec­
portunitill.) PLI!A8E HELP-I NEED 3 G.A.'I TO
Lavn of llllly unite! The ND/SMC Club ~on ol Slim Whitman albu<M to buy tick­
L,__FO_R_R_EN_T------~11.___FO_R_S_A_LE___.. 
THE ARMY GAME OCT. 11 AND I 
IWII milia thil Wed. at 7:15 p.m. in eta. Pleue help them. 11"1 not often lheae
G.A:a TO IISU Dfl MIUIUIPPI. IF 
Lalortune Utile Th-.. SperiMIO people gel out of Ohio.
YOU CAN HELP, CAU.IIELATM».
FOR SALE, ONE WAY TICKET TO Ll

vldllvllll Female roommete needed. $85 mo. I NEED TWO GA'S TO THE MSif Call Amy at 2311-5303 Of 272-9519. 
MACGARTHER AIRPT., GOOD UNTILCloH to campue. Call272-2478 GAME.CALL 2752 AFTER 5:00PM Wordprocllling12 OCT., CALL 4083, 

MITA 
Call Dolor• 2n-6045

RAU.Y AGAINST STARVAT10N Nice lumilhed houll good neighborhOOd I DESPERATELY NEED MANY MSU
Car epknt-round inmount,).way-Pi~

Wldnleday 11:30pm approx.1 mlfllnorthofN02n·31104/~ TICKETS CALL MIKE 1476 
TS-168, Pion-TS-1655 Mlrtwe 2n­


8888. ................................................................
HAPPY 1111h BIRTHDAY, TONY TACO! NEED .... ONE STUD. TIC FOR MIC­WE LOVE YOU-YOUR LIL' SIS'S 
WELCOME BACK CILL Y I MISSED YOU Female roommete needed at Campue 
HIGAN STATE GAME! CALL 1708: ASK 
View Apta. Pleue call272-t704 11180 toyota celiCI 2dr 5 epeed clean bot­································································ oeBiiie·:····w·EA·E····-vau.....iilie:t:i<iN'a
FOR JOHN. 
HAWAII CLUB IIEIIBEMHIP
ltolfer 298-0150.

LOST/FOUND I 0840 
PARIETALSMEETING 

WANT ROOMATE TO SHARE EX­MON, SEP 9 AT 6:30PM IN LEWIS HALL PENCES IN LOCATION NEAR N.D. 238 PARTY ROOM (IN THE BASEMENn IF REWARO-REWARO-REWARD­5144 ASK FOR BETH PLEASE, I'M DESPERATE! IT'S MY YOU CAN'T COME, CALL DAVID AT L06T AMETHYST and GOLD BEADED BIRTHDAY ON THE 21et ·SELL ME 6 
Ute ie but a dreem BRACELET. GREAT SENTIMENTAL ROOMMATE WANTED. IRISH HILLS MICH. ST. G.A.'S AND YOU'LL BE VALUE TC MElt IF FOUND, PLEASE APT. FURNISHED, CALL 281-8895, JIM INVITED TO THE PARTY!! PLEASE 288-5440 OR ANDREW AT 1387 
JANE "WILMA" BAJC IS 20 TODAY, CALL GRETCHEN, AT 32118. TICKETS CALL ANNE 284-5048 
WILL WE SEE A FUU MOON? FI!IIALE ltOOIIIIATEI WANTI!D AT 
, iOPiiOiiOR!I·;r.:iili.iiul·:iiii·:ra·ii·o;; 
LOSTIII 3 KEYS ON COIN PURSE NOTIII! DAIII! APTa-CALL ANNI! AT HELP! MY PARENTS WILL KILL ME IF I 
Ill CHAIN. IT'S BLACK AND RELATIVELY 2100 011 attiRLI!Y AT 2JWI47 DON'T GET THEM 2 GA'S FOR MIC­
Tix $12 include lranepo, lodging & party­NORMAL LQOI(ING. PULLEASE FINO HIGAN STATE. I'M DESPERATE! CALL 
Need 1 ot 2 Mlch St Tix. Cll Bil3515. $$ ing wlfrata, tlilgater. Leave Fri 5 pmIT FOR ME!! CALL PAULA AT 3570 IF Mature grad etudent with comforl8bll fur­no object. 284-4318. $$SSS 
Return after g.me (no g.me tix provided).
FOUND. nllhed :Hiedroom home in pt-..1 
Tix on lale etarting Mon ] Soph Clal Hey,
neighborhOOd 1 3/4 milll from campue HELP! HELP! delpatately need one or Office 4-9 pm. PAJITY WITH '8811 
How much fun does ahe have in thcee 
LOST; IMck t1pe C1H with COllection of dllirll two houlemllll to lh•e quiet, two ticl<eta to MSU Qllrne ccet no iiiUe! HELP SAVE A LIFE. I need 2 ARMY 
drea<M? Just curioua. /love you. 
-and • redio edlptor . If found, fnencly, non-emoking environment. $140 Call Dave at 2048 G.A.e If you are • true fif ...ver, Clft Pele '*'Kathy at 283-311110. per month, ptue utititi11. Cll 232-8327 2448 va·····iFF····wHAT oa ··vou..··wA·Nr
-
a.lyot..ll. 

I need 2 and/ot4 GA'a lot Michigan State NOW? 
701 GRACE GUYS AND THE GOD: HE'S 
I need Michlg.n State GA 'e If you cen help LOST: One blue NO box. loll from Flin­OFFICE SPACE (IDEAL FOR ATTOR-call Stan at 2341 An!Nlioli······c;;;;;:c;iii·;;u·a······a:ru:
• 1001'1 • I)OIIible. Call Mike at 1808 BRAVE TOO! BUT HE DOESN'T WALK 
GIRLS HOME. 

ner H ..viCinitill. The bole c:onl8ined per­NEY)740 SQ.FT.-OFF-STREET 
Need 4 MSU tickets. 283-1840 DENTI NEWSLETTERS AVAILA8LE -~-and l>ooke. Very interlllld in PARKING-BUSY DOWNTOWN NEED 3 MICH. ST. TIX FOR FUTURE AT LA FORTUNE AND APARTMENT MARY SUE-HAPPY BIRTHDAY! Yourell'llting the peraorlll illml beck. Any info LOCATIC>N-307 HIU STREET-DOMERS, STUD. OR GA'S. CALL MIKE 
Need 4 GA'S FOR ARMY GAMEl! MAILBOXES QUESTIONS CALL not jailblil anymore! Your search ie«**John at 1223. R-dolllrld. CALL:233-0187 FOR MORE INFO. AT 1655. 
PLEASE CALL 272-451tO BEAVER 234-2275 over ... JOHNNY 'JOEL' 
····································.···························· 

The Observer Monday, September 9, 1985 -pageS 

Stams, Monahan, Taylor must fill 
NFL Standings 
shoes of Smith and Brooks in 1985 
NAnONAL CONFERENCE AMEIIICAN CONFERENCE 
w L T Pet. PF PA w L T Pet. 

N.Y G1an11 I 0 01.000 21 0 N-England 1 0 01.000 Sl. LOUII 1 0 01.000 27 24 Buffalo 0 1 0 .000 Dallaa 0 0 0 .000 0 0 Indianapolis 0 1 0 .000 Wulunglon 0 0 0 .000 0 0 Miami 0 0 .000 Philadelphia 0 1 0 .000 0 21 N.Y. Jeta 0 0 .000 
Connl Connl 
Chicago 1 0 01.000 38 28 Houlton 1 0 01.000 Detroll 1 0 01.000 28 27 Piltaburgh 1 0 01.000 Mmneeota 1 0 01.000 28 21 Cincinnati 0 1 0 .000 Green Bay 0 1 0 .000 20 26 Cleveland 0 1 0 .000 Tampa Bay 0 1 0 .000 28 38 WMI 
WMI KanauCity 1 0 01.000 
L.A. Ramo 1 0 01.000 20 16 L.A. Raiders 1 0 01.000 AHanta 0 1 0 .000 27 28 San Diego 1 0 01.000 N-Orleana 0 1 0 .000 27 47 Seattle 1 0 01.000 San F ranc1eco 0 1 0 .000 21 Denver 0 1
28 0 .000 
YMterdlty'aiiMulla DetrOit 28. Allanta 27 N-England 26, Greer~ Bay 20 P1tllburgh 45, lndlanapolio 3 KarwM Clty 47, N-Ooleana 27 Houlton 26. Miam1 23 N-Vorl< Gianta 21. Philadelphia 0 Sl. Lou1127. Cleveland 24. OT M1nnt11011 28, San FranciiCO 21 Seattle 26. C1nc~nnat1 24 Ch1cago 38. Tampa Bay 28 San Ouogo 14, Buffalo 9 Loa Aroge!M Ramo 31. N-Yorl< Jeta 0 


PF  PA  By LARRY BURKE  
26 9  20 14  AssistantSports Editor  
3  45  
23  26  It's bad enough when a team loses  
0  31  one four-year letterman at  a posi­ 
26  23  tion, but the 1985 Irish face the un­ 
45 24 24  3 28 27  enviable situation of trying to replace a pair of reliable four-time  
47 31  27 0  monogram winners at the fullback spot this year.  
14  9  Over the past couple of seasons, 
28 16  24 20  Chris  Smith  and  Mark  Brooks  
formed a fullback tandem that was a  
more  important part of the Notre  
Dame  offense  than  most  people  
realize. Their rushing numbers were  
hardly overwhelming, but the stats  
don't reflect their consistent success  
as  short-yardage  runners  and  as  
blockers for tailback Allen Pinkett,  
who rambled for  1,241 yards last  
season.  
This year  the  task of replacing  
Smith and Brooks falls in large part  
to sophomore Frank Starns, who'll  



HHIIIHII...IIIIII...IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII.......HIIIIIIIHIIIIHIIIHIIIIIIIIIIHHIIIIIIIIHIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHHIIHI 
BANKING••• 
ON CAMPUS AT SAINT MARY'S 
1st Source Bonk's office, located ot Saint Mary's College in Haggar College Center, offers free checking to Saint Mary's and Notre Dome students and faculty In addition, this office bnngs you the convenience of 24 bonking 
locations to serve you I 
Banking Hours-Monday through Friday 
Mon. thru Thurs. -11:30 a.m.-3:30p.m. Friday -11:00 a.m.-4:00p.m. ~source 
Join Michiono's 1stTeom ~Bank 
Member F.D.I.C.

for unsurpassed bonking service! 
........H ..IIHMI....HIIIIHIHHII.....HIIIHIHHIINHIIHIIHHIIH..........HIHHIHHIIIIIII...IIHIIIIIIIIHHHH....II.......... 
EVEN STRAIGHT/iS cAN•T 
HELP IF YOU FWNK TUITION. 
Tcxlay, the toughest thing about going to college is findirl.g_the money to pay for it. But Army Rare can help-two ways! 
First, you can apply for an ArmyRare scholarship. It covers tuition, books, and supplies, and pays you up to $1,000 each school year it's in effect. 
But even if you're not a scholarship rPrlnl•"'nt ROTC can still with finanoial assis~ tance-upto$1,000 a year for your last two years in the program. 
For more information, contact your Professor of 
M=~ce. 
BlALLlOU CAN Bl. 
"Interested? Call Capt. Domingo at 239-6264" 
get help from senior Tom Monahan and junior Pernell Taylor. Both Starns and Monahan earned monograms last season, but that was mainly for special teams contribu­tions. 

Pernell Taylor 
"We don't ha.ve as much ex­
perience at the fullback position as 
we do at some others, but we think 
that people like Starns will do what 
needs to be done," says Coach Gerry 
Faust. "They don't have to be super­
stars, they just have to get the job 
done." 
At 6-4 and 229 pounds, Starns has 
the physical tools to get the job 
done. The coaches like his blocking 
ability, and feel that his speed will 
help him become a dependable ball­
carrier. Running back coach Mal 
Moore says he has been pleased with 
the progress Starns has made since 
the end oflast season 
Canyouaffordtogamble
with the LSAT, GMAT 
GRE,orMCAT? 
Probably not. Great grades 
alone may not be enough to 
impress the grad school of 
your choice. 
Scores play a part. And 
thafs how Stanley H. Kaplan 
can help. 
The Kaplan course teaches 
test-taking techniques, reviews 
course subjects, and increases 
the odds that you'll do the best 
you cando. 
So if you've been out of 
school for a while and need a 
refresher, or even if you're fresh 
out of college. do what over 1 
miUion students have done. 
Take Kaplan. Why take !
a chance with your 
career? 

KAPLAN 
•The world's leading 
"Frank has improved himself since last year to earn the st2rting job," says Moore. "He had a hamstr­ing pull from the Aloha Bowl game that affected him for spring drills. But he really made progress during the tail end of the spring." 
Monahan is a former walk-on who was awarded a scholarship last spring. At 5-10 and 210 pounds, he lacks Starns' size, but the coaches like his toughness. 
Having rebounded from two years of injury problems, Taylor figures to see some playing time as well. The 5-11, 216-pound junior suffered torn knee ligaments in August of 1983 and was forced to sit out his entire rookie season. After a lengthy rehabilitation, he appeared to have made a full recovery and came back in impressive fashion last spring. If he and Monahan continue their progress, the Irish could have suffi­cient depth at the fullback spot. 
But only time will tell if the cur· rent trio can effectively replace Smith and Brooks. 
·.:;;....~--.......,.. 
FrankStams 

"Chris and Mark were two very capable athletes and experienced players so we'll obviously miss them," notes Moore. "As f.u as our current group is concerned, they've made progress and there's still room for improvement. So we're not going to change our offensive approach with respect to the fullback situa­tion. This group hasn't really been in the 'big game' situations, but we still expect them to respond." 
EXfRA POINTS -Irish pr2Ctice without pads today, then go back to regular schedule for tomorrow, Wednesday, and Thursday, before heading to Ann Arbor Friday after­noon. . . Injury situation for Mic­higan game is favorable, with only Mike Griffin expected to be out of action for the contest. . . Michigan game will be televised nationally by CBS, with kickoff slated for 12:40 
p.m. South Bend time. 


test prep organization. 
Thanks toyou... 

SOUTH BEND AREA 
it works...

Stanley H. Kaplan Ed. Ctr. 1717 E. South Bend Ave. 
forALLOFUS 

South Bend, Indiana 46637 
(219)' 272-4135 
• UnlliadW.U 



The Observer 

Volleyball 
continuedfrom page 12 
and blocking game with much more confidence and success, helped in large part by the efforts of Ben­nington. 
Unfortunately for the Irish, Ken­tucky responded with an 8-1 run to put the score at 9-5 in favor of the Wildcats. 
It was then Notre Dame's turn to rally, as it evened the score at 9-9 be­hind the serving of Kathleen Morin. The Irish could do no better, however, as Kentucky scored the last six points to win the third game, 15-9, and complete its sweep. 
While understandably upset over his team's performance, Lambert praised the play of Bennington. 
"Tracy played well," he said. "She was really the only bright spot on the team tonight." 
Lambert stressed the importance of the group coming together soon, since the schedule only gets toug­her. 

Tennis 
continuedfrom page 12 
The Belles were up agianst Mar­quette on Sunday, and at the No. 1 singles match Dimberio lost to op­ponent VanLieshort 1-6, 3-6 while Boyd was slammed by Lohr 0-6, 1-6. Drahota was defeated by Ploetz 4-6, 0-6 and teammate Heratz was shut­out in two sets, 0-6, 0-6, by Mar­quette's Janusonis. To wrap things up, Campbell and Szajko both fell 
Monday, September 9, 1985-page 1.0 
short of a victory with 0-6, 1 ,6 and 1-6, 3-6 losses against Foote and Murray at the number-five and six singles spots, respectively. 
"In the Marquette singles matches, the girls knew they were good and that they had the shots," Laverie pointed out. "Keeping confi­dent when you are behind is the key." 
Dimberio and Boyd could not bounce back against Marquette's VanLieshout and Murray, the number-one doubles team. and were defeated by a score of 1:6, 3-6. 
" We have to work together and know each others games," said Dim­berio, a freshman from Ft. Wayne. "Our team is young and for our first collegiate match, we played well," added freshman teammate Boyd. 
Drahqta and Heratz feU short to Lohr and Janusonfs 0,6, 1-6 while the Belles' Campbell and Szajko could not volley to a win against Marquette's Foote and Ploetz and lost by a score of 4-6, 0-6 in doubles competition. 
.Choosing a long distance companyis a lot like choosing 


a roommate. 

Living together with someone for the·first time can be an "educational" experience.. 
Andliving with a long distance'company isnlany·different. Because some companies may not give fOU all the services· you're used to ~~tting from AT&T. 
For instance, with some companies you have to spend a certain amount before you qualify for· their special volume discounts.With some others, voice q·uality may vary. 
But when you choose AT&T, there wQn't be any surprises when you move in. You'll get the same high-quality, trouble-free service you're used to. 
With calls that sound as close as next door. Guaranteed 60% and 40% discounts off our Day Rate-so yoti can t-alk during the times you can relax. Immediate credit for wrong numbers. Operator assistance and collect calling. 
So when you're asked to choose along dis­tance company, choose AT&T. Because whether you're into Mozart or metal, quality is the one thing everyone can agree on. Reach out and touch someone~ 
©1985 AT&T Communications 


r-----------~-----------------------------.....
1 

~4CJtt:JlC3l~------------------------------------------M·o•n•d•a•y•,S•e•p•t•em
__b_e_r_9_,1_9_8_5_-_P_a_g_e_l_l 
8:00p.m.  16  NBC  Monday  Night  at  the  
Movies: "Love Child"  
22  Kate and Allie  
28  NFL  Monday  Night  Football:  
Washington at Dallas  

46  Ught and Uvely  
28  Newsw:uch 28  
46  Pral~ the Lord  
16  Late Night with  David Lener­ 
man  


Bloom County 
... &IC1.06e/? 1.5 A SN!IfSif()T 

'P£111? Mlt.O 1/NP GIIN&, 
Of W liN/? MY NeW 

11M HAVING WONPeKffl(. 
't=KICNP' JQfNe AT liN 
CXCU/5/VE" ~17iEIIT IN

11Me HEKe INN~ ~KK... 
Zeto 
ACROSS 1 Passenger ship 6 While or fire 
10 Evince 14 Eat away 15 Sacred Image 16 Apiece 17 Take up a 
collection 19 Kitchen end 20 Hot time In 
Paris 21 Wander 22 Allowance 24 Bureaucratic 
procedure 26 Social group 27 Tennis serve 28 John Glenn's 
state 29 FOR follower 32 Forgive 35 Army men 37 Algerian port 38 Firewood 
measures 40 Wild ox 41 Not extreme 43 Apple product 44 Residue 45 Yale men 46 Shipping unit 47 Staffers 49 Small bouquet 53 Theatergoer 55 Actor Alp 56 Medical men: 
abbr. 57 Taken up with 58 At the­
(readily) 61 Youngster 62 Intentions 63 Run away 64 Wrong 65 Rambler 66 Chops 
DOWN 1 Social outcast 2 Furious 3 -out (nipped 
at the wire) 4 News execs. 5 Take back 6 Screen 7 Longing 
11£ HI/MffONS li/ST WtfK .. .'' 

ICJ1985 Tribune Medra Services, inc 9/9/85 Ail Rights Reserved 
Friday's Solution 
8 Mauna­9 Boards a 
Pullman 10 Take care of 11 Obsequiously 12 Numerical 
prefix 13 "-shallwe 
three..." 18 Prospect 23 Century plant 25 Fr. historian 26 Got rid of 28 Monsters 30-gin 31 Absolute ruler 32 "Arrivederci -" 33 Cupid 34 Famous tea­
9/9/85 


par1y guest 36 Gives In 46 Corrlda beast 53 Middle-East abundance 48 Mordant humor bread 38 Register 49 Thicket 54 Over again 39 Colonial 50 Type of 55 Some cats patriot committee 59 "Flying Down 42 Makeover 51 Tokay, e.g. to-" 43 Fattened 52 National park 60 Rlngname 
Berke Breathed 
The Far Side Gary Larson 

:./1/N'T SHE THE 1'!1150 (.fVf WIRE ?_(/ 11CKUCJ Hf'5 1/(.(. Be5r, FINAUYMU /31U 7H€ CIIT 7 5cm&JNf 5PcCIIIt 1 I ( 
_./""'-'
j 

Kevin Walsh 

1985 Universal Presa 

"This was your suggestion, Ednal ... 'Let's play Twister, everyone, let's play Twister!'" 
Campus 

•4:30 
p.m. -Fullbright Information Meeting for all interested Graduate Stu­dents and Seniors, Professor ). William Hunt, Advisor, University of Notre Dame, Room 121 O'Shaughnessy 

•6:30 
p.m. -Notre Dame in Cairo Meeting, New Orleans Room, LaFonune, Sponsored by Foreign Study Programs 

•6:30 
p.m. -Hawaii Club Membership Meeting, Lewis Hall Party Room 

•7:00 
p.m.-9:00p.m. -Information Session, Accountancy Placement Night, Various Cor­porate Representatives, Amoco Production Co., Price Waterhouse, and Crowe, Chizek and Co., Memorial Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services 

•7:00 
p.m.-organizational meeting, Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Environ­mental Concerns Agency, 


•7:00 
p.m. . meeting, Lafonune Uttle Theater, Sponsored by Southern California Club, 

•7:30 
p.m. · Notre Dame I St. Mary's Pre­Law Society General Meeting, Dean Wad­dick, University of Notre Dame, Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Notre Dame/St. Mary's Pre-Law Society, S4.00 yearly member­shipfee 

•8:00 
p.m.-Mandatory meeting for all St. Mary's Freshman interested in running for Freshman Council, 3rd floor Haggar College Center, Sponsored by St. Mary's Col­lege Student Government Elections Commit­tee 

•8:00 
p.m. · 8:30 p.m. -Organizational Meeting for Notre Dame Shakespeare Society, Ubrary Lounge, Sponsored by Notre Dame Shakespeare Society, 

•8:00 
p.m. -Class of'87 Monday Night Foot­ball, LaFortune Ballroom, Sponsored by Junior Class, 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Stuffed Pork Chop Creamed Chicken over Cornbread Spinach Quiche Baked Cheeese and Tomato Pita 

TV Tonight 
34 Soundstage: Tina Turner 46 Lester Sumrall Teaching 9:00p.m. 22 Cagney and Lacey 34 Great Performances: "Don Quixote" 46 LeseaAiive 

TONIGHT 
FOR 
!O:OOp.m. 10:30p.m. 
ll:OOp.m. 11:30p.m. 
St. Mary's Veal Madelin Italian Sausage Sandwich Liver and Onions Spinach Crepes 
16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 46 Church Growth International 16 Tonight Show 22 Simon and Simon/CBS Late 
Movie: "Crooks and Coroners" 
Join the PRE-lAW SOCIETY 
EVERYONE WELCOME 
hi General Mt!t!tlng 
MONDAY. 8EPTEJIIIIER 9 
7:S• .,_..._..___ 



Monday, September 9, 1985-page 12

S~orts 
Notre Dame women's tennis beats Evansville, Marquette 
ByJOHN COYLE Notre Dame also appeared strong week as difficult and challenging as Sports Writer in · doubles, winning all three possible, so the actual matches were matches in straight sets. a breeze," says Gelfman. "I felt very 
Michelle Gelfman could not have The story was pretty much the comfortable and confident because hoped for a better way to make her ' same in the afternoon against Mar­the girls are extremely coachable. debut as head coach of the Notre quette. Panther, Colligan and They give l 50 percent, whether in Dame women's tennis team, as the O'Brien looked good in the first matches or practice." Irish rolled to two impressive vic­matches, as all three again won in 
Despite the apparently flawless
tories Saturday, winning by identical straight sets. Dasso defeated Lyn 
performance, Gelfman said she feels 
scores of 9-0 over Evansville and Davis 6-2, 6-0 in the fourth match 
that the squad's doubles play has
Marquette. and Biafore was victorious 6-0, 6-3 
room for improvement. The doubles 
Susie Panther's opening victory over Laura Janusonis in the next 
combinations gave up a few more
against Evansville of 6-1, 6-1 over match. Schmidt completed the 
games than the enthusiastic coach
Wendy Wilson was a sign of the singles competition, topping Mary 
would have liked to have seen, but
good things to come for the Notre Foote 6-1,6-1. The Irish finished 
she said that she believes that, in
Dame women. Mary Colligan their perfect day by cruising 
time, things should come together.
defeated Susie Owen 6-2, 6-2 next, through the final three doubles and Izzy O'Brien followed suit, matches. The next match for the Irish is downing Jennifer Docke, 6-0, 6-1. Gelfman obviously was pleased Sept. 17, when they will travel to Michelle Dasso, Jo-anne Biafore and with her team's performance. She DePaul to meet the Blue Demons. Tammy Schmidt closed out the gave most of the credit for her ex­The transition to the clay courts of singles action against Evansville by tremely successful debut to the DePaul could present a problem for winning their individual matches team's preparation during the week the Irish but Gelfman said she is easily. Combined, the three lost only and to the players' positive attitude. confident that her players are strong one game in six sets. "I made the practice matches this enough to adapt and to play well. 
ND soccer team loses third game as Wisconsin-Milwaukee wins, 3-2 
"We just didn't have things go our with a diving header, knocked in a way," Grace said. "They have a very crossing pass from fellow team cap­
By GREG STOHR 
Sports Writer 
good team. They're very well­tain David Miles at 53:51. Momen­Wisconsin-Milwaukee handed the coached." tum on their side, the Irish seemed The Observer/Chaitanya Panchal 
Sophomore Michelle Dasso and the rest of the Notre Dame
Irish soccer team its third straight The Irish took the early lead on a about to pull away. 
women's tennis team rolled to two big victories this weekend at the
loss with a come-from-behind 3-2 Tom Gerlacher goal at the 10:47 "With the score 2-1, I said 'we overtime victory at Alumni Field mark of the first half. Stuart Mac­need a goal,"' said Grace, "because if 
Courtney Tennis Center. john Coyle bas all the results in his story Saturday. Donald passed to Mutschler, who we get (goal number) three, we can at left. Notre Dame, now 0·3, never carried the ball into Panther ter­get four, five and six." trailed until the final moments ofthe ritory before spotting Gerlacher at Less than a minute later, however, 

Kentucky hands Irish 
game, its home opener. A shot by the top of the penalty area. The a bad break cost the Irish the lead. Milwaukee's Jimmy Banks midway freshman then blasted a shot past Prpa was breaking away on Breslin through the second overtime Panther goalkeeper Jason Balestrieri when Notre Dame's Steve Lowney deflected off the leg of Irish into the upper left corner of the net came from behind to knock the ball 

volleyball team 3-0 loss 
defender Paul Gluckow into the goal for a 1-0 Irish lead. away. The ball rolled past the on­to give the Panthers the win. Notre Dame remained on top un· rushing Breslin into the Irish goal. By CHRIS STARKEY tic in a game is team spiking 
"It was very frustrating because til Milwaukee's Tihi Prpa evened the With Notre Dame unable to capi­Sports Writer percentage, or how often the attack­we outplayed them," said Irish cap­score with just 21 seconds left in the talize on scoring chances, the great ing team puts the ball away for a kill tain Jock Mutschler. "We have to first half. Prpa picked up a loose ball play of Breslin kept the score tied The high hopes for the Notre or a side-out, giving them the serve. 
win against that level of competi­in front ofthe Irish net and bounced throughout regulation. Breslin made Dame women's volleyball team suf­A .333 percentage is considered ex­tion." a shot over sliding Irish keeper Hugh a sliding save to thwart a Banks fered a setback Friday night in the cellent, and Kentucky ended the Notre Dame head coach Dennis Breslin into the goal. breakaway, then got up to stop form of a 3·0 drubbing at the hands first game with a .345, while Notre 
Grace said he was not too disap­Notre Dame controlled the early Banks' follow-up shot. ,of Kentucky in its season opener. Dame wound up with a dismal -.029, pointed with his team's perfor­minutes of the second half and took The home team had numerous Notre Dame failed to take a game as the Irish had more errors than mance. a 2-1 advantage when Chris Telk, scoring opportunities in both of the from the Wildcats in the best-of-five kills. 
10-minute overtimes, but failed to series, as the Irish often were the vic­Things got better in the second find the back of the net. Pat Szanto, tim oftheir own mistakes. game, as Notre Dame quickly fell be­Joe Sternberg, Bruce McCourt and "We just found too many ways to hind, 4-0. An Irish timeout failed to Mark Bidinger all missed on late beat ourselves," Notre Dame coach pull the team together, and the scoring chances. Art Lambert said. Wildcats widened their lead to 10-0. 
Saint Mary's tennis team 
drops two to open season 
"At the end we had 'hero Notre Dame boasts a very talented Notre Dame challenged behind the syndrome,"' Grace remarked. "We team in potential, but the lack ofex­serving of freshman Maureen Shea
By PAMELA CUSICK 6, 6-4, 3-6, while freshman carried the ball too much, and we perience among the starting six and the return to the lineup ofsenior
Sports Writer Bridget Heratz was edged by Susan Sander 3-6, 2-6 at No. 3. 
tried shots we shouldn't have tried." players proved to be its downfall. leader Tracy Bennington, and pulled Both teams suffered from the "We've got three freshmen at key the score to 10-4. It could get no
The Saint Mary's tennis team Sophomore Sheila Campbell was near-1 00-degree heat on the field, positions in· the middle, and they closer, however, as Kentucky rolled 
lost two matches by identical 9-0 defeated by Mary Longstaff 3-6, 0­but Grace dismissed the idea that were a little lost tonight," Lambert ahead to win, 15-4. 
scores this weekend to open it 6, and freshman Charlene Szajko the weather conditions were the said. "I was counting on the veterans The story of the second game was 
season. The Belles dropped the was netted by Jane Landow 6-4, g;unes to two competitive NCAA 6-7, 4-6 at the number-four and 
cause ofhis squad's loss. to pick up the slack, but it just didn't Notre Dame's poor start from which "I thought the heat hurt them (the happen." it could not recover.
Division teams, Evansvillle Uni­five spots, respectively. Panthers) more," he said. "I thought The match stared off evenly, with The third ~me was much more
versity and Marquette University "We were enthusiastic and a at the Angela Athletic Facility. little bit nervous since it was our 
we were more fit than they were. both teams battling back and forth in competetitve, as the Irish jumped to The relatively young Saint first match of the season," ob­
"I'm proud of the kids. We knew the first game. The Irish kept it close a 2-0 lead, and later a 4-1 bulge. we'd have to fight for every game. In for awhile, but Kentucky eventually Notre Dame went about its spiking 
Mary's team remained enthusias­served Laverie. "The number­
the last two we've been in a position pulled away for a 15-9 victory. ' 
tic in spite of this defeat, and two and number-six singles 
see VOLLEYBALL, page 10
to win." Perhaps the most important statis· feels that the Belles should im­that's an encouraging sign." prove as the season progresses. In doubles competition, Dim­
Coach Debbie Laverie said she players went to three sets and 


Varsity soccer comes to St. Mary's 
"We can only get better after berio and Boyd were beaten by playing NCAA schools," said Wilson and Docke 2-6, 2-6 at No. 
ByANDREA LaFRENmRE of women's soccer in the United returning seniors Katy Boldt,
Laverie, a former Saint Mary's ath· 1, as the second doubles team 
Sports Writer States. Maureen Murphy, Mary Beth Proost 
lete ofthe year. "These teams are consisting of Drahota and "Soccer is growing up fast," Akers and Sue Schier!. 
two of the best teams we'll play Campbell were edged-out by Shaking up the Saint Mary's sports said. "Saint Mary's would like to be at Key junior players include Annand we should keep working and Owen and Sander 2·6, 4-6. 
scene this season is the College's the forefront of women's sports, so Ehret, Gloria Eleuteri, Mary Anne
not get discouraged." Number-three Belle teammates latest varsity sport, soccer. we wanted to move along with the Perri and Stacey Snyder. 
The Belles singles and doubles Heratz and Szajko were sliced by 
sport." \' Returning sophomores are Landry
results against Evansiville and Longstaff and Lindow 1-6, 2-6. 
Initially a club sport introduced at 
Coach and moderator of the soc­Clement, Patty Hatfield, Ann Marie
Marquette indicate how close "The doubles matches were 
Saint Mary's four years ago, soccer 
cer club for three years, Akers said McGraw and Diane Schroeder. 
each match was. close. I think the team has to 
became so popular among students 
he believes the varsity team will be Sophomore Beth Hallinan, a trans­
In singles play against work on playing together a little 
that the athletic department agreed 
especially beneficial to the players. fer student from Indiana University, 
-Evansville, freshman Anne Dim­more," said Laverie. "It's a matter 
to sponsor a varsity team. According 
"Every year the incoming players comes from the biggest soccer area
berio fell short to Wendy Wilson of getting used to their partners 
to Coach John Akers, it is the first 
are a bit better," he said. "The team in the state. Hallinan, along with Hat­
2-6, I-6·in the first singles spot as to gain the experience and con­
collegiate women's varsity soccer 
members will receive the recogni­field and freshman Sarah Creech, are
No. 2 teammate Shaun Boyd was fidence of a successful doubles 
team in the state. 

tion they deserve and will be taken from Evansville, · Ind. All three
shutout by Susie Owen 0-6, 0-6. team." 
Several factors contributed to the more seriously by the College com­
junior Kim Drahota went to 
see TENNIS, page 10 
change. The most significant one, munity."
three sets with Jennifer Dolke 3· 

see SOCCER, page 8
however, is the rapid advancement On the roster for the Belles are 
l_ 





