-~-------­
Quote of the day -page 7 
--------------------------------------· 

Aaeoclakd Preae area was not reported to have been have been killed or injured i11 one heavily damaged. high-rise apartment complex in 
MEXICO CITY Exhausted Mexico City police said Saturday the Nuevo Leon neighborhood. rescue teams worked through the that at least 2,000 people were Gavin also said that five nittht Saturday, digging into the killed, 15,000 were injured and Americans had perished. He did rubble of collapsed buildings for 20,000 were homeless. They said not release their identities, butsaid more victims of the big 196 damaged buildings were a they were a couple staying at the earthquakes that ravaged the threat to safety and would have to devestated St. Regis Hotel, and a world's most populous capital. be demolished. mother and her two children. 
'llte government put the death Mexico City's mayor, Ramon Earlier Saturday, Greg Lagana, toll at 2,000, but unofficial es­Aguirre, told The Associated Press spokesman for the State Depart­timates said it could reach five late Saturday that 1 ,641 bodies had ment Earthquake Task Force In times that. been recovered from under col­Washington, Identified three ofthe 
A second quake hit Mexico City lapsed buildings in the capital, but victims as Mary Vallejo and her and four states Friday night, that 2,000 people were still children from Nebraska. spreading panic and toppling some believed pinned under debris and Mrs. Vallejo's brother, Mike buildings damaged by Thursday's possibly dead. Zgud of Kearney, Neb., said State devastating quake. The back-to-back tremors col­Department officials contacted the 
All I 0 of the Notre Dame stu­lapsed 4 1 1 buildings in Mexico family Friday evening and told dents enrolled in the Mexico City City alone, Aguirre said. Six them that Mrs. Vallejo, 34, and her program were reported safe by an thousand people were treated for children, lise, 8, and Alonzo, 5, unidentified man who had visited injuries, and 5,000 capital resi­were among those killed. the students Saturday and dents rendered homeless !:>y the Officials said at least 1,300 telephoned a parent from Hous­quakes were being housed in bodies had been identified by ton, according to Isabel Charles, refugee centers, the mayor told the Saturday afternoon. Rescue as.<;istant provost and director of AP. workers continued looking for sur­the Foreign Study Programs. U.S. ambassador John Gavin, vivors, but said they would have to 
llte Notre Dame program who flew over the city Saturday, stop soon and clear the rubble to operates through the Universidad told reporters the death toll could avoid the possibility of an People roam the street i.>J front of a collapsed building after an lberoamericana, located in a sout­reach 10,000, but that was "just a epidemic caused by rotting bodies earthquake hit Mexico City Thursday. The quake registered 7.8 on hern section of Mexico City. This guess." He said 1,000 people may in the debris. the Richter scale. A second quake struck Friday night. See story at 
left. 
Aid from around the globe arrives in disaster relief effort 
medicines, plus a team of civil ana non-perishable food and dogs defense rescue specialists who as­trained to search for victims. 
Aid ranging from U.S. helicop­sisted in relief operations follow­o SOVIET UNION A plane carry­ters, Soviet medicines and ing the 1980 earthquake that ing 2.5 tons of medicine: and tents proceeds from a Polish soccer devastated the Algerian city of El arrived In Mexico Saturday and the game were destined for quake­Asnam and killed an estimated Soviet news agency Novosti said ravaged Mexico City Saturday as 6,000 people. two more planes carrying 50 tons nations around the world pledged o BRAZIL The Mexican colony in ofsupplies were being sent. help. Rio de Janeiro, estimated at about o TURKEY The semi-official 
In Puerto Rico, businessmen 40 families, opened a bank account Anatolia news agency said the formed the Roberto Clemente to collect funds for victims. government would donate Relief Committee and sent o CANADA An air force Buffalo 110,000. The Turkish Red Cross 300,000 pounds of food. aircraft left Saturday for Mexico said It would send an unspecified Clemente, a Puerto Rican-born with communications equipment amount of food, medicine, cloth, member of the baseball Hall of and more than a ton of blankets tents and blankets. Fame who played with the Pit­purchased by the Canadian Red o UNITED STATES The State tsburgh Pirates, was killed Jan. I, Cross. Department said help, including 1973, in the crash ofa plane he had o ISRAEL The army is sending helicopters and mine rescue chartered to deliver supplies to equipment designed to locate and teams, was on its way. President victims of the big Nicaraguan dig out survivors from collapsed Reagan is sending his wife, Nancy, 1
earthquake. buildings. The equipment was to Mexico City to explore ways to 
1
Following is a brief summary of designed in Israel and will be deliver aid. Churches and corpora­aid being sent to Mexico by operated by Israelis experienced tions joined with relief agencies to various countries: in its use. commit at least 1650,000. A telet­
j
o ALGERIA The government sent o ITALY The Civil Defense Mini­hon planned in Los Angeles hopes a plane carrying tents, blankets and stry is sending 35 tons of medicine to raise 1500,000. 

Student government to study possible activity fee increase 
By MARK PANKOWSKI creased, she said doubling the 135 the activities fee, yet there has been A recommendation then will be No student club or organization, Copy Edttor activities fee would not be excessive "no great impact on social life." made based on "what information except for the class governments, if "all all the groups bring in good "There's been a big increase In they get and what this campus can has made a presentation to the 
Should the mandatory student ac­entertainment." funds over last year and (social life) and is willing to absorb," she said. senate requesting more funds, said tivity fee be increased to improve: An increase is necessary to hasn't Improved," he said. "In fact it "If we raised it to n 50, the stu­Abood. students' social life? provide adequate funding for all stu­has decreased." dents would revolt," Neal said. "Right now no one has shown me 
Student government Is planning dent organizations, Neal said. Neal said students' social life did If the recommendation is why they need more money for any an In-depth study to decide this "There are simply too many benefit from the increase in funds favorable to a fee increase, she said, a specific reason," he said. "There has issue:, and If It makes a recommenda­groups that (the funds) must be dis­and cited the Around The Corner request would be made to the office been no presentation to (the tion favoring an Increased fee, it is tributed to that no one group is club as one example ofthe improve­of student affairs. IfTyson approves senate~ except for the classes, com­likely the: administration and the receiving adequate funds," Neal ment. the request, it would go to the of­plaining that they need morefunds." Board ofTrustees will approve it, ac­said. "These groups need a larger Approximately 80 percent of the ficers of the University and then cording to Father David Tyson, vice budget to bring In either more funds the University provided Stu­would be presented to the Board of Neal, who Is now In the process of president for student afl'a.lrs. programming or more well-known dent Activities went to finance the Trustees meeting during its spring allocating 12,000 saved for student 
But whether a favorable recom­entertainment. "Not just rock n' club, which has "events planned for spring. groups appealing for more money, mendation is made remains in ques­roll stars but also lecturers," she every weekend of the semester," Tyson supports an increase in the said she Is hearing a lot ofcomplain­tion. said. Neal said. fee. ing. 
Director ofStudent ActivitiesJoni Student Senator Chris Abood dis­Wlten student government does "I think if they make a recom­"So far during the September ap­Neal advocates Increasing the man­agrees with Neal. study the issue, said Neal, It will take mendation to raise the activities fee, peals, 38 organizations are asking for datory fee:, which she said now According to Abood, the Univer­Into account what fees other similar l would recommend it to the officers first-time money or appealing for brings in approximatc:ly 1247,000 sity provided the Student Activities universities charge, whether those and the Board of Trustees," Tyson more money than they received last per year. Board last year with an increase in fees are mandatory or voluntary, and said. "Ifit's well documented, I think spring." she said. 
Although Neal said she is unsure funds equal to n 5 per under­what student organizations that fee I could get it approved by the of­how much the fee should be in-~Uaduate that remains separate from provides funding for. ficers as well as the board." see MONEY, page 6 

----------~­
The Obsener Monday, September 23, 1985-page 2 

In Brief 

Kevin Hurley, the Howard Hall freshman injured in a hit-and-run accident on Sept. 7, remained in critical condition in intensive care last night, a Memorial Hospital intensive care nurse said. Coach Gerry Faust, the captains ofthe football team, Vice Presi­dent for Student Affairs Father David Tyson and Student Body Presi­dent Bill Healy will present the game ball from the Michigan State game to Hurley today. A mass, celebrated by University president Father Theodore Hesburgh, will be tomorrow at 5 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. Hurley is recovering from a broken leg and multiple head and abdominal injuries suffeied in the early morning accident. ­
The Observer 

A Roman Catholic priest accused of supplying young people with cocaine, marijuana and alcohol at his suburban Detroit rectory has pleaded innocent to the charges, state police say. Father Neil Kalina, 30, ofSt. Kieran Church in Shelby Township, in Romeo, Michigan, was freed on $12,000 bond Friday after arraign­ment on one count of delivering cocaine, two counts of marijuana possession and two counts of providing alcohol to minors, said Trooper Curtis Schram. Schram said he learned the priest was providing and using the drugs with young people after investigating parents' complaints that he was supplying alcoholic beverages to them. -AP 
Afl early morning fire in Mount Clemens, Mic­higan destroyed a hotel Saturday, killing two people and forcing evacuation of 40 occupants, police said. The fire, which started about 3:30 a.m. in the lobby of the Tum-of-the-Century Lawrence Hotel in this Detroit suburb, was extinguished within an hour, said police Sgt. Mike Lubeckyj. The bodies of a man in his 20s and a woman in her 30s were pulled from the remains, Lubeckyj said, ad­ding the fire's cause has not been determined. One hotel occupant was seriously injured, officials said. -AP 
Of Interest 

The American AsSOCiation of University 
Women will hold its annual book sale Saturday, Sept. 28, from 9 until 4 at the North Village Mall on U.S. 31. To donate books, call 291­2959. -The Observer 
An astronaut with two trips on the space 
shuttle under his belt has turned down a third voyage because the long hours ofpreparation left him too little time with his family. John Fabian, 46, who was picked to fly on a May 1986 shuttle flight, said he's uncertain when he will leave NASA or what he will do. "I'm in the job market," the Air Force colonel said Friday at the Space Center in Houston. "We get the benefit of going into space. The families don't," said Fabian, who is married and has two children, ages 23 and 
19.-AP 

Prove It! The American Council on Education is asking Education Secretary William Bennett to prove his March 1985 claim that 13,000 students from high-income families are getting financial aid. Bennett repeated the remark in August, dropping the number to 7,000. ACE said there is "no significant number and never was." The Student Aid Recipient Data Bank reported only on guaranteed stu­dent loan recipients whose parents make more than $100,000. -The Observer 

Weather 

No more sun! Thundershowers likely today with a 70 percent chance of rain. Highs will be in the lower to middle 70s. Cloudy tonight with a 40 percent chance of thundershowers and cooling temperatures in the low to upper 40s. It will be partly cloudy tomorrow with a high in the middle 60s. -AP 


The._()bserYer­
1be Obeerver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on hom~ football Saturdays, ~c~t during ~:urn and vacation ~ods. 1be Obeerver ispublish~d by the stu~nts of th~ Unlv~rsity of Nottt Dam~ and Saint Mary's Coll~~-Subscriptions may ~ purchas<:d for J30 ~r y~ar ( S20 ~r ~­m~st~r) by writlng1b~ Obeerver, P.O. 
Box Q, Notr~ Dam~. Indiana 46556. 

1be Obeerver is a m~m~r of The AModated Preas. All ~roductlon rights ar~ r~~rv~d. 
Design Editor.............Jan~ Anne Riedford Layout Staff................................... Usa Marz Typesetters ...................................... Pat Clark Mary Ellen Harrington 
News Edltor...............................)ohn H~asly Copy Editor ........................ Margie Kt:rsten Sports Copy Editor...... Eric Sch~uttmann VIewpoint Copy Edltor.......Cindy Rauck­
horst 
VIewpoint Layout............... Priscilla Karle Features Copy Editor .............. Mary Healy Features Layout................... Ellyn Mastako ND Day Editor........................Aim~~ Storin SMC Day Editor.................... Priscilla Karl~ Ad Design .................... Catherine Ramsden 
Sara Wolohan Photographer ..................... Hannes Hacker Typists .............................. Maura Mc~v~r 
Jodi Sch~ll~nbargtt 



Medical issues in the media: more harm than good? 
From the National Enquirer to Newsweek, nearly every publication isscreaming the same message. AIDS. 
We are deluged with pictures ofRock Hudson weeks before his death and graphic descriptions ofhysteria in Hollywood and the local grammar school. 
And lost somewhere in the degrading photos and screaming parents are the patients and the problems. We read, or can read, as much about AIDS as we care to stomach, but chances are, few ofus have gained any real understandimz ofthe nrohlem or its solution. 
It's not the first time an illness has been used to sell magazines. 
A few years ago eating disorders -anorexia nervosa and bulimia -were·the darling of medical media. We were treated to pictures of an emaciated Karen Carpenter and dozens ofpseudo-informative articles in woman's magazines. 
In many cases these articles did more harm than they did good. Although the media is exploiting AIDS vic­tims, the press cannot spread the disease itself. You 
--=--------------­

Amy Stephan 
Managing Editor 

and deal with the problem. Residence halls may request an educational workshop, focusing on proper eating habits as well as eating disorders. 
Students need not parade up to the third floor of the Student Health Center to get information. Counseline now has tapes available on eating disorders, for those who aren't sure ifthey have a problem or would just like some information. Students also may call and discuss their concerns and questions with Thompson or anot­her staff member. Callers will not be required to give 
their names. 
"Talking about bulimia is 

can't get AIDS from reading hard," said Thompson. an article. A story, however, "They know they're doing inadvertantly could push something wrong ... They someone toward bulimia. don't like themselves for 
Ron Thompson, a psyc­what they're doing and are hologist at Notre Dame's afraid someone else won't Counseling and Psychologi­like them." cal Services, said some of his But for those suffering patients "learned about it from eating disorders, (bulimia) from some of the making the effort to talk things they read in Cosmo about it can be worthwhile. and Redbook." Bulimia is a "People have been cured," disorder which involves hin­said Thompson. "It's not the ging and purging to lose or kind ofthing that has to bot­maintain weight. For a her you for the rest of your woman desperate to im­life." prove her appearance, the The media will continue 
suggestion of this seemingly painless way to lose weight might be appealing. Thompson said that some bulimics never thought of trying these methods until they learned of them from magazine articles. 
Thankfully, the media blitz on eating disorders has drawn to a close. But as the dust clears and the press moves onto the next disease the problem remains. 
Eating disorders are "a problem that will be with us through the 80s," said Thompson. "It's a big, big problem on campus." 
It's also a problem that Notre Dame is prepared to deal with. Thompson, who has been treating patients with eating disorders for six years at Indiana University, is one of many qualified stall members at Counseling and Psychological Services willing to help students with eating disorders. 
Notre Dame offers treatment on a number of levels. Individual therapy is available, and the center now is forming a therapy group. Counselors also are willing to work with residence hall staffs and help them recognize 

to overdramatize and c;x­

ploit "popular" diseases. We can only hope that somewhere in the stack of newsprint, those who need information are able to find it. 
How you live may save your life. 
AMERICAN 


CANCER 
I SOCIETY~

+ 
-
,._ ­-------... , -­
-
-

EXPLORE THE TECHNICALWORLD AT IBM 
SEE US AT INDUSTRY DAY! 
IBM will be on campus September 25, 1985 participating in Engineering Council/SWE Industry Day. We are combining our regularly scheduled November Career Day with this activity. Ifyou are a 1986 graduate and your degree is in Electrical Engineering, Computer Engineering, or Math with Computer Science, please bring copies of your resume or profile form and stop by to see us at Fitzpatrick Hall Concourse between 9:00a.m. -4:00p.m. 
Ifyou are unable to attend, IBM will be back on campus February 18-20, 
1986 for our Spring Recruiting! 
IBM is an equal oportunity employer. 


a •• 
The Observer Monday, September 2~. 1985-page 3 




Student government starts own 'ad agency' 
By GREG STOHR 
StaffReporter 
Notre Dame Student Government has announced the creation of Ad­works, the Notre Dame Advenising Network, an agency which will spe­cialize in all types of advertising for student organizations. 
Student Government hopes that Adworks, originally the idea of Bob Vonderheide, former editor-in-chief of The Observer, will alleviate what it believes to be the inability of stu­dent organizations to adequately publicize campus events. 
"In the past, for a lot of events, there has been a lack ofcoordination in publicity," says Student Body President Bill Healy. "When Bob Vonderheide presented the idea to us last semester, we jumped at it." 
Vonderheide had noticed the in­eptitude of groups trying to publicize events through The Ob­server and felt a need for a new body to c:oordinate student advertising. 
"You have to have a professional approach," he said. "There is a cer­tain amount of skill involved. It ( Adwork.'i) works like an ad agency." 
Headed by junior Frank Vidergar, Adworks presently has a staff of ap­proximately 15. 
It now answers to the Notre Dame student government but Vidergar and Healy hope that Adworks will 
Saint Mary's students! 
Need to publicize an event? Need to place a classified ad? Have a compliment or gripe? 


Ihe ObsenH___ 
:ggar Center 

GOFROMCO~GE~THEARMY 
WITHOUT MISSING A BEAt 
The hardest thing about break, ing into professional music is-well, break ing into professional music. So if you're l<x)king for an oppor, tunity to turn your 
usical talent into a fuiJ,time perform, ing career, take a 
XKl kx)k at the Army. It's not all 
eventually become an independent organization. 
"I have as my goal to become autonomous," Vidergar says, "but it may not happen this year." 
Adworks' budget of $2500 comes partially from Student GovernmelU and partially from the Office of StU­dent Activities. Vidergar says he hopes only to cover the budget, not to milke a large profit. 
"It's a business, but we still look at it as a service to the students," the business major says. "We will make very little profit because we will keep our rates really low." 
Though Adworks has yet to work with a medium other than The Ob­server, Vidergar plans to utilize posters, Scholastic magazine, radio, and perhaps The South Bend Tribune in the future. He expects that a growth in business volume will allow Adworks to explore these other media. 
The professionalism of Adworks, Vidergar thinks, will make it benefi­cial to student groups. 
"Our people have marketing ex­perience," he says. "Lots of our artists have worked in advenising agencies before." 
Adworks will be open for business Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from 3 until 5 p.m. The Adworks office is located on the second floor of l.aFonune Student Center. 

of 40 performances a month, there's also the opportunity for travel-not only across America, but possibly abroad. 
Most important, you can expect a first,rate pro, fessional environment from your instructors, facilities and fellow musicians. The Army 
has educational 
programs that can help _you pay for off­
duty instruc, tion, and if . you qual, · ifv, even 
help you repay your federally ,insured student loans. 
Coach Gerry Faust begins his 1985 Victory tour .rally In two days, as Dillon Hall held a pep rally with Notre. Dame players and fans Friday night In Thursday evening. the Stephan-Ct!nter. It was the team's second pep 


SMC computer ability to expand 
By KATHY CEPERICH 
News Staff 
The basement of LeMans Hall will house a new computer center at Saint Mary's, which will be operative next semester according to As­sociate Professor Peter Smith of the Saint Mary's Mathematics depart­ment. 
Terminal labs, microcomputers and computers will be included in the east wing addition. 
Last spring, on the suggestion of Dr. Mark Bambenek of the Chemistry department, a petition was sent to the administration re­questing the additional machines. "They indicated to the administra­tion that they needed more micros on campus. The need had (already) hr.-n recognized and it (the peti­
read music, performing in the could be your big break. Write: Chief, Army Bands Office, Fort Benjamin Harrison, IN 46216,5005. Or call toll free 1,8QO,USA,ARMY 
tion) served as additional impetus," Bambenek said. 
"We needed the space, it was a planned process. We had already planned to do it when the petition W".IS submitted," said Smith. 
Additional Zenith 158 terminals, new printers and a new prime com­puter will be purchased, according to Smith. 
Bambenek said plans are under­way to increase the power and capability of the present computer mainframe. 
Previously a room in Madeleva Hall held the computers. The move is being made mainly to give addi­tional space. 
Some of the terminals will be available to the students 24 hours a day In an overnight facility and the rest will be available from 8 a.m. to II p.m. 
Students had been complaining about the shortage of computers, especially the Apple Maclntoshes. According to juniors Leigh Ann Hen­ricksen and Colleen Walker, "There is a justifiable demand for Macln­toshes. To write a paper one has to wait 2 to 3 hours. They (Maclntoshes) are so easy to learn that the number of users is growing faster than the number of machines." 
"The administration Is trying to develop a long range policy for com­puter use (and) what we're seeing now is that they're starting to imple­ment the policy. The computer lab at Lemans Is one stage. Ultimately the entire computer operation wlll move into that area," said Bam­benek. 

Canyouaffordtogamble
the LSAT, GMAT, GRE,orMCA1? 
Probabry not. Great grades alone may not be enouQh to impress the grad school of your choice. 
Scores play a part. And that'!i how Stanley H. Kaplarr can help. 
The Kaplan course teaches test-taking techniques, reviews course suQjects, and increases the odds that you'll do the best you cando. 
So ifyotive been out of school for a while and need a refresher, or even if yotire fresh out ofcollege, do what over 1 million students have done. Take Kaplan. Why take l
a chance with your career? 

KAPLAN 
STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL aNTER LTD 
The worlds leading 
test prep organization. 
SOUTH BEND AREA 
Stanley H. Kaplan Ed. Ctr. 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. 
South Bend, Indiana 46637 
(219)"272·4135 

-~-----------~~-------~--­
r The Observer Monday, September 23, 1985-page 4 
r r 
I 
~ 
r 
I 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
,r 
r
, 
~ ~ 
r 
r f 
r r 
r 
f 
r 
~ 
r
•
, 
r 
r 


Development director chosen by Saint Mary's 
By DIANE SCHOEDER 
StaffReporter 
Fundraising at Saint Mary's has a new leader with Becky Drury named as Director of Development by Vice President for College Relation, 'Lawrence Durance. 
Drury is responsible for oversee­ing the annual fund and alumni fund, as well as direct mail campaign and state planning, she said. 
Because Saint Mary's is relatively new at fundraising; Drury said she was attracted to the challenge and "newness lends itselfto molding." "I like to be a part of something new and essential to the college," she said. 
The development department has several new goals slated for the 1985-86 school year Drury said, commenting that the most impor­tant and underlying goal is to build an endowment at Saint Mary's com­parable to that of other woman's private colleges. 
Assistant Vice President of Col­
lege Relations, Anne Reed, stressed 
the need to compete with private schools, such as Smith and Holyoke, which have been raising funds for a much longer period oftime. 
To begin with, Drury is initiating two new fundraising programs. The Saint Mary's class of 1961 will be the first class involved with the reunion gift project. In celebration of their 25th anniversary, an anonymous donor has agreed to put up 10 thousand dollars ifthe class can raise 40 thousand by the first week of June, Drury said. 
Also initiated will be the National Endowment for Humanities Grant. Both programs are brand new this year and Drury said she is looki~g forward to the success and .con­tinued growth ofsimilar fundraising programs. 
"I hope to begin to develop and refine the methods of solicitation and to deliver the message to a broader base ofconstituents," stated Drury, who sees fundraising as a business. One way in which she plans to carry this out is by hiring the Institutional Development Council to organize solicitation funds. 
CHAMPAIGN, 11. -Flanked by huge banners reading "Keep America Growing," singer Willie Nelson and cavalcade ofother stars yesterday braved pouring rain to perform in a marathon FarmAid concert aimed at helping the na­tion's struggling farmers. 
"Thank you very much for com­ing to the concert for America," shouted Nelson, the driving force behind the 14-hour concert featur­ing some 50 stars ofcountry music, rock and blues. 
As a crowd estimated at 64,000 filed into the University of Illinois football stadium, Nelson and Neil Young teamed up to sing "Are There Any More Real Cowboys." Nelson then brought cheering fans to their feet with "Whiskey River." 
Nelson said a nationwide televi­sion and radio audience was cal­ling pledges in at a rate of S500,000 an hour. Singer Brenda Lee, who emceed the program for cable television, said about S3 mil­lion was pledged by late afternoon. That was in addition to S4 million promoters said was raised before the concert began. 
Nelson has said the concert's purpose was to raise money to help needy farmers and to increase public awareness of farmers' problems. 
"We want everyone to call in from 'Surf City' or wherever," lead singer Mike Love of the Beach Boys, told the audience. 
Music styles ranged from the rock of the Blasters to the country ofGeorge}onesandfrom the blues of B. B. king to the classics of Roy Orbison. Carole King played a white piano on the front edge of the stage with the FarmAid curtain as a backdrop. 
As darkness approached, John Fogerty -formerly of Credence Clearwater Revival -had the audience clapping and dancing, and told them, "Next time you sit down to a meal remember it didn't come in a cellophane bag from Safeway, some farmer put his whole life into growing thatfood." 
A steady rainfall began shortly after the concert opened at 10 a.m. The stage, with a rotating center disk for quick act changes, was covered with a blue plastic roof but puddles still formed and crew members armed with mops tried to keep up. 
Some concert-goers covered themselves with sheets of clear plastic, while others huddled beneath umbrellas or hooded rain­coats. 
"\ THIS OLDE HOUSE 

/Gccos~ PI~~=~=y~o:~B
(jJ~ .1 Across from Big C Lumber 
1/ Bri~~~ thi· .' \.i~1on Sr1tmd ·· ()('f. _19 
J-+~USt Jor Sund<~v 1..h I. 20 ,,,. · · . , J, ..•, t :Oc oft!,,, Pftt e of ;11·. ''' 1: :..• ..,,. i""'' f, ~ t•very ~>lotre Dame point..,, •n•·tl. 
!\idxirnum deduction $5. 
HouNt: 

$7.95 
M-Tb -4-11:30 

(Save S2.00!)
F-Sat-4-ll :00 Sun 4-10:00 Each additional item S 1 
277-4519 
C.All. REFORF 11 p.m. FOR DELIVERY 

IIHI........HHMIHIIHifllllll......... 
BANKING. • • ON CAMPUS AT SAINT MARY'S 
1st Source Bonk's office, located at Saint Mary's College in Haggar College Center, offers free checking to Saint Mary's aod Notre Dome students and faculty In addition, this office brings you the convenience of 24 bonking 
locations to serve you! 
Banking Hours· Monday through FrJday 
Mon. thru Thurs. -11:30 a.m.-3:30p.m. 
Still and Max, the renowned ventriloquist act, performed Friday evening· in· Washingrl!n Hall. The event was sponsored by the Student Activities 
Fourteen-hour FarmAid benefit generates more than $7 million 
"A once-in-a-lifetime thing like this, how could you miss it," said Ken Lewis of Bloomington. "What's a little rain. We'll dry out tomorrow." 
Tom Parkinson, a University of Illinois spokesman, estimated that about 64,000 people were in the stadium at mid-afternoon, but said the number could climb as more concert-goers arrived. 
Despite the rain, the crowd rocked as X sang "Breathless" and swayed as Arlo Guthrie did "City of New Orleans." 
About 500 people received medical treatment by early evening, and at:J.other 300 were ex­pected to be treated by the time the concert ended at midnight, said Dr. Alan Baird, co-director of emergency services for the con­cert. 
"We just had minor cuts, scratches, twisted ankles," he said. Baird said marijuana use was widespread. 
Soon after the concert began, country singer Hoyt Axton got some of the rain-soaked audience up and dancing with "Joy To The World," then was joined oy Tanya Tucker. By then, television cameramen on stage had their video equipment wrapped in yel­low plastic to keep it dry. 
Reagan cautions U.S. against 'false hopes' 
WASHINGTON President Reagan, warning against "false hopes" about his upcoming summit with Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbac­hev, said Saturday the meetings could "bear fruit" if Moscow is serious about superpower coopera­tion. 
"The Soviet Union frequently has been bent upon expansion," Reagan said in his weekly radio address. 
"Indeed, since the 1970s, the Soviet Union has been engaged in a military buildup which far exceeds any rational definition of its defensive needs." 
Reagan said that "given the Soviet nature of the Soviet system and its ideology, we must not raise false hopes." 
Speaking from his retreat at Camp David, Md., the president noted that he will meet Soviet Foreign Minister Edward Shevardnadze for the first time on Friday, a session Reagan said has "special significance." 
The meeting is to prepare for the Nov. 19-20 summit meeting in Geneva, the first U.S.-Soviet summit since 1979. 
In his meeting with Shevardnadze, the president said he plans to raise the issues ofhuman rights, the Soviet invasion ofMghanistan, and bilateral concerns such as trade and security matters, as well as U.S. efforts to ac-
Friday -11:00 a.m.-4:00p.m. 
Join Michiono's 1st Team for unsurpassed bonking service! 
HlliiH____IH 
--...-... 

Board and was free to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 
hieve "genuine, verifiable reduc­tions" in nuclear arms. 
The president said he will "search for signs of a Soviet willingness to engage in genuine give-and-take," with the summit in mind. 
"The differences between com­munism and democracy are profound," Reagan said. "There will inevitably be competition between us. But it's the responsibility of the leaders of the United States and the USSR to ensure that this competition is peaceful." 
Reagan said that in the meetings he intends to protect Western inter­ests, but also do his part to improve relations and tell Shevardnadze "how genuinely we wish this meeting to bear fruit." 
"If there's comparable serious­ness and flexibility on the Soviet part, cooperation between our two great nations will be enhanced," Reagan said. 
The president slammed the Soviets for following policies that have "inflicted bitter costs upon the Soviet peoples every week," which he said included a mounting death toll among Soviet soldiers in M­ghanistan and a decreasing standard ofliving at home. 
"Mr. Gorbachev can change this," 
Reagan said, advising the Soviet 
leader to shift scarce resources from 
arms purchases to strengthening the 
economy. 

..................."'"......... 
~  source  
~Bank Member F.D.I.C.  i1  
I  

..............-................--..-....i 
. 

The Observer Monday, September 23, 1985-page 5 
Premier Fabius admits of French involvement in sinking 
PARIS Politicians and newspapers Saturday criticized President Francois Mitterrand and Premier Laurent Fabius for not clear­ing up allegations that a government espionage agency was responsible for the bombing of the Greenpeace environmental group flagship, the Ra.inbow Warrior. 
Greenpeace campaign coor· dinator Steve Sawyer pressed the French government to accept "moral and financial responsibility" for the bombing following Fabius' admission. 
"We hope this will open the eyes of world public opinion to the fun· damental immorality that lies at the base of the international nuclear arms race," Sawyer said in a state· ment from his headquarters in England. 
Jet and ultr~light collide; two dead 
AUBURN, Ala. ·A corporate jet and an ultralight one-man plane collided yesterday, killing two people and in· juring five in what federal officials called the first fatal collision involv· ing an ultralight. 
The planes collided as they ap· proachc:d for landings at Auburn-Opelika Airport, said Herb White, a spokesman for Auburn Uni· versity. The University owns the air· port. 
The ultralight pilot, who was killed in the crash, apparently did not have radio contact with the air· port, White said. The co-pilot of the 
•m• :J. ~mv 

Jtubmt ~obv 'rrsibrnt 
Defense Minister Charles Hernu resigned Friday in the scandal over the July 10 bombing in Auckland, New Zealand, which sank the Rain· bow Warrior before it could leave on a protest voyage to the French nuclear testing site in the South Pacific. 
Later that day, Adm. Pierre Lacoste, head of the General Direc­torate for External Security, was fired after refusing to answer ques· tions about the incident. 
French newspaper headlines Saturday read: "Hernu Sacrificed," "The Minister Leaves, The Mys~ry Remains," "The Truth Still Awaited .... 
"Taken a month and a half ago, yesterday's decisions would have given the feeling that the govern· ment was acting with resolution," wrote the Parisien Ubere. It said the 

\ ofFrance Charles Henru 
government now appears to, be ac· 
jet also died, said Lee County CoronerJon Williams. 
The accident was the "first fatal collision involving an ultralight and an aircraft," said Ira Furman, a spokesman for the National Transportation Safety Board in Was­hington. 
Ultralights usually are one-person aircraft with open cockpits and small engines, descended from hang-gliders powered by tiny engines. Their popularity increased rapidly in the mid and late 1970s, and by 1981, it was estimated there were 6,000 ultralights in the United States. 
The jet, owned by Louisiana· Pacific Corp. of Conroe, Texas, was "upside down in the grass on the side of the runway," said White. 
Five people injured in the crash were treated at East Alabama Regional Medical Center, said Sher­rill Lewis, a spokeswoman for the hospital. 
"One of them is critical, two of them have fractured spines, one is in surgery and one was released," she said. 
She said the injured were relatives of an Auburn student to whom they were delivering furnishings from home. 
Williams identified the ultralight pilot as B.). Tidwell, of Auburn. 
~niUtnfit ~ ~otrt !lamt 
Jtubmt lobtmllttld ~otrt ~~~~~~~. ,nbiana 46556 (219) 239-7668 
~WOtt jJ. ~mtt .)ltubmt ~obu Jfitt-,rrsibmt 
ting "under the pressure ofevents." 
Mitterrand, who earlier in the 
week ordered a shake-up of the spy 
agency over the scandal, has 
remained personally untouched by 
it. New reports agreed he was un­
aware of French involvement in the 
attack until a week after it occurred. 
However, Serge July, editor ofthe 
newspaper Liberation, said the 
Greenpeace affair is "a time bomb 
that still risks exploding at the door 
of the presidential office." 
Jean-Claude Gaudin, president of 
the Union for French Democracy, in 
the National Assembly, said, "The 
forced resignation of Messrs. Hernu 
and Lacoste leaves the problem of 
the truth and the real responsibility. 
"Mr. Mitterrand is the chiefof the armies and Mr. Fabius is responsible ,for defense," he said. 
UDF leader Jean Lecanuet said, "Designating a scapegoat can only 
September 18, 1985 
Dear Fellow Students: 
By now, most of you have heard about the tragic accident involving a Notre Dame Freshman, Kevin Hurley. Kevin is still critically ill and needs our prayers. Notre Dame Students are very good at setting aside 
special days for raising our conscious about various issues (World Hunger, South Africa, etc.). We have set aside Tuesday, September 24, 
1985 for Kevin. 
On behalf of all of Student Government and Howard Hall we invite yo~ to join in our prayers. At 5:00p.m. on Tuesday, Father Hesburgh will say a very special Mass for Kevin in Sacred Heart. We also ask that each hall dedicate one of their daily masses to Kevin. Please come to Sacred Heart tomorrow and lets all join in raising the Notre Dame Spirit up for Kevin. 
Sincerely, 


• 
William J. Heal Student Body ident 
Marching band contest 
TERRE HAUTE, Ind. Ben Davis High School oflndianapolis walked away with the sweepstakes trophy and top honors in the Class A competi· tion in the Mid-States Marching Band Contest at Indiana State University Saturday. 
Ben Davis captured the sweepstakes trophy by collecting the most points among the 3 7 bands competing at ISU's Memorial Stadium. 
Ben Davis also grabbed the honors for outstanding wind sec­tion. 
~ric !--'ar.timu& Jtubrnt ~obv ~rasum 
appear as one more maneuver to try to delay the establishment of the truth and dissimulate the respon· slbility. It is improbable that they were not informed." 
Jacques Toubon, head of the con­servative Rally for the Republic party, said Fabius should explain why, as head ofthe government, "he is incapable ofdirecting the affairs of France." 
The Communists also went on the attack. Poliburo member Charles Fiterman said, "Given the dimension this affair has taken, it appears dif· ficult to me that the highest aut­horities of the state were not informed." 
Two french espionage agents are under arrest in New Zealand, charged with murder, arson and conspiracy, and three others who fled to France are being sought un­der international arrest warrants. 
Staci Harris of Clay City was named outstanding drum major and Lafayette Jefferson's drum­mers were named the outstand· ing percussion unit in the competition. Northview's flags and rifle corps won an award as the oustanding auxiliary unit. 
Ben Davis was followed by Class A competitors Lafayette Jef­ferson, Avon, Marion and Terre Haute North. 
In Class B competiton, Lawrence North finished just ahead of defending champion East Noble. They were followed by Northview, Mooresville and Bloomington North. 
Burfords arrested on DWicharges 
WASHINGTON · Former Environ· mental Protection Agency ad­ministrator Anne Burford and her husband, Robert Burford, an Interior Department official, were arrested on drinking-related charges late Friday night, officials In suburban Virginia said. 
Mr. Burford, director of the Bureau ofLand Management, was ar· rested by Virginia State Police after they saw his car stopped In the middle lane of a highway outside Washington. He was charged with driving while Intoxicated and refus­ing to submit to a breathalyzer test. 
Two hours later, shortly before 1 a.m., Mrs. Burford was arrested by Arlington, Va., police on a charge of being dnmk In public after making a scene at the Arlington County Detention Center, jail officials said. 
Mrs. Burford was in the car with her husband at the time ofhis arrest, according to C.W. Grant, a spokes­man for the state pollee. 
Arlington County Sheriff James Goodies said Mrs. Burford was rin· ging a button that buzzes deputies inside the jail. She also insisted loudly over the lobby intercom that she be allowed to see her husband, and repeatedly said she was a lawyer who knew her rights. 
Arlington police officers even· tually tired of Burford's behavior, Goodies said, and arrested her. "I would describe her behavior as abusive," he said. "Drunk-in-public charges are not very common anymore. You almost have to ask to be arrested." 
Gondles said Mrs. Burford was cooperative after she was arrested, but two hours later she "became a problem" while inside her cell. She was banging her shoe on the cell, and when a deputy went to inves· tigate, he was "scratched up" by Mrs. Burford, Gondles sald. 

The Observer Monday, September 23, 1985-page 6 
Controversy marks reunion of war veterans in Germany 

Breakfast Club 
Morrissey Hall members enjoy the Saturday mor­second year in a row, members plan on gathering ning weather in their bathrobes while they eat in front ofthe south dining ball before each home breakfast before the Michigan State game. For the game. 
NBC 11 t E • t•
CO ec S mmy nomina lOllS and awards in 37th presentation
AaMM:Jated Press 
PASADENA, Calif. -"Cagney & Lacey," CBS's once-canceled policewoman show, and "The Cosby Show," the series that has sparked NBC's drive for top ratings, dominated the early awards at the 37th annual Emmys yesterday. 
"Cagney & Lacey," which stayed on the air only because of a massive letter-writing campaign, won as best dramatic series -upsetting NBC's much-non*ated "Miami Vice"-and took awards for best direction and best writing. 
Tyne Daly, as Mary Beth Lacey, won best dramatic actress for the third straight year. 
"Every year I come expecting to hear someone else's name called," she said. "I think it must be the part I get to play." 
But NBC, which has topped the rating'!! for 16 of the past 1 7 weeks, dominated the awards with eight of the first 15. It led the nominations with 125, more than double the to­tals for both CBS and ABC. 
"The Cosby Show," new last season, won best comedy writing for Ed Weinberg and Michael Leeson and best direction for Jay Sandrich. Bill Cosby, the star and driving force behind the show, rejected a nomina­tion, saying he didn't believe in com­peting against other performers, and boycotted the ceremony at the Pasadena Civic Auditorium. 
"So much ofmy work is shaped by Bill Cosby's wit and philosophy of what a family could be," Sandrich said in accepting his honor at a faster-paced, restructed awards show televised live on ABC. 
William Daniels, the heart sur­geon Dr. Mark Craig on NBC's "St. Elsewhere," won the award as best actor in a dramatic series. 
Betty Thomas, Sgt. Lucille Bates on NBC's "Hill Street Blues," won best supporting actress m a urama, but was upstaged when a prankster accepted the award for her, saying she couldn't be present -even though the camera had plainly showed her in the audience. 
"Well, it is definitely hard to fol­low an act like that," she joked, when she finally took the podium after a commercial. 
"Miami Vice," a pastel and neon blend ofcop show and music video, won best supporting actor award for Edward James Olmos as the stone-faced Lt. Martin Castillo. 
"Yes, Lieutenant Castillo does smile," Olmos said. The show, which had the most nominations with 15, won three technical Emmys announced earlier, but lost the first two awards for which it was eligible. John Addison's music for CBS's "Murder, She Wrote" beat Jan Hammer's "Miami Vice" score and Karen Arthur won the dramatic directing Emmy for a "Cagney & lacey" episode, defeating two "Miami Vice" nominees. Robert Guillaume, the star of ABC's "Benson," whose character has progressed from manservant to lieutenant governor, won the award as best comedy actor. "I know you can't tell, but I just lost my color," the black performer joked. "This certainly beats going home empty-handed for a sixth time, and I'd like to thank Bill Cosby for not being here." The women comedy performers were both repeats from last year: Jane Curtin, as the more insecure of two roommate divorcees on CBS's "Kate & Allie," was best actress, while Rhea Perlman won supporting actress for her portrayal ofthe tough barmaid Carla on NBC's "Cheers." "Twice is really a lot to be up here!" Miss Perlman exulted, con­cluding with a greeting to her hus­band, former "Taxi" actor Danny De 
said most clubs that do charge mem­bership fees "don't charge drastic

Money 
fees. Those that do have traveling c_ontinued from page 1 costs." 
"AU I have are clubs and organiza­Healy said clubs serve specific in­tions beating a path across my car­terest groups and likened the dubs pet. Every group that comes in hear to toll roads. "The logic is like the is requesting money," she said, highway tax," he said. "Ifyou use it, 
According to Abood, saying that you pay for it." students pay only S35 for their so­Abood said that although he cial life is misleading. "Let me put it thinks no student in general wants to this way. I pay $35 in activities fees. I see his fee increased, those that pay Sl5 to Student Affairs and Joni likely will be discussing the issue are Neal. I paid S30 to join the sailip.g the ones receiving the funds. dub. "Every person on the student 
"I paid close to n 00 and some government budget committee students pay over SIOO," Abood receives money from the student ac­said. tivity fee except the treasurer," Vito: "Danny, I love you. I got two and you only got one!" 
John Larroquette, who plays Dan Fielding, the pompous, woman-chasing prosecutor on NBC's "Night Court," won best supporting actor on a comedy series. 
"Hill Street Blues," which has dominated the Emmys the past four years, was eclipsed by "Miami Vice" in this year's Television Academy nominations, 11 to 15. Both "Hill Street Blues" and the NBC musical special "Motown Returns to the Apollo" had 11. 
FRANKFURT, West Germany ­Former Nazi SS soldiers welcomed a group of U.S. World War II veterans to a controversial reunion yesterday and agreed to continue their decade-long friendship despite criticism from Jewish leaders. 
As television cameras whirred, 2 5 veterans of the U.S. 70th Infantry Division and their wives hugged and shook hands at Frankport airport with three veterans of the 6th SS mountain Division. The two divi­sions fought each other in the Battle of the Bulge in France near the end of the war. 
"This is no official joint reunion or celebration; we're not trying to create a precedent or a confronta­tion," said Floyd Freeman, a U.S. veteran who organized the Americans' two-week visit to Ger­many and France. 
"We are just meeting our friends by choice as individuals," Freeman said. · 
The veterans have been meeting
::~;!y ;~c~e 1~~~~db~~t~::s~ 
~a::::~~!~~e~~~!.!l:~~~~ 
atrocities. 
In response, the U.S. group called off its traditional get-together with the German veterans at a French cemetery but said they still planned 
to  meet  informally  in  the  small  
Bavarian  spa  town  of  Bad  
Windsheim later this week.  

"This is the only year a fuss has been raised. Maybe it's the 40th an­niversary (of World War Il's end), the memory's fading and some people want to jog it," said Delyle Omholt, president of the 70th In­fantry Association. 
"We're here to check out old bat­tlefields, meet friends. We do respect criticism, and that's why we're now going to the cemetery alone. We ofcourse do not condone Nazi atrocities." 
Wilhelm Gottenstroeter, director of the SS veterans organization, in­sisted the annual encounters with former enemies were meant to nurture friendships and "have not­hing to do with politics." 
Nazi hunter Simon Wiesenthal earlier this month cabled the U.S. veterans group urging the meeting be canceled. 
"The SS will use it as a sign of reconciliation," he wrote. "Your meeting will become an offense for tnillions of victios of Nazi oppres­sion." 
Neil Sandberg, a top official in the American Jewish Committee, said last week that the Waffen SS, the tnilitary arm of Nazi dictator Adolf Hitler's elite guard, "included large amounts of people who ran ... con­centration camps." 
Willi Weiler, an SS veteran who greeted the Americans at the airport Sunday, said his division had nothing to do with the death camps and was never accused of atrocities at the Nuremberg war crimes trial in 1946. 
Nevertheless, Gottenstroeter said 
any meetings with the U.S. veterans 
during their 1985 visit ''will be in 
private settings to avoid any 
disputes or trouble." 
Two 40th-anniversary reunions of 
Waffen SS veterans last May 
prompted violent street demonstra­
tions outside the meeting places. 
Jewish and veterans groups in the 
United States protested President 
Reagan's visit in May to a German 
military cemetery where SS mem­
bers were buried. 

~=========================================11*= 

Big Red Q Quickprint Center is changing its name to Express Press of Indiana, Incorporated effective May 6th 1985 
Our franchise agreement with Big Red Q Quickprint has come to an end, and we determined that our customers could be best served by becoming an in­dependent Quickprinter. This decision was made because we have developed into a larger company than a typical franchised Quickprinter, with more diver­sified printing, typesetting, and high speed copying skills. We now possess in­house the talent to provide everything !hfi1 franchise did formerly -without the extra financial bu~den of the franchise royalty payments. Needless to say, this will help us maintain our keen competitive edge well into the future. 
During the past year, in addition to completing our new facility here in South Bend, we have opened a second location in Michigan City, Indiana, upgraded our typesetting equipment to Compugraphic's newest, finest state of the art equipment, added a new printing press that allows us to print 2 colors on the­sheet at once, and have just installed a high speed copier that will copy one or both sides of the sheet, collate simultaneously and do it very rapidly, allowing us to extend some very special prices for your multi-original, short run copying, booklet, manual, or legal brief. 
So when you see the new Express Press sign, and hear us answer the phone "Express Press" remember we are moving ahead in Quickprinting even further. 
We appreciate your business and look forward to serving you better in the future. 
..-.---j ..,..._.--­
Thank you, 

Express Press of Indiana, Incorporated
;;;:¢~ 0 CIJ~!W(YdJJ 
t;;~ ~ ~?r ~J3-

325 Oixieway North • South Bend, Indiana 46637 • [21 9) 277-3355 2107 Franklin Street • Michigan City, Indiana 46360 • [21 9) 874-2223 
Student Body President Bill Healy, Abood said. "I don't think any one of who supports increasing the fee, them will say we need less money." 



Accent 

J 
r 
___ ,.............-­

l1 . 

... 
-

The occupants of1J1 Cavanaugh, Mark Hannon, Chris Thompson, Butch Gagliardi and Mike Ricker, proudly display their quote ofthe day. 
r: r 
i­
~ ~~ 
' 
~. 
~ 
~ ,.
• 

" .. :;;;.. The Observer/Paul Paho~esky 
;.· 
• 

~ ­
t ': --·f! ';..•
! 
Monday, September 23, 1985-page 7 
Cavanaugh nten hant up quad with quote of the day 
Mary Berger 
features writer 
T 
he fanatic Notre Dame fan who clads his 
entire body in blue and gold and uses 
body paints to enhance the effect. The 
person at that party Friday night walking the 
tightrope suspended between two lofts. The 
occupants of I 31 Cavanaugh Hall . 
What do these three personalities have in 
common? Adesire for attention. They are 
hams at heart and dare to different. Norms 
fall by the wayside when they arrive. 
The young men living on the first floor in the northeast corner ofCavanaugh Hall approached their quest for attention in a novel way ·with the now rather well-known "Quote ofthe Day" in their window. 
"We had to live by the.rector so we thought we'd have some fun," said junior Chris Thompson, creator of the window attraction. "We decided to take advantage of our position and do something weird · at least amusing." 
Thus, the "Cavanaugh Quote of the Day" was born. "Each night we go through a list of quotes we have and pick our favorite accord­ing to our mood," explained sophomore Mark Hannon, a member of the quote crew. "We began with about 1 5 ofour own quotes and now we use ones suggested by people 
The Observer/Paul Pahoresky 

"The quote that has received the best 
response is: 'When the load get'> tough, the 
tough get loaded,' "said sophomore Mike 
Ricker. "We had people yelling and clapping, 
and banging on our windows that day." 
Student response to the daily inspirations 
has ranged from "quite amusing" and "pretty 
entertaining" to "offensive" and "sexist." 
SeniorJoe Creely, who lived in the room last 
year, feels that the quotes such as "Women. 
can't live with them, can't shoot 'em." arc 
"infantile and a very poor reflection on the 
hall and its members." He added emphati· 
cally, "I think it is a disgrace to the legacy of 
the room.'·' 
Thompson has found that the majority of 
audience reaction has been positive. "One 
guy told us to take it (the quote) down and 
one girl told us we were being sexist," he 
said. "But, we've had people cheer and even 
had three girls come in and introduce them· 
selves because they wanted to see what kind 
ofguys would do something like this." 
What did these girls find? Three sop· 
homores and a junior who "like doing weird 
things," and as one of their quotes says, 
"Never let schooling interfere with educa­
tion." 
Spectator participation is encouraged by a 
sign next to the quote that says "Suggestions 
and crowd response welcome." Hannon said 
this request has led some students to bang on 
the windows and complain when there is no 
quote, because walked out of their way to see 
it. Some suggestions have been offered but as 
Mark said, "We do have to be selective." 
When the quote of the day is one that 
might be considered offensive, like Friday's 
"Smile· it's the second best thing you can do 
with your lips," 'lbompson said he sits and 
watches to see how women react and 
sometimes asks a woman what she thinks. He 
added that only one woman has told him the 
quotes are offensive. 
Other women students who read the quotes say they have been offended at times but usually enjoy the quotes. Freshman Ros Winner said, "I enjoy it when they are funny but when they aren't, it offends me because some ofthem degrade women." Theresa Henley, also a freshman, said, "They are really funny sometimes and sometimes they are offensive but it's their right to put whatever they want in their windows." 
Some men who read the quotes feel strongly that the quotes are too often sexist. Joe Creely said he would be extremely insulted ifhe was a girl passing by the quote. 
But freshman John Sullivan said quotes like "Everyone has to believe in something. I believe in having another beer" are "meant to be taken lightly. They aren't aimed at anyone in particular. If names were used, that would be offensive and really rude." 
Freshman Laurie Bain agrees with a smile, "Keep it up!" 
Keep it up the quote crew will do ·only six days a week, though. Laughed Hannon, "Even God rests on Sundays." 
Features briefs 
this (getting his lunch) all by him­
Restaurant 

self. Done it ever since." Sometimes Mooch gets bread
for the dogs 

soaked in steak gravy with pieces of
All5oclat~d Pr~ss 
MOCKSVILLE, N.C.-When the steak on the side. Sometimes it's customer at the curb of Miller's chicken, his favorite. Restaurant barks for service, One time, Miller's was so busy employees jump. they didn't feed Mooch, Freeman Every day ft1r more than lO years, said, so after waiting half an hour, 
the black, brown and white dog has he took his business elsewhere. crossed two busy highways and He went next door to Hardees • trotted down the road to pick up and barked. lbey fed him. 
his take-out lunch. lben he makes the trip home to a shop behind the Police chief hires Western Auto store to dine in com· fort. 
wife as officer 
"Mooch just showed up here one day a little more than 10 years ago," LAUREL HILL, Fla. -Police Chief said Arthur Freeman, who adopted Malcolm Dreading didn't have to the pooch. "He looked terrible. Had interview many candidates when he no hair. We took care ofhim, fat· wanted to hire a patrol officer. His tened him up, and he started doing wife got the job. 
Dreading had been the entire department until last week, when his 30-year-old wife, Cathy, became an officer. But the step from police wife to officer was ashortone -she already had been handling the radio when her husband was away. 
Laurel Hill has a population of 700, but there are 3,000 people in the surrounding unincorporated area and the town is bisected by a major highway. 
Mrs. Dreading will get on-the-job training, riding with her husband for a few weeks. InJanuary, she'll begin a 16-week course to prepare for state certification. State law permits new officers to work 180 days before beginning formal train­ing. 
Town votes to dump Rolls-Royce 
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. -A man donated a $25,000 Rolls-Royce to 
Palm Beach County, and officials 
promptly voted to dump the classic 
car into the Atlantic Ocean. 
But Greg Hauptner, 39, doesn't mind. He gave away the car in the hope the commissioners would sink it as the county's first artificial reef, and upstage neighboring Broward County, which boasts a sunken Mercedes -ofsorts. 
The freighter Mercedes I, which ran aground last November, was hauled away and sunk March 30 as a reef. 
So Palm Beach officials decided to work toward forming their own artificial reefs, valued as prime sport fishing and diving spots. 
"Where else but in Palm Beach County could you find a Rolls­Royce to sink as an artificial reef?" CommissionerJerry Owens asked Monday after accepting Hauptner's offer. 
Hauptner's 1967 Rolls, which he bought himselfas a 30th birthday present, has bad brakes and a dent in the front end. 
Wedding-take 2 

MANSFIELD Woodhouse, England -when Mark and Sandra Kerry got married two months ago, their wedding pictures got lost in the mail. 
So on Saturday, they staged it all again -complete with 200 guests, including friends, relatives, four bridesmaids and the vicar. 
The vicar gave permission for the photographs to be taken inside the Anglican church, St. Edmunds at Mansfield Woodhouse, a town in the English Midlands, just as they were in the real ceremony. 
A florist sent a replica bouqut:t of the original 24 red roses carried by the bride. 
The couple, both 21, said they had to contact all the original 200 guests to tell them of the wedding. 
They said the envelope contain· ing the original photographs came back torn and containing no pictures. 


~i~~~_<>__i__ll__t_________________
M_o_nd-ay_,s_ep-te_m_be-r2-3,_19_8_5--pa-ge-8 
When the spending stops, who will pay the price? 
f Offers 'concrete' ways to build a better campus 
When is something going to be done about our government's deficit spending? Solutions seem to be on every politician's lips, but when it comes to voting for these measures, the voices fall silent. 
Ken Kollman no easy solutions 
James Fallows, in the September issue of "The Atlantic", addresses what he calls "The Three Fiscal Crises": the budget deficit, the trade deficit, and the unbalanced borrowing from other nations. He ties them together and shows how the connections between them create an enormously complicated issue which necessitates quite a bit of belt­tightening. 
In very simplified terms, the currentlevelof borrowing that our country does just to pay
r 
off its debts drives up real interest rates, which
f 
in turn can cause foreigners to deposit their
r 
money in U.S. banks. This causes the dollar to 
r 
r 
I do not know about you, but I like the idea 
r 
of the new fountain memorial. This majestic 
r 
piece of architecture to which some people
r have applied the misnomer "Stonehenge II" is 
r another indication that Notre Dame is a progressive university 
Michael Iallacci 
the troubadour 
I know what some of you are thinking: the monument will be a big and hulking monstrosity that will ruin the intimacy of the little sidewalk cafe and forever hinder our view of the library. I believe these are the sacrifices we must accept if we wish to be a major university. I firmly believe that the benefits from the grandeur of the sculpture will far outweigh any of its perceived aes­thetic defects. I myself think that it is far more aesthetically pleasing than a smaller, more delicately crafted design. Grandeur, after all, is a sign of modernity. Allow me therefore, to give a few examples ofits benefits. 
First, the monument would provide never­before-imagined photo opportunities for alumni visiting on football weekends. As it stands now, all the prime locations for a scrap­book shot are greatly overcrowded. There are just too many people who stand by the dome and the library. This lovely fountain will divert some of this overflow and force fewer alumni to wait in line. 
Second, it helps fill an embarrassing gap in the University's outlay. I am afraid the con­crete sidewalks were not enough to give the area the aesthetic delight ofa proper campus. The area was too empty, too devoid of some contribution to the University. Too much grass was showing anyway. The campus ha5 too much grass as it is (and it is so time­consuming to have it cut). Some people have suggested a garden with real flowers be planted as a fitting memorial. Such people have only a myopic vision ofa university. Such things are old-fashioned and frankly, too sen­timental. Concrete is the way for a truly progressive university. It is sleek, clean, easy 
Doonesbury 
tT'5 JU5TNOT 
OAMMIT,
SAL, THJfT'5 SAL, 8VEJ<Y­
PfCJ<YOUUP? /AJO!?J<JN6,MAN! 
MIKE! 7HIS HOW
NO REASON ONe FeeL.?
5AL,IJUST I fJON'T ATIN! 
1$ AN EMifR AeaJT
70 fJROPOUT 7HATWAY 
become unnaturally high because the ex­change rates on the invested foreign money is higher than normal. 
With the value ofthe dollar so high, our ex­ported goods are more expensive to foreig­ners, contributing to our ballooning trade deficit. It is a cycle that does not meet back at the starting point, but rather goes up a notch every time, spiraling to incredible figures. 
With the present federal deficits lingering at approximately five percent ofthe country's gross national product and a projected 1985 trade deficit of U 20 billion, there remains little doubt as to the existence of what the House Budget Committee has said "may be the final and most costly burden placed on future generations." 
Reagan and his fiscal policies only pass along the economically painful solution to another administration. Fallows says "Reagan's supporters contend that his ad­ministration 'has restored confidence and patriotism to a nation that lacked them. Maybe so, but it may be remembered longer for con­ditioning us to the free lunch." 
to maintain and very "modern." Add to this the sight of concrete columns hulking over the sidewalk cafe, and I am sure you will agree their impressive stature and imposing gran­deur will more than compensate for the tri­fling simplicity and beauty that is sacrificed. _ 
Third, ofcourse, the Universityshows quite advanced thinking by adhering to the whole phenomena of memorials. A university can never be great unless it honors its dead mem­bers by the standards that befit them. The old type of memorials were not quite successful. The memorial crossroads fountain is a touch­ing but ineffectual gesture. One canwalk right by it without realizing the stature the man was held in. The Rockne Memorial, though im­pressive, is too mundane. Rockne's honor is besmirched daily by its use. Even the various statues on campus are too beautiful and too delicate to evoke the proper griefand respect the dead deserve. No, the modern monument must be impressive, completely useless and utterly ugly. 
The Shaheen/Mestrovich Memorial is anot­her example of Notre Dame's progessive spirit. The great sculpture's works themselves are not impresive enough to honor the man. They were too simple, too subtly beautiful to truly show Mestrovich's genius. It took a master stroke to put all those sculptures toget­her, giving his works a bold, overwhelming focus. Distributing them across campus would only have dispersed the beauty all over the University. The true genius came, however, in modernizing the whole memorial by the impressive concrete foundation. The wonderful sign, I think, is also impressive. No one can walk by without thinking, "this is a memorial." Even the benches give an almost sacred air, like pews in church. The new memorial will serve to develop more fully this theme, and add a more imposing grandeur to the campus in honor ofthe dead. 
Yet I hope the University·with its spirit of modernity does not stop here. Much more work must be done to bringfame and honor to the University. I see potential, for example, in the whole concept of memorials themselves. There is plenty of grass in the South Quad, used for nothing but recreation, which could 
This burden is not reserved solely for the future. It also is costing us a great deal today. Our current aftluence is in return for a lower standard ofliving in the future, but it depends on our spending a large part of what we have now for the interest on what we borrowed in the past. 
Four out ofevery 10 dollars collected in in­dividual income tax dollars goes for premiums on Treasury bills. A man with the same percentage ofdebt, let alone interest on the debt, would have declared himself bankrupt several times over. 
One area to find a solution might be attack­ing the trade deficit. Calls for protectionism against foreign competitors are growing in­creasingly loud, and economists cannot agree whether this will be beneficial to the economy, or just another band-aid remedy by some of our shortsighted Congressmen and lobbyists. 
By far the most widely accepted solution is balancing the federal budget, a task that only gets more difficult every time Caspar Weinberger and Tip O'Neill open their 
easily be the site ofa World War II memorial. Say, why not honor all the dead? We can find some grassy knoll somewhere to honor the dead of World War I, the Spanish-American War, the Civil War, the Boxer Rebellion and the Hough Riots. The possibilities are im­measurable and as long as grass remains, we at least should consider the possibility of memorializing someone. 
I have a few other modest proposals, that if you grant me an ear, I would like to share with you. We should turn O'Shaughnessy into offices for the New Institute for Scholarship, Notre Dame Magazine and the Commission for Excellence in Education. Any great univer­sity has committees working to solve the many problems of university life and they should be given optimum space and facilities so they can research these problems more ef­fectively. 
We would not need that many classrooms anyway. We could just decrease the total number ofclasses and increase total class size to, say, a thousand. We could thus take advantage ofsuch places as Stepan Center, the stadium and the ACC for classes. They are un­derused now as it is. This would solve the problem of class size by making them all uni­formly gigantic and by giving the professors fewer distractions as they work toward publication. 
By the way, the idea of a student-faculty lounge is ludicrous to me. At agreat university 
Here's how to write The Observer 
P.O.BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 
• 
The Observer accepts letters to the editor at the above address. AU letters received become the property of The Ob­server. Letters must be typed, no longer than 250 words and signed by the author. 

• 
The Observer encourages commen­taries from all members ofthe Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community. 


Garry Tr-udeau 

Quote of the day 
"The great man does not think beforehand of his words that they may be sin­cere, nor of his actions that they may be resolute, -he simplyspeaks and does what is right." 
Mencius 
(372-289 B.C.) 

• 
Guest columns may not respond directly to previous commentaries appear­ing in The Observer and may not exceed 700words. 

• 
Commentaries appearing in The Obser­ver do not necessarily reflect the opinions ofThe Observer. 


mouths. Yet drawing on Walter Mondale's ex­perience, no sane politician ever will call for a tax increase ofany substantial size, at least not in the near future, and we all can see how dif­ficult it is to cut spending. One balances a budget by either of these two methods, and progress in both directions is at a virtual standstill. 
So where does this lead us? Fallows gives us few answers. What he does do is put too much of the blame on Reagan. No doubt, Reagan deserves a large share of it and history will most assuredly grant him his portion. But what about the voters, Congressmen and lob­byists? 
In effect, we are all to blame; an uncom­fortable outlook by any standard. After all, voters like getting $1 00 ofdefense and social benefits for S80. Our grandchildren, however, are not going to like this burden, for they are the ones who will suffer for our shortsighted­ness. 
Ken Kollman is a sophomore English and government major at Notre Dame and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
students are too busy gettinggood grades, and 
professors are too interested in getting 
published to really learn anything from one 
another. We are no longer so naive as to think 
learning is the real reason for the existence of 
a progresive university. 
The sooner we realize money is the true mark of success, the more successful we as a university shall become. The University has al­ready made great strides in this direction but, I believe, they still fall short. Thus I propose to make better use of the library. We don't have enough books to fill up the whole thing anyway. Let us consolidate all the books from the 4th to the 8th floor and convert the upper floors into a combination meeting room, luxury hotel-restaurant (with all the enter­tainment unknown in South Bend). This way. Father Hesburgh can more easily and ef­fectively wine and dine rich alumni to in­crease the endowment. And if he is lucky, to get someone to donate another memorial. 
I hope that I have offered some thoughtful insight into Notre Dame's future. I further hope that in all seriousness you consider these proposals for what they are. You will agree, I am sure, with their spirit ifnot their content. 
Michaellalacci is a junior in the College of Arts & Letters at Notre Dame and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 

"ie~P-_O_i_n~t------------------------~------------------M_o_n_d_a~y,_s_e~pt_e_m_b_e_r_2_3,_1_9_8_5_-~P~ag~e-9 
P.O. BoxQ 
Explains reasons for survey's responses 
Dear Editor: 
·1 Ellyn Mastako's article in the Sept. 17 issue 
of 'Inc Observer revealed that students at 
Saint Mary's believe homosexuals are dis­
criminated against on both campuses. It fur­
ther showed a large majority of Saint Mary's 
students don't want additional information 
about male and female homosexualtiy. Could 
it he these two findings are linked, maybe 
even as intimately as cause and effect? 
The basis of discrimination is fear, and fear 
has it roots in lack of knowledge. By this, I do 
not mean to infer that Saint Mary's women 
have a monopoly (or even partial interest) in 
fear and ignorance. They are but a sample of 
the American population which, in general, 
would just as soon not be reminded that 
homosexuals exist, much less take the effort 
to learn more about homosexuality. 
My contention is most people are afraid of 
homosexuality. '!bey may be afraid ofhaving a 
gay or lesbian roommate/neighbor, or they 
may he afraid of being approached by a 
homosexual. The possibility that such things 
could occur may provoke feelings of discom­
fort, hut there is something deeper, someth­
ing darker here. 
Perhaps homosexuality is terrifying 
because it's not just the personal property ofa 
few. isolated "perverts" but is, instead, to 
varying degrees, a very real part of a large 
majority ofthe human race. Kinsey's landmatk 
report ( 19S·i) only has been corroborated in 
il~ finding that feelings of physical attraction 
h>r members of the same sex are widespread 
and are not limited to predominately 
homosexual people. 
Our particular culture forces us to devote sub~tantial amounts of psychic energy to the task of burying these feelings. For the most part, we are successful because we must be successful; failure means almost certain ostracization, failure means becoming one of the untouchables. So successful is the repres­sion that only an oe<:asional dream rises up to tell us what wt"'ve been hiding from ourselves. 
Fear of confronting and coming to grips with our personal homosexuality leads many to simply ignore and even avoid the topic of 
homosexuality, unless it be in the safe form of 
a crude joke or a slur, rather than deal with the 
harrowing consequences. The result, or 
maybe the cause, is a mass ofeducated people 
who actually believe that there are two dis­
tinct categories of people: homosexual and 
heterosexual. Believe that people consciously 
choose to become homosexuals; that it is im­
possible for homosexuals to be happy because 
they are sick, or sinful, or both and that all 
homosexuals are child molesters, or 
transvestites or effeminate. There are not 
enough letters in the alphabet with which to 
catalogue all the myths and misunderstand­
ings. 

When one walks around with such a burden 
of misinformation, it is very easy to dis­
criminate against homosexuals. If you don't 
want to be a part ofdiscrimination (and that is 
a big "if'), you must first put away your fear. In 
order to put away your fear, you must replace 
misinformation with truth -you must want 
additional information. 
Congratulations to the Saint Mary's ad­
ministration and Campus Ministry team, and 
especially to the respondents of the survey, 
who took that first critical step. 
BrotherMichael Dint Notre Dame Graduate Student 
Worry less about form and more about content 
Dear Editor: 
Sue Barton recently wrote a letter including comments on the use of the terms "girls" and "guys." She said the use of "guys" was inap­propriate except when addressing mixed groups ofpeople. I do not mind being referred to as a "guy" (as opposed to a "man"), but when the plural term is used to address groups which include women, it seems sexist. Ideally we should all start saying "y'all," as is done in the South. 
Unfortunately, this brings up another problem, prejudices about accents, about which l am more seriously concerned. There is a widespread· view in academic environ­ments (including Notre Dame) that a sout­hern accent sounds "uneducated" and should be suppressed if a person is to gain intellectual respect. 
'lllis is a silly attitude, especially since most Southern accents are more pleasant to listen 
l J r IC 
c:J 
to than the nasal twangs coming from other 
parts of the country. There is nothing in­
herently wrong, however, with these latter ac­
cents, either. I've been accused ofhaving such 
an accent myself. 

We ought to be tolerant of foreign accents 
as well. American students tend to complain 
and/or make fun of their foreign-born profes­
sors' and fellow students' accents, saying they 
are too difficult to understand. Granted there 
is sometimes a genuine problem, but in most 
cases all that is needed is a little more mental 
flexibility on the part of the listener. 
The important thing at a university is com­
munication -and we should worry more 
about the content of the communication and 
less about its form. Do you hear, y'all? 
Mike McCul(y Notre Dame Graduate Student 
Football fans w.,atch the game and want to win 
DearEditor: 

This letter is in response to Kelly Por­tolese's article on "Notre Dame-Saint Mary's equality." 
Being a student at Notre Dame, (not Notre Dame-Saint Mary's), I had a hard time reading the article without "shaking down the thunder." 
My first problem with the article is that it considers a Notre Dame football game a social event. Social Event? When the Irish beat the University of Southern California in 1977 or the University of Michigan in 1980, I don't remember any headlines reading "Irish Know Ho~ to Throw a Party." But then, of course, I read the sports section, and not the society page. 
Notre Dame football is a battle from begin­ning to end (especially these days), and fans have a responsibility to help their team in every way. If any Saint Mary's student is com­plaining about the price ofthe football tickets she must pay, yet wants to be a part ofa Satur­day social event, she is welcome to my father's tailgater -and I'll buy her tickets from her so the rest ofmy family can be a positive force in helping Notre Dame win. 
The question is "Why?" and I commend Portolese on her observation. It is not why do Saint Mary's students pay more than Notre Dame students, however, but why do they even have the opportunity to buy tickets to a Notre Dame game? Never in my 20 years on this earth have I heard the greatest college football rivalry referred to as the "ND-SMC vs USC game," nor have I heard any cheer "We are ND-SMC." 
I think Portolese should keep in mind her opportunity to buy tickets to the Notre Dame games is a privilege, not aright at any price. Maybe she should also stop expressing her views, before Holy Cross Junior College and Saint Joseph's High School hear about her gripe and offer to pay face value for the tickets currently offered to her at two-thirds price. 
Maybe she also should pray I never get Mike Bobinski's job. 
joseph D. Pupel Holy Cross Hall 

Majority of students do not steal from peers 
DearEditor: 

I'm writing in response to Jeffrey Griffin's letter to the editor in The Observer on Tues­day, Sept. 3 about the loss of his bookbag. Last week I lost a very valuable amethyst and gold bracelet given to me by my parents for my 21st birthday as part of a matching set with a necklace and earrings. 
So I know how you feel, Jeff Griffin, about the loss of your bookbag and I'm sorry. But I am more sorry about your pessimistic at­
titude. I thought you, as well as the many 
young members ofthe class of 1989, to whom 
you directed your irrational warning, would 
like to know that my bracelet, which I thought 
was gone forever, was found and returned to 
me. 

The girl who found it easily could haYe kept 
the bracelet: But because she's a sincere, 
l fthoughtful person, she realized what it meant to me and returned it. Yes, there are honest, trustworthy people at Notre Dame and I hope you find out before you graduate. It's unfor­tunate the loss ofyour bookbag caused such a hopeless attitude toward your fellow stu­dents. 4 
I admit there may be thieves at Notre Dame, 
• 
as there are everywhere. But, more impor­
•
tantly, there are honest, sincere people at 
•
Notre Dame as well. In fact, they are in the A majority. And to the many young members of 
l •
A
the class of 1989, I hope you find these honest 
people as I have found them. 
Gretchen Froehlke Walsh Hall 

Words sometimes have more than one meaning 
Dear Editor: 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are taking life in South Bend much too seriously. This is evident by the response to Erin O'Brien's light-hearted article on Sept. 12 con­cerning what life would be like should Saint Mary's decide to go coed. 
O'Brien obviously was writing tongue-in­cheek, but it appears several readers mistook humor for ignorance. The article was in no. way a reflection of the "academic prestige" of either Institution, but rather a humorous look at college life as it is and what it could be like. 
To those of you who insist on taking everything so literally, that's your prerogative. But, please, lighten up on those of us who don't. 
Diane Schroeder LeMansHall 

Put pressure where it 
can be heard the most 
DearEdttor: 
Upon returning to the University this fall, I found myself wishing that l could bring one aspect of home back to school. At home l am able to receive WBNY, the Buffalo State radio station. I listened to it all summer break and became quite addicted. When I returned to Notre Dame, however, to my dismay I found I could not tune in our campus station, WVFJ. Notre Dame is suffering acutely from the ab­sence of a radio station. ll~ format and programming are very acceptable (progressive music), but the technical quality (or lack of it) makes the station sorely inade· quate. 
One could argue the students are apathetic and would like to listen to the local stations just as well. This, unfortunately, is not the case. Supply the students with the equipment to produce a radio station that can be received and they will listen. By not supplying the stu­dents with a workable station you deprive them ofa very large facet ofcollege life: music. You also deprive them a means of expression and communication. 
A fund drive one-quarter as successful as last year's MS drive would allow Notre Dame to purchase the basic tools with which to build an adequate campus radio station. Ifyou support me in this endeavor, please write to The Observer, or what is more preferable, contact anyone in student government and encourage them to put pressure where pressure is needed. 
W. Todd Waffner Ho(y Cross Hall 


Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager.. .. Dav1d Stephenltch
P. 0. Box 0. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (21 9) 239-5303 
Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan Controller......... .. .. Wilham J. H1ghducheck News Editor ................................... Keith Harrison Jr Advertising Manager .........................Jim Hagan 
The Observer IS the independent newspaper published by the students of the Un1versity of 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Systems Manager ....................... Mark B. Johnson 
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol1cies of the 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Production Manager.. . .John A. Men nell 
adm1n1strat1on of e1ther institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­>
Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb 
Sible. Uns1gned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy 
tanes. letters and lhe Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is 
Viewpoint Editor ........ , ........................... Joe Murphy
available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches campus. through letters, is encouraged. 
Copy Chief .............................................. Frank Lipo Founded November 3, 1966 
.• 

---~-------. 
Sports Briefs 
The_ Saint Mary's soccer team dropped two 
games this _weekend, losing 2-1 to Quincy yesterday and to Michigan 
State on Fnday by a score of 3-1. Sue Chirel scored on an assist from 
Maureen Murphy in yesterday's game while Beth Hallinan tallied for 
the Belles Friday. -The Observer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team travelled to Illinois Benedictine College this weekend to compete in a 16 team tournament. After losing 3 matches, the Belles beat Eureka Col­lege in the consolation round before being knocked out ofthe tour­ney. Details will appear in tomorrow's paper. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team 
takes on Butler today at 3:30. Details on the team's last four mat'c)les will appear in tomorrow's paper. -The Observer 
The ND/SMC Gymnastics Club will be 
meeting today at 4:15p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. Anyone who is interested may attend. -The Observer 
The Saint Mary's tennis team split two 
matches yesterday. In morning action, the Belles lost to Wisconsin­Milwaukee 7-2. They regrouped in the afternoon to squeak by Illinois-Chicago 5-4, winning 4 of 6 singles matches. On Friday, the team beat Anderson 6-3. Details will appear in tomorrow's paper­
The Obseroer 

Novice Boxing Tournament workouts con­
tinue everyday at 4 p.m. in the boxing room in the ACC. Anyone who is interested may attend. Upperclassmen with experience are invited to workout, although they will be excluded from the novice tournament. -The Observer 
I 

Monday, September 23, 1985-page 10 
A karate course is being offered by NVA on Mondays and Wednesdays beginning today. Anyone who is interested should contact the NVA office for more information. -The Obseroer 
More NVA informationis available by calling 239­6t00 or by stopping by the NVA office in the ACC.. The Observer 
The Domer Runs are coming on Saturday, 
Oct. 5. The deadline for entries for the three-and six-mile events is 
Friday in the NVA. office in the.ACC. For more information, cali 239­
6100.-The Observer 
The Weight t'OOm on the third floor of the Rockne Memorial Building is open Monday through Friday from 3:15p.m. to 
10:30 p.m. and Saturday and Sunday from noon to 5:30p.m. -The Observer 
An ultimate frisbee tournament is being 
sponsored by NVA. The deadline for submitting 10-player rosters is tomorrow in the NVA office. For more information, call 239-6100. ­
The Observer 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor ofLafortune. Briefs should be submitted on the forms available at the office, and every briefmust include the phone number ofthe person submitting it. -The Observer 
Sutton wins on sudden­death hole 
Associated Press 

ABILENE, Tex.-Hal Sutton rolled 
in a I 5-foot birdie putt on the first 
hole of sudden death yesterday to 
beat Mike Reid for the S72,000 first­
place check in the S400,000 South­
west Golf Classic. 

It was Sutton's second victory in 
extra holes this year. He defeated 
David Ogrin in a playoff at the 
Memphis Classic. 

Reid, who has finished second 
twice in his nine years on the tour 
but has never won, missed the green 
on the 398-yard, par-4 No. 1 hole but 
chipped to within a foot for a certain 
par. 

Sutton hit the green in regulation 
then canned his putt to earn his fifth 
victory of his PGA tour career. He 
has now won $362,-560 on the tour. 
Sutton has been in three playoffs on 
the tour and won all ofthem. 

Howard Twitty made a hard 
charge, shooting a 3-under-par 69 to 
finish at 14-under 274, justa shot be­
hind Sutton and Reid, who were at 
273. He won S27,200. 

Richard Zokol was another shot back at 275, posting a 2-under 70 over the windswept, par 36-36-72 Fairway Oaks Golf Club Course for Jl9,200. 
Reid and Sutton came to the 18th hole tied after they both birdied the 471-yard, par-4 No. 17. Reid also birdied the 165-yard, par-3 No. 16 to tie Sutton, who had either lead or shared the lead since the third hole. 
Boh missed I 5-foot putts on the 72nd green to force the first playoff in the five-year history ofthe tourna­ment. Sutton shot a !-under-par 71 while Reid was level par 72 as they played in the same threesome with Andy Bean. 
Th<' Obsat•t>r Notre: Dame: offkc:. locatc:d on the third tloor of l.aFortum· Studc:nt C"nt"r. atT<:pt' dassifkd adn·rti,in!( from') J.m until ·f p m ..\londa\ through Fridav. Th<' Obsaz·er Saint :\Ian··, offin·. hll'att·d on tht· third tloor of Haggar Colle!(l' Ct:nter. accc:pt' cla"ifkd' from 12:.~0 p m until-~ p.m.. .\ton­day though Fritlav lkatllint: f<>r nt·xt-da\ da"ilktl' ;, -~ p m. All cla,"fktl' muM ht: prt·pa!d. eithl'r in per~on or h~· mail <.hargc •..., I 0 lTnh pt·r fivt· chara(.:·
Classifieds 
tt:rs t:r tlaY. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8117 
EXPERT TYPING 2n-e534 AFTER 5:30 
Wordproce.ing Cal Dolores 2n-6045 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009 
TYPING-term papera, r81Umea, lett..,., epplicationa. Reaaonal:lle r•eo: pickup and delivery on campu-available. Call CalhySchuhzbetween5-10pm277-5134 
$1G-$360 Weeldy/Up Mailing Circulanl! No quolaa! Sincerely inter-rulh oelf­addr..ad envelope: Su~. POBox 470CEG, Woodltocl<, IL 60098. 
LOST/FOUND I 
LOST on Greenfield 9/11, pr. of IT'M/grey rning lhoea with my keys i.-ide! Can't at­ford the fine. if found pleaae call 1040 -Thanks 
LOST: Mar>'l brown ro..ry, poaaibly in or ,_CCE on Fridey Sept 13. Pleaae call Bob at 233-2784. 
REWARD1 Gold colored Seiko Quartz -ch! PleaM help me find rt before I have to tel my parenta I loet their graduation pr-t Cal Tom at 3810 or 622 Grace Thanks! 
LOST Dlf'MOND ENGAGEMENT RING. PLEASE CONTACT ALICE IF YOU KNOW OF ITS WHEREABOUTS. VERY IMPORTANT. 232-6069. 
LOST!!! ONE PAIR OF GROOVY, BLACK-FRAMED, MIRRORED FAKE VUARNETS. THEY HAVE ALL KINDS OF SENTIMENTAL VALUE. I EITHER LEFT J'HEM ON A TASI..E IN LA FORTUNE OR ON THE FLOOR IN NIEUWlANO. MARY'BETH 288·55n 
................................................................
. 

LOST: White Car.tina ~t in or eround Senior s.rThu,_.y the 12th Stev•1850 
LOST BLACK CASIO 100 METER THERMOMETER SPORT WATCH. ALARM IS SET FOR 5:40 PM. LOST &­17-85 SOMEWHERE BETWEEN CAVANAUGH AND CUSHING. CALL SAM SIEWERT AT 1431 (228 CAVANAUGH). 
LOlli: Purple book b11Q on 9/18 at the IOIJth dining hal, p1MN return by calling me at 2n-8336 or draping It off at theloet & found office Really need my noteo and booka. Thanks whoever you are? Ike 
LOST: 8et(15) of keys on two intercon­nected ringe.lf found call Jon at 231H>471 or2n-Bt71. 
HEY COMERS!!! My blue NO bool<biiQ wao tal<en from the South Dining Hallaf1er dinner Thul'8day the 19th. Contenta: 2 watch81, room keys, very important peych. book and notes. PLEASE cal me -' 4051. Thanks. 
LOST THURS GOLD HEINEKIN WATCH.SENTIMENTAL VALUE-I WEAR IT TO ALL OF THE PARTIES.PLEASE CAU CHRIS AT 3810 FOR REWARD. 
La.T: BlUE BACK PACK (JANSPOR'T) IN SOUTH DINING HALL DURING LUNCH ON 9/19. IF FOUND OR PICKED UP BY MISTAKE, PLEASE CALL TERESA AT 3491 OR TAKE IT TO THE LOST AND FOUND OFFICE (LAFORTUNE). I NEED THE BOOKS AND NOTES FOR TESTS. 
FOR RENT 

student efficiency $125.ar>d utiftieo near N.D. 2558505: 2594943 
GRAD ROOM;CLOSE QUIET;$100/M0.:2n-2045. 
Student -two rooma, ahower, private entrance el uti~ties paid 288-{)955/2n­
3804 
2 lg. bdrmo, $270 incl. heat. Gr-. near w/lide, 15 mina. from campua. Cal 234­5570 after 4:30. 
War>ted: Mature, non-emoking peraon to ahere pleaant 3 BR home with 2 or-d otudenta. $130 monthft util. 113/4 mi. from NO. 232·8327. 
Private rm in quite home tor Chrialian lady. Non-smoker. $150/mo. Coin laundry, kitchen privileges option. 233­1159, ~en Loebrich. 
WANTED 
Need ride to Dayton any -end. Cllll Maria4174. 
Domino'a Pizza hao openinge for pan time delivery persona. Mu• be-''-18 y_. old, own car. and have valid in­ourar>ce. Hourly wage plus commiaion. Apply in peraon at 816 Portage Ave. or 1636 South Bend Ave. 
Two ARMY G.A.e desperately needed ! Wil pay big$$$ and USC Tix JOHN 3691 
NEED RIDE TO ST. LOUIS ON 9127 ­9/29. CALL MONICA 284-5171. 
FEMALE ROOMMATE WANTED FOR BEG. OF OCT. NOTRE DAME APTS. 112/month. CONTACT ALICE 232-6069. 
FOR SALE 
For Sale Stereo stand. n-, $75 ne(lOtillble, call M..-kat 2450or23&-5303 
For Sale 1975 Honda, 2-door, 5-opeed. Cal256-5175. 
1978 Chevett -low m1le~ condi­tion. 272-4884 
CORDLESS PHONE, like new, new ben. ~-$40 neg. call Joel1697 
FOR SALE: Electric Stove CAII288-Q264 
74 PONTIAC LEMANS, VB, POWER. AIR. GOOD CONDITION. 283-2850 
1976 CHEVETTE NO RUST, VERY SHARP. 58,000 MILES. 4 SPEED $1800 CAN BE SEEN MONDAY SEPT.23 PLEA,SE CALL 233-2090. 
TICKETS 
I WIU PAY BIG BUCKS FOR 3 ARMY GA'S OR 4 LSU GA'S CALL STEVE AT 17330R 1757 
................................................................. 
I._.. 4 tick...tor ND-USC. c.ll llerk M2M-8810. 
&e.! SENIOR needa two USC tix tor MOM and DAD! Andy 2109 
I badly need G.A.'I tor all home games. Call Marty at 1050. 
Need live (5) GAs for Army game. Call Rod at 1768. 
NEED 2 OR 3 PURDUE GA'S CALL GLORIA 284-4306. 
I DESPEIU.TELY NEED 2 ARMY G.A. TIX. WILLING TO PAY GOOD IIONEYfl IF YOU CAN HELP, CALL TIM AT 4246 OR JOHN AT 1628 
PliOOiGk:..SONii..t.iEEi)''rw()'AFii:4v 
G.A.'S TO GET BACK IN THE HOUSE. MONEY IS NO CONCERN TO US II PLEASE CALL TIM 4246 OR JOHN 1628. 
NEED 3 PURDUE TIX. CALL 4276 OR 4083 
BOSTON COMERS LOOKING FOR 
USC TICKETS. WILLING TO PAY $$$. CALL HELEN 2n-4324 EVENINGS 6:()0-11:00 
PERSONALS 
Your friends will know you betterin the firat minute you mHI then your ecquejn­tanceo wiN know you in athouund years. 
-Richard Bach. llual­
...................................... 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N., 1 BlOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
ARTIFICIAL BIRTH CONTROL:Ie there another way? YES Natural Family Plan ning io SAFE HEAL THY and EF­FECTIVE. Everyone invited to IMm more ton ite,7pm, Hayes-Healey Aud. Engaged and married couples call 237-7401 o r 288-2662 to register for clau etarting Wed.Sept.25 on campuo. 
SMC Found..,. Day Writing Conteat Eaaay of 1 ooo-1200 worda on: 
1. 
Influence of St. Mary's put on pr....,nt 

2. 
Changes in St. Mary's College 3. Some upecbl of SMC have changed: however many !hinge otill remain the same Pepen muot be typed and turned into 303 Madeleva by October 9. For more into: call Susan at 5258 ...... $50 PRIZE ..... 


A YOUNG MAN IN A CORRECTIONAL INSITUTE WISHES TO CORRESPOND WITH A COLLEGE STUDENT. PLEASE WRITE: MICHAEL LLOYD. 51<Hl5-87 10l86, 275 ATLANTIC AVE. BROOK­LYN, NY. 11201 THANK YOU. 
BOFA io not dead'!! It's just resting, but for thoee of you concerned. call 1097 andaok for Tip. We'll let you in on what to expect from the new, improved BOFA(coming soon!) 
CHAPEL AUEY NOTES: Fitz tor RA in '87;Homeboy the horlle for hire: Rono now perform1ng; The BIRD ie baci<;Commando raida done cheap: -­ODIN-A WAY OF LIFE-
Lynn, I've never been stood up by someone with an accent before. How humbling. Hope you aced Guatemalan Theology. Only kidding, but. you owe me one. 
Colleen, I've got something of youno. You'd better come get it before the pot­bellied guy across the haN stretches it all out of ahepe. 
Frosh girls at Pizza Hut Hall, you're great'!! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY JOHN! YOU WIN! YOU WIN BIG-TIME' YOU'RE A WIN­NER! THAT'S JUST GREAT. LOVE, HELEN 
LOSE SOMETHING? TRY ST. AN­THONY! HE'S GRRREAT! 
Their God wu a gentle god, and did not send hie people into the deaert. but circled their mistakes with red ink. 
Take me home to Chicago and I'll be your friend forever. I need a ride the weekend of Sept. 27. Call Fran at 2687. 
Help ua avoid the Beantown blues. Give ue a ride to Boston or vicinity for October break. Call Maria 4174 . 
Purple Ey•. Got Ya! Aw another 
aurpriae! 
Hope you liked the othera. Por Favor. EYF me soon' Perhaps more? I'll be waiting!-Baby-Beby1 
"Have a little f811h, 
there's magic in the night, 
You ain't a beauty, but hey, 
you're all right " 

-TheBooa 
Who today turns 36 
NEED TWO USC GA'S. WIU PAY TOP DOLLAR OR TRADE YOU LSU GA'S FOR THEM. CALL JODI x3693. 
YOU DONE GOOD LOST AND FOUND' THANKS!! 
WEST COUTER&-DON'T FORGET 
WEST COAST PICNIC-OCT. 4 $2 Collection Tuea, Wed. & Thuno at din­ner in the din1ng halls 
"Well, I lllways had thil fantasy about a tub fuH of green Jello .... In fact, it doesn't even havetobegreen.·· And this from my big Slater, who ie suppoeed to be a tole model for me. 
JACOUIE HAVE A WILD AND CRAZY BIRTHDAY LOVE YOUR PSEUDO AOOMATES JANE AND PAM 
ANN. JAMES DEAN IS WAITING AND WONDERING WHERE YOU ARE OH I'M SORRY. I MEANT TO SAY BRYAN ADAMS' 
YO CIL,I BE THINKING YOU'RE RIGHT. LIFE IS JUST ONE BIG RATIONALIZA­TION. WHAT I WANT TO KNOW IS. WHERE ARE THE BEER AND BON­BONS? 
LAURIE, WISH YOU COULD'VE BEEN HERE LAST WEEKEND. BE WAITING BY THE DOOR ON THE 20TH, READY TO HAVE A GOOD TIME! WE'LL SHOW FULTON HOW TO HAVE FUN! LOVE. JEN 
THAT'S ENTERTAINMENT FEATUR­ING: JOHN KENNEDY IRISH SINGER AND DANCER WED. SEPT. 25 8-12PM HCC CHAMELEON ROOM COME AND RELAX AND JOIN US FOR FREE POP­CORN AND A GREAT ATMOSPHERE. IT'S THE BEST ENTERTAINMENT ON CAMPUS!!! 
... 



The Observer 
Monday, September 23, 1985 ·page 11 
Field hockey team beats Huskies 
By CHRIS STARKEY Patti Gallagher kept the Huskies off scoring, though, and Notre Dame Sports Writer the scoreboard. was able to preserve the 2-1 victory. Notre Dame got its first score lindenfeld was especially happy 
The Notre Dame field hockey twenty minutes into the game, as with the play of Gallagher and Bisig­team turned a tight defensive junior forward Beth Bisignano nano. struggle into a 2-1 victory over Nor­tallied through heavy congestion in "Patti was tough in the thern Illinois yesterday on a soggy front of the enemy net, scoring her today," she said. "She and Cartier Field. The win evened the second goal in as many games. A helped us a lot. Beth set up a lot of Notre Dame's record at 2-2. Coach missed breakaway attempt by junior plays on offense. Jill lindenfeld had words of praise wing Corinne DiGiacomo helped set ''It really was a team for her team. up the score. though, and I was pleased 
"Today was the· best we've played The second half saw Notre Dame everyone." this year as far as game flow," she increase its lead on a perfectly ex­Next on the schedule Is today's commented. "We had good team­ecuted penalty corner shot. Senior game against Lake Forest. IJndenfeld work, and strong ball movement. forward t.iolly McCabe brought the says her team is ready. 
"There are a few things we can do ball into play, and senior link Regina "Lake Forest gave us a good gameto improve, but overall, I was really Degnan controlled it with a stick last year, and we'll have to play wellhappy with our effort." stop. Senior back Christina Wein­again," she said. "Last year we playedWhile the game remained scorless mann then put the Irish up 2-0 on a on a poor field with poor officiating.
for much of the first half, Notre blast over the goalie's shoulder. 
Tomorrow it's on our field.
Dame found the ball on their end of This margin was short-lived, the field for a disproportionate however, as the Huskies fought back "They're a physical team, but I amount of time. The Irish hung to score on a Kim Darkin goal with think we're a little better In the skill 
tough, however, and some eight minutes left in the game. This areas. On a field like ours (astroturf) determined saves by senior goalie turned out to be the end of the that will work to our advantage." 
Spinks offers rematch for title to Holmes 

AModated Press "I think Larry deserves a rematch; Tne ot.ervcr/HIIUica HICka' he gave me a chance," Spinks said 
junior Beth Bisignano reaches for the ball tn yesterday's action LAS VEGAS,Nev.-Michael Spinks Sunday, several hours after his his­
against Northern Illinois. Bisignano tal/ted a goal to help lead the wouldn't mind a rematch, but Larry tory making performance. 
Irish to a 2-1 victory. Holmes says his fighting days are Spinks became the first light 
over. heavyweight champion to become a 
1111111111111111111111111111111111 
SpECIAl 
•­
•­

•-•
•-1er50naCizel ;
•­
•-~k.risbr.R-S earls: !
•-­
•-•­
•-•­
•-re~ious, -noveCty, •­
•-•­
•-~ ~o-n,UmJorttry. •­
•-•­
•-•­
•-•­
~LSO:
•-•­
•-•­
•­

•­~CITY ~STAll! & ZJPOCU: 
•­

•-FREEkl1tln.,.,~fne­~..,,_ . C..prided .Willi,_-by SepbiMft •­
•­
•­

•-ENVELOPE IMPRINTING 
•­

•­
•-•­
•-•­
•­

1111111111111111111111111111111111111 
heavyweight champion, scoring a close, but unanimous 15-round decision over Holmes for the Inter­national Boxing Federation title. 
"It's all over now," Holmes said in his hotel suite following his upset loss, which prevented him from tying Rocky Marciano's 49-0 record. 
''I'm glad. 
"Why do you think I lost? They wanted a rematch," Holmes said of the decision in which all three judges gave Spinks the last round. This gave Spinks a one-point margin on two officials' cards. He won by three points on the third card. 
"It was in the cards for me to lose," said Holmes, adding that he has been bothered this year by a pinched nerve In his neck. 
"I hate to make excuses for myself," he said. "God always gives you a sign when to quit." 
Most boxing observers feel that pressure will be put on Holmes for a rematch. 
Butch Lewis, who promotes Spinks' fights and co-promoted 
Saturday  night's  match,  said  he  
wasn't  sure  what  was  n~xt  for  
Spinks.  

Before the fight, NBC had offered $3.5 million for Holmes to go after victory No. 50 against somebody like Alfonzo Ratliff In prime time Nov. 22, which is a ratings sweeps period. 
Ratliff aiso lost Saturday night, dropping the World Boxing Council cruiserwelght championship in a 12­round decision to Bernard Benton. 
A first defense by Spinks certainly would be attractive to NBC or the other networks or to HBO, which telecast Spinks' upset victory. 
Lewis said Spinks could hold both the undisputed light heavyweight title and the IBF heavyweight cham­pionship for 90 days. 
When someone asked which title Spinks would relinquish, both Spinks and Lewis laughed. 
One intriguing fight possibility mentioned was a fight between Spinks and Marvelous Marvin Hagler, the undisputed mid­dleweight champion, at catch weights for the heavyweight title . The weight limit could be 175 pounds. 
"I don't want to fight Hagler," Spinks said. 
Spinks, who weighed 200 pounds, 25 pounds over the light heavyweight limit, said he "felt I needed the l 5th round to win." 

-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--·-. ·-~-~~~·~ 
~--------------------~----------------------------------------------------------~-----------------------------­
The Observer 

Rams at Seattle tonight 
Eagles, Colts, Saints get first wins 
Auodatcd Prell8 Chargers 44, 
Giants 27, Cardinals 17 
The Philadelphia Eagles ended an Bengals 41 embarrassing touchdown drought St. Louis damaged itself with and snapped Washington's eight­Bob Thomas' 34-yard field goal penalties and three second-half tur­game home winning streak yester­with four seconds remaining ended novers and the Giants took day with a stunning 19-6 National a wild game at Cincinnati. Lionel advantage for TD passes of20 and 16 Football League victory over the james caught one of Dan Fouts' four yards by Phil Simms. Bobby johnson, Washington Redskins. touchdown passes, good for 60 who caught the 16-yarder in the 
The Eagles won their first game of yards, and ran 56 yards on a draw fourth quarter, also had an 8-yard the season behind four field goals by play for San Diego. Fouts was 24-for-score as he hauled in his first two Paul McFadden, from 34, 36,37 and 43 for 344 yards. receptions this season. Phil 41 yards, and their first touchdown The Bengals, 0-3, led 41-34 with McConkey, who grabbed the 20­this year, a 17-yard pass from rookie 4:39 left thanks to Larry Kin­yard m toss, also had his first two Randall Cunningham to Earnest nebrew's 8-yard scoring jaunt. But catches ofthe year. Jackson. Washington, meanwhile, Fouts found James, then James dropped to 1-2 and failed to score in Brooks fumbled the ball back to the Dolphins 31, Chiefs 0 double figures for the first time in 58 Chargers, who moved to the win­regular-season games. ning kick. 
Other first-time winners yester­Dan Marino threw for two touch­day were the New Orleans Saints, Cowboys 20, Browns 7 downs in the second half following a who downed Tampa Bay 20-13, and scoreless first 30 minutes, and the the Indianapolis Colts, who took Dolphins blanked the highest­Detroit 14-6. Danny White, who makes a living scoring team in the league. Kansas 
Elsewhere, it was San Diego 44, throwing m passes, caught one City had scored 83 points in winning Cincinnati 41; Dallas 20, Cleveland from haltback James Jones and also its first two contests this season. 7; Denver 44, Atlanta 28; Pittsburgh tossed for a score at Irving, Texas. 20, Houston 0; New England 17, Buf­White handed off to Jones at the falo 14; the New York Giants 27, St. Cleveland 12, then slipped into the 
Irish 

Monday, September 23, 1985-page 12 
NFL Standings 
NAnONALCOHFE~EHCE 
Eat AME~ICAH COHFE~EHCE w L T Pet. PF PA hat Dallaa 2 0 .667 85 47 W L TPct. PF PA 
N.Y. Giants 2 0 .667 68 40 Miami 2 1 0 .667 84 39 St. Louis 2 0 .667 85 78 New England 2 1 0 .667 50 54 Philadelphia 1 2 0 .333 25 44 N.Y. Jets 2 1 0 .667 66 37 Wuhington 1 2 0 .333 36 76 Indianapolis 1 2 0.333 30 81 
c.ncr.J Buffalo 0 3 0 .000 26 73 
Chicago 3 0 01.000 3 0 Cenlr8l Detroit 2 1 0 .667 60 62 Pittabu'llh 2 1 0 .667 72 20 Minnesota 2 1 0 .667 83 70 Cleveland 1 2 0 .333 48 54 
Green Bay 1 2 0 .333 46 70 Houaton 1 2 0 .333 39 59 Tampa Bay 0 3 0 .000 57 89 Cincinnati 0 3 0 .000 92 113 Weet Weat 
L.A. Rams 2 0 01.000 37 22 Seattle 2 0 01.000 n 59 San Francisco 2 1 0 .667 90 54 Denver 2 1 0 .667 94 71 NewOrteana 1 2 0 .333 70 94 KanauCity 2 1 0 .667 83 78 Atlanta 0 3 0 .000 71 107 San Diego 2 1 0 .667 93 99 
L.A. Raid6nt 1 2 0 .333 61 70 

Yeetwday'a l'leeulte Dalla 20, Cleveland 7 New Orteana 20, Tampa Bay t3 Denver44, Atlanta 28 N.Y. Giants27, St. Louis 17 Indianapolis 14, Detroit 6 San Diego 44, Cincinnati 41 
Pittabu'llh 20. Houaton o Miami 31. Kanau City 0 New England 17, Buffalo 14 N.Y. Jets 24, Green Bay3 PhiladelPhia 19, Wuhington 6 San Franciaco 34, L.A. Raiders 10 
Today'aoa.... 
L.A. Rama at Seattle 

On his first two collegiate passing tack. This play capped a six-play, 54­
Louis 1 7; Miami 31, Kansas City 0; left comer ofthe end zone, where he· attempts, McAllister linked up with yard drive keyed by a 35-yard jaunt the New York Jets 24, Green Bay 3, tookJones' pass. continuedfrompage 16 flanker Mark Ingram for 41 of the by Pinkett. and San Francisco 34, the Los An­yards on the drive. This, and the The Irish closed out the scoring geles Raiders 10. Broncos 44, Falcons 28 Purdue. On that day, Brown subse­solid running ofsophomore tailback late in the fourth period on a 5-yard 
Tonight's game has the Los An­Lorenzo White, whose quickness touchdown run by Starns. This score
quently fumbled away the kick to geles Rams at Seattle. give the Boilermakers a IJUick three out of the backfield helped him to was set up by a sensational, diving On Thursday night, Chicago beat John Elway's three tou<;hdown points. : accumulate 12 3 yards in 31 rushes block of Michigan State placekicker Minnesota 33-24. passes and Rich Karlis' three field Saturday, however, Btown was a on the day, threatened to make it a Chris Caudell's attempt of a 49-yard goals paced the visitors. Denver year wiser, and he took1the opening 
long day for the Notre Dame field goal by safety Brandy Wells. Saints 20, Bucs 13 benefitted from two long pass inter­kickoff of the second half 93 yards defense. All was well for most ofthe day for 
ference calls on Atlanta's Wendell down the left sideliqito give Notre "I thought that first drive we had Notre Dame and its fans. Cason, good for 31 and 4 2 yards. Dame a 14·7lead.The run, which in­was the best one of the season," said "It was obvious that we got beat Dave Wilson threw for a pair of The 0-3 Falcons were without cluded a pair of jukes that brought Perles. "Lorenzo White ran as hard by a better team," said Perles. touchdowns and safety Terry Hoage three injured regulars from their Spartan chasers to their knees, was as he could all day. When the play "(Notre Dame) played an emotional 
forced a fumble and intercepted a secondary. nothing special to Brown but the started I thought McAlister was game. If they play the way they pass at New Orleans. The Saints won critical break of the game for the going well . . ., but it was the first played today, they're going to end despite losing guards Brad Edelman Steelers 20, Houston 0 Irish. game the young man had ever up with a lot of)\'ins."
"The guys did a great job," said
and Kelvin Clark and center Steve played. I'm looking at him for the 
Y-day'eGame Korte to first-half injuries. Tampa future." 10
Brown. "It was a big hole, and I just Michigan State 7 0 3 0 ran. I did it a lot in high school." Notre Dame 7 0 7 13 27
Bay, 0-3,lost receivers Jimmie Giles Pittsburgh's defense manhandled After this drive, however, Faust 
Scoringand Kevin House to injuries. the Oilers, holding the visitors to and the Irish coaches put senior cor­MSU ·White 4 run (Ciludell kid<)
Brown later was on the receiving end of a 49-yard bomb from Beuer­NO· Euon 17 pualrom Bauerlein (Canney kick)
134 yards of total offense. The nerback Mike Haywood in the game 
NO· Brown 93 kid< return (Canney kid<)Colts 4, lions 6 Steelers have not allowed a touch­lein which set up the third Irish as a type ofrover, free to chase after MSU · Ciludell21 FG 
down in two home games this the scrambling McAlister. With the
touchdown, a two-yard Pinkett run NO-Pinkett 2 run (kick failed) NO· Sterna 5 run (Canney kid<)
season. Donnie Shell had an inter­in the fourth quarter which gave the big defensive line of Notre Dame ( 4 HD At Indianapolis, Colts reserve ful­ception and a fumble recovery as the Irish a 20-10 margin. sacks for -24 yards) consistently Firat downl 1 1 1 9 
Rullhing attempts 411 43
lback George ~onsley rushed for a Steelers registered their first shutout These two quick scoring strikes overpowering the smaller Spartan 
Net Yarde Rullhlng 168 182 career-high 1 70 yards on 27 carries. since 1981. by Notre Dame seemed to break the line, McAlister played right into the Net Yarda Puaing 55 217 P-comp-attempted 4-17 1>29
He also caught five passes for 32 back ofthe frustrated Spartan attack, tenacious Haywood. 
Had intercepted 2 2yards as Rod Dowhower won his which had been stymied by a Total Net Yarda 223 399 
first game as an NFL coach. The Patriots 17, Bills 14 determined Irish defense after rol­"They're difficult to throw over," Fu~loet 1-0 2-1 
Penaltiee-yarda 7-50 6-63
Lions' Garryl Rogers suffered his first ling at will for 82 yards and a touch­explained Perles, "so we thought we Punta-average 11-43.5 4-42.2 NFL coaching defeat. down in 1 0 plays on the opening could get outside the pocket. But lncllvldual LAedare 
RUSHING · Michigan State: While 31-123;
drive ofthe contest. the comer (Haywood) did a great
Irving Fryar returned a third­McAiiater 11-20; Galee 4''14; Morae 3-11; Noire Many figured freshman Bobby job catching (McAlister). 08me: Pinkett 2>1 16; Sterna 6-26; Franciaco >17;
quarter punt for 85 yards and a 
Taylor 2·1 1; Andryliak 1-5; Bauerlein 2-0; 

McAlister ( 4 completions -17 at­Split end Tony Eason did a nice
49ers 34, Raiders 10 touchdown on a second chance. PASSING -Michigan State: Mc:Aiiller 4·17·2,55; Buffalo's John Kidd had punted and tempts, 55 yards) to get the starting job catching Beuerlein's spiral in the Notre oa....: Bauerlein 1>27-2,217; Andryliak 0.2­nod at quarterback against the Irish, endzone for a game-tying touch­0,0;
the Bills stopped Fryar. But they 
RECEIVING· Michigan State: Ingram 3-47; Morae In a meeting of teams which have were penalized and Kidd had to kick but few expected the wiry, sprint­down in the first stanza after the 1-8; Notre Dame: Ward >64; Brown 4-88; Euon 2­out runner to show so much poise Notre Dame defense had found out 25; Williama 1·19; Rehder 1·1 1; Pinkett 1-6; Sterna
won two Super Bowls apiece in the again. This time, Fryar scooted the past five years, the defending cham­distance. on the opening drive. how to shut down the Spartan at-1-4; Attendance· 59,075 pions got two TD tosses from Joe New England's other m carpe on Montana and a 28-yard scoring run a 5-yard pass from haltback Craig with a fumble recovery from Milt James to Tony Collins. The hosts McColl. The 49ers' rugged defense scored their first touchdown of the forced Los Angeles QB Jim Plunkett year when Greg Bell went 16 yards ATTENTION ALL SOPHOMORES from the game with an injured left with a Vince Ferragamo pass in the 
shoulder. second period. interested in the 1986-1987 
"We went out with the point of view that we could go out there and ARTS AND LETTERS
Defense 

win the game," said Banks of the continuedfrom page 16 defensive unit. "Instead ofgoing out stun a quick attack. In the defensive there and 'holding them,' (the at­backfield, senior Pat Ballage, in his titude of) 'We can go out and win LONDON PROGRAM second game as the starting strong the game' became a factor today." safety, also had three unassisted In the end, it was apparent that a tackles and an interception. Irish strong desire and effort on the part INFORMATION MEETING: cornerback Troy Wilson also of the defense was the final dif­notched an interception to go along ference. An ignited defensive spirit with seven tackles -five of which saw many poorly-thrown Spartan MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1985 were unassisted. passes and many Spartan runners 
7:30p.m., LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
On the line, the Irish were ob­dropped for losses. Once the Irish viously led by a strong rush which had taken claim to their homefield refused to allow McAlister time to advantage, hope of a Spartan com­pass and forced many poorly· eback was diminished. 
Staff members and former students will describe the
thrown passes. Senior nose guard ''You couldn't measure the inten­Eric Dorsey led the intense effort sity level out there," explained Program, explain requirements and selection with 12 tackles, including two quar­Furjanic. "It was something that you procedures, and answer questions. Sophomores from terback sacks for a total loss of 14 just had to witness yourself. We just 
ALL colleges in the university are welcome.
yards. felt confident as a team. That's the 
From their linebacking spots, Fur­big thing -having confidence in janie and junior Mike Kovaleski had yourself and in your teammates and eight and nine tackles, respectively, ifyou have that, there is no one that 
Forms to add names to theProgram Sophomore
while Mike Larkin, Robert Banks and could defeat you." 
mailing list will be available in 133 O'Shaughnessy
Cedric Figaro chipped in with 18 On Saturday, the Irish will be able from the outside in holding the Spar­to prove their confidence as they as well as at the metting. tans to 141 yards total offense fol­will be looking for their first win on lowing their first touchdown drive. the road this year at Purdue. 

·------··~--~ 
The Observer Monday, September 23, 1985-page 13 

Sen tor trl-captain David Mtles ( 14) challenges an Indiana op­ponent for the ball whUe teammate Marvin Lett (3) looks on. The Irish lost to the Hoosiers 4-0 yesterday, dropping their record to 1-6-1. For more on the soccer team'sfortunes over the weekend, see Phtl Wolfs story at right. 
ByPHILWOLF 
AssistantSports Editor 
There was a case ofbad timing for the Notre Dame soccer team when it took to Alumni Field yesterday against Indiana. The Irish played poorly while the Hoosiers played their best game of the season and took a 4-0 victory back to Bloomington. 
The loss dragged Notre Dame's record down to 1-6-1, including a 1­1 ,Pe with Michigan State Friday night on Cartier Field. The Hoosiers, who beat Ohio State, 4-1, Friday night, went to 3-4. 
"We have been improving with every game," Indiana Head Coach Jerry Yeagley said after yesterday's contest, "and I'd say this was (our best game of the year)-I thought we played with intensity and concentra­tion for the whole game. 
"We kept our composure and poise, and we really moved the ball nicely as a team." 
The Irish, meanwhile, lost their composure and let the Hoosiers take advantage oftheir tentativeness. 
"As soon as the game started, we just gave them way too much rt"spect," Irish Head Coach Dennis 
Comf2uler Science Majors 
WE NEED SHARP IDEAS FOR OUR CUTIING EDGE. 
U 
he Travelers doesn't 
believe in cut­ting corners. 
In fact, when it comes to data processing careers, we've got a sharp edge on the competition. Because our ACCENT 
0

program is designed spe­cifically for .Computer 
0 

Science majors. It's a fast-paced, challenging training program. Offer­ing diverse assignments leading to key management positions. 
All in an advanced environment-the largest IMS shop in the industry. With 19 IBM mainframes. A 23,000 terminal SNA network. 
But, our commitment to DP doesn't stop there. We're gearing up for the future­with the purchase and installation of 12,000 IBM PCs. And, we're looking for several enthusiastic people as recruits for our next ACCENT program in our Hartford, Connecti­cut home office. 
If you have a degree in Computer Sci­ence or a related discipline, high academic achievement, exposure to hardware and software, and some programming experi­ence, y~u have the right credentials for ACCENT. 
If you're a highly-motivated person, an 
independent worker, and an innovative 
Irish soccer teaiD ties MSU, loses to Hoosiers in weekend action 
Grace said. "You have got to give the opponent some respect, no matter who you play, but you can't fear them. We certainly did fear them, and it showed in the game. 
"We never really went out to chal­lenge them. We backed off. We were intimidated by them. 
"I don't think we played well," Grace concluded. "We didn't even give them a good workout." 
The Hoosiers established the lead early in the game when Han Roest scored off a corner kick with an as­sist from Rod Castro just 3:42 into the match. Pete Stoyanovlch dribbled through a loose Irish defense and shot the ball past goalkeeper Hugh Breslin for the second goal ofthe game at 15:29 
Breslin made nine saves in the contest, while Bruce Killough, his 
Hoosier  counterpart,  recorded  
three.  
Chris Keenan  added  a  goal  at  

60:37 with an assist from John Stol­lmeyer. Keenan then assisted as Barry Margolin knocked in the last goal at 69:39 
Indiana outshot Notre Dame, 29· 
9. The Hoosiers also had a 15-2 edge in corner kicks en route to their 

thinker, you have the right chemistry for ACCENT. 
Now make the right move. To The Travelers ACCENT program. Where you'll find high visibility. Varied learning experiences. Career growth potential. And your own IBM PC-to take home with you. As a 
key member of a premier financial services company, you'll enjoy a competitive salary and complete benefits. Plus generous relo­cation assistance. 
So, bring your talent to The Travelers. Where we put the accent on people. And you get the edge on a successful career. 
Sign up for our campus interview schedule. Recruiters will be on campus Friday, October 11. Or send your resume or letter of interest to: Priscilla Pellett, 30-CR, The Travelers Companies, One Tower Square, Hartford, CT 06183. 
Data Processing For Dedicated People. 
TheTravelerSj 
eighth victory over the Irish in as 
many years. 
"We played very well," Yeagley said, "and the things we wanted to do we were able to. I'd say rather than a bad effort on Notre Dame's part, it was an extremely good effort on ours." 
Grace, a former player and assis­tant coach under Yeagley at Indiana, disagreed. 
"Midway through the first half, the sun came out. That was the only bright spot I saw," he said. 
There were more bright spots last Friday night, but the Irish still could not record a win. They tied Mic­higan State, 1-1, under Cartier's lights. 
Notre Dame outshot the visiting team, 25-7, but still managed only the one goal. 
The goal came.at 62:21. Senior tri­captain Dave Miles scored his first goal of the season from 30 yards after receiving a cross from Joe Sternberg, who carried the ball down the right side ofthe field. 
The Irish had numerous other scoring opportunities, but many shots were saved by Spartan goalkeeper Paul Zimmerman, who had 10 saves all night. Several other shots hit the goal posts or barely missed the opening. 
"We had plenty ofopportunities," Grace observed after the game. "We were all over that team. We had enough chances to win. And again (for the seventh time this season), we didn't win. A tie is just as bad as a loss." 
The Spartans scored their goal at 
78:11. Peter Crawley beat Irish defensman Stuart MacDonald and passed to Jim Gallina, who shot th(' ball past the outstretched Breslin. 
"There is no way we should have let them get back in the ballgame," Grace said. "They're very fortunate to get out of here with a tie. They didn't have too many scoring oppor­tunities." 
The Spartans forced Breslin to make only five saves. 
The Irish continued to dominate play in the two overtime periods, but they could not get the ball in the net. 
It was the third time Notre Dame had been in overtime this season and failed to win. The Irish previously had lost to Wisconsin-Milwaukee, 3· 2, and Evansville, 4-2, in overtime contests. 
It was the Spartans' first overtime game this season. Last year, the Irish settled for a 2-2 tie with the Spartans in East Lansing. 
Notre Dame will play at Wisconsin-Green Bay on Saturday and Northwestern on Sunday. 
The next Irish home game is Oct. 2 against Bowling Green. 
Cardinals stretch lead over Mets 
ST. LOUIS· Tommy Herr hit a two· run homer with two outs in the bot­tom of the ninth inning to give St. Louis a comeback 6-5 triumph over the Montreal Expos Sunday and solidify the Cardinals' lead In the Na­tional League East. 
The victory, coupled with New York's 5-3 loss to Pittsburgh, ex­tended the Cardinals' lead to three games over the Mets. 
Herr's blast, over the left field fence, came on a 3·2 delivery from reliever jack O'Connor, 0-2. 
Herr's homer made a winner out ofKen Dayley, 4-2, who relievedJoa­quin Andujar to start the eighth. 
The Observer Monday, September23, 1985-page 14 
Irish baseball team plays poorly, loses four games over the weekend 

By BILL IRVIN 
Sports Writer 

The rain came down on the Notre Dame baseball team this weekend, both literally and figuratively. 
As a cloudburst fell during the first game of yesterday's doubleheader against Western Michigan, the Irish exhibited soggy play in dropping an 11-2 contest. Western Michigan also won the second game handily, 9-2, thus completing a dismal weekend for Notre Dame. Bethel College also gained a sweep on Saturday, beating the Irish, 10-3 and 9-3. 
The tone of the weekend's actjon was revealed in microcosm in that first game yesterday, as Westerm Michigan exploded for seven runs in the first two innings. After an infield out and a walk started the game, the next three hitters knocked out singles, setting up an RBI sacrifice fly by Abe Walker and a run-scoring single by Jim Davis. The visitors, up 4-0, quickly iced the win by pushing across three more runs in the second, on two hits and two walks. 
In addition to their inability to stop enemy hitters this weekend, .the action this weekend. the Irish also failed to generate "I'm pleased with our young much offense. In the fifth liming of pitching. Madsen and Fitz did a good Sunday's second game, the Irish job, and Carmen did too. Shields hit started to mount a comeback when two homers, as did Rogers." Scott Rogers blasted a tape-measure Gallo noted that perhaps the homerun to centerfield. Two walks problems of some of the upperclas­followed the blast, and the runners smen on the team can be traced to moved up on a ground-out to the trying to do too much. right side. Ken Soos, however, just "Sometimes they try to do more missed on a pitch as he flew out to than they can do." left. Rick Vanthournout then The Irish mentor also responded bounced out to end the ending. to critics ofthe fall season. 
As could be expected, Irish coach "Playing intersquad ball is not like Larry Gallo was not pleased with his playing outside competition. And no team's performance. way does losing in the fall develop a 
"It's very evident that we've got a losing attitude. We're learning what tremendous amount ofwork to do," we have to work on. It's true that said Gallo. "We ran into outs, we're not getting good pitching or pitchers weren't holding people on, good hitting. But I still feel we have batters were taking strikes. We the talent to do well. played very poorly Saturday. I think "We need a lot of hard work and we made eight errors... dedication . we have many games 
Gallo indicated that he does not left." intend to accept continued losing. Next week, the Irish will have the 
"I'm not u!?ed to losing. I've gotten opportunity to redeem themselves, us an accelerated schedule, and as they have another four-game we're not going back to playing weekend. Saturday, they take on nobody.'' Spring Arbor College in a pair of 
Though unhappy about the losses, games, while battling St. Francis Col­Gallo did find some bright spots in lege on Sunday. 
Martin gets into fight with his own player in Baltimore 
Martin contended that he became involved after trying to act as a 
BALTIMORE · Billy Martin, the peacemaker in a budding fight bet­enibattled New York Yankees' ween Whitson and an unidentified manager, suffered a broken right patron. arm in a fight with pitcher Ed Whit­"I was sitting at the end ofthe bar, son early yesterday at a Baltimore talking with (infielder) Dale Berra hotel. and his wife, and Whitson was in a 
Martin held an impromptu news booth," Martin said. "A guy told me, conference when he reponed to 'You'd better get over there, Whit· Memorial Stadium for yesterday's son's in trouble.' game against the Baltimore Orioles "Dale and I went over," Martin with his arm in a cast and a sling. said, "and he had a guy straightened Whitson, who reportedly suffered a up, like he was going to belt him. I cut lip, had bef=n sent home. told him, 'Hey, don't get in trouble ... 
"1 think it happened when he you don't need it.' kicked me," Martin said of the "I don't know what he said, but he broken ulna bone in the forearm. turned on me and went crazy," Mar­"He kicked me once in the groin, tin said. "He kicked me a couple of and once in the arm.'' times. That's when I got hot, and 
The latest in a series of brawls in­tried to pop him. I don't deny that." volving the fiery Martin was There was speculation that Whit­described by a security guard at the son may have been seething over Cross Keys Inn as "one of the most losing a starting turn Friday night, brutal fights I've ever seen." when Martin replaced him with Rich 
Members of the Yankees' travel­Bordi in the first game of the Bal­ing party said the brawl started in timore series. the same hotel bar where Martin was Martin said he told Whitson ofthe involved in a shoving match with a switch before the Yanks left Detroit, patron Friday night. after the pitcher told him that his 
Players and members ofthe media arm was tender and he "might not be tried to break up the fisticuffs. But ready" for Friday's game. onlookers said the fight continued each time Whitson broke free, and "I can't go with that," said Martin, continued into the hotel lobby and contending that the trainer told him the parking lot, finally ending with a there was a 50-50 chance that Whit­shouting match on the third floor of son could pitch and that pitching the hotel, where they yelled and coach Bill Monbouquette said the cu~d loudly at each other. right-hander couldn't start. 
PURDUE UNIVERSITY NORTH CENTRAL 
Presents 
The Rellslon/Sclence Controversy 
The Use and Abuse of Science In the Defense of Religion SAturday, October 5, t 985 9:00a.m. to 3:30 p.m. $20.00 per person 
This conference Is cQncerned with the extent to which science Is and can be used or abused In defending the rational­Ity of religious beliefs. Churches around the world use crea­tionist films and books to argue that "you.do not have to throw out your brain to believe In Christianity." Numerous Christian groups push what some think are quack medical systems or psychological strategies. Astrologers, members of the Flat Earth Society, psychics, and others often use the biblical scrip­tures as support for their beliefs. How can one recognize what Is a legitimate use of science and theology and what Is abuse? We Invite you to Join us as we explore this topic. 
For further Information, contact the'Offlce of ContiJiulng Educa­tion, Room I I, Schwarz Hall or Dr. Sherman Kanagy, Room 311 D, Schwarz Hall. 
Purdue University North Central Highway 421 &. Indiana Toll Road Westville, Indiana 46391 785-254·1 /812-05271462-4197 


AN EQUAL ACCESS/EQUAL OPPORTUNITY IJNIVERSJTY 

If there's one thing business calculations, amortizations students have always needed, and balloon payments. this is it: an affordable, busi-The BA-35 means you ness-oriented calculator. spend less time calculating, The Texas Instruments and more time learning. One BA-3 5, the Student Business keystroke takes the place Analyst. of many. 
Its built-in business The calculator is just part formulas let you perform of the package. You also get complicated finance, a book that follows most accounting and statistical business courses: the Business functions -the ones that Analyst Guidebook. Business usually require a lot of time professors helped us write it, and a stack of reference books, to help you get the most out like present and future value of calculator and classroom. 
© 1985 Tl 
A powerful combination. 
Think business. With the BA-35 Student Ji2. Business Analyst. ~ 
TEXAS 
INSTRUMENTS 
Creating useful products and services for you. 




~~~C3l~-----------------------------------------M__ __ __
o_n_d.ay_._s_e•p-te_mb_e_r_2_3_._19_B_s -p_a_g•e--15­
Bloom County 
•. ANP 7HCN I MOWP INTO 
GI?AC~l/IN/? WfTll 6t.VI5-utr ~SO HIIPPY/ 1£f?f(65:£7 M~ fiP t.IK~ 11 /l(){..l_. llEN M:P PI/56 01/T Fl(()tii/U. 
1H6Pit./..5"i~ j 
Zeto 
ACROSS 1 Persist 5 Hangwlth 
cloth 10 Comunlt 13 Slouan 14 Red dye 15 Pump or wedgle 16 Derby winner 18 State of 
perplexity 19 Little demon 20 Island dance 21 Fan 23 Sibilate 24 Rich fur 25 Install new 
conductors 28 Provide 
footnotes 31 Air. antelope 32 "Peyton -" 33 Decorative 
vase 34 Program of 
events 35 "Over-" 36 Mild oath 37 Actress Hagen 38 S. Korean city 39 Athenian 
statesman 40 Fragrant 42 Petition 43 Orono's state 44 Decree 45 Grain bristle 47 Relative 
olatmo 48 Nabokov 
heroine 51 Mata­52 Derby winner 55 Word of sorrow 56 Rye disease 57 Nobleman 58 Barbara-
Geddes 59 KeatoR of films 60 Gaelic 
DOWN 1 Places 2 Particle 3 From-to 
THA"D' FU9HTO.J; 71£ RE'I> BAA S'niND5 R:R 
THE~~~ 
187. THE' a.ue-8AR 
STA'Jl>S FOR l"Hf" 5ek' HAWI<S ' ro-w. 'r'AR()\GE', 101. 
An Rights Reserved  
4 Hall a score  
5 Render  
harmless  
6 Wads  
7 Contused  
8-a Ia mode  
9 Fill with  
delight  
10 Derby winner  
11 Exude slowly  
12 Lager or bock  
15 Young salmon  
17 Show position  
22 Woodwind  
23 Reddeer  
24 Tangle  
25 Happen again  
26 Happily  
27 Derby winner  
28 Alaska native  41 Sahara green  47 Simple plant  
29 Vestige  spot  48 -cry (quite  
30 Wltchol­ 42 Pittsburgh  different)  
32 Rlngup  player  49 Actress Diana  
35 Adolescent  44 Arsonist e.g.  50 Autopart  
38 QEDword  45 Jezebel's  53 Onassls  
38 Narrow cut  husband •  54 Golf ball  
39 Drawoll  46 Chest sound  support  

C>1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc ,
Friday's Solutton 
Berke Breathed 

The Far Side Gary Larson 
WEtL WJtrWN Me 
'IfA!!tll"'t/1& ~ 
flflc t!TCKATUKc AK(JIJNO ~.1/ FM.. I 
' -~ '-'-:= t~\C~ ~ 
• ' I 
' ' 
llj))ocac:::-...;] 
Kevin Walsh 

IX£I ON vou TE'L.L us 
THE' l>IFFE:RENC.£ 
9El'l£eN THE'1\Xl~? 

While the city slept, Dogzllla moved quietly from building to building. 
' 
Campus 

•4:00 
P.M. ·Field Hockey, Notre Dame vs. Lake Forest, Alumni Field 

•7:00 
P.M. · Monday Night FUm Series, "Hamlet", Annenberg Auditorium 

•7:00 
P.M. · Communication.and Theatre Film, "A Sense of Loss", Center for Social Con­cerns Auditorium 

•7:00 
P.M. · Lecture, "An Introduction To Natural Family Planning", Mr. and Mrs. Tim Fulnecky, Hayes-Healy Auditorium, Sponsored by University Ministry 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Pot Roast Ala Mode Chicken Tetrazini Lasagna Grilled Pastrami & Cheese Sandwich 
TV Tonight 
6:00P.M. 6:30P.M. 
7:00P.M. 
8:00P.M. 
8:30P.M. 9:00P.M. 

16  N~enter 16  
:Z:Z  22 Eyewitness News  
16  MASH  
:Z:Z  lbrce's Company  
16  TV's  Bloopers  and  Pnctlcal  
Jokes  

:Z:Z Scarecrow and Mn. IOns 
28 Hardcastle and McCormick 
16 NBC Monday Night at the Movies: Family Ties Vacation 
2:Z CBS Special Movie: "lzzy and Moe" 
28 NFL Monday Night Football: LA. Rams at Seattle 
34 Black Maflic 

46 Calvary Temple 
34 Quest foe Killen: "The Valleys ofSt. Luda" <66 Lesea Alive 
•7:00 
P.M. · Meeting, Christo Rey Prayer Group Meeting, Center for Social Concerns library 

•7:00 
P.M.· 8:00P.M. -InterviewWorkshop, Interview Training, Kate Dascenio, Assistant Director Career and Placement Services, Memorial library Lounge, Career and Place­


ment Services  
•7:30  P.M.  -OflPUllzadonal  Meeting,  
Ombudsman,  LaFortune  little  Theater,  
Sponsored by Ombudsman  

10:00P.M. 
10:30P.M. 
ll:OOP.M. 
11:30P.M. 
U:OOA.M. U:30A.M. 1:00A.M. :Z:OOA.M. 
Saint Mary's Baked Ham Beefand Vegetable Stir Fry French Bread Pizza Mushroom Cheese Strata 
16 N~enter Jb :Z:Z 22 Eyewitness News 34 The Edge ofSurvival 46 Church Growth International 
16  Tofll8ht Show  
:Z:Z  Simon  and  Simon/CBS  Late  
Movie  
46  Ught and Uvely  
:Z8  Newswatch 28  

34 FUm Du jour: "Made For Each 
Other" 

46 Praise the Lord 
16 Late Night with David Letter· man 
Z8 ABC NC'WS Nightllne 
Z8 Eye on Hollywood 
16 Allin the: Family 
Z2 Nightwatch 
46 Independent Network News 
Hey Mate! 
JDhe-~ needsyou.The news department Is accepting applications for 
Copy Editor 

For more Information contact Frank Llpo 

/ 
at 239-5313 or stop In 
at The Observer office. 
Deadline for applications 
Is 5 p.m. w~:.n,n.co,ennv 

The Observer is now accepting applications for 
Assistant Systems Manager 
This is a salaried position and responsibilities include: 
• 
Supervise operation of16-user Alpha Micro computer system. 

• 
Routine software and hardware maintenance. 

• 
Oversee operation ofLinotron 101 phototypesetter. 

• 
Monitor and coordinate typesetting staffand schedule. 


,. For more information or an application, contact MarkJohnson at The Observer, 239·5303. 
• • • Applications due by Friday, October 4. • • • 
CANCER. 
NOT 
KNOWING 
THE RISKS 
ISYOUR 
GREATEST 
RISK. 


Monday, September 23, 1985-page 16 
Notre Dame uses tough defense to whip MSU 

Notre Dame linebacker Rick DiBernardo (43) grabs Michigan State quarterback Bobby McAlister in Saturday night's game against the Spartans. Repeated pressure by the Irish defense forced 
Much-maligned defense comes to life an4 conquers Spartan offense 
By MICHAEL}. CHMIEL freshman Bobby McAlister at quar­overall their whole defense is really Sports Writer terback since veteran Dave Yarema tough. was injured in last week's game with "They've also got a good secon­
Defense is the name of the game. Arizona State. The inexperienced dary. They play a basic cover-three And defense was the name of the McAlister promptly got the Spartan and they play it well." game Saturday night as a spirited attack off the ground in his second While the line played an impor­Notre Dame defensive unit led the play from scrimmage with a 27-yard tant role in denying the freshman Irish in overcoming the Michigan pass off ofa play-action fake. the_ time to pass, the Notre Dame State Spartans by a 27-10 score. Following a run up the middle, secondary did well in denying the 
Following a season-opening loss one off-tackle and a 14-yard pass Spartan backs the space to to Michigan by a 20-12 margin, there completion, fleet-footed tailback maneuver. Faced with the talented were cries that the Irish suffered on Lorenzo White ran the ball around White and a running McAlister, the the field from a lack of intensity and the left side of the line and into the Irish coaches went with a so-called spirit. After the Irish won the toss to endzone untouched from the four­"sub-defense" in which they open the game, elected to kickoff, yard line. brought an extra back up close to and subsequently gave up a touch­After the Spartans stopped a five­the line to help with containment. down on the 1Oth play of the game, play Irish drive and got the ball back "One of the things we did many believed that these cries were on their own 20, the Notre Dame defensively was to go into our sub­aparently justified. defense took over. The Irish held defense," said Irish head coach 
The Irish defenders, however, their opponents to only two first Gerry Faust. "We put (Mike) soon proved all critics wrong as they downs the rest ofthe half and 11 for Haywood out there as an extra back, shut down the Michigan State of­the game. After completing his first like an outside linebacker. Most of fense and held them in check for the three passes for 49 yards, the fresh­the time, to the side he (McAlister) rest ofthe game. man completed only one ofhis next sprinted, we were able to contain 
"We were a little over aggressive 14 for six yards and was intercepted him in hoping that Haywood would 
in the first series when we were twice. He was also put out of the come from the backside with his 
over-running the ball and their run­game for part of the third quarter speed and run him down." 
ning back was cutting back against with a ·crushing sack at the hands of With this defensive scheme, 
the field," said Irish linebacker Tony Irish defensive tackle Wally Kleine. Haywood was able to nail the sprint­
Furjanic. "But when we got back to "They're a real good team," said ing quarterback and tailback three 
the sidelines, we settled down and McAlister following the contest. times from his close-up position and 
realized where our mistakes were." "Their strength is their defense. 
In the game, the Spartans used Their defensive line is good, and see DEFENSE, page 12 
Irish volleyball team beats Eastern Kentucky to salvage one victory 
By CHUCK EHRMAN stumbling again, this time at the Lambert also was able to finally Sports Writer hands ofOklahoma, by a score of 15-come up with a starting lineup. He 10,15-8, ll-15, 15-5. has stopped his juggling act and One out of three isn't all that bad. But the Irish changed their luck in decided to go full-steam ahead with And one victory is all the Irish could the next match, taking Eastern Ken­senior Mary McLaughlin, junior manage in a weekend of volleyball tucky to town, opening the Karen Sapp, sophomore Jill Suglich, down south at the Georgia Peach floodgates and sailing to victory in and freshmen Maureen Shea, Mary Classic in Athens. The Irish fell to three games. The team won 15-12, Kay Waller and Whitney Shewman. both Georgia and Oklahoma, but 15-6, 1 5-8. The victory gave the Irish Sophomore Kathleen Morin will were able to knock off Eastern Ken­their second win of the young now spell relief from the bench. tucky. season. Now Lambert only has to overcome 
The Irish were given anything but "The team really bounced back the tragedy of unactualized paten· a warm welcome by Georgia on against Eastern Kentucky," said Lam­tial. Friday night. Once again, the script bert. "The girls finally pulled them­Although it is too early to turned to a familiar ending · a loss selves together. I think some of the pronounce the Irish cured, the team and an upset coach. freshmen found themselves and are will surely be content ifit can turn in 
"We just gave the game away," beginning to settle down. We're im­a few more carbon copy perfor­said Coach Art Lambert. "We proving." mances of the Eastern Kentucky 
Brown's 93-yard TD return highlights Irish victory 
ByMARlY BURNS that the 1-1 Spartans might just be Sports Writer able to commit this larceny, as Notre Dame self-destructed on two 
The prodigal Notre Dame football lengthy second-quarter drives, al­team made a homecoming of sorts lowing Michigan State to go to the Saturday evening as it struck down halftime tied with the Irish at 7-7. an overmatched Michigan State "I thought we did a decent job team, 27-10, in front ofa part.is:i.n sel­when we went in at halftime tied 7­lout crowd in a provisionally il­7," said Michigan State head coach luminated Notre Dame Stadium. George Perles. "They (the Irish) had 
When it was all over, those 59,075 a lot of opportunities and just didn't fans in attendance were prepared to cash in on them." kill the fatted calf for their 1-1 Irish, Notre Dame quarterback Steve who atoned nicely for last Beuerlein, who completed 1 5 passes weekend's flat showing against Mic­in 27 attempts for 217 yards and one higan by correcting many of the touchdown, took the blame for both areas in which fatal sins had oc· of the bungled opportunities. The curred. first mistake occured early in the 
This time, a spirited Notre Dame period after the Irish had driven 53 
unit used a more wide-open passing yards from their own 20 to the Spar­
game, an agressive defense, some tan 27. Head Coach Gerry Faust or­
bold coaching moves and even dered his troops to go for it on 
issued a complete reversal of form fourth-and-one, and called the right 
on the opening kickoffofthe second play, a play-action pass to a wide 
half. And what's more, the Irish did open fullback, Frank Starns, in the 
all this before their home crowd, right flat. Beuerlein, though, put too 
which had been witness to a mere much on the pass and it sailed over 
four victories in the last twelve at­the head ofStarns. 
tempts on the home sod. Later in the period, after the 
"It's a shame it takes a loss to wake junior signal-caller had hit flanker 
you up," said Notre Dame tailback Tim Brown for 12 yards and a first 
Allen Pinkett, who rushed for 116 down at the Michigan State 8-yard 
yards and one touchdown on 25 line, he rolled left and threw an easy 
carries. "But there is a pride factor. interception into the gut of Spartan 
We didn't feel we had defended our safety Paul Bobbitt at the goalline. 
home stadium the way it should "I take the blame for both ofthose 
have been." times," said Beuerlein. "On the 
Irish outside linebacker Mike second one, I was rushing because 
Larkin, who sprained hi!) left ankle the 25-second clock was running 
near the end ofthe game, and who is down, and I didn't analyze the 
listed as questionable for next coverage right. I thought it was a 
week's contest at Purdue, concurred man-to-man but it was a zone. I'm 
with teammate Pinkett when asked human and I make mistakes. I'm just 
about the enthusiasm shown by the glad they (the Irish coaches) kept 
squad. faith in me." 
"This was our stadium, our Faust certainly had faith in Brown 
home," said Larkin, one offour cap­last season as he inserted the fresh­
tains on the team. "Michigan State man speedster from Dallas, Tex. as 
wanted to take from us what was the opening kickoff returner against 
rightfully ours." 

It appeared for awhile, however, see IRISH, page 12 

The Oboenu/Paul Pahoresky · 
handed it to them."  Improving they are. Eastern Ken­ match.  Sophomore flanker Tim Brown (81) jumps over Michigan State  
The Bulldogs whipped the Irish in  tucky was no slouch. Earlier in the  Next up on the schedule is a road  defenders as he returns a Spartan kickoff Brown returned a later  
three straight games, 15-5, 15-7, 15­ season they beat Kentucky, a team  trip  to  Purdue  this  Wednesday.  kickoff93 yardsfor a touchdown and caught a 49-yardpass to set  
12.  that walloped the Irish in the season  Hopefully  the  Irish  can  pick  up  up another score. For more on the game, see Marty Burns' story  
Saturday morning found the Irish  opener. So things are looking better.  where they left off.  above.  






