-------~~-----·--~------------~ ---------~-----.... 
Ax tnurders -page 3 
VOL XIX, NO. 75 thl' indl'pl'ndl'nt ~tudl'nt 
Enthusiastic students check out lower prices at new store's opening 
By MARKS. PANKOWSKI tive to the bookstore," said NeutSStaff Cavanaugh seniorJoe Pangilinan. "I see these notebooks here 
'Ibe Notre Dame Student Saver cheaper than they were in the the Store opened its doors yesterday to bookstore," said John Gardiner, a an enthusiastic crowd ofstudents on Stanford sophomore. "It's good to the second floor of LaFortune Stu­see that the Student Government is dent Center. offering a viable service for the stu­
Comments about the new store dents." ranged from "it's a good idea" to "it's Most of the negative comments the greatest supersaver ever as­made were complaints about the sembled by a human being." lack of college-ruled notebooks and 
The student store manager, Rick health and beauty items. Schimpf Schimpf, was very happy with the hopes to remedy those problems in response ofthe student body. the coming days. 
"We had 15 to 20 people standing "I'm working with our distributor outside before we even opened," to make sure the health and beauty said Schimpf. "We made $450 the aids will be in tomorrow (Jan. I8)­first hour," he said, adding, Monday at the latest." "Business is fantastic." Regarding the college-ruled 
Most people who came into the notebooks, Schimpf said, "In the Student Saver were there for one report given by the committee, they reason: to save money. 
see STORE, page 6 "This is definitely a better alterna-
Ethiopia blocked aid, 
U.S. officials charge 
Associated Press McPherson said the recent sei­
WASHINGTON-The govern­zure by the Ethiopian government of 
ment of Ethiopia has blocked the 6,000 tons of food in an Australian 
delivery oftons ofemergency Amer­cargo ship was intended to prevent 
ican food aid to areas of civil war in delivery of the aid to two northern 
Remembering Kine: 
that country, an action that threat­provinces in Ethiopia where Sophomore Dtma Philips leads t'f.f: gospel Tillman and also included a biography of King 
ens to spread starvation, U.S. officials separatists have been battling gov­choir at last nights Martin Luther King Jr. com­read by Tillman and personal reflections on King 
said yesterday. ernment troops. memorative program in Sacred Heart Church. Tbe by Dr.joseph Scott. 
"It is just unconscionable," said "The starving people simply can­program was led by Master ofCeremonies Dennis Peter McPherson, administrator of not be pawns," McPherson said. the Agency for International Devel­"The conflict has made it (the opment, describing restrictions on famine) worse, and made it particu­
Permission granted for weddings
the movement of food shipments to larly difficult to move food around." provinces in northern Ethiopia. While the United States has been McPherson and Chester Crocker, channeling some assistance through 

at Church of Our Lady of Loretto
assistant secretary of state for Sudan to the disputed areas, African affairs, testified before the McPherson said trucks carryingfood ANN KALTENBACH ested in being married on campus; have one wedding per weekend a': Senate Foreign Relations Committee across Ethiopia are stopped by gov­StaffReporter and we needed to respond," said the church." 
on Reagan administration requests ernment troops. Mary Pat Feeley, director of Campus The church is available at I p.m. for an additional S235 million for To some extent, he said, the Et­Reinforcing its commitment to Ministry. and weddings should begin at 2 p.m. famine-stricken African countries. hiopian rebels are also to blame for the formation ofa family ofChristian With the recent approval, only Mayefske said the first wedding 
Sen. Richard Lugar, R-Ind., the using food as a weapon to advance believers, Saint Mary's has recently students and alumnae ofSaint Mary's took place Thanksgiving weekend 
new committee chairman, said that their cause. b~en granted permission to perform are permitted to be married at the with relatively few problems and II as a result of the Ethiopian policies, Crocker said although there is a wedding ceremonies at the Church Church ofLoretto. weddings are now on the schedule "There are millions being starved of Our Lady ofLoretto. Saint Mary's has been working for for this year. out." see FOOD, page 6 "So many alumnae were inter-approval of weddings in the church Noting the plans involved for mar­

Hehir will address SMC gradu:ates 
By ANNE MONAS1YRSKI ican Catholic Bishops. In addi­sembly in 1973 and as Advisor for 
Saint Mary's Editor tion, he is Senior Reserach U.S. Bishops at the fV Interna­
Scholar, Kenney Institute of Et­tional Synod of Bishops in Rome 
United States Catholic Confer­hics, and Research Professor of in 1974 among the several other 
ence member Father Bryan Hehir Ethics and International Politics, committee positions. 
will be the keynote speaker and School ofForeign Service, both of The Lowell, Mass., native was 
honorary degree recipient for Georgetown University in Wash­born Aug. 22, 1940. He earned 
Saint Mary's 138th commence­ington, D.C. his Bachelor of Arts degree in 
ment exercises on May 18, Tbe Hehir's affiliations include Philosophy and his Master of 
Observer has learned. memberships on the Board of Divinity (Theology) from Saint 
Hehir, who was the principal Directors for Bread for the John's Seminary, Boston, Mass. 
adviser in the American Catholic World, on the Advisory group for He earned his Th.D. i.n Applied 
Bishops' recent letter on nuclear the United Nations Association Theology from Harvru:d Divinity 
war, is not a stranger to Saint Multilateral Project, Interna­School specializing in Ethics and 
Mary's. He has visited Saint tional Advisory Council for International Politics. 
Mary's twice before, once as a African-American Institute, Hehir is also ~uthor of 
visiting speaker in 1981 as part of Council on Foreign Relations, numerous publications on social 
the Justice Education lecture se­American Society for Christian justice and human rights includ­
ries. Ethics, and Catholic Theological ing contributing articles for 
Hehir is Secretary of the De­Society ofAmerica. America and Commonweal 
partment of Social Development Hehir has served as a member magazines. 
and World Peace ofthe U.S. Cath­ofVatican Delegation to U.N. Spe­Hehir was named a MacArthur 
olic Conference, in Wa~hington cial Session on Disarmament in fellow last year of the .MacArthur 
D.C., a civil organizati<m ofAmer-1978 and to the U.N. General As-Foundation. 
for the past year, according to Saint riage in the church, Mayefske said, Mary's Chaplain Father Tom "It is a tremendous amount of work Mayefske. "The question was raised because so much is done by phone with Bishop McManus (bishop of and correspondence. If couples the Fort Wayne-South Bend, Ind., could come in and discuss their diocese) in August of 1983," said plans, it would be much easier. The Mayefske. "At first, he was opposed problem is that the couples are scat­to it, but gradually, by Oct. 1, 1984, tered all over the country. Unlike a he finally granted permission." usual wedding, the mother can't do 
Holy Cross Junior College and everything, thereby requiring much Saint Francis College were also more work for the bride." among those Catholic schools re­"The biggest problem," added ceiving permission from the bishop Mayefske, "is choosing a priest to to perform weddings on their perform the ceremony. Often, the campuses. girl loses touch with her parish 
priest or he is transferred during her 
Previously the Church of Loretto college years and they really don't was prohibited from holding wed­know any priests to ask." dings because it is not a parish In order to make wedding ar­church. rangements, Saint Mary's students 
"Notre Dame's Sacred Heart and alumnae should make reserva­Church is a parish church, however, tions in the liturgy office of the so it did not need to be given this Church of Our Lady of Loretto with permission," explained Mayefske. Wedding Coordinator Julie Frazier 
"The Church of Our Lady of at least four months before the mar­Loretto belongs to the Sisters of the riage. In turn, campus ministry is Holy Cross so that their approval contacted to make further arrange­was needed to open the church to ments. student and alumnae weddings," said Feeley. "The sisters agreed to 
see CHURCH, page 6 


The Observer Friday,January 18, 1985-page 2 

·In Brief 
Yale students want more sex, according to a 
non-scientific survey there. Seventy-four percent would like more sex in their lives, although 81 percent already consider themselves "somewhat" to "very" sexually active. The survey was conducted by the Alliance for Sexual Progress, a student group promoting more open discussion ofhuman sexuality. At Duke University, meanwhile, a study by the Peer Information Service for Counseling and Educa­tion in Sexuality found students think there is more sexual activity on campus than there really is. While a majority ofstudents thought 60 percent to 80 percent of Duke males had engaged in intercourse, only 31 percent ofthe men surveyed said they had actually had inter­course. The survey will be used to develop counseling and informa­tion programs. · The Observer 
A man who burst into a church in Alpena, 
Mich., during services bit a worshipper on the face, shouted at the congregation and ripped apart a pulpit before being arrested, police said Wednesday. David Ferrari, 34, ofAlpena, was arraigned Tuesday on a charge ofassault with intent to maim, a felony punishable by 10 years in jail and a S5,000 fine, said state police Detective Sgt. Fred l..aBarge. Ferrari, jailed in lieu of S20,000 bond, is accused of biting Timothy Troupe, 21, above the left eye Sunday when Troupe tried to restrain the man who disrupted services at the Church of God of Prophesy, l..aBarge said. The bite required skin grafs, the trooper said. A companion of Ferrari, Carl Calo, 28, of Alpena, was arrested on charges ofresisting and obstructing a police officer,l..aBarge said. 
Researchers have identified the 9,ooo-pius 
"dots and dashes" of the genetic code that governs activities of the suspected AIDS virus, a step that could help in diagnosis, prevention and maybe treatment of the deadly disease, scientists said yesterday in New York. "You never know the full ramifications" of mapping out the chemical sequence ofa virus's genes, said Dr. Robert Gallo of the National Cancer Institute in Bethesda, Md., where one team of researchers is based. Another team of researchers is at the Pasteur Institute in Paris and still another at the Chiron Corp. in Emeryville, Calif. Each research group got its AIDS virus from a different source, and "it will be very interesting to have all these (genetic identifica­tions) published so that finally, one can know whether everyone has the same virus or a different virus, or If they are different, what the nature of their differences is," said l..acy Overby, Chiron vice presi­dent. -AP 

Of Interest 
ASuperbowlSuitcase Partyfor the sophomore 

class will award one sophomore with a trip for two to the Superbowl. The winner will choose another sophomore at the dance to accom­pany him or her to Palo Alto, Calif. The party will get underway tonight at 9 and last until 2 a.m. The cost for sophomores is 55. Members of other classes are invited to enjoy the food, disc jockey and dancing for S1, but are not eligible to win the trip. -The Observer 
An Engineering Book Swap is being 

sponsored by the Joint Engineering Council. Drop off books today from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the Engineering Student Center (Room 218 Cushing). The sale will be from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. on Monday. -The Observer 
How to Beach the Winter Blues Dance is 

today from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. in the Haggar College Center at Saint Mary's. The dance, sponsored by student government, is part of a new event which beganJan. 17. Tickets are on sale for 51.50 each or two for S2 in all Saint Mary's halls and dress is beach attire. There will be a raffle at I0:30pm for two free trips to Florida for spring break.­
The Observer 
Weather 
Snowtoday,or at least a 70 percent chance of it. The high will be in the low 20s early today, but by this afternoon tempera­tures will fall to the upper teens. Tonight and to morrow will be much colder and blustery with a chance of snow showers and a fairly steady temperature of 5 to 10 degrees. -AP 

Today's issue was produced by: 
Design Editor................. Maureen Murphy Design Assistant ............. Matt Gracianette Layout Staff....................... )cnnlfcr & Ruth Typesetters .................................... Vic Sciulli lbe Observer (USPS W9 l-4000) is Mary Ellen Harrington published Monday through Friday and News Editor ........................... Marc Ramirez on home f<x>tbail Saturdays, except Copy Editor .............................. )ane Kravclk during exam and vacation periods. lbe Sports Copy Editor ....................... Phil Wolf Observer is published by the studenL' of Viewpoint Copy Editor.......john Mennell the University of Notre Da'!'e and Saint Viewpoint Layout ................John MenneII Mary's College. Subscriptions may be Features Copy Editor............... Mary Healy purcha"'d for $30 per year ( $20 per se· Features Layout ........................ Mary Healy mester) by writing lbe Observer, P.O. N/J /Jay Editor ......................... Tom Mowle Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46~56. SMC Day Editor ............ Anne Monastyrski 

lbe Observer is a member of lbe Ad Design.................... AnnaMarie Furleigh Associated Pres.~. All reproduction John O'Connor rights are reserved. Photographer ........................... Vic Guarino 
The Observer 
A B.S. in Chem.E. does not equal a Maytag repairman's license 
After struggling through four years of college and paying more than 535,000 for a degree in chemical en­gineering, my father still sighs when I tell him I cannot 
Bob 
fix his telephone. When the front door bell at our house loses its pizazz 
Vonderheide 
or when the digital clock in the station wagon goe1. minutes astray, my father arms himself with his reading Editor-in-chief glasses and battles high technology for a while. Finally, in disgust, he announces to my mother thathe's not the 

engineer and one ought to be found right away. But one day when my 14-year-old sister boiled water 
Thus to me, my father declares: "You're the engineer; for·her tea in 20 seconds, my father put on his "proud­
fix the lawnmower." father face" and said, "Way to work that machine, 
But he doesn't understand. We go away to these fancy Anne." But when she then walked up to the VCR and 
engineering schools to learn theory. Fixing popped in Tender Merdes like a technical pro, Dad had 
lawnmowers is not theory. So I tell him that Ifhe would had enough. 
like me to model the lawnmower's reactor process with Headlines in the newspaper the next day: "Daughter 
a differential equation or analyze its control systems masters high technology as Dad looks on." My mother 
with l..aPlace transforms, I'd be happy to oblige. grieved too. As she admitted later, "I'm not even sure 
But when he asks me to see why the green thin-how to turn the bloomin' thing on." gumajig on the I..awnBoy has I won't even mention the
G broken off into disaster ofthe wire-less tele­the...the...isn't that the car-phone. l..et's just say it buretor?..., I just tell Dad that arrived during Christmas I am soon to be a profes-1983 and was gone by sional and professionals do Christmas 1984. Its new not tend to thingumajigs. home? My brother's apart-
How wrong I am. My ment in Philadelphia. His older brother, a mechanical roommate is an engineer engineer with a couple years too. experience, informs me that Don't get me wrong. I'm thingumajig-fixing can make not saying that my parents up the better part of a work are technical illiterates. day. Infrared microscopy is After all, we do have an auto-terrific, but not ifthe neutral matic garage-door opener density filter is broken. and a self-defrosting freezer. Thermogravimetric analysis It's just that my parents grew is great, but not if the DSC up when technology hadn't processer vibrates too much I'm su.-e f'.\at yo~.tr 50,.. ca~ f'ix it_ exploded all over the front nearby. f , . pages yet. My sister and I 
Just last night, as we 0 fer all, nes filte e~tr~eer. have grown up with video watched the Cosby Show, our vertical hold didn't. A games, powerful stereos, fast food, foreign cars -you friend -a Program of liberal Studies friend -who was name it. Ifit's plastic or electronic, we youngfolks know sitting no farther from the set than I asks me to mend the about it. problem. After all, "you're the engineer, Bob. Fix the So don't worry, Mom and Dad. You have two sons lV." who are engineers, and when the going gets tough, we'd 
So I whipped out my circuits textbook, calculated a be more than happy to fix your lawnmower anytime. few resistances and inductances and solved the vertical-But just remember: your children's biggest asse t is hold crisis. their era, not their smarts. 
As little as I appreciate having my forthcoming B.S. in And in the meantime, if the VCR breaks again, storm Chem.E. mistaken for a Maytag repairman's license, into the retail store and announce boldly to the kid be-technology has been much worse on my parents. hind the counter: "You're the Yuppie, fix my VCR!" 
This Christmas, for example, saw the rapid growth of high technology at the Vonderheide household. Avideo cassette recorder (my father's project) and a micro­
Help Prevent Birth Defects­
wave oven (my mother's) top the list. Each of them have tackled their new pieces of hard­
The Nation's Number One 
ware fiercely. Dad has taped a few movies and ball 
Child Health Problem. 
games, and Mom has turned out an entire turkey dinner using the microwave. 
ATTENTION SOPHOMORESI
We Need You! 
If you were closed out of Theology 200
Work for 2 hours a week lay­
ing out a daily newspaper. 
Foundations of Theology: Biblical/ 
Stop in at The Observer of­
Historical (the first required course), 
fices for an application. 
we have.GOOD NEWS. We have 
Spots open for 2nd semester 
opened three new sections at various times. There are spaces available.
The .Observer 
Come by the Theology Office, 340 
3rd floor, LaFortune Student Center 
O'Shaughnessy and sign up. 


USED FURNITURE 
AND ' 
SMALL ELECTRICAl APPLIANCES (couches, chairs, beds,. coffee pots•...you name it, we 
probably have it I)
• 
. 
I 
BEST PRICES IN TOWN! .~ 
Goodwill . 
1805 western 

Eddy and HC?ward
~ 
M-S: 9:30-5:30

(across from Nickies) 
Friday open till7:00

M-T: 9-7, F: 9-8
1tj·ll·ll·ll·lwlll 
Sun.: 12-3 

Sat: 9-5:30 
I 






In a continuing effort to bring you the rrwsic and fun you want ... L.S. Holmes, 
M.E.C. productions, and the Special Events commission present ... 

-~-~ ---------~----------------~ 
The Observer 
Helen Hayes endows scholarship to honor former College presidt~nt 
By DIANE PRESTI woman whom I adored and who was tion. It is also a fitting remembrance StaffReporter such a valuable friend in my life. ofher friend, Sister Maddeva, on the "She was so devoted to the arts, 20th anniversary ofSistc!r's death." 
In memory of Sister Madeleva being one ofthe top poets ofour his­From 1955 to 1964, Hayes and WolfJ, C.S.C., president of Saint tory, one of the shining lights of W olfJ maintained close contact and, Mary's College from 1936 to 1961, American poetry, and she loved the on several occasions, Hayes visited actress Helen Hayes has endowed a theatre. She was a darling, an abso­campus. scholarship fund of 550,000 to the lute darling. She had such a twin­In 1960, Hayes appc!ared in the college. kling humor," said Hayes. role of Mrs. Antrobus in Thornton 
Wilder's Pulitzer Prize-winning play, 
Hayes and W olfJ became friends Hayes appeared in an episode ot "The Skin of Our Teeth," in in 1955 when Hayes was the guest of the television series "Highway to O'Laughlin Auditorium. Spending honor at the dedication of Heaven" this fall in order to raise the two weeks on campus, Hayes di­O'Laughlin Auditorium and Moreau money for the gift. rected student actors and per­Fine Arts Building. Hayes said the en­"We deeply appreciate Miss formed to capacity crowds. dowment "is something I have Hayes' gift," said Saint Mary's Presi­The scholarship will be called the wanted to do for a long time .... I dent John Duggan. "Her scholarship Sister Madel eva W olfJ Scholarship just thought that it would make me will allow many young women to and will be given out b~.sed on merit happy to remember this wonderful benefit from a Saint Mary's educa-and need. 
J3lakey named as O'Neill professor 
Spedal to The Observer 
and Dorothy O'Neill Professor of 
Racketeer-Influenced and Corrupt Education for Justice. 
Organization provision of the 1970G. Robert Blakey, a Notre Dame 
"During his distinguished career, 
Organized Crime Control Act.
law professor and nationally 
Professor Blakey has attracted na­
recognized authority on organized He also served as chiefcounsel to
tional recognition for his participa­
crime, has been appointed William the congressional committee that
tion in our nation's lawmaking
and Dorothy O'Neill Professor at investigated the assassination of
process," said Provost Timothy
Notre Dame. PresidentJohn F. Kennedy. His book
O'Meara. "Combined with his excel­
"We are especially indebted to on Kennedy's murder, "The Plot to
lence as a professor of law, Bob 
the O'Neill family for its generosity Kill the President," is the most
Blakey has taken prominent places
and its insight to recognize the Uni­recent ofhis three books. Blakey and
in both the academic arena and our 
versity's contemporary needs in his wife, Elaine, have five children. 
country's judicial proceedings."
higher education," said Father O'Neill was born in Cleveland, Theodore Hesburgh, Notre Dame Blakey received bachelor's and Ohio, and graduated .from the Uni­president. "Through this family's law degrees from Notre Dame versity in 1928. He founded support, Notre Dame's educational before serving as a special attorney Leaseway Transportation Corp., one mission has broadened to cover an in the Justice Department's organ­ofthe nation's largest 1ransportation academic spectrum ranging from so­ized crime and racketeering section. companies serving motor vehicle cial justice to federal legal theory." He joined the University's law fac­transportation. A former national 
The O'Neill Chair is the second ulty in 1964. During a leave of ab­polo champion, he wa:> a trustee and University chair endowed by funds sence beginning in 1969, he served the first lay president ofthe Gilmour from the Ohio couple. In 1980 Dr. as chief counsel on the U.S. Senate Academy in Gate Mills, Ohio. He Denis Goulet was appointed William committee that drafted the died in 1983. 
AUDITIONS AUDITIONS AUDITIONS AUDITIONS 
ELECTRA by Sophocles 7:00P.M. 
Monday, January 21, O'Laughlin, Saint Mary's Colle~~e Tuesday, January 22, Washington Hall, Notre Dame Audition information and materials available in COTH Department offices:· The Loft,O'Shaughnessy (ND) and 110 Moreau Hall (SMC) 
N'-..")lRE ~f\M~ 
Auditions open to all 
SNNT MAR'/5 
Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Stud~~nts
IHEAT~ 
ByJOHN GORI.A 
StaffReporter 
A 17-year-old St. Joseph County 
youth described by authorities as 
"very quiet," was charged Wednes­
day,Jan. 9, with the ax murder ofhis 
parents on New Year's Day. Police 
said the son had "contemplated the 
killings for three weeks to a month." 
The suspect, Dale Whipple, of Lydick, Ind., has been formally charged with two counts of murder in the death of his parents. Arraign­ment continued yesterday for the second day. No bail has been set for Whipple because bail is not given to murder suspects in Indiana. 
Police reported the investigation began Jan. 2 after Whipple and his 13-year-old sister were stopped by police in South Bend for driving their car in an erratic manner. 
When approached, Whipple said he and his sister were driving to a police station to report the murder oftheir parents, police said. 
However, court documents say Whipple later admitted to inves­tigators that he lured his mother into the garage and struck her with an ax, then attacked his father he slept. 
He also told police he threw the ax he used i~the killings into nearby 
Bass Lake, where divers recovered it 
several days later, according to 
court documents. 

William Richardson of the St. Joseph County Sheriff Department said earlier the children apparently left home without their parent's permission during the early evening New Year's Day, but he refused to elaborate. 
Richardson also has confirmed published reports that the motive for the murder may have been the objections of Whipple's parents to his relationship with a woman nearly twice his age. However, aut­horities have declined to release any specific details. 
The accused youth's sister was held in a juvenile detention home but has since been released. She has not been charged with any crime. "There has not been enough evidence to make any charges, but an investigation is continuing," said a spokesperson for the St. Joseph's County Prosecutor's office. 
Whipple, represented by attorney Charles Asher, will appear before Su­perior Court Judge Robert Miller Jr. on May 13. 
A murder charge in Indiana carries a maximum penalty of 60 years in prison upon conviction. 

Sophomores are able to 
Tickets on sale•••••Today: 12:30-5;:00 at S.A.B. Record Store 
attend Super Bowl Suitcase drawing after show prior 
Tickets also available at Haggar Center, SMC.
to 12 midnight 
Tickets: $4.50 J!'re-party $5.00 at tlae door see Suburbs page 8 
-

---~~----------­
The Observer 
Late shipment postponed opening 
of student-run store, supplier says 
By MIRIAM HILL holiday. When Goshert tried to health and beauty aids should arrive 
Senior StaffReporter place the order for the Notre Dame some time within the next week. 
store, he discovered Tamco had 
A delay in the delivery of inven­closed for two weeks. Store manager Rick Schimpf said 
tory caused the Notre Dame student the delay did not affect sales at the 
store to postpone its opening from Goshert said he did not see delays store. Schimpf did not believe stu­
jan. 16tojan. 17. of this sort occurring in the future, dents had purchased school supplies 
but added "the real big problem is at the bookstore when the student 
jim Goshert, the store's supplier, that they (Tamco) only deliver once store did not open on time. "The 
said the delay occurred because every two weeks. The only real solu­bookstore isn't really our competi­
Tamco, Inc., a wholesale firm, failed tion is weekly delivery." tion because we serve a different 
to inform him it would not deliver The student store received all its market of students," Schimpf ex­
for two weeks during the Christmas school supplies yesterday, and plained. 
1985-86 room contracts due Feb. 4 
~clal to The Observer tract, or has lost one, he or she can moved on campus recently should 
obtain a duplicate card in the Office check with the Office of Student 
Residence hall contracts for the of Student Residences prior to Feb. Residences if they do not receive a 198S-86 academic year have been 4. contract for the 1985-86 academic sent to the residence halls. Students year in their mail. now living on campus must sign and Students who plan to move off return their contracts to the Office campus should mark their contracts Anyone on the waiting list for on ofStudent Residences on the second "OC" and turn them in to facilitate campus housing who has not been floor of the Administration Building the return of the 550 room deposit contacted should check with Stu­before S p.m. on Feb. 4 ifthey desire after the spring semester has ended. dent ~esidences to be certain a cur­to live on campus in the fall. rent tefeJ?hone number is on his or 
Ifa student did not receive a con-Transfer students who have her reco'}J. 
'Prince of Mime' is coming to Saint Mary's 
Speclal to The Observer "Funny Faces" with Red Skelton. He During the show, he was challenged 
also appears in television commer­to a "mime fight" by boxer Muham­
Mime artist Keith Berger will per­cials for national companies such as mad Ali. form at 8 p.m., Friday, Jan. 25, in Chevrolet. He will perform his "Mime Over ()'Laughlin Auditorium. Dubbed the After studyng mime in France Matter" one-man show at Saint "Prince of Mime" by Marcel Mar­with Marceau and at New York Mary's. Well known for actively in­ceau, Berger has performed before City's American Mime Theatre, volving his audience in his act, presidents and crown heads of Berger gained fame as a New York Berger most enjoys working before Europe. City street mime, once doing a a live college audience. 
hangman routine on the hood of a Tickets are 52 for students and S4 
Berger recently wrote and starred patrol car. general admission, and may be in the off-Broadway play "Broken In 1977, Berger participated per­reserved by calling 284-4626. The Toys" and has appeared in several formed in Inauguration Week Fes­performance is sponsored by Saint movies, including the new HBO film tivies for President Jimmy Carter. Mary's student government. 

Looking for Bargains 
Freshman Mike Trimm looks over the books at yesterday's used book sale sponsored by the Student ActivitiesBoard. The used textbooks were collectedfrom students, along with the prices they wanted to ask for them, on Wednesday. The sale began, wtth typi­cally long lines, yesterday evening. 
Correction 
Because of an editing error, the date of the "I Wish I Were In Florida" party at Backstage! was incorrectly listed in an advertise­ment in yesterday's Obseroer. The correct date of the party at the Mishawaka nightclub is Wednesday,January 23, at 8 p.m. 
•************************************************** 
~ SOPHOMORES SOPHOMORES SOPHOMORES SOPHOMORES ~ 
~ SUPER BOWL " ~ ~ 18> SUITCASE PARTY ~czt ~ 
~ "Come As Your Favorite Team" ~ 
~ Win A Trip To The Super Bowl ~
•: for you and a guest * :• 
: Trip includes: * ~ ~ Airfare • 
• Hotelaccomodations 49ers VS Dolphins -¥ • ~ Super Bowl tix (50yd. line) • Palo Alto • : $100 spending money 10 Party includes: t • per person Food •
• * 
Rules for winner and guest Drinks • 
•. M~c­
: 1. Must be an ND sophomore Dancing: • 2. Must have paid $5 at the door FUN • ~ • 3. Must have a suitcase with him or her ~ 
: Friday, January 18 9-2am in South Dining Hall $5 admission ~ 
• Non-Sophomores may attend party for $1 but are not eligible to attend the trip • • The trip drawing will be after midnight. This allows timefor • : sophomores to attend SUBURB,s concert ~ 
*************************************************** 



-~~-­
The Observer 

Senior AI Novas inspects the stock of the Notre Dame Student Saver Store, which opened its doors for thefirst time yesterday. See Mark Pankowski's story on page onefor more details. 
Observer promotions 
Two members of The Observer staff have been promoted to the newspaper's general board. David Stephenitch, of Canton, Ill., has been named controller of the newspaper. Stephenitch is a junior accounting major. 
Mark Johnson, a junior from Indianapolis, has assumed the posi­tion of systems manager. He is majoring in French and government with second majors in philosophy and CAPP. 
The news department has also announced a promotion. Mary Heilmann, a sophomore English/government major from Pit­tsburgh, has been named one offive copy editors. 
Friday, January 18, 1985-page 5 
Notre IJ~ame received many grants 
Speclal to The Observer 
Notre Dame received $703,262 in grants during November for the sup­port of research, instructional pro­grams, service programs and other projects. Research grants totaled $439,989, including: 
• 
$153,985 from the National In­stitutes ofHealth for research on the protein-metal, ion-lipid interaction in blood coagulation by Dr. Francis Castellino, Kleiderer/Pezold Profes­sor of Biochemistry and dean of the College ofScience. 

• 
SI03,795 from the l'l:ational In­stitutes of Health for a s1udy of the inhibitors of site-speciJic recom­bination by Dr. Michaell1ennewald, assistant professor ofmicrobiology. 

• 
575,052 from the U.S. Depart­ment of Energy for research on the microstructural effects in the 


abrasive wear of metals by Dr. Thomas Kosel, assistant professor of metallurgical engineering. 
• 
561,940 from the National In­stitutes of Health for research on biologically-important furanosyl rings by Dr. Anthony Serianni, assis­tant professor ofchemistry. 

• 
$20,000 from the Lilly Endow­ment, Inc., for support of a visiting professorship in 1986. 

• 
$8,800 from the Chevron Chemical Corp. for research on im­munossay procedures for small molecular weight natural products by Dr. Phillip Klebba, assistant pro­fessor of microbiology. 

• 
53,417 from the Occidental Chemical Corp. for studies of a pilot chemical waste treatment plant by Dr. Charles Kulpa, associate chair­man ofmicrobiology. 


Awards for instructional pro­grams consisted ofa $235,159 grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities for summer in­stitutes on "Moral Thought of Thomas Aquinas" and "Neoplatonism and Medieval Thought" sponsored by the Univer­sity's Medieval Institute. 
Of S20,382 awarded for service programs, S 17,382 went to the Insti­tute for Pastoral and Social Ministry. The remaining S3,000, from the Na­tional Science Foundation, supports business travel costs for the college of Engineering's dean. 
Another $7,732 from the National Aeronautics and Space Administra­tion is in support ofan upcoming on­campus conference on low Reynolds number airfoil aerodynamics organized by Dr. Thomas Mueller, professor of aero­space and mechanical engineering. 

Former 1'aiwanese official held in scandal 
Associated Press 
TAIPEI, Taiwan -'The former head of Taiwan's Military Intelli­gence Bureau has been taken into custody for questioning in a scandal linking agency officer!i with the slaying ofa journalist in California, a government official said yesterday. 
Vice Adm. Wong Shi-lin, 57, direc­tor of the bureau since 1983, was dismissed without explanation by the government on Tue!iday, after it was announced that one of his deputies had been arrested for al­leged involvement in dte death of American political writer Henry liu, 52. 

STARTS JANUARY 18th AT A THEATRE NEAR YC,U. 
Authorities said the deputy, Col. Chen Hu-men, 47, was implicated in the slaying by two Taiwanese gangsters wanted by San Francisco police in connection with the death. The two are in custody in Taiwan. 
liu, who had written articles criti­cal of the Nationalist Chinese gov­ernment in Taiwan, was gunned down Oct. I 5 by two assailants in the garage of his home in Daly City, Calif. 
He had worked in Taiwan before emigrating to the United States in the 1970s and was reported to have finished revising a critical biography of Taiwan President Chiang Ching­kuo shortly before his death. He worked for the Chinese-language San Francisco Journal. 
The government official, who spoke on condition he not be identi­fied, said Wong had been taken into military custody but he declined to say where he was being held. 
Officials of the Foreign and Defense Ministries held an emer­gency meeting to discuss the devel­oping scandal, which has led to concern that the alleged involve­ment of Taiwan officials in a slaying in the United States might damage U.S.-Taiwan relations. No statement was issued about the meeting. 

Chiang, reportedly furious over ., 
,
the alleged involvement of military intelligence officials in the slaying, on Wednesday ordered a special committee to "spare no effort to find out the truth and punish those re­sponsible, no matter what their rank," according to government sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity._ 
The two gangsters said to have im­plicated the military intelligence of­ficials in liu's death were arrested in November in an anti-crime sweep in Taiwan. 
San Francisco prosecutors have issued warrants charging one of them, Chen Chi-li, 39, with his death. Wu Tung is still being inves­tigated in connection with the slaying. 
Taiwan has no extradition treaty with the United States, and govern­ment sources have declined to say whether Chen and Wu would be taken to the United States to face trial. 
l 

1
, 
1 
,1 


50% Off Frames 

ChooH •ny •lyle from our entire fr•m• Hlectlon including Halston. Pierre Cardin and Yves St. Laurent. Then take 50% off the regular price. Offer good with this coupon and student/faG,.ulty identification when ordering a complete P!iir of prescnption glasses only. Broken ........ repl•ced
I or r-lred •t no cluol"le for -ye•r. No other discounts apply 
I 
I South Bend: Scottsdale Mall 291-2222 Elkhart: Concord Mall875-7472 
E8
I Offices throughout Indiana
I Open All Day Saturday and Sunday Mall Hours PROFESSIONAL EYE EXAMINATION AVAILABLE ~
I ~
BY OPTOMETRIST WITH OFFICE ON PREMISES 
L---------~------~ 

Food 
continuedfrom page 1 
history of bad relations between the United States and the pro-Soviet Et­hiopian government, "there must be means to get food to all those who are at risk." 
More than half of American aid to Africa this year has gone to Ethiopia and the United States is the biggest 
r contributor, he testified. "We have done this in a country 
~ 

The Observer Friday, january 18, 1985-page 6 
Unconscious cues cited as answer to mystery of mathematical canine 
Assoclated Press 
KNIGHTSTOWN, Ind. -The mys­tery of Sheba, Knightstown's math­whiz dog, is solved. 
Richard and Frances Morgan's bright little Spitz-Keeshond has amazed people with an apparent ability to bark out the answers to math problems. 
About two years ago, Mrs. Morgan said, Sheba was bouncing around the kitchen begging for a cracker. 
"I told her, 'I'm going to teach you to count for your crackers,"' Mrs. Morgan said. That afternoon, Sheba learned to bark once when Mrs. Morgan said "one" and held up one finger, twice for two and three times for three. 
It wasn't long before Sheba was counting higher, barking up to 10 and beyond. 
On an impulse, Mrs. Morgan asked Sheba to add two and three. Sheba barked five times and fixed Mrs. Morgan with an expectant gaze. Mrs. Morgan gave Sheba more addition problems. Each time, the little brown dog barked out the correct answer. 
r r  Store  
continuedfrom page 1  
f  only  listed  the  wide-ruled  
~  notebooks.  
r r  "All we did was order from that report. Any additions to that list  
would have to be approved by Fa­ 
r  ther Tyson," said Schimpf. "In the  
~  future we plan to carry the college­ 
~  ruled  notebooks  if  Father  Tyson  
gives us the go-ahead."  
~  

The Morgans found Sheba could do subtraction, multiplication and division. They asked her to solve square roots and cube roots. Sheba rose to each challenge, always eager to please and always with the cor­rect answer. They even taught her to bark out the numbers one through I 0 in response to flash cards. 
A mathematical dog is hard to keep quiet in a town of 2,325 and Sheba soon became a celebrity. Stories about her ran in area news­papers and an Indianapolis televi­sion station did a short piece on her. She was also invited to perform at area schools. 
The Morgans definitely are not the razzle-dazzle showbiz type. Richard is retired from the Air Force and is in charge of transportation for the Knightstown schools. 
When a reporter from The In­dianapolis News visited the Mor­gans, Sheba was working on the alphabet, barking once for the letter A, twice for B, and so on, responding either to flash cards or voice com­mands. 
She impressed the reporter by sol­ving chain calculations like "two times I 5 divided by three minus five." 
The reporter was sure nobody was consciously tipping Sheba, but he was unwilling to say a dog really understood math. 
Enter Erich Klinghammer, associ­ate professor of psychology at Purdue University and director of WolfPark, a facility at Battle Ground dedicated to the study ofwolves. 
Sheba, Klinghammer said, reads body language cues -tiny move­ments of the eyes or head or body ­to know when to stop barking. 
The cuesare given unconsciously, he said, and questioners don't knqw they signal Sheba when she reaches the right number ofbarks. 

The SAB svecial events and campus entertainmPnt committee proudly presents... 
Don Novell£' 
as 
Fr. Guido Sarducci 
live in Washington Hall Saturday, January 19, 1985 Show times: 7:o·o and 9:00 pm Tickets: $5.00 in advance, $6.00 at the door 
AVAILABLE AT TH,E RECORD STORE 
USA TODAY 
$24.50 
all semester DORM DELIVERY 

For more info call JIM 283-2299 
SENIORS 
-TONIGHT­FRIDAY 
whose government over several years has been openly hostile to us (and) which until recently sought to hide the magnitude of this disaster from its own people," Crocker said. 
As a result, he said, "We are not in the best place to bring pressure to bear." He said the United States and other contributing nations will likely ask the United Nations to depoliticize the food deliveries. 
Crocker said the United States would not use the threat of ceasing emergency shipments to force the Ethiopian government to distribute the food more evenly, because that would cause even more starvation. 
McPherson said while most of the public attention has focused on Et­hiopia, Sudan and Kenya have added to the "danger list" ofcountries also threatened with mass starvation. 
As a result, he announced that aid to Sudan has been doubled from I00,000 to 200,000 metric tons of 
U.S. food aid. 
McPherson said civil strife in Mozambique also is inhibiting deliveries of emergency assistance to poor people in that country. 
Besides saving money, students liked the convenience the Student Saver Store afforded them. 
"It's a good option for students without cars," said Pangilinan. "Even for those with cars, it's more of a convenience." 
Students didn't seem to mind the lack of brand named items offered by the store. 
"With school supplies, you don't need brand names," said Maggie Citarella. 
Commenting on the notebook he bought at the Student Saver, Gar­diner said, "It doesn't say Notre Dame on it, but it serves the same purpose." 
Maggie Citarella summed up the feelings of many students who came into the Notre Dame Student Saver Store on its opening day. 
"I think the (student store) is a good idea. The bookstore rips you off," Citarella said, adding, "(The bookstore) charges too much." 

r  
r r r  Church  usual S35 stipend for the presiding priest. The couple is required to enroll in  Monogram Room and South Dining Hall can also be used. A.C.C. DANCE Mayefske said pamphlets with  
r r ' r r r r  continuedfrom page 1 Before final approval can be givc::n, all paper work must be sent to the Fort Wayne-South Bend diocesan of· fice through Saint Joseph's parish in  a Pre-Cana program before mar­riage. In the South Bend area, the couple may choose the "Engaged Encounter" or "The Pre-Cana Retreat." For alumnae living outside the South Bend area, preparations  guidelines for marriage in the campus church can be found in the campus ministry offices, 161-162 ..Relive your Freshmen Year Mixer" Regina. In support ofSaint Mary's new op­-semi-formal attire­tion, Mayefske said, "In the long run  
r  South Bend. Therefore, all required  can  be  made  with  the  parish  in  (due to distance), South Bend ends 9:00pm -1:OOam  
r  documents are due in the office of  which they reside.  up being a common meeting ground  
campus ministry six weeks before  Saint  Mary's  has  also  made  Drink specials early... OJ... Dancingfor couples." 
the wedding.  available Saga, the Haggar College  Ofthe 11 weddings scheduled, ac­21 ID required 
The  Church  of  Our  Lady  of  Center and the Club House for wed­ cording to Mayefske, only three in­ 
Loretto requires a  S65 church fee  ding receptions. At Notre Dame, the  volve  the  "traditional"  Notre  
upon  reservation  along  with  the  Morris  Inn,  University  Club,  . Dame/Saint Mary's couples.  

Tomorrow night Stepan Center rocks ... 
DANCE PARTY 
with 

THE SUBURBS 
Begins at 8:00pm, Friday night Tickets: $4.50 in advance, $5.00 at the door 
Available at the Record Store 
..... presented by the Student Activities Board 
1hm~-.llnm....~~~~~~MB~~ID..~~.--.~~~am~~~--~~~~m~~~~'~•s•in~8D~D'GJ~a.~t~'Gam~o~..-.a.~u~~.as.zt~al~:»sa••~~ia~K~~~~ID1UI•••s•u•~~~~~~ID..~ia--~...-c=·~ll--ng~•--•~~~~~~~~i
... -'·,. 

The Observer Friday,January 18, 1985 ·page 7 


MITCH MEDICH
• ~6-~ J8> DISCJOCJKEY 
~(\p ~ MUSIC-D.Al\lrCING 
Guitar./ Singer 
6:00to8:30
~ 8£ ~ TRIVIA~
t.'"~~6 8:30 to cl4rJse 
§«-'~ 
GreatFood, Drinlc~s, Entertainment 
\DOOR PRIZES\ !CONTESTS\ 
WINI "IATE THE WORM AT ,1'ss AMIGO'S"T-SHIRT 
~ 
~p.S 
IDRAFfBEER $1.00~ 
FROZEN MARGARITAS & COCKTAILS $1.00 
HOURS 
Daily 11:OOam to 10:00pm 
Friday • Saturday 11:OOam to 11:30pm 
l 
1,
Sunday 
,
,
12:00 noon to 9:00pm 
,
, 
l\l,~xicaQ ·Rcstauraqt: 
2313 :E. Edison (at Ironwood) Soutl1l Bend, Indiana 
234-3594 

-



Accent 
Friday,January 18, 1985-page 8 


A love to grow on 
Rev. Robert 

Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
M
any years ago when I was the 
rector of Keenan, a Saint 
Mary's freshman by the name of 
Beth got a crush on me. Don't ask 
me to explain it. She probably 
thought I was kind, and she needed 
kindness. At the beginning, she 
came to the open door of the rec­
tor's room to take a quick look 
inside. She acted like a mouse 
checking the pantry to see if the 
coast is clear, and I couldn't help 
noticing her. She was painfully shy, 
like Bambi, freezing with fear when 
I looked up. Frightened at being 
sighted, she was back again, like a 
game animal in search of the 
hunter. 
I got in the habit of watching for her, to invite her to come in and get acquainted. For a while, I wasn't quick enough. One day I called: "I've been wanting to meet you." She stopped, and let herself be captured. When I asked for her name, I could see she had tears in her eyes. 
She came every afternoon and evening for rapid visits, bringing another Saint Mary's girl to do the talking. Later, she got brave enough to come by herself: for five minutes, for I c; minutes, for an hour, from after supper until her curfew, ifI let her. Ifother students were there, she stayed on the sidelines. Ifwe were alone she left the conversa­tion to me. I could still find hints of tears on her face. 
Keenanites would ask: "Why you, and not us?' 
"The waif who came in from the cold? She's part ofthe package deal that comes with being rector." She was certainly no waifand was as pretty as you hope your mother was as a girl. Keenanites, finding her strange for being attached to the rector, left her alone. They made 

jokes about my having a girlfriend. I 
wouldn't let them know I could see 
she had a crush. 
''I'm giving her lessons on be­

coming a nun," I said. "The or­
phanage appointed me to be her 
honorary uncle." 
I got tired ofentertaining this 

lovely, devoted child. IfI was very 
gentle, the gentleness made her cry. 
IfI looked weary, the weariness 
made her cry. Ifl asked questions 
about her family, nervousness 
brought a flood of tears. It seemed 
wisest to offer her jokes which 
would keep her laughing, only I 
didn't feel like serving her all the 
time as the court jester. Once I told 
her I needed time to myself, and she 
went down to Dainty Maid to buy 
cookies as an apology for being a 
nuisance. 
I could have discouraged her devotion with a brave little speech about her staying in her dorm to study and having a good time with her friends in Regina. She would have read between the lines for the message. "It might break her heart," I thought sentimentally; and then argued with myselfin response: "How much do I know about the toughness ofa young woman's heart?" I could imagine the bloody note ofself-destruction attached to a bunch offorget-me-nots and signed by "the student you didn't have time for," or another reproach equally grim. 
Nothing much is harder to take than the feeling ofbeing depended on in a way you have not freely chosen. I hated looking up from Mass to find those adoring eyes fixed on my face as though I were Elvis giving a private concert to his most loyal fan. I believed that Beth 
had a crush as true-blue as the saints 
loving God. It could last until the 
stars fell on Alabama, or until I did 
something cruel as proof! was 
unworthy as a father-figure, or its 
equivalent, to a lonely girl, who 
may have left home too young. How 
should I know what causes a 
schoolgirl crush? 
I'm too much the gentleman to 
wish to play the cad. I'm too super­
stitious about crushes to treat them 
meanly. No regret leaves you 
feeling more shabby than the one 
that comes at seeing the affection 
offered you grow into indifference 
or hate, because you deliberately 
made fun ofit, or turned a cold 
shoulder. I decided to do the best I 
could for Beth, holding very still for 
her until she got her feet on safer 
ground. 
I didn't imagine my role in this soap opera ofinnocence. This past Christmas, Beth told me that until her senior year, I was number one in her life. I pointed her to other friendships, she said, which eventu­ally left me in second place on her hit parade, and then three or four. Now I am one ofthe Very Impor­tant People in her life, with no star billing. She, for me, is the dearest girl in the world who makes some of my best days possible. She helped me, you see, grow up by accepting responsibility; not letting the sweet whimsy and sentiment, which left her sitting on my doorstep like a foundling, turn to embarrassment and regret. Beth is getting married in 1985, and we have this wonder­ful joke of my being December and her being May, as in the plot ofan old movie. 
Maybe you have to be 40 or 50 to realize that love, freely offered, isn't an albatross hanging around your neck like a millstone. It is, in Chris­tian language, a grace from God not found in a sacrament. It's a holy act when someone asks you to let her depend on you for peace ofsoul. You are blessed ifyou have the courage to give someone, who looked like a burden, the love to grow on. 
Suburbs to bring foot-tapping rock 
by Tom Tierney 
features staffwriter 
'"T"1he Suburbs will be invading 
1 Indiana tonight as they bring their unique style to tht· Stepan Center In a welcome-hack-to­school concert, at 8. 
lbe Suburbs are a Minneapolis­based band specializing in music with a big beat and bass line, sharp guitar riffs, and weird, comic-like lyrics sung in a throaty caged-in animal style. 
lbe members of the band include Beej Chaney on guitar and vocals, Chan Voling on piano and vocals, Bruce Allen on guitar, Michael Halliday on bass, and Hugo Klaers on drums. All are high school friends who formed the group in 197R 
After releasing a few singles in 1978 and 1979, they came out with their debut album in 1980, titledIn Combo. Best described as "acid­boogie," this album is permeated with the raw rock-n-roll energy ofa young band having a great time. 
The highlight ofln Combo is a song called "Cows." It contains 

r some of the silliest lyrics ever re­
r corded: "I like Cows, and they like 
r me. I like cows, they go moo when 
r they cat, and like their friends -the shaved sheep, they got funny feet." After releasi nv. their first album, people on both coasts were begin­
ning to notice them, as even Robert Christgar, music critic ofVillage Voices putln Combo among his top-40 albums of 1980. The ques­tion at the end of 1980 was what direction the band would take for its next release. The question was answered with the release ofof their ambitious second album -a double LP titled Credit in Heaven. 
Released in the fall of 1981, Credit in Heaven more closely approached music's mainstream. Dominated by the piano, this album is much more melodic than their first effort. In losing their "garage­sound," they did not lose their lyrical quickness. 
lbe single release from the al­bum, "Music for Boys," was also their first venture into the world of 12-inch dance mixes. Steve Green­berg, who was behind the dance hit "Funkytown," remixed the song which stayed onBt/lboard's dance chart for 16 weeks in the summer of 1982. 
After this success, several record­ing companies began knocking on their door, which prompted the release ofa five-song LP in the fall of 1982 entitledDream Hog. The dance remix of"Waiting" on this release could be found on the charts thoughout that winter. 
The sound onDream Hog is much more piano-and dance­oriented. With this newer sound, they signed with the Polygram organization in january of 1983 and hadDream Hog re-released on a Mercury label. 
All ofthis publicity and notoriety put pressure on the band to come up with some good songs for their next album -the first to be released by them on a major label. It looked like they had finally made it to the big time, and their next album­LoveIs the Law -had two bona-fide 
t<'P 40 hits · "Love is the Law" and 
"Rattle My Bones." 
Recently, the band has recorded a new album which will be released this spring. It promises to be their best yet. 
On the concert scene, the Sub­urbs have become known for their intense, energetic shows. Their music forces one's feet to move, so their shows invariably end up as a hot, bobbin~ mass ofbodies. 
.\ftn playing anywhere thc.:y could ~ct a gig back in the/n Combo days. the Suhurhs now play to sold-out dubs throughout the Midwc~t. New York, and Los An­geles areas. "Jhey paid their dues and are due for a break. With a good single on their new album and the proper promotion, they could finally achieve pop-stardom and be heard on top-40 stations across the country this summer. 

•MOVIES 

The Student Activities Board will present the movie "Risky Busi­ness," about a "good boy" who gets more than he counted on when his parents leave the house for a week, tonight and tomorrow night at 7, 9, and II in the Engineering Auditorium. Admission is S1.50. 
•ART 

The Saint Mary's Art Department Faculty Exhibition begins today at the Moreau Galleries at Saint Mary's, with an opening reception tonight from 7 to 9. The gallery hours are Monday to Friday from 
9:30 to noon and 1 to 3 p.m., and Sunday from 1 to 3 p.m. 
The exhibition "Landscape Paintings byJune Cary" continues this weekend at the Women's Art League Gallery, in the Art Centerat 120 South St. Joseph Street, South Bend. Cary, a resident of Niles, works in an impressionistic manner with an emphasis upon light and color. She has exhibited widely in Michigan and her works are included in many collections throughout the area. 
•DANCE 

There will be a Dance Party tonight at Stepan. The group "Suburbs" will be featured at 8 (see story at left). Tickets are available at the record store for $4.50 or at the door for S'i. 
•THEATRE 

Joseph Robinette's "Planet of the Awful People," presented by the Advance Theatre Arts Players, continues Saturday and next weekend at the Bendix Theatre in the Century Center, beginning at 2 p.m. Tickets are $1 at the door. 
•MASS 

The celebrants for Mass at Sacred Heart Chun.h this weekend will be: Father Robert Kennedy at 'i: 15 p.m. (Saturday night vigil). Father Francis Cafarelli at 9 a.m. Father Peter Rocca at 10:30. Father Peter Rocca at 12: l 5. 
•MISCELLANEOUS 
The famous Father Guido Sarducci will be performing Saturday evening at 7 p.m. and 9 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets to see the former star ofSaturday Night live are on sale at the Record Store for S5 or at the door for S6. 
There will be a snow sculpture contest on Sunday on the Field House Mall. Judging will be at 4 and prizes will be awarded. 

View~_o_i_n_t____I_____ ag_e
F_rid-ay_,Ja-nu_ary_1_8,_19-851111i-p.... 9 



The long shadow cast by 'Star Wars' weapons 
Brewing discontent in the Columbian hills 
The Space Shuttle, onJanuary 23, will make its most controversial journey to date. Aboard the craft will be a new satellite with the capa­bility to transmit intelligence-rich electronic signals from the Soviet Union to the United States. While the mission is, by its very nature, a matter of controversv. the demands and at-
Bill Krais 

s e If-transcendency 
tacks made upon our free press hav~ been both stifling and dangerous. 
On the morning of Dec. 20, Washington Post readers were treated to, in the words of Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger, "the height of journalistic irresponsibility." The remarks made by Weinberger as well as by others resurrect two very important ques­tions. The first, what is national security such that government officials, elected by and for the people, have the ability to withhold and censor information? And, the second, in a country with a free press must news organiza­tions be expected to withhold public informa­tion at the request ofgovernment officials? 
The current administration's perception of national security is profoundly distorted. Gov­ernment officials maintain that this prohibi­tion of public information is necessary in order "to keep Moscow from learning too much about American satellite capabilities." We would be very naive to believe that the Soviet Union obtains its sensitive information concerning the United States through our news media, as the Reagan administration would have us believe. Certainly, any informa­tion which news organiztions have gathered is already in the hands of Soviet officials. This apparently was only an excuse by the Reagan administration in order to, once again (remember the restrictions placed upon the free press during Reagan's Grenada invasion) prohibit the flow ofpublic information to the people. 
Viewpoint Policy 

National security, according to the adminis­tration, means, in a sense, that the people should not be allowed to know about matters of a controversial nature, perhaps in order to avoid public scrutiny. It is certain, however, that the demands made upon our free press were not made in order to preserve the secur­ity of the nation. We must surely believe this; it does not seem likely that Kremlin leaders woke up on Dec. 20, to first learn ofthis Space Shuttle mission by glancing through The Washington Post. This obviously was not a matter ofnational security and the people, for whom the free press works, should have been informed ofthis mission. (Remember, it is tax­payer's dollars which finance big toys like these anyway.) 
Should news organizations, in a country with a free press, be expected to withhold public information at the request ofa govern­ment official? I think not. 
The free press is like the church; it should remain separate and independent of any gov­ernment controls, restrictions, and prohibi­tions. The public has an unequivocal right to know. Our government, elected by and for the people, must answer to public scrutiny. The free press provides the objectivity by which we judge our government's progress. If, in our democracy, we disagree with the actions of our government, we can, under the First Amendment, petition the government for redress ofgrievances. 
The free press publicizes, and rightly so, the actions ofour government, thus creating a sys­tem of checks and balances between the people and their government. Our free press is sacred and should in no way be subor­dinated or restricted by our public officials. 
What Caspar Weinberger said is totally un­forgivable. In order to preserve any semblance of democracy, our First Amend­ment in general, and our free press in particu­lar, must be upheld at all costs. 
Bill Krais is a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters atNotre Dame. 

Viewpoint wants to bear from you. Ifyou bave an opinion, Orlllant insight or humorous comment concerning anything appearing in The Observer justsend a let­ter toP.O.Box Q. 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Obser~er is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Uns1gned editorials represent the opinion of a majonty of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of the1r authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free express1on of varying opinions on campus. through letters, is encouraged. 
A specter is haunting the Soviet world, the specter ofa technology that does not yet exist but may come into being. It is the "Star Wars" research and planning. 
Tille liberal, anti-nuclear establishment in Am('fica has mocked it, including the "Gang of 
Max Lerner 

The Max Lerner Column 

Four" headed by Robert McNamara and in­cluding also four former secretaries ofstate. 
Coming home from Geneva, Secretary George Shultz noted that the Russians there did not share the skepticism of some Americans about the "Star Wars" technology. The lact is that they are eating their hearts out about it. They want to stop its development midway in course, and they cannot take the chance that it will bypass them. 
One of the four ex-secretaries, Dean Rusk, has said that "if the United States can perfect the technology, the Soviet Union can too." Then, he says, we will have to spend hundreds ofbillions for new offensive weapons to pene­trate the Soviet defensive screening. This is, he adds, is "just as certain in my mind as the rising of the sun." 
If the Russians were sure that they could "perft·ct the technology," they would not be yelling so loud against it. 
Tht TV anchormen and commentators 
have been viewing the "Star Wars" initiative 
and the Geneva talks as an extinction crisis for 
the human race. That is a tall order. And their 
portentous reporting sounds pretty apocalyp­
tic. It makes more sense to see it as a crisis in 
the Soviet economy and technology. 

As compared with the two great economic powers of the West -the United States and Japan -the Soviets are in a backwater. If there is going to be a new weapons generation of the nuclear age, it will come as the product of the high-tech revolution. America and Japan are the competing economic parties in that revolution. The Soviet Union, with all its im­perial power, simply is not in the same class. 
China, far less a power than the Soviet, is even more haunted by its backwardness, but under Deng it is doing something about it ­importing Western technology, opening itself to the free market ideology, subjecting its in­dustrial managers to collective self-criticism. 
The Soviet leaders have not dared follow 
the Chinese example. They are eager to im­
port the Western technology any which way­
to buy, borrow or steal it, as in the past. 

But the problem is that "Star Wars" does not yet exist as a defensive weapons system but only as a complex of ideas in high-tech labs and high-tech minds. And the Russians are backward on both. They read the American papers and are given free summaries of the state of the space technology art. But in any race with America, they know they would lose. 
To break out of this impasse Chernenko would have to do a Deng and ride hard on the comatose party bureaucrats who stifle Soviet technology and management. If a future leader could do this it would mean that America had prodded Russia into a long­needed technological revolution. And that in turn might pave the way for a political change. 
(C) 1985,LOSANGELESTJMESSYNDICATE 




The public right to scrutinize government 
Have you ever heard the story ofJuan Val­dez, the coffee-commercial star? 
Juan is an expert in coffee because he has been hand-picking coffee beans for the past forty years -ever since he was eight years old. Also, Juan comes from a great tradition ofcof­fe_e pickers. Juan's gr_(:at grandfather used to 
Santiago O'Donnell 
free-lance 
pick cofl'ee beans with his bare hands, and so didJuan's grandfather. Juan's father still works on the fidds. 
Guess what Juan's children and grandchildren will do? Yes, they will be in the fields, m.oong sure the taste of hand-picked Colombian coffee reaches your house every day. 
Meanwhile, Juan Valdez is a big television star. Excttse me, Juan is also part ofthe Ameri­can dream being the only coffee picker to become .rich by legal means. You see, the Colombian government needs weapons from the United States to fight leftist guerrillas, but the United States only buys coffee. So it's either grow coffee or ... "Juan meets Mary Jane." 
It's all part of a game called free trade. Today General Gonzalez needs a couple of helicopters, like the ones he saw on the televi­sion show "Airwolf." General Gonzalez needs helicopters to control the thousands of peasants that are tired of picking coffee, and 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief . ... .... Bob Vonderheide Managing Editor . Mark Worscheh News Editor ...... Sarah Hamilton News Editor ..... ..... Dan McCullough Saint Mary's Editor . Anne Monastyrski Sports Ed1ior.. ..... Michael Sullivan Viewpoint Editor .. ... Dave Grote Features Editor . . ..... Mary Healy Photo Editor . .... . . ... Pete Laches 
Uncle Sam's wife drinks coffee for breakfast. The trade is obvious, as is who decides on the price ofthe coffee. Uncle Sam decides that his exclusive helicopters are worth X tons ofcof­fee, and that number means that Juan's family will spend the rest oftheir lives picking coffee. 
When the harvest is badJuan's family suffers the consequences; their fault for placing all their eggs in the basket. When the harvest is good, the price ofcoffee drops, in accordance to the law ofsupply and demand. 
Does the game seem fair? I don't know, some people in Detroit don't seem to like it anymore, they want to change the rules. They argue that the small, silly looking Japanese dude with the big round glasses is very smart, despite his appearence. Furthermore, he is leaving many American auto workers jobless. 
This is terrible. What should we do about the game? Pick one ofthese three approaches: 
Ronald McDonald proposes we insert a spe­cial clause in the game reminding the Japanese that G.l.Joe reconstructed their eco­nomy after World War II. G.l. Joe, of course, grew up in Detroit, henceJapanese should not be allowed to sell cars in the United States. 
General Gonzalez proposes to leave the game rules as they are, because if the rules change thousands of coffee pickers will have funny ideas about the system. 
Finally, Juan's family proposes to change the rules entirely. 
Santiago O'Donnell is a sophomore in the College ofArts andLetters atNotre Dame and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
l
-

Department Managers 

l Business Manager. . Dave Taiclet Controller. . . . Dave Stephenitch Advertising Manager. . .... Anne Cull1gan Circulation Manager. Jeff O'Neill Systems Manager. Mark B. Johnson Production Manager. . . Chris Bowler Project Manager . . ..... Amy Stephan 
Founded November 3, 1966 


I 

Friday,January 18, 1985-page 1 



Sports Briefs 
The ND Women's Fastpitch Softball Club will 
be meeting for practice today at IO p.m. in the ACC Fieldhouse. 
Anyone who is interested but cannot attend should call Mara at 283­
4583 or jackie at 283-4541.-Tbe Observer 
Benaal Bouts trainingcontinues today and every day at 3:45 p.m. in the boxing room at the ACC. Anyone who is interested may attend; no experience is necessary. -The Observer 
The off-canipus hockey teamwill be meeting 
for practice today at 5:30 p.m. at the ACC. Players should bring S6 for a jersey. For more information, call Timo at 287-8264. -The Observer 
The ND Novice Men's Crew Club will be 
meeting for practice on Monday at 8 p.m. in the ACC Fieldhouse. Anyone who is interested may attend. -The Observer 
NVA river-rafting trip participants will be 
meeting on Monday at 7 p.m. in the football auditorium at the ACC. Anyone who is interested must attend. -The Observer 
Downhillskiing tripsare being sponsored by NVA on four Tuesdays, Jan. 22 and 29 and Feb. 5 and 12. The cost of all four trips is $62, which includes transportation, equipment, lift tick­ets and lessons. Participants must register and pay in advance at the NVA office. -The Observer 
The ND women's track teani is looking ror volunteers to help at its home meet on Friday, Feb. 1. Anyone who is 
interested should call Patty at 283-4072 or Anne at 283-2646.-The Observer 
The ND/SMC Ski Clubhas announced its new offi­
cers. Julie Currie will act as president for the season, John O'Donovan will be the men's captain, Katerie Gaffney will be the Notre Dame women's captain and Ann Ratledge will be the Saint Mary's captain. -The Observer 
Interhall volleyball tournanients are 
being organized by NVA. The entry deadline for both the men's and women's tournaments is Wednesday. For more information, call the NVA office at 239-6100.-The Observer 
Doubles racquetball tournaments are 
being organized by NVA. There also will be a doubles handball tournament. The entry deadline for all of the tournaments is Wed­nesday. For more information, call the NVA office at 239-6100. -The Observer 
An Indoor track meetis being organized by NVA. 
The entry deadline is Wednesday. For more information, call the 
NVA office at 239-6100.-The Observer 
see BRIEFS, page 11 
Bluejays may leaveMVC 
Associated Press 
OMAHA, Neb. -Creighton Univer­sity is considering an invitation to join the Midwestern City Confer­
ence,  Athletic  Director  Dan  Of­ 
fenburger said.  
"We'll  attempt  to  make  our  

decision by May," Offenburger said. "Midwestern City has a lot to offer us in terms ofcommonality." 
Like Creighton, the eight univer­sities in the conference are private schools, and basketball is the major sport at each. Four schools are run byJesuits, as is Creighton. 
"We're looking to get a commit­ment one way or another," Commis­sioner James Shaffer said by phone from the league office in In­dianapolis. "Ifthey decide they don't want to join, we wish them well." 
IfCreighton accepts the invitation and leaves the Missouri Valley Con­ference, the Bluejays would play basketball regularly against league members Oral Roberts in Tulsa, Oklahoma City, St. louis, Detroit, Loyola of Chicago, Butler in In­dianapolis, Evansville and Xavier in Cincinnati. 
The Obsen•er Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 'J a.m. until 4 p.m.. Monday through Friday. The Obsen•er Saint Mary's office. lot·ated on th<· third floor of Haggar College Center, acn·pts classifieds from 12:50 p.m. until ; p.m.. Mon· dar though Friday. Deadline for next-day classilkds is 5 p.m. All classificds must be prepaid, either in person or hy mail. Charge is I 0 cents pt·r five charac­


·Classifieds 
ters erda·. 

NOTICES FOR A GIFT THAT IS UNIQUE, SEND A BELLY GRAM TO YOUR SHIEK! 272­1858 ........................................  ATTENTION: LOST, at SeniO< Bar-1 dark grey overcoat, with a brown/ black zip-in liner. Anyone who was at the private party Tuesday night ( January 15) who may have accidenHy taken it please CAll me at 283-1156, 0< else return it to ths SeniO< bar lost-and found. LOST: N.D. RUGBY LETTER JACKET,  WANTED ............................ ............................. DEPENDABLE PART-TIME WAITRESS WANTED. MUST BE 21. FOR APPT., CALL 289-8031. ORIGINAL CONEY IS­ NEED: 2 DePaul G.A.s real bad; big $$$ call Mark 1688 Wanted: Two DEPAUL tckts.2n-8649 evenings HELP!! IN DIRE NEED OF 2 DePAUL TIX. CAU DAVE AT 3588.  8th floor Mminllr room now open lor ,._..etiona, piMM cont.ct the li­brary monitor. Space Ia limited, call before 7 a.m. Plaue Heather,how was break? Hope to see you soon.  PO­FLAKE PRODUCTIONS PRESENTS " THE ORIGINAL MOVIE POSTER EXHIBIT AND SALE", TODAY FROM 9A.M. TO 5P.M. IN THE NAZZ IN LAFORTUNE. GET THE BEST IN ORIGINAL MOVIE POSTERS AND MEMORABILIA FROM THE SILENT DAYS TO THE PRESENT.  
- TYPING CAll CHRIS 234-811117 TYPING Jackie Boggs 684-8793 EXPERT TYPING 2n-8534 AFTER 5:30 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-70011. ............................................ Wordprocessmg and typing-272-8827. NEED TYPING, CAll DOLORES m- BLUE AND BLACK WITH NAME ON INSIDE POCKET. MISPLACED AT BRIDGETT'S TUESDAY EVENING OR EARLY WEDNESDAY MORNING. PLEASE RETURN . NO QUESTIONS ASKED. CALLJ.R. REIDAT2n-7561. LOST; TAN LUGGAGE BAG with blue straps; may have been left outside Regina Hall;oontains mosHy sweaters and jeans;if found please ca11283-2545. LOST: Men's high school class ring beiO<e break. Silver with blue cut stone . Initials on the Inside. If you have found~. calf Dave at3049. Reward.  LAND REST. NEED RIDE TO SYRACUSE WEEKEND OF JAN 26. CAU PAT 1003 ROOMMATE WANTED ROOMMATE WANTED ROOMMATE WANTED ROOMMATE WANTED JAN-MAY Located behind Turtle Creek oil of Edi110n. Within 1 mila from NO. Semt­rumtehed, quiet, .,.cloua, .--..bla!l TRANSPORTATION NEEDED I Cell Cerot .tm-1306.  I need 2 or 3 DEPAUL GA's desperately. Please call Mike tonight at 1747. WANTED!! I NEED TWO DEPAUL TIX FOR THIS WEEKEND! IF YOU CAN HELP ME OUT OF THIS PROSLEM. CALL DOUG AT 3859. MONEY IS NO OBJECT!! 4 DePaul Tix 4 Sale x1022 NEED SYRACUSE BASKETBALL TICK­ETS DESPRATELY!!!I PLEASE CALL 2n-B497 NEED 6 Syracuse GA's. Call Steve 1163  FOR SALE:-LARGE COUCH-GREAT FOR SLEEPING SANTA BROUGHT A NEW ONE FOR X-MAS SO MUST SELL CALL2n-7570 Tough frlanda lutlongar. Cthulu may call. but Crorn DEMANDS WOULD THE SILLY PERSON THAT LOST HIS/HER STUDENT B. BALL TICKET PACK PLEASE CALL THE NICE PERSON (THAT WANTS TO GO TO THE DEPAUL GAME BUT DOESN'T  MOVIE POSTER SALE MOVIE POSTER SALE MOVIE POSTER SALE MOVIE POSTER SALE MOVIE POSTER SALE MOVIE POSTER SALE MOVIE POSTER SALE MOVIE POSTER SALE TODAY FROM 9A.M.-5P.M. IN THE NAZZ IN LAFORTUNE. BEACH THE WINTER BLUES!!! SMC/ND STUDENTS­AU CAMPUS DANCE-H.C.C. 9 P.M.-1 A.M. RAFFLE­lNG OFF 2 TRIPS TO DAYTONA FOR SPRING BREAK! RAFFLE TICKETS $1.50 A PIECE OR 2 FOR $2.00 RAFFLE AT 10:30 P.M. 1 TICKET WINS 2 TRIPS TO DAYTONA.  
6045 PICK UP AND D£UVERY Where Is Gino's East? ................................................................ TYPING CAll CHRIS 234-811117  Lost: My I.D., my driver's liacence, and (heavy sigh) my seniO< bar card all encased in that green thing fO< !.D.'s. Please help me -I'm getting hungry! Call Mo.3624.  MENDELOWITZ GUIDE DRAWING.HAVE IT? SEU IT. 4515  TO  PERSONALS  HAVE A TICKET) THAT FOUND YOUR TIX (2n-7570) Finding yourself with nothing to do on Thursday and Friday afternoons? Like to earn some extra spending money 1nstead  DAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR, CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  
................................................................ Room Available At N.D. Apts. Pl88118 Contact John Marl< 0< P J at 232 0493 TYPING  ATTENTION!! To the dude in Keenan who's abducted all my ELVIS COSTELLO sheet music: Contact me. Now. AI 3061. You're not the only musician in town.  MALE ROOMATE NEEDED TO SHARE THREE BEDROOM HOUSE CLOSE TO SCHOOL. CAU NICK AT 289 7132 OR 2391684.  PREGNANT? NEED HELP? CAU 234­0363. 24 hour hodina/free pregnancy test available. WOMEN'S CARE CENTER  of just sitting around? If yes, and ii you are free from 1-5on eitherofthosedays, then the ObsetYer has a deal IO< you! Call Tom Mowle at 239-5303 and find out how you can become a day editor.  BETTER THAN I ASKED -THANKS ST JUDE JANET TABIT­WELCOME BACK  
JACKIE BOGGS 684-8713  IF YOU LOST GLOVES IN ROOM 356 FITZPATRICK,CAU NAJI AT 1743.PROPER IDENTIFICATION OF  NEED DEPAUL STUDENT TIX 2n-6740  YOU HAVE A BEAUTIFUL BODY AND ARE WORTH THE WORLD  Reindeer Diad, need a ride to North Pole.  -YOUR FLANNER ADMIRER THANK YOU MARY  
Undergraduates. Graduate Students. Law Students. Faculty, and admini­strative P8f*ln8l: The New YOfk Times, the wor1d'a greatest newspaper, is available IO< campus delivery at 35 cents a day on -daysand $2.50 IO< the Sun­day edition. The Times guarantees to deliver your copy of the Times to your dorm room, mailbox. oltlce,carrof, depart­ment office 0< anywhere else on campus that you desire. Off-campus students can pick up their copies at the library, Iafortune, 0< any other place on campus. To get the Times simply conlllct George Devenny at 145 Stan!O<d Ha11283-2094. Attention Female Students: The New York Times is the only morning newspa­per that delivers directly to rooms In female dorms. While thoae other comic book8 and newsp~ers treat female stu­dents like I8COnd dasa citizens, throwing their newspapers out of elevators and on the front desk whereanyone can steal your paper, The New York Times treats female students with dass, delivering the paper directly to their rooms before 8:ooa.m.. For delivery ol the Times, con­tact George Devenny at 145 Stanford 283-2094  GLOVES IS REQUIRED. FOUND: IMITATION RHINESTONE NECKLACE BEHIND POST OFFICE BEFORE BREAK. CALL 2n-6740 TO CLAIM YOUR PRECIOUS GEMS. LOST: MY DARK GREY-BLACK TWEED LONG OVERCOAT...STIU!!! IF YOU FOUND IT PLEASE CALL JIM AT 283­1156, NO QUESTIONS ASKED. LOST AT SENIOR BAR DURING THE PRIVATE PARTY LAST TUESDAY, AND I'M GETTING PRETTY DAMN COLD!!! FOR RENT Nice furnished homes for next school year. 2n-3604. Furnished home available now han mile north of campus. 2n-3604. TWo-FOUR MAN APARTMENT TO SUBLEASE FEB-MAY  FOR SALE FOR SALE: '72Sky..rk Body: Poor Engine: Good $500 or IIMt otler Jet! 288-2042 ................................................................ For Sale Several tani<S ol methyl­isocyanate in good condition. Contact Union Carbide Corporation. FLOPPY DISKS 4 SALE . avoid bookstO<e ripoff ONLY $1.50 per. Call John 3592 FOR SALE: LARGE COUCH-GREAT FOR SlEEPINGft1 SANTA BROUGHT A NEW ONE FOR X-MAS SO MUST SEll CALL m-7570 FOR SALE: MINT-CONDITION 1973 TAKAMINE 12-STRING GUITAR.  FR. GUIDO SARDUCCI TWO SHOWS 7:00PM AND 9:00PM SHOWS $5.00 IN ADVANCE AND $6.00 AT THE DOOR TICKETS ON SALE STARTING MONDAY. BUY YOUR TIX NOW FOR THE JANUARY 19TH SHOW! When is this test ever going to end? ANNE LONG Greetings from London-Hope your first three days ol classes have gone o.k. How'd it go Wednesday night? Remem­ber,l'll be watching you. Chow fO< now U.K. LYNETTE IS NOT A FISH! Beth Whelpley is a tigress! Kelly O'Neil is a princess! you know what my favorite thing is to do sometimes is to just sit and type away and not use any punctuation at all because I  INTERESTED IN SOME NIGHT WORK! Join The Obaerver production dapat1­menl Layout ami! people work 2 houra per WMI<. Opportunity lor aclv•nce­ment. Stop up to our Notre O.ma olllca •nd1111 out •n application. SAVE MONEY!! PURCHASE YOUR TEXTS AT PANDORA'S BOOKS,937 SOUTH BEND AVE.,NEXTTOCORBY'S BAR. 233-2342. MAKE MONEY I! SELL YOUR CLASS BOOKS TO PANDORA'S FOR $$ OR CREDIT ! PANDORA'S BOOKS.937 SO.BEND AVE. 233-2342 . HAPPY BIRTHDAY to the GREATEST guy in Zahm...JOHN COFFEY ... even though it is the semester for Dillon men! Lots of Love from Tweedle Dee. Tweedle Dum and Us Cathy, Well we are back fO< yet another se­mester, we'vegottogeta bigger room!! At least the bed set-up will help matters  WELCOME BACK SENIORS COME START SECOND SEMESTER WITH "BUSTER AND BREW" SATURDAY,JAN.19 9-1 ATHCCAT SAINT MARY'S $2/PERSON PLUS $2 FOR AU YOU CAN DRINK 21 ID REQUIRED Vote for David Burger ... Hoosier of the year! !SKIERS! PLEASE REMOVE SKIS FROM GRAY VAN. I LEAVE EARLY TOMORROW! PETE-304 GRACE. LOOKING FOR SOME LIGHT PLEA­SURE READING THIS SEMESTER? WHY NOT TRY "EQUILIBRIUM STAGE SEPARATION OPERATIONS" OR "FUNDAMENTALS OF ANALYTICAL CHEMISTRY?" FOR SALE NOW CALL MIKE3336. ................................................. TO A "SWEET" SISTER: HAPPY BIRTHDAY SUSAN RAAB!!I LOVE,  
SPRUCE TOP, ROSEWOOD BACK &  think it's real tun because it just goes on  some. (FO<me anyway, don't fall out!)  MIKE.  
Loc:8tacl behind  Turtle CrMk ott of  SIDES, HC CASE. $250 OR BEST OF­ and on and on and i really enjoy it and i  
- We naacl your help!  Edl110n. Within 1 mila from NO. Seml­lumlehacl, quiet, 8J*)Ioua,  FER. CALL JIM, 288-5009, AFTER 5:30 PM  think i'll just go wheeeeeeeeee  on  writing  fO<ever  HEY SO. CALIF.--We're Devastated! We  !ENGINEERING GRADUATE STUDENT IS INTERESTED IN MEETING AN AT­ 
OMIIUDSMAN  I'BUOn8blall ca11 Dorena et m-1306  ask that you keep the tragic death of the  TRACTIVE,INTELLIGENT,THIRD YEAR  
OAGANIZATIONAL MEETING  or Uu Mllrla et ...........  231H313  to  laeve  CHEG AND ENGINEERING FOR SALE: CAU MIKE 3336  BOOKS  MIGHTY 690 in your prayers. Is a celebra­tion in order?  LAW STUDENT. WENDY??  HOW  ABOUT  IT  
Mary, did you see Clockwork Orange?  
Wad..--., January 23, 7:30PM  WANTED -Female houaemate IO< a 4­ Well, we're going to take you and tape  SAB SPRING BREAK SKI TRIP !I! Spend  THANKS to the kind person who picked  
Room 20 LAFortune  bedroom homa located 10 minutes from  your eyelidS open and then fO<ce you to  5 days and 6 nights In glorious WINTER  up my red wool scarf (the one I got from  
......................................; ..........-;::::;.......... _I LOST/F~UND I  campus. $150 per month indudes utilitiea. 23~5930 0< 291-9644 ROOMATE wanted to share 3 bedroom apt. 3 miles from campus. $117 /month  TICKETS W8111acl  watch Purple Rajn. Let's go crazy . NOTRE DAME: WHERE MEN ARE MEN AND WOMEN ARE TOO.  PARK COLORADO for only $299 1!11 (transpo & lift tlx incl.) Info mtg in LaFortune Little Theatre on Mon, Jan. 21 at 7 p.m. to collect the first deposit of $159. To sign up call MICHEUE at2722  Santa Claus) in or around Hurley. I can't wait to get It back! P188118 call Margaret at 234-6523.  
induding utilities. Call288-1072  DESPERATELY  NEED  TICKETS  TO  ST. MARY'S: WHERE THE LAKES ARE  0< LIZ at 2761.  lnt-ted In a trip to a fun and cui­ 
THE  DEPAUL  GAME  ON  SUNDAY.  COLO  IUI'IIIIy atlnlctlve city to partlclplllol In  
LOST: Leather WILSON "JET' Basket­ THINKING  OF  LIVING  O.C.?  APT.  CAU BIU AT 288-4637.  THE ORIGINAL MOVIE POSTER  EX­ an activity th•t Ia worthwhile and a  
ball In the ACC on Friday, November 30,  AVAILABLE  NOW  FOR  UP  TO  4  Welcome  beck  Londonare:  W.R.,  HIBIT  and  SALE  IS  OCCURRING  verygood time? Join the Match for Ule  
1964, in the afternoon, In 0< around Gym  PEOPLE.  FUUY  FURNISHED,  2  I  NEED  TICKETS  TO  THE  NOTRE  Kevin, Jay, Chuck, Sue, Jill, Marie, etc.  TODAY FROM 9 A.M.  TO 5 P.M.  IN  In Wuhlngton D.C. Januery 22. For  
2. Detlnate ldentifica-lion can be made. If  BATHROOMS-CAU PATRICK AT 3185  DAME  vs  DEPAUL  B-BALL  GAME.  from your friends who missed you bloody  LaFORTUNE$ NAZZ. BUY THE BEST  mora lnlortn~~llon •nd ,_...Ilonacall  
found. PLEASE CAU 283-4335. 0  IF INTERESTED.  Please call Mark at 1461.  much!  MOVIE POSTERS TODAY!!!  Blllat3002 or Terry •t 4059tOCS.yl  

The Observer Friday, January 18, 1985-page 11 

Briefs 
continued from page 10 
Cross-country skiing events are being 
sponsored by NVA. OnJan. 26 there wil be a novice clinic, onJan. 29 there will be an advanced clinic, on Jan. 29 and Feb. 8 there will be "moonlighters" at night, on Feb. 2 there will be a day tour, and on Feb 9 there will be a day ofraces. For more information, call the NVA office at 239-6100. ·The Observer 
Stretchercise and Aerobics Classes are 
being held by NVA. The classes begin next week. For more informa­tion, call the NVA office at 239-6100.-The Observer 
A bowling league is being organized by NVA. Four­member teams will compete on four Monday nights, beginningJan. 
28. Rosters with a minimum ofseven members must be submitted to the NVA office by Friday, Jan. 25.-The Observer 
A scuba-diving courseis being sponsored by NVA. A meeting for anyone interested will be held Thursday, Jan. 24 at 6 
p.m. in Rockne room 219. -The Observer 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Thursday until 4 p.m. at The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Briefs must be clearly written. -The Observer 
THE EARLY,&BIRD... ~~p  
. Jan.l9 andPREPARE FOR: Classes starting Jan.20  
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-4135  

University Ministry 
offers 
Pre-Cana Programs 
which meet diocesan regulations across the country 
MI-Host Couple Program 4 sessions $15 

Call University Ministry Badin Office: 239-5242 
Pre-Cana Weekend February 1-2 March 8-9 April 12-13 $65 
••1 
OFFICE OF 
LNVERSITY 'MINISTR><­

Number-four senior center 
Expert says Blab can go pro 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind.-Uwe Blab, Indiana University's 7-2 center, wants to play professional basket­ball. 
"Oh, definitely, I would like to," he says. "That's what I'm consider­ing ifI have a chance." 
Marty Blake, basketball's super scout, says he'll get the chance in the National Basketball Association. 
"There's no question he's going to be drafted in the first round," said the Atlanta-based Blake. 
Blab said so far no one has talked to him about the NBA. He'll play out this season -Saturday he faces an­other 7-footer, Brad Sellers, at Ohio State -and then see what develops. 
"I would like to go pro," he said. "But ifI don't have a chance for that, I can also play in Europe. If I don't have a chance for that, I can also go and play in Germany." 
He already has been approached by a semi-pro team m his native country that would ~Jlow him to play and attend graduate school. 
Blake considers Blab the fourth­best senior center available when the 23 NDA teams make their selec­tions next June. 
Ranked in front of him are Geor­getown's Patrick Ewing, Arkansas' Joe Kleine and SMU'sJon Koncak. 
"I like him for a number of reasons," said Blake. "One is because he has developed what I think is the only unstoppable shot in basketball, the hookshot. I don't know why more people don't work on a hook­shot. 
"He runs the court. He's worked on his offense, he posts up. Uwe is a very, very good player. I saw him for two weeks out at the Olympics and there's no question he can play in the NBA and definitely be a factor." 
Concurring with Blake's assess­ment on Blab is Kent Benson, who earned All-America honors at center for Indiana University. 
"I think there's no doubt he's going to get drafted, because num­ber one he's 7-2, he's got a good hookshot, good inside moves. It's just a matter of time until he gets to playing up to his potential," said Benson, now a member ofthe NBA's Detroit Pistons. 
There's one other factor, Benson notes, that makes Blab an excellent pro prospect. Playing for coach Bob Knight instills discipline, and all his players learn to play strong defense. 
"The defensive principles he 
teaches helped me remain in the 
league," said Benson, who spent 
time with Blab during the German's 
sophomore season. 

Get in touch.··..·.·•·•. 
with the 
latest snow 
conditiorls•. 
Call: 
1--800--248--5708 
Our toll-free 24-hour snow hot line for all the latest inform< tion on snow and ski conditions at M1chigan resorts and ski areas. 
~ 
~M!CH!GAN 
SUNDAY 
ALL YOU CAN EAT 
COUNTRY FRIED CHICKEN 
MASHED POTATOES & COLE SLAW 

MONDAY 
YOU CAN EAT 
SPAGHETTI 
XAS TOAST 
WEDNESDAY 
ALL YOU CAN EAT BBQ BEEF RIBS FRENCH FRIES & COLE SLAW 

THURSDAY GER NIGHT 
ENCH FRIES & SUNDAE 
FRIDAY 
$4.50 $3.25 $4.95 $4 25 
• 

"There are a lot of NHA players who don't like to play defense. I'm just thankful that Coach Knight got me to the point in my ability where I was really confident I could play defense and do the things that are important in staying in the NBA." 
Indiana Pacers scout Tom Newell is another who joined the Blab band­wagon after watching him score 31 points against Western Kentucky last month. 
"I think he has come into his own. He's finally getting a grasp of what coach Knight is preparing him for," Newell said. 
"Probably, the one area he im­presses me with is in the paint where he has a legitimate shot he can count on. He has a money shot in that hook. It's kind of like a lost art in the amateurs. I would say it makes him a 
• 

very formidable force in the middle," Newell added. Blab admits his confidence fluctu­ates. 
"Some nights I think I can (play professionally) definitely. Then other nights I don't think I can. 
"I think I've done a lot of different things this year and I like them the way they go, especially offensively. I tend to get more into the offense this year and I think that's kind of good and important for the pros, but besides that I still have to have con­sistency." 
The Munich native says that just being able to shoot the hookshot won't assure him a job in the NBA. He points out he must develop his strength. He learned a little about what he will encounter in the NBA when he worked out with the Los Angeles Clippers' James Donaldson last summer. 
Men 
continuedfrompage 16 
We won't be slowing the ball down, 
by any means, though." 
As has been the case lately, David 
Rivers will be the key man in Notre 
Dame's attack, according to Phelps. 
In his first game against DePaul, the 
freshman's shot selection was poor 
at times, and he had a tough time 
with Patterson at both ends of the 
floor. 
"David's learned a lot from the sit­
uations that he's been in since last 
time," notes Phelps. "There was too 
much pressure on him defensively 
then, but now our defense has im­
proved -we've plugged some holes. 
We're in a better position now. 
We're healthy and ready to play." 
Rivers will get help from back­
court mate Scott Hicks, as well as the 
tri-captain frontcourt ofKen Barlow, 

Jim Dolan and Tim Kempton. In the 
last game with DePaul, Dolan, 
Kempton, and Donald Royal, Notre 
Dame's big rebound men, combined 
for just six boards in 60 total 
minutes of play. Those three will 
have to rise to the occasion to keep 
the likes of Corbin, Holmes, Com­
egys, and Marty Embry from con­
trolling the boards Sunday. 
Embry probably will start at 
center for DePaul, with Holmes and 
Corbin at the forwards and Com­
megys the first man off the bench. In 
the backcourt, Patterson will be 
joined by either TonyJackson or 6-7 
sophomore Lawrence West, who 
got his first start in DePaul's 69-58 
win over Houston last Saturday. 
As big a game as this is for Notre 

Dame, Phelps knows that DePaul ­
also is in need ofa victory Sunday. 
"They need this game too," ex­
plains Phelps, "Because we're both 
Independents. Both teams have 
struggled a little bit on the road over 
the last few weeks, and now this is 
the time of year you want to get it 
going a~ain. They're looking for a big 
win on the road, and they're looking 
for consistency from their bench." 
The Irish will be doing everything 
they can to prevent the Blue 
Demons from getting either one. 


--------~---------­
The Observer Friday,January 18, 1985-page 12 
Tough competition 
ND swimmers take on Ball State 
By MARY SIEGER 
Sports Writer 
New semesters always seem to 
start with a bang. 
This weekend, the Notre Dame 
women's swim team faces some of 
the toughest competitors on its 
schedule as the BaU State University 
Cardinals storm into the Rockne 
Memorial Pool this Sunday at 2 p.m. 
for Notre Dame's first dual meet of 
the spring semester. 
If the Cardinals defeat Central Indiana University this afternoon, they will walk into Sunday's contest with a spotless dual meet record. 'The only blemish in Ball State's season record is a second-place finish behind Bowling Green Uni­versity In the Bowling Green Relays last semester. 
The Irish also dropped a tough decision to Bowling Green last se­mester, their only loss so far this season. 
McCann satisfied 
"We had a tough meet against Bowling Green," explained Notre Dame head coach Dennis Stark. "They (the Cardinals) should be a little less tough than Bowling Green." 
Last year, Ball State decisively defeated the Irish 95-45. While Stark hesitates to predict the outcome of Sunday's meet, he expects the Irish to be more competitive with the Cardinals this time. 
"They have an older program and offer scholarships; they can flU their spots more easily when they're weak and it all adds up," said Stark. "We're in shape and we should improve be­cause we have more depth." 
A training trip to sunny Puerto Rico helped the Irish stay in shape during Christmas break. But the 10­day working vacation did more for the team than give swimmers a chance to flaunt healthy suntans during this arctic South Bend Janu­ary. 
The team swam two training ses­
sions daily in the same pool used for 
the 1979 Pan-American Games. The 
Irish shared facilities with several 
other American !.miversities training 
for the remainder of their seasons. 
"Since everyone paid their own way, it was important for the trip to be enjoyable and educational," said Stark. "We had an opportunity in training to be able to face BaU State in better shape." 
In their last meet ofl984, the Irish improved their season record to 3-1 by handily defeating Valparaiso Uni­verisity, 78-54. While the victory gave the Irish a 1-0 record in the Northstar Conference, Stark ex­plained the team's real test in confer­ence competition will come later in the season. 
"It was good to end on a win and it gave us a better psych to get started," he said. "It also gave us the opportunity to let people swim other things." 

Irish wrestlers gain experience 


ByJOE BRUNETTI 
Sports Writer 
The added practice time provided by Christmas break allowed Notre Dame wrestling coach Fran McCann to stabilize his lineup for the second halfofthe season. It also exposed his squad to some tough competition. 
After trouncing Valparaiso at home before finals, the Irish headed to Deland, Fla., to compete in the Sunshine Open on Dec. 28 and 29. Facing competition from over 30 schools, the Irish ended up a respec­table ninth. John Krug paced the Irish with his third place finish. 
"We accomplished my goal," said McCann. "I wanted to finish in the top 10 and we did that." 
l 
After returning to South Bend for a couple of weeks, the Irish headed to South Carolina to face Clemson and Southwest Missouri State. The Tigers of Clemson proved to be too 
I 
formidible as the Irish took a 40-3 beating. 
Hockey team goes on road 
By ED DOMANSKY 
Sports Writer 
LAKE FOREST, IU. -After a brief stop at home for Tuesday's contest with Alao;ka-Fairbank.o;, the Notre Dame hockey team ( 5-12) returns 
to the road this weekend to compete 
In the Forester Classic at Lake Forest College. 
lbe tournament field includes the host Foresters, Bowdoin, River Falls and the Irish. 
Friday night's first game begins at 7 p.m. and has Lake Forest scheduled to meet River Falls. 
The Foresters, 9-3 overall, enter the tourney riding an eight-game winning streak. Lake Forest defeated Notre Dame, 5-4, Dec. 8 at the ACC. 
River Falls Is 5-6 and is coming off a split with Mankato State last weekend. 
-
The Irish wiiJ meet defending champion Bowdoin in the evening's second contest beginning at 9:30. Notre Dame will be looking for its first road victory after eight defeats away from the ACC this season. 
The consolation game is slated for 4 p.m. on Saturday with the champi­onship game scheduled to get un­
derway at 7 p.m. 
"Clemson really intimidated the heck out of us," said McCann. "We weren't mentally ready. I was disap­pointed in our performance because we worked so hard in practice." 
The Irish had an easy time with Southwest Missouri State and captured a 39-1 5 decision. 
The next day the Irish finsihed a surprising second in Clemson's Tiger 8 Tournament. This time, however, the Irish handled tourney champion Clemson much better. 
"Our guys had some close matches this time even though we didn't win them," said McCann. "But that's what we're looking for. We were a totaUy different team. We just want them to go out there and open up." 
Up until Christmas the Irish wrestled without a heavyweight, but freshman footbaU walk-on Dominic Prinzivalli did a good job anchoring that spot during break. The 6-5 Prin­zivalli finished the trip with a 2-2 mark and a fourth-place finish at the TigerS. 
Irish 
continuedfrom page 16 
first 2:04 minutes of the first round in his 142-pound match. 
"Heintzelman really turned it on," said McCann, "and he scored early. That's what we wanted to do from the start." 
Scott Biasetti, filling in for the injured Luke DiSabato, lost the only match of the evening for the Irish in a 12-2 defeat at 1 50. He scored the 

[ ................................................................................................'! 
NICK & KENNY'S 
oresents 
= THE VOYER BAND 
dais Fri & Satonly Dancing& DrinkSpeciGJa 
i .............................................................................................._~~ 
Go To 
\York ForAn••• OR A TIGER, A CLOWN OR EVEN ACAT! 
THE MEDIA DEPARTMENT OF 
LEO BURNETT 
...EH 

Ernie The Keebler Elf, Tony The Tiger, Ronald McDonald, and Morris The Cat are clients who offer challenging opportunities. The rewards of working with them are UNCOMMONLY GOOD! 
Ifyou are interested in learning about a career in the fast-paced advertising media industry come to: Morris Inn, Alumni Room at 7:00 pm for an infor­mative pres~ntation folh..wed by refreshments. 
TUESDAY, JANUARY22 

first points of the match with a takedown and led 2-1 at the end of the first period, but he hit a scoring dry spell for the rest of the match. 
Freshman Ken Kasler won a relatively close one at 1 58, but the Ohio native led throughout en route to an 8-3 decision. 
"Kasler did a nice job," praised McCann. "He's going to be a good wrestler some day. He's smart and he pays attention." 
The ever-reliable John Krug had an easy time with his opponent and scored a convincing 12-4 decision at 
167. Captain Phil Baty got fired up in the second round of his 177 pound match and got a technical fall as the round ended with his 1 7-2 drub­bing. 
Both of McCann's big boys also were victorious. Dave Helmer 
dominated  throughout  his  190­ 
pound match  en  route  to  a  com­ 
manding  20-6  score.  Freshman  
heavyweight  Dominic  Prinzivalli  
won by forfeit.  



The Observer Friday, january 18, 1985-page 13 
Arguments seem convincing for both Super teams 
Dolphins 
Associated Press 
STANFORD, Calif. · It starts with Dan Marino · and that's where it ends. 
Nobody has been able to cool off the Miami Dolphins' quarterback. Some of the best defenses in the Na­tional Football League have tried and failed. The San Francisco 49ers will be no different. 
They will have their moments. But so will Marino · quite a few of them. A 30-yard pass here, a 50· yarder there. Mark Duper on the fly. Mark Clayton on a crossing pattern. Tony Nathan over the middle. 
And the Dolphins will run, too. 
Woody Bennett and Nathan may not 
be Larry Csonka and Jim Kiick, but 
between them they rushed for 1,164 
yards during the season and 214 
more in the playoffs. 
But it all comes back to Marino 
and the men who protect him. 
Florida in South Bend 
If you want a beautiful bronze tan, or just a periodic touch-up to keep your tan, we've got many plans to choose from. 
AVOID THAT PALE LOOK! 
ir------------------------------1 FREE TANNING SESSION 
l 

I I 
I I
I Just present this coupon I I Please call for appointment: 234-5350 1 
~------------------------------J 
In just his second pro season, Marino made a lot ofpeople · well, a few, anyway · forget about Bob Griese, the quintessential Dolphin quarterback. 
He displayed supreme confi­dence, almost arrogance, in his abil­ity to find any ofperhaps half a dozen receivers slicing through the sec­ondary and to fire or feather the ball to the open one · and someone is al­ways open. 
He threw the ball more than any quarterback in the NFL, 564 times, and was sacked only 13 times, a trib­ute to center Dwight Stephenson, guards Roy Foster and Ed Newman and tackles Jon Giesler and Cleveland Green. 
He threw for 5,084 yards and 48 touchdowns, both NFL records, and was intercepted only 17 times. 
The 49ers have an offense, too, with Joe Montana throwing to Dwight Clark, Freddie Solomon and Earl Cooper and with Wendell Tyler and Roger Craig running. 
But it is not the "on-any-given­play-we-can-pick-up-75-yards-and­aren't the no-name players of the Dolphins' Super Bowl teams of the 1970s. Statistically, they weren't the match ofSan Francisco's defense this year. 
a-quick-six-points"  attack  the  
Dolphins possess.  
Defensively,  Miami's  Killer  B's  

But perhaps the Dolphins gave up so many yards and :Z98 points be­cause the defense wa:; on the field so much time after Mrrino and Co. spent so little ofit racing for another touchdown. 
All signs point to a shootout Sun­day in Stanford Stadium, and Miami's got the biggest gun of all. Final score: Miami 42, San Francisco 24. 
49ers 
Associated Press 
STANFORD, CA. -Cancel out Don Shula and Bill Walsh. 
Cancel out whatever edge Dan Marino and the "Muks Brothers," Duper and Clayton, have over Joe Montana and Lo., with the edge that 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is acceptinq applications for the following 
position: 
Accounts Payable Clerk 
e Must be a sophomore majoring in accounting. 
esalaried position. 
Submit a resume to Dave Stepllenitch, controller, by noon Wednesday, January 23. For more information, call The Observer at 23B-5303. 
TheObsef'ler 3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 

---------------------------------------~ 
Wendell Tyler and Roger Craig have over Miami's runners. 
.Cancel out Miami punter Reggie Roby's margin over San Francisco's Max Runager, with 49er placekicker Ray Wersching over Dolphin Uwe von Schamann. 
What's left? 
The San Francisco defense. 
The 49ers will win Super Bowl 
XIX. They will win because Ronnie Lott, Dwight Hicks, Carlton William­son and Eric Wright will not be blown away by Duper and Clayton; because Keena Turner, Mike Walter and Todd Shell will stay with Tony Nathan and the Miami tight ends, and because Fred Dean, Gary Johnson and Dwaine Board will hurry Marino just enough. 

San Francisco defensive coordina· 
tor George Seifert has enough 
people to contain Marino · not stop 
him, just contain him. 

Let's go back a month, to the game in which the Dolphins knocked the Dallas Cowboys out of the playoffs for the first time in a decade. The Cowboys, with a dreary offense, were in contention for a playoff spot only because of their defense, and they limited Miami to 14 points for the first three and a half quarters before Marino got hot. 
San Francisco's defense is better than Dallas' · it hasn't allowed a touchdown in the playoffs. And while comparing Miami to the Giants and the Bears, the 49ers' two playoff victims, is like comparing a snail to a cheetah, the 49ers are talented enough on defense to hold the Dolphins to ... let's say some­where between three and four touchdowns. 
Enter the Miami defense, which has swung between good and awful this season. It's been most awful against the run, which means it will be fodder for Craig and Tyler, assum­ing he can hang onto the ball. If it adjusts too drastically, Montana, with Walsh calling the shots, can pick it apart. 
It's no picnic. If Tyler fumbles or Montana continues his playoff rate of five interceptions in two games, the Dolphins could win. Even easily. 
But if the 49ers play to their stan­dard and the Dolphins play to theirs, it should be: San Francisco 31, Miami 27 (von Schamann misses an extra point). 
Women 
continuedfrom page 16 
On the other end of the court, Notre Dame will try to continue to play the tough defense that has forced its opponents to shoot a poor 40 percent from the field. Detroit is not a particularly good shooting team (.424 percentage), so it is im­portant for the Irish to use their height advantage to keep the Titans from getting second and third shots. 
CANCER. 
NOT 
KNOWING 
THE RISKS 
ISYOUR 
&REArm 
RISK. 

CALL 234-5350  OPEN  Walk-Ins  
143 Dixie Way South  M-F:9-8  Welcome  
Roseland-South Bend  Sat: 8-5  Only! mil,  
from campus  

Attention All Juniors Junior Parents Weekend Information 
The deadline for all returns is Jan.uary 31.1985. If your parents have not yet mailed in their registration forms please encourage them to do so as soon as possible! 
Also, if your parents have not received a registration form, you may pick them up in the Students' Activities Office in LaFortune. All parents SHOULD have received them before Christmas break. 
Also, if you would like to purchase add!tional tickets for any event in addition to those ordered by your parents on their registration form, or if you have any questions concerning registration, please contact Mary at 2206. 
1 
l 
j 
j 
j I 
j 
l 
l 
l 
l 
l 
~ 
! 
I 



,....-----~---------------------­
The Observer Friday,January 18, 1985-page 14 
Indoor track team begins home season tomorrow 
By NICK SCHRANTZ every year, and usually by less than 1 ,000-yard run and mile run. the 4x800 relay team won the event Irish in that event. Matteo should Sports Writer ten points. Hopefully, it will be close Sophomore Jeff Van Wie and at the Central Collegiate Conference continue to improve and help in the again this year." juniorJohn McNelis will see that the Meet in a time of 7:33.7. Also, Van pole vault. 
OnJan. 11 the Notre Dame indoor Iowa boasts an excellent group of 880-yard run is in good hands. Van Wie, Jackson, McNelis, and Shannon With a tough indoor schedule track team began its season at the sprinters and two fine middle­Wie capturedfirst place in the 880 at return to lead the mile relay team lying ahead, Piane has some worries, Western Michigan Open, a non­distance runners. In addition, the the Midwestern City Conference that captured first place at the Mid­but he says overall he expects good scoring meet. Although no official team has two good shot putters, one Meet, while McNelis had last western City Meet in a time of things from his team. team scores were kept, the Irish did who has thrown 57 feet, and a pole season's best time in the event 3:25.4. "We have a weakness in the 
well and gave hope for having a fine vaulter who has vaulted 17 feet. (I:55.1). Also, Sparks wi!I be looked Patterson, who holds first and weight events, but in time they'll season. Plane and assistant coaches Ed upon to score points in any of the second place on the all-time list for develop," Piane says. "We have 
Senior co-captain james Patterson Kelly and Ted Potts have 1 7 return­middle-distance events. the long jump and second place on strong quarter milers, jumpers, led the Irish with victories in the ing monogram winners from a team Along with Courtney, fellow the all-time triple-jump list leads the middle-distance men and distance long jump with a school record that in 1984 won the Midwestern cross-country members Mike Col­Irish in the field events. Autry will men." jump of 24-9, and the triple jump, City Conference Championships lins, Dan Garrett, Ed Willenbrink help in the long jump, while Gary Piane, in his tenth year as the Irish with a combined leap of 46-11. and placed third in the Indiana Inter­andJohn Magill will make the transi­Lehander will be a factor in the triple coach, says he feels that hard work, 
The Irish had two other individual collegiate Meet and the Central Col­tion to the track to lead the Irish in jump. spirit and team work could enable winners, sophomore Robert Nobles legiate Championships. the two-mile-and three-mile-runs. Constable high jumped 7-0 in his indoor track team to be as suc­and junior Uoyd Constable. Nobles One of the strengths of the Irish The Irish also can expect to have 1982 to set a school record and cessful as his nationally touted cross­won the 400-meter dash in a time of this year will be the sprinters. Senior competitive relay teams. Last year, returns to provide points for the country team. 
0:49.5 while Constable captured the Dan Shannon and junior Mitch Van high jump with a jump of6-10. Eyken return in the 600 and 300 
DeCicco's 24th year 

Freshman Nick Sparks had a yard dashes, events in which each second-place time of 1:57.3 for the ranks in the top ten in Notre Dame BOO-meters, while senior Phil history. Last year, Van Eyken set 
Fencers start season on right track 
Gilmore captured second place in meet records by winning the 300 the 300-meter dash in a time of and 440 yard dashes at the Midwes­By MICHAELJ. CHMIEL school, 24-3. They also knocked off of the three squads for the Irish, 
0:36.1. tern City Conference Meet, while Sports Writer Cornell, 20-7, and Temple, 22-5. senior captain Mike Janis is offto an­
Notre Dame also had four third Shannon won the 600 yard dash at Last weekend in Philadelphia, Pa., other good start with a 9-1 mark place finishers. Senior Tim Cannon that meet. After capturing third place in the Notre Dame captured the United after an outstanding 1984 record of ran a 4: 13 mile, sophomore Joel Alvin Miller tied the school NCAA Championship Tournament States Fencing Association's Col­40-3.Junior Donjohnson, a 1984 all­Autry triple jumped 42-2, freshman record in the 60-meter dash with a last spring, the Notre Dame men's legiate Open to round out a thus-far American and runner-up in the Chris Matteo pole vaulted 1 5-0, and time of 6.1 seconds, but he remains fencing team opened its 1985 perfect month of January. NCAA tournament, is adding sup­the I ,600-meter relay team had a questionable after a knee injury suf­season by sweeping six dual meets The key to this early success and port from the second spot with a 9-3 time of 3:26.6. fered during football in the fall. Fel­and a tournament during break. to future success for the Irish will be record this season. 
After the meet, Irish head coach low football players Milt jackson, the experience of the veteran fen­In the epee, a squad with more Joe Piane said he was satisfied with Brandy Wells, and Allen Pinkett also The Irish, led by coach Mike cers. The Irish have returned eight depth than last year, senior captain his team's performance. should play big roles on the track as DeCicco in his 24th year with a starters while losing only one to Andy Quaroni is anchoring the 
"We performed about as well as I well. record of431-40, are the odds-on fa­graduation. squad. Coming off a sixth-place thought we would," Plane stated. Nobles, senior Phil Gilmore, and vorite to capture their third national finish in the NCAA tourney and a 32­"Patterson, Nobles, and Constable freshman Tony Ragunas all will be title in nine years. Outstanding for the Irish in the 9 mark last year, Quaroni is 10-2 in all looked good in getting firsts. Nick helpful in the sprints. In fact, Opening the season on Jan. 7 in early dual meets has been defending the young 1985 season. Sparks didn't have a great time but Gilmore is second on the all-time list Boston, the Irish easily handled Har­NCAA champion Charles Higgs­Next for the Irish will be a tough he competed well, which is some­in the 60-yard dash, and last year he vard, 17-10. Following their initial Coulthard. The sophomore has eight-team tournament next thing you can't coach. Overall, I'm took third place in that event at the success, the Irish then went on to compiled a record of 13-1 in the foil weekend in Columbus, Oh. Among very pleased with the meet." indoor IC4A's. down MIT, 18-9,andPenn, 17-10. after going 43-6 last season. Junior the competitors will be Big Ten 
The Irish must now prepare for a Miller and junior Mike Brennan Traveling to Princeton, N.J., on captian Mike Van der Velden also has rivals Ohio State, Purdue and llli­dual meet tomorrow at the ACC at lead the Irish hurdling corps. Miller jan. 10, the Irish realized three more added his skill and established a 1 0-4 nois, Cleveland State, Cornell, Case 
1:30 p.m. against Iowa. Four of the holds the school record in the 60-additions in the win column. They record. Western Reserve and Michigan­last five meets between these two yard high hurdles with a 7.33 time, opened action by trouncinf:t t_he ~~~! ~ the sabre, perhaps the strongest Dearborn. 


teams had a margin ofvictory under while Brennan posted a 7.90 time in seven points, with two of the meets that event last year. being decided by one point. Last Cannon, Bill Courtney, and Craig year, Iowa defeated the Irish by a 68-Maxfield, all members of this year's 63 score. nationally ranked cross-country 
"The meet should be a real dog­team, will be strong in the middle­fight," Piane said. "Its always close distance events, especially the 
Senior Bar••• too close to miss 
----...ridav------­
10·2 LATENIGHTHAPPYHOUR 
50e beers 75c mixed 
_____....;;~aturday______ 
9:30-11 HAPPYHOUR 
40 c drafts 
Seniors' Beginning-of-the-end Week 
CHICAGO TRIB DORM DELIVERY 

$22.00 7 days/ week all semester 
(St. Mary's included) 
call Jim at 283-2299 
TONIGHT AND TOMORROW NIGHT FRIDAY AND SATURDAY 7:30pm-QUITTING BUSINESS 
SOUTHSIDE FURNITURE &WATERBEDS 
2511 South Main St. South Bend (South of Krogers at Mam (Ew1ng) Ph. 289-7283 Thrifty Furniture Buyers Are All Heading For 
THE AUCTION 
AFTER YEARS WE SAY GOOD·BY AND THANKS FOR YOUR BUSINESS IN THE PAST. WE ARE FORCED TO CLOSE. LARGE STOCK OF FURNITURE, WATER BEDS AND ACCESSORIES. 
FACED WITH AN EMERGENCY WE MUST QUIT 
~ 
Bring Your T111ck or Trailer 
As an accomodation to you we have reliable, experienced furn1ture handlers at your serv1ce to make delivenes at very small cost. In fairness to everyone nothing Will be sold at pnvate sale. 

This Is Your invitation to get 
Don't Miss a 

the Home Furnishings you have 
Single Sale 

long needed at your own pnces 
Limited space at the 

Merchandise w111 be sold fast and 
store makes it impossi­

furious. No b1ds re1ected We are 
ble to show our entire 

pos1t1vely liquidating our entire 
stock of merchandise. 
Overflowing with tme
stock. 
furniture.

No 011t Ca. Sell Y11 New Ftlllillrt As Low 
As Yoa Ca. Bay At A1ctioft. EY..-,tlli11 
Everyone's lnwited. 
Is leilte Sold To 1M HiPtst lillller. 

MAKE YOUR OWN SELECTIONS-Pay Your Own Price Brass accessories-Large lot of bedding-Brass beds. Here are a few of the many fine selections: Finest quality name brands, nationally advertised living room suites, bedroom suites, kitchen furnishings, many recliners, base rockers, lounge chairs, room-size rugs, table lamps, chrome dinettes, sofa beds, utility cabinets, matt­
resses, lamps, cocktail tables, sofas, chairs, etc. (many small articles not listed.) articles not listed.) 
CASH, CREDIT CARDS, PROPER ID-STATEIENTS lADE DAY OF AUCTION TAKE PRECEDENT 
OPEN DAILY FOR INSPECTION 
Sale conducted by Col 1Boatwrillrt and Suff at larioa, 1111. Alctioaeer. Col. Llhatwnpt 
lelllbers of llatio11l Alctioleer IIIII I. A. A. 317-864-1943 
Liquidation And Cash Raisiq AlctioiiS-New Ftnitlrt Stores Oily. 



~c:tcJlC3L~-------------------------·--------------F-ri_d_ay_,_Ja.n_u_ruy 1_8_,1_9_8_5_-_P~age~ 

Doonesbury 
Y{)() KNOIAJ, PfJI<&, 7Hc flXITICAL TRAN5­PLANT TUJINOW6Y 
REAUY REP!<£­5CN75 A8REAJ<­
7HRIJU6H.. 
I 
Tank McNamara 
~JII'il 
BOW&. 
N£D\~ HRR~ 
DAY FIVE 
Bloom County 
~ ~ 

I THINK. 
1H€f?Ef()({E•.. 

I {)(}N'T KNOW, JANATA. 5Pf3N[}fN6 
A MIU!ON 5MACK5 JIJ§T 70 CREATE ON& RE7W1.EP CONCERNE.lJ CITIZ&N 
~/(£:.5 Mt !N5AN&. 
Garry Tru~eau 
5URE. GE.Ne 5P/..ICING. BUT 
YOUHAV87D 
IAJAIT 18 YEARS 
70 FINO 01JT \"How TH&YU 
tVOT/3. I 
Jeff Millar & Bill Hinds 


Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
I 11M. 
IMI/ 


The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 38 Love Lat. 68 Unit of work 12 Arabian gulf 1 Motor coach style 69 Pretty woman 15 Moves quickly 4 Money 39 Decree 70 ClothAS 18 Nacre 8 Turk. city 42 Fasten 71 Tint 22 Energy 
13 Brother Jona-24 Jutlander than: abbr. 43 Columbus' 14 Bay window starting point 
27 Crimson or 16 Like most 45 Animal foot DOWN claret streets 46 Circle 1 Arrests 29 Cart 17 U-boat 47 Miller's 2 Normal 
30 Arab chieftain 19 -a dozen "After-" 3 Native-born 
31 Breathing (cheap) 50 Kicker's grp. Israeli 
sound 32 Entranced

20 Fortune· 4 Beard 
telling card 52 Preface 5 Make a mistake 33 Oriental nanny 34 Function
21 Singing John 54 Cubic meters 36 Point23 Scheduled 58 Race track 40 Container25 Slender and 61 Century plant 6 52 in Rhaetia 
41 "-the night

tapering 62 Hawaiian 7 Inclines before..." 26 Learn veranda 8 "-star· 44 Pilchard
28 Burn slowly crossed lovers" 32 Hard to find 63 Sentimental 9 Arachnid 48 Base 35 Trap journalist 10 Rara-49 Building 37 Pro -(fol· 66 Oak nut 11 Captain of contract lowing rules) 67 AJohn fiction 51 Blots 

53 "-Kentucl(y 59 Unit of lengtn 
Home" 60 Organic 55 Estimated compound 56 -so often 64 Unit of heat: 
abbr.
57 Suit material 65 Turf58 Thick piece 
Yesterday's Solution 


Campus . 
Friday,Jan. 18 
•4 
p.m. -Deadline, 1985 Nazz Entertainment Competition Entry Forms, Turn in Forms at ·stu­dent Activities Office, S5 Entry Fee. 

•4 
p.m. -Snow Sculpture Contests, Fieldhouse Mall, Judging and Prizes, Sponsored by Student Ac­tivities Board. 

•4 
p.m. -Tertulia, Main Room of Lafortune Sponsored by Notre Dame Spanish Club New Members Welcome. 

•
7, 9 & 11 p.m. -FUm, "Risky Business," Engineer­ing Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, Sl.50. 

•9 
p.m. -Dance Party, Featuring the Band The Sub­urbs, Stepan Center, Tickets -$4.50 in Advance (Record Store), S5 at Door, Sponsored by Student Activities Board. 

•7 
-9 p.m. -SMC Faculty Art Exhibidon Opening, Moreau Hall, All Galleries. 

Saturday,Jan. 19. 

•1 
p.m. -SMC Basketball, SMC vs. Franklin Col­lege, Angela Athletic Facility. 

•1:30p.m. 
-IndoorTrack,NDMenvs.lowa,ACC Fieldhouse. 

•7, 
9 & 11 p.m.-FUm, "Risky Business," Engineer­ing Auditorium, SI.50. 

• 
7 & 9 p.m. -Don Novello as Fr. Guido Sarduccl, Washington Hall, Tickets-$5 in Advance (Record Store), S6 at the Door, Sponsored by Student Activ­ities Board. 

•8 
& 10 p.m.­


Sunday,Jan. 20 

•1 
p.m. -Basketball, NO Men vs. DePaul, ACC Arena. 

•
2 p.m. -Swimming, NO Women vs. Ball State, Rockne Memorial. 

•8 
p.m. -Discussion, With James Cone, Theolo­gian and Author, Union Theological Seminary of NYC, In Conjunction with Martin Luther King's Birthday, Library Lounge. 


TV Tonight 
8:00p.m.  16  "V"  
22  Special  -How Bugs Bunny Won the  
West  
28  Benson  
34  Washington Week in Review  
8:30p.m.  22  Special· Any Which Way You Can  
28  Webster  
34  Wall Street Week  


J!I!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!W........................ 
TONIGHT AND SATURDAY NIGHT 
7:00, 9:00, 11 :00 
Engineering Auditorium 
$1.50 
• The SAB presents .. . 

WELCOME WEEK I 
•i

i 
THURSDAY: Free Tubing at Bendix Woods -buses leave main circle at 7:30pm FRIDAY: Dance party with the SUBURBS at Steoan • Center -8:00pm tickets at the record store + 


SATURDAY: Fr. Guido Sarducci at WashiniDon Hall 7:00:+ and 9:00 shows -tickets at the record store SUNDAY: Snow 5_culpture Contest on Field House Mall judging and Prizes at 4:00 • 


lliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiil,.-4~·····..•••••••.......+6 

r-----------------------------~~-.---------------------------------------------------------.-----~-------------------­
Friday,January 18, 1985 -page 16
S~orts 
Irish hope for revenge over DePaul Blue Demons on TV 
By LARRY BURKE Horizon last month, and Notre avoid a similar occurrence in Sun­
Sports Writer 
Dame now has the rare opportunity day's game. to even the score in the same season. "The first game with DePaul was "Power week," as Irish Coach Dig­
The last time these two teams had an important experience for us," ger Phelps calls it, has arrived. 
two regularly-scheduled meetings notes Phelps. "This time, the score Having won eight of its first eleven 
in the same season was 1968-69, and won't be 95-83. We won't gamble games this season, Notre Dame is 
the Irish swept both those games. In with the press as much this time be­about to begin what is perhaps the 
the 1977-78 season, DePaul nipped cause DePaul is so good against it. most difficult seven-day stretch on 
the Irish, 69-68, in the regular We'll be more consistent it.~ schedule, as the Irish will take on 
season, but the Irish returned the fa­defensively this time. Ifwe get up in DePaul, Dayton, and Maryland 
vor when it counted most, beating the 90s against DePaul we're in trou­during that time. 
the Blue Demons, 84-64, to win the ble. If we can keep the score in the It all starts this Sunday when the 
NCAA Tournament's Midwest 60s and 70s, then we have a chance." I Oth-ranked Blue Demons visit the 
Regional Championship. In that last meeting, DePaul ACC for a I p.m. contest that will be grabbed an early 18-6 lead, and televised nationally by NBC. This season it is DePaul, 10-3, that 
Notre Dame never really recovered. The DePaul contest, while provid­has the edge, with a lineup that 
The Blue Demons shot better than ing the Irish with an important op­features an impressive blend of 
60 percent in that contest, and portunity to open a few eyes on the strength and quickness which few 
Notre Dame never got closer than national scene, also provides the in­teams can match. It was the Blue 
five points. Tyrone Corbin and Dal­centive of revenge. No one under Demons' power on the boards, 
las Comegys each scored 20 points the Golden Dome has forgotten the combined with their speed on the 
for DePaul, while Kenny Patterson 95-83 defeat dealt to the then­transition game, that put away the 
added 14 and Kevin Holmes had 11. undefeated Irish at the Rosemont Irish last time, and Phelps is out to 
Corbin (eight rebounds) and Holmes (seven) kept the Irish off the boards, and Patterson (nine assists) ran the transition game .to perfec­tion. The Irish scored 83 points in

Uninspired wrestlers 
Th~ Ob~cr/FUc Photo 
that game, but Phelps is still looking 

Kenny Patterson will lead tbe DePaul Blue Demons in an inva­
for improvement offensively.

destroy Defiance, 41-6 
sion oftbe ACC Sunday afternoon for a nationally televised con­
"We'll play smarter this time," 

test. In tbe last meeting between DePaul and tbe lrisb, Patterson, 
says the Irish coach. "We'll work the

lot of weight to wrestle at 118, and
ByJOE BRUNETI1 witb 14 points, was one offour Blue Demons scoring in double that seems to have had some effect 
ball around and look for good shots.

Sports Writer figures. Notre Dame will try to allowfewer points to DePaul tbis 
on his performance. 

time around, as Larry Burke andjeffBlumb explain in tbe related 
"Locksmith wasn't stable at his see MEN, page 11
It was one of those meets where stories on tbispage.weight," commented McCann. "It's
it's very hard to get psyched up. really tough for him to lose that
Last night the Irish wrestling team weight, but I think it was more men­
First North Star game 

entertained little Defiance College tal than physical. He'll do better
at the ACC and prevailed, 41-6. But once he stabilizes at 118."
one could tell that the Irish weren't Junior Eric Crown fired up the 
Women's team heads to Detroit
really pumped for this one, and with · Irish at 126 with a devastating 16-2
good reao;on: last year the Irish mauled the Yellowjackets, 49-0. decision. Freshman Ron Wisniewski By MIKE SULLIVAN provides a great opportunity to though Detroit is giving up about 70 
Sports Edttor

followed suit and chalked up an­salvage a very successful season out points a game, a rather high figure, it 
"They were better than I thought other win with a 14-5 trouncing ofa mediocre one. also is scoring about 72 point.<; in
they would be, and I think our kids over his Yellowjacket opponent at One of the great things about That is precisely the situation for each contest.
felt the same way," said first-year 134. being in a conference is that it gives the Irish as they begin their North The Titans have made up for theirIrish mentor Fran McCann. "I don't Senior Don Heintzelman came you a concrete goal -a conference Star Conference schedule with a lack of size -only one starter
think we pumped our kids up 
championship-to shoot for.

out of the blocks at full speed, and brutal three-game stretch of road measures six feet -by taking advan­enough." 
When you are 7-6, still far from a

"the Muncie Mauler" had a technical games against three oftheir top con­tage of their speed. Sophomore Cas­Senior Guy Locksmith started the 
Top 20 ranking, like the Notre Dame

win by chalking up 1 5 points in the ference opponents. The first stop sandra Pack, a forward at only 5-9,action at 118 pounds and could only women's basketball team, having a will be Calihan Hall in Detroit as the lead<; the team in both scoring andmanage a 5-5 tie at the end of three see IRISH, page 12 chance to claim the conference title team takes on the Titans of the Uni­rebounding. Her 19.3 scoring
round-;. Locksmith has had to lose a 

Fans can influence big game 
There should be no question as to what Sunday's game with DePaul means to the Notre Dame basket­
Jeff

ball team. It will be -without a doubt -the most im­portant game the team has had so far this season. A 
Blumb

win, not such a remote possibility, would really be a springboard for success the rest of the season. A loss 
Assistant Sports Editor 
would be a bitter pill to swallow as the team heads into what Irish coach Digger Phelps calls a "power 


week," with both Dayton and Maryland just over the horizon. helped the Demons keep control of the game once 
The Irish have played well in each oftheir last two Notre Dame dug itself an early hole. Sunday's crowd games, the last-second win over Marquette on the at the ACC needs to help the Irish maintain control road and Wednesday night's thrashing ofHoly Cross. this time. Notre Dame got big spurts in both those games, and The team will be very ready for this game. It will it will need to do the same Sunday to beat the tenth­work hard to shut off DePaul's transition points and ranked Blue Demons. The Irish also need to get the offensive rebounding of the Demons, two areas some point production from their front line. David which killed the Irish last time. The game truly will Rivers cannot, and will not, always come through in be a test ofhow far the Irish have come in the last six key situations, nor should he be expected to do so. weeks. 
Rivers is a much smarter player than he was on The players realize this. The coaches realize this. Dec. 8 oflast year, when the two teams first met this And the fans realize it, too. This will be the first test season and DePaul came away a 95-83 winner. He for many as Notre Dame begins the meaty part ofits plays more under control and his shot selection has schedule. This one will set the tempo for all the rest. improved by leaps and bounds. Ifthe Irish are able to win their next three games, 
Phelps has said that the Irish will continue to play they should jump into the Top Twenty, which has their up-tempo game with the Demons and will not been a goal of the team all season long. The Irish are slow the ball down. The difference this time is that in control of their own destiny, for the most part, in the Irish will be looking for good shots rather than this respect. But the students can certainly lend a forcing the ball up, something they did at times in helping hand Sunday, as well as next Wednesday the first meeting. If Notre Dame starts forcing shots, against the Flyers. turning the ball over, and lets DePaul take control of Sunday's game should be prove to be a great one. the game, the score will be in the 90's again-which A national television audience will be watching on is llkely to tran.~late into a loss. NBC-TV and all the elements for an upset are there. 
That is where the students come in. It will be vital After Wednesday night's game, Phelps had one for the students, through their support, not to allow promise to make. "I guarantee you it will be a clas­DePaul to get control of the game and run wild. It sic," he said. "I guarantee it," he repeated. was awfully loud in the Rosemont Horizon on that Something about the way he said it told everyone December afternoon earlier this season, which only he really meant business. 
versity of Detroit tomorrow. Games average makes her one ofthree Titan 
in Chicago against Loyola and players to average in double figures. 
DePaul will follow next weekend. Senior guard Regina Pierce provides 
"The conference championship is some outside scoring punch by very important to us," said Irish scoring over 1 S points each outing, coach Mary DiStanislao early in the while 5-1 1 junior forward Bridget season. "Our goal is to get into the Howard adds I 0 points per game to NCAA Tournament and it seems help Pack inside. Lori Wydryck, a 6-0 highly unlikely that we would get a center, and Clarice Pearce, a 5-7 bid ifwe don't win the conference." guard, round out the starting lineup. 
At this point of the season, it ap­"We're going to have to be very pears unlikely that a bid will come intelligent in defensing their transi­unless the Irish can roll through the tion game," explains DiStanislao. 14-game conference schedule "We're going to have to control the nearly unscathed. That could be boards and the tempo and take care very difficult in the much-improved of the ball ourselves. North Star, which appears to be de­"We can't afford a slew of turn­veloping a five-team race for the overs against them, and, to do that, title. The three upcoming Irish op­we can't succumb to their pressure. ponents figure to provide serious We know going into the game that challenges, as do Notre Dame and they're going to press the ball and Dayton. we'll just have to use that to our ad­
"The next three games are ex­vantage." tremely important for us," says DiS­DiStanislao will be relying tanislao. "They'll be a real indication primarily on the play ofguards Laura ofhow good we really are." Dougherty and Mary Gavin, and for­
The Irish are going to have to play ward Trena Keys to bring the ball up very well ifthey are to escape with a court against the Detroit press. If win over Detroit tomorrow. Al­they can get the ball to the taller though the Titans have a 7-6 record, Irish players like Carrie Bates, Sandy they are 4-2 at home with both Botham and Mary Beth Schueth, losses coming against teams that are Notre Dame could break its season· ranked in the Top 20 -Washington high total of 76 point.<;. 
and Long Beach State. DeWayne Keys, Dougherty and Bates have Jones has done a tremendous job led the Irish attack through the first with the Detroit program which was 13 games and it should be no differ­in shambles two years ago after the ent against the Titans. Keys has been head coach quit suddenly. The particularly impressive of late, Titans tied Notre Dame for second scoring 89 points in the past five place in the conference last season games. Dougherty, too, has provided behind Loyola. a much-needed outside scoring 
Jones has improved the team's threat by averaging 13 points over performance by recruiting heavily the past seven games. Bates, despite some of the best high-school talent a four-game slump, is averaging 13.4 in Detroit and by turning the Titans points per game. into a running team which thrives on its tough pressure defense. AJ-see WOMEN, page 13 





