-~-----~-------------------------------------------------., 
An Tostal -page 8 
senrer======= 
VOL XIX, NO. 136 till' imkpt'IHklll ~llidl'llf lll'\I~J1.1J1lT 'olTI 111)..: ll<){fl d,lllll' ,111d ~.1111{ 111.11'1 ·., MONDAY, APRJL 29, 1985 

Notre Dame's own Kel'in Herbel'! won Saturday's MIV!MS Rock-Alike contest by out-rockin' the Unit,ersity of Wisconsin's Madonna ( abot•e), Miami of Ohio's Vani~v (below), and Northu•estern's t•ersion ofMick 
]agger (below, left). 
Professor Rogers dead at 51 
Special to The Observer 
Stephen J. Rogers, a professor in the Notre Dame department of liberal studies, died Friday of an apparent heart attack at ap­proximately noon in the emergency room of Memorial Hospital. He was 5 I. 
He had been blind since early childhood and taught poetry and other classes at Notre Dame since 1961. He graduated from the Uni· versity's liberal studies program in 1956. 
He also held a doctorate in comparative literature from Harvard l 1niversity and could read five languages. 
In 1974, his book. "Classical Greece and the Poetry of Chenier, Shelley and Leopardi." was published. Numerous other scholarly and philosophical works of his were also published throughout his career, most recently concentrating on what Rogers called "different ways of knowing." 
Rogers helped to develop a course in the Notre Dame ar­chitecture department which taught students how to design build­ings that are esthetically attractive and accessible to the blind. 
"He was one of the most inspiring teachers a·t Notre Dame because of his excellence in the face of a significant handicap," said Walter Nicgorski, liberal studies chairman. 
He was born Aug. 19, 1933, in Maiden, Mass. In 1960, he married Dana Adomkaitis, who survives with two daughters, Andrea D. and Maria L., at home; three sons. Paul A. and JohnS., both at home, and Thomas). ofSouth Bend. 
Also surviving is his sister, Mary Buckley of Malden, and a brother, Paul F., of Wilmington. Mass. Services for Rogers were held this morning at I 0 at Sacred Heart Church. Burial will be in Riverview Cemetery. He was a member of the Holy Cross Catholic Church. 
L-------------------------------....1 p.m., Brown said. 
ND/SMC professors voice opposition to aid for Nicaraguan rebels 
ByJOHN HINES 
Copy Editor 
Two hundted and sixty-five Notre Dame and Saint Mary's faculty mem­bers have signed a document sup­porting the U.S. Catholic bishops' opposition to any military aid to Nicaraguan rebels. 
The statement, titled "The Cat­holic Church and Central America," was releaSed earlier this month. 
"The situation is of such great so­cial inequity, it calls for an economic and political solution rather than military." said Father Robert Pelton director of the Notre Dame Institute for Clergy Education and a signator of the Notre Dame document. 
Endemic Social Inequity is the "core problem" in Central America according to the April 1 7 statement of the U.S. Catholic Bishops' Con­ference opposing aid to Nicaraguan rebels presented to the House of Representatives by Cardinal john O'Connor. 
"They (countries in Central America) will blow (up) because there's extraordinary under­development from a material point of view. There are great class dif­ferences." continued Pelton. 
'!be bishops have labelled the at­tempted overthrow of government, which we are not currently at war with and are maintaining diplomatic relations as "illegal and immoral." The bishops also believe that it jeopardizes the political process in the region. 
"It violates treaty obligations and undermines the moral standing of the United States in the world com­munity," noted the bishops' state­ment. 
Essentially, the bishops oppose 
Nicaraguan military aid from any 
source and advocate a political solu­
tion as the only resolution to the 
conflict in the region. This is in op­position to the Reagan administra­tion's admitted policy of covert operations to destabilize the present marxist Sandinista government there. By supporting the bishops, the signators oppose the administra­tion's policy. 

"There's a basic message ofsaying there are other ways to bringabout a peaceful solution in Central America," said Monsignor joseph Gremillion director of the Univer­sity's Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry and signator of the docu­ment. 
The solution is "to encourage the Contadora process and, second. to start cultural and economic ties," explained Peter Walshe, professor of 
government  and  international  
studies  and  director of  African  
studies.  

The Contadora talks are an at­tempt by Mexico, Panama, Colum­bia, and Venezuela to arrive at a peaceful solution to the problems facing all ofCentral America. 
"Nicaragua has no other place to trade than with the United States. We are forcing them away from us," continued Walshe. 
"I think the bishops have cor­rectly diagnosed that a military solu­tion is not the solution to the problems of Latin and Central America," said Prof. Walshe explain­ing his support for the document. 
Last Thursday the House defeated President Reagan's proposed S 14 million nonmilitary aid package to the Nicaraguan rebels. "I think the people and Congress have recognized the duplicity of asking (for nonmilitary aid) to the Contras. It's a tissue paper dragon saying we'll do it for humanitarian reasons," ob­served Gremillion. 
The New York Times reported Saturday that the administration will 
see NICARAGUA, page 4 

Natural gas explosion blasts town; 5 killed, 3 injured, 40 evacuated 
Associated Press 
BEAUMONT, Ky. -A natural gas line explosion killed five people, gouged a 20-foot-deep crater and flattened six buildings in a tiny com­munity, igniting fires that were visible 20 miles away, authorities said yesterday. 
Three people were seriously injured in the blast Saturday night that ripped up a section ofKentucky 90, devastated a mile-square area, and forced the evacuation of about 40 people. according to authorities. The dead included four members of one family. 
Dick Brown, a spokesman for the state Department of Disaster and Emergency Services, said two houses, three mobile homes and a saw mill were destroyed in Mar­rowbone Hill, a settlement about a mile east of Beaumont, whose population is 60. The blast site is 90 miles south ofI.ouisville. 
A crater I00• feet long, 30 feet wide and 20 feet deep was left by the blast, which occurred about 9:30 
"It was described to me as resem­bling where a bomb went off," said Bob Walter, a disaster and emer­gency services worker. "If you've ever been to Vietnam, that's exactly what it looked like." 
Four bodies were found Sunday in a destroyed wood house, and anot­her was found in a dwelling nearby. A temporary morgue was set up in a tent, and officials said they did not expect to find more bodies. 
The Cumberland County Hospital in nearby Burkesville treated two adults and a child who were injured. They were in serious but stable con­dition Sunday, a spokesman said, the· adults suffered from burns and the child from abrasions. 
The fire, extinguished early yes­terday, blackened the green rolling fields in the mostly agricultural area, and smoldering ashes spewed smoke yesterday afternoon. 
About 250 to 300 people were in­volved in Saturday night's rescue operation, said joe Cross, a DES spokesman. Among them were state police, fire marshals, eight volunteer fire departments, two rescue squads and an ambulance service. 

Shortly after the explosion, the gas source was cut off, but it took hours for the remaining gas in the line to burn, Walters said. 
Representatives of Texas Eastern Transmission Corp., the company that owns the gas line, were at the scene Sunday as investigators searched for a cause. 
A truck containing dynamite and one holding gasoline inside the blast area, "no longer pose a threat of ex­plosion," he said. 
Kentucky 90 was closed to traffic southeast ofGlasgow because of the blast damage. 
"You just can't describe it," said Joe Adams, a member of the Tompkinsville volunteer fire depart­ment that was called to assist. "We're 15 miles away and it's just like it's right here." 
The Monroe County medical center called in all its available staff to prepare for any injuries, a spokes­man said. 

The Observer Monday, April29, 1985-page 2 
r 
, ~ 
f 
, ~ 
, 
,r , ' ~ r 
' ~ ~ 
r 
r 
' 
~ 
t 
I 

In Brief 
Dillon Hall residentjoseph Auchter, a 
senior from jacksonville, Fla., wa..~ injured Thursday night at about I I :.:\0 when the vehicle he wa..~ driving strU<:k the traffic signal at Prarit: and Dubail Avenue, police said. According to South Bend police, Auchter said he was eastbound on Prarie when he failed to negotiate a turn onto Dubail and hit the traffic signal. He suffered minor facial bleeding and after treatment he was released from Memorial Hospital.· The Obsen•er 
When Lisa Birnbach visited Emory University 
for a speaking engagement, she wa..~ surprised by the wrathful recep· tion she received from students there. The students were angry be­cause she stated in Lisa Birnbach's College Book, the Emory's most salient feature was apathy and its student body the most blase. ·The Obsen•er 
New York City police commissioneran­
nounn·d a reshuffling of his top command Saturday after allegations hy four men that officers tortured them with electric stun guns. Commissioner Benjamin Ward, declared a "crisis in confidence" and added, "I will not tolerate brutal cops," as he announced the removal of Assistant Chief William Fitzpatrick, the commander of police in Queens, where the torture allegedly occured. The announcement came after a fourth man said he had been insulted, beaten and tortured at the 106th Precinct by two officers already accused of using stun guns on three drug suspects. Eighteen officers from the I06th Precinct have been transferred, four have been arrested and another suspended in connection with the torture complaints. -AP 
AmericanS are split On President Reagan's deci· sion of wht·ther or not he should have agreed to visit a German military cemt·tery. According to a Newsweek magazine poll released Saturday, a majority bdieve he should caned the visit. In a nationwide tdephone survey of 6.:B adults, 40 percent said Reagan was right in agreeing to visit the cemetery at Bitburg, where Nazi SS soldiers are among those buried, while 42 percent said he was wrong. Eighteen pt·rcent had no opinion. In light of the controversy that has arisen ovn the trip, 'i'i percent said Reagan should not visit the graveyard. and .:\6 percent said he should. Nine percent had no opinion. "I he poll, conducted by The (iallup Organization, had a mar· gin oferror of 'i pt·rcent. -AP 
Of Interest ·_ , 
The new service charges announced by the 
Notre Dame Credit Union go into effect Wednesday. Beginning with the May statement, members with share draft (checking) account balances below S'\00 at any time during the month will be charged $2. Members enrolled in special deposit plans will be excluded from the halance requirement. Other fees also will increa..~e. More in· formation may be obtained by calling the credit union at 239-6611. · 
The Obsen•er 
RASTA week continues today with a discus­
sion led by Paul Komyatte, co-founder ofRally against Starvation and president of the Notre Dame Young Democrats organization. The discussion, "'Ihe Situation in Ethiopia: Problems, Perspectives and What Can Be Done," will he held tonight at 6:30 in the Haggar Col­lege Center, Saint Mary's. ·The ObsenJer 

Weather 
• 
Wear those shades. Mostly sunny today with a high around 70. Clear and not quite as warm tonight with a low in the middle to upper 40's. Mostly sunny and warmer tomorrow with a high in the middle 70's. -AP 

Today·, issue w"' produced hy:
The Observer 
/Jesign Editor................ Mark Mcl.aughlin 
Design Assistant ....................... Paul Bruct~ ~ O!JKrnr (I'SPS W9 l-·1000) is Layout Staff .............................. Miriam !till puhlis~d Monday through Friday and Typesel/ers ................. Tracy Brin!(ardncr 
on hom~ football Saturdays. ~xcqn 
Cathyann Rc:ynoh.b during ~xam and vacation ~riods. lb., Neu•s Editor...... ... John llea,ly OIJK""'r is puhlish~d hy lh~ stud~nL• of 
C:opy Editor ............ ........ Margir Kersten t~ l 'niv~nily of Norr~ l>am~ and Saint .\ports Copy Editor............. Marc Ramirc:z Mary's CoU~!!C ~ubocriplions may tx­Vieupoint Copy l:'dit"r ........ John lk"'IY purctusc:d for 130 ~r y~ar ( 120 ~r ..,. Vleu.point layout.......... . 1\.c.~vin Becker m~SI~r) by writing lb., O!JKrv.,r, P.O Features Copy Editor.............. ~am Moorc: Box Q. Notr~ Oam~. Indiana 46~~6 f'eutures Luyout ............ Mark Mdau!(hlin 
~ ObKrv.,r is a m~mtx-r of lb., NIJ /Jay Editor....................... Aimee Storin AMoclakd P"'""· All •~production Ad Design ................ ... Allison Fahrcnkoat roghrs ar~ r~..,rv~d. Pbotogrupber..... . .................. Pete l.ach<'' 



Of used-car dealers and newspaper journalists 
When shopping for credibility and high ethical stan­dards, American adults will browse the newsstand right 
Sarah

before they stop at the used car dealer. It is quite a blow to members of the press to discover 
Hamilton

that mature American readers compare the fourth 
estate with those wily characters sporting smiles as 
Editor-in-Chief

suspiciously wide as the fenders on the jalopies they 
peddle. 
In the latest credibility study commissioned by the 

American Society of Newspaper Editors only 27 per­been criticized for assuming it knows what the public 
cent of the respondents rated newspaper editors as needs to know. The arg,Ument has been raised that 
practicing high ethical standards. Eighteen percent reporters and editors hurh a hearty, marketable story, 
regarded newspaper reporters a1> possessing such stan­oozing with controversy, lthen hide hehind the maxim, 
dards. Advertising executives and used car salesmen "The people have the rigtjt to know." 
were the only professionals to rate below the press. Someone has to decidelwhat to cover, and how to do 
In general, newspapers took quite a beating at the so. Someone has to decide what is news. In the past, this 
hands ofthis survey. Although the printed news made a task was fulfilled hy political parties, and even the 
strong showing in several categories, such as compl­government. It should hejnoted that politicians did not 
icated news stories and local news, television news was rank much higher than nt"Wspaper men and women nor 
the preferred medium and : the salesmen with the 
was rated more positively fender-like grins, in the 
reliable. ASNE survey. Jefferson, him­
The most basic problem self, said that he would not that reporters and editors hesitate to choose must face is to re-establish newspapers over govern­newspapers' most basic ment, if he could have hut purpose, "What is news?" one. Once the press re-evaluates The press determines the nature of the medium, it what is news. That's the way 
must convey this to the it is, and the way it will be in public honestly. the forseeahle future. 
Post-Civil War journalist, Newspapers must admit John Bogart, defined news, this, and the puhlic must ac­"When a dog hites a man, cept it. that is not news; when a man This is not a llnal sale, bites a dog. that's news." howt·ver. Editors and More generally, Charles reporters must get hack to Dana of the old New York the business of news. The Sun restated its detlnition as 1 press must return to the "anything that makes people practices offair and accurate talk." One of William Randolph Hearst's editor's, Arthur coverage. Truth is the sjandard model that print jour· McEwan, was more demanding. He required that upon nalists are selling. Althm~~h a newspaper should not tell reading a news article people say. "Gee whiz!" people what to think, in/ it~ nt·ws pages, it t·annot hdp 
James Kilpatrick, a 40-year veteran in the field, and hut tdl them what to ttlink ahout. This is part of the currently a syndicated columnist, offers a more realistic nature of the medium. I interpretation, "News is what I say it is." Yes, it is ar· Newspapers can ga~· the public's respect only 
rogant, but that is the way it is, said Kilpatrick. through better commun cation. 'Jhe press must work to 
Everyday newspaper editors determine what is news disseminate the news ore accuratdy and fairly, and by what stories they assign, how they edit their articles, must communicate itself to the public as honestly as it how they design their pages. In the same respect, can, stripped ofall arro!fmce that is not intrinsic in the reporters develop the news hy deciding whom to inter· medium. , · view, how to write their leads, how to phra..~e their If this is done, the ptjblic may notice that the horn stories. does not work, but it \\lill be more amazed and confi­
Subjectivity is an inherent element in the newspaper dent in the press's solid ody and rdiahle engine. business, even though journalists may wave the banner 
1 

I 'he fJbsenw La/'orrune oJJtc' tfceprs classqtea adllf!rttstngjr'Om 'J a.m.
of objectivity. The simple observation that editors and 
10 4:30p.m., Monday through F~day. The SaJnt Maty':!i office In the Regina
reporters are human shoots holes in that flag. 
Hall basement is o~n from noob to 3 p.m.. Mon<by through Friday. The
In determining the news the press says it reports 
deadline for next day service Is ~ p.m.
what the public ought to know. In the past the press has 

tJI........R·~·~.~~·;~..H·~·i·; ..·~ 

Styling 
531 N. Michigan St., i&ll Phone 233-4957 ~; 
~..................................................w. 
Notre Dame/Saint Marys Thea~re presents __,......~ 
Daria to's 

Shelter For The Homeless 
The Shelter For The Homeless closed for the season April 1, having provided 3,700 nights of lodging, and often meals, for at least 189 different men and women during 151 nights of operation.', 
A thousand thanks to the over 200 ND-SMC volunteers-students, faculty, staff! Without you we could not have done it! The Shelter will open next fall. We hope we can count on you then. 
The United Religious Community of St. Joseph County 


The Observer Monday, April29, 1985-page 3 
Groundwater monitoring of toxic landfills suspect 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON, D.C. Federally licensed landfills show extensive failure to comply with groundwater monitoring re­quirements, the chairman of a House oversight committee said yesterday, citing some data he said was shocking. 
Eighteen of 39 landfills that have received waste from cleanups of abandoned toxic dumps under "Superfund" had been ordered to undertake ex­tensive groundwater monitoring after indications of contamina­tion. said a report by the House Energy and Commerce Commit­tee's oversight subcommittee staff. 
"Ihe report was released in ad­vance of a hearing today on the Environmental Protection Agency's handling of groundwater problems at landfills. 
"Clearly. some of the data are shocking, especially when viewed from the perspective that the regulations called for com­pliance. . 3 vears ago," Rep. John Dingell, D-Mich., chairman of both the committee and the subcommittee. wrote to panel members. 
EPA officials said in a briefing for reporters that they would document for Dingell extensive efforts to strengthen enforce­ment and improve monitoring at 1 ,246 landfills. impoundment areas, lagoons and land treatment facilities required to undertake groundwater monitoring. 
Landfills without contamina­tion are listed as having adequate monitoring wells if they have four in groundwater, one upstream and three downstream. sampling four contaminants. Statistical tests on the sample results indicate whether an ex­pensive full-scale assessment must be performed. 
The subcommittee report found that ofall facilities. 559 had some indication of groundwater contamination. either by statisti­cal tests, by confirmed sampling, or by the undertaking offull-scale monitoring. 

Honorary degrees to be conferred 
Special to The Observer 
The announcement of 10 persons to receive honorary degrees at Notre Dame's !40th Commence­ment May 19 reveals the event will have an international flavor. 
Joining El Salvador's president, Jose Napoleon Duarte, a 1948 Notre Dame alumnus previously an­nounced as Commencement speaker, will be Italian Foreign Mini­ster Giulio Andreotti, the Secretary of the Chinese Academy of Science, Gu YiJian, also a graduate ofthe Uni­versity, and Father Byers Naude, general secretary of the South African Council ofChurches. 
TI1e complete list of honorary degree candidates includes: 
•Jose 
Napoleon Duarte, president of the Republic of El Salvador, doc­tor of engineering. A civil engineer­ing graduate who founded El salvador's Christian Democratic Party, Duarte first ran for president in 1972, and in May 1984 became the first civilian elected president of his nation in a half century. 

•Giulio 
Andreotti, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Italy, doctor of laws. A veteran mem­ber of the Christian Democratic Party in Italy, Andreotti was first elected to the Chamber of Deputies 


in 1948. He has served as minister ot Foreign Affairs since 1983, and is currently chairman of the European Council of Ministers. 
•Bruce 
Babbitt, governor of Arizona, doctor of laws. A geology graduate of Notre Dame in 1960, Babbitt went on to receive an M.S. in geophysics from the University of Newcastle in England and a law degree from Harvard Law School. He was Arizona attorney general from 1975 to 1978, when he succeeded to the governor's chair upon the death of the incumbent. 

•Eileen 
Farrell, soprano, doctor of fine arts. Farrell's professional career began on radio in 1941. A former soloist with the New York Philhar­monic Orchestra, she and her hus­band, Robert Reagan, now live in Castine, Maine. 

•Douglas 
A. Fraser, past president of the United Auto Workers, doctor of laws. A union member since his teens, Fraser became the sixth presi­dent of the nation's second largest union in 1977. In 1980 Fraser joined the Chrysler Board of Directors as a representative of its workers, a post he held until one year after his retirement from presidency of the union in 1983. 

•Gu 
Yi Jian, secretary general of the Chinese Academy of Science, 



doctor of science. Born in Peking in 1922, Gu received his primary education in China and was awarded his bachelor's degree from the Na­tional University in Chekiang before doing graduate work at Notre Dame, receiving his M.S. in chemistry in 1950. During the past semester, Gu has been a visiting Frank Freimann professor at Notre Dame. 
•
Donald R. Keough, president and chief operating officer of the Coca­Cola Company, doctor of laws. An employee of the company since 1950, Keough held a number of key marketing positions before being named a senior vice president ofthe Company in 1980 and as..'iumed his current position in 1981. He has been a Notre Dame trustee since 1978. 

•
Bette Bao Lord, novelist, doctor of humanities. A native of China, Lord came to the United States as a young girl in 1946. Lord's second work, "Spring Moon: A Novel of China," was issued in 1982 and won an American Book Award nomina­tion for first novel, and was on The New York Times Book Review's best-seller list for 30 weeks. 

•
Roman L.Mazzoli, representative from Kentucky, doctor of laws. A 1950 graduate of Notre Dame, Maz­zoli received his law degree from the University of Louisville Law School in 1960. He is a lav.'Yer in private practice, and was elected to the Kentucky state senate in 1967 

•
Father Beyers Naude, general secretary of the South African Coun­cil of Churches, doctor of laws. At one time a favored candidate for moderator of the Dutch Reformed Church, he denounced the govern­ment's racial policies after the Sharpville shooting in 1960 and was ostracized, his ecumenical Christian Institute of Southern Africa was outlawed in 1977. 

•Sister 
Marie Augusta Neal, professor of sociology at Emmanuel College, Boston. A member of the Sisters of Notre Dame de Namur, Neal's main research has been a study of the changing structures of the religious congregations of Cat­holic women in the United States. 


and  to  the  U.S.  House  of  
Representatives  from  the  state's  
Third District in 1 970.  



The Observer Monday, April 29, 198S -page 4 


Canadians protest war 
Associated Press giving up on the peace and disarma­ment issuej" Vancouver Mayor Mike 
OTfOWA, Canada · lbousands of Harcourt tilld the crowd. "We're not Canadians staged anti-war protests giving up,' and we're going to he Saturday and police in the federal around lmig after 'Star Wars' comes capital of Ottawa said five people and goes."I were arrested as they tried to erect 
In Ottawa. three men and two tents to spend the night on Parlia· women wctre arrested by the policement Hill. 
when they tried to set up tents onIn Vancouver, British Columbia, Parliament Hill, which has been protest organizers said 80,000 declared ·off-limits to overnightpeople attended a demonstration protesters1
against the United States asking Canada to participate in research for '!be arr~sts followed a march of President Reagan's proposed 200 peonle earlier in the day to Strategic Defense initiative, known express S\lpport for demonstrators as the "Star Wars" plan. whose t"'o·year-old "peace camp" 
Headfootball Coach Gerry Faust appears to be Saturday's weather provided an appropriate blue­quite popular with this crowd requesting grey autumnal background for the intrasquad autographs after Saturday's Blue-Gold game. scrimmage. 

24 rats, 2 squirrel monkeys readied for weeklong space shuttle mission 
Associated Press The squirrel monkeys, carefully mission manager, said the animals chosen to he free of herpes saimiri, are being treated humanely. 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. · While which infects 9'5 percent of their "We do not cause the animals any the seven-man human crew species, were put into the laboratory undue pain," he said. "I don't think received final briefings, 24 doomed yesterday. Herpes-free monkeys from our activities there are any 
rats and two squirrel monkeys were chosen because of a remote 
reasons to think they aren't being risk that the astronauts might be in­treated in the best possible fashion..
named "316'5" and "3tH-80" were loaded aboard the space shuttle fected with the cancer-causing form 
.. They are there, basically, for the ride."
<:hallenger, ready for a start today on of herpes, although they will not The animals' cages are beinga seven-day scientific mission. handle the animals. 
tested for future missions in whichThe launch is set for noon EDT. Using ropes, pulleys and plat· 
"All systems are forms, lowered the animal experiments will be per·
go," said jesse workmen formed. On this flight, the animals
Moore, din:ctor of the shuttle monkeys and the rats down Chal­program. "We are showing the lenger's middeck, through a tunnel will he studied for symptoms of and into the Spacelab. space sickness. lbe rats will be
thumbs up sign now." 
Animal rights groups have said killed after landing and autopsies
The weather looked good for lif­toff, the second this month, and they will picket the Kennedy Space performed. Challenger is to return to Earth on
NASA looked forward to the shortest Center on Monday. 
May 6, landing on the runways at Ed· interval between flights in the space "Challenger's liftoff means that wards Air force Ba~e. Calif., rather
shuttle program. Oiscovery landed every painful experiment per­than at the Kennedy Space Center, as
April 19 after a seven-day mission. formed on animals on Earth will now The previous "turnaround" he performed in space," said Alex a safety measure because Dis· Pacheco, chairman of People for covery's brakes locked and a tire
record was .H days. 
ruptured during its landing on April
'Jbe crew is comprised of com­Ethical Treatment of Animals. 
mander Robert Overmyer, pilot ButJoseph Cremin, the Spacelab 3 19. fred Gregory, physicians William 'Jbornton and Norman 'Ibagard, 
physicists Don Lind and Taylor 
Wang, and l.odewijk Van Oen Berg, a ~··················~ 
chemical engineer. Van den Berg, ~ Attention Juniors ~ horn in Sluiskil, the Netherlands, and Wang, horn in Shanghai, are iC Pre-Law Society iC naturalized United States citizens. 
, ~ In the shuttle's cargo bay is a 12· ~ Spring General Meeting ~ ton, barrel-shaped laboratory, 2.~ ~ feet long and 1.~ feet in diameter, 
~ t Mandatory informational t
where five scientists will conduct 
r 
around-the-dock experiments in 
r ifneeting for juniors planning tC>ie
materials processing, fluid mec· hanics, life sciences. atmospheric
r ~ 
' ~ attend law school
physics and astronomy.
r 
This is the second time that the $1 
, r 
billion. European-built Spacelab has iC April 29th, 7:30pm -tc 
r 
tlown. '!be first was in Ikcemher 
-tc Library Auditorium iC 
19H5.
,' iC Sophomores and Freshm~Q.weJcpme iC 
r 


Nicaragua •••••••••••••••••••• 
"You're involved and you're not was dism~ntled Monday. 

College of Science 
Distiugaislaed Scholar Lecture Series Preseuts 
Professor maria Borelli 
~IJ. mU llllffifllbtllillffiMc.m ·Computers iD Scieuce. lhlsi!Jess ud Sacietg: 
~ 
Tuudag. 8pril 30. 1985 
8:DD P.m. 

JlJlllJim;i] l;ltruill\1~ ~~--s~~.;,~~s~~~~~"'-)::.;::~,~~"->--..,.~~><t>-~~~~~ 

WANT A QUICKY? 
Quick tans in,our boothes withoiut that sweaty feeling! 
It's never too late to be a bronze God or Goddess 
'MN-HAWA1&N 
J.M.S. PLAZA 

4609 Grape Road Mishawaka UVB boothes & UVA beds 


~----------------------------------------------­

• $ $ave $ $ ·iifjiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
continuedfrom page I 
,f review its Nicaraguan policy. "'Inc 
525.00 IO 5150.00 OFF$ava do
goal of the review is to influence the
r 
situation in Nicaragua, to achieve 
SEE THIS MAP 
r 
On any Rent-it-Here, Leave-it-There 
our policy goals tht.·re of a free 
FOR YOUR SAVINGS
r society to have free elections," said a 
r 
RENT FROM SOUTH BENO TO ANY 
Ryder One Way Truck Rental
White House spokesman. 
OF AREAS AND SAVE.
r Among those signing the docu­ment are Suzanne Kelly, director of
~ 
Programs for Church Leaders, Fat· her 'lbomas Gedeon, executive director of Rt.·treats International, Fathn Ernest Bartell, executive director of the University's Helen Kdlogg 1nstitutt· for International Affairs, Kathleen Maas Weigert, assis· tant dire<:tor for social analysis ofthe Ct.·nter for Social Con<:erns, and Fat­her Patrick Sullivan, assistant profes· 
L 
TriMork ol Northern Indiana 219-294-7239 6002-6-5710 
sor ofsociology. 
-----------------------------------------------------------~ 

-~-------~ 
The Observer Monday, April 29, 1985 -page 5 
We the students of Carroll Hall wish to express our discontent with the dismissal of Father Steve Gib­son. He is more than our rector; he is our friend and we love him. He is what a rector should be. We are ap-
I 

pealing to the university to let him stay. 
KEEP FATHER STEVE 
If you wish to help this cause, clip and sign this ad and drop in campus mail. 
Fr. David Tyson 144 Dillon Hall 
signature 
1 
1 
~ 
j 

' ~i~~~_()__i_ll___t__________________M<-md-ay_,A_pr-il2-9,~19_ss
r __p_age-6 
r 
r 
, r If victim had had a gun, 
r 

r ~ he'd have killed mugger 
~ 
There is a parking garage helow Grant Park, in downtown Chicago, and two weeks ago,, Andy LeLand had the opportunity to walk 
r 
through it at I I ::\0 p.m. 
~ 
r 
In the daytime, when tht· garage is packed and cars in searl'h ofa spot are honking redun­dantly, you cannot hear the t{>otsteps of the commuters. But at night, the cars are gone, 
r 
Bob Vonderheide model based control 
and the sound of the pt.·oOie~ crunching heneath your shoe give you away as you sneak through the cement cave. 
'lnis is muggers' country, and two weeks ago Andy LeLand was mugged.
, 
He wasn;t much older than Andy· prohably 
~ 
~ 
youngt.·r ·hut other than age the two had not· hing in common. He was wearing a stained, yellow shirt with no skeves; Andy had on a r 
r 
hlue hlazer and gray slacks. In his right hand, the man held a hlack pipe
r 
which he caught in his left as it was snapped 
~ 
through the air. He looked tough, hut stut· 
r 
tered when he spoke. "Your wallet, man, r gimme your wallet."
r 
Crime had won another battk on the
r 
streets of America, and Andy IxLand stood
r 
there helplc:ss. He would find no help from the 
r
, police. and even if he did, he would find no hdp from the courts. Judges are too husy
r 
crossing their t's and dotting theirj's, and they 
,r ignore common sense at every turn. As Harper's editor William Tucker wrote, "Society can he hurning down around them ­murderers can he committed right in the hack of the courtroom · and they will he entirely ohlivious." In 19tH, Judge Morris Lasker freed 613 accused felons hecause he said New York's jails were overcrowded. But at the same time, Lasker would nut open 673 new cells on Riker's Island hecause he said they were not safe. Within 2--l hours of the release, a Harlem woman was raped hy a man with a nine-page criminal record. In Manhattan Criminal Court, the average defendant has seven prior arrests. Young mug·
r 
r gers are released on their own recognizance r with the warning "not to commit any further r crinlt.'s." 'Inert.• arc 300,000 outstanding
, 
ti.Jgitive warrants in New York City alone. 
Snaps Harvard crime expert James Wilson, 
"'Inert: aren't any liherals left in New York. 
'Jney've all heen mugged hy now." 
In America's major cities, there is little, if any, justice. Once a defense lawyer freed two Hassidic Jews accused of a near-fatal heating when he convinced the jury that all Hassidic jews look alike. 
A con man in Alhany once raised money from New York podiatrists which he said would he used to hrihe the State Legislature. He was arrested for attempted hribery, hut a defense lawyer convinced the jury that the man never intended to use the money; the con man wanted only to steal it. Thus, the lawyer argued, the man should be tried for grandlar· ceny. lne jury bought the argument, but shortly afterwards, the larceny charges were dismissed as douhle jeopardy. 
Crime is out of control, and unlike middk· 
class Andy LeLand, the most susceptihle are 
the millions of hard-working poor people. 
'Jnese people realize that America's thugs 
are not just children who should he allowed 
to grow out of it; they are hoodlums who 
would just as soon hlow your head off as 
empty your wallet. 
')nat is why Andy LeLand gave the man his wallet. 'Illere was not much more than SlO in it, hut Andy did not want to argue. He hegan thinking of the possessions he would lose-his hank cards, his driver's license, pictures of friends, a prayer handwritten by his grandmother -and he realized that being mugged was nut so much a financial loss as it was just a pain in the hutt. 
Ami then as if the man had read Andy's thoughts, he-this punk, this goddamned punk -he smirked. Laughing at another victim fallen prey to the lords of the streets. "'Illanks, man," he said as he skipped two steps backwards. 'Inen taking a glance over over his shoulder, he spun around and ran off into the darkness. 
Andy stood there like a pitiful fool. He was helpless. And as the anger grew inside him, he liftt.'d his hand and shaped it like a gun. He lowered his head and aimed at the robber down the gun barrd he imagined. "Die you bastard," Andy said as he pulled the trigger. "If I only had a gun, I'd kill you." 
Bob Vonderheide is a senior chemical en· gineering major at Notre Dame. 

fnJTH Afl!JCA fi.AYS INTER-RACIAL MARRINJE 


Look inside others and see the beauty of life 
As I look hack on my hiology labs of fresh· man year, I remember a semester spent dis­secting a fetal pig and how much I learned from that experience. 
I never really wanted to take biology, so it is a feat to admit to learning something. 
I rememher how much more !learned from actually getting my hands dirty and working 
Heidi Cerneka in the driver's seat 
stand and apprecijte the orculatory and structural system of >Ur pig. Granted, I did not get to see the heart pump. hut I still left lab understanding mor~ ahout biology and ahout 
my own physical S)l·tern. l'nfortunately I r cognize the same pattern in our society's t eatment of the under· privileged and ha dicapped. We lounge in front of our colore~ televisions and t1replaces in our cozy homes.jand when Goodwill calls, we leave a hag ofutftylish, discarded clothing on our front porch. 'Inen we pat ourselves on the hack for our enerosity. Or maybe we even donate mont: ·to the needy. All this helps, ye., hut how can we even fed the need and disi lusionment, when all we 
ever do is don o  r  gloves and stand hack,  
avoiding contact?  
How easy it is H  he hold and make contact  

when we know on · step back will return us to our own secure c >mfort and will eventually wipe away our r ·vulsion. We all know so much ahout the pnor and how to help them; we go to church; 1: read the papers; we are educated people. s long as "I do not have to touch or feel tl e anxiety of the under· privileged, I'll gi ·e generously." The funny thing is, we can g >through life never dissect· ing a pig, never re ching out to others and still live, but we will ertainly miss a lot of under­standing. 
Like the pig, a1 d us. the poor are made of flesh, bones an hearts. 'l11ink how much easier our lives w Jllld he to understand 1fonly we would look nside ourselves and others made just like us It's easy to he repulsed and to step back fro1 1 something we have never experienced in f ·ar of the unknown, hut it is harder to step h> ward and face the challenge ofa new experie ce. 
Oh, hy thew· y, my apologies for dragging my lah partner i to this, hut at least I did not use her real nam ·.And actually I have to thank her for provid ng the inspiration ti>r this column. , 
Heidi Cerne1.~ is a sophomore l'e/igious studies and En /ish u>riting major at Saint Mary•'s and is a egular Viewpoint columnist. 


, 1 
.., 
1

"ielYP-~O~i~n_t~---------------------------------------------M_o_n_cta_y_,_Ap_r_n_2_9_,_19_8_S___P_ag_e__7 ., 

P.O.BoxQ 
Students respond to Father Gibson's dismissal 
DearEditor:  disgust. It remains beyond my comprehen­ and wish to point out that everyone might still  love he gives to the  men  of Carroll.Father  
Our rector, Father Steve Gibson, has been  sion why Father Steve has been viewed in this  be  winners  if  the  situation  is  handled  Steve  extends  this  warmth  and  care  to  
asked to relinquish his position as Carroll Hall.  light, and I implore the administration to ex­ properly.  everyone who visits him. He always has time  
He does not want to leave, and we do not want  plain to me its reasons for judging FatherSteve  What is key here is that the mistake is rever­ for anyone who needs him.  
him to leave us.  unfit to run Carroll Hall.  sible.  Though I myself am not a resident of Car­ 
At  a  recent  hall council meeting, Father  Father Steve has, over  the course of this  AndyPhillips  roll, he treats me and many others like part of  
Steve told us, "You are the most important  year, been more than a rector of a residence  Carroll Hall  his family. Father Steve has given totally of  
people in my life." He cares for us and would  hall to me. I respect his authority as a rector,  himself to the people he loves, especially the  
fight for us. We love this man very much, and  but at the same time I consider him a true  DearEditor:  residents of Carroll. It would be a terrible  
now, we are fighting for him.  friend. It seems to me that he really loves Car­ Deja vu. Last year when the alcohol policy  shame to ask such a wonderful rector to leave  
Father Steve's goal for Carroll Hall was to  roll Hall, and I can assure you that the resi­ came out, I heard many seniors say, ''I'm glad  his family. Carroll Hall would never be the  
make it more than a place to live in; his goal  dents of Carroll love and respect him. He is a  I'm getting out now." This year, with the  same without him and many others like myself  
was to make our dorm a "home" for the 106  man to whom I do not feel uncomfortable ap­ removal  of Father  Steve  Gibson,  I'm  ex­ would never have the special chance to get to  
young men who live there. He has succeeded.  proaching if I have a problem, for I am sure  periencing the same feeling.  know him and share in the family spirit he  
Our dorm is mor.e than a building to live in.  that he cares enough to help anyone in need.  Father  Tyson,  show  us  that  concerned,  creates.  
We share a special community, a community  I am of the belief that Father Steve's way of  responsible students can make a difference.  Colleen Nolan  
that this University can be proud of-thanks to  handling problems and dealing with people  Lend us your ear and show us a willingness to  President  
Father Steve Gibson. He is an example for all  should be praised, not punished. The resi­ reconsider and reconcile differences.  FarleyHall  
of us as a loving, caring man. We are proud of  dents of Carroll have a healthy relationship  What's so funny about peace, love, and un­ 
him and cannot understand why he "does not  with their rector, one of mutual respect, and  derstanding?  DearEditor:  
fit the mold" of what a rector is supposed to  one that we all want to see continue.  Brian lee  Since my arrival here at Notre Dame in  
be. What is the proper mold?  It has been said that those who  cannot  ResidentAssistant  August, it has become apparent to me that this  
Ifa rector is supposed to be a model, a teac­ remember the past are forever condemned to  Carroll Hall  University and other Catholic schools seem to  
her, an occasional disciplinarian, a respected  repeat  it.  History  has  shown  that  Father  foster dependence and immaturity in their  
leader in the dorm community, a good friend  Steve's method ofhall administration has been  DearEditor:  students.  By removing  our  responsibilities  
and a preacher of God's word through words  the most successful yet in Carroll Hall. Some  Students are asking me "Why?" The HPC is  and many of our opportunities to make deci­ 
and good example -Father Steve should not  will say that Father Steve has been the only  asking me "Why?" People I do not even know  sions -in short, by acting like overprotective  
be asked to leave. He should be given a raise  truly successful rector of Carroll Hall.  are asking me "Why?" Why is Father Steve  parents towards adult students from 18 to 22  
and asked to teach a short seminar to some of  With this in mind, I must request that the  Gibson leaving Carroll Hall? The answer -I do  years of age -University administrators stifle  
the other rectors on campus. For whatever the reason, the administration has been rather close-mouthed about the entire situation. We are not trying to force the  administration reconsider its position con­cerning Father Steve. I believe that the best interests of all would be preserved if he remain at this University as rector of Carroll  not know. This is the man who wins Rector of the Year, this is the man who manages retreats, who builds ice rinks in the winter, and helps us, the residents of Carroll Hall and  our growth and strangle our personal development. To support this assertion I could point to any number of things about the University,  ,, ~  
administration into a corner. We are not trying to embarrass this University by staging  Hall.  Daniel M. Sophy  many others, to grow in every way we can. I really do not know what kind ofrector the  but an obvious example has surfaced recently. With so many changes in rectors and hall staff  1,  
a loud. attention grabbing protest. We care  Carroll Hall  llniversity wants. But, who is closest to and  in so many halls this year, the University has  1  
about this place and about this man. A simple  most influenced by a rector? The student. We  chosen to view Notre Dame students as young  1  
mistake has been made. and we are asking the  DearEditor:  know our rector ­we live across the lake with  children, rather ,than affording us the respect  1  
University to rectify it.  Agreat man, a great rector and a great friend  him 24 hours a day.  we deserve as adults.  1  
If you know this man you will agree, Father  is being treated badly by his fellow Holy Cross  I am  not suggesting that students should  As  a  resident of Carroll Hall, I am  most  1  
Steve Gibson is a valuable part of this Univer­ priests. Father Steve Gibson of Carroll Hall  hire and tire rectors. I do suggest, however, as  aware ofthe removal ofFather Steve Gibson as  1  
sity. Let Father Steve stay.  was fired from a job he does not wish to leave.  it is the student who knows the rector best in  rector of my hall. In my entire life I have only  1  
Paul Acampora  Apparently his position that students should  every respect including as an administrator,  met two other priests ofFatherSteve's caliber.  1  
Carroll Hall  be given respect and treated as adults is not in  the student should be able to help the ad­ Because he chooses to treat everyone in the  1  
line with the administration's view on how  ministration  make certain decisions which  hall with respect, we all love and respect him.  
students should be treated The worst thing,  greatly affect the lives of both the rector and  And because ofhim, we try to treat each other  
however, is that neither Father Steve nor the  the student.  with respect, even when we have disagree­ 
DearEditor:  student body has been given an adequate ex­ I believe many people throughout this Uni­ ments.  Father  Steve  views  Carroll  as  a  
It is inconceivable that the University can  planation of the  reason  why he  was  fired.  versity view Father Steve's departure  as  a  "community ofadults" and as such, it seems to  
rationalize the firing of Father Steve Gibson  Please help us keep our rector. The best way  mistake -those people who know him as rec­ work. Maybe that's why he won the Rector of  
while Gerry Faust keeps his position as head  to do this is to send letters to Father Hesburgh  tor and those who know how he has helped  the Year award last year and had honorable  
football coach.  and Father Tyson; if they cannot manage to  the hall and its students. It is also my belief  mention this year.  
Kevin Corbley  reverse a bad decision, at least they could give  that, for some reason, the administrators dis­ Still, the administration insists that "Father  
Can·ollHall  a clear explanation of why this action was  missing Father Steve are unaware ofhis model  Gibson does not fit the University's model of  
taken.  relationship at this University. I would simply  what a good residence hall rector should be."  
Daniel Walsh  like these administrators to reconsider their  Frankly, I am hurt, confused and upset. What  
DearEditor:  ResidentAssistant  decision.  qualities must a good rector possess? Must a  
In the summet of 1984, l received a card  CarrollHall  Father Steve wants to stay. I want him to  good  rector  be  a  disciplinarian?  Be  aut­ 
informing  me  that my  two first choices of  stay. The hall wants him to stay. And many  horitarian?Be hated? Father Steve has made  
residence halls were filled, and that I was to be  DearEditor:  people across the lake from us want him to  my Mass a true worship and my transition into  
a resident of Carroll Hall. After consulting a  Father Steve Gibson has "resigned" his posi­ stay. Please, rethink this decision in light of  the Notre Dame community a smooth one. In  
campus map,! could see no redeeming quality  tion as rector ofCarroll Hall because, I under­ such support. A new decision would be well­ short, I consider him someone to whom I can  
in the hall. Why wouldanyone want to live on  stand, that he does not fit the image of what a  received and well-respected.  talk and with whom I can truly feel com­ 
the other side of the lake anyway?  hall rector should be.  Stephen Kern  fortable. Surely this atmosphere is more con­ 
However. after one year as a resident ofCar­ Perhaps there has been a mistake. Father  President  ducive to the growth and development of  
roll Hall, I came tr. the conclusion that the  Gibson carefully administers his duties as rec­ CarrollHall  responsible, mature adults than the air of dis­ 
benefits due to the warm, friendly atmosphere  tor. He participates in the life of the hall. He  .trust and animosity set up by a disciplinarian.  
of  this  hall  outweighed  the  nuisance  of  does his job well and then he does more be­ DearEditor:  I believe the administration is making  a  
walking  that  extra  distance from  place  to  cause he is a man with an ideal.He treats every  As  someone  who  has  had  the  special  grave mistake in removing Father Steve, and I  
place.  person with dignity, respect and humility be­ privilege to know Father Steve Gibson, rector  urge  them  to  reconsider their  decision.  I  
As a result. I did not exercise my option,  cause  they  are human beings despite what  of Carroll Hall, I would just like to share with  know that others agree with me.  
when it was open, to transfer out of Carroll  they apparently "deserve." The speech and ac­ those who have had not had this opportunity  DennisP. Hughes  
into another residence hall. Had I known then  tions ofthis man have born incredible witness  some of the qualities that make this man one  CarrollHall  
what  I  know  now,  my  decision  would  to his character,  more than any newspaper  of Notre Dame's finest rectors.  
probably have been different.  eulogy  can  do.  The  mature  responsive  at­ Father Steve is an incredibly generous man  DearEditor:  
It seems that the administration of this fine  titude of the residents at Carroll also bears  constantly giving his time and effort to help  The residents of Carroll Hall  want very  
institution of higher education has seen fit to  witness to his effectiveness as rector. He is a  the  residents  of Carroll  Hall.  He  has  es­ much to keep Father Steve as rector; Father  
request and/or effect the resignation ofFather  sincere man of integrity and compassion. At  tablished a spirit of family community within  Steve wants very much to stay. It is, or should  
Steve Gibson as rector of Carroll Hall, on the  this point, I can only wonder why this removal  the hall making for a very warm and open  be, beyond doubt that Father Steve has the  
grounds that he does not live up to the the  is taking place.  atmosphere. In addition, through this spirit he  perfect credentials to be rector. Why then is  
expectations ofa residence hall rector.  I am sure that there are many considera­ has created a tradition of mutual respect bet­ he being removed?  
My first reaction to this news was disbelief.  tions surrounding this issue. I have great con­ ween himself and the residents of the dorm.  LarryAndrea  
This was soon followed by anger, and finally  fidence in the integrity of the administration  He has gained this respect through the great  Carroll Hall  
--o_.Ihe Observer- Editorial Board  Department Managers  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  (219) 239-5303  
Ed:tor-tn·Chtef  Sarah E Hamilton  Busrness Manager.  Dav1d Stephenrtch  
The Observer IS the lndepenLient newpaper published by the students of the Un1vers1ty of Notre Dan·~ duLac and Sarnt Mary·s College. It does not necessarily reflect the policres of ttre .Jdnnn1strat1on of e1the: 1nstrtution. The news IS reported as accurately and as .1bjeCt1vely as poSSible. Uns1gned ed1torrals represent the op1n1on of a maJOflty of the Edrtorral Board. Commen!afleS. letters and the 1ns1de Column  Managtng Edttor News Edt tor News Edrtor Satnt Mary's Executrve fdrtor Sports Edrtor Accent Edrtor  Amy Stephan Kr,rth Harrrson Jr Dan McCullough Theresa Guarrno Jelt Bklmb Mary Healy  Advertrsrng Manager Controller Systems Manager Productron Manager  Anne Cullrgan Brll Hrghducheck MarK B Johnsor, John A Mennell  
present the v1ews of the1r authors Column space IS ava1lable to all members of ttre  Vtewpo:nt Ed• tor  Joe Murphy  
commun1ty and the free express1on of vary1ng op1n1ons on campus. through letters. IS encouraged  Photoyraphy Edt tor Copy Chref  Peter C Laches Frank Lrpo  Founded November 3, 1966  

~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Monday, April 29, 1985 -page 8 
r 
r 
,r 
, 
r 
~ 



\ 






need we 
say more? 
r 
r 
Th~ Obsc'rv~r /Bob Vonderheide 
,r 
t 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
~ 
r r 
'lln· ()h~t·rn•r/lbnnt·~ Hac.:kc:r

Th<" ()h~erver/Pett· bH.:hc~ 
~ 





The: Oh:..ervt'r/PauJ Pahorc!!k}' 


~
, 
, ~ 
, ~ 
,
, 
~ 
, ~ 
,
, 
, ~
, 
,
,
, 
,r 
,
,
,
,
,
,
, 
, 
,
,' 
, 
, ~ 
,
,
,
,
,
,
,
,
,
,
,
, 
~ 




Accent 
Monday, April 29, 1985-page 10 


A know-it-all in trivialia?-see how you ·did! 
27. 2.2 feet · Hazleton, Pa. I 0. lhe Blue Man de 
at Saint Mary's? How many I 0. 1879: 300 laborers, working 2H. The Observer 4'i. 'Jbe Department of Energy II. 19'i8 pieces is the Touchdown jesus 16-hour days, completed it in four 46. Laboratories of Bacteriology 12. A convent for postucates 
S
o, how deep really is the lake 9.End 
29. True-during WWII, when
mosaic made of? And who really months at the University of Notre Dame 13. 1962 
ND.was heavily involved in training 
14. The 1919 scasonis the trivia mastermind at Notre II. ND vs. Army, 1928 47. 1977 

Navy officers 
48. Engineering.30. St. joseph's 1'i. ChimesDame~ 12. The gold cross on the steeple 
49. It is one of the first geodesic Well, the answer to that last 31. Old College 16. Saint Mary's Academy
at Sacred Heart Church, 230 feet 
structures built in the United States question is Tim Neely, who wins 13. Southold 32. Dr. josephine Ma.~syngherde 17. Septcmher 2 and 3, 1982 
'iO. Brownson Hall S20 and the Notre Dame/Saint 14. "'Inc Word ofLife" Ford 18. Wolff 
'i I. Five Mary's trivia contest for getting 62 15. True .33. Richard Nixon 19. May 1927 out of HO answe~s. Answers to the 16.20,000 34. Rev. Stephen T. Badin (died 20. The city in France where rest are below. (For the questions, 17. 3.1 18'i3), the first priest ordained in Saint Mary's trivia Holy Cross Sisters are stationed see the April 18 issue of'Ibc Obser­18. 1919 the llnited States 21. Mother Pauline ver.) 19. Vetville 35. Over I. 'i million I. 1844 22.1972·73 
20. WNDll Television, Channel 36. Cartier Field 2. 1180, with a 115 entrance fee 23. Gloves and a hatNotre Dame trivia 46 37.7,000 3. Holy Cross Hall 24. 1962 
I. s16'i 21. 40 percent 38. "Knute Rockne, All-4. "Who is like unto God" 2'i. 19t'b 
2. Martin 22.Joe Montana American" 'i. "An Apology for Youth" 26. 'Ihe Statue .3. Columbus 23. Notre Dame teams hefore 39.5,714 6. McCandless Hall 27. It was redone and 
4. Strcp throat they were called "lhe Fighting 40. 1972 7. A letter of permission from hcr teconstructcd 'i. Five Irish" 4 I. David Link parcnts, and a letter ofinvitation 28. It was called hy Notre Dame 
6. 
Fr. julius Nieuwland 24. St. Michael's 42. Three from the host students "Chip off the Rock" in 

7. 
Franklin D. Roosevelt 2'i. 'i9,07'i 43. Fr. Edward Sorin 8. Next 10 the Church of Loretta 1948 


H. 206 feet 26. Timothy O'Meara, Ph.D. 44. St. Gabrield's Higo School in 9. Novcmher 12, 1887 29. It was the library 
Was there any doubt? 
Sherry Green 
features staff writer 
T
he !1nalists of the MTV "Milli.ons forMS" 
Rm:k-Alike contest gave it their all 
Saturday night at the ACC. While Vanity was 
tempting, Billy Idol rehdling, and Cyndi had 
fun, Bruce Springsteen was still "the Boss." 
lluey Lewis opened the concert with "IIcari of Rock 'n' Roll," which simply had no heart in it. Perhaps it was the threat of na­tional television, hut whatever the trouble was, Huey couldn't cut it with the Notre Dame audience. 
'lhe people wanted a spectacle, hut that was long in coming as they had to endure a punchy hut repetitious Billy Idol, and a flaccid "Bruce" from Michigan State. The outcome of the contest seemed predett·rmined; that is, it did until Vanity appt·ared on stage. 
Vanity wa.' a nasty girl, all right-and the audit-nee approved -at least, tht· men did; most of the women stood aghast a.~ they watched her tempt and tea.'e the crowd. At any rate, the audience was roused (or per­hap~anmsed) after her "stimulating" perfor­mance. Shock factor is a wondt:rful thing. 
But that wa~ washed over as Mickjagger pounced onto the stage, singing "Shattered" and thrilling the nowd with his jumps, scrcams, and spa.,tic dancing. Jagger's talent and enagy left tht· audicnce scrcaming for more. 
This momentum died down quickly, however, with Tina Turner and her unevent­ful rendition of"What's Love Got to do With lt1," and all hut vanished during Cyndi L;mper's "Girls_lust Want to Have Fun." 
Madonna and Prince were well received hy the crowd, who had gro\"n tired of seeing people rip their clothes or stroll ahout the stagc. From a distance, both danced and lip-synced well enough to be taken for the real thing. In this contest, looks counted as much as presence, and no one could win who didn't have both. 
The contest was getting long, and the audience restless, as they patiently watched still another Billy Idol rip his shirt and pound his fist in the air. One student remarked, "Is this thing ever going to end?" 
But then, the last contestant appeared on stage, needing no introduction, and everyone was on their feet. Clapping, waving American flags, and dancing joyously, the crowd knew who was number one-Notre Dame's own Bruce Springsteen, Kevin Herbert. Vanity's "Nasty Girl" and the Rolling Stones' "Shattered" could not compete with Springsteen's "Born in the li.S.A." 
Herbert was presented with a trophy and rose hy Nina Blackwood, one of the VJs on !\1TV; he then thanked his fans, who were still cheering his vktory. 
"The campus was hehind me I I 0 percent, and I couldn't have done it without their support. Notre Dame is the best school on (iod's green earth1" 
The Boss has spoken' 
The Ob.'ierver/Pete l.achc.1. 

Tommy Shaw hits a high note during his perjormancP S(fturday night a/the A CC. 


Shaw shines on own 
Marc A. Antonetti 

features staffwriter 
T
ommy Shaw is not Bruce Springsteen. 
Tommy Shaw is not Madonna. 
Tommy Shaw is not Cyndi Laupcr. 
Tommy Shaw is not "Tommy Shaw, lead guitarist for Styx." Tommy Shaw is Tommy Shaw, lc.:ad singer of the Tommy Shaw Band. 
Saturday night at the ACC, the MT\' "Millions t<>r MS" contest awardcd its highest contrihutcrs, Notre.: Dame.: and Saint Mary's. with the promised free: concert. After the.: prescntation ofa huge trophy to the winning schools and the Rock-Alike contest, the concert hegan with hillowing smoke. 
The tlrst song, "Come In and Explain," showed that Shaw has more to offer than such dance songs as Girls With Guns." The second song, Styx's "Blue Collar Man." pleased the crowd-in part because ofits familiarity. 
The audience wa.~ only as a Notre Dame/Saint Mary's crowd could be -loud and enthusiatic. They began doing a numher ofcheerleading routines early on in thc show; their fun culminated in "the wave." 
The excitement was lost on Shaw's next song, "Free: to Love You." '!he song itself was excellent, hut its lack offamiliarity prompted some disenchantment. "IfYou Could Only Sec Me.: Now," a new song to bc relea.~ed on Shaw's next alhum, hrought the crowd's interest hack. The song, a ballad, contained a typical Shaw punch. 
"Kiss Me Hello," unfortunately, sent some people home. The song itsc.:lfwasn't had, hut instcad was plagued hy the lack ofaudience recognition. 
'!hose who left missed out, a.o; the concer•. went from that of an "up and coming" performer to one ofa tlrst-rate artist. Another new song, "This Is Not A Test," was the song. The so~ immedi:•tdy revived the 

audience, an~ many hcgan to dance in front 
of the stage. 
Following '1The Naturt· of"lllc Bcast," Shaw continued wi~h tht· pcrennial favorite "Too Much Time: on My lland~." IIis last song was the title.: track! from his alhum, "Girls With (iuns." 
Thc hand l~ft brielly, then rcturned for an encore.:. Clotllcd in Notre.: Dame jerseys, they continued w~th another nt·w song, "Jcalousy." S~aw has high hopes f<>r this song's popul:llrity, and with good reason, as "Jealousy" is~quick, crisp, and cutting. Shaw finished his oncert with the traditional favorite.: "Ret egade." from Styx's Picccs of Eight. I 
Notre.: Datile was the.: last stop on Shaw's tour, which js promoting his nt·xt alhum, duc out in Septe~lhtT. As for Styx. Shaw said that it wa.~ unlikc.jly he would continue.: with the group. The traditional "artistic differences" secms to he underlying the.: unofficial hrcakup. It v•as rumored that some.: die-hard Styx fans sa~ James Young, guitarist and vocalist for $tyx, at the conccrt, hut this wa.' not substantiated. 
As it is, T~>mmy Shaw sn·ms quite.: capahk of holding ~is own with or without his old group. His !),and was terrific. Rich Cannata, on the saxaph1~nc, was a rcal crowd plca.~cr. Michael Bhlir, Steve Holly, and Brian Stanley all turned ill stcllar performances. Most important!f. Tommy Shaw dctkd the skq,­tics, and pl~yed exccptionally well. His new songs, fast-paccd and sharp, show great promise. 
lndecd, ~otre Dame: didn't get one of today's "top five" touring groups; howevcr, thcy did gdt to look through the provcrhial "crystal ba~" at one.: of tomorrow's top stars. 
As for N Jtrc Dame and the.: MS fund-raising drive.:-Sha. ·said after thc concert, "Notre Dame kick;.-; a--!" 

-
Th<' Ohserr•a :'1/otrl' Dame office. i<Katnl on tht· third floor of Lafortune StU<knl <:entl'r. accepts classified adH·rtising from<) am. until -t p m .. :1-londa,· through l·rida\ lht• Ohsert•er Saint Mary's officl'. locatl'd on the third floor of Haggar College Center. accepts classifil'ds from 12:~0 p.m. until -~ p m .. Mon­day though Friday l>l'adlint' fur nt·xt-daY classifieds is :1 p.m. All cla;sifil'ds 
must ht· prl'paid. t•ithl'r in person or h' mail. Charg<: is I 0 n·nts pt:r fi\'l' charac­ters t'r da\'. 




Classifieds 
NOTICES 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8997 
WORDPROCESSING-277-6045. 
Wordproceaeing and Typing 272-8827 
Word Processmg and Typmg Resumes. Letters. Papers. Documents Call 234­2380 
PRO-lYPE Over 14 yrs. expenence typ1ng student papers. resumes. and dis­sertations 277-5833. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER. 233-7009. 
GOVERNMENT HOME from $1 (U repair). Alao delinquent tax property. Call 805-687-6000 Ext. GH-9834 for In­formation. 
Be Smart" Sell your texts and paperbacks tor$$ belore the rush" M-F,B/T 12-4 pm. We also carry a w1de assortment of Chtf and Monarch Notes. Pandoras Books.937 So.Bend Ave.. 1 block lrom Corbys 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST ONE NO DEEP BLUE JACKET IN NORTH DINING HALL. PLEASE RETURN TO 715 FLANNER. NO ?'S ASKED. 
LOST GOLD BRACELET WITH GOLD TEDDY BEAR CHARM SENTIMENTAL VALUE. PLEASE CALL 232-4552 OR 277-67421F FOUND. 
LOST GOLD CHAIN.CRUCIFIXANO CIRCULAR JESUS MEDAL INSCRIBED. CALL 277-6742 OR 232-45521F FOUND. 
Lost:blue NO bookbag.Phys1cs and Mec­hamcs book, 4 notebooks and 4 folders. and calculator. If found please call1804 
$20 REWARD FOR THE RECOVERY OF A GYM BAG FILLED WITH VIDEOTAPES. PLEASE CALL DAN AT 1733, DROP OFF AT 243 DILLON, OR AT THE O'SHAG LOFT. 
LOST: ONE EDDIE BAUER JAC-SAC. BURGUNDY COLOR. LOST ON 4/24 AT EITHER WASHINGTON HALL OR 116 O'SHAG. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL CLIFFORD AT 1436. THANK YOU' 
LOST. AN ARMY STYLE JACKET, OF VERY SENTIMENTAL VALUE. IF FOUND, PLEASE PLEASE. PLEASE CALL CATH AT 284-4173. THANKS. 
LOST-gold nng wilh blue stone 1n South D1n1ng Hall on Tues. 4/23. If you found it, Please call L1z 1992. Thanks 
LOST TWO WEEKS AGO FRIDAY AT STEPAN CENTER DURING THE JAZZ FEST-A BRACELET WITH A SILVER SETTING. IF FOUND. CALL LINDA AT 4215 
LOST: 2 SETS OF KEYS WITH 1.0. SON THEM. LOST IN MADALEVA BATHROOM ON 4/23. BELONG TO .MICHELLE COLEMAN AND ROSIE 
DEPASQUALE. CALL 4339 OR 4403 
WANTED 
I NEED GRAD. TIX! Please call Lisa at 3544. 
HELP!! NEED 1 OR 2 GRAD TIX. TOGETHER OR SEPARATE. PLEASE CALL MARYA AT 1276 OR 1296: KEEP TRYING!' 
RIDE NEEDED TO THE PITTSBURGH AREA ON MAY 2 or 3. CALL JIM AT 1930. 
Need Tickets For Graduation Please Call Mel at 283·3716 
ONE-BDRM. SUMMER SUBLET NEEDED CALL 313-764-8979 AFTER 6 P.M. 
NEED AIDE to NJ alter 5/13.Liz 1992 
USED BIKE. Why keep hauling 11 around 1f you never use 1t? 239-6426 Ask for Flavto. 
'84 NO grad needs ROOMMATE lor 2 bdrm apt 1n B~rmmgham. MI. Call 272­861711 relocat1ng m Detro1t area 
!.......__--F_OR_S_AL_E___JI 
-· 
6-UNIT APARTMENT FOR SALE. NO­MEMORIAL AREA. EXCELLENT CON­DITION 233-9728 232-4528 
Be smart' Sell your class books before lhe rush. Mon.-Frl between 12 and 4. Save$ on paperbacks. Fri: 3-6: 50/ off used: 20/ off new. PANDORA S BOOKS. 937 So Bend Ave. 233-2342 
AIRLINE TICKET From South Bend through Chicago and Dallas to Amarillo, Texas. Scheduled to leave South Bend Monday. May 13. at 10 am. Must leave at this time. W1ll take best offer. Call1710. 
LOFT.VERY STURDY CALL 2846 
Selling 2 round-trip tickets Chic­Luxembourg. leavmg June 18. If m­terested call 288-3595. 
FOR SALE: CEDAR-LINED STEAMER 
TRUNK, 6 1/2 X 2 X 1 1/2 CALL ADELE. 3144. 
TICKETS 
HELPII NEED 1 OR 2 GRAD TIX. TOGETHER OR SEPARATE. PLEASE CALL MARYA AT 1276 OR 1296: KEEP TRYING!' 
Need 3 Grad t1x Will pay$ 1346 
NEED 1 GRAD TICKET. CALL 1847 
L..__________, 
__PERSONALS 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE FOR BLESS­INGS RECEIVED 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
HELP!! NEED 1 OR 2 TIX, TOGETHER OR SEPARATE. PLEASE CALL MARYA AT 1276 OR 1296; KEEP TRYING!! 
RETAIL FURNITURE SALES Part t1me. llexible hours. lmmed. opemngs, call Chns Pedev111a 259-0007 10-8PM The Furniture Gallery. M1sha. 
Hey, I'd rather go to the Dunes v.lh you guys than with anybody. Thanks lor a first 1"11 never forget, With weather and hamburgers (the best in the world) to match! 
Estudiantes de Espanol: Isabelle S1guenza would like to treat any of her old students to a home cooked meal .. Interested? Call Glenn at 272­1869 
Yep I need a fix, and you·ve gotthe stuff. I heard 1t blanng from somewhere 1r1 PW on Easter Sunday. Call me when I can come over and dance. Thats what I like about you. Mike 239-6426 

Happy Birthday to Shannon "THE HOOVER' McNamara ... Hope your 21'st IS MAH-VELOUS-God knows you won't remember it. so have a ball. Stay away from the men of 6-D Grace or you may end up bald and very BLUEII' Don't go chang1ng. Love always. Fernando Lamas 
HELP'! I AM IN DIRE NEED OF ONE MORE GRADUATION TICKET!!! PARENTS WILL KILL ME IF I DON'T COME THROUGH WITH THIS DEALII PLEASE HELP OUT A POOR FELLOW SENIOR, AND CALL JEFF AT 3859 
FCE 
FCE 
FCE 
FCE 

RETURN YOUR FCE TODAY!I! (TO HALL PRES. THANKS'!) 
MATTHEW STAMM TO A GENTLEMAN WHO MEANS MORE TO ME THAN WORDS CAN TELL. YOU ARE MY LOVE. YOU ARE MY WORLD AND EVERYTHING IN IT REVOLVES AROUND YOU. ILOVEYOU ILOVEYOU ILOVEYOU ILOVEYOU ILOVEYOU YOUR DEVOTED "WIFE' JAMINA 
HIJOEC.1 
REMEMBER. THE PEOPLE YOU MEET ON YOUR WAY UP ARE THE SAME ONES YOU MEET ON YOUR WAY DOWN. 
Sports Briefs 
The Senior 5K Run will he held tomorrow at 3:3o 
p.m. at Stepan Center. Runners should meet at 3 p.m. For more in­formation, call Vince Thomas at 283-1769 or Jane Dowd at 283­1349. -The Obsen•er 
Ascramble golftournamentwill be. hosted by 
NVAon Saturday. Students, faculty and staff may register hy paying a S 3 greens fee at the NVA office by tomorrow. Prizes will be awarded. For more information, call NVA at 239-6100. -The Obsen'er 
Best of Bookstore ... 
Mike..· Crowley 
Pat Collin~<~ Pete Vrdolyak Hill Ml·Grath 
M•chael Muh..lnwney 
Ken ~c..-huermann 
!'lte\'e Ta'-·kach 
Oa\'t: Ta1clet Steve Nkgor!ooki ~.ark Trautman 
john Stein Mike Conlin Tom Arndorft:r 
F.rikjanowsky 
Ric.:k Muench 
Brian Behmer 
Marty Ruddf 
(~re~~o Din~en!> 
Miltjack._o,on Joe Uoward Tim Bruwn 
Keith Sawayda Weethy's Warriors 
MOST VALUABLE PLAYER 
Steve Treacy  Revenge of the Fun Bunch  
Jim Eraci  IRON MAN AWARD The Creamers  
Bill Muller  HOOSIER AWARD Ken Kesey and Merry Pranksters  the  

GOLDEN HATCHET AWARD 
Brian Behmer Rousseau's Noble Savages 
ALL-STAR GAME MVP 
Ken Schuermann Ed Smierciak and Four Other Guys Better Than John Paxson 
ALL-BOOKSTORE First Team 
WBBS Goe!>o Off the Air Revenge of the Fun Bum:h La.,t Minute Entry WBBS Goe~ Off the Air Rou~!'.eau's Noble Savage!> 
Second Team 
Ed Smierciak and Four Other Guy.o. Jimmy G. and the Spots Armed and Dangerou.o. Ill l.et'!-> Gn Crazy 
l.o.o. Malandro~ 
Third Team 
Red Baron~ 
Tequila White lightning 
Rou~seau's Noble Savage~ Mr. Coffey and the Non·Dairy Creamer~ LJangling Manhood 
ALL-FAUST TEAM 
Rou!'o!'oeau'!o Noble Savage!'> 
Rec.l Barons Revenge of the Fun Bunl·h Mr. Coffey and the Non-Dairy Creamer!'> 
Dangling Manhood . 
Danglin~ Manhood 
MR. BOOKSTORE 
Monday, April 29, 1985 -page 11 
The Fun Bunch gets its revenge 


-------.Revenge of the 412" BK 88:15 Fun Bunch, 21-11 
"126 BK&
Rhythm Method 
8:15 Revenge of the 
Fun Bunch, 21-16 Tequila White Lightning 4127 
------.JimmyG. & ST1 412" BK 10 8:15 the Spots, 21-19 8:00 
Jimmy G.& Revenge of the the Spots Fun Bunch, 21-18 
Rousseau's Noble  
WBBSGoes Off the Air ------.WBBSGoes  Savages, 21-17  Weethy's Warriors Weethy's  
412" LY 118;15  Off the Air, 21-12  Warriors, 21-15  
1st Source  
Showtime  -'126 BK 9  -'126 BK 10 Bank...Rousseau's Noble 5:00 ._______  
-----­5:00  WBBS Goes  
Off the Air, 21-19  Savages, 21-13  

"Fags & a Zahmbie 
-------"'1 Red Barons,
412" BK 10 5:00  21-14  
~--­ 
Red Barons  

Rout 
continuedfrom page 16 
Jefferson will mean for the tailback position in the fall. 
"With a healthy Pinkett and a healthy Jefferson," says Faust, "we'll be very strong in the tailback slot." 
One other area where Faust would like to be strong is the quar­terback spot. While starter Steve Beuerlein sat out the scrimmage nursing his shoulder, Notre Dame's two freshmen signal-callers got the chance to show their stuff. Terry Andrysiak (three completions -six attempts, 50 yards) showed con­siderable poise directing his Blue unit into the end zone, while Tom Byrne (five completions -13 at­tempts, I 0 I yards) did a good job despite facing constant pressure from the Blue defense. 
Both were hampered, however, in that the offense was not only too injury-depleted to hold back the agressive defense but still behind in the passing attack as well. The Irish coaches emphasized running forma­tions for the benefit of the defense through much of the spring. Al­though the final decision as to who will he Beuerlein's backup will not be made until the summer sessions, Faust was satisfied with both his young leaders. 
"I was very pleased with the play of Andrysiak and Byrne," noted Faust. "We knew the pass protection wouldn't be that good with all those top linemen out. But they played well. You like to see your quarter­back rushed. The quarterbacks that have problems are the ones that can't get out when they're flushed." 
At the fullback spot, another posi­tion ofinterest for the Irish coaches, both senior Tom Monahan and freshman Frank Starns played well. Monahan of the Blue was especially effective on short-yardage runs as he scored touchdowns from two yards out and one yard out on the way to 3I yards on I2 carries. Converted safety Jim Bobb made his only carry of the day count by scoring the final Blue touchdown from a yard out after linebacker Darrell Gordon of the Blue recovered a fumbled pitch (one of four White fumbles lost) at the White two-yard line. 
A pleasant surprise to Faust throughout the scrimmage was the play of the kicking game. Although the split-squad format meant that the rush against the kicker would he negligible, all players involved made good showings. Pat Chura, the 5-6 juriior placekicker for the Blue, was good on both of his extra-point at-
Revenge of the Fun Bunch, 21-16 
4128 ST1 
3:00 

-Dangling Manhood 
Dangling 
412" LV 12 8:15

Manhood, 21-16 -'126 BK 10 Let's Go Crazy Dangling 
8:15 
Manhood, 21-18 

4127 Tofu Vegetables I ST1 Ed Smierciak & 4 
412HY11 15:00 
5:00 Other..., 21-13 
Ed Smierciak & " Other Guys ... 

4 Dingleberries &a Kresgle

Rousseau's No-,_____.....,_ 
ble Savages, 21-8 Rousseau's Noble Savages 
tempts and on a 39-yard field goal try. Walk-on Ted Gradel, however, kicked the final two PAT's for the Blue. Hal Von Wyl of the White punted three times for a 38-yard average, and Dan Sorenson averaged 43 yards for the Blue. 
"The kickers did a good job," said Faust. "We didn't have a good rush on the punter because we didn't have enough guys when we split the teams. But I was very pleased." 
"If we stay healthy, we can be a senior-junior football team next . year," says Faust. "We could be two­deep at every position." 
Spring is for new hope, and Satur­day's season-ending scrimmage will mean at least that much for the Notre Dame football team. 
IRISH ITEMS-The winners ofthe annual Hering Awards for outstand­ing performances in spring drills were: Tim Scannell (offensive lineman), Reggie Ward (receiver), Jefferson (offensive back), Wally Kleine (defensive lineman), Fur­janie (Inside linebacker), Robert Banks (outside linebacker), Pat Ballage (defensive back), Mark An­tonietti (Most improved offensive player), Eric Dorsey (Most im­proved defensive player), Ray Carter (coaches' award), and Mike Seasly (coaches' award). _ 


The Observer 
Monday, April2?, 1985-page 12 

Ohio Wesleyan bullies past Irish, 16-4, with relentless goal pressure 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
Thc Notre Dame lacrosse team 
was able to pull off a surprisc last 
year and take the Midwest Lacrosse 
Association championship from 
perennial powers Denison and Ohio 
Wesleyan, hut there will he no 
repeat performance this year. The 
Bishops of Ohio Wesleyan made 
sure ofthat on Saturday by thrashing 
the Irish, 16-4, in front of a large 
crowd at Cartier Field. 
Although Notre Dame <.lid finish 
the weekend with an easy lfl-3 rout 
of Wittenberg yesterday, its loss to 
Wesleyan, following last weekend's 
loss to Denison, diminate<.l the Irish 
( ';-.2 in the MIA, 7 --: overall) trom 
tht· MIA title race. 
The Bishop~ showed why they are 
currently ranked No. 3 in the nation 
among Division Ill schools by con­
trolling their hosts nearly the entire 
game. The Notre Dame goal was un­
der almost constant pressure for the 
tina I 36 minutes of the game as Wes­
leyan turned a tight S-3 game into a 
blowout 
"We just let tht·m have the hall on 
their otlcnsive half of the field much 
too much," said Irish coach Rich 
O'Leary. "Ball comrol was the key. 
Even when we played well, they had 
the hall in our end most ofthe time." 
Probably the most talented team 
in tht• Midwest, Wesleyan was able 
to wear down the Notre Dame 
defense by making few mistakes on 
offl-nse and taking advantage of 
numerous errors by the Irish of­
ft·m;e, which took just 19 shots in the 
game ami turned the hall over many 
times on had passes. 
"I was really <.lisappoime<.l with the way our offense played," said O'Leary. "Our defense was on the field so much that they were ex­hausted. Htey really shouldn't have had more than 1.2 or 13 goals, hut our <.leknsemen were too tired to stop them by the end of thc game. 
Jlard work on the part of the Irish 
did keep them in the game for most 
of the firM half. The Bishops had 
threatened to blow the game open 
early by jumping ahead, 3-0, with 
goals by Steve Herrman, Bob 
Betcher and Rob Alvino. Bethcher 
and Alvino's goals both came with a 
Notre Dame player in the penalty 
box, and were the first of the Bis­
hops' five extra-man goals. 
Irish mi<.lfiel<.ler Joe Hart was able 10 get his team on the scoreboard, though, by scoring from the crease on a pass from Bob Trocchi. Trocchi himself had an opportunity 10 cut further into the Wesleyan lead before the cn<.l of the first quarter, hut he missed an open shot and Notre Dame had to settle for a 3-I first-quarter deficit. 
Trocchi's miss was significant in 

Bookstore 
continuedfrom page /6 
Bunch made .2 1-of-46 from the field. Rousseau's Noble Savages hit 16-of­
41. 
Collins dished off nine assists and 
made two steals for the Bunch, and 
Sowar helped Rousseau's with five 
assists. 
"Inc Fun Bunch leu at halftime, l I­
H. "Ilte biggest lead of the game was five, when Treacy put in a fasthreak layup to t·n<.lthe game. 
'Jlte Fun Bunch made it to the final game of Bookstore XIV by heating Jimmy G. and the Spots, .21-16, in Friday's quarterfinals and WBBS Goes <>ff the Air, .2 1-l H, in the semis on Saturday. Rousseau's beat Weethy's Warriors, .21-13, on Friday and Dangling Manhood, .21-17, on Saturday. 
In the Bookstore XIV All-Star Game yesterday before the final, The South Quad heat the North Quad, .21· 19. Ken Schuermann led the South with 9-of-1 S, and Marty Roddy hit 9-of-17 for the North. 
that it was the only real scoring op­
portunity of the <.lay for the school 
career scoring leader. For the rest of 
the game, the Bishops kept him 
blanketed while his younger, less­
talented teammates had problems 
with the Wesleyan dt:fensemen. 
Despite their problems, though, 
the Irish were able to play the Bis­
hops tough for a good part of the 
second quarter. After Wesleyan in­
creased its lead to 4-1, Bob Carillo 
won the ensuing faceoff and passed 
10 John McLachlan on a break. 
McLachlan scored to cut the lead to 
two once again. 
After Alvino scored his second 
goal of the game to put the Bishops 
hack up by three, defensemanjustin 
Shay grabbed a pass just across mi<.l­
lield, ran uncontested down the 
field, and scored to cut the lead to 
S-3 with 6:.2S remaining in the half. 
'lltat was as close as Notre Dame got, though, as the Wesleyan pressure began to show its effect on the Irish defense and freshman goalie Matt McQuillan. The Bishops scored four unanswered goals in the last six minutes of the half-most of them the result of poor plays by a tired defense. 
'Ilte IS minutes of rest <.luring halftime were deserved by the Notre Dame defense. hut it was not long before the Wesleyan attack began again. joe Franklin was able to bring the Irish hack to within five with just 1--i seconds elapsed in the third quarter, but whatever remained of the wcak Notre Dame offense disap­peared for the rest of the game. 
"llte Bbhops, using most of their 
.. 
w 
The Student Activities Board "The Leader in Entertainment" 
presents 
SHADOW FAX 
The Cutting Edge ofJazz 
Tuesday, April30 7 pm at Washington Hall 

Tickets on sale at the Record Store and at the door. Student Activities Board 
All tickets $8.50 
first-string players until the end of 
the game, quickly answered 
Franklin's goal with one of their 
own, and added six more to round 
out the scoring. 
Despite the loss, O'Leary was not 
completely upset. 
"Knowing how good Denison and 
Ohio Wesleyan are," he said, "it's no 
small thing to finish third in the con­
ference. 
"Winning last year may have been 
a hit premature in our development. 
I think we were better last year, and I 
think we also caught Denison and 
Ohio Wesleyan when they were in a 
down year. It's going to he tough to 
beat them if they stay this good. 
We're going to need some good 
recruits." 
While the Irish may still be behind the big powers, though, Wittenberg, yesterday's opponent is even further behind. O'Leary cleared the bench against the Tigers, who trailed by four at the end ofthe first quarter, by I 0 at the half, and by I'i at the end of three quarters. 
Uart led the Irish attack with three goals in his final home game, while fellow seniors Trocchi (two goals, one assist), Kevin Rooney (one as­sist), and Shay (one goal) also figured in on the scoring. Senior goalie Rob Simpson stopped five Wittenberg shots. 
IRISH ITEMS -The Irish will close out their season with a pair of road games this week. On Wednes­<.lay, the team will travel to Columbus to take on Ohio State. The season finale will he this Saturday at Michigan State. 
., 

Notre Dam~ Avenue Apartm~nts 
NOWRENTINGltOB FALL 
Completely furnished, balcronies,laundry, and off-street patking. On site management & p.alntenence, all deluxe fea ..res 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL $UMMER RATES 
(good deals for Summe~ Session) 
Office at 820 ND Ave 
or call
open Mon-fri 3-6pm 
234-6647
Sat 11-3pm 





Granger Tap and Grill 
32 oz. Sirloin for two :· $15.95 Prime Rib . . . . . . . . . 9.75 12 oz. Lobster Tail ... . Market Price 
I 

Come have breakfast, lunctj, or dinner cocktails and sandwiches anytime! Watch the game on our 60" TV screen. 
Mon.-Sat. 6am-11pm: Sun. 8am-9pm 12797 St. Road 23 277-6812 



*Please bring your J.D. card 
~~...,__'--..-.;;..<;;.,."-$-'-~~~"-:«:c:.>'~~~:<--~'-:<--::-~~~~:-:~ 
RASTAWEEK 
is here 
-with  lecture  on  the  Ethiopian  
Crisis  at  Haggar!  Center,  SMC,  
Monday Night  

-with movies at Ch~taqua, Tuesday Night -with pizza from Dominos, Thursday Night -with OC PARTIES, Friday Night -with a BENEFIT CONCERT at Stepan, Saturday Night -with a MASS for Ethiopia, Sunday 
Watch/or tiJese events 
THE EARLY.~BIRD... __-~  
Classes starting May 11 , 1985  
LSAT 1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-4135  

The Observer Monday, April29, 1985-page 13 
Attention Off-Campus Seniors: 
Nominations being taken for Sr. Fellowship A ward 
Today and Tomorrow llam-lpm at OBUD desk, LaFortune lobby 
Learn the facts about cancer. 
And make not knowing the risks, one less risk. 

How you live may save your life. 



ON THE MOVE TO INDIANAPOLIS 
The "Apartment Guide of Greater IndianapoDs", published by the Apartment Association of Indiana, isthe OFFICIAL source of information for choosing the apartment that's 
JUST RIGHT FOR YOU. 
Information on rental ranges, security deposits, features and recreational facillities are all easUy indexed for your convenience. And detaUed maps show the exact location of over 85,000 apartments. 
LET OUR GUIDE BE YOUR GUIDE 
WhUe in Indianapolis, pickup your c:opy at the nearest newsstand for only $2.00•••orcontact:;,.....--~""!"!"-1 
The Apartment Assodatlon ofIndiana 1811 Executive Drive, Suite R Indianapolis, IN 46241 (317) 241-9080 
t\.partment Guidt I 
of Greater Indianapolis 
'85-'86 
0 



SCHOLASTIC 
1985 1986 
WRITERS INFORMATION NIGHT WEDNESDAY, MAY 1, 7 o'cLOCK LAFORTUNE LITTLE THEATRE 

Saint Mary's wins four in weekend invitational 
By KELLY ANNE KARSports Writers  PORTOLESE NATZ  and  
The  Saint  Mary's  softball  team  

boasts a sparkling 19-6 record after weekend victories over Butler (3-2, 4-3) on Friday, and Marquette ( 14­
9) and the Notre Dame Club ( 10-3) on Saturday at the Notre Dame In­vitational. 
Marquette, who also lost to Notre Dame 10-9 in the flrst game of the tourney, scored four quick runs against the Belles in the top of the flrst inning, on three hits, a walk, and two Saint Mary's errors. The Belles fought back, however, to score two .runs in the flrst, fl.ve in the second and four in the third. 
After three complete innings, the Belles held a slim two-run lead of 11­9, when freshman Betty Mihalik relieved winning pitcher Elaine Suess. Mihalik allowed one run in the inning. 
Junior Cathy Logsdon, who earned the save along with Mihalik, took over on the mound in the fl.fth and exhibited great control, holding her opponents scoreless in the flnal three innings. 
Saint Mary's then added three runs in the bottom of the sixth to insure the 14-9 win. 
Seniors Katy Boldt and Tracy Bowman, who rapped two singles apiece, led the Belles offensively. Shortstop Trish Nolan added a single, a triple, and two RBI's. 
In the second game of the day for both teams, the Belles led the Irish, 2-0, going into the top of the fl.fth. Singles by Mary Arn and Jane Wel­den, coupled with two Saint Mary's errors, helped the Irish to send three runners home for a 3-2 edge after four-and-a-half innings. 

The Belles quickly bounced back scoring four runs in both the flfth and sixth innings. 
Overall, Saint Mary's capitalized on fl.ve Notre Dame errors, six walks, four passed balls and two wild pitches for the 10-3 triumph. The Belles were also successful in fl.ve stolen-base attempts. 
The Belles also came out on top in both games of a thrilling double­header on Friday when they played host to the Bulldogs of Butler Uni­versity, an NCAA Division I team. 
In game one, Logsdon pitched a four-hitter, yielding one walk and striking out one batter, for her 1Oth win ofthe season. 
The Belles were down 1-0 in the bottom of the fourth inning, whrn Teresa McGinnis reached flrst after being hit by a pitch from Mary Rhoutsong, a graduate of South Bend's Adams High School. Nolan then fl.red one up the middle, bring­ing McGinnis home, and tying it up, 1-1. Nolan then stole third and was knocked in by a Logsdon single. 
Butler was able to get one run back in the top of the fifth, making it a tie ballgame. But the McGinnis­Nolan connection proved successful once again in the sixth as McGinnis reached fl.rst on a walk, and Nolan hammered a triple to deep center fleld, making the flnal score 3-2. 
The Belles also topped Butler in the second game, 4-3. Saint Mary's relied on some key hits from Kris Pantelleria and Mary Lynn Mulcahy to pick up a run in the second inning and two in the fifth. 
Saint Mary's will travel across town this afternoon to challenge Bethel College at 3 p.m. 

ALL YOU CAN EAT SPECIALS: 
I I I I I I

lor PlDa Lovenl lor Beef Lovenl 
EYERY MOII.Uru THURS. &SAT. II II 2 EVElY MONDAY MIGIIT 4II I 
All the ""Hond Carved Roost ...f.
AIID TUESDAY OlllltER 4Ill 

(our specialty) you ..ant plus Voget­
.::!4)'All the famous Hand-T osted Pizza 
able, laked Potato, Roll, and Solod Ill' 
you con eat pius an all you can eat 

SJ'' 
b.trovogar'IZO lor.
Salad Extro'Yagonza Bar, plus Bev­erage. 

1 1 1 lor Fish Lovers! 1 .lor Cldckea Loven!
I 

EYERY FRIDAY l.uAch II Ill 2, Dinnw 4ID 8 EYEIYSitUYltll 
All you can eat l-ed Fried All you con eot Country Fried P..-cn, o-p Fried Potatoes, Vege-Chicken, Ma.hed Poto-., V-­

SJ'' 'J"
table, Roll and $Glad Extrava-table, RoU and Salad Extrava­ganza Bar. ganza lor 
_Th__e_~----~---r------------------------------------------------------~M~o~n=d~ay~,~A~p~r~il29, 198S-pagel4 


Irish end 20-win season streak via weekend split 
By CHUCK FREEBY 
Sports Wrl ter 
When the season hegan, one of the first questions asked of Notre Dame men's tennis coach Tom Fal­lon was wht·ther his team could have its seventh consecutive 20-win spring. tlnfortunately, that question was answered in the negative this· weekend, as the Irish netters split four matches, eliminating any chance of reaching the coveted plateau. 
The weekend at the Courtney Tennis Center started badly, as Notre Dame dropped its sixth dual match in its last seven tries with a 6-3 loss to Northern Illinois on Friday. The Irish looked like they might come back strong, knocking off Bowling Green, 7-2, and Ohio tlniversity, 5-"f, on Saturday. However, tht· hopes were dashed on Sunday afternoon, when Michigan State ed~ed the Irish hy a 5-4 count. 
Fallon was obviously disap­pointed with losing a chance at 20 wins in the spring. but certainly has not allowed that to put a damper on the season. "Now we just have to shoot for as many as we can get," noted the veteran Irish coach, whose squad now stands at 14-1 0 for the spring. "We can still get 20 for the combined fall and spring (the Irish are l'7-13 overall), and so we have to go for that as our goal. We can do it if we play well." 
Playing well is something that the Irish have had a problem doing con­sistently this year, and the weekend was merely a microcosm of the prohlem. Freshman Dan Walsh won all four ofhis matches at third singles and the doubles tandem of Dave Obert and Tom Grier were un­beaten at the second doubles slot. 
l!nfortunatdy, after those two bright spots, the picture was dimmed with sporadic play, espe­cially in the doubles competition. 
"We knew at the beginning of the year we would have a problem at doubles, and it has been that way," stated Fallon. "We've just been on and off. We don't have the depth to experiment a lot and we're young, so we just have to stick with the people we have in there. We come so close, but we just couldn't get it together at times." 
A perfect example of that state­ment is yesterday's loss to Michigan State. The Irish dropped a trio of three-set decisions in singles play, but they were still tied, 3-3, entering doubles play. Obert and Grier wasted little time putting the Irish on top, 4-3, with a 6-4, 6-4 win over Fernando Belmar and Joe O'Brien. 
Gallo's squad earns playoff berth by taking three of four from Butler 
By KEVIN HERBERT 
.Sfwrts Writer 
Llrry Gallo's Fighting Irish hasd1all squad had a very productive weekend, winning three out of four from the Butkr Bulldog~ and. more importantly, clinching a spot in the :\-lidwestern City Con­fc:rt·nce playoff~. 
The weekend did not start off wdl, however. In the first game of the four game series, the Irish were 
ddeatnl  hy  the  Bulldogs by  the  
score of 3-2.  
Brad  Cross  was  the  hurler  for  

Notre Dame. He pitched a very good game for the Irish. but the offense could not provide the necessary ar­tillery for the win. 
"Brad was a hard luck pitcher. Our offense hit the hall hard, hut right at people," commented Gallo. 
In the second game, Notre Dame combined great pitching with a bet­ter than average offense to post a 5-I victory. 
The grt·at pitching was provided hy freshman Kevin Chenail as he went the distance while yielding but a single run. Forty percent of the of­fense wa~ provided by Mike Trudeau's two-run home run. The victory hoosted the Irish record to IH-23-2 going into yesterday's twin­bill. 
Programs at/rome 
0 Over 200 graduate and undergraduate courses 
0 Approaches to Teaching Writing 
0 English as a Foreign Language 
0 Government Internships 
0 High School Programs 0 Intercultural Training 
0 Interpretation and Translation Institute 
0 Language Courses 
0 Liberation Theology Conference 
0 Literary Criticism 
0 LSA/TESOL Institute 
0 Parish Workshop 
0 Sacred Scripture Institute 
Sessions ':t-\fay 20-June 14 First-June 10-July 12 ll-Week Cross Session-June 10-August2 6-Week Cross Session-June 24-August 2 Second-July 15-Auaust16 
In tht· first game of the double­header. Notre Dame trailed much of the distance but led when it counted, in the final tally. 
Butler scored once in the second 
and twice in the third to lead the 
Irish, 3-0, heading into the hottom of 
the third. Notre Dame, however, 
was able to rally in the bottom of the 
inning to take a 4-3 lead. 
That lead was lengthened in the fourth to 6-4 when yet another run was posted for the Irish. 
In the fifth, however, Butler once again rallied with three big runs to retake the lead 6-5. 
The seesaw battle continued when, in the sixth, Notre Dame battled back to tie the game at six. 
'lbe game was sent into the ninth tied at seven. In the bottom of that inning, Mike Trudeau led off with a triple. Senior Dave Clark then delivered the game-winning RBI when he drove in Trudeau for the H-'7 Irish victory. 
Offensively for Notre Dame, Jack ,\loran..\like Trudeau, Dave Clark, Rich \'anthournout and Mike Dor­ning each picked up an RBI in the winning cause. 
Joe Dobosh pitched the first four innings for the Irish, giving up seven hits, four walks and three runs in his innings ofwork. Buster Lopes hurled for five innings, yielding only four 
Pro!(rams abroad 
0 China-Chinese Culture 0 Dijon, France-French 0 Fiesole, Italy-Italian 0 Greece-Life and Thought 
in Ancient Greece 0 Leningrad, U.S.S.R.-Russian 0 Oxford, England-Business 
Administration 0 Quito, Ecuador-Spanish 0 Trier, West Germany-German 
Send more information: 
Call (202) 625-8106 or mail to: SSCE-Georgetown University 3061ntercultural Center Washington, D.C. 20057 
(,'lrftlon I ·,n~rsily is 1111 tqfllll (Jpportutry/af!irm~~tiu lllltOfl ittstitulton in tmplovmmt andaJmis.rtOn 
However, the Spartans answered with a win in the third doubles spot as Ron Smith and Curtis Wright downed Joe Nelligan and Paul Daggs, 6-4, 7-5. 
That left it up to the No. I duo of Mike Gibbons and Dan Walsh, who played well, but not well enough. After losing the first set to MSlJ's Paul Mesaros and Craig Solemski, 6­3, the Irish pair was staying close in the second set. Despite the fact they were serving to tie the set, Gibbons and Walsh just couldn't get the key points, losing the set, 7-5. 
Only 24 hours earlier, Gibbons and Walsh had been the heroes against Ohio. With the match tied at 4-4, Gibbons and Walsh had to battle to three sets, before saving the day with a 6-3, 0-6, 6-4 triumph over Scott Langs and Tim Bruin. 
That gave Notre Dame its second win of the day, as the Irish had little problem knocking off Bowling Green, -r.2. Saturday morning. The Irish p~ this one away early, win­ning fiv of the six singles matches. Freshm n Paul Daggs picked up the clinche with a three-set victory over K n Bruce at No. 6 singles. 
Satu ay's wins were a sharp con­trast to Friday's disappointing defeat at the nds ofNorthern Illinois. The usuall} docile Huskies have vastly impro ed this year, and they proved it to t e Irish quickly, winning four of the. ix singles matches. Obert and Grier ought valiantly to keep Irish hopes ive with a three-set win, but it pro ·ed to be to no avail as Nlll took t e other two doubles matches. 
'111 e i~> no rest for the Irish as they Ey every day ti>r the next four days. -e week's action starts this af­terno m as the Irish entertain the Horn ts of Kalamazoo College at 
3:00 p.m. "Don't be fooled by "-"·""~"·""·'·" warns Fallon. "They are tough, and they beat Mic-
State, 5-4, so we'll have our full." 

hits and one run. Lopes struck out seven in picking up the win. 
In the second part of yesterday's twinbill, Notre Dame clinched a playoff spot in the MCCwith an im­pressive 7-2 victory. 
Mark Watzke earned the victory, pitching ti>ur-and-one-third innings for the Irish. Watzke gave up only two hits and two runs during his tour of duty. He was rdieved by Steve Powell in the fifth. 
Powell pitched two-and-two­thirds. giving up no runs and only one hit. 
With the sweep yesterday, Notre Dame assured itself of a spot in the MCC playoffs. '111e Irish record is 20­23-2 overall, and 8-4 within the MCC. 
Notre Dame, coming off the 3-I weekend, will face the University of Illinois-Chicago tomorrow, in Chicago. 


You're a professional Nurse. You wprk in a modern hospital environment and have the 'opportunity for advanced training. You are also in an immediate super­visory position. 

You're a Navy officer. This includes travel and adven­ture. Your salary and benefits are comJParable to civilian nursing. but you have better benefits and greater prestige. 
REQUIREMENTS BSN degree, or a three-year diploma with one year related experience. 
SENC YOUR RESUME TO: 

Medical Programs Officer Navy Recruiting District 575 N. Pennsylvania St., Rm. 646 Indianapolis, IN 46204 
________________L______________ 



~c:tcJIC3L~----------------------------------------M_o_n_d_a.y,_A_p_n_·l_2_9,_1_9_8_5___P_ag-~-l--5
Bloom County 
MV GOOPNe5S 1 FOR. A MINIJTC I 71f()(J&HT I WAS 1lJM 5£l.C-eCK ANP
AAIIbH!! 
COVlPN'r F!&f/l?ff (}(ff fKJW I S</P~Nf..Y &oT\ SO IJI/RNe/1 fl6f.Y/ 
Zeto 


The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Identical 5 Consecrate 
10 Musial 14 Sports group 15 -S. McPherson 
16 Far: pref. 17 Cleveland's 
lake 18 Night noise 19 Biblical 
patriarch 20 Gopher State 22 Leases 23 Shoddy 24 Discourse to 
a class 26 Dry 28 Joyous 
inflicter of 
pain 30 Not well 33 Dinner course 35 Used at the 
table 37 Early cars 39 Liturgical 
vestment 41 Rayburn of TV 42 Lethargy 44 Building 4 Corrects 
extensions 5 Singing voice 46 Future chick 6 Floor covering 47 Jousted 7 Act the ham 49 Affirmative 8 Sharp ridges 
votes of glaciers 51 Kind of strike 9 Witness 53 Ibexes 10 Guiding 57-acid 11 Volunteer 59 Badger State State 61 Heat source 12 Thanks-! 62 Skin 13 Loch­
63-boy! 21 Potato buds 64 Anglo·Saxon 22 Discourteous 
slave 25 In a meek way 65 NY city 27 Made like a 66 Shipbuilding lion 
wood 29 Zest 67 Ger. river 30 Tax letters 68 Orgs. 31 Lithuanian 69 Br. composer 32 Pelican State 
34 Dessert 
DOWN 36 Table prop 1 Stops 38 Shatter 2 High nest 40 Member of a 3 PineTree tribe 
State 43 Ger. emperor 

Friday's Solution 
45 Utah state 55 Giant flower 56 Ophidian 48 Round rods 57 Mimics of wood 58 Flat-topped 50 Musical hill 
composition 60 Preserves food 52 Telegrams 62 Coroner's 54 Flower term: abbr. 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
Kevin Walsh 

Campus 
Economy With a Foreign Sector Bottleneck: An Economic Analysis of Policy Alternatives." Prof. Patricio Meller, Kellogg Institute & CIPLAN, Room 131 Decio. 
•::S 
p.m. -Tennis, NO Men vs. Kalamazoo, Courtney Courts. 

•4 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Geography of Seig­neurial Agriculture in Medieval England," Prof. Bruce Campbell, Queens University, Bel­fast, New Orleans Room, Lafortune. 

•6 
p.m. -Student Senate Meeting, Room 122 Hayes Healy. 

•7 
p.m.-Monday Night FUm Series, "The Trial," Annenberg Auditorium. 



TV Tonight 
6:30p.m. 16 M0 A0 S*H 22 Three's Company 28 Wheel ofFortune 
7:00p.m. 16 Movie-Adam 22 Scarecrow & Mrs. King 28 Hardcastle & McCormick 
8:00p.m. 22 Kate & Allie 28 Movie-Reds 8:30p.m. 22 Newhart 9:00p.m. 16 Missing: Have. You Seen This Person 

I • 
I 
How you live may save your life. 
10:00p.m. 
10:30p.m. 
ll:OOa.m. 
11:30a.m. 12:30a.m. 1:00a.m. 

Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Roast pork loin Turkey rice casserole Baked stuffed sole 
Saint Mary's Baked meatloaf Turkey divan Grecian pocket bread 
Baked cod  
22  Cagney & Lacey  
16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
16  Tonight Show  
22  Simon & Simon/McMillan  
28  ABC News Nightline  
28  Love Connection  
16  Late Night With David Letterman  
28  Social Security Crisis  
16  All in the Family  
22  Nightwatch  

IAMERICAN ~~CANCER fSOCIETY® 

., 
: 

Monday, April 2t, 1985-page 16


S~orts 
Fun Bunch gets its revenge, conquers Rousseau's 
By PHIL WOLF 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Tht· members of Revenge of the Fun Hunch were not kidding around when they named their entry for l\ookstore Basketball XIV. The Fun Bunch ~ainn.l revenlo(e for its semi· 
Bookstore 
XIV 
-..-::: 
tlnalloss in Bookstore XIII by taking this year·~ championship yesterday, 2 1-16, from Rousseau's Noble Savagt·s. 
Strong rebounding and good play by the guards at both ends of the court were the keys to vicrory for the Fun Bunch on Stepan I at ~:00. 
'l11e Savages won the toss and took the 11rst possession to start the game, and Michad Muldowney hit his first shot from deep on the left sidt· to give Rousseau's the first point of the contest. Greg Dingens answered for the Bu1Kh on his ll'am·s 11rst posses­sion. 
For awhile. then. it seemed as though Rousseau's had a slight edge. The Savages hdd a one-or two-point lead or at least a tk for the first six points of the game. During that time, Rousseau's gained points from its fast transition game and caused the Bunch to commit a couple of tur­novers. 
Steve Treacy put the Fun Bunch ahead for the tirst time at 7-6 with a 20-footer from the left side. After Jim Sowar tkd it for Rousseau's with a shot over 6-7 Tom Rehder, the Sav.tges took their last lead ofthe day at H-..., when Brian Behmer hit a mini­hook after receiving a pass inside from Sowar. 
Guard Pat Collins then hit from the top of the key and Greg Dingens canned a short one to put the Fun Bunch on top to stay, 9-H. 
The Fun Bunch was already in the bonus ( I 0 fouls on Rousseau's) at that point, and had yet to be called for a foul. The foul situation really did not make much ofa difference in tht· game, though, as the Fun Bunch missed all four of its chances from the gift line. Greg Dingens even misst·d ont: by a good three feet. 
Whether or not the players for the Fun Bunch were trying to even the game by forfeiting the foul shots they were awarded by the referees, they certainly were not willing to give up many rebounds. 'Ibe Bunch finished with a 26-I 9 advamage on the boards over the smaller Savages. Collins and Greg Dingens hauled in eight boards apiece. and Matt Din-gens grabbed six for the winners. Be­hmer was the rebound leader for the losers with eight. 
Once the team had control of the boards, the Fun Bunch gained con­t1dence and began to stop the fast­breaking Savages. Collins and Treacy took control in the backcourt, and the Fun Bunch gained the revenge it was looking for. 
"They have got great guards," Be.: hmer said afterward. "They're con­scious of the fast break.·· 
Muldowney then added his analysis to his teammate's. 
"I wouldn't say we had that many fast breaks early in the game," Mul­downey said, "but things were click­ing for us. But they (the Bunch) were awesome on the boards, and Treacy is one of the best guards around, with the exception of maybe (Tom) Arndorfer." 
Treacy banged in nine points, mostly from way outside, including an incredible fallaway jumper from 25 feet. He finished the day with a 9-of-l.f mark to lead all scorers. 
Greg Dingens redeemed his 0-of-2 shooting from the line by hitting 5­of-I 0 from the field for the winners, while Arndorfer's 5-of-9 and Be­hmer's 5-of-1 I led the Savages. 
As a team. Revenge of the Fun 
see BOOKSTORE, page 12 
D.U.I.'s edges Going All the Way, 21-19, to win women's tournament 
By MICHAEL FLANNERY 
.~ports Writer 
'Il1e prcs~ure of a final game can makt· athletes in any sport do strange thing~. Certain players react positively and their skills look shar­per than ever. Other players tighten up and their ~kills seem to slip down a notch. 
Throughout their careers, Laura Dougherty and Ruth Ann Kaiser have proven that they are of the former ilk. On Sunday, in the Women's Bookstore final, they proved it again. '!be two are close friends and have fought many battles together on the floor of the ACC as members of the Irish varsity. But on the hot blacktop of Stepan, each fought gamely against the other in a physically draining struggle for the Bookstore title. 
In the end, it was Kaiser's team, 'lbe D.li.I.'s, who prevailed by a scort· of 21-19. It was Dougherty, though, who would be rightfully n~met.l Miss Bookstore for almost single-hant.ledly bringing her team, Going All '!be Way, to the brink of victory. 
Dougl1erty scored 1 5 of her team's 19 points, including the last nine in a row. After hitting a jumper to put Going All '!be Way up. 11-10, at the half, Dougherty canned eight points on a variety of jumpers, layups, and foul shots. It wao; a remarkable performance, one that left '!be D.U.l.'s with only one defense: stop everyone else and hope Dougherty would miss. 
One player who hoped especially hard was Christina Weinmann. She was playing on painfully sore feet, due to infected blisters, and will be on crutches for the next few days. With the score 20-19 in favor of the D.li.I.s, Weinmann feared that Doug­herty would extend her misery. "I was so afraid that Laura would score again anti send the game into overtime," said Weinmann. "My only thought at that point was 'Oh no, more pain.' " 
'!he relief t1nally came because Dougherty did miss anti Weinmann canned a short jumper to end the game. Kaiser, apparently not very keen on overtime either, shouted "Get in!" as Weinmann's shot hung on the rim. 
Kaiser matched Dougherty's heroics through most of the second half. She scored seven second-half points and nine overall. Her passing was excellent. In addition, she played some tough defense which might have been the key to the vic­tory. "I think our defense in­timidated (Going All The Way's) other players," said Kaiser. "We stripped the ball away from them a few times early on and they lost con­fidence." 
Kathy Immonen, 1beresa Schwebel, Julie Schwebel, and Meg­han Flattery were instrumemal in bringing Going All The Way into the t1nals. '!be same can be said of Jill I.indenfeld, Melissa Summer, and Nancy Fitzpatrick of the D.U.I.'s. As Weinmann said after the game, "It was a long, hard road to the final, and I'm very, very tired." 

Brian Behmer and Ed Roohan of«n•L<'~''"'"'s Noble Savages fight 
for a rebound in yesterday's  final. Rousseau's lost  
the showdou•n  to  Rez•enge of  Bunch, 21-16. Behmer.  
howez•er. took home the "Golden  Awardfor the tourna­ 
ment. Phil Wolfhas the game story• at  u·hi/e a complete listing  
ofau•ards is on page 11.  


Cox and Me artlin set SMC records at meet 
By ANDREA LaFRENIERE 
Sports Writer 
'!be Saint Mary's track team com­pleted its seao;on Saturday by com­peting in the Little State Meet, held at Earlham College in Richmond, Ind. 
Sophomores Cris Cox and Trish McPartlin each set a new school record at the event. 
Cox ran the 400-meter hurdles race in a record time of I 17.16 seconds, and McPartlin set a new school mark with her 31-foot, I l­inch effort in the triple jump. 
According to Coach Jean Kerich, the Belles' results were quite good, despite the fact that only eight team members were able to attend the evenr. 
meet was really competitive , and we only took eight of ·rls. Most of them had season the meet, though, so it wa~ a great way to end the season." 
said. 
Belles placed in both the and ~200-meter relay events. Megan McMonigle third place in the javelin, 

rhc:-.~200-meter relay team of tr..~h~m ..n Diane Cancro, Tina Rdd, Lemieux, and Cathy Ken­in 11fth place. wao; pleased not only with efforts at its final meet. 


Blue claims steaks, 31-0, in 55th Blue-Go~d game 
By MARTY BURNS 
Sports Writer 
Saturday afternoon's playing of the 55th annual Blue-Gold football game was supposed to be a little dif­ferent. 
After all, Head Coach Gerry Faust hat.! split his troops into two supposedly equal units, chosen by the four team captains. This format varied significantly from past years, when the Blue squad would consist of all the first-team players against the second-and third-string players on the White. 
Further fueling the competitive fires of the two teams wao; the in­centive of prime steaks for the win­ners versus hot dogs and beans for the losers. 
What happened? 
'!be Blue maintained tradition by rolling over the White, 31-0. Two early fumbles by the White within their own 25-yard line gave the Blue a quick lcat.l, and tailback Alonzo Jef­ferson's second-half running keyed a pair of long scoring drives which sealed the rout. 
1be lopsided scrimmage may not have been meaningful for the 13,364 fans in attendence, but for Faust, who was monitering closely the progress at several key positions this spring, it was a tine exhibition. 
"I was very pleao;ed," said Faust. "'Ihis was an important scrimmage as far ao; looking at certain things. 'lhe enthusiasm wao; there, the hit­ting wa~ tremendous, and we got out without any injuries." 
Faust had a right to breathe a sigh of relief over that last point. Injuries have kept many important players from practicing this spring, and the situation was so desperate on the of­fensive line for the scrimmage that only one ofthe projected starters for the fall was in uniform -Tim Scannell for the Blue. '!be inexperienced 
Spring Football 
~'85 
front line of the White team had an expectedly rough time ao; it could only plow its way to a mere 54 yards of total offense while allowing seven quarterback sacks. 
Linebacker Tony Furjanic of the White, who continued his solid spring play by contributing seven tackles to his team's cause, felt the 
injuries in the offensive trenches 
was the difference. 
"It should have been a closer 
game," said Furjanic. "We have four 
ofour offensive linemen out with in­
juries, and if you don't have an of­
fensive line you can't go anywhere.'' 
Despite the spirited efforts of Furjanic and teammate Ron Weis­senhofer ( H tackles), the Blue squad was able to protect the passer and move the ball more effectively than their counterparts on the White. 
Although the Blue started at a snail's pace ( 29 yards total offense at the half), they were able to ama~s 175 yards for the game. Many of those yards came from the legs of tailback Jefferson who finished the contest as the game's Offensive Most Valuable Player. The 5-9, IH7-pound 
Jefferson was the first player picked by Blue captain Allen Pinkett for the 

scr ' mmagc. and he responded well by oiling up 76 yards on 21 carries. ~0 of those yards came in the op ning drive of the second half wh ·n the Blue went 72 yards in 12 pia ·s to hike the score to 17-0. Jef­fer on then added 22 yards on the gn und and a ~2-yard pass reception fro Blue quarterback Terry An rysiak on the opening drive of th fourth quarter when the victors ched 64 yards for another touch­
oth Furjanic and Faust were impressed but not surprised by Jef­ferron's ability to get by the defense. 
''A.j. ran very well," said Furjanic "I r.·ally like him ao; a runner. He'~ ve · tough to get hold of." ·aust, meanwhile, likes the depth 
see ROlJT, page II 








