

Artificial heart -pages 8-9 

VOL XIX. NO. 97 the independent studt·nt nt·wspaper serving notre Jame and saint mary's TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1985 

Underage drinking object of program 
By MARKS. PANKOWSKI Excise Police, said that most inves­
News Staff tigations result from complaints that 
the excise police receive from local 

Stop Underage Drinking and Sales, 
police or disgruntled parents whose a state-wide program started two 
child had come home intoxicated. years ago, has some local bar 
He believes the raids on the Five operators differing over whether Points taverns were justified. they are being singled out for police 
"The investigations we make are 

raids, but agreeing on the difficulty not unwarranted. When we raid a 
of keeping minors out of their es­certain bar, we've already had offi­
tablishments. cers in there that have observed a 
In the last ten months, four of the number of minors," he said. "It's not 
five taverns situated in an area as ifwe're just hassling people. Each 
known as Five Points have been time we've gone (to a Five Points 
raided under the program. Those bar), there have been minors there." 
bars, all located approximately one 
According to Payne, whose tavern mile from Notre Dame, include 
was raided last Jan. 25, the problemBridget McGuire's Filling Station, 
of minors getting into bars is not The Commons, Corby Tavern, and 
unique to the Five Points area. "I Nickie's. The only tavern that has 
won't say which bars, but it not been raided in the Five Points 
(underage drinking) happens area is Lee's Grill and Barbecue. 
everywhere in the city, and every­

S.U.D.S. is a continuing program one knows about it." run by the Alcoholic Beverage Com­Keene explained the problem the mission and the Indiana State Excise state excise police have in enforcing Police in conjunction with local and the law against underage drinking. state police. It was begun because "They (our agents) go to as many "too many students under the influ­bars as possible. There are 2,000 ence were being killed," said First permits in this district and only five Sergeant Joe Baker of the Indiana ofus here. So you see it's difficult for State Police. us to cover each bar." 
The owner ofNickie's, Ken Payne, Although some involved have said said he believes that the pollee are that the police are singling out the being unfair in their treatment ofthe Five Points bars for underage drink­Five Points taverns. "It (The S.U.D.S. ing violations, Keene disagreed. "If program) is a good idea but they're that's where the problem is, that's being too harsh on the Five Points where we'll go," he said. bars," said Payne. "You never hear of Jack Seiler, bartender at Bridget them raiding other bars in the city. McGuire's Filling Station, said he They should treat all the bars the does not believe that the Five Points same and raid other corners too." bars are being singled out by the 
Aaron Keene, Michigan City Dis­trict lieutenant of the Indiana State see S.U.D.S., page 4 
Cars must be moved 
Special to The Observer 
may return to their respective lots after 6 p.m. tomorrow. The Notre Dame student govern­ment, in conjunction with security, 
Students who currently park in maintenance, and the grounds crew, 
lots D-1 and C-3 must move their is instituting a method. to com­
cars by Thursday at 7 a.m. to the Red 

pletely clear all student lots of the East or Red West lots. They may 
piles of snow which have accum­return to their respective lots after 6 
ulated during the past few weeks. p.m. that same Thursday. 
Students who currently park in During the period in which the 
lots C-2, D-2, and D-6 must move lots are vacated, they will be plowed 
their cars by tomorrow morning at 7 completely. 
to the Red East Lot (south of the All cars not following this plan 
stadium by Senior Bar) or the Red will be towed at the owner's ex­
West Lot (south of the ACC). They pense. 


joeKennedy, president ofAIESEC, gives computer Math Building. "Macintosh training" was the sub­instruction to Kathy Nemsick last night in the Mi­ject ofthe AIESEC computer seminar. crocomputer Room of the Computing Center and 

Westmoreland drops $120 million libel lawsuit before testimony ends 
Associated Press ing the case "would serve no further reputation back. He believes he has purpose," the joint statement dated that now." NEW YORK-A lawyer for William 
Sunday said. 
But Van Gordon Sauter, executiveWestmoreland told a judge yester­The statement said CBS "respects vice president of CBS broadcastday he had dropped his J120 million General Westmoreland's long and group, said he did "not view thatlibel suit against CBS, and the retired faithful service to his country" and statement as an apology."

general declared, "I got what I never meant to imply that CBS lawyer David Boies said hewanted." The network said it was Westmoreland "was unpatriotic or told jurors basically the same thingvindicated but stopped short of disloyal in performing his duties as in his openingstatement. "Ifthat's allclaiming victory. 
he saw them." they wanted, they didn't have to sue The settlement was announced to "If that statement had been made for JI20 million. They didn't have to 
U.S. District Judge Pierre Leva! yes­after the CBS program had been ask for an apology," he said. terday, a few days before testimony 
aired, it would have fully satisfied 
Westmoreland, 70, commandedwas to have ended in the 18-week 

me," Westmoreland said later. 
American forces in Vietnam fromtrial. The suit stemmed from a docu­"I got what I wanted," he said. 1964 to 1968. He filed suit in 1982mentary accusing Westmoreland of "That is what I asked for originally. I after CBS broadcast its documen­suppressing the true strength of consider that I've won by virtue of tary, "The Uncounted Enemy: a Viet­communist forces in Vietnam in ,that statement." nam Deception."

1967 to maintain political support Without the statement, "we The documentary saidfor the war. 
would be goingback to court tomor­Westmoreland insisted that intelli­

Both sides believe "their row," said Dan Burt, gence reports showed no more than respective positions have been ef­Westmoreland's attorney. "The gen­300,000 communist troops despite fectively placed before the public eral has wanted one thing from the evidence pointing to a figure in for its consideration" and continu-beginning ofthe case. He wanted his excess of500.000. 

Many social justice activities available for SMC students 
Editor's Note: This article is the kitchen at St. Augustine's are write letters to their congressmen Africa, will be shown from 5 to 6 will be commemorated both on second of a three-part series ex­planned. encouraging them to vote for a new p.m. in the Wedge Room at the campus and in South Bend. Also amining Saint Mary's concern with The Lenten Fast begins on Ash bill known as HR100. This bill calls dining hall. during that week, a videotape on social justice. Tomorrow's story Wednesday and ends with the close for $1 billion in food aid for Africa. Nicaragua will be shown, along with
The annual "Crop Walk" will be

will examine groups created to bet­of Lent. Students participating in the 
the film "Roses in December." The
held Sunday April 14. Students par­

ter understand and achieve social fast abstain from eating lunch every film is a true story concerning the
ticipating in this 10 kilometer walk

justice. Wednesday. For each student par­murders of three Maryknoll Sisters
will raise money by obtaining spon­

ticipating in the fast, SAGA Food Social and a laywoman working in El Sal­
sors to pledge money for each

Services will donate a sum of $3. The vador.
By KIMBERLY TRENNER kilometer they walk. The money
money collected will be given to. Justice The upcoming "mini-urban
StaffReporter raised will go to an organizationcon­
Saint Mary's World Hunger Coali­plunge" is designed as a compact
cerned with hunger. The walk will

tion and distributed to various atSMC version ofthe 48-hour plunge which
begin and end at St. Joseph's High

hunger-related organizations. many students participated in 
School.

Saint Mary's students interested in during Christmas break. Although participating in events related to so­Feb. 26, Saint Mary's will partici­The films "Water from Stone," During the week of March 24, the the date remains undecided, the cial justice this semester have a wide pate in a nationwide "Call to Action dealing with the drought-stricken crisis in Central America will be a plunge is expected to last for ap­range ofoptions. Varied events from on Africa" day. A letter-writing Sahel region in Africa, and "The Busi­focus of events on campus. The proximately 12 hours. a "mini-urban plunge" to a "Crop booth will be set up in tht: LeMans ness of Hunger," which is about the death ofArchbishop Romero, an im­Walk" to working at the soup Hall lobby. Students will be asked to exportation of crops in relation to portant Central American figure, see JUSTICE, page 5 


The Observer Tuesday, February 19, 1985-page 2 

In Brief 
Kremlin protocol dictates that Soviet President Konstantin Chernenko be the last Politburo member to give a speech before next Sunday's elections for the Russian Federation Parliament, in which he is a candidate. The party chiefusually speaks two days before the elections, but there was still no word yesterday on whether Chernenko would appear. The president's pre-election speech is a major event, and if Chernenko is healthy it seemed unlikely that his appearance would still be in doubt only four days ahead oftime. Chernenko, 73, has not been seen in public since Dec. 27, when he appeared on television to present medals to Soviet writ­ers. -AP 
Black residents ofa vast shantytown near Cape Town, South Africa stoned cars and fought with police yesterday when they heard rumors that they would be forcibly removed. Police used birdshot, rubber bullets and tear gas against the crowds, and three blacks were reported killed. Twenty-nine other people were re­ported injured in the rioting at the Crossroads, a huge squatter city of 60,000 people that sprang up 12 mile~ east of Cape Town in the mid-1970s. At least I 50 blacks have died in sporadic rioting in black townships over a variety of grievances since last August, according to groups monitoring the unrest. -AP 
A 22-year-old athlete who lost his right leg to cancer as a child finished a coast-to-coast run across the United States yesterday, received congratulations from President Reagan, and then jubilantly jumped into the Pacific Ocean. Jeff Keith of Fairfield, Conn., began his run on an artificial leg June 4 at Faneuil Hall in Boston. He finished 3,300 miles later and got doused with champagne. Ameri­can Cancer Society volunteers lined the last 200 yards and released helium balloons as Keith passed with an entourage offellow students from Boston College, where he was a lacrosse goalie. -AP 

Of Interest 
University President Father Theodore Hesburgh's speech on the future of the University was cancelled last night. Ac­cording to Hesburgh, a lack of publicity and therefore a lack of par­ticipation forced the cancellation. -The Obseroer 
The deadline for applications for the Semester Around the World abroad program has been extended another week until this Friday, Feb. 22. The Semester Around the World program features travel and study in India, Europe and Asia, and is open to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. For more information, call Program Director Cyrus Pullapilly at 284-0889. -The Obseroer 

Money isn't everything. A survey by the Ameri­can Management Association found that college graduates looking for work are more interested in the company's reputation ( 81 per­cent), advancement opportunities (76 percent), company growth potential ( 74 percent), fringe benefits (59 percent) and job security ( 49 percent). High salaries finished las( with 34 percent. -The Obseroer 
"South Africa and u.s. Policy" will be the topic of a dis­cussion tonight at 8:30 in the Center for Social Concerns. The guest speaker is Neo Mnunzana, who is a representative to the United Na­tions for the African National Congress, the liberation party ofSouth Africa, now banned by the government. All are welcome to attend. Sponsored by the World Hunger Coalition. -The Obseroer 
A mandatory meeting for students interested in running for class office or off-campus commissioner will be in LaFortune's Little Theater tonight at 7.-The Obsen1er 


Weather · 
A 20 percent chance of light snow today with highs from 30 to 35. Tonight partly cloudy and cold with lows near 20. Partly cloudy and warmer tomorrow with highs near 
40.-AP 



Senior comps last test to be passed 
Talk to any Saint Mary's senior these days and she will tell you that the distance to the finish line is not marked 
Anne 
by days but by one major hurdle which stands between graduation and her. 

Monastyrski
The hurdle is worse for some than for others but in every case no Saint Mary's student will earn her degree 
Saint Mary's Editor 
without passing her senior comprehensive exam or project. Senior comprehensive exams, or comps -these 

three words evoke many different reactions. Some stu­dents think they are beneficial and some think comps rangements with the College to complete them. Last are there just to stump students. Much depends on year, for instance, only two students did not get a one's major and on the type of examination for that degree because they had not satisfactorily completed major. their comps. In addition, departments usually only re­
It's that time of year when anticipation of spring quire students to retake parts of the exam that did not break is overshadowed by the gloom of comps. Every make the grade. senior at Saint Mary's, without a doubt, is able to ex­There are problems, though, with the way comps are press trepidation about these exams. It's serious busi­handled in individual departments. Currently there are ness. Spring break aside, comps can put a damper on no formal guidelines departments must adhere to, graduation. In fact, it can mean the difference between a leaving much leeway for differences among depart-
degree or a blank diploma.  ments. Some students pass  
Saint Mary's is  one  of a  comps merely by complet­ 
dwindling number of col­leges which still requires comps. Nevertheless comps are an important hurdle in  1.-.. -r  \ I ,...­0­'­J ~  ing a semester project, others are tested in one long six-hour test and some have comps spread out over a  
the fourth and final lap of a  week or two days. In short,  
college  career.  They  are  a  there is too much inconsis­ 
way for  students  to  show  tency.  
that  they  have  not  only  
taken  several  courses  in  Because of the inherent  
their major field  but have  differences  among  majors  
mastered their major.  there should be differences  
The  rationale  behind  in the examinations and an  
them  is  that  after  having  appropriate exam for each.  
learned the "pieces" ofone's  But  should  the  dis­ 
major,  mastery  of  one's  crepencies be so major that  
major should be exhibited  some students are not chal­ 
through some form of exam  lenged and others walk out  
or  project,  according  to  of the exams knowing less  
Teresa Marcy, dean of aca­ then  when  they  entered?  
demic affairs.  Comps should be challeng­ 
The nature of comprehensive exams has changed  ing but should  not  leave students bewildered and  
over  the years.  Individual  departments  are  free  to  frustrated.  
decide on the content of the exams, as well as whether  How  do  you  test  someone  over  a  major when  

electives come into play? Should departments expect years at Saint Mary's, students take a variety ofcourses 
to administer an exam or project. During their four 
students to come to grips with areas never studied? within their major field of study. In the end, trying to 
What it may be reduced to then, is one of two things. make sense ofall the courses in order to formulate one Allow students more of a choice within the comp coherent whole is a challenge for some. Comps are a 
structure so that they are mastering what they have way to gather all the pieces and come to terms with 
learned instead of trying to come to grips with new one's major, creating an entire picture. 
knowledge during their comps. Or make certain stu­Perhaps that accounts for the general sentiment dents take all the courses necessary in order to satisfac­about comps. Many students don't like the idea of 
torily complete the comprehensive exam. comps, though after passing them they seem to appreci­ate their worth. The views expressed in the Inside Column Despite all the fear offailing and not earning a degree, are the views ofthe author, and do not neces­only a few students actually do not earn their degree by 
sarily reflect the views ofthe editorial board 
commencement weekend. Those that do not must 
orstaff 
return to Saint Mary's at some time or make other ar-
Professional Typing 
TINA'S SECRETARIAL SERVICE 
UJbt IUtiglJts oftiltC!Iastlt 
-Multiple letters Resumes 
Men's Hair Styling at its finest ... 
-Disertations Term Papers 
/--·, minutes from campus !
-Same Day Service Available 
232-8749 

$ OOHAIRCUTS 
. ~ Haiccut,




-1!!1 
shampoo,
Thankstoyou... 
272-0312
it works... 
& blowdry
277-1619 
Vi1
forALLOFUS 

545.:\:\ ferrace une 
$8.50
(St. Rd. .23) 
• LlnltedWIIy 

Acro1>S from Martin's (hair must be shampooed day ofcut) 
We are only minutes from campus ! 

Attention Seniors: SeniorFormalBids Sale 

Cost: $56, includes cocktail hour, dinner, and dance Where: LaFortune (and at SMC in LeMans) 
When: February ~~0-21 S-7pm February 1.5-l~ r::...7 pm March 4-10 5-7pm (also table, room and flower orders) 
Limited Number of2nd City Tickets available .for $7.50 each, will be sold starting 2/20 
-

The Observer 
The O~~r (USPS W9 2-4000) Is published Monday through Friday and on bome football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The O~rver is published by the students of tbe University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary"s College. Subscriptions may he: purchased for S30 per year ( S20 per se· mester) by writing The O~rver, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 46~~6. 
The Observer is a memhc:r of The A.'ISOCiated Pre!IS. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Today's issue was produced by: 
Deslgro Edltor..................•........... Anne Long DesiR" Assistant. .Jane Anne Riedford La)•otll Staff lle<·kv C~underman. Melissa . Warnke. l arr) ilu. k ·\lice Kroeger 7)•pest•tli!f"S.liack 'A. J racy Mary F. lien and Mike Sulli"·an 
News l!.dttor............................... Mark Potter Copv l!dltor........... . .................... Frank llpo Sports Copy Editor .................. Mary Sieger Viewpoint Layout ..................... Paul Bruce Featut"es Copy Editor............Teresa K<:<:fe Features LtryoutBob Vonderheide, Cath­
erine Coffey ND Day Editor ........•................. Alic<: Storin Ad Design ......... Anne Marie Furlelgh, lisa 
Oickin,.on Typist ................................... Gina Farabaugh Photograplx!r.................... Nicholas Griffin 

The Observer Tuesday, February 19, 1985-page 3 

Posters to be stamped by Election Committee 
By MIKE MILLEN 
SeniorStaffReporter 
In an attempt to curtail student government campaigning viola­tions, all campaign posters must be stamped by the Ad Hoc Election Committee as a result of last night's unanimous Student Senate vote. 
Student Body Vice President Cathy David, chairwoman of the committee, explained "the reason for this addition is that we don't have the 'secret espionage force' which Ombudsman did." Under the pro­posed system, David and the other committee member Mike Quinn, ex­ecutive coordinator, would have complete discretion in administer­ing penalites for failing to abide by election rules. 
Senator Javier Oliva agreed with the new policy and said, "it is a much better system" than the current one. A final revision of the plan will be given in a future senate meeting. 
Kevin Howard, Keenan Hall presi­dent, presented a petition from the Hall President's Council requesting "a formal and public explanation of the senate's actions concerning the eligibility of the Pat Browne/Joanie Cahill ticket." The petition found "reprehensible the lack of accoun­tability through the use of a secret ballot and the inability of the Senate to enforce its own rules." The senate is currently formulating a response. 
In light of the Reagan administra­

tion's student-loan cutbacks. Karen 
McCloskey and Ed Augustine, Stu­
dent Lobby commissioners, an­
nounced the creation of the 
Committee to Lobby for Student and Financial Aid. "A lot ofcutbacks will hinder students," McCloskey said, "what we need to do is send our opinions to senators." The commit­tee will have petitions and form­letters in the near future, and also hopes to hold a workshop on what students can do about these cuts. 
Student Body President Rob Ber­tino announced the inception ofthe emergency snow removal plan. The plan involves students parking near the stadium in order to facilitate the clearing ofother parking lots. 
The senate unanimously en­dorsed the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's College Charity Ball, which is de­signed to help meet the crisis in Et­hiopia. Danny Harrison, chairman of the event, announced April 20 as the date for the ball. He said he would like to see "a 30 percent response" for the formal dance. 
Kevin McGovern, Student Activi­ties Board manager, announced several appointments to the board. Lee Broussard, former Browne/Cahill campaign manager, was appointed as the board manager. Rob Hoover will serve as the new general business manager, andJack Gallagher as controller. 
Exchange Commissioner Steve Taeyaerts announced last week's student exchange as being success­ful. He said DePaul or Villanova might host Notre Dame students next semester. 
In other matters, Quinn an­nounced the timetable for the Com­mittee for Restructuring Student Government. He said only the due dates of the various reports have been finalized. 
SObering Advice·; . can save alife~~~ 
Think Before You Drink ~~ Before You Drive .~~-­


Student Body PresidentRob Bertino andStudent Body Vice President Cathy David discuss business 


Artificial heart recipient doing well 

Associated Press 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -Doctors said yesterday that Murray Haydon is ad­justing so well to his artificial heart that they have turned up its speed, taken him off a respirator and expect soon to have him sipping clear fluids. 
"Mr. Haydon's condition is so good it's frightening," Dr. Allan Lan­sing, chairman of Humana Heart In­stitute International, said at an afternoon briefing. He said the 58­year-old retired autoworker "looks extremely bright," is attentive to his family and flashed his doctors a thumbs-up sign. 
Dr. Robert Jarvik, the inventor of the artificial heart, said he was im­pressed with the ease of Haydon's 
EVEN STRAIGHTliS CAN'T HELP IF YOU FWNK TUITION. 
Today, the toughest thing about going to college is finding the money to pay for it. But Army ROTC can help-two ways! 
First, you can apply for an Army ROTC scholarship. It covers tuition, books, and supplies, and pays you up to $1,000 each school year it's in effect. 
But even if you're not a scholarship recipient, ROTC can still help with financial assis­tance-upto$1,000 a year for your last two years in the program. 
For more information, contact your Professor of Military Science. 
ARMY ROTC. 
BEAUlOU CAM BE. 
CALL LTC 
CPT 
239-6264 

surgery Sunday, completed in lowing him to breathe on his own. record time of 35 hours. "It was like The mechanical heart now a routine open heart case -it was thumping in Haydon's chest was ini­pretty neat," Jarvik said. tially set to beat at 50 beats per min­
Haydon, still listed in critical but ute. It was turned up to 60 beats per stable condition, was expected to minute Sunday and was scheduled get his first sip ofclear fluids late yes­to be turned up again to a near­terday, Lansing said. During the day normal rate of 70 beats per minute doctors took him off a respirator, al-late yesterday, Lansing said. 

Students vie for prize 
Special to The Observer 

A team of Notre Dame students will test their marketing and adver­tising skills as they compete for a $10,000 first prize in the 1985 Gen­eral Motors Intercollegiate Market­ing Program. The program challenges students from colleges and universities around the country to develop a cost-effective six­month marketing and advertising campaign to sell the 1985 Cadillac Cimarron. 
Team members will have an op­portunity to drive and evaluate a Cimarron that is made available to them for the duration of the pro­gram. Each school's entry will con­sist of an on-campus oral presentation and a written treatise. Entries will be judged on the quality of market research and creative strategy developed by each team. 
Notre Dame, one of 10 schools vying for the prize, will work under the direction ofMichael Etzel, chair­man ofthe marketing department. A panel of marketing and advertising professionals will visit each campus in the spring to review each team's oral presentation. The written sub­mission will be judged at GM headquarters in Detroit. 
Representatives of the winning 
1,

teams will travel to Detroit in May to present their ideas to senior man­agement and receive awards. The 1,second place team will receive S7,000 and an honorable mention award of S2,500 will be given to a third place team. 
Other schools participating are the universities of Iowa, Rochester, 

I
Wisconsin, Denver, Florida, Baylor, Case-Western, San Diego State and Tulane. 
l 

The SAB Ideas &Issues Committee Presents 


PIET SCHABORT 
Vice Consul for Information of the 
REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA 
at 8 pm, Wednesday, February 20th LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
''SOUTH AFRICA: AN AFRICAN PERSPECTIVE" 
i ' • • • .......
...-.. -..., .·...... -........•.-.. " ...... 


The Observer Tuesday, February 19, 1985-page 4 


Bomb in Sidon kills 3, injures 40 
AMoclatcd Press 
BEIRUT, Lebanon· Acar bomb ex· ploded outside a Shiite militia office yesterday, killing three people and Injuring more than 40. In Sidon, the southern port just abandoned by Is· raeli troops, Shiites tore down Lebanese flags and obliterated pictures of the Christian president, Amin Gemayel. 
Lebanese soldiers did not try to stop the demonstration in Sidon, which came two days after the army moved in behind the Israeli pullout. The Shlltes, many of whom were from Beirut, plastered posters of Iran's Shiite leader Ayatollah Ruhol· lah Khomeini over pictures of Gemayel put up before his visit Sun· day to mark the Israeli withdrawal. 

Persian Gulf site of attack on ship 
AMoclatedPress 
MANAMA, Bahrain · Jet fighters, believed to be Iranian, attacked a Kuwaiti-registered container ship with rocket and cannon fire yester· day and set it ablaze in the Persian Gulf north of Abu Dhabi, marine salvage executives in Manama re­ported. 
One crewman was reported mis· sing from the 35,616-ton AI-Manakh, and salvage tugboats from Dubai and Bahrain battled the fire, the execu­tives said. 
J'ljeither Iraq nor Iran, whose four­year-old war spread last year to commercial shipping in gulf lanes, claimed responsibility for yester­day's raid, but marine shipping 


S.U.D.S. 
continuedfrom page 1 
police. He thinks that the bars near Notre Dame do, in fact, have a prob· tern with underage drinking. 
"I don't think there's any harass· ment. They (the police) have to come up with numbers downtown and the bars near Notre Dame are where the minors are," said Seiler. 
The owner of The Commons, Pasquale Anastasio, was afraid of jeopardizing his upcoming hearing in front of the A.B.C., and thus refused to go on record with a state· ment. 
Although Five Points tavern operators differ over whether their bars are being singled out by the police or not, they do agree that it is extremely difficult to keep minors out of their businesses. 
Tony Anzalone, manager ofCorby Tavern, is frustrated with the di· lemma he and others face when checking identification cards. "We can't be Nazis. If they've got an ID with their picture and birthdate on 

Many of the Shiites were armed with assault rifles or rocket grenade launchers, but no shootings were re­ported. 
Beirut police said the car bomb exploded outside an office of the Amal militia in the Rwaiss area a Shiite suburb south ofthe capital.' 
They said the car, a Mercedes packed with explosives, was parked about six feet from the three-story building. 
The blast, at 4:30 p.m., set several cars ablaze and heavily damaged the building and two adjacent apart· ment blocks of six or seven stories each. It broke windows in buildings up to I 0 blocks away. 
sources said the attackers were 
Iranian. 
They quoted the captain of AI· 
Manakh as saying in his initial 
distress signal that his ship was "hit 
by Iranian planes." 
The sources and executives spoke on condition they would not be identified. They identified the stricken vessel as owned by the United Arab Shipping Co., which, they said, belongs jointly to Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Iraq, Bahrain, Qatar, and the United Arab Emigrates. 
"According to information available from our tugboats, the AI· Manakh was hit with a rocket and cannon fire near the Abut Bakoush oilfield (about 90 miles) north of 
it, what am I supposed to do? We can't be turning away paying cus­tomers because we think they'll throw their IDs in the trash can if they're caught by the police." 
Anzalone, whose bar was raided last May 4 and Feb. 7 of this year. believes that the operators ofCorby Tavern were unjustly blamed for al· lowing minors inside the bar. 
"We had two people checking !D's the night we were raided (Feb. 
7) just like every night when we think we're going to be busy," he said. "The problem was when they (the minors) were caught, they didn't show their fake ID's to the police. They either threw them in the trash can or handed them to a friend. "Ilte police then thought we didn't check them." 
Seiler, whose bar (Bridget McGuire's) was raided May 4 of last year, al<;<J feels there is a problem with the checking of identification cards. He said, "You can get driver's license~ and !D's somewhere close to perft"ct. We're tough, but people are bound to get by." 
According to Keene, the Indiana State Excise Police help the tavern force their onkr~ Ambulancr-o; and cars carrying injured people sped from the den~ely populated neigh­borhood. 
In Sidoa, several thousand demonstrators · many from the radi· cal "Hezbollah," (Party of God) · lis· tened to speeches calling for an Islamic republic in Lebanon. They chanted "Allah akbar!" (God is Great) and "Sidon is Moslem! It can­not be ruled by a Maronite!" 
Gemayel is a Maronite Christian. 
At one point, several armed men halted an army jeep and tore a Lebanese flag off it. Others smashed a liquor store and a pinball parlor, apparently in line with the Islamic prohibition ofalcohol and gambling. 
Abu Dhabi," said one maritime 
salvage executive. 
The Al-Manakh flew the Kuwaiti 
flag and was carrying unspecified 
cargo from Bahrain to Abu Dhabi 
when attacked. he said. 
Ifit is confirmed that Iran attacked the ship, it would be the first such raid by Iran since Iraq threatened on Jan. I to step up attacks on gulfship­ping. Iraq's avowed aim is to choke off the economy of its war foe by blocking Iranian oil exports. 
Early last year Iraq designated a 50-mile radius around Iran's Kharg Island oil terminal a "military exclu­sion zone" and warned international shipping to keep clear or risk attacks by Iraqi warplanes and navy units. 
owners to combat the problem. "Business people have a lot of money invested in their bars so we'll do anything we can to help," Keene said. "We have programs that we present to tavern and package store owners. We give them hints on checking IDs and ways to spot the phony ones." 
Despite the Indiana State Excise Police programs and the bar operators' best efforts, the tavern owners and employees said they still have trouble spotting the fake iden­tification cards. 
Tony Anzalone summed up the frustration of the bar operators. "The kids are jeopardizing our exis­tence. To them it's a slap on the wrist whether they tell the police they had a fake ID or not. They just get a S50 fine. We've got to go in front of the A.B.C." 

GOGREYHOUND
-----------~----------­
t.,,.y 

An Israeli soldier hU!(S a dol( his unit had hefrif'llded while ser­ving in the Lebanese port city ofSidon, before boarding the truck which was to take him home to Israel. Israel pulledoutofthe Sidon area on Saturday in the first stage of the three-stage withdrawal from south Lebanon. Related story at left. 

s'\~v ~v\ 

~,e>?-' LOGAN 
CENTER 
announces a new tradition-­this Saturday: 
CARNIVAL REC 
*games 
* prizes *fun 

And it's all for the kids This Saturday 2/23 9-11 :30 am New volunteers both welcomed and needed 

~~ Greyhound l 
j 

givesyou abreak 
onSpringBreak.-· 

Round trip. Anywhere Greyhound goes. 
This spring hreak, if you and your friends arc from the dale of purrhast• _ thinking ahcml heading to the slopes, the heach or So this spring hreak, get areal hreak. Go anv· just home for avisit, <Jreyhound can take you there. IMlerel ireyflound goes for $99or k.•;s. · h~ •mly $9!1 or les.,, round trip, For more information, call: 
just show ll'your colle&e sludenll.f l. card 

GREYHOUND BUS TERMINAL
IMlenyou purdn'<'vour (JrL'}ttoundlickd. Your 

IMICHIANA REGIONAl AlllPOII'JJ
ticket will then be gixxl for travel for 15 Jar; 

287-6541 
.\\Npn:..._'lll4\..a..h·o!lq_'l,•.,judt1~U1 <:nllf"II1JU'lna,..' N.HIIhl'fi.lt-..uur•'~ Tkkt-1'"'~ "'Hf.-.lt~·.nlj..~""H"rtr.M~tllltif~llllllll..nn,lno. ,;nl •~hl'fJ'I.II'Iklf\oll~'.l'l'lt'r'< lt'f1.1111tl....ln.1~""~ llfl\nflt"t1M.·~ 1~-K.'IIMII:dlllllk'd f«•ollo.Jifl(inld;J 
And leavethedrivingtous. 
The Observer 

SMC endorsement forum critiqued 
By ANNE GALLAGHER 
Senior StaffKeporter 
The recent endorsement method of candidates for Saint Mary's stu­dent body officers by The Observer was critiqued at last night's meeting ofSaint Mary's Board ofGovernance 
Anne Marie Kollman, vice presi dent for student affairs, questioned the board about the success of the Feb. ll 'Meet the Candidates' night and asked them how they felt about the format of the discussion. 
The Observer forum, which con­sisted of member~ of the edit<Jrial board and Saint Mary's reporters, was well received. Most board mem­bers emphasized their approval that The Observer forum took place on Saint Mary's campus. "It was inter­esting and I really enjoyed it," said Kacey Horner, public relations com­missioner. 
A few board members felt that some questions, concerning student organizations and the minorities issue, were irrelevant to the plat­form. "It seemed more like an infor­mation system for them," saidjoanie Gihlin. LeMans Hall president. 
Trish Cullo, election commis­sioner. ~aid the questions The Observer brought up were good but that the context in which they were asked was poor. "They hit the right issues; they just didn't ask the right questions." 
Tht: suggestions for improvement ranged from having a mediator for the discussion to making The Observer aware of the platform's is­sues. Despite the criticism, the board members were pleased with The Observer's presentation and were glad the forum was held at Saint Mary's. 
Julie Strazzabosco, vice-president for academic affairs, also discussed the Alumnae Phon-a-thon, March 4­7, which will attempt to raise $7';,000. "It's really the major fundraiser for development," said Strazzabosco. 
The phone-a-thon will take place Monday through Thursday, 6-10:30 
p.m. Thursday night is traditionally 'Senior Night', and seniors are en­couraged to help out that evening as they will be contacting recent graduates. Everyone who par­ticipates will be given a free five minute phone call anywhere in the United States. 
The Center For Spirituality to be formally opened at Saint Mary's 
By ELLYN MASTAKO 

News Staff 
Through The Center For Spirituality, Saint Mary's is offering its resources and leadership as a Catholic women's college to become a center for spirituality, said Keith Egan, chairman ofSaint Mary's religious studies department. 

Egan submitted his proposal to create The Center For Spirituality at Saint Mary's in March 19M4. The pro­posal was first prt·'>ented to College President John Duggan, and then to the Board of Regents who approved it last April. 
In his proposal Egan said, "Saint Mary's must refuse to jettison any of its sacred traditions and, yet, seek ways to enrich its mission as a liberal arts college in the Catholic tradition. 
"This proposal suggests that the establishment at Saint Mary's Col­lege ofa Center for Spirituality is one way for the College to affirm its traditional Catholic values and at the same time to address the crucial need in the decades ahead for a greater emphasis upon the spiritual formation of American Catholics. Saint Mary's College has a unique heritage out ofwhich it can contrib­ute to the formation of women as leaders in the Church." 
Egan said he hopes that a Center For Spirituality at Saint Mary's Col­lege will prepan: women to be the kind of leaders in the Church that the Spirit calls them to be. 
He said, "Saint Mary's is trying to emphasize its mission in an attempt to make the College a leader in the discovery ofnew roles for women in the Church." Campus Ministry, the religious studies department, and the Centerwill all be co-operating in this goal. 
After two years of planning, the Center will formally be opened March 2M. 
Monika Hellwig, a noted theolo­gian, will speak at the Center's opening. Her topic will be "Christian Women in a Troubled World, Can We Make a Difference?" The following day she will meet with students and faculty to discuss questions raised by her speech. 
"The Center will foster the ac­quisition of the skills for reflecting upon religious experience, the kind of reflection that was characteristic of Saint Mary's pioneering graduate program in theology from the 1940s through the 1960s. The Center will continue this spirit in a new way that corresponds to the needs of our times," said Egan. 
Chairman of the religious stu<ltes department since 1983, Egan received his Ph.D from Cambridge University. He is an internationally recognized scholar and teacher, and will be co-director ofthe Center. In­terviews are currently being held with prominent women theologians in order to name the other co­director. 
"We are offering Saint Mary's as a national center that will invite its own, and men and women from all overwho are interested in exploring the place of women in the Church today," said Egan. "The Center was born of the recognition of two realities in our time. 
"First, that the credibility ofChris­tian churches in the corningdecades will depend on how well they offer their people the inner riches oftheir spirituality and second, the Church's credibility will also depend in great measure on how it invites women to fuller participation and greater roles ofleadership." 
Programs will primarily be on the campus but plans are made to have some events around the country. These will include speakers, workshops, and seminars con­centrating on adult education. The Center will invite men and women ofall faiths to participate. 
Each june during reunion days the Center will sponsor continuing edu­cation for alumnae. This year Rosemary Haughton, a British theo­logian, will conduct a symposium on women in the Church. A seminar on "Carmelite Spirituality" will also be held this summer. 
,----------------------------------------------~
Exdting and Challenging Career Opportunities 
Master of Business Administration 
A small. highly selective MBA program has been designed by The Ohio State University to provide professional management education to students with nonbusiness academic backgrounds. This two-year full-time program 
• 
facilitates a high level of student and faculty-student interaction 

• 
has no prerequisite cour~e work 

• 
IS especially attractive tc students with liberal arts. soentific. and other nonbusiness backgrounds 

• 
IS built upon a lightly Integrated study of foundation management tools and concepts 


• offers the opportunity to concentrate 1n one or two management fields through elective course work 
• is offered by one of the top 25 schools of management in the country and is accredited by the Amencan Assembly of Collegiate Schools of Business 
Last year's graduates were very successful in finding career opportunities. Examples of pos1t1ons they selected Include the following: 
• 
assistant to the chief executive officer. Midland Mutual Life 

• 
field marketing manager. Fc;:rd Motor Company 


• 
management trainee with an International assignment. Chase Manhattan Bank 

• 
assistant product manager. Pillsbury 

• 
financial analyst. Hewlett Packard 

• 
inventory control manager. IBM Corpor<>tion 

• 
account executive. Merrill Lynch 

• 
consultant. Price Wate.house 

• 
management trainee · vith an international 


assignment. Procter and Gamble For a brochure describing this program and application information. please contact: 
Director, MBA Programs 
The Ohio State University 
112 Hagerty Hall 1775 College Road Columbus,. OH 43210-1399 614-422-8511 

The Ohio State University 

Tuesday, February 19, 1985-page 5 


i 
j 
1 
l , 
Associated Press 

EAGLE PASS, Texas -Gunfire during a political rally on the Mexican side of the International Bridge sparked a stampede across the span into this border town Sun­day, American and Mexican officials said. 
Eleazar Cobos, National Action's mayoral candidate in the disputed Dec. 2 city elections, said police rushed the crowd blocking the bridge and began shooting, and nearly 100 people ran to the Eagle Pass side ofthe bridge. 
Mexican police reported no deaths and three people wounded in the violence in Piedras Negras. An American police dispatcher whose report could not be confirmed said five people died and 30 were wounded. 
A supporter of Mexico's opposi­tion National Action Party shot three judicial police around 3 p.m. during a party rally blocking the bridge on the Piedras Negras side. 
Justice 
continuedfrom page 1 

In the past, students have visited various places in South Bend -such as the soup kitchen at St. Augustine's parish to make and serve soup, and to the Justice and Peace Center, which has served the needy people of South Bend since 1974. Students have also visited the South Hold Her­itage, a local civic group which helps people to repair and to maintain their housing. 
Towards the end of the day there will be a celebration of the Euc­harist, followed by a dinner. Stu­dents are then given the option of visiting the local jail to talk with the prisoners and the police officers. 
Mary Turgi, director of Campus Ministry, said, "The idea (of the mini-plunge) is to provide students 
. with a mini-experience of the real plunge held over Christmas break. The mini-plunge gives students the chance to develop a sense of the local civic community." 

After~ lastexam, 
what toughquestions will you still be facing? 

Wdon't have your answers. But we'll listen to your questions, 
share some of our own about who we want to become and where we want to journey. For anyone who has considered the path of priesthood, the Holy Cross Fathers' One-Year Candidate Program provides an opportunity to ask and explore the possibilities in community. 
Contact: Rev. Andre Leveill~. C.S.C. 
Vocation Director Box 541 
• Notre Dame. IN 46556 (219) 283-6385 
~i~~~_<>__i_ll___t________________

Tu-esd-ay-,F-eb_ru_ary_l_9,_19-85--pa-ge-6 
Napoleon Duarte faces a very rocky road 
Three months from today, for the third time in five years, Notre Dame graduates will be addressed by a head of state. This time, however, the speaker will be one of Notre Dame's own. For jose Napolean Duarte, the 
Brian McKeon 
reflecting 
first Notre Dame graduate to become a head ofstate, speaking to the class of 1985 will be a relatively simple task in comparison to his current job. 
Duarte, as you probably know, is the presi­dent of El Salvador, a country In the midst ofa bloody civil war now in its sixth year. At pres­ent he faces a monumental task · creating a democratic government in a country that has little experience with democracy. 
Duarte is not without his opponents. E1 Sal­vador, after decades of rule by a repressive military supported by the landed elites, has become greatly polarized. On the right sits the wealthy oligarchy and the military, a small minority which for years has controlled most of the land and the wealth in the country, while keeping a majority of the population in poverty and submission. The most familiar name associated with the right is Roberto d'Aubisson, the leader of the ARENA party. d'Aubisson, who counts among his friends that enlightened Senator Jesse Helms, is con­nected with the ruthless death squads respon­sible for the murder of thousands of innocent civilians. Robert White, former U.S. ambassa­dor to El Salvador, has called d'Aubisson a "pathological killer." 
On the other side of the spectrum is the left 
• revolutionaries hoping to construct a new Salvadoran society. The Farabundo Marti Na­tional Liberation Front ( FMLN ). the guerilla coalition and the Democratic Revolutionary Front (FUR), the political wing, hold substan­tial power in certain sections of the county and show no si,!lns ofgiving up. 
In the middle of this Duarte, with the assis­tance of the United States, tries to hold to­gether a democracy which currently can only be described as fragile. Duarte today is at the core of the Reagan administration policy in the region, and he looks to the United States for much of his support. He was not always a staunch supporter of the United States. In 1969, he said, "The United States maintains the Iberoamerican countries in a condition of direct dependence upon the international po­litical decisions most beneficial to the United States...Thus the North Americans preach to us democracy while everywhere they support dictatorships." 
Now, however, he sings a different tune. It has been widely reported In the American and European press that Duarte received financial backing from the CIA in the March 1984 elec­tions that brought him to the presidency. 
We do know, at any rate, that Duarte is a brave man dedicated to his country. In 1972, presidential elections were held in which early returns showed Duarte's candidacy to be leading. In a manner with which, Sal­vadorans have become familiar, the military stole the election from Duarte and pronounced their candidate the winner. Soon after, Duarte was beaten up and put on a plane to Venezuela, where he lived in exile until 1979, when the current civil war began. 
Will Duarte succeed? At this point in time it is difficult to say. Duarte's regime in El Sal­vador today hangs in precarious balance. The forces of the right hold tremendous power in addition to much of the wealth that the country desperately needs in order to avoid economic collapse. Those on the left, after fighting for over five years, will not give up the struggle unless some of their demands are met. Until Duarte and his supporters in the United States realize this, the war will grind on. • 
Brian McKeon is a seniorgovermentmajorat Notre Dame and is a regular Viewpoint col­umnist. 
CACPO is promoting awareness and action 
Awareness is the knowledge of one's sur­rounding environment, even of one's very self. It Is the ability to critically evaluate infor­mation and form an "awareness" of one's world which constitutes an important ele­ment of the educational experience. 
The mission ofeducation includes enabling the student to apply his or her knowledge in 
Gerry Foley 

, 
r
, guest column 
some practical manner, to responsibly act

~ 
upon an informed conviction, whatever it

r 
may be. 

r 
A new campus group, the Central America

r 
r Contingency Plan Organization has been 
r formed to encourage Notre Dame students to become more fully aware of U.S. policy in Central America, specifically in Nicaragua and, based on their awareness, to act upon their convictions in a manner most personally prekrahle to the student. CACPO's m1ssion is to be carried out in a variety ofspecific practi­cal measures. 
CACPO has compiled a twenty-six page in­formation packet for each dorm. The packet includes articles from a variety of sources in­cluding Sojourners, the 1982 CIA Manual and other publications concerning the history of U.S.-Nkaragua relations, the philosophy ofthe Sandinista government and their respective "successes" and "failures," the Church in Nicaragua and other topics of interest. The packet is designed as a "tool" for further indi­vidual study and reflection and as a means for stimulating much-needed discussion of the complex issues at hand. 
In addition to the information packet, mem­bers ofCACPO will make a brief presentation in each dorm and will be available for ques­tions and discussion. The dorm reprer­sentatives will post the date of the pre11entation for their respective halls. These 
activities will serve as a prelude to SOLA's up­
coming Central America Week, during which 
further information and opportunities for dis­
cussion will be made available. 
Based on accumulated information and in­
formed conviction, CACPO will provide 
students who oppose U.S. policy in Central 
America an opportunity to express them­
selves by signing a petition to that effect. The 
petition drive will begin the week of March 4 
in both dining halls. 
Those who sign the petition will be sent a 
pledge sheet from the South Bend justice and 
Peace Center. The pledge will provide stu­
dents so inclined with an option to further act 
upon their convictions in a variety of ways, 
ranging from engaging in daily prayer for 
peace to participating in public witnesses of 
funding the local Contingency Plan move­
ment. The degree of action available for the 
student to engage in is directly proportional 
to the intensity of his or her convictions re­
garding this issue. 
It is important to note that CACPO supports 
the individual's right to his or her own politi­
cal and personal beliefs, whatever they may 
be. However, the organization is founded on 
the premise that individual convictions be 
formed responsibly through awareness and 
not "convenience." Therefore, we encourage 
all students to take advantage of the work of 
CACPO, SOLA and others in helping campus 
students to become more responsible and in­
formed citizens ofour nation. Your efforts on 
your own behalfin this manner will ultimately 
speak to your concern for your being and your 
world. 
We believe Notre Dame students are 
worthy of such concern. Please join our ef­
forts to promote awareness and stimulate 
dialogue on the important issue ofU.S. Central 
America policy. 
If you want more information about CACPO contact Gerry Foley at 239-7735 or jeanne Olson at 283-1345. 


Lucifer addresses his disciples and the media 
Upon seeing the crowds, Lucifer called his disciples (and the media) to a lecture and to talk with them in the public forum, saying: 
"Blessed are you thoughtless, for you are ours. Blessed are you who make merry, for we need not worry about you. Blessed are you who lust for injustice, for you will be satisfied with us and we with you. Blessed are you cruel, for you are made after our own image. 
Jurgen Brauer 

Sunday school 
Blessed are you wicked in heart, for you will see us. Blessed are you warmongers, for you are called the sons of Lucifer. Blessed are you who persecute others for injustice's sake, for yours is the kingdom of hell. Blessed are you when you revile men and persecute them and utter all kinds of evil against them, falsely, on our behalf. Libel and scorn, for great is your reward in hell." 
Then Luficer continued, saying. "You have heard that it was said, 'An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth, and do not resist one who is evil'?" And Beelzebub answered, saying: "Stop burning your rubber and I will stop smoking; take a preferential option for the poor and we will divest from South Africa; create a national full employment policy and we will let Notre Dame workers unionize. Do not resist one who is evil, but get at least even with him." 
"Again you have heard this saying, 'You shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy'?," Lucifer asked. And the Devil responded, saying, "Hate your enemy and your neighbors as well so that you may be called the sons of Lucifer who is in hell. Ifyou hate those who hate you, what reward do you have? Therefore, hate those Bishops who would do good against you, curse those who bless your riches, persecute those poor Americans who need to love you (for their livelihood depends on you) and slowly mur­der whosoever in the less developed nations provides the resources upon which your life is built." 
And you have heard that it was said to the men of old: '"Thou shall not kill, not even in­sult thine brother with words'?" And the Ser­pent, old, wise and experienced, answered, saying, "Did God say ...? But I say unto you: fornication, impurity, licentiousness, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, anger, selfish­ness, dissension, party spirit, envy, drunken­ness. carousing and the like, all of these only kill ourselves. Therefore, there is nothing wrong therein." 
"And again you have heard," Lucifer said, "that it was said to the men of old, 'Do not swear at all, either by heaven or by the earth, and let what you say be simply a yes or a no'?" Whereupon they all answered, singing in uni­son: "Euphemism, Euphemism, Good is bad, and bad is good, Poor is rich, and rich is poor, Beauty is ugly, and ugly is beauty, High is low, and low is high, Darkness is ligl1t, and light is dark, Yes is no, and no is yes." 
Then Lucifer arose, saying, "Again you have heard that it is said 'Thou shall not commit adultery, even he who looks at a woman with lust has already committed adultery'?" And Darkness, who is Ught, answered, saying, "If your right eye causes you to lust after Viet­nam, let your left eye not fail to eye Afghanis· tan. And ifyour right hand tingles with lust for Grenada let your left hand not fail to reach for Nicaragua. For it is better to enjoy the riches than the dearth oflife." 
Then Lucifer said to the crowds, "You are the salt and pepper of this earth. Therefore pray then like this: 'Our Fathers who art in hell, Hallowed be your names. Your kingdoms come, Your wills be done, On earth as it is in hell. Give us this day our daily evils; And don't do us any good, As we don't do any; And lead us into temptation, And deliver us from good­ness For yours are the kingdoms, And the powers and all glory."' 
And when Lucifer and his cohorts had finished these sayings, the masses rejoiced at their teachings, for they taught them as ones who had authority and not like)urgen did. 
jurgen Brauer is an economics graduate student and a regular viewpoint columnist. 

Got an opinion? Share it. 
Viewpoint would like to bearfrom you. Ifyou would like to respond to something you've read in The Observer, why no{ write a letter to the editor. Letters should be well-written, typed, no more than 250 words in length and must bear the signature ofthe author. Letters which are not signed by the author will not be pub­lished. 
But letters are not the only way to voice your opinion in The Observer, Viewpoint also accepts guest columns. Guest columns should be well-written, typed, no more than 500 words in length and must bear the signature of the author. A guest column, unlike letter to the editor, should not be a direct response to another editorial. 
Both guest columns and letters to the editor can be mailed to The Observer, P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556, or delivered to either our Notre Dame office in LaFortune Student Center or our Saint Mary's office in Haggar College Center. Please includeyour telephone number. 
The Observer reserves the right to edit all material submitted to the Viewpoint departmentfor publication. 

Tuesday, February 19, 1985-page 7 
ViewP-oint 
P.O. Box Q 
HPC speaks out on the recent campaign events 
DearEditor: 
As members ofthe Hall Presidents' Council, we consider ourselves as direct representa­tives of the student body. Every student is represented equally by an elected official, in­cluding off-campus residents. 
We believe the recent Student Senate deci­
sion  concerning  the  eligibility  of  the  
Browne-Cahill  ticket  to  be  extremely  un­ 
representative ofstudent sentiment.  

Among the things we find reprehensible are the lack ofaccountability through the use ofa secret ballot and the inability of the senate to enforce its own rules. 
We fully support OBUD in its vehement protest and we commend them for their con­sistent enforcement and responsible sense of judgment. 
On behalfofthe student body, we demand a formal and public explanation of the senate's actions. It is unfair that the students be kept uninformed on a subject in which they play so integral a role. 
In addition, we find this incident indicative of deeper problems within the structure of student government. We are anxious to cooperate immediately with the existing stu­dent government reconstruction committee in the reorganization of student government, particularly the senate. 
HallPresidents' Council 
Browne and Cahill should be expelled 
DearEditor: 
As a concerned student I feel compelled to make the following statement. Pat Browne and)oanie Cahill should be expelled from the University. They are a disgrace to the Univer­sity and to the high moral standards it supposes to have. Not only were their actions immoral and unethical, but they were an in­sult to the electoral process and student gov­ernment. Are we to believe that this type of conduct would be allowed on University ex­ams? Yet, the University seems to be tolerating cheating in student elections. I realize, however, that the administration does not have the guts to act against these cheaters. This is why it is important for the students to move. 
If this election had taken place in the "real world," both Browne and Cahill would have been indicted on several counts of election 
fraud. Are these the type of people we want 
representing the University in the "real 
world?" I know I would not want to be identi­
fied with either candidate. 
Chris Tayback's description of the Student 
Senate's actions as "incredibly wimpy" is an 
understatement. The senate had the chance to 
show the student body that student govern­
ment does work. They blew their chance and 
now it is up to the students. We must pressure 
the senate to remove both Browne and Cahill 
from the senate and bar them from holding 
any other positions in student government. 
They are a disgrace to student government 
and the student body. Let's get together and 
show the candidates that Notre Dame won't 
accept cheaters. 
Frank Andreano HowardHall 
Funai seeks to force new SBP-SBVP election 
DearEditor: 
After speaking with innumerable members 
of the student body, I have decided to insti­
tute procedures leading to a recall of the SBP­
SBVP election. 
This action will result in much speculation, 
especially on the part of The Observer. I am 
merely acting as a concerned student. I have 
no hope ofpersonal gain through this action. 
I will neither seek nor accept a position 
from any of the SBP-SBVP candidates. 
I have a two-fold reason for taking this ac­
tion. First, I believe that the student body was 
given no real choice in this election. I cannot 
understand why the Student Senate would 
bother to reinstate Pat Browne in the race. 
The restrictions placed on his campaign were 
ludicrous, almost as ludicrous as the in­
finitesimal spending limits. Second, I am tired 
oflistening to people complain about student 
government. I believe it is the one positive 
force affecting student life. If I am successful 
in getting a new election, I urge all motivated, 
not politically ambitious, students to run for 
office. 
Also, I have no qualms with the election of 
Bill Healy. I simply believe that the election 
returns do not constutute a mandate from the 
student body. If Healy believes he has been 
chosen as a campus leader based on only 24.3 
percent of student support, he should 
welcome a recall in order to legitimize his 
election. 
Student Senate decision reinforces stereotype 
DearEditor: 
Much has been written over the past couple of weeks concerning the effectiveness of Notre Dame's student government. Off­campus representative Javier Oliva has said "Student government is laughed at -many people don't take it seriously." Senator Pat Browne adds, "Student government is not respected." The events of the past weekend concerning the Browne-Cahill reinstatement are a major reason why this organization is laughed at and not respected. 
The preamble of the University rules and regulations in du Lac states, "Ifscholars are to dwell together in peace, they will have to live under law." Later it adds "some actions are ob­viously inconsistent with the ideals of this community." It appears that the actions of both Browne and Cahill certainly fit this description. 
With this in mind, it is incomprehensible how anyone on the Student Senate could have voted to reinstate Browne as a student body presidential candidate and still maintain any level of personal integrity. As representatives of this student body, there must be a point when ethical and moral values must be placed before personal friendship. As a witness to the actions taken at Sunday's meeting, it seems clear that the students sitting on the senate were not representing the student body but instead voted only for their own personal choice. 
I asked my student senator, Paul Healy, why he voted to reinstate Browne, and he claimed that the rule that was broken was not that bad. Healy, how does one measure the intrinsic qualities ofa rule? Rules do not have a good or a bad. The fact is that Browne blatantly and knowingly violated the rules established by the senate, and for this he deserves to be pun­ished. Not only should Browne and Cahill have been disqualified from this election, but they should be prohibited from further partic­ipation in student government in any way, shape or form. 
In announcing their decision the senate seemed to imply that by reinstating the Browne/Cahill ticket the students should decide this issue. This, however, is not the case at all. Regardless of the outcome of the election, the senate has made a horrendous mistake in condoning this action. Further­more, the actions of OBUD, the Junior Class, Ray Wise and Chris Tayback deserve to be commended for standing up to a set of ex­pected morals. Finally, the senate does not need less of these people, as Rob Bertino claims, but actually seventeen more. Each of the remaining members of this senate should take a long hard look at what they represent. 

Francis W. Harris St. Edward'sHall 

Broussard challenges Observer news story 
DearEditor: 
A conspiracy?Premeditation?No way. Nei­
ther the Browne-Cahill ticket nor I engaged in 
either. At no time before or during the cam­
paign did we "sit down" and plan to win the 
election in an unethical manner. Many hours 
were spent preparing the campaign -writing 
the platform, creating the signs and recruiting 
volunteers to participate in the campaign. No 
time, not even a second, was spent on trying 
to deceive the Notre Dame students. True, 
rules were broken, but they were not broken 
intentionally. 
However, on Monday, Feb. 11, the headline article of The Observer indicted Pat Browne, )oanie Cahill and myselfin a so-called conspir­acy "to cheat by not reporting all campaign expenses in advance." The article continued to say the act was "premeditated. It was not done in the heat ofthe moment." 
This article, written by Mike Millen, is an example ofpoor journalistic practice. First, it seems to me that secondhand news is usually not that accurate. The quote above was from the Obudsman Director, Henry Sienkiewicz, who supposedly was quoting a confession of )oanie Cahill's on the previously mentioned matter. When an article is written that con­tains perjurious charges against one party, it would be a good practice in the future to question all those being charged. I question why I never was interviewed about the whole matter, before having my reputation defamed in the article. I was never asked to refute the Obudsman director's charge, which I would have. 
No conspiracy existed in this election. It is sad that people think so. 
Lee Broussard NotreDame student 

Editor's Note: Henry Sienkiewicz, Om­budsman Director, said joanie Cahill di­rectly admitted to him of "conspiring to cheat in advance." 
Campus comments: What impresses you most about Notre Dame? 
Photos by Paul Pahoresky 




Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 

Editor-in-Chief. . . __ Bob Vonderheide Business Manager. ...... _... Dave Taiclet Managing Editor _. Mark Worscheh Controller . _Dave Stephenitch 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the News Editor . . _Sarah Hamilton Advertising Manager. . . ... Anne Culligan University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Editor _ _.... _ . Dan McCullough Circulation Manager_ . _Jeff O'Neill reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as Saint Mary's Editor .... _Anne Monastyrski Systems Manager . ....... Mark B. Johnson accurately and as objectively as possible_ Unsigned editorials represent the opinion Sports Ed1tor. Michael Sullivan Production Manager. ........ Chris Bowler of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column V1ewpomt Editor _ _Dave Grote Project Manager . . ... Amy Stephan present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the Features Editor . _ _.. Mary Healy community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Photo Editor_ .. Pete Laches Founded November 3, 1966 is encouraged. 

Accent 



Bob Vonderheide 
features staff writer 
It had been two years since the last time he 
did this. The first patient, Barney Clark, had 
survived for while, but not much longer than 
calves had lived in the lab. 
Had anything been learned? Was it worth 
the expense just to allow a person to live a 
few more months. maybe years tied to an air 
compressor the size ofa small refrigerator? 
Dr. William DeVries wasn't sure himself. 
Clark's I 12-day struggle with tho artificial 
heart had brought many disappointments: 
one of the valves had broken, more surgery 
had been required and the artificial heart had 
pumped too much blood to the brain. 
· But now in November of 1984, he once 
again held the future of the artificial-heart 
program in his hand: a redesigned version of 
theJarvik-7 heart with new valves that would 
better endure the stress of repeated motions. 
And to he sure, things were different this 
time. His patient, William Schroeder, was 
nine years younger and in better physical 
shape. (Clark almost died on the operating 
table.) Lessons learned from Clark enabled 
some fine tuning of the Jarvik-7. And DeVries 
-in another city (louisville) at another 
hospital ( Humana Hospital Audubon)-felt 
freer to "do what I'm supposed to be doing.' 
The word was out that Humana, a for-profit 
corporation, would pay for 100 artificial­
heart implants, a promise that finally con­
vinced DeVries to leave the University of 
Utah and the austere world ofacademic 
medicine. 
DeVries was frustrated that the University of Utah had dragged its feet on the artificial­heart program, even refusing to approve a second implantation. "By striking when the iron was hot," he told Dr. Lawrence Altman for a New York Times article, "we would have been able to answer a lot ofquestions that in a sense people had to stop and think over again, questions about the costs and whether society could handle the artificial heart." 
The questions remained when Schroeder (pronounced SHRAY-der) was brought to the operating room early Sunday morning, Nov. 
25. But after 6. 5 hours ofsurgery, the answer in part had been resolved: there would be more implantations. Schroeder had passed with flying colors and was recovering better than expected. 
In an Interview a week later, Schroeder spoke with a strong voice, gestured often and kidded with DeVries that a beer would certainly help his recovery. DeVries later acquiesced with a Coors. 
"I think the snowball's started and I don't think anybody can stop it," DeVries, 40, told the Washington Post. "A success dispels the critics and naysayers." 
Sunday, the snowball picked up momen­tum as Murray P. Haydon became the third person in history to receive a permanent artificial heart, only three months after Schroeder's operation. 
Doctors said yesterday that Haydon is adjusting so well that they have turned up the pulse of the artificial heart, taken him off a respirator and expect soon to have him sipping clear fluids. 
"Mr. Haydon's condition is so good it's frightening," said Dr. Allan Lansing, chairman of Humana Heart Institute International. 
Schroeder, however, is having some problems. It was first hoped that Schroeder could leave the hospital by Christmas, then it was Valentine's Day. Shortly after the im­plantation, Schroeder suffered three strokes, caused most likely by blood clots which formed around the artificial heart and traveled to his brain. The stroke permanently 
The heart 
of plastic 
Surgeon DeVries going strong 
impaired his speech and some short-term 
memory, but even worse it crushed his 
much-publicized "zest for life.'' 
Through January, Schroeder regained 
strength and his optimistic outlook, but in 
the last two weeks his body temperature has 
been fluctuating wildly, reaching as high as 
I05 degrees. Doctors now suspect that a 
particular drug prescribed to prevent brain 
seizures has been causing the problem. 
Though the implant operation was nearly 
perfect, Schroeder's troubles began hours 
alter the surgery when a suture on the aorta 
ruptured and spilled eight pints ofblood into 
his chest. 
DeVries opened Schroeder's chest through 
the same incision he had made earlier in the 
day, and began checking each anatomical 
area for evidence of bleeding. All areas 
looked clear. 
He then wrapped his finger around the 
part ofaortic he could not see, and the 
bleeding stopped. He tried to examine the 
area with a dental mirror, but he couldn't 
identify a bleeding point. "So I packed it with 
gclfoam, held it with my finger for I 0 
minutes, and the bleeding stopped," DeVries 
told Altman. 
The second operation upset some mem­
bers ofSchroeder's family, who for first time 
questioned the quality oflife that an artificial 
heart can provide. But DeVries had warned 
them. In fact, before the operation, 
Schroeder was asked twice to read and sign a 
consent form detailing the dangers and the 
experimental nature of the operation. 
But the quality-of-life issue remains the 
major criticism levied against the artificial­
heart program. Is it ethical, critics ask, to pull 
a desperate man from death and promise him 
life tied to an air compressor? 
DeVries says such criticism is in the 
"intellectual dark ages.'' This is an experi­
ment, he says, and Schroeder and Haydon 
understand that. Michael Hess, professor of 
internal medicine at the Medical College of 
Virginia agrees: "Only God knows when the 
future is in this profession, but you have to 
start somewhere.'' 
And in 1984, with the controversy of Utah 
behind him, DeVries was ready to start for 
real. The son ofa ship's doctor who was 
killed in World War II, DeVries came to Utah 
with his mother, a nurse, and was raised a 
Morman. He attended the University ofUtah 
Medical School, where in 1967 he heard Dr. 
Willem Kolff give a lecture on the new 
artificial kidney he had invented. 
The idea struck DeVries as "a natural thing, 
making things that work better than the 
diseased part. After the lecture, I said, 'I'd like 
to work for you.' He said, 'What's your name?' 
and when I told him, he said, 'That's a good 
Dutch name.' " 
After working nine years at Duke Univer­
siry Medical Center, he returned to Utah as 
the chairman ofcardiovascular and thoracic 
surgery where Kolff had turned his research 
attention to the artificial heart. DeVries was 
ready to be the surgeon. "I said I'd like to put 
this in a human," DeVries told Newsweek in 
1982. "Dr. Kolffsaid, 'Go ahead and do it.'" 
DeVries practiced one day each week doing the operation on animals, and when it came time for a human recipient, the surgeon l><:gan steering himselfout of the limelight. One patient who was rejected for the opera­tion threatened to die on the hospital steps, ­and DeVries feared his reputation would suffer. 
"You lose credibility Ifyou're too well 
known," he said. "I could spend all my life 
doing PR work." 
Friends describe DeVries as a quiet man ·with a dry sense ofhumor. And he is a dedi­
cated doctor who despises the arrogance 
which he says many surgeons bring into the 
operating room. 
He often comes to the hospital on Sunday to cheer up depressed patients. Occasion­ally, he changes dressings, typically a nurse's responsibility. "Yeah, people try to put you on a pedestal, but you're just a regular person," he told The Washington Post. "Oh, you get tired ofsigning cups in McDonald's, but you don't order people around and stuff like that." 
Barney Clark's wife, Una Loy, remembers DeVries as a quiet, dedicated surgeon. "I've seen him come into the intensive care unit with his shirttail hanging out, hair rumpled, sleepy-eyed, not having had very much rest and sort ofliving in the hospital." 

Louisville cardiologist Dr. Robert Goodin says DeVries' unassuming character often hides the intense care he has for his patients. One weekend morning, shortly after DeVries had arrived in louisville, the hospital's paging system called an emergency for one of Goodin's patients. 
"When I arrived (at the cardiac unit), Bill DeVries was up over this patient, all 6-foot-5 of him, doing CPR," Goodin recalls. "Here he is in a totally strange hospital. He has no idea ifit was his patient-he really didn't ask any questions -nor did he care. That says a lot about a person." 
But once in Louisville, DeVries has had to keep a higher profile. Humana's savvy public relations staffsees the artificial-heart pro­gram as a gold mine, and has pushed its hero, DeVries, into the daily headlines and nightly news. Last month, DeVries even taped a Meet-the-Press-style show with a panel of local news reporters, an unusual move for a surgeon. 

The idea for an artificial heart, however, is not new to medicine. During the 1950s at the Cleveland Clinic, Kolffhimselfwas able to keep dogs alive for about 90 minutes using a crude artificial heart. In 1969, Dr. Denton Cooley of the Texas Heart Institute first installed an artificial heart in a human. It kept the patient alive for 64 hours until a natural heart became available for transplantation. 
In 1981 DeVries received permission from the-federal Food and Drug Administration to implant a permanent artificial heart in patients who had no other choice. A year later, Barney Clark set the world of the artificial heart in motion. 
And it's a world that has been much criticized. Pioneer heart surgeon Dr. Norman Shumay has called the device a "crude device with no future." 
The artificial heart "shocks the hell out of the patient," he told The New York Times last year, "tears up the valves, beats up the kidneys and other organs and can serve at best as a crude intermediary device while the patient is waiting for a heart donor. 
"I don't think the artificial heart has any future," Shumway said. 
But yesterday, an Indianapolis surgeon who helped develop one type of mechanical heart, said the artificial heart "has to be the answer" to failed human hearts. Dr. Harris Shumacker said that problems with rejection, infection and shortages have prevented adequate treatment ofsevere heart illnesses. 

Much work remains, however. Dr. Robert Jarvik, the Utah bioengineer who invented theJarvik-7, said more research is needed before the artificial heart moves out ofthe experimental stage. Presently, he said, "it's not very likely these people will die of cancer." 
"Ifthe artificial heart is ever to achieve its objective, it must be more than a pump," Jarvik has written. "It must also be more than functional, reliable and dependable. 
"It must be forgettable."

r 
Tuesday, February 19, 1985-page 8-9 
Haydon's operation 
Surgeons at Humana Hospital in Louis­ville, Ky., (far left) operate on Murray Haydon early Sunday morning to im­plant an artificial heart (top left). It was only the third time the operation hadbeen performed on a human patient. Although 
Haydon (middle) was a bedridden pa­tient, he was the most healthyperson yet to receive the heart. 
Dr. William DeVries (bottom) explains the opera­tion at a news con­ference. 
Associated 
Press 
photos 

1_. 

The Jarvik · 7 artificial heart is a plastic and titanium assembly roughly the size and weight ofthe human heart. 
It consists of two bell-shaped polyurethane pumps that replace the two ventricles, or main pumping chambers, of the human heart. 
The wide end ofeach pump is covered with a flexible diaphragm that is filled with compressed air to expel blood from the chamber and is emptied to draw blood into the chamber. 
Each diaphragm is connected by a flexible plastic tube to an external drive unit, either a 323-pound air compressor, or the smaller, portable Heimes drive. 
The right pump, or ventricle, receives oxygen-depleted blood from the body and pumps it to the lungs. The left ventricle receives blood from the lungs and pumps it back to the body. 
These are the same functions performed by the left and right ventricles of the human heart. 
When the human heart is removed before the implantation of theJarvik 7 heart, parts of the atria, or upper pumping chambers of the heart, are left in place. 
Dacron "cuffs," or connectors, are sewn to the remaining portions ofeach atrium. The artificial heart is then snapped on to the cuffs. 
The air console controls the rate at which 

Chicago Tribune Graphic by Ray Shlemon 
the diaphragms compress, which in turn becomes the pulse ofpatient. Although the ventricles can beat up to 900 times per minute, they usually are kept beating at about 90 to 100 beats a minute, the average rate of a normal human heart. 
One advantage of the artificial heart is that the body does not reject the device. In donor heart transplants, the recipient's immunology system often refuses to interact with the foreign tissue. 
But unlike a donor heart, the jarvik-7 is prone to forming blod clots that can travel to the brain and cause strokes. In order to overcome the problem, the material chosen for the diaphragm was Biomer, a medical grade of Lycra, which is an elastic material used in girdles and bras. 
The valves ofthe jarvik-7 have also been redesigned since the first implantation in 1982. The new artificial heart contains Medtronic-Hall valves which resist fatigue stress much better. 
Two years ago, Dr. Robertjarvik, a 40-year­old Utah bioengineer, was named Inventor of the Year by the Intellectual Property Owners, Inc., a trade association ofpatent holders. Ironically, at that time, jarvik a tinkerer and dreamer who could not get into an American medical school on his first try, held no patents for his artificial heart. 
Does the success dispel the critics and naysayers? 
BobVonderheide 
· features staffwriter 

When news broke last November that William Schroeder, a retired government worker from jasper, Ind., had successfully received an artificial heart, Newsweek magazine was preparing a cover story on the thousands starving in Ethiopia. 
The sharp contrast served as an eerie backdrop for what would become an intense debate about the extraordinary means ofartificial hearts. How could you justify spending S250,000 on one human life, while thousands ofAfricans starved to death because the money was not there to help feed them? 
Said Kenneth Vauz, professor of medical ethics at the University of Illinois: "We are going to have to decide as a society what we want from our biomedical projects. What kind ofperson are we seeking to create? An artificial person? 
"We are going to have to temper our ambitions and learn to accept the inevitability ofdisease, the inevitability ofdeath itself." 
Colorado Governor Richard Lumm agreed. "Hightech medicine is really the Faustian bargain, where for a few extra days oflife, we have to pay the price that could bankrupt the country." 
Last year, Lumm stated his posi­tion even more tartly. "We' -:t got a duty to die and get out ofthe way with all ofour machines and artifi­cial hearts." 
The words are strong but the point is there: the costs of the artifi­cial heart may be too high right now and the benefits too low. It is estimated that 50,000 people each year could benefit from an artificial or transplanted heart. Ifeach opera­tion cost about S150,000 (Schroeder's bill will be about 
$250,000), the total annual cost would be a startling $7.5 billion. 
An editorial in the journal America last year criticized the artificial-heart program. "Practically speaking, the money would be better spent on problems more universal and more pressing -in providing basic medical services for the poor, for instance, or in sup­porting basic research for the pre­vention ofthe disease," the journal said. 
"I don't understand the fascina­tion with these absurd, bizarre experiments," said Duke moral theologist Harmon Smith. "We have babies born every day in the U.S. who are brain-damaged because of malnutrition. It is a serious indict­ment ofour society." 
Critics argue that hooking up an artificial heart after disease has set in is a "cure" that's too little too late. 
"The three major breakthroughs (in cardiac care over the next 1 5 years) are going to be prevention, prevention and prevention," said Dr. Thomas Ryan, president ofthe American Heart Association. 
One major breakthrough will probably be the fine-tuning ofdrugs that dissolve plaque deposits on arteries, a project that could make good use ofthe S20 million Humana Hospital Inc. plans to spend on artificial heart operations. Another technique is a catheter whose tip can expand within an artery, compressing the plaque against the wall. 
But there is only so much money to go around, and presently the money is at Humana. "I think the snowball's started and I don't think anybody can stop it now," Dr. William DeVries told the Washing­ton Post in December. DeVries, who performed Schroeder's sur­gery, is the only doctor approved by the federal government to im­plant an artificial heart. 
In the end, someone will have to pay, and AlbertJonsen, a professor ofbioethics at the University of California, San Francisco, says it will be the government. "Once these expensive operations are available, is it fair to people who can't afford them that they should die while those who can afford them live? 
That's why the federal government will be pulled in," he said. 
"We have never sold seats on a lifeboat," said Morris Abram, former chairman ofthe President's com­mission on medical ethics. "And I don't think we are willing to start now." 
Doctors at Humana Hospital Audubon and others in the medical world strongly defend the artificial­heart program. 
"Every ethical standard certainly is being met here," said Dr. Allan Lansing, director ofthe Humana team. "One ofthe hardest things to make a judgment against would be a patient who is living, doing well, and would not have been alive otherwise." 
DeVries has said that critics ofthe artificial heart are living in "the intellectual dark ages." 
"We have to find out ifit works and then (debate) what it costs," he said. Injanuary, after the relative success ofSchroeder, DeVries called for a national committee to study the ethical implications of the artificial heart. 
Dr. Denton Cooley, the Houston surgeon who implanted a tempo­rary artificial heart in 1969, argues that regardless of the artificial heart's success, "spinoff's from that type ofresearch would be invalua­ble." 
DeVries is quick to point out that 

----------------------------------------------------------------......1!1111• 
penicillin was discovered as a by­product ofa failed experiment. 
Many standard medical procedures were once considered extravagant. The coronary-bypass operations and the cardiac pacemaker are two examples. And 20 years ago, the artificial kidney was criticized in the Annals ofInter­nal Medicine; the argument is ironi­cally familiar: "How much money should be diverted by society into an expensive procedure that can only deal with a very small fraction ofpotentially suitable patients?" 
Currently, more than 70,000 patients owe their lives to the kid­ney machine. 
Perhaps the artificial heart will end up a failed idea. But that's how science progresses: through ex­perimentation. And while DeVries stresses the experimental nature of his work, he argues that Clark, Schroeder and Haydon are far more than mere guinea pigs. 
"A success dispels critics and naysayers," DeVries said. 
In the end, however, the artificial-heart program is a scarce resource that must be allocated, a scenario that defines politics itself. And once politics enters the picture -and it certainly has already -ethi­cal questions become harder to define. It may never be decided if man should be playing with what man cannot live without.
..-!llllll-----.......',.'•\ .. 

-


Tuesday, February 19, 1985-page 10
Accent 

'Mischief:' Growing up in a meaningless film 
Anne Garibaldi 
Movie review 

"M ischkf' is a typical teenage 
movie about growing up. 
The film is full of the old conflicts of 
"the new kid in town," rich vs. 
poor, the Fonzi type vs. the Richie 
Cunningham type, and parents vs. 
children. The makers of"Mischief' 
could have gone deeper into any 
one of these themes, but instead 
they only brushed upon them, 
resulting in a very shallow film. 
It is the story of two high school 
seniors: Jonathan, a clutzy wimp 
played by Doug McKeon, and Gene, 
a tough and streetwise "new kid in 
town" played by Cris Nash. The 
movie is set in Nelsonville, Ohio 
(population 5,000). The year is 
1956, a time when America's value 
system is heginning to change. 
The theme of" Mischief' is what 
is on the mind of most teenage 
boys: girls. gmwit.g up, and 
friendship. Gent· has a lot to teach 
Jonathan about all of these, espe­
cially girls. because Jonathan has 
severe girl problems. Jonathan's love in life is the beautiful Marilyn 
(Kelly Preston), every high school 
boy's dream girl. The only blot on Jonathan's dream is that she 
doesn't know he exists. There are several amusing scenes where Jonathan tries to impress her, but only succeeds in making a fool of himself Gene bets he can change all of that. IfJonathan follows his advice, Jonathan can have Marilyn in hi~ arms, and elsewhere, in no 
time. 
Mt·anwhile, Gene has a girl prob­lem ofhis own. The girl he likes, Bunny (Catherine Mary Stewart), is the "possession" of the rich, mean, and viscious Kenny ( D.W. Brown). Gene is in a much better position than .Jonathan; Bunny likes him. Of course, Kenny isn't all that crazy about the idea ofGene and Bunny getting together, and he shows it by trying to get back at Gene every chance he can. Naturally the good guy always wins. 
flow ahout .Jonath.wt Gene's addu:~ finally succeed~ in helping Jonathan in his relationship with Marilyn. The only thing wrong now is that he realizes Marilyn isn't what he really wants. His attraction for her could never become the basis for a strong relationship. Never fear. There is a third girl in this story, the girl with glasses and braces who becomes a beauty overnight. 
All in all, the storyline of "Mischief' was worn out and predictable. In fact, I would rate it on the South Bend scale: nine below, with windchill. On the other hand, the acting was promising. The actors and actresses probably have a bright future ahead ofthem. It's unfortunate that they must start in a meaningless film like "Mischief." 
There were only two other posi­tive aspects to the film. One was the background music coordinated by Barry De Vorzon. If you like '50s music, you'll enjoy listening to the strains of Fats Domino's "Blueberry Hill" and other old favorites. The other positive aspect was the cos­tuming. It is amazing to see how much today's fashions resemble the styles ofthe '50s. 
You should see "Mischief' only if you have nothing better to do. It provides a mindless break from campus life, and not much more. 


An awkward moment from the movie "Mischief" 
Robust songs flavor 'Ain't Misbehavin' 
Mike O'Hagan 
Theater review 



I
t may not be coincidence that the 
first break in this February cold ~nap was accompanied by the arri­val ofthe Tony Award Winning Broadway Musical "Ain't Mis­behavin." For two hours on Sunday night Saint Mary's O'Laughlin auditorium echoed with the hop­ping sounds of jazz great Thomas 'Fats' Walker. The depth and spirit which pervade the music of Walker,a father of modern jazz, was expressed superbly by the cast and shared by everyone at the perfor­mance. 
The show,a Daedulus Production of New York, was a testimony to the vitality of the old Harlem nightclubs 
· which gave birth to the jazz we now know.Each of the twenty-two num­bers performed by this prestigious cast offered up a piece of the excite­ment and emotion which sym­bolized the essence of the Jazz Age. 
The musical masterfully defines the conflict between a country which was just beginning to realize its own potential and the people within the country who knew they would never have the opportunity to appreciate those benefits. 
Songs such as CharlesJohnson's "Fat and Grey" captured the country's reckless,upbeat feelings while Harry Brook's "Black and Blue" embodied the despair ofthe disadvantaged. 
Within these two songs (and the entire production) runs a common, sincere thread ofemotions. They combine the carefree, loose desires of people looking for a way to ex­hibit their happiness and love with the fears and nervous behavior of 
those trying escape or deny their 
problems. 

Songs like Walker's "The Joint is Jumpin", the closing number ofAct one and Kevin Chatham's rousing redition of"Your Feels Too Big" celebrated the diSt·overy of new sound combinations which excited a whole generation of music lovers. These robust songs still inspire audiences with their exciting tempos and biting lyrics. 
The plight ofan oppressed and down people resound in bitter songs such as "Lookin' Good But Feelin' Bad" and "The Vipers Drag." Both numbers sing of the problems facing who have to fool themselves about luck and the fate of the unfor­tunate masses who are no longer able to do so. These songs talk of the pretense which is com­monplace in their lives and ofthe efforts they make to forget that phoniness. 
However, present in both types ofsong is that upbeat, positive influence which made jazz the success it is today. 
The cast managed to create on stage an excellent example of the freedom and brotherhood which prevailed in the fanciful Harlem clubs of the 1920s.The rich voice of Charonne Cox contrasted smoothly wjth the mellow rhthym oflead vocal Kevin Chatham and created a plesant return to the jazz era.And it was this easy-going,friendly attitude of the cast which relaxed the audi­ence and encouraged them to sit back and enjoy a fine taste of his­wry. 
-----~--------------------­

Sports Briefs 
The Notre Dame Rowing Club will be 
meeting today at 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theatre. All members should attend and bring their checkbooks. A mandatory meeting for men's team members will follow-The Observer 
The SMC varsity softball team will be holding tryouts beginning today from 3:30p.m. to 5:30p.m. Anyone who is interested may report to the Angela Athletic Facility for practice. ­The Observer 
Gerry Faust will be speaking at an organizational meeting for potential freshman athletic managers today at 6:30p.m. in the football auditorium at the ACC. All interested freshmen are invited to attend. For more information, call the Student Managers Organiza­tion at 239-6482. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Rugby Club will hotd an organizational meeting Thursday at 9:30p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theatre. No experience or athletic ability is required. For more in­formation, call Clarke at 277-7561 or Steve at 272-0828. The Observer 
"Speaking of Sports" will feature an open phone line when it airs tonightat 9 p.m. on WVA AM-64. Listeners may ask questions or voice their opinions by calling cohosts Chuck Freeby and Kevin Herbert at 239-6400.-The Observer 
Aracquetball tournamentis being held by NVA for all members ofthe student body, faculty and staff. There will be three divisions: one for intermediate players, one for advanced players and one for mixed doubles teams. The deadline for entries is tomorrow. For more information, call the NVA office at 239-6100.­The Observer 
Irish 
continuedfrom page 16 
go up by 20 and we could coast," said Phelps. "But they scored the first six point because they hustled and it became a different game." 
After pulling within five with 
17:43 left, Loyola refused to let the Irish pull away. The lead did stretch to 10, 54-44, as Ken Barlow scored six of his team-high 14 points in a span of two-and-a-half minutes, but the Greyhounds were able to score 16 of the last 23 points to put them­selves in position to win. 
"We came out flat in the second half, something we couldn't afford to do," said Dolan. "Once their shots started falling, they started to get confidence." 
Bodnar discusses knee injuries in ACC tonight 
Knee injuries are not just a problem for football and basket• ball players. They are very com­mon among athletes and non-athletes alike. 
Dr. Leslie M. Bodnar, the senior consultant of the Notre Dame Sports Medicine Program, will present a lecture tonight about injuries to the knee. He will show the various causes of knee problems and some of the ways to prevent injuries. 
The lecture will be held in the ACC Football Auditorium at 7 
p.m. All are invited to attend the event for which there is no charge. 

Tuesday, February 19, 1985-page 11 
When Reveley picked up a deflected Barlow pass and drove un­contested for a layup to bring Loyola within one with 43 seconds left. After Amatucci called his last timeout, Dolan proceeded to throw the ball away as the Irish tried to bring the ball up court against a Loyola press. 
Amatucci inserted Gately back into the lineup because of his outside shooting, and it was Gately who took the shot with 16 seconds on the clock. His shot bounced off the rim, but Carter was able to grab the rebound and give the Greyhounds another chance. 
This time it was guard Mo Hicks that took the shot, a short jumper from the lane, but it too bounced away. Fortunately for Loyola, it bounced right off a Notre Dame player and out of bounds with five seconds left. Gately followed with his miss, Carter failed on the tip, and Notre Dame breathed a sigh ofrelief. 

lf it looked like Phelps and his players were looking ahead to the rest of the week Fordham (Wednesday) and Brigham Young (Saturday), it is not surprising. They were. 
"I didn't want to wear us ou tonight," admitted Phelps. "I didn' want to press for 40 minutes. I didn' want to play people 40 minutes We're playing a team Wednesday that will hold the ball on us if they get ahead, so it was important not to waste too much energy." 
But for the width of a rim, Phelps might have been kicking himself for underestimating the desire ofLoyola and its building program. 
Box Score 
Last Night's Results Notre Dame 61, Loyola (Md.) 60 
Loyola (Md.) (60) 
M FG·A FT·A R F P 
Carter 36 8-13 4-5 7 3 20 Reveley 32 3-8 4-4 9 3 10 Lee 23 2-5 0-0 2 4 4 Gormley 25 0-4 0-0 3 1 0 Gatley 27 4-12 3-3 4 3 11 Tubman 3 0-0 0-0000 Hicks 28 4-12 0-0 5 0 8 Hill 21 3-7 1-2 3 4 7 Meyers 5 0-1 0-0 1 0 0 200 24-62 12-14 34 18 60 
FG Pet. -.387. FT Pet. .857. Team rebounds -3. Turnovers -13. Assists -8 (Hicks 4). Technicals-none. 
Notre Dame (61) 

M FG·A FT·A  R  F  P  
Barlow  32  7-15  0-0  5  3  14  
Royal  27  3-4  4-8  5  1  10  
Dolan  26  4-7  0-1  8  0  8  
Rivers  34  5-9  1-2  5  2  11  
Price  16  3-8  0-0  2  2  6  
Hicks  14  1-2  0-2  2  1  2  

Spencer 93-40-0226 Beeuwsaert 92-30-0104 Duff 16 0-0 0-0 0 2 0 Peters 20-00-0010 Kempton 7 0-2 0-0 2 1 0 Voce 8 0-1 0-0 1 0 0 200 28·55 5-13 33 15 61 
FG Pet. -.509. FT Pet. -.385. Team rebounds -2. Turnovers -15. Assists -16 (Rivers4). Technicals-none. 
Halftime -Notre Dame 36, Loyola 25. Offi­cials-Randy Drury, Beuhl Roach. Dave Parry (all MAC). A-10,966. 
The Observer Notre Dame office. located on the third floor of Lafortune Student Center. accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until-! p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office. located on the third floor o Haggar College Center. accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m.. Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. either in person or by mail. Charge is 10 cents per five charac­
Classifieds 
ters per day. 
NOTICES 

TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8997 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 

EXPERT TYPING 2n-a534 AFTER 5:30 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
Typing/Word Processing -also copying. Call Andrea -9-11 pm or whenever. 2a3­3880. 
HELP! Need ride to NYC this weekend­can leave Thus. My mental stability depends on response' Will share usuals. Call Liz at 4084 or leave message at 4023. 
PROFESSIONAL TYPING: CAU TINA 232-8749 
I LOST/F<?UND I 
lost: pair of gloves and hat lett on bus after Chicago Trip please bring to Dr. Hofman 
LOST: black onyx ring and men·s razor out of yellow VW rabbit parked in lot east of stadium; call239-8423 with info. 
HELP LOST I lost my keys at the brar or somewhere behind P .W. My roommates doni like me and keep lock~ng me out. My rector her keys to my car so now I can"t drive. (H. V.day-A.G.D.) iF YOU SEE A SET OF KEYS for room 522 on a ring with a blue plastic hook call LOU at 411 Q-help 
~~~~~ ~~-~7~;.;~a;, ~~~g:~~hd~:~ ' 2/8. with $500 in leh pocket. If you just said, "Hey. wa1t a minule, there wasn't $500 when I took that 1acket!"" then either turn it into lost and found at the AD build­ing or call me at x2474. How much does K-Mart charge for a coat like this anyway? 
CRIMESTOPPER 213: Information leading to recovery of tan patagonia is this week"s topic. Succesful recovery will be rewarded with loss of guilt and chance to escape eternal damnation. Turn into NO lost and found and recieve your secret 
code. ······················ Lost: Thick gold link bracelet if found. PLEASE return to Katie 2919. Reward offered. 
FOUND KEYS BY LIBRARY 2-11-aS 
SET OF FIVE ON ONE RING FOUND: A set of car keys on a turquoise and black key chain on the lot between Walsh and Sorin on Sunday Feb. 17. 1985. To claim call Beth at 297a. 
AAAAAAAAAAH' l"m losing everything' 1 black gloves-Haggar 2/a (name inside) 2 blue back-pack only one strap 3 red plaid scar1-saturday night between PW and Dil­lon If you found any of these treasures Please call me (Giraffe. 1714) and you will be rewarded with total conciousness on your deathbed. 
lost: Double-strand gold bracelet at the Americana last Friday night. Spacial sen­timental value. If found. please call Kathy at 284-41aa. 
WANTED 
RIDE TO NEWARK NEEDED. CAN LEAVE ANY TIME AFTER THURSDAY MORNING, MARCH 14. WILL SHARE USUAL. CALL MIKE AT x1745. 
Need nders to Kanaes City for Spring Break. Call Tom x1479 
Need a qualified PIANIST to give lessons to an NO student Call Rob 1 076 
Need ride/riders to PURDUE this weekend' Call Sherri 4298 
Aida needed to Beloit Wisconsin leaving 2/22 and returning on 2/2411 is on the way to Madison. Please call Stacey 38a2 if you can tielp 
10 Part-time r-rchers wanted by Chicago publishing company. Have fun on campus while earning money ..•It can be done! call 312-266-4840 or write SARSAPARILLA, Ltd., 62 W. Huron, Chicago, IL 60610. 
Need ride to CHICAGO/Norih Shore this weekend.Can leave 11am Fri. Rob-­3305. 
Need ride to Chicago/Evanston area 2/21 p.m. will share expenses Pis. call Katex4272 
FOR SALE 
MAXELL TAPES!! XLII oo·s $25/case of 10 Ph.1596 or 124 Dillon 
FOR SALE: GREAT PARTY CAR 1970 OLDS 98 $400X-1768 
75 Chevy Monza: A/C, PIS. PIB. AlT. AM/FM. Dependable. good cond. $1000 272-3544 
TICKETS 
IF YOU GOT IT. I NEED IT !! I NEED FOUR (4) GA"S FOR THE BYU GAME. IF YOU CAN HELP THIS DAMSEL IN DISTRESS PLEASE CALL RAMONA AT 3714. 
PLEASE HELP! Need 4 or 5 BYU GA"s. Will Pay BIG BUCKS .Woody 11aa 
Need 2 GA"s for MARQUETTE call ROSS 1a97 
Sister Sent Blank Check. Need BYU or Wash. TIX. Call Bill2143 
Help' Need two GA"s for the Washington Basketball game. Call 3790 and ask for Bob. 
NEED BYU STUD TICKET CALL RAY 2066 
need 2 GAs to BYU call ELAINE 287a or 31a6 
HELP! Need 3 GA's or Student Tickets for the BYU Game. Will PAY BIG BUCKS!! PLEASE call Pete at 1170. 
NEED BYU TIX CALL 3846 
SAN FRANCISCO FLIGHT SPRING BRK Highest offer-Tim 11a7 
I PERSONALS I 
PREGNANT? NEED HELP? CALL 234­0363. 24 hour hotline/free pregnancy test available. WOMEN"S CARE CENTER 
.......................................... 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT "TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
BEST TIME-BEST VALUE: WHERE: DAYTONA BEACH!! WHEN: SPRING BREAK ·as. WHO: ALL ND/SMC STU­DENTS. CALL 239-5136 OR STOP BY SENIOR CLASS OFFICE. 1.5 LAFORTUNE. MON-FRI. 6-9pm. 
FORGET FLORIDA!! SKI ASPEN. COLORADO THIS SPRING BREAK. AND GET A TAN TOO. $3971NCLUDES TRANSPORTATION. 7 NIGHTS LODGING. AND A 6 DAY LIFT PASS TO AU FOUR OF ASPEN"S MOUNTAINS. IF INTERESTED CALL 3630 OR 3573. 
I have ""come on down,"" now where do you want me to go?-Tony A 
Bill Healy. Will you please take down your campa1gn s1gns now?? 
There once was a Calender boy Who held a secret pass1on and ;oy He loved a cheerleader. Boy. did he need her!!' For her he surely would die Her name is -----and his is July 
RIDE TO NEWARK NEEDED. CAN LEAVE ANY TIME AFTER THURSDAY MORNING, MARCH 14. WILL SHARE USUAL. CALL MIKE AT x1745. 
Need riders to Kanua City for Spring Break. Call Tom x1479 
DAVE GROTE: YOU SHOULD BE DEADI! 
Stephanovitch. This one·s for you! Happy 20th! Love. Dish. Magoo & Belle .............................. Can you see the real me? Can you? 
Thanks for taking the paper! 
Thanks for tak1ng the paper' 
Thanks for taking the paper' 
ASH WEDNESDAY MASS LYONS HALL 10:30 A TRIBUTE TO THE BEST­FR. STEVE 
""Get ashes. get chicks."" 
Hey. Gibson. LIVE YOUR DREAM! 
ATTENTION FORMER SECRET SWEETHEARTS FROM ST. ED"S: Whoever had ··chris from 212... please call 2316. Sorry I couldn"t make it for dinner--let"s make it for another day' 
Make it through the week with WVFI. Tuesday afternoons. tune in to GREG MASIELLO. MOLEMAN. AND MARK NEMEC .... BEAT THE SOUTH BEND BLUES WITH WVFI' 
NEED A GREAT FRIDAY NIGHT? WVFI. the alternative. and CBS RECORDS present a Video Dance Party --Friday. Feb. 22 at 9:00 in Chataqua. $1.00 per person. $1.50 per couple-­music. dancing. give-aways. WVFI AND CBS RECORDS BRING YOU FRIDAY NIGHT"S ALTERNATIVE! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY TOM RYAN! 

The Gang. Thomas Covenant will always have Zeus on his side. The TRUE BELIEVER will prevail. The ring is in the hands of another. hidden beyond your grasp. Zeus and Thomas-Safe 
HEY JOEl ARE YOU EXPERIENCED? THE ONLY DJS THAT MATTER! ARE CALL PAT AT 3318 OR 3317 OR DON AT 3573 CLEAR THE PURPLE HAZE OF OTHER CAMPUS DJS FROM YOUR MIND AND MAKE YOUR NEXT PARTY OR SYR THE ONLY DANCE THAT MATTERS! 
NEED RIDE TO DENVER FOR SPRING BREAK. OR RIDERS TO RENT A CAR. THINK OF THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN HIGH!! CALL JUSTINE 2633 
Carl. BE MY VALENTINE' An okie from Muskogee. 
Hey Ludy! Keep your eyes open all the time! Who can you trust? 
Theo Majors and other interested per­sona: Don't mlas Fr. Melloh'a talk on ""Lent: Our Journey to Easter""-Wed. Feb 20 at 7 pm In 341 O"Shag. 
B.A.H.M.-er'a regroup! Tonight"s coun­seling self-help group titled '"Creative ways to blow off your HTH."" Come along and share ideas and comments. Remem· ber: Men are pigs. Men are scum. 
You talk funny. You act wierd. and you wear a long coat. Now who fits that description? 
bridge players of Notre Dame utilize your expertise and/or luck two politically minded individuals are looking for a game. interested parties call 31a5 or 423a. 
Wanting to go on the SAB trip to Ft. Lauderdale but you don't have the cash! Call2a3-3815 and find out about a great discount! 
LOGAN VOLUNTEERS: Coming this weekend--CARNIVAL REC BE THERE OR8ESQUARE 
SPEND FRIDAY NIGHT DANCING WITH CBS RECORDS AND WVFI, THE ALTERNATIVE 
To my Mommy. You are S.P.E.C.I.A.L.• I Love You! Snoopy. 
Giusti 
It was four in the morning, 
And your hair was a mess; 
But one thing"s for certain. 
You play a mean game of chess' 

A ··socially adept"" admirer IF YOU GOT IT. I NEED IT !! I NEED 4 GA"S FOR THE BYU GAME. IF YOU CAN HELP THIS DAMSEL IN DISTRESS PLEASE CALL RAMONAAT3714. 
To the LOCOM executives: Thanks for the great ski trip. Love. The Girts From BP. 
Are you there gods? lt"s me. Mary' 
Being Gay is not a sin, but being Gay and lonely is. For information. write The Glly Society of ND/SMC, PO Box 194, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 
McCandless 3 and 4 corner! BE MY VALENTINE? 
LUDY my heart is yours. Morgan 
HAP P VB I RTH DA YLU CYMARG ARETPUTNAM 
20 ludy 20 ludy 20 ludy 20 ludy. Happ 
20th Ludy' 
B-P Frosh Go For 4 For 4 At Biherswee Love And Lotsa. Lotsa Kisses : LOCOM 
Brilliant conversationalist needs ride to NYC this weekend. can leave Thus. Also makes great roadtrip brownies ...call Liz at 4084. or leave message at 4023. 
ORIENTATION ··as needs you! Be an 
S.M.C. SURVIVAL LEADER. AMend one of two mandatory meetings: Wed. Feb. 
20. at 6:30pm Thurs. Feb. 21. at 6:30pm in the Haggar College Center Parlor 
Ron. Drew. Dave and the others on 
Howard-2, 
Thanks so much for Sat. night. We are 
so sorry about the mess' Next time. how 
about milk and cookies?! 
Annehe & Pahie 
Lucy and Susan. 
Thanks for being the best friends a per 
son could ever ask for. Let"s chalk las 
weekend up to experience. 
Annehe & Pattie ............ ···································· 
Ron. Drew. and all the guys in Howard who were so understanding and helpful with our friends. Thank you! ""the mobile unit"" Susan & Lucy 
x2474-Sue tells me that they are a bar 
gain at $39.99 
I really really need 2 or 3 GA"s to the March 3rd Washington game Christine (SMC)4084 
WELCOME TO THE PLEASURE DOME! 

--~-~~------­
-------------------~---­
Tuesday, February 19, 1985 -page 12
The Observer 

ND women's swim team captures second consecutive championship 
ByTHERON ROBERTS DeVine and Amy Darlington also freshman standout also placed won on Thursday with a time of second in the 400-yard individual
Sports Writer 

medley with a time of 4:54.73. She The 400-yard medley relay team teamed with P.). Amberg, Monica 8:10.6. 
ST. LOUIS-Even though the Notre of Byrne, Cochiolo, DeVine and Dar­Walker and Boss to finish in second
Dame women's swim team missed position in the 200-yard free relay,
most of the first day of competition lington also won, with a 4:13.56 posting a 1 :45.02 time. 
in the North Star Conference meet clocking. because bad weather delayed its ar­Individual wins were a little 
Byrne placed second and third. 
rival, the Irish repeated as confer­scarce, considering the margin of respectively, in the l 00-and 200­ence champions, easily victory for the team. Andrea Bonny yard backstroke, with times of outdistancing Evansville and Butler. won the three-meter diving event 1:04.20 and 2:19.37. She also waswith a total of 381.95 points and ftfth in the I00-yard free ( 58.21 ).
The final standings had the Irish 

would have won the one-meter also 
Kramer finished one position be­first with 482.5 points, Evansville but the late arrival prevented it. Coc­hind Byrne in both backstrokesecond with 408.5 points, Butler hiolo won the l 00-yard breaststroke events. At the shorter distance, shethird with 392 points, Valparaiso with a time of 1:1 1.0 l for the only was third ( 1:07.32), and ended upfourth with a 348 total, host St. Louis other Irish victory. 
University following with 30l fourth in the 200-yard back 
"The fact that the girls had to
points and Xavier last with 138 ( 2:21.86).
swim a lot ofevents in the two dayspoints. 
DeVine ended with a secondinstead of fewer races in three daysThe Irish win is even more con­place and two thirds. She finishedslowed their times down and mayvincing considering the women ahead of two teammates in the finalshave lowered the finish for a few were behind by 88 points after of the 200-yard butterfly in placingpeople," said assistant coach JohnThursday their late arrival second ( 2: 18.5 7 ); she was in front ofGibbons. "But the girls put their per­
prevented them from competing in 

Walker (third, 2:22.44) and Hol­sonal accomplishments aside andthe day's individual events. 
lianne Logan (sixth, 2:30.48).
did it for the good of the team. EvenBut when the Irish arrived, they DeVine picked her third places inbetter, they came out winners."
took the competition by storm. In 

the 100-yard fly ( 1:01.92) and 400­the first event of the finals, which Head Coach Dennis Stark was par­
yard I.M. ( 4:5 7.23 ). was swam only hours after the team ticulary impressed with the spirit of completed its 18-hour trip, the wo­the women in repeating their title. " Co-captain Cochiolo could be men scored a victory which it Even though these weren't their tabbed as the versatility award win­repeated in the othersecond relay of best times of ther year, the girls ner, swimming three different the day. showed true Notre Dame spirit in strokes in her four top-eight finishes. The 200-yard medley relay team coming from behind to win." She was second in the 200-yard of Barbara Byrne, Venette Cochiolo, Darlington finished the meet with breaststroke (2:34.62), fourth in the Suzanne DeVine and Julie Boss won three individual second-place 400 I.M. ( S:04.86) and eighth in the the opening event with a time of finishes. She was second in the l 00-l 00-yard fly ( 1 :04.23), in addition to 
1:55.3. The 800-yard freestyle relay and 200-yard free with times of her first-place relay and individual team of Karen Kramer, Byrne, 55.10 and 1:59.31, respectively. The finishes. 
Summer Internships 
Continental Illinois National Bank (Chicago) 
All interested juniors with Accounting, Finance or MIS majors sign up in the Career and Placement Office for February 21 interviews 
the 
BLACK CULTURAL ARTS FESTIVAL 
presents 
nMiss T!!I:.yne~rrin~on S1 
n Jazz Musician j' I 
n 

IN CONCERT 
with members ofthe N.D. Jazz Ensemble 
Wednesday, February 20, 7:00pm Auditorium, Center for Continuing Education 

Prospects for keeping a two game winning streak alive looked grim for the Notre Dame hockey team last nightafter theMarquette Warriors jumped out to a 2-1 lead in the opening minutes ofplay. The Irish later rebounded to defeat the Warriors 11-2. Ed Domansky recaps last night's action on page /6. 
~IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIII-11-IIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIOHil 
1 S•niar Mardi Cira• W•ek 1 
I i Tu••day :iI t9th Mardi Gra• C•l•bratian _I 1 S•niar Bar !I:DD -t:DDI "Spritz•r•". 11Draft" •p•cial••• 
I clawn• and mu•ic 
W•dn••day 
zoth 114 far t•• at S•niar Bar 
Thur•day Zt•t Party at ••aack•taiJ••• !1-? 
IFriday ZZnd LIVE BAND: ""NEWSPEAK.. 
i 
i "85 Day• ta Graduatian Party••
I 
at S•niar Bar --Th• Cauntdawn B•IJin•
! 
i.IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIOIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIj 
P' -, A Reminder that the Deadline for Nominating a Senior Student for the 
Distinguished StudentAward 
is 
Friday, Feb. 22 
Nomination forms are available in the Campus Ministry Office Memorial Library, the Center 
for Social Concerns or the Alumni Office (201 Admin. Bldg.) 

The Observer Tuesday, February 19, 1985-page 13 
Men's swim team finishes 2nd at Midwest meet 
By THERON ROBERTS 
Sports Writer 
ST. LOUIS -The Notre Dame men's swimming team was slowed by snow enroute to the Midwestern City Conference meet over the weekend, and never did recover from the 18-hour trip and the big lead built by Evansville in the Irish absence. 
The team arrived at the St. Louis University pool Thursday afternoon, and was limited to participating in one relay on the first day ofcompeti­tion. The long duration of the trip forced the team to lose the form it enjoyed in its running six-meet win­ning streak and prevented most of the swimmers from registering their best times of the year. 
The tlnal tt"am pomt toldb p111 Evansvilk on top with <,-c; p·.»int~. Notre uaJuc ,c::..utl\.1 wlUI ,)-:-1, i.Jr;~l Roberts next with 2 51, St. Louis with 228, Butler with 205, and Xavier and Loyola well behind the other teams. 
You Can Buy This Baby A Lifetime! 
Even if the point totals had only been recorded for the events in which the Irish participated, the Purple Aces still would have been victorious. 
"I could see us coming out of the effects of the trip on Saturday," said head coach Dennis Stark. "But the 18-hour trip did affect the times of the swimmers. 
"I think we swam well coming from behind," continued Stark. "The team generated a lot ofspirit when it could have easily folded after start ing out the first day so far behind." 
Senior co-captains Tim Bohdan and Brian Casey led the list of top finishers for Notre Dame, while classmates Mike Kennedy and Paul Renz also turned in notable efforts. 
Bohdan placed second in the 200­vard backstroke with a time of Z:04.72, third in the IOO-yard back with a time of 57.03, fourth in the 200-yard freestyle with a time of 1:5I.03, and joined Benz, Casey and 
Jeff Grace for a second-place finish 


EE, ME and 
Computer Science Majors 
Total projectinvolvement... 
it's in your hands 
Our shirtsleeve engineering style at Hamilton Standard ... it's ideal for people who won't let go of a problem till it's solved. Who invest a lot of themselves in their work. And who want the freedom to see an idea through to production. 
HAMILTON STANDARD IS COMING ON CAMPUS 
TUESDAY, MARCH 5 
BE SURE TO SIGN UP FOR AN INTERVIEW 
We're innovative pacesetters. Our highly advanced technologies are serving worldwide aerospace ...automotive and industrial markets. 
Are you ready to make your professional mark? See your Placement Office today to arrange an appointment. If you are unable to meet with us, please send details of your education and experience to: William Kelly, College Co­ordinator, Dept. 130, Hamilton Standard, Windsor Locks, CT 06096. 

UNITED TEC --INOLOGIES 
HA~ILTON 
STANDARD 
Extraordinary achievements ... through hands-on creativity 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
in the 400-yard medley relay with a time of 3:42.25. 
Bohdan also anchored both ofthe free relays for the Irish. The 800­yard relay ofGrace, Steve Coffey,Jim Dowd and Bohdan placed second, finishing in 7:29.I, still battling the effects ofthe extended bus ride. The 400-yard free relay team of John Koselka, Chris Green, Grace and Bohdan took third place on Saturday with a time of 3:I 7.I9, its best ofthe season. 
Casey registered two second­place finishes -in the 1 00-and 200­yard butterfly, with times of 54.37 and 2:0I.49, respectively. Casey also was fourth in the 400-yard individ­ual medley with a time of 4:35.I2. 
Kennedy was the only winner for the Irish at the meet, with a victory in the three-meter diving competi­tion with a total of4 3 7. 20 points. He finished second in the one-meter event with a 395.05 total. 
Benz also finished well in the the two backstroke races. He took second in the I00-yard back with a time of 56.57 and fourth in the 200­yard back, finishing in 2:06.46. 

Even with all ofthose good perfor­mances by the veterans, perhaps the most surprising swimmer of all was Chris Green. The sophomore turned in a stellar effort in the 400-yard I.M., finishing second with a fine 4:27.79 time. He also placed in the top I2 in the 200-yard back and I00-yard free, finishing ninth and 1Oth, respectively. 
Chris Walsh finished in third place behind Casey in the 200-yard fly, with his 2:02.I6 time being his best ofhis career. 
Other swimmers finishing in the ~op six positions were Mark Jensen, fourth in the I00-yard fly ( 55.28), Grace in the 100-yard free ( 50.05), and a pair of distance swimmers in the 1650-yard free -Coffey in fifth ( I8:08.49) and Roland Hartzell in sixth ( I8:11 .60). Coffey also finished sixth in the 400-yard I.M. ( 4:40.55.). 
There were a couple ofswimmers 

who swam their best times of the 
year, but qualified in the consolation 
finals. 
Freshman John Koselka swam 

well in the 100-yard back (seventh, 
58.37) and the 100-yard free (seventh, 50.32), after missing his specialty, the 50-yard free on Thursday. Irish swimmers in the 200-yard breaststroke, Pat Bradley and Terry Dempsey, also finished with their best times of the season, placing seventh (2:24.47) and ninth (2:25.57), respectively. 
Rich Y ohon had a pair ofseventh­place finishes in the one-and three­meter diving events. 
Stark shared the title of Coach of the Year in the conference, an honor given by his colleagues. The Irish coach of 27 years modestly attri­butes part of that honor to assistant John Gibbons. 
"John has been a tremedous help to me and the team this season," Stark said. 
Irish remain unbeaten 

Fencers embarrass Case Western 
By KEVIN HERBERT This past weekend, the Irish were Sports Writer entered in a semi-tournament in Cleveland, Ohio, with Case Western 
Three-and-a-half weeks ago the Reserve, Miami (Ohio) and Alleg­Notre Dame men's fencing team was heny. unable to participate in an eight­Fortunately, Notre Dame team meet in Columbus, Ohio dut> overcame the weather and made it to inclement weather. to Cleveland. Unfortunately, Case 
•IIHtlllttHtltt••••••••tllr••t~•••••••••••••••••"'''''''''''"'''''' ''"'"""''"''..'"" 
Happy Birthday Special 
You and your friends can have your very own Observer display ad 

¥ We accept almost any picture, almost any information .. Just give us the material by 1 pm two publishing days prior to the birthday 
For only a few dollars per friend you can 
give this one-of-a-kind gift that won't be 
lived down for years 
The Observer, 303 Lafortune Student Center, 239-5303 
.............................................................................................. 
-COMPUTER MAJORS 
WOULD RATHER BYTE INTO DOMINO'S PIZZA. 
277-2151 
$1.00 off any pizza. 
$1.00 
One coupon per pizza. 
Off 
Fast; Free Delivery'" Plaza 23 Center 1835 South Bend Ave. 

Western Reserve was the only other 
squad who made it to Ohio's largest 
city. 
The result was a two-team match 

rather than a triple-dual meet. The 
outcome of the Notre Dame -Case 
Western Reserve meet was the same 
as the results from the last 3 7 
matches between the two squads. 
In the process Notre Dame ex­

tended its season record to I6-0. 
The Irish were never really chal­

lenged in the meet as they thrashed 
Case Western 23-4. Starring for the 
Irish in their victory were Andy 
Quaroni at epee, Mike Van der Vel­
den at foil and MikeJanis at sabre. 
Notre Dame men's fencing coach 

Mike DeCicco said he was very 
pleased with his team's performance 
this past weekend. 
"We are, and have been fencing 

exceptionally well," said DeCicco. 
"Right now we are riding on shear 
momentum. I am looking forward to 
this weekend's action." 
The action DeCicco is referring to 

is the tournament that Notre Dame 
will be hosting Saturday. The visiting 
teams include: Northwestern, Illi­
nois, Wisconsin, Purdue, Chicago 
and last year's NCAA national cham­
pions, Wayne State. 
In other Notre Dame men's fen­

cing action, Charles 
Higgs-Coulthard finished second in 
the junior-Olympic-qualifying 
tournament. This impressive finish 
qualifies Higgs-Coulthard for the 
forthcoming tryouts in Holland. 
Boom-Boom Mancini reluctant to hang up gloves 
Associated Press 
RENO, NEV. -Ray "Boom Boom" 

Mancini wasn't quite ready to call it 
a career after having his face carved 
up for the second time by a crafty 
Uvingstone Bramble. But if he lis­
tens to those close to him, he may 
have stepped into the ring for the 
last time. 
"If it was up to me, I'd tell him to 

forget about it," said Mancini's fa­
ther, Lenny, a former top 
lightweight contender himself. 
The former World Boxing Associ­ation lightweight champion, however, said he needed more time to reflect on his brief but at times spectacular career before making a decision. 
"I'm not going to answer that now," the 23-year-old Mancini said Saturday night after dropping a close but unanimous 15-round decision to Bramble. 
... 
The Observer Tuesday, February 19, 1985-page 14 
Irish wrestlers pin Nebraska, fail against Purdue 
ByJOE BRUNETII The sophomore Irish wrestler Sports Writer paced Notre Dame to its 24-18 vic­tory over Nebraska; its first wres· There isn't much to Carl tling victory over a Big 8 opponent. Hildinger's physical stature, in fact, The Irish dropped the second halfof 
there is only 5-4 and 118 pounds, the tri·meet inn a 35·9 decision to but when Hildinger stepped on the Purdue. mat last Saturday, he gave a full 5-4 Hlldinger was scheduled to and I I R pound-;. 
wrestle the 4th-ranked 118-pound 
Track team runs 7th at weekend tourney 
By MIKE SZVMANSKI 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's track team h;1d many excellent showings as it placed seventh among 16 very talented teams at the Central Collegiate Championships last weekend. 
"We had some terrific individual performances against stiff com­petition," said Irish coachjoe Plane. "Every runner who qualified for the finals eventually placed and that shows that they are pretty darn competitive." 
Robert Nobles turned In solid performances, running a leg in the distance medley and in the mile relay which placed fifth, while placing second in the 600-yard run in 1:11.01, edgingout third-place Irish finisher Van Pearcy. 
Notre Dame now has qualified the mile relay, the two-mile relay, and the distance medley for the IC4A Indoor Track Championships In two weeks. jeffVanWie, who placed fifth in the 1,000-yard run at the CCC, also qualified with a personal best of 2: 11.76. 
In the field events, Uoyd Constable placed second at seven feet for the high jump. james Patterson continued to jump well, as he took second in the long jump, jumping 24 feet, three inches and sixth in the triple jump, going 47 feet, 10 inches. john McNelis ran 1:53.54 for third place In a tough 880-yard run field. 
"Overall, we competed very well," said Plane. "We beat four Big Ten schools, and the three that beat us will be three of the top four teams at the Big Ten meet." 
Louganis gets Sullivan 
Associated Press 1be voters had to select from a 
group consistingof 10 Olympic gold 
INDIANAPOLIS · Greg Louganis, medalists · only the second time in an unsuccessful candidate the past the award's 55-year history that has five years, got a welcome surprise happened. yesterday as he received the Sullivan "It's just an honor to be among all Award for 1984 in recognition of of them and be considered one of being voted the nation's outstanding them." said Louganis about the other amateur athlete. finalists. "It's one award that has kind 
"I was really surprised," said of eluded me for a few years and I l.ouganis after the presentation. "I never thought I'd be here in this po· thought for sure Mary Lou (Retton) sition." would win." Louganis, of Mission Viejo, Calif., 
Louganis, 25, finished first in na· is only the second men's diver to tiona! voting by about 2,500 particl· win the award that has gone to track pants · a group that included the and field performers 32 times in its media, past winners, the sponsoring history. Sammy Lee was the first Amateur Athletic Union and repre· diver honored, receiving it for his sentatives of the U.S. Olympic Com­1953 accomplishments. mittee. Three years later Patricia McCor­
"It's like the Heisman Trophy," mick became the only women's Louganis said about the award. "I diver to receive the Sullivan, which just don't get a S7 million trophy," has been given annually since 1930 referring to Heisman winner Doug in rec..:ognition of james E. Sullivan, Flutie, who signed a S7 million con­an AAU founder. AAU regulations tract with the New jersey Generals limit an athlete to winning only ofthe United States Football League. once. 
COLLEGE COSTS ARE GOING UP. BUTSOISTHE ARMY COLLEGE FUND. 
Tuttion,books,lab fees,college living expenses-all seem to be climbing relentlessly. Well, here's good news from the Army. Today's Army College Fund is climbing too. You can accumulate over $25,000 for college, if you qualify. 
What's more,you'll study,learn and become proficient in a useful skill. It could be a skill with so wide an application in military and civilian life that it might help you decide what to take in college. 
Ifyou're determined to go on to college,but you don't know where the money is coming from,pick up an Army College Fund booklet from vour local recruiter. It offers several options you'll 
want to investigate. Stop by or call: Sgt. Brennan 
234-4187 
ARMY.BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 
wrestler in the country, Matt Campbell of Nebraska. Hildinger, showing his usual tenacity, was down only 10·7 in the final period, and with time winding down, Hildinger's persistence got to Campbell. Campbell proceeded to use foul language and walked offthe mat, giving Hildinger the win by dis· qualification. 
"Carl really set the tempo," said Irish wrestling coach Fran McCann afterward. "He frustrated Campbell. That (win) put us back in the meet. They became believers in themsleves, and they went out and just wrestled hard." 
Hildinger's win was followed by two superb performances by 126­pound senior Guy Locksmith and 134-pound Ron Wisniewski, who won their matches 10-2 and 11·5, respectively. 
"Locksmith and Wisniewski came out with fire and aggressiveness," McCann praised. "They did a nice job and their wins really set the tempo for us." 
Senior Don Heintzelman pro­vided the fourth straight Irish win over the Cornhuskers winning on default by injury. The Irish then hit a dry spell with losses by 150-pound Luke DiSabato, freshman Ken Kasler ( 158), captain Phil Baty ( 177), and sophomore Dave Helmer ( 190). 
john Krug, who entered the meet with a 6-match winning streak, could only muster a 3·3 draw. Irish heavyweight Dominic Prinzivalli provided three points to the Irish cause with his 4-1 victory. 

"I think they (Nebraska) thought they could blow us out," said McCann. "They just came out lack· luster. That was a real surprise. I'll take a win over Nebraska any time." 
This just wasn't an average win for McCann's squad. This is the same Nebraska that finished fourth in the NCAA last year and has been seen many times in the top ten in the past. True, it is a Nebraska squad that is young and rebuilding, but nonethe· less, a win over someone like the Cornhuskers is quite an accomplish· ment. And McCann knows it. 
"They said they would be young," said McCann, "but they get quality kids. They're attitude was bad, so we just beat them." 
From their performance against 
Purdue, it seems the Irish gave all 
they had against the Cornhuskers 
and didn't have much left when they 
faced the Boilermakers. The 35·9 
score was evidence of that. 
McCann felt that the poor mental 
state of his young squad had a lot to 
do with the defeat. 

"Our kids sell themselves short. 
It's a problem we've been fighting all 
year," said a disappointed McCann. 
"They go out timid and don't open 
up. That's discouraging to me. They 
went out and wrestled like they 
were facing Iowa. Purdue is good, 
but they aren't an Iowa or Oklahoma 
State." 

Once again, it was the 5-4 
Hildinger that paced the Irish with his win by technical default once he had built up a 15·0 lead. 
"Carl took it to the kid," said McCann. "His biggest problem is his size, but he's a competitor and he doesn't quit." 
Locksmith lost his first match of the season in a 9·0 major decision at 
126. Wisniewski could only hold on for 6:50 before he was pinned by his Boilermaker opponent. Purdue's Lilovich brothers, Joe and Dave, haunted the Irish all day as joe defeated the 142-pound Heintzel· man. Dave, the other brother, did a number on Kasler pinning the fresh· man in a mere 31 seconds. 
"He didn't wrestle well the whole night," McCann said of Kasler. "He was very sluggish. It was all mental, he worked hard all week in practice, but just didn't wrestle well. He's just showing the inconsistency that freshmen show." 
DiSabato lost an 8-2 decision to Alan Webber, and Baty dropped an 1 1·1 major decision. Prinzivalli lost by technical default when he trailed 21·6. Krug lost his eighth match of the season with a 5·1 loss that didn't please McCann. 
"John just wrestled sluggish the whole night," said the Irish mentor. 
Helmer provided the only other 
Irish team points with his 8-7 
squeaker over 190-pound Dave 
Dennis. 

The next time the Irish wrestle, 
they will travel to Milwaukee to take 
on the Marquette Warriors this Sat· 
urday. 




for late night munchies 
.. 
LOOK 
INTO 
DARBY'S 

~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii in the basement of LaFortune 
,-­
Doonesbury 
------~~--~----------------w 
~~~C3L~----------------------------------------T•u•e•s•d•a-y,_F_e_b_ru_a_ry
__1_9_,_1_9_8_5___P_a_ge__1_5 



I.JOW1 /T;YlUST HAVE B~EN HI BERNATIN6, PeeR L 
Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side 
I Hf/P fiN f/NX!e1Y f/TTIICK. WHRr IF YOIJ PloP 70N/blff
liNt? I Hl/f1N'i MAll€ 51!1(eYX KNeW .JI/!T HOW Jt'a/1 )f7({ M£1/N 70 M6 .7 
\
!)./! 
·~ 
.co '"" 
"8/WlY 81/£5 
1/NP W51Y t.II55€S • 
111£ff(G'[J 
NQ(MIJCH MNf/T 
'filM.. 
~'7, 
The Daily Crossword 
Garry Trudeau 
Kevin Walsh 
BEAVeR.! 
LISTEN, NE C DLE­
OSE, IM A 
S<iJUIRREL. N 0 w 
GET lYlE OUTA 
THIS COl-D. 
Gary Larson 

58 Care for 60 Amino­51 "Auntie-" 62 Entreaty 65 Herd head 
Monday's Solution 


Campus 
•12 
p.m.-Kellogg Seminar, (Brown Bag), "The Three Rationalities in Development," Prof. Dennis Goulet, ND, Room 131 Decio. 

• 
3:30p.m.-Graduate Seminar, "Catalytic Surface Chemistry via Vibrational Spectroscopy of Ab­sorbed Reaction Intermediates," Brad Anton, Cali· fornia Institute of Technology, Room 356 Fitzpatrick. 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Thermophilic Starch Fer­mentations for Amulase and Ethanol Production," Dr. Gregory Zeikus, Room 278 Galvin. 

•7, 
9 & 11 p.m. · Ford Theatre Movie, "Night Shift," Engineering Auditorium, All Proceeds Go to MS Campaign. 

•7 
p.m. -College Republicans Meeting, 204 O'Shaughnessy. 

•7 
-8 p.m. -Workshop, "Job Offer Decision Making," Kate Dascenzo, Assistant Director, Career & Placement Services, Career & Placement Center. 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Economics and Our Rela­tions With Latin America," Prof. Lee Travis, ND, li­brary Rare Book Room. 

•7:30 
p.m. -Tuesday Night Film Series, "My Night at Maud's," Annenberg Auditorium. 

•8:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "South Africa and U.S. Policy," Neo Mnunzana, Center for Social Con­cerns, Sponsored by World Hunger Coalition, All Are Welcome. 


TV Tonight 
7:00p.m. 7:30p.m. 8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. 10:00p.m. 
ll:OOp.m. 
11:30p.m. 

16 M*A*S*H 
22 Three's Company 
28 jeopardy 
16 Barney Miller 
22 WKRP in Cincinnati 
28 Wheel ofFortune 
16 TheA-Team 
22 The jeffersons 
28 Movie· Hollywood Wives (Pt. 3 of3) 
34 Nova 
22 Movie -Rocky 
34 Ascent of Man 
16 Riptide 
34 Austin City Umits 
16 NewsCenter f6 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 
34 Movie 
16 Tonight Show 
22 Fall Guy/Columbo 
28 ABC News Nightline 

©1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
ACROSS 1 Bernhardt 6 "Dragnet" 
Jack 1 0 Netter LendI 14 Aspen kin 15 Toward shelter 16 Office note 17 Jack-of-all 
trades 19 Malay craft 
20 Upon 21 Winged 22 Impetuous 23 Angelic prop 25 Wild plum 
27 Goddess of 
recklessness 30 College VIP 32 Christian 
creed 
36 Hilly district 
in Eng. 38 Colonizes 40 Field: Lat. 
41 Saxon legis· 
lature 42 Not now 43 Fla.cape 45 Hollow rock 46 Tars 47 Coin stopped 
on 49 Meth. 50 Legal abbr. 
52 Jade 54 Reporter query 57 Old language 59 Light giver 63 Shankar 64 Some appli· 
ances are 66 Rainbow 67 Basin 68 One at­69 Prove 70 Spreads hay 71 Jason's wife 
DOWN 1 Epic tale 2 Help a felon 3 Vegas rival 4 Heb. letter 5 Pronoun 6 Stuck-up 
cover 7 Essayist Lamb 8 Defeats 9 Palm seed 
10 Curse 11 Miss Miles 12 Stagg name 13 Netter Yannick 18 Rhine 
tributary 24 Commercials 26 OPEC's pride 27 Radar planes 28 Forum wear 29 Miss Verdugo 31 Wanderer 
41 Most tender 44 Petdoc 45 Part of Eur. 48 Coinage site 51 Certain 
student 
33 Group char­
acter 34 Badlyoff 35 Serfs of old 37 Playwright 39 Campaigns 


Tuesday, February 19, 1985-page 16 
Irish pull out 61-60 nailbiter against Greyhounds 
By MIKE SULLIVAN a player taller than 6-5, they actually Sports Editor outrebounded (37-35) a Notre Dame tearr, that was seventh in the 
Four seconds left in the game. country in rebounding. Their suc­Loyola of Baltimore trails Notre cess on the boards was the major Dame by just one, but the reason they were able to erase an Greyhounds have the ball under the early 16-point Irish lead and have a Irish basket. chance to win the game. 
"We just tried to set a screen for David Gately," said Loyola coach "They were able to outrebound us Mark Amatucci. "He's a very good because of our lack of concentra­outside shooter." tion," said forward Jim Dolan who 
The in-bounds pass is tipped by scon:d eight points and pulled down Notre Dame, but Gately gets the ball a team-high eight rebounds. "We and launches an awkward 15-footer weren't going to the boards well. from the right side. Anybody can rebound well, even if 
they're small, if they're willing to go"Even though he was off-balance, after the ball. Loyola just outhustled we got what we wanted," said us."
Amatuccl. Gately's shot bounces up off the 
While the Greyhounds deserve a rim, settles back down, and then 
lot of credit for playing hard for 40 hangs there for a second. Finally, it 
minutes and making Notre Dame begins to fall away, but Greyhound 
look like an NIT team, the Irish made forward Kevin Carter is able to tip 
things much easier for their visitors the ball back toward the basket. 
by turning the ball over l 5 times, "We told our guys that, if the shot 
many in crucial situations, and by missed, to try to get the tip," said 
making just 5-of-13 free throws. In Amatucci. "And we got that, too." 
the last 53 seconds alone, Notre Dame missed two foul shots, includ­The Greyhounds may have gotten 
ing the front end of a one-and-one, the tip · and they definitely gained a 
and threw away two passes. lot of respect -but they did not get 
Between the poor play of Notre the ball to drop as time ran out on Dame and the hard work of Loyola,their upset attempt. As a result, the large lead of the Irish graduallyNotre Dame snuck out of the ACC was whittled down during the with a 61-60 win. 
second half. The hosts had built the lead by shooting 60 percent from 
"It's our I Sth win this year, and the field in the first half, while the that's all that matters," said Irish Greyhounds struggled, hitting justcoach Digger Phelps after the game. 
l l oftheir first 31 shots. 
"Let's beat Fordham (on Wednes­day). That's my concern. It's impor­The game began to turn in the tant to just put this game out of our final seconds of the first half, minds." however, when Amatucci ordered 
his players to play for the last shot of You will have to forgive those the half despite the fact that they 
Greyhound defenders David Gately and Aubrey
who saw flashbacks to the loss to were trailing by 14. Aubrey Reveley, 
Reveley anticipate their chance for an upset after
Murray State a few years ago or to a 6-3 forward, drove to the basket for the Rutgers defeat last year, but a layup and was fouled byjeffPeters. 
Notre Dame's DonaldRoyal misses·a tip in the ACC 
there were few people -Phelps in· The three-point play cut the lead to eluded -who felt Loyola had a 11, 36-25, as the teams went to the chance. After all, the Greyhounds of lockerrooms. 

Saint Mary's basketball team grabs
the ECAC Metro Conference will never be confused for the Ramblers Despite the late rush, few people of Loyola of Chicago. This was a gave the Greyhounds much chance 
team that lost to Richmond by 32 in the second half. However, as the 

fourth win of season over weekend 
points at home. Irish began shooting their normal 

roadtrip and hoped to improve its 4-charge and put the Belles in front for
40-45 percent, it quickly became ap­By KELLY PORTOLESE 

11 season record. minute with three
Last night, however, in front of a parent that Loyola was not going to Sports Writer good within a 
The Belles submitted one of their quick baskets on some sharp outsidefairly large crowd of 10,966, lay down and die. 
finer performances of the season on shooting. Before the midway pointAmatucci's squad showed how "I told our starters that, if they Spirits soared on the Saint Mary's Saturday as they handed the Taylor in the first half, she sank three morehustle and determination can make play a tough first two minutes, we'd basketball team as it went into last University Trojans of Upland, Ind., a shots on some passes from Suess. 
up for a lack of size and talent. AI· night's contest against DePauw Uni­84-68 defeat in the Angela Athletic With the score 22-18 in favor ofthough the Greyhounds did not start see IRISH page 11 versity on the first leg ofa five game 

Facility. Saint Mary's, Pantelleria stole the Due to bad weather conditions, it ball and went the length ofthe court was the Belles first game in almost for an easy two. Back on defense, the
ND hockey team overcomes early 

two weeks. sophomore guard's quickness "We've made a lot of improve­forced another turnover, which ments and are playing more as a resulted in a Saint Mary's fast break
deficit, overpowers Warriors, 11-2 

team than earlier in the season," said and another Pantelleria layup. Saint Mary's head coach Marvin At S-9, senior center Betsy Ebert another at least ensured himself of a picked up his 35th assist on Chap­Wood. "Everybody contributed. was strong under the boards and
By ED DOMANSKY spot in the record book. man's second goal of the game at There is no one individual we can do posted four first-half points for the
Sports Writer 

Freshman john Welsch scored his 16: I 0 ofthe third period to bring the without. We also are playing with Belles. Senior guard Teresa McGin­The Notre Dame hockey team 
first goal and tied the score at 2-2 at game to its final 11-2 margin. Ian . more confidence." nis entered the line-up less than two the 7 · 26 mark ofthe first period after Williams set the record during the The depth ofthis year's squad was minutes before half and hit a nice
picked up its third-straight victory some nice passes by Mark Anquillare 1972-73 season. evident as 12 players saw action, in­shot from the top of the key to give
last night as it pounded Marquette I 1-2 in the delayed finale of the and Rich Sobilo made the effort pos­"It was nice to win, but we don't cluding four who scored in double the Belles a 40-35 halftime edge home-and-home series that started sible. want to embarass anybody," said figures. Junior forward Beth Kreher Five minutes into the second with Friday's 9-4 win at Milwaukee. With the Irish leading 4-2, sopho­Irish head coach Lefty Smith. "We led the Belles' offensive attack with half, the Belles outscored the more defenseman Mike Breslin beat lend credibility to their schedule, 10 field goals and a free throw for a Trojans 10-2 and took a command­
Notre Dame continued to im­

Warrior goalie Scott Erfurth with a but at times it gets kind of tough not 21-point effort -one point shy ofher ing 13-point lead, 50-37. Radke prove upon its record, which now low wrist shot at 6:54 of the second to have things get out of hand. We career best. paced the Belles offensively, pump­stands at 9-16-1. Marquette falls to period to turn on the red light for his still have to play our game." "We just came together and gave ing 12 of her 14 total points in the 11-12-1. 
first tally. In an effort to balance things out, our _best effort today, and it second half. But as Kreher, Radke It looked early as if the Warriors Freshman defenseman Lance Pat­Smith dressed 24 players for the showed," said the Columbus, Ohio, and freshman center Stephanie were going to gain revenge for
.. 
ten "'aited until 8:29 of the third game and all but the two backup native. Duke got into foul trouble, the
Friday's Irish win as they jumped out period to pick up his first career goal goalies saw action. Sophomore guard Kris Pantelleria Trojans crept up on the Belles, nar­to a 2-l lead just 2:1 7 into the con­and put Notre Dame into double fig­In the Irish net AI Haverkamp added 20 points ofher own on eight rowing the gap to six, 64-58, with a test. 

ures for the night, l 0-2. overcame a shaky start to turn in a baskets and a perfect four-of-four little over seven minutes to go in theNntre Dame came to life, Senior co-captain Brent Chap­fine performance. He stopped 32 from the line. Senior forward Elaine contest.
however, and quickly turned the man's assist on the Patten goal in the Warrior shots to earn the win. Suess and freshman Tammye Radke The Belles, however, were not in­game into a rout with six un­third period enabled him to reach also were deadly at the free throw timidated. Solid defense under theanswered goals in the second period the 200 point plateau for his career. Steve Ely scored at 9:21 of the line. Suess cashed in on 1 0-of-12 basket by Ebert and Kreher, alongto emerge with a 9-2lead. 

He finished the game with two goals opening period to give the Irish a 3-2 charity tosses, while Radke wa..'> on with consistent free throw shooting 
Along with the victory, the game and the assist to boost his career lead going into the lockerroom. target in eight-of-nine attempts. on the other end by Suess, allowed was marked by significant achieve­total to l 02 goals and 99 assists. joining Breslin in the second per­Suess and Radke finished with l 2 Saint Mary's to pull away for its ments by five Irish players. Three Fellow senior and Chapman's iod scoring parade were Sobilo, and 14 points, respectively. fourth win of the season. Both SaiJl( 
scored their first career goals, one linemate Tim Reilly tied the record Reilly Steve Whitmort, Tom Parent With the score knotted at seven Mary's and Taylor now have identi­reached a career scoring plateau and for most assists in a season as he andjohn Nickodcmus. early in the first half, Kreber took cal 4-1 1 marks. 




