-~---~-~ 
---~~ ~----~----­
Revue review-page 8 
VOL XIX, NO. 85 
the independent ~tudent new~papcr ....crYing 110trt dame and ~aillt mary·~ FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1985 
Faculty insurance revised by senate 
By BOB MUSSELMAN 
StaffReporter 
Progress has been made in the Faculty Senate's bid to influence fac­ulty health care coverage, according to former senate Chairman Associ­ate Professor Mario Borelli and cur­rent Vice Chairman Associate Professor Donald Barrett. 
"We now have a three-choice health insurance plan," said Borelli. 
The senate took notice of the issue at a meeting in September of 1983, when Borelli told the senate he had voiced "various concerns, both with economic and procedural matters" to University Provost Timothy O'Meara after reviewing the terms of a new group health in­surance plan implemented that sum­mer. 
Under the previous program, faculty essentially paid nothing for insurance. The new plan required those covered to pay a deductible and a co-insurance fee (a certain percentage of the total) on certain medical services, but a premium was not charged. 
The purpose of this change was to "get people more directly involved" with the payment of rising health care costs, according to G. Thomas Bull, director ofpersonnel. 
Having not been consulted and feeling that the new program in­tended to combat rising costs "was not the best solution," the faculty objected, according to Barrett. 
The Faculty Affairs Committee, then headed by Barrett, conducted a one-year study in order to present the administration with "options that might be improvements." The group made 11 recommendations to the administration, recommen­dations Barrett said were both sensitive to the budgetary concerns of the University and to the health care needs ofthe faculty and staff in­volved. 
In November of 1984, the admin­istration implemented a new 
see J:<'ACULTY, page 4 


Making the move off 
A landlords' open house for students inter­ested in moving off-campus was last night in the New Orleans room of LaFortune. At right, Bruce Lohman and Doug Wurth receive information 
"" 

Director of ethics office approves Meese appointn1ent 
Associated Press sions "incredible," "unbeliev­ficial, Michael Deaver, brought hies office's problems with Meese matter had been handled able" and "frightening." _ up McKean's name. Meese's involvement in the by their boss. WASHINGTON-The govern­Martin, an appointee of Presi­"I find it unbelievable that McKean affair -but to take no fur­
But Martilll, who worked "as a

ment's chief ethics officer said dent Reagan, said, "I had no pres­anyone thinks it would matter ther action such as declaring that 
functionary" in President
yesterday that Attorney General­sure from anyone regarding this who spoke first. I can't believe a violation had occurred. 
Reagan's 1980 campaign, said he
designate Edwin Meese III did matter," including presidential Mr. Martin intends to extend J Gary Davis and Nancy Feat­
was "outraged" by news ac­
not break ethics rules, and an as­counselor Meese, his attorneys such a rule throughout the gov­hers, two staff attorneys who 
counts maintaining that he had 
sistant who had initially con­and White House counsel Fred ernment of the United States. I concluded in an internal agency 
overturned the staff conclusions
cluded there were violations Fielding. find it frightening," Cox said. memorandum that Meese may 
about Meese. 
said, "I probably misconstrued But Cox, the first Watergate Martin, testified under oath have violated the government's the facts." special prosecutor, said Martin that Meese's participation in the standard for acceptance of gifts, Davis said he concluded that was sending a "devastating appointment of john McKean to testified that they shared Martin's Meese's conduct involving the
Director David Martin of the 
message" to federal officials. the Postal Service Board of ultimate conclusion that ·there McKean matter "required that
Office of Government Ethics, ap­
Common Cause has been lobby­Governors had not created "an was no violation per se. something b<: done.... I wanted
pearing at Meese's confirmation 
ing against Meese's appointment. appearance of impropriety that Martin also described as Mr. Fielding to be aware of it ...
hearing, told the Senate judiciary 
Cox cited Martin's conclusion required corrective action." "normal procedure" his meeting and that they would talk to Mr.
Committee he was "totally 
that Meese did not violate ethics But, Martin said, "I'm totally with Meese's attorneys to discuss Meese about this problem that
satisfied that Meese was in com­
rules when he failed to disqualify satisfied that Mr. Meese is in com­that internal, preliminary finding we had.... It ended there, in the
pliance with conflict of interest 
himself from participating in a pliance with conflict-of-interest by Davis and Feathers. executive branch."
laws." 
White House personnel meeting laws, except for an appearance Under questioning by Senate Meese has acknowledged that 
Archibald Cox, the president where McKean's nomination was problem." judiciary Committee chairman McKean arranged two loans for of the lobbying group Common initiated. Meese had testified he He said the "corrective action" Strom Thurmond, R-S.C., both him totaling 560,000, but said Cause and another witness at the was guilty of no ethics violation taken was to notify White House Davis and Feathers said they had that it was an "arms-length trans­hearing, called Martin's conclu-because another White House of-counsel Fred Fielding of the et-no quarrel with the way the action." 


Students apathetic to goverttment, according to Ombudsman Sllirvey 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI 
StaffReporter 
According to a recent Om­budsman survey 74 percent of stu­dents polled could not name their student senate representive and 45 percent could not name the student body president. 
"Student government is laughed at," said Javier Oliva, district five senator, "Many students don't take it seriously." Oliva said he believes this year's senate has done more than any recent senate. Oliva cited the student-run general store and t­shirt shop as examples. 
However, students "just aren't paying attention," said Oliva. 
In the first 17 meetings ofthe sen­ate this year, all of which were open to the public, less than five students attended. District four senator Tom Abood said, "People should take more interest." 
Another reason cited for the lack ofstudent knowledge about student government is the difficulty in get­ting the senators' newsletters into the hands of students. Paul Healy, district one senator, said, "If there are two people in a room only one will get them." 
District two senator Pat Browne issued 18 newsletters. They were either never delivered to the mailboxes or thrown away, accor­ding to Browne. 
Healy said many ofthe senate's ac­tivities are "too trivial, and not worth reading about." Bertino said, "People don't want to read Observer articles" concerningsenate activity. 
Bertino said he feels many stu­dents are just not interested in who represents them, and that "only at election time" do students care. "They lose interest after the elec­tion," Bertino said. 
Abood said students take interest "only at peak times" when their senator has done something newsworthy. 
Abood believes the results of the poll may have been different iftaken at a different time and he would like to see a more comprehensive poll with more students involved. 
juniorJerry Murphy ofGrace Hall feels there is apathy among the stu­dent body towards student govern­ment. He and freshman Paul Cottey, of Cavanaugh Hall, admit they don't take student government that 
see f'OLL, page 4 

The 
Observer Friday, February 1, 1985-page 2 


In Brief A few ideas for Commencement 1985 
The Navy ROTC change-of-command ceremony took place yesterday afternoon in Stepan Center. The event marked the transfer of command from Midshipman First Class Robert McMonagle to the new Battalion Commanding Officer, Midshipman Second Class Michael Leary. Leary, a Marine option candidate, is a junior from Philadelphia in the Program of-Liberal Studies. Prior to attending Notre Dame, Leary served four years in the Marine Corps.. 
The Observer 

The \Vhite House intruder' Robert Latta, ar­
rested last week after strolling un-invited into the White House, "hears voices" and spent time in a mental hospital last june, accor· ding to documents filed in District of Columbia Superior Court. Latta, a watt·r meter reader, was arrested one floor below President Reagan's living quarters on Jan. 20, just hours before Reagan was sworn in for a second term. He was found in a ceremonial area ofthe White House near where the president took the oath. Psychiatrist Norman L. Wilson, who interviewed Latta in his cell, reported that Latta had told him "he wanted to enter the White House to see the president." He had been in a mental hospital in June and "he hears voices saying, "You blew it," Wilson said. -AP 
The comatose youth shot with three other teen· agers by Bernhard Goetz last month in a subway train had a $50 million lawsuit filed in his name Wednesday against Goetz. Lawyers for Darrell Cabey, who is in critical conditions from his wounds, said they filed the state court suit "to temper the wave of adulation" for Goetz and say Cabey was shot in the ba~k even though he never went near Goetz. Police, citing witnesses' accounts of the Dec. 22 incident, have said the youths stood surrounding Goetz while one demanded the money. -AP 
Solldarlty fonnder Lech Walesa and the 
outlawed union movement's underground leadership have called for a nationwide, 15-minute work stoppage on Feb. 28 to protest government plans to raise food prices. The call came in a joint state· ment by Walesa and the Solidarity Temporary Coordinating Com­mission, known by its Polish initials TKK, circulated to Western correspondents in Warsaw on Wednesday. It is believed to b,:: the first time Walesa has joined a strike call since before martial law was imposed and Solidarity was suspended in December 1981. ·AP 
Of Interest 

Nico Castel, a highly acclaimed character tenor and staff diction coach of the Metropolitan Opera Company, will present a vocal diction master class from 10:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., tomorrow, in the Uttle Theatre of Moreau Hall at Saint Mary's. The workshop is open to the public and is free. For more information, contact Carol Belland, assistant professor of music at Saint Mary's, at 284-4627 or 284-4632. -The Observer 
Housing contracts are due in the Administration Building, Room 315, by 5 p.m. Monday, Feb. 4. Contracts tucned in 

after the deadline will NOT be included in 
Observer 
Weather 
Say hello to February. There will be a 50 percent chance of snow today with a high from 8 to 14. Tonight and Saturday, a.40 per­cent chance of snow with a low from zero to 5 above and a high in the teens. -AP 
The Observer 
lbe Observer (USPS 599 l-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. lbe Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dam~ and Saint Mary's College. Subscription• may be purchased for 130 per year ( 120 per se· mester) by writing lbe Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
lbe Observer is a member of lbe AMoclakd Press. All reproduction rii!IIL• are rc:sc:rved. 

room picks. · The 

Today's issue wa.• produced by: 
Design Editor................. Maureen Murphy OesignAssistant .................. Andi Schnuck Layout Stajf...........................Janette Burns Marie! Labrador Tom Hall 1)pesetters ...................... Bill Highducheck News Editor............................Tess Guarino Copy Editor...............................)ohn Heasly Sports Copy Editor .......... Theron Roberts Viea'fJoint Layout................)ohn Mennen Features Copy Editor ..........John Mennell Features l.ayout....................)ohn Mennell Mary Healy ND Day Editor..................... Kevin Winters SMC Day Editor............ Maggie O'Connell Ad /Jesign ............................)ohn O'Connor Mary Carol Creadon PbotogrRpber ............................ Carol Gales Typist................................ Bill Highducheck 
Although the announcement of this year's com­
mencement speaker is probably two months away and 
May 18th is even further, many seniors are picking up 
the topic of who will be the keynote speaker for the 
event that celebrates their four years ofhard work here. 
What if I, or some other plain old student, were to 
make the decision on whom to invite? What would we 
consider in making the choice? 

Obviously, that is not the case, but the question still 
remains. How is this man (or woman, as the case may 
be) chosen? 

I don't think information is distributed on what kind 
of profile Notre Dame wants in its speaker. The 
qualifications are probably very broad in scope, yet 
since University President Father Theodore Hesburgh 
is intimately involved in the choice, what are the 
criteria he uses? 

So, in order to satisfy my curiosity, I spoke with Fa­
ther Hesburgh personally. 
I've always thought that 
my peculiar name was a det· 
riment to meeting people, 
so I wasn't surprised when 
he asked me to repeat 

Choosing a
"Theron" after I identified 
myself. 
Hesburgh was quite open in telling me what he looks for. "We want to get some­one who is a household name. When Ronald Reagan came here, the news was carried across the nation," he explained. "We'd also like the person to have a point-of-view that is ofinter­est to the students." 

"The hardest part is fin­ding someone with a Notre Dame connection. Sometimes we find someone with one, and sometimes not." 
So far, he's on the right track in my book. And Notre Dame has been very succesful at attracting such people. Everyone remembers Reagan, then Canadian Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau and Chicago Archbishop Joseph Bernardin. They all were great selections. 
Come to think ofit, the person whom I'd like to have there the most is Father Hesburgh himself. In the first two of three formal occasions held on campus during a student's four years · freshman orientation and Junior Parents Weekend· this year's senior class has not seen Hesburgh fully participate in either. 
Father john Van Wolvear celebrated Mass upon our arrival to Notre Dame. Father Hesburgh presided over the Mass during our junior-year doldrums, but did not say the homily and was rushed out the doors ofthe ACC afterwards, presumably on his way to another impor­tant destination. 
Theron Roberts 
Sports Copy Editor 
He assured me he would be at commencement, though, along with the chosen "great" speaker. Yes, fel­low seniors, our commencement destiny has already been written. 
After a disappointing, if not controversial, person made the address last year, I am getting pretty curious thinking about who will speak to the graduates. 
I'm sorry the class of 1984 was the victim ofthe Loret Ruppe experiment. Evidently, Notre Dame was a late entry into the commencement speaker sweepstakes. But if that result led to lan­ding a more suitable person to take the speaker's plat· form this year, that's fine
~ with me. 
I I I I Too bad I didn't get in I' ' touch with Father Hesburgh a little sooner. I could have lent him a couple of household names · my great ideas on the pecfect choice. 
How about Joe Montana? Nearly everybody remem­bers the fine career he had playing football for the Fighting Irish. Those who don't surely heard Notre Dame mentioned along with Montana's name in the Super Bowl. 
Or maybe rock star Madonna, whose name is even similar to that ofour Uni­versity. I know a lot ofpeople anxious to hear her views on the upcoming U.S.· Soviet nuclear arms talks. 
Let's just say I'm glad not to be responsible for making the selection. I'll stick to bringing up the subject over lunch and worrying about making it to graduation day. 
The Obseroer publishes its official opinion in the form of an unsigned, large-print, wide­column article on the Viewpoint page. These columns represent the opinion of a majority of The Obseroer editorial board. All other columns, on the Viewpoint page or other­wise, are the views oftheir authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board or The Obseroer staff. 

Give to the 
UnltedW'ay

• United Way 
Save the DOME! 
We're looking for abroad pictures from each ofthe last two semesters. If you can help, please call the DOME office, 239 -7524, or call Sue at 4035. 


r••••••••••••••••••"•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••..••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
The Finance Oub Proudly Presents: The 27th Annual Finance Forum 
Monday. feb .f. 1985 -4:00 PM: 
Mr. Steven G. Rothmeier, Pres. &CEO, Northwest Airlines Inc. 
Tuesday. feb_ 5. 1985 -4:00PM Mr. John K. Moore, Chairman & CEO, The Beach Bank Tuesday feb. 5. 1985 7:30PM Mr. John S. Poellcer, Pres. & CFO, Citizens & Southern Georgia Corp. 
AU presentations are in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium. Public Invited. 
1 ................................................................................................................................................................................................ . 
---~----------------------.---------------­
-----------------------------------.--------~----~--------------------~ 
Observer Friday, February 1, 1985 -page 3 
Survey alleges discrimination in local housing com)Jiexes 
ByMARCANTONEITI the report was "to let people discriminators that the commis­tion concerning the apartments campus. News Staff know that there was somebody sion is alert. would be removed from the of­Saint Mary'.s provides similar looking out." Bueno hopes the report will fice's listings of rooms available housing information to students 
South Bend's Human Rights Bueno also said that presently dicourage any future discrimina­in the area, Wajszczuck said. moving offcampus. Commission has said it will fol­no legal action is planned against tion. Liz Adams, an off-canpus stu­Bueno said anyone, "even if low up on a report released last the eight un-named housing Elizabeth Wajszczuck, ofNotre dent advisor at Saint Mary's, said they just suspc:ct," they are being week stating eight of 18 area complexes, and that the survey Dame's office of off-campus she had not heard ofany discrimi­discriminated against should apartment complexes allegedly was conducted for "educational housing, said she had not heard of nation against minority students contact South Bend's Human engage in some form ofracial dis­purposes." any discrimination against who desired to move off campus. Rights Commission. According crimination. According to Bueno, the sur­minority students who wished to In fact, according to Adams, a to Bueno, tht: commisssion will 
According to Micheal Bueno, vey served to alert the public that move off campus. surplus of rooms has been investigate all complaints. housing specialist for the com­ways to combat discrimination If a landlord engaged in dis­created because of the large "Discriminating is against the mission, the primary purpose of exist, as well as to notify potential criminatory practices, informa-numbers of students moving off law, and it is bad business." 
Chernenko condemns 'Star '"fVars' program as an 'aggressive concept' 
Associated Press of an uncontrolled arms race in all the other side and deprive it of a ca­directions." pability to retaliate in the event of WASHINGTON -Soviet President Reagan has defended the pro-nuclear aggressions against it." Konstantin Chernenko, in a direct gram, known popularly as Star Wars, H .d th S · if challenge to President Reagan, con­as a research venture designed to de-e sal ~ ovlets, compe1led, termine whether the United States . would d? their u_tmost to protect the
demned the U.S. "Star Wars" pro­
gram yesterday as an "aggressive 
could be· shielded with futuristic coun~ s secunty. as well as allies and fr1ends. "But one should face the
concept" designed to achieve U.S. technology from attacking missiles. 
truth," Chernenko said. "The
military superiority over the Soviet Future presidents, he said, would 
militarization of outer space would
Union. have to decide whether the goal was 
upset the Soviet-U.S. treaty on theattainable and defenses should be
In an interview with Cable News limitation of anti-ballistic missile
deployed. Reagan agreed with visit­
Network, the Soviet leader said "to systems, which is ofunlimited dura­
ing British Prime Minister Margaret
put it simply, the aim is to acquire a tion, as well as many other interna­
Thatcher last December that there
capability to deliver a nuclear strike tional agreements presently in
would have to be negotiations on
counting on impunity." force."
that point with the Soviets first. · 
Chernenko. said the U.S.-Soviet But Chernenko, without referring At the behest of the Soviets, the negotiations set to resume on March to Reagan by name, challenged the administration agreed to discuss the 12 could solve the problems of nu­U.S. leader's description of the pro­Star Wars program in the Geneva clear weapons, but only if steps are gram as well as Reagan's justification negotiations. But U.S. officials have taken to prevent the militarization of of concentrating on missile defense emphasized it was not "a bargaining outer space. as humane and moral chip" for Soviet concessions in other
The Observer/Carol Gales

Winter sculpture Otherwise, Chernenko said in "Using the term 'defense' is jug­areas. written replies to questions submit­gling with words," Chernenko said. The talks v.ill deal also with Soviet
Even though extreme cold ts expected again this weekend, 

ted by Stuart Loory. CNN's Moscow "In its substance this is an offensive, radar and missile defenses, as well as
freezing temperatures can havebenefits. The tee decorating the side 
bureau chief, the Strategic Defense or to be more precise, aggressive long and medium-range offensive
ofSarin Hall may not be much consolation when the temperature 
dips, but then again, there's only 44 days left until Spring Break! 
Initiative "would become a catalyst concept. The aim is to try to disarm nuclear weapons on both sides. 
i~D!!"'O!!""'~YO~U~RU~N-i

r--;O:~::;~;A:--1 

: with your :
I I 
Buy 15 visits I IIWALKMAN?" :I at$40 I Now you con protect your invest-: men! and rid yourse~ of the annoy-oI get5FREE 1 ances: tar11;1ied cords. lnaccessble o
The independent student newspaper serving Notre 
~~~~~~~d f;~~..gg~~~~~~~:

Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for 
with belts or waist clips.

1-------------~
the following position: 
BED SPECIAL 
I 
~~(f) 
Tan with your t!Jc()f!J~ I 
rv(f)
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Valentine ~~r!) I 7 visits $28 I"f9 (or someone else's) () I (reg. $39) I 
c::J I I
Submit applications to Anne by February 7, 1985 at 
the SMC Observer office. For more information, call 

Sound-PAK s a zippered. inslllcited. 0

1--------------1 
weii-padde<t canvas "'PAK'" wnh o

239-5303. 
elasticized straps that hold your o

I COMBO SPECIAL 
portable sle<eo securely to the top! 6 bed & 6 booth : of your che.;t during all spartsll : 
'mN-HAWAl&N I 
sun tonn1rg solon I 1 
visits $49 · I : SOUND-PAK :
I 
o flts ste<eos up to 4"x5": Blue. Red oro
-plus-I
277-7026 : Green. Adjustable. Send 517.95 plus o2 bed & 2 booth I 0 S1 past. to Sound-PAK. Box 66. : 
e Observer experience necessary. 
o Williston. VT 05495. 

.____R•E•D•E•E•M-B•Y•F•E•B•.•l•4•,1•9•8•5___l_::~~:::~~---J : MONEY IIACK GUARANTEEIII : 0 
•
: 
BLACK CULTURAL ARTS FESTIVAL
: 


'We Want to 
Praise Him' 
• 
A celebration of Gospel music with performances by South Bend area churches 
i Sunday, February 3, 7:00pm 
Library Auditorium
i 


Berkeley offers land and plumbing to area denizens of motor vehicles 
The city and the residents of "Rainbow Village" along a two-block stretch ofsemi-industrial Fifth Street also are trying to keep quiet about the location of the lot. Castellanos said the lot is about 18,000 square feet, fenced, and has portable toilets and showers. 
Details -such as who pays how much for towing disabled vehicles to their new home, shower rentals and other costs -were worked out yesterday but some people were already moving in on Wednesday. 
The campaign to move the denizens of "Rainbow Village" began when local residents and busi­ness people began complaining that the neighborhood had been taken over in the past two years by the un, employed, transients and others living along the street. 
The newcomers have complained that they can't afford to pay local rents and have nowhere to go. A 
Men's Hair Styling at its finest ... minutes from campus ! 
Haircut, shampoo, 
272-0312 
& blowdry
277-1619 
545.B Terrace lane 
$8.50
(St. Rd. 23) Acro!>S from Martin's (hair must be shampooed day ofcut) 
We are only minutes from campus ! 
sticker on one battered bus read "Bound for the Promised Land." 
"I hate to see them out in the cold, but contrarily, with all the publicity, we're getting a lot of new vehicles coming in," said Marion Hammond, a neighborhood resident since World War II and freelance photog­rapher. Temperatures often get down into the low 40s on winter nights. 
Castellanos said the city was forced to do something, not only to help the homeless but to solve health and safety problems created by people living in close quarters without showers, toilets or running water. 
"We think we're going to be able to provide a humane answer to a very complex question," said Castel­lanos. "The main thing is to get them off the streets and into some loca­tion." 

CIA ••• where your 


OPTIONS 
If you're looking  are as  Bachelor's or  
for a profes­sional environ­ •diverse as  Master's degree or a  
ment that  •  PhD, be a  

your mterestS U.S. citizen
will expand 
your options, not limit them, you should consider a career with the Central lntelli­gence Agency. 
We seek enthusiastic liberal arts majors who are interested in interna­tional affairs as well as the interplay of politics, history and economics in the affairs of mankind and nations ... individuals who will make the most of their talents in a wide variety of challenging CIA positions. 

Central Intelligence Agency 
The CIA 11 an Equal Opportunity Employet" 
athletic bouts, and his­toric attractions. 
To explore your options with the CIA, send your 
Recruitment Activity 
Officer (E11) Dept. S, Rm. 4N20 P.O. Box 1925 
Washington, D.C. 20013 
(both self and spouse), and sue­cessfully meet our strict medical and security requirements. 
The CIA offers highly competitive compensa­tion, liberal benefits, and the consistent chal­lenges inherent in a diverse environment. In addition, our location just outside the Washington, 
D.C. area provides you with an abundance of leisure-time options such as cultural events, 
Introducing 
C~MPUS 

SHELL 

VALENTINES SPECIAL Drawing for 1 dozen roses to be given away Feb. 14. No purchase necessary. 
2 Liter coke .........·.... 89 tf w/gas 1 dozen X-Large Eggs .......... 49 t 2 percent Milk ............ $1.99/gal Butternut Bread ............... 95 ¢ 3 Liter RC Cola ............... $1.69 2 packages Cookies ........... $1.00 Party Crackers ................ 99tf lib bag ofchips .............. $1.89 Cigarettes ............ $7.88/carton 
(we carry generic brand) 
Windshield .Concentrate ........ 79 4 
(makes 1 gallon) 
AND MORE TO COME! 

Oil change special: $14.95 Includes up to 5 qts. 10 W-40, oil .filter, lube, 32 ounce Colts mug 
OPEN 24 HOURS 7DAYSAWEEK 


415 Dixieway South (At Toll road Entrance) 
277-7929 
MASTERCHARGE AND VISA 





The Observer Friday, February 1, 1985 -page 5 
FOR RENT 
furnished, 3 bedroom home washer & dryer close to campus 
4 Roommates Needed 
Only $125.00 each 
call287-0148for apt. 
' 

Theindependentstudentnewspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
1985-86 Editor-in-Chief 
Open to any NO or SMC undergraduate in good standing 
Elected by 1985 General Board of The Observer 
Assume position March 25,1985 
Applications must be submiHed to Bob Vonderheide by 5 p.m. Feb. 1, 1985 
The Observer 3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
234-8997 





r---------,
:FREE GLOVES I 
I 

NO PURCHASE NECESSARY 
Bring in this ad for a free pair of leather-faced work g!oves 
I I
(~3.00 retail va!ue) when you join our Rental Club (no membership fee). Rental Club card entitles you to 10% discounts on all rentals at your U-Haul Center. Find us in
I I
the white pages. 

I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I A1ote;Bt~0/1/IHOMj I 
at your U+IAUI: Center
I I 
AP2 •
.. 


Democrat officials meet to (liscuss party leadership and i~nageiJnaking 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Democratic Party officials opened three days of meetings Wednesday and quickly moved toward a test of strength in the four-way race for the partychair­manship. 
While most attention was cen­tered on that contest, members of the Democratic National Commit­tee also were ready to debate whe­ther Walter Mondale's landslide defeat last November was a demand from voters that the party update its image. 
Members of the party rules com­mittee approved proposals that would dilute the power ofspecial in­
terest caucuses and establish the 
Nuns demand apology frorr.L Regan 
Associated Press 
HOLYOKE, Mass. -The leaders of 48 congregations ofRoman Catholic nuns in New England have demanded a "prompt". public -apol­ogy from outgoing Treasury Secre­tary Donald Regan for remarks he made about sisters who run hospi­tals. . 
Regan was quoted in Newsweek as saying, "My heart cannot bleed for many hospitals hurt by limits on Medicare payments, even those run hy Roman Catholic nuns. Their 
·­

TYPING 
Term Papers Resumes
! 

Letters Manuscripts Word Processing 
Call Chris at: 



makeup of a commission to review the rules governing the presidential nominating process. 
Paul Kirk Jr., the party treasurer and a former aide to Sen. Edward Kennedy of Massachusetts, was re­garded as the front-runner in the race to succeed Charles Manatt as chairman. The other contenders were Nancy Pelosi, former chairman of the California Democratic Party; former Gov. Terry Sanford of North Carolina, and Robert J. Keefe, a poli­tical consultant. 
The test of strength in the chair­manship race occured yesterday on the question of whether 25 at-large members of the national committee must standfor re-election before the new chairman is elected today. 
hearts are big, but their heads aren't screwed on tight. Most ofthem need new management." 
Sister Kathleen Keating, chair­woman of the New England Region ofthe Leadership Conference ofWo­men Religious, said the sisters "voted unanimously to express their indignation to Mr. Regan." 
In a letter to Regan, who is to become President Reagan's new chief of staff, they said, "We are ap­palled at your unfounded attack on the integrity and professional com­petency of American women religi­ous ... One need only to look at the history of the United States to docu-
Student Affairs CoJmmittee considers male/femlale ratio 
ByLORIZAPF 
News Staff 
A proposal to increase the percentage of women admitted to Notre Dame has recently been pre­sented to the Student Affairs Com­mittee ofthe Board ofTrustees. 
The proposal, sponsored by Lyons 
Hall PresidentJoan Cahill, suggested 
the number of men admitted be 
decreased and the number of wo­
men admitted increased. 
Cahill presented the proposal to 
the Student Affairs Committee prior 
to Christmas break. 
Recently, Cahill and Cathy David, 
student body vice president, met 
with Terry Keating, president of the 
National Alumni Board, to promote 

Kirk's rivals were united in back­ing a propm.al to require a new elec­tion for the at-large members. The present group, whose terms expired yesterday, is composed primarily of Kirk supporters. 
Kirk has the backing of organized labor. Wh:ile the AFL-CIO an· nounced it was not taking a position in the race, labor officials have been pushing hard for Kirk. 
Pelosi has strong support in her home state as well as from Gov. Mario Cuomo ofNew York. 
Sanford's backing was centered among sou1hern party leaders with additional support from the Ohio and Pennsylvania chairmen. 
ment the unparalleled contribution women religous have made to the health care field." 

.,
,
Sister Keating, president of the Sisters of St. Joseph in Springfield, a teaching order, said the letter to Regan was approved by the Sisters of Providence, who run hospitals in Holyoke and Worcester; the Sisters of Mercy, .another nursing order with hospitals in Rhode Island, Con­necticut, Vermont, Maine and New Hampshire; as well as the Sisters of St. Joseph in Boston, Sisters ofNotre Dame in Connecticut and Boston and Dominican Sisters in Boston. 
the equal access admissions policy. 
The option of increasing the total number of students admitted each year is opposed by Cahill and David because it would push total enroll­ment over the set limit of 10,000. 
Long-range plans for the Univer­sity includt: the addition of one more men's dorm and several more women's dorms. 
The original presentation made by Cahill wlill eventually be sent to each trustet:. The issue will be pre­sented at the February Board meeting by Keating. 
Board member Philip Hawley has shown interest in the topic and will be influential in the board's deci­sions concerning a modified admis­sions policy. said Cahill. 
The Observer 

Administration stops Middle East arms sales 
AsSQC!ated Press 

WASHINGTON -The Reagan ad­ministration is suspending all new arms sales to the Middle East while it reviews the defense needs of Israel and moderate Arab nations, White House spokesman Larry Speakes said yesterday. 
Speakes said the review is ex­pected to be completed in four to six weeks, and that it will not inter­fere with shipments of spare parts and weapons already destined for the region. 
He declined to call the action a suspension of sales, emphasizing that arms shipments would not "come to a scree,·hing halt." 
However, he said the administra­tion would not send any new re­quests for arms sales to Congress while the review is under way. 
"I think we will have to wait until the study is complete before we proceed with any sales request to
,. 
Congress," Speakes said. ,.r The spokesman said the review will not include a re-examination of
r 
r President Reagan's 1982 blueprint for peace in the Middle East. 
The action came as Reagan con­tinued to press his case for the MX nuclear missile system and a large military budget with members ofthe House Armed Services Committee. 
And one day earlier, Reagan promised visiting Israeli Defense 
Garn set for historical trip 

r 
through space
r 
r 
Associated Press

~ 
r 
SPACE CENTER, Houston -Sen. Jake Garn said Wednesday he will be 
' 
~ a "medical guinea pig," seeking pos­sible causes of space sickness, when
r 
r he flies on the space shuttle next
, 
month as the first orbiting legislator. r Garn, a 52-year-old Utah 
,r 
Repiblican, was added to the flight crew two weeks ago as a congres­
r 
sional observer. He is chairman of a
r 
subcommittee that monitors NASA's
r 
expenses.

r 
When his selection was an­
r 
nounced, he said he would like to
r 
r contribute in other ways to the mis­r sion. He said Wednesday the NASA r medical team was delighted and
, 
developed a series of medical tests he will perform on himself in an ef­fort to shed some light on the space sickness that has affected many shuttle astronauts early in flight. 
Garn and the other six crew mem­bers discussed the mission at a news conference and in a daylong series of interviews with rt·porters. They are scheduled to be launched Feb. 20 for a four-day trip aboard Chal­lenger. 
The other crew members are commander Karol Bobko, pilot Donald Williams, mission specialists Dr. Rhea Seddon, David Griggs and Jeffrey Hoffman, and payload spe­cialist Patrick Baudry, a French astronaut. 
Garn said that on launching he will wear a battery ofsensors to mea­sure various body responses to lift­off forces and the sudden entry into weightless space. 
"One will measure if the gut or bowel shuts down," the senator said. "Several shuttle astronauts have vomited, but few of them have suf­fered nausea or perspiration. So we're checking to see ifthe vomiting might be caused by a bowel shut­down." 
He said he also will wear devices to measure blood pressure, body fluid transfer and hrain waves. 
Minister Yitzhak Rabin the president would ask Congress to approve S1.8 billion in military aid for the coming fiscal year. lbat would be an in­crease of S400 million over the 1985 grant level. 
Although Speakes allowed that "there could be changes" because of the review, he said the administra­tion did not anticipate any "fundamental changes in our policy or commitments to the region." 
He described it as a "comprehensive look at security­related issues in the area ... a refined overview." 
Speakes said the study was aimed at providing Congress with a com­prehensive "justification and rationale" for administration proposals in the Middle East. 
He denied that there was any con­nection between the temporary halt in arms sales and the scheduled Feb. I 1 visit of Saudi Arabia's King Fahd. But he added that the study will not preclude discussions ofarms sales to Saudi Arabia or Egypt. 

,~---------------~,
I *Scholastic Magazine I 
I will be accepting applications for* I I Editor-in-Chief. I 
I ******************* I 
II Applications available Monday, 2 I 4 I85 1 I in the Student Activities office. I1 
I *************************** 
Applications due Friday, 2 I 8 I 85 1I in the same office.-ie 1 
\ J 
~~-------------~ 
•******************* 
~ -~ NICK & KENNY'S lf. ~ 
• presents... ._ * 

~ THELAW ~
• * 
~ Friday night-No Cover ~ 
•• • Lunch Special * ** 
• FREE 12oz beer withfood purchase * 
• * 
******************** 
YOUR BEST DEAL TO FLORIDA 
YOU DRIVE (TO THE PARTY) 
$ 
94-5 per room 104-4per room 
INCLUDES: 

• 
Round trip motor coach transportation to beaut1ful Daytona Beach (WE DRIVE Packages Only) We use nothing but modern highway coaches 

• 
FREE refreshments available on the motor coach on the way down (to beg1n lhe party) 

• 
E1ght Florida days/seven endless n~ghts at one of our exclt1ng oceanfront hotels. located nght on the Daytona Beach strip Your hotel has a beautiful pool. sun deck. a1r conditioned rooms. color N. and a nice long stretch of beach 

• 
A lull schedule of FREE pool deck part1es every day 

• 
A full list of pre-arranged discounts 10 save you money 1n Daytona Beoch 

• 
Travel representatives to 1nsure o smooth trip and a good lime 

• 
Opt•onol s1de excursions to D1snev World Epcot deep sea f•shmg. party cru1ses. etc 

• 
All taxes and t1ps 




'lllc Ob!<.ervcr/Carol Gal~ 

Problems in Africa 
The economicproblemsplaguing Africa today Department, Mutambo Mupanya, a fellow of the were the topic ofa panel discussion sponsored by Institute, Diana DeTreville, a visiting Anthropol­the Kellogg Institue last night. The invitedspeakers ogy professor, and Dennis Goulet, who holds the spoke to a large crowd in the Centerfor Social Con­O'Neil Chairfor Education forjustice. cerns. From left is Peter Walshe ofthe Government 
Open to all ND/SMC students 

NOTRE DAME AVE. APTS. 
•
ROOMMATES NEEDED! 
Boys and Girls 
• CaD office 3-6 DAILY 234-6647• 


WE DRIVE (THE PARTY STARTS HERE) 
~ 184-5 per room ~ 194-4perroom 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION AND SIGN UP 


THE GREATEST TIME-THE BEST PRICE sponsored by the Senior Class 
call 239-5136 or stop by 1.5 LaFortune, the Senior Class Office­Mon-Fri, 6-9 pm 


------------------.., 
~i~~~_()__i_ll___t___________________Fr-ida-y,_Fe-bru_~ l,_l9-85--p-~--e7 

Do not come back until you can appreciate 
Dear Editor: 

The letter by one Sister Maurita concerning the students' "reprehensible" behavior at the Notre Dame -DePaul basketball game pro­vided me with a much-needed laugh. In fact, it was more ofan outburst. 
Obviously, Sister Maurita does not under­stand the meaning of the term "home-court advantage." The purpose of home games is to allow students to support their team, which invariably involves taunting the opposition. 
were not meant to be taken literally, we are still faced with his words on the cross: "Father, forgive them, they do not know what they are doing." Perhaps the reference to God as Fa­ther is enough to convince Ms. Pettifer that the whole line is a figment of a male chauvinist's imagination. 
Pettifer may be right when she states that a new breed of non-woman is on the move. Sadly, this new breed seems to be moving away from the heart ofChristianity in its haste to become socially active. Social justice is im­portant, but not as important as our eternal welfare. 
james R. Roche Cavanaugh Hall 
students from being worthily educated. Stu­dents who rely upon federal assistance to fund their education will have one hell of a time paying for four years at Harvard, Princeton, M.I.T., or any other institution in which one year oftuition, room and board can cost more than S 13,000, without such aid. 
The second proposal exhibits the ridiculous nature of these recommendations. By not pertnitting special circumstances to concern student loan approval the Reagan ad­ministration is disregarding that some families have many children or others have extraordi­nary medical bills and that these families rely heavily upon the $2,500 loan to cover the cost ofhigher education. 
The wealthy will continue to indulge them­selves in education while prohibiting the less fortunate, though in many cases more deserv­ing, of the same advanuage. 
I think Barry McCarty, director of financial aid at Lafayette College, best stated the case. In a recentNew York Times editorial McCarty said, "If enacted, these proposals will in­evitably produce a greater stratification in higher education, one based not on ability to benefit from a p~ll'ticular institution but simply on the strength of the family check­book." 
BillA. Krais is a sophomore in the Program ofLiberal Studies atNotre Dame and is a reg­

,1 
1 

P.O.BoxQ 
I am quite certain few, if any, Notre Dame students hold personal vendettas against the members of the DePaul basketball team. 
Congratulations for 
Rather, our booing and other "rude" actions were done in the spirit ofcompetition. 

a job well done 
I can just envision the Notre Dame student Dear Editor: body issuing a formal apology to the DePaul Do you know what I hate? I hate it when team, as Sister Maurita so ridiculously sug­people get mad at students for booing oppos· gests. We would become the laughingstock of ing teams. Just when you think you are bel· the country. ping your own team, someone has to go and 
My advice to Sister Maurita is to avoid tell you that you are "reprehensible." Boy, I watching college basketball in the future, or at hate it when that happens. least until she can appreciate what it is all Unlike Sister Maurita, who found the behav­about. ior of the students nothing short of 
Colin M. Lipnicky praiseworthy I believe that the uproar which 
Pangborn Hall lasted from the pre-game warm-ups to the final buzzer not only helped to raise the level ofexcitement in the ACC, but also the level of

Social justice means 

play. In response to the charge that the students'

less than eternal welfare 
behavior was reprehensible because we Dear Editor: booed, I say, lighten up Sister. I am positive 
After reading Ann Pettifer's vituperative that none of the Notre Dame students had column attacking Mother Theresa and the anything personal against any of the DePaul church hierarchy, I am led to wonder what players. It simply comes down to the fact that induced her to convert to Catholicism. Pet­the students, as fans, have a responsibility to tifer seems more comfortable with the teach­do anything, within limits, that might cause an ings of Karl Marx and Gloria Steinem than opposing player to be nervous, to miss a shot with those ofJesus. or to throw an errant pass. In short, to inform 
When she berates Mother Theresa for ex­other teams that it will be no easy task to win a horting the survivors of Bhopal to forgive basketball game in the ACC. those responsible for the disaster, Pettifer is Once again, I think the student body should taking an understandable stance, but not a be congratulated for a job well done at the Christian stance. How does she explain DePaul game. They were loud, they were Christ's repeated injunctions to turn the other rowdy and they stayed within the limits ofac­cheek, to forgive one's neighbor seventy ceptable fan behavior. Keep it up, everybody! .. times seven times, and to forgive those who And GO IRISH! trespass against us if we wish our own sins to john A. McConvillejr. be forgiven? Even if these words of Christ's Carroll Hall 
Editorial Board  Department Managers  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  (219) 239-5303  Editor·in·Chief . ......... Bob Vonderheide  Business ManagE~r. .......... Dave Taiclet  
Managing Editor ... _..... Mark Worscheh  Controller ..............Dave Stephenitch  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column  News Editor _............ Sarah Hamilton News Editor ............ Dan McCullough Saint Mary's Editor ..... Anne Monastyrski Sports Editor ........... Michael Sullivan Viewpoint Editor ............. Dave Grote  Advertising Manager ....... Anne Culligan Circulation Manager . ... _..... Jeff O'Neill Systems Manager . ....... Mark B. Johnson Production Manager . ........ Chris Bowler Project Manager ........... Amy Stephan  
present "the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters.  Features Editor .............. Mary Healy Photo Editor . ............... Pete Laches  Founded !November 3, 1966  
is encouraged.  



Allow equal access in higher education 
The education ofstudents should be based well as the college or university concerned solely on talent, disregarding a family's finan­make up the difference created by the lack of cial status. Ifa society deviates from this basic Federal financial aid. On the surface this premise ofequally accessible education, then seems fair, however, it is obvious the void it has taken the fatal steps toward the forma­created will certainly be far greater than any tion ofa culture in which the wealthy will be private concern could underwrite. educated while the poor and middle-classes Quite simply, it is ourgovernment's respon­
sibility to aid in the education ofits citizens; if Bill Krais it does not, then education will indeed be lim­ited to the privileged few. 
Yet, the proposals transcend the super­save the whales ficiality of financial matters. They seem to outline the absurd ideologies which the will be forced to live offofunfulfilled dreams. Reagan administration religiously submits to; Two proposals presented by the Reagan ad­that is, a willingness to deprive one ofan edu­ministration to Congress could have signifi­cation while providing another with a gun or cant effects. bomb. Our society must realize the vital im­
The first would put acap of $4,000 a year on portance of education and the inevitable Federal financial aid from all sources -grants results which will follow from the deprivation and loans -while the second would deny ofhigher education. eligibility for Guaranteed Student Loans of Ifthe current proposals are ratified, our col­S2,500 to any applicant from a family with an leges and universiti(:S will assume a stifling income more than $30,000, regardless of one-dimensional nature. Absent from the col­need or specific family circumstances. The lege campus will be the democratic array, the Reagan administration is apparently prepared ethnic diversity, which complement both the to grant education only to those who can af­atmosphere and learning experience. Those ford it, not necessarily to ·those who deserve who add so much to c:ollege life will be denied it. an education and will have little or no oppor­
The first proposal, placing a cap on financial tunity for self-improvement. Meanwhile, aid from all sources, would prohibit needy homogeneity will stJike the college campus. 
Many suggest that private foundations as ular Viewpoint columnist. 
Ifyou have an opinion, why not share it? 
If you would ltke to respond to something Observer, P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556, 
you"ve ri!Qd in The Observer, wby not write a or deltvered to either ourNotre Dame office in letter to the editor. Letters should be well· LaFortune Student Center or our Saint Mary's written, typed, no more than 250 words in office in Haggar Colle,~e Center. length and must bear the signature of the au· thor. Letters wbicb are notsigned by the author The Observer reserves the rlgbt to edit all will not be publtsbed. 
material submitted to the Viewpoint depart· Letters to the editor can be malted to The mentforpub/iq~tion. 
Wi!h dll this fu.ss o~e.r tnt. viq i\ ante. ~hoot1ii~S, !~ bej lr~ni115 


o.n~otte who alfernp{-$ (). mv~~ fn~ deserves wha.t he God%.! HGt-Ha! 
..• wha.t he Goer-z. 1 uei it?
. 
... ~ 
I
... 
If\ I 
' 





Accent 
1985 Keenan Revue shows traditional creativity, variety, talent 
But only a few acts rely too heav­shop quartet adds a new twist to a ily on the standard "fat chicks, no rendition of"When I'm Old and
by Amy Stephan 
booze" jokes. Most skits either Grey."
features staff writer 
focus on new, untried subjects or Some of the more creative ideas take a fresh stab at an old target. showed up in the short, between­ear Col. jackson T. fresh and creative. This year, General Foods, the Dan­the-act skits. "Humanoes," "A Dra­DBeauregarde, Humor and talent blend nicely to cin' Irish, The Obseroer, and even 
matic Reading," "A Welcome We hadplanned to run a giant make this year's revue much more the search for revue tickets are Friend," and other short acts were Far Side cartoon on Ibis page than three-and-a-halfhours of subject to jokes. good for a laugh and kept the show today, but becauseyou seemed so rehashed jokes. That's right, the "The Making ofan R.A." offers an moving. anxious to see a ret,iew ofyour show lasts three-and-a-half hours, inside look at R.A. orientation. In The revue is weakest when it rer1ue i11 today's paper, here it is. but don't worry. The acts are so "Townie," Keenan men look off relies entirely on old jokes and old So getyour black marker well-paced that it's unlikely you'll campus for new material. approaches. Skits such as "Because ready.... even notice the length. "Under the Golden Dome" I'm a SMC" and "MichianaJones and You waited in line five hours to As usual, the humor spares no features a frustrated Domer, an Arts the Temple of Dome" are com­get them. one. The old targets ar£ there of and Letters major and the Queen of prised of the standard fat-Domer, Relax, your Keenan Revue tickets course -dining halls, social life, and the South Quad, as they seek help SMC-chick jokes and would better are good for more than a free beer Breen-Phillips and Saint Mary's from Father Hesburgh. "The Exor­be left out. 
-

at Senior Bar. This year's show is women receive plenty ofabuse. cist" and "Dome-Aid" give us two Technical problems hurt some fresh looks at the alcohol policy. acts. Sometimes the microphones "Keenan Kindergarten" and refused to pick up the lyrics, while "Jeopardy 3 East" aim plenty of in between some skits they picked 
better-than-average jokes at all sorts up exclamations that weren't meant of targets. The audience does for the audience. "Yo' Mama" prob­



ably has some good moments, but the microphones were so bad last night that most of the lyrics were lost. 
There were also more than a few rough edges. "Revolution according to Luke" contains some interesting ideas, but these are lost in the gen­eral disorganization of the act. Many scene changes were somewhat less than letter-perfect last night, and the timing oflighting and music was 
offat times. year's revue. Several acts demand more than applaud during this 
But rough edges are to be ex­r audience participation, and last pected in a production that only has 
, 
a week in rehearsal, and in thenight's crowd was more than will­
r 
Keenan Revue, enthusiasm more you're anxious to try out some new ing to help out. Don't be surprised if than compensates for any lack of 
r
"" 
professionalism.
dance steps after seeing the show.
r 
The standing ovation at the end year, but missing are the Keenan Some old favorites are back this 
oflast night's show demonstrated ~ the success of this year's revue.
Tumblers and Theater-K. Those r dancing, singing Holy Cross priests Variety, talent and enthusiasm 
r and sisters return, asking for "More combine to create a highly enter­r taining show.
Money." And for those who enjoyed
r "Rindercella"last year, this year Regardless ofhow you got your r there's "Beeping Sleauty." tickets -even ifyou waited in line r for hours, served dinner to your
There is no lack of musical talent
r 
favorite Keenanite, or asked a total in the 1985 revue. Several pianists
r 
stranger to an SYR -it was probablyand guitarists perform original
r 
compositions, and some -like Doug worth it. The 1985 Keenan Revue is
r 
r Pishkur -are outstanding. A barber-one show you won't want to miss. 



It's better than burning later 

Music 

•RECITAL. The Notre Dame Music Department will present Carrie Carlson in a graduate violin recital this Sunday at 4 
p.m. in the AnnenburgAuditorium. All are invited to attend. 

Art 

•EXHffiiT. The traveling exhibit "Autochromes: Color Photography Comes ofAge" which is organized by the Library ofCongress, continues this weekend at the Snite Museum. The ex­hibition presents some of the earliest color photographic images made, dating from a time when most people think color photography did not exist. In a nostalgic, almost impressionistic fashion, they capture a world now lost. 
Gallery hours at the Snite are 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Tuesday thru Friday, 1 p.m. to 4 
p.m. 
Saturday thru Sunday, and 4 p.m. to 8 

p.m. 
Thursday evenings. 


The Saint Mary's Art Department Faculty Exhibition continues this weekend at the Moreau Galleries at Saint Mary's. Gallery hours are Monday to Friday from 9:30 to noon and 1 to 3 p.m., and Sunday from 1 to 3 p.m. 
Rev. Robert 
Griffin 
l.etters to a Lonelv God 
Y
ou know that Greenwich Village isn't the permissive, Bohemian place it used to be when non­smokers make scenes in public if you light up a cigarette. Four times over Christmas as I was eating in classless joints, I was asked by diners at distant tables to stop 
·smoking. God wouldn't have given us coffee to linger over if He hadn't intended for us to enjoy them with cigarettes. Four meals were ruined for me by obnoxious strangers, whose air space I wasn't breathing on, who didn't like the idea of my using tobacco in the world they wanted to keep to themselves. Greenwich Village's greatest attrac­tion has always been its tolerance. Now the blue noses are clamoring for smokeless public rooms. I've never met a blue nose I thought was fair. · 
I may be the only priest in America who is fighting for smoker's rights. It's the smugness of non-smokers that drives me crazy, their self-righteousness that drives me up the wall. I've spent three quarters of my life learning to be open minded. I've taken the time to learn respect for lifestyles and minority members whose preferences are wild. Women who wear eye makeup, for example, remind me of the cosmeticians who wax the faces of the newly em­balmed. Nobody who goes with you to dinner should have a face belong­ing on the freshly dead. Men who chew gum should be arrested as a public nuisance. Who wants to watch a wad of Wrigley's shift across the mouth from one bulging cheek to another? Later they'll lose the gum in a place you're bound to step on. Nothing ruins your day quicker than a gummy shoe. I've walked through neighborhoods in the Village where there's been a role reversal; men wear mascara, and girls chew gum. Instead of staying angry, I remind myself that people, despite their crummy habits, deserve my love and respect, and it's none of my business if they're marching to the beat ofa different drummer. "Live and let ljve," they say. Not many folk have been saying it lately to us smokers. 


I wouldn't mind giving up smoking. A cigarette as a friend isn't entirely trustworthy. The first mil­lion cigarettes can leave you cough­ing. The second million can leave you dead. Last summer in the vil­lage, I attended a session ofSmokers Anonymous at the Episcopal Church. People introduced them­selves with their case histories: "My name is Bert. I'm an alcoholic, and I'm gay. You name it, and I've done it, including hard drugs. I've been sober for a year, and clean of tobacco for a month." 
Or, "Hello. I'm Cynthia. I'm a bi-sexual alcoholic just starting the program. I've been sober for a week, and I'm trying to kick cigarettes." Or, ''I'tn Richie. I'm an alcoholic and straight, Tonight I celebrate my tenth birthday on the program, booze-free and butt-free." 
There was a round ofapplause for Richie's sobriety, and he was pre­sented with a cake with ten candles to blow out. In the meantime, I was getting nervous. I wasn't there to present myself as a case history. Before I had to tell them of my pleasant involvement with Pall Malls, they all took a coffee break so 
-they could eat Richie's cake. Half of them lit up cigarettes over the second cup ofcoffee. I could see that Smokers Anonymous as the overflow ofan Alcoholics Anonymous meeting wasn't the place where I could find help, and so I left. I would work harder to give up smoking, if the non-smokers would 
Friday, February 1, 1985-page 8-9 
leave the smokers alone, because smoking isn't so wonderful. The blue noses have begun their crusade, and I'd rather fight them than switch. Wh~tt gets my dander up is that the non-smokers want to leave me no choice. I'm turned off in the way some ofthe women clamoring to be ordained are turned off. They're not passionate to become clergy, but they're as mad as hornets at the Pope for telling them he will not let them be clergy. I'll probably die ofruined lungs, the victim ofa habit dear to my heart only because ofthe princi­-­ple ofthe thing. 
Now, according to Time maga­zine, the R.). Reynolds Company is coming out with the last word in smoking chic -dt:signer cigarettes. In March, Reynolds will begin test­marketing Ritz, a brand that will feature the Yves Saint Laurent logo on the package. The country needs designer cigarett•~s like a hole in the head. As a smoker, I'll be cheering for a company giving those ofus favoring nicotine a status symbol. 
"Why do you do it?" a reporter asked the mountain climbers who were attempting the ascent of Mt. Everest. "Becaust: it's there," they replied. They knew the danger, and they were willing to take the risk. "Why do you smoke· cigarettes?" I couldn't answer, "Because they're there." To tell the truth, I had to go and get them. I do it for the same reasons people do anything foolish, like driving a sports car 200 miles per hour on an icy road: for the poetry of the thing, without which life would be lonllier and duller. Every person nee·ds a controlling vice, to keep the other vices dor­mant. I prefer a v:ice that the Church has never condemned as illegal, immoral ur fattening. The blue noses will kc:ep me smoking until the poetry has burned down to nothing, as wo.rthless to joy as white ash left in tile tray. The altern­ative is to quit, and join the Puritans. God doesn't have room in His wide, blue heaven for the blue noses. I'd rather smoke here, than burn later. 





Mass 

•MASS. The celebrants for Mass at Sacred Heart Church this weekend will be: Father Robert Kennedy at 5: 15 p.m. 
(Sjtturday night vigil). Father William Beauchamp at 9 a.m. FatherJohn Gerber at 10:30. Father David Tyson at 12:15. 


•COMPETION. It's a contest! You can get front row action for free (ifyou get there early enough ofcourse). All of Notre is an Academy Award winner. Sylvester Stalone, Talia Shire, and Burgess Merideth star in this story ofa two-bit boxer who gets a second chance in life by being offered an impossible shot at heavyweight title. Showings are tonight and tomorrow night at 7, 9:15, and 11:30 in the Engineering Auditorium. Tickets are $1.50. 


Dame's hidden talents will be on stage tonight as a panel of judges determine which talents should be recognized and which should remain hidden. The action starts tonight at 7 in the Nazz (basement ofLaFortune). The winners will return tomorrow night for a "Winner's Night" performance. 

-
•LOCAL HERO. Bill Forsyth, director of Chariots ofFire, directed this 1983 film starring Burt Lancaster. The story is described as a comic fairy tale that merrily mixes astronomy and a mermaid with two oil tycoons, a village that wants to get rich, and an old man that doesn't. Showings are at 7:30 and 9:30 tonight in the Annenburg Auditorium. Tickets are 
S2.50. Sylvester Stalone as "Rocky." 
-
Friday, February 1, 1985-page 10
The Observer 

The Obsert•er Notre Dame office. I<Kated on the third floor of l.aFortun<: Student Center, accepts classified ad\'<:rtising from<) a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Obsert•er Saint Mary's offic<:, located on the third floor of flaggar College C.:nter, accepts dassifit·ds from IZ:.~O p.m. until.~ p.m.. Mon­day though Friday. D.:adline for ncxt·day classifieds is ~ p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. either in person or hy mail. Char~:e i~ 1 0 n·nts per five ~·harac·




Classifieds 
ters <:r da ·. 


LOST:WOMAN'S PETITE NO CLASS N.D.'s own Mardi Gras is coming!!! TO ALL OF YOU WHO EAT AT SOPHOMORES ROAD TRIP TO RING. GOLD WITH BLUE STONE INI­February 8th & 9th LAFORTUNE: PIGS DON'T CLEAN UP CHICAGO Feb 16-17 (JPW) Only $24 tor
NOTICES PERSONALS
TIALS, KMK, INSIDE. THIRD FLOOR AFTER THEMSELVES. ARE YOU transportation and hotel close to shopping LAFORTUNE. PLEASE CALL KATHY PIGS? and NIGHTLIFE!! See dorm reps for com­NEED TYPING, CALL DOLORES 2n­
40711 Mardi Gras Dance-A-Than plete Info and to sign up before midnight
SAVE MONEY!! PURCHASE YOUR6045 TEXTS AT PANDORA'S BOOKS,937 featuring: meber the Ski Tean Tryouts? lloned my Feb.4 
PICK UP AND DELIVERY 

LOST: a gold Citizen watch on Sunday SOUTH BEND AVE.,NEXT TO CORBY'S The Danger Bros. brown sweater to some guy on the van ········································ Jan. 27, somewhere batween Zahm and BAR. 233-2342. Friday, February 8th and I can't remember your name. If you SPONGE-BATH--It's not SLOW DEATH 
TYPING CAll CHRIS 234-ll997 

the North Dining Hall. It found, please call have it please call Karen at x2145. but it's close. II even overlaps a bit. Sorry 
Thanks. aboulthat.

Tom at 1244 MAKE MONEY !I SEU YOUR CLASSTYPING AVAILABLE Airbandffalent ContestBOOKS TO PANDORA'S FOR $$ OR287-4082 
found: 1 pair of blue and grey gloves in CREDIT ! PANDORA'S BOOKS,937 Big Prizes I've been /yin' to mysaff It's them and MAUREEN I I can't believe you've never 356 Fitz. Call 4223 SO.BEND AVE. 233-2342. MARDI GRAS Weekend noone else The SOOPER BAND WASTE received a "personal" in your 8 semesters Sign ups start on Friday 1n the Dining Halls BAND This Fri nita-1 1 pm-Nazz Compe-here. You mean NOBODY you've
TYPING 

Lost: A beige wool hat with brown stripes. OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, tition RESCUED from the HORROR of CAL­JACKIE BOGGS Lost sometime Saturday night. It found, CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., Sh•dubeh CULUS has written you? You're the bast 684-87113 
please call Eric at 283-4352. ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. tutor in the worfd-a ... a ..-A CALCULUS SAVIOR!!! THANKS P.C. 
To our favorite quarter bouncers in 1 CD LOST: one pair of black leather gloves on
!!!SUMMER SERVICE PROJECT appli­Morrissey (Pat and Paul) HAPPY, Thomas Covenant, I want your cursed
1/30 somewhere around the an building CCCChhhhhyyyaaaaaaaammmmppppiiiO< JIM EVEN THOUGH YOU SOMETIMES
cations due today to the Center tor Social HAPPY BIRTHDAY!II Go-o-o-o-o Pa­ring.
or Lafotune. It found please call Mike at FORGET OR YOU AREN'T AS NICE AS 
Concerns!!! at... We'll pour this weekend! Paul, we Your buddy, Lord Foul. 
2n-a828. YOU COULD BE YOU WIU ALWAYS BE can't promise you a 7 Friday morning, but 
1 IN MY HEART. HAPPY BIRTHDAY,GOVERNMENT JOBS. $15,000 will 6 do Friday night? We don't KNOW if R•m .18m alias M•d Men,Yo Flo & B.O.: O.C. is the place to be next 
LOST: My Keenan Revue tix. I know year. LUVYAC.B. 
$50,000/yr. possible. All occupations. we can top last week's bash, but it'll be fun Greetings from Westview Asylum. As you 
return is doubtlul, BUT I'M STILL HOPE­

Call 805-687-6000 Ext. R-9834 lor infor­trying! (NO way, YOU guys!) Love and know, it's your birthday and the warranty 
FUL! SO, if one of you sweeties out there Just probing my dear!!!!!! 
mation. Happy Birthday, Eileen, Erin, Kathy, Lisa, on your brain expires at midnight. May I 
-wants a great date( don't think it blind but MILK and STOLl: A GREAT COMBINA­
Margot, Mary prescribe heavy drinking to celebrate this 
expanding) caff me John at 3592 orcome ANOI, We love you. TION
PRO-TYPE Computerized typing service ancient Peruvian religious festival. Sin­
by 336 Morrissey for an interview. Oh

277-5833 Thank you Anne M. for the Keenan reveiw cerely. Dr. lma Numscull. 
you'd make me so happy! I'll pay cash, I'll Tim, now that you're 21, you can try some­
tickets. You are too kind. V.G. 
do anyrhing ... f'LL SHAVE OFF MY Larry, You say all the right things. the thing a little stronger than MILK. 
BEARDflll thank you Loved one Life is a never-ending illusion .. 

MILK and STOLl A GREAT
FUN AND HARD WORK WITH KIDS AS Connie King for junior executive! 
CAMP COUNSELOR. YMCA STORER 

REWARO ... to ba given for finding a pair of the Loved one is on theloose...O COMBINATION 
women's reading classes found about two 

CAMPS IS CARING, CHRISTIAN COM­Better drug the parakeet, It looks like an­
MUNITY SERVING KIDS 7-17. UNIQUE other SPONGE-BATH. 
weeks ago. Call3071 "All freshmen are to be eaten." heyl Do you have purple high-tops, light 
CAMPUS BIBLE FELLOWSHIP: Have brown hair & a black tweedy looking coat FOUND: a red and black wool woman's you ever really studied the Bible? Do you w/a red scarf? Were you waiting by the PROGRAMS: HORSES. AQUATICS, 
SAILING, WILDERNESS ADVENTURE, My name is Eric Macklin, and I am 
scarf. It smells of a nice perfum, so it is Yes we're going to a party party. know its main theme? What is God's globe in the BA bldg Thur around 12? If so
INTERNATIONAL EMPHASIS. FOR presently incarcerated at Florida State
assumed to be a nice woman's scarf, so message to the problems of 1985? We I want to meet you! JOH 
FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Prison, P.O. Box 747, Starke, Fla., 32091. 
cetl3071! discuss this every Tues. evening at 8:30
We need a roommate for next year...
ANN WIEDEMANN AT 283-3032 I am 25, 5'8" and 154 lbs. I have no family
p.m., 1210 Garland. Rides leave 8:15
Groat OC house... You mustlovo the sun­HOTPIZZAII
or friends and would like to write toTo Whomever Found My Wallet In The shine(sopmething we don't have In p.m., E. door of library, N.D.; 8:15p.m.,

AN OFF-CAMPUS BOWLING LEAGUE anyone. My favorite pastimes include 
Parking Lot: I desparatefy need that $200. SB) ...A collection of Beach Boys and foyer of McCandless, St. Mary's. Call233-Happy 21st Meg. Seven courses of pbj,
IS BEING FOAMED ON TUESDAY singing, writing songs, playing keyboards 
PLEASE return it to the lost and found or Jan&Dean albums is a must... Call Le at 4537 for more info. wine, and great friends. What more could 
NIGHTS AT 9PM. CALL 289-5379 OR and Sax, and studying archaeology. 
272-0734 FQA SIGNUPS AND INFOR­

the law school, no questions asked. Lori 2577 for further info you possibly ask for! 
L. Guzzo

MATION. DEADLINE IS SATURDAY, Sprlnpteen F•ne:Born in the USA LIVE 
Help educate a child who is unable to 8 DAYS UNTIL THE THIRD-ANNUAL­
FEB.2. tape(90 min),16 songs,$8. Call
LOST PACKET OF STUDENT BB TICK­learn himself! Join the Neighborhood YOU GOTTUM KEENAN REVUE TIX, BRUCE-TURNER-BIRTHOAY-BASHI
2036.Aiso,new titles In for sale or trade. 

EXPERT TYPING 2n-a534 AFTER 5:30 ETS. SECTION 103 REWARD CALL Study Help Program and tutor in the WE GOTTUM DATEfl Me Bob, you Girl. LEIGHANN SMC 4451 South Bend community. We need tutors, Me no got no tlx. We wantum go real bad. KATHY A.-THANKS FOR MOVING
THE DRYLAND BLUES BAND 

We need you! Many times available. You go, me go, wehavumfun. Youclillum BACK TO MY SIOE.DON'T WORRYWOROPROCESSING AND TYPING Bill Browne 
272-8827 Transportation provided. Call Debbie 1067 before Great Sun rises in East. ABOUT THAT STUPID EDITO­
Mel Tardy 

Ooherty·-3563, Annie Shaughnessy --RIAL.HAVE FUN IN L.A. FAN FROM 106 
Mark Schippits Auditions are now being held for the new Dave Oziejowski 
4234, or Seymour Pigott--1580 for more 
info. It's not just a job, it's an adventure! ANNE S.-MISSED YOU AT THE GAME!HOPE TO SEE YOU BACK IN 
movie, "NO BAND GOES TO HOLLY­John Berestka 
WOOD!" Call Edmund lor more detail! JAMIE-DON'T MUMBLE WHEN YOU Dave Scott 
(Ha-Ha. you guys believe everything) LIE.-MO&CP Mark Orosz 
FOR RENT 

Tired of the Notre Dame Alphabet? A ACTION SOONICATCH A NICE TAN IN CHANGE IS COMING !! LA.KEEP ON SHAKING BABY! YOUR
John McEachen FAN FROM 106 JAMIE-IT'D NEVER STAND UP IN Tonight, 10:20, The NAZZ, the alternative Blondie: Help! I see you everyday. I want 

Nice furnished homes for next school COURT.-M&CP CHEM 115 will never be the same! 
to meet you. Desc: Blond, stunning, blue "SOMETHING ELSE". Aher the Keenan 
year. 277-3604. EMIL! I 
eyes, GREAT LEGS, cute laugh, Revue, come see us at the Nazz Competi­sometimes wears a West Point shirt. Who tion. We're the Glee Club BARBERSHOP are you? QUARTET, and we're on at 11:40. Totally 
LOST/FOUND 

JAMIE-WE CAN'T HEAR YOU. ·M&C 
new songs-we're sure you'll enjoy us! LOST: One tear-shaped gold earring be­HUNGRY? CAU THE YELLOW SUB 
JAMIE-BA HA HA HA!!!I!! -M&C 
tween Lewis and lhe Oedit Union.. It WANTED 272-4453 FREE DELIVERY MO-TH 8-BW(Yes, Beth, that's you): Why don't you 
found please call Anne 2624 1 1 pm FR-SA 8pm-1 am ditch those conglomerated beings and start going out with a real man? Trees are SPONGE-BATH--a new generation of 
LOST Rhinestone necklace on Sat. night, Next time remember-for dogs, not girls like you? A Friday after­something or other 
LIAR, LIAR, PANTS ON FIRE. 
the 19. PLEASE HELP !!II Needed: one roommate to live O.C. next noon greeting from 3M, a.k.a. HP if you $$$$REWARD$$$$ Call Cindy at 272-year in a 6-room house ... Rent: $80 plus IT'S RYSER, OR IT'S WRONG !!I!! read the script. P.S. Smile! HAMM'ST~ FEST! Keenan Halll After
ATTENTION ALL OFF-CAMPUS-ITES: 
6084 utilities ... To qualify you must be a Sun Saturday's Revue! CALL SEAN TIER­
WE'RE HAVING A VALENTINE'S DAY 
Belt-type person who hates the winter and TICKETS: Need TWO tickets for the LISA-To the BEST roommate at Notre NEY at 3387 for details! 
DANCE ON FRIDAY, FEB.8,1985 AT 
loves the beech and surf ...Must like to lis­Syracuse game. I need these Dame!!! Have a GREAT 19th Birthday!!! 
THE AMERICANA YOU CAN PUR­
CHASE YOUR TICKETS FOR $10 AT
ten to the Beach Boys and Jan & Dean .. desperately!!! My girlfriend is coming up Love, Beth RUBBLE,tho not deserving of HELP! REWARD' LOST MY Call 2577 and ask for Le .. and will kill me (not to mention things she friendship,l'm begging forgive-
THE REECORD STORE INCHRISTMAS GIFT! I LOST MY LADIES WON'T do ) if I don't get these tickets. THANK YOU TO THE KEENANITE WHO ness,QUAG.
LaFORTUNE. FOR INFO. CALL RACE
GOLD WATCH FRI. NIGHT, POSSIBLY ,3 Please help out a fellow Domer who GOT ME THE TWO TIX! Love ya, Laurie 
272-0734.AT THE SUBURBS CONCERT. PLEASE RIDE NEEDED hasn't seen his baautiful girlfriend in a THOUGHT WE'D FORGET YOUR CALL WANDA ]4058.HELPI long, LONG time!! Call Dan at 2275 today! Thankyou, St. Jude. BIRTHDAY? YOU SHOULD BE SO If you are going to I.U. Bloomington this LUCKY!! weekend, either 2/1 or 2/2 and returning ALL O.C. STUDENTS: THE UNOB­SPONGE-BATH imported exclusively for 3HAPPY BIRTHDAY LORRIE WRIGHT! LOST: Blue NO Bag.Contains 2 Sharp 
2/3, please call Louisa at 1330. SERVED should BE COMING IN YOUR anyone who wants it: 202 Holy Cross 1 REMEMBER.. TRUE PARTY calculators (adentilic and solar), pencils 
MAILBOX ... IF NOT, PLEASE PICK UP 3122 Eric Evans (News Agent) ANIMALS ALWAYS DRINK ONE MORE and pena.Loat probably at Dining 
RIDE NEEDED HIGGINS : You're a go---mn discrace! THIS VITAL DOCUMENT AT THE OBUD PITCHER THAN THERE ARE PEOPLE Halls,Galvln, or Stepan Chern. on 
You're just worthless and week Now drop DESK IN LaFORTUNE. WHAT DO LINDA EVANS, CHERYL AT THE TABLE. HAVE A GREAT 22ND December 21.Prove me wrong that NO and give me 20!! What do you want to do LADD, CATHERINE OXENBURG and YEAR!! 
students are thieves and return to NO lost CHICAGO with your life anyway? Remember-AL­J. weston THE GOODYEAR BLIMP. HEATHER LOCKLEAR HAVE IN COM­and FoundorCaiiTomat 1524 after lOam 

NEED A RIDE TO DOWNTOWN COHOL ABUSE IS NOT PRETTY!! MON? THEY ALL CALLED TO WISH TIM 
MWF or aher 2:30 pm on weekends. 

CHICAGO OR THEREABOUTS. NEED "MILK" HANLON A HAPPY 21st TO LEAVE FRIDAY AFTER 4PM. Who you gonna call-FLO-MONSTER!! BIRTHDAY! DON'T BE THE LAST ONE 
3THE FRENCH SONG!

PLEASE PLEASE CALL LISA VERY ATTENTION! TWO SENIOR GIRLS TO WISH THIS FLORIDA STUD HAPPY 

1 ATTHENAZZ

EARLY IN THE MORNING OR VERY Yo Flo! You're getting your letters all LOVE TRI-MIL BALLS. FOR TWO FUN BIRTHDAY. GOOD GAME, MILKER.
Loat: A pair of NIKES (Mid-tapa) Basket­

VERY LATE IN THE EVENING. PLEASE wrong. The key letters for next year are DATES CALL MARY AT 2851 AND FROM THE GUYS 
ball shoes. White With blue and red TERESA & TARM AT THE NAZZ GOOD
KEEP TRYING TO CALL BECAUSE SHE not A.A., but rather O.C .. It's where you KATIE AT 2935. YOU WON'T REGRET 
stripes. Last seen at the mens locker LUCK & LOVIN' CATHY ANN 
IS NOT HOME TOO MUCH! (SHE GOES belong!!! IT! HAPPY BIRD-DAY CHRIS FOX!!!IIIove, 
room al the Rock. It found please calf Cliff 

TO THE BARS WAY TOO OFTEN) Colleen, Erin, and Tricia 
at 1436. TO THE GUY WITH THE PIERCED EAR 
THANKS!!!!! THE PHONE NUMBER IS SENIOR SKI TRIP TO SUGAR LOAF IN THE 9:30 SOCIAL PROBLEMS
283-3033. MOUNTAIN!! SPOTS STILL AVAILABLE OH, VALENTINE! HAROLD B. AUGUSTINE LIVES IN 
CLASS AT SMC-YOU MAKE TUES­
MARCH 1 ,2,3 $25.00 DEPOSIT SENIOR FLORIDA, so to meet this famous fun­LOST MAROON AND GRAY PLAID DAYSANOTHURSDAYSMOREINTER­
WANTED: one housemate for Campus CLASS OFFICE--1.5 LAFORTUNE Beat the ruah....come up to The lover go to FT. LAUDERDALE OR
WOOL SCARF WED IN LAFORTUNE 

ESTING. OR THURS. MORNING IN SOUTH 
View Apts. next year. Must be casual & MON-FRI 6-9 . Observer and pl•ce your V•lentlne'a DAYTONA BEACH with the STUDENT 
laid back but not a couch potatoe. Call Day pe,.on•l lhla w-. We've aet ACTIVITIES BOARD! THESE TRIPS
DININGHALL PLEASECALL2116. 
"PEANUTS" CREELY-THANKS FOR

Mike ]277-3877 or Steve ]1509. BEST TIME-BEST VALUE: WHERE: eelde • apecl•l category Ju•t for you to ARE THE QUALITY TRIPS. ONLY SAB 
HELPING ME MAKE SNOW ANGELS LOST: GREEN SWEATER IN CUSHING, 
DAYTONA BEACH!! WHEN: SPRING get real gooey with your heartthrob. OFFERS WHITE SOX BASEBALL, ST. 
TWICE ON FRIDAY. BEWARE' THE ROOM 208 IF FOUND, CALL JOHN AT 
BREAK 'f\5. WHO: ALL ND/SMC STU­The apecl•l dey Ia Thur8day, Feb. 14, PATRICK'S DAY PARTIES, GET 
FISH 2198 NO QUESTIONS ASKED 
DENTS. CAU 239-5136 OR STOP BY butevold long linnend come In tod8y. TOGETHERS WITH OTHER UNIVER­
SENIOR CLASS OFFICE, 1.5 SITIES, SCUBA DIVING TRIPS, DAY 
LAFORTUNE, MON-FRI, 6-9pm. BOAT EXCURSIONS CAMPING TRIPSFOUND: Sliver rlnv •t the Rock over 
IN THE EVERGLADES, AND THE FA­FORSALE ] TAD HONEY-here's the personal you'YF MOUS ALUMNI VAN! GO WITH SAB the WMkend. Cliff John at 2083 and 
Identify to c:lllfm. DEAR MR. GOODWENCH. YOUR longed for-look out lllini, HERE COME:. FOR THE GREATEST TIME. Call SAB orHey Buddy, It's baen a gr11at first year and 
REPLY WAS STUPID, UNIMAGINA­THE IRISH!! 1nquire at the Record Store for more infor­many great more to come! I Love You 
LOST: A ladiea' Pul881 watch with a blue TIVE, AND CLASSLESS. BUT THEN band and a gold face. Loat sometime AGAIN, YOU ARE A DOMEA1 TRY Muchas!! Your Pal 
mation. 

Friday afternoon. It found please call Lisa KASTLE RX TEAM Racing SkiS(190's) 1 happy birthday MARK MALONEY stop M.B.V.-Let's get together this AGAIN! LOVE, MRS. GOODFRENCH at2998. year old .Will sell for $125 (Orig.$225)call reading commando magazines, I'm 
weekend,o.k.? give me a call. -yourworried about their effect on you-1 pity
3008 Purple Rain friend OUFFBUSTERS! 
LOST: A lll8cll 8nd White Slberf8n your children-lots of love, your favorite From St. Louis to Notre Dame, With 
Hueky. Age 5 monll18. Welgha 45-50 FOR SALE TRANSAUDIO BELT cousin p.s. stop screening my dates birthdays they came, Today we celebrate CHICKS DIG JAN FARREU BECAUSE 
DRIVEN TURNTABLE W/0 the same, And we're gonna name
pounde. Arw_. to 1118 n11me HE RARELY WEARS UNDERWEAR, 
"SHINDIO".Loeton 1-27-851nlhe8,_ CTG.CHEAP CALL BEAVER 2225 DANA BAINBRIDGE, BILL BARnETT, names.. AND WHEN HE DOES, ITS USUALLY JENNIFER BIGOTT, CAROL BROWN, 3HAPPY BIRTHDAY LISA AND BETH!!!! 
of Eat Nh8ml StrMI. If apoll8d, fo­Thank you, :st. Jude, for prayers SOMETHING UNUSUAL. celed, or found p-cell Dave at232· MARY DALUM, ANNE GALLAGHER, answwered. 1 07311. DREAM IF YOU WIU THE PICTURE OF 
MATT GRACIANETTE, KRISTI HEFT, BOB HENKE, VERA HILLEGASS, Thank you, St. Jude. 0 
JEN HERB DANCING AROUND THE KATMY HUMM, BARB STEVENS, 3MTL-­
ROOM IN A PURPLE MACRAME BIKINI. LOST Black trench coat at Corby's on BYRON STEVENS -plaaaa-Shirley Q 1: Would you stick your finger in a 1 Happy Birthday!!! PIX FOR SALE, CAU DR. GYNA 5183. Jan. 14.1th8dallolmy I.D.alniteoplease TICKETS In The Observfll ASAP. leaking Dyke? 0 2: Would your finger get 
3YTL 
1

return u 110011 as rx-aible. R-111d of­wet? KELLY 0', MR. GRIM SAYS ... 
-
DO PALM TREES, TROPICAL BREEZES, AND WARM STARRY Studants of the female persuasion: HELP! Need 3 Syracuse va NO tickets. NIGHTS BRING OUT THE ROMANTIC Beware! Zahm Half's Hidden Hearts LOST pr. of SALOMON SKI BOOTS in d1 Please call Terry at 1991! IN YOU? THEN GO WITH THE STU­LOGAN VOLUNTEERS: We 
fered. Cd Kay •t 2903 or 2939. 3STUOYI 
were Dance is coming up on Feb. 9. Ba ready to 

student lot Mon. afternoon. CaN M111k at DENT ACTIVITIES BOARD, "THE snowed out last week, but don't despair: hear from your favorite Zahmbie for the 17871n312 Dillon THANKS!!! BIG BUCKS need 4 SYRACUSE stud tlx LEADER IN ENTERTAINMENT" TO FT. this week we will be prepared. SATUR­big costume dance. ATTENTION ND/SMC MASOCHISTS: call Mark x1204 LAUDERDALE AND DAYTONA BEACH. DAY at 9 am, we need everyone back for CAMPUS CRUSADE FOA THE CLAVE FOUND ON JR CLASS SKI TRIP: SAB offers the most quality for the lowest SNOW REC. Corne prepared (dress Cllmpu• CruUde for the Cleve WANTS YOU. ONE PAIR OF RED I SKI SUNGLASSES 
URGENT! Need Syracuse Tix!! cafl1584 price, $299 and $199 respectively. Call warmly) for TUBING and FUN in the Join now. No previous experience neces­Must have read the Thomas Coventant PLEASE CALL JOHN AT 1150. SAB or inquire at the Record Store for SNOW. New Volun-. Welcome If sary books by Stephan R. Donaldson. HELP... NEED TO TIX FOR SYRACUSE more info. CALLED 1818 LOGAN VOLUNTEERS: We were ND/SMC ~: Join the Cllmpua MARDI GRAS snowed out last week, but don't despair; Thoma Robert located som-here in CruNda lor 1118 Cleve to~ on your 
H8ve 5 SYRACUSE G.A.s. Wilt sell this week we wiU be prepared. SATUR­the British Isles, Greetings from South hero, Thoma Covenent. HERMAN'S CAP in LA FORTUNE Tun­chop. Celt Fran 2598 MARDI GRAS DAY at 9 am, we need everyone back for Band, Denny·s just isn't the same without
It you discovered • BLACK GREEK FIS. MARDI GRAS 
MARDI GRAS SNOW REC. Come prepared (dreu you! Cl-aregoing well, so 8fe Wlld­Cllmpus Cruaadefa for the Cleve and 117 CAVANAUGH or C8fl 1m. NEED 2 STUD OR GA FOA SYRACUSE MARDI GRAS "'lllmly) for TUBING and FUN in the nncley nighll. Chow for now...the aula­other Thomas Cov-nt lana: here·a a tip TMANKSI CAU JOANNE 2800 SNOW. NewV....,_ Welcoone f! tent. 
dey night,.,_ return It to CHAIIUS8t 

-
----------~----~--~---~---­
---------------------------------~-----------------­

Sports Briefs 
The men's doubles racquetballtournament begins Sunday. Registered players should call the NVA office at 239­6100 for their match times and court assignments. -The Obbserver 
The SMC softball teamwm be holding an organiza­tional meeting on Tuesday at 6:30 p.m. in the lounge of the Angela Athletic Facility.-The Observer 
An interhall wrestling tournament is 
being sponsored by NVA. For information, contact the NVA office at 239-6100. The deadline for entries is Feb. 13. -The Observer 
An interhall swimming meet is being 
sponsored by NVA on Feb. 19. Hall representatives must submit a list ofentries and divers provide a list ofdives to Dennis Stark by Feb. 18. For more information, call Coach Stark at 239,6222. -The Observer 
NCAA basketball tournamentticketsfor 
the Southeast Regional games to be played at the ACC on March 14 and 16 will go on sale today for season-ticket holders. Students may purchase tickets with the general public beginning Feb. 11. -The Observer 
A pool tournamentis now being organized. Anyone who is interested may sign up today in the pool room in the base­ment of LaFortune. -The Observer 
see BRIEFS, page 12 
-----~-~--~... 
Friday, February 1, 1985-page 11 

In Inter hall hockey 
Grace, Alumni win with d.efense 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN 
Sports Writer 
Defense was the key word in the third week of interhall hockey ac­tion. Strong blue-line play and re­sponsible goaltending profited Alumni and Grace Halls in both of their victories. 
In its first outing of the season, Alumni used tough defensive tactics to down previously unbeaten Zahm 5-1. By bringing its wings back into the defensive zone to assist the defensemen, Alumni limited Zahm to just six shots on the night. After a tight 2-1 first period, Alumni broke the game open with three second­period goals to ease the pressure on netminder Paul Zaremba. Each of Alumni's three lines contributed to in the victory as John Keltenmark, Brian Aquado, Mark Nemec, Bill Nemec, and Tom Krus each re­corded single goals. 
Charlie Hackett notched Zahm's lone tally. Hackett has scored in each of Zahm's three games, includ­ing two game-winners. 
Alumni captain Ed Domansky said his team's long layoff didn't affect its play. 
Pizza Hut~ Delivers a Deal. 
For our friends at Notre Dame. 

is rolling now with free delivery-right 
to your door. Just call the number below enjoy your Pizza Hut!) pizza along with the special savings. 
HOURS: Friday and Saturday -4:00 pm -2:00 am thru Thursday -4:00pm -12:00 M 
Limited Delivery Area Drivers carry no more than S20 



Free Delivery Call: 232·2499 
r-~--------------------------,
A 6-Topping Supreme Combination Pizza for a 1-Topping Price! 
Get a Pizza Hut' 6-topping Supreme in any size for the price of a 1-topping pizza in the same size. 
Please ment1on coupon when ordering. One coupon per party per del1very at participating Pizza Hut· Special Delivery'"' umts. Not valid for dine-in or carry-out. or m combmation with any other P1zza rlut' offer Limited Oeliv'!ry Area. Our dflvers carry no more than $20. Offer good only on •egul~r mPnu orices through 
Coupon Exp" e~ February 15, 1985 
Cash value 7120' 7985 P1zza Hut. Inc 

CALL: 232-2499 
~----------------------------~ 
"Everyone was really excited to fi­nally be able to play. We had scrimmaged the night before the Zahm game and lost," Domansky said. "It didn't really bother us, though. We got ~together and realized that now it was for keeps. We wanted to to go out and play someone for real." 
Goaltending was the key in Grat:e's 3-0 victory over Flanner. Grace came out flat after tying a tough Off-Campus team last Thursday, but goalie Pat Chura thwarted Flanner's bid to catch Grace on the rebound. Grace got balanced scoring from Lance Wil­liams, Jim Rataczck, and Kevin Stone in the winning effort. · In other action, Jay Lewis of the combined Cavanaugh-Howard squad scored in the final minutes of the third period to tie Morrissey 2-2. Morrissey had held the lead on goals by team captain Ted Gradel and Tim O'Brien. 
Track 
continuedfrom page 16 
standing Irish sprinters are sopho­more Robert Nobles and junior Van Pearcy. 
In the field events the pressure will be on senior James Patterson to win the long jump and triple jump as he did last year. High-jumper lloyd Constable is also expected to con­tinue his winning ways. 
Saturday will also mark the return of sophomore Jeff Van Wie, who is coming back from a severe car acci­dent. He won the 800-yard run last year and will compete in the 1000 tomorrow. 
"Although the game was a tie, it was really fun to play because both teams were so evenly matched. It was really competitive throughout," Gradel said ofthe game. 
In the only other game scheduled for earlier in the week, Fisher for­feited to Pangborn due to lack of players. With the forfeit, Fisher's record fell to 0-4. With the two points, Pangborn gained a share of the Corrigan Division lead with Stan­ford and Zahm. Alumni is two points behind the leaders. Alumni and Stan­ford faced each other late last night. In another late-nighter, Off-Campus tangled with Morrissey. 
Cross·-country tour s,et 
Today is the last day to sign up for a cross-country ski trip that is being sponsored by Non-Varsity Athletics. Rather than the usual course around the golf course, the trip, which is scheduled for tomorrow, will in­volve a trek over to Saint Mary's and around the nature trails behind the College. 
For $2, sJdi,ers can join the trip which includes a hot dog and hot chocolate stoJP along the way. It should last from about 10:30 a.m. to 2 or 3p.m. 
Skiiers who wish to participate 
must sign up and pay the fee before 5 
p.m. at the NVA office in the ACC. The trip is recommended only for those people with some skiiing ex­perience. 

ULTRA SAVER I:ARES 
*Let us show you how inexpjensive it is to fly for Spring Break. 
*Fly home for the Weeken4il. Call and find out the ridiculously low rates!! 
Seven Seas Tr·avel 
525 N. Michigan 232-7995 


PROBLEMS IN EATING 
THERAPY GROUP 
Are You Familiar With Eating Disorders? Are you concerned by soma or all of the following? 
Awareness that your eating pattern is abnormal. and fear of not being able to stop eating voluntarily. Spending an inordinate amount of time thinking about food. Consumption of high-caloric food during a binge. 
Hiding while hinging. 
Repeated attempts to lose or mnintain weight hy severely restrictive diets, self-induced vomiting, or use of cathartics or diuretics. 
Anxiousness, depression, low self-esteem or loneliness which are dealt with through eating. 
Eating disorders aHect females and males but is more prevalent among youn~ women. 
A 12-week struclurt·d th('r."'p-..; ''rnllfl meeting every Monday, be­ginning Monday. February 4. 1985 ''" the Notre Dame campus. 
Limited Enrollml.'lll. 
Contact the Counseling <liHJ Psycholov,Lcal .lanuary 25, l9BJ fnr Jnrurm;ltion :md nn 
For further information contact: 
Mary Theis, M.A. 
or l'at Dunn, M.A. 239-7336 
Services Center by interview. 

I• 
-~~ ------~~-------~-~-~---­
-

--------~­
The Observer 
Briefs 
continuedfrom page 11 

The ND Women's Track Club will hold its 
annual indoor invitational meet today in the ACC Fieldhouse. Manchester (Ind.) College, Goshen (Ind.) College, North Park Col­lege (Chicago), St. joseph's College (Rensselaer, Ind.) and St. 'lbomas Aquinas College (Mich.) will participate. The meet will start at 'i p.m.; workers are asked to report at 4:30p.m. -The Obseroer 
The SMC basketball team will play host to St. 
Francis College tomon-rJw at I:3"0 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. -The Obseroer 
A cross-country skiing tour is being held 
tomorrow by NVA. The deadline to register at the NVA office is today. -The Obseroer 
.. 
The SMCtrack teaniwill be holding an informational meeting on Monday at 4:30 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. Anyone who is interested may attend. -The Obseroer 
A bowling league for off-campus students is being formed. The league will play on Tuesday's at 9 p.m. beginning next Tuesday. For more information, call Doug at 289-5379 by 
tomorrou•. ·The Obseroer 
By KATID.EEN NICHOLSON 
.\ports Writer 
The annual Saint Mary's-Notre Dame swim met"t should be another fine display of women's swimming from both campuses. Traditionally the rivalry between the two schools has not been a close one, however, with the Irish women getting the best of the Saint Mary's team. 
'lbe Belles will be entering the meet on Saturday after a post­Christmas loss to Calvin College on january 23rd. The team wa~ sched­uled to face Albion College in Mic­higan on January 25th but severe weather conditions hampered their trip and the Belles continued to prepare for the Irish. 
The women from both teams were able to train together when Notre Dame and Saint Mary's traveled to Sanjuan, Puerto Rico for a I 0-day, intensive training session. 'lbe Belles were able to get four hours of water time each day due to the optimum weatht"r conditions 
and Coach Dan Flynn thinks this will 
help them during the rest of the 
season. 
"The trip went very well," Flynn said. "We had excellent training facilities and I think the girls are now in good physical shape." 
The culmination of the San juan trip for both teams was a competion held at the Pan American Games Natatorium which featured more than 20 teams from all over the United States who had trained in Puerto Rico over the holiday. 
Although the Belles are missing their top two swimmers from last year, Gail Casey and Rosie Whalen, senior captain Ellen Byrne will try to lead her teammates to a high-scoring competition. Byrne will be seen in the short-distance freestyle while teammate juniorjoyce Murtagh will try to better her performance in the middle-distance freestyle events. Sophomore Kathleen Kennedy, hampered by an elbow injury, will attempt to swim her specialty events in butterlly. Freshman divers Ann 
Friday, February 1, 1985~-page 12 

Chargers to avenge losses 
Hockey team travels to Huntsville 

By ED DOMANSKY 
Sports Writer 
HUNTSVILLE, Ala. -Both the Notre Dame and Alabama-Huntsville hockey teams have had a chance to play at each other's arena. And each time the home team has emerged with a sweep. 
Last February, the Irish ventured to the Von Braun Civic Center unde­feated in Central States Collegiate Hockey League play and hoping to win the league title. 
The Chargers were also unde­feated and had the same thoughts on their minds and came away with 6-5 and 6-4 victories before raucous 
crowds  in  excess  of 6,000  each  
night.  
Hoping  to  avenge  those  two  

defeats, Notre Dame welcomed Huntsville to the ACC for two con­tests on Nov. 30 and Dec. 1 of this season. The Irish more than made up for the defeats in the South by taking convincing 10-4 and 8-4 wins. 
Notre Dame is once again back here in Dixie, but this time there is no league title on the line. The Irish 
SMC-ND rivalry set in swim meet 
Dugan and Susan Ridenhour will see some stiff competition again on the boards when they face the experi­enced Irish women. 
With the current season record at 0-2, the Belles are eager to test their improvement from their San Juan training trip and tomorrow's meet will be a good place to do it. The Belles will not only be facing the rival Irish team but an even bigger opponent -the clock. 
( 6-14) are out to prove that they are 
a better team than their current 
record shows. They would also like 
to find a way to end the jinx which 
has left them winless in 10 tries away 
from home this season. 
"I think we'll see a much better 

club than the one that was at Notre 
Dame at the end ofNovember," said 
Irish head coach Lefty Smith. "We 
will have a very difficult time down 
here." 
The contests between the 

Chargers ( 14-6) and the Irish have 
regularly emerged a~ hard-hitting, 
penalty-filled affairs, but this time 
each coach is emphasizing the im­
portance of staying out of the 
penalty box. 
"We're looking forward to a good 

series," said Huntsville head coach 
Doug Ross. "Notre Dame is a good 
team. They really took it to us in 
South Bend in some penalty-filled 
games, so this time I'm telling our 
kids that if we get a solid effort, take 
advantage of our chances and stay 
out ofthe penalty box, we'll do fine." 
"Officiating is a very difficult thing to predict in this area," said Smith. "It can have a very big effect on the game. But the way to avoid prob­lems is to keep sticks down and not get cheap." 
In the series at Notre Dame, 57 penalties were called, 28 against the Irish. 
But one aspect which Smith was pleased with despite all of the penalties was the fact that I 0 of 18 Notre Dame goals were scored in specialty situations, either on the powerplay (four times), or while each team was shorthanded. 
Huntsville is led by sophomore right wing Dave Wallenstein with 23 goals and 33 assists. Left wing Mike Finn is four points off the pace with 
3 I goals and 21 assists. Center Brian 
Kelly holds the third spot with 48 
points and I 7 goals. 
Steve Moerner is the top Charger 
goalie with a 3.79 GAA in 11 games. 
Ross is counting on a strong perfor­
mance from him this weekend. 
"Steve was not at his peak the last time we played Notre Dame," said Ross. "This time a good performance from him could help us tremen­dously." 
The Irish will go with junior Marc Guay tonight. Guay has looked sharp in his last two outings, including the 6-3 victory over Lake Forest jan. 23 which stopped an eight-game losing skid for the Irish. 
In the injury department, junior Left wing Dave Waldbillig will be out of action again with a separated shoulder suffered in the second­round loss to Lake Forest in the Forester Classic two weeks ago. 
"Dave's loss will hurt," explained Tim Reilly. "He's a consistent player for us. But if we get a good effort from everyone, we will come out all right." 
It is homecoming weekend, here, and once again crowds in access of 6,000 are expected each night. 
"They're trying to build a program and our beating them kind of set them back," offered Reilly. "They'll be out to prove to their fans that last year was for real. Ifwe can beat them in front ofbig crowds, it will be even better for us." 
Thanks toyou... it works... forALLOFUS 
• Unltadway 


From: Saturday Feb. 16, 11:00a.m. 
To : Sunday Feb 17, 5:00p.m. 
Trip Includes: Roundtrip chartered coach bus. Quad occupancy at the Holiday Inn on Lake Shore Drive. Walking distance to shopping, entertainment and Nightlife. 
Cost: $24 per sophomore. 
Complete P~YMENT DUE BY Midnight Feb 4th. 
Sign up entire quad with any dorm rep . 
Any ND or SMC sophomore is eligible to attend. 
Come Party with the 

• 


The Observer Friday, February 1, 1985 -page 13 
Fencers have chance against NCAA Champ Wayne State 
arrive at based on how well they've Leading tl1e way for the Irish will improved in their weapons -epee be freshman Molly Sullivan and an and foil." overall improving young cast of 
Following the big matchup starters. tonight, the Irish will travel to An­gola, Ind., tomorrow where they will "The women have been coming meet Tri-State., Cleveland State and on slowly but surely," said DeCicco. Oklahoma City. According to "I'm anxious to see them match up DeCicco, the Irish should not have with the Wayne State girls. Wayne too tough of a time with the three State has a strong foil team, and ifwe teams despite an outstanding foil could beat a team like Wayne State, team for Oklahoma City. that will give us the credibility for 
"Their foil team is going to be the rest ofm1r schedule." strong, and that's going to be a chal­lenge to Charles and Mike and Craig Since the inception of the wo­and Dave," said DeCicco. "How they men's fencing squad, the Irish are a handle that will indicate to me how disappointing 1-13 against Wayne good or bad they really are." State. A victory tonight would give 
A scheduled meeting with Oral them a shot in the arm and the im­Roberts in the same "mini­petus for a strong stretch drive. Last tournament" was cancelled after the year the Taters finished 11th in the Oral Roberts fencing coach left that NCAA tourney for women. school at the end ofitslast semester. 
The Notre Dame women's team On Saturday, DeCicco sees no 
will also be -jn action today and to­major problems for the women also. morrow alongside their male coun­Against Tri-State, the Irish are 13-0, terparts as they try to improve upon and against Cleveland State they are their 5-2 start. 6-0. 
Pizza contest tortight 
Now, besides the good basketball and free admission, there is an­other reason to attend the upcoming Notre Dame women's team's homegames. · 
Domino's Pizza will sponsor a pizza-eating contest, which will take place at halftime of three women's games. Semifinals will be tonight at halftime of the game against Evansville which !begins at 7 p.m., and on Saturday, Feb. 9 at 12 p.m. when the Irish face Xavier. 
Finals of the contest will be held on Sunday, l;eb. 17, when Notre Dame takes on Detroit at 2 p.m. Domino's will be giving away painter's hats and cups during games, and a drawing will be held for a pizza coupon. 
Teams of six will participate in the contest, with each team being split into three pairs. Each partner will feed his partner while at the same time eating from that partner. The first team which has all three pairs finish wins and advances to the championship. 

By MICHAEL}. CHMIEL 
Sports Writer 
After a three-week rest, the Irish fencing squads will get back into the swing of things tonight against pe­rennial power Wayne State in Wayne, Mich. 
Wayne State boasts the title of 1984 NCAA National Champions in men's fencing, and there is little doubt that the 19-1 Irish would like nothing more than to dethrone the champs this spring after the Irish finished third in last year's NCAA tourney. 
Due to the harsh weather of a week ago, the Irish were unable to participate in a nine-team tourna­ment at Ohio State. According to Irish Head Coach Mike DeCicco, the Irish might be slightly rusty due to their inactiveness in competitive events. 
"Last weekend, we were stranded here when the snow fell," said DeCicco, "and we didn't get to fence any of the schools that we had planned to in preparation for Wayne State. 
"We haven't had any competitive fencing since January 13. I had planned to have this meet last weekend to get us back on track," DeCicco continued. "If anything, last weekend's sit-out may make us a little stale, and I hate going up a against a team like Wayne State with any excuses not to be at our best." 
Last year the Irish men suffered their only loss in a 20-meet season in a dual meet to the eventual champs, 12-1 5. While the Irish did out-fence Wayne State in the Great Lakes Championships last season and took first in the process, they were outdone in the NCAA tourney, fal­ling short by 15 points. 
Overall, Notre Dame has a posi­tive mark of23-14lifetime against its arch-rivals. 

While the Taters lost some key fencers to graduation and transfer, they have entered the 1985 season with an equal or superior team to last year's squad. 
"Wayne State might be as good as they were last year and maybe even a little better," said DeCicco. 
Leading the defending champions is 1984 Epee Champion Ettore Bianchi. Joining Bianchi are fresh­men Michele Giulietti and Guillermo Lande. This far into the season, the young Giulietti is unde­feated at 1 5-0 and is leading a squad that is 36-9. 
"They've got two kids to go along with Ettore Bianchi in epee that could make them a pretty nice epee team -a very competitive one in fact," said DeCicco. 
According to DeCicco, if Wayne State has a soft spot it is in its sabre squad. In the sabre, Giovanni Girotto (a fourth place finisher in the 1984 NCAA finals) is joined also by two newcomers -Neil Kessler and James Klemic. Bela Kogler who finished fifth in the NCAA's last year, weakened the squad after he trans­ferred during the summer. 
In the foil, Wayne State is strong with returning French fencer Step­han Chauvel. Chauvel, who finished fourth in last year's NCAA foil finals, is joined by Peter Dinsdale and Avore Goldstein. Dinsdale was crowned as the Australian National Foil Champion in 1984. 
"Their foil team is their best team overall right now, their epee team is right behind, and their sabre team is going to be good with Girotto," said DeCicco. "It's going to be a tough one, but we've got some fencers, too. What we have to do is get back into the meet-situation attitude again." 
According to DeCicco, all of his fencers are healthy and prepared to fence. Junior foil captain Mike Van der Velden is back in relatively good form and strength after suffering from an early-season injury. Junior foilist Craig Funai ( 34-24 lifetime) is back from studying in Rome last year, and has surprised DeCicco of late after a 5-4 1985 start. 
"Craig Funai is fencing up a storm and he may be our starter against Wayne State (in the foil) in place of Dave Reuter (5-7)," said DeCicco. 
Other than Van der Velden ( 1 0-4) and Funai in the foil, the Irish will most likely fence 1984 foil cham­pion Charles Higg-Coulthard. At 13­1, Higgs-Coulthard is currently leading all Notre Dame fencers. 
In the epee, senior captain Andy Quaroni ( 1 1'1 ), junior Christian Scherpe (9-2), and junior Mike Gos­tigian ( 8-1 ) will be the likely trio to start. 
In the sabre, senior capatain Mike Janis ( 9-1 ) and junior Don Johnson ( 9-3) will be two of the likely starters on what DeCicco calls "the best sabre squad in the country." Juniors John Edwards (6-3) and Tony Consoli ( 6-6) will vie for the third spot. 
"Last year, their epee team with Ettore Bianchi beat our epee squad 7-2," said DeCicco. "I ·don't see that happening again, and if we could turn that result around and win that weapon, we could be as competitive as we were last year and beat Wayne State. 
"My predicted store is about a 15­12 Notre Dame win. But it would mean that the sabre team is going to do a lion's share ofthe work because in the foil and epee, the bouts are going to be a little bit tougher to 

FIGHTING IRISH TO INVADE FORT LAUDERDALE 
SPRING BREAK CAMPS SET UP AT TWO MAJOR HOTELS Sheraton Yankee Clipper Sheraton Yankee Tra~der 

wave after wave of students descend on Fort Lauderdale...but the smartest check in at the two great Sheratons, where the best doesn't cost more. 

GET YOUR SLICE OF THE SUN BY CAWNG (toll-free): 
1·800·325·3535" 


The Observer Friday, February 1, 1985 -page 14 
Constable changes technique, sets all-time high jump record 

By NICK SCHRANTZ 
.\ports Writer 
Increased confidence and a con­sistent jumping technique have en­abled lloyd Constable to establish himselfas the leading hi~ jumper in Notre Dame history, and only the third Irish performer in 14 years to qualify for the NCAA Indoor Track and Field Championships. 
The senior high jumper achieved this feat last weekend by jumping seven feet, three and one-halfinches in a dual meet against DePaul. Con­stable's leap set a new ACC and all­time Notre Dame record. 
Qualifying for the NCAA's, the goal of Constable and most track performers, will hdp Constable the rest of the year. 
"It takes most people most of the season to reach their goal, and so doing it early takes a load off my shoulders," Constable said. "I had technical problems until now, but now I'm more confident that I can go 7-3 and higher." 
The DePaul meet continued an outstanding season for Constable. He cleared 6-I 0 to win the high jump at the Western Michigan Open on January 1 I. One week later he lept 7-2 to capture the event in a home meet against Iowa. In the Iowa meet he cleared 6-8 and 6-10 to win the event, and then went on to jump 7-0 and 7-2, which was the previous ACC and Notre Dame record. At the DePaul meet, Constable also cleared 6-8 and 7-0. and just missed at 7-'5. 
Blumb 
continuedfrom page 16 
lbe post-John Wooden years have been less than the greatest for the Los Angeles school. Since the retire­ment of the "Wizard of Westwood" in 197'5, the Bruins have had four coaches in nine years, Walt Hazzard being the fifth in this his first year. 'Ibe pressure to win at UCLA is un­believable. Bruin fans have been spoiled by all the winning of the past, similar to the situation here at Notre Dame with football. 
This pressure has had something of an impact ~n the UCLA program. It whittles away on coaches and it seems to scare off prospective recruits in some c·ases. Why should someone play under a magnifying glass at UCLA when he can play in an 
UCLA 
continuedfrom page 16 
Wright is playing just phenomenal 
inside, and between Maloncon, 
Wright and Haley, they'll always 
have two of them in there, so you 
never get a break. 
"But Niguel Miguel's the key to 
this team. When he turns on, I think 
they turn on in certain ways. He 
does a lot of different things for 
them." 
'Ibis week's Pac-I 0 Conference 
Player of the Week, Miguel has been 
virtually unstoppable in UCLA's last 
three games, racking up 51 points 
and I I assists. 
Montcl Hatcher is the other start­
ing guard, but fellow sophomores 
Corey Gaines and Dave Immel also 
see a lot of playing time for the 
Bruins. 
It's a little hard to make the asser­
tion that a team's 17th game of the 
season can be a must-win game, but 
Notre Dame, at 11-'5, could really 
use this one. 
"We need a big road win," Phelps 
says. "We've got some chances com­
ing up starting Sunday with UCLA 
and could really use this game. It 
would be a great win for us, and I'd 
just like to end this string oflosses to 
them." 
March of Dimes 
-BIRTH DEFECTS FOUNDATION­
· 
Constable dearly ranks as the all­time Irish high jumper, both indoors and outdoors. He lept 7-2 in 1982 in an outdoor meet, which is four inches better than the number two man on the all-time list. During in­door meets he has jumped 7-0 three times, 7-2 twice, and his record height -all of which far surpass the next best height of6-I 0. 
Constable entered Notre Dame with impressive credentials and had a fine freshman year. However, he slumped in his sophomore year and was academically ineligible for his junior year. The North Babylon, New York native gives several reasons for his comeback and suc­cess this season. 
"I haven't had any really good years until this year. I was frustrated, and I knew I could do better," Con­stable explained. "This year I have more confidence and I feel more comfortable with my technique. Feeling good about myself really helps, and not letting things bother me helps my concentration. I'm calm and under control, so there's less pressure and I can just think about jumping." 
Despite his fine high school career, Constable had to adapt to a new jumping technique when he en­tered Notre Dame. He credits the new technique for causing some of his problems earlier. 

how I finished over the bar, the steps in my approach, and really my whole style of jumping. It took me three years to get used to it, but this season I feel comfortable with it." 
Constable waits almost two minutes before he jumps, while the crowd waits quietly. The silence helps him concentrate and gives him confidence. 
"When you have a lot of people watching you, you really want to do your best," he said. "Its a real confi­dence booster to see everyone in 

Lloyd Constable 

the stands waiting for you and wan­ting you to do well." 
During this wait, Constable prepares himself for what he has to do to clear the height. 
"I first think about what I did wrong the last jump," he explained. "I think about the last three steps of 
Constable began his track career in seventh grade, where he ran, long jumped, and threw the shot put. He switched to the high jump in eigth grade because he felt the other kids were too fast for him. 
He jumped 6-6 during his sopho­more year at North Babylon High School, which was four inches bet­ter than his previous personal best. He continued his improvement by leaping 6-10 in his junior year. He capped off his senior year and a suc­cessful high school career with a jump ofseven feet, one-quarter inch to win the New York state champi­onship. 
Despite his fine high school career, Constable was not highly recruited. He played basketball during high school, which forced him to miss the indoor track season and only compete in the outdoor season in the spring. However, col­lege recruiters usually start recruit­ing during the winter and he was passed up. 
"Before Notre Dame, only C.W. Post and Syracuse asked me to visit," he said. "It was a freak thing because we had an outdoor meet moved in­doors because of the snow, and I jumped 7-0 in flats. Someone from Lorig Island sent the article in the paper to Notre Dame, and then the coaches called me. I came out for a visit and decided to come here." 
Constable will graduate this spring with a degree in communica­tions, concentrating in film and video productions. The degree has not come easily for him, and even forced him to miss his junior year in track due to academic difficulties. 
"I really struggled in school, and made a few mistakes In studying," he admitted. "But in the long run, I earned my degree and came out ahead. I feel I've matured here at Notre Dame." 
After graduation Constable plans to return to New York and interview for a job. His high jumping career will likely end this year, unless he can find a sponsor to get him the neccessary facilities, equipment, and coaching. 
During grade school Constable watched the world class high jumpers like Dwight Stones, and felt that someday he could jump as high as. them. He set a goal of one day jumping 7-6. With his continued im­provement, consistent technique, and new found confidence Lloyd Constabalc should reach his goal and set Notre Dame high jumping standards higher than he already has. 


"I had an eight step approach my approach, then exploding off the when I got here, which was a bad ground, and finally clearing the bar. I way to jump," he said. "Coach Kelly repeat this until I feel prepared to (an Irish assistant coach) changed jump." 
DOMINO'S PIZZA EATING CONTEST 
WHEN: Halftime of NO Women's B-ball games 
First semifinals: Friday, Feb. 4, 7 p.m. ND vs. Evansville 
DORM COMPETITION 
. 
GIVEAWAYS: Hats, cups, and pizza coupons 
PRIZES: Season pizza pass for winning team 
(Free pizza every week !l 
Winning dorm also gets a free pizza party courtesy of DOMINO'S PIZZA II 




-~-~~---------~ -------------------~--~~--~--------------~~~---------------~----~---­

~4(Jt~C3L~-----------------------------------------F-ri-da_y_,_Fe_b_ru_~
___1_,_19••8-5_-_p_a_ge---15 Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
Campus ; 
Friday, Feb. 1 
•11 
a.m.-2 p.m. -Lunch, Seniors, Faculty & Admin­istration, Senior Bar, Sponsored by Senior Class. 

•4:30-6:30p.m. 
-Mixer, Hispanic American Or­ganization, Lewis Party Room. 

•4:30 
p.m. -Chemistry Department Reilly Lecture, "Design of Molecubr and Macro­molecular Metals," Prof. Tobin Marks, Room 123 Nieuwland. 

•4:30 
p.m. -Earth Sciences Ciuest Lecture, "Geologic Remote Sensing from 1970 to 1995," Catherine Ketcho, NASA Geology Program Manager, Room 101 Earth Sciences Bldg. 



Tank McNamara Je_!! Millar & Bill Hinds 
•7 
p.m.-Basketball, ND Wome:n vs. Evansville, ACCArena. 

•7, 
9:15 & 11:30p.m.-Film, "Rodcy," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, Sl. 

•7:30 
& 9:30p.m. -Friday Night Film Series, "Local Hero," Annenberg Auditorium. 

•8 
p.m. -Keenan Revue, O'Laughlin Auditorium. 

Saturday, Feb. 2 

•8 
a.m. -3 p.m. -Graduate Reco1rd Examination, Engineering Auditorium. 

•1:30p.m. 
-IndoorTrackMidwesternCityCon· ference, ACC Fieldhouse. 

• 
2 p.m. -Swimming, ND Women vs. SMC, Rockne Memorial. 

•7, 
9:15 & 11:30p.m.-Film, "Rocky," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, Sl. 

•8 
p.m. -Keenan Revue, O'Laughlin Auditorium. 

Sunday, Feb. 3 

•6:30 
p.m. -Meeting, "Think Globally -Act Lo­cally," Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by CILA. 

•7 
p.m. -Gospel Concert, Memorial Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Black Cultural Arts Fes­tival. 


, TV Tonigllt 
8:00p.m. 16 "V" 
22 Dukes of Hazzrurd 
28 Benson 
34 Washington Wc!ek in Review 
8:30p.m. 28 Webster 
34 Wall Street Week 
22 Dallas 
28 Streethawk 



Bloom County Berke Breathed 
tlfOif' IT;Rf{Jff£ / wt''V! 60r11 V161~ OIJr TI£Wi EJOI1fJft(& ~~R5! IUIINT f1Ufiii(X(5 ! lliRr! 5CAN0\t.! 
11TTUMIN& PCR50NIIl Ptrlfll5! 
/ 



44 Andersen's 52 Zoo sound 
birthplace 53 Josip Broz 46 "Leave her 54 Newspaper to-" section 

ACROSS 37 Isolated 63 Farm building 12 Tabula-49 Western 55 Presently 1 Luxurious 38 Stage direction 64 Kind of 13 Bishopric Indian 56-Na Na 39 Fair organism 18 Idler 50 Jokester 57 Penpoint 
The Daily Crossword 
5 Totals 

9 Chars 40 "-y plata" 19 Schoolbook 51 Taj Mahal site 58 From A­41 Musicfor
14 -Ben Adhem 23 Granular 15 Adriatic three snow Yesterday's Solution 
north wind 

42 Plebe DOWN 24 Coy 16 Pilasters 43 Bless 1 Parcel's 25 Fjord city 11 Actor's delight 45 Author of partner 26 Plants of a 
"Walden" 2 Orchestra region20 Far: pref. 
member21 Float 27 Papal vestment 22 Cuban dance 47 Cart 3 Human 28 Reason23 Partner of 48 Navy man: abbr. 
4 Attila 30 Slipbyneither 49 Bounding main follower 31 Where Bobby 51 Limp as­5 On deck

24 Tiny sum of Shaftoe went 
53 -Ia Ia 
6 Discardmoney 56 Actor's delight 34 Jap. aamiral 

25 Displeases 7 Mild expletive 36 Aleutian isle 29 Spanish or 8 Fool
59 Steed 38 Verdi opera Western 9 Honored
60 Dies­32 Work hard 61 HRE king 10 Gloss 39 Jolts 
33 Lent a hand 62 Yellow-fever 11 "Three men 41 Harangues 
©1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc.
35 Mauna­

mosquito in-" 42 Cuban dance All Righls Reserved 1/31/85 
: TONIGHT AND TOMORROW NIGHT 
•
•
• 7:00

•••• 9:15 ROCKY 
11:30
•

••• Engineering Aud ••• $1.50 
---·---------~­


S~orts 

Freshman distance runner Dan Garrett (rlgbt) gets tbe inside lane in a five-way meet tbispast weekend. Garrettand his teammates look to repeat as champions ofthe Midwes­tern City Conference Meet in the North Dome oftheACC this Saturday.]ohn Coylepreviews the meet below. 
Irish ·set to defend MCC Track title 
ByJOHN COYLE 
Sports Writer 
The action promises to be fust and furious under the North Dome of the A.C. C. Notre Dame, who will be defending the title it has won the past two years, hosts the Midwestern City Conference Track Championship tomorrow afternoon bcginnign at 1:30 p.m. 
The Irish. however, will face some strong competition from Oral Roberts and Butler. The two teams have finished second and third, respectively, in this meet the past two years and both have several fine middle and long dis­tance runners. 
Leading the way for Oral Roberts will be Kim Berghal, a native of Finland, and Kenyan­born joe Bungei. Scott Harper, who qualified for the NCAA championship, will also be tough. 
The size of the Butler team lends credence to the old saying, "there's strength in numbers." The Bulldogs has over 25 mem· hers and is always a threat. Loyola also has two solid runners in Gary Donzelli and Steve Doran. 
Despite the quality of the op­posing runners, Irish head coach, Joe Piane is confident that his team will be successful again this year. "If they compete and do as well as they can, we should be victorious," says Plane. 
The main reason for Piane 's op­timism is his talented sprinter contigent. Junior Mitch Van Eyken will be looking to repeat his winning perform01nce of last year in the 300-and 440-yard dashes. Dan Shannon, a senior, will try to top his winning time of last year in the 600. Other ous­
see TRACK, page 11 
Friday, February 1, 1985 -page 16 

UCLA looks to extend streak over struggling Notre Dame 
ByJEFF BLUMB 

AssistantSports Eattor 
LOS ANGELES -Ifthe Notre Dame basketball team should beat UCLA on Sunday in Pauley Pavilion, excuse the players for their unfamiliarity with the situation, for no Irish player has ever played on a team which has beaten the Bruins. Notre Dame is 0-7 in the last seven games with the L.A. school and will be looking to end UCLA's recent domination in front of a national television audience on NBC-TV beginning at 3 p.m. EST. 

The Bruins struggled out of the gate this year under first-year head coach Walt Hazzard. They were blown out on the road early this season, first at DePaul and Memphis St. and later against St. John's in New York City. Since a 3-6 start, though, UCLA has rebounded to win six ofits last seven games and now stands at 6-2 in the Pac 1 0 and 9-7 overall with a dare at USC scheduled for to­morrow. 
"This UCLA team is very good and very talented," says Irish coach Dig· ger Phelps. "They have some fine athletes. Early in the season, it was just a case ofsitting into a new situa­tion. 
"Now they're playing some excel­lent basketball. They've just won three big games over Washington, Stanford, and California, and are going to be in the thick of the Pac 1 0 race by the end of the season." 
While this UCLA team may not resemble past UCLA teams in terms ofthe number ofwins and losses, the resemblence to the past is clearly there. The aura of John Wooden remains with UCLA Basketball under the coaching of Hazzard, a former player of "The Wizard of Westwood." 
"The system's pretty much as it used to be. I don't think Hazzard's changed it that much," Phelps says. "He's added just a few wrinkles but it's 90 percent Wooden. 
"It's definitely the Wooden sys­tem. We'll see a zone press and then they'll drop back into a man-to-man. We won't see any zone defense at all. Offensively, it's the same otfenses that were there during Wooden's last four or five years there." 
About all that has changed is the personnel. The Bruins have some fine players left from last year's team that beat the Irish, 51-4 7, at the ACC. Sophomore forward Reggie Miller, perhaps better known as the younger brother of Cheryl Miller, star of the USC women's team, leads Seniors Brad Wright and Gary the UCLA team in scoring and assists. Maloncon make up the rest of the 
The 6-7 Miller throws in 12.7 , UCLA front line. The two, along with points a game and has dished out 27 jack Haley, a sophomore transfer assists to this point in this season. He from Golden West Junior College had career highs in scoring and who is the first off the bench, give rebounding in the California game, the Bruins an imposing inside game. pumping in 23 markers and pulling "Maloncon's having a very good down 10 boards. He has been a hot year," says Phelps. "He hurt us last shooter as of late, hitting at a 62-year, especially on the baseline. percent clip from the field over the 
last four games. see UCLA, page 14 
Women try for home win against Evansville 

By LARRY BURKE 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's basket­ball team will play its first home game in 18 days tonight, and the Irish hope to make it a happy homecoming as they take on North Star Conference rival Evansville at 7 
p.m. in the ACC. 
Tonight's game features the first of several promotional Domino's pizza-eating contests at halftime, but it is Mary DiStanislao's squad that could be in for a real feast. The Lady Aces are just 3-12 this season, and while they have shown some im­provement oflate, they will need an extraordinary effort to overcome an inspired Irish team that is coming off a 79-40 thrashing of Butler W ednes­day night. 
The Irish last played at home on Jan. 14, when they scored a convinc­ing 70-49 win over Illinois-Chicago. Before that, Notre Dame's last home game was a 71-59 victory over Mic­higan State. The Irish are 4-1 at home this season, but only five of their 16 games, and just one oftheir last eight contests, have been played at the ACC. 
The Lady Aces are coming off a 4­22 mark last season but figure to im­prove on that record this season. They have had their best success in North Star contests, where they are 2-1 so far. Evansville has beaten Xavier and Butler this season in NSC games, and flirted with a big upset before falling to Dayton, 63-60. 
Guards Barb Dykstra and Shelly Brand-Adlard are the two dominant players for the Lady Aces. Dykstra, a 5-7 junior, stands eighth in the con­
terence in scoring with a 14.4 
average, and Brand-Adlard, a 5-6 
senior, is ninth at 14.3 points per 
game. Dykstra joined Brand·Adlard 
in the 1,000-point club when she 
broke the mark against Dayton last 
Saturday. Brand-Adlard is also 
second in the league at 6.3 assists 
per game. 
The Lady Aces also have 6-0 Sue 
Rathmacher at center, a freshman 
who is fifth In the conference in 
rebounding at 6.7 boards per game, 
and 5·11 Karla Hughes, who is sixth 
in rebounding at 6.5 per game. At 
the other forward spot is 5-8 senior 
Denise Spear, who averages 10.4 
points per game and has hit 62 per· 
cent of her shots from the field in 
conference games. 
Despite these respectable individ­ual stats among the starters, the Lady Aces have not been very successful · as a team. They rank last in the con· ference in field shooting ( 38 per­cenc), seventh (out of eight teams) in free· throw shooting (64 percent), seventh in scoring (60 points per game), seventh in team defense ( 73 points allowed per game), and seventh in team rebounding differ­
ential ( -11.3 ). 
"Obviously, Evansville has their 
liabilities," says DiStanislao. "What 
we have to do in order to beat them 
is exploit those liabilities. I know 
that Evansville will come in here 
very fired up Friday night. 
"It's very easy to take them lightly, 
which is what I think Dayton did last 
Saturday. Evansville was on their 
own court and they caught Dayton 
by surprise and gave them a good 
ball game. Dayton wasn't ready, but 
we'll be ready. I fully expect 
Evansville to give us a good game." 


Streak-ending upset of 1974 sets tone for classic series 
LOS ANGELES -It hangs there like the aftertaste ofdiet cola. Long and lasting. 
But one win of 1209 in the history ofbasketball at Notre Dame and but one loss of492 in the history ofbasketball at UCLA. Yet, the memory ofthat Notre Dame-UCLA battle on Jan. 19, 1974, still reverberates today as one ofcollege bas· ketball's classic rivalries continues Sunday in Pauley Pavilion. 
In many people's minds, Notre Dame's 71-70 upset of the Bruins in 1974 at the ACC · thus ending college basket­ball's long~t winning streak at 88 games-marked the start­ing point of modern-day Notre Dame Basketball. When he had come to South Bend two seasons earlier for the 1971­72 season, Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps first set his sights on reaching the level of the legendary UCLA pro­gram. Notre Dame's stunning victory gave its program the credibility it had previously lacked, and which it still holds today. 
National champions the last seven seasons and nine of the previous J0, UCLA Basketball was at its pinnacle that fateful January day when the upstarts from Notre Dame rallied to outscore the Bruins 12-0 over the game's final 
3:22 for a win that shocked the entire nation. UCLA was to college basketball what the New York Yankees were to baseball or what Notre Dame was to college football. The 
Jeff Blumb 
Assistant Sports Editor 

Irish had come away with the ultimate triumph, and its effect.<; on Notre Dame Basketball would be felt years into the future. 
The game still lives on in the memory of Irish assistant coach Gary Brokaw, who was the game's leading scorer with 25 points. "It was the most important game that I have ever played in as a basketball player," he says. "That covers over 25 years, including four years of professional ball. "People remember me because I played in that game, not because I played in Milwaukee with Kareem Abdui·Jabbar arui Oscar Robert..o;on. They remember me because ofwhat Notre Dame did to UCLA on January 19, 1974. It's a game that people remember 10 years later, and I'm sure they'll still remember it 10 years down the road. I'll never forget them telling us it was a Notre Dame moment." 
Phelps has repeated the phrase 'Notre Dame moment' many times since, but it was that one game which made possible all those to follow. The series has lost some of the luster it once enjoyed, although Sunday's game still will be telecast to a national television audience on NBC. It un­doubtedly will be a special game Sunday, but there are a couple of reasons why this one isn't likely to match previ· ous Irish-Bruin battles. 
Beginning last year, the series reverted to one game a season. It had been a home-and·home series since Phelps became Irish head coach but that arrangement ended by UCLA's choice. Arizona and Arizona State joined the Bruins' conference, the Pac 10, in time for the '78-'79 season, forcing UCLA to play four additional conference games per year. The Bruins have felt the pinch of playing four more tough games, and decided that it would not be in their best interest to play Notre Dame twice a year. 
Because the teams only visit each other in alternate years, a good deal of fan involvement with the series has dissipated, taking away from the excitement that comes with a UCLA game. The Bruins, obviously, aren't what they once were in college basketball. Parity has overriden domination in the last few years, so UCLA finds itself unable to do what it once did so easily -win national champion­ship after national championship. 
see BLUMB, page 14 





