Top Ten-pages 10 and 11 

VOL XIX, NO. 142 
FRIDAY, MAY 17, 1985 

2,744 to receive degrees at commencements 
Sat. at Saint Mary's 
By TIIERESA GUARINO 
Saint MarJ''S Executive Editor 
Four hundred ftfty·three students will end their col· lege careers tomorrow as Saint Mary's celebrates its 
138th  Commencement  Exercises  in  the  court  of  
LeMans Hall.  
Today's  events  include  the  Nurses  Pinning  

Ceremony at I p.m. in the Church of Loretto and the Baccalaureate Mass at 4 p.m. in Angela Athletic Facility. A reception at the Century Center will be held at I 0 
p.m. for seniors, their families and friends. 
For tomorrow's ceremony, Father J. Bryan Hehir, a principal advisor for the American Bishops' letter on nuclear war, will serve as commencement speaker, and also will receive a honorary doctor of laws degree. The I985 valedictorian, Laura Banas, will deliver the valedictory address. 
Hehir, a professor of ethics and international politics at Georgetown University, served as a consultant for the American Bishops as they drafted their pastoral letter on nuclear war. He is a member of the U.S. Catholic Conference, and has written many publications on so­cial justice and human rights. 
Honorary degree recipients for this year's com­mencement include Edward Hussey, Rosemary Haughton, Monika Hellwig, and FatherJohn Kavanaugh. 
Hussey, who will receive a doctor oflaws degree, was a member of the Board of Regents from I978 to I984. He is president of liberty Homes, Inc., of Goshen, Ind., and is a member of the Advisory Council of the College of Business Administration at Notre Dame. 
Haughton, an honorary doctor of letters recipient, founded a community in southwest Scotland to care for the mentally ill. She wrote and lectured extensively during the sixties, and became involved in the growing movement of "basic Christian communities" in the United States and Canada. Currently, Haughton co­directs the Movement for North American Mission, and Wellspring House ofGlouster, Mass., a hospitality house for people in crisis. 
Hellwig, a nationally known theologian, will return to Saint Mary's for a second time to receive a doctor of letters degree. Hellwig gave the inaugural address for the Center for Spirituality in March, and is an author and professor of theology at Georgetown University. She 
see SMC, page 5 


At top, seniors Doug Regan, left, and John McEachen, sing for their supper. Center, students focus their attention on the im­promptu stage. Bottom, the Athletic and Convocation Center-ly­ing quietly in wait for the 1985 Commencement ceremony Sunday. 

Sun. at Notre Dame 
By KEITII HARRISON JR. 
News Editor 
jose Napoleon Duarte, president ofEl Salvador and an alumnus of Notre Dame, will give the commencement speech Sunday at 2 p.m. as 2,259 snidents take part in Notre Dame's I40th Commencement Exercises in the ACC. 
Duarte, a I948 civil engineering graduate, will receive an honorary doctorate ofengineering degree. Jim Roche, the I985 valedictorian, will deliver the valedictory address. 
Ted Turner, owner of SuperStation WTBS-lV in At· lanta, will address MBA graduates at I 0 a.m. in Stepan Center. Tickets will not be available for the public. 
Guilio Andreotti, the foreign minister of Italy, will speak to Law School graduates at 4:30 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. Andreotti will receive an honorary doc­torate of law degree. 
Nine other people will receive honorary doctorate degrees. They are: 
•
Donald Keough, president and chief operating officer of the Coca-Cola ·company, doctor of Jaws. Keough assumed his current position in 1981. He has been a Notre Dame trustee since I978. 

•Bruce 
Babbitt, governor of Arizona, doctor of laws. Babbitt was Arizona attorney general from I975 to 1978, when he became governor upon the incumbent's death. 

•Roman 
Mazzoli, representative from Kentucky, doctor of laws. Mazzoli was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives in 1970. He was a co-author of the Simpson-Mazzoli Bill, which was designed to reform im­migration laws. 

•Douglas 
Fraser, former president of the United Auto Workers, doctor oflaws. Fraser was the sixth president ofthe nation's second largest union from I977 to I983. 

•Reverend 
Beyers Naude, general secretary of the South African Council of Churches, doctor of laws. Once a candidate for moderator ofthe Dutch Reformed Church, he denounced the government's racial policies in 1960. 

•Gu'Yi 
}ian, secretary general of the Chinese Academy of Science, doctor of science. Gu received his bac­helor's degree from the National University in Chekiang. During the past semester, Gu has been a visit­ing Frank Freimann professor at Notre Dame. 

•Eileen 
Farrell, soprano, doctor of ftne arts. Farrell's 


see ND, page 5 


De~nonstrations planned in protest of Duarte policies 
By KAREN R. MCCLOSKEY against President Duarte because Mary's Peacemakers, "One of the being. They've got the wrong tar­The program for Sunday's 
StaffReporter his government, backed by the U.S. strengths of the rally is that it is a get, the wrong man. My hope for El demonstration begins at 10 a.m. government, is engaging in coalition rally." Salvador rests in Duarte at the mo­Protestors will march in a funeral deliberate policies of indis­Campus reaction to the planned ment." procession from Leeper Park to the 
Demonstrations protesting the criminate bombing of innocent demonstrations has been reserved. The Chicago May 19 Coalition is ACC. The procession should arrive presence of Salvadoran President civilians, even using napalm." Richard Conklin, director of In­made up of ftve Chicago-based on campus by 11 :30 a.m. when jose Napoleon Duarte at Univer· Dahn, who attended Notre formation Services at the Univer­groups: Chicago Religious Task protestors will distribute leaflets sity commencement exercises will Dame for two years before enter­sity, said, "I don't have any Force on Central America, Clergy to those entering the ACC. occur Sunday afternoon on Orange ing the Dominican order, con­apprehensions. We can accom­and Laity Concerned, Chicago Field, south of the ACC. tinued, "The forces of repression modate them and still have a nice CISPES, Casa El Salvador, and Casa At 1 p.m., speakers from seven Organizers of the protest contend continue on regardless of Duarte. ceremony for the graduates and El Salvador Farabundi Marti. organizations will address the that Duarte is involved with For him to pretend he is going to their parents." rally. A member of FDR, the op­
The Chicago group is joined by
repression and violence in El Sal­be able to do anything about it only Conklin arranged to have position party to Duarte's party in
the South Bend May 19 Coalition. 
vador. provides the forces ofterror with a Orange Field availabk for the rally. El Salvador, will be among the
The. South Bend Coalition is en­
Local and national organizations cover." Orange Field was the site of speakers. Three musical acts also
dorsed by several local groups in­
concerned with human rights and Dahn said that Duarte "should demonstrations during President will perform. The activities are
cluding Pledge of Resistance,
Latin America have organized the denounce the real cause of the Reagan's visit in May I981. scheduled to end by 3:30 p.m.,
South Bend and national chapters; 
rally to coincide with the com­problem, the oligarchy, the "They have a <:onstitutional before commencement exercises
Prince of Peace Church of
mencement ceremonies. military, and the U.S. support ofthe right to demonstrate," said Con­are ftnished.
Brethren Church Board; Saint
Duarte's visit has been the military regime." klin. "On the other hand, graduates Mary's Peacemakers; and the 
source ofheated controversy since According to Dahn, "Notre and parents have a right to have a In a related activity, the Notre
Women's International League for 
the February 12 announcement Dame has done a great disservice ceremony not disrupted." Dame chapter ofAmnesty Interna­
Peace and Freedom, South Bend
that the Notre Dame alumnus to itself as well as to the Catholic University President Father tional will be manning a table in
chapter.
would deliver the 1985 com­Church and the people of El Sal­Theodore Hesburgh said, "The front of the bookstore today and mencement address. vador by honoring this man. He only way not to have protestors is Demonstrators representing or· tomorrow. Letters requesting the 
Father Charles Dahn, a member knows what's going on." to invite a nobody. .If we invited ganizations from Detroit, In­release of Salvadoran prisoners of' the Chicago Religious Task Dahn and other Chicago or­the good Lord, we'd have some­dianapolis, Bloomington, will be available for those who Force on Central America and an ganizers contacted local groups to body protesting." Wisconsin and New York also are wish to sign them. These letters organizer of the Chicago May 19 collaborate on the rally. According Hesburgh continued, "Duarte is expected to take part in the will be presented to Duarte tomor­Coalition, said, "We are protesting the Robert Hohl, secretary ofSaint a decent, good, dedicated human protest. row evening. 
f 
f 
r 
r 
f 
~ 
I 
l 
The Observer 
In Brief 
The Notre Dame Alumni Association 
elected Joseph Dillon as the new president. Dillon, a South Bend business leader, will begin his term as head of the 19-member board July 1. The Alumni Association represents all regions of the country and coordinates 175 alumni clubs with membership of ap­proximately 75,000 University alumni. Dillon is a director ofmarket­ing for the engineering and architectural firm ofCole Associates. He is a 1944 business administration graduate and a 1949 law graduate of the Universiry. As president of the association, he will be an ex­officio member of the Board ofTrustees. -The Obseroer 
A fire blazed in Grace Hall Monday, causing 
about 5200 in damages. The fire was blamed on a faulry electrical outlet. Sophomore David Rowland, a Grace resident in whose room the fire began, helped maintenance personnel extinguish the fire. The blaze damaged a mattress, couch, blanket and sheet. -The Obser­tJer 
Former Notre Dame cheerleader Laura 
Bach was selected a..~ second runner-up in the Miss USA pageant Monday night in Lakeland, Fla. Now a computer salesman, Bach lives in Illinois and represented the state in the pageant. Bach expressed her strong beliefs in freedom and American ideals in the question and answer segment of the contest. -The Obseroer 
Father Andre Leveille, director of vocations for the Holy Cross Priests, has been appointed director ofNotre Dame's Office of University Ministry by Father David Tyson, vice president for student affairs. Leveille has been at Notre Dame since 1974, and was ordained a priest four years later in Sacred Heart Church. Leveille was born in Ottawa, Ontario, and was educated in French­Canadian parochial schools before coming to the United States. He succeeds Father Daniel Jenky, who has left the position to become superior of the Holy Cross communiry at Notre Dame. -The Obser­ver 
Saint Mary's has announced that Professor 
Dorothy Felgl, chairman ofthe chemistry and physics department at the College, will serve as acting vice president and dean of faculty. Current Vice President William Hickey will take over as actingpresi­dent for the College, pending the selection of a new College presi­dent. President John Duggan resigned in February after 10 years at Saint Mary's. Feigl is a member of the Search Committee formed last month to select candidatesfor the position ofpresident. -The Obser­
ver 
Of Interest 
The Notre Dame Glee Clubwill present its an­nual commencement concert tomorrow night at 9 in Stepan Center. 'Ibe program was selected by graduating seniors in the Glee Club, and will include a combination of sacred and secular pieces, spirituals and Notre Dame school songs. Admission is free. Because there will be no advance ticket distribution, early seating is strongly advised. -The Obseroer 
Motivational speaker and entertainer 
G. Herbert True, ofSouth Bend, will speak at the annual membership dinner ofthe Friends of the Library at Notre Dame, Thursday May 23 at 7:30p.m. llte program is open to the public and will be held in the Faculry Dining Room of the South Dining Hall. True is the author of three humor books and has been a guest speaker at more than 60 universities. He is currently compiling what is believed to be the world's largest humor collection. -The Obseroer 
Weather 
Promising. lltat's the way things look for this weekend's commencement ex­ercises. A 30 percent chance ofshowers today with highs in the upper 50s. Partly sunny tomorrow with highs in the low 60s. Mostly clear and mild Sunday, with highs of 70 to 75. ­
AP 

The Observer 
Design Editor.........................john Mennell 
Typesetters ...................... Bill Highducheck Mary Ellen Harrington News Bditors....................... , Keith Harrison Tess Guarino The Obeerver (liSPS W9 l-4000) is Copy Editor.................................. Frank Upo published Monday throuKh Friday and .\ports Copy Editors ...........•.......JdfBiumb on home football Saturdays. except Larry Burke during exam and vacation periods. The Phil Wolf Obeerver is puhhsMd by the students or Vlewpoitlt Copy Editor. M. E. Harrington the llnivenity of Notre Dame and Saint Viewpoitlt Layout..•................. Dave Grote 
Mary's College. Suhscripllons may he Features Copy Editors and Layout purch"""d fur 1.\0 per year (no per,..,. Margaret McCabe mester) by writing The Obeerver, P.O. Mary Healy Box Q. Notre Dame. lndaana 46~~6. Ad Desig11 .............•..............Sarah Hamilton 
The Obee..,er is a member of The Mary Carol Creadon AMoclated PffM. All reproduction Photographer............................ Pete Lache' riKhL• are reserved. 
--~~------­
Friday, May 17, 1985 -page 2 

The final written chapter 
Every editor, at least once, has a right to get sentimen­tal. Today I am sentimental. 
Four years ago, as a freshman, I began losing sleep to write for this publication. This year -from March 1984 to March I 985-I have served as editor-in-chief in what truly has been a remarkable, challenging and often over­whelming experience. Today my parents will arrive to say it's over. It will be Sarah Hamilton, not me, to whom Father Griffin will quote Shakespeare when he comes up on lbursday night to check his column. 
"Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown," Father told me on one occasion when our computer broke. I agreed. 
Sarah will have many opportunities for triumph and defeat in the next 12 months; I wish her nothing but the besr. 
But I am not writing now to seek sympathy for the im­perfections that now and then creep upon our pages. I want to share a story about another kind of challenge ­about the challenge of words -a message related by the story ofTrump (his nickname) Troxail. 
Trump is a prisoner at the Indiana State Prison who has two years left in his sentence. He is poor. He spends his days writing letters to newspapers asking for help, but oftt·n he cannot mail the letters because he has no money for postage. 
In January of 1984, Trump wrote to The Observer. "I wanted to know if you would print an add in your paper for me and I don't have any money at all to pay you with! .. What I wanted you to do was to put my name in your paper and see ifsomeone would write to me?" 
We printed Trump's name and address in the classified ads section. I mailed him a copy and wished him good luck. Several days later, another letter from Trump arrived. 
"Hi Bob," he wrote with his red pen on his yellow paper. "Thanks a lot for your help guy! I can't tell you just what it ment to me.... There is some thing that I'd like to ask you. It's just th:at your the first person who's ever wrote me back or even cared." 
Trump then took two pages to ask me for a black-and­white Emerson TV. He said he saw one listed in a Service Merchandise Catalog for S58. "I thought maybe you could run another add for me and see if any one would donate just alittle bit to get me a TV," he wrote. "I hope 

Bob Vonderheide 
1984-85 Editor-in-Chief 
you don't think bad of me for asking that Bob, there just wasn't any one else I could ask." Trump's letter was touching, but I set it aside. Three days later, Trump's final letter to me arrived. 
"It's me again," he wrote. "I'm writing this time to say that I'm sorry. I had no right what so ever to ask you to do what I did in my last letter, please forgive me OK? After I mailed the letter, I thought, ah just let it ride, but my insides just wouldn't leave me alone, so I had to write this letter to you and say that I'm sorry." 
I never heard from Trump again, and he never heard from me. From his prison cell, Trump calls out to world with words in a way just as graceful as Steinbeck or Hemingway. He is stripped of money, friends and hope. And yet it is his conscience that nags at him, and nags at him to write and say he doesn't need a 'IV after all. 
Words have power. They allow our soul to spill over into ink. But we waste so many. Readers this year com­plained to me when we forgot to print the time ofadance or the score of a game. So sometimes I would think of Trump to get keep things in perspective. Words paint hope and descibe despair. They offer forth idea..o;. And it is the advancement of these idea..o; that have since inspired man to publish papers and write letters. It is what has inspired me all along. 
So now as I bid farewell to this chapter of my life, I know deep down that just like Trump I will never be very fac from act ofwriting words. 
This is the last issue ofVolume XIX ofThe Obser­ver. The Observer staff wishes the best for the graduates in their lives beyond Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 


Authentic Chinese Cuisine 
FAMILY DINING OR CARRY-OUT BANQUETS CATERING 
@ 
SAT & SUN 11 :30AM-9PM DAILY LUNCH 11 :30AM-1 :30PM DINNER 4:30PM-9PM CLOSED TUESDAYS 
RESERVATIONS WELCOME 


256-5576 
2620 LINCOLN WAY W. MISHAWAKA 
----~----~------------~--.-----------~~~­
The Observer Friday, May 17, 1985-page 3 
ND, SMC valedictorians get the last word this weekend 
By FRANK LIPO 
CopyCbtef 
The two valedictorians of the Class of 1985 will have the last word to their classmates this weekend -an honor given to them because of the high grades they have achieved during their four years at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Saint Mary's valedictorian Laura Banas will deliver the valedictory address tomorrow at Saint Mary's commencement and Notre Dame valedictorian jim Roche will deliver the valedictory address Sunday at Notre Dame's commencement. 
Banas, who has a grade point average of more than 3.9, has been working on her address this week. She said she has been thinking about a theme since she was named valedictorian, but it has taken an "intensive two days work" to ac­tually put her thoughts on paper. 
"I was getting kind of jealous of everyone hanging loose (after ex­ams). I had to go to the library to write my speech," said Banas. "Basically it's an optimistic speech. It's sentimental, but it gives you hope," she said. 
Banas said she tried to write an address which will be different. "Everybody always talks about making a new beginning," she said. "I use a very different analogy. I think it's going to be original," she said. 
STANLEY H. KAPLAN 

AIEPUTATIIII THAT IPEAII FIRITSELFI 
-

~--------------------------------------~ 
Roche, who has a 4.0 gude point average, said he was required to sub­mit a first draft of his add1ress to the provost approximately one month ago. "I finished it last week," he said. 
"It's going to be really short -less than three minutes," said Roche. He said his address will focus on-the blessings and opportunities ofNotre Dame students and the respon­sibilities that go with them. 
"I don't consider myselfa genius," said Banas. "I probably put in five hours of outside classwork a day. It was a lot of hard work," she said. "I never set being the valedictorian as a goal. My short range concerns were studying hard and malting good grades. I concentrated on those short range goals," Banas said. 
The size and atmosphere of Saint Mary's helped her academic ac­hievements, according to Banas. "Ifl had gone to a bigger school, I wouldn't have had the same atten­tion," she said, citing the small classes and individualized attention of the College. 
Roche said, "I never really thought about it (being named valedictorian). I knew the chances of escaping without getting one 'A-' were very small." 
Banas is a French and history double major from Granger, Ind. She has been vice president of the Saint Mary's French club and has tutored high school students. She plans to take next year off and work to save money for graduate school. She eventually will work toward a Ph.D. in history. 

Roche is an electrical engineering major from St. Paul, Minn. He has been active in Notre Dame's neigh­borhood study project, the College Bowl television quiz and intramural football and volleyball. For three of his four years, he has placed in the top 25 students in the annual Put­nam Math Examination. The nationwide test is usually taken by more than 2,000 students. 
He has received a fellowship from the Office of Naval Research which he will use at Stanford University. He will pursue a Ph.D. in electrical en­gineering. He also received a Na­tional Science Foundation fellowship 
Ted Tut·ner to address MBA grads in'other'conmnmencenmentspeech 
By STEVEN THOMAS 
News Staff 
Entrepreneurial broadcasting magnate Ted Turner and Giulio Andreotti, minister offoreign affairs of the Republic of Italy will address graduates at the Masters of Business Administration and Law School diploma ceremonies, respectively, this Sunday. 
Dean Frank Reilly of title College of Business Administration said he thinks that Turner is a good choice because he is an exciting, well­known individual. Reilly noted that he is particularly interested to hear 
Open at 11om for Lunch 

You've been studying for Domino's Deluxe 
hours. The pages are 5Jtems for the price of 4. blurring and your stomach Pepperoni. Mushrooms. is stirring. So why not take Onions. Green Peppers a break and call Domino's and Sausage Pizza? We'll be there with 12" deluxe$ 8.55 a hot, custom-made pizza 16" deluxe $12.35 in 30 minutes or less. Guaranteed! All of our 
Electives pizzas are made with 
Pepperoni. Mushrooms. 100% real dairy cheese 
Black Olives. Onions. and fresh, not frozen, 
Green Olives. Sausage. toppings. Now isn't that 
Ground Beef. Ham. Green 

worth contemplating! Peppers. Double Cheese. Extra Thick Crust 12" p,izza $ .89 per item 
Menu 16" pizza $1 .29 per item 
All Pizzas Include Our Coke't16oz. bottles.
Special Blend of Sauce 
e. 59¢.

and 100% Real Cheese 
Our drivers carry less Our Superb Cheese Pizza 
than $20.00 12" cheese $4.99 16" cheese $7.19 
Limited Delivery Area 
® 
Pnces do not mclude applicable sales lax c 1984 Oom1no·~ P1zza Inc 
r----------------------,
Pay only $5.99 for a$5.99 12" one item pizza and 2 Cokes•
Special 
Good Fri., Sot., and Sun. Only 
i® 
L•••••••••~-:. ••••••••••••J 

DOMINO'S 
PIZZA 
DELIVERS™ FREE. 
what Atlanta's Superstation WTBS­lV's owner will discuss in his address at the diploma ceremony. Reilly said he invited Turner bdore Turner announced his plans to pur­chase the CBS network. 
The MBA diploma ceremony will begin at 10 a.m. at Stepan Center. Approximately 151 students will be awarded masters of business ad­ministration degrees. Most graduates have specialized in finance. 
An academic procession from the Law School to Sacred Heart Church will open the Law School ceremony. Formal ceremonies are scheduled to start at 4:30p.m. Approximately I 56 students will receive the degree of juris doctor from the Law-School. 
During his career, Andreotti held such ministerial posts as minister of the interior, minister of finanace, minister of the treasury, and mini­ster ofdefense. Andreotti has been a consistent supporter ofU. S. policies and of the North Atlantic Treaty Or­ganization. Currently he chairs the European Council of Ministers. 

Law School Dean David link said Andreotti was selected because he is eager to give an major address. link said that University President Father Theodore Hesburgh, who chose Andreotti, thought he was a fitting speaker for the University's Law School which offers a special focus on law in the international setting. 
Andreotti will deliver the actress in Italian and will be accompanied by a translator. Copies of the mini­ster's speech in English will be available to those attending. 
nt 

Best inAged Stea 
120 N. Main Street Downtown. Mishawaka 
255-7737 
for reservations Lunch ll:OOa.m. to 2:30p.m. Dinner 5:00 p.m. 
Closed 
1 

, 1 
1 
1 
,1 

1, 
1 1 

-Got 3 words for ya! 
, 

...the other's 1 
1 

Cqngratulatiqns! 1 ~ 
1 
1 
1 

I'll miss you Love, Your LiHie BuHercup 

,1 
, 
, ~ I 


r 
r 
r 
~ 
r 
r 
~ 
The Observer Friday, May 17, 1985-page 4 
Student raped Sunday on walk back to SMC NEW SCHEDULE 
By THERESA GUARINO 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor 
Notre Dame Security is investigat· ing the rape ofa Saint Mary's student that occurred Sunday night on the road between the two campuses. 
The assault happened ap­proximately II p.m., about 200 feet east ofU.S. Route 31-33. lbe student was returning to the Saint Mary's campus alone at tht: time. 
The suspect was described as a white male, approximately 6 feet tall, 190 lbs., and slightly over­weight. The victim, who was wearing earphones and listening to music, said she did not hear him ap­proach. 
According to the student, the suspect forced her into a field north of the road where he covered her head with a black t-shirt and told her he had a knife and would use it if she resisted. After the incident, the stu­dent was picked up by two other stu­dents returning to Saint Mary's in a car. She immediately was taken to 
SMC profs recognized with awards 
By ELLYN MASTAKO 
StaffReporter 
Anthony Black, associate profes­sor of history at Saint Mary's, received the Spes Unica Award at the College's annual Honors Con­vocation May 6. 
lbe Spes Unica Award honors ex­cellence in teaching and service to the College. 
"I've always concentrated on un­dergraduate teaching and found it very rewarding," said Black. "I'm honored to have received this pres­tigious award." 
Black joined the Saint Mary's faculty in 1955. Last fall, he was the first exchange professor between Saint Mary's and Saint Patrick's Col­lege in Maynooth, Ireland. He received his B.A. from Duquesne University, and his M.A. and Ph.D. from Notre Dame. Black founded the London Summer Program in I975 and has served as its director since that time. 
Mary Connolly, assistant profes­sor of mathematics, received the Maria Pieta Award in recognition of her skill, dedication and excellence in teaching lower division courses. 
Connolly, who joined the College in 1981, graduated as the valedic­torian of her class at Manhattan ville College. She earned her M.A. from Brown University. 
IAMERICAN 
WCANcER 
fSOCIETY~ 
512K! 
Macintosh Upgrade 
We offer a quality, affordable way to 
upgrade your 128K Macintosh to 5121<. 
The MacMemory Upgrades are the "Bectronlc Twin" of Apple's Fat Mac and are guaranteed to be 100~ compatible. 
The upgrade Is IIVIIllable In kit form or Installed on your motherboard wfth a 90-day wammty. 
$295 Installed $195 Kit 
I! 
MacMemory Electronics 
500 W. Middlefield Rd.. Suite 28 Mountain View. CA 94043 
(415) 964-4176 
security, and then to the Student 

EFFECTIVE APRIL 28, 198§
Health Center, before going to St. 

Travel United Limo to U from Chicago's O'Hare
Joseph's Medical Center. 
Because the incident occurred on the Notre Dame campus, Notre Dame Security is handling investiga­tion of the incident, according to Director of Security Glenn Terry. "We have some pieces of evidence, but no suspects at the present time," said Terry. "However any informa­tion anyone might have would of course be helpful." 
Terry said the victim believes her assailant may have been a student, All ARRIVALS AND DEPARTURES ON LOCAL TIME. CALL FOR COMPLETE LIST OF PICKUP POINTS & TIMES.
but he said, "there is no way to tell 
for sure." FOR RESERVATIONS (219) 674-6993 
"She's doing the best she can, but 
OR CALL YOUR TRAVEL AGENT
we don't know how good of a look 

LEAVE  LEAVE  ARRIVE  ARRIVE  
NOTI!f  MICHIANA  MICHIAU  NOTRf  
OAME  REGIONAL  REGIONAL  OAME  
BUS  AIRPORT  ARRIVE  LEAVE  AIRPORT  BUS  
SHELTER  SOUTH BEND  0 HARE  0 HARE  SOUTH BEND  SHELTER  
3 201m  J 40 t.m  6001 m  830 1m  10 50 1m  II 05 1m  
5 201m  S40 1m  8 00 I m  10 JQ I m.  12 50 pm  I OS pm  
7 201m  7 40 1m  10 00 1m  1130 pm  150 pm  J 05 p m  
9 201m  9 40 1m  12 00 pm  2 30 p m  4 50 pm  505 p m  
11 201m  II 40 1m  2 00 p m  4 30 pm  6 50 p m  105 pm  
110 pm  140 pm  4 00 pm  6 30 p m  B50 pm  9 05 pm  
320 p.m  3 40 p m  6 00 p11t  8 30 p m  10 50 p m  II 05 p m  
510 p m  540 pm  B00 p m  10 30 p m  12 50 1m  I 05 I m  
110 pm  7 40 pm  10 00 p"'  12 30 • m  250'"'  305 1m  

she got at him," he said. 
Sister Karol Jackowski, Saint Mary's dean ofstudent affairs, sent a letter Tuesqay to all students remaining on campus, informing them of the incident. In the letter she also asked students to be aware ofthe dangers ofwalking home from Notre Dame alone at night. 


'11Tho says you can't take it with you? 
¥YArter four years of college, you've got a lot of things. And one more could be the Amencan Express" Card. 
Because if you're a senior and you've accepted a $10,000 career-oriented job, you could get the American Express Card. 
That's It. No stnngs. No gimmicks. 
(And even If you don't have a JOb 

But this is a way that Amencan Express can show that we believe in your future. And asyougraduateandgo up the ladder, we'd like to come along 
The Card IS great for busmess. It can help you begm to establish your credit h1story. And, m a little less senous vein. the Card can be a lot of fun. Use It for vacations, for a mght on the town, or JUSt a little shoppmg. 
right now, don't worry. This 11.;.,;;,;_..,.=,._,...•,..-..a~o:; So calll-800-528-4800 and offer IS still good for 12 months ~ -''":.u"LJ"-'L'd;!"'''-*'>'' ~ ask to have a Special Student after you graduate) ~· -'"'\ ~ Application sent to you. Or look . Tf it sounds like the Card ·••· ~I~l!/"~; < -~ for one on campus.IS a little easier for: semors to i .. , ,, '{i~~~ ;,.., ~ The American Express Card. get nght now. you re nght. •--r-·.:. ,.;r~., "" -• Don't leave school without it~M 
The Observer Friday, May 17, 1985-page 5 
Mayor Henry Cisneros 
Alumni offer services to new grads 
elected to Board of Trustees 
Speclal to 'lbe Observer 
Henry Cisneros, mayor of San Antonio, Texas, has been elected to Notre Dame's Board of Trus­tees. 
Cisneros received his bachelor degree in 1968 from Texas A&M University and masters degrees in urban and regional planning and public administration from Texas A&M in 1970, and Harvard University in 1973. His doctor of public administration was awarded by George Washington University in 1975. He has taught since 1974 on the public ad­ministration facult)' at the Uni­versity ofTexas at San Antonio. 
A White House fellow in 
1970-71 as assistant to the Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare, Cisneros subse­quently was a Ford Foundation grant recipient at Harvar-d's John 
F. Kennedy School of Govern­ment, where he is now a member ofthe visiting committee. He also has taught urban studies and planning at the Massachusetts In­stitute ofTechnology. 
He received his first ex­perience in San Antonio city government as an administrative assistant to the city manager in 1968 and seven years later was elected to the city council. He was re-elected twice to the coun­cil before successfully running for mayor in 1981, a position to which he was re-elected in 1983 and 1985. 
By M. E. HARRINGTON 
StaffReporter 
The Notre Dame Alumni Associa­tion can be the graduating senior's best friend, said James Pollitica, director of Alumni Continuing Education for the association. 
Through the Notre Dame Alumni Association, graduates can kt:ep in touch, make new acquaintano~s and participate in a variety of social and educational programs, Pollitica said. 
But the bottom line is contact, he said. "People walk in the door ex­pecting to meet friends." 
The association began in 1868 as a way to support and perpetuat<: good feelings about the University. It ac­complishes this through its network of more than 175 regional clulbs and many campus-centered activities. 
According to Pollicita, Notre Dame's Alumni Association differs 
from most others because its main objective is not to raise money for the University. The association itself does not collect a membership fee, although individual regional clubs sometimes collect fees to finance their own mailings and functions. Pollicita encourages graduating seniors to join the clubs in their areas. This will enable them to bet­ter know their communities and provide input to older alumni about the state of the University, he said. Many clubs have activities designed to acquaint younger and older alumni, a move encouraged by the 19-member Alumni Board. The Alumni Board is an elected body representing 1 5 geographic areas concerned with association policy. Recently, clubs have focused on interaction between older and younger alumni and continuing education. These clubs view recent 

dent experience and are interested in their input, said Pollicita. 
Regional clubs have been con­centrating on younger concerns by running programs aimed toward new alumni and programs to in­troduce older and younger alumni. Some clubs are moving toward younger leadership, and there is a greater chance for recent graduates to become involved in these groups, said Pollicita. 
To be eligible to vote for the board, graduating seniors must be registered for the alumni football ticket lottery. 
The Alumni Association provides hospitality booths at both home and away football games. At home games, these booths are arranged by class year, enabling former clas­smates to renew old acquaintances and catch up on class news. 
Jordan Ford Has a special gift for upcoming graduates 
* 
Plus $400 purchase allowance** 
from Ford Motor Company. 
Vehicles Included • Your credit record, if in the Plan. you have one, must indi­You may choose a cate payment made as new 1985 Thunderbird, 
agreed. LTD, Tempo, Mustang, 
••$400 Purchase 
Escort, Bronco II or light 
Allowance.
trucks up to F-250. 
Make your best deal ... use the 
•Pre-Approved Credit. $400 as a down payment or receive a Just meet three simple 
$400 check directly from Ford after the sale. conditions: 
• 
You must have verifiable employ­ment that begins within 120 days of your vehicle purchase at a salary sufficient to cover ordinary living expenses and your vehicle payment. 

• 
You must have proof that you have graduated or will graduate and be awarded at least a bachelors degree within 120 days. 


609 East Jefferson Boulevard • Post Office Box 370 Mishawaka, Indiana 46544 U.S.A. • (219) 259-1981 


SMC 
continuedfrompage 1 
has worked for the Society of Cat­holic Medical Missionaries, and at the Vatican. Hellwig has taught in the U.S. since 1965. 
Kavanaugh, who also will celebrate the Baccalaureate Mass, will receive an honorary doctor of 
laws  degree  at  commencement.  
Kavanaugh  is  professor  of  
philosophy at  St.  Louis University  

and has lectured on faith and justice worldwide. 
ND 
continued from page 1 
professional career began on radio in 1941. She was a soloist with the New York Philaharmonic Orchestra. 
•
Bette Bao Lord, novelist, doctor of humanities. A native ofChina, Lord's second work, "Spring Moon: A Novel of China," was issued in 1982 and won an American Book Award nomination. 

•Sister 
Marie Augusta Neal, profes­sor of sociology at Emmanuel Col­lege, Boston, doctor of laws. 



-the ~t10W~ 170Me!' 
in a l7'cdor limiteJ editiort 1i-ttlajr~(?M '?'{.ft.OTf L.-. HeNVfZi~ eAition ~ .qqo .arti'tf' ptZ:l:# ~ 70 
~'l·~·P~fNV 
?f:ttt7 a-\fa'?"-tvi.O. 10 ~,. H!::Nffit::. ~14~ ~1Ut710 17tl4 MOr'iOii AV~HU~ t::~IH4W?~
IMP.~~ J.j_'wf~IP ~ W'"". 
r 
~ 
r 
r 
r r r 
~ 
--------~-­

~i~~~_<>__i_ll__t___________________Fr-ida-y,_Ma_y_17,_19-85__p_age_6 A troubled present and an uncertain future 
Notre Dame stands mired in a period of transition -stru~ing with its Catholic charac­ter, searching for an academic identity and trying to rework a student social life without alcohol. The atmosphere is sluggish because the direction and leadership the University needs to get moving again have not been 
David G. Grote speaking out of turn 
found. Itseems no one has the power to define Notre Dame's future except Father Hesburgh, and Hesburgh seems all too content to let things ride as he finishes out his term as presi­dent. 
Notre Dame is a bomb waiting to explode into an excellent academic institution. The faculty at Notre Dame is one of abundant ability, one that takes pride in its work and one that wants a part in building a tradition of academic excellence. The students at Notre Dame are people of tremendous talent who 
want to be respected as intelligent; concerned people. The problem is that no one will light the fuse. 
At Notre Dame it is tht' administration alone which paints the face the University wears. It determines acceptable srudent and faculty be­havior, and uses the threats of expulsion and not granting tenure, respectively to get it. The administration determines academic stan­dards with little input from the faculty. As an employer the Notre Dame administration shows little respect for workers rights, stifling efforts by its employees to unionize. 
This is the administration students and faculty perceive · an administration that will not listen, that thinks it is always right, that does not need them, only tolerates them. 
This perception stagnates growth, stagnates creativity and destroys any sense of com­munity on campus. It robs Notre Dame of realizing the tremendous potential in its stu­dents and faculty who desperately want a stake in making Notre Dame an excellent educational institution. 
If students and faculty arc respected for 
their talents, ifthey are told to be creative, and 
The challenge of love also extends to parents 
In January, I983, our daughters, Michelle and Rita Murphy, died in an automobile acci­dent. Having spent Christmas at home in Wyoming, they were returning to the campus. 
Ten days later, we wrote a letter to "Our Beloved Notre Dame Family." It was printed in The Observer and distributed by Campus Ministry. Alongs~ Michelle's picture, it is 
Dr. Joseph Murphy guest column 
reproduced on a plaque hanging in Farley Hall. 
The letter was born oflove and gratitude. 
Our grief, so great at that moment, has been 
lessened by the gift of Notre Dame's presence 
in the life of our family. We arc deeply ap· 
preciative for so much given us by so many 
from the school of Our Lady. 
A father and three sons, Patrick, Donald and 
Kevin, have graduated from Notre Dame. Rita 
and I came again, on April 26, 1985, to receive 
Michelle's and Rita's diplomas from Father 
Ted. 
In our first letter, we issued a "Challenge to 
the Men and Women of Notre Dame." 
We now specifically extend that challenge to include the parents ofthese same "Men and Women of Notre Dame." As we have been, so are you singularly blest. Our children have rewarded us by sharing the Notre Dame ex· perience. 
We challenge you· as we continue to chal· 
Ienge ourselves · to take unabashed pride in 
what it is these young adults have ac· 
complished. Even for those most gifted, ac· 
hieving a Notre Dame degree is no small 
matter. 
In earlier moments of grief, we urged all 
Doonesbury 

Notre Dame students to tell their famillies of their love. We heard such words from Mic­helle and Rita. They too, we pray, heard them from us. The memory ofthese words continue to sustain us. 
As parents, we too must speak often of our love for each other and for our children. 
Love crosses the "generation gap." So also it crosses that thin and temporal line that seperates life from death. 
In this, a brighter day, our earlier challenge continues every bit as valid. 
During Freshman Orientation Weekend, Father Ted told us how our youngsters would mature under the mantle ofOur Lady, beneath the Golden Dome. As ifby alchemy, it has hap­pened! 
If you do not already know, you will soon learn that having a Notre Dame graduate or graduates in the family is great fun! 
Rejoice and be glad! Though not on campus with you at this joyous time, we are with you in Spirit. And Spirit is what Notre Dame is all about! 
Michelle and Rita knew this. Each of you know this. As do all within the embrace of the Notre Dame Family. 
May you have a marvelous graduation weekend. Just as God is present, now and forever, to all of us, may we always remain present to each other. 
As in the priestly exhortation of peace, go forth to love and serve the Lord. It is by so doing that we serve each other. 
It is only then that we can return the favor that is Notre Dame. 
Dr. Murphy '45 is the father of Michelle and Rita Murphy, Notr1? Dame students ki/lea in an automobile acciaent while returning to school in early january 1983. Three sons, Pat, Don ana Kevin, are Notre Dame graauates, as is Don's wife, Susan. 


given the opportunity to help shape both the social and academic atmosphere, Notre Dame will explode. It will explode socially and academically into one of the leading univer­sities in the nation. 
To realize this excellence demands strong, progressive leadership and a clear sense of direction. It also demands the courage to chal­lenge prevailing attitudes and grant both stu­dents and faculty a stake in the University's future. Unfortunately, the leadership and progressiveness that are needed are not at work on the Notre Dame campus. 
Hesburgh deserves credit for almost singlehandedly building the Notre Dame of today · perhaps two-thirds of the campus was built during the Hesburgh era · but the days are soon coming when Notre Dame will no longer be able to depend on Hcsburgh for its identity. 
Hesburgh's visible leadership has waned as his extended term as president has dragged on. He has accomplished much of his dream · building Notre Dame's credibility according to his own blueprint· and seems content with his product. Yet since Hcsburgh still holds all the marbles and since he has shown little wil­
lingness to alter his creation, it is unlikely that 
any further progress can be made in his term 
as president. 
But nothing has been prepared for Notre 

Dame's life after Hcsburgh. In fact the Univer­
sity seems crippled by the thought of his 
leaving, not knowing what will fill the void 
created by his leaving. Four years ago in their 
search for a new University president the 
Board of Trustees seemed unprepared for a 
future without Hesburgh, proposing to create 
the position of Chancellor to keep Hesburgh 
in the game before finally deciding to have 
him stay as president. 
It is highly unlikely that the next president will come close to matching Hcsburgh's presence and authority. In the future the uni­versity president will have to work together with all the different factions. If Notre Dame is to progress academically, physically and so­cially in the future, all the University's resources must be used, including its students and faculty. There is not another Hesburgh. 
Davia G. Grote is a graauating electrical engineering major at Notre Dame ana is the fonner Viewpoint Eattor at The Obsen•er. 
Finding the virtue in enjoying one's work 
Graduation has arrived and for the class of 1985 the future is rapidly becoming the present. This year, seniors have grappled with the often difficult task oftrying to decide what they want to do with their lives. 
For some the task has been fairly simple. After having studied accounting for three years, getting a job with one of the Big Eight 
John Neblo outside, looking in 
firms seemed like the logical next step. Some have known since their first day freshman year that law school or medical school was their ultimate destination. Still others owe their next four years to Uncle Sam. For many people, however, the prospect of selecting a career seems a monumental decision. 
Law school looks interesting, .but do they really want to be a lawyer? How about busi­ness school? The opportunity to help manage a Fortune 500 corporation holds incredible allure. But wait, there are mega-dollars to be made in investment banking? Maybe working for the government would be interesting? Add to this confusion the desire to make a million dollars before the age of40 and you have a real mess. 
It becomes very easy to feel jealous of the friend who will be working on mergers and aquisitions for Merrill Lynch or the guy who has been accepted to Harvard Law School, but should we be? Do you really want to spend 70 hours per week pouring over corporate income statements or spend day after day studying Torts and Civil Procedure? What good is the prestige if you hate waking up on Monday mornings? 
Without a doubt, the most important lesson I have learned in f}Ie last four years is the im­portance of liking one's work. The lesson 
Garry Trudeau 

seems so obvious when one considers that 
eight to· 12 hours a day, five days a week, for 
the next 45 years will be spent at work, yet I 
am forever amazed by the number ofpeople I 
meet who knowingly take jobs they do not 
like for the money, or t11e prestige, or both. 
With a host of knotty problems out there just waiting for a champion, it is too bad more talented young graduates do not examine al­ternative career paths. In the field of public policy, for example, there are trade deficits and budget deficits to reduce, racism and sexism to eliminate, poverty and unemploy­ment to combat and an environment that needs protection. For scientists, there are countless diseases to be cured, energy sources to be discovered and hungry popula­tions to feed. In international relations there will forever be problems as complex as those in Lebanon and El Salvador, and as paramount as nuclear disarmament. 
Problems like these have always com­manded attention by virtue of their urgency, but they also deserve our attention by virtue of their complexity. What problems in the business world could be half as interesting and challenging as those found in public policy? Imagine the challenge of upgrading public education in the country's inner-cities. Consider all the related socio-economic problems that lie in the way of truly effective public education: drug abuse, street gangs, child neglect/abuse, lack of funds, and the shortage of competent teachers. Like the proverbial mountain, these problems and many others are there, waiting to be climbed. 
Perhaps I am being naive, but with problems this complex and fascinating screaming for our attention, investing union pension funds for E.F. Hutton does not seem quite as interesting anymore. 
john Neblo is a graduating economics major at Notre Dame ana has been a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Quote of the day 
"The only way not to have protestors is to invite a nobody. H we invited the good Lord, we'd have somebody protesting." 
-Father Hesburgh 


r 
"ieVVP-~O~i~n~t~---------------------------------------------F_n_·ct_ay_._M_a_y_I_7._1_9_8S___P_a_g__e7 

As a senior about to enter the "real world," I have been extended numerous offers to get this or that credit card. It is symbolic, I think, of the affluence in this country. Where else can 21-year-old men and women obtain such buying power? 
While studying overseas three semesters ago, it became apparent to me how well-off 
Brian McKeon 
reflecting 

Americans are. In Ireland, the natives assume that all Americans are rich. Once while hitchhiking there, a man with two young children picked me up. The children asked me what my father did for a living. When I told them he was a lawyer, they said. "Oh, very rich. Do you have a Rolls Royce?" Even in Britain, once the most powerful nation in the world, the level of wealth is markedly lower than our own. British people would be shocked at the vast selection available at low prices in stores in the United States. And you will not find too many British students cruis­ing around in sleek sportscars. 
lbc advertising industry in America is a good indicator of this country's wealth, ofthe American trait of acquisitiveness. One com-· pany's beer commercials tell us that "you can have it all." I often wonder, if that is the case, what is left for everybody else? Certainly not everyone can have it all. And yet Madison Avenue tells us we can, and implores us to "go for it." 
Meanwhile, as the yuppies in America are busy going for it, millions in the world go hungry. Cynics may reply, "It is not my problem, right? Let those countries take care of their own people." Unfortunately, it is our problem, or at least it soon will be. While it may be possible now to ignore current in­equities in the world, it will be impossible to do so in the not so distant future. The com­bination of a rapidly growing population and an ever-shrinking supply of resources will preclude that. 
Consider these facts: if current population trends continue, by the year 2050 Nigeria, with a current population of 19 million, will have approximately 500 million people. Of the ten most populous countries, seven will be in the Third World. The world's population will have c!oubled. Increased population ob­viously means that more and more people will compete for fewer resources. Will Americans be able to maintain the same standard of living? Probably not. 
The United States at present consumes an enormous percentage of the world's resources, perhaps as much as 70 percent. America spends more money on pet food that we do on foreign aid. While much ofthe world starves, some Americans worry about getting a third car. How can we as Christians justify such extravagence? 
A question on a senior survey about moral values asked, "Should there be a redistribu­tion of wealth from the United States to the nations of the Third World?" No doubt many seniors laughed at such an idea, an attitude most likely prevalent throughout much ofthe country. Such an attitude cannot persist forever, and someday we will be forced to change our way of living. The sooner Americans come to accept this fact the better. 
Brian McKeon is a graduating government major at Notre Dame and bas been a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
The Skeptic 
Don't look;  Don't run;  
You might see.  You might fall.  
Don't think;  Don't try;  
You might learn.  You might fail.  
Don't walk;  Don't live;  
You might stumble.  You might die.  
-anonymous  


~-·~The ObserYer--­
c 

P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the mdependent newpaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary"s College. It does not necessarily ref!ect the policies of the administration of e1ther Institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majonty of the Editonal Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the v1ews of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the commun1ty. and the free expressiOn of varying opin1ons on campus, through letters, IS t;,couraged 
Grrandfather represents a different success 
My grandfather turns 72 today 
He is a tall man with a deeply tanned face. Looking at his hands it is easy to tell that he has not worked behind a desk for a living. His hands are massive. They are so huge that one finger will almost cover two piano keys. These 
Mark Boennighausen gravity is a myth 
hands have often crushed my fingers during many overzealous handshakes. 
First as a fisherman and then as a longshoreman, my grandfather worked long hours to support his family. He worked with a dignity and a cheerfulness that has always amazed me. When I was small, I remember going over to his house for visits and waiting for him to come home. When he entered the house he would spy me waiting for him and he would quickly smile and lift me up into the air. Ifhe was tired he never showed it. He always had time to spend with me. When I broke something, whether it was a toy or a bicycle, he would fix it. Often he would pay me for giving him the privilege of working on my stuff. 
Although he never went to college, my grandfather has always been enthusiastic con­cerning his children's and now grandchildren's education. "How is your schoolwork going?" is a common question during phone conversations. And when finan­cial crises arise, as they often have in these times of spiraling costs for a college educa­tion, he has been more than generous. 

Two years ago he saw my brother graduate from Stanford University and this weekend he is confronting an airline strike and traveling over 2000 miles to attend my graduation. He will endure a stream of barely distinguishable speakers and suffer through endless lines to catch a glimpse ofme among the multitudes of my classmates. 
During the commencement ceremony, he will be able to see many of the top academics in the country. Additionally, up on center stage there will be a large group of important people, including a head of state, a governor and the president of a multi-billion dollar cor­poration. Many of my classmates will un­doubtedly be dreaming of the day when they will also be recognized in this manner. Notre Dame helps build these type ofdreams. 
Notre Dame, however, has helped me see a different type of dream. When I look at my grandfather and see what he has ac­complished, I know he is at least as successful as any of the people Notre Dame is honoring. When the moment comes for me move my tassle over to the graduate side, I will not be thinking offame and riches. 
Instead, I will be hoping that I will be half as successful as my grandfather. 
Mark Boennighausen is a graduating government major at Notre Dame and bas been a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Keeping the optimism 
You remember :your first date, your first drive and your first job. But a journalist adds a few more items to the mental scrapbook: the first story and the first column-especially that first column, a mystical chance to express an opinion, to let 'em have it, to effect change. 
In a typical shroud ofbubbly optimism, this freshman reporter took on goliath Indiana Bell, lambasting the insensitive corporation for ktting students wait up to half an hour to 
Mark Worscheh supply and demand 
get an outside line after 11 p.m. Filled with seering prose and a call to action, the column was sure to draw a letter from the company, as well as letters ofsupport from other disgusted students. Then again, maybe it would not. 
It did not. 
It was a fitting welcome to the world ofcol­legiate journalism, where verbose criticism of evt:rything from A to Z·is so standard a bill of fare that it all tends to be deafening. In a word, college papers have a natural tendency to 
complain -and complain often. 
Since the first batch ofwide-eyed freshmen arrived on campus four years ago, 566 dif­ferent stacks of The Observer have appeared in the dining halls. In these pages have ap­peared hundreds of gripes about coaches, thousands of criticisms of the "social life," in­numerable swipes at South Bend and an in­finite number of jabs, slaps and blasts at the administration and Father Theodore Hes­burgh. 
And what has been the result of all this ver­biage? Gerry Faust is still here, and at last report, Hesburgh still works until the early hours under the Dome. South Bend, though 
Editorial Board 
Ed1tor·m·Ch1ef Managmg Ed1tor. News Editor. News Ed1tor. Samt Mary's Executive Editor Sports Editor. Acc.~nt Editor V1ewpo1nt Editor . Photography Editor Copy Ch1ef. 
Sarah E. Hamilton Amy Stephan Keith Harrison Jr. . Dan McCullough Theresa Guanno Jeff Blumb Mary Healy Joe Murphy Peter C Laches Frank L1po 

recovering economically, has not changed much, except perhaps in terms of aroma. The service problems of Indiana Bell disappeared two years ago, only to be replaced by Campus­net's billing fiascos. 
In any other situation, it would be easy to get disheartened. But burnout occurs rarely in college journalism. The collegiate experience itself encourages free expression, be it ~<ub­stantiated or not. And the college newspaper presents the unique opportunity to come in, comment for four years, and get out. 
That administrators become hardened to criticism is not surprising. Indeed, one could expect it. But fortunately, either through ad­ministrative initiative or journalistic fortitude, changes can occur. It is to such unique events that anyone associated with a newspaper can look with a great deal ofpride. 
They arc the small victories, and they must be treasured, for the big ones come only rarely if at all. At Notre Dame, despite a series of losses, for example, the alcohol policy, Mardi Gras and the final exam policy; ex­amples of successful change may be found. The addition to LaFortune will begin thili sum­mer, and the Student Saver store opened this spring. 
Effecting change certainly will not be any easier once the diploma is in hand, for other institutions-be they governments or corpora­tions-will prove to be just as stodgy. The chal­lenge comes in retaining the optimism of freshman year and cherishing the victories that do come. 
Institutions, it must be remembered, do not wither. College graduates replace those who leave. And it is their attitude toward younger optimists which will determine if progress and change will proceed or stall. 
Mark Worscheb is a graduating economics/1-f.PA majoratNotre Dameand is thefonner Managing Editor at The Observer. 
Department Managers 
Busmess Manager Dav1d Stephen1tch Advert1s1ng Manager Anne Culligan Controller. Bill H1ghducheck Systems Manager. Mark B. Johnson Product1on Manager John A. Mennell 
Founded November 3, 1966 


·Accent Duarte assaults a tradition of violence 
Mary Healy 

features editor 
F
or some, he is the embodimem appropriately enough, on the slopes of the Christian social ideals ofa volcano). In 1972, he was espoused by the Church and Notre robbed ofcertain victory in the Dame. For others, he is an il­presidential elections by the army's legilimate head ofstate and a fraudulent vote counting. prisoner of his own amoral army. Immediately afterward, some Either way, it is almost impossible officers staged a counter-coup and w have an indifferent opinion of the asked Duarte to become presidenc. man Notre Dame has chosen as its But the coup tailed, and Duarte was I<JHS commencement speaker: jose arrested, blindfolded and beaten Napoleon Duarte. unconscious by soldiers. His 
Last june, Duarte became the slightly sunken cheeks auest to the second democratically chost·n blows that crushed the bones under civilian ever lO take office in El his eyes. Salvador (and the first Notre Dame After seven years ofexile in graduate to become a head of Venezuela, Duarte, undaunted, state). He stepped into a country returned to join a reform-minded deeply scarred by five years ofcivil junta that had seized control. Ap­war, with an exhausted economy, poinced president, he immediately an unemploymem rate approaching began a series ofland redistribution 40 percent, and a climate ofvicious and other programs to try to al­antipathy between forces of the leviate some of the coumry's severe extreme right and left (see article social inequalities. But the elections

r 
below). But he came in with a mis­of 1982 saw a right-wing coalition,

r 
sion to give his country something led by Roberto d'Aubuisson, gain 

r 
it had never had -both the percep­the provisional presidency.

r 
tion and the reality ofdemocracy. Duarte's dream at last became a

I 
According to his nephewJose reality in last May's runoff elections,

r 
Duarte, who will receive an MBA when he swept into office with 56

r 
degree in Sunday's ceremonies, percent of the vote. But the task of 

I "giving the sense that we are a the new president has been a nearly with little success. In a second America, is critical of the choice of National Assembly elections this democracy is the most radical impossible one. Besides attempting round the guerrillas demanded Duarte as commencement speaker. March, Duarte received a major change he can make." to halt the civil war and the death ·'power sharing" and a provisional He believes Duarte is not the boost to his fortunes when his party 
When the elder Duarte first squad murders, Duarte must del­government of"national con­answer to El Salvador's problems. won a majority ofseats for the first arrived at Notre Dame, using icately juggle the conflicting aims of sensus," concessions Duarte could "On paper his policies are very time. "Before, my uncle had his 116,000 his father had won in a embittered guerrillas on the left, not accept. A proposal for a third laudable, and I'm aure he believes hands tied trying to do reforms. louery, he already had strong politi­and a willful army and hostile busi­round has not yet been answered in them," he comments. "But so far Now that he has a legislative cal ideas. But his philosophy began ness community on the right. He by the Christian Democrat. he ha'in't been able to implement majority, he can do things," to take shape when he took a clao;s must continue to lobby a reluctant On the right, Duarte has shuffled any policies in practice." declaredJose. on social justice taught by Father U.S. Congress to approve U.S. the command of the security forces, Dunkerely takes issue with many Indeed, things seem to be Theodore Hesburgh (now presi­military and economic aid to the believed to be the breeding ground of the claims of Duarte's supporters. working in many ways. The killings dent of the University). "Maybe country. He must maintain the for the death squads. He has fired He believes Duarte's election "was have decreased from 40 to roughly what Father Hesburgh did was push impression that he is in control and corrupt officers and replaced them between the right and the extreme 12 a month. The guerrilla'> are him into politics," says Jose. "He that democracy is really working. with younger men trained in the right -it is impossible to judge how losing their clout, according toJose. didn't know what doctrine he had. And he must cominue his drive for United States. He has tried to assert he would have fared ifthey were "They don't have enough power to Father Hesburgh told him he was a social and economic reform. Said control over the still untamed fair elections." He said there is "not hold a city or small town for more Christian Democrat, so he started nephewJose, "He is trying to save military, appearing at its a shred ofevidence" to support the than one week," he said. Most im­
n:ading more about it." Christian the coumry-to change the whole headquarters last summer and allegation that Moscow supplies portantly, the democratic position Democracy is a cencrist position system of the country. successfully ordering it to military aid to the guerrillas. And no is gaining legitimacy in the eyes of that combines popular governmem Last October, Duarte took the recapture a dam taken by guerrillas. matter what the setbacks, he many Salvadorans. 
with the social doctrines ofthe first step toward defusing some of But some Salvadorans still are believes, the guerrillas will con­
Church. the revolutionary furor of the guer­obviously unsatisfied with the tinue to fight. In Jose's words, "When the San­
Notre Dame influenced the rillas. He announced that he would status quo. And Duarte's regime According to Dunkerely, "There dinistas took power (in Nicaragua). future president in other ways. ''I'll meet with their leaders to negotiate does not receive unqualified ap­is no solution possible without the they set an example for the rest of say this for Notre Dame -it taught a peace settlement. In an astound­plause onlookers in the United United States changing its policy." the Central American nations. Now you to have guts. I worked in the ing display ofcourage, he refused a States. James Dunkerely, a visiting In any case, he flatly predicts, what El Salvador does also will set 
laundry. I served in the cafeteria bulletproofvest and any guard member of Notre Dame's Helen "Duarte can't deliver." an example for them. The impor­and then I washed dishes. I got up at other than Boy Scouts, meeting in a Kellogg Institute for International But many Salvadorans apparently tant thing in El Salvador is the ; a.m. and went to bed at mid­church to offer the guerrillas a Studies and an expert on Central have faith that he can deliver. In the process ofchange." 
~ 
night," Duarte once said. When he political voice ifthey would lay graduated in 1948 with a degree in down their arms. 
r 
r 
civil engineering, Duarte went back Said jose ofhis uncle's well­



r The turbulent history of a small country 
to his coumry with a dream and a known bravery, "His mission is 

r-
determination that would have stronger than his feelings. He destroy crops. Extremists of the
amazed joan ofArc. realizes he is always in the aim of


r Mary Healy 
right resist all reform, and countHis resolve wa-; lObe sorely somebody's rifle -since 20 years

r among their ranks the infamous
tested in the following years. Begin­ago he has been receiving death features editor 

r death squads, which have tortured
ning in 1962, he served as the threats. He takes the risk when he

r and assassinated thousands under 
highly popular mayor ofSan Sal­feels it is worth it." 

I.., 
I Salvador means "The Savior" -a (later joined ilnd headed by Duarte) the guidance ofhigh-rankingvador, the capital city (situated, The negotiations, however, met 
~pious name that belies the chaos that promised a return to .military officers. '!be situation first and violence that has racked democracy. In 1982 the junta set up ·drew widespread U.S. attention Central America's tiniest country elections for a constituent as­with the 1980 murders ofArchbis­ever since it gained independence sembly, in which a coalition of two hop Oscar Arnulfo Romero and four from Spain in 1821. rightist parties, one led by Roberto American churchwomen. 
Dominated by an out-of-control d'Aubuisson, captured the victory The conflict has become an East­
military, swayed by the conflicting although Duarte's Christian West one, as the United States interests ofa variety offoreign Democrats had a plurality of the claims the guerrillas are supplied 
countries, and deeply polarized into vote. The assembly named a with arms and assistance by Mos­
two hostile political extremes, El physician, Alvaro Magana, as cow, through Cuba and Nicaragua. Salvador is a nation that has known provisional president. The Carter and Reagan administra­
r 
little ofdemocracy. Last May, Duarte was elected tions, for their part, have supplied
r 
In the' early 1800s, El Salvador president for a five-year term, and Duarte's government with 
r r became embroiled in numerous this March his party won a majority economic and military aid, sending revolutions and wars against other in the legislature, the National down scores of military advisors Latin American countries. Subse­Assembly. During his term he has and training troops in the United 
r 
quently, a long succession ofcoups, attempted to redistribut<· wealth States. revolutions, new constitutions, and through measures such as land The centrist Christian Democrats
r 
military dictatorships followed one reform and government control of are in a fragile position, attacked a-; another almost without pause, banks. Communists by the Right and asf rarely punctuated by free elections But progress has been hindered capitalists fanatics by the Left. Each and relatively fair government. A by the civil war that has ravaged the side claims ma-;sive human rights class ofwealthy, conservative lan­country for the past five years, violations by the other. Whether downers grew in power while the killing one out ofevery 100 Sal­the Christian Democrats can come peasant majority lived in poverty. vadorans, and driving one in I 0 out through on their promises ofrecon­A 50-year stint of military rule oftheir homes. Guerrillas of the ciling the two, and spurring an was finally broken in 1979, in a radical left carry out bombings and eventual return to peace, remains coup by a military-civilian junta assassinations, terrorize voters, and to be seen. 
-



----------------..] 
Friday, May 17, 1985-page 8-9 

Now, nine months later, Dean whose desire to win and whose says his dad is "loving life." On june love of Notre Dame transcended lbeodore Hesburgh, gave him last 6, 1984, Christy's decrepit heart the odds. And on Sunday, Christy May. He had worn a similar medal 
was cut loose and replaced with a and his wife, Georgia, will sit in during his three years in World War pink, healthy natural transplant. Section 11 of the ACC and cheer II before handing it to a friend who Less than 24 hours later, Christy Dean on when he receives a bac­was just beginning his overseas duty. was out ofintensive care and in helor's degree from the College of "I can't get over the prayers three weeks, he was out of the Business. people rendered," Christy s:aid hospital-making him, at age 59, the But much ofthe cheering will before he left the hospital. "I've got oldest person in the world to com­probably be for Notre Dame itself. a date with Father Mario Pedi plete heart-transplant surgery It was the Notre Dame fight song (rector ofSt. Ed's Hall), and we're successfully. Christy remembers singing as a kid, going to go out and pray together." 
"I was in the throes ofdeath. and it was Notre Dame that Christy The "date," which evenn1ally 
How's that sound?" Christy joked says pulled him through many of took place last August, was :at the last month when he came to the tough times in the past 10 years. Grotto -Christy's inspiration before campus to watch Dean's perfor­"I felt like I had a whole team on the surgery. "Whatever was hap­
mance in the St. Ed's play. "I just my side," he says. pening to me (before the had the idea that there was going to Once, before a biopsy, Christy transplant), I just disregarded," be some sort of miracle. There were says he had completely transposed Christy says. "In my mind, I was 
too many things to do before I himselfback to Notre Dame where back in that grotto," a spot he says wrapped it up." 
he swears he could hear the band has the "most beautiful tret:s in the 

That the surgery ever happened playing. "The doctors said, 'hey, are world." was a miracle in itself. Other than you all right?' " Christy relates. "I "Itell you," Christy adds. "I'm so his heart, Christy's vital organs were said, 'yeah I'm all right. You just do dedicated to this place. We'll be 
in excellent condition. But because the job.' And here I was 1,000 miles back for sure, we'll always be here." 
ofhis age-55 is usually the cutoff away in South Bend." And as he puts his arm around his for transplants -no surgeon would Around his neck, Christy wears a wife and casts a wink to his sons, touch the case. medal ofSt. Bernadette which you just know you're looking at a 
Enter oldest son George, a medi-Notre Dame's president, Father winner. 

To seven brothers: a report on your sister 
Rev. Robert 
Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
I 
would like to make a report to the seven brothers ofAnn Marie Griffin, a member ofthe '85 graduating class at Notre Dame. 
My dear nephews: four years ago, you laid on me the responsibility of keeping an eye on your sister. You never described my duties as Ann Marie's guardian. Perhaps you were worried that at Catholic Notre Dame, she would decide to become a nun. Perhaps you were afraid she would start dating a preppie from one of the private academies near Boston. Perhaps you figured she would be tempted to become a punk rocker pairing up with one of Hell's Angels on a motorcycle. 
Well, nephews, relax. Ann Marie 
has more class than the rest of the 
family put together, with the excep­
tion of your mother. She is a lovely, 
radiant young woman. Gentlemen, I 
tell you in all humility, she did it her 
way. I had nothing to say that she 
wanted to hear, because she has all 
the wisdom she needs in her pretty 
head. 
I remember how you warned me 
about the ways Darby O'Gill II 
could be turned into a rug, ifAnn 
Marie came home acting like a stuckup snob who thought she was too good to help with the supper dishes. "It would be easy to color that cocker spaniel purple," you joked light-heartedly, causing me to worry about the summer months when Darby freeloads at your house. You had me running scared. I used to pray every night that she wouldn't fall in love with a Republican. 
My dear nephews, all of you are members of the Yuppie generation. You're better informed and more liberal than I am. As brothers, however, you act like male chauvinists. To tell the truth, I used to worry about Ann Marie too. I · wondered if a jersey girl could be happy in Indiana. 
Sometimes when I've stayed overnight at your house, I've been given Ann Marie's room as a guest room where I sleep. I'm in a bed surrounded by wall posters, stuffed animals, prom favors, and other souvenirs. I get the feeling ofbeing a thorn among the roses, out of place in a boudoir that could belong to Alice in Wonderland. 
The feeling only lasts until I fall asleep. In the morning, I get up quickly, skipping the waking-up time I usually allow myself, afraid to light a cigarette among tho~ treasures. I'm in awe ofa mystique I don't understand, a stranger to the tenderness that cherishes knick­knacks because they are pretty, and have a sentimental value. Are girls and women a mysterious gender? 
Do they have some secret: that they don't tell boys and men? 
At the family feasts, I have watched Snow White and the Seven Giants. Ann Marie was grown up when her oldest brother, ten years ahead ofher, was still a kid. A long time ago, she dropped out of the games of sibling rivalry that the rest ofyou are good at. I've b<:en able to tell that for years from the wise look in her eyes, and from the fact that she stays quiet while the rest ofyou are shouting. 
Did you look down on her as a member of the weaker sex because she went to ballet classes when you were playing baseball, and was a cheerleader while you were making touchdowns for the team? Remem­ber how Bobby. the Engl.ish major, tried to talk his sister into becoming an English major? He couldn't see that Madame Vice President of Chase Manhattan doesn't need a silver tongue with poetry dripping offit to keep the conversation going in the pub at three in tht: morning. 
Brian, the psychologist, who keeps striking out the women he could love forever, is probably amazed at Ann Marie, just as he is in awe when his mother out-thinks him. Michael, the Ivy Leaguer, will always be watching to see if Ann Marie is upstaged by her competent competitors with degrees from Smith. Kevin, who sees the formula for success as a package deal featur­ing equal parts ofbrains, hard work, and charm, will check Ann Marie out to make sure she smiles enough. I respect Kevin so much that I'm positive the package deal works for him. 
Chris, the worrier, has a heart that catches you offguard with its show oflove. Having his sister back home will be good for his peace of mind. Peter, the professional per­cussionist trying to become Gene Krupa, watches everyone with doubting eyes, probably because he's marching to the beat ofa dif­ferent drummer. Gerald, the youngest, next to Ann Marie in age, is her best friend with whom she shares her secrets. He loves a girl that looks like Ann Marie's twin. He should have come to Notre Dame with Ann Marie. They could have been a brother and sister act to make Our Lady sorry she was an only child. 
My dear nephews, I hope you know I am crazy about the eight of you. "Star differs from star in glory," the Bible says, giving us the flicker­ing fires of the firmament. You are stars -AsJuliet said of Romeo, as Bobby Kennedy said ofjohn­making the face ofheaven so fine that all the world will be in love with night. Ann is the princess, according to the title your father gives her. 

For the sake of the record, I've never needed to fire a gun in Ann Marie's defense. She only wept on my shoulder once, when your fat­her had his heart attack. Once she asked me for my help with a paper in theology. She got an "A" on the paper, but she never brought my book back. She arrived at Notre Dame in the fall of the year that Gerry Faust began to coach. Gerry had it made, I figured, but Ann Marie might need a semester to adjust. Then I moved to Pasquerilla West, and she helped me adjust to a women's dorm. Do you realize that all the PW women have stuffed animals and keepsakes ofsenti­ment? 
My chiefregret about Ann Marie's graduation is that you have no more siblings to send. Three of you came, out of the eight who could have come. Next year, I will be alone, waiting for the next generation when your children will start arriving. By then, I may be too old to eat a cookie. I may be too feeble to raise my arms to give a hug. But I'll always be stirred, even when I'm pushing up daisies, by the nearness ofa campus sweetheart, who comes with brightness, and leaves brightness behind. 
Why did we ever worry about Ann Marie Griffin? For women like her, they are rewriting the Notre Dame myth. 
-----~---------­
The Observer Friday, May 17, 1985 page 10 

The Top Ten News Stories of 1984-85 
Frahnu~n guklr . page 13 
Corby's owner murdered 
Harold Rowley, owner of Corby Tavern, was shot to death in his home la~t August. Soon afterward, the Inter­nal Revenue Service shut down the popular student hang-out for "collection enforcement procedure." Rowley's former wife and his father disputed about the settlement of his estate, including the tavern. The tavern reopened briefly during the school year, but once again was dosed by the IRS. The tavern remains dosed. 


Rockne bust found 
The much-traveled bust of Knute Rockne, stolen a year ago from the Rockne Memorial, made a reap­pearance last fall during a pep rally when it was handed from the crowd to Coach Gerry Faust. The Observer learned the identity of a 1984 graduate and two sop­homores who allegedly swiped the bust. The newspaper also anonymously received several photographs of the bust sunning on a beach and in front of a West Lafayette, Ind., road sign. Soon after the big Rockne bust reappeared, a smaller scale version of the bust was stolen. 
lrlsb Extn --9 
The Observer ~ 
Cuomo speaks on abortion 
New York Governor Mario Cuomo came to Notre Dame in September to defend his stance on abortion and to explain his views on the relationship between religion and politics. Cuomo said although he per­sonally opposes abortion, Catholic public officials must preserve the Constitution because "in guaranteeing freedom for all, they guarantee our right to be Cat­holics." Cuomo and University President Father 'lbeodore Hesburgh appeared on the television program "Nightline" after the speech. 


I 
i 
Aloluo-popJ 

Student-run store to bqln operations
·a.t · 
at •tart of semester
\';p ~.-­
' .. 
." ­

Election scandal 
Ombudsman voided the campaign of Pat Browne, 
'roe..~.­
-~-lhocb4.
candidate for student body president, and his running 
-lctan'tlhlnllltleNan 
mate, joanie Cahill, because ofseven violations ofelec­
""""-~--, 
tion rules, including a failure to report expenditures properly. The next day, however, the Student Senate reinstated their ticket by a vote of8 to 7. Bill Healy and Duane Lawrence later defeated Browne and Cahill in an 
election with the lowest voter turnout in five years. 



ii~-.f!il
:::::.=-::-==.: , lib.ftoll.lk_dled ............caw~ 
G•Eli~~ 
Student Saver opens its doors 
A student-run general store at Notre Dame, the Stu­dent Saver, opened during second semester after months ofbargaining between student government and the administration. The Campus Life Council passed the resolution for the store and Father David Tyson, vice president for student affairs, gave the plan his okay. The store ran into some problems, however, including the inability to stock certain items, r<:stricted hours and lack of business. But the store will return next year, probably in a new location. · 

Soaal<nao--3,4 
Browne ousted by OBUD, reinstated by senate SBP candidate admits ••
.,.__to campaign violations ' ................_ 
--I'IIMhbe.. .....nol
, ....... 
but ........,... 
~-~ ' 
,._ 
SMC President resigns 

After 10 years at Saint Mary's, College President john Duggan announced his resignation in February. The resignation will take effect june 30, 1985. Saint Mary's endowment was increased from S 3 million to S 16 mil­lion during Duggan's tenure. Two buildings were built: the Cushwa-Leighton Library and the Angela Athletic Facility. A search committee has been formed to find a new president by january 1, 1986. 



Parietals extended at SMC 
Saint Mary's students were allowed to have men in their rooms until midnight during the week and until 2 
a.m. on Friday and Saturday nights for the first time in the school's history. College President john Duggan gave his okay to the student government plan, which was compiled from months of planning. The student government proposal pa~sed the Student Affairs Coun­cil ofthe Board of Regents and then went to Duggan for 


approval. 
ND takes MS competition 
Notre Dame won the first annual Millions Against MS Fundraiser, raising more money per capita than 11 ot­her Midwestern universities. Notre Dame students con­tributed an average of S3.31 each, for a total of 522,676. Marquette, the runner-up in the competition, raised ap­proximately $22,300. The prize for winning the com­petition, which benefited the National Multiple Sclerosis Society, was a free concert by Styx guitarist Tommy Shaw. 


Senate extensions ruled invalid 
A five-member committee of the judicial Council tuled that the Student Senate's vote to extend their terms was unconstitutional. As a result, a new constitu­tion, which was passed by the senate during the exten­sion, became void and the old constitution came back into effect. The committee decided the vote to extend the terms was invalid because two-thirds of the senate members present approved the motion, rather than two-thirds ofthe entire senate. 
'MooiK'IIIIdrea'. _.. 10 


Carroll Hall rector resigns 
Father Steve Gibson announced in April he will not be returning as rector ofCarroll Hall next vear. Gibson said he and Father David Tyson, vice president for stu­dent affairs, "reached a mutual agreement that it would be best if(he) did not return as rector next year." Gib­son wa'> elected Senior Fellow by the senior class several weeks ago. Elected Rector of the Year last year by the Hall Presidents' Council, Gibson was a runner-up for that award this year. 



J!:lli 
The Observer Friday, May 17, 1985-page 11 
The Top Ten Sports S1tories of 1984-85 
Irish booed offhome field 
It was the low point ofthe football season as Irish fans voiced their displeasure after watching an inspired Air Force team take advantage of Notre Dame's inability to stop the wishbone to hand the Irish the second ofthree straight defeats in Notre Dame Stadium, 21-7. Backup quarterback Scott Grooms, starting for the injured Steve Beuerlein, had trouble with a wet field, and Notre Dame's rushing game netted just 90 yards on the after­noon. The Falcons rolled to their third straight victory over Notre Dame, leaving Gerry Faust's Irish 3-7 in their last 10 games at home. 
~i!<l!tS ______ _ 



Cross-country reaches NCAAs 
The .13th-ranked Irish capped off one their best seasons ever by earning a bid to the NCAA Cross­Country Championships held at Penn State. In the tournament, the Irish mananged a 19th-place finish with a total of 369 points, winding up only 44 points behind their pre-meet goal ofa top-1 0 finish. Mike Col­lins, Tim Cannon, Dan Garrett, Bill Courtney and Ed Willenbrink turned in solid performances to lead Notre Dame. Notre Dame had reached the NCAA Champion­ships by capturing the fourth and final qualifying spot at the NCAA District IV Qualifying Meet on Nov. 09 at the University ofIllinois. 
Sports =-"......... 

Notre Dame earns Alolul trip with vletory at USC NDaeufourth-ttraJahtwtn In rain-IOQ:ed LA Colileum 
Irish lockup Aloha Bowl bid 
Notre Dame journeyed to USC and won its fourth straight game, 19-7, over the Trojans in the rain-soaked Los Angeles Coliseum. Gerry Faust's prediction ofa 7-4 season, which seemed impossible five weeks earlier, were realized with the victory. With their impressive finish that also included wins over LSU, Navy and Penn State, the Irish landed a bid to the Aloha Bowl and com­pleted an impressive turnaround in a season that had seemed hopeless a month before. Although the Irish lost io SMU in Hawaii, 27-20, it was Notre Dame's strongest finish under Faust. 
After KWIII CORJeCUtive loacl to the Bruins, Notre o.mewiN at Pauley Pavilion. ~l-n 

UCLA winning streak stopped 
Ding dong, the witch is dead. UCLA's string ofseven straight wins over Notre Dame in basketball finally came to an end this season as the Irish handed the Bruins a 53-52 defeat in Pauley Pavilion. Freshman guard David Rivers lead the Irish with his 18 points and eight assists in front ofa national-television audience on 
Wommrwbe......,.,rocordloi0-7 

NBC. The players returned home to find approximately
I,000 students waiting to meet them at the main circle even though the clock read 2:50a.m. and the arctic chill ofa South Bend winter was in the air.


==~Ill 
Sports --··M--" 
Irish hold off Wanton for Important~ win 

Royal, Kempton keep hopes alive for NCAA Tournament 

Women win North Star title 
It's been quite a while since anyone besides a mem­ber of the maintenance crew cut down a net in the ACC, but Mary DiStanislao's women's basketball team had that pleasure on March 7 after clinching the North Star Conference title with a 72-57 thrashing of Dayton. The Irish finished the season at 20-8 ( 13-1 in the con­ference), as DiStanislao (Coach of the Year) and Keys (Player of the Year) earned conference awards and Mary Beth Schueth and Sandy Botham joined Keys on all-conference teams. Despite their success, however, Notre Dame was passed over by both the NCAA and the Women's NIT for a post-season bid. 
Sports __,,___,. 
lrllll tap n.,taa,..73, pill NCAA tolll'lleY bid 

Men reach NCAA Tournament 
It took four years, but the Notre Dame basketball team again reached the NCAA Tournament. The Irish capped off a 20-8 regular season with final-week vic­tories over Washington, Marquette and Dayton. With Notre Dame's added status as the nation's top indepen­dent, the Irish were placed at home for their tourna­ment games with Oregon State and North Carolina. Local fans also got a look at other ACC visitors Kansas, Ohio U, Auburn, Purdue and Middle Tennessee State as Notre Dame hosted first-and second-round games of the Southeast Regional. 


Fencers edged in NCAAs 
The Wayne State Tartars successfully defended their national championship, edging out Notre Dame by a single point, 141-140, in the NCAA Championship Tournament hosted by the Irish in the Angela Athletic Facility at Saint Mary's. As Coach Mike DeCicco putit, it was the 10-9 bouts that did Notre Dame in -the Irish dropped three critical matches by that one-point mar­gin as their bid for a national title fell just short. 
Sports 
Fun Bunch aeu Ita revenae, conquers Rousseau's 

~~~··::::> 
. ~-· 

.n1e Fun Bunch gets its revenge 
."r. ..

The members of The Revenge of the Fun Bunch proved that they weren't kidding around when they 
""!":'.:.:·:.:.~­
--... s

named their entry for Bookstore XIV. The Fun Bunch ---·-·-·--:1:
~i~;~·~-::"w'::'l~oa=i ~~!~E'"?.li"'i:

avenged last year's semifinal loss to Macri's Deli by win­ning the tournament championship with a 21-16 vic­tory over Rousseau's Noble Savages. Tournament MVP Steve Treacy led Fun Bunch to the title, but he got plenty of help from backcourt mate Pat Collins and a 
-~iii

strong frontline that featured Tom Rehder, Greg Din­
~. in SSth Blue-Gold gamegens and Matt Dingens. 
Sp>orts 

lrilhradi.!OOplaleoa wllb 7-1, l-1 oweeplaa orw...., 
SMC plagued by resignations 
On May 1, swim coach Dan Flynn became the fourth Saint Mary's coach to resign in the 1984-85 academic year. His announcement came within a week of Assis­tant Director of Athletics Tim Dillon's resignation, and followed basketball coach Mike Rouse's departure and tennis coach John Killeen's exit the previous semester. Like the others, Flynn cited disappointment with the current administration as one of the reasons for his decision. 

~Tomen's tennis places·second 
It was the final time around in Division II competition as the Notre Dame women's tennis team took second place in the NCAA National Championships. The Irish lost to three-time winner Tennessee-Chattanooga in the finals ofthe tournament'after beating Abilene Chris­tian and Cal Poly Pomona the day before. Notre Dame, wlilich had placed third each of the last two years, now moves up to Division I play next year after posting a 2:i-5 record this season. 

Friday, May 17, 1985 -page 12

Sports Briefs 
Spring sports wrap-up 
Tom Sluby, Irish basketball star of one year ago, recently 
Baseball team starts MCC playoffs
was waived by the NBA's Dallas Mavericks. Sluby, a second-round selection of the Mavericks in last June's NBA draft, became expen­By lARRY BURKE Grote started as an attackmandable because of Dallas' three first-round selections in this year's AssisMnt Sports Editor during his freshman year, but he was
draft. -The Observer 

Track moved to midfield, where he has The Irish baseball team staged a played the last two seasons. In three 
tremendous stretch run to wind up The Notre Dame track team is in years, the Simsbury, Conn., native fullback tandem on the Notre Dame football team, recently signed 
Chris Smith and Mark Brooks, last season's 
its regular season at the .500 mark Philadelphia this weekend to com­has netted 31 goals and handed out with NFL teams as free agents after going undrafted in the April 30 
( 25-25-2) and land second place in pete in the in the l09th edition of 33 a~sists, which ranks him seventh NFL draft. Smith signed with the Kansas City Chiefs, while Brooks 
the Midwestern City Conference the IC4A Championships. The meet, on the all-time Irish scoring charts. Northern Division with an 8-4 con­which will be run tomorrow and O'Leary recently hao; toyed with the
tagged on with the Indianapolis Colts. -The Observer ference mark. The Irish fell just short Sunday at Villanova, is the final idea of moving Grote back to attack of division champion Xavier, which tuneup for the Irish before next to take better advantage of his finished at 9-3. week's Central Collegiate Con­scoring ability.
The Notre Dame-Navy football game in 
Notre Dame will open play in its ference Championships, slated for 1986 will be played at Memorial Stadium in Baltimore. The Irish will second Midwestern City Con­May 24 and 25 at Eastern Michigan. O'Leary knows he can count onplay host to The Midshipmen in Notre Dame Stadium in the 1985 ference Tournament in the past "The IC4A meet is second only to Rice to provide strength and unitycampaign. The game has alternated between Notre Dame Stadium three seasons today. The tourna­the Penn Relays as far as the Eastern for the Irish defensive unit. A 5-I I, and Giants Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J., in recent years. -The ment is held in Tulsa, Okla., the track scene is concerned," says Irish 190-pound native of Geneva, N.Y.,
Obsen'er 

home of Oral Roberts, the MCC coach joe Piane. "We've been com­Rice has an agressive style of play Southern Divsion champ and Notre ing here for a long time, and we've that features plenty of hard check­Dame's first opponent in the tour­got the talent to do well again." ing.
Jim 'Spook' Daves, Notre Dame sports .inform~tion 
ney. Evansville will JOtn Notre IC4A qualifiers include Bill Other awards presented at the intern, will leave his position this summer to accept the JOb ofDtrec­
Dame, Xavier and Oral Roberts in Courtney in the steeplechase, Uoyd banquet include the MVP award, tor of Media Relations for the Midwestern Cities Conference. Notre 
the double-elimination tournament, Constable in the high jump, John which went to current senior co­Dame is an associate member of the conference, participating in 
which will determine the MCC McNelis in the 800 meters, Robert captain Justin Shay. A native of Car­baseball, golf, cross country, men's tennis, men's swimming and in­
champ and the recipient of an Nobles in the 400 and 800, James lisle, Mass., Shay becomes the only door track. Daves will assume the postJuly I.-The Observer 
automatic bid to tlhe NCAA Regional Patterson in the long and triple player ever to earn MVP honors Tournament. jumps, Van Pearcy in the 100, 200 twice. Over the la~t two-and-a-half and 400, Dan Shannon in the 400, The other Irish co-captain, senior Edmonton's Jari Kurri scored four goals and 
weeks, Larry Gallo's Irish have been Mitch Van Eyken in the 200 and 400, Bob Trocchi, received the Dedica­Wayne Gretzky had four assists last night as the defending Stanley 
red hot, winning I4 of their last I9 andJeffVanWie in the 800. tion Award for his efforts on attack. Cup champions trounced the Chicago Black Hawks, 8-2, in Chicago 
games. Highlights of the final week At the recent track/cross-country The award for most improved player Stadium to advance to the National Hockey League's championship 
ofthe regular season included an I I­banquet, McNelis and Joel Autry went to freshman midfielder Tom series. The Oilers, I 1-2 in the playoffs, will meet Philadelphia in the 
I win over Illinois-Chicago, a 7-I, 2-were named co-captains for the Lanahan. Stanley Cup finals starting Tuesday in Philadelphia. -AP 
1 doubleheader sweep over 1986 track season. Patterson was The Notre Dame Club of St. Western Michigan, and a 7-3, l-0 elected this season's track MVP and Joseph Valley presented senior twinbill sweep over 27th-ranked Nobles took home the most im­midfielder John Wilson with the Maine, which halted the Black Bears' proved award. John Magill and Jim traditional Student/Athlete Award
Notre Dame graduate Dave Poulin scored with 
I7-game winning streak. Tyler were named co-captains for for academic achievement. Sop­Philadelphia two men short last night and goalie Pelle lindbergh Freshman Kevin Chenail con­next fall's cross-country team, while homore defenseman Ed Phillipsrecorded his third shutout ofthe playoffs as the Flyers rolled to a 3-0 tinued his fine pitching in the Tim Cannon received the cross­received the team's Spirit Award. 
victory over the Quebec Nordiques in the Spectrum. The Flyers nightcap against Maine, tossing a country MVP award and Magill got Other seniors that were honored eliminated the Nordiques. 4-2, in their best-of-seven semifinal series two-hitter to raise his record to 4-0 the most improved award. at the banquet include goalie Rob w reach the Stanley Cup finals for the fifth time in the last I 1 years. 
and lower his MCC-leading ERA to Simpson, attackmen Bill Varanka and 
·AP 

1.55. Kevin Rooney, and midfielders Dan 
"We've played tremendous Lacrosse Burns,Joe Hart and Dwayne Hicks. baseball these last few weeks of the Trocchi finished his third seasonMichaeljordan,whose flashy style and gaudy statistics season and probably the biggest fac­At the ftfth annual lacrosse ban­as the team's leading scorer, windingearned him All-Star status, fan popularity and more than S2 million in tor has been the improved pitching quet last week, Coach Rich O'Leary up with 32 goals and 27 assists.
endorsement contracts, was named the National Basketball Associa­we've gotten out of the starters," announced that seniors Tom Grote During the season, he became Notretion Rookie of the Year yesterday. Jordan, the Chicago Bulls guard notes Gallo. ''I'm extremely proud of and Mike Rice will serve as captains Dame's all-time leading scorer withwho was the No. 3 pick in last year's NBA draft, outpulled the No. 1 every one of the guys on the squad for next season. Both players will be 143 career points (84 goals, 59 a~­choice, Houston's Akeem Olajuwon, 575 votes to 205. Jordan and because we went through some entering their fourth season as sists). After transferring to NotreOlajuwon were the only two first-year players to receive votes from tough times early in the season but starters, with Grote heading the of­Dame in his sophomore year, Troc­the 78 voting media members. -AP still came back to play good baseball fense from his midfield spot and Rice chi needed only three years to break and make the tournament." taking charge ofthe defense. Steve Prarsall's mark of 125 points. 
Th.. ()hs..n·er :'1/otrc: Dam<· otfin:. i<Katnl on thl· third noor of l.aFortunl· Stu<.knt ( •·ntn. a<Tc:pts da"ifkd adn·rtisin~: from') a.m umil f p.m...\lunda• throu~:h Frida\· Tb<' Ohsert•er Saini .\tan··, olfin·. located on th<· third nour of llag~:ar Coll<·~:c: C<·ntn. J<Tepts da-sifinb from 1.? .~0 p m. until .~p.m .. .\ton· da~· though frida\· Deadline for m·xt·da\ cla"ilieds " 5 p m. All da"ifkds 
must ht• prepaid. t·ithn in pc:rson or h•· mail ( har~:t· is I 0 n·nh pc:r five ,·harac tc:rs n daY. 




Classifieds 
NOTICES 

TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8997 
WORDPROCESSING • 2n-fl045. 
LOST/FOUND 

LOST:IN SOUTH DINING HALL on Apnf 
25. a green backpack contain 1ng 3 
folders. 3 notebooks. an accounting book. a management book, pens. penctla. a cal­culator. 3 packs of gum. and othfll' •mpor· tan! atuff. If you have any into about this. thtnk you know where tt mtght be, or JUS! want to talk. call Chns at 3244 or 3243. I really need th1a atull tor f•nals Thanks. 
LOST: A green Comparat1ve G011ernment notebook and a red Pol1!1cal Theory notebook They both have my name. dorm. and room number tn them If found, contact John K1lcran 1n Sarin Half. room 
335. My number~& 2196 
IF YOU TOOK A PRINCIPLES OF MARKETING BY ACCIDENT FROM F­LINE IN NORTH DINING HALL ON TUESDAY APRIL 30 BETWEEN 12:30 AND t:OO. f REALLY NEED THAT BOOK FOR A FINAL YOU CAN HAVE IT AFTER. CALL KIM AT 4205 NO QUES­TIONS ASKED. REALLY 
LOST: A In-color 14K gold mesh bracelet With a daep fasten. on Fnday 4-27-85. Th11 11 an anniversary present and has great sentimental value. If found please contact Rounne 239-6436 at the Finan­cial Aid Office. Reward ol $25 '"offered if found. 
LOST: Lev•·• blue dentm f8C)<et. at Sen1or Bar on Mon mght. My name 11 on the 
•na1da of the coat. PLEASE caM me. my soul •• 1n that jacket Thanks 
LOST (or stolen?): one b<1ght red 14· canoe With Strange Canoe Rentals pa1nted on the side. The canoe walked away from Lake Manon Thursday. April 25 about 8:30 pm. If you have any in­formation call the AN TOSTAL office at 239-7668. We won't ask any questions. 
"loat'' .blue bookbag 1n the south dimng hall It could have walked off but I behove someone has it. My name IS all over the 5 notebooks 1ns1de..please grve me a call or drop 11 off where you found it. If I go through lrnals wtthout it I Will forever pray that you are hit head on by a sem1. 
LOST. ONE GOLD DANGLING EAR· RING WITH TWO PEARLSATTHE END. LOST ON FRIDAY 19TH OF APRIL.THE NIGHT BEFORE THE CHARITY BALL. IT HAS GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE· A GIFT FROM MY GREAT­GRANDMOTHER. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL LOUISA AT 283·t330. REWARD' 
FOUND: M~nofta lens cap. In field by Madafeva. Check With SMC secunty. 
FOR RENT 
5--room houee available lor next achool yHr. Completely turntahed. Call 234-93&4. 
WANTED 
I 

NEED.ME.MBER.ND-SMCCOMMti'NiTY TO DRIVE NEW CAR TO SEA TILE AND DRIVE CAR BACK BY JUNE 15. CALL 232-0453. 
WANTED TO BUY· MACINTOSH 512K COMPUTER, IMAGE WRITER, AND EX· TERNAL DISK DRIVE. CALL 234-4027 I A.M. TOe P.M. 
Wanted to buy a 1983 DOME yearbook. Call255-7103 after 5:00pm 
Female needed to uhare 2 bdrm apt In N.Chlcago Suburb: Wheeling, Nonhbrook, Arlington Hte, Highland Park or aurroundlng erMa atartfng In July. Call Kay 4093. After Gred-414­725-0880. 
MARKETING Graduating Seniors interested in Adver­tising/Marketing/Sales. Large mtdwestern publishing house is looking for you' Contact Kathleen (312) 256­8600 
FOR SALE 
6-UNIT APARTMENT FOR SALE. NO­MEMORIAL AREA. EXCELLENT CONDITION 233-9728. 232-4528 
BICYCLE BOOK RACK. call Man. 3363 
TICKETS 
HELP! need3 grad. tix call mark x1204 
I REALLY need one graduat1on ticket. Will pay BIG BUCKS. Eric 3654 
.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . f Need Grad Tlx BAD I Will TOP all other offers!$$$ Call Tom 232-6697. 
GRAD TIX'S NEEDED BADLY' WILL WHEEL AND DEAL FOR THEM CALL 
rTIM_A_T-27-7--03-31----.., 
I PERSONALS 
ATTENTION MfKERAABf 
It's been a lot of fun hav1ng you here ­we're going to miss you. but not your warped sense of humor! 
LovE>. Susan and Laura Madman. 
Who is go~ng to take care ot my nose when you're gone? Keep in touch. and if you're ever in the neighborhood and want to go to Denny·s 
ATTENTION ALL OBSERVER SENIORS: YOU'VE ALL BEEN GREAT IN­FLUENCES ON THE NEW EDITORIAL 
BOARD IN MORE WAYS THAN ONE. THE PRESENCE OF SUCH OBSERVER GREATS AS SULLY. MADMAN. GROTE. MEL. AND OTHERS WILL BE FELT FOR YEARS TO COME. LATE NIGHTS ON THE THIRD FLOOR OF LAFORTUNE WILL NEVER BE THE SAME. LOVE YOU. THOSE WHO WILL ATTEMPT TO FOLLOW IN YOUR FOOTSTEPS 
Meg 
Saying goodbye is hard to do Especially to Inends as genUine as you I think of all the times that I truely had fun And you are involved 10 each and every one Tell Mike and Phyliss I think you came from good stock You're the cream of the crop· the best on the block But watt I don't want you to get this wrong rm only saytng "til later" never "so long·· ·cuz we'll always rematn in touch and oc­caSionally see Even if it is in Russia that yqu w1ll be So I'm writing to say thanx for always being there And that a person of your good nature is so very rare 
Met 
Class of 85: You've been a great group of people to work with. Congrats! and Good Luck out there 
-Katie "Kareer" 

They won't let us do nothing anymore. Pooh. Chriatopher RObin 
Anne O'Malley. 
Hi, how have you been, long time. no 
hear from in ·this section. Have a great 
summer, besuretowrite me. We still have 
to drink. 
ChesterW 
WELCOME. RODOLFO & LAURA OC­HOA. AND ALBA1! It's go1ng to be a great weekend-thanks for comrng! Love, Diana 
SCHMITTY. FRANK. SKEE. WHITEY, DAVE AND DON Thanks tor getting me on my feet fresh­man year Congratulattons on getting out. (I hope you all do.) Please take care of yourselves and watch out for flame throwers' Love, MARY FLYNN (a rallhfull hanger bngade member) 
CAROLYN GIBBS!!! My favorite cous1n at Notre Dame. (My only cousin at Notre Dame)! Congrats. Fame and Fortune are just around the corner! Watch out Jan Stephenson. there will be a new face on the LPGA tour' Best of Luck. John 
MADMAN-The next two years won't be the same without you. Good tuck in au you do. I'll be checking the Plain Deafer for you every day. Don't keep me wa1ti ng too long.' M.H. 
Goodbye. goodbye. goodbye 
It's Vonderheide fever on commence­ment weekend' 
A farewell is necessary before we part. 
But meeting again is certain tor those 
who are friends. 
The Schwerha Wllf get hers' 
Kev•n. Bama. Mark. Doug. John. Bob. B11f, Craig. Mark. Dave. John. Tim and other Naugh reSidents past and present. good luck with whatever you do and wherever you end up. It's been a lot of tun knowtng you these past few years. We'llseeya. 
,, q 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY SHEILA FLYNN! II I 
hope your 20th is the best Have a terrific 
summer and keep in touch-I'll miss you! 
love. Margaret 
P.S.-I.O.U. some 1ce cream. 
Congrato Jlml Good tuck In Law ochool. LOVE,K 
CP:Enjoy your last 2yrs here!Thanx lor betng a great friend&sis. Luv-K 
JO.Nance.Meg&AL:Thanx for leh1ng me be your flfth!Love.K 
Mlchele:Thank you for shanng&carr ng! Luv, K 
TARA LECHNER: Happy 22nd Birthday. and CongratulatiOns! Let's get psyched for Chicago! Ch1cago--so many men ...so much timet Snuggles. Leanne Michelle 
Theresa. 
I'm glad you are going to be joimng me 
up here next year, but don't even thtnk 
about learnrng to dnve the car. 
your favonte older s1ster, 
maryellen 
PATTY CHANDLER FOR GOD .... PATTY CHANDLER FOR GOD...PATTY CHANDLER It took her only 3 yHra, theta right, only 3 yHra­on academic God Look out E.F. Hutton then Harvard,then the World 
CONGRATULATIONS 
ALL YOU TOWNIES (FOR THE SUM­MER ANYWAY): WE ARE GOING TO HAVE SOME GREAT WEEKENDS THIS SUMMER. HOPE YOU'RE LOOKING FORWARD TO IT AS MUCH AS I AMI LOVE. THE CHICAGOAN (SORT OF) 
HEY JOE MURPHY' WE KNOW YOU'RE READING THIS­WISH YOU HAD BEEN HERE FOR THE LAST ONE SENIOR WEEK HAS BEEN LACKING SINCE YOU LEFT-NO ENTERTAIN­MENT IN DENNY'S OR AT THE OFFICE. DON'T FORGET TO WRITE• P.S. SAY HI TO DAD FOR ME 


-~------­
-------~--------------------------~­
The Observer Friday, May 17, l985-page 13 

Sharon Petro named NCAA IJtivision II coach of the year 
By PHIL WOLF 
AssistantSports Editor 
Notre Dame women's tennis coach Sharon Petro was named na­tional Division II coach of the year recently by the Intercollegiate Tennis Coaches Association. 
"I'm highly honored (by the award)," Petro said. "It's obviously a reflection on how well our team performed." 
Petro's team compiled a school­record 25 wins in its 25-5 spring season and finished second in the NCAA Division II tournament to Tennessee-Chattanooga last week 
"I think the award is a tribute to the entire athletic program at Notre Dame," Petro comment·ed. "We were allowed to stay at the Division II level, and that helped in our development. We went from III to II and next year the program rises to Division I. 
"We've had success on each level, and I see that continuing in the future." 
ARTHUR 
ANDERSEN 
&00; 

Sharon Petro 
This spring was Petro's last season as the head coach of the women's tennis team. This sum­mer, she will assume the respon­sibilities of an assistant athletic director at Notre Dame. 
Petro has compiled a 114-45 record (.716 winning percentage) in seven years as the Irish women's tennis coach. 
She previously was Notre Dame's first women's basketball coach, and she compiled a 49-20 record in three seasons. She led 
Tennis· 
continuedfrom page 16 
tournament. Panther, who finished 
·the year at 16-10, went out in the first round of singles play, losing to judy Clardy of Abilene Christian, 6­2, 6-1. Ironically, Panther had beaten Clardy, 6-4, 7-6, during team com­petition. 
Colligan, who finished as Notre Dame's top, individual player with a 21-6 record, got to the second round before dropping out. She topped Sandy Rodriguez ofCal Poly­Pomona for the second time in three days, 6-2, 6-0, before falling to Nor-teams to four state AlA W titles ­three in tennis and one in basket­ball. 
Last fall, the Irish captured their second-straight North Star Con­ference title, and Petro was honored as the NSC coach of the year. 
Petro joined women's swim­ming coach Dennis Stark and women's basketball coach Mary DiStanislao as the recipients of NSC coach-of-the-year honors in 1984-85. 
thern Colorado's Sandra Elliot, 6-3, 6-4. 
Panther-Lee, 20-6 on the season, advanced to the second round in doubles but then lost to the team of Susie Campbell-Laurie Woodhouse from Cal State-Northridge, 7-6, 6-4. The two had beaten the Southern Illinois-Edwardsville's doubles tan­dem of Elizabeth Calendar-Jan Petras, 7-6, 6-2, to earn the right to face Campbell-Woodhouse. 
As a team, Notre Dame closed the 
season at 25-5. 
Notre Dame graduates only Lee, LaFratta and Schnell from its present team. 

We are pleased to announce the following 1985 graduates of the University of Notre Dame have recently become associated with our firm: 
ATLANTA OFFICE  Kevin Q. McCarter, BA  DETROIT OFFICE  
William M. Grojean, BBA  Consulting  Brian A. Bartkowiak, BB~~  
Audit  Mary C. Minogue, BBA  Audit  
Richard M. Lewis, BBA  Consulting  William A. Montague, MS  
Consulting  Michael J. PigoH, BBA  Consulting  
David M. O'Haren, BBA Audit BALTIMORE OFFICE Jeffrey J. Allison, BBA Audit  Audit Edward C. Roohan, BBA Audit Marya R. Sakowicz, BA Consulting Jennifer C. Salvador, BA  HOUSTON OFFICE Paul D. Adelizzi, BBA Tax AnneHe C. Peterson, BS Consulting  
BOSTON OFFICE Thomas Breitenbach, MBA Consulting  Consulting Michael W. Schmutz, BS Consulting  INDIANAPOLIS OFFICE Verrita L. Washington, BIBA Tax  
Patrick D. Burke, BS Consulting  Jean M. Schommer, BBA Audit  LOS ANGELES OFFICE Bradford K. Amman, MBA  
William G. Goslee, BBA Audit  Julia A. Schwebel, BS Consulting  Tax Jeffrey C. Williams, BBA.  
CHICAGO OFFICE Samuel A. Awad, BS Consulting  Paul K. Sidrys, BA Consulting James W. Sowar, BBA Audit  Audit Frank S. Wosczyna, BB~. Consulting  
Susan M. Cessar, BBA  Sandi L. Stevens, BBA  MINNEAPOLIS OFFICE  
Consulting  Audit  Judy A. Fenlon, BBA  
Linda S. Cleveland, BBA  Jill K. Strenzel, MBA  Audit  
Consulting Patricia A. Conway, BBA Consulting Robert Davis, BA  Consulting Andrea M. Vargo, JD Tax Stephen H. Wagner, BA  NEW JERSEY OFFICE Daniel J. Brady, BBA Audit  
Consulting  Consulting  NEW YORK OFFICE  
Kathryn J. Donohoe, BA  Mary M. Welch, BBA  William J. McDermoH, BBA  
Consulting  Consulting  Audit  
Bernard Q Dy, BBA  Thomas E. Woidat, BBA  John T. McHugh, BBA  
Audit  Audit  Consulting  
MaHhew J. Eaken, BBA Audit Daniel P. Fallon, BBA Consulting Daniel S. Falter, BBA Audit  Andrew L. Wolf, BBA Audit CHICAGO ­WORLD HEADQUARTERS Steve Chang, BBA  PHILADELPHIA OFFICE' Ann M. Gobbie, BBA Audit Michele M. Marchio, BBA Consulting  
Sherri L. Flohr, BBA  Consulting  ST. LOUIS OFFICE  
Consulting  Stanton J. Taylor, BS  Jane D. Panfil, BBA  
James R. Gerbo, BS  Consulting  Audit  
Consulting Kathleen M. Hogan, BA  COLUMBUS OFFICE  TAMPA OFFICE  
Consulting Christine E. Jeffirs, BA  Robert J. Doone, BBA Consulting  Robert J. Becht, BBA Consulting  
Consulting  DALLAS OFFICE  TOLEDO OFFICE  
Kathleen M. Kelly, BBA Consulting  Steven C. Burt, BBA Audit  Patricia J. Stierwalt, BBA Audit  
Michael J. Kennelly, BBA Audit Thomas F. Knee, BS Consulting Mark D. Ludtke, BBA Consulting Kathleen M. Maher, JD  David A. Montoya, BBA Audit Sharon A. Soller, BBA Audit Marylou P. Yepsen, BBA Consulting  WASHINGTON, D.C. OFFICE Laura L. Deister, BBA Consulting James G. Koehr, BS Consulting Henry F. Lange, BBA  
Tax  DENVER OFFICE  Audit  
David M. Mastic, BBA  Jerome R. Judd, BBA  Thomas J. Treat, BBA  
Consulting  Audit  Consulting  

We are also pleased to welcome the following 1985 Saint Mary's College gradualtes to our firm: 
CHICAGO OFFICE HARTFORD OFFICE Mary Carol Daly, BBA Cynthia D. Varanka, BBA 
Audit Audit 
Lynn M. Lambke, BBA 
LOS ANGELES OFFICEAudit 

Joanne M. Indelicato, BBA Julie A. Strazzabosco, BBA 
AuditAudit 

v u A R N E T 
ORDER NOW TOLL FREE 800-521-7225 In cent. 800-321-7645 Ex.50 

Receive FREE VUARNET-FRANCE sunglass leash with sunglass orderl Meganet offers the complete line of VUARNET sunglasses. Send $1.00 for 
Catalog. Hurry, FREE leash offer limited. 
8530 Wilshire Blvd., Suite 309,
MEGAnET 
Beverly Hills, CA 90211 


DePaul University 
School of Accountancy 
Review Course for the November 1985 .. 
CPA Examination 
June 17-0ctober 28, 1985 
The 59th DePaul University CPA Review is now accepting enrollments for the Summer 1985 Review. The Review features live classroom instruction, an all-CPA/all-professor faculty, convenient location and session options. and special repeat tuitions. The Review has an open admission policy. 
The last 58 reviews maintained: "70% or over pass/condition rate "over 85 medals and awards (statewide and nationwide) 
NO review can match the coverage, the instruction. the faculty and the experience of the DePaul CPA Review Course. For information call 
(312) 341-8640.  
DePaul University 25 E. Jackson Blvd. (Wabash & Jackson) Chicago  Monday, Wednesd,ay, Friday, 6-9 p.m. Tuesday, Thursday, 6-9 p.m. . Saturday, 9-12 Noon  

q:, DePaulUniversity 

·-------------------------------,
School of Accountancy DePaul University 25 E. Jackson Boulevard Chicago, Illinois 60604 
Please send mea brochure and admission from the DePaul University CPA Review Course. 
Name __________________________________________ 
Address--------------------------------------­
City------------------State __Zip--------­

ARTHUR ANDERSEN & Co. 
33 WEST MONROE STREET, CHICAGO, IL 60603 (312) 580.0033 
--------------------------------1 

..... -------­
The Observer Friday, May 1 7, 1985 -page 14 
Rivers named Athlete of the Year; Trena Keys takes women's honor 
By PHIL WOLF 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Men's and women's basketball players David Rivers and Trena Keys were named Notre Dame's Athletes of the Year by the Observer sports department last week_ 
Rivers, a 6-0 freshman guard from Jersey City, N.J., led the Irish men's squad to a 20-8 regular season record and its first NCAA bid in three years. 
Keys, a 6-I junior from Marion, Ind., paced the women's team to its most successful season ever, also a 20-8 mark. 
Both athletes gave credit to their teammates for the success of the teams' efforts. 
"I think the impact I made on the team came from the guys, the fel­lows on the team," Rivers said. "They kind of guided me along the way, so I think a lot of the credit should point in their direction." 
"I have to give a lot ofcredit to my teammates," Keys echoed. "Without their help, I wouldn't have been able to do what I did." 
Despite their modesty, both players turned in individual perfor­mances that reflect their talents. 
Rivers led all scorers for Notre Dame with a I S.8 points-per-game average, and his excellent ballhan­dling skills enabled the Irish to adapt a fao;t-paced style of play that enter­tained bao;ketball fans in the ACC and arenas around the country. The point guard's ability to penetrate defenses allowed him to create s<:oring opportunities for himself and to dish off 127 assists. 
Keys made the switch from for­ward to guard this season, and she did it well enough to become the Most Valuable Player in the North Star Conference. Her 17.2 points and S.6 rebounds led the Irish to their first-ever NSC championship with a 13·1 record. Keys currently ranks fourth on the Notre Dame all­time scoring list with 1002 points. She gave away 67 assists in the season. 
In addition, Keys' defensive play improved over the season, and she ended up with 37 steals and 43 blocked shots. The Irish placed in the top 20 in the country in scoring defense. 
"I decided over the off-season that I had to do something more for the team this year," Keys explained. "I just worked really hard toward that goal." 
Rivers' goal for his freshman season was to lead the Irish to a spot in the NCAA tournament, a dream which he saw become a happy reality when Notre Dame played two tournament games at home. 
"Just being able to sit down with the rest of the guys and find out where we were going to be playing was the biggest highlight of the season," Rivers said, "because I know there was a lot of doubt of us making it as far as we did." 

Noon Commencement Concert featuring: 
~~~ 
({~ J:!rv
'S v .JJ. 

cc;~enanrsans 
~L;i notre Dame's Singing and Da_nc1ng Ensemble 
When: Saturday, May 18, 1985 
12:00 noon Where: Fieldhouse Mall (by La Fortune) 
<Ill att tntltomt! i'tntots att tntoutagtl>' to bting tbtit tdativts an~ !titn~s! 
(Ram Locat.10n LaFortune Ball Room) 
NOW TWO LOCATIONS 
Sav-A-Bul< Rent-A-cars 
ASALSOW $1095 1'£1 DAY
IP'l.US TAll 

RiM In St~l• for L.ess Per Mile 
III(Nl IV OAV • llllffll• IIOII!TH 
.....at ·Wiaeels, lac. 
320 E. Ireland Road 3820 No. Gra_pe Rd. So. BEND MISHAWAKA 219-291-7788 219-256-5550 
Driver Restrictions Apply 
Rivers also cited the 53·52 Irish victory over UCLA at Pauley Pavilion and the Notre Dame student body's reaction to that win as another high point in the season. 
The lowest point in the young player's career came at the end of the season, he said. In the final seconds of Notre Dame's second· round tournament game with North Carolina, Rivers had the ball and the Irish had a chance to break a tie for the victory. When Rivers dribbled the ball off his foot, however, Notre Dame ended up on the short end ofa 60-S8 score. 
Keys' greatest disappointment was not making it to post-season competition. A trip to the NCAA tournament is her goal for the 198S· 86 season 
Rivers said he gained a lot of ex· perience in his first NCAA season, and he thinks the team has the potential to return to the champion· ship tournament next season. 
"I know what I can and what can't do against certain teams," he said, "and I think I will be a much better player next year. I think it's not impossible for us to go all the way." 
Rivers and Keys follow in the 
footsteps of Irish basketball player 
Tom Sluby and tennis player Pam 
Fischette, the recipients of the 1984 
Edward "Moose" Krause Athlete of 
the Year Awards. 
CONGRATULATIONS 
WILLIAM J. HAYNES 
Bachelor ofArchitecture We are all very proud of you!!! 
Olbwte,7Mn-, ,9'/wn(.~JI• '{!~ '{/h.w and ,Of'a#-an rllalla4' :Te~ 
DOMINO'S PIZZA WANTS YOU! 
We are the largest and fastest growing pizza delivery company and we can offer you the opportunity to grow with us. We are looking for hardworking, career-minded individuals preferably with some food or management background, to enter our management training program. For more details about this exciting career opportunity, call our toll free number: 

1-800-227·0032 or 1·800·227·0028 
(In Illinois) Delivery personnel positions also available throughout the Midwest offering very competitive salary. 



-~-~----~-----------­

~c:tcJIC3L~--------------------------------------F-ri-da•y-,M--ay_l_7_,1_9_8_5__p_a_g_e__ls 

The Daily Crossword 
Campus 
ACROSS 1 Calyx part 6 Where Iloilo 
Frlday,May17 •4:20 p.m. · Academic Procession begins,
Is 
Athletic and Convocation Center · North 

11 Pivotal 
•1 p.m. · Nurses Pinning Ceremony, Dome.
13 Apathy 
Church of Lo!l"etto. •5 p.m. · 6:30 p.m. · Baccalaureate Mass,
15 Tobacco type 16 Zane Grey's 
•4 p.m. · Ba-ccalaureate Mass, Angela Ath· Athletic and Convocation Center · South 
native state 
letic Facility. Dome. 17 Ripen 
•6:30 p.m. · Lawn Concert, Administration •7 p.m. · 8:30p.m. · Cocktall Party and Din­
18 Went wrong 
Building Mall, Sponsored by University Con­ner, (Tickets for each must be purchased in
20 Recreation 
cert Band. (If weather is inclement, the con­advance per information and ticket
areas: abbr. 
cert will be cancelled.) procliremnent procedures.
21 Abrades 23 Submit 
•9 p.m. · 1 a.m. · Senior Class Cocktail •9 p.m. · Concert, Stepan Center. Sponsored 24 Holy women: 
Reception/Dance. (tickets required). by University ofNotre Dame Glee Club. 
abbr. 25 Veep Barkley 
Saturday, May 18 ·Sunday, May 19 
27 From -Z 28 Cubic meter 29 Mediterranean 
•10:30 a.m. · St. Mary's Commencement, •9 a.m. · 1 p.m.· Brunch, North and South 
Court ofleMans Hall. Dining Halls, (Tickets must be purchased in 31 Cylinders of 
area 
•10 a.m. · ROTC Commissioning, Athletic advance; graduates with valid meal certifica­
a kind 
and Convocation Center · South Dome. tion need not purchase a ticket.) 
33 Where DOE led 
•11:30 a.m. · Phi Beta Kappa Installation, •1 0 a.m. · MBA Ceremony.
34 Actor Johnson 
Memorial Library Auditorium. Initiates are re­•1:35 p.m.· Academic Procession Begins,
35 Out-and-out 38 Callas at al. ©1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
quested to arrive at 11 a.m. Athletic and Convocation Center · North 
All Rights Reserved 

•2 p.m. · 3:3·0 p.m. · University Reception, Dome. 42 Mineral 
41 Appropriate 
Center for Continuing Education. Sponsored • 2 p.m.· Commencement and Conferring 44 Fudd of 6 Thought deeply 
by The Officers of the University. Families of ofDegrees, Athletic and Convocation Center 
cartoons about 
the graduates are cordially invited to attend. ·South Dome. (Tickets for admission to the
46 Lobby 7 Desert-like 
•4:05 p.m. · Graduates Assemble for Commencement Exercise arc required for
47 Quaffed 8 Pince·­49 Vedic god 9 One assuming 
Academic Procession, Athletic and Con­parents and guests.) 50 St. care 
vocation Center · Gymnasium 8 and 9 · •4:30 p.m.· Law School Diploma 51 Citizen of 10 NY suburb 
graduates only. Ceremony, Washington Hall. 
Vientiane 11 Famous Bow 53 Snapshot 12 Rope 
for short 13 Waco's unl· 54 Baby wear varsity 56 Mollusk 14 Billiards 58 Core stroke 59 Crescent-shaped 19 Of age: abbr. 60 Full of content 22 Sundry 61 Truman's 24 In a cold 
birthplace manner 
SObering~~¥­
26 Site of DOWN Durban 5/17/85 

cansavealife;,
1 Pier scavenger 28 Gape 38 Lowly 47 "Pride and 
,...........

2 Site ofair· 30 Negative 39 Sp. poppy of Prejudice" hero port rescue prefix song 48 Afghan city 
--~

Think Before You Drink .r'"" 
3 School org. 32 Eggs 40 Student group 51 Furnished 
-.4.

Before You Drive ' 
4 Placesof 35 Reversion to 41 Shutter 52 Zola novel 


refuge  primitive  43 Clavell's  55 Coal size  
5 Non-profes·  36 Free  "King-"  57 Abner's radio  
sionals  37 Knobby  45 Indy entrant  partner  

..........,.................J".......................,............J'~.-................tl'••thl'.........,. 
Dear Seniors, "Whether or not it is clear to you, no doubt 
Dear Kevin, Leanne, Chuck, Kelly, Todd, Lynne, the universe is unfoldingas it should." Vince, Bill, Angel, Tara, and Matt, -Desiderata Good luck on whatever path you choose tofollow. Love, 
have done. We will miss you!
The Student Activities Board 
Lee Broussard Orlando Griego Ron Mileti Rob Hoover Janet Grojean MikeRau Love, Jack Gallagher Anne DuCharme Steven Morita MikeVore Donna Callis Meegan Reilly 
,,_.......................J".................................-........,.•••••••• 
Friday, May 17, 1985-page 16 

ND women's tennis team falls short in bid for national title 
ByJEFF BLUMB its third straight national title with sets before losing, 6-4, 5-7, 6-3, at Sports Editor the victory. No.6. "I had said all seao;on thai we In doubles play, McCulloch­
After placing third in Division II would have to play our best tennis to Pitcher bested the No. 1 team ofPan­women's tennis each of the last two win the national championship," ther and Laura Lee, 6-4, 6-4. years, the Notre Dame women's ten­said Irish coach Sharon Petro. "I just Colligan-LaFratta went to three sets nis team had only one goal in mind don't think we did that against at No. 2, but came out on the short prior to this season -winning the na­Tennessee-Chattanooga. Still, this end against Yates-Massengill, 0-6, 6­tional championship. The Irish fell was the best season we've ever had 1, 7-'5. At No.3, terRiet-Warborough just one victory short ofthat goal last here at Notre Dame and I give a lot of defeated Dasso and Cathy Schnell, 6­week, though, losing to Tennessee­credit to the players." 3, 6-3, to complete the doubles Chattanooga, 8-1, in the finals of the The lone Notre Dame win against sweep for Tennessee-Chattanooga. NCAA Division II National Cham­the Moccasins was chalked up by "We have nothing to feel badly pionships. junior Mary Colligan at No. 2 singles, about," Petro said. "Second place is 
In their last year at the Division II as she topped Tennessee­not too shabby. No one except us level before a move up to Division I Chattanooga's Pam Yates, 6-1, 3-6, 7-knows the talent that Tennessee­next season, the Irish had earned the 5. Chattanooga has." right to play in the May 7 finals by Meanwhile, Susie Panther lost to Notre Dame had had little trouble rolling over Abilene Christian, 8-1, Sue McCulloch at No. I singles, 6-2, with their quarterfinal and semifinal and Cal Poly-Pomona, 7-2, the 7-6, as Usa LaFratta was falling vic­opponents, losing only at No. 2 previous day. tim to Christine Pitcher, 6-2,6-1, at doubles to Abilene Christian in the 
Notre Dame trailed Tennessee­No. 3 sin~les. Michelle Dasso and quarters and dropping just the No. 3 
Chattanooga, 5-1, following singles joanne Biafore also lost in straight and 4 singles matches to Cal Poly­
play at the Laurel Glen Tennis Club sets at No. 4 and 5 singles, Pomona in the semis. 
The Class of'85 bas seen more than itsfair share ofdisappoint­in Bakersfield, Calif., and the dishear­respectively. Dasso was beaten by On May 8-9, Panther, Colligan and 
I 
ments on the playingfield over the pastfour years, but the after­tened Irish were no match for the Heidi Warborough, 6-4, 6-1, and the doubles team of Panther-Lee math of1984 Penn Stategame, sboum above, was one ofthe many Moccasins in doubles, dropping all Biafore wa~ outdone by Sabine ter­continued to play on in the in­"Notre Dame moments" that the graduating class bas witnessed. three contests. Tennessee­Riet, 7-"i, 6-3. dividuals competition portion of the Senior Mike Sullivan takes a look at the pastfour years, both the Chattanooga, loser of only one lzzy O'Brien took her Moccasin 
disappointments andsuccesses, in his column below. match all season, walked away with opponent, Lori Massengill, to three see TENNIS, page 13 
t Seniors have had their share of 'ND Moments' 
Two minor bowl bids. One NCAA Tournament. No national quarter with a 76-yard touchdown run. The Irish returned to champion.~hips. No post-season Top 20 rankings. South Bend with a 31-16 upset and were met by a large group 
The box score for the Class of '8<; is pretty much complete ofsrudents -the first time that had happened since 1980. now. Things could have turned out worse, but, for most of us, •The 1983-84 year marked Notre Dame's first appearance the past four years have failed to live up to the lofty expecta­in a bowl since 1980 and a surprisingly good showing in the tions we held four years ago. NIT, but there were relatively few major events. Although the 
Nobody warned us about "i-6 and I 0-1 7 sea~ons. Nobody basketball team played well in the post-sea~on and the football told us that the "perfect" coach might turn out to be far from team retained supremacy among Catholic colleges by beating perfect. All we heard before we came here was how nice New Boston College and Doug Flutie in the Liberty Bowl, the big­
l 
Orleans was during the New Year's holidays, how good the gest moment came on January 28 when Digger Phelps and
I the good moments that we were part ofover our Notre Dame 
football team wa~ going to be, and how exciting it was to go to Tom Sluby upset No. c:; Maryland, c:; 1-48. It wao; Sluby's three­
~ careers -and, despite the overall lack of success, there were 
a school that had one of the best football and basketball teams point play with I 8 seconds left and the score tied that was the
plenry of"Notre Dame moments." 
in the country. After all, this was Notre Dame. And Notre key play. 
t • Although the 1981-82 season was a disaster for both the 
Dame always won. •This senior year has been a strange one, though. Things 
t football ( 5·6) and basketball ( 10-17) teams, there were three 
Well, four years have taught us that our expectations, al­started out poorly with the Hoosier Dome defeat to Purdue
I events that are hard to forget. The first of these is the LSU 
though very common to Notre Dame people, were a bit too and three straight home losses, but ended on an up-note with a
football opener. Not only was the game memorable because it . 
I 
unrealistic. We now know that the Irish cannot win simply by near-upset ofNorth Carolina in the NCAA Tournament. In bet­
was the Class of '85's first here and because it moved Notre 
walking onto the field or the court. ween were some very forgettable performances and a few
Dame to No. 1 in the country, but it also was accompanied by
Although God did not make Notre Dame No. I -at least not more "moments." One of those was the Penn State football
one of the best pep rallies NO has ever had. It's too bad there 
on the playing field, He has taught us a lesson in humility that game -a nice ending to a mediocre ( I 1-10) home football
weren't any other outdoor rallies. 
should stick with us the rest of our lives. Wins do not come career for the Class of'8'5. 
' I 
easily, not on the field and not in real life. Many times it The otht:r two big moments came on the basketball court The other memorable moments were supplied by David seemed that Notre Dame people expected to win, and when within an eight-day period during the· winter. On jan. 25, Rivers, whom, unfortunately, we could only enjoy for one they did, they didn't appreciate fully how lucky they were to 1982, the Irish knocked off No. 1 I Idaho in overtime, 50-48, year. There was the Indiana win, the UCLA win, the exciting have good teams. Even in September 1981, a trip to some behind 17 points from Ron Rowan (remember him?). Then, loss to Syracuse, and the double-overtime win at Dayton. But major bowl or to the NCAA basketball tournament was taken on Feb. 2, John Paxson and Mike Mitchell were the main for those who stayed around to enjoy it, the tournament at the for granted. figures in an upset of No.7 San Franci~co (remember them?). end ofthe year was the highlight of 1984-8<;. Even though the 
I doubt that any of us, after these four years, will make the Both games were in the ACC and helped the fans forget about Irish came so close, yet lost, to the Tar Heels, the tournament same assumptions. Air Force, Arizona, Fordham, Northwes­earlier home losses to Murray State and Northern Illinois. excitement and extravaganza, and the impressive play of tern, Murray State, Northern Illinois-there is no such thing as •The Michigan and Pitt football games were the highlights Rivers made it another unforgettable event. a gimme anymore. We have learned to respect everyone and of the 1982-83 season. Although games have been played un­to take nothing for granted. der the lights at the Stadium since then, the Sept. 18 Michigan Obviously, each individual will leave this place with dif­
It is these lessons that, in a sense, have made our four-year game will always stand out. Tony Hunter and Larry Moriarity ferent things that stand out in his or her mind. Some will journey a very worthwhile one. Sure, it would have been great were the offensive stars as the Irish moved out to a 24-10 lead, remember Gerry Faust and broken promises, others will to go to the Sugar Bowl or the Final Four, something which but a fluke touchdown by the Wolverines (on which the Mic­rememberJohn Paxson and his last-minute shooting, and still would have given us plenty to talk about at future reunions. higan re~eiver picked the ball off Stacey Toran's shoulder others will remember David Rivers' behind-the-back passes. But the main object of going to college is to learn things that pads) forced Dave Duerson to be the hero by intercepting a But sports are supposed to be fun, so it makes no sense to will help us once we graduate, and we have learned that you Steve Smith pass late in the game. remember Notre Dame for its losses and disappointments. In­don't win all the time-or even most ofthe time -so you should Later in the same season, the Irish traveled to Pitt to take on stead, remember Rivers throwing a pass to a unseen teammate appreciate those times when you win, no matter who or what the No. 1 Panthers and Dan Marino. Notre Dam.e was still while on his knees, or the football team arriving in the main you beat. recovering from a loss to Arizona and a 13-13 "loss" to circle after beating Pitt. 
Enough philosophizing, though. As we go on to bigger Oregon. However, Allen Pinkett introduced himself to a And, of course, remember never to take winning for things in the "real world," we might as well remember some of television audience by breaking the game open in the fourth granted. 
~-------~=~-----ilii~Yf-KiiSs-Jl-PiCiiiV!------1 I~~~·~ Ihe__ClJJsener ~~0 1
1

I ~· .. ..~_.:~ . . Keep up to date on Notre Dame and the Fightin' Irish through a home subscription to The Observer. It
·;r~ '·~~ ~ II 
..,.. -:..:-.~ only makes sense that a newspaper published by students is the best source of sports and news at your 
I I 
l I( _ ~~\'; 0~ ~f~! _.....;::.. ~ ~!~eac~::::·payableto: ITheObserver 
~ I 
I I z-t""~ ..,, . . ~ Iand mailto ~~~:g~~e. IN 46556 Name-·----------------·____..________ I 
0

t 
I ~ 0 Enclosedis$30ioroneacademicyear. Address_. __________ --------·-----I 
t 
~ I · D Enclosed is $20 for one semester. City ____ State ___ Zip __ I I 
I 
·--------------------------------------------­
f 
•

L 







