Aloha Bowl-page 14 

VOL XIX, NO. 74 the independent ~tudcnt ncw~papcr ~l n ing notrl damt· and ~aint mar~·~ THURSDAY, JANUARY 17, 1984 

Campus student store offers price alternative; set to open doors today 
By FRANK.J. MASTRO "This is a victory for the student News Staff government. We worked hard on this project and gave them (the ad­
The Notre Dame Student Saver ministration) every reason to say Store, designed to meet the needs of 'yes'," said Browne. the "cost conscious" student, opens Inventory problems were cited as at four o'clock this afternoon in the reason the store did not open Room 2-C of the Lafortune Student yesterday, as originally planned. The Center, adjacent to the Chautauqua supplier for the store is Broadmore Ballroom. Pharmacy in the Scottsdale Mall. The 
For the shopper's convenience, pharmacy's distributor in Ohio suf­
the store will be divided into two fered a strike during the semester categories -school supplies and break. The goods were scheduled to health/beauty aids. School supplies 
arrive last night so the store could include: notebooks, legal·pads, pens, open today. pencils, paper, tape and envelopes. Schimpf's and Assistant Manager Items such as shampoo, hair spray 
Keith Spatz's duties include filling and cotton swabs will be found un­out a daily report sheet, placing in­
der health and beauty aids section. ventory orders and counting inven­tory each week. They oversee the "I want to emphasize that this is 
workers and write what has to be 
pate in theforeign studiesprogram at Oxford Uni­
not a generic store," said store Gen­done each day. 
versity in England. See story below.
eral Manager Rick Schimpf. "We sell There will be ten general workers 
what is known as second label prod­in the store, each receiving a salary. 
ucts. These are products that are 
These people were chosen from brand names but not top of the line 
nearly 70 applications received. The brands. 
main qualification for prospective 
ND se:nior named Rhodes Scholar;
"When I think of generic prod­employees was to be registered with ucts," said Schimpf, "I think of black 
the Financial Aid Office. Jobs were and white labels. We have maybe 
given to those who needed it the 

one of the 32 U.S. students chosen 
four or five of those labels in the most. 
store and it's for rubbing alcohol and Long-range plans for the store ex­

cotton swabs and other products By lliERESA GUARINO tion of several small colleges, each medical stories because their tech­
tend until the end of the semester. It 

where brand names don't matter." AssistantNews Editor with dorm and classroom facilities. nical aspects are difficult to under­
will remain in Room 2-C of Students meet with a tutor in their ·~stand, and scientists are not always
Because store items will be priced Lafortune throughout the spring se­
A Notre Dame senior has become field once a week, who gives assign­le to communicate what they aremester. After the remodeling ofalmost at cost, Schimpf said large 
one of 32 Arnericam; named Rhodes ments and directs them through do . volume sales are needed to make the 
Lafortune, Room 2-C will no longer Scholars this year. their course of study. Tests are ad­"As a scteQ.tist, I can participate in
exist. The store's managers hope tostore a success. All profits, ifany, will Bob Vonderheide, a chemical en­ministered by the University. 

the public debate over technologygo directly to the Student Activities move the store into the basement 
gineering major from Lexington, 

Board. which has been designated as an Vonderheide said medical school that we do," he said. 
Ky., is the first Notr•e Dame student a possibility right

The concept of a student-run area where all student businesses after Oxford is The application process began
in seven years to win the scholar­
now. He plans to become a bio­

store was an outgrowth of a survey will be located. last semester. Students first
ship, given on the basis of"quality of

"I'm very optimistic about the engineer, and "ifI have to go to med nominated themselves to win theconducted by Student Body Presi­
both character and intellect." Von­
school for it, I will." 

possibilities of the store," said endorsement of their school. Atdent Rob Bertino last year. The sur­
derheide is also editor-in-chief of vey revealed that 88 percent of the Schimpf. Vonderheide sees opportunities Notre Dame, a committee chaired
The Observer. 

Both Browne and Schimpf have by Rhodes Scholar and English Pro­
students would support a student­for himselfnow that he never would
Vonderheide will be studying 

run store. As a result, a committee stated that the Student Saver Store is have had otherwise. "I have the op­fessor Don Sniegowski chose six stu­
biochemistry at the University of 

not competing with the Bookstore. dents. The students then applied for
was formed to investigate the pros portunity to travel, and to study a
Oxford in England next year with and cons ofsuch a store, said student Tyson has informed the store that it highly technical field at a university the scholarship either in their state
Rhodes Scholars from 14 different senator Pat Browne. that thrives on the humanities.
is not permitted to sell any items of residence or in the state of
countries. "I'll be earning a technical degree

identical to those in the Bookstore. Indiana. Vonderheide applied in
"I'm slowly getting used to it,"

The committee was originally The store will be open from 4 p.m. at that good Kentucky and was interviewed
said Vonderheide. "It was over­a place encourages writing and good thinking."

chaired by Lee Broussard before to 8 p.m., Monday through Friday. there in December. The Kentucky
whelming right when it happened.

being passed to Browne. The com­"This whole project was under­interview committee was com­
The award seemed far bigger than I

mittee submitted an 86-page report taken to meet the student's needs. Vonderheide said he thinks this prised ofseven members ofdifferent
am." 

to the administration and the store Theywanted a store like this. We put type of background will be advanta­backgrounds, primarily former was eventually approved by Father in a lot of time and effort. I hope the Vonderheide will be leaving in geous. With experience in Rhodes Scholars. David Tyson, vice president for stu­students respond to it," Schimpf October to enroll at Oxford's Uni­journalism, he sees a problem with 
see RHODES, page 4

dent affairs. said. versity College. Oxford is a federa-the press "sensationalizing" many 

Profit is top priority in some hospitals says ND professor 
Special to The Observer fessional Employees, AFL-CIO. Craypo and Lehman fear that as will be affected. "Privitizatlon and predictable rates of return from Profit-making health-care chains more and more hospitals (which ac­centralization ofhealth care during a declining facilities and were quies­
Profit-making hospital chains and are, according to the authors, "large, count for 40 percent of the nation's period of hospital cost containment cent in the face of mounting foreign health care services may be hazar­diversified concerns. . . structured health care expenditures) are so are likely to further polarize the competition. In the end they scaled dous to societal health, according to like the integrated manufacturing structured, health care delivery is in­labor force, not only in terms of dif­back domestic production activities Charles Craypo, chairman and pro­corporations that have long creasingly a "two-tiered system. At ferences in direct earnings but also in the traditional product lines and fessor of economics at Notre Dame dominated American basic industry. one are those Americans fortunate in the distribution of job opportuni­diversified into other businesses, and Mary Lehman, graduate student Like them, investor-owned chains enough to be fully msured or have ties, economic security and work abandoning the secondary firms and in economics from Cornell Univer­exist to make money for their the ability to pay for quality health satisfaction," according to thepaper. communities that depended on the sity. owners; the things they produce and care ... At the other end are the uni­basic industries.... Investor-owned
Craypo and Lehman conclude 
Craypo and Lehman, in a recent see are incidental to the main pur­nsured and inadequately insured, health care chains are structured
that the most ominous potential 
paper titled, "The Impact of pose.Just as steel, and more recently the elderly, the indigent, and those and managed ... for the same mone­
results of "investor-owned control" 
Investor-Owned Health Care Chains oil and chemicals, happen to be other Americans who exist outside tary purpose. There is nothing to
ofAmerican health care are sugges­
on Labor and Community," argue commodities U.S. Steel trades in, the established private medical in­prevent them, therefore, from ex·
ted by the history of other con­
that the increasing influence of health care is how the Hospital Cor­surance system." ploiting the ongoing profit potential
solidated industries such as steel and 
private enterprise places profit, not poration of America makes its in American medicine and then
automobile manufacture and tele­
service, at the top of the health care money." For this reason, they say, Nor, say the authors, will this moving on to some other com­
phone service. 
industry's scale ofvalues. investor-owned· health care chains polarization be limited to patients. modity after events have changed pay disproportionate attention to af­Hospital employees, already "The dominant firms became the health care environment enough The paper was prepared by the fluent patients and lucrative markedly divided into professional productively complacent," they to make it an unattractive invest­authors for the Department for Pro-services. and unskilled labor categories, also wrote. "They continued to extract ment." 

~ 
~he Observer 

In Brie£ 
The aCCOUnting program in Notre Dame's Col­kge of Business Administration has been rated seventh best in a na­tional poll of professors, only two points behind sixth place Brigham Young. Last year, Notre Dame was in eighth place. "An outstanding faculty and excellent students attracted to the Notre Dame program" were reasons listed by Leonard Savoie, chairman of the accountancy department, for the high ranking in the ,annual poll conducted by Public Accounting Report. Other schools finishing bdore Notre Dame arc lllinois, Texas, Michigan, Southern California and Ohio State. Trailing Notre Dame were programs at Wisconsin, Missouri, Michigan State, Stanford, Wharton, California-Berkeley, Virginia, Chicago, Penn State, Georgia, Florida, Minnesota and Washington. Programs at Indiana, New York University, Oklahoma State and Ala­bama fell from the Top 20 list. -The Obseroer · 
Governor Robert Orr has proclaimed January t3-I9 as "Financial Aid Awareness Week" in Indiana. Supported by the Indiana State Financial Aid Association, the State Student Assistance Commission of Indiana and United Student Aid Funds, Inc., financial aid counselors will help local residents learn more about what finan­cial aid is available, how and when to apply, application needs and eligibility. Colleges and universities participating locally are Bethel Collt:ge, Holy CrossJunior College, Indiana University at South Bend, Indiana Vocational Technical College, Michiana College of Com­mt·ree, Saint Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame. A "hotline" number, .259-85 ll, will be available from 6:30 until 9 p.m.­
The Obsen'£'~" 
Associate Professor of Communication & Theater at Notre Dame, Frederick Syburg, was named Best Director of 1984 in the South Bend area by theater critic CarlaJohnson of theSouth Bend Tribune "for his masterful direction of Harold Pinter's 'The Hot­house'." Also recognized was the cast, receiving an award for Best Ensemble Acting. -The Obseroer 
A $50,000 grant from the Exxon Education Foundation was awarded to the Notre Dame Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts for its 1985-86 Distinguished Visiting Scholars Series. 'lbe series is designed to attract scholars from outside the University for several days ofinteraction with Notre Dame's faculty and students. During the 1985-86 school year, eight academic departments and one interdis­ciplinary program within the University's College of Arts and Letters will sponsor the series, each bringing three to five visiting scholars to address a common theme. -The Obseroer 
Of Interest 
Comedian Don Novella. formerly of "Saturday Night Live," will present two concert appearances Saturday, January 19 at 8 and I 0 p.m. in Washington Hall. Novella, who includes Father Guido Sarducci among his characterizations, is the author of two books, "'llle Lazlo Letters" and "The Blade." His appearance is sponsored by the Student Activities Board. Advance tickets, priced at SS, will be on sale in the LaFortune Student Center Record Store. Remaining tickets will go on sale at the door for $6. -The Obseroer 
The Saint Mary's College Financial Aid Data Sheet must be received by Saint Mary's and the Financial Aid Form must be rel·eived by the College Scholarhsip Service no later than March I, 1985. Students who are applying for only the Guaranteed Stl1dent Loan should submit all forms between May I'; and July I 5, 1985. Any student with questions about financial aid or student employment should visit the Financial Aid Office at LeMans Hall, Room 1';0 or call .21-!4-4557. -1be Obsen•er 
~ co~puter-aided design laboratory is ?emg_estabhshed in Notre Dame's Department of Electrical Engineer­mg wtth the donation of a "supermini" computer and related hard­ware from the Hewlett-Packard Co. Valued at $100,000, the equipment is tht· first step in the development of a computer-aided t·ngintTring laboratory in which students will have the capabilities to automatically design electronic circuits. -1be Obsen'£'1" 

_Weather 
Cloudy todaywith a high in the mid to upper .20s. A 50 percent chance oflight snow tonight and tomorrow with a low in the mid­teens and a high in the mid .20s. -AP 

The Observer 
'!be Observer (liSPS W9 2-4000) is puhlishnl Monday throul:h Friday ant! on home foothall ~aturtlays, exn-pt llurinl( exam and vacation period~. The 
Observer b puhlisht·t.l by the studenL' of tht· llniVcrsity of Notr~ Dame and Saint M:try's Collco!(e. Subscriptions may be pu rcha.o;c.·d for HO pt·r ~·ear ( HO per se­mester) by writing lbe Observer, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. lntllana 46SS6. 
'!be Observer Is a member of The A.•soclated Press. All reproduction riWJt.' are rescorvetl. 
Today's i.."iSUt" wa~ produccll hy: 
ProductitJn Consulttltll .................... Steve 
Deslgtzl!dllor .............................. Ann~ Long /Jeslg11 Assistant .................. Ant.li Schnuc·k l.ayoutStaff.......................... Scott ant! Ann 7)•pesetters ............... Mary Ellm ant! Tracy 
Neu's Etlitor ......................... Kdth Harrison 
Copy Editors .... Mary Heilmann and john Beasly .\ports Copy Edltor .................. l.arry Burke Viewpoi11t Copy Editor......... Cindy Boyle 
Vieupoi1ll J.uyout ................ Chrb Bowler NIJ Day Editor ........................ Alice Groner Typist ........................................ Kim Tychscn Pbotrlgrapbt-r..................Johannes Hacker 
Thursday, January I 7, 1984 -page 2 



The grass is always greener on the other side of break 


"So, how was your break?" 
"Just fine, how was yours?" you reply. 
Wait. Turn off the automatic pilot and think for a mo­ment. How was your vacation, really? 
You couldn't wait to get home. You'd taken five too many finals and had to blow off Rudolph to finish that philo paper. Visions of sugarplums, New Year's parties and home-cooked meals were dancing through your head. And the minute -no, the second -your last blue book was filled you fled campus without so much as a parting bow toward the Dome. 
At first it was great being home. Your family was relatively happy to see you, and you were overjoyed to be in your own room, in your own bed, with hours of uninterrupted sleep ahead ofyou. 
But soon the novelty offreedom disappears, and you are caught up in Christmas cookies, Christmas cleaning and, ofcourse, Christmas shopping. Unless you are one ofthe fortunate few with the foresight (and the money) to pick up some Notre Dame sportswear for your friends 

Amy Stephan 
Project Manager 
):'ou wake up. You watch 'IV. You maybe check out an after-Christmas sale or w~rk out at the YMCA. You come home. You watch 'IV. 
Your mother begins to question your divine right to sleep past noon every day. Your father begins to ques­tion your seeming lack of ambition. You begin toques­tion the intrinsic value of"Whecl of Fortune." 
Then, one day while you are busy relaxing, a strange thought comes to mind. Isn't it about time to go back to school? And for an instant, if only an instant, you look forward to your return to campus. What once seemed 
and family, one of your first like an endless vacation is vacation thrills is probably a drawing to a dose. trip to the local mall for an And so you return to invigorating afternoon of Notre Dame. South Bend combat shopping. greets you with a blistering 
Stretching a S.20 snowstorm. You find that Christmas budget over you arc only scheduled for Mom, Dad, two brothers and five credits and spend two a 14-year-old sister is no days standing in ridiculous easy task, and hoardes of lines to add and drop classes. half-crazed shoppers and 'Jlle dining hall lets you frost five hours of elevator-style your own cupcake to com­Christmas tunes hardly plement your roast beef au make the trip more pleasant. jus. After grabbing the last fin­In your first class, the pro­gerless neon glove for your fessor warns that "this is not 
sister and a Hickory Farms sampler for Dad, you return home, full ofholiday cheer. 
But Christmas is never quite the same once you dis­cover that anyone with a red suit and a well-placed pil­low can play Santa Claus. When you were younger, Aunt Mildred's three-hour monologue on her son's impend­ing marriage and Uncle Bob's critique of Reaganomics wouldn't have been quite so annoying. 

After the presents are all unwrapped, you have plenty offree days and nights before you. So why not look up a few high school buddies and re-live old times? Great idea, but it seems as though Notre Dame's Christmas break is strategically scheduled to coincide with not more than five other American universities. just when you are ready to begin the post-holiday phase of your vacation, your friends are heading back to school. And you're left with a good week in which to catch up on your soaps and re-acquaint yourselfwith the family pet. 
If you aren't lucky enough to have an exciting job at McDonald's to keep you occupied, you're faced with hundreds of hours of unstructured time. 
an easy course." Your next class features a teacher with an accent somewhere be­
tween India and Alabama who announces that the lab has been moved to Friday afternoon. After one day of school, you have 300 pages to read, 5.200 of books to buy, and 70 days to go. 
"So, how was your break?" "Fantastic." 
The Observer publishes its official opinion in the form of an unsigned, large·print, wide­column article on the Viewpoint page. lbese columns represent the opinion of a majority of The Observer editorial hoard. All other columns, on the Viewpoint page or other­wise, are the views ofthcir authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial hoard or The Observer staff. 
Irs happening here! Right next to Ft. Lauderdale with six miles of white sandy beach, a boardwalk, 
lower hotel rates and great 
places to eat and party. 
Plus, we're the home of Six 
Flags Atlantis, World's 
largest Water Theme Park! 
Send today for your free color poster of"The Rivals" 
and also a free copy of 
our hotel guide. Why not 
spend Spring Break In Hollywood for a change... Irs where rivals revel! 
Fill outthe coupon below 
and mall to: 
r~-;:r-;;..;-od~;:~;-1
I of Commerce, P.O Box 23451Hollywood, Florida 33022  I1  
I Name  1  
I School Name  I  
I Addres II City  I II  
I stale/Zip  1  

L---------~ 

r 

The Observer Thursday, January 17, 1984 -page 3 
ND Air Force ROTC cadet nanted recipient of award for achievemlent 
Special to The Observer 
Denise C. Huppert, a senior in the University's five-year Arts & Let­ters/Electrical Engineering pro­gram, has been selected by the Legion of Valor as a recipient of its Bronze Cross for Achievement. The award, sponsored by the nation's senior organization for veterans, is presented to five Air Force ROTC cadets each year. 
Huppert, who transferred to the University from The College ofSaint Thomas last fall, was selected for the award based on her excellence in academic, military and civic affairs. She holds a 3.72 grade point average while maintaining active member­ship in the Arnold Air Society, Soci­ety for Future Engineers, Aquinas Scholars, Liturgical Choir, and the 
national honor society of Delta Ep­
silon Sigma. She also participated in 
intramural soccer and volleyball. 



rnR~EmC~EI~V~Er}RES~,A~M~P=S~1~~rU~N~E~R~S~;~~!:e;:~it 
ByJANE KRAVCIK 
CopyEdttor 
The Observer made a $18,000 turn-around last year, according to the audit of the newspaper con­ducted last summer. 
Last year's audit showed a $11,000 profit. The previous year's audit had shown a $7,000 deficit. 
Bob Vonderheide, The Observer editor-in-chief, attributed the turn­around to "a new attitude." Also im­portant to the turn-around were the changes implemented by former Observer Controller Alex Szilvas and the addition ofthe newspaper to the University Budget System, Vonder­heide said. 
Present Business Manager Dave Taiclet attributed the turn-around to Szilvas. "He made the business de­partment more efficient," Taiclet said. 
According to Vonderheide, Szilvas reorganized the staff to in­clude an accounts payable, an ac­counts received and a payroll clerk. 
Taiclet said the addition of the newspaper to the budgetsystem was "definately an asset from a business point ofview." 
He said, "The budget system makes us more organized. It is tough for students like ourselves to have a total picture to operate a $275,000 business." 
Vonderheide is more cautious about the new budget system. "It is not the greatest thing in the world," he said. He added, however. "I'm pleased with how the University has treated us as a whole." 
The Observer has been able to maintain its editorial independence under the new system, Vonderheide said. "The reason there has been no hint ofinterference is that we made such a big deal about it last year," he said. 
Both Taiclet and Vonderheide foe­see a budget profit again this year. 
The business standing of the newspaper has a definite effect on its appearance, according to Vonder­heide. "The Observer is a business. Any business likes to know it's oper­ating in the black. You can then do more things editorially and use energies in other directions." 
Neither Director oflnternal Audit for the University Louis Cohen nor his assistant could be reached for comment on the audit. 
Thanks to you... • 
it works ... 
tor All OF US u...~-.. 

: ~~~~~HER SAVE $300.00
pstere·o R~~~w.i
5000 ABOlJT THE HK590i! 
Those wise and revered sound experts at Stereo Review tested our superlative hk590i receiver and found that it did, indeed, measure up to all Jjraises we've been singing about it. 1/!/e'd like to share some special quotes with you, in case you missed the January issue: 
... When we used the 20-millisend tone-burst test signal of the dynamic power test, .the maximum output was 71, 112, and 170 Watts into loads of 8, 4, and 2 Ohms, respectively. The dynamic headroom of the amplifier was, therefore, just under 2 dB. Encouraged by this unusally good L~havior, we tried paralleling a 4 Ohm resistance with the 2 Ohm load, giving it a net load of only 1 .3 Ohms, and found that the tone burst output clipped at 273 Watts per channel-not bad lor a "45 Watt" receiver! At no time during our tests did the hk590i shut down by its internal protective system, and showed no ill effects from this extreme 

IN STORE SERVICE 

DEPARTMENT WE HAVE THE EXCLUSIVE ON QUALITY ELECTRONICS EASY FINANCING 
ALLTRONICS 
UNIVERSITY CENTER ON GRAPE ROAD, MISHAWAKA 
(NEXT TO SERVICE MERCHANDISE, BEHIND JERErv11AH SWEENEY'S) MON.-FRI. 11-9, SAT. 10-9, SUN. 12-5 
SALE ENDS JAN. 20, 198S 

American Revolution, the Knights of Columbus and the Reserve Officers Association. 
In addition, she has won several Air Force awards, including the Su­perior Performance ribbon, the Dis­tinctive General Military Course ( GMC) ribbon, three academic honors ribbons and the Arnold Air Society Billy Mitchell award. She was also the winner of a vice­commandant's award for her perfor­mance at field training. The Saint Thomas detachment once desig­nated Hubbert the Professional Offi· cer Corps cadet of the month and twice the GMC cadet of the month. 
Huppert was presented the Le­
gion ofMerit award Dec. 7, at the Air Apart from being the recipient ofa 
Force ROTC detachment's annual four-year Air Force scholarship, 
dining-in. The prese11tation was Huppert also has received achieve­
made by Monsignor Francis L. ment awards from the American Le· 
Sampson, retired Army Chief of gion, the Daughters ofFounders and 
Chaplains, now assistant to the Uni­Patriots of America, the Sons of the 
versity president for ROTC affairs. 
359 RS i Computerized AM/FM receiver 
•45 
watts per/ch. •Synthesized tuning with 14 pre­sets • LED power meters • 2 tape monitors with copy 

• 
5 band graphic equalizer with tone defeat.Reg. $399.95 


40 watts can add power amp power. Digital receiver. Reg. $350.00. 
PARASOUND 

QR-25 
,.«pr---------------------------------g ¥ • 

treatment, a "torture test" that few other amplifiers in our experience would have been able to survive, let alone perform properly under. 
· ... The hk590i is a superb example of a product designed to cope with the worst-case signal and load conditions one might encounter in a home music system. I can think of no other amplifier, past or present, that is capable of delivering a dynamic output of six times its rated 8 Ohm power to a load of less tt"!an 2 Ohms. Apparently this has been achieved without sacrificing reliability or any other perlormance qualities. The other amplifier parameters of the 
25 watts per/ch. You can add power amp to increase power Digital receiver. 
16995 
PR200 

hk590i, including distortion, noise, and stability are also excellent ... ...The hk590i is a smooth, silent performer, free of unexpected noises under any conditions of operation. We could not help wondering what a more powerful, scaled-up version of the 590i would be like-perhaps a kilowatt of dynamic power into 1 or 2 Ohms? At any rate, the hk590i is surely a step in the right direction as we enter the age of the digital disc and other extended-dynamic range-program sources. 
~~:s~~~N/KARDON499,~ 
I~EG. $575.00 

LIMITED QUANTITY
SALE PRICE 

Harman/Kardon has set a new standard, state of the art performance at an affordable price. Visit All-tronics 
•:o hear the difference ( 1 00 watts per/ch ) 
60 watts per channel. Clean power, two speaker hookups, protection circuit. If you want to increase the power, just
PAiMrwllsl watts oper/ch 0 0 get 1550 

lbe Observer/johannes Hacker


Pick a Poster 
Freshman Colin Lipnicky takes a breakyesterdayfrom his schedule toperuse the offerings ofthe Po-Plake productionspostersale held yesterday in the Nazz. The display also includedfilm memorbilia such as movie scripts. The sale is being sponsored by the Notre DameStudentActivitiesBoard. 
: 
' 
The Observer Thursday,January 17, 1984-page 4 

Security at Reagan's inauguration readies for possible terrorist action 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Security at Presi­dent Reagan's mock inauguration on Monday will be the tightest ever, in­cluding precautions against terrorist attack from the air or the ground. 
All 140,000 people expected to attend Tuesday's noon swearing-in ceremony at the West Front of the Capitol will be required to pass through metal detectors, even though that is an invitation-only crowd. 
Tht· same applies to the 60,000 holders of S121 ~kets for the in­augural halls, presuming Reagan drops hy all eight of the black-tie parties for adults a..o; well a..o; one for young people. 
Another first, as revealed last week by The Los Angeles Times, is that security officials have drawn up plans to protect the Capitol cere­mony from air attack, probably with a sentry armed with the shoulder­fired Stinger missile. 
The Secret Service would not publicly discuss any specific secur­ity steps. But neither did it deny that the air defense system at the White House, long reported to he equipped with the Stinger, would be extended temporarily to protect the Capitol. 
"I think you can presume that will be the case," said one high-ranking Pentagon official, who spoke only on condition he not be identified. "But it's strictly a Secret Service opera­tion." 
The Secret Service and Washing­ton's various police departments, including the 1,200-man force at the Capitol itself, have been planning for months for the inaugural events. So, too, has the military, whose 8,300­person contingent is largely ceremonial, including marching units totaling 2,000 soldiers, airmen and sailors. 
Assembled for the swearing-in ­actually a repeat of the official oath­taking on Sunday -and Reagan's in­augural address will be virtually every top U.S. official, including Vice President George Bush and mem­bers of the Cabinet, the Supreme Court and Congress, a..o; well as am­bassadors from other nations. lbey will be shielded on the Capitol plat­form by bulletproofglass. 


'Think tanks' advise administration to reduce government intervention 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON, D.C. -Represen­tatives of the nation's major think tanks told President Reagan today he should push initiatives in his second term to lessen government's influ­ence on the public, including gradually establishing a private al­ternative to Social Security and en­ding taxes on corporations. 
"Ibomas Bell Jr., chairman of the Hudson Institute, which organized the effort, said the group wa..o; trying to "help Reagan in the second term on those areas where we think this particular president's involvement in the process will have the greatest impact." 
Bell empha..<;ized that the 13 mem­bers of the "Committee on the Next Agenda'' were acting as individuals and not representing their respective organizations, which range from liberal to conservative. After a news conference, they gath-

Rhodes 
continuedfrom page 1 

Each state then picked two stu­dents to send to regional interviews. Vonderheide traveled to Chicago for the Great Lakes District, which con­sists of six states. Interviews lasted 20 minutes and were academic in nature. Candidates discussed issues pertinent to their field of interest, and answered specific questions. 
Vonderheide, who has never been 
to Europe, will sail for England with 
the 31 other U.S. Scholars and the 
eight Canadian Rhodes Scholars. His 
sholarship pays for all tuition, room, 
board, and provides a stipend for 
travel. 

Criteria for the award include 
"academic achievement, leadership 
qualities, moral integrity, and ath­
letic ability." However, Vonder­
heide emphasized, the scholarship 
"is not preserved for only varsity 
athletes." 

Vonderheide said reaction to the award was "amazing." He received l 0-15 letters a day, many from Notre Dame administrators and Kentucky state officials, made appearances on local television shows, and spoke before the Kentucky House of Rep­resentatives and the Kentucky Board of Education among others. 
"What can I say -I think it's tre­
mendous for him personally and for 
the University," said Vice President 
for Student Affairs Father David 
Tyson. "It's a great credit to him." 

""Ibe general reaction reflects well on many people," said Vonder­heide. "It (the award) Is big enough for a lot to share in it-my parents, my high school, my teachers, my state and my university." 
ered at the White House to present Reagan with a copy ofthe report and discuss it with administration offi­cials. 
The group calls for the Reagan ad­ministration "to further reduce the social and economic burdens that have been imposed by the expan­sion of government power, and to promote the growth and efficiency ofprivate institutions." 
'Ibe group also calls for the United States to reassume "the mantle of world leadership" and endorses the president's Strategic Defense Initia­tive for a space-based system that would knock out incoming nuclear missiles. 

"Ibe report called for reforms of the tax structure, government spending, the legal system, the edu­cational system, the health-care sys­tem and the welfare system. 
On the subject of Social Security, the study suggests finding a private­sector alternative to the govern­
ment program, which the study says 
has become difficult to alford and 
can't respond to such changes in so­
ciety as longer lifespans and illegal 
immigration. 
The report also said reforming the 
tax structure should take 
precedence over trimming the 
federal budget deficit. It called for 
gradually eliminating corporate 
taxes, "recognizing that corpora­
tions do not pay taxes but act only as 
a conduit for collecting taxes from 
the providers ofthe labor and capital 
... which corporations employ." 
The group said only individuals should be taxed, but that the income base should be broadened while tax rates are made "flatter." 
Other recommendations in­cluded in the study are deregulating the legal system, promoting adop­tion of babies by giving tax deduc­tions to parents who adopt, and encouraging the private sector to take over as many federal programs as possible. 


$1.00 OFF 

I FREE I
NACHOS 

I BEAN BURRITO I 
I with purchase of ~ 
1


BELLGRANDE'" 
lbstada and
and 

I I medium soft drink I1 
medium soft drink 
$1.00 off regular price 
I 
PltA.st PRt-.st.Nl THIS n:H.JPUN WHtN oRutRIN<, 

I I
vu-,.,,.. Ptu_,t-·Nr THI\ uHIPoN wHtN oRIH-:JUN<· 
liMIT ONf. C:OUPUN PUt PI-"R~ON Pf-'A VISil 
liMil tiNt· C:OliPON PFR PfRSON Pf-.R VISil 
N<Tf G<X>O WITH ANY OTHFR Of-HR ( A\H 
~CH c;oon WITH ANY <nHFR Of-l·l-:R CASH 
REDEMPTI<JN VA.lUF IS L20TH CFN'T CI<I«U><INL\' 
Mti>FMP'TlllN VA.Lllf-1\' 1l1TH n.NT tiCK)J}CINL' 





AT iifBEbbNT\ 

:"pliii"ilbbNT\ : 
~~!JN'< 

I ~~!JN'< I 
L~~~S~NUARY2~~1~~~~~~~~J 

necessary. Apply Now! 
OVERSEAS EMPLOYMENT 
WORLD-SIDE OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEN AND WOMEN! JAPAN -EUROPE -AFRICA · AUSTRALIA · THE SOUTH PACIFIC· SOUTH AMERICA-THE FAR EAST. EXCELLENT BENEFITS. HIGHER SALARIES AND WAGES! FREE TRANSPORTATION! GENEROUS VACATIONS! 
More than 300,000 Americans -not including members of the armed services -are now living overseas. These people are engaged in nearly everypossible activi­ty...construction, engineer­ing, sales, transportation, secretarial work, accoun­ting, manufacturing, oil refining, teaching, nursing, government, etc.-etc. And many are earning $2,000 to $5,000 per month...or more! 
To allow you the op­portunity to apply for overseas employment, we have researched and compil­ed a new and exciting direc­tory on overseas employ­ment. Here is just a sample of what our International Employment Directory covers. 
(1). Our International Employment Directory lists dozens of cruise ship com­panies, both on the east and west coast. You will be told what type of positions the cruise ship companies hire, such as deck hands, restaurant help, cooks, bartenders, just to name a few. You will also receive several Employment Ap­plication Forms that you may send directly to the companies you would like to work for. 
(2). Firms and organiza­tions employing all types of personnel in Australia, Japan, Africa, The South Pacific, The Far East, South America...nearly every part of the free world! 
(3). Companies and Government agencies employing personnel in near­ly every occupation, from the unskilled laborer to the college trained professional man or woman. 
(4). Firms and organiza­tions engaged in foreign con­struction projects, manufac­turing, mining, oil refining, engineering, sales, services, teaching, etc., etc. 
(5). How and where to ap­ply for overseas Government jobs. 
(6). Information about summer jobs. 
(7). You will receive our Employment Opportunity Digest...jam-packed with in­formation about current job opportunities. Special sec­tions features news of overseas construction pro­jects, executive positions and teaching opportunities. 
90Day Money
Back Guarantee 
Our International Employ· ment Directory is sent to you with this guarantee. If for any reason you do not obtain overseas employment or you are not satisfied with the job offers...simply return our Directory within 90 days and we'll refund your money pro­mptly...no questions asked. 

ORDER FORM International Employment Directory 131 Elma Dr. Dept. T21 Centralia, WA 98531 
Please send me a copy of your International Employment Directory. I understand that I may use this information for 90 days and if I am not satisfied with the results, I may return your Directory for an immediate refund. On that basis I'm enclosing $20.00 cash.... check.... or money order.... for your Directory. 
NAME______--;--....,....,..-­
please print 
ADDRESS______ APT#_________________ 
CITY____ STATE________ZIP International Employment Directory 1984 
-~~---------~--~ 
The Observer Thursday,)anuary 17, 1984-page 5 

Telescope ofthe future 
This NASA artist's conception depicts the Hubble Space Telescope after being 
Astronomers witness development of galaxy 
Associated Press 
TUCSON, Ariz. -Astronomers saw for the first time the birth ofa galaxy with the discovery of a vast hydro­gen cloud collapsing into a clump of countless stars, a researcher says. 
Most galaxies in the universe formed about 12 billion years ago, said William Keel of Kitt Peak Na­tional Observatory near Tucson. The newly discovered object is a rare late-blooming galaxy, he said. 
"There have been clues over the last few years that not all galaxies formed at the same time," he said. He presented his results yesterday at a meeting of the American Astronomical Society in Tucson. 
"What we see here is very much like what should have gone on early in the history of all galaxies," Keel said. 
That should help researchers solve many mysteries about galaxy formation, such as how spiral galaxies acquire their spin and their long, graceful arms, Keel said. 
The galaxy is not the first late­blooming galaxy to be discovered. But Keel said he believes it is the first in which it is possible to see fila­ments ofgasses and stars falling into the galaxy's center. 
The filaments are as much as 90,000 light-years long, and the galaxy is producing the equivalent of 35 suns every year, Keel said. A light-year, the distance light travels in one year, is about six trillion miles. 
Most of the galaxy's stars are less than 100 million years old, he said. 
The galaxy had been observed before, but until Keel looked at it, re­searchers had believed the filaments were matter being expelled out­ward. Upon more careful observa­tion, Keel found that the jets were actually falling inward. 






CASSETTE 

•Feather-touch 
control for ease of operation 

• 
Automatic tape selector provides correct settings for various tape types 


SONY. 
TFX-aS 1699~EG. $239.95 
DOLBY C CASSETTE DECK 
• 
Dolby B and C noise reduction dramatically reduces tape hiss 

• 
Auto tape selecior automatically selects for bias. 


play/record with Dolby •API/hard permalloy head 
•New square format LED metering •Frequency m­sponse 30-16,000 Hz •Wow & Flutter 0.055 WTD­RMS •SiN 63 dB (Dolby B) 
TOSHIBA 
18995
AUTO REVERSE REG. $?39.95 
• Auto reverse record/play back • Dolby B&C • Fmnt loading metal tape stereo cassette deck • quick re­verse •Metal tape play/record •Super AP head" 2 motor and IC logic feather touch controls • Frequen­cy response 20-17,000 Hz •Wow & Flutter 0.04 5 WTD RMS •SIN 75 dB (Dolby C) 

~ 
THE HI·Fl PROFESSIONALS 

659~~a'""u~to"r..e.,vel!!rll"s~e~~~!t with Dolby C 
•Dolby Band C •Auto-reverse mechanism •2-color LED meters •Forward & reverse play modes •soft touch controls • Cue/review • record mute • 3 tape selections • LED function indicators • Cassette back lighting. 

~~!~soo~Ji: I I. tJ harman/ kardon 
The world's cheapest cassette deck to 
20kHz frequency response on any tape formulation 


Freq. response: 20-21 kHz; Wow/Flutter: 0.08; Sig/ 
noise: 73 dB; Dolby B & C Hx Pro. Indeed it is the 
world's cheapest recorder to obtain 20-20kHz at 0 dB 
LEVEL. Make a recording on this deck, and you will 
find this deck miles ahead of its competition. 
_ 51NCE•947 

199
95 ' .. ~ 
REG.$250.00 ;~g; _t/ ~ ~~ SCOTT -· -­639 DC metal compatible cassette deck with Dolby G 
•Dolby B & C •2-color LED meters •Soft touch controls •Cue/Review •Record mute •3 Tape selec­tions • LED function indicators • Cassette back lighting 

You cannot buy a better cassette deck than Harman/ even at twice the price. 
The world's cheapest cassette deck to obtain 20-21 kHz freq. response on any tape formulation with 
Freq. response: 20-22kHz •Wow/flutter: 0.04 peak 
•Sig/Noise: 74 dB •Dolby B & C Hx Pro •Please don't compare these specifications with any other tape deck. Because you cannot find one. Above all. this freq. response can be obtained on cheaper low noise tape by this deck. 



DECKS 

Twice Its Price" 
The cover shot and caption say it all. The 
current issue of Audio simply sings the praises 
of our top-of-the-line deck. Now, you certainly 
should have a copy of your very own. but just in 
case someone's hoarding yours. here's a few 
quotes that are sure to whet your appetite for 
the whole piece: 
... The responses are extended at both ends of 
the band under all conditions, certainly 
improved at the high end by HX Pro. The 
responses are outstanding, both for their 
flatness from below 20 Hz to 1 0 to 20 kHz and 
for their excellent Dolby NR tracking. This latter 
result proves the success of the Harman 
Kardon deck's two-tone calibration. 
... Third-harmonic· distortion (HDL3) was 
measured from 1 0 dB below Dolby level to the 
limit of 3% distortion lor the three tapes with 
Dolby C NR. The results are uniformly excellent 
and quite superior to those from the great 
majority of decliksiii·-=-..,­
... The .netering was excellent in use. certainly one of the best for dynamic responses, and was further improved with the weighting switched in. It was possible to set maximum levels very quickly and with more assurance than when metering without the weighting. The peak-hold feature was a further aid to getting the maximum out of the tapes. A check of record, pause and stop clicks showed that they were very low, just a bit out of tape noise with Dolby C NR. There was no evidence of any Dolby mistracking at any level with any of the tapes, showing what ~n be dorie with good deck setup and excell(\nt responses to start with. ... 1 enjoyed much pleasurable listening. ... For its sizable price, the deck provides superb frequency responses, a convenient and accurate calibration scheme to match most tapes, excellent Dolby NR tracking, very low noise and distortion with all three tape types, very low flutter, good mike/line mixing, and excellent metering. Where the final tape is the criterion, the CD491 is worthy of comparison to other decks at up to twice its price. Ain't that the truth' 
harman/kardon
If you can find any other tape deck even at twice the price, better than Harman/Kardon CD-491, All-Ironies will give $100.00 Gilt certificate abso­lutely free! Reg. $850.00 

·Jamaicans 
1

protest gas , price hike i 
Associated Press 
l 
KINGSTON, Jamaica -Jamaicans protesting an increase in fuel prices 
,
set up roadblocks and shut down most of this Caribbean capital yes­terday. Leftist opponents of the gov­ernment of Prime Minster Edward 
l 
Seaga called for him to resign and 
hold new elections. 
The Jamaica Defense Force, 
police, and members of Seaga's 
Labor Party worked through the 
night to clear Kingston's main ar­
teries of debris, burning tires and 
auto parts, but protesters following 
behind restored the barriers, police 
said. 
Police confirmed three fatal 
shootings and said six people were 
hospitalized in the disturbances 
sparked by the announcement Mon­
day of a 20 percent hike in fuel 
prices. The increase is the latest in a 
three-year series of austerity 
measures instituted by Seaga's gov­
ernment. 
A Kingston newspaper, The Daily 
Gleaner ofjamaica, said yesterday 
there were reports of three more 
deaths Tuesday. 
Police said two liquor stores and a 
department store were looted over­
night in Kingston, and one ofthe liq­
uor stores was burned to the 
,' ~ 
ground. A sugar cane field outside 
Kingston was also set afire, police 
1
said. "What is not happening is that 1
,
there are no riots anywhere in 
,
Jamaica," Seaga told reporters. "There are demonstrations in ,
1 
Kingston, peaceful assemblies in 
,~ 
most cases," he saki. 
A tiny Communist party said it , was participating in the roadblocks, , which Seaga blamed on "a coalition of opposition political groups." Seaga said the nation's security 
forces were out in full force, but had orders not to confront protesters unless they were damaging prop­erty. 
He charged the protesters with trying "to undo the economic gains made under this country's structural adjustment program. While their in­tentions may have been to reduce the inflow of tourists, this has not succeeded." 
Winter is peak tourist time in Jamaica, but authorities said none of the estimated 12,000 visitors was re­ported injured. Police said yesterday a few roadblocks remained in the 
resort city of Montego Bay, but that there were no signs of protesters at other resorts such as Ocho Rios and Port Antonio. 
WE HAVE THE EXCLUSIVE ON QUALITY ELECTRONICS EASY FINANCING 
UNIVERSITY CENTER ON GRAPE ROAD, MISHAWAKA 
(NEXT TO SERVICE MERCHANDISE, BEHIND JEREMIAH SWEENEY'S) MON.-FRI. 11-9, SAT.10-9, SUN.1:2-5 SALE ENDS JAN. 20, 198S 

The Observer 
·lbe Observer/johannes Hacker 
Outside cider during lunch. Ski films were featured in the North 
These students don't seem to mind the cold as they Dining Hall and bot chocolate and hot apple cider 
enjoy yesterday's ski fest held on the South Quad were offered at both. 

Soviets admit desertion 
Thursday, january 17, 1984-page 6 



•

• 'I Wish I Were In Florida'
•

• party•••tonight!!
•
•

• $1 drinks for anyone 
• 

with a swim suit 
•
• 

: Open at 8:00p.m. 259-7233 
• 
•

'-L,_h.-....c>-.c>"-' • 
Assoclated Press 
MOSCOW · For the first time since the Soviet Army invaded Af. ghanistan, the Kremlin acknowl· edged yesterday that one of its• soldiers had deserted, but it said he chose to return to his homeland after finding only "sleazy propaganda and dubious love" in the West. 
The official Soviet news agency Tass also accused the United States of offering Afghan rebels a bounty for a new quarry · live Soviet soldiers · which could be tortured and brain· washed into becoming traitors. 
Official Soviet news media routinely portray missing military personnel in Afghanistan as having been captured by anti-Marxist rebels, then coerced or tricked into making anti-Soviet proclamations. The case of Nikolai Ryzkkov, Tass said, was "exceptional." 
In an account Tass carried on its Russian-language service yesterday, Soviets were told of the 20-year-old deserter from a military construe· 
tion unit. Tass said he was drugged, nearly starved and visited by lovers of both sexes with CIA links in an at· tempt to get him to make anti-Soviet statements. 
Tass also charged that a second · Soviet defector, who went to Af­ghanistan as a soldier during the 1979 invasion, wants to return from his present home in the United States, but that the State Department is delaying his departure. Deputy State Department spokesman Alan Romberg said in Washington that if Alexander Voronov "wants to go back, that's his free choice." 

~···························· 
~ The SAB special events and campus entertainment 
~ 
lt 
* 
* 
* 
r 
r * 
*~ ~ 
* * 
~* * 
committee proudly presents... 
Don Nouvello 
FR. GUIDO as SARDUCCI * 
live in Washington Hall 
* 

Saturday, JanuarY. 19, 1985 Show times: 7:00 and 9:00pm Tickets: $5.00 in advance, $6.00 at the door ~ AVAILABLE AT THE RECORD STORE ie 
\************************************************~ 

Tomorrow night Stepan Center rocks ... 


DANCE PARTY 
with 

THE SUBURBS 
Begins at 8:00pm, Friday night Tickets: $4.50 in advance, $5.00 at the door 
Available at the Record Store 
..... presented by the Student Activities Board 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 

--------------~--------~--------~ -­
The Observer Thursday, january 17, 1984 -page 7 



PARASOUND TTb-700 
SEMI-AUTOMATIC BELT DRIVE 
Wow and flutter less than 0.05% Speed accuracy: 0.04%, Rumble ARLL -64 dB. No feed back unlike any other turntable. Was $119.95 
CS-515 AUTO SHUT­OFF 

Less friction, feed back tight geometry. Low mass tone arm with gimble suspension. Compare this value with other turntables up to $250.00 
NOWONLY 12995 
FULLY AUTOMATIC VERSION ONLY 
If you do not care for unnecessary gimmicks this turntable will meet professional standards. Ultra heavy base, platter, ultra low-mass tone arm Swiss design, made in Germany. Five year parts and labor warranty. 
NOW

ONLY 19995 
--~-­

·------------------------------~-------~--------------------------------.--------.~~ 
The Observer Thursday, january 17, 1984-page 8 
AtTENTION STUDENTS! 
Family Portrait 

A baby langur poses for a family photo with the are nocturnal monkeys, and they are natives of other langurs that live at the Minnesota Zoo. SoutheastAsia. The baby langurpictured is three days old. Langurs 
Woman wins 'plane crash' lawsuit 
You demonstrated the ability and desire to attend one ofthe nation's leading Universities, shouldn't you be reading the nation's leading newspaper? Shouldn't you read 
THE NEW YORK TIMES? 
Contact George for campus delivery at 35¢ a day. 145 Stanford Hall 283-2094 
Associated Press 
ST. PAUL, Minn. · A federal jury Tuesday awarded nearly $10,000 to an elderly woman who said she thought she "was going to die" when a passenger telling jokes over the public address system on a charter flight announced the plane was going to make a belly-landing. 
The six-member U.S. District Court jury awarded Adeline Miller, 74, of Rochester, Minn., $I 0,000 in compensatory damages plus 5226 in medical expenses. 
However, the six jurors found Mil­ler was one percent negligent in the incident, so her award will be reduced by that amount. Air Califor­nia was found 80 percent negligent and the passenger, Larry White, 35, of Waukon, Iowa, was found 19 per­cent negligent. 
According to testimony, White had been acting as an informal "toastmaster" in the back of the plane on the flight from Las Vegas, Nev., to Rochester, leading songs and telling jokes over the public ad­dress system. 
A stewardess allowed him to use the PA system in the front of the plane, and he told jokes to the pas­sengers. He said he had been asked to announce that the landing gear had frozen and the plane would have to make a belly-landing in the snow at Rochester. 
CHICAGO TRIB DORM DELIVERY 
$22.00 7 days/ week all semester 
(St. Mary's included) 
call Jim at 283-2299 
Miller had asked for more than $250,000 in damages, saying she had developed a fear offlying and loss o; appetite and had seen a psychologist since theJan. 29, 1983 flight. 
"My client and I both feel the same and that is terrific. We're very happy. It's much more than any settlement offer that was ever made," said Miller's attorney, Jonat­han Gallop. 
The attorney for Air California, Donald Chance Mark, said he was pleased that the jury found no punitive damages. 
The airline will file several post­trial motions, including one asking the judge to throw out the award, Mark said. 
THE EARLY _,ll?51f1BIRD... .~i:-­ 
Jan. 19 andPREPARE FOR: Classes starting Jan.20  
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-4135  

AUDITIONS AUDITIONS AUDITIONS AUDITIONS ELECTRA by Sophocles 7:00P.M. Monday, January 21, O'Laughlin, St. Mary's College Tuesday, January 22, Washington Hall, Notre Dame Audition information and materials available in COTH Department offices: The Loft, o'Shaughnessy (ND) and 110 Moreau Hall (SMC) 
N~"')1R.E ~f\tvt\;;:: 
Auditions open to all SNNT MAR."/5 
Notre dame/St. Mary's Students 

IHEAT~ 
In a continuing effort to bring you the music andfun you want ... L.S. Holmes, 
M.E.C. productions, and the Special Events commission present ... 

to 12 midnight 

Ticlceta: $4.50 pre-party $5.00at the door 

·----------------------------------"':'""-....,...-------­
The Observer Thursday,January 17, 1984 -page 9 


Racial polarization growing s~tys National Urban League 
,
,
,
, 
• 
, ~ 
1
,
,
,
,
.,
,
,
, 
, ~ 
, 
1 
1 
1 
.., 
1
, 
,~ 
1
., 
,1 ,
"' 
,
, 
Associated Press recovery, but that there is also cause critical of the Reagan administra­pointed to evidence ofincreased so­for black America to be more opti­tion, president John Jacob said the cial concern and efforts by blacks WASHINGTON-The National Ur­mistic. status ofblacks remains "grim." themselves to deal with economic 
ban League said yesterday that racial Releasing the league's annual and social problems. 
polarization is increasing as blacks report on blacks in this country, Yet he said, "I want to stress the 
are left out of the economic which as in past years was sharply positive side of the picture," and "The strongest message coming out of Black America in 1984 was that it became increasingly aware of its own strengths and increasingly willing to act independently to achieve what it considers its own best interests," Jacob said in an over­view of the report, "The State of BlackAmerica, 1985." 
"This does not signal any lessen­ing of the responsibility of govern­ment or the private sect0r ... ," he 

W-SERIES 
A ranqe ol INe sty1LSh hiQh etfiC~o ency loudspeaker systems offenng Computer Bass Qpltmtsahon. htgh ~wer handling and w1de dynamtCS 
Models W30. W40, and W50 all have env~ronmenlal controls to al­low compensation for ad11erse room condtltons Model lf:/20 uses a 7 Aulolltary Bass Radtalor lor ex· tended bass performance 


TheAR28B 
SYSTEM TYPE Booksnen or lloor ~totana.ng acoustiC sus pensiOf'l 2 wya system w11f\ dfiY8 umts 111 8Yert1cararray DRIVE UNITS 200 mm 18 I lOng tnrow acou•hc suspen -SIOf'lwOOier ..!2 mm 11 '• 1bQu~v cooled cone h!Qh range dfl~er VOl TAOE SENSITIVITY 2 SJ Yoi!S prOduces aa dB SPLat 1meter 
POWER HAHQlll'oQ 4BILITY M;t) 1)8 used wolfl nclllot!f5al uo to 100 

99!~
waii5(WIICI'Ianne 
SYSTEM FREQUENCY RESPONSE 

REG. $165.00
3 dB ll'laff oower1 pants at !l2 Hz and at 
2'2 OOOHz 
SYSTEM lOW FREQUENCY PERFORMANCE J dB at ~2Hz w1th an eUechYe a at re tonanceor 1 0 

SYSTEM TYPE Bookshelf or floor stanGinfl acoushc suspenston 3· way system wrth drive un­tls tn a verltcal array for prectse stereo tmaging DRIVE UNITS 200 mm (8"") Acousbc Sus­penSIOn Wooh::r. 100 mm { 4 ") Acoust1c Suspenston Mtdrange 19mm (34'") liq­Uid cooled Dome Htgh­
range 

POWEA AEQUIREMENT VOLTAGE SENSITIVITY IQwallsDIIrcl\lnroelmllllfT\um 
.... 

2 8J valls produces 88 d8 
POWER HANDliNG AYIUT'f' M•v ~ usad Wl\h •me~<l.ers •o~l~ at up to 

SPlat 1 meter on axts 100 wans oer cl'-.ro11el S'f'5TfM FAEOUENCY RESPONSE dB tl\all powen POints ;~t52 HZ and at 
J2 OOOHI 
SYSTEM lOW PEAFOAMANCE 


149!~ 
REG. 215.00 
MONSTEROUS 
:~r~auge speaker so~ 
SAVE 50% ___ --­
EQUALIZER 

PARASOUND E01 00. 5 band-per-Channel Equal· 1zer 
41!._.-------­
.: . -. . ---­
.--.. 

ThiS IS the least expens1ve EO. wh1ch w1ll sol\~ most problems Reg $89 9!j 
NOW ............ 3 995 
FT. 
EQUALIZER 
TOSHIBA EO·E33 1 0 Band h<r/Channel 
Shaft Ligl .ted Controls LED. tape mon1tor, gain control, tape EO dubbing. Reg. $199.95. 
NOWONLY ..... 9995 
WHARFEDALE PRICE INDEX PER PAIR  
MODELS I REG PRICE I SALE  
W·SO 830 oo·pr J 530" pr.  
W·40 620 DO pr 400" pr. f LASER·SO 200PR 140.00 pr.  
LASER·90 250 00 pr 20011 pr.  
LASER·130) 400 00 pr jlOO.OO pr.  

JRHearwhatyou've beenmissing. 


ST. THOMAS UNIVERSITY 

(formerly Biscayne College) SCHOOL OF LAW MIAMI, FLORIDA 
SYSTEM TYPE 8oo~.~helf r>r floor standtng acoushc SU!-,penstor 3-way system wtth linve untls tn a VE·rttcal array lor prectse 
St. Thomas, a new law school, is accepting applica· 
stereo tma~nng 

tions for Its second class to begin In August 1985 
DRIVE UNirS 
2 

The only Catholic law school in the Southeast, St. 
• '0MM ( 1 0") Acousttc Susp~nston 
Woofer 1CO mm (4") Acousttc Sus­
Thomas is ideally located in suburban Miami on a 140 
penston Mi(frange 19mm (3!.") hqutd 
acre campus. The School offers a three·year, full· time 
EFFICIENCY 

cooled Dome Htghrange 
1 wall prOduces e7 dB SPLat 1 meter on 

program, with small classes, modern computerized 
VOLTAGE SENSITIVITY 
IllIS 
POWER REQUIREMENT 

research facilities, and the opportunity for specialized 
2 83 -'Oits produces 88 dB SPL at 1 
I 0 walls per ctlannel m1nmum 
meter on a> •s 

study in a variety of areas, including international law. 
POWER HANDLING ABILITY 
May be used wttn arr..,l1hers rated at up to 
1~0 watts ""'r channel SYSTEM FREQUENCY RESPONSE ·3 dB (hall powert p01r:ts al45 Hz and at 
32 OOOHI 
SYSTEM LOW FREQUENCY PERFORMANC ·3 d8 a1 4~ Hl wrlh an eHechYe a resonance ')1115 
EFFICIENCY t waH produces 8 7 dB SPLat t meter on ax1s. POWER REQUIREMENT 1"' watts per channel m1n1mum POWER HANDliNG ABiliTY , '-'lily tle usea w1th amphhers rated at up lo 175 walls per channel 
iYSTEM FnEC 1JENCY RESPONSE dB lf\ali POwer, pa.nls a\39 Hz and at32 000 Hz SYSTEM LOW FREQUENCY PERFORMANCE 3 dB .a\39 Hz w1tl' ar> f'"&CtiY& 0 at resonance of 5~ 


said. "But it does signal that Black America_is not standing still waiting for others to come to its rescue. It recognizes that its salvation lies within itself." 
At a news conference to release the national civil rights organiza­tion's lOth annual report, Jacob des­cribed "a new spirit of concern within the black community." He pointed to efforts by national and local black groups to deal with prob­
Although the apPEarance of tne lasers 1s stnktngly dtffurent from extstttng lems of teenage pregnancy, single­speaker tits the acoustic performance 
parent families, education, crime 
whtch has been tile subject of tnlense 
development. wtl'l parttcular attenlton and poverty. 
betng patd to dnv e untt and crossover 
destgn 

He also described as "hopeful" 
All Laser systerrs offer htgher than signs the recent pastoral letter of average senStttvtty and powen~andltng. 
Roman Catholic bishops calling for 
very smooth treble performance wtlh­
increased social justice; protests
out any suggestion of under-damptng 
against South Africa's apartheid sys­
laser loudspec: kPis con1mue the 
tem; the presidential campaign of 
Whartedale tradtl on.of craftsmanshiP 
and engtneenng at a reallsltc pnce 
the Rev. Jesse Jackson; and election 
EQUALIZER 
HARMON·KARDON·EOB 
Simple !unction LE~ overload ultra­low frequency EO. Sub-sonic filler. Reg. $260.00 
NOWONLY .• 225°0 

The St. Thomas University School of Law intends to seek ABA provisional approval as quickly as possible, which will be after the first year of teaching. FEG. $275.00 
For information write or call: Office of Admissions, St. Thomas University School of Law, Dept. 0, 16400 N.W. 32nd Ave., Miami, FL 33054. (305) 623·231 0. 

St. Thomas is an equal opportunity institution. 025 SYSTEI! TYPE 
Bookshelf or tloor standing acousbc suspem.lon 3-way system w1th dr1. uncts in a verttcal array lor cis.• 3fflt eo imag•ng 
DRIVE LNITS 300mm 1 12") Acoustic Suspens1011 Woofer 1OOmm ( 4 ") Acousttc Suspen!>ion Mtdrange 19mm ( ltQUtd cooled Dome Htghrange 
VOLTAGE SENSITIVITY 2 83 volts produces 90 dB SPlat 1 meter :::m axis 
FIEG. $350.00 
of a black congressman, Rep. William Gray, D-Pa., to head the House Budget Committee. 
"These positive signs, however, cannot obliterate the inescapable fact that racial polarization and black alienation from the majority society increased in 1984," the report said. 
Jacob said the new emphasis of the Urban League does not mean it is backing off calls for more federal programs to help blacks, and he said the Reagan administration has presided over unfair social service cutbacks and a "retrogression in the civil rights arena." 
President Reagan's "record is deplorable and includes continuing attacks against affirmative action, the unwarranted entry ofthe Justice Department into civil rights cases in an effort to turn back the clock," Jacob said in an overview chapter of the report. 
He cited the administration's ef­forts to grant tax exemptions to schools that discriminate; efforts to turn the Commission on Civil Rights into a "rubber stamp for administra­tion policy"; and "foot dragging" on extending the Voting Rights Act. 
Reagan has denied that his admin­istration has had a negative impact on blacks and the poor, and says that the economic recovery has benefit­ted people ofall races and economic levels. 
UNIVERSITY CENTER ON GRAPE ROAD, MISHAWAKA. 
(NEXT TO SERVICE MERCHANDISE, BEHIND JEREMIAH SWEENEY'S) 
MON.-FRI.11-9, SAT. 10-9, SUN.12-5 
~ 
, ~ ~ 
r 
r 
~ 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
~ 
r r r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
~ 
r 
r 
r 
t 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
The Observer 
Two potent offenses 
Dolphs, 49ers sizing each other up 
Associated Press  tsburgh  Steelers.  San  Francisco's  Marino and his  Marks, Duper and  
only casualty is backup tight end  Clayton.  
SAN  FRANCISCO  Defensive john Frank. who dislocated  an  el- They finally settled on a team of  

stratq~ists for the San Francisco 
49ers and Miami Dolphins contin­
ued to plot ways yesterday to con­
tain the arms of Dan Marino and Joe 
Montana. lbeir offensive counter­
parts, meanwhile. polished secret 
weapons that could decide Super 
Bowl XIX 8 running attacks. 
Coaches Don Shula of the Dol­
phins and Bill Walsh of the 49ers 
continued to talk primarily about 
stopping their opponents' passing 
games, run by perhaps the two best 
quartcrbacks in the National Foot­
ball League this season. They also ac­
knowledged that ignoring the run 
could he fatal. 
"lbat was especially true of the 49ers, who face a Miami offense that lost its top rusher, Andra Franklin, in the second game of the season and passed more than 60 percent of the time. 
"We know thcy can run the ball," Walsh said of the Dolphins. "During the course of the game, they'll prob­ably break a running play on us be­cause we'll be concentrating on the pass. We can't ignore the run en­tirely. We have to play sound, basic defense." 
Shula said his only questionable player was nickel back Paul Lankford, who twisted a knee in the AFC title game victory over the Pit-bow in the NFC championship game Woody Bennett, a short-yardage with the Chicago Bears and who specialist for most of his five previ­may be replaced on the roster by ous NFL years, and Tony Nathan, linebacker Ron Ferrari, on injured who had been used as a spot runner reserve since Nov. I I. and receiver in the past. Bennett 
Those-casualty reports, however, ended up as the team's leading rus­don't include long-lost players like her with 606 yards for a 4.2 average Franklin, whose knee injury sent the and Nathan had 558 yards, a 4.7 
Dolphins on a frenzied search for average and caught 61 passes, third running backs to supplement the on the team behind Duper and record-breaking passing attack of Clayton. 

Kickers ready to tackle 'Super' pressure cooker 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO-Ray Wersching 
has been his reliable selffor 'the San 
Francisco 49ers this season, but only 
a great Super Bowl performance will 
salvage what has been an off year for 
Uwe von Schamann of the Miami 
Dolphins. 
The Miami place-kicker's season­
long slump has been a hot topic this 
week as the two teams prepare for 
Sunday's National Football League 
championship game. 
The sixth-year pro, successful on 
only nine of 19 field goal attempts 
during the regular season, discussed 
his problems candidly, fielding a 
barrage ofquestions from reporters. 



SENIORS 
He said with a shrug that he has no explanation for his decline as one of the NFL's most dependable kickers. 
He has watched himself on film and consulted with others, but said he never gets an answer. 
"It seems to be a thing of dis­tance," said von Schamann, who was seven-for-seven inside 30 yards but zero-for-seven from beyond 40. "I look at myself and see the same swing I've always had." 
This week, he hopes to change the trend. 
"I'm extremely confident going into the game," said von Schamann, a .708 career field goal kicker in his first five NFL seasons. 
~ 
TAKE A CHANCE Learn, Grow, Give and Love 
for more info: 
Mary Ann Roemer M.J. Murray Center for Social Associate Office Concerns 
239-5521 239-7949 
HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES 
ti:·====== Application Deadline-February 1st 

Attention All Juniors Junior Parents Weekend Information 
The deadline for all returns is January 31.1985. If your patents have not yet mailed in their registra1 ion forms please encourage them to do so as soon as possible! 
Also, if your parents have not received a registration form, you may pick them up in the Students' Activities Office in LaFortune. All parents SHOULD have received them before Christmas break. 
Also, if you would like to purchase add!tional tickets for any event in addition to thosP ordered bv your parents on their registration form, or it you have 2ny que::,tions concerning registration, please contact Mary at 2206. 
Thursday,)anuary 17, 1984-page 10 

..CJ'Qowe~ fptt aQQ occagiong" 
Come in and Browse 
327lincolnway 232--3354 


::;:~11BAR~ 
11-2 Burgers, dogs, brew 25¢ beers 9-3 am 
, Late Night Happy Hour 50¢ Beers 75¢ Mixed 
The 'LAW' will be playing! 
~..r..r..rJC"'"..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..;-.-o-..r..r..;-..r..r..r..r..r..r.;er..r..r..r..r..r..r..;-JQ 


A MARTIN LUTHER KING COMMEMORATIVE PROGRAM 
SACRED HEART 
JANUARY 17, 1985 
7:00P.M. 
featuring ... 
Personal Reflections by Professor Joe Scott 
Readings by James Patterson 
Notre Dame Gospel Choir 

Inspirational Truth Choir 





View~_o_i_n__t_________
Th_ur-sd-ay_.Ja-nu-ary_l_7._19-84-pa-ge-ll 
The implication of Goetz's 'hero' image 
One of this holiday season's major news stories was that of Bernhard Hugo Goetz, the New York Subway Shooter. Goetz, 37, was riding a subway through the Bronx when he was confronted by four menacing youths. He sat impassively as they asked him for the time, then a cigarette, then a match and finally for SS each. Replying, "Yes, I have SS for each of 
John Perez 
just wondering 

you," Goetz proceeded to methodically pump a .38-caliber bullet into each of his assailants. After asking two horrified women sitting nearby ifthey were all right and nonchalantly telling an equally aghast conductor that "they were trying to rip me off," he leapt from the moving train and ran offinto the dark tunnel. 
Public reaction to the shootings was swift and loud. However, the prevailing sentiment was not what one would expect after a multi­ple attempted homicide. A special police hotline, established by the NYPD in its quest for information about the then-unsolved crime, was deluged with calls. Most of the calls offered no information. Instead, hundreds of callers praised the vigilante. Some suggested that he run for president. After his capture, many offered to contribute funds for his bail and legal defense. 
Following his surrender to police, Goetz explained his actions by saying that he had been mugged and seriously injured in january of 1981 and thus resolved never to be "taken" again. "The incident was an education," he said. "I learned that the city doesn't care what happens to you." Packing his revolver became a routine part of his daily commuting to and from his Green­wich Village area electronics firm. 
All of Goetz's four victims, 18-and 19-year­olds, had extensive criminal records and were carrying long screwdrivers sharpened into potentially deadly weapons at the time of the shooting. Many New Yorkers and other ur­banites nationwide felt the wounded youths had gotten what they deserved, that Goetz had merely defended himself and, in the process, ridded society of some of its count­less parasites. Some movie theaters in the area staged revivals ofthe 1974 movieDeath Wish, in which Charles Bronson portrayed a similar vigilante folk hero and reported capacity crowds. 
It is undeniable that crime is, and always has been, a cancer that accompanies society's growth and progress. It is equally true that one crime (in this case, a vigilante shooting) can never right an earlier one. The problem lies in defining "crime." One definition of crime, according to Webster's, is "an act com­mitted in violation ofa law prohibiting it." An­other is a "wrongdoing which negatively affects the whole public and not just the rights 
If you have an opinion, why not share it? 
If you would /Ike to respond to something you've read in The Observer, why not write a letter to tbe editor. Letters should be well­written, typed, no more than 250 words in lengtb and must bear tbe signature of the au­thor. Letters wbicb are notsigned by tbe author will not bepublished. 
Letters to the editor can be mailed to The Observer, P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556, or delivered to either our Notre Dame office In LaFortune Student Center or our Saint Mary's office in Haggar College Center. 
The Observer reserves the right to edit all material submitted to tbe Viewpoint depart­mentforpublication. 
of an individual." Ifone interprets Goetz's ac­tions using the first definition, then there is no doubt that he has committed a crime; he is a criminal. If, on the other hand, one abides by the latter definition, he is not only not a cri­minal but ahero. By "neutralizing" (as the CIA would say) proven criminals, he has worked for the betterment ofsociety. 
We realize, ofcourse, that a society remains a society only so long as its members live un­der some sort of established order and that laws are the framework for this order. Bernhard Goetz violated this order. Therefore, he should be punished, taking into consideration the context ofhis actions in de­termining appropriate punishment. However, the real importance of the Subway Shooting incidents lies not in the effect butin the cause. 
It seems that government is always all too wont to overlook the possible ramifications of its actions. It seems obvious that the designers of the subway, for example, should have known that, by nature of enclosing a large number ofpersons in a limited space, a unique potential for crime would exist. In the case of New York's antiquated system, security was never a design factor, and the NYPD and Tran­sit Police have been busy since the system's inauguration. Likewise the police, being aware of this, should take special measures·to prevent and combat subway crime. 
The subway shootings are only a single ex­
ample of our cities' lack of control over their 
"technological improvements." Public 
housing in most major cities is another exam­
ple of a well-meaning project ravaged by 
crime. Apparently the designers of most proj­
ects, like the NYC subway designers, forgot 
that people, replete with human failings, 
would be using their creations. 
Criminals are essentially cowards by na­ture. They strike only when the prey is vulner­able, and poor urban planning and design has created a world ofopportunity for them. Sub­ways are poorly lit and inadequately patrolled. Housing projects try to pack as many poor people as possible into shabby buildings. Police forces are being trimmed. Courts give slaps on the wrist to those few who are ap­prehended (remember that Goetz's tormen­tors had long arrest records). 
The solution is twofold. First, police forces must be expanded and better-trained to cope with urban crime. Second, future public works projects should be designed with safety and security in mind. Ifthis is not done, if the problem (urban crime) is ignored in favor ofa symptom (like the occasional vigilante), then undoubtedly more symptoms will arise. Someday still another "Subway Shooter" will arise, and the public will have no choice but to cheer him on. 
john Perez is a junior accounting major at Notre Dame and a regular Viewpoint colum­nist. 


Student Saver opens :after lengthy battle 
The student government is taking a great financial risk with its student· run general store project. But besides money, it is putting something more important on the line with this project --its credibility. 
Th1is afternoon the general store will open, despite the administration's foot-dragging and attempts to thwart the store's effectiveness through regulation. The store will be located in the classroom off the second floor ballmom and will be open in the afternoon from 4 until 8. Lower-cost domestic items and schools supplies will be available. 
For example, a notebook that costs $1.09 at the Hammes Bookstore will cost only 69 cents at the student store. The notebook will have the same number of pages but will not have the school's emblem stamped on the front. Forty cents is too much to pay for that privilege.
,I 

Tite student government, and especially Student Body President Robert Bertino and Student Senator Pat Browne, have wrestled with the administra­tion about the store for months. They have been nearly drowned in the garbotge the administration has been heaping upon this project since its inception, but suprisingly they have come up smelling like roses. 
Tite administration, however, has been against this project since the beginning. Vice President for Business Affairs Thomas Mason was cautious of the project. And Vice President for Student Affairs, Father David Tyson, qualj[fied his approval of the project with a fistful of regulations. But the store will open today nevertheless. 
Tite student store is a victory for Notre Dame students. It has been a long time since students have so visibly effected real change at Notre Dame. For too long the student government has been powerless in all but the most superficial matters. It is about time something was done about the unfair, monopolistic practices ofthe bookstore. 
According to Browne, "We have invested $10,000 into this project. As long as students realize that the store is around and is there for their use, it will mcceed. Ifthey don't, it will fail." 
Excessive efforts to cut down the market and curtail the growth of the store prove that the administration clearly does not want the store to succeed. But enough student support will prove the store effective and preserve the credibility ofthe student government. 
From Bertino's initial survey of sundry prices last winter to the time the store opens its doors today, the concept of a student-run general store in competition with the bookstore is a victory for Notre Dame students. Stu­dents, in return, should show that they support the student government and the >tore by purchasing their personal items and school supplies at the Notre Dame Student Saver. 
-The Observer 

n 
'~ 
-
-
-
-

The Observer Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Ed1tor-m-Chief . .. . Bob Vonderheide Business Manager. .. . Dave Taiclet Manag1nr;, Ed1tor ... Mark Worscheh Controller. . Maripat Horne ~ 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the studellts of the News Ed1:or . ... Sarah Hamilton Advertising Manager .. Anne Culligan University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Ed1ior . . Dan McCullough Circulation Manager. . ..... Jeff O'Neill reflect the policies of the administration of either inst1tut10n. The news is reported as Samt Mary's Editor . . Anne Monastyrsk1 Systems Manager . .. . .... Kevin Williams accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editonals represent the op1n1on Sports Ed1tor. M1chael Sullivan Production Manager. ... Chris Bowler of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column V1ewpo1nr Editor .. .... Dave Grote Project Manager . . Amy Stephan present the views ol their authors. Column space is available to all members of the Features Editor . Mary Healy 
Icomrnun1ty, and the free expression of vary1ng opm1ons on campus. through letters. Photo Ed1tor. . .. Pete Laches Founded November 3, 1966 is encouraged. 
1 
-~-------------------------------­
-
-



Sports Briefs 
The ND/SMC Gymnastics Club will be 
meeting today at 4 p.m. at the Angela Athletic Facility. The Observer 
The Novice Women's Crew Club will be 
meeting today at 8 p.m. in Lafortune. -The Obsert'er 
Bengal Bouts traininghegins today at 3:45p.m. in 
the boxing room at the ACC. Anyone who is interested may attend; no t·xperience is necessary.· The Obsert'er 
The off-campus hockey teamwill be meeting 
for practice tomorrow at 5:30p.m. at the ACC. Players should bring $6 for a jersey. For more information, call Timo at .287-8.264. ·The Obsert'£'1" 
NVA river-rafting trip participants will be 
mt·eting on Monday at 7 p.m. in the football auditorium at the ACC. Anyone who is interested must attend. · The Observer 
Notre Dame soccer players Dominick Driano 
and Rich Herdcgen were named to the all-Mideast region team in 
December. The two senior captains led the Irish this year at both 
ends ofthe field. Herdegen was the leading scorer on the 1984 squad 
with 34 points, and he ended his career second on the all-time Irish 
scoring list with 13 7 points in four seasons. Driano, meanwhile, led 
the defense from his sweeperback position and recorded a team­
high .23 defensive saves. · Tbe Obsert'er 
Interhall volleyball toumaments are 
being organized by NVA. The entry deadline for both the men's and women's tournaments is Wednesday. For more information, call the NVA office at .239-6100. -The Observer 
Doubles racquetball toumaments are 
heing organized by NVA. lbere also will be a doubles handball tournament. The entry deadline for all of the tournaments is Wed­nt·sday. For more information, call the NVA office at 239-6100. ·The Obsert'er 
An Indoor traCk meetis being organized by NVA. The entry deadline is Wednesday. For more information, call the NVA office at 239-6100. -The ObsertJer 
Thursday, January 1 7, 1984 -page 12 
Last Night's Results Notre Dame 96, Holy Cross 61 Holy Cross (61) 
M FG-A  FT·A  R  
Hohman  33  3·6  0-1  1  
Ahern  24  3-5  0-0  4  
Maguire  15  1·2  0-2  2  
McCaffrey  34  2·15  8~9  2  
Reale  36  6-14  2-4  4  
Ryan  1  0·0  0-0  0  

Box Scores 
Downing  18  1·3  0-1  1  3  2  
Moore  23  4-7  1-2  2  1  9  
Sims  15  3-6  5-6  1  3  11  
F  P  200 25-49 12-16  22  22  62  
2  6  FG  Pet.  .510.  FT  Pet.  .750.  Team  
3  6  rebounds· 1. Turnovers· 13. Assists· 11 (Hall  
5  2  3). Technicals ·  Marquette Bench. Marquette  
3  12  Coach Majerus.  
2  14  Halftime  ·  Marquette 33, Notre Dame 32.  
0  0  Officials  ·  Ron letcher, Woody Mayfield, AI  

Mulligan 10-0 0-0000 Cain (all Big Eight). A-11,052 (c). 
Durkee 25 6-10 4-5 2 0 16 
Coates 25 1-4 1 ·2 3 1 3 
Meyer 6 0-0 2·2 2 2 2 
200 22-56 17·25 20 18 61 January 7, 1985 
FG Pet. .393. FT Pet. .680. Team Rice 73, Notre Dame 70 rebounds -5. Turnovers -16. Assists · 4 Notre Dame (70) (McCaffrey 3). Technicals ·none. M FG-A FT·A R F P 
Dolan 23 3·4 0·1 3 5 6Notre Dame (96) Barlow 38 7-14 0-1 6 5 14M FG-A FT·A R F P Kempton 26 3-4 0-0 4 1 6Dolan 20 4-5 4~5 5 0 12 Rivers 39 9-21 5-7 4 4 23Barlow 30 8-16 1·2 9 1 17 Hicks 32 2·6 2·3 3 5 6Kempton 22 2·2 4-4 3 3 8 Royal 21 2·2 5·6 2 5 9Rivers 32 6· 7 3-4 2 1 15 Beeuwsaert 7 2·2 0·0 2 2 4Hicks 24 6-11 1-2 8 3 13 Duff 7 0·0 0·1 0 5 0Spencer 5 3·6 0-0 4 1 6 Voce 1 0·0 0·0 0 0 0Royal 12 1·2 4-4 2 2 6 Spencer 5 0-0 2·2 2 0 2
Newell 20·30-0000 
Peters 1 0·0 0-0000Beeuwsaert 15 0-7 2·2 9 4 2 200 28-53 14-21 26 32 70
Duff 40-00-0010 Peters 7 2·3 1·2 1 0 5 
FG Pet. .528. FT Pet. .667. Team Price 7 1-3 0-0 0 2 2 
rebounds -1. Turnovers -14. Assists • 7 Voce 20 3·4 4-6 6 4 1 0 (Barlow 3). Technicals ·none. 200 36-69 24-31 49 22 96 Rice(73) M FG·A FT-A R F P
FG Pet. • .522. FT Pet. .774. Team rebounds -4. Turnovers -12. Assists · 15 
Hines 39 3·11 1·6 1 4 7 (Rivers 9). Technicals ·none. 
Barnett 40 8·13 6-9 9 4 22 Cashaw 38 4-6 2-3 9 2 10
Halftime-Notre Dame 44, Holy Cross 28. Officials· John Carr, Sam Lickliter, Tom Clark 
Petitt 26 3-3 10·10 2 2 16 (Mid-American). A· 10,918. 
Steele 31 3-5 4-4 4 5 1 0 Irving 14 0-0 4-6 0 4 4 Crawford 11 1·1 2·2 1 0 4 Daniels 1 0·1 0-0 0 0 0 200 22-40 29-40 26 21 73
January 12, 1985 Notre Dame 63, Marquette 62 
FG Pet. .550. FT Pet. .725. Team 
Barlow 
Dolan 
Kempton 
Hicks 
Rivers 
Duff Royal Voce 
FG Pet. rebounds · Notre Dame (63) 

rebounds ~ 2. Turnovers -15. Assists -6 M FG·A FT·A R F P 
(Barnet13). Technicals ·none. 40 4-8 6-6 9 4 14 
Halftime· Rice 34, Notre Dame 32. Officials 28 0-1 0·0 5 5 0 
-Bobby Dibler, Mike Tanco, Bob Straface (all 29 5-9 5·6 5 2 15 
Southwest Conference). A· 4,817. 38 3-9 4-5 6 1 1 0 40 6-16 12-14 1 4 24 50-00-0000 13 0·0 0-0 0 3 0 7 0-2 0-0 0 1 0 200 18·45 27-31 26 20 63 
January 5, 1985 .400. FT Pet. • .871. Team 
Notre Dame 79, Davidson 62 
Notre Dame (79) 1. Turnovers • 16. Assists -6 
M FG-A FT-A R F P
(Kempton, Rivers 2). Technicals-Kempton. Barlow 37 9·16 5·6 6 3 23 Marquette (62) Dolan 35 1·2 7-9 11 2 9 M FG·A FT-A R F p Kempton 28 3·3 5-6 1 0 3 11 Foley 17 1·2 0-0 2 0 2 Hicks 34 4-11 2-3 2 3 10 Trotter 23 3-7 5·5 5 3 11 Rivers 34 6-15 2-4 2 3 14 Cop a 24 3-3 0-0 2 4 6 Royal 6 2-3 2-4 2 1 6 Hall 26 3-6 0·0 2 1 6 Voce 6 0-1 0·0 0 2 0 Johnson 40 5-10 1·2 5 4 11 Beeuwsaert 6 1·1 1·3 1 0 3 Davis 14 2·5 0-0 2 3 4 Duff 9 0-1 1·3 2 o 1 
Peters 3 1·1 0·0 0 0 2 Spencer 2 0·0 0-1 2 0 0 200 27-54 25-39 38 17 79 
FG Pet. .500. FT Pet. .641. Team rebounds • 3. Turnovers -9. Assists -11 (Rivers 4). Technicals ·none. 
Davidson (62) 

M FG·A FT·A  R  F  P  
Himes  27  3-4  0-05 3 6  
Born  30  2·9  4-4  12  3  8  
Niebuhr  24  0-4  0·0  1  4  0  
Heineman  25  7-8  2·2  0  3  16  
Rucker  31  5·12  2-4  3  3  12  
McConkey  15  1·5  0·0  1  1  2  
Bego  23  4-5  1-1  1  3  9  
Tanner  12  1-4  0-0  0  5  2  
Rupp  4  0-0  0·0  0  3  0  
Wolfe  5  2·2  1·3  2  2  5  

Gynn 10-00-0100 Keener 10-0 0-0000 Fitzgerald 1 0-1 0·0 1 0 0 Riazzi 1 1·3 0-0 0 0 2 200 26-57 1()-14 27 30 62 
FG Pet. .456. FT Pet. .714. Team rebounds· 5. Turnovers· 11. Assists· 8 (Born 3). Technicals ·none. 
Halftime-Notre Dame 37, Davidson 31. Of· ficials ·Mike Sierco, Bob Taylor. Nelson Ellis (all Southern Conference). A-5,279. 
December 30, 1984 Creighton 60, Notre Dame 58 Notre Dame (58) 
M FG·A  FT-A  R  F  P  
Rivers  19  2-4  1-2  0  0  5  
Hicks  36  6·14  3-5  5  4  15  
Royal  32  2-4  2-3  6  3  6  
Beeuwsaert  20·00-00 10  
Duff  24  0-1  0-0  4  4  0  
Kempton  36  3-13  1·2  6  5  7  
Dolan  5  0-0  0 -0020  
Barlow  40  8-20  9·10  11  2  25  
Voce  6  0-0  0-0  3  3  0  
200 21-56 16-22  35  24  58  
FG  Pet.  .375.  FT  Pet.  .727  Team  

rebounds • 5. Turnovers -15. Assists -10 (Duff 5). T echnicals · none. 
Creighton (60) 

M FG·A FT·A R F P Benjamin 40 7-10 9-11 12 3 23 Edwards 5 0·1 0·0 0 1 0 Swain 30 3-9 2-5 2 2 8 Moore 39 6-11 5·7 3 3 17 Wood 3 0-0 0·0 1 2 0 Johansen 10 0·1 2-3 3 2 2 Morris 17 3-7 0-0 1 1 6 Baugh 29 1-4 0-0 3 4 2 Gripado 27 1·2 0-1 1 4 2 200 21-45 18·27 26 22 60 
FG Pet. .467. FT Pet. • .667. Team rebounds · 4. Turnovers · 13. Assists · 15 (Moore 6). Technicals ·none. 
Halftime -Creighton 33, Notre Dame 28. Officials-Rick Wulkow, Ed Shu mer (both Mis­souri Valley). A-8,572. 
1he Ohsen•er Notn: l>anw officl'. locatl'd on the third tloor of l.aforttllll' Studl'nt Cl'nll'r. acn·pts da"itkd adn·rthin~ from l) a.m. unril ·I p.m.. Monda\' through fridaY. Tbe Ohsen·er Saint .\tan·, olfit<·. located on tht· third tloor ,;f llaggar Colkge C.t·mer. an'l'pls cla"ifkds from 12.:10 p m unril ~p.m .. ~!on­day though l·riday lkadlinl' ti>r nt·xl-lb\' ,-l.l'sifit·Lb is _{ p.m. All cla"ilkds 
must he prepaid. eithl'r in person or h1 mail. Uurge is I 0 <Tnh pn fin· dura<·· ll'fs Ql'f da\'. 



Classifieds 
-
-
[}JoTICES I 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8997 
TYPING Jaclue Boggs 684-8793 
GOVERNMENT JOBS. $15,000 • $50,000/y•r poulble. All occu~ tiona. How to !Ind. Call 805-687-6000, Ext. R-9999. 
............ 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
NEED TYPING, CALL DOLORES 2n· 6045 PICK UP AND DELIVERY 
Horse Dyed, Need soap and water to clean him off. 
Where IS G~no·s East? 
TYPING CAU CHRIS 234-8997 
Room Available At N.D. Apts. Please Contact John Mark or PJ at232 0493 
TYPING 
JACKIE BOGGS 
684-87113 

At1ention Female Students: The New York Times is the only morning newspa­per that delivers directly to rooms in female dorms. While those other comic books and newspapers treat female stu­dents like second class Citizens. throwing their newspapers out of elevators and on the front desk whereanyone can steal your paper, The New York Times treats female students with class. delivering the paper directly to their rooms before 8:00a.m.. For delivery of the Times, con­tact George Devenny at t45 Stanford 283-2094 
~~~~~F~~~~ ~ 

LOST: Leather WILSON "JET" Basket­ball in the ACC on Fridey. November 30. 1984. in the afternoon, in or around Gym 
2. Definale ldenlifica-lion can be made. If found. PLEASE CALL 283-4335. 0 
....... 
ATIENTION: LOST. al Semor Bar-1 dart< 
grey overcoat, with a brown-black zip·ir 
liner. Anyone who was at the private party 
Tuesday night ( January 15) who may 
have accidently taken it please call me at 
283· 1156. or else return it to the Senior bar lost-and found. 
LOST: N.D RUGBY LETIER JACKET. 
FOR RENT 

Nice furnished homes for next school year. 2n-3604. 
. . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . .. . . .. . .. . . . . ..... . ... . .... . .. Furnished home ava1lable now half mile north of campus. 277-3604. 
1~....------w_A_N_TE_D__JI 
DEPENDABLE PART-TIME WAITRESS WANTED. MUST BE 21 FOR APPT.. CALL 289-8031, ORIGINAL CONEY IS· LAND REST. 
FOR SALE 
FOR SALE: '72 Skylark Body: Poor Engine: Good $500 or beat offer Jeff 288·2042 

For Sale Several tanks of methyl­isocyanate in good condition. Contact 
TICKETS 
$$$ I won the Wisconsin lot1ery last year and I would like to trade in my winnings for t student ticket to the DePaul game Sun· day! Please call Tom at 1175! 
wanted DESPERATELY NEED TICKETS TO THE DEPAUL GAME ON SUNDAY. CALL BILL AT 288-4637. 
I NEED TICKETS TO THE NOTRE DAME vs DEPAUL B-BALL GAME . Please call Mark at 1461. 
NEED: 2 DePaul GAs real bad; big$$$ call Mark 1688 
Wanted: Two DEPAUL tckts.277·8649 evenings 
HELP!! IN DIRE NEED OF 2 DePAUL TIX. CALL DAVE AT 3588. 
I need 2 or 3 DEPAUL GA's desperately. Please call Mike tonight at 1747. 
I PERSONALS J 
Heather,how was break? Hope to see you soon. 
Attention all current Typesetters There w111 be a mandatory meeting this 
ATIENTION SOPHOMORES SUPERBOWL TRIP FOR TWO Suitcase Party South Dining Hall 9pm-2am $5.00 per person Some Lucky Sophomore Will Win!! 
FR. GUIDO SARDUCCI TWO SHOWS 7:00PM AND 9:00PM SHOWS $5.00 IN ADVANCE AND $6.00 AT THE DOOR. TICKETS ON SALE STARTING MONDAY. BUY YOUR TIX NOW FOR THE JANUARY 19TH SHOW! 
FR. GUIDO SARDUCCI TWO SHOWS ON THE 19TH OF JANUARY SHOWS AT 7:00PM AND 9:00PM TIX ON SALE MONDAY DEC 10 $5.00 IN ADVANCE AND $6.00ATTHE DOOR 
When is this test ever going to enci? ......... 
RAB'BiT..DiE·o,··N~~d··~i·d·~..i~·di~·i~·,··H~iP 
me bet ore my lather finds out! 
,....................................... 
WELCOME BACK LONDONERS' ... to 
South Bend winters, real classes and 
tests. cold beer, the bars, apple-cheddar 
bake, parietals. and domer life in general. 
love, THOSE WHO STAYED HERE 
Joe, Can you get me a beer? love. the Wench 
................... . ............................. Joe, You were going lo do WHAT to my face? love, The Wench 8th lloor semmar room now open lor reservations, pleeae contact the II· brary monitor. Space Ia limited, call before 7 a.m. Pteeae 
FOR SALE:-LARGE COUCH-GREAT FOR SLEEPING SANTA BROUGHT A NEW ONE FOR X-MAS SO MUST SELL 
· CALL 2n-7570 

Tough friends lest longer. 
Cthu-who? 
...... ........................ 

WOULD THE SILLY PERSON THAT LOST HIS/HER STUDENT B BALL TICKET PACK PLEASE CALL THE NICE PERSON (THAT WANTS TO GO TO THE DEPAUL GAME BUT DOESN'T HAVE A TICKET) THAT FOUND YOUR TIX (277-7570) 
................................... 
Finding yourself with nothing to do on Thursday and Friday afternoons? l.Jke to earn some extra spending money mstead of just SlUing around? If yes, and 1f you are free from 1-5 on either of those days. then the Observer has a deal for you' Call Tom Mowle al 239-5303 and find out how you can become a day editor . 
Reindeer Died. need a nde lo North Pole. 
INTERESTED IN SOME NIGHT WORK! Join The Observer production depert­ment. Layout staff people work 2 houra per w-. Opportunity for ltdvenc:e­ment. Stop up to our Notre O.me office 
and flU out an eppllcatlon. 
Undergraduates, Graduate Students. Law Students. Faculty, and adminl· stralive personal: The New York Times, the world's greatest newspaper. is available for campus delivery at 35 cents a day on weekdays and $2.50 for the Sun· day edition. The Times guarantees to deliver your copy of the Times to your dorm room. ma1lbox, office,carrol, deparl· menl office or anywhere else on campus that you desire. Off-campus students can pick up their cop1es at the library, 
Iafortune, or any other place on campus. To get the Times 01mply contact George Devenny al145 Stanford Halt 283·2094. 

BLUE AND BLACK WITH NAME ON INSIDE POCKET. MISPLACED AT BRIDGED'S TUESDAY EVENING OR EARLY WEDNESDAY MORNING. PLEASE RETURN , NO QUESTIONS ASKED. CALL J.R REID AT 2n-7561. 
LOST; TAN LUGGAGE BAG with blue straps: may have been left ou1s1de Regina Hall:contains mostly sweaters and teans;if found please call 283-2545. 
LOST: Men's h1gh school class ring before b<eak. Silver with blue cut stone. Initials on the InSide. If you have found it, call Dave &13049. Reward. 
Union Carbide Corporation. 
FLOPPY DISKS 4 SALE avoid bookstore ripoff ONLY $1.50 per. Call John 3592 

FOR SALE: LARGE COUCH-GREAT FOR SLEEPING. SANTA BROUGHT A NEW ONE FOR X·MAS SO MUST SELL CALL2n-7'S70 
FOR SALE: MINT-CONDITION 1973 TAKAMINE 12-STRING GUITAR. SPRUCE TOP, ROSEWOOD BACK & SIDES. HC CASE. $250 OR BEST OF· FER. CALL JIM, 288-5009, AFTER 5:30 PM 
Sunday, January 20 at 4pm in the Observer office. We will be puUing to­gether this semester's schedule. Any questions please call Bill at 239-5303 or 283-1420. Thanks. 
YOU HAVE A BEAUTIFUL BODY AND ARE WORTH THE WORLD 
NINER FEVER ...NINER FEVER .. NINER FEVER ... NINER FEVER The Super Bowi is coming to Stanford and the NINERS will be there .... What happened to JOe Theis­
mann and the 'Skins?... 49ERS49ERS49ERS49ERS49ERS 49ERS49ERS49ERS49ERS49ERS 49ERS49ERS49ERS LYNETIE IS NOT A FISH! 
.................................. ...... 
. so then he says to me, "You know, you're right. I think I will go to Pago Pago and learn to shoot skeet ... 
NOTRE DAME: WHERE MEN ARE MEN AND WOMEN ARE TOO. 
ST. MARY'S: WHERE THE LAKES ARE COLD AND THE WOMEN ARE TOO. 
Welcome beck Londonen~: W.R., Kevin, Jay. Chuck, Sue. Jill, Marie. etc. from your friends who missed you bloody much! 
To whoever you are from the 6th floor of Grace--thanks a million for the help back to the dorm Monday n1te--the girl from PW. 
......... Pat and Claire siltin' in a Hoi Tub K·I·S-S­1-N-GI 
SAVE MONEY'! PURCHASE YOUR TEXTS AT PANDORA'S BOOKS,937 SOUTH BENDAVE.,NEXTTOCORBY'S BAR. 233·2342. 
MAKE MONEY I! SELL YOUR CLASS BOOKS TO PANDORA'S FOR $$ OR CREDIT ! PANDORA'S BOOKS.937 SO.BEND AVE. 233·2342. 
The Observer Thursday,January 17, 1984-page 13 

Lewis' jumper boosts Boilers past Wildcats 


Coates look on. The Irish soundly defeated the Crusaders, 96-61 to raise their record to 8-3. 
Associated Press 
EVANSTON, Ill. -Troy Lewis wasn't the main man to take the final shot for Purdue, but_ as things worked out he hit a I7-foot jumper with II seconds to go last night to lead the Boilermakers to a 50-49 Big Ten basketball victory over Northwestern. 
"Steve Reid was supposed to take the shot but he was covered and Todd Mitchell set up the screen for me," said Lewis. "It was a good screen and I was wide open. I told myselfI'm going to hit the shot. I had confidence." 
Lewis said the winning basket 111ade up for missed shots in the Indiana State high school tourna­ment the last two years. 
"In the last two years I missed last­second shots twice in the state tournament," said Lewis. "This one made up for them." 
teammate Ken Barlow and Holy Cross' Walter Northwestern had rallied midway 
in the second half to take the lead and the Wildcats remained in front until Lewis hit the game winner. 
Elliott Fullen missed a I 5-footer that could have given the Wildcats a victory in the final seconds. 
"This is a disappointing loss," said Northwestern Coach Rich Falk, "because we could have gone above Purdue in the Big Ten. We played hard, we had command of the game but we didn't get the key plays at the end. But that was a great shot by a freshman to give them the lead." 
Purdue Coach Gene Keady claimed his Boilermakers still lack confidence. 
"We're struggling confidence­wise but it's a win and, naturally, we'll take it," said Keady. "We had good defense, we hung in there." 
The triumph snapped a two-game Purdue losing streak and gave the Boilermakers an II-4 record, with a 2-3 mark in the conference, while Northwestern suffered its fifth straight defeat and dropped to 4-I 0 
overall and 0-4 in the Big Ten. 
Fullen's jumper at the gun hit the rim and rolled off, depriving the Wildcats ofa victory. 

PORTABLES/WALK~ftANS 
AM/FM/SW1 /SW2, Auto shut­off. balance control. 2 way, 4 spks. syst. multivoltage, stereo wide. Reg. $139.95. 

TOSHIBA 
...___ RECORDERS • Convenient one ~ touch recording • Fashionable ~slim design •Counter •Loud­
~§i ness switch •Soft ejecg 
$169.95­
139 5 

TOSHIBA Auto-Reverse AM/FM/SW1 1 RT-SX3 SW2 4 band graphic equalizer music selector syst. Dolby* NR metal tape, multivoltage, stereo w1de. 

18995 
Reg $1239.95. 

Creighton 
pF5-300 

continuedjrompage 16 
Creighton 60, ND 58 
•Stereo cassette recordino •Automatic Music Sensor 

A three-week layoff seemed to
1099 ~eg 
$16995
(AMS) skips forward or backwards to the next selection 

have taken its toll on Notre Dame as 
•Four-inch dynamic speakers •Two built-in micro­

the Irish were sluggish in a 60-58 road loss to the Bluejays of Creighton University on Dec. .30. The Irish had not played a game since Dec. 9, and their lack of timing and execution, combined with the loss of freshman guard David Rivers to a first-half ankle injury, made things a lot easier for the Bluejays. Still, this was a game that Notre Dame could, and perhaps should, have won. 
"We didn't shoot well," said Irish coach Digger Phelps of his squad 
High fashion comes to portable high fidelity with Sony's 

that hit just 38 percent of its shots 
sleek, .compact CFS-7. Designed for convenience, 

from the field. "We had chances to 
smart looks and easy portability, this stereo cassette 
beauty is ready to fly with jet-set ease ... built to please 

win it, and didn't. The guys who 
discriminating ears. From its metal tape capability to 

should have come through just
14995 
its Automatic Music Sensor (AMS), the lightweight CSC-165 
played a lousy second half, and they CFS-7 is designed for top performance. 11 provides •··---------•R•E•G•.•$1•9•9•.•95____.,.,,. beat us by two." clean, crisp off-the-air and live recording. You can con­nect two pairs of headphones for private listening 
s 0 
The Irish jumped out to an early 
(optional). All in all. great looks, features and sound ~
N 

4-0 lead, but Willis Reed's Bluejays
r-------;;~~~;:~~~~~~~~1 mean great value. Sony's CFS-7 stereo radio cassette-Jl. • 
slowly began to take control of the 

corder 


game and opened up an II-point lead after the first nine minutes of
CROWN 
play. Seven-foot center Benoit Ben­jamin was an intimidating force at 
-~ HIGH POWER


AIWA 

both ends of the floor for the 
World's Largest Manufacturer of Portables WM-8 
Bluejays, playing the full40 minutes.
cs250 ... Dual Casseite SAVE! 
Benjamin finished with 23 points to 
Decks on a Single Chassis R!!IJ· $139.95 
go with his I2 rebounds and seven mean llape Dubbing Capa-REG.$159.95 blockedshots.
8995 

blllty \~ AM/FM cassette recorder. Automatic super loudness WM-8 Th h ...also has AM/FM stereo radio circuit. sensitive tuner. super frequency response. Walkman® Stereo Cassette Play-• e Iris lost Rivers two minutes nd 2 two-way speakers. before the half, but still managed to
a 
"Featherweight MDR-1 headphones supplied for dy-Other features include separate SAVE! 11995 namic stereo sound •Counter-inertial flywheel contri-cut the Creighton lead to five points left channel/right channel vol-SAVE! buies to steady cassette tape travel even when the by intermission. The freshman point 
ume controls. auto shut-off. unit is in motion •Metal tape playback capability. guard tried to come back for the 
,._._.._~~~~~-------r_______.____1\--:----~;;~~~.,~fr~~~:~-~~~~1r.~~~~~~--~=-==::~secondhalf,butstayedinforonlya 
AUTO R~~~~C~SSETTE CROWN minute and a half. Despite Rivers' ab-PLA YER AUTO REVERSE CASSETTE sence, however, the Irish rallied to PLAYER-AM/'M RADIO tie the game, 49-49, by the midway
5995 

point of the second half on the 

strength of solid play by forward 
Ken Barlow and guard Scott Hicks. 
•Super mini FM, FM stereo per-The Bluejays went back out on 
•FM stereo reception •Self-sonal radio• Dynamic power out-top by five with a minute to play, but contained and cordless •Can pul-20mW ( 1 OmW + 10 mW) use as headphones with Walk-•Stereo/mono mode selector the Irish staged one final rally. Bar-
SAVE! 
SAVE! 
4995 man<~> or at home •Can con-•Super mini size (1 Y•'Wx25/16 low hit three offour free throws and REG. $89.95 nect second pair of headphones Hx%" D)•Ear plug type stereo canned a jumper from the top of the 
...R•E•G_.$•5•9•.9•5________.___________._::..n-..n,;,.-t-.,;.~r"~.,;.nv;.M_D•R•-ty•p;.e•d•n•'v•e•rs•...............-................--_..._h<•"'llll!"'lioln•h~~';,.'"~a•r•,d•be-lt...,..inclllliioiluilidiiieild;..-~key to pull Notre Dame within two 
[~ ~ "60-58, bm only <wo '""n"' 
~E~~?t.f ~ ~ re~:!7;~on's subsequent inbounds 
DEPARTMENlr pass was deflected and wound up in


ALLTRONICs 

WE HAVE THE EXCLUSIVE ON QUALITY ELECTRONICS the hands of Matt Beeuwsaert. He fired a pass to Barlow who launched
UNIVERSITY CENTER ON GRAPE ROAD, MISHAWAKA 
a desperation shot that missed. Hicks came away with the rebound,(NEXT TO SERVICE MERCHANDISE, BEHIND JEREMIAH SWEENEY'S) but missed as the final buzzer sounded, punctuating a tough loss
MON.-FRI. 11-9, SAT. 10-9, SUN. 12-5 
for the Irish, who saw their record drop to 5-2.
SALE ENDS JAN. 20, ~ 985 
-Larry Burke 

The Observer Thursday, January 17, 1984 -page 14 
Look toward '85 season 
Irish won't dwell on Aloha defeat 
By THERON ROBERTS 
,\ports Writer 
The year for the Notre Dame foot­

ball team ended just as it began -the 
Irish had the ball, driving down the 
field for what could be the winning 
point~. but came up empty and on 
the short side on the scoreboard. 
That was the story in the third Aloha Bowl played in balmy Honolulu, Hawaii. Notre Dame quar­terback Steve Beuerlcin's pass, on the play that turned out to be the last Irish offensive play of the game, sailed over the hands ofMilt Jackson. All that was left was for Southern Methodist to run out the clock to preserve a 27-20 victory. 
The story has become all too familiar for Notre Dame fans -a close game, with the Irish attempting to narrow the gap and secure the vic­tory, but a failure to cash in when the chips were down. In at least five games in the past two seasons, the situation had been the same. 
"It gets very frustrating," says Bcuerlcin. "We seem to make mistakes as a team in crucial situa­tions. Each game there seem to be two or three plays that really hurt us, but it shouldn't come down to that." 
'Inc Faust-led Irish of the past four years has seen its share of hard luck. But some people have seen so many things go wrong that they attribute it to more than bad luck. 
"We've been experiencing the bad for the past couple of seasons," says Allen Pinkett. "We've learned from those mistakes as a team and from now on, we'll continue to take them and learn from them, and not make the same ones again." 
'Ibere were a few crucial mistakes in the Aloha Bowl which cost Notre Dame a few opportunities: A clip­ping penalty erased a long gain on a pass play to Alonzo Jefferson. A pass interference penalty by Pat Ballage enabled a SMU drive to remain alive. And the one that sticks out-because it could have been the game-winner -was Beucrlein's incomplete pass at the end of the game. 
"I just missed the open receiver," Beuerlein admits. "I still get nightmares about it." 
But the point of all of this is that it was more than one mistake that lost the SMU game, or the other close games in the past few years. It is the frequency of mistakes in crucial situ­ations that has especially hurt. 
The final statistics for the game were nearly even. The difference was the way that the two teams scored their points. Notre Dame used its good field position and gen­erally few plays to score, while SMU put together long scoring drives starting from deep in its own terri­tory. 
Pinkett was again in the offensive spotlight for the Irish, gaining 136 yards, but the Mustangs' rushing tan­dem of Jeff Atkins and Reggie Dupard stole the show, running for 112 and 103 yards, respectively. 
Beuerlein threw II of his 23 passes in the last 2:42, but the Notre Dame coaching staff opted not to usc Beucrlein in some seemingly ob­vious passing situations. The Irish quarterback had not put the ball up since early in the third period as SMU controlled the clock for a big part of the second half. 
"We were really close to pulling this one out, so it's hard to accept," continues Beuerlein. "But we know if we can eliminate those mistakes, we can be more successful." 
"We can't be worried about what has happened in the past, we can only look to the future," Pinkett of­fers. "I'm proud that we finished the way that we did. I attribute the team success down the stretch to the leadership of the seniors. The team could have folded very easily in the latter part ofthe season. Even against SMU, we played well at times and we 
March of Dimes 
Fight Birth Defects 

*****************
ir  .  
il  MJAMI JEWBRY  :  
:  1906Miami EL.  il  
ir ~ "?'.  TOP PRICE  ! "?'il  
:  RINGS*DIAMONDS  :  
il  GOLD*SILVER  ir  
ilil  WATCHES  ir•  
:  Buy-Sell-Exchange  :  
iC  OPENMONDAY·SATURDAY9-6  iC  
:  289-6440  :  

***************** 
had the opportunity to win. " 
Still, it was another year of 
mistakes, a mediocre record and 
only a minor bowl appearance. 
The buzz across the nation con­
cerning Notre Dame's presence in 
the not-so-glorious Aloha Bowl was 
similar to the excitement generated 
a year earlier from the team's post­
season trip to the Liberty Bowl in 
Memphis. 

But just as the weather in Hawaii was different from the frigid condi­tions in Tennessee, the situation leading up to the game and its outcome were also changed. 
This.season, Notre Dame won its last four straight games after a slug­gish 3-4 start. A year ago, three straight losses by the Irish changed the picture from a probable major bowl appearance to a possible minor bowl berth. Even in 1983, Notre Dame edged Boston College. 
"If we would have won, things would look a lot better," Beuerlein concludes. An 8-4 record sounds better than 7-5." 
But the team can not afford to dwell on the past. 
"We can go far with these players, and we haven't lost confidence in ourselves," says Pinkett. "Big things could be in store for us. 
"We're ready." 
Even though the ball bounced the wrong way for the Irish against SMU and at times during the year, the team is ready to ac<cept and meet the challenge ofputting together a good season in 1985. 
---~_,,·-~~<~G&£~1 0111 •••m•wxaasm__.:MK~-.e!iGR'<,~ 
·----11®1··~,,.1(~)-(:~~,~~$~--~----· 

Is there Life after NO? 
-Beyond the parties -Beyond the football games -Beyond the books 
-iiiiiU-11 • -RJWRI 11 PWJ!AWUIIIRt.llll®.al 
~~~~;}(Cl(XC'{.~·~:)l!IK·~~~~ 
What auraits an ND grad in the real world? 
Find out from those who know. Come discuss "Life after Notre Dame" with Alumni Association members. 
When? Tonight at 8:00 

Where? LaFortune Ballroom 
I. 

u
.; 
I 
I 
I ~ 
. 
. 



... 

The Observer Thursday, January 17, 1984 -page 15 
----~ ~-----­

Irish turn down Kickoff Classic 
Associated Press 
NEWARK, N.J. -Notre Dame has taken itself out of considera­tion for the 1985 Kickoff Classic, clearing the way for a probable matchup between Brigham Young and Ohio State on Aug. 27, officials said yesterday. 
Gene Corrigan, Notre Dame athletic director, told officials of the New jersey Sports and Ex­position Authority at the NCAA convention on Tuesday that the Irish face too tough a schedule next season to compete in the preseason game at Giants Stadium. 
"We've put ourselves out ofit," said Corrigan, who was quoted in yesterday's editions of The Record of Hackensack. "It's a little too much for us. If we played on the seventh instead of the 14th, it might have been dif­ferent. but I don't think so." 
Notre Dame is scheduled to play games against eight teams that appeared in postseason games in 1984, beginning that slate on Sept. 14. 
"Many ofour players won't get out of summer school until Aug. 3 or 4, and we would have to bring them into camp by Aug. 7," Notre Dame Coach Gerry Faust said yesterday in a telephone in­terview from South Bend, Ind. "And that's just not fair to the young men. Ifthe game was later, in September, we could bring .them in later in August." 
The NJSEA has not announced who will appear in the Kickoff Classic, but there have been reports that Brigham Young will be invited. The Cougars went 13­0 last season in capturing the na­tional title. 
"Traditionally, they've taken the No. 1 team," said BYU athletic Director Glen Tuckett. "Plus they have to take a Western Ath­letic Conference team within a seven-year period. We're prob­ably as hot a WAC team as there'll ever be." 
A source at Ohio State told the 
Associated Press on yesterday 
• that prior to the NCAA conven­tion, officials for the Kickoff Clas­sic had narrowed the possible opponents for BYU to Notre Dame, Boston College> and Ohio State. 
"I'd be surprised ifit was s:>me­body else" other than Ohio ~;tate, the source said. "'We're lukewarm about it, but we don't have a choice because of the agreement." 
Ohio State would be obligated under a contract between the Big Ten Conference and the Kickoff Classic to accept the invitalion if it was extended. Buckeyes Coach Earle Bruce reportedly is lukewarm about playing in the game because it would leave a two-and-a-half week gap be­tween it and Ohio State's n:guiar season opener on Sept. 14 against Pitt. 
Robert Mulcahy, chief eKecu­tive officer of the NJSEA, did not return a telephone call to com­ment about the Kickoff Classic. 

Women 
continuedfrom page 20 
As hard-fought as the Southern Cal 
and LaSalle games were, however, 
the other five games were not espe­
cially close. Of the five, Notre Dame 
lost only one -78-51 to UCLA. The 
fact that the Irish handled three 
tough opponents and one weak foe 
easily was the most promising 
aspect of the first half of the season. 
Although it does not guarantee that 
Notre Dame will handle the confer­
ence teams in the same way, it does 
show that, if they play to their abil­
ity, the Irish can finish the season 
very impressively. 
The four Notre Dame wins over 
Northern Illinois ( 71-60), previ­
ously undefeated Michigan State 
(71-59), perennial national power 
]\1aryland ( 49-40) and Illinois­
Chicago (70-49) were all marked by 
a tight Irish defense which forced 
the losers into poor shooting nights. 
Maryland, for instance, was held 
to 12-percent shooting ( 3-of-26) in 
the first half in the game that was 
played in College Park. As a result, 
the Irish were able to move out to a 
26-7 halftime lead. The NCAA has no 
records for low scores, but the Terps 
seven-point explosion (with a 30­
" ... A man's reach 
should exceed 
his grasp, or.what's a heaven for?" 
····ROBERT BROWNING 

Sleelcase 1s lookmg for Contact us at your busmess, marketinq, placernent office on the date enqtntJenno or any shown below or write: Tim tntormatton systems Bolema. College Placement. gracluates whose vJston Steelc1se Inc.. P.O. Box 1967 exceeds the tmnzon We Grand Rapids, M! 49501. 
manutacture and market quality office turruture worldwtde. and can olter you a rewardtng tomorrow. r;F World'sleader 1n the manufactun11g o! office furmtvre. 
Steelcase interviews: January 29, 1985 
second shot clock) cannot be far from the Division I record. 
Maryland's poor shooting perfor­mance was not surprising. Through 13 games, the Irish have been able to hold opponents to a .404 field-goal percentage, one of the better marks in the nation. 
On the offensive end of the court, the Irish are benefiting from the play of forward Trena Keys. The 6-0 junior has become a major force all over the court, leading the Irish in playing time, scoring ( 15.7 ppfi:), rebounding (70) and blocked shots (22). She is also second on the team in steals ( 16) and fourth in assists (35). 
Keys' play over the break helped the Irish pick up some of the offen­sive slack that resulted from a tem­porary shooting slump py senior center Carrie Bates. Bates, whose scoring average dropped from 17.5 to 12.9 points per game during a four-game slump, lost her shooting touch suddenly but now appears to have regained it after hitting nine of her ten shots against Illinois­Chicago on Monday. 
Keys was not the only one to have an impressive break, however. Senior co-captains Laura Dougherty and Mary Beth Schueth have emerged from slow starts to play major roles on the court. Dougherty averaged 13 points per game to pro­vide the team with some badly needed outside shooting, while Schueth has once again emerged as Notre ·Dame's key rebounder, in­cludihg a 15-rebo~.;nd performance against Northern Illinois. 
Their increased contributions could not have come at a better time for the Irish who face three of their toughest North Star rivals on the road within a week of each other. Detroit is the first on the list as the team will travel to Calihan Hall on Saturday to take on the Titans. Loyola and DePaul will be welcom­ing Notre Dame next weekend. 
"The next three games will be a 
real indication about how good we 
really are," said DiStanislao. 
IRISH ITEMS -Two reserves, 
guard Vonnie Thompson and for­
ward Mickey Skieresz, have decided 
to transfer and are no longer on the 
roster Both Bates and Schueth 
went over the 1,000-point mark in 
their careers over the break. Bates 
scored her 1,OOOth against Michigan 
State, while Schueth reached the 
plateau against Southern Cal. Doug­
herty should also reach 1,000 points 
in the next few weeks. She has 
scored 967 points Schueth 
needs only 28 rebounds to become 
Notre Dame's all-time rebounding 
leader. Shari Matvey pulled down 
745 rebounds from 1979-83 
Notre Dame will not play another 
home game until February 1 when 
conference opponent Evansville 
visits the ACC. 


Brown's 23 beat Seton 
Associated Press 
SOUTH ORANGE, N.j. -Mike Brown scored 23 points and Wen­dell Alexis added 21 as seventh­ranked Syracuse handed Seton Hall its fifth straight loss, a 90-80 Big East Conference college basketball deci­sion last night. 
The victory gave the Orangemen a 3-1 conference mark and raised their overall record to 11-1. Seton Hall fell to 9-7 overall and 0-5 in the league. 
Syracuse enjoyed a 46-38 halftime edge, but Seton Hall cut the lead to 46-43 in the opening minute of the second half as Pirate center Ricky Burton scored five straight points. 
Seton Hall managed to close the gap to 50-48 on a three-point play by Andre McCloud, but the Orangemen ran off a 5-0 burst as Andre Hawkins hit a three-point play and Dwayne Washington added a basket off a fast break and Syracuse never looked back. 
The Observer 
Men 
continuedfrom page 20 
for that performance with an 8-of-9 mark from the free throw line. 
IRISH ITEMS Los Angeles Dodgers' manager Tom Lasorda at­t(·nded la~t night's game, as he was in town to attend a function of the Italian-American Foundation... 'Ibe Crusaders, who dropped to 4-10 with last night's loss, were plagued by racial problems in late Decem­ber. All four of the team's black players quit the tcam, citing racial tensions as the reason. Two, senior guards Jim Runcie and Larry Westbrook, have since been suspended by Blaney. One, fresh­man swingman Doug McCrory, has decided to transfer and has left the team. lbe other, senior center Wal­ter Coates, was later reinstated to the team and played la~t night, get­ting three points and three rebounds. Because of the loss ofper­sonnel, the Crusaders had only nine players in uniform la~t night... Joe Howard ha~ yet to practice with the team and will not play against DePaul. 


ND 63, Marquette 62 
Six seconds was all the time it took for David Rivers to race the lt-ngth of the court and hit a 12-foot jumper at the buzzer, giving the Irish a 63-6.2 win over Marquette at the Milwaukee Arena la~t Saturday. 'lbe shot capped a game-and career-high .24-point performance for the Irish freshman. 
Following Kerry Trotter's two free throws on a bonus situation with six seconds left, which gave the Warriors a 62-61 advantage, Mar­quette called a timeout to set its defense. With the five seconds al­most up, Rivers took the inbounds pa~s from Tim Kempton one foot from the baseline and started his beeline for the Notre Dame basket. With the help ofpicks from Ken Bar­low and Donald Royal, Rivers was able to get upcourt unmolested and put up his buzzer-beater. 
"I looked at the clock at about halfcourt and saw that there were still four seconds left," said a jubilant Rivers after the dramatic win. "I figured that by the time I got to the baseline there would be two seconds left. The play had been to get it to me and go. It was our last shot, our la-;t hope. I had to make it a good one. 'Ibis win is one dream come true." 
"We knew it would be Rivers; we told them it would be Rivers," said a very disappointed Marquette coach Rick Majerus. "We put our best de­fensive guy on him, Mandy Johnson, and Rivers just made a tough shot." 

Notre Dame had led 57-46 with ';:36 remaining, but Marquette ran off nine straight points when the Irish turned the ball over twice and forced up some bad shots. Rivers made two of his six straight free throws down the stretch to stop the Warrior spurt. but Marquette responded with five more points in a row to go up 60-59. 
Marquette center Tom Copa took a charge by Scott Hicks with I :34 remaining to give the Warriors the ball back. But 4'; seconds later War­

r 
rior freshman guard Michael Sims dr<>Ve the left baseline and charged 

t 
Hicks, and the Irish regained posses­
sion. 
With 32 seconds left, Rivers was fouled by Johnson, a teammate ofhis for one year at St. Anthony's High School in jersey City, N.J. After Rivers calmly sank both ends of the bonus, Marquette held the ball for a final shot. Johnson missed a shot with nine seconds left but Trotter was fouled by Jim Dolan going after the rebound. 
Trotter, not bothered by a Notre Dame timeout, connected on both free throws, setting the scene for the heroics of Rivers. 
------~~­

Thursday, January 17, 1984 -page 16 
"At the end, Rivers just took over the game," said Irish coach Digger Phelps. "He was in a real good gmove. We just let him go and he made the pressure shot." 
-]effBlumb 
Rice 73, ND 70 
A patient offense and steady free­
throw shooting down the stretch en­
abled a scrappy Rice Owl squad to 
down Notre Dame 73-70 on jan. 7 in 
Houston. 
Rice hit I7 of .22 from the line during the last five minutes of the game, deflating Irish hopes for a late rally. Notre Dame's foul parade failed to fluster Owl guard Ivan Pet­tit, who nailed 10 straight free throws in the final 2:41 to seal the victory in front of 4,817 at Autry Court. By the game's end, jim Dolan, Scott Hicks, Dan Duff, Ken Barlow and Donald Royal all had fouled out. 
The Irish grabbed an early lead on baskets by David Rivers and Tim Kempton, but senior forward Tony Barnett caught fire for Rice, hitting a jumper to tie the game at 13 with seven minutes gone in the first half, and the Owls never trailed again. 

Rice led by no more than five points throughout most of the game, and the Irish came back to tie the Owls six times. But Rice, taking ad­vantage ofthe clock and several Irish miscues, didn't allow Notre Dame to score more than four straight points at any time during the contest. 
"We had four opportunities with a tie score and a chance to take the lead, and we missed shots or turned it over every time. There's no excuse for it," said Digger Phelps. "Rice played very well. They made their free throws when they had to, and we didn't make our free throws. We were not flat; we just were not ready to play tonight." 
Rice coach Tommy Suitts knew he didn't want his squad running with the fleet Irish, and his double stack offense ate up more than a minute on the clock on several possessions. Apesky defense also denied the Irish the inside game, forcing long shots and giving the shorter Owls a 28-27 rebound advantage. And Notre Dame certainly didn't seem to get the benefit ofthe doubt on any ofthe referees' calls. 

With Domino's Pizza, choos-• ing your electives isn't easy. ' 
Because we've got so many fresh, mouthwatering. toppings. But once 
you make your ' 
choice, we'll custom .. make your pizza. And deliver it to your door, FREE. All in 30 minutes. Guaranteed. 
DOMINO'S 



PIZZA 

DELIVERSTM FREE. 

2n-21s1 
Plaza 23 Center 1835 South Bend Ave. South Bend 

But Phelps refused to look for black and white scapegoats. 
"We have to play better than th:.t. We can't use the refs a~ an excuse, and I refuse to use that as an excuse," said Phelps. 
Barnett finished with .22 points for Rice, and Pettit had 16. Freshman guard Michael Irving cut down the net for Rice after the game. 
Rivers led the Irish with 23, and Barlow added !4. 
-Mark Worscbeb 
ND 79, Davidson 62 
The Irish started off the New Year on a winning note with a convincing 79-62 victory over the Wildcats of Davidson College on Jan. 5 in the Charlotte Coliseum. Ken Barlow led a foursome oflrish scorers in double figures with 23 points. David Rivers scored I4 points, while Tim Kempton had I I and Scott Hicks added I 0, all in the first half. 
Each Notre Dame starter scored as the Irish took an early 20-71ead in the game, but Davidson climbed back to within five at 30-25 and then 34-29 with just over a minute to go in the half. After free throws by 





Now that 
D Pepperoni 
D Green Peppers 
D Mushrooms 
D Onions 
D Ham 
D Sausage 
D Ground Beef 
D Olives 
D Double Cheese 
D Extra Thick Crust 
D The Vegi™ 
5 items for the price of 4: 
Onions, Green Peppers, Mushrooms, 
Olives and Extra Cheese 
D Domino's Deluxe 5 items for the price of 4: Pepperoni, Mushrooms, Onions, Green Peppers and Sausage 
D The Price Destroyer™ 
Limited portions of 9 items for the price of 5: Pepperoni, Mushrooms, Onions, Green Peppers, Sausage, Ground Beef, Olives, Ham, and Extra Cheese 
Free Domino's Pizza Soft 
Flyer with any pizza pur­
chase. One coupon per pizza. 
Good while supplies last. 
Um~ed delivefy area. 
Fast, Free DeliveryTM 
Hicks and Kempton put the Irish up again by eight, 37-29, Wildcat guard Derek Rucker hit a shot from the top of the key with one second remain­ing to cut the Irish halftime lead to six. 
Rucker and guard Chris Ht:ineman both scored for Davidson as the Wildcats pulled to within two, 37-3';, to open the second half. But at that point the Irish started to get rolling, outscoring the Wildcats 18­7 over the next eight minutes to go up by 13. The Irish lead grew as high as 20 late in the game, as Notre Dame shot 63 percent in the second half to pull away. 
"We had some up and down 
spurts in this game," said Irish <:oach 
Digger Phelps. "But in the second 
half we moved Rivers to the wing 
against their zone and he hit about 
three in a row. That blows it out." 
Heineman led the Wildcats with 16 points, while Rucker chipped in with 12 and forward Gerry Born added eight points and 12 rebounds. 
-Marc Ramirez 
see CREIGHTON, page 13 

you've registered for your required courses, it's time to choose your electives. 
. ----------------------------------------­
The Observer Thursday,)anuary 17, 1984-page 17 
Casey joins Irish staff 
Bowen quits team, will transfer 
The Tony award winning musical, 'Ain't Misbehavin' from Daedalus productions in New York City is coming to Notre Dame! February 17, 1985 Any student interested in its orqanization call: 
Anne: 239-7757 ND SAD Ursula: 283-1264 DCAF Lisa: 284-5373 SMC SAD 
DON'T MISS IT! " February 17, 1985 0000000000000000000000000000000000 

USA TODAY 
$24.50 
all semester DORM DELIVERY 

For more info call JIM 283-2299 
Two wins and two los>es on the road over break left Notre Dame at 7-3. But other things were happen­ing besides the playing of games. John Bowen quit the team right after the Dec. 30 Creighton game and will transfer to another school. But while losing a player, the Irish gained a new coach in Don Casey, who will be a volunteer assistant. 
In addition, all players remained eligible academically, the first time that has happened in a number of years. Barry Spencer, who spent the first half of the season on the sidelines because of academic in­eligibility, got the okay to play from University administrators prior to the Creighton game, and has seen spot duty over the last five games. 
Bowen, a sophomor,e forward from Warren, Pa., cited a lack of playing time as his reason for leaving the team. He discussed the matter with Phelps following the Creighton game and it was decided that it would be best for him to transfer to a school where he could get more playing time. 
"John was unhappy with the situa­tion here," said Irish coach Phelps this week. "I think it's best for him to leave. He'll transfer wmewhere where he'll be able to play. I think it's just a case of him not waiting his turn." 
Bowen will finish out the aca­
demic year at Notre Dame before 
transferring. 

Casey, whose coaching experi­ence includes nine year~ at Temple as head coach and two years in the NBA as an assistant, joined the Irish basketball staff over breal• as a volun­teer assistant. A good friend of the Irish head coach, Casey was asked by Phelps to help out for the remainder ofthe season. 
"I've known Don for 20 years," said Phelps. "He's had some things turn against him and I just want to help him out, help him get through some things. He wanted to stay ac­tive in the profession and helping us out will let him do that. 
"I've got a great deal ofrespect for his abilities and his experience. He's very good for our staff. He will help 
"John was unhappy 
with the situation here. I think it's best for him to leave. He'll transfer somewhere where he'll be able to play. I think it's a case of him just not waiting his turn." 
-Digger Phelps 

us out in every phase of the game. He's been a head coach. He's been through it. He knows what goes on." 
Casey was an assistant with the San Diego Clippers of the NBA last season, and had been an assistant un­der Paul W esthead with the Chicago Bulls the season prior. 
He was 151-94 in nine seasons as head coach ofthe Owls. His 1978-79 Temple team finished 25-4, good enough to win the East Coast Con­ference and earn an NCAA tourna­ment bid. He has been honored as East Coast Conference Coach of the Year and has received district coach of the year recognition from the Na­tional Association of Basketball Coaches and the United States Bas­ketball Writers Association. 
Phelps had mixed emotions about his team's 2-2 record over break. While disappointed with the results of the Creighton and Rice games, he is optimistic about where the Irish seem to be heading now. 
"We should have won the Creighton and Rice games," said the Irish coach. "There's no excuse for our not winning them. The guys know it and I know it. We have no alibis and aren't looking for any. As a team we have to learn to go into situ­ations like Creighton and Rice and not let one or two calls or turnovers bother us. 
"I look at the Marquette win now as the spark to get us going now that we're home for two more games and heading into a power week with DePaul, Dayton, and Maryland." 
"The Marquette win was pivotal for us," added junior tri-captain Ken Barlow. "It gave us some confi­dence. We had been struggling ever since the (Dec. 8) DePaul game. It would have been devastating to lose that game." 
Phelps knows, though, that the Irish still have to improve on some areas of their game in order to be successful the rest of the season. 
"We're still not doing a good job getting the ball inside, although we did against Marquette," says Phelps. "That's because people on the wings aren't looking to get it inside. They have to get it inside. When we get it inside, we're a much better team." 
Fans should be able to gauge just how much the team has improved by Sunday's game with DePaul. 
~**************************)~*********************** ~ SOPHOMORES SOPHOMORES SOPHOMORES SOPHOMORES ~ 
~ ~ 
~ 1 SUPER E~OWL rl ~ t 8~ SUITCASE PARTY ~t~ t 
~ "Come As Your Fcrvorite Team" : 
~ ~ 
~ Win A Trip To nleSuper Bowl ~ 
~ 
~ for you and a guest 
: Trip includes: 
~ M~ 
~ Hotelaccomodations 49ers VS D~olphins 
~ Super Bowl tix (50yd. line) • Palo Alto 
~ $100 spending money 10 
~ per person ~ -L Rules for winner and guest 
~ • ~ 
: 1. Must be an ND sophomore 
~ 2. Must have paid $5 at the door 
* ~
* : ~ 
~ 

1f ~ ~ 
Party includes: : Food ~ 
Drinks ~ Music ~ Dancing: 
FUN ~ 

~  •  3. Musi have a suitcase with him or her  ~  
~  ~  
~  Friday, January 18 9-2am in Sotlth Dining Hall $5 admission  ~  
~  Non-Sophomores may attend party for $1 but are not eligible to attend the trip  ~  
~  The trip drawing will be after midnight. This allows timefor  ~  
~  sophomores to attend SUBURB,s concert  :  

*************************************************** 
The Observer lbursday,january 17, 1984-page 18 

Hockey team has rough time on East Coast swing 
By ED DOMANSKY 
Sports Writer 
'Jbe Notre Dame hockey team 

travelled to the East Coast over the 
holidays hoping to demonstrate that 
hockey is back in business under the 
Golden Dome. 
It became apparent, however, that 

although the program is back in ac­
tion on a varsity level, it will take 
more than just hard work from the 
present team members to be consis­
tently competitive with other 
recognized Division I powers. 
Notre Dame played with a relent­

less Irish spirit, but upon the trip's 
completion, the batttle-fatigued 
Irish returned to campus without a 
win to show for their efforts. 
"We knew that we'd have our hands full after the drop of varsity hockey in 1983," said Head Coach Lefty Smith. "But the best part was that we were able to expose the fact that Notre Dame hockey still exists. In that respect, we accomplished our goal." 
The first stop was january 2 for a contest with Princeton. Notre Dame surrendered six third period goals to aid the Tigers' 9-4 victory. 
On January 4 and 5 the Irish skated in the Phoenix Mutual Hockey Classic in Hartford, where they encountered their stiffest com­petition of this season. 
Yale, fresh off a tournament vic­tory in Alaska, handed Notre Dame a lO-S defeat in the opening round. 
'Jbt· Irish then dropped their tenth game of the season by an over­whelming 13-4 margin to the Red Raiders ofColgate in the consolation game. '!be 1.3 Colgate goals set a record for most goals against Notre Dame in one game. 
"It's pretty hard to compete against hockey powers with our existing program," said senior Tim Reilly. "It was rather evident that we 
lost most games due to lack ofdepth. 
With just a little more effort put into 
the program, I think we could make 
it more competitive." 
Hoping to gain some relief from the previous three encounters, the Irish ventured to Holy Cross for a January 7 meeting with the Division II Crusaders, the last stop on the trip. 
Unfortunately, Holy Cross spoiled the homecoming for Worcester native Bob Thebeau by skating away with a 9-6 victory in a sloppy, wide­open contest. Thebeau, however, didn't let his onlooking friends and family members down as he scored two goals, including the game's first tally. 
"It would have been nice to win this one," said Thebeau, who nearly missed the game due to a severely sprained wrist suffered against Yale. "It has been a rough trip. We've learned a lot. We have to play tough all the time." 
Tuesday night back home at the ACC, the Irish were looking to get back in the win column. But the Nanooks from Alaska-Fairbanks kept Notre Dame in its tailspin as they downed the Irish 6-4 before a crowd of 1,200. 
Notre Dame has Pow lost six straight games and its record has fal­len to 5-12. 
The road has not been a friendly place for the Irish, who are winless in eight tries away from the ACC. 
During the four-game trip, Notre Dame goalies Tim Lukenda, AI Haverkamp and Marc Guay saw plenty of rubber come flying their way. The Irish were outshot 175­104. 
And of course, with the vast num­ber of shots came the large number of opponent goals. In that depart­ment, Notre Dame saw the red light behind its own goal illuminated 41 times compared to just 19 times that 
shenanigans 
Notre Dome's S1ng1ng and Donong Ensemble 

2nd SEMESTER • AUDITIONS 
Thursday, 1/17/85 in 219 & 220 O'Shag 
All interested should sign-up for a time slot at the INFO desk in Lafortune (1st Floor lobby) or check in the Student Activities Office. 
Audition information can also be found in those places as well as some music. 
A sign-up Ust will be posted on Tuesday, 1/15 

We are looking for 5 bright, new faces! If you can sing and dance and enjoy travel and performing... Come chec s out! 
the Irish were able to get the puck into opposing nets. Co-captain Brent Chapman led 
Notre  Dame  scorers  on  the  East  
Coast.  He  tallied  five  times  and  
added  seven  assists.  Chapman's  

linemate, Reilly, likewise had five goals. He also chipped in with three assists. Thebeau added three goals and one assist to the Irish cause. 
The Tigers got their six goals in the final period to finish off Notre Dame. Four of the six goals came within five minutes ofeach other. 
When the Irish met Yale at Hartford they were facing a former teammate, netminder Mickey Kap­pele. Although Kappele earned the win, he was lifted after just two peri­ods after allowing four Notre Dame goals on just 13 shots. In the enire game, the Irish were able to fire only 17 shots, while the Elis found the mark SO times. 
Notre Dame trailed 3-2 after the opening period, but surrendered 
four more goals in the second stanza 
to fall behind 7-4. 

The consolation game went all in 
Colgate's favor. The Red Raiders led 
8-1 before the Irish were able to get 
on the scoreboard at the I0: I7 mark 
of the second period. Colgate added 
one more goal before the end of the 
second period. 

Thebeau eagerly awaited tne chance to show the hometown folks what he and his teammates could do when they came to Worcester. '!be Irish co-captain went to work quickly as he scored the game's first goal early in the first period which ended in a 2-2 stalemate. 
But it was the second period that led to the Notre Dame downfall. Holy Cross scored five times to take a 7-3lead. 
The two teams exchanged goals in the second period, and Fairbanks then added two more goals in the third period to seal the victory. 
Wbt JKniglJt& oftltt<!Iastlt 
•
Men's Hair Styling at its finest... ,.r· . . minutes from campus !
' ',, /.;'\·--~ . 

. $ OOHAIRCUTS 
. 

---~ Haircut,

f!1'j 
shampoo, 
272-0312 
& blowdry
277-1619 
rfl
'>455:\ rerrace Lane 
$8.50

(St lid 2_~) Acro~s from Martm's (hair must be shampooed day ofcut) 
We are only minutes from campus ! 
• 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• •
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 
•
•
•

I • • 
•
• 

r •
•
• 

l t ••• I I •••I • 
l • 
I • 
t • 
•...............................................•.............•.•...................................................•....: 

-------------------------------------------------------------~ 
~-~~----·----~------------1 
1 
I 
' 
' 






~c:tcJlC3l~--------------------------·-----------Th-u_r_sd_a_y_,J_a_nu_a_ry l-7,_1_9~8-4---pa_g_e_1_9
... 
Doonesbury 
JANATA, TaL Me. HJW£«5AR/61­llVt PIA577C 5UR­
(j{fJJ FR/)'r( 5RJ 
LANKA BAG A816 
THEJZ£5 ALOTOF IN7EJ?EST IN 8077-1 7T<ANSPLAN7'3 ANONEIAJ POliTICAL. lfY8Rf[)S. THt TRICK 15 70A5KFOF. &Na.JGH W/&'150 ITAPPMRS YOU 
!<NOlA/ fA/HAT '!WR& /JaNG. THAT"? WHY I REQU5T&O ' 1/MIIJ.ION. 
Tank McNamara 
Garry Trudeau 
-Campus _ 
ACTUAUY, I'VtAL.REAIJY Pft<FORMWA SIMILAR. OPfi<ATION ATHOM&ANIJ 
BRfJUGHT IT IN FOR. 
UNO&R.I3,000. 
""'­

Jeff Millar & Bill Hinds 

The Far Side Gary Larson 
6:00p.m. 
6:30p.m. 
7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10:00p.m. 
11:00p.m. 
11:30p.m. 
12:00a.m. 12:30a.m. 2:00a.m. 

45 Sea nymphs 51 Sand hills 47 Correct 52 Deepcut 48 Sandbag dam 53 Palo -,Cal. 49 Roman 54 Not with 
magistrate 58 Shell man 50 Irregularly 59 Matched notched collection 
Wednesday's Solution 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 35 Charity shows 63 Office phone 12 Slave 1 After awhile 37 Departure 
button 13 NY nine 5 -transit 38 Ball loss 64 Evaporates 18 Steno pad 10 Account entry 39 Cote denizens 65 Pipe joints 
squiggles 14 Pleasant 40 Gets drunk 23 Storm or bowl 15 Without peer 42 Obtuse 
25 Backs up 16 Win by a-43 Total 26 Undealt card 44 Genghis-stock 45 Sward DOWN 28 Bittern's
17 Extra tele· 
1 Anointold cousin
phones 
style

19 Fourth down 
2 Puts the 
play 
46 Rid of rodents kibosh on 30 Wallet fillers 
20 Protection 
21 Ring stone 22 Reasons out 24 Plantations  48 Kind of oil 52 Comedian's supplier 54 Of flying  3 Group of eight 4 Originally named 5 Spoke with a  31 Existence 32 Bristle 33 Leaf-stem angle  
burr  
26 Witness stand word 27 Garden plot 28 Tipping items 29 John­32 Strongboxes  55 Joanne ot movies 56 Century plant 57 Point after 11 D 60 Ollie's pal 61 Worn away 62 In addition  6 Pseudonym 7 Swimming spot 8 Lodge 9 Renegade 10 Computer feed 11 Gridiron score  34 3-pointer 35 Pay the bill 36 Pays attention 38 Intensified 41 Gumbo 42 Contributor  

........................
~ 

•  The SAB presents...  •  
:  WELCOME WEEK 1  :  
••  THURSDAY: Free Tubing at Bendix Woods -buses  4  
leave main circle at 7:30 pm  •  

FRIDAY: Dance party with the SUBURBS at Steoan • \ Center -8:00 pm tickets at the record store 4 
SATURDAY: Fr. Guido Sarducci at Washin~ton Hall 7:00 ~ 
+ and 9:00 shows -tickets at the record store "' 
SUNDAY: Snow Sculpture Contest on Field House Mall • judging and Prizes at 4:00 41 
•6:30 
p.m. -Auditions, Notre Dame Shenanigans, 219 O'Shaughnessy. 

•7 
p.m.-Commemorative Program, Celebrating Martin Luther King's Birthday, Sacred Heart Church, Sponsored by Black Cultural Arts Council. 

•7 
9 p.m. Presentation/Reception, Continental Illinois National Bank, For All MBA Students, Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services, Free. 

•8-10 
p.m. -Presentation/Reception, Geoeral Foods, For MBA, Econ., Fin. and Acct. Seniors, Uni­versity Club, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services, Free. 




TV Tonight 
16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBS Evening News 16 M*A*S*H 22 Three's Company 16 Barney Miller 22 WKRP In Cincinnati 16 Bill Cosby Show 22 Magnum,P1 28 Movie -Who Will Love My Children? 34 34 Front 16 Family Ties 16 Cheers 
22 Simon & Simon 34 Mystery 16 Night Court 16 Hill Street Blues 22 Knots Landing 28 20/20 34 Masterpiece Theatre 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 Movie-Farewell To Arms 16 Tonight Show 22 Newhart/Movie · A Big Hand For a 
Uttle Lady 28 ABC News Nightlin~ 28 Love Connection 16 Late Night With David Letterman 22 Nightwatch


·The ND S.A.B. presents ... 

COLUMBIA PICTURES PRESENTS AN IVAN REITMAN FILM 
BILL MURRAYrN STRIPES 
~ 

• Engineering Auditorium 
l 4 

• $1.00 admission 
~ 

•Thursday, Jan. 17,7:00,9:00 & 11:00 1 
I 

: +++++++++++++++++++++++41ihmi?l~~~~~~~~~~~m;;:~~~~ 
Notre Dame wins homecoming game  
after splitting last four road contests  
ByJEFF BLUMB Assistant Sports Editor  gin as the second session continued, at one point blowing it out to 36 at 88-'i2. Ken Barlow paced the Notre Dame attack  
,.  't  It may not have been the most exciting win in Notre Dame basketball history. In fact, it probably ranks right among the most boring, save for a few dazzling passes by David Rivers. But last night's 96-61 Notre Dame win over Holy Cross at the ACC showed the 8·3 Irish to be in top form as they head into Sunday's key battle with DePaul.  with 17 points on 8-of-16 shooting from the field. Rivers chipped in I 'i points of hb own, hitting 6-of-7 shots. More important · and more exciting to the crowd · were the floor general's nine assists. Dolan also rt:turned to form after an off-day against Marquette. The junior tri-captain was 4-of-'i from both the field and line for 12 total  
<:,{'  4  ~  Notre Dame completely dominated the visitors from Worcester, Mass., outrebound­ing them 53·25 in addition to the 35-point margin ofvictory. The Irish got the Crusaders to run with them · and Holy Cross dearly  points. Ifanything, the win provided Phelps the op­portunity to give some ofhis rt:serves needed playing time. Freshman Gary Voce got into the game and turned in 20 impressive minutes,  
regretted trying to do so.  
"(Notre Dame coach) Digger (Phelps) got the tempo up and we don't have the man·  Results  
power  to  play  that way," said  Ho1y  Cross  
coach George Blaney. "We're not supposed to shoot jump shots as quick as we did against  Creighton 60, Notre Dame 58  
RIS  their zone. We just didn't have any discipline tonight." "Our running game was a little too mul·h tor them to handle," echoed Phelps. "We took over the boards and were able to force Holy Cross to play the game we wanted them to  Notre Dame 79, Davidson 62 Rice 73, Notre Dame 70 Notre Dame 63, Marquette 62 INotre Dame 96, Holy Cross 61/  
play."  
Holy Cross managed early leads of 2-0, .f-2,  throwing in I 0 point:, and pulling down ~ix  
and 6-4, and was even able to tie the game at  rebounds. Jeff Peters added five  points in  
12. But that was the point in the game when  seven minutes, while Barry Spencer, just off  
the Notre Dame offense hit high gear. The  academic ineligibility, put in six points of his  
Irish proceeded to roll offnine straight points,  own in five minutes played.  
inflating their lead to 21-12. By the half the  Brian  Reale  was  high-point  man  for  the  
margin had grown to 16 at 44-28.  Crusaders with 17. Holy cross' leading scorer,  
"Holy Cross got a little flat once we jumped  Jim McCaffrey, who brought a  17.2 average  
J"he Ob server/Vic Guarino  out," added Phelps.  into the game, had a miserable shooting night,  
Freshman guard David Rivers thrilled  the ACC crowd with some  Still, the real explosion was yet to come.  connecting on only 2-of-1 5 shots, including  
niftypasses in last night's Irish victory ov erHoly Cross. The flashy  Notre Dame rattled off the first 12 points of  0-of-8 in the first half. He somewhat made up  
point guard bad nine assists to go with  his 15 points. jeffBlumb  the half to  take  a  56-28 advantage,  as Jim  
details the game at right and a review oBreak actionfollows.  fNotre Dame's Christmas  Dolan began and ended the surge with bas­. kets. The Irish continued to extend the mar·  see MEN, page 16  

J 
Thursday, January 17, 1984-page 20

S~orts 
Irish run wild in 96-61 rout of Crusaders at ACC 
Women's basketball team wins four over break 
Keys, Dougherty, Schueth lead Irish through difficult seven-game stretch 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 

evaluating her team's performance. "We are 
Sports Edttur 

starting to evolve as a very good defensive team, possibly the best we've ever had. We The Notre Dame women's basketball team 
just need to work on not beating ourselves." probably traveled enough miles over the se­That may be easier said than done, but the mester brc:ak to qualify for a Frequent Flyer 
Irish did show over break that they can be discount as it journeyc:d from coast to coast to 
competitive with any team in the country play seven games, hut, despite all the mileage, when they play well. For instance, against the Irish season has not even reached the mid­
two-time defending national champion South· point. 
ern Cal and the Trojans' starplayer Cheryl Mil· A I 'i·game North Star Conference schedule 
ler, Notre Dame was able to stay even with its begins Saturday for Mary DiStanislao's squad 
hosts before its 38-percent shooting and Mil· 
which sometimes romped, sometimes ler's brutal play under the basket ( 21 struggled through a 4-3 break. With the over· rebounds) allowed the Trojans to pull away all rc:cord standing at 7-6, the Irish will need a 
for a 69-53 win. good conference performance to make the "I think our game plan was executed pr'etty 1984-8'i season a successful one. 
well against USC," said DiStanislao. "We If Notre Dame continues to perform as it played hard and I'd like to think we could have did over the past few weeks, a good showing 
been able to control our own fate, but some in the conference is a distinct possibility. AI· missed shots and missed block-outs really though the 4-3 record which featured losses 
hurt us. There were a few critical calls by the to UCLA, Southern Cal and LaSalle is mediocre 
officials, hut they really didn't have any at best, the team frequently played well 
bearing on the outcome." against the hardest part ofits schedule. 
In what was the most disappointing defeat, 
•1 saw some good things," said DiStanislao, 
however, many spectators felt that the of­who usually is pretty tough when it comes to • 
ficiating decided the game. LaSalle defeated 

Results 

Notre Dame 71, N. Illinois 60 Notre Dame 71, MSU 59 UCLA 78, Notre Dame 51 USC 69, Notre Dame 53 Lasalle 71, Notre Dame 66 Notre Dame 49, Maryland 40 NO 70,111inois-Chicago 49 
the Irish, 71-66, in tiny Hayman Hall in Philadelphia hy going to the foul line 38 times . 2'i more times than the Irish who were whistled for 29 fouls and had three players foul out. Aside from the foul problems, though, the Irish also hurt themselves by com· mining 25 turnovers. 
"We had seven more field goals and 11 more rebounds, but even in that game we hurt ourselves," explained DiStanislao. "We missed too many close shots and too many chances at three-point plays." 
see WOMEN, page 15 









