
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa · Police using whips and tear gas broke up candlelight vigils for im­prisoned anti-apanheid activists and dispersed thousands of mourners at a black girl's funeral, witnesses said yesterday. 
National police headquarters in Pretoria reported stone-throwing and gasoline bombings late Wednes­day and early yesterday in most of the sprawling mixed-race townships east of Cape Town. 
A spokesman denied charges that riot patrols broke up the candlelight services Wednesday night without provocation. He said the gatherings were illegal and that police moved in after their warnings were ignored. 
Black activist Winnie Mandela, wife of jailed guerrilla leader Nelson Mandela, entered a clinic in Johan­nesburg for a stay ofseveral days be­cause ofexhaustion, a family source said. 
Mandela, 50, had been through several tense weeks after her hus­band, 6'. had prostate surgery and persistent rumors spread of his im­pending release after more than two decades in prison. 
Awitness said police fired tear gas yesterday morning to scatter ap­proximately 5,000 mourners at the funeral of an 18-year-old girl shot dead by police last week in Soweto, the huge black township nearJohan­nesburg. 
Police said they warned the crowd that the gathering violated state of emergency rules limiting funeral attendance to 50 people. 
Most mourners regrouped after the initial charge and the service went on, but police returned and fired more tear gas canisters to drive the mourners away from the dead girl's home, the witness said, speak­ing on condition ofanonymity. 
In other Soweto incidents, an of­ficer was seriously wounded by a hand grenade and a school was damaged in an arson attack, police reported. It was the second grenade attack in two days on a police patrol in the township. 
National police headquarters said there were no deaths in the violence yesterday. Three people were reported killed Tuesday and Wed­nesday in Cape Province. 
Approximately 900 people have 
see BURIAL, page 3 
-----~----------------------------­
Inside: Happenings 
ND, the snowman 
Alumni Hall residents (left to right) Chris Weppner, Rob Brantman, Mike Keegan, jim Gero, Paul Christmann and Mike Brcik pose with their 



Candidate for Congress Iria promises to confront issues 
By PEGGY PROSSER 
StaffReporter 
Democratic candidate Georgia !ria, currently competing against Senator Dan Quayle for a Congres­sional seat, said she will confront issues directly in her Indiana cam­paign. 
"I feel very strongly about these issues. They aren't being addressed by politicians of today," !ria said in her speech last night in Lafortune Student Center. 
.She is running on the Lyndon Larouche ticket, one which she said eventually will have a person run­ning in every district in the state, and in every state election. 
"Quayle doesn't discuss the issues at all, and won't even talk to me when I try to get in touch with him," she said. 
!ria said she feels she is qualified to succeed Quayle because she "has the guts to run." 
She expressed anger at the U.S. at­torney general, who "slapped the wrists" of the Boston Bank heads in­dicted for laundering money. She said her goal is to go after those in­volved in laundering operations, seize the money and use it to pay off the national.debt. 
"It's given bankers complete con­trol. When this country was formed, the moral issue was the inalienable rights of man. This has got to be saved." 
The Strategic Defense Initiative, she said, has been squashed by those in government. 
Critical ofthe educalional system, lria said that it makes robots of people who care little about society. 
"Our goal is to make everyone white collar workers. Why should man labor when technology can do it for him?" 
"This generation is immoral. It's the me generation:· Students today don't care about what is good for humanity." 
!ria also criticized what is being taught in the nation's colleges, saying that Marxist philosophy is a waste oftime, as are the teachings of most philosophers. 
"We can't destroy what is now being taught, so we have to create better colleges. 
"Actually, we have to start early in the schools ifwe ever want to catch up to other nations. Geometry should be taught in the first grade, and the arts should be stressed even earlier. Where we went wrong was the humanities. They are a complete waste of time,'' she said. 
Iria said she believes AIDS should be treated as every other com­municable disease such as tuber­culosis and leprosy. She passed out bumper stickers that read, "AIDS is a gift ofthe Fairies." 
Iria said she believes the American press is controlled com­pletely by "The Eastern Establish­ment," which is run by a larger Trilateral Commission, who she said has been involved with drugs for many years. 



5,000 to walk across United States in 9-month march for world peace 
By PEGGY PROSSER Gary Hart, Mixner has raised J3 mil­have responded is amazing. Doctors, StaffReporter lion in the last six months and placed lawyers and college professors are seven regional offices across the just dropping everything for nine 
Five thousand people will leave country. months just to join us," said Moore. their colleges, homes, jobs and Each region has its own group of Bill Healy, Notre Dame student families on March I to form the representatives, sent out to colleges body president, has endorsed the Great Peace March of 1986. to recruit students to participate. march, saying, "It's promoting and 
The nine-month march for peace, "It's a major commitment to leave getting people aware of the nuclear whose purpose is to bring about school, but you're young, you're arms issue. That's why I think it's a nuclear disarmament around the single, this is the time to do it. great idea." world, will begin in Los Angeles and "Just think about it, 20 years from Notre Dame student Felicia Leon span to Washington, D.C. now, you'll look back on this and is considering the trip, but is 
The marchers plan to call on the think, 'I did it, I walked across the hesitant to leave school the second 
i 
nation's leaders to make bilateral country for peace,' " said Schmidt. semester ofher senior year. 
1
nuclear disarmament a reality and Students participating in the "I'm seriously thinking about it, inspire other citizens ofthe world to march can earn college credit but there's no one here to really sup­I Ichange the course of history, said through the "College on Foot" port me, " said Leon. 
1
Carol Schmidt, a representative of program. By participating in educa­Celebrity supporters ofthe march 
'IlK Ob..011ervcr/Jam~s Carroll 

Pro-Peace, the organization spon­tional programs and doing an in­include actor!> Paul Newman, Robert
Christmas Cheer 
soring the march. dependent study, students may earn Redford and Tom Cruise; singers 
juniors (left to right) Vicky Proud and Mary Hope Doran make 

Schmidt spoke on campus yester­credit toward their college degree. Madonna, Barbara Streisand and 
their annual visit to Santa ljim Domagalski) at thejunior Class 
day, explaining the history of Response to the recruiting effort Jackson Browne. Many of them will 
Christmas Party last night, while the horse which drove the sleigh 
Pro-Peace, the purpose for the has been overwhelming, said appear in concerts or road shows 
looks on. Alsofeatured at theparty was a showing of"The Grinch 
march and the goals of its founder, Melody Moore, Regional Organizer along the march route. 
Who Stole Christmas" along with music and refreshments. 
David Mixner. for Pro-Peace. 
see MARCH, page 4 A former consultant to Senator "The (number of) people that 


The Observer Friday, December 6, 1985 -page 2 


A Notre Dame freshman remained in stable con­dition at St. joseph's Medical Center last night after sustaining in­juries to both eyes during the annual snowball fight Monday night, according to a St. joseph's nurse. Kevin Mochen, whose left eye hemorrhaged after being hit by a snowball, is "doing fine" and probably will be released today or tomorrow, she said. "I don't think he's going to have any problems," the nurse added. Although it's his left eye that is bandaged, Moehen also is having difficulty seeing out of his right eye, according to Father Matthew Miceli, Cavanaugh Hall's rector. "When I went to visit him, he didn't even know I was in the room," Miceli said. "Students have to go over there and read his lessons to him." -The Obseroer 
An OffiCial WOrld record has been set by Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. On Wednesday, Dec. 4, Maris Caulkers of Guinness Corporation in New York officially confirmed that the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community broke the world record for musical chairs with 5,1 51 participants. It will be printed In the next edition of the Guinness book. -The Obseroer 


Of Interest 
A fireside chat concerning reflections on the events of Minority Awareness Week will take place tonight at 7 in the Black Cultural Arts Centeron the second floor ofLaFortune.-The Obseroer 
A Spanish Mass for the Feast ofOur lady ofGuadalupe will be celebrated by University President Father Theodore Hes­burgh Sunday morning at 11 In the Farley Hall Chapel. A chili lunch will follow in the Center for Social Concerns. Donations of S1.50 for adults and 50 cents for children are asked for the lunch. ·The Obser­ver 
The Advent Concert will be presented by the Notre Dame Chorale and the Notre Dame Brass Ensemble on Sunday in Sacred Heart Church at 8 p.m. The concert will feature works by Vivaldi, Bach, Gabrielli, and Gallus, as well as festival Christmas hymns with audience participation. · The Obseroer 
Dimensions injazz, the annual concert performed by the Notre Dame jazz Bands, will be presented Friday at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. Two big jazz bands and a combo will perform a varied program of current big band jazz fare under the direction of Father George Wiskirchen and Randy O'Keefe. Admission is free.· 
The Obseroer 
A Christmas Service of Lessons and Carols will take place Sunday night at 8 in the Church of Loretto at Saint Mary's. The ND/SMC Collegiate Choir and Saint Mary's Women's Choir will per­form works by Vaughn Williams, john Mathias andjohn Rutter. The concert is free and open to the public. · The Obseroer 
Notre Dame's Air Force ROTC detachment will hold its annual formal military dinner, the Dining-In, tonight at 7 in the ACC Monogram Room. Major General Larry Tibbets, Deputy ChiefofStafffor Technical Training of the U.S. Air Force's Air Train­ing Command, will be the keynote speaker during the formal portion of the program -The Obseroer 

Weather 
----.. ,
Even the Grinch won't have 
I 
much to complain about today, as the winter season continues. Partly sunny and cold today with a high around 30. Clear and cold tonight. Low in the lower 20s. Mostly sunny and not as cold tomorrow with a high in the middle 30s. ­
AP 

Design Editor ................. Maureen Murphy IJeslgn Aulstant............... Md15sa Warnkr TyfJfJSetlers ..•••..••....••...•...... M.E. Harrington News Editor..............................jane Kravcik Copy Editor.................... Cindy Rauckhorsl Sports Copy Editor..... .... Mike Szymanski Viewpoint Copy Editor........... Miriam HW VIewpoint Layout................... Rob Bartolo Accent Copy Editor .................. Sam Moore Accent Layout .......................... Tom Crowe Accent Special Layout ........ uura Gronek 
The Obtlc:~r ( t·s~ W9 l··IIKJO) is published Monday lhrough Friday excepl during exam and vacauon period• The Obtlc:~r is publism,d by lhe slu<kniSohhe llniversily of Nmre Dame and ~ami Mary"s College Subscriplions may be: purcha..-d for J30 per ~·cor ( Jltl per "'m<",lc-r) b)· wnung The Obsnver, P.O. Box Q. Noire-Dame. Indiana 
f6~t;(l 
The O!Merver " a mc-mb(,r of The AMoclated ~>reM. AU reproduclion righiS are 
rcvr\'C'll 
ND Day Editor........................ Lynne Sttand SMC Day Editor............................... MJ Sully AdDesign ................ ....jeanne Grammens Michele Martin jessa Pes1a Tom Biafure Typists ......•.••........................•...Tess Guarino Maura McKeever Mary Ellen Harrlnglon Photographer ........................ , ....jim Carroll 




The annual snowballs flew, but I wasn't there 
They say I don't know what I'm talking about. 
I wasn't there. I didn't see it with my own eyes. 
I didn't see thousands of Notre Dame students run­ning around campus Monday night in the heat of what they call "The Civil War." I don't really know what it means to take part in the battle between the North and the South. I don't know what it feels like to be caught up 
in the sheer ecstasy of a full-fledged, give-it-all-you've­got, don't-hold-anything-back, pretend-that-you're-a­kid-again, great big snowball fight. I just don't know what it's like at all. 
Somewhere between 30 and 60 rooms have cardboard windows now. I saw a kid in the dining hall with snow-white gauze on his swollen, pink arm. They still don't know if they got all of the glass out of it. I haven't seen the person with the serious eye injury or the one with the broken arm, but Security has assured us that those injuries occurred. 
People all over campus 

were talking about it on And 1 know that the main­Tuesday. Those with in­tenance department is juries told "war stories." I planning to spend between felt so left out. "What hap­S900 and Sl,OOO to fix pened?" I asked. "Don't you broken windows in at least know?" they laughed. five halls this week. 
"It was great," they said. I'm not sure where I was "We took 'em by surprise when all ofthis was going on and we got 'em really good Monday night. 1 know I was but then they came after us studying for awhile, and and somehow we got then I went out to act silly in separated and then they got the snow. A couple of my me all alone and It· was friends went out with me, pretty unfair 'cause they had ;md we slid along the all those guys and it was just sidewalks and rolled in the me but I got away and I lived snow together. And we to tell about it and then chased each other and we when we came back here laughed, but we didn't have they followed us and I guess any fun. We didn't break any 
they figured out which 

room we were in 'cause they started shooting for it but 
we had more ammunition inside but then they hit the 
window I guess 'cause there was glass everywhere and 
then my arm started bleeding and Security said they 
couldn't take me to the hospital yet because they were 
out trying to stop the snowball fight so there was not­
hing I could do..." 

"So you got hurt in a snowball fight..." "It wasn't a snowball fight; it was Notre Dame's an­nual civil war, and we won!" 
One of the combatants said that the South won because there was more shattered glass on the North Quad than on the South. Never mind that the glass wound up in chapels, dorm rooms and bathrooms. After all, it's hard to find the glass unless you take the time to search with the tender part ofyour foot. And the draft in the bathroom isn't very bad unless you like to take warm showers. 
It's a tradition. I mean, that's what they told me. Sort 

Phil Wolf 

Copy Chief 
of an annual rekindling of that old Notre Dame spirit." Like last year when we had food fights in the dining halls after football games. Or the year before that when we threw beer cans all over the floor of the Administration Building. Now, that was great, I heard. But I wasn't there. I didn't see it. 
All I know is that armed security officers started to appear in the dining hall to keep us in line after games, and everybody complained about that. And the alcohol policy still remains, despite the litter in the Administra­
tion Building. 


l



Campus 

H . C( ft 
~ ~ 
Look Good Feel Good Ptoce.. 
284-5363 
windows. Or bones. 

Not only did 1somehow miss out on the real fun Mon­day night, but now I hear somebody is saying that Notre Dame students are idiots. Another person said that we are not mature or prudent. And they aren't some of those terrible outsiders who are saying that; they are some ofour own. One says that we shouldn't go out and have fun in the snow. He even says we should get kicked out ofschool for it. 
I guess he is mad about something that somebody did Monday night. Or maybe he's just not a good sport. I don't think he really means that we shouldn't have fun in the snow like so many people did Monday night. 
I'm sure it wasn't as bad as some people are saying. I'm sure there wasn't very much broken glass or very many bloody arms. I'm sure that everybody was just having a little fun in the snow. Like we all did when we were little kids. I'm sure nobody was out to do anything bad. I'm sure nobody wanted to hurt anybody. 
But then again, I wasn't there. 
--~-~~-IS-~-1:)-~&I:)..a.l:>-~.,...ll>..,.ll>.-ll>..,.~-ll>.,...!l>.,...~.....ll>"".!l>"""C.""'"C."".C.""'"C..-c..,...c..,...c..,.. C.a.C.a!l>-C.a.ll>.....C..-c...,.~" 
C 0 ND/SMC Theatre Presents Hay Fever bv C 0 
f Noel Coward ~
' ~ 
~ A Delightfully Frivolous Comedy ' 
"' 0 O'Laughlin Auditorium Student Tickets $4.00 "' 0 « December5,6,7,12,13,14 MaybepurchasedatDoor ~ 
0 0 
~ At 8:10P.M. Or Reserved by calling the ~ t Box Office at 284-4626 b 
~c...-c...-.c..-c..,...c.,ao.C.,ao.ll>,ao.!l>,ao !l>,ao.C.,ao c...,.c...,.c...,.~-~-l:>-~..,.l:>..,.c..-~:>,ao.ll>..,.l:>-l:>..,.C>w=.l:>,ao.l:>,ao.ll>..,.c...,.t>..,.c...,.t>,ao.C.,ao.O>..,.c. 0 



THANKYOU 
to all who have made 
Hair Crafters' debut at Saint Mary's a success. We appre­ciate your support and we invite you to stop in for a visit anytime. 
Mon.·Thurs. 9·8 
l'rl. 9-6 

Sat. 10.4 

The Observer Friday, December 6, 1985 -page 3 

Theismwm. the month-old polar bear cub at 

the San Diego Zoo, is burped by tbe nursery atten­
dant after his feeding. Theismann, who bas two 


Reagan urged to reform tax code 
Associated Press promised," O'Neill, D-Mass., told 
reporters. 

WASHINGTON · House Speaker Despite Reagan's renewed plea Thomas P. O'Neill Jr. called on Presi­for action, tax overhaul appears to dent Reagan yesterday to make the be floundering in the House of same strong effort for the drive to Representatives. overhaul the federal tax code that Republican leaders are openly at Reagan made in 1981 on behalf of odds with the president while cutting tax rates. Democrats say stronger suppon 
from Reagan and GOP votes will be 

"The president needs to lobby crucial to keeping the tax overhaul just as hard if we are to accomplish initiative from dying. the historic, bipartisan overhaul in Hours after House Republicans the tax system that he has aweed Wednesday to oppose a tax overhaul bill drafted by the Democratic-led Ways and Means Committee, the president issued a statement vaguely supponing the Democratic measure as well as ack­nowledging a GOP effon to draft an alternative. 
O'Neill, though, said, he was "not at all" happy with Reagan's state­ment. 
"In 1981, we learned what Presi­dent Reagan can do on behalf of a legislative objective," O'Neill said. 

Government to resume purge of disability rolls 
AssocJated Press 
WASHINGTON -Still smarting from the bruising it took in its first attempt, the government said yes­terday it will resume culling Social Security disability rolls of people who have become physically able to hold jobs. 
But it said it will use a scalpel, not a meat cleaver, in its new approach to evaluating the medical condition ofsome 2.6 million people now clas­sified as physically disabled and unable to work. The program begins next month. 
New federal regulations will re­quire proofofmedical improvement before disability benefit checks can be cut off. And Social Security says more thorough reviews coupled with a personal approach, including face-to-face interviews, should ease the trauma for disabled people worried about their benefits. 
Health and Human Services Secretary Margaret Heckler said the new procedures were developed after months ofreview and consulta­tion with affected groups who were sharply critical ofthe first attempt at reviewing the disability rolls. 
"We have worked diligently with 


It\f(ILJ.Vt · h""en wantmg the Arnencan 
Li:l,rPss Cud for some t1me. th1s 1s some 
Because if you're a senior, all you need is to accept a $10,000 career-oriented job. 
Thc~t"s 11 No stnn']s No gummcks 
(And even 1f you don t have a JOb nqht 
Il· ··.-.· 'loll't ·.vorry Th1s offer is still good for 1:~ rrl·Ilt!Js dfter you araduate) Why iS t\::l~··!tc:dn E:·:pu-·.:;s rnakmq the Card il can help m a lot of ways as you graduate. The Card can help you be ready for busi­ness. It's a must for travel to meetmgs and entertaining. And to entertain yourself, you can use it to buy a new wardrobe for work or a new stereo. 

The Card can also help you establish your credit history. which can help in your future. 
So call l-800-THE-CARD and ask to have 
iit! it' P· iSH 'I kH SPll!OrS 10 qef? 
a Special Student ApplicatiOn sent 
Well t'·' put II simply, we be­to you Or look for one on campus lI• ·\ t ·In your future And this IS The American Express Card. .1 'l' lOd II!llr>·to show It for we Don't leave school without it.5
M 
all segments of the public in developing regulations that ensure a consistent disability program nationwide," Heckler said in a state­ment. "This administration has long recognized the need for making this program more humane and compas­sionate." 
Congress first ordered the review in 1980 after the General Account­ing Office estimated that more than 500,000 people receiving disability checks were physically capable of holding jobs. 
HHS began the job in 1981, but it soon was engulfed by protests that truly disabled people were being chopped from the rolls unfairly. 
Of the first 1.2 million people reviewed, 491,000 were ordered cut off from benefits. Appeals restored benefits to almost 291,000 of those people. Lawsuits involving some 69,000 cases are pending. 
Lobbying groups for beneficiaries, and their congressional supporters, said people were being dropped from the rolls after only a cursory review of medical records, often without an opponunity to argue their case and in some cases without being allowed to present additional medical documents. 
Cancer news c.auses deluge of callers 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -News of a promising new cancer treatment at the National Cancer Institute prompted a flood of calls to the federal .:enter yesterday from people desperate for a cure. 
"What they're saying is, our mot­her, our brother, our sister is dying at this very moment. We have not­hing to lose. We want to be a can­didate," said Carol Case, the institute's chiefofpublic inquiries. 
"Our 800 (telephone) numbers are jammed this morning," said Paul Van Nevel, the institute's associate director for communications. 
The callers want information about a new treatment, called adoptive immunotherapy, that turns ordinary white blood cells into "killer cells" that attack malignant tumors. 


Burial 
continuedjrompage 1 
died in more than 15 months of rioting against apanheid, the race laws with which the government preserves privikge for SouthAfrica's five million whites and denies rights to the 24 million blacks. Nearly all the victims have been black. 
The Reverend Allan Boesak, a leading mixed-race cleric, said he led a candlelight vigil Wednesday night at his church in Bellville South, outside Cape Town. Some ofthe 700 people who attended went outside and were hit by tear gas from an armored police vehicle across the street, he said. 
"I just think the South African police once again have shown them­selves to be the pigs that the people think that they are," said Boesak, who faces subversion charges and is free on bail. "There is absolutely no excuse for what happened here." 
Lieutenant Attie Laubscher, the Cape Town police spokesman, said approximately 200 people gathered outside Boesak's church and "police asked them to disperse. 

100 c.tlr,........ 251-1241 
SO's & 60'B MuBIC 
OPEN 7 DAYI AWEEK AT 7 P.M. 

~---------~ 
-------------------~--------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Friday, December 6, 1985 -page 4 
American conducts mock 'Mass' to protest lack of women priests 
VATICAN CllY · An American Roman Catholic nurse conducted a mock Mass in St. Peter's Basilica on Wednesday "to dramatize the plight of all women who want to become priests but cannot because of the church's discrimination." 
A vatican official called it an "act 
ofstupidity" that "does not prove or 
enhance anything." He spoke on 
condition ofanonymity. 
Babi Burke of Fon Lauderdale, Fla., approached the Altar of the Throne of St. Peter in the rear apse with a lighted alcohol lamp and kissed the altar. She blessed herself with a sign of the cross, then spread her arms in a priestly gesture of welcome, slowly raised a wafer, 
consumed it and raised a silver chalice. 
"Oh, she is beautiful, just beauti· ful. She is finally saying Mass," shouted her colleague, Marie-Terese Sonmoy, a former nun from Bel­glum. She applauded as she watched Burke along with several otherspec­tators, including four journalists. 
When she entered St. Peter's, the largest church in Christendom, 
Kennedy son a candidate for Congress 
BOSTON · Flashing a familiar smile, Joseph Kennedy II made his political debut Wednesday, declar­ing he will run for the seat in Congress once held by his uncle 
John so that he can "fight for the rights ofordinary people." 
The 33-year-old son of the late Senator Roben Kennedy became an instant front-runner in a crowded field for the 8th District's Democratic primary next Septem­ber. The seat now is held by House Speaker Thomas "Tip" O'Nelll Jr., who is retiring after 17 terms. 
"This is Joe Kennedy running for 
office. . . and no other member of 
my family," he emphasized at a 
packed news conference, adding 
that he would welcome suppon 
from his uncle, Senator Edward Ken­
nedy, D-Mass., and his many brot· 
hers, sisters and cousins. 
''I'd like to go to Washington, D.C., because I think we can use the government as a catalyst," Kennedy said. 
He attacked President Reagan for military spending that he said has created a "huge federal deficit." 
"The days of taxing and spending are gone. We need to find new ways of creating wealth," Kennedy declared, calling for a more efficient federal government. 



March 
continuedfrom page I 
Those who march will stay in a predetermined "Campscape" each night. The areas have been selected for their accessible facilities, to provide the marchers with daily showers, laundry facilities, banks, stores, post office and day care center. 
The cost per marcher has been set at S3,200, paid for by sponsors and scholarships. Both Schmidt and Moore stressed that no marcher will be denied because of lack of finances. 
To take part in the march, those interested must submit an applica­tion, have a physical examination and be interviewed by a member of the Pro-Peace stalf. 
For more information, contact Sara Webb PhilJips at the Center for Social Concerns. 

Burke was dressed in a flowing black Wednesday and blessed the altar, 
dress embroidered with golden then two Vatican guards rushed up 
threads that resembled clerical garb, and took her from the basilica to the 
a knitted grayish skull cap and white Holy See's security headquaners. 
shawl. The mock service lasted ap· 
When she appeared in the apse, proximately five minutes. 
behind the modern bronze altar fas­Guards also took Sonmoy away. 
hioned by American sculptor Albert Vatican spokesman Joaquin Navarro 
Friscia, she had over her neck a long said both women were released 
later.

She•••slowly 
In a written statement distributed to reporters later, Burke described
raised a wafer, her action as "a shon prayer of 
profession for the love of God and

consumed it and 
the church." "It's a frank acknowledgment r.hat

raised a silver 
there exists a crisis in Catholicism," the statement said. "Vatican II

chalice. 

declared that all discriminadon off-white stole of the type normally based on sex, race, and class be el!'ad­worn by priests when celebrating icated and is contrary to the will of Mass. On the wall behind her was a God. Sexism is a sacrilege to the bronze chair that tradition holds Gospel ofChrist." belonged to St. Peter, considered by She said the extraordinary synod the church as the first pope. of 165 bishops now being con· 
On Saturday, the two women in­ducted at the VatiGm does not in­terrupted a Vatican news con­clude any women with voting rights. ference with a call on the church to PopeJohn Paul II convened the two­end "all discrimination based on week assembly, which began I 0 race, social class or sex." days ago, to assess the impact of the 
Burke, who is 44 and has four Second Vatican Council of 1962-65, children, drank from the chalice also called Vatican II. 
i 12~ Medium PIZZA (any topping)! 
! •
i
•
•
!
• 
•: 






:.:• 
•
i 
i! 
. 
•
:•• i 
! 
: 
...........................~·················~
* 8::~~1)
hl'biL.LET US SHOW YOUC'I-t(: 
F... r~';;:r-.-THE "FUN WAY" TO ~~~~ A BEAUTIFUL 
rr=:=~:=====::::~E~A~L~T~HY TAN! Best Student Pricing 
3 Bed VIsits •••••• 3 Booth VIsits •••• $15.00 
$26.00 $16.00 
7 Bed •••. $40.00 7 Booth visits. 
Extra Lo"U. Prices Now 
FUNTAN DOES IT AGAINJ 
Special extended for 10 more days 
BUYALLOFYOUR 
TAI"'I"'II"'G1"10W 
No expiration on tanning visits 
STOP IN TODAY AND SEE USI OR CALL US AT 219/272­
Locot.d wwt 01 Unlv...ny 1'0111 on Stale Rood 23 
with extra cheese i
•
•

PLUS !
•
•
Garlic Bread with cheese ;
•
Delivery Orders Only : 
(plus delivery and tax)



$5.25 • 
• ·=·. •
Limited Delivery Area ! 
-~ i ~Pizza i 
--~ . 
• 
.,.._,52929_______us.lll'torth . •:• 277-5880 ! 
Good/orSundaysandMondays i only with coupon : 

Career ­
I 
SPRING BREAK! 
European Toun 
GERMANY-10 daya 
Visit 

Nare•b•111· Rotlaeab..... Maalela. 
S•llzbarg. Lacerae. Zarlcla lncludes:Air -Hotel Accomodations -Breakfast & Dinner Daily. Fully 
Escorted.  
Departure Dates March 21  $999.00  
March 28  per person  
April4  DBL Occupancy  

SPAIN -8 days 
Visit SEVILLA, TANGIERS, GRANADA, TOLEDO 
Includes: Air -Hotel -Daily Breakfast -Sightseeing-
Deputures 


$999.00 

March 23 
March 30 
per person April 6 
DBL. Ocupancy 

FRANCE-lOdaysV..lt 
P•rt.. Reaa...Nona•ady. 
Cll•teaa Coaatry. St. M•lo. Orl-•• lncludes:Air -Hotel Accomodations -Breakfast & Dinner Daily. Fully 
Escorted.  
Departure Dates March 21  $1039.00  
March 28  per person  
April4  DBL. Occupancy  

~any other Spring Break vacation• avaUable CALL TODAY! 
travel service, inc. 

1165-·--s.,.,tlo _ ..
aM-­
--5U-Hl6c-l
--60--c-w-1 

The Observer Friday, December 6, 1985 -page 5 




National security adviser named 
Residents of459 and 359 Zal:nn Hall prepared to catch snow­balls tbey hoped would be thrown their way yesterday afternoon. The building shows the battle scars of the annual campus civil war, which occurred 
WASHINGTON The abrupt departure of Rob~rt McFarlane as President Reagan's national security adviser breaks up the administra­tion's foreign policy team and leaves an unknown, untested adviser in place. 
Where Henry Kissinger and Zbig­niew Brzezinski once exercised enormous infiuence on the presi­dents they advised, Vice Adm. John Poindexter now sits. And the battle to infiuence him -or override him ­is about to begin. 
Administration hardliners wanted Jeane Kirkpatrick placed in the job last winter when she tired ofbeing a spokesperson for Washington at the United Nations. 
Such hardliners now are likely to step up their efforts to fill the vacancy created by McFarlane's departure and to win new infiuence over Reagan's decisions. 
Whether they prevail could depend on Poindexter's world views and on the force of his per­sonality. Little is known about either outside the tight little world of the staff of the National Security Coun­cil, where he served as deputy to McFarlane. 
There, Poindexter concentrated on regional issues and managing U.S. actions in hijackings and other crises. He has little experience in the broad issues of foreign policy. He holds a doctorate in nuclear physics and has a reputation of being a low­keyed conservative. 
McFarlane came into office in Oc­tober 1983 with none of the academic credentials and distinctive personalities of a Kissinger or a Brzezinski. 
But the former Marine combat veteran and student of international relations worked hard, steeped him­selfin the intricacies ofarms control and gained Reagan's confidence. 
They met three or four times a day, sometimes alone. Together with Secretary of State George Shultz, who shared his conservative outlook as well as his pragmatic in­stincts, McFarlane helped to per­suade Reagan to lower his anti-Soviet rhetoric and commit the United States to nuclear weapons negotiations with Moscow. 
The negotiations have not paid off yet, but there were strong indica­tions that McFarlane unlike Secretary of Defense Caspar Weinberger, other top Pentagon of­ficials and possibly the president himself-did not want the Star Wars anti-missile research program to become a barrier to an agreement to reduce strategic weapons on both sides. 
When Weinberger and Shultz disagreed on U.S.-Soviet relations, Mideast policy, terrorism and other issues, McFarlane's views often were ·pivotal, and he usually came down on the side of Shultz and the State Department. 
The public reason for McFarlane's departure was that he wished "to .move on to new personal and professional challenges." The persis­tent speculation is that he was losing a battle over turfwith Donald Regan, 
18 in. Teddy Bear 
SJ99 



Stock up on these ALDIChristmasgifts. 

ChristmasTumble 
Diamond
Candles,
... :·''"\ 

Walnuts Wrapping
red, green -~
Buggy 

grade A fancy, 16 OL 
Paper
or white · ;···} in shell 

100 sq. ft. 
~ 
pillar, 3'x6' ....... 99e 

~ 
sc:~:~ ~~~~··....49e 
large size 

89ft 
or mixed nuts ~12' taper, 4 pk.... 49e 
Fruit Cock'-11 .a9ft Or1nge Juice 
choice Qt.rahl)o hcu•vv syrup 16 oz .. ..... ~~=~:!0 ~~-~~~ .......79e ~·!l~s.....................J9e
~~s;".'~~:.:.a.~ ~ ~~~--•••.99e

Pineapple Premium White Breed 
25e
59e ~:!1:''-bl•. ~~-~...............89e Grapefruit Juice 20oz.••••••••••••••••••••••••
crUShed. Chunk. SliCed jiJtCII pk. 
grade A laney. 20 oz .•....•.•.• 

~2r:;c~~~~~-~-~~~~~~-~-99e ~~'C:"~~: ~~~~-~ -~~~: _.. _. 79e ~o:,B~~~ .................. 69e:~~·~-~~~~ -~-~~~~~ _..._69e Peanut Butter 
1 ~r::·~':'7·!~~~-~~~~~ ......49e c:s·::v.":.~~~~~:: ~~~~-~-'-~_v:. 89e ~':z~~-~ ~~-~~-~~~~-~ ......49e
~~';:~'/, ~,' o~~~~~~~~!. :. ~,, 89C 
Cut Asparagus 69e ~!:~~-~~~-~~-'. ~~~~~~: ..69e ~~~~:" gr':":,~~~-. _....JS9e ~~!~s~~~~::, .............99e 
grade-Alaney. 14 5 oz ........ . 

::!~':!~ c1 ............_.....59e
:~~.:~~~~-~----.....~89e

~':n~h:r:~:C~s. 4 az ........39e ~u:: ~~~~~-~~ -~-~~~~ ....99e 
Whole S-t Pickles 

~=~c:~~~~~-..............39e 
or S-t Rellah

Cut Groen Beans ......... 25e ~:ur_ ....................... 59e 78ft 
graoe A laney. 15 5 oz grade Alaney, 16 oz .. • • .. .. .. • 7~ 
:~~~~-~~-~-~~~~-............49e
Corn 

""hole kernel 01' cream style. 2se ~a~~".~~-~~~~-~~-_ ..........__99e ~=·~~.;:t~u! ..........69e 
grade A laney. 16 5 oz ........ . ~-~-1~g!~~4u;!! ............Sf99 
~J:r:~:::c'.~~~~~~-~---99e ~!"'1!~~ ...................39e
~.·!~ gradeAtancy. t&oz ••... 25e ~~~ .......... 79e ~c~rlnlck.·~. ~u~~ ~~~-~~~~ ... SJ49 ~~~=!Ill grrnd. 32 oz. •.•...... S349 
!~~~~~~: ..................39e Brach's Chocolate Swrs, SJ49 ~~-·~~g?a~!~r: ............29e 
McCormick's Ground 59ft Peanuts, Clusters, 12 oz.•..•
Clnn~~mon, 1 12 oz • . .. .. • .. ~
~~·0~·~~-~~-~~-~~-~ -~~-~~~-. 39e Potato Chlpa ::~.~~~5~;~~:::~.'.'.~'-'.....t9e 
McCormick's Chill 59e regular. npple. BBO or sour ..9ft California Navel Oranges SJ49
:'o~o~~-~~~-ters ........99e Powder, 137 oz ............ crurn and onron. a oz. • •••••••• ~ ~ 4 lb., large srze, laney grade . , .••.• 
Theseare nolweekly speeials. 
These areeverydayALDI"Iowprices-. 
the president's chiefofstaff. At issue waswhether he would keep his easy, unscheduled access to the Oval Office. 
Regan moved over from the Treasury in February to become the president's chief of staff. He quickly asserted himself, and along with Shultz, Weinberger and McFarlane, became a regular guest on the Sun­day television talk shows that serve as a barometer of power in Was­hington. 
McFarlane and Regan took charge of preparing the president for last month's summit meeting with Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev, but apparently it was an uneasy, makeshift alliance. 
Methodical and sometimes pon• derous, McFarlane is inclined to ex­plore all sides of a question for subtleties, as befits his early training on the National Security Council un­der Kissinger, as a Senate Armed Services Committee staffer, and as counselor to the State Department and trouble-shooter under Alexander Haig. 
Regan's Wall Street training was 
not keyed to solving international 
problems. He is direct and deeply 
conservative. 
McFarlane had a prominent public role at the summit, handling a number of the briefings for the American and foreign press. Regan also was visible -at the president's side, appearing in television inter­views and, uncomfortably for the White House, being quoted as saying that women have less interest in nuclear issues than men. 
Imported Butter Cookies 
996~ 
was $1.29 
Store Hours 
"IIONDAY-THUR$0AY 10 A..M.-7 P.M. FRIDAY I A.M... P.M. SATURDAYIA.II._. P.M. 
The Stock-Up Store. ·· . 
CLOSED SUNDAY 

929 North Eddy, South Bend (In Goodwill Plaza) 
j 
1
, 
i 
We reserve the right to limit quantittel. We welcome caah 1nd fooclltaln.,. only. No cMckl pleiM. 

The Observer 


Opposition unites behind Aquino wife 
MANILA, Philippines • The long­divided political opposition ap­peared yesterday to be uniting behind the presidential candidacyof Corazon Aquino, the widow ofassas­sinated opposition leader Benigno Aquino. 
Meanwhile, the Supreme Coun agreed to hear nine separate peti­tions appealing for cancellation of the Feb. 7 special election called by President Ferdinand Marcos. 
Marcos indicated he might agree to participate in a nationally televised debate requested by Aquino: "My conversations with ladles have always been pleasant and 
I  presume  I  will  survive  this  
encounter,"  he  said  in  a  news  
release.  

Aquino blames Marcos for the Aug. 21, 1983 assassination of her husband and for the acquittal Mon­day of 26 men accused ofcomplicity in the killing. 
Until Aquino was gunned down at Manila airpon when he returned from three years of self-exile in the United States, many thought he might be able to defeat Marcos in an election. 
Most observers said if more than one opposition candidate split the anti· Marcos vote in the election scheduled for February, Marcos' vic· tory would be assured. 
Presidential aspirant Salvador Laurel said he and Aquino will an· nounce jointly the name of the single opposition candidate Sunday. 
"We wlll make a very lmponant announcement as to who will be the official candidate of the united op· position. . . to topple this unwanted and repugnant regime," Laurel said. 
"Unity has been achieved," said a source close to the Aquino cam­paign, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
Aquino, expressing surprise at Laurel's statement, declined to say if she would join him. "Let's wait until Sunday," she said. 
But Aquino said she would run only for the presidency. She said ear· Her she had offered the vice presidency to Laurel. 
"I have been perceived as the uni· fier and many have indicated they would only give way to me," she said, referring to other presidential aspirants who now support her. "I don't think it would solve anything in this country for me to run as (a candidate for) vice president." 
Aquino has been endorsed by former presidential candidates Aquilino Pimentel, jovito Salonga and Ramon Mitra, along with several moderate assemblymen and leftist leader and former Senator Lorenzo Tanada. 
In an interview with The As· sociated Press on Wednesday, Aquino said she did not expect it would be easy to oppose Marcos in an election. "I think Marcos won't al· low anyone to succeed him," she said. 
She also said in the interview that she would try to solve a growing communist insurgency by negotia· tion "so that all of this fighting and killing will stop." The government says an average of 10 people are killed each day because of the fight· ing. 


Correction 
Because of an editing error, an Item in the Of Interest column of yesterday's Observer was incor· rect. Father Edward O'Connor of the theology department lectured last night on "The Meaning of Medugorje: Recent Apparitions of Mary in Yugos· lavla." 

Friday, December 6, 1985 -page 6 

with 

G 
CLqRKTELE


COMMUNICATIONS, INC. 
7i% LESS  '7i% LESS  7i% LESS  
THAN AT&T's  THAN AT&T's  THAN AT&T's  
DAYTIME RATES  EVENING RATES  NIGHTTIME RATES  

LESS COST -Clark Telecommunication rates are 71/2 °/o below A f& T rates all the time. 71/2 o;o below daytime, evening and nighttime rates. 
LESS HASSLE -Because Clark itemizes your billing for each individual, there is no more figuring out your roommate's calls. 
LESS NOISE -Clark long distance is clear, quality communications. No more strange interference, funny noises, dead air, or low volume with Clark. 
LESS RUNAROUND-Because Clark was chosen by the Administration of the University of Notre Dame to handle long distance service for students, we hatve an on-campus service representative to answer questions and respond to problems right away. 
your vo~ice counts . . . 
Call today to start saving on all your long distance services, or see our ON-CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVE in room G91 in the Memorial Library. 283-4150 

CLqRKTELE
COMMUNICATIONS, INC. 
211 West Washington !)ulte 1700 South Bend, IN 46601 
r-=-----------------------------------------~---,--------~-----------------~ 


MARC RAMIREZ Grinch," says Mike Shields, a Howard tetious as possible, then vanishing into already singing and playing guitar in 
guest features writer junior who is at the reins ofthis year's night's obscurity. It was fun, but they Howard Hall Masses. "I really wanted to production. "It's such a classic. You can knew it couldn't last forever: Ringo was be a part ofit. It's important to me to go and be a kid and just enjoy it -you graduating in May of 1978. keep it going." 
Our king was born in an old wooden know, boo and hiss the Grinch, and stuff SaidJester: "We thought, 'What can When a minstrel is ready to move on, shed like that." we do to leave our mark?' And that's he is obligated to leave his mark on a A manger instead ofa crib or a bed Last years's Grinch, brought to life by when the concept ofminstrel tradition designated Minstrel Tree on campus. With nothing but the blanket ofnight Mike McKay, was that type ofcrowd­came along. We were both into This act fortifies the minstrel tradition. to keep him warm pleaser. At key points during the Christmas, and so we got the idea of But without knowledge ofthe minstrel But out ofthe darkness be brought us reading, McKay would crack his neck passing down a sense ofresponsibility." history, the spirit ofthe tradition would light into the microphone. "That was per­be threatened with extinction. This was
And the rest, as they say, is history. just like the stars in the heavens of fect," says senior Phil Buckingham, who what was precisely in danger ofhappen­
On Dec. 10, 1977,Jester and Ringo 
night will be performing the reading this year. ing in the winter of 1984, and it was
served as hosts for the first Christmas
The Son ofMan bas come into our lives "It was so gross." saved at the 11th hour on the night of
show in the basement of LaFortune. And 
to bring us peace tonight Dec. 8, 1984. 
the tradition was passed on 'to new"Our King" NOTICES generations as each minstrel moved on. That was the night Ringo andJester
John Foryt, 1 983 Experienced minstrels. Serenading a 
returned to the Notre Dame campus. 
!Ringo begat Fanango. Jester begat
specialty. Call Ringo andjester8243. 
Jeremiah. Jeremiah begat Seamus. Once upon a Christmas Nazz, a cold
Dec. 10, 1983. 

Seamus begat Tavis and Shilo. And Tavis December night
This time around has been typical of Thanks to former Notre Dame stu­and Shilo begat Liam, ak.a. Mike Shields. Church's steeple gazing down, not a
times past. dents Carl Casazzo and Matt Feeney, The Nazz is packed; the warm glow of there's a lot to enjoy nine years after Aminstrel has as his first priority the cloud in sight the lights onstage seems oblivious to the their brainchild matured into a reality. duty ofkeeping the tradition alive, and 
Huddled voices, careworn faces, follow­ing the ltgbt 
blowing cold outside. In 1977, the pair initiated the first of he guards that duty with the pride ofa 
The musicians call up their next several unique traditions by proclaiming 1 7 ..year-old kid with his first car. "I saw Once upon A Christmas Nazz number -"Silver Bells," a traditional themselves the first campus minstrels. how much people were enjoying it, ho\\ "Once Upon A Christmas Nazz" Christmas favorite. The harmony is great As Ringo andJester, the two trolled much people were getting out ofit," Carl Casazza and when it works, which happens to be about the campus, serenading women's says minstrel Tavis ( 1985 graduateJohn Matt Feeney, 1984 most of the time. The quantity ofvoices dorms, wearing heavy Salvation Army Foryt ), who along with minstrel Shilo and swiftness of melody would seem to overcoats in an attempt to be as mys-( 1985 graduateJim Sutherland) was see NAZZ, page 2 create an off-key breeding ground, but the singers manage to pull through impressively. 
Most people probably have heard better. But that's not what's important here. 
Call it the spirit ofChristmas, holiday cheer, the aura of the season, Christmas magic. Call it whatever you want, but it's real. Just ask any one ofthe people assembled in the crowded confines of 
the Nazz. It exists here tonight. 

The concept ofthe Christmas Nazz is 
~;""~"l,..y,.t sonw willi{lg people together to perform Christmas music, fuviie aJbt"· -.­more people to listen and to take part, and have fun celebrating what Christmas is about. The concept seems to work pretty well. 
The 1985 edition ofthe Christmas Nazz -the ninth annual -is set for 7 tonight in the Chautauqua Ballroom on the second floor ofLaFortune. It's free, and as ifthat weren't enough, free cookies and hot cocoa will be provided too. Early seating is advised. 
The show features five original songs by its present and former musicians, along with performances ofseasonal favorites -for example, the playing of "Carol of the Bells" in four-part guitar. Readings from "A Christmas Carol" and "A Visit From St. Nicholas" are also scheduled, as well as "How The Grinch Stole Christmas," accompanied by the inevitable Whoville choir. 
• "Everyone's always excited about the fJ\Al (WfiM~Ot.-T 
rz-6-<6s­
. ' 
~ I 
·;·,~;, ·~~rt.:> · ! 
.." i~ -. ·, 


Happenings-page 2 

'Hay Fever' offers fun, whimsy for the bargain 
Friday, December 6, 1985 
KEVIN KENNEDY 
features writer 
T 
he advenisement for Noel Coward's "Hay Fever" calls it a delightfully frivolous comedy, and for once there is truth in advenis­ing. The fair-sized crowd at the opening performance at Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium last night seemed to agree, as they responded enthusiatically to the flawless production. 
The play centers around an English well-to-do family that seems to delight itselfwith throwing complements at each other. Judith Bliss (Susan McGinnis), the mother of the family, continually talks about how she must return to the stage because her audience is clamoring for her, although she·has only received two letters asking her. 
Sorel Bliss (Catherine E. Best) , the daughter, gets in "complement" fights with her mother; each one complements the other and replys by acknowledging the truth ofit. Simon Bliss (Brian Loemer ), the son, is no less "good-natured" as he falls in love after one kiss -and announces an engagement. David Bliss Uohn Sheehy), the father, 

r 
r 

The entire cast does the enviable job ofa marvelous performance. The story line is very easy to follow and is humorous throughout. The only criticism that could be leveled is that for some reason some in­decipherable music was played at the beginning ofeach act which had nothing to do with the play itself. Once the action starts, everything is fine. "Hay Fever" runs tonight and tomorrow, and Dec. 12, 13 and 14. 


r 
I 
,r Nazz 
r 
r 
continuedfrom page 1 

r 
r Even across the 2,000 miles of
r
, telephone wire from Phoenix, Arizona, to here, it's clear thatJester
r
, is pleased to know the tradition still 
thrives. "We (Ringo and he) had always had this fantasy about com­

~ ing back years down the road, to see what was going on with the show," he says. " So we came back
~ last year, and we didn't tell anybody. And it was one of those events where the anticipation is less exciting than the actual event. To 
r 
I 
see many ofthe same acts again -It was a real deja vu experience, and it turned out better than we had

~ 
anticipated." Ringo, coming In from NewJer­f sey, metJester In Chicago. They then traveled into South Bend by 

..--....J~~r:fi;~,z,-:;5"enSidu~~;;c;us~~ead/wrtl'iC~:i~iiemuti~ir.:C.s~.Yaen~c~i";"_,_e__re--1•-:~_o • • ~.~I E;p_•_;~; •R.~;f~.·~;a.·~f •1
• 
together they produced the song, "Once Upon AChristmas Nazz." 
Tavis says he was sitting In his room one day when he received a call from a guy named Dave, from Dillon Hall. "Dave" inquired about the date and time ofthe 1984 

r Christmas Nazz, and since Tavis 
r knew that the posters hadn't been 
r displayed yet, he told him. 
r "Then he called again," says Tavis. "He asked a few more ques­tions, like what was going to be Included in the show, and I never thought anything about it. "Then, at the show, I saw Matt ­)ester-and I got really excited. He came up to me, stuck his hand out, and said, 'Hi, I'm Dave from Dillon Hall.' I just busted out laughing." "I was working on a paper upstairs (in LaFortune) that night," says junior Phil Wolf, who will read 
the selection from Dickens' "A Christmas Carol" this year. "I went down there to see what was going on. And then -it was so weird. Those guys just showed up. They sat In the back, and then one of them staned taking pictures. Finally they said who they were, and they looked just like you'd expect them to look, you know? Thick sweaters and jeans and beards, in their late 
20s -they looked like the kind of spends his time in more reflective 

pursuits -he writes books. 
The plot revolves around the Blisses' generousity and cheer; each one in the family has invited a guest over for the weekend without tel­ling the others until the last mo­ment (sounds like a situation comedy). When Sorel finally breaks the Ice by telling ofher soon-to­arrive guest, the others are quick to remark oftheir ~ests also. 
When the guests arrive, one by one, each is received snobbishly by the other three in the family, as each had hoped on having a quiet weekend with their respective guest. As the uneasiness of the situation unfolds, tempers start to flare. An unsuccessful attempt at playing a game results in each ofthe Blisses ending up with a guest other than their own. As each one falls in love with their newfound mate, the ensuing entanglement is hilarious. 
The "guests" are Sandy Tyrell (Mark). Costanzi), Myra Arundel (LorriJ. Wright), Richard Greatham (Kevin Fitzpatrick) andJackie Coryton (Leah). Domitrovic). Clara, the Bliss's maid, is played by Katie Byrnes. The play was directed by Roberta N. Rude. 
guys who would play guital and 
sing folk music." 
The guest minstrels then joined uam, Shilo, Tavis and Seamus ( l984 grad Bob O'Donnell) in the cus­tomary "Fields ofBethlehem," which Ringo andJester themselves penned in 1978, as well as perform­ing "Once Upon A Christmas Nazz," the tune they had just finished. 
But the most important event of the night was still to take place. 
Looking back, a wisened Uam admits that he didn't realize how great it all was until it happened. 
"The tradition was ready for a shot ofadrenalin right about then," saysJester. "Mike didn't really un­derstand the history. So after the show, we took him out to the Minstrel Tree, and told him it how it all staned, told him we used to go serenading. He didn't believe it. 
"So we took him out behind Lyons, and I played the harmonica to attract attention. After awhile, people staned looking out the 
windows, and we ~t~t~d-sl~~-" 
"We just walked out there and started singing carols.'' remembers Uam. "Finally, we just stopped and kind ofwandered away. 
"It was the neatest thing, in the 

world." 
"That really hit Mike hard," says 

Tavis. "I think that's why Matt did it 
-to show Mike the spirit. You can talk about it, and talk about it, and ' talk about it, but to experience it is 
the difference." 
In particular, experiencing the 

spontaneity ofthe moment was the 
cornerstone of the new tradition. 
"Those guys are true minstrels," 
says liam. "They're spontaneous. 
That's the spirit I'm trying to keep 
alive. They're still young in that 
sense. 
"One thing that really struck me 

is that people come back for this 
thing," he continues. "Bob 
(Seamus) andJimmy (Shilo) are 
coming back for it. I mean, Jimmy's 
-. 
Chmese, Vtetnamese iir1rrf¥l~WIJ.(},.f_.Q..Q_(i-­
Mon. & Weds. 1 0"/.off with dining room coupon only 



in med school. That's a big thing for will we go? What will we do? But I him to c.:.i_?rre for a realized that it's not the place · it's weekend. · · · , 1 th!= people. It's the minstrels. 
Jestersays he won't be here. At · : . ''~ not yourJoe Musician. But last check, ~ngo was on vacation. .j.,·()u~usidcoq;es from the heart. But how can anyone be sure? "Well, You get a close feeling-it's like a theysaid they're not coming back," .:-•common bond. It's something I'll 
says a joking Tavis, who is already 
here. "But I'm not believing that 
until I don't see them there." 
Well, even ifJester and Ringo aren't there in person, they don't have to worry about a thing. It's all taken care of. The Christmas magic the minstrels envisioned nine years ago still thrives at Notre Dame; it survives despite the fact that the Nazz, where the show took place for the past eight years, has been torn down to make way for im­provements to LaFortune. 
"Where Can We Go?," an original composition by Uam, was inspired by the forced move to Chautauqua. "It's about the feeling I got when I heard they were tearing the Nazz down," says Liam. "I thought, where always have." 
Here I sit, the lone minstrel With no place to go They"re tearing down my home, the Nazz Where can we go? What can I do now, I thought? What about the show? 
What can I do? Where can we go? 
... Then at once it came to me On a moonlit night The Christmas Nazz The Christmas Nazz Is a place in our hearts 
"Where Can We Go?" Mike Shields, 1985 
_,__ _...__ _.,__ 


Nl TCLUB 
Come to Tivoli's 
South Bend's Party Headquarters 
Open 6 nights a week Drinking and Dancing 
9':00 pm ·? 
Located on U.S. 33 N. at North Village Mall 271-J 


Happenings-page 3 Friday, December 6, 1985 
It's hard to swallow 
'Bad Medicine's' pill 
KEVIN BECKER 
features writer 

W 
hen I left the theater after seeing "Bad 
Medicine," I had no idea what I was 

going to write about the movie. This, 
however, may have been due to the fact that 
the screenplay's author, Harvey Miller, may 
not have known even what he was writing 
when he wrote "Bad Medicine." 
This is not to say that I didn't enjoy the movie. In fact it probably has some merit as one of those movies that one sees at a second run theater or before 5 p.m. when the prices 
Movie review 
Bad Medicine ·,
**' 
(outoffour) 


are lowered to S2. 50. What this flick had was a case of the milds: it was midly amusing, mildly touching and mildly informative. 
The movie's basic plot concerned a group ofAmerican students studying medicine at the "Madera Universidad de Medicina, somewhere in Central America." At the center ofthe story was J elf Marx, played by Steve Guttenburg of"Police Academy" fame, who is the youngest son in a family full of doctors. The movie also focuses on Dr. 

Moviesh'• 

•The 
Student Activities Board presents the film "Gremlins," tonight and tomor­row night in the Engineering Auditorium. This Steven Spielberg creation stars Phoebe Cates, Hoyt Axton, Polly Holiday, Francis Lee McCain and Gizmo, the friendly Gremlin. Directed byJoe Dante, People Magazine called "Gremlins""...a delicious surprise. A movie ofwicked wit, startling invention and laughter." Tickets to the 7, 9: 1 5 and 11:30 p.m. shows are $1.50. 

•Natassja 
Kinski and Harry Dean Stan­ton are star-crossed lovers in the film "Paris, Texas," playing tonight in the Annenberg Auditorium. The new German cine.. la meets the modern American western in this portrayal ofthe interface between Europe and America, reconstructed here as epic madness, family condict, commoditized sexuality and the strength ofchildren. Directed by Win W enders, this suspense thriller received four stars in the 1984 Cannes Grand Prix. Tickets for the 7:30 p.m. show are S3. 


Art 
~I 
•The exhibit "Aerial Images," by Kalamazoo photographer Gary Cialdella, is on view in The Woman's Art League Gallery of the South Bend Art Center. The Michigan landscape and shoreline ar;;: featured in these photographs. 

Madera, the sex-starved founder ofthe medical school played by Alan Larkin. and liz Parker, an ex-nurse played byJulie Haggerty. 
Throughout the movie, the average Marx is seen trying to live up to the expectations of overbearing parents. Marx's arrival at the foreign school is treated with some at­tempted humor at the beginning that often falls short. In the middle ofthe movie, however, there is a change in attitude as the plot gets serious. 
The last halfshows the American students at Madera running a clinic in their spare time for some Pueblo villagers, who have only an inept medicine man at theiE disposal. The students manage to secure supplies for the clinic by stealing from the medical school. This, ofcourse, leads to the eccentric Dr. Madera's discovery oftheir operation. 
But the complications in the plot aren't over because Madera "wants to spawn" with Liz Parker, who is also participating in the shoddy clinic operation. When Parker refuses Dr. Madera's advances, he expells all of the American students from his school. 
Ifthis all seems like an hour-and-a-half 
version of"General Hospital Goes to the 
Third World," you are not too far off. 
The ending ofthe movie is fairly decent and worthy ofsecrecy. However, this movie's decency is its main problem. It is not a comedy, it is not a tragedy and it is.not a documentary. It is just plain decent. 


The Scoop 

•On Exhibit, a cooperative art space, will sponsor the fundraising event, "Party With Mona." Works by area artists and members ofthe gallery will be raffled off and music and entertainment will be provided. The event begins at 7 p.m. and admission is SS. 

Theater 
• 
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre presents Noel Coward's comedy"Hay Fever" tonight and tomorrow night in O'I.aughlin Auditorium. Directed by Roberta Rude, a new member ofthe Saint Mary's faculty, the play recounts a weekend at the English country estate of the Bliss family. Each ofthe four family members has invited a guest for the weekend without informing the others of the additional occupants. Coward's sar­donic wit surfaces in the chaos that ensues upon the guest's arrival. Tickets for the 8:10p.m. show are SS and $6. 

•Marsha 
Norman's Pulitzer Prize win­ning play "Night Mother" will be per­formed by the Indiana University at South Bend Theater Company tonight and tomorrow night in the Northside Hall Main Theater on the IUSB campus. Set in , ne living room ofa small house on an ;solated country road, this play explores the final hour in the life ofa young woman who has decided that it is no longer worthwhile to go on living. Tickets are S3 for the 8: I 0 performances. 



JMusic 

•The 
Notre Dame Jazz Bands will present Dimensions ln}azz tonight in Washington Hall at 8 p.m. Under the direction ofFather George Wiskirchen and Randy O'Keefe, the two jazz bands will perform a stylistically varied program covering current big band fare, including "New Orleans StnJt" by Jack DeJohnette. There is no charge for admission. 

•The 
Notre Dame Chorale and Brass Ensemble Concert takes place Sunday at 8 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. Sponsored by the department ofmusic, the show is free and open to the public. 

•
Violinist Laura Klugherz will per­form sonatas by Bach, Beethoven, Copland and Ponce Sunday at the Snite Museum ofArt. Klugherz, assistant profes­sor of music at Notre Dame, has traveled extensively as a soloist and chamber artist and has recorded for the Bavarian State Radio, the North German State Radio and the South African Broadcasting Associa­tion. Prizes she has received include the Midland Odessa Young Artist Award, the SanJose Symphony Young Artist Award and the Juan Morales Prize for research and performance ofSpanish music. Klug­herz is currently concertmaster ofthe South Bend Symphony Orchestra. The performance begins at 4 p.m. and is free to the public. 



t
,. ' 
' 
,I!t t t 

I 
\ ..~ '1\1 

Above: 'Bad Medicine' chronicles the misadventures ofJeffMarx (Steve Guttenberg) as he struggles through life at a shady Latin American medical school. Left: Serious-minded student Liz Parker (Julie Hagerty) must fight offthe amorous attentions ofthe school's founder, Dr. Ramon Madera 
(Alan Arkin). 

•The Northern Indiana Historical Society will celebrate an old-fashioned holiday Saturday from I 0 am. to 4 p.m. and Sunday from 12 to 4 p.m. Featured exhibits include a 19th century toy store window, ornaments and toys from the Fredrickson Collection. The LaVille High School Madrigals, Mishawaka High School Madrigals and Michiana Men's Chorus will perform and members ofthe junior Historical Society will interpret the exhibits for guests. The exhibits and decorations will remain in the museum until January. 

The celebrants for Mass at Sacred Heart Church this weekend will be: Father Michael Heppen at 5 p.m. 
(Saturday night vigil). Father David Porterfield at 9 a.m. Father Peter Rocca at 10:30 am. Father Peter Rocca at I2: I 5 p.m. 
The schedule for confessions in 
Sacred Heart Church is: Monday through Saturday at Il:15 a.m. Monday through Friday at 5 p.m. Monday through Thursday at 7 p.m. 
Saturday only 4 to 5 p.m. in the Crypt. 
•The sophomore class Mass is in the Stanford-Keenan Chapel at II a.m. Sun­day. Immediately following the Mass will be a christmas brunch for class mem­bers in the "A" line section ofNorth Dining Hall. 
-



Happenings-page 4 Friday, December 6, 1985 

I 
l 
I 
t 
-
~ 
H.I.'s modest ambience flares up into bright Xmas 
JOHN AFFLECK 
features writer 

any other time of the year,
A t 

I'd say H.l.'s is a fun place to go 
with a bunch offriends ifyou want 
to get out ofSouth Bend for one 

night, but that the world won't end 
ifyou don't make the trek up to 
Niles to check it out. 
During Christmas season, 

however, a trip up Route 31 to H.l.'s 
is a good way to escape from up-
The Bar Beat 
(1 • ( H.l.'s 
.;Juli~-**1 

(out of four!
--. 

coming finals for a while and get a 
nice dose of the Christmas spirit at 
the same time. 

The reason for this is atmosphere. 
H.l.'s has a pleasant feeling wit· 
hour any special decoration. A 

split-level establishment, H.l.'s has a 
fine restauraunt downstairs with a 
bar and dance floor on the upper 
level. From upstairs, one can look 
down on the restaurant and out the 
large glass front at the street. The 
whole thing is decorated in a quasi­
1890s style with plenty ofbrass, 
plants, green carpeting and wood­
tone furniture. 
For the yuletide season, the 
management at H.l.'s goes ab­

solutely crazy to make the bar an 
elegantly done Christmas shrine. 
Approximately 30,000 lights, mainly tiny white ones, are hung in the windows, on the plants and in about every other conceivable place in the bar. Santa Claus models rotate on l 0 to l 5 platforms about the place, and a toy train runs on a track around the restaurant. Of course there is plenty of tinsel as well as other traditional Christmas knick-knacks. 
Especially at night, it's an im­
...30,000 lights are hung in the window, .. and in about every other conceivable place ... 
pressive site, and H.l.'s will 
probably help get one into the 
mood ofthe season. 

One does pay for the atmosphere, though. Pitchers of Pabst and Old Milwaukee, which are medium­sized at best, are $4, and Heinekin and Labatts are $7.50. Mixed drinks at H.l.'s aren't cheap either, usually hovering in the $2 to $3 range. 
There are few specials at H.l.'s. The best ones are generally on the 

Stephen Blaha/Thc Observer 
Three waitresses take a breather from their work at H./.~. in Niles 
r-----------------------------

With this coupon receive a 
Large Pizza for Medium Pizza Price Medium Pizza for Small Pizza Price (Delivery Orders Only) After 5 pm on Fri.-Sat. Only (Limited Delivery Area) 
277-5880 Offer expires Dec. 21 
L----------------------------~ 
price ofentrees at the restaur-.mt. 
For Monday Night Football H.l.'s 
does have quarter beers and dollar 
pizza, although that doesn't do 
anyone a lot ofgood 13 weeks into 
the National Football League 
season. 

H.l.'s dance floor, which despite 
its small size is more than adc:quate, 
is nicely set off from the rest of the 
upper level. A disc jockey spins 
tunes from 10 p.m. till dosing every 
night. 

Getting a good OJ at H.l.'s is a 
very hit or q:tiss son ofthing. 
Sometimes the DJs play a danceable 
mix ofrhythm and blues, funk and 
rock 'n' roll. But at other times one 
is treated to an evening ofvery 
disco-oriented music and hard rock 
or at worst, party tapes, which get 
played again and again. 

Since H.l. 's tends to attract an 
older crowd, it's best to go in a 
group so you can enjoy yourself 
without feeling self-conscious 
about being the youngest pc:rson in 
the bar. 

All things considered, H.l.'s is a 
fun place to go every so often. Some 
ofmy friends make a pilgrimage up 
to H.l.'s once a semester and that seems about right. H.I.'s is a good ·time, but it's not my favorite club. I would recommend visiting H.I.'s sometime before the end of 
the semester. The Christmas atmo­
sphere makes it a nice place to 
escape before, or during, finals. 
H.l.'s is located on Front Street off 
Route 31 in downtown Niles, Mich. 
Stephen Blaha/The Observer 
Patrons admire the festooned interior ofH. I.~. covered with lights 
~-------------------------------------------­
FONDA-U FONDUE PARLOR  EXPIRES  
100 Ctnltr Mlahaw•ka 155·15%6  21 /13/85  
DIVIDEND  

TO BEARER _SE_V_E_N_D_O_L_L_A_R_S________$ 7.00 


This check Is worth $7.00 off the purchase of 11 Total Combination Dinner for 2. Not valid with any other promotional offer. Valid Tuesday through Friday Dinner only 

---------------------------------~~ 
~"n;: 1 .t-otL<O:J ·•111 pt:nn.•r . :iq j)•).lOSUOcl~ 
idn •PI•Auun•.ll••.anaA pull'puw ••dn puil•l'l~.. ja •puna• •'l:t a:t •::.uwp •wa~ 
ONI::I 


S>INII:IU ~:IDS I::IZZid 51511:1::1 
w• aa=a -"'daa=a 
qn1~ ..IDIU•S-IUWftiY L.a•qw•::.•a Awp.an:t•s :IJuJ.a••••••4 JIJAl 

DNYB 
51H~ 
-------------,~----------~~-----~ 
Accent 

Friday, December 6, 1985 -page 7 
Confession a comforting hug for sinners 
priest to tell me I've done wrong. around them, the way the prodigal in Waterford, cut by a master My conscience grows heavy when in the Gospel felt his father's arms craftsman, exhibiting all the dif­I'm cheating on God. around his neck, welcoming him ferent ways in which crystal can be
Father Robert Griffin 
back. Many Catholics, badly off­cut. Nothing else in Waterford willChrist, in the Gospel, got very course, want to feel the Church's be as perfect as that particular mas­
Letters to a Lonely God 
sharp with religious teachers who 
arms around them. The confessor is terpiece.
were doing the right things for the empowered by the Church to show Our tradition tells us that Mary is wrong reasons. He also warnc:d us them the signs ofGod's grace, hug­God's masterpiece. God didn't let He tells me that ifI lay all my sins that there were things we said and
A 
bout 40 years ago, I went to ging them with an absolution, reas­sin or evil touch her. He wrapped
down on jesus, and accept His did for which we would be held
confession for the first time. I suring them in an official way that her in his grace before her birth. 
Spirit, I am born again; and if I'm responsible at the time ofjudgment.
was nearly 20 years old, and I had a the Lord's love, revealed by His That is what the feast ofthe Immac­
born again, I can be assured that I'm I need His mercy for the times I fall.
lot ofsins to tell the priest. I'd never death, is as close to them as the air ulate Conception celebrates: Mary saved. To tell the truth, being saved The confessor is ordained in a
committed murder, or robbed a they breathe. conceived without sin I ask for her 
isn't something that worries me. church to which Our Lord gave the
bank; but I'd lived long enough to help when I go to con fessjon. The­
What worries me is this day's ministry offorgiveness, to offer I, too, want that sacramental hug
be guilty ofthings that I wasn't light comes through her as if she 
shabbiness: anger, jealousy, petti­back-sliders like me the sacrament after I've complicated my life with
proud to talk about. were the Waterford chalice through 
ness, soelfishness, pride, dishonesty, ofmercy. infidelity for which I find it hard to
It took courage to make a confes­which the wine ofthe Eucharist is 
lust, laziness, hatred. I know Catholics who say: "You forgive myself. Many Christians live 
sion ofthe sins ofmy whole life. I visible a5 the outward sign ofan
don't need a sacrament to be for­with the guilt from sins for which
did it because I was a new Catholic inward grace of the Real Presence. 
I'm God's child. Theology warns given. Tell Christ your sins. He'll they haven't yet forgiven them­
wanting to make his First Com· Billy Graham, last night, spoke 
me that ifI insist on behaving as give you His mercy." I couldn't selves: they're not sure anyone is 
munion at Christmas. I prayed for a tenderly ofher. He praised Christ, 
though the Devil were my father, I argue with that. Nevertheless, the listening when they say, "I'm sorry."
long time to Our Lady, Christ's dying on the Cross, asking the
can lose God's good will; He will let Church does have this ritual of The sacrament can break down the
mother, for help. I asked her to pray apostle john to take care ofher.
me go to a place ofdarkness, be­homecoming. I see how essential it walls we've built around our hearts
for me to be open to God's grace. I Christ's words were: "Mother, 
cause I have chosen it. However, I is on the day before Christmas in and minds.
began saying the rosary years behold thy son. Son, Behold thy 
trust that when I die, He will take New York, when the professional
before I became a Catholic. It's good to have Mary on your mother." Billy felt that the Lord was 
me home. I don't spend my time sinners come in, to get back in a 
I know as well as anyone that team; she's the comforter ofthe setting us an example ofhow we
daydreaming about heaven, or state ofgrace, if that's possible.
religion becomes complicated underdog. She's not an invention of should care for our parents. Of
dreading hell. I concentrate on "Father, it's been about five years. 
when you join the Catholic Church. the Church, complicating re-demp­course he missed the point ofthe
doing the best I can in the here-and­I've done everything in the book. I 
Last night, I watched Billy Graham tion. She's Christ's mother, and she symbolism: from that time on,
now. 

work as a hustler in Times Square." 
on television. He preached on the knows the score. She was at the foot Christians would regard her as the
"Why did you come today?" "I'm
Cross. "Believe that Christ died for Going to confession keeps me ofthe Cross; she was in the room Mother ofthe Church, the help of
spending Christmas with my family. 
you," he said, "and you will be honest. Forty years after going for with the dis-ciples when the Holy Christians. Catholics have oniy one
They'll want me to go to Mass. I
saved." I like Billy. He reminds me the first time, I still dread going to Spirit came down on Pentecost. thing in mind when they ask Mary 
want to start over with my life:."
of the preachers I knew as a kid. confession, just as I hate ~oing to Waterford, which makes Irish •to pray for them now and at the 
Years ago, I accepted Christ as my the doctor.. Confession ill Advent You could tell them: "Tell God crystal, has put out a chalice for use hours oftheir deaths: she will help savior, and I accepted Him again and Lent, and during the annual your sins; that's enough. He'll at Mass. It is nearly perfect in its us see jesus. last night. Yet the Christian life is retreat, and other times as needed, forgive you. You don't need a workmanship, but it's not entirely That's the kind offaith Fr. Sorin more difficult that Billy makes it keeps me from believing the lies priest." They want more than that: perfect. Waterford reserves perfec· had when he made her the P'itrO­seem. and self-deception. I don't need a they want to feel the Church's arms tion for one archetypal bowl, kept ness ofthis campus. 
Nicki Summers 'drops' anoth~er bomb on awed Gipp 
This is the 11th episode in The Summers lofted a perfect spiral to "Maybe they're right under your nose. year? He led the Muncie Central Bearcats to Observer's serial publication ofthe Notre O'Connor. The ball was right in his hands. After all, you did win a game last week. Let's the state championship." Damefootball story, "The Gipper's Ghost." He trotted across the sidewalk and spiked review your roster. There's some real talent "That is impressive!" 
In last week's episode, the 1rlsh finally the ball. there already." "You know, those four kids probably ended their winning draught with a 7-6 When he came back, he handed Summers Father Rock continued, "First, there's could have played at any school in the victory over Purdue. the ball. "Even Hart rarely throws better Dutch Reltgan. That's obvious. country. I've always wondered why they 
than that. You get the game ball, Nicki." "Then there's Hart Collins. He seems to settled for Notre Dame." Reagan stared at her in disbelief. b.e a natural leader even ifhe is oniy a "Maybe that's your answer. Maybe they "Where did a girl learn to throw like sophomore. came here because they love the school 
that?" "Then there's that Irish kid from Cat­and what it stands for. Maybe they're here
Nicki makes a pass 

T 
Summers gave him a charming, vic­hedral Prep in Erie, Pennsylvania. He was an for reasons more important than just torious smile. She flipped the ball to Reagan all-state tight end for the Ramblers, wasn't football." he win over Purdue eased the pressures and gathered up her books. he? Ryan O'Connor. Collins to O'Connor. "You just might be right, Father Rock. on everyone associated with the Fight­"Five older brothers." 
But you know what? I think those four ing Irish. Late one lazy autumn afternoon, a She walked away, whistling the Notre youngsters could be the core ofa great few days after the game, Collins, Reagan, Dame Victory March. Notre Dame team. A truly great Notre O'Connor and Lee were tossing a football Meanwhile Father Rock had quickly Dame team. And you know what else? Some around on the South Quad. become a fixture around the football day I'm going to set a goal for them that is All four were dressed in cutoffs, various offices. It seemed as if he had always been styles of Notre Dame T·shirts and blue· there. He became Coach Kelly's good friend striped Adidas "Boston" athletic shoes. and confidant. Often, he would stop by in 
1 

1,
Reagan was taking a turn at quarterback. the late hours with a fresh pot ofcoffee or 
He sent O'Connor deep. He was about to snacks. throw when a black-haired co-ed caught his Kelly was amazed by Father Rock's 
1 
1 particularly with the early days. It was knowledge ofNotre Dame football lore, 
l,
The Gipper's Gho~ 

almost as if Father Rock had seen it with his 
, 
own eyes. 

,1
Chapter ~Ieven ~ One evening he regaled Kelly with the story about when Notre Dame's famous 
,1 
Four Horsemen were the toast of the eye. The ball he sent up became a wobbly, country, and the Seven Mules, who did the dying duck. It fell embarrassingly short of blocking, were starting to resent it. He said its target. that Rockne had called a vote to determine 
The girl couldn't resist commenting. "Is which group contributed the most to the that the best you can do?" team's success. 
Dutch grimaced. He turned to face her. "Do you know what happened, joe?" Oh, no, not her. He recognized the unfor­"What, Father?" gettable blue eyes instantly. It was Nicki "The_line won. Seven to four!" Summers. At other times, the men discussed coach­c;&I'Crd. 
"I suppose you can do better." ing philosophies. Once, Kelly spoke ofthe truly worthy oftheir talents." "Try me." tremendous competition involved in "Why not right now? As soon as you ~~You're on." recruiting the best high school athletes. made the decision to stick with with Dutch, Summers set her books on the lawn. Father Rock said, "I think it would be a Hart, Ryan and Shenandoah as your regular O'Connor had retrieved the football. He wonderful thing ifa coach could just forget starters, the team really started to come handed it to Summers, who gripped it like a about all the high school and prep school I'll bet you'll be hearing a lot ofthat before together. They're really high achievers, pro. wonders ofthe world and develop a team those two graduate." those four. So set a goal! To motivate them, 
She whispered, "O'Connor. Hook and from among the students ofhis institution "Anybody else?" you just need to point out the hill. They'll go." who came to his school because they liked "Let's not forget that kid with the All­figure out how to use it!" 
Reagan defended on the play. O'Connor it best and not because ofan attractive offer American name. What is it? Shenandoah "Good idea, Father. Look out, Southern ran about ten yards. Summers pumped­made for athletic ability." Lee?" Cal, here come the Irish!" faked and froze Reagan Oatfooted in his "You know, Father Rock, if I could find "You're: right about that one, Father To be continued . .. tracks. O'Connor raced 10 more yards. A some boys like that, maybe we really could Rock. He's my most promising freshman, determined Reagan quickly recovered and rebuild the Notre Dame program. But and a real speedster on defense. Did you Ftom "The Glpper'1 ~· copyt1pt 198' by 1oben nearly closed the gap. where do you find them?" know he was Indiana's "Mr. Basketball" last 
~Publllbed by O'Connor PubllohlnJI CO.IIeprlmed by pamiMion. 
~i~~~_()__i_Il__t_______________M_id~ay,_oe_cem_b_er6~,I-98-5~p~ag_es 
'Grinch' steals Christmas with semester finals 
And unto the world, a child was born under  
the Star of David. A child who was to be the  
Savior to all mankind. And as the years passed,  
the people would celebrate the anniversary of  
this child's birth. They would be full of good  
I  cheer as it would be a time oflove and forgive­ 
r  ness.  

Jeanne Grammens

I 
ask not 
I 
Families and good friends would gather together and grow in the love of their Savior. Uttle children would anxiously await a man who illustrated this time ofgiving, a man who could answer all of their little dreams. !\jot a 
~ child would sleep on the eve ofChrist's birth, as they awaited the jolly figure ofSanta Claus. Yes, at this time of year, there seems to be magic in the air. 
But alas, with every bit of magic, there seems to be some misehie( At colleges across the country, the dark cloud ofthe silver lining Is patiently waiting to loom. Waiting and watching, just as the Grlnch surveyed Whoville. Grlnch's theme seems appropriate, "Catch them off guard." just as students start to enjoy the spirit of Christmas, the anxiety will zap them. 
Immediately after Thanksgiving, the Christmas spirit tries to take over. Students come back loaded with Christmas trees, cookie dough and cutouts, lights, wrapping paper and especially mistletoe. The first snow­fall turns Notre Dame and Saint Mary's into a Christmas wonderland. The Notre Dame Glee 
r Club brings Christmas carols to the dorms. 
Men and women decorate their rooms and 
I put lights on the windows. The Grotto seems 
r to have a special glow as the golden flames 
flicker against the white snow. Yes, by Dec. 2, Christmas is in the air at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. 
But just stop and think for a moment. There is a reason why every dorm and every class is having its Christmas formal the first weekend after Thanksgiving. There is a reason why every Christmas luncheon, every Christmas party, every Christmas play, every Christmas cookie, everything Christmas has to happen early In December. Even the beloved Christmas specials come on during the first week in December. (OK, maybe this one is unrelated). There is a reason. A mighty big reason. It is the grinch that stole Christmas at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. Yes, you've got It, it's the end-of-the-semester FINALS. 
Finals at Christmas time bring about a double blow. Students truly want to enjoy the Christmas season with the people who are like a second family. Even more so than the rest of the year, students are subjected to a terrible tension. While they want to enjoy the joy of Christmas, the beauty of the Savior's love, their conscience tells them to be solitary as they study for finals. We all know this is a long process, for it entails "catch up" work fiS well. Finals demand that studenrs put Christmas on hold. 
Aside from the frustration of balancing finals with Christmas, I've often wondered at the validity offinals. Finals seem to benefit the student who knows how to cram. Cramming may be beneficial for a grade, but it is definitely not a skill which should be brought into the "world after college." Few employers want an employee who sloughs off on a daily basis, but in the clinch, can throw a presenta· tion together. Chances are that the results will not be continuous quality. Therefore, finals tend to reward the person who can cram in 

the "pertinent information." 
Not only do finals put undue anxiety on the 
student, but they do not give incentive to the 
student who consistently works throughout 
the semester. The student who read Moby 
Dick in September is not going to remember 
the names of the seas Captain Ahab traveled. 
The student who "crammed" Cliff Notes has a 
greater chance. Sure, it can be argued that the 
student who is consistent learns more in the 
long run. This is wonderful, but final exams 
emphasize the short run! 
As idealistic as it sounds, it seems ·that it would be much more beneficial if students could review their notes, go into class, and write an essay about the most important thing they learned in the specified class. Alright, 1 already hear the arguments coming. Many majors require a degree of memorization. 1 realize nurses, doctors, engineers (to name a few) have to know specific facts. But how long after finals are you going to remember the specifics. Seventy-five percent of what we hear is forgotten within 24 hours. The human brain is only capable of memorizing so much. These specific facts will always be just a text book away. 
I know the world cannot stop because of 
Christmas. People must continue to work, stu­dents must continue to study. But, Christmas should not have to be put on hold until stu­dents get home Dec. 21. Students shouldn't have to cram in Christmas from Dec. I to Dec. 6, before cramming for finals. Perhaps some· how, some way, this year, the Christmas spirit ·can transcend the gloom of finals, just as the Who's down in Whoville overcame the mean· ness of the Grinch. Who knows, maybe our professors' hearts will grow a little larger too. 
jeanne Grammens is a senior government and communications major at Saint Mary's and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
r 
~ 
r ND students have priorities set in the wrong order 
r 
Quick · Who won the 1985 Nobel Peace r Prize? Bishop Desmond Tutu? Wrong year, he
r 
won It in 1984. Ronald Reagan? Mikhail Gor­
r 
bachev? Henry Kissinger? Good guesses, but all incorrect. The 1985 Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to the International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War. 
Kevin Mundy 

r 
heads in the sand 
r 
Recently, the co-rounder of this organiza­tion, Dr. James Muller, spoke here at Notre Dame. He spoke Wednesday at 3:30p.m. in front ofa group ofcertainly less than 200, per­
r haps less than 100. Although his talk was very r informative and Interesting, the real story lies r in the attendance figure. It shows that NO stu­r dents have chosen to Ignore the nuclear r threat, and the outside world at large. 
r 
I know the execuses; the refrain is an old 
r 
one. 

I 
, 
"Finals are coming up." r "Big test on Friday." "I bad a class." 
r 
How many who offered the last excuse
r 
r make their 8 o'clocks? The truth of the matter 
r is that many of these same students pressed for time took off 3 hours to watch the Bears game, or 2 hours off for the Irish-Indiana con­test, or 1 hour offfor "St. Elsewhere." Nuclear war simply is not as entertaining as Walter 
Doonesb 

l 
"the refrigerator" Perry or as exciting as Steve Alford. 
If Lou Holtz had spoken on Wednesday at 3:30, you can bet he would have drawn 2,000. Then again, Lou Holtz is a very funny person. There just aren't many laughs in radiation burns these days. Maybe Dr. Muller would draw better if he picked up a southern drawl and explained the veer offense. 
Yet Timothy Leary and Abbie Hoffman arrived and Washington Hall wa'> packed. Dr. Muller arrived and filled only one-half of a large classroom. Two people who reached their zenith of lnlluence 1 5 years ago draw many times more than a man responsible for winning this year's Nobel Peace Prize. But Dr. Muller never advocated LSD use, or mailed marijuana cigarettes to 5,000 New Yorkers. Perhaps this is where the interests of NO stu­dents really lie -in 1 5 year old tales ofdrug use and abuse. Is Timothy Leary a hero and Dr. Muller a nobody? 
It certainly seems that NO students have their priorities set -in all the wrong order. Hey, I'll admit it, I would've gone to see Lou Holtz too, had he appeared. But most people will not go see anyone but Lou Holtz. Therein lies the problem. There are many things besides football, and the madnt:ss known as the nuclear arms race is one of the most im­portant ofall 
The policy of willing ignorance that most students practice must change. Whether it is attending a lecture, listening to the news or, heaven forbid, reading something in a newspaper other than the sports and comics, the majority ofthe NO community must learn to take note of the outside world. 
In a few years all ofus will rejoin it, but only a few will recognize it. That's a sorry state­ment to make after spending four years at one of America's finer learning institutions, but a very accurate one. The University provides the opportunities, the students simply fail to utilize them. Let's hope this changes soon, for the benefit ofus all. 
Kevin Mundy is enrolled in the freshman year of studies at Notre Dame and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 

"lHANKG(XX)NE~ THEY'RE REQUIRING PRINTED LVR\C«;ON DIRlY RECa<DS NOWI I NEVER ~FIGURE. 0JT TIIESE ~10'LOUl£ LOUIE.',,... " .. 
Garry Trudeau 

Quote of the day 
"What great thing would you attempt ifyou knew you could not fail?" 
"ie~P.~O~i~n~t~------------------------------------------~F~r~id~ay~,~D~e~ce~m~b~e~r~6~,~~9~8~S~~p~ag~e~9 

Humans are too fallible to use the death penalty 
Unnecessary, legalized slaughter · that is just what the legalization of the death penalty has created. Since 1900, the death penalty has been issued 7,000 times. Why do we need capital punishment? There exists an al­ternative to capital punishment, one which will not infringe on our right to protection from criminals, one which will not reduce the effectiveness of our penal system and one which will not kill prisoners. It is time we join the rest ofthe Western world and end this bar­baric policy. 
Jeff Laurenson 
guest column 

One disadvantage of the death penalty is its complete permanence; one cannot be pardoned from the grave. A death sentence cannot be revoked, and so a case which is overturned five years after a sentence is ad­ministered cannot be corrected. An innocent man mistakenly is made to suffer the full con­sequence of the incorrect verdict. 
This is not a petty argument. A new study published in the New York Times on Nov. 14 asserts that in this century, 343 people have been convicted wrongly of offenses punishable by death, and 25 of these were er­roneously executed. Because it is run by human beings, a criminal justice system cul­minating in the death penalty is fallible. 
There is no denying the innocence ofsome of these men. In 32 of the said cases, it was proven that no crime had been committed, usually because the purported victim was found alive. There is no margin of error per­missible in capital punishment. I fear right now, there are as many as 50 innocent men on death row, and I claim that Christian ethics forbid the execution ofthese men. These men need our help to overturn the law which threatens to steal their right to live. 
Besides being fallible, the courts are also biased. An example is the detestable practice of giving blacks the death sentence more of­ten than whites for any given crime, probably because of the preconceived and untrue no­tion that blacks are more violent than whites. This is not a numerical comparison, but a percentage per homicide for each given race. Thus, the claim that one race commits more crimes than any other is irrelative. 
Another example is the reluctance to ex­ecute women, who only sporadically receive death sentences. The crux ofthis problem lies not in these examples, but they serve to il­lustrate the point: Human nature prevents us from making decisions impartially. Our back­ground, personal experiences and erroneous assumptions taint our decisions and prevent us from executing the law without personal interpretation. 
Each judge's personal rendition of the law creates a "margin of error" which is tolerable when dealing with jail terms but completely unacceptable when applied to capital punish­ment. 
We have established the existence of definite drawbacks concerning the death penalty. And yet there is no real benefit derived from its use. It is untrue that capital punishment serves as an effective deterrent. States with the death penalty see no sig­nificant decrease in homicides upon its enact­ment. 
Our nation experienced no detectable increase in homocides attributable to the ~Lbrogation of capital punishment during the period from 1967 to 1976, when the Supreme Court invalidated state capital punishment laws. It is inhuman to place a price tag on life. The cost of incarcerating a prisoner never should enter into the debate, because it is in­compatible not only with Christian ethics but also with the instinctive dictates of our better nature. 
It is unChristian to infer that a person deserves death. Life is something sacred, not to be violated by human hands; it is "rightfully to be taken away only by God." When the law punishes by death, it gives legal sanction to the unholy passion of revenge, one of the fre­quent motives ofmurder. Such a law becomes a, model for the individual who makes himself the avenger ofhis own wrongs: the murderer. 
Just as a citizen must place his grievances before the court, so the courts must in turn transfer the ultimate decision to the only im­partial justice: God himself. To act otherwise is to usurp our power and to carry out a mis­carriage of justice. 
Our laws are established to protect society. It is wrong to subject citizens to the potential danger a released killer represents. A man who kills must suffer consequences, and thus he forfeits his freedom. He does not, however, 1orfeit his life. There exists a potential sen­tence which could take the place ofthe death penalty: life without parole. 
This proposal would offer justice without the cost of human lives associated with the death penalty. Our laws must uphold the sanctity of life, and it is within our power to (:nact the above proposal. "Ifyou are not part of the solution, you are part of the problem." We must not settle for the present system. It is unacceptable and a an alternative exists which would alleviate the problem. 
jeffLaurenson is in the freshman year of studies atNotre Dame. 
Faust thanks ND family fo1r support over years 
To the Notre Dame student body: 
I h~Lve been asked if I would write a letter to the student body using The Observer as the means to reach you all. 
I am grateful for this opportunity and welcome the 1:hance to express my feelings. 
Gerry FaLust 

guest column 
It has been a great five years for me here at Notr(: Dame, and I will cherish the memories all the rest of my life. There have been many fun times, some joys and some sorrows, but they were shared with a class student body from :a class institution, and that means a lot to me. I regret that you are limited to only four years here, while I was fortunate in being able to have five. Cherish those four years. Get the most out of your education and take advantage of all that Notre Dame has to offer in so many w;tys. Many doors will be opened to you throughout your future because you are a part ofthis great institution. 
I would like·to thank the Notre Dame stu­dent body, administration, faculty and person­nel for the many kindnesses shown to me and my family over the past five years. 
I hope that Iwill always be remembered as a part ofthe Notre Dame family. God bless you always. 
Sincerely, 
Gerry Faust 

[ _ P.O. Box Q
·-----=---1 
South African tragedy canno1t be made trivial 
Dear Editor: 

What purpose did Professor DeSantis have in mind when he wrote to The Observer (Nov. 22)? South Africa, he tells us, is not the "only country in the world that still has an offi­cial system of racial discrimination." Was his intention to minimize the systematic institu­tional racism that makes South Africa unique? 
DeSantis goes on to assert that most black Africa'n states "have followed a government policy of anti-white discrimination." Tropical Africa.n countries, although they have many internal problems in the aftermath ofcolonial exploitation, have been noteworthy for their lack ofanimus towards whites. DeSantis' letter suggests he has not distinguished between processes ofA.fricanization and anti-white dis­crimination. 
Afrilcanization, quite properly, involved the withdraw! ofwhite colonial administrators as blacks took over their own countties. In fact, this diifficult transition has, for the most part, taken place in a context of exemplary tolerance towards resident white minorities. This was not only true in Kenya and the Ivory Coast, but in Lesotho, Swaziland, Botswana, Malawi, Zimbabwe, Tanzania, Mozambique, Angola, Zambiia, Ghana, Nigeria and Senegal. 
Th(: widespread presence of virulent anti­
Semitism in both Europe and the United States 
makes us insensitive to the terrible suffering 
of Jews in Hitler's Germany for far too long. 
Our history of racial discrimination in 
America can easily desensitize us on South 
Africal. This is why we are concerned that the 
tragedy eng(:ndered by apartheid is not 
trivialized by !facile and false comparisons. 
Margarita Rose Chairperson Notre DameAnti-ApartheidNetwork 
W,e rei!tlize the wisdom behind Christ's actions 
Dear Editor: 

Terry Kibelltis rides again. This time we are 
informed that Christ did not ordain women 

priests because he was, it is implied, some 
kind of social conformist -a veritable social 
consc::rvative. As we know from the gospels 
this hardly appears to be the case; Christ 
brok(:, indeed smashed, human tradition and 
custom when•ever and wherever he pleased. 
lbis is especially true of Christ's treatment 
ofwomen; he actively incorporated them into 
the work of his divine mission. We cannot 
ignore, nevertheless, the fact that when Christ 
instituted th(· sacrament of holy orders he 
chos(: not to include women, even those women he had incorporated in his ministry in other ways. We must respect the wisdom of this divine action. 
True, as Kibeltis says, Christ both founded and guided the daily inner workings of the Catholic Church by the work of the Holy Spirit through the descendants ofthe apostles. Precisely the point: it has been the constant and consistent teaching of these descendants that women not be ordained priests. All of us who, like Kibeltis, really believe the Holy Spirit is present in this one, holy, Catholic and apostolic Church should be consistent and hu'mbly submit to all the spirit's action there. 
But, it might be objected, is not the notion of an all-male priesthood hopelessly sexist? Does it not necessarily involve a conception of the Church as a "power structure" as Kelly Johnson in her letter of Nov. 19 claimed? Hardly. The Church as the mystical body of Christ is a unique entity for which there is no fitting sociological or political analogue; it is no more a democracy than it is a monarchy or an aristocracy or any other socio-political body. 
No one has the right to be a priest simply because he happens to be male. Any male who thinks he has such a right is sadly mistaken. Everyone in the priesthood who belongs there is there because he was called and, jn the final analysis, for no other reason. "You have not chosen me, but I have chosen you," as Christ told the apostles. 
I too, like Kibeltis, am all for the changes, which of course were not doctrinal, wrought by Vatican II through the guidance ofthe Holy Spirit. 
But it is a question of accepting the whole Vatican II and not the partial version of it, which is superficially consonant with the secularizing agenda ofvarious lay and clerical members ofthe present Church. It is precisely the task ofthe current extraordinary synod to see to it that the whole message ofthe council is taught and understood, not merely the parts ofit that are easily bent into the service ofthe latest political ideology, trend in pop psychol­ogy, sociological survey or false ecumenism that calls itself "Catholic," or for that matter, the reactionary pre-Vatican II "traditionalism" ofRich Coglianese types. 
Thomas D. D'Andrea Notre Dame graduate student 

Basis for judgements is bad point of decade 
Dear Editor: 
The saddest thing that can be said about the decade of the '70s is that it has produced people who judge a society by its television shows and their theme songs. 
Andrea Breuner Lewis Hall 


Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager. ..... Davtd Stephenttch 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan Controller ............... . .. Wtlltam J. Htghducheck News Editor ............................................. Frank Lipo Advertising Manager ............ Jtm Hagan 
The Observer ts the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Systems Manager .. .. .. Mark B. Johnson 
Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the 
Saint Mary·~, Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Production Manager ........ . .... John A. Men nell 
admtntstration of either institution. The news is reportEtd as accurately and objectively as pos­
Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb 
stble. Uns1gned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy 
tanes. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is 
Viewpoint Editor ...... .............................Joe Murphy
available to all members of the community and the 1'ree expression of varying opinions on 
Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches 
campus. through letters, is encouraged. 
Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Wolf Founded November 3, 1966 
The Observer Friday, December 6, 1985 -page 10 
Sports Briefs 
The ND men's swimming team opens its season tonJabt with the Notre Dame Relays at 7 p.m. in the Rolfs Aquatic Center of the ACC. -Tbe Observer 
The ND wrestling team will travel to Las Vegas, Nev. this weekend to take part In the Las Vegas Invitational. -The Observer 
Stepan Center job applications for student monitors on Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday evenings must be: taken today to the Student Activltes Office on the first ftoor of La Fortune. -Tbe Observer 
NVA Club and Grad basketball teams must 
tum in all necessary insurance forms to the NVA office in the ACC by today at 5 p.m. Rosters may be: picked up during this time. For more information call the NVA office.-Tbe Observer 
Classifieds 
The Off-Campus hockey team will hold practice Sunday at I I: IS p.m. in the ACC. All players should attend and bring $3 for ice time. for more information call Tim Connors at 234-I948.-Tbe Observer 
Women's basketball fans who wish to ptay an 
active and visible role in the I985-86 season should call Kevin at 2 39-72 SO to be a part of a progressive support group for the team. -
Tbe Observer 

The ND/SMC Gymnastics Club will hold its final practice ofthe semester today. All members should attend. For 'Pore information call284-S365.-The Observer 
Cross-Country skis are available for rent through NVA Tuesday through Saturday. Call NVA at 239-6IOO for times and prices. -The Observer. 
Irish 
continuedfrom page 16 

who now serves as Aquatics Direc­tor. 
In speaking of the fast­approaching season, Welsh hesitates to name potential standouts because it would be "too long a list." But he did mention junior butterflyer Suzanne Devine had the fastest times last year. The four freshman also "look very solid," according to Welsh. 
For leadership, W dsh can look to his co-captains, Vennette Cochiolo ofSanta Maria, Calif., and P.}. Amberg ofEast Hartford, Conn. 
Welsh also will look for strong performances from returning veterans Andrea Bonny of Columbus, Ohio, Mary Amico of South Bend, and Colleen Ambrose of Oakbrook, Ill., to strengthen the team's diving program. 
Devine, a native of Ann Arbor, Mich., is the team's most versatile swimmer. She holds I I school records in the butterfly, freestyle, and breaststroke events as well as the relay teams. 
Julie Boss of Auburn, Maine, and Amy Darlington of Fairfield, Ohio, figure to contribute to the sprinting strength ofthe team. 
Th.-Obsen·t•r -.;otrt· l>dmt· otfkt· ltll'dtnl on tht· th•rtl floor of l.•~ortunt· ~tutlt·nt <t·nter. d<<<"P" tld'"fktl dtl\ .-r1 "'"!(from') • m unttl 1 p m .\tontld\ throul(h J·ntl..t\ I ht• (JhSt'TI't'r ·'"'"I \Jdn ·, ollitt' lot Jlt·d on tht· third floor of lldl(l(dr <ollt'l(t· I t•ntt-r. d<tt·pt' tiJ"Ifit·d, In >m 12 ~o p m until ~ p m . .\ton dd\ lhoul(h I ndd\ I kdllilnt· lor nt"'t dd\ tld,'lfinh " ~ p m .\II da'"ftnh mu't ht· pn·pa1tl. t'lth.-r 111 pt·r,on or 1)\ null I hdrl(t' " to, t'nh p.-r fh ,. ,·h•rat 
tt·r, rr tla\ 
NOTICES 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 2J4-IIW7 
EXPERT TYPINO 277~53-4 AFTER 5:30 
HELP WANTED $80.00 PER HUNDRED PAID IO< pr.,._ng mall at home! lntormahon. 
-Nll-addr.-.d. atamped lfflefope. AaMJaatM. Boa 115, Roeelle. -JerMy 07203 
.utiNUSIX.......INC. WOI'dpr~ng and typing 272-8827 
1'YPWG
an-• 
FRII PICKUP & DIUVIRY 
FEDERAL. STATE AND CIVIL SERVICE JOBS NOW AVAILABLE IN YOUR AREA. FOR INFO. CALL (1102) 637-3401 OEPT.13611. 
································································ 
PRO-TYPI • Ov• 11 ,.._ ap. lpec:Wizlng In lltUclent pepera. <1• 
--'-·............ .....,__ 277­1111. 
ANGELO? OOAK1 ANOELO? OOAK! ANGELO? OOAK! 
LOST/FOUND I 
FoUN.i:'A•~·~·~~-~·~~ 
front of the Noire Dame Poet Office. May be claimed In Room II-f II Fitzpatrick 0< by calling 2311-«181. 
Losr·--:--··auROu'Nov..··ai·N::a···eve 
GLASSES BETWEEN THE GROTTO BUS STOP AND FLANNER. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL THERESAAT284-4128. 
L.OiT:'A';;;·;;;·~·;;;;;;;j;~ 
~n a a.... <>«*nd --II 
found, ,._.<*! 41•. Thenlul. 
Holiday Special 
50¢ off 
Send a Christmas personal to a friend. •• 
Jult bring In thla coupon and recefve 50 cenfl oft• • your next claulfled ad order. One coupon per order (order lnclud81 •• total days ad Ia to run). Offer explr81 Dec. 12, 1915. 

STOLEN BLACK WAllET: There ia not· hing of vlllue left in It alnce I cancelled d the plutic and there wa no tnofMiy. Save """"aemblance of dacancy and eave me further h....., by juel returning it. And if you we caught atealing anything e1ae at the new pool you can upec1 no mercy. l•v•It at Joel and found "" if anyone hae found a blect< w•t -pleMe <*I ma 0< drop it of!. STEVE 24511117 Pangborn 
'ba the aHeOn fO< loeing thinga... THERE ARE TWO THINGS I HAVE LOST RECENTLY THAT ARE CRUCIAL FOR MY SURVIVAL ON THIS CAMPUS AT THIS TIME OF YEAR: 1. AN NO CREDIT U..ON AUTCHII.LIII IIIACHINI CAIIO. You know you c.nl e-1 money oul of my account .....,.. you don't have the eecret ace.. no. I do, and I need thai card! a. AN LLIIIANGLOVI, LIFT HANO. lt'a navy on the bed<. dirty grey on the front, light blue lnlng. Take pity on my freezing lelt hand! IF FOUND, PLIAal RETURN TO PAULA MIRANDA.(I'M IN THE DIRECTORY.) 
THANKS SO MUCHIIII! 
LOST: Someoneacddently picked up my long, tan(-). wool COlli from lhe coat room 811helyone-Farley-Aiumni Form81. II you noticed you got lhe wrong one, ~call Mo: X3023, X2llllll. 0< X21l98. 
LOIT: CALCULATOR IN IIU.CK POUCH AT NOIITH DINING HALL MONDAY, DIC.2.1F FOUND, PLIEAR CALL 1123.1 NIID IT FOil FINALS. 
FOUND: one WATCH in Bridgel8 on the Friday before the LSU game. c.1t 1023 to claim it. 
FOUND SAINT MARY'S RING-CAll PASQUALE AT THE COMMONS TO IDENTIFY. 
LOST: IF YOU WERE AT ALUMNI'S FORMAL NOV 23. YOU MAY HAVE MY COATtt MY FRIEND PICKED UP A WOMEN'S LONG BEIOE WOOL COAT WHICH LOOKS A LOT UKE MINE. IF YOU HAVE A SIMIL.AR•COAT WITH IIROWM TRIM AND BROWN BUTTONS PLEASE CALL 2M-5543 OR !552e. I HAVE YOURS! 
fttLOST POCKET WATCH Itt Oilt From Utile ale IO< b-.-y MUCH Sentimental Value. Can't go home without lt. IIOOZE and BUCKS REWARD Ill Loa1 ,_ Stepen. P'-<*I BAlAN 2118-5521. 
FOUND: One llem-up blue aophomore bual..-major'a nolellook. Conllllne l)re9llml, Mle 00* and needl. and ICheO.Jiea. Are you looldng lor thla? c.1t 1373.11efore your Mle,... apwt. 
LOST: NOTRE DAME CLA88 RINO ON PATH IIETW£EN HURLEY AND NIT BUILDINO IN THE SNOW CALL SCOTT 4075 REWARD OFFERED 
LOST: HELP I I toM my.-.... and now I can't -· They have gald. me111 tram. and ailghdy tinted ...... The .-.... -•Inalofi.<Mrl< brown-· II you find them, pleue.,.. Joe..3404. ~­
FOUND: DNI IIROWN HilL, FOUNO ON THIITI... OF LA FOIITUNI c.ll 2710. 
LOST MISSINO LOST MISSINO LOST Red Folder miealng from South Dining 
HaM 
FOUND FOUND FOUND FOUND FOUND FOUND FOUND OOLO LADIES QUARTZ WATCH BETW£EN WALSH AND HAYES-HEALY CALL DAN AT 
2555 
Le»r: QENIROU• REWARD OF 
FOUND 

Dletlncllve .-ey/wfllte patterned 
._..._ lOIII fl.-.t ---ol 
Nov....... "'-a COI'II8Ct T-lit 28.11116 , leeve ,_... lit 23. 
1315. 
FOR RENT 

FO< next lfO!Tieater lurniahed houae 5 bedrooma good area 1 mile north of N.D. 277-3604 
Nice lurniahed hom•tO< next achool y­277-3604 
Nice aemi·furnlahed houaein good ,.;g~~. 
borhood '"" 3 -255-3684. 
one male roommate n-at N.D. Apta.. Only $107/month. FO< mO<e Info. call Curt at 232-7547 0< Shi~ey at N.D. Apta. 
Mille hou ..mate(a) needed to ahare· ex­penaee 2nd aemeater. rent: illl0­100/month plua food & utilti• location: 711 Rex St. call Mike 0< Kevin at :133­5715 
3 BORM APT. AVAILABLE. MILE FR,OM NO. CAll233-7631. 
6 BEDROOM HOME.CLOSE TO CAMPUS.272-6306 
WANTED 

SEEKINO FEMALE ROOMMATE AT 
N.D. APTS. $112/mo. PLEASE CAll LIZ 288-8110 
WANTED: All apartmentiO< two guye IO< apring ..me.rer. Wil take either a two­penon 0< a lour-perwon J*e. Preler Cempua View but wll llll<e olher. c.1t Mikeat3342. 
Rlderw nM<led to NORTH JERSEY lor Chriatma break. can leave 0-.nber 18 ""19. cell MIChele 277-4364. 
NEED one male roommate lor next -·T·Jrtle Creek. Call277-21 t 6. 
FORSALE ] 

TOYOTA CEUCA 75, RUNS VERY 0000. SOME RUST, $400 OR BlEST OFFER. CALL IONACIO 277-oao:J. 
Go X .._~hopping thtu Amooey Slinta 1 coming I ..,perfume atereoa jewelry diet drtnka ooemetic:a 10 epeed blk.. money bed< lllJW1I ntM <*I Matt •tAMext 7183 234-2000 
o.r.g.tO< rent 40$/month 5 min from nd 2 cer gar.gtt 1 block -of c:ampua view ,_london Lake 272-34111 
OEPENOA8LE TRANSPORTATION 1978 CHEVETTE, $1400. 272-8827. 
Good dMI on new 125-p/channet 
apMkera •!liquid cooled --·Beet 
offer. c.lt Kevin-3311. 
BLAUPUNkT CAR STEREO, POWER IIOOSTER, EQUALIZER, 4 SPEAKERS. GREAT PACKAGE DEAL. CAll EVENINGS. 2811-4342. 
80 HONDA CIVIC, 5-SPEED, VERY GOOD CONDITION. DEPENDABLE. $2200 CAll2689 AFTER 5. 
ONE WAY PLANE TICKET DEPARTING O'HARE 7:51PM ON 12/20 CRASHING AT ISLIP MACARTHUR MUST SELL CHEAP-CHEAP 4Q-69$ CAll OAWG 3718WOOF> 
························ 
IDEAL CHIIITMAS GIFT Rembrandt E..,...._t ~tor 118111rotn lnlte luy lit Dining Halallt dlnnw on Tu.._, Dec.10& W.t., Dec 11. ltudent Oi-nt Price: SI.OO (tu ,,.. eluded) 
TICKETS 
LOYDU C1Aa lor .....272-413011 
NEED 13UCKS FOR A CHRISTMAS PRESE~IT FOR MY BABY SISTER. BUY MY BASKETBAll SEASON TIXI!!!!! CALL TONY 
1028 

PERSONALS 
························· 
The cmly thingth•t •h•llero dreatM ia compromiae. 
-Richard Bach, The llrfcltle...,_ F-er 
OAR HOUSE: COLO BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N., 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
PREGNANT? 
NIIDHILP? Call 234-o383. 24-hr. holline, counaeting & ,,..pregnancy teata. 
WOIIIN'I CAlli CINTIR 
Ewn $$$ '"" a1 lhoae· boolca you didn't rMdfl P·ANDORA'S wll buy your ueed boolca lj.F 11-4. or we can help you lind a ueed book IO< a dMa. We're open M-F 11­6, SAT,& f!UN 1Q-5. PANDORA'S fa op­poelte CORBY'S atll37 Soulh Bend Ave. 
FOR SALE NAD 8040 CASSETTE OECK-EXC CONO CALL 288· 65211(1201 DIAMONDJ 
D.C. X·MAS .UI Slgn-upa Mon. 12/ll 2nd Floor LaFortune, 7-8pm S68 Ret Trip ?'a <*ll(evln Viroelek at10112 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE. 
HUNORY? c.1t YELLOW SUBMARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery Houra: Wed-Thura 5pm-12am; Friday 5pm-2am; Salurcley 3pm-1am; Sundlly4pm-10pm 
HAY FEVER 
HAY FEVER 
HAY FEVER 
CATCH ITI O'LAUGHUN AUDITORIUM THRU5­0AY. FRIDAY, SATURDAY, BE THERE! 
Chttllt-Nazz Clttl--Nazz ChrtM-Nazz Friday, 7 p.m. Chautauqua S.There 
Hey Kriatin! Jull wanted to wiah you a "Merry Chnatmaa"1 Love, Secrel Santa. And lola of love to d the cub.. on ~e seventh floO< ol P. E. !! 
lhe ~zard ahed another al<in over break. HAPPY BIRTHDAY LIZARD WOMAN I'll you'dliketowiah lhiareplileahappy 18111. Cllll4064, and Uk IO< the LIZARD. 
Earth cdlng S. 
2 dayato 1)0. Can you make it? 
love. Ua 
awe. 
....Luck lhia year!! lb>& 'Niece 
We'l atop lhll peraonal otuff befO<e we give awey too much. ilyou'M prom•• to do theaame. We love you!! C&D 
TONY DAWSON-Good luck tomorrow!! 
HEAVE HOltz Remember, you heard it herelirat! 
SHOEHEAD IS COMING 
Noiae muaic newatener aaya "NO" to groupe like Duran Duran, Wham!. and Phil Collina. Noise aaya YES to groupe like lhe Replacements, Huaker Du, Run­O.M.C., and R.E.M. Watch IO< the firat nsaue of lhia puppy ewly next -(we uaed to be called Communiat lbg From Hell. but got bored woth th81 name). II you're intereeled in helping ua. cd Pal at 4506 0< Tim at 1243. Tal<e that, Huey Lewia!!! 
You've aean them. You've heard about them. Now you can get them> HOOP HYSTERIA T-SHIRTS IO< Logan Center ahort ""long ......... Cell 2078 0< 2089 IO< delivery. 
And it'a rrue -ere immune when feet ia tidon, T.V. -reality And today the mlflona cry We eat and drink while torrrom!w they die ua 
ST. JUDE ha more important thinga to worry about man your Concepts of Modem Sdence quiz. LMve him lllonto. 
Andre 

WhatdoM today hold in Stohr? A birthday IO< a aporta god? GIRLS· You owe thla man a pr-nl... HAPPY BIRTHDAY GREG 
................................................................ 
SONYA LECOUNT-HAPPY 8-0AY HONEY!! HOPE YOUR 8-DAY IS JUST AS WONDERFUL AS YOU AREit! YOUR FRIEND IN PASOUERILLA 
IILO: You ••a wondarlul pereonl Thanll 
you ao much'"" returning my 10 and etc. 
Let ma know who you .,.and I'M buy you 
a !hank you drtnk at Sr.llar. laJra 
CARL (You've got an anttude pr_,) OEBO and JOE (You're not aa cynical a you think) BASQUE: Ace LSATat Ace LSATal 481481481 
MON PETIT CHOU: SURPRISE! SURPRISE! HERE'S THE PERSONAL YOU'VE BEEN WAITINO SO LONG FORt JE T'AOORE ... TON PETIT CHOU 
Kathy Dolan, Even though ydu're EE. We hope you cen apend your birthday mernly. Even though you·re EE. The parti• won'tatop, jull-tand aea. Even though you're EE. Thel..ta wold end evenludy Even though you're EE. The beet ol tnendrl we'M -Y11 be And even though you're EE. And our poetry at>nka··lrl dada dee Thll Happy Birthday comeelrom all of we. And REMEMBER: You'M bench. While pOO< we'M lt>l be ! 
MARTINA NAVRATILOVA called to wlah her levorite Hooaier e very happy 20th birthday. Checi< oul thoae Thortoea! 
Sieve. How's the SYSTEM? 

PERFECT CHIUITMAS GIFT FOil 11011 & DAD lnlte'a Rembrandt ·~ 
~1M 11M 

ltudent Price: SI.OO (tu lnduded) Pu...,.,_llt Dining Halallt cllnnw on Tua, Dec.10 & wed.• Dec.11. 
TO THE GIRL AT THE 7:00 w..r S>de StO<Y WED. NIGHT weanng 1 purple coat, p>nk pant•. and a Michil}an aWMI· ahirt: I want to meet you. c.lt m.-The Tickettaker--212-6183 
Men of Notre Dame -BECCA, KEllY. 
JOY. EllEN. DIANE, BETH, KRIS, and 
LIZ of tat floor Farley won'l be .-ng 
any heellhia winter. They're hoi-blooded 
creatur... Smoldering eyea. Steamy 
am>lee. Watch IO< them. They have no 
marcy. 

CHERE MARIANNE. Moby Duck dit "Quack, Quack!" Groaea bl-•uaa 
Sorry Mayo: il'l a ahame you leel hke a lith, but what cen you do? Where'a my mail? Ate we having lun yet? E. 
ANOELD--THE ITALIAN-JEWISH TRADITION LIVES 
...................................... Q:HOW DO YOU MAKE ANGELO FALL DURINO THE WINTER? A:PUT A PENNY ON A ICE PATCH 
TO THE SHY GIRL FROM MONDAY NIGHT: CALL ME BETWEEN 1:00 AND 
4:00. I PROMISE I'll BE HOME THIS TIME. 
.UFFALO CLU. CHRIITIIAI •u1 ta HIREI$50 ROUNOTRIPISIGNUPS ARE MONDAY &-BPM & WEDNESDAY 3:30­5:30PM LAFORTUNE 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY JANE ANNE WEL­DON You we a larl}e, hateful memmat: and, furlhermor•. I adore you. 
WANTED: MALE Dartt Hair, 5'4"-5'8" 135-150 lbe, MO<ally Cuual AntiUde c.lt Bubblea 41 eo 
SWEET PAULA BAllANTINE Oood luck on LSA TSI You're )ammin't Ja Love. Sheila and Steph 
Happy 20th Ann Nora! Have a w-t dey ­we'M mi• you next -rer -keep In touch. Love Alwaye. CUey and Cohen 
The Obserwr Friday, December 6, 1985 -page 11 

1bc Obsc:'t \·er/Hannn Hacker 

Sophomore point guard David Rivers drives ,against tbt! tou,gi.J Indiana defense in Tuesday's game. On Saturday the Irish willface Loyola, which bas already upset North Carolina State. Nick Schrantz previews the game below. 



Santa Claus is coming to town 
(Do him a favor and give hiiD a taal) 
~~ 1M· -HAWAfAN 
~~ sun tonnrg solerl 
J.M.S. PLAZA 

latro Pkg. Spec. 4609 Grape Road $21.95 Mishawaka 
(Gift Certificate Available) 277-7026 
Students anticipate Holtz era with optimism and confidence in future 
By MICHAELJ. CHMDEL 
Sports Writer 
The hiring of Lou Holtz as the 25th head coach of Notre:: Dame has gone well-recognized throughout all of college football. Holtz's hiring has drawn attention from the media, peers, alumni and fans across the country. 
Student reaction on the Notre Dame campus has likewise been strong as students are experiencing the end ofone era and the beginning of another for Notre Dame football. 
"The whole Faust era was cc:n­tered around inconsistency," ex­plains Zahm junior Joe Fontana. "It was the inconsistency that drove people crazy. With Holtz, we're hoping to receive an era of consis­tency, week in and week out." 
With the change in coaches, most students believe that Notre Dame football will once again achieve lthe success and the prominence that it has been known for throughout the years. If for no other reason, many believe the change will rc:sult in new philosophies and methods directed at winning. 
"lt"s a good move because you're getting new blood into the system and a coach who has had experience at the college level," Carroll senior Pat Tynan believes. "Having had a good deal of experience at the col­lege level, he will also be able to handle the players well." 
Experience at the collegiate level, the one commodity that Faust lacked, is undoubtedly the key reason behind the apparent ap­proval of Holtz by students. Secon­
dary  to  experience  would  be  
motivation.  
"It  was  definitely  a  time  for  

change after what we went through with Faust," says junior Dan Manier who will be experiencing his fourth Irish coach as a South Bend native. "Lou has a lot ofcollege experience, and I believe that is a prc:requisite to coach at Notre Dame because it's such a great college program." 
"It's a real good move because he's been successful at other places," adds freshman -Chuch Roach. "I think that motivation is the key, and he's a good motivator." 
The bottom line in any com­petetive event, however, is success which is achieved through winning. Based on his record, students believe that Holtz will bring in a new system which will soon result in more pluses in the victory column. With a new system and tough scheduling, most realize that while success is initially possible, two or three years might lapse before it is achieved. 
"He's going to have to build," says Breen-Phillips sophomore Kitty Duffy. "He's coming in here fresh and he's got a lot ofpressure on him. But he also has a lot ofgood players. With the players and his coaching ability, I think that he'll be able to work it up to a winning team." 
"I really can't see how he could not be successful," explains junior Paul Laughlin who led Alumni to this year's interhall football crown. "This is a great school for athletics. The talent is here, he has the ability to recruit other talent, and he's shown his ability as a coach." "He could go 8-3 next year, and that's pretty successful," adds Laughlin. "Within two or three years, he ought to be able to build a good team of his own." 
While success is quantified in wins on the field, it is also estimated in other ways, according to student body president Bill Healy who believes that Holtz will succeed otf the field as well. 
"The measure of success is not al­ways wins and losses," says Healy. "There's great hope that there will be a lot more wins in the coming future, but once again, that's not the only measure ofsuccess. I think that Lou Holtz will be successful in the other ways as well. One of the ways is in the classroom where he has al­ready stressed the importance of academics for his players. 
"I think that Lou Holtz (also) has integrity," continues Healy. "He will be able to continue what Gerry Faust started as far as integrity in col­lege football at Notre Dame is con­cerned." 
Under question in Minnesota, however, is the new coaches' amount of integrity and dedication, due to his abrupt departure. On the Notre Dame campus, however, most believe that there is no question as he always wanted to lead the Irish on the field. 
While most would not want the same thing to happen at Notre Dame, his move, many believe, should have been anticipated by the clause in his contract that allowed him to leave the Gophers for the Irish spot. 
"He always wanted to coach here," explained Zahm sophomore Roberto Cano. "They allowed him to come here by giving him that clause." 
"In a way I'm happy that he's com­ing here, but in a way, it's hard to go back to Minnesota," adds sop­homore Tom Hagerty, a Kilkenny, Minn., native. "They really don't hate Notre Dame, but the people up there think that Notre Dame stole their coach. They understand the clause, but they don't like the idea of losing a good coach. 
"I wouldn't want to see such a stipulation in his contract at Notre Dame because you don't want to see a coach that is successful leave early or in the middle of his contract," Manier continues. "It was good for us, and hopefully, it'll be good for them." 
While it is doubtful that the such a clause will be present in Holtz's con­tract with his new employer, most of the Notre Dame student body doubt that he will fail here. 


And save 10%! The perfect gift for everyone on your list is a Gift Certificate from Fiesta Hair Fashions. Available in any amount, they can be used for all· services or retail products! Or ... buy one for yourself and save! For the month of December, receive a 10% discount off of the face value of the certificate* {a $25 Gift Certificate will cost just $22.50)! Great hair doesn't have to be expensive! 
Offer ends 12/24/85 


Loyola 
continuedjrompage 16 
regular season titles, while finishing 
second the other three times. 
Last season Loyola surprised many people by posting a 27-6 record and capturing both the MCC regular season and tournament champion­ships. The Ramblers proceeded to defeat both lona and highly regarded SMU in the NCAA Tourna­ment, before giving runner-up Geor­getown a big scare during their season ending 65-53los:s. 
Part of the reason for the Ramblers' downfall this season was the loss to graduation of Alfredrick Hughes, the leading all-time NCAA scorer and a first-round draft choice of the NBA's San Antonio Spurs. Loyola also graduated starters Andre Battle and Greg Williams. 
Returning to direct the charge for Loyola is 5-9 senior point guard Carl Golston. Despite his small size, Golston has received a lot of preseason acclaim as one of the top guards in the Midwest and the country. 
Last year, Golston poured in 14.8 points a game while also dishing out 305 assists for an NCAA le:ading average of9.2 per contest. 
With the loss of Hughes and Battle, Golston has been forced to pick up some of the scoring slack. Thus far this year the Chicago native has pumped in 1 7 points a game while still distributing about six as­sists in each contest. 
Phelps is one ofthe rnany cmLches around the country who has seen Golston and come away impressed. 
"Carl Golston has to be regarded as one of the best guards in the country," Phelps exclaimed. "He makes things happen for them, and is one guy who can explode. 
"I think Golston has the same kind 
ofpenetration and same type ofplay 
action as David Rivers, so that's 
going to be an interesting matchup," 
Phelps commented. 
Rambler center Andre Moore is the squad's only other returning starter and their only consistent force on the front line. The 6-9 junior led the MCC last year in both rebounding ( 10.3 per game) and blocked shots, while also chipping in with 11 points per contest. 
This year, Moore has been one of the few bright spots for the Ramblers, as he's exploded for a team leading 19.8 points a game and just under 1 0 rebounds. 
The Irish will have a decided 
height advantage along the front 
line, but the threat of Moore con­
cerns Phelps. 
"Moore has proven what he can 
be as a big time player for Loyola," 
Phelps stated. "Andre Moore has 
been a force inside for them. We're 
going to have to work hard to keep 
him otf the boards. That'll be one of 
the keys." 
Junior guard Bernard Jackson has been Loyola's only other regular starter this year, and has contributed with 9.4 points each game. Accord­ing to Phelps, the 6-3 transfer from Witchita State will give the Irish trouble because of his good outside shooting. 
Sullivan has experimented with his starting lineup this season, espe­cially at the forward spots. Ivan Young, 6-6, and Nate Brooks, 6-4, have started lately and performed well, wi~h Brooks, a sophomore, grabbing 24 rebounds in the last two games while Young, a senior, has added scoring punch and ex­perience. 
Juniors Mike Cenar and Bobby Clark, along with freshman Gerald Hayward, provide the Ramblers with competitive bench strength. 
Sullivan has been disappointed with his team's play thus far this season, especially after the loss to New Orleans. He blames much ofhis team's problems on a listless attitude and lack of intensity, which has caused Loyola to be outrebounded in most oftheir losses. 
Despite their poor record, the Ramblers shoud give the Irish a good game and provide the fans with some interesting match-ups to watch. 
Golston will go up against David Rivers in a battle of two top point guards. Each player directs their team's fast break, can drive to the inside, and can also put the ball in the basket from the outside. 
The Irish front line of Tim Kempton, Ken Barlow, and Donald Royal have a big height advantage over their Rambler counterparts. Brooks, Young, and especially Moore have proven they aren't afraid to take the ball to the basket and score, but the combination of their small size and the tough Notre Dame rebounders should give the Irish a large advantage on the boards. 
Loyola has shown that they can score, but they have had trouble in keeping their opponents from doing likewise. Thus, tomorrow's game should showcase two good offenses, with the likely winner being the team that plays the best defense and controls the boards. 
The Observer page 12 

The Obec-rvcr/Hannes Hacker 

Notre Dame defenseman Mike McNetl/ (22), along with co-captain Bob Thebeau as the J'rish shoum here in action against Lake Forest, wtll start battleAlabama-Hrmtsvtl/e tonight at the ACC. 
Irish split series against Air Force, to face Alabama-Huntsville today 

By DENNIS CORRIGAN 
Sports Writer 
It will be Freshman Night tonight at the ACC when the Notre Dame hockey team plays the first ofa two­game series with the Chargers of Alabama-Huntsville. The first 500 freshman admitted will receive 22­ounce mugs. Admission is free with a student ID card. 
The Irish come in to this weekend's action with a record of 5­8-1 after splitting a pair of games at Air Force last weekend, winning Friday 8-6 and losing 6-5 in overtime on Saturday. Head coach Lefty Smith, although satisfied with the split, would have liked more. 
"When we left here Thursday," Smith said, "I would have been happy with a split. But after we won the first game, I got a little greedy." 
The Irish could have fulfilled their mentor's wish Saturday, but they watched a 3-1 lead evaporate. The Irish tied the game at five in the waning moments of regulation after pulling out goaltender Tim Lukenda, but the Falcons denyed hopes of a comeback. 
Friday nights game was more of a shootout. Notre. Dame broke out to an 8-3 lead and then eased to the vic­tory. Brent Chapman scored twice and added four assists to come"wit-
Ditka upset with Miami crowd noise 
Mike Ditka discovered two things in the Orange Bowl Monday night. 
I. His Chicago Bears will oc­casionally lose a game. 
2. Hostile crowds make noise. 
While the Bears were losing their first game in 1 3 stans to the Miami Dolphins, they were also delaying the game 9 minutes and 20 seconds (by National Football League count) when the crowd noise kept quaner­back Steve Fuller from calling audible signals. 
Ditka said later the rules specify that if the home team and the home team's coach can't quiet the crowd, then an unsportsmanlike penalty can be assessed, 
"But the officials are scared," he said. "How are you going to penalize Miami at Miami? A penalty could stop it. A penalty is part of the op­tion. I've never seen it used. But it is their third and final option." 

hin one point of Phil Whittlift's 16­year-old record for points in a game. 
The Chargers come into this weekend's series with a record of 3­5 after beating Lake Forest last weekend, a team the Irish beat and tied. Third-year coach Doug Ross returned 18 letterman to a squad that finished 21-7-1 last year. The Chargers hold a 3-2-1 record in their games with the Irish who handed them 10-4 and 8-4 beatings last year at the ACC. 
Notre Dame will hopefully welcome back co-captain Bob Thebeau to the blue line this weekend. Thebeau has been out with a leg injury for the past four games. 
Because ofthe steady play ofMike McNeill, Coach Smith had an­ticipated a tough decision on what to do when Thebeau returned, but it Smith stated. "We're going to dress seven defensemen this weekend to protect ourselves in case Thebeau can't go. We'll dress 11 fowards. John Nickodemus will be moving to center on the fourth line. He played 
apparently  was  easier  then  he  
thought.  
"McNeill  wiJl  stay  at  defense,"  

there last year before moving to left wing. We had kept him there this year because he did such a line job for us." 
With both Thebeau and McNeill, whose 22 points lead the team in scoring, the Irish defense should better protect against teams from making the type of comeback that }ill Force accomplished. 
Face off for both gamc:s this weekend is 7:30. These will be last two home appearances for the Irish untilJanuary. 

STUDY IN EUROPE 
The University of Louvain (est 1425), Leuven, Belgium offers COMPLETE PROGRAMMES IN PHILOSOPHY FOR THE DEGREES OF 
B.A, M.A. AND Ph.D. plus A JUNIOR YEAR ABROAD lf>ROGRAMME 
All courses are in English  ~·,  
Tuition is 11.500 Belgium Franks (:t:$250)  ~~~ \  
wnte to:  Seaet.-y Engusn Programmes  &  ...  
K U leUV;~·,.... Marcoerple•n 2.  s-JOCC LeuYen. Belg•um  \~~/  

• 

What Should Catholics Know About...
•
•
• 

•
• 

PRAYERFR. JOliN DUNNE , 
SACRAMENTS 
I I I 

FR. ANDRE LEVEILLE 
SCRIPTURE and TRADITION MORALITY • FR. 
FR. 
HONK MALLOY 

CHURCH

---·--------FR. TOM O'MEARA 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 
DAN JENKYe
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 

TilE CATIIOLIC FAI'nJ PROGRAM will present these speakers and topics on SUNDAYS (January 19 -February 16 in. Keenan -Stanford Chapel) and again on TUESDAYS (January 21 -February 18 in Keenan -Stanford and Walsh llall Chapels) ••• 7 -8:30 P.M. 
Pre-registration Necessary •••deadline December 9th 
Contact: OFFICE OF UNIVERSITY MINISTRY Memorial Library -239-6536 Badin llall Office -239-5242 

South Bend: Buyers Market Place 5901 N. Grape Road MishaU'aka. indiana .J65.J5 


---------~-------------------~ 

SINGLE~~~ 
45's only$ 1-.69 12" only $4.59 
IMPORTS 
HuskerDu only S 6.99 Suicidal Tendencle1 S 6.99 Black Flag only S 6.99 Beggar's Banquet Sample only 8 5.99 

r-------------------------------------~----------------------------------------------------­
The Observer 


22 oz_ mugs to the first 500 freshmen ar the game 
Let's Support N.D.! Blue-Line Club! 
Play Freshmen Class "Score-0" 
Friday, December 6, 1985 -page 13 
SMC basketball relies on veteran forward Kreber to lead young team 
By CHRISTINE FORTIN 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's basketball team will be participating in the Goshen Tournament this weekend with senior co-captain Beth Kreher con­tributing leadership and talent to the effort. 
Kreber, a Columbus, Ohio native, has been playing basketball since fifth grade and has coached a high school summer league team for two years. Her senior year in high school she was elected co-captain, was named to the all-league team .and received District Honorable Men­tion. 
This is Kreher's third year playing forward for the Belles. Her junior year at Saint Mary's she was elected captain and received the MVP award. "Beth is an excellent leader by example on and off the court," commented Coach Marvin Wood. "That is important to the team and to the coach. She is a quality player." 
Kreber, the only senior playing for the Belles this year, said that her role as a team leader is significant be­cause the team is so young with nine freshman comprising the majority of the players. Kreher also said that the freshman look up to all the up­perclassmen simply because the older players have more experience. 
The Belles have played only two games into the season and Kreber has 12 rebounds, 8 steals, 5 assists, 
Focus On America's Fut 
~--~ 

and has hit I 7 of 39 from the field_ She is near the top of the stats in all the categories. Last year Kreher was the number-one rebounder and number-two scorer for the team. 
"Beth has excellent quickness and a good shooting range. She is one of the best defensive players," com­mented Wood. "She has excellent anticipation and senses the op­ponents' next moves. She's the first to practice and the last to leave -a coach's dr~am." 
Kreber is excited about this year's team. "We're more competitive this year and everyone gets along very well," she said. "Coach Wood recruited this year and we showa lot of promise, but we'll have to work," added Kreher. 
The Belles have their work cutout for them this weekend at the Goshen Tournament. 
"The teams participating in the tournament (DeFiance, Goshen, and Franklin) are class teams," said Wood. DeFiance was ranked No. 12 in the nation in the NAIA division last year, Goshen has a 5-0 record, and Franklin boasts a solid group of sophomores from last year. 
The Belles play their first game of 
the tournament at 6:00p.m. Friday. 

MOVIE RENTAL CLUB 
CLOCK TOWER SQUARE 
53400 U.S. 31 I 33 NORTH ( v, mole north of North Village Mall) 
GRAND OPENING SPECIALS PROMOTION GOOD THRU NOVEMBER 30th ALL MOVIES ONE PRICE! 
,-----------------,
1 st s1 s1 s1 ~ 
I One Dollar Off II 3 day rental : 
I uplres December 31, 1985 I
L..------------·-----1 
Thanks to you... • 
it works._. 
for ALL OF US ..,._,_, 

Michigan 
continuedfrom page 16 
openings we have and take the shots." 
Sophomore guard Mary Gavin scored nine points and dished off four assists for Notre Dame, while Bunek and Sandy Botham finished the game with eight points apiece. 
The lead bounced back and forth 
in the first half, as Lorea Feldman lit 
up the scoreboard with 12 points for 
Michigan and grabbed four 
rebounds. Bunek's 16-foot jumper 
with one second remaining gave the 
Irish a 35-34 edge heading into the 
locker room. 
From that point forward, call it the 
Trena Keys show. 
Keys took the ball to the basket a 
number of times, driving the 
baseline and putting up shots among 
two or three defenders and connect­
ing on 7 of 13. 
Both teams employed a full court press for the better part of the con­test, a strategy which payed off for the Irish near the end as their strength on the bench began t.aldng its toll on the Wolverines. 
Diondra Toney and Lisa Kuhns saw plenty of action at the guard position while Lavetta Willis came in and grabbed six rebounds on the front line. 
"We have more depth than they 
do," said DiStanislao, "and we 
wanted to take full advantage ofthat. 
We were productive on the press 
when it counted." 
"That was our main strategy -to 
press," Ebben added. "That's why 
we won. We have a very strong 
bench." 
While the Irish outshot Michigan 49 percent to 41 percent and scored 20 free throws to the Wolverines' 11, they were outrebounded 38-35 by a much smaller team. Coach DiS­tanislao sees rebounding as the key to future success for her team, which upped its record to 2-1 with the victory. 
"Where we need work is definitely on the boards," she ex­plained. "We have to take advantage ofour height to be successful. That's what we'll be working on." 
The next test for the Irish will be the Tennessee Lady Volunteers, who visit the ACC at 4:00p.m. Monday. 

The Observer Friday, December 6, 1985 -page 14 

The longest running show in ten­nis history is taking its act back to the St.5 million Australian Open. 
MELBOURNE, Australia · Defend­ing champion Chris Evert Uoyd Top-seeded Chris Evert Uoyd and scored a disputed 6-l, 7-6 triumph No. 2 seed Martina Navratilova will Thursday over fifth-seeded West battle for the women's title Saturday, German Claudia Kohde-Kilsch to ad­the 67th time the two have met on a vance to the women's singles final of tennis court. the SI.') million Australian Open 
On Friday, Sweden's Mats Wilander, who has won this Grand Slam tournament the last two years, faced giant-killer Slobodan Zivojinovich of Yugoslavia and top· seeded Ivan Lcndl ofCzechoslovakia took on Sweden's Stefan Edberg in the men's semifinals. The men's title match will be held on Sunday. 
tennis tournament. 
Uoyd appeared to lose the second-set tiebreaker when she hit a ball that seemed to go long, but the ball was called good. She went on to take the tiebreaker 8-6 to advance to the final of the event for the fifth time in as many appearances. She is 2-2 in the four previous finals. 
Earlier, Uoyd's husband, English­manjohn Uoyd, was beaten 7-6,6-2, 6-1 In the men's quarterfinals by top­seeded Ivan Lcndl. 
Asked If she felt robbed by the call, Kohde-Kilsch said, "I think so, but you must llve with that In tennis. What could I do?" 
Uoyd, playing with great aggres­sion, had led 6-l, 4-1 before the tall and powerful 21-year-old German got into the groove. 
"I was just starting to play well, and maybe I would have had a 
chance in the third set," Kohde­
Kilsch said. 
Television replays seemed to 
show the ball was clearly long. 
The 26-year-old Lcndl, aiming to win the Australian title for the first time, struggled through the first set against john Uoyd, but then used his power serves to good effect and romped to victory in 1 hour, 44 minutes. 
The unseeded Uoyd, who had beaten seeds Tomas Smid and Joakim Nystrom on his way to the last eight of the grass-court event, found his own serve had deserted him. 
"I had no chance against a player of his caliber If I could only get 50 percent ofmy first serves in," the 31· year-old E'nglishman said. 
Uoyd felt his chance was gone once he lost the first set tiebreaker 7-5. 
"The first set was the big one," he said. "Ifl'd have got that, I'd have had a chance. After the first set, he got his serve back and it seemed he wasser­ving a couple ofaces every game." 
Fifth-seeded Stefan Edberg of Sweden meets unseeded Michie! Schapers of the Netherlands in the other quarterfinal. 
Edberg has been extremely criti­cal of his own form. 
"I am not playing my best and I am struggling," said the 19-year-old Swede, the junior Grand Slam cham­pion in 1983. "It's just not there." 
The lanky Schapers defeated Wimbledon champion Boris Becker in the second round and has nothing tolose.Heisrankedjust 188thinthe world. 


Oklahoma nose guard given Lombardi honor 
Associated Press presented in honor of the late Na­tional Football League coach Vince Lombardi, were Boston College 
HOUSTON · University of Ok­nose guard Mike Ruth, Oklahoma lahoma nose guard Tony Casillas State defensive tackle Leslie O'Neal was named Thursday night as the and Michigan defensive tackle Mike 1985 winner of the Lombardi Hammerstein. Award, which annually goes to the Lombardi, who coached the player deemed the nation's top col­Green Bay Packers and the Was­legiate lineman. hington Redskins, died in September 
Casillas, a 6-foot-3, 280-pound 1970 ofcancer. senior, had 35 tackles, 4 for losses and 2 quarterback sacks in 7 games The Downtown Rotary Club of this year for the Sooners, who play Houston presents the award at a Southern Methodist on Saturday. He benefit dinner, with the proceeds missed two games with an injury. going to the American Cancer 
Other finalists for the trophy, Society for cancer research. 

Pizza -Subs -Beer 
FRIDAY NIGHT : Take off to the Great White North Day with $1 Canadian Imports 
AND $1 Canadian Whiskey 
For Club Rentals... 
call Bryan Dedrick, 

Opens Friday, December 13th 
PQ-.... --.... ::
--------·-­

At A Theatre Near You. 

~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~----------------------------· 
.. 
T0 day______________________F_r_id_a_r_._n_e_c_e_m_b_e_r_6_,_1_9_B_s__P_a_g_e_t_s 
Bloom County 
.. ' 
L·~to 
ACROSS 1 Star in Cygnus 6 Experts 

1 0 Black bird 14 Palm cockatoo 15 Mining sample 16 Sound system 17 Belong 18 Teen problem 19 Lendl of tennis 20 Mean business 22 " ... bird in a 
gilded-" 23 Related 24 Annie­26 Mystery 30 Accustom: var. 32 Gambling town 33 Senora's 
long skirt 35 -forth 39 Means 41 Nag 43 Came up 44 Autocrat 46 Cal. city 47 Jostle 49 Cyrano's love 51 Dwarf tree 54 Hebrew lyre 56 Oodles 57 Disney creation 63 Parched 64 Land div. 65 Tidal flow 66 Incline 67 Ancient Gr. 
city 68 Felix or 
Luther 69 Mallard genus 70 Nolan of 
baseball 71 Hen 
DOWN 1 Crazy 2 Silkworm 3 Countrywide: 
abbr. 4 TV's Estrada 5 Smallfowl 6 Mites 7 Londonese 8 Coastblrd 9 "1'11-ln 
my dreams" 

THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD PRESENTS: 
GREMLINS 
Friday & Saturday, Dec. 6th & 7th 
Times: $1.50 7:00 9:15 11:30 
Hall of 
Engineering 


'{le.JtfiL ;.. •'f!llf?611fNIN&:. 
q q 
0 
0 

©1985 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 12/6/85 
All Righls Reserved Th d , S } .
urs ay s o ut10n 


10 Child's disease 11 Yaleto 
Harvard 12 Old enough 13 like Cabernet: 
var. 21 Official pronouncement 25 Galway Bay's 
-Islands 26 Earth goddess 27 --do·well 28 -uncertain 
terms 29 Passesin review In 

away  
31 Okinawa city  1V6/85  
34 Concerning  
36 -vu  48 Bridge player  55 Fiend  
37 Radar display  at times  58 Oleaginous  
38 Dustbowl  50 Trying  59 Art cult  
refugee  experience  60 -duckling  
40 Membrane  51 Iraq port  61 Indian  
42 Flynn of films  52 NY city  62 John or  
45 Wales seaport  53"-Rae"  Deborah  

\ 

Open 7-9 Mon-Frl 8-8 Saturday 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
'1!1{1(1fflt..Y... 
... Mil t..lfe H/15 fiECOMe ffNI/L{..Y... 50... 50 5f'CC/fl{. ... ''ACClPTI/NC£.• 50 tY8/NIIhf~.. 0 LISTF..N.'.•. 71£ 
q_ t.OOIVS /... CIW YO!/ fiMf( me· t.a?N5 l'... 
..-­
Kevin Walsh 
PI.EASE' DON TSA'i ATHING ... OR 1M I..EAVIN&· 
Campus 
FRIDAY, DEC. 6 

•9:30 
A.M. · 4:30 P.M. · Sale, Annual Unicef Card Sale, library Concourse, Sponsored by Ladies of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

•11
:30 A.M. -1:30 P.M. · Out to Lunch, Center for Social Concerns, Proceeds go to Puerto Rican mudslide victims 

•12:
15 P.M. · <iathering, steps of the Ad· ministration Building, sponsored by Anti· Apartheid Network 

•4:00 
P.M. ·Lecture, "Islam and Colonialism: The Doctrine Jihad in Modern History, Dr. Rudolph Peters, University of Amsterdam, Room 124 Hayes·Healy, Sponsored by Mediterranean/Middle East Concentration in Anthropology 

•7:00 
P.M. · 9:00 P.M. · IParty, Adopt·A-Child for Christmas Party, South Dining Hall, Sponsored byJunior Class 

•7:00, 
9:15 and 11:30 P.M. · SAD Film, "Gremlins", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, $1.50 

•8:00 
P.M. · Concert. "Dimensions in Jazz", Sponsored by Notre Dame Jazz Bands 


Dinner Menu..'i 
Notre Dame Baked Ham BeefPot Pie Batter Fried Perch 


Saint Mary's French Dip Fettucine Carbonara Cheese and Mushroom Omelet Oven Baked Fish 
~------------~--­
Invertebrate practical jokes 
SATIJRDAY, DEC. 7 
•4:00 
P.M. · Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Loyola ( Chkago), ACC Arena 

•7:00, 
9:15 and 11:30 p.m. SAD Film~ "Gremlins", Engineering Auditorium, Student Activities Board, Sl.50 

•8:00 
P.M. · 1:00 A.M. ·Band, This End UP, Alumni-Senior Club, Sponsored by Around the Corner Club 

•8:00 
P.M. · Faculty Recital, Alma Douglas, piano, Saint Mary's, little Theater, Sponsored by Saint Mary's Department ofMusic 


SUNDAY, DEC. 8 
•2:00 
P.M. · Christmas Party, library Lounge, Sponsored by International Host Families 

•4:00 
P.M. · Faculty Recital, Laura Klugherz, violin, Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by Notre Dame Department ofMusic 

•4:30 
P.M. · Junior Class Mass, St. Ed's Chapel 

•8:00 
P.M. -Lessons and Carols, Saint Mary's Women's Choir, Saint Mary's Collegiate Choir, Church of Loretto 

•8:00 
P.M. · Concert. Notre Dame Chorale and Notre Dame Brass Ensemble Advent Con· cert, Sacred Heart Church 


Learn the facts about cancer. 
And make not knowing the risks, one less risk. 

-

How you live may save your life. 

.. 
S~orts 
Irish rally over Michigan defense; Dunik might have a stress fracture 
By MARlY STRASEN 
Sports Writer 
It was certainly not easy, but when the final buzzer sounded at the ACC last night, the Notre Dame women's basketball team had escaped with a 76-71 victory over Michigan. 
Not all of the news from the game was good news, however, as fresh­man forward Heidi Bunek might be out of the lineup due to a possible stress fracture suffered in her leg. Irish head coach Mary DiStanislao was not certain as to the seriousness of the injury, saying that Bunek will be examined by a doctor and have x-rays taken sometime today. 
The game was a close one throug­hout, with the lead changing hands 13 times and neither team enjoying mo~e than a six-point cushion. With 1:35 remaining, Trena Keys followed a smooth baseline drive with a one-hander off the backboard to give Notre Dame a 72-71 lead and the eventual victory. 

Coach DiStanislao was satisfied with her team's play, although it w;lS on the sloppy side in the early going. 
"I was pleased with the way we played," she said. "We came through and got the big points in the second halfthat put us on top. 
"We have talent and experience and that helped us out a great deal. Two seniors really came through. Lynn (Ebben) did what she had to do when the team needed scoring and Trena (Keys) took charge when the game was on the line." 
Keys tossed in 21 points in the game, 1 5 of which came in the second halfwhen the team needed a boost. She also provided a defensive punch, blocking four Wolverine shots. 
"In a situation like th(~ second half it was do-or-die," Keys explained. "I'm a senior and the team needs someone to look to when we need points. That's how it slhould be -I should be able to take the game into my hands when it's close." 
Keys was not alone in the Irish ef­fort, however, as Ebben added 16 points to the cause. Many of those points came in situations where the Wolverine defense took special care to keep the ball away from Keys. 
"Most teams collapse on Trena right off the bat," Ebben com­mented. "That's when I find myself a little less shaded than she is. But for the most part, we just try to use the 
see MICHIGAN, page 13 

Despite slow start, Loyola is threat with the ability to pull offthe upset 
By NICK SCHRANTZ 
Sports Writer 
Despite their disappointing start, Irish Coach Digger Phelps knows the Loyola Ramblers will give his team quite a battle when the game begins at 4:00 p.m. tomorrow in the ACC. 
"Loyola scares me because they beat North Carolina State," Phelps stated. "I don't care about the losses. They're capable of beating someone good, so they're capable of coming in here and giving us a ball game on Saturday. 

"Loyola showed what kind of team it has and what kind ofprogram it has with its success last year in the regular season and then in the NCAAs," the Irish coach continued. 
"They can play with anybody. They've got some great talent and we can't afford any kind oflet-down after the Indiana game. You can't have a let-down when you play a team like Loyola." 
The Ramblers have stumbled in 
Golphers name Holtz assistant as head coach 
MINNEAPOUS -john Gutekunst, Minnesota's defensive coordinator for the last two years, was named head football coachofthe Gophers Thursday. 
Gutekunst, 41, succeeds Lou Holtz, who left Minnesota last week to replace Gerry Faust as Notre Dame coach. 
For days, reports circulated that Maryland Coach Bobby Ross was Min­nesota's first choice, since he Is a proven Division I winner while Gutekunst has never held a head coaching job. But Thursday morning, Ross removed his name from Minnesota's consideration when he announced that he would stay at Maryland. 
the this season, as they enter their game with Notre Dame on Saturday with a very disappointing 1-4 record. 
They opened their season with a 94-84 loss to Bradley, and followed that with a upset 95-64 defeat at the hands of highly-ranked Illinois. Loyola rebounded with an exciting 60-58 upset victory over North Carolina State, before being upset again 95-84 by the L"niversity of New Orleans. 
On Wednesday, the Ramblers traveled across town to play Northwestern and came away with another discouraging loss. 
Saturday's game is like a homecoming for Rambler coach Gene Sullivan, since h•= graduated from Notre Dame in 1953 and later served as an assistant coach under former Irish mentorJohnny Dee. 
Sullivan has served as the Ramblers head coach for the last five seasons, and in that time he has posted an overall record of96-52 for 
a .664 winning percentage. 

Sullivan has led his team to two Midwestern Collegiate Conference 
see LOYOLA, page 11 

Friday, December 6, 1985 -page 16 

Senior guard Lynn Ebben (12) and sophomore guard Mary Gavin ( 10) defend in a game last year. The Irish scored a victory against Michigan last night in a close contest at the ACC.Mar~v Strasen bas details at left. 
Women boast speed in the Notre Dame relays 
By KATHLEEN McKERNAN 
Sports Writer 
"It looks to be a very fast team," Notre Dame head coach Tim Welsh said of his women swimmers, who open their regular season today by playing host to the Notre Dame Relays at 4 p.m. in the new Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
The Notre Dame Relays will feature eight teams competing (Butler, Illinois-Chicago, Mankato State, Saint Mary·~. Valparaiso, Wisconsin-Milwaukee, Xavier, and Notre Dame.) 
On Sunday morning at 11, the Irish will compete in their first dual meet of the season against Ball State and Cleveland State. 
With all of the current University record holders returning to this year's team, there's reason to beleive the team "should have a very good season," as Welsh predicted. 
Last year's group had a record of 11-1 in dual meets and captured the North Star Conference title. First­year coach Welsh balks at indulging in serious speculation, however, as to exactly how good a season the Irish will have. 
"I don't know," Welsh says when asked about his team's chances. ''I'm not very familiar with the midwes­tern schools." 
Welsh came to Notre Dame from Johns Hopkins, and replaced the Irish coach of 27 years, Dennis Stark, 
see IRISH, page 10 

-
Holtz not the only one with mixed feelings 
When Lou Holtz accepted the job as Notre Dame foot­ball coach nine days ago, he said he did so with mixed feelings. He expressed his complete satisfaction with the situation he was leaving behind at the University of Min­nesota, but said he found it impossible to turn down Notre Dame because he had long dreamed ofcoaching the Irish. 
Similarly, it was with mixed feelings last week that I watched Holtz being introduced as the 25th Notre Dame football coach. It was not that I questioned Notre Dame's selection of Holtz because he certainly was among the most qualified coaches for the job. No, it was more than that. 
You see, I am from Minnesota. 

Ifyou could imagine just about the worst state ofaffairs a football program could be in -Northwestern probably comes to mind -that was Minnesota two years ago at this time. The season before, even Northwestern had taken Its turn at beating the hapless Gophers. 
The first thing Minnesota officials did after that disas­terous season was form a search committee to find a new coach. The committee offered the job to five different people, and all five turned them down. 
Then, in a whirlwind series ofevents, Holtz became Min­nesota's new coach. First, he resigned or was fired at Arkansas (depending on who you believe). He was talked into coming up to Minnesota to consider the open job, and just happened to arrive during one ofthe state's worst cold spells. 
Shortly after, he accepted Minnesota's offer, even though he stated his great dislike for cold weather. At the press conference announcing his appointment at Min­nesota, Holtz said, ''I'm not a genius. I'm not a miracle worker." 

very much the way it had been at Minnesota. Holtz left little doubt with the players about who was in charge and
Jeff 
layed down the line in a number ofareas. The result of his workings at Minnesota was new-found
Blumb 
success, a success which was expected by everyone ( borh at Minnesota and nationwide) to increase in coming years.
Sports Editor 
Holtz promised Gopher fans that one day in the not-too­distant future, he would take Minnesota to a Big I 0 title and 
If those lines sound f;lmiliar, it's because Holtz said the very same thing last week when he was appointed at Notre Dame. 
But Holtz was a genius and a miracle worker when it came to rebuilding the sad state ofaffairs at Minnesota. He starte'd by rallying the support ofeveryone who lived in the state. That support was necessary, he said, if anyone ex­pected him to do the job. 
The people of Minnesota responded by embracing the 
new coach and his program, which contrasted sharply with 
the apathy that had long surrounded football at Minnesota. 
In return, Holtz brought the people of Minnesota new 
hope. 
Holtz did wonders for the program beyond gathering support. He got Gopher players to believe in themselves for the first time by developjng a strongsense ofdiscipline. Just one way Holtz accomplished this was to give out T­shirts with the word "TEAM" in all capsat the top and "me" in small letters at the bottom. He also made sure from the start that the players knew who was boss when it came to the Minnesota football team. 
In the ,hort time he has been here, Holtz has tried to establish the same sense ofdiscipline with the Irish players. The first team meeting under his command on Monday was the Rose Bowl. 
Judging by what they saw, the people believed him. 
I believed him. 
You got nothing but a positive feeling about football at 
Minnesota after so many years ofterrible misery. The sense of new hope for the future was-unbelievable. 
But then Notre Dame came calling, and we all know the rest ofthe story. Holtz is here now, not at Minnesota. What will happen to the Minnesota program is anybody's guess, but Holtz did leave a good foundation for John Gutekunst, his successor, to build on, something that was not there when Holtz arrived. 
Today, Holtz has more to build on than what he found when he arrived at Minnesota. It doesn't have to be said that most Irish fans are expecting him to revitalize the Notre Dame program the way he did the Minnesota program. 
I was very sad and disappointed to see Lou Holtz leave Minnesota. I certainly hope the Gophers can get along wit­hout him. Maybe they will, and maybe they won't. I don't know. 
But ifthere were going to be one place I'd rather see Lou Holtz, it would be here at Notre Dame. Hopefully, he can perform the same magic. 







