
Gerry Faust -page 9 
-·------··­

Reagan tells Congress 'constructive' results of Gorbachev summit 
WASHINGTON President Reagan, addressing a joint session of Congress upon his return from Geneva, characterized his summit with Mikhail Gorbachc:v as a "constructive: meeting" and said the lc:adc:rs had made: a "measure of progress" on arms control. 
The president said, however, "I can't claim we had a meeting of the minds" generally, and his dc:scrip· tion of the arms unde:rstandings in­cluded only the modest provisions carried In a joint statement Issued from Geneva. 
"While we still have: a long way to go, we're at least heading In the right direction," Reagan said. "I gained a better perspective:; I fed he did too." 
Back home: after the first U.S.· Sovlc:t summit meeting In six years, Reagan declared that he, as wdl as c:vc:ryonc:, was "Impatient for results" In the: drive to Improve: su­perpower relations. But be quickly cautioned that "goodwill and good hopes do not always yield lasting results. Quick fixes don't fix big probkms." 
"We don't want a phony peace: or a frail peace," the president said. "Wc: did not go In pursuit of some kind of illusory detente. We can't be satisfied with cosmetic improve· 
ments that won't stand the test of 
time. We want real peace." 
The speech capped an 18-hour 
working day for Reagan. 
In all, the president summed up 
his trip this way: 
"A new realism spawned the sum· mit; the summit itself was a good start; and now our byword must be: steady as we go." 
Reagan's report to the nation followed a summit that produced agreements to meet again next year in Washington and the year after in Moscow, and accords on issues such as a cultural exchange and establish­ment of new diplomatic facilities. But the two leaders fai.led to break their deadlock on the main business of superpower arms control, and Reagan said that on the issue of so­called "Star Wars," the two leaders had a "very direct" exchange. 
"Mr. Gorbachc:v insisted that we might usc: a strategic defense: system to put offensive weapons Into space and establish nuclear superiority," the president said. "I made It clear that SDI (Strategic Defense In­itiative) had nothing to do with of­fensive weapons." 
Reagan also said he restated his proposal for "open laboratories" for scientists from the Soviet Union and the United States to observe each ot· 
see REAGAN, page 7 

The Obocrver/Jomeo Curoll 
Big wheels keep on turnin' 
Members of the Notre Dame Rowing Club began a 50-hour 
"ergathon" Thursday in front of South Dining Hall. junior joe 
Brunetti tests his stamina against the machine. 
Tests Unlimited op~ns exam files to students 
ByGREGTUEL 
N~S14/1 
When thinking of finals, docs the name Tests Unlimited come to mind? 
According to Mike Millen, ex­ecutive coordinator of the campus­wide test file, !lOOn the two wiU be linked directly. "Tests Unlimited wi.U become synonymous with finals," he said. 
Millen said many groups benefit from the file. Students profit from an active service, and the Immediate results reflect the sincerity of stu­dent government ro ~rve the Notre Dame community, he explained. 
The tests are copies from dor· mitory files, which allows a com­prehensive collection to be compiled without depleting the smaller files, Millen said. He added, hGwever, that the large file is far from complete. 
Freshmen and sophomores receive the greatest benefit because: they take more departmental tests; departmental math and physics ex­ams are currently the bulk ofthe col­lection available for student use. 
Chemistry II 5, for example, is well-represented by several packets of"Emil Quizzes." 
The program will be accessible to everyone on campus. Last Thursday, dorm representatives were chosen. Eacb dorm will have catalogs of the available tests, and will take orders through Thanksgiving. 
Individual tests cost 25 cents, while complete collections of one class cost 50 cents. The money will be usc:d to offset the cost ofcopying. Distribution of the tests will begin the week before finals .. 
In the future, Tests Unlimited will rely on students to keep the file . complete and current. Millen said he 
plans to exchange new tests for free test coupons, and expects advc:nis­ing and student reaction to create a more comprehensive file. 
Tests not supposed to leave the test site, however, will not be ac­cepted, Millen said. Professors' con­tributions are welcome at any time. 
The service will be available throughout the year. Millen said "a continual ordering system to develop, where once every two weeks orders are placed," would be ideal. "' 
see EXAMS, page 4 
SMCpolicy pays tuition or deposits student pay 
By HELENE GOUDEAU 
N.wsS14f! 
Saint Mary's student workers who 
receive paychecks from the College 
will have two options In the way the 
money Is used, according to a policy 
initiated last month. 
Checks either can be deposited 
directly into a First Source Bank ac­
count or used directly toward tui­
tion payments. 
This policy, Instituted by Controller and Business Manager jason Undower and Chief Accoun­tant Leslie Hitchcock, replaces the former policy, which allowed stu­dents to determine where the checks would go by giving them directly to the students. 
"By doing away with paychecks, there is no chance of checks being lost or stolen. Also, direct deposit of the student payroll will provide bet· ter service for the student workers and will improve the efficiency of processing the payroll," Hitchcock said. 
According to Student Body Presi­
dent Anne Marie Kollman, there 
were problems when the policy was 
instituted because: of lack of com­
munication about the change. 
There also was a problem because students did not want to buy SJ 0 Resource cards, which allow stu­dents to get cash from a machine, she said. 
Student government checked Into the situation, however, and was. able to persuade the bank to give the stu­dents free Resource cards. 
The cards allow the students with direct deposit to usc: the cash machines at Haggar College Center, or any other machine in the CIRRUS system.· 
Some students have questioned the College's right to determine where students' checks will go. 
"Even though the funds are deposited at First Source," Hitchcock said, "a student employee can draw funds from her account· 
see PAY, page 4 
Liability a concern of administration at football games 
This is tbe third part of a three­injured, and finally let the judge possibility of probiems created by proached her," said Faccenda. "In "We will go over all ofour rules at article series examining security at decide," he explained. unruly fans," said O'Brien. "All of the process of walldng by her, he the end of this season," he added. Notre Dame bome football games. "A person can sue the University those rules were things we felt were tripped. When he tripped, she feU 1'oday's story focuses on tbe for anything," said Faccenda. "That good for crowd behavior. They were and broke her leg." "We will sit down with our con­purpose of tbe new security doesn't mean they have a right to not a direct result oflawsuits." The woman sued Notre Dame, stituents, who are the parking atten­policies. win. It just means they have a right Yet the University Is hoping to claiming that since the University dants, ushers, Notre Dame Security 
to be heard." avoid another lawsuit like the one owned the grounds and knew of the and the South Bend Police; and we 
Full responsibility for the safety filed by a woman who broke her leg man's condition, they were respon­will review various reports from By FRANK]. MASTRO and entertainment of spectators at sible for his actions. She was every game." Senior .514/1Rrporter Notre Dame home football games 
·awarded approximately S50,000 In 
belongs to the athletic department, damages. From these reports, a policy for 
Although liability Is a major con­according to joe O'Brien, associate Notre Dame 1986 will be formulated. cern of the administration, the Uni­athletic director and business "Nobody found out who the man "As far as mounted patrols go, versity cannot worry about being manager of athletics at the Univer­Security was and what his relationship with they were first used In the night liable for accidents over which it has sity. the University was, ifthere was any," game against Michigan In 1982," no control, according to Phillip Fac­"Our job is to monitor the rules said Faccenda. said O'Brien. cenda, University counsel. and see ifthey're working." he said. The rules and policies In effect Signs on Green Field warn the on University grounds after a foot­this season were formulated after "We're primarily concerned with 
"We would first have: to take into public against alcohol abuse:, and ball game in 1978, according to Fac­meetings last spring. vandalism, and protecting cars from account the facts that underly the kegs have been banned on Green cenda. vandalism," said O'Brien, "And situation, what the general atmo­Field. Mounted patrols also are used "A woman was walking through "It was a group discussion. It having security visible so that aid sphere at the time was, what risk was now. the parking 'lot after the game when resulted"' in possible answers to can come quickly to people who Involved for the person who was "We were always cognizant ofthe a man, apparently intoxicated, ap-problems," said O'Brien. need it." 


The Observer Weekend Edition, November 22-23, 1985-page 2 


In Brief 
Senior class members at Notre Dame have issued an invitation to residents in the northeast neighborhood to attend the fifth annual Block Party. The event is scheduled for Friday after­noon from 3:30 to 6:30 In the north dome of the ACC. Both Univer­sity and community leaders attend the event to socialize the day before the last home football game. Entertainment is provided, as well as food and beverages at reasonable prices. The party is designed to show appreciation to residents1n the campus area for their kindness. -The Observer 
You, too, could be the Musk Man. There 
are two days left to enter the English Leather Musk Man contest. 
English Leather is looking for a college student for its advertising 
campaign. The contest is open to any male Notre Dame student. The 
national winner will receive a $1,000 cash prize toward tuition as 
well as a selection of merchandise prizes. Anyone interested must 
send one photograph, color or black and white, taken within the last 
six months, each no larger than eight by ten inches and no smaller 
than three by five inches to the editor ofThe Observer. Acomplete 
set ofrules is available In The Observer office. -The Observer 
Notre Dame is among 137 educational institutions sharing in funds generated by the Mutual of Omaha Companies' Voluntary Aid to Education Program this year. Under the program, Mutual of Omaha matches up to $500 in donations made by employees and their spouses to educational institutions of their choice. The company matched a record total S50,000 in donations during the past year. -The Observer 

Of Interest 
Architecture students will display their work this weekend during Expo Roma, an exhibit ofwork completed last year in Rome. The event, held in the Architecture Building galleries will open with a musical slideshow/receptlon Friday from 4:30 to 6. In­formation about the Rome-Architecture Program will be available. ­
The Observer 
Shawn Collins, a 1980 Notre Dame alumnus and a Democratic candidate for illinois' 4th District seat in the U.S. House of Representatives, will speak on "Government: Why Students Should Be Involved," on Friday evening at 6:30 in LaFortune's Utde Theatre. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Chamber Orchestra 
will present its fall concert,on Sunday at 4 p.m. The concert, includ­ing works by Mozart and Bach, will be held in the Annenberg Auditorium. Admission is free. -The Observer 
Senior Class Mass will be held on Sunday morning at 10 in the Alumni Hall Chapel. Parents are welcome.-The Observer 
Saint Mary's Music Department w111 hold a 
wind ensemble concert on Sunday at 8 p.m. in the Moreau Utde Theater. Admission Is free. -The Observer 
The Senior Dinner will be Saturday night in the South Dining Hall. Cocktails begin at 4, followed by dinner at 5:30. 
The meal is free with a meal plan, and S6 without. ­


Weather 
Southerners beware of the cool Notre Dame football weather this weekend. A high of45 Friday with a 40 percent chance of morning showers. Mostly cloudy Friday night, low in the 30s. Cloudy Saturday with a 40 percent chance ofrain. High 40 to 45. -AP 
The Observer 



Design Editor................. Maur«n Murphy Design Assistant............... Melissa Warnke Typesetters ................................... Tom Small 
Becky Gunderman News Editor .............................Jane: Kravclk Copy Editor ................... Cindy Rauckhorst Sports Copy Editor .................. Larry Burke Sports Special Layout............ Alex Peltzer 
JelfBiumb 
VIewpoint Copy Editor .......... Miriam Hill 
Viewpoint I.oyout.. .................. Rob Banoo 

The Observer (liSPS ~99 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation J>C'riods. The Observer is published by the studentsofthe University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be: purchased for 130 P"r year ( JlO I"'' semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Aseoc:lated Press. AU reproduction rights are resrrved. 
Accent Copy Editor..................Sam Moore Accent Layout..........................Tom Crowe Accent Special Layout........ Laura Gronek NO Day Editor ....................... Lynne Strand SMC Day Editor................. MaryJean Sully Ad Design ......................Jeanne Grammens Michelle Martin Jesse Pesta Photographer ........................James Carroll Typist ................................ Maura McKeever Mary Kate D'Amore Tess Guarino 


Last home game for seniors marks-end of part of ND life 
NotreDame, ourMother Tender, strong and true. 
Dan

Proudly tn the heavens, Gleams the Gold andBlue. 
McCullough

Glory's mantle cloaks thee, Golden ts thyfame, 
News Editor 

And ourheartsforever, Praise thee, Notre Dame. 

-Notre Dame, Our Mother. 

I never learned the words to this song. I had to look them up in the back ofan old football program to write them here. Like most everyone else I just hum along with the band until the last two lines, the only part of the song that I can ever remember. 
But at Saturday's football game the words to this song have special significance. They mark the last time the seniors get together for the central event ofNotre Dame social life -the home football 
Wise up, l<id!

game. 
The kickoff of Saturday's game is the beginning of the end for the more than 1,500 seniors who soon will be leaving the protective confines of the University to confront the harsh reality of the outside world. 
This is scary stuff. 

It all seems so distant when you're a freshman. It may be trite to say this, but it's true. Try it. Go find a freshman, grab him by the shoulders and scream into his wide-eyed expression, "Hey! Wise up! You've only got about 15 more home football games to experience as a student! And then it's over!" 
You'll get nothing but blank stares, the same blank stares we seniors would have given when we were freshmen. 
But here it is. Friday afternoon the seniors gather together under the glistening white north dome of the ACC for the block party where they eat, ~ and are merry with area residents. Perhaps it is a reflection of how students' values have changed through the years that the block party is radically different from its predecessor, the infamous "death march" -an exercise in drunkenness and debauchery. 
But the concept is the same. Seniors gather together for a kind ofvigil during which the participants are with each other as a partoftheir lives passes by -a milepost, if you will. 
And then the game. 
The game is a melancholy event, regardless of what 
Focus On America's Future 

Comprehensive programs for persons with: 
Bulimia Nervosa 
Anorexia Nervosa 
Compulsive Overeating 






HOPE 
Healthy Options for Problem Eaters 
the team does on the field. While traditionally the stu­dent section reacts wildly to nearly every play, for seniors each first down has special significance, each touchdown is joyful sadness. 
For senior football players, the game is another kind of ending. Before the game, the name of every senior player is called out over the stadium's public address system as he runs out of the tunnel alone. Starters and walk-ons alike are met by the appreciative applause of more than 50,000 Notre Dame football fans. Many of 
their parents are in the stands, or at least watching on 1V. That's the kind ofmo­ment to live for. 
Then as the game moves toward its close, many seniors glance nervously at the clock. As the last seconds tick away, as the two teams run out to shake hands, and as the Irish run
-======: off the 

field and into the locker room, everyone slowly moves toward the ex­its. Everyone, that Is, except the seniors. Most ofthe students in the senior section stick around to listen to the band play 
after the game. For many, this is the first time they haven't left the stadium before the team. 
But they stay. And they listen. And a few of them cry and hug each other. And then it's over. 
Sure, we can all come back next year or the year after that and attend football games. But we'll have to sit on the other side ofthe stadium and only watch as the stu· dents stand up during the entire game, pass people up, and try to start the wave. It will never be the same again. 
There are a lot of things under the golden dome that aren't as good as they should be. Letters to the editor in the newspaper underline the fact that ·there are problems here, like anywhere else. 
But you try to tell me one other place in the world where the raw emotion between people is more evi­dent than at the last home football game for seniors at Notre Dame. 
Just try to name one. 



The Observer Weekend Edition, November 22-23, 1985 ­

Major goal of new NAACP chapter to unify minorities 
By CANDICE BECKER light, providing a cross-cultural ex· 12 students who worked on the or· News Stoff perlence for all students. ganization during the summer. The group will have a political ac­According to West, by the begin· 
The major goal of the newly· tivist slant, according to West. He ning of the school year they had the formed Notre Dame chapter of the said it wants to stay away from the minimum 25 members needed to NAACP Is to unify the minority social level, because the Black Cui· obtain a charter. population on campus, according to tural Arts Council fills this need. The group still Is developing, Carlton West, president of the The Notre Dame branch ofthe Na· West said. Right now, he and an ex· group. tlonal Association for the ecutive committee made up ofVice· 
He said the minority population Is Advancement ofColored People got President A vrille Semo, Treasurer 
regarded as an Invisible community its start last year when Benjamin Dennis Tillman and Secretary 
by the students and administration, Hooks, executive director of the as­Reynauldt Keys, head the Notre 
and this must change. sociation, spoke here. Dame branch. The group is sub· 
"There Is a need for a forum of West said he heard the speech and divided into five other committees 
education on minority Issues was intrigued. He and Gary Cooper, which form its backbone. These are 
beyond that which we get from who also heard the speech, decided the education, membership, 
white-oriented books in dominantly that Notre Dame needed a branch of housing, financial and academic 
white classes at Nmre Dame," said the NAACP of Its own. They met committees. 
West. with the state president of the or­"The purpose of the committees 
West plans to bring local, state, na· ganization to discuss the process. is to touch base with the administra· 
tional and International Issues to The two formed a committee of tion and faculty and inform them 

Prof looks at crumbling memorial 
Spedal to The O~Jeener the structure probably arc the cause sphere can cause cracks in materials 
To help determine why the Viet· of the cracks In the black granite. such as granite. nam Veterans Memorial In Was­Granite rocks, such as those com· "But that is not the case here," hington, D.C. is reponcdly posing the memorial, contain Winkler determined, after studying crumbling, a Notre Dame geology locked-In stresses formed under the granite specimens of the memorial. professor visited the site on Nov. 9. enormous pressure originally Apparently, he said, a steel rod Is im· 
Erhard Winkler and the structural exerted four to five miles below the properly being used to anchor the advisory committee decided the Earth's surface, Winkler said. center section of large panels that reports probably are exaggerated. When they are exposed and are approximately I 0-feet high. The 
After the committee's one-day mined, the stones can crack from stress from the steel rod, combined meeting in Washington, Winkler mishandling, or from dally tem­with the effect of daily temperature said that In spite of small cracks perature differences In the heat and cycles appear to have caused tiny where the centers of the large pressure used to polish their horizontal cracks that arc lined up granite panels arc anchored to a con· surfaces. Any moisture entrapped with the rods. crete retaining wall, the memorial is within the rocks can expand and The cracks are small enough to structurally sound. contract, Winkler added. A pressure eliminate the need for extensive 
Stainless steel rods used to anchor up to 200 times that of the atmo-repair, Winkler said. 
NOTRE DAME/MIAMI SUNSHINE WEEKEND $170 
per couple/kids stay lree 
1­

1\Jrn the Notre Dame-Miamigame into a warm weather weekend your whole family will enjoy. The Miami Airport Hilton and Marina makes Uhappen! 
·nu~ Novmnhtll" 30th Notre Dame-Miami game in skiing, boating a11d tennis are also available for a the Omnfle Howl is the perfect excuse to pack nominal charge. And we've got restaurants from the fanul.v's hags and head for the warm sunny casual to lavish for· your dining pleasum. weather of Miami. And it's a grt1at way to celebrate 
Best of all, you can have our Sunshine Weekend the Thanksgiving holiday weekend, too! 

for just $170 per couple, double occupancy. And Package includes: the kids stay ~'REE. Space is limited, so make 
• 
4 da.vs and 3 nights of blissful. total relaxation msmvations now. Call Hilton Reservations, your with a deluxe lake view mom. ltavel Agent or 305·262·1000. 

•
Complimentruy wine ru1d fruit 'n cheese platll•r u1xm check-in. 

• 
Kids stay ~·Rt:E, mganlless ofage. as long as they sham vour·mom. 


• Free 1;arking. t\tthe Miruni Airport llilton you'lllind all kinds of recreational activities the whole family will enjoy. Frurn glorious lounging under the warm Miami 

A~tij~

sun at poolside to a comple1t1 Nautilus equipped health club a11d !!·station PAR course. Water 5101 Blue Lagoon Drive • Miami 
Adopt-a-Child project undertaken by juniors 
By CHRIS SKORCZ greater than we had expected, SeniorStoffReporter she said. On Wcdncsday night more 
In an eflon to brighten the than 35 sponsors signed up at Christmas season for 80 South Nonh Dining Hall alone. Bend area children, Notre The number of children In· Dame's junior class service com­volvcd as potential adoptccs was mittee Is sponsoring the new fixed at 80 because the service Adopt-a-Child program. committee was restricted In Its 
"The children involved arc 4-finances. ycar-olds from the local "We had only 80 to begin with Headstan program, " said Ann because that Is all we could afford Seeley, a committee member and to bus to and from the party. We one of two juniors who Initially are going to have cookies, a proposed the idea to committee Christmas tree to decorate and heads Mark Bergin and Mary Santa Claus at the party," she said. Sagripanti. 
"We have had people in the The idea first occurred to dining halls signing potential Seeley when she and fellow sponsors up. What each sponsor junior jose Vithayathil became does is to look at the pictures and involved In the Headstart names we have, choose a par· program as part of a marketing ticular child, and then buy them a project. gift for the Christmas party we "My marketing class is helping are going to have on Dec. 6 in the various non-profit organizations South Dining Hall," Seeley said. with their marketing and jose 
Seeley said ali presents will be and I became very fllmillar with in the Sl0 to Sl 5 range. Lists Headstart. It Is a program for have been made of the things the culturally-disadvantaged 4-ycar· children need most. olds from famlllcs which arc 
"Unfortunately, we have only a generally low-income families, small number of names left since usually with two working response has been so great, much parents. 
A b I Dance 
Collective resents
D "Works In Progress" (J 
• 

: BALLOONSALE IYoo. 23 
: 3 hourspriorto kickoff 

LeMans Lobby

• : $ 1 :
• Dining Halls 
•
•

• •••••••••••••• On Campus • Proceed• go to Special Olymplca • 
•

• They willallbe releuedat Kickoffofgame.
• 


that the minority population has a voice. Also the committees will call for changes in academic life as the students see fit," said West. 
The group has not met with the administration. West said the com· mittee is emphasizing an air of professionalism so the administra· tion realizes they must be reckoned with. 
"The administration at this Uni· versity has a tendency to treat the students like children. So we want to wait until we are fully formed (at the end of the semester) when we can meet them on their own ground," said West. 
He said the first project ofthe new group Is an open discussion on Dec. 6, when problems of alienation will be discussed. 
pa:--1 
There will be a speech about the history of the NAACP, and also an open floor for reflections, feelings, or opinions on racism. 
The NAACP currently has 61 members, and is growing fast, said West. The Notre Dame branch plans to hold monthly meetings. 
At these meetings the various committees give reports on their progress and information from other NAACP groups is discussed. The press committee keeps the group up-to-date on national and interna­tional minority issues. 
West said he is optimistic about the future of the group. 
After graduating, he said he plans to remain in the South Bend area where he will attempt to start an alumni network for minority alumni. 

The Observer Weekend Edition, November 22-23, 1985-page 4 
Student dean and activities director to be replaced at SMC in January 
By PEGGY PROSSER 
StaffReporter 
Two positions at Saint Mary's will be filled by different faces next semester as Mary Ann O'Donnell becomes dean of student affairs and ,Mary Ellen Smith becomes director ofstudent activities. Currently director of student ac­
i tivities, O'Donnell will replace
,I 
present Dean of Student Affairs ~ Sister Karol Jackowski, who is leaving for the semester to continue
I 
I her education. O'Donnell will assume her posi­tion after six years of experience with the College. She began as direc­tor of Regina Hall in 1979, then moved to her present position in 1980. As dean of student affairs, O'Donnell will be responsible for student interests as well as college affairs. As a senior officer of the Col­lege, she will supervise its six divi­sions as well as serve on various institutional committees. O'Donnell had planned to leave Saint Mary's to continue workon her doctorate when the opportunity to 

Exams 
continued/rom page 1 
Professors' reactions to the program range from non-committal to enthusiastic. Father Austgen, as­sistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters, said he "couldn't make a blanket statement" for everysubject and class. 
John Derwent, associate professor of mathematics, described the program as "fine," explaining that "the smart student will use the test as a practice guide and anticipate questions of similar length, dif­ficulty, and time, while the dumb student will rely totally upon the. tests." 
Pay 
continued/rom page 1 
and transfer them to another finan­cial institution ifshe wishes to do so. 
"The Bank provides each student 
with sufficient free checks so that 
there will be no cost to a student 
worker who writes only one check 
each month to transfer funds to 
another institution." 
Katy Orie, head student manager at SAGA food service, has received no negative feedback from student workers regarding the policy and sees no problems with it herself. 
Hitchcock said the new policy should be able to accommodate all student workers. 
THEEARLY ~­
BIRD JY" 
PREPARE FOR 

JAN. 25 


GMAT 
CLASSES ~
SDDN

STARTING~
f?m­
~-H ICIIPUIN 
EDUCATIONAL CENTER In Now 'Ibn< Slatt Slonley H Kaplan Educotoonat Center Lid TEST PAEAUI.moN SPECIALISTS SINCE 1!138

~CAU DAYS, EVENINGS & WEEKENDS 1717 E. Soul~l Bend Ave. South Bend. Indiana 46637 
272-4135 

replace Jackowski arose. 
"I had hoped to find a position in student affairs at an eastern college.I'm from the East originally, and I would like to return," said O'Donnell. 
"But, Sister Karol asked me, and I just couldn't pass this up." 
When asked about O'Donnell's qualifications, Jackowski said, "I couldn't think of anyone more qualified for this position. I think that's the reason I chose her." 
Jackowski added, "Our styles of administration are a lot alike. She's the most like me, I guess." 
During her absence, Jackowski said she would like to see continued growth of the Sexuality Education Program. Results of the sexuality survey will soon be released, which she said she hopes will generate a response from students and staff. 
"The biggest obstacle is the real fears students have about talking about these issues. We'd like to see them feel more free to discuss them if they have questions or concerns," said Jackowski. 
"Their attitude seems to be 'We're glad you're doing something but we're still afraid to discuss it.' " 
It was announced recently that a new director of student activities had been chosen. Mary Ellen Smith, currently a director of admissions at Incarnate Word College in San An­tonio, Texas, will begin her duties in January. 
"I was pleased with her very good administrative skills. Everyone was real high on her, so we offered her the position Friday and she called and accepted Monday," said O'Donnell. 
Smith was selected after a series of interviews with student commitees, faculty and administration. Student government representatives evaluated the candidates, and their choice was unanimous. 
"Students are involved in any search that takes place on campus. They're very good at getting a sense of how well the candidates will relate to them," said O'Donnell. 
O'Donnell said she will continue to maintain and push the growth of the various departments of the Col­lege, and is looking forward to working with students, faculty and administration. 


'The ObKrver/Jamn Carroll

Red light, green light 
Notre Dame student Dan BatTett checks out a new pedestrian crosswalk on U.S. 31, wbicb many students will use to travel bet­ween campuses more safely. Five sucb crossing signs bave been installed to improve tbe condtttons at dangerous intersections along tbe road. 
a F 2
•

c I • • •
• 
The Hammes 



Notre Dame Bookstore 
F F F
r 
F • -, 
You Too Can Buy
. 

An IVY AWARD WINNING PIZZA 
from 

Pizza 
Made Here on Campus So You're Sure It's HOT! 12" Pizza ••••••••••••••••••••••• $5.40 14" PIZza ••••••••••••••••••••••• $6.00 

Students: Clip this ad and save 50 ¢ · 
For Free Delivery, 
• 
239-7157 at the Huddle 
ca11239-7518 at the Night Oak 

UNIVERSITY FOODSERVICE 

NOTRE DAMS 


The Observer Weekend Edition, November 22 · 23, 1985-page 5 

Six blacks.killed in South Africa 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa ­Police opened fire Thursday at a crowd of tens of thousands of black protesters outside Pretoria, wit­nesses said. A newspaper reported at 
least  six  people  were  killed  and  
hundreds injured.  
Police  headquarters  confirmed  

two deaths but made no mention of violence at the gathering, estimated by reporters to number more than ~0,000 in Mamelodl, a sprawling black township north of Pretoria, the country's administrative capital. 
It apparently was one of the big­gest confrontations In 15 months of violence against apartheid, the legal system by which five million whites rule 24 million voteless blacks. More than 800 people, primarily blacks, have died in the rioting, two-thirds of them killed by police and the rest by other blacks who suspect them of collaborating with the government, officials say. 
The Mamelodi protesters were demanding lower rents, an end to restrictions on funerals, and the departure of soldiers and extra police from Mamelodi. 
Several hours after the clash, Magistrate P.A.j. Burger banned all funerals In Mamelodl from Friday evening to Sunday evening. He said they could endanger the peace. 
In Cape Town, Winnie Mandela, wife of jailed black leader Nelson Mandela, said the government had approved her husband's request to see his lawyers Friday amid persis­tent rumors he Is about to be released. She said she regarded the speculation seriously because of its "unprecedented intensity." 
President P.W. Botha's office, however, said In a statement, "There Is no truth in the rumors." The presi­dent was quoted earlier In the day as saying, "no decision has been taken" on releasing Mandela. 
Mandela, 67, the former head of the outlawed African National Congress guerrilla movement, is recovering in a hospital from prostate gland surgery Nov. 3. Al­though sentenced to life in prison 21 years ago, he still is widely regarded as the most important black leader in South Africa. 
Mrs. Mandela, whom the govern­ment ordered banished to a small town by Nov. 4, has refused to com­ply, saying she wants to be near her husband while he is in the hospital. She said he has recovered com­pletely and neither of them knows why he is still in the hospital. 



NEWSCHEDULE 
Arrive Arm*­
LI.A. 
Le•ve 
Mkhlena
..,. 
IIIITliE
Mkhlena 
IEIIOUL DAlE
IAIE IEIIIUL 

lUI AlliNIT ARRIVE .__ AIIINIT, ... 
D'NliF O'IAIE IOUTIIfiD IIELTEI
IIELTEI 
IOUTI •••• 

...~ ......
4:11~ 

1:111& ..... ....... 
1:11 .... ..... ....... 
II:HLa 11:41La tuo,.•. 
tr:n , ... 11:41 .... uo,... 
r,n,. .. r,.. ,... .,...... 
1:11 
.... ........ ...... 

1:11 
.... ...., ...... 


1....
. ..... ....... 
.....
l:llo.a 
lUlL& ...... HI,&
...... .......
l!:llf.& ·-· 
ua,.a 6:68 .... I:OIIf.a 4:311 ,... 7:11 .... 1:011 .... UGJ.a uo,. .. 10:16 ,...
...... ....... ....
........ 1:11 .... t.lloa 
INlL& l:llu. ,UIII& 

ALL ARRIVALS AND DEPARTURES ON LOCAL TIME. CALL FOR COMPLETE LIST OF PICKUP POINTS I TillES. 
.~p--..

FOR RESERVATIONS (219) 674..6993 
ALEXIAN BROfHERS 
A Religious Community of Men in the... 
HEALTH CARE MINISI'KY Committed to Christ ... 
Through a life of fraternal love, prayer and service to the sick, poor, dying and unwanted. 
• 
ADMINISTRATION • NURSING • CLERICAL • TECHNICAL 

• 
PASTORAL CARE • X-RAY • LABORATORY • ENGINEERING & MAINTENANCE • MECHANICAL WORK • PUBLIC RELA­TIONS • PHARMACY • COMMUNITY HEALTH, ETC. 


••••••••• WRITE FOR INFORMATION •••••••
•
•

Vocation Director, Alexian Brothers •
•

600 Alexian Way, Elk Grove Village, IL 60007 •
•
• 

Name_________________________________________ • 
Address \ 029 : 
\ •
.. 

City·---------~tate,______zip'--------•
• 

Age Education Tel. No. :
• 

IIA HEALING PRESENCE" :..................................................: 
HOSPITAL A~D HEALTH CENTERS: 
Elk Grove Village, ILL/Elizabeth, N.J./St. louis, Mo./San Jose, Cai./Signal Mt., Tenn./Milwaukee, Wise. Brothers working in the Missions, in Mexico and Philippines. 
All-star football game to benefit Hurley fund 
By TED SPINELLI 
News Staff 
Before the men's interhall foot­
ball final this Sunday in Notre 
Dame Stadium, a match-up will 
take place that some Zahm resi­
dents hope will start a new ath­
letic tradition In the Notre 
Dame-Saint Mary's community 
while benefitting the family of 
Kevin Hurley. 
At 1 p.m. the Notre Dame women's interhall flag football all-stars will take on the Saint Mary's flag football aU-star team for charity. The women's game immediately precedes the match between Flanner and Alumni for the men's interhall gridiron championship. • 
A S1 admission fee to the games will be donated .to the Hurley family to help pay for medical bills. The benefit Is being organized and sponsored by resi­dents ofZahm Hall. 
The all star game is the brainchild of Zahm's athletic commissioner Chris Athalde and Andrew Souder, another Zahm resident. 
"At a hall council meeting it came out that there was an effort to raise money for Kevin Hurley's medical expenses," Athaide said. "The idea came up when my roommate and I were just brainstorming," he said. 
Athaide then took his proposal to the Non-Varsity Athletics Department where it got the ap­proval of NVA. director Thomas Kelly and Athletic Director Gene Corrigan. Kelly then coordinated the event with Saint Mary's Ath­letic Directorjo Ann Nester. 
"We were more than happy to cooperate," Kelly said. "For us It was a very positive thing that stu­dents' could do for other stu­dents," he said. 
Zahm residents will coordinate all aspects of the game -from collecting admission fees to keeping fans off the field. 
Gate 14 at the stadium will open at 12:30 p.m. for the two games. The men's game Is slotted for a 2 p.m. kickoff immediately following the women's all-star match. 
Christopher Ishikawa, a Zahm Hall member, hopes the event will raise upwards of S700 to 11,000 for the Hurleys. He said he expects the games to draw many spectators. 
"Every girl's dorm has people on the team so they are all represented," Athaide said. 
Ishikawa added that the two dorms which are sending squads to the men's final, Flanner and Alumni, will draw an even larger number ofstudent fans. 
Both Ishikawa and Athalde said if the women's all-star game at­tracts a large crowd, the event could become a yearly charitable function. 
"If it Is run well this year and we get good support and if It is controlled well, then In the future we're going to make It a permanent thing," Athaide said. 
:-·:-: 

Authariz•d D•al•r 
Blcycl••· Part•. S•rvlc• Acc••~~arl•• and 
OFFICER 
AND A GENTLEMAN 

Fri &Sat Nov 22 &23 
9:30&11 PM 
Carroll Haii-SMC $1 

Featuring 24 bulb beds with facial UnH. Our large, contoured beds are over 7 feet long and provide a 360° tan. 2314 So. Bend Ave.(next to Martina) can for appointment 277""" Open 7-9 Mon-frl I-ISaturday 



r----------------------------------~--­The Observer 
Notre Dame gets funds for research 
Spedal to The Obeerver 
Notre Dame received 1990,258 in grants during October for the sup· port of research, facilities, service programs and other projects. Research funds totaled 1874,600, in· Cluding: 
• 
1228,910 from the International Business Machines Corp., for research on the use of intelligent work stations by David Cohn, as· sociate professor of electrical en· gineering. 

•1161,959 
from the U.S. Navy for the study of boundary layer charac· teristics on low Reynolds number airfoils by Thomas Mueller, profes· sor of aerospace and mechanical en· gineering and director of engineering research and graduate studies. 


• 1130, 11 7 from the National Science Foundation for research on three-dimensional natural convec· tion in complex enclosures by K.T. Yang, Viola D. Hank professor of en· gineering. 
•1100,000 
from the Retirement Research Foundation for research on aging and prolonging life by Mor· ris Pollard, Coleman director of the Lobund Laboratory. 

• 
184,577 from the National In· stitutes of Health for studies of biologically important furosanyl rings by Anthony Serianni, assistant professor ofchemistry. 

• 
165,700 from the National Aeronautics and Space Adtninistra· tion for research on leading edge vortex strucure by Robert Nelson, associate professor ofaerospace and mechanical engineering, and T. Terry Ng, assistant professor of aerospace and mechanical engineer­ing. 

•
n 0,000 from the International Business Machines Corp., for a feasibility study of the development and management of a quality as· surance program by Charles Crowell, associate professor ofpsyc· hology, and Albert Miller, professor of metallurgical engineering and materials science. 

•11
0,000 from the International Business Machines Corp., also to Miller and Crowell for a study of in· teractive videodisk training. in chetnical safety. 

•19,000 
from the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources for the histological preparation of chinook gonad samples by Frederick Goetz, associate professor of biological sciences. 

• 
17,700 from the international Research Exchanges Board for sup­port of a visiting Soviet scholar con· ducting research with the on-campus radiation laboratory. 

• 
15,650 from the Yoder Depart· ment Store Inc., of Shipshewana, Ind., for a study of the contribution of church agricultural programs to the rural develpoment of Zaire by Mutombo Mpanya, visiting fellow of the Kellogg Institute for Interna· tional Studies. 


Other projects received 197,003, including 172,003 from the National Endowment for the Humanities for a summer seminar on the frontier in America, directed by Walter Nugent, Andrew V. Takces professor of history, and 125,000 from the Ully Endowment Inc. for and academic advising program in the Collese of Arts and Letters. 
Funds for facilities consisted of a 110,000 grant from Cray Research Inc. for computer applications in the Department of Economics. Service programs ofthe Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry received 18,655 from private benefactors. 
Weekend Edition, November 22-23, 1985-page 6 
with 
e 



CLqRKTElE

COMMUNICATIONS, INC. 
7~% LESS  7~% LESS  7~% LESS  
THAN AT&T'$  THAN AT&T's  THAN AT&T'5  
DAYTIME RATES  EVENING RATES  NIGHTTIME RATES  

LESS COST -Clark Telecommunication rates are 71/2 °/o below A f& T rates all the time. 71/2 o;a below daytime, evening and nighttime rates. 
LESS HASSLE -Because Clark itemizes your billing for each individual, there is no. more figuring out your roommate's calls. 
LESS NOISE -Clark long distance is clear, quality communications. No more strange interference, funny noises, dead air, or low v.olume 
) . 
with Clark. 

LESS RUNAROUND-Because Clark was chosen by the Administration of the University of Notre Dame to handle long distance service for students, we have an on-campus seniice representative to answer questions and respond to problems right away. 
, 

your voice counts . . . 
Call today to start saving on all your long distance services, or see our ON-CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVE in room G91 in the Memorial Library. 283-4150 
CLqRKTELE

'COMMUNICATIONS, INC. 
211 West Washington Suite 1700 South Bend, IN 46601 

The Observer Weekend Edition, November 22-23, 1985-page 7 
Reagan,(;orbachevleavesu~nnrlt without agree~nent on ar~ns control 

BRUSSELS -President Reagan and Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev went into and emerged from their Geneva summit without achieving any measurable progress toward en­ding. or even slowing. the nuclear arms race. 
But while they remain at logger­heads over U.S. determination to search for a futuristic system to defend against nuclear attack, both men demonstrated that they found talking useful. 
That alone offers some en­
couragement to an anxious world. 
But even before the day was out, the cold rhetoric of the dispute was pouring forth again. 
The two leaders ended the session friendly and smiling. but neither had budged from his position on the Star Wars defense proposal. 
"There was no give on that at all" from Reagan's side, said Secretary of State George Shultz. As for the Soviets' outspoken opposition to the program, he told reporters, "I would say their position did not change." 
That was a comfort to the hardline conservatives among Reagan's en­tourage. They were unenthusiastic about his going to the summit in the first place and fearful despite Reagan's repeated insistence he would not bargain away his dream of a strategic shield. 

"The president did weU," said defense undersecretary Fred lld, one ofthose sent to Geneva to represent the wary in the administration best personified by his boss, Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger. 
In Washington, Weinberger-aut­hor of a leaked letter urging the president not to give ground on arms control issues -issued a state­ment saying it was significant that Star Wars "will continue unabated." 
And White House adviser Patrick Buchanan, the conservative ideologue who represents the presi­dent's longtime supporters from the political right, flashed a thumbs-up sign as the summit ended. 
The lon~tanding U.S. and Soviet differences were concealed by the news blackout at the summit, but Gorbachev went on the offensive immediately afterward, saying. "AU restraint will be blown to the winds" in nuclear rivalry until the United States puUs back from Star Wars. 
And Reagan, when told Gorbac­hev had predicted the president eventually would change his mind about Star Wars, fired back, "By that time he will have changed his mind." 
Progress toward some agreement on the Issue really was not expected, howe~er, and Ifthe two leaders con­tinue to talk to each other, the future summits on which they did agree may produce more positive results. 
Some officials were optimistic that human rights Issues, which they said Reagan raised privately with Gorbachev, would yield long-range benefits, although neither man said so publicly. 
If In coming weeks the Soviets permit more Jews to emigrate or al­low some liberalization of their treatment of dissidents, the Reagan administration may conclude that Its efforts, while quiet, produced some results. 
One senior American official, briefing reporters on condition he not be Identified, predicted human rights concerns would be treated with "greater seriousness and prospect of success" as a result of the summit. 


• 
RESTAURANT & LOUNGE 
1033 lAKE STREET NILES, MICHIGAN 616/683-7474 
a Notre Dame, Saint Mary's Tradition for over30 years. 

JVSTASKANYONE! 
-.............,.;;;;;;;~~&~--&~&liiiiiiiiiillllliiii_____._...,_......_._.....___._;;;;;;;~ 

Here ForThe Game ... TheWeekend ... The Day? RunningShortofCash? 
Ifyou have aCIRRUS-linked bankcard, you don'thave aproblem! 1stSource Bank 
says, ··welcome,'' and invitesyou to anyofour 17 convenientlylocated Resource 
Centers, whereyou can getthe cashyou need! Three are located within a mile and a 
halfofthe Notre Dame Crunpus: 
1. 
Roseland-52990 U.S. 31 N. at Cleveland 

2. 
St. Mary's College-Haggar College Center 

3. 
Maple Lane-2230 So. Bend Ave. atIronwood 


Resource and CIRRUS ...

rra longonconveniencewheo,you're shorton cash! ~.source CIRRUS 


-.aank 
_,.O.IC. 
Reagan 
continuedfrom page 1 
her's research on strategic defense systems. 
Arms control aside, Reagan said other topics were discussed, includ­ing "threats to peace" in Afghanis­tan, Nicaragua, Ethiopia, Angola and Cambodia, where Soviet-backed governments are in power. "I tried to be very clear about where our sympathies lie; I believe I succeeded," he said. 
Reagan also said the two men dis­cussed human rights, although he made no claim on progress towards winning the release of Soviet dissi­dents. 
In his 20-minute speech, the president also listed several agree­ments to emerge from the talks: 
First, a new agreement fur cultural exchanges between the United States and the Soviet Union, involv­ing artists, students, teachers and ot­hers. 
Second, a decision to establish a new Soviet consulate In New York and a new American facility in Kiev. This will give the United States a per­manent presence In the Ukraine for the first time In decades, Reagan said. 
And third, an accord with Japan on a new Pacific air safety agree­ment. "What happened before must never be allowed to happen again," Reagan said In reference to a Korean Air Unes jet shot down by the Soviets In 1983. 
He said he looks forward to wel­coming Gorbachev to the United States in 1986, and said he has ac­cepted an invitation to Moscow for the following year. 
• 


Athletic Supporters To the biggest Athletic Supporter of them all ... 
•

Happy 20tla Blrtladav. 
• IC.P.II : 


r-----------------------------~-------------------------------------------­
The Obserwr Weekend Edition, November 22-23, 1985-page 8 

EDUCATIONAL CENTER 
1335 West Harrison Street In -'lb<l< Slate Slal1ley H Ko!liOn Edocol""" Cente1 Llll 
Chicago, Illinois 60607 TEST --..moH SI'£CIAI.ISTS SINCE 1938 
1312) 243-7400 CALL DAYS. EVENINGS & WEEKENDS 1717 E. Soul'l Bend Ave. South Bend. Indiana 46637 
272-4135 
BUYERS MARKET PLACE 5901 N. Grape Road Mishawaka, IN 

TOTAL DISCOUNT FOODS 
OPEN 24 HOURS DAYS AWEEK===il 
SPRING BREAK! 
European Toun 
GERMANY-10 days 
VIsit Nareaba..., Botla_b..,., Maalch, Sallzbaq, Lacenae, Zadeh lncludes:Air -Hotel Accomodations -Breakfast & Dinner Daily. Fully Escorted. 
Departure Dates March 21 
$999.00 

March 28 per person Apri14 DBL. Occupancy 
SPAIN -8 days 
Visit SEVILLA, TANGIERS, GRANADA, TOLEDO 
Includes: Air -Hotel -Daily Breakfast -Sightseeing-
Departures 

$999.00 

March 23 March 30 per person April 6 DBL Ocupancy 
FRANCE -10 days 
Vlalt Part., Beau.., Nonaaady, Chateau Cot~aay, St. Malo, Orleaa• lncludes:Air -Hotel Accomodations 
-Breakfast & Dinner Daily. Fully Escorted. 
Departure Dates 

$1039.00 

March 21 March 28 per person Aprtl4 DBL. Occupancy 
~any otherSpring Break vacation• avaUable CALL TODAY! 





dgerton's 
travel service, inc. 
2265 Mala s--S.,.atil ..... 
13oi-5Hto 
--551:-2616(1...._) 
--M3-oi6M(IIIo-) 
, 
Lyons resident Mimi Beretz signs up Kevin Murphy, left, and Matt Dingens for the "Cream a 
Archbishop optimistic on hostages 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -Terry Waite, the archbishop of Canterbury's en­voy who is trying to free American hostages in Lebanon, was pinned down by gunfire between battling Moslem militias Thursday. 
But in amessage for the hostages' 
families, he said he still is optimistic 
about the kidnapped Americans' 
chances for freedom. He urged their 
relatives to be brave. 
"Have courage. Keep calm. We're 
making progress," Waite said in an 
interview in The Associated Press 
office as fighting raged in the streets 
below. 
But, he cautioned, "We've a long 
way to go yet." 
Police and hospital officials Said at least five people were killed and 32 wounded in the fighting between the Shiite Moslem Amal militia and the Islamic Druse sect's Progressive Socialist Party. 
The street battles forced Waite to delay a news conference and his departure by plane to Larnaca, Cyprus. From there, he planned to fly on to New York for meetings with 
U.S. officials and church leaders on the hostage crisis. 
Waite said he would conduct the news conference after the fighting died down. 
Waite met the Americans' kidnap­pers last week, flew to London to talk to U.S. officials and then returned to Beirut on Tuesday for more contacts with the Shiite fun­damentalists holding the hostages. 
Don't 
Miffed 
I" 11 
ESTS 





Look. 
Finals are just arc·und thf.' cornf.'r. De· vou.
. ; 
'"""'ant tx~ get stucl<~ lookir1g through your d()rm·s test file (does it have one?) at 3 in tl1e tnorning for last year's tests? Come talk:. to us. See your hall rep tor details about the best tiling t:) ha.ppen to finals since exemptions. 
608 Liberty Dr. Mishawaka 
RENTAL OF: 
cond9 cotton Popcorn Machines 

d Electric) Grills(GOS on SnoCone 
Hotfl099ersNacho Cheese 
Helium Rental and Sale ofBalloons in collegiate and other colors 
Hour•: 9ana-5pnaMoa-Frl CALl.: 259-4807 9 ana-J2 Pill Saturday VISA and Mastercard 


------~------------------­
View~_o__l_._n__t__________w_e_e_k_e_n_d_E_d_i_ti_o_n.;.,N-o-ve_m_b_e_r_z_z_-_2..;3.;.'.1.;.9_B_s_.;P.a~g;..e_9 
Focus on last games, not on Faust's future 
Saturoay's football game against LSU will be the last home game for seniors, 
both on the field and in the stands. It also could be the last home game for head 
coach Gerry Faust. 
Faust's five-year contract comes up for renewal at the end of this season. It 
may or may not be renewed. That decision will be made by Notre Dame ad­
ministrators and Faust. 
lbe past several weeks, indeed the past several seasons, have been full ofwild 
rumors concerning Faust's future at Notre Dame. Sports fans throughout the 
country are keeping a close watch on the Notre Dame coaching situation. 
Of course fans have a right to make their opinions known. The present rumors, though, threaten to overshadow the sport itself For the most part, they 'are emotional reactions to frustration. 
Not only are the speculations becoming more important than the game, they 
have taken on a personal and vindictive nature. Such premature and sometimes 
vicious speculations hurt Faust as a coach and the Notre Dame football program, 
and they often lead to unfair personal attacks on Faust and the players. 
Equal attention should be focused on the team's accomplishments. For ex­
ample, Allen Pinkett is a candidate for the Heisman Trophy, and almost assuredly 
he will be an All-American. Yet little has been said or written about him this year. 
Five years ago the administration made a decision to hire Faust for the posi­tion ofhead football coach. The University gave him a five-year contract, as is the policy for all new coaches at Notre Dame. The University has maintained that this policy allows a new coach enough time to either establish and implement a successful program or fail at that task. Officials in the administration have not wavered from this five-year timetable. 
Constant criticism of Faust and his teams have been the hallmark of the past five years. Such criticism comes with the territory, especially if high expecta­tions have not been fulfilled. The criticism is multiplied because of Notre Dame's tradition offootball excellence. Discussion ofFaust's future has become an obsession. 
The five-year contract is almost expired; only two games remain in the season. The administration has stood by its original decision. And Faust has maintained his optimism, despite the criticism. What good possibly can come from a rush by alumni, the media, fans and students to force the hands of Faust and the ad­ministration? 
After these two games are played, and the five years are up, a decision should be made based on what Faust has achieved and failed to achieve during his five years, not on the emotional shouts offrustrated fans. 
Many seniors will play their last game in Notre Dame Stadium this week. The Irish will face the 17th-ranked team in the nation. The game should be the focus, not an administrative decision which ought to be made after the season. 
-The Observer 


Doonesbury 


OOPS, ON£3 GOT THR{)()GH. 'BY/3.
A WAR. AND IF N080/7'1 COUW 
WIN A ut4R, 7HI3R£'5 NO REASON 7D 5TART ONe. MY !1lW'I's5MAJ<T. 





Off-campus interviews offer different chance 
and accomplishments. From the recruiter's point of view this information is, at best, sketchy and should not be a primary influence on any decision. 
The student profile gives little opportunity for students to express their ideas and goals. The career objective section is very small and most students simply use trite and cliche­ridden jargon. Something along the lines of a one-page essay would be a practical and some­what more appropriate method for students to convey their thoughts. 
Certainly the Notre Dame Interviews are important for students. The number of inter­views that the Career and Placement Services can provide is invaluable. The guidance on career choices is most helpful and sincere. Nevertheless, the benefits ofan off-campus In­terview cannot be overlooked. 
During fall break, I had the opportunity to interview with a large bank in my hometown. I had an appointment with Mr. Fuller, the man in charge of personnel, and so headed downtown, not too sure ofwhat to expect. 
When I entered the offices of the bank building, I noticed how the suit that seemed ostentatious when I was on campus, now was undeniably appropriate in this business set­ting. I had left the collegiate atmosphere ofthe past and entered the atmosphere ofthe future. 
I enjoyed the opportunity to deal with an executive of a firm, not a professional recuiter, as is often the case at Notre Dame. 
Fuller had received my resume the week before our meeting, but our conversation cen· tered on the bank and its position in the finan­cial industry. We had the time for extended discussion which allowed me to display my knowledge on various topics. We were two businessmen talking with one another, not an examiner and his subject. 
In general, the hiring process, especially the first interview, has many shortcomings. Avoiding superficial questions and simplistic responses can be dj.flicult ifthe recruiter is not genuinely interested in unearthing the basic talents and motivations ofthe individual. 
Certainly, collegiate success is an Indica­tion that the applicant would be a good employee, but just as certainly it should not be the only measure. Too often a second inter· view must be the result of a nearly arbitrary decision by the recruiter. 
With only a half hour to work with and 12 interviews in a day, the recruiters at Notre Dame cannot be harshly criticized for their as­sembly line work. They are faced with the traditional problem ofquantity versus quality. 
As a result, students should make an effort to get interviews aside from those arranged by the Career and Placement Services. The off­campus interview, If nothing else, will be a new experience in the job search process. In addition, the interviewer will not have seen ten Notre Dame students in the same day, so the Notre Dame background will be unique, not typical. 
You stagger out of Room 101, dazed but alive. A smile manages to cross your face be­cause It has asked to examine you again in three weeks. 
"It must have liked my tie," you say to your­self proudly. Leaving the building you vow to ¥et a new blue suit first thing tomorrow mor­ning. 
Brian McCarthy Is a senior economics major at Notre Dame and a regular VIew­point columnist. 
Quote of the day 
"Give me a place to stand and I will move the world." 
Archimedes 
( c.287-212 B.C.) 

You sit, feigning composure, while your eyes anxiously .dart around the room. The air is filled with words between others identical to yourself, and representatives of the Es­tablishment, recognized by their plastic iden­tification cards and lack ofperspiration. 
Brian McCarthy 
the reason's edge 
"Why did I ever volunteer to do this in the first place?" you ask yourself. It seemed like such a good idea three weeks ago when you were confident ofyour records. 
Suddenly a scream is heard from behind a steel door. "No! No! Please! Another chance, one more chance! I can change, I can do better!" 
The shouting is silenced. The steel door flies open and a beaten carcass is heaved out. You recoil in fear while others sadly shake their heads. 
From behind you hear your name called. 
The room is suddenly silent. Everyone stares 
at you with pity. You stop breathing. Your 
eyes bulge while your heart rate exceeds 200. 
Nearly frozen with fear, you slowly stand and 
turn around, face to face with your examiner. 
It is tall, about 13 feet, 6 inches. It has five eyes and two fangs which hang halfway down its body. On one ofthe fangs are the remnants ofa blue Brooks Brothers suit, just like the one you arc: wearing. It grins, exposing several rows of shark-like teeth, and sticks out a cold paw. 
Numbly, you extend your limp hand and are led down a corridor to Room 101. It has four white walls and is barely large enough for you and the beast. 
"Nothing could be worth this," are your last thoughts as the beast shoves you into the room and locks the door. 
OK, job interviews at the Career and Place­
ment Center are not all that bad, but neither is 
it the best context for students' first meetings 
with prospective employers. 
Instead ofa horror movie, the efforts by stu­
dents to present the "right" image to 
recruiters provides an almost comical scene 
as dozens of blue-suited yuppie clones parade 
into the basement ofthe library. 
Individual students cannot be blamed for this situation, because they are only reacting to the structure of the interviews. The half hour time limit, while perhaps unavoidable, magnifies the qualities of appearance and presentation and severely limits the students' opportunities to display their knowledge and ability. 
After asking a question, recruiters often ap· pear to listen to only the first sentence of the response and then show a desire to move on without allowing the students to complete the response. Most students have in depth knowledge on a topic and want to convey this, but the brevity of the interview interferes . 
Another problem with on-campus inter­views is the tendency for the recruiters to focus on college activities instead of the stu­dents' knowledge of the pertinent industry or field. This approach is promoted by the stu­dent profile form used by all Notre Dame stu­dents. 
The profile form is beneficial because it provides a standard format for the recruiter to assess each individual. However, the profile calls for a listing mostly ofprior involvements 
Garry Trudeau 


VieW~_O__l_._n__t__________w_e_e_k_e_n_d_E_d.it.io._n....N..o.v.e.m·b·e·r·2·2·-·2•3•,·t•9-s._s_..P_a.ge_t_o 
P.O. BoxQ 
ND fans showed. class 
during Ole' Miss game 
DearEditor: 
I wish to thank Notre Dame and all its fans for the great northern hospitality, kindness and love shown to us. You would not have believed how excited our Ole Miss people were about coming to Notre Dame. I even had some Notre Dame fans trying to buy my Rebel 
Flag and only God knows it means Ole Miss. 
The thing that made my daywas at halftime, when all the Notre Dame fans were standing and our band was on the field; a lump came in my throat I said to myselfthey are cheeringfor us, that was real class. I am sure you all have · changed Ole Miss fans to Notre Dame sup­porters. 
Good luck to the Fighting Irish. 
jerome & Sue Looney Southaven, Miss. 
There is no reason for the continued standing 
DearEditor: 
Why does the entire Notre Dame student body stand on their seats for the three or four hour home football games? For some, standing is just another "Notre Dame tradition," and for others it is a way of demonstrating team sup­port. Does standing merely for the "tradition" have either the support of, or a purpose for, many students? Most students dislike the idea ofstanding for three or four hours in cramped sections. Halftime is often greeted with sighs of relief as a brief rest before the second half begins. 
What does the football team gain from the crowd's self-inflicted torment? The students at Nebraska sit during their home games, and they seem to be doing alright this year. It is just as easy to yell, cheer, and motivate the team ·sitting as it is standing. The students' mere presence as an obvious motivating force is evidence enough of student loyalty. It seems that if students would take their seats and continue in the usual football spirit, the crowd would naturally rise in a truly vital situation. This natural increase in enthusiasm would better contrast the perpetual cheering, and emphasize crowd support in key situa­tions. 
There is no question of crowd loyalty or whether the students should cheer more or less. There just seems to be no reason why students must continue this tiresome, purposeless act of standing for the entire game. Maybe the student section standing at "attention" for the entire game is just another similarity Notre Dame has with the rest ofthe military academies. With one more home 8ame left, why not support Notre Dame with all the usual vigor, but have a seat. Relax, and 
enjoy the game. 
joe Candela Morrissey Hall 
Investments in Ireland support discrimination 
DearEditor: 
I commend the University of Notre Dame 
for its support of the Sullivan Principles, and 
its opposition to apartheid in South Africa. 
It is better to do something than to do not­
hing. Notre Dame is doing something positive 
with regard to the South African situation. 
May I now suggest that the University sup­
port the MacBride Principles. Said principles 
would be applicable to the University funds 
invested in U.S. companies doing business in 
Northern Ireland. 
The MacBride Principles, named after 
Nobel Peace Prize recipient Sean MacBride, 
are modeled after the Sullivan Principles 
which you advocate as opposition to South 
African apartheid. 
As things stand now, the United States is the 
single largest investor in Northern Ireland 
today. Sad to say, it is the single largest sub­
sidizer of anti-Catholic discrimination in the 
six counties which comprise Northern 
Ireland in Ulster. Surely Notre Dame should 
wish to have no part ofthis injustice. 
The MacBride Principles in no way adv­
ocate disinvestment. they are strictly pressure 
points for U.S. companies to end sectarian dis­
crimination in Northern Ireland. 
For further information please contact the 
Irish National Caucus (413 East Capitol Street, 
S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003-Phone (202) 
544-0568). 
Stop U.S. dollars from subsidizing anti­
Catholic discrimination in Northern Ireland. 
Thank you. 
Timothyj. Scannell Guerneville, Caltf 
South Africa not alone in its racial suppression 
DearEditor: 
The emotional discussion of apartheid in South Africa taking place here and elsewhere might be conveying the impression that South Africa is the onlycountryin the world that still has an official system ofracial discrimination. This is incorrect and is an erroneous impres­sion. 
For the sake of accuracy, it should be pointed out that a large number of countries still have legal racial discrimination. The In­stitute for the study of Plural Societies in the Netherlands and the Minority Rights Commis­sion report that more than 60 countries have legal racial discrimination. Most African countries discriminate against sonieone . . . whites, or Jews, or Asians, or non-Moslem religious groups or tribes out offavor with the government. 
From the time they gained independence, most black African states, except Kenya and the Ivory Coast, have followed a government policy of anti-white discrimination. Liberia, for example, constitutionally limits citizen­ship to "Negroes and persons of Negro des­cent," and stipulates that "only citizens may vote." 
Vincent P. PeSantis Professor emeritus ofhistory 
Ousting Faust equals destroying good morals 
Dear Editor: 
I read, with great interest, David Anderson's article in The New York Times ofNov. 17, and it triggered great emotions within me. 
Like every Notre Dame fan I suffered through the game with Penn State but, unlike most "fans," I do not blame the outcome ofthe game on Gerry Faust. 
There are two factors which never seem to come into public attention when you talk about college football today, and especially football at Notre Dame. 
It is time now for persons in authority to educate the American public and to enforce procedures to strengthen our game. Notre Dame plays by the rules and also competes against some schools which abide by a dif­ferent code ofethics. We all know ofschools that have been placed on probation time and time again, but continue to operate in a man­ner which, although it permits those schools to put strong teams on the field, continues to perpetuate a decay in college athletics. 
Faust is a man in the truest sense of the 
word. If I had a son capable of playing major 
collegefootball, I would begfor Faust to be his 
coach. We might lose some games but I know 
that any young man who has played for Faust 
will be the better for it. 
This might be unfair, but I feel that many "Notre Dame fans" who scorn Faust and the University after a lost game really are trying to soothe their own fractured egos because they want to be associated with a team that wins every game, whatever the price. The old we­won-but-they-lost mentality docs not come from a fan, it comes from an inferiority com­plex. 
All sports fans are enamored with statistics ­let's give them some real ones. How about posting SAT scores with height and weight lis­tings? Wouldn't that be an interesting assign­ment for some eager newspaper reporter? 
It is also time to stop lip service and get down to the real problem ofcleaning up col­lege athletics. Coaches who knowingly allow illegal recruiting practices to occur must be fired. Alumni and others who give money to athletes must be prosecuted. Schools should be allowed athletic scholarshipsin proportion to the athletes who actually graduate. An ath­lete who drops out means a scholarship lost. We can still help the disadvantaged, perhaps by allowing them to play, but also by insiting that their grades stay at a certain level or even improve. 

It is very difficult for me.to understand how a man like Faust can be so castigated when others, who show absolutely no understand­ing ofthe real meaning ofcollege football, are worshipped. 
I do not see any reason why Notre Dame cannot compete against any school in the country, but let us be fair and allow them to compete with the same rules. 
We worship a false God when we idolize coaches who cheat and football players that do not attend classes. 
How many times have we seen Coach Faust throw a punch at an opposing player, or order one of his own players back into the game with a head injury? Has he ever thrown a chair at an official? And Jesus never threw a rock at Judas either. 
As great as Knute Rockne, Frank Leahy and Ara Parseghian were, Faust is the greatest foot· ball coach that Notre Dame ever had; to throw him out is giving in to the morals of the wild dog pack. 
joseph M. Schmitt Sayreville, N J. 
Pro-lifers not making permanent underclass 
LJearEditor: 

I would like to address in this letter several issues which Mark Drajem's column "Pro­lifers are creating a permanent underclass," raises. 
First, when has any society anywhere or at anytime been without an underclass, whether economic, political, or social? Its existence is deplorable and should be eliminated, but it 
' should not be blamed on pro-lifers. Nor should efforts be made to eliminate this un­derclass by simply shifting it from the born to the unborn. Second, the right to consume alcohol is a right given or not given by the society in which one lives, and is thus a civil right at best. The right to life is a natural right, inherent in what humans are. This is independent of any society and is recognized as such by both the Declaration of Independence and the Con­stitution. Third, the fact that a law is or will be broken, and usually in an unseemly place, does not entail the conclusion that the law should be abolished or never enacted, for elC­ample, laws prohibiting rape or the use ofcer­taindrugs. Fourth, not all pro-lifers are conservatives, let alone supporters of Ronald Reagan. It is in the truly liberal tradition to be the most in­clusive when guaranteeing and protecting the rights of individuals. It is a maxim of truly liberal thought that no individual will have her or his basic human rights denied for the political, social, or economic expediency of another. Whether conservatives recognize it or not, the pro-life position is an inherently liberal position. 
We liberal pro-lifers find itastounding that a nation that was founded on the principle that, when the state guarantees and protects rights, absolutely no person or class is to be given a privileged position, and that has spent two hundred years trying to put this ideal into practice, should now single out those who are born as privileged individuals. In effect, the discontinuity of an umbilical cord becomes the criterion ofprivilege in the United States. If Drajem is looking for a permanent under· class, he might find it in this inequity. 
We also find abhorent the subtle psyc­hological and social pressure beingputon the poor to commit self-genocide. It seems clear that if the unborn child of a poor woman is better off dead, then the poor man or woman who has had the misfortune of being born is also better off dead. How tragically more successful would Hitler have been had he managed to convince the Jews that they should kill themselves? 
Finally, those pro-lifers who are Christians like myself, support and wish to protect the rights of the unborn for the same reasons we support and wish to protect the rights of the racial minorities, women, the poor, and all ot­hers. Christ became man, died, and rose from the dead on behalf of the unborn child as much as for the born, and they bear the image and mark ofChrist as much and as nobly as any one ofus. 
Ifwe are sometimes more ardent in oursup­port ofthe unborn, it is not because we turn a blind eye to the plight of others, but simply 
because  the  unborn  cannot  defend  them­ 
selves.  
john P. O'Callaghan  

Notre Dame graduate student 

ND apartheid support shameful to an alumnus 
Dear Editor: 
As an alumnus I am ashamed that my school has chosen to continue supporting the apar· theid regime of South Africa. I find such sup­port not only sad, but immoral. 
While "constructive engagement" may appear to be a valid attempt to aid the im­provement of lifestyles for all South Africans, support for the economy is support for the apartheid regime. And that regime is dis­criminatory, oppressive and, again, immoral. Until the South African government vows to end the policy of apartheid, there can be no reason to support that government, nor its economic manifestations. 
I have sent a copy of the Sun City record, along with a copy of this letter, to University President Father Theodore Hesburgh, so the that he might hear the many voices which have been and will continue to be raised in anger. There can be no other response to a policy that is so very wrong. 
For several years Hcsburgh has been a vocal proponent of nuclear disarmament, an ad­mirable, if somewhat idealistic, postion. However, compared to the injustice of apar­theid, nuclear proliferation is at best nebulous. Apartheid is real suffering, everyday. How can any true Christianstand by in ignorance? 
I hope tht one day I again can be proud of my alma mater, rather than ashamed. But, un­til that time, I will refuse to allow my money to be washed in the blood of my brothers, and I stand with those students on campus today whose cry cannot be ignored: divest now. 
Patrick L. DePace Notre Dame alumnus 


• 
the region. The museum installed  
permanent interpretive exhibits in  
1981 with the assistance ofa grant  Society, located at I 12 South  
from the National Endowment for  Lafayette Street, was incorporated  
the Humanities. A schedule oftem­ in 1896 as a non-profit organization  
porary displays supplements Dis­ for the collection and preservation  
covery Hall's existing permanent  of objects, documents and books of  
exhibits. The museum also offers  historic value, and for the dissemi­ 
educational programs, special tour  nation ofhistorical information lO  
opponunities and research  the community. The Society's  
facilities.  headquarters and museum are  
Discovery HaU also operates the  housed in the second county cour­ 
Studebaker Museum, located at 520  thouse, which is listed on the Na­ 
South Lafayette Street. The  tional Register of Historic Places. It  
Studebaker Corporation gave its  welcomes more than 40,000  
Historic Vehicle Collection to  visitors and students to tour the  
South Bend in 1966. The collection  museum, use the research facilities,  
began as a company museum In  or attend the many special events  
1890 and includes wagons, car­ and programs. In addition, the  
riages and automobiles which trace  Museum Educational Outreach  
the history oftransportation and  Program provides many learning  
the Studebaker Corporation. The Northern Indiana Historical  see HISTORY, page 2  An a,cient Studebaker engine stands on display beside an early larger than tbe engines oftoday.  


Museums display area's diverse history 
ELLEN MASTAKO 
featura writer 

A 
s South Bend and the surround­ing environs have been settled (as part ofthe United States) since the early 1800s, the area's heritage boasts a wealth of fascinating facts and lifestyles. Much ofthis heritage can be found right in downtown South Bend, where four excellent museums tell of the diverse history of the city. 
The Century Center, an inspiring modern complex offive buildings under a common glass roof, houses two of these museums, the Art Center and Discovery Hall. The Art Center has a permanent collection in addition to current displays. In addition to larger shows, there are also monthly exhibitions featuring work by local or regional artists. They are currently featuring an exhibit entitled, "Accumulations: Harold Zisla Retrospective." Zisla is a well-known and well-respected local artist whose works include oils, pastels, and pencil drawings. 
Discovery HaU tells the story of local industrial history -a story basic to the understsanding ofthe growth and development of the South Bend area. It was one of the 
Tile ~cr/Pc1c Laches

first industrial history museums in 
A classic Studebaker from the early 1900s sits In tbe Studebaker Museum, located at 520 S. Lafayette St. In downtown South Bend. 
........___ 
---~ 

Happenings-page 2 
Suspenseful tale gives actors chance to expand 
Spedal to The Obaerftr 
W 
hen David Hasselhoff and Stepfanie Kramer undertook the roles of Dan Gregory, a troubled 
·detective, and Angie, a woman in distress, in "Bridge Across Time," they wanted the parts to be dif­ferent from the characters they play on their respective hit series, "Knight Rider," and "Hunter." 
"Michael Knight, my"Knight Rider" character, is warm, gregarious, fun-loving and uncom­plicated. He's really very much like me," says Hasselhoff. "Dan Gregory, my character in "Bridge Across Time," is a former big-city detective who once accidentally shot and killed a young kid. That terrible incident ruined his confidence and the guilt he feels makes him quite vulnerable." 
As for Kramer, there's a big dif­ference between the police officer she plays in "Hunter" and the potential victim she plays in the 
History 
continuedfrom jHige 1 
opportunities for the schools and the community. 
The Histol'ical Museum also features the Casaday Repertory Ensemble, a museum theatre group organized to further educate the public about local history. Recently, the ensemble performed a play based on the life of Mother Angela Gillespie, founder ofSaint Mary's College. 
Kathy Stiso, the director ofthe museum, commented, "There is a wealth ofinformation about South Bend in these museums. I en­courage all Saint Mary's and Notre I)ame students to come visit and see what the city in which they spend four years is all about." 
NBC world premiere movie to be 
telecast Friday night. 
"These two women are contem­
porary and both must deal with 
danger, but that's where any 
similarities stop," says Kramer. 
"Dee Dee McCall, my "Hunter" 
character is tough and streetwise. 
She's been everywhere and done 
everything. She lives in a big city 
and nothing surprises her." 
"Because Dee Dee is constantly in dangerous situations, she knows how to handle herself. She can fight and use a gun. She is neither defenseless or helpless." 
"Now Angie, the character I play in "Bridge Across Time," is a widow living in a small town in Arizona. When her husband died, she had to go out and make a living for herself. Danger and life-threatening situa­tions are something she's never had to deal with before." 
So how does a lady being stalked byJack the Ripper react? "She runs her tail oftl" Kramer says. "Since she really doesn't know 
how to defend herself, all she can do is try to get away." 
For the NBC movie, Hasselhoff was very careful to avoid the usual mannerism and personality traits associated with his "Knight Rider" role. 
"It was important to me to main­tain this characterization and not lapse into Michael Knight," he says. "I asked the director to pay close attention to my performance to make sure I never became too warm, personable or well-adjusted. This is my once-a-year opportunity to do something other than "Knight Rider" and I wanted to make the most ofit." 
Restaurant And Cocktail ·LOunge Authentic Szechuan and Hunan Taata 
Lunches startin& at. ______'2.95

Open 7 Days a Week 
Dinners starting at.--_-_--'4.25

2 Locations: 
lar open 7 clays a week 

South Bend, 130 Dixie H~. (Roseland) Mon.-Thurs.: 11:30 •·•··10 p.&Next to Randall s Inn 272-7376 
Frt.-s.t.: 11:30 L&-11 ,... Elkhart, 610 N. Nappanee Sl293-3499 Sun. &Hoildlys 11:30 L•.·lll p.& 
Restaurant The Bestin Aged Steaks 


120 N. Main Street Downtown, Mishawaka 
255-7737 
for reservations Lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00 P.M. Dinner 5:00P.M. Closed Sundays & Holidays 


Weekend Edition-November 22-23, 1985 

Pboco from NBC 

Davtd Hasselboff and StetJ(ante Kramer star tn "BridRe Across Ttme." 
I I 
NOW SERVING ••• 
'\1----t-SUNDAY BRUNCH 10:30 a.m.-2:30 p.m. Adults '7.95 Children s4.95 
Nl TCLUB 
Come to Tivoli's 
South Bend's Party Headquarters 
Open 6 nights a week Drinking and D~ncing g·:oo pm-? 
Located on U.S. 33 1"1. at North Village Mall 
llwatChips 
BREA.K-UP 
75 II SHOTS OF ROOTBEER ALL NIGHT DANCING EVERY NIGHT 
[BGJU~~ U~ UGJ13 lll1llJ[BI3 l!f.OO.l l!lDW aJWlD 13Gl~UU13LU5WU 



The Game 
Irish vs. Louisiana State 
Time Saturday, November 23, 1985 
12:20 p.m. EST 
Series Notre Dame 3, Louisiana State 1 
Last October 27, 1984 
Notre Dame 30, Louisiana State Meeting 22 
Rankings Notre Dame unranked (AP) Louisiana State 17th 
Tickets Game is sold out 
There are approximately 275 seats on tbe first level oftbe box. 
The end of a great career 
Dreams not realized, but Pinkett still shines 
By LARRY BURKE 
Assistant Sports Edt/or 
A 
lien Pinkett, the most prolific running back in Notre 
Dame history, will play his last game in Notre Dame 
Stadium Saturday afternoon. And while the senior tail­
back's final game marks the end ofa career ofoutstand­
ing personal achievements, it also brings to a close four 
years ofdisappointment and frustration. 
Pinkett came to Notre Dame with dreams of winning one national championship after another. But the reality of his four· year career has been quite different: a 2">·18-1 record with two minor bowl appearances. In each ofhis four seasons at Notre Dame, Pinkett has seen his dream ofa national championship slip away. 
"As an underclassman you always have the hope ofget­ting It (the national championship) the following year," he says. "I know I thought the same way. I would always tell myself, 'next year. • But as a senior, the end Js In sight. And when you don't have the following year to look forward to, I think you're able to deal with reality a little more. 
"You just know that all you can do Is make the best out ofwhat's left. I guess we knew after the Purdue game (a 3">-17 loss) that we weren't going to win a national championship. It hurt a lot of us, and it hurt me espe· cially, but you've just got to suck it up and go." 
But while the team's record during Pinkett's tenure has not been as outstanding as he had hoped, he admits that his personal achievements have far exceeded his ex-
The <>bouver/HIIIUICO Hacker 
officials and other "YIPs." 
•
flS 



The Observer 
weekend Edition, November 22-23, t9ss 
The best seat in the house ,1 Various people do their work in press box 
ByPHnWOLF 
Sports Writer 

looms over Notre Dame Stadium, blocking the sun
I t 

for those underneath. It is mysterious; nobody seems to know much about it. 
No,it is not the large, grey cloud that has been dumping rain on fans for what seemslike years. It is the press box, the weather-proof"best seat in the house" where media and various other officials sit to watch the Irish. 
There are approximately 275 seats in the enclosed first level ofthe box, but as many as 500 people have access to the warm dryness inside, according to Associate Sports Information DirectorJohn Heisler. In addition to reporters and photographers, there are coaches, service personnel with specific game functions, statis­ticians, athletic department administrators, University 
pectations. In addition to his school-record 3,951 career yards, he also is the active NCAA leader in career points scored with 314, and he stands fifth in the NCAA in career touchdowns with 52, just seven away from aJI-time leaders Tony Dorsett and Glen Davis. 
He nonetheless tends to downplay his accomplish­ments. 
"The rushing record and all my other personal achieve­ments don't mean that much to me right now," Pinkett says. "I guess that's because I equate success with the number ofwins we have. So personal achievements are things that I really don't look at until after the season. Those are things that really aren't that Important to me. 
"Sure I'd like to go over 100 yards each game, score a few touchdowns, but I like to do them In a way where I'm contributing to a winning effort. And with the rus­hing record, I'm sure the impact ofit isn't even going to hit me until eight or 10 years down the road. But I'm honored to have the record in my name -it is a milestone." 
And, as is typical for him, Pinkett doesn't forget the teammates who helped make.it all possible. 
"I can do nothing but just thank the offensive linemen that have been with me aU four years," says the 5-9, 181-pound senior. "That's guys like Tim Scannell, Mike Perrino and Ron Plantz. These are guys that have literally paved the way for me. I owe those guys a lot of credit." 
see PINKETI, page 2-3 
The Schedule 
Notre Dame (5-4) 
Sept. 14 • (L) Mich., 20"12 Sept. 21-(W)Mich. St., 27-10 Sept. 28-(L) Purdue, 35-17 Oct. 5 • (L) Air Force, 21-15 Oct. 19-(W) Army, 24-10 Oct. 26-(W) USC, 37-3 Nov. 2 • (W) Navy, 41-17 Nov. 9 • (W) Miss., 37-14 Nov. 16-(L) Penn St., 36-6 Nov. 23 ·LOUISIANA ST. Nov. 30 -at Miami 

Louisiana State (6-1-1) 
Sept. 14 • (W) N. Car., 23·13 Sept. 21-(W)Colo. St., 17-3 Oct. 5 • (L) Florida, 20-0 Oct.l2-(W)Vandy, 49-7 Oct. 19 • (W) Kentucky, 10-0 Nov. 2-(W) Miss., 14-0 Nov. 9-(T)Aiabama, 14-14 Nov.16-(W) Miss. St., 17-15 Nov. 23 -at Notre Dame Nov. 30 ·atTulane Dec. 7 ·EAST CAROLINA 
Action begins in the press box early in the week before a home football game. By Thursday, the telephone com­pany is busy connecting phone lines for writers and broadcasters, and television crews begin moving in their equipment. 
Approximately three hours before kickoff, service per­sonnel begin to arrive. They stock the two snack bars, check equipment and make final arrangements to see that the press box will be ready for the arrival of the hundreds of reporters and broadcasters covering the game. 
Close to game time, the box is characterized by what Heisler calls "organized chaos." Writers are relaxing; broadcasters are rushing to fipish their pregame preparations; photographers take their last opportunity to grab a hot dog. 
see BOX, page 2-3 
,
,
, 
1 
~ 
l ~ 
, 
" 

.~-'' 
, (,. , 
The Stadium Notre Dame Stadium ( 59,075) 

TV and Radio 
WNDU-TV(Ch. 16) Jack Nolan andJeffJeffers 
USA Network national telecast Eddie Doucette and Kyle Rote, Jr. 
Television Enterprise Network 70 markets nationwide Harry Kalas andJack Ham 
Notre Dame Mutual Radio Network Tony Roberts and Tom Pagna WNDU-AM 1 500 
Pinkett's outstanding career ts about to come to a close. 
• 

r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r r r r 
r 
r r r 
r r 
r 
t 
r 
r 
r 
r 
Irish Extra -page 2-3 
Seniors provide 'ND moments' 

Chuck Freeby 
Irish Items 
H ello again, everybody! 
This column has never been noted for its compassion, and it probably never will be either. Out ofsome form ofmercy, however, we are going to forego any comments about last week's debacle at Penn State. There is nothing that can be said. 
Instead, we have to concentrate on matters at hand, namely Satur­day's game with I.SU. The Tigers provide another Top Twenty op­ponent for the Irish, and some ace pointing to the irony that Gerry Faust's first home opponent could be his last as well. All of that doesn't matter though to a group of 22 seniors who will play their last game at Notre Dame Stadium. 
All they want is a win. 
One's heart has to go out to this senior class. They came to Notre Dame with big dreams, and those dreams have not been realized. Don't think for a moment, though, that this senior class has failed. It has provided us with many ofwhat Digger Phelps likes to call "Notre Dame moments." 
Reflect upon these moments as you enter Notre Dame Stadium Saturday. They ace provided courtesy of the Notre Dame football class of 1986. 
•Sept. 
18, 1982-Notre Dame 23, Michigan 17. Most ofthe freshmen were standing on the sidelines for this one, but the first night game in the history of Notre Dame Stadium was made all the more memorable because of a victory over the Wolverines. Mike Larkin was a key factor, leading the team with 11 tackles. 

•Sept. 
25, I982-Notre Dame 28, Purdue I4. Aforgettable game with the exception of one event. A little-known reserve running back named Pinkett carried the ball one time for one yard. He would carry the ball a few more times for a few more yards in subsequentgames. 

•Nov. 
6, 1982 -Notre Dame 31, Pitt 16. Dan Marino and Co. are toppled from their No. 1 ranking by the upset-minded Irish. Blair Kiel and Joe Howard linked up on a tlea-tlicker to give the Irish the lead, before Pinkett broke open a close game with a 76-yard run to greatness. 

•Oct. 
22, 1983-Notre Dame 27, USC 6. Notre Dame snaps a five­game losing streak to the hated Trojans as Pinkett puts on one ofthe bestperformances ofhis career, rushing for 122 yards and three TDs. Tony Furjanic and Pat Ballage lead the Irish on defense, making 10 and nine stops, respectively. 

•Dec. 
29, 1983-Notre Dame 19, Boston College 18. The Irish win their first bowl game since Jan. 1, 1979, as Pinkett once again rushes for over 100 yards. Furjanic comes up with an interception ofDoug Flutie to spearhead the defense, which kept the Eagles from scoring on their final drive. 

•Sept. 
I5, 1984 -Notre Dame 24, Michigan State 20. After an opening-week loss to Purdue, many people gave up on the Irish when they trailed 17-0 at the end of the first quarter. However, Notre Dame roars back as Mike Haywood goes head over heels (oris that heels over head?) to block a punt which sets up the winning touchdown. 


eOct. 27, 1984-Notre Dame 30, I.SU 22. A 3-4 Irish squad refuses to become "Tiger Bait" for highly-ranked I.SU and pulls off the upset. Pinkett carries the ball a school-record 40 times for 162 yards and, son-of-a-gun, the Irish have some fun on the Bayou. 
•Nov. 24, 1984 -Notre Dame 19, USC 7. The "beautiful people" in Los Angeles (pronounced Los An-guh-leeees)arecovered with mud, but it doesn't faze the Irish. Give some credit to the defense, which forced six fumbles, including recoveries by Greg Dingens and Rick DiBernardo. 
eOct. I9, 1985 -Notre Dame 24, Army 10. Remember that back named Pinkett. Well, he just happens to become Notre Dame's all­time leading rusher as he runs for I33 yards in the Irish win over the 19th-ranked Cadets. Tony Furjanic makes a career-high 18 tackles as the Irish defense snaps the wishbone. 
•Oct. 
26, 1985 -Notre Dame 3 7, USC 3. This Irish team becomes the first to win three in a row over the Trojans since the early '60s. Pinkett runs for II0 yards (ho-hum), Ballage intercepts a pass and Furjanic makes 15 stops to key the win. 

•Nov. 
23, 1985-Notre Dame vs. I.SU. 


Here's the chance for the seniors to put a happy en,howhat baabeen an otherwise disappointing career. They owe no one any apoJotPea. They owe nothing to their fellow students. The only people tbey owe a win to is themselves. 

Seniors play gameatND\ 
Pat Ballage 
Ray Carter 
John Cooney 
Pat Cusack 

Rick DiBernardo 
Larry Diedrick 
Greg Dingens 
Tom Doerger 
Eric Dorsey 
Tony Furjanic 
John Grieb 

Mike Haywood 
Shawn Heffern

• Karl Hillerinan R 
Box 

continuedfrom page 1 
When the game starts, howeve Heisler says. Just about every form during the game. "We're t atmoshpere as we possibly can reason why the press box exist media." 
Four television monitors in th and box announcer-Jack Uoy home Notre Dame basketball : of the game situation, along wi other games. 
Four accountants keep track o the game, while approximate!! tion department compile dr: scoring summaries for distrib crew has up to 10 people wor• 
( Above tl five boo\ 
Fits description of a kicker 
coaches, dinators 
ticipatl~

Carney combines strength with accuracy 
outdoor 
By MICHAEL}. CHMIEL 
Sports Writer 

T 
he position of kicker on a football team is one that requires a player who is able to kick a ball for a good distance with a fair amount ofaccuracy. 
It requires someone who has a strong foot and who is strong enough mentally to block out the pressures which may be placed on kicks that might mean the dif­ference between victory and defeat. 
Irish kicker John Carney is one who is able to fit the bill ofa kicker and fit it well. His kickoffs usually fall deep in the end zone or pass over it, and his scoring attempts usually result in points for Notre Dame. 
"The toughest thing about kicking footballs is probably the mental aspect ofthe game," explains Carney. "Most kickers who make it to the collegiate level have the physical ability and technique to get the ball through the uprights. And from there on out, it's just a matter of working on your mental concentration and your muscle control and staying healthy to be successful." 
The 5-10, I70-pound Carney originally came to Notre Dame without any guarantees that he would play foot­ball or that he would earn a scholarship. 
In high school, his first love was soccer, a sport he played from sixth grade onward. In his sophomore year at Cardinal Newman High School in West Palm Beach, Fla., he was asked to both punt and kick for the football team, something he showed he could do quite well. While averaging 41.8 yards perpunt, he also nailed field goals of46 and 47 yards as a junior, and 42 and 49 yards as·a senior. 
Carney was recruited primarily by Ivy League schools and other southeastern schools looking for a kicker to bury the biall deep on kickoffs. He only was looked at by Notre Dame while the Irish were in the process of recruiting teammate Alonzo Jefferson. With a lack of opportunities to play for other major programs, Carney decided to make the best of his acceptance to Notre Dame. 
"I decided that justgettingaccepted to Notre Dame was a big opportunity because, first of all, it's hard to get accepted and I never had any ofmy family attend Notre Dame," says Carney. "I thought that it was a chance that I couldn't pass up. The education is really good here, so that if football didn't work out, at least I'd be getting a good education. 
"(Notre Dame) was recruiting Alonzo Jefferson very hard. When they would come down to talk about Alonzo. on their recruiting trips, our coach always would put in a good word for me. They finally picked it up and offered me what they called 'invite-on status', which means that you come in with all of the scholar­ship athletes and are granted all the privileges they have except for the scholarship." 
As a freshman, the 'walk-on' made the team and earned a monogram, being used primarily in kickoff situations. In his sophomore year, just before the 1984 season was to begin, Carney finally was given a scholarship for his ef­forts. A week before the season opener against Purdue, he was named the starting kicker and given the award. 
After a 1984 season in which he tied an Irish record for 
most points in aseason by a kicker with 76, Carney once 
again is attempting to enter the record books as he is 
second on the team in scoring with 58 points in the first 
nine games ofthe 1985 season. On the year, Carney has 
converted 19-of-22 extra-point attempts and has hit 13 
of his 18 field goal attempts. Of his five misses on the 
year, three were attempted from 53, 57 and 59 yards 
away. 
As a kicker on the Notre Dame team, Carney believes that his position is well-respected. He also believes that in playing for Notre Dame, one must be prepared to capture much attention throughout the country. 
"There always has been a criticism that kickers artm't athletes," explains Carney. "But when it comes down to gettingpoints on the board or getting the ball in the end zone, you become a part ofthe team. 
"It's amazing how much publicity and coverage Notre Dame gets. Starting for the team changes your life be­cause you're in the public eye, and it's incredible how far the public eye reaches. A lot ofpeople all ofa sudden recognize you and know your name, and you have to learn how to deal with that." 
people 
In the R operatio Womer 

And write feren nel a whic 
recei the s puter storie 
"It all 
But at 



Weekend Edition, November U-13, 1985 
"Even though I'm a marketing major, I don't know If down the road I would necessarily like to run my own
Pinkett

ng final 
business. I guess I'm just so used to being on a team and working as a team that Iwant to do the same thingwhen
continued from page 1 

I get out of here. I do have fantasies of having my own
tadium 
restaurant and something like 'Allen Pinkett En­But Pinkett is the type ofperson who sees a silver lining terprises, Ltd.' But I'm so used to the team aspect that
Mike james 
in every cloud. He therefore has found some consola­my degree in marketing would aid me most in working tion in the adversity-filled years he has spent as a Notre on an advertising team or on a public relations commit­
Mike Kiernan 
tee, something like that." 
Dame football player. 

Mike Larkin 
"I don't think that adversity is something you ever get Pinkett always has been a modest person, but he admits used to," he says. "But down the road, If I have any that he does see himself as a sort ofrole model because
Todd Lezon 
problems in life,like lfl ever had a financial problem, IfI of his personal achievements. was running a business and all of a sudden I was going
John McCabe 
bankrupt, I could look back on my college days and say, "I don't try to please anyone else," he says. "But Iguess I 'Now how did I respond when we lost that third game in could see myself as a role model to kids who are in­
>avid McGuffey 
a row at Notre Dame Stadium?' I think we (the players) terested in playing the sport that I'm playing because I have had enough adversity that we're able to deal with feel I went about it the right away. I'm very dedicated to
Tom Monahan 
any type ofadversity we get once we get out ofhere." the sport; it's something that is very important to me. I paid the price, and that's usually how you get to success
Mike Perrino 
Although he admits football has taught him a lot about in any field." 
life, and success on the playing field is important to him,
Allen Pinkett 
Pinkett has managed to keep everythingin perspective. Pinkett himself has never been the type to have heroes or idols, although he says there has been one exception.
Ron Plantz 
"You know, sometimes we (the players) try to em­phasize the fact that it's only a game," he says. "It's taken "The one idol I did have when I was young was my
Tim Scannell 
too seriously by a lot of people. As players we take it brother," he says. "In fact, that's the reason I got into seriously -we put a lot of hours in on the field. But it's playing football, because my parents would take me to 

Jay Underwood 
stiJI a game. It's something to do and have fun. The watch him play high school football. You know how it is beauty of the sport is that no matter what happens one
Hal Von Wyl 
week you still have another chance the following week. 
"/ think we (the players) have had 
In fact, you have 11 chances to do something. You don't 
m Weissenhofer 
enough adversity that we're able to deal
get that many chances in life." 
with any type ofadversity we get once we 
Pinkett's dedication to the success of 
get out ofhere. •• 

the team has paid ott; though. And more 
-Allen Pinkett 
often than not his personal perfor­mance will help sway the outcome ofa 
, "things get a little more organized," game. In the 22 games In which Pinkett when you're little, and you're big brother is like Super­xly has an Important function to per­has rushed for 100 or more yards, the man. Well, that's how it was for me. That's why I pickeding to provide as much ofa working Irish are 16-6. But despite this statistic, the number 20, because that's the number my brother 

" Heisler explains, "because the main is to provide a place for the working 
c box allow the press to see replays , who also does public address for mcs, keeps the reporters informed h providing statistics and updates on 
the official scoring and statistics for 25 people from the sports informa­e charts, defensive statistics and tion to the media. Each television ng as "spotters" and statisticians. 
main press box arc two levels with s each. In these arc housed assistant broadcasters, Red Cross coor­nd officials from both schools par­In the game. There also are two ecks where television crews and the 
ho shoot film for the coaches work. 
ed Croas booth, which has been in n for four years, StaJf Adviser Pete oordlnates the 32 Red Croas volun­
the game, communicating by radio two-man teams in the stadium, the ·aid stations and the three am­It the game. 
'dinator Chuck Unstcr oversees the the coaches' films. His team stays up oxlmately 4:30 a.m. processing the teter films, he says. The rums arc to prints of all offensive plays, all 
plays, all special-teams plays and c-game film. The next week's op­ts a copy of the films, in accordance ft. regulations. 
1 has been running the two conccs­' in the press box for 40 years, along le such as Bob Whiteman, who has 
r: over 30 years. They provide hot 
o 400 a game, they say), doughnuts, I soft drinks free of charge to the 
>fesslonal atmosphere Heisler persists throughout the game, aided U regulation prohibiting cheering 'CII!I box. Nonetheless, occasional ar plays bring writers to their feet d cheers break the smoke-filled air. 
work Is just beginning for most tcr the game is over. A pre1111 con­held In a small room above the tun­~ North end of the stadium." after any reporters go back upstairs to ll'lcial statistics and game notes from a Information staJf. Portable com­nlnals then arc pulled out ~d game r:wrltten. 
kcs for a very long day," Heisler says. 
.at he gets to stay warm and dry. 
Dream comes true with opening win 
plays after, sophomore quarterback Blair Kiel, who would share the passing duties every two series with Tim Koegel, connected with 
fullback Larry Moriarty for the touchdown.


Time Capsule 
by Marty Burns 

Before Faust's thrill had worn off, the Irish struck again, this time on tailback Phil Carter's six-yard touchdown scamper. The drive went 72 yards after an LSU punt, and was helped by a 41-yard run by 
I 
tbink I'll retire now. Yeah, tbts is a good time to retire. another great tailback, Greg Bell. -Gerry Faust 
By the finish, the Irish offense would rack up 376 yards in total of­Oh, how times have changed. Five years ago Notre Dame's rookie fense. Many of these yards were accumulated by receiver-turned­head coach stated those words after his Irish had been named the wingback Tony Hunter, a future NFL first-round draft pick, who No. 1 team in the land. Ironically, it came after Faust's very first game added a touchdown to the winners' cause with a short run. as mentor, a 27·9 victory in Notre Dame Stadium, over LSU of all teams. The defense, meanwhile, came up with several more big plays after 
the early fumble recovery that set up the Irish lead. Cornerback For the jubilant and well-received coach, the whole affair was a Stacey Toran put an end to one lengthy Tiger drive with a leaping dream-come-true. Before the game with the Tigers, Notre Dame was end zone interception, while AJI-American linebacker Bob Crable highly-ranked but a few notches below the top. Afterward, however, made four consecutive stops within the Irish two-yard line to spoil a combination ofseveral upsets and a great performance by the Irish another. left little doubt as to who would be given the top spot that next week. It seemed that nothing on that day could spoil it for Faust, who had 
spent much of the early afternoon socializing with students and Faust certainly had his team in top shape mentally, as both offense visitors on the packed campus. The rotten taste of defeat would and defense came out ofthe tunnel fired up and ready to win one for come the following week in Michigan, when the Wolverines their new coach. The defense set up the first touchdown minutes dethroned Notre Dame from its perch atop the rankings. Into the game, while the offense added a long scoringdrive moments after to demonstrate the completeness ofthe Irish attack. Many would claim it has been all downhill for the Irish since. And, 
although few complaints were heard on that day, many have come in Ifthe new coach had even the slightest inkling that he was in over his the following years. head, he only had to look across the field at the entire Tiger bench. Or at LSU quarterback Alan Risher, who fumbled the ball away at his· Ofcourse, there is one thing no one can ever take away from Faust • own 20-yard line to set up that first Notre Dame score. Five short this day in 1981 when he won his first game on the college level. 
he tends to downplay the presence of any pressure upon him. 
"Ifit is pressure it's welcome pressure," says the Sterling. Va., native. "I like to be in a situation just like that, where I have to come through. I like situations where I have to produce. I feel the most com­fortable in situations like that. It's not any pressure at all. Ifit is a load I'm car­rying. then so be it. I don't mind." 
Pinkett's academic accomplishments meausure up well to his on-the-field successes. Enrolled in the college of Business Administration with a market­ing major, Pinkett always has been an outstanding student. His education figures to play a role in his future · after he takes a shot at pro footbaH, however. 
"Right now the pros are just a way that I 
can get a running start on whatever I 
want to do when I'm done playing foot· ball," he says. "I have to look at the pros because that would make me more money than anything else. 
wore in high school." 

His family, as a whole, plays an important part in Pinkett's football career, and in his life in general. His parents make the drive from their Virginia home to as many Notre Dame games as they can. Last December, Pinkett's parents were able to see their son play in the Aloha Bowl thanks to a fund-raising drive started by their neighbors, which raised enough money to cover traveling expenses. 
"The support I get from my family means a lot to me," Pinkett says, "and the support my parents give me I'm sure I'll give my kids. My parents felt that it was always important to support me in whatever I did. And that means support where they weren't just there when it was time for me to receive an award, but support where they had to help me through the hard times. 
"They've always felt it was very important. In eighth grade they even came to watch me in a fashion show that I was in. My parents have always been people that I could go to with anything. I didn't have to hide a thing from them. I've been very lucky to have two very loving parents." 
And Notre Dame fans have been very lucky to have seen the most productive runner in Irish history in Pinkett. 
Allen Pinkett's Notre Dame -career records 
• 
rushing yards -3,951 

• 
rushing attempts -841 • 100-yard games-20 

• 
rushing touchdowns -48 

• 
total touchdowns -52 

• 
scoring -314 points 

• 
all-purpose yardage -5,016 


Irish Extra -page 4 Weekend Edition, November 22-23, 1985 . 


vs.

The Game 
ByERIC SCHEUERMANN 
AssistantSportsEditor 

After last week's tough loss to No. 1 Penn State, one might think that the Notre Dame football team would have a hard time getting ready for Saturday's contest against the LSU Tigers. 
But Irish head coach Gerry Faust says this is not so. He feels his team has bounced back from the loss and is ready to face the Tigers, who are ranked 17th in the AP poll with a record of6-1-1. 
"The mood of the team is excellent," said Faustearlier this week. "We've had some good practices, and both the players and coaches are in an excellent frame ofmind. We've got a real challenge Saturday against LSU, and we're looking forward to it." 
·The Tigers will be coming to Notre Dame 
Stadium looking to gain a measure ofrevenge 
after losing to the Irish, 30-22, last year. 
The Irish, meanwhile, will be trying to lift their record to 6-4 and gain some momentum heading into the season finale against Miami in the Orange Bowl. A win would give the Irish seven straight victories at home, dating back to last year's 44-7 win over Penn State. 
"We're playing another team that would like 
to make amends for last season, just like Penn 
State did last week," said Faust. "LSU's still in 
the running for some big things as far as the 
bowl situation goes, so they're going to come in here and play hard and we've got to be ready for that." 
Notre Dame's offense vs. LSU's defense: 
This matchup could very well be where the game is decided. The Irish offense performed very well during the team's four-game win­ning streak, but had trouble last week against a strong Nittany lion defense. Things will get no easier Saturday against the LSU defense, ranked second in the nation in scoring defense, allowing only 9.0 points per game. 
The Irish will start Steve Beuerlein at quarter­back this week, while using Terry Andrysiak and the whole second unit at times as well. Bcuerlein now holds the Notre Dame career lead in completions and passing yards with 305 passes caught for 4, 162 yards. 
"We'll go with Steve as the starting quarter­back," said Faust, "and then we'll have Terry run the second unit. I think Terry feels much more comfortable with that unit, and we plan to play the second unit this weekend." 
Tailback Allen Pinkett, Notre Dame's career rushing leader with 3,951 yards, will be trying to become only the 24th player in NCAA his­tory to rush for 4,000 yards as he plays his final game at Notre Dame Stadium. The task will be a stiff one as the stingy Tiger rushing defense has allowed an average ofonly 112.6 yards per 
game. 
Helping Pinkett out in the rushing attack that averages 168.4 yards per game are junior backup tailback Hiawatha Francisco ( 47 carries for 206 

6-3 and 254 pounds, and will present a tough matchup for the Irish. The Tigersecondaryis a young one, starting two sophomores and two juniors, but has 15 interceptions going into Saturday's game. 
"Defensively, they're really impressive," said Faust. "They've shut out a couple ofteams and Florida is the only team to score 20 points against them. 
"They're a very quick defensive football team, probably led by Brooks more than anybody. But their two inside linebackers, Burks and Caston, are really outstanding. Their rushing defense has been super all year. 
yards) and sop­"Their secondary homore fullback might be the best 
Frank Starns ( 40 for secondary we've 161 ). faced this year," he continued. "They're Irish receiving big, strong and they 
leaders Tim Brown 

cover a lot of (22 receptions for 
ground. They don't 364 yards), Reggie have any seniors Ward (20 for 285) 
back there, but they and tight end Tom average a couple of 
interceptions a
Rehder ( 12 for 165) will try to burn an game so they're get­LSU passing defense 
ting the job done." that allows only 
LSU's offense vs. 
192.3 yards per 

Notre Dame's 
game. 

defe_nse: 
Notre Dame's all­The Tiger offense senior offensive line, averages 368.5 composed of Tom yards per game, with Doerger, Tim Scan­a fairly equal nell, Ron Plantz, balance between Shawn Heffern and the run ( 168.5 Mike Perrino, will yards) and the pass make its last home (200 yards). It will appearance Satur­be going up against day, hoping to an Irish defense dominate LSU up which has surren­
front much like it did to teams when the Irish rolled to their four straight wins. 
The LSU defense, meanwhile, will try to con­tinue its impressive ways against the Irish. 
The Tigers are led by junior outside linebacker Michael Brooks, who leads the team with seven quarterback sacks. Redshirt freshman Ron iancho fills the other outside linebacker slot, while Shawn Burks and Toby Caston line up at inside backer. 
Across the defensive line, the Tigers average 

dered just 16 points per game over the last five game~. 
The Tigers are led by senior quarterback Jeff Wickersham, who has completed 140 of 248 passes for 1,530 yards, while throwing only six interceptions. 
Running backs Dalton Hilliard ( 174 rushes for 744 yards and nine touchdowns) and Garry James (78 for 424, five TDs) lead the rushing attack. 
James also leads in the receiving department with 36 catches for 316 yards. Split end Wen­dall Davis has hauled in 24 passes for 372 yards, while Hilliard also has 24 catches for 249 yards. 
"Offensively, they've got the best pair ofbacks we've faced this year," said Faust. "Both Hil­liard andJames are great running backs. They really possess a lot ofspeed. And Wickersham is a top-notch quarterback who has a lot of experience. They really have a diversified pas­sing attack because of the way they throw to their running backs. 
"They're a very experienced team offensively, and they do a lot of different things with the ball. They run from a lot of different forma­tions, and they really present a lot ofproblems for you because of their speed." 
The Irish defense is led by inside linebackers Tony Furjanic and Mike Kovaleski, who pace the team in tackles with 125 and 78, respectively. 
With the return of junior tackle Wally Kleine and senior noseguard Mike Kiernan to the lineup last week, Notre Dame went back to its standard three-tackle, four-linebacker scheme most of the way against Penn State. 
Senior Eric Dorsey, who leads the team with 12 tackles for minus yardage, will start at left tackle, along with Kiernan and sophomoreJeff Kunz across the front. Kleine will back up Kunz at right tackle. 
Sophomore Cedric Figaro will start at left outside linebacker, while junior Robert Banks will get the nod on the right side. The LSU con­test figures to have special significance for Figaro, who comes from Lafayette, La., and is the only resident of that state on the Irish roster. 
Junior free safety Steve Lawrence heads the Irish secondary with five fumble recoveries and two interceptions. Senior Pat Ballage will again get the call at strong safety, while Troy Wilson and Mike Haywood will start at the cornerback spots. 
"Notre Dame is a big, physical football team, probably the largest team we'll play all year," said LSU head coach Bill Arnsparger. "They're very strong and have great talent. They'll pose some problems for us." 
Only one of Notre Dame's last five opponents has rushed for 200 yards as a team, and if the Irish can hold LSU's pair of rushers in check, the Tiger offense will have its troubles. 

PEERLESS. PROGNOSTICATORS 

how each person does against the spread. In other words, it isn't enough to pick the winner of a given game. The person must pick the winner and give the underdog points. Home team is in CAPS.  Jeti'Biumb Sports Eator 56-~ .513 (last week: 5-8-1)  Phil Wolf SpOrts Writer 51-58-3 .469 (last week: 6-7-1)  lMryBurke Asst. Sports Editor 49-60-3 .451 (last week: 5-8-1)  Kelly Portoleee SMC Sports Editor 48-61-3 .442 (last week: 5-8-1)  Chuck FI'Mby Sports Writer 48-61-3 .442 (last week: 6-7·1)  Mike Bobinski Guest Celebrity 55-54-3 .504 (last week: 4-9-1)  UiurleH~ Random Student 53-58-3 .487 (last week: 7-6-1)  
IOWA over Minnesota by 16 Purdue over INDIANA by 7  Gophers Hoosiers  Gophers Boilermakers  Haw keyes Boilermakers  Hawkeyes Boilermakers  Gophers Boilermakers  Hawkeyes Boilermakers  Hawkeyes Boilermakers  
MICHIGAN over Ohio State by 7 Michigan State over WISCONSIN by 5.5 Illinois over NORTHWESTERN by 18  Wolverines Badgers Illini  Wolverines Spartans Wildcats  Buckeyes Spartans Wildcats  Buckeyes Badgers Wildcats  Wolverines Spartans Illini  Wolverines Badgers Illini  Wolverines Badgers Wildcats  
Baylor over TEXAS by 2 ARKANSAS over So. Methodist by 2 Tennessee over KENTUCKY by 3.5  Longhorns Razorbacks Volunteers  Bears Razorbacks Volunteers  Bears Razorbacks Volunteers  Longhorns Razorbacks Wildcats  Longhorns Mustangs Volunteers  Bears Razorbacks Wildcats  Longhorns Razorbacks Volunteers  
Clemson over SOUTH CAROUNA by 5 Penn State over PITI'SBURGH by 6.5  Gamecocks lions  Tigers lions  Tigers lions  Gamecocks lions  Tigers lions  Gamecocks lions  Gamecocks lions  
Syracuse over RUTGERS by 9 OKLAHOMA over Nebraska by 3  Orangemen Sooners  Orangemen Sooners  Orangemen Cornhuskers  Orangemen Sooners  Orangemen Cornhuskers  Knights Sooners  Orangemen Sooners  
Ucla over SOUTHERN CAL by 6.5  Bruins  Bruins  Bruins  Bruins  Bruins  Bruins  Bruins  
NOTRE DAME over Louisiana State by 2.5  Tigers  Irish  Irish  Irish  Tigers  Irish  Irish  


Happenings-page 3 Weekend Edition-November 22-23, 1985 
'Death Wish Ill' continues Bronson's series of gore 
who had to be: stopped. In Bronson's new
KEVIN BECKER 
flick he Is actually encouraged to take: the: law Into his own hands by the: New York police: chief, played by Martin Balsam, and con­
C 
harles Bronson's newest episode: in the tinues to do so In a big way.
"Death Wish" saga has almost everything Bronson is sent by the chiefinto what must-c:xcc:pt good taste:. 
be absolutely the: worst neighborhood in
"Death Wish lll,"a Michael Winner dirc:ctc:d gorc:fc:st, bordc:rc:d on the: c:dge of history next to the: alleyway between Sodom 
I

and Gomorrah. lllis little hc:lltown Is ruledrc:pulsivc: and dc:finitc:ly crossed Into the over by some basket-case gang leader with
realm of the: hyperbolic and ridiculous. The: paint all over his hc:ad who looks like: a reJect from a NavaJo reservation. Ofcourse, he and Bronson do not hit It off from the beginning when they meet in prison and the: gangMovie review~ leader tells Bronson that he Is going to "kill a Death Wish Ill little: old lady for him." Very tastefuL As the action continues and Bronson is
* (out of four) egged on to clean up the: neighborhood by 
situation. The: Choir Is under the: direction of his police chieffriend, the: movie gets Craig Westc:ndorg. ridiculously violent. We arc: treated to such lbis work, whose title: means ''Musical
I 
n honor of the: 400th anniversary of the lovely visions as and old woman with her Obsequies" or "Funeral Music," was commis·
birth ofHeinrich Schutz, the foremost
entire film was so overwhelmingly un­throat slit, a man being pummeled by an axe sionc:d by a nobleman whose court was near
German compsoser ofthe: 17th century, the:
belic:vablc: and predictable: that I would have: and a gang member getting his forehead Dresden, where: Schutz spent most ofhis
Notre: Dame: Chapel Choir will give a concertnodded off during the: film If It hadn't been impaled on a nail. AU ofthis violence: comes mature: career. It Is a selection ofbible: verses
Friday night in Sacred Heart Church.
for the: sound of 3~ miUimc:tc:r machine: gun to a boil as Bronson continues to wipe out and stanzas from church hymns of the: time: as 
The year that has seen the: centenary
fire: and the: blasts ofgrenades resounding bad guys with his pistol that is "powerful well as a reflection on the: brevity oflife: and
celebrations offour ofthe world's foremost
through the: theater. enough to stop any large: game animal." Oh, the perceived Joys ofthe: world to come:.
composers-J.S. Bach, Domenico Scarlatti,
For those who aren't quite: familiar with boy. 
G.F. Handel and Heinrich Schutz -is gradually Although the Schultz Musikalischc: Exc:­the theme of the: previous two "Death Wish" Finally, this movie ends in a blaze ofglory coming to a close. The: 300th anniversary of quien will be: the: central work on the: movies, Charles Bronson plays a tough guy as a myriad ofgang members from other the birth ofJ.S. Bach was given a fitting program, other works will be: performed.
vigilante: named Paul Kc:rsc:y who cruises the: sections of the Big Apple descend on Bron­celebration on campus by a performance of These: works will not only offer a variety of nocturnal strc:c:ts of New York (in the: first son's neighborhood by request from Bron­the monumental B-minor Mass last spring by musical style but also will celebrate yetmovie:) and Chicago (in the: second), son's nemesis. These: hoodlums proceed to the Notre Dame: Chorale: and Chamber another anniversary, namc:ly, the martyrdomblowing away any crc:c:p who gc:ts in his way. burn cars and bomb buildings as a bullet· Orchestra. But what ofthe: other dc:sc:rving ofSt. Cecilia, the: patron saint of music,
The: third In the: "Death Wish" series, proofvest clad Bronson mows them down composers? Nothing has bc:c:n done either on whose: feast is cc:lc:brated on November 22. 
howc:vc:r,lacks any ofthe: bc:lic:vability of the: with automatic weapons. In the: grand climax campus or in the surrounding community to In addition to works by Mc:ndc:l!ISohn and the first two movies. In the: former flicks, the: of the film, Bronson meets up with his mark particularly the: contribution to wes· contemporary composer, Kodaly, the: newlypolice: always rc:alizc:d that a vigilante: was archrival and proceeds to blow him away ­tern civilization ofthe other three com­formed Schola Cantorum will perform works good for malting the: trash of the: town a little: with an anti-tank gun. 
posers. from the Renaissance: period. The: public Is more: lc:c:ry about taking some: guy's wallet, So much for subtlety and so much for 
The performace ofShutz' Musikalische Invited to attend the: 8 p.m. performance:. 
but thc:y did realize: that he: was a criminal "Death Wish III." 
Exc:quic:n Friday will partially rectify this There Is no admission charge:. 
•The 1985100-MJic: Radius Graduate: and Undergraduate: Student Art Ex· hibidon continues this weekend In the Moreau and Little Theater Galleries at 
/MoviesHI The Scoop 
Saint Mary's. Art works from all media arc: accepted, and c:ach artist may c:ntc:r up to three pieces. Gallery hours arc: 9:30 a.m. 
•"Flnt Name:: Carmen," a seductive: 

to 12 p.m., 1 to 3 p.m. Monday through•Friday illusionist Bob Garner will adventure: movie: wiU be: shown at the Friday and 1 to 3 p.m. Sunday. 
perform in Washington Hall. Combining 
.._

Annc:nbc:rg Auditorium Friday night. 
magic an'd mentalism, PM Magazine calls Winner ofthc: Grand Prix at Cannes, 
Theater 
•The exhibit, "Africaand the
him "professional and c:ntc:rtalnlng."
directorJc:an-Luc Godard's most recent 
Americas: A Curacor's Choke:," con­
Tickets for the: 8 p.m. show arc: S1 and arc: 
rc:lc:asc: is a version of the: Carmen opera. 
tinues this weekend at The Snitc: Museum
avallable at Rock du I..ac or at the door. 
This time: Carmen is a terrorist and hc:r ofArt. Museum hours arc: 1 to 4 p.m. captor/loverJose Is a punk bank guard. • The: political turbulc:nce ofNorthern •Sponsored by Lyons Hall, the Painta Saturday and Sunday and 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. The: music Is ~c:thovc:n, not Bizet, but the: Ireland c:xplodc:s onto the stage In the: Tuesday through Friday.
ShamrockonYour Fll'fOrlte Domer 
Images arc: pure: Godard In this 1983 film. 
Notre: Dame: Theater production "The: fundralsc:r takes place: Saturday starting at 
Tickets for the: 7:30 and 9:30 shows arc: Freedom ofthe City" Friday and Satur­approximately 10 a.m. at Lyons Hall. The: 
H. day night In the: Lab Theater ofWas­cost ofbeing painted Is SL hington Hall. Tickets for the: 8:10p.m. performances are S4. 
•Friday Is the Senior Class Block Party at the: ACC Hockey Dome: from 3:30 to 6:30p.m. Consistingoff:ilculty, staff and
!Music 
seniors, this event features food, non­alcoholic and alcoholic beverages and c:ntc:rtainmc:nt. 
•'J'hc Around the: Comer Club prc:sc:nts pianist Pbll Aabera Saturday night at 
•South Dining Hall Is the location of Washlogton Hall. Aaberg's music Is a Friday night's Senior Dinner. The: event mixture: ofall types -rock, country, classi­begins after the: LSU game and includes a cal, Jazz, and rhythm and blues. Tickets for cash bar and entertainment. Tickets arc: the: 8 p.m. show arc: '7gc:nc:ral admi!ISion available: from the Senior Class office:. and S4 with student ID and arc: available: at both Rock du Lac and the: show. .Saturday the: sophomore: class will 
sponsor a conce~t~tlon stand In front of 
•The: Notre Dame: <llapel ChoirFall 
Alumni Hall. In addition to selling burgersConcert, featuring the: works of Heinrich 
and brats, raftle tickets for a Notre Dame: Schutz, will take: place: Friday night at 
football autographed by the team and Sacred Heart Church. The: performance:, 
coaches will be: sold. 

which begins at 8 p.m., Is free:. Sc:c: Hap­penings story above:. 
•Sunday the: Notre Dame: Cham~r Orchestra wiU perform at the: Annenbc:rg lllc:atc:r. The: show, which begins at 4 p.m., Is open and frc:c: to the: public. 
Art 

i?%1 
•Saint Mary's hosts the: "Hltlh School "Freedom oftbe City" Woman's Choir Fc:sdwl" Friday c:vc:ning 
·••trod•«•by """'• zw,"The IMaSS 
at O'l..aughlin Auditorium. The: show Creadvc: Process: Phlllp Guston," will begins at ~p.m. be presented in conJunction with the: The cc:lebrants for Mass at Sacred Heart 
Zisla Retrospective"Accumulations" at Church this weekend will be::
)AssortedtJ 
7:30 in the Activities Room ofthe: South Father Michael Couhig at ~ p.m. (Saturday night vigi.l).
•Saturday night the: Holiday Star 
Theater In Mc:rrtJivUlc: hosts Peter, Paul Bend Art Center. This Is the: second in a and Mary. Wc:ll known for such hits as series offilms and lectures which accom­FatherJohn Fortin at 9 a.m. 
"Puff the: Magic Dragon," "Leavln' On ajc:t •"Cream Your Favorite: Lyonltc:," a pany "Accumulations" and are meant to Bishop D'Arcy at 10:30 a.m. Father Robert Kennedy at 12:1 ~p.m.
Plane:," "The: Wedding Song," and "IfI Had chance: to throw a pic: at a member of both elucidate the work ofHarold Zisla as A Hammer," this group has been together Lyons Hall for the price of 13, takes place well as the creative: proce!IS as a whole. since: the: late: 1960s. Tickets for the 8 p.m. at 4 p.m. Friday under the Lyons Hall arch. Admission is Sl to the general public, 50 •The: Senior Class Mass will take place: 
Sunday in Alumni Hall's chapel at 10 a.m.
performance: arc: Sl ~.95. Proceeds for the event help support Notre cents to students, and free to Art Center AU are welcome:.
Dame's Cambodian family. members. 


The Notre Dame Chapel Choir will perform the works ofHeinrich Schutt. Friday in SoctWJ HNrt Church. 
A tribute to Schutz 



-


Happenings-page 4 Weekend Edition-November 22-23, 1985 
Pub a reminder that bars can still be civilized, quiet 
S 
DAVE DVORAK dolls as a Notre Dame football player, a Notre featura staffwriter Dame cheerleader, and a leprechaun, who together "cheer" the Irish on to victory. And o you've never heard ofDee and Dick's 
you thought only kids played with those McKinley Pub? That's alright. Very few things. Domers have. The clientele at the McKinley Pub consists But even though it lies well o.ff the beaten ofa low-keyed, noticeably older crowd, 
path leading to Bridget McGuire's Filling generally ranging from the early 30s on up. Station and The Commons, the McKinley Pub Most are local regulars who enjoy having a offers a cozy, personable atmosphere with a quiet beer with their friends in familiar 
distinct Fighting Irish flavor. surroundings. You get the feeling that even Even the hrst-time patron feels at home in your parents would feel comfortable here. this colonial, yet collegiate tavern. In many The juke box selection reflects the older crowd, featuring nothing but '50s and '60s records. Other diversions include pinball and electronic darts. Drinks are very affordable: S3.50 will get you a pitcher ofMichelob; mixed drinks range from n.25 to n.so. 
The pub also has a great selection of

ways, the decor mimics that ofan old English 
sandwiches, including chicken patties, ham

pub. Neatly arranged rows ofglassware 
and cheese, and roast beef, all served with

gleam softly behind the rustic wooden bar. 
potato chips for n.25 to n.50. The

Beneath the dim lighting, the dark brown 
sandwiches are good, but because they're 

oaken booths make for comfortable socializ­
heated in a microwave, they may not always
ing conditions. 
be completely cooked. 

The place is kept scrupulously clean and is seasonally decorated. Presently, pumpkins 
Meatballs, deviled crab's meat, smoked rest on tables, colorful paper leaves hang eggs and Tombstone pizzas are oi:her good from the ceiling, and cardboard turkeys and choices from the menu. scarecrows brighten the walls. 
In a nutshell, Dee and Dick's McKinley Pub 

The pub is also tastefully adorned with 
is a well-kept tavern, distinguished by its 

Notre Dame paraphernalia. A 1977 National 
older, respectable patrons and its friendly, 

Championship banner hanging from the back 
relaxed atmosphere. That might sound

wall calls to mind the glory ofFighting Irish 
incredibly boring to you.

yesteryear. Meanwhile, a nearby 1V broad­casts the games each week, reminding the Located at 2930 McKinley Ave. in South patron ofthe not-so-glorious Notre Dame Bend, Dee and Dick's McKinley Pub is open 
present. from 3 p.m. to 1 a.m. Monday through Dee and Dick, the pub's owners, have even Thursday, 3 p.m. to 3 a.m. on Friday, and 12 gone so far as to suit up three Cabbage Patch p.m. to 3 a.m. on Saturday. 
'111o~er/~ .... 

Complete with Fighting Irish paraphernalia and television for watching games, Mckinley Pub o!Jers an evening ofrelaxed entertainment for those looking for good conversation and beer. 
Last Call 

to all Windham Hillfans! 
Nav•mb•r 2Brd 

Wa•hiNJtDn Hall at 8:00pm 
nckeu • 7.00/ •4.00with student I.D. Sold at .Nightwlnds, Record Connection 1111d Office ofStudentActloltles. 

De~I.....­
The friendly service at Dee and Dick's Mckinley Pub helps complete the English pub-type atmosphere. 
TWO DINNERS FOR s1295 
Choose from Pnme Rio. Chicken 
lmpenal. Fned Shnmp. or Orange 
Roughy. A gourmet delight PLUS 
our famous salad buffet and 
your chcJfce of baked potaiO. nee 
pilaf. or hot fresh vegetable 
NEWI NEWI NEWI 
Peel & Eat Shnmp by the bucket Sl. 75 a quaner pound 
~ lll.u..J...• 
~~~-------C-o~1f~ax--~~th-e~R~~er----------------------­
•••~ Reserv~lons Apprecl~ed-23+4477 
Will appear at the Dining Halls 
between 11:OOam and 1:OOpm 
Friday, Nav•mb•r 22nd 
Ev•niftiJ Pr•farmanc• 
in Wa•hiNJtan Hall at 8:00pm 
f I .00 with ND/SMC ID Tickets at Offlcr ofS• udentActlvtles 
_j
_ 

"ie~P--O_i_n__t___________________________________w__ee_k_e_n_d_E_d_it_io_n_,N__ov_e_m_b_e_r_2_2_·_2_3_,I_9_B_s___p_ag_e_I__I 
Euphoria of cocaine outweighed by its damages 
During the: past decade:, abuse: of the: drug known as cocaine: has reached epidemic proponions in the: United States. The: stimulant and euphoriant extracted from the coca leaf has become the: most prized, if not the: most often used, of pleasure-giving sub­stances. While: the · media.. feasts. on the ex­posure: ofprofessional athletes and celc:brltlc:s who have: admitted Involvement with the: drug, a disportionatc: number of cocaine abusers remain hidden, silent and for the: most pan, neglected. It is unlikely that any of these: individuals will appear on "The: Tonight Show" or even "Monday Night Football." They do exist, however, and thdr numbers arc: increasing significantly. 
Lester L. Flemons just the facts 
In the: two-year period between 1980 and 1982, the number of Americans who have used cocaine at least once doubled from 10 million to 20 million. Government figures reveakd that at least 4 million to 5 million, and possible as many as 8 million Americans use cocaine regularly or at least once a month. It is estimated that between 5 and 20 percent of these: Individuals are seriously dependant on the drug. This means that anywhere from 200,000 to 1.6 million Amc:rlcans can be: clas­sified as addicted or nearly addicted to cocaine. From 1970 to 1984, there was a SOO percent Increase: in the number of people seeking treatment for cocaine abuse: In the United States. In an average 24-hour day, 5,000 Americans will try cocaine for the first lime. Experts In the law enforcement and drug abuse: fields believe that the trend of cocaine usc: ha.~ not even begun to reach Its apex. It Is estimated that the incidence of cocaine use and abuse will at least double before It begins to recede or level off. 
What makes cocaine such an overwhelm­ingly popular drug? And what problems does it present for the American public? According 10 Dr. Michael Sheehan of Creative Health Services located at 230 S. Frances St. In South Bend, cocaine satisfies a human being's natural desire to feel good: "Every human being has an inherent need to fed good," stated Sheehan. "Unfonul)lltcly, many of them turn 10 chemical substlnces to reach that desired state:. After a while:, they become ac­customed to fedlng good and being able to control their own emotional state: of mind. This Is how dependency begins." 
Cocaine: produces a pattern of easily iden­tifiable physical effects. Its action on the brain results In a marked Increase In heart rate, measurable elevation In blood pres'sure and constriction of blood vessels. The drug also Increases the: rate ofbreathingand raises inner body temperatures. As a result, the user feels a sense of physical and lntc:llc:ctual power as well as an Increase in energy and alc:nnc:ss. These effects are the: result of cocaine's chemical action within the: brain. The: drug ddivc:rs Its high by disturbing the most poten­tially consequential chemical cycles In the: brain: those that control our basic state of being, the: foundation ofhow we feel. 
In actuality, cocaine's effects merely hc:lghtc:n and dlston normal feeling states. The cocaine high is an artificially Induced and often twisted, amplified and overstated ver­sion of familiar emotions. For some: people, this means that cocaine: may be: a very plc:asureablc: but Inconsequential source of enjoyment. But for a person t2Xc:d with emo­tional problems and stress, cocaine can become a potent diversion, a form of public camouflage:, a way to enjoy exaggerated emo­tions and to avoid unpleasant, buried feelings. "For people: that have been beat up psyc­hologically, and have been battered Into not believing In themselvCii, cocaine Is the drug they arc: looking for," commented Sheehan. "It gives them the feeling back that they used to have; that feeling of being on top of the world. But its only an illusion. It goes away as soon as the drug goes away." When the cocaine wears off, the user usually suffers feelings of pessimism, irritability, Impatience and depression. 
The intoxication of the cocaine high Is variable, depending on the general psyc­hological and emotionai condition ofthe user. The value of the high Is determined by the very subjective experience of the user. "In a lot ofways, the cocaine high Is comparable to an orgasm," stated Sheehan. "Only in one way It's even better because you don't need a partner. For some individuals, the drug can take away the need for sex." Sheehan adds, however, that the drug can also act as an aphrodisiac. "The drug will also stimulate the user to ·the point where he will want a sexual relationship or an orgasm which would create even more pleasure. That kind of stimulation of pleasure centers in the brain is extremely difficult to resist. Therefore, the danger of the drug is doing It once and finding out how good it Is." 
The widespread usc: ofcocaine Is dangerous to American society because: It damages the frequent user's ability toperform his job. With up to 8 million regular users, American society suffers broad negative consc:quencCii. Absenteeism tends to Increase among fre­quent users, who, energized by the drug, will stay up all night and then cannot make it to work or class the next day. The dru8 is par­ticularly dangerous to college students who may feel they need the drug In order to stay awake and study. The "coke break" Is rapidly taking place of the coffee break. Once again, broad negative consequences may result from students' use of the drug. Eventually, cocaine will become more imponant than the stu­dents' academics if he or she uses the drug consistently. "For the regular user, friendships, loyalty and even physical health become Insignificant," stated Sheehan. "The drug becomes the most important thing In your life. It becomes your wife, your brother, your sister and your best friend. You trade in all your little problems for one big one." · 
In one sense, the growing trend ofcocaine use In the United States may be attributed to the widespread use of marijuana. The two drugs are as compatible as man and wife. An individual using cocaine may need marijuana to help "take the edge off" or to ease cocaine's powerful rush. When marijuana was achieving wider social acceptance during the '60s, It became the "great dlflerentiator" In many so­cial circles. To smoke pot at a party in the mid­1960s, or to be: the one to offer It, conveyed an Instant Image of the user as progressive, youth-oriented, open-minded and adven­turous, In a more general sense, smoking marijuana was what symbolically separated Idealistic, uninhibited people or older hipsters who empathized with them, from "up-tight" square parents and authority, figures. Anyone who did not use pot was, and still Is looked upon by smokers as suspect, un­trustworthy, uncool, socially Inept or chicken. "Marijuana Is the major Illegal drug used by our society," assened Sheehan. "If you have marijuana, you have social status among a wide range of people. The fact that the drug Is illegal has been nearly forgotten." 
Recently, cocaine has replaced marijuana as the great diflerentiator. Coke use carries with It the glamour of high living, money, success, sex and power, the implication that one Is bold enough to use it and well off enough to afford it. Where non pot smokers would be: looked at with suspicion, non cocaine users in such a situation are viewed with bemused tolerance and indulgence for their hopeless pedestrianism, their lack oftaste for things ex­pensive, rare, forbidden and wild. 
The most dangerous mythology about cocaine is that It Is harmless. People tend to believe that It Is not possible to overdose: on the: drug. Many users also believe that no one ever died from cocaine usc:. These beliefS are false. Cocaine Is toxic; people do overdose: on It and they do die. The death rate from cocaine-related fatalities rises steadily every year, following the increase in numbers of cocaine users. "Cocaine Is a much more: dan­gerous drug than most people realize," warned Sheehan. "Anyone who does the drug runs the risk ofbecoming psychotic. Taken in large doses over a period oftime, the drug will create paranoid schizophrenia. It literally breaks down the brain's chemistry. 
"Cocaine is the kind ofdrugwhere ifyou do it regularly, you will pay a price: your whole life. For your entire life, you will have a drug hunger that will be outside ofyou control." 
Cocaine use and abuse: are similarly products ofour time:. The cocaine high offers a shon, sweet taste of how we think It must feel to succeed at tbc: American Dream In which so many ofus believe. Itlets us In on the triumph, the ecstasy, the ftush of success. It also feeds the common perception that one need not tolerate unhappiness, disappoint­ment or bad feelings. We tend to think In terms of the quick fix, the technological mar­vel that w4J suddenly make a bad situation good. The cocaine: high gives us the illusion of Instant happiness. In the long run, however, the consc:quc:ncCii of cocaine usc: will greatly outweigh the diug's euphoric advantages. 
LesterL. Flemons Is a senior English major at Notre Dame and a regular VIewpoint columnist. 
ND seniors should play last home game proudly 
To tbe Irish football seniors: 
I know It must seem like a dream. One day you arc: just arriving at Notre Dame and the next you wake up to find you are about to play your last game In Notre Dame stadium. It must be: frightening. Being only a sophomore, I find it hard to recognize the finailty ofcollege, of life. But somehow, as I prepare to watch you and your fellow teammates take the field for the last time in 1985, I get the feeling all things must one day come to an end. 
Kevin Becker 

to the point 
I wish I had gotten to know many of you personally. Maybe that Is just the ex-high school football player coming out in me, but I would have loved to know a group of guys with the guts and determination you have dis­played over the last four years. Week in and week out during the past two seasons, I have seen all ofyou run onto the fOotball field ready to play ball, despite the circumstances you had been faced with the previous week. 
I know It had to be tough hearing and reading all of the criticism that was strewn across the nation by students, fans and alumni. The bad press probably didn't bother. you as much as the disgruntled fans, so close to your hearts, who mistook your frustration for a lackluster attitude. You listened to everyone take their shots at you, you sometimes heard boos from the very students whose suppon you needed so much and sometimes you even didn't even understand your own cir­cumstances. But every week, without fall, you managed to muster the strength and courage to take the field and represent the Irish. 
I know some people will never understand the guts It took for you to struggle for four long years of seasons judged "below par" by the Irish fans and the nation. I often wonder if they really mean It when they say at times that you "didn't want to win." I have never seen an Irish football game In which the team mem· bers, especially the seniors, didn't want to win. God knows that you try as hard and play with as much determination as you can; unfor­tunately, you, as we all do, sometimes fall short. 
Could coaching have been the ultimate demise of the past five: Irish teams? Possibly. But all of that should be: pure nonsense to you now. Maybe Gerry Faust was not the man for the job or maybe: luck just was not with this Irish coach. Whatever the situation, your four years as a football player here are waning fast, and nothing that you do now can change the past. 
There is nothing left for the Irish seniors of 1985 except the future, and the future stans tomorrow. Tomorrow Is the day when the LSU Tigers will come to Notre Dame and try to take away the fondness of your last moments at home as a Notre Dame football player. They will try to take all of the work that has gone into your four long years here and make them seem like they were all for nothing. They will be reveling In the criticism of you and the beratement of your coach by your "fans" and remembering the Penn State loss. They will try to prove themselves better than you and take away your last glimmer ofglory. 
Do not let them do that. Do not give them and the Notre Dame fans a chance to walk out ofthe stadium claiming the '85 season was just a bad dream. Let them, for the last time, see the character that has allowed you to per­severe for four long years of criticism and thankless hard work. Prove: to them you are composed of the same stuff that has made Notre Dame: football great for almost I00 years. Prove It to them by summoning up your best effon ever, and, dCiiplte the outcome, let none ofyou walk offof the field knowing that you could have done better. 
Kevin Becker Is a sopbomore In tbe College ofArts and Letters at Notre Dame and an as­sistant Viewpoint editor. 
Viewpoint Policy 
• All letters to the editor submitted to The Observer become the propeny of The Observer. Letters must be typed, no longer than 2SO words and signed by the author. The Observer reserves the right to edit all material received. 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239·5303 
The Obs8f'Ver IS the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the admmistration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­Sible. Uns1gned editorials rept'esent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­tanes. leners and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through leners. is encouraged. 
Editorial Board 

Editor-In-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan News Editor ............................................. Frank Upo News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Sports Editor ........................................... Jeff Blumb Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches Copy Chief ........................................ ,. Philip H. Wolf 
• 
Commentaries In The Observer do not necessarily reflect the opinions of The Observer. 

• 
The Observer encourages commen­taries from all members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community. 


Operations Board 
Business Manager... . ............... Dav1d Stephemtch Controller ............... ............ Wilham J. H1ghducheck Advertising Manager... . ..... J1m Hagan Systems Manager... . .... Mark B. Johnson Production Manager.. . ...... John A. Menneli 
Founded November 3, 1966 
-

Accent 
Weekend Edition, November 22-23, 1985-page 12 
Essays are blessed with students' honesty 

Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
F
ather David Murphy, a Carmelite 
teaching theology at Saint 
Mary's, represents to me a priest's 

idea ofa priest: he has warmth, wit, 
goodness, charm, and an Irish faith 
which probably struggles with the 

mystery of things. I hope David has 
doubts, because doubts are part of 
the holy restlessness ofthe soul on 
a pilgrimage to God. 

David as a theology professor has done an enviable thing: he has edited a book ofessays, entitled "What I Believe," by I5 Notre Dame/Saint Mary's students as part ofthe requirements ofa class he teaches. Each essay represents the first chapter ofa spiritual autobiog­raphy. Some ofthe young men and w:omen struggling to express the meaning ofGod in their lives are not, as Father Murphy points out, "in complete accord with tradi­tional Church teaching," which is perhaps an understatement. Father Murphy's courage shows, I think, in letting us see the honesty ofa generation ofCatholics born around the time Vatican II ended. 
Apriest teaching theology might feel uneasy with students who 
shrug offthe authority of the Church or the necessity ofthe Lord's resurrection. Tennyson wrote: "There lives more faith in ones doubt, believe me, than in half the creeds." 
Karl Rahner, whose name these novice theologians often invoke, would agree, I think, with Ten­nyson's great line. It seems to me that if all we ever have to offer God are honest doubts, God will turn those doubts into the grace of reconcilliation that will save us. Father Murphy hasn't tried to turn the speculations ofhis scholars into a chorus ofassent subscribing to the verities which conservatives regard as time-tested. He lets us see what's on the minds ofsome ofthe 20-year-olds we meet at Mass. 1bis is work for Christ for which Father Murphy should be praised 
A traditional Catholic might be tempted to go through these essays with creeds and catechism in hand, checking for heresies. This, I think, would be misdirected zeal. In the grand, old, pre-Vatican II days ofthe '50s, I attended a conference at the Morris Inn at which professionals were examining the condition of Catholic theology. The gloomy conclusion was that our theology had become static or stagnant. The watchdogs oforthodoxy were killing Catholic theology: they were strangling ideas still a-borning as dangerous and subversive. 

Nobody wanted to write books that were going to be zapped by Rome as heretical, before experts even had a chance to discuss them. The living truth ofChrist's church was becoming as dead-ended as the fossils in a museum case. Something had to be done, the conference said. Three years later, John XXIII an­nounced the Council. 
The miracle of this little book is that it represents the efforts of young Christians to think creatively about Faith; Faith, for heaven's sake: hell, sin, grace, God, and the Kingdom of God. Ninety percent of the students go to Mass on Sunday; halfofthem go on missions of mercy to the widows and orphans. I like meeting students, full ofholy curiosity, trying to figure out what they think about their everlasting questions. Only a Catholic cur­mudgeon would chide them for their blind spots. They should be praised for letting in the Spirit of God Who makes them care about truth. They are doing what pilgrims of the absolute have always done: ligb1i.ng candles rather than cursing the darkness. 
Wednesday's Observer carried a review ofa novel written by a junior at Bennington called "Less Than Zero." The book was devastat­ing in its picture ofcollege-age youths. Ellis, the author, says lots of kids want to buy into the kind of youth culture he depicts. IfEllis typifies the exposure to life that Bennington students get, Father Murphy and his colleagues must be doing something right in encourag­
ing their classes to begin the great dialogues offait~. 
It would be nice ifNotre Dame and Saint Mary's were still -as they once were -like finishing schools for undergraduates well-trained in the Catholic religion. The truth is, a number ofentering freshmen seem like Christian illiterates, though they have lots ofgood will towards the mystique that shines spotlights on the dome. 
I meet students, who after I2 years of Catholic schools, are unac­quainted with some basic ideas. In their senior year ofhigh school religion, they read "Catcher in The Rye" and "A Separate Peace," great books without a doubt, but neither ofthem the least mystagogical. One high school senior was given a course in Death and Dying, after the style ofElizabeth Kubler-Ross. When they get here, some ofthem need to begin with the theology primer. 
College life is often contrasted with the real world. This school is not the "real world" students tell each olher. The "real world" doesn't have maid service, laundry service, a meal ticket three times a day. I've got news for them: Notre Dame is "real" enough. 
Ask Sister jean Lenz in Student Affairs, after she's had the sad duty ofcomforting the parents of stu­dents to whom the tragedies have happened. Ask Father Greg Green, former assistant to Father Van, who spent years going to hospitals, jails and funerals, and doing other forms ofcri$iS intervention. Father Greg is one of the kindest priests I have ever met. Neither he nor SisterJean would have to love this place so much ifit weren't part ofthe real world where the dark shadows fall, and the faith problems have to be worked out. 
Boswell told the great Dr. Johnson that he had heard a woman preach. Johnson said: "Sir, a woman's preaching is like a dog's walking on his hind legs. It is not done well; but you are surprised to find it done at all." I was agreeably surprised at "What I Believe," but it was not the least bit like a woman's preaching. I'm grateful to the stu­dents for the insights they have given me for my own spiritual 
autobio~aphy. 

Purdue. becomes Irish's first victim as Gipp sparkles 
Notre Dame football team lose. Frank Purdue's coach ordered his team to try fourth quarter. After a Purdue punt, Collins 
Tbls ts tbe tentb episode In Tbe Leahy's "lads," as he called them, had the two-point conversion. He didn't have connected on four straight passes to Ryan Observer's serialpublication oftbe Notre compiled a record of 36-0-2. much choice; he was running out ofkick­O'Connor to move the Irish to Purdue's 38. Damefootball story, "Tbe Glpper's Gbost." He remembered attending a game in ers. His placekicker had been eliminated Reagan got the ball and maneuvered In last week's episode, Fatber Rock (tbe I984 when Notre Dame welcomed the early in the game, when Dutch Reagan through the Purdue defenders to open field. gbost ofKnuteRockne) unveiled tbe "Ten I949 championship team home for a "silver charged through the line and literally sent a The Purdue safety made a brilliant tackle at Commandments ofNotre Dame," ten rules anniversary" celebration. The modern Irish Purdue blocker flying into him. The 245-the six. ofconduct (appllcab~e on and offtbefield) team had trailed at halftime. After the I949 pound lineman-turned-missile had The Fighting Irish wouldn't be denied. tbat, iffollowed, wouldguide tbe team to team members had been introduced during deflected a field goal attempt and saved Mike Samick, the center, exploded the victory. the halftime ceremonies, the student body Reagan a penalty for roughing the kicker. middle of the Purdue line. Collins practi­
chanted, "Suit 'em up! Suit 'em up!" At the The Purdue coach selected a reliable play cally walked in for the touchdown. 
time, most ofthe men were in their 50s. that had worked to perfection all season Tom Robert's extra point gave the Irish The alumni kept track ofeverything that long. His senior quarterback, the speediest their first lead in two years. impacted on the Notre Dame football in the Big Ten, faked a handoffto the ful­Notre Dame 7 -Purdue 6. 
Victory at last 
J 
oe Kelly nervously paced the sidelines. 
program. Even Father Theodore Hesburgh, lback and darted toward the corner. The Boilermakers still had time to pull it 
He was anxious for the Purdue game to 
the world-renowned president of Notre Not this time. Dutch Reagan met him at out. They only needed a field goal to
begin. 

Dame who had won more honorary the one and introduced him to two unwary recapture the lead. With time running out,
Every home game posed unique chal­
degrees than Knute Rockne had won sideline photographers. The dazed quarter­the Irish would have no chance to retaliate.
lenges for the head football coach at the 
football games, wasn't immune. At one of back recovered a Canon AE-I in the end Reagan sacked the Purdue quarterback
University of Notre Dame. Notre Dame 
Hesburgh's many retirement parties, the zone. A bewildered photographer tried to three times in succession to prevent him
Stadium was a place where men were 
president ofthe Notre Dame Club of capture the moment on pigskin. from running or throwing out ofbounds to
measured against myths, a place where 
· Chicago had publicly called attention to the Notre Dame took command late in the stop the clock. He could tell time, too. And, 
59,075 assistant coaches voiced immediate 
Irish football team's winning percentage 
he reasoned, if Purdue failed to score, the
approval or displeasure after every key 
during the Hesburgh years. Irish wouldn't need to retaliate.
coaching decision. Notre Dame's loyal 
And then there was the greatest legend of On fourth and l 7, Purdue flooded the
legions had one standing order: on fourth 
all, Knute Rockne himself. In I3 years as end zone with receivers. But Reagan's 
and one, go for it! 

head coach at Notre Dame, from I9I8 to onslaught forced the quaterback to throw
Few audiences were more 

I930, Rockne's teams won I05 games, lost hard and in a hurry. The ball sailed harm­
knowledgeable about the game offootball; 
I2 and tied 5. No coach, past or present, lessly into the wall. pro or college, had ever surpassed his The clock was running down. The stu-The Glpper's Gho~ winning percentage in major competition. dent section took up the chant: Rockne had five undefeated seasons, three Ten.
Chopte' ~8!'1 ~ national championships and a reasonable NINE. claim to a fourth. Who knows what Rockne EIGHT. might have accomplished ifhe hadn't been SEVEN. 
none expected more from the young men killed in a tragic plane crash at the age of SIX. who wore their colors. 43? FIVE. 
Kelly knew the statistics. He could quote Rockne had set a standard for excellence FOUR. the figures from Notre Dame's.first 95 at Notre Dame that few coaches since had THREE. seasons with ease. The litany ofsuccess been able to match. Frank Leahy and Ara TWO. included an overall record of634-I81-40. A Parseghian had come very close. WON!!! winning percentage ofmore than 75 per­Despite such pressures, Kelly remained • Students cascaded onto the playing field, cent. Eighty-four winning seasons. Eleven • optimistic about today's game. The Irish Boilermakers, trading insults, inj~ries and rippling down from the northwest rows of unbeaten, untied seasons -five ofthem had enjoyed their best week ofpractice, he the football. Both offenses generated stadium benches. A swirling flood ofgolden under the legendary Knute Rockne. Ten thought, since he had taken over as coach. yardage between the 30-yard lines, both helmets swept Coach Kelly up to its crest. more in which the Irish were unbeaten but The addition of Dutch Reagan and the new defenses stiffened at the 30 and proved The Band of the Fighting Irish struck up the suffered one or more ties. Twenty-five chaplain, Father Rock, had improved absolutely unyielding at the 20. Notre Dame Victory March as 59,075 pairs seasons in which only a single loss spoiled morale considerably. Reagan took some of The hard-fought struggle took its toll. of hands applauded. an otherwise unblemished season. During the heat off Collins, who had up until now Exhausted players left the field or were In the lower levels ofthe press box, John the first 95 years, only seven losing seasons been the major offensive threat. When carried off. Kelly began substituting.fresh Thornton fought for a telephone. This was had blemished the golden tradition of receivers failed him, Collins scrambled as players early in the fourth quarter. Purdue's news! 
Notre Dame football. well as any sophomore in the land. Collins quarterback, a seasoned veteran, knew a Notr~ Dame had won a football game! The class of I950 had been especially said it was because he wished to live to be a green freshman when he saw one. He To be-continued ...
-
privileged. They entered the University in junior. burned the unfortunate Kevin O'Hara for a the fall of I946 and graduated in the spring The battle was joined. For three quarters, touchdown, spoiling his debut as a corner­From "The Gippcr"s Ghoot." copyril!ht 1985 by Robcn 
Quakenb...h. Published by O'Connor Publishing Co. Rcprimcd by
of 1950. In all that time, they never saw a the Irish stood toe to toe with the Purdue back. 
permission. 

,··~----iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii......~---~ 
....:..., 

The Observer Weekend Edition, November 22-23, 1985-page 13 
Sports Briefs 
The ND I SMC ski team will hold a meeting Mon­NVA All-nighter T-shirts are still available at a day between 6:30-7:30p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theater. Fund­cost of $5 at the NVA office in the ACC. Shirts can be picked up from raising materials will be distributed and all members should attend. 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday.-Tbe Observer For more information call Tony jordan at 283-4057.-Tbe Observer 
An NVA hydrorobics sample class will take place
The ND Weight and Fitness Club w111 spon-Friday at 7 p.m. in the Rolfs Aquatic Center. Non-swimmers are sor a bench press competition on Sunday, Dec. 8 at a time and loca­welcome to partake in the water aerobics. For more information call tion to be announced. Sign-ups are being taken in the third floor the NVA office. -Tbe Observer weight room of the Rockne Memorial Building, and any member of the ND/SMC community is welcome. For more information call Pat Browne at 283-2056.-Tbe Observer A pep rally for the ND football team will be held Friday at 
7 p.m. in Stepan Center. Guest speakers will include Allen Pinkett, Mike Larkin, coach Mal Moore and Head Coach Gerry Faust. -Tbe An NVA one-on-one basketball tournament Observer 
will be held Monday, Dec. 2 at 7 p.m. on the ACC Arena floor. Scp'arate double-elimination contests will be held for men under and over six feet tall and for women. Registrations will be accepted at the see BRIEFS, page 14 NVA office in the ACC until Wednesday, Nov. 27.-Tbe Observer 
The Ohserr•er '>otrt· l>amt· olfk". lot·alt·<.l on lht· lhir<.l Ooor of Lal·onum· ~lu<.lt·nl Ct·nlt·r. JtTt'PI' da"'fi"<.l a<l\'t'rli,in~ from 9 a.m unlil ~ p m ..\lon<.la\ lhrou~o~h ht<Ja\ 1he Ohst'T'I't'r ~ainr ~tan··, offin·. hll'alt·d on lht· lhtr<.l Ooor of lla~~ar Colk~t· ( .t'nll'f. at'l't'Pt' tla"ilk<.l' from I.Z .\0 p m unitI ~ p m. ~ton· da\' lhou~o~h fri<.la\ lka<.llint· lor nt'Xt·da\ tla"ilk<.l' b .\ p.m All da"ifkd' muM ht· prt·pat<.l. t'llht·r tn pt·rMtn or h\ marl ( .har~t·" I 0 n·nt• pt'r fi\'t' t'harac
Classifieds 
ll'f' ·r <.Ia\ 
.... .

Opener 
._,. 

continuedfrom page 20 
spots. The guards are Keith Miller, a 6-2 junior, and Matt Weber, a 6-1 senior. 
Wingard and Weber are the top guns for St. joseph's. Wingard averaged 13.1 points and 6.1 rebounds last season, while Weber chipped in 12.7 points and 5.3 rebounds. 
Notre Dame is coming off an im­pressive 109-88 exhibition win Wednesday night over Smelt Olim­pija ofYugoslavia. In that game, Ken Barlow led the host Irish with 32 points, 26 in the first half, with David Rivers adding 1 5 points and 10 as­sists. 
As against Smelt Olimpija, Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps will start a lineup of Rivers and Scott Hicks at guard, Barlow and Donald Royal at forward, and Tim Kempton at center. 
l 
... 
j 

NOTICES 
TYPING AVAll.A81..E 287-4082 
TYPING CALL CHillS 214-l1117 
HELP WANTED 
leO.OO PER HUNDRED PAlO lor 
pr.,._ng 11'11111 at holM! lnlormatlon. 
Mnd Mlf·addr..-d, otamped envelope. 
Maoclat..",lloll85, ~. --y
07203 
UPUI'T TYPING I«JJVICE. CALL ..... COKP, Z»JWe. 
BUatN!U UPfii!U,INC. Wordpr.,.,_ng IIOd ly!Mng 272-8827 
TYPING 
277-4041 Filii PICKUP I OILIVIJIY 
TYPING DONI BY IAU.Y. 172-717J. 
LOST/FOUND 
LO.T 
One women·• Pulllt -ten (IIIIIKI<)
-•ell1254/llound 
Have you loll an umtwll lalely? Old you leave It on 1 tray In the dining hll? Wll then you ·re In luck. Cll Anna Ill 1320 to clllomlt. 
FOliNO: A woolan cap on thelidewall< in lront ollhe Noire Dame Poet Office. May bedaimedlnRoomB-111Fitzpeickorby 
olllng~1. 
HIGHSCHOOL JACKET LOST: VERY, VERY, VERY SENTIMENT ALII plctuta ol New York otale on back-"CHRIS" on front-"12"on -e If you r.cum It, I promiM 1'1 make It WOf1h your while THANK YOU I Chrte 1453 
LOST: PAIR OF OLA88ES. 001.0 ME· TAL FRAME AND SLIGHTLY TINTED. WERE IN A SOFT, BROWN CASE. IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL 3404. 11-iANK· YOU. 
FOUND A WHITE YARN CAP. SUNDAY EVE NINO IN FRONT OF DILLON HALL. 1431 
LOST: amll cameo ring on Monday 11/18 ·maybe In N.Oining Hll or BP. If lound, PLEASE cal 12&1 REWARD 
LOST-NO ROUND METAL KEYCHAIN AND FOUR KEYB-SOMEWHERE IN EN· GINEERING BLDO. CALL ANNE 277· 
75e6. 
................................................ 
LOST AT SMC ·GOlD WOMEN'S 11185 HIGH SCHOOL CLASS RINO ON 11/8185-GARNET STONE· INITIALS CAS INSIDE • REWARD CALL CHERYL AT2&4·110111 
LOST IN MADELEVA • A PURPLE FOLDER CONTAINING ALL MY MANAGEMENT ASSIGNMENTS IN­CLUDING FINAL EXAMIIII IF FOUND PLEASE CALL UZ 284-4102 PLEASE HELP IT IS VERY IMPOATANT I GET THISIIACKIIIII 
L6ii:r···:..··alii\Oli't.iriv'"'o1Ri::ii····e·ve 
OLASSES BETWEEN 11-iE OAOTIO BUS STOP AND FLANNER. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL THERESA AT 284-4128. 
FOUND: VARIOUS JACKETS WITH "KENOSHA", "ILL. STATE", ''T.T. LAWN SERVICE", AND "MALDEN CAT· HOLIC". CLAIM AT LOST AND FOUND, LAFOATUNE LOST!!! 14k. gold rope chain tnc.let,poealbly in Art bldg. pleMe ell 277 ·1256 THANKS! 
.................................. ..................... 
Loel: My lather lolt hie Om~Q~~ -tch eom...nere on campue on the Saturday ol the Mluleeippi game, Nov....-II. Thle -lch haa great penonal value lo h1m. It haa a leather bend, with hill com­pany·• lntiti.... WNL. on Ita face. The -tch _, haa hla name engraved on It in ecript John K. Drake. PleMe cal 234· 0363 or 284-5236110d Mk for RoM if you have any Info about thie -ldl. Thank you! 
LOST! A grey S-lch with a black lace IIOd two e-tchgaurde. P-'bly at the Rockne Memonef. Wu111ven to me by my Hometown Honey and hM gralll een­timental value. Large rewlrd ollered!!! PleMe cal Eric at 283 2568 
FOUND: 14K OOLD BRACELET IN THE LIBRARY. TELL ME WHAT FLOOR AND THE DATE LOST TO CLAIM. 4364. 
LOST: Silver M..,_ with Our l...edy on fronl IIOd Santo Nino on beck. I thlnl< !loft it In the Rock on 1/17. If you found It pleMe call Rich al24158. 
For naxt Mrneeter furnllhed houll 5 bedrooma good erM 1 mile north ol N.D. 277-3804 
Nlcelurnllhed homee for nut llchool ~ 277-3804 
HOUSE FOA 2ND SEM. 3 BORM, GREAT SHAPE. STUDENT NBHO NEAR CAMPUS CALL 277-()1188 AFTER 8P.M. 
WANTED 
-ri'*-to Atlanta •• 11/27·12/1. Cll Ed 232-8230. 
HELPOON'TLEAVEMESTRANOEOAT SMCI NEED RIDE TO CINCINNATI FOR THANKSGIVING BREAK PLEASE CALL ANNE AT 284-54011 WILL SHARE IN EX· PENSE& 
RIDE/RIDERS TO LEXINGTON FOA 11-iANKSOIVING. DON'T MAKE ME EAT TURKEY HERE. CALL MIKE,16« ANYTIME. 11-iANKSI 
Rl'*-needed beet< lo NO from Sl Louie ~vlng. Call Mike ) 288-4650. 
Hlllpll naed4 LSU GAS. Cll MlkeX1145 
YOU CAN HILP Ml GaT HOIII or.you-tumlhe.,.... lll*,___toWMH., D.C. lotT-tJYI..II!n& John U4-74tz 
................................................................ 
,_ANTEO:TUOORING IN BABIC CHEMISTRY.MAKE AN EASY EXTRA BUCK AND HELP SOMEONE 
OUT.CALLALEX,EVENIN08,28~. 
I naed a ride to Cleveland for 1'~1an~ca~Pv· lngll I wil leave either Tu-y or W.O. n-y and wil coma back Fridey, Saturday or Sunday! Wll Slw'e ex­
,.,_,u..21165 

Ride needed to AKIION for Turtcey Day onTu•.26after12:1511 ca11Moelll4173 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$IF YOU ARE GOING TO BE AROUND DURING CHRISTMAS BREAK AND WOULD LIKE TO EARN SOME EXTRA $$$$$$. THE PHONE/ MAIL PROGRAM IS JUST 11-iE PLACE FOA YOU! PARTICIPATE IN CALLING ALUMNAE OF SMC IN AN EX­CITING FUND RAISING VENTURE. SMC STUDENTS ONLY. CALL MARTHA OR PAT AT 5351 TODAYIII Need ridtt to Northern Chicago for 
Thank8glvlng leaving Wed. Cll Megan 
284-51118 
.... ....... ...... ................................ 
RIDERS NEEDED TO NORlliWEST 
CHICAGO AREA FOR BREAK. 
LEAVING MON. AFTERNOON. CALL 
BOB 1693. 
Ride needed lo Cincinnati for Thank8glv­ingbreak. Ca1Joeat4181 
WANT RIDERS TO PITISBURO AREA 11/27-12/1. CALL ELAINE272-7245 
FOR SALE 
............................................,.................... 
'76 TOYOTA WAGON 4-CYLINDER, 4 SPEED. SOME RUST, RUNS VERY WELL PRICE: $750 2n-5294 EVENINGS. 
'83 RENAULT ALLIANCE DL, 4DR. 5SPD TRANS, AM-FM CASSETTE, LOW MILEAGE, 2 YEAR WARRANTEE, EXCELLENT CONDITION, $4225, 287­
6493 
GREATX-MASGIFTSGive N.D. Footbll Progrwne 10 your ,.,_,c:~Mamat•.ancl triende. Have programa back to the 1930'1. Cll Ken (2111) 277-4342. Have progr11ma II'Orn the winning y-.1 
FunkShunArt Hand-painted clolhlng, aap. T-lhlrtl & -tlhlrta, tho poeelbllti• endleM. Or•l for Xrnae glfla. Every lhlrt par­IIOnllllzed Your dMign IUQIIallliona ......,.,..,., PleMe lnqulre1112811-51118 for more info on thla unique falhlon phenorn. Funklhunart by PauiMd.Mn 
TICKETS 
LSU GAa FOA SALE.272-6308 
WILL PAY IIIG IWCKB FOR 2 GA'B TO '041 NO VI. BT. JOUPHB IIMKIT· IIALL OAIII '0411 FIIDAYII CALL 
MIKIAT1171 
NEED TWO LSU OA'S 283-4332 
NEED LSU TIX.. 232-146611fter 3. 
I have 6 LSU OA'e lor ule. Baal oil... Eric 1S27. 
HELP! I NEED 2 ST JOE'S 8-BALL TIX CALL2075 
NEED LSU TICKETB-OA'S AND STU­DENT CALL 277~740 
2 LSU OA'S FOA SALE BL081222 
Need LSU Studttnt Tlcklll for a very beautiful lady. call Paul at 3510 
6 LSU GAa for ule Baal Offer Cll Saan 2075 
FOA SALE: Two LSU OA'e. Cll Merlhe at 284·5019. 
MY VISITING BROTHER SAID TO ME "GET ME 2 LSU TIXS DR I'LL KILL VA" PLEASE HELP SAVE THIS SCARED SIS! CALL 284-4201. 
1 LSU ltd tickel $13 272-90110 
NEED 1 LSU TIC RALPH 2n-121111 
NEED 2 ST. JOE'S TIX (GA or STU· OENn 272-2454 
FOR BALE: 2 L.UOA'a. 1111 x10Q. 
HAVIILBUGAa Only want f_v..e Cll Nancy 11 283-21185 
Wanted: T-FCIOIMII liD Why: I don't know Who:Joaet:IU-1127 

I'm a eenior who loa! hie footbll ticketa IIOd won'l be able to go to my 1M! foolbll game • a ltudttnt u,.._-.... me hla or her llludent ticket. Cll Dan al 1768./'M DESPERATE 
NEED LSU OA'S PLEASE CALL 284­4346ANNETTE 
PERSONALS 

You know ;;;~ ..y;;;;";;;;"i;;;;i~:"i;i people our.lde aH aomelhillfl dllf.,.nt. 
You c.n chooae to becomelhe/tNfle, and let flO of who you are, or con~nue u you we and feel phony when youplay lhe imaQe. 
-Richard Bach. The llrldlaA«GMF-• 
OAR HOUSE: COlO BEER I UQUOA. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N., 1 BLOCK SOUlli OF HOLIDAY INN. 
PREGNANT? 

NIIDHILP? Call 234-o363. 24-hr. holllna, couneellng & lr•pregnancy,_, 
WOIIIN'B CAlli CINTIII 

Earn $$$ for II thON booka you didn't readll PANDORA'S wil buy your uaed bool<8 M-F 11-4. or we can help you find a uaed book for a"'-·We're open M-F 11­6, SAT & SUN 10.5. PANDORA'S Ia op­poeite CORBY'S at 937 South Bend Ave. 
Applicationa for AN ToeTAL UICUTIVI COIIIIITIII poeitiona are available In thelludent government olli<:e on the MCOnd floor ol La Fortuna. Artyone lnlerallled In working for the zanlaet group on campue lhould apply by Oacernber 2. Arty quellliona? Cll Kendra Etvan at 2811­4417. 
HUNGRY? Cll YELLOW SUBMARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery houll: 5prn-12pm Mondlly-Thrulday: 5pm-2am Friday: 3pm-1 am Saturday: and 4pm-1 Opm Sud­nay. 
<*EJIYEIITUIII There II a party !hie Fridey nlgllt and It Ia for you. PleMe come. Check In lhe office for all the dlllllll. 
jj"'":"""""'""""""""'""""""""""""""Nlld help-Mk St. Jude 
THE BRIDE IS BACKII 
11-iE BRIDE IS BACKII 
THE BRIDE IS BACK II 
....,..._lly 
Mertllon Depache Mode Aala 
v. 
Freddie Jackeon Eddie Murphy 
andlo'-rnor.l 
ONLY ...II 
Rock duLac, fil'81 floor L..aFortuna 
TDKIAIO blank rap• ONLY 2 for $3.116 While eupply IMta Rockdu Lac 
Marc Ramirez II a MADMAN! 

How about a gu•t column, MADMAN? 
Den Murphy, 
Welcome to NO! 
Remember Murphy'• L•w uye, "N1111er 
tum_, a free beer!" 
YO IWNNY You're no longer lal..,·you ole' ...,.,.., you! So guya , give her a cal Ill 2834 to catch her In action or IIOp by room 3111 Wlllllh to put herln acllon IIOd wilh her a happy 18th! Luv, Crowber Woman, Loa! &heap, Lana Roomla, Zippy IIOdSexy Me 
LOGAN NEEDS TICKETS! LOGAN CENTER NEEDS EXTRA LSU TICKETS TO TAKE KIDS TO 11-iE GAME ON SATURDAY. TICKET COLLECTION AT 11-iE DININO HALLS 11-iURSOAY AND FRIDAY NIGHTS. SEND A LOGAN KID TO WATCH 11-iE IRISH! 
LOGAN VOLUNTEERS: DANCE FRIDAY NIGHT 7:30-10:00. FOOTBALL REC AT 10:00 SATURDAY. SMC VAN PICKUP AT 7:10 FRIDAY AND 11:40 SATURDAY. 
NIW OfiLIANI TAILGATEIIIII 
Everyona from the New OriMnl ­lhould llop the New OriMnl CUI .._ party!" Plenty of lood IIOd ~quid relrelh­menl. " tha lrtllh win, you LSU f-we 
lnvited_,lll 
................................................................ 
-io ride to and from Chicago? Ridel to IIOd from Chicago, Fly chaaper !han tha altllneel Cll PlanarnMter ~ Inc. 
312-377-5730 
DESPARATELY NEED RIDE TO IN­DPLS M0N 11/26 CALL MICHELLE 4054 
WANTID: ONI MINNUOTA ITATE FLAG TO UBI FOR A PIIDUn'ATIONI CALL 8HIIILIY AT 2»11111 llal'· ftiNIMI14PMI PLIAMIII 
SORIN HALL TALENT SHOW SORIN HALL TALENT SHOW SORIN HALL TALENT SHOW SATURDAY 10:DO-ON FRONT POACH BEFORELSU 
YOUNG LIFE!!! YOUNG LIFE II! REMEM­BER YOUNG LIFE?? INTERESTED IN HELPING A LOCAL GROUP?? CALL CHRISX1074 
~~i;i'N;;d'rid;;'i;;;'2'';;;'i~·~ 
renllf on br1<. Cll Artne or Tarnmy-284­4365 
.......................................................•......... 
Hlllpll Oeeparlllely naed ride to Mln­naapolle for Thank8glvlng Break! Wll lhere llCPINM. Cll Merlhe at 284­5019. 
JOHN JOE HEARN LOVES JOHN JOE HEARN LOVES JOHN JOE HEARN LOVES 
REGINA HALL RAFFLE For naw 18quetbll equipment Wllaon ra­quet Wllaon rennie bell Volt beg Eklalon glove S11lCI v..e $1.00 MCh ticklll or 6 for $5.00 Cll Jenniler 284-40112 or Mary 284-4061 
0.. Sc:hnookuma; Loolclng IOIWMI to Thank8glvlng dinner, bul don't expect me to M1 thelluffing. Love, me 
-EO MORGAN--a..... ol ob­noxloue drumming oulllde your window lhle Saturday morning. -N.D. Pen:uulon Section 
-ED MORGAN---You wil be reoeiving a wak•up call II 8:00a.m. thle Saturday. -N.D. Drum..,.. 
I WANT MY I WANT MY I WANT MY MCO Ill 
Yo Phllantropy: Talk to uellfl lhe big 18 lor you. WATCH OUT! That lake looke mighty Inviting! JS, R&RB. JS. 08, AH, MM, OS, CV, KF, PC, JT, BF 
HEY! IT'S NANCY'S 8-0AYI ROGER 11-iATIIF YOU SEE THIS "KAYDET" ON QUAD YOU KNOW WHAT TO DO. DON'T PARTY TOO HARD NANC, HAVE FUN AND BE READY FOA SATURDAY NIGHT! BE 0000, PRESS ON, SINCERELY AGENT ORANGE. 
DEIIIIOCRA"III 11184 ie behind ue. Come -lheluture of the party. Shawn Colina, a NO ._.m and a Democrllllc candidlltalo rapr.....,lllinoll In the U.S. Houu, wilepaalcat6:301nlhe Little Thelllre, L..aFortuna. 
FIIIDIIAU.Y FIIID IIAU.Y FliED IIIAL.L Y 
FIBHP ALUM: Stop by the 33rd An­niveraery llerbeque Saturday AM, Fllher 
Lawn. 
TICKLE MIKE FOR CHARITY Ill Sterling tomorrow tha Mikly Fan CUI will be hol­ding a ticlde Mike 'the Singing Ood' for Charity Tickle-A-Than. Proceecll to go to your lavorita charity or enotlbiell Eeat8m Kidll. Cll Mikey at 10 IliOn up for the time of your choice. F•th..provided. 
Heppy 22nd Steve "King Kong 8uncie" Plllller. Tudt In lNI TENT POU and 
-your -.........."-"" 
Man. K-.and no_.._..__ 
BETH, YOUR FIRST PERSONALII HOPE IT'S BETTER THAN KL88SI GET PSYCHED FOR SAT! JMO P.S. SHEILA, HOWS YOUR EYE? 
l..oolla, llnooklller-Morwter, Snoolde, Snoofcly, Snoolder,IINigglee • Yell Ooonl Yell Lug! Make.,,. that the deed animal gaca oil your lorehMd or you1 be looking uncoollor the formal! Yllh gal to be loving thla ad! We hope that your &-Dey wil be looking too prime! Happy &-Day Ya'l-S I K 
Common -11 for common paople; 
good -'•for good paople. 811 O.Win 
Phil taugl1t her everything lhe rmow. -IIOd now lha'e pregnant 
Ou......ldflen/ 
People do whal you lnapect, no1 what you expect. 
Dave &:Remember the PII'IOIIIII? Fll In tha 1'1111 for younlllf. Can't uy mucll more lor lk•. -1thare'l nolhlng quite like being with you. Love, Pokle 
ThaLl CUIhal a plane to NY over XMAS brMk (tv 12-20I r1m 1·12) I naed toeplla tix with-Cal Jim 11111111 n you want tha r.tum portion from NY to SB 
RUSS; IF YOU LET ME CALL YOU WAL­TER, OUR LOVE WILL NEVER FALTER WEL· COME TO SUNNY SO. BEND. 1-4­3-2-10.7-3-1-3 
TO 11-iE MEN OF COABY'S WEST ­GREAT PARTY GUYS • UKE IT WAS TOTALLY AWESOME!! MJLIZCHRISUZ SO ... 010 YOU LIKE OUR 11-iEMES?I? 
HEY HEY SHHHI NOVEMBER tilth 1118510:12AM BILL TAKES CONTROL 
Peggy, Have any """"""'*" letely? How'e your peeud<Hir-? (ooh bay­baa!) 00BUCKEYES! -Kelley 
DAVE WIAM A BKIRT. 
...... 



The Observer Weekend Edition, November 22-23, 1985-page 14 
r~ 
Briefs 
continuedfrompage 16 

The ND Wrestling team will travel to St. Louis, Mo. tomorrow to take part in the St. Louis Open tournament. · Tbe Observer 
WVFI Sports, AM-64, will broadcast Friday's ND-St. Joseph's (Ind) basketball game beginning at 7:50p.m. with Pete Pranica and Frank Mastro calling the play-by-play. On Saturday, WVFI will air coverage ofthe ND-I.SU football game beginning with "The Irish Today" at 11:45 a.m .. Pete Pranica and Kelly Brothers will describe the action. · Tbe Observer 
The ND Rowing Club will hold a dock party sunday at 2:30 p.m. at the boathouse. All members should attend. For more information call Stephanie Jordan at 288-5374.-Tbe Observer 
The ND Charity Bowl to raise money for injured student Kevin Hurley will take place Sunday at 1 p.m. in Notre Dame Stadium. An all-star team ofND women flag football players will play an all-star team ofSMC players at 1 p.m., followed by the men's inter­hall football championships. Cost of the event is U, and students may purchase tickets at 12:30 p.m. the day of the game at Gate 14 .. 
Tbe Observer 

The Off-Campus hockey team will p~tice Sunday at 11:15 p.m. at the ACC. All players should attend and bring S3 for ice time. · Tbe Observer 
We're Having a Party-
Saint Mary's basketball team opens '85-'86 season Friday at Kalamazoo 
ByKELLY PORTOLESE 
saintMary's Sports Etlltor 

Will this year's Saint Mary's bas­ketball team have "the right stuJI?" 
Coach Marvin Wood will get his first indication Friday when his Belles open the 1985-86 campaign at Kalamazoo College in Michigan. 
Wood will be looking to improve on last year's disappointing 4-16 showing. 
Once again the Belles will not rely on height to carey them through another basketball season, but Wood is optimistic and feels the team has plenty of other talents to fill the gaps. 
"We're improved over last year," says the second-year coach. "But we're not a lot bigger, but we have good overall quickness and better­than-average outside shooting skills. 
"I also like the overall attitude. The players seem to care for each ot­her. You can tell by the way they in· teract." 
Freshman Jennifer Harte is the 
team's tallest player at 5-11. 

"Jennifer was a definite need for 
us for size," says Wood. "She's a player who will walk right in and fit in. She's well received by both the players and coach." 
Harte is joined by eight other freshman who will joined by one senior and one junior. 
The lone senior Beth Kceber, a three-year veteran ofthe squad, who was the team's leading rebounder and second-leading scorer last season. And according to Wood, the forward is one of the team's top defensive players. 
"Beth is important in everything I can think of as fac as basketball is concerned," says Wood. 
Junior point guard Kris Pan­telleria's quickness on the coun will be heavily relied on by the Belles. 
"Kris's quickness will help us of· 
fensively and defensively," says 
Wood. "Most of our defensive plays 
will key off her. She gets off quick on 
the break. 
"A big help to us will be four sop­
homore letter-winners." 
Leading the pack will be Tammye 
Radke, last season's leading scorer 
out ofSaintJoseph, Mich. 
Classmate Rachel Bir was a 
frontline reserve last year but plays 
like a veteran this year. 

Loretta Raycroft's aggressiveness 
has earned her the nickname "The 
Bruiser." She was used in a support· 
ing role last year and is challenging 
to be a front-line contributor this 
year. 

Center-forward Stephanie Duke is much improved over last year. The Virginia Beach, Va., native's quick­ness and shooting ability should aid the Belles offensively. 
Sophomore newcomer Tcish Hug should also aid the Belles with her ballhandling skills and aggressives­
ness. 

Cathy Mansfield, Tracy McClos­
key and Lisa McGrath have all shown 
signs of aggressiveness and accord­
ing to Wood, will help out on the 
front line. 

In the backcourt, Wood will look to freshman Laura Danch, Tricia Hannigan, Kellie O'Brien and Sharon Repik for their quickness, ball han­dling and excellent defensive play. 
Another freshman, Sheila Zentner, is sidelined with a knee injury and should be a strong contributorwhen she can begin practicing. 
A Publishing Party Come meet James O'Rourke Editor of Reflections In The Dome  
8-10 pDI, Nov.22, In the Libra.,AadltoriaDI  
Take a bit ofNotre Dame history home with you when you leave campus AvaUable in the bookstore From Juniper Press  

Fly Ham• ta N•w Yark with Th• Lanr=-l•land Club 
Leaves South Bend Airport December 21 at 12:40 am (a little afta midnight ya's dummies) Return flight leaves N.Y.L.G.A. 
Reservations: 
$·~2~0~.oo~~~t'ii.IU~~~iM~-I.YI~MU ,...C._a....IIJ.~.2w44~8:.fo...r.;.~d.;..~etails to Rm. 33 Pangborn HaD Deposit required by Dec. 2 



------~-----------------­
The Observer Weekend Edition, November 22-23, 1985 -page 15 

Junior keeps starting QB spot 
Beuerlein leads 'salvage operation' 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN 
Sports Writer 
Obviously, this isn't the type of season that the Notre Dame football team wanted to have. With a bowl bid pretty much out of the picture, there isn't much left to salvage, ex· cept pride. Junior quarterback Steve Beuerlein will play a large part in this salvage operation. 
"We planned to do a lot better this season," says Beuerlein. "I'm not surprised (with the way the season has gone) since we've failed to ex­ecute. We can't be happy with what we've done. But, we've got two games left to get back some respect. Maybe we can go to a bowl game that doesn't mean anything and give the seniors something to remem· ber." 
Beuerlein, a native of FuUerton, Calif., carries some of the respon· sibility for giving the Irish seniors something to look back on. 
"My personal feelings are that they're cheated," Beuerleln says. "They're all great guys and deserve to go out with a lot more. I per­
The ohoic..VcT/H,U.nt;o H.rlrr sonally wonder what I could have 

junior quarterback Steve Beuerlein, like the rest of the Notre done differently, and a lot of the un­/Jame football team, bas had a tough season. But Beuerletn is derclassmen feel the same way." hopeful that Notre Dam"e can salr,age its season by winning its last This season has been different 

statistically from Beuerlcin's first two as the Irish quarterback. On the season he has completed 89 of 178 passes (an even.500 percentage) for 1,145 yards, three touchdowns and 1 0 interceptions. Coming into this .season, he ranked as Notre Dame's all-time leading completion 
percentage leader with .'5 70 mark. 
Part of the reason for his sub-par performance this year may be an in­jury to his shoulder suffered last year against Miami which caused him to miss spring practice. Beuerleln, though, doesn't necessarily agree with this. 
"It's hard to pinpoint the injury as the source of the problem," he ex­plains. "At the beginning of the season it affected me some. I felt a 100 percent at the time. It really wasn't in our first three games, but every week it got stronger. 
"It's not an excuse for why my percentage is down or missed receivers." 
The shoulder was reinjured in the Irish win over USC which led to yet another question about the quarter­back situation. Beuerlein started the next game against Navy, but Terry Andrysiak replaced him after three series. From then on, people have questioned who the starting quar· terback would be, especially after 
Andrysiak: performed well. In the 
lockerroom after the Navy game 
Andrysiak said he was dissapointed 
that he was still in a supporting role. 
"I can understand his reaction," 

Beuerlein says. "He's hungry to get 
his chance. He did a great job and 
deserved a chance. 
"After thinking about it Saturday 

night and Sunday morning, I felt 
deep inside that Terry would be the 
starter. The way things were going I 
thought it probably would happen." 
Beuerlein, though, remains the 

starting quarterback, but that has 
brought about much more adversity 
for him to weather -the continual 
questioning about the status ofHead 
Coach Gerry Faust, the booing he 
received when he returned in the 
Navy game, and an article in the Cin· 
dnnati Enquirer which said some 
players prefered Andrysiak: over 
Beuerlein. Through it all, Beuerlein 
has kept things in perspective. 
"(The booing) hurt," he says. 

"There's no way to describe it. The 
other players and myself are giving 
100 percent. We're not trying to 
lose. It hurts to come in after being 
booed. It's part of the game, 
though." 
After dealing with questions 

about Faust for the past few years, 
Beuerlein says that now he just 
ignores them. 
"You develop immunity to them," 

he explains. "The freshman are af­
fected, but for guys that have been 
around, it ~oesn't have an effect." 
The story in The Enquirer, Beuer­

lein thinks, has to be taken in con­
text. 
"It was written at a time when I 

obviously wasn't playing well," he 
says. "All the players know what I 
can do. It hurt to read but after think­
ing about it and reading it in context, 
I forgot all about it". 
By its nature, the quarterback 

position draws a lot of attention 
both on and off the field and from 
fans and media alike. 
"That's part ofthe commitment of 

playing quarterback," Beuerlein 
notes. "I knew that coming in. Be­
cause of its visibility, handling the I 
I

ball on every play, you get attention. 
I

"(The members of the media) are out for stories," Beuerlein con­tinues. Without naming anybody, a 
l

lot of them are out Joking for 
negative stuff. If you say 'No com­j 
ment,' they make look like you're 
hiding something." 
Despite the team's performance, 
l 

Beuerlein has accomplished things . that past Notre Dame quarterbacks 
l haven't. His 10 completions against Penn State made him the all-time 
l

leader in pass completions. He Is also the only quarterback since Ralph Gugliemi to beat Southern Cal 
l

in three successive attempts. 
~ 

Gugliemi accomplished the feat in the 19'52 through 19'54 seasons. 
Hockey 
continuedfrom page 20 
Defensive miscues and a 2·1 breakaway enabled Forester winger Steve Steen to post two tallies in the last five minutes of the period. Ken Spencer, who scored Lake Forest's first goal on a power play, and Mike Przybysz assisted on both scores. 
"It was unbelievable," said Smith of the opening stanza. "We looked like Saturday night after the first period. It looked like we had the same club out there and were start· ing all over again." 
Mark Anquillare got the Irish on the board at the I :09 mark of the second when he scooped in McNeill's rebounded shot. McNeill, an offensive standout thus far in the season, made the play ofthe evening when he intercepted a pass at his own blue line. skated the length of the rink and after faking Forester goaltender Gary Willet to his right, backhanded a shot into the net. 
The Observer 
It's Alumni vs. Flanner in interhall title game 
----------------~ 
Weekend Edition, November 22 -2 3, 1985 -page 16 

Sunday at 1 p.m. in the interball football cham­pionship game in Notre Dame Stadium. Mike Keegan previews the game in his story at right. 
AL BROTHERS 

A Religious Community of Men in the... 
HEALTH CARE MINISIKY Committed to Christ... 
Through a life of fraternal love, prayer and service to the sick, poor, dying and unwanted. 
• 
ADMINISTRATION 1 NURSING 1 CLERICAL 1 TECHNICAL 

• 
PASTORAL CARE • X-RAY 1 LABORATORY 1 ENGINEERING & MAINTENANCE I MECHANICAL WORK • PUBLIC RELA­TIONS I PHARMACY • COMMUNITY HEALTH. ETC. 


•••••••• WRITE FOR INFORMATION •••••••• 
Vocation Director, Alexian Brothers 600 Alexian Way, Elk Grove Village, ll 60007 
Name___________________________ 
Address____________________________ 
CitY-----------State·--------Zip•-------­

. "" ..,_ Age Education Tel No 
29 

"A HEALING PRESENCE" : .................................................. HOSPITAL AND HEALTH CENTERS! 
Elk Grove Village, ILL.!Eiizabeth. N.)./St. Louis, Mo./San )o~e. Cai.!Signal Mt., Tenn./Milwaukee. Wise. Brothers working in the Miss1ons. in the PhilippinP,. 
Take Your Holiday Break Early! 
a®, 

special price break, that is, on Macintosh™, the computer that is helping 

students everywhere wofk smarter, quicker and more creatively. The beaut f Macintosh™ is that you don't have to know anything about computers to se one. In fact, you can be creating with Macintosh ™ faster 'than you can arve a turkey or shovel your driveway. 

ontact your campus Macintosh™ location for more information about the 
oliday Bundles available until December 31. And don't wait for Santa 
o bring it....he has enough to carry already! 
~ 1985 Apple Computer,lnc. App/4 a1ld tM Apple logo, are trfJthmarlcs ofApple Computer, Inc. Macintosh. is a tradmrar/c. 'Y(Mclntos.'a Laboratory a1ld is ~,p;"g used with its express permission. 
For More Information •.• Conlact: General Micro LaF•,rlune Student Center 239-7477 
By MICHAEL KEEGAN 
Sports writer 
This Sunday at 1 p.m. in the Notre Dame Stadium it will be decided. A season of dedication and hard work will culminate in one final game. The participants, will battle for the lnterhall football championship. 
Both teams have used muscle and power to literally bull their way to this game. This can be evidenced by Alumni's over powerful Sorin two weeks ago, and by the fact that Flanner's defense has given up less than four points a 
game. 
"Their strength on the line is probably their greatest asset," says Alumni captain Paul Laughlin. "In addition, they have an improved of­fense that we must contain with good team pursuit and line surges." 
"We have probably the most physical lines of any team this year", says Flanner captain Tom Sullivan. "Greg Smith, Jim Fitzgerald, John Haydin, and myselfneed to pass rush well and also block well for the straight forward rush. With conssis­tant line play and improved of­fensive execution, I believe the team is peaking just in time." 
Alumni victory." 
Both captains feel confident that their team will win. 
"The team feels confident," says Laughlin. "They might be a little big­ger, but our balanced offensive at­tack and strong defense give us a good shot at winning. Ifour defense plays as well as it did against Sorin, I feel that our chances rise even hig­her." 
"Even though we suffered through a few early season mistakes, the team as a whole has improved greatly," comments Sullivan. "I think that we can outplay them." 
Lochmandy Leasing & Rental, Inc. 
IINational Car Rental~ 
Weekend and Weekly Specials all year round. Need transportation to get oil campus lor the weekend? check our low rates. Going on o long trip? We hove weekly specials designed lor o student"s budget. 
One Way Rentals Available to over 1000 locations· at low unlimited mileage rates with no drop charges. Excellent way to get home lor vocation at reasonable prices. 
Conveniently Located at the Elkhart Municipal Airport 

We feature GM cars like this Buick Regal. 

URGENT! PILOTS NEEDED 
The Navy has a critical need for Pilots and Flight Officers at this time. Th~ opportunity for acceptance to flight training has never been better. Seats available in F-18, F-14, A-7, A-6 and other high performance tactical aircraft. Previous flight experience NOT required. 
REQUIREMENTS 
-BS or BA minimum -ANY (technical preferred) 
-20-27 years (can apply up to 12 months prior to graduation) 
-Pilots -20/20 uncorrected. normal color vision and depth perception. Flight Officers corrected to 20/20. normal. color vision and depth perception 
-Excellent (involvement in sports activities desired but not required) 
For more information contact 
1-800-382-9404 Mon-Wed, S:30am-2pm 
Or make an appointment in the placement office for the December 4th & 5th Campus Visit. 


The Observer Weekend Edition, November 22-23, 1985-page 17 
Final home game Saturday 
Bennington finishing a tough year 
By KAmLEEN McKERNAN with only two players from each of ler, but beat Loyola to salvage a Sports Writer the upper classes. third-place finish. 
Bennington also expressed con­Although this year may have been Saturday night at 7:30 In the ACC, cern with her own individual difficult, Bennington, who walked­the Irish women's volleyball team season. on to the team her freshman year 
plays Its final home match of the "My play has been very erratic," after playing in high school for the season. For most ofthe players, only Bennington says. "I hurt my ankle Air Academy in Boulder, Colorado, a season is ending. But for Tracy and missed two weeks right in the still appreciated the opportunity to 
Bennington, one of two seniors on middle of the season." play. the team, Friday night will mean the The tough fall troubled the senior "It (Volleyball) teaches you a lot end of her home volleyball career at hitter who was looking forward to of discipline," Bennington explains. Notre Dame. • an outstanding season for the team. "And although disappointments 
And for Bennington, It has been a The Irish record now stands at 19-come, I've really enjoyed it a lot." difficult season to finish with. 11, which is not bad, just not what The Irish play host to Arizona 
"Personally, It's been disappoint­the team had hoped it would be. State Friday night in the ACC for the ing," Bennington admits. "It's a "I was so excited and I wanted so last home match of the season. young team, and I came in with a lot much to win the (North Star) Con-· "I'm excited for it," Bennington 
of high expectations." ference," Bennington says. says. "The game should be really The Irish have carried a roster of In that tournament last weekend, tough, but I'm hoping we can pull four freshman and four sophomores the Irish lost the first match to But-and upset." 

--------------------------------' 
Prices Good Thru 11·23-85 
1-------------------~~~71 
I~ ~~l.t'l·ll 
~~ ~~1: 
I  I  
1"'-­ ---­ I  
.....,.,.  ·-.  -----­s--Z•  I :  
I  

... 1
,.,.,...._.....,,_,...,_....,? Yu I
No
______________________ J 

Rolfs Aquatic Center 
~letor--OIIIy ,~..............,.Nov.:M) 
RecNm!OIWIBwtmmlng: 
Dllily-8:00a.m.-4:00p.m. 6:30p.m.-10:30 p.m. Weekendl· 1;00 p.m.-10:30 p.m. 
Exceptiona: Recreational Swimming • lolowa: 
Wed~. November rt ·8:00a.m.-4:00p.m. Thonday. November 28 -Cloaed •Thanllagivlng Friday. November 211· Cloaed ·~"II Saturday, November 30-10:QO a.m.· 4:00p.m. 
When using the Rolfs Aquatic Center 
NO atudenla. faculty. and adminlahtive atall with veld 10 llhould lalow lhe lalowlng procedure: 
1. Enter ACC Gate 2. tum left and talow lhe COITidor to Gale 5 Rob Aquatic Center -.nee. (UN Rdl1 Aquatic Center Gate 5 oulllide -.nee"-'ring u,.ol ACC-ev-.) 
l

2. Bring your own ewim eult. (no cut-olfl. or IW"' lhor1a.) 
3. 
Pr-110 at ieeue room lor loc:lter key and tOM!. 

4. 
Shower and proceed to the pool in a calm and ordel1y IMhlon. 


j 

5. Return key •nd 1owe1 to leeue room alter aquatic actlvlti• have .-1. 

r--------------~-------------1 
~~ 
e 
.,....,_...,____
52929 u.s.lll'btb With this coupon receive a
'12 BARREL KEGS 
IUDerBUDLIGHT 3519 · 

Large Pizza for Medium Pizza Price 
OLD MILWAUKEE ~
28ll 

Medium Pizza for Small Pizza Price (Delloery Orders Only) After Spm on Fri.-Sat. Only (Limited Delloery Area)
J&B SCOTCH 
CAUFFA D'ORO 
18 9 ~75L 

L-~!~~~~~~-----~:r~~:e~~~·_!!_J
1~~UTUIOI 
JACK DANIELS
MARTELL V.S. 

r--:~~~:::~::­
99~1L

11~!L 
HUGEl DAZ$ 
CALVERT EXTRA 

10~!L 9 9 ~5L
HARVEY'S BRISTOL CREAM 
KINGS CELLAR GIN
6 9 ~MIL 
9 9 ~5L 

FOR THE 
NOTRE DAME FIGHTING IRISH vs. THE MIAMI HURRICANES FOOTBALL GAME NOVEMBER 30, 1985 AT THE ORANGE BOWL 
I THE HOUDAYINN FORT LAUDERDALE AIRPORT I CONVENIENTLy LOCATED AT STATE ROAD 84 & 1-95 
• 
Complimentary Airport Shuttle Service 

• 
Welcome Gift & 2 for 1 Drink at Check In 

• 
Two Pools and Tennis Courts 

• Bus Service Available to the Game 

• 
Fanny's Lounge open till4 AM 

• 
Free Drink with Ticket Stub 

• 
25% Discount Dinner Coupon 


FOR RESERVATIONS CALL 305/584-4000, ext. 500 
* plus 7% tax, 1-4 persons per room ,_,.._.._....,_...--..-..-...-....-.~...
-----------------------' 



The Observer WeekendEdition,November22-23,1985-page 18 

...­
The Oi.ener/H111aallacRr 

Irish sophomore cenfer Tom Mooney goes for tbe loose puck in last night's Notre Da]7ie-Lake Forest game at tbe.ACC. Mooney as­sisted on Brent Chapman's goal which gave tbe Irish a 4-4 tie with the Foresters. Dennis Corrigan bas details oftbegame on page 20. 
Complete and total madness returns this weekend in the guise of 
Marc Ramirez 


Santa Claus is comingto town 
(Do hi• a favor and glvebt.ataal) 
~~· 1M· HAWAI~
,..._

"~ ~ sun tonnrg salol 
J.M.S. PLAZA 

latro Pkg. Spec. 4609 Grape Road Mishawaka
$21.95 

Make ksnamr
.............. 
...... rle 
CAR RENrAL 
Snappy Car Rental offers you Unlimited Miles Low Daily Rental Rates 
·-­
............ 
INDIANA
""'..........t.
""'.......... . 


NatlonwJ4e Reservations 1-100-321-7159 
$26.95-29.95 

Lincoln Town Cars Chrysler Fifth Avenues South Bend 
Ford LTD's/Tempos Chevy Citations 
(219)277-6600 
lortWayne (219)436.6666 
lndianapoUs (317)845-9100 
Indianapolis (317)247-0333 

Ticket office invests weeks of work coordinating distribution process 
(Editor's note: The Obseroer con­tinues tts four-part series on the various offices within tbe Notre Dame athletic department. Today part three focuses on tbe ticket office.) 
ByMAR1Y STRASEN 
Sports Writer 

Before students stand in line and complain about the hassles ofawait­ing football and basketball tickets, they should have the opportunity to wear the shoes of Notre Dame Ticket Manager Mike Bobinski for a day. 
Bobinski and company spend days, weeks and months preparing for games which last only a few hours. But the process is worth the pain for fans who anxiously await the Notre Dame football and basket­ball seasons. 
"We handle tickets for all athletic events, concerts and family show," Bobinksi explains. "But football and basketball are our two biggest un· denak.ings -no question about it. Football is by far the biggest." 
Calling the process ofdistributing football and basketball tickets "big" is like calling 304-pound football sensation William Perry a little heavy. There is much more to this business than meets the eye. 
Bobinski and his 12 assistants (ranging from equipment people to secretaries) begin in late March or early April getting ready for the foot­ball season the following fall. Files are pulled out for alumni, staff, stu­dents, and season ticket holders in an effort to update information and prepare for ticket distribution. This is the first step in a process that will take eight to nine months to com­plete. 
"The biggest part of the undertak­ing is the alumni sale," says Bobinski, a 1979 graduate and former baseball pitcher for the Irish. "We go out to all alumni who have contributed certain minimum levels and offer 
Go Irish-BeatTigers! 
m~e <ltolonial Jlancake Jlnuse ' 
$1.00OFF.::::hAd~ 
OUR SPECIALTY 
Ll•lt 1

OVEN-BAKED per person APPL£ PANCAKES 
lJ.S. 31 North m Roseland IA(rm.s from the Holida,· Inn) 272-7433 
O,.n 7dayS 8 WHk lit 6:00 11m 
Announces:  
Silkscreening &Sporting Goods  


From Thanksgiving till Christmlls ••• 
151DISCOUNT 
allND a1td SMCstudents, faculty & 
"Aer...lr..ICI••'• C.l..r" 11·1' s........s.... 
....s-s 
them applications to purchase games on an individual basis, but there's no guarantee." 
This leads to the next phase in ticket distribution. Bobinski calls it "the infamous alumni lottery." 
"We distribute about 30,000 ap­plications for both home and away games, and we'll almost always end up with more applicants than seats available." 
Because students, staff, ad­ministration, season ticket holders and opposing schools are guaranteed tickets for home games, alumni receive the remaining seats via a lottery, which is designed to make sure that no one is shut out of all games, and that no one wins tick­ets for each game either. Bobinski describes the ticket scramble as 

distribution and sale which is started in the summer months, and carries right through the season. While the alumni enjoy the benefits of the lot­tery during football season (with nearly half ofstadium capacity), bas­ketball season is a different story. 
"Alumni have no chance for bas· ketball tickets except a few local ones who own season tickets," ex­plains Bobinski. "Half of the arena consists of season ticket holders, about 40 percent are students, and the remaining 10 percentgoes to ad­ministration, the team, and the like." 
Bobinski received an added surprise in handling basketball tick­ets for the upcoming season -a surplus ofstudents wanting to watch the Irish in their attempt to follow up last year's NCAA Tournament ap­pearance. Season ticket holders had to be turned away and there were still not enough seats available to ac­comodate some 200 freshmen. 
Bobinski's job definitely requires the ability to say "no." In a business such as his, a person can count on being contacted by a number of "friends" looking for tickets. 
"The trick is to say 'no' but make people think you are saying 'yes,' " he says. "You try and sympathize with them but it's usually a situation that I can't do anything about. My responsibilities are to alumni, stu­dents, faculty and staff. General re­quests fall way down on the priority scale." 
Bobinski, who was a financial analyst for Walt Disney World in Or­lando, Fla. before coming to Notre Dame in April of 1984, is also active on the finance scene at the athletic department. He works on financial reports for all football and basketball games and assists Joe O'Brien in some ofthe functions ofthe business office. 
"A lot of my job is public rela­tions," notes Bobinski. "When people who are interested in ath­letics make a phone call they usually end upwith me. I have to know how to deal with them and, hopefully, I can solve their problems. 
"Our ticket office is unique," he continues. "We have been in the for· tunate position of not having to actively market our product. Other schools have fancy brochures promoting their schools and their teams, but we don't need to generate any more interest than there already is." 
Bobinski says that the office is 
looking to become completely 
automated as soon as funds become 
available and approval is received, in 
an attempt to "put us on a par with 
other ticket offices." 

If the efforts of the Notre Dame ticket office fall shon of"par" at the present time, Irish supponers can only look forward to the upcoming years. 
T0 day_________________ • 
w_ee_k_e_n_d_E_d_i_tl-·o_n_,_N_o_v_e_m_b_e_r_2_2_-_2_3_._1_9_s_·s__p_a_g_e_1_9 
Bloom County 
Yll KNOW. I CAN'r S€&M ro ~HAK£ me f€£UN& 1HIIT CHI/Rl£6 ANP PI 1/IIE .JI/~T TfXJ-1lJO 
Zeto 
111€ WIIY711€Y WII/..K, TAlK...PKE~S... SIT... 
1Hf!Y'I?€ JfiST 

liiiXftl wt.orm.Y... 
wo... mo 

rr'S VA<W€... 1//JSTT?IIC r•. 
SOtTe'THING. 

I CAN'T M MY fi/Uf{ 
vii5T 1lJO...wo... 
ON IT... 
... Will~. 'THIIT'~\ fT. 
Kevin Walsh 


Campus . 
FRIDAY, NOV. 22 

•3:30 
P.M. • 6:30 P.M. · Block Party, ACC, Sponsored by Senior Class 

•6:30 
P.M. Lecture, "Government: Why Stu­dents Should be Involved", Shawn Collins Uttle Theater, Lafortune 

•7:00 
P.M. · Pep Rally, Stepan Center 

•7:00 
P.M. · Egyptian FUm Series, "Torture, Thy Name is Woman", Zakaryia Abaid, com· mentary, ETS Theater, CCE, Sponsored by Mediterranean/Middle East Concentration in Anthropology 

•7:30 
P.M.· 10:00 P.M.· Dance, Logan Center, Sponsored by Council for the Retarded 

•8:00 
P.M. · Basketball, Notre Dame vs. St. Joseph's (Indiana), ACC 

•7:30 
P.M. and 9:30P.M. ·Friday Night FUm Series, "First Name: Carmen", Annenberg Auditorium 

•8:00 
P.M. • Concert. Notre Dame Chapel Choir, Sacred Heart Church, Sponsored by Department of Music 

•8:00 
P.M. · llluslonlat, Bob Garner, Was­hington Hall 

•9:30 
P.M. and 11:00 P.M.· Movie, "An Officer and a Gentleman", Carroll Hall, Saint Mary's, Sponsored by Saint Mary's Student Govern­ment, n.oo 


Berke Breathed 



' 



The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Peduncle 5 Toy pistol 
ammo 
9 Burning 14 Reach 15 Touched ground 16 Fauna's 
counterpart 17 Inter­18 1492 ship 19 Actress Brice 20 Make an 
unalterable 
decision 23 Eng. architect 24 Native metal 25 Stamen part 28 Astringent 30 Sum: abbr. 33 Traitorous 
Russian 34 Entity 35 Arrow polson 36 Get one going 39 A Gardner 40 Actor's plum 41 Cozy abodes ICl 1965 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 11/22/85
All Rights Reserved

42 The sun 43 Being: Lat. Thursday's Solution 
44 Hairy 6 ETwasone 45 Hit show sign 7 Kegler's 46 Drug plant targets 47 Get Into 8 Try 
unexpected 9 Declare 
trouble 10 Forest 55 Shun clearing 56 Cast a ballot 11 Protracted 57 To shelter 12 Fr.dept. 58 Eng. novelist 13 Methods 59 Baltic 21 Mountain nymph 
tributary 22 Course 60 Muse number 25 Ecclesiastics 61 Titled women 26 Medical prefix 62 All-27 Sing vibrato 
(attentlva) 28 Old-womanish 63 N. M. resort 29 Florence's money DOWN 30 So·­
11/22185

1 Strikebreaker 31 Encounters 2 Fragrant 32 Succinct 
balsam 34 Flying saucers 43 Eats away 49 Gad 3 Arabian prince 35 Not refined 44 Tool box Item 50 Orgy cry 4 Ad Interim 37 Pyromaniac's 45 Devious 51 Bubbly drink 5 One using a crime 46 Subsequ~~tnt 52 Essayist 
pressure 38 AFL·CIO for 47 Scop 53 Gambling city cooker one 46 Eyepart 54 Understands 

Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Roast Top Round ofBeef Sausage Jambalaya Beer Batter Fried Perch 
TV Tonight 

8:00P.M.  16  Knight Rider  
:z:z  The Twilight ZOne  
:Z8  American Bandstand's  33  1/3  
Celebration  

34 Washington Week In Review 8:30P.M. 34 Wall Street Week 
~ Father Michael Manning 9:00P.M. 16 Misfits ofScience 
:z:z Dallas 

34 Great Performances: Sylvia Fi~ 
Kaye's Musical Comedy Tonlgh 
down there." 
SATURDAY, NOV. 23 
•12:20 
P.M. · Football, Notre Dame vs. Louisiana State , 

•7:00 
P.M. · Dance Concert. "Works in Progress", Regina Hall Dance Studio, Sponsored by Abiogenesis Dance Collective, n.oo 

•7:30 
P.M. · Volleyball, Notre Dame vs. Arizona State, ACC 

•8:00 
P.M. · Pianist, Phil Aaberg, Washington Hall, Sponsored by Around the Corner Club 

•9:30 
P.M. and 11:00 P.M.· Movie, "An Officer and a Gentleman", Carroll Hall, Saint Mary's, Sponsored by Saint Mary's Student Govern· ment, Sl.OO 

SUNDAY, NOV. 24 

•2:00 
P.M. -Dance Concert. "Works in Progress", Regina Hall Dance Studio, Sponsored by Abiogenesis Dance Collective, Sl.OO 

•4:00 
P.M. -Concert. Notre Dame Chamber Orchestra, Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by Department of Music 


Saint Mary's Grilled Reuben Fish and Chips Frittata Stuffed Green Peppers 
~  LescaAllve  
10:00P.M.  16  Miami Vice  
:z:z  Falcon Crest  
~  Jimmy Swagart Weekly  
10:30P.M.  34  Diva In Concert  
ll:OOP.M.  16  N~ntcrl6  
:zz  2~ Eycwltncaa News  
:Z8  WSJV Ncwwwatch 28  
34  Monty Python  
~  Prai8c the Lord  

~···Jiiif~iniillfini;di~j;::;·····················································::·····························1 
·~ .
! -Summer Job Applications are due in the Alumni Office, Room 201 ~i 
!...................~.......................~~~~~~~~~-~~:.~~~:::....................................~ 
... 


• 
Weekend Edition, November 22-23, 1985-page 20 
St. Joseph's visits ACC tonight to start season 
Irish tie Foresters·, 4-4 
•

The end of a tough four seasons -again 
r------------~-------------------------------,
I ,.,.._=Extra-, SUB'SCRJBE NQWf I
r I -~=::=. • I 
: I ,_..,..._ ....._~,, Ih Obs . I
i I = -= -= ~ e-_ -~-et:\!er-=
1 1
1 It Only Makes Sense that a newspaper published by 1 
1 students is the best source of sports and news at Notre Dame. 1 1 Join the more than 12,000 readers who keep up to date on Notre Dame and the 1I Fightin' Irish through The Observer. We go beyond any other newspaper to give you 1I a comprehensive picture of the Notre Dame community. I 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 1
I I
and mail to: P.O. Box 0 NameI Notre Dame, IN 46556 
I _ D Enclosed is $2~.50 for the remainder Address I 1 ~~ · of the academic year. City __ ---~ -~-__ State Zip -·· I 
'-·~-----------------------------------------~ 
ByJEFF BLUMB 
Sports Edt tor 
St. joseph's visits the ACC Friday at 8 p.m. for a game with the Notre Dame basketball team. But don't confuse this St. joseph'swith the one located in Philadelphia, the one known for its basketball prowess. 
No, this is St. joseph's of Indiana, as in Rensselaer, a town ofjust under 5,000 located in northwest Indiana's jasper County. The Pumas aren't a member of Philly's Big 5 · instead, they play in the lesser-known Great Lakes Valley Conference, and the school's enrollment numbers only somewhere around 1,000 students. 
Head Coach Dr. William Hogan, in 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN 
Sports Writer 
Brent Chapman's power-play goal at 12:19 of the third period enabled the Notre Dame hockey team to salvage a 4-4 overtime tie with the Foresters of Lake Forest College last night. 
With the tie, the Irish record now stands at 3·7·1. The Foresters are 0· 
4-1. 
The Irish appeared to have won 
1nc l.Jblen'er/Hanna Hacker 
Irish sophomore potnt guard David Rivers, opens Its regular season Friday night. jeff Blumb shown here in Wednesday night's exhibition game previews tonight's Irish-St. joseph's matcbup at against tbe Smelt Oltmpija team of Yugoslavia, right. will be In tbe starting lineup wben Notre Dame 
the game at the 3: 15 mark of the I 0­minute sudden-death period when Mike McNeill put in a slapshot from the left point. The goal was dis· saliowed by the referees who called 
his second year at St. joseph's, returns seven lettermen from a squad that finished 16-12 last season. The Pumas, like the Irish, will be playing their first game ofthe 1985-86 season tonight. 
The Irish figure to dominate both the rebounding and scoring columns in this contest, mainly be· cause St. joseph's lists no players tal­ler than 6-7. In fact, the Pumas' front line measures out at an average of just over 6-5. 
Mark Wingard, a 6-5 senior, starts at center, while juniors john Stitz and Stan Kappers, 6-4 and 6-7 respectively, start at the forward 
see OPENER, page 13 

Irish center Tom Mooney for being in the crease. The call left Notre Dame head coach Lefty Smith shaking his head. 
"It looked to me like Mooney was being pushed into the crease and held there," said Smith. "It's one of those calls that if he's being held, it shouldn't have been blown. I really can't comment more until I see the replay." 
The Irish started last night's game where they left off after last Satur· day's 10-3 loss to St. Thomas ­poorly. When the first period ended, the Irish were staring at a 3·0 deficit. 
see HOCKEY, page 15 

Ayear ago, Observer sports editor Mike Sullivan wrote a column with the headline, "The end of a tough four seasons," which brought to mind ali the frustration the t:lass of '85 had encountered with the football team. That class had been witness to years one through four of Gerry Faust's tenure as Irish coach. 
Saturday, seniors will witness their last home game as part of the student body. The Class of'86 also has faced its shareoffrustration with the football team, and the headline on this column could well be the same as the one used last year. 
Bearing witness to years two through five of the Faust era has tested the mettle ofeven the most ardent ofIrish fans. There have been great moments and there have been times when it seemed that nothing could go right for "our" team. 
And now it is almost over. 

Whether that is good or bad depends on the feelings of each individual senior. Most, however, would deem it bad. The time has seemed to fly by all too quickly. Only yester· day wer.e we in sections 33 and 34, and now today we sit as the privileged ones in sections 28 and 29. 
Today's freshmen, remember this year well. It won't be long and you, too, will be in the senior section, a section where everythingwith two legs is not passed up andwhere the rowdiness level is slightly lower. 
Most seniors probably could recite the events of Sept. 18, 1982, in vivid detail, when many caught their first "real" glimpse of Notre Dame football under the auspices ofMusco's artificial lighting. It all started out so well, too. A 

Jeff Blumb 
Sports Editor 

23·17 win over Michigan sent the campus into an uproar after hearing chants of"Michigan Dead" all week. 
Three more wins followed until Arizona abruptly ended the dream right before our eyes by kicking a field goal with no time left on the clock. Only weeks later, the enthusiasm would peak, when the Irish shot down NO. 1 Pitt. Oh, the celebration which followed , Again, hopes were to come crashing down, though, as both the final three games and any chance of a bowl bid were lost. 
In the year to follow, there would be the 52·6 thrashing of Purdue at West Lafayette, the embarrassment of being shut out by Miami on national TV, the first ofthree straight wins over USC and the second offour straight losses to Air Force. Through it all, we salvaged a bid to the Liberty Bowl, where we showed those Catholic upstarts from Boston just who was king. 
Then came the Hoosier Dome, and everyone remem­bers what an experience that three-hour trek by bus was. The game wasn't much better, either, but brighter days 
would come the followmg week at Michigan State, when 
the Irish roared back from a 17·0 halftime deficit to win 
going away, 24-20. 
To follow were three straight rainy weekends at Notre Dame Stadium, and three straight losses. What a downer that was, as the Irish dropped to 3-4 and post-season hopes appeared to vanish. But, again, Faust and Co. fooled us. just when we figured on a bid to the Toilet Bowl, they surged back to win the lastfour regular season games and go to the Aloha Bowl. 
Ah, and then came senior year. All the optimism was there just as it had been the previous three years. All the parts seemed to be in place. 
Only the wins didn't come quite the way we wanted 
them to. The Michigan game was bad enough, the Purdue 
game was even worse and the fourth straight loss to Air 
Force was the absolute worst. Then came the big tur· 
naround, the "second season," which ended in the same 
harsh manner which characterizes the last four years of 
being a Notre Dame football fan. 
Now it looks like Gerry Faust may be leaving the Univer­sity even before us. Five years ago, he was the ideal Notre Dame coach. Today, he is the ideal dumpinggroundfor the frustrations many seniors feel. Right or wrong, that's the way it is. 
No one can change what has happened over the last four years. All we can do is hold on to it for all it's worth. And, frustration aside, that's a lot. 








