~ --~---~--------------------------------------~ 

VOL XX, NO. 61 
·u.s., Israel agreement attained in spy incident 
JERUSALEM Prime Minister 
Shimon Peres said yesterday that his 
government's apology to Was· 
hington ended the threat to rela· 
tions caused by the arrest of a U.S. 
Navy analyst accused of spying for 
Israel. 
Peres told a closed meeting with visiting American Jewish leaders that he coordinated the apology in advance with Secretary of State George P. Shultz during a lengthy telephone conversation Sunday morning, Israeli officials said. 
They said the prime minister reported that he and Shultz "reached complete agreement and understanding" about the case of Jonathan J. Pollard, 31, a civilian U.S. Navy counter-intelligence expert ar­rested Nov. 21 and charged with sel­ling secret documents to Israel. 
Pollard's wife, Anne Henderson-Pollard, 25, was arrested the day after he was, accused of un­authorized possession of national defense documents. 
"The matter was entirely cleared up," Peres was quoted as saying by Richard Cohen, a spokesman for the HO-member Conference of Presi· dents of Major American Jewish Or· ganizations, which is on a fact-finding tour of Israel. 
Uri Savir, spokesman for Peres, quoted the prime minister as telling the breakfast meeting that "in the last 24 hours we have clarified many misunderstandings between us." 
Cohen said Peres called the espionage case "a test ofthe strength of relations with the United States which we have passed." 
Peres told reporters after the meeting that the Pollard case was an isolated incident of"limited and pas· · sing importance" to U.S.-~srael rela· tions. 
Israel radio said the government may let U.S. Justice Department offi· cials question three Israelis suspected ofinvolvement, including Rafael Eytan, who has been iden· tified in U.S. news reports as chief of a clandestine intelligence unit that employed Pollard. 
Eytan is a former anti-terrorism adviser to two prime ministers and 
see SPY, page 4 

Snowball fight -page 3 
Holtz accepts post as football coach, set to start new era 
of the ACC, where he will spend at least the rest of this week tying up loose ends. 
At the press conference announc· 

ing his hiring last week, Holtz 
showed the wit that has been part of 
his repertoire wherever he has gone. 
One of the many questions from reporters was whether or not he had seen the high-powered 1986 Notre Dame schedule before accepting the job. 
"Yes, sir, I did," was the response from Holtz, whose son Skip is a stu· dent at Notre Dame. "Unfortunately, I might have been looking at the bas­ketball schedule." 
Then Holtz quickly ticked offnext year's schedule in order. "I think that's right," he said when finished. At that point he turned to Athletic Director Gene Corrigan and added, "unless you've upgraded it since I looked." 
After being assured that no such upgrading had taken place, Holtz addressed the issue of the pressures which the Notre Dame coach faces. 
"I attended one game here," he said. "I noticed that the fans are unarmed. 
see HOLTZ, page 4 

Coaching selection determined in 24 hours 
The foUowing is the timetable that led to Notre Dame's hiring of Lou Holtz as its 25th head football coach: 
Tuesday 
10:45 a.m.-Gerry Faust informs Athletic Director Gene Corrigan that he had decided to step down after five years as head football coach at Notre Dame. 
11 a.m. · At his weekly press conference, Faust stuns the media by announcing his decision to resign. 
11:30 a.m. · While the press conference continues, Corrigan meets with Father Edmund Joyce, chairman of the faculty board in control of athletics, to discuss the situation. 
4 p.m. · Corrigan calls Paul Giel, athletic director at the University of Minnesota, and receives permis· sion to talk with Holtz. He then calls Holtz and the two talk for near_ly an hour "about some ofthe things the job entails." 

S p.m. · Immediately following his conversation with Corrigan, Holtz meets with Kenneth H. Kel· ler, president of the University of Minnesota, to discuss his plans. 
8 p.m. ·At a second press con· ference, Faust discusses the reasons for his decision, while Cor­rigan answers questions about the ;tdministration's plans for naming a successor. Holtz' name comes up several times in the conference, but Corrigan refuses to be specific about who the candidates are. He hints, however, that a decision will be forthcoming very soon, point· ing out that, "it has been cus· tomary for Notte Dame, whenever the football job has been open for whatever reason, to move swiftly and to bring in somebody right away so they can get started." 
10:30 p.m.· Corrigan makes the first of several calls to Holtz, and the two "begin to talk very seriously about the job." Corrigan tells Holtz he is Notre Dame's No. 1 choice. 
Midnight . Corrigan and Holtz have their final telephone con­versation of the r..ight. Holtz says he wants the job, but wants to sleep on it before making his final decision. "If I feel the same way tomorrow morning," he tells Cor· rigan, "you've got yourself a coach." 
Wednesday 
8:30 a.m. · Corrigan calls Holtz 
and Holtz accepts the job. In the meantime Joyce and Keller talk over the phone about a release time. They agree "they want to do some things before it is generally known in Minnesota what is going to happen," so they agree on a 2 
p.m. release time in Minnesota. Plans are made for Holtz to be at Notre Dame that afternoon for the official announcement. 
2:30 p.m. · Holtz arrives in South Bend, where he is met at the airport by Corrigan and Associate Athletic Director Roger Valdisseri. 
4 p.m. ·At a press conference in the ACC Monogram Room, Cor· rigan introduces Notte Dame's next head football coach to the lo· cal and national media, saying, "I couldn't be happier that it's Lou Holtz." 
Compilrd by l.arTy Burke 
TIJESDA Y, DECEMBER 3, 1985 

an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

ByJEFF BLUMB 
SportsEdtlor 
It was a very happy day for one man and a very sad day for another man yesterday at the ACC. 
Arriving around noon was new football coach Lou Holtz, set to begin his task of revitalizing the Notre Dame program. Packing up his belongings was former coach Gerry Faust, uncertain about what the future might hold for him. 
The first priority for Holtz will be to assemble his staff. He met early yesterday afternoon as a group with all of Faust's assistants, and later began to speak with each on an in· dividual basis. Determinations on their status will be forthcoming soon, and it shouldn't be long before a full staff.is in place. 
Holtz' record, page 11 
Later in the day, Holtz addressed the team for the first time when he went to a meeting where player awards and next year's captains were being selected. 
Meanwhile, Faust was preparing to move to a vacant office in the rear 

Midwest left paralyzed after blizzard snowfall, bitter cold 
Associated Press 
Much of the upper Midwest was paralyzed yesterday by snow· that drifted up to 6 feet high, dogging highways, stranding hundreds of travelers, and closing schools and universities. A new Pacific storm, meanwhile, slapped the Northwest with wind and wet snow. 
"Does outer Siberia ring a bell?" asked Marty Jenel, director ofa com· munity center turned into a shelter 
at  Sycamore  in  northwestern  II·  
linois.  
"It's been  the earliest  storm  in  

December we've had in years," said Marv Taulbee, a National Weather Service forecaster at the Marquette County Airport in Michigan. 
Ablizzard warning remained in ef­fect yesterday for parts of northern Michigan, where snow piled up nearly 3 feet deep along Lake Super· ior. The storm blew blinding, road­greasing snow into northern Indiana and Ohio, northwestern Pennsyl· vania and western New York state. 
The storm was blamed for at least 
14 deaths in the upper Midwest. 
Ice and wind knocked out power to thousands during the weekend storm that closed out November's legacy ofrecord cold and snow from the Northwest to the Great Lakes. 
Secondary roads and side streets 

------------------------~--~~~ 
remained closed yesterday in parts of South Dakota, Iowa, Minnesota, Wisconsin and Michigan, including all secondary roads in Michigan's Upper Peninsula. Most major high· ways were open although they had ice and packed snow and some were 
open only in one lane. 
Minneapolis officials estimated it would take nearly three days to clear the city's 1,SOO miles of streets and alleys, said Carlo DiNatale of the street maintenance department. The city got 21. I inches, a record from a single storm. 
Record lows were posted yester· day from Texas into Montana and North Dakota, and wind chill factors in parts of Kentucky felt like zero degrees. 
Along Michigan's Lake Superior shore, 34 inches of snow was on the ground at Houghton, with 29 inches at Marqu~tte and 20 at Sault Ste. Marie. 
An estimated SOO people were stranded overnight at Portage near Interstate 94 in central Wisconsin. Another 500 people slept at a school in Tomah, Wis., and Interstate 90 remained closed yesterday between Tomah and La Crosse. Six-foot snowdrifts were reported in parts of Wisconsin. 
About 200 people spent the night at the Minneapolis-St. Paul airport when flights were delayed or can• celled. High wind and blowing snow also delayed and cancelled flights at Chicago's Midway and O'Hare air· ports. 
Wisconsin Power and Light Co. said ice and wind knocked out power in several areas Sunday, but utility spokesman Richard Greffin said it was restored yesterday. As many as 1 3, 700 customers lost power in central and northern II· linois as wind up to S5 mph ripped power lines, utility officials said. 
Wind pushed water ashore along the Great Lakes, forcing some people out of their homes. 
The Obsener Tuesday, December 3, 1985 -page 2 


The Notre Dame Air Force Reserve Officer 
Training Corps program has been awarded an "Outstanding" rating by the Inspector General of the Air Force's Air Training Command. lbis is the first rating ofits kind awarded to any ofthe country's 150 AFROTC units in more than three years. Notre Dame Detachment 225 received the 1982-83 "Right ofLine Award" as the number-one ranked ROTC unit in the Air Force. With its "Outstanding" rating, Det. 225 hopes to claim the top spot once again. "The Observer 
Of Interest 
A presentation on careers in auditing with the Federal Reserye Bank of Chicago will take place tonight at 7 in Room 122 Hayes-Healy. The Arts and Letters Business Society is sponsoring the presentation. -The Observer 
Abrown bagseminarwill be held today from 4 to 6 
p.m. in Room 131 Decio Hall. The featured speaker, Louis W. Good· man, will speak on "The Return of Democracy to South America." The seminar is sponsored by the Kellogg Institute. -The Observer 
Professor John Perry of Stanford University and author of "A Dialogue on Personal Identity and Immortality" will present a lecture entitled "Does Philosophical Analysis Always Fail: Personal Identity as a Case Study" tonight at 8:30 in Room 210 O'Shaughnessy Hall. -The Observer 
A chamber music concertwill be presented by 
the Department ofMusic at the University ofNotre Dame today at 3 
p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium. Works by Beethoven and Mozart will be featured. Admission is free. -The Observer 
The Stanley Kaplan Educational Center will con· duct an open house tonight from 7 to 9 in the faculty dining room on the second floor of the South Dining Hall. The open house will in· form pre-professional students about the MCAT preparation program offered next semester through the Kaplan Center. -The Ob­server 
A blood drive sponsored by Badin, Howard and Pangborn halls will take place today and tomorrow at the Student Health Center from 12:30 to 3:30. -The Observer 
Attention Saint Mary's juniors: The annual 
junior/Alumnae Christmas Tree Trimming will be tonight from 6:30 
to 8 in LeMans Great Hall outside Stapleton Lounge. Refreshments 
will be provided. ·The Observer 
A Commemorative Candlelight Service for 
Rosa Parks will take place on the stepsofthe Administration Building today at 4:15p.m. All are welcome to the service which is sponsored by the Minority Concerns Commission. -The Observer 
·Weather 
Dress as your favorite eskimo today, as there will be variable cloudiness with a chance of snow flurries. High in the low 20s. Increasing cloudiness tonight. Low in the mid teens. A 50 percent chance ofsnow or mixed rain and snow tomorrow. High in the low to mid 30s. ·AP 

--------A..~Y~ --­
---Ihe-0-bse~~er-­
Design Editor...................... Tracy Shindele Dally Quotes........................... Tom Darrow Design Assistant......................... Tom Small Accent Copy Editor.............. Eric Berpmo Layout Staff............................... Rob Luxem Accent Layout ......................... Klaren Webb Typesetters ...................... Suzanne Hammer ND Day Editor...................... Ray Szafranski 
Mary Ellen Harrington SMC Day Editor.................... Priscilla Klarle News Editor ............................. Scott Bearby Ad Design ............................Sharon Emmite 
Copy Editor................................. Tripp Baltz Mary Carol Creadon Sports Copy Editor........... Mike Szymanski Typists ................ ....................... Colleen Foy Viewpoint Copy Editor .......... Sue Dunbar Maura McKeever Viewpoint Layout.......... Melinda Murphy Photographer..................... Hector Moreno 
·111e Obwrver ( l 'SPS ';99 l··HJOO) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacauon period.' The O~rver 1s published by the students oflhe l"niversitr of Notre Dame and ~aint MU}··s College Subscriptiom may be purch~d for J.~O per year ( J20 per :.emester) by wriling The Observer, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 
.. (>';';(> The Ohwrv'!:r 1s a mc-mher of The A.uoclated ~u. All rc-produnion ri¢1t" ouc­rev•ved 

First snow creates changes in appearance, attitude 
I love snow. Snow means Christmas. It means little kids in mittens and snowsuits. It means sledding, skiing and hot choc· 
Amy
olate. Years ago, back in high school, a big snowfall meant 
Stephan
no school. As the freshmen soon will learn, at Notre Dame a big snowfall means you wake up ten minutes Managing Editor earlier and dig your way to class. 
But those who claim snow loses its charm if classes are not cancelled must be tunneling around campus attack with virtually no warning. Only the most agile with their eyes shut. Notre Dame students definitely and alert student will be able to dive through three feet have not outgrown snow. of snow, out of the path of the fast-approaching 
Last night Notre Dame students proved snow is not monster, without losing several key toes and fingers. 
just kid's stuff. In Notre Dame's annual reenactment of What fun. the Civil War, hundreds of normally upright, mature Although it is sometimes hard to believe, terrorizing men and women engaged in a epic battle of snow and the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campus is not the ice. The painfully typical Notre Dame scholar was trans· snowplow's only purpose. These humble machines not 
formed, by a mere foot or two ofsnow, into a a seething only provide hours offun for students, they sometimes snowball-hurler who lived only to break that window clear ~idewalks and parking lots. If you're a first-time on the second floor of Dil· . ~ campus car owner, plan to 
Ion. invest in a snow shovel. 
But symptoms of the ,, Should you be foolish year's first snowfall extend enough to leave your car in a beyond the snowball battle . /' ~ parkfng lot overnight, your 
field. Students from Grace to '"\ automobile will soon be Carroll can be found will· buried by five feet of (wonderful) snow.
fully sliding around campus, Clearing snow costs big
building snowmen and pus­bucks. A large city can spend
hing one another into snowdrifts. Those who just millions of dollars a year clearing the beautiful, slip·
last week did nothing but pery flakes from its streets.
complain about the cold can Despite the plows and salt,
be spotted heading outside winter driving is hazardous
for a game ofsnow football. at best. After a fresh snow­
Overnight, snow trans· IZ·1 fall, the steering wheel
formed a campus darkened seems to develop mind ofits
by weeks ofwet, depressing days into a different world. own and fenders almost seem to bend themselves.
Suddenly one is not tramp­Transportation in general,
ing across campus to anot· her dreary class. One is walking through a picture not just driving, takes on a new aspect when the world postcard -to another dreary class. becomes white. Biking and skateboarding are out ofthe No more wet leaves and muddy puddles -snow question, and even walking becomes less than safe. Al­makes everything appear clean and somehow new. And though it has been said winter is the only time when everyone can walk on water, not all of us handle this
if the snow soon melts into a slushy, dirty quagmire, task as well as the Messiah. Classes soon will be spotted
don't worry. There's plenty offresh snow left in the per· with casts and crutches, victims of an all-too-innocent
petual South Bend cloud cover. snowfall. Many students take advantage of the Midwest weat· Sliding cars and sliding people are not the only her and enjoy skiing, skating and other winter sports. hazards ofsnow. Snow is wet, cold, slippery and almost But the most popular winter sport on campus is one always arrives on the back of a 40 mph wind. The that is unique to Notre Dame · dodge the snowplow. novelty of traipsing across campus through the drifts never lasts longer than a week. Those who gloried in For students who have not yet enjoyed the thrill of snowballs last night will tire ofsnowboots and cold feet this winter athletic challenge, the rules are simple. Like tomorrow. vampires, snowplows generally avoid the daylight. But The wise student, however, will soon learn the true if you hear a strange noise as you round the corner beauty of snow-as viewed through a window. Forget when walking home from an evening ofstudy in a dorm snowmen, snowplows and digging out cars. The best of (cough, cough) the opposite sex, beware. Lurking way to enjoy snow is inside, with a hot chocolate and somewhere in the darkness is the enemy. Schnapp's and something warm to hold onto. Snowplows are not equipped with headlights. They Truly, I love snow. 
-·FreeBaireuts-..... 
Our styled haircuts are only $6.00
tton INking lull-41me atalf. Lodging, ••IOirnonlh. heolth 

and now we'll give you a card that
OO¥ei'CJo-. ~lc lnterelt ~ c:tev.loplng oourte~ on non­

entitles you to every 5th haircut free 
Yiolence and operating National Coalition on Televtllon Vlol.,oe 

Call or walk on over-
national ~eodQuorten. In Cham· palgn ne111 to Unlveral~ Illinois. 
The Varsity Shop 

Open6days
R...arch. writing. oHice work, 
monitoring .,t.rtalnment. One 

Edison Rd. at St Rd 23
Evenings until 7:30 
year commitment. 
277-0057 
.....__
____217-3U.1920 




SENIORS Learn, Grow, Give and Love 
Take a Chance I Holy Cross Associates 
A chance ofa lifetime to be involved in Christian service and community living. 
Avondale, Arizona Colorado Springs, Colorado Hayward, California Portland, Oregon 
APPLICATION DEADLINE-JANUARY 31. 

The Observer Tuesday, December 3, 1985-page 3 

El Salvador situation unimproved five years after missionary murders 
By MARILYN BENCHIK 
StaffReporter 
December 2, 1980 marks the date when jean Donovan and three American nuns were unjustly killed at the hands of Salvadoran rebels. Ana Carrigan recalled t!;!is tragedy in her lecture concerning El Salvador last night at the Center for Social Concerns. 
"Things have changed in El Sal­vador, but they haven't necessarily changed for the better," Carrigan said at the beginning of her talk. She then described the conditions in El Salvador just prior to the slayings of the American missionaries. 
"The week prior to the slayings, on Thanksgiving Day, six ofthe most prominent rebel leaders were beaten and murdered in broad daylight. Archbishop Romero was killed at his own altar nine months before the Dec. 2 slaughter. This was the first time in 400 years a religious leader had been stayed at his own al­tar. This presents a powerful historic image," Carrigan said. 
"We have allowed El Salvador to 
become the lost child with 
Nicaraugua. We can't allow that to 
happen," Carrigan added. She provided statistics to demonstrate that although El Salvador may not be receiving the press coverage that it did five years ago, the problems are still as serious. She said the condi­tions are even worse in some areas. 
"Five years ago there were at most 20,000 refugees and 10,000 deaths prior to the Donovan slaying. The refugee number has now increased to 1 million, consisting of 20 percent of the population. Fifty-five thousand Salvadorans have been killed in the last five years," Carrigan said. 
Carrigan discussed U.S. aid to El Salvador, which now consists of 55 percent of El Salvador's budget. U.S. policy is to give the equivalent of 5 percent to a country's economy. "Only 15 percent of the half billion goes to development. The remain­ing funds are war-related," Carrigan said. 
The justification for this aid has been that El Salvador sponsored the most sweeping land reform program in South America. This program is currently stagnating. 
"El Salvadoran democracy was the (so-called) success of Central American politics. By whatever stan­dard you use to judge a democracy, El Salvadoran democracy is an illu­sion," Carrigan said. 

Carrigan said that the problems of El Salvador create a challenge for Christians everywhere. "The struggle will be with our generation and with the next generation. Sal­vadorans need our solidarity. This means a great deal. We can help by writing to our senators and congres­smen. Through them action can be taken," she said. 
Carrigan has written, produced and published many books and films concerning the victims of the December killing. Her works in­clude "Salvador Witness," "Roses in December,"and "Choices of the Heart." In most of her works, Car­rigan said she examines the reasons these women remained true to their missionary. 
"Even 'though there were no offi­cial statements of regret and there were no elected officials that were in attendance at the unloading ofthe caskets from the plane, there was a truth that these women stood for. They stood for all of the best tradi­tions that this country has held sacred. This truth overcame the negative reaction that our politicians exhibited," Carrigan said. 
> IKf[etVPlitik<:~tt.il; a~t~t<fed the Toyota nrn,TF,Q Dame schofarship contribution. I'UY~LC.I. an automotive feader in qual-­ity. technology and import sales, prou~ily recognizes the extra effort required to be aleader on and off the field. 
-~-t_~__l_o~__a_M_~_~_s_~_~~_-_u_s_A_._Jn_c_____________________________________ l\llORI::!_______________ 

c0~(6°AsKTOYOTA 
FOR ANYTHING 

Winding up wttb a freshly-packed snowball, tbis student was one ofapproximately 1,000 individuals wbo engaged in tbe tradi­tional Nortb/Soutb Quad snowball fight late last nigbt. Story below. 

Quad battle of snowballs damages hall windows 
By ALEX PELTZER 
StaffReporter 

A peaceful December evening in Zahm Hall was shattered last night by a barrage of snowballs hurled by South Quad residents. The result was the outbreak of what has become Notre Dame's annual civil war. 
"We were just sitting on our 
couch  watching  the  Bears  game  
when  a  snow  ball  came  flying  
through  the window,"  said  Zahm  
resident Brian Padian.  

Students suffered minor injuries including glass cuts as a result of the fight traditionally held after the first snowfall ofthe year. 
From Zahm the South troops ad­vanced to Keenan, where at least five windows were broken, accord­ing to Keenan Rector Brother Bonaventure Sculley. Keenan resi­dents said they suspected Dillon Hall as the attackers. 
Meanwhile, Zahm had gat:1ered a force of their own and began the at­tack on Dillon behind enemy lines. 
South troops returned to their home turf only to find attackers in front of and behind them. Close range combat took place in front of Dillon as both armies grew in size. 
From there the batde see-sawed between quads as both mobs traded snow barrages. Along the way win­dows in Dillon, Almuni, and Cavanaugh were reportedly broken. 
One Dillon resident estimated the success of the South troops as greater than the North's. "I think South broke more windows so far so I guess we're winning," he said. 
At least one rector did not agree with this measuring of success, however. Zahm Rector Father Thomas King, whose hall had at least eight windows broken, was furious with the actions of the attackers. 
"I don't know what hall they're from but I know they're idiots," said King. "Anyone who would throw at lights behind glass windows is idiotic. I think their intent was to harm." Exact numbers of injured students were not available from campus security. 

King said that some action ought to be taken against the offenders. "Expulsion would be too good for these people," he added. 


The <Jbsetwr 

t 
r 
f 
r 
r 

.. 
r 
' Holtz 
,' continuedfrom page 1 
''I'm not looking at Knute Rockne's record, or Frank Leahy's

~ 
record or Ara Parseghian's record. I looked at that and thought it was a

r 
' 
, 
misprint. I don't see how anybody can win that many football games and lose that few. I just want to do the best I can, and I hope Ican add to the tradition ofNotre Dame." 
Holtz is known as a quick-fix ar­tist, bringing rapid change to downtrodden programs he has in­herited. At Minnesota, he took the Gophers to a 6-5 finish and an In­dependence Bowl bid in only his second season at the school. 
In his first season, Minnesota went 4-7 after finishing the two previous years with a combined 4-18 record. 
Incidentally, Holtz will coach the Gophers against Clemson in the Dec. 21 Independence Bowl. Upon getting out of the last three years of his contract at Minnesota on the 
basis of a "Notre Dame clause," Holtz gave assurances to Minnesota officials that he would make himself available for the Clemson game if they so desired. 
Minnesota has since said it would like him to coach the game. 
Still, despite his past successes, Holtz made no promises when he ac­cepted the job at Notre Dame. 
"I'm not a miracle worker. I'm not a genius," he said. "Don't lay any beliefin the fact that we are going to be successful because I'm here. I think the people (at Notre Dame) expect a minor miracle every Satur­day and probably a major one oc­casionally." 
The length of Holtz' Notre Dame contract was not announced, but when asked its duration, the new Irish coach cracked, "Day to day." 
Spy 
continuedfrom page 1 
served as operations director of the 
Massad, Israel's intelligence service. 
Sources identified the other two men as Yosef Yagur and nan·Ravid, Israeli science attaches stationed in the United States who have been He also was asked if there were 
any clauses in this contract which 
would allow him to leave, to which 
he responded, "Other than for sur­
vival, no." 
Holtz' salary was not disclosed, 
but almost assuredly he took a sub­
stantial pay cut from his Minnesota 
salary, which was in the ·noo,ooo 
range. Many observers feel his salary 
at Notre Dame is probably closer to 
S60,000, which is about what Faust 
made. 
Undoubtedly, salary was not all 
that important to Holtz. Forhim, get­
ting the Notre Dame job was some­
thing he had dreamed of ever since 
his days at St. Aloysius grade school, 
a place where the students marched 
out to lunch, recess and dismissal to 
the tune of the Notre Dame Victory 
March. 
It was awful tough to leave Min­nesota, Holtz admitted, but the draw ofNotre Dame was just too much. 
"It was difficult to leave Min­nesota," he said, "but I tell you, it would have been more difficult to say no to Notre Dame. That, I found to be impossible to do. This is a dream of a lifetime and not many people at age 48 get a chance to still chase their dream. 
"I never thought Iwould have this 
opportunity. I mean, I'm 5-10, 152 
pounds, wear glasses, speak with a 
lisp and have a physique that appears 
I've been afflicted with beri-beri and 
scurvy most ofmy life. 
"I ranked 234 in a class of 278 coming out of high school," Holtz continued. "I couldn't get into Notre Dame. I couldn't even get into St. Vincent's of Latrobe ( Pa.). I had to go to a state institution (Kent State) because they had to take you. And here I am as head football coach at Notre Dame. I just couldn't say no." 
And Notre Dame couldn't say no to Lou Holtz. 
called home. 
Israel's statement of apology pledged that the secret intelligence unit would be disbanded and dis­
ciplinary action taken against those responsible for the Pollard affair. It made punishment conditional on a 
finding of wrongdoing by an Israeli investigation now under way. 

Tuesday, December 3, 1985-page 4 
Philippines armed forces leader reinstated after murder aquittal 
MANILA, Philippines -President 

Ferdinand E. Marcos reinstated 
Fabian C. Veras armed forces chief 
yesterday, hours after a court ac­
quitted the general, 24 other sol­
diers and a civilian of assassinating 
opposition leader Benigno Aquino. 
In their 90-page decision, the 
three civilian judges accepted a ver­
sion Marcos gave a day after Aquino 
was killed Aug. 21, 1983, while step­
ping off a commercial airliner that 
brought him home from voluntary 
exile in the United States · that the 
assassin was Rolando Galman. 
Galman, a purported communist, 

was killed by soldiers immediately 
after Aquino was shot. h Ver, an old friend and confidant of 
1fue· president, was on leave of ab­
sence pending the court verdict. 
Marcos signed a law early today 
setting a special presidential elec­
tion for Feb. 7 that may be a contest 
between him and Aquino's widow, 
Corazon. Mrs. Aquino called a news 
conference for later today, and sup-
O'Hare security deficiencies cited 
As8odated Press 
CHICAGO -Undercover inves­tigators were hired as security guards and other workers at O'Hare International Airport without un­dergoing background checks, and they easily boarded airplanes wit· bout being searched, a watchdog group said yesterday. 
"Clearly the travelingpublic is not nearly as safe or secure as the aut­horities would have us believe," said a report issued by the Better Government Association following its four-week investigation. 

-H. KIIPUIN 
EDUCATIONAL CENTER 
TEST PREPARATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 
CORDIALLY INVITES YOU TO ATTEND OUR 
~~MCAT SAMPLE TEST" 
WHEN: WHERE: 

porters expect her to accept the op­
position's nomination. 
The president's foes had 
predicted the acquittal, but there 
had been rumors some defendants 
might be found guilty of negligence, 
a minor offense. 
Mrs. Aquino said the verdict did 
not matter because Marcos was her 
"No. 1 suspect" in the death of her 
husband, who was Marcos' main 
political foe. 
Opposition leader Salvador Laurel 
called the acquittal "madness." 
Roman Catholic Cardinal Jaime L. Sin, the nation's most prominent religious leader, said the verdict "could push our country to the brink ofviolence and despair." 
With its finding, the court rejected a year of investigation by a fact-finding board, which concluded that the killing was a military con­spiracy. 
Small but noisy demonstrations against the verdict occurred outside the courtroom and in a street leading to the presidential palace. 
"The people who provide security at O'Hare are themselves not secure," said J. Terrence Brun­ner, the group's executive director. 
He said aviation authorities responded defensively when told of the findings. 
"When confronted with the hard facts of inadequate security at O'Hare, their response has been to thrust their heads further into the sand," he said. 
But Fred Farrar, a spokesman for the Federal Aviation Administration, said the agency issued new rules last week requiring background checks 
DEC.3~7 PM 
South Dining Hall, Faculty Dining Room Notre Dame Campus 
REFRESHMENTS 
Stanley H. Kaplan Ed. Ctr. 1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 46637 
272-4135 

on new airport workers with access to secure areas. 
In addition to background checks, the citizens' group also recom­mended tightening control over identification badges so a badge does not permit access to all parts of the airport, locking doors leading to runways, and screening employees for weapons and explosives. 
Messages left with officials of the Chicago Department of Aviation, which operates O'Hare, the nation's busiest airport, were not returned. 
Marcos said in a statement that he hoped "calm and reason will settle on this most distressing and tragic case." 
Marcos welcomed Ver with a 
handshake and a salute at the 
presidential palace right after the ac­
quittal, and issued a handwritten or­
der restoring him to his post. The 
president, who has governed the 
Philippines for 20 years, said the 
reinstatement was "for such a period 
as may be decided upon by me and 
by senior officers of the armed 
forces." 

The qualification appeared in­
tended to blunt criticism here and in 
the United States of the return to 
command of a man under whose 
direction the army has been accused 
ofwidespread human rights abuses. 
U.S. officials have demanded reforms in the military to counter a growing communist insurgenc;y. Some American congressmen had urged that Ver not be returned to the top military job. 
For more Information, Call or VIsit us: 
The Observer Tuesday, December 3, 1985-page 5 
No motive found in hammer death 
Nine million heisted 


during Brinks robbery 
Associated Press 
COLOMBES, France An armed gang of about I 0 men kid­napped two Brinks employees from their homes yesterday, forced them to open the com­pany's headquarters and looted an estimated S9.4 million from safes and strong boxes, police said. 
Gang members, armed with rifles and handguns, broke into the employees' homes, tied up members of their families and took the employees to Brinks headquarters in this northwest Paris suburb, police reported. 
Some gunmen remained with the families during the robbery, and police said the robbers com­municated with each other by radio and also monitored police calls. After the robbery was com­pleted, the employees and their families were released. 
Investigators speculated that the first employee seized may not have been able to open the 
Brinks office door so the robbers 
kidnapped a second employee. 
Police said gang members overpowered two guards and two employees at the Brinks headquarters when they entered the office early in the morning. 
The robbers opened strong boxes and safes and took cash and checks, which police es­timated had a value of 72 million francs, the equivalent of S9.4 mil­lion. 
When four other security guards arrived for work at about 5 a.m. they were held at gunpoint while gang members finished looting the office. 
The gang escaped before dawn in a stolen van, leaving the guards, the employees and their families unharmed. 
Neither police nor officials of Brinks would provide further details. 
A Brinks spokesman did say, however, that it was only the second robbery ofthe firm in the last six years. 

Associated Press 
HOBART, Ind.-It had the makings of classic mystery: man found dead in basement, skull smashed and bloodied by 32 hammer blows. Police say it's suicide. Coroner in­sists it's murder. 
But this is no TV plot with a twist ending. It is the true story of a 52­year-old man whose death set off a debate that lingers nearly eight months later. 
The death of James Cooley has 
pitted the cops against a county 
coroner who jokingly compares 
himself to Quincy, 1Vs dogged 
coroner-sleuth. But this case is in­
triguing beyond the dispute. In this 
death, investigators cite strange 
textbook cases as proof that anyth­
ing is possible. 
'It's probably the most bizarre case our department has inves­tigated," said Police Chief Lawrence Juzwicki. 
People from thousands of miles away who read about Cooley con­tacted Hobart police to talk about other unusual deaths. One retired police officer recalled his investiga­tion into an attempted hammer suicide. 
Police thought they were dealing 
with a homicide on April 6, when 
Diane Cooley discovered her hus­
band's body in a basement photo 
darkroom. 
An autopsy showed Cooley's skull 
fractured in two places. Ten of the 
32 blows were severe enough to 
have knocked him senseless, Lake 
County Coroner Daniel Thomas 
concluded. 
But as police pursued their inves­
tigation, it didn't square with mur­
der,Juzwicki said. "The evidence we 
gathered supports the suicide fin­
ding." 
What detectives found was a depressed man battling cancer. What they didn't find was a suspect or motive. No signs of struggle. No forced entry. Nothing missing. They consulted experts, who concluded Cooley probably killed himself. 
Case closed. Suicide. Thomas was outraged. He'd al­ready determined Cooley was killed. 
"It's a homicide, and we're not going to let it go by as a suiCide," he declared. "This case is ludicrous. It's a laughing matter." 
The wounds "were so massive there was no doubt," said Thomas, a surgeon for 21 years and coroner 
since 1983. His office investigated 
I 10 killings last year. Three days 
after Cooley's death, Thomas ruled 
homicide. Cause: severe injuries to 
the brain. 

While Thomas has final word on the death certificate, he isn't willing to let the case die with a difference ofopinion. He repeated his findings to assembled reporters recently. He has asked the county prosecutor and state police to investigate. 
Cooley's family has remained out of the fray. However, his brother, John, said "the entire family, the entire city of Hobart wants the case reopened. We're not satisfied.." 
At the heart ofthe dispute is whet­herJames Cooley was inclined to kill himself and whether he could have hit himself 32 times with a claw hammer -hard enough to fracture his skull twice. 
Sergeant Rod Englert, a homicide detective in the Multnomah County sherifi's office in Portland, Ore., told them ofa man who had run his body through a band saw and a woman who had stepped into a scalding bath, cut her wrists, taken poison and then hit herselfon the head. 
"People have different tolerances of pain," he said. 


ENGINEERING STUDENTS: 
cash in on your hard work before graduation • • • and open the door to a top career in Engineering Management. 
For highly qualified students in Engineering, Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics or hard sciences, the Navy offers the opportunity .to earn over $1000 per month dur­ing your final year in college. For especially qualified persons, this benefit may be available for the final two years of college. 
After graduation, you will receive graduate level training valued at $30,000 and 
begin work as a technical manager with immediate responsibility and authority. 
This is the only program of its kind in the world. 
To qualify you must be between the ages of nineteen and twenty-six, be in good health and meet stringent academic requirements. (Minimum educational re­quirements include at least one year of Calculus and one year of Calculus-based Physics.) You must also have at least a 2.8 C.P.A. overall with a 3.0 in major. 
A NAVY ENGINEERING PROGRAM SPECIALIST will be on campus 
on December 4th & 5th 
Sign up for an interview with your placement office today, or call 1-so0-382-9404,Mon-Wed,8:30am-2pm for more information. 
NAVY ENGINEERING ... IT PAYS TO BE THE BEST. 
3,000 protest 
U.S. plant in Bhopal 

BHOPAL, India -More than 3,000 people waving torches and shouting 
"Down  with  the  killer!"  burned  
about  100 effigies  of  Union  
Carbide's  chairman  last  night  

outside the plant where a leak of deadly gas created the world's worst industrial accident a year ago. 
"Hang Anderson! Hang Ander­son!" survivors of the gas leak screamed as they poured kerosene on the effigies of corporation chair­man Warren Anderson at the gates of the closed pesticide factory. A leak of methyl isocyanite gas there on Dec. 3, 1984, killed more than 2,000 people and injured 300,000. 
Demonstrators cheered, ap­plauded and jumped up and down as the figures burned. Some hit the ef­figies with sticks, or stamped on the smoldering remains. 
The demonstrators, gas victims from the slums around the plant and activists, demanded Union Carbide's expulsion from India, a boycott of products made by U.S. multinational compames, and more help for gas victims. 
Metal barricades and more than 1,000 heavily artOed police around the plant kept protesters out. 
Protest leaders assailed "the killer multinatio~al" in speeches, but no violence or injuries were reported. 
Reinforcements were move<J into this central Indian city of900,000 to prevent violence, and more than 150 people thought to be potential troublemakers were detained beforehand. 
The largest effigy ofAnderson had 13 heads -representing Union Carbide's 12 industrial plants in In­dia and one in Nepal -and held an infant dying of gas poisoning. Mos~ of the 13 plants produce dry-cell batteries. 
Slum children carried straw ef­figies. Protest leaders said 2,500 of the figures would be burned last night and today, one for each victim. 
Officials say they counted only 1,754 bodies after the disaster, but they do not dispute tolls of 2,000 to 2,500. 
----------------------~ 
ANTI-APARTHEID NETWORK FACT OF THE WEEK 
Infant mortality rate for South African blocks Is nearly six times higher than that for whites. Lite expectancy In terms of years Is 2•0, higher tor wt11tes. 




~i~~~_{)__i_ll__t_______________T_u_esd-ay-,D-ece_m_be-r3_,19_8_5-_p_~_e6 
ND divestment would gain influence from group 


"The financial connection may prove to be one of the least expected, yet most effective, sources of pressure on South Africa." -Busi­ness Week 
James C. McEachen guest column 
. Notre Dame should divest, but not im­mediately nor by itself. It will accomplish this by organizing a multi-institutional group with unquestionable economic power, giving the Sullivan Principles time to prove effective or ineffective, and forming a time-phased trade 
embargo plan. The ultimate goal of divest­ment is to bring an end orchange to apartheid. As Chase Manhattan Bank recently demonstrated, divestment can be an effective means of pressure on South Africa ifthe com­pany divesting possesses enough economic influence. Notre Dame by itself does not possess great economic influence over South Africa. However, Notre Dame can gain in­fluence by becoming part ofa larger divesting organization. 
The first step to effective divestment is to form a multi-institutional organization having unquestionable economic power. The or­ganization would be composed of numerous 

colleges and businesses with large financial ties to South Africa. The boycott ofNestle is an example ofa successful coalition ofinvestors. Being an authority in Christian and collegiate aspects, Notre Dame could form a similar coalition to fight apartheid. The representa­tion, though, should be limited to those es­tablishments willing to abide by the Sullivan Principles. The reasons for such an action are to incorporate businesses of ethical standing and to boost the effectiveness of the Sullivan Code's two-year plan. 
The second step to properly divesting Notre Dame's funds is to allow the Sullivan Code's two-year plan time to prove effective or ineffective. Reverend Leon Sullivan, author ofthis "voluntary cose ofcorporate conduct," wants to give the South African government two years to end apartheid. Ifapartheid is not ended, he advocates a total trade embargo and a break in diplomatic relations. At present the code is followed by 155 of the 320 American businesses in South Africa. President Reagan has indicated possible support for making the code mandatory. If such a code were made mandatory, it would provide an effective means of pressure on the South African government. Therefore, it would be in the best interest ofall ifmembers ofNotre Dame's multi-institutional group were required to fol­low the Sullivan codes. Because ofthe uncer­

t 
r 
~­
r 
r 
~ 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 

Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
THAT'S 
MOM, I WANT 
THAT5 

tain effectiveness of these codes, though, Notre Dame should have a "back-up" plan. 
The final step or "back-up" plan to proper divestment is to use the multi-institutional or­ganization to employ a time phased trade em­bargo plan if the Sullivan Principles prove ineffective. The organization will combine its investments to be used against South Africa. It will present South Africa with an ultimatum declaring that unless an equally representative government is institution­alized, the group will divest a certain amount of their investment each month until a com­plete disinvestment is acheived. The ul­timatum will affect South Africa directly because they cannot avoid seeing the conse­quences ahead. It will also affect South Africa indirectly because the world financial com­munity will daily re-assess South Africa's economic position, the lucrativity of their stock in South Africa, and whether the world 
financial community should continue their in­vestments in South Africa. 
Opponents to this plan assume that if American industry pulls out of South Africa, other foreign industries who do not care about apartheid will take their place. In ac­tuality, the present situation is creating a "hassle factor" for business,the hassle of dealing with boycotts and protests in making investment nonlucrative. The basic motive of a business firm is to make a profit. Thus, if a company is not making a profit, it will drop that segment of the business. Barclay's, the largest foreign bank in South Africa, demonstrated this fact by cutting back its loans to the country's private sector. As South African stock profitability decreases, foreign 
countries will most likely not invest if American business divests. 
Further opposition comes from those who believe we should invest rather than divest. They maintain that the apartheid situation will settle itself in time. The Heritage Foundation, one such organization adhering to this prin· ciple, has written a pamphlet on the subject entitled "An Investment Strategy to Un­dermine Apartheid." One finds it hard to believe that this is an effective means against apartheid, though, because the pamphlet is distributed as part of a press package by the South African embassy. Secondly, apartheid in South Africa has been in effect since 1912.·If time is truly going to change this system of injustice, how much longer will it take? All in­dications show that the violence is not decreasing but rather increasing. Therefore, we must institute an effective policy like con­certed divestment to bring an end to this South African turmoil. 
james McEachen is in the Freshman Year of Studies atNotre Dame. 
Protested 'Hail Mary' should not be censored 
YOl170HA~HALF 


omr, 60~,
C&F:TAINLY 
I JUST HOPe 

MONfj'/CAN
VERY 

IIJHAF NO,
A REMARJ<­
OF IT, ~Yr NO, 

8IfT 7HATs MY
ITAUWORKS 
R&AUY
GENEFOU5 

MOM.. NO•.
A8/E IDT7fi<Y 

RNALOFFfR!
NO, I A85a.UTEtY 
anra<YOU.. 
OIAN68
CF'rVlJ,
IN515T! I
PRIZ&, SIR. 

\ PEIJP/,C.
SIR. 
\
\ .re;_ 
I
\
' I 

The film "Hail Mary" has received a lot of attention from the Catholic Church lately. This film, which is a modern day version ofthe Virgin Mary's conception of jesus, complete with nudity and graphic language, has been the target of vigorous protests from the Church. And these protests are understan­dable; the film has been condemned as a blas­phemy by the pope, and it certainly appears to be just that. 
BillWilson the word most mangled 
But recently in Boston, groups of people undertook a lobbying effort to have the film banned from local theatres. While I agree that the film is blasphemous and I certainly do not want to see it, the film should not be banned. Bannning this film is censorship. And censor­ship, in any form or no matter what the reasoning, is something which we cannot af­ford to let happen. 
Even in our free nation, censorship exists. All across the country, books have been banned from schools and libraries. These books are not necessarily bad, just controver­sial. For beginners, there is the "New American Dictionary," "A Farewell to Arms," and that ever-radical "Original Mother Goose." Oh yes, there is one more: the Bible. 
Hard to believe? Believe it. There are many more books that have been banned. The Memorial Ubrary concourse has a sampler of banned books in its showcase across from the library auditorium. You might be surprised to see some of the books which have been banned. 
Without a doubt, some of these books are controversial in their subject matter. And we might want to protect young children from some of these works. And the easiest way to do this is simply to ban them. 
TH&YSAY 


But now we have a problem. Once you ban 
a book, what is to stop you from banning anot­
her? lfwe go simply on the basis that someone 
finds the book objectionable, we should 
simply ban all books, for every book is objec­
tionable to someone. Where do we draw the 
line? What you may find objectionable may 
not be objectionable to me, so why should I 
not have the right to read that material? 
We need to do everything in our powers to 
prevent censorship. Here at Notre Dame we 
have not had any problems ofcensorship. But 
perhaps back home we have. To guarantee 
our freedom of expression, we must make 
sure that it is not restricted in even the smal­
lest way. Even ifwe object to the material, it is 
important that we prevent it from being 
banned. It is similar to the domino effect: start 
one and they all can fall. 
The experts on censorship agree that it works. It makes the world a simpler place to live when someone else does your thinking for you. The experts -Stalin, Hitler, Castro ­are right. But is this what we want? 
The various groups are right to protest against "Hail Mary," but they are wrong in seeking to ban the film. The most effective form of protest is to speak out against the show and list the reasons why it may be objec­tionable. Urge people not to patronize the show. If no one goes to see the show, it will not last long. Yet ifpeople still want to go see it, allow them. Let them make their own judg­ments. 
Remember, censorship, once started, can spread like wildfire. The best way to fight cen­sorship is simply to prevent it. By fighting against censorship -even though we may ob­ject to the material in question -we preserve everyone's precious right to freedom of expression and thought. 
Bill Wilson is a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters at Notre Dame and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Quote of the day 
"GerryFaust leaves, with style and, above all, with clean hands. He failed only as a college football coach. He did not fail as a human being. How many of his lodge brothers can make that statement, honestly?" 
Bob Verdi Chicago Tribune, Nov. 27, 1985 

"ie~P._O_i_n_t______________________________________________Tu_e_s_d_ay_,_o_e_c_em__be_r_3_,_1_9B_s__-__Pa_g_e_7 
Buildings at Notre Dame have much to offer 
.., 
, 
,1 , 
1 

Recently I had some friends visit me for the weekend. During the weeks before they arrived, I thought about everything on campus I wanted to show them. I wanted them to be a part of the Notre Dame I have grown to love and call my home in the past three months. 
Mary Berger 
guest column 
When they arrived Friday night exhausted from the long road trip, we sat around and chatted for awhile before the guys headed off to one of their friend's dorms where they were staying. 
As we walked through campus passing the Fieldhouse Mall, the library, the Administra­tion Building, LaFortune, and gazed down on 


P.O. Box Q 
Pinkett deserves praise for years of devotion 
Dear Editor: 
It is my fifth straight football season under 
the dome, and as a "double domer," I have one 
more season yet to go. But I believe it is ap­
propriate to pause for a moment and congrat­
ulate one outstanding individual. I do not 
hesitate to admit that your character, your 
personality, your devotion to this University 
and the attitude which you display in everyth­
ing you do, has been an inspiration and model 
to many, myself included. This university saw 
you give 200 percent of yourself-on and off 
the field -to her name. For four seasons you 
shook down the thunder and displayed a flaw­
less sense of sportsmanship, drive, talent and 
devotion to this great university. What though 
the odds were great or small, Allen Pinkett, 
you gave it your all. And being only human, 
there inevitably existed those times when we 
still could not win. 
You will leave behind a host of collegiate 
records in your name and the memories of 
four great years at Notre Dame. Everyone else 
will take and keep the excitement and 
memories of many outstanding games. And if 
in the distant future those memories should 

ever fade, I think I will just search for my old 
and worn 20 jersey that I wore to every game 

this last year and the memories will quickly 
return. 
So Salut, Pinkett. I regret never having had 

the opportunity to meet you personally, but I 
hope I will someday. I wish you the best of 
success in your career beyond Notre Dame. 
You have earned the respect and admiration 
of many. Congratulations and good luck. 
Christopher Vargas Notre Dame graduate student 
Student theater group worthy of recognition 

Dear Editor: 
For the past several weeks, I have had the opportunity to work alongside a talented group ofperformers in the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's production of "The Freedom of the City." As it was my introduction to the student 
theater here at Notre Dame, I had not realized the amount oftime and energy that is willingly committed to such a successful production. More significantly, though, Iwas impressed by the creativity, professionalism, and dedication of the individual actors and actresses. Al­though toiling in relative obscurity, they possessed a strongsense ofpride in the quality of their individual and, indeed, the group's the Rock, I told them a bit oftrivia about each place we passed. I did not know the historical facts behind every building, but I knew the personal experiences hidden in various corners ofeach building. 
For instance, I told the tale of my first day here when I almost walked into Farley, ready to plant myself in the room I had acquired after a long wait on the temporary housing list. Then I realized Breen-Phillips was one more building down. Boy, did I feel like a freshman. 
I showed tny friends the dining halls and relayed stories of the food, the food fights, the atmosphere in South Dining Hall, and the music in North. At the library, I told them about the great view from the ·13th floor and the socializing and scoping on second. I showed them the ACC, the stadium, the Rock, and the ROTC Building. (They thought the ROTC Building was a great color.) 
Eventually we came to the Grotto. I had saved the best for last. 
When I visited Notre Dame as a senior in high school, I stopped at the Grotto to ask the Blessed Virgin to help me do my best so I could return to be a part of this community. On my first night here, I again went there to say a prayer of thanks with hopes for a great future here. Since then, I have returned many times for many different reasons. 
The Grotto and every other building, area and feature of this campus are unique and are big parts ofwhat makes Notre Dame the great place it is. There is much history behind each building: who designed it, who paid for it, and who has taught or lived in it. These facts set the precedent for the great tradition at Notre Dame, but what each one ofus experienceson this campus is what continues it and strengthens it. 
performance. These efforts, I can attest, did 
not go unnoticed by the interested observers. 
Upon the conclusion of the performances on Saturday, Nov. 2 3, I had gainedan apprecia­tion and respect for the acco~plishments of the individuals who were integral parts of the show's success. While I know they do not per­form in order to receive the accolades of an admiring audience, their talent is surely worthy of recognition, or at least apprecia­tion. 
For the hundreds of spectators who were fortunate enough to view the play, and indeed, interact with the play, my comments only state the obvious. However, as I was present during the long and taxing prepara­tion period, I have Witnessed, firsthand, the development of a truly professional perfor· mance by a very talented group ofindividuals. 
My hat goes off to director Reginald Bain, the technical and production staffs, and the entire acting company · especially Jack Blakey, Mike Andrews, and Lauren Longua. Thanks for a memorable experience. 
Patrick Collins SorinHall 
Church should pursue changes of Vatican II 
DearEditor: 

To the extent that it implies a mandate, the headline "Church Must Eliminate Its Vatican II 'Reforms'" (Nov.25) is misleading and inac­curate. So are most of Rich Coglianese's state­ments about the Catholic Church. 
Our own national data (Notre Dame Study of Catholic Parish Ufe, 1984) suggest that the majority of parishioners do not object to the variety of changes that have occurred since Vatican II. Some parishioners are uncom­fortable with some of the adaptions to the liturgy, such as women communion ministers 
(17.9 percent), lay communion ministers(l5.3 percent), communion from the cup (15.4 per­cent), sign of peace (U.6 percent) and com· munion in hand ( 10.4 percent). 
Results from last week's New York Times/CBS News Poll concur with ours. They find that four times as many Catholics "felt good" about Vatican II changes as "felt bad." On another issue, 80 percent ofCatholics now feel girls should be allowed to assist at the al· ter, a practice that has been adopted by many American dioceses though not embraced by the Vatican. They also find that 52 percent of both Catholic men and women support the ordination ofwomen, while 63 percent favor letting priests marry. Our figure for' priestly marriage was 58.8 percent. 
Finally, the claim that mass attendance has 
dropped because the Mass is no longer in 
Latin is preposterous. If that were true, Mass 
attendance today would be highest among 
Catholics who never knew the Latin Mass 
(under the age of 25). It is precisely in this 
group where attendance is lowest ( 30 per­
cent attend weekly). As age increases, weekly 
Mass attendance increases. 
Catholics in general are comfortable with 
the changes introduced by Vatican II. Ap· 
parently, three-fourths of our sample (74.7 
percent) agree or strongly agree that the 
Church should follow through more on 
changes and guildlines resulting From Vatican 
II. To urge that the Church do otherwise is dangerously unsophisticated. 
Thomas A. Trozzolo Senior ProjectAssistant ND Study Catholic Parish Life 
Recent column on rape took initiative to write 
DearEditor: 

With respect to the article by Cathy Coffey 
concerning rape on the Notre Dame campus, 
it did not appear to be a personal vendetta. 
The intention of the article was to provide the 
Notre Dame community with the knowledge 
that date rape occurs, though not necessarily 
here, and precautions can be taken. 
Granted, her sources of information were 
not persuasive, and tended to be biased; 
however, I applaud her for the concern and 
initiative in writing the article. 
Mark Moots Keenan Hall 

Article on Vatican II written by closed mind 
DearEditor: 

While Rich Coglianese's article of Nov. 25 
did provoke some reminiscing about the pre­
'60s Church format, his definition ofnear per­
fection exemplifies the scope of 
closed-minded conservatism in the Roman 
Catholic world. 

As I, and Isuspect Coglianese also, was born in the latter halfofthe 1960s, I cannot claim to , have experienced his so-called "glory days." Therefore, I do not have the personal knowledge to judge the desirability ofone set of practices over another. And neither does Coglianese. While I, too, appreciate the beauty of the Latin Mass, experience of this 
has been limited in most parishes. Titerefore I question his involvement with this and his personal understanding ofa Mass said in Latin. 
I also take offense to Coglianese's point about women priests. He states that its un· Every place on campus holds something 
new. How many people have gone to the Snite 
Museum of Art and enjoyed the works of art 
available to us? Who has seen the campus 
radio station or newspaper office or even 
knows where they are? Has anyone gazed at 
the skies on a clear night through the tele­
scope in Nieuwland Hall? 
As students, we sometimes get so wrapped 
up in studying and socializing that we do not 
"stop to smell the roses along the way." Notre 
Dame is a great place and we are all lucky to be 
a part ofit. So, look around you and see what is 
available to you. Four years is a short time and 
it would be a shame to spend it here without 
enjoying as much of.the tradition as you can. 
Mary Berger is in the Freshman Year of Studies at Notre Dame and a regular View­pointcolumnist. 
feasability has been revealed through "sacred scripture tradition." There is no mention in any ofthe Gospels ofChrist forbidding female servers. And, as a feminist, to answer his ques· tion about Christ's commissions, Christ also did not ordain any Negro, Oriental, or Indian to the priesthood. Yet would you ever say that these people do not share in that call? Would you ever exclude them from ordination on the basis ofsuch paltry prejudices? 
It is also stated that Christ set up the Church without women priests for a reason. While Christ founded and guided the beginnings of the Church, as He does today, the daily inner workings of Roman Catholicism were developed by the Apostles and their descen­dants. Guided by the Holy Spirit, they started the customs we follow today, based on their own personal, social and religious ex· perience. At that time, little respect was ac­corded to the position of females and early 
customs  reflected  this fact.  Therefore  the  
Church  developed  with  an  inferior  view  
towards its female members.  

And, yes, Coglianese, we can change this. In doing so we would be implementing Christ's tradition, by picking up our crosses and fol­lowing Him. The stagnancy of ritual that Coglianese proposes as the "ideal" Church defeats this purpose entirely. What he fails to understand is the need for adaptation to the different societies and cultures, an idea realized during the Church's initial develop­ment, used to bring Christianity to Jews and Gentiles alike. 
Throughout his litany of complaints, Coglianese fails to realize the imperfections of the pre-Vatican II Church. There were many things "broken" before 1965. The rigidity of rituals that forbade community and laity par­ticipation formed a brick wall between clergy and the faithful. The lack ofa Mass in the ver­nacular, an idea proposed in the first century of the Church and a recurring topic at coun­cils since, cut off religious communication for those too young to understand and those un­schooled in Latin. The "dangerous momen­tum" caused by these changes brought about a deeper analysis offaith which had many re­evaluating their positions because of their in­creased understanding oftheir religion. 
This blind assumption hurts Coglianese's arguments. The Church was not perfect then, nor at its institution, nor is it now. It ha~ evolved over the past two millenniums and it is still evolving. To cast up an era in this his­tory, especially one known only retrospectively, shows a lack of religious and social understanding and a misinterpretation of the basic ideals of Roman Catholicism. 
Terry Kibelstts Lewis Hall 

Editorial Board Operations Board 
:~_Ihe_Obsenrer-. c .. 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Editor-m-Ch1ef .............................Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager. Dav•d Stepnen.tch Managing Editor................................. Amy Stephan Controller... . W1ll1am J H1ghducheck News Editor ............................................Frank Lipo Advertlsmg Manager J•m Hagan
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor.................................. Dan McCullough Systems Manager . Mark B Johnson 
Notre Dame duLac and Samt Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol1oes of the 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor .. ..... Theresa Guarino Product1on Manager . Jonn A Mennell 
admm1strahon of etther mst1tution. The news 1s reported as accurat~y and objectively as pos­
Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb 
s•ble Uns•gned editorials represent the op1n.on of a majonty of the Editorial Board. Commen­
Accent EditOI ....... ................................ Mary Healy
tanes. IaMers and the lflSide Column present the v1ews of thetr authors. Column space 1s 
Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy
ava•lable to all members of the commun•ty and the free expr8SSlon of vary1ng opmions on 
Photography Editor .... .................... Peter C. Laches 
campus. through leners, IS encouraged. 
Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Wotf Founded November 3, 1966 
Accent 

ND students seek to help the needy 

ROTC collects toys 
LaFortune, Sacred Heart Church
KATHY MARTIN 
and the Credit Union, have been in
features writer 
T 
place since early November and he time has arrived for mature will remain through the first week college students to make a great of December. The distribution of sacrifice: to give up thatjack-in-the-the collected and purchase~ toys to box on your desk, bid farewell to children at Logan Center w:1 take Barbie and Ken, and relinquish the place in the second week ofDecem­roommate's Etch-a-Sketch. Santa 
ber before final exams. Claus is requesting some help in Since 19•i7, the Toys for Tots this year's collection and distribu­program has grown from an annual tion ofChristmas toys and goodies, Los Angeles area program to a and Notre Dame's Marine ROTC nationwide toy-collecting effort by Program is answering the cal! of the Marine Corps Reserve. Founder duty by asking for your old toys. Colonel Hendricks, executive at The Toys for Tots program, Warner Brothers and member of 
founded in 1947 by Marine Colonel the Los Angeles Advertising Club, Bill Hendricks, is designed to bring launched a publicity campaign that Christmas presents to needy has, since its initiation, featured 
children through the collection of such well-known supporters as old and new toys. This program is john Wayne, Bob Hope, johnny sponsored at Notre Dame by Carson and Bruce jenner, as well as Semper Fide lis, made up ofNavy the famed Dennis the Menace, Bugs ROTC members who plan to join Bunny and Mickey Mouse ofcourse. the Marines after college. The toys Celebrity chairmen since 1972 collected will be donated to hand­have included Nancy Reagan, Henry icapped children at Logan Center Winkler and Sugar Ray Leonard. for Christmas. 
According to Senior Bill LotU!'.On, The Toys for Tots program has he and his fellow Senior Marine enjoyed great success both in the 
· ROTC members participate in some United States and abroad. The type ofservice project each program drew international par­semester. "We thought Toys for ticipation in 1959 to provide toys Tots would be a good project to for children of Nagoya, Japan, do," Lauson said. "It's a way for all which was destroyed by a typhoon. the students to do something for A Los Angeles television station the South Bend community for sponsored an award-winning Toys Christmas. It's easy ~o drop offa toy for Tots Circus in 1960, and the into one of the collection barrels." New York Yankees initiated a 
Ltu...on said that Notre Dame was "bring-a-toy" baseball game with involved in the Toys for Tots the Washington Senators in 1962, program last year, but very few toys which drew support for the were donated. With additional program from many associations of publicity and more collection bar­American athletes. More recent rels, La u son hopes to collect more success includes the collection of this year. In addition, Semper five and a half million new toys in Fidelis is also asking hall presidents 1984. at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, as well as organizations at Indiana So dig deep in your closets to University at South Bend, to con­donate those once-treasured, now­tribute money for the purchase of forgotten toys for a charitable new toys for the children. cause. Santa Claus is coming to 


The collection barrels, located in town, and no little stockings should North and South Dining Halls, be left empty this year. 
' ' 
r 
~ 
r 
,r Bill Lu u· on heads the Marine ROTC Toys for Tots drive at Notre Dame 
, 
r 
r­
r 
r­Food Bank gives food to poor 
r are malnourished because they trying to present this idea with
,. 
MAUREEN FARLEY 
haven't enough money to buy a simplicity while at the same time 
r features writer 
'decent meal.' trying to achieve results."
r 
T 
he guy next to me at lunch the Ed Novak, senior resident of Novak has organized the drive as other day obviously was having Fisher Hall has had first-hand ex­to make it very simple and con­
r 
,.. a bad day. As he gloomily surveyed posure to the pain so prevalent in venient. Students won't have to go r his tray, he remarked with a the South Bend Community. Living out oftheir way to make a contribu­sigh,"You'd think we'd get a decent offcampus last year opened his eyes tion. Collections take place at dorm
r r meal once in a while." I don't blame to the plight ofthe poor and the food sales each night. in front of the r the guy. He looked as ifhis best hungry. Novak is heading a campus­dining hall and in front ofthe Oak I friend just died. But how many wide collection, sponsored by Room. Hall representatives are in r comments like that trip offour Fisher Hall, the purpose ofwhich is charge ofcollections and money r tongues unthinkingly? Stop and to provide money to the South may be given directly to them. r think. Bend Food Bank located on Chapin Novak's goal is 50 cents per stu­
r 
We do have decent meals. We Street. Funded entirely through dent. "We ask no more than that", r have better than that. We have contributions, the bank provides he smiles. ' decent meals every day-as much as families, depending on their need 
we want at each meal. and size. with a balanced selection 
But there are hungry people offood -enough for approximately Dorm support has been positive here I'm not referring to starving one week. thus far. But in these next weeks, students or talking about far-off Novak's idea for the drive wa.'i when things begin to get hectic, it 
I India. There are hungry people met with enthusiasm."I've never will be easy to forget these people
r 
right here in South Bend. You don't seen so much positive feedback who so badly need your help. The 
r 
need to look far to find them. from the administration, not only in suppon of the men and women on 
r 
Families are starving. Children cry approval but in offers to help in any the Notre Dame campus would be f themselves to sleep at night. People way they can," Novak said. "We are extremely welcome.



L__ 
Tuesday, December 3, 1985 -page 8-9 
Helping to make a 'mark' in Appalachia 
Center ofSocial Concerns and S50 group of twenty. The Notre Dame
PAITI TRIPATHI 

contributed by each volunteer, the volunteers lived in the trailer for a 
features staff writer 

group set out to make a "mark" in duration ofsix days."A tender rope makes mark on Appalachia. The 10 hour time al­
"In the evening we built a camp
a stone by continued fric­lowance for the trip doubled to 20 

fire and cooked our own food. Wetion," says a well-known Sanskrit hours due to transportation were like a family."said Sagripanti. 
translation. This can describe the problems. Despite this, "It was a lot "We built this log cabin for a family feeling behind those who offun because we all became very offive which lived in a small trailerwholeheartedly "give" everything good friends while traveling,"said under bad conditions. We did notin aid ofothers. Though the results Sagripanti. 
stand around and watch...we ac­
may not always be tangible, the tually put on dry wall and insulatedcontinued persistence can, and The destination oftheir trip is the house from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. It isdoe:-., Make a difference. The insight one branch ofa world-wide or­a beautiful home. I can't rememberand any notable "mark" ofthe ganization. Appalachia Habitat for having so much fun during a break.
"cuntinued friction" is a reward in Humanity builds and repairs homes 
It would be a great if another group;tsel:. 
for the needy families in the area. -6 
were to go down, maybe for Since the organization does not Easter." 
Rewarde-d were the group of receive any government funds, it Notre Dame _cudents that traveled relies solely on private donations. "It was one ofthe most worth-while to Appalachia Habitat for Humanity thing I have ever done. I was very in Tennessee during fall break. The "Ifthe family meets certain impressed with the people there. 
group consisted ofnine students; criterions, as determined by their Everyone worked together. The Mary Sagripanti, Steve Kramp, application, the organization begins father ofthe family fixed the Nancy Camarot~, Marcy Hambidge, their aid," explained Sagripanti. electricity. It was not like us hel­Monica Murray, Susan Aylward, ping them, the family helped them­
James Boniface, Trey Dodson, Steve selves as well," said Aylward. 
"The project is not a hand-out for Pfeifer, and a chaperone; sister the interest-free mortgage has to be Carol Koltewitz. 

paid back during a very reasonable 

"It was a great opportunity to get to time period. It is very low, only a part ofthe country I have never 
Pasquerilla East's social concern S100 to S150 a month." The been before. It was satisfying to see director, Sagripanti became aware mortage received as payment is tangible results ofwork. I would ofthis project through Tom Bogen, reinvested in building other homes certainly do it again. It's nice that a 1984 Notre Dame graduate who in the area. Notre Dame provides transporta­worked for a medical clinic in Ten­

tion and encourages people to go,"nessee during the summer. She 
The staff at the habitat consists of said Pfeife. 
organized the trip as the dorm's three paid workers; two carpentersservice project. The project, and a secretary. All others are The Center for Social Concern however, was not exclusive to the 
volunteers such as those from organizes several trip such as the residents of Pasquerilla East. The 
Notre Dame. one to Appalachia. It is the center group that traveled to Appalachia 
for "sharing and giving." Because it consisted ofa wide-variety ofstu­The volunteers are provided 
continues to apply fricton, it is dents throughout the campus. housing in a large trailer home that making a distinguishable "mark" all With a van supplied by the can comfortably accomodate a over the world. 
Gaining insight from the Urban Plunge 
hours in a specified urban environ­just observing the poor," said dians still harbor hostility against holic social teaching as related to
LESTER L. FLEMONS 

ment where they participate in a Webb-Phillips. "It's also learning white people." Bearby also had the the needs of the poor. The program
features writer 

F 
variety ofactivities including tours and talking to individuals who work experience ofmeeting a family of constitutes one ofthe most power­ew will argue that the University ofnursing homes, welfare offices daily with people who have no jobs, Ethiopian refugees. "It was an ex­ful ways that the University can of Notre Dame is not the place and urban neighborhoods. Lodging home, or food." perience which I will never forget," sensitize students to the over­to visit ifone seeks to experience for the students is provided by a For many ofthe students who continued Bearby. "I recommend it whelming need for social action in poverty, injustice and degregation variety ofsources, including social live in suburbs and small towns, it is highly, to everyone. From now on, the world. "Poveny is something in the United States. Most .students workers and alumni ofNotre Dame their first introduction to an urban whenever I go to Chicago, I will that is deeply rooted in our at Notre Dame have little or no and Saint Mary's. life they have never known or seen. look at the city from a different society," concluded Webb-Phillips. knowledge ofthe rampant poverty "The Plunge usually takes place Most ofthe students are surprised perspective." 'The plunge offers students an op­and incessant apathy existing in in the home area of the students," to see individuals involved in all In many ways, the Urban Plunge portunity to get at the bottom of many American cities. Almost un­commented Webb-Phillips. "After areas oflife which touch people seeks to address the issues ofCat-those roots.' the immersion begins, however, the who live in degrading conditions of
noticed is the fact that over 14 sturlents will live in an environment poverty and oppression. "It'~
percent ofall Americans live in amazing to see so much affluence in
poverty; and that the United States the heart ofa city amid so much
ranks 17th in the world in keeping poverty," stated Debbie Adamcyk, a 
infants alive during their first year '' It's also senior from Calumet City, Illinois 
oflife. who plunged into Chicago last 
Every january, however, a group 
learning January. "There's a remarkable ofNotre Dame and Saint Mary's contrast between atmospheres. It's students bravely venture out ir.to 
a shame that more people have not some ofthe most impoverished and talking experienced it." 
urban areas in the United States. As 
participants in the Center for Social to individuals Another Urban Plunge par­Concerns Urban Plunge program, ticipant, joe Casper, recalls his these individuals seek to ex­who work daily immersion into the inner city of perience the plight ofthe im­Humbolt Park, Illinois: "I remember poverished and to gain a better with people our group leader telling us that we under-standing ofthe numerous would be staying in one of the most organizations designed to increase who have no dangerous areas in the United social justice in the United States. States," recalls Casper. "I found that 
Lastjanuary, approximately 253 jobs, home tact to be particularly comforting. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's s ~u­We ended up staying in a shelter for dents visited 3 7 states and 51 sites or food.'' the homeless, and we actually slept as participants of the Plunge. For on the floor next to people who had most ofthem the experience was an no homes or food. When the mor­immersion into a lifestyle they had that is condusive to poverty. It's an ning came, we got up to help the never seen and would certainly incredible experience." volunteers prepare food for these never forget. "There are people in Besides enabling students to people. Overall, it was an extremely 
-
this country who have no food, no experience and learn for them­gratifying experience." shelter and no medical care," stated selves the problems ofpoverty and Scott Bearby, a sophomore from Sara Webb-Phillips, director ofthe injustice in our country, the Plunge Hammond, Indiana. who also Urban Plunge. "The Plunge not only also serves as a way to increase the plunged into Chicago last january, allows students to experience students' awareness of, and contact had an interesting experience 
poveny first hand, but it also gives with, persons who are working to during his immersion: "We visited 
them the opportunity to study the improve situations for the poor. one ofthe American Indian Centers systemic causes ofpoverty in this During the two-day period, the in Chicago only to find that the country." students are expected to evaluate director of the center was offended 
According to Webb-Phillips. the the strategies employed by the by our presence," stated Bearby. students each spend a period of48 various agencies. "It's more than "Apparently, many American In-



-


-----~~~~---~­

-------~------------------------------~-----­
• 
..., 

The Observer Tuesday, December 3, 1985 -page 10 
Sports Briefs 
The ND hockey team split two games with the Air Force Academy this weekend in Colorado Springs, Colo. The Irish won Friday's opener, 8-6, but lost in overtime on Saturday, 5-4. Com­plete coverage ofthe weekend series will appear in tomorrow's edi­tion ofThe Ohserver.-The Observer 
Interhall football equipment must be 
returned today to Gate 9 ofthe Stadium. The schedule for returning equipment is as follows: Flanner Hall (6:30p.m. -7), Aluhmi Hall ( 7 
p.m. -7:30), Any other playoff team that did not turn in equipment 
(7:30 p.m. -8:30). Any other hall team can return equipment Thursday from 6:30p.m. to 8:30. -Tbe Observer 
The ND men's crew team will hold a practice tonight at 6 p.m. at the ACC concourse. All members must attend. For more information call Chris Nye at 236-4400.-Tbe Observer 
The ND Sailing Club will hold a meeting tonight at 6:30p.m. in Room 204 ofO'Shaughnessy Hall. For more information call Dan Dressel at 284-5312 or Priscilla Karle at 288-8410. -The Observer 
The ND Women's Soccer Club will hold a 
meeting tonightat 7 in the basement ofBreen-Phillips. All members should attend. For more information call Karen Moritz at 283-1362.­
Tbe Observer 
The ND/SMC Ski Team wilJ hold a meeting tonight at 7 in the LaFortune Little Theater. The meeting is only for those planning to go on the Colorado trip. Final payments and in­surance forms will be collected. For more information call john O'Donovan at 283-4006 or Tony at 283-4057.-The Observer 
"Speaking ' ofSports" wm feature an open line when it airs tonight following broadcast ofthe ND -Indiana men's basket­ball game at approximately 10 p.m. on WVFI, AM-64. Listeners may phone in their questions or comments by calling host Chuck Freeby at 239-6400.-The Observer 

Hurricanes 
continued/rom page 16 

The Hurricane defense got into 
the act early in the second quarter, 
when free safety Bennie Blades 
picked offa Steve Beuerlein pass and 
raced 61 yards for Miami's second 
touchdown. 

Backup quarterback Terry 
Andrysiak engineered Notre Dame's 
only scoring drive of the game later 
in that period, which covered 80 
yards and ended in an Pinkett three­
yard run that pulled the Irish to 20-7. 
Andrysiak suffered a slight separa­
tion of his left shoulder on the final 
play of the first half, but returned to 
action in the second half. After the 
•mme he left the Stadium wearing a sling. 
Testaverde got_ the Hurricanes back in the end zone before halftime, hitting fullback Melvin Bratton for a seven-yard scoring strike to give Miami a 27-7 halftime lead. 

Vinny Testaverde 

In the third quarter, Cox added his third field goal from 48 yards, and Testaverde threw his second touuchdwon pass, 15-yarder to flanker Mike Irvin, to give Miami a 30-7lead. 
Johnson refused to call off the dogs at that point, and Testaverde and company kept rolling up the yards and the points. The 6-5 Hur­ricane quarterback capped an SO­yard touuchdown drive with a 
.. ·,.
• . ·" . .
.... . 
---_,_· .__.;.... it' ~ ­
-
( 

A /len Pinkett 
one-yard scamper early in the fourth period, and hooked up with wideout Andre Brown on a 17-yard scoring play a few minutes later to put Miami up 51-7. 
Miami defensive back Bubba McDowell blocked a Dan Sorensen punt with three minutes left in the game, and defensive tackle Bill Haw­kins recovered in the end zone to forge the final score. 
While. many Notre Dame players said they thought their team was prepared, some said that the Irish were not as well-prepared as they might have been. 
"Everybody tried to cover up, but underneath we still had the pressure and the tension," said conerback Mike Haywood. "There was so much tension, no one had a good week of practice. We were never really emo­tionally into it." 
EXTRA POINTS -In addition to Andrysiak's shoulder mJury, linebackers Tony Furjanic and Mike Kovaleski also suffered knee injuries in the game, Irish defense gave up more points than their bas­ketball counterparts, who beat But­ler, 87-56, Saturday in the ACC. .The 66th Annual Notre Dame football banquet is tomorrow night at the ACC. Tickets are S19 each and are available by contacting Athletic Director Gene Corrigan at 239-7106. New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner will serve as guest speaker. 
s.turdly'l a.m. 

Notre Dame Miama  0 13  7 14  0 10  0 21  - 7 58  
UM • FG Cox39  Scorint  

UM-W. Williams 6 run (Cox kick) UM-FG Cox47 UM-Bennie Blades 61 int. return (Cox kick) NO-Pinkett 3 run (C•ney kick) UM-Bratton 7 pua from Teataverde (Cox kick) UM-FGCox48 UM ·Irvin 15 paaa from Testaverde (Cox kick) UM-Testaverde 1 run (Cox ki'ck) UM-A. Brown 17 paN from Teataverde (Seelig 
kiCk) 

UM -Hawkins rec. blocked punt in end zone (Cox kick) 
NO UM Firat downs 17 29 Rulhing attempts 41 37 Net Yards Ruahing 146 135 Net Yards PUling 193 399 
Puses romp-attempted 12-24 25-36 Had antercepled 1 0 Total Net Yards 339 534 Fumblee-loet 1-Q 3-0 Penaltaes-yards 5-48 4-30 Punta-average 6-33.5 o-o 
lndlvlduel LAedlra 
RUSHING-Notre Dame: Pinkett 18-n; Bauerlein 4-5: Brown 1-3; Monahan 4-21: Anaysiak 4-2; Fran­cisco 8-33; Green 1-5; Starns 1-Q; Miami: Highsmith 8-31: Wilhama 9-43; Bratton 5-20: Teataverde 6-5; Oltver 3-2: Torretta 1-2: Penny 4-38: Perriman 1-(-6); 
PASSING -Notre Dame: Beuerlll!) 6-11-1 ,84; Andryaiak 6-13-0.109; Miami: Teataverde 22-32­0,356; Torretta 3-4-0,43; 
RECEIVING-Notre Dame: Pmkett 3-39; Eason 1­
21: MiUer 1-23: Stams 1-8; Ward 3-53: Francisco 2-36; Williams 1-13; Miami: Smith 6-80; Irvin 5-67. Highsmith 3-74: Henry 1·11: Blades 1-17; Perriman 4-97; Brat1on 1-7; Oliver 1-15; Waliams 1-7; Stanaah 1-7: Brown 1-17; 
Attendance -49,236 

1 ht• Ohs..rn·r '\otrl' f>.tmt· otfitt' lot .ttnl on tIll 1htrd lloor ol l . .tl·ortum· -,tudt•nl ( t'llltT Jt ll'PI' tl.l"tlit·d .JJ\ t'rll'lll~ frt •m ') .l m until I p m . \lnnJ.l\ 1hr11u~h I rltl.l\ Tht• U-h.~t7'1'f'r '-.trrlt \l.tn 'otfitl'. lot.ltl'd on tht· thtrd llo11r ot lf.l~J.:.lr <ollt-~t· <t·ntt·r .Jttt·pt' tl.l.,,tfinl' trom 1.! \o p m until _, p m \lon UJ\ thou~h I rtd.l\ lkJdlmt· tor llt'" dJ\ tl.l"tlinl' " ., p m \II tl.i'"llnh JlHJO,t lw prt·patd l'll lll·r 111 pt·r\( Ill or In nlJtl ( h.Jr~·· ,, I tlll'lll' rt-r fj, l' l h.tr.Jt
Classifieds 
tt·r, ·r t.la' 

NOTICES  Lo.T: A pair of reddilh-framed women's glaaeea in a cream colored cue. 11 found, pleae call4128. Thanka.  WANTED  l  OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N., 1 BlOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  Commumst Rag From Hell number 2 it coming your way soon'! CONGRATULATIONS, KAREN AND  HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY ELLYN MAS­TAI<O! LOVE, MANY "OBSERVANT" FRIENDS  
PREGNANT?  PAUL!  
TYPING CALL CHRIS 2J4-8117 TYPING 277-ICM5 FREE PICKUP I DEUVE"Y .,... -you played it once, but haven't touched your instrument for ~? If you'd ~ka to taka it up again, just for the fun of it. contact. in person or by campus­mail: ar..<:horua. Andreas Krueger, 310 Computer/Math Build. LOST/FOUND I FOUND: A woolen cap on the Sidewalk ira front ot the Notre Dame Poet Office. May be a-imed in Room 8-19 Fi1Zpa1rick or by calling 239-638 1.  STOLEN BLACK WALLET: There it not­hing of value left in it since I cancelled d the plutic and there wu no money. Save someaemblance of decency andMve me further huele by juat returning it. And if you are caught stealing anything else at lhe new pool you can expect no mercy. Leave it at to.t and found or if anyone hal found a black walet ­pleae cell me or drop il oft. STEVE 2459 117 Pangborn 'lis tfle INIOn for loling tfJinga .. THERE ARE TWO THINGS I HAVE LOST RECENTLY THAT ARE CRUCIAL FOR MY SURVIVAL ON THIS CAMPUS AT THIS TIME OF YEAR: 1. AN NO CREDIT UNION AUT().TEU..ER MACHINE CARD. You know you can't get money out ot my account because you don't have the secret accea~ no. I do, and I need that card! 2. AN LL .EAN GLOVE, LEFT HAND. It's navy on the back. dirty grey on the front, liglt blue hning. Taka pity on my freezing left hand! IF FOUND. PLEASE RETURN TO PAULA MIRANDA.(I'M IN THE DIREC­TORY.) THANKS SO MUCH!!!!!  SEEKING FEMAlE ROOMMATE AT N.D. APTS. $112/mo. PLEASE CALL LIZ 288-8110 WANTED: An apartment for two guys for spring semester. Wil lake either a two­person or 1 lour-peqon place. Prefer Campus Vi-but will taka other. Cell Mike at3342. RIDE OR RIDERS NEEDED TO U OF Ill. LEAVE 12/6: CAU 2309 SEEKING a ride to ANN ARBOR This Weekend Fri.6-Sun.8!WiH Share ex­p-18iN2155 Need riders to I.U..BLOOMINGTON­Leaving Thura. & retumang Sal. night call ED at 1528. Riders needed to NORTH JERSEY for Christmas break. can leave December 18 or 19. call Michelle2n-4364.  NEEOHELP? Call 234-0363. 24-hr. hotline. counaeling & free pregnancy IIIII. WOME..'S CARE CENTER Earn $$$ for all lhose books you didn't read!! PANDORA'S win buy your uled books M-F 11-4. or we can help you find a uledbook for a due. We're open M·F 11­6, SAT & SUN lQ-5. PANDORA'S is op­posite CORBY'S at 937 South Bend Ave Need a ride to and from Chic.go? Rides to and from Chicago, Fly chHj>er than the airlines! Call Ptanemaater Services Inc. 312-3n-s730 To our FAVORITE freahman (oops, you're a SOPHOMORE now•) HAPPY BELATED 19th BIRTHDAY MARK NEMEC!!! Luv. your 2 FAVORITE SMC seniora FOR SALE NAD 6040 CASSETIE DECK--EXC COND CALL 288­8529(1201 DIAMOND) Angel and Co: Guinneas and Eire are  I gueaa a nod Ia as good as a Wink to a blind bat! Best WIShes. Friendahtp mutual blackmaal capabilitiea. G. 'Tvaseen lonely timea when I could not find a friend, But I always thought that I'd see you again." Love, S PATTI CARROLl PATTI CARROLl BEWARE!!! Ellen, What a great Thankagtving. We hadsome serious fun in Z-Town (or was it The Vile?). Loved that ice water. And that turltay full of friendly fat ... Yum Yum. No that was ace cream. In any case, we'll have to go back before Joe is too big to fit in Brian's suitcase. Thanks for tharing it &I with me. Love, Your JerMy Coueln P.S. Maybe next time we can buy soma  Queen of the Stlent laugh, ace apartheid reporter, and one of the best damn Accent layout people there it up hera in LaFortune--­THE ELLYN MASTAKO becomes a legal woman today. Senior Bat on Wednesday night is the place to be to see this tpectacte. And if she whiapers to you over her drink there-you know ahe·s in trouble. THE BRIDE IS BACK YOU'RE INVITED TO THE OFF CAMPUS & AUGUSTA HALL WEDDINGLESS RECEPTIOh THURSDAY. DEC.5 9pm·2pm SAINT MARY'S CLUBHOUSE 21 10 REQUIRED Tickets on sale Mon-Thura at SMC Christmas Bazaar and Senior Bar Weds. ELLYN MASTAKO THIS IS YOUR LIFE WILD, CRAZY. UNPREDICTABLE AND ALL YOURS FOR 21 VAS. NOW CHEERS TO YOU HAVE A FEW ON ME IN CHI TOWN LOVE, MOUSE  
LOST -BURGUNDY GIRL'S EYE GLASSES BETWEEN THE GROTIO BUS STOP AND FLANNER. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL THERESAAT284-4128.  II,____F_O_R_SA_LE--...JFOR RENT ~----------------~ Ia It True You Can Buy Jeepa for 144  great. With party chic:ka could be here to teach me to ride a horae Miss you al tons. Your lriah connection. THANK YOU  blow glass figurines. Attention Junloral Have a message for a friend abroad? If it's short and sweet (& clean) send it  EXCISE COPS!!!I ................................................................ LOOII. OUT CHICAGO'  
- $$$REWARDS$$$ LOST: UNUSUAL BlACK METAL PEN SOMEWHERE ON NO CAMPUS HIGH PERSONAL VALUE CALL 288-8119 OR 284-5038 $$$REWARD$$$ SOMEHOW I ENDED UP WITH YOUR KEYS! The only problem it that I don't know who you are. If you to.t tr.at of your keys at a party in the 832 building of Notre Dame Apta_ and if you -nt them beck. conhlct Mary'Belh at 288-55n. Lo.T: BLUE ND .OOK IIAG IN lOUTH DINNG HALL ON THUM., 11·25 AT LUNCH. IT HAS INITIALS MW PLEASE CAU.. MIKE 234-11M17 PLEASE.  For next aemeater furnilhed house 5 bedrooms good area 1 mile north of N.D. 2n-3604 Nice lurnithed homea for neXIIChool yNI 2n-3604 Nice semt-lurnilhad house in good neigh­borhood lor 3 • 255-3684. 6 BEDROOM HOME-NEXT SEMEITER.WALKING DISTANCE TO CAMPUS.272-1308 one male roommate needed at N.D. Apt.a. Only $107/month. For more info. caM Curt at 232-7547 or Shirtey at N.D.  Jhrough the U.S. government? Get the fiiCta todly! Call 1-312-742·1142, Ext. 7311. MOOG SYNTHESIZER. exc. cond., $650/ofter x3566. TICKETS 72 WANTS TO SEE YOU THIS SUN­DAY!! Two Beara-Colta tka. for sale S60 lor the pair (No warm dothes ancluded). GaH2n-2839  Thanks to all those. especially the or­ganizers -Jeff and Dave, who made my day. MU..PHY'8 LAW STATES: NEVER TURN DOWN A FREE .EER. I DIDN'T. thanks llgllin. murph Pal'S 11an to Philly: hey, I'm going to the Carribean Islands and I am taking a pen­guin and some rum. Anyone wanna come With me ? One of the red hllllded Hoosiers. 0 HOLY ST. JUDE APOSTLE & MAR­TYR, GREAT IN VIRTUE & RICH IN MIRACLES. NEAR KINSMAN OF JESUS CHRIST. FAITHFUL INTERCESSOR OF AU WHO INVOKE YOUR SPECIAL PATRONAGE IN TIME OF NEED. TO YOU I HAVE RECOURSE FROM THE  free! Call Margaret at 4088 or Bill at 3328 trt Friday. WHAT A BURGESS! Happy Birthday, Rick DEAR JACQUE. HAPPY 1st AND-A­HALF ANNIVERSARY• I LOVE YOU!!!­JOHN BOSTON CLUB BUS BOSTON CLUB BUS BOSTON CLUB BUS CHRISTMAS B"EAK Sign-ups TONIGHT 6:30-7:30 in LaFortune Main Lobby (look for Mus .state flag) All New Englandens welcome  ELLYN MASTAKO TURNED 21. HAPPY 8-DAY! LUV,PAN&MB DEAR SMELLYN; HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!!! CHICAGO HERE WE COME. YOU ARE A GREAT FRIEND! REMEMBER-THE BEST WAS YET TO COME. MURPHSKY Dear Scnookuma; Thanks so much for dmner. it was 11ery special. Looking for­W81d to friday. Love, me OUR TRIP TO NEBRASKA: EAT THOSE JERSEY PLATES! SHOULD I PASS THIS TURKEY? WHO ARE THE BARTENDERS TONIGHT? SHOEHORSE?!1? SILVER BUUETS• G  
FOUND: ONE BASKETBALL  STUDENT BOOK OF TICKETS. FOUND  Apta. Male houaemate(t) needed to sh81e ex­penses 2nd semeater. rent $90­ PERSONALS  DEPTH ,OF MY HEART AND HUMBLY BEG TO WHO GOO HAS GIVEN SUCH GREAT POWER TO COME TO MY PRESENT URGENT PETITION. IN  Brlnt $50 refunde~Me depOalt TONOHT BOSTON CLUB CHRISTMAS BUS  AND T'SI TIRES' ROADIES' MY TIE LOUNGE1HST' CHASED BY ANGELLA THE KILlER HOOK! LET'S MAKE A TCAST1THANKS SCHANNE. MJ  
BEFORE THE ST. JOSEPH'S 8-BAU  100/month plut food & uli~b• location:  . . . . .  ....  RETURN I PROMISE TO MAKE YOUR  Sign-up  TONIGHT  L.aFortune/6:30­ 
GAME. THERE WAS NO NAME ON THE BACK OF THEM, SO TO CLAIM, YOU MUST TELl ME EXACTLY WHERE YOUR SEAT WAS LOCATED CALL TIM  71 1 Rex St. Call Mtke or Kevin at 233­5715 3 BORM APT. AVAILABLE. MILE FROM  Loo~r m a mt"or. and one thing·saure: what -.see i& not who we are. • Rtch•d Bach.  NAME KNOWN AND CAUSE YOU TO BE INVOKED. (3 OUR FATHERS, 3 HAIL MARYS. 3 GLORIAS). ST. JUDE PRAY FOR US AND ALL WHO INVOKE YOUR  7:30/$110 ROUND TRIP BRING $50 DEPOSIT Be there or be stranded in Soult! Bend BOSTON CLUB CHRISTMAS •us  I HAD A DREAM ... I HAD AN AWESOME DREAM!!-BOCA RATON MEMORIES  
AT 1243.  NO. CAll 233-7631.  The~--AcrOM Forever  AID.  lquMI!...tquMk...aquMII  

-



.
The Observer Tuesday, December 3, 1985 -page 11 

Dolphins end Bears' dream of perfection 
AMoclated Press 
MIAMI -Dan Marino reverted to his record-breaking form of 1984 Monday night, passing for 270 yards and three touchdowns as Miami shocked Chicago 38-24 to end the Bears' bid to become the first team since the 1972 Dolphins to com­plete a National Football League 
seasqn withoqt a loss. ·t' Th~' 1 vi~tory was the fourth straight for the 9-4 Dolphins, who pulled into a three-way tie in the American Conference East with the New York Jets and New England 
Patriots. 
The Bears, who had outscored their three previous opponents 1 04­3, fell to 12-1 before a national television audience and a sellout crowd of 75,594 in the Orange Bowl. 
School William &Mary William &Mary William &Mary North Carolina St. North Carolina St. North Carolina St. North Carolina St. Arkansas Arkansas Arkansas Arkansas Arkansas Arkansas 
Arkansas Minnesota Minnesota 

Career 15 110 60 5 .643 5-4-2 
Lou Holtz' College Coaching Record 
Year  w  L  T  
1969  3  7  0  
1970  5  7  0  
1971  5  6  0  
1972  8  3  1  
1973  9  3  0  
1974  9  2  1  
1975  7  4  1  
1977  11  1  0  
1978  9  2  1  
1979  10  2  0  
1980  7  5  0  
1981  8  4  0  
1982  9  2  1  
1983  6  5  0  
1984  4  7  0  
1985  6  5  0  



Miami quarterback Dan Marino completed 14 of27 passes, in­cluding scoring strikes to NatMoore andMark Clayton, as the Dol­phins defeated the Chicago Bears, 38-24, last night in the Orange Bowl. 
Pet. .300 
.~17 
.455 .708 .750 .792 .625 .917 .767 .833 .583 .667 .792 .545 ;364 .545 
Bowls 
L 
w 
w 
T L 
w 
T 
L 
w 
L 
w 
? 


At First 
you succ 

Reception: VVednesday,Decernber4, 1985 Morris Inn -Alumni Room 7:00-9:00P.M. 
All interested candidates are welcome 

Interviews: Monday, February 10, 1986 

Fu:' !.Inks~'""'"' th•J•t!! t.,..,,!>.nk hol6r.c ~l:'~ny In the <OUnt:y ....,,.., b.onks lr.c! t:"JstCOr:lO.OIC5 tr. ~:·1~ SOC!!: Mi~neseu. Nort:: C.akec.J. Slluth Ca~:a. Mor.ar.J and WiscOJrum. ~ond • c..-.u; cccr:~rw ar. 
Mannezpohs .and F:rst 3•ni S•ant P.aul loacd &n Mir:;-.cs.;a. lire the svl:::e=:5' ~-o f4~shtp b•nks. With comb,c.cd ..sc:itn •~cess of Sl3 btDoon. Scvc:•l off:ces •nd bm:<l:•s.,;1lso lcm.-i .aO;c.ad...!ecluse of_:he ccm;:e~:~~e :ur.~re ":l~ ccdJys dc:eguUce:i blnkxng !!:tYircn..."'!'!e!!t. Ers~ 3-ln!t Sys;:e:.: 
:it:O::l"~.'.crnrrar::e-J co mv~c:r.g tr.e a;;:c:: .1cc: mcne"/ t'le".:.esgryco ~!p tcs tr.'iastar~ls ~t'"~r:te t.i.e be$;:~ 

Irish 
continued/rom page 16 
"Maybe they thought the game was still in question," Irish quarter­back Steve Beuerlein wondered aloud. "There's no way to justify what they did unless they honestly felt that the game was in question. I'm sure this won't be forgotten. A lot ofthe guys on this team will still be around in two years when we play them again." 
Said cornerback Mike Haywood, "They're front-runners without class. When they got on top, they just tried to score as many points as they could no matter what hap­pened." 
Even one priest on the Notre Dame sidelines was moved to say, "That's horse(bleep)," as he pointed to the Miami sideline following the . blocked punt. 
What Miami was doing to Notre 
Dame on the field did not go un­
noticed by the national audience 
watching the game on television. 
"It's terribly bush by Jimmy Johnson," said CBS commentator Pat Haden. "He's up by 35 points, and he's throwing the football and running reverses. I just do not believe this is what college football is all about." 
At one point in the game, defensive tackle Eric Dorsey showed Miami's Vinny Testaverde what he thought of Testaverde's ef­forts on a one-yard bootleg which made the score 43-7. After Tes­taverde crossed the goal line, Dor­sey ran a vicious forearm up into the Hurricane quarterback, drawing a 1 5-yard personal foul penalty. 
"I didn't even care if I was kicked out ofthe game," Dorsey said. "I was so upset. I didn't care whether the play was dead or not. We got embar­rassed, I got embarrassed. It was my last game and I didn't want to lose like that. 
"They went out to beat us by a lot. I don't care ifthey were winning by 100 points or 1,000 points, it wouldn't have been enough for them." 
Dorsey did admit, however, that he would have done the same had the score been reversed. 
"lfit was the other way around. I'd say, 'Sure, run the ball down their throats.' We don't really like them very much." 
The feeling is mutual. Even before 
the game began, at least two Hur­
ricanes had publicly stated their 
dislike for Notre Dame. 
--Happy Birthday----
Kafie O'Brien 
You finally made it! 
Love, 
Jen, Brigid, Maureen. Terry&Mary 
and dirty tactics by Miami which have characterized recent games between these two teams. Two years ago, when Miami humiliated the Irish 20-0 on national television, a number ofinsults were thrown the way of the Irish players. One Hur· ricane yelled to the Notre Dame sideline during that game, "Get your Catholic (rear ends) back to South 
Bend.'' 
Last year's 3 1-1 ~ Miami win at 
Notre Dame Stadium saw similar 
play as five personal fouls were 
whistled in the first quarter alone. 
1f there was anything which 
impressed the Notre Dame players 
about Miami this year, though, it was 
the restraint with which the Hur­
ricanesconducted themselves when 
it came to dirty play. 
"I lost some respect for them when they ran the score up," said defensive tackle Wally Kleine. "It was totally uncalled for if you ask me. But I was real impressed that they didn't call us names or taunt us this year. I think it shows the maturity of their program." 
Dorsey added that at least Miami 
wasn't biting and cussing the Notre 
Dame players as the Hurricanes have 
done in recent years. 
In the end, Notre Dame coach 
Gerry Faust remained polite, refus­
ing to chastise eitherJohnson or the 
Miami team for what many had said 
was "pouring it on." 
"Football's football," Faust said. 
"You play it to win. These are deci­
sions a coach has to make. I don't 
fault Qohnson). What's three points 
or 30 points? You've still lost." 
Johnson's response to all the criticism thrown his way was to throw it right back in Notre Dame's face. 
"How many times have they done that in the past," he retorted. "lf it had been me on the otherside rather than Faust, there wouldn't have been a word said about it." 
Maybe so, but it is doubtful that Faust would have done the same to Johnson had he been given the chance. 
"I don't like all that tradition 
stuff," said running back Melvin 
Bratton. "I don't like Notre Dame. I 
hate them." 
Highsmith added, "There's been bad blood for a while. I know they don't like us and I know, for a fact, that most ofthe players on our team don't like them." 
One thing which didn't occur in this year's game was the taunting 
Santa Claus is conaing to town 

$21.95 
277-7026 

I 
I 
I I I 
~ 
j 
l j 
I l 
.. 


-~ ~ ----~ -·-~ --~ ----~--~------·~--~-~ ----­
-~ The Observer Tuesday, December 3, 1985 -page 12 

Irish outrebound Butler to gain revenge for last year's loss 
ByPHILWOLF four minutes remained in the first double figures, with 11 points and a Dolan into the starting lineup in game at Notre Dame," Phe.lps said. Sports Writer half. Then, with the score 25-23 for team-leading four rebounds. place of Tim Kempton. Kempton, "He really has improved a lot over Notre Dame, Scott Hicks scored six As the Irish started to roll in the who sat on the bench with what the summer as well as this fall to 
It was a first halfto strike fear into of his eight points on the day to second half, their shooting Phelps called "a small pinched nerve where he's going to help us in the the hearts of Notre Dame basketball spark the Irish to a 10-point lead at percentage, which lagged at .400 that cramped up" in his upper back, front line." fans who remember last season's 70-the half, 35-25. ( 14-of-3 5) in the first period, leaped was ready to play ifcalled upon, the 69 overtime loss to Butler. That halftime score looked haunt· to .545 (18-of-33) for the second Irish coach said. Voce had six points, six rebounds 
But an eight-point Irish scoring ingly similar to the 37·25 halftime period. The Irish also hit 16 of their Gary Voce, a 6-9 sophomore, and two blocks in his 14 minutes of streak at the end ofthe period, along score of Feb. 28, 1985, when the 20 attempts from the free-throw came off the bench to play "his best play. with an 11-point run in the second, Bulldogs upset Notre Dame in their line. allowed Notre Dame to rack up an Hinkle Fieldhouse. Butler, meanwhile, fell prey to in­87-56 victory over the Bulldogs "We felt very good at halftime," tense defensive pressure, and the 
Notre O.me 87, Butler 56
Saturday in the Athletic and Con­Sexson said. "We knew it would be Bulldogs' shooting feU from .407 vocation Center. very difficult to overcome a 1 0· ( 11-of-27) in the first half to .382 
Notre O.me (87)

The win put the Irish at 2-0 on the point lead against such a fine team, ( 1 3-of-34) in the second. Butler(56) p
p M FG-A FT-A R F
M FG-A FT-A R F
season, while the Bulldogs fell to I· but if we could hold them to 35, "Their pressure on the defense 
Gallahar 30 Q-3 2-4 3 2 2 Royal 27 2·3 2·2 7 1 6 
1. why, we felt very good about that. really bothered us," Sexson said. Tucker 31 5-10 1-1 4 5 11 Barlow 31 7-13 5-6 6 3 19 Fourteen first-half turnovers by "We played pretty good early. We "There aren't many teams that win yeater 15 1-4 o-o 1 1 2 Dolan 21 1·3 1·1 5 1 3 
Rivers 27 8-15 6-6 6 1 22
the Irish helped Butler keep the wanted the score, the tempo, to be here, so I only feel bad that we didn't Fowlkes 19 Q-2 o-o 1 0 0 
4 18 Hicks 20 4-11 0·0 6 0 8Fitzgerald 33 9-21 o-o 1
score close in the early going, but at that pace." execute as well as I'd hoped." 
Beeuwsaert 12 1-3 Q-1 3 2 2Croner 3 Q-2 o-o 1 0 0
Notre Dame owned a 28-11 But the pace changed dramati· Notre Dame head coach Digger 2-3 1 1 4 Stevenson 10 4-4 0-0 3 3 8
Beam 8 o-o Peters 3 Q-2 o-o
advantage in the rebound depart· cally in the opening minutes of the Phelps took the opportunity to play Givens 21 5-8 3-4 4 3 13 0 0 0 
Sm1th 13 1-4 o-o 0 1 2
ment in the same period. second half, as the Irish took off, 13 players once his team had a safe Jones 8 0·1 o-o 1 2 0 
Spight 12 Q-2 2·4 2 2 2 Conner 6 1·2 2·3 2 0 4
The Irish outrebounded the Bul­helpedalong by an 11-pointspurt, to lead. Price 
14 2·5 3-4 2 2 7Mackey 7 1·3 o-o 3 2 2
ldogs 54-26 in the game, much to a 52·30 advantage. "What we're trying to do," Phelps Voce 14 1·3 4-4 6 1 6
Harper 10 1·2 o-o 0 2 2 Nicgorski
the chagrin ofButler head coach joe . During that four-minute span, Ken ';said, "is.establish cert,ain (starting) Herbert 3 o-o o-o 0 1 0 2 o-o 0·0 0 0 0 200 32-68 23-27 46 15 87
Sexson. Barlow canned two jump shots, and 'personnel and certain peoplc:lo com· 200 24-61 8-13 22 25 56 "I told our team there's no way freshman Mark Stevenson came off 'ing offthe bench who can really give 
you can beat a team if you get beat the bench to hit a jumper ofhis own us the depth we're looking for. FG Pet. • .393. FT Pet. • .615. Team FG Pet. • .471. FT Pet. • .852. Team on the boards that badly," Sexson and tip in one ofBarlow's misses. "If we're going to be good in rebounds • 4. Turnovers • 25. Assists • 9 rebounds-8. Turnovers· 25. Ass1sts • 12 (Givens 3). Technicals ·0. (Rivers 4). Technicals-0. ·
said afterward. "Notre Dame is Barlow finished the game with 19 March," Phelps continued, "it's got awesome. We're not that bad, but points, behind David Rivers, who led to be our bench. What we're trying we can't play with that (rebounding all scorers with 22. Both players to do is get the bench involved to margin). They were tremendous on grabbed six rebounds, second only where they can contribute. the boards." to Donald Royal's seven. "What we don't want is to lose the 
Halftime • Notre Dame 35, Butler 25. Despite Notre Dame's rebound· Darrin Fitzgerald paced the Bul­intensity when we go to the bench." Officials· Buehl Roach, Tom Grzywinsk1, Mike Wilde (all from MAC). 
ing advantage, the Bulldogs stayed ldogs with 18 points. Chad Tucker Phelps went to the bench before 
A-9,244.
within five points until only about was the only other player scoring in the game even started, inserting Jim 

Women's basketball loses against Purdue, rebounds at W. Michigan 
By NICK SCHRANTZ points. The Boilermakers regrouped in Sports Writer The Irish were led by Trena Keys the next 3 minutes to score 10 un­and Sandy Botham, each of whom answered points, as the Irish The Notre Dame women's basket· pumped in 12 points. Freshman for­couldn't even get off a shot. Purdue ball team opened its season with a ward Heidi Bunek made her debute tied the score at 18 apiece with 6:22 disappointing 71-54 loss to Purdue with an impressive offensive perfor­left in the first half, and then out· last Saturday in West Lafayette. mance, as she scored 10 points on 5 scored the Irish 11-6 to take their 5 
Last night, they bounced back to of 7 field goal shooting. point lead into the intermission. defeat Western Michigan, 94-65, at Irish coach Mary DiStanislao was Kalamazoo. Trana Keys was the high disappointed with her team's initial Purdue quickly furthered their scorer for the Irish with 24 points, performance, but gave Purdue much lead in the second hal( but an Irish while Heidi Bunek recorded 21 of the credit for causing her team's surge capped by a Kathy Brom­points. problems. meland jumper put Notre Dame 
On Saturday, the Irish scored five "We didn't play as well as we ahead 36-35 with 14 minutes to more field goals than their op· needed to," Distanislao said. "We play. ponents, but the Boilermakers used went down to West Lafayette and The momentum changed quickly, 29 of 4I shooting from the free ran into a buzzsaw, as Purdue was as the Boilermakers ran off 11 un­throw line to easily pull away with unrelenting. We started strong, but answered points to take an insur­their second victory in three games. we never controlled the tempo and mountable 46-36 lead with 1 0 
Purdue had 22 free throws came turned the ball over too much." minutes to go. in the second halfto extend their 29· "We're physically in condition The Irish pulled to within two 24 halftime lead handing the Irish and prepared, but Purdue was a rude points at 48-46, but the Boiler· their first loss. awakening," she continued. "It makers went into the bonus situa­
Purdue guard Sharon Versyp shot showed us that we have to become tion and consistently hit from the an amazing 14 of 1 5 from the charity more assertive." line, including 11 of 12 from Versyp. stripe and finished with 16points. In The Irish came out strong and Notre Dame's 34 turnovers and addition to her game leading 1 0 held a 12-0 lead with only four 4 3 percent shooting from the floor rebounds, Boilermaker center Cathy minutes elapsed. Keys, Botham, and ruined any chance for a comeback, Tyree poured in 9 of 12 shots from Bunek scored two baskets apiece to as the Irish went on to lose a game the floor to lead all scorers with 24 key the initial Irish surge. that they could have won. 
The U<MC'rvrr. 

Notre Dame women's basketball player Sandy Botham fires a jumpsbot in a game lastyearat theACC. The sophomorecenterand her teammates suffered defeat against Purdue Saturday but bounced back to win over Western Michigan last night in Kalamazoo. Details at left. 
SOPHOMORES 
We scoff, at the fact that we scheduled our ski trip on SUPER BOWL WEEKEND. Meanwhile we have a solution: 
SKI ALL DAY SAT & SUN., AND LET 
THE PARTY CONTINUE BY WATCHING 
SUPERBOWL XX WITH 100 OTHER 
SKI/FOOTBALL CRAZED SOPHS! 
SIGNUPS FOR THE CABERFAE SKI TRIP/ 
SUPERBOWL EXTRAVAGANZAHAVE 
BEEN EXTENDED UNTIL WED., DEC. 4 
BRING s20 DEPOSIT TO THE ClASS 
OFFICES BETWEEN 6-10, MON-WED. 

BANKING••• ON CAMPUS AT SAINT MARY'S 
1st Source Bank's office, located at Saint Mary's College in Haggar College Center, offers free checking to Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students and faculty. 
In addition, this office brings you the convenience of 24 hr. banking locations to serve you! 
Banking Hours • Monday through Friday 
Mon. thru Thurs.-11:30 a.m.-3:30p.m. 
Friday -11:00 a.m.-4:00p.m. ~ source 
..:aank
Join Michiana's 1st Team 
for unsurpas..sed banking service! Member F.D.I.C. 
--------~~-----------------------------------------------------------.----------------------------------------­
The Observer Tuesday, December 3, 1985 -page 13 

ND basketball takes on Indiana in televised big early season challenge 
By GREG STOHR Brooks and seniors Stew Robinson coach. "That's got to be a factor for Sports Writer and Winston Morgan. us to score points." · To improve its series record to Ken Barlow leads the Irish with 19 
Notre Dame men's basketball 31-18 against Indiana, the Irish will rebounds. The 6-9 senior forward is faces its first significant challenge of need the continued backcourt also averaging 16.5 points per game. the young season tonight when the dominance ofDavid Rivers. The sop­After victories over relatively Irish will meet 1-0 Indiana Univer­homore is averaging 21 points a weak St. Joseph's and Butler squads, sity at Assembly Hall in game for Notre Dame, including 22 Phelps recognizes the journey to In­Bloomington, where the Irish have in Saturday's 87-56 victory over But­diana as his team's first true chal­not won since the 1973-74 season. ler. lenge. The contest begins at 7:30 and will Phelps feels that his team will also "I think we just have to see how be televised on WSBT-TV. need to control the boards to win. good we are," said Phelps "It ;will be 
Notre Dame, 2-0, will tangle with The Irish out-rebounded their first a typical Notre Dame-Indiana a Hoosier squad very different from two foes by an average of 16.5 per battle." the one it defeated, 74-63, at home a game. IRISH ITEMS -Phelps says that year ago. The graduation of 7-2 "I think that's what this game is senior forward Tim Kempton will center Uwe Blab and the additions of going to become -who dominates start tonight. Kempton had missed speedsters Ricky Calloway, who on the boards," said the 15-year Irish the Butler game due to a back injury. scored 23 points Saturday in In­diana's 89-73 victory over Kent State, and Andre Harris have given the Hoosiers a new, quicker look for 1985-86. 
NFL standings
"Calloway and Harris have given Indiana basketball the dimension we 
NATIONAL CONFERENCE 

AME..ICAN CONFERENCE
were looking for a year ago · quick· 
e.t Eaet
ness," says Irish head coach Digger 
w L T Pet. PF PA 
w L T Pet. PF PA 
9 4 0 .692 231

Phelps. "Now they've got the quick­
Dalla 269 N-England 9 4 0 .692 276 231 
N.Y. Gian'-8 5 0 .615 315 231 N.Y.Jem 
9 4 0 .692 323 228

ness to match up with us. It's a dif· 
Wuh1ngton 7 6 0 .538 226 260 Miami 9 4 0 .692 336 269
ferent Indiana team." 
Philadelphia 6 7 0 .462 223 238 Indianapolis 3 10 0 .231 245 330 
St. Louie 4 9 0 .306 220 325 Buffalo 2 11 0 .154 169 269
The mainstay of the Hoosier By C.W. EHRMAN the whole story," said Coach Art
c.ntr.l 

Cennl
lineup, however, is standout junior 
Sports Writer Lamben. "The team showed im­guard Steve Alford, who pumped in 
Chicago 12 1 0 .923 383 165 Cleveland 7 6 0 .538 236 205 
Detroit 7 6 0 .538 261 280 Cincinnati 6 7 0 .462 344 352 
provement during the year.
Green Bay 6 7 0 .462 267 261 Pin.burgh 6 7 0 .462 295 249
24 points against Kent State. Last 
The Notre Dame women's vol­Everyone gave 110 percent all the year Scott Hicks and the Irish 
Minnaeota 6 7 0 .462 272 301 Houlton 5 8 0 .385 233 
Tampa Bay 2 11 0 .154 247 371 

.... 315 
leyball team closed out the season in way."
WMt L.A. Raiders 9 4 0 .692 308 285
defense keyed the Notre Dame vic· Kalamazoo, Mich., playing in the The Irish had it rough with W es­
L.A. Rama 9 4 0 .692 261 227 Denver 9 4 0 .692 
325 275

tory by holding the Olympic gold 
San Franciaco 8 5 0 .615 329 201 Seattle 7 6 0 .538 291 250 
Ransier Invitational over the tern Michigan and just missed pul­NewOrleanl 5 8 0 .385 249 391 San Diego 6 7 0 .462 359 339
medalist to just four• points, well weekend. ling off an out-of-this-world
Atlanta 2 11 0 .154 242 391 KanauCity 
4 9 0 .308 226 302

below his 18.1 season average. 
Unfortunately, the Irish dropped a comeback against Houston that "Alford is a 20-point ballplayer," 
pair of matches to Western Mic­would have been a bright moment at said Phelps. "I doubt very much if 
higan, 15-5, 15-5, 15-6, and to Hous­the end ofa long and brutal season. 
Monct.y'• "-ult

we can do it (containing him) again ton, 15-5,17-15,9-15,14-16,16-14. Despite their pitfalls this season,
Miami 38, Chi~24

this year. It's very, very hard to con· 
That leaves the Irish with a 12·21 the team gained valuable ex­trol him." 
season record for a team that played perience against some of the best Other top Hoosiers include junior 
an almost suicidal schedule. competition in the country which Daryl Thomas, sophomore Delray 
"The win-loss record does not tell should show next year. 


Take a breakfrom long, cold winter days••• 
Dine in the traditional 
"e!!!!!!!!!~ e UNIVERSITY I'OODSERVICE 

Faculty Dining Room 
NOTRE  DAilE  
where there is a daily feature of  Luncheon Buffet $2.99  
Homemade Chili  
a Garden Fresh Salad  Soup & Salad $1.69  
and a Cold Meat & Cheese Platter  
Feast on two Hearty soups  Luncheon meetings welcome  
and three Tempting Entrees  We also accept reservations  
along with tw9 Styles of  
Bakery Fresh Breads  
And a homemade dessert too!  




~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ ----~~~--~ 
The Observer Tuesday, December 3, 1985-page 14 
Wants to stay in college coaching 

Faust expects to have new job soon 
By LARRY BURKE 
AssistantSports Editor 
MIAMI -Saturday's debacle in 
Miami was Gerry Faust's farewell to 
Notre Dame, but it was apparently 
not his last hurrah as a head football 
coach. 
The 58-7 loss to the fourth-ranked 
Hurricanes left Faust's Notre Dame 
record at 30-26-l, which represents 
the most losses ofany coach in Irish 
history. Despite his lack ofsuccess at 
Notre Dame, though, the 50-year old 
Faust said Saturday he expects "that 
in two or three weeks I'll be coach­
ing as a head coach somewhere 
else." 
Faust refused to be specific about 
where he might be headed, but he 
did say before the Miami game, "It's 
not up to what Notre Dame stan­
dards are. I know that. I'm not kid­
ding anybody." 
Faust fashioned an impressive 174-17-2 record in his 18 years at Cincinnati's Moeller High School, but was unable to win more than seven games in any of his five seasons at Notre Dame. Saturday's loss dropped Notre Dame's season record to 5-6, and made Faust the first coach in Irish history to post two losing seasons. (His '81 team 
was also 5-6.) 
He said Saturday he wants to remain in college coaching and has in fact had several offers since he an­nounced his resignation a week ago. 
"But that's something that I have to sit and evaluate, which I'll do this week.," he said. "I've had some calls and things like that and I really haven't made my mind up what I'm going to do. I told them to get back in touch with me in the middle or the end of the week. 
"I had some business oppor­tunities also and I told them to get back to me in the middle of the week. IfI had a gut feeling right now I think that I probably would like to stay in college coaching, working with young people. But I want to think about it for a couple of days. Il's not the time to make a decision one way or the other right now. I wouldn't make it if we won 40­something to nothing nor am I going to make it after we lost the way we 
did." 
He said that he has especially enjoyed working with athletes on the collge level. 
"I really like college football be­cause I think it's really exciting," Faust told reporters Saturday. "It's really a science because of the pas­sing game and because of the in­tricasies of pass defense and things like that. It's really a challenge, and 
it's a lot of fun. You've got so many great athletes at the college level. Every football team has great ath­letes. 
"I think the key to college football is that you've got to have a great quarterback and you have to have a good defense. And I think that if you 
have a great quarterback and some • : 
skilled athletes and a great defense, • 
then you're going to win." : 
He said he felt his experience at : 
Notre Dame would help him at his • 
next stop on the collegiate coaching : 
•
trail. • "I. have improved," he said Satur­• day.""I thirik the difference between •
e me in my first year and me now is a •• 500 percent improvement, I hope • even more. If I haven't improved, • 
e 
then I would really definitely think • ·ofgetting out ofthe game. •
•
•
"But I feel so much more com­fortable now at making decisions. And I'm excited about starting over 
E 
if I get the opportunity because I'm 
•
not going to make the same mistake 
• 
twice." •
•
Before the Miami game, Faust • desrcibed the kind of job he was •
• 
looking for. •
•
"I want to stay as a head coach if e there's a university where I can go •
•
and win with the ethics that I think •
• 
are necessary to win," he said. "Ifit's • a university that hasn't been up-and­coming in some things, and they're willing to go up-and-up, then I'll be interested." 

But the Notre Dame job, which Faust called his "dream come true" five years ago, has always been something special to him. 
"Nobody knows the position until they sit in the chair," he said. "You can always talk about it and everyth· ing like that, but until you sit in that chair you really don't know what it's like. As far as the criticsm goes, I just let it go in one ear andout the other. 
"I'd stan back tomorrow, though, to be honest with you. I've said that all along. It's a tough position and everybody shoots for it and everyth· ing like that. But you can't beat the young men you work with. They're just tremendous kids. They work hard, and they've got a lot of pressure on them academically and athletically. They're quality kids. 
"I don't have any regrets about my years at Notre Dame. You've got your ups and downs in life, and I've had a couple of downs but I'll be back up again. It's been a great, great experience and I've loved every minute of it. Times like now you don't really like but that's part ofthe game of football. That's pan ofsports and you just have to learn to live with those things and bounce back. And I'll bounce back." 
When asked Saturday about the possibilty of staying at Notre Dame in another position, Faust said "No, I've never even talked to them (the administration) about it, to be honest with you. 
"My boy's going to go to Notre Dame next year and I'm really happy about that. So I'll have one (child) at Notre Dame, one at Saint Mary's Col­lege and one at the University of Dayton. So I've got to get a job that 
Attention Sports Writers! 
Mandatory Meeting Thursday, 6:30p.m. LaFortune Little Theater 
If you have written sports this year or are interested in writing sports for The Observer, you must attend this meeting or call Jeff Blumb at 239-5323 before Thursday night. 
: • 
•
• 
• 
• : • 
e 
• •

qn1o ~au~o;) aql puno~v • :.l:q pa~osuods • 
: 
• i i idO ~GISXNNflS ~~~SHflOX GNid GNV e
• 
.. dn GN~ SIHJ... dO saNnos ~HJ. o.r. 3:JNva m~oo : • : 
s :ll N I l:l a .r. .!! o s : a N v v z · z 1 d H ,r •
3 3 

: •
• 
·w·"B oo·: 1 -·w·d oo:s • an1J l:IOIN3S-INWn1V e
•
L H~8W~:J3G e
•
xvaHn.r.vs •
•
•
:~ulJ"Barld"B aq 111M •
•
•
•
• 
".II Ill ,,.! ~. ~ 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 
ON\'fl )f:JO"'O 3H.L e
•
•
• 
pays a little money so I can get them all through college." 
After the Miami game, Faust tried his best to talk about his players rat­her than himself. 
"No, I really didn't think about this being my last game," he said af. terwards. "We just wanted to win the football game, and we didn't ex­ecute well enough to win the foot­ball game and they ( Miami) did execute well. 
"My feelings are probably for the players more than anything, to be perfectly honest with you. I would've liked to have seen those seniors go out in a good, tough foot­ball game. And we didn't do that. You have to bleed for them :l little bit because they're great kids and they work very hard and it just didn't work out today the way they would've liked it to work out, nor the way we would've liked it to have worked out." 
He said that he had wanted his players to keep their mind on the game instead of his personal situa­tion. 
"Before the game I just told them to go out and play their game," he said. "Don't get caught up in the jive or any of that stuff. just block and tackle well and handle yourself well on the football field, and let's come home with a victory. 
"After the game I just told them to hold their heads high because they're from Notre Dame and we're very proud ofthem, and they should be proud that they are Notre Dame men. I wished the underclassmen good luck and told them I'd be watching them next year and I hope they have a great year. To the seniors I just said 'I wished you could've gone out in better style, but I wouldn't have traded any of you for anything in the world." 
\ 

... 
-.~
... · 
~~' 

Former Head Coach Gerry Faust bangs bis bead in frustration during tbe humiliating defeat at tbe bands ofa tJengefu/ Miami team. After tbe game, however, Faust refused to berate Miami for running up tbe score. 
University of Notre Dame College of Business Administration 
The O'Neil Lecture Series 
SPEAKER: Dr. Martin L. Weitzman, Professor of Economics, Massachusetts Institute 
of Technology 
TOPIC: "Profit-Shoring as a Way to Reduce Unemployment" DATE: Thursday, December 5,1985 
TIME AND PLACE: 
12:15 P.M., Faculty Seminar Board Room, Hayes-Healy Building All members of the University of Notre Dame Faculty are Invited. 
4: 15 P.M., Lecture and Discussion Hayes-Healy Auditoriurr (Room 122) Faculty, Students, ond.the Public ore invited. 
The New York Times 
From an Editorial of March 28, 1985 
"Best Idea Since Keynes. • In what may be the most importantcontribution to economic thought since John Maynard Keynes's General Theory, Martin Weitzman, an H. I.T. economist, suggests an elegant way to break the link between employment and the business cycle. He set out his plan in a readable 1ittle book called '"The Share EcOnomy. •• The core of his idea is something like profit-sharing: to change our system of fixed wages to one in which workers' incomes are detel'l1ined by company performance. Host workers are paid according to contracts. From the employer's perspective, how much they're paid depends almost entirely on how many hours times the hourly rate. If the cost of extra hours is less than the extra revenues the work would yield, the e~ployer hires more people. If workers insist on higher wages or sales fall, they get laid off. Professor lleitzman asks us to imagine a different pattern. Point one: Suppose that labor, instead of nt>gotiating for so many dollars an hQur. negotiated for a share of company revenues. Point two: Suppose the agreement leaves the employer free to hire as many more workers as he ..ants. Attitudes toward hiring "'ould be transformed. 
... 
1bc ~rver/HannH Hacker 
..----------------~-------------------------~------------------------­
T0 day_____________________ • 
T_u_e_s_d_ay_,_n_e_c_e_m_b_e_r_3_,_1_9_8_5_-_p_a_g_e-15 
Bloom County 
5C£.. FIK~T I PICK (}(JT A &IRL Ff((JJ1 TH€5€ PfCS... WRITe HER II FtW Lt'f7CRS.. f/?01'05£ .. SfN{J ~ f1(}()6H 10 THt 'BK!Pe 8ROK6f? ~.. 
Zeto 

~WOME TO CBS 51tVCr.S: I~BFENTM~ 
WITH ARA PAASE6HIAN. 
"ANfl1HtN Ft.Y 11€1? 0~1{ HERE AN/J tf£ GeTMARKI£/J. 1WS, SHE' GeTS lltt"£RICA 
ANfl I (£T lfF£LOfot(j f?CVflTlON AN[J PlltY1P£R/Nu. 
AM, THE~Es BEEN A urn.£~ 0/E.R MIA/11 ~ JIM IX!I:WSON s 
Berke Breathed 
WHCH. Of C(}(Jf?~. MAK€5 M€ 
5€CR6TLY WISH 7HRT [£~RAL 
t...OVaY GO-{:;() I?IWC£f?S 
WJC/L[J tWI5Sf/(£ 1H!M ... 
WHICH. OF WI?S€, 15 JUST 1H€. 1YP!Cf/UY riM8flfJI?fi551NG tt!JKit CtJt1/Tl?AI?/cnON rM AL-WAYS I 
Cllf/61fT IN. 
Kevin Walsh 

The Far Side Gary Larson 

ll-3 


The Daily Cros~ord 


4-Clemente  36 Baldness  45 Kind of lab  51 Flat-topped  
5 Forth  37 Nathan the  dish  hill  
6 Noted poet  patriot  46 Stimulus  52 Victim  
7 Masc. title  39 Green quartz  47 Mex. money  54 Abbr. In  
8 Sigma's  40 A dye  48 Mr. Roberts  recipes  
follower  42 Like an omelet  50 Chinese  55 Sun. talk  
9 Haphazard  43 Bulging vessel  gelatin  56 Capture  

Campus · 

•12:00 
P.M. -Brown Bag Seminar, "The Return of Democracy to South America", Louis W. Goodman, Woodrow Wilson Center, Washington D.C., Room 131 Decio Hall, Sponsored by Kellogg Institute 

•4:00 
P.M. · 6:00 P.M. · Lecture, "Small Na­tional, Giant Firms", Louis W. Goodman, Woodrow Wilson Center, Washington D.C., Room 131 Decio Hall, Sponsored by Kellogg Institute 

•4:30 
P.M. · Seminar, "Ecology and Epidemiology of Jamestown Canyon Virus", Dr. Paul Grimstad, University of Notre Dame, Room 283 Galvin life Sciences Center, Sponsored by Department of Biological Sciences 


· • · 
•7:00 
P.M.· Presentadon, Presentation on a career in auditing with the Federal Reserve Ba~ of Chicago, Angela Chin and John Rem­men, Room 122 Hayes-Heal}, Sponsored by Arts and Letters Business Society 

•7:00 
P.M.· 9:00P.M. -Open House, Open House for MCAT preparation program, Faculty Dining Room, South Dining Hall, Sponsored by Stanley Kaplan Center 

•8:30 
P.M. -Lecture, Does Philosophical Analysis Always Fail: Personal Identity as a Case Study, Professor John Perry, Stanford University, Room 21 0 O'Shaughnessy, Sponsored by Philosophy Club 


ACROSS 1 Lacunae 5 "Golden Boy" 

playwright 10 O.T. name 14 Ox 15 Nosepiece of 
a helmet 16 Teasdale 17 53 A e.g. 20 Shelter 21 Toque 22 Short stops 23 Worldwide 
relief org. 24 Blue-pencil 25 Ridiculous 28 Cross 32 Social group 33 Bottle 34 '"-Mutual 
Friend" 35 Vetch seed 36 Heb. letter 37 Very small 
distance 38 Common 
contraction 39 Factory 40 Urgency 41 Face 43 Hit hard 44 Circuits 45 Clear square 46 Mate 49 Eagle 50 Elec. unit 53 17 A 57 Serv. branch 58 Fr. department 59 Naturalness 60 --poly 61 Time of year 62 Server 
DOWN 1 Part of 

ancient Europe 2 Hathaway 3 Kind of bonnet 

© 1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 

Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Southern Fried Chicken Veal Marengo Broccoli Quiche Grilled Reuben 
TV Tonigh~ 

6:00P.M.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
6:30P.M.  16  NBC Nightly News  
22  CBS Evening News  
7:00P.M.  16  MASH  
22  Three's Company  
7:30P.M.  16  Barney Miller  
22  College Basketball: Notre Dame  
vs. Indiana  
8:00P.M.  16  TheA-Team  
28  Who's the Boss  
34  NOVA: "Animal Architects"  
8:30P.M.  28  Growing Pains  
46  Blackwood Brothers  
9:00P.M.  16  Riptide  
28  Moonlighting  
34  Winds ofEverest  
46  LeseaAiive  
9:30P.M.  22  WKRP In Cincinnati  

Saint Mary's Grilled Pork Chop Spaghetti with Meat Sauce Spaghetti with Marinara Sauce 
10:00 P.M. 
11:00 P.M. 
11:30P.M. 
12:00A.M. 12:30A.M. 
1:30A.M. 2:00A.M. 
Cheese Souftle 
: 

16 Remington Stede 
22 Billy Graham Crusade 
28 Spenser: For Hire 34 Nature: "Mans Best Friend" 
46 Dwight Thompson 
16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 WSJV Newswatch 28 
34 Nightly Business Report 
46 Praise the Lord 
16 Tonight Show 
22 CBS Special: Copacabana 
28 ABC News Nightline 
34 Wild Wild World of Animals 
28 Eye On Hollywood 
16 David Letterman 
28 Africa Report: The Nightmare Continues 
22 Happy Days 
22 Nightwatch 
46 Independent Network News 
All Rights Reserved 
10 Shrewd 11 Raised platform 12 Commedia 
dell'­13 Baseball great 18 Windy City 
airport 19 Artless 23 Solid 24 Burst 25 Old Gr. 
dialect 26 Approving cry 27 Temptress 28 Stoke-on-­29 Dinner item 30 Retinue 31 Went wrong 33 Social groups 
Wednesday's Solution 
12/3/85 



l 
I 
I 
f 
l l 
I 
I l I 
I I 
I I 
r 
I 
I I I 
Tuesday, December 3, 1985 -page 16
Seorts 

Irish manhandled by fired-up Hurricanes, 58-7 
.-~ 
./l>·
Testaverde keys devastating 
aerial attack with 356 yards 

By LARRY BURKE just one touchdown, racked up five AssistantSports Edttor quarterback sacks, and grabbed an interception. 
MIAMI -For Gerry Faust, the Testaverde had a field day, con­"dream come true" ended in the necting on 22 of 32 passes for 356 worst ofall possible nightmares. yards and three touchdowns. 
Saturday evening produced no Miami's 399 total passing yards storybook finish to Faust's turbulent (backup Geoff Torretta threw for five-year stint as Notre Dame's 24th 43)were the most ever surrendered head football coach. It produced in a game·by a Notre Dame team, and only the ugliness and embarassment Testaverde's individual total was the that the Irish were forced to face second highest ever. after they were manhandled, 58-7, After the game, Faust said his by a talented Miami team that ob­feelings went out to the Irish viously felt it had something to seniors. The most well-known of prove. those, tailback Allen Pinkett, 
And afterwards there was little finished the game with 77 yards on doubt the Hurricanes got their point 18 carries. He wound up his Notre across. Dame career, and extended his 
The motivation for Sugar Bowl­school record, with a final total of bound Miami wao; plain. Head Coach 4,131 yards rushing. Jimmy Johnson and his fourth­For Notre Dame, it was a defeat of ranked Hurricanes ( 10-1 ) were out epic proportions. It was the worst 
~ Obeerver/Hanna Hacker
to prove that they are the best team loss in Faust's Irish coaching career, 
Notre Dame tailback Allen Pinkettdives through details the game at right, while jeff Blumb com­
in the nation. And what better way the worst loss for a Notre Dame 
a bole to score the lone Irish touchdown in the 58-7 ments on the tenure ofJonner Head Coach Gerry
for them to accomplish that than by team since the Irish were beaten by 
loss to Miami. Pinkett ended his career as the 
Faust.
beating up on a Notre Dame team Army, 59-0, in 1944. It was also the 
leading rusher fn Notre Dame history. Larry Burke
that they admittedly do not like, fourth-largest losing margin ever for before an Orange Bowl crowd of a Notre Dame team, and the second­49,236 and a national television highest number of points surren­

Notre Dame players, fans angered 
audience? dered in a single game in the 
Johnson tipped his hand Saturday school's history. evening when his opening remarks The loss dropped Notre Dame's after the massacre were about the final record to 5-6, making Faust the 

by Miami's relentless style ofplay
polls and not the game itself first coach in Irish history to post "There's been quite a bit of talk two losing seasons. (His '81 team ByJEFF BLUMB son's kick, with another Miami the high score in light ofthe fact that and controversy about polls and finished with the same record.) The Sports Editor player scooping the loose ball up for Miami was trying to prove it a touchdown. deserved to be ranked higher in the
which team is the best football team Irish also finished the regular season and where a team should be with three straight losses for the MIAMI -The bad blood which has In the game's final minute, Miami polls than its present No. 4 standing. ranked," Johnson said. "I really third time in Faust's five seasons. existed between the University of ran receiver Brett Perriman on a "We wanted to prove we're the beleive the entire couuntry just saw The Hurricanes started small Miami and Notre Dame football reverse. best team in the country," said the very best football team in the Saturday, with a 39-yard field goal teams over the last several years was Yet, Miami coach Jimmy Johnson Miami fullback Alonzo Highsmith. country tonight. I also believe that from Greg Cox midway through the given a transfusion Saturday by the defended the way his team played "If they had a chance to do the same they saw the very best player in the first quarter, but as the1r defense got Hurricanes' 58-7 rout of the Irish. when the game's result was out of thing to us up in South Bend, they'd country tonight in (Miami quarter­better, so did the offense. The Irish Most everyone, save Miami fans, question. do it." back) Vinny Testaverde." managed just one first down in the agreed the Hurricanes had run the "You stay in the offense that you 
Added receiver Michael Irvin, "A It would be tough to argue with quarter, which paved the way for score up unnecessarily. run," Johnson said. "We're a passing 
lot ofguys kept running up to Coach
either statement. As a team the Hur­Miami offense to take control of the With a 37-7 lead after three team. Everybody knows that. We 
school our to Johnson and telling him to pour itricanes looked awesome in all game. quarters, Miami continued to pass quarterbacks take on, pour it on. We wanted to show
phases of the game. Their offense They began doing that on their more than 50 percent of the time, advantage of what defenses the op­
everyone doubting us we could play
rolled up 534 total yards, averaged a second possession, which ended in a even leaving first-string signal caller ponents run, not to be governed by ball."
whopping 7. 3 yards per play, held Warren Williams six-yard touch­Vinny Testaverde in until it was 43-the scoreboard. the ball for 3 5 minutes to Notre down run that gave the Hurricanes 7. "We didn't even have a punt­Meanwhile, the Notre Dame Dame's 24, and did not commit a tur­all the points they needed. Cox With the score already up to 51-7 block in our game plan. We had players said there was no doubt nover. In ten possessions Miami's of­added another field goal, a 47-and Notre Dame preparing to punt punt-return-left and punt-return­about the ability of the Hurricanes 
fense was stopped twice -once by yarder, late in the quarter to stake late in the game, Miami put 10 men right on. We had two men rushing and they would have none of such the clock at the end of the half, and Miami to a I 3-0 lead. on the line of scrimmage. One Hur­the punter and that block for the talk. again by the clock at the end of the ricane broke through the Irish line touchdown just happened." 
See IRISH, page 11See HURRICANES, page 10 

game. Their defense held the Irish to in time to block punter Dan Soren-Many Hurricane players justified 
Whoever said that nice guys finish last? 
MIAMI -Dirty towels and tape were strewn all about the 
"Things just didn't end up the way we'd like." wet floor. The dreary room was virtually empty as only a Alot oftimes during Faust's tenure at Notre Dame things small contingent of reporters remained in a semi-circle Jeff didn't end up the way he might have liked. But while his around Allen Pinkett. A few student managers rushed coaching ability always will be called into question, his about in a last-minute effort to load up any remaining gear. Blumb nature will not. 
And there in the near corner of the room was Gerry Bluntly, Gerry Fau!'t is the nicest guy you could ever 
Sports Editor 
Faust, soaked in perspiration from "a long day at the office," meet. signing autographs for two policemen guarding the locker That's what made not only Saturday's game but the room door. The team bus would be leaving soon and Faust events of the last five years so painful for so many. Painful still had to catch a shower beforehand. 23 men who preceded him. His 30-26-1 record won't put for fans, and, yes, even painful for the media. 
He could have blown right by the two men in blue, his name among those of Rockne, Leahy and Parseghian, " 
Face it, Faust deserved a betterfate than that which came
brushing offtheir request for his signature as he hurried off but he won't soon be forgotten. 
his way. Pinkett summed this up, saying, "Maybe it goes
to the shower. Nothing really was forcing him to stop and It's hard to forget his fortitude under constant criticism 
back to the old adage. Maybe nice guys do finish last." 
sign. When it came right down to it, Faust was no longer orhis grace under pressure. No, it's not every day you meet Faust did not finish last, simply because success isthe Notre Dame football coach. a man ofsuch iron wiD. 
measured by more than wins and losses. One of the mostHis "dream come true" had ended only minutes earlier 
fitting tributes to Faust might have been bestowed uponin the most abrupt ofways, and it would have been easy for Despite the magnitude ofSaturday's loss and the way in him by defensive tackle Wally Kleine following Saturday'sFaust to take out his frustration at the 51-point loss on which the Hurricanes rubbed it in, Faust himselfrefused to game. "He's been my friend, and he always will be myeveryone in his path. be critical of either Miami coach Jimmy johnson or friend," Kleine said. 
Still, he did not. Instead he stopped to give his autograph Johnson•s players. In Faust's mind, not even the fact that it Faust is the friend of everyone he meets. ·There is noand shake the hands ofthe two. A glowing smile remained was his last game as Irish coach could overshadow the mis­
better way to describe him. 
on his face, politeness remained in his demeanor. fortune ofhis players. 
You would have sworn that Faust had just gotten the job Finally, it was time for Faust to depart the locker room. as Notre Dame football coach. "My feelings were more for the players," he said. "I Eventually he had made it to the showers, and now he was "I admire you so much. Ionly wish I could handle adver­wanted to see them go out better. I bled for the kids. They the last to leave the tattered remains of both the locker 
sity the way you do," one ofthe men told him. are such great young men. I'd rather have a better memory, room and his career. A handful of people met him outside, No less friendly in the end than in the beginning. especially for the seniors." among them Pinkett's mother. "I'm ready to go again," Faust said, grinning. ''I'd start "Winning the last one would have been a great way to go "We're with you. We'll always be with you," she said. 
again tomorrow_" out, but I didn't bring it up. I simply told them that this was "God bless you," Faust replied. "Thank you, and God The truth is that he won't have the opportunity, resigned a game for the seniors. I will get another time.The seniors bless you all." to a place in the Notre Dame record books along ~th the won't." God bless you Gerry Faust. 
~~-~---------'-------------------------...1 




