Ireland -page 10 
THURSDAY, APRIL 11, 1985 

Healy and Bertino take rap for ND government miscues 
··~ 
.....-0;:r~lfri !!' 
APPhoto

Bush league southpaw 
Vice President George Bush is in fine fonn Tuesday as be throws the ceremonial first pitch at New York's Shea Stadium, during the New York Mets season's opener zl/itb the St. Louis Cardinals. 


Hooks: fight continues for equal civil rights 
ByTOMMOWLE noted that blacks "have made prog­SentorStaffReporter ress but have not yet reached the promised land" and deplored the 
"This is your hour. Seize it and use young "who do not know the name it, use it to build an empire not to of Rosa Parks," the black woman exclude but to bring in all people, who refused to give up her seat on a build and show them what we can Montgomery, Ala., bus in December do if only given the chance," Ben­of 1955 and helped start the civil jamin Hooks told his audience to a rights movement. standing ovation last night in the li­"The young should remember brary Auditorium. that they are standing on the 
Hooks, the executive director of shoulders of those who have gone the National Association for the Ad­vancement of Colored People. 
See HOOKS, page 3 ByJOE MURPHY 
StaffReporter 
Who's in charge? 
After Tuesday's ruling by a Judi­cial Council committee, Bill Healy automatically became the president ofthe Notre Dame student body and brought into office with him a new Student Senate. 
Monday, Healy petitioned the council to rule whether the exten­sion enacted by the Bertino adminis­tration and the now replaced senate was constitutional. 
Sophomore Class President Jim Domagalski said, "I am surprised it took Healy so long to decide to oppose the extension. I think his switch now is good because it protects what is right, but it is bad becau:.e it signals that's he's the kind of guy who can switch positions easily. 1bat is an unstable sign for student government." 
Healy served as a member of the Committee to Restructure Student Government. He said before his peti­tion Monday, he had not made public any reservations about the extension or the proposed constitu­tion. 
"Healy did the right thing," new Student Senator John Ginty said, "but I cannot imagine how he went along with it as long as he did." 
Healy said, "Better late than never. I had discussed it with my parents, administration officials, and my friends. I decided it was too much too soon." After he made his decision to question the validity of the extension, Healy said, "I was prepared to take the heat from al­most everybody." 
Bruce Lohman, a member of CREST, said, "I don't understand Healy's reasoning. He seems to bear­guing that he's helping the commu­nity, but in order to restructure student government you have to know something about it. Somebody should ask the new senators how in depth they understand student gov­ernment." 
"Healy has shown an incredible lack of discipline. He is the classic definition of a reactionary politician," said Doug Wurth, an ex­ecutive coordinator for Bertino and a CREST member. 
Wurth said, "Healy has shown a definite penchant for changing his mind. It does not seem to occur from any new insights, but from a lack of insights. In another issue coming up, Healy has totally changed his position concerning the student activities fee increase of fif­teen dollars. At first, he wanted part ofthe fifteen dollars for student gov­ernment; now he wants to add five dollars for student government to the fifteen." 
Healy said, in reply, Wurth's at­tack is premature. "I have not yet made that decision. I will be going to the Board of Trustees with a pro­posal for an increase in the student activities fee," said the new student body president. 
"Student government has taken a beating this whole semester," said Healy. "There was a lack of leader­ship. We've got to define our role before we act. Student government must ask itself three questions: What do students want it to be? What will the administration let it be? What is it capable ofbeing?" 
Several leaders ofthe 1984-85 stu­dent government said Healy's deci­sion to change his position came after a meeting with a member ofthe Notre Dame administration. Healy said that was "absolutely, positively not true." 
"Healy drifts with the wind. At least, Bertino knew what he was going to do," said Wurth. 
Healy said, "The proposal basi­cally came from one individual ­Doug Wurth. We are going to go to the students for ideas." 
New Hall Presidents' Council Chairman Kevin Howard said, "I don't think what Healy did was right." The HPC will pick its repre­sentatives to the senate at its next meeting and work with Healy, Howard said. 
Former Judicial Coordinator, Tim 
McDowell, who supervised the 
committee which declared the ex­
tension unconstitutional, said he did 
not think Healy "acted at the last 
minute." McDowell said, "I don't 
consider that the work on restruc­turing is lost. It can still be adopted. The council was the proper channel to do what Healy did." 
Wurth however said, "If Healy was concerned with a technicality, why did he not bring it up sooner. My point is he simply couldn't come 

~ 
up with an alternative to the pro­posal so he kept silent. He lacks an 1 understanding of how student gov­ernment could better structure it­
1 
self" 
The man who Healy replaced, Rob Bertino, said only, "I hope the CREST proposal will be strongly 

lconsidered by the new student sen­ate." 
Domagalski said he was con­cerned with both the Bertino and the Healy administrations. "I am dis­traught at the way they are doing things," he said. 
Concerning the decision of the council, Domagalski said, "I am glad justice has been properly upheld. I was the only senate member who voted against Bertino's interpreta­tion of the constitution. All through the year, I've been the one person to stick to the rules." 
Ginty said Bertino "showed utter disregard for any rules that might impede his plans when by anyone's standards it was wrong to extend the terms of office and certainly uncon­stitutional as theJudicial Council in­dicated." 
Ginty said, "The council's ruling proves Bertino is the one _who doesn't know what the hell he's talking about. Once the council was formed, I do not see how they could have reached any other conclusion." 
Last week, Bertino said incoming senators Ginty and K. C. Culum "didn't know what the hell they were talking about" when they ques­tioned the constitutionality of the extension. 
Yesterday, Bertino said, "I don't even think it is necessary to com­ment on John Ginty's ignorance. I think it showed through at the April 1 Student Senate meeting." 
"Bertino always says that. Every­one knows what I am saying is the truth. Had he obeyed the rules, he would not have had to been shoved out ofoffice," Ginty said in reply. 



Extra historyI social science class gets tentative thumbs up 
Editor's Note: Last spring the Uni­businessmen, and philosophers at The proposed change would ex­versity Curriculum Committee the same time. tend the requirement to two released a 17-page report outlin­But the recent examination of semesters of history or social sci­ing several major changes in the present University curriculum ence, which could be completed at Notre Dame's core curriculum. requirements for history and social any time during the four years. The report was given to the Aca­science has united educators from One major concern about the Curriculum demic Council last year for many areas -all in the name of a proposal involves the problem of rez1iew, and on Monday the coun­stronger liberal arts education for allowing students to choose be­
requirement 

cil toil/ vote on eight proposals. A Notre Dame students. tween history and social science. 

in History

recommendation to require an­The ad hoc University Curricu-Statistics from recent years show otbet· course in history or social that the system cannot stop science is examined in thefollow­"clever" students who often are 

or Social 

ing story• ·part two ofa four-part able to graduate without a single series examining the curriculum ~urricu~um course in history. Science report. Because history is a single de­
~errevtew partment, and social 
science in­cludes many departments, history has been a noticeable victim ofstu­


By CINDY RAUCKHORST lum Committee, formed as a result dent apathy. Copy Editor of the recent PACE report, has pro­Statistics gathered by Notre 
The University Curriculum Committee has proposed that
posed extending the present one Dame on the Class of 1982 
the present requirement of one course in history or social
It's not often that a single issue semester requirement in history or revealed that 98 percent of the 
science be expanded to two courses. The Academic Coun­
can be agreed upon by Notre social science, normally com­

See LIBERAL, page 6 cil will vote on the recommendation Monday. 
Dame engineers, economists, pleted in the freshman year. 


---~---~---~-­
The Observer Thursday, Aprilll, 1985-page 2 



Put aside restructuring, 
In Brief 

begin progress now 
An Iowa anti-draft group is demanding an apol­ogy from the U.S. Marines after one ofits recruiters called the group "a bunch ofcommunists." lbe comment came in response to Iowa City Draft Counseling advertisements for a campus workshop on military draft legislation. -The Obseroer 
The Saint Mary's Board ofGovernance 
and the Programming Board met in a joint session last night in the Haggar College Center. Chairman of the Loft Committee Anne McCarthy reported an enthusiastic response thus far to the College's new loft policy. A resident assistant representative to the Board is under consideration. Student government is sponsoring a "Gripe Night" April 30 from 7 to 9 p.m. And Pomi Smith has been named chairman of Little Sisters Weekend for next year. Plans include changing the date of the weekend to sometime in the fall. · The Obseroer 
The Student Activities Board announced its 
new business managers yesterday. They are Keith Spatz, manager of the Student Saver; Cathy Snakard, manager of the Irish Gardens, Holly Henrikson, assistant manager, and Laura Chavez, assistant manager; John Magill, manager of the Rock Dulac Records, Andy Saal, assistant manager; Bob Newhouse, manager of Darby's Place, Judy Silva, assistant manager; Robert Dunn, manager of The Under­ground. The assistant controllers of the SAB are Laura Johnson for business, Teresa King for disbursements, Mark Moots for publicity, Joe Reid for bad debts, and Shelly Jegier and Joe Brunetti for cash collections. -The Obseroer 
Of Interest 
Father Theodore Hesburgh,University presi­
dent, will be participating in Walsh College's 25th anniversary celebration in November. Also participating will be C. Alexander Peloquin. an acclaimed composer of liturgical music; Bishop James Malone, bishop of Youngstown, president of the ll.S. Catholic Con­ference of Bishops and world-n:nowned theologian; and the San Diego Chicken. -The Obseroer 
ProfessorJulian Samora is retiring and the past and present students of the Notre Dame Mexican-American Studies Program are paying tribute to the 25-year veteran of the field of sociology. 1be tribute, scheduled for tomorrow, will include a sym­posium and a banquet. Anyone interested in attending should call Olga Villa Parra at 239-6661. 'Jbe registration fee is S1 0 and will include the cost of lunch. -The Obsen•er 
An air band contestwill be held toniglu beginningat 7 in the New Orleans Room of LaFortune Student Center. Cash prizes will be awarded. 1be contest is part of the An Tostal spring festival. -The Obsen>er 
Due to Bookstore Basketball,vehicle parking 
on the bookstore, Lyons, and Stepan Center basketball courts will be prohibited after 4 p.m. from April I 0 to April 26, while the Bookstore Basketball Tourney is played. Games are played in all weather condi­tions and employees are asked to make other parking arrangements during this period leading up to the championship games during the An Tostal weekend. -The Obseroer 


Weather 
April at last? Partly sunny today. High in the upper 50s. Partly cloudy tonight. Low in the mid 40s. Mostly cloudy tomorrow with a 30 percent chance of showers. Highs in the mid 60s. -AP 


The Observer 
Th~ O'*'rnr ( l 'Sf'!> ~9'l 2..1()()0) ;, 
puhlisht"d Monday through Friday and on hom<" f<x>thall Saturday•. t"XC<"pl during c:xam and vacauon ~nod"'i. The O'*'rv~r is puhhsh<"d hv tht" s!Udt"nt• of rhr l ;nJvrnity of Notre Dame and ~aint Mary's CnU<"I!<" Subscnption• may be pun·ha.sc:d for J W pt"< y<"ar ( JlO P"r sc mc.rcr) hy wnung Th~ 0'*'"'"· P 0 
Box(}, Notr<" Dame. lndtana ~6~~6 
Th«o O'*'rv~r is a m<"mbcr of Tb<" 
"->clat~d PffM. All rt"produnion 
right~ arc rc~n·c:d. 
·1 o<.lay·~ ~~~ue wa~ produced hy: 
Design l:'dttor............ .. ....... Anne l.onJ~ /Jesign Assistant ... ...... Mark Md.auJihlin 7)pesetters ....Jennifer Bigou, Tracy Brin· gardner 
News f:.'tlttor... ....... ..... Mary Heilmann Copy Editor ...................... Mark Pankow•ki Sports Copy Editor... ................... Phil Wolf Vieupoi11t Copy Editor......... Cindy Boyk Viewpoint Lt~yout ............... Prbcilla lUrie f£~1tures Cofl.J' Editor.. Mar~o.1rc:t Ml·Caht· Fet.~tures LtlytJUI............................ T<)m Hall NIJ /Jell' Editor .................... .Alice Gromer SJ\fC IJ~).' /::(/itor............... Tc.mi Rutherford Ad Uesi!{n....... !JAnna ~larie furleigh, U.a 
Uickin!ooon 
Pboto}!.rapbt•,-.................... Paul Pahorc!'lky 

Student government's April Fool's joke is over. 
Everything they have done since the first ofApril has been nullified. It is now all a joke because ofWednesday morning's Judicial Council ruling, regarding the 1984­85 government's extension of its terms. 
The 1984·85 Student Senate unconstitutionally ex· tended its term, so everything they have done since April I has been erased. 
Today the 1985-86 government should be operating the way it was elected to. However, because of the pre­vious senate's actions, student government probably will have less respect from the students than ever before. 
Students have shown great apathy toward their seemingly ineffective elected leaders for a long time. The powers and workings ofstudent government have been things that students have generally known little about. Because of the few powers given to student gov­ernment by the administration, student government seemingly has done little. 
Yes, they have put in lights on the Stepan Courts 

and given us an alternative tee's changes in the consti­place to buy school supplies, tution, why did he have the but only after hassles with extension declared uncon­the Notre Dame administra­stitutional? If he did not sup­tion. The administration al­port the committee's ways has had the power to changes, why didn't he say stop student government. something immediately? 
All of this leads to student Healy also may have apathy toward their govern­shown good political in­ment. sight. He may have realized 
The way for government that the restructured consti­to be strong and effective tution was going to do more while working within the harm to student govern­parameters set by the ad· ment than good, so he ministration is simple: work prevented it from taking ef­within the parameters set by fect. 
the administration. Govern­ment should get a solid un­derstanding of what it can and cannot do. Through this understanding of its own position, it could reach out where it has power rather than trying to crash through brick walls every time it wanted to do something. 
To gain the respect of students. student government 
must show that it has the means to get things done. 
What we have seen in the last two months will only 
make Student Body President Bill Healy's new job 
harder. He not only will have to do what we elected him 
to do, but also will have to build student government's 
credibility as well. , 

\X'hat we have seen in the last two months from stu­dent government is unconstitutional rule-breaking and internal struggle. 
First there was the election scandal. In the weekend before the election, no one was sure how many tickets actually were in the race. In the end, by bending the rules, a ticket was allowed to run after committing se­vere rule violations. 

John Mennell 
Production Manager 

After spring break, the rules were again violated to extend the senate terms in order to restructure student government. The result was a waste ofeight days while . the government operated apart from the constitution. Again the rules were broken and nothing was accom­plished. 
Healy has shown us that he is either prudent or wishy-washy. He was on the committee that was trying to restructure the government. He then turned his back on that committee and had their work nullified by get­ting the term extension declared unconstitutional. If he supported the commit­
Hopefully he · showed 
good insight. Nevertheless, Healy still has a lot of work to do to gain student sup­port. and more importantly, their respect. 
What he has to do now is show us that student gov· ernment can actually do something. and do it well. It b possible. Anywhere there are ,>bstades, such as the ad· ministration's power, there arc legitimate ways to get around them. 
Now ir is time for the government to get down to the business of government. lbey were elected by the stu· dents to work for the studenb -not to bicker among themselves. Restructuring should be dropped, and progress should bt.· started. 
The views expressed in the Inside column 
are the views of the author, and do not neces­
sarily reflect the views of the editorial board 
or staff. 


AMERICAN 

CANCER 
SOCIETY~ 

Show ND or SMC student orstaffID and get a 10% discount 
18061 State Road 23 Near Ironwood ARMIDA KOBEK South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 277·2870 
............................. 


ClubsI Organizations 
Now is the time for aU ClubsI Organizations to: 
1. 
Registerfor the 85-86 Academic Year 

2. 
Request Student Activity funding 

3. 
Apply for a FootbaU concession stand 


All forms are available in the Student Activi­ties Office, 1st floor of LaFortune. Deadline 
is Monday~ April 15~ 1985.
............................. 


The Observer Thursday, Aprilll, 1985-page 3 


Justice minor receives trial at Saint Mary's 


l
admits that there were problems at Hooks also spoke against Reagan's 
SAVE ON CONTACT LENSES! 

continuedfrom page 1 one time, they claim they have all policy in South Africa, saying, "We 1
,

before and therefore ought to reach the problems solved," said Hooks, must stop 'constructive engage­
higher," he said. himselfa lawyer and former criminal ment' and force South Africa to enter 1
DAILY WEAR EXTENDED WEAR
$99 
~
SOFT LENSES SOFT LENSES 

An animated speaker, Hooks was court judge_ He then cited statistics, the 20th century or leave them out ,
Offer includes triel111111aring plan. Examination &care kit not included. 

interrupted many times by applause such as "only two percent of all ofit." 
Offer good on initial pair only w/Vjllage Optical prescription. 

as he outlined the history ofthe civil lawyers are black," to illustrate the Affirmative action, he said, was 
Expires 5/11 VIllage Op.t1cal 

rights struggle in the United States disparity that he believes still exists. "designed to open doors which had 
and explained the problems still Hooks refuted the argument that been closed. Those who closed the 
facing minorities in America. "I'd affirmative action gives unqualified doors must open the doors." The 
~--------------------------­
1 25% off 

like to remind President Reagan," he people a better chance than NAACP, he said, was sending a said, "the NAACP is two years older qualified people by humorously message from the black, women, and
all sunglasses 

than he is and will be around a lot noting that in his time on the bench, all minorities to white men: "Not longer." "It seemed that 80 percent of all 'stand back,' but 'move over because
-Bausch & Lomb 

Founded in 1909, one year after lawyc:;rs were incompetent." But, he we're going to sit down beside you.'
-Ray Ban 

half the black population of added more seriously, "No one " -Logo Paris, etc. 
Springfield, Ill., was forced to leave raised the question of qualification In addition to his other ac­Expires 5/11 
town in the wake of race riots, the when they admitted these white law complishments, Hooks, an ordained 
NAACP was described by Hooks as students." Baptist Minister from Memphis,


1--------------------------­

an organization dedicated to "the In response to Clarence Tenn., has served as chairman of the
I 

I SAVE ON EYEGLASSES 

elimination of racism and sexism." Pendleton, chairman of the Civil Federal Communications Commis­
Now, he said, the NAACP is "the Rights Commission, who had stated sion and is a member ofthe boards of
I I 

world's largest civil rights organiza­that Hooks and other black leaders directors of the Public Broadcasting 
tion," with over 400,000 members were "feeding black folk political Corporation and the League of Wo­
I 20% 1st complete pair of 

in 2200 chapters. kool-aid," Hooks angrily noted, "If men Voters. I prescription eyeglasses 
I 

When the NAACP was founded, our record to make America better The lecture was part of the Black
off 

Hooks said, "The situation in this for all folk doesn't speak for itself, we Cultural Arts Festival and was co­
I 
I 

country for blacks was almost as bad might as well be dropped into the sponsored by the Student Union Ac­
as slavery." He warned of the sea." tivities Board Committee on Ideas 
dangers of "repeating the mistakes The mention of Pendleton's name and Issues. 
I 

By KIMBERLY TRENNER 
StaffReporter 
Justice will be on trial at Saint Mary's when the College institutes a new minor in justice studies begin­ning next semester. 
The new minor was prompted by the desire among students and fac­ulty to incorporate issues relating to justice into an area ofstudies, accor­ding to Esmee Bellalta, justice edu­cation coordinator. "We wanted to get justice issues into the discipli­nary structure," she said. 
Belial ta believes there is a real in­terest among students for the program. "Their interest is one of the realities of the whole program," she said. 
"The program was designed for the needs and the interests of the students and faculty. It is an inside job, not something we just sort of slapped off." 
Justice education is an inherent part of the philosophy of Saint Mary's, according to Bellalta. 
From the founding ofSaint Mary's in the 1840s, the Sisters of the Holy Cross were committed to the idea that "Christian faith and social re­sponsibility should be fostered in responding to the exigencies ofcon­temporary society," she said. 
In 1979 the Justice Education 


Correction 
Because ofan editing error, the recipient of the Rector of the Year award from the Hall Presi­dents' Council was incorrectly stated in yesterday's Observer. The winner is Sister )oris Binder, first year rector of Pasquerilla East. 
6502 Grape Road 


Committee was formed by a small group ofstudents and faculty, and by 1 981 , the interest in peace and justice had increased enough to jus­tify hiring a coordinator of justice education. 
Courses in the curriculum are taught by professors from such de­partments as philosophy and religi­ous studies, and Campus Ministry has organized opportunities for stu­dents to gain experience by working in community groups. 
The justice studies minor is structured so as to involve the stu­dents with justice issues through the means of theory, experience, reflec­tion and commitment, and is de­signed to serve two groups of students. 
It is designed, first ofall, for those who wish to pursue an already exist­ing interest in justice issues. It is also designed to increase awareness and interest in justice issues among stu­

lbese members ofthe Saint Mary's Programming The boards also considered plans for next year's
dents who have not yet questioned 

Board and the Board ofGovernance discuss a pro­Little Sisters' Weekend. 
existing injustices nor been struck 

posed new loftpolicy at last night's joint meeting.
bytheir social significance. The program itself is flexible. Stu­dents are required to take two core 


Uncontested races mark officer elections 
courses, one introductory and ex­periential, and the other theoretical in nature. Both are three credit 

for posts in Saint Mary's residence halls courses. Three electives are also re­quired, and they are to be selected of resident feedback and communi­They also have St. Patrick's Day fes­
By ELLYN MASTAKO 

from a list of courses coming from cation with the residents. tivities planned. 
News Staff

different disciplines and approved as Janko concluded, "We want to get 
Lenore Massa and Maureen Erny's electives for this minor. These students from all classes involved in main goals as president and vice
Campaigning officially may begin

courses are also to be three credits the dorm because we realize LeMans president will be to strengthen the
Saturday at 5 p.m., but already Saint 

each, for a total of 1 5 credits for this is not just an upperclassman dorm unity of the dorm, and to strengthen
Mary's hall officer candidates haveminor. anymore." student participation in the dorm.
their goals for next year in sight. 

Bellalta said students will be able McCandless and Regina also will "We want to concentrate on quality
Although three of the five dorms to register for the minor during pre­have uncontested elections. The rather than quantity in events," said 
have uncontested elections, Mary

registration later this month. McCandless candidates are Halane Massa.
Lally, elections commissioner, is

Brochures concerning the minor Young and Mary Costa. They plan to promote dorm unity
hoping the turnout will be fairly

will be delivered to each student Mary Flynn, the Regina presiden­by having a "resident of the month,"
good, especially in the halls with

during the beginning of next week.  contested races. "We hope everyone will vote even though their hall is uncon­tested because there is still the op­tion of voting yes or no for the candidate," Lally said. There will be a "Meet the Candi­dates Night" Monday at 9 in the par­lor of Haggar College Center while the elections are scheduledfor Wed­nesday from 7 a.m. to 6 p,m. in Hag­gar's Berezny Game Room. The election for LeMans Hall pres­ident is uncontested. Lori Janko is the presidential candidate and Liz Meehan, the vice presidential cap­didate. Janko said, "We are disappointed that we are unopposed but we're running our campaign as if there were 10 tickets."  tial candidate, hopes to build its reputation. Flynn, a junior, added, "Regina's not just for freshmen anymore." Her running mate is Lisa Hagen. Her main goal is to make integra­tion a positive experience. She wants to plan activities with Notre Dame dorms, both men's and wo­men's. Flynn hopes to consolidate her hall council and "get down to basics. Instead of many commissioners doing little, we want a few doing a lot." Sophomores Jane Akalaitis and Felicia Stein will be opposing sop­homores Lenore Massa and Maureen Erny in the Holy Cross Hall elec­tions. Akalaitis said their main goal is unity within the dorm_  a monthly calendar and a newsletter. They would like to have a working relationship with other Saint Mary's dorms and Notre Dame dorms. "We want to generate involvement and enthusiasm," said Massa. Michaeleen Green and Patty Fal­lon will oppose Kristi Stathis and Christina Gatti in the Augusta Hall elections. According to Green, she and Fal­lon would like to "maintain the unity that makes Augusta the unique dorm that it is." They also would like to increase interaction between Augusta and the rest of the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame community. Stathis said she feels a need to make Augusta more involved in Saint Mary's life and the campus more aware ofAugusta.  
They plan to consolidate their hall  In  addition  to  the  traditional  "We want to plan events such as  
council by combining some of the  events planned, they would like to  clubhouse parties, an international  
hall commissioner positions. They  initiate a "togetherness night" at the  night, and continue the pre-football  
see the resident assistants and sec­ beginning of the school year for  game  pancake  breakfasts,"  said  
tion representatives as both a source  everyone to meet their neighbors.  Stathis.  
(219) 277-2400  HOOKS  ofhistory" through ignorance_ "While the Reagan administration  elicited groans from many members of the audience.  
$49 SPHERICAL SPHERICAL 


The Observer Thursday, April 11, 1985 -page 4 

U.S. arms dealers charged with illegal equipment export 
Aslloclated Press He said the indictment represents cials said. In the Soviet case, the sale raigned Tuesday. He said the indict­and Argentina began, a representa­the first time that racketeering was actually negotiated by federal ment supersedes one in March 1984 tive of the Argentine government 
NEW YORK -Four U.S. arms charges have been used by the gov­agents posing as Soviet operatives, against Berg arid Schwartz for the approached Schwartz to try to ob­dealers were indicted yesterday on ernment against suspected illegal Dearie said. shipment ofarms to Poland and they tain night vision devices and other charges they tried to illegally export arms dealers. Indicted were H. Leonard Berg, were free on bail after being ar­types ofarmament. more than S1.2 million in military Dearie said that between 1982 49, of the Bronx, owner of HLB Se­raigned on that previous indictment. According to the indictment, equipment, including rifles to and 1984 the four plotted illegal curity Electronics Ltd. of Manhattan; Dearie sa1d the goggles shipped to Schwartz took the Argentine agent Poland and night vision goggles to shipments of 500 automatic weap­Grimm DePanicis, 41, of Mount Argentina were paid for out of a Na­to HLB, where he met with Btrg and help Argentina against Britain in the ons and 100,000 rounds of ammuni­Dora, Fla., a vice president of HLB; tional Bank of Washington account Lisbona. Falklands war. · tion, worth more than 51 million, to Leon Lisbona, 60, of Queens, owner controlled by the Argentine Naval lllc indictment said that over the 
"The indictment gives us a rare Poland; 1,300 night vision goggles, of Global Research and Develop­Commission, an Argentine govern­next two months, HLB purcha~ed look inside the business ofdealing in worth more than S8 million, to Ar­ment Ltd.; and Solomon Schwartz, ment agency. more than 900 of the devices from illegal arms and military equip­gentina; 400 more of the goggles, 49, of Monsey, N.Y., owner ofTexas Export of mihtary equipment to Litton Industries of Tempe, Ariz., ment," U.S. attorney Raymond worth more than S3 million, to the Armament Advisors Inc. Argentina was prohibited "because and about 370 from Numax Dearie said at a news conference. Soviet Union via West Germany; and HLB also was indicted. Federal of Congress' concern about human Electronics Inc., ofHauppauge, N.Y. 
"These international operations 110 boxes of small arms and am­prosecutors said all the individuals rights violations" in that country, It resold them to the Argentines at have nothing to do with political muruuon, worth more than were associated with the corpora­said Dearie. a profit of about 51 million, the in­philosophy, national Interests or S.250,000, to Iraq. tion. The indictment alleged that in dictment said, and helped the Ar­ideology," he said. "It is a matter of Only the Argentine purchase None has been arrested, but April 1982, shortly after the gentine government export them in 
money." reached its destination, federal offi-Dearie said all four are to be ar-Falklands war between Great Britain violation of U.S. export laws. 
Salvadorian 
village begins 

to bury dead 
Associated Press 
SANTA CRUZ LOMA, El Salvador­Dusk slippt·d over the huts of this mountain village as the people sang hymns and buried their dead one hy ont:', the victims of a surprise attack by leftist rebds dressed as soldiers. 
It was tht.· second funeral Tuesday evening, and whilt:' the villagers sang, they could hear the sound of shovelfuls of earth dropping rhythmically onto the coffins of those buried after the first service. 
At least :\00 guerrillas came at dusk Monday, apparently looking fur Civil Defense Force volunteers. When they left the next morning, at least lO people wt'rt:' dead, most of them civilians and some of them wo­men and children. llle ground was littered with propaganda leaflets. 
There had been scattered guer­rilla activity in the past, hut stunned residents said the assault was unlike anything that had ever happened in Santa Cruz Lorna, .2') miles southeast ofSan Salvador_ 
Guerrillas have hit Civil Defense posts both to discourage volunteers and to get arms and other supplies, hut the strike~ generally have been sclt.·ctivc and rarely involvt:'d large numbers ofcivilians_ 
Civil Deft.·nse guards usually arc not as wdl trainl'd or armed as regu­lar soldiers, although some efforts have: bt·cnmadt· rt:'ccntly to upgrade their training and organization. 
'l11c rt.-sidcnt~ of Santa Cruz Lorna 

r said they thought tht• guerrillas were government troops until they saw rebd initiab on some of the uni­
,' r forms. 'Inc villagers said the Civil Dt:'fensc guards shot first. 
, r 
"They shoutt·d not to shoot, that~ they were on our side," said Jesus
, 
Valles, the local Civil Defense Force 

r 
commander. 

r 
"lllcy did it to confuse us and we stopped shooting. We thought they

~ 
were part ofan anti-insurgency unit.

r 
When they got closer, we saw that

r 
they were not soldiers." 
Residents said the rebels went from house to house, taking supposed Civil Defense volunteers out and shooting them or cutting their throats. '!bey said the guerrillas went to houses without hesitation, as if they had been chosen in ad­vance. 
Several people were missing and prt.·sumed kidnapped. 
Of the .20 confirmed dead, only seven were identified as Defense Force volunteers. Villagers said most of the others were killed by mortar shells lobbed into the string of huts that line a crude, dusty road. 
The village is administered by San­tiago Nonuako, a larger town about four miles down the mountain. That is where tht· truck took the bodies to he put into u>lllns. stopping to pick up otht·r dead lrom the attack <L~ it

i went along. 
I 

-

The Observer Thursday, April II, 1985-page 5 

An unidentified woman searches among the vic­guerillas dressed as soldiers shelled the village and tims of a guerilla attack on the village of Santa slashed the throats ofcivil defensemen, killing ap­Cruz Lorna, El Salvador, Tuesday. Residents said proximately 20people. Story on pagefour. 
New Mediterranean fruit flies bug Florida citrus crops in Miami area 
Associated Press 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. -Inspectors have discovered two more Mediter­ranean fruit flies, signaling an infesta­tion of the citrus menace in the Miami area, Florida Agriculture Commissioner Doyle Conner said yesterday. 
A female medfly was discovered in North Miami Feb. 25, prompting an intense trapping program which Conner expanded with the latest find. 
"llnfortunatclv, this latest find sig­nals that an infestation does exist in Miami," Conner said. "We had hoped that female medfly found last February was a lone invader, but ap­parently a population of this super pest is trying to get established." 
Conner said efforts were already under way to determine how far the destructive flies have spread. 
"The crucial step is now to deter­mine just where the core of the in­festation is," he said. "Medflies can fly two miles or more in search of protein or a mate. It is very impor­tant to intensify trapping in this new 
..gQoweh~ {ph aQQ oe(~agio~g 
Come in and Browse 
327 Lincolnway 232-3354 


area to see if other medflies are out there, and if they are, where." 
The most recent flies were trapped in a calamondin tree, a mini­ature citrus variety, about two miles southeast of Opa-locka Airport near Miami. 
The two flies appeared to have recently emerged from the pupal or non-feeding, worm stage, said Howard Weems, an entomologist with the Division of Plant Industry. 
Weems confirmed that the specimens were male medflies Tues­day night at the division's lab in Gainesville. 

Congressmen meet Soviet leader 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -Mikhail Gorbachev spent nearly four hours with an American congressional delegation yesterday, twice the usual time al­lotted, and said it was time U.S.­Soviet relations emerged from a dangerous "ice age." 
The time has come for talking, the Soviet leader said, and one of the Americans predicted he would be a "very formidable adversary" in a summit with President Reagan. 
Member~ of the tirst U.S. delega­tion to m... .:t Gorbachev since the fu­neral of Konstantin Chernenko, whom he replaced March I I, said they brought the new leader a letter from Reagan. They would not dis­cuss its contents. 
The congressmen said Gorbachev reaffirmed his interest in a summit, but did not say when it might be pos­sible. 
On Sunday, Gorbachev said the Soviet Union was freezing deploy­ment of medium-range nuclear missiles in Europe until November. The White House said the an­nouncement was a public relations move. 
Tass, the official news agency, 

Slvedish man gets new artificial heart 
Associated Press 
STOCKHOLM, Sweden -Doctors said yesterday the fourth man to receive a permanent artificial heart was doing "surprisingly well" yes­terday after the implant three days ago. 
But the patient's doctors refused to identify him or comment on reports that he was 53-year-old Leif Stenberg, a defendant in a tax eva­sion trial who came to be known in Sweden's tabloids as "Mr. X." 
"For the time being we are very content with his condition," said Dr. Bjarne Semb of Stockholm's Karolinska Hospital. Semb led the 12-member team that on Sunday performed the first permanent artifi­cial heart implant outside the United States. 
The patient, identified by the hospital only as a Swede in his mid­50s, was "mostly resting," according to Semb. He said the patient was talking and taking liquids and light food and characterized him as recuperating "surprisingly well." 
Reports about the identity of the patient overshadowed the medical aspects of the case. And there was also speculation that a recipient of an artificial heart might be consid­ered legally dead under Swedish law and thus immune from prosecution. 
Judge Birgitta Engvall, who is to hear the case against Stenberg, refused to comment. But chiefpros­ecutor Magnus Sjoberg said "the op­eration changes nothing in the judicial sense." 
Semb would not be drawn into the issue at a yesterday's news con­ference. "We had an agreement (to protect the patient's anonymity)," he explained, then asked reporters: "from now on, please show some common consideration towards this run-down human being." 
Dr. Robert Jarvik, inventor of the metal and plastic Jarvik-7 heart im­planted in the patient, said he was "very pleased" with the operation. Jarvik, who observed the surgery, told a news conference, "The pa­tient is in very good spirits and we've learned a lot here." 
.Jarvik said the Symbion Corp., which manufactures the artificial heart he invented, donated the SIS,SOO .Jarvik-7 and the special equipment used at Karolinska in the operation. 
As part owner ofthe company,Jar­vik said he has turned down requests for mechanical hearts from some 
U.S. hospitals when he felt they lacked experience for an artificial heart program. 
Jarvik, 38, stressed that artificial heart implantation was still "an ex­perimental program." 
"It may have a very bright future, it may have no future at all. We'll just have to wait and see," he said. 
Jarvik said he expected hospitals in the United States and elsewhere to make more artificial heart im­plants during 1985. He said the next probably will be at Humana Hospital in Louisville, Ky., where Dr. William DeVries performed the world's second and third implants. 
DeVries was at the University of Utah clinic when he made the first permanent artificial heart implant, on Barney Clark in December 1982. 

Mexican police nab top narcotics dealer 
quoted Gorbachev as telling the O'Neill said the meeting lasted delegation: three hours and 43 minutes, which 
"The time is such now that people is nearly double the time Kremlin shaping the policy of the two visitors usually gcL lts length under­countries should by all means con­scored the emphasis the new leader­
verse with one another. The world ship is putting on U.S.-Soviet situation is disquieting, evendanger­relations. ous, and a kind of ice age is being The Soviet press reported Gor­observed in relations between the bachev's statement on arms control 
U.S.S.R. and the United States. At the day the delegation arrived, and least this was so until the most Tass said yesterday that Foreign Min­recent time." ister Andrei Gromyko and George 
House Speaker Thomas "Tip" Shultz, the American secretary of O'Neill told a news conference the state, would meet in Vienna May 14. meeting covered arms control, Both will be there for ceremonies human rights, trade, regional issues marking the return of Austria's and cultural exchange. sovereignty in 1955. 
"From our talks, it is apparent that State television broadcasted a real opportunities for expanded lengthy report on the meeting be­trade and cultural contacts exist." tween Gorbachev, 54, and the con­Gorbachev received O'Neill, a gressmen, including a videotape of 
Democrat from Massachussctts; the preliminaries. House Republican leader Robert 
Michel of Illinois; Dan Ros-Asked about the nuclear-freeze tenkowski, D-Ill., and Silvio Conte, statement, O'Neill said, "I like to R-Mass. believe (Gorbachev) was speaking 
They met in the Communist Party his mind, his heart and his feeling for chiefs private quarters on the third world peace. I don't want to look at floor of the huge yellow office build-it as propaganda." 
,

ing just inside the Kremlin wall adja-Michel said Gorbachev men-cent to Red Square. tioned the cool White House 
The four are the senior members response, and "his characterization of a 13-man House delegation visit-was that we rejected his proposal ing the Soviet Union. out ofhand." 
Associated Press 
MEXICO CITY-Mexican police arrested the man they call the na­tion's leading narcotics dealer and were questioning him yesterday. 
Ernesto Fonseca, known as "Don Neto," and 23 other people were ar­rested Tuesday in the Pacific resort of Puerto Vallarta. The Attorney General's Office said Fonseca is con­sidered the nation's drug overlord and leader of La Familia-The Family -the group that runs the Mexican drug trade. 
The arrests came as Rafael Caro Quintero, arrested in Costa Rica last week as a prime suspect in the kidnap-slaying of an American nar­cotics agent, appeared before a federal judge on a variety of drug charges. 

Quintero said he was tortured and forced to sign a confession. He did not admit to kidnapping or murder in his statements, part of a court record that now reaches 4,000 pages. 
Enrique Camarena Salazar of the 
U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency and a Mexican pilot who worked with him were kidnapped separately Feb. 7 in Guadalajara. Their badly beaten bodies were found March 5 in plas­tic bags on a ranch 60 miles sout­heast of the city. 
The Attorney' General's Office said Fonseca, 60, was brought to the capital Tuesday night. Under Mexican law, police may hold a per­son for up to 72 hours before bring­ing them before a judge. 
lhe government newspaper El Nacional reported yesterday that authorities found an arsenal ofhigh­powered weapons when they ar­rested Fonseca. 

The Observer Thursday, April 11, 1985 -page 6 


'Living abortion' survives despite rejection by doctor 
Associated Press "If that's its weight, we would large public hospital in nearby have taken it," Henderson said yes­Macon, because it did not have the 
AUGUSTA, Ga. -A doctor who terday. But he said his policy against facilities necessary to keep the child, refused to treat a premature baby accepting infants weighing less than he said. because he considered her a "living 500 grams will not be changed. Weinstein said he disagreed with abortion" when told she weighed 
Henderson's decisiun. "Most of just one pound said yesterday he Henderson had said Tuesday he these babies don't live. But some of would have accepted her had he would not accept "babies that are them do. This is not an abortion. known her actual weight was closer living abortions" unless they are lbis is a living baby." 
to two pounds. born at the Medical Center. "The But Peter Solomon, chairman of Dr. Ken Henderson, director of chances for survival arc remote, less the board of the of the Macon-Bibb the neonatal unit at the Medical Cen­
than one in I00," he said. County Hospital Authority, said he 
ter of Central Georgia in Maco!l, Doctors at Peach County said the had faith in Henderson's decision. refused to admit the infant Tuesday infant was born about I :30 p.m. because of his policy against accept­Tuesday after her mother went into "We're very concerned about 
ing infants weighing less than 500 natural, premature labor. this," he said. "It's a very bad thing to grams, approximately I. I pounds. The child was dubbed "Baby have happen. (But) clearly as the 
The girl, born 16 weeks Cleveland" because of her mother's hospital authority, we have to leave prematurely at Peach County Hospi­surname, but hospital officials did some decisions to the doctors in­tal in Fort Valley, was taken instead not identify the mother at her re­volved in a case, and the doctor was 
to the Medical College ofGeorgia at quest. convinced he could not treat this pa­Augusta, where she was in critical Dr. Michael Weinstein, staff tient." but stable condition yesterday. pediatrician at the Peach County Henderson said he has treated 
Henderson said he refused to ad­hospital, said doctors there were ~,800 infants in I 0 years at the mit the infant because doctors at able to give only an estimate of the Macon hospital and none who Peach County had estimated her child's weight because they didn't weighed less than 600 grams 
weight to be about one pound. want to remove the baby's blanket survived. He added that he believed When she was weighed after arriv­and life-support systems to take a it was wrong to accept a such a small ing in Augusta, doctors found her ac­more accurate reading. baby and thus communicate to her tual weight to be 760 grams, or one The Peach County hospital sought parents and the public that the child and two-thirds pounds. help from the Medical Center, a could live. 
Engineering, Business profs agree on curriculum proposal 
By CINDY RAUCKHORST College Business Administration, As­graduates in his study had taken a Raymond said the problem of Notre Dame follows the guidelines Copy Editor sociate Dean Vincent Raymond single history course, and the rest professionalism definitely exists. He of the American Association of Col­agreed that the proposal is a good had taken none. said Notre Dame's commitment to legiate Schools of Business, which Some say that engineering stu­one. "In this country as a whole, most liberal education has allowed it to sets 40 percent ofthe curriculum for dents cannot write. Others say that Raymond said the additional se­college graduates are historically il­cope effectively with this national liberal arts courses, 40 percent for business students are more con­mester of history or social science literate, and Notre Dame is not an problem. business courses, and the remaining 
cerned about getting a job than get­ concurs with the college's goal ofal­ exception," he said.  
ting an education.  lowing students to obtain a strong  Carberry said he sent the proposal  
Whether or not the charges are  liberal education, while gaining firm  to the curriculum committee for  
true, the colleges ofengineering and  business knowledge at the same  consideration. "The Engineering  
business administration at Notre  time.  College Council was in favor of that  
Dame have agreed for some time  Carberry, in addition to express­ proposition, but they can't dictate  
that something more is needed in  ing support for the curriculum com­ what the rest of the colleges should  
the liberal education of their stu­ mittee's progress, has proposed his  do. What we're asking now is, what  
dents.  own suggestion to address the prob­ are the rest of you going to do?" he  
So last year when the University  lem of"cultural amnesia."  said.  
Curriculum Committee proposed  His proposal, which he said has  Carberry said students' overt con­ 
an additional course in history or so­ already been adopted by the College  cern for their careers has led to the  
cial science, the recommendation  of Engineering, is a two semester in­ decline of liberal arts education for  
drew favorable responses from the  terdisciplinary core course, de­ the student body at Notre Dame.  
halls ofFitzpatrick and Hayes-Healy.  signed to "address the historical,  "Schools are so concerned with  
James Carberry, professor of  literary, political and artistic  producing the best accountants or  
chemical engineering, praised the  developments which mark our  the best pre-meds that they forget  
actions ofthe University Curriculum  civilization's evolution."  about the purpose ofeducation," he  
Committee, calling the change "a  For several years, Carberry moni­ said. "If we took that attitude we  
necessary step toward reversing the  tored the nature of courses in his­ would probably give the minimum  
tide of cultural amnesia which  tory taken by engineering students,  liberal arts content that the accredit­ 
threatens our age."  and found the results "appalling."  ing agencies demand, which is 16  
And from across the quad at the  Only two percent ofthe Notre Dame  hours. Can you believe that?"  


LIBERAL  plicitly to take a history course would place an unacceptable bur­den on the history department. An  unacceptable load if there was a re­quired course in history is very dis­couraging.  
continuedfrom page I  additional  consideration  involved  "If the  committee  felt  strongly  
the  problem  of students  coming  enough that a history course should  
graduates had taken two courses in  from  different  educational  back­ be required for the benefit of all stu­ 
either history or social science; 94  grounds in  history and social sci­ dents,  steps  should  be  taken  to  
percent  had  taken  two  or  more  ence.  enable  the  history department  to  
courses  in social science; and  16  A further  consideration  by  the  handle such a load in an acceptable  
percent of the class had graduated  committee  was  the importance of  fashion," he said.  
without a single course in history. In its final report, which will be  knowledge in a variety of social sci­ence fields.  Anne Marie Finch, president of the Arts and Letters Student Advi­ 
submitted to the Academic Council  John Van Engen, acting chairman  sory Council, thinks the committee  
for a vote on Monday, the curricu­ of the history department, said the  made many sound arguments for an  
lum committee examined the prob­ effects of the new proposal would  explicit  history  requirement,  but  
r r r r  lem of students graduating without having taken a single course in his­tory. "The existing trade-off be­tween history and social science was considered unacceptable by col­leagues in both these areas," the report said. "A general lack of historical per­ not be substantial. "The change will not noticeably alter the percentages ofstudents taking history, but it will bring some students into history. Students who don't want to take his­tory still won't," he said. Van Engen favors adding an extra requirement in history. He con­ then failed to carry through. "Requiring an additional semester of either history or social science doesn't solve the problem; it's merely a weak substitute," Finch said. "A history requirement is essen­tial. Everybody can benefit from his­ 
spective and  a  sense  of historical  siders history an essential element of  torical  perspective.  Merely  
continuity among undergraduate students was lamented by several  a complete liberal arts education. "Students need to be more histori­ recommending that students take history is not going to be very effec­ 
members of the committee. Senti­ cally literate," he said.  tive," she said.  
ment on the committee was rather  Although student representatives  
strong that a formal course in history  support the proposed change, some  Overall,  however,  most  have  
be  required  of all  students,"  the  arc critical of the arguments used by  responded  favorably  to  the  pro­ 
report said.  the committee in formulating the  posed change. "I think the changes  
However,  the proposed change  policy.  are taking a step in the right direc­ 
still will allow the student to choose  According to Bruce Lohman, aca­ tion, and will probably increase the  
between history and social science.  demic commissioner ofstudent gov­ number of students taking history,"  
According  to  the  committee's  ernment, "The argument that  the  said Samuel Shapiro, associate pro­ 
report,  requiring  all  students  ex- history department would have an  fessor of history.  

He said the business curriculum at 20 percent for either. 
Attention Pre-Law Students 
The Pre-Law Society Proudly Presents••• 
'The Law School Experience' (a movie on Law student perspectives before, during, and after Law school) 
Where: CCE Basement When: 7 pm, Thursday, April 11th Price: FREE! 


•

a un1que opportunity for 
Civil Engineers 
For you and the world itself. As a Peace Corps volun­teer, you can put your degree to work at a challeng­ing. demanding and unique opportunity. You'll be meetin~ new people, learning a new language, ex­periencong a new culture and 11aining a whofe new outlook. And while you're buildrng your future, you'll h!!lp people in developing countries plan, design, and construct roads, buildings, sanitation systems, dams, bridges, canals or other structures which are critical for meeting their economic needs. 
Apply NOW for summer openings! Pick up application in your Placement Office, or call 
1~21-3670 


~-----------------­
Thursday, Aprilll, 1985-page 7
The Observer 
Cholera epidemic hits African refugee camp 
Associated Press 36 new cases of the disease and 20 deaths were reported at the Gannet 
NAIROBI, Kenya -The cholera refugee camp near Hargeisa in epidemic that began two weeks ago northwestern Somalia on Monday. at a camp for Ethiopian refugees in The new deaths would raise the northwestern Somalia has taken total to 1,521 by Monday. more than 1,520 lives, according to The Gannet camp, set up under official radio reports. the auspices of the United Nations 
Surrounding settlements have High Commissioner for Refugees, also been hit by the disease and the accommodates about 45,000 Et­Somali government has reported les­hiopians who have fled famine and ser outbreaks at four other refugee civil war in their country. Some have camps. also told U.N. offis:ials they left be­
Last week, the International Com­cause of possible conscription into mittee of the Red Cross in Geneva the army and religious persecution said as many as 300,000 people were by Ethiopia's Marxist government. in danger ofcontracting the disease -In a separate statement, the radio a highly infectious bacterial disease announced that Abdi Mohammed that is spread through contaminated Tarrah, chairman of the National water. Refugee Commission, met over the 
The official Radio Mogadishu, weekend with representatives of in­quoting statements from the Somali ternational aid groups to appeal for Health Ministry, said in a broadcast more help in coping with the monitored in Nairobi Tuesday that cholera epidemic. 
Sudanese oust official 
1 
APPhoto 
~ 

Associated Press junta a week to turn the government over to civilians, indicating he ~ LarryRosemblum ofBoston reactsglumlyaftera apparently eroded a section ofroadway where his KHARTOUM, Sudan -The new would suspend fighting for that per­1
,

water main break in the city's old leather district car, at left, and another were parked. military regime on Tuesday dis­iod, but the time limit appeared un­
,

missed the nation's chiefjustice who realistic. 
1

is known as a strict interpreter ofthe Doctors and other professionals Islamic law imposed by ousted Pres­who shut down the tri-city capital 1 
~ 

Ident Gaafar Nimeiri. area with a five-day general strike ,
Wham backup musician stabs self 
Gen. Abdul-Rahman M.H. Swared­were back at work. People swarmed ,Associated Press APortuguese Embassy official was they gave a vigorous show full of dahab, who led the weekend coup in the streets of Khartoum, North , visiting the musician at a hospital modern-day songs," said the state­against Nimeiri, also accepted a peti­Khartoum and Omdurman and PEKING -A Portuguese backup late Tuesday, the sources said. run China News Service. "They sang tion from the judges' union seeking a shops and banks were open. 1 

musician for Britain's pop group Wham stars George Michael and joyfully." review of the "hastily passed laws." Wham stabbed himself aboard a Andrew Ridgeley were not aboard It mentioned their numbers "Club President Nimeiri decreed Is­Chinese plane, Portuguese and the plane, which was carrying the Tropicana," "Heartbeat," and "Wake lamic law, which carries such British sources said Tuesday. The advance crew and backup musicians Me Up Before You Go-Go," which penalties as amputating the hands of wound was not believed serious. for the concert in Canton tonight. was mistranslated in Chinese as thieves, in September 1983. 
The sources, who spoke on condi­Wham played to a sellout crowd "Wake Me Up Before You Leave." His action disturbed Sudan's tion they not be identified, said the Sunday night at the Peking Workers' The report said Michael and Western allies and dismayed many man ran into the plane's cockpit Gymnasium, the first big-name Ridgeley performed "with deafening Sudanese-moslem and non-Moslem before he was subdued. The plane foreign rock band to perform in backup music." alike. It also intensified the rebellion was en route from Peking to Canton China. It noted that a third of the 12,000 among Christians and animists in the on Monday night. It returned to the China's first official press review seats were occupied by foreign stu­south, where Moslems are in the Chinese capital where the uniden­called the concert trendy but dents, diplomats, journalists and minority. tified musician was taken to a hospi­deafeningly loud. other foreigners, many ofwhom got The leader ofa rebel army fighting tal, the sources said. "Under the glare ofdazzlin~ lights, up and danced. for autonomy in the south, gave the 
SENIOR MONTH REGISTRATION 
Apri I 1 0-12, 5-7pm Where: Ombud desk main floor LaFortune or in the LeMans Lobby 
Advance ticket sales available for: 
Rush Street Trip • Great America Trip • Weddingless Reception Golf Tourney Tivoli's Party SMCLuau 
OC Seniors may also pick up booklets. 
•Must purchase tickets at Registration only 

Notre Dame Avenue Apartments 
NOWRENTING FOR FALL 
Completely furnished, balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES 
(good deals for Summer Session) 
Office at 820 ND Ave  or call  
open Mon-Fri 3-6pm Sat ll-3pm  234-6647  

... and no legitimate speed reading course can promise that you'll finish novels faster than a speeding bullet! But you can increase your reading speed up to five times without sacrificing com­prehension. 
Our Breakthrough Rapid Reading program can help you read textbooks, mail, journals, novels-anything faster & more efficiently. If that sounds good to you, call us: 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. 
South Bend, IN 46637 
272-4135 
.....~1111111111 
Sttnley H Kaplan Edt.lcabOnal Cenlflr Ud 
Politicians and representatives of the professional unions were trying to fashion an interim government to serve until Swareddahab can fulfill his promise to deliver power to civilians. 
Agreement did not appear im­minent. 
The official Radio Omdurman gave no reason for the dismissal of Chief Justice Fuad al-Amin Abdul­Rahman, whom Nimeiri appointed Oct. I. 
Haitians no longer AIDS risk 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -The Centers for 
Disease Control has dropped Haitian 
immigrants from its list of groups 
that are at high risk of contracting 
AIDS because scientists could no 
longer justify including them on 
statistical grounds, an official said 
Tuesday. 
But Dr. Walter Dowdle, director 
of the CDC's Center for Infectious 
Diseases, said the change was not a 
result of political pressure and will 
not alter public health policy con­
cerning blood donations by 
Haitians. 
AIDS, acquired immune deficiency syndrome, is most com­mon among homosexual or bisexual men. But the CDC, which began in­vestigating the mysterious and often-fatal disease in 1981, also ini­tially identified Haitian immigrants, intravenous drug abusers and hemophiliacs as woups at high risk. 
The CDC had included all four groups in its weekly reports ofAIDS statistics. But as oflast week's report, Haitians are no longer included as a separate listing. 
Uowdle said Haitians will remain on the Public Health Service list of groups who should not be allowed to donate blood because of the dan­ger of transmitting the AIDS virus . That list, compiled in 1983, can be changed only by the health service, he said. 

~i~~~_()__l_._Jl__t____________________
Th-ur-sd-ay_,A_pr_n_Il_,l_98-5--pa-ge-8 
Hesburgh's commitment to blacks has weakened 
The 198'5 Black Cultural Arts Festival began on Feb. 3 with a Gospel Concert. lbe festival, which is a celebration of the heritage and tal· ents of the Negro race in general and those at Notre Oame in particular, began with a prayer and an address from a very special man known to all ofus. 
'Ibis man is revered among nations, espe­cially this one. His thouf.Vlts and words are as respected as those of E.F. Hutton. He has had more degret·s bestowed upon him than it 
Martin Rodgers 
guest column 
takes to boil water on a centigrad~: !><:ale. It has ev~:n been rumored that mere sif.Vlting of this individual carries with it blessings. 
In my hous~:hold, he is often regarded as more a myth or a lcg~:nd than a man: I assume for many others this is also the case. His reputation is impen·ablc. He has been the guest and host of presidents and other dig­nitaries. !lis audience is the world as is his sphere of inJlucnce. Next to the pope, he is probably the most widely recognized mem­ber of the clergy. 
Yet, it is to this renowned figure that I must now issue a stern challenge and offer con· structive criticism. 
"He" is Fr. "lbeodore Hesbur¢1. And on this particular nif.Vlt to officially open the B.C.A. Festival, where the title was "Pioneers: Looking Toward New Horizons," this great man's words fell far short of the mark. The words were old words. They were tired words, withered word~. words weakened and warped by repitition and, moreover, a lack of commitment. lbey were words wasted he­cause they were mere words -words focused primarily on ends and not means. I would even dare to say that the words were merely hypocritical rhetoric and, at least to myself (unintentionally, I am sure), insulting. 
What Fr. Hesbur¢1 said this night was that America owes much to the Negro people and that upon the shoulders of our bondaged forefathers this nation was built. He spoke ofa debt to the black man which must be repaid. He mentioned how proud he was of our people and especially those of us here at Notre Dame. He underscored the necessity of maintaining and fulfilling the goals and dreams of this people, such as those empha­sized in the Civil Rif.Vlts Movement in which he played a major role. 
All of what our beloved president stated in his address was. in one breath, true and accu­rate and, in another, it was false and insensible. Indeed, America is indebted to my race and can afford to and must pay some of the dividends. But what instruction Hesbur¢1 and many others need is that this debt to my people can never he repaid. At least thou¢1, amends can he made. Furthermore. I must ask Fr. Heshurgh how 

, 
one can maintain dreams without maintaining 
r commitment and effort. I must inquire also 
r how one may fulfill goals with all words and no deed. During the '60s, Hesbur¢1 was a prominent advocator ofCivil Rif.Vlts yet now his commit­ment to those hopes and dreams seems to have waned. "Ibis great priest and educator ap­pears to have lost faith, grown tired ofthe fi¢lt and grown tired of the struggle for progress. In his address that evening to the predominantly black assemblage, he encour­aged the continuation of commitment to blacks. Yet, quite hypocritically to my way of 
r 
Doonesbury 
thinking, of late he h~s shown no such com­mitment. He is perhaps living off of past reputations and past deeds or perhaps he does not even realize that his past dedications have become lost in a myriad of rhetoric. Perhaps he does not realize that his promises have been broken by the scourge of inactivity or, even worse, that he himself fallaciously sees no more need for constancy in this past struggle. 
lbis is especially evident at the University which he calls home. Here at Notre Dame there is now a crisis resulting from his and other top administration members' per­fidiousness. The recruitment oftalented black and other minority students and faculty is at the very best minimal and mediocre. The number of incoming black freshman is diminishing at epidemic proportions. "lbere are only 3'5 black students in the Class of 'H8 (accounting for only 2 percent) and estimates for the next class are also extremely low. 
'lbe number of faculty members of color is both embarrassing to the University (or at least it should be) and also insulting to our race. There are many qualified individuals who could attend or teach at Notre Dame but are not given the opportunity because the llniversity lack~ the commitment (for exam­ple, in financial aid) in comparison with so many other top schools. 
It is my contention that ifthe present trends continue here this will no longer be a "top institution." Are Georgetown with S.8 per­cent of its population black, the University of Pennsylvania with 4.9 percent, Brown with '5.3 percent, Cornell with 5.4 percent and other acclaimed schools whose black stu­dents' populations near ten percent that much better and more attractive in the eyes of prospective black students, or is it that Notre Dame is not concerned and is apathetic in regard to recruitment? Perhaps Fr. Hcsburgh, Fr. Tyson and the rest of the political hierarchy here wants conformity instead ofdi­versity at this Catholic institution. 
Another problem I perceive is that the ad­ministration, with its very minimal effort and interest in minority students, may actually believe that they are doing enough. Metap­horically phrased, that is like individuals who believe that in buying "We are the World," they have done their part for the sin ofpoverty and world hunger. Is not then, in regard to the degree of recruitment and subsequently di­versity, Notre Dame bowing to the worst enemy ofexcellence -mediocrity? 
A further problem with the recruitment process is that Notre Dame only puts forth the minimal effort out of self-interest. The num­ber of black scholarship athletes (accounting for approximately 15/ of total) is severely dis­proportionate to the number of non-athletes. Especially in the case of the non-athlete, upon matriculation, who is immediately "left at the (back) door" with the recruitment commit­ment forgotten and broken. There is no spe­cial assistance to the pressing needs (these problems I do not have time to touch upon in the scope ofthis editorial but among them are assimilation, the silent prejudice of some members ofthe payroll, a lack ofsocial life and academic assistance) of the minority student here at Notre Dame. lhis is bt~t reflected by the hif.Vler minority attrition rate. 
In the business ofshoppingfor a higher edu­cation last year, I found the recruitment process itself pales in relation to other smaller schools such as Colby College, Pomona-Pitzer and others. Indeed the commitment of these schools was so great that, if I had not been born and raised thinking that God actually did make Notre Dame number one, I probably would not have come here. Fr. Hesburgh and other members of the administration · where is your commitment or arc we onlv here for a "show" of diversification, to bring glory and honor to the athletic programs and to con­tinue government funding? 


I firmly believe that, unintentionally, the ad­ministration has just lost sight of its commitment in light ofother seemingly more important issues, that the goals and dreams of the past have been clouded and that there is no resolve to continue past "battles" even thou¢1 the war has not been won. Amends are no longer being attempted, and the unpayable debt remembered in words has been forgot­ten in deeds. lbese are problems which may easily be corrected with patience, a change of attitude and of heart and a renewed dedica­tion. 
In conclusion, in his address to open the 198S Festival, Fr. Hcsbur¢1 proclaimed how amazed he was at the vitality and spirit of the black man and his unbelievable ability to overcome transgressions. Fr. Hcsburgh and administration members,! beseech to halt this University's subtle yet real transgr~ssions and 
travesties agamst us and, in addition, to pool together its resources to make Notre Dame a place minority students want to attend and where they will want to stay. Finally, Fr. Hes­burgh also highlighted in his speech how awesome he found the Negro spiritual. Saying that in light of all the Negro's problems and difficulties and in lif.Vlt of both obvious and silent prejudice, we have not only endured discrimination and other tribulations but have also continued singing and praising God. 
It seems to me that, in the '60s, Hesburgh and many others in the nation sang with us, exalting each other and making mutual prog· ress. But now, in the mid-'80s, we once more sing alone. In hope of making this great l!ni· versity even better, the challenge I issue to Fr. Hesburgh for this day and for the future is to continue his past commitments in actions and not in men: words, to come sing with my people once more and to walk hand in hand with us again as we advance ever onward "looking for new horizons." 
Martin Rodgers is a freshman at Notre Dame. 
Spending holidays with 
families of ND friends 
Breaks are great times to get away from Notre Dame. Fall and spring breaks, because of the ten or more days offreedom, allow for extended and often exotic travel. Thanksgiv­ing and Easter however, usually compel a per­son into taking a break closer to Notre Dame. 
Being from California and not being able to afford the expense ofgoing home lor only four days, I have spent the past four Easters and Thanksgivings away from home. Althou¢1 I 
Mark Boennighausen gravity is a myth 
have missed being home on these family holidays, my travels to friends' homes have been quite enjoyable. These trips to different states and environments have shown me the remarkable similarities between the ways my family and my friends' families celebrate these holidays. 
lbe centerpiece of any Thanksgiving or Easter celebration is the holiday meal. Mass is a hif.Vlpoint of Easter, but my stomach always takes precedence over everything else. At these meals I have found the topics of con­versation to follow the same path I would find at home. Relatives tell embarra.~sing stories about parents, and humorous childhood events about a roommate are related by par­ents for the benefit of the out of town guest. Good Catholic jokes also seem ro flourish 
around the holiday table. 
"!be best conversation, though, is saved for the verbal battles which often rage between warring siblings. Older sisters attack table manners and the absence of a girlfriend, and the continually poor showing of the football team always receives some mention. Some of the dialogue I have witnessed rivals anything produced on the best "Saturday Nif.Vlt Live" skits. When I become the object of verbal at­
tack, I know I  am  fully accepted into the  
celebration.  
Garry Trudeau  


Another benefit ofgoing home with a friend for Easter or Thanksgiving is the insight it pro­vides. Meeting old high school friends and hearing stories from them often destroy care­fully constructed images. This Ea.~ter I joined an old roommate for a trip to his home. I had been to his house before but I had never had the chance to enjoy his hometown nightlife. Since we are both now of legal age, we decided to go out on Good Friday and have a good time. After calling up his old girlfriend to be our guide, my friend took me to a very in­teresting bar. 
At Notre Dame, this friend presents a very studious and responsible image. '!be bar did not correspond to that image. At the door I was asked for identification and a cover charge by a platinum blond dressed in a shocking red dress who was either a lesbian or a transvestite -I am still not sure. The entire bar was populated with dn assortment of un· typical characters. "!be dress of the nif.Vlt seemed to be courtesy ofthe Salvation Armv. 
In the back room the hand, enigmatically named Radio Cafe, sang hard-driving existen­tial songs. Their music commented on prob­lems of love and communication in the confused 80s. lbe lead singer was especially 
powerful as she displayed a vocalist style that explicitly relayed her frustrations with trying to become a well-adjusted modern women. 
All in all, the bar was a great experience, and it finally explained why this old roommate brought a Sex Pistols album to our room fresh­man year. 
Next Thanksgiving, I will t1nally be spend­ing the holiday with my family. As I look back on my long absence, I realize that these past years were bearable since I was able to .be with families who made me feel like I was celebrating at home. 
Mark Boennigbausen is a senior gm•ern­ment major and a regular Viewpoint colum­nist. 
Quote of the day 

"It is only with the heart that one can see rightly; what is essen­tial is invisible to the eye." 
-Antoine de Saint-Exupery 
VieWP-Oint Thursday, April II, 1985-page 9 
Choosing life's vocation requires much planning 
The quads are full of Domers. An Tostal is just around the corner. Bookstore Basketball has begun. Everyone is trying to wear shorts .. . and . . . oh yeah . . . finals are dosing in. Anyway, spring is finally here (or at least trying to be). 
As the end of my freshman year rapidly ap­proaches, I look back in wonder at all the 
Carol Brown 
that's life 
changes that have taken place this past year ­this first year of "leaving the nest"and being almost "on my own." I think of the friends I have made, the changes I have seen in myself and others-I have learned so much. It is truly difficult to believe that this has ALL occurred in such a short time. 
I think back to the fall of 1984 as we, the freshman, embarked upon our college careers. We found ourselves in the midst of a whole new world-an unknown world ofchal­lenge and excitement. We faced the universal feelings ofhomesickness, ofanxiety and ofun­certainty. But throughout the year and as a result of trial and error and many new experi­ences, we have, for the most part, conquered those feelings. We have finally found our place here at Notre Dame. We have made friends. Our lives no longer depend upon trusting the well-meaning advice of upperclassmen. We know how Notre Dame works. We know the 
MTV has marred image of future MS drives 
Dear Editor: 
For the last two months, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have been involved in the noble cause of raising money for MS. MTV sponsored the campaign, Millions Against MS, which involved 12 colleges. As an incentive, it was decided to make the campaign into a competition, with the school which raised the most money per capita winning a free con­
cert. This incentive definitely enhanced the generosity of the student body and the contri­butions to the MS drive. 
From the beginning, it was intimated, if not directly stated, that a "top five" act would per­form at the concert. With that idea in mind, many students pondered the possibility of Bruce Springsteen or even U2 performing the score. This is finally our school. We are now Domers. 
But now, now that we have finally "made it through," we must climb another mountain, a higher mountain. Now we are all pressed to decide what our majors are going to be. More directly, we are all faced with the question: "What am I going to do with the rest of my life?" Wow! Now that really makes you step back and think. Seriously, what are you going to do for the rest ofyour life? Do you know? 
All ofour lives, from the time we were kids, we have been asked at least a million times, "What do you want to be when you grow up?" As little kids most of us were determined, or just dreaming, when we enthusiastically blurted out, "an astronaut!", "a movie-star!" or "a doctor!" Ofcourse, our parents were really lucky when we looked up to them and said, "I want to be just like you, Mom and Dad." That was when we first showed promise of being true brown-nosers. 
Later, as we moved upward and onward into our high school years, or our "adolescence" as so many parents label it, our enthusiasm dwindled when we were asked that same question: "What do you want to be when you grow up?" Ourfaces were no longer so eager and confident; rather, they were per­plexed and contemplative. Most of us had ab· solutely no due as to what we wanted to be "when we grew up." More of us probably did not even think about it. 
I for one, can say that I worried more about what I was going to wear to the Senior Prom than what I was going to be when I grew up. I would worry about that later. That was too far ahead in the future to worry about now. And those few of us who "knew" what we wanted to be probably did not know at all. How could we? 

But now we can no longer put off thinking about what we want to be. The future no longer looms far off in some distant world. The future -my future -your future -is just around the corner. We are deciding it now. So how do we -we who have just begun to sample merely a few of the almost limitless directions we could take in life -how do we even begin to decide our futures? 
Well, possibly the best solution would be to use these four years at college to experience as much as possible; to learn as much as we can about all the different things that interest us. And then, after we have been exposed to a great variety of interests, we could choose with some certainty what we really want to do with our lives. Unfortunately, for most of us, this is a very unrealistic solution. We neither can afford nor have the desire to spend that much time in school. So, here we are again, right back where we started. We are here, and we must decide what we want to do with our lives. 
How do you decide what you want to be · 
what you want to do with your life? Well, P.ick­
ing the right major is due partly to luck and 
partly to the process of elimination, but the 
key to picking the right major is knowing 
yourself. This may seem pretty simple. We all 
think we know ourselves pretty well -after all, 
who could know us better? But, actually, it 
free concert at their school. No one ever men· tioned Tommy Shaw. Then again, maybe I was in the bathroon when the mad frenzy to have Tommy Shaw in concert erupted. 
I fail to grasp the underlying mentality that MTV employed in choosing Tommy Shaw as a reward. He does not represent the spirit of philanthropy and generosity inherent in the campaign. In fact, for most students, he does not represent anything. In choosing Tommy Shaw to do the concert, the generosity of the students of all the colleges is in no way diminished, but the idea of an incentive is completely lost. The MS drive could have been a total success if not for the concert fiasco which has all the class of the bait and switch advertising of a third-rate used car dealership. 
In effect, MTV has marred the future suc­cess of the MS campaign, instilling a feeling of skepticism. This will undercut the generosity ofstudents in the years to come. In the future, the prevailing attitude toward MTV· 

sponsored events will resound with the senti­ment "We won't get fooled again!" We don't want our MTV! 
Mike Collins Dillon Hall 
Government aid cuts will hurt many students 
Dear Editor: 

I am writing this letter in hopes that I might alert my fellow college students and the public at large to the budget proposals con­cerningfederal stY.dent aid funds. I realize that these may not affect everyone who is reading this, but it will affect about half of all college students and their families. 
The president has proposed a flat limit of S4000 on federal tuition aid to any one person for 1986. This may sound like a lot but, consid­ering that college can cost upwards of Sl5,000 per year, it is a mere drop in the bucket for some. Also proposed are income ceilings for eligibility which would prevent many current· recipients from obtaining grants and guaranteed student loans. 
It will be argued, though, that not everyone has the right to go to Harvard or Yale (which both provide excellent financial aid of their. own), or any one of the more prestigious uni­versities in this counrtry. This is true for aca­demic merit, but why should someone be deprived of attending the school he will be happiest in or that will best suit him or, for that matter, any college at all because offinan· cial poverty? Just because a person cannot af­ford aparticular college does not mean that he would not become a valuable part of that col­lege's student body or of society. 
One of the great aspects of this country is the fact that everyone has the opportunity to attend college whether rich orpoor, assuming that they graduate from high school in good standing. Ifcollege educations, or certain col­lege educations, were limited to only the 

Editorial Board 
Edltor·ln·Ch,ef Managmg Ed1tor News Ed1tor. News Ed1tor Samt Mary's Executive Ed1tor Sports Ed1 tor Accent Ed1tor . V1ewpomt Ed1tor Photography Ed1tor Copy Ch1el 

. Sarah E. Hamilton Amy Stephan Ke1th Harrison Jr. Dan McCullough Theresa Guanno Jeff Blumb Mary Healy Joe Murphy Peter C Laches Frank L1po 
takes a great deal of thinking to figure out what you really want in life. Ask yourselfwhat you like. What do you not like? Why do you like that? Why not? But most importantly, ask yourselfwhat makes you happy. 
Knowing what makes you happy now is a good indication of what will make you happy in the future. It is a lot easier to answer this question than answering the dreaded ques­tion about the rest of your life. Analyze your­self. And, above all, be honest with yourself. 
Do you really want to be a doctor? Is that what will make you happy in life? Or are you fooling yourself? Do you want to be a doctor because it sounds prestigious and because you think it will make your parents proud of you? Ask any parents, and I assure you they will say that nothing would make them more proud or more happy than to see their children happy in what they are doing. The only disappointment they could have would be in seeing their children miserable in the wrong career. The only truly successful per­son is the happy person. 
Do not lose sight of the fact that nothing is final. No one can lock you into a major but yourself. It is never too late to change. It is better to realize that you are in the wrong major and to switch, than to find yourself ten years down the road stuck in the wrong profession. My last word of advice is to go with your gut feeling. It is usually right. 
Carol Brown is a freshman at Notre Dame and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
P.O. BoxQ 
wealthy and comfortable, some of those who can afford it now would not have been so able as a result of their lack ofeducation. 
In the past few years Congress has not ac­cepted the first proposals for student aid cuts but, to ensure that everyone retains the right to attend college, I would suggest that every­one who reads this letter and holds the same views, cuts it out and mails it, or mails a letter of their own, to President Reagan or to their respective congressman. It may not provoke any radical changes in the opinions of our leaders, but it will surely alert them to the fact that there are people who are concerned and who disagree. 
DavidL. Peter Lexington, Virginia 

Bertino thanks those who helped during term 
Dear Editor: 
On behalf of Student Body Vice President Cathy David, Student Body Treasurer AI Nor­ras and myself, I would like to thank this year's Senate and cabinet for all the hard work they have put in and all the accomplishments they have made. No one has worked harder than they have. I'd also like to th;tnk those mem­bers who served on the CREST committee, who worked so hard and dedicated so much oftheir time in a sincere attempt to better stu­dent government. I hope the new administra­tion seriously considers the CREST proposal and all the input given by its members, in 
working out its own restructuring. 
Thanks also to the faculty, staff and adminis­tration for being so cooperative and sup­portive throughout our term, and a special thanks to the student body, for without their help and support nothingwould have beenac­complished. 
Rob Bertino Past Student Body President Notre Dame 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer 1s the mdependeri"t newpaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Satnt Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the poilctes of the admmtstratton of etther institution. The news is reported as accurately and as ObJeCtively as possible. Unstgned editorials represent the opinion of a ma,ortty of the Edttonal Board. Commentanes. letters and the Inside Column present the vtews of thetr authors. Column space is available to all members of the commun1ty and the free express1on of vary1ng Op1n1ons on campus. through letters. IS encouraged 
Department Managers 
Busmess Manager Dav1d Stephen1tch Advert1smg Manager . Anne Culligan Controller Bill H1ghducheck Systems Manager. Mark B. Johnson ProductiOn Manager John A Mennell 
Founded November 3, 1966 

Accent The traumas of the Emerald 
Violence no stranger to a Belfast family 
the one true faith." I was painfully 
reminded of how emotional the religious dimension of the Northern 
Lisa Marie Visingardi 
features staff writer 
T
Ireland conflict really is. heOvt·rseas Program brings Later that night, the eldest girl in '!he tragedy of religious in­stuc.knts into such a pleasant, the family took me to a city pub and tolerence and cultivated hatred cultivatnl socit:ty, it is easy to for­we made our way pa~t a burning among Christians is at the core of gl"l that just across the Irish Sea is car. What I would have considered the violence in Northern Ireland. the violence-ridden city ofBdfast "front page news" she saw as a "one Despite the reality of the numerous in Northern Ireland. column story," and I was reminded political and paramilitary groups, 
While l was in England during my we were in a city where violence differences seemed to point to only sophmorc year, l made an Irish had become almost commonplace. one significant division preventing friend, Marty, who wa~ related to In the pub we talked about her an end to the conflict: religion. hun~~:er striker Bobby Sands. It was family's involvement in the conflict As my train pulled out of the 
arranged that I would meet some of with the British. Her elder hrother station, I looked out the window to his rdatives in Bt:lfast during a had spent two-and-a-half years in see two small children playing in a travel recess there. Having studied the Long Kesh Prison before being field. A feeling ofsadness for them 
the Northern Ireland conflict in my exiled south to the Republic of came over me. Having been 
freshman seminar course, l was Ireland. Only recently had he exposed to the hatred, pain and both eager and reluctant to arrive in returned to County Antrim. bitterness present on both sides of the city. My new frit:nd's first cousin, the conflict, I could foresee their Upon entering Belfa~t I was Bobby Sands, had also been im­loss ofinnocence ... the violence 

r shocked by the number ofsecurity prisoned. His escape came through that probably will continue into 
r 
ched's by armed forces. I was death by starvation as a hunger their generation.

r 
searched not only before l could be striker. Wherever one's sympathies lie,' admitted to the city center, but '!be next night we drove up to or whatever reconciliation one may
r 
before entering any shops. After Ballycastle, Antrim, where I met her hope for, the immediate experience

r 
walking from check point to check eldest brother who had been im­of Belfast is one ofalmost un­point, I queued for a black taxi to prisoned. He spoke ofhow he had relieved futility.

~ take me to the Catholic section of become involved in the conflict 
r the city. almost as a child. Like many young Last December the televised 
, '!be taxi ride to West Belfast took boys in Belfast, he learned to fight movie "Children in the Crossfire" Above: the Sands family enjoys an early morning walk along the North Channel me by the Divis Street flats, down the British before he could under­portrayed the situation as hopeful, At right on top: The graffiti demonstrates Catholic sentiment toward British nr.rw•n• 
~ 
' Falls Road and through Anderson­stand what he was fighting for. As a but far from being resolved. The At right on bottom: A Belfast grade school is surrounded by a high fence with town. Walls and fences of the city young adult during the Civil Rights solution which was proposed in­is taken because ofits proximity to the troubled Falls Road. Below: one ofthe numen 
glared with graffiti: "BRJTS OUT! marches, he came to understand volved the integration ofCatholic 

which everyone must pass to enter and exit the city center. On ·bottom: a typical Irish 
Support the Hunger Strikers!" violence as the only means to and Protestant youths in a different 

erous buildings remaining after the bombings. At right: a map ofthe island. 
"IRA/PLO!" "H-BLOCK: the liberating his country of the British environment, namely the United 
dehumanizing factor!" If the words forces. States. 
do not speak enough of the hatred, He himself was physically and It is a small step on a lengthy 
anger and discontent with the mentally tortured in prison and journey toward unification ofthe British rule of Northern Ireland, locked in a small room alone for Christians in Northern Ireland,'but there are illustrations under the days. When the charges against him it may be the only answer since words showing bloodshed and could not be proven, he was none of the current solutions of violence toward British soldiers. released. violence and political intervention 
When l reached the home of I concluded my weekend in by the British have accomplished Marty's relatives I was warmly Belfast by attending the Easter their goals. 

f 
, 
welcomed with a glass of Bailey's Sunday service at the church of Rev. If it does work, in time I can only and asked to stay for dinner and the Ian R. K. Paisley where a fundamen­hope that my somber observations night. We spent the better part of talist preacher from Ohio warned will be confined to words on paper, 
the early evening getting to know the congregation against "religious experienced in a past that will 
r 
each other. deceptions" which seek to destroy never be repeated.

r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 



Thursday, April 11, 1985 -page 11 
sle 
ofNorthern Ireland. 
Northern Ireland. : This extra precaution fteck points through ge, one ofthe num-
Catholic population centers 
in Northern Ireland  
IJ  Over 50 percent of the population is Catholic  
f3  Between 25 and 50 percent of I he population is Catholic  
0  Less than 25 percent of the populalion is Catholic  
0  95 percent of the population is Catholic  


The Celtic legend -marred by conflict 
At the core of the tur01oil ­the politics of Northern Ireland  
Lisa Marie Visingardi features staff writer  
Despite its small size. Northern Ireland has more political organizations than any other Western society. }he underlying reason for this is that almost any organization can be political in nature, whether it be a football team, a folk song club, or a children's music group. There are two major group classifications: paramilitary and political. Of these, paramilitary groups in Ulster have existed longer, with their origins dating back to the 18th century following the religious wars between English and continental European troops. These groups, some public and some secret, have been involved in such actions as assassinations, rebellions, and street riots. The political groups can be categorized as either Protestant or Catholic. The few organizations which seek to unite the two religious groups ofpeople have suffered from weak electoral support. Some of the major Protestant political organizations which have existed in Northern Ireland are the Unionists, the Democratic Unionist Party, the Vanquard Unionist Party, and the Orange Order. The Ulster Unionist party translated the Protestant population majority into a Protestant majority in the Northern Irish Parlia­ment. This majority allowed the Unionists to win control over the government and consequently influence policies. The political wing of Rev. Ian R. K. Paisley's movement is known as the Democratic Unionist party. The DUP is distinguished by its advocation ofcloser integration with W estrninster. This includes achieving parity with Scotland and Wales by increasing Northern Ireland's representation in the British Parliament. Starting with a network ofcontacts throughout Northern Ireland, the Vanguard Unionist party is distinctive in two ways. First, the party seeks an independent Ulster, believing this to be the only acceptable means of maintaining the British heritage. And second, the party maintains open contact with Protestant paramilitary groups. The oldest continuously active political organization in Northern Ireland is the Orange Order. Since it is not organized as a political party per se it could be described more accurately as a pressure group. It is strongly against any ties between Northern Ireland and the Catholic-oriented Republic ofIreland. Its political philosophy espouses Loyalist views. Facing the problem of minority status in a state whose boundaries were originally established to permanently insure a Protestant majority, Catholic organizations have differed in their response. The three political groups which have held dominating positions are the Nationalist Party, the Social Democratic and Labour Party and the Official Wing of the Irish Republican Party. Reflecting the traditional hope ofa united Ireland, the Nationalist party offers little else. Its appealing label fails to compensate for its lack oforganization and ofa social program for an economically depressed state. Originating from the ex-civil rights activists, the Social Democratic and Labour.Party has recognized three short-term objectives: the abolition ofdiscrimination, public ownership of essential industries, and employment promotion by state­sponsored industries. In the long run it seeks socialism and Irish unity based upon the majority consent of the people of Northern Ireland. Unlike its well-known counterpart, the Provisional Wing ofthe IRA, the Official Wing receives les1' publicity. But the two wings agree on several issues: the removal of British troops from Ireland, legalization ofall forms of Republican political activity within Northern Ireland, and the eventual unification of the 32 counties of Ireland. The two groups' difference lies in their means ofaction. The Official Wing seeks results through political, not military, actions. Parties which have sought support across the sectarian divide have received little electoral support. These are considered Extreme Moderates since they denounce military actions and seek to unite Protestants and Catholics in political actions. Standing out is the Alliance Party, founded in the early 1970s, which appeals to the Unionist party by accepting union with Great Britain as being in the best interest of the people. Likewise it aligns itself with the SDLP by emphasizing antidiscrimination measures and participa­tion ofeveryone in the government. This approach combines the Protestants' concern with law and order with the Catholics' concern with religious equality. In addition to the numerous political groups, there are several paramilitary groups organized to achieve similar ideals but by a different. means. Despite their differing political views they share a common bond: their willingness to turn to illegal means to promote action. The methods have included bomb attacks, assassinations, shootings, and illegal fund-raising activities.  


Lisa Marie Visingardi 
features staff writer 

I 
t is impossible to understand the conflict in Northern Ireland with­out reaching into its past and seeing the history that has led to the tangled situation existing today. 
Northern Ireland encompasses the northwest region of the Emerald Isle. The island's popula­tion developed from a wave of migrations followed by a wave of invasions. 
From the time of the first signs of 
habitation, around 6000 B.C., until 
the time of the Celtic invasion, the 
island remained divided into small 
kingdom~. Between each tribe of 
people there was a struggle for 
ultimate power over the island. lbis 
struggle continued untill the Anglo· 
Norman invasion of 1169 A.D., 
which introduced a different sys­
tem ofgoverning. 
TI1e cultural differences between the Irish peoples and the Norman invaders produced clear distinc­tions which remained throughout the eight centuries of English dominance, contributing to the lack offull :;upport ofand compliance to the existing regime. 
When an attem t was made to 
~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
bridge the gap between the two cultures, England put an end to it with the Statutes of Kilkenny. Thes•:: statutes forbade the English from assimilating to the Gaelic-speaking people by banning them from mar­rying Gaelic women, speaking the language, wearing native costumes, calling on the spiritual services of their priests and even mere associa­tion with them. 
In the early 1600s, in order to strengthen the state church and to ensure more compliance by diffus­ing the population, the British began a diligent policy of"planting" Protestants in Ireland. They accom­plished this by allowing the British landlords in Ireland to lease land only to Englishmen or Scots. 
The domination of the English Crown not only evoked social and political disagreements but initiated the religious conflict. In 1641 the Protestant regime was challenged by the Gaelic Catholics who pledged allegiance to the crown. but not its Protestant agents. Ireland's religious conflict paral­leled the religious conflict going on in England. Onjuly 12, 1690, with 
,fish victory at the Battle of .: Hoyne, Protestant ascendancy was established in Ireland. 
But the British victory did not solve the real problems they faced concerning Irish-Catholics. Realiz­ing that there would be no hope for voluntary Catholic support, the crown sought compliance through coercion, implanting the seeds of division which would yield vio­lence. 
The culmination of this violence came on Easter, 1916, when Irish forces marched through the streets of Dublin, seizing strategic build­ings and erecting the tricolor (green, white, and orange) tlag of the Republic. The six-day revolu­tion resulted in the division of the Ireland into two seperate states: the Republic ofIreland and Northern Ireland. Ireland became an indepen­dent nation, while Northern Ireland, with its Protestant majority, would not agree to separation from Britain and so remains a part ofthe United Kingdom. 
Unlike the Republic, which is over 9S percent Catholic, Northern Ireland has been forced ·to contend with a Protestant-Catholic ratio of two to one. This near equal ratio has influenced the development of Northern Ireland's religious and 
national conflicts. 

.... 
Sports Briefs 
Mark Stevenson, one of three high school seniors signed to play basketball for Notre Dame next year, recently was named to the McDonald's All-American High School Basketball Team. A 6-5 swingman out of Roman Catholic H.S. in Philadelphia, Stevenson will showcase his talents along with 24 other seniors in the eighth annual McDonald's All-American Game on Saturday in Dallas. Selection to the team is based on basketball talent, academic excellence and involvement in community service. Irish players David Rivers and Matt Beeuwsaert were on last year's team. -The 
Obseroer 
The ND/SMC Gymnastics Club will hold elections for club officers today. All current members should attend the regularly scheduled practice to vote. -The Obseroer 
The ND Women's Water Polo Clubwill be meeting for practice tonight from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. For more infor­mation, call Marianne Bailey at 283-3891. -The Obseroer 
Women's Bookstore Basketball schedules may be picked up today from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. in the AnTostal office in LaFortune. Players should remember to bring their IDs to the games, which begin tomorrow.-The Obseroer 
Bookstore Basketball scorekeepersstill 
are needed. Anyone who is interested should call Marc Ramirez at .283-.2504 or Gus Herbert at .283-2026. No experience is necessary. 
Jbe Obsen•er 
AnTostal mud volleyball schedules are posted outside the student government offices on the second floor of Lafortune. first-round games will be played Saturday and Sunday. for more information. call janet Tabit at .2'7-396' or Matt Corrigan at .283-.2-165.-The ObS('T'l'eT 
I 

Thursday, April11, 1985-page 12 
AnTostal innertube water polo schedules 
are posted outside the student government offices on the second floor of LaFortune and rules are available in 257 Cavanaugh. First round games begin Monday. -The Obseroer 
The Irish Spring Runs,road races ofsix and three miles, will be held by NVA on Saturday, April 20. T-shirts will be awarded to all finishers, and a trophy will be awarded to the top finisher in each of the five divisions: men's undergraduate, women's undergraduate, men's graduate, women's graduate, and faculty and staff. An entry fee of J4 is due by Friday, April 12, in the NVA office. Additional registration will be held todayfrom 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. in the North Dining Hall. -The Obseroer 
An interhall tennis tournament will be held by NVA on Saturday, April 20. Each hall may enter two singles players and two doubles teams; no player may play both singles and doubles. Team rosters for the single-elimination tournament are due by Friday, April 12, in the NVA office.-The Obsen"er 
Dancin' Irish tryouts will be held next week. Clinics will be held on Sunday from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. in Gym 1 at the ACC and Tuesday from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. in Gym 4. Tryouts will be held Monday and Wednesday at 6 p.m. in Gym 4. For more informa­tion, contact the Student Activities booth on the first floor of LaFortune or call Debbie at 283-3552 or Lisa at .283-.2697. -The Obsen•er 
Interhall baseball umpires are being sought 
by NVA. Anyone who is interested may fill out an application at the NVA office. -The Obsen•er 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday 
through Thur~day until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third lloor of LaFortune. Briefs must be: dearly written.-The Obsen•er 
Minnesota wants to get Kosar 
Associated Press 

EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn. -Minnesota Vikings General Manager Mike Lynn said Wednesday he has asked NFL commissioner Pete Rozelle to rule that University of Miami quarter­back Bernie Kosar, by having an agent, has lost his college eligibility and would be available for the April 30 draft. 
If such a ruling were made, there would be no need for a supplemen­tal draft, the route Kosar and his agent reportedly want to take so the quarterback could be available to the Clevc:land Browns, and the Vikings could pick him in the regular selection process. 
As a result of Lynn's request, Rozelle has delayed a decision on whether there could he a supple· mental draft until he receives more information on what he called a "unique case." 
But Kosar's agent, John Gdetka, said the Vikings have no grounds for their request. adding he was disap­pointed that the: team had not tried to talk with his client. He also indi­cated that Kosar would still rather play for the: Browns. 
Tbt' Ohsen·er ~otn: Damt.' ot11c..c..· hu.•ued on lhc.: 1l11rd tloor ol I.JI·nrltHlC.' ~llH.Ic.:rll < c.:nlt.:r. JU. c.: pl.' tiJ....!'\ttit.:d Jlh l'fl ro,rn~ trolll l) .1 Ill lllll d t p 111 \lond.l\ throu~h t·rtda~ l'bt• Ohsert•t•r 'a1111 \1.tr~ ·, otiH c.· lot.llcd un the thrnl tlour ol ll.tggar I.ollege I nlln. an t'P'' tl.l"ttinh !rom 12. {I! p m 111111! ~ r m \Jon da\ though l·nd.n lkadlint· lor Ill'" d.n c la"ilinJ, i' ' pIll All t!J'"IinJ, mu.... t hc.: prt·pJrd. l'ilht:r 111 pl·r....un or h\ m.ul ( h.Ir~l· '' I tl ll'lll.., pt'f II\ t'l h.Jf,l(
Classifieds 

tl·r~ l'f Ua\ 
NOTICES 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234·89117 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TYPING Jackie Bogga 884-87113 
WORDPROCESSING-2n-6045. 
GOVERNMENT HOMES from $1 (U repatr). Also delinquent tax property. Call 805-687-6000 Ext. GH-9834 lor inlorma­
trort 
TYPING Term papers, resumes, letters. manuscnpts. Reasonable rates; prckup & del1very on campuses available. Call Mrs. Schulll between 5-10 pm 277-5134. 
Word Procesa>ng and Typing Resumes. Leners. Papers. Documents Call 234­2380 
PRo-TYPE Over 14 yra. exper1ence typ1ng student papers, resumes, and dis­sertations 2n-5833 
THE FINANCE CLUB IS PROUD TO AN­NOUNCE THAT THE OFFICERS FOR THE "85-86 TERM ARE BRYAN DEDRICK. TEAl ELLISON, MATI O'TOOLE, & JOHN WALLER. All THOSE INTERESTED IN STAFF POSI­TIONS SHOULD CONTACT ONE OF THESE PERSONS 
One U.S. dollar Wlllleed two Ethiopians a day 
YOU CAN MAKE A DIFFERENCE I 
Anand the ND/SMC Charity Ball 
Saturday. Apnt 20 
9 p.m. to 2 a.m. 
Stepan Canter Ticketa on sale 1n dorms and at La FOflune record store $6 Single, $10 couple All welcome 
TYPING-CALL ANDREA· 283-3880 
o.n-.1 lllc:ro and Apple Compu._ have extended the Mac>ntoah bundle pnong 
128K Mllontoah. lmagewr~ter, and ex­ternal doak drive -$t841.1 0 
5t2K Mllontoeh. lmagewmer. and ex­ternal doak drive-$2439.60 
1200 baud modems have been reduced to $350.00 wh1le supplies last OeNral Micro BaMment ol LaFortune Student Cart­tar 23tH4n-283-272& 9 a.m.-5 p.m. 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST a ladles gold se1ko watch around and about marn or south quad about 2 weeks before spnng break--heaps and bunches of sentimental value IS anached to It--please call Heather at 3763 if you have found It--thanks! 
LOST: Vivitar lnstamat1c camera at Senior Format in ballroom. If you picked it up by acc1dent, please call Julie at 234­7319. 
LOST: BLUE NO BOOKBAG IMPOR­TANT TO GET NOTEBOOKS BACK IMMEDIATELY Luggage tag with BARNES-HIND corporate logo on it. Everything ln&lde has name. address, 3136 on it. "Lost'" btwn. tQ-10:45 AM Tues. Apnl 2. in South Dining Hall. PLEASE CALL PSYCHO RIGHT AWAY AT 3t36. SANKS. 
HAS ANYONE FOUND MY UNCLE'S WATCH??? I still have not found my Silver Acurron watch lhat belonged lo my Greai­Uncte. If you have by any chance dis­covered it in a melting snowbank or something, Please call 3300 and ask for Paul. If you want money or my first born or anything just ask' 
FOUND: ONE PAIR OF ARGYLES AT BADIN LAUNDRY. CALL 1858 TO IDEN­TIFY AND CLAIM. 
LOST: ONE PAIR OF ITALIAN LEATHER GLOVES. BROWN SIZE 9. REWARD. 
DUE TO MY SPASTIC NATURE I HAVE MANAGED TO LOSE MY WINTER VEST. IT IS BLUE WITH FLANNEL LINER AND CORDUROY COLLAR. IT ALSO HAS A GROUND ZERO BUTION ATIACHED AND EVEN THOUGH GROUND ZERO NO LONGER EXISTS I STILL WOULD LIKE ITS RETURN DUE TO RELIGIOUS OBLIGATIONS. PLEASE RESPOND, THERE IS A REWARD IN THE FORM OF S&H GREEN STAMPS. CALL DAN AT 272­54t6. 
LOST: ladies gold wnstwatch with a grey leather band somewhere between room 204 O"Shag and the South Dtning Hall Tu-y morr~~ng. If lound, please call Jackie at 3688. REWARD. 
LOST: VARSITY LETIER JACKET. lost at LaFortune on 4/8. Size 42, bunon up, name wnnen 1nstde nght sieve. If you have any info. concerning this jacket, or il you found it, please turn it in at lost and found or call me (272-9466). ThiS is very 1mportant to me! Sincerely, Kev10 
FOUND: BLACK GLACIER SUN­GLASSES IN ROOM tt3 NSH AFTER DR. HAMBURG'S RUSSIAN HISTORY CLASS ON WED APRIL 3. CALL JIM AT 2522 OR STOP BY 336 HOWARD HALL. 
FOUND: CORAL AND GOLD COLORED BRACELET IN 3N HOWARD. CALL JIM AT 2522 LOST:GOLD WOMEN'S "ADVANCE"" DIGITAL WATCH ON WED.APRIL3 BE­TWEEN WALSH AND THE BUSINESS BUILDING. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 21t6. 
LOST a hght blue GERRY sk1 jacket at The Commons on wednesday night before Easter break. A nice reward of­fered if found. Please contact Dan at 
t612. 
LOST: AIR-FORCE STYLE FLIGHT JACKET MISPLACEDATSENIORBAR THE WED BEFORE EASTER. REWARD OFFERED. CALL JIM BRUNDAGE AT t574 
LOST A LIGHT GREEN NOTEBOOK WITH NOTRE DAME STICKER ON THE COVER 4/2/85. IF FOUND PLEASE GIVE ME A CALL. DAN-2466. 
LOST: Box ol Maclntoah Dlaca. lost before Easter break. (Some ol the discs have my name and number on them.) If you find them. please call Steve at 2n­8785. They're just discs to you, but they have papers on them that I need to turn in!! 
FOUND: One, yes, one Kodak Disc camera. Its the really fancy 6000 model, so if you want it back contact John or Jeff at 4243. By the way, I found it at the Car­roll Halt formal at the Morris Park Country Club. P.S.-There are only two pictures used 1n the roll of film and I"m gening itchy to take photos ot my leisurely pet Hermit Crab. S1ggy, so call real soon! 
FOR RENT 
NEED AN APARTMENT Summer Townhouse available lor rent' Call 22751or 1nformat1on. 
WANTED 
Need nde to Uoll, Champain: depart Friday. April 12: returning April 14. CaH Marya at 1276 or 1296. 
MOTORCYCLES I'VE BEEN CHECK­ING OUT THE BIKES IN THE LOT WANT TO SEU? CALL ME. WE'LL TALK. JIM 283-t620 
I NEED GRAD. nXI Please call lisa at 3544. 
We are looking lor 2 or 3 female roommates to share a house next school year. Call Andy (3301) or Rob (3305) if in­terested. 
HELP!I Need a ride to CHICAGO ­elth.,. downtown or • western euburt:J (WhMion/Addiaon) THIS FRIDAY!! Aprllt2-PIMaa callllu at 3033 KEEP trying ..pecially urly a.m. or tater p.m. 

RIDERS NEEDED TO IU BLOOMINGTON FOR APRIL 12. CALL MICHELLE AT 284-5430 
FOR SALE 
Be smart' Sell your class books bel ore the rush. Mon.-Fri between t2 and 4. Save$ on paperbacks. Fri: 3-6: 50/ off used: 20/ off new. PANDORA'S BOOKS. 937 So Bend Ave. 233-2342 
FOR SALE: YAMAHA 6-STRING FOLK GUITAR.$t80.283-3229. 
FOR SALE'76VW RABBIT CALL 1459 
6 UNIT APARTMENT FOR SALE, NO­MEMORIAL AREA, EXCELLENT CON­DITION 233-9728 232-4528 
BARGAIN-HEAD GRAPHITE EDGE TXE. Never been used. CAll2&21 
Two story, all modern, 3-4 bedroom. CIA. Alarm system, 1 & 1/2 bath, Marquene district. 287-9103 
TICKETS 
DESPERATELY NEED GRADUAnON nCKETS -PARENTS AND FAMILY ARE COMING TO SEE THEIR LAST KID GET A DIPLOMA. PLEASE HELP THIS Will BE THEIR LAST HONOR CON­SIDERING I HAVE NO JOB DR HONORS!! WILL MAKE DAD PAY YOU Ill 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 3t N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN. 
BUT DOES THE SOUP COME WITH POTATOES!! 
MOONCHILDREN are coming! Reserve April18, 19 and/or 20th and check them out in Weshington Hall. 
PUCKER UP and WATCH OUT' K1saer is coming! Kisser is coming! Kisser is com­ing! 
TALL. GOOD-LOOKING MALE WITH­OUT A MUSTACHE SEEKS GIRLFRIEND. MUST BE WELL­GROOMED. QUIET AND ALSO WITH­OUT A MUSTACHE. IF INTERESTED CALL NICK AT t684. 
St. Jude: Thanks. 

HEY! IF YOU ORDERED A PROGREs­SIVE MUSIC CLUB T-SHIRT, YOU BET­TER PICK IT UP SATURDAY2-4 P.M. IN 34t KEENAN. IF YOU DON'T PICK IT UP THEN, WE GIVE 'EM ALL TO RONNIE JAMES 010, WHO Will USE THEM AS KLEENEX. 
IT"S COMING ..... 
CHARITY BALL 
CHARITY BALL 
CHARITY BALl 
MICHAEL JACKSON, DIANA ROSS, AND RAY CHARLES are help1ng Afnca...... Why don't we????? Come to the ND/SMC Charity Ball lor Et­
hiopia Saturday, April20 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. Stepan Center 
Trckets on sale in dorms and at LaFortune record store $6 smgle, $tO couple 
Bad Joke 1 -Wise man say, ""Man who wants to bowl a score of 300 has no trme to spare!" 
SENIORS,SENIORS:Need graduation t1ckats1Father b1g gambler lrom Reno Will pay b1g bucks $$11 Call John at 2n-Ot91 
Mr. Thibodeau is a real party ammat He wants his class to take him out to Corby's after his camps. 
To Zo1d:Thanks for taking me home to sunny CA,where the most radical t1mes were had by all. Hopefully thiS summer Will be the same'Oh,by the way, HAPPY SEVEN MONTHS!1! Love lorever,W3. 
EUROPEAN SUMMER PROGRAMS ­LAST CALL TO JOIN A NATIONAL GROUP OF STUDENTS, MOSTLY SMC/ND, FOR TRAVEL AND STUDY IN: IRELAND, SCOT., ENG., FR., GER.. SWITZ.. AND ITALY ON TWO DIFFER­ENT PROGRAMS. CALL PROF. A.A. BLACK 284-4460 OR 272-3726. 
LET'S NUKE STUDENT GOVERN­MENT 
Then we can start aver agsm. 
T1ckets are still available for the Chicago Trip for ANYONE (not just Jumors) C.taTicketa$35 
Cuba Tlckleta $17 Saturday. Apnl 13 Call Dan 1787 by Friday 
SENIOR FORMAL CANDID PROOFS ON DISPLAY. LaFortune and Haggar. Thura, Fri. and Mon. -Noon-4PM MCh Day. 4x6-$1.85. Pay When Ordering. THE PICTURE MAN. 
ISH AND BABY DAHL-·· WHAT'S GOOKIN" FOR FRIDAY? WE'RE ST­AHH-VINGII LOVE, YOUR MORALLY CASUAL DATES. SEE VA FRIDAY! 
TO THE ONLY MAN THAT MATIERS­COULD I INTEREST YOU IN CATCHING A FEW RAYS? -NANSHINE Wanted: correspondent tor pnson 1nma1e at At1ca Pnson m N Y Born and ra1sed '" Santa Momca. CA Interests •ndude water sports. football. baseball. and molorcychng. I teach martial arts, gu1tar and enjoy meeting new fnends. Please wnte: J. Mono, 7B-0-238. Box t49. An1ca. N.Y.1401t 

To K1m & Came: We can't say 1t was as good as computer dating. but we'll go head-to-head w1th Vmcey. Doug and the Easter Bunny anyday. We didn't know SMC stood lor So Much Chullpah. Thanks. Tim, Cam. Steve (Your triends I rom St. Joe Hall) 
LOGAN VOLUNTEERS: ThiS IS it! ThiS IS the last month ol logan Activ1t1es thiS year. JOIN US THIS WEEKEND FOR THE "GO HAWAIIAN DANCE'" on FRIDAY (4/12) at 7:30 pm and CARTOON REC on SATURDAY (4113) trom 9 to t1 :30 am at LOGAN CENTER. 
CUBS VS. EXPOS THIS SUNDAY! BUS LEAVES I 1:15AM. CALL PETE 25331F INTERESTED 
ISH DOES YOUR SISTER HAVE A MUSTACHE? IF NOT LET ME KNOW. SINCERELY. YOUR MUSTACHELESS FRIEND. 
JIM TABOR CORE COURSE 
Player of the week: 
Sheila O'Connor 
COLA IS OUT ITS TIME FOR THE PEPSI GENERATION' THIS MEANS YOU YES YOU, YOU EX-COLA WO­MAN' 
TO GET YOUR VERY OWN 8Xt0 GLOSSY OF THE CUTEST DUCK AT SMC CALL ANN 284-DUCK 
HEY MAGGIE -EASTER BREAK IN IOWA/MIKE-WHAT'S A BUTIERFLY KISS?/00 YOU GO BY GREGORY OR JUST GREG? .IT'S SCOTI/THE TYCOON/WANNA WATCH MTV?/ I'D R~~R & IN BANGCOCK/'"OBSESSION"'/DONUTS ON THE INTERSTATE?/23 HAS FROM 
C.R. TO S.B./BROOKE SHIELDS· MADONNA LOOK-A-LIKE?1?/JAMMIM" WITH RICKY/WHERE"S MY BOOK­BAG?.. THE ONE WITH MY SENIOR THESIS IN IT?/WE"RE ON LIQUID DIETS/75 TO t IN HOUSTONII!!'/LOVE 
YA'LISA 

.................... 
CaCe G. Are you pl.ayad and buahy­tallad .. you rMd thla? I h-your birthday waa wondarful..... aven though c-ln lrlanda choaa to Iorge! II Oh well, you'llalwaya r-the ahota, dlacovlll'ing your Mxuattty, and the one night when man _..,., too acummy or tarrlbly pllllllah. Happy Belated 21atl 
NEED RIDE ANYWHERE NEAR PIT­TSBURGH!'. YOUNGSTOWN OR CLEVELAND. FRI 4/t2 RETURN 4/14 ANNETIE 284-4452 
BE A PART OF THE ORIENTATION GENERAL COMMITIEE MANDATORY MEETING MONDAY APRIL 15 6PM CARROLL HALL ??? CALL CAROL 4352 OR MAURA 4339 
The Observer 
Some JC transfers 
Indiana, Purdue sign new players 

Associated Press 
Most of the state's major college basketball recruiting was completed during the NCAA's early signing per­iod last November, but Indiana Coach Bob Knight added three junior college transfers to his depleted roster yesterday. 
Yesterday was the first day to sign players since the early period in the fall. The only player signed by Knight at that time was Rick Cal­loway, a 6-6 forward from Cincinnati Withrow who was the Ohio Class AAA player of the year and a Parade Magazine all-American. He averaged 29 points a game last season. 
The new Hoosier recruits are Len­nell Moore, a 6-foot-7 forward from Indianapolis Manual and Allen Co. ( Kan. )Junior College, who averaged 
I~ points and 8 rebounds a game and will be a junior in eligibility next fall; Andre Harris, a 6-7 forward from Grand Rapids. Mich., and Barton Co. ( Kan.) Community College, a junior in eligibility, and Todd Jadlow, a 6­1 0, center from Salina, Kan., and Bar­ton Co., a sophomore in eligibility. 
"Harris is an outstanding athlete with real good skills and basketball sense. He's very good inside and outside because of his athletic abil­ity," said Knight. "Jadlow is an ex­ceptional shooter who needs to become stronger, but he's very, very competitive. 
"Moore has real good quickness and athletic ability. He has good of­fensive skills as a passer and a shooter," Knight said. 
Since November, the Hoosiers' Mike Giomi was kicked off the team for cutting classes, Marty Simmons quit the team and Winston Morgan, also benched much of the latter part of the season, was considering leaving. 
Also coming to Indiana as a walk­on next fall will be 6-6]eff Oliphant of L&M high School, a first-team As­sociated Press all-stater who averaged 22.9 points and 11.3 rebounds per game. His teammate, Tony Patterson, signed in November with Purdue. 
The only other junior college player signed by Knight in his 14 years at Indiana was 6-8 Courtney Witte of Vincennes University. Witte, a member of the 1981 state high school championship team at Vincennes Lincoln, broke his foot in September and missed the entire season. He has one year ofeligibility left. He is the nephew of Jerry Memering, who played for Knight in 1973. 
Purdue signed Patterson and two other players in November and probably will sign one more next week or the week after. Patterson, a 6-5 guard, averaged 22.9 points a game last season and 20.9 for his career. Like Oliphant, he was a first-team AP all-state pick and helped L&M to the No. 3 statewide ranking and a 28-2 record this past season. Led by Oliphant and Patterson, L&M was 51-3 the past two years. 
The other Purdue recruits are Kip Jones, a 6-7 forward from Bellmont, another first-team AP all-State pick who averaged 30 points a game last season; and Melvin McCants, a 6-8 1/2 center from Illinois stare cham­pion Chicago Mt. Carmel, who averaged 20.2 points and 11.5 rebounds a game. His team went 28­4 last season, winning its final 18 games. 
"We're very happy to sign one quality player at each position," said Purdue Coach Gene Keady. 
Track 
continuedfrom page 20 
relay team, Matteo, Patterson, high jumper Llyod Constable, 5000 and distance medley man Tim Cannon, and the two-mile relay/distance medley of McNelis, Jeff Van Wie, Paul Duvair, and Nick Sparks will travel. 
The remainder of the team will at-. tend the Purdue Relays. 
Both non-scoring meets will allow Mulvey, Garrett, and Bill Courtney to rest after weeks of competition. Although the season has progressed well, the Irish will look to improve this weekend. 
SENIOR BAR BARTENDERS WANTED· 
Be one of the few, the proud. You'll kick yourself later if you don't apply and 01iss the best ti01e of your life. 
Pick up and return applications at Student Activities in LaFortune. 
DEADLINE: Monday Aprill5 at 5 p.01. 

~--~~----------­
Thursday, April 11, 1985 -page 13 



-------~---------------------------------­

The Observer Thursday, April 11, 1985-page 14 
Quisenberry, Wilson 
KC signs two to lifetime contracts 
Associated Press packages being offered to Wilson saves, including a major league 
and Quisenberry could pay them record of 45 in 1983. His current 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -The Kansas each $40 million over a 40-year per­contract runs through the 1986 
City Royals announced yesterday iod. season with an option year for 1987. 
that relief pitcher Dan Quisenberry The Royals signed third baseman The Royals said the new contract 
and center fielder Willie Wilson George Brett to what was described begins with 1987 and runs through 
have signed contracts that should as a lifetime contract last year for a 1990 with individual yearly options 
bind them to the Royals for the rest reported S 1.8 million per year. The through the year 2000. 
of their careers. Royals have been negotiating a Wilson, 29, has a .305 lifetime bat­
"These lifetime contracts are in lifetime contract with second ting average and won the American keeping with our philosophy of baseman Frank White. White, the League batting title in 1982 with a recognizing the achievements of oldest of the four players at 34, said .332 mark. His new contract starts players who excel in our organiza­last month, however, that he was un­with 1986 and runs through 1989 tion," said Avron Fogelman, the happy with the club's offer. with option years through 1995. team's co-owner, who conducted All four players carne up through Fogelman said the three lifetime the negotiations with the two all-the Royals' minor league system. contracts reflect the desire of the stars. Quisenberry, 32, has been Royals, including majority owner 
Terms were not announced, but baseball's most productive relief Ewing Kauffman, to make a commit­earlier published reports indicated pitcher since 1980, logging I75 ment to winnin~. 

Baseball Standings 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
AMERICAN LEAGUE Eaat 
Eaat 
w L Pel. GB w L Pet. GB 

Ch1cago 1 0 1.000 
DetrOit 2 0 1.000 

New York 1 0 1.000 
Baltimore 2 0 1 000 

Montreal 1 .500 .5 
Boston 2 0 1.000 

Philadelphia 0 .0 1 Toronto 1 1 .500 
Pittsburgh 0 .0 1 Milwaukee 0 1 .0 1.5 
St. Louis 0 .0 1 Cleveland 0 2 .0 2 
Wut 
New York 0 2 .0 2 Atlanta 0 1.000 
Wut Houston 1 .500 .5 
Ch1cago 1 0 1.000 

Cincinnati .500 .5 
M10nesota 1 0 1.000 

Los Angeles .500 .5 
Seattle 1 0 1.000 

San Diego .500 .5 
Kansas City 1 .500 .5 
San Francisco .500 .5 
Callrornia 0 .0 1 Dekland 0 1 .0 1 Texas 0 2 .0 1.5 
Yutercl.ly'a Ruulta Montreal4, Cincinnah 1 San Diego 3. San Francisco 0 Yutercl.ly'a R•ulla Los Angeles 5, Houston 4 Detroit B. Cleveland 1 
Tocl.ly'eGamu Boston 14, New York 5 St Louis at New York Bal11more 7, Texas 1 
Los Angeles at Houston Toronto 1, Kansas City 0, 10 innings Pittsburgh at Ch1cago Minnesota at California (n) Atlanta at Philadelphia Oakland at Seattle (n) 


CO-SPONSORED BY 
S.,UDE• .,AC.,IYI.,IES BOARD 
FORD DEALER LOCATION/TIME 
BASNEYFORD Stepan Center Area 9:00 a.m.-3:00p.m. 

Ford is back on campus with FORD GREAT START DAY! Come see, kick, and feel the latest cars and trucks from Ford Divi­sion and ask about the special values available to your campus commumty. 
Fill out the entry form below and drop it off at FORD GREAT START ... DAY The winning entry will be
,M 
drawn at the end of your school's GREAT START DAYevent! 

1 ..
---------­
I 
·~~ 

I II (Complete WIN A SAILBOARD FROM FORD! this form for a chance to win. Please print.) 
1Name I Address (home) -----------­
1Phone Number (__)I Major
I Graduation Date 
I Make and Year of Vehicle Owned I
I Did you purchase your car 0 new or 0 used? 
I 
HOW TO \\'IS: 8'!· aucndang your school's Ford Great Scan Day cvcm you can be eligible to win a sailhoard from Ford Division of Ford Motor Companv. Ju"t fill 
I 
out this em~ form and drop it in the box marked "Ford Sailbnard Drawing." The winning cnr~· will he drawn ar rhc end ofrhc f"ord Great Scare Day event. Wmner 
need not be presenr. Good luck! 
The Observer Thursday, April11, 1985-page 15 
Stanley Cup playoffs get off to an exciting start 
Associated Press Anders Hedberg had tied the In late games, it was Edmonton back on Bossy's second goal of the scored twice in the third period to score with 26 seconds left in the against Los Angeles and Calgary vs. game, a tip-in. break open a tight game which was 
The Philadelphia Flyers and Wash­third period. The Rangers had taken Winnipeg. At Montreal, Ken Linseman interrupted by a 20-minute power ington Capitals survived scares Hanlon out of the net at 19:31 and The Rangers, who lost all seven of scored a goal and set up two, includ­failure in the third period. Clinging thrown into them by New York's Hedberg put a short wrist shot over their regular-season games against ing the winn.:r by Keith Crowder. to a one-goal lead entering the per­two National Hockey League teams goalie Pelle Lindbergh after a pass the Flyers, overcame a 3-0 deficit to The Bruins led, 3-0, on goals by iod, the Nordiques pulled away as and won overtime decisions on the from Grant Ledyard. tie the score on Don Maloney's Charlie Simmer, Mike O'Connell and Paiement deflected in Brad Max­opening night of the Stanley Cup Alan Haworth scored 2:28 into second goal of the game early in the Linseman, but the Canadiens -who well's point drive at 4:02, then con­playoffs last night. overtime to give the Washington third period. But Tim Kerr con­finished first in the Adams Division, verted Michel Goulet's pass from 
Philadelphia, which had the Capitals a 4-3 victory over the nected into an empty net at 6:04 12 points ahead of the fourth-place behind the net at 8:38. league's best record during the regu­Islanders, who have eliminated when Todd Bergen stole the puck Bruins -rallied on goals by Petr Quebec's Peter Stastny was forced lar season, blew a 3-0 lead but won Washington from the last two from Hanlon, who had skated into a Svoboda, Mario Tremblay and to leave the game after taking a shot 
on Mark Howe's goal at 8:01 of playoffs. It was the first home-ice corner to clear it. Bobby Smith, who scored 42 over the eye which required 2 5 overtime. Howe took a pass from win over the Islanders for the Caps. At Landover, Md., the Isles led, 2-seconds apart in the third period. stitches. He is not expected to miss Ron Sutter, who dug the puck free The Islanders had won their last six 0, on goals by Mike Bossy and Denis Then Crowder snapped a pass today's second game. behind the Rangers' net, and scored overtime games in the playoffs. Potvin. But Washington scored from Linseman past Montreal At St. Louis, the Norris-champion from the top of the left faceoff circle Elsewhere, Boston surprised three goals during a 2:09 span in the goaltender Steve Penney at 9:21. Blues trailed most of the game past goalie Glen Hanlon. The Flyers Montreal, 5-3; Quebec downed Buf-· second period, two on power plays Rick Middleton added an insurance against Minnesota, which wound up outshot the Rangers, 9-1, in falo, 5-2 and Minnesota edged St. by Larry Murphy, the other by Mike goal for Boston at 14:05. 24 points behind the Blues during overtime. Louis. 3-2. Gartner. The Islanders bounced In Quebec City, Wilf Paiement the season. 
NBA 
Eastern Conference Western Conference 
"I'm ready to win" 

AUentic Dlvlaion Midwest Division W L Pet. GB w L Pet. GB y-Boston 62 17 .785 y-Oenver 51 28 .646 x-Philadelphia 57 23 .7t3 5.5 x-Houston 46 33 .582 5 x·New Jersey 40 40 .500 22.5 x-Dallas 42 37 .532 9 
Watson has chance at Masters 
x-Wash1ngton 39 40 .494 23 x-San Antonio 40 40 .500 11.5 New York 24 56 .300 38.5 x-Utah 39 40 .494 12 Central Division Kansas City 
31 48 .392 20 

Associated Press Although far from an overwhelm­"My doctor said I have the Hong 
56 23 .709

y~M1Iwaukee 
ing choice, Watson's record Kong virus," Norman said. 
44 36 .550 12.5 Pacific Division 

x-Oetroit 
AUGUSTA, Ga.-The time is now. generally -and and in this event in The free-and-easy Zoeller, the 
x-ChiC8,QO 38 42 .475 18.5 y-L.A. Lakers 59 20 .747 x-Cieveland 35 44 .443 21 x-Portland 40 39 .506 19 
The Masters is at hand. And Tom particular -says he's the man to beat 1979 Masters champ who beat Nor­
32 48 .400 24.5 x-Phoenix 34 46 .425 25.5

Atlanta 
Watson, who has a history of rising in the 49th Masters, which begins man in a playoff for the U.S. open
22 56 .275 34.5 31 48 .392 28 L.A. Clippers 29 50 .367 30 

lndtana Seattle 
to the occasion in golfs major Today. championship last summer, has 
Golden State 22 57 .278 37 

events, is ready. made a remarkable recovery from "I like my chances," said Watson, 
"I've had a couple of chances, at major back surgery and confirmed
L..t Night"a Resulta Frldey'a Gemea 

35, whose past-performance chart is
DetrOit 116.1ndiana114 

Bay Hill and Las Vegas," Watson said his comeback with a victory in the 
Indiana at Philadelphia Atlanta 98. New York 94 

punctuated by five British Open
after a final practice session yester­Bay Hill Classic earlier this season.
New Jersey 125. Philadelphia 100 Milwaukee at Boston Milwaukee 106. Washington 97 Wash1gton at Detroit 

day over the rolling hills and ex­titles, a record six Player of the Year He has had top-I 0 finishes in three of 
L.A. Clippers 129. Denver 127 Atlanta at Chicago 

designations and five money­
tremely fast greens of Augusta his last four starts.
L.A. Clippers at HoustonTonight"a Gemea 

winning titles.
Cleveland at New York 
National."! didn't have a good West
Boston at Cleveland 
"I'm a streak player," he said. As to
Kansas City at San AntonioHouston at Kansas City 
Coast. But I've had a few good
Utah at Phoenix 

The Masters is played on a long, his chances this week, he shrugged.
Portland at Utah 
streaks.
Dallas at Portland
Dallas vs. Seattle (at Tacoma. Wash.) Sea«<e at L.A. Lakers 

wide-open course that places a "If the putts drop, who knows?
"I hit the ball well today. I'm put­
L.A. lakers at Golden State 

premium on length off the tee and maybe."
ting well. Overall, I'm ready to win." 

putting prowess -watson's strong Ballesteros, the sometimes-suits. He has finished first twice, in moody Spaniard who ranks as Wat­1977 and 1981, and second three son's chief challenger for world golf times in the last eight years. supremacy, did little this yeru; before
Women's track team opens season I 
With the coming of warm weather, the Notre Dame women's track club has begun its spring out­
Tom

door season. "After having a very successful indoor season," 
Yoon 

says senior Anne Attea, "we look forward to a big season and seeing our hard work pay off." 
Club Corner

When the season opened on March 31 at Manchester College, the track team's hard work did, indeed, pay off. Other runners in the meet were Bridgette 


Particularly notable at that meet were the fresh­Thompkins and Jinny Blissert, who ran the 400 men and the sophomores. Nancy Loughlin, a fresh­meters, and Donna Stigelmier and Maureen man, ran her personal best in the 1500 meters with a Kibelstis, who ran in the sprints. time of 5:28. Sophomore Jeanne Luther started the "Overall, we did very well, and with our coaching 
season off well in the shot-put, discus, and the staff of Carrie Rowe, Jeff Hayes, Kary Schalte, and javelin. myself," Attea says, "we are anticipating a very 
Alison Macor, a freshman, and Ann Gibson, a soph­strong season from this young team." omore, did well in the distance events. In the 200 The track team's next meet will be at Hillsdale meters, Beth Mirko and Cathy Willard, both fresh­College this weekend. The Irish will be home again 
men, finished fifth and sixth, respectively. onApril20. 
The Healy Company is looking for bright, successful people interested in financial planning and life insurance sales. Do you qualify? If so, call the placement office today to schedule an interview for April 15th. 
Edward M.E. Healy, CLU GeneraI Agent, Minn. Mutual Life Insurance Co. 

'---------------------------------------------· ­
EASY RIDER 
TO AND FROM CHICAGO'S O'HARE EVERY ZHOURS EVERY DAY 
United Limo 
~HDUI

,.__  
.~..""'""',., '"""  ..,  Ill'l!:ullfll.. ~,!ill mH Ill  
674-6993zss..3068 or call your Travel Agenl  ~ ,. 111111111  ~ ~~~~,,t 'IIIH 0e .. ·11111111111111111 ,1Willlillllllllllu,1I ~ jlllltlllllllllllr.l  
--------­ 



MID -EASTERN VEGETARIAN 
first trip 

• Vegetarian & Meat Di•h•• FOODS SHAIVERMA-MUGEDERA-BABA GHENOUJ 
HOMMUS-FELAFEL ~ 
TEBBOULI SALAD 
abroad in 
SOUTH BEND • LEBANESE STYLE 
• Pita Stuffed Sandwicheo GYROS 

• Delightful Paotrieo • Turkioh Coff•• Tueo-Sat 5:30PM-9:30PM 288-5639 
12 years

COMPLETE CATERING FOR PARTIES & BANQUETS 838 Porta1• Ave 
Associated Press 


BLOOMINGTON -Indiana Uni­
versity's basketball team, making its 
first trip abroad in 12 years, will play 
at least six games in Japan and may 
schedule other games on the way 
home, says Coach Bob Knight. 
Knight said the itinerary for the Hoosiers' trip this summer will be completed in about two weeks. 
"China is a possibility," he said. "We could come back through Ar­gentina, or we might play in Yugos­lavia, Bulgaria or Finland." 
Indiana will play in five cities in Japan between June 26 and July 8. Teams from Japan, Holland and the Soviet Union also will be touring Japan at the same time, Knight said. 
The overseas trip will be Indiana's first since 1973, when the Hoosiers played in Spain and the Canary Is­lands. 

winning a rain-shortened tourna­Watson, however, is quick to ac­
ment in New Orleans and has missed knowledge that the select, 77-man 
the cut in his only start since. international field contains a wide ­perhaps wider than usual -variety of Craig Stadler also stands well up potential contenders for the green on the short list of those most likely jacket that goes to the winner of the to succeed. He leads the PGA tour in first of the year's four major events. scoring average and has three runner-up finishes this season, in­Chief among those challengers, 
cluding last week at Greensboro. Watson said, are U.S. open champion Fuzzy Zoeller, British Operi title­Curtis Strange, Mark O'Meara, holder Seve Ballesteros ofSpain and Lanny Wadkins and Cal Peete all the long-hitting Australian, Greg have scored multiple victories this Norman. year and all must be given a chance at victory. "All have the length, all can putt. And, of course, there's Jack Nick­Fuzzy is playing well right now. And laus, the aging Golden Bear, the only Seve has won already this year," five-time Masters champion, holder Watson said. of 17 major professional titles and, at Norman, however, has had an in­45, dedicated to improving the different start and was forced to cut record that ranks as the best in his­short his practice time yesterday. tory. 
IU plans 


------------~--~----~~--~--~.-..~------------------------------------------~------~------------~~----~----~------------­
The Observer Thursday, April 11, 1985 -page 16 
tors. Their multi-colored uniforms 
were a hit and so was Milton Miyas­
Bookstore 
continued/rom page 20 
Power Tools were power shooters in drilling 21-of·32 in dis­mantling The Kids Are All Right, 21· 1l. 
"lhe Brick Shooters came to play, but they did not play much basket· ball. Instead they used football plays and a flying wedge while trying to defeat Cyril Slooter and The Salva· tions. 'lhey received plenty oflaughs with their Hawaiian outfits and crazy antics but did not manage many point.~ in their 21· 7 defeat as Kevin Flynn scored I 0 points for the win· ners. 
Ken Kesey and the Merry Pranksters not only played dressed as merry pranksters but were able to win their game against Berger's Vee­hiro, who pumped in 11 baskets. 
BOOKSTORE BRIEFS · One of today's top games appears to be Shysters, led by Kevin Griffith, versus The Bully Bunch at 5:30p.m. on Stepan 1. Immediately following on the same court will be Still Vir­tually Unknown, a strong team from last year headed by Dave Machtolf and Jim Reed, versus Pits. At 5:30 
p.m. on Bookstore 9 is Red Barons, with former varsity player Casey Newell and Bubba Cunningham from la~t year's champion, Macri's Deli, versus Indira Gandhi and 4 Guys Who Can't Shoot.... Teams should adhere to the times and loca· tions announced in the official tournament schedule, not necessar­ily those printed daily in The Observer. 
Steinbrenner irked 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-It doesn't take long for New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner to sound off when things aren't going well for his team. 
"Off the first two days," Steinbrenner told the New York Times after Boston routed the Yankees, 14-5, yesterday, "I'd have to say our pitching stinks. They know they stink." 
The Red Sox also beat New York, 9·2, in Monday's opener. Yankees' pitching has given up 24 hits and 14 walks in addition to 23 runs in two games. 
''I'm not going to sit back and let this stuff continue," Steinbrenner said. "It's only two games; I'm not going to panic. But I'm not going to be as patient as I wa~ la~t year." 
Docs this mean some changes can be expected if things don't im· prove soon? 
""lhis is a tremendously tough division," he said. "I'm not going to let them get too far behind before I make moves. I'm not saying what moves, just moves." 

Ready for Round One 
Booketore9 Stepan 5Yeaterday'a Reaul1a 
Team Many Martoomes over The Nerfs by 8 4:00 -Jama1can Express v Masc1op.n1o·s lnsh Spuds over Purple Helmeted Lov~ Warners 2 ArmyStepan 1 Traffic Controllers over LipStick on My Dipst1ck. 24·22 4:45. All We've Got1s an Outside Shot v. Interne·P1gsters over The QUitters by 8 
The G Men over Hey Do You Want a Beer by 9 t1onal Man
V Delia E over Cooter Shooters Minus the Night Bookatore10 5:30· The Uncoachables v. Abandoned by Meosky Spiderby6 Something to Grab Four over Young Dan & His 4 6:t5-Jack & the Giant Killers v. The 8-tnch Vert1cal Lack of Effort over Perog1es by 6 

Natve Fnends by 7 Atse
Ken Kasey & the Merry Pranksters over Berger's Vec­T earn Bohem1a over Wood, 3 Duds & a Spud by lorfe1t Stepan 6tors by 6 We Love N.D. • R1ght over Connylingus & the 4:00-Ph1 Runna Gunna v. One More TryPB & Who Knows over The Fourth Ma1n Vems by 9 Tongues. 23·21 4:45. 5 Guys Under 5 FootS v. B1g Black Mac At­Stepan2 

Household Germs over If You Thmk Student Govern­tack
Bearcat Express over Eqwpo Revoluc1anano Popular ment. by8 5:30 ·The Suburban Schoenburgs v. K1ng Ortegaby8 Lyona11 & the Naugles Gang9 K1dneys over Furious Five by tO 4 Play & t Layover Wave Your Dick Add1s by 9 6:15· Rehab1111ate & RebUIIdv. Ragmg Ray sCPAs4 Fags and a Zahmb1e over Qui Suk by 12 Rand's Tuna F1shers over How Can You Trust Some­Bookatore9Gilligan. Kernan. Sadist, Puppy and Party Doll over thing... by 7 4:00 . Watergate v. Milk & the 4 Udders SquirtDryheeves by 5 

Law School Sucks over The Carps, 24·22 Aga1n
Slave Labor & the Terminator over Deignan's Greasy Flankin' Idiots over 3 Neckerph111acs & 2 Perverts by 4:45 ·We Could Score If Our Puose Didn't Hurt v.

Dishes 8 

t3 Just Tatnt Lyona12 5:30. Red Barons v. Indira Gandhi & 4 Guys Who 
Stepan3 Zee Men over 4 Nephews & an Uncle, 23·21 Can Shoot Haynes Hackeus over Two Stoned to Play Zone by 8 SpagheH• with Noodles over Vicki's Vols by 13 6:t5 ·Thanks A Lot Luke v. 2 Puds &3 Other Tools Two Bucks over Daniel Ortega & the N1caraguan lnd~ra Gandhi & 4 Guys Who Can Shoot over The Bookatore 10 Alhes by t3 Foretgners by 6 4:00 • Joel, Get Off the BabysiHer v. F AO II Bad Finger: the Finale over Balance & the Dynamic Phillips over Amber & the Rest of Napoleon by 9 4:45-Soap D1sh v. Pnvate Club Fourby8 5:30 -Kill My Landlord, Kill My Landlord v. Sweet 4 Pigs & a Stude over Abdul & the Rabid Aardvarks Lou s Wild Kmgdom from Hell by3 6:t5 • We'relncredible 'ling v. 4 P1gs & a Stud Cyril. Scooter & the Salvations over Bnck Shooters by Lyona11 t4 4:00 ·About to Face You v. Ke1th (Mag•c) Lomax & 
Stapan4 4 Other Guys .. 
Tod.oy'a Gam..
Th1s IS a D•ctatorshlp over The Annex by forfeit 4:45 . Negat1ve v. Can't Always Get What You Campers United over 4 Guys & a White Ethiopian by Want
Stepan 1 

4:00-L1qu1d Sky & the Drown1ng B~rds v. Dnbbhng Canfield's Crew over The Court Mongers, 24·22 6:t5 • 4 Skms & a Lazy---Cheesehaad.. v. The 
15 5:30 -Amateur Phylacttcs v. Los Malandros 
Dyxzll Power Tools over The Kids Are All Right by t1 Groom & the 4 Best Men 
4:45-The Procedural Defects v. Headly & the Hog Your Worst Nightmare over Non Euclidean P1nheads Lyono12
Heads by 16 4:00 · Canfield's Crew v. 4 Normal Males & One
5:30 ·Shysters v. The Bully Bunch Stepan 5 with Stage Fright 
6:t5 • Sl1ll Virtually Unknown v. Pits Hammsters over Readers of Swedish Erotica by 17 4:45. Pee Wee & the Wee-Bees v. B1g Dan & the 8 
Stepan 2 Hitler Youth over Johnny D & 4 Guys Who Haven't Balls
4:00 • Something to Grab Four v. Post Con· Been Arrested by 4 5:30 -Eye of the Hoops Humca1ne v. The Bean·
sumptory White Cas11y Movements 4 People & a Short Fat Guy over Gurn Blanston's heads
4:45 ·Haynes Hackers v. We Are the People Our Bumbling.. by t4 6:t5 • CB & the DTs v. B1nk
Parents. Boo's Bar over Scarfmg Rebels by 7 5:30 ·You'll Win By 20 v. Alpha. Pi, S1gma 
6: tS ·The Heroes v. Byrne's Byproducts Women'• Bookatore 
Stepan3 

4:00 • Bern1e Goetz & the Subway Alumn1 v. Hey. 
Today'a GameoStepan 6 Shl· Happens 

Angela!
The Hoobsters over Soooool by 6 4:45 ·The Schmucks v. Luggage 5:00 • Vat1cv. The DialectiCS Ch1cks are Dumb over Jamm1n Johnnie & the 

5:30 • Campers Umted v. 2 Ionic 2 Done & t Early 
5:45 • Sk1pp1es Need Not Apply v. Number 5 B.O.H.I.C.A.S. by 7 Corinthian 6:30 -The P1cad1lly Circus v. More Fun ThanTeam 5t2 over 5 Guys Who Don'tGo To Corby's by 2 
6: tS • 9 K1dneys v. John Murphy's Shme Tram VI 
Humans Should Be. 
Mag1c Dick & the 4 Skins over the Company's Pretty. 
Stepan 4 
Angela2by 7 

4:00 · The Hawa11an Kmghts v. Projectile Earwax 
5:00 ·The D.U.I.s v. Have No Pnde, Suffer No Em· 
Stepan? 

From Hell barassmenlDescartes & the Evtl Demons over Choose Death by 
4:45 • J.J. Wehle & His Four Inches v. Homeboys 
5:45. Gnn & Bear It v. USA for 5 G~rls Who Couldn't 
tt 

5:30 ·Tofu Vegetables I v. We're Only Here For the 
ScoreNo Name over Staff Infections by 3 Beer Angela3Boy Scouts Who Eat Browmes. . over AMick. A Hun, 

6:t5 ·The Rats v. 4 Guys Who Go All the Way & 
5:00-Toby & Her Roots v. The 5 W's A L•mey .... 24·22 Joe Dietz 5:45. The Tw1n Towers & the Midget v. Slammers 

Former Indiana high school stars reflect on honor 
The cr)lleted title of Mr. Basket­owns his life insurance agency in In­playing center for Hall of Farner for a state title ended in the opening ball makes each year's u>inner a dianapolis for Fidelity Union Life. He Branch McCracken in Bloomington, round of the state semifinals as Hunt­part ofindiana high school history. and his wife, Jenine, have raised Tom Schwartz thinks today's high-scoring games ington posted a 29·2R decision. This year's Mr. Basketball will be three children. "Ihe youngest, 22-are much better than the style of his He's stayed close to the game at all TUJmed Sunday. In this series, The ycar-old Jonathan, recently went to Associated Press day. levels, watching three of his sons Associated Press provides updtjtes work at Plump's agency. One "There's no doubt the game's a lot play basketball at West Lafayette on some of those who hm'e been daughter, 25-year-old Kclli, recently INDIANAPOLIS-Former Kokomo better. It's a tougher game to play High School. None advanced a<; far as recognizedfor this special auv:1rd. married and is living in California. High School star Tom Schwartz has because the players are quicker and his Kokomo team, but in 1979 he 
"lhe oldest daughter, Tari, 26, works had to undergo a major transition the offense is more complicated, but saw West Lafayette reach the semi­
for the Hoosier Motor Club in In­since being selected Indiana's Mr. the key is still the same. You have to state before losing to eventual state 
dianapolis. Ba'iketball 40 years ago. play defense to be successful." runner-up Anderson 53-49.
Bob Plump "That game changed the life of all Schwartz, now 57 and a grandfat· As a junior, Schwartz helped "It's a lot offun to go back to high the members of the team and a lot of her, went on to play football and bas-Kokomo finish second in the state school games, the state tournament Associated Press other people in our community," kctball at Indiana University. He high school tournament. Evansville and things like that and remember said Plump. "I have no doubt I arrived there in the fall of 1945 ·just Bosse defeated Kokomo, 39·35, in where you've been," said Schwartz, INDIANAPOLIS · It's been 31 wouldn't be where I am today with­as World War II was winding down· the title game and Schwartz had 10 who ha'i raised five children along 
years since Bob Plump hit the shot out that game. Nine of the I 0 and got to letter in both sports as a points. That gave him 34 points in with his wife of 36 years, Pat. 
that made himself and the tiny (players) went on to college and freshman. semifinal and finals play · hardly an One of those children ha'i been a 
northeastern community of Milan a eight graduated. And it really unified He's now a regional manager and impressive figure these days · but paricipant in the Special Olympics · 
part of Indiana ba<iketball history. our community." executive vice president for the the fourth highest figure that year. a non-basketball activity that the 
Only three ticks remained on the Being selected Mr. Basketball mortgage and loan company of clock when the 5· I 0, 150-pounder became more meaningful with the Lomas and Nettleton· a position that with the flat-top haircut scored from passing of time, he says. has brought him to West Lafayette, beyond the free throw line, giving "The significance of the award where he finds himself rooting for Milan a 32-30 upset victory over didn't seem so big when I received the Purdue Boilermakers. Muncie Central in the state champi· it. At least the significance hadn't fil. "I go to as many of the Purdue onship game. tercd to Milan," he said. games as I can," he said in an inter· 
Plump was later selected Indiana's 'lhe recognition meant more view earlier this year when the Mr. Basketball in 1954 and went .on when he was playing for Butler and state's past Mr. Ba-;ketball award to play college basketball at Butler. the Phillips 66crs. winners were honored. "At first I He set a single-game mark of 41 "As I traveled around the country, had a hard time changing my al­
points in a game for the Bulldogs and people had heard about Indiana high legience from Indiana, but now I'm a tossed in 1,450 career points. Mtcr school ba~ketball and they would true Boilermaker. Going w their college, he played for the Amateur say to me. 'you must have really games has become a popular way to Athletic Union power Phillips 66crs. 
been good' to get that honor," he pass the winter." said. "It's really something to see the The 6-foot-6 Schwartz, who ad· ""Ihere's no doubt that shot had a 
way others respect our brand ofhigh mits to adding a few pounds since 
tremendous impact on my life," Plump said in a recent interview. "The exposure from that moment changed my life dramatically." 
He believes several circum­stances combined to make the shot more meaningful. 
"The size of Milan ( 161 students) had a lot to do with it. People like the underdog. And because we had gone to the state finals the year before, people knew about us. There was a lot of publicity and the fact that we went on to win the whole thing in· tensified the event," Plump said. 
Plump, 4R, and his family hao; lived in Indianapolis about 22 years. He school basketball." 
"lherc were more than 700 high schools competing for the state title back in 1954 and today less than 400 exist. 
And although it may be many years before another small school captures the state championship, Plump says the Indiana High School Athletic Association should con­tinue the one-class system. 
"There's an awful lot of tradition in a system where everybody has a shot at the state title. I think going to a two-or-three class system would dilute the meaning of being state champion." 
March of Dimes 
-llllliiBIRTH DEfECTS FOUNDATION-­

'lhe following year, Kokomo's bid Schwartz family activdy supports. 
SUMMER STORAGE SPACE 
(5 x 10 spaces available) 

Call 259-0335 to reserve space self lock $torage of McKinley 
816 East McKinley Mishawaka Security Patrol Checks 

ANNOUNCING OUR NEW OFFICE 
1341 PORTAGE AVENUE 

'Professional Vision 
ASSOCIATES 
Or. Ronald L. Snyder Or. Patrick Albert Or. Jeffrey Coppes 1135 N. Ironwood 1341 ~ 4112 W. Wfttlm 132 E. l....a.nd 277-1111 ·23ot-2400 217-5141 211·7171 North of McDonald's Martin's Shopping Ctr. Belleville' Shopping Ctr. Colony Cleaners Bldg. 
.· 

Thursday, Apri111, 1985-page 17 
Notre Dame baseball statistics 

College teams sign top 
(Record through 21 games: 7-13-1) Batting 

HS basketball talent 
G AD R H RBI 28 38 HR AVG 

Associated Press nois Class AA state title; and Big Ten
Rich Vanthournout 21 74 22 31 15 3 2 2 .419 
champ Michigan got guard Billy

Mike Trudeau 21 68 14 27 19 6 2 3 .397 
Memphis State Coach Dana Kirk, Butts ofMuncie, Ind., Northside, 6-9
Tom Shields 21 68 17 24 14 2 I I .353 
who built a Final Four participant by Loy Vaught of East Kenwood, Mich.,
Jack Moran 21 80 17 27 7 6 0 0 .337 
devloping home-grown talent, and 6-10 J.P. Oosterban from
John Loughran 15 39 4 12 8 2 0 0 .308 
returned to the well again yesterday Kalamazoo, Mich. 
Mike Dorning 16 47 4 13 3 I 0 0 .277 
by signing a Memphis prep standout Ohio State got 6-5 swingmanJerry
David Clark 20 65 7 14 14 2 0 2 .215 
to a national letter-of-intent. Francis from Columbus, Ohio.
KenSoos 16 43 5 8 4 I 0 0 .186 
Yesterday was the first occasion Northwestern, the Big Ten door­since November that hjgh school mat, signed Jeff Grose, a 6-2 guard
TomGuilfoile 9 18 3 6 3 0 0 0 .333 
players could officially align them­from Warsaw who is considered to
Mike Woodcock 7 21 3 7 3 I 0 0 .333 
selves with a college team. Kirk have the inside track on Indiana's
Mike McNeill 12 25 4 5 5 I 0 I .200 
stayed in Tennessee to sign 6-foot-6 coveted Mr. Basketball award, and Il­
Scott Rogers 16 28 10 5 4 0 0 I .179 
Memphis Whitehaven forward Rod­linois got 6-7 Lowell Hamilton ofIlli­
Tim Hutson 4 11 0 I 0 0 0 0 .091 
ney Douglas. He will join former nois Class A champion Providence
John Murphy 12 19 5 I 3 I 0 0 .053 
teammate Marvin Alexander, who St. Mel of Chicago, and 6-1 guard
Darryl Kaelin 7 5 4 0 I 0 0 0 .000 
signed in November, on a Memphis Curtis Taylor of Syracuse, N.Y.,
Steve Sku pi en 5 2 3 0 0 0 0 0 .000 
State team that won the NCAA mid­Fowler. 
Pitching 

west .Region title and advanced to Two California basketball players the Final Four at Lexington, Ky. -forward Shaughn Ryan of Orange
w L IP H R ER so BB ERA 

Douglas averaged 10 points, 6.6 Coast Community College and
Kevin Chenai I 5 I I 12 3 
Paul Mauk I 0 14.0 14 8 3 9 7 1.93 
0 11.1 0.79 

rebounds, four assists and two guard Tyrone Mitchell of Reseda's Bob lee 0 0 2.1 0 1 I I 0 3.86 
blocked shots during Whitehaven's Cleveland High School -signed na­John Gleeson 0 0 1.2 I I I I 4 5.40 
34-1 season that ended with a vic­tional letters of intent yesterday Steve Powell I I 10.2 11 9 7 12 7 5.91 
tory in the Class AAA state champi· with Arizona State. Jason Schomer 0 0 10.2 12 II 8 4 11 6.75 
onship game. In Tucson, meanwhile, Arizona 
In the Southeastern Conference, Coach Lute Olson signed 5-11 guard
Dan Sacchini I I 13.1 12 15 ·11 2 19 7.42 
Vanderbilt signed Nashville Father Kenny Lofton of East Chicago, Ind. JoeDobosh 0 3 22.0 39 23 21 7 5 8.59 
Buster Lopes 2 3 26.1 26 30 23 21 18 7.86 
Ryan High School guard Sydney Southwest Conference champion 
Grider, son of former Harlem Texas Tech landed three players. in­Mark Watzke I 2 13.0 20 16 14 7 9.69 
Brad Cross 0 2 15.2 21 17 15 6 5 8.62 
10 

Globetrotter Josh Grider. The 6-3 cluding its first 7-footer ever, Rod· 13 
Grider averaged 23.7 points a game. ney Henderson of Dallas Bryan Tennessee added 6-5 forward Elvin Adams. The Red Raiders also landed Brown of Elizabethton, Tenn. The 6-7 forward Dwayne Chism of native of the Virgin Islands averaged Odessa College and 6-10 center 
John Bowen 0 I 9.2 16 15 14 7 13.03 
16.8 points and 10.2 rebounds. Wesley Lowe of West Mesquite. 
Indiana, which closed a poor Elsewhere in the SWC, houston season by advancing to the finals of signed 6-1 guard Gerry McGee of the National Invitation Tournament, Houston Madison; Texas A&M got signed junior college transfers Len­Steve Vandiver, a 6-5 guard from Pit· nell Moore, Andre Harris and Todd tsburgh's Allegheny Community Jadlow. Moore, a 6-7 forward from College, and John Tresvuant, a 6-7 Indianapolis Manual and Allen forward from City of San Francisco County, Kan., Junior College, Community College; Baylor signed averaged 13 points and eight 6-9 Jack Smith of Denver, and Texas rebounds a game. Andre Harris, a 6-7 signed 6-5 Patrick Fairs of Odessa forward from Grand Rapids, Mich., College. and Jadlow, a 6-10 center, both Nevada Class A player-of-the-year 
-played at Barton County, Kan., Com· Jeff Penix, a 6-foot guard, signed a munity College. national letter with Colorado, while 
In other Big Ten transactions, Colorado State got Terry Talley, a 6­Minnesota signed Mark Anderson, a foot guard from Duncanville, Texas, junior college All-America from and Pat Durham, a 6· 7 forward from Sheridan, Wyo.; Iowa collected Illi­Dallas. nois' prep Mr. Basketball, 26-point-a­Jerry Johnson of Omaha, Neb., a game guard Ed Horton; Purdue 6-7 forward who averaged 24.6 inked 6-7 Kip Jones, an Indiana all­points and 11 rebounds last season, stater who averaged 30 points per and Archie Marshall of Seminole game, and 6-8 Mel McCants, who led Junior College in Oklahoma, signed Chicago Mount Carmel to the Illi-with Big Eight power Kansas. 
tNOTREDAME COLLEGIATE~ 
~ JAZZFESTIVAL * 
~. * 
~ APRIL 12: 7:30-?? ($5) * ~ APRIL 13: 1:00-4:30 ($3) ~ ~ 7:30-?? ($4) ~ 
~ Judges Jam: (Fri) Guest Band: (Sat) ~ ~ Jimmy Heath ""'­_.,. Stanley Cowell United States Air Force l: 't Dave Holland "Airmen of Note" l: '"P' Butch Miles ~ ~ Gene Bertoncini Where: Stepan Center ~ iC All Session Pass-$8 Tickets: at door i, 
4 
j

CLASS of 1988... 
l 

Plans for Sophomore Literary Festival 
l 
j

1986 are beginning ... 
~ 

Positions needed: Sophomore Literary Festival 
Chairman, executive committee members 
Pick up applications 2nd floor LaFortune, SAB offices 
Deadline for applications is Friday, Apr. 12 
Get Involved! 


Thursday, April 11, 1985 -page 18
The Observer 
First Losses 
SMC softball team drops twinbill 
By LISAJOHNSTON and KELLY PORTOLESE Sports Writers 
The Saint Mary's softball team dropped a doubleheader to Saint Francis College, by scores of c;..2 and 7-6 yesterday afternoon on the Belles' home field. These were the first two losses suffered by the Belles, who now own a S-.2 record this season. 
Saint Mary's pitcher Cathy Logston walked the first two batters she faced in the first game and gave up a double to Lynn Vogelwede which started off the five-run Saint Francis first inning, 
Saint Mary's came back with three hits and one run scored on a wild pitch in the first, but never got com­pletely back into the game. The other Saint Mary's runs came in the fifth and seventh innings. 
"111e wind was a factor in the game, as winning pitcher Bobbi Sinn walked nine, gave up five hits and struck out one, while Logston walked three, but gave up nine hits. 
First baseman Barb Theiss was two-for-three for the Belles. "The last two starts at home have been sluggy, and we paid for it this 
time," Saint Mary's coach Scott Beisel said. "We were in a hole we couldn't get out of." 
In game two the Belles found themselves down, 6-1, going into the bottom of the sixth inning. The Belles then went to work of­fensively, scoring four runs in that inning. The Belles' defense held tight in the top of the seventh to hold their opponents scoreless. 
In the bottom of the seventh the Belles were able to get one run across to send the game into extra innings. 
Saint Francis then pulled ahead, 7­6, in the top of the eighth and the Belles once again had their work cut out fur them. · 
Seniors Trish Nolan and Tracey Bowman led off the bottom of the eighth with back to back singles but Saint Francis was able to retire the next three Saint Mary's batters for the win. 
Nolan finished the game with three singles and an RBI. Senior Teresa McGinnis added a triple and two RB!s. 
Before the Easter break, Saint Mary's swept a doubleheader from the Notre Dame women's softball dub by scores of II-'; and 17-S. The Belles were led in game one by ~enior Katy Boldt, who went three­for-four, knocking in two runs. The winning pitcher, freshman Betty Mihalik, aided her own cause by col­lecting two singles in three at bats. 
Freshman Nan Sauer led the Irish with three singles and three RBis. junior pitcher Mary Langer was tagged with the loss. She paced her team offensively with two singles and an RBI. · 
Game two was decided in six in­nings due to the ten-run rule. Nolan was perfect at the plate for the Belles, batting four-for-four and gat­hering four RBis. Sophomores .Janine Adamo and Lurri White col­lected two hits apiece and combined for seven RBis. Senior Elaine Suess earned the win, striking out three opponents and giving up five walks. 
Again Notre Dame was led by the consistent hilling of Sauer, who went two-for-three. Sophomore Lynn Boyle also contributed two singles. Senior pitcher linda Kel­leher walked seven batters and struck out two in the loss. 
Tomorrow, the Belles will travel to Upland, Ind., to take on Taylor University. On Saturday, Saint Mary's will play Anderson College in Ander­son, Ind. 
Big Ten, Pac-10, ACC 
TBS adds college football coverage 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Turner Broadcast­ing System Inc. moved into the prim<.·-time college football market yesterday, announcing that the Big Ten, Pacific-I 0 and Atlantic Coast conferences have signed two-year contracts for live telecasts. 
The games during the 198'; and 198(> seasons will be seen on cable's SuperStation WTBS and a national network of syndicated TV stations, Bob Wussler, TBS executive vice president and SuperStation presi­dent, said at a news conference. 
'Ibis year's Boston College-Army game Oct. 1.2, a contest between Eastern independents, also will be a part of the prime-time package. 
In addition, the Big Ten signed a separate two-year contract with TBS for a total of .2.2 games -I I each season -to be broadcast early in the afternoon. 
Wusslcr also said an announce­ment concerning telecasts of the Southeastern Conference is ex­pected later this week or next week. 
TBS telecast  some SEC games last  
year.  
Financial  details  were  not  

revealed, but the deal is worth $9 million to the Big Ten, according to a source close to the negotiations. The Pac-1 0 package is worth about 55 million, according to another source. 
No figures were available for the ACC or the BC-Army game. The Big Ten already has a two­year, $ I 0 million contract with CBS. "I can't think of money going to a 
Lacrosse 
continuedfrom page 20 
the third quarter. Sure, the Raiders finally scored at the II:28 mark to avoid what would have been their second straight shutout at the hands of Notre Dame, but they also allowed the Irish to score I 0 times in the period. 
With fresh players coming off the Notre Dame bench to get their chance to play for the first time this year, Mount Union and its tired bunch were in trouble. The Raiders struggled to end the game before nightfall, a feat which they finally did accomplish -barely. 
One would not have to look too hard at the statistics to figure out that Mount Union never had a better place than to higher educa­tion," Ted Turner, TBS board chair­man and president, said. 
TBS, which reaches 40 percent of the nation's lV homes, will cablecast and syndicate 1.2 games in­volving· the three conferences on Saturdays in prime-time this year and 13 next year. 
Four teams, two each from the Big Ten and Pac-1 0, will not be permit­ted to play in televised games this year or next because of sanctions levied by the NCAA. They arc Illinois and Wisconsin from the Big Ten and Arizona and Southern California from the Pac-I 0. 
Other games involving indepen­dent teams may be added to this year's schedule, Wusslcr said. 
Under the'prime-time setup each year, the Big Ten has a minimum of five games, the Pac-1 0 a minimum of four and the ACC a minimum of three. 
CBS has first call on games from those conferences, which are not aligned with the College Football As­sociation for television. ABC has rights to telecast games of schools aligned with the CFA. 
Last June, the Supreme Court deregulated the telecasting of col­lege games, ending the NCAA's ex­clusive control and allowing colleges and conferences to make their own deals. 
"I don't see it making a major im­pact," Donn Bernstein, director of college sports for ABC-TV, said of TBS's move into the prime-time mar­ket. "It'll be an uphill struggle. Since the degregulation, there's been too 
prayer. After all, how can you win when you are outshot by an amazing 77-10? Notre Dame's starting goalie Rob SimP.son only stopped two shots, but that was because the Raiders only took two shots in the two quarters that Simpson played. 
Mclachlan and Rooney led the Notre Dame offensive attack with four goals apiece, while freshman John McNicholas added three goals and two assists. Irish scoring leader Bob Trocchi also played a big role, scoring twice and dishing off for three more goals. His five points give him 123 for his career, just two short of the all-time Notre Dame scoring record. 
IRISH ITEMS -Notre Dame's 
game against Wittenberg that was 
originally scheduled to be played 
next Wednesday on Cartier has been 
moved to Sunday, April 28. 
much football. Football in the early afternoon by syndicators, networks in the late afternoon and ESPN at night. It just clogs the marketplace more. 
"College football traditionally has not fared well in prime-time. You're battling movies and the entertain­ment cable stations." 
Last fall, football fans could watch college games virtually from n;Jon to midnigllt each Saturday on two traditional networks and a handful of cable systems, and ratings for those games on the networks dropped dramatically. 

'lb~ Ob!!ocrn:r/P:.ul Pahon:~ky 
This player for Chicks Are Dumb may n'ot like women, but he certainly seems to be involved in his Bookstore Basketball game yesterday on the Stepan courts. Brian McCarthy details all the tour­namnet action in his story on the backpage. 
Budweiser 1 I 2bbl Old MUwaukee 1 I 2bbl Hamms 1 I 2bbl 
Red White and Blue 24NR 



$33.99 28.99 27.99 
4.99 


~~cJlC3l~-----------------------------------------Th--ur_s_d_ay_,_A_p_ri_l_1_1,_1_9_8_5___
P_ag•e---19 

Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
+-II © 1985 Universal Press Synd1cate 
I r---------------~ ~--------------~ ~---------------~---------------­
llmN170N / 10/?AY IS IH€ bi?A5S LOOI<5 IN FACT tlf€ /rSE/,F111Uf<SPIIY ANP MI5T€f< (J~Y. 7H€ FlOWeRS IS LOOK/Nfl P~r-rY 
''HILL 5Tr<e£T 


~ONE WITH THE  FOOTLOOSE  
WIND  
April10-11  April12-13  
6:30 and 10:30  7, 9:15 and 11:30  
Engineering  Engineering  
Auditorium  Auditorium  



The Daily Crossword 

ACROSS 1 Muffler 6 Br. stable area 
10 Fiasco 14 Kitchen 
utensil 15 Essayist 16 Woodwind 17 Palmer to pals 18 Pleasant 
aspect 20 Completely heatless 22 Chemical compound 23 Oriental 
discipline 24 Pottery stuff 26 Headwear 30 Singe 31 Life-saving 
letters 34 Cl)mlc Bean 35 Vessel 36 Law 37 Getting older 38 Sesame 39 VIrile one 40 Got a lift 
4 Bit strap 42 Stashed 
41 Gong 
5 Preservation 43 Canonized 
method female: abbr. 
6 Unstable 44 Egg on 
particle 7 Heb.month

45 Expiates 8 Weather factor
46 -Stoker (creator of 
9 Jose or Pedro Dracula) 
10 Domineering 47 Legate: abbr. 
11 Short notice 48 Saunter 
12 Method 51 Certain dishes 
13 Beverage 57 Sub-freezing 
19 Time period temperature 
21 Letter 25 -of luxury

59 Martini item 60 Giveout 
26 Hunter's 61 Nobleman 
quarry 62 Mink relative 
27 Grain disease 63 The greatest 28 Apart 4/11/85 64 And others: 
29 Notany 30 Offspring 36 Resort town 49 Noteabbr. 

31 Spice 39 Impetuosity 50 Radar item 

65 Loma­
32 Pay-off 41 Snake 52 Odd: Scot. position 44 Burgeoned 53 CountertenorDOWN 33 Coty and 45 Electrical unit 54 Josip Broz
1 Springs 46 Stains 55 Balanced
Descartes 35 Winter 47 Bikini for one 56 Waterless2 Horse follower 

3 Cartoonist Peter 
protection 48 Egg on 58 Letter 
8li£S" INTO ·c::; RfRUNS fl&fi/N? Y€"v. 
\ I 
~~f 
ift,/---~ 
' 
Kevin Walsh 
AND JJSTIC£ 
PREVAIL.Sr! 

"Well, Vinnie, that's one of the inherent risks of ingesting scuba gear." 

Campus 

•3:30 p.m.-Lecture, "Rapid Growth & Col­•8 p.m. -Lecture, "Why is There a Need for a lapse of Bubbles Surrounded by Visoelastic Catholic Medical Ethics?" Dr. Edmund Pel­
Fluids," William Schowalter, Princeton Uni­legrino, M.D., Georgetown University, versity, Room 356 Fitzpatrick. Sponsored by Thomas More Society, Library 
Auditorium. Out Your Profile Form For On-Campus Inter­views," Paul Reynolds, Assistant Director, Dinner Menus Career & Placement Services, Room 122 Hayes Healy. Notre Dame oi p.m.-ISO General Meeting & Elections, She!ls/spaghetti with meat sauce ISO Lounge, LaFortune Basement. Escalloped ham and potatoes 
• 
7 p.m. -Presentation for Juniors, "Filling 

•7 
p.m.-Meeting, To Look at Plans For Urban Spanakopita Plunge For Next Year, CSC Multi-Purpose Room. Saint Mary's 

Baked chicken Lasagna


•8 
p.m. -Graduate Cello Recital, Constance Sweedish pancakes


Barrett, Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by Broccoli cheese cassarole
ND Department of Music. 
TV Tonight 

6:00p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 9:00p.m. 16 Cheers 22 22 Eyewitness News 
22 Simon and Simon 28 Newswatch 28 28 Eye to Eye 6:30p.m. 16 NBC Nightly News 34 Mystery 22 CBS Evening News 9:30p.m. 16 Night Court 28 ABC's Nightly News 10:00 p.m. 16 Hill Street Blues 22 Knots Landing 28 20/20 7:00p.m. 16 M•A•s•H 34 Masterpiece Theatre 22 Three's Company 28 jeopardy ll:OOp.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 7:30p.m. 16 Barney Miller 22 22 Eyewitness News 22 WKRP in Cincinnat.i 28 Newswatch 28 28 Wheel of Fortune 11:30p.m. 16 TonightShow 22 Master Highlights 28 ABC News Nightline 8:00p.m. 16 Bill Cosby Show 34 Movie 22 Magnum, PI 11:45 p.m. 22 Newhart/Movie 28 Wildside 12:00 a.m. 28 Love Connection 34 34 Front 12:30 a.m. 16 Late Night With David Letterman 8:30p.m. 16 Family Ties 2:00a.m. 22 Nightwatch 
Better Prices 
than that 11ather stare•• an campus Schaal supplies * Health & Beauty needs 
2nd Flaar LaFartun• Dp•n Man-Fri. !1-7 p.m 
.--------------------------·-----~-­
Thursday, April 11, 1985-page 20
SRorts 
Bookstore XIV action begins with preliminary match ups 
players turned in remarkable shoot­much either by hitting only five of
By BRIAN McCARTHY 
ing performances. Among those his 30 attempts. Mike Plunkett was
Sports Writer 
challenging for the Hoosier Award, the team's savior by canning seven presented to the worst shooter in baskets in nine tries.
Book.,wrc XIV is now in full swing the tournamt·nt, was Dave Saltzman, Taking as many shots as possible
as 96 teams competed in the first­who shot 1·for·19. Saltzman's team. seems to have been a key to winning
ever preliminary round yesterday. 
Cooter Shooters Minus the Night for Spuds, who took 92 shots before
The -lH winners earned spots in the Spider faired little better as they reaching 21 points to down the
16 sectionals of the tournament to 
were defeated by N Delta E, 21-IS. Purple Helmeted Warriors, 21-19. 
round out the <; 12-team field. 
Tom McNeil led N Delta E with I 0 Traffic Controls could have used

t The highlight of the day occurred 
points. an air traffic controller to guidein the game featuring Household Hey Do You Want a Beer would more of their shots toward the ba.~­

Germs and If You Think Studentt have been better off asking if anyone ket, but it did not matter in the end
Government Has Problems You 
wanted to help \hem shoot as they as they downed Lipstick on myShould See Us Play Basketball. Tom hit only 12 of 68 shots, led by Vince Dipstick, 24-22. Greg Otto, ChrisHt·aly led Household Germs to a 21­
Isaac, Tom Swaykus and Rob Curney
13 win by scoring a Book.~tore 
all took over 20 shots to contribute
Tournament record 19 points. The 
Bookstore to a team total of 24 hoops on I 0 I 
old record of I H points was set three 
attempts.
years ago by Book.~tore Commis­
®-, XIV The height ofshooting ineptitudesioner Emeritus Rob Simari. Healy 
' was reached in the game between A
shot 19-for-3S while Simari went IH­\ \ 
Mick, A Hun, A Limey, A Gook and A
for-3H in an overtime game. ~2 \ 
Gypsy and Boy Scouts Who Eat
Healy had help from his 
Brownies Are Still Hungry. This
tt·ammates. who willingly let him 
game saw a grand total of 20S shots
take almost all of the team's shots. Pryor at 7-for-27 and Lee Broussard 
taken, with Boy Scouts making 24 of
"We had decided to let one guy at 3-for-17. The victorious G-Men 
I I 2 to take an overtime win. Tim
take all the shots," said Healy. "I fa red little better by shooting 21­
Adams, of A Mick ..., took 46 shots ­
scored first so I just started taking for-84, including Pat Giblin's 2-for­
more than many ofthe teams playing
tht· shots." 20. The game did not end until 
yesterday-to lead his team to defeat.
Healy put in his team's first 17 nearly H p.m. and the ball was barely 
On the flip side, George Maney of
poinl'> before teammate Scott discernable during the final minutes 
Something to Grab Four hit I 0 of 14
Biasetti became bored and fired ill of play. 
shots to lead his team to a 21-4
two baskets ncar the end. No Name still might not have a 
crushing of Young Dan and His 4
If You lnink Student Govern­name but the team has won a game, 
Naive Friends. Roger Wilke made
ment. . . featured student govern­21-18, over Staff Infections, who 
I 0-of-1 <; from the field while leading
ment members Cathy David, Chris were led by Carroll Hall Rector Fa­
Four Play and One Lay to a 21-12 vic­
Taybeck and Karen McCloskey, who ther Steve Gibson. Andrew l.ashus of 
tory over Wave Your Dick Addis. 
led her team with 6 baskets. No Name probably will not want to A longstanding Bookstore tradi­mention his name after shooting 1­
see BOOKSTORE, page 16
tion was kept intact as several for-16. Rob Treutin~ did not help 

Irish lacrosse team rolls over Mount Union, 23-2 
By MIKE SULLIVAN bounced a shot off the artificial turf, realized that they could win but we didn't do that in the begin­Irish began attacking the goal much Sports Writer over the Mount Union goalie's blindfolded. ning." harder from the beginning of the shoulder and into the net. However, as Notre Dame Although the game wa.o;, in reality, second quarter. 'Inc Mount Union lbe Mount llnion Raiders had Rooney's goal with 7:50 left in the gradually got umracked and the over before it started, the Irish did goalie was up to the challenge for 
their defense packed together in game finished off the Raiders' last Raiders continued to play keep­their best to keep the Raiders close about three minutes, but then the front of their goal about midway rally, which saw the visitors from Al­away from each other, the game for the first quarter by playing slug­dam broke. through the fourth quarter ofyester­liance, Ohio. cut a 22-1 Notre Dame quickly turned into a Iaugher as Irish gishly and failing to take advantage First, defenseman Justin Shay day's lacrosse game against Notre lead to 22-2 a minute earlier. Merci­coach Rich O'Leary played everyone of the Raiders' ineptitude. Still, they caught a pass near the midfield line, 
Dame on Cartier Field. fully, it also was the final score ofthe but team manager Bill McDermott in were able to put together a 2-0 lead dodged a defender, and bounced a afternoon a.o; the Irish raised their the second half. on goals by Dave O'Neill and John shot into the top of the net. lben, 
Obviously, they were tired be­Midwest Lacrosse Association McLachlan. Tim Corrigan dodged one Raider, cause only 18 players made the trip record to 3-0 by mauling Mount "This was one of those times "We had a lot of opportunities, then another, and made it 4-0. By the to windy South Bend, but they were Union, 23-2. when you know that, if we do our but we were playing poorly," said time the quarter tinally ended, Notre trying to protect their goalie, who As the lopsided score indicates, it things well, we could bring in those O'Leary. "We didn't have much in­Dame had outshot its guest, 26-0, 
had stopped numerous Irish shots was not a pretty game. Not only guys who don't play much," said tensity because the guys knew we had controlled the ball for all hUI already, from the nonstop attack of were the Raiders badly outmatched O'Leary, whose team figures to have could put anybody out there and about 30 seconds, and led by a 9-0 their hosts. once again against the Irish (Notre a much tougher test when it travels win. I told them between quarters, score. 
'Jncn, senior attackman Kevin Dame has outscored Mount Union, to Wooster, Ohio, Saturday to take though, that, if they weren't going to As if that were not bad enough, Rooney of Notre Dame popped out 66-6, in three games), hut the Irish on MLA rival Wooster. "We were perform better and execute well, I'd things got worse for Mount Union in ofthe pack in front ofthe goal, took a also did not play well, especially hoping that our starters would use play some other people." 
pass from freshman john Burtis, and early in the game, when they the game to get down their timing, O'Leary's warning paid off as the see LACROSSE, page 18 



ND men's track team finishes second to IU 
By MIKE SZ\'MANSKI for the NCAA meet, according to Sports Writer Piane. lney must run .~:OS.9, but they were clocked at 3:08.4 earlier 
The Notre Dame men's track team in the season. 
finished second to Big Ten indoor Shannon also placed in the 400 in 
champion Indiana and defeated Mic­47.36. a very good time considering 
higan State on a cold, blustery day the conditions. 
last Saturday. Dan Garrett in the SOOO led a host 
"Despite some fine individual per­ofsecond place finishes for the Irish formances," Irish head coach joe along with Rick Mulvey in the Piane said, "the team could have steeplechase (9:33.16), Chris Mat­done quite a bit a better." teo in the pole vault ( 13-6 1/2) and 
javelin throwers Brian Driscoll, james Pattnson in the long jump. Jim Hoffand Steve DeMartino were a John McNelis continued his fine pleasant suprise with their 1·2-3 season by taking t1rst in the HOO in finish because the Irish are not tradi­I:<;0.7, defeating an Indiana runner tionally strong in the weight events. who was second at the NCAA indoor Tim Smith and Tom Mick also con­1c;oo. Nobles, who is improving in a tributed with their first-and third­race that is completely new to him, place finishes, respectively, in the finished fourth in the HOO in I :S3. discus. Piane will take 12 athletes to the 
The mile relay of Robert Nobles, prestigious Dogwood Relay~ this 
Thr Observcr/Chailanya Panchal Van Pearcy, Dan Shannon and Mitch weekend, and he says he expects Van Eyken ran a virtually uncon­them to do well in that meet with 
Irish Lacrosse co-captai11 Bob Trocchi ( 4 5) driz,es points shy ofthe Notre Dame career scoring record. tested race to record an impressive excellent competition. 'Inc mile around the goal against a Radford defender in a Mike Sullivan gives the details of Trocchi's team's 3: 10 in rough weather. '111ey are game last week. The senior attackman is on~y two victoryyesterday over Mount Union above. definitely within range of qualifying see TRACK, page 13 





