

ilrllb!ielverl!h:ila-
Saint Mary's Student Body President-Elect AnneMarie Kollman prepares to answerquestions atMonday night's farum. Kollman's unopposed ticket went on to win the election yesterday. Story at right. 
Hesburgh leads panel in pastoral discussion 
By PAT CONLIN 
News Staff 
Though each of the panelists had suggestions, the bishops' letter on the economy received a general nod of approval from professors and priests at a discussion held at Notre Dame last night. 
"The bishops' message is appro­priate and their timing is excellent," said Ed Trubac, professor of finance and business economics, who said attention is now focused on the eco­nomy because of current federal budget cutting and recent recession. 
"The long recession lowered in­flation. We know the benefits ofthat, the bishops have reminded us ofthe costs," he said. 
"A country is judged by what it does for the poor and powerless. If the bishops don't take a stand there, how can they take a stand on anyth­ing," said Father Theodore Res­burgh, University president. "I say to you, it's time now for the bishops to say something," he said. 
The first draft of the letter "Catholic Social Teaching and the 
U.S. Economy" was released by a committee of bishops led by Mil­waukee's Archbishop Rembert Weakland in November. The bis­hops will publish the final draft of the letter later this year. 
"It's really a restatement of the statement that has always guided Christians," said Father Oliver Wil­liams, associate professor ofmanage­ment. "We are both our brolher~· and sisters' keepers," he said. 
"It is important to show the relevance of religion and the Bible to economics. We have a nenl for ethical standards," Williams noted, adding that the challenge is to create a sense ofpurpose. 
"We all need an ideal, a vision of what we're shooting for. We don't have a cultural consensus that everybody has economic rights," he said. 
Charles Craypo, chairman of the economics department, said "We must pursue full employment in this country -it should be a serious policy objective." 
But criticisms came hand in hand with praise at the discussion, sponsored by Omicron Delta Ep­silon, the economics honor society. 
"They have gone in far too much detail, they shouldn't give policy ap­plications. We have managers who are extremely talented and ifwe let them, they could solve many of these problems," said Williams. 
"The bishops would do a great service if they would analyze the strengths and weaknesses ofour cur­rent society, not just economically but socially," said Hesburgh. 
Hesburgh also regretted that the 
letter sounds too much like an "old 
New Deal agenda." 
Economics professor James 
Rakowski said the emphasis on 
change should be placed more on 
people rather than capitalist institu­
tions. He said such arguments give 
individuals a "way out." 
"The focus of economy should be on people. The bishops shift from emphasis on people to 'sinful' structures," he said. "The economy is unstahk l~<..:au'e "·c-art" not good economists The economv is unjust 
see PASTORAL, page 4 
Valentine's Day-page 9 
Low turnout marks class election's 
By BETH WHELPLEY 
News Staff 
The ticket ofAnne Marie Kollman was elected to office by thirty-seven percent of the student body yester­day at the Haggar College Center. 
The Kollman ticket consisted of Kollman herself, who was elected as Student Body president, Jeane Hel­ler as Vice President of Student Af­fairs, and Julie Harmon as Vice President ofAcademic Affairs. 
Running unopposed on the ballot, the Kollman ticket received 97 per­cent ofthe obtained votes. Said Kol­lman, "We got a high percentage of the votes. I am excited that they think we're capable ... We feel we have strong support." 
The senior class officers elected were Ann McCarthy as president, Mary Sauer as vice president, Mimi Boyle as class secretary, and Francie White as treasurer. Fifty-six percent of the senior class voted for the McCarthy ticket as opposed to the Steber ticket. The Steber ticket in­cluded Beth Steber, Elizabeth Spraul, Liz Zimmer, and Patty Mur­
ray. 
Commenting on the 66 percent turnout at the polls by the seniors, McCarthy said, "It was a great race .. . We are pleased with the voter par­ticipation, and we're anticipating an exciting senior year." 
The senior class boasts the largest turnout at the polls in comparison to the entire student body. 
Michelle Coleman was elected president of the junior class, along with her running mates Betsy Burke as vice president, Angie Hundman as class secretary, and Katie Sullivan as treasurer. While their ticket, which ran unopposed, received 90 percent of the obtained votes, only 28 per­cent ofthe juniors actually voted. 
"Even though I'm disappointed at the low turnout, I think it's under­standable considering the weather and the unopposed ticket. I think if there had been more than one per­son running, people would have felt their vote would be more impor­tant." 
For the sophomore class officers, president-elect is Sarah Cook, vice president is Colleen Dowd, secre­tary is Susan Etton, and treasurer is Lisa Hamann. Fifty-nine percent of the votes were acquired to surpass the opposing ticket of Karen Han­son, Uz Wrobel, Mary Ryan, and Anne Borgmann . 
The sophomore class had the lowest turnout at the polls, with only 24 percent of the students voting, said Cook. 
"Ifstudents want to have the right to voice their opinions, then they should exercise that right by voting," she added. 
Trish Cullo served as Election Commissioner for the '85 elections. Looking at the student body per­centages, Cullo said, "We had a really bad turnout for 37 percent. I think a lot had to do with the wea­ther. However, 66 percent is the highest percentage of voters we've ever had for the senior class." 
Voting took place at Haggar Col­lege Center which is accessible to most students by tunnels. 
Kollman, on the voter turnout said, "I'm a little disappointed. I ex­pected.a low count because of the weather. I'm surprised at the sopho­more class. Perhaps they felt voting wasn't necessary because there was only one ticket." 
Winter 'unusual,' says weatherma 
By MARKS. PANKOWSKI 
News Staff 
'Traveller's advisory for tomor­row. Cloudy, windy, and a chance ofsnow." 
That forecast, from Tuesday night's WNDU newscast, has become all too familiar to Notre Dame students and faculty lately. 
South Bend's recent weather has been characterized by heavy snowfalls and unseasonably cold temperatures, according to WNDU's weatherman, who said that this year's winter has been quite unusual. 
"This is not a typical winter. Last year we had a temperature of 59 degrees on this date (Feb. 12 ). Now I'm looking out of my win­dow at blowing winds and heavy snow." 
For Addis, the entire winter has been a nightmare because of it's unpredictability. 
"There've been no trends. Everything has been unexpected and full of anomalies. Things haven't been going along with projected patterns," said Addis. "I'm surprised when some wea­ther forecasters can· get the 48 hour outlook correct, much less the 5 day outlook." 
Student reaction to the recent snowfall and frigid temperatures has ranged from "I like it" to "It's depressing." 
FreshmanJohn Keegan took an optimistic outlook, saying, "I like the snow. It makes the campus look great." 
Other students weren't as en­thusiastic. Junior Christina W ein­mann commented, "I can take the snow. But when you get two feet of it, that's overdoing it." 
Jason Ebora, a sophomore from what the future weather will Hawaii, concurred, saying bring. simply, "I prefer white sand." "Basing the future on past 
Professor Alexander Hahn, trends, I see more fizzled who has survived South Bend forecasts. I guess that's a way of winters since 1965, takes a more saying, 'I don't know."' philosophical view of the wea­ther. At the end of his forecast each 
"Some people pay thousands evening, Addis gives one word of dollars to go to a ski resort for that describes the upcoming this kind of weather," said Hahn. weather. According to him, the "One should make the best of it. one word that describes the wea­Only when you start feeling sorry ther for the past couple of for yourself, then (the weather) months is "unexpected." And the becomes a disaster." ,. word that describes the weather 
Addis was noncomittal about for the future? "Unpredictable." 
Classes not cancelled 
By MARK PANKOWSKI 
News Staff 
Many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students have been won­dering why classes have contin­ued despite the recent harsh weather conditions. 
"(The weather) would have to be a lot more severe" in order for classes to be cancelled at Notre Dame, said University Provost Timothy O'Meara. 
Saint Mary's President John Duggan agreed, saying, "It would take a natural disaster for classes to be cancelled at Saint Mary's." 
Duggan and O'Meara have similar reasons for keeping their schools open. 
"The students are all here on campus and most of the faculty can make it here, so I see no point in closing (Saint Mary's)," said Duggan. "For those faculty that couldn't make it, we just can­celled their classes." 
"We have a large number of students on campus so we felt we could conduct classes," O'Meara noted. "We also have a certain amount ofclass days that we have to get in each semester." 
History and tradition seem to be on Duggan and O'Meara's side. 
According to Duggan, "Saint Mary's and Notre Dame have been closed once in the past 140 years, as far as anybody around here can remember." 
"That was in 1978 when the drifts were four to five feet high," continued Duggan. "People couldn't move around and they were advised to stay inside." 
O'Meara believes he made the right decision in holding classes at Notre Dame yesterday. "I just talked to several men in a dorm and none oftheir classes was can­celled," said O'Meara. "I drove five miles today (Feb. 13), and I got here fine." 
j 
1 
1 
j 
1 
~ 
I l 
~ 
l j 

In Brief 
It'S a first 3lllendment fight at Yale University where the Conneticut Civil Liberties Union is charging the adminis­tration with violating the free speech rights of the university com­munity during a recent strike. The CCLU says that, among other things. students were forced to remove banners from dorms and told not to post strike-related messages 01;1 an electronic bulletin board. ­
The Obseroer 
H Connecticut lawmakers go along, "An Act 
Prohibiting The Use Of Uncooked Rice At Nuptial Affairs" would provide that "no person shall throw, fling, cast or hurl any uncooked rice at any time during the celebration ofany marriage." Republican Rep. Mae Schmidle says it would "prevent injury and death of birds as a result ofingesting raw rice." Schmidle's bill would impose a SSO fine for anyone caught throwing raw rice at a wedding. Tossing cooked rice at newleyweds would solve the problem, Schmidle ac­knowledged. But she said that, too, would tiave its drawbacks. "Then you'd have to throw It in lumps," she said. -AP 
.... 
Of Interest 
An ad hOC COmmittee to organize the Notre Dame Entrepreneurial Society will meet in Room 121 of Hayes-Healy Hall tonight at 7. Anyone interested in becoming a member or an officer In an organization to promote student entrepreneurship is encour­aged to attend. -The Obseroer 
The government career day scheduled for 
today by Career and Placement Services has been cancelled. The event will not be postponed, but rather will be reorganized for next semester, according to Paul Reynolds, assistant director. -The Obseroer 
Careers in advertising wm be the topic when Paula Bright, a Saint Mary's graduate working for Mother Earth News In Chicago, speaks to the Saint Mary's Communication Club tonight. The second in a series ofguest speakers, Bright's talk will be at 6:45 
p.m. in the parlor of Holy Cross Hall. All students interested in the field ofadvertising are invited to attend. -The Observer 
Junior Parents' Weekend has not been can­
celled due to the weather, as some rumors may have students believ­ing. Weekend organizers say that all events will go on as scheduled, beginning Friday. -The Obseroer 
Sunandfun will be the topic at a student activities board meeting on the upcoming trips to Ft. Lauderdale and Daytona Bea<::h during spring break. The meeting will be in LaFortune's Little Theater tonight at 7 and anyone interested is invited. -The Obseroer 
Weather 
More snow is predicted to fall today on northern Indiana with possible accumula­tion and continued strong winds. Highs are predicted to range from the upper teens to the mld-20s. -AP 

The Observer Thursday, February 14, 1985 -page 2 
Flowers, candy, cards symbolize commercialism of Valentine's Day 
Today, for those who are still haven't gotten past December, is Feb. 14. Al:;o known as Valentine's Day. 
You might remember Valentine's Day; it's that holiday where half the population is coerced into spending money on flowers, candy and the like, while the other half is made to feel unloved, unwanted and maybe unwashed ifno oneis spending moneyon them. 
Some holiday. 
For those who have succumbed to the Valentine's Day spirit and are blessed with tokens ofsomeone's af­fection, this column is not for you. Smell your flowers, eat your candy. Don't bother reading on. 
The rest of us, who have nothing better to do than shovel snow and finish our homework, might as well continue. 
The Accent pages oftoday's paper explore the myths behind Valentine's Day. Who is the St. Valentine after 
which this day is named?  How  did  the  traditions  
originate?  
This author's personal  
belief is that Valentine's Day  
is the creation of a market­ 
ing genius who created a fic­ 
tional St. Valentine, sent  
press releases across the  
country and bought as much  
Hallmark stock as he could  
lay his hands on.  
Valentine's Day is  
capitalism in it's purest  
form. Convince everyone  
that they are thoughtless,  
unloving people unless they  
send flowers, or at least a  
card, on an arbitrary day.  
Concoct massive advertis­ 
ing campaigns to make sure  
no one forgets his/her Valentine's Day obligation  1-t'f  

Then sit back and count the money. I'll bet you wouldn't catch Chernenko sending a valentine. 
"But all holidays tend toward commercialism,'' say those Valentine's Day supporters who ignored the pre­vious warning and have continued reading. "That doesn't mean there's nothing there." 
Maybe not. Valentine's Day does have its good points, or so they say. It is a day ofromance.lt is a day on which people show their feelings for one another. And though it seems unlikely that there's much love in a candy heart, there's not much harm in one. · 
The sad thing is that Valentine's Day makes us translate our affection into dollars and cents. Cliched as it may sound, most people show their "love" in little ways. They shovel someone's sidewalks, help out with homework, even take out the garbage. Not very roman­tic, but a little more real than a rose and a song. "But," claim the ever-vocal Valentine's Day sup-

ERICA 
LUVYOU LOTS! 
RAY 
CANCER.
NOT
KNOWING 
THE RISKS 
IS YOUR 
GREATEST 
RISK. 
Amy Stephan 
Project Manager 
porters, "that's the whole point. Valentine's Day is supposed to be romantic." And for some it is. There are those who love to give flowers. Then there are those who feel obligated to give them just because it's Feb. 14. And finally, there are those who have no one to whom to give flowers. 

It is to the last two groups that this column is ad­dressed. Those who don't like to display their feelings and those who (maybe to their chagrin) don't have anyone on which to lavish their affections. 
The Valentine's Day sup­porters don't need this column. They can smell their roses and eat their candy. Or better yet, eat their roses and smell their candy. They have a whole slew of advertisers and sen­timental types on their side. 
This column is for those who are sick ofcandy hearts and X-rated valentines. This for those who plan to celebrate Valentine's Day alone with a biology book and a beer. This is for all those to whom Feb. 14 is just another snowy South Bend day. 
We know that Valentine's ,MARK wEtMHOLf Day is just silly and commer­
cial. and we refuse to submit. We'll sit back and laugh at those who take this holiday seriously. We'll stand fast in our war against commercialism. 
And maybe next year. someone will send flowers. 
The Observer encourages the free expres­sion ofopinions through letters to the editor. Letters should be brief (approximately 250 words) and typed whenever possible. All let­ters should be signed (although the author's name need not be published), and should in­dude a phone number at which the author may be reached. Letters are published on a space-available basis. Letters are edited to correct errors in grammar and for space con­siderations. 

Today's issue was produced by:
The Observer 
Design Edito• ............................. Paul Bruce Design Assistant ........... Mark Mclaughlin The ObeervH. (USPS 599 2·4000) is 
layout Staff. Scott Bearby, Richard Con· published Monday through Friday and 
ndly on home foorball Saturdays, except 
Typesetten ..............Jennifer Bigou, Tracy during exam and vacation peri.X:S. The 
News EdltOt" ......................... Keith Harrison Observer Is published by the students of 
Copy Edito• ........................ Mary Heilmann the llnl\'ersicy of Notre Dame and Saint 
Spo•ts Copy Edlto•.............. Marc R.amlrez Mary's College. Subscriptions may be 
Viewpoint Copy Edito• .......... Dave Grote purchased for 130 per year ( 120 per se· 
Viewpoint Layout.............. Caroline Belin mester)by writing The Observer, P.O. Featu.-es Copy Edlto•................... Ed Nolan Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Features layout ..................Andy Schnuck 
The Obeerver Is a member of The 
ND Day EdltOt" ................... Donna Gavigan Aatooclated Press. AU reproduction 
Ad Design .. Susan O'Hara, Kathy Krenzer rights ar<: reserved. Photographer" ............................ Phil Deeter 
Please 
support the 
~AMERICAN 
~ CANCER !'SOCIETY® 
..~..........~~--~--~~--------~--~----·----------~-.------------~.----~------------­
he Observer Thursday, February 14, 1985 -page 3 
Internationally acclaimed guitarist to perform at O'Laughlin Saturday 
SpecJal to The ObM:rver 
Internationally acclaimed Canadian classical guitarist Liona Boyd will present a concert in O'Laughlin Auditorium on Saturday, February 23, 1985, at 8 p.m. She will play selections from Bach, Chopin, 
Rodrigo, and Granados among others. 
Boyd, rated one of the top three classical guitarists in the world by Frets magazine in 1983, is relatively new to the musical world. She did not begin studying the guitar until she was in her early teens, after at­tending a concert featuring Julian Bream, the internationally admired classical guitarist. 
"I wanted to take the guitar seriously," she recalls. "While other kids at my school were sticking Bea­tie cards on the backs of their mir­rors I'd stick pictures of Bream and Segovia on the backs of mine." 
Boyd studied guitar under the tutelage ofEli Kassner. In addition to giving Boyd superior instruction, Kassner introduced his protege to the most successful 20th century classical guitar perfomers. 
"We have a very close relation­ship even now," Kassner says. "She always asks my advice; she comes and plays new material for me; she checks out her records with me and gets my opinion on the construction of her concert programs." 
Boyd attended the University of Toronto where she studied compo­sition music history, harmony, and piano technique. Shortly before she completed her honors degree in mu­sical performance in 1972, Kassner arranged for her to play for his friend, guitarist Alexandre Lagoya, in Toronto for a concert. Although Lagoya was no longer accepting private students, he urged Boyd to come to Nice and study with him. 
Boyd agreed to make her first record in 1974. By now she had already won the 1972 Canadian Na­tional Music Competition for guitar. When produced, the album, "The Guitar -Liona Boyd," began her meteoric career. 
Boyd's life since her first album has been a nonstop blur of towns, cities, hotel rooms, high school auditoriums, concert halls and in­credible good fortune. In 1975 at the Juno Award presentations (she received hers in 1978 as Instrumen­tal Artist of the Year) she met folk guitarist Gordon Lightfoot. He asked her to join him as an opening act and for three years they toured across North America, playing more than 80 concerts. 
Today Boyd has many albums to her credit and outsells every other Columbia Records classical artist by 10-1. She travels the world to per­form for heads of state. In 1982 she played at the economic conference at Montebello for Ronald Reagan, Pierre Trudeau, Margaret Thatcher, Francois Mitterand, Helmut Schmidt, Giovanni Spaldolini and Zenko Suzuki. 
She has appeared on The Mike Douglas Show, The Merv Griffin Show, The Dinah Shore Show and The Today Show. CBS-TV, Canada, featured her in a 1978 Superspecial and she has played at "An Evening with the Boston Pops," and Stars on Ice. She composes music for short movies and plays concert benefits each year, and in 1981/82 she was spokesperson for the Arthritis Soci­ety ofCanada. 
In her concert at Saint Mary's, Boyd will perform a work by a local guitarist, Ian Krause, who is a graduate oflndiana University. 
Following the concert at O'Laughlin Auditorium, the Canadian Consulate will host a reception at Saint Mary's for the art­ist. 

Public Relati<ni Pholo 
Internationally acclaimed Canadian classical guitarist Liana Bayd will perfonn works ~ Bach and ClxJpin this Saturday at O'LaugblinAuditorium. Story at left. 
Charity ball to benefit Ethiopia planned by student group 
Invitations have also been sent to it is tentively scheduled for Satur­raised from the ball can be used
By GERARD GOLDNER 
provide entertainment. Refresh­several prominent individuals in­day, April 20, from 9 p.m. until 2 a.m. most effectively.
News Staff 
ments, including hors d'oeuvres, cluding South Bend Mayor Roger The cost oftickets will be S10 per Gordon said a charity ball had will be served. 
Parent, U.S. Congressman John couple or S8 per person with all been selected over various other A charity ball to benefit the Heiler, U.S. Senator Richard Lugar, proceeds going to aid Ethiopian fuqd-raising activities to give a for­famine-stricken nation of Ethiopia is The organizational committee is University President Father famine victims. Donations will also mal, dignified atmosphere to the ap­being organized by a group of stu­headed by Notre Dame students Dan Theodore Hesburgh and College be accepted in the hope of reaching peal and to involve the Notre dents calling themselves the Con­Harrison and Leslie Gordon. They PresidentJohn Duggan. a S50,000 goal. Dame/Saint Mary's community as a cerned Students for the Relief of hope as many as 3,000 persons from The committee is still researching whole. As far as Gordon knows,Ethiopia Charity Ball Committee. 
the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Although many details of the various international relieforganiza­nothing like this has been done It will be held in Stepan Center, community will attend. charity ball still need to be finalized, tions through which the money before at either school. 
South Dining Hall opens its doors to late night studiers 
ByLISAYOUNG 
News Staff 
Your roommate is throwing a "small party," the study lounges are crowded, and it's much too cold to walk across campus to the 'brar. But you still have a philosophy exam to study for. Where can you go? 
Try the South Dining Hall. Every Sunday through Thursday, from 11 
p.m. to 3 a.m., the Faculty Dining Room in the South Dining Hall will be open for studying. 
The idea originated with last year's Student Senate and was finally enacted on Sunday. According to Student Senator Dan McNamara, the original idea was to use the space in the library basement vacated since the construction of Decio Faculty Hall. This idea did not work out, and another location was needed. 
The idea was pursued because, McNamara said, ':!he Nazz is always 
crowded ... there seems to be a mar­however, a security guard patrols ket for this". the building to protect from van­The atmosphere ofthe dining hall dalism. is perfect, as the "architecture lends 
Few students know about this 
to this use, and the location is 
new studying area, as only a re­
quieter than the Nazz," McNamara 
ported 10 people took advantage of 
noted. 
the space on Tuesday evening. Ads 
Anyone can use the studying 
in The Observer, as well as word of 
space. Table tents will be posted 
mouth, should attract students in 
with some regulations for the con­
the future, commented McNamara. 
sideration of others, including no group studying. There are no He added that a snack bar for the monitors in the study room; study room is being considered, but 

Clip and save this ad for easy travel planning! Travel United Limo to t1 from Chicago's O'Hare 
LEAVE LEAVE 

ARRIVE ARRIVE 
NOTRE MICHIANA 
MICHIANA NOTRE 
OAME REGIONAL 
REGIONAL DAME 
AIRPORT BUS
BUS AIRPORT 
ARRIVE 
LEAVE 
O'HARE 
O'HARE
SHELTER SOUTH BEND 
SOUTH BEND SHELTER 
4.20 a.m 440 am 
8:30a.m
6:00a.m. 
11:50 a.m. 12:05 p.m. 
6:20a.m 6:40a.m 
10:30 a.m.
8:00am 
1:50 p.m. 2:05p.m. 
8:20a.m 8·40 am 
12:30 p.m.
10:00 am 
3:50p.m. 4:05p.m. 
10 20 a.m 10:40 am 
2·30 p.m
12:00 p m 
5:50pm. 6:05p.m 
12:20 p m 12:40 p m 
4:30p.m
2:00pm 
7:50p.m. 8:05 p m. 
2 20 p.m 2:40p.m. 
4:00p.m • 
6:30p.m. 
9:50p.m. 10:05 p.m 
4·20 p.m 4'40 p m 
8·30 p.m
6:00p.m 
11:50 p.m 12:05 a.m. 
6 20 p.m 6:40pm 
10:30 p.m.
8:00 p m 
1.50a.m 2·05 a m 
8:20pm 8:40pm 
12:30 a.m
10:00 p m 
3:50a.m. 4:05a.m 
SOUTH BEND ARRIVALS & DEPARTURES ON SOUTH BEND TIME. EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 28. 1984 FOR RESERVATIONS CAll FOR COMPLETE liST OF PICKUP POINTS & TIMES 
(219) 674.. 6993 
OR CALL YOUR 
TRAVEL AGENT 
the proposal will probably not be ap­
proved, because it would compete 
with the Oak Room, which is open 
until1 am. 
McNamara undertook this project 
and has been overseeing its results. 
Also responsible are Bill Hickey, 
Director of Food Services, for grant­
ing permission to use the dining 
room, and Tom Mason, Vice Presi­
dent for Business. Affairs, for aut­
horizing funds for table lamps and 
•the security guard fee. 
•e S.A.B. Cafnpus Entertainment • 
• presents... e 
:Shopping, 5 
: Dinner& :
5 Dancing: : in Chicago 5 
: ******************1 : 
: $15.00 : 
• t****************** • • Saturday, Feb. 23 • : Limited space-Tickets on : : sale at the Record Store e 
~••••••...••......•••:. 
~--------------------.--.----.-----~---------------------·----------~· 
The Observer Thursday, February 14, 1985 -page 4 
SAT value questioned in new Harvard study 
By EILEEN HOFFMANN 
News Staff 
How important are SAT scores? This question has received attention at Notre Dame lately as debate con­tinues concerning whether or not the Scholastic Aptitude Test is still achieving its original purpose. 
The questions arose in the wake of a study conducted by Harvard Uni­versity to determine the accuracy of the SAT in determining a student's potential for success in college. 
The study was prompted by the abolishment of the SAT requirement for admission at Bates College in Lewiston, Maine. 
As a result of the study, printed in the Feb. 5 edition ofThe Wall Street Journal, Harvard is considering replacing the SAT with achievement tests in such subjects as history and science. 
At Notre Dame, a prospective stu· dent's SAT scores are reviewed in 
Pastoral 
continuedfrompage I 
because we are unjust," stated 
• Rakowski. "Economics never made a hero," Hesburgh said, "We must per· sonalize the economy. The letter should have been written in a way that would most dramatize the prob­lems we face. Catholic social teach· ing is very good; the bishops must be more pragmatic. We cannot just come up with theories--we must do." 
In conclusion, Hesburgh ex­horted the more than 150 in atten­dance, "It's your world. You'll make It better or slide with the injustic~s. Get into it. Try to understand the in· justices. Don't be that kind of per­son. Do what you can to make this a better world." 
conjunction with a number ofother 
factors, including high school cur­
riculum and grades and the can­
didate's personal essay, according to 
Kevin Rooney, Director of Under­
graduate Admissions. 
''Several factors contribute to the 
process of admissions at Notre 
Dame, among them the personal es­
says written by the applicants, any 
extra-curricular activities that they 
participated in during high school, 
and the development of the whole 
person. Our admissions department 
is looking for those students who 
would be a positive force in both the 
classroom as well as the residence 
halls," said Rooney. 
Rooney adds that there are no plans to discontinue using the two· and-a-half hour test, taken by ap· proximately one million students each year, as part ofthe Notre Dame admissilits process. He noted, however, that the University would be interested in reviewing the re­.search being conducted by Harvard. 
In the first part of the discussion, 
the panel members each com­
mented on specific sections of the 
document. 
Refering to Chapter 2, Williams said, "This letter reminds us that our civil and political rights were hard won. Now is the time to move on to economic rights for everyone." 
Craypo outlined the four alterna­tives offered by the bishops to using unemployment as an anti-inflation strategy: "We need a national com­mittment to full employment, direct job creation, the formation ofpoliti· cal coalition to build full employ­ment, and finally to expand and improve employment sources." 
Trubac, discussing Chapter 4, cited the social factors leading to the poverty problems as "racial discrim­ination, the feminization of poverty and the unequal distribution of wealth becoming more pronounced." 

Ihc= O~rver /PhH l)cc(et 
University President Father Theodore Hesburgh participate in last night's discussion ofthe bishop's and several noted professors from the University pastoral letter on economics. Story, page 1. 
Exciting and Challenging Career Opportunities 
Master of Business Administration 
A small, highly selective MBA program has been designed by The Oh10 State University to provide professional management education to students with nonbusiness academic backgrounds. This two-year full-time program 
• 
facilitates a high level of student and faculty-student interaction 

• 
has no prerequisite cour.e work 

• 
is especially attractive tc students with liberal arts. scientific, and other nonbus1ness backgrounds 

• 
is built upon a tightly Integrated study of foundation management tools and concepts 

• offers the opportunity to concentrate 1n one or two management fields through elective course work 

• 
is offered by one of the top 25 schools of management in the country and is accredited by the American Assembly of Collegiate Schools of Bus1ness 


Last year's graduates were very successful in finding career opportunities. Examples of positions they selected 1nclude the follow1ng: 
• 
assistant to the chief executive officer. Midland Mutual Life 

• 
field marketing manager. F<lrd Motor Company 


• 
management tra1nee with an International assignment. Chase Manhattan Bank 

• 
assistant product manager. Pillsbury 

• 
financial analyst. Hewlett Packard 

• 
Inventory control manager. IBM Corporcotion 

• 
account executive. Merrill Lynch 

• 
consultant. Price Wate. house 

• 
management tra1nee · vith an International 


ass1gnment. Procter and Gamble For a brochure descnb1ng this program and appliCation 1nformat1on. please contact: 
Director. MBA Programs The Ohio State University 
112 Hagerty Hall 1775 College Road Columbus. OH 43210-1399 614-422-8511 

The Ohio State University 

··gQoweh~ fph oQQ oe(:ogio~g 
Come in and Browse 
327 Lincolnway 232-3354 
The .Observer -· 1985·86 Managing Editor and Business Manager 
Resumes and personal statements must be submitted to Sarah Hamilton by 5 p.m. Feb. 15, 1985 TheObserver 
3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
• • Junior Parents Weekend • • Junior Parents Weekend • • 
JUNIORS JPW REGISTRATION 
In LaFortune S. Alcove Also at the Cocktail Dance Thursday 6-10 pm 
Please Bring Your J.D. Friday 9am -8 pm You OR Your Parents Saturday 9 -noon 
can Register 


iremen fight Manila hotel blaze 
Associated Press 
MANILA, Philippines -Hundreds of firefighters for a second night Wednesday battled a blaze that swept through one of Manila's larg­est luxury hotels. At least 24 people, including four Americans, died in the blaze. 
"This is going to take the whole night," said Col. Alfredo Garcia, area fire superintendent, supervising the hundreds offiremen on the scene. 
Twenty-four hours after the fire started on the hotel's second floor, smoke continued to pour out of upper-floor windows on one wing of the 11-story, 464-room bayside hotel. 
One fire official, Col. Rodolfo Vil­lavicencio, said the death toll could 
U.S.-Soviet talks to begin Tuesday 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The United States and Soviet Union will sit down to discuss the Middle East next week, but U.S. officials tried yester­day to dampen expectations in ad­vance by insisting they expect no change in Soviet policies. 
Nevertheless, the two-day session in Vienna, beginning Tuesday, represents an increase in the dialogue on such troublespots as Af­ghanistan, southern Lebanon, the Iran-Iraq war and the Arab-Israeli conflict. 
"These talks should not be seen as 
negotiations," State Department 
spokesman Bernard Kalb cautioned 
after announcing the discussions. 
"They are merely an exchange of views," he said. "They do not repre­sent any change in the U.S. position 
DON'T LET THE BUS LEAVE WITHOUT YOU ! 
South Bend 
..• ·"'/ / 
/./ 
$75.00 Deposit
..,~/~
-~ 
~ / ' «/ 
<\ __.;-·_ 
for the 
/ 
\ \ 
\ \ Student Activities Board \ \ \ (the leader in entertainment) \ \ 
\ 
\ \ 
\ \ 
\ SPRING BREAK 
\ 
\ 
\ \ TRIPS TO: 
Ft. Lauderdale $299.00 Daytona Beach $199.00 

double or triple by the time the fire finally was extinguished and the building was thoroughly searched. 
The cause of the fire was not yet known, but Villavicencio said it may have been arson. "To me it looks sus­picious because the lateral spread was quick and the alarm was delayed." 
Fire officials said 18 bodies had been recovered, and that firemen had located at least six more bodies in areas of the building still too hot to enter. Government television said 26 people were dead, but gave no breakdown and cited no specific sources for the figure. 
Most of the bodies recovered were found on stairway landings. Villavicencio said he feared more 
regarding issues affecting the region, nor do we expect them to result in changes in Soviet positions." 
The U.S. delegation will be led by Richard Murphy, assistant secretary ofstate for the Near East. The Soviet team will be led by Vladimir Polyakov, who is Murphy's counter­part in the Soviet foreign ministry. 
"The discussions are to contrib­ute to our own mutual understanding of those problems and are part ofour ongoing effort to engage the Soviets in the full agenda of issues, including regional ques­tions, human rights, and bilateral is­sues as well as arms control," said Kalb. Arms control negotiations are set to resume next month in Geneva. 
President Reagan, leaving the White House yesterday for a vaca­tion in California, was asked what the meeting might accomplish. 
victims among the hotel's estimated 370 guests and an undetermined number ofemployees may have suff­ocated as they jammed smoke-filled hallways. 
Police said earlier that 160 guests had been transferred to the nearby Hyatt and that they did not know the whereabouts of more than 150 others. They said some ofthe others may have moved to other hotels on their own. 
Officials of two funeral homes where the dead were taken identi­fied the four Americans as Edward Carroll, a U.S. internal Revenue Ser­vice official based in Tokyo; Raymund Ching of Honolulu; Lewis Carrol Rowney, 62, and his wife Ber­nadine. 
"Well, there are a number of things that 1 think are of interest to both countries," he said. "There's some reason to believe that we can straighten out some things -trade matters." 
Kalb said the objective of the ses­sion was to "help avoid miscalcula­tion and to reduce the potential risk of U.S.-Soviet confrontation." 
Reagan, asked about the reported agreement between PLO chief Yas­ser Arafat and Jordan's King Hussein on a so-called "framework for peace," replied: "it seems as if some progress has been made ... so, we're being optimistic about it." 
But he said the administration was "definitely not in support" of hold­ing an international conference on the Middle East, which Israel also opposes. 
Thursday, February 14, 1985 -page 5 

A Daytona Beach McDonald's shows some damage after wind gusts registering up to 48 milesperhourripped through the Florida community. The storm, which hit Daytona early Tuesday, caused minor damage throughout the city. 
Ballet company to perform as part of SMC art series 
Special to The Observer 
"Chicago City Ballet-such stuff as dreams are made of." This is how one critic described the Chicago City Ballet which will perform in O'Laughlin Auditorium at 8 p.m. Friday as part ofthe Saint Mary's Per­forming Arts Series. 
The internationally acclaimed bal­let is under the direction of of Maria Tillchiefand Paul Mejia. 
The company will perform three selections, each choreographed by Paul Mejia: "Brahms Waltzes" is a modern classical ballet designed for 18 dancers which features lyrical dancing in the style of the waltz; "Jeux" enacts flirtations on a tennis court to the music of Claude Debussy; and "Perfumes" utilizes the entire company and features the music of Albinoni, Shanker, Stravinsky, Berlioz, and an Argen­tinian tango. 
Tallchief has been universally recognized as America's first great prima ballerina. When George Balanchine formed the New York City Ballet in 1948, she became the 
A Remind~r that the Deadline for Nominating a Senior Student 
for the 
Distinguished Student Award 
is 
Friday, Feb. 22 
Nomination forms are available'c in the Campus Ministry Office Memorial Library, the Center for Social Concerns or the Alumni Office (201 Admin. Bldg.) 
company's prima ballerina. Under Balanchine's guidance, she dominated the world of interna­tional dance for two decades. Presi­dent Eisenhower bestowed upon her "The Woman ofthe Year" award in"1953. 
Tallchief is now placing her en­ergy into her ballet company, which strongly reflects the artistic and cre­ative ideas of her teacher and late husband George Balanchine. 
With the help of another Balanchine protege, Paul Mejia, Tal­lchief is successfully shaping the company of 26 dancers into the image of Balanchine's New York City Ballet. 
Paul Mejia was made Artistic Director of the company in 1981. A scholarship student at the School of American Ballet, Mejia later joined the New York City Ballet where he danced leading roles in many Balanchine works. 
Tickets for the performance are on sale at the box office for 16. 50, S5.50, and S4.50, with a dollar dis­count for students and senior citizens. 
View~_o_i_n__t________
Th_u_rs-day_,F_eb_ru_ary_1_4._19-85-pa-ge-6 
-·-~-----------~---~~--~----­
When the e~tire city closes, we should too 
IfAndy Looney were still around and the Keenan Revue were this weekend, 
Looney would look around O'Laughlin Auditorium and ask to his audience: 
"Classes in this snow. Why?" 
The answer, according to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, is that the snow ... er . . . the show must go on. And yesterday it did. Students stumbled out oftheir beds and waded to class through two-foot snow drifts just to find out, in many cases, that class had been cancelled anyway. Unlike the postman, professors sometimes have trouble moving a car through unplowed side streets. One ad­ministrator said it took 45 minutes to travel five blocks from his home to campus. 
The official word from the University and the College was that non-academic staff did not have to report to work yesterday. For secretaries, maids, business staff and the like, it was what you always hoped for as a child: a snow day. A sign in Decio Hall at Notre Dame summed II.;up: Classes were on, offices wereclosed. 
SaidJohn Duggan, president ofSaint Mary's: "It would take a natural disaster" for the College to close. 
But officials in South Bend seemed to be treating the snow storm as such. St. Joseph County roads were closed, in addition to parts ofU.S. 31 and the Indiana Toll Road. Every meeting, seminar, event--a list that took a local radio station 1 S minutes to read --all seemed to be cancelled in the South Bend area. Police threatened to arrest motorists who ventured out for anything less than an emer­gency. 
SisterJohn MiriamJones, assistant provost at Notre Dame, said the main con­cern is not to disrupt the academic schedule. Eighty percent of the people involved in holding class-on campus students--were already here,Jones added, so why not hold class? 
Another answer goes back to the winter of 1978. Snow drifts then were monsters, four or five feet tall, and all of northern Indiana ceased to function. Except the liquor stores near Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. As several professors noted in class yesterday, the two schools simply are afraid that the announce­ment ofa Snow Day would immediately explode into Alcohol Abuse. 
And everyone knows that few things are worse than Alcohol Abuse. Let pro­fessors land their cars in drifts. Let off-campus students skid offthe road. Please remember, Father Hesburgh and Dr. Duggan, that the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community is not the U.S. Post Office. Rain, sleet, snow or hail can halt these schools, if not the mail. 
-The Observer 
Second semester senior syndrome sets in at ND 

It's February at Notre Dame -and you know what that means. 
It's time for the second semester senior syndrome or S4 · and you thought all you had to worry about was the cold andflu season? 
Guess again. 
Let's face it, second semester before spring break at Notre Dame can be a traumatic expe­rience for anyone · weeks upon end without sunshine, South Pacific night in the dining 
Carol Camp 
guest column 
hall, the mid-semester crunch. But, for many second semester seniors this time is especially troublesome. As we worry about what city we will end up in, what law schools or graduate: schools will accept us or what we'll actually be doing for the rest of our lives, we fre. qucntly lose perspective. All too often, we try to conceal our concerns from others, prefer­ring to keep them to ourselves. 
I know. After being afflicted with an acute case ofS4 this past week, I've discovered some: antidotes to this peculiar illness. 
First ofall, don't be afraid to talk about your feelings with a good friend. I'm not suggesting that you constantly burden other people with your problems, but rather, that you try to ver­balize your feelings to someone who has a sensitive car. Other seniors are especially good people to talk to, because chances are they're probably feeling or have already expc· ricnced the exact same feelings you have. 
Second, don't fall into the trap ofrefusing to meet new people just because it's second se­mester and you're graduating in May. Granted, you may only be able to spend a shon amount of time with them, but some time is better than no time at all, right? Think about it. There 
are approximately 1,700 members of the 
Class of 1985 -people who have attitudes, 
ideas, and perspectives totally unique from 
yours. In my view, if you don't make an effort 
to meet at least a few of them before May 19, 
1985, you'll be missing out on what could be 
an invaluable educational experience, not to 
mention some good times. 
Third, take time out for yourself. Nobody 
else is going to give you a break, even though 
McDonald's says you deserve one today -it's 
up to you to take the initiative. Do something 
you wouldn't ordinarily do-spend more time 
offcampus, get involved with volunteer work, 
or challenge yourself to do something you've 
always wanted to do, but haven't had the 
courage to try. In three weeks, I've (almost) 
conquered my fear of ice skating -next, it's 
time for me to hit the slopes. 
Fourth, reflect upon your faith and the role that God plays in your life. I'm not suggesting that you cloister yourself or even that you begin attending Mass on a daily basis; rather, I'm saying that since God is the one who knows what form your life will soon be assum· ing, doesn't it make sense to at least touch base with Him? 
Finally -and this is probably the most diffi­cult thing to do -hang in there. Even though this piece ofadvice is frequently given and sel­dom followed, it's still worth mentioning at least one more time. By concentrating your efforts upon living each day, you'll make it through. And just think, this time next year, you'll look back on your experiences as a second semester senior and wonder to your· self, "Where did the time go?", as the memories of S4 are replaced with reminis­cences of times spent laughing and sharing with friends. 
Carol Camp is a seniorstaffreporterat The· Observerand is a senior in tbe College ofArts. and Letters atNotre Dame. 

Fighting and backbiting hurts our government 
By now, everyone is sick to death of the Great Notre Dame Election Scandal of 1985. For those of you who were hiding under a rock for the past week or so and didn't hear about it, I'll briefly reiterate the story, hope­fully for the last time. It seems that one SBP/SBVP ticket committed several infrac­tions ofcampaigning rules, was caught, had its candidacy withdrawn, and ultimately had its candidacy reinstated. In the process, a whole 
John Perez 
just wondering 
bunch of "important and influential" people connected with the electoral process and stu­dent government resigned. Space limitations preclude my providing the scorecard neces· sary to keep track of who did what and to whom on this merry-go-round. 
In the case of our recent election, OBUD laid down the rules and enforced them. It used its "espionage network" to hunt down cam­paign violations. It confronted the violators, 
In the aftermath of this mini·Watergate (Domergate?), one must wonder not only what the role ofstudent government at Notre Dame is, but who Is "student government". The Student Senate? The Ombudsman? The Hall President's Council? 
A couple of days ago, I asked roughly a dozen of my friends who the student body president was. Only three replied "Rob Ber­tino." None of them had any idea who their student senator was. A few could describe OBUD's functions. Most had an idea of what the HPC was. My point is: If these bodies are such a vital part of our community and sup­posedly play a major role in student affairs, why don't we hear or know more about them? Are they really fulfilling the needs of the typi­cal student, or are they just a source of nifty· looking resume Items for their members? 
who admitted their guilt. It stripped them of 
their candidacy. A job well done. 
Then the Student Senate steped in. It over­
turned OBUD's decision and restored the 
guilty parties to the ballot. Why? · we don't 
know. The decision was made in secret, and 
no explanations were offered. Is this a job well 
done? 
Ultimately, an ad hoc election committee 
ran the elections, accomplishing what usually 
takes months to organize in a mere two days. 
The elections were conducted without inci· 
dent. However, all is stil not well. 
The problem is obvious: nobody really 
knows who is responsible for what. Egos take 
precedence over rules. Our "leadership" has 
no direction. A policy of "sec no evil, hear no 
evil, speak no evil" just will not work. The 
people with the most potential power and in­
fluence arc least in touch with the student 
body as a whole. The election fiasco was 
merely a symptom of this disarray in general. 
Despite the good intentions of many, our 
present system ofstudent leadership is a joke. 
It is a very bad joke. Like any bad joke, it 
reflects as poorly upon the perpetrator as the 
victim. We have the people and ideas to make 
our community truly great, we only need a 
push in the right direction. Better organiza­
tion and communication is that push. 
The campus leadership must realize that in· fighting and backbiting will get them, and us, nowhere. Goals and objectives must be set. Strategies and programs to achieve these goals must be implemented, maintained, and reviewed. Responsibilities must be assigned, and the various governmental bodies must respect each others' duties and decisions. Most importantly, they must remember whom they represent -the students. Closed door meetings and secret ballots are tools of dictators, not legislators. We have a right to know what's going on and why. Isn't getting 
fair representation what elections are all about? 
john Perez is a junioraccounting majorat Notre Dame and ts a regular Viewpoint col­umnist. 
Got an opinion? Share it! 
Vi,·wpoint would like to bearfrom you. Ifyou would like to respond to something you've read in The Obseroer, why not writ~; a letter to the editor. Letters should be well· written, typed, no more than 250 words In length and must bear the signature ofthe author. Letters which are not signed by the author will not be pub­lished. 
But letters are not the only way to voice your opinion in Tbe Observer, Viewpoint also accepts guest columns. Guest columns should be well-written, typed, no more than 500 words in length and must bear the signature of the author. A guest column, unlike letter to the editor, should not be a direct response to another editorial. 
Both guest columns and letters to the editor can be mailed to The Obseroer, P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556, or delivered to either our Notre Dame office in LaFortune Student Center or our Saint Mary's office in Haggar College Center. Please include your telephone number. 
The Obseroer reserves the right to edit all material submitted to tbe Viewpoint departmentfor publication. 

-~-------------......
-----------~-----------------------­
VieWP-Oint Thursday, February 14,1985-page 7 
Reagan must correct FDR's actions at Yalta 
1 was the innocence abroad of a president who 1 was such a master ofreality at home. 1 When Admiral Leahy, his military liaison, 1
,
urged him to be stronger in facing Stalin on Poland, FOR said he was helpless, that Stalin's 1 army was already there. 
Should it then have been unthinkable to let 
~ 
George Patton cut his way with armor to 
1
Prague, as he offered to do, to gain prior pos­,session ofthe remaining turf? ,The trouble was that FOR willed his trust in 
, 
Stalin's promises, hoping to elicit promise­, keeping in return. It never came. 
"We can't do business with Stalin, he has broken every one of the promises he made at Yalta," FOR said ruefully before he died. It was too late to lay down American innocence. Harry Truman had a lot of FOR's doing to undo. So does Ronald Reagan. 
C. 1985 LOS ANGELES TIMES SYNDICATE 
Forty years ago Franklin Roosevelt spent a week at Yalta with Stalin and Churchill, and out ofthat week the Soviet empire was born. 
Ronald Reagan, 34 at the time, was a fervent Roosevelt supporter. Now, 40 years later, in 
Max Lerner The Max Lerner Column 
his State ofthe Union address, Reagan has said, "We can't play innocents abroad in a world that is not innocent." It is a sentence likely to last. The phrase is from Mark Twain's hilarious spoofon American travelers in Europe. Regan could not have used it without having Yalta and its bleak and savage heritage in mind. 
With Churchill protesting but helpless to stop him, FOR agreed to Stalin's formula for mock elections in Poland, without the inter­national supervision Chuirchill had demanded. 
This meant a surrender of the Polish future to a government that would do Russia's will. Poland served as Stalin's model, and the result was the division of Europe into two Europes, one free, one satellite. 
How did this happpen, with the greatest American president of the century in charge, one who has become the paradigm ofour cult ofstrong leadership? Two sets ofexplanations have emerged. One is situational: Roosevelt was exhausted and sick, as witness the historic Yalta photo, with his face a death mask. Roosevelt -and Churchill too -wanted to end the war quickly, and avoid the cost in lives in finally cracking Hitler's Fortressed Germany. 
Asecond explanation runs in terms of quid pro quo. Roosevelt wanted three things form Stalin -to drive through Eastern Europe to Berlin, to help America later with the costly storming of Japan, to join him in building a postwar United Nations world. 
But in explaining Yalta these explanations explain it away. It is true that Roosevelt was a dying man who had stretched his body and will in the war and 1944 campaign. But Stalin needed no courting to drive to Berlin. He was only too happy to do it, willing to risk the casualties because it would make him the pos­sesssor on the grounds. 
The big bribe of islands and a sphere of in­fluence in the North Pacific was also a needless largesse for Stalin's promise fo help with Japan. He must have looked forward to a partnership in the occupation ofJapan, as of Germany. 
The decisive fact was that FOR never quite grasped the global geopolitical realities. That 
P.O.Box Q  
ND and SMC can  voted to exclude them from the election. Six good -if initiated by students and bad if  the absolute truths of life, only articles with a  
really help the starving  other people on the Senate agreed with me produced by the administration. and voted to not reinstate them. Had there not Ifyou find yourselfwishing Notre Dame did been a secret ballot (which I opposed) you not have an alcohol policy, whereas previ­ unique style and perspective. Beretz's headstrong dismissal ofGriffin as an immature whiner who lacks intelligence, insight, and  
DearEditor:  would know who they are. ously you never would have noticed it, you're  Christian conviction is thecoup de gras. I con­ 
The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's response  That situation can still be remedied. Joining learning.  sider it a disrespectful swipe at a respected  
to the crisis in Ethiopia began as a small flick­ me in opposing the reinstatement of the Perhaps you blame Gerry Faust for a less­ priest and author. It would be a shocking at­ 
ering idea shared by a group ofstudents. They  Browne ticket were Kevin McGovern, Tim than-perfect football season and believe that  tack indeed if it was not such a glaring tribute  
had been thinking for some time about what  McDowell, Ted Smith, Rick Ruehlmann, he should have stopped being kind and con­ to his pomposity.  
they could do to help relieve the hunger and  Duane Lawrence, and Jim Domagalski. Also centrated on coaching. If you previously had  In the future, do not be so quick to assume  
societal problems in different oppressed sec­ opposing the reinstatement was non-voting sympathized with him because you thought  that everyone asserts their opinions as gospel.  
tions ofour world. When the immediate prob­ member Executive Coordinator Doug Wurth. that people were using him as a scapegoat,  Some people do not find it so easy to deter­ 
lem or Ethiopia became apparent, they began  The Browne ticket was reinstated by a one you're learning.  mine what is opinion and what is fact. These  
to think in terms of some sort of benefit -a  vote majority. Half the Senate disagreed with If that white stuff that came with winter  same people always seem to be right. Just ask  
variety show, or perhaps a social concerns fes­tival.  this decision. Some members have resigned in used to strike you as truly beautiful but now protest over the decision. Two points stand you consider it terrible, you're learning.  them. They will be the first to tell you. TedFitzpatrick  , -,  
With this in mind, they approached friends  out clearly. This in no way was unanimously  Morrissey Hall  ...,  
for advice and assistance. With the help of Fa­ decided by the Senate on the basis of Do you attend games and cheer about being  
ther Dave Porterfield and concerned friends, we devised the concept of a charity ball -a  friendship. And, the Senate must learn that is part ofNotre Dame only as long as the team is must abide by the rules it establishes if it ever winning and then mumble prayers in your  Freshman Year has  
joint campus family affair. As in any family crisis, the family bonds together in celebra­tion of its unique link. Similarly, the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's response is a unified effort to address the crisis ofour brothers and sisters in Ethiopia. The date has been set for April 20, 1985, in Stepan Center, on the Notre Dame campus, from 9 p.m. to 2 a.m., and the committees are geared and ready.The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's response promises to be unique. The entire family will be involved -undergradu­ates, staff, faculty, Emeriti(ae), and Adminis­tration. Our response will be a response in the Christian tradition and set a precedent which hopefully will be followed in years to come. The Charity Ball 1985 promises to be an ex­travaganza ­not a mere material extravaganza,  hopes to gain the respect ofthe students. sleep during Mass? Maybe you even blame a Tom Abood loss on a coach or a player and feel that the Student Senator, District 4 responsibility for a win belongs to the team and the community. Ifso, you're learning. Ifyou became a cynic before the start oftheDislike for ND learned semester, you precociously followed the Notre Dame tradition. Congratulations. through four years Yes, freshmen, we have much to learn from DearEditor: our elders. Too disguised as alumni to try to It has now snowed each day for at least four convince us ofthe wonderful legend of Notre billion years, and we walk to class five inches Dame. But by that time we should have gained above the real sidewalk. all the wisdom we need to resist such in­We freshmen were warned about these fluences. South Bend winters. . Now wipe that smile off your face (you So as the light flakes fall heavily on us, w~ at don't have to let everyone know you're only a times wonder about what happened to ttie freshman. ) and go practice your cynicism un­good old days. til it's perfect.  a po-sitive influence DearEditor: This reply concerns the Feb. 5 article in which the value of the Freshman Year of Studies was questioned. Until now, I thought that working at the Freshman Year of Studies and watching the freshmen year would have given seniors a similar perspective. Imagine, if you can, this University without the Freshman Year of Studies. Where would one go with a scheduling problem, the registrar? Good luck. How might one fin4 out about all the different majors, concentrations and fields of studies? Maybe by researching every department on campus? Probably not.  , 1, ~ ~ ..,, 1  
but a responsive extravaganza of people, joined together in human concern. A formal invitation to this event will be forthcoming. In the meantime, if you have any questiolls, com­ments, or wlllingness to become involved in this very worthwhile project, contact one of us. Danny Harrison, Cbatrman AnneMarie Ftncb, Executive Secretary FatherDavePorterfield, Advisor  But only at times. We're still freshmen. julie Collinge Some of us freshmen still love Notre Dame. Pasquertlla West Some still get a kick out oflife. Some still mar­vel at th~ fact that Notre Dame ever let us in. We're still naive. We'll learn. Beretz misjudged We'lllearn the importance ofdrinking ifwe want to have fun. We'll learn the importance Griffin's column of complaining about Gerry Faust, the dining halls, and the weather. Ufe at Notre Dame will DearEditor:  The Freshmen Year of Studies was not created to walk the confident, secure, self­motiva~ed student through the first year of college. The Freshman Year program was de­signed tO' introduce students to the university and the learning experience in general: A stu­dent can choose a field ofstudy before a com­JPitment has to be made. Rectors, resident Issistants, tutors, senior interviewers and the  ~ ,,,,,,,,  
soon educate us so that we'll know enough to I would like to congratulate Chuck Beretz  Freshman Year staff are all at the disposal of  
Senate vote was not a unanimous decision  blame our lack of initiative on a poor social on his amazing ability to refute Father Robert life. We'll learn how to humiliate instead of Griffin's personal viewpoint and to s~iftly es­encourage athletes who aren't perfect. tablish the obvious truth ­his own viewpoint. I once went to a party sponsored by Fresh­The Bernhard Goetz case is a very contro­ that student who needs help beingintroduced into the Notre Dame community. If the sys­tem is designed to help the most needy, most unsure freshman, then Notre Dame in general benefits.  
DearEditor:  man year. When I came home and innocently versial issue. Some people do not know or  Our drop-out rate is consistently 2 percent  
The recent discussion surrounding the reinstatement ofthe Browne ticket has left me  remarked to an upperclassman about what a care what happened. Others, like Griffin, are great time I'd had, she replied, "I feel sorry for willing to offer their opinions on this subject.  lower other schools. Schools around the na­tion are currently designing programs in the  
somewhat perplexed. It is as if people believe the senate unanimously agreed that since Pat andJoanic are our friends they should be back on the ballot. This simply is not the case. I like Pat and Joanie and having worked with them over the past year, I feel they would have made fine candidates. However, they broke the rules clearly and intentionally. I  you guys. You don't have the social life we Beretz immediately points out that the Goetz used to." Gosh, to think I might have gone on issue is vigilantism -no evidence, no mitigat­believing my social life was adequate. ing circumstances -just vigilantism, pure and We really have a lot to learn from the upper­simple. How does someone find these truths classmen. Many ofus have:: still to discover that so quickly and confidently? Is it as easy as flip­satisfaction is unwelcome here. The wiser stu­ping a coin, or is it a matter of deep intellec­dents have not yet convinced all ofus that dis­tual omniscience? satisfaction causes change. Change is always I . do not think Griffin promised everyone  mold of our Freshman Year of Studies. It cer­tainly is not the winters or the basketball team keeping the students at Notre Dame -the credit and the thanks goes to the Freshman Year the the entire Notre Dame staff for making this a better place to live and learn. Geoffrey]. Van Flandem SeniorInterviewer  
·­ 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. II does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views ol their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community. and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. is encouraged. 
Department Managers 
Business Manager. . _ ... Dave Taiclet Controller . . _.Dave Stephenitch Advertising Manager . . . Anne Culligan Circulation Manager. . __ Jeff O'Neill Systems Manager. _.... Mark B. Johnson Production Manager. . . _. Chris Bowler Project Manager . _Amy Stephan 
,
Founded November 3, 1966 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor ... News Editor .. News Editor _ Saint Mary's Ed1tor Sports Ed1tor.. Viewpo1nt Editor .. _ Features Ed1tor _ Photo Editor . .. 
. .. Bob Vonderheide . . Mark Worscheh . .... Sarah Hamilton Dan McCullough . Anne Monastyrski _Michael Sullivan ... __ Dave Grote .... _. Mary Healy . .... _. Pete Laches 
Accent 
Breakin' out of a bad fad, hopefully 
with a background synthesizer that The other songs are too that all the-energy and fun that might be fun to watch grass grow mediocre to mention, except pos­seemed to be inherent in break­to. The other offender among the sibly one. The song is called "Stylin', dancing was just a guise to get big
Tim Adams 
remaining songs is the second Profilin'," and it seems to sum­bucks. single from the album, "Believe in marize exactly where the senti­I figured if I remained cynical just the Beat" by Carol Lynn Townes. ments ofbreakers lie today. It ends long enough, I would eventually be
Record review 
T
My first reaction upon hearing it with two women talking about proved right. All it took was listen­was, "Flasbdance much?" Ifyou like buying fancy clothes and jewelry. I ing to this soundtrack. Breakdanc­he breakdancing phenomenon cliched songs about making it big, guess these always were the main ing has certainly come a long way. ~erved a very useful purpose in this one is right up your alley. concerns ofstreet dancers. I know hasn't it? Next fad, please. its fledgling days. It got a lot ofpoor 

and disadvantaged kids to do some­thing else besides stand on street corners and go nowhere. Break­dancing was fun and it inspired some intense non-violent competi­tion among the ghetto kids. It also unified the members of the black music community to some extent at a time when white music smot­hered the charts with its bland sound and polished looks. 
But now, breakdancing is old hat, and I think that the soundtrack to · Breakin' 2 Electric Boogaloo demonstrates what it has developed into -a big business that now neglects the original street-smart sensibilities that once made it vital. In short, Breakin' 2 is mostly noth­ing but corporate black music. 
Ollie & Jerry, the creators oflast year's breakdancing anthem, "Breakin'-There's No Stopping Us," again lend thdr talents to the effort. with Ollie Brown serving as execu­tive producer. They perform two of the better songs on the album, "Electric Boogaloo" and "When 
I.C.U." 
The former is a slower song than "There's No Stopping Us," but it is definitely more soulful. It combines a lot ofsynthesizer, electric drums, and percussion, much like "Breakin' "did. A hot, sultry groove grinds the song along, and some effectiv~ soul singing make this one a high­light. 
The latter is not quite as good, though. Its main problem is a lack of Jerry simply inserted some electric handclaps, or anything else handy. Still, these two songs completely overshadow the other songs on the album -all the other songs, that is, except a positively brilliant dance number by George Kranz called "Din Daa Daa." 
The people who compiled this soundfrack probably felt obligated to include at least one established hit, and this was it (It was the 5 dance song of I984 ). "Din Daa Daa" is danceable to say the least. The only "words" Kranz sings in the song are the three in the title. His silly lyrics are sung over some cool synthesizing and a heavy bass drum that's accentuated by handclaps (real ones this time), as well as backup singers who are also bab­bling nonsensical syllables. In the middle of the song, Kranz, who is playing the banjo, has a kind of duel with the drums. When this climaxes, both Kranz and the drums simultaneously do a soaring drum roll that slams -bam!-right back into the dance groove. Nonstop fun and nuttiness is what this song is all 
about. It's definitely the best track on Breakin' 2. 
That leaves seven other songs, and they aren't much to hear. The worst among these is "Gotta Have the Money," by Steve Donn. It's a horrifyingly insipid tune rambling on about how you need money If "you want to get the honey." The musical portion is equally as lame, 

The dating game -who's playing now? 
Dan Bums  You can't be abrupt or sound anxious. This may imply thar vou  worth going out with him? Decide what it will be.  a message. Ifyou do, I guarantee that you will never call him  
features staff writer  like him which gives him tht: advantage. It must be a smooth,  •Pick up the phone again and start dJallng.  back. Ifhe is there, forget every­thing you'd planned to talk  
H aving just finished my  and place where you'd Uke to  natural transition. For instance,  •Hang up after about the  about. Stutter and say  
umpteenth argument with a  take him. Again, many consid­ you could get him talking about  third digit. You're too nervous  "Uh...ummm...uh.." a lot.  
girl about their social restric­ erations must be made. Weekday  work or school or whatever,  to talk right now. Paranoia sets  When or ifyou relax enough,  
tions and the immature attitude  or weekend? Does he study or  keeping a keene ear for details  in. What ifhe says no? Or, what if  babble on mindlessly, talking  
guys have about dating girls, I've  work a lot during the week?  that pop in about what he does  he says yes just to be nice and  about anything; it doesn't matter  
decided to construct a brief  When can you go? Ofcourse,  or likes to do. Then you could  doesn't really like you? What if  what, but you have to keep the  
guide to the way girls should ask  there may have to be a sacrifice  mention some things you were  he doesn't even know who you  conversation going. Then he  
guys out. Afterall, In this day of  involved here as far as ac­ thinking ofdoing soon. Ifhe  are? Continue with this line of  asks you why you called. Excuse  
the corporate woman, there is  comodating his schedule goes.  sounds at all interested in them,  thought while you get yourself  yourself to go the bathroom.  
no reason why women shouldn't  When that's determined its time  then nonchalantly slip in: "Well,  something to eat.  When you get back, mumble  
handle an equal share ofthis  to decide where you're going.  would you be interested in  into the phone. When he says he  
burden.  Should you go to a bar? Res­ joining me?" It'll be smooth.  • Sit back down determined  couldn't understand, take a deep  
I suppose this won't be as  taurant? Movie? A place where  Very smooth.  to do it thJs time. Pick up the  breath and try to stop trembling.  
much ofa guide as it will be a  he knows people? This is risky,  phone and dial.  It won't work. In as round about  
description of the anxiety in­ you may hate his friends or  •It's time to call. The show is  a manner as possible, ask him  
volved In the dating process. But  worse, they may hate you.  over, but you just love the next  •Itrings once. Hang up! Fast!  out, or announce that your thor­ 
hopefully, Its lack ofdirection  Maybe someplace where you  one, so again you can't call now.  Are you crazy! This guy might  ough bred golden retriever has  
will result In a briefbit ofinsight.  would know people. Uh oh, then  In fact, everything on t.v. tonight  actually be home! just what are  just had puppies and -would he  
Ofcourse, some guys will read  he would have to meet your  is great! You'd better call tomor­ you about to do then?  like to have one?  
this and think: "Who is this  friends. How about someplace  row. It'll be too late to try later  •Decide to bag the whole  •Be relieved... No matter  
wimp?" But hey, I'm Joe  where neither ofyou knows  tonight.  deal. He's not that cute anyway.  what he says, especially ifhe  
Average, not joe Stud, so here  anyone? That's a toughie too,  •Repeat the three last steps  Fall asleep on the couch watch­ wants a puppy. You've done it!  
goes:  you'll have to talk to him then.  for a week or more.  ing TV. Then wake up and go to  You can join the league ofreal  
Beginning to see how it's not  •Have you really gotten  bed, disgusted with yourself.  people now. It's over, and it can  
•Decide who you Uke. Now  quite as simple as it sounds, huh?  thJs far? Ifso, congratulations!  •Now, Ifyou've come this  only get easier from now on.  
this is not quite as simple as it  But you still have a long way to  far, there's a good chance  Until, ofcourse, the date.  
sounds. Knowing who you like  •Wait. Sit in your room and  go. This time leave the t.v. off, or  you11 make it. Getting past the  
takes on a radically different  watch TV, placing the phone on  on but with the sound turned  previous step is the key. Few  Now ladies, you have some­ 
perspective when you find your­ the table or floor next to you.  down. No distractions this time.  people do. After much deliberat­ thing resembling insight. I chal­ 
selfin the position to do the  Maybe he'll call you.  Rehash in your mind what you  ion, decide that you're really,  lenge you to put it to use. But  
asking out. Do you really like  want to say. Revise and do it  really, really going to do it this  remember, screw-your­ 
this guy? Enough to stick your  •Decide to call him.. at the  again. Now pick up the phone.  time. No ifs, ands or buts about  roomates and formals don't  
neck out and ask him out? Will  next commercial. He hasn't  •Put down the phone! You  it. You're going to do it. You  count because you can always  
he like to do the same things you  called, He won't. Well, that's not  still don't have your planar­ think...  get away with asking a friend to  
do? What can you do with him  really enough time to talk, so  ranged well enough yet! Revise  •Thinkabout it as Uttle as  one ofthose. I'm talking about a  
on a date? Does he even know  walt until the show is over.  it again. Wipe the sweat from  possible. Pick up the phone and  real, on-your-own, honest-to­ 
you're alive? Each ofthese is an  •Make a mental listofthe  your palms on your pants leg  call him. Ifhe's not there, do not,  goodness, old-fashioned date.  
r  important consideration.  thinp to say and talkabout  and reconsider whether or not  I repeat do not under any cir­ Give it a shot. Or else quit com­ 
•Start thinking ofa time  lead.ing up to "the quesdon."  you really like this guy. Will it be  cumstances leave your name and  plaining!  

---·-------------------~-----~----~--­
Thursday, February 14, 1985 -page 8 -9 
Valentine's Day-for lovers and legends 
Sharon Hook 
features staff writer 
Y
ou've heard, ofcourse, ofthe Grinch who Stole Christmas. I was almost the Grouch who Stole Valentine's Day. 
Last night, I was feeling com· 
pletely disillusioned with 
Valentine's Day and the commer· 
cialism that surrounds it. So, I gath· 
ered up aU the valentines on north 
quad and climbed to the top of 
Nieuland to dump them. 
Then I paused and put a hand to 
my ear. Asound came rising over 
the snow. 
Four men in black tuxedos were 
singing a love song. I hadn't stopped 
Valentine's Day from coming. It 
came without lace, without roses or 
cards. It came without lollipops, 
candy or bards. And then I thought 
ofsomething I hadn't before. Maybe 
Valentine's Day doesn't come from 
a store. 
Perhaps Valentine's day means a 
little bit more. 
I have long grappled with the 
meaning ol Valentine's Day. When I asked studt·nts to cummelll on Valentine's D:!'' ' heard such things as, "It comes around every February 
14th," "It's a hell ofa time to kiss a girl," "I love it because it's for Lovers," and "It's a good excuse to tell someone how you feel about them when you're too chicken the 
rest ofthe year." 
Thus,iftoday turns out to be a typical Valentine's Day, flowers will be sent, cards exhanged, and words oflove will be in the air. 
Besides wondering · why your roommate and not you, you may be wondering how February 14th came to be the extravaganza that it is. Who was Valentine and why is this his day? 
Actually there wasn't one St. Valentine, but three. Two from Rome and a third who suffered in Africa (ofwhom nothing more is known). Ofthe first two, one was the Bishop ofInteramna (the 
present-day Terni ). Bishop Valentine lived under the reign of EmporerJulian-a time when Chris· tians were persecuted mercilessly. He strengthened those under him in true faith and showed tremen· dous benevolence to the poor. It is said that one cold night Valentine passed a naked beggar on the street and took off his own garments to give to the man. Soon after, an angel appeared and told the bishop that the man had been Christ who had taken the form only to test Valentine. For his kind deeds, Valentine was granted several graces, one ofwhich was the gift of curing diseases such as epilepsy. When the Roman Governor Placidus discovered that Valentine had cured two people of their il· loesses, he had him scourged and thrown in prison. When Valentine did not weaken under these punish· ments Placidus had him beheaded. 
The other man who deserves recognition on this feast day is Valentine, a priest at Rome. This Valentine lived during the reign of Emporer Claudius. He was well known at the time for his high­
spirited personality. Even the Em· 
porer wanted to be Valentine's 
friend but Valentine was too eager 
to praise the name ofthe Christian 
God and proclaim the Roman gods 
as false. 
As a result, Valentine was accused ofsacrilege and was at length be· headed. Before his death, however, Valentine cured the judges daughter ofher blindness and con· verted the judge and his entire family to Christianity. 
As far as the traditional associa· ti.on oflove and expression oflove on Valentine's day goes, there are a couple oflegends that may be ex· planatory. It was a conventional beliefin England and France during the Middle Ages that on February the 14th, halfway through the second month of the year, the birds begin to pair. 
·Thus Valentine's day became a day for lovers and the perfect time to send tokens oflove. 
In Rome, when the Christians finally took over, they chose feast days to coincide with some existing Roman holidays. Valentine's Day comes close to Lupercalia, February 15th, a feast honoring a couple of Roman deities. 
During the Roman celebration, the names ofyoung Roman women were put in a box and drawn by young men. The chosen lady was considered to be "going steady" with the boy who picked her. Chris· tian Romans maintained the Valentine box custom. But instead ofdrawing girls' names, they drew the names ofsaints that they were to emulate for the coming year. But it seems drawing girls' names was more fun. The Roman youth reverted to the original custom. It has survived in the form ofschool· room Valentine boxes, for some 2000 years. 
Whatever the legend, whatever the reasons, Valentine's Day seems to be the one day on which our society condones madness. So, go a little crazy. It is a wonderful excuse to recklessly proclaim ones affec· tion. Despite all dangers, one can say, "It's Valentine's Day and I love you." 


the heart... 
"We think Valentine's Day is great because Notre Dame men get so passionate." -Paulette Hearing and .loan Bowling 
"Valentine's Day is a capitalist fabrication for retailers to earn revenue." 
-Bob Brogan 
"Valentine's Day is great when you have someone to spend it with. it can be depressing when you have to pick up Dowers for your roommate." 
-Sean Lynch 
-astudent of philosophy 
"I usually give Dowers because they always work. They're the best thing you can give a lady." 
-Pat Clymer 
"It's sweet like candy and red like loving hearts. As a Marine. this disgusts me." 
-Mariana Karam. 
"If I'd want anything I would want a dozen roses." 
-MaryGodi 
"It's a wonderful holiday. my fiance will call me." 
-Lyndy Webster 
The Observer Thursday, February 14, 1985-page 10 
.. Tbf! Obsen>er Notrto Dam.-Qfficto. locattod on the third floor of LaFortun.­Student Ctontrr. an·topls classilkd advrrtising from') a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's oftk.-. lo~·at.-d on thr third floor of Haggar Colkg.-Ctonttor, acerpts classifit'ds from 12:.~0 p.m. until ~ p.m.. Mon­day though Friday. Dtoadline for nrxt-day dassifieds is ~ p.m. All dassifi.-ds 'Ill!•! J,, pr, p.;'r1 •·'rh~r in ptorson or hy mail. Charge is I 0 l·enls pn fivr charac­rl·r~ ·r ll&l\ 
Classifieds t{j 

VALENTINES 
Ch.,e Squeak, Je veux que ce /()Ur de Ia Salnt-Valentln soil Ires specials a tol parce que tu I'ea a moi. Je ne sais pas comment te remercier pour le bonheur que tu epportea a ma vie, et je ne peux que te dire: Je ra.me.. 
Andrea, even though you ·ve gotten "the rock," I'll stilt talk to you anyway. And one ol the corny things I'U say 11 "Happy Valentine's Day." Here's to the four most spastic years of my Hie. 
Love, Marc 
ROS$-1 LOVE YOU .... RICH 
CECILIA...The -kend In Chtcago was a blast! How about another go at it for my birthday/Valentines Day? Love, Bruce 
BRUCE...Alter that weekend in Chicago, I've decided I never want lo see you again! Happy Buthday/Valentines Day anywey. Just friends, Cecolia 
D.L.T., HAPPY V-DAYII WISH I COULD SHARE IT WITH YOU, IIUT INSTEAD I'U SKI A "BLACK" FOR YOUI MISS YOU. LOVE, KATE 
TO MICHELLE IN PW--HAPPY VALETINES DAY TO A REALLY SWEET GIRL WHO'S A LOT OF FUN TO BE AROUND. LOVE, SOMEONE WHO CARES I!! 
Happy Valentines Day not. 
Marci, I've always aaved you. -Will 
Attentionll There wiU be an emergency meating of the Lonely Hearta Club ol Notre Dame TONIGHT at 7 In the com­puter room. 
Happy VD to aN my HP friends-eap. Gall (Thanlca lor everything!). Thanl<a lor put­ting up with me. Ken. HeyNDCnrwTeam, Let'e kick "A" In Auatinl-Trey 
C.utOLAHN-
WIU UBE MY VALENTINE 4 EVER? 
XOXO MJ 
Phil You.._, more to me than words can .,.,., aey. h'a gonna '-! cauae you're my beat friend and I love youl!ll U.. 
&.an, 
I think you're the greataat! Sorry I couldn't be In your .,.,. lor VMenttne'l Day. 1'1-you SOON! 
Love, 
Thwon 
....,Y........'eO.,T­
F!WR rour SYI'Iclate. let'l do It......110111811-. 
MAliA. Wll you be my V-ne or hu Wog lllolen your ha.t already? V-day k'-fty to N. 0. meny Urnea quickly on our favorite holiday. 111 ldeeea lor me tocteyl (put It on my lib.) Mllee won't keep me from wllhlng my Teddy a-1 H8PPY Vlllentine'a Day. Je T'alme, Johann 
.:t:\m''vAiimii:ifi:s··i>Avi··:r~..;;;y··;;;: 
vorite Grlnch. Te amo. You're a apecial guy and a apedal friend. Love alwaya, YourArWnal 
Mary c.~ thought I'd almply wiah you. Happy VMenttne'a Day without aaytng anything at II peraonal. Slncwety, Brue11 P.S. I love you 
E-. I'm certainly not Olvla nor Madonna -~ the "aponge". But by a TWIST OF FATE, you've become my LUCI<Y STARI In my repertoire, though, I'm jult STUCK ON YOUI Happy Valenllne'a Day! Love, Am 
Fuddy, Happy Valentlnel Day to e wo­men th811 am vary luclly to have met. Matt 
KfNie: You've been my IIIAbility thia y-. and aomeone I've grown to love. Thanka lor all o1 you. Love, Your Grumpy a­P.S.OHNOI 
I can'l drive 56-from my thcx9>ta. So to my grizzly -.whoMmore gnzzly on hla flee than hia heed) I give my love(and Other muah) u tong u ~ doean't Interfere with hla nning.(You know whet women can do to an athelete!)HAPPY V.O.(and mono too) Love, KRISTINE 
I Love You. Cindy 
Slw, Mard and AI-HIIIlPY Valerlllne'l Day to the thr" best bezoo roomrnatea. I wouldn't -you tor anything--weN, AL· 
MOST anything! Love ya, Chria 
Dear COMMUNIST HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY from the Nerd CHEMIST 
Oh, ~ only I could see I Cute Wedneeday Smile on Valentine's Dayl Bul If's 
Thursday. 
DAHLING, What can I say 'capt I LOVE YOUYour,HONAY 
Dear Mtss Chaleckt, Heppy v.o. (Thai's Valentine's Day for all you degenerates) Love. The Washington Monument 
DEAR JAY, I LUV YOU DUDE, HAPPY VALENTINES DAY MICHELLE 
Marky, 
(Everyday I love you a teeny weeny bit more. Happy Valentines Day! Love, Julie 
Bobby, (Hope your Valentines Day ia "better than perfect!" ... even though you always beat me in raquelball. 
CWTCY ... again! Love, GL 

.............................................................../ Meura Heppy VD (or something like that). 
4 EVER 2 GETHEA, 4 YEARS 2 COME, 4 LOVE 2 STRONG, 4 US 2 PART WHAT MORE CAN I SAY KEL I LOVE YOU WITH ALL OF MY HEART FRANK 
Happ Vday to tha guy chicks dig' From your blond girlfriend, in SB, at NO! 
JIMMER:How about some Baileys with your Valentine? 
raja I am aazy about your body, and I love your mind. Would you be my date tonight. your's S. Buff loves you too. 
JodyO. JodyO, JodyO, 
Miss you Lots. Happy Valentine's day. 
BABS Happy 1/211L Y! ARM 
Kathy the JepCepp major, here is your very own Valentine from someone who should see more of you than he does, even though he's got a claaa with you. Time thea when you're aaleep moal of ft. So, like, when are we gonna have that pizza? Heppy Valentine's Day! 
Love, Fellow Cotton Club Membei 
DEAREST F.L. 4, YOU'RE THE BEST VALENTINE IN THE WHOLE WORLD! IF YOU COULD ONLY liE A BUCKEYE! PLEASE SMILE AHD liE HAPPY! I LOVE YOU I KEL 
Celeete: Happy VDay! I do like your cute legs more than you could ever imagine! 
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY, BILL! WITH GUYS LIKE YOU, LARCHMONT, NEW YORK, MUST BE A FUN PLACE! EVER THOUGHT OF BEING A FIREMAN IN­STEAD OF A DOCTOR? LOVE, THE SMIUNG YOUNG LADY FROM THE OTHER SIDE OF THE WORLD. 
JACK, YOUR COVER GIRL MOOEL LOVES YOU NOW AND ALWAYS! HAPPY VALENTINES DAY! 
Mlaa MAURA ANN: WIN you be my Vlllentine? ~?!? -your little boy 
P.S. Have you '-ned to ak8le with two feat yet? 
SUSANNE From a bNnd date to a ~ aurpriaa.Happy V-.tlnea Day Love Den 
... and thwe'a a song in my songbook that aaya "Thank you lor the -love you made tome... 
YOU MAKE ME SMILE WITH MY HEART 
PAm ANNE ROSES ARE RED VIOLETS ARE BlUE LIFE WAS AL­RIGHT BUT MUCH BETTER WITH YOU HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY LOVE. BOBBY 
LADY, THIS ISN'T EXACTLY THE WAY I HAD HOPED FOR US TO SPEND VALENTINE'S DAY. YOU KNOW WHERE TO FINO ME IF... HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY AFTERALL. SIN· CEREL Y, MIKE 
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY MARTY YOU'RE THE GREATEST! LOVE, MO 
IJMCLEDAYE· 
ItOW A80UT A lliG MD IIALLOON I'OR lALLY? HAPPY VALENTINES DAYII ME YOU TOIIIOAROW. 
Dougiaa, HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY!! I LOVEYOU!Uz 
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY, ANN! 
Happy B day Shannon. I really enjoyed the nieht we _.t together! Lela do IT again. Now youl be legal! Love me 
BAMH OEFYS THE 14th I RomariC8 Ia pointieaa, Valentines are dumb, men are piga men are scum. 
BETSY, I think you're really nice and I know you're very busy but nyou could find the time. would you be my VALENTINE? Tom 
Dear Notre Dame Chapel Choir, eap&­cially SOPRANOS and ALTOS: HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY!III Love, Your Sacr• tary 
Jake: one year today! Only You and Me could have done It so perfectly ... 
To My Valentine: T'OC, the adventurer, warrior, lover, acoundrel, psycho, can­didate, NON-sem. I LUV U. AER!!I! 
BRIAN CASEY HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY! 
FROM A FAN 
MagandLiaa Today is a day in which I want lo dwell Upon certain people & wish them well 
These people now that I wish to acknowl­edge Have added tmmenaely to my tun had at college The number one has got to be Meg Who pretends to study like she's a Chag However itappeara that this is not so true As she sips at a bottle that looks like a brew When we ask Mag what's that in her hand "A TAB" she slurs as she barely can stand Now expanding lhis idea of alcohol abuse We turn to Lisa who exemplifies its use I am not being mean ~ it's more out of respect you 'II see Thall admire her ability to drink Chablis And nol only one glass I might add • it's much more than that I've seen her guzzte ..... A ten gallon val In a sense its tronic-as we see Meg in her study carroll And then we observe Usa in her domestic wine barrel But enough is enough as I just want to sey I hope you both have a Great VD Day 
Suz-where are you? I love you! Bam 
Jo, what can I say? I love you. James 
Chrla, H.,..• the meaaege. "Marla M.­-Who'a yourbeet buddy?" Love, D.B. 
Ouerido Garlos--Ouiero desearte un feliz dia de Santa Valentine, y te decir que no puedo esperar hasta el dia cuando seremos solo tres: !IU, yo, y Max! !Los van Aavenswaays! Te amo MUGHO. 
ART, JE VEUX TON CORPS! JE VEUX T'EMBRACEA PARTOUT! JE VEUX BAlSER! BONNE JOUR DE eT. VALENTINE!II GROSSES BISES,MAAIA 
Short and Sweet, just like me, wishing you the best, Marc Antonetti! with love, your little eh.·Cheryl! 
Linda B.,Unde V.,Emi, Mimi,Backy,Baan,Pani, Maria,Tere,& Jamina, HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY TO ALL MY SWEET FRIENDS! Love,Maria 
WB, HAPPY V-DAY, AYE ROVE RUE, TJW 
PETE MURPHY WE LOVE YOU, WE LOVE YOU, WE LOVE YOU, WE WANT TO LOVE YOU .. . BUT ONLY IF WE CAN LOVE BUCK TOOl HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY! J,A,ANOK 
Deareat EZ. (UZ) I know Ita been a while bull stil love your atyle, Your ipa are tender, Your hipa are alender. Your smile Ia true, Your ey• are blue, And on V-nea Day I LOVE ONLY YOU. I LOVE YOU ALWAYS TONY 
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY MJS 
LOVE YOUR FAVORITE CPA 
DEAREST BIGGUMS: VALENTINE WEKENDS ARE TO BE SHARED. ARM IN ARM AROUND THE CAMPUS WE WILL WAll<. I LOVE YOU MORE NOW THAN EVER BEFORE. YOURS FOREVER IN LOVE TOM 
MIKE HARVEY TODAY WAS MADE FOR SWEETHEARTS LIKE YOU. HAPPY VALENTINES DAY! 
LOVE, MARY 
TO ALL THOSE I LOVE, (GRACE AND HOLY CROSS,SMC) HAVE A GREAT VALENTINE'S! LOVE ALWAYS. ALICE XO 
JAN, HAPPY VALENTINES DAY!! BE MY VALENTINE FOREVER. I LOVE YOU. JOHN 
ATM, I LOVE YOU! HAPPY V-DAYI LOVE,LAL 
JEAN DALY:.._.,Clllldy anda pi'* lloyd lllcal\....... --.Ill you -far ValaniiM'a Dey?? ......... rourK----'-' 
Happy VO Day, Jeannie Bean, Ping & 
w.-nor• 
To Shawn, Kate, Maria, and Lori TomybestBUDS of all-Happy V-..Jnes Day, you DWEEBS 
andGOOBSI!! XOXO. Lester the Dancing Kodlac 
SCOTT BARBARA Did you gat the KISSES? (Chocolate, that ia ... ) Hope you have a Happy Valentines Day! 
Love, your very secret admirer from SMC 
The Doc, The Gen. Hondo, Hon­d81ta,(Suzan), The Dude, and Fannie Happy Valentines Day to all in Bexley! 
Love you guys, Anna 
P.S. Do you guys read the personala? 
Arthur Higbie Helmus had a little awellmus righl in the middle of his pellmus When he was good he was very very good and when he was bed he was beher!! HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY!!! Love,Gu""" Who? 
BEATS: HAPPY V-OAYI I WANT TO CONGAADULATE YOU ON TUES· DAY'S PERFORMANCE. I ~""W VOIJ COULD DO IT. YOU ARE lHE:. t:IE:.::il. HAVE A GREAT DAY! I WISH I COULD BE WITH YOU, BUT WE WILL MAKE UP FOR IT ON FRIDAY, KO?! I LOVE YOU, LEEN 
Chris Garey -------You are absolutely positively the most wonderful and ex­traordinary, sensitive, caring human being on the lace of God's green earth. I love you! XXXXXOOOOOOXXXXXX Guess Who. 
H, Hearta is Hearts, But PARTS Is PARTS, And Art's Parta are Cloee to my Heart!! Love ya,Maria 
JPF-MY EYES SAY IT ALL! HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY! LOVE, EMH 
SHAGGY: 
Surprise! Happy V-day! No one will ever take the place you've won in my heart. Sei mein Freund lmmer. Your little Squish. 
My little liebchen heppy Valentine's dey! 
VIRGINIA MARY Will the speed limll sign and your good buddy share the same fate as the leprechaun? I hope so, remembar the surge is coming, NO G.I.'S II nol we can dye our hair, I love ya P.S. VENDETTA-A NICE ITALIAN WOAD 
SPONGE-Heppy Valentine's Day! Soak one up for the Gipper! 
Love, Edwardo 
Joe Murphy, You are a realsweelhearl! Thanks! 
The Cookie Queen 
Dear Mo. Just have short note to wish you a Heppy Valentines Day. Thanks lor all of everything. Have a super JPW. Love­Frank 
To my ding-dong: I always thought 7 was my lucky number. Nowiknowwhy. Tanks for everything. Happy Valentine's Day! Love, Your Preciousess 
Kathe Lach: You are the sweetest of se­ael sweethearts. You're fun to do nice things lor! love. S.S. 
Team America To the king-our muter of mirth and minister ol merriment to the Queena-renown as parielala violalora and tag-team romancers o1 albNng swon:1arnen to the lord-the kings brother by Rice Prince ol Pillowhead, aoon Pa­tron St. ol tardlnen and abaenteeiam to Gealic swordsman the youngw-not the toN ol hla fellow fencer -FROM • the minstrel ol the awordamen's origin, u ~in Ieasure. Maul Happy V. Day! 
Unte Sparrow, Have a Super lrlpii'H be hwe when you return. I love you, -L.enoodd 
Greg, Thanks lor being a supw friend. 
-uan 
Mega: Have you mlaaed the'-' shuttle? You LULUI Have a Happy Vlllentine'a Day, BuiCIIIIy. Hugs and~. TOMMY 
Hey SPORT! Nolhln' too muahy, eh? Wla­hlng you a Happy V-ne·a Day! Keep up the "GOOD WORK"! Scared? Love, Bil 
Jenny, Roaea are red, Vloleta .,., blue, Brian'aa~guy, andhe'agoodloryoul AConcerned Friend 
K!ITE Even though you're not here. HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY. Hope you dldnl break your legll! Love T.l.O. 
MBW, Happy Vlllentine'a Day! Lola of love, hugs, 'n ki-. KK 
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY! 
/Wihy Shannon Kellin Murphy KMen Koatecky 
MMir Oulgiey 01-.Yodet 
BobDirlllen 
c.m.s.~<er 
John Grey • 
Cindy Weeks KUII Holzbetlein Lain Dowd«< Mike Hamlin Krllhy SommfH PIIUI MonfOomely UzFior Leo Gomez Molly McGinnia Michael Weeka Marianne Bellon and 
Cwo/Cemy 
Lola of LOVE, Usa Marie 
LT-1 love you! DO 
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY! DORENE Moosey and I love YOU!!! 
Happy Valentine'• Day Uaa V. lrom 
lllelll8h 
BAI WIH you be my valentine today and forever? I look forward to our life logelher. 
I love you. Sempar Fi, Elaine 
Goober, Happy Valentlne'a Dayf My dear. darting, •-heart, pookl•
_, 
Youarehot! You're the roee,l'm tha thorn. Butlikethem,-Clln make it together! L.A.C., you're the greateat thing th81 hu evw happened to me. Believe me, t .,..nIll 
I love you, and 1111-ya will! MR. "D.S." MOUTH 
KMC-YOU MAKE ME TINGLE!!! LOVE VA BUNCHES.me 
I can't be with you on Valentine's Day But in a wink I'll be back here to stay' Then on to Chicago to see a museum or play, And do other tun stuff !rom now tilt mid-May. BUT in the meantime don't let your kisses stray, When all those girls try to make you their prey!! Heppy V.O. I LENT YOU!! MAMA 
Fever for ftesh ..CD Man.. J.B. 203 K.Halt Watchout 
hey .... YOU I love you. Tiger! 
SHEUY: Happy Valentine's Day. I Love You!! Your Brother 
GOOBERS: I Love You!! Sofia 
Mo K. (Curly & Larry too) 4 yeara of fun-­Dances, Walks & Jogs Carrage House. Barnaby's, & Cones; But mostly Huge & Kl-Love, Steve 
Bobby, I love messing your hair up, your argyle sox, being 'just friends', your movie tines, your 501'8, watching your eyes change color, being ·more than just friends', having a Valentine, us. But more than all of that...! love you. Heppy Valentine's Day, baby! All My Love, Usa 
Freshmen of 1-N Lewis, From Trivial Pur­suit to the beech par1y, Exotic Chicks Rule! Happy Valentine's Day! Love, The "K"Man 
A"ii:r·.··wiU:.vou'B'fi'"Mv'ii:.\Lfi'NriN·E:;;· 
Love,Maria 
MARY BETH, HAPPY V-DAY FROM YOUR ANNUAL VALENTINE 
KEN LUMB, HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY, HUN! I MISS AND LOVE YOU I ANDREA 
My Deareat Fullle, I love being your Valentine and calling you mine. We are the best team. Don't ever let got HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY! All my love always, D. 
SUE:! LUV U Nke the ROCK o1 Gillnultrer(in llltly),LUV BILL&HAPPY VALENTIN 
DearL.J. ''The b.--..-yand amelledol beer'' 
But lllept well knowing you -enear We had a lew. we laughed, welalked But when I Mid lela DO IT you blllked We laughed and laughed and la1qled _,.more But alll...,.ed was to Score We decided 10 welt 'til all wwe gone Eapecialy Mike, Charley, & John While we chatted I admired your hoM And then 1001< !hem all with the real ol yourclolhea A MCUrity guard aprang throu{tt the door And carne upon ua -8flrWII)ed on the floor The Iunny thing Ia-the door-·•locked Th81'a Chertey'a IIIUH -hla pay lhould be docked Then the olllcer •-eus from our deep 
liumber And kept demanding my 10 number At this point the feeling -not elation It-more Nke I needed an 8 week v­tion And who could gu-Tyson would 8CI ao 
lanatlQI And sand ua on our ftra1 NbetiCIII But we had lun -It-the beet But whet about the pregnancy teat? H, Hthe rMiblt dlee Nobody wll believe our ally old lee But even~ our future Ia not 1oo~to me Thwela lltil one thing I'd Uke to­And th8l Ia that Senior Bar lnv•t In bed­ding But that probllbly won't happen 'til 1111w thaweddlng 
Love. Q.F. 
CHRIS MONDERO, THANKS FOR THE FLOWERS. HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY! CAROlYN & MICHELE 
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY TRACEY! LOVE, YOUR BUNKIE 
I LOVE CHRIS CAREY 
My dearest Mary ENzabeth Scumbeg, Your Neat, Your Sweet, and you've Big feet But I flke you, I love you, I care alot And thla wil be 'til my heart-rot So have a great Valentine's Day And I'H try to prevent any decay Love, Dave E. 
I loveCHRIS CAREY 
TO OUR BELOVED SISTERS! HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY JUDY H. ALICES. SHEAR! F. PATTIT. LOVE, YOUR BIG REO BROTHERS 
TJD 
This is to, um, wish you ... uh ... a Happy 
Valentlnes...yea ........ Valentines Day!!! Love you! MERYL PSTHWUMP! 
To Vel and Cro Kissing Ia sweet: hugs are nice too He better propose now, else by May you 'It be through We are your friends, as nice as we are We must tell you now that you've gone too far These 5'octock meetings, we want you to see If you're not too careful, then there witt be three In en­ding this poem, It must be conveyed For staying out this late, you deserve to get -. Heppy Valentine's 
TAACY-ALLMYLOVETOYOU. I HOPE YOU COME TO THE SAME CONCLU· SION I DID. I KNOW THE BEST WILL COME OF IT. HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY. LOVE, VAUGHN 
STACY MILLER DEAR STACY. EVEN THOUGH WE'VE NEVER MET, OUR EYES HAVE SPOKEN MANY TIMES. SOON WE'LL MEET. HAVE A HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY, EVEN WITHOUT ME. LOVE, TBNS (IN ENGL CLASS) 
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY TO SOME SPECIAL GIRLS: CAROL FREDRICK, LISA FLESCH, MARY SIEGEL, PAULA BOUAJAILY, ANN ZORE, KATE FIS­HER, CARRIE ALTERGOTT, ANNETTE PETERSON, AND EVERYONE WHOSE NAME HAS BEEN LEFT OUT TO PROTECT OUR INNOCENCE. SCHAF & PHILSTEA 
HAPPY VALENTINES DAY TO MY MORRISSEY MEN: Bobby, Tommy, Mickey, Jimmy, Chiabuna, J.D.. B.O., Kollea, The Dangler, and Oulu... Love lrorn your favorite, ??? 
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAYIII Breth Liesel, the Jolt-dweller MC Road Whore Odelte 
Ali 
Maybell 
The Dizzy One 
The Scrumplehe 
Karbear 
Jen 
LOVE,AMC 
To Paul, my favorite pimp--Thanks tor taking me straight to hell!! What a trip It waa...Heppy Valentines Day!!! -THE FUZZV LITTLE BUNNY 
To the QUAD WITH THE REVOLVING DOOR and LEWIS 1-W (the best section on campus), Heppy Valentines Day!! Love,J.A. 
To Snookuma-• You're gorgeous, sexy, and I love you Iota. You drive me aazy and give me the hota. HAPPY VALENTINES DAYII Love, the wild one. 
PetJblee-Where are you? I mlea you. Happy Valentines Day! Love. Bam 
Dave:Solale mien? Karen 
In 130 Keanan you don't have to beg Jusl go In and lllk lor GREG II he'a not !hare, you know whellodo Tum around and give It to BRU But K you went to give In to a whim You can try aomething ,_with JIM And '-'but not leut, lora big, aloppy Ida You know you e110 always count on CHRIS! HAPPY VOl LOVE, THE TRIP 
Where'aQ? 
JP, Happy Valendne'a Day S~l You're the Grea-! I LOVE YOU! Gretchen 
GTW, Who could realat 11011180<18 with ecruplee? Happy Valentinea Day YBAMFS 
MURFU$-HAPPY V-DAY ... Love, Suaie 
and Sally 
CHRISTINE, I love you. JACK 
Mlu Young, (The Michigan Mauler) Definitely looking forward to this week­end, u ..,.. aa the 23rd. You make It aN worthwhile. Spending today with you Ia belter than a Phyaica Final, alrnoat. Let me be your only V-ne. baby. My Love Always, The KID 
Halo, Requeatllne? (I mean V-.tlne): Sweet Thing, we're inaeparable; being with you always glvea me the 'aazlel'l You're way cool and I )uat love you to deeth.. . .. no really! Joe 
DEAR JTG, You are the SMGW in my lil•a Ioiii -tie. Happy V-neal Love, the "slop that" girt P.S. Keep thou leal on lee. 
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY TO IIIU HARDY WHAT ABOUT THAT TRIP TO CHICAGO? JUST LET ME KNOW ... 
135 and 222 ALUMNI Happy V-ne·a Day. LoveyaaN. Eap. Bruce. Love. Mary. 
MY DEAREST MARK; THINKING OF YOU ON SAINT VALENTINE'S DAY AND EVERYDAY. LOTS OF LOVE, MELODY. 
T0313 ST. ED'S; HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY FROM YOUR '5TH' ROOMIE. 
A collective Valentine wiah lor my favorite 5TH YEAR ARKIE MEN: HAPPY VALENTINES CAVIll Love, 0 XOXOXO 
To my manyroommatelll Maggie. Malice. and Joenne: I could not uk lor better friends even ~ my Ina depended on It ~ cauae I moet certainly am not capable ol finding any better. HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY. Love,AnnleP. OulnnorlsltReuben 
Shoeboxhead-happy valentines day!! Win you be my valentine? Thanks lor a bunch of memorable holidays Love Mary 
Joanle loves Chechi Happy Valentine's Day, ~idl 
The Observe£ Thursday, February 14, 1985 -page 11 
There once was a Badger named Pete ERIN WELL KIDDO TODAY IS THE BIG TED-IIovethewaythatwhen l'mw/you I Hey Corbett! Have a super V-Day! LOST: ONE GOLD AND PEARL SENIOR CLASS SKI TRIP selhng my $25 Whom I was so lucky to meet DAY-AT LEAST ROOM 416 IS MORE suddenly experience an interior convul~ Love, EARING. FRIDAY NIGHT. COULD BE reservation..call PETE AT 4259. CALL "1a brightened my year FUN THAN STUDYING CALC, OR sion, producing a distortion of the cindy ANYWHERE. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL AFTER12AM. 
He gave me free beer SHOlll r iAVE A MICHELOB LIGHT features, accompanied by inarticulate 284-5158. 
And that's why I think he's so sweat: ,r,c. i tAc AM SURE LOOKING FOR-noises. Get your mind out of the gutter! I Floppy Dtaka Maxell MOl-D $22/box WARD TO FEB 23 AND SPENDING mean I love the way you make me laugh. CHRIS(boyfriend) FOUND: APAIR OF WHITE MITTENS IN MD2-D $29/box Also have Dysan and MORE TIME WITH YOU. HAPPY Happy V-day. Shall we go to LaFortune to IT'S A SHAME WE CANT CELEBRATE THE OBSERVER SMC DAY OFFICE. Verbatim Will sell disks individually Call 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------~----------~~--­
TICKLE IS FICKLE VALENTINES DAY TO A REAL SWEET­celebrate? Wear an inner tube so I'll rec­OUR ANNIVERSARY AND CAN CLAIM M-F 12:30-3 PM. Dan x1903 HEART. LOVE "CLOSE TO IOWA WITH ognize you. Love, the kind of girl you want VALENTINE'S DAY BETTER. MAYBE 
ONE STOPLIGHT" to marry WE CAN TAKE OFF SOMEWHERE LOST:One BURGANDY ASCENTE TO THE REAL WOMEN OF 4C. AFTER JPW!? WHADDA VA SAY? I jacket in LaFortune. If you took it, aeci' DESPITE THE 4 FEET OF SNOW, WE Greg. Happy Valentines Day to our favor­MOODY BUT CUTE! Hey good looking. LOVE YOU dently Or otherwise. please return it. If 
[ TICKETS
JUST WANT YOU TO KNOW. THAT WE ite little brother. Love ya' Julia and Jeanie what's cook'in? Raviolli? Want to neck? ME(girlfriend) you·re not willing to give up the jacket. HOPE YOUR ARE WARM AND GAY ON No Hickey's but don't forget the mayo! I please return the IDs. I've been looking THIS VALENTINES DAY. LOVE FROM Davey, Its' been 1 1/2 years. The best love you! From a bluechip frog. Happy V­forward to this coming weekend for going THE MEN ON CAMPUS. years of my lffe ... When I walk with you ... I D! Cera, Mary Ann, Tiish, Missy, & Myriam on 21 years, and it just wouldn't be the IF YOU GOT IT, I NEED IT !! I NEED guess thats why they call it the blues! (the 6 clique) same without my license. Thanks Patricia 
FOUR (4) GA'S FOR THE BYU GAME. IF HI HONEY JUST HAD TO SAY 'YOU Happy Valentines Day' Raaaah!!l Love. PEGGY PEGGY PEGGY PEGGY x2910 YOU CAN HELP THIS DAMSEL IN
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY to the 
ARE THE ONLY ONE' THANKS FOR Sheila II II DISTRESS PLEASE CALL RAMONA AT
greatest friends in the wortd. Get psychedTOLERATING MY FREAK OUTS. RE­LOVELOVELOVELOVE for sun, sand and surf in a month and HELPIIIIIost my Uncle's watch. It was a 3714. 
MEMBER AS BRUCE SAYS TWO Flash and Reggie, We owe you one. ·uuuu counting. The 6 clique & Puddin· does silver Bulova Acutron with the inscription HEARTS ARE BETTER THAN ONE.' Thanks for being so incredibly sweet. JOEJOEJOEJOE Florida! Love, Tracy "George Backhaus" on the back. The NEED 2 GA's for BYU!! Will pay bucks! LOVE WALDO Call John 1567
Happy Valentines Day! Love, Your Dam­band was broken off on the right side of sels in Distress the watch face. Please call Paul at 3300 or
Happy Valentlne'a Day Teaa 
HELP! Family coming to visit! Sister BEST. THANKS FOR ALWAYS BEING Michael and Pat. Happy Valentines Day Reward $$$ offered. would die to see Rivers play! Need tix for 
TO THE QUAD YOU GUYS ARE THE JAMINA. come up to 302 Keenan. Delinate
From your SYR date. let's do It again sometime.
THERE. LOVE KERRY to our favorite "Dunkin Donut Dates". We I'M SENDING MY LOVE, HONEY BYU game! Call Gretchen at 1270. love you even though you need a little AND TRYING NOT TO BE FUNNY Found:a SMC school ring at Junior For­TO A LITTLE GIRL WHOSE NAME IS work on your one liners! Love, JP squared mal call Bill x3267 Need 2 G.A. Marquette tickets. Call Dan 
To the wise Korean
SOOZ WHO ON LAST SATURDAY BUT THERE'S A TICKLE IN MY EAR 2360 
You're a ploning, scheming, conniving.
DRANK MY BOOZE AND THROUGH AND THE SOUND OF BELLS NEAR Lost: RED DOWN jacket. Last seen at the 
and devious person. but that s what I like 
THE NIGHT JUST DROVE ME MAD­to al 'the goalie' haverkamp you are 1 on Clubhouse at St. Mary's on Friday night. PLEASE HELP! Need 4 or 5 BYU GA's. 
about you!!! Some things I will never for-
THANKS FOR THE BEST NIGHT I'VE and off the ice. thanks for being such a SO IF YOU'RE FbND OF THE RING Please return. call Bill at 4644. No ques­Will Pay BIG BUCKS.Woody 1188 
get:
EVER HAD. -THE GLOB--great big bro. I'll miss you next year. love AND CAN FEEL CUPID'S STING tions asked If you don't return it within one
"Its too acidic! .. 
Need 2 GA's for MARQUETTE call ROSS "lt"s not acidic enough!
your little sis. week, Harold S. will hunt you down!! 
DEAR MARY BETH(NICE HAIR) IT'S JUST A SIGN 1897 
''I'm not home!!' 
THANKS FOR THE GOOD TIMES FOR YOU TO BE MY VALENTINE. LOST: black onyx ring and men's razor SORRY ABOUT MONDAY AT SENIOR Need 5 GA or Student tix for BYU game!!!
"This is a fine mess you've gotten me out of yellow VW rabbit parked in lot eastInto!! ' 
BANK. HAPPY VO! LOVE, THE SMC BETH C. MATT of stadium; call239-6423 with info. Call SMC 5323 
"Fric and Frac in the kitchen ...
OYG-BAM BAM· "Fric and Frac in the MG.....
THEY DIDN'T HAVE ANY FLOWERS LOST-maroon scarf in Cushing Tues.
"What grade did you get? I got an w~·
Hey Airport--Here's your Valentine. THAT SPLASHED COFFEE ALL OVER Happy valentines day all lonely hearts of 2/5. If found, call Liz 1992. 
"Listen, the story about Junior Parents
Surprised? Happy Valentines Day. YOUR SHIRT, SO I HAD TO GIVE YOU NO! 
Weekend really isn t necessary if you 
PERSONALS
THIS-HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAYII You aren't alone, so don't despair. HELP LOST I lost my keys at the brar or
need the room to party. Would you like me
YO GOUL-Thanx fer everything. By the somewhere behind P .W. My roommates
to move you off the Junior Parents floor 
way, how's what's her name? J. K. Happy P.S. DON'T TELL ANYONE ABOUT dont like me and keep locking me out. My
and on to the floor where all the other par-
Valentines Day sweetheart. Love ya. THIS-THEY TALK TOO MUCH AS ITIS!I Nina. you're beautiful inside and out! rector her keys to my car so now I can'I OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, 
ties are?'" 
CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., "Aaah. da. duh, that will be just fine. 
"Buthon" drive. (H. V.day-A.G.D.) iF YOU SEE A 
ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. Happy Valentine·s Day .... and here·s to a
Happy Valentine'• Day -Normal Mul­SET OF KEYS for room 522 on a ring with 
THERESA, Figured you'd be looking for ter! a blue plastic hook call LOU at 411 0-help 
GREAT weekend!!!!
"the" ad. Thought this might help you find FROM THE WISE TRON
lt. Happy Valentines Day. Next week we'll Need ride to CHICAGO Northwest sub­
HAPPY V-DAY TO 323 PW,LOVE TJW LOST: A thin green and black plaid wool get out even earlier than this week. Hope THERESEL. Last MTV video dance urbs. Weekend of Feb. 15-17. Call Fran at 
scarf. seen at 
·································~······························ 
Mr. Ireland sends you roses! Love. Your 2598.
LIL CAB: SO GLAD YOU ARE NOT IN around 1:00AM. fellow sufferer. THIS NOTE SHOULD MEAN TWICE AS 'BAMA TODAY. HOPE YOU HAVE A Shank. Bob. Chris, and Dan. If you have it please call John at1725 MUCH TO YOU; GREAT V'DAY. REMEMBER I LOVE Happy Valentine's Day! Thanks for the Need ride to NORTHWESTERN or Hey R.J. What can I say? We've had two NOT ONLY IS IT YOUR VALENTINE'S nearby area. Weekend of Feb. 15-17. Call 
YOU! SEE YOU IN K.C. IN FOUR card and the present inside. To celebrate LOST: months of good times. Shared smiles and DAY CARD, GIFT, AND ROMANTIC MONTHS. LOVE, BUPPO. Valentine's Day we'll hit the hot dog stand One ski mask and a pair of gfoves Miriam4174. your Gorgeous green eyes. Somehow MOMENTO FROM ME for a change. Love, Cars, Mary Ann, 
lost in the A.C.C. south dome monday South Bend Is a nicer place As long as I (HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY) Molly Tracy, Kelli, Trish, Missy and Myriam. night IRISH BOXER SHORTS!! 
can see Your beautiful "Nose". Happy BUT IT IS ALSO YOUR LONG­Keenan Revue, Tri·MII, and Strawberry should have been near the risers setup $5/pair Valentines Day. Love. Me. AWAITED CHRISTMAS CARDII Daquerlea. Ketll & Debbie there. call Liz at 2761 
423 LyonsI laugh at you Happy Valentine's Day!! It's bean a fun If found please call2339. 
Happy Valentines Day Highland--You are FROM YOUR FORGETFUL BIG BROT­Ed year and 3 more months to live it up! Love, very special to me. I hope you always re­HER WHO FORCED YOU TO PLAY Tracy 
NEED RIDE to U. of I./Champaign this Loveya, Me. Friday to Sunday. Call Marya at1276 or 
member that. "Here's to the weekend." WATERPOLOI! If you stole my Accounting book from E 
O'Hi' Tris Duinn, alias CJF. A-run. A­Frisky and Ooga! line in the North Dining Hall, you'd better chree taen me. Love The Celtic Lass Happy VD, with or without 10. return it to the Lost and Found in the Ad 1296. Hey C. J. Happy Valentines Day! Love, 
The Capt. building before I find you.,­Your roommate. Hey J.T.. Smiley, Scruffman. and RIDERS NEEDED TO NASHVILLE CATHERINE M. Cheeser .... Happy Valentine's Day! WKEND OF FEB 22. CALL MIMI ] 4283. 
LOST: Man's Timex watch outside of an
Hey Mo Stubbs--Happy Valentines Day! ....... (T.B.) 
KK: 
ACC raquetball court Monday nite, Feb 4.
Love, Cathy. yor lit'l sis. HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY-GUESS Thanks for the card. Hope all goes well. I have "come on down,.. now where do 
I'm not sentimental but I miss the little guy. 
WHO (LOOK UP IF YOU CAN'T PPMMHH 20 Min. U&l Luv The Boy How 'bout dinner at your place? you want me to go?-Tony A. 
Contact David at x4358. 
Mum and Daddy; Look what's happened GUESSII) Mel to that little yellow bundle of twenty-one PYATTY It's you and I all the way--S. This marks the beginning of ALEX CANO 
FOUND: ONE LOOSE CAR KEY,
years ago. Happy Valentine's Day and I'm Bar,Late Nights, STORIES fll70 points week. He will be accepting hugs, kisses 
FRIDAY, 2/8, NORTH QUAD. JOHN
glad you're here! Love Onni Love, The Boy Patti & Mary Lynn and smiles all week. 
2483.
AMYS. This is your Valentine's personal. Happy Happy Valentine's Day to the Goddess LEENIE BABY-DOLL, HAPPY Valentine's Day. Hope your dinner is a hit Peg. did you know our guys could 
DID YOU REALLY NEED MY PHYSICS
Quad' Thanks for all the great times we've HERE IS YOUR VALENTINE'S CARD .. I VALENTINE'S DAY AND 14 MONTHS!! M.L. Patti, we'll hit the dining hall for our cook???? 
BOOK SO BADLY? IT'S GOOD TO
had so far, and here's to all the ones yet to HOPE IT ISN'T THE ONLY ONE!! EVERYTHING IS THE GREATEST!! I "special" dinner. Love. Tracy KNOW THAT THE PEOPLE HERE ARE come. Love, the fourth 
LOVE YOU TONS, CUTIE!STEVO BLACK ONYX RING (birthday present)
SO TRUSTWORTHY. IF YOU HAVE caroline and men's RAZOR stolen out of yellow
ANY CHARACTER YOU'Ll PUT IT
Troy, I bel you neverthought I'd send you You goddess.
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY Anne-Marie. basketball/production BACK WHERE YOU GOT IT, NOT THAT VW Rabbit in parking lot east of stadium. a valentine. but I f1gured you deserved 
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY JANET AND Betsy, Cush, Francie. Jack1e. Joyce. Happy Valentine's day. Win tonight, ANY HOPE OF taken 2/12 a.m. Please call 239-6423
I HAVE THAT...YOU 
one for making Sunday nights so nice. RANDY! BOOPSIE AND POOH ARE maybe I will come and watch Signed
Julie, Julie, Kris. Lee Anne. Mary. Mary. HAVE OBVIOUSLY SHOWN YOUR with info. 
Happy Valentine's Day with love. QUITE A TEAM! HAVE A SWELL DAY! a friend
and Maureen, and all my other fnends TRUE NATURE. TOO BAD YOUWE'LL HAVE TO LUNCH SOMETIME 
THANKS FOR EVEYTHING' YOU ALL Rider needed to Marquette Friday Feb. 15 
COULDN'T HAVE LEFT ME MYTO MY DUMPLING JIM: ROMII are red SOON.-E 
Leave 11 :00 A.M. Return Sunday after­Vloleta are purple, 
ARE THE BEST' HAVE A GOOD ONE1 PAPERS. NOT THAT IT MATIERS. BUT 
noon. Call Lisa 283-2895 My dumpllnela aweet, TO AQUABOY IN ST JOE'S HALL 
-GML-I NEEDED TO TURN THOSE IN TTOO 
BAD I FORGOT THAT PEOPLE CANTSoIa maple aurple. HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY! 
ISABEL, DAVE. GRAM, AND AUNT PAT A message to all members of Campus
BE TRUSTED
Happy Heena Day with Iota end Iota of HOW ABOUT ANOTHER "MEET" NOTICES I· 
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY! HOPE IT Crusade for Cthulu: Cthulu is about as loveI From your Cuddlea TONIGHT? 
WAS A GOOD ONE! powerful as a soggy baloney sandwich. WINNER GETS COOKIES. 
FOUND: Set of keys (5 on one chain) Turn to Jesus Christ. the source of all ANNEMARIE, 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234·8997 
LOVE. outside the NO Library on Monday. Call power. Believe it or not, Jesus still loves it was really good to see you. Hope you LOVE. TRICIA 
272-3491 to clal'll. you more than ever' Repent! Amen. have a great Valentine's Day! And you'd 
TYPING AVAILABLE 
TO my better haij in 213 McCandless I will 287-4082
better read this. Hey, DIANNE! Looky; your first personal­
LOVE you for more than one night JUST TED FITZPATRICK IS A GOO. LOVE,Love, Marc and on Valentine's Day.too! Love. CHAS 
DONT GET A GLASS EYE Have a great THE PUERTO RICANS. day and PLEASE dont poison us tonight PRQ-TYPE Computerized typing service LOVEYAPETE 277-5833 TIM GAMMON
FOR RENT
Delta, are you ready--to be my Valentine? CHUCKlE, 
TIM GAMMON Happy Valentine's Day! Love always, 
DEAR ASYMMETRICAL BOB HATER Typing/Word Processing-Term Papers, TIM GAMMON Pumpkin 
your the greatest STAY away from the Gin HOPE YOU'VE FELT MY LOVE
Resumes. etc. Editing available. Call Semi-furnished home, good neighbor­
and Tonics and Ill stay away from the bas­Andrea-9-11 pm. 283-3880. THESE FOUR DAYS PAST AndI I may have missed your birthday. BETH: I never see you anymore, but I hood 255-3664/288-0955.
ketball courts FOR YOU THE WORLD I'M AWAITING THIS EVENING but how could I forget you today? miss you anyway! Love. the other 
WHEN I'LlMEET YOU AT LAST. choral( e) member 
LOVEYATONS NEED TYPING. CALL DOLORES 277· 
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY. Bo -I'm so glad you never gave up. Now 6045. PICKUP AND DEUVEFIY. 
Monday Night Club: Goats, Rufus, Linus, s.s. it's finally my turn to say I Love You. PHOOMPER:I leal a certain ... And now I 
and Van: Happy Valentines to our favorite EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL
Happy Valentine's Day! Love you. Jo know why you want to go swimming. WANTED 
heartbreakers' Love, Mary lou, Moskie, 
MRS. COKER, 233-7009.
Happy Valentine's Day! SPLOOIE. 
Judy. Colleen, and Carrie FORGIVE THEM JOANIE AND PAT Diane. Thanks for a great Sat. night. Hope 
FOR THEY KNOW NOT WHAT THEY we share many more. HAPPY Dear Little K, I love you and always will. NEED RIDE TO WESTERN CHGO
FREE OFFER: Whoever rifled through 
HAVE DONE. VALENTINE'S DAY I Love. Mike (Bronx) Happy Valentines Day. Love ya, Big K SUBURB, FEB. 15 KATHLEEN 284-4416 
Nado. my backpack in the library Saturday and UR my special Valentine stole my walkman • you can stop by my room to pick up the AM/FM tuning pack 
STUDENTS TO IMPEACH HEALY CLUB Kerry "Waldo", HAPPY VALENTINE'S To The Guy With The Sexy Hair: Just 
I Love u, FORMING NOW. CONTACT YOUR
and extra set of batteries. Call Kurt at
DAYI wanted to say that even if ya didn't wear Female roommAte wanted to share 2­
NEAREST REPRESENTATIVE. "As the day gets longer. an orange shirt, Van Halen didn't show bedroom apt. $175/mlh fl utilities. 277­
3249. P .S. Thank you so much for not 
Bitsy 
taking any of my books.
My love grows stronger. up, you won't pierce your ear, and you 4122 
I PITY THE FOOLS THAT VOTED FOR And this fever gets worse." didn't invite me to the sauna. I still had a 
Dave, HEALY!! Thanks. baby. IT'S A SLOW BURN! great time cause-"Ya Drive Me Crazy!" I need a ride to Chicago area on 2/15. Call
Happy Valentine's Day Sweetie! Love, Happy Valentine's Day! --The girl from Tom 1078. 
THANKS JOANIE AND PAT FOR nm "the whiz" Lyons or was it Badin or what??? 
Love. GIVING US A CHOICE. IT TOOK A LOT
LOST/FOUND I to
Angie Need ride or riders COLUMBUS OF COURAGE TO STICK IT OUT. YOU To "Doc" Rivers: Only licensed doctors Fri. 15th -17th. Call BonnieatSMC 5482. 
ARE 1 WITH USI KELLY & KELLY CAL -RED ROSES. EXPOSED BUT­are permitted to give ME physical ex­
TONS. DINNER AT 6:00, PLAYING aminations. However, If you have a RIDE NEEDED TO CENTRAL PA. OR
BABE. Roses are red, Daisies are fine ... LOST: GREEN SWEATEA IN CUSHING, GUITAR, THE 240 SINK, AND YOUR stethoscope and some rubber Oh, how I have tried to find another ROOM 208 IF FOUND, CALL JOHN AT WASH THIS WEEKEND -CALL NANCYJ
gloves, D.C. RED TOOTHBRUSH. LOVE IT ALL. M. maybe we can negotiate something. JOHN 288-1096
rhyme, but no words can describe how 2196 NOQUESTIONS ASKED I'D THROW A DISK our Love has grown over time. So, Happy FOR YOUR TUNA BISQUE
Have a good one!!! V.N.C. from Chimown Day, Happy A! Thank you for a beautiful WHO COULD EVER BELIEVE THAT
Matt J.C. LOST: N.D. RUGBY LETTERJACKET IS Want a ride to SYRACUSE (or Ithaca) this 
year. Now here is the line. Will you still be SOUP WOULD MAKE OF US SUCH A
Today is the day that roses ere key STILL AT LARGE. REWARD FOR ANY weekend from Fri to Mon? Call Bill at That is ... You're supposed to send them to .:i~j;~'li;;i~~ii;{~-.~-o~;;·;~·;;;~·;;;;;c-·;:~;;;: my Valentine? INFORMATION LEADING TO THE AR· FUN GROUP?
4073 JEIII 
me ily! Remember--EXPOSURE!! Love, Joe REST AND CONVICTION OF ITS CAP­But~ you don't order any-that's okay QUEEN LIZ YOU'RE THE BEST TORS. PLEASE CALL J.R. REID AT WISCONSIN BOUND? I need a ride to 
MARGI,
I'm not materialistic anyway! Sheri Richards and T eri Kaiser A.• VALENTINE IN THE WORLD' I LOVE 277-7561 IF YOU HAVE ANY KNOWL­anywhere in southeastern Wisl:on-sin. 
EVEN THOUGH YOU ARE MY SISTER I 
But Boy, more gold beads would be really Remember--PMACI! Happy Valentine's YOU. REX EDGE OF ITS WHEREABOUTS. Call Robin at4086. 
CAN OBJECTIVELY ANDnice Day! Love, Joe UNEQUIVOCABLY STATE THAT YOU
But I'm not spoiled -I'll sacrifice WALT, TO MY INSPIRATION, HAPPY LOST: A pair of black Aris women's size Established band needs a bass player. 
ARE PRETTY SPECIAL.
Besides I don't just want to take. take, LYNN CASSELLA. Thank you for the VALENTINE'S DAY !! I LOVE YOU, small gloves in rm. 208 O'Shag. I know Call Matt 2937 or Pault578. take "Precious Present"! Happy Valentine's DENISE. somebody has them. If found, please call ·cuz I don't enjoy things for my own sake Day!! Love. Joe Stephanie at 3738, or return them to 244 
JOHN ROMNEY YOU WENCH!
I love to give and gel nothing in return Someone special is having a Valentine Badin. Thanks. Money and goods I do not Yearn T.F.S. "See Birthday! Have a good one Debbie! Love, 
..............::......................=~."';"; ................ BEST TIME-BEST VALUE: WHERE:.
FOR SALE
Now, I know you're thinking-Mel.this is a Me..... Langen's 000 All-Mama D and Dad LOST: pair of black gloves on Sunday DAYTONA BEACH!! WHEN: SPRING
big lie State Ren. Cen./Spring Break 88-25-evening in Rock. They are gifts from BREAK '85. WHO: ALL ND/SMC STU­
You'll be materialistic 'til the day you die 7 Thanks! Ditto! Love and Debbie's 19 today! Happy Birthday to a somebody very dear. Please call 1 167 or DENTS. CALL 239-5136 OR STOP BY
Okay. you're rightit'sagoodlife I demand Hershey's Kisses, N.M.L. (H.T.H.) great sister! Love. Mike and Jenny live them in Rock 5 BEDROOM HOUSE. FULLY FUR­SENIOR CLASS OFFICE, 1.5
But to be with you Matt -I'd give up a P.S. Happy Valentine's Day and NISHED. CLEAN AND IN NICE NEIGH­grand Happy Birthday' Happy Birthday Debbie Darrow! You are LOST: ONE BROWN FOZZY THE BEAR BORHOOD. GOOD INVESTMENT. 
LAFORTUNE, MON-FRI, 6-9pm. 
More than a grand?-Well I'd have to think the greatest sister ever! Love Tom WATCH SANS WRISTBAND. NO REAL $24,000 288-3109 EVENINGS 
WORSH ·YOU DEFY ALL REASONING 
twice HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY MONETARY VALUE BUT I AM WILLING 
You're alao an lnctadlbly lazy
You'd probably have to be especially nice MARY ELLEN HAPPY V-DAY ANNE LOVE VA TO PAY TO SEE MY LITTLE FOZZY'S APPLE lie Software: Wordprocessing 
hornclog!
But that's later -and with that thought I LAST NIGHT WAS A RIOT PEEP SMILING FACE AGAIN. THANKS. Package $SO(negotiable); call4364 won't play X4t73 lnatead I'U wish you a Happy Valentine's ZARFS STEREO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT-ALL Day Happy V .D. to all of you LCL POSITIVELY the sweetest of them lost: pair of gloves and hat left on bus after BRANDS AT WHOLESALE PRICES· see CLASSIFIEDS, page 12 aU! Juan Chicago Trip please bring to Dr. Hofman TOM1527 
Sports Briefs 
The ND/SMC GolfClub will be meeting today at 
6:15p.m. at gate 2 of the ACC. For more information, contact jane. 
The Obsen,er 
An indoor soccer tournament is being held 
by NVA, beginning Monday. The deadline for submitting nine-player rosters is tomorrow. For more information, call the NVA office at 2 39-61 00. -The Observer 
The SMC varsity baseball team will be hotd­
ing tryouts beginning Tuesday from 3:30p.m. to 5:30p.m. Anyone 
who is interested may contact the reservation desk at the Angela 
Athletic Facility for other scheduled practices. -The Observer 
Knee injuries from sports will be discussed by 
Dr. Leslie M. Bodnar, senior consultant of the Notre Dame sports 
medicine program, on Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the football auditorium in 
the ACC. Admission to the lecture is free.-The Observer 
An interhall swimming meet is being held by 
NVA on Tuesday. Hall representatives must submit a list of entries and divers must provide a list of dives to Dennis Stark by Monday. For more information, call Coach Stark at 239-62~2.-The Observer 
A racquetball tournament is being hetd by NVA for all members of the student body, faculty and staff. There will be three divisions: one for intermediate players, one for advanced players and one for mixed doubles teams. The deadline for entries is Wednesday. For more information, call the NVA office at 239-6100.­
The Observer 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Thursday until 4 p.m. at The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Briefs must be clearly written. -The Observer 
Thursday, February 14, 1985 -page 12 
Irish determined to make meet 
Women go to NSC championships 
By MARY SIEGER 
!)ports Writer 
Neither ice nor snow nor gloom of traveller's advisories can keep them from this meet -the meet billed as the highlight of their season. 
Despite treacherous weather con­ditions, members ofthe Notre Dame women's swim team left for St. Louis, Mo., yesterday afternoon to com­pete in the North Star Conference Championship meet which starts today. The Irish geared their entire season toward this meet and were unwilling to let a little snow get in their way. 
Notre Dame is ranked at the top in the North Star Conference and is the Conference's defending champion. 
Last year, Notre Dame dominated the championship meet and is hoping to repeat its performance this weekend. 
The Irish compiled an impressive 11-1 record in the regular season giving them confidence for this weekend's competition. The only blemish in Notre Dame's record came last semester when the Irish lost to a tough scholarship squad from Bowling Green University. 
Sub-zero temperatures cancelled a dual meet in late january with Ball State University, one of Notre Dame's fiercest rivals. The meet was never rescheduled since both te.tms were booked until the end of the season. 
"I'm disappointed because it would have helped us get ready for the Conference meet," said Notre Dame head coach Dennis Stark ...It would have been a very close meet." 
The team's goal at the beginning of the season was to build its pro­gram and improve last season's 6-5 record. This year's 11-1 record and convincing victories over teams who defeated the Irish last year reflects the team's development. 
..We have more depth this year," explained Stark . ..There is no ques­tion of improvement because of the depth factor." 
Junior co-captain Venette Coc­hiolo will guide the Irish during this weekend's meet. Meanwhile, sopho­more distance swimmer Suzanne Devine and freshman Amy Dar­lington will pace the team's attack. 
Men try to continue winning streak 
By KEVIN HERBERT 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's swimming team will try to extend its six-meet winning streak when it participates in the Midwest City Conference meet t<>iiay through Saturday. 
Notre Dame will be competing against seven other Midwestern schools, including St. Louis, Xavier, Valparaiso, Loyola (Chicago), Evansville, Butler and Oral Roberts. 
The Irish come into the meet swimming better than ever. Last weekend they swept a triple-dual meet over Vincennes, St. Louis and Xavier, and in the process the team set no less than 1 0 new season 
record~. 
Notre Dame will carry its six-meet winning streak and its 7-4 record into the Conference meet in St. Louis today, trying to dethrone last year's champions, Evansville. 
In this meet one year ago Notre Dame finished a strong second. As Coach Dennis Stark explains, it is going to be more difficult for the Irish to finish second or higher in the Conference meet this year. 
..We would like to win the meet," said Stark. ..However, since we graduated nine players from last year's squad, we are not as strong as we were a year ago." 
The meet begins in St. Louis at 
9:30 this morning and will continue through Saturday when the finals begin at 7 p.m. 
If the Irish are to challenge Evansville and their other oppo­
nents, then their dependable swim­
mers will have to perform up to par. 
"Our dependable people are going to have to come through for us," said Stark...People like Mike Kennedy, Paul Bens and co-captains Tim Bohden and Brian Casey are going to have to swim their best if we are to be successful in the Con­ference meet." 
Last year the Notre Dame swim team finished second behind Evansville in the eight-team Mid­west City Conference meet. Today the Irish will again take to the pool in search of a conference champion­ship. 
Minus nine quality swimmers who graduated last year, Notre Dame may find it very difficult to repeat its second-place finish of a year ago. 
Classifieds 
Cll.A Retreat-Feb. 22-24. All interested, please 51gn up at the CSC by Friday. Feb. 
15. It W111 be led by Miriam Therese Mac­GIIIis, OP. Coat: $7.50. 
continuedfrom page 11 HEY GUYS! LISTEN UP! SHANNON JUDENE WALSH IS NOW A LEGAL 
Pua-aa·aa··1uh. aa-duh 
ADULT! CALL HER UP TODAY AND 
Pud·da·d&·duh. da-duh 
WISH HER A HAPPY 18TH BIRTHDAY Pud-da-da duh, P8tric18 Qulnllll\8 
(3140)1 SHANNON WE LOVE YOU! ­Pu~uh, da-OUHI 
FROM MARIEL, STEPHANIE, HEAT­Sung to the tune of H•ppy Blrthdey. 
HER, BECKY, MARY, MARY. AND HIID on Sundey from your 18M. 
FRANCES. HAVE A GOOD ONE!! 
I am what I am and that's all that I HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY Anne-Mane. am!!!!!!!l!!!!!!!!!ll!!!!ll! Betsy, Culh, Francie, Jack1e. Joyce. Julia. Julie. Kns. Lee Anne. Mary, Mary. SOPHOMORES See RICHARD GERE and Maureen. and all my other friends in BREATHLESS at the Soph. V-day THANKS FOR EVEYTHING! YOU ALL study break-tonight 8:00-10:00, 2nd floor ARE THE BEST' HAVE A GOOD ONE' Lafortune. FREE admission, cookies and -GML· drink. 
FOAGET FLOAIDAII SKI ASPEN, NEED YOUR CAR SHOVELED OUT? 
COLORADO THIS SPRING BREAK. 
CALL MARK 1597 AND Gt1 A TAN TOO $397 INCLUDEE 
TRANSPORTATION. 7 NIGHTS PROGRESSIVE MUSIC CLUB T· 
LODGING. AND A6 DAY LIFT PASS 
SHIRTS: If you otdered one, pick It up WURLD RELIGION/CATHOLIC 
SUNDAY, 3-4 p.m. In 341 KMMn. DIALOGUE 
HI SEXY! OH HERE WE GO! HAPPY C.plllln Extenelon-1 
Sc01e aher flfst innmg 
VALENTINE'S DAY ... LOVE CINDY. 
............................................................ 
MARKR.
F•ther G0<8kl -0 WE HAVE ACHEIVED FUSION II II 
FYOUGOTIT.I NEED IT I! I NEED4 B.C.
GA"S FOR THE BYU GAME. IF l'Ol' CAN HELP THIS DAMSEL IN DISTRESS PLEASE CALL RAMONA A f 3714. 
THE EARLY.~
BIRD... -~~~ 
PREPARE FOR: Classes Starting Feb.16, 17 


-------~-----­
-------~-~~----------­
The Observer 
Water polo team in rebuilding year 
As the Notre Dame water polo team enters its sixth 
season, the club finds itself in a rebuilding year. A year ago the club placed fourth in the Midwestern water polo con­ference, which consists of 20 teams -both clubs and var­sity teams. 
Gone from that team are goalie Chris Packer, the only Irish player to achieve first team all-conference honors, and former captainJohn Smith. Therefore, junior captain Michael Roberts and fellow juniorsJohn-Coffey and Tom O'Reilly have the task of rebuilding a young inexperi­enced team. 
"We don't have any seniors on the team this year, so there will be considerable pressure on John, Tom, and I to be the leaders both in and out of the pool," said Roberts. "However, we are all looking forward to next year because our improvement and experience will once again make us one ofthe better teams in the conference." 
Last fall the team played conference foes throughout the Midwest and also traveled to Virginia, Washington, D.C., and New York to play interconference games. In all, the team compiled a record of nine wins and 12 losses. 
"The level of water polo is steadily improving in the Midwest," said Roberts." Many teams in our conference are becoming varsity and in the near future, we must also make that transition in order to maintain our com­petitiveness. And with the new pool, the athletic depart­ment's interest in upgrading our status to varsity looks promising." 
The team itself has many standouts. Roberts led the team in scoring for the third staight year, netting 86 goals this season. Sophomore Steve Gauther also was a major factor in the offensive, scoring 55 goals. On the defensive side, Coffey and O'Reilly are the major components. And Matt Dolan, a high s~hool All-American, will add depth to the Irish line-up. 

The team has started practicing for its spring season, 
which begins with a home tournament in the Rockne 
Memorial during the second week of March. 
ROWING CLUB: With the Rowing Club competing in the Mid-Winter Classic in Madison, Wise., senior John Younger captured first place in the five-mile race on the rowing machine. Younger, rowing in the varsity lightweight division, won the event in a time of8:17. 
The club itself has been training in the Rockne and the ACC in preparation for the season which starts after spring break. During the season, 80 of the 100 members ofthe club wil train in Texas. 
SKIING CLUB: With the regional meet completed last weekend, the ND/SMC skiing team hopes for the tele­phone call that will tell them that they are invited to the Invitational Meet in the Upper Peninsula. 
In the giant slalom on Saturday,Tony Jordan, John O'Donovan, Julie Currie, K.K. Meyer, and Sheila Smiggen qualified for the afternoon race in which only the top six finishers from the morning run could participate. OnSun­day,Jordan, Currie and Smiggen, as well as Chris Simonet, Kateri Gaffney, and Usa Hamann qualified for the after­noon meet. Jordan was the only one to place, finishing third in the duals. 

Righttoyourdoor. 
(Within a two-mile radius.) 
Call us anytime after 5 p.m., order a 

medium or large pizza piled high with any combination of your favorite toppings, sit back and relax. We'll be right over. Just think, hot, thick and delicious Godfather's Pizza, loaded with mountains of toppings and smothered with a thick layer of cheese. Mmmmmmm .... Are you hungry? Call Godfather's Pizza now. We'll be right over. 
277-5880 

52929 U.S. 31 North 
Delivery available only at South Bend location. 

The c:>bsrrvn fVtc Guarino 
juniorforward Trena Keys led Notre Dame with 21 points, but not that norMary Beth Schueth's 17 was enough as the Irish fell to the Crimson Tide at Tuscaloosa last night. Larry Burke's story is on page 16. 
TUGO'WAR CONTEST!! 
Halftime of ND Halftime ofND Women's
• 
Basketball Games 
LEE JEANS will be sponsoring a Tug 0' War contest during the last four Notre Dame Women's basketball games of the season (Feb 20-March 6) Participants can win great prizes -including an entire outfit, courtesy of Lee Jeans. Audience giveaways too !! 
You can enter a team to represent your dorm just by filling our the application form below. T earn weight restrictions are 700 pounds for women and 1,000 for men. Male and female dorms will be teams together. SEND IN YOUR APPLICATION TODAY. Teams will be announced early next week. 
APPtK:AlioNFORM-------------, 
Yes, I'd like to enter a team in the Lee 1~ Jeans Tug 0' War contest. I My dorm is _____________~l Name_______Phone________.l 
Send to: Jim Ryan I Sports promotions Director I Dept. of Athletics I 
1
Athletic and Convocation Center 
I Notre Dame, IN 46556 I 

The Observer Thursday, February 14, 1985-page 14 
Notre Dame, Faust have another quality recruiting year 
By TRISH SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
With a good portion ofthe season over with and the race for an NCAA tournament birth getting heated, the major news in college ath­letics comes not from the hardwood ofbasket­ball, but rather from the gridiron of football. Yesterday, Feb. 13, was the official "National Letter of Intent" day in which top high school prospects make the major decision on where to play out their collegiate years. 
For the past four years, Notre Dame's ac­quired corps have impressed the recruiting experts, and once again, Gerry Faust and his staff appear to have nabbed some blue­chippers for the Golden Dome. 
"We have some real quality kids and quality players coming here," comments Faust. "We are a little dissappolnted in the lack of defen­sive linemen this year. We wanted a least four, but so far only really got one." 
But Faust certainly can't be disappointed with the acquistion ofone defensive player in particular. AII·America linebacker Ned Bolcar, a 6-2, 21 0-pounder from Phillipsburg, N. )., decided late Tuesday to attend Notre Dame. Bolcar was the co-player ofthe year for Parade magazine. Most recruiting experts have said 
that getting Bolcar makes a recruiting year go from good to great. 
Faust must also be smiling upon hearing that D'Juan Francisco (brother of Irish defen­sive back Hiawatha) a 5-11, 180-pound Cin­cinnati native has opted for the Irish also. Francisco also was named to the Parade maga­zine list. 
Faust also commented on the lack of a recruit in the fullback position. "We wanted a fullback, but we only found a couple that really fit the mold of what we wanted. And then it was difficult to get them either academically or from other colleges." 
The coaches did end up with a California back who can also fill in at the defensive back position. Mark Green, out of Riverside Poly, gained over 1,300 yards during his career and impresses the coaches with his enthusiasm in helping out the squad in any way he can. 
However, half of the 24 Irish recruits were recruited as offensive players. Vying for the backup position to Steve Beuerlein will be an­other Steve, Steve Belles, a 6-3, 190-pounder from Phoenix, Ariz., and Pete Graham, a 6-2, 190-pound, Rumson, NJ. native. Some oftheir potential targets will be Steve Alantz (6-2, 
185) from Edinburg, Texas, and St. Louis product Ray Dumas ( 6-2, 175 ). Both are being looked to at the wide receiver slot. 
Upon losing tight ends Mark Bavaro and Ricky Gray to graduation, Faust has found two prospects for their shoes. Ted Fitzgerald (6-5, 232 ), hailing from Wayne, N.J., and Richard Morrison ( 6-4, 222 ), from Lynchburg, Va., will both be given opportunities to show their colors in the fall. 
Notre Dame has beefed up its line again for next season with a well-rounded crop of de­fensive and offensive linemen. On the offen­sive side, there are nearby Chicago natives Steve Bynum ( 6-4, 225) and Tom Gorman ( 6­5, 225 ); out of the South Notre Dame has received a 6-6, 240-pounder from Fairfax, Va., Andy Heck, and Bob Hodge, a 6-6, 270-pound Atlanta native. The Irish also heard from the heart of Texas where Dallas standout Steve Huffman has committed. Huffman (6-4, 220) is familar with the Notre Dame scene as his two brothers, Dave and Tim, played for the Irish in the late 70s. Hitting the Midwest, Faust nabbed Youngstown, Oh., recruit Joe Kelty (6-6, 270). And Faust rounded out his cross­country excursion by signing Philadelphia's talent in the form of 6-6, 255-pound Chuck Killian and 6-6, 270-pound Marty Lippincott. 
On the defensive side of the coin, the Faust staff has worked to fill in the lack of experi­ence in the defesive backfield. From the far west, The Irish will welcome Spokane, Wash., 
player, Aaron Robb (6-1, 190). From Chicago, 6-3, 195-pound George Streeter will try to find a position on the Irish roster. And a Rochester, N.Y., native with a unique title, Corny Southall (6-2, 180)will certainly con· tribute his best. 
Rounding out the list of Irish recruits are four players being tabbed as linebackers. They are Craig Hudson (6-1, 210), out of Cindn­nati; Mark Nigro (6-3, 220), from Villa Park, Ill.; Steve Roddy (brother of Irish player Marty) a 6-3. 215-pound Harlesyville, Pa., native; and finally, Kurt Zackrison ( 6-4. 21 5 ), hailing from Chicago. 
The official list ofplayers who have actually signed will not be published until the end of the week, due to the request of the Admis· sions Office. All the potential signees must go through the formalities first. But this list does appear to be accurate as to the roster of recruits. Certainly it appears that Coach Faust and his staff have once again compiled a top· notch list. But ofcourse, Faust will be the first to stress one very important point about recruits. 
"We really won't know just how well we did until they put on those gold helmets and the Irish uniform." 
aided by 18-for-55 field accuracy being team captain this year, an Notre Dame, and he plans to make from their starters. honor that is usually reserved for the most ofthe time he has left, as far 
Irish Barlow
Privateer coach Don Smith was seniors. as improving his game. If he con· not satisfied with his team's play, but "I thought it was a really big honor tinues to improve at his current 
continued/rom page 16
continuedfrom page 16 attributed most of that to the fine to be named captain, especially pace, he could become a significant after a drive and spin move in the play of the Irish. scorer is a demanding one, and that playing for a school like Notre pro prospect. lane. "We did a fair job in the first half, there are times when he will fall Dame," Barlow says. "We really 
Rivers finished with 13 points, but but in the second half, after five or short of Phelps' demands. weren't sure last year who the "Kenny Barlow, in my optmon, he only shot six-of-18 from the floor. six minutes we were out of it. We "Coach tells me that sometimes coaches were going to pick, but they will be a first-round draft pick in the However, he added four rebounds got behind and got out of every· I'm not involved as much as I should decided on Tim, Jim and me. I was NBA, if he continues to progress the and made an impressive block off thing," Smith said. "We shot 33 per­be as far as being an offensive threat really happy to be named, especially way he has," says Phelps. the backboard of a Privateer fast­cent, and you're not going to win and putting the ball up," says Bar­as a junior.· It's a big responsibility, "(Creighton coach) Willis Reed told break layup. many games that way. low. "He tells me that I need to take especially when you have a couple me that Kenny is ahead of Toby 
As the game neared completion, more shots and I need to create of seniors on the team, you really Knight at this stage.
"Notre Dame is very difficult to the crowd screamed for senior more scoring situations by taking don't know what to expect. "Kenny works really hard on and
play against because they have a Casey Newell. Newell entered the the ball to the basket. I think it's "Speaking at the pep rallies has off the court. The transition game
good inside game, plus they all shoot game with two minutes left, and the probably my own fault, just not been kind of a different experience we've been playing this year has 
so well. It makes it really tough to 
Irish did everything possible to give being a threat sometimes on offense so far," adds Barlow, who starred at opened up some shots for him, but
play against them," Smith continued. 
the fans their wish of a Newell bas­. I'll pass up a shot, and dish off to Indianapolis' Cathedral High School he still has to shoot it against the
"We've played about six teams that ket. somebody else, just trying to work along with current Irish teammate zones, and he still has to come offthe
might make it to the NCAA With the crowd screaming the ball around in the offense." Scott Hicks. "I haven't done that in a screens and shoot it against the man­
(including LSU, Alabama, Iona, and "Shoot" every time he touched the In addition to his prominent role while, since I was in high school. But to-man. He's had a pretty good year
Fresno State), and there's no doubt 
ball, Newell drove to the basket in the offense, Barlow, along with I guess I'm getting back into the so far. I just want to see him do more
in my mind that they'll go. They have 
several times. One Inside shot was classmates Kempton and Jim Dolan, swing oftalking at rallies." under pressure in key situations.
all the ingredients, and I feel they're
blocked, while his next attempt was has had the added responsibility of Barlow has another year left at He'll grow into that."
the best team we've played."
good, but to the fans dismay It was 
taken back after a charging call. The road to the NCAA is filled Newell drove toward the basket one with several strong teams, and in or­more time, and this time was fouled. der for the Irish to make it they'U He missed his first free throw, but have to shoot better from the floor. thrilled the crowd by sinking his However, the intense play ofseveral second. players and the incredible rebound­
John Harris led New Orleans with ing strength shown against New Or­12 points, and Hannes Haid added leans could make the road a little 
11. The  Privateers'  downfall  was  easier.  
New Orleanl (54)  Notre Dame (79)  
M FG·A  FT·A  R  F  p  M FG-A  FT-A  R  F  p  
Jones  40  4-14  0-0  5  3  8 Royal  25  4-8  2-3  10  1  10  
Harris  35  5-14  2·2  8  5  12 Barlow  16  5-10  2·2  6  4  12  
Haid  31  4-12  3·4  7  5  11  Dolan  27  2·6  4·7  10  2  8  
Adrianson  28  2-4  0·0  0  2  4 Rivers  35  6·18  1·2  4  0  13  
Johnson  28  3·11  2·2  5  3  8 Price  28  6-12  5-6  1  3  17  
Tuohy  7  1·3  0·0  0  2  2 Spencer  11  1·5  0-0  3  0  2  
Corchiani  12  1·2  3·3  1  0  5 Newell  3  0-2  1·2  1  1  1  
McCoy  15  0·1  2·2  0  2 Beeuwsaert  14  1·5  0·0  6  1  2  
Torczon  1  0-0  0·0  0  1  0 Peters  6  H  0·0  1  2  2  
CoHey  3  1·2  0·0  0  1  2 Kempton  22  3·4  H  6  4  7  
200 21-63 12-13  26  23  54 Voce  13  2-4  1·3  9  1  5  
FG  Pet.  .333  FT  Pet.  • .923.  Team  200 31-75 17-26  57  19  79  
rebounds  ·  5. Turnovers  ·  14. Assists  ·  8  FG  Pet.  .413.  FT  Pet.  ·  .654.  Team  

(Adnanson 3). Technicals ·None. rebounds · 5. Turnovers · 16. Assists • 12 (Rivers 4). Technicals ·None. 
Halftime -Notre Dame 40, New Orleans 28. Officials· Dave Dodge, Mike Moser, Jim Rife (all ACC). A· 10,630. 



JAMESON CANADIAN 
JRJSH CLUB 
WHISKEY 
7.50ML
7.50 Ml 
~ 799 
MARTINI &ROSSI ASTI SPUMANTE 
750Ml. 
Budweiser 1/2bbl Little Kings l/2bbl Hamms l/2bbl 
Budweiser Quarts 
A HAAGEN ~ OAZS 
~ 750ML 
1299 
VALENTINE 
GIFT SETS 
lllllllll IIULl 
SIDlES 
$32.99 30.99 27.99 
$10.29 

---~--~ ----~-~--~-----­
• 
~4(Jt~C3L~---------------------------------------Th-u_r_s_d_ar_,_F_eb_ruarr___ ___
__ t4_,_1_9_B_s p_a_g_e_t_s 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
5EEM5UKE 7H8 7TVIJNIN'i JU5T }5,5/!?.. ~ 
6a:SaJ~, THATiAKj(JliJ~fW5Itr IT? fKJbJ HA~BEEN LfJN(jHAVI3WJIJ8tEN CHPJtlY IUAITlN6 7060UP, TV flO IT. 
\ 
Tank McNamara Jeff Millar & Bill Hinds 
The Far Side Gary Larson 

WELl.., !TAU 511/~ll WHEN I WA5 WA/..K/116 hf»'E ffi!JM mr; fl€L/~5S€N..• 51/PP€Nt.Y, I SIIW A 6RIXJf' 
Of 7101 IN 1He fAf<K ·-­rr IIIA5 t.A~...I ... I ... 
Birds of prey know they're cool. 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS  35 A Ford  66 Lat. abbr.  
1 Rogue 6 Needle 10 Kon-­14 Miscue 15 "-Britannia" 16 PrtJviously  39 Not kosher 41 Revel 43 Part of HRH 44 Religiousimage 46 Passport  67 Shortly 68 Beam acronym 69 Liqueur glass 70 Billionth: pref. 71 Penetrate  10 Term of. endearment 11 Rhone feeder 12 McCarthy or Kline 13 That is 21 Spenser's  
owned  endorsement  DOWN  Ireland  
17 Lone ~anger's sidekick 18 Type type,: abbr. 19 Monsieur s  47 Be or under follower 49 Humperdinck heroine  1 Collections 2 Boast 3 Composer  25 Declare 26 Mix 27 AGuthrie  
dream  of15A  28 Easter flower  
20 Term of endc!!rment 22 Noted Speaker 23 Consequently 24 Flair 26 Strauss opera 30 Eydie's mate  51 Example of 36D 54 Taj Mahal site 56 "The Sun -Rises" 57 Term of endearment  4 Speck 5 Forthe present 6 Norwegian maestro 7 Frontier  29 The ­(term of endearment) 31 Black toucan 34 Dismounted 34 Dismounted 36 114 deck 37 Lat. verb  
32 Triplet  63-tennis  settlement  38 Faithful to  
33 Alliance  64 Sacrifice  8 Jai- Burns  
letters  65 Trumpet sound  9 Cross out  40 Kind of club  

The new S.A.B. Record Store 
ROCK DULAC RECORDS 
First Floor LaFortune 
42 Furious  55 "I don't­ 
45-degeste  respect"  
48 Dustbin  58 A Chaplin  
50 Common people  59 -Bator  
51 Orchid tuber  60 Cartoonist  
52 Disciple of  of old  
Socrates  61 Indian  
-53 Dam in Egypt  62 Berlin title  

Wednesday's Solution 
Campus 
•11 
:30 -1 :30 p.m. -Benefit Lunch, To fund the workofa South Bend native working in a school for the poor in lima, Peru, Center for Social Concerns. 

•12-4 
p.m.-Government Career Day-CAN· CELLED, Due to Weather. 

•2 
p.m. -Lecture, Joseph Schwantner, Composer, little Theatre, Sponsored by SMC Music Depart­ment. 

•4 
p.m. -Seminar, "Interfacial Electron-Trans Processes in Colloidal Semiconductor Systems," Dr. Prashant Kamat, ND, Conference Theatre, Radi­ation Laboratory. 

•4:20 
p.m. -Physics Colloquium, "n-i-p-i Doping Superlattices -New Materials, New Physics, and New Devices," Prof. Gottfried & H. Dobler, Hewlett-Packard & Max-Planck Institute, Room 118 Nieuwland. 

•6:30 
p.m. -Meeting, International Students Or­ganization, ISO Lounge, LaFortune. 

•7 
p.m. -Thursday Night Film Series, "Day of Wrath," O'Shaughnessy Hall Loft. 

•7, 
9:15 & 11:30p.m.-Film, "The Way We Were," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board. 

•7 
p.m. -Finance Club Meeting, Limited Space Available for Chicago Trip, Bring $36, Trip is Feb. 21 & 22. 

•7 
p.m. -Lecture, Finding the Malthusian Plot, Peter Bowen, Club of Life, Little Theatre , LaFortune, Free. 

•7:45 
p.m.-Meeting, Fellowship of Christian Ath­letes, Center for Social Concerns, All Are Welcome. 

•8 
-10 p.m. -Sophomore Study Break & Film, "Breathless," 2nd Floor, LaFortune, Sponsored by Sophomore Advisory Council, Free. 

•8:15 
p.m. -Meeting, "Fighting Euthanasia & Genocide," Little Theatre, LaFortune, Sponsored by Club ofLife. ' 


8:00p.m. 16 Bill Cosby Show :z:z Magnum, PI :Z8 Movie -Triathlon 34 34 Front 
8:30p.m. 16 Family Ties 
9:00p.m. 16 Cheers :z:z Simon & Simon 34 Mystery 
9:30p.m. 16 Night Court :z:z WKRP in Cincinnati 10:00p.m. 16 Hill Street Blues 
~ 
:z:z Knots Landing :Z8 20/20 34 Masterpiece Theatre 
TV Tonight 


© 1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
2/14/85
All Rights Reserved 
This Week at the Engineering Auditorium 
TONIGHT 
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY 7:00 

"!!!:\I C ~----rf 
9:15 ~--~ 
_L . .
Tapes Albums Tickets 
11:30 
-....­

== < 
1111
O~EN MON -FRI: 1:00-5:00 
$1.00 
..... 
7:00 9:15 11:30
!.~~~~~
239-5213 
$1.50 
S~orts 

Thursday, February 14, 1985 -page 16 
Irish dominate boards, cruise to 79-54 victory over Privateers in ACC 
ByNICK SCHRANTZ 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's basketball team furthered its claim as one ofthe leading rebounding teams in college basketball by outrebounding the Universiry of New Orleans Privateers, 62-3I, last night at the ACC. 
Although beset by poor shooting, the Irish's strength on the boards propelled them to an easy 79-54 vic­tory. 
The Irish shot only 4I percent from the floor and 65 percent at the free throw line. 
Despite the poor shooting, the Irish stlll outshot the Privateers. 
New Orleans could only connect on only one-third ofits attempts, hit­ting a mere 2I-of-63, for 33 percent. 
"I'm not satisfied with our outside shooting, or our shooting at all, when we're shooting 41 percent," said Irish head coach Digger Phelps. "I think defensively we're pretty solid, when we hold a team to 33 percent shooting. That really helps us. 
"Obviously we just dominated on the boards, and that's where we scored the points, on the missed shots." 
The Irish got off to a fast start on the strength of two Donald Royal rebound baskets, and led by an 8-I tally with only two minutes gone in the game. 
led 46-30 with 18 minutes still to 
play. 
With II minutes to play, Rivers 
sank a jumper from the top of the 
key to give the Irish a 58-38 lead. A 
minute later joe Price sank an IS­
footer to give the Irish a 60-40 lead, 
and the Privateers could never cut 
the gap to under 20 the rest of the 
way. 
Price missed the first three shots 
he took in the game, but he came 
back after the intermission with I 3 
second-half points to lead the team 
with 17 points overall. 
Price's outside shooting forced the Privateers to play him honest and not sag into the middle, which pleased Phelps. 
"He (Price) missed his first three shots and we took him out and got him back in, and he ends up with I 7 points," Phelps said. "I think it's be­cause we believe in him, and when he gets in a groove he just puts it in. He played a very, very good game, probably one of the best games he's played." 
With Barlow in foul trouble and the game turning into a runaway, Phelps was able to experiment and give some of his younger players some valuable playing time. 
Freshman center Gary Voce came off the bench to pull down nine rebounds and add five points, despite playing just I3 minutes. Voce played with such intensity that 
"I just felt that we played very, he ruled the boards in the second very hard from the beginning to the halfand kept the Privateers from get­
Needs to score in pressure spots 
end," Phelps said. "We jumped out, ting many second shots. 
8-1, and we didn't give New Orleans With nine minutes to play in the 
a chance to get into any type ofdelay second half, Voce provided the play 
or anything where they could try to of the game. He roared down the 
play ball control." lane to slam dunk a Rivers shot that 
The Privateers pulled to within a bounced high off the front of the By LARRY BURKE more aggressively. His emergence as that move has paid off · most of the basket halfway through the first half, rim. His play brought the half­Sports Writer a scorer came at the perfect time for time. Barlow's major problem in ad­but the Irish outscored New Or-capaciry ACC crowd to its feet. 
a Notre Dame team that found itself justing to the role of a scorer has leans, 23·13, the rest of the half to "I think Gary can help us down 
Consistency. It is something that in the NIT. In five tournament been in coming through with points take a 40-28 lead into the intermis-the stretch," said Phelps. "I just like every athlete strives for, but few games, Barlow averaged I3.6 points in pressure situations. sion. his size and what he can do, and I ever really attain. In a sport such as and 7.4 rebounds per contest, as the "Kenny's had some ups and Ken Barlow scored aU 12 of his think he can help us in situations." college basketball, it can make the Irish reached the championship downs," says Phelps. "I thought he points in the first half, while Royal Freshman guard-forward Matt diJfercncc between an All-American game before bowing out. The Notre played very well under pressure and David Rivers each added seven Beeuwsaert contributed only two and a flash in the pan. Dame forward was also named to the against Indiana when he hit three to aid in the scoring. points, but he added six rebounds in 
For Irish forward Ken Barlow, it is NIT All-Star team, which toured key shots. But he hasn't really done it At the half, the Irish held a 28-20 his I4 minutes of play. Despite his what he has worked throughout his Europe for four weeks last summer, since in pressure situations. But he advantage on the boards, on the 6-6 size, Beeuwsaert played point basketball career to achieve. And in playing games in Italy, France, and can do it. We've got to get him to do strength of seven Jim Dolan guard, a position he played in high this, his junior season, the 6-I 0 star Ireland. it because we can't put it all on the rebounds and six each by Royal and • school, to give Rivers a rest. He dis­is starting to sec the results of his ef­Barlow wound up his sophomore shoulders of (David) Rivers. Kenny Barlow. played his versatiliry by making forts -results that have shown up on season second to Sluby in scoring always gets his points, but we need Despite enjoying a comfortable several passes inside, aggressively the stat sheet. with a nine-point average, and led the pressure points from him." halftime lead, the Irish continued to rebounding, and making a bank shot 
For starters, Barlow has scm:ed in the Irish in field goal percentage .Barlow has found that the role ofa pour it on in the second half. They double figures in I9 of20 games this with a .548 mark. As a result of his see BARLOW, page 14 had a 6-2 streak to begin the half, and see IRISH, page·14 season, averaging a team-high I 5. 5 efforts, he was voted the team's most points per game. The tri-captain also improved player last year. · leads the squad in rebounding with "I think I was looking to score 
Barlow striving for consistency 
Notre Dame falters in second half, 
an average of7.I boards per contest. towards the end of last year a lot 
In eight games this year, he has more than I was earlier in the 
topped the team in scoring, the same season," says Barlow. "And I think 
has win streak ended by Alabama
number oftimes he has been the top people were giving me the shots a Irish rebounder in a game. Barlow's lot more, because they didn't expect By LARRY BURKE but missed three consecutive shots Carol Smith paced the Crimson Tide abiliry to score has helped the Irish me to take them. I hadn't really Sports Writer from underneath. with 21 points. fill the void left by the graduation of proved myself early in the season, After that missed opportuniry, The Irish shot 4 7 percent from the last year's leading scorer, Tom Sluby. and I was open a lot more just be­A late second-half cold spell Notre Dame was forced to foul, and field for the game, but hit just 40 per­
"I think I've had to pick up the cause people were keying on Tom proved fatal for the Notre Dame wo­Alabama hit four free throws in a· cent oftheir shots in the second half slack to a certain extent this year," and Tim (Kempton) down low last men's basketball team last night, as it row to seal the victory. Mary Betti when they let the game get away. says Barlow. "Because I'm a junior, year more than they were me. fell to Alabama in Tuscaloosa, 67-62. Schueth hit a basket at the buzzer to With the loss, Notre Dame falls to I've had to take on more responsibil­"I was happy to be selected most forge the final score. 12·8 overall, while Alabama raised
The Irish held a three-point lead,
iry, as far as scoring points, like Tom improved player, because when I its record to 17-9 with the victory.
56-53, with 7:06 remaining follow· The game was a seesaw battle
did. So I think my role has increased. first came here, in my freshman year, The win gives the Tide a 2-0
ing Trena Keys' fourth straight bas­throughout, with Notre Dame hold­
"I'm a leader on the floor this year, things started out very well for me, record in the young series between
ket, but couldn't come up with ing a slim 3 5-3 3 edge at the half. 
not In terms of running the offense, but then they sort ofwent downhill. the two schools. In 1983, Alabama
much the rest of the way as the
but as far as taking the shots and Then in my sophomore year, things The defeat broke a four-game win­scored a convincing 7I-56 victory in
Crimson Tide took control.
going for rebounds. Those are my started out slow and then picked ning streak for the Irish, and the ACC over a strong Irish team that main jobs right now · to get points back up when I started playing bet­Alabama, which plays in the dropped their road record to 6-6 on finished the season at 20-7. and to get rebounds and to help the ter towards the middle and end of strong Southeastern Conference, the year. Notre Dame finished the Notre Dame returns home to take team out that way." the season. So I was pretty happy took the lead for good when fresh­season with a 7-7 record in games on North Star Conference-rival 
Barlow has been enjoying particu­about last year, because I felt I had man Shelly Pyles drove the lane and outside the North Star Conference. Detroit Sunday at the ACC at 2 p.m. lar success in the scoring depart· progressed, and I was happy to get hit a jumper to make it 61-60 with Earlier this season, the Irish downed ment since the latter part of last that award." 2:IO left to play. Following another Keys led the Irish in scoring with the Lady Titans, 76-62, in its confer­season, when his outside shooting Coach Digger Phelps had the con­basket that gave the Tide a three­2I points, 12 of those in the second ence opener. Notre Dame is cur­started to show marked improve· fidence in Barlow to make him an in­point lead, the Irish stole the ball and half, while Schueth had I 7 points rently 5-I in NSC play, and 6-1 at ment and he began to hit the boards tegral part of this year's offense, and had a chance to cut the lead to one, and a team-high six rebounds. junior home. 

