
Movie reviews -page 7 

VOL XX, NO.4 lhc: intkpcndnH ~llltkrH Ill"\\ ~papt-r ~lT\ ing noln dame ami ~airH mary·, 

Renovations continue on science compound at SMC this winter 
By MARGIE KERSTEN complex will be completed by the Assistant Saint Mary's Editor fall of 1987. Anew computer work area featur­
June 8 marked the date that Saint ing terminals and micro-computers 
Mary's broke ground for the expan­will be added for the use ofstudents. 
sion and renovation of the College's The stock room will be expanded 
Sdence Hall, which houses the for chemicals, while a new storage 
chemistry, physics, and biology room has been added in the base­
departments. ment of the old building. To 
Dorothy Feigl, dean offaculty and facilitate this conversion, concrete 
acting vice president of the College was poured on the dirt floor over the 
said the new building will improve summer. 
the existing program in sciences. In addition to the storage space, 
"We will now have a facility that is the basement will also house live 
Play ofthe Day
designed to meet the needs of the warm and cold-blooded animals. 
Mike Napier, seemingly unaware ofa potential the quads instead ofclassrooms and study lounges
current research activities of the "I think a major improvement in faculty and students," Felgl said. the facility will be the animal room 
tackler behind him, catches a pass. Napier and yesterday as the summer weather continued. 
friends were typical ofmany students who took to
Tht· 6. '5 million dollar project, for the biology department," Feigl 
(lart of Saint Mary's S2'5 million said. 
fundraising campaign. EXCEL, is The basement ofthe new building 
dt"signt"d to provide more teaching, will be finished but will not be 

Riot police and protesters clash 
laboratory and research space. equipped, Feigl noted. "We hope in Feigl, a former chairman of the the future to have more classrooms chemistry and physics departments, and to have a real student lounge in 

in violent anti-apartheid marches 
said it was extremely important that that space," she said. 
scienct" students see their instruc­New offices, a greenhouse facility Allsoclated Press fought with protesters in Cape In Pretoria, the administrative tors as scientists. The newly added and an electron microscopy Town's mixed-race district of capital, the government announced research spact" will give students the laboratory for biology students will CAPE TOWN, South Africa · More Athlone. that it had banned the black chance to interact more with profes­also be features in the new building than 2,000 people of all races tried Police gave no details of the fatal Congress of South African Students, sors and will therefore be beneficial, and renovation. to march on Pollsmoor Prison in a shootings in Guguletu. The deaths which has chapters in most highshe said. Instrument rooms designed to ac­mass protest against apartheid yes­brought to at least 625 the number schools. 
"From the time I first came here comodate the electronic equipment terday, but police and soldiers broke ofpeople killed this year, all but ofa The student group is a leading or­there was a fundamental need for of the chemistry department will be up the procession and fought a few ofthem black. ganizer of class boycotts and black more science space," she said. added giving students "needed series of running battles with .township demonstrations againstWhen the new science building is space for the high level epuipment protesters throughout the city. It was from the AthJone stadium apartheid.
finished, it will be almost double in we have," Feigl said. Police said three blacks were shot that the Reverend Allan Boesak, a The ban means COSAS is not size, with the new building con­"The layout of the building as a to death in a riot in Cape Town's clergyman of mixed race and a allowed to operate and its leaders nected to the old structure. whole still tries to keep the clas­black township ofGuguleto. staunch foe of apartheid, had may not be quoted. Members told "The worst part of the construc­srooms, laboratories and offices in­Witnesses reported that hundreds planned to lead 20,000 people to 
The Associated Press their leaders tion happened over the summer," termixed so that there is a lot of of blacks swarmed into the Pollsmoor. He was arrested Tues­
were meeting secretly in black Feigl said, so students should not be interaction between students and township's streets after police day. 
townships to decide whether to defytoo inconvienced. faculty," Feigl said. blocked their attempts to par­Police using truncheons drove the banningorder, and would issue a The architectural firm of Sovik, Air conditioning will be installed ticipate in the march on Pollsmoor back about 300 protesters who got statement today.
Mathre, Sathrum, Quanbeck and throughout the entire building. "A Prison where black nationalist Nel­near the stadium yesterday morning. 
Schlink of Northfield, Minn., lot of concern and effort went into son Mandela is serving a life term. Police tired tear gas cannisters The Reagan administration con­
designed the new building and Cas­the air handling system," Feigl said, At least 27 people were arrested and· charged the crowd, sweeping demned the banning and the use of 
teel Construction Corp. of South noting that air quality is crucial in a and dozens more were injured, into the college auditorium to dis­repression. 
Bend has started construction. science building because of the del­choked by tear gas or beaten by lodge 600 demonstrators who had "Banning ... is one of the most 
Casteel Construction hopes to icate work taking place. police who met the marchers with taken refuge there. odious practices ofthe South African 
finish the outside of the new build· Feigl said the old building will truncheons and whips in the city's One protest ended peacefully. government," State Department 
ing before winter and then work on look very much the same on the streets. About 3,500 students, most of them spokesman Charles Redman said. 
in.~idc details during tht• winter inside, exceptfor the rearrangement Hundreds of riot police were sup­white, set out from the wealthy Police headquarters would not 
months. of labs and offices. The outside ported by soldiers. They sealed off white suburb of Rondebosch for the say how many people were arrested 
Next fall. all science classes will "facade of the building will be Guguletu, where the blacks were official residence of President P.W. and wounded in Cape Town. 
be held in the new building while modified to give a coherent look to shot to death, and the black Botha. They stopped near the Organizers of the march reported 
the old building is renovated. The the building," she said. township of Nyanga. They also campus on orders from police. at least 27 arrests. 


Fountain construction scheduled 
A model ofthefountain memorializingNotre Dame alumni who died in the sen,ice oftheir country to be placed on the Fieldhouse Mall. The fountain, desigr~ed by noted architect and Notre Dame alumnus john Burgee, is scheduled to be completed by May 18, 1986. See story at right. 
ByjANE KRAVCIK 
Assistant News Editor 
There will be more than sprinklers spewing water onto the Fieldhouse Mall when a new memorial fountain starts opera­tion there this May. 
The fountain will be a memorial to the Notre Dame alumni who died while serving in the armed forces since World War II. A Notre Dame graduate, John Burgee, designed the memorial. He also is responsible for South Bend's Century Center. 
The fountain will consist of a 
black granite pool with eight 
columns made of Indiana 
limestone, 20 feet high and 5 feet 
square, topped with four 
horizontal 10-foot limestone 
pieces. 
There will be a fountain within each pole and lintle structure and In the middle ofthe structure will be a 4-foot round, brown granite ball. 
The fountain will be located on a paved area of the mall, directly across from Haggar Hall. 
The total cost of the fountain was estimated between 5400,000 and S'500,000 by Marty Kleva, chief landscape architect of Cole Associates, a South Bend architectural firm working with Burgee on the project. 
Susan Madigan, assistant professor of art, art history and design, described the fountain as "really beautiful, terrific and very powerful." 
Madigan compared the structure to early Christian memorials for the dead. She said the granite ball in the middle of the structure likens the memorial to one in the courtyard of Old Saint Peter's Church in Rome. The ball symbolized the Resur­rection, Madigan explained. 
"It is related in some way to new trends in funerary memorials in its simplicity," she said. 
She predicted the fountain will be "one of the prettiest structures on campus." 
Adjunct Assistant Professor of Art, Art History and Design Brian Madigan compared the structure to funerary memorials used by 
the  Greeks  and  prehistoric  
Europeans.  
"Greeks  used  standing  

columns enclosinga square place see FOUNTAIN, page 5 

r The Observer Thursday, August 29, 1985-page 2 
f 
r 
I 
f I 

In Brief 

r 
Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger 
said Tuesday he was scuttling production of a n~ air-defense gun on which the Army has sunk S1.8 billion, because it doesn't work much better than the weapons the· service has now. Before Weinberger's decision, the Army had planned to spend another S3 billion on the weapon, a twin-cannon gun unit mounted atop a tank chassis and known formally as the DivisionAir Defense gun or Divad. "The independent operational tests demonstrated that the system's performance does not effectively meet the growing (Soviet) military threat," Weinberger said. "The tests demonstrated also that while there are marginal improvements that can be made to the Divad, these are not significant compared to the capability of current air defense weapons and therefore, not worth the additional cost," Weinberger said. "So we will not invest any more funds in this sys­
tem.'~p 

The United States experienced its first significant decline in poverty in nearly a decade last year, 'as the improving economy helped 1.8 million Americans climb above the poverty level, the government said Tuesday. "There was a very significant increase in income and decrease in poverty in 1984," said Gordon GreenJr., who is in charge ofsocioeconomic statistics for the Census Bureau. "Economic recovery and (the reduced level of)inflation are important factors in the continuing decline of poverty," he said. Green said the national poverty rate declined nearly one percentage point to 14.4 percent, or 33.7 million people living below the poverty line. The poverty rate in 1983 was 15.3 percent, or 35.5 million people. The poverty threshhold for an urban family of four was S10,609 last year, up from S10,1 78 a year earlier. The rate is slightly lower for rural familiesAP 
Of' Interest 

Hey transfers! Student government needs your names, addresses and numbers for transfer activities, especially Adopt-A­Transfer. Please stop by student government offices on the second tloor of LaFortune, or come to the student government booth at Activities Night, Sept. 3 at Stepan Center. -Tbe Observer 
Three $1,000 scholarships are being offered by the Scholarship Research Institute ofWashington D.C., an organiza­tion specializing in aiding students and their parents in efforts to locate funds for college. Applicants must be fulltime undergraduate students with a grade point of 2.0 or above. Interested students should send a self-addressed stamped envelope ·to: Scholarship Research Institute, P.O. Box 50157, Washington, D.C. 20004.-Tbe Observer 
Auditions for the Notre Dame Jazz Bands 
will be held on Sunday, Sept. 1 at 1 p.m. in the Jazz Loft of the Band Annex Building. There are openings for all jazz instruments and vocalists. Call Father WisUrchen at 239-7136 or 7656with any ques­tions. -Tbe Observer 

Weather 

Lie on your back and watch the clouds roll by. Partly cloudy and warm tomor­row with a 20 percent chance of thunder-· showers. High in the middle 80s. Mostly sunny and warm today with temperatures in the 80s. ­
AP 



Security guards and long lines: 
it's book-buying tinie again 
It's like taking a tour through a maximum-security prison. 
When you go to the Hammes Bookstore to buy your textbooks for the semester, prepare for a major expedi­tion. First, after trying the usual entrance door and fin­ding it locked and markedExit, you walk around to the 
side entrance. You deposit your bookbag among a massive heap and enter the door as a store employee watches to make sure you are not carrying anything big enough to hold a shoplifted pencil. 
Following the prescribed traffic pattern through the sportswear department, you come to a desk where after a long wait you may (or may not) get your check ap­proved. You approach the stairs to the books depart­ment, where a woman stops you to ask ifyour checkhas been approved. Upstairs, as you gather your books you stare at the price marked on the front page of each in shock and disbelief. 
Once the stack has reached your chin, you squeeze past masses of people into what looks like a line. lf you 
annual Student Activities get in the right line the first Board book sale ended last 
time (checks, cash or night. The Student Saver, charge) you may have to which last year sold generic wait only 20 minutes or so are coordinated enough to 
school supplies at relatively before your purchases are 
low prices, has been put on hold until its permanent
finally rung up. But wait! At the top of the home in LaFortune is ready. stairs a security guard must 
This may not be until next check your receipt against semester, according to SAB your purchases to make sure Business Manager Rob they match. Another Hoover. security guard watches your 
But there are options for descent from the bottom of 
those willing and able to the stairs, and a third sees 
make a little extra effort. you off at the outer Several used book stores in entrance. 
South Bend count Notre 


Finally, having made the full circle, you dig up your bookbag among dozens of others the same color and shape and hope your calculator and the S40 book you already bought are still there. You have just completed one of eight such expeditions every student at Notre Dame makes. 
Ifthis involved security system seems a bit excessive, 
-Bookstore Manager Brother Conan Moran insists it is necessary. "It's needed these days. I only wish we didn't have to have security," he said. And the visible precau­tions aren't all. The bookstore employs plainclothes security personnel "who look like students," Moran said, and is equipped with an alarm system at night. 
Moran, who has managed the bookstore for more than 40 years, maintained that the high incidence of shoplifting in past years has declined since security was beefed up, adding that there were very few cases last year and none so far this year. 
"The system is working well," he said. "The security guards are more tuned in this year." 

Mary Healy 
Accent Editor 

When a student is caught shoplifting, security inves­tigates the case, and the student is turned over to John Goldrick, associate vice president for residence llfe. 
According to Moran, the intensive security is also one explanation for the other major student gripe concern­ing Hammes: prices. The margin of profit on textbooks is already so low that few companies like to carry them, he said, and the high cost of security makes them even less profitable, necessitating high prices. 
For those who are fed up with long lines and big bills 
at the Bookstore, there are 
few places to turn. The semi­
Dame students among their 
primary customers for both 
buying and selling books, and carry many of the major 
textbooks. Pandora's Books, at 937 South Bend Ave., is 
one favorite. Others are Erasmus Books on 1027 E. Main 
and Griffon Bookstore at 121 W. Colfax. 
Several dorms are still conducting their own 
booksales. And ofcourse individual signs for used books 
are plastered all over campus. 
But none of these will work in those all-too-common 
situations when your professor announces that this 
semester he is using the 7th Edition ofUnderstanding 
Calculus instead oflast year's 6th Edition. 
The Observer encourages the free expression of oplnioru; through lcucrs 
to the editor. Letters should be brld(approximatcly 2SO words) and t~d 
whenever possible. AU lcuers should be signed (although the author's name 
need not be published), and should Include a phone number at which the 
author may be reached. Lcucrs arc published on a space-available basis. Let· 
ters are cdilcd to correct errors in grammar and for space considerations. 
Like to talk on the phone? We11 pay you to do it. 
Call Amy Stephan at The Observer and learn how you can become a Day Editor 239-5303 
TheNROTC CollegeProgram~ $2,000Expense-MoneyAnd ANavy OfficerCommission. 
The two-year NROTC College Program offers you two years of expense money that's worth up to S2,000 plus the challenge of becoming a Navy officer with early responsibilities and decision-making authority. 
During your last two years in college the Navy pays for unifonns, NROTC textbooks, and an allowance of SlOO a month for up to 20 months. Upon graduation and completion of requirements, you become a Navy officer, with important decision-making responsibilities. 
Call your Navy representative for more information on this challenging program. 
Stop by the ROTC building on the Notre Dame campus, or dial 239-7274/6442 ~nd ask for LT Wachtl. 

Navy Officers Get Responsibility Fast. 
• 



lb<: Obe<:rv<:r (USPS ~99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. lb<: Obe<:rv<:ris published by !he s!uden!S of !he Universiry of Notre Dame and Saini Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for 130 per year ( I 20 per sc· mes!Cr) by wri!ing lb<: Obe<:rv<:r, P.O. 
Box Q, Noire Dame. Indiana 46556. 
1b<: Obe<:rv<:r is a member of lb<: AMocialrd Pr<:M. All rcproduc!ion righ!S arc reserved. 
Today's issue was produced by: 

Design Editor............. , ... Mark Mclaughlin Typesetters ................... Ca!hyann Reynolds Chuck Papandrea News Editor........................... Mary Heilman Copy Editor............................... Mariam Hill Sports Copy Editor.....................Jeff Blumb Vkwpoint Copy Editor .. Mary Ellen Har· rington VkwtJOint Layout ................Carol Brown Elizabeth Vogel 
Features Copy Editor.............................Tim Features Layout....................John Mennell Photographer..................Johannes Hacker 
The Observer Thursday, August 29, 1985-page 3 

An~el ofMercy 
The Princess of Wales, with a suroivor of the Manchester Boeing 737 disaster, Anna Findley, during a visit yesterday to Wythensbaws hospital, Manchester, with ber husband the Prince ofWales. 

Jet engine safety checks ordered 
LONDON· The Civil Aviation Aut­hority on Tuesday ordered urgent cht·cks of jet engines similar to one that apparently caused last week's Manchester Airport crash in which 'i4 people died. 
It said the order was issued fol­lowing the discovery of "extensive cracking" in the combustion cham· hers ofsix Boeing 737 engines. 
The order resulted in the ground­ing of several British commercial aircraft, but it could not be im­mediately determined how many. 
It said a preliminary investigation of last Thursday's crash of a British Airtours Boeing 737 at Manchester while taking off"indicates that com­bustion chamber deterioration could have caused overheating of the combustion chamber outer casing leading to its failure." 
The authority said some planes that had flown more than I2,000 hours on modified Pratt and Whit­ney engines would have to be grounded until their engines could be stripped down or X-rayed. 
It gave no estimate on the poten­tial for disruption in air travel. 
NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S THEATRE 
SUBSCRIBE NOW-See W.ESrSIDES10Br Free! 
\ ~ \ 
--EndolllJe World by Arthur Kopit October 10, 11, 12, 17, 18, 19. · Washington Hall-University of Notre Dame 
Hay Fever by Noel Coward December 5, 6, 7, 12, 13, 14. O'Laughlin Auditorium-Saint Mary's College Tlae Tempest by William Shakespeare 
February '1.7, 28, March l, 6, 7, 8. Washington Hall-University of Notre Dame
\( 
W•t Side Story by Leonard Bernstein and Arthur Laurents May l, 2. 3, 15, 16, 17. O'Laughlin Auditorium-Saint Mary's College 

Each Subscriber receives 25% oH regular •Iagle llckel price. -lhe equivalent of ...lag West Sltle Story freel 


At full price  Su~Ncrlben Save 25%  \  Sludeala Save up to 50%  
Washington Hall-Main floor and O'Laugblin Auditorium Rows A-N  4@$6-$24  $18  $12  
Waahington Hall-Balcony and O'Laugblin Auditorium Rowa 0-W  4 @ $5-$20  $15  $12  


Soviet official attends Samantha's funeral 
A811ociated Press 
AUGUSTA, Maine -A Soviet diplomat and actor Robert Wagner were among I,OOO people to pay final respects yesterday to Samantha Smith, the young peace advocate whose smile "melted the barriers between nations and warmed the hearts ofthe coldest diplomats." 
Reading a statement by Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev, Vladimir Kulagin, first secretary for cultural allairs at the Soviet Embassy in Was­hington, recalled Samantha's two­week tour ofthe Soviet Union in july 1983, describing her as a "brilliant beam ofsunshine." 
Kennebec County is one of I 0 in the s~te where Soviet travel is restricted, but State Department of· ficials gave Kulagin quick clearance to travel to the memorial service for Samantha and her father, Arthur, who were among eight people killed in a plane crash Sunday. 
Kulagin said he hoped the I3­year-old girl, who took the trip to his country with her parents at the ex­pense of the Soviet government, would prove to be "a symbol of the future in Soviet-American relations." 
He said he hoped the super­powers would continue the dialogue she started and "reach over our borders with good will, friendship and love." 
Samantha was invited on the trip by the late Yuri Andropov, then the Soviet leader, to whom she had writ­ten about her fears ofwar. 
Wagner, who was illming a televi­sion series with Samantha, accompanied her mother, Jane, and other relatives to the front pew at Saint Mary's Roman Catholic Church yesterday. 
At the altar, a large wreath of red and white carnations adorned with a pair of white doves read, "Embassy ofthe U.S.S.R. Washington, D.C." Ot­her floral arrangments were sent by Wagner, who was illming the new ABC series "Ume Street" with Samantha and actress jill St.john. 
Among those also present were I 5 students from a Massachusetts school· for the severely handicapped and terminally ill. They delivered a light-blue United Nations flag that was draped behind red geraniums at the front ofthe church. 

The 70-minute ecumenical service for Samantha and her father also featured prayers, readings, hymns and testimonials from friends and Gov. joseph Brennan. 
William Preble, a faculty adviser at the Maranacook Community School in Readfield, next to the Smiths' hometown of Manchester, said he and a group of Samantha's clas­smates, in "trying to make some sense of this great loss," had con­cluded that she had accomplished many things others only dream of. 
Samantha and her father, who had quit his job teaching English at the University of Maine at Augusta to oversee her budding acting career, were killed with six other people when their Bar Harbor Airlines plane crashed and exploded while trying to land in Auburn. The Smiths' bodies are being cremated. 
Loudspeakers outside the church piped the service to the more than I00 people unable to fit inside the church. 
In Moscow, meanwhile, Kremlin leader Mikhail Gorbachev sent a telegram ofcondolence to Samantha Smith's mother Tuesday and the news media paid warm tribute to the American schoolgirl who toured the Soviet Union as a guest of its presi­dent. 
Komsomolskaya Pravda, the youth league newspaper, called Samantha, 13, "a small person with a bold heart." It devoted more space to the story than it usually does to the death ofa high-ranking Soviet of­ficial. 
The national evening television news, which reported Samantha's death on Monday with a rum clip of her trip, showed more films Tuesday and ended with a still photograph of the smiling schoolgirl. 
"Samantha Smith will not be com­ing to us again," a commentator said. ;'The young envoy of peace, they called her in the United States. And in the Soviet Union, she left behind thousands and thousands of friends. They will always remember Samantha Smith, and her smile." 
r---~:r::-----------------~ 
I ~--I
iADEUfPIZditiA 233-3964 I 
Spedal Every Thursday: 1
1 
Buy one sandwich. get 2nd sandwich III of equal or lesser value for 1 I 2 price! 1 
1 "We're Talkin' Quality" I 
1511 Portage Ave IL One bloclc north of Martin"• 



----------------------~--~ 



USA TODAY 
$28.00 

all semester DORM DELIVERY 

call Tim at 283-2163 
Serl• Dal• (be sure to indicate which aeries you wish) 
Series A Th\Ullday EftDings-8:10 P.M.: Od.10, Dec. 5. Feb. 'l/, May 1. 
Series B Friday EveDings-8:10 P.M.: Od.ll, Dec. 6, Feb. 28. Ma)\'2. 
Series C Saturday Eveninga-8:10 P.M.: Od.12. Dec. 7. Mm.l. Ma\r 3. 
S.riu D Th\Ullday EveDings-8:10 P.M.: Od.17. Dec.12. Mar. 6, May 15. 
Series E Friday Eveninga-8:10 P.M.: Od.18. Dec.13, March 7, May 16. 
S.riH F Saturday Eveninga-8:10 P.M.: Od.19, Dec. 14. Mm. 8. May 17. 
Serl• Prlce.-For All Serl• (See all four shows for~me low price) 
For ticket bdormalloa call (219) 239-5957 Make checb payable to: UliiVtBSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

r---------------------------------------,
Subscription Order Blank 
.,.,____ 

---------------------­
PllaM( )---­
~------------------­
..._____ lip_____ 
~-------------­
....... LD.......___________ illlllc:.MoiiVLI------­
..... .,..... 11 •• .... Floor w.:o.y·____ 
....... ol SUicripllou Jlall cw... PleaM add $1.00 lor postage cmd lwmdting :r:=/=-rs'lllealre Total ClaiOaDI ol cbeck U ollloiN 0... 01' 1111a.eJ ont. NoiN Dame, Indiana 41551 
L---------~-----------------------------~ 
The Observer 


Kohl ·dismisses intelligence chief in latest West German spy scandal 
Aaeodated Press 
BONN, West Germany-Chancel­lor Helmut Kohl dismissed his intel­ligence chief in the spreading scandal over the defection of a top counterspy to East Germany last week. 
Four alleged East German spies were arrested in Britain and Switzer­land. At least two were reported to be connected with the Bonn espionage scandal that has shaken Kohl's government. 
Federal Intelligence Service Chief Heribert Hellenbroich ack­nowledged in an interview yester­day with West German television that he had been dismissed. Official announcement was not expected until today. 
"The decision has been taken. As a civil servant, I have to accept it," Hellenbroich, 48, said in the inter­view. 
Government sources said Chan­cellor Helmut Kohl decided to fire 

r Hellenbroich because he had 
r protected Hans-Joachim Tiedge, 
r who ran the counter-espionage sec­
r tion dealing with East German spies. 
r r 
r 
r 

French pledge to investigate attack 
r 
f 
PARIS -Prime Minister Laurent Fabius ordered an investigation of the French secret service Tuesday, but said he had no reason to con~ tradict an official report that cleared the agency in the bombing of a Greenpeace protest ship. 
Fabius also issued an "absolute" condemnation of the attack on the Rainbow Warrior, which was sunk by explosives in Auckland, New Zealand, while preparing to sail for the French nuclear test site at Mururoa Atoll. He said the guilty parties, "whoever they may be," 
, 
r 
CIA actions in Nicaragua investigated 
WASHINGTON Three 

Nicaraguan Indian rebel leaders said 
Tuesday that CIA officers have 
brokered two agreements this year 
on how rival U.S.-backed insurgent 
groups should divide privately 
raised mllitary supplies. 
The leaders, active in Misura, the 

main coalition of Indians fighting 
Nicaragua's leftist government, said 
the agreements, brokered in Hon­
duras, were struck with the larger 
Nicaraguan Democratic Force, or 
FDN, in February, and again in June. 
The CIA's reported role in the 

ment, last October. 
Two congressional panels next month plan to examine whether the Reagan administration complied with the ban, particularly following reports that the White House's Na­tional Security Council helped the rebels raise money and offered mllitary advice. 
Rep. George Brown Jr., D-Calif., a member of the House Intelligence Committee, said the panel was aware of "continuing contacts" bet­ween the CIA and the rebels, but lacked any specific knowledge about the contents of those discus­sions. 
Tiedge defected to the communist East last Friday, and at least three ot­her suspects have fied. 
Several ofTiedge's colleagues had recommended he be dismissed on grounds that his heavy drinking and mounting debts made him a security risk, said the sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity. They said Hellenbroich rejected the recom­mendations. 
Hellenbroich insisted yesterday that he had legitimate reasons for the way he handled the Tiedge case. 
"Unfortunately I cannot disclose the reasons that determined my ac­tions," he said. "This, for me, is a very bitter, painful experience." 
Hellenbroich is the first official to lose his job in the scandal, which is the latest of many espionage cases since Germany was divided on ideological lines at the end ofWorld War II. 
He has been in charge of the agency for less than a month and for­merly ran the counter-espionage service, where Tiedge was the East German section chief. 
The defection raised concern that Western agents operating in East Germany might be exposed and that NATO intelligence operations might have been compromised. 

Both Britain and Switzerland an­nounced yesterday that they had ar­rested alleged East German spies. West German sources said they were convinced that at least the pair arrested in Switzerland were tied to the Bonn spy case. 
The Swiss state prosecutor's office in Bern said it arrested a German couple who lived in Lucerne on suspicion of having been long-term undercover agents for East Ger­many. 
A Bonn security official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the two suspects were linked to a secretary in the office of Richard von Weizsaecker, president of West Gerinany. The secretary was ar­rested on spy charges. 
In London, Scotland Yard said an East German couple were charged with espionage. 
The Bonn spy scandal has badly strained Kohl's coalition govern­ment. Officials said they are trying to prevent long-term damage to rela­tions with East Germany. 
Thursday, August 29, 1985-page 4 


Cash 
•

tn••• 
Tbe Observer needs creative, dedicated people to design ads, so ifyou're interested, call Mary Carol Creation at 283-3461. 
...on your artistic talent 
seats are available to students through the Lafortune Center (SAB) Ticket Office. The sale opens on Wednesday, Aug. 28 at 
9:00 a.m. STUDENT ID MUST BE PRESENTED. LIMIT lWO 
(t) TICKETS/STUDENTS. 
Additional ACC 

.,de****************::
iC * 

: Burns Rental ~ 
i iC ~  2 Cubic Foot  ~ ~*  
~  Refrigerator  ~  
~  $45 I School Year  ~  

iDelivery and Pickup Available ~ iC * 
iC * 
iC * 
~ 323 W. Mishawaka Ave ~ ·-tc * 
~ 259-2833 ~ iC * 
~...............~ 
must answer for the crime. One crewman was killed by the blast. 
Prime Minister David Lange of New Zealand, who earlier had called the French report "transparent" and demanded an apology, appeared somewhat mollified by Fabius' com­ments. 
"Whatwe have here is not an apol­ogy in any specific sense but a very 

handsome statement" he said yester­day in Wellington. 
New Zealand has arrested and charged two French intelligence agents with murder, arson and con­spiracy, and issued warrants for three other French agents who turned themselves in to French police Monday and were released pending investigation. 


Saint Mary's students! 
Need to publicize an event? Need to place a classified ad? Have a compliment or gripe? 

309 
Haggar Center 

UDITIONSAUDITIONSAUDITIONS 
The University of Notre 08me Department of Communication and Theatre announces 
Auditions 
Thursday, August 29 at 7:30pm. Friday, August 30 at 7:30 pm 
at the Washington Hall Main Theatre 
auditions are open to all Notre Dame and 5alnt Mary's students no experience Is necessary no prepared monologue Is required 
call-badcs will be Slllday, September I, at 1:00pm. ror Information call 239-5134 

AUDITIONSAUDITIONSAUDITIONS 


WANTED BY 
Sacred Heart Parish Men and Women to assist in 
YOUTH MINISTRY 
(i.e. to work with the Parish's professional Youth Minister to develop a program which Includes opportunities for fun, friendship, and splrltuai growth. Previous experience is not necessary. We will work as a team meeting at convenient times to plan and discuss any problems.) 
Interested persons should call 
Tim Daugherty:deals came after Congress banned for the Notre Darne/Satnt Mary's Theatre production or  
the agency .from "supporting, directly or indirectly, military or Parish paramilitary operations in End of tbe World HqmeNicaragua." Congress passed the by Arthur [oplt  239• 7511 256-7511  Oeove message and he'll get bock to you)  
ban, known as the Boland amend­ Also needed  

ONE OR TWO HIGH SCHOOL ASSISTANT LEADERS and 
Last but not least, musicians!!! 
To sing at 9:30 Mass (SATB choir and formal music) Or 1 0:45, Instrumentalists as well as singers, mostly contemporary music. 
Call Parish office, 239· 7511, for junior high and music. 
~-------------------------------------------------------------­
.------------------------------~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--------~ 
The Observer Thursday, August 29, 1985 -page 5 

PHOTOGRAPHERS 

The Observer Photo Staff Needs YOU *Many paid positions available *B&W darkroom exp. crucial *Own equipment necessary 
Pick up an application and .iob description at the Observer office, 3rd floor LaFortune 
Beth McManus enjoy a welcome-back picnic Augusta Hall residents Carolyn Reppa andMary sponsored by their ball yesterday. • 
Because women can be assigned For the first time, all female 
WASHINGTON -The Marines, to support units that might unex­Marine recruits must qualify in using who have advertised themselves as pectedly come under fire, and since the M-16 rifle as well a.'i learn fight­"A Few Good Men," have decided there is always a danger of terrorist ing positions, "cover, concealment their few good women should be activities, "they must be trained in and camouflage" and how to handle able to fight, too. defensive techniques and opera­hand grenades, mines and booby 
The no-combat-duty rule for tions in the event of unforeseen traps. Nuclear, biological and chemi­America's women in uniform hostile activity," said Marine Corps cal defenses also will be covered, remains in place. But, in a change in Commandant Paul Kelley in an or­along with using deadly force as part training policy, female Marine der outlining the new policy. of guard duties. recruits this fall will be subjected to "Women Marines shall not be as­much the same marksmanship and He stressed the changes do not signed to any unit that would likely 
combat instruction that their male relax the ban on women serving in become engaged in direct combat," combat units. Kelley said. 
The cost of the structure is "not The final two phases will be com­terribly surprising considering the pleted by May 18, 1986. Contractors enormous scale," said Brian have not yet been chosen for these Madigan. phases, although bids on the second 
The first phase of the project, phase should be taken "within a which includes pouring concrete week or two," said Dedrick. and doing the underground work for According to Dedrick and Kleva, the plumbing needed for the foun­Father Theodore Hesburgh, Univer­tain, should be completed by Oc­sity president, had the original idea tober, according to Donald Dedrick, for the memorial. "It was a long-time director of Notre Dame's physical dream of Father Hesburgh," said plant. Kleva. 
This phase will cost ap­Hesburgh discussed the idea with proximately Sl 75,000, said Kleva. ·Burgee who fostered the conceptual 
The construction for this first idea for the fountain. Cole As­phase will be done by Harry H. sociates worked on the mechanics Verlder, Contractor Inc. of the project, said Kleva. 







Pratesslenai-Level 


SMiCnic 
colleagues receive. 


OUR SCHOLARSHIP 
HELPS YOU BEGIN YOUR CAREER 

AS ALEADING ENGINEER. 
An l'ngine""rin~ dt'WC'<-' will rake yuu far in ttxiay's you"II learn leadership and managemem skills thai can"t 
h1~h·1cch Army And wuhan Army ROTC scholarship. help't1ut enhance your opportunuies in the future. t•arnmt.; that Jegrec can he hoth les.o; expt<nsive and more And you"ll put your skills lo work righ1 away. valunhlt• bcc.1use you're commissioned in the Army as a second 
Tht• scholar..htp nm only pays your entire tuition. licurcnanr when you graduate rt'J!arJk'!t."('f the am<lllnt. but al&l n•quircd fees. an amount Ifyou"d like an cdutanon in leadership and manage· for ht"h and •uprlit•>. and up ro $1.000 each schml year ment to go alon10: with your engineering degree, find 
for l1v1n~ t•xpensr!\ out more about Anny ROTC. Contact your Professor of 
h'\an cxcdlent scholarship. And u R:Cis you a lot M1l11ary Science. m<lrt• th;m an enj!int•c•rinJ,:! dq,rrt•c. Al(mR with your regular count•!~, you'll takt· Army ROTC clas."it's and learn ahnut 
ARMY ROTC. 
monvatm" peoplt•, analyzinl! situations, makmg confident. m(,)rmt•d decisions, and rcachm~ defined goals In shon, 
BEALLYOU CAM BE. 







~i~~~_<>__i_Il___t________________
Th_ur-sd-ay,-Au-gu-st-29-,l-98_5__pa-ge-6 
Hesburgh welcomes and encourages ND students 
Welcome back. Hope you all had a great summer and are "raring to go" for a new and exciting year. 
I had a good summer. Did some fishing in upper Wisconsin and Michigan. Caught my largest walleye and muskellunge in forty years. Also covered my share of international meetings in July: one in Geneva, Switzerland, on world hunger, with emphasis on long range solutions in Africa; another in Vienna on the nuclear threat to humanity. The theme for this one was "Can we prevent World War III?" We decided we could ifwe worked harder in finding creative ways of doing it. All the Iron Curtain country representatives were there, too. 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh guest column 
Between the meetings, my Executive Assis­tant, Father Bill Beauchamp, and I went down the Danube on a Bulgarian shipfrom Vienna to Sofia, Bulgaria, visitng Budapest, Hungary and Belgrade, Yogoslavia, en route. What are those cities like? Like all other Socialist cities I have visited, grey like Moscow and Prague. I kept remembering, how lucky I am to have been born here, rather than there. But they have 
their hopes too, and we share the hope for 
peace in our times. 

Later in August, there was a General Con­
ference ofthe International Federation ofCat­
holic Universities in Santo Domingo. The 
Notre Dame contingent included Provost Tim 
OMeara and Dean Mike Loux with wives, and 
Student Body President Bill Healy and I wit­
hout. Bill did well with his Spanish acquired 
this summer. 

So much for dreamy summer· days and some twenty books read and three papers written, easier to read than write. Now we start again. For me, it's my 34th year in this office with just two left to go, thank God. The years do not get · easier, but they are all exciting to anticipate. Each year has its own surprises, its own suc­cesses and failures, its own new challenges. I guess we would all be bored to death if it were not so. 
I still get a feeling of great anticipation during these opening days when everyone is greeting everyone else, checking on the sum­mer, laying plans for the weeks ahead, helping questioning freshmen and women, sizing up the new courses, wondering about the team and the opening game, buying books (ouch), acquiring new and used furniture, trying to get everything into the room, including your­
selfand roommates with all that stuff. I really should say a special word of welcome to all our new first year students. Believe it or not, I can still remember arriving here as a freshman 51 years ago, with a big trunk, a gladstone bag, and a lot of hopes for four great years here. I was soon a bit homesick like everyone else, but the days passed quickly, I began to think great thoughts, made three times as many friends as all those back home, survived losing our first Notre Dame game to the University ofTexas, started to grow up and began tQ look on this place as home, too. My best welcome is to assure you that you have come to one of the greatest places on earth, that you can make even greater. You are joining one of the greatest student bodies of any university on earth, a group of wonderful men and women, full of many talents, much good will, all potential friends and helpers. You may even find your life partner here, many do, but there are years ahead to think of that. I guarantee you that with a little effort and give on your part, you will make a growing group of lifelong friends. You will also, with effort and grace, grow here, maybe more than you imagine, not just in body, but in spirit, character, moral conviction and hopefully in wisdom, too. 
One thing is certain: you will be a lot better four years from now or a lot worse. One can't have this big a grace and blow it without losing all around. My prayer for each ofyou is that you grow in wisdom, age and grace, and that after graduation, your parents will write whomever is president then, as so many have done each year after graduation, saying: "We sent you a young boy or a girl, you sent back a man, or a woman, with high ideals, deep con­viction, clear goals, great competence to begin life on his, or her, own. Share our pride and thanks." 
For those who are coming back for their second, third, or fourth year -or transferring in -may I only say in welcome, keep up the good work. The years pass all too quickly so make the most of them. A new year is also a great grace, a chance to begin again, to do bet­ter, to grow more, to learn, to be a better per­son, to pray, to be at peace, despite all the hustle and bustle and excitement. 
Final thanks to Joe Murphy, Viewpoint Editor of The Observer, (I am half Murphy, too, Joe) for asking me to do this article and for giving me a chance to reminisce and to thank God for this place and all of you who give it so much life and love and substance and spirit. 

Dreams of fortune make statement about culture 
As the New York State Lottery soared astronomically beyond $40 million, the dreams ofmillions soared with it. 
They stood for hours in line to pick the numbers that would overnight transform their lives. Clerks, secretaries, students, white-collar workers, hardhats, housewives with baby carriages, little old ladies -they were out in force. Some were yielding to peer pressures, doing what has suddenly become the "in thing," but mostly taking a modest fling at a turn in their fortunes and a new life_ 
Max Lerner the Max Lerner column 
For the state it is a revenue sharing standbye, for sociologists and psychologists the occasion for cluck-clucking in sorrow over what our society has come to, and over the "false destructive god" that the poor have taken to worship. But for the people as a whole it is more than a moralist's trap. It is a collective experience of a surging -if some­what hopeless -hope. We condescend if we speak of it as a phenomenon of the poor. The people standing in line are almost a cross sec­tion ofevery social class. There is no opium of the masses alone but of the classes as well. 
Ooonesbury 
If I were teaching high school or college sociology today I would assign my students to interview the people standing in the lines for Lotto numbers. The newspaper interviews with them, about what they will do with the money they win, furnish rich evidence of the shortfalls iii people's lives which make them long for a windfall. 
Most of them dream of travel, of cruising the world, of going to places with magic names. Many have a heavy sense oftheirdebts, and want to be free of them. Some want to help their parents and share with their children. Some would quit their jobs forever, which is a commentary on the work ethic today. The more bitter dream of triumphing over a hard and hostile world and thumbing their nose at everyone: "living well is the best revenge." 
But most want more ofeverything -service, partying, dining out, vacations. This is what they see on their TV screens, in "The Rich and the Famous," and the success stories of film and rock stars and the sudden new crop of fortunes made by venture capital. Even the high-culture PBS screen has entranced its viewets with sucessful reruns of "Brideshead Revisited," where you live in an ancestral English palace and are waited on at black-tie dinners and never lift a plate yourselfand you carry on your romantic courtship crossing the Atlantic first -class. 
7Hf?lC£i..ENIJ;TE, CONTlNf/nYU/Hil&

84(!0~~ Mlt:e, 7HC Ff?AGMfJJ7EI) 
aPLOOI'i3 THe STeRJWYOF P05T­

SIJ~ SPCAI< 70TH£ VIJL6ARJ7Y 
GIWFffl ~OUPI7M. ACOMMfNT ON

OF R£aNTl!t1h.XAPPfi{)PRJA770N. 
I 
A COMMFNT, IF . I 

"If there were dreams to sell/and the crier The best dreams are those that trigger our rang the bell,/what would you buy?" Thus a energies when they flag. But short of that, the Victorian poem, "Dream Peddlary." For the ·idle dreams of what we would do with an millions who miss the lottery prizes it won't overnight treasure trove of $20 or 40 million be a total loss. They will have mined their tell us something about the culture -and dreams and made an inventory of their wants about ourselves. and desires and fantasies, if not of their aut­hentic needs. (c) 1985, Los Angeles Times Syndicate 
BE WRITE WHERE IT COUNTS! 
JoinViewpoint today 
Become part ofa winning team ofwriters whose work is read by all ofNotre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Call joe Murphy at 239-7471. ND/SMC students and faculty are encouraged to apply. 
No experience necessary. Garry Trudeau 
7He VICM/f3RJAION'T l<iJOt.I/7HAT. TO HIM, !7'5 7H8 'iHARP9 OF TH&AMERJCAN a?EAM. 

Quote of the day 
"The intention makes the crime." 
Aristotle (384-322 B.C.) 
Rhetoric 

Editorial Board  Operations Board  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  (219) 239-5303  Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton  Business Manager .... ................. David Stephenitch  
Managing Editor......... . ..................... Amy Stephan  Controller................  . ........ William J. Highducheck  
The Observer is the mdependent newpaper published by the students of  the  News Editor...  . ......... Keith Harrison Jr  Advertising Manager.  .. ............. Jim Hagan  
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. II does not necessarily  News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough  Systems Manager..  ... Mark B. Johnson  
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as  Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino  Production Manager..  .. .... John A. Mennell  
accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion  Sports Editor .... ......................................Jeff Blumb  
of a majority of the Editonal Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column  Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy  
present the v1ews of the1r authors. Column space 1s available to all members of tile  Viewpoint Editor...... . ........................... Joe Murphy 
commun,ty. and the free express1on of varymg op1n1ons on campus. through letters.  Photography Editor ................ ........ Peter C. Laches  
IS E:HCOuraged  Copy Chief .............................................. Frank Lipo  Founded November 3, 1966  





Monster and midget outshine ''The Bride'' 




·Accent ­
Thursday, August 29, 1985-page 7 

tions for the future, and no future for Frankenstein. 
There may or may not be a future for all of the actors, hut Sting would best be advised to stick to singing "Roxanne" for the rest ofhis career. His portrayal ofCharles Frankenstein is colorless and shal­low. Beals, however, succeeds in making the transition from an in­nocent, childlike girl to the multi· faceted, independent woman Eva is at the conclusion of the movie. 
The hands-down, unanimous decision on the recipient of the coveted "Best Credit Award" goes to Wig Creations, the wig suppliers. 
The movie's theme is fresh and creative, but the dual-plot execu­tion makes the movie fall on its face. Acouple ofbig names and some interesting plot twists cannot rescue the poor writing behind this movie. 
make a perfect combination. Rinaldo's worldliness and Viktor's benevolent naivety allow the two to survive, and eventually prosper, in the job Rinaldo lands for them with a circus in Budapest. 
Meanwhile, back at the castle, beautiful Eva is becoming an in­dependent woman through the tutoring ofher guardian, Frankenstein. Unfortuantely, these scenes seem only to interrupt the far more interesting tale ofVik.tor and Rinaldo. 
There never is any real doubt that Frankenstein's two creations even­tually will be reunited. Although separated for most of the movie, Viktor and Eva seem to have an extra-sensory bond which causes one to experience the other's emo­tions without understanding why. 
Rinaldo does his part to reinforce the viewer's conviction that the two will be reunited, when he gives Viktor his name. "Viktor," he says, "means 'he will win his desire."' 

During the separation, Vik.tor and Eva develop into man and woman, with real dreams and emotions. They become the most human characters in the story. Viktor, by the end of the movie, no longer is the gruff monster encountered by Eva in the early scenes. 
The situation created in the first halfof the movie creates a situation in which anticipation ofViktor and 
.Eva's reunion should rise dramati· cally. Instead, the two characters' stories progress separately until, in an awkwardly rough transition, they are thrown together again. The effect on the viewer is boredom. Halfway through the movie there is nothing left to anticipate. 
Ifthere is a climax, it is not ob­vious. The story just goes as far as it is intended to go, leaving no ques· 

Dr. Frankenstein (Sting) and his creation Eva (Jennifer Beals) in a scene/rom "The Bride." 
''Teen Wolf' a turkey of a movte• 
John Mennen and PhD Wolf 
Movie review 
Teen Wolf 
Playing at the 100 Center 
Movres ore rated on a lour -star scale. tour berng the best 
B 
asketball teams often get into 
hairy positions, but rarely do 
they turn out as well as they do in 
the movie "Teen Wolf." 
The movie stars Michael Fox, of 
lV's "Family Ties," as a high school 
student with the inherited ability to 
turn into a werewolfat will. Rather 
than hunting chickens and babies in 
the dark of the night, Fox's hairy 
alter-ego tears apart opponents on 
the basketball court. 
Atlantic Releasing Company 
made a smart move in delaying the 
release of"Teen Wolf." It was 
scheduled for a spring release, but 
the delay allowed Atlantic to cash in 
on Fox's movie success in "Back to 
the Future," one ofthe biggest hits 
of the summer. 
Unfortunately for Fox, his· reputa­
tion may be marred by the ap­
pearance of this mediocre movie in 
the wake ofhis smashing motion 
picture debut. 
Although "Teen Wolf' is an average-quality movie, it is not an average werewolf movie. The teen­wolfdoes not become a werewolf after being attacked in the night, nor does he get long hair only un­der the glow of a full moon. After his first full metamorphosis, the werewolfs father assures him that 
"Werewolves are people, just like anybody else." 
The teen wolfdoes not achieve fame only on the basketball court. While untransformed he is a plain student with no exceptional skills or appeal. As the wolf, he suddenly is everyone's friend. People love him everywhere. 
The movie attempts to take the age-old theme ofan average kid with growing pains and give it a new twist. However, neither the plot nor the intended humor is strong enough to make the movie a big success. 
Some unpredictability and humor adds to the initial excitement; however, boredom tends to set in toward the end of the movie, which is as predictable as the tides. 
Speaking of tides, a few creative 
, inventions do add to the lackluster humor of the movie. "Urban sur­fing," the sport ofcruising down the street on the top ofa van wearing a wild Hawaiian shirt, provides the only enjoyable excuse to listen to a soundtrack that should have been kept in a sound booth in Hol­lywood. The Beach Boys' "Surfin' USA" in these scenes is a welcome relief from resident nobody 

Douglas Brayfield's monotonous vocals. 
Another good aspect ofthe movie is its deviation from the average werewolf blood-and-guts fare. You can go to the movie with a squeemish friend without the the fear of seeing body parts floating randomly across the screen. 
On the down side, the rest of the cast is filled out by poor actors playing two-dimensional charac· ters. The movie has one obvious error, relating to the surfing motif. The setting appears to be Middle America, possibly Nebraska, as Cornhusker paraphernalia appears throughout the movie. However, when Teen Wolfand his friend do their urban surfing, palm trees fill the background. Experience has shown that palm trees are usually found by the ocean. Why surfon the roofofa van when you are near an ocean? 
For those who like to stay until the curtain drops, this movie's "Best Credit Award" (which we hope will be an Academy A ward category by 1989) goes to the those who fed the cast: catering by Tastebuds. 
One item of interest to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's viewers is the movie's co-star, Karen Ursitti. A recent graduate ofSaint Mary's, she was a speech and drama major who worked at various times for WSND, the campus radio station, and as an intern for the local NBC affiliate, WNDU-lV.ln "Teen Wolf," she is effective in the role ofthe girl next door. She does a nice job in a not· so-appealing movie. 
-

J 
-


Sports Briefs 
The ND Rowing Club will be meeting tonight at 7 
p.m. 
in room 123 of Nieuwland Hall. -The Observer 

The ND Rugby Club ~ill be meeting tonight at 7 

p.m. 
on the first floor of LaFortune. Anyone who is interested may attend, regardless of previous experience. Practice will begin Mon­day.-The Observer 


The ND Women's Soccer Club will be prac­
ticing today at 4:30p.m. and tomorrow at 4 p.m. on Stepan Fields. Anyone who is interested may attend. For more information, call Karen at 283-1362. -The Observer 
Prospective ND baseball players will be 
meeting today at 5 p.m. in the football auditorium in the ACC. Anyone interested in trying outfor the team should attend and bring a pen or pencil. -The Observer 
The ND Men's Volleyball Club will be 
meeting tomorrow at 4 p.m. in the Little Theatre in LaFortune. All returning members must attend. -The Observer 
The ND lacrosse team will be meeting and scrim­maging on Sunday at 1 p.m. on Cartier Field. All prospective players should attend. Those unable to make it should contact Coach Rich O'Leary at 239-5108.-The Observer 
Women's sports competitions in softball, 
soccer, tennis, golfand running (SK)will be part ofRun, Jane, Run, a women-in-sports weekend, which will be held by the YWCA Sept. 13 through Sept. 15. Representatives will distribute information today from 4:30 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. at the entrance to SAGA at Saint Mary's. Information and entry forms also will be available at the NVA office in the ACC until Sept. 6. -The Observer 
An NVAbiathlonwill be held Saturday at 10:30 a.m. at St.Joseph Lake. Registration is free but limited to the first 50 entries. The deadline for entries is tomorrow at 5 p.m. at the NVA office in the ACC. -The Observer 
The ND Water Polo Club will begin practice on Monday. For more information, contact Mike Roberts at 272-3971 or Tom O'Reillyat 283-3588 and lookfor details in Monday's paper.­
The Observer 
The ND wrestling team will be meeting on Mon­day at 5:15 p.m. in the football auditorium in the ACC. All prospective wrestlers should attend. -The Observer 
A grad-faculty tennis tournament will be 
held by NVA. There will be men's and women's singles and mixed doubles divisions. The deadline for entries is Wednesday, Sept. 4 at office C-47. For more information, call239-6100.-The Observer 

Thursday, August 29, 1985 -page 8 
A scuba-diving course is being offered by NVA. Anyone who is interested should attend an information meeting on Wednesday, Sept. 4 at 6 p.m. in room 219 of the Rockne Memorial Building. -The Observer 
Aerobics for men and women are being of­fered l?y NVA. Classes begin on Wednesday, Sept. 4, and will meet on Mondays and Wednesdays at 4 p.m. and 5:10p.m. and Tuesdays and Thursdays at 4 p.m. There will be a small fee for students, faculty and staff. Anyone who is interested may register in advance at the NVA office or before class in ACC Gym 4. For more information, call NVA at 239-6100.-The Observer 
Alightexercise class is being offered by NVAevery Tuesday and Thursday at 5:10p.m. inACC Gym 4, beginning Sept. 5. -The Observer 
A scramble golf tournament will be hetd by 
NVA on Sunday, Sept. I5. Students, faculty and staff may register as individuals or pairs. The deadline for submitting $4 greens fees to the NVA office is Sept. 11. -The Observer 
More NVAinformationis available by calling 239­6t00or by stopping by the NVA office in the ACC. -The Observer 
Sam Randolph survived a traffic jam that almost caused him to miss his teeoff time and shot a 1-under-par 69 yester­day to capture medal honors at the U.S. Amateur with a record-tying 36-hole total of 134. Randolph, the runner-up in this event last year, finished the two rounds on the 36-hole Montclair Golf Club at 6­under-par. He was three strokes ahead ofWalker Cup teammate and runner-up Duffy Waldorf of Tarzana, Calif. Defending champion Scott Verplank was eight shots behind the leader, but qualified for match play, which will be held through Sunday. Randolph had an opening-round S-under-par 65 and his 36-hole total tied the previous medal play mark set in 1979 by PGA tour player Bobby Clampett. -AP 
Indianapolis Colts owner Robert Irsay has 
agreed to provide his wife with monthly support payments ofabout $20,000 while the couple continues court-supervised divorce proceedings, Mrs. lrsay's attorney said yesterday. Bernard Rinella, who represents Harriet lrsay, said attorneys for the couple appeared before CircuitJudge Aubrey Kaplan and told the court an agreement to provide monthly support payments had been worked out. Kaplan already has granted Mrs. lrsay a temporary order preventingher hus­band from selling any of the couple's assests. Those assets include the National Football League Colts; Colt Construction Co.; homes in suburban Winnetka, Dallas and Bal Harbour, Fla.; property in Chicago; a sports complex in Owings Mill, Md.; part interest in the National League Montreal Expos baseball team; and an aircraft. -AP 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor ofLafortune. Briefs should be submitted on the forms available at the office, and every briefmust include the phone number ofthe person submitting it. -The Observer 
FloridaQB was manager last season 
Associated Press 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. -The name Pepe Lescano isn't very familiar to Florida Gator football fans, but the players know this year's third-team quarterback as the man who picked up their dirty socks and jerseys last season. 
Originally recruited as a player by Butler University in Indianapolis, Lescano became a team manager for the Gators last year. He was given a room in the athletic dorm and was able to eat free from the training table. 
This year as a walk-on quarter­back, all he gets is a hard time from the first-team defense and a slim chance that he'll everguide the team during a game this season. His name isn't even listed in the Florida foot­ball media guide. 
"Sure, he's a longshot, but I've seen 'em come in before," said Coach Galen Hall, who said with his scholarship limits he can't be too picky. 
Ayear ago, however, Kerwin Bell, who guided the Gators to a 9-1-1 record also was a long shot. Dale Dorminey, who was tapped as quar­
terback,  was  lost  for  the  season  
before the first game.  
Although  Lescano  passed  for  

I,400 yards as quarterback at Fort Lauderdale Aquinas High School and made the all-county team and played in the North-South all-star game, he wasn't recruited because of his size. He's 5-foot-11 and weighs 175 pounds. 
He only had one scholarship offer and that was from Butler. 
"My father (a supervisor for the Broward County school system)and my brother both went to Florida and I wanted to come here, too," said Lescano. 
In the spring of 1984, Lescano tried out for the team as a walk-on. He was listed No. 8 quarterback, while Bell was No.5. 
"They had a lot of tremendous quarterbacks here then. They had guys like Dale Dorminey and Roger Sibbald ahead of me to name a few," he said. "I got pretty discouraged. I played three plays in the Orange and Blue Game and handed off each time." 
He stayed on the team until early last fall, when he became an equip­ment manager. 

The Ohserr•er '-'otn· l>anu· otfkt·. lot'J!nl on !Ill" rhmJ tloor of l.al·ofllllll" S!Udt•n! Cl"n!t"f. ant"ph da,,ilkd adn·ni,ill!( from 'J J.m llnlil I r m. \1onda\ lhrou!(h hida\ Tbe f Jhserr·a ~a in! \ian·, oflkc lo,·arnlon lht· 1h1rd 11om ol IIJ!(!(ar <:ollq:'" <enln. Jlleph liJ"ilinl' from 12 ~~~ p.m un!ll ~ p 111. \lom­dal· !hOU!(h l·ndJ\ ikJdiont· lor nn;! d.t\ tla"ilinh I' ~ pIll .\II lia"ilinh mu'r he prepa1d. l"Hhn 111 pt·"on or In lllJII < hJr!(t· I' lllll"lll' rn fin·charac·



Classifieds 
tc.:r:-. t·r c...lJY. 

Storage. Large barn on Mishawaka Ave.  LARGE CARPET REMNANT FOR SALE.  MORRISSEY LOAN FUND  
L.,__N_o_TIC_Es___.Jl  \  LOST/FOUND  at Ironwood. On bus line. 8 mon. lease $100.00 mon. 255-9078  SOLD INTACT OR CAN BE CUT. EX­CELLENT CONDITION. REASONABLE PRICE. CALL JOE x1544 7-10 PM  PERSONALS  $2Q-200 30 days · 1I onterest 11:30-12:30 M-F  
MALE  ROOMMATE  WANTED  TO  LaFortune Basement  
- $10-$360 Weekly/Up Mlliling Circulara• No boeaea/quotaa' Sincerely interested ruah aelf-addresaed envelope: Dept AM­7CEG. PO Box 830. WoodBlock. IL 60098.  LOST: L.L.Bean blue book beg from outside the NO bookotore on 8/27 con­tents were black checkbook,Ti 35 cal­culator,gold Crose pen. brown notebook with course ochedule and course adjust­ SHARE COSTS IN 2-BEDROOM HOUSE. FULLY FURNISHED. IN LEEPER PARK. LESS THAN 2 MILES FROM CAMPUS. $150/MO. CAU STAN 287-4024.  BIG REFRIG. FOR SALE. ASKING $100. CAU ROB AT 3249. OR STOP BY 135 KEENAN.  HI I'M JAMIE OBRIEN AND I AM IN CHARGE OF DELIVERY OF THE NEW YORK TIMES. IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO SUBSCRIBE GIVE ME A CAU 283-2043  Thank you S!. Jude, for favors granted JG  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4062 BASKETS, RUGS AND POTTERY PLUS LOTS OF UNIQUE JEWELRY, CLOTHES AND BOOKS. THE ST. FRANCIS SHOPPE, BEHIND FATIMA RETREAT CENTER, NOTRE DAME.  ment forms. glasses in a black case.tan Ray Ban case and other articles. REWARD offered.Call JEFF GRIFFIN 288-5352. ................................................................• FOR RENT  Large sleeping room and kitchen privileges for 2 or 3 students. 50859 U.S. 31 N.• 272-7599. FEMALE ROOMMATE WANTED TO SHARE APARTMENT WITH THREE FEMALES AT NOTRE DAME APART­MENTS. AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY. FOR MORE INFO CALL MARGARET AT 232·6069 OR 283-4088.  TICKETS ······································ PLEASE. I REALLY NEED 2-3 TICKETS FOR THE MICHIGAN STATE GAME. WIUING TO PAY ANY$$$$$. PLEASE CALL SCOTT AT272-9518. NEE04 MICH. ST. TIX 272-2454  ATTENTION SENIORS limited space still available for the SENIOR CLASS BAHAMAS TRIP Oct. 19-25. Full payment -$460 -due no later than Fri., Aug. 30. at 1st Source Travel offices (Badin. Oecio. Haggar Col­lege Cnlr.). Don't miss out on this FUN TRIP to the BAHAMAS.  Aldi Food& -Quality food at diocounl prices Eddy a! Howard S!. Charcoal $1.99. Coney Buno $.29. Jeno Pizza Seuo or Combo $.79 To TEDOY BECCHETTI, wflo'o ALWAYS READY, Happy Birthday honey! Karen misses you. Love. Mar & the gang.  
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-811117  APARTMENT  FOR  RENT  PERFECT  WANTED; 2 TIX FOR U OF M GAME AT  SENIORS!! SAVE ON BAHAMAS! YOU  
FOR  GRAD.  STUDENT.  1-1/2  ANN ARBOR ROBERT AT 256-9346.  CAN  STILL  GO. TAKE  OVER  MY  
SAVE $$$ ON YOUR TEXTS!! USED  BEDROOM.  ALL  UTILITIES,  STOVE  ATTENTION SENIORS!! Thurs. Aug. 29  DEPOSIT  OF $150 AT A SAVINGS.  
CLASS BOOKS BOUGHT AND SOLD. PRESENT THIS AD AND RECEIVE AN  AND REFRIG. FURNISHED. EASY WALKING DISTANCE TO CAMPUS.  FOR SALE  WIUING TO TRADE LSU. MISS. ARMY NAVY FOR MSU. CALL SCOTT 1924.  is last day to make $310 final payment for Senior Class Trip to the BAHAMAS.  PLEASE CALL POSIE 4015 OR AT 450 FARLEY SOON!  
EXTRA $5 OFF OF $50 PURCHASE.  ONE YEAR'S  LEASE.  NO PETS OR  Make  payment  at  1st  Source  Travel  
PANOORA"S BOOKS 937 SO. BEND AVE. 233-2342. Lovong mother will babysit in her home  CHILDREN. $275/MONTH. $200 DAMAGE DEPOSIT. REFERENCES REQUIRED. CALL ~32-1405 DAYS; 2n­0151 EVENINGS.  1978 Chevy Malibu Classic AM/FM. Air, New Tires. Battery. Muffler $1 ,600 or offer 2n-sa33  Wan! 10 exchange GAs. 2 Michigan State or 2 Army for 2 USC or 2 LSU Call 2n­0526 after 6 PM  offices (Badin. Oecio. Haggar College Cntr.) DON'T LOSE YOUR DEPOSIT  trendies will bop lonile at Senor Kefly"o 10:00PM YO ANN. GET ME MY BEERS AND BON  
juot north of campus. 2n-2484.  Nolice to whoever olole !he couch from  BONS!TESS. YOU KNOW R.R. RULES'  
Fa..Fa..Fashoon tonile at Senor Kelly'o 10:00PM  5-bdrm. house, haH mile from campus. 19095 Cleveland. $160/mo./penoon. Call Jim 2n-2194 or 674-6595.  PORTABLE ELECTRIC TYPEWRITER. EXCELLENT CONDITION. CALL JIM AT 239-7739, DAYS ONLY  DESPERATELY NEED MICHIGAN STATE TIX FOR LITTLE SIS. URGENT' IF I DON'T GET THESE MY PARENTS  first floor of Fisher: You're sitting on dried urine. Why do you lhink it was oul in the hall anyway? ENDAD  EUYN. NO SNOOZE BUDON YOU HEAR?DEB&M.S. 2 FLIGHTS ISN'T BAD SO LET'S PARTY!MARIA I WAS  
WILL NEVER  FORGIVE ME! TRADE  WANTING  TO  SAY  LET'S  ENJOY  
FFFFFFrankiesaybopat­SenorKelly'otoniteat1O:OOPM  Private entrance, two room furnished, uti~ties pllid. Call mornings 288-0955.  3FT WO ROLL UPS. RUST AND GREEN CARPET. CALL 2879341 .  FOR OTHER HOME GAMES OR MANY $$$. CALL JOHN ]1158.  Interested in lnter-Varoity Christian Fel­lowship? Call Sheila 1884. Kevin 1883  SENIOR YEAR! I MISSED YOU GUYS! LOVE, MOUSE  
.................................................................  
- 

The Observer Thursday, August 29, 1985 -page 9 
Notre Dame Facility Hours 
Rockne Memorial 
Monday through Friday 7 a.m. to 1 1 p.m. Saturday and Sunday 10 a.m. to 11 p.m. 
ACC 

Monday, Aug. 26, through Sunday, Sept. 1 Monday through Saturday 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. 1 p.m. to 10 p.m.
Sunday 
Normal fall schedule resumes Monday, Sept. 2 Monday through Saturday 8 a.m. to 11 p.m. 
Sunday 10 a.m. to 1 1 p.m. 
Student ID required for use offacilities. 
ND/SMC, we need your help! 
The Observer news department has immediate openings for dedicated, energetic people interested in reporting and writing the news. We currently are developing a staffofwriters who care about what goes on at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's and who want to keep people well-informed. If you think this could be for you, why not give us a call? We'll stick a pencil in your hand and a notebook in your pocket and put you on the heat right away. 
INTERESTED? Call Dan McCullough, Keith Har­rison or Tess Guarino at 239-5303 TODAY! 
Associated Pre88 
White Sox 5, Rangers 1 
CHICAGO Gene Nelson combined with two relievers on a six-hitter, and Bryan little hit a three-run homer as the Chicago White Sox beat the Texas Rangers 5­1 last night. 
Nelson, 8-8, gave up four hits, struck out four and walked six in his five-and-two-third innings of work. He got one-and-a-third innings of help from Juan Agosto, who gave up one hit, and Bob james pitched two one-hit innings to finish up. 
little's homer, in the fifth inning, was only his second of the year and carne with the White Sox nursing a one-run lead, 2-l. 
ln the third inning, Rudy Law scored the go-ahead run for Chicago on an error by losing pitcher Dave Stewart, 0-5. Stewart had completed a double play at first and, thinking there were three out, tossed the ball to the mound as Law dashed horne for a 2-l White Sox lead. 
Royals 8, Brewers 2 
MILWAUKEE -Darryl Motley hit three-run horne run, and Steve Bal­boni added a two-run shot to power the Kansas City Royals to an 8-2 vic­tory over the Milwaukee Brewers last night. 
Royals right-hander Mark Gubicza, I 0-7, allowed six hits while walking one and striking out three; in eight innings, and Dan Quisenberry finished up. 
Losing pitcher Pete Vuckovich, 6­l 0, worked five innings, allowing seven hits while striking out two and walking four. 
The Royals grabbed a 1-0 lead in 
the first inning when Lonnie Smith 
drilled a one-out homer into the left­
field stands. 

The Royals extended their lead to 4-0 in the third on Motley's homer and added one more on White's con­troversial horne run in the fifth. With two out, White hit a line drive that Brewers right fielder Carlos Ponce claimed hit off the top of the fence. However, second base umpire Rich Garcia ruled the ball as a horne run. The home run was White's 18th of the season, a career high.
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Twins 6, Blue Jays 5 



I TONIGHT !
bases-loaded single over a drawn-in 
MINNEAPOllS-Torn Brunansky's the sixth game-winning RBI this season for Rose, who collected two 
t t 
t is the night!!! 
1

t t t ' 
f If you would like to write sports for The : t Observer, and have never done so before, ' , come to a meeting tonight at 7:00 In the t : Observer office on the third floor of t ' Lafortune Student Center. Everyone is t : Invited to attend this short meeting. t 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 


Senior 


Best Subs around Our Pizzas are great 

Buy a 22oz Senior Class Cup 
We11fill itfor $1.00 
Bring a date, it's a great place to dance ... ~~"~,.......~~~~~~~ 


Baseball races become tighter 
Brunansky, who hadn't driven in a run since Aug. 16, had only one hit in his previous 18 at-bats and his average had fallen to .241. Kent Hrbek led off the lOth with a single offTorn Henke, 3-l. 
One out later, Randy Bush singled Hrbek to third and Mark Salas drew an intentional pass to load the bases for Brunansky. Jim Acker relieved Henke and Brunansky delivered a line drive over second baseman Manny Lee's head. 
The hit made a winner of Pete Fil­son, 4-5, the third Twins pitcher. 
Indians 7, Red Sox 4 
CLEVELAND -Julio Franco hit a grand slam homer off reliever Mark Clear in the seventh inning as the Cleveland Indians beat the Boston Red Sox 7-4 last night for their seventh victory in eight games. 
Cleveland left-bander Jamie Eas­terly, 3-0, got the victory, allowing seven hits in six-and-two-third in­nings in his first start after 41 relief appearances this year. 
He left with two outs and the bases loaded in the seventh. Reliever Bryan Clark got Wade Boggs to foul out to left to end the threat. Clark allowed a two-run horner to Tony Armas, his 18th, in the eighth, and Ron Reed pitched the final one-and­two-third innings for his third save. 
The loss was the fifth straight and the 1I th in 12 games for Boston. Red Sox starter Tim Lollar, 5-9, took the loss. 
Reds 7, Cardinals 6 
CINCINNATI -Pete Rose drew a bases-loaded walk off reliever Ricky Horton to force in the winning run in the 12th inning last night as the Cincinnati Reds, who earlier overcame a six-run deficit, beat the St. Louis Cardinals, 7-6. 
The loss snapped a seven-game winning streak for St. Louis, leader of the National League East by two­and-a-half games over idle New York. 
Losing pitcher Jeff Lahti, 2-2, sur­
rendered singles to Dave Concep· 
cion and Dave Van Gorder to start 
the 12th before Horton carne on to 
retire Ron Oester on a popped up 
bunt and Wayne Krenchicki on a 
grounder. 
Pinch hitter Tony Perez was in­
tentionally walked before Rose 
drew the walk on a 3-1 pitch. It was 

infield in the 1Oth inning gave the hits in six at-bats, meaning he needs Minnesota Twins a 6-5 victory over just nine to break Ty Cobb's all-time the Toronto Blue Jays yesterday. hit record of 4,191. 
ARTISTS: 
Get Some Exposure! 


Several paid positions are open for: 
• 
illustration • editorial cartooning 

• 
advertising art • graphics 

Come up to the Observer office on the 3ru floor of LaFortune to apply. 

• 
Fill out a short application 

• 
Leave it with 3-5 examples ofyour wori-. 


the front desk. (Please use pen and ink or black felt tip--: • ball point pen.) 
DEADLINE -5 P.M., SEPT. 4 
Reliever Ted Power, 5-4, pitched two scoreless innings to pick up the win. 
Astros 3, Cubs 0 
HOUSTON Nolan Ryan combined with Jeff Heathcock on a four-hitter to snap a personal dght­game losing streak and lead the Houston Astros to a 3-0 victory over the Chicago Cubs yesterday. 
Ryan, 9-11, collected his first win since June 17 and snapped a losing streak that equalled the longest of his career, but he had to leave the game with a strained right shoulder with two outs in the seventh inning. He allowed four hits while striking out eight and walking two. 
Jay Baller, 0-2, was the loser, al­lowing one run and six hits in seven innings. 
Heathcock collected his first save with two-and-a-third innings of hit­less relief. 
Braves 6, Pirates 1 
ATLANTA -Bob Horner hit his 22nd horne run and Bruce Benedict had a two-run double yesterday as the Atlanta Braves beat Pittsburgh 6­1 to hand the Pirates their 17th con­secutive defeat on the road. 
It was the third victory In a row for the Braves since Bobby Wine replaced the fired Eddie Haas as manager on Monday. 
Len Barker, 2-6, gained his first victory since May 13. He went five innings, allowing three hits with three walks and five strikeouts. Craig McMurtry went the final four in­nings, giving up one hit for his first save. 


Two upset at U.S. Open tournament 
AMociated Preu NEW YORK-Teen-age sensation Gabriela Sabatini of Argentina and Wimbledon finalist Kevin Curren were upset yesterday, but former champions Chris Evert lloyd, Mar­tina Navratilova and Jimmy Connors won first-round matches in the U.S. Open Tennis Championships. The lOth-seeded Sabatini, who as a 14-year-old reached the third round here at the National Tennis Center last year, fell to Barbara Pot­ter 6-4, 6-2. Guy Forget of France ousted the fifth-seeded Curren 7-6, 6-1,6-2. Two other seeds lost on day two of America's premier tennis event. Czechoslovakia's Andrea Holi.kova eliminated No. 9 Kathy Rinaldi 7-6, 7-6, and Argentina's Martin Jaite downed No. 14 Henrik Sundstrom of Sweden 6-4,2-6,6-2,6-3. 
lloyd, top-seeded in the women's singles, crushed Australia's Janine Thompson 6-1, 6-3; defending champion Navratilova rolled over Pascale Paradis of France 6-2, 6-1, and Connors battled his way past South Africa's Gary Muller 6-4, 6-3, 4-6,6-2. 
Other seeds advancing to the second round were No. 2 Ivan Lendl and No. 9 Miloslav Mecir, both from Czechoslovakia, and No. 7 Yannick Noah of France in the men's singles, and No. 4 Pam Shriver, No. 11 Steffi Graf of West Germany and No. 13 Catarina llndqvist ofSweden. 
Lendl rushed through Jay Lapidus 6-2, 6-1, 6-3; Noah ousted Jeremy Bates of Britain 6-3, 7-6, 6-3; and Mecir battled back from near­elimination to stop Andy Kohlberg 5-7,4-6, 7-6(7-4),6-3,6-I. 
Shriver defeated Denmark's Tine Scheuer-Larsen 6-3, 6-3; Graf downed Patty Fendick 6-4, 1-6, 7-5, and lindqvist crushed Melissa Gur­ney 6-1, 6-0 . 
The Observer Thursday, August 29, 1985-page 10 

Judge drops sports bribery charges against Tulane player Williams 

NEW ORLEANS -A state judge threw out all of the sports bribery charges against John "Hot Rod" Wil­liams yesterday, saying that prosecutors forfeited their chance at a new trial by using dirty tricks in the first one. 
The first one ended in a mistrial on Aug. 1 5 after two days of tes­timony. The mistrial was deliberately provoked by prosecutors who knew their case was going badly and wanted to make a fresh start with a new jury, District Judge Alvin Oser said in his ruling yesterday. 
The prosecutors withheld tape recordings and photographs that would help to acquit Williams, and to try him again on the same charges after such prosecutorial misconduct would amount to double jeopardy, Oser ruled. 
The former Tulane University and 
U.S. Basketball League star is now, apparently, free to sign with the Cleveland Cavaliers of the National Basketball Association. 

Tickets 
continuedfrompage 12 
Another problem encountered last year which slowed the distribu­tion oftickets was that some applica­tions were printed with incorrect class years for the students holding them. When these students at­tempted to buy tickets with their classmates, they were told to return the following day. 
This time, Bobinski has asked every student who feels that the class marked on his application is in­correct to obtain a letter of class verification from his dean. This let­ter is to be brought to the ticket win­dow when tickets are issued. 
These changes should make ticket distribution go faster this year, but Bobinski said he still expects some students to wait in line for hours before the ticket office even opens. 
"I'm sure it will happen again," he said. "I went through the same thing when I was a student here (in the late 1970s). We lived and died by getting as close as we could to the 50-yard-line. Whether or not it's worth that effort, I don't know." 
Nonetheless, the students who do "camp out" for football tickets will be rewarded with what they are after: the best seats in the stadium. 
"The kids who are out there first on Monday will be right there on the 50," Bobinski promised. "If it's worth it to them, I'm sure they'll be out there." 
For those students who are less concerned about being in the prime seats, Bobinski said he expects a wait 
The Cavaliers gambled on an ac­quittal and drafted the 6-foot-10 Wil­liams in the second round despite a commissioner's letter saying Wil­liams was a risky pick because ofthe charges hanging over him. 
In New York, Gary Bettman, NBA general counsel, said of Williams' status, "It's a matter for further study." He added that any signing is subject to the Commissioner David Stem's approval "and certain cases may require further inquiries." 
Williams faced a total of 1 7 years in prison and 535,000 in fines on three counts of conspiracy and two counts of taking bribes to shave points against Southern Mississippi and Memphis State. He was con­sidered a cinch first-round NBA pick before the scandal erupted. 
Defense lawyer Michael Green of Chicago said he believes Williams is now free to sign with the Cavaliers. 
"My opinion is that when one is 
presumed innocent, no one can take 
their livelihood away from them," 
Green said. 
Williams said he was happy with 
the decision and wanted to begin 
ofless than three hours. Most people should be able to arrange this waiting time around classes and meals, especially since one person can present the applications and ID cards offour students at once. 
Two years ago, ticket distribution began in the morning, so many stu­dents slept on the sidewalk and missed several classes to wait in line and get better tickets. Last year, however, Bobinski changed the ticket office hours to the afternoon and evening so students would not have to sacrifice class time to wait in line. One disadvantage of the new system is that Bobinski was forced to estimate the number of tickets Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents will request. In previous years, student applications were collected before alumni, parents and faculty bought their tickets. Now, however, Bobinski has only a limited supply to offer the students. 
"What I've done is hold a certain number of tickets, based on histori­cal figures backfor the last 15 years," Bobinski said. "We're hoping that number of students comes out and orders tickets. 
"If the student number falls short, then I'm going to be left with tickets that will be available for whoever wants them," he continued. "Tickets that were allotted to the stUdents we will convert over to regular stadium tickets and then have to sell those. 
"There's a little bit ofa risk on our 
part because we would rather not 
have to do that," he continued. 
"Once we call a game a sellout to our 
alumni, I'd like to keep it a sellout." 
Bobinski said he is planning on 
about 8,000 Notre Dame students working with the Cavaliers. He said he's found it hard to stay in shape be­cause "there's nobody my size to work out with." 

However, Assistant District Attor­ney Bruce Whittaker said the state will appeal Oser's ruling. And U.S. at­torneyJohn Volz said earlier that he will investigate the possibility of bringing federal charges against Wil­liams. 
Among the materials disclosed after the trial started were tape recorded statements byJonJohnson and Clyde Eads, former players tes­tifying for the prosecution under grants of immunity, and a picture of star witness Gary Kranz posing with a mound ofcocaine. 
Johnson's statement contained statements that differed from what he told the grand jury that indicted Williams and the trial jury, Oser said. Producing it too late to help defense lawyers prepare for cross examina­tion was a violation of Williams' right to a fair trial, he said. 
Point guard David Dominique is the only other accused Tulane player. No trial date has been set. 
purchasing tickets and between 1,000 and 1,200 Saint Mary's stu­dents. But what if more than 9,200 applications come to the office? 
"Well, if that happens," Bobinski said, "you will see me on the toll road in a hurry." 
According to the records, though, the number of tickets purchased by students has been right around 9,000 for several years, so Bobinski said he does not think there is any danger ofa shortage. 
"I don't think there's any chance of that happening," the ticket manager said. "We've researched it 
sufficiently,  so  we're  covered  on  
that end.  
"There's  nothing  worse  than  

being short in this business," he ad­mits. "You just can't be, especially with the students here. It's a tradi­tional thing here that as many stu­dents who want a ticket can get one. I've gone to every length possible to assure that that happens." 
If, for some reason, there is a shortage of tickets available to stu­dents next week, Bobinski should find many people willing to direct him to the toll road. 
Thanks toyou... itworks... forALLOFUS 

APPhoto 

Chris Evert Lloyd, shown here after winning her sixth U.S. Open singles title last year, got one step closer to numberseven yesterday in New York as she crushedAustralta's]anine Thompson 6-1, 6-3. The top-seeded Evert Lloyd may have survived yesterday's first­round action, but two other seeds did not. The lOth-seeded Gabriela Sabatini of Argentina fell to Barbara Potter 6-4, 6-2, whtle No.5 Kevin Curren lost to Guy Forget ofFrance 7-6, 6-1, 6-2 in men'splay Tournamentplay continues today. 
SunshinePromotions Present 
The Guitar VIrtuoso Is coming to South Bend II 

Friday, September 6 8:00p.m. Morris Civic Auditorium 
A11 seats reserved $13.00 
Tickets available at the Century Center Box Office, Night Winds (Niles and Mishawaka), J.R.'s (La Porte) and Supersounds (Elkhart). 
... Don't miss the hottest 

CHICAGO TRIB DORM DELIVERY 


$22.00 7 days/ week all semester 
(Saint Mary's included) 
For more info call TIM 283-2163 

ONE TIME OPPORTUNITY TO SAVE 
VeryspeciaiOffer, DON'T MISS! ! i l 





-~· JIUilJ~l 
CAR STEREOS, -~_j D I 
AMPS & EQUALIZERS T LL ROAD ..... 
ONE BRAND SYSTEMS • 
FROM $297.00 to $1300.00 PORTABLES 
OR CHOOSE A RECEIVER TAPE DECK, TURNTABLE,APA/R OF SPEAKERS. 

Bring this :td befoFe Scptember8,1985 to ALL-TRONICS and you can ~------------------~ purcha~ one component of your choice at 10% OVER OUR COST, on brand : SAVE 200~:
! AUDIO 0: 

names like, Harmon, KARDON, Denon, NIKKO, Dual, THORENS, Parasound, ' VIDEO I
I I I · I

ADCOM, Scott, ELECTRO-VOICE, Sony, J.BL, Whafdale, EPICURE, Clarion, 
:ON ALL REPAIRS: 

JENSEN, Concord, MAJESTIC. Some items may be exempt from this sale. No 
: Coupon Exp. 9-30-85 : rainchecks, first come, first served. Welcome to Notre Dame! I I 
~------------------~ 

ALL-TRONICS 
6502 N. GRAPE ROAD, UNIVERSITY CENTER, MISHAWAKA PHONE 277-1801 



~4(Jt~C3l~---------------------------------------Th--u-rs_d_a_y_,A_u_g_u_st_2_9_,_1_9_8_5___
P_ag•e-l_l 

Campus
The Daily Crossword 
•3:00 p.m. · Ticket sales, Tina Turner con­
ACROSS 
cert, Rock du Lac record store, Sponsored by 
1 lcecream 
Student Activities Board, 115.00 

Ingredient 
•7:30 -10:00 p.m. -Flashlight Croquet
5 Seductive 
Tournament, South Quad, Sponsored by
women 10 Make-believe 
junior Class, n.oo per pair 14 Dub 15 -atlme 16 Hoop or skirt 
Dinner Menus 17 Ah,me! 18 Strong thread 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's
19 Touched down 20 Go whole hog 
Dublin Broil Baked Chicken
23 Mona­24 The others 
Stir Fried Beef & Green Pepper Lasagna 25 Solemnly 
Egg Rolls Chicken Salad Supreme on a Crois­Swedish Pancakes 
Impressive 
sant Vegetarian Chow Meln 
28 "-Barbara" 
(Shaw) 31 Gist 32 Rose of­34 "Three Men ­


TV Tonight
Horse" 37 Finish quickly 
7:00p.m. 16 Cosby Show 34 Mystery: "Rumphole of the Bailey:
40 Crude metal 
22 Magnum,P.I. Rumphole's Return"
41 Sandhog milieu 
28 ABC Thursday Night Movie: "The !O:OOp.m. 16 NewsCenter 16
42 Verdi work 
Final Countdown" 22 22 Eyewitness News
43 Spree 
©1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
7:30p.m. 16 Family Ties 28 Newswatch 28
All Rights Reserved

44 Derisive 
8:00p.m. 16 Cheers !0:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show
remark 
22 Simon & Simon 22 U.S. Open Tennis Highlights
45 Cuff 7 Net 47 Provided that 8 Wan 
28 28 ABC News Nightllne 49 With precision 9 Meat dish 
34 Rivenown ll:OOp.m. 22 CBS Late Movie: "Ms. All-American 55 Fatal flaw 10 Participant 
8:30p.m. 16 NightCoun Beauty" 56 Baseball 11 Dismantled 
34 World War II: AGJ. Diary 28 Love Connection 
9:00p.m. 16 Hill Street Blues 11:30p.m. 16 Late Night with David Letterman 57 Castle defense 12 Nautically 
objective vessels 
22 Hometown !2:30a.m. 22 Nightwatch 59 Stale strongly heeling 
28 20/20 60 Action place 13 Small rug 61 Sicilian 21 Lubricate 
volcano 22 Maine town 62 Gainsay 25 Bullets 63 Fissures 26 Haveon 64 Forest 27 Simulate 

Get Involved! 
creature 28 Seine feeder 29 A Johnson DOWN 30 Face part 
The Observer has 
1 Collection of 32 Eschew anecdotes 33 Chin. factory 
positions open for 
2 Gas measures: 34 Migrant worker abbr. 35 Bulge 
evening layout 
3 Oriental 36 Remote 45 Drudge 52 Portent 
work. Two hours a 
servant 38 Fern stalk 46 Fabric 53 Regular 4 Firm 39 Redeemed from 47 Whiff procedure 
week. No 
5 Electrical detention 48 Soup makings 54 "Citizen-" units 43 Pastry shop 50 Burn 55 Inferior 
experience is
6 Loos or Bryant 44 Cut 51 Erudition 58 Gob 
necessary. 

MID .. EASTERN
99.9 PERCENT 

VEGETARIAN
That is the percentage of 

•· Vqetanall c1 IIHI Dulwe FOODS SHAWilizMA • MUOBDERA-BABA GHENOUJ
letters to the editor that we print. 
HOMMUS-FELAFEL ~ 
TIUJBOULI SAI.AD 

Write us. 

SOUTH BEND • I..EBANESB STYLE 
• Pit• Sw./fed s.u.dMdtu GYROS
joe Murphy 

•IHU,ht{ul Paetri~• • Turlli.h Col/~~ 288-5639
Viewpoint Editor 
Tu~• -Sat 5:30PM -9:30PM 

cor,.~~:rra i~~~~T'i'R 838 Portage
P.O.BoxQ IOi.Discount for ND/SMC Students
Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Bloom County Berke Breathed 

"5/N&l~ WHtre. OPI/5,Wl'f?6 RIGHT. llN/1 
YO(} Mlllfi... /1165
GIVIN6 W ~R€'5 Sf/R&ICI/t. &l.OV65...
GOrm 8!
ltJ(,R 0/..11 YOtl~ WH~R€ f 
Uffi7H£R SOCKS...
Pl/t.l!Nf;
JOB BliCK. lleSK. WI£Kt 1 
'Zt&GY'...
MYt£G... HOR5€ WHl
\ I \ g_ I 
Zeto Kevin Walsh 

The FarSi<Je Gary Larson 

I serDed the moilman'S fear as 
he opened -the ,gate. I 1 was /;ke a worm stench in fhe air--So 1hick you coulcl cut i+ wi-fh <A Knife. Suddenly, I felt myself 9rowin3 diZZ)'_--as if -fhe fear was some powerfUl drug. 1he entire yard be_9an reelin3. And 1hen I heCArd his so{ij plump calves bf>Bin 
callir?J io me: " Zeeeeeeeeek.. . zeeeeeeeek. .. b;te us, Zeeeeek.. . 
Creative dog writing 

~------·------~--------------------------------­





SRorts 
Drug testing may r be standard for postseason play 
HARTFORD, Conn. -Drug testing will become mandatory at all NCAA championship events and postseason football games under legislation being prepared by a special com­mittee, John Toner, the chairman of the com­mittee, said yesterday. 
Toner, formerly president !Jf the National Collegiate Athletic Association, said the six­member committee met last week to refine the proposals that would be made at an NCAA council meeting in October. The full NCAA membership would then vote on the legisla­tion at itsJanuary convention. 
"These recomendations will call for the in­itiationofdrug testing at all championship and postseason football games. If adopted, they'll be initiated next fall ( 1986)," Toner, athletic director at the University ofConnecticut, said in a telephone interview. 
Similar legislation was considered at the NCAA's 1985 convention in January but was sent back to committee, Toner said. At that point, Toner, the outgoing president, was ap· pointed to chair a special committee whose job was to formulate and refine a nationwide drug-testing policy for the NCAA. 
Toner, 61, said the first attempt to pass drug-testing "failed because membership was not satisfied with the legislation." 
"So we're bringing it back again. We've 

clarified many of the questions. We're satisfied that these recommendations are legally sound and justifiable in the moral sense ofthe word," he said. 
The other members of the special drug­policy committee are George Raveling, Uni­versity of Iowa basketball coach; Jackie Sherrill, Texas A&M football coach; Roy Kramer, Vanderbilt athletic director; Dr. Wil­liam Bradford, pathologist at the Duke Univer­sity Medical School; and Dr. Richard Hanley, who served as drug testing officer for the United States Olympic Committee. 
"All of our testing would be urinalysis," Toner said. "It would follow pretty closely protocol already established by the USOC. All championships would be subject to testing." 
Tonersaid that the testing would be used in conjunction with drug education programs that are being implemented at colleges nationwide. 
Thursday, August 29, 1985-page 12 

Student football ticket lines shouldn't be bad, 
ByPHILWOLF tance. Previously, applications were AsststantSports Editor mailed in the spring, and students were required to send in their remit­
You waited in line to enroll. You tance during the summer. waited in line to register your car. 
Tickets will be issued between 3You waited in line to change a class. 

p.m. and 8 p.m. next MondayYou waited in line to buy books. You through Thursday. Seniors willwaited in line to eat spaghetti in the receive their tickets on Monday,dining hall last night. 

juniors will get theirs on Tuesday,But you won't have to wait in line sophomores and grad students onfor football tickets. 

Wednesday and freshmen onAt least, that is the goal of Notre Thursday.

Dame Ticket Manager Mike The problem with the old system,Bobinski. 
according to Bobinski, was that the"Football tickets are important," ticket office workers had to searchBobinski admits, "but you shouldn't through a file manually to find eachhave to spend that much time just student's application as he steppedpicking up your ticket. That seems up to the window. The time re·like a ridiculous thing." 

quired for this process now will be 

Bobinski has initiated a new sys· eliminated, so lines should be tern for the distribution of student shorter this fall. tickets this fall, which he says should speed up the process considerably. "The basic reason behind (the The system is similar to that which change) was to make the issue has been used for the distribution of process a less time-consuming ex­basketball tickets in the past few perience for everybody," Bobinski years. said. "From our perspective, it's a 
Applications should arrive in stu­heckuva lot faster. Rather than have dents' mailboxes by tomorrow, and those awful lines and waiting for each person who desires to pur­hours upon hours, we're hoping this chase a season ticket will bring the will:>peed things up." application to Gate 3 of the ACC next week along with his remit-see TICKETS, page 10 
The Observer/File Photo 

According to Notre Dame Ticket Manager Mike Bobinski, next week's lines for students toget tbeir tickets to see GenyFaustandtbe Irish football team shouldn'tbe as bad as in pastyears. Phil Wolfdetails tbe situation at right. 

ND football replays cease to exist 
By MIKE SZYMANSKI athletic director Roger Valdiserri. "College tootball has become a Sports Writer regional sport in that every region in the country has a team live on 
television." 

For the first time in 15 years, delayed replays ofNotre Dame foot­ABC has a first-selection contract with the College Football As­ball games will not air on television. The loss ofboth the hour-long sociation, which includes Notre Dame, so ABC selects any game it highlight and full-game packages is a result of the increased air time desires. ESPN has secopd-selection rights to CFA games, with most of given to live telecasts today. its telecasts occuring during prime time. 
MetroSports, who put together the two shows last year, sold its "From the ratings, the networks and advertisers see no demand for 
Notre Dame football rights to TCS Broadcasting last year. TCS, a delayed replays with two live games on each station in one day. company presently in the midst of financial proble~, has decided Sponsors have been spread over into these games," said Valdiserri. not to prepare replays of Notre Dame games because no market 
exists for them. Notre Dame fans should not be concerned since eight games were "Now that the NCAA does not control college football telecasts, televised live last season, and there is a good chance that at least the many more live games can be shown," said Notre Dame assistant same number will appear this season. 

Halloran set to replace Flutie tonight for BC 
Auodated Press "I think the key is not to put 
pressure on myself," Halloran said. 
EAST RUTHERFORD, NJ. -Shawn "I am not Doug Flutie and I'm not 

Halloran hopes he won't have to going to be able to do the things· 
throw the type of last-second "Hail Doug Flutie did. I'm my own quar­
Mary" pass that catapulted Doug terback and I'm real confident that 
Flu tie into national prominence. But we're going to be able to win foot­
he also warns that Boston College ball games the way I play and I don't 
may not be entirely out ofmiracles. have to do any spectacular things. Ifl 
Flutie, major college football's all­can handle everything that's going 

time pass yardage and total offense on around me, then we'll do just 
king, will be on hand, bm only as a fine." 
spectator, when Boston College Halloran said Flutie has been to a 
meets defending national champion couple of practices "and he's given 
Brigham Young in the third annual me hints here and there on how to 
Kickoff Classic tonight. Halloran will throw certain balls and what to look 
be the Eagles' new quarterback. for." 
"Miracles? I'm sure there are some Halloran is a dropback passer who left and hopefully they'll come out describes his modus operandi as this year," the 6-foot-4, fourth-year "verysimilar to Dan Marino's type of junior said Tuesday. "I'm looking offense and Bernie Kosar," although forward to the opportunity offinally he quickly adds that "I'm just giving getting a chance to play." you a similarity. I'm not putting 
Sometimes it seems everybody myselfinto their category." 
wants to know whether there's life Actually, he hasn't played enough 
after Flu tie. But BC coach Jack Bick­to be put into any category. 
nell has more pressing problems. "It was difficult to sit on the 
"I'm not worried about quarter­bench," he conceded. "But I knew 

back," Bicknell said. "We don't have my role. They told me when they 
Doug Flutie, that's a fact. It's the recruited me that the average time 
most natural thing in the world for a for a quarterback's playing is a 
kid to graduate and this is a whole couple of years, and I have this year 
new year." and I have my fifth year, if everything 
Halloran is trying his best to keep goes well. Everything they told me 
APPholo 

from thinking about pressure. After  when they recruited me has hap­ Doug Flutie will be there tonight when Boston  field.  The job of replacing Flutte as tbe Eagles'  
all,  every other  Heisman Trophy  pened so I don't regret anything that  College meets Brigham Young in tbe KickoffClas­ quarterback this season falls to Shawn Halloran.  
winner also had to be replaced.  I've done."  sic, only he'll be in tbe stands instead of on tbe  







