
Tommy Shaw -page 6 

VOL XIX, NO. 134 THURSDAY, APRIL 25, 1985 
Senate coridemns higher activity fee 
By BOB MUSSELMAN 
Assistant News Editor 
A resolution which condemns the proposed increase in the student ac­tivities fee was unanimously passed at last night's special session of the Student Senate. 
"At least we're on record with the students as being in the right posi­tion," said Jim Domagalski, presi­dent of the class of '87, citing what he called student disfavor with the proposed action. 
More importantly, the proposed increase, which will be presented before the Board of Trustees for ap­proval in May, is considered by some a sure bet to pass. 
"It will go," said Lee Broussard, manager of the Student Activities Board, a point which Student Body President Bill Healy echoed. 
Broussard had presented a proposal at Monday's meeting which affirmed commitment to an increase in the fee, but called for the funds to be split between student government and student activities. 
lbe proposal which will appear before the trustees channels the money directly to the student ac­tivities office, run by Joni Neal. The funds are to be used for three purposes, according to Healy: 
•
Developing future undergraduate club nights. 

• 
Miscellaneous projects which in the past have been ignored because of insufficient funds, such as the recent Charity Ball. 

•Petitioned 
events, specifically class trips and dorm activities. 


lbe apportionment of the funds to the student activities office, which in the past has not received student-generated money, was the 
"I don't think givingjoni Neal $15 to lead us by the hand is the answer (to improving social life ),"said KC. Culum, senator of the second dis­trict. 
Debate concluded in the un­animous rejection of Broussard's proposal, though Broussard said the trustee-bound proposition is sure to pass and student government will have to learn to live with it. 
Several senators expressed con­stituent opposition to any increase whatsoever, thus the subsequent unanimously-passed resolution, deemed Resolution l 01, which was put together by Domagalski. 
The senate resolution confirms that there needs to be "more accoun­tability in student government," but decries the proposed increase in its present form as inappropriate. 
"The fee increase being proposed is inappropriate because it is the ad­ministration's way ofpaying for their commitment to student life with stu­dent activities fee money, which should be given to students to up­hold their commitment," Domagalski said. Most student fee funds are currently administered by some branch of student govern­ment. 
Lastly, the resolution ack­nowledges the need for such facilities as an undergraduate club as mentioned in the PACE report, but disagrees with the administration's means of achieving PACE's goals. Specifically, Domagalski said, the use of the student activities office as an intermediary in the process is "the wrong way to do it." 
The resolution proposes a com­mittee be formed to re-evaluate the implementation of PACE directives. 


The Observer/Vic Guarino

In your face! 
Freshman Matt Beeuwsaert hangs one in the hoop in yester­day's An Tostal slam dunk contest. Conducted on the Hammes Hardtop, the contest was won by senior Chuck Constable. Campus personalities, including Gerry Faust, Dan Duff, and Mary DiS­tanislao, judged the event. 
Hickey to act as temporary Saint Mary's president 
By THERESA GUARINO 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor 
For the second time during his tenure at Saint Mary's, William Hickey has been named acting presi­dent of the College, pending the ap­pointment of a new president in January. 
Hickey, vice president and dean of faculty, will be taking over for Presi­dent John Duggan, who announced his resignation earlier this semester. 
Out of town at the time of the an­nouncement, Hickey was not available for comment. 
Hickey served as acting president once before after the resignation of former President Edward Henry in 1974 until the appointment of Dug­gan in February 1975. 
The announcement came from Sister Madonna Murphy, chairman of the Board of Regents. The board recently appointed a presidential search committee to recommend candidates for president to the ex­ecutive committee of the Board of Regents. The committee will be con­sidering applicants this summer and early next semester. 
"It's a wonderful relief to me to know Dr. Hickey will be taking over," said Murphy. "No one knows Saint Mary's as well as he does, espe­cially after being both teacher and administrator." 
Hickey came to Saint Mary's as a biology instructor in ·1960. In 1969, he was awarded the Spes Unica award by the College, given annually to the most outstanding member of the Saint Mary's faculty. In 1972, he was appointed vice president of academic affairs. 
Administration defends South African investments 

Editor's Note: This is part three ofafive "be prepared for widening racial Africa. "Sudden change could trig­ministration that the United States having no influence or effective­part series dealing with the problems upheaval," said Father Richard ger violence," noted Tavis. When can best influence and change ness. If the corporation pulled out, in South Africa and the relation ofthis Zang, University investment of­asked how much progress has South Africa's system by working Tavis added,"there would be conflict to the Notre Dame com­ficer. been made using the Sullivan prin­through the South African massive unemployment." munity. Today's articlefocuses on the 111ere is a choice "between a ciples, Zang said "the pace of economy. "Companies have personalities University's policies of investing in peaceful or bloody transition," he 
"Withdrawal frightens me," said all their own," noted Zang. companies with interests in South said. Tavis. "It doesn't make sense to "They're made up of individuals Africa. "We should stay in and fight -if me. What does make sense to me is and some are morally sensitive like 
the key are the Sullivan prin­South to stay in." The Rockefeller report, two of Notre Dame's trustees, the By LYNNE R. STRAND ciples," said Professor Lee Tavis of one alternative, recommends that presidents of Coca-Cola and
Africa
StaffReporter the College of Business Ad­American corporations should not Skyline, who have committed ministration. pull out, but should not expand eit­themselves religiously and so­

Investments 
Evolution or revolution-what is The six Sullivan principles her. "But I say expand," said Tavis. cially." the best way to end South Africa's demand racial non-segregation, "The business community is the Zang considers his role as a national law ofapartheid? fair employment practices, equal most responsible group dealing "conscience-raising process." The 
According to the Notre Dame pay, administrative and technical change is picking up, but what with South Africa's system of apar­signatories of the principles are a administration, the answer is training programs -increasing the change is hard to say." theid." voluntary organization ofU.S. com­evolution, partly through invest­number of blacks, Colereds, and Ten of the University trustees The opposing view is that any panies who agree to abide by the 
ments in multi-national corpora­Asians in management and super­studied Notre Dame's investments money pumped in by corporations guidelines and also contribute 
tions. visory positions, and improving and issued Notre Dame's policy is contributing to the South African funds to the organization. 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, the employee's housing, educa­regarding investments in South government, and is indirectly sup­Zang cited six basic industries as University president, said the tion, and health. Africa. Hesburgh said, "I don't get porting apartheid. "truly multi-nationals" that Notre practice ofapartheid can be ended Notre Dame adopts the Sullivan directly involved." But, noted Zang, "The economy Dame has invested in: oil, drugs, by "bringing pressure on principles as a criterion for invest­Outlining Notre Dame's view­is the most important way for office equipment, electrical equip­economic affairs in South Africa." ing in American multi-national point, Zang said, "Apartheid is an blacks to progress." During harsh ment, rubber, and motors. He 
The administration plays a part companies. Said Hesburgh, outrageous policy, which Notre economic times, "Blacks are the added South Africa is "truly an in­in bringing equality for the blacks "They're the best thing we have at Dame is obviously very much first to suffer," he said. ternational" place for companies by using foreign investments to at­the moment." against. We will do what we can to "Divestment is not the best way to reside. tempt to break down South African Controlled change is the cor­bring about the destruction of this to help blacks," continued Zang. He would not comment on apartheid. If the American cor­nerstone of Notre Dame's invest­policy." "We would be terminating our 
see AFRICA, page 3

porations pull out of South Africa, ment policy concerning South Tavis agreed with the ad-dialogue with the companies," 
----~ -~----­
The Observer Thursday, April 25, 1985 -page 2 


City should put up a stink 
In Brief 

about its ethanol problem 
Arthur Grubert, who has served during the last year as assistant lO Isabel Charles, director of Foreign Study Programs at Notre Dame, will assume additional duties as director ofthe Interna­tional Student Affairs office next semester. Grubert will succceed Brother George Schmitz who has been appointed director of Prenovitiate Formation of the Brothers of the Holy Cross, Eastern Province, in the Bronx, N.Y. Duties of the International Student Af­fiars din:ctor include liaison with the U.S. Department ofjustice Im­migration and Naturalization Service and orientation of the new students to life in the United States and on the campus. There are 375 students from 64 foreign countries at Notre Dame this semester. ­
The Observer 

A Charlotte Newcombe Fellowship has 
been awarded to Father Simon Harak, S.J. Harak was given the award to complete his doctorate studies at Notre Dame. -The Observer 
First lady Nancy Reagan welcomed women from several countries to the White House yesterday for a "first ladies' summit" on drug abuse. The women, who came from all corners of the globe, represented countries that currently are under attack in Congress for flooding the United States with illegal drugs. President Reagan was to drop by for the first such "summit" ever held in the White House. -AP 
Of Interest 

Cuban author Reinaldo Arenas willlecrure 
today at noon in the Center for Continuing Education Little Theater. The title ofthe lecture will be "La escritura como re-escritura: textos y pre-textos." The lecture is sponsored by the Notre Dame depart­ment of modern and classical languages. -The Observer 
"The jackson Campaign As a Social Movement: An Analysis oftheJesseJackson Presidential Campaign" is the title of a lecture wnight by Lorn Foster, Jesse Jackson's campaign manager. The lecture, at 8 in Washington Hall, is co-sponsored by the Black Studies Colloquium, the Young Democrats of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, and Notre Dame student government. The public is invited at no charge. -The Observer 
The Collegiate Choir of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will present a concert tonight at 8 in Saint Mary's Church of Loretto. Conducted by Nancy Hank, professor of music at Saint Mary's, the program will include selections from Haydn, Handel, and Mathias. The public is invited to attend at no charge. -The Observer 
Lawrence Hoftinan, professor oflirurgy and related literature at the Jewish Institute of Religion of Hebrew Union Col­lege in New York and Father John Pawlikowski, O.S.M., professor of social ethics at the Catholic Theological Union in Chicago will give a joint lecture titled "When Christians and Jews Pray Together: A Guide to Guidelines" tonight at 8 in the auditorium of the Notre Dame Memorial Library. The lecture is sponsored by the University's department of theology as part of its Crown-Minow lecture series. ­
The Observer 
Weather 

Tans may fade as temperatures remain warm, but not up to the standards of a few days ago. Mostly sunny today with highs in the mid to upper 70s. Fair tonight with lows near 50. A 20 percent chance ofshowers tomor­row with highs in the mid to upper 70s. -AP 


The Observer 
The Obooerver (liSPS ~99 l-4000) is publlshc:d Monday through Friday and on hom<o rootball Saturdays. <oXC<opt during exam and vacation periods The Obooerver is publishc:d by th<o students or the llniversity or Notre l>ame and Saint Mary's CoUegc. Subscriptions may b<: purchased ror 130 per year ( S20 per..,. m<oster) by writing The Obooerver, P.O 
Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 46~~6 

The Obooerver is a memb<:r or The 
A-.claled PreM. All reproduction 
righL• ar~ reS<orv.,d. 
Production Consultant ....................Steve Design Edilor..............................Anne l.ong Design Assistant ........... Mark Mclaughlin Typesel/ers ................................ Vic Guarino News Editor........................ Mary Heilmann Copy Editor ................... Cindy Rauckhurst Sports Copy Editor.................. Larry Burke Vie·vpolnt Copy Editor......... Cindy Boyle Vlewpoim Layout............... Priscilla Kark Features Copy Editor............... Tim Adams Features Layout............................Tom Hall ND Day Edilor..........................Alice Grocr SMC Day Editor............................. Ed Nolan Pbotugrapber ........................... Vic Guarino 

The other day, I stepped out of my dorm into warm air, bright blue skies, blossoming flowers, and the sweet spring smell of... ethanol. 
Nothing else can ruin a beautiful morning so fast. Sometimes it reminds you of warm, stale beer on the carpet in the morning after a party. Other times it's sickly sweet. Occasionally it is so overpowering you want to run back inside and lock yourselfin a window­less room. You're sure that years from now, everything else from college forgotten, you will still be ahle to pick out that smell from miles away. 
Whatever its different moods, the "ethanol" odor has been with us at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's for the last six months. And its stay is not likely to end soon. 
The scent exudes from a corn processing plant on South Bend's southwest side (which is why it is par­ticularly strong when the wind is from that direction). The plant, opened last October by New Energy, Inc., rurns 60,000 bushels ofcorn a day into ethyl alchol (or ethanol), which is sold as an octane enhancer in un. leaded gasoline. 

Mary Healy 
Accent Editor 
tion has generated (far more than usual for towns with ethanol plants), South Bend Mayor Roger Parenl has formed a technical committee to study the problem and help pressure New Energy into doing something quickly. 
Notre Dame industrial chemistry professor William Strieder is one member of the committee. He believes an important first step toward figuring out the problem would be an "odor analysis" to give some definite measures of the extent of the smell. The test would in­volve carefully polling people at various distances from the plant at different 
Why such a stink from times of day, mapping out such harmless ingredients? the odor's strength in each The smell actually originates area. not from ethanol but from Strieder also believes a what is left over after the chemical analysis is needed corn has been fermented to find out exactly what and the ethanol boiled off materials are coming out of and collected -a wet corn the stacks and how much of mash. them are carried in the dust­
The mash, which is later like particles. Obviously, sold as a high protein animal little can be done about the feed supplement, tumbles smell before it is even through rubes as hot air is known what causes it. blown past to dry it. The air, The City Council has also mixed with water vapor, gotten into the act, telling 
then  goes  through  "air  
scrubbers"  that  are  
supposed  to  remove  the  

vapor and all mash particles floating in it. The problem is, they don't. Tiny dust-like particles ofdried corn mash escape from the scrubbers and fly all over South Bend, finding their way into noses at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
There is uncertainty over exactly why the scrubbers are going awry. New Energy originally said part of the problem was that the heating system was frequently stopped and started again as the plant slowly built up to full capacity. However, it has been at full capacity since late February, and though the smell has perceptibly diminished, it has by no means disappeared. 
The company admitted the scrubbers are not functioning as well as they should, and in March it spent S250,000 to upgrade them. It is testing a variety of modifications, and so far they appear to have reduced the escape of corn particles, but not of vapor. And the smell remains. 
In response to the plethora of complaints the sima-
New Energy it has until May l to cut down the odor or face the possibility of being shut down. But even that threat may not be enough. "It's going to be a while," says Strieder. "It's going to take some time before they straighten things out." The company itselfwarns it will prob<~:bly be at least eight to 
lO weeks before changes can be made. 
The city has already allowed the company ample time to get its act together. But so far, nothing concrete has been done. The warnings of a shutdown have been weak and conditional. The tests have been incomplete. It is time to get firm with New Energy and enforce a shutdown until the odor mystery is solved. 
Those of us this side of the ethanol plant (especially those who will be enjoying the fragrances of nature in South Bend all summer) don't want to wait months to smell any concrete results. 


Support the 
Colle!]e of Science Student Council 
March of Dimes 
announces the 1985
-BIRTH DHECTS FOUNDATION­
Dean's Run Distance: 7~ (twice around
Mr. Goodbar 
thelakee)

Here the Belles do not 
Date: Sunday, Aprll28
chime, only shuffle, race and climb. Before you sit 
Time: 12:00noon 
take great care, Mr. 
Registration 

Goodbar is beneath your 
Fee: $4.00 
derriere. 
• Tee-shirts for all registram:s 
When found-not before -call to verify: Mark or Paul at 
• Please register by Friday April26 at 5pm 
4115, orJoyce at 4121. 
in the Dean's Office, 229 NSH 



So you thought Spring Break was over! Well not at Tippecanoe Place. We are extending Spring Break with a special offerfor students. Bring this ad in/ora specialprice 'Break'. 
$1.00 OFF ourfabulous SundayBrunch Good on thefollowing Sundays: 
April21 April28 
May5 

670 W. Washington St.--Reservations Required--234-9077 


The Observer Thursday, April 25, 1985 -page 3 
Author raps U.S. social policies as a hindrance to progress 

In October 1978, the Board of divestiture policy to banks doing Trustees passed Notre Dame's business with South Africa. 
Thetisno 
doubtyou're going
tomakeittn 
therealworld,


butwhat 
aboutyourcar? 
(if)~ 

EASY RIDER 
TO AND FROM CHICAGO'S O'IIABE EVERY l HOURS EVERY DAY 
United Limo 
~HIDI 

' mfli, 
10844 McK10ley Hwy Osceola · ~..,jQIUftiiiiiJI11111
674.. 6993 ·...,i ~~.--~ liii1WIII 
255.. 3068 ,, ~II IIIII ' . . f ': t 'IIIN Hlllll 
or call your Travel Agent ··II IIIII htollllm•IIHI IIIWIIIIIIIIII•II eI ' I~ Jllllllllllllllllr.l 
Ford and Lincoln-Mercury have S400 for graduating seniors·toward the purchase of selected cars and trucks. 
Ford Motor Credit also has preapproved credit for qualified graduating seniors. Offers end August 15, 1985. For more information call Ford College Graduate Purchase Program Headquarters at 1-800-321-1536. 
RORD•UNCOLN•MERCURV 



Africa 
continuedfrom page 1 
which companies Notre Dame has invested in, but noted some of the signatory companies include "household names," ·such as General Electric, General Motors, Interna­tional Business Machines, and Kel­logg Company. "We do not have a great dependence" on the corpora­tions Notre Dame invests in. "It is not a question ofprofitability, but an issue of moral responsibility," he said. 

Zang prefers the term "selective investment," to examine companies, but not immediately eliminate them, and encourage them to live up to the Sullivan principles. "We expect them to be positive for racial progress ... I consider divesture like excommunication; it is not done right away, and only in hopeless cases." 
policy statement concerning the University's shareholder respon­sibility on investments in South Africa. Notre Dame will withdraw from a company ifthe company : will not adopt the Sullivan principles, will not initiate "progressive employment practices," fails to ef­fectively implement these practices, and if the company's presence in South Africa strengthens apartheid more than helping the non-whites. Notre Dame applies the same 
By CHRIS SKORCZ 
Senior StaffReporter 
Charles Murray, author of "Losing Ground: American Social Policy, 1950-1980," criticized U.S. social programs as detrimental to progress in his speech last night in the Memorial library auditorium. 
"Our priorities and target audiences are mixed up," Murray said. "The Reagan administration is lacking in compassion for the poor ofthis country. What I want from so­cial policy is someone to take care of the people keeping me safe and my children educated" 

Murray proposed that this country's poor would have been better off without the bureaucratic social programs such as the "Great Society" which were proposed in the 1960s. 
"The least contentious point in 'Losing Ground' is that thin~ took a turn for the worse in the 1960s for the poor. This is a mystery that has yet to be explained." 
Murray cited several particular problems that have afflicted the poor of all races and of all parts of this country. Unemployment, crime, inadequate education, and teenage pregnancies are the most significant problems today, he said. 
The divergence in the labor force participation between young whites and young blacks was a phenomenon of the mid-60s, he said. There is currently a 20 percent disparity in this figure as young whites comprise 60 percent of the labor force and their black counter­parts comprise only 40 percent, he added. 
A drastic increase in violent crime 
also has occurred since the mid-60s, 
Murray said. The crime rate was get­
ting markedly better in the late 
1950s but shot up to a highly dan­gerous level around 1962-63, he said. 

With the decline in the quality of education, inner-city teachers were forced to serve as crowd controllers and teaching no longer occurred, Murray said. He said this problem is unique to low-income families be­cause the middle-class families can cope with it by sending their children toschool outside the city. 
Murray said children born to single parents are "socially crippled." He used Harlem, where almost 80 percent ofall births are to single mothers, as an example of a problematic area. 
"Communities where large num­bers of children are raised without fathers are no longer functioning as communities," he said. 
Murray said he found it easier to enumerate the social problems than to actually propose effective solu­tions. He said, howevet:, the key to progress in social policy lies in "looking at the problems more seriously." 
"We have right now a situation that is theoretically good. But we have also constructed a system which allows us to say, 'Well, it's not our fault.' We must stop doing that," he said. 

Budweiser  
1/2bbl  $34.99  
Little Kings  
1/2bbl  32.99  
Old Milwaukee  
1/2bbl  28.99  
Red,Whlte & Blue  
24 Bottles  4.99  

The Observer Thursday, April 25, 1985 -page 4 
Help Prevent Birth Defects

Reagan makes budget appeal 
<4> 
Support the 
Assoclated Press 
WASHINGTON President Reagan, warning "our future hangs in the balance," implored Americans yesterday night to flood Congress with messages of support for a con­

, 
troversial budget plan pimming So­

r cial Security increases and 
r eliminating other programs. In a nationally broadcast address 
' 
r from the Oval Office, the president said, "We stand at a crossroads. The
'r 
hour is late. The task is large. The r stakes are momentous. I ask you to 
r 
join us in making your voices heard 

~ 
in the Senate this week and later in 

r 
the House." 

r 
f 
The president's speech came as the Senate postponed until today the beginning of debate on the budget package endorsed by the president and Senate GOP leaders to slash nearly S300 billion from expected 
deficits over three years. The goal is 

~ 
Attackers of clinic convicted 
Asllodated Pre811 
PENSACOLA, Fla. -A federal jury convicted two men yesterday on all charges stemming from three Christmas Day anti-abortion bom­bings, but found the wife of one and the fiancee of the other guilty only on a single conspiracy count. 
Matthew Goldsby and James Sim­mons, both 21, each were convicted on one count of conspiracy, three counts of bomb-making and three counts ofblowing up a clinic and the offices of two doctors where abor­tions were performed. 
Goldsby's fiancee, Kaye Wiggins, 18, and Simmons' wife, Kathren, 19, had been charged with the same counts but were cleared of all but the conspiracy count. 
'11te men each face maximum sen­tences of 65 years. The maximum for the women is five years. 
The jury had deliberated for 4% hours since receiving the case Tues­day from U.S. District Judge Roger Vinson. 
The defendants had claimed God told them to bomb the facilities. "Either God told these kids what to do or something's wrong up here," said defense lawyer T. Patrick Monaghan, pointing to his head, as he urged the jury to return innocent verdicts. 
Paul Shimek, a Pensacola lawyer representing Wiggins, argued Satan may have caused them to misin­terpret God's message. 
The defendants had code-named the attacks the "Gideon Project" after a biblical character told by God to destroy pagan altars where children were sacrificed. 
Monaghan, who represents Gold'iby, and Simmons' attorney, Frank Booker, argued the bombings weren't crimes under the "defense of necessity" because the attacks were necessary to halt the destruc­tion of human life and other means were unavailable. 
Vinson instructed the jury that a threat must be imminent in order for the defense of necessity to apply. He also said "good motive alone is never a defense when the act done is a crime." 
Please 
support the AMERICAN 
~ CANCER
1
fSOCIETY® 

to bring the deficit below S 100 bil­lion by 1988 without raising taxes. 
With Congress deeply divided over how to cut massive deficits, Senate Majority Leader Robert Dole said in advance of Reagan's address, "I think he needs to scare us a bit. We're all running around like we have a big (budget) surplus-don't cut this, don't cut that." 
In his speech, Reagan told Americans the nation faces "a serious problem that demands your immediate attention." 
With the national debt approach­ing S2 trillion, Reagan said the per capita debt amounts to nearly S8,000 for each American and is in­creasing about S 1,000 per person each year. The interest on the debt amounts to S155 billion now, he said. 
"'11tis is not just my problem; this is not just Congress' problem; this is our problem -and we must solve it together as Americans," Reagan said. 
He added, "Please tell your senators and representatives, by phone, wire or mailgram, that our future hangs in the balance, that this is no time for partisanship and that our future is too precious to permit this crucial effort to be picked apart, piece by piece, by the special inter­est groups. We've got to put the public interest first." 
Excerpts of Reagan's address -his first broadcast speech from the Oval Office in his second term -were released in advance by the White House. 
Republicans are worried many of the cuts will give Democrats strong political ammunition for next year's elections. Plans are being drafted by both Republicans and Democrats to salvage various programs targeted for extinction, deep spending cuts or freezes, and to protec~ Social Security.

....................................... 
t Affention Juniors ~ ~ ~ Pre-Law Society ~ t Spring General Meeting ~ t Mandatory informational ~ i(Tleeting for juniors planning t<* ~ attend law school ~ ~ April 29th, 7:30pm ~ 
~ library Auditorium ~ ~ Soghomores and Freshm~DJ~'eJcpro~ ~ 
...........................~'T 
~!~VEC~U2~~~ 

Do you like to be on top of things? Do you always want to know what's happening on campus? Ifso, get a job with the 
Publicity Commission ofthe Student Activities Board 
Positions as poster hanger are open for next semester. Please caD Meegan at 239-7757 
Notre DaDle Avenue ApartDlents 
NOWJIENTING FOR FAIL 
Completely furnished, balconies, laundry, and off-street parldng. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES 
(good dea,.for SummerSealon) Offtce at 820 ND Ave 
or caD 

open Mon-Fr13-6pm 234-6647
Sat ll-3pm 
~-----------------------------------------------------------,


....--·• $ $ave $ $ ---~ 
525.00 IO 5150.00 OFF$ave do SEE THIS MAP 
On any Rant-it-Hare, Leave-it-There 
FOR YOUR SAVINGS 
RENT FROM SOUTH BENO TO ANY

Ryder One Way Truck Rental 
OF THESE AREAS AND SAVE. 

Offer valid only with this coupon. Not valid with other specials.
RYDER 

SOUTH BEND rents trucks to move it yourself LOCATIONS 1914 Miami St.
Ryder Truck Rentai~One-Way 
2715 North Bendix Dr. 289-6721 AMX 

277-3550 OR 2627 South Main St. 
""'"'~ 
232-6729 
................~,~s•:~asB-.~:c...---r 

TrtMarl< ol Northern Indiana 219-2114-7239 6002-11-5710
L-----------------------------------------------------------..J 

We're #I in Making Student Loans 
Get cash to cover college expenses without the worry or the hassle. 
Visit our main office downtown, or call our 

MEMBER FDIC 


-----,..----~---------,_,________ 


View~_o_i_n__t_________
Th_ur-sd-ay-,A-pr-il2-5,_19-85-p-ag_e5 
Protestors are listened to but nothing is ever done 
1 

1 This past weekend, an estimated 30,000 nation's capitol time after time again, right The march itself was anticlimactic. No mass "We're here to listen." 1
,

people trod through Washington, D.C. in a there on my trusty 19-inch television. "What rock-throWing occurred. No shots were fired. I was very surprised to hear that, par­
1

1960 style protest march. Some carried do they really hope to accomplish by doing Except for the almost comic reliefpresence of ticularly taking the current administration's placards opposing the US -USSR arms race. that?," I would ask myself Everybody knows a band ofHare Krishnas that spent the day dan­seeming "see no evil, hear no evil, speak no 1 Some voiced their opposition to the Reagan that government officials never listen to such cing and chanting on the Ellipse, the scene evil" posture. Maybe the idealism of the '60s 1 administration's policy toward the outbursts-they just turn up the air condition­was similar to that of tour buses arriving at an was not dead yet. Maybe something would Nicaraguan contras. Still others spoke out on ing in their offices to drown out the din. This NO football game. People from all parts of the come ofthis beside!> overtime for D.C. police. , ~ 
time, however, I found myself in a different country emerged from cars, vans, campers, I now half-expected some sort of official 
,

vantage point. This time I was in their midst, RVs, and buses and joined the rapidly growing response. I left the capital curious as to what I not sitting in front of the tube hundreds of gaggle of humanity that oozed through the would read in the next day's paper. Surely
John Perez 

miles away. heart of the city. "Oh well," I said, "the result some action would be forthcoming. Unfor­I had planned to simply visit all the will probably be the same as all the marches tunately, I was wrong once again. Basically 
just wondering obligatory tourist traps -the White House, the I've seen on TV. It will make the evening news nothing happened. Capitol and Washington Monument. as the reason why the city's traffic was un­I remain amused and confused about Naturally, I was surprised when the first thing usually slow, and that is about all." Once again protest marches, but now it is for a different 
issues as diverse as farm price supports and I encountered on the Mall was a large column I was wrong. reason. I once thought nobody listened. I was abortion. It was just like a carnival · people of motorcycle cops carrying riot gear. I Despite the fact that it was a Saturday and wrong -the people's opinions are being heard. were hawking bumper stickers and buttons at prepared for the worst when I saw their shot­most government offices were officially What bothers me now is why nothing happens the same time they waved their splashy, multi­guns and gas masks. I was even more surprised closed, there were a significant number of as­nonetheless. colored posters at the crowd along Pennsyl­when a nearby officer informed me that a sorted government officials in attendance. vania Avenue. march was scheduled for that afternoon and Their dose-cropped hair and inevitable ID 
In the past, I would have looked at such a that they were merely taking routine precau­badges marked them as such. "What are you john Perez is a junior accounting major at ,1 display with a mixture ofamusement and con­tions. I felt nothing short of World War III guys here for? " I asked of one civil servant. Notre Dame and is a regular Viewpoint , fusion. I had seen such swarms descend on the would merit such preparation. "Isn't this your day oiD" His reply was brief: columnist. ,
,
,
,



P.O.BoxQ , ., 
Pettifer's defenders missed Casey's point 

Dear Editor: 
The two gentlemen who sprang to the defense ofAnn Pettifer did an admirable job of explaining what she sees wrong in the church and its authority figures. However, they also missed the point of Dan Casey's letter. Casey commented less on the actual views held by Pettifer and more on the way she chooses to express them. 
I personally find Pettifer's articles to be the literary equivalent of terrorism. A terrorist wants so badly to emphasize the depth of his or her purpose that often the method chosen for expression turns out to be non-germain. For example, parking a car-bomb in downtown Jerusalem does not have much ef­fect on the pursuit of a Palestinian homeland, but it certainly calls attention to the PLO. Similarly, Pettifer wishes to comment on the sexism present in the church, but uses shock tactics to demonstrate the strength ofher con­victions -shock tactics that do not have much to do with the issue at hand. Do you think clitoral circumcision provides a good analogy for sexism in the church? 
The problem with that choice ofmethodol­ogy is that most unsympathetic parties lose in­terest. Maybe the PLO has a point. Maybe so does the IRA. The Black Panthers had some legitimate gripes. So does Pettifer. The fact of the matter is when any person or ~oup starts using the socially and philosophically out­rageous as a principle tool for persuasion I, 
Doonesbury 
and a lot ofpeople like me, just tune them out. Pettifer's criticisms of the subjugation of women in the church, when decifered, raise valid issues and could invoke a call to action, if the readers are not so disgusted or amused that they do not take her seriously. 
Dan Casey merely turned the tactics around a bit, and from the response in Box Q column, it appears that a few people caught his attempt at shock inducement. It's too bad they didn't notice it in Pettifer. Ifthe role ofwomen in the church was questioned in a plain-spoken way, as it was by those who attacked Casey, the whole issue would be better served than the shock tactics employed by Pettifer. 
jeffBorkowski Notre Dame student 
Rice's abortion analogy is fitting and powerful 

Dear Editor: 
-Vernon Marchal suggested in his Viewpoint column ofApril 17 that the morality ofcertain kinds of killing is determined by the political philosophy of the government(s) authorizing the killing. 

He castigated Professor Charles Rice for Rice's analogy between the Nazi holocaust of six million Jews in the 19 30s and 1940s and the abortion slaughter, since 1973, of 15 mil­lion unborn children in this country alone. 
My reading ofRice's analogy is that he views both types of killing as deliberate homicides involving innocent, defenseless victims -one group condemned on a racial basis, the other 

discriminated against on the grounds of exis­
tence itself. 

Marchal asserted that the abortion ruling should not be so analogized. Why not? Be­cause the U.S. Supreme Court, as the decision­making body permitting such killing, is a branch ofademocratic government. 
On the other hand, Marchal with equal fer­vor deplored and denounced the holocaust. Why? Because the edict implementing the holocaust issued from the totalitarian regime ofAdolf Hitler. 
Does this line of reasoning mean that if a democracy authorizes the extermination of Jews, it would then become moral? Obviously not, though such could be said to be the logi­cal extension ofMarchal's argument. 
Professor Rice draws a fitting and powerful 
analogy between the twin horrors ofabortion 
and the holocaust. Whether he should defend 
the abortion-clinic bombers is perhaps 
arguable -his analogy is not. 

Charles W. McCollester Coordinator, Analytical Studies 
Shaw looking forward to performing at ND 
Dear Editor: 

I want to congratulate the students ofNotre Dame on the great drive you ran for MS. I was thrilled when I learned that you won the MTV concert because it meant that I could bring my band home. As you may know, I have a farm in Niles, so Saturday night will be very special for me -a real homecoming. 
It was great having so many of you from 
Garry Trudeau 

'j 
Notre Dame at the farm for the press con­, ference, especially Vince -and Aline who made 
1 this MS campaign such a big success. Kevin, 
1 your Bruce Springsteen Rock-Alike is pretty 
1 amazing. My band really likes his look. Our sax player, Richie, keptgoing "BRuuuce" so I have to think he's got a good shot at winning the MTV internship. Saturday's concen is the last show of the tour and we have just started recording my second album outside of Styx. I am playing with a bunch of exciting musicians now ­Richie Cannata, who played sax for Billy Joel, Steve Holley who played drums for Elton John and Paul McCartney, Mike Blair on keyboards and bassist Brian Stanley, formerly with Bryan Adams. I brought these people toget:her to help make my music my own after many years 
,
ofbeing part ofa big group. 
,
Launching my own band has been a chal­
,
lenge, just as launching the "millions" 
,
program was for you. You took a program that you believed in and made it into a big event, l one that college students all over the country 1 can follow. All of you at Notre Dame have 1 done so much for MS, and I am just glad to be 1 able to give you something. This business has 1 been real good to me, and it is nice to be able 1 to give somethingback. It is going to be alot of 1 fun for us, especially for George Packer, one of 1 our production staff. He went to Notre Dame 
1 and has been all smiles since you won. George 1 told us his brother is graduating, so everyone 1 in the band has promised to make this one 
1 1
really special. 
1
See you on Saturday. 
Tommy Shaw 
Quote of the day 
"Compassion is not weakness, and con­cern for the unfor­tunate is not socialism." 
-HubertHumphrey 

Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5~3 
Ed,tor-m-Chlel _ Sarah E. Ham1lton Busmess Manager. Dav1d Stephen1tcn Managmg EditOr. _Amy Stephan Advert1smg Manager Anne Cull1gan
The Observer IS the independent newpaper published by the students of the 
News Ed1tor. _ Ke1th Harrison Jr. Controller 81ll Hlghducheck
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
News Editor. Dan McCullough Systems Manager Mark B. Johnson
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as 
Sa1nt Mary's Execut1ve Ed1tor Theresa Guanno Production Manager . John A. Men nell 
accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
Sports Editor. . Jeff Blumb of a ma1ority of the Ed1torial Board_ Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column 
Accent Editor . Mary Healy present the v1ews of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the Viewpomt Ed1tor .. Joe Murphy commun1ty. and the free express1on of varying opin1ons on campus, through letters, Photography Editor _.. __ Peter C. Laches 15 encouraged Copy Chief. Frank Lipo Founded November 3,1966 

, 
t 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r r 
r 
r 
r 
r ~ 
, 
r r 
r 
r 
~ 
r 
r 
r 
r 
t-­





Accent 

Tommy Shaw-no stranger to thes 2 parts 
Karen McCloskey 
features staffwriter 
S
o. what does Tommy Shaw think about playing a free concert for the Fighting Irish? 
Shaw held a press conference recently at his 107-acre horse farm in Niles, Michigan. Both Shaw and members of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society spoke to the press about the upcoming concert at the ACC on April 27. 
When asked about his motiva­
tions for performing in the MS/MlV 
concert, Shaw said, "All of us really 
enjoy something like this. It's a 
chance to give something hack." 
"It always makes you fed good," 
he said. "'!be main thing is that the 
good gets done." 
Shaw and his band had just finished a concert tour to promote their first album Girls with Guns, when MS approached his manage­ment company. "We were just getting ready to go hack into the studio," he said. 
"It was well organized and some­
thing we could do very easily," 
Shaw said of the MS concert 
proposition. "It was pretty hard to 
say no." 
"When I found out it was South 
Bend/Notre Dame, it was a great 
surprise," Shaw said. "The band 
loves to come home to the farm. 
We'll be able to drive fifteen 
minutes to the show." 



MTV's Nina Blackwood -blond, bubbly, busy 
Tim Adams 

features staffwriter 

I
f you've ever watched MlV, you know who Nina Blackwood is­the sexy, blond, raspy-voiced VJ who plays all your favorite videos. 
Blackwood is also playing a role in the Multiple Sclerosis drive sponsored by MlV. She will be arriving in South Bend Saturday to help host the Tommy Shaw concert and Rock Alike contest that night. She may even chip in and help judge the contest, which will feature Notre Dame's own Kevin Herbert impersonating Bruce Springsteen. 
In an interview last night, Blackwood said she was hired by MlV 
as a result ofan ad in Billboard magazine; after filling out a resume 
and being interviewed a few times, she got the coveted job as one 
of the five VJs, or Video Jocks. Previously, she had acted a bit and 
played various instruments in some band'>, but it was her 
involvement with other video music projects that sparked her 
interest in applying for the position at MlV. To this day, she has not 
forsaken her previous stint on television. Recently, she performed a 
cameo role on the 1V show "It's Your Move." 

Of the various musicians that she deals with in her guest interviews, Blackwood said, "Oh, the guests are always cordial; it's the comments from the crew that I have trouble with." The current Rock Alike contest has provided her with unique experiences, she said; it has definitely been fun for her. 
Blackwood said she finds many of the people she interviews on MlV interesting. "A lot of them are appealing. Recently, I guess that Kenny Loggins stood out; he was a very nice man," she rasped. Integrity, she added, is what makes an artist accomplished, regardless ofcommerciality. She said she couldn't pick one artist over another in terms ofintegrity, but that Tina Turner and Cyndi I.auper stand out because they help other artists and are truly nice people. 
Blackwood expressed confidence in the future of video, pointing out that the medium has influenced both television shows (especially ones like "Miami Vice") and commercials. A whole lot ofpeople are involved in video, and MlV changes "constantly," she said. Apparently, Blackwood is also confident about her future at MlV. "I'm very happy here," she said. 
Concerning her role in MlV's sponsorship of the MS drive, she said she met with Tommy Shaw, and with rwo Rock Alike winners (including Kevin Herbert) on the set of MlV, and ofcourse, she will be here for the benefit concert itself. She believes Shaw was a good choice, because "he's a very good musician. Plus, he's got a lot ofintegrity. And he was in a very, very successful group (Styx)." 
Blackwood was not involved in the technical details of the drive, 
hut she thinks it was a big success. She said the internship which 
the Rock Alike winner receives will entail working on one of the 
crews at MlV. "It should be really exciting for the winner," she 
said. 

As for her future, she hopes to keep VJ-ing at MlV, and do a little 
acting on top of that. She has no other intentions for the near 
future. 

As his hand approaches its-first year anniversary, Shaw is preparing to cut his second solo album. His first album represented Shaw's commercially successful step away from the rock group Styx. 
"!be title track of the album was also a popular video on MTV. Asked the meaning behind "Girls with Guns," Shaw said that it is about "women who work." lbe song expresses Shaw's "admiration of women who go out in the workplace," and contend with "the pressure of not only doing a good enough job" but also of maintaining appearances. 
He explained, "I respect females who acheive given the obstacles and these limits." 
Shaw, a guitarist and vocalist, will be joined at the Notre Dame con­cert and on his next album by former Billy Joel saxophonist and keyboardist, Richie Cannata; former Bryan Adams bass player, Bryan Stanley; keyboard player Mike Blair; and drummer Steve Holly. 
lbe band plans to unveil at least three previously unreleased songs at the Notre Dame concert. Shaw has contacted friends in New York and Hollywood to donate extra equipment and services to the production so that the concert will 
be the band's "biggest production so far". 
MTV provided Shaw and his crew a budget which, according to the performer, "has all gone into the production and travel." The dona­tions from Shaw's associates equaled 2S percent of the produc­tion costs, so that the concert will be "worth 12 S per cent of the production costs," he said. 
The concert at Notre Dame will be filmed by producer Glenn Good­wyn who directed "lbe Making of Michael Jackson's Thriller." Good­wyn has been involved in the production ofvideos by Van Halen, Madonna, The Police, and RolJing Stones. The Shaw concert video will be aired on MlV during the Memorial Day weekend. 
But what ofShaw's future with Styx? The group's gold and platinum albums line the walls of Shaw's modest ranch in Niles. 
"There has been no official breakup," said Shaw. "We owe the record company an album. But we have no official plans." 
Shaw does plan to continue to live in Chicago, near his girlfriend, an anchorwoman on a local televi­sion station. When he Is not working on his solo career, Shaw will reside in his self-decorated Niles ranch house with the horses, the cats, and the neighbors. 


Tommy Shaw 
.
) ' 
1' 
. ·'"' 
Nina Blackwood 

--~-----~-~ ----~-----------------~-----------. 
Thursday, April25, 1985-page 6-7 
Isis exhibit provides unique portrayals of sound Don't give credit 
explained the content: "When 



where it isn't due 
you're a young child and have to get 
out ofbed in the night, you might walk downstairs and see the light coming through the window. You 

see things moving." Tracy used 
wallpaper patterns in black and 


Marc Ramirez 

W
hat does sound look like? An exhibit running this week in the Art Building may give an answer. "The Sound-ness ofthe Isis Gallery," which opened Monday night, exhibits student works that illustrate sound in various ways. 
Junior Charles Kromkowski, the organizer of the show, explained the concept. "When we see a picture or something like a baseball hitting a piece ofglass, we think of sound." he said. 
The exhibit combines the media ofpoetry, painting, photography and sculpture in striking images. 
Kromkowski said most of the poems are not to be read out loud; rather, they visually remind the viewer offamilar sounds. A piece called "Mind Jazz Improvization, or Raising of... Lively 4/4" depicts a jazz movement with a conductor's counted beats, a bass line, a trum­pet, piano and vocals. The poem also hints at the historical innova­tions of jazz artists like Miles Davis and Dizzy Gillespie. 


Photographer Turi V eccio also used musical images to portray sound visually. The black and white photograph of a guitarist's hand jamming a tune lets the viewer "hear" the strings. Another Veccio photograph, "DeafShout," depict­ing a gargoyle from Dillon Hall's courtyard, portrays screams that have been surpressed. 
This eerie feeling is echoed in Margaret Tracy's painting, "Things That Go Bump in the Night." Tracy then repeated them in color against a black iron railing. Tracy's fluid use ofcolor in "IfWalls Had Ears" creates a pleasant familiarity of sound, portraying the mellow feeling ofan aging wall. 
Some pieces in the exhibit are amusing -the poem, "Jogger's Warm Down: Lungs and Phlegm," depicts the sounds a runner makes. 
Others are striking-the painting "Voices from the Past" portrays a personal statement in graffiti and pastels. 
Veccio's use ofsoft lighting in his photograph ofa Parisian alley creates a soothing, meaningful image. 
The show runs this week until Saturday, on the third floor of the Riley Art Building. 


Photos by Chaitanya Panchal 
Above left, "Things That Go Bump in the Night," by Margaret Tracy. Above, "Cries ofKane and Abel," by John Kromkowski. Below left, Margaret Tracy in front ofher painting, "Voices from the Past." Below, Turi Veccio and his photograph, "Deaf Shout." 

Strange days indeed 
'vJhen you're here for four long years, you learn to W appreciate some things more than others, and then there are 
those things which elude classification and are simply admirable on 
their own. 
For example, everyone knows that tofu vegetables and chicken patties from the dining hall just don't compare with an Oakburger with cheese and grilled onions from the Oak Room, and I don't care how many Ivy Awards food services have won. And seeing a movie in the Annenberg Auditorium is far superior to seeing one in the Engineering Auditorium, unless the movie is "The Perils of Gwendolyn in the Land ofthe Yik-Yak," or the movie I caught the end ofon Thursday night about a giant sea turtle who eats boats. 
But I digress. 
What we're getting at here is that ifthere's one thing which I 
have grown to worship in my fading college career, it's the Notre 
Dame Credit Union. 
Yeah, that's right, the Credit Union. Perhaps you've seen it 
lurking innocently behind the power plant, waiting like a Venus 
flytrap for money. And maybe, ifyou're like me, you have an 
account there, and ifyou do I'm sure that you'll back me up on this 
one: we at Notre Dame are quite fortunate to have such an 
institution. 
Therefore, by the audacity vested in me, I hereby propose that 
we ofthe University ofNotre Dame show our appreciation for our 
fine credit union by throwing a party in its honor. 
Now I'm not talking about your happy-hour-type gathering-I'm 
talking about a large-scale, multi-keg, free-wheeling, let's-invite-the­
part-time-tellers bash. No joke. I'm serious. 
So listen up, Credit Union employees: 
I want all of you associated with the Credit Union (but especially those on the administrative level, because you're the ones with the 
big bankrolls and therefore numero unos in my book) to have the 

best time you've ever had in your entire lives, and on that you can 
hold me accountable. 
Ofcourw :1 few rt>striction~ will applY 
First • ,, all · "•· narrv will take place during office hours on 
Wedne~<.a. .~Ia\ I which I realize is probably inconvenient for 
most of\ 011. '"·' .ilal s too bad because that's the only time I could 
reserve time in the Pangborn party room. 
The party will begin promptly at 9 a.m. and will continue throughout the day until 5 p.m. Beer will be served (on draft, of course), but employees will have to wait in line to receive it. To begin the bash there will be six waiting lines for beer, but by lunch hour the number oflines will dwindle to approximately two, because the people working the party need to eat, by golly. and if lunch happens to fall during the peak hour for attendance, well, that's not our fault. 
Mixed drinks also will be served, and your requests for these drinks must be written out on slips ofpaper and then presented to a designated Person in Charge ofMixed Drinks, who will then turn over the request to a well-trained staff ofdrink mixers. Three ID's will be required. 
Once orders are received for these drinks -and our experienced team of three can conjure up anything from a Long Island Iced Tea to our special IRS Daiquiri -you will receive your drinks within a pretty reasonable amount oftime, although there will be a ten-day waiting period while your personal request is thoroughly checked out and registered into our advanced bartending system. 
I personally regret any inconvenience which may result from our drink policy. 
Also, there will be a slight fee charged to partygoers: a minimum of $5 will be required for entrance to the bash (although you may choose to contribute more). After that you may do as you wish. Go wild. Have fun. Drink all you want, and don't worry about being too drunk to drive because I expect you all to walk to the party. 
But ofcourse, ifyou intend to spend any amount of time at this party, then a few other charges will have to be assessed as well ­hey, we're just poor college students with a few dollars in our savings accounts, or at least most ofus are, but that's another story. In addition to the initial S5 fee, you pay nothing-nothing, that is, until you leave. That's the beauty ofit all. 
Interest will be compounded hourly -no, quarter-hourly, at the modest rate of 2 5 percent. It's a simple figure, which makes it easy both for our workers and for me. 
ATTENTION: Effective at 9:02a.m. on Wednesday, the following rule goes into effect: those partygoers choosing to leave with less than S500 charged to them will be assessed an additional SIO-no, $20-heck, why not 550-wait, make that an arbitrary amount to be d.ecided on later, depending on any restrictions which may arise by then. You never know. I know that this is short notice, but that's the way it is in the fun world offinance, and ifyou're the type who reads this column for maybe a paragraph or two and then throws it away, or the type who doesn't even read it at all, then you'll just have to find out about the fee the hard way. 
Invitations will be mailed out by May 24. 
-----~ ----­



Sports Briefs 
Honors Program racquetball tournament participants must report results ofall first· and second-round singles and doubles games to jim Hogan by tonight. Sophomores in tomor­row's finals may pick up schedules today in the Honors Program office on the third floor of O'Shaughnessy. Freshmen will receive schedules today in history class. -The Observer 
The Irish Guard will hold an organizational meeting today at 4 p.m. on Green Field. Anyone who is interested in trying out should attend. For more information, call Chris at 283·1783. · 
1be Observer 

An Tostal is here,in case you didn't notice. For details on the many events beginning today, check the An Tostal booklet or tomorrow's Observer. -1be Observer 
The ND/SMC Gymnastics Club banquet has 
been rescheduled for tomon-ow at 6 p.m. All past and current mem­bers are invited. For location, call Tim Sennet at 283-3308. · The Observer 

"HankAaron" 
1) Which player broke his leg in 1954, enabling Hank to play every day? 
2) Against which pitcher did Hank hit his first major league home run? 
3) Against which pitcher did Hank hit his 714th home run? 
4) Against which pitcher did Hank hit his 71 5th home run? 
5) Which pitcher served up the most home run balls to Hank? 
by K.C. Culum 

Answers will appear in tomorrow's paper 
Thursday, April 25, 1985-page 8 
It's down to just 8 
Bookstore Tournam~nt 
Yesterday's Rcsult!i 
SIIth Round 

Bookstore IJ Rousseau's Noble Savagr!rl over Dingkbcrrin & a Kresgi• by 13 Revenge-of the Fun Bunch over Rhythm Method by 10 
Boobtorc 10 

Red Barons over 4 Fag.o. & a Zahmbk by 7 
Jimmy G. &: the Spots over Tequila White Ugtuning by 2 Lyollllll Ed Smicrciak A: 4 Other Guys BcUC'r Than. . over Tofu Vegetables I by 8 WBBS Goes Oft" lhc Air over Showtime by 9 LyoruU Wccthy's Warriors over hl Soun:c Bank Travdling All Stan... by6 DangUng Manhood over Let's Go Crazy by ~ 
Womt:o's Bookstore 

Boolultorc9 Going All the Way over Negligence by 4 Bookatorc 10 Ooc5 h On Their Own overS Women Who Wancw Go All tho Way by 2 
LyoiUill 

So You ThJnk That We Can Play B·ball? over Pneumothorax Ill by 13 Lyon.o 12 Nolo Contcndrc over Nucleus Breakers by 5 
The Ohsert•er Notr" Damt· olfic.,, I<Katnl on tht· third Ooor of l.aFortunl' Stutknt Ct'ntl'r. an·t·pts dassilkd ad\'ntising from lJ a.m. until -t p.m.. .\lunda\ through frida\ The Ohsert•er Saint Man ·,_olfi<T. hll'att·d on tht· third tloor of Haggar Colll'l(" Ct•ntt·r. a<'l'l'pts l'lassitkds from 1..!:.~0 p 111 until.~ p.m.. 'lon· da\' though friday lkadlinl' for m·xt-day da"ifil'ds is .~ p.m. All dassifkds must h" prt.'paid. t·ithn in pc:rson or h\ mail.< .hargt· is I 0 c"nts lll'r fin· t·harac


Classifieds 
tl'rs a day. 
LOST. NAVY BLUE MEN'S SWIMMING Need studious, male roommate for next YOU MAY NOT FEEL LIKE DOING IT, Dear Pat: I hope your "disease" is always FOREIGNER FANS WINDBREAKER LEFT ON COAT RACK year at Hickory Village Apls. Call Mark at BUT YOU'LL BE GLAD YOU DID!! contagious. Love, your favorite weasel. BRING IN YOUR CONCERT TICKETNOTICES IN SOUTH DINING HALL ON 4/18. IF 272-6296 AN TOSTAL'S HANGOVER 5K STUB FOR A DISCOUNT ON FOUND PLEASE CALL ROLAND AT SATURDAY, APRIL 27 Agent Provocateur
ARTISTS 2165. NEED RIDE TO P.U. THIS WEEK END. STARTS AT 9;30 ROCK DULAC
PAYING JOB!

TYPING CAU CHRIS 234-ttll7 
NANCY 284-4329 SHOW UP TO REGISTER $1 
.1 Farley Hall desires pen and ink. Call To the three g"ls who gave me a nde OUTSIDE STEPAN CENTER Amy 4068 for details. KISSERERS! Check In: Friday. 4/26WOADPROCESSING • 277..o45. 
home on Friday mghl(l was wa/krng on RIDE NEEDED TO THE PITISBURGH 6:30pm. LaFortune KISSERERSr Check Juniper). Than~ atoll> But. I might need AREA ON MAY 2 or 3. CALL JIM AT An Tostal We Can Make You Laugh in: Fnday, 4/26 6:30pm. LaFortune BE
METAL MEN UNITE! "WICKED SH·T" at Word Processrng and Typtng Resumes. 
your help agarnro Could you please check 1930. Comedy Show Saturday, April 27 THERE!!!/
the Nazz,Fri.4/26,10:30PM Playing yourLetters, Papers, Documents Call 234­
your car and see if I left my green 1.0. time:6:{)0p.m. Washington HaH $2.00 per HEAVY METAL favorites. ROCK ON! 
2380 holder in it? It has my I.D.. credit card. and ONE·BDRM. SUMMER SUBLET ticket NEWG NEWG VOTE some other imponantstuff. Thanks again. NEEDED. CAU 313·764-8979 AFTER 6 RETAIL FURNITURE SALES Part time, Is needs NEWG 
PRO. TYPE Over 14 yrw. experience My number is 3486. P.M. OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOA, ugly your UMOC 
flexible hours. lmmed. openings, call
typing student paperw. reeumes. and dis­CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., 
Chris PedeviHa 259-0007 10.8PM The VOTEsertations 2n-5633. 
$10 if you find my brown pres glasses. ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. Furniture Gallery. Misha. Lost Th4·18 atslad. auction. In sofl beige 
TYPING· CALL ANDREA· 283-31180 

case. HELP! Mo-4515. HEY, MUSIC LOVERS! GURDAK says, "NEWG is the ugliest
FOR SALE 
HURRAY FOR OUR SIDE I I've got sort ot a problem here. The thing I've ever seen, and I look at myself rn EXPERT TYPING SEfiVICE. CALL 
NO MORE TEENAGERS MRS. COKER, 233-7oot. HAPPY BIRTHDAY, PHIL 
LOST: If you mrstakenty (or intentionally) Minutemen are coming to Chicago on the mirror every day!!!ll!!!" VOTE NEWG 
picked up my Managerral Accounting May 3, and I already have lix. Problem rs, J UMOC 
Be smart! Sell your class books before the LOVE, MOM AND DAD
book from South at Tuesday lunch. need a ride. Can you help? Grandma says 
Be Smart!! Sell your texts and paperbacks ruah. Mon.-Fri between 12 and 4. Save$
PLEASE RETURN be/ore my brg brot­there's help for people like me, so call Reg 
for$$ before the rush !I M-F,B!T 12·4 pm. on paperbacks. Fri: 3-6; 50/ off used; 20/
her Bubba comes to call on you. Thanks! at2651 if you think she's right. NEWG transferred from Vandet'bill so he 
We also carry a wode assortment ot Cliff off new. PANDORA'S BOOKS, 937 So
Susanx4286 FFFFFFFLLLLLAAAGG FOOTBALL!!! could be ugly for you. He's a professronal 
and ·' Monarch Notes Pandora& Bend Ave. 233-2342 
3;30 STEPAN FIELD ugly manlll Vole NEWG UMOCII! 
HARTZELL THE HORRIBLE !! Yoo-gee­ll<>oQ,937 So.Bend Ave.. I block from 
LOST:GOLD BRACELET WITH GOLD COME WATCH FARLEY'S FINEST el-wye He ain't got no alibi He's UGLY!
Corby's. 6-UNIT APARTMENT FOR SALE, NO­
TEDDY BEAR CHARM.SENTIMENTAL BATILE IT OUT AGAINST SMC AU· TOM HARTZELL FOR UMOC! 
MEMORIAL AREA, EXCELLENT CON­
VALUE. PLEASE CALL 232-4552 OR STARS! FRIDAY APRIL 26 IT'S TIME FOR A CHANGE. 2n-67421F FOUND Votes for U.M.O.C. are being collected in Lei's gel a real ugly man by votrng 
DITION 233-9728 232-4528 TRANSFER ORIENTATION 1985 MAN· 
the dining halls during dinner through Sat. NEWG FOR UMOC!III 
DITORY MEETING FOR ALL THOSE IN­82 Honda Civic, Air. Casa Stereo, Great FOREIII The Ugliest Man On Campus will beTERESTED IN BEING ON THE MPG. 2n-5725 ITS TIME FOR FRISBEE GOLF revealed on Saturday at 12:00 pm at theCOMMITIEE: 7:00 NEW ORLEANS 
LOST GOLD CHAIN.CRUCIFIXAND 4;30 HOLY CROSS HALL( NO) Irish Wake! AHHHHHHHHHHHHHII ROOM LAFORTUNE. TUESDAY APRIL FOR SALE: couch and rug, a decorators
CIRCULAR JESUS MEDAL INSCRIBED. FRIDAY APRIL 26 IT'S UGLY! 
30. PRESENT MEMBERS MUST AT­delight' Must see 10 appreciate, call Tom 
CALL 277-6742 OR 232-45521F FOUND. BRING YOUR OWN FRISBEE(OR ANY Staying in the Bend for the summer: need IT'S A POSTUREPEDIC EXPERIMENT' 
TEND. or Mike al1000. 
REASONABLE FACSIMILE) small place for the summer. Call Tom IT COULD BE UMOC WITH YOUR X1479. VOTE'!! 
MOVING SALE O.k & Chair, Gold Cer·
Losl:blue NO bookbag.Physrcs and Mec· YOCIUS is Atrocious. /T'SNEWG!/1 
pet Remnant, Larga TV Stand, on
WISCONSIN CLUB MEMBERS If anyone hanrcs book. 4 notebooks and 4 folders. 
IRISH GARDENS Palntlnga w/Frarnae, Dlahaa. Can 239­
is Interested in becoming an offiC8f' for and calculator. If found please calli 804 HELP II GET YOUR FLOWERS EARLY! 
54761lttya, 234-5624 Evanlnga 6-10
next year, please contact Brian Thelen at NEED 1 OR 2 TIX, TOGETHER OR NEWG had otters ol ugly man from UNI·
WE ARE CLOSING EARLY ON ANTOS­
2097 before mrdnighl Sunday, Apr 28. AI $20 REWARD FOR THE RECOVERY SEPARATE. VERSITIES across the nation, but
TAL FRIDAY, APRIL 26 thralime. the new offrcers woll be elected. OF A GYM BAG FILLED WITH PLEASE CALL MARYA AT 1276 OR thought the Luck of the lrlah could only 
For Sale: 1973 Ford pick-up. N.R. 6­WE WILL BE OPEN FROM 12:30 · 3;00
cylinder Call284-4221 
VIDEOTAPES. PLEASE CALL DAN AT 1298; KEEP TRYING!! REOPENING MONDAY. APRIL 29, enhance his prolessronal UGLINESS!! RASTA WEEK BEGINS 1733, DROP OFF AT 243 DILLON, OR 12:30-5:30 Let's show him we care. 
FOR SALE: 10.Speed bicycle. Schwinn
Friday Nrle at AT THE O'SHAG LOFT. IRISH GARDENS IRISH GARDENS. VOTE NEWG UMOC LEE'S 11-11-0 WELCOME BACK TO SAINT MARY'S,
Varsity. Call Steve 3830. 
Proceeda go to Ethropia LOST. ONE EDDIE BAUER JAC-SAC. MARIA MC GRORRY GET READY FOR BURGUNDY COLOR. LOST ON 4/24 AT A WILD TIME IT'LL BE A REAL GOOF, WANT A JOB AT IRISH GARDENS? IF RASTA
FOR SALE: NYLON JOGGING SWEAT· PANTS AND TOPS, IN BLUE AND RED. 
EITHER WASHINGTON HALL OR 116 BUT DON'T GET ALARMED WE'LL Saturday, May 4th, 8 p.m. to 2 a.m. 
YOU ARE ELIGIBLE FOR CALL MIKE J232-0904 AFTER 6:00PM. 
O'SHAG. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL RETURN YOU TO NEW JERSEY IN Stepan Center 
FINANCIAL.~: J AND ALWAYS READY $20 EA. OR $35 SET. 
CLIFFORD AT 1436. THANK YOUr ONE PIECE AN TOSTAL WOULDN'T BE Featuring the grea! reggae band Dttllol 
FOR A GOOD TIME. THEN STOP AT
LOST/FOUND 


THE SAME WITHOUT YOU HOPE YOU Plus Par 3 and Lllka Eflacta
IRIS!-'

FOR SALE 1976 CHEVY WAGON BEST 
LOST. AN ARMY STYLE JACKET, OF BROUGHT YOUR WALKING SHOES! GARDENS IN THE BASEMENT OF Rally Agalnat StarvationI VERY SENTIMENTAL VALUE. IF BUT THAT'S O.K. LOVE VA, El
OFFER CALL KIM AT 4205 
LAFORTUNE LOST: General Blo text was removed 
FOUND. PLEASE PLEASE. PLEASE AND PICK UP AN APPLICATION TO 
from the far nghl Side of mam carrels on CALL CATH AT 284-4173. THANKS r-------------. HELP!! I AM IN DIRE NEED OF ONE WORK NEXT YE'AR JEFF HERMAN-Hope you remember the 10th floor of the library Wed. evenrng. MORE GRADUATION TICKET!!! rnMtlng me thlo lima. Don't you ever
IRISH GARDENS IRISH GARDENS The return of this book 11 extremety impor­r-------,...... TICKETS PARENTS WILL KILL ME IF I DON'T wonder who I am? love. Your Secret ·
I 

tant 118 I have a test next week r Call 3615 COME THROUGH WITH THIS DEAL!! Admirer.
Howard Hall presents ASAP if found' PLEASE HELP OUT A POOR FELLOW 
The Annual 
SENIOR. AND CALL JEFF AT 3859. 

L-.__F_O_R_R_E_N_T_ ___JI HELP!! NEED.. , ciFi .. 2.. afiAo...rix: 
Shorta and Shadn Lost: Blue tean tackel at a off-campus Craighead-·Don'l worry MCATS are eesy
Party party on 3/29. Please call Jean at 284-Royal Order of The Ouacll 1: "AU girls at and almost history' RR 
TOGETHER OR SEPARATE. PLEASE American Legion Post303CALL MARYA AT 1276 OR 1296; KEEP 
5024. AD NEED A CHEAP PLACE TO LIVE NO are mutant worthless piles ol -··" ....... .,.....................
2410 Mishawaka Avenue THIS SUMMER? WE'RE LOOKING FOR Thanks for proving me wrong. Saturday, Bpm Joe Putz--The Gerry Faust of GKsTRYING!! 
FOUND: One women's hrgh school class TWO ROOMMATES TO SHARE EX· 
Bus serv1ce from main circle rrng woth rnrtrals MCH rnarde. Found rn PENSES AT N.D. APTS. CALL SMC GRADUATION TICKETS NEEDED! Five suMME·R·iiousiNo.NlieliE"oi;;.~·i1~~ KSA I WON'T MISS YOUR BODY; I'LL of them. For real money. Call 288-0330. 
McCandless Hall SMC. Call Julie 284· 4309 OR 5496 who like South Bendso much that they've MISS YOU LOVE PO
We Can Make You laugh Show Satur·
Please. day, 6:00pm Washington Hall 
5458 decided they're staying are looking tor an 
FOR RENT 5(16-8/?,HOME OF OWNER inexpensive hou:te or apartment for this AROUND THE WORLD IN A DAY LOST:BLUE NIKE NYLON RUNNING LEAVING 4 SUMMER2BDRMS FULLY summer. If you have one or if )'Ou've even JOHN TYLER and MIKE McCAUGHEY at The New Album by 
DESPERATELY NEED GRAD TICKETS 
PLEASE CALL JJ 1703
PANTS AT LYONS B·BALL COURTS ON EOPT ie.mrcrowave IN FACULTY heard ol•uch an animal. please call Dan the NAZZ Friday, April26 9 pm PRINCE AND THE REVOLUT10N 
SUN. APRIL 14,1985. CALL JOHN 1134. NEIBHD.802 NAPOLEON AVE EASILY at1625. Is now avarlable for only $7.75' WALKING DIST. PERFECT 4 SUMMER BB..ILOVE YOU: " ... LOVE THAT WEU ONLY AT ROCK Du LAC 
HELP! NEED 2 GRAD TIXI$ Call Nancy
STAFF NON­TDKSA90's WHICH THOU MUST LEAVE ERE Firstlloor LaFortune 
at234-7319

LOST STUDENTS.RESPONSIBLE TENANTS-Only 51or $10 LONG." ONE NO DEEP BLUE JACKET IN 234·2275 pat ALL THIS WEEK NORTH DINING HALL. PLEASE ONLY AT ROCK DULAC, HEY JOEY AND TOMMY' WE'LL BE THANK YOU ST. JUDE FOR BLESS·
BIG BUCKS FOR GRADUATION TICK· ETS II CALL MARK AT 232-5645 
FLANNER. SHOWING INGS RECEIVED ASKED. LIMIT10 THE POPCORN. -HARVEY PS MAYBE 
RETURN TO 715 NO ?'S FIRST FLOOR LA FORTUNE MOVIES FRIDAY. BRING 
Need 3 Grad nx Will pay $ 1346 
WE'Ll WATCH DISNEY'S "THE PUTZ" THANK YOU ST. JUDE Found: April 5, calrco lemale cal at SMC. WANTED Call2n·2367to ciBim HELP! DESPERATELY NEED GRAD o~~-~--Fi~;;;·;;;~;;g;;d·:i~~i-;;;·;;;Aoo·oo DESPERATELY seeking female who Squlah Man 
TICKETS!!! CALL MATI 3024 OR 
MADDOG MADDOG MADDOG The rook me to Wendy'slo eat! meet at huddle We would Hke to tsks this opportumty to 
JAMINA 683-7334 CALL CALL CALL 
I NEED GRAD. T1XI Hideous Saga Goes On . 11 :00 tonite. wi5h Sqeeze (The Money ManaNas Bar· SKI GLASSES LOST .... in lawn area bel· Plell8e calllraa at 3544. ................................... .......................~ .. ney Bad a/iss Mick D) a happy 2181 
NEED 1 GRAD TICKET. CALL 1647 
wtNtn LEMANS HALL and SMC OFF CAMPUS STUDENTS can pick Up BAHAMAS BAHAMAS BAHAMAS Due \0 birlhday' You may be aflaming roadie but PARKING LOT. Please return ·cause An T ostal Booklets all this week between the OVERWHELMING response tb lh~ thai's OK. We didn't mind that you blew these glasses _,e not my proparty I!!! HELP!! NEED 1 OR 2 GRAD TIX. 3 and 5 p.m. in the An Tostal Office, Senior Trip, we have extended the us off tor Spring Break but at least you The MIRRORED SKI GLASSES brand TOGETHER OR SEPARATE. PLEASE located within the student offices on the DEPOSIT ($150) deadline so thatlhe rest waved to u• in Kokomo and didn't keep name resembles CELAIS -but I'm not CAU MARYA AT 1276 OR 1296; KEEP PERSONALS second floor of LaFortune. of the CLASS OF 86 can be a part of this u• awake with your snoring. We do like posobve .... These SKI GLASSES can be TRYING!! trip.Collections will be taken until your artwork, e•pecial/y your facial -lyrdenhfied 118 BLUE woth a lrllle RED HUNGRY? FREE DELIVERY CAU THE FRI.4/26 6-8pm in LaFonune and Hag­drawmgs. and WHITE lrrm, and twoeted wore replac­Rrde or Rrders Needed to Indianapolis YELLOW SUB 272-4453 MO. TH 8-11pm gar(SMC). So Kevy, when you are flirting with the 
•ng the smaU screws next to each eye!!! 4/26 C8113880 GET DIRTY (OR WATCH SOMEONE FR-SA8pm-1am elite and buying people C8111 lor therr PLEASE CALL 283-3437 or RETURN ELSE GET DIRTYI!!I)I!! HEY MATI "YOU..QOT·IT' YUSKAITIS: birthdays think of the Badlands and Jan. THE GLASSES to the LEMANS HALL Part trme jobl Need help laying sod, AN TOSTAL MUD VOLLEYBAU Going to Europe or New Zealand this HAPPY BIRTHDAYI!I I UNDERSTAND 4, 7 and Aug. 24. DESK (or) Notre Dame LOST and $4.00/h cat12n-166o FINALS summer and not taking your car? I need to THE TAMPA ATIRACTIONS PLAN ON Thanks lor being a great roomate and FOUND in lhe Admmtslral•on Bu•lding FRIDAY APRIL 26 have wheels for my job this summer. so MAKING THIS A VERY SPECIAL DAY. friend. Good luck always. Please respond before thrs weekend !!!! HELP' I NEED GRAD TIX' CALL PETE 2;30 MUD PITS I'm willing to rent yours and take care ot it YOU'RE PAST YOUR SEXUAL PRIME Happy Birthday Thank you. 1858 until August. Call Tom x1479. YOU KNOW! 
l 
The Observer Thursday, April25, 1985-page 9 

Ballage moves to strong safety spot 
MID -EASTERN VEGETARIAN 

to strengthen Irish secondary in '85 
• Verttarian & Meat Di8hra FOODS SHAJVERMA-MUGEDERA-BABA GHENOUJ HOMMUS -FELAFEL 


TEBBOULI SAI.AD SOUTH BEND • LEBAI'fESE STYLE 
• Pita Stuffed Sandwichea GYROS 
• Delithlful Pa1triea • Turlli8h Co/Ire Tuea-Sat 6:30PM-9:30PM 288-5639 
COMPLETE CATERING FOR PARTIES & BANQUETS 838 PortG~< Ave 
Don't be a Hoser! • see ''Strange Bre\V" 
at the KnightS' of Columbus 
Fri. & Sat. at 7:00,9:15,& 11:30 
Admission $1.00 


sale ttems 
N.D.-S.M.C. 
JEWELERS 
Students 
SINCE 1917

FOX'S 
DIRECT DIAMOND IMPORTERS 
University and Concord & Pierre Moran Malls -Elkhart 

strong safety Joe Johnson, the Irish are endow~d with great depth as they have developed a solid corps of reserves who have had a good deal ofgame experience. 
Spring Football 
~·ss 
"With the exception of Joe Johnson, we have every one of our defensive backs returning," says Irish defensive coordinator Andy Christoff. "They're all a year older and a year stronger and a year smarter. We're looking forward to having a good year next year." 
According to Christoff, the Irish are going to rely upon senior-to-be Pat Ballage to fill the shoes of Johnson at strong safety. Ballage was the starter at the right cornerback spot last year as he split time with classmate Mike Haywood who will start at that spot in the fall. 
After moving to the strong safety 
spot at the beginning ofspring drills, 
Ballage has adjusted well to the posi­
tion and has earned the starting as­
signment. 
"We moved Pat Ballage to strong 
safery and he's doing an excellent 
job," says Christoff. "We're really happy with the way Pat has picked up the strong safety position." 
Working at strong safety with Ballage is freshman Brandy Wells who was moved there from a backup role at the free safety position. Sop­homore Chris Kvochak, who joined the squad this spring as a walk-on, is 
also doing well and is expected to likewise serve as a backup in the fall. 
•
•
At the free safety spot, sophomore 
Steve Lawrence is returning as a starter after coming off of a strong ~ 
year of experience. In this past season, Lawrence split time with classmate Hiawatha Francisco, who will once again be filling in where needed in the secondary. Francisco was moved to a backup role at free safety from tailback halfway through the spring season last year. 
"Francisco is working at free safety and is also helping us in the corner position," explains Christoff. 
At the corners, the Irish will be looking forward to the return ofsop­homore Troy Wilson on the left side and Haywood on the right side. Besides Francisco, the Irish will employ Marv Spence in a backup role following a good past season. 
"Marv Spence has had an excel­
lent spring and he's another backup 
corner," says Christoff. 
Overall, Christoff is looking for­ward to a strong defensive secon­dary for the upcoming campaign 
mer working on the development a 
strong cast of backs for the last two 
years. 
"We feel that we're in a position where we have good people for every position," comments the defensive strategist. "We have some continuity and the opportunity to build some strength in those posi­tions." 
Correction 
Because of a reporting error in yesterday's edition ofThe Observer, there were two mistakes in Chuck Freeby's Irish Items trivia column. Joe Kleine is the last Notre Dame basketball player to become a mem­ber of the U.S. Olympic basketball team, and Kevin Lovejoy holds the 
career scoring record in Irish soccer history . 
Tennis 
continuedfrompage 12 
"I expect the team to give me its best on any given day and if it doesn't, I'm dissatisfied," said Petro . 
The Irish improved their season record to 1 7-4 Tuesday afternoon after they defeated Michigan State University, 6-3, giving Notre Dame its fllth victory over a Big Ten op­ponent this year. While the Irish lost their first sets at number one, three, four and six singles, they overcame their initial deficit to edge the Spar­tans, 4-1, as they moved into the doubles competition. 
"It looked like they were going to walk out with four or five wins in the singles," recalled Petro. "Fighting back in the singles was the turning point and we knew we were in con­trol going into the doubles. Even Michigan State's coach commented on our fight back." 

By MICHAELJ. CHMIEL 
Sports Writer 

In many respects, the defensive backfield is becoming a more in­tegral part of a football team today, as more and more offenses are relying on a strong passing attack to move the ball downfield and punch it into the end-zone. 
The fact that more teams are also relying on trick plays and option at­tacks also makes the four-member group of defensive backs more im­portant. 
This spring, the Irish are fortunate 
to have three offour starters back in 
their secondary. While Notre Dame 
did lose an all-America player in 

THE EARLY.~BIRD... --~/  
Classes starting May 11,1985  
LSAT C•~! Doy• Eveninc• & Wttkends 1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-4135  

•··········t··~····t.···········
fin 1 ostal 85 •
• • 

•• •• Trivia Bowl! 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 

Come put all that useless
•
•

• information to work. 
•
•
•
•

• Friday, April 26th
•
•

• South Quad, Stage •• 
• no re~istration--tust show Uf. 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
...
•
•
•
•
•
• 
The Observer 

Belles 
continued/rom page 12 
run in the bottom ot the fourth as the 
quickness of Pantelleria on the 
basepaths allowed her to reach third 
from first on a sacrifice bunt by 
senior Tracey Bowman. Theiss then 
grounded out to the second 
baseman allowing Pantelleria to 
score. 
Manchester jumped out to a quick 2-I lead after one inning of play in game two, but that lead was quickly 
Volleyball 
continued/rom page 12 
and I S-8. Leading the series at a score of two games to one, the Irish went into the fourth game needing only one more victory to continue on. But George Williams took the wind out of Notre Dame's sails by winning the fourth game, IS-I. That game just killed the Irish because in the fifth and deciding game, George Williams again beat Notre Dame, by the score of IS-3, ending Irish hopes of a trip to the final four. 
SAILING CLUB: With the coming of spring, the Notre Dame Sailing club has already started its spring schedule. Competing at three away regattas, the racing team has done very well, placing fourth out of ten teams at Miami of Ohio, third out of twelve teams at the University of Tofedo. and the club's best race, a second place finish out of eleven teams this pa~t weekend at Ohio State. At the regattas, there are two divisions, A and B. Dan Dressel, a junior, sails in the A-division. 
The club itself has close to ISO members, ranging from beginners to experts. Tim Westhoven teaches the art of sailing to all members, and as soon as they are certified, they then can take out one of their boats. 

Thursday, April 25, 1985-page 10 
IAMERICAN How you live TCANCER~ may save your life. 
~SOCIETY 

erased as the host Belles exploded for a nine-run second inning. With the bases loaded, Theiss, who bats .360 and boasts a .987 fielding percentage, stepped to the plate and delivered a grand slam. 
After two and one-third innings, winning pitcher Suess was relieved · by freshman pitcher Betty Mihalik after a Manchester two-run rally. 
With a 13-6 lead going into the bottom ofthe fifth, McGinnis, who is presently hitting .448, sent a chalk­

''C(JQowetm f,ott aQQ occasions.'' 
Comein and Browse 327 Lincolnway , 23l-3354 
flying bouncer deep to left and rounded the bases for a solo homer. McGinnis finished the game four­for-four, collecting three RBis . 
Senior Katy Boldt led Saint Mary's offensively, batting three-for-four. Mulcahy and Suess also added two singles each. 
Tomorrow the Belles will play host to NCAA Division I Butler Uni­versity of Indianapolis. 
"We'll have to be at our best," predicts assistant coach Sue Becker. The game is scheduled for a 3:30 
p.m. start. 



6502 Grape Road (219) 277-2400 
I ---------------------------­
SAVE ON CONTACT LENSES!
I I $49 SPHERICAL SPHERICAL 
I DAILY WEAR $99 EXTENDED WEAR 
I SOFT LENSES SOFT LENSES I lifer includes trial wearing plan. Examination &care kit not included. I Offer good on initial pair only wL'{!Ilaga Optical p111scription.I Expires 5/11 Village Opttcal 
25% off 
all sunglasses 
-Bausch & lomb -Ray Ban -logo Paris, etc. 
Expires 5/11 
~--------------------------­
1I SAVE ON EYEGLASSES 
!20% 1st complete pair of prescription eyeglasses 


! I oft 

I 

Jfyou're  Thenyou  
getting a  could  
degree•m  qualify for  
Any area and will have at  

least 4 courses in biology . . . . . . . fisheries fxtension 
Any area and have 6 months of experience in carpentry, welding, mechanics, plumbing or electricity ............... : . \bcational'li'aining 
Any area and will have at least 6 courses in biology, chemistry, Science or l'lath physics or math . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Teaching 
Any area and have 2 years of farming experience . . . . . . . . . . . . Agriculture fxtension 
Any area and will have at least S~nisb Literacy 2 years of college-level Spanish . . . fxtension 
If you're getting a degree this spring or summer, then you could qualify for a world or professional opportunities In one or 60 countries overseas with the U.S. Peace Corps. Applkatlons an: now being a«epted. . 
l'k>te: Many programs ask for specific degrees and backgrounds not listed here. Check with a Peace Corps representative for a complete description of openings. opportunities and benefits. 
Apply I"'OW for summer openings! rick up appUcation in your Placement Office, or call 1·800-621·3670 
U.S. Peace Corps 
"1be toughest job you'D ever love" 
OCT! 

t 

~~cJIC3L~-----------------------------------------Th--u-rs_d_ay_,_A_p_rt-·1_2_5,_1_9_8_5
___v_a_ge--11 

Bloom 
MR. .JJNe5.• I HA~ C~ 10 fAY MY f(tsf'~C1'5 10 YOI/1?. 811NANA Jf?.. 6/XJO IN 
CAN I HIS nM€ Of fef?SONill GK/ef 
SU HIM? (Mf{ 1Hf I.IN1/MUY ~Mtse 
&Oil f31.ESS OF 1Hc MNANA 
YOU. 
\ 

CfJMMff? COMPANY 
\

/ 
Zeto 



The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Overcharge 6 Confused 
10 Police group 14 More robust 15 Church section 16 Byway 17 Blood vessel: 
pref. 18 Familygroup 19 Bard's river 20 Act recklessly 23 Homily: abbr. 24-Jima 25 Audience 26 Follower of 
spin or tap 27 Grief 32 Alaskan island 35 One: Ger. 38 Rigg or Ross 39 Act recklessly 42 One's school, 
with 32 D 43 NYcanal 44 Camera feature 45 Ark landing 47 Shipping 
hazard 
All R1ghts Reserved 

49 Modem: pref. 51 Outwit 7 Shopper's 52 Tank need delight 
55 Act recklessly 8 Slipby 61 Declare 9 Virgil hero positively 10 Insult 62 "I met­11 Surfer's need with..." 12 Prolific 63 Maine college writer? town 13 Care for 64 City on the 21 Amidstto Truckee poets 
65 Word in an 22 Wearaway Erie Gardner 26 Really great title 28 Garand for 
66 Poe's bird one 67 Alan or Cheryl 29 Extraordinary 68 Looked over 30 -even keel 69 Tractor man 31 Means' partner 
32 See42A 
4/25/85 

DOWN 33 Lacerate 1 Certain rugs 34 So long in 46 Card holding 55 Norse noble of 2 Pirogue Soho 48 Shoe yore 3 Chill before a 36 Neither's 50 "In the merry 56 Part of the eye 
fever partner month-" 57 Dam 4-Ericson 37 Added buckram 52 Tree group 58 Goad 5 Gain 40 Tehran citizen 53 Ed of TV fame 59 Let up 6 Hermit 41 Spartan slave 54 Rock 60 Dies­

Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
WHY.?..OH, WHY 110 /JIIP 

11fi~S 
llf1ff'CN 10 600P 
COKPOR11710NJ.q 
Kevin Walsh 
·. 

"OK. Here's another little ditty we can all sing. ·-Of course, as always, the only words are 'ribbit, ribbit.'" 
Campus 
•12 
-I p.m. -Lecture in Spanish, "La Escritura Como Re-Escritura: Textos y Pre­Textos," Reinaldo Arenas, Cuban Author living in the US, ETS Theatre, CCE. •3p.m.-Tennis,NDWomenvs.SMC,AtSMC. 

•4 
p.m.-Seminar, "Critique ofSaturation Met­hods for Measuring Triplet Extinction Coeffi­cients," Dr. Gordon Hug, NO, Conference Theatre, Radiation Laboratory. 

•4 
p.m. -College ofEngineering Honors Award, CCE A,pditorium. 

•4:30 
p.m. -Mathematics Colloquium, "What Is A Sporadic Group?" Prof. Ron Solomon, Ohio State University, Room 226 CCMB. 

•4:30p.m.-Lecture, 
"Origin ofDolomite and Its Spatial and Chronological Distribution -A New Insight," Dr. Miriam Kastner, Scripps In­stitution of Oceanography, Room 101 Earth Sciences Building. 

•7, 
9:15 & 11:30 p.m.-Film, "Caddyshack," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Stu­dent Activities Board, SI.50. 

•7:30
p.m. -Concert, Hank Williams, Jr., ACC, Sl2.50 & $10.50. 

•8 
p.m.-SMC Concert, SMC Collegiate Choir, Church ofloretto. 


TV Tonight 
6:}0p.m. 16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBS Evening News 
•8 
p.m. -BlackStudies Lecture, "TheJesse Jackson Campaign," Prof. Lorn Foster, Pomona College, Washington Hall. 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture & Dialogue, "What Hap­pens When Christians and Jews Pray Toget­her: A Guide to Guidelines," Prof. John Pawlikowski, Chicago Theological Union, and Prof. Lawrence Hoffman, Hebrew College, library Lounge. 

•8 
p.m. -InformalTalk, "Want to Know More About Duarte, Our Commencement Speaker?" Fr. Pelton, Sponsored by SOLA, Centerfor Social Concerns. 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 

Dublin broil Spaghetti with Italian sauce Broiled cod SaintMary's AnTostal Picnic Baked chicken Bratwurst HotDogs 
28 Eye to Eye 34 Mystery 
7:00p.m.  28 16 22  ABC's Nightly News M•A•s•H Three's Company  9:30p.m. 10:00p.m.  16 16 22  Night Court Hill Street Blues Honor, Duty &A War Called Vietnam  
28  Jeopardy  28  20/20  
7:30p.m.  16  Barney Miller  34  Masterpiece Theatre  
22  WKRP in Cincinnati  ll:OOp.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
28  Wheel ofFortune  22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
8:00p.m.  16 22  Bill Cosby Show Magnum, PI  11:30p.m.  16 22  Tonight Show Newhart!Movie  
28  Wildside  28  ABC News Nightline  
34  34 Front  34  Movie  
8:30p.m. 9:00p.m.  16 16  Family Ties Cheers  12:00a.m. 12:30a.m.  28 16  Love Connection Late Night With David Letterman  
22  Simon & Simon  2:00a.m.  22  Nightwatch  

Wanted! 
Any person with no sense of humor 
WE CAN MAKE YOU LAUGH 

$2.00 per ticket April 27th, 6:00 Tickets at Rock du Lac Washington Hall 25 reward to anyone who doesn't laug 

WANTED: 
Hard working, fun loving people who want to make the '85-'86 school year the best ever. How can this objective be achieved? By calling Steve at 239-7757 
and joining **The Special Events Committee** Help out with: 
ANTOSTAL FALL FESTIVAL MARDI GRAS WELCOME WEEK 
Thursday,April25, 1985-page 12 
Rousseau's, Fun Bunch roll, Jimmy G. edges TWL, 21-19 
By NICK SCHRANTZ Revenge of the Fun Bunch easily lead and then cruised in for the vic­Sports Writer eliminated Rhythm Method 2I-I0 in tory. its quest for the championship that Balanced scoring provided the 
The Elite Eight teams of barely eluded it last year. Steve key to victory, as Bob Michels, Pat Bookstore XIV have earned a well Treacy ended the game with a fast Deignan, and Ken Schuermann all deserved day off today, as yester­break layup, which just added to his poured in five buckets. Kevin day's games were filled with the fine 8-of-1 I shooting and pressure Laracey followed right behind with most competitive and physical play defense. Backcourt mate Pat Collins four baskets on only six shots. of the tournament to date. poured in six baskets, while the Shawn Hoban was the only 
Rousseau's Noble Savages showed huge front line of Greg Dingcns, Vegetable not to spoil, as he shot 6­
no mercy in crushing Four Matt Dingens, and Tom Rehder for-12 to lead the effort in the losing Dinglebcrrics & a Kresgie by a 21-8 combined for seven baskets and 23 cause. Key players Matt Hanley and score. Brian Behmer displayed a soft rebounds. Bill ZadeH never got untracked and shooting touch from eight feet out Joe Capuano and John Kennedy combined for only three hoops on to pour in nine baskets in only IS each canned three shots for the 20 tries. attempts for the Savages. Michael losers, who could only hit on I 0-of-Weethy's Warriors may be un­Muldowney powered in 7-of-I 0 43 attempts. known to much of the campus, but 
tries to aid in the winners' 2I-for-4I WBBS Goes Off the Air managed they won't be for long if they con­shooting performance. to stay on the airwaves for at least tinue to play like they did yesterday. Doug Pratt led the Dingleberries one more game, as they eliminated The Warriors went on the warpath with three baskets, as his team could Showtime 2I-I2 in one of the day's to gefeat Ist Source Bank Travelling only manage 28 shots from the field. rougher games. Teamwork is vital at All-Stars & Motor Kings by a 21-I ; Jimmy G. & the Spots stole the this stage in the tournament, and no score. 
thunder from Tequila White Lightn­squad plays together better than Keith Sawayda and Tim Beardsley ing in the closest game of the day. A WBBS. collected eight scalps apiece for the stirring comeback by Tequila fell Bill McGrath muscled his way to Warriors, while Dan Duff drove for 
just short, as Jimmy G. escaped with seven baskets and eight rebounds to ten baskets in a losing cause. a narrow 2I-I9 victory. Rich lead the winners. Dan Dressel and Casey Newell is now the only var­Potscuzzo and Steve Takach each John McDavid helped the WBBS sity player left in the tournament, as 
connected on seven attempts for the frontline dominate the game, as it his Red Barons flew to a 21-14 vic· victors, while Jim Gardner added contributed nine baskets and 17 tory over 4 Fags & a Zahmbie. Tom four. rebounds. Antonini and John Stein were the Mike Conlin's rebounding and aces for the Red Barons, as each Chris Nanni's shooting led the Te­Nick Molchan led Showtime with found the target on seven shots. Dan quila charge that ended with a five baskets, but the team overall Michelini and Mike Nee contributed Jimmy G. layup. Nanni pumped in could only shoot 12-for-44. Espe­six point.~ apiece in the losing effort. five baskets, while Conlin and Mike cially detrimental to the losers was Dangling Manhood defeated Let's Scotty each contributed four for the the fact that Ken McManus and Kim Go Crazy, 21-16, fo'r the final spot in scrappy losers. Adams could only connect on four the Elite Eight. Tim Brown soared to of their 25 tries. seven baskets on I 0 attempts, while The S:OO game at Lyons I I was a Joel Williams aided the winners with perfect example of experience win­4-for-S shooting. Joe Howard con­
Irish women's tennis team winds up 
ning out over inexperience. Ed tributed another five baskets for Smierciak & Four Other Guys Better Dangling Manhood, while Steve Nic· Than John Paxson, a team made up gorski threw in six shots for the 
of five seniors, crushed the five losers. freshmen who compose Tofu Theeight teams return to action By MARY SIEGER this afternoon because of schedule cipline," said Notre Dame head Vegetables I by a 21-13 score. The on Friday, with the quarterfinal Sports VVriter clashes. lbe meet was originally coach Sharon Petro. "We still need game was never in doubt, as Smier­games being played on the changed to yesterday afternoon to to concentrate on every point." ciak exploded to an I I-1 halftime Bookstore courts at 5:00 and 6: IS. 'lbc end is ncar. 
regular season today against Belles 
avoid conflicts with tonight's An Earlier this season, Notre Dame Tostal events at Saint Mary's. beat the Belle~ 9-0 in a spring
No, we aren't just celebrating the scrimmage. While the Irish hope to
final days of an Ollie Frctter super Notre Dame is looking forward to sale. Weather and tonight's Mr. the opportunity to end its season claim today's meet with a com­
Saint Mary's takes two 
Campus contest permitting, the with an I8-4 record as the Irish walk parable score, they are not taking onto the courts this afternoon. The the contest with the Belles lightly. A 
Notre Dame women's tennis team will close the books on its regular team also plans to use today's meet fiercely competitive spirit 
against Manchester 
season today at 3 p.m. against the to build its confidence as the Irish dominated the Notre Dame locker prepare for next month's NCAA room before yesterday's practice as
Belles of Saint Mary's College at the Division II National Championship the Irish began anticipating today's
Angela Athelctic Facility. By KELLY PORTOLESE homore catcherJanine Adamo faked 

Today's contest between the Irish Tournament in California. meet. and the Belles was switched back to "This meet will help us with dis-see TENNIS, page 9 
Notre Dame women's track team has youth to build for the future 
SaintMary's Sports Editor a throw to second on an attempted 
steal and fired a throw to third 

The Saint Mary's softball team baseman Mary LynH Mulcahy, who braved the cold and wind yesterday laid the tag on the runner leaning a afternoon and came away with two little too far toward home, for the big NAIA conferenn· victories over third out. the Manchester College Lady Spar­Offensively, the Belles sent two tans, by the scores of6-4 and I S-8 on runs across in the bottom of the first the Belles' home field. on a lead-off single by Theiss, who 
The Belles improve their season was sent tosecond on a perfectly ex­record to an impressive I S-6 slate. ecuted bunt by senior Elaine Suess. 
"'lbese wins helped us a great deal Adamo, who owns a . S21 batting as far as qualifing (for the state average, then ripped a solid triple to tournament)." said Head Coach deep left-center field knocking in Scott Beisel. "I was very pleased Theiss. A sacrifice fly by clean-up with the intensity. This is the type of batter Teresa McGinnis sent Adamo ball we need to play." home for a quick Saint Mary's two­
Beisel was especially happy with run advantage. the Belles' display of aggressiveness Again, the Bdlt-s were in top form at the plate in laying down the bunt. defensively in the second as they 
"We worked really hard on the ex­picked off a straggling runner on ecution of bunts in practice yester­second for out number one. 'lbey day. The bunt worked really well for later turned over a nifty double play us today. The more aggressive we on a grounder hit to Mulcahy who are, the more we can force the other whipped it to second baseman Kris team to make mistakes, " com­Pantelleria who threw it to Theiss on mented Beisel. first to retire the side. 
Senior Barb Theiss was also In the bottom of that inning, Saint pleased with the wins. Mary's got its third run as Theiss at· 
"We all executed well today. It tempted to steal second and got was just an overall effort," said the caught in a rundown, which allowed first baseman. Pantelleria on third to score. Theiss 
Not only was the Saint Mary's of­outwitted her pursuers and was safe fense on target yesterday, but on second and later scored on a Manchester quickly learned it Manchester error for a 4-0 Saint couldn't mess around with the Mary's advantage. Belles' defense. The Belles pushed across another 
With Lady Spartan runners on first and third in the first inning, sop-see BELLES, page 10 
At this past weekend's track meet against St. Joseph's College, the Notre Dame women's track team did vt·ry well. The team's hard work and dedication paid off as many of the women did very well in the meet. 
Panicularly notable at the meet were the frcsh­mt·n and sophomores. Jeanne Luther, a sophomore, placed first in the discus and the javelin events. In the discus, Luther set a new school record of I 14 feet. Other ladies who did very well areJulia Merkel, Susan Wanchow, Maureen Kibelstis, Beth Mirko, Bridgette Tompkins, Nancy Loughlin, Ann Gibson, and Alison Cameron. 
Merkel, a freshman, and Wanchow, a junior, ran well in the I SOO-meter race, finishing first and third, respectively. Kibelstis, a freshman, ran second in the 200-meter race, while Mirko and Tompkins, both freshman, placed first and second, respectively, in the 400-mcter run. Loughlin, a freshman, Gibson and Cameron, both sophomores, placed third, fourth, and fifth, respectively, in the 3000-meter race. 
A week earlier, at the Hillsdale Invitational, Nancy Loughlin ran her personal best in the I 500 meters with a time of 5:28, while Merkel placed second in the 800-meter race with a time of2:24. Also finishing second was the 1600-meter relay team ofCathy Wil­liard, Mirko, Merkel, andJinny BUssert with a time of 4:23. 
Tom 
~ 

Yoon 

f:=: =' 
-
Club Corner 


"We are really pleased with the results ofJeanne and Julia this year, and despite many injuries, we have managed to still keep a very competitive team," says senior Carrie Rowe. "With many of our strongest runners being freshman and sophomores, we have hopes for a very strong future. And since this year is my last, I was very pleased to work with the team and I wish the very best for the team in the future." 
MEN'S VOLLEYBALL: This past weekend, the Notre Dame Men's Volleyball team competed in the tournament to decide the final four of the Midwest Intercollegiate Volleyball Association. 
The Irish played George Williams University at Ball State, and took the varsity team to five games before coming out on the short end of the stick. In that match, the Irish lost the ftrst game, 15-I2, but won the second and the third by the scores of I 5-5 
see VOLLEYBALL, page 10 





