The Bomb -page 7 

provide impetus on arms control but that the leaders would issue no  Reagan's chief adviser on arms control, Paul Nltze, was among ex­ White House spokesman Larry Speakes declined to comment on  Speakes refused to say whether a joint statement or communique  
GENEVA · President Reagan and Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev concluded their extraordinarily per­sonal summit yesterday, claiming "broad areas of agreement" but providing no details on whether the superpowers had resolved any major Issues. "The news is so good that we're going to hold It for tomorrow," Reagan teased reporters after the formal talks had ended. A joint farewell ceremony was hastily scheduled for this morning. A U.S. source Indicated that there would lx a joint statement to  specific guidelines to help perts who continued discussions fol­negotiators break the current im­' lowing the end ofyesterday's formal passe. · negotiations. It was an indication that the summit's most contentious Gorbachev said only, "I hope issue remained unresolved as the there will be," when asked If any leaders adjourned for dinner. joint agreements would be signed. The leaders, sitting with advisers and their wives before a roaring fireA State Department negotiator, in the library, went over and en­Raymond Benson, said the two sides dorsed the experts' telephonehad approved cultural exchange report.provisions that call for exchange of The U.S. source, who spoke onstudents, performing arts groups, condition of anonymity, predictedexhibitions and sports teams. The of­at least one surprise at today'sficial who spoke on condition of farewell and said plans for a follow­anonymity said the agre.ement up summit might await a post­would be signed today. summit decision.  whether any significant agreements were forged, adhering to the news blackout established during Tues­day's first summit session. Speakes promised a briefing fol­lowing the ceremony set for 1 0 a.m. Geneva time ( 4 a.m. EST) and said it would be clear to observers then whether the summit could be con­sidered as success. The Soviets had sought a final ceremony for weeks, but there was no word on Reagan's acceptance un­til almost midnight yesterday, Geneva time.  would be issued or whether the leaders would sign specific agree­ments. He said neither Reagan nor Gorbachev would take qudtions, but the Soviets Indicated Gorbachev would hold a news conference after the ceremony had ended. 'lbe ceremony was to be Reagan's final event In Geneva before leaving to brief NATO leaders in Brussels en route to Washington and a speech to a joint meeting ofCongress. Last night's dinner was to have been a ·social affair, but like the for­mal negotiating sessions, the agenda didn't hold.  

Signs added at U.S. 31 to make crossing safer 
By SHANNON OAKES. Chlebek also proposed the instal· StaffReporter lation of a strobe light on the intersection's traffic signal to "warn Five new pedestrian crossing motorists of the dangerous Intersec­signs have been installed on U.S. 31 tion," extending the delay signal bet­hctween Notre Oame and Saint ween the light cycle, adding street Mary's as a result of a letter written lights south of the intersection, and by Richard Chlebek, director of north to the toll road exit and sc:curity at Saint Mary's. entrance ramps, and installing an The signs are placed such that two automatic traffic signal at Douglas are visible to northbound traffic and Road which would be in operation three to southbound traffic. an hour before and an hour after 
Chlebek sent a letter to the In­business hours. diana State Highway Commission This would aid the mergingoftraf· Aug. 7 concerning what he said he fie entering U.S. 31 from Saint felt were "dangerous traffic condi­Mary's, according to Chlebek. tions" on U.S. 31. These proposals are awaiting aut­
The volume of motor vehicle traf­horization from Indianapolis, 
fic on U.S. 31 and the number of Chlebeksaid. He said he is expecting Saint Mary's and Notre Dame stu­a reply within the next week. Tbe Easy Street Band performed last night at tbe good example ofsome oftbe untapped local talent dents that cross at the intersection "Hopefully these (changes) will Sentor-Aiumni Club. Playing tbe mustc ofsuch ar­in South Bend," according to club General • Increase the probability of an acci­improve the dangerous conditions tists as the Doors and Pink Floyd, tbe band was "a Manager David Wood. 
dent, according to Chlebek. at the Intersection," said Chlebek. 

Less incidents at home games attributed to new policies 
an Inebriated fan. The St. Joseph Sheriff's Posse, detentions and fewer problems really look at it." 
Tbis is tbe second part of a 
"It forced the University to re­which is armed and divided into Inside the stadium, he said. So far, Rakow said, the rule has
three-article series examining 
evaluate . . . what responsibilities 
serves two In addition, there have been no been effective.
security at Notre Dame borne foot­
we have to provide a safe atmo­vehicle thefts and "only three or "I don't know if we've been
ball games. Today's story focuses 
sphere," he said. four break-Ins," Rakow added. successful or Ifpeople who used to
on bow security bas evolved over 
The ban on kegs from parkinglot "I credit that to the extra people run on the field have just given
tbe years. It analyzes bow recent 
areas has been "one of the biggest we brought in." up," he said, adding, "I hope stu­
changes bave attempted to im­
changes," Rakow said, and Is "an Although 60 city and county dents get some kind of award for
prnt'e Sf'CUrity. 
extension ofthe alcohol policy." police officers stlll are used Inside staying offthe field." 
"If It's fair for students for the the stadium, the South Bend Police In an effort to curb drinking By MARK PANKOWSKI whole year, then it should be fair Department is no longer In charge during halftime, "pass-outs," Assistant News Editor for visitors." The first Is to control "alcohol of them, he said. which permit fans to re-enter the 
Because the ban Is "more an or· and behavior (which) were get­SL}oseph County Pollee Depart­stadium after leaving, are now 
There have been fewer deten­dinance than an arrestable of­ting out of hand" last year, and the ment is now the primary agency in issued and honored onlyat gate 14. tions, fewer thefts from vehicles, fense," Rakow said, no one has other Is to "keep an eye out for command, Rakow said. The change Last year fans could leave and re­and fewer people thrown out of been arrested for violating the thefts from vehicles, vandalism and was prompted by the city officers' enter at all the gates, he said. the stadium. rule. Security does confiscate kegs, people who might find themselves threat to go on strike and boycott The new system of "pass-outs," 
People are enjoying the games however, and has done sosix times in an Intoxicated state." Notre Dame football games during Rakow said, has "reduced the num­more and drinking less. this year, he said. "The mounted police are not the summer. The county pollee of­ber of people who go out and get 
And it's all the result of changes Along with the ban on kegs came looking so much for kegs, but for fered to take command and tanked up-or we hope." in..'ltituted this year, according to signs warning tailgaters of the Uni­people infringing on the rights of Security accepted. Although drinking has been Notre Oame Security Director Rex versity's crackdown on alcohol others," Rakow said. Another change this year curbed as a result of the new rules, Rakow. abuse; this is the result, Rakow In addition to the posse, 12 of­resulted in students·· disappearing Rakow said Security next year 
Or so he'd "like to think," Rakow said, of a "joint effort between the ficers on foot were hired this year, from a once-traditional environ­"will be doing even more educat­said. athletic department and the he said. The unarmed officers "are ment: the playing field. ing of our usher staff' to prevent 
There have been several (University) legal council." extra eyes and ears for us. If they The ban on "persons without drlnldng Inside the stadium. changes in football Saturdays since The signs, several ofwhich were see a problem, they call it in to us." specific authorization," according "At the games In the future, we'll last year, the ban on kegs and the stolen soon after being posted, Once a report is called in, to Rakow, was prompted by an be getting more strict," he added. addition of 12 mounted officers warn that "abuse ofthe rights ofot­Security then responds, he said. incident last year in which fans But for now, Security still has Its among the more visible. hers as a result of the use of In­There have been no arrests rushed onto the field and tore problems, Rakow said. 
"The lawsuit was the catalyst for toxicating beverages will not be inside the stadium so far this year, down a goal post. "It's no picnic for officers to a lot of the changes ...," Rakow tolerated on University grounds." Rakow said, adding that five to six "It's such a dangerous situation. wade through 200 persons to take said, referring to the woman who In order to enforce this, Rakow persons normally are arrested There were several Injuries at ot­their keg away," he said. 
successfully sued the University said, Security brought in 12 Inside the stadium each year. her schools when goal posts came "It's like taking the proverbial 
for Injuries s11ffered as the result of mounted officers this year. There also have been fewer ' down," he said. "That caused us to thprn out ofthe lion's paw." 
------------------~-------­
The Observer Thursday, November 21, 1985-page 2 
In Brief 
Anne Marie DuCharme, a senior at Notre Dame majoring in marketing, is the winner of a Geraldine Escobar Memorial Scholarship. She will attend a five-day collegiate institute i~ direct marketing in New York City in December. DuCharme is one of 28 winners in this national competition sponsored by the Direct Marketing Educational Foundation. The scltolarship covers tuition, materials, meals, hotel accommodations and a transporta­tion allowance. -The Observer 
Notre Dame's College ofEngineering 
has been selected for membership in the Association for Media­based Continuing Education for Engineers. The association is a group of universities that produces and distributes videotape con­tinuing education programs for engineeers, industrial scientists and technical managers. Notre Dame is one of 33 members of the AM­CEE, which is headquartered at the Georgia Institute ofTechnology in Atlanta. -Tbe Observer 
The Declo FacultyBulldinghas been cited for 
outstanding design by a jury of professional architects and educators. The announcement was made in the November 1985 issue of American School and University, the monthly business magazine for school and college administrators. The jury said ofthe building, "The architects were able to address both the older and newer architectural styles in a prestigious setting with a building that is convenient, comfortable and inviting for faculty and stu~ dents."-Tbe Observer 
Milton Burton, internationally recognized as the "Godfather of Radiation Chemistry" and for 25 years director ofthe Radiation Laboratory at Notre Dame, died in his home at 11:55 a.m. on Monday. During World War II, Burton was among the scientists who worked on the Manhattan Project, which developed the atomic bomb. His research during the war was conducted in Chicago and at the Clinton Laboratories in Oak Ridge, Tenn. Burton received the title "Godfather of Radiation Chemistry" decades ago from the French scientist Michel Mugat during a banquet in Moscow. Burton gave the field its name and at one time supervised virtually all radia­tion chemistry research wocldwide. -The Observer 
Of Interest 
The Overseas Development Network 
will hold an organizational meeting tonight at 7 in the Center for Social Concerns library. ODN encourages anyone interested in Third World developmental issues to attend or contact Professor Kenneth jameson ofthe department ofeconomics.-The Observer 
All Studentsinterested in auditioning for the Notre Dame Concert Band should inquire in the band office in the _lower level of Washington Hall.-The Observer 
The EnduringWllderness, a rum about the im­
portance of our National Parks will be shown tonight at 8 in the Center for Social Concerns by the Environmental Concerns Or­ganization. -The Observer 
Advertising Careers will be the topic of discussion presented by Gary Villani, manager of employment for the Young and Rubilam Advertising Agency tonight at 8 in room 122 ofHayes­Healy Center. The presentation is sponsored by the Arts and Letters 
Business Society. -The Observer 
Weather 
Keep your nose covered because it's going to stay cold outside. Temperatures will dip toward freezing, with a high near 40. Gradual increasing cloudiness and a 20 percent chance of rain, possibly mixed with sleet in the afternoon today. There's a 60 to 70 percent 
chance of rain for tonight and tomorrow. Tomorrow's high will approach 50. -AP 

r"~o:41111··~_.:.. 


Design Editor •....................... Allee Kroeger Design .Mststant .......•... Mark Mclaughlin LayoutStaff............................... Bill Argenta Typesetters.................... Becky Gunderman Mark B. johnson Chuck Papandrea News Editor .............................. .john Heasly Copy Editor ................................ Miriam Hill Sports Copy Editor ...... Eric Scheuermann Viewpoint Copy Editor ........ Doug Hasler 
VIewpoint Layout................. Carol Brown Features Copy Editor ................... Ed Nolan Features Layout............... Marie! Labrador ND Day Editor ................... Sharon Emmite SMC Day Editor................. Mary jean Sully Ad Design .................. Mary Carol Creadon 
Peter Georges joan Wrappe Photographer............ Maureen Bachmann 
( 

lbe Observer (USPS 599 2·~000) is published Monday through Friday except durmg exam and vacation periods. lbeObserver is published by the studentsofthe llniversity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary"s College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S30 per year ( J.W per semester) by writing lbe Observer, P.O. Box Q. Nocre Dame. Indiana 46556. 
lbe Observer is a member of lbe Associated Press. AI. reproduction rights are reSI"rvc:d. 
If the weather don't get ya' the television commercials will 
As the temperatures begin to fall and the tons ofsnow begin queuing up to fall on this lovely campus, I am reminded how much I hate the winters in South Bend. I can't stand the pasty, grey sky that is omnipresent from December to March and I can't stand plodding through snow and slipping on the ice in front ofthe dining hall. 
As you may have guessed, I am from the South, and I do hate the weather here. If this place were in my hometown, I would think Notre Dame was the perfect University. 
Despite how much I hate the weather in South Bend, I would endure all ofthe back-breaking skids on the ice and all of the 80 below zero wind-chill factors if they would just get rid of the horrible media in this town. If there is one thing that I hate more than the weather in South Bend, it has to be the "public service" spots that are run on WNDU television and the horrible advertis­ing present on both South Bend radio and television. 
Do not get me wrong, I do not hate South Bend, nor am I trying to offend all of those Domers who hope one day to replace Lt. Sam Walsh on "Crime of the Week." It's just that I can't stand seeing all ofthose plas­tic people on my television set. 
The most unbelievable character on television has to be the above-mentioned Lt. Sam Walsh. Granted, the Crimestoppers' "Crime of the Week" does serve a very admirable purpose in this community. , The one­minute spot helps to solve crimes that the police have no solid leads on and en­courages people to be better citizens. 

But think about it, how would you like it if it were your murdered grandmother being portrayed by some old bat on television as Sam proceeds to give an exact sketch of a crime "they have no leads on"? No matter how annoying the portrayal may be, however, the show does have a purpose. 
On the other hand, the one spot on WNDU that makes absolutely no sense to me is "Job Tips." Let's face it, folks, this thing is garbage. 
Every time that I have seen this clip, they always have featured some person who is so drippy that I would never even want to admit I thought of being in his line ofwork. 
I will never forget the thousand-part series that "Job Tips" ran featuring a waiter from a prominent South Bend restaurant. Every time this guy was asked another meaningless question about being a waiter, he would stare directly at the answer sheet he had onhis lap as the camera zoomed in on the side ofhis face. It was classic 


Kevin Becker 
Assistant Vi.ewpoint Editor 
South Bend television. 
But, enough of the picking on the series that some will defend as helping the public. The spots that no one in the civilized world should be exposed to are the ad­vertisements we s.ee on South Bend television. 
There are two particularly grating TV sell sessions that come to mind. 
The first, of course, is the ever-famous song of this wonderful city. As the scenes of the Golden Dome fade into a majestic shot of the top of St. Joe's Bank, a 
cherubim of South Bend an­gels chant in harmony, "South Bend, Mishawaka, alive with pride." 
It almost brings a lump to my throat to think about it. This is a city that is so full of pride that they need to send the "South Bend, Mis­hawaka" hymn over the air­ways for at least 50 percent of the time that I am watch­ingWNDU. 
But the last and most ob­noxious of all things that has ever hit the airwaves in the retrospective, present, and future history of mankind has to be the commercials for -you guessed it ­"Waterbeds, Waterbeds, 
Waterbeds" where waterbeds are their "middle name" and aggravation is their first. 
I cannot begin to count the times that my ears have been decimated by this annoying spurt of the ridiculous. 
I also cannot begin to say how often I have wanted to kill the producer of this commercial and the owner of this store. Because of this ad, I will never sleep on a wavy waterbed, semi-waveless waterbed or even a waveless waterbed. I hate those peoples' ads. I hate their sales and I hate them for torturing me with their stupidity. 
This winter, I am going to turn off the television and go play in the snow -I probably will enjoy it more. 
Tbe views expressed In tbe Inside column are tbe views oftbe author, and do not necessarily reflect tbe views of Tbe Observer editorial board or staff. 


MID .. EASTERN VEGETARIAN 
• 
Ve,.ta,...,. & that Di.lwe FOODS SHAWEilMA A MUGEDERA -BABA GHENOUJ HOMMUS-FELAFEL TEBBOULI S~U.D 

• 
LEBAN_ESB STYLE 



21 
NOVEMBER 
1985 

Smokeout Day 
DO ITJ 

SOUTH BEND 
• 
Pita Slulfed Sdrtdwid&u G VROS 

• 
Delilhtful Paatriea • Turlluh Col/u 288-5639 


Tuea -Sat S:JOPM -9:30PM COMPLETEC"ATENNG FOR 838 Portage
PARTIES 4 BANQUETS 107..Discount for ND/SMC Students 

SummerJob Applications Available 
Tlae Notre Dame AlumniAssociation, in cooperation with the Careerand PlacementServices Office, will again sponsor the SummerJob PlacementProgram 
in 1985 
IF YOU AREINTERESTED INAPPLYINGFOR SUMMER JOBS INAN Alumni Club city, obtain an application/rom the Alumni Office, 201 Admin. Bldg. 
~ 

APPLICATIONS MUST BE COMPLETED AND RETURNED BY NOVEMBER 30. 
The Observer Thursday, November 21, 1985-page 3 
Y&RNY 
YOUNG&RUBICAM NEWYORK 
"The No. 1 Advertising Agency in the World" 
You are invited to meet Mr. Gary Villani, Manager of Employment and hear him speak on "Alternative Careers in the World of Advertising" 
Thursday, November 21st 8 pm in Hayes-Healy Auditorium 
Sponsored by the Notre Dame Arts & Letters Business Society 


H H!;.. ·;·; H -~ ~;-~..:~: -~ ·~i· =·:---:·. :·:·;~ 
[CD~~~ [ITffi ~ ~@~ 
Tl"1€-c:arnpuS-V·lh:le test fil.s-. 

To 0rder your tests (or just. to see -.:Nhat vve've got) look in your hall for the room of your Tests Unllmited hall representative novvll! 


or·1ers taken today through Tuesday comments, questions, problems -call 1.3,73 
ND professor endorses divestment of SMC South African investments 
By MARGffi KERSTEN and KIMBERLY TRENNER 
Senior StaffReporters 

Will Saint Mary's College divest its South African investments? 
Selective divestment, total divest­
ment or the maintenence ofthe Col­
lege's present position were all 
possibilities discussed by William 
Hickey, acting president of Saint 
Mary's. 

Hickey remarks were presented at 
a lecture held Tuesday night, which 
was part of a South African Aware· 
ness week at Saint Mary's. 

"I think Saint Mary's and Notre Dame need to be pulled out of their parochialism," said Peter Walshe, professor of government and dlrec· tor ofAfrican studies at Notre Dame. 
W alshe was the fourth speaker in the series oflectures held this week. The discussion focused primarily on both the economic and business aspects of U.S. Involvement In South Africa and the role Saint Mary's could play In countering apartheid. 
The lecture was preceded by a short rum, "More Than an Invest· ment," produced by the South African Embassy. The rum was "professionally done," but, "the most fascinating part about it was that It neglected to address the Issue ofapartheid," said Walshe. 
Walshe spoke to an audience made up of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, faculty, Saint Mary's administration and members of the South Bend community, some of whom participated in the two-hour discussion. 
After the rum, Walshe spoke, pointing out both moral and economic reasons in favor of divest· ment. 
"A process of divestment takes time, perhaps one or two years," he said, and then went on to explain why this divestment should take place. 

Corporate investments In South Africa "have strengthened apar­theid," he said. Corporations bring "capital, technology and ad­ministrative expertise" into South Africa, according to Walshe. These corporations are productive en· terprlses for the South African government, military and pollee through tax revenue. 
Walshe also stressed the impor· 
tance  of two  "levers" which  are  
necessary  for  change.  These  are  
protests  by  blacks,  backed  by  

economic sanctions. Walshe stated the importance of the collaboration ofthese two forces. 
The distinction between micro and macro analysis ofapartheid was made by Walshe. The Sullivan Prin· clples are strictly micro analytic and do not change the segregation in society as a whole. 
Walshe commented, the Sullivan Principles focus their concern on in· tegratlng the "restaurants and toilets" within the corporate build· ings. But segregation remains outside the corporate walls, he said, leaving the basic structures of apar· theld untouched. 
Walshe said the response of the South African government to the black uprise Is clear. The govern­ment has "refused to meet with members of the African National Congress," its military occupies black townships, and they have destroyed "the last remnants of free press." 
"Our white middle-class pater­nalism," must be overcome, Walshe said. "We think we have the answer for South Africa but we block our 
ears and do not hear black opinion," 
he said. 
Dorothy Felgl, acting vice presi· dent and dean of faculty at Saint Mary's, questioned why divestment would be a positive step. Walshe responded by explaining the neces­sity of a growing economy in South Africa and an Increase In Jobs for blacks. "South Africa needs the help from the West to expand their economy," Walshe said. 
The question of divestment at Saint Mary's was posed to Hickey. He responded, "We have been reading a lot . . . " and he continued on tosay "we have found no answer,lt is a rat­her complex Issue." 
Hickey explained that the Issues of divestment are being researched by the Investment Sub-Committee of the Finance and Budget Commit­tee. This sub-committee Is made up of members of the Saint Mary's Board of Regents and two ad· ministrators from the Colleau:. 
Walshe then said the College al· ways should keep the morality ofthe Issue In mind. "Our investments are a moral Issue." But If the bQard is concerned with the legality of the issue, they should be "questioning their responsibilities to the stock­holders, as the rate ofreturn In South African Investments has fallen to a mere 5 percent," Walshe said. 
In response to · the question, "Would Saint Mary's disclose the names of the corporations in which the College has investments?" Hickey replied, "1 can't think off­hand why we wouldn't." Hickey then recommended welting a letter to request the names ofthe corpora­tions and said In the meantime hC' would check through the proper channels. 

AHention: Notre Dame Employees YOU CAN JOIN THE FIRST LOCAL IPA*HMO IN THE 
MICHIANA AREA 
Key
Health Plan 
1Ooo/o 
TOTAL HEALTH CARE WITH NO DEDUCJIBLES AND MINIMAL COPAYMENTS .,.. OFFICE VISITS COVERS .,.. ROUTINE CHECK-U.PS .,.. PREGNANCIES
IN FULL 
.,.SURGERIES .,.. HOSPITALIZATIONS .,.. EMERGENCY CARE BOTH IN AND OUT OF AREA ­
WORLDWIDE .,.. PAP SMEARS .,.. IMMUNIZATIONS/INOCUlATIONS 
KEY HEALTH PLAN 
Wholly Owned by Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Indiana 
*Individual Practice Association (you personally choose a privately practicing physician as your health care manager) 
Rowing club 50-hour 'ergathon' begins today 
By CHRIS MURPHY 
News Staff 
Members of the Notre Dame 
Rowing Club will be doing a lot of 
rowing for the next two days. But 
they won't be going any farther than 
South Dining Hall. 
The club will begin its annual er· 
gathon at 10:20 this morning. 
The ergathon, which will take 
place at the South Dining Hall, is to 
rowers what a marathon is to run­
ners. 
Club members will test their stamina on an ergometer, a machine which simulates the resistance of rowing. A boat is attached to a bike wheel with metal chains. Four rowers sit In the simulated machine much like a rowboat. One hundred and twenty members in all will be rowing for the club during the ergat· bon. 
Club President Mike Songer said he hopes the club will reach its goal of rowing for 50 hours. The ergat· hon will conclude at 12:20 Saturday afternoon, kickoff time for the Notre Dame-LSU game. 

The ergathon's purpose Is to raise money for the Notre Dame Rowing Club. All I 50 members of the club collected pledges from the Notre Dame community. Pledges are 2 cents per hour or a Jl contribution If the club meets its 50-hour goal. 
The club has set a goal of raising $2,000 this year. Last year, the club taised $1,200 for its rowing efforts. All proceeds of the ergathon will go to meeting club expenses, accord­ing to Songer. 
"Rowing is a very expensive sport. · We currently have nine boats that cost about S700 per boat. Occas­sionaly, there are expenses such as a broken rudder that can cost up to S50. Maintaining these boats Is very expensive, as most of them are handmade, said Songer." 
Rowingclub members will also be accepting donations at the ergathon. 
AN 
OFFICER 
AND A GENTLEMAN 

Fri &Sat Nov 22 &23 
9:30& 11 PM 
Carroll Haii-SMC $1 
The Observer Thursday, November 21, 1985-page 4 
Juniper Press offers 'valuable' book publishing experience 
By LARRY BURKE 
StaffReporter 
It is not every day that a group of students publishes a book, but at Notre Dame it happens once a year. 
The group is the Juniper Press, a student-owned and operated com­pany which selects one publication to sell and market each year. 
This year the publication is "Reflections in the Dome," a collec­tion ofpersonal remembrances from 10 former Notre Dame students and professors. 
Juniper Press consists of the stu­dents in a book publishingcourse of­fered by the American studies department and taught by Elizabeth Christman, associate professor of American studies. 
Christman began the course at Notre Dame and has taught it each 
STV courses to be offered this spring 
ByEILEEN HOFFMANN 
StaffReporter 
"Bridging the culture gap bet­ween the sciences and the humanities" is the goal of a new Notre Dame program to be offered this spring, according to Associate Professor of philosophy Vaughn McKim, director of the new program. 
Titled "Science, Technology and Values," the program was made pos­sible by a grant from the National En­dowment for the Humanities. 
STV courses may be taken as elective courses for credit toward graduation, as complements to a par­ticular course of study or as a con­centration complementing any major. 
In the past 1 0 years, programs such as this have emerged at more than 40 schools throughout the country, McKim said. "MIT was probably the first school to begin such a program," he said. 
Notre Dame's program is most closely related to the programs at Stanford and Duke, McKim added. 
Aconcentration in STV consists of a total of five courses. Of the five courses, a student must take one course in each of three "clusters." The other two courses can be taken in any cluster. 
The clusters are; "History of Science and Technology," "Philosophy of Science and Tech­nology," and "Science, Technology and Values." 
Themes to be emphasized in the curriculum will be the history and philosophy ofthe sciences, as well as ethical issues in science and tech­nology. 
The STV office is in Room 338 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
University receives grant 
Speda1 to The Obaerver 
The University ofNotre Dame will receive a $1 million grant from the Dr. Scholl Foundation to endow a professorship in international economics. 
According to University President Father Theodore Hesburgh, "In gratefully accepting this important grant from the Dr. Scholl Founda­tion, we also celebrate Notre Dame's international character which the Foundation's beneficience have recognized and encouraged. We are pleased that from now on, there will always be a Dr. William Scholl Professor of International Economics at Notre Dame." 
The Dr. Wllliam Scholl Chairin In­ternational Economics brings to 63 the number of endowed chairs es­tablished at the University of Notre Dame. 
fall semester for the past nine years. 
In the actual publishing process, Christman is only an advisor, however. It is the students who handle the complete operation ­from selection of material to production and sales. 
"This course is valuable in two ways," explained Christman. "It of­fers the possibility of a career in book publishing for Arts and Letters majors because it provides substan­tial experience in that area, but it also teaches students about the busi­ness world in general -getting along with co-workers and thinking in terms ofprofit and loss." 
The members of Juniper Press 

take an interest in financial matters 
from the start. Each student invested 
$35 in the company to cover the ini­
tial production costs. If the book 
realizes a profit, then the students can choose to keep the extra money or put it in a fund for the next year's class. 
Although the course does include some reading and lectures on book publishing, the actual work on the book begins early in the semester. After the fourth class session, of­ficers are selected and students assume the responsibilities of their various positions. 
There are officers in the areas of production, marketing, and busi­ness, as well as a company president, a corporate secretary, an editor-in­chief, and a copy editor. 
Once the structure of the com­pany is set up and the type of publication is determined Juniper Press begins the publishing process. 
The first major task this year was selecting the specific essays to be published. Major James O'Rourke, 1968 alumnus and professor at Fort Benjamin Harrison in Indiana, sub­mitted a collection of essays to Juniper Press, and the final product is made up of the edited versions of l 0 ofthese essays. 
"We wanted essays that were well-written and entertaining," said Maura Mandyck, editor-in-chief of Juniper Press, who has final say as to which essays will be published. 
"We also wanted a good variety of essays. Generally, Juniper Press is aimed at appealing to students, but since this book contained essays from alumni we tried to make it more appealing to alumni." 
Once the content is decided upon, the material is edited and the production process begins. The work ofJuniper Press does not end with the editing and designing ofthe book, however. The business and marketing departments are at the same time working to finance and publicize the publication. 
All the members ofJuniper Press are required to put in extra time outside the regular class sessions, but Mandyck said she saw it as time well spent. 
"It's like an extra-curricular ac­tivity because it does take up a lot of time," she said. "The thing that makes it worthwhile is that in this class you have something to show for all the time you put in. In other classes you study, take tests, and get a grade, but you don't come away with anything to show for it." 
"Reflections in the Dome" is cur­rently on sale in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's bookstores. Sales are going well, according to Patricia Vanek, book department head at The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
MORGAN STANLEY 
will host an informal reception to discuss 2-year job opportunities for 1986 gradu~tes as 
Financial Analysts 
•
Ill 
Investment Banking 
Thursday, November 21, 1985 8:00p.m. Notre Dame Room The Morris Inn 
All Majors Welcome 
. . . ... .. .. .. .. ... . ... ..
~ 


r-----------------------~-----------------------------------------~ 
VieWJ2_C_J_i_n__t________Th_ur-sd-ay_,N-ov-em-be-r2_1_,19_8_5-p-ag...e-5 Notre Dame policies hinder our freedom of choice 

I love Notre Dame. I have wanted to come here since my sophomore year In high school. And now that I am here, I would not consider ~oing anywhere else. We have an intelligent, spirited student body, a reputable staff, a beautiful campus, and an overall atmosphere that is uniquely Notre Dame. It is because of Notre Dame's attributes and my own strong feelings for Notre Dame that I hesitate before criticizing it. But hopefully, this constructive criticism will be taken in the nature It was given, and it will at least be considered if not taken to heart. 
Rip Ewell 
mixed emotions 
First, I think it Is Important to point out that this is not another letter about parietals. I will cite parletals, however, as one ofthe examples of the probkm which I wish to address. I am concerned with a more general, underlying problem on this campus: freedom ofchoice or the lack thereof. 
In our younger days, It was standard, and indeed proper, for our parents to tell us what to and what not to do. This is normal and ac­ceptable behavior for parents. As we matured, it was expected that we would develop our own set of morals and principles by which we should act. Unfortunately, Notre Dame has taken over the old role ofO\lr parents, to some degree, by continuing to make some of our moral decisions for us. This brings up an inter­esting philosophical point:' if a person is forced to be moral (i.e. doesn't have any choice whether or not to be moral), Is he really moral? Or similarly, does a moral action that is freely chosen have more worth or value than a moral action that Is enforced? 
To help you answer the aforementioned questions, consider the following exag­gerated and admittedly somewhat grotesque example. An American priest decides to fast for a week to prepare for the upcoming holy day ofobligation. At the same time, a Catholic peasant in Ethiopia is told that there will be no more food for a week. Thus, a mandatory fast 

Is imposed upon him. Both people are Cat­
holic and observe the same holy day ofobliga­
tion. Also, both situations have the same end 
result: neither person eats for a week. But 
which action has more merit? Which action 
has more meaning or value? 
But let's talk about something more relevant. Let's talk about parietals. As we all know, parietals are those hours during which we are allowed in dormitories which house the opposite sex. But why do we have parie­tals? Although there are a few complementary reasons, I would say that it Is generally ac­cepted that the first and foremost reason for having parietals is to deter students from straying from the Church's moral teachings. But as I have pointed out, part ofthe value ofa moral action comes from freely choosing to act in that manner. Thus, though parietals may ensure that people act morally, they do not make people moral. Hence, following the 
Church's guidelines becomes, at least to a cer­tain extent, an empty gesture. Another example of an empty gesture at Notre Dame occurs during Lent. By not ser­
ving meat on Fridays during Lent, Notre Dame 
is making abstinence from meat just another 
meaningless gesture which students are 
forced to adher:e to. In addition to ruining 
lunch for non-Catholics and non-Christians, 
Notre Dame inadvertently removes the 
meaning from the tradition which It forces Its 
Catholic members to comply with. Instead of 
being able to choose meals either with or wit· 
hout meat, the students must observe the 
practice of abstaining from meat. Where does 
value derive from such a practice? 

Notre Dame really is quite special. 
Moreover, its student body is quite special 
too. We deserve the benefit of the doubt, and 
should be treated as young adults, nor as 
children. Along with such a distinction comes 
the right to and responsibility of making our 
own moral decisions. On graduation day we 
are not simply given a set ofmorals along with 
our diploma. No, far from that, we already 
have morals, and deserve to be trusted to act 
in accordance with them. 

Rip Ewell is a junior accounting major at Notre Dame. 
Edwards and anyone who thinks like him to remember this as they watch the LSU game this week: Ifyou think that all the world shares your idyllic view ofNotre Dame football and if you think that all is perfectly well under the untarnished Golden Dome, then you are lui· ling your conscience to sleep. 
Dan Thompson Cavanaugh Hall 
Cleaning up would help Iri~h hockey program 
Dear Editor: 

• Youthful goal installers who can barely see over the crossbar, let alone lift the cage onto the posts. Lofty banners bearing the initials and school colors of teams against which Notre Dame has not competed in three seasons. Sideboards that list . . . and the list 
goes on. 

This was the scene at Saturday night's game against St. Thomas College. If the hockey program is to continue to be taken seriously, then at least a few seasoned assistants, an over· head updating and some sideboard­straightening would appear to be In order. 
joseph Fogarty Fatima Retreat Center 
ND field hockey team had its own supporters 
Dear Editor: 
I agree strongly with Eric Bergamo's column re~ardin~ the obvious lack of student support for women's athletics at Notre Dame. These serious athletes dedicate much time, ef­fort and heart to their sport. Should not they, therefore, be shown the same respect and sup­port as their male counterparts? 
I would like to indicate, however, that In the midst of an apparently apathetic campus, there is a group of the world's greatest fans. I am referring to none other than the field hockey "groupies." 
These spirited revelers screamed, cheered and sang at every home game and even road tripped to several ofthe away games. The field hockey team was very fortunate to have had such loyal enthusiasts. 
Just remember, nothing feels better than to have someone cheer you on when you are doing your thing. 
Thanks fans. You all know who you are. 
Christina T. Weinmann Notre Damefield hockey plaver 
Picture of a division 
was incorrect to draw 
Dear Editor: 
This letter is written in response to a column appearing in The Observer on Nov. 12 entitled "Anti-Apartheid Network booed by ND students." 
Chris Edwards' column contained so many errors and betrayed such a terrifyingly closed mind that It would take far too long to list all these faults within a single letter. So I would like to point out two central attitudes of his which I found particularly dangerous. 
After Edwards has painted a rosy and idyllic picture of life at the average Notre Dame foot· ball game, he then goes on to describe the "perverse" incident when members of the Anti-Apartheid Network held up banners and c.illed for divestment. Because ofthe reaction 
Doonesbury 
of some members of the crowd, he quickly concludes that the entire student body has passed vecdict on the Anti-Apartheid Network and, indeed, upon the entire apartheid issue. So throughout the rest ofthe column Edwards divides the student body Into two groups: "us," the ones who think like Edwards and who conveniently form the overwhelming majority ofthe students, and "them," the very, very few who support the policies ofthe Anti­Apartheid Network. 
He characterizes "them" as people who are mindlessly distributing a mindless propaganda and are mindlessly following the leadership of Abbie Hoffman. He also charac­terizes the members of the network as pos­sibly ready to commit violent acts in order to Will at all costs. The flaws in his reasoning are manifest. First, his division ofthe students Into "us" and "them" is far too facile a distinction to make with no proof. This distinction really serves as his own propaganda to make every Notre Dame and Saint Mary's student identify with his cause and to portray the members of the Anti-Apartheid Network as some dan­gerous alien species. Everyone wants to be part of "us," no one waqts to join up with 
t'them." 
Second, despite his attribution of mindless­ness to all supporters ofdivestment, the mem­bers of the Anti-Apartheid Network are people who have discovered many of the ac­tual facts about the situation in South Africa and have reasonably decided to support the effort to bring about University divestment from South Africa. By his own characteriza­tion ofthe supporters ofdivestment, Edwards must admit that the editorial boards of both the Scholastic magazine and The Observer are all idiots because both publications have sup­ported divestment. If he bites the bullet and admits this, then he must also admit that Bis­hop Desmond Tutu, Rev. Beyers Naude, Rev. Alan Boesak, Notre Dame's own Peter Walshe and other public figures who have been in· volved in the struggle against apartheid for many years all have been completely deceived about the divestment situation while he has somehow seen the truth of the entire situation. 
As I read the article I noticed that Edwards' rhetoric became more and more hysterical as 
7HAT'5 RiGHT, ROlAN/?. AN{) 

A5 THet 5AY Gal?BY, EJOTH IJJHOA! WOMeN 5E£M 70 138 MAKING IJJHY, IAJHA/STH& (Lf.fffJ/ft¥7 FASHION 5TA7C­IT'S AN FIRST LAlJY /Y1I3NT5 -MRS. GORJ3,4CH£V AF6HAN.I 5AY/NG /A/fARING A CHIC (}t516NCR THEFC.t 
PRE9.3, MRS. ReAGAN TW?
I \
'ifDI<TIN6 A . .A.. 

f 
~ 

he wrote about the horrible things which the Anti-Apartheid Netword might possibly do if it did not get its way. His hysterical invocation of the horrors of '60s activism is yet another thoughtless propaganda piece designed to protray the members of the Anti-Apartheid Netword as members ofsome terrorist group while the true, blue and gold Domer eats his or her apple pie while patriotically watching the weekend's football game. 
Such a divisive picture of the student body is wrong and his assertion that a few banners held up at a football game could possibly lead to violence and death is an inference so bad that it boggles the mind to think that anyone could believe it. The Anti-Apartheid Network in no way advocates violence but it does adv­ocate awareness. Perhaps what Edwards is really upset about Is that someone tried to bring the real world into his fairy tale world of Notre Dame football. The Anti-Apartheid Net­work tried to bring conscience and awareness to the very heart of Notre Dame but Edwards and others like him would perhaps prefer that issues of morality and importance remain outside the University because they might threaten precious Notre Dame traditions. 
I would ask that all Notre Dame students think carefully before making such an un­tenable and rash condemnation of the Anti­Apartheid Network and I would ask Chris 
Garry Trudeau 
P.O. Box Q 


r------------------------------------------------­
Accent 
A collection of songs from your attic 
Band mixes secret ingredient in e~ch song 
ERIC BERGAMO 
features copy edttor 

W 
ine improves with age. Rock groups also improve over the course oftime. Rush, Canada's premier rock band, proves that the longer they stay together, much like fine wine, the better they become. 
Records 
Power Windows 
***"*<outoffour) 


• 
the album. Ifthat is not enough to convice, Rush uses a thirty piece string section on "Manhattan Project." But Power Windows is much more than the instrumental music, it is also clever lyrics which sets the music ofRush apart from the rest of today's contemporary rock groups. "The Big Money" tells ofhow money has dehumanized society to the point where money has taken control of man. "Marathon" describes the glory and pain of running a long run. 
Ifthere is a song that stands out above the rest, "Manhattan Project" is that song. Telling ofman's quest for the atom bomb, it relates a dis· quieting vision ofthe consequences ofmaking the bomb. 
All ofthe brightest boys. To play with their biggest toys ­
More than they bargained for . .. The cut provides a haunting and thought provoking image ofthe 
·"CCJQowettg fptt aQQ occ:ogio~g 
Come in and Browse 

327 Lincolnway 232-3354 
the Student Activities Board presents: 
against all odds 
November 20th and 21st 7:00, 9: 15, and 11:30 p.m. $1.50 Hall ofEngineering 
Cheers to the three Canadians who comprise Rush. Geddy Lee is at his best here with his tight vocals. The talented Alex Lifeson gives an excellent account for himselfon guitar and Niel Peart's drums are par excellence on this album. Also to be congratulated is sound en­gineerJimbo Burton, who brings out the best in Rush's music, and Andy Richards, who wrote anum­ber ofintriguing synthesizer ar­
rangements. 

Power Windows is a work ofart made by,three talented rock artists and it is their best since their live album Exit ... Stage Left. 
So ifyou want an album of vintage rock to add to your collec­tion, Power Windows is the album that will increase your music col­lection's value. This is the Chateau de Rock that you won't mind storing in your cellar ofrock clas­sics. 

\\Classics
\\ ~ ***j (out of four) 
This collection is an invaluable guide to the '60s music. Each album is appropriately titled to reflect the genre it represents. The collection's titles are British, Electric, Folk, Soul, and Surf. 
Well known hit songs generally make up the albums. Occasionally, a rare song or rendition ofa song will pop up though. Surfcontains "I Live For The Sun" by the Sunrays. The Sunrays were a young California British covers the English '60s 
music scene quitewell through its 
balance ofearly pop hits and later 
artistic songs.JCI decided to omit 
the Beatles from British so that 
lesser known groups such as the 
Fortunes could be included. 
Dance works its way through the '60s dance styles from the early Beatlesque rock-pop of"Lies" by the Knickerbockers to the soulful "Rescue Me" by Fontella Bass. Some of Dance's highlights are Mitch Ryder's "Detroit Medley," the Spen­cer Davis Group's "I'm A Man," and Drum" by the Stone Poneys, "Good Morning, Starshine" by Oliver,.and "Coming Into Los Angeles" by Arlo Guthrie. 
Mellow is probably the best compiled album in the series as every song belongs on this volume. The other albums contain at least one song each that does not fit in, unlike Mellow. 
The sound quality on these al­bums is extremely good consider­ing the age ofsome ofthe master tapes these songs come from. The 
·­

TWELVE EASY ROCKIN' HITS OF THE SIXTIES 
entire collection is also available on well. In addition to the '60s,JCI has high quality chrome cassettes. just begun an excellent series of 
Whether you enjoy a particular '50s anthologies. Hopefully, JCl will genre of'60s music or are a fan of continue digging through the vaults the whole era, Baby Boomer Clas­ofrecord companies and will sics · The Sixties will serve you release more series albums. 
ANDREW HUGHES 
features writer 

T 
he success of the film "The Big 
Chill" has brought new meaning 
to the term 'Baby Boomer.' The 
soundtrack to that film contained 
nearly 20 songs indicative ofthe 
wide range ofmusical styles that 
came out ofthe '60s. Now the 
people atJeito Concepts Inc., a 
division ofWarner Brothers Com­
munications, have compiled ten 
albums containing 12 tracks each of 
some ofthe '60s best songs under 
the group heading Baby Boomer 
Classics -The Sixties. 
Records 


,_..~Baby Boomer 
group produced by the Beach Boys father, Murray Wilson, after his sons fired him. 
Ike and Tina Turner's version of Creedence Clearwater Revival'~ classic "Proud Mary" is included on Dance. British contains Marianne Faithful's excellent rendition ofthe Rolling Stones' hit "As Time Goes By." 
British covers the early English Invasion with such hits as Manfred Mann's "Do Wah Diddy Diddy," Peter and Gordon's "A World Wit· hout Love," (penned by Paul McCartney), and the Kinks' "You Really Got Me."'The Small Faces' "Itchykoo Park" spotlights British psychedelia. English folk star Donovan is represented by "Catch The Wind." 
Eddie Floyd's "Knock On Wood," which Eric Clapton recently covered. Dance stays away from songs about dance crazes, which were very popular during the early 
years ofthe decade. Only 

Headhunter and the Cannibals' 
"Land ofa Thousand Dances" which 
is a survey of then popular dances is 
included in that vein. 

Mellow is one ofthe best volumes in the collection. Such well known easy listening hits as "California Dreamin'" by the Mamas and Papas, "Brown Eyed Girl" by Van Morrison7"Turn, Turn, Turn" by The Byrds, and "Aquarius" by the 5th Dimension are included. Counter balancing the well known hits are the lesser known, but equally enjoyable, "A Different 
R <) C K N 


ironwood liquors 
1725 NORTH IRONWOOD ROAD SOUTH BEND. INDIANA 46635 ,2191272·7144 





 
 
Thursday, November 21, 1985-page 6  -7  
The Bomb Peace efforts garner Nobel Peace Prize SCOIT BEARBY cities in the United States and the featun!s staffwriter U.S.S.R. Currently, his estimate is that both sides have 8,000 weapons Flvc: years ago 196'5 alumnus Dr. which can be sent at any time:. The James Muller, two American calculations show that there are colleagues, and three Russian doc· more: weapons than are necessary tors had a prescription for the to destroy the world. nuclear arms race: stop the build-up While at Notre Dame:, Muller was of nuclear weapons before it encouraged by his fither, alumnus becomes out ofcontrol. Paul Muller to study Russian. While Together, they formed the Inter· serving as the first American medi·  Former Notre Dame student and professor involved differently ~ 'J ~~·· . "'"'  

national Physicians for the Preven· cal excahnge student to study in tion of Nuclear War. Even though Russia in 1967, Muller was able to they knew their organization had make valuable connections with historical potential, they had no Russian doctors who also opposed resources other than their deter· the nuclear arms build-up. mlnation to make the world aware Muller said "by 1978, the arms of the danger of nuclear weapons. race was going crazy." He decided ·,
";_.(···
./"
A.o; the years progressed, the to see if Russian physicians would ., 
~-. ·"·'' IPPNW spread its message and now publicly oppose the nuclear ~.,«~ " . boasts over 13'5,000 physicians in policies which the United States 41 countries. and the U.S.S.R. were adopting at 
APPbolo 

Dr. james Muller receives Nobel Peace Prize. 
Earlier this month their world the time. Muller and his American influence became apparent as the co-founders received a letter from Norwegian Nobel Committee the Russians in October, 1979 been. He cites 1963 graduate Dr. Ofthe twenty original people Now with the: recognition by the: namc:d the group as the 1986 Nobel agreeing to the concept ofthe John Pastore as "making a similar who helped the organization offthe Nobel Committee and the Peace Prize: winner. They were IPPNW. contribution to mine" and has ground, one-quarter were Notre S225,000 prize, Muller hopes the selected over a record 99 ap· Since that time Muller was spend· succeeded Muller as secretary of Dame graduates. Muller believes organization will have added plicants, including President Ronald ing an average of40 hours a week in the IPPNW, after Muller took a the involvement by alumni is be· success in raising public conscious· Rc:agan and Elic: Wiesel, the promoting the organization, while leave ofabsence in order to devote cause: "Notre Dame gives a good ness on the nuclear issue, while chronicler of the holocaust. raising a family and continuing his more time to his family and his technical background for under· stopping governments from 
The organization represents what work as acardiologist at Harvard research. standing the problem. Students "playing nuclear chess." Muller Muller calls the "abolistionist view­University. He continued his efforts Alumnus Dr. David Grier, current develop the attitude that no knows it will be a lifelong struggle point on the nuclear arms race." He despite sacrificing time with his Brown University medical school problem is too large. Many people but feels the world does not have explained that unlike: the arms family and having Harvard tell him dean, also served as one of the first believe the nuclear problem is more than 30 to 40 years ifpresent control viewpoint, thc:ir organiza· "his future at Harvard is limited" officers in the group. hopeless, but Notre Dame students policies continue. tlon Is calling for a stop to the because he did not have the time to Muller added that world-famous do not. Finally, there is the C~is­production of nuclear arms, as well have his cardiology research neurosurgeon Dr. Joseph Evans, tian sense ofunderstanding your Muller feels governments are still a.' an end to all nuclear testing. He published. played a great role in getting South enemy and trying to find a common operating under the: "bow and added that "arms control means The organization continued to American physicians involved, ground to work with them." arrow and bullet principle · the keeping a.'> many weapons as you make headway in making the before his death. Muller also appreciates the sup· more you have, the safer you will can while bargaining." dangers of nuclear weapons known. Muller involved his father in the port Notre Dame President Father be." He: counters that nuclear 
'lbe reasons behind the Muller views the IPPNW as having a group, who helped make the or· Theordore Hesburgh has given him weapons arc: so destructive:, this physicians' desire to make their hand in the recent Soviet agree· ganization more legitimate by and the IPPNW. Hc:sburgh wrote principle doesn't apply. Muller feels goals reality are simple medical ment to stop nuclear testing. He having the American Medical As· two letters to Muller when the the: public is much more: aware of 
facts. Muller said if a nuclear bomb explained that one month after the sociation say physicians should organization was in its early stages the dangerous situation, saying "any were to hit South Bend, the: city, physicians' group set the policy to educate about nuclear weapons. saying he is "fully with you in your grade school child knows there: are Notre: Dame, and the surrounding have nuclear testing halted, the Before the: backing ofthe AMA, the wonderful efforts." He told Muller too many weapons." area would be destroyed. Russians did also. organization was not considered the group had a large task as "there Muller is planning to visit Notre 
According to Muller, ap· Muller views other Notre Dame legitimate and was even thought to are too many (people)who are Dame: on December 4, although he proximately 300 nuclear weapons alumni as being just responsible for be a Soviet sympathizing group by blindly promoting the nuclear race has not worked out details ofthe would be needed to destroy all the organization's success as he has some. for extinction." visit as ofyet. 
I

Eye-opening Hiroshima mission 
column ofsmoke reached into the sky with supervised the construction ofNotre Dame's 
AMY STEPHAN 
flame churning out ofthe top. third electrostatic generator. He was named 
f«Jtun!S writer 
"Presently a white cloud emerged from the dean ofthe College ofScience in 1967, a . 
top ofthe column and pushed 40,000 feet position he held until his retirement from the n August 6, I945 a group ofAmerican straight up .... Acloud ofdust arose from a University in 1979. During his tenure as B-29 bombers flew over Hiroshima, and circle we estimated to be three feet in dean, he: oversaw the completion of the 
the: atomic age: began. Amidst the: group of diameter. Nothing was visible through it. It Galvin Ufe Science Center and plans for a bombers was a plane carrying four civilians, was impenetrable." new chemical research building (Stepan including a Notre Dame scientist, Bernard Although Waldman called the blast "an Chemistry Hall). Waldman. awesome spectacle" in the Tribune article, Although W aidman said in a 1946 South 
Waldman joined the Notre Dame faculty in his was not a sight-seeing mission. One Bend Tribune article that the use of the: 
193H, where he became involved in research objective of the scientific party was to atomic bomb inJapan was warranted be· in atomic disintegration and X-rays.ln 1943 measure the blast, and Waldman's work in cause ofthe American lives saved that would he was granted a leave: ofabsence to join New Mexico had involved preparing in­have been lost in aJapanese invasion, he: 
Dr. Bernard Waldman 

other research scientists on what is known as strumentation to record the pressure wave of recognized the threat posed by the techno!· "'11te Manhattan Project." the explosion. ogy he helped to develop. could be freely interchanged. But this can't He: was present at the first test ofthe Because the measurements taken from the "Control of the national atomic energy be a one-way deal. It must be: an interchange atomic bomb on July 16, 194 5 at plane would be subject to turbulence, a program should be entrusted to civilian · not in the fullest meaning of the word." Alamogordo, N.M. and later flew to the pressure-measuring device was attached to a military· direction 'if the nation is to avoid W aidman, one ofa select group who saw Tinian island, where he joined three other parachute and dropped into the area. An FM decay and possible disaster,'" Waldman said firsthand the devastation humans could American civilians in an army observation radio transmitted the data to the plane, in a 1946 Chicago Daily Times article. create, seemed in 1946 grimly prophetic in plane with the group ofB-29s that dropped where it was displayed on an oscilloscope He opposed offering the atomic bomb to his vision ofthe coming nuclear arms race:: the bomb over Hiroshima. that had been calibrated with a TNT explo· other nations in an article in The: Guardian of "We: actually arc: in an armament race right Waldman described his experience to the sion. These measurements indicated that the Uttle Rock, Ark. "The nations ofthe world, now and will be as long as the military has South Bend Tribune upon his return to Notre Hiroshima bomb exploded with the force of 
through the United Nations Organization, control. The disturbing thing about it is that, Dame: "We wore welder's glasses to protect about 20,000 TNT bombs. must set up a workable basis for cooperation. in the long run, this nation could not win out our eyes from he: first tJash and glare, then we After the war, Waldman continued his When this is done atomic energy information in any such armaments race. Eventually, we: took them offand watched as a cylindrical career at the Notre Dame, where in 1956 he as well as all other scientific information must lose." 
-~-~----------­
The Observer Thursday, November 21, 1985-page 8 
Sports Briefs 
The ND Charity Bowl to raise money for injured student Kevin Hurley will take place Sunday at 1 p.m. in Notre Dame Stadium. An all-star team ofND women flag football players will play an all-star team ofSMC players at 1 p.m., followed by the men's inter­hall football championships. Cost of the event is II, and students may purchase tickets at 12:30 p.m. the day ofthe game at Gate 14. -
Tbe Obseroer 

NVA white water river rafting will be held over spring break of 1986. For those interested there will be an in­formational meeting tonightat 7 p.m. in the Football Auditorium of the ACC. For more information call the NVA office.-Tbe Obseroer 
WVFI Sports, AM-64, will bro3dcast tonight's ND-Lake Forest hockey game at 7:20 p.m. with Joe Malvezzi and Chuck Freeby. Friday night, Pete Pranica and Frank Mastro will call the NO­St. Joseph's (Ind.) basketball game beginning at 7:50p.m.. On Satur­day, WVFI will broadcast the ND-ISU football game beginning with "The Irish Today" at 11 :45 a.m .. Pete Pranica and Kelly Brothers will call the action. -Tbe Obseroer 
An NVA hydrorobics sample class will take place tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the Rolfs Aquatic Center. Non-swimmers are welcome to partake in the water aerobics. For more information call the NVA office. -Tbe Obseroer 
The ND water polo team will hold a meeting tonight at 6:30 p.m. in the Rolfs Aquatic Center. Yearbook photos will be taken at that time. For more information call Tom O'Reilly at 283-3588.-Tbe Obseroer 
ACC open skating will be available for all students, faculty, and staff immediately following tonight's Notre Dame-Lake Forest hockey game. Game time is at 7:30p.m. and skates will be available for a rental fee. -Tbe Obseroer 
A peprallyfor the ND football team will be held tomorrow at 7 p.m. in Stepan Center. Guest speakers will include Allen Pinkett, Mike Larkin, coach Mal Moore and Head Coach Gerry Faust. -Tbe Obseroer 
SMC co-ed volleyball tourney registrations 
are due tomorrow at the Angela Athletic Facility. Play will start this Monday evening and continue until Dec. 19. For more information call the Angela Facility at 284-5549 or Karla at 284-4354. -Tbe Ob­seroer 
SMC Turkey-Trotregistrations must be turned in with the U entry fee tomorrow by noon at the Angela Athletic Facility. Races will include a 3-mile run, a 5-mile run, and a 1 1 /2-mile walk. · 
Tbe Obseroer 

Laufenberg signed by Washington 
WASHINGTON -The Washington Redskins re-signed former Indiana University quarterback Babe Laufen­berg yesterday to serve as a backup toJay Schroeder. 
Schroeder became the Redskins' starting quarterback in the second quarter of Monday night's game against the New York Giants after Joe Theismann suffered a compound leg fracture. Theismann, 36, who broke the tibia and fibula bones in his lower right leg, was listed in fair condition at Arlington Hospital in Virginia. 
Laufenberg, 25, returned from a Mexican vacation and checked in at Redskin Park Wednesday after being contacted by General Manager Bobby Beathard. 
The Obsen•er :'IOorn· Damt• offin·. Jm·arnl on rht· third floor of lah>Ttunt· Studt·nr <..-ntt·r. ~<Tt'P" cla"ifkd ~dn·rllsin~t from') am unlll-< p.m .. \tond~' rhrough frtd.l\ The Ohserr•er !'>dinl \tan·, offit'l'. lot art·d on th.-1h1rd floor of lla~t~tar Colll'j:l' <.l'nll'r. atTl'P" l'la"ifkd• from I .2_~0 p m unlll -~ p m . """· dav rhough l'rida\ Dt·~dllnt· tl>r nt·xr·d~' l'la,..til'd• i' .~ p.m. All t·la"ifkd, mu•l ht· pr.-pa•d. l'lthn in pt·"on or h\ nidi! <harJ.:<: i• I 0 <.:t'nls pn fht: ,·harat··
Classifieds 
r.-rs r dav 

LOST IN MAOELEVA -A PURPLE Going to Columbua Ohio for Thlllklgiv­NEED 2 GA'S FOR LSU GAME. CALL Sue from LeM1111 •Pleue ell me again! I Hon<nble Crazy One, II you knew lllylh· FOLDER CONTAINING ALL MY ing? HELEN3824. want to meet you. John ing of eexual peychology you'd know that I MANAGEMENT ASSIGNMENTS IN­Take me with you. 
lhould derive no k-~r• than to CLUDING FINAL EXAMII!I IF FOUND Wlllh-_.-.... Clwla 2862 . 
NOTICES 

2 LSU GA'S FOR SALE BlOB 1222 be manhandled by thoee MEATY boya. PLEASE CALL LIZ 284-4102 PLEASE NewAIIIu-by Ecatecy d the NAUGHTIEST kind! 
HaP IT IS VERY IMPORTANT I GET Kunyet. Tae Kwon Worn111Marilion 
TYPING AVAIL.A81.E Need LSU Student Ticket for a very Depeche Mode THIS BACK!!!!! Help! I need4 LSU GAS. CIIMikeX1145
287-40112 beeutifullady. ell Paul at 3510 
Ali• 

NEW OIIILEAJII TAILGATERIII LOST • BURGUNDY GIRL'S EYE YOU CAN HILP liE GET HOllE 
Yll 

6 LSU GAll for Ule Beat Offer Cll Seen Everyone from the New OrleaN .••
Fredde Jllcklon

GLASSES BETWEEN THE GROTIO or, you-tum the.,.... lhould llop the New Orleane Club "cet
TYPING CALL CHID 214-1117 2075 
Eddie Murphy 

BUS STOP AND FLANNER. IF FOUND l'lldlnaedecl to WA8H., D.C. perly!" Plenty of food and Wquid refrelh­PLEASE CALL THEREBAAT284-4128. for T11¥1"1 ......._ 
and lola morel PRO-TYPE Over15 yMra ap. Specializ­FOR SALE: Two LSU GA'a. Cll Ma-lhi 
menl. II the lrleh wtn, you LSU f-.. JohnUot-7412 
ONLYM•• 
invited IIIIo!!!

11284-5019.
Ing In IIUdenl ~. law ~-d• Rock du Lac, lire! floor LaFortune
FOUND: VARIOUS JACKETS WITH ~...... ...,,__ 277-5833 "KENOSHA', "ILL. STATE', ''T.T. LAWN DESPARATEL Y NEED RIDE TO IN­SERVICE', AND "MALDEN CATHOLIC". Need ride to Cleveland area (exit10 off of MY VISITING BROTHER SAID TO ME OPLS MON 11/26 CALL MICHELLE
CLAIM AT LOST AND FOUND, Ohio Turnpike) for Th•nklgiving. PI­TDKIAIO 
"GET ME 2 LSU TIXS OR I'LL KILL YA" 4054
LAFORTUNE. call Colin 2371. blank tepee
PLEASE HELP SAVE THIS SCARED 
ONLY 21or $3.98 ·························· 
SIS! CALL 284-4201. WANTED: ONE IIIINNEIOTA ITATE
LOST!!! 14k. gold rope chain WANTEO:TUOORING IN BASIC While eupply 1uta 
FLAG TO UIE FOil A PRIIINTATIDNI
brecelet,pouibly in Art bldg. pleMe ell CHEMISTRY.MAKE AN EASY EXTRA Rockdu Ulc 
CALL IHIIILEY AT 28-UOI ·ET·
277-1256 THANKS! BUCK AND HELP SOMEONE 
WEEN IAII14PIII PLEAIEIII 
OUT.CALLALEX,EVENINGS,28~.

EXPDT TYPING AIMeE. CALL 
Ski Colorado over Spring Break!!! Stey on 

..._ COKEJI, 2SI-7001. PERSONALS Once upon a time, a bunch of heat.,..
Need Ride to Cincinnati from 11 /26-27 the llopee of Breckenridge Min. Trip in­Loet: My father loll hie 0~ watch -• gelling heated, looking to party.
Tom 1441 cludee elope aide condominium, ih ticketa
TYPING ~ere on campue on the s.turday when they -eteken for • ride by the sa
(for Copper Mtn, Keyatone, A-Buin, and 

277-4041 of the Milliaaippi game, November 9. The trouble ia that we get so good af Trib."S...Iid'lheytddthedriver."Cin"
I need a ride to Cleveland for Thanklgiv­Breckenridge). and ahullle to Min. All for 
Thie watch hu great pereonat value to !elk?" heUked."Noway. -·reCatholic." him. It hM a leather bend. with hie com­FREE PICKUP I DELIVERY telling ouraelv11 we won't uae our reel
ing!! I wiM Ieiva either Tueedey or Wed­$249!!! Organizational Mtg. Monday Nov. 
polll/lfl thai alter a while we think we "Where to?' "Iraq"' "Why Iraq? Do you

needey and wiM come t.ck Friday, 25 Contact Joe Mdkide(1236) or Jeffpany'• in11Uie, WNL, on ita f-. The c.l'l know how m111y 20 rninut11 that ia from 
Saturday or Sunday! Wll Share •­PWker(3419) for place and other delaill-ch IIIIo hM hie neme engraved on it in here?" "Yeah, but -need to gat 101111 
~!Uu2955

ecript: John K. er.ke. PleMI ell 234-
honey from II'W!IO Betty Clll blow chow.· 
TOYS FOR TOTS NIGHT!! Thuredey

0363 or 284-5236 and Mk for RoM H you h.-.e lilY info about thia watch. Thllllk WOllEN WOllEN WDMP WOllEN
Ride needed to AKRON for Turkey Day n9lt, November 21 at the SENIOR on Tu.,.26 after 12:1511 ell Moe at 4173 ALUMNI CLUB. All proceed~ at the door
you! OAR HOUSE: COLO BEER & LIQUOR. Order your QPA .... loiMyl bell ... 
go to the TOYS FOR TOTS program.

CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N., 1 '-your ,.,. two ln111*, your ... 
S$SSSSSSSSUSSSSSSSSIFYOU C'mon out and help the Semper Fidelia
PSYC CLUB MEETING 7:00PM NOV .25 LOST! A grey S-ch with a biKk f­BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
ARE GOING TO BE AROUND DURING Club put a emile on the facee of the kidl of -·and your QPA. Ther -In
LAFORTUNE AUO. OFFICER ELEc­end two -chgaurdl. Pouibly at the red, lllue, laid or pink on white, 111ao11, TIONS, TAU< ON STRATEGIES FOR Rockne Memorial. Wu given to me by my or y.low ~c. 4GO ....to • rGII. Cal
CHRISTMAS BREAK AND WOULD LIKE South Bend thia Chriatmu. 
Earn SSS for all rhoee bookl you didn't GETTING INTO GRAD SCHOOL, AND Hometown Honey and hM great ...,. 1-lloo-GPA-TAGI and order !o*y.
TO EARN SOME EXTRA S$$$SS. THE read!! PANDORA'S wil buy your ueedPHONE/ MAIL PROGRAM IS JUST THE 

timentel value. 1.JirVI r-.1 offered!ll Pleue cal Eric at 283 2558 QPA QPA QPA QPA QPA REFRESHMENTS PLACE FOR YOU! PARTICIPATE IN bookl M-F 11-4. or we e111 help you find a o.-.. YOU make me happy. Remember VIlAor IIC accep!M. No COO..,.__ 
ueed book for a clue. We're open M-F 11· "UNBELIEVABLE!!' Love Ya ·K. 
CALLING ALUMNAE OF SMC IN AN EX­

6, SAT & SUN 1Q-5. PANDORA'S Ia op­FOUND: 14K GOLD BRACELET IN THE 
CITING FUND RAISING VENTURE. 

poeite CORBY'S at937 South Bend Ave. 
IPEAKER: GAilY CAIIUIOSMC STUDENTS ONLY. CALL MARTHA LIBRARY. TELL ME WHAT FLOOR AND SORIN HALL TALENT SHOW "SUMMER JOBS AND CAREERS INOR PAT AT 5351 TOOAYIIITHE DATE LOST TO CLAIM. 4364. 

LOST/FOUND I 

SENIORS! HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES SORIN HALL TALENT SHOW 
WASHINGTON D.C.' Work ••vofunt-in eeveral U.S. citi11. TONIGHT SORIN HALL TALENT SHOW Application: Mary Ann Roemer, 7949. 7-8PM SATURDAY 10:00-0N FRONT PORCH 
LO.T Need ride to Nor1hetn Chicago for BEFORELSU
LIBRARY AUDITORIUM · One women·a PuiMr wau:h Thanklglving leaving Wed. Call Megan Appicati.,... for AN Ta.TAL EX·
FOR RENT

(llblllck) 284-5188 ECUT1VE COII..TTeE poeiti.,... •• ,....cMll254/f found available in theetudenlgovernmenl office DANCE WITH YOUNG LIFE!!! YOUNG LIFE!!! REMEM­on the MCOnd floor of Ul Fortune. Anyone THE IIHYTHIIIIETHODI BER YOUNG LIFE?? INTERESTED IN HOUSE FOR 2ND SEMESTER. 5­
intereeted In working for the zanieat group IT'S ONLY NATURAL! HELPING A LOCAL GROUP?? CALL Found: cer key belonging lo 111 Audl. HM BORMS, $125/MO/PERSON. 1 MI. NO. on campualhould apply by December 2. CHRISX1074
FRIDAY NIGHT beenl8ken to LOlli Found. Ul Fortune. FOR SALE Any quellione? Call Kendra Erven •t289-!0:30PM
OF CAMPUS. CALL 674~595 AFTER 5 P.M. 
4417 GOOD LUCK TO ALL N.D. NOVICE
CHAUTAUQUAH.-.e you loll 111 u,..,.. lately? Did you CREWS IN PHILLY. FROM ALL OF US 
IMve it on a lrly in the dning hal? Wll Nice furnilhed homee for nex11Choo1 y-Original French Perfume now avlileble WHO 010 NOT MAKE THE TRIP. 
•oK~AU. 
then you're in lucl<. Cll Anne at 1320 to 2n-3604 on campue! 3.4 ft. oz. only $18. lmpor1ed 
Si•lSVGAo ATTENTION EYEIIYONE: IPECIAL claim it. directly from Fr~~~ce. Cll 272-5206 t.t­Keen~~~ 4-N Roommet11 of the Week
EDITION TD YOUII PHONE DIIIEc­HOUSE FOR 2ND SEM. 3 BORM, -6-8pm end Ilk for • product TORY, AS 1M-FOIIIIAllON LilTED II JEFF "the CUe CkJb Shayeter" SHAY 
LOST: 1 cleW g1Ma detlgling hew!· GREAT SHAPE, STUDENT NBHO demonatration. and JOHNNY "The Mongrel" WEYKAMP Call Jay at 2081 INCORIIECT: .UNEK Heidi Ann ...... 1FY ern.pec~ ..,;ng on 11/14; aomewh­NEAR CAMPUS CALL 2n-0966 AFTER 
219 Breen-Phillipe ............................ 1275 

HUNGRY? Call YELLOW SUBMARINE
wound ArchlteciUre bldg, eou1h dining 8P.M. '76 TOYOTA WAGON 4-CYLINOER, 4 Philadelphia! Need ride for 2 or to lhwe
WALMI Kathleen Ter-..................W.

at 272-HIKE. Delivery hours: 5pm-12pm
hal, or atadium lot. If found pleMe ell SPEED. SOME RUST, RUNS VERY rentel on brk. Cell Anne or Tammy-284­
219 ar...,.Philipe............................ 1275 

Monday-Thrulday: 5pm-2am Friday:
Stupid at 272-3379. Great ...rimen181 WELL PRICE:$750 277-5294 4385
PLEAIE ADO THtl TO YOUfl Dillie­

3pm-1am Saturday: and 4pm-1()pm Sud­value. Thlllkl. EVENINGS. 
TOllY, 011 Pa.TNEAll YOUII PHONE! Help!! Oeeparately need ride to Min­
WANTED nay. 

FOUND: A woolen cap on thelidewlllk In neapolle for Thlllklgiving Breakl WIU
NO! It can't be true! The rerum of BigNeed ride to PITTIIIUMH for break!

front d the Noire 0-POll Olftce. Mey lhwe 8lCj)<IMII. Cll Mwlha at 284­
MAC!

Oonna2279
be ct.lmed In Room 8-19 Fitzpalrick or by 5019. «**ing 239-6381. Need ri<*w to Allante wea 11/27-12/1. TICKETS 
MB-WELCOME TO COLUMBIA EEECll Ed 232-8230. 

Y11, you too can join THE MIKE BLoc­
THE SCARLET PIMPERNEL BY ... BEEP HIGHSCHOOL JACKET LOST: VERY, Need help-IlkSt. Jude HER FAN CLUB! JuetMnda8x101!k*y
BEEP "PRESSURE' -COOL! THRASHED VERY, VERY SENTIMENT ALl! pictured HELPOON'TLEAVEMESTRANOEOAT LSU GAll FOR SALE.272-6306 and reeume to: Preaident Mike Blocher at 
OUT THE EAGLE HAS LANDED HAPPY 

New York -e on t.ck-"CHRIS' on SMC! NEED RIDE TO CINCINNATI FOR UVE IIWCE IPIINGITEEN lAPEl 406 Cetrol Hal. Thia pubic Hrvice an­
19THII LOVE KUS&MOE front-"12'on lleeva If you return It, I THANKSGIVING BREAK PLEASE CALL Need Two LSU GA'a or Student Tlckell FROM ALL TOURS FOR SALE. CALL nouncement illponaored byV.P. (Kathy) ANNE AT 284-5409 WILL SHARE IN EX· 
promiM 11 make tt wor1h your while ell John at 4073 2011 FOR INFO. YO IIUNNY, Only 1 day left! Here •e Secretary (Uu) P.R. Director (Kelly) and THANK YOU I Chrie 1453 the rnermer (Amy)
PENSES 
101111 thoughte for the day: -...and juetWILL PAY M aUCKI FOII2 QA'I TO 
Juatlul night I -reminded d juat how how m111y buttone h.-.e you colecled? ­LOST: PAIR OF GLASSES. GOLD ME­THE ND VI. IT. JDHPHIIIAIKET­bed it hed 90t1en and jull how aick I hed 10, tel ue about your nocturnal habita thai Coech: go wild, go crazy, go out of control 
I NEED A RIDE TO YOUNGSTOWN, 
TAL FRAME AND SLIGHTLY TINTED. OHIO FOR 2 PEOPLE, CALL 2722 IIAU. GAllE THII FIIDAYII CALL in Phily!! Uve the immortal wordl of
become. Femmee meke you aleep eo much during the day! • WERE IN A SOFT, BROWN CASE. IF ..KEAT1171 Rocky "Unleae you believe in you!Mif,
meythefleMof •thoUIIIId cemele... -I'm FOUND, PLEASE CALL 3404. THANK­WANTEO:Ride to MMa.·11/24/85, lillY nothing ie reel." Beat of luck, we'M miM-.ed! Luv, LOll Sheep, ero­

YOU. lriendl lrlveling lo N.D. for the L.S.U. Need two (2) B-8alf GA'a 10 St. Joaeph'a PLEASE HELP ME. I need a ride to the Woman, Me and you!I Your two happy campera ..S and K
Lone Roomie, Sexygame who can teke me horne on Sunday? 

game. Cllx1484. WINDY CITY for Thanklglving Break. Wll Zippy
FOUND A WHITE YARN CAP. SUND.\Y Cll Paulat2n-11113 Arlo need rtde beck 
lhere ex~ etc. Cll ANNE 284-JOHN JOE HEARN LOVES JOHN JOE EVENING IN FRONT OF DILLON HALL. 10 N.D. after Thlllklgiving NEED TWO LSU GA'S 283-4332 4083. HEARN LOVES JOHN JOE HEARN
LOGAN NEEOS TICKETS! LOGAN 1431 LOVES
CENTER NEEDS EXTRAt.sU TICKETS

RIDE/RIDERS TO LEXINGTON FOR 
THANK YOU aT. JUDE. dJ 
TO TAKE KIDS TO THE GAME ON 

LOST: emil cameo ring on Monday THANKSGIVING. DON'T MAKE ME EAT REGINA HALL RAFFLE 
SATURDAY. TICKET COLLECTION AT 

11/18 -maybe in N.Oining Hll or BP. II TURKEY HERE. CALL MIKE, 1644 NEED LSU TIX.. 232-1468 after 3. THE BRIDE IS BACK!! For new raquelball equipment Wlllon r•
THE DINING HALLS THURSDAY AND found, PLEASE C111264 REWARD QUI! Wlilon tennil bill Volt beg Eklelon
ANYTIME. THANKS! 
FRIDAY NIGHTS. SEND A LOGAN KID I have 6 LSU GA'e for llle. Beat offeta. THE BRIDE IS BACKI! glove $100 value $1.00 each ticket or 6 for 
TO WATCH THE IRISH! LOST·ND ROUND METAL KEYCHAIN NEED RIDE TO CHICAGO THIS Eric 1527. $5.00 Cll Jennifer 284-4092 or Mety AND FOUR KEYS-SOMEWHERE IN EN­WEEKEND 11/22·11 /24 CALL JUDY 284-4081
THE BRIDE IS BACK!! 
I HAVE THE WHAM! SCARF AND THE GINEERING BlDG. CALL ANNE 277-283-3572 OR 284-4389 NEED 4 LSU GA(2 PAIR OK) $20EA 
MILLION DOLLAR CHECK. WHAT WILL 7566. CALL JIM 1605 YOU GIVE FOR THEM BOTH?? Dear Schnookuma; Looking forwwd to RIDE NEEDED TO U OF ILL NOV 22-24 
Fred and Selly Fever-CATCH IT! Thanklgiving dinner. but don't expect me LOST AT SMC • GOLD WOMEN'S 1885 CALL KATHY 4395(SMC) HELP! I NEED 2 ST JOE'S 8-BALL TIX to eat theetuffing. Love, me
LOGAN VOLUNTEERS: DANCEHIGH SCHOOL CLASS RING ON CALL2075 "You're eo uflly! Beby, what do you 
FRIDAY NIGHT 7:30-10:00. FOOTBALL 11/8/85 • GARNET STONE -INITIALS "'-e Mlp 11181 I need a ride to WD­

WANT FROM IIEI" -The new Violent HEY ANNE LINEHAN!! HAPPY 18TH CAB INSIDE -REWARD CALL CHERYL hington, D.C., for Thanklglving. c.n NEED LSU TICKET8-0A'S AND STU· Femmee album wil be releMed nex1 BIRTHDAY! MUCH LOVE, WHITI, M.S., 
REC AT 10:00 SATURDAY. SMC VAN 
PICKUP AT 7:10 FRIDAY AND 9:40

AT 284-50111 leeve lllytime. Cll PIUI at 1636. DENT CALL 277-o740 week. MALF&AIL.
SATURDAY. 

The Observer Thursday, November 21, 1985-page 9 

l"lle Oboerv~r/Pet~ U.:hca 

Notre Dame wide receiver Reggie Ward (83) is shown above tn action earlier tbis season against Michigan. Tbe sophomore is cur­rently second on tbe lrlsb squad wttb 20 receptions. ]obn Coyle features Ward tn bis story at rlgbt. 
A b I 0 g e n e s I• s Dance Collective 
.... 
presents ­D "Works In Progress" t:l 

Nov 23 (Sat) 7:00PM Nov 24 (Sun) 2:00PM Regina Hall Studio-SMC Admission: $1.00 
The Class of '87 
Gary Caruso, N.D. '73 Director of Legislation 
U.S. House of Representatives 
TONIGHT 7:00, Library Auditorium 
Topics to be covered include: congressional careers, preparing a resume, interviewing, and job search strategies 
Lochmandy Leasing & Rental, Inc. 
IINational Car Rentalow 
Weekend and Weekly Specials all year round. Need transportation to get on campus lor the weekend? check our low rates. Going on a long trip? We have weekly specials designed foro student's budget. 

One Way Rentals Available to over 1000 locations-at low unlimited mileage rates with no drop charges. Excellent way to get home for voca11on at reasonable prices. 
Conveniently Located at the 
We feature GM cars like this Buick Regal. 


Ward joins other Irish standouts, helps to strenthen receiving corps 
ByJOHN COYLE 
Sports Writer 

Although he is not very big, at 5­11 and 179 pounds; sophomore Reggie Ward has already proven that he is, indeed, a big play receiver. Ward has combined with fellow 
. classmate Tim Brown and senior Al­vin Miller to give Notre Dame one of the better receiving corps in the na­tion. 
It was not the number of recep­tions that Ward had in his freshman year, but rather, the length of each that impressed the Irish coaches and fans. The talented receiver made the most of his six catches last year to lead the team in average yards per catch (32.3 yards). 
The Alumni Hall resident made two very important catches for 81 yards in the South Carolina game, but the highlight ofWard's freshman season came against Missouri. Ward hooked up with quarterback Steve Beuerlein for a 74-yard bomb and a touchdown, which earned him a game ball in the Irish locker room after the big victory. Having played in every game but Purdue, Ward was one of only five freshmen to earn a 
, monogram last year. A native of long Beach, Calif., the gifted athlete finished his career at long Beach Poly High School with 63 receptions for over 1,200 yards and 15 touchdowns. With 4.45 speed in the 40-yard dash, Ward was the object of several recruiters' desires. Luckily for the Irish, he decided to attend Notre Dame. 

"Notre Dame is a good academic school with a lot of national ex­posure. A lot of top players have come here to be part ofa great tradi­tion. Also, I knew Steve Beuerlein from high school and I liked him and knew I'd have a chance to work with a good quarterback, " explained the dependable sophomore. 
Ward said that the transition from high school to college was not overly difficult. The hardest part, he believes, was becoming acquainted with more sophisticated defenses and competing against bigger and faster players. 
"It's a lot different from high school in many ways. In high school, I was usually wide open, but here I often have to slide into a hole in the defense to get to the ball," noted Ward. "On the college level, it takes a lot more concentration because you have to read coverages and make adjustments in your patterns." 
Due to Milt Jackson's withdrawal from the university on account of 
health problems and the graduation 
of Joe Howard, Ward has moved 
from the flanker position to split 
end, where he is a starter. He cur­
rently is second on the team in receiving with 20 receptions for 285 yards. His best performances have come against Michigan State and Air Force, where he caught 5 passes for 64 yards, and 4 passes for 57 yards, respectively. 
The outgoing Ward finds life in of­ten snowy South Bend different from life in almost always sunny California. 
"I'm cold when a lot of other people are warm. I usually have to wear a lot ofextra clothes when l go outside. I had seen snow before, when I went up to the mountains in northern California but l never had to walk to class in it," explained Ward. 
Ward said that he does not regret coming to Notre Dame at all, despite the team's lack of success. The op­timistic Ward believes the Irish will bounce back and overcome the dis­appointments ofthe past. 
"It's been an up-and-down season," says Ward "but like my mom always said, 'You have to take the good with the bad.' " 

Lindbergh buried in native land; number most likely will be retired 
EASY RIDER 
TO AND FROM CHICAGO'S O'HARE EVERY ZHOURS EVERY DAY 
United Limo
~tllfUI ~ 
lllfli, 
~..ii~IUhiiiHI 
10844 McK'"Iey Hwy Osceola 

674-6993 ~ ,~ IIIII "IIIII
''I 

I ~F~ ·.~ t 11110 R lfl 
'lllllllllllllllllr.l
~~~u~ ~g~! illllllllll IW11111111 eI · 
llllillllt -Hlllllll'tlltll II 
FOR ALL YOUR EYE CARE NEEDS­
COMPLETE EXAMS 
contacts, glasses ND/SMC students, F acuity and Staff Show Your 1.0. and Receive 
20 ·;.OFF GLASSES OR CONTACTS 
Excluding Specials 

ProfessionalVISion 
ASSOCIATES 
1341.Portage
1635 N.lronwood 

234-2400
2n-1161 

Martin's Shopping
South of U.S. 23 

Center 
The Flyers have retired the num­bers of former stars Bernie Parent and Bobby Clarke as well as the late player and coach Barry Ashbee, who died ofcancer. 
Parent, a former goalie and one of Lindbergh's childhood idols, and Clarke, the Flyers' general manager, both attended the funeral. 
Lindbergh's family, including his father Sigge and mother Anna-Usa, sisters Ann-Christine and Ann­Louise, his fiancee Kerstln Pietzsch, friends and fans attended the service. Some 80 flowered wreaths surrounded the white marble casket inside the church. 
Irish 
continuedfrom page 12 
edge to 22 points at the end of the first half behind Barlow's 26 first-half points on 12-of-14 shooting. 
"I was pretty happy with my per­formance," said Barlow. "I've been struggling a little, but I hit my first couple ofshots and I felt the rhythm. There are a few things we have to work on, and we'll get a lot better. But overall I thought we did a good job.'' 
The Irish continued to stretch the 
lead, gaining their largest advantage 
at 89-57 with 8:47 left in the game. 
The Yugoslavs cut 14 points off the 
lead in the next four minutes with 
the Irish starters on the bench. 
Phelps then put them back in for a 
few minutes, whereupon they 
quickly went on a 8-0 spurt to push 
the score up to 97-71. 
"(Smelt Olimpija) is really not a good rebounding team, so I can't be too encouraged about our perfor­mance in that department," said Phelps. "I really can't be too en­couraged about anything since they aren't that strong a team. Our first real test will come in two weeks against Indiana." 
But beating a team by 2 1 points isn't a bad place to start. And the Irish will get another chance to shine tomorrow night as they face an outmanned squad from St. Joseph's (Ind.) at 8 in the ACC. 
IRISH ITEMS -Sophomore guard Jeff Peters saw a bit of action in last night's game after tnlssing some iJractice time recently while recovering from a thigh contusion. 
As8oclatedPrcllll 

STOCKHOLM, Sweden -Pelle Lindbergh, a Philadelphia Flyers fan since his early teens, bought his favorite hockey team's jersey at 14 when touring Canada for the first time with a Swedish juvenile club. 
The No. 31 he wore as goalie for the Flyers until his death ten days ago after an auto accident in Some­rdale, N.J., is now likely to be retired and join three other retired hockey players' numbers in the Spectrum. 
"We haven't had an opportunity to discuss that yet," said Flyers Presi­dent Jay Snider yesterday after at­tending Lindbergh's funeral. 
"It depends on each team. It's something that we'll discuss after we get over this." 
The Observer Thursday, November 21, 1985-page 10 
Mattingly wins AL MVP award over Brett, Henderson and Boggs 
NEW YORK · First baseman Don Mattingly of the New York Yankees, who led the major leagues with 145 runs batted in this year, yesterday was named the American League's Most Valuable Player by the Baseball Writers Association ofAmerica. 
Mattingly received 23 first-place votes and five seconds for a total of 367 points in balloting by a 28­writer panel, two voters from each ofthe 14 league cities. 
Third baseman George Brett of the Kansas City Royals finished second with five firsts, 20 seconds and three thirds for 274 points. Mat­tingly and Brett were the only players named on all 28 ballots. Points are awardedon the basisof14 for a first-place vote, 9 for second, 8 for third, etc. 
Outfielder Rickey Henderson of the Yankees was third with 1 7 4 points, followed by Boston third 
Office 
continuedjrompage 12 
charge of the cheerleaders. 
• 
Joe Yonto has special football duties and works with Corrigan as a liaison to the football team and the administration. Road trips and game preparations are part of Yonto's function, and a natural ability for this veteran of Notre Dame football. 

• 
Mike Danch runs the opera­tions of the ACC and has the un­enviable job ofcoordinating various athletic events. 


A very important member ofCor­rigan's statl is assisstant athletic director Brian Boulac. Boulac has been at Notre Dame for 1 5 years, 13 as a football coach and recruiting coordinator and the last two in the 
A.D. office. Besides working with Petro in a student relation and Notre Dame representative capacity, Boulac, along with Corrigan, deals 
with the NCAA for the athletic department. 
baseman Wade Boggs, the batting champion, with 159 and first baseman Eddie Murray of Baltimore with 130. 
Pitcher Donnie Moore of Califor­nia (96), Toronto outfielders Jesse Barfield (88) and George Bell (84), Chicago outfielder Harold Baines (49), and Kansas City pitcher Bret Saberhagen, the Cy Young Award winner, (45)completed the top 10. 
Mattingly batted .324 with 35 home runs as the Yankees finished second in the AL east behind Toronto. He led the major leagues with 48 doubles · the first AL player to do that in successive seasons since Tris Speaker did it four straight years, 1920-23. His 370 total bases and 86 extra base hits also led the AL and his .995 fielding percentage was the bestin the league at his position. 
His 211 hits, second best in the AL, made Mattingly the first Yankees' player to have consecutive 200-hit seasons sinceJoe DiMaggio in 1936­
Acting as a sounding board for questions and an interpreter of regulations for the coaches, Boulac serves a go-between for the coaches and the NCAA. He also devotes sub­stantial time to Notre Dame's con­ference status in both men and women's sports, and works with both the admissions office and finan­cial aid office for student athletes and potential student athletes. 
While Boulac's role in regard to the NCAA directly affects the people of Notre Dame's athletic depart· ment, Corrigan has direct input into the NCAA itself. A member of NCAA administrative council, Corrigan represents the university on the governing body ofDivision I college sports. 
He also has input into the NCAA Division I basketball committee. This body is responsible for selec­tion of teams for the season-ending tournament, and for running the tournament at its various sites. 
Despite the public polarization of the football and basketball programs (the only two revenue producing 3 7 and the total was the highest for a Yankee since Red Rolfe had 213 in 1939. 
Mattingly, who won the AL bat· ting championship in 1984 when he hit .343, missed the Yankees' first 18 spring training games in 1985 after suffering a minor cartilage tear in his right knee and undergoing arthro­scopic surgery Feb. 22. He homered in his first exhibition at-bat, signall­ing the start ofwhatwouldbe a spec­tacular season for him. 
He had hittingstreaksof19 and 20 games, and hit two home runs in a game five times. He was second in the league with a .567 slugging percentage and second with 66 multiple-hit games. 
Willie McGee of the St. Louis Car­dinals was named the National League MVP earlier this week. Saber­hagen and Dwight Gooden of the New York Mets won the Cy Young Awards, which were announced last week. 
sports at Notre Dame), Corrigan has overseen the upgrading of the vol­leyball and wrestling programs, and has also brought a renewed commit· ment to varsity hockey. 
"I like to think our door is always open for coaches, students and stu­dent athletes," says Corrigan. "There is the potential for many problems, but as long as we don't get too excited or too depressed we can provide the advice and information our people need Everything is a challenge, and there are days when six or seven hours are spent on the phone and a certain amount of pressure builds up. 
"Our job requires calmness and sound, not emotional, decisions. I don't read the newspaper when things are tough and I tell the coaches not to. The visibility of Notre Dame creates an incredible interest in the athletic program. We think that's good and we're here to excel as students, student athletes, coaches, administrators, and as teams." 

'1i ami' Erasmus Books 
J "J!~ r Tu~~~~~~=e· 6 
·...--1 block south of Jefferson & Eddy 
Ueed a -•otpwt.t boob!t-••t.-w.-n:••d 
MakeksnaW)!
.......... 
•••••• r1.
CAR RENTAL 

Snappy Car Rental offers you Unlimited Miles Low Daily Rental Rates 
...,.."'.'""  $26.95-29.95  
INDIANA  Lincoln Town Cars Chrysler Fifth Avenues Ford L TD's/Tempos  South Bend (119)177-6600  

Chevy Citations 


Nationwide Reservations 1-800-311-7159 
Fort Wayne (119)436-6666 
Indianapolis (317)845-9100 
Indianapolis (317)147..0333 

Hockey 
continued from page 12 
played them, we've had good, dose games." The Irish, meanwhile, are still looking for consistency. 
"Friday (a 5-3 Irish win) we played the best hockeywe've played in the last two or three years," said Smith. "Saturday was a complete breakdown from one end to the ot­her." 
The main man for the Irish offense this season has been sophomore center Mike McNeill. With his two goals and three assists over the weekend, McNeill took over the Irish scoring lead with 1 5 points. 
"Mike is playing extermely well. He was really sick all weekend, but he played very, very well despite it. He's been our most consistent player so far." 
McNeill's linemate, Rich Sobilo, also had a good series against the Thommies, scoring two goals and as­sisting on three others to raise his point total to eight. 
Another sophomore, center Tom Mooney, returned from the injury list last weekend and added three as­sists. Mooney had been playing well for the Irish before separating a shoulder in practice before the road series with Michigan-Dearborn. On the season, Mooney has lit the red light five times and has 13 points. 
Center Mark Anquillare will probably return to the lineup this weekend after missing three games with a shoulder separation. 
The Irish defense, shaky at times, is facing the possibility of playing without co-captain Bob Thebeau, who reinjured his leg in practice 
Tuesday. Coach Smith said Thebeau's status is doubtful. 
For the first time this season, the goaltender position is looking clearer. Junior Tim Lukenda will get the starting job this weekend. 
A key for the Irish this weekend will be holding the opposition early 
until they can get their own offense moving. · 
A quick start and some suppon from the home fans could get the Irish back on the winning trail. 
The poUtlcal turbulence of Northern Ireland explodes onto stage ... 

THE 

FREEUtTi~ 
OF THE 

Cl·yVANotre Dame. Showcase Production 
Directed by Reg Baln November 14,15,16and 21,22,23 Washington Hall· Lab Theatre(N. Entrance) 
8:10PM All seats, _4(only 100 seatsper performance) Tickets available: At the door At 320 O'Shaughnessy Hall 

FRIDAY LUNCH: Lunch from 11 :30 -2:00 Pi zze -Subs -Beer 


T0 day____________________Th_u_r_s_d..ay_._N_o_v_e_m_b_e_r_z_I_.,_l_9_B_s_..P;.a.;g~e-ll 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
Kevin WaJsh 
Bloom County 
'MU / P!?INU Cll/11"-€5 
AN{) P/1/ftfl HI/Vfi BeeN ~ FOf? II fl.l[eK MJfll_ /JI/r I~IWN'THMrrJ 
m.t. '101/ 7HI/T 7Ht SfKJCK­IWIVES IlK€ 5TII.L 
K~R8£/WTNG -· \~~\ 
1 .f 
Zeto 
PAP, THf WfHfi/N H/15 9!Cor/t A TYKAiffl. SHe'S GMN ""T'IE IJ(X)T 7lJ flU OF CHI1Kt£S 'fRfWP6... S/le1Jff(()WS St/ff€1(5 PT HIM, 5f€NPS AU HIS~ ON CUJ7H£S, FIReS HIS 5TIIt=f. WIKES HIM fflfT atr:J5 IWP 9flfiiCH PIUt.Y •. !WfJ OFTeN W6Sf£5 HIM t.IKG •[t!y G€0Kr£".-J'"''"­WHILG SHf lllfrCGS -...., '-'1' 7lJ "WHAM/~ IN j . I. 
t.eOffii?P-SKIN . /:1)! ­11&HT5/ 
00.!/ 


'Campus 

•12:00 
P.M. -Brown Bag Lunch, Delbert Tibbs, Former inmate of death row, Men­nonite Steering Committee on Corrections, Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Center for Social Concerns 

•4:00 
P.M. -Lecture, The Takeover Environ­ment of the Mid-Eighties, Donald Clark, Househould International, Hayes-Healy Auditorium, Sponsored by Notre Dame MBA Program ' 

•4:00 
P.M. -6:00 P.M. -Lecture, "Trade Uni­ons and Political Parties", David Collier, Uni­versity of California, Berkeley, Room 131 Decio Hall, Sponsored by Kellogg Institute 

•4:10 
P.M. -Presentation, "Career Oppor­tunities for American Studies and English Majors", Paul J. Reynolds, Career and Place­ment Services, Room 105 O'Shaughnessy Hall, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services , 

•6:00 
P.M. -Presentation and Reception, 


E.F. Hutton, Senior Alumni Club, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services, Open to all 
seniors  interested in  career  opportunities  
with E.F. Hutton  
•7:00  P.M.  Fellowship  Meeting,  

Commoner Room, Flanner Hall, Sponsored by Fellowship ofChristian Athletes 
•7:00 P.M. -Presentation and Reception, COMPUSERVE, Alumni Room, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services, Open to all MBA's, Senior Marketing, Finance, Economics and CAPP majors interested in career oppor• tunities with COMPUSERVE 

The Daily Crossword 

•7:00 
P.M. -Presentation and Reception, Foote, Cone, Belding, Upper Lounge, Univer­sity Club, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services, Open to all Marketing and ALPA Seniors interested in career opportunities with Foote, Cone, Belding 

•7:00 
P.M. Lec:-ture and Meeting, "Alternative Careers in the World ofAdvertis­ing', Gary Villani, Young & Rubicam, New York, 122 Hayes-Healy Auditorium, Sponsored by Notre Dame Arts and Letters Business Society 

•7:00 
P.M. -'lbunday Night FUm Series, "Sisters ofthe Gion", Loft 

•7:00, 
9:00 and 11:00 P.M. -Movie, "Against All Odds", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, S1.50 

•7:00 
P.M. -8:00 P.M. • Lecture, On summer jobs and careers in government in Was­hington D.C., Gary Caruso, Director of Com­munications for Congressman Solomon Ortiz, Ubrary Auditorium, Sponsored by Junior Class 

•8:00 
P.M.. Presentation and Reception, Morgan Stanley, Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services, Open to all seniors interested In career opportunities with Morgan Stanley 

•8:10 
P.M. -Theater, "The Freedom of thl" City", Washington Hall Lab Theater, Sponsored by Notre Dame Dl"partml"nt of Communication and Theater, S4.00 


ACROSS 1 Funnyguy 6 Rabbit's foot 9 Rules 
13 "Carmen" Is one 14 Buy a pig­poke 15 Related on 
mother's side 17 Fruit o•sease 19 Ms Lauder 20 Coaster 21 Multiplication 
word 23 Healthy 24 Humor of a 
kind 25 Ages 26 Pin 30 Inaccuracies 32 Of a Genesis 
man 34 Tune 35 Projection 
on a wheel 36 Dupe 40 Cookie 
All Rights Reserved

42 Native of: suft. 
43 Stop -dime 6 Small bird 44 Quit! 7 Lawlessness 45 Tebaldl or 8 Aquatic animal 
Scotto 9 Majors 48 Places of 10 Response 
bliss 11 Sea view 49 Emoters 12 Stone slab S1 Supposed 16 Snlggler's 54 Plndarlcs catch 
55 Dressln 18 Depot: abbr. 
finery 22 Related Items 56 Hold back 24 Clothing type 60 Sublease 26 Carp kin 62 Certain sport 27 Harem rooms 64 Solo 28 Summertime 65 Consumed fruit 66 Western 29 Printing 67 Dill measures 68 "-,lean" 31 Took to the 69 Irregular slump 
Wednesday's Solution 

Dinner Menus 
Saint Mary's Roast Beefau Jus BeefTaco with Hot Sauce Vegl"tarian Quiche 

9:30P.M.  16  Night Coon  
10:00P.M.  16  Patty LabeUe Special  
zz  Knots landing  
Z8  20/20  
ll:OOP.M.  16  NewsCenter 16  
zz  22 Eyewitnl"!lll News  
28  WSJV Newswatch 28  

33 Ottawa's land ·'\1 Make bubbly 57 Dorothy's dog 
DOWN 36 Similar 49 lsr. dance 58 Fermented 1 Intimidates 37 Shea team 50 Ms St. Johns drinks 2 Ring stone 39 Channel 52 Mother and 59 Days gone by 3 Allocate 41 Fish • father 61 VIetnamese 
4 Infuriated 46 Ancient 53 Inspect holiday 5 Vehicle ascetic 56 Shadowbox 63 Flsheggs 
Notre Dame Meatloaf Turkey Ala King over Biscuits Cheese Strata Chinese Hero Sandwich 
1 

TV Tonight 
8:00P.M. 16 Bill Cosby Show 
zz MaJPlum,PI 
Z8 The Fall Guy 
8:30P.M. 16 FamllyTJes 

zz Simon and Simon 
Z8 Dynasty II: The Colbys 

Thursday, November 21, 1985-page 12
S~orts 
Irish easily win exhibition game as Barlow shines against Yugoslavs 
Forward Matiaz Tovomik led the coach Digger Phelps. "We fell asleep
ByERIC SCHEUERMANN 
Yugoslavs with 25 points. a few times, and we won't be able to
AssistantSports Edttor 
"(Notre Dame) has a great team," do that later against some better said Smelt Olimpija head coach teams. When we went up 14-1, the
No one really expected the game Janez Drvaric. "They are easily the kids said 'The game's over.' And we
to be close. And it wasn't. 'As soon as the Notre Dame basket­
best team we have playedonour trip lost ourintensity, which Ididn't like. ball team jumped out to a 14-1 lead thus far. They have an excellent "But what I liked was that when front line and they rebounded better we called timeouts and made adjust­
with only 2:35 gone in the first half than any team we have played. ments, the players went right out
ofits exhibition game with the Smelt Olimpija team of Yugoslavia last 
"They also play a very good zone and turned it around. night, the .Irish virtually had a vic­
press and, overall, they have a very "There were some things I wasn't strong defense." pleased with that we're going to
tory in hand. 
The Irish outrebounded the have to work on," he continued.
And except for a few letdowns which allowed the Yugoslavs to 
Yugoslavs by a two-to-one margin, "But we got a lot out of this game, finishing with 42 rebounds to the and we were able to let some people
make up a bit of ground, it was visitors' 21. This control on the play and see what our bench can
smooth sailing for the Irish as they cruised to a 109-88 win. 
boards continually allowed the Irish do." to start their fast break, leading to Every Icish player was able to get
Senior captain Ken Barlow led the many easy buckets and 63 percent into the game, except for sop­
Irish with 32 points and 12 shooting on the night. homore Matt Beeuwsaert, who sat
rebounds in only 27 minutes ofplay. The Irish shot 71 percent in the out the contest with bruised ribs.
Sophomore David Rivers scored 15 points, dished out 1 0 assists and, as 
first half, which ended with the Smelt Olimpija cut the early Irish he did last year, excited the capacity 
Yugoslavs on the shon end of a 59· lead to eight points at 16-8, but 37 score. Notre Dame slowly stretched its
crowdof11,345 withhisthshyplay. Junior guard Scott Hicks chipped in "I was pleased with the game the see IRISH, page 9 18points. way it turned out," said Irish head 
Athletic Director's Office works to keep sports programs on track 
conferences with coaches,
(Editor's note: Tbe Observer con­Corrigan acts as the chief ad· tinues its four-part series on the ministrator ofan office which works hundreds of phone calis, and a various offices within tbe Notre closely with the varsity coaches and variety ofsituations. I try to provide 
Dame athletic department. Today their sports. In addition to decisions some balance, both for the coaches part two focuses on tbe athletic on coaches and new staff members, and their emotional highs and lows, director's office.) Corrigan works closely with as­and for their sports. The people I 
sociate athletic director Roger Val­work with are a terrificly dedicated By EDJORDANICH diserri on football and basketball group who have that essential ability Sports Writer scheduling. He works with all to work out disagreements." By DENNIS CORRIGAN sixth year by Tony Fritz, have given 
coaches in approving and arranging The people who work with Cor­Sports Writer up 22 goals while scoring 14 oftheir 
The word "team" generally scheduling. rigan have different responsibilities own. describes a group ofpeople working 
with regard to the athletic depart­It's been an up-and-down season The Foresters blew an oppor­together for a common goal. At ment. so far for the Notre Dame hockey tunity for their first win of the year Notre Dame, the word "team" • Joseph O'Brien handles the team, as evidenced by its 3-6 record when Wisconsin-Riverside usually applies to the football, bas· business activities of the A.D. office. and last weekend's split with St. overcame a 4-3 deficit to snatch a 5· ketball and hockey programs, and to Finances and budgets have become Thomas. The Irish will try to regain 4 ovenime victory. The Foresters all of the university's 19 varsity a focal point of collegiate athletics, some of the momentum they lost in still had a 37-35 shots-on-goal sports. However, another type of and O'Brien has the duties of travel Saturday's 1 0-3 loss when they fa~e advantage. The Lake Forest defense team is responsible for these organization and purchasing. the Foresters of Lake Forest tonight will be suffering from the loss of its programs, and this team's multi· Hiring and scheduling are a small • Tom Kelly, as director of the at 7:30 at the ACC and Saturday at number-one defenseman, Mike faceted responsibilities serve as the fragment ofCorrigan's duties. Super· nonvarsity athletic program, over­Lake Forest. Admission to tonight's Whalen who also keys the Forester leadership for Notre Dame's athletic vision over the physical education sees 12 club sports and 63 different game is free to students with their power play. department. department, television and radio intramurals. IDs. "We don't know too much about 
The athletic director's office, contracts, contracts with other • Sharon Petro, who aids Cor­The Foresters come into tonight's Lake Forest," said Notre Dame head located on the upper level of the schools, as well as special projects rigan in interaction with students game with a record of 0-4. They coach Lefty Smith. "All we can draw ACC, can be a hazardous place for an like the Special Olympics and the and student athletes, is an assistant dropped a pair of games to Kent on is that Lake Forest recruits a lot of innocent bystander. Constant ac­new swimming and tennis facilities, athletic director like Kelly. She also State, which Notre Dame swept ear­kids from eastern prep schools, and tivity and very busy days best all find their way to Corrigan's desk. travels with many of the teams lier this season, and another pair to they play excellent hockey. In the characterize the office at which "This is a very busy place," says throughout the seasons, and is in Wisconsin-Riverside. All of the past two or three years that we've Gene Corrigan has been director for Corrigan. "There ace always Foresters' losses have been fairly 
see OFFICE, page 10 see HOCKEY, page 10
the past five years. meetings which require decisions, close. The Foresters, coached for the 
Bowl picture looks bleak for Irish football fans 
•Air Force, which was in line for a New Year's day bid 
Although the: college bowl picture became clearer after 
before its loss to BYU last Saturday, will have to settle for a last weekend's games, there are still a number ofmajor bids spot in the Bluebonnet Bowl, slated for New Year's Eve in
Larry

up for grabs this Saturday. As far as Notre Dame fans are Houston. There the Falcons will face the runner-up from concerned, however, the picture became almost crystal the Southwest Conference, either Texas, Texas A&M, or
Burke

clear after Saturday's 36-6 drubbing at Penn State. A bowl Baylor. appearance by the Icish is vinually out ofthe question this •Army has alceady committed to the Peach Bowl in At·
Football Notebook 

year, even in the unlikely event that Notre Dame receives lanta, where it will face illinois on Dec. 31. an inviation. •Michigan State will face Georgia Tech in the All 
Bowl bids go out officially this Saturday evening, and in (7·1) Saturday. Oklahoma State (8-1 ), which has two con­American Bowl on New Year's Eve in Birmingham, Ala. The just one game the 5-4 Icish would be hard-pressed to im­ference games remaining, still has an outside shot at the Spartans are one of six Big Ten teams that figure to make prove their national standing enough to attract the atten­title. bowl appearances this year. 
tion ofthe bowl representatives. •Miami, Notre Dame's final opponent, will be spending 
Besides that, Athletic Director Gene Corrigan said late New Year's Day in New Orleans in the Sugar Bowl. The • Monday night he had informed bowl reps prior to the Penn Hurricanes will face the Southeastern Conference winner, State game that Notre Dame would be out of the bowl which could be Tennesse, I.SU, or Alabama. Right now Ten­Sports Illustrated's Nov. 25 issue will feature a story by picture ifthe Icish were to lose to the Nittany lions. That, nessee has the inside track; the Vols can take the con· Rick Reilly entitled "Here's Mud in Your Eye, Gerry," of course, happened, so apparently nothing shon of an terence title by winning their final two games against which says that Head Coach Gerry Faust's days appear to about-face on the pact ofthe athletic department, accom­Kentucky and Vanderbilt. be numbered after Notre Dame's loss to Penn State. panied by an awesome Icish performance against LSU, •Michigan will be playing in a game on New Year's Day, In the article Reilly cites three of Faust's theories on the could put Notre Dame back in the bowl picture. but the question is where. Ifthe Woverines beat Ohio State cause of the losses: "the red-shirt theory" (Notre Dame is 
This year's Icish opponents, on the other hand, figure to Saturdal: and Iowa loses to Minnesota, then Michigan is off one offew schools that doesn't), "the parity theory" ("Any do quite well when the bowl bidsgo out. It's small consola­to Pasadena and the Rose Bowl to take on the Pac 1 0 team can win on any given Saturday") and "the luck (all tion for Icish fans, though, that this year's bowl lineup will champ, UCLA or Arizona State. IfIowa wins Saturday, then bad)ofthe Irish theory," (the miserable conditions at Penn prove just how tough Notre Dame's schedule really was. As Michigan goes to the Fiesta Bowl in Tempe, Ariz., where it State are the most recent example). it stands right now, at least seven teams on Notre Dame's will face the Big Eight runner-up. But while Reilly admits that Faust's teams have been un­'85 slate will be making bowl appearances this year. •LSU is finished with its SEC slate and the Tigers will lucky, he also points out that sometimes they also have 
•Penn State has alceady committed to the Orange Bowl have to hope for Alabama and Tennessee to falter in their been "ill-conceived, oddly-coached, and Keystone Kop where it will face the Big Eight champ on New Year's Day remaininggames ifthe Tigers are to nail down a Sugar Bowl chaotic." He goes on to cite some of the more vivid ex­in Miami. That could produce the dream matchup ofNo. 1 bid. Ifnot, LSU has cut a deal with the libeny Bowl andwill amples of disorganization on the Irish sidelines, which vs. No. 2, provided 9·1 Nebraska beats No. 5 Oklahoma face Texas A&M in Memphis on Dec. 27. have occurred all too frequently this season. 


