House editorial -page 5 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1985
VOL XX, NO. 54 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Hesburgh outlines other U Diversity action taken to end apartheid 
By ELLYN MASTAKO 
Sentor StaffReporter 
Divestment of South African in­vestments is not the only method for the University to help bring an end to apartheid, according to Univer­sity president Father Theodore Hes­burgh. 
Notre Dame's activities aimed at ending apartheid Include: 
• 
Membership in a consortium of 16 college and university presidents urging the elimination ofapartheid. 

• 
Leadership in a program to provide scholarships for South Africans, to be selected by a commis­sion chaired by Bishop Desmond Tutu, in more than 200 U.S. institu­tions of higher learning. Because of the large number of black leaders in South Africa who are clergymen and theologians, a special effort is being made to open up slots for them in 


top American centers for theologi· cal study. 
• Father Hesburgh's participation in what was originally called "the gang of eight" (the presidents of Notre Dame, .Harvard, Yale, Stan­ford, and Princeton, and the chief executive officers of the Carnegie, Ford, and Rockefeller Foundations) was formed to put collective pressure on South Africa. 
"Notre Dame writes to the com­panies that we know have interests in South Africa and asks them to write back to tell us what they are doing to help alleviate apartheid. We will now send them our new invest­ment policy concerning South Africa and they will have to let us know if their policies are in line with ours." 
"For instance," he continued, "The Coca-Cola Company wrote, 'As 
see HESBURGH, page J 

The Saint Mary's championship interball foot­ballgame proved to be a close contest as Holy Cross and McCandless Halls battled to a 14-14 tie at the end of regulation. An overtime period allowed Holy Cross to score once again and bold McCand­less to only two toucbdowns.Holy Cross won the game, 21-14. See page 9 forjill Sarbeno's coverage ofthe event.• 


Fate of senate to determined by student vote tomorrow 
Senators see its usefulness 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI body to express their views to the ad­.'>nlto,.StaffReporter ministration." 
"Without a senate constantly overwatch­Would the disbandment of the Student ing the president, who will stand up to the Senate: be: a mistake:? president?" queried District 2 Senator K.C. Several current members of Notre Dame Culum. "Although detractors of the Student student government believe the disband-Senate say we do not have the ability to ment of the Student Senate would be a check the president's use of money, the stu­mistake. dent senate provides a body that the presi­
"lt's the only forum that can formulate stu-dent must ans~er to and question the dent opinion on University policy," said president's prerogatives." Junior Class President Jim Domagalski. "Who Is going to watch finances? The 
Jim Hagan, student senator, said, "I senate doesn't do it now but it should," believe: getting rid of the student senate, Culum said. rc:gardlc:s.~ of what you think of its present The senate has more pull than individual effectiveness, would be a mistake because students, Hagan said. The administration the students would lose any potential for a will take more notice ofa matter brought to 
It by the: senate than by an individual student, he 

Healy: 'No need for senate' 
By SCOTT BEARBY 
Healy, "there is no need for senate to exist. It 
Asststant News Edtlor 

has no function." 
The Notre Dame Student Senate may be "The senate is an extra bureaucracy" with 
voted out of existence if students approve a overlapping responsibilities, according to referendum scheduled for tomorrow. Ac­Judicial Coordinator Karen Ingwersen, who cording to Student Body Vice President also was a sponsor of the original proposal. Duane Lawrence, the senate's elimination She and Lawrence both said they believe: by would decrease inefficiency in student eliminating the senate, the overlap of duties government. currently existing between the HPC and 
CLC could be eliminated. 
Lawrence is among a group offive student Students should vote for the amendment leaders who originally made the proposal to because it is the "best bet for returning to disband the senate and to distribute its more effective, less bureaucratic student powers to the Campus Ufe Council and Hall government," according to Fisher Hall Presi­Presidents' Council. dent Bill Jelen. "History proves the CLC and 
According to Student Body President Bill HPC can work" without a senate, he added. According to Ingwersen, student voice has been
Present student government constitution 
added. made ineffective with the senate in existence. "The 
"The administration can't just ride you out," said 
Domagalski. If you have a senate that won't hap­
pen." 
District 4 Senator Steve Taeyaerts believes the: senate Is Important because It helps the student body president with his job. In a newsletter to his com·•!: .tants, Tac:yaerts said, "the senate is respon­sible for working with the student body president and cabinet to provide input into the idea generat­Ing process. By taking advantage of the highly representitive composition of the senate:, the stu­dent body president can constantly be In touch with what the students want, thereby legitimizing the expenditure: of their money." 
Taeyac:rts continued, "By working together, the 
student body president, senate: and cabinet can 
strive towards serving students through a com-• 
binatlon of student representation, imput and ac­
tion." 
Those who favor the senate believe the proposal 
to replace: it with the: Campus Ufe Council and Hall 
Presidents' Council won't work. "The: CLC is not 
designed to meet studc:rat needs," said Culum. 
"Members of the: CLC have responsibilities outside 
of the CLC and they cannot devote their entire: 
time to it." 
Domagalski agrees that the CLC is not the answer. "The argument that the CLC can do it is wrong. On paper It looks a lot better than in practice. In reality the administration and rectors cannot, by the nature: oftheir jobs, be open to stu­dent opinion," he said. 
see SENATE, page J Student Senate: 

• 
Formulate and advance the position of the student body on student life issues 

• 
Determine fiscal policies 

• 
Determine student to represent student body at Board ofTrustees meetings 



HPC: 

• 
Advance the position of the student body on student life issues 

• 
Approve all cabinet appoint· ments 

• 
Approve all SAB Steering Com­mittee appointments 

• 
Bring bills ofimpeachment 

• 
Power to mudify the constitution 

• 
Power to have the student body president call meetings of theCLC Other changes: 


• 
Appr,ove SAB Steering Com­mittee Appointments 

• 
Bring bills ofimpeachment 

• 
Select the members of the Judicial Review Board 

• 
Set regulations for all elections 

• 
Approve: cabinet appoint­ments 

• 
Judicial Coordinator wiU select the members of the Judi­cial Review Board 

• 
Ombudsman will set regula­tions for all elections 

• 
CLC will choose student to represent student body to the Trustees 

• 
Committee on the budget becomes a separate entity which will determine: the fiscal policies with CLC's approval. Off-campus vote taken off committee, senior class president and student body president added 




senate has a voice, the same as any organization has." Ingwersen said the senate can write: letters asking for change, but they do not have the aut­hority to make changes. 
"Very important issues have: c:ome up in the senate and have died," said Pasquerllla East Presi­dent Carie Hand. She said issues can be dealt with more quickly and the administration will be more aware of student concern with only the HPC and CLC in operation. 
Unlike the senate, the CLC has the: authority to 
look at specific issues and propose: changes, ac­
cording to Ingwersen. She also said she feels the 
HPC is the most representative student body in es­
tablishing a more unified student voice. 
The student vote: this week is a result of action 
taken at the Nov. 12 HPC meeting in which presi­
dents' approved the proposal by just over the two­
third majority voted needed. 
In commentingon the extra duties HPC and CLC 
will assume: should the proposal be approved by 
voting students, Ingwersen said "not many new 
responsibilities will be added." Lawrence said he 
believes student government leaders' roles will be 
more defined without the senate overlap. "CLC and HPC will continue to perform the duties they have been performing," said Healy. 
Both Jelen ~ Hand said it Is obvious stj.Jdent government is lheffective. Jelen added the proposal is "a better alternative to what we have: now." Ingwersen said, "No new body is being created. We are trying to have: more efficient use of what we have (currently)." 
The Observer Monday, November 18, 1985 -page 2 
Of Interest Medical-and scientific gains shape, 
' 
IsOu~African studentand former prisoner ot COil· science, Sonny Venkatrathnam, will present a lecture today as part of Saint Mary's South African Awareness Week Venkatrathnam was im­prisoned for eight years on Robben Island for his political beliefs. His lecture will begin at 7:30p.m. in Stapleton Lounge of LeMans Hall and is open to the public. -Tbe Observer 
Judicial Board coordinators are reminded that they can pick up election materials between 8:30 and 10tonight at the OBUD office. -The Observer 
Take a day offfrom smoking during the Great American Smoke Out. A representative from The American Cancer Society will be at North Dining Hall during dinner with information, smoke out pledge sheets and "survival bags" to help put out the smoking habit.­
Tbe Observer 

"HaiDIet", starring Richard Chamberlain, will be shown tonight in the Engineering Auditorium at 7. The piJf will be dis­cussed at the Notre Dame Shakespeare Club's meeting on Thursday at 6:30 in the library Auditorium.-Tbe Observer 
Dismas House, a halfway-house for former prisoners will be the topic of a meeting tonight at 7 at the Center for Social Concerns. College students interested in improving post-prison life, can live in the house with the former prisoners. All interested stu­dents are welcome to attend. -The Observer 
. 
. 

Attention Saint Mary's juniors: Pictures for 
the new juniorclass dogbook will be taken today from 6 to 10 p.m. in LeMans Hall. The cost is S6 and must be. paid upon having the photo taken. For more information, call Kathleen Dailey at 284-4428.-Tbe 
Observer 

Carl O'Neil, a member of the Department of Anthropol­ogy, will present a brief seminar titled "Blowing the Family Savings in a Zapotecan Town: Some Reflections on Implications for Change" on the participation and values of a community of Zapotecas from Oaxaca, Mexico. The seminar, sponsored by the Kellogg Institute, will be tomorrow at noon in 131 Decio. · Tbe Observer 
The Fall Fine Arts campaign of WSND, beginning today, will continue through this Sunday. A goal of 18,000 has been set to help offset operating costs ofthe fine arts station. · Tbe Obser­
ver 
Weather 



yet fail to control, the role of fate 
With his great nose forging his way, Cyrano de Ber­gerac swaggers across the stage as the title character in Edmond Rostand's romantic adventure. Cyrano is the dashing swordsman, clever and passionate poet, fear­less leader ofthe Gascoyne and a French hero. 
Although "Cyrano de Bergerac" is billed as a "p~ionate tale of romance and adventure," the play also demonstrates the grip with which fate holds man. 
Obviously Cyrano has no control over the size ofthe nose with which he was born. Yet, it is his grotesque facial appendage that hinders Cyrano from announcing his love for Roxanne. 
Through the course of the play Cyrano battles 100 men to defend a friend, duels a master swordsman and leads the Gascoyne in war against the Spanish. But in the end it is the villanous fate that kills the hero. Near the close of the second act, as Cyrano strolls through an alley, an iron bar falls loose from a balcony and strikes him on the head. Eventually he dies from the concus­sion. 
Three centuries later, 


Sarah Hamilton 
Edltor-ln..Chief 

Besides brute force and economic power man also is harnessing his technological progress in attempt to control other people. 
For three decades the two world super powers have been developing and stockpiling nuclear arms. The United States and the Soviet Union, representing two prevailing ideologies, have chosen to protect and adv­ocate their ideologies with the threat of weapons capable ofdisintegrating civilization. 
Later this week President Reagan and Mikhail Gor­
bachev, the Soviet leader, 
will sit down in Geneva to 

people no longer are discuss the arms race. Their doomed to Cyrano's nasal goal is to impede the con­misfortune. Plastic surgery test. But yesterday's Times represents relief. But man's warned against high ex­technological, medical and pectations. Pride and fear scientific advances are not will help shape the summit restricted to the area of cor­conference. A reporter who rective surgery. In so many presented a news analysis of aspects of life, man's the situation wrote that the progress has enabled him to officials' own goals, domes­take a better grasp on the tic pressures, leadership reins of his world. abilities, senses of history 
A look at the front page of and personalities will play yesterday's New York key roles. The conference Times, however, shows fate and in this respect, the still is winning the game. future of the world, are in 
The Nevada del Ruiz vol­man's control. 
cano in Columbia errupted last week. Now more than 21,000 people are dead in that country. Two months earlier, an earthquake killed 3,000 in Mexico. Scientists blame these disasters on the geological descent of the Pacific Ocean floor under the American coast, someth­ing man cannot prevent. 
Despite millions of dollars and years of research, diseases such as cancer and AIDS remain fatal and in­curable realities. Neither scientists nor doctors have been able to conquer these aftlictions. 
On another frontier of the news, people and nations seem to be yanking more forcefully than ever at the reins oftheir destinies and those ofothers. 
The Sunday Times reported the release of Mathilda Gasela from a South African prison after 101 days of detainment. The Botha government has placed thousands in prisons under South Africa's proclaimed state ofemergency. South Africa's story is one ofpeople choosing to oppress, injure and murder other human beings. 

For now, fate seems to be , 
waiting out the nuclear con­test and the show in South Africa. But man has not closed the curtain on fate. The newspapers document it. Thousands of victims around the world will attest to it. 
18 
NOVEMBER 
1985 

3days till the GREAT AMERICAN SMOKEOUT
tAMERICAN CANCER SOCETY 

Another day, another drqp as there is a 50 percent chance of thundershowers today. It will be breezy and warmer today with a high reaching 65 degrees. Cloudy skies today with the low in the mid 40s. · Tbe Observer 
Viewpoint Copy Editor.......Cindy Rauck­
Design Editor.............Jan~ Ann~ Rl~dford 

horst
Design Assistant...................Beth Conway Viewpoint Layout................ K~vin B~ck~r
Typesetters ...................................... Pat Clark 

Features Copy Editor...............Tim Adams 
Bill Hlghduch~ck Features Layout................... Ellyn Mastako
News Editor...............................)ohn H~asly ND Day Editors .........................Tripp Baltz
Copy Editor.......................... Magi~ Ktrst~n Priscilla K2rl~
Sports Copy Editor......... Dennis Corrigan 

SMC Day Editor.................... Priscilla K2rle
PDOtograpber..................... Hann~ Hacker 

AdDesign ............................Sarah Wolohan Cath~rin~ Ramsden 
111~ O~rv~r (liSPS 599 l-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods.Th~ Obscrv~r is published by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for 130 per year ( 120 per.semester) by writing 111~ O~rv~r. P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, Indiana 4M56. 
111~ O~rv~r is a member of The Associated Pttss. All reproduction rights are reSt"rvc:d . 


Chinese, Vietnamese & American Food 

·Oriental Express 
Carry Out Dining Room 
272-6702 e' ~e 
6329 University Commons ~\0'0 Just West ofUniversity Park Mall ~'II r on State Road 23, Next to Kroger Mon. 1k Weds.107.off . withdiningroomcoupononly 

NOTRE DAME•s OWN ADVERTISERS 


We need Artists. 
If qualified and need a little money, stop by. 
"You just never know where it might take you..." -Extra-Curricular 
239-7668 

....._______________________________________________ 


The Observer 
Monday, November 18, 1985 -page 3 
,) 


"""--I " 

Victims offashion 
Notre Dame seniors Colm Connolly and Mimi Graham celebrate being "victimized" at the Beaux Arts Ball Friday night. The non­alcoholic event was held in the lobby ofthe Architecture Building. The theme was Fashion Victims and the Chicago-based band Nic-· bolas Tremulis provided the musicalentertainment. 





Geneva summit holds the promise for a U.S.-Soviet 'turning point' 
By MARY BERGER 
StaffReporter 
"It could mark a turning point bet­
ween a period that has seen increas­
ingly antagonistic relations and a 
new period of Improving relations," 
said Notre Dame Government and 
International Studies Professor 
George: Brinkley of this week's 
United States-Soviet Union summit. 
Brinkley, the: director of the Uni­versity's Program of Soviet and East European Studies, said he feels "If the summit goes smoothly, it Is even conceivable that relations between the super powers could, In a few years, become as good as they were in 1975." 
It is necessary to keep In mind that "detente at its best does not remove the sources ofconflict but can make them less th.reatenlng." 
Arms control, bilateral issues, regional relations, and human rights are the four main issues which will be debated in Geneva tomorrowand Wednesday. 
Gilbert Loescher, an assistant professor in the Government and In­ternational Studies Department, commented on the role of the human rights issue. "Arms control will most likely be the: central issue," he said, "but there are enough inter­est groups pushing the President to raise the human rights Issue that he will." 
"It would be wrong of the United States not to speak out," Loescher said but added, "as long as they are able to criticize: the violations In the right-wing regimes they are as­sociated with." 
"The: United States Is concerned her and the world." He continued, with the things the West holds dear: "But If this propaganda competition free expression and the treatment of evolves Into a contest to see who dissidents like: Vltaly Yurchenko, can emerge looking better as a among other things," Loescher ex-peacemaker, then some positive plalned. "While the Soviet Union Is results could come out of It, at least criticizing the: United States of not in the next few years." fulfilling its economic and social Loescher said the: Soviet Union duties to its people" by not provid-will not be very accomodatlng to the lng full employment and national Issues of the: emigration of Soviet health programs, for Instance. jews and human rights "without the 
"The United States is not perfect prospect of gaining something as a in its Implication of human rights," result of negotiations." he said. "But it Is the sign ofa mature He said he feels the emigration nation when It can accept criticism Issue is an "Important, powerful gracefully and work towards lm-Issue in American minds" and that It proving its performance." "must be included to Improve rela· 
Brinkley said some agreements, tions." He said that in the past, when such as the terms of a new cultural relations between the Soviet Union and educational exchange treaty, and the United States were good, have evidently already been many jews were allowed to leave. reached. He added that other When relations were bad, though, relatively easy agreements concern-few were able to leave. ing things like: airline landing rights and embassy facilities will probably Brinkley agreed with Loescher. be announced. "How bad or how good our relations 
"Ifthere arc: any 'compromises' on can become depends largely on arms issues, they will probably be In each side's perception of what can the form of negotiating positions be gained or lost," he: said. and results will not be seen until the Brinkley said he also believes that arms negotiators get new instruc­neither nation wants war but neither tions," Brinkley said. Is prepared to give up basic military 
Brinkley said he feels this historic or political positions either. So, ac­summit after six "frosty" years of cording to Brinkley, the range of negotiating abstinence between the negotiations is relatively narrow. Americans and the Soviets may "Both powers have much to gain eventually lead to a new arms limita­from greater economic cooperation tion treaty, significantly reducing as well as from reduction in the cost missiles and warheads, but that and threat of military hardware," depends on whether and how the Brinkley said. He concluded by ABM Issue is resolved. saying "Progress seems more likely 
"It is also possible that none of now that both nations have ap· these things will result from the parently given up the notion that summit because both leaders might victory can be won through want primarily to Impress each ot-obstinacy." 

with NuVision's Double Up Deal! BUY 1st PAIR GET 2nd FRAME AND TINT FREE! 
Now you can get the eyewear bargain of the century. . . Buy one pair of quality NuVision eyeglasses or contacts and get a second frame absolutely free with the purchase of prescription lenses. Choose your second frame from a large selection and get a free solid, fashion or sunglass tint when you buy your second pair of lenses! Plus, save on extended wear, tinted or daily wear contacts. 
'D'emendous Values on Contact Lenses! 
Extended 
$74

Wear 
Dally 
$49

Softmate E.W. 
Wear Soft 
Contact lens price does not Include eye exam or care kit. 
Oller good at p!Wticipatlng olllces only. Glaeaea must be Ofderad at time ol, or prior to, de4Ne<y of your llrat pair. El/8 examination 
-by Independent lcensed optometrtat.Olle< not valid wtth pftor 01t1era. Not valid lor alate and federaly funded progtama. 

LaSalle Square 234·3123  University Park Mall277·8682  
McKinley Town &Country 256·1864  Elkhart Mall-Elkhart 295·2496  
Plymouth Center-Plymouth 936·5012  1012 Main St.-Niles 684·8008  

Previously known as "the gang of eight," and now expanded to


Hesburgh 
twency-five, the Network of Univer­sities and Foundations has met
continuedfrom page 1 
several times recently to discuss a company with deep ties to South their role in the alleviation of apar­Africa's non-white communities, we theid. The network Invited two uni­feel a special obligation to par­versity professors from South Africa ticipate actively in the dismantling for consultation and three courses of ofapartheid.' " action were decided upon: 
"The purpose of the emphasis on educational scholarships is to build • To formally establish the net­future leadership among blacks in work. South Africa because the problem of • The two South African profes­apartheid won't go away," said Hes­sors would return and collect more burgh. He said he feels that a key to information concerning the role of ending apartheid in South Africa is a education in the abolition of apar­well-educated black population. By theid. offering university scholarships to • To commission a study by the African Blacks, something that they Carnegie Foundation concerning are not allowed in their native poverty in South Africa. country, American un;•·p~dtit·s art' Hesburgh serves on the board of trying to help educatt' • ·1 wk< Educational Opportunities In South 
ANNOUNCING 

The liT MBA with a MANAGEMENT INTERNSHIP 
YOU GET VALUABLE WORK EXPERIENCE WITH A MAJOR CHICAGO AREA CORPORATION WHILE YOU EARN YOUR MBA. 
A full-time, day MBA program in: 

• 
Operations Management 


• 
Information Resources Management 


From Illinois Institute of Technology, the University in the forefront of technological innovation and management. 
This MBA uniquely integrates advanced management theory and practice with an understanding of the impact of technology on the strategy, organization and 8Perations of financial. service and manufacturing firms. 
Two semesters of internships during a six-semester, two year course of study. Program begi/'16 ~ne 1986. Inquire now.
. 
CALL OR WRITE: 

Director, MBA Programs ILLINOIS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY School of Business Administration 77 South Wacker Drive Chicago, Illinois 60606 
liD
312/567-5878 

Africa, a group of both business and academic leaders, who have set up 400 scholarships for South African students to study In the United States. "We have some ofthose stu­dents here at Notre. Dame and will get more," he said. 
Hesburgh continued, "There Is a commission of black South Africans under Benjamin Tutu and they pick the students who are offered scholarships. Significantly, all but one of these students have gotten their degrees, and all but one have gone back to South Africa." 
"On our own we are bringing a promising young lawyer to Notre Dame to study at the new Civil Rights Center. It Is hoped that by studying how the United States solved Its 'apartheid problem,' he can return to his country and help alleviate Its apartheid problem." 


enate 

continued/rom page 1 
Hagan also said he believes the 

CLC and HPC are not the an"iwer. 
"The CLC, because of its makeup, 
necessarily can't do this job and 
the HPC doesn't have the time or 
the proper structure to carry this 
out," he said. 
"The students will have no 

chance: ofgetting their views, espe­
cially their views on senslllve 
Issues across, if the CLC becomes 
the voice of the students," Hagan 
said. 
Culum also said he believes the 

CLC and HPC are not the answer. 
"The HPC provides an excellent 
assembly of individuals that can. 
address dorm issues but the 
structure of the HPC does not 
provide the mechanism to address 
current senate concerns," he said. 
Taeyaerts, In his newsletter also said he believes the HPC could not do the job. "By spreading them­selves too thin, hall presidents will be forced to neglect either campus or dorm Issues, thus destroying the effectiveness which marks the HPC In Its present form." 
"It's silly to get rid of the senate. 

It's giving up something and It's not making something better," said Hagan. 
The Observer 
University food stand 'taking business away' 
By MARK DILLON 
Sentor StaffReporter 
A concession stand, run by University Food Services, is com· peting with Notre Dame student organizations involved in fundraising during home football weekends. 
The Food Services' stand is located between Dillon Hall and the South Dining Hall each foot· ball Saturday. It has been in operation for four years. 
University Food Services Director Bill Hickey gave reasons for the stand. Hickey said, "My or· ganization has a resonsibility to Notre Dame students, alumni, and visitors to provide them with a food service." He added, "The outdoor concession stand is an extension of this service and is meant to handle the overftow from the Oak Room." 
Student run concession stands are located throughout the 

I 
campus. These fundraising

I concessions are assigned each 
1. 
year by Student Activities. Specific details on the assign· ment process were not available because Student Activities Direc· tor Joni Neal declined comment on the story until conferring with Hickey. 
Club sports, each of the four classes, volunteer organizations, and other student groups all receive an opportunity to run a concession stand to raise funds, but this is not guaranteed. However, each hall is guaranteed one stand each season. 
The Food Services concession has raised several complaints from some of these groups. Lee Broussard, student activities board director said, "I'm against it. They are taking business away from the student clubs, organiza· tions and charities. I don't think it's justified." 
Judith Windhorst, president of Badin Hall, brought her com· plaint to last Tuesday night's Hall Presidents' Council. Windhorst said, "I wanted to raise the issue concerning the competition by Universtiy Food Services because of complaints I had gotten from the girls who ran our concession stand," she said. 
"We're trying to raise money so we petition for space and get one shot regardless of the weat· her. They are out every week and 


Best Student Pricing 
3 Bed VIsits •••••• 3 Booth VIsits •••. $15.00 
7 Bed VIsits •.••• $26.00 7 VIsits••• $16.00 
7 Bed •• · • $40.00 7 Booth visits. 
Extra Lo\A. Prices Now 
Special For 10 days only 
Buy all of your Tanning NOW 

No expiration on tanning visits 
STOP IN TODAY AND SEE USI OR CALL US AT 219/272-7653 
Located _, Of Unlvenlty Park on Stole Road 23 
they don't have to compete for 
space," Windhorst said. 
"During our concession 

during the Navy game our girls 
were out in the lousy weather 
before and after the game. Be· 
cause ofthe organization backing 
the Food Services' stand they 
could provide a tent for their 
people," she added. 
The Knights of Columbus are 

also against the University Food 
Services concession. Although 
John Rodgers, co-chairmanofthe 
steak sales admitted they were 
having no problems with the 

competition he did voice a com· 
plaint. He said, "I don't think they 
should do it. They are better or· 
ganized. It is the one time we can 
make money." 
Student Body President Bill Healy said, "There have been complaints. Students don't have the resources that University Food Services do." 
In response Bill Hickey said, "I was a member of the Knights of Columbus. I know their (Knights ofColumbus) volume and I know it hasn't hurt." He also said, "My organization had a duty to this University to provide a service. All our profits go back into the general fund ofthe University." 
In response to complaints 

about the competition Hickey 
said, "Our organization might ac­
tually hurt us. I've heard some 
students advising against our 
concession in their sales pitches 
because 'they're dining hall 
hamburgers."' 
Hickey also said, "I've seen the crowds and I don't think we are hurting anyone's business. We provide a dynamic service to this University and I think we do a good job. The outdoor conces· sion stand is just part of our serice." 
Both Healy and Windhorst agreed with this. Healy said, "Anytime Mr. Hickey can help the students he has. He is a reasonable man. If it hurts he'll change it." 
Windhorst said, "Mr. Hickey and his organization do a lot of good. He shouldn't be deluged with angry letters in the Obser· ver like he was with the Oak Room sign. I brought up the com· plaint at HPC so that it would be dealt with through proper chan· nels." 
Healy said he planned to dis· cuss the issue with Hickey this week. 
LET US SHOW YOU THE "FUN WAY" TO A BEAUTIFUL HEALTHY TAN! 

Monday, November 18, 1985-page 4 

Former associate Justice Goldberg reviews legal and political opinions 
By PEGGY PROSSER 
StaffReporter 
"We all set goals for ourselves. Don't set impossible goals, and don't feel depressed because you don't become a Supreme Court Justice or President." 
Arthur Goldberg, a former as· sociateJustice ofthe Supreme Court began his lecture last night by ex· plaining the extent of his own success, and attributing it to "mere luck." 
Under the topic "A Jew in the In· ternational Public Eye, A Personal Perspective," Goldberg addressed key issues, such as discrimination and quota systems, based on his own experiences in political life. 
He began his lecture by address· ing the topic of peace, describing the United States and Russia as "two great powers capable of mass destruction." 
Expressing his dislike for Presi· 
dent Reagan, Goldberg said he 
would like to see the current 
negotiations between the United 
States and Russia to be conducted 
with realism and success. 
He added, "Anything we can do to 
minimize them (the negotiations) 
would be worthwhile." 
Goldberg recognized the presence of conflict in the Arab states, but reminded the audience that peace is not at hand, and hopes should not be built up too soon. 
Along with serving as general counsel to several international labor unions, Goldberg was the prin· ciple architect of the AFL-CIO merger. This merger served to strengthen labor unions by eliminat· ing fighting over representation. 
Following this, Goldberg was ap· pointed Secretary of Labor under John F. Kennedy. 
In his speech, Goldberg was quick to praise Kennedy for his acute mind and unfailing dedication to the American people. 
Kennedy later appointed Goldberg to associate Justice of the 
U.S. Supreme Court. Goldberg dis· cussed this by giving examples of the exaggerated view Americans have ofthe Court's role. 

Justice Arthur Goldberg 

"The Supreme Court cannot make war or peace, cannot make or cure unemployment, cannot balance the budget and cannot gjve us the education system we deserve. 
"Basically, what they do give us is moralistic decisions, such as Brown vs. the Board Education, which helped break down the barriers of discrimination." 
In 1965, President Johnson ap· pointed Justice Goldberg to the United States ambassordorship to the United Nations. Although the Supreme Court is a life appointment, Goldberg gave up his seat on the bench for this opportunity. 
Dean David Link of the Notre Dame Law School described Goldberg as a "significant figure in many developments in this country," and p(aised Johnson for choosing Goldberg as "the right man for the job." 
As an international diplomat, Goldberg played a significant role in the drafting of U.N. Resolution 242, the foundation for peace in the much-troubled middle east. 
As a former lawyer, Goldberg praised the law schools for teaching the mainstream of law and their success at teaching ofthe law. 
Along with his lecture, Goldberg fielded questions from the audience. 
When asked his view on religion, Goldberg stated, "We are not a Christian nation. We are not aJewish nation. Under the Constitution of the United States, everybody has the right to practice their own religion." 
Goldberg described religious dis· crimination in industry and politics, citing examples of steel companies that were not open to Jews or Cat· holies, and the use ofa quota system on the Supreme Court. 
He criticized Reagan for his un­balanced representation of religions in his cabinet, then questioned whether or not a quota system should exist. 
In recognition for his numerous achievements, Goldberg was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1978, the highest award an American can receive, and has earned more than twenty-five 
honorary  Doctor  of Law  degrees  
from  universities  throughout  the  
world.  

Attention: Notre Dame Employees YOU CAN JOIN THE FIRST LOCAL IPA*HMO IN THE 



MICHIANA AREA 
Key

Health Plan 
100% 
TOTAL HEALTH CARE WITH NO DEDUCTIBLE$ AND MINIMAL COPAYMENTS ..,. OFFICE VISITS COVERS ..,. ROUTINE CHECK-U.PS ..,. PREGNANCIES
IN FULL 
..,.SURGERIES ..,. HOSPITALIZATIONS ..,. EMERGENCY CARE BOTH IN AND OUT OF AREA ­
• WORLDWIDE ..,.PAP SMEARS ..,. IMMUNIZATIONS/INOCULATIONS 

KEY HEALTH PLAN 
Wholly Owned by Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Indiana 
*Individual Practice Association (you personally choose a privately practicing physician as your health care manager) 
• • • • • •' ~ \ ·' '·" *~'9 • ~ -,. ~"-•.•.•~•.•._'"! ..""r_.... ·.._" .t f I I • t t t f • t • t"''
~---....--------....rJIIII!I!. ..•• ~..•, -------~~----.........111!1!1 .) ' .• .~
..111!1!1.~-~ 


~i~~~_()_._i_llt M_o_nd-ay,_N_o~-m-be-rl-8,_19-85--p-ag-eS 
Students slight women with low attendance 
Insufficient proposal does not deserve vote 
Tomorrow could be a new beginning. Students will have the opportunity to 
support or reject an amendment which would initiate a major change in student 
government. Several student leaders have proposed this amendment as an al­
ternative to the bureaucratic Student Senate. 
The proposed amendment in tomorrow's referendum does not deserve stu­
dent support. 
A vote against this amendment is not a vote for the Student Senate. No one 
denies that the senate, as it is used now, is a highly ineffective body. Changes are 
needed. Soon. 
The proposed plan to replace the senate, although it does contain some excel­
lent ideas, has several inherent weaknesses. These weaknesses must be resolved 
before such a drastic step is taken. 
The proposed amendment reduces many checks and balances in the current 
system. Under the new plan, the Hall Presidents' Council would inherit the 
senate's responsibility to check the power ofthe student body president, but the 
president would not be required to report to the HPC or attend its meetings. 
Although the president does chair the Campus life Council, this body is not 
designed to fill the watchdog role that traditionally has been the senate's. 
Elections would be controlled entirely by Ombudsman under the new plan. 
Although in fact OBUD has exercised most of the control in past elections, the 
senate's power to question OBUD's actions is sometimes not just a "rubber 
stamp." No group should have unrestricted control over such a key governmen­
tal function. 
In the same way, the judicial coordinator would have the sole responsibility to appoint members of the judicial review board. While it may be true that the senate usually approves the coqrdinator's nominees for these positions without debate, eliminating all power to approve or disapprove such choices could be dangerous. 
Budget review, now controlled by the senate, would be transferred to the HPC. This is but one new duty that explicitly would come under the HPC's domain. Would this expanded role detract from the hall presidents' abilities to fulfill their duties within their dorms? Supporters of the amendment maintain that these additional powers are either quick "rubber stamps" or already are carried out by the HPC. Common sense dictates that important functions such as these would demand an additional commitment oftime and effort. 
The HPC has proved itself an effective body. The additional burden the new structure would or should place on HPC representatives might damage rather than expand the HPC's role as a link for communication between students and their government. 
The proposal was drawn hastily. The bulk of the amendment was written by two student leaders. This rushed proposal developed by so few students has not adequately considered other options or foreseen potential problems. 
For example, a proposal for a new student subcommittee of the Campus life Council followed in the wake ofthe proposed amendment. This subcommittee might be an adequate student voice in the absence ofthe senate, but at this stage its role is ill-defined. The proposed subcommittee sounds suspiciously like a modified senate. 
The five leaders proposing this amendment should be applauded for their efforts to untangle student government bureaucracy. The proposal shows much enthusiasm and acknowledges the ineffectiveness ofthe senate. 
The amendment's shift ofemphasis to the CLC also is encouraging. This body has a direct line to the administration and Board ofTrustees. But recently it has been neglected in favor ofa senate which has much less real power. 
The amendment's acknowledgement of the potential of the HPC is a well­deserved vote ofconfidence in that body. 
Student government needs to be restructured. It needs a structure which will endure and grow with the changing needs of students. Despite some good points, the amendment as it stands does not provide a lasting answer. 

-The Observer 

Doonesbury 
MJH£3N JH/3 MS/flfNT'SAilJ •fJEPWY• 'IESTE/?I1J.Y, He 
RCAUYMfiWT''5HARE." H19lA'TER ~A7lfMENTON A8M'91U4$N(JfA 01/WGe OF raJCY, 8UTtHERt1JAS 1{)$5/81£ POUCY. 
v~~~ 

AL'50, MR. !?CAGAN's COM­
MENTS ON Vf3/?JFirAnON 
fA1E.FE NOTMf.IWT m813 TAI<tN 5ERIOUSLY. ANlJ Hl5 (}$e OF 7He WOR[) ''/JM/75• WA~ f?EAUY 
5ff{)f{(HANlJ FOR "NO \ L/M/75.' 
I attended the Notre Dame women's vol­leyball game against Saint Francis on Oct. 30 and was disappointed with what I saw. No, I was not disappointed with the performance of the team. I thought they played an excellent game and treated this observer with a stun­ning comeback in the final game ofthe match. What upset me was the student support at the game. What I should say is the lack ofstudent support. 
Eric M. Bergamo 
across the eighth dimension 
I asked Chuck Freeby, who was handing out 
programs to the sparse audience, if the atten­
dance was always this small. "Unfortunately," 
was the answer. That statement could well 
describe the general attitude of the student 
body toward-; women's athletics. 
Notre Dame prides itself on having "the greatest student body" in attendance at sport· ing events. There are sellout crowds for every home football and basketball game. But when the women are playing, "the greatest student body" has something more important to do. 
When the men are playing, we'll drop everything to go. When the women are in ac­tion, we find numerous excuses not to go. 
The women's volleyball team, along with the women's basketball team, play extremely hard schedules against national opponents. They also play their games in front of ex­tremely small crowds. Would it not be satisfy­ing to them if they could play their games in front ofthe same large crowds as the men do? 
The only time substantial amounts of stu· dents attend the games is when someone such as Domino's is sponsoring a promotion before the game, or when the men play after the women are finished. This apathy is unfair to those women who make numerous sacrifices to play for Notre Dame. 
One reason for this lack of support may be that we believe women's athletics is not as ex­citing as the men's. If you had been at the women's volleyball game, you would have seen that such a view is false. The women provided a thrill-a-moment during the game. When I went to a number ofwomen's basket· ball games last year, I found the action to be on par with that in the men's games. 
Using the claim that women's sports are "not as good as the men's" is a -sign that one does not know what he is talking about. 
I come from a high school where women's athletics is now bigger than the men's. In the past two years, the Mynderse Academy 
Garry Trudeau 
•women have won three sectional titles, have gone to the state semifinals in soct;er, and have advanced to the regionals in basketball. People still follow the Mynderse football team, but the main question now when fall rolls around is, "How's the girl's soccer team going to do?" 
The Mynderse women's soccer team won 
the first of those three sectional titles In my 
senior year. The support ofthe girls during the 
season was amazing; more than 100 people 
regularly attended the home games. I found it 
hard to concentrate on football practice (as 
did the rest of my teammates) when the girls 
played. 
One game, against perennially tougb Victor, 
went Into overtime. The football team would 
not start practice until the game, which Myn­
derse won, was over. My classmates and I 
regularly traveled to wherev'er the girls were 
playing away from home. That student sup­
port was important to the girls. 
This season, the Mynderse girl's soccer 
team ended the season 23·1, the lone loss 
coming in the state Class B finals to a team that 
was ranked 14th In the state. They won the 
sectional and regional finals to become the 
first team from Mynderse to be represented in 
a state final. The girls received police escorts 
into town after these two victories. And who 
is to say women's athletics Is not exciting? 
It is sad to see this lackadaisical attitude 
toward women's athletics here at Notre 
Dame. Notre Dame has been blessed with 
some outstanding recruiting that has brought 
some fine women athletes to this University. 
This is starting to pay off. The women's vol· 
leyball team plays against tougher competi· 
tion every year and improves at the same time. 
The women's basketball team won the North 
Star Conference last year. 
It is time to provide these teams with the 
same enthusiastic supportwe give to the men. 
Only when we have a "seventh man" in 
women's volleyball and a "sixth man" for 
women's basketball can we claim to be "the 
greatest student body." 
There were only 87 in attendance at the volleyball game that I went to last Wednesday. Ifwe, as a student body, were to attend at least one or two games a season, it would be a show of our support of Notre Dame's women ath· 'teres. They have worked hard for what they 
have accomplished. 
It is now time we acknowledge their com­mitment and effort with our support. Support that has been a long time in coming. 
Eric Bergamo is asophomore international relations major and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 


Quote of the day 
"Whenever the good Lord closes a door somehow he always opens a window." 
Oscar Hammerstetn (1895-1960) The Sound ofMusic 


Editorial Board Operations Board 
Edltor-ln-Chl'f .............................Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager.. .... David StephenJtch 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
M.naglng Editor ................................. Amy Stephan Controller ..... William J. Highducheck News Editor ............................................. Frank Upo Advertising Manager ..... .......... Jim Hagan
The Observer 1s the inde:-• .., ...jent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor' ................................... Dan McCulough Systems Manager .. ....... Mark B Johnson 
Notre Dame du Lac A"1d Sa1c 1 Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Thereu Guarino Production Manager... ......... John A. Mennen 
admJnJstratJon of ei,;,er ir~utution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­
Spotts l£ditor ...........................................Jeff Blumb Sible. Uns1gned editonals represent the opmion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen· 
Accent Editor .........................................Mary Healy tanes. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is 
Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphyava1lable to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on Photogr.phy Editor ...... ..................Peter C. Lachee 
campus, through letters, is encouraged. 1Copy Chief .......................................... PhiUp H. Wdf Founded November 3, 1966 




Accent 

Monday, November 18, 1985 -page 6 
NVA all-nighter lets students roam ACC 
T 
DAVE FALISZEK much to do that it was difficult to Mary's community has a long features writer decide between ice skating, basket­traditon of involvment with Logan ball, swimming, racquetball, and Center, a center for the mentally he new pool in the Rolf Aquatic many other sports. and physically handicapped. Center was christened by the Because attendance was low, the Senior Shannon Marks' tourna­students Friday night at the Non-event was cut short at 2 a.m. ment basketball team "Cool Varsity Athletics' all-nighter. The Nonetheless, the students who Breeze" played a team comprised of event was held to celebrate the were there really enjoyed them­athletes from the center. He said completion ofthis new addition to selves. The indoor soccer, nerf that "a lot ofgood kids came over the ACC and to raise money for the football, and basketball went espe­from the center, and a lot ofvolun­St. Joseph's County Special Olym­cially well. The water sports also teers showed up to support them." pics Organization. seemed to be popular. Freshman It was a close game, and everybody 
The evening was a rare oppor­Kevin O'I.ater said that "the nerf had a fun time. He also noted that tunity for students to use and enjoy football was really successful, wit· he thought the event was "a really all the facilities in the ACC. Al­bout a doubt. I think the whole good idea. Too bad more people though student attendance was not event was a great idea, but I think didn't come out to support the as large as was hoped, the event was that they picked a poor date · a lot cause." successful in raising several ofpeople went away for the In general, the event was con­hundred dollars for charity and in weekend or went to their hall's sidered a successful venture. Money providing an excellent time for the dance." was raised for a worthy cause, stu­students who attended. dents had a good time, and the 
For those students who elected Sally Derengoski, assistant direc­special athletes left a lasting impres­
· not to go, you missed out on a great tor ofNVA, admitted mild disap­sion on those who attended. Deren­opportunity to try the new Aquatic pointment over the low attendance goski would like to see the Center. It is an impressive addition but emphasized that she was all-nighter become an annual event. to the ACC, and who knows how delighted that those students who She feels that "given this oppor­often it will be made available to did participate had such a good tunity to have a good time and to the students for their recreational time. It was especially heart­contribute to a good cause, we
f I use? Students also enjoyed shooting warming to see the interchange would hope that in the future the r hoops on the same court where between the students and the spe­kids who had a good time tonight their favorite college team chal­cial athletes who were present. She would pass on the word . . . . Let
I 
I lenges its opponents. There was so added that the Notre Dame/Saint it grow." 
r 
Tbe Oboerver/Stephen Blaha 
Some scenesfrom the NVA a/1-nighter: whether it 
~was taking a soaring dive into the new swimming 
pool, scoring in agame ofH20 hoops, orjust plain 
sitting on the ice, many studentsfound the event to 
be a great way to relax. •
Tbe Oboerver/Siqlhen Blaha 





Tbe Oboerver/Stephen Blaha 
Tbe Oboerver/Stephcn lllaba 


rhe Oboervert:s hen Blaha 

KRISTEN DAVEY  in hopes ofgreater reward.  tion concerning malpractice. There  attitude towards the practicing of  remains unclear is who is suffering.  
features writer  The seriousness ofthe  is a definite ceiling on the amount  medicine in general. In his opinion,  Obviously, the malpractice system  
procedures performed by these  for which a settlement can be made  the number ofmalpractice suits  was designed to protect patients  
Malpractlce. It is a word that can strike fear into the hearts of  doctors also adds to their risk of malpractice as well. Emergency  and each case is assigned a review panel consisting ofphysicians and  filed each year has reached a plateau.  against negligence on the part of the physician. The stringent laws  
physicians and it is one ofthe fastest  room medicine, for example, often  others recommended by both the  Troeger, on the other hand, feels  and stiff penalties were originally  
growing problems f.lced by the  deals with crucial situations and  plaintiffand the defendant.  that the situation "probably has not  intended to serve as incentive for  
medical profession today.  thus has been forced to alter anum­ Doctors in most states are not  peaked" as ofyet. He believes that  doctors to give the best care pos­ 
In the past several years, the  ber of its practices to combat the  quite so fortunate as those in In­ the number ofsuits filed will con­ sible, but in recent years the situa­ 
number of medical malpractice  threat of malpractice. Many more  diana with regard to malpractice  tinue to increase for at least several  tion seems to have changed. Today,  
suits filed has reached epidemic  tests are performed and precautions  laws, but many other states are  years. Both views are supported by  patients seem to be taking  
proportions. Whether this upsurge  taken in a present day emergency  attempting to enact similar legisla­ a sufficient amount ofevidence, but  advantage ofthe very laws designed  
In the popularity of malpractice is  room than l 0 or 1 5 years ago.  tion.  the outcome remains uncertain.  to protect them. The roles have  
the fault of doctors for making more  Although this extraordinarily  When questioned on the future  The situation does seem desperate  shifted and the patients are now the  
mistakes or the result of increased  cautious approach to medicine has  possibilities ofthe malpractice  enough that action by either the  aggressors.  
public awareness and greed is un­ obvious benefits, the costs of  situation, Bender and Troeger had  American Medical Association or  Fear should not be as high on a  
clear, but both sides are suffering  malpractice, such as the greater  opposing viewpoints. Bender stated  the federal government definitely  doctor's list ofconsiderations as it  
the consequences.  number ofprocedures performed,  his beliefthat the malpractice situa­ could be considered as an option.  appears to be. Steps should be taken  
Dr. Harvey A. Bender, director of  the longer average length ofhospi­ tion "is close to saturation." He  In hearing all this information, it  for the protection ofthe doctor's  
the Regional Genetics Center and a  tal stay, and the increased rates due  feels that physicians' sensitivity to  becomes clear that the medical  rights, while still guarding against  
professor ofgenetics at Notre  to higher insurance premiums, also  the possibility ofmalpractice suits  malpractice system has been sub­ negligence and substandard medi­ 
Dame, feels that the threat of  must be taken into consideration.  has·generated a more cautious  jected to continual abuse, but what  cal care.  
malpractice affects everyday deci­ Premiums for malpractice in­ 
sions made by doctors. Physicians  surance have risen steadily each  
in general have become much more  year. According to Dr. Thomas A.  
cautious in their practices due to  Troeger, director ofthe South"Bend  
their increased awareness of  Medical Center and associate  
liability.  professor at Notre Dame, the mini­ 
Certain areas ofspecialization  mum malpractice insurance would  
within the medical profession are especially affected by the threat of  cost approximately eight hundred dollars per year in the state ofld­ -­ 
malpractice, as they are more prone  diana, where insurance costs he  
to the possibility ofa suit. Accord­ relatively low. The previously­ 
ing to Bender, the highest risk  mentioned high-risk groups could  
groups are anesthesiology,  expect to pay up to twice that  
obstetrics, gynecology, surgery, and  figure.  
emergency room medicine. One of the main reasons for the special danger faced by these groups is the  The severity of the problems surrounding malpractice has been recognized by several state legisla­ Oboav<.r/StcplliCII Blaha  ,  '­The~~ .......  

Monday, November 18, 1985 -page 7 

Mellencamp-playing R.O.C.K. in the ACC 
, 

Concerts -
clear harmonies but with their audience and lifted the crowd to loopy antics. giddy heights; "Rain on the During the concert, Mellencamp Scarecrow," Mellencamp's haunting
John Cougar===' 
and his band played every big song tale of the foreclosures ofsmall Mellencamp~ that he's known for-"Jack and family farms; and "Pink Houses," 
Diane," "Lonely 01' Night," which may be his finest composi­"Crumbling Down," "Hurts So tion to date. He whipped this baby 
W 
TIM ADAMS Good," "Authority Song," "Pink into shape in concert, turning it features copy editor Houses," and yes, even "I Need a into a terrific anthem. Lover." During "Lonely 01' Night," Mellencamp closed out the show hen it comes to rock 'n' roll Mellencamp showed he's still a with a series ofsongs from the '50s heroes, I think I could safely regular guy by jumping down into and '60s. He featured two Joe South say that Indiana is not exactly over­the audience. (And was that a Notre songs, "Walk a Mile in My Shoes" flowing with them. But one ofthe Dame cap he returned with?) and "Hush," in incredibly powerful big stars it does have makes up for You may remember that he was versions; you know this is the music the lack of a hundred others. The also one ofthe organizers of Far­that Mellencamp grew up on. Then ­star I'm talking about, ofcourse, is mAid, the benefit concert for came Smokey Robinson and the John Cougar Mellencamp, and he American farmers. During Saturday Miracles' song, "Mickey's Monkey," had a chance to perform before his night's concert, Mellencamp said he in which the two backup singers Hoosier brethren Saturday night at wanted to mention the plight of the came to center stage and did the the ACC. farmers just once. "No, I'm not in Monkey with Melfencamp. The 
Mellencamp gave the crowd love with the past, but I am in love band brought the crowd to its feet almost two-and·a-halfhours' worth with what's going to happen in the with "Mony Mony," 1'Nobody But ofspirited rockers, brooding vig­future." He added that money can't Me," and a great version of"Proud nettes, and good ol' '60s party help a problem the size ohhe Mary," Creedence Clearwater 
tunes, and the sold-out crowd farmers', but people and protest Revival's classic tune about life on 
definitely loved it. can, and then he encouraged the river. 
While the rocking-chair-like everybody to write his or her "Grandma's Theme" blared from senator about the farmers. He didn't With that, Mellencamp and his the speakers, Mellencamp's band mention exactly what the letters band left the stage, but the crowd appeared onstage and then kicked should address, but it was still a wanted more. So the band came into the opening chords of"Small nice effort to keep his audience back and did a beautiful version of Town," and the lighters started aware of the problem. the Drifters' "Under the a·ftarin'. After a while, the star of the Mellencamp recently has been Boardwalk." The lights were turned 
show ran onstage, slapping the showing a more sincere and on the crowd,as well as the band, hands of the people in the front believable side, beginning with his and everybody was swaying and row. Mellencamp seemed in touch 1983 release Uh-Huh and extending singing. Mellencamp brought a with his audience, and gave the to this year's Scarecrow. His recent lucky lass onstage, and they danced immediate impression that this was material is also better, as evidenced and sang together. It was a pleasant going to be a good show. by the fact that he played qnly five ending to a pleasant concert. 
The band was augmented by songs from albums earlier than John Cougar Mellencamp Mishawaka violinist Usa Germano, Uh-Huh. In playing one ofhis earlier showed that he is still growing and who gave a country twang to "Small tunes written for an old girlfriend, maturing as an artist. I think he is Town" and several other songs though, Mellencamp almost broke sincere, even considering his awful during the course of the evening. down and cried, showing that some past as "Johnny Cougar." Ifhe can KeyboardistJohn Cascella provided ofhis old songs still pack an emo­keep making albums as good as his the songs with a little more mood, tional punch for him. last two, I think he will then have and backup singers Pat Peterson The highlights of the concert deserved the right to use his real and Crystal Taliefero kept the were "Play Guitar," where guitarist name again. Way to go, John Mel­evening lively not only with their Larry Crane plunged deep into the lencamp. 

Malpractice suits-for the good of whom? 

"high economy" Involved, says  tions which have taken steps to  At left, Dr. Thomas A. Troeger,  South Bend Medical Center and an associate professor at  
Bender. Because these specialists  bring the situation back under  Notre Dame. He thinks the number ofmalpractice suits "probably has not peaked" yet. At right, Dr. Harvey  
are generally well-paid, people are more likely to file suit against them  control. For example, Indiana has some particularly effective legisla- A. Bender, director ofthe Regional Genetics Center and a professor ofgenetics at Notre Dame. He thinks the number ofmalpractice suits is "close to saturation."  

The Observer Monday, November 18, 1985 -page 8 
Sports Briefs 
ND Women's Track Club p~;actices will begin 
today. Those running 800-meter and/or longer distances should meet at the main circle at 4:30 p.m.. Those running 400-meter or shorter distances, as well as those infield events, should meet at the ACC track dome at 5 p.m .. For more information call Mary Beth at 277-1983 or Nancy at 283-4222. -The Obseroer 
The ND Sailing Club will hold a meeting tomorrow at 6:30p.m. at the boat house. All members are encouraged to at­tend. For more information call Dan Dressel at 288-8410.-The Ob­
seroer 

The ND Women's Fast-pitch Softball Club will hold a meeting tomorrow at 4:15 p.m. in the Farley middle room. All new and returning players should attend. For more information call Marilu at 283-4189.-The Obseroer 
A co-ed volleyball tourney, four on four, will 
be held Monday evenings at the Angela Athletic Facility beginning 
Monday, Nov. 25 and running until Dec. 19 .. Women players must be 
SMC students. Applications are due Friday to the Angela Athletic 
Facility. For more information call the Angela Facility at 284-5549 or 
Karla at 284-4354.-The Obseroer 

The annual SMC Turkey-Trot cross-country 
races will be held Monday, Nov. 25 at 4:30p.m. at the Angela Athletic 
Facility. The races, a 3-mile run, a 5-mile run, and a 1 1/2,mi1e walk, 
are open to SMCstudents, faculty, staff, and friends. Entries cost $1 
and must be turned in by Fri~y at noon. -The Obseroer 
NVA basketball officials are needed for co-ree basketball, men's and women's interhall, and dub basketball. For more information call the NVA office. -The Obseroer 
The ND Weight and Fitness Club will spon­
sor a bench press competition on Sunday, Dec. 8 at a time and loca­
tion to be announced. Sign-ups are being taken in the third floor 
weight room of the Rockne Memorial Building, and any member of 
the ND/SMC community is welcome. For more information call Pat 
Browne at 283-2056.-The Obseroer 

Racquetball enthusiasts who are lookin~ for 
competition should mail an index card to 308 Walsh Hall by Fnday, stating name, address, phone number, skill level, and campus court preference. For more information call Michele Debrey a283-4526. 
-The Observer 

NVA Century Club is a program to promote in­dividual exercise and fitness. Applicants select an exercise and pledge a personal fitness goal. When the applicant reaches his/her goal, a free Club T-shirt will be given out. To fill out a pledge card or to get more information call the NVA office. -The Obseroer 
Irish 
continuedfrompage 12 

two yards out for Penn Statt:'s second touchdown, capping a I0­play, 65-yard drive. Tim Brown's fumble on the ensuing kickoff gave the Uons a gift three-pointer to close out the first-half scoring, as Manca nailed his third field goal of the day from 50 yards out. 
A 23-0 halftime score had many spectators heading for the exits, but Faust felt that the weather could work to his team's advantage. 
"We felt we still had an oppor­tunity because of the conditions," Faust said when asked about his feelings at halftime. "We knew anything could happen and I felt the team felt that way too." 
But what did happen was more of 
· the same, as the Uons, like the weat­her, kept pouring it on in the second half. Beuerlein threw his second in­terception on Notre Dame's first possession of the half, and Isom returned it tb the Irish 32. From there it took the Uons eight plays to add their third touchdown, -a one­
' yard run by Shaffer. The Uons were aided on the drive by the first offour second-half Irish personal fouls. 
Beuerlein's third interception helped set up a 26-yard Manca field goal midway through the third quarter, and a blocked Dan Sorensen punt gave the Uons the field posi­tion for Manca's fifth three-pointer, from 35 yards out. That field goal gave the home team a 36-0 lead late in the third quarter. 
Notre Dame finally got on the board with 3:33 left to play, when reserve tailback Hiawatha Francisco scored on a two-yard touchdown run. Backup quarterback Terry Andrysiak was at the helm for Notre Dame's only scoring drive, but that apparently did little to change the current Irish quarterback situation. 
"I don't think either one of our quarterbacks played well," said Faust. "Theirs (Shaffer) did play well, and I think that was the dif­ference in the game." 
Shaffer was a sophomore quarter­back at Cincinnati's Moeller High School when Faust left that job. 
EXTRA POINTS -The defeat was Faust's 24th in his five years at Notre Dame, the most ofany coach in Irish history. Faust avoided discussing his own current situation, except to say, "(A win) would have made things easier wouldn't it?" . Lost in the negative stats of the day were Beuerlein's 10 completions in 19 at­tempts, which made him Notre Dame's all-time leader with 305 career completions. 
...unllly'a G8me Notre Dame 0 0 0 6 -0 Penn State 7 16 13 0 -36 kori.. PSU ·Dozier 21 p-from Shaffer (Manca kick) 
PSU -Manca 27 FG 
PSU -Smith 2 run (Manca kick) 
PSU -Manca 50 FG 
PSU -Shaffer 1 run (Manca kick) 
PSU -Manca 26 FG 
PSU -Manca 35 FG 
NO-H. Francieco 2 run (kick blocked) 
ND PSU Firatdowna 14 19 Ruahing attempts 29 59 Net Yards Rushing 90 169 Net Ywds P-ing 133 126 P-comp-attempted 13-25 7-18 Had intercepted 3 0 Total Net Yards 223 295 FumbiM-toat 6-2 1-o 
Pendiaa-ywds 7-68 6-40 
Punta-average 5-29 2-34 
Individual L--. 
RUSHING-Notre Dame: Pinkett 12-61; Andryaiak 
6-15; Stama 3-13; Heck 1-5; H. Francieco 3-5; 
Monohan 1-Q; Beuerlfiin 4-(-9); Penn State: Dozier 
17-75; Manao 7-22; Woods 6-15; Clari< 3-14; Smith 
8-13; Thomu 5-11; Cooper 4-10; Shaffer 4-B; Kniz· 
ner 2-1; Hornyak i-o; Wilkerwon 1-(-5); 
PASSING -Notre Dama: Beueriein 1Q-19-3, 94; Andryaiak 3-5-0, 39; Von Wyl o-1-o. 0; Penn State: Shaffer7-16-0,126; Kniznero-2-o.o; 
RECEIVING-Notre Dame: Brown 3-33; Rehder 2­32; Ward 2-14; Stama 2-8; Euon 1-14; Heck 1-13; Green 1-12; Pinkett 1-4; Penn State: Dimidio 2-38; Dozier2-28; Roundtree 1-37;Gilaa 1-15; Manoa 1-8; 
Attendance-85,704 


Lions 
rnntinuPrl fro"' i '"•• ,· ! '! 
forced Notn.: Dame into six fumbles, of which the Lions recovered four, while also intercepting three Beuer­lein passes. · 
Penn· State turned these crucial turnovers into 19 of its 36 points, continuously gaining excellent field position on the basis of Irish miscues. 
"The defense definitely did the job for us today," said Paterno. "They played very well. They have been consistently good all year." 
"The turnovers really cost us," said Irish head coach Gerry Faust. "They gave them good field position and in a game like this with the field in terrible shape, that will cost you. 
"They played errorless football. We didn't. They did what you have to do on a day like this." 
The Lions only outgained the Irish by 72 yards on the day, and actually gained less per play -3.8 yards to 4.1 yards for Notre Dame. But the strong and opportunistic defense always seemed to be leading 'the way, set­ting the offense up for more points while keeping the Irish far from 'the endzone with big plays. 
"We played extremely well, and we're getting better and better each game," said Penn State linebacker Shane Conlan. "Everybody knows where everybody else is and that's the key. Coaches go over everybody, and you know what the guy next to you is doing." 

SObering ~e¥-, 



~!'!~ :!!ft3~~ 
BefOre You Drive .~ · 
The Obsert•er :'1/otrt· Dame: olfkc:. lot·atc:u on tht· thiru floor of l.ah>rtunt· Studt·m Cc:ntc:r. an·c:pts cla~sifkd ad\·rrtising from 9 am until -i p m...\lunda\ through l'rida\· The Obsl't'r·er Saint \Ian·, offi<T. lm·att·d on tht· thord floor of lla~~ar Collr~e ( :c:mer. a<Tt·pts clas.\lfinh from 12..~0 p m until -~ p m. \Ion­day though l'rida\ Dc:adlinc: for nt·xt-da\ tlas\ltlo:ds i' -~ p m All classotkds must he: prt·paid. t'Hht·r in pl'Tson or h\ mao I ( hargt· os I 0 <Tnts per the: t-harac­


Classifieds 
ters c:r dav. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 

TYPING CALL CHIQ 234-8117 
EXPERT TYPING 2n-B534 AFTER 5:30 
11o-tll0 WEEKLY/UP IIIAILING CIR­CULMIII NO OUOTAII .NCDB.Y INTDDTED IWIH ALF­~D ENVELOPE: auccaa, PO Mllll 470CEQ, WOOOSTOCK, L' 10011. 
EXPEJIT TYPING IEIIVICE. CALL 11M. COKEJI, 2»-7001. 
TYPING 
217~1 

FWEE PICKUP A D&IYEJIY 
TYPING 
JecldeiiCIIII 
114-17a 

........•.......................\ ............................... SEWING -MENDING -ALTERATIONS 272-o971 
LOST/FOUND I 
LOIT One women's Pulur watcll (albleck) PleUe cal 1254 ff found 

LOST: Gold Elgin watch, probably at Senior Bar on Halloween. Of sentimental value-gift from paren.. for 18th birthday. If found, ~call Angela at 272-9623. 
FOUND: A watch on Sunday morning, 11110. Call Mark at2450 and deeaibe it. 
LOST!II Small navy Coach purae. Con­taina Iota of 10 plus kaya! PJeue call 4203. Sizeable reward offered. 
LOST: A GUESS -ch. loat in Hayee­Healy rm. 23. If found PLEASE contact BRUSH at 287-6518. 
HELP!!ILoat my wallet on Monday night (problbly in LaFortune or in the m.in libnlry). It ia a Notre Dame wallet and doaa have my identification in it If found PLEASE call Michael at 234-7350 (Beet after 7:00 pm).THANKS! 
LOST!I One CASIO WATCH.Dual digital end norrr* watch face. Black band. If you have it, ~caM 2460 
...................................·~·~-._.................
~-· 

LOST... DARK GREEN CARDIGAN SWEATER... VIRGIN WOOL/WOOL BLEND, FRONT POCKETS, GRAY BUT­TONS... MARYLIN MONROE BUTTON ATTACHED... MADE IN IRELAND (?) ... NOT AN EXPENSIVE SWEATER, BUT IT WAS MY FAVORITE. . . IF FOUND PLEASE RETURN. . . Will GLADLY PAY REWARD OF DOUBLE ORIGINAL PRICE. 283-2164 or 25 Mor­riaaay, THANKS. 
································································ 
Found: car key belonging to an Audi. H• been taken to Loat & Found, La Fortune. 
LOST FRIDAY AT RIVERVIEW LODGE­35mm MINOLTA CAMERA-PLEASE RETURN FOR REWARD!!!! 284-5146 
LOST SILVER BEADED BRACELET ­REWARD 284-5119 
Have you loa! an umllrel lately? Did you leave It on a tray in tha dining hall? Wei then you're in luck. Call Anne at 1320 to claim It 
LOST: 1 dew g1au dangling h.-1­aheped ..-ring on 11/14; somewhere around Architecture bldg, south dining hall, or stadium lot. ~ found ~ call Stupid at 272-3379. Great sentimental value. Thanka. 
WANTED 

Can you help me? Grad student needs rids to Youngatown, Ohio for Turkey Break. Make my paren.. happy, please call Laura at272·6014 
Need riders to Atlanta area 11/27-12/1. Call Ed 232-8230. 
TAKE liE HOME, PLEASE I'd Aka to go to II. PMII, Ill~ tor l'hanllallvl,. ancll'd Ike to belhenll­tul to you tor glvf,. me a ride. I _.. ....,.anytime 11ft.-J:24 p.m. llondlly. "'--0811 John at 1184. 
FOR SALE 
76 TOYOTA WAGON 4-CYLINDER, 4 SPEED. SOME RUST. RUNS VERY WEll PRICE: $750 2n-5294 EVENINGS. 
DIR DRV TURNTABLE W/SHURE CARTRIDGE:EXC COND:CALl MATT 3926/3234 
FOR SAL: LSU GA AND STUD TIX CALl 
2309 

Ride needed to Syracuse, NY (Manllua) for Thankaglving. PJeue call Margaret 4088. 
Need ride to L.l. or NYC. Will ahara ex­peMaa. Can leave 11 /26. Call Rod at x176B. 
RIDERS TO CHI-O'HARE OR VICINITY FOR TURKEY BREAK. CALL STEVE 3318 
Rldera needed to Athena/Atlanta area, laavinil Wed. Nov. 26, returning Sun. Dec. 
1. Call Mike at 1806. 
HELPDON'TLEAVEMESTRANDEDAT SMC! NEED RIDE TO CINCINNATI FOR THANKSGIVING BREAK PLEASE CALL ANNE AT 284-5409 Will SHARE IN EX­PENSES 
TICKETS 
NEED GA'S FOR LOUSIANA ST. 4 TDGETt'fER OR 2PR. CALL BtllX3467. 
LSU GAa FOR SALE.272-6306 
WILL PAY ANY PIUCE FOfl EmlER TWO Ofl TH..EE LIU CIA'S. PLEASE CALL ...UCE AT 4501 ANYTIME. 
TO SEll-LSU STU TICKET·2741-ASK FOR GRACE. 
FOR SALE • 2 LSU STUDENT TICKETS CAll 284-4425 
NEEDED:2GA'a and student TX tor LSU­1254. 
Need Two LSU GA'a or Student Tickets call John at4073 
Ll WHO? LIUIII I need student tickets for LSU. Call Mary at1367. 
PERSONALS 
-Richard Bach, Thellrlclge .Acrc.e F-W 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER l LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N., 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
Earn SSS for all those books you didn't read!l PANDORA'S wil buy your used books M-F 11-4. or we can halp you find a used book for a clau. We're open M-F 11­6, SAT l SUN 1Q-5. PANDORA'S ia op­poaite CORBY'S at937 South Bend Ave. 
Need a ride to DC/MD/VIR for two. WiU ahwe Uaual. Cell Martin at3274. Wil tel funny jokaa during ride. 
ANTOITAL ANTa.TAL ANTa.TAL 
ANYTIME! ANYWHERE! I NEED A RIDE TO CHICAGO FOR THANKSGIVING BREAK! CALL MARY AT 1323 IF YOU CAN HELP ME OUT AND WE'll CHAT! 
DAD,DOIUI,IUMN,PATTY,JOHN HAPPY THANKSGIVING! ' 143, PRISCILLA 
CREAM YOU" FAVOlUTE LYONITEIII C"EAII YOU" FAVOlUTE LYDNIT£111 FOR JUST $3 YOU CAN EXPERIENCE THE CHILDISH DELIGHT OF THIIIOWING A PIE AT ANY LYONS GIRL! SIGN UP TUES OR WED DINNER IN SOUTH DINING HALL, OR WATCH FOR THE SIGN-UP FORM IN MON· DAY'S OBSERVER. PIES Will BE THROWN FlU NOV 22, 4:00 UNDER LYON'S ARCH. ALl PROCEEDS TO NO'S ADOPTED CAMBODIAN FAMILY. C"EAIII YOU" FAVOlUTE LYDNIT£111 CREAM YOU" FAVOf'ITE LYONITEIII 
Happy Birthdey, Dan I LOVE YOU, An­nene 
LOST FRIDAY AT RIVERVIEW LODGE­MINOLTA 35mm CAMERA -PLEASE RETURN FOR REWARD!!!! 284-5146 
MADNESS returna to Notre Dame for LSU. Taco John's anyone? 
Thanka to all who made my 21st a special day! I'm bl-ed to have you u friends. Scoop 
Hey Jeka! Here's that per.anal you've been looking for. How -the AHEM movie? Are you 8Ure you ahould be walching those? I mean, doaa Jean ap­
prove? Jake and Jean aitlin' in a tree, K­u--g. Love, Gu-who. 
eo cal people--mon l tuaa we the LAST daya to get thoae plane tickets home to LA for xmu for a mere $289 rt! Bus wil be provided to ORO eo go to 111 Source Travel now! 
Rob, 11'1 finlahed!! Only nine mrxe deya until the next one ia due. Oh well! Thanka for being • friend. Love, Rob 
MR. ROB SAYS: JOHN AND CHRIS ARE NICE, TALENTED, SMART, HANDSOME, NOBLE, and ALl­AROUND SWELL GUYS. I GUESS MR. ROB KNOWS WHAT HE'S TALKING ABOUT. I REALLY MUST MEET CHRIS SOMEDAY. 
JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS OFF-CAMPUS AND TRANSFERS GET YOUR DOG BOOK II PICTURES TAKEN AT THE JUNIOR CLASS OFFICE!! MONDAY, NOV. 181:30-3:00 
TUESDAY,NOV.194:0Q-6:00 JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS 
Aa Marge aaya, "You have to kiu a lot of toads before you find your handsome 
prince." 
HUNGRY? CaH YEllOW SUBMARINE 
at 272-HIKE. Delivery houra: 5prn-12pm 
Mondey-Thruadey: 5pm-2am Friday: 
3pm-1am saturday: and 4prn-10pm Sud­
nay. 
TO THAT CALIFORNIA GIRL MOIRA: You MAJOR babe' Today ia your 19th birthday and what "action" filled yeara they have been. From "Felix" to a "high" by the lake and then thoae infamous pari...,._ toldy shattered, right? Your neverending afternoon partiaa filed with laughter and poppera-you are eo TIGHT! And who can forget the STUFF?! Your neighb<n down the haH wiah you a very Happy Birthdtoy and many more. Let's party it up and have an awesome time. We love you. Peggy and Kathy. 
I LOVE REN RtE VEY, EVEN IF I CAN'T 
SPEll. 

"C'mon, dad, won't you gimme the cllf tonight!"-The new Violent Femmaa album ia due out next week. 
FEEL UKE YOU'"E ALONE IN A CltOWD? DEVOTING LAME AMOUNTS OF ENERGY TO THE TAlK OF APPEARING 'NOftiiAL'? II&All, KID, YOU'"E SUIMOUNDED aY FIUENDS. CONTACT QAYI & LD­...... AT ND/IIIC, P.O. IIOX 114, NOTWE DAilE, IN 41HII, FOfl CON­FIDENTIAL INFOfiiiATION. 
MOIRA:I wanted to wri1e something truly obnoxioua,aomething that would make for an interaating week. Firat I thou~tllbout aaying something about aex(l ,_n !he oppoaite ona), butt raliize that we've uid it aii.(Uaually in the morning when it'a euier to puah around) Then I thought about pulling you up for ule again,but, again no. I wouldn't do that again unlaaa my aoon-to-be-publiahed-book. The LE'a Guide to: qu881iona you -• afraid to uk, but aaked anywaya and dis covered that no one knaw the anawera, doaa not show profits. So juat keep a 1.-11 on your harM and remember that I love you. Sin­
cerely, Di P.S. HAPPY BIRTHDAY!! 

YO YAHWESS!ExCU18 MelOn your Birthdey I would like to wish you a year fuM of wild times and narrow Heapea from the one who lurka in the doorway!Luv ya!RH 
JOHN JOE HEARN JOHN JOE HEARN 
JOHN JOE HEARN 
Karen, A life size treat?!Thanka' D. 

WHY DOESN'T ANYBODY STAY 
TOGETHER ANYMORE? 

The Observer Monday, November 18, 1985 -page 9 
Men's, women's basketball teams hold Blue-Gold games 
Rivers ~hines; charity profits 
ByPHILWOLF 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame men's basketball fans got their fii"S( good look at the Irish last night, and local charities made $3,735, as the Irish played their annual lntrasquad scrimmage in the Ath­letic and Convocation Center. 
Marathon Oil Company Eponsored the scrimmage, which foUowed the Notre Dame women's intrasquad game. The proceeds from the 2,551 spectators will be split by Logan Center and the Neighborhood Study Help Program In South Bend. 
The Irish played for 20 minutes under game conditions and I 0 additional minutes with a running clock. After the first period, the Gold team led the Blue, 65-42. The score was reset for the second period, In which the Gold team scored 27 points to the Blue's 18. 
Sophomore guard David Rivers led all scorers with 1 5 points for the gold team in the first period and eight for the blue in the second. 
Gary Voce, who played the entire game in a blue jersey, led all scorers for his squad with 23 points, and he led all rebounders with 11. Blue teammateJoseph Price added 14 points. 
Six players scored In double figures for the gold squad, led by Scott Hicks' 18 points. Freshman guard Mark Stevenson had 16 points, Tim Kempton scored 14, Ken Barlow 
1 3 and Donald Royal 12 to go with Rivers' 15 Gold points. 
Freshman forward Sean Connor scored 
nine points for the blue team, while classmate 
Michael Smith scored four as a Blue guard. 
Freshman forward Steve Nicgorski did not 
shoot In his three minutes ofplay. 
The scrimmage was fast-paced, as both teams let the other shoot without much pressure on the ball. Several players' slam dunks and some f.mcy passing by Rivers, who had six assists, brought cheers from the small crowd. 
Irish head coach Digger Phelps refused to comment on the performance of his players. 
Notre Dame will play host to the Smelt Olimpija club from Yugoslavia Wednesday at 7:30p.m. and open its regular season at home against St. Joseph's (Ind.) on Friday night at 7:30. 

.......--........-........ ......... 
'~ 
Freshman Sean Connor brings tbe ball up-court against fellow newcomer Mark Steven­son. Details on tbe men's tntrasquad game 
Sundlly'a RMUita 

Gold 92, Blue 60  
Blua(60) M FG-A  FT·A  R  F  p  
Dolan  21  1-4 o-o  7  3  • 2  
Connor  26  4-11  1-2  3  2 9  
Voce  30 10-16  3-4  11  3 23  
Smith  30  2-6  o-o  2  1 4  
Price  30  6-13  2-3  3  2  14  
Nicgorski  3  o-o  0·0  0  0  0  
Rivers  10  4-5  0-0  0  0  6  
150 27-59  6-9  26  11  60  

FG Pet.-.458. FT Pet.-.667. Team rebounds· 0. Tur­novers· 12. Assists ·11 (Smith 4). Technical&-!'one. 
Gold(92) 

M FG-A FT·A R F P Barlow 27 5-7 3-5 5 5 13 Royal 26 4-7 4-4 2 2 12 Kempton 24 7-9 0-2 10 3 14 Rivers 20 7-9 1-1 2 0 15 Hicks 26 9-16 0-0 7 2 16 Stevenson 23 6-11 0-1 4 6 16 Dolan 2 2-2 0-0 1 0 4 
150 42-61 8-13 31 20 92 
FG Pet.· .689. FT Pet.· .615. Team rebounds -1. Tur· novers-6. Assists-16 (Rivers 6). Technicals-none. Halftime-Gold 65, Blue 42 Officials-Bob Szrom, Dave Towner, ZJim Reinebold. A-2,551. 
·­


.. ... 

Happy Birthday 


Mark 

,, 
,~



FAVORITE 
, ~ 

. ·~ LYONITE!~ 
...... .. -...... ...... ..... --...
---.. --. .. 
t ~ 1 ~ Experience the childish delight of throwing a pie at any Lyons girl. Choose your target, fill out , the form below, and mail or turn in Tues or Wed at 1 t 'II dinner, South Dining Hall. The cost is $3, which benefits N.D.'s adopted Cambodian family. .. _...,._........ .... ....,_ ... ....-1\-o.,.._.,1 
~.,........_..,.,.,_ '\11\-_e.J~.\11'-_,..,..11... _,..,."_.,__.....,\1.-1\-;......_,..
tp• ·• ._. ._. ·• ·-._. ­Pie throwing will take place Fri. Nov 22. at 4.•00pm underLyon.. Arch. t ~ 
... .... ...... .... ·-.-... ...... ....... 
· -N.• -· • · -.-· • ·• ,t 
·~Your arne______ phone ____-f'P' 
appear at left while details on tbe women's 
game appear at right. 
Sundlly'a RMUita 

Gold 32, Blue 30  
Blue(30)  
M FG-A FT-A  R  
Keys  18  3-7  0-1  4  
Bunek  16  3-7  0-2  5  
Both am  11  4-9  o-o  4  
Gavin  14  1-5  o-o  1  

Ebben 17 3-4 O-Q206 Kuhns 5 o-1 o-o o 1 o Toney 6 1-2 o-o o o 2 Willis 50..00..0110 
100 15-35 ()-3 17 6 30 FG Pet.-.429. FT Pet.-.000. Team rebounds-0. Tur­novers-6. Assists-7 (three with 2) Technicals-none. 
Gold(32)  
M FG-A  FT-A  R  
Kuhns  15  4-5  0-0  2  
Willis  15  Q-2  3-4  3  
Brommeland  20  6-9  1-1  5  
Basford  11  0-0  0-0  2  
Toney  11  1-2  0-0  2  
Barron  10  Q-1  0-0  1  
Gavin  5  o-2  o-o  1  
Ebben  3  1-1  o-o  2  

Bunek  30..00..0000  
Both am  4  1-2  2-2  0  1  4  
100 13-24  6-7  18  6  32  

FG Pet.-.542. FT Pet.-.857. Team rebounds-0. Tur­novers -12. Assists -7 (Toney3). Technicals-none. Halftime-Gold 15, Blue 12. Officials-Dick Kalahar, Jim 
Thomas,. A-2,551 . 

·~~----------------------------------------~

CREAM YOUR 
Canyouaffordto gamble 
with the LSAT,-GMAT, 
G~,or MCAl? · 
ProbaoJy not. Great grades 
alone may not be enou~h t9 
impress the graa school of _your choice. Scores play a part. And 
that's how Stanley H. Kaplan ca~{:1k~plan course teaches test-taking techniques, reviews course subjects, and increases 
the odds that you'll do the best you cando. So if you've been out of school for a while and need a refresher, or even if you're fresh out ofcollege, do what over 1
miUion students have done. Take Kaplan. Why take! 
a chance with your 
career? 

Targets nam~------------.a,, KAPLAN 
STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL GNTER LTD 
Why doe~ she deserve a pie? ________. Would you like to throw on Nov 22?___,.•• 
' Send completed torm and $3 via campus mail to Rm 304 Lyons or drop off at dinner Tues of Wed in SOH. ~... 
.... .... --·-.... ·----.p
·-.. ·-·---... .. 
The worlds leading test prep organization. SOUTH BEND AREA Stanley H. Kaplan Ed. Ctr. 1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 46637 
(219)'272·4135 
F P 1 6 1 6 
1 6 
1 2 
F  P  
1  6  
1  3  
0  13  
1  0  
1  2  
0  0  
1  o  

o 2 

Kuhns scores 8 for Gold squad 
By MARTY BURNS 
Assistant Sports Editor 
It may have looked like just another Infor­mal practice session last night at the ACC when the Notre Dame women's basketball team staged its 1985 charity intrasquad scrimmage. But to Irish head coach Mary DiS­tanislao, who is trying to fine tune her team into a national contender after last year's successful 20-8 season, there was more to It than met the eye ofthe casual observer. 
The game, which featured two 10-minute halves and which allowed for several abrupt jersey switches from Blue to Gold, gave the Irish coaches a chance to see not only the reactions of the new players on the team to game situations but also to test the depth on the roster. Although the match showed DiS­tanlslao enough areas of needed repairs to keep her occupied until the season opener at Purdue Nov. 30, there were also enough pleasant sights to give Irish fans high hopes for the upcoming season. 
"I think one thing we showed tonight is that we have depth," said DiStanislao. "We also showed good scoring balance. But I also saw that we have a lot to work on. I'm glad tonight was only the scrimmage and not the first game." 
If it had been the first game of the season, most likely DiStanislao would have gone with the five players that constituted the Blue team. This squad, featuring guards Mary Gavin and Lynn Ebben with center Sandy Botham and forwards Trena Keys and Heidi Bunek, of­ficially lost to the Gold, 32-30, although several members ofboth teams changed sides. 
A key figure for the Gold, meanwhile, was 
5-10 freshman forward Uh Kuhns, who 
poured in eight points toward the winning 
cause and who overshadowed solid perfor­
mances by fellow-newcomers Bunek and 
guard Diondra Toney. Bunek contributed six 
points and five rebounds, while Toney 
showed poise at the point for both 5quads. 
"We saw tonight that the freshman are going to make a regular contribution to this program," said DiStanlslao. "Diondra (Toney) did a really good job running both teams. Heidi ( Bunek) and Lisa (Kuhns) had a few early butterflies to work out, but they too played very well." 
A scrimmage is still just a scrimmage, however, and the true test wiU come when the season begins. On that day, the other team won't be wearing Notre Dame jerseys. 

McCandless nips the Crush, takes SMC flag football title 
JILL SARBENOFF 
Sports Writer 
Holy Cross knocked offpreviously unbeaten McCandless 21-14 in overtime to win the St. Mary's lnterhall flag football championship yesterday afternoon on Madeleva Field. With the victory, the Holy Crush ended their season with a 4-3 record. Air McCandless finished at 6-1. 
Throughout the first half, both teams played exceptionally.wen. During its first possession, McCandless found the endzone. The play was called back, however, because of a clipping penalty. A few minutes later, McCandless scored on a long run. The extra point was good, and the score as the halfended was 7-0. 
ln the third quarter, Holy Cross tied the game, but soon feU ~hind again when McCandless scored another touchdown, making the score 14-7. 
With under three minutes left in the game, Holy Cross quarter­back Barb Dorini threw a 53 yard flea-flicker pass to janine Adamo. From McCandless's seven yard line, the Crush scored on a trap play. With thirty seconds left on the clock, the score was tied at 14. 
In overtime, each team was given four downs from the 10 yard line in which to get into the endzone. Holy Cross scored on its first try on a reverse to Patty Petro. The extra point was made on an option play to Cathy Bove. When McCandless failed on its attempt to tie-up the score, the game was over. 
Julie McNish, a member of the Crush squad, commented on her team's blocking skills. "Our offensive line pulled us together and did an excellent job, McNish said." 
She cited Kelly Hayes, Jeanne Power and Patty Petro among others as having a really good game. Many members of the team felt that their coaches, joe Donnelly, Mike Kennedy, Mark Neroni and Mark Ward were instrumental in the victory. 
"Everyone played perfectly. They really wanted to win," com­mented Neroni. "McCandless had a good defense. We just wanted to win more." 
The Observer Monday, November 18, 1985 -page 1 0 

Irish finish twelfth in cross country meet 
By MIKE SZ\'MANSKI 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's cross­country team fell short of its season­long goal of qualifying for the NCAA Division I nationals when they placed 12th out of 23 teams at the district meet at Indiana University Saturday. There were at least a few bright spots in the season finale. 
One of those positive notes was the performance of freshman sensa­tion Ron Markezich who at 50th place was the top Irish finisher. 
"Ron has helped us all season and will be a very good one," said Irish · coachJoe Piane. 
Following Markezich were Tom Warth, Craig Maxfield and Tim Diamond. John Magill finished in 72nd place to round out the scoring in a fairly tight pack finish. 
"We were not agressive at the start," said Plane. "The weather was extremely wet and muddy, and in those adverse conditions you can­not make up ground at the end ofthe race. 
"We wanted to have our pack in 
the top 45 to 55 runners at the first 
kilometer," Plane noted, "but we 
ended up in the SO's out of I 70 run­
ners. The fact that the race was 
10,000 meters long had no bearing 
on the results. 
"Maxfield and Diamond both had 
good performances, which bodes 
well for next year." 

They will be returning along with Collins and sophmore Dan Garrett who placed 15th at last year's race but red-shirted this season due to a hip injury. 
Wisconsin ran away with the meet, followed by Purdue, Eastern Michigan and Miami (Ohio). 
"I think we could qualify (for the nationals) if the race were tomor­row because we are in great condi­tion. We just had a bad race," said Plane. 
Tim Hacker of Wisconsin won in­dividual honors and Mark Hansen of Marquette placed second, while the Irish season-long number-one man Jim Tyler was seventh on the team. Plane was quick to point ou~ this season's positive points, though. 
"Jim had a very good season, while the team shined by winning the Ohio State tri-meet against a tough Missouri Baptist team. We competed very well in the National Catholic Meet (finishing third), at the State meet, and at the Midwes­tern Championship~." 
Plane is confident that his cross 
country runners will excel in the 
track season. 
"They are in the best possible 
shape right now, barring injuries." 


Bears rout Cowboys 
The undefeated Chicago Bears clinched the National Football Con­ference's Central Division yester­day, capitalizing on touchdown Interceptions by Richard Dent and Mike Richardson to hand the Dallas Cowboys the worst loss of their 26 history, 44-0. 
The victory was the Bears' 11th straight and came at Texas Stadium in Irving. where Chicago Coach Mike Dltka worked for nine years as an assistant under Cowboys Coach Tom Landry. The start was the best for the Bears since 1942. 
"Beating them was no big deal," 
Ditka said. "The big deal is being 11­
0 and winning the Central Division." 
The Cowboys, meanwhile, 
dropped to 7-4 and could lose the ·lead In the NFC east if the 7-3 New York Giants win at Washington tonight. 
In other games, the NewYorkJets clobbered Tampa Bay 62-28, Adanta defeated the Los Angeles Rams 30­14, Miami beat Indianapolis 34-20, Cleveland defeated Buffillo 1 7-7, Green Bay downed New Orleans 38­14, Pittsburgh defeated Houston 30­7 and Philadelphia beat St. Louis 24-14. 
In later games, it was San Fran­cisco 31, Kansas City 3; Los Angeles Raiders 13, Cincinnati 6; Detroit 41, Minnesota 21; New England 20, Seatde 13, and Denver 30, San Diego 24 in overtime. Denver's victory put the Broncos one game ahead of the Raiders and two over Seatde in the AFC west, while Pittsburgh took over the lead in the AFC central. 
The Bears led 24-0 at halftime, despite playing without No. 1 quar­terback Jim McMahon who is out with tendinitis in his shoulder. Steve Fuller went the distance at quarter­back again for Chicago. 
The Chicago defense, meanwhile, handed the Cowboys their first shutout loss since they lost 38-0 to St. Louis in 1970. 
Jets 62, Bucs 28 
Ken O'Brien threw for five touch­downs, three ro Mickey Shuler, and theJets set a team scoring record by routing Tampa Bay. 
· The Bucs led 14-0 in the first quartJ:r, but by the time the first half· had ended, the Jets had set another team record by scoring 41 points. O'Brien completed 23 of 30 at­tempts for 367 yards. 
All ofShuler's TO receptionscame 
in the second quarter. O'Brien also 
hit Wesley Walker for one touch­
down, and his final scoring pass of 
the day came on a 78-yard play with 
rookie AI Toon in the third period. 
The Jets, 8-3, lost rushing leader Freeman McNeil to a minor leg in­jury late in the first quarter. The Bucsare 1-10. 
Falcons 30, Rams 14 
Gerald Riggs ran for 12 3 yards and three touchdowns as Adanta raced 


Offensive linemen Sbawn Heffern (52) and 
Chuck Lanza (51) doubleteam 

to a 23-0 lead after three quarters, handing the Rams their third loss in four weeks. The Falcons, 2-9, held Los Angeles scoreless until the fourth quarter, when Dieter Brock threw for one touchdown and Eric Dickerson ran for another. The Rams are 8-3 atop the NFC West. 
Riggs set a club record by rushing for more than 100 yat;ds in his fourth straight game. 
Adanta converted two of five tur­

novers by Los Angeles into 10 points 
within a 65-second span in the first 
quarter. 
Dolphins 34, Colts 20 

Miami, which trailed 10-0 in the first quarter, got 330 yards passing from Dan Marino to rally over In­dianapolis. Jtookies Lorenzo Hampton and Ron Davenport score two touchdowns >apiece for the Dol­phins. 
Marino had only 27 yards passing in the first period and 108 in the first half, but he threw for 196 yards in the third quarter alone. 
The Dolphins, 7-4, tied the score 

13-13 at halftime, then Davenport 
and Hampton each ran for short 
yardage touchdowns in the third 
period. Marino also threw a 17-yard 
m to Davenport in the quarter. In­
dianapolis is 3-8. 
IS AN MBA IN YOUR 
FUTURE? 
The Kogod College of Business Administration at The Al!terican Unlvenlty offers you an excellent opportunity for graduate business education in our nation's capital. Qualified candidates may begin their studies in fall, spring or summer sessions. Programs may be completed on a full-time or part-time basis with courses offered in both day and evening formats. 
In addition to the MBA, the College offers the Master of Science degree in Taxation as well as in other specialized professional fields. For further information, call (202) 885-1908 or maillhe following form to: 
Koaod Colleae of --....::----------------------------. luslness I am interested in the following graduate business fields: Ad111lnlstradon 
O"Accounting D Personnel and Industrial Relations
Office of Student 

Affairs D Finance D Procurement Managell'ent Tlle A111erfc:.n D International Business D Public Relations Manajlement (MS only) University D Marketing D Real Estate and Urban Development Wuhlnaton, DC D Operations Analysis D Taxation (MS only) 
10016 

Name Address-------------------­
[ City------------------­State---------------Zip ____ 
Tilt: :::an Univ•roily l••n Telephone(__) ---------------­
E!O/Affl~tiw Action Institution L.---------------------------__
._1 

a Penn State 
~[3~~~~~~ 
LOOKING FOR A 

d.l®l:J~ 

SCOTT, SANDER & ASSOCIATES OFFERS YOU ANALTERNATIVE: 
SS&A'S. "RECRUITERS GUIDE TO SELECT SENIORS' PROVIDES YOU WITH A DIS· 
TINCT COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE YOU AVOID THE HEADACHES OF NUMEROUS COVER 
LETTERS. RESUMES. AND FOLLOW UP CALLS WHILE BEING IDENTIFIED AS PART OF A 
PREFERRED GROUP 
PROFESSIONALS AT SS&A EVALUATE AND CHOOSE "SELECT SENIORS". TAKING 
INTO ACCOUNT APPLICANT.$' DIVERSE QUALIFICATIONS (SUCH AS LEADERSHIP 
EXTRA· CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES. ACADEMICS. AND OTHER ACHIEVEMENTS! 
SS&A THEN PROVIDES A COMPREHENSIVE PRE· SCREENED POOL OF CANDIDATES 
TO HUNDREDS OF CORPORATIONS. INCLUDING NUMEROUS FORTUNE 500 COMPANIES 
THIS PROCESS ALLOWS COMPANIES TO REVIEW OUR "RECRUITERS GUIDE' KNOW· lNG THAT MUCH OF THEIR WORK IS ALREADY DONE 
IF YOUR CREDENTIALS DESERVE FULL CONSIDERATION AND BROAD EXPOSURE· SEND FOR YOUR SIMPLIFIED TWO· PAGE APPLICATION TODAY Pnnt clearly on a card your name. mail· 1ng address. phone number. umverSIIy. and career Interest. along w1th a 525 non· refundable processm!,j fee (check or money order) payable to Scott. Sander & Associates Incorporated P 0. Box 5459. Ch1cago. ll. 60680·5459 
ISN'T YOUR CAREER WORTH THE INVESTMENT" 

Scott. Sander & Associates 
Incorporated 


130 U.S. 31 North 1 Mile North of Campus 
277-4519 FREE DELIVERY 

r-------~---------~-------,
1 Monday 1Wednesday I Sunday 1 
I I I
I

1 14",1 item I 16",1 item 18",1 item 1


I $5.951 $7.95 I $9.95 [ 
L 
Call beforeTi I Call before 11 I Call before 9:30 1 .-.~f!II!I~~~-------L------..~ 

~-~ ~~---~----------------~------------­



']I['~t:ll.at~------------------------------------------M--o_n_d_a_y,_N b_~_r_l_s_,_19•8·5---.P.ag_e
o.ve.m l..l 
Bloom County 

Zeto 
8 
l
i ''11!1f"AM 17CI<£r~ 
j  IN 1'188.  
!  ;r  
1\  


f!tfki€€N NOW IINP 7:15 1?11/. 1lJN/61fT, f'lCIIS€ 17111/.. : 1-800·555-6001 IF >W 
fl(fl'!f( 1fEt1€W, fMf'f{'(Jvef? IKJ5t. 1-800·555-6002 IF YO() 
M£FEK TTE Ot./1, ''CtiiS51C" N05£. Of( 1-800·555-6003 IF 'tfJ(J 1HIM<. 1V ei!IIN6e/..151 PM IVJ/Jti(T5{JN, W11H OR WrrHOI/T II NOSe, ~ Tlf.Mf l/f WtrH tJH116WIIN 5HRE€ I?JIJ!E&SH 1/N/1 f()((M A R£PU8UCfiN 

ACROSS 1 Cut off 6 Armor 
10 Genesis name 14 Egg-shaped 15 Tuscany river 16 Venus de­17 Fallto 
satisfy 19 Seller's 
condition 20 Stout 21 Corn units 22 An easing of 
grief 24 83 D e.g. 28 Meerschaum 
and calumet 27 Uses a bike 30 Napping 32 Former Ugan· 
dan leader 33 Principal 
Norse gods 34 Apparatus 37 Water storage 
tank 40 Pie­42 High mountain 43 Father 45 Surplus 46 Famed Eng. 
surgeon 48 Piercing cry 50 Play setting 52 Showing signs 
of old age 54 Baby bed 56 Store special 57 High card 80 Belgian river 81 Realized 84 Portent 85 Assert 86 Make scholarly 
corrections 87 Annoying one 88 Nothing more 
than 69 Impaired by disuse 
DOWN 1 Drink mixer 2 Depravity 3 Decorative 
container 
·'*'*'*'*'*'*'*'*'*'*''*''*''*''*''*''*'*''*''*'*'*'*tr-------,
# ETHNIC MINORITY LAW NIGHT -~+ REG~~iwc® 
-t+ Wednesday, Nov. 20 : 1WITH PURCHASE OF i+ 7·30 Law School Lounge .a.1.l REGUlAR FRIES AND
i+ . 'l'T MEDIUM DRINK 
+t *Law Professors Crutchfield and Le will discuss-f+ I .a.1. the role of minorities in the legal profession. * ~rfa!"ous_Rax roast beef, sliced. 
1")""" I th1n, pded hagh, and served on a-f+ , +)-sesame-seed roll. 
I 

.a.1. *Dean Mclean will diSCtJSS law school *IPleaoepreoentcouponbeforeonlering.One 
'l'T admission crl'teria and financial aid * couponperperoonperlli!Jit.NotV<Iiidlntomblna,tion
...sJ... • wtlh any other Rax offer. Offer~ at partJCipahng
'l'T Rax Restaurant•. 1120 cent cash redemptoon value. i+ *Question and Answer period involving : l•r'ltiSRaxRestaurants.Jnc. I 
: studeT~~~~.t~~~ev~nt~~c~~nu~~~~mld~:e;:hool panel* I Be:I 

©1985 Tribune Media services, Inc Frt'day's Solutt'on 
All Rights Reserved  
4 Timetable  
abbr.  
5 Annul  
6 Polynesian  
7 Grain bristles  
8 Caravansary  
9 Great amount  
1 0 Charlotte ­ 
11 Condemn  
12 Wonderland  
miss  
13 Biblical  
leader  
18 Butter dabs  
23 Musical play  
24 Declaim  
violently  
25 Attempt 27 Spotted rodent  11/18/85  
28 Author Ludwig  41 Additional  53 Mother-of·  
29 Offends  44 Bureau  pearl  
31 -Abner  47 Notch  55 Dutch cheese  
33 S.A. range  48 Fann building  57 Godofwar  
35 Brainchild  49 Talented  58 Small coin  
36 Seed  50 Ladle  59 Whirlpool  
36 A Ford  51 Pollee  62 Contraction  
39 Stool pigeon  concern  63 Blgblrd  

Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
WHY PO I HAVe 
1HeF6a.ING 1lJMORROW 1HIIT PeMOCI(IICY W6U.. IIN{J "HONK€(( t?ef..€115€ Ae5Tlff!T!CS' 1l{fRe51/t.70. MilK£ liN 
\ 
€XPt.O~IV£ COM~INAnON? 

\ 
Kevin Walsh 
iHB 

"Whoa! This just looks like regular spagheHII ... Where's my Earthworms Alfredo?" 

Campus 

rl2:00 P.M. · "Brown Bag Seminar", "Alternative Cuban Development Strategies: A Critical Appraisal" Pedro Monreal, Economist and Research Fellow, Room 131 Decio Hall, Sponsored by Helen Kellogg In­stitute for International Studies 
•4:45 P.M. -6:45 P.M. -Smoke-out, Informa­tion and Sign-ups for the Great American Smoke-out, American Cancer Society, North 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Salisbury Steak with Mushroom Gravy Stir Fry Chicken and Chinese Vegetables Fettucine Alfredo 

TV Tonight 

6:00P.M. 16 NewsCentc:r 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 6:30P.M. 16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBS Evening News 7:00P.M. 16 MASH 22 1hree's Company 7:30P.M. 16 Barney Miller 22 WKRP in Cincinnati 
8:00P.M. 16 TV Bloopers 

22 Scarecrow and Mrs. King 
28 Hardcastle and McCormick 
8:30P.M.  34 46  Wonderworks Calvary Temple  
9:00P.M.  16  Monday Night Child is Mine"  Movie:  "This  

22 CBS Special Movie: "Kane and Abel" • 
28 Monday Night Football: New 
March of Dimes 
Fight Birth Defects 

COLLEGIATE 
__,.JAZZ "" 
.FESTIVAL­
.. -­
Meeting: 

100 c.e.r........ 251-1241 
SO'• & 60'• Music 
OPEN 7 DAYI A WEEK AT 7 P.M. 

Tuesday, Nov 19 at 
1o M • L bbo"
p m In a In 0 y LaFortunefor 
FRESHMEN. SOPHOMORES 
ONI.Yit~...-. ~Ji=rcW llld..,.....

Underclassmen 
Dining Hall, Sponsored by University Food Services 
•7:00 
P.M. and 9:30P.M.-Movie, "Hamlet", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Shakespeare Club, $1.00 donation requested 

•7:30 
P.M. -Lecture, "Prisoners of Con· science", Sonny Venkatrathnam, South Africa Prisoner of Conscience, Stapleton Lounge, Sponsored by Amnesty International 


Saint Mary's Baked Ham Beef and Vegetable Stir Fry French Bread Pizza Cheese Omelet 

York  Giants  vs.  Washington  
Redsldns  
34  TheBrain  
46  Lc:sca AHve  
10:00 P.M.  34  First Platoon  

46 Africa, 1bc Silent Cry 

ll:OOP.M. 16 NcwsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 34 Body Electric 46 Praise the Lord 
11:30P.M. 16 Tonight Show l2 lkmiiJ8lon Steele/CBS Late Movie: "lbc Gift ofUk" 
34 FUm DuJour: "Abilene Town" 12:00A.M. 28 WS}V Newsw2tch 28 12:30A.M. 16 David Letterman Show 
28 ABC News Nlghdine 2:00A.M. 22 Nlghtwatch 46 Independent Network News 
WRrrE...Fr.o.t.1k: ­

.a.1. .s.t. interested in assistant
'l'T familiarize minority students with opportunities in the legal ::::r Offergood I 
Sc:hol8nhlp R.-dlS.W:. 

.a.1. ~,.,j, .• · :-•-.nJ Minority Night Is hostPd bv the Notre 'l'T I 3/8 i rJf •t• 
80S S. $tdaAw.

'l'T ~ 'awSchoolincooperatlonwlththeND/SMCPrelaw * thru 12/2 5. .I Sa pOSI IOnS. 

$'*''*''~ -~ ~·i''**''*'*'*''*'*'***'**'*'**'*? 1.-------....__________-_-__-_


.-J. 
Monday, November 18, 1985-page 12



S~orts 
Penn State routs Irish, locks up Orange Bowl bid 

Lions overcome weather · 
' 


ND bowl hopes dimmed 
By LARRY BURKE sloppy. Penn State scored points on Assistant Sports Editor eight of its first nine possessions, seven in a row at one point, and did 
STATE COllEGE, Pa. -Allen not turn the ball over once. Pinkett called it "Murphy's Law Rain fell in State College all mor­reenacted." All things considered, ning and afternoon long, and the that's a fairly accurate description of wind-chill factor made it feel like 20 the fate that Notre Dame suffered degrees on the field. But while the Saturday afternoon in the quagmire Irish performed like one might ex­that was Penn State's Beaver pect a team to perfrom hi such con­Stadium, losing 36-6 before an es­ditions, the Lions played almost timated 84,000 fans and a national errorless football. television audience. "I think football is a great game be­
Both teams came into the game cause you have to beat the other riding high. Head Coach Joe guy, the elements, and yourself," Paterno's Nittany Lions had their un­said Paterno. "I was not as con­defeated record and the top spot in cerned about the weather as far as the national polls, while Gerry our team was concerned. I thought Faust's Irish had the momentum ofa it would be a question ofwhichever 
four-game winning streak on their team was able to concentrate and side. When it was over, however, the not get careless with the football." Lions still had their perfect record That team was quite obviously and number-one ranking, while the Paterno's Lions, who fumbled the Irish had only the unpleasant ball just once all day despite the ad­memory of the worst Notre Dame verse conditions. defeat in II years. Things started out well for the 
"Granted they (the Lions) are a Irish, as quarterback Steve Beuerlein good football team, but we killed completed six straight passes on a ourselves," said Pinkett, who was game-opening drive to the Penn held to 61 yards on just 12 carries. State 21-yard line.John Carney caine "They're a team that doesn't make on to try a 38-yard field goal, but mistakes, and they capitalize on the that's when Notre Dame's problems mistakes of their opponents. They began. take what they get and today we Holder Hal Von Wyl had trouble gave them a lot." handling Rick DiBernardo's snap so 
lri!h quarterback Steve Beuerlein (7) attempts to his story at right, and Eric Scheuermann takes a Penn State moved to 10-0 with the he got up and rolled out to his right, recover a first-half fumble in Notre Dame's 36-6 look a the Lion's defense in his story below. win, and university officials an­looking to throw. His pass to tight loss to Penn State. Lany Burke bas game detail tn nounced yesterday that the Nittany end Tom Rehder was broken up in a 
Lions would accept a bid to take on crowd by safety Ray lsom, and the the Big-Eight champion in the Irish came away empty. 
Orange Bowl on New Year's Day. The Lions took over the ball and . 
The Irish, meanwhile, drop to 5-4 the momentum at that point, em­By ERIC SCHEUERMANN "We were just going to bend and Pinkett a big one we'll play good and with two Top-Twenty teams left barking on an 11-play, 79-yard drive AssistantSports Editor bend and not break," said Penn State defense, and I think we did." on the schedule ( LSU and Miami), that culminated in a 21-yard John 
safety Ray Isom. "After a while we When the Irish tried to pass, the they face a long uphill climb as far as ShaJfer to DJ. Dozier touchdown 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa-The score just tightened up and didn't bend at Lions shut that down also. After the post-season action is concerned. strike. ofthe massacre was 36-6. Seemingly all." first series when Beuerlein was per­"It's tough because we were at a Notre Dame stopped the Lions on a great offensive performance by The Lions held Irish tailback Allen fect, the Penn State secondary ad­point where we could control our their next possession, but as the day Penn State, right? Wrong. While the Pinkett, who had averaged 1 59 yards justed and was picked apart no own destiny," said Pinkett of the wore on the Irish defense wore 
Nittany Lions did pile up 295 total rushing in his previous three games more. Beuerlein, who also had defeat. "It's a shame we couldn't down. The Irish turnovers didn't yards against the Irish, it was the su­against them, to only 61 yards on 12 enjoyed fine days against the Lions cash in. But we've just got to get this help, as the Lions got the ball in good perb Penn State defense that won carries. Only once did he break into in his previous two encounters, was out of our system and think about field position most ofthe afternoon. this game. the secondary on a run from limited to 10 completions in 19 at­LSU. That's my last game in Notre Massimo Manca kicked the first of 
Notre Dame easily marched 62 · scrimmage. tempts for 94 yards. Overall, the Dame Stadium, and I just want to get his school-record five field goals to yards downfield on theirfirst posses­"I would have liked to have con­Irish passers could complete only 13 ready for that one." begin the Lions string of seven sion as quarterback Steve Beuerlein tributed more," said the muddied passes for 13 3 yards. Getting the Penn State game out straight scoring drives. Penn State completed six straight passes. But a Pinkett afterward, "But they just "If we could have punched the of their system won't be easy,. started that possession from the botched hold ruined a field goal at­played good defense. They did the ball in on one of the first few times though. There was a lot for the Irish Irish 43-yard line. Manca's second tempt that would have put the Irish job." we had it," said Beuerlein, "it would to forget: six fumbles (two lost), field goal, a 27-yarder, came midway up by a 3-0 score. "We thought we had to prevent have been a different story. But their three interceptions, a botched field through the second quarter after a From that point on, the Irish Pinkett from making big runs," said defense was strong and they stopped goal attempt, a blocked punt, and a Beuerlein interception gave Penn 
would not come close to scoring un­Penn State head coach Joe Paterno. us. After that, it was all downhill." blocked extra point, all of which State the ball at the Irish 34. 
til Hiawatha Francisco punched in a "He literally demoralized us last year These statistics tell only part of helped to set up 19 of Penn State's Later in the quarter, fullback Steve touchdown with only 3:33 remain­with the big runs. We didn't want the story. The Penn State defense 36points. Smith bulled over the left side from ing in the fourth quarter and the any 20 or 40 yard runs. We tried to To make matters worse, the Lions 
Lions leading 36-0. say to our kids if we don't give See LIONS, page 8 were as consistent as the Irish were see IRISH, page 8 
PSU defense stymies Irish attack 
Irish hockey team splits weekend series with St. Thomas 
By MARTY BURNS AssistantSports Editor Notre Dame hockey head coach Lefty Smith may just want to never close his eyes again after this weekend's action at the ACC. Friday the Irish made Smith's dreams come true, combining solid defense and staunch goaltending to beat visiting St. Thomas College, 5-3. Saturday's rematch, however, was a nightmare for the eighteenth-year Notre Dame mentor as his team  center Mike McNeill to put away a listless St. Thomas team, skating in its first game ofthe season. After that game, Smith praised his entire squad, especially goalie Tim Lukenda who turned away 40 Tommie shots in a strong effort in the Irish nets. "I think we got an excellent effort out of everyone," said Smith. "They skated hard and did a pretty good job forechecking and breaking out on offense. Timmy (Lukenda) came  two manpower advantages of their own. "I thought our penaltykilling did a really good job overall," said Smith. "And I thought we moved the puck around well on the power-play, al­though we didn't put it in too often." The Irish put it in when it counted, however, getting the lone tally of the first period when Sobilo beat Tommie goaltender Mike Tubbs from 15-feet out on a pass from winger Tim Reilly. Sobilo's ot­ peppered Notre Dame goalies Marc Guay and Jeff Henderson, picking up 1 0 goals in 40 shots on the net for the game. Although much of the credit should go to the visitors from St. Paul, Minn., who skated with a great deal more aggressiveness than they had the night before, Smith still felt his team had not come to play. "We had poor goaltending, poor defense and poor passing," said Smith. "Everything we did right last night, we didn't do tonight.  roared out to a 4-0 first-period lead. Three of these scores came with the Irish down a man, as the Notre Dame penalty-killers simply could not con­tain St. Thomas winger Paul Reifenberger. The Tommie standout scored two of his goals in the opening stanza and later added a second-period goal to notch the hat trick. Two second-period goals from Irish defenseman Bob Thebeau made it close for awhile, but the Tommies were not to be stopped,  
sleepwalked through a 10-3 beating from the Tommies.  up with two really good days in practice last week, so we started him  her power-play goal was the back­breaker, coming 17 seconds into the  "St. Thomas played better tonight, but at the same time I think some of  scoring three more times in both the second and third .frames to finish ·off  
tonight, and he had himself a really  third period and giving Notre Dame  our guys thought they would walk  the dazed Notre Dame team.  
In fact, the Saturday crowd of just  good game."  the winning margin at 4-2.  all over them. They have to realize  
under  1,000  thought  they  were  Although St. Thomas, a Division II  that just because you beat a· team  For the 3-7 Irish, who will close  
dreaming when they saw the Irish  The  real  key  to  the Irish win,  power which beat the Irish twice  once doesn't mean you're going to  out this brief homestand Thursday  
come out so flat after their success  though, was in the area of special  last season, could not mount a com­ beat them every time."  evening against Lake Forest, the split  
the night before. In that game on  teams. Notre Dame's penalty-killer's  eback before the final buzzer Friday,  Guay, who got the start in the Irish  over  the weekend  can  serve  one  
Friday, Notre Dame got two goals  shut out St. Thomas in five power­ it made up for the delay the follow­ net, was not beaten every time, but it  valuable  purpose in Smith's eyes.  
apiece from winger Rich Sobilo and  play advantages, while converting  ing night. The Tommies repeatedly  seemed  like  it  as  the  Tommies  Maybe it will wake them up.  
-----------------------­ 






