
Zahn withdraws -page 3 

VOL XIX, NO. 86 !Ill' indqX"ndl'lll ~ludenl Ill'\\ ~paper ~lT\ ing IH>In dame .md ~ainl mar~·~ MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1985 


Notre Dame hoops team returns to cheering fans 
ByJOHN MENNELL 
AssistantNews Editor 
The Notre Dame basketball team was greeted by the chill ofthe arctic and the warmth of jubilant fans as they stepped off the bus at the Notre Dame main circle at 2:50 this mor­ning. 
Following yesterday afternoon's away game against UCLA, a student manager made contact with Student Body President Rob Bertino who quickly coordinated the welcoming of the team. 
Bertino phoned all the hall presi­dents who had signs placed in all the dorms, he said. He had also con­
. tacted some off-campus students. "We want people to be there," he said. 
Notre Dame had not beaten UCLA in basketball in their last seven at­tempts. 
Approximately 1,000 students and a make-shift band filled Notre Dame Ave. from the circle to the end ofthe Morris Inn parking lot. Prior to the bus' arrival, trees were strewn with toilet paper, and fireworks were lit as the crowd cheered. 
The bus was sighted at 2:35 a.m. and students rushed down Notre Dame Ave. to greet it. The bus took 1 S minutes to cover the length of Green Field. 
While the bus inched along more than 25 people climbed on top. Head Basketball Coach Digger Phelps smiled and waved from the front seat. 
At one point the bus door was opened just enough to allow Phelps to take a beer from the crowd which he opened and consumed. 
The team was engulfed by a mob of enthusiastic fans as they left the bus. Led by Phelps the team stood in front of the guardhouse of the main circle and held an impromptu pep­rally. 
Phelps opened by telling the crowd they were "the greatest stu­dent body ever." He reported telling 
see WELCOME, page 4 


Dry Driving Club to start Wednesday 
I 
By MARY CAROL CREADON 
SeniorStaffReporter 

The Senior-Alumni Club will begin its version of the "I'm Driving Club" program this Wednesday, said Senior Bar Manager Charley Moore and Student Government Alcohol Concerns Commissioner Bryan Dedrick. 
The idea for the "I'm Driving Club" was suggested by a similar program instituted at Marquette University in Oct. 1984. 
Senior Bar will be the first bar to implement the program in the South Bend area. 
The original club was founded in the Milwaukee area by Don Todd, of Restaurant Beverage Consultants, Inc., as an organization to help lower the number ofalcohol-related traffic accidents. 
According to Todd, 25,000 deaths annually are the result of alcohol­related accidents, and among per­sons under the age of 24, drunk driving is the leading cause of death in this country. 
Membership in the club at Senior Bar will simply require showing proofof being 21 and requesting an 
Defense, domestic cuts necessary on butiget 
from the 5.9 percent increase his 
budget seeks -after inflation is sub­
tracted -to a level of around 3 per­
cent. 

Such a move would help to reduce the deficit by Sl8 billion to $20 billion, Dole asserted. "No pres­ident ever gets precisely what he sends up in his budget message," he added. Dole was interviewed on the ABC-TV program "This Week with David Brinkley." 
"The president, I must say, is in a fairly comfortable position. He says, 'Don't touch Social Security. Don't touch defem.e. Don't raise taxes. And you can't touch interest on the (national) debt.' That doesn't leave a great deal," Dole added. "Those ofus 
see BUDGET, page 4 

''I'm Driving Club" ID card. The ID card may then be used anytime to receive free coffee or soft drinks if the member agrees to refrain from alcohol in order to drive others in his group home. 
Dedrick said the "I'm Driving Club" assume5. that members of the club will not abuse the system. The program was instituted as a commu­nity service, he said, and he hopes students will use their good judg­ment whenparticipatingin the club. 
"The Senior Bar management has 
been very cooperative in assisting us 
in founding the program at Notre 
Dame," Dedrick said. Senior Bar is 
anxious to se·~ the club succeed as 
well, Moore 2:dded. "My staff and I 
are very concerned about the prob­
lem of drinking and driving and 
we're willing to try any program that 
will combat the situation," said 
Moore. 

Even though Senior Bar will be 
losing money by sponsoring the 
club, Moore said, it is just another 
one of the precautionary measures 
Senior Bar will take to ensure the 
safety ofits patrons after leaving the 
bar. 

.,.~ 
APPhoto 
Ice flows in the East River on the Brooklyn Side ofthe Brooklyn Bridge as the skyscrapers of the Manhattan skyline stand in the background. Last weekend brought more arctic air through the country creating record low temperatures in many areas. The tem­perature in South Bend nearedzero last night. 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Congressional leaders of both parties said yester­day that President Reagan's $974 bil­lion budget is top-heavy with defense spending and is likely to un­dergo major revision, but they also agreed that deep domestic cuts are inevitable. 
Reacting on the eve of the budget's formal submission, House and Senate leaders predicted widespread congressional resis­tance to the budget's call for a mili­tary spending increase of some $31 billion over this year's levels. 
Senate Majority Leader Robert Dole, R-Kan., suggested that the GOP-controlled Senate might slice the president's defense proposal 
By DAN McCULLOUGH 
News Editor 
Keenan Hall shone like a brightly lit star on the North Quad early Sunday morning as Keenan Revue parties filled the dorm with noise, beer and people until4 a.m. 
Parietals were extended to 4 by special permission of the student affairs office. "This was an unusual request approved by student af­fairs because Keenan had to clean up O'Laughlin Auditorium's back­stage area. The residents couldn't return until I or I :30. If parietals were extended until 3, this would only give them about an hour for their party. Therefore, Mr. Goldrick (associate vice president for residence life) said 'all right.' " 
And as the hairs re~•cknt~ anll 
guests, invited and othen\-isc, cele­
brated their successful three-night 
run of the revue, Father David Gar­
rick, Keenan Hall rector, kept the 
party under control. 
"We enforced all of the rules," 
Garrick said. "There were no hor­
ror stories here whatsoever." 
According to Garrick, the party never went out of bounds. "Before the party occurred, it was under­.stood that the party was to be non­alcoholic. And that is what was 
enforced," he said. 
Keenan Hall President Kevin 
Howard said that Garrick told him 
ifthe party got out ofcontrol there 
would be no Keenan Revue party 
next year. 

Garrick said he and members of 
the hall staff patrolled the halls 
every I5 to 20 minutes "to check 
on alcohol being in the corridors." 
He said that there were some inci­
dents ofthis, but most people were 
cooperative in going back into the 
rooms. 
"We had cooperation from 
Keenan residents. Some guests, 
however, were not as 
cooperative," Garrick said. 
Howard agreed. "I think the Keenan people were all very well­behaved. We had a real problem, though, with the people from other dorms." 
He added that there might be some change next year, and there might be some limits on who will be allowed into the hall. "We're going to look at that next week 
when we look back on how the revue went." 
Although Howard said that there were no real problems at the party, "It was a little uncomfortable with all those people wandering through the hall." 

Last week, Garrick issued a letter 
to the residents ofthe hall advising 
them of the regulations to be en­

forced at the party. "I made it crys­
tal clear that this was a 
non-alcoholic party," he said. 
"The party was very civilized," Neil Keohane, the Revue's producer who helped to organize 
me party. "I think most of the people, and especially the Keenan residents, didn't want any prob­lems with the party and were very careful about obeying the policies of Father Garrick's letter." 

According to Keenan Junior Dave Stang, "As far as I know, what the letter said was enforced during the party." He added, however, that the corridors were unusually crowded. "You could barely walk through the halls." 
This year's party was bigger than the past two years, Stang said. 
Keohane attributed this to the popularity of the Revue. "Over the past few years, the Keenan Revue has gotten tile reputation of get­ting better and better every year. 
And there wasn't much else going on around campus. And it was very cold." 

Keenan Revue party brightens North Quad until4 a.m. 
.---------------------~----~------------~-----------------­
The Observer 

In Brief 
Basketballcoach Bob Knightonndiana made 
headlines last week when he cut his leading rebounder, Mike Giomi, for cuuing classes. Knight can take a more tender approach, though, and he did with another basketball player running into scholastic problems: 13-year-old Tim Harbaugh ofTerre Haute. Harbaugh was cut from the fifth-grade team at Deming School because of poor grades. Knight took the opportunity to throw a challenge to the boy. In a letter dated Jan. 29, Knight said, "It is very important that you pay as much auention to what you are doing in the classroom as you do on the basketball floor."· AP 
A highway funding bill that still needs congres· sional approval in the U.S. Senate would likely mean SI30 million dollars in new highway construction funds for Indiana, a state official said. The money Is part of more than S7 billion in federal highway and mass-transit funds raised through federal gasoline, diesel-fuel and truck taxes. The dollars were frozen after Senate and House con· ferees reached a stalemate last October over pet construction proj· ects attached to the bill, but a Senate commiuee last week took the 
first step in breaking the impasse. · AP 
Juveniles in Tippecanoe County Indiana are being placed under house arrest, but it's much more preferable to the alternative: jail. A program called In-House Detention allows some juvenile of· fenders to skirt a jail sentence by signing a contract with their par· ents in which the children's freedom is drastically restricted. Margaret Hand, a county juvenile court referee, andJeffrey Savitsky, a child clinical psychologist at Purdue University, said the programs offers diverse benefits. "Putting them in jail isn't always the answer," the referee ~aid. "Their home situation, being in school or holding a job can be very important to what happens to them. We need an alternative to releasing them without restrictions.". AP 
Noise is the most inescapable form of polution and one that poses a long list ofpotential health hazards. Scientific studies show it can harm the ears, reduce learning ability and possibly increase blood pressure, according to the March issue of Science Digest. There are even indications that it may injure the brain. John Mills, of the Medical College of South Carolina, believes the brain is "the most significant area in need of further study." He reports that in several experiments, 65 dcibels of sound · the noise level of an air conditioner · caused damage to the brain stem. · AP 
Of Interest 
The Natural Family Planning Program of St. Joseph county is again offering classes on campus this semester. "An Intro· duction to Natural Family Planning" class will be held tonight at 7 in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium. A introductory slide presentation in­troducing the natural methods offamily planning will be precede a discussion-and-question period. The presentation is free and open to the public. -The Observer 

Weather 
Snowflak.es have a 40 percent chance of appearance on this first Monday in February. Tonight the chance of snow will in· crease to 80 percent with a low of I5. Today's high will be 19, the 27th consecutive day that it has not reached 32 here in South Bend. -The Observer 

Today's issue was produced by: Production Consultant .................... Steve Design Editor ............................... Troy Illig Design Assistant .............. : .. Andi Schnuck LayoutStaff............................ Susan O'Dell 
The "Observer 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is 
Typesetters ................... Tracy Bringardner 
published Mon.Uy through Friday and Cathyann Reynolds on home football Saturdays, excrpt 
News Editor ........................... john Mennen
during exam and vacation periods. The 
Copy Editor .............................. john Heasly
Observer Is published by the studenL' of 
Sports Copy Editor ............. Marc Ramirez 
the University of Notre Dame and Saint 
Viewpoint Copy Editor......... Dave Grote
Mary's College. Subscriptions may be 
Viewpoint Layout................... Dave Grote
purchasc:d for I 30 pc:r year ( 120 pc:r se· 
Features Copy Editor.............. Sam Moore 
mcSicr) by writinglbe Observer, P.O. 
Features Layout ............•............. Andy Saal 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
ND Day Editor .......................... Katy Doyle 
lbe Obsener is a member of The 

Ad Design ........................ Suzanne LaCroix 
AliiiOdated Prrss. All rrproduction 
Pbotograpber ......................... Peter Laches
righL' are reKrvcd. 
-------~-----~----------­

Monday, February 4y-1985 -page 2 



Being unprepared would be worst fate for the U.S. 
The news has a familiar ring. Once again, the most powerful man in the world's second-most-powerful na· 
Mary
tion has come down with a serious but unspecified ill· 
ness. Konstantin Chernenko, it lieems, is going the way 

Healy
of his predecessor and nearing his death after only a 
year in office. 

Features Editor 
Along with this news, as usual, rumors are flying and 
speculation ballooning as the West tries in vain to peek 

over the mystery-shrouded walls of the Kremlin. 
Everybody is waiting with curiosity and apprehension. politics unusual for a Soviet dignitary. He tailored 
Is there a desperate struggle for power going on? Who speeches to suit his audiences. He seemed to be 
will succeed? Most important, what will the new working hard to push an image as a friendly, easy-to-get· 
leader's attitude be toward the United States? along-with politician. He smiled and waved at crowds 
This time the guesses aren't as random, though, be· and chatted wittily with the press. But for the elite in a 
cause it appears the Politburo has already chosen its government which takes such pains to hide its inner 
new leader. Mikhail Sergeivich Gorbachev is workings, appearances don't reveal much. 
everybody's bet for the next General Secretary of the In a display of apparent inditference to formalities 
Communist Party. For the past year or two, this man has Gorbachev skipped a wreath-laying ceremony at th~ 
been getting increasingly responsible posts and assign· tomb ofKarl Marx. 
ments that indicate a prepa· He has also showed a 
ration for the top job. quick temper. When asked 
At 53, Gorbachev is the about religious freedom in 
youngster ofthe Politburo­the Soviet Union he replied, 
part ofa new generation that "I could give you a few facts 
does not reme]llber the about human rights in the 
Revolution or the civil war. United Kingdom. For exam­
Since Breshnev's death, the ple, you persecute entire 
old guard has been hanging communities, entire 
on tightly, and the reigns of nationalities. You have 2.3 
Andropov and Chernenko, million unemployed. You 
who were already old and govern your society. You 
sickly when they took leave us to govern ours." 
power, may have been just a Currently it is rumored 
transitional phase to ease that most of Chernenko's 
the anxiety of handing the speeches are actually writ· 
reins over to the young set. ten by Gorbachev. If so, he 
Gorbachev, if he is cho· sees eye-to-eye with the 
sen, could signal the begin· 
usual hard-line stance 
ning of a new era in Soviet 2-~ toward the United States. 
leadership. He could con· There will be no visible 
ceivably rule for 20 years, or more. He may be less tied change in foreign policy when the new leader steps in, 
down by the caution and restraint ofthe older Politburo Kremlin watchers insist, because the Politburo is such a 
members. So far, the U.S.S.R.'s leaders have all been radi· tightly-knit group. Its object is to preserve the status 
cally ditferent from one another, and there is no reason quo; ifthere are any changes they will be slightly bolder 
to think Gorbachev will be an exception. economic reforms. 
Uke all Soviet leaders, Gorbachev lives under a cloud But attitudes and long-term policies are bound to be 
ofsecrecy and the West knows little about him. But it is affected once someone senles into officefor a long stay. 
worth taking a look at the man whose whims or ambi· And from the point ofview ofthe West, the worst thing 
tions could have great effect on the future course of to do is to be completely unprepared. 
world events. 

Unlike most Politburo members, who went to highly 
specialized technical schools, Gorbachev graduated 
from the law school of Moscow State University. The 
The views expressed in the Inside colwnn 
son of a peasant, he later became an expert in 
are the views ofthe author, md do not neces­
agriculture and is now in charge ofSoviet agriculture as 
sarily reflect the views of the editorial board
the second-ranking member of the Central Committee Secretariat. 
or staff. In a recent trip to Great Britain, Gorbachev demon· strated a shrewdness and understanding of Western 
! S.C>.~.P :

TYPING 
: Students on Alcohol Problems : Resumes 
Term Papers 
! Meeting on Mondays at 4 :oo pm. ! 
Letters · 

: Counseling & Psychological Services : 
Manuscripts 
: Center rm. 316 :
Word Processing 
• Do you have some ideas about alcohol? • : Would you like to share them with other :
Call Chris at: 
: students who may also be like you? 
:•
234-8997 
: Call239-5085 or stop by C.&PSC. (Mon. &. Thurs.) ; 
............................... ··········•····· :**** * * * * * * * * * * * ****!
i DISTINGUISHED STUDENT a i~ AWARD !* 
~ * 
: The Notre Dame Alumni Association will be accepting nominations ~ ~ from February 1 to February 22 for the 4th annual Distinguished Student * : Award. The Distinguished Student Award was created to honor an out-~
i i
standing senior student at the University based on the following criteria: 
~ * 
~ 1) Service to Notre Dame, * : 2) Service to the Community, and, ~ ~ 3) Good Academic Standing. * 
~ Applications can be obtained at the Alumni Association Office on ~ t the second floor of the Administration Building, and at the Center for i ~ Social Concerns. ~ 
~ * 
: Nominations must be submitted to the Association by Feb. 22, 1985. ~ 
~ * 
****************************************************** 

The Observer Monday, February 4, 1985 -page 3 
The 
Black Cultural Arts Festival cordially invites you to meet 





The First Black President of the United States 
TONIGHT /IJ!t at the Library Auditorium 


Zahn withdraws from bid for SBP 
By MIKE Mll.LEN 
SeniorStaffReporter 
Although Ombudsman expected a student body president race with as many as four tickets, as of yester­day only two remain. 
Most recently, Joe Zahn yesterday 

'85 
Student Government Elections 
announced the withdrawal of his candidacy. 
Zahn, a sophomore, explained "I felt it wasn't my year," adding "with the academic schedule I'm going to 

Military and draft counseling available 
have next semester, there is no way I could do the job I would need to. A lot ofpeople don't realize how much it takes to be the Student Body Presi­dent." 
Vice presidential running mate Patrick McCormick, a junior, said "regretfully we had to step down." He "supported Joe 100 percent" in this decision, adding "from the beginning I said we would work as a team." 
Last week, the ticket of Michael O'Keefe and Charles Kromkowski, both juniors, forfeited their can­didacy when they did not attend a mandatory meeting for the candi­dates. 
Neither could be reached for comment. 

And the winner is Executive Vice President Father E. William Beauc­Friday night. Many ofthe acts were rumored to be hamp (left) and Steve Beuerlein, sophomore Notre betterthan those in theKeenan Revue whichplayed Dame quarterback, judge the talent in The Nazz on on both Friday and Saturday night. 
By DAVID BROWN 
News Staff 
Although there has been no con· scription in the United States since the Vietnam conflict, Notre Dame has offered draft and military coun­seling through University Ministry since 1981. 
Margaret Garvey, military and draft counselor for the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community, said the program is designed to help stu­dents understand their position re· garding military service: All counselors are trained professionals who receive input from both mili­tary and church officials she said. 
Garvey said that programs similar to the one at Notre Dame began after The Bishop's Pastoral Letter "The Challenge of Peace" which recognized conscientious objection as a valid moral position. 
Other institutions such as Mar­quette and Western Illinois Univer­sities and Pax Christi USA are 
AMERICAN


Please 
CANCER
support 



SOCIETY® 
involved in draft couseling Garvey said. Notre Dame recognizes and supports the status ofconscientious objector she said. 
Counseling is available to any stu­dent who wishes to discuss their po­sition on military action, including students who may wish to leave school to join the military and ROTC students who are questioning their role in the armed services. 
Garvey said that students did not seem particularly concerned about a possible draft, but that last year during the U.S. invaision of Grenada 45 students expressed concern. 
Several resources were made 
available to those who considered 
themselves conscientious objectors. 
They received the aid of tWo mili­
tary lawyers and the counsel of the 
Office of University Ministry, she 
said. 
Garvey said the program is free and available to any student at either Saint Mary's or Notre Dame. 



Yale protest reminicent of NJ)'s 
By CATIIYANN REYNOLDS according to then Student Body Vice both campuses, the situation of the StaffReporter President Tom Soma. Soma pre­workers was not. The Yale workers sented University President Father "gaining attention through unions" 
Recent student involvement in Theodore Hesburgh with a petition as stated in The Chronicle "have University-employee relations at protesting the University's possible been unionized for about 30 years," Yale as reported in the jan. 23, 1985 decision "to permanently lay off the said Director of Personnel at Notre issue of The Chronicle of Higher groundskeepers." Dame, G. Thomas Bull. Education resembled action taken "Approximately 550 members of The groundskeepers and other by students at Notre Dame in the fall Notre Dame community gathered to workers here that "sought to be uni­of 1977. attend a Mass for Social Justice at the onized were slilbject to the Taft­
The Chronicle of Higher Educa­Grotto," The Observer reported in Hartley act," said Bull. tion reported that Yale University 1977. Soma said the mass was to be The National Labor Relations students had occupied the presi­"an instrument of demonstration Board is responsible for making cer­dent's office to protest the lack of a against the University." tain that the union "cover all the 
settlement in a contract between Thomas Mason, cited in a Nov. bluecollar workers ... not just with Local34 ofthe Federation ofUniver­1977 issue of The Observer as "a multiple units," said Bull. sity Employees and Yale University. member of the (Notre Dame) ad· The proposal "never got a vote" 
Yale students presented Univer­ministration," stated his views on added Bull because "for there to be sity President A. Bartlett Gamatti "the effects ofa pro-union decision" an election at least 30 percent of with a 1 ,500-signature petition and said the worker decision was "a them must want to vote." signed by graduate and undergradu­matter which bears heavily on the At present, the groundskeepers ate students demanding a contract welfare of the University of Notre and laundry workers are not mem­settlement between Yale and the Dame." bers ofa union. worker's union. Mason said in a letter to The Concerned with the NLRB in the 
In the fall of 1977, Notre Dame Observer dated Nov. 11, 1977 that fall of 1977, Mason concluded "that students protested when 21 the National Labor Relations Board all of these emiPloyees -not just the groundskeepers were Iayed off. The was "seeking a representaion elec­groundskeepers and selected workers had attempted to unionize tion for a selected group of laundry worke1rs, should be allowed in order to protest working condi­employees in the Notre Dame to decide whether they wished to be tions. laundry in addition to the represented by a union and ifin fact, 
The 1977 decision by the Univer­groundskeepers." the Teamsters 1is their choice." sity met with student opposition, TheJan. 1985 Chronicle ofHigher Education said "the 2,600 Yale According to Bull, there has not 
workers represented by the Local 34 of the Federation of University Employees, returned to work during the holiday season after ten weeks of picketing." 
Although student support of Uni­versity employees was similar on been any recent indication by any of the groundskeepers or laundry workers of a desire to re-negotiate their individual contracts. 
As of last Wednesday, Local 34 and Yale University were seeking an agreement on their contract. 



7:30p.m. 
--------~--------------­
The Observer Monday, February 4, 1985-page 4 


State legislators to visit capital, ask for federal bailout of farmers 
Associated Press "The resolutions by them:.~ President Reagan has announced won't mean much unless the federal a S650 million loan guarantee pro­
CHICAGO Midwestern government really understands the gr:tm, but the legislators said that legislative leaders say they plan to seriousness that comes with them," should be boosted to S3 billion. descend on Washington later this said Iowa Senate Majority Leader Much of the debate centered on 
month, armed with resolutions car­LowellJunkins. "Frankly, I think you whether the lawmakers should call rying a "clear message" that federal have to start talking about such for a moratorium on foreclosures. officials should ball out financially things as meeting with the presi­
strapped farmers. dent, specifically." "You can always fish for the small 
"We need to gooutbecause we've More than 50 lawmakers attended ones. I like to go after the ones with got a catastrophe about to happen, the meeting, representing states teeth," Minnesota Sen. Charles Berg and they don't understand that," Ne­from Ohio to Kansas and Minnesota said. braska Sen. Tom Vickers said. "The to Missouri. first thing you've got to do is make it "Iowa's worst fears have turned Berg conceded a moratorium very clear that there is a huge prob­into an ever-increasing nightmare," wouldn't solve the problem but said lem out here," Junkins said. it would send a message that might 
The lobbying effort was stirred at Debating federal action needed, force federal officials to change a meeting Saturday, when law­the lawmakers centered their call on policies. "If this administration makers from a dozen Farm Belt proposals to institute a 90 percent doesn't change its policies, we're states asked for $3 billion in immedi­federal-loan guarantee on troubled dead," he said. ate federal help to bail out a farm loans, combined with interest-rate credit "nightmare." reductions on a case-by-case basis. The issue never came to a vote. 
They also agreed to ask Congress Economists said the Midwest is in to seriously consider a four-year, Lawmakers from I0 states said the grip ofa credit crisis, and Iowa's S10 billion program to lower farm they would consider sending problem is by far the worst. interest rates and asked for faster delegations to Washington Feb. 24-Neil Harl, an Iowa State University processing offederalloans. 26 to lobby for more farm aid. One farm economist, told the group that 
They dodged the issue ofwhether state, South Dakota, said it was con­42 percent of Midwest farmers are there should be a ban on forced farm sidering sending its entire "sliding toward insolvency. We're sales. Legislature. losing some ofour better managers." 
Liberty nurse says she is 'part of history' 
Associated Press that back in the 1980s, I was part of one patient a day, she said, she typi­the statue's restoration." cally finishes four newspapers and a 
UBERTY ISLAND, N.Y. -The sign To work for the 5230 million book. on the trailer reads "Palisades Gen­Statue of Uberty-Ellis Island Founda­During her first three 'months at eral Hospital," but the nurse who tion project, Rogers said, a nurse the medical trailer, which was tends to workers renovating the must have the physical agility to supplied by the North Bergen, N.J., 
Statue of Ubt:rty laughs at the over­scale the scaffolding up the 305-foot hospital whose sign it bears, most of statement. monument in case ofan emergency; Rogers' cases have involved minor 
lbe 8-by-l 5-foot trailer in the the creativity to fill the long hours cuts and illnesses. She says her shadow of the famed beacon of New between patients; and the ingenuity motto is, "When in doubt, ship 'em York Harbor contains little more to treat workers who speak little En­out." medical equipment than the average glish. The victim of a major injury ambulance, no emergency room and And the fortitude to endure a would be taken by helicopter to "just one nurse," says Lisa Rogers. h:1rsh winter. When the wind cuts Palisades General. "We can get 
''I'm part of history," the 25-year­through her thinly insulated trailer someone here from Uberty Island in old said during an interview inside and blows papers on her bulletin exactly five minutes," says hospital the base of the monument, which is board, Rogers seeks refuge inside Vice President Bob Routh. covered in scaffolding for a facelift Lady Uberty. But the injuries Rogers does han­before its 1986 centennial celebra­She brings along plenty of reading dle may require expertise beyond tion. "I can tell my wandchildren material. With an average of only the medical texts. 
NOTRE DAME AVE. APTS. ROOMMATES NEEDED! 
Boys and Girls
• 
Call office 3-6 DAILY 234-6647 



SMC FILM FESTIVAL 
"Oldies Week" 
MON, Feb4­ Woman ofthe Year  
Katherine Hepburn, Spencer Tracy  
TUE, Feb 5­ National Velvet  
Elizabeth Taylor, Mickey Rooney  
WED, Feb 6­ The Philadelphia Story  
Cary Grant, Katherine Hepburn  
THUR, Feb 7­ A Streetcar Named Desire  
Marlon Brando, Vivien Leigh  
FRI, Feb 8­ Mildred Pierce  
Joan Crawford  

SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE CARROLL HALL 
7 &9:30p.m. $1.00 
Oscar Award Winners! 

FOR




AI.IMf.._._.fED 

AllYou CanEat St!_~.S6.95. Sunday throughThursday. Hurry in to Red Lobster®now and you won't want to hurry out. Because every Sunday through Thursday, you can feast on as much seafood as you want. Choose from five delicious Red Lobster favorites: Popcorn® Shrimp, Clam Strips, Broiled and Fried fish, or our scrumptious new favorite, Golden Scallops. But you're not limited to one choice. After you finish one kind of seafood, you can switch to another. Then another. But come in soon. Our seafood is endless. ned L b 
But our offer isn't. ft! 0 Ster® 
ttJ 19H5 Red LohHtcr Inns of Amenca. 
Please consult telephone directory for the Red Lobster restaurant nearest you. 
Budget 
continued/rom page I 

in the Congress have to maybe look beyond some of the president's promises oftht-campaign." 
However, Dole also said that many domestic reductions advoca­ted by the president -including cuts in farm subsidies, student aid, and housing programs -would have to be made if government spending was to be gotten under control. 
The budget recommends domes­tic spending cuts of around S39 bil­lion including cutbacks in Medicare, farm price supports, stu­dent loans, housing aid and mass transit. It also calls for a termination of general revenue sharing and for an end to the federal subsidy of the Amtrak rail passenger system, a cut Amtrak officials say could be a death blow. 


Welcome 
continuedfrom page 1 
the team yesterday, "You haven't Jived until you've beaten UCLA at Pauly Pavilion and come back to Notre Dame." 
"We'll beat Syracuse" he said, re­ferring to next Saturday's contest. The crowd then chanted, "We want Syracuse, we want Syracuse...." 
Point guard David Rivers com­mented on the cold and said, "With people like this to come back to, it doesn't matter." 
Assistant coach Pete Gillen said that he did not expect such a tur­nout in his wildest dreams. "It's phenomenal," he said, "It makes the coaches and players feel great." 
By 3: l '5 most of the team had spoken and the crowd retreated to warmer quarters. 

THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
THE LEADER IN ENTERTAINMENT 
Presents... 
MARDI GRAS 
FRIDAY: DANCE-A-THON Stepan Center· 6 p.m.· 6 a.m. $2 ticket admission is raffle chance on 
Free Trip to New Orleans 
for the real Mardi Gras! 6 • 8: Big Twist & Mellow Fellows 
Jazz Bandfrom Chi-Town 
9-1: Rock with the Danger Bros. 1-6: D.J. SATURDAY: Airband & Talent Contest 
8:00 -South Dining Hall $1.50 Admission, judged by audience appreciation 
$100°° First Prize in each Contest 
*********************************** 
STUDENT AID. 
It takes more than brains to go to college. It takes money. For tuition, room and board, and books. 
The Army College Fund is designed to help you get that money for college while serving your country. 
If you qualify, you can join the Army Col­lege Fund when you join the Army. For every dollar you put in, Uncle Sam puts in five. Or more. 
So, after just two years in the Army, you can have up to $.15,200 for college. Afte1 1.nree years, up to $20,100. 
To get your free copy of the Army College Fund booklet, call or visit your local Recruiter. It could be the most important book you've ever read. 
ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 
**********1rli2~I~.~:l~*********** 

-----~ ----~---------------~~--~ ~-----------~----­
The Observer Monday, February 4, 1985 ~ page 5 


Thirteen U.S. servicemen injured in bomb blast in Atlh.ens 
Associated Press der one ofthe tables at Bobby's, a bar The caller told Eleftherotipa the tal, where U.S. personnel were taken A spokesman at Hygeia Hospital in the seaside Athens suburb of group would "strike again where for surgery, spoke of deep cuts from identified four of the injured ATHENS, Greece -Thirteen Glyfada. Greeks and Americans frequent." flying debris, and bad burns. Americans as Charles Curmutt, 23, 
injured U.S. servicemen and depen­The bar is popular with many of The bomb went off at II:36 p.m. who he said was badly burned; his dents, among the 69 Americans the I ,500 U.S air Force personnel when about 200 people were Aspokeswoman at the Hellenikon wife Carla, 20, also burned; Mark wounded when a bomb exploded in stationed at Hellenikon Air Base packed into the bar near Glyfada's base said 32 Americans, the Et­a crowded bar, were airlifted to a next to Athens airport. central square. hiopian and a Greek were released Kromer, and Attile Downing, 21, of 
U.S. base in West Germany yesterday "There was an ear-splitting blast, a after receiving first aid at the base Fayetteville, N.C. for treatment, U.S. and Greek offi­A caller claiming to represent the cloud of smoke and the lights went hospital. cials said. "National Front" asserted responsi­out," bartender Yannis Kaptanis, 24, Two American:; treated for burns 
The explosion Saturday night bility for the blast in a call last night told The Associated Press. Thirteen servicemen and depen­at Athens General Clinic were iden­injured 78 people and was the first to the Athens daily Eleftherotipa. He dents were airlifted to Ramstein Air tified as Mark Gordon, 35; and Ervin reported terrorist attack on a facility criticized the United States for the The concussion collapsed part of Base in West Germany and taken to Stewart, 30. frequented by U.S. military person­"continuing situation" on Cyprus, the ceiling, smashed chairs and the nearby U.S. Army hospital in nel in Greece. A caller to an Athens where Turkish troops occupy 33 barstools, blew the bar's doors off Landstuhl, a hospital spokesman Two women, Celeste Smith, a newspaper claimed responsibility percent of the island. their hinges and showered the street said. policewoman assigned to the Air for the blast, criticized U.S. policy with glass. Some patrons, their One victim was in "very serious" Force's 7206th Support Group sta­and said attacks on Americans would Some Greeks feel Washington has clothes scorched, were trampled in condition, seven were in tioned at the bast:, and Brenda Burg, continue. not done enough to pressure NATO the rush to get out. Dazed customers "satisfactory" condition and five 
Seven Greeks, a West German and ally Turkey into removing its troops were staggering through the streets were undergoing evaluation late 30, wife of a U.S. :;erviceman, under­an Ethiopian also were reported from Cyprus, which Turkey invaded when Greek and U.S. Air Force yesterday but appeared to out of went surgery to remove fragments injured when, Greek police said, a in I974 following a coup led by police arrived. danger, a spokesman for the Army's from their legs, officials at the clinic "powerful time-bomb" went off un-Greek army officers. A doctor at Athens Hygeia Hospi-7th Medical Command said. said. 
l , 
The Finance Club Proudly Presents: The 27th Annual Finance Forum 
Monday. feb .f. 198.5 4:00PM: Mr. Steven G. Rothmeier, Pres. & CEO, Northwest Airlines Inc. 
"Airline Financial Strategies in a Deregulated Environment" Tuesday. Peb . .5. 198.5 4:00PM 
Mr. john K. Moore, Chairman & CEO, The Beach Bank "A Changing Industry: The Community Banker's Perspective" Tuesday Peb . .5, 198.5 7:30PM 
Mr. john S. Poelker, Pres. & CFO, Citizens & Southern Georgia Corp. "A Changing Industry: The Regional Banks' Perspective" 
AU presentations are in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium. Public Invited. 

CONFUSED?? 

An ancientgoldseal, dating back to the Eastern Tsin period(A.D. 317-420) was recently found near Nanking, Cbint~:. The seal is 2.4 centimeters square. 
Are you bewildered by the Spring Break trips offered?? 

The Student Activities Board 
THE LEADER IN ENTERTAINMENT 
IS YOUR ANSWER!! RELAX ••• we've done this before: 
Ft. Lauderdale * * Daytona Beach 

$299 $199 
• 
Free refreshments on bus • Free Refreshments on Bus 

• 
Free Parties • Sf. Patrick's Day Celebration 

• 
St. Patrick's Celebration • Optional trips to Walt Disney World, 

• 
White Sox Baseball Epcot Center 

• 
Afternoon Boat Excursion • Sun and Fun 

• 
DePaui-Northwestern Parties • Free Parties 

• 
At the Sheraton Yankee Trader • At the Plaza Hotel 


INFORMATIONAL MEETING: 7:00p.m.· THURSDAY, FEB. 7th LaFortune Little Theater OR CALL: 239-7757 (the S.A.B.) Sign Ups at Record Store-$75 deposit 
-------------~­
The Observer 


Richard jennings suroeys damage to a storage trailer and its contents. One life and 2,500 acres of trailer behind bis bouse in Naples, Florida after a landhave been claimedby tbefire. raging, out-of-control brush fire destroyed tbe 
Transplant's costs are prohibitive 
A.'iSOC!ated Press 
WASHINGTON Raymond 
Krueger ofAuhurn, Mich., who had a 
heart transplant in 1983, said a pa­
tient's recovery can be hindered by 
stress caused by anxiety about how 
to pay huge medical bills. 
Bradford Bennett of Denver, who said he'd lost a daughter waiting for a liver transplant, said insurers were "denying lives to people who have a right to live." 
''I'm not your adversary," replied Dr. lbomas Culley, medical director of Aetna Life and Casualty Insurance Co.'s employee benefits division. 
In fact, Culley said, he has argued for insurance coverage of more transplants. 
Culley was one of several health insurance representatives who on Friday met with a group of people whose lives had been deeply af­fected by organ transplants. 
Besides adult recipients, the room was filled with the parents of children who had received or were in desperate need of organs, as well as parents mourning children who died waiting. 
Except for Bennett's statement, the speakers did not talk directly of 

I 
lives lost because of lack of insur­
ance money. But there was the clear 
suggestion, during the meeting 
sponsored by the American Council 
on Transplantation, that greater 
backing of new transplant 
procedures by federal and private 
insurers would mean expanded ef­
forts and lives saved in the future. 
Adecade ago, said Dr. Ronald Fer­guson of Ohio State University Hospital, people talked of transplant specialists "playing God." 
Now, he saHl, the people taking 
the role of a deity -deciding who 
will live or die -are those respon­
sible for distributing relatively 
scarce organs and making decisions 
whether or not to reimburse 
patients for operations that can cost 
SI00,000 or more. 
Availabiliry of suitable organs is still the biggest problem, according to those at the workshop on "third­party payment for transplant procedures." 
For example, the private council said at Thursday's session, only 163 liver transplants were performed in 1983, although about 8,000 people would have benefited from such operations. 
And, although 20.000 cornea transplants were performed, the same number of people were left waiting. 
William Berry, director ofthe gov­
ernment's new Office of Organ 
Transplantation, gave no guidelines 
on how the government will make 
S25 million in grants to aid the na­
tional organ-procurement effort. 
Ferguson said some insurance companies seemed to be "hiding be­hind a smoke screen," in rejecting payment for most heart, lung and liver transplants on grounds that such operations are experimental in nature rather than accepted medical practice. 
Federal programs also reimburse patients for few transplants -other than kidneys, which are part ofa pro­gram specifically mandated by Congress. 
Culley said the answer lay in de­veloping accepted standards for in­stitutions performing the newest kinds oftransplants-so employers, who pay the bills for insurance, could be assured qualiry control in little-charted areas. 
"We have to sell the concept of paying for that to large businesses," he said. "The way we can do that is to make sure it's cost-effective." 

Tellabs, Inc., one of the most innovative and technically advanced companies among manufacturers of analog and digital voice and data communications equipment, will be on campus on: 
f 
February 19, 1985 
r 
We are seeking Engineers in the following disciplines: 
ANALOG CIRCUIT DESIGN (BSIMS EE) 
DIGITAL LOGIC 
DESIGN (BS/MS EE) 
INTEGRATED CIRCUIT DESIGN (BSIMS EE) 
SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT (BS/MS EE & CS) 
Voice frequency circuit development Active filters • Hybrids Switch capacitor filters 
DSP integrated circuits High speed digital logic Microprocessor logic • Logic simulation 
Custom devices Semi-custom devices Analog & digital devices 
Real time software • CIUNIX Assembly language programming Data communication protocol 
We've asked our recently hired graduates why they decided on Teliabs. Some of their reasons were: 
Friendly company atmosphere . . . conception-to-completion project responsibilities . . . state-of-the-art technology . . .team spirit . . . excellent salaries and benefits. 
There's a lot to talk about. If you're an above average achiever seeking challenge and opportunity for your future, contact us. Sign up to talk with Steve Calllsher on campus February 19, 1985 or send your resume/letter to: Steve Calllsher, Tellabs, Inc., 4951 Indiana Avenue, Lisle, IL 60532. An Equal Oppor­tunity Employer M/F. 
r 
r 
Monday, February 4, 1985 -page 6 

Peace being restored after violent uprisings 
Associated Press 
PENDLETON, Ind.-State Correc­
tion Commissioner Gordon 
Faulkner said yesterday that his staff 
is concentrating on returning the 
Indiana Reformatory to normal as 
soon as possible and reviewing the 
procedures used to defuse last 
week's violent uprising there. 
Nine inmates involved in the Friday disturbance have have been segregated from the rest of the prison population, Faulkner said. 
Correction officials conducted a weapons shakedown at the maximum-security facility Saturday, Faulkner said, and were proceeding with a review of Friday's events and with meeting the conditions of a settlement agreed upon by his staff and negotiators for the hostages. 
"We're primarily concerned with cleaning up the institution and get­ting the institution back to an or­derly operating procedure," Faulkner said in a telephone inter­view with the Associated Press from his home in Indianapolis. 
Faulkner said there was "no major damage" to the reformatory, which was littered with debris from the dis­turbance in which seven guards were stabbed with homemade knives and two staff members were held hostage for more than 1 5 hours. Another hostage, a guard, had been released after five hours. 
Asked how he thought prison guards might react now to prisoners with whom they had a violent con· frontation, Faulkner said, "Our guards are highly trained. 'lbere will not be reprisals. lbere will be an or­derly investigation." 
As part of the agreement with the inmates, state police will investigate alleged mistreatment of the inmates by guards, and FBI agents will be asked to look into possible viola­tions of the inmates' civil rights. 
Faulkner said State Police Superin· tendent John Shettle had assured him that the state police investiga­tion would begin as soon as possible. 
"We (correction officials) will do the internal investigation whether there was a better way to react to the situation," Faulkner said. 

FOR RENT 
furnished, 3 bedroom home washer & dryer close to campus 
4 Roommates Needed 
Only $125.00 each 
call287-0148forapt. 
"Everything comes to me in one hideous moment." 
-Gary Larson 
The man who shows us life on The Far Side. 
The Far Side GALLERY 
At last. The Far Side Goll&rr is here. All the material from Gary Larson's previous three 
books. The Far Side. Beyond The Far Side, and his newes' bestselling collection. In Search of The Far 
Side -now together in one omnibus collection. 
Containing over 600 

comic panels plus 8 full-color mini-posters. The Far Side Gallery brings us the beastly world where ani­
mals often make monkeys out of people. 
Order a copy lor your favorite Far Side !ani 
Please send me: ___ copies of The Far Side Gallery at $8.95 per copy plus $1 postage and handling. Total amount ·---­(If check. make payable to Andrews. McMeel & Parker.) 
Please allow 4-6 weeks for delivery 
0 Check 0 Money Order 0 VISA 
0 MasterCard 

I Name Only $8.95 I 
Address __________________ _
I
208 pages 
I City State_______ Zip____ MasterCard
81f2x11 I Credit cord#_______ Interbank# ____ _ I I 
-::----:------::-:-----c:-------­
Signature as on credit card Expir Date 
I Send to: The Far Side Gallery c/o Notre Dame Observer 1
............_____.I _____________________~ 
I 4400 Johnson Drrve Fairway. Kansas 66205 1 
c ~~~ unoverul P1en Svndo,alt> 
t 
t 






View~_o_i_n_t_________
M_on-da._y,F-eb_ru_ary._4_,I.9_s_s-:..p.....ag--e7 

The trauma of losing one's resident assistant 
The other day I lost a resident assistant. Do not laugh, this is serious business. The inci­dent was not unlike something from a Sher­lock Holmes mystery. He was there one moment and while I was apparently not paying attention, something changed. The person I saw was obviously not the one who 
greeted me at the beginning of the school year. To me, this was rather disconcerting. Cer­tainly, I expected the guy to change a little, 
Dave Kroeger 

Wednesday's child 
but this was ridiculous. It was obviously a joke. I wondered if, at the end of the day, someone would come and ask me to play "To Tell The Truth." You know, will the real R.A. please stand up? Again, though, I was disap­pointed. 
I have twenty-twenty vision. I canhear well. At times, some might admit that I have half a brain. Yet, something seemed wrong. You do not simply lose an R.A. 
After a number ofinquiries into the matter, l finally came up with a conclusion. Remem­ber that little piece ofpaper called the alcohol policy? Well, while I hate to harp about it, there are a few things that need clearing up. 
Remember when an R.A. was an R.A.? They would roam as usual, but there was con­siderably less to do, on the whole. Today's R.A. is an exceptional breed, required not only to roam, but to carry special spy equipment as well so that he or she can find out just how social your social gathering is. This, ofcourse, assumes that you can have social gatherings. 
Treading the thin line between the respect ofthe students and the respect ofthe adminis­tration has become ludicrous. Itcan no longer be done. Those who try, fail miserably and of­ten come out of the situation with a Dr.Jeckle -Mr. Hyde complex. Do you remember "The Exorcist?" I would be willing to bet that poor girl tried to be an R.A. 
Given the choice between appearing as stu­
dents or authority figures, which do you 
"-· 
choose? The problem, though, is that the aut­horities themselves cannot agree. What con­stitutes a party in Dillon is something very different from what constitutes a party in Lyons. This is stupid, and should not happen, and to be aware of such a contradiction with­out acting upon it should not exactly help one sleep at night. 
Fully knowing that we are, ofcourse, in the best-of-all-possible universities in this best-of­all-possible worlds (I read the course descrip­tion catalog.). I proceeded to take my case to an administrator. After all, one would assume that in this best-of-all-possible universities one could find the best-of-all-possible ad­ministrations. To be quite honest, my action did not help. Although I received a more ra­tional answer than my rector gave, whom I fear was looking for hidden cameras lest Allen Funt be in the neighborhood, I far from solved the difficulty ofmy missing R.A. 
Quite simply, I was told that the alcohol policy guidelines were already uniform. Imag­ine my surprise. Someone obviously ne­glected to tell the individual halls this bit of information. Campus mail is not that slow. What is more, this administrator dismissed my problem by saying that new policies will have problems in their implementation. 
I am firm in my belief that if President Carter had used this reasoning for the failure of his foreign policy, he would still be with us today as president. If Jimmy had gone before the public and said that Afghanistans and hostage crises will happen, he would be sit­ting in the Oval Office right now. Forget that foreign policy, as well as the alcohol policy, deals with humans. 
Believe it or not, I am still searching for my 
R.A. He is somewhere out there. Despite as­surances from the best people of this Univer­sity, I know that I am not imagining things. Perhaps a "Save the R.A." campaign might be in order. Or, maybe "To Tell The Truth" would be useful in assisting them. At the end of the show we could ask, "Who is really drunk and abusive?" Keep in mind, of course, that one can just as easily get drunk on power. Perhaps we should have a policy for that too. 
David Kroeger is a sophomore in tbe Col­lege ofArts and Letters Honors Program at Notre Dame and is a regular Viewpoint col­umnist. 



In the beginning, God created Ronald Reagan 
In the beginning, God created the Heavens, the Americas, and Ronald Reagan. And He created His short-sighted-but-experienced vigorous youth. And God said, "Hmm, let us see what happens." 
America was without borders and the land was vast and largely uninhabited · except for those Indians. America's natural resources were abundant, its forests dense, its air and waters clean, and its people just. And the Spirit of Ronald was moving over the face of the na­tion. 
And the Spirit said, "Let us split the Atom," and there was light. And the Spirit saw that the light produced energyfor America's cities and 
Jurgen Brauer 
Sunday school 

deterred the Evil Empire's aggression. But the Spirit could not separate the light from others who wanted it too, so the light proliferated into darkness. The Spirit called the light Day, and the darkness the Day After. This was the first day. And it was bad. 
And the Spirit said, "Let there be borders, regional sections, the inner-city, economic and racial distinctions, and every other im­aginable boundary that separates American from American, person from person, and us from them." And the Spirit made a border which separated the Latin Americans, who were below the border, from the Americans, who were above the border. And the Spirit said to the Americans, "There are no hungry ones among us." But it was not so. And the Spirit said to the Latin Americans, "Woe to those who attempt to work among lis without proper papers and expect equal wages." And it was . This was the second day. And it was bad. 
And the Spirit said, "Let the states witin America be united behind a single cause; and let the national ethos appear." And it was so. And the Spirit called the national ethos the Free Enterprise System. And the states that were not united were called competitors or adversaries. And the Spirit saw that it was good. And It said, "Let America put forth tax cuts for the wealthy, technology, and weapon systems, sowing seeds of peace, and the virtues of Free Enterprise, each according to its kind." And it was so. Technology makes life easier and it makes it easier to control the masses through its wealth, after its kind. Weapon systems yield small manageable wars far away from above the border, after their kind. Free Enterprise diclocates historical societies with stable economies, after its kind. And the Spirit was good for the cancerous 

QWants to ;Hear FromYou 
The Observer would like to introduce our readers to our post office box -Q. Q is a friendly little guy and likes nothing more than to hear others'opinions. 
If you would like to comment on something in The Observer,write a letter to the editor. Letters to the editor must be well-written and typed. They must also bear the signature and telephone number ofthe author. Letters should also be no more than 250 words in length. 
The Viewpoint department reserves the right to edit all let­ters and guest columns. 
growth of the economy. This was the third 
day. And it was bad. 
And the Spirit said, "Lt:t there be a new light 
in the firmament of the Heavens to separate 
the Day from the Day .After, and let the new 
light make the old light obsolete and let the 
new light be a sign ofpeace for seasons and for 
Days and for years; and let the light in the 
firmaments of the Heavens disarm the light 
upon the Earth." And the Spirit refused to 
negotiate the new light away and so the Evil 
Empire made a second great light. Now there 
were two new lights and two old lights: the 
greater lights ruled the Day and the lesser 
lights ruled the Day After. And the Spirit called 
this deterrence. This was the fourth day. And 
it was bad. 
And the Spirit said, "Let there be no deficits" (but they were legion).."Let us (not?) cut social welfare and fund swarms of space and war technology that flies above the ~
,
earth across the firmamemt of the Heavens. 
,
Let the technology race· bury the Evil Empire's ,economy." And it was so; but the American ,economy was buried also because of the 
,deficits ofthe deep. And the Spirit created star , wars, and every living weapons system that , moved through the sky, residing in silos and ,
,
swimming through th.e waters of the deep, 
each according to its kind. And the Spirit 'I 
called this Security. And it blessed them, 1 
1
saying, "Be fruitful and multiply and fill the sky 
and the seas, as the birds and fish multiply." 1 
And it was so. This was. the fifth day. And it was .,'1 
bad. , 
Now there was a day when the devil came to present himself before God and God said, "Whence have you come?'' The devil an­swered God, "From going to-and-fro on the face of the Earth, and from walking up and down upon it." And the devil said to God, "Have you considered my servant, the Spirit of Ronald? There is none like him in America. He is blameless before 1he public and nothing sticks to him." And God looked down upon America. And God said, "Each seed sown must reap after its kind." And God saw that the har­vest reaped from the polluted waters and skies was pestilence and Bhopal death; the harvests reaped from hatred and the creation ofweap­ons was war upon war and preparation for still more war; the harvest reaped from injustice and the lust ofgreed was genocidal famine and the loss ofhuman dignity; the harvest reaped from sin was death. And God wept for humanity for it was not good. This was the sixth day -or almost. 
On the seventh d:ay, the Spirit will have to rest, for there will be: nothing left to destruct. 
jurgen Brauer is an economics graduate studentatNotre Dm:ne and is a regular View­pointColumnist. 



Editorial Board  Department Managers  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  (219) 239-5303  Editor·in·Chief.  . ... Bob Vonderhetde  Business Manager........... Dave Taiclet  
Managing Editor . . . .  . . Mark Worscheh  Controller . . . . . .  . .. Dave Stephen itch  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the  News Editor . . . . . . . . .  . . Sarah Hamilton  Advertising Mana11er ....... Anne Culligan  
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily  News Editor . . .  . Dan McCullough  Circulation Mana~1er. . .  . ... Jell O'Neill  
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as  Saint Mary's Editor . . . .  Anne Monastyrski  Systems Managet ........ Mark B. Johnson  
accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion  Sports Ed1tor........  . Michael Sullivan  Production Mana~1er. .  . ... Chris Bowler  
of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column  Viewpoint Editor . . . . .  . . Dave Grote  Project Manager  . . . . . .  . Amy Stephan  
present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters.  Features Editor .............. Mary Healy Photo Ed1tor. . . . . . . . . Pete Laches  Founded 'lovember 3, 1966  
is encouraged.  



Accent BCAF celebrates black journey 

Sam Moore 
features staff writer 
T
he black experience has been an unique journey in the histo£) of the United States. This February, an extraordinary assemblage of leaders, thinkers and artists who have contributed to this journey will be present on campus in a series ofplays, speakers, dances, and concerts. This series ofevents make up the 198S Black Cultural Arts Festival. The theme for this year's festival is "Pioneers-Looking Toward New Horizons." Leading off the series ofevents was a concert by the Notre Dame Gospel Choir, which took place last night. Other highlights include the acclaimed Broadway play, "Ain't Misbehavin'," and the 198S BCAF Fashion Show. 
Greg Martin, tht' chairman of the BCAF, says that the BCAF offers an excellent opportunity for the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community, and, indeed the entire region, to 

~ 
enjoy and learn about the abun­
r dance ofAfro-American history and 
r 
culture. 
The BCAF was started 9 or 1 0 years ago as a way for the black students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's to celebratt· Black History Month. The purpose of the BCAF is to expose and educate the commu­nity in black culture. When Martin took over as BCAF chairman, his first task was to choose a theme for this year's festival. 'Ibinking of the areas where blacks have made firsts, such as a viable presidential can­didacy and an astronaut, and the increase of blacks in leadership roles in business, industry, and the military, Martin decided on "pioneers" as a fitting concept. Martin wanted to diversify the 
festival's focus by showca~ing suc­
cessful blacks from a multitude of 
fields. lbis goal wa~ helped by an 
increase in the money the BCAF 
raised. and plans were acccordingly 
more elaborate. 
Expand they did. The BCAF was able to get a professional actor, Dennis Raheim Wat-;on, to appear in the one-man play "lbe First Black President ofAmerica." The BCAF, responding to the wishes of Saint Mary's black students, decided to hold a semi-formal dance, the "Saint Mary's Festival Party." 

r Randall Robinson. president of 
r 
TransAfrica, the black Americanr foreign lobby, will speak on South Mrica. Robinson and TransMrica
~ 
have been important critics and 
consultant~ on foreign policy in 
Africa and the Carribean. 

Black artistry will be represented 
by Terri Lyne Carrington, who will 
give workshops and a performance. 
Carrington, a 19-year-old jazz per­
cussionist and a student at Michigan 
State llniversity, has performed 
with such jazz greats as Lionel 
Hampton, Buddy Rich, Dizzy Gil­
lespie, and Wynton Marsalis. 
The Talent Show will feature the 
varied talents ofblack students. 
And, to finish the festival, the Fas­
hion Show will show off the finest 
in clothing styles. 
Tony Brown, the syndicated columnist whose "Xony Brown's Journal" has enjoyed success as a radio and TV show and a magazine, will also be speaking at the festival. 
The BCAF is hoping to generate an energetic response from the University community. There has already been a lot ofstudent cooperation and support, according to BCAF officers, who are quick to emphasize that the BCAF is not solely for black students. It is meant for the whole community to gain interest and knowledge in black history, a history that has not been traditionally represented in its full 
importance, but that is integral to our American heritage. 
As these speakers have managed to open doors ofopportunities, and serve as role models for a younger generation, Martin summarizes the BCAF's attitude as, "looking at a brighter tomorrow, and finding that it's not as bad a-; it seems." 


Library Auditorium 
9p.m. Haggar Center 
7p.m. Library Auditorium 
8p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium 
7p.m. Library Auditorium 
7p.m. Library Auditorium 
7p.m. Library Auditorium 
8p.m. ACC Monogram Room 
Officers ofthe Black Cultural Arts Festival plan upcoming festival events. 

Black Cultural Arts Festival Schedule of events 
7:30p.m. 
Feb.9 Feb.ll Feb.l7 Feb.19 Feb.20 Feb.23 
March2 

One-man play 
"First Black President of the United States" by Dennis Rahim-Watson 
Festival Party 
Semi-formal dance 
Lecture 
"Politics and South Africa" by Randall Robinson, Executive Director, TransAfrica 
"Ain't Misbehavin" 
The Broadway Road Company 
Lecture 
Tony Brown, Editor Tony Brown's Journal 
Jazz percussionist 
Terri Lyne Carrington 
BCAF Talent Show 
BCAF Fashion Show 

O
f all the months of the year, it is usually February -Black History Month -that causes me to deeply re-examine what it means to be both black and Catholic in America. To many people, being black and Catholic is an incompatible concept in modern American society. I have always considered myself to be an optimist when it came to this issue. But now, even I am begin­ning to question the future of the black Catholic. 
The Catholic Churchbas 

Being black and Catholic -a student's perspective Lynette Boggs 
features staff writer 



The Notre Dame Gospel Choir ushered in the BCAF last night. 
come a long way over the past SO years. Most Catholic institu­tions ofhigher learning. includ­ing seminaries, used to bar blacks, and Catholic churches were segregated. My grand­mother would tell me how her priest used to wash his hands after serving black parishioners. While much has changed, a lot hasn't. Even today, many white parishes in the South have ob­jected to the assignment ofblack priests. When blacks are in the majority, they are expected to be, as one black Catholic put it, the "silent, smiling recipients of white ideas, directions, and deci­sions." 
Race relations have been, traditionally, a low priority for the Church in the United States. The bishops publish eloquent pastoral letters on racism and social justice, but very few have done anything about it. Alarm­ingly, the National Catholic Con­ference for Interracial Justice has dropped from 100 local chap­


• 
Randall Robinson 

Tony Brown 

Terri Lyne Carrington 
ters to 3S ·in the space ofonly a few years. 
The Catholic Church is be­coming less attractive to black Americans. The changes of Vatican II alienated many older black members, while the growing emphasis on black pride ha~ led many young paris­hioners to all-black Protestant congregations. In just three years, more than II S,OOO of the I million-strong black Catholic population have left the church. The first black priest was or­dained in 18S4, and since then, only 290 additional black men have become priests, an average ofapproximately two to three a year. 
I truly believe that it is possi­
ble to be black and Catholic 
today. But what about tomor­
row? Blacks must be allowed to 
impress their character upon the 
Church; the appointment of 
black bishops has been one posi­
tive step in this direction, but 
more steps need to be taken. 
The Church can truly become the "universal" Church -not only in regards to blacks, but to all races. Ifit doesn't, however, then the Church's glow will be dimmed; these words from a black ex-nun should serve to make all Catholics aware of the forces present: "I would never want to have to choose between a white authority-bound institu­tion into which I had put myself and the black race into which I was born." 


-

Monday, February 4, 1985 -page 8 -9 

Nazz shines once more 


Don Seymour 
features staffwriter 

T
he Keenan Revue may have garnered most of the attention this weekend, but deep in the heart of LaFortune, another ha~tion of student entertainment unfolded to large and enthusiastic audiences. I am talking about the annual Nazz 
· . Music Competition. For the uni­nitiated, the Nazz is a student-run coffeehouse in the basement of LaFortune. Held traditionally in March, the music competition was moved to an earlier date, according to Nazz coordinator Sarah Molinsky, for publicity purposes. It was her hope that a successful event, showcasing the best in campus musical entertainment, might revi­talize the Nazz and reestablish it as a center ofcampus social life. 
Compliments are in order, for the show went extremely well. A daz­zling array oftalent, spread around in 18 acts, thrilled a standing-room­only crowd. From barbershop quar­tets to improvisational jazz to heavy metal mockery, the students dem­onstrated the quality of talent pres­ent in the community. Winning again this year were the Belltones, a female barbershop quartet that 
The Observer/Bob Boucher grew out ofThe Chorale in the late 
70s. The group performed such 
traditional favorites as "Java jive," "Boogie-Woogie Bugle Boy," and 
the humorous "All-American Girl," 
as well as a tremendous version of 
"Boy from New York City," which was made popular by the Manhattan Transfer. The group's members, Donna Gavigan, Debbie Hill, Rachel Nigro, and Mary Nessinger, all pos­sess beautiful voices, and have mastered the art ofsinging in close harmony while entertaining at the same time. 
Second place went to Something Else, a male barbershop quartet consisting of members of the Glee Club. As displayed in songs like "Oedipus Rex" and "Rigeletto", and in the brieftalks between numbers, the guys can sing very well and clown with the best. They also showed a more serious side on "Caroline" and the Gatlin Brothers' "Hallelujah." 
Coming in third was pianist/vocalist Bob Corrigan, a glee club member and extremely talented musician. Corrigan per· formed Randy Newman's humorous "Political Science," Simon and Garfunkel's "The Boxer," Don McLean's ''Vincent," and a striking version of Lennon and McCartney's "Blackbird." Corrigan not only displayed prowess on the keyboard, but an expressive vocal style rarely found in campus musicians. 
Finishing fourth was the jazz quintet, a particularly impressive ensemble ofguitar, horns, bass and drums, fresh from a concert at Washington Hall earlier in the week. Finishing fifth was Cold Drinks, a rock band described by MC Ken Dice as "four guys from Dillon and a girl named Rose," who stunned the crowd with their pro­fessional sound, including a striking rendition of the Talking Heads' "Take Me to the River." 
Other acts included Irish 
songmaster and storyteller, and 
Nazz favorite John Kennedy, the Dry Land Blues Band, "saving our 
souls from the drudgery of rock, the 
chaos of jazz, and the quaintness of 
barbershop quartets," who bar· 
relied through "Gimme Some 
Lovin" and "Soul Man," as well as 
the "Chern 11 5 Blues," Wicked Sh--, 
a raucous heavy metal parody, folk 
singers Bob Maravich and Kurt 
Miller, progressive rock bands the 
DSBs and the Super Band Waste 
Band, four seniors who vowed to 
play the Nazz but lacked a name, 
and guitarist Mike Reinhart, who 
closed the show with a well· 
received tribute to the 60s. 
Each act paid a $5 entry fee and 
was given twenty minutes total to 
-

set up and perform. Acts were 
judged on instrumental ability, 
vocal ability, quality of material, 
presentation. and stage presence on a scale from 0 to 5. A sixth category, audience rapport, was recorded, but only used in the case of a tie. Judges were Steve Beurlein, Fr. William Beauchamp, Carl Starn, director ofthe Glee Club and Chorale, Margaret Linhart, secretary for the Student Activities Board, and Paul Matwiy. assistant director of Student Activities. 
The .;tanding-room-onlv crowd reacteu enthusiao;ticallv to {'Very act and to Master ofCeremonies Ken Dice, who entertained with his nutty sense ofhumor between acts. Besides simply stunning the audi· ence, the quality of talent reaf­firmed the existence ofthe Nazz. During the 70s, according to singer John Kennedy, the Nazz thrived, with a large and faithful audience of its own. In the 80s, however, its popularity dwindled. Performers would attract crowds of their friends and admirers, but activity at the Nazz remained sporadic at best. For the last few years, the music competition had been the only major attraction at the Nazz. The show's excellence, however, en­couraged the coordinators and performers. The coming weeks will 
probably see a number of the acts 
described above performing in the 
basement of LaFortune. Maybe it is 
time for the Nazz to once again 
become a social alternative. 
The Bel/tones sang their way to first placefor the third year in a row. 
"Super Band Waste Band" 
-



Sports Briefs 
The SMC softball teamwm be holding an organiza­tional mt·eting tomorrow at 6:30 p.m. in the lounge of the Angela Athletic l:acility.-The Obseroer 
An interhall wrestling toumament is being sponsored by NVA. For information, contact the NVA office at Z39-6 I00. The deadline for entries is Feb. I 3. -The Obseroer 
An interhall swimming meet is being sponsored by NVAon Feb. 19. Hall representatives must submit a list ofentrie~ and divers provide a list ofdives to Dennis Stark by Feb. 18. For more information, call Coach Stark at 239-6222. -The Obseroer 
NCAA basketball toumamentticketsfor 
the Southeast Regional games to be played at the ACC on March 14 and 16 are now on sale for season-ticket holders. Students may pur­chase tickets with the general public beginning Feb. 11. -The Obseroer 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday 
through "Iltursday until 4 p.m. at The Obseroer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Briefs must be clearly written. -The Observer 
I 

Monday, February 4, 1985-page 10 

Rose readies for pursuit

The SMC trackteamwill be holding an informational meeting today at 4:30 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. Anyone who is interested may attend. -The Obseroer 

of hits record 
Associated Press 

CINCINNATI -With spring train­NVA Wednesday, Feb. 6, from 6:15p.m. to 7:30p.m. at the NVA 
Bodyfat measurementswill be provided free by 
ing three weeks away, Cincinnati office in the ACC. Anyone interested should report to the office 
Reds player-manager Pete Rose wearing shorts and short sleeves. -The Obseroer 
already is working out furiously to prepare for the 1985 season and his pursuit of Ty Cobl)'s all-time career record for hits. 
Rose, 43, is hitting baseballs in a practice today in the ACC as scheduled. For more information call 
The ND / SMC women's golfteamwill hold 
Cincinnati training cage, chasing Jane.-The Obseroer 
tennis balls in partnership with his lawyer, Reuven Katz, and working out in a gymnasium. 
"I'm in shape. I mean, I can't go A bowling league for off-campus students is being 
out here and run two miles, but I can formed. The league will play onTuesday's at 9 p.m. beginning tomor­
run a mile," Rose said. "I'm in shape. row. For more information, call Doug at 289-5379 today. · The 
I've always been in shape for what I 
have to do -play baseball." 

He weighs 209 pounds, but hopes to have trimmed about 1 5 pounds of that from his 5-foot, 10-inch frame by the time spring training starts at the Reds' camp in Tampa, Fla. So, 
Obseroer 

The ND women's trackteamplaced second to 
Rose is on a diet. Invite held Friday night in the ACC. Goshen College, with 40 points, 
St. joseph's of Rensselaer, Ind., I 59-127, at the annual NO Indoor 
He said he hasn't always sub­and Manchester College, with 33 points, finished third and fourth, 
scribed to the idea ofdiets. respectively. Highlights for the Irish included blue ribbons for Julia 
"I always thought a steak a day Merkel (mile run) and Beth Mirko (300-yd. run), and second place 
kept the doctor away," he said. finishes by Cathy Willard (300-yd. run), Susan Wanchow (600-yd. 
Rose has high hopes for improv­run), andJeanne Luther (shot put). -The Obseroer 
ing the Reds in I985 from a team that finished ftfth in the National League West last season and last in the previous two years. 
The Obserr•er Notre Dame ottln:. locatn.l on tht· third floor of l.al'ortune Student Center. accepts dassifk<l advertising from l) a.m. until -1 p.m.. Monday through Friday. The Obsen,er Saint Mary's ottlce. ltK"ate<l on the third floor of Haggar College Center. accepts dassifk<ls from 11:~0 p.m. until .~ p.m.. Mon· day though friday. Deadline li>r next-day das~ifieds is ~ p.m. All dassifit·ds must be prepaid. either in person or hy mail. Chargt· is 10 cents pn five charac·



Classifieds 
ters er <Ia ·. 
NOTICES 
TYPING CAU CHRIS 234-a017 
TYPING AVAILABLE 
217~082 
TYPING JACKIE IIOQGS 
11114-8713 
ECOECOECO Meeting of the ENVIRONMENTAL CON­CERNS ORGANIZATION Today at 4:30 inlheCSC 
LOST/FOUND I 
LOST Ahinet~tone necklace on Set. night, the 19. PLEASE HELP !Iff $$$$REWARDS$$$ Call Cindy at 272­
6084 
Lost: A pair of NIKES (Mid-lops) Basket­bell lhoea. White with blue and red atripea. Lut aeen at the mena locker room at the Rock. If found please call Cliff at 1436. 
LOST: GREEN SWEA TEA IN CUSHING. ROOM 208 IF FOUND. CALL JOHN AT 2196 NO QUESTIONS ASKED 
LOST: A ....... and White Siberian 
Hulllly. Aee S rnontl\a. Welgha 45-50 pounda. ......_. to the ,.,. "SHINDIG". Loet on 1·27-&S In the­of EMt ....,.,. s-.If apottad, lo­C81ed, Ollound pleMe ~I Deve 81 232· 0731. 
LOST ~;~lack trench coat 81 Cortly't on Jan.14.1thadallofmyi.D.ai~ltaopleaae 
return u 1000 u poeaible. Reward of· fered. Call Kay at 2903 or 21139. 
LOST pr. of SALOMON SKI BOOTS In d1 atuderlt lot Mon. afternoon. Call Mark a! 17871n312 Dillon. THANKSIII 
FOUND ON JR CLAU SKI TRIP: ONE PAIR Of RED I SKI SUNGLASSES PLEASE CALL JOHN AT 1150. 
LOST:WOMAN'S PETITE NO CLASS RING. GOLD WITH BlUE STONE INI· TIALS, KMK. INSIDE. THIRD FLOOR LAFORTUNE. PLEASE CALL KATHY 40711 
LOST: a gold Citizen -!Ch on Sunday Jan. 27, ..,_ere'*-' Zahm and the Nof1h Dining Halt. lttound. please call Tomllt1244 
Found: 1 pair of blua and grey gloves In 3511 Fltz. Call 4223 
LGet: A beige wool hal "'"" brown acnpea.LGet aometlme Satutday ~t. H found. pleuecal Elic 81283-4352. 

LOST: one pair of black leather gloves on 1130 somewhere around !he art building or Lafotune. If found please call Mike at 2n-3828. 
FOUND: a red and black wool woman's scar!. It smells of a nice perfum, so It is assumed to be a nice woman's scarf, so call 3071! 
To Whomever Found My Wallet In The Parl<ing Lot: I despara!ely need that $200. PLEASE return It to the lost and found or !he law school, no questions asked. Lori 
L. Guzzo 
LOST PACKET OF STUDENT B8 TICK­ETS. SECTION 103 REWARD CALL LEIGHANN SMC 4451 
Lost:pr. of blk ski gloves in H-H on Wed. 2n-8795 
FOR RENT 

Nice lurniahed homes lor next school year. 2n-3604. ' 
WANTED 

Needed: one roommate to live O.C. next year In a 6-room houae ... Rent: $80 plus utillti.....To quallly you must be a Sun Belt-type person who hates the winter and lovee the bMch and surf ... Must Wke to lie­len to the Beach Boya and Jan & Dean ... Call2577 and IISk lor La... 
WANTED: one houaemate lor Campus View Apia. next year. Must be casual s laid "-cit but not a couch potatoe. Call Mike )2n-38norsteve )1509. 
WANTED: 35-yr. old grad. aeminarian needa house/apt. to all, ll!f..B/16. I'<IH pro­vide security/maintenance In exchange lor rent-free place to oleep/atudy. Call 272-2876 altar 5 p.m. References fur­nlahed. 
FOR SALE 

································································ 
KASTLE RX TEAM R.Ong Skia(190's) 1 year old.WIK aetl for $125 (Orig.S225)call 
3008 
TICKETS 

································································ 
HELP! Need 3 Syracuse va NO tickets. PI-call Terry at 19911 
sia··suci(s·;;;;;;;·•·s·viiAcuse·~d·ti~ 
call Mwkx1204 
································································ 
NEED 2 STUD OR GA FOR SYRACUSE CAU. JOANNE 2800 
GO AHEAD· MAKE MY DAY. NEED ONE TIC FOR BYU OR WASH. MATT 3718. 
IT'S THE DEAL OF THE CENTURY! I am willing to trade/sell one or all of my roommates lor Syracuse tixll (I am also willing to pay $$$$) If you can help call Sharon at 2871. 
NEED 3 TIX FOA SYRACUSE GAME. CALL239-7204 OA 233·3412. 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR, CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 II., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
Yo Flo & B.O. : O.C. is the place to be next year. 
We need a roommate for next year... Great OC house ... You mustlo•e the sun­ahlne(sopmething we don't have in SB)...A collection of Beach Boys and Jan&Dean albums is a must.. Call Le at 25n tor further into 
Help educate a child who is unable to learn himaelfl Join the Neighborhood Study Help Program and tutor In the South Bend community. We need tutors. We need youl Many times available. Transportation provided. Call Debbie Doherty-3563. Annie Shaughnessy ­4234. or 5t!Ymour Pigott-1580 lor more info. It's not just a job. it's an adventure! 
Its gelling really cloee! Cant you feel it? 
A CHANGE IS COMING!! 
HUNGRY? CALL THE YELLOW SUB 272-4453 FREE DELIVERY MO. TH 8­11pm FR-SA 8pm-1am 
TICKETS: Need TWO tickets for the Syruuae game. I need these deeperttety!!! My girtfrlend Is coming up and will klH me (not to mention !hinge ahe WON'T do ) WI don't get these tickets. Please help out a fellow Domer who hun't aeen his beautiful girtfrlend In a long, LONG time!! canDan at 2275 today! 
SENIOR SKI TRIP TO SUGAR LOAF MOUNTAIN!! SPOTS STILL AVAILABLE MARCH 1,2,3 $25.00 DEPOSIT SENIOR CLASS OFFICE-1.5 LAFORTUNE MON·FRI6-9 . 
BEST TIME-BEST VALUE: WHERE: DAYTONA BEACH!! WHEN: SPRING BREAK '85. WHO: ALL ND/SMC STU­DENTS. CALL 239-5136 OR STOP BY SENIOR CLASS OFFICE, 1.5 LAFORTUNE, MON-FRI, 6-9pm. 
CAMPUS BIBLE FELLOWSHIP: Have you ever really studied the Bible? Do you know ita main !heme? What is God's m8UIIQ8 to the problems of 19657 We diiCU• this evwy Tues. eYening at 8:30 p.m., 1210 ~-RiCin leave 8:15 p.m., E, door of library. N.D.; 8:15p.m., foyer of~. St. Mary's. Call233­4537 for more info. 
ATTENTION ALL OFF-CAMPUS-ITES: WE'RE HAVING A VALENTINE'S DAY DANCE ON FRIDAY, FEB.8,1985 AT THE AMERICANA YOU CAN PUR­CHASE YOUR TICKETS FOR $10 AT THE REECORD STORE IN LaFORTUNE. FOR INFO. CALL RACE 272·0734. 
OH, VALENTINE! 
BMt the ru!lh....coma up to The Obaarver and P'-your Velentlna'a Day personal thla -k. We've Mt aalde a epectal catagory ju81 101 you to get ,...1 gooey with your hMrtlhrob. The apeclal clay Ia Thuraclay, Feb. 14, bUt avoid long lln.and coma In today. 
Remaber the Sid T•n Tryouta?llonad my brown •-toaornaguy on the van and I can't.-.mber your Mme. II you 1\avalt p..... call Karan 81 x2145. Thanka. 
Better drug the parakeet, It looks like an­other SPONGE-BATH. 
My name is Eric Macklin, and I am pres­ently incarcerated at Florida State Prison, 
P.O. Box 747, Starke, Fla.. 32091. I am 25, 5'8" and 154 lbs. I have no family or friend& and would like to write to anyone. My favorite pastimes include singing, writing songs, playing keyboards and Sax, and studying archaeology. 
ATTENTION NO AND SMC WOMEN If you are interested in a good time with a true dlrtball, (Photos available before, during, and after) Contact Simo Cortly'a, Bndgel's. orNickie's during the prowling hours 
Courtesy ol !he guya who know karate. 
Remember the Keenan Revue Party? HIRE THE ONLY OJ'S THAT MATTER! Call Pat at 3318 or 3317 or Don at 3573. 
Margaret, thanx lor the flowers, but you still owe me a couple of dozen dances! How about Friday night? 
Sprlnpteen Fana:Born in the USA LIVE 18pe(90 min).18 songs.$8. Call 2036.Aiso,new titles in lor sale or trade. 
SPONGE-BATH imported exclusively lor anyone who wants It: 202 Holy Cross 3122 Eric Evans (N-Agent) 
HAROLD B. AUGUSTINE LIVES IN FLORIDA. so to meat this famous fun­lover go to FT. LAUDERDALE OR DAYTONA BEACH wtth the STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD! THESE TRIPS ARE THE QUALITY TRIPS. ONLY SAB OFFERS WHITE SOX BASEBALL, ST. PATRICK'S DAY PARTIES. GET TOGETHERS WITH OTHER UNIVER­SITIES, SCUBA DIVING TRIPS, DAY BOAT EXCURSIONS CAMPING TRIPS IN THE EVERGLADES, AND THE FA· MOUS ALUMNI VAN! GO WITH SAB FOR THE GREATEST TIME. Call SAB or inquire 81 the Racord Store lor more infor­mation. 
ARTIFICIAL BIRTH CONTROL: Is !here another way? Yes.Natural Family Plan­ning is SAFE HEAL THY and EFFEC· TIVE. Everyone invited to learn more Mon.Feb.4,7pm Hayes-Healey Aud. En­gaged and married couples call237-7 401 or 288·2662 to rag1ster for class starting Feb7 on campus. 
Students ol !he female persuasion: Beware! Zahm Hall's Hidden Hearts Dance ia coming up on Feb. 9. Be ready to hear from your favorite Zahmbie lor !he big costume dance. 
SOPHOMORES ROAD TRIP TO CHICAGO Feb 1&-17 (JPW) Only $24 for transportation and hotel cloae to shopping and NIGHTLIFE!! Seedorm reps for com­plete info and to sign up before midnight Feb.4 
SPONGE-BATH-It's not SLOW DEATH but It's cloee. It even overlaps a bit. Sorry about that. 
DEAR GINNY THIS IS JUST TO WISH YOU A HAPPY BIRTHDAY JUST ONE PIECE OF ADVICE---NO MASHING IF YOU CAN'T BE GOOD BE CAREFUL! LOVE PATTI 
Happy 21st Mag. Seven courses of pbj. wine. and great friends. What more could you possibly ask lor! 
SPONGE-BATH-a new generation ol something or other 
TO THE GUY WITH THE PIERCED EAR IN THE 9:30 SOCIAL PROBLEMS CLASS AT SMC-YOU MAKE TUES. DAYS AND THURSDAYS MORE INTER­ESTING. 
.......................................................... . 
CJP-JUST WANTED TO TELL YOU I LOVE YOUI THANK YOU FOA BEING THERE· I THINK WE'Ll MAKE IT! ME 
ATTENTION ND/SMC MASOCHISTS: CAMPUS CRUSADE FOR THE CLAVE 
WANTS YOU. Mu1t have read !he Thomas Coventant books by Stephan A. Donaldson 
ND/SIIC ~: Join the C.mpua Cruude101 the Clave to em-on your hero, Thoma eov-nt. 
Campus Crueaders for the Clave and other Thomas Covenant lana: here's a tip 
l 

Life is an eternal illuaion ... eepecially at Notre Dame. 
LOST 
One!*rof~ 
Somewh-ln North Quad-· caiiW.R.11101i 
5 day& ... that'1 just FIVE DAYS, until the THIRD-ANNUAL-SAUCE TURNER· BIRTHDAY-BASH! More details in a later personal ... 
LISA MARIE VISINGARDI H-'1 your penonal. love, Father Tad 
Giggling boya and Howard men never coma out to •ery good endl. Hey Jimmy!<* what were you. Tom and Rob doing Thursday nigh!? 
Mike Scislaw is a God! Thanks so much lor The Keenan Review tixal P. S. You -ewoncter1ul! 
-Debbie Snowfl Co. 
Who could Iorge! thai Rob Bertino turned 22 yesterday? Happy B. Birthday! 
ECO ECO ECO Meeting of the ENVI· RONMENTAL CONCERNS ORGANIZA· TION Today, 4:30 In the CSC 
ONLY SEVEN MORE DAYS Until the Sclmuck is legal 
Karl Gregor Is a demi-god of love. 
It's February and !he PARTY PATIO lies dormant The stairwells are looking rather empty too. But behind the bar, things are still HOT! 
Happy t9th BIRTHDAY STEVE NIC· GORSKI 
"Fiah" Bolotin: I'm all a-tremble over hera Remember that you can make a snowan­gef lace down too. Peanut. 
Ellen Murray: Great time in Chicago! Again, Peanut. 
PERSONAL ARE OK .... BUT YOU CAN'T PUT PICTURES IN THEM THE OBSERVER NOW HAS A SPECIAL RATE FOR BIRTHDAY DISPLAY AD WE ACCEPT ANYTHING SHOAT OF NUDIES CALL 239-5303 FOA DETAILS 
Valentine Glamour Peeters. Give that special guy hia own poster ol you lor Valentine's Day. Black and white or color. Posters by nationally publiahed model pholographer, Joe Ringer. 287..()613. 
MICHAEL ONLY 6 MORE MONTHS! LOVE YOU LOTS. T 
CAMPUS CRUSADE lor KHAZAD DUM 
TODAY IS THE DAY! The Bobty Boyle Brothers are 211 Tuesday morning odds areln: 4 to I that Mlkey _,.!llhow hie puty lalimandar hide until dinner. Even odds that "Dad" Marl<'s pldly body blows oats all over 2-north. Place your beta! 
TO BIG BRO IN 1128 GRACE, FROM HIKING BOOTS AND FLANNEL SHIRTS TO SHADES AND CHANTS OF RAWHIDE FROM OUR BILLY OCEAN ROAD TRIPS TO IMPROMPTU CHEERS OF OOP MCK! HERE'S HOPING 22 IS AS GREAT AS 211 MAY YOU NEVER TAKE LIFE SERIOUSLY AS YOU DISCOVER YOUR WISDOM OF THE YEARS. HERE'S RAISING ONE ON HIGH FOR VERN S ELMER HAT­HAWAY!! CUMPLEANOS FELICES! LOVE MOO 
._., 
I'U aend you a krlter 1000. AI is not well in the bin. 
TorNny 

The Observer Monday, February 4, 1985 -page 11 
Fuel flow, electrical problems decide fate of 24-Hour race 
Associated Press victory) didn't just slip away, it went 
with a dirty great fall." 
DAYTONA BEACH, Fla.-While the The Bell-Holbert-Unser Jr. car led winners celebrated their good from the fourth hour until just 43 fortune, Englishman Derek Bell minutes from the end, a total of 574 sadly explained the problems that laps around the 3.56-mile, seven­cost him and his teammates a victory turn road circuit. yesterday in the Daytona SunBank But a combination offuel flow and 24-Hours sports car endurance race electrical problems turned the last that had seemed secure until the two hours of the race into a final two hours. nightmare. 
The quartet of A.]. Foyt, Foyt approached Bell as inter­Frenchman Bob Wollek, AI Unser views were beginning following the and Belgian Thierry Boutsen drove a race and said, "It's like a storybook. Porsche 962 prototype -virtually Everything was going good (for identical to the one driven by Bell, you), then everythingwent to hell." AI Holbert and AI UnserJr. -to a stun Wollek drove the last two hours 
ning triumph at Daytona Interna­for his team, which had trailed by as tional Speedway in America's most much as 13 laps Saturday night and · prestigous endurance event. was still four laps behind going into 
the final two hours. 
"It's just an awful feeling," said "I knew when I got into the car Bell, who watched helplessly as that we were picking up l 0 seconds Wollek drove his car past and into a lap," said Wollek, who along with the lead while Bell was desperately Foyt won here in 1983 and finished trying to restart his Porsche. "It (the second last year. "We knew they 
,,---------------~,
i *Scholastic Magazine I I will be accepting applications for* I I Editor-in-Chief. I 
I ******************* I 
II Applications available Monday, 2 I 4 I 85 1 in the Student Activities office. 1 

I *************************** I 
Applications due Friday, 2 I 8 I 85 II in the same office.~ ~ 
\ I 
were having problems and we knew we could win. The only thing we didn't know was they were going to stop." 
Foyt said that after the lead car began to develop problems yester­day, car-owner Preston Henn's team made a decision. 
"We all agreed to go for broke," Foyt said. "We were gonna break the car or win. And we all pretty much agreed that Bob could go the fastest and take care of the car the best at the end." 
The winners, who took the lead for good on lap 681, completed 703 laps, covering 2,502.68 miles at an average speed of 104.162 mph. 
Bell still was leading by a seemingly comfortable three laps when the car stalled on the high banking with 46 minutes remaining. He managed to restart the Porsche after the lead was cut to less than two laps, but it stalled again moments later. 
This time, it took an agonizing 13 minutes to restart the engine. 
It was the second victory in this race for Foyt and Wollek, who won here in 1983 and finished second last year, all in cars owned by Florida flea market owner Preston Henn. 
Both Foyt, 50, and Wollek, 41, had complained about feeling ill prior to and during the race, apparently suf­fering from flu. That's why Henn hired Boutsen, the only Formula One regular in the 76-car starting field, as a fourth driver Saturday night after the car in which he started the race retired with a me­chanical problem. 
But both Foyt, a four-time In­dianapolis 500 winner, and Wollek, 
It was the first such victory for both Boutsen and Unser, a three­time Indy 500 winner making his debut in the International Motor Sports Association Camel GT series. 
It looked like a runaway by early yesterday until the leaders were slowed by a near-miss with the younger Unser at the wheel, a pair of clogged oil filters and, finally, the first ignition problem just 90 minutes from the end. 
Holbert's crew had to change the front bodywork on the car after Un­ser was tapped by another car in the early-morning hours. Then there were two long stops to change the fuel filters and clean out the fuel lines. 
Then, with just 1% hours left, Hol­bert drove the car slowly into the pits with an apparent ignition prob­lem. In fact, the car failed to start for a few moments and the pit stop took three minutes, eight seconds. 
Bell nursed the car through the final 90 seconds, at times turning laps nearly a half-minuteslower than it had been earlier in the race. 
He rolled slowly into the pits one hour from the end. The crew changed "a few ignition parts" in the one-minute stop and the car was back up to speed for a few moments. Bell had just radioed his crew that everything was back to normal when the car quit for the first time. 
They still managed to · finish second after Bell restarted the car the second time and made an eight­minute pit stop. However, it stalled several more times, completing just seven laps in the final hour, and wound up just over 17 laps behind. 
Tiffany Chin holds brightest hopes for 1988 
Associated Press 

KANSAS CITY, Mo. -U.S. figure skating, rebuilding after the Sarajevo Olympics, has three new champions and new hopes for a strong showing at the Calgary Winter Games in 1988. 
The new leaders were crowned during the week-long U.S. figure Skating Championships which ended Saturday at Kemper Arena. 
The brighest prospect, of course, is Tiffany Chin, a 17-year-old schoolgirl from Toluca Lake, Calif., whose champion quality already sets her apart from her competitors. 
Chin, who already is being compared to Olympians Peggy Fleming and Dorothy Hamill, replaces three-time U.S. champion and Olym­pic silver medalist Rosalynn Sumners. 
Brian Boitano, 21, ofSunnyvale, Calif., a runner-up at the nationals the past two years, finally has claimed the men's title for himself. "The frustration is finally over. It's like I've made it over the moun· tain," said the tall skater. 
He replaces four-time U.S. and World champion Scott Hamilton, who retired from amateur skating after winning a gold medal at Sarajevo. 



Ir-----------------------------------1I 
I fbv~c'~" I 
I I I I I I I I 
I ALL HARDBOUND TRADEBOOKS I II 25% OFF II II * 1 WEEK ONLY * * FEBRUARY 4-9 * II 
Non-Fiction • Fiction • Cookbooks • Sports • Art • Crafts 
I Gift Books • Religious • Children's Books I 
I 2ND FLOOR BOOK DEPT. -HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE II 
The 962s that swept the top four spots are the latest in a series of Porsche models that have dominated this race. 
In fact, it was the ninth straight time that a Porsche-powered car has won this event and the 11th time in 12 years. The only others to take the checkered flag here during that time were a Porsche-powered March in 1984 and a BMW csl in 1976. 
Third place went to the 962 co­
driven by Jim Busby, Rick Knoop 
and West GermanJochan Mass, a dis­
tant 29 laps behind, while the 
fourth-place 962 was shared by Bob 
Akin, West German Hans Stuck and 
Paul Miller, 33 laps back of the win­
ner. 
One of the older Porsche Turbo 
935s was fifth, co-driven byJim Mul­
len, Ray Mcintyre and Canadian 
Kees Nierop, 35 laps behind. 
The GTO division winner, a Ford Mustang driven by Canadian John Jones, Wally Dallenbach and Doc Bundy, finished eighth overall, while the GTIJ division was taken by the Mazda RX-7 of Amos Johnson, Jack Dunham and Yojiro Terada ofJapan, which was 12th overall. 
There were several crashes and off-course excursions during the long race, but the only notable in­jury was incurred by veteran IMSA racer Bob Tullius, who suffered minor burns on his right hand. 
Tullius, driving a Jaguar XJR-5 in secondplace Saturday night -on the same lap with the leader -was injured when a tire went flat as he drove through the chicane on the long backstretch. The car's oil cooler was cut open in the incident. 


Goon a Fashion Fling! 

..~-~---~ -----~ -~----------------~------~ ------~~-------­
.. 

The Observer Monday, February 4, 1985-page 12 

second half behind Koncak, the 7­
foot Olympian, and Scott Johnson, 
who equaled his season high with 14 
points. 
Greg Hines led the Owls with 14 
points. 
Orangemen 71, Warriors 53 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. -Rony Scikaly and Rafael Addison scored 19 points each yesterday as No. 9 Syracuse trampled Marquette, 71-53, in an in­tersectional college basketball 
game. 
The Orangemen exploded from a 36-32 halftime deficit behind the new-found scoring prowess of Seikaly, a 6-foot-1 0 freshman center who set a career mark, and Addison, for their 15th triumph in 18 starts. Marquette dropped to 1 1-7 for the season. 
Marquette, which overcame a seven-point disadvantage in the first half, was paced by Tom Copa's 14 points and Benny Moore's 12. 
Dwayne Washington contributed 1 1 for the Orangemen. 

Box Score 
Notre Dame (53) UCLA(52) 
M FG-A FT-A R F p M FG-A FT·A R F p Dolan 35 5-9 0-0 5 1 10 Maloncon 26 2-7 2-2 6 2 6 Barlow 38 3-10 0-0 4 4 6 Miller 40 4-11 6-6 4 1 14 Royal 36 3-6 3-3 4 2 9 Wright 37 5-8 2-2 5 1 12 Rivers 37 7-12 4-7 3 1 18 Hatcher 29 4-8 0-0 2 3 8 Price 34 4-6 0-0 2 3 8 Miguel 32 3-6 1-1 2 2 7 Hicks 5 0-1 0-0 2 0 0 Jackson 17 1-4 0-0 2 1 2 Kempton 6 0-1 0-0 0 1 0 Immel 13 0-2 1-2 2 1 1 Beeuwsaert 4 1-2 0-0 1 3 2 Gaines 6 1-1 0-0 1 3 2 Voce 2 0-0 0-1 0 0 0 200 20-47 12-13 24 15 52 Duff 3 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 FG Pet. .426. FT Pet. -.923. Team 
200 23-47 7-11 21 15 53 rebounds -5. Turnovers -21. Assists -11 
FG Pet. -.489. FT Pet. -.636. Team (Wright, lmmel3). Technicals-none. rebounds -2. Turnovers -15. Assists -12 Halftime -UCLA 35, Notre Dame 32. Offi­(Rivers 8). Technicals-none. cials-Turner, Harrington, Borucki. A -12,034. 
SMU centerjon Koncak tallted 22 points, nine rebounds andfive blocked shots yesterday as the No. 4-ranked Mustangs hulled over Rice, 68-52. Second-ranked Georgetoum and ninth-ranked Syracuse were also winners yesterday, trouncing Arkansas and Marquette, respectively. Story is at right. 
JUNIOR PARENTS' 

*Tonight from 7-9 p.m. in the Nazz 
* 
May bring a maximum of 6 ID's to reserve two tables (10 people each) 

* 
Call Any Reinhardt, 2494, if questions 


I~HiEVEM-E-NT--, 


WORKSHOP 
I  What are the characteristics  
ofHigh Achievers?  
I I  How do I translate a vision of success into reality?  
Counseling & Psychological  
Services Center  
ROOM 300  
WED., FEB 6th  
I  6:30-8:30 p.m.  

I Call Ahead .... Enrollment Limited .... Sign Up Now 
Syracuse, SMU breeze 
Georgetown breaks losing streak 
Associated Press 

Hoyas56, Razorbacks 39 
LANDOVER, Md. -Patrick Ewing 
scored 18 points and keyed a tena­
cious defensive effort that helped 
second-ranked Georgetown 
rebound after two losses yesterday 
with a 56-39 college basketball vic­
tory over Arkansas. 

The Hoyas improved their record to 19-2. David Wingate contributed 14 points and grabbed 12 rebounds for the defending NCAA champions, who had won 29 straightgames until 
losing by a point to St.John'sjan. 26. 
Arkansas, which got 22 points from Charles Balentine, was held to its lowest point total ofthe season. 
Men 

continuedjrompage 16 
Rick, a football standout at St. Joseph's High in South Bend... Yes­terday was only UCLA's 22nd loss ever at Pauley. Digger Phelps­coached Irish teams have handed the Bruins five of those losses... It was the Beeuwsaert family reunion following the game as Matt, a star last year at Mater Dei High School in nearby Santa Ana, Calif., reunited with a slew offamily and friends. He sawe four minutes of first-half ac­tion, hitting 1-2 from the field before going out with three fouls... Forty­five minutes before the start of yes­terday's game, Phelps went over and sat in the UCLA student section as a promo for NBC-lV. His fabled rela­tionship with the students of this 
L.A. school continued when they chanted that he was a wimp and he blew them a kiss moments before the tipoff. 
Georgetown wasted little time in expanding its 30-20 halftime lead. Wingate opened the second half with a basket and two free throws, and the advantage swelled to 42-26 when Ewing tipped in an errant Hoya shot with 13:47 to play. 
Arkansas, meanwhile, could get 
no offense from anyone but 
Balentine, a 6-foot-6 senior. 

The Razorbacks, who start three 
freshmen, fell to 1 5-8. 
Mustangs 68, Owls 52 

DALLAS -Center Jon Koncak scored 22 points, collected nine rebounds and blocked five shots yes­terday to muscle fourth-ranked Southern Methodist to a 68-52 Southwest Conference basketball victory over Rice. 
SMU, which increased its overall record to 18-2, improved its SWC mark to 8-1. The Owls, who lost their seventh consecutive game, fell to 8-11 and 1-8. 
SMU, leading 21-20 at halftime, outscored Rice 18-2 to start the 

~---"~--~-­
The Observer Monday, February4, 1985-page 13 
Ice stortns, Chargers  
put freeze on the Irish  
By ED DOMANSKY  I'evitalized Irish squad take the ice  
Sports Writer  and  the  same  energy carried  the  
Irish throughout the overtime per­ 
HUNTSVILLE,  Ala.  -The  Notre  iod.  
Dame hockey team came here for a  Huntsville took its early 4-1 lead  
little  revenge  against  Alabama­ in the first period on two quick goals  
Huntsville, who defeated the Irish  in the first five minutes of the game.  
twice last year.  Instead,  the Irish  Brian Kelly was the first to light up  
could only manage a 7-7 tie and a 9-4  the scoreboard with his slap shot at  
loss, and remain in Huntsville, the  3:50 in the first period. Kevin Mill  
victims of a severe, unexpected ice  extended the Charger lead to 2-0  
storm.  Sellout  crowds  were  ex­ when he skated in from the right  
pected just like last year, but the  side on a Huntsville power play and  
weather limited the crowds to 1,615  flipped the puck over Notre Dame's  
on Friday and 2, 1 52 on Saturday.  Guay at 5:28. Kelly again found the  
Friday's contest saw the Irish in a  back  of the  net  just  2:56  later,  
bind as they faced a 4-1 deficit in the  making it a 3-0 Charger lead.  
first period, but some spirited play  The only Irish goal came at the  
by Lefty Smith's squad saw the Irish  end of an Irish power play when  
salvage the tie in overtime against  Chapman  took  a  pass from  Mike  
Irish co-captain Bob Thebeau connected on a slap shotfrom the rightpointtoputNotreDame up, 3-0, in Saturday's meeting with Alabama­Huntsville. But a missed shot off the rim by Tim  The ( >b~cn erI Johannes Hacker Reilly turned the momentum around, and the Chargers came back to win the game, 9-4. Friday's contest ended In a 7-7 tie. Ed Domansky bas the wrap-ups at right.  the Chargers. "It took a lot ofcharacter to come back," said the Irish mentor. "We were down but the kids just kept playing. It was a solid effort from  McNeill at the right face-off circle and fired it past Moerner. Steve Ely scored just 1:57 into the second period for the Irish, making it a 4-2 game, and it looked like the  


Track squad wins third time in row 
ByJOHN COYLE 
Sports Writer 
Relatively speaking, the Irish run­ners hardly broke a sweat as they won the Midwestern City Confer­ence Track Championships Saturday 
for the third consecutive year. Notre Dame thoroughly dominated the competition by winning 14ofthe 16 events. 
The all-freshmen contingent of Paul Duvair, Rick Mulvey, Nick Sparks and John Dadamio captured the 4x880 relay with a time of 
8:02.6. Senior Bill Courtney's time of 4: 16.6 was good for first place in the The sprinters for Notre Dame also 
mile. fared well. The trio of Van Eyken, It was a one-two finish in the 880-Brandy Wells and Ragunas swept the 
yd. run for the Irish. Duvair edged Sparks with a time of 1:58.6. The 600-yd. dash also provided a one­two Irish finish. Junior Van Pearcy topped teammate John McNelis with his time of 1:11.1. 
In the 300-yd. dash, Mitch Van Eyken (31.75) took first and Tony Ragunas finished third for the Irish. 
JeffVan Wieand Dadamio finished one-two in the 1,000-yd. run with times of 2:16.6 and 2:19.4, respectively. Tim Cannon, a senior, took the three-mile run with a time of 14:23.3. 

SKI $389 
per person
SPRING BREAK 


WINTER PARK 

Prices based upon 4 -8 per unit 
OPTIONAL LIFT TICKETS AND RENTALS AVAILABLE 
For reservations ask for Dawn Package Includes: 
* 
Roundtrip non-atop oervice between South Bend and Depvar 

* 
Charter motorcoacb transfer• 


* 
7 nighto accommodations at the High Country Rauo Condoa 

* 
Daily Ski Shuttle 

* 
All taxu 



~source
-.Travel 
Box 1602 • South Bend, Indiana 46634 • (219)236-2656 
60-yd. dash finishing first, second, and third, respectively. In the 440­yd. dash, it was senior Dan Shannon and Robert Nobles finishing one­two for the Irish. 
The three-mile run was also won by Cannon in 14:23.3. The foursome of Nobles, Paul O'Connell, Jim Sul­livan and Shannon took the 4x440 relay. 
It was a very successful day in the field for Notre Dame. Chris Matteo set a meet record of 15-3 to win the pole vault. Captain James Patterson remained undefeated for the season by winning the long and triple jumps. Uoyd Constable set a meet mark of7-0 as he took the high jump. In the shot, Tom Mick and Dave Poehlin finished third and fourth, respectively. 
Coach Joe Piane had good reason to be pleased after the meet. The im­pressive performance of his team was reflected in the fact that the Irish set a new league record of 
242.5 total points. 
everyone." 
A Steve Whitmore goal at 16:08 of the third period sent the game into overtime for the Irish. Whitmore sent a backhand shot through the legs ofCharger goalie Steve Moerner to secure the tie. At the end of two, the Irish still trailed, 5-3, but goals by Tom Mooney andJohn Nickodemus just 1:21 apart pulled the Irish even with Alabama-Huntsville. 
The Chargers then scored twice to go back up by two goals, 7-5. But Rich Sobilo deflected teammate Lance Patten's shot at 15:34 to pull the Irish within one, and the stage was set for Whitmore's tying goal. 
"The team finally came together," said co-captain Brent Chapman. "The freshman ace playing like up­perclassmen and everything is fi­nally starting to work out." 
The triumph for the Irish ( 6-14-1 ) ends a 10-game losing string on the road. Huntsville's ledger stands at 14-6-1. 
Notre Dame goalies Marc Guay and Tim Lukenda tallied 50 saves to­gether, while Moerner stopped 40 Notre Dame shots. The Irish looked very sluggish in the first two periods and had a hard time controlling the puck and clearing the zone against a quick Charger attack. 
The start of the third period saw a 
EUROPEAN 
TRAVEL 
We specialize in student trips! 
SEVEN SEAS TRAVEL 
• AIR • LAND • GROUP 
• TOURS 



1232-79951 
525 N. MICHIGAN 
Ir-------------i 


BOOTHSPECIAL I 
I I 
I Buy 15 visits I
I 
at$40 I 1 get5FREE 
I 
I I
1--------------i
I I
BED SPECIAL 

~ ':? ~ Tan with your t!J(}f!Jft) 
I I

~() 
Valentine ~r!)~ I 7 visits $28 I ~~ I (reg. $39) 1
(or someone else's) ()
c:) I I 
1-------------1 
COMBO SPECIAL

'mN-HAWA1vi I I 
I 6 bed & 6 booth I

sun tonnr'Q solon 
I visits $49 I 
-plus­

2n-1o26 I I 
I 
2 bed & 2 booth 1 

REDEEM BY FEB. 14, 1985 FREEforafriend

'-------------------L-------------J 
Irish were finally ready to play. But a 
Mike Finn goal on new goalie 
Lukenda just 43 seconds later once 
again made it a three-goal margin, 5­
2. 
The Irish started where they left 
off Friday -with a fury. Notre Dame 
opened up red hot, but then became 
cold as it dropped a 9-4 decision to 
Huntsville Saturday. 
The Irish, 6-15-1 and winless in 12 road games, came out of the blocks at full speed opening up a 3-1 lead by the end of the first period, but they then becamesilentfor the rest ofthe contest. 
The Chargers, 1 5-6-1, scored six times in the second period to put the game on ice for Huntsville. The Charger attack was led by a second­period hat trick by Winston Walker, who scored at 4:02, 10:53, and 12:56. 
Brent Chapman opened the 
scoring for Notre Dame with a goal 
from the right side of the slot off a 
Mike McNeill pass. Tom Mooney 
worked a two-on-one with Jeff 
Badalich for the second Irish goal at 
10:31. 
Just 21 seconds later, Bob Thebeau once again found the back of the net for the Irish. This time it was a slap shot from the right point that extended the Irish lead to 3-0. 
Less than a minute later Mike Lobes scored for Huntsville. 
The Irish had their opportunity to take command of the momentum in the second period. Less than 30 seconds into the new period, Tim Reilly bounced a shot offthe post for the Irish. But from that point on the Chargers took control of the situa­tion. 
"Our defensemen played hor­ribly," said Notre Dame coach Lefty Smith. "We took selfish penalties and that's what killed us. Those were big factors." 
"We let down after the first per­iod," said Notre Dame defenseman Rob Ricci. "We stopped playing as a team. We were sitting back and they just kept coming at us." 
Huntsville outshot Notre Dame, 28-1 1 , in the second stanza. 
Chapman nailed the final Notre Dame goal in the third period on a five-on-three power play. At one time, Chapman, Reilly, and McNeill were all stopped from point-blank range by Charger netminder Baccy Friedman, who was credited with 39 saves. 
Chapman had three breakaway chances at Friedman and was turned away each time. 
Lukenda and Guay were hit with 4 7 Charger shots while sharing the duties in the net. 
The Irish will return to the ACC next weekend to face Iowa State. 

The Observer Monday, February 4, 1985 -page 14 
Year's first home win comes easy 
Irish swim to victory over Belles 
By MARY SIEGER 

Sports Writer 
It was standing room only Satur­day afternoon in the Rockne Memorial Pool as the Notre Dame women's swim team chalked up its first home victory of 1985 against Saint Mary's College. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's fans poured into the steamy galleries to watch the Irish defeat the Belles, 84­54, in a relaxed dual meet. "A lot of people <:arne to watch and it was a nice surprise," said Notre Dame co­captain Venettt· Cochiolo. "When someone is watching us, it helps us do better." 
Saturday's lo~s drops the Belles' season record to 0-3. While the 

Women 
continuedfrom page 16 

and because we've used full-court pressure effectively," explained Coach Mary DiStanislao. "That's really gotten our confidence going. We're going to keep on using the full-court pressure. We'll be selective about how we use it, but you'll be seeing it. 
"This was our best effort of the season, as far as team chemistry is concerned. llikt· the lineup we used tonight (with Lynn Ebben and Mary Gavin joining Schueth, Keys, and Botham). It was interesting to see Lynn working as a passer instead ofa scorer. Mary Gavin and Mary Beth played well, and Trena is continuing to improve with every game. The better she plays, the better things will go for us this season." 
The only negative point on the stat sheet for Notre Dame was in the turnover column, where the Irish had 21. But many of those occurred because the Irish were working the ball inside for most of the evening. 
"I think this was our best passing game of the season," said DiStanis­lao. "We had a high number of turn­overs, but we still did a good job against the zone. I'd rather have a few turnovers than waste a lot of chances for opportunistic baskets. 
"You can't afford to take any team lightly in conft·rence games, be­cause everyone knows what every­one else does well and doesn't do well. With that kind of familiarity, you've just got to go out and do the things you do well. That's what we accomplished in this game." 
Conference play continues for Notre Dame Wednesday night, as the Irish travel to Dayton to take on the confernece-leading Flyers. 
Friday Night's Result Notre Dame 74, Evan.wllle S3 Evan.'iVIIIe (S3) 

M  FG-A  FT-A  R  F  p  
Spear  32  3-S  1-2  I  2  
Bujlhe'  .~0  t-10  0-0  3  2  8  
Rathma<·hcr  30  0-1  1·3  4  s  
llrand·Adlard  .~8  6-20  0-2  2  I  12  
DykMra  32  6-14  0-0  3  0  12  
CaM"IIa  3  0·2  0·0  I  0  0  
Orpurt  IS  2-7  2·2  2  ()  6  
lkn'd  0·1  ().()  ()  ()  
Martin  10  2·3  1·2  0  s  
l.ovell  I  0·0  0·1  ()  ()  0  
Crouch  II  1-1  0-0  I  2  
200 24-64  S-12  19  11  S3  

FG P~t.-..~:s. FT P~t -.417. Team rebound'· -;,Turnover~ II. A~'iM~ · IS (llrand-Adlard 6). 
Tc~hnkals · none. 
Notre Dame (74) M FG-A FT-A R F 
p 

Ehhen 30 1·4 0·2 3 3 2 S<·hueth 24 6-9 3·.'1 12 2 IS ..,_II
llotham 17 1.·2 6 4 16 Gavin 2.~ 1-3 0-0 l. Keys 3S 12·20 1·2 II I 2S llrommdand 2S 6-8 ().() s 2 12 l>oujlherty 13 0·2 0·0 I 0 () Barron 6 1·2 0·0 2 0 2 Kal\t·r II 0-1 0-0 2 3 0 lla.,ford 1.~ 0·0 0-0 0 0 Morriscm .'1 0·1 0·0 I 0 1.0034-58 6-9 44 18 74 
FGP~t . .SII<>. FT P~t.-.667. Team rebound'. :\. Turnover~ -l.l. A~b.ts · 1.~ (Gavin II). Tc~hnkal' -none 
Balftlnu· Notre !>arne: 43, Evan•villc 27. Of­ficiab · Donna Wegner. Keith Fisher .. A· I S3. 
small Belles squad was not expect­ing to topple the Irish, Saint Mary's swimmers were attempting to im­prove their times and mark their im­provement over earlier meets. 

The Belles grabbed several second-place finishes in Saturday's meet and Jenny Pancratz, Meghan Rafferty, Ellen Byrne and Joyce Mur­tagh claimed first place in the 200­yard freestyle relay race. Rafferty also established a new meet record at I :05.7 in the I00-yard backstroke. 
Friction between the two teams diminished over the Christmas break after the Belles and the Irish shared a hotel during an intensive training trip to San Juan, Puerto Rico. Saint Mary's first-year coach Dan Flynn co-captained last year's Notre Dame men's swim team and his Belles will be back in action Wednesday night as they travel to Albion College in Michigan. 
"It was a friendly, competitive meet," said Notre Dame head coach Dennis Stark. "It was competitive in the water, but it was friendly out of the pool, which is good because of the closeness of the two teams." 

Notre Dame took command ofthe meet from the start and the Irish im­proved their record in the series to 5-0. "It was a relaxed meet and very friendly," said Cochiolo. "It was low key compared to last year." 
Several Irish swimmers estab­lished new meet records during Sat­urday's contest. Among them was freshman diver Andrea Bonny who 
,.........R~~~~·;~··H·~·i·;···~ 
Styling 

I 
531 N. Michigan St.. b Phone 233-4957 JQi
•..........-........................................~ 

ave 1 •• 
With Thursday's issue, you will have the chance to do more than just tell your friends how you like The Observer. You will be able to tell us. Inserted into the issue will be the 1985 Observer Readership Survey, the greatest attempt to determine your needs since the newspaper was founded 18 years ago. 
We'll ask you how we've been covering news, sports, opinion and entertainment on campus. We'll ask you if you like more of this, or less of that. And best of all, it should only take five minutes to complete. 
So, on Thursday, take the time to help The Observer. Let us have it, and we'lllet you have it--the best possible daily newspaper. 
set records in the one-and three­meter dive. 
Barbara Byrne's performance in the 500-yard freestyle race brought the crowd to life and established a new meet record at 5:37.3. Coc­hiolo's strong finsh in the 50-yard breast-stroke race brought the crowd to its feet and gave her a meet record of :33.3. 
"We had a lot ofgood swims," said Stark. "It enabled the girls to swim other things and some did well in the new things under a competitive situation." 
Instead of swimming their usual events, the Irish swam NAIA dis­tances which are shorter than NCAA standards. The shorter distances 
allowed the Irish to swim in a more relaxed atmosphere and helped them prepare for the upcoming Northstar Conference Meet later this month. 
"It was fun swimming the shorter events," said Cochiolo. "It gave us a break from the normal events be­cause sometimes you burn out from swimming the same events. 
"We knew who they had," the junior co-captain continued. "But I think we gave them some good com­petition to swim against and a chance to improve their times." 
The Irish will put their 7-1 season record on the line tommorow at 4 
p.m. when they play host to Kalamazoo College. Tommorow's meet will be the final home dual meet ofthe season. 
The Notre Dame women's swim team earned an easy 84-54 vic­tory over the Belles ofSaint Mary's College Saturday in the Rockne Memorial. The win was thefirstathomefor the Irish in 1985. Notre Dal{le coach Dennis Stark praised the relaxed andfriendly atmo­sphere ofthe meet. Mary Sieger details the meet at left. 
ALANON Mondays ..... 5:30 p.m. 
Counseling & Psychological Services Center Room 316 
Does someone significant to you have a drinking problem? Does it affect you? Maybe we can help. Call239-5085 
Save the DOME! 
We're looking for abroad pictures from each ofthe last two semesters. Ifyou can help, please call the DOME office, 239 -7524, or call Sue at 4035. 
e 

~c:tcJlC3L~------------------------------~-M-o-nd_a_y,_Fe_b_ru_ruy
__4_,_19_8_5__p_a.ge_I_5 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
~ MIK&,fAJIAT A 6ROUP a= NE/AJ YORJ(Eii?S I JUST I JISTWANT 
HA~ 8C£N HAPPENEIJ Hf3/JJ A RI?EFIGHTON MY IUANT70 70813l£FT CALLING TO YOU FJEHALF. THcPt?ES5HA5 !J8-8tLEFT At.CWt!r 
HERE, 700? TOfliJ.Y? CIOW fM TH/5 WE3EK'5 AUJNt! 
S05AI07H&
I I 
TankMcNamara 

BCRNHAR[)GC£TZ. 
RELlJCTANT
/ 

~ 5UFJIAJAY 
Hlf?D.. 

Jeff Millar & Bill Hinds 

The Far Side 
Cl 1985 Umversal Prass Syndtcate 
"OK. Baxter. If that's your game. I'll jus! reach over and push a few of your buttons." 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 30 Scot. regi· 63 John of song 9 Uniting 1 Perimeter: mentaIs 65 "Let-" 10 Island capital abbr. 34 Light wood 66 Double curve 11 As before 
5 Trembled 37 Raise-67 Dodge by deceit 10 Buss 39 Norway city 68 Placid 12 Dry 14 Chin. housegirl 69 Threadlike 13 Anon 15 Islam text 40 In a frenzy 70 Got one's goat 23 Slippery one 16 Thought: pref. 71 Wargod
41 Moon crater 25 Author Levin 
42 -·do-well 27 Alpine activity 17 -California 43 Riviera roast 29 Made runs 18 Famous fiddle 44 Oil country DOWN 31 Words of 
maker 1 Plotters comprehension 19 Pianist Peter 
45 Expel 2 Reflection 32 Type of eng. 20 Ice cream 
46 Kriss-3 Indian rulers 33 Kind thickener 
48 First name in 4 "Westward Ho" 21 Vietnam 
films author 34 Canine warning holiday 
50 Comic Radner 35 Cupid 
52 Send back to 5 Glaciarium 36 Fr. writer 22 Seed covering jail user Pierre 24 Howard of 56 Got by 6 Diamond 38 Literary 
movies 59 Certain soldier destination collection 26 -Park, Co.J. 61 Healing plant 7 Speechify 41 American plover 28 Goes astray 62 Soviet city 8 Grain 45 Compass pt. 
47 " ... the ~iftle 54 Aristocratic -us... 55 Thinks 49 Did laundry 56 Lacking work 57 Jason's craft 51 Conductor 58 Escape slowly Dorati 60 Cipher 53 Wedding site 64 56 
Friday's Solution 
Campus . 
•3:30 
-4:30 p.m. -Computer Minicourse, Macintosh Wordprocessing, Room 104 Comput­ing Center, Free, Available to Public, Call239-5604 to Register. 

•4 
p.m. -Finance Forum Lecture, "Airline Finan­cial Strategies in a Deregulated Environment," Steven Rothmeier, Northwest Airlines, Inc., Hayes Healy Auditorium. 

•4 
p.m. -Lecture, "Adults and Their Parents: Scheduled and Unscheduled Transitions and Their Relationships," Dr. Gunhild Hagestad, Penn State University, Room 509 Memorial Library. 

•4:30 
p.m. -General Meedng, Environmental Concerns Organization, Center for Social Con­cerns. 

•6 
p.m. -Student Senate Meedng, Senior Bar. 

•6:30 
p.m. -General Meedng, ND Women's Caucus, 2nd Floor, Center for Social Concerns. 

•7 
p.m. -lnformadon Night, Campus Ministry and Natural Family Planning, Hayes Healy Auditorium, Everyone Welcome. • , 

•7 
& 9 p.m. -Monday Night Fllm Series, "Blow­Up," AnnenbergAuditorium. 

•7, 
9 & 11 p.m.-Fllm, "Casablanca," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board. 

•7 
& 9:30p.m. -Fllm, "Woman of the Year," Car­roll Hall (SMC), $1.50. 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Apostolic Traditions and the Origins of Gnosticism," Prof. Helmut Koester, Visiting Professor at Harvard Divinity School, Biol­ogy Auditorium. 


TV Tonight 
7:00p.m. 7:30p.m. 8:00p.m. 9:00p.m. 9:30p.m. 
I O:OOp.m. ll:OOp.m. 

16 M*A*S*H 22 Three's Company 28 jeopardy 
16 Barney Miller 
22 WKRP In Cincinnati 
28 Wheel ofFortune 
16 1V Bloopers and Practical Jokes 
22 Scarecrow & Mrs. King 
34 Wonderworks 
16 Movie -The Dirty Dozen 
22 Kate & Allie 
34 American Playhouse 
22 Newhart 
22 Cagney & Lacey 
34 Piano Players Rarely Ever Play To· gether 
16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 Movie 
-


It's raucous, joyful and sometimes bluesy... 
The Tony Award winning musical "Ain't Misbehavin" is coming to Notre Dame from New York City ... 
Sunday, February 17,1985 O'Laughlin Auditorium, SMC 8:00p.m. 
Tickets on sale NOW!! $5 reserved seating 
Sold at ND Record Store, O'Laughlin Box Office, and Century Center Box Office. 
•••••••••••• DON'T MISS IT 
~-------------------·--------------------~ 
• 
[IfT S.A.B. Record Store servicing your mus1c needs: -topes 
-albums -tickets 

in LaFortune Student Center 
Open: 10:00-4:00, Monday-Friday 
L--------------------·--------------------~ 

r-----------------------~----------------~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Monday, February 4, 1985-page 16 
S~orts 
Rivers leads Irish to first vic,tory over UCLA in five years 
After seven consecutive losses to the Bruins, Notre Dame wins at Pauley Pavilion, 53-52 
ByJEFF BL'UMB  layup after Brad Wright stole the ball  most everything of UCLA's in the  
Assista11t!>ports Editor  from Dolan and sent it up upcourt to  final minutes, it wouldn't click, and  
the wide-open Miguel.  the Irish left Southern California  
LQS ANGF.LES -When David  After a timeout, Notre Dame ran  with their first win over the Bruins  
Rivers was introduced for yester­ its delay offense for a minute and a  in eight games and five years.  
day's Notr~:: Uam~::-UCLA basketball  half, until Rivers broke free and  "I'm really proud of the kids,'  
game, the UCLA student s~::ction  drove the middle of the lane before  Phelps said. "There were a lot of  
chanted, "Who's he?" Forty minutes  pulling up for a short jumper to send  times when we could have lost our  
later, a natmnal audience and all  the Irish margin back to four, 53-49.  composure but didn't. In previous  
- 12,034 fans in Pauley Pavilion knew  Ten seconds later, Miguel  games, we had lacked the knockout  
exactly who Notre Dame's freshman  powered in for a layup. and was  punch. Today we had it."  
guard was.  fouled by Joseph Price. He  "This win gets us over a big  
His 18 points and 8 assists  proceeded to convert the three­ hump," added Rivers, who didn't  
propelled the Irish to a come-from·  point play, pulling UCLA back to  seem to be at all bothered by the raz­ 
behind, 53· 52 victory over the  within one, 53-52, with 84 ticks of  zing he received throughout the  
Bruins. 1be win, which was not  the clock still remaining.  game from the UCLA student sec­ 
ensured until UCLA's attemptt:d lob  Dan Duff then had the ball stolen  tion. "We'd been struggling lately.  
for a basket with one second left fell  from him by Miguel with 4 7 seconds  Hopefully what we accomplished  
harmlessly away. broke a string of  left, and the Bruins called timeout to  here can carry over to the rest ofthe  
seven straight UCLA wins over  set up for a final chance at the win.  season."  
Notre Dame.  Gary Maloncon's jumper clanked  Hazzard admitted that UCLA's 78­ 
Ding dong, the witch is dead.  off the rim and went out of bounds  77 double-overtime loss at USC on  
"It's great to finally beat UCLA,"  with 20 seconds left, but Price had  Friday n ight, as well as the inexperi­ 
said a jubilant Irish coach Digger  fouled Wright underneath in going  ence of his team, may have affected  
Phelps after the narrow victory.  for the loose ball.  yesterday's outcome.  
"This is a big win for us. We needed a  Lucky break and another gasp for  "The turnovers killed us," said the  
big road win. We knew we could  the Bruins.  first-year head coach. "We're still  
grab it and needed the confidence  After another UCLA timeout.  growing and learning to win. But  
this win will give us now."  Reggie Miller, UCLA's leading scorer  we'll take the growth and move on  
Notre Dame, which had led for  in the game with 14 points, lofted a  from here. "Our players definitely  
most of the game's first I 0 minutes,  bomb from the left side with seven  were tired today. We played a 50­ 
then fell behind and did not regain  seconds left. It, too, went wide, but  minute game just 36 hours ago. The  
the lead until Rivers' 20-foot jumper  the ball went out of bounds off the  kids are only human."  
from the right side with 7:21 left in  Irish with one second left in the  UCLA had started the game  
the game. Following a UCLA timeout  game.  strong, reversing an 18-12 Notre  
at 6:59, Jim Dolan hit a corner  A final gasp for the Bruins.  Dame lead to its favor, 21-18, with a  
jumper off a Rivers feed, and the Irish had a three-point lead at 48-45. Nigd Miguel rebounded his own miss to bring the Bruins back to within one, but Rivers then fed Donald Royal for an easy layup on an  "Reggie usually makes that shot," said a weary UCLA coach Walt Haz­zard later. "They were giving it to him. Sometimes weeks go by with­out him missing it." "It looked good from where I  9-0 run over a 2:33 period midway through the first session. When Miller hit two free throws with 4:08 left in the half, giving the Bruins a 31-25 advantage, it marked  The Obscrvf'r/Vtc Guarlno Freshman guard David Rivers fonnal/y introduced himself to a national audience and the UCLA students cbantitJg "Who's be?" yesterday, scoring 18points and dishing out eight assists in Notre Dame's 53-52 win over tbe Brnins.jeffBlumb details tbe Irish vic­tory, theirfirst in five years over UCLA, at left.  
inbounds play. Royal was fouled,  was," Miller said of the shot. "But  the end of a 19-7 UCLA spurt over  with LaSalle in the ACC. UCLA drops St. Louis. . UCLA football coach  
stepped to the line and made the  when it hit the rim, I knew it was  6:53 which would give the home  to .500, now standing at 9-9. Terry Donahue was at yesterday's  
free throw, and Notre Dame's lead  short. I just didn't put enough En­ team the impetus to go into the lock­ IRISH ITEMS ­Tim Kempton saw contest, but he may have been there  
was up to four, 51-47, with 4:52  glish on it."  erroom up at the half, 35-32.  only six minutes of action in the to do more than watch the game.  
showing on the clock.  Following its final timeout, UCLA  Notre Dame's win improved its  game, still bothered by the after-Donahue was recruiting Phelps' son  
Miguel responded a-minute-and­a-half later with an uncontested  had Miguel try for the lob to Montel Hatcher off the inbounds. But, like  record to 12-5 overall this season, as the Irish head to a Wednesday battle  effects of the flu which kept him out see MEN, page 12 oflast Wednesday night's game with  

Women raise season record to 10-7 with 74-53 trouncing of Evansville 
By LARRY BURKE points and six rebounds, while game. I had the record in the back of Sports Writer Schueth had 1 5 points and Kathy my mind, though. Brommeland chipped in with 12. "'The record means a lot to me 
The Notre Dame women's basket-Evansville's high scoring guards. right now, but I think it'll mean even ball team made its homecoming a Shelly Brand-Adlard and Barb more in the years ahead when !look happy one Friday night at the ex-Dykstra, were held in check by the back on it. It's not a glaring record in pense of the Lady Aces of Evansville. Irish for most of the night. Each itself, but it's something that sig­In their first ACC contest since Jan. managed just 12 points, with Brand-nifies a lot ofeffort. I'd like to think I 14, the Irish dominated every phase Adlard hitting just six of 20 shots got the record by working hard." ofthe game en route to a convincing from the field and Dykstra only six of Notre Dame worked hard enough 74-53 victory. 14. Friday night to rout an Evansville 
Notre Dame raised its record to The Irish opened up a nine-point team that lost to conference-leader I 0-7 with the win, and now stands lead in the first three minutes, and Dayton by just three points earlier 3-1 in the North Star Conference. stretched their advantage to 19-3 this season. After leading by 16 Evansville fell to 3-14, 2~2 in the over the next three minutes as Keys points at intermission, the Irish put NSC. · ( 10 points), Schueth (five), and Bot-the game out of reach by opening The game provided little drama ham (four) dominated the game. the second half with a 9-0 spurt that aside from the record-setting perfor-The Lady Aces made it 25-1 7 with put them ahead, 54-27. Evansvilk, a ._ mance of senior forward Mary Beth 8:35 left in the first half as Dykstra team that relies on outside shooting Schueth, who pulled down 12 and Brand-Adlard hit back-to-back for its points, was dearly in over its rebounds to raise her career total to jumpers. but that was as close as head. The Lady Aces shot just 35 per­752, breaking Shari Matvey's school they could get. cent in the second halfand never got record of 7 4 5. The biggest moment of the first closer than 20 points the rest of the 
The Irish were without the half came at the 7:40 mark when way. services of senior center Carrie Schueth pulled down her sixth Notre Dame, meanwhile, had one Bates,· as they will be for the rebound of the night to break Mat­of its best all-around games of the: remainder of the season. Bates left vey's record. There was little doubt season. lbe Irish shot a scorching the team last Thursday, citing per-that Schueth would break the mark 19-of-30 ( 63 percent) from the field sonal reasons. She was averaging Friday night, because the taller Irish in the first half, and hit 59 percent of 
12.5 points per game for Notre were dominant on the boards their shots for the game as they won Dame this season, and has scored throughout the contest. Notre Dame their second straight Iaugher against 1,060 points in her career. enjoyed an overall 47-24 advantag~:: an over-matched North Star op­
Bates' loss didn't appear to affect in the rebounding department. ponent. Last Wednesday Notre the Irish Friday night, as Notre Dame "They (Evansville) were a small Dame made short work of Butler in employed full-court pressure along team, but we were very aggressive in Indianapolis, winning by a 79-40 
·~~ 

~ -:«", ..._;. 0 with tenacious defense to put the going to the boards," said Schueth. "I score. APPhoto 
game away early. knew I needed six rebounds to "We've won the last two games by 
Trena Keys tied her career high break the record, but I wasn't think­such wide margins because we've with a 25-point effort, and the junior ing about it that much because I picked up the intensity of our play, forward/guard also grabbed 11 figured that if I didn't get six 
see WOMEN, page 14

rebounds. Sandy Botham added 16 rebounds I would have had a bad 
Sophomoreforward Treml Keys pumped in 2 5 pointsand bad 11 rebounds as Notre Dame trOU11ced Evansville, 74-53, Friday night at the ACC. Tbe win upped the Irish record to 10-7. Larry Burke profiles the contest at right. 










