
Theme parties -page 8 

VOL XX, NO. 34 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER I 0, 1985 


Possible Senate budget surplus remains unusable 
By MARK DILLON .servative estimate of 7,000 stu· "However, the figure quoted may Therefore, instead of the SI1,000 debating money that will not be .Senior .Staff Reporter dents enrolling multiplied by the be wrong." surplus being added to the senate received until February. 
$35 student activity fee. This year Neal could not be reached for budget, approximately S5,000 to 
"Unfortunately it's not a new The Student Senate will wait un­$2'56,000 was placed in our ac­comment. S6,000 will be added, Baumersaid. 
situation. It happens every year.
til February to decide what to do count," Parzianello said. 
Although the n 1,000 is in the The senate budget committee, Because ofthe turnover rate ofstu­with an approximately $1 1,000 "This year 7331 students were senate account it cannot yet be all­chaired by Parzlanello, was given dent government, we're all new so budget surplus because they do enrolled at Notre Dame," said Par­ocated, Parzianello said. "The we weren't sure of the policy,"
permission to allocate the S6,000not know how much of the money zianello, explaining the extra money must remain untouched budget surplus with. the approval Healy said. 
they will receive, according to Stu­money. " The 331-student dif­until the deadline for student of Vice President for Student Af­He added that the senate budgetdent Body Treasurer Eric Par­ference, multiplied by the activity withdrawal has passed sometime fairs Father David Tyson. debate of the money wasziandlo. fee, created an approximately 
in mid-February," he said. 
worthwhile. "I think it was fruitfulS11,000 surplus. This is the money Parzianello said the senate
According to Parzianello, each debate," Healy said. "We talkedThe Notre Dame administration the senate began to debate." 
budget committee has "decided to
student withdrawing before the about where the money will go
estimated two weeks ago that the The senate last week began walt until after the February
February deadline is refunded the and how It will be allocated."
senate would receive ap­debate on how to allocate this ad­withdrawal deadlline to allocate
S35 activity fee. This refund will
proximately S10,000 in extra ditional money in the budget. Joni the money. It makes good business Although Healy said the ultimate 
come out ofthe $11,000 surplus.
revenue from student activity fees Neal, director ofstudent activities, sense to wait until we know ex­decision rests with the senate 
Hijackers give up pirated cruise ship; 1 American killed 
A.!lllodated PreSII representatives of the PLO. They 
were taken to the Port Said Naval 
PORT SAID, Egypt · Palestinian Base and were still there seven hijackers of an Italian cruise ship hours later, at midnight local time or with as many as S I I people aboard 6p.m.EDT. surrendered yesterday, but the cap­"The hijackers, who number four, tain of the ship said the terrorists will leave Egypt," Foreign Minister killed one American passenger. · Esmat Abdel-Meguid said. "There 
One passenger "was thrown into were no demands." He did not say 
the sea apparently by the hijackers where the hijackers would go. and died," Prime Minister Bettino A top Egyptian official, who spoke Craxi told a news conference at his on condition of anonymity, said office In Palazzo Chigi in downtown three hours after the surrender that 
Rome. the travel arrangements of the 
pirates were in military hands "andCraxi identified the victim as Leon they may have left by now." He said Klinghoffer. In Cairo, passengers the PLO negotiator was Hani el­who got offthe ship said Klinghoffer, Hassan, a political adviser to chair­69, was from New York City and that man Yasser Arafat. EI-Hassan washe was accompanied by his wife visiting Egypt when the ship wasMarilyn. They said Klinghoffer suf­hijacked Monday night offPort Said.
fered a stroke earlier this year and The PLO denied involvement in was In a wheelchair on the ship. 
the hijacking and Arafat said in an in­Craxi said the ship's captain told terview yesterday with Frenchhim by radio the hijackers killed television from Tunis, Tunisia, thatleon Klinghoffer, 69, of New York the pirates were not PLO members.
City, and threw his body overboard. 
"They don't belong to the PLO. It Capt. Gerardo De Rosa said In a is clear and obvious.... We have noradio conversation with state-run information about them. But the mo-Italian television last night that a ter­ment the Egyptian authorities agreerorist who had blood on his clothing to hand over these persons to us weadmitted to the murder. The captain wiU investigate" and, if cir-spoke from the liner Achille Lauro, cumstances warrant, "we willwhich was about I 5 miles outside punish them."
Port Said, preparing to sail for Ash­The pirates claimed to be from thedod, Israel, at 2 a.m. ( 8 p.m. EDT) on Palestine Liberation Front, one ofthe voyage of8 to 12 hours. 
eight guerrilla groups in the PLO
When asked whether he could 
that split into three factions during aconfirm the kllling Craxi had I983 revolt against Arafat. 
reported De Rosa said, "Unfortunately, yes. How it hap­De Rosa said the four pirates took 
pened is difficult to explain in a few over the ship at .about 1:30 p.m. words. However, they told me, 'Now Monday, firing Soviet-made sub­we have kllled one.' machine guns and brandishing hand 
The captain said he was told ofthe grenades and other explosives. He murder at 3:05 p.m. Tuesday, the said they herded the passengers day after the pirates took control, onto a lower deck. while the Achille Lauro was outside One terrorist came onto the the Syrian port ofTartus on Tuesday. bridge, "first fired some shots into 
the ground screaming in Arabic and "They made me write it down and then told me to head to Tartus. 
told me to call Tartus," De Rosa said. 
The U.S. State Department late "I was continually guarded on the yesterday confirmed Klinghoffer bridge with submachine gun," he was killed, according to a spokes­said. "They hoped to find asylum in man for his family. Syria," he said, and when the Syrians 
The Italian Foreign Ministry said see HIJACK, page 4 
the terrorists surrendered to 
.~ 
~~~· 
<f~ 
fj 
~~·~' f 
Riotpolice block the road asfiremen put out tbe fire engulfing a Durban Corporation bus in tbe Clermont section oftbe Pinetown township yester-



South Africans have prayer rally; wary blacks stay home from work 
AII80Ciatcd Press Witnesses reported black youths sin ofapartheid" in a voluntary show 
attacked some workers as they of solidarity with victims of race 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa -returned home to black townships, segregation. Tens of thousands ofSouth Africans although organizers said they were Despite the absence of a formal of all races attended prayer services not seeking a general strike. work boycott, many thousands of yesterday to "repent for the national Townships that have been caught blacks stayed home rather than risk sin of apartheid," while blacks up in 14 months of bloody rioting confrontations with roving gangs around the country stayed home that left more than 750 people dead that sometimes confront workers from work in droves. appeared relatively calm during the returning home on "stayaway" days. 
Police headquarters in Pretoria nationwide display of support for In Soweto, the huge black said mobs killed two blacks early peaceful change in the national sys­township outside Johannesburg, 
yesterday in black townships tem of institutionalized racial army troops and police fired tear gas outside Port Elizabeth in eastern separation. to break up crowds of youths, wit­Cape Province. Both were victims of The "prayaway" was arranged last nesses said, and about 30 youths 
increasing black mob violence month by about 400 church leaders were arrested for allegedly setting against people who may be seen as from 48 Christian denominations up burning barricades on a main collaborators with the white who launched a National Initiative road and stoing cars and buses. government. Tires were placed for Reconciliation. Tutu, the 1984 A crowd of about 70 youths around their necks and they were Nobel Peace Prize winner, initially armed with rubber whips and stones doused with gasoline and burned to asked the group to endorse a week­chased commuters returning home death. long boycott of work to press for from work. One middle-aged man After telephoned bomb threats, race reforms, but the church group was cut by a stroke from a whip, a 
Anglican Bishop Desmond Tutu and decided instead on a single day of reporter who witnessed the inci­about 100 other worshipers prayer. dent said. An army patrol dispersed abandoned their prayers briefly in a The church group called on the youths. 
downtown Johannesburg cathedral, people to join services and "accept Tutu was praying silently with one of hundreds of church services their complicity in the apartheid sys­
see AFRICA, page 4conducted across the country. tem" and "to repent for the national 

IU'­
day in South Africa. Black youths in tbe area bar­ricaded the road, stoned tbe busandset itfree. Story below. 

based on the projected number of said at that time that the S1 0,000 Frederick Baumer ofthe Univer­actly how much we will be receiv­budget committee, he said he students expected to attend Notre did not exist. sity's General Accounting office hopes to be able to give more
ing." Dame. But Student Body President Bill said he was sure that one-halfofthe money to each of the classes "Each year the senate budgets Healy disagreed with Neal. "The 331 extra students would Healy said he was not upset by through joint events with student for S245,000 based on a con-money does exist," he said. withdraw from Notre Dame. the confusion or by the time spent government. 
The Observer Thursday, October 10, 1985 -page 2 

Of Interest 
Juggler is accepting submissions of 
poetry, short fiction, essays, black and white artwork and photog­raphy until tomorrow. Work can be submitted in room 309 O'Shaughnessy for publication in the fall 1985 edition of Juggler, Notre Dame's literary magazine. Any questions, contact Sean Rear­don ofthe English department at 283-2262.-The Obseroer 
The Debate and SpeechCouncil ofNotre Dame is hosting a debate with the national debate team ofthe Soviet Union. It begins at 7:30 tonight in the auditorium ofthe Centerfor Continuing Education. The resolution is: What are the responsibilities of the Soviet Union and the United States to assist economic and political stability and growth in developing countries? Admission is free. -The Obseroer 

"Richard III'' is the topic of a discussion and informal reading tonight from 7:30 to 8:30 in the New Orleans Room at LaFortune. The gathering is sponsored by the Notre Dame Shakespeare Club, and Robert Lordi, professor of Shakespeare, will attend. Refreshments will be served. -The Obseroer 
A Kick-offpartyfor the Senior "Make a Wish" Founda­tion will be held tonight at the Alumni-Senior Club, beginning at 9. Raftle tickets are being sold, available from dorm reps or at the party. 
-The Obseroer 
Urban Plunge applications are due by 3 p.m. 
tomorrow. Students who participate in the Urban Plunge ex­perience are exposed to conditions of poverty and injustice which increase awareness of what is being done to alleviate these problems. Applications can be obtained at the Center for Social Con­cerns and at the Office ofCampus Ministry. -The Obseroer 
Junior Parents' Weekend chairman ap­
plications are now available through the Office ofStudent Activities, first Ooor of Lafortune. Interested juniors should have completed applications returned by Thursday, October 17. Interviews will be scheduled for immediately after fall break.. The Obseroer 
A "Honeymooners" night featuring four 
episodes of the "Honeymooners" that have not been shown for 30 years and a 50s dance with a disc jockey will be held on Saturday night at Alumni-Senior Club. The event starts at 9 p.m. and will also feature free food and a 50s costume contest. The event, sponsored by the sophomore and junior classes and the Around the Comer Club, is open to all students. -The Obseroer 
Black and White Stag Night is the theme of a 
semi-formal dance this Saturday. Sponsored by the Black Cultural Arts Center, the International Students Organization and the Hispanic Student Organization, the dance will last from 9 to 2 at Stepan Center. Dates are optional. Tickets are $4 each, and will be on sale tonight in the dining halls from 5 to 6:30. They also can be purchased at the BCAC office in LaFortune; advance ticket purchase is recommended. -The Obseroer 
The Notre Dame Management Club is 
having a general meeting tonight at 7 in room 124 Hayes-Healy. The meeting is open to everyone. Upcoming events for the Management Club will be discussed. -The Obseroer 


Weather 
Shorts and shades weather today and tomorrow. Partly sunny and mild today. High in the mid 70s to 80s. Fair with the low in the mid 50s tonight. Mostly sunny and mild tomorrow. High in the upper 70s to low 80s.-AP 


The Observer 

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is 
published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. lbe 
Observer is published by the students of th<' llniversity of Notre Dam<' and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for 130 per y<:ar ( s:zo p.-r se· m<:st<'r) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notr<' Dame, Indiana 4M56. 
1bc Observer is a m<:mbcr of The As8oclakd Press. All reproduction rights ar<' reserved. 
Design Editor................. Mark McLaughlin 
Layout Staff................................ Dan Dutile 
Typesetters .................... B<:cky Gunderman 
Chuck Papandrea 
Slotman...............................Steve Haywood 
News Editor........................ Mary Heilmann 
Copy Editor................................ Miriam Hill 
Sports Copy Editor....................... Phil Wolf Viewpoint Copy Editor ........ Doug Hasler Viewpoint Layout................. Carol Brown Features Copy Editor................... Ed Nolan ND Day Editor...................Sharon Emmite SMC Day Editor................. MaryJean Sully Ad Design .................. Mary Carol Creadon 
Joan Wrappe 
Peter Georges Art Editor............................ Mark Weimholt Pbotographer ........................... Justin Smith 



Students must utilize every forutn to make their opinions known 
In the past few months I have spent as the assistant Viewpoint editor here at The Observer, it has been my job to read virtually every letter and column that has appeared on the Viewpoint pages. Although these opinions have been written by a large cross section of individuals on campus, many ofthe letters and columns reftec;t the same theme: frustration with the way the administration forces us to live at this University. 
In just the past few weeks, letters ffiled with com­plaints and observations about how the administration treat:> us like children and how that affects our lives have poured into the office. The main issue now is the Dillon tailgater; a few weeks earlier it was the memorial fountain; and, I am sure, a few weeks from now another pressing event will take precedence. 
The letters and columns have been fantastic. They have shown that a greater number of students now, more than ever, care about what is happening around them. General consensus has it that most have been well-written, forceful and have stated a valid point. But what ever comes ofthis? 
It is so frustrating day after day to see a myriad of well­intentioned people take the time to show concern for themselves and their com­munity by expressing an opinion publicly only to have nothing come of their action. Students are making their opinions known, but no one ever listens. 
It's time for someone to begin to listen to the stu­dents of this University. 

It is sad to say that stu­dent~ cannot point to anyone who can takt: their opinions directly to the ad­ministration. We, as students, have no one to represent us. Student government seems to have lost focus of the reason why they were elected. I do not knowwhether it is by choice or by some pressure from the administra­tion they choose to spend their time squabbling over petty issues that conc·ern only student government it­self, such as their budget and elections. Frankly, I don't care. In my mind, they now hold the status of a social events planning commission. 
Until student government is comprised ofa majority ofstudents who want to represent this student body not because it will look good on a resume or because it gives them a feeling of power, we will go on being un­heard. The job is ours. We, as the entire student body, can make a difference. If we cry out as a group to be heard and keep demanding some control over our lives, instead of getting tired and frustrated after a couple of weeks, someone will have to listen. 
Students are rightfully angry when they hear of stu-
Kevin Becker 
Assistant Viewpoint Editor 


dents at other universities who have input into the policy that controls their lives. It is ludicrous to even hope to dictate·policy at this University, but we should at least demand to know why policy is implemented and be able to offer our point ofview. We should not be treated capriciously. 
Maybe we are partly at fault because we do not listen when the administration tries to explain itself. We must compromise. They have to cooperate also, however. There can be no more ivory-tower decisions. It is atro­
cious that the administra­tion virtually ignores the input ofits students. 
More than enough times I have heard people telling ot­hers that if they do not lfk:e Notre Dame, they can "go somewhere else." That statement serves no con­structive purpose. Most of the people here never would leave simply because the students make this place fantastic. But we have an al· ready weak social life fur­ther limited by a plethora of rules and regulations, and the administration is almost tyrannical in disciplining us no matter where we go. Is it so wrong to feel frustrated 
about these situations? 

Ofcourse it isn't. It is wrong, however, ifwe live with the frustration and do nothing about it. We can do something by writing letters not only to The Observer, but to administrators, faculty members and, if the situa­tions calls for it, to alumni and parents. 
We can be heard. 

We can inftuence the image of this school, and the Dillon incident proves that the administration knows that. Let's use that inftuence so that the next time we say we love Notre Dame, we don't have to mean just the people. 
The Inside column allows Observer staff members to comment on recent campus, local or national events. The opinions expressed in the Inside column are those ofthe author, and not necessarily the opinions of The Observer Editorial Board. 



'The 5tldettt Acli.vHies Board 
pr-eSe~US 

DUSTl N Hc:::JF FtvlAN 
Prllllb.-dSUdes 
from lbesame roH 
Kodak MPfltm ... Eutmln Kodlk'l 
.,._..,mollon plctulo(,.P! 111m"""' adil*d lor ttiH Ulel" 35mm twnef8l by S.We FilrrtNorks. Enfoymicro-flne grain and rich co6or aaturlltion. Shc:IOC In lOw or brlghtllglli .....200ASA up10 1200ASA. GOI ...optionalpriniiO<_O<_, 
~the..,..roll 
.iNTRcioucroAvclFFER o AUSHmetwo20.•lq)OIUrerollolyo~ r -IAg~O!YIK ..Pfllm-~5247" (200ASA). Enc-lt$2.00.1'd11""10bo able 10 getcolor printl or l~(orbolh) from the same roll ollhil q~ity film. 
ADDRESS 
CITY STATE ZIP ..11110:-­:;,::~:m '1.?., ·l 
._............ UIIIIIJ-...--. 
-· 

The Observer Thursday, October 10, 1985 -page 3 




Plans for SMC florist continue to take root 

By HELENE GOUDEAU 
News Staff 
Things may be coming up roses at Saint Mary's if plans by faculty and students to re-open a florist on campus are successful. 
The florist shop was closed this year when the shop's owner and College officials decided the shop was not in the best interest of Saint Mary's, according to Saint Mary's Controller and Business Manager jason Lindower. 
Director of Student Activities Mary Anne O'Donnell, Assistant Professor ofbusiness and economics William Shannon and several of his students would like to see the busi­
lunch will be donated to the victims ofthe Mexican 


earthquake. 
USSR vs. 
I 
Resolved: 

What are the responsibilities of the USSR and the USA to assisting the eco­nomic and political stability developing nations.
I 
CCE Ruditarium 7:15pm Tani~ght Admissian frf 

Co-sponsored by ND Debate and Speech Council and League of Women Voters 

I 
USSR VII. ND 

PUBLIC AUCTION 
Low-Mileage 1984-86 Autos 
Saturday, October 12-10:00 AM 

4105 Lincolnway West 
1st Source Bank is hosttng an auto auction from National and Budget rental fleets at our Airport Branch Office. (See our ad. today's automotive tabloid.) 
MAKES AVAILABLE: 84's: Cadillac Sedan. Chevrole Cavalier. Ford Escorts & Tempos. Dodge Aries. Pontiac 6000 85's: Buick Skylark. Electra. Chevrolet Celebrity, Cavalier, Dodge Caravan. Ford Escorts. Lincoln Town Car. Oldsmobile Calais. Cieras. Cutlasses. Delta 88's, Pontiac 6000. Grand Prix. Toyota Tercells. Corollas. Volkswagen Golfs. Quantum. 86 
Buick Somerset 
NOTE: Most autos fully equipped, all carefully maintained. Each car has 24 months. 24.000 mile lim1ted warranty. Representatives available at sale. 
TERMS: Pre-approved financing from t st Source Bank, cash. bank letter of cred1l. Sellers reserve the right to accept or reject any or all bids. 
Auction Conducted by 
• Tetzlaff Auction Service Burt & Debbie Tetzlaff, AuctionHrs/219-291-4407 

ness re-opened. They are planning a project to determine the College's needs in this area but have not dis­closed a tentative date for the re­opening yet. 
In order for a florist to operate successfully at Saint Mary's, "There must be significant volume from the formal dances," Lindower said. Be­cause the students' desire to buy flowers varied with the number of dances, the business became un­stable, forcing its termination, Lin­dower said. 
He added that the boutonnieres purchased by Saint Mary's students for dances were less expensive than the corsages purchased at Notre Dame's Irish Garden and did not generate enough revenue to justify the shop's continuation. 
During the SYR and formal season, Lindower said, the shop's owner of­ten lacked the stock necessary to meet the students' needs. Llndower said the College thought the only al­ternative was to close the flower shop. 





Center for Spirituality at SMC will represent the roles of women 
By MARY FRIEL 
News Staff 
The Center for Spirituality at Saint Mary's College hopes some day to become synonymous with the words "women's leadership in the Church," according to Doris Don­nelly, co-director ofthe center. 
Women's leadership has become a hot topic in Church circles, Don­nelly said, citing the American bis­hops promise to attend to this issue and the Pope's claims that he wants women to be active and involved church members in ways fitting the 80s and beyond. 
The Center for Spirituality is taking steps to create a place where women can discuss topics of con­cern for women and men in the con­temporary church, Donnelly said. 
"What's missing from the scene," she said, "is a place where profes­sional Catholic women can get together and brainstorm, listen, plan. Because Saint Mary's never lost its identity as a Catholic women's in­stitution, it's the ideal place for such an ongoing forum." 
During the spring semester, the center is offering a "Booic of the Week Symposium" to be held on Wednesdays in Stapleton Lounge. The symposium will revolve around the theme of "Spiritual Roots." Twelve presenters have been invited to choose acurrent orclassic book written on or about a woman who influenced their spiritual jour­neys and to lead a discussion on their selection. 
Bishop john D'Arcy of the Fort Wayne-South Bend diocese is the guest on April 9. Delores Leckey, Ex­ecutive Secretary of the USCC Bis­hop's Committee on the Laity, will be present on March 19. 
On April 17, Sister Sandra Schneiders, professor of theology at the jesuit theologate in Berkeley, Calif., will deliver the second Madeleva lecture. Her topic will be "Women and the Word: Gender in the New Testament and the Spirituality ofWomen." 
Donnelly received her degrees from Manhattanville College, the University of Southern California and Claremont Graduate School. She taught at Princeton Theological Seminary and St. John's University before coming to Saint Mary's. 


Senate pushes for balanced budget 
WASHINGTON · The Senate, voicing bipartisan anxiety over an accumulated federal debt nearing 12 trillion, voted 75-24 yesterday to force the government to balance its annual budget in six years. 
The Senate then approved and sent to the House a measure to tem­porarily extend the government's borrowing power by $5 billion, a stopgap measure designed to keep the government's checks from bouncing for another week. 
House action on the stopgap measure was expected by day's end. The balanced-budget debate had stalled action in the Republican-led chamber for days on a debt limit ex­tension, exhausting the Treasury's supply ofcash. 
Encouraged by the developments, the Treasury Department an­nounced it would go ahead with an emergency auction to borrow $5 billion to keep the government afloat. 
The auction will provide the government with just enough money to get by for the next few days. 
Approval of the amendment, at the end of a six-day deadlock, cleared the way for action on a separate, short-term hike in the na­tional debt. The interim hike, which also must be approved by the House, would allow Congress to leave for its Columbus Day recess this weekend without threat of the government defaulting on its obligations. 
White House spokesman Larry Speakes said, "We are of course pleased with the margin; we applaud the vote as a step in the right direc­tion." 
"We look forward to final Senate action . . . including a permanent debt extension," Speakes said, ad­ding that the administration hoped for House action "as early as pos­sible" to get the measure to a House­Senate conference committee. 
Government spending would have to match receipts beginning in fiscal year 1991 and remain balanced from then on. The deficit for fiscal 1985, which ended Sept. 30, was about 1210 billion. 


Massachusetts raps public smoking 
Associated Press 
BOSTON-After a lengthy debate over public health and personal liberty, the Massachusetts House gave initial approval Tuesday to a far-reaching series of bans and restrictions on smoking in public. 
As the mingled smoke from cigarettes, pipes and cigars floated up to the domed ceiling of the House chamber, members endorsed the proposal on a roll call of 109-49, including many smokers in the majority. It requires another House vote before going to the Senate. 
"What we are trying to do in this bill is create a presumption of non­smoking in public places," Rep. Cile Hicks, one of the lead sponsors, said during debate. 
If enacted, the bill would create an outright, statewide ban on all tobacco smoking, including cigarettes, cigars and pipes, in elevators, food stores, mass transit, courtrooms and all government meetings. 
It would also ban smoking, except in designated areas, in courthouses, schools and colleges, museums, libraries, trains, airport terminals, hospital lobbies, bingo parlors and all public buildings, including the Statehouse but not the House cham­ber. 
In addition, the proposal would require special sections for smokers in restaurants with 75 or more seats; smaller restaurants would not be af. fected. 
Other provisions would require the state's colleges and universities to provide no-smoking rooms in dormitories and would create no­smoking sections in all nursing homes. 
Owners and managers of build­ings would be responsible for pos­ting appropriate signs, and victims of unauthorized smoking could com­plain in writing to local health of­ficers. An earlier version of the bill included civil fines for violations, but the redraft contained no penalties. 
Rep. Roger Goyette put down his cigar and led the opposition to the bans and restrictions. 
"A lot of people that smoke, smoke because it's a relaxation and, of course, it's a pleasure to them," Goyette said. 
-~ ----------­

The Observer Thursday, October 10, 1985 -page 4 
Blizzard dumps disaster on West 
Auoclated Preu 
A storm hurled as much as two 
feet of snow across nine states with 
peak winds of 81 mph, closing 
schools and making highways treac­
herot~s Tuesday. But for North 
Dakota grain farmers itwas just anot­
her bad day in a miserable month. 
"It's the same rainy, wet story that .has been told for the last six weeks," 
said Dan Dhuyvetter, Burke County 
agent in Bowbells, N.D. "There is a 
good 50 percent of the grain crop 
left unharvested. 
"We have a lot of standing grain 
and the weight of the snow is start­
ing to pull it down to the ground. 
Even if we do get some good weat­
her from now on, I thinkwe'll still be 
leaving quite a bit of crop in the 
fields." 
Travelers' advisories were posted 
in parts of Montana, Wyoming, 
Colorado and Minnesota as well as in North Dakota, where winds up to 35 mph were blowing the snow into drifts Tuesday afternoon. 
The storm, which dropped 25 inches of snow at Shonkin, Mont., and two feet at Mosquito Spring, Idaho, drifted south. Travelers' ad­visories were posted for northeast Nevada and the Lake Tahoe area. Gale warnings were in effect for the western Great Lakes and snow was falling Tuesday afternoon from the northern plains to the central Rockies. 
In northern Utah, where ac­cumulations reached ' 18 inches, roads were clearing Tuesday. The storm, which had peak wind gusts of 81 mph Monday at Rawlins, Wyo., also dusted parts of South Dakota, Oregon and Idaho with snow. 
In Colorado's mountains, skiers were out early at the Berthoud Pass resort to enjoy the fresh snow. 
Record low temperatures were reported in 16 cities from Eugene, Ore., to Montana, with Great Falls, Mont., posting a low of 12 degrees. That knocked 6 degrees off the record for the date set in 1966. 

Cut Bank, Mont., was the nation's ice box Tuesday at 8 degrees. 
In North Dakota, the harvest of spring wheat and durum wheat, al­ready 25 days behind schedule in some areas, was put off again as the storm dumped up to 14 inches of snow in North Dakota. 
"If we had a solid week of good weather we could go out and get it finished," said Robert Carver, direc­tor of the North Dakota Crop and livestock Reporting Service in Fargo. "It's hard to believe we can't do that." 
Snow accumulations ranged up to 14 inches in Sawyer, N.D., a town of 417 just south of Minot. Rain feU in southeastern North Dakota Tuesday morning. 

Hostage's relatives react to killing 
Auoclated Preu 
NEW YORK-A family celebrating the release yesterday of Americans held hostage aboard a hijacked cruise ship was stunned to hear a report that a relative had died during the ordeal. 
Reached at the Manhattan apart­ment of Leon and Marilyn Klinghof­fer, Jerry Arbittier, the couple's son-in-law, said he had not been told his father-in-law had been killed, as Italian Premier Bettino Craxi an­nounced. 
"Has this been confirmed? has it been confirmed?" he asked. He declined other comment, saying he 


Hijack 
continuedjrompage 1 
refused entry, "they told me to head towards libya." 
De Rosa had said by radio Tuesday evening that no one on the ship was injured. About a dozen Americans were aboard, and earlier uncon­firmed reports had said two were killed. 
Asked why the Palestinians sur­rendered, Craxi replied: "We aimed declined to be identified said the Reagan administration had not con­firmed the report but was in touch with the Italian and Egyptian, governments. 
wanted  to  check  with  the  State  
Department.  
A  white  House  official  who  

Only a half-hour earlier, Arbit­tier's wife, Lisa, told a news con­ference how relieved she was the hijacking was over. 
"When I first heard the news, it was an incredible feeling. I just held my breath and then I screamed, 'Let the party begin," said Mrs. Arbittier. 
"It feels like a giant anvil has been lifted offour chests," she added. Klinghoffer had suffered two 

s.trokes, was partially paralyzed and had to take medication for high blood pressure, Arbittier had said Tuesday. 
Before the report ofthe death, ot­her relatives expressed relief that the hostages were freed. 
"I just want to hug them and kiss them," said Gerry Revzin ofChicago of her sister and brother-in-law, Evelyn and Paul Weltman. 
The Weltmans' names had not been on an earlier list of Americans believed aboard. But Revzin said the State Department contacted one of the Weltmans' sons today to advise that the couple were on the ship and called again later to say they had been freed. 
~~--~--~~a.K~,M·~----~.a._.__... 
~.erman ~arb.ens 
.J'taturing: llannu anil tl}t lltailbtat.B 

FREE to all ND-SMC Students 
Beer Tent in Gardens  TONIGHT  
21 ID Required  9pm-lam 1 
$1 Entry SMC Northeast Field  I  


lill!®li-HID«:ai!({~)'MiMiMt,_~~~~a!IDillGDt'~ 
at weakening and isolating (them), r----------------------------­
first politically and then in actual  
fact.  Everyone  did  his part. Syria  
prevented the docking ofthe ship in  
its ports and forced it to find other  
moorings, which it did not find.  
"The  Palestine  liberation  Or­ 
ganization mobiliZed, and favored a  
positive solution. AU these actions  
put the hijackers in  a situation of  
weakness  and all  the paths  were  
closed except those ofsurrender."  
White  House  spokesman  Larry  
Speakes said President Reagan had  
dispatched  U.S.  Ambassador  Nic­ 
holas Veliotes from Cairo to  Port  
Said with orders to inspect the ves­ 
sel to determine whether one or more U.S. citizens had been killed.  \)] \o\Efl-,E.:  
Speakes several h said ours f that or wo after rd of th waiting e fate of  "• " · • " ""•t 0 f:,"\ :  

the passengers, Reagan's decision to L.!J••'-!.•..:.·~·=-·:...:•':.!'.!!"'------------------~~-----1 
send his own envoy was announced. 
Speakes said the United States "will do everything possible to see that those responsible" for hijacking 
the vessel  are  brought to  justice,  
regardless  of  the  arrangements  
Egypt made.  

Ofthe hijackers, he said, '"We do not know where they are." 



Africa 
continued/rom page 1 
about 100 other people at St. Mary's Anglican Cathedral in downtown johannesburg when police ordered the building evacuated because of a bomb threat. The prayers resumed after sniffer dogs found nothing and police declared the threat a hoax. 


EASY RIDER 
TO AND FROM CHICAGO'S O'HARE EVERY ZHOURS EVERY DAY 

United Limo 
'· 


MID • EASTERN VEGETARIAN 
•.,e....,,_.t lint Di.lww 
FOODS 
SHAWBUIA • lllUGBDERA • BABA GHENOUJ HOMMUS· FELAFEL TEBBOULI SAI.AD SOUTH BEND • LEBANESE STYLE 
• 
Pile SIIA/fed .s.Mooima G VROS 

• 
CH/iflot{ul Prutrie•• Tur~i./J Coffee 288-5639 


Tue• · Sat 5:30PM · 9:30PM 

cot!~'-Jf:f1.~'Zf1WR 838 Portage 

l 07.Discount for ND/SMC Students With this Coupon 
Students -Students -Students 
STUDENT FACULTY RELATIONS Student Government is now accepting applications for the 1985-1986 Student Faculty Relations Committee. 
Pick up applications in Student Government Office Thurs and Friday. BE A PART OF IT !H!! 


Anthropology Club Film Series presents 


a short film on the Yanomamo of Amazonia 


TONIGHT 
7:30 in Rm 202 Architecture Bldg. Refreshments following 



The Observer Thursday, October 10, 1985 -page 5 


Congress approves further Afghan aid 

As!lociated Press 
WASHINGTON Congress secretly has approved about $250 million in further covert military aid to rebels fighting the Soviet-backed regime in Afghanistan, Senate sources said yesterday. 
One source, who with the others asked not to be identified by name, said the money will be spent to buy large quantities of ammunition, small arms, grenade launchers, and anti-helicopter air defense weapons. 
"It will enable them to replenish their stocks," he said. "It's a one-time replenishment. There is nothing being introduced that is brand new or especially esoteric. It's the kind of thing easily available anywhere in the world." 
He said he could not confirm reports that the weapons may in­clude the British-made Blowpipe 
portable missile system, used by 
Britain during the 1982 Falklands 
War with Argentina. 
The issues of the long Soviet oc­cupation of Mghanistan, and covert aid by several nations to the Afghan resistance, are virtually certain to be raised in the summit meeting in Geneva next month between Presi­dent Reagan and Soviet leader Mik­hail Gorbachev. 
There was some annoyance in Congress over the latest aid request because the Reagan administration asked for the funds late last month, immediately before the end of the 1985 fiscal year, the source said. 
And he said there was some con­cern over the size ofthe request. 
"We're reaching a position where a lot of us think there should be more debate on this program," the source said. "There is a lot ofmoney Involved." 

Reagan answers USSR on weapon reductions 
As!lociated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Reagan ad­ministration, in a detailed response to Mikhail Gorbachev's arms control proposal, said Tuesday the Soviets have to drop their insistence on scuttling the U.S. "Star Wars" program for negotiations to succeed. 
"It's a precondition that must be dropped," a senior official said ofthe Soviet effort to stop research, testing and development ofanti-missile sys­tems to protect the United States and its allies. 
In a White House briefing for reporters, the official said the Soviet proposal was faulty on at least a half­dozen grounds, including a halt to new U.S. trident nuclear submarines, Midgetman intercontinental ballis­tic missiles and Stealth bombers. 
But, he said, "It is a proposal. It is a place to start." 
Specifically, he singled out two elements ofthe proposal the Soviets put on the negotiating table last week in Geneva, Switzerland. 
One would establish a ceiling of 1,250 nuclear delivery vehicles ­bombers and missiles that carry nuclear warheads. "That would be worthwhile," the official said, since the Soviets' current total is above 2,000. But he said that some details were still incomplete. 
The second promising overture, the official said, was the Soviets' "willingness" to set a ceiling of 6,000 nuclear "charges," or war­heads and other atomic explosives. "That would be positive," he said. 
The official, who demanded anonymity before . talking to reporters, said Reagan was setting no time limits on negotiations in or­der to try to produce an agreement that would make deep cuts in the ar· senals of the two powers. 
Basically, the Soviets have called for a '50 percent cut In nuclear missiles and warheads, but in ways the Reagan administration says would increase' Moscow's ability to launch a "first strike" against the United States. 
The White House distributed charts designed to show an over­whelming Soviet advantage In various aspects of the arms race and to support the U.S. argument that In some respects the proposal was un­fair. 
The U.S. missiles deployed in W es­tern Europe would be counted against the allowable American total of strategic weapons. To get under the celling, the administration would have to choose between scaling down U.S.-based Intercon­tinental ballistic missiles or strip­ping the NATO allies of their American nuclear umbrella, the offi­cial said 

Teen-age Soviet defector assumes U.S. citizenship 
As!lociated Press 
WASHINGTON-Soviet-born Wal­

ter Polovchak, who at age 12 refused 
to return to his homeland, severed 
all legal ties with Moscow Tuesday 
as he took the oath ofU.S. citizenship 
at a Capitol Hill ceremony. 
"I know a lot of people take their 

freedom for granted," Polovchak, 
now 18, told an audience of about 
200 well-wishers. 
"I don't and I never will," he con­tinued. "God bless America." 
His swearing-in culminated an un­usual five-year-long battle to stay in the United States despite his parents' decision to return to the Ukraine in 1980 after a brief taste of American life in Chicago. 
At the ceremony, Polovchak directed this message to his parents: "I wish you well and hope someday we can be together again. But It will have to be in the West because as long as I live, I'll never set foot in the Soviet Union." 
The ceremony and birthday reception for Polovchak, who turned 18 last week, were sponsored by Liberty Institute, a politically conservative group, along with several other organizations, in­cluding the Freedom Federation, a coalition of ethnic groups whose members have fled communist­dominated countries. 
Julian Kulas, the young man's at­torney, said that while Polovchak still resides in Chicago, he decided to hold oath-taking in Washington for several reasons. 
"And we thought it would be very apropos to do it here ... this being the nation's capital and Washington having been very helpful to us in these five years ofWalter's struggle," Kulas remarked. 
Kulas also said the groups organiz­ing the celebration had supported Polovchak's refusal to accompany his parents back to the Soviet Uk­raine and his subsequent legal wrangle. 
"We have had considerable moral support ... from these organizations during the past few years and they have shared Walter's concern about being able to remain In this country," Kulas said. 
.... 
View~_o_i_n__t__________ ....ay_,
Th_u_rsd o_ct-ob-er-10_,1-98-5--pa-ge---6 



Transfers now call Notre Dame campus home 
There is a minority on campus with whom I am proud to be associated. It is not related by race, creed, sex, or ethnic group. No, I am 
.speaking ofnone ofthese groups; I am talking about the transfers here at Notre Dame. 
JoanWrappe Talking loud and clear 
There are various reasons why transfers feel the need to go here, but the most frequently uttered response I have heard is that Notre Dame is their first and only choice, and they would settle for no less. I know ofone transfer who had applied two or three times before he was accepted. He certainly was determined and dedicated to get his goal. 
Being a transfer myself, I know how determined you must be. The years spent before entering into the school arl: much like the ones in high school. Aca1demics are top priority. Next, one must utiliize his available time to get involved. This is el[tremely impor­tant because those clubs and activities will help decide whether or not an :tpplicant is worthy of admission. It is tempting, however, to lose sight of the transfer goal if one becomes too involved. 
Having obtained my goal, I now perceive certain qualities transfers possess. The deter­mination they had as applicants turns to pride when they become students. I do not think they have more pride than the rest ofthe com­munity; however, I feel they express it more easily. I know offour transfer girls who sewed "Go Irish!" on their plaid pants ~or the Mic­higan game. It was their way of announcing their presence and expressing their joy of being here. 

After discussing the topic of transfers here at Notre Dame with some friends, aconcensus was reached that transfers on the whole are well-rounded individuals. They do not live in dorms. Rather, they are forced to live off­campus until housing is available. Because of this fact, transfers must take on respon­sibilities which are usually options. Besides the phone bill, they must be conscious of utility bills, food, and transportation to and from school daily. Transfers do not have the luxury of maid service or laundry service, eit­her. These added responsibilities make the tranfers more conscious of their being at Notre Dame and oftheir purpose in attending the school. 
Transfers appear to be a little more open-minded. Most Notre Dame students attended Catholic high schools. Notre Dame is one of the most reputable Catholic universities. It, too, teaches similiar morals and beliefs. Trans­fers have been exposed to different attitudes and beliefs than those stressed here. For in­stance, . many colleges and universities that transfers attended had co-ed dormatories. Be­cause they were exposed to both sexes in a different atmosphere, they are better able to communicate. All ofthese aspects allow trans­fers to be more individualized on the campus. 
I do not want to mislead the Notre Dame community to believe that I think transfers are better than any other student. I just view them as individuals who offer much to the Univer­sity, and I am thankful they are widely ac­cepted and appreciated. 
joan Wrappe is a junior in the College of Business Administration at Notre Dame and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 

The University has become institutionally false 
The whole race is a poet that writes down The eccentric propositions ofItsfate -Wallace Stevens 
These reflections are an attempt to come to terms with the deep separation existing bet­ween what I have learned to expect from this University and what it is, between what it preaches and what it actually stands for. Un­doubtedly, the religious parochialism of 
Edgardo Tenreiro guest column 
Notre Dame exalts its contradictions; hence, issues such as discrimination against women, obscure investment policies, rampant anti­trade-unionism, lack of internal democracy, failure to take students as serious mature sub­jects and subtle faculty extortion, become especially touchy. I would argue, though, that some ofthese traits are not particular to Notre Dame but are present in most institutions of higher education throughout the world. 
I believe that the cause of faculty and stu­dent resentment against the university (in the most general sense of the word, a body of in­stitutions} lies not at being consdous of the above contradictions. After all, some Americans resented military involvement in Vietnam, but they nevertheless ac:tively chal­lenged this foreign policy. Such il;; the nature of the democratic discourse. Morc:over, some members of this community ar•e sincerely committed to find out and improv4: when pos­sible Notre Dame's record of labor mistreat­ment and investment policic:s. This kind of resentment is positive.becauS<e it springs from a great conflict between different ethical con­ceptions which ultimately result iin a change of the status quo. The resentment I am refer­ring to is a deeper one. It evolves into a cynicism that borders on complete apathy, destructive criticism or even total solipsism. Its root is the feeling that intellectual effort in the University has become· institutionally false. 
What do I mean by institutionally false? The realization that I am part ofan impersonal and amoral machinery whose main ObJiective is to 

produce ideas to be sold in the commodity market. The University is a factory ofresearch, seminars, publications and intellectual debates that aims at minimizing costs and maximizing output to assure survival. We are all caught in a vicious circle: to produce alumni that will eventually finance the Univer­sity or to produce research that will increase its reputation. The winner survives and gets the chance to produce more. And then, I feel that the University is actively concerned with power and honor and not with knowledge and truth. That is why my intellectual effort is a fallacy: what am I promoting? What is more virtuous: power and honor, or knowledge and truth? I understand that it is the latter, but I realize that I am in a situation I cannot escape. 
And I resent it. 
If this is so, why do I keep studying? The experience, though institutionally false, is deeply rewarding. In interacting with faculty and other students who share the same con­cerns and doubts, in this fraternal dialogue, an answer that saves me from utter despair is un­veiled. Beyond market considerations, I realize the University's intellectual parapher­nalia is also a rigorously aesthetic urge to generate bodies of cathartic language, texts, fictions and propositional flora -be it religious, philosophical, artistic, or business and engineering like. I long for that secure feeling that results from creating my own proposition about life: the imagination labors, and I become the local hero ofmy philosophic system, my novel or poem, my computer program, my life. 
In this painful and (why not?) joyful space ­as when the tide is low and the sand is wet -in which truth plays hide-and-seek with me, I embrace with love my only alternative: to ges­ticulate with passion, idleness and beauty, the precarious objects of my contemplation. Then I feel euphoric to know that the vague terrain of language leaves me so much virgin space between myself and others, that I am able to freely exist within the tensions, am­biguities, boundaries and fallacies of the Uni­versity: the collective and eccentric proposition of our fate. 
Edgardo Tenreiro is a first-year graduate student atNotre Dame. 

Legalize euthanasia so those dying have a choice 
-
Mercy killing. These two words placed together automatically imply the controversy which is aroused when the issue ofeuthanasia comes up. Can the premeditated ending of human life ever be justified or considered merciful? So many stands exist on this ques­tion that it appears unanswerable, and yet it must be addressed. Should the law be allowed to limit a person's right to die with dignity? 
Lisa Perez 
in perspective 
The courts and doctors are consistently dis­cussing the right of critically ill patients to refuse medical treatment, but as of right now the law is against euthanasia. And why is that? People have the right to live life in any way 



Doonesbury 
they choose. According to the Constitution, people have the right to life, libe1rty and the pursuit of happiness. Do people not have the right to death when they can no longer live in bodies that are trapped and riddled with pain and disease? It is not a decision that can be made rashly, and euthanasia should not be considered unless there exists no realistic chance for recovery. Only afiter so:rious con­templation with a doctor about the future ef­fects of the illness should a patient conSider euthanasia. Life is precious and the taking ofit should not be haphazard or without serious contemplation. 
There often arises the comparison of eut­hanasia to the condo[)ing of suidde, but the two are incomparable. Suicide is usually an emotional outcry for help, and once that help is offered, the individual's mental health and attitude can improve. Mercy kiUing is dif­ferent. When a person has a totally degenerative disease such as Alzheimers or in­operable cancer where no cure is forthcom­ing, they, perhaps, might choose death over their painful lives. And it should be their choice to die with dignity -not the courts and not the doctors. The choice between life and death is too intensely personal to ever be decided by someone else. 

That also differentiates the reasoning bet­ween abortion and mercy killing. While both are taking a life, they cannot accurately be compared. A doctor cannot ask the unborn child to make the decision between its life and death; with euthanasia, the person making the final decision is the person who will be dying. The final choice with euthanasia remains (or ought to) with the person whose life is directly involved. 
Garry Trudeau 


There then might lie a solution to the eut­hanasia issue -it should legally be a choice made by the patient. Mercy killing should never be advocated as the sole solution to ill­ness but it should be permitted if the patient chooses it. A close and careful watch should be kept by the law and the doctors so that eut­hanasia does not become rampant or hap­hazard. But these people must not be the deciding force. The lawmakers have no com­prehension of the enormous pain and suffer­ing of the critically ill and should not force them to live their lives trapped in a cage of pain. Instead, euthanasia should be legalized so that it can be the choice of those who are critically ill. Dying with dignity should not be a crime. 
Lisa Perez is a sophomore Arts and Letters major and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 


Quote of the day 

"Look out the window from the breakfast table, and you see the bird after the worm, the cat after the bird and the dog after the cat. Itgives you a little better understanding ofthe morning's news." 
Bill Vaughan 
"NANA" 


---------------------------------------~­

"ie~P-~O~i~n~t~-------------------------------------------Th_u_r_sd_a_y_,o__ct_o_be_r_I_o_,_I9_s_s_-_P_ag_e__7 


Notre Dame should divest to help the oppressed 

For some time I have watched, with a sense of unease, the growth of a culture of boos­terism on the Notre Dame campus. In recent years It has takf"n on a more visceral quality. At 

Peter Walshe 
guest column 
football games boosterism has a place -the stadium Is Its natural ambience. When it Is In­stitutionalized in other areas ofthe University, however, Its dangers become apparent. It would be worrisome, for example, If we adopted this style to discuss the investment Issues at Notre Dame, specifically our hol­dings in corporations that do business in South Africa. 
Boosterism inhibits critical reflection. It is fun in an atmosphere of gamesmanship, but carried into academic or moral discourse it generates delusion, fantasy and a sense of un­reality. I cannot count the times I have heard top administrators refer to Notre Dame as the greatest Catholic university in the world ­indeed in all of history. Surely, If this is the case, it does not need proclaiming -least ofall by Notre Dame officials -and If this is not the case we sound plain silly to ourselves and to outsiders. 


The problem, in all likelihood, is a by­product ofRoman triumphalism. Having been raised in an atmosphere of Irish-Catholic tri­umphalism, I pick up the scent very quickly. I am sure that my father, a third order Dominican, had a hard time accepting the idea of salvation for those not of our faith. Then Vatican II came along and proceeded to dis­mantle the theological underpinnings of tri­umphalism. Sadly, poor old Vatican II has become unfashionable among many success­ful North American Catholics. What was a burst ofcreative, ecumenical energy has given way to reaction and fear of change. With the reassertion of hierarchy over collegiality, tri­umphalism has made its reappearance. 
One totally inappropriate place for this chest-beating celebration of ourselves, is the liturgical setting. On a number of occasions during past weeks we have been told what a fine, caring, super bunch ofpeople we all are, especially when we get together to pray at Mass. It appears that the scriptural passage about the pharisee and the publican (Luke 18: 9-14) has gone missing from Notre Dame Bibles! Then there are those court clerics in our midst who have Invented what my wife calls the sacrament ofextreme unctuousness. 
It is time to take stock and to begin to apply the brakes to this rampant blarney. Other dis­tinguished universities and colleges do not engage in such solipsistic nonsense. I have 


P.O. BoxQ 
relegate all negative criticism to recent his­tory; to the 1960s and the Vietnam War era or the 1970s and high inflation, the hostage crisis, the energy crisis ... as If there were no justification for criticism In the 1980s! Need we be reminded ofthe problems oftoday? Ap­parently, we do. 
Pettlfer, keep up the good work. 

janet Kehoe-Farina Notre Damegraduate student 
16,433 die a silent death and inhumane burial 
Dear Editor: 
As I was reading Monday's Chicago Tribune, I came across an article which brought a sickening feeling throughout my body. The article reported the mass burial of 16,433 human beings in six coffin-like boxes during a funeral service in East Los Angeles. 
This was not a headline article with big, bold letters proclaiming the disaster, nor did It appear at all on the front page. Rather, it received only a one paragraph blurb tucked away on page 12. 
I wondered how the editor could justify such disproportionallty. The reason, it ap­pears, is that these dead human beings were aborted fetuses. Does a fetus rate any less respect than that endowed in all human beings? 
It is very disheartening to live In a country which proclaims the inalienable rights of In­dividuals to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, and which then passes a Supreme Court decision allowing for the murder ofmil­lions of defenseless lives. Somehow, and at some time, this Insanity must stop. Reporting this tragedy as a mere item ofnews trivia Is not the answer. 
Gary Flanagan Notre Dame student 
ND moves in the right 


direction on apartheid 
Dear Editor: 
We were pleased with the recent decision of the University Trustees to appoint an Ad Hoc Committee on South African Invest­ments. Now that the Committee is about to repon to the full Board of Trustees, we look forward to a revised Notre Dame policy on South African investments, one that will be ethically defensible and effective in contribut­ing to the growing anti-apartheid movement across the country. 
There is much at stake in this issue for our Notre Dame community and we applaud the efforts that are being made to educate the campus, particularly during the observance of Anti-Apartheid Week, Oct. 7-11. We ask our colleagues and students to take "time out" to examine the ethical and political issues that the continued existence of apartheid raises, not least because the University has substan­tial funds Invested in corporations that con­tinue to operate within that system. 
Kathleen A. Btddtck joseph A. Butttgteg David F. Ruccto Lawrence H. Simon Charles K. Wilber Notre Damefaculty 


Dillon got kicked in the tailgater by Goldrick 
Dear Editor: 
Once again, I am chafed. Someone had to take fun two, maybe three steps too far. Having a tailgater at Ann Arbor, with kegs yet? Where is our decency, our decorum, our memory of the game? Everyone knows that kegs are forbidden on campus, and Michigan is a campus, mind you. Du Lac applies everywhere. 
You may have guessed by now that I am a Dillonite, a "scum of the earth" as that wretched little ditty goes. Admittedly I was in attendance at the we-got-kicked-in-the­tailgater. And unfortunately, I must confess I did partake in some of the pleasantries which went on in Ann Arbor. Where was my head? What was I thinking? What is the capital of North Dakota? It is with outrage how I look back upon my actions, those which I recall. My conscience has been all over me, worse than when I pulled that Tylenol thing awhile back. I thought lighting candles at the Grotto would help relieve the pressure of my guilt, and then look what happens. 
Fortunately, I attend Notre Dame, where justice is swift and sure. The administration recognized Dillon's hand in this out-of­control, fun event and moved quickly. "Let's take away Dillon's SYR and make them do qommunity service." The instrument has not Yilt been invented that can measure the hurt I felt when I heard the news about the canceled dance. I had already picked out my outfit for the evening, a nifty little ensemble, if I do say so myself. 
Alas, I guess it was not to be. It is probably all for the better anyway. I probably would have loaded up on warm beer and stale crack­ers and ended up treating my date like a piece ofmeat on a hook or worse, as an unequal. And that is regardless ofwhether she is a conniving little Saint Mary's husband hound or an am­bitious, worldly Notre Dame woman. There really is some good in everything, Toto. 
As for the community service, well, that is how offenders are punished in the real world, and we are just one step away from there. Or is that from reality? No matter. I thought Dillon's blatant disregard for the rules would end with the reign of Bernie "Czardo" Pelligrino but I see that I w~ mistaken. Current President John "Am I on TV's Practical Jokes, Bleeps, and Blunders, Mr. Goldrick?" Husmann has con· tinued this trend. It is disgusting. It is degrad' ing. It is the greatest. I just want the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community to know that there is one Dlllonite who is sorry for these uncalled for actions. And when I find him, I will tell you. 

Dean Sullivan Dillon Hall 


Pettifer's 'negativism' is backed as justified 
Dear Editor: 
In a recent letter to the editor, Ann Pettlfer was criticized for being too negativistic and was challenged to find something good to write about in future letters. This letter was in response to a series ofletters Pettifer has writ­ten to The Observer, on a variety of Issues. Perhaps I misread Pettifer's most recent letter. I did not interpret it as a personal attack on Janet Smith or Smith's work at the Women's Care Center. Rather, Pettifer seemed to be citing sexism, as the root cause of the problems that the center deals with. It is be­cause of sexism in our society, that such services are needed. As for having something good to say about sexism .... 
However, this particular letter appears to be criticizing criticism in general, which is a much more serious matter. It implies condonement of censorship in a subtle form: "If you don't have anything good to say, don't say anything." While this attitude may seem appropriate for certain social settings, it is cer­tainly not appropriate for the editorial page of a universty newspaper. 
Furthermore, this particular student (and I suspect a good many others) seems to find Pettlfer's "negativism" distasteful, even of­fensive. This should come as no surprise. Indeed, negative criticism itself seems old­fadhloned today. The prophets of today's "feel-good" philosophy are attempting to 
children who have attended places like 
Swarthmore, Oberlin and Earlham, so I have 
had opportunities to read their alumni 
magazines. The ethos on those campuses Is 
very different. Swarthmore, a small, Quaker 
school with a formidable reputation, Is 
modest in a way that the confidently distin­
guished Institution can afford to be. 
I said at the outset that I have an agenda for raising this matter ofboosterism. Notre Dame is wrestling with the South African investment issue once more. While our track record to date has been timid, our rhetoric has been thunderous. We have condemned apartheid yet at the same time we have refused a moral leadership role on divestment. Oberlin Col­lege in Ohio did not indulge in pantomimes of moral self-congratulation -it just divested its stock. 
At our last Commencement, Notre Dame gave the Rev. Beyers Naude, the courageous South African clergyman, an honorary degree. Naude was calling for divestment as far back as 1976. The presence ofthis prophetic Christian graced our campus last spring, it would be good for us If we would now heed his call to do our bit to end apartheid. Moral blarney and boosterism will not bring the white govern­ment in Pretoria to the negotiating table with legitimate black leaders. A threat to divest, coming from an influential university In the Christian tradition like Notre Dame, would help. 
Peter Walsbe is professor of government and the director ofAfrican Studies at Notre Dame. 
Editorial Board Operations Board 


The Observer~~· 

Edttor-in-Chief. .......................... Sarah E. Hamilton Busmess Manager~ ......... Dav1d Stephen1tdl
PO. Box 0. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 

Managmg Editor.............. . ..... Amy Stephan Controller.. Wilham J H1ghducheck News Editor ................................. Keith Harrison Jr Advert1smg Manager ~ J1m Hagan
The Observer 1s the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Un1vers1ty of 

News Ed1tor.... . . . ....................... Dan McCullough Systems Manager. Mark B Johnson 
Notre Dame duLac and Samt Mary·s College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol1c1es of the 

Samt Mary·s Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Production Manager .. John A. Mennell 
adm1mstrat1on of 811her 1nSt1tut1on. The news IS reported as accurately and objectively as pos­

Sports Edttor . . . .. JeH Blumb 
Sible Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opmion of a majonty of the Editorial Board~ Commen­Accent Editor . . . . .. ... . . . . .. . ~ ~ ~ ~Mary Healy ranes. letters and the InSide Column present the v1ews of their authors. Column space IS 

Vtewpomt Editor . . . . . . . ....... Joe Murphy 
ava1lable to all members of the commun1ty and the free express1on of varying opm1ons on 

Photography Editor........... .Peter C. Laches 
campus. through letters. IS encouraged. 

Copy Chief................ . .......... Frank Lipo Founded November 3,1966 


Accent 

Thursday, October 10, 1985-page 8 
Kawabonga! Why not throw a theme party? 
"Saturday Night Live" is another tilvorite,SheUi Canfield 
because people have all kinds offun being Doug and Wendy Whiner. You wouldn't
features writer 

believe ttJe things people will do to look like·T hink about it. What is your typical coneheads, either. And who hasn't been to a party? It amounts to is a bunch ofidiots MASH party? It's so uncomplicated. Everyone 
glued to a couple ofkegs, drunk and stupid has those mold-green cotton p.j. things, and if and telling gullible girls how they went they don't have those, it is a written rule that 
shark-hunting in the Great Barrier Reef with they have those hideous camotlage things. Of UncleJacques (really a reformed Hare course, you turn the channel to MASH, but it 
Krishna) and the Calypso, and that's the usually ends up as a long-playing video when 
reason for the artificial leg. someone turns on the tunes. 
Somebody inevitably blows chow in the 

sink, somebody passes out only to wake up The best theme party in the whole world? 
with one eyebrow shaved off and "MY Mine, naturally. It was about three weeks ago, 
MOTHER EATS KITTY UTTER" written and it wasn't even really intended to be a 
across his forehead in India ink, furniture gets theme party. It just sort ofended up that way. burned, windows get smashed, someone Nobody was asked to dress a certain way. It starts fights, and some poor girl is getting was just a celebration we had, because one of emotional because her one true love is the girls having the party with me just bought getting beautiful with her best friend. It's a a new bed. (Don't laugh. I had a bash once great big mess, and everyone has a great big just because I bought a new highlighter pen. headache the next day. 
Is that a theme party, or what?) We had those It's glorious. 
tacky pink plastic flamingoes everywhere, It also gets very old, ifyou go to enough of 
wearing mod sunglasses and paisley ties, and them. And it's very expensive. Most college 
those dumb sunflower things people put in students simply do not have the coins to their yards so the wind can blow them replace all the furniture and get the walls 
around... you know. We even had streamers­repainted. People drive home drunk, and Can you believe it? -everywhere, and a everyone is likely to make at least one enemy 
plastic wading pool right in the middle of the 
by the end ofthe night. hallway. Her old mattresses were set up at 
Who needs it? the base of the stairs, 16 steps worth, and old 
This revelation is probably what is respon­Salvation Army ironing boards. sible for the advent ofthe theme party. "WHAT?!", you say? Theme parties are very easy parties to attend. Everyone immediately has something in The matresses were our landing pad. We common, they are all dressed as foolishly as took the ironing boards, folded fiat, to the top you are. It also guarantees instant conversa­ofthe stairs, stood on them -backwards, two tion: "What are YOU supposed to be?" They at a time, and even on each other's shoulders can be really stupid and really fun. · and "surfed" all the way down the stairs at 
My own theme party days began when I about 200 mph untill we hit the mattresses. It was in high school. A bunch ofus had a was hilarous. One girl spraigned her ankle, I REDRUM party. Remember "The Shining?" still have scars on my wrist, and I think at Remember the little boy who went around least two other people are still comatose. with a bent finger and croaked, "Redrum. The girl who hurt her leg got into the Redddrummm. RED RUM!" So, we had a wading pool, and a bunch ofguys pushed her REDRUM party. Everyone wore red and a down the hill untill she fell over on her face. bunch ofdumb stufflike that. (I mean, you (And she's the one who bought the bed!) really don't want to hear it, OK?) It was People were jumping on the mattresses, and incredibly stupid. And a lot offun. the wading pool ended up on some guy's 
The kind ofpeople who are willing to go to head while a lot offools did a hat-dance theme parties are fun people. Dud people around him. All our flamingoes were stolen. might go, but they don't dress up or do whatever else is required. Hang them up and The next morning, ironing board legs, beat them like pinatas. (That's one way to although it still happens all the time. Frats OK, enough ofthe practical stuff. Have a sandwiches (? ), mattress stuffing, flamingo have fun.) It's a guaranteed good time. supply some ofthe best theme parties. For Casino Night. Everyone dresses their best legs, cups, pieces ofwading pool, and un­
In my sorority days in South Carolina, we example, one party was called "Boxers and (black tie, not black cords), plays games and known people were littered all over the had a huge riotous party every year, with a Button-downs." (So take a wild guess at what throws their money around. Naturally, building. I felt like a Flood Relief Volunteer band or two and a theme. It was, for reasons I everyone wore.) Things weren't always so people pay a nice cover for this -A LOT of cleaning up, but it was worth it. One guy told won't go into, called the "Tri Delta Brawl." preposterous, though. The previous year, the people. Because, at the end ofthe night, two a lady (his hairdresser) that he lived at Castle One year, the theme was "I Wish I Were..". theme was "Leather and Lace" (Do you think lucky campers get their name drawn, and Point, and she said, "I heard there was a really Obviously, you learn a lot about people from I'll get kicked out for this?) MlV was big one morning finds them heading for Las Vegas or wild party there. Everyone had these ironing this kind ofparty. You learn who wants to be year, mainly because it was so easy to dress Monte Carlo or wherever. Ifyou ever have boards..." a Skid Row bum, wants to work in a Bud for. Anyone can string earrings through their just one theme party, make Casino Night it. Maybe you had to be there. But, the point factory, who wishes they were an Oscar ears, braid their hair, and be Bob Marley. Want something quiet and a little more is, creativity -and sometimes sponteneity -is Meyer weiner (No lie.) It is potentially pretty The point is to utilize what you have and controlled? "Trivial Pursuit" and the old key. The fact that people acted as incredibly rank, but it's a blast. Another year, the theme be creative. Got a beach ?(So make one.) Monopoly boards are favorite stand-bys. I stupid, and had as much fun, as they wanted was "Saturday Morning Funnies, Friday Night Have an oyster roast. The day of the Ken­can't guarantee that they will always be calm. to was also a factor that made our party a Fun." Naturally, it was on a Friday night and tucky Derby? Dress in your best derby duds, I was once persued by a crazed Park Place success. Three rooms and the whole hallway everyone dressed as their favorite cartoon turn on the tube, get out the mint juleps, and purchaser, and the shock ofthe event left me (and staircase) were open, and something character: the Jetsons, Gumby and Pokey, you're there. In fact, you're better than there, comatose for a whole year.ln spite ofthe different was going on in each one. The etc. because I know for a fact that NOBODY who potential dangers, theme parties that involve theme party had been elevated to a whole 
Fraternities can get pretty creative, too. goes to a horse race e·ver actually sees a games are fool-proof, because everyone new height. Stupid? You bet. ~·m not talking about the usual toga action, horse. participates. And people are still laughing . 




Personals reveal personality of ND and SMC 
Chris DaUavo features writer  reading the personals, we all get to know whose birthday it is. Be honest, how many people have called some guy or girl they did not  People are always looking for rides in the Personals (even though they can't escape University aut­hority), lost rings (maybe they  Another common personal is a request by various clubs and or­ganizations to attend th~ir games and functions. These are a good way  
Upon entering the dining hall, preparing to do battle with the  be counted on. Someone seems to be infatuated with Richard Bach  know and said "Happy Birthday?"If you were drunk you are excused.  should give St. Anthony a try) and tickets, why don't these ads get put  to publicize their upcoming events, and are especially effective ifthey  
day's so-called lunch, most every  and his book "Illusions." Every day  Recently, some people have had a  under the Tickets section? I wonder  are done in a humorous manner.  
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­ we are all treated to a profound  fetish aboutJello. For some time  iftheir prayers are ever answered?  For instance, after the shooting ofa  
dent picks up a copy ofthe day's  quote from this man, which I know  now, there have been little  Maybe they should ask St. Jude?  field hockey player this fall, an ad  
Observer. After skipping over  everyone looks forward to.  references to someone who has a  Some people seem to think it is  appeared for one of their games  
reports ofthe latest national dis­ Then, for all ofthe heavy drinkers  fanta!>y about greenJello-sounds  amusing to put in personals written  which said, "Come see the most  
aster, the "Star Wars" peace talks,  around, the Oar House lets us know  inter,~sting.  in a foreign language. Very funny.  dangerous game in town." Not too  
and the latest exploits ofNancy  that they are open for carry outs  The personals are great for inside  These are the kind ofpeople who  many people showed up for the  
Reagan, he turns to the most inter­ until 3 am. And, as in every other  jokes, especially ifyou have a com­ do sick things to your cat. Do they  game, but maybe it was because  
esting part ofthe paper, the per­ paper in the United States, some­ ment about your friend's SYR date,  think that it is humorous to have  everyone was scared.  
sonals.  body is always thanking St. Jude for  or something along those lines.  something printed and have no one  Anyway, next time you have an  
granting some favor or prayer, or  They also present an opportunity  understand it? Apparently, it is  Observer, don't just put it on the  
The personals section is where  asking St. Anthony to help them find  for one to express his sense of  meant for that "someone special,"  bottom ofyour tray and spill  
students are free to print most  something that they lost.  humor. For example, "And on the  which is fine. However, it takes a lot  chicken gumbo soup on it. The  
anything they want, at a nominal  It is not surprising that in schools  eighth day, God called himself  more guts to say something in a  personals are a great place to go for  
cost.  the size ofNotre Dame and Saint  Franlt." and my personal favorite,  language that everyone under­ a laugh, or to thartk a friend for a  
There are some regulars in the  Mary's, there is ~t least one birthday  "HEY RICHARD CRANlUM!!!"  stands, and it is more meaningful as  "fun" weekend. By the way, did  
personal section which can always  every day. More importantly, by  Think about that last one.  well.  ODIN come yet?  

The Observer Thursday, October 10, 1985 -page 9 
Tht' Ohserr•er "iotre Damt· otfin·. lot atnl on tlu-thtrd floor of l.ahtrtum· ~tll<ll'nt ( .t'fllt·r. Jl<TP" tla"ifkd adn·rt"in~ from 1) JIll until I p 111 \londJ\ throu~h l·rida1 7ht' r Jhsert·er 'aint .\fan·, otl'it ,. lot Jled on tht· tlurd floor ot Haggar< .ollt-gt· <.enter. ant'P" <la"itlnh from 1.! .~11 p m until ~ p m. \I on <Ia\' though l·nda' lkadlml' for n<·xt da1 t·la"itkd' i' ~ p m All cla"iflt·d' mu't he prepaid. eithl'f in pt-r,on or In mail < hargt·" I11 <Tnt' IWr fi~t·< hara<


Classifieds 
I<'" er <Ia\' 


NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABlE 287-<4082 

TYPING CALl. CHN8 2:14-IWl' 
PRO-TYPE Over 15 y_.exp. Speouz· 
•ng'" atudenl ~.law pap... di-· tat lOili, rMUmee. 277·5833 
8TMT YOUII CMIIR NOW EARN MONEY AND WORK ON FORTUNE 1500 COMPANIES' MARKET· lNG PROGRAMS ON CAMPUS PART· TIME (FLEXIBLE) HOURS EACH WEEK WE GIVE REFERENCES. CALL 1-800. 24:He711 
PITI88URQH CLUB-FAll BREAK BUS $55/Roundlnp $40/0,..-y LEAVES: SAT OCT 188:00PM FROM: C.C.E.&HOI.. Y CR088(SMCl RETURNS: FRI OCT. 251:00 PM FROM. GREYHOUND TRERMINAL IN DOWNTOWN PITI SION-UPS......... THURS OCT 10 6:00 PM Linte ThMIWin LaFortune 
au..llona: caiA.J. 11844 
WOfiDPIIOCHaiNG 
"rn-4041 
Filii PICKUP & DI!UVIIIY 

HIIPPY lllrthdey BEENO II Maybe you need a hnte more DANCING 1n your hie 
Lel'l gel reely drunk and puke 11 up II aver Colleen Burne, Aher II. -·re )ual KOQI(Y COLLEGE KIDS and 11'a her 8­dey' Lave. M.B 

LOST/FOUND 

LOST dk blue beckpacll1n aouth di111ng holll/30 wound 5:50p.m cont-. Tl35 c*ulal 01. eyegleMee end C8M. pink h'9hloilhter. band mu11c, <*nnel r­and mouthpiece, begonrvng French textbook. h blue notebool<, two computer dlaca II aomeooe hM II~ col Sloan et45~ 01 bring to 838 P E No quMbona uiled 
LOST: a RED women·a )act<'" 1n the ~briery 01 1n Cuah1ng PLEASE!'! contact Robin at 14030 1ilound 
LDeT:IIrown .Mneponllecllpeck .._. dey nUe In Iouth Dtnl,. Hill. Cont81ne 
qy.,F_,..,.___ Ill ...._....I'd M -happy fliUPPY If you -.w NIUm -.no ...,-~­-.....c.ll KAIIIN .. za.42J8 My hour. 
LOST. ALRIGHT, I'VE HAD IT ON 9/24 MY BLUE BACK PACK WM STOlEN FROM THE SOUTH DININO HAll. I HAVE RUN THIS AD FORAWEEKANDI HAVE HAD NO LUCK. I AM REAllY PISSED' IT WM AN 01..0 THING, BUT I WANT IT BACK. MY ROOMMAT E'S MAROON JACKET WM IN THERE AND IF YOU DON'T OIVE ANYTHING ELSE 
BACK. PLEASE AT LEAST GIVE ME THE JACKET BACK. IF YOU HAVE IT, PLEASE SHOW SOME COMMON DECENCY AND CAll 3884 THANK YOU VERY, VERY MUCH I 
LOel'POCKET WAT CH·SILVER,NO CHAIN. LOST NEAR NSH ON SEPT 26 IF FOUND CALL BOB 234-5579 
LOST RING Sterling 11lller w/ turquoo.. alone on bird deelgn II found, pleue col 1255. 11'1 very amol, and hM _,~mental value! Loel Oct 4 
LDe'T: A NAVY IM.UIIIPOIIIT COAT IN FARlEY'S BASEMENT DURING SAT URDAY NIGHT'S SYR. I PICKED UP A NAVY BLUE SPORT COAT THAT I BELIEVED WAS MINE BECAUSE IT HAD A "IIPICIALTY CLOTHING, PIT· QeUMH PINNA." TAO INSIDE IT. I IIOUOHT MINE AT THE SAME STORE. MY COAT HA8 3 001..0 IIUTIONS ON THE CUFF AND IS FUU.Y LINED THE ONE I HAVE IS NOT FUU.Y LINED. IF I HAVE YOUR COAT OR YOU HAVE MINE, PLEASE CALL .KIAT 11011 
L08T: GRAY EDDIE BAUER BACK PACK WITH BLACK STRAPS AND SEVERAL IIOOI<S IN NORTH DININO HAll ON 10-<4. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 14115. 
.......................................... 

LOIIT: HEMATITE (OREY) and GOLD BEADED IIRACELETIII I e1ao loal the 119W'a eye ln«:eeetl PLEASE col STE;P­HANIE at 1327 II you have found either onell I WOULD BE ETERNAllY ORA T EFUL (II th8t len't good enough how­REWARD aound7). THANKSII 
HAVE YOU EVER LOST SOMETHING VERY SPECIAL TO YOU? II not, oen you IFNOlM how you would IMI II you foal 8 ~t lrom your boyfriend 01 girlfriend? PRETTY ROTIEN. HUH? Wol th8t '1 how I IMI r!Qht now beceuee I 1oa1 the GOLD BRACELET my boyfriend e-ve me. It IIIIOfTieW!lere on the road~ LeM8ne and Sonn PLEASE HELP ME FINO IT. II you do. col Judy 81 284-!5063. THANK· YOU Ill 
LOST: BLUE BACK PACK WITH MAROON TRIM, CONTAINS A JACKET AND A CHECK· BOOK (THE CHECKS ARE AllCANCELED) AND IS LABELED WITH AN AIRLINE TAG. CALL 3211 OR 3209 
LOST: THURS. OCT 3 WILSON 'SURE SHOT' SASKETIIALL AT THE ROCK. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 11212 
NOW I AM HCIGINGIIII WHOIVU DICIDID IIY DINIII JACKET-WITH THI TWO-TONIE, 8MAP8, & ZIPPU OFF ILIEVI!a. WM WOIIITH 1110111 TO THill THAN Ill-YOU AJtl WIIONQIITHAT JACKET 18 WOIIITH IIIOIU! TD Ill THAN ANYTHING­COULD YOU PLEMI! FIND IT IN YOUII HI!MT TO IIITUIIN IT TO 400 LYONa/112111111 
HEY: Do you like my JEAN JACKET? I know I DID. II by 80Cid8nl you took it lrom Flanner'e pll on Tu-y night, pl­''"um it. S$$$ R-llld offered 8nd no queet1ona ulled. Call 1177. THANKS.. 
DUPIRAT ELY HIKING -·FILA" 8ACK·PACK To whOIIVW it m.ly concern: On Tu-y, October 8, ~11 :45am & !2:15pm, my beck-pacll diup(>INred lrom the South Dining Hal. The he!ll WM a good one, apprOllimat ely $1500 In merch8ndl... but only worth one-qulllter of th8t to the p.,...... 
""' Contenta -•ol
periiO<l8l value: one TORTS book, pene, h'9h~ght...etc., but more 
•mPQI'Iandy my gluMe th8t I uM lo ­and read With •nd my whole 
_,... worth of notn 101 all my _,.... itappeera.l•m 
1n _,oua trouble Without my notn end giMMe. Who •••UJd Law School "'" ...y? Any infOimat•on IMding to the return of any of th... 811Jclae would be appt8Cl8t ed. Plealecol277.01112 01 llop by the Law School Ubrary 
Myt•me 


FOR RENT 
RENT A COlOR TV OR MICROWAVE OVEN. LOW RAT ES. COlOR CITY/COLLEGAT E RENTALS INC.. 25117661 
FEMALE ROOMMAT E NEEDED TO SHARE A VERY NICE TWO BEDROOM HOUSE IN MISHAWAKA-NON SMOKERS ONLY 258·4584. 
SHARE 38A HOME WITH 2 NONSMOK· lNG GR. STUDENTS. $130ft UTIL. 232· 
8327 
2·3 BORM HSE (CARPETED). $275/MO. CAll277·15690R 277·2364 

WANTED 
Need nde to Deyton any weekend Call Marl• 4174. 
RIDE NEEDED TO/FROM TERRE HAUTE FOR OCT .BREAK. WIU SHARE COSTS. MARIA· 5183 
RIDE NEEDED OR OFFERED TO U OF I FOR 2 OF US. LEAVE 10/11, RETURN t0/13. CALL 4083. 
I'M DESPERATE!!I RIDE NEEDED TO LAKE CHM.. LA FOR FAll BREAK. CAN LEAVE FRI. AFTERNOON. SHARE USUAL. CALL KERI X4072 ... QUICK! 
................................ 
GOING TO PITI THE 11 COMING BACK 
13. RIDERS NEEDED. CALL ELAINE 272·7245 
.......................... 
NEED RIDE TO NORTHERN N.J. FOR BREAK WIU. SHARE EXPENSES CAll FRANK 1502 
2 of ua ~~ to go to CINCY 1C)·tt We need either • ride 01 ridera ao pleue col Moe 81417311 inter..ted 
WANTED! Need • rid<l to Cleveland. L•vlng 10/t t, retuming 10/13. Willing to rent • car II needed. P'-col ll.t1111in 284·5220. 
NEED RIDE FOR 2 FROM BAl.TO./OC AREA TO NO IY NOON 10/21. HILPI c.ll Kevin 81 2041. 
PLEASE TAkE ME HOME 101 brMk to K-.11.(-on 1-80) 10/18 01 10/111.cal J8CII2073. 
Wllllted; ridera to •nd from St. Loula 101 brMI<. IJNvlng 10/17. cal Mike X 288· 4850 
Driver lor U·HMJI to Santa Cruz •t XIIIM 1111<. cal234·1127t. 
RIDE NEEDED to Mpla. One way 01 round trip. Would Nke to leave before ARMY end return bel01e USC. $S$ pravlded. cal M8rk now-3584 
NEEDRIDETOBUFFALOORNIAOARA FAllS AT BREAK. CAll LISE-283-26211 

FOR SALE 
1977 Oldl Cut Sup Brougham: 350 V-8; pa,pb,AIC. T • T opl,CruiN,Recent E.agle Sta, 100w Cullom Stereo. Sherpl Robert AT256-8346. 
F01 Sale: Student F'bal Tix. cal 272· 3832. 


TICKETS 
I HAVE 4 ARMY GA'S. CALL MARY AT 3357. 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR THE ARMY GAME. 
CALL SUE 284-5477. 
.................................... 
I NEED OM FOfl AJIIIY & U8C.272· 
DOl 
WIU PAY BIG BUCKS FOR 3 ARMY GA'S AND 2 LSU GA'S CAll STEVE AT 1733/1757 
NEED 2 ARMY GA'S. CALL JIM AT 1489. 
need 4 I!UIO wmy cd 2723491 (gae) 
NEEDED· USC GA'I. Wll P•Y top$! cal Al287·111116. 
I NEED 2 OR 3 USC GA'S CALL MIKE AT 1605 OR STOP BY 304 GRACE, THE DIVE!! 
I NEED 2 NAVY GA'S CAll MIKE AT 1605 
Need many USC GA til. WIN p8y big bucka1p-col28~3477. 
NEED 2 GA'S 101 USC GAME. CALL LAURA3839 
Need t USC GA 101 So. cal. Qed. WIN p8y good$. cal P'"e 81 23~. 
NIID PENN 8TAT E nXIII Wll tnlde 2 Navy GA'a F01 2 Penn State GA'a lfyou'veaotP.,n8181•Ux, .... I.Mry .. 2082 
NEED TIX FOR MISS. GAME! WIU PAY TOP DOLLAR! REAllY'!! CALL MARY AT 1323 IF YOU'RE WIUING TO NEGOTIAT E!1 
HELP Ill MILLIONAIRE RECLUSE NEEDS 3 GAS AND 2 STUDENT TIX TO ARMY WILL PAY $S$ CAll BILL EVE AND MORNINGS 28862116 
HIYI WIU TRADE 2 ARMY, NAVY, MISSIS· SIPPI, ORLSUG.... FOR uac atu-or OM 234-7412 JIIIEIIY Oft JOHN O.K. 
NEED 2 11181118111PPI nX.... llob at 1111111. 
NEED TWO USC TICKETS REAL BAD! X3457 
HEAR YE! Uttle Siater coming up lora 
OlE MISS! The -hM ne'er ....,., NOTRE DAME h-•81 home! Qodlee of CMh involved, Wile lake GA 01STUD Tixl PLEEEEZE HELP! Cele 3457. 
Need 3 USC G..... WIA P8Y •ny rMIIO<lllble prioe. cal Chril t 8118 
NEED USC GA TIXS WIU PAY WEU CALL 284·54114 
BOSTON COMERS LOQI(INQ FOR USC TICKETS. WIUING TO PAY S$$. CALL HELEN 277-<4324 EVENINGS 6:00-11:00 
NEED USC TIX WIUINO TO PAY BIO S$$ RALPH 277.0177 
NEED 2 USC GA TIX HAVE 2 STUDENT TIX FOR All OTHER GAMES TO TRADE AND S$$$ CAll RED t 5116 
HAVE 2 STUD TIX FOR All GAMES CALL RED 15116 
MOM AND DAD FLYINO OUT FROM LA FOR USC GAME. IrS THEIR FIRST AND ONLY NO FOOTBALL GAME! I NEED 2 GA'S FOR THEM. AM WIUINO TO TRADE 2 ARMY GA'S OR PAY CASH. PLEASE CALL GARY AT 1776. THANKS I 
WANTED: (2) GA USC TIX-BIU (6tn746-6700 
BOSTON COMERS LOOI<INO FOR USC TICKETS. WILLING TO PAY $$$. CALL HELEN 277-4324 EVENINGS 6:00.11:00 
I'm paying $300 to fty my Wnte aiater up tromT...,_, Florida to-theArmy e-me. but ahe _,.,h•v• • ticket. Now 
that I've blown th•t much, I might •­l(>end aome more. Sell me ., Army GA and find out )ult how much more. II wil be wol WOI1h your trouble. I prom;... cal •tal8tehour. 
NEED 2 USC GA'S. CALL CHRIS AT 14611. 

LOYAL FANS FROM IOWA NEED LOTS OF GA'S FOR USC AND LSU. EVEN AN NO GAME WOULD BE MORE EXCITING THAN THE OPPRESSED FARM ECONOMY. PLEASE CALL MAT T 11076. 
NIID U8C nCKI!T81 WIN appreciate your Help cal Stephen at 11169 
HI!LPII NEED ONE AJIIIY QA Fott IIY DAD. WIU. PAY IIQ IUCK8. CALl. fl0e2101 
HELP! HELP! NEED 1 ARMY GA'S! WIU PAY BIG BUCKS! CAll TED AT 4073 ORBOBAT2199! 
PLIMIII MY FOlKS WILL BE HERE FOR USC; THEY HAVEN'T SEEN A GAME YET. I'M A SR. & THEIR YOUNGEST CHILO. I'D BE IN· CREDIBLY GRATEFUL IF YOU WOULD SEU ME 2 GA'S. NAME YOUR PRICE·I AM DESPERATE. THANKS. CAll RICK AT 1750. 
I need 3 Army Student Tix and 4 USC GA'a 01 Student Tix. WiH pay lop $, call 1644·08n 
I need 4 Army & 4 USC GA'a col Mike 
3096 

AJIIIY OM FOfi8ALE.W·1411 
I need two NAVY GA'I. Name your price. PIMN col Bob at 283·1 143. 
NEED 2-4 USC TIX GA OR STUD KAT HLEEN 277·1464 
NEED TWO GA'S FOR ARMY. CALL SMC4180. 
FOfiULE 2 ARMY GAME TIX, AND 2 USC TIX. CALL ADRIENNE OR ROSIN; 3808 PRICE NEGOTIABLE! 
DESPERATELY SEEKING 4 Army G8'1. WIN pay top$$$. Call JNnne at 2750. 
C>Hp.-.1 ely need J 1118v)' GA'• ASAP Andy 1582 
SEWNG 4 USC TICKETS. Beat offer. MIKE33BO 
NEED MANY USC GA'a 01 STUD. RICK 288·5418 $S$ 
CALIFORNIA LAWYER NEEDS 4 O.A. TICKETS TO USC. ANY PRICE 283­3187 
USC TIX FOR SALE 4 TOGETHER 40.50 YO CALL PETE 317 · 792-4609 
I NEED USC TIX. CAll BRIAN AT 2837. 
FOR SALE: 4 ARMY G.A.'S. BEST OF· FER CAll MARYANN277·3923 
;ii'E'voo..oA:r·iii:~ss?·i:t;i·oesP.eR'Ar 
E! I NEED 4 ARMY GA'S, WIU TRADE 0000 TIME WITH MISS CALIFORNIA OR BIG BUCKS FOR TIXII CAU JIU X2904 
l>eeper•t ely need 5 GA 101 Navy 01 MiN. e-me. Money no object. cal Kevin 211,3. 
I need 4 OA'a 101 ND-USC WiN IICCIPI 2 .... ol2 cd Kathy., 1124 
...................... TAkE ADVANTAGE OF ME!! I have two ARMY GM. They 8re you,. !01 two USC GA8 01 Cllah. cal Steve •• 1204. HuiTy bel01el Wi..upII 

PERSONALS 
.... ......... ....... Your conacience/a the m...u,. of the hooeaty of your ee/1/ahn-. 
Llat"" to II cwefully. 

OAR HOUSE: COlD BEER I LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N., 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
Help u• •void the BNntown blun. Give ua • ride to Boeton 01 vicinity 101 October brMk. cal Marl• 4174. 
SENIORS FOR 11186-67, CONSIDER WORK WITH HOlY CROSS ASSOCIAT ES PROGRAM IN CHILE. APPLICAT ION DEADLINE NOV. 7. CALL MARY ANN ROEMER 711411. . 
SENIORS! SENIORS! SENIORS! HOI..Y CROSS ASSOCIATE: A CHANCE TO LEARN, TO OIVE, TO GROW AND TO LOVE. FOR INFO CALL 2311-5521 OR 23~ 711411. 
BED 'N BREAII.FMT. FOOTBAll WEEKENDS, NO & SMC PARENTS. TWO NITE MINIMUM. 10 MINS. FROM CAMPUS. CALL 211HI152. 
SMC.ND SUMMER TRAVEL:LONDON PROGRAM MAY 21-JUNE 20 WITH TRAVEL IN IRE, SCOT,& FRANCE; COURSES IN IIIO,BUS,HIST,MUSIC,SOCI,AND 
THEATRE.ROMEPROGRAMJUNEt~ JULY 14 WITH TRAVEL IN FRANCE.GEfi,SW!Tj!,l ITALY; COURSES IN IIUS.HIST,AND ITALIAN. MTO ON OCT 14 ATCARROI..l HALL(SMC) AT 7:00 PM. FOR INFO CALL PROF A.A. BLACK 284-4460 OR 
272·3728. 

candy: II YOU ahow up at the O.Y.B.O.In La Fortune thia Saturday, I gu••nt.. you'l Hve (or not Nve) to regret Ill Biff 
Jim K. ThMka 101 II the help With Bio. Mary 
BRIDGET'S BARGAINS: Good during 811 open hou,. on apecilled deya. MON I TUES • $.60 ORAFTS...WED • $.75 ROOT BEER SHOTS ... THURS ·$1.00 MOI..SONS...FRI • 1.75 WATERMELON SHOTS ... $.35 HOT MUNCHIES DAILY. 
2 DAYS 'TIL HONIYIIOONIRa TIMEI 11 hiiPpene 81 the Alumni Seni01 Club Saturday, Oct 12,818:30 p.m. 

NEED 2 AJIIIY O.A.'S. IF YOU CAN HELP, CALL 3433 AND ASK FOR MELISSA. 
Yea, I 8dmit it, I w•nt to go toN-J.-ey 101 Oct-brMk. And yM. I edmil it I w8nt to be here 101 the Army and USC e-mn. Finally,! h•veto8dmilth8tl need 
• ride to the Garden Stat e. Wll P•r the UIIUal. PIMN cd34110 II you can offer me arid<l. 
POW' RIGHT IN THE KISSER! 
HELP!!! S$$ NEED 2 USC STU TICK· ETS!!I CALL DAVE 3526 
LDe'T: ONE ROOMMATE. Slaw town Sunday night. Laat -n•t The ObMrver office? Male, 5' 11 ,"dark hllir. Anew.-to "MIII'k.'' II you h8ve •ny lnlo, col 1373. 
WE HAVE YOUR ROOMMAT E. He 
.,._.. to Mlll'k Mc-aomething-or-other. 
Oive ue the Sony and the Meclntoah, 01 
we'l aend him back. 
FOR SALE: llled, -k. wardrobe, Macln· toah, and Sony. 
FLY FROM D.C.(NAT 'L) TO SOUTH BEND FOR ONLY SilO FOR USC GAME.ARRIVE FRI 9 AM CALL JOHN 1088 
Lone 1.-nd Club lue the only bua to Long lUnd il IMving FRIDAY Oct. 18 going to HempltMd bua terminal, and It Wil rlltum to N.D. Sunday Oct. 27. Round tnp ia $76.00 One w•y trip ie $45.00 Cd Pille 01 P8ul at X2448 l01lnlo and r-· vatiCMW. 
81NIOfl CLAM OKTOIIEIIFUT CELEUAT ION FRIDAY OCT.11 6PM· 2AM AT THE ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB. COME EARLY FOR DIN· NER,AUTHENTIC FOOD,ORINK AND MUSIC.INVITED GUESTS IN· CLUDE:Tommy Laaorde,08vid Letter· man,Rontlld RMQ8n,0Mny Domer, P•ul Newman,Jene Bol8nd,Rodney D•nger· lield,Q;ck Naugle,Roblert Bligh,Sh...y Long,Tim McDowoi,P•t Seiltck.VMne White, Michul Jeckaon.Anna El­kaon,Fnanll Sinet ra,Margeret Th•t cher,the .South Dakota Club PrMI· dent,Meryt Slreep,T... 101 F..,.,cat herine Dxenbulll Miuy Sommer,Sh•vy & Tavy,Serah E. H•mihon,Tha Pope. 
All MY "SISTERS" ... ANDREA: ICE CREAM • WHERE?I WICK: HOW WM "IT" FRIDAY?! CORA: DO YOU STIU DROOl? PAM: YOUR 0000 LUCK STREAK IS APPROACHING' CORC: CALM DOWN! TWO DAYS TO GO. GET IT! 
HELPI NEED 2 NAVY GA'SI CAll ALISON 21180 
YM, the Field Hockey Oocldeee, JANET BUDNICK, hM finally turned 18. Happy Birthday, SPUD! Love the Tti·Phi'a. 
HEUO MY NAME IS R08BY KILL. WOULD YOU LIKE TO TRY OUR NEW MC DLT FEAT URING TOMAT 0, LETTUCE AND MAYONAISE. 
!!!HAPPY BIRTHDAY SISIII The 
Goody-Blimp -booked ao you'l h•v• to be content With thla. Have • grMt 20th! Lave v•. Jerry 
BEINOTHERE 
7:00 and 11:30 tonight 
annenberg •uditotium, anita muiMUm $1.50 
• profound •nd humoroua commentary on the elf-ol televiaion In our aoc:iety. one ol P'"• ....,.a grNt eat tllme. 
aponeored by the lltudient Nalaon commit· IHol the anile muaeum 
THE LAW CARAVAN 18 COlliNG w.cl., Oct. 11, frollt 11 Mn to I pm, 81 theatepenc.nt8r 100 L8w 8chool Repe. wtl ... on h8nd 
tor 01--~elntonMI meea,.. 
ALL 8TUDIJIT8 AJtiiiMTUI 
HEY JOE-WHAT HAPPENED TO YOUR DOT? 
II you took my JEANS out of the BADIN MENS LAUNDROMAT , 1'1 buy them beck. col X 1041. No ?'a uiled. 
To the11n011ymoua--of giiUt-Th811k youl And how did you know th81 Butter· Rum -my lavotite 111lv01?? W1l I be llbletoMk you thlaln peqon?l hopeao... 
LISA, 143 FOREVER AND EVER AND EVER ... YOU'RE THE BEST -LOVE PHIL Keenan 4-N Roomm.~t .. of the w­MURPHCAT "1here'a nothing wrong With being 8 aquid" and VINCE "R8t I n Rol" 
8A8LAN 
THANKS SAINT JUDE 
~,. Ia money ... inlorm•rion /a money .. documenlllllon 11 evwylhlr!fl ... thwe 18 no aube~ture lorpl8nnlr!f1 
So. how ia the clot aitu•t lon? 
............................. 
NO CREW WOMEN· Congr.t 1 on getting In the Heed. Now, row-OR BUNT AI 
. time II money . . mform.t ion ie money documenllll ionIa evwylhlr!fl thwe il no aube~rure for p/8nmr!f1 . 
................................................. So, how il the ··dol aitu•t ion?" 
·~.'Silk flo-a may not die, but they never grow.' " Su11e Solomonlk aomewhwe on Rueh St. 
CHESTER. 
Wh•t ere you doong th1a Thu.-y n!Qht? 
Kahlu• cole' ANNE 
YO GARY, HAPPY 6-0AY. THIS BUD'S FOR YOU. WAT CH YOUR LIP8­MANUTE, RAT T, WOOD, CAPS, TIM, STEVE, KOHL, GEORGE, MIKE, AND AL K. HAll-UNDER A BLOOD RED SKY. 
To G ( ol B. 8nd G. ), HAPPY 
IIIITHDAYI Lave, the M. E.'l ( Thi1 ie no,.,,· you know ua, we didn't know you.) 
WHIN 18 DAVI 8TEPHINITCH'I IIIITHDAY? 
To the Quotable Ron Mllab: candle1IOd WiahM you 8 "piNChy" 8-deyl 
There he WM ..iloalng hia !Nth like • b8nchJ... ~ 
RIDE OESPERAT ELY NEEDED TO NEW YORK CITY AREA! Need nde to NYC 101111 brMk.Can IMve Thu,.. 811er· noon.Wil ahere exp..,.... cal Jim 11160.P'-help me In my hour of need!! 
Hey S.P .A.L! YOU ARE how al your del ea paea out on you II Happy t 8th tr01n the lr8mfll' In P.E. 
.................... HAPPY BIRTHDAY ELAINE Z AND NESTER I LOVE, THE GANG 
WARNING TO All SMC GIRLS' The Holy Croee guya at SMC Nbrary we from the Jr. ca., not the hll •• N.D.-Domtn 
•e morelunl 
HAPPY 18th ALISA HARDY! LOVE ANN,JEAN,LISA,MOIRA & MOLLY 
YES, IT'S TRUE ALISA HARDY IS 19 TODAY. QIVE HER A CALL.. 26440~ YOU MAY EVEN SEE HER AT THE BARS!!! 
............................... 
HAPPY tilTH ALISAIIII 
DESPERA T ELY NEED A BASYSITIER FOR FRIDAY NIGHT!! Joae never en.. and ia wo1 beh8ved' Wll pay SS$' PLEASE CALl MARY AT 284-44311. 
WMt to go on • tethered blloon ndia? Come thla Set urdey to the field~ the dining hoi and the library •t Saint Mwy'a. JOin the -otllducet 1on coun­ciiiOI a net ural high. Bring 11.00 on Set urdlly lrom 4:00 to 6:00. WHI her perrnil· hng. 
Hi TCI Letl go to H-HIIUI thil WNkendll I Love You Sueiel 
11'1 Colleen'a Birthday I know: She Ia the -aheNkMII! 
WATCH OUT! Cohen'a eleeplng on the Hnoteum tonight! No pillow, No all-. Juat BHno In her 8-dey IIUitl 
............................. 
Congrata Prtnoe J8Cil· you atudl Hope HC 
week/WNkend -lunll 
I -thinking 8bout you II 
Lavey•. Kate 
...................... 
Whitey, C.n't w811 to-you In D.C.· Gilt rtd of the mlrrora but S.ve aome hot -1! Love. Katie 
HEY, Fat her 0-ve Do you know Rloh Gund S.. you up 101 the SYR? your dat • 
"Deer"M8rk Ry811, get r.-ly lor • wild ~of chlpmunka, tat-· .teak, drinking, and chicken aoup at llled'al your 
"~"criiW 
Good luck to a1 Nlilora thia ~ 
where ever the W!nd -you Have aome T·E·D 8nd get aome bulelall.uv, <*Voua breakdown crew! 
roe c.-Gift: I KNOW YOU'III IIIAIIING TH._ THANK YOU FOfi8AT UIIOAY NIGHTI 
lilAYM AGAIN? D. 




-
Sports Briefs 
The ND Rowing Club will be meeting tomorrow at 1 0 p.m. at the Slush Club. All members are required to attend and bring checkbooks. -The Observer 
In NVA cross-country yesterday, Howard's Chris Ryan ran the two-and-a-half-mile course in 13:27, which was good enough for first place. Flanner's Dan Whiteside was second in 13:30, and Matt Laboe ofSorin was third in 13:33. Grace Hall's three teams finished first, fourth and seventh in the seven-team field. Morrissey finished second, Stanford was third, Howard was fifth and Flanner was sixth. -The Observer 
Prospective ND basketballwalk-onswill 
try out for the men's team on Tuesday from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. Anyone who is interested should report to the ACC auxiliary gym ready to play at 7:45p.m. on that day. Call Coach Kilcullen in the basketball office ( 2 39-5 3 3 7) for more information. -The Observer 
Prospective ND women's basketball 
walk-ons will try out for the team on Wednesday from 8:30p.m. to 1op.m. Anyone who is interested should report to the ACC auxiliary gym ready to play on that day.-The Observer 
The ND junior class softball festival has been res­cheduled for tomorrow at 4 p.m. on White Field. All juniors are invited to attend and cheer on their classmates. The food should be pretty good, too. -The Observer 
Open co-ree volleyball games will be played every Wednesday night from 9 p.m. to 10:45 p.m. in the Angela Ath­letic Facility. -The Observer 
Flag Football officials are needed at Saint Mary's. Call 284-5548 for information.-The Observer 
Aerobics teachers are needed at Saint Mary's. Call 284-5548 for information.-The Observer 
More NVA information is available by calling 239­61 00 or by stopping by the NVA office in the ACC. -The Observer 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor ofLafortune. Briefs should be submitted on the forms available at the office, and every briefmust include the phone number ofthe person submitting it. -The Observer 
CANCER. 
NOT 
KNOWING 
THE RISKS 
ISYOUR 
GREATEST 


RISK. 

Isupport the Please 
AMERICAN 

CRCANCER 

fSOCIETY~ 

·• ..... NODE DillE/SAINT MAlTS THEATRE 

EXPLORE A NEW 
~...._ 


HORIZON...

~ \:::\ presents IAPPLICATIONS AVAILABLE I FROM SEPT. 30-0CT. II 
---
End of the World 


AT N.D.: AT S.M.C.=



by Arthur Kopit 
-Center for Social Concerns -Office of JuStice Education ~niversity-"Ministry -Campus "Ministry -Hall "Repr~tativos -Hall "Rep~ntativos
Oct.10,11,12;17,18,19 WASHINGTON HALL 


Deadline: Oct.11, 3pm 
Ushers are needed for all performances. Sign-up in 320 O'Shaughnessy. Ushers see show for free. 




NCAA 

continued/rom page 16 
their talents in a particular sport have an opportunity to go on to col­lege, to get an education, on a full scholarship," Davis said. "They receive the highest level of coach­ing. health care and training. and at the same time receive the highest level of education available at that institution. 
"I don't think either the institu­tion or the student-athlete is exploit­ing the other. There are instances, though, where the student-athlete has been exploited by an institution, but I think that's in a vast minority of cases." 
Raymond Baumhart, S.J., Presi­dent of Loyola University in Chicago, added another perspective on the subject, taking a position somewhere between that of Phelps and Davis. 
"Most college athletes are not being exploited," he said. "At most schools, there are none being ex­ploited. Few women athletes are being exploited. In some sports, such as lacrosse or field hockey, none are being exploited. The only cases we ha.ve of exploitation are a few male athletes in the revenue­producing or image-enhancing sports." 
The evil demon in all this, the al­mighty dollar, comes largely from one source, network television money. Peter Lund, President ofCBS Sports, also was on hand last night to defend the networks' position. 
"We are only a buyer ofrights sold to us by various colleges and univer­sities," said Lund. "We do not con­trol how that money is spent. We do feel, in a somewhat strange sort of way, responsible for what is going on, but, again, we can't control the individual schools." 
Last night's moderator, James 
"Good 
friends don't let 



Qood
friends smoke cigarettes:' 
Larry Hagman 
Thursday, October 10, 1985-page 10 



URBAN
" 


Reilly, Assistant Vice President at Loyola, made his own observation on network television's relation to college athletics. Reilly surmised that when a network carries a game, it makes money, and that when a scandal hits, it also makes money. Ei~her way, scandal or no scandal, the networks do well, he concluded. 
It also was brought out that a student-athlete on full scholarship is entitled to room and board, tuition and fees, and up to $900 in a Pell Grant if financial need is shown. Phelps, meanwhile, suggested that student-athletes be paid a stipend in addition to that which they now receive. 
"Last year's NCAA tournament for basketball grossed 132 million," Phelps stated. "All we would need to do is take $4 million off the top of that and divide it up among the 270 member schools-n,ooo a month per player times l 0 months -and we could afford it." 
Phelps claimed that such a practice would eliminate such il­legal "nickel and dime" offenses as ticket scalping and gifts to athletes from booster dubto and alumni. 
Davis and Baumhart both opposed the suggestion ofthe Notre Dame basketball coach, though, with Baumhart pointing out a poten­
tial  problem  with  any  proposal  
giving money only  to  scholarship  
basketball players.  

"Within a week, a member of the track team will file suit charging dis­crimination," countered the Loyola president. "It would cost us a whole lot more money than what you've suggested." 
The topic of pressure within col­lege athletic circles later arose in the panel discussion. Phelps was first to say that perhaps society overem­phasizes the importance of college athletics. 
"It bothers me when people say their school is going to fold if the 

The Observer 

APPIIo<o 
Los Angeles Dodgers pitcber Fernando Valenzuela paced his team to a big victory last night over the St. Louis Cardinals. Details ofthe National League playoffopener are in the story at right, and American League news is on page I 4. 
......-.THE COLLEGE OF SCIENCE~ DISTINGUISHED SCHOLAR LECTURE SERIES 
Presents 
PROFESSOR JOHN D. DOW Freimann Professor of Physics 

Semiconductors in Computers of the Future: Superlattices in Gallium Arsenide 


OCTOBER 1Oth 8:00PM MEMORIAL LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
NEW YORK CAST 
The Famous Musical Story 

I I 
"Let Me Entertain You" "Everything's Coming Up Roses" 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11-8:00 p.m. 
O'LAUGHUN AUDITORIUM SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE Reserved Seats $10 for info caJJ: (219) 284-4626 Mail Requesb to: Saint Mary' a College, 
P.O. Box 114, Notre Dame, IN 46556 




------------------------. 
Thursday, October 10, 1985-page 11 
N.L. playoffs 

Valenzuela lifts L.A. to 4-1 win 
AAoclatedPre811 
LOS ANGELES -Los Angeles stole an offensive ploy from St. Louis last night, and Fernando Valenzuela pitched the Dodgers to a 4-1 victory over John Tudor and the Cardinals in the first game of the I985 Na­tional League playoffs. 
Bill Madlock, acquired by the Dodgers five weeks ago in a trade with Pittsburgh, was the offensive catalyst in both innings in which the Dodgers scored. 
Valenzuela worked 6 1/3 innings for his first victory in nearly a month, and the Dodgers scored their runs with the help of an error, a stolen base and a two-out squeeze bunt, of­fensive tactics more commonly thought of as belonging to the Car­dinals. 
The opportunistic Cardinals, meanwhile, wasted one opportunity after another against Valenzuela. 
The best-of-seven series, which opened before a Dodger Stadium crowd of 55,270, continues tonight with a match of right-banders Orel Hershiser, 19-3, of the Dodgers against Joaquin Andujar, 21-12. 
The Dodgers scored one run In the fourth on an error, a stolen base and a bloop single by Pedro Guer­rero, then scored three more in the sixth and chased Tudor with the 

No. 6 singles player 
help of the bunt. Tudor, who had won 20 of his last 21 decisions, had taken a three-hitter Into the Dodgers' big inning. 
A loss to Valenzuela on July 20 was the only blemish on Tudor's record after a I-7 start. Valenzuela was rebounding from a poor finish that saw him go -I-2 with five no­decisions In his final eight starts. His last win of the regular season came on Sept. II against Atlanta. 


American League page 14 
In each ofthe first two innings, the Cardinals had runners on second with two out, but each time fililed to get the key hit to bring in a run against Valenzuela. 
Tommy Herr doubled to left field with two out in the first, and Valen­zuela then walkedJack Clark on a 3­2 pitch. But Cesar Cedeno blooped out weakly to Sax at second and the inning was over. 
With two out in the second, Smith singled for the Cardinals, then stole second base. But Tudor grounded out to second and another threat had evaporated against the clever Dodger left-hander. 
Tudor, meanwhile, retired the first seven batters before giving up a single to Sax, who drove a 1·0 pitch up the middle. Sax was sacrificed to second by Valenzuela for the second out of the inning, and Mariano Dun­can grounded out to third for the final out. 
Again in the fourth inning, the Cardinals had a two-out runner after Pendleton reached on a bunt single to third. His bunt was fielded by Madlock, whose throw looked to be in time but pulled first baseman Enos Cabell's foot off the bag. Pendleton, however, was quickly dispatched when Valenzuela picked him off first and the Cardinal baserunner was put out in a run­down. 
The Cards got the leadoff runner on in the following Inning, but again failed to score. Porter led off with a single to right, but Smith followed with a routine fly ball to left. Valen­zuela then struck out the next two batters, Tudor, on an anempted two­strike bunt, and Coleman. 


Szajko asset to SM C tennis team 
By CHRISTINE FORTIN 
Sports Writer 
Contributing team spirit and talent to the Saint Mary's tennis team, freshman Charlene Szajko has proven herself to be quite an asset. 
She currently plays in the No. 6 position and holds a 9-4 record, which is the best win-loss record on the team. 
Szajko added two wins to her record last Saturday when the Belles played In the Notre Dame Invita­tional. She was the only team mem­ber to pick up a win for Saint Mary's in the matches against Cincinnati and Marquette. 
Saint Mary's had met Marquette earlier in the season, but Szajko lost to her opponent that time. 
Saturday, Szajko lost the first set to Marquette, but she did not give up and won the match in a tiebreaker In the third set. 
"Charlene is good enough to move up to a higher position," said Belles coach Debbie Laverie, but Laverie said she Is reluctant to make the transition because Szajko is doing so well in the No. 6 position. 
Szajko, a Mishawaka resident, has been playing tennis for eight years and teaches tennis to students and adults during the summer. In high 


Erasmus Books 
1027 E. Wayne Tues-Sun, noon-6 1 block south of Jetferson & Eddy 
U..d A -•of p....t boob bo...t, -lei....rclilecl 

··cz;Qowehg {ph aQQ or.eagiottg 
Come in and Browse 
327lincolnway 232-3354 
EVERY.BODY NEEDS A SHOT OF 
SMIRNOFF ONCE IN A. 'WHilE 
Russian comedian 




Yakov Smirnoff 
coming to Stepan Center 
Friday, October 11 at 8:00 
Tickets on sale at.LaFortune Record Store Price: $3.00 Student Activities Board 
school, she played No. 2 and No. 4 singles. She was awarded most lm· proved player her sophomore year and recc:ived the mental attitude award her junior year. 
Szajko, a nursing major, said she was attracted to Saint Mary's be­cause of its small size. She likes the benefits that Saint Mary's has to of· fer, especially the individual atten­tion In the classroom. 
Although tennis was not a factor In her decision to attend Saint Mary's, she said she enjoys playing with the team and Intends to play all four years. 
"Playing with the team is a good experience and I feel that I am im­proving with every match," she said. 
"Charlene is the kind of player every coach wants to have," Laverle said. "She has a lot of potential and works hard to execute instructions." 
Szajko. said she feels her role on the team is no different from anyone else's. She prefers college tennis over high school tennis because of the higher degree of competition and the Belle's spirit of team unity. 
Laveric: said that Szajko has risen to the high level of play and con­tributed to the team as a whole. 
"Charlene Is a good team player," Laverie said. "She always cheers on the other players and promotes team comraderie." 
The Belle's next match is Saturday 
morning when  they play  host  to  
Taylor  University.  The  match  Is  
slated for 10 a.m.  





Irish 
continuedfrompage 16 
ball past the diving Breslin into the lower left corner at 74:33 to give the Warriors a commanding 5-2 lead. 
Martin Mangialardi scored for Notre Dame at 75:'52 to make the final score close. 
Grace, meanwhile, said he can only speculate as to why his squad has not played with Intensity In the first half. 
"I can't put my finger on It," he said. "It could be the fact that we've only won three ballgames out of 14. 
"I hope It's not the f.act that they don't believe in themselves. This weekend will tell the tale." 
The Irish will play Vanderbilt and the host team in the Illinois State Tournament Saturday and Sunday. 

.. ' 
4 

--~~--~-~--------------~----­
The Observer Thursday, October 10, 1985 -page 12 

----~--~-­

The Observer Thursday, October 10, 1985 -page 13 

HOTLINE 
A 24-Hour Phone Crisis Intervention Service 
232·2522 





presents 
DUS'riN &OlTMAN 




IIJioolsie 
Friday, Oct.11 and Saturday, Oct.12 7:00,9:15,11:30 En ineerin Auditorium $1.50 



Golfers get 2nd in MCC tourney 
SpecW to The Observer 
The Notre Dame golf team finished in second place in the Midwestern City Conference Championship at the GolfClub of Indianapolis Tuesday. 
The Irish finished the 54-hole tournament behind national power Oral Roberts in blustery weather. 
Senior captain john O'Donovan was named to the all· conference team with a three· round total of 240. O'Donovan's rounds of 76, 80 and 84 gave him fifth place overall. 
Rich Connelly missed the all­conference squad with rounds of 76, 80 and 86. john Anthony hit 248 for the Irish, and Chris Bona finished at 251. 
Senior Steve Fuhrer, who hoped to repeat on the all­conference team, was forced from the competition with an eye injury after the second round. His 76-80 pace put him with the leaders after that round. 
Buder finished the tournament in third place, and Evansville was fourth. Medalist for the tourna­ment was Nick Classen of Oral 
Roberts,  who  hit  225,  with  
rounds of 72, 7 4  and 79.  
Irish  Head  Coach  Noel  

O'Sullivan said he was pleased 



Soccer 
continued from page 16 
3-0 after escaping a strong threat by 
Fisher by the score of 1-0. 
"We got off to a sluggish start, and 
we underestimated them," said Holy 
Cross captain Frank Loughlin. "It 
was our toughest game so far." The 
game's only goal, occuring midway 
throught the first half, was scored by 
Kahlil Shalabi. The Hogs have yet to 
be scored upon after three games. 
Cavanaugh improved to 3-1 with a 
victory over Carroll on Monday 
night, as Mark Burdell scored on a 
breakaway with two minutes left in 
the game, breaking a 1-1 tie. 
Cavanaugh survived a late first-half 
defensive lapse which saw them at a 
1-0 disadvantage at halftime. Matt 
Zyniewicz scored the equalizer mid­
way through the second half for 
Cavanaugh. 
Grace "B" won its first game ofthe 
season last Saturday in exciting fas­
hion against the same Carroll team. 
Tied 2-2 after regulation on goals by 
Jim Grace and Phil Castilano, Grace 
"B" used a sudden-death shootout 
goal by captain Tom Mall to get 
Grace on the winning track with a 
3-2 victory. 
The West European League saw 
perhaps the fiercest battle of the 
week, as Zahm "A" defeated a luck­
less Sorin team by a score of 3-2. 
Zahm "A" got on the board early on 
captain Bill Lane's goal, but Sorin 


~ 

.. 
with the second-place finish for Evansville came to the tourna-Notre Dame. ment to upset us." ''I'm delighted to say that the 
The Irish were able to handle 
team performed well," he said. 
the pressure, however, and they"When your team is expected to now have a second-place trophy come in second, the pressure is 
to show for it. 
on. "It really does not matter Ifyou 

Notre Dame has finished third represent a name school, be­in the tournament in two cause teams like Buder and previous trips. 
was to even the score on a penalty kick later in the first half. Tom Keating put Zahm "A" back on top with a goal right before halftime. 
Second-half action quickly heated up, as Sorin once again tied the game at two. However, Sorin's hopes for a victory were once again dashed when Matt Tfohl ofZahm "A" scored with three minutes left in regulation. Zahm "A" evened its record at 2-2; Sorin fell to 0-3. 
Traditional West European powerhouse Flanner "A" rumbled through the week with victories over Keenan and Zahm "A", improv­ing its record to 3-1. In last Sunday's game against Keenan, Flanner "A" used second-half goals by captain Bill johnson and Ed Sparinchak to roll to a 2-0 victory. 
"Keenan was our best game so far," said captain Bill Johnson. "We really got it together in the second half." 
Flanner "A" came back on Tues­day against Zahm "A," rebounding from a 1-0 deficit to win, 2-1. "We didn't go after them too hard," remarked johnson. However, Flan­ner "A" recovered with goals from Doug Feeney and Nat Vories to go on and win the match. 
Over in the East European League, the "Mud Cup" was played on Satur­day morning between Dillon I and Pangborn. After the mud was slung and the cold rain had fallen, Dillon I prevailed by a 2-0 score. The Dillon 
attack was fueled by a two-goal per­
formance by Mike Carney. 
Pangborn rebounded from its loss 
in the quagmire yesterday with a 5-0 
tarring of Holy Cross "B", on two­
goal performances by John Drew 
and Mike Jakob, and an added goal 
byJeff Laurenson. 
In other East European games, 
Stanford remained undefeated as It 
showed up to beat an apathetic Flan­
ner "B" squad, 5-0. The talented 
Studs were no match for the ten 
Flanner "B" players who showed up 
to play. Goals were provided by Dan 
O'Donnell, Rob Zelinski, Jim Byrne, 
"Boo-Boo" EL-Farhan and John 
Quinn. 
This weekend will prove crucial to many teams still hoping for playoff berths. Howard will try to prove that it is for real as it goes up against an extremely tough Morris­sey "A" squad (Saturday, 11 a.m., North Stepan). If Howard passes that test, all eyes will be on its game against St. Ed's. Keenan may be the last team to be able to beat O.C. Crime this season in the West European League, and in fact Keenan must win to preserve any playoff hopes it might have (Saturday, 11 a.m., North Stepan). 
One final game of interest over in the East European League is the match between Dillon I and Stan­ford, where the undefeated Studs go up against an unknown, and possibly quite talented, adversary (Sunday, 2 p.m., North Stepan). 

Afteryourlastexam, whattoughquestions will youstillbe facing? 

W don't have your answers. But we'll listen to your questions, 
share some of our own about who we want to become and where we want to journey. For anyone who has considered the path of priesthood, the Holy Cross Fathers' One· Year Candidate Program provides an opportunity to ask and explore the possibilities in community . 
Contact: 
Vocation Dtrector Box 541 Notre Dame. IN 46556·0541 
• 
(219) 239·6385 
w 

The Observer Thursday, October 10, 1985-page 14 
A.L. playoffs 

Blue Jays earn two-game lead 
scored to tie the game 5-5 when expansion Blue Jays of 1977, to send 
Moseby singled to right. the game into extra innings. 

TORONTO -AI Oliver slapped a With Bell at the plate, Moseby got Sheridan's homer marked the 
single to left field with two outs in to second when first baseman Steve second time within a week that 
the lOth inning, driving· home lloyd Balboni failed to handle a pickoff Henke allowed a tying homer in the 
Moseby from second base and cap­throw by Quisenberry. ninth inning of a key game. Last 
ping a two-run rally off Kansas City After Bell flied to center, Oliver -Friday, he gave up a homer in nearly 
relieface Dan Quisenberry that gave acquired in midseason from Los An­the same spot to New York's Butch 
the Toronto Blue Jays a 6-5 victory geles -slapped an opposite-field Wynegar with two outs in the ninth 
yesterday and a commanding two­single to left, and the speedy Moseby in a game the Yankees eventually 
game lead in the American League scored easily ahead of the throw won, delaying the Blue Jays' first 
playoffs. from Lonnie Smith. division title by one day. 

Moseby had been the center of Reliever Tom Henke, who gave up When Sheridan's hit cleared the 
controversy in the top of the 1Oth, a tying home run to pinch-hitter Pat fence, the crowd of 34,029 -about 
when Kansas City scored to take a Sheridan in the top of the ninth, got 10,000 below capacity and the smal­
5-4 lead. the victory, while Quisenberry took lest playoff crowd since Game 4 of 
But the quick turnaround in the the loss. the 1974 AL playoffs between Bal­
Blue Jays' fortunes sent the best-of­Henke entered the game in the timore and Oakland -was plunged 
seven series to Kansas City for Game eighth after Gary Lavelle walked into silence. They had sat through a 
3 tomorrow night with the Roayls in leadoff batter George Brett. Lavelle grayafternoon that broughta couple 
an unenviable position. had replaced Dennis Lamp, who of brief sprinkles and forced the 
retired all 11 Kansas City batters he lights at Exhibition Stadium to beThe Royals started as if they faced after coming in with one out in turned on from the start. But for thewould easily snap their nine-game the fourth and a runner on third with second straight game, the tem­postseason losing streak, taking an Kansas City ahead 3-0. perature was ideal for baseball. Itearly 3-0 lead. But this game was full was 68 degrees when play began. 
of twists, and the 1Oth inning was Kansas City Manager Dick Howser A hit batter seemed to rile thethe most dramatic ofall. saw his personal postseason record Blue Jays in the sixth, and theyWillie Wilson scored from second fall to 0-1 1 -including three against quickly struck for two runs thatbase when center fielder Moseby the Royals as manager of the New made it 3-3.

trapped Frank White's single with York Yankees in 1980 -as the Royals With two outs. Bell was hit in the two outs in the top of the inning, lost for the fourth time in five extra­side by Kansas City starter Budgiving Kansas City the lead for the inning games against Toronto this Black. Bell, suspended earlier in thesecond time. year. 

season when he kicked BostonWhite hit a hard liner up the When the series resumes tomor­pitcher Bruce Kison after getting hitmiddle. Moseby came charging in, row at Royals Stadium, Howser will by a pitch, stared at Black as hereached down and scooped up the send Bret Saberhagen, 20-6, against slowly walked toward first.
ball, raising his glove as if he had Doyle Alexander, 17-10, who Black walked toward Bell, butmade the catch. pitched the division-clincher for home plate umpire Dale Ford gotToronto last Saturday. 

Second base umpire Ted Hendry between them before anything
For a moment, it looked as if the 
ran toward Moseby but did not make developed.
Blue Jays wouldwin in nine innings. 

an immediate call. Hendry looked Cliff Johnson followed with a
Moseby, hitless in eight previous

toward crew chief Dave Phillips, single that moved Bell to second,
playoff at-bats, singled to ignite an

who was on the right-field line, for and Black bounc•ed a wild pitch that
eighth-inning rally and scored on a

help, and Phillips waved that put 1runners on s•econd and third. At
sacrifice fly by George Bell to give

Moseby had trapped the ball. that point, Cox sent Lou Thornton in
Toronto a 4-3lead.

While all this was happening, Wil­to nm for the slow-footed)ohnson.
Moseby, who went 0-for-5 Tues­

son, who led off the 1Oth with a )esse Barfield battled Black to a
day night and was hitless in his first 

single and stole second, scampered full count, fouling off three 3· 2 
three at-bats in Game 2, slashed a

home. deliveries, then hit a bouncer up the
one-out single off Quisenberry. He 

Different angles showed different middle for a single that tied the
then stole second on the first pitch
results on the replay. From the side, score.
to Bell and continued to third when

it looked as if the catch was clean, Wilson had shaken the Royals out
catcher Jim Sundberg bounced his 

but head-on, it appeared the ball had oftheir doldrums in the third inning.
throw to second and the ball went
taken a short hop into Moseby's 
into shallowcenter field for an error.

glove. Biancalana, the No. 9 batter in the
Bell then drove a pitch to the edge of

Moseby threw up his arms in dis­lineup who hit just .188 this season, 
the warning track in right-center

belief at the call and left fielder led offwith a single and took second
field for the sacrifice.

George Bell kicked his glove. as Smith grounded out. Wilson then Toronto Manager Bobby Cox raced But in the top of the ninth inning, lined a 0-2 pitch into the left-center onto the field and huddled with all Henke failed to protect that lead. On field seats for a home run, and he six umpires at second base, but the a 2-2 pitch, Sheridan homered to celebrated the occasion by clapping play stood. right field to tie the score, 4-4. One his hands and pumping his fist into 
But in the bottom of the 1Oth, the out later, Henke walked Buddy Bian­the air as he rounded first base. The Blue Jays showed their character. calana, but Smith then struck out Blue Jays' fans countered by throw­Tony Fernandez led offwith a boun­and pinch-runner Concepcion was ing the home-run ball back onto the cer that shortstop Onex Concep­caught stealing for a double play. field. cion grabbed, but double~clutched In the bottom of the ninth, Rance Key struck out Balboni to get out and threw late to first for an infield Mulliniks singled with two out, but ofa two-on, two-out jam later in the hit. Fernandez moved to second on a Quisenberry struck out Ernie Whitt, third, but Kansas City drove Key groundout by Damaso Garcia and one ofthree original members ofthe from the mound the next inning. 
Wln$1,0001 PoetryContest 

A $I,CXXl grand prize is being offered in World of 
Poetry's new poetry con­test, open to all students. 


··lf~.. 
There are 100 prizes in all. For a FREE list of rules and 

kit..~ 
prizes, write ­

~ 20% Discount 
WORLD OF POETRY 2431 Stoctdon, Dept. CS 

N.D.-S.M.C.
Sacrwnento, CA 95817 
Students 

•. 

z ~ 
<
I­
.a: 
:Q 
·:(l. 

niversity Park Mall and Concord & Pierre Moran Malls Elkhart 
~~ 


\ 
/4
w. ·.,~ 
APPboto
Better than good 
New York Mets pitcher Dwight Gooden accepeted tbe Seagrams 1985 Baseball Player of tbe Year trophy Monday in New York. Gooden also took bame 110,000. 

TONIGHT :5"o¢ 
LADIES NIGHT !!~(Mixed Drinks for the Ledi es! 

0•• 

FRIDAY LUNCH: 
Lunch from 11 :30 -2:00 Pi zze -Subs -Beer 




']I['~.cll.at~-------------------------------------------T·h·u-rs•d•a•y•,o--c.to.b.e.r.I.o•,•l•9•8•5•-•p•a•g•e•l-5 
Bloom County 
JLMP!rl' J€HOSflfHir/ 5TR(!CK (1()WN WITH f1MNf5/f1 fiN!? NtlN fXJCm£1? 8'1 
Hllti£Y'5 C01rf€r_. itHIT ll Fl~ ff?aJtCf/MIWr TMIN... 
THEN CAME" DAWNA WHfN I CAASHEt> I ALL OF TI-/OSC' FANS 
The Daily Crossword 

ACROSS 1 SIMpllke­5 Derelict 
11 Rotten 14 A Ruth 15 Armpit 16 Eng. river 17 Exert pressure 19 Malt brew 20 Duds 21 Alarmed 23 Canvas 25 Flinty 26 Clothed 29 Service or 
stick 32 Showoff 35 Aboveboard 36 NYC area 38 Court 39 Pommel 40 Indian Is one 41 Slight 42 Hockey's Bobby 43 Maneuvers 1--1--+­44 Nylons 45 Circus 
C> 1985 Tribune Medii Services, Inc. 10/10/85employee "II Rights Reserved 

47 Scot. river 46 Specie 
Wednesday's Solution 

49 Biblical 11 Strive toward prophet 12 Wheel holder 51 Cabbagesalad 13 Legalpaper 
M A S ~~S P E E B A l I
A L T 0 S C 0 R N 0 R E L 

53 Grove 16 Deg. holder 
R A Y S C 0 U N T W A V E 

55 Develop 22 Fr. sculptor 59 Wapiti 24 Undisturbed 
S I X S H 0 0 T E R I B I 0 

60 Goaalps 26 Automaton 
ROT·T· 

64 Imposture 27 La Scala 
F 0 R GrJf-GiA K E R 

65 Beetle offering 
U V E A E S A U A N N E X 

66 Check texts 26 Wall St. term 
S E N T R A K E 011 T E A 

67 Moppet 30 A Castle 66 Lures 31 Dinnerware ~-L~J~ FEST
GG
E D T H E R E S 

69 Curved ceiling 33 Stir 
E~ACE
34 US painter DOWN Mark 
S T A G W I N C~S T E R 
T A N G G N 0 M E C 0 L E 

1 Rhyme scheme 36 Garden Item 2 Fruit pie 37 Naval off. 
E T T U A D D E R U R S A 
T E E N W 0 E S D E E M 

3 News Item 41 Bestowed 
4 Contrite liberally 5 Onewho 43 Iced 10/10/85 
appraises 46 Language 6 Outer: pref. suffix 53 Fabric for 58 it. city 7 Playing marble 46 Baby tender hats 61 Resin 6 -de France 50 Hackneyed 54 Gallimaufry 62 WWII 9 Curtail 52 Suggeatlve 56 Make over command 
10 Blttemeas glances 57 Dire 63 Tunisian ruler 

Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

·10 1!:> 1985 Universal Press 
Kevin Wal~h 
THATS WHEN NOTRE DAME TOL.t> ME 11-iE Y NEE'ta> SDME:ONE 1<:> THEIR LAW'NS. 
Campus 

•12:
15 P.M. -1:00 P.M. -Lecture-"Racismin America", "Racism in America", Reverend Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., University of Notre Dame, Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Center for Social Concerns, Brown bag or soup and bread for S 1.00 

•3:30 
P.M.-6:00P.M.-Nursing Career Day, North lounge, Regina Hall, Sponsored by Saint Mary's Student Nursing Association 

•4:00 
P.M. -5:00 P.M. -Support Group, Graduate Student Support Group, linda Monroe, M.A., Leader, Room 300 Counseling and Psychological Services Center, Sponsored by Counseling and Psychological Services Center 

•4:30 
P.M. -6:15 P.M. -German Dinner, Uoyd's Wienerschnitzel Band, Saint Mary's Northwest Field, behind Science Building, Sponsored by Saint Mary's College Student Government, Coexes available for Notre Dame students 

•5:30 
P.M. -Spanish Club Dinner, South Club Dining Hall, Sponsored by Spanish Club 

•6:30 
P.M. -Meeting, Center for Social Con­cerns, Sponsored by Committee for a Sane Nuclear Policy 

•7:00 
P.M. · Lecture, Advances in Sociologi­cal Research Exxon Distinguished Visiting Scholar Series, "Schools, Children and the Family", James S. Coleman, University of Chicago, 122 Hayes-Healy, Sponsored by Department ofSociology 

•7:00 
P.M. -Orpnizadooal Meeting, Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Overseas Development Network 



"Be back by suppertime, Hump ... And, as always, you be careful." 
•7:00 
P.M.-Presentation and Reception, First National Bank ofChicago, Upper lounge, University Club, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services, Open to scheduled Ac­countancy, Finance, Math CC Seniors 

•7:00 
P.M.-Presentation and Recepdon, Kraft, Incorporated, Alumni Room, Morris Inn, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services, Open to MBA's with Marketing in­terested in job opportunities with Kraft, Inc. 

•7:00 
P.M. and 9:30P.M.-PeterSellenFilm, "Being There", Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by Student liaison Committee Of The Snite Museum, S1.50 

•7:00, 
9:00 and II:00 P.M. -SAB Movie, "The Graduate", Engineering Auditorium,' Sponsored by Student Activities Board, S1.00 

•8:00 
P.M.-FUm, "Last Grave At Dimbaza", Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Anti-Apartheid Network, 

•8:00 
P.M. -DistinguJshed Scholar Lecture Series, "Semiconductors of the Future", Professor John D. Dow, Freiman Professor of Physics, Memorial library Auditorium, Sponsored by The College ofScience, 

•8:
10 P.M. -TheaterProduction, "End ofthe World", Washington Hall, For tickets, call 284-4626 

•9:00 
P.M. -1:00 A.M. · German Gardens, with band, Danny and the Deadbeats, Saint Mary's Northwest Field, behind Science Build, Sponsored by Saint Mary's College Student Government, S 1 admission to Beer Tent for those 21 and up 


Dinner Menus 

Notre Dame Saint Mary's Sausage Bar Roast Beef Italian IGelbasa Sauerbraten Brats steamed in beer Wienerschnitzel Sea Nugget Platter Bratwurst Tuna Stuffed Tomato with Breadsticks 


------------~

The Notre Dame football team will not play a game this Saturday, and the way things have been going lately, it may be just as well. The players and coaches can use the time off to rest, regroup, and most importantly to get things toget­her. 
But when the 1985 season resumes in Notre Dame Stadium on Saturday, Oct. 19, the moment of reckoning will be at hand. The opponent will be Army, another un­defeated service academy team that employs a wishbone offense. (Sound familiar?) 
For Notre Dame, there is a great deal riding on the Army game. It may, in fact, be Notre Dame's last chance to salvage its season. The Irish have reached the point where they can either find themselves as a team and start playing with some consistency, or just keep on making the same sortofmistakes that have become all too familiar this year. 
The talent is there for this team to put on a strong finish. But it's up to the coaches and the players themselves to get on the right track. 
Quarterback Steve Beuerlein had some thoughts to that effect after Notre Dame's 35-17 loss to Purdue, the low point ofthe season so far. 
"We can play with anybody," said Beuerlein. "That's why this season has been so frustrating. Jf· .. .; can just go out on the field and execute and gainsorre consistency, then we'll be all right. But we can't wait any longer." 
No, they can't. While it may alr !ady be too late to salvage the '85 season, there's no doub. that if the Irish don't es-


Larry Burke 
Football Notebook 

tablish some consistency now, things are going to get even worse. All it takes is a look at the schedule to establish that fact. 
After Army comes Southern Cal, a team that was in the Top Twenty two weeks ago before suffering a 24-0 defeat at the hands ofArizona St. on Sept. 28. The Trojans are just 2-2, but appear to be getting things together again, as evidenced by their 63-0 pasting ofOregonSt. last Saturday. 
Notre Dame concludes its four-game homestand with Navy ( 1-3) and and Mississipi ( 2-2-1 ), two teams that aren't particularly strong. But things get tougher after that, when the Irish face Penn State and LSU in the next two weeks. Both teams are currently undefeated and ranked in the Top Twenty. The Nittany Lions are eighth, and will take a 4-0 record into Saturday's nationally-televised contest with I Oth-ranked Alabama. The 2-I Tigers held the No. 8 spot last week, but slippc:d to 20th after Saturday's loss to Florida. 
The Irish wrap up their season in Miami, where they have not won since 1977. The Hurricanes dropped their '85 opener to Florida, but have since come back to win three straight, including a 45-10 victory at Boston College. 
Can this year's Notre Dame team hope to win against that sort of competition? Not if it keeps making the same crucial mistakes, keeps committing the same mental er· rors, and keeps taking the same innoportune penalties. 
What has made all these mistakes even more critical is the times at which they've occurred. The Air Force game is a good example. It seemed that whenever the Irish moved the ball deep into Falcon territory, the offense self­destructed. If the Air Force game had been played on a 70-yard field, the Irish would have scored 40 points. 
Notre Dame's first four games have brought to light plenty of problems, the biggest of which could be the team's attitude. Are the players willing to do what it takes to turn things around? 
"I think it's all up to us now," said senior defensive back Pat Ballage. "It gets to be frustrating, because it's been four years and things haven't changed. The danger is that the team could get into a losing attitude. You worry about get­ting used to losing. But I don't think that will happen to this team. 
"The guys that are pumped up are the guys that want to win. But it's hard to pinpoint exactly what it takes to get up to win." 
Whatever it takes, the Irish had better put their finger on it soon. 

S~orts 

Soccer team. loses 8th as Marquette rolls, 5-3 
By GREG STOHR sity," said Grace. "When you play Sports Writer good teams they're not going to let you do that. They are a good team, 
Dennis Grace is perplexed. The and they took advantage ofit." Notre Dame Head Soccer Coach A IS-yard Dave Miles blast off fel­says he cannot figure out why his low Irish tri-captain Chris Telk's pass team always seems to play a weak found the upper left corner of the first half. Warrior net at 31:18 and cut the 
It was a poorly-played first half margin in half. The visitors im­that cost the Irish a win yesterday on mediately answered, however, with Alumni Field, as Marquette roared to aJohn Slawson goal at 34:13 to make a 3-1 halftime lead en route to a 5-3 the halftime score 3-1. victory over the home squad. Marquette outshot Notre Dame 
The loss dropped Notre Dame's 16-3 in the first half. The Irish did record to 3-8-3. • not force Warrior goalkeeper Mike 
"I'm tired of playing 45 minutes Dietrich to make a single save during instead of90," Grace said afterward. the opening 45 minutes. "In the first half we're just not In the second half Notre Dame playing. I don't know why. It baffles showed signs of life. When Bruce me." "Tiger" McCourt banged the 
Marquette, now 10-3, quickly rebound ofhis own shot into the net took advantage of the Irish sluggish­at 56:53, the Irish closed the gap to ness yesterday. Steve DuFauchard one goal. picked up an errant Notre Dame "In the second half we came out pass and rolled a shot past out­and played finally," said Grace. "We stretched Irish keeper Hugh Breslin did some nice things." for a 1-0 Warrior lead 10:25 into the Marquette, though, secured vic­contest. The Warriors then took a 2-tory with two goals in j,ust 41 0 lead at 21:55 when James Tutaj seconds. Tom Wetterman blasted a knocked in Dan Stadler's cross from shot into the upper left corner at the left side. 73:52, and DeFauchard bounced the 
"When the game started, we were 
see IRISH, page 11 
not interested in playing with inten-


Thursday, October 10, 1985 -page 16 
) 

1brot.ervu/Juain 
Smith 
Notre Dame's Marvin Lett (3) turns the corner on Alumni Field yesterday. Greg Stohr bas all the against Marquette's Daniel Barrett ( 17) in action details ofthe 5-3 Irish loss in his story at left. 
Powerhouse teams begin to emerge from interhall soccer competition 
ByTERRY LYNCH the first half, followed a while later sometime in the near future. Sports Writer by Dave Warth. Gene Pilawski divisional title probably will be at· netted the third goal for St. Ed's with stake when the game is played. 
The men's interhall soccer five minutes remaining in the first In other action, Grace schedule bravely slogged its way half. defeated Morrissey "A" by a score of through yet another week ofgames, "We played really well in the first 4-0, led by a two-goal performance as divisional powers began to half," said St. Ed's captain Charles by Chuck Papandrea. emerge in anticipation of the post­Higgs-Coulthard. "Playing against Close matches dominated break playoffs. the wind in the second halfwas a big play of the topsy-turvy 
In the South American league, St. factor, plus we subbed a little." American league, as Holy Ed's took the driver's seat with a 3-0 St. Ed's still must play an upstart Cavanaugh and Alumni all still defeat of Zahm "B" on Monday Howard team, which also boasts a 3-claims to the divisional title. night. Guy Rymsza started the 0 record. That showdown, although Cross improved its season mark scoring early for undefeated St. Ed's scheduled for last Saturday, was see SOCCER, page 13
with a goal only three minutes into postponed and will be played 

Phelps says athletes are exploited 
ByJEFF BLUMB coach. "The number of cases is in­athlete who is being exploited be· Sports Edttor creasing each year. We can look at cause of his talent." the example of Memphis State from Other panel members 
CHICAGO -Lo and behold, Notre this past summer. Since 1972, there night's Dialogue television program Dame basketball coach Digger hasn't been one black basketball entitled "Exploitation ofthe College Phelps was at it again last night. His player who has graduated from Athlete" did not agree completely personal crusade to clean up college Memphis State, and only 10 percent with the views of Phelps, however. athletics continued at the Chicago ofall their players have graduated. NCAA President John Davis, leading Press Club and the message was loud off the discussion, suggested the ot­and clear: today's student-athlete is "We can take a look at the NBA her extreme. being exploited by the nation's col­and see that below 30 percent of "I think we have a situation where leges and universities. those playing in the league today young people who have developed 
"Yes, our college athletes are have degrees. And in most of those see NCAA, page 10 
being exploited," said the Irish situations, it's the minority student-
Irish are at the crossroads of '85 season 






