
----------·--~-· 
CSC Festival pages 6,7 

VOL XIX, NO. 79 the indcpcndcllt ~tudcnt lll'W~papcr ~en ing notrl dame and ~aim mary'~ THURSDAY, JANUARY 24, 1985 

Filipino general, 25 others charged in Aquino murders 
Associated Press ducted a military investigation that concluded Galman was the killer. 
MANILA, Philippines A Each count carries a possible 20­government prosecutor yesterday year sentence. charged the country's most power­Businessman Hermilo Gosuico ful military commander and 25 was accused as an accomplice, other men in connection with the which carries a possible life term. murders of opposition leader Galman's children testified Gosuico Benigno Aquino and the man once was among the men who took their called his assassin. father away three days before the 
JOB

assassination.
Prosecutors said the charges against Armed Forces Chief Gen. 
All of the men charged except Fabian Ver and two other top Ver, Olivas, Custodio and Gosuico generals close to President Ferdi­were part of the security operation 
N01 

at the airport. 
nand Marcos would lead to a "free 
"D,.. ~,....,_A _,

and open" trial to show there is no Technically, all 26 suspects were 
APPboto 

cover-up in the killing of Marcos' charged with double murder. But Man of steel 
rally at the United States Steel Works in Duquesne, 
chief rival on Aug. 21, 1983. death penalties are only possible in 
Jessie Jackson, center, makes a point at a press Pa., last Friday in hopes offocusing attention on
the charges against Custodio and 
conference at the Pittsburgh airport. He led a noon the plant that isfor the most part shut down. 
Most of the accused were part of 
the 16 others accused of being prin­the airport security operation 
cipals in the murder. assigned to protect Aquino, who was shot as he stepped off the Marcos initially indicated he sup­airliner that brought him back to ported the military's claim that 
Ice on launch pad, frozen valves 
the Philippines after three years in Aquino was killed by Galman, but self-exile. later appointed a five-member fact­finding board whose 10-month in­

threatened to delay space shuttle 
Although repeatedly accused by vestigation led to the chargesthe opposition, Marcos has denied 
against the military men. Associated Press telligence information from the schedule. A service tower, mostlyany involvement in Aquino's kill­
Soviet Union. By keeping the scaffolding, was coated with iceing. But Ver is a distant relative of Ombudsman Justice Bernardo CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla, -Ice launch time unannounced, the Air and technicians were kept out of athe president and known for his un­Fernandez, who filed the charges, on the launch pad and frozen Force hopes to stymie Soviet at­fuel cell loading area because of thequestioning loyalty. said he was aware that many people valves threatened to delay yester­tempts to monitor the satellite. hazard.
would have liked to see Marcos
Aquino's killing shocked the na­day's liftoff of space shuttle Reporters were told Monday that A liquid oxygen valve froze shut, 
himself accused. 
tion and led to a year of protests Discovery, raising fears that the the countdown had started, but adding to the problems. 
"I don't care whether or not theagainst Marcos' two decades of 
first U.S. military space mission nothing else. On Tuesday, the Pen­
decision is popular as long as I am The temperature dropped to 19
authoritarian rule. might become the spy kept in the tagon relented somewhat and said
right," he said. degrees Monday night and chill 
Seventeen officers and soldiers cold. an announcement would be made ocean wind made it seem even col­led by Aviation Security Chief Aquino's brother, Agapito, who "We have one concern now, and when the countdown reached nine der. More frigid weather was 
Brig. Gen. Luther Custodio were has accused Marcos of plotting the that is the weather," said NASA minutes before intended liftoff. 
forecast for Tuesday night. 
accused of directly conspiring to assassination, said "what is missing spokesman Jim Ball. 
From that point, until ten On Tuesday afternoon, the
kill Aquino and Rolando Galman-­is the mastermind." Under secrecy rules, invoked for minutes after the shuttle reaches or­temperature climbed into the mid-the man previously alleged to be his "We cannot expect justice under the first time, the Air Force had bit, normal mission control an­40s and engineers were on the padkiller. The charges carry a possible Marcos," he said. said only that liftoff was scheduled . nouncements will keep news people checking for burst water lines and
death penalty. The prosecutor said the most between 1:15 and 4:15 p.m. EST updated. Then there will be silence, other ice damage. 
Ver and seven others were accus­likely triggerman was either Sgt. yesterday. 
except for periodic summaries, un­
ed of being accessories in cover-up Rogelio Moreno or Filomeno The shuttle will carry a crew of For a Wednesday afternoon lif­
til 16 hours before the shuttle is
attempts. Among them is Maj. Miranda, both of whom have been five male military officers and will toff, fueling the shuttle's big tanks
ready to return to Kennedy Space 
Gen. Prospero Olivas who con-charged as conspirators. deploy a satellite to gather in-with liqued oxygen and liquid
Center, Saturday or Sunday. 

hydrogen would have to begin near The unusual chill, part of the dawn. A further concern was ice deep freeze covering Florida, put forming on the tanks, adding unac­

Ethiopian relief extremely low; 
the countdown three hours behind ceptable weight. 
Last 15 ND students move 


more refugees heading for Sudan 
out of 4 dorm study lounges 
Associated Press tative for the United Nations Sudanese border. 
High Commissioner for Some half million EthiopiansKHARTOUM, Sudan -Food Refugees. "The problem is live in what the Relief Society 
By CINDY RAUCKHORST Many off-campus students,supplies for the more than food. We are receiving 2,000 to -describes as "distress areas," 
StaffReporter however, were also assigned rooms 160,000 Ethiopian refugees in 3,000 (refugees) a day, and we're where food supplies are barely 
on campus. Rooms were offered to
eastern Sudanese camps are run­basically living from day to adequate. 
The 15 Notre Dame students who all men on the off-campus waiting 
ning dangerously low and day." Between now and early sum­
spent the entire first semester living list for males. 80,000 more Ethiopian famine The U.N. group estimates mer, when the rainy season is 
in hall study lounges all have been 
Twenty-five rooms became
victims are believed to be head­that since November about expected to begin in northern moved into dorm rooms, said available to women at the ena of
ed for Sudan, relief workers 130,000 Ethiopians have fled in­Ethiopia, many of those half Evelyn Reinbold, director of hous­the first semester. There are still ap­
said. to Sudan from drought-ravaged million may be forced to leave ing. 
proximately 100 women remainingDespite a concerted effort by districts in the provinces of for Sudan, according to relief The eight men and seven women on the off-campus waiting list for
Sudanese and foreign relief Tigre and Eritrea. officials. If the Relief 
are the last to be moved from the females.
agencies in distributing The exodus has been organiz­Society's projections prove ac­lounges of Flanner, Grace, Pas­Reinbold explained that afteremergency shipments from the ed in rebel-controlled famine curate, the Sudanese Commis­
querilla East and Pasquerilla West. first semester, chances to obtaininternational community, areas by the Relief Society of sion for Refugees estimates the Movement to permanent rooms on-campus housing become evenworkers at several camps fear Tigre, which is affiliated with number of Ethiopians arriving took longer than last year primarily more slim. Only a few openings are
they will be unable to feed the rebel Tigre People's Libera­since November will reach a famine victims unless new sup­tion Front. quarter million by April. 
because of the unusually slow rate available, usually when disciplinary plies can be found in a matter of Relief Society officials have Already, food and water sup­
.of rooms becoming available, actions require a student to move Reinbold said. off campus or withdraw.
days. told the Sudanese that 80,000 plies in many of the Sudanese "In the east, the situation is people have already left their camps are critically short, with 
The University's housing policy Contracts for all on-campus undoubtedly much worse than it homes in northern Ethiopia and little prospect of improvement. 
requires all freshmen to live on students wishing to remain on cam­was last month," said Nicholas are walking hundreds of miles Sometimes "solutions'" create 
campus, placing them at the top pus for the 1985-86 school year Morris, Khartoum represen-over rough terrain to the entirely new problems. 
priority of the housing list, she must be returned to the Office of said. Housing by February 4. 
----______________________________________________J 
-~ --­
The Observer Thursday, January 24, 1985 -page 2 


In Brief 
Computerized room picks and the new official lottery schedule were discussed at the Saint M a ry's Programming Board meeting last night in Haggar College Center. It was also reported that the SMC loft policy is almost complete, and that work is continuing on the proposed parietal changes. A Keenan Revue party is also being planned. -The Observer 
Of Interest . ., 
Five faculty members in the College of Business Ad­ministration will join Father Theodore Hesourgh, University president, in CPpublic discussion of the American bishops' pastoral letter on the economy tonight at 7:30. The program will be in the Center For Continuing Education and is sponsored by Omicron Delta Epsilon, economics honor society. It is open to the public. John Houck, professor of management, will serve as the moderator of the program.-The Observer 
• 

A senior class partywill take place at H.l.'s Old Town Saloon in Niles, Mich., tonight beginning at 9. A 21 ID is re­quired.-The Observer 
It's a pizza party,and it's free. Saint Mary's junior class and Notre Dame's Walsh Hall are co-sponsoring a pizza par­ty from 5 to 6:30 p.m. in the Haggar College Center. -The Observer 

Weather 
Increasing cloudiness today with highs in the mid to upper 30s. A 30 per­cent chance of light snow with lows in the low to mid 20s. Colder tomorrow with temperatures dipping to the low to mid 20s and a 30 percent chance of snow showers. ­
AP 

The Observer-
The Observer (USPS ~99 l-4000) Is published Mon<Lay through Fri<Lay and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is pubibhed by the students of the Unlversiry of Notre Dome and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purcha.'iCd for $30 per year ( $20 per sc:· mester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer Is a member of The Associated Press. Ali reproduction rights are rccsc:rved. 
T<Jday's issue was produced by: 
Design Editor ............ Anne Long Design Assistant ........... Andy Saal Layout Staff ................. Many Typesetter .................. Busted! News Editor ........... Keith Harrison Copy Editor .......... Mary ':!_~~~~'!!! 
Sports Copy Editor ..... Larry Ramirez Features .................. Scrapped ND Day Editor ................ Alice SMC Day Editor ........... Ed Nolan Ad Design ............. Susan O'Hara Photographer ............ Phil Deeter Typist. ............... Most everyone 


'I dido't know that' 

''Be Good to Your Baby Before it is Born'' 

dpMOJ.~oQECT9!uQ_l[l95 
Public reaction is the only surprise in New York subway shooting 
Bernard Goetz seems to have struck a nerve in the American public's mind or perhaps more accurately, heart. The New York police have reported that the hotline they set up for tips to apprehend him after he shot four teen-agers who reportedly attempted to rob hime on the New York subway has been deluged by calls from people supporting Goetz and his action. Thousands of people have volunteered to donate money to pay for his legal defense. In a nation sup­posedly governed by a system of laws and courts why has the public reacted in this way to a person who has broken one of the most basic laws of our society? 
Perhaps he satisfied a longing for justice that peo­ple do not feel can be satisfied any other way. It is not suprising that Goetz did what he did, nor is it surpris­ing that the public has reacted the way it has. The first reaction to the event seems to have been, "Good, the punks got what they deserved." What is more surpris­ing is that something like this has not occurred before with this sort of magnitude. 
The people who called the plice to praise Goetz 
action seem to have felt that the justice system was not doing its job. America is one of the most power­ful countries in what is supposed to be the most civiliz­ed age this planet has ever seem. Yet in the largest city in this country, the government can't provide one of the most vital components of a civilized society -safe­ty in a public place. More than 12,000 felonies were reported in New York's subways in the first 10 months of 1984. During 1983, there were 26,808 reported felonious assaults, but there were just 727 convictions, all but 61 by plea-bargaining. 
Goetz will probably be brought to trial and accused of attempted murder. He will most likely demand and receive a trial by jury. The justice wystem, if the statements released by the mayor of New York and other public officials are any indication, seem to want Goetz to be convicted and sentenced to jail. He is to be made an example of. The justice system, and by extension, the government, don't want citizens to be taking the law into their own hands. 
Goetz's trial by jury may be what will save him, if anything does, from a particularly severe sentence. He has a constitutional guarantee of trial by a jury of his peers. The fact that the jury members must be peers of Goetz is important to the outcome of the trial. If the members of the jury are really peers of Goetz they will at least partially understand why he did what he did. They will understand the fear that often accompanies a ride on the New York subway system. If any of them have ever been mugged they will understand the extra paranoia and fear that it adds to a person. 

Mark PoHer 
Assistant News Editor 

It is not hard to understand why Goetz shot the four teen-agers who he thought were going to rob him. Fear, anger and the adrenaline that accompanies both of them can make a person do things that they would not ordinarily consider. His action cannot be condon­ed, but neither can he be absolutely condemned for it. The system has broken down and he took responsibili­ty for his personal safety. It is not right to take the law into your own hands, but under some cir­cumstances, such as an attempted robbery on a New York subway, it is easier to see how it would happen. 
What is significant about the whole incident is not that a person took the law into his own hands and shot four teen-agers who were probably going to rob him. What is significant is the public's reaction. There has been widespread approval and little condemnation of his action from the public. The government and the justice system should pay attention to this because it means that at least on a gut level there are a lot of angry people out there. They are angry because they don't believe that the justice system can provide justice and safety in a public place anymore. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not neces· sarily reflect the views of the editorial board 
or staff. 

The Observer 
Wygant Floral CO.Inc. 
··gQoweh~ fph aQQ oeeagiotlg·· 
Come in and Browse 
327 Lincolnway 232-3354 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
will be in the Alumni Room of the Morris Inn on January 29 starting at 7 pm to discuss career opportunities at Tl and making the transition to a full­time job. 
Open to Engineering, Math & Business Juniors and Seniors with Computer Science backgroufld and interest. 
Reception will follow 

• 
RESTAURANT & LOUNGE 
10331AKE SlREET NILES, MICHIGAN 616/683-7474 
a Notre Dame, Saint Mary's Tradition for over 30 years. 

JUSTASK ANYONE! 
.,-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
-

Thursday, January 24, 1985 -page 3 
APPhot6

Crash survivor 
George Lamson, Jr., one ofthree survivors ofa his mother Adrianne looks on. George Lamson, 
Galaxy Airlines plane crash which killed 69 people Sr., was also a survivor and is in intensive care at 
gives a press conference from his hospital bed as another Reno hospital. 
Aspirin warning ads to start soon 
Associated Press and the often fatal children's disease known as Reye Syndrome.WASHINGTON -The govern­The Department of Health and 
ment said yesterday that an in­Human Services said the campaign dustry-sponsored advertising cam­will include posters and warningpaign will begin next week to warn 
stickers on store shelves along with of the possible link between aspirin 
radio and television commercials. 
HEY I 

If you've been wondering how you could become more involved in this Notre Dame community or doing charity work around the area or just meeting new folks, why not join the KNIGHTS. 
* we are the oldest student organization on campus(we are celebrating our 75th year at Notre Dame) *We are the only organization with our own building that is open 24 hours to members and there are no parietals. *There are many benefits to joining the KNIGHTS if you would like to know more, 
please contact Paul at 234-4511 or Duane at 2054 
THE KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS 

YOUR BEST DEAL TO FLORIDA 
YOU DRIVE (TO THE PARTY) 
$ 
94 · 5 per room 104-4 per room 
INClUDES: 
• 
Round trip motor coach transportation to beautiful Daytona Beach (WE DRIVE Packages Only) We use nothing but modern highway coaches 

• 
FREE refreshments available on the motor coach on the way down (to begin the party) 

• 
Eight Florida days/seven endless ntghts at one of our e)(cittng oceanfront hotels. located nghton the Daytona Beach strip Your hotel has a beautiful pool, sun deck. air conditioned rooms. color TV. and a nice long stretch of beach 

• 
A full schedule of FREE pool deck parties every day 

• 
A full list of pre-arranged dtscounts io save you money tn Daytona BeCich 

• 
Travel representottves to tnsure a smooth trip and a 


goodfime 
• 
Opttonol side excursions to Disney World Epcot deep sea ftshing party cruises. etc 

• 
All taxes and trps 


WE DRIVE (THE PARTY STARTS HERE) 
~ 184·5 per room;v 194-4perroom 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION AND SIGN UP 
call 239-5136 or stop by 1.5 LaFortune, the Senior Class Office­Mon-Fri, 6-9 pm 
Open to all ND/SMC students THE GREATEST TIME-THE BEST PRICE sponsored by the Senior Class 
..................................................................................................................................................................................................... 
I 

But new aspirin labels warning of the link will not begin appearing in stores until this summer, the department said, after the flu season is over. 
The new labels will warn against the use of aspirin for children suf­fering from chicken pox or flu because of a possible association with Reye Syndrome, a rare disease that is fatal to about one of every four children who contract it. 
Aspirin products now on the shelves do not contain warnings against such use, and labels on children's aspirin even recommend use of the product to relieve the discomfort of colds or flu. The ac­tion taken by the aspirin industry does not include recall of those pro­ducts to change the labels. 
Margaret Heckler, Secretary of 
Health and Human Services, ap­
plauded the Aspirin Foundation of 
America for "its prompt and 
responsible action, which will be 
getting the message to Americans 
within a week." 
Heckler had called for voluntary 
action by the industry on Jan. 9, 
after rejecting a request for 
emergency action. 
Fountain continues to bubble 
By KIMBERLY TRENNER 
StaffReporter 
Are you wondering why the 
fountain at Saint Mary's Lake is 
still going strong at the end of 
January? 
According to Mark Cubacki, a 
groundskeeper at Saint Mary's a 
new fountain with a natural water 
supply has been installed this year 
to eliminate the danger of frozen 
water pipes. l n recent years, the 
fountain was ~hut off and students 
were allowed to skate on the lake. 
Maryann O'Donnell, director of 
student activities, said that in the 
past two years the lake had been 
cleared for skating yet few students 
used it. However, O'Donnell ad­
ds, several students are currently 
looking into the possibility of ice­
skating on the north end of the 
lake, where the ice is solid. 
Asked why the fountain remains 
operative, Cubacki replied, "Purely 
for its aesthetic beauty." He added 
that the fountain would remain on 
as long as it is operating properly . 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer Thursday, January 24, 1985 -page 4 
ND/SMC Right to Life representatives attend Washington, D.C., for national rally 
',, ~ \l~ 
..
... ,, 

r 


r 
I 
I 
~ 
, f 
r 
' 
r 
r 
r 
r 
~ 
The Observer/Mary Healy 
Twelve members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Right to Life club traveled by bus to Washington Tuesday to join approximately 75,000 others protesting abortion, on the 12th anniversary of the Roe versus Wade Supreme Court decision. President Reagan and others addressed the pro-lifers, who braved 13-degree weather in a march from the White House to the Supreme Court building. 

EASY RIDER 
TO AND FROM CIDCAGO'S CMWlE EVERY l HOURS EVIllY DAY 
United Limo 
' 

SURVIVAL IN THE VOID by John Buckley 
A brilliant and original approach to the pro­blems of our time and a clear and bold ex­pression of the changes necessary for solu­tions. this book is addressed to a small minority. concerned young adults. It will not be sold in bookstores. but is being of­fered in a limited edition to interested students at selected universities. 
Published in hardcovers at $10.50. plus $2.00 handling and postage. it is available prepaid with check or money order only from: 
PASSKEY DISTRIBUTOR P.O. BOX 1026 DEKALB. IL. 60115 
"TilE FAR SidE,T-sltiRTs by GARY LARSON AvAilAblE ExclusivEly fRoM 
GREAT MOMENTS iN EvolUTioN STYLE #104 (tee)-104 (sweat) 

Screen printed t-shlrts (tee) and sweatshirts (sweat) from "The Far Side" by Gary Larson. Available in S, M, L, and XL in cream or white shirts. T-shirts $9.95, SweatstWts $18.95. AI shirts are of the filest quality and printed in fuR color. Include $1.00 per item for shipping and handing. Not available in stores. 
1--Styte--'---•-+----+---+--+---'-'---'+--To_ta---11 t----~-~-+-~----~----IName J-----~--~-+-~-----~----1 r-----+---+--+-------l----I-----4Credh~rdll  


Total (Make checks payable to Universal Licensing Corporation. Allow 4-6 weeks for delivery.) ~ ·  


0 Check 0 Money Order 0 VISA 0 Mastercard 
t-----~-~-+-~r----~----IA~r~----------------------
Clty_______State___Zip____ f-------+---+---+-------l----1-----4 Phone II____________________ 
Signature as on credh card Explr. Date 
Send to: Far Side T ·Shirts c/o (THIS NEWSPAPER) 
Universal Licensing 1271 Avenue of the Americas Suite 3717 New York, New York 10020 
Telephone orders: 212·582-0650 
1984 Universal Press 

The Observer 
VETERANS. MAKE AUnu 
SPARE TIME PAYOFF. 
One weekend a month, you could be earning a good part-time second income. You'll be keeping up with the latest technology in your MOS, and enjoying something different once a month. 
In today's Army Reserve, an E-5, for example, with four years' experience, can earn more than $1,946 a year to start. That's for serving just one weekend a month and two weeks a year with a local Reserve unit. 
When you can spare a little time, give us a call: 
SGT Messner/Simmons (219) 234-4187 
ARMY RESERVE. BEALLYOU CAN BE. 

Thursday, ianuary 24, 1985 -page 5 
Reagan awaits Kremlin response to proposal for March arms talks 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Reagan said yesterday he is waiting for the Kremlin to reply to a U.S. proposal to meet in Geneva in early March for a new round of nuclear arms talks, but he added he doesn't believe the Soviets are dragging their feet. 
"We have only recently settled on a date that we thought would be satisfactory to us," Reagan told The Associated Press in the first in­terview of his new term. 
Asked why something seemingly so simple should take weeks to resolve, Reagan said, "We just haven't had an answer yet. ... Ob­viously if there is some reason that's not satisfactory to them, we'll continue trying to find a date." 
Two weeks ago, Secretary of State George Shultz and Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko met in Geneva and agreed the two nations would resume discussions on reducing intermediate and long­range nuclear weapons and would begin talks on how to prevent an arms race in space. But the date and place for the three-point talks were to be determined later, hopefully within a month. 
In the wide-ranging, 25-minute discussion in the Oval Office, Reagan also said: 
He has been "discussing ways of capping" the fees doctors and hospitals charge Medicare patients in an effort to hold down the rising costs of the Medicare program for the elderly and disabled. He said doctors would be free to stop serv­ing Medicare patients if they wish, adding that government social pro­grams have discouraged physicians from providing free medical care to 
NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S THEATRE presents 

of the University of Michigan
.
.. """ 
··-"J
-.-=:>
lc ••
Cc Cc • 
~ 
Two One-Act Comedies directed by Eric Fredricksen 8t Phillip Kerr 

CHARLIE THE CHlCKEN 
by N.E. Simpson A RESOUNDING TINKLE by Jonathan Levy 
All Seals· $2.00 at lhe door 
Wolhlnglon Hall 
(box olllceopens at 6:00 pm)
Frtday. January 2fi 
or call239-6134tor ,_yattona
Saturday,January 26 
Nter 6:00pm on daYI olpertonnatICe 
1:00pm 
caii239-S)II 
•
a un1que opportunity for 
Math/Science 
(Majors/Minors/Aptitudes) 


For you and for the world. Peace Corps will combine 
your education with training to prepare you for a 
volunteer position in: • Education • Fisheries • 
Health • Agriculture • Forestry or other areas. You'll 
meet new people, learn a new language, experience 
a new culture and gain a whole new outlook. And 
while you're building your future, you'll be helping 
people in developing countries learn the basics of 
technological advancement. 
See our film Jan 29th at 7 
p.m. in the tlulti-Purpose Rm./Center for Social Concerns Visit our booth Jan 29 &30th from. 9b-5 p.m. in the nemor­
lal Ll rary 
the poor on their own initiative.  
There would be "great dif­ 
ficulties" in openly aiding  
Nicaraguan rebels, as some con­ 
gressional leaders have proposed,  
because that would constitute an  
act of war under international law.  
But he restated his determination to  
continue to support "the people of  
Nicaragua who are asking nothing  
more than freedom from  
totalitarianism."  
Asked if his administration is  
considering asking for open  
assistance to the rebels when the  
congressional ban on covert  
assistance runs out Feb. 28, Reagan  
said, "I think that there are great  
diffi rulties in that."  
It is part of his strategy not to  
discuss the cases of five Americans  
who have been seized in Lebanon in  
the last year. "It doesn't mean we're  
sitting doing nothing."  
No verdict  
decided  
in libel suit  
Associated Press  
NEW YORK -The jury deliberating Ariel Sharon's lawsuit  
a~ainst Time, Im .. · adjourned Tues-"  
day without announcing a verdict  
in the Israeli general's $50 million  
libel case against the magazine.  
The panel, which began delibera­ 
tions Jan. 14 in the U.S. District  
Court in Manhattan, is trying to  
determine whether the Time article  
was published with malice or  
reckless disregard of the truth.  
Jury foreman Richard Zug sent a  
lengthy note to the judge Tuesday  
morning asking to rehear testimony  
about the confidential sources  
Time's Jerusalem Bureau used to  
supply information for the article.  
The article said Sharon had  
discussed revenge with Christian  
Phalangists before they massacred  
hundreds of Palestinians.  
Later, while lawyers for both  
sides were negotiating on what  
testimony to allow the jury to  
rehear, a second note was sent out,  
asking for more testimony, on  
changes in the wording of the  
Jerusalem bureau's report and the  
final draft of the article published  
by Time.  
"We apparently have some  
highly cerebral types on this jury,"  
said Sharon's attorney Milton  
Gould.  
The jury adjourned about 7 p.m.  
Tuesday without reaching a ver­ 
dict. Deliberations were scheduled  
to resume yesterday.  
In its first five days of delibera­tions the jury ruled for Sharon on  ..,  
two issues: that a key paragraph of the 1983 Time cover story was  ~ ..,  
defamatory and that it was false.  
To return a libel verdict,.  
however, the jurors still must find that Time published the story  
knowing it was false or with  
"reckless disregard" of whether it  
was true, then, in the second phase  
of the trial, determine if Sharon's  
reputation was injured by the arti­ 
cle.  
If the jury, which is sequesten;d,  
does not determine that Time ·  
publish the story with actual  
malice, the trial is over and Sharon  
loses his case. But the former  
defense minister has already called  
the jurors' first two findings against  
Time a "clear moral victory."  

IAMERICAN 
~CANCER 'SOCIE1Y~ 


By SARAH HAMILTON  breakdancing?  perience and the rewards of each  tonight.  She  said  she  especially  
News Editor  To protect against the expected  program,  and  to  sign  up anyone  would like to encourage freshmen  
low temperatures, the Festival will  who wants to become involved in a  and  transfer  students  at  Notre  
LEARN  IT  . . .  LIVE  IT  ...  be held in the Center's toasty-warm  group or activity.  Dame and Saint Mary's  to check  
LOVE IT!  multi-purpose  room  tonight  from  Some groups' booths will include  out the festival. "The festival is like  
That  is  what  the  staff  at  the  6:30 until9:30.  slide  presentations  of  their  ac­ a new beginning for them.  
Center for Social Concerns hopes  tivities. Visitors also can view clips  "It offers an opportunity to plug  
the students, faculty and staff at  The Festival  will  be similar  to  of  the  film  "Notre  Dame  in  into thing going on and to meet new  
Notre D.ame and Saint Mary's will  Notre Dame's activity night held at  Review"  which  deals  with  the  people immediately," she said.  
do tonigHl at the CS(;'s Activities  'he beginning of each school year.  University's peace efforts and pro­ The festival will take off with a  
Festival.  ttke that night, tonight's activities  bably  some  public  service  clips,  bang  tonight  at  6:30  when  the  
will allow  members  of the Notre  Phillips said.  breakdance  group,  "The  South  
Dame community  to  learn  about  This year's theme, "LEARN IT  Bend Uprockers," perform at  the  
what the esc is all about, examine  ... LIVE IT ... LOVE IT," Phillips  Center.  
the ·specific goals of groups  they  explained, means that when a per­ Lawrence  said  she  hopes  the  
might  want  to  join,  and  simply  son learns about something, he or  group's heavy beat and toe-tapping  
have fun on a Thursday night.  she can begin to live it, and even­ rhythm  will  encourage  the "little  
tually come to love it.  siblings" from the South Bend area  
r  "It's like a specific Student Ac­tivities night, " said Sarah Webb  "And in faith context," she said, "you do begin to love it."  to challenge from Notre  their "big siblings" Dame and Saint  
~  Phillips,  CSC  coordinator  of  Recent budget  cuts  have  made  Mary's on the dance floor.  
r  justice and peace education. "It will  organizations more eager than ever  Another  objective  of  the  
r  be a chance to get information on  for volunteers, according to Lynn  festival," said Phillips, "is to pro­ 
r r r r r r r ' r  Socia oncerns  groups that deal with service, peace and justice issues. "There is an emphasis both on recruitment, and we want people to come and have a good time." Representatives from 26 organizations, including student  Lawrence, the Center's coordinator for service and social action. Con­sequently, "there is a greater re­quest coming from colleges." Although a popular complaint is that students today aren't as willing to work for social justice or help on  vide students with a chance to see the Center in light of how they can use it." She stressed that students and groups can sign out a room in the esc (such as the coffee house, or the multi-purpose room) for infor­mal discussion or some other activi­ 
r  service/social action groups  from  a  service project  as  they  were  20  ty. Anyone interested should check  
r  Notre  Dame  and  Saint  Mary's,  years  ago,  Lawrence  denies  this  with the receptionist.  
And on a cold Thursday night in  South  Bend community agencies,  misconception.  "I  see  a  lot  of  "The  kitchen  facilities  are  also  
northern Indiana, what better way  talented  students,  sharp  people  available for student use," Phillips  
is there to warm up than to learn more about service, peace and  and programs sponsored by the esc will be on hand at tonight's  with good ideas around today," she said.  said. Students can cook meals for any large or small group they  A  
justice while enjoying some refreshments, and watching a little  festival to inform people about what each group does, to share ex- Phillips said she hopes 500 visitors stop by the  at least festival  desire. Dining available.  space  is  also  Students Anne Eilers and Liz Siegel re for Social Concerns lobby lounge bet~  

--------~ 

The Observer 
Learn it ••• Li 


esc offers variety at festival tonight 
~ esc offers service opportunities 
r 
r of many diverse types of programs
~ 
By BUD LUEPKE eight weeks. Applications for the through the Center by many out­
StaffReporter summer service projects may now side groups. ~ be obtained at the esc, she added. The most recent organization to 
r 
Nobody could ever accuse the The CSC also offers the mini­offer the opportunity to serve is r Center for Social Concerns of be­course, "The Applalachian Pro­Alpha Phi Omega, a national ser­r r ing undiversified. ject," in which students spend fall vice fraternity. The fraternity runs 
The variety of opportunities for or spring break in the Appalachian the "Ugly Man on Campus" contest 
r 
students, faculty or staff at Notre Mountains. There students study at Notre Dame during An Tostal
r 
r Dame or Saint Mary's interested in the social, economic and political week in the spring. The group also r helping out is an example of how forces which have led to the dismal organizes a blood drive, which it r the Center is working toward its conditions of that area, said coordinates in conjunction with the r philosophy of "integrating justice Phillips. residence halls. r and peace concerns into everyday Students interested in the Amnesty International also 
r 
life through the educational ex­political side of social service can works with the esc in makingr perience." take the one-credit course, "The public the plight of the world's r r According to Sarah Webb Washington Seminar." During spr­political prisoners. Another group 
r 
Phillips, coordinator for social ing break students in this program using the Center is the Big analysis for the Center, the various travel to Washinton, D.C., and Brothers/Big Sisters program. programs help people to become discuss social issues with lobby This agency matches students with
~ 
more aware of social issues and groups and officials from govern­children in the community who 
assist students who may want to ment agencies. need friendship and support. 
pursue service work after gradua­While the issues discussed differ A large group at the CSC is the 
The Observer/Carol Gales

tion, some of which is offered with each year's seminar, the issues Community for International Lay 
A volunteer from the Center for Social Concerns
through the esc. are always of current interest. Apostolate (CILA). In 1960, Notre 
Neighborhood Study Help program tutors a child in
Phillips said this year's group will Dame students founded this group 
his math at the Kennedy School in South Bend. 
The CSC also offers academic be examining the moral questions so that they might become more in­opportunities in which a student of nuclear weapons, the future of volved in community service. justice. It coordinates campus group also offers programs in five can earn course credit while learn­labor and the saga of the American This year CILA sponsors ac­events and sponsored the "Call to American cities. ing about or doing social service, Indian. tivities in five sites: Portage Manor, Peacemaking Week" held in the Operation Crossroads is an Phillips said. a county home for the elderly; Cor­fall. This spring it will sponsor eight-week work, study and travel 
Students returning form service The Urban Plunge is one of the villa House, a residence for 15 men­"Peace with Justice." program in Africa. Volunteers in projects over the summer can take most popular esc programs tally handicapped children and this program spend the summer in a the three-credit course "Theology among students at Notre Dame and adults; El Campito, a day care Senior Reflection Groups are rural village community assisting and Social Ministry." The course Saint Mary's. Students are taken center for Hispanic children; the another service the CSC offers. In with such activities as the building examines Catholic perspectives on into the inner-city of a tough, big­Justice and Peace Center, a com­this program, Notre Dame and of schools, working in clinics, and suffering, death and liberation. It shouldered American city. There munity center for low-income Saint Mary's seniors meet at the helping the community in areas of also reviews social teachings for the they experience for 48 hours the residents; and Home Visitation, home of either faculty and staff health, education and agriculture. Catholic Church. problems of poverty, injustice and one-on-one visits with the elderly in and reflect on their years at Notre Post-graduate opportunities of­
Also offered for students return­apathy that residents of the area their homes. Dame. They also confront the dif­fered by the CSC include the Holy ing from summer service projects is must deal with every day. The Council for the Retarded, ficulties they think they will ex­Cross Associates, the Jesuit, the one-credit course "Reflections Ministers and trained professionals commonly known as Logan perience when they graduate. Volunteer Corps, and Volunteers in on Service," in which students accompany the groups on the Center, is one of the largest Diocesean Action. In these pro­discuss Christian discipleship. Plunge, and most students find it to volunteer organizations on cam­These are only some of the pro­grams, a graduate may perform 
Notre Dame alumni clubs be an enlightening experience, ac­pus. In this program, hundreds of grams the CSC offers, Phillips social service work in various parts throughout the country sponsor cording to Phillips. students share their spare time with said. Other groups reach toward of the country or in a foreign na­some summer service projects Applications for this one-credit retarded children and adults. the different community and social tion for a year or more. through the Center, said Phillips. course are taken in October, she ad­The Center also offers a program needs of today's society. Featuring so many organizations "lht" se projects allow students to ded. called the Network for Peace. This The Center offers several sum­and programs, the esc is the heart learn about inner-city social work But the CSC is more than program brings together leaders mer programs to students. CILA of a large network of social educa­
and earn $1,200 toward tuition, academics, Phillips stressed. Many from various campus groups con­sponsors a summer program in Ap­tion and service opportunities, said room and board. Projects last service opportunities are offered cerned with issues of peace and palachia for its members. The Phillips. 


Thursday, January 24, 1985 -page 6 -7 
it ••• Love it! 
Student sees CSC social service as beneficial investment in future 
By MARY HARTNEY ferent he seemed from the man I student's eight weeks of service Special Writer taught this summer. and completement of a variable Rafael was one of my Spanish credit follow-up course, the 
A subdued hush fell over the students this summer. I worked Center for Social Concerns and patrons of the Columbia as a volunteer for Catholic the sponsoring Notre Dame Restaurant of Floor City, Social Services and my primary alumni club award the student a Florida. The spotlight centered job was to teach English to im­$1,100 Social Service Scholar­on the announcer, speaking migrants. ship. animated English with a lilting My teaching was a part of my If you think you might be in­Spanish accent, as he grandly Summer Service Project. Sum­terested in a Summer Service announced the evening's enter­mer Service Projects are spon­Project, drop by the Center for tainment. "Ladies and sored by th.: Center for Social Social Concerns and talk to Gentlemen, it gives me great Concerns and a Notre Dame Marty Kenahan or pick up an pleasure to introduce Luis Ortiz Alumni Club. The projects are application from the center's and his Mariachi band from designed ro serve the needy of secretary. THE APPLICA­Mexico!" the Alumni city and provide an TION DEADLINE IS 
education beyond the classroom FEBRUARY 1ST. 
As the band strolled in singing for the student. As for myself, I know the one of Mexico's famous na­Last summer there were 46 projects are worth every bit of tional songs, I focused on the projects ranging in location the time and attention they de­
. trumpet player closest to me, from Buffalo, NY to Chiapas, mand. It will be a long time Rafael. Resplendent in his crop­Mexico. Students have worked before Rafael's glow of pride at ped jacket (over a chubby belly) with battered women, abused playing for me fades from my and light blue pants with silver children, jailed sex offenders, memory. tassels running merrily down his the homeless and the hungry. 
This column is the personal
legs, he deftly played the They've helped establish health 
opinion of the author. It does 
melody. When he spied me, his care programs and have design­
not necessarily represent the belly buldged a bit more and he ed programs to curb juvenile views of the Observer's editorial played more proudly. How dif-prostitution. In return for the board. 
~e Center 'sses. The 

The Observer/Phil Deeter 

The Center for Social Concerns is located on the northeast side of campus, just behind Breen-Phillips Hall. 

Center for Social Concerns more than just old TV station 
By DAN McCULLOUGH purpose room --a room used by so The building also houses several on formal and mtormal oppor­various volunteer programs, News Editor many diverse groups and organiza­offices, a conference room, two tunities to share the center's students, faculty and staff of the tions that it would be futile to at­seminar rooms, a resource room, a facilities and resources. "In the Notre Dame community are guided The building sits inconspicuously tempt to describe it in general reception area and a library. The midst of the library, residence halls to reflect on service and Christian behind and just to the north of terms. Formerly the location for compactness of the building doesn't and classroom buildings, the center compassion. This area employs Breen-Phillips Hall. WNDU-Channel l6's nightly news prevent the esc administrators is a welcoming place for people to academic courses, workshops, 
The rectangular construction broadcast, the room now is used by from utilizing every last inch of gather," says the party line for the films and retreats to lead its could be a small warehouse, a little many diverse groups for meetings, space for use by community esc. volunteers toward service into their bank or a tiny television studio films or classes. members. Within this context, the CSC academic and professional lives. (which it was until a couple of years Also found in the esc is a But besides the physical qualities hosts University classes, group 
1 
ago). medium-sized kitchen, which can of the center building, the esc meetings and meals, educational Programs in this area include 
But it is none of these. Instead, it be used by anybody from the Notre represents a wide range of ideas, events, opportunities for prayer summer service projects, the Ap­is the Center for Social Concerns -­Dame community who wishes to question and attitudes of the many and reflection, and many other palachian service seminar, and the the busy, often-used building that use it to make anything from a cup diverse groups that meet and work events. senior reflection groups. 
1 
more than 30 groups and classes of hot coffee to a banquet dinner there. Social analysis provides com­The staff at the CSC often call home base. for 25. "The CSC is both a home for a munity members with oppor­remember the words of Dr. Albert 
Whether one is interested in help­During the warmer months, the dream and a catalyst for making tunities, such as courses, research Schweitzer when justifying their ing to put an end to world hunger, outdoor patio is open to the public that dream a reality," is a common opportunities, experimental pro­work, "I do not know where you expanding people's consciousnesses for relaxation, dining and discus­theme the center reiterates. "It grams and other programs for are going or what you will do in with current "issue" films, or just sion. kindles in every member of the those interested in serving or learn­life, but I do know this: that you taking a class in "Reflections and The center's coffee house faces Notre D ame community a burning ing about social needs. Social will never fulfill your potential or Service," the CSC is the place. out onto the grassy quad just west response to the call to serve and act analysis approaches complex con­be really happy as human persons 
Visitors to the center usually first of the Memorial Library. This justly in an independent world." temporary social issues from the until you have learned how to serve notice the "homey" atmosphere of room serves as an informal meeting The cente1 operates under the perspective of the social teachings others, especially in their human the center. Potted plants hang from place for any group of students, auspices of the University's In­of the Catholic church concerning needs, wherever you go, whatever 
1 intricate rope patterns in almost faculty or staff at Notre Dame or stitute for Pastoral and Social justice and peace. you do." every room. The walls are Saint Mary's who wish to con­Ministry. Some programs in this area in­The staff of the CSC hopes any decorated with artwork and posters gregate in a comfortable setting, a esc administrators like to clude the Urban Plunge, the interested student will stop by from around the world. Even the party room for underprivileged separate the center's functions into Washington, D.C. Seminar, and tonight's Activities Festival at the furniture is the kind one would ex­area youngsters, even if it isn't yet three groups --hospitality, social the Social Concerns film series. center to find out about the various pect to find in a comfortable living their birthday, and a refuge for the 1analysis, and social/service learn­Students interested in direct ser­groups using the center and to learn room. center's staff after a hectic day (and ing. vice can take part in the ser­more about what Social Concerns 
The center houses a multi-there are many of them). The hospitality area concentrates vice/learning area. Through is all about. 
The Observer Thursday, January 24, 1985 -page 8 
The ObS<'IL a ~otr<: Dame ottin· lo<:ato:d on tho: third floor of Lafortun<: Studo:nt Co:mer, a<:<:epts dassifkd advertising from') a.m. until 4 p.m.. Monday through friday. The Obsen•er Saint Mary's oftke. h><·att·d on the: third floor of Haggar Collegt: Cc:nter, accepts da"ifkds from 12:.~0 p.m. until -~ p.m.. Mon­day though friday. Deadline for next-day dassitleds is ~ p.m. All dassifkds must be: prepaid. c:ither in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 n·nts per five: charac­
Classifieds 
ters erda 
NOTICES 
SPRING BREAK in Daytona Beech from $89, South Padre from $78. Mustang Is· land/Port Aransas $119, Steamboat Springs skiing from $79. HURRY "Break lrorn the Books" caU Sunchase Tours toll lree lor more informa· lion 1-Boo-321· 5911 or contact a Sunchase Campus Reprt~~entative or your local Travel Agency TODAY! 

EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-70011. 
TYPING CAU CHRIS 234-8997 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TYPING JACKIE BOGGS &84-8793 

NEED TYPING, CALL DOLORES 277­8045 PICK UP AND DEUVERY 
ATIENTION DANCERS, Open auditions lor new student company are Sunday at 
7:30 PM In Regma Studio. All styles and techniques are welcome. No experience necessary!!! 
The New York Times! It's not too late to order the New York Tlm81 for campus delivery. The New York Times, the world's greeters! n8WIIIJIII)8r will be delivered to your room, ofllce, carroll, department. mailbox or any other place on campus at 30/ off the newstaand price. Contact George Devenny at 145 Stanford 2a3­
2094. 
SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS appli­cation deadline is February 1. More info at Canter for Sooal Concerns! 
Campus prayer group meets at the Bullah House at noon on Mondays. All are welcome to attend. 
ND/SMC Leaders-Specialty Sound has arrived with COMPLETE SOUND SYSTEMS and liGHT SHOWS. Now booking through the end of the sem. CALL MATI at ND3368 now for details or to book. 
Student Activities Board, "The Leader In Entertainment" presents Spring Break In Ft. Lauderdale & Daytona Beach. Have the greatest time with the best attention. We feature White Sox baseball, snorkl­lng, St. Patrick's Day parties and an Alumni Association that just won't quit. Call the Student Activities Board at 239-7757 for more Informa­tion. 
Abiogenesis Dance Collective presents a new, exciting dance com­pany on campus: Motion. Company Auditions: Sun Jan. 27 at 7:30 in Regina Hall Dance Studio (SMC) No experience necessary. Come dressed to dance. 
LOST/FOUND 

ATIENTION: LOST. at Senior Ber· 1 dar~ grey overcoat. With a brown/ black zip·ir liner. Anyone who was at the private part} Tuesday night (January 15) who ma) have aCCidently taken 11 please call me a1 2a3-t 156. or else return it to the Senior bar lost-and found. 
LOST: N.D. RUGBY LETTER JACKET BLUE AND BLACK WITH NAME Ofl. INSIDE POCKET MISPLACED Al BRIDGED'S TUESDAY EVENING OR EARlY WEDNESDAY MORNING PLEASE RETURN . NO QUESTIONS ASKED. CALl J.R. REID AT 277·7561 
LOST; TAN LUGGAGE BAG wilh blue straps; may have been left outside Regina Hall;contams mostly sweaters and jeans If found please call 283·2545. 
LOST: One tear-shaped gold eamng be­tween LeWis and the Credit Union.. If found please call Anne 2624 
LOST: Men's high school class ring before break. Silver with blue cut stone. Initials on the inside. If you have lound It, call Dave at 3049. Reward. 
Lost: My 1.0.. my driver's liscence, a11d (heavy sigh) my senior bar card all encased in that green thing for I.D.'s. Pleeae help me · I'm gening hungry! Call Mo. at3624. 
IF YOU LOST GLOVES IN ROOM 356 FITZPATRICK.CALL NAJI AT f743.PROPER IDENTIFICATION OF GLOVES IS REQUIRED. 
FOUND: IMITATION RHINESTONE NECKLACE BEHIND POST OFFICE BEFORE BREAK. CALL 277-6740 TO CLAIM YOUR PRECIOUS GEMS. 
LOST: MY DARK GREY-BLACK TWEED LONG OVERCOAT...STILLIII IF YOU FOUND IT PlEASE CALL JIM AT 283· 1156, NO QUESTIONS ASKED. LOST AT SENIOR BAR DURING THE PRIVATE PARTY LAST TUESDAY, AND I'M GETTING PRETTY DAMN COLDIII 
lost· on 12/16/84, in 116 O'Shag, "a watch with a white face, Roman numerals' and a black strap. II found, please call 2634. The watch was a graduation pres· ent and is of great sentimental value. 
FOUND: STUDENT BASKETBALl TICKETS (lOWER ARENA) AT SENIOR BAR ON THURSDAY. CALL CAROLYN AT 277-4324 TO CLAIM THEM. 
"LOST": One long, black, wool coat. If you "found" It in the Commons last Mon. night, would you please return it to the lost and Found in the Ad. Min. Bldg? If you're not. willing to do so, would you at lees! return my room key. minens or any other item you do not desire to keep? It's a COLD world out there. but I'm trying to keep a warm heart &boot it! 
LOST: Bright GREEN scarf In Cam­pus VIew parking lot or there abouts late Friday night. The bag lady coat will not be the same without II. If found please call Nancy at 3719. 
LOST: Burberry's scarf lost at Senior Bar lunch 1/17. If found please call 1079. Has great sentimental value. 
lOST: Set of keys on "Sobering Ad­vice" key chain. If found please call 1079. 
LOST: Blue NO bag. Contains 2 Sharp calculators (scientific and solar), pen­ells and pens. Lost probably In Dining Halls, Galvin, or Stepan Chern. on December 21. Prove me wrong that NO students are thieves and return to NO Lost and Found or Call Tom at 1524 after 10 am MWF or after 2:30 on weekends. 
HELP! REWARD' LOST MY CHRISTMAS GIFT' I LOST MY LADIES GOLD WATCH FRI. NIGHT. POSSIBLY AT THE SUBURBS CONCERT. PlEASE CALl WANDA at 4058.HELP! 
LOST: Key cham with 4 or 5 keys lost at Soph. Super Bowl party. Key holder is black and gold. Has 324 mail key. Call Mark at 382a if found. 
LOST: N.D. 10 CASE WITH SCHOOLID, !NO DRIVER'S LICENSE. AND OTHER VALUABLES.IF FOUND, PLEASE CON· TACT LESLIE AT: 283-4648. REWARD OFFERED. 
Lost Black Wallet. call Steve 5759 Reward 
LOST Single Strand PEARL NECKLACE on campus PLEASE CALL Jod1e 1669 
HELP!! has anyone found basketbell tick· ets lor bleacher section 102 (I think)?? PLEASE call Dave at 1245 or at 1352 
lOST: A Blue LEVI's Jean Jacket (Size 
40) al Corby's on Friday Jan. 18th. If found Please call Mike at 1223. 
LOST: MAN'S WATCH ATTHEACCOR ON THE WAY BACK TO THE MIDDLE OF THE CAMPUS. BLACK STRAPE, GOLD BORDER, BLACK FACE. PIERRE CARDIN. SENTIMENTAL VALUE. PLEASE RETURN IF FOUND. 
FOUND FOUND FOUND HEY DON'T CRY! IF YOU LOSE A GOLD IRISH RING A COUPLE OF DAYS AGO I FOUND IT, GIMME A CALL ASAP AT 4008 ASK FOR JOSUE SORRY I DIDN'T PLACED THE AD EARLIER 
LOST: I lost my student basketball ticket package at the DEPAUL game II The tick· ets were only half mine and If I don't get them back soon the other owner wil make CHICKEN CHOU·MEIN out of me: BLEACHER. SECTION 102 ROW 11 Please Help II CALL JOHN 3278 
LOST Rhinestone necklace on Sat. night, the 19. PLEASE HELP !!!! $$$$REWARD$$$$ Call Cindy at 272· 
6084 
FOUND: Grey, cream, and brown striped scarf near St. Ed's. Check Lost and Found in Ad. Building. 
lOST: A pair of NIKES (Mid-tops) Basketball shoes. White with blue and red stripes. Last seen at the mens lockerroom at the Rock. If found please call Cliff at 1436. 
LOST: Jan. 15 Blue wallet w/ GA Driver's license, military 1.0. and other valuables In or around Corby's & Bridget's. Need desperately! Call Kerry McMonigle, SMC 4322 
LOST: Retriever Collie· age: 7 years. The dog is golden with a black stripe on tail and it has black markings around eyes and muzzle. The dog's name is "Winston". If located please call 277­5828 or 272-6920. 
································································ 
lOST: Black wool coat at a party, Friday night at Turtle Creek. If found please con· tact me at 1090; NO questions asked. 
FOR RENT 

WANTED -Female housemate for a 4· bedroom horne located 10 minutes from campus. $150 per month includes utilities. 239-5930 or 291·9644 
FOR SALE 

Electric Typewriters Smith-Corona Coronet Super 12. like new at half the cost. $90 call 283­427a. 
Need two GAs for Syracuse Garne. Ca II 2073. 
HELP! Need 2 or 4 Syracuse-NO basketball tlx. Please call284-5011! 
Need 1 Syracuse stu or GA call1710 
BIG BUCKS need 4 Syracuse stud tlx call Mark 1204. 
Why RENT when its cheaper to BUY? Cozy house three blocks from campus is for sale. Call234-0465 for details. 
a· x 12' rust carpet. good condition. 1 yr. old, reg. pile. $45: Ask lor David, at 4358. 
TICKETS 

NEED SYRACUSE BASKETBALl TICK· ETS DESPRATELY!!!! PLEASE CALL 277-a497 
NEED 6 Syracuse GA's. Call Steve 1163 
NEED 2 G.A. 'S FOR SYRACUSE GAME. CAll at 2073. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED 3 SYRACUSE GA'S. WILL PAY GOOD MONEY. CALl MARY BETH AT 3723. 
HELP! Need 2 NO-Syracuse tix. Call 1570. 
NEEDED3 DAYTON TX. CALL277-8577 
NEED 4 GA'S FOR SYRACUSE GAME CALL LAURIE 1256 
I need GA'e and 1 etudenttlcket lor the February 9 SyraCUIBII"mel PIMIB call Sueat2914. 
NEED RIDE TO CLEVELAND ON WEEKEND OF FEB. 2,3. CAN POS· SIBLY lEAVE THURSDAY. CAll MIKE AT 1688. 
NEED RIDE TO U OF IlL THIS WEEKEND. CALL MARK AT 1133. 
PERSONALS 
IT WAS 73 DEGREES IN KEY WEST YESTERDAY. IT WILl BE HOTIER THAN THAT SATURDAY NIGHT AT McCANDLESS' BEACH PARTY 9PM· 2AM 
MR. GOODWENCH IS COMING!!!! MR. GOODWENCH IS COMING!!!! WAIT FOR HIM SOON 
BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN, WON'T BE AT McCANDLESS' BEACH PARTY SAT. NIGHT FROM 9-2AM. HOWEVER, HE ENCOURAGES ALL TO ATIEND... AND WHEN THE BOSS TALKS, PEOPLE US­TEN. 
BEACH PARTY BEACH PARTY BEACH PARTY BEACH PARTY BEACH PARTY McCANDLESS HALL SAT. JAN.26, 9­2AM BEACH PARTY 
SAVE MONEY!! PURCHASE YOUR TEXTS AT PANDORA'S BOOKS,937 SOUTH BEND AVE.,NEXT TO CORBY'S BAR. 233·2342. 
HUNGRY? FREE DELIVERY CALL THE YELLOW SUB AT 272-4453. MO-TH a­11 pm FR·SA 8pm-1am 
Pool Tournament Beginning Feb. 1 Signup in pool room. 
MAKE MONEY I! SELl YOUR CLASS BOOKS TO PANDORA'S FOR $$ OR CREDIT ! PANDORA'S BOOKS,937 SO.BEND AVE. 233·2342. 
A DECISION IS MADE Here ye, here ye. let all men and wornen know by these presents. that the High (4 Stories) Court hes reached a decision es to the pon· derous and weighty maner of who is the cutest of them all. Or at least the cutest of the two. Let it be known that, in a unani· mous decision, the verdict was rendered that Htebazile Pmakrevah. of lewis Prov­ince is the cuter of the two under consider­ation. Merry. merry Chnstmes. to you Htebazile. Love, The Second Ranked 
P.S. Do you ever read the classifieds? 
SOPHOMORES!!!! Skating .Party· Wednesday. Jan. 23. at the ACC rink. From 10:15 to 12;15pm Only $1 for rentals; come and bring your friends' Sponsored by the Class of ·a7 
SOPHOMORES!!! "Break your New Year's Resolution" Study Break Upstairs at LaFortune from 11 to 12, Thurs., Jan 24. Free Bonnie Doon Sundae Ber and a pertormance by a belly-dancer will be featured. Come celebrate the New Yearll! Sponsored by the Class of '87 
lntro. to Computer Syeteme 
FOR SALE: Business Computer Systems textbook by Kroenke, along with study guide. A $30.00 value .... get it today for $18.00. Call Mark at 2045. 
JOllY OLD ST.NICHOLAS LEAN YOUR EAR THIS WAY DON'T YOU TELl A SINGLE SOUL WHAT I'M GOING TO SAY THANK YOU AND HAVE A MERRY CHRISTMAS!????? 

Hey King Riser, tell us. After you leave this place, are you really going to get heated everyday Ill 
Just probing my dear!!!!!! 
COLOR MY WORLD COLOR MY WORLD COLOR MY WORLD COLOR MY WORLD COLOR MY WORLD POP FARLEY WEEK ·as POP FARLEY WEEK ·as POP FARLEY WEEK '85 WED: 
'MOVIE THURS: NAZZ NITE FRI: HALL DINNER SAT: DANCE DANCE DANCE 'Til 3 AM COLOR MY WORLD COLOR MY WORLD 
To NJ guys on Ohio Turnpike: Thanks for the cocktail offer! Sorry we had to run I The PAgals. 
Ted Smith for God. Remember. cleanli· ness Is next to Tedllness. 
ASPEN!I!ASPEN!!!ASPEN!!! 
SPRING BREAK '85 CALL MIKE AT 283·3573 OR LARRY AT 2a3-3630 FOR INFO. 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UOUOR, CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student Loans $20·200 1 percent Interest 30 Days Basement LaFortune 11 :3().12:30 M·F 
Campue Crueadelor Crom announces that two guest lecturers will be here this Friday. Famous cleric/lighter Phoenix and the awesome Sven Subotai will be speaking on Gnomes : Genocide vs. Euthanasia Lecture starts at midnight. Call Daggs tor details (216) 666-3208. 
Looking lor a slam? I play a short club. RSVP Bart> 
LOST: MAN'S WATCH BLACK STRAPE, GOLD BORDER AND BLACK FACE. SENTIMENTAL VALUE CALL 1504 
CCCChhhhhyyyaaaaaaaammmm· ppppiiioooonnnsss!l 
So Baker, did you ever remember what she looked like??? 
Yo Flo& B.O.: O.C. is theplacetobenext year. 
SPRING BREAK IS COMING ........ ARE YOU READY? I AVOID THE RUSH AND PLAN NOW FOR A WONDERFUL WEEK IN STEAMBOAT SPRINGS, COLORADO...S. PADRE 15­LAND .... CORPUS Clq!ISTI...OR, DAYTONA BEACH! PLENTY OF REASONABLE PACKAGES ARE WAITING. CALL RENE FOR MORE INFO.AT1190. 
Hey Christy S., welcome back to the tundra. When does the permafrost thaw? 
Beth, You're Whelping up the wrong tree. ·Conglomerated Madmen 
I'd like to buy a vowel, please. 
AND!, We love you. 
Ramirez Is the culprit! 
Larry, You say all the right things. the Loved one 
AAAAAAAAHHHHHHH!!! 
DeMaio & Vickers 
"Tell Chris I want to be on layout staff." T.L.O. 
I paid for this personal. .. not. 
the Loved one Is on the loose ... 0 
Dear Gumby, I tried to stop them from driving your car but I couldn't. I'm sorry' I'm sorry! I'm soooooo sorry....l'm not sorry! Hahaaaaaaaaaaaa! Love and Kisses. The Mulch Pile. 
$.aa a day color TV rental (1 month minimum)-19 Inch portable -251nch console fast delivery · free service . ask for special spring semester discount color city tv 259-7661 or 7662. 
Yes, I'd like the Jumbo Denny's Com­bo, please. And a large apple juice. 
Wanted: A.E.R. for lots of D.M.S.R. with T. O'C forever! 
Ladles & Gentlemen, for the 1st time ever Student Activities Board Is offer­Ing 2 trips to Florida! The fun & Sun will be great. Be smart, call 239-7757, and go with the Student Activities Board! 
Need book by James Ingram entitled International Economics. call Dave 4512. 
Parents need place to rent grad wkend. May 19 Any ideas? 256-6676 DAVE 
you just want to get rid of me, don't you, Jeff? 
someone call up Phil 
WANTED: Chicks to drive us everywhere. Must be 21 and love beer. Call Robert X. Planet 4115. 
For the greatest time, go with the Stu­dent Activities Board to Daytona and Ft. Lauderdale for spring break. The sun will be fun and the heat will be hot. We feature white sox baseball, snorkling, St. Patrick's Day parties, and an alumni organization that won't quit. Call the Student Activities Board at 239-7757. 
Debbie did Days Inn IV 
Zarfs 
Days Inn IV The Marathon Party 
Scali, watch where you aim your 
fish bowl! Like a Virgin . The Party 
Guests. Who has the nicest 'stach: 
"Someone." Zeke got zipped. Who 
broke the toilet? Surprise hockey 
guests. Bog, why do you have the 
carpet imprinted on your face? 
Erotica Zark gets secret personal. Did 
you watch Jeopardy? I'll take 
desserts for $300. Hosts stranded. 
Days lnnV, soon!! 
Ted Smith is a legend In his own mind. 
WANTED: Guitarists and /or singers, males and females, for Lewis Hall Sunday Mass. Interested? Call Lisa 2665. 
Logan Volunteers: Hawaiian theme Dance Friday Night, 7:30 to 10. Regular Rec Saturday, 9 to 11:30 a.m. Be there Aloha!!! 
How many WVFI staff members does it take to screw a lightbulb?! 
Hey! For those who haven't seen already -It's Peggy Hess's birth­day!! If you see her. please give her a hard time. Thank you, Her Friends. 
Whatever happened to~he maneating monster at N.D.? He starved to death. 
Spanish Tutor available, call Dora 272-9440. 
Dom's Taxi: Free ride from C.V. to 
N.D. If Dom can Blow Chow on you. Snickers Man . . Can we eat your bar??? 
Figaro Figaro Figaro 
George, Billy and Bob, When can we rneet you? Patti, Micki and Maude 

. The Observer Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Editor-in-Chief. . Bob Vonderheide Business Manager. . ....... Dave Tatclet Managtng Editor ... Mark Worscheh Controller . . ........Dave Stephen itch 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the News Editor ............. Sarah Hamilton Advertising Manager . Anne Culligan University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Editor .. Dan McCullough CirculatiOn Manager .. Jeff O'Neill reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as Saint Mary's Editor ... Anne Monastyrskt Systems Manager. . . .. Mark B. Johnson accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion Sports Ed1tor. . Michael Sullivan Production Manager. . Chris Bowler of a maJOnty of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column Vrewpoint Editor ..... Dave Grole Project Manager . . . . .. Amy Stephan present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the Features Editor . . ..... Mary Healy community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Photo Editor. . ... Pete Laches Founded November 3, 1966 is encouraged. 
The Observer Thursday, January 24, 1985 -page 9 

Freshman Sandy Botham sparked the Irish to a big win in a North Star Conference opener against Detroit on Saturday, as she came off the bench to score 21 points and grab 14 rebounds. The freshman is Notre Dame's fourth leading scorer, averaging seven points a game. Larry Burke has a feature on Botham at left. 

By LARRY BURKE 
Sports Writer 
Some players take longer than others to find their groove. Unfor­tunately for the Lady Titans of the University of Detroit, Notre Dame's Sandy Botham found hers in Calihan Hall last Saturday after­noon, and the results were devastating. 
The Irish freshman forward ex­ploded for a career-high 21 points and 14 rebounds as Notre Dame us­ed a powerful inside attack to hand Detroit its fourth consecutive loss, 76-62. The victory raised Notre Dame's record to 8-6, 1-0 in the North Star Conference. For Botham, it was satisfying to finally turn in the kind of performance of which she is capable. 
Botham's dominant performance against Detroit confirms the belief of Irish Coach Mary DiStanislao that the 6-2 freshman could indeed 
be a productive player on the col­lege level. It was this potential that made DiStanislao confident to give Botham a starting assignment in
*Baby Huey is 
Notre Dame's season opener at Tennessee. The freshman respond­
sooo Big on his 
ed well, contributing 13 points in 27 minutes of a 62-57 Irish loss. 
21st birthday! 
Over the next five games, Botham averaged about nine points and 17 minutes per game, as the Irish evened their record at 3-3. But after a poor performance against Northern Illinois on Dec. 12, in which she scored just two points in 11 minutes, Botham found herself out of the starting lineup, in favor of a senior, Mary Beth Schueth. Over the next four games she scored a total of just 10 points, never playing more than 13 minutes. The Irish lost three of those games, and fell to 5-6. 
DiStanislao gave Botham another chance on Jan. 9 with a start against Maryland, but the freshman scored just four points in 22 minutes. Botham started the next game, on Jan. 14 against Illinois-Chicago, ·but had only two points in 23 minutes. Notre Dame won both of those games and was 
starting to get back on track, but Botham's season was starting to go downhill. When the Irish headed to Detroit last Saturday, she found herself back on the bench. 

"Being taken out of the starting lineup affected my confidence a lot," says the Madison, Wis., native. "But every day before prac­tice the coaches would talk to me, telling me that they still had con­fidence in me, and that they knew I 
Happy Birthday 
CARNIVAL SALE 
Tim!!i' 
Sweaters and accessories 25%-40% off earrings, bracelets & resortwear 25% off 

*Love, * Sunday 12·5 Mishawaka 
Quad304 
Help Wanted 

BUILD YOUR SKILLS TO BOOST YOUR SCORE! PREPARE FOR: 
LSAT 
Test-N-Tape library Reinforcement Test Homestudy Packet 
Classes starting Sun., Jan. 27 
I 

1117 E. South Bend Ave. 
Botham starting to realize potential for Irish women's basketball squad 
Stanley Kaplan Center 10 hours/week Call Beth at 272-4135 
AHention Female Students: 
The New York Times is the only morning newspaper that delivers directly to your room on campus. Don't you deserve as good a service as male students receive? The New York Times thinks you do! (If you do too, contact George Devenny at 
283-2094 145 Stanford) 

THE TIME HAS ARRIVED!!! 

We need 300 of the Best Students from Notre Dame, Holy Cross and Saint Mary's to assist us in this Notre Dame Student Tradition. 
JOBS 
Waiters -Waitresses -Laborers -ExJ'Jediters 
Sign in with: Virdeen Rupert Jean Wiley Pat Dillman Delores Wydrzynski 
UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICES UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
-1984 Ivy Award Winner ­
-South Dining Hall (Accounting Office) -South Dining Hall (Basement) -Huddle -North Dining Hall (Mgr's Ofc) 
could play well. Than I just realized that it doesn't matter if I start or not. I just want to contribute." 
Botham made a major contribu­tion to Notre Dame's win last Saturday, hitting on 9-of-14 field goals and three-of-four free­throws, as well as grabbing five of­fensive rebounds. More important­ly, her confidence had returned, and the pressure to produce was removed. 
"They didn't take me out of the starting lineup so much because my quality of play dropped off," notes Botham, "It was really a problem with my confidence. They took me out of the lineup because I didn't have my confidence --I was afraid to shoot; it was weird the way my confidence went way down. But before the Detroit game I had two really good practices, and I said to myself, 'I know I can go out and play just as well as everybody else,' 
I just wasn't playing up to my potential. 
"In the Detroit game, I just played. I wasn't really thinking, I was just in there to do what I had to do. I didn't have the pressure, whereas before I always felt pressure, from coaching, when I was starting. And I thought that if I did something wrong, they were go­ing to take me out. But against Detroit, if I did something wrong, l didn't have to dwell on it, I just kept playing and didn't really think about it. I just kept working and that's why I played so well." 
It has taken 14 games, but Botham is starting to find out where she best fits into the scheme of things for this 1984-85 Notre Dame team that is aiming for a North Star Conference title and an NCAA tournament berth. 
"After the Detroit game, I realiz­ed that I like coming off the ben­ch," she says. "I see myself as a strong rebounding forward, and if Carrie (Bates) is having a bad game or if Mary Beth is having a bad game, I can come in and pick up the slack. I always want to be helping out. I don't want to be the force right now, I just want to be the person that can keep our team strong. I don't see myself as 'the dominant ND power forward.' I just see myself as a hard working player who helps out off the ben­ch." 
Botham attracted plenty of atten­tion coming out of high school. She was heavily recruited in the .Big Ten, but her choices eventually nar­rowed down to Notre Dame or In­diana University. Some timely ad­vice, however, helped her make her decision. 
"Someone once told me that, to choose a school, you should think, 'What would happen if you went to that school and broke your leg? Where would you want to be education-wise?"' Botham remembers. "And I thought 'How can I give up an opportunity to go to a school like Notre Dame?' So I chose Notre Dame because of the academics, but also because of Mm-y D. She's a good coach who knows her stuff." 
"Sandy has a world of potential," says the Irish coach. "There are some games where we'll call upon her to be a dominant scorer, and there· are other games where she'll have to perhaps work so hard defensively that she may not have the opportunity to score as much. But she's a good team player and I know that she's going to do whatever it is that she has to do, not only to be a better player but to help the team." Now that she's found her groove, Botham's good times may be just beginning. 
Thursday, January 24, 1985 -page 10
The Observer 
she 

Bonny helps ND diving team to impressive start 
scores of three judges and the "As a new person to the team, "He's amazing to watch," degree of difficulty of the dive. with such a background in diving, said. "That sort of diving really in­"Thirty-five and above is a good she is a stimulus to the other divers, spires you. score for a dive," said Bonny. said Stark. "They respect her 
"I heard someone asked him once "They score much harder here than talents, and she in turn displays as if his diving gave him a sense of fly­in high school, but the competition strong sense of competitiveness. 

ing through the air. You know is better too. Andrea is outgoing, a real support what he said? He said every new "The self-discipline I have ex­to the other team members." 
dive felt like a new fall, and that he • perienced in my training here has Bonny is enjoying her first year was scared before each attempt. I been good for me, both in the pool at college. A biology major from Ieel like I can really relate to his and in the classroom. I also enjoy Columbus, Ohio, she chose Notre feelings there." 
the team atmosphere because there Dame over Cornell because she felt is no competition among team­less pressure · and competitiOn Bonny, her diving teammates, mates. Everybody supports ever­academically. She has a sister who and the entire swim team take to body else." competes in synchronized swimm­the road today for tomorrow's meet 
According to Coach Dennis ing, and is currently a senior at at St. Bonaventure. On Sunday, the Stark, Bonny is a promising Northwestern. Bonny also admits Irish swimmers will be in Boston to athlete, and an inspirational addi­to an admiration for superstar take on teams from Holy Cross and tion to the team. diver Greg Louganis. Providence. 
BANKING••• 

ON CAMPUS AT SAINT MARY'S 
1st Source Bonk's office, located at Saint Mary's College in Haggar College Center, offers free checking to Saint Mary's and Notre Dome students and faculty. In addition, this office brings you the convenience of 24 bonking 
locations to serve youI 

Banking Hours-Monday through Friday 
Mon. thru Thurs. -11:30 a.m.-3:30p.m. Friday -11:00 a.m.-4:00p.m. ~ source 
Join Michiono's 1stTeom ~Bank for unsurpassed bonking service! Member F.D.I.t;. 
By DAVID WILSON 
Sports Writer 
An integral, but perhaps not so obvious, component of any varsity swimming team is the diving squad, and in the case of the Notre Dame women's team, the diver to watch is freshman Andrea Bonny. An energetic and determined athlete who resides in Pasquierilla West, Bonny has found continued success on the low and high boards. 
"I like performing on the high board again," she says. "It really is my preference, and in high school there is only low board competi­tion." 
Bonny, along with teammates Colleen Ambrose and Betsy Laflamme, has launched the diving squad into an impressive beginning for the season. Her first collegiate competition, a relay meet againt Saint Mary's, Xavier, Valparaiso, Butler, and the University of Il­linois at Chicago, brought her first­place honors in high-board perfor­mance, while the following home meet against Western Ontario pro­duced victories on both the low and high boards. In three meets since, Bonny has netted three second­place performances on the low board, and two firsts and one se­cond place performance on the high board. 
"I prefer the dual meets as op­posed to the relay meets," says Bonny. "We compete as in­dividuals, and yet we really are one composite team." 
In dual meet competition, Bon­ny explains, each diver is required to perform six dives: five optional, and one required as clet~>rmined by the roll of the die. The required dives can be either front, back, reverse, inward, or half-twist dives, with the optional dives being varia­tions thereof. In advanced competi­tion, such as conference and regional meets, the divers are re­quired to perform II dives: six op­tional and all five required dives. Dives are scored according to the 
Calvin defeats Saint Mary's 
The Saint Mary's swim team Rafferty finished first in both dropped an 82-49 decision last the 50-yard and 200-yard night to Calvin College of backstroke. Joyce Murtaugh Grand Rapids, Mich. came from behind to land se­
Two Saint Mary's swimmers cond place in the 200-yard registered a pair of victories in freestyle event the meet. Penny Pancrantz won The Belles next competition the 200-yard freestyle and the will be at Albion College on Fri­500-yard freestyle, while Megan day 
***********************************~ 
: The New York Times i 
: and l : Notre Dame: l * A National Newspaper for a ·** * National University * 
*~ (For campus delivery ofthe Times contact * ~ ~ George Devenny at 2094--145 Stanford) ~ 
~*********************************i 
SENIOR BAR 
Thursday Jan 24 

"Cheers and Beers" "Blues and Booze" 
Friday Jan 25 

25~ Beers 
Saturday Jan 26 Rill Murray 
Movie Night 

THEEARLY ~ BIRD... /:SC/  
PREPARE FOR: Classes starting Sun., Jan 27  
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-4135  

~4(Jt~C3L~---------------------------------------T-h_u_rs_d_a_y,_J_a_n_u_ar_y_2_4_,_19_8_s
___p_a_ge---11 

Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 

Jeff Millar & Bill Hinds 

Campus 
* 
4 p.m. -Microbiology Seminar, "Excited State Geometry Change and Exciton Splittings in BI­Chromorphic Molecules," K. Bhattacharyya, Notre Dame, Radiation Laboratory Conference Theater. 

* 
4:30 p.m. -Mathematical Colloquium, "Dif­ferential Geometry and Intersectional Theory on Arithmatic Surfaces," Henry Gillet, University fo of Chicago, Room 226, CCMB. 

* 
6:30 -9:30 p.m. Social Concerns Festival, Representatives from peace, service, and justice groups, live music, break dancing, and refreshments, CSC Multi-Purpose Room. 

* 
6:30 p.m. -organizational Meeting, Tri-State Area ND Students Group, upstairs CSC. 

* 
7 p.m. -Judicial Council Meeting, 124 Hayes­Healy. 

* 
7,9,11 p.m. -Film, "The Maltese Falcon", Engineering Auditorium, $1.00. 

* 
7:30 p.m. -Meeting, Fellowship of Christian Athletes, CSC. 


TV Tonight 
6:00p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 
6:30p.m. 16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBS Evening News 7:00p.m. 16 M*A*S*H 22 Three's Company 7:30p.m. 16 Barney Miller 
8:00p.m. 16 Bill Cosby Show 
28 Movie 
34 34 Front 8:30p.m. 16 Family Ties 9:00p.m. 16 Cheers 
34 Mystery 9:30p.m. 16 Night Court 
10:00 p.m. 16 Hill Street Blues 22 Knots Landing 28 20/20 34 Masterpiece Theatre 
ll:OOp.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 Movie 
Bl00t11 Connty Berke Breathed 
ACROSS 1 Night flyers 5 Giggle sound 9 Custody 
13 Dismounted 
14 City In Japan 16 Old 17 Song refrain 18 Tlberlus' 
tongue 
19 Noone 20 St. George's 
lance did It 23 River In Eng. 24 Lamprey 25 Not neg. 
28 Ornamental 
work 32 Opponent 35 Not as wet 37 Guide 

The Far Side Gary Larson 




21 Additional 22 Sp. king 25 Become confused 26 Liberates 27 Flutelike 
Instruments 
56-account (never) 57 Penny 54 Fasting period 58 -Raton, Fla. 59 Roman road 
55 Cut short 
60 Cozy place 
Wednesday's Solution 
38 Level 39 David's sling· 
shotdldlt 42 Lecher's look 43 Russ. river 44 Consent 45 Before tee 46 Secluded 
place 46 Goof 
49 Distress signal 50 After deduc· tlons 52 Sparrow's arrow did It 61 VIcinity 
62 Man-made fiber 63 Memo 64 War vehicle 65 Fr. river 66 Frosts 67 Punta del ­68 Kitchen Items 69 Wagon 

DOWN 1 Illegal 
pitcher motion 2 Russ. range 3 Cash drawer 4 Trite 
5 VIse or tongs 6 Coupd'­7 "What -God 
wrought?" 
8 Great lake 
9 Klellsone 10 Eager 11 Dlv~rce city 
12 Paradise 15 Cook meat less thoroughly 
29 Nimble 30 Chest wood 31 Two underpar 32 Blaze up 
brightly 33 Horse opera 34 Anesthetic 36 Alwaysto 
poets 

38 Trifle 40 Weld 41 Subsequently 46 Caviar stuff 47 Foot joints 
49 Quench 51 Quinine beverage 


© 1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
This week at t~e Engineering Aud. THURSDAY FRIDAY AND SATURDAY 
1

"The feel-good movie of 1983:' 
R1chard Corliss TIME MAGAZINE 
The Maltese Falcon 

700 9:00 11:00 7:00 9:15 11:30 

~--------------------------------------------------~-----------------------­
Thursday, January 24, 1985 -page 12
S~orts 
Barlow, Rivers pace Irish to victory over Dayton 
Colbert's 22 in vain as Royal plays key reserve role for ND 
By ERIC SCHEUERMANN d to its feet with 14 minutes left in Sports Writer the second half. Defensively, the Irish held the 
The Notre Dame men's basket­Flyers to 49 percent shooting from ball team's 66-61 win over Dayton the field. Center Dave Colbert hurt last night wasn't pretty, and it the Irish with 22 points, but Notre didn't please Coach Digger Phelps, Dame succeeded in holding but it was nevertheless a crucial everyone in check. step along the path the Irish hope to Phelps was especially pleased take to the NCAA tournament. with the play of Royal, who has 
become more of a force underneath 

With the win, the Irish raised in the last few games. The 6-7 for­their record to 9-4, and will leave ward used his quickness to score 13 on a high note to face the Universi­crucial points, and also pulledty of Maryland on Saturday. A loss down four rebounds. 
only would have lessened Irish "Royal has been in a good offen­
hopes for a tournament bid even sive groove lately," said Phelps,
further. The victory certainly was impor­"Where he's not afraid to go to the hole and score. And now he's alsotant, but that does not detract from got confidence on the foul line.
the fact that the Irish almost gave "He's just been playing ag­the game away by turning the ball gressively lately, and he knows heover 19 times and making countless can play on the front line. I thoughtother mistakes. 
(Tim) Kempton was having a bad "I was really concerned going in­night, and if Kempton and (Jim)to the game," said Phelps, "Because 

Dolan aren't doing it, Royal's going Dayton has such good balance. I 
into the game." 

thought we had to be the aggressor, 
Royal also appeared pleased with and we started out that way. 
his fine performance. 

"But then we beat ourselves again, which has been typical of 
"Coming into tonight with this team. We're 13 games through 
Dayton," said Royal, "We knew we the season, and it's time that that 
had to win. I was glad I had the stops and we move from that spot." chance to contribute, and 1 
was happy with my performance. I've Although the game was mistake­wanted to get into double figures,
With players like Jim Dolan doing the job, Toney was in foul trouble for most of the game, 
filled, it did have its bright spots and now that I'm over the hump,
Dayton star Sedric Toney was held in check in last and nelled just four points as the Irish won,66-6l. 
for Notre Dame fans. The Irish I'm on my way." 
night's battle of the Independents at the ACC. Eric Scheuermann has the game story at right. 
shot 55 percent from the field for Although not overly impressed 
the game, including a sparkling 67 with the play of his charges last 
percent in the first half, when they night, Phelps expressed his hap­
jumped out to a 34-25 lead. They piness with the spirit of the stud­continued to enjoy success from the ent body, comparing it to en­foul line, shooting at an 87 percent thusiastic student bodies of the clip from the charity stripe. glory years. 
Hockey team ends losing streak as 
McNeill's big night stings Foresters 
"They're a very good free throw "I just want to say that the stu­By ED DOMANSKY Reilly added his second tally of co-captain Bob Thebeau and Steve shooting team," said Dayton coach dent body's been super," said
the evening at 14:38 on another Ely. Don Donoher. "That goes hand-in­
Sports Writer 
Phelps. "This student body reminds 

powerplay to seal the victory. glove with the delay game, and they 
The best Irish scoring chance me of the student body 10 years ago 
Losing is never fun. It tends to 're strong in that department. We
Co-captain Brent Chapman came on a five-minute powerplay at when they were juiced up. They're 
cause disappointment and a loss of just couldn't get over the hump at
started off the game's scoring at 6:19 of the period when Lake just really into it and they've done hope. Attt:r eight straight defeats the end. Notre Dame was very con­
8:09 of the opening period. The Forest's Randy Williamson receiv­an outstanding job for us at everythe Notre Dame hockey locker­sistent throughout." 
goal, Chapman's 24th of the ed a game disqualification penalty home game this year. 
room had not been a happy place. Forward Ken Barlow had 
season, was also the 93rd of his for butt-ending. The powerplay ac· "We lost to DePaul, and they
But the scene was different last another fine game, leading the Irish 
career and allowed him to overtake companies the ejection and in the come back here tonight because night. Everyone happy.
was The Ian Williams for third place on the five minutes, the Irish failed to with 19 points. Freshman sensation they know what Dayton means to Irish had finally ended their long 
Notre Dame career scoring chart. score. A partial breakaway by David Rivers chipped in 17 points us. The spirit and enthusiasm justwinless streak with a convincing 6-3 
Mooney with I :50 left in the advan­and contributed five assists, in­brings back a lot of memories." victory over Lake Forest. The first period featured tage was the closest Notre Dame cluding one fast-break pass to With the students doing their "It was a long time in coming," sporadic play by both teams. Each could come. Willett was able to sophomore Donald Royal for a two part, the team appears ready to do said a happy Irish head coach Lefty had difficulty controlling the puck. 
stear the puck wide. -handed slam that brought the crow the same. 
Smith. "The kids were tight in the The Irish were happy, however, 
beginning, but I think it was just a to emerge with a 1-0 lead thanks to 
matter of getting going." Chapman's goal which in itself was 
Freshman Mike McNeill paced in keeping with the style of play in the Irish attack with two goals and the period. three assists. Chapman appeared to stumble 
In the net, junior Marc Guay and lose his balance after trying to looked superb in turning away 22 keep from going offsides. But it shots to earn the victory. Several of worked to his advantage as he end­his saves stood out more than ed up on the receiving end of a others and were quite important to McNeill swipe at the puck. Chap­the Notre Dame cause. man then let a slapshot fly from the 
top of the right circle. 

"Guay really sparkled us," said Smith. "He made some saves that 
Guay looked sharp three times in 
you can't fault the goalie for if they the period. He stopped Steve Pin­go in, but they were the kind of ciak's wrist shot from point blank saves that we've been looking for just I :46 into the game. At the 4:40 over our current streak. They help mark, Guay turned away Peterkeep a team in the game." 
Krawchuk, who emerged untouch­The Irish (6-14) utilized the ed from a face off in the Notrepowerplay to do most of their Dame end. With only 40 secondsdamage. They capitalized four remaining in the first period, Guay times on eight opportunities. 
again came up big when he stopped The man advantage paid its big­Marty Wittmer on a breakaway.
gest dividends in the third period 
when Notre Dame scored all four The Irish play broke down 
powerplay goals. somewhat in the second period 
r 
The most impressive use of the enabling the Foresters (10-5) to man advantage came when the Irish score twice. connected twice within 40 seconds Kevin Collins made it 1-1 at 4:14 ~··-· to break a 3-3 tie. Tom Mooney got of the second period. But Notre 


what proved to be the game-winner Dame regained its lead, 2-1, I:51 Defenseman Bob Thebeau clears the puck out of at 5:57. McNeill's second goal of later as McNeill tapped the puck the Notre Dame zone in last night's game against the night then provided the Irish past Lake Forest netminder Gary Lake Forest at the ACC. The junior co-captain with a two-goal cushion. Willett after some nice passes from 







