av~n; ?iksan 50854

pec~a ~? ections 
~moria. _ r:BfJ; 
Inside: Irish Extra 
otre ")rune IN 556 
/ 
/ ~ 
.
.
. 


Leary exhorts students to 'question authority' during campus lecture 
By FRANKJ. MASTRO four traditions of thinking -the oral StaffReporter tradition, the feudal tradition, the in­dustrial tradition, and the new age. 
Timothy Leary, speaking before a According to Leary, the new age capacity crowd at Washington Hall began in 1946 with the end ofWorld last night, encouraged the audience War II. The birth rate in the Western to think for themselves and to ques­industrial countries doubled bet­tion authority. ween 1946-64. 
"It's five key words. I'd like to "The av~rage 50s kid experienced laser these words into your brain. more realities, surrealities and hal­TFYQA. Think for yourself, question lucinations by watching the tube," authority," he said, making his first said Leary. campus visit since 1978. "I see nothing wrong with 
"A lot of things have changed in Yuppies -young urban professionals. 15 years, but not my message. I'm a What's the opposite of that? An old cheerleader for change:" rural amateur? That's Jesse Helms. 
Leary's witty remarks and sharp When the going gets tough, the criticisms kept the audience laugh­tough turn pro," he said. ing for a good part of his two hour He encouraged the audience to sit oration. down at the feet ofauthority and ask 
"I have and continue to use mind­questions likc,'What's going on, altering drugs," he said,"but, I use man?' "intelligent authorities love to them prudently, cautiously, with a be questioned•. but many authorities great deal ofplanning." are not intelligent. Many authorities 
"Everything you hear about drugs get pissed off if you question them," is propaganda. Drugs are a matter of he said. He said seventy percent of the people today believe a society
"I see nothing 
should think for itself, but wrong with added,"Ninety percentofthe people in power now don't want us to think 
Yuppies -young for ourselves." 
"America is the hope ofthe world.urban profes­All the european and middle eastern countries know it," said Leary. sionals. What's He also commented on Cat­holicism, stating,"The Catholic
the opposite of 
religion is less dangerous and more hopeful than any other religion. It
that? An old rural 
embraces everybody."amateur?1b.at's All of the tickets for last night's lecture were distributed in an hour
Jesse Helms." earlier this week. Outside Was­hington Hall, people were offering money for the tickets, which were 
choice, You have to think for your­free ofcharge. self." "You're talking about a junior 
Leary's latest venture has been Springsteen," said Leary. into the world of computer After the talk, Leary attended a programming. His first program, reception in the LaFortune Student "Mind Adventure" is slated for Center. release Nov. l. Yesterday afternoon, at 12:30, a 
"The word 'computer' shouldn't crowd ofapproximately 500 people scare you," said Leary. "The com­gathered at the Fieldhouse Mall puter is a tool, an instrument for patio to hear Leary give a preview of thinking." last night's lecture. 
He predicted that within the next Leary stressed his principle of two to three years there will be a thinking for yourself and question­genre of books coming out on inter­ing authority and his basic message active psychometrics on computers. ofhuman freedom. "It's a mind mirror. It allows you to Leary also appeared in the "Death dissect your thoughts," he said. and Dying" philosophy class yester­
Leary had four chairs behind him day morning and the "Passage to In­on stage, intended to represent the dia" English class in the afternoon. 
Timothy Leary entertains students yesterday af­Leary later addressed a capacity crowd at Was­ternoon during a concert on tbe Fieldhouse Mall. hington Hall. Story at left. 

ND kicks kegs from lots 
By LYNNE R. STRAND "The hallmark word is moderation, Because of an inebriated f.ut, a StaffReporter not abuse. We want to create the woman broke her leg and filed suit atmosphere ofa picnic." against the University. The Univer­Uke the rest of the Notre Dame The letter to permit holders sity won the first court decision, but campus, Green Field will be much states,"The University is legally re­three judges later ruled a re-trial this more dey this football season. quired to be concerned with summer. The University lost this 
The new stadium parking lot monitoring safe and proper crowd decision and awarded the woman rules, released last week, prohibit control and behavior, not only in the the damage compensation she had kegs on the parking lot grounds and stadium, but in the parking lots as requested. the tailgating areas. well." The letter was sent this week, "Ours is a landmark decision," 
Since losing a major lawsuit this along with parking passes. said Corrigan. "Any event with a summer, Notre Dame is taking a One new rule states,"Large parties parking lot has looked at the deci­much stronger stand "to eliminate requiring the use of tents· must ob­sion and is concerned with it. mind, any possibility of the abuse and tain prior approval from the Office With that in mind, we must amplify privileges of others," says the letter of the Business Manager." Another our rules ofcontrol. We will be care­to permit holders. says,"Uniformed security officers, fully scrutinized." 
"We have an obligation to do mounted sheriffs posse, lot super­"If we condone large parties, we what's right for the University. We visors, as well as roving patrol cars can be held for liability. We're vul­should be able to tell people they'll will be on duty in the parking lots nerable," O'Brien said. have a safe and comfortable time at before, during, and after the game." Increased security measures at the game," said Athletic Director Corrigan said the University's Notre Dame include the addition of Gene Corrigan. Associate Athletic court loss has "changed howschools Director Joseph O'Brien added, view the use ofparking lots." 
Notre Dame Judicial Council sets goals for coming year 
ByJOHNGORLA guide for the student who may be possibly give a discount for the first "1be students need to be more can be made to the guide. "One of StaffReporter guilty of a university offense, In-hour ofconsultation, she said. aware that these people exist and the biggest problems with DuLac," gwersen said. Although in the past there has are here to help us," Ingwersen said. Ingwerswen said, "is that some areas 
The Notre Dame Judicial Council Four committees compose the been some difficulty in getting some are barely interpretable and are in presented its case to make students body of the council, whose mem-lawyers to help !i.-tudents, she said She noted that both John need ofrevision." more aware of their rights on bers are the judicial board chairmen she is optimistic the committee wiiJ Goldrick, associate vice-president campus at its first meeting of the from each residence hall. Each one get the job done. for residence life, and Ann Firth, She added that this committee year last night. has a specific goal to accomplish this The Administrative and Rector director of residence life, have was instrumental in publishing the 
year. Relations Committee, according to expressed an interest in the stu­S~dents' Manual ofRights last year. 
"We want to aid the student and The Legal Services Committee Ingwersen, will attempt to clarify dents' view of the }-board system make him more aware of his rights plans to contact area lawyers and to the discrepancies that existbetween and in any suggestions the students Ingwersen said in order to ac­and the options that are open to act as a type of liason between stu-the judiciary boards in each dorm. have for improving the system. hieve these goals, the council will him," said Karen Ingwersen, coor­dents and the lawyers, Ingwersen This committee also will help to bet­rely on strong support from the ad­dinator of the Judicial Council. said. This project will culminate in ter define the roles ofthe hall rector The Dulac Review Committee ministration. "The administration is 
The council published the Stu­the publication of a list of area and RAs to help the students know will recommend to the administra­very receptive to our ideas," she dents' Rights Manual last year as a lawyers who will assist students and specifically what these roles are. tion improvements and changes that said. 

The Observer Friday, September 13, 1985 -page 2 

A University of Iowa student govemment 
group has allocated S7,500 for students who are denied federal financial aid because they refuse to register for the draft. Collqparc Associations Council voted 9-7 at a meeting earlier this week to create the fund from mandatory student fees. The fund requires ap­proval from Philip Hubbard, vice president for studentservices. -AP 
A convict who spent a decade on death row 
for killing a man when he was 17 was executed by lethal injection early Wednesday in Huntsville Texas. "About all I can say is goodbye," Charles Rumbaugh, 28, said as he lay strapped to a gurney with needles inserted into his arms. "For the rest ofyou, even though you don't forgive me for my trangressions, I forgive you for yours against me. "That's all I wish to say. I'm ready to begin my journey." He was the first person in more than two decades to be put to death for a crime committed while under the age of 18. Rumbaugh was convicted ofkilling Michael Fiorillo, 58, during a 1975 holdup at his Amarillo jewelry store. -AP 
Gov. Bob Kerrey said he has oh.ly one piece ofadvice for country music star Willie Nelson concerning the Sept. 22 Farm Aid benefit concert in Champaign, Ill. "Don't give the money to politicians," Kerrey said he told Nelson, who performed at the Nebraska State Fair last weekend. The publicity Nelson is bringing to farm problems is worth more than the S 10 million Nelson expects to raise, Kerrey said Wednesday. "I don't think you could buy the kind of advertising attention that Willie Nelson's going to give agriculture," Kerrey said. "He feels very strongly that something needs to be done." -AP 
Morris the Catstole the show from Gov. Mario Cuomo's wife and the state health commissioner at a news conference an­nouncing the eat's starring role in a public service TV commercial promoting good health. Morris, the finicky star offood commercials, was placed on top ofthe podium the governor normally uses at press conferences for the announcement Wednesday as nine news photographers clicked away. Reporters shouted questions to the famous cat about the national economy and other topics in the news. Morris declined to comment. -AP 
' 
Of Interest 
Reggae Rock-N-Roll Band Quasar will perform tonight in front ofNorth Dining Hall. Thi~ event is free, sponsored by the Student Activities Board. -Tbe Observer 
The Student Activities Board will rent out 
refrigerators between l and 2 on Sunday Sept. 1 5 in the Stepan Center. Rate is $35 for the year plus a S20 security deposit. -Tbe Observer 
Environmental Concerns organization picnic will take place this afternoon at 4 at Holy Cross Field. There is no charge for this event and all are welcome. -Tbe Observer 
Weather 

---~ 
-no~~ 1
-
Cool weather continues , , . -I' 
today as it will be sunny too. High in the lower 70s. Partly cloudy tonight and tomorrow with the low 45 to 50. High tomorrow in the mid 70s. -AP 
The Observer 
The Observer (USPS '599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. Th~ Obecrver is published by the students of the lJniversity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College:. Subscriptions may be purchased for $30 per year ( JlO per se­mester) by writing The Observer, P.O. 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 465')6. 
The Observer is a member of lb~ AMoclakd Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Today's issue was produced by: 
Design Editor................. Maureen Murphy Design Assistant............... Melissa Warnke T_ypesetters ...................................Tom Small Mary Ellen Harrington Mark B. Johnson 
Becky Gunderman Typist.. ..................... Kathleen McKernan News Editor....................... Mary Heillmann Copy Editor ................... Cindy Rauckhorst Sports Copy Editor ............ .... Many Burns Sports Special Layout.. ....... Andi Schnuck JeffBlumb Slotman ...................................... l.arry Burke Viewpoint Copy Editor ....... Aimee Storin Viewpoint Layout............ Elizabeth Vogel Features Copy Editor...............Sam Moore Features Layout.................... .\taria Groner ND Day Editor ....................... Lynne Strand SMC Day Editor.................... Priscilla Karle Ad Design .................... Mary Carol Creadm Joan Wraffe Peter Georges Photographer ... ...........Chaitanya Panch a! 

Road trip to wedding is cause for as much celebration as Michigan 
It's time for a road trip. 

This weekend countless Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will pile in their cars, pack Notre Dame parap­hernalia, pull out their road maps, and head north to Ann Arbor. 
Although many do not have tickets (and some not even a place to stay), the opportunity to cheer the Irish on to victory in unfriendly territory is too tempting to pass up. And the chance to experience life on another campus, even for a few days, is a welcome one. 
I'm also going to be making a road trip this weekend. 

This road trip won't be of the northern variety, like that of my friends and classmates. Instead it will be a western one, to my home, north ofChicago. 
I admit it is a little early to be homeward bound. I'm not sick of my classes or even the dining hall food yet. Homesickness is not a factor either. 
The reason I'm going home is to attend my sister's wedding. 
Everyone has been to a 

wedding.  The  scene  is  
etched  in  our  minds:  the  
white  wedding  dress,  the  
groom's  tuxedo,  the  ex­ 

change of vows, the excited 

Frank Lipo 
Copy Chief 
own family's weddings. It is not the individual wedding day alone which is significant. After all, it is only a one­day event, despite the excitement. It is the lifetime commitment of marriage, a universal commitment, which also is being celebrated. 
Marriage has come under attack in our society. The divorce rate is high. It has reached a point where the majority ofpeople have been touched by the tragedy of divorce, whether in their own families or the families of friends and neighbors. It would be foolish to ignore the 
reality of the threat to this institution. 
Threatened though it may be, the beauty of marriage (and the wedding ceremony) is eternal op­timism. Each couple ap­

and nervous families, the proaches the altar with 
reception. Of course each wedding is different, but our American culture possesses a certain conception ofwhat a wedding should be. We are comfortable with that con­ception. 
I have been a guest at a number of weddings. As a rule I have not been close to the bride or groom. Instead Cf·Jl they have been distant relatives or friends of the family. 
But that will change this weekend. This is not a wed­ding. This is The Wedding for my family. For months plans and preparations have been made. This wedding will not draw the attention that the world gave to the marriage of Prince Charles and Lady Di. But it is the most special event in my family in a long time. 
That is the beauty ofany wedding. A wedding is uni­versal and yet intensely personal. The ceremony is one of humanity's most ancient rituals. Anyone can under­stand the universality ofthe wedding ring as a symbol of eternity or the reception as a time to celebrate what has occurred and what lies ahead. 
But I'm certain my sister and her new husband will not be pondering universal implications tomorrow af­ternoon, nor will our two families. On the family level a weddingceremony is unique. It is special. It is a time for celebration. 
Most people probably can see both the universal and the personal elements of a wedding ceremony in their 


''Good 
friends 



(»o 
University Park Mall • Just outside L.S. Ayres in the mall 
VUARNET CARRERA 
COUPON 

RAY-BAN rgoc4fo-,es•f.o/1 
GARGOYLE 
r~ g.c ~-f!lam 
GUCCI 
expires 9/30185 

confidence that their mar­riage is eternal. They know there will be problems and that every day will not have the excitement of the wed­ding ceremony and recep­tion. But each commits their life to the other. 
~ The reality of the threat which marriage and family t1/,R.(L4E/11HOLT life face can make a wedding ceremony even more joyful today than in times past. A 
couple sees a society which makes divorce and living together viable options. Yet they trust in their commit­ment. 
The relatives and friends who come from near and far to share the solemnity and celebration with the bride and groom seem to bring the significance of a wedding into focus. 
Although we often lose touch with relatives, in a wed­ding celebration we quickly become comfortable. After all, we are family precisely because of such wedding ceremonies throughout the years. 
Tomorrow afternoon won't be just another Saturday for my family because ofmy sister's wedding. Itwill be a time to joyously anticipate a shared future. And it also will be a time to look back with gratitude to the good times ana bad times shared by my family. 
I won't regret missing my classes today because of this road trip or even missing most of the Michigan game tomorrow. I've got a lot to cheer about at home. 


don't let 
~ood 
friends 
Q 
smoke cigarettes:' 
Larry Hagman 


SILK SCREENING AND SPORTING GOODS COMPLETE OUTFITTERS for INTRAMURAL SPORTS 
Football shoes Soccer equipment & custom uniforms (Umbro, Russell, others) Wide selection of NO lettered sweats, jackets, t-shirts & sweaters Custom T-shirts, jerseys and team uniforms 
1O.,,OFF WITH NO I. D. * 
1635 E. Edison Rd. 277-7284 M-F 10-9, Sat. 10-6, Sun. 1-5 



The Observer Friday, September 13, 1985 -page 3 


Theologian Roland Murphy to give lecture at SMC 
Spedal to The Observer library as a symbol of the primary Studies and co-director of the foundation for prayer, faith and the president of the Catholic Biblica 
place of the Bible in the life of the Center for Spirituality, "Father study oftheology. Association, and in December, 
Father Roland Murphy, an College. The Bible and stand are Murphy's talk will be profitable for A member of the Order of the 1983, he was elected president of internationally-known Bible ex­gifts from a 1985 nursinggraduate. all who are interested in knowing Carmelites, Murphy has also the International Society of Bibli­pert, will speak on "The Psalms and Murphy, the George Was­how to read and pray with the served as editor-in-chief and as a cal Uterature. He has been actively Prayer" at 7:30 p.m. Thursday, in hington Ivey Professor of Biblical Bible. His lecture at Saint Mary's member of the editorial board of engaged in ecumenical dialogue. O'Laughlin Auditorium. The Studies at the Divinity School of last fall on 'Love Poetry in the the "Catholic Biblical Quarterly." Murphy holds a doctorate from lecture, sponsored by Saint Mary's Duke University, will discuss the Bible' was very well-received by an He is a member of the editorial Catholic University, where he Religious Studies Department, is importance of the psalms and how audience of over 1,000 and we are boards of"Concilium," "Vetus Tes­taught classes in Semantic lan­free and open to the public. to use them in prayer. His lecture very honored to have him return." tamentun," "Interpretation," guages and Old Testament. He has 
In conjunction with the lecture, will ~ addressed to students and Murphy will also serve as a con­"Theological Studies," "Old Testa­also taught at Pittsburgh Theologi· a Bible and stand will be dedicated others who are not specialists in sultant to Saint Mary's this fall on a ment Abstracts," and the cal Seminary, Yale, University in Cushwa-Leighton Library at 4:30 the study of the Bible. new introductory Bible course re­"Hermeneia" Biblical commentary Divinity School, Princeton 
p.m. The Bible will be placed According to Keith Egan, chair­quired for all Saint Mary's fresh­series. Theological Seminary and Notre prominently in the lobby of the man ofthe department ofReligious men. The course is designed as a In 1968 Murphy was elected Dame. 
..-...----------------------------­
DISCOUNT RECORDS & TAPES 
I 
I I I I I I I I I I I 


. ., 
arl~l~ 
''r:Juulitional flta.D.an Cu.ulne 11 

Y~f~~~clcde~ .... 
~cJid?[f~iJ 1c:E [/tafian d?e~ta.u.tant 
diD'U~£ ~fPECffdi.L~ ffdVC..LV.f£JE:
*'Jettu.cinne d/f(u.do
*Cl'z.icke.n Cacciatou.
*<"Veal Pa.'tmigia.na *d?a.viofi
*c;(flfanicotti Coctails-Beer-Wine 
AND OF COURSE... 

Don't Miss Our Own Orginal "PIZZA" 
"EVERYTHING BUT THE GONDOLA" 
Your Host: Roberto Parisi 
NOJ•I
Open For Dinner Only 
..... 
Reservations Accepted 
277-0587 
18455 South Bend Avenue (1 ,.&L uut o{..Not\£ 2)..,..) 
Help Prevent Birth Defects ~ Support the 
~ ~!9DEC~tQ~~ 
CENTURY CENTER 
IF!!day, 5ept.13, 8:30pm 
Main Event "Friday the 13th Match" No Referee, No Disqualification, No Time Limit! Scott & Sam Reynolds 
vs. 
"Mad Greek" Tolos I. The Sheik 
For !he lndlgna Igg Team Tille! 
Plus, Midwest Heavyweight Champ Terry "The Hammer" Scholl.6'6,3021bs. 
vs. 
The "New" Sonny Rogera Special Attraction -Ladles Matchl Zebra Girl vs. Honey B. Novak. female powerllfllng champion. 
Plus Exciting Opening Matches! ICing Kobi-~.6'5,3421bs. vs. Marine Sgt. Rock Zebra Kid vs. "<iofdtn lov" MIH Sommert M Mala.,.2!!!1.ss. Tick...now on tale at: 
Century Center lox Office 
120 S.St.Joleph st., South lend 2U.9111 
Charles Lennon, director of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, speaks to students yesterday about the services of his organization. Besides 
Top40Sale 
All the top 40 on sale starting at just $5.99 includes: Dire Straits, Sting Billy Joel 
BLOW-OUT SALE 
on 
BLANK TAPE 
ll!!gNII 
Maxell 
ma"BKI:iiJ 
XLII 90's
f!.•::.tt 
0 ...\~ 

$1.99EACH 1 
YOU CAN WALK TO TRACKS I 
I
At the corner of Edison Rd & St. Rd. 23 
I
Just across from the King's Cellar 
I 


I I 
I 10 ro 9 daily 1631 E. Edison I I noon to 6 Sunday South Bend 1 
II ' I 
I I

IINDIANA'S FINEST DISCOUNT RECORD STORE I 
~-----------------------------' 
CASH PAID FOR LP's•TAPES.CD's 

3000 IN STOCK 
TRACKS 
HAS IT ALL •Imports •Over 1,500 CO's In stock •Classical •Reggae •Blues 12" and 45's 
SEE US FIRST 

providing the link between alumni and Notre Dame, the association also offers students services such as the Spring Break Florida trip activities. 


Noted artist joins Saint Mary's staff 
Speda1 to The Observer 
Artist Unda Plotkin, whose prints have received international recogni· tion, will visit Saint Mary's as artist­in-residence until Sept. 21. 
Plotkin will present a lecture on Wednesday, Sept. 18, entitled "New Directions" in room 232 Moreau Hall. The public is invited to the lecture and there is no charge. 
Plotkin's prints are known for their color, sense of light and draftmanship. A native of Mil· waukee, Plotkin graduated froG:Ithe University of Wisconsin and received her masters of fine arts from Pratt Institute in Brooklyn. From 1970-77, she taught printmak­ing at Pennsylvania State University. 

She has lived and worked in New York City since 1978. 
Most of her work is still-life, rich in color and texture. With herskill in portraying the play of light and shadow on everyday objects, she gave the objects a sense of mystery and signifigance. Some of her more recent etchin~. lithographs, and watercolors were included in an ex­hibition at Saint Mary's last spring. 
She has exhibited internationally and her work is in many public col­lections, including the Bibliotheque Nationale, Paris, Brooklyn Museum, Cleveland Museum ofArt, Library of Congress, Metropolitan Museum of Art, Museum of Modem Art, San Diego Fine Arts Center, and the Yale University Museum ofArt. 

The Observer Friday, September 13, 1985 -page 4 
Reagan boosts bill in Florida speech 


for," he said. "Some individuals go 
on so-called 'educational' ocean 
TAMPA, Fla. · President Reagan cruises or purchase sky boxes at returned to Florida yesterday sports arenas and write them off as determined to drum up interest in a business expenses." tax bill congressional leaders say It is a message the president has tust isn't a top-priority item among hammered home in speeches in constituents more concerned about more than a dozen states since he the trade deficit or South Africa. launched his campaign to overhaul 
Using his own age and inevitable the tax system in a Memorial Day retirement to identify himself with address in nearby Orlando. his elderly audience, the 74-year· With references to his own age old, second-term president pressed scattered throughout the speech, his campaign against "useless tax Reagan described himself as a senior dodges" and called charges his tax citizen who has "fought the last elec· plan would hurt the middle class tion of my political life." "balderdash." ·~r friends, in this regard you and 
I h~ much in common," Reagan 
Addressing about 2,600 senior told the "senior citizens forum on citizens brought together by a na· tax reform." tionallobby financed largely by cor· "We've lived out a great part of 
porations that support the our lives," he said, and now look to administration's tax bilL Reagan said the future hoping new generations he opposes the present system be· will enjoy the freedom and oppor­cause it isn't fair. tunity long cherished by Americans. 
"I've been preaching the merits of The forum was organized by free enterpriee for years," said Americans for Tax Reform, a coali­Reagan, whose 1981 tax cut was at· tion of business and community 
tacked for providing the nation's groups set up to lobby for the tax wealthiest taxpayers with the bill. It is financed largely by its cor­greatest benefits. "Business people porate sponsors, including Dart and provide jobs and create wealth. I Kraft. have nothing against them; on the After campaigning almost ex­contrary, they have my heartfelt ad· clusively for his tax proposal for miration. much of the summer, Reagan's big· 
"What I am against is a tax system gest obstacle is in keeping it high 
that allows some to take perfectly enough on the congressional agenda legal deductions that by any stan· to win action by both the House and dard offairness are an outrage." Senate before the end of the year. 
"Every year many Americans pay Leading members of both parties more in federal income taxes than say the plan has captured litde atten­the giant corporations they work tion among voters. 

Congress pushes for South Africa sanctions 


Anti-Apartheid Act of 1985, 
Democrats scheduled a third vote 
WASHINGTON Senate yesterday. Democratic leaders say they will But Assistant Senate Democratic keep the issue of tougher economic Leader Alan Cranston of California sanctions against white-ruled South said there was virtually no way to Africa constantly before Congress, build a winning coalition of60 votes attaching it to measure after needed to end the debate. measure "until we win." 
But Republicans accuse the Instead, Cranston said supporters Democrats of waging a politically ofthe legislation will use yesterday's motivated campaign to embarrass vote to keep the issue alive and will President Reagan, whom they said seek to attach the legislation to the should be given credit and support pending debt limitation bill, a for revamping his administration's measure which requires only a policy toward South Africa. Reagan majority vote for passage and which on Monday issued his own list of President Reagan would likely find sanctions aimed at South Africa's difficult to veto. apartheid system of enforced racial "I believe we have a majority that separation. will stick on a substantive vote," 
Having failed Wednesday in their Cranston said. "We will get that on a second assault on a filibuster bill that is tough to filibuster and is preventing consideration of the very difficult to veto." 
Glemp asks U.S. to abolish sanctions against Poland 

people." Glemp said without elaborating that the sanctions, WARSAW, Poland · Poland's which include a ban on agricultural Roman Catholic primate, Cardinal credits for gra1n purchases, had Jozef Glemp, on Wednesday urged caused Polish poultryfarms to close. the United States to lift its economic Washington lifted some sanctions sanctions against this communist na­last year in response to the Polish tion. government's amnesty for political 
Glemp, who will visit America prisoners. But it left in place the har­next week for the first time, also said shest restrictions, including a ban on the Polish church has "begun new credits and the denial of "most preparations" for a third visit by favored nation" trading status to Pope John Paul II to his native land Poland. in 1987. He said he hadn't talked to The Reagan administration said it the Polish government about it yet. would lift the remaining sanctions 
when Polish authorities ease their 
Asked how he would respond if grip on the nation. 
U.S. officials questioned him about Glemp said Poland should be the sanctions Washington imposed treated like other Soviet bloc foUowing the December 1981 im· countries. position of martial law in Poland, "The most favored nation clause Glcmp replied: we deserve in the same way as Czec­
"I would say that the sanctions hoslovakia or Hungary," Glemp said. should long ago have been lifted as They are the only Eastern European we are in a difficult situation. I think countries to have the special trading that the effect is negative for the status. 

. ( -~ 
.-:~:~:..!..( t" ~ 
Riot aftermath 
The clean-up in Bimringham, England, con­tinues after rioting late Monday night covered 
APPhoto 
much of the city with rubble. Two boditts were recovered from this post office in the city's Hand­sworth district. 

What makes 



Sundayspecial? 
One call, three friends•••ancl our $7.99 Sunday special. 
One call to DOMINO'S PIZZA® gets you our Sunday special-a 16-inch, single topping pizza for just $7 .99. It's a great way to get together with three other students and enjoy a hot, custom-made pizza for about $2 each! 
And Domino's Pizza Delivers® Free. In 30 minutes or less, or you get $3 off your order. 
So make Sunday special with our $7.99 Sunday special. It's available all evening this Sunday. Only from Domino's Pizza®. 

Call us: 
277-2151 
1835 South Bend Ave .. Plaza 23 Center South Bend 
IJ/J 
~(
()Jtt rJl•
(JJJeA 

Our drivers carry less than $20.00. No coupon necessary. Just request lhe Sunday special. "16-incll piZZa generally serves 3-5 people. Umlted delivery area. ICJ 1985 Domino"s Pizza. Inc. 
DOMINO'S 
PIZZA 
DELIVERS® FREE. 
------~~------­
The Observer Friday, September 13, 1985 -page 5 


Macri's Deli Welcomes ND/SMC Class of '89 
Grea·t Reasons To Stop in at Macri's Deli: 
Unique Sandwich Menu: 
Gyros Beefand Company Old Chicago Crescents plus'20 more! Soups, Salads, Appetizers, Desserts 
Beer and Wine CasualAtmosphere 
PLUS: 

FootbaU Catering (TaUgaters) 
3 foot or 6 foot Sandwiches Meat and Cheese Trays Special Boxed Lunches 
Mon·Thurs  11:30·1 0:00  
Fri-Sat  11 :30·11 :00  
Sunday  12:00·1 0:00  

~·~g~.. ~«k /7akUite 9'~ f17. r. 
COME WATCH THE IRISH POUND MICHIGANI 
&'OIHUI~17/uJdal JYack»~/2.00~~.' 

Soviet agent defects; England ejects spies 
Associated Press formation, also on conversations he conducted, and he was an extremely 
LONDON -The British govern~ important source of information of ment announced yesterday the significance to our security." Soviet spymaster for Britain has The Danish minister said British defected and has identified 25 and Danish counter-intelligence espionage agents who are being ex­services had been in contact with peUed from the country. each other about Gordievski for 
The Foreign Office said Oleg Gor­some time, though he would not go dievski, 46, recently had been into details. appointed head of the Soviet KGB Britain's Foreign Office would not office in London but defected be­comment on Ninn-Hansen's state· cause he "wished to become a ment. citizen of a demO<!ratic country and The 25 Soviets were the largest live in a free society." He was number of alleged spies to be sent granted asylum in Britain. back to Moscow since 1971, when 
Geoffrey Howe, foreign secretary, Britain expelled 1OS Soviet called the defection a "substantial diplomats and trade officials. coup," for the British security The Foreign Office said the services. Soviets were ordered to leave 
Erik Ninn-Hansen, Denmark's Britain by Oct. 3. justice minister, indicated that Gor­Howe said Britain had suffered dievski had been a double agent for from the 25 alleged spies. "It's the West since the 1970s, when he clearly serious. They were engaging served with the Soviet Embassy in in intelligence activities of a kind Copenhagen. and on a scale that was unaccep­
Nino-Hansen, speaking on Danish table, and this action (the mass ex­television, said Gordievski "supplied pulsion) is therefore necessary for police inteUigence with much in-the defense ofnational security." 
Lebanese soldiers rescue Portuguese an1bassador 
Ferreira, 57, drove across the Green line with his wife from the Christian BEIRUT, Lebanon · Lebanese sol-east side into Moslem west Beirut. diers rescued the Portuguese ambas-Lebanese soldiers manning a 
_sador Wednesday when Moslem checkpoint at the Kasskass-Massaleh gunmen in west Beirut tried to drag crossing ran to rescue him when him from his car at the Green Line they saw the gunmen trying to drag dividing the city. him out of his blue Chevrolet. The 
In southern Lebanon, an 18-year-•gunmen fled down a maze of al­old woman died when she drove a leyways and it was not known to car loaded with TNT into a check-which militia they belonged. point manned by Christian The ambassador and his wife, militiamen and blew it up. There Maria, were not injured. were conflicting reports of The suicide car bombing in south casualties in the car-bombing. Lebanon was aimed at a checkpoint 
The kidnap attempt was made oftheSouth.Lebanese Army, a militia when Ambassador Louis Gonzaga supported by Israel. 

Please present this ad for a 50% discount on yourfirst visit to our new full service salon. 
CRatta'g 9Jalll crfagltlottg 
408 N. HICKORY AD. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 4ee15 
PHONE 232·1543 



Thursday-75¢ shots of mellon balls all night Fri & Sat 75' of rootbeer all night 
MINOR CONDITON 
Thurs, Fri, and Sat. live at Chips DANCING EVERY NIGHT 
Student Activities University ofNotre Dame 
CLUB PRESIDENTS' MEETING 
A MANDA TORYmeetingfor all club presidents• will be held TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17from 7-9pm in the Library Auditorium 
Attendance is required to be eligiblefor Student Government funding. 
Ifpresident cannot atttend please have a club officer present 
The Observer Friday, September 13, 1985-page 6 

Scientists add to bleak picture of life after nuclear attack 
Aaeodated Press 
l 
WASHINGTON Billions of people who somehow sur-Vived the first blasts of a nuclear war merely would face drawn-out deaths by starvation, an international scientific group said yesterday in a new study supporting the theory of a crop-ruining global "nuclear winter." 
· Though an image of total devasta­
tion after a nuclear attack may well
I 
be accurate for areas around actual
l: targets, one of the report's authors 
said famine conditions in unscathed areas would be far more typical -as hundreds of millions oftons ofblack smoke drastically cut sunlight and robbed crops ofneeded warmth and light from the sun. 
"We are left with images of Et­hiopia and the Sudan as being more representative of what the world would look like after a nuclear war for most ofthe people than the sorts ofimages we have of Hiroshima and Nagasaki," Mark Harwell of Cornell University said at a news conference 
Nicaraguan guerrilla claitns 
U.S. providing military aid 
.. 

The Hague, Netherlands -A former leader of guerrillas fight­ing Nicaragua's Sandinista government charged in an af­fidavit released yesterday that the United States has continued military support for the rebels despite bans by the U.S. Congress and the World Court. 
In the sworn statement released by Nicaragua, former Contra leader Edgar Chamorro also charged that the CIA "did not discourage" rebel atrocities, and said guerrilla units com­monly terrorized villagers into joining them. The U.S. State Department issued a denial ofthe accusation yesterday. 
Nicaragua has charged the U.S. with waging "armed attacks" to overthrow its government. Oral arguments. in the case opened yesterday before the W odd Court, the judicial arm of the United Nations. 
The court, formerly known as 

the International Court of Justice, has no power to enforce its decisions and depends on voluntary compliance by states coming before it. 
The U.S. is boycotting the proceedings, claiming the court has no jurisdiction. The Reagan administration has said the dispute must be settled through diplomatic channels, and has charged Nicaraguawith using the court as a "propaganda forum." 

fLOST: Diamond Engagement Ringt
f ttel9 (possibly in the vicinity ofthe Grotto) fff 9te08e HUSBAND WILL KILL IFNOTFOUND!! 
f Reward iffound 232-6069 f 
----~~~-~~~---~-~-­


SUPER 
VAL 

DRUGS 


933 N. Eddy Street Phone: 287-3663 
JUST NEXT DOOR TO ALDI'S 
SEE US FOR ALL YOUR MICHIGAN GAME PARTY SNACKSI 
2 literpopspecial only99¢ 
7-up Diet Pepsi 
Pepsi
Sunkist Dr. pepper 
SPECIAL NOTICE! "Wierd Harold" ofSUPER VAL DRUGS predicts that Notre Dame will beat 
Michigan 21-17. If"Wierd Harold" is correct... He promises to take 15/DFFALL 
( ~011 ~~ §. !ll. caul) 
''GO IRISH'' 
He said it estimated famine deaths of one to four billion of the world's five billion people after direct blast and radiation effects ofactual attacks cost several hundred million lives. 
"The main mechanism by which people would die after a large-scale nuclear war would not be blast ef­fect, would not be burns, would not be radiation but rather would be mass starvation," he said. 
The two-volume report, prepared by a special committee of the Inter­national Council of Scientific Uni-

Kegs 
continuedfrom page 1 
13 uniformed security officers and a 
supervisor over each parking lot at­
tendant. Attendants will be sta­
tioned at each gate, which also will 
insure people ofmedical and first aid 
should it be necessary, said O'Brien. 
H violators are caught, he said, 
"We'll tell them they're not 
welcome, deny their parking passes 
and if necessary take away their ons, suggests that black smoke from nuclear attacks on urban areas -the main trigger for a "nuclear winter" ­would cause sudden and perhaps long-term declines in temperatures and in light reaching the Earth, even in nations far from those attacked. 
The findings basically support those ofother groups, including the National Academy of Sciences, which has used atmospheric models as evidence that even a limited ex­~hange could touch offsome form of nuclear winter -especially in inland. 
St:ason tic ets. t:y're in the policeman's hands if they are un­ruly." 
"We hope for cooperation. We want nobody on the field nor any pass outs -people leaving the stadium and then returning. We don't have any problems with tailgate parties; the problem is of someone getting out of hand," O'Brien said. 
"We know drinking occurs," Cor­
rigan said, "but we don't want to see 
a bar out there." 
Corrigan said several other uni­versities are taking similar steps. 
farm areas away from moderating in­
fluences of the oceans. The new 
report is based on more detailed 

modeling and computer work, the authors said. 
The chairman of the study group, Frederick Warner of Britain, former chairman of the British National Committee on Problems of the En­vironment, said, "This effort represents the consensus of a pres­tigious body of scientists. It would be a grave error to ignore their fin­din~. 
O'Brit:n said Pur ut:, or t:xamp t:, is increasing security in its parking lot and distributing handouts to fans coming to park. 
"Tailgaters should not be equated with keggers," said Charles Lennon, executive director of the Alumni As­sociation. "Kegs seem to encourage more drinking than from a beer can. You can bring beer if you're not abusive," he said. 
"We're very supportive of what the University needs to do," Lennon said. "There are plenty of places to get beer if they (the alumni) want to." 

IIIII$ IllIS CEWI CELLAI VODKA BLEND
699 799 
1.7$ LITER 
CALVERT GIN Jill lUll BOURBON
899 
1 .75 LITEit 

9!~ 
LITEI 
THE KING SAYS "Root like A Butterfly, Sting like ABee ... Buy Now and Beat F.E.T." 


IIUIIIRU 
CAUFE 
1 UTEil 
WHITE IIOUIITIIII COOLER 
• UTfl 
612-0Z. 

399 
Nil 

"WINE OF THE MONTH" IIASIA CHARDOIIUY 01 CIIEIIIET 





VieWR_O_i_n_t_________
Fr-ida-y,_se-pt-em-be_r_13_,1-98-5--p-ag-e7­

Speakes is interpreter 


for Ronald Reagan 
Larry Speakes is a truly gifted man. As far as I lets fired at them from six feet away with their know, his ability is unique. teeth for sport. Enter Mr. Speakes. "I think the It is the type of gift which we all aspire to President is talking about in the major cities, have, a combination of mind-reading and where there have been steps in that direction 
prognostication ability which lottery players to remove barriers ofapartheid." need and baseball managers desire. However, You see, realism has now set in. The}ohan· only Larry Speakes has this gift, and he uses it nesburg McDonald's now serves blacks, but to perform an invaluable public servic~. they must all return to their homelands by 
·dusk. Thanks Larry. Not convinced? Here is 

Kevin Mundy another quote from the same time and topic. President Reagan had a comment onjerry Fal· well and his much-publicized criticism ofBis· 
guest column hop Desmond Tutu. "You know, we must
e recognize that the black majority in South 
' 

As presidential press secretary, Larry Africa is a combination of minorities. There Speakes is the only man in the world who can are at least 10 tribal divisions there. (Rev. Fal· tell us what President Reagan is saying. Not well) heard that some considered Bishop what the President said, mind you, for that is Tutu a leader; others rejected him as a leader. duly recorded on videotapes and transcripts. And this is what he was trying to say." Larry Speakes, like a modem day oracle, trans­
Enough said. 
forms the President's word., into some sort of Here again many of you would misread understandable policy, for the Great Com· things totally, concluding thatTutu is a phony. municator is obviously operating too high up But our man of the hour, Larry Speakes, in the intellectual stratosphere to be under· prevents such a distortion, declaring "The stood by us mortals. Without Mr. Speakc;s, our President believes that Tutu is a leader of the Fearless Leader might be called the Telegenic black community there. The President has Turkey, for his brief statements would ob­met with Bishop Tutu, and respects him. viously be misunderstood by the majority of (Reagan) wishes that Bishop Tutu and other the American public, particularly us idiots col­black leaders would participate in the lectively known as the media. dialogue with the South African government." 
As proofofthis ability, I show exhibit A, the I rest my case. Some cynics I know say the Reagan/Speakes media discussion of South only difference between Reagan and Speakes Africa over Labor Day weekend. President is that the President watches "The 700 Club" Reagan suggested that his "constructive and Larry watches "The CBS Evening News," engagement" policy is working, saying, "They but that is far too simplistic. It is Larry's gift
-The Observer 
have eliminated the segregation that we once which enables him to make such perceptive had in our own country, the type of thing statements. When the President leaves office I where hotels and restaurants and places ofen­think Larry should immediately perform the tertainment and so forth were segregated·· same service for Yogi Berra, another often that has all been eliminated." misunderstood individual. With the Speakes' 
Now a casual observer might misinterpret trarJSlation, all ofAmerica will learn that "90/ this. It could be assumed that the high mor­of this game is half mental" really means "it tality rate among blacks in South Africa is be­ain't over 'til it's over." cause they are playing tackle football without helmets, and that they are trying to catch bul-Kevin Mundy is a freshman atNotre Dame. 
Doonesbuey Garry Trudeau 
ON BeHALF OF "USA BeFORe (,1£ f£T ()NCEf<­~ 7HANK YOO,Jmzy. 
7HANK.YOJ,SIR. WNTA M/Ni.l$.
FOR 50tJTHAFRICA,~ I WAY, I BELIE.VE 7He I JU5TUJtWTW7054Y 
MEU TRY 70 MAYBE JHAr5
MJ4NT 70 IAJ&I.{[)ME YOU PRESICJ£NTIADJUJ LIKe 7Htrr I FINO APAIWitJC/ 
FfT JHATINTHE. 7(X) 5lll~J.J5. fWJ 
Because of a shipping

; 70 THe "APART-AID''RE-70 SAYA FW IA/OI?PS. MORAJJ.,Y REPU6NANT! 
UNEJ?. NC!ff;5. A80iff ~MILDLY 
: CORPIN6 5ESSION. / 
' I?EPU6NANT"? 
error, Doonesbury 

~ -......_
/ 
/ 
~ 
arrived late this week. As of today, Doonesbury is 
•
now In sequence. 
EV8?fCNE (;(J{IT? 7HC PRESI­

IJH.. OKAY. 7EMPO,MR.
PeNTUIIU RAPA~ PRES/reNT, The Viewpoint
F/V£, $/X,
OF PATIENCE 100CR ZUW 

5MN, !3/GHT, TEMPO! 
~ 8REJHP..EN, ANlJ THe /i'&5T I.JI,NINE/ Department
I

: OFU5IAJIU.. 5lJPP()f(THIM IN meCJfa?J.J5ES. ~ 
P.O.BoxQ
/ ~ 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
• 
Tbe Observer accepts letters to tbe editor at the above address. All let· ters received become theproperty of The Observer. Letters must be typed, no longer tban 250 words and signed by the author. 

• 
Guest columns may not respond directly to previous commentaries appearing in The Observer andmay notexceed 700 words. 

• 
The Observer encourages com· mentaries from all members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's com· munity. 

• 
Commentaries appearing in The Observer do not necessarily reflect tbe opinions ofTbe Observer. 

• 
Tbe official opinions of The Ob· server appear in the Viewpoint sec· tion ofThe Observer and are signed "· The Observer." 






"ielYP.~O~i~n_t_____________________________________________F_r_id_a~y,_s_ep_t_e_m_b_er_t_3_,_t_98_5_-_P_a_ge__s 


Saint Mary's senior cites the love of her father 
I cannot begin to tell you, Dad, how much it probably already know what I am about to say, great sense of humor and your ease with all the times I have made you worry. I know I means to me that you are here this weekend. I but it is important to me that I am sure you people. I can see why everyone who meets have been the cause of quite a few of those have been looking forward to this for a long know. you likes you and why everyone who knows grey hairs, and it hurts me to know that I have time and I know we are going to have a great Dad, you have always been my idol. When I you loves you. You are one of the smartest been the cause of some of those tears that time.lt seems that lately we both have been so was a little girl you were my big, strong Daddy people I know. We both know it is not the frightened me so much as a child. busy coming and going that we have not al­and you could make everything okay. When I laudes that matter. Finally, I admire your The good times, though, far outweigh the ways had enough time to spend together. I am woke up in the middle of the night from a determination and energy. You are the har· bad. I have such fond memories ofyou and the so glad ofthis opportunity to be selfish and to nightmare or a noise in the dark, I knew I was dest working man I know and sometimes I times we have spent together. I think ofwhen have you all to myself for a whole weekend, safe because you were in the next room. I wonder how you do it, although I know that I I was little and the Saturdays I spent "helping" not only because it will be fun but because it knew that you would never let anything hurt am the reason you do it. you at the farm and of the times when my gives me the opportunity to tell you some me. It scared me so much to see you crying I am so proud that you are my father! Do sisters and I ganged up on you for those im· things I wish I had told you long ago. the day grandpa died. I did not think strong you know that I brag about you all the time? I promptu wrestling matches. You always won, 

daddies were supposed to do that. am also so very lucky that you are my father. I of course! There are so many good times, too 
I 
Maria Groner But I guess with age comes wisdom and I thank God for giving you to me! I also thank numerous to mention, that I will always learned that strong daddies do cry. And even you for all the wonderful things you have treasure. They are times of love, laughter, and the best daddies are not perfect. They can lose given me. Thank you for the opportunity to go happiness.
dear dad their temper and make mistakes. Yes, they are to St. Mary's. Thank you for being strict with Dad, I love you so much! In my eyes you are even wrong sometimes, although I know you me. I admit there were times when I wished the best. Thank you for being here 
I do not know why I have waited this long. have told me that you are always right, even you had not been, but I realize now that it has for our Senior Father/Daughter Weekend. Maybe it is because I was not mature enough when you are wrong! made me a better person. before now. I have certainly grown up since I But Dad, I still see so much in you that I Dad, I know it has not been easy raising me. came to St. Mary's. Or maybe because it has wish I could be. I see your goodness and your We have had our share of rough times. I guess not been until now that I have realized the day willingness to help others. I cannot think of a it is hard when two people are as stubborn as Maria Groner is a senior Humanistic is coming when I leave home for good and I .time when you did not lend a hand to you and I. I want you to know that I am sorry Studies and Speech communications major am finally on my own. At any rate, you someone who needed it. I also admire your for all the times I have made you angry and for at Saint Mary's College. 

Liberal arts students are forced to defend choice 
It has been several years since I wore a socks now asked equally trite questions about Many of the delicately woven fields in the liberal, flexible education. The value ofsuch a school uniform, and yet I am still navy and vn what I was studying in college, and where I area of Arts and Letters are fading into dan­varied, broad education is only recently being leery ofclothing which vaguely resembles the went to school anyway. Most of the teachers gerously grey piles, sapped by the societal generally reaiized. Although some people feel navy and navy plaid sets from my past. Not who knew me squirmed when I informed trend to swap the well-rounded education for that Arts and Letters is not a valuable tool to only were they ugly, but they stood for a cer­them I was an English major with a minor in mirrower, more directly serving technical attain further ends, society must learn to look 
tain polyester concept of control and order, computers. Their usual response included a knowlege. Students who were once sent to into the many threads which compose areas of 
quite contrary to the opinions I had begun for­comment about how good it was I knew college for a broad education now must the liberal arts, like the logical process which ming. something about computers. The fact that I return home to their summer employers, governs both math and philosophy, the in· attended a liberal arts school was also rather relatives and neighbors bearing magical quisitive which is important to marketing, his­
disconcerting. Most of these such convers­answers to questions about exactly why they tory, theology as well as chemistry.
Barbara Blanchette 
tions ended with their barrage ofadvice about are in school anyway. We, in this most unequally accepted area i I how to ignore my English major, and make up It is the nature of the liberal arts to be must bear with our convictions and remain!l with earnest for the fact that I was not trained for a specific broader and less specific than the clearer, confident in our academic choices. Only by n job. more defined fields of chemistry and com· dealing with unjust prejudices and movingi ; I wore the uniform because of the threat of puter science for example. The many different beyond even our own expectations can we ac·
Have the liberal arts become a fashion ofthe 
"corrective action" if I were to deviate, but aspects ofknowing how to analyze, think logi· hieve some respect for the fields we've
past, replaced even in the eyes of educated 
after a while, it was easier to just put on the cally, create new ideas, and read and write chosen. In bearing out some sense of our in·
educators by a tailored and therefore sturdy 
same outfit every day-no decisions. well are all a part of the liberal arts back­dividual talent we can exhibit the fine area-, of
employment future? 

Since every school in the district had its ground. All these abilities combine into a the general liberal arts distinguishing each of own plaid or color combination, we also It again seemed to be that I was forced into general sense of understanding the processes our plaids, bringing out the sense that the became known by the uniform we wore, wearing a uniform, that of a liberal arts stu­of business and of industry, and a general technical side of life is interdependent with grouped together visually by the factor we all dent. This time when I chose the pattern and ability to learn about change and planning, vi· those qualities inherent to the liberal arts resented most. made all the rules, I was forced to defend my tal skills in most types ofemployment. education. 
The last time I visited my high school the decision. If the modern academic community The history ofsuccess in these areas is long students wore a different plaid and were has changed so much over the years, how can and varies from Socrates' use ofthe logical and allowed more freedoms as far as breaking out we explain the return to thinking that trade inquisitive processes to reason and solve Barbara Blanchette is a senior English of the iron uniform code. Teachers who once training and education for the sake of a job problems, to the growing corporate policies majorfrom SaintMary's and a regular View­questioned the color of my not quite navy should be the only correct pathway in life. ofhiring only candidateswho have had a more pointcolumnist. 


Life is too short to spend it being a 'throat' 
Today marks the eve of the first 1985-86 More to the point, I am talking ofwinning and someone else. This is an unhealthy, harmful the amount of time spent studying. The throat Notre Dame football confrontation-the Fight­competition as it relates to us daily under the way to approach winning. It surfaces many and the well-rounded student may very well , ing Irish versus U. of M.(GOOOOOOOOOO Dome. Often, and especially at a highly com­times in a condition known as "cuttus study the same amount of hours. The dif­Irish -Beat Wolverines!!) In light ofthis, today petitive, goal-oriented university such as throatus maximus" more commonly ference between the academically motivated 

Notre Dame, students feel pressure to com­recognized as "throating out." When this oc­and the throat lies is that to the throat study­pete with their peers, to be the best, to win. curs, the "throat" approaches all around him, ing is everything and is done in competition
Carol Brown 

J 
( 
jj l! 

Taken in a healthy spirit, this drive for ac­especially that which is academic, in the spirit with others. The healthy student treats hievement can act as a great motivation to of "cutthroat competition," hence the term academics as only one aspect of his life, in these times work to be the best that you can be. "throat." however important it may be. Furthermore, 
It is very important, however, to realize that The throat, building a wall of selfishness this student merely competes with himself in I will use my column to talk a little about what striving to be the bestyou can be is very much around himself, hoards his knowledge, refus­an effort to better himself; he is not concerned the Irish will do tomorrow afternoon -WIN! different than competing to be better than ing to share or help others to learn. In doing with excelling over his peers. 
so, the throat deprives himself of much he Ifthe throat thinks he is "winning," he may could learn from others. In essence, the throat be, but the only person he is defeating is him­merely "cuts his own throat." Although it may self. After all is said and done, what has a throat sound like a cliche, ·it is very valuable to "won" after hiding his nose in a book for four remember it is in helping each other that we years? A 4.0 possibly, but what does that mean help ourselves. in real life, life after college? The throat leaves 
11le throat also follows a highly unbalanced college missing the most important things of set of priorities. Placing the importance of all: true friends; real growth as a person; and a grades and academic success above all, the knowledge which cannot be obtained throat is forgetting that learning is more than through books -the knowledge ofhow to ex­just books-much, much more. He is depriving cell at being human. himself of the vast amount of growth and So all you throats and occassional throats learning that the total college experience of. (sort of like weekend partiers or social fers students. The throat is forgetting that drinkers), do not get sore (no pun intended) growth comes from the special interaction when I say it is time to break out ofyour shells' and giving of friendships, from er.joying and It is time to lighten up and enjoy life. Life is appreciating God's great world and from just much too short and precious to be wasted on having fun. the inside of a book. Take time to reach out 
Please do not misunderstand my point by from yourself and help others. You may be equating the throat with the academically surprised at how much they will help you in motivated; I would hope that all ofus are that. return. Always remember, when things start Being a serious student, not necessarily a getting tough and you feel your life being con· serious person, is a quality to be admired. trolled by grades and books, all throats even· After all, this is why we all gather at this great tually choke or at least get strep. place oflearning in the first place · to educate ourselves. But I hope we also come here in the Carol Brown is a sophomore in the College hopes that we will excell and grow in all areas ofArts an~ Letters and a regular Viewpoint of life. Being a throat has nothing to do with columnist. 

ViewP-oint Friday, September 13, 1985 -page 9 ~~ 
P.O. BoxQ 
Barlow very wrong on lack of campus security 
DearEditor: 

I am writing in regard to Andy Barlow's ar­ticle on the "simple solution to the security problem at NO." As a former student security guard, I feel adequately knowledgable to reply to his Viewpoint article. I must first clarify the fact that if the article was written for satirical purposes, its humor must not have made it through the printing press. Furthermore, as a member of this community, Mr. Barlow has failed to understand the importance and the corresponding responsibility involved in writing on the subject of security. Hence, keeping in mind that his article was neither humorous nor responsible, let me point out some ofthe serious faults ofhis article. 
First, Mr. Barlow states that "There has not been any real trouble in the past," just in the last four months. He continues this falsehood by comparing the campus to inner-city Chicago, saying that "rapes, shootings and theft are becoming common." Barlow is grossly incorrect in his summation of our campus security problems. One, Notre Dame has had only one rape in seven years. IfNotre Dame compared to the national average of sexual assaults, there would be close to seven per year. Secondly, the shooting incident of the last month was a freak accident. I do not think it is grounds to rename Cartier Field "Sniper Alley." Barlow's greatest miscalcula­tion, however, is inferring theft on campus has begun to occur recently. I would like him to tell that to the hundreds ofstudents who have had their bikes, books or wallets stolen in the last few years. • 
Theft on campus has always been a problem at Notre Dame. Yet, the problem is not due to a lack of security. Rather, it is the result of a lack of responsibility and awareness of every member of this community. I do not feel, as Barlow proposes, the need for ROTC to patrol the road to Saint Mary's. I do feel, however, that it is the duty of every student on both both campuses to protect themselves from theft or assault. There is no reason for a female student to walk along that road at night alone; both security forces provide an escort service if the shuttle is not running. This respon· sibility also includes those students who believe that Notre Dame is an isolated paradise where theft does not exist. These are the students who walk into Security and cry that their new S400 bike was stolen; then when asked if the bike was locked, they reply, " No, but I was only inside for just a few minutes." In conclusion, I would like to repeat my beliefthat there is no need for our campus to resemble Fort Knox, and ·become the practice field for an over zealous Marine guard. Ifstudents and other community mem­bers became aware of the environment around them, and took seriously the respon­sibility for protecting themselves and others from theft or assault, then perhaps our campus would come to resemble the inner-city of Mayberry, USA. 
Kevin Flynn Morrissey Hall 

Birth control need not be taught to our youth 
DearEditor: 

Ironically, those who tend to be the most vocal in disagreeing with the Catholic Church's position on birth control are those with the least understanding ofit. 
In his Viewpoint column of Tuesday, Sept. 1 0, Bill Krais stated, "the Catholic Church espouses sexual intercourse only as a procreative method." His narrow interpreta­tion ofChurch teaching is unfortunately com­mon. "Humanae Vitae" merely states that 
"each and every marriage act must remain 
open to the transmission of life." What the 
church espouses is sexual intercourse that is 
not disassociated from authentic human love ­
sex that is responsible, mature, giving and 
receptive to the will ofGod. 
Actually, Krais' basic argument is tenable, 
the public does need to be educated. His ex­
planation ofhow (i.e. in methods ofbirth con­
trol) and why, however, reflect distorted 
reasoning. Under the pretense of 
courageously addressing the sexual activity of 
the young, advocates of birth control are 
retreating from the real challenge. Sure, we 
could campaign to educate our children 
about contraception, but then we really are 
not doing them any favors. Our children need 
to be educated about their sexuality, about 
human relationships that are healthy and 
whole, about respect for others and respect 
for self. It is a terrible reflection of modem 
man's understanding ofsex if all he can say to 
his children about it is "you don't want to get 
pregnant-here's how to prevent it." 
Finally, Krais closes his editorial by echoing 
the infelicitous call of pro-choice advocates: 
"every child a wanted child." This is a cry of 
thinly veiled selfishness, one that reflects an 
unwillingness to defer to other human beings 
their existence and their needs. It is a cry 
through which the quality of life ethic rever­
berates. This ethic holds that human life 
should be protected onlywhen one is deemed 
capable of "a meaningful existence." The in­
creasingly common practice of euthanasia, 
the rising number of abortions performed 
every year and the recent Infant Doe cases all 
reflect our society's perilous preoccupation 
with "quality" beings. In our ardent pursuit of 
"the good life," we have overlooked the good 
and we have undervalued life. 
Those who embrace the quality oflife ethic 
should listen carefully to the parable of the 
loaves and the fishes. Perhaps then they will 
not be so covetous of their possessions and 
their time, nor so frightened by these 
"unwanted" human beings. 
Paradoxically, these who so often are 
dehumanized, these who seem to have so 
little, are the most poignant reminders we 
have of human dignity and individual worth. 
Just spend a day with the mentally and physi­
cally handicapped at Logan Center and NISH ­
most ofwhom would fall into the "unwanted" 
category -to understand what I mean. Ifone's 
capacity to contribute is requisite for 
"meaningful existence" (as the quality of life 
ethic suggests) then the lives of these in­
dividuals, who give to others unconditionally 
and without effort, embody a meaning and 
quality that most ofus could onlyhope to em­
ulate. 

Teresa Donovan Farley Hall 
Kollman wrong about apartheid solution 
DearEditor: 

I would like to respond to Ken Kollman's column ofSept. 9 concerning the complexity ofmatters in South Africa. I agree with his ob­servation that solutions regarding the ending of the apartheid system will not be simple, but I would like to attempt to respond to his con­cerns on the question of the constitution of a future South African state in the event of an end to white minority rule. 
Kollman pointed out that South African whites, especially Afrikaners, are unlikely to commit political suicide by converting the South African "democracy" into a one­man/one-vote system which would include the black majority and thus transfer political power into their hands. 
First of all, one-man/one-vote is an over­simplified concept (especially since what is factions by minimizing power concentration really meant is one-person/one-vote.) It does and thus avoiding the discontent and violence not give a full description ofa political system, which arise from political inefficacy and, in and it certainly does not bestow equal power the extreme, oppression. A future South to all eligible voters as the term might seem to African state would certainly be best fitted by imply. Voters in Rhode Island have more the latter model. voting power than voters in California simply Some of the mechanisms for power sharing because of the way membership in the U.S. and protection of minorities included in this Senate is allocated. The Senate was es­model are the followering: an upper house tablished to give equal power to all states of (equivalent to the U.S. Senate) with member­the union, not proportional representation to ship based on equal representation ofrival ter­all voters. ritorial, religious or racial groups; 
The U.S. Senate was meant to protect small proportional representation rather than states, and in similar fashion, other institu­plurality (winner-take-all) election systems tional means for the protection of minorities for the lower house. The two previous institu­have been developed in the various tional arrangements depend on equal power democracies of this world. Should South in the two houses (balanced bicameralism.) African whites become a minority without ab­Other mechasnisms include: federalism or solute power, these means of protection decentralized rule wherein the central could be incorporated into the new state's government shares power with state and local constitution. government; executive power-sharing, i.e. 
Those who have taken an introductory cabinet ministerships allocated equally course in comparative government should be ainong parties or rival groups; and, a supreme aware of the distinction between the court with the power to interpret the con­"consensus" and "majoritarian" stitution and review legislative decisions. (Westminster) models of democracy. The We cannot rule out the possibility that Westminster model is adept for largely some well thought out constitutional arrange­homogenous societies such as the British one ment could help bring a stable future to South from whose p~liament the model derives its Africa, but negotiations with legitimate black name. The consensus model, on the other leaders must take place soon, or the risiqg tide hand, is usually found in countries in which ofviolence will wash away all hope ofrational many religious, ideological or linguistic solutions. cleavages. divide society. It is designed to ac­Patrick A. Mullen hieve consensus among the various existing Keenan Hall 

Quote of the day 
"Winning is not a sometime thing. You don't win once-in-awhlle. You don't do things right once-in-awhlle. You do them right all the time. 
Winning is a habit. Unfortunately, so is losing. There is no room for second place. There is only one place in my game and that is first place. There is a second place bowl game -but it is a game for losers played by losers. Itis and always has been an American zeal to be first in anything we do, and to win, and to win, and to win. 
Every time a football player goes out to play, he's got to play from the ground up. From the soles ofhis feet right up to his head. Every inch of himhas to play. Some guys playwith their heads. That's okay-you've got to be smart to be number one in my business, but more important, you've got to play with your heart. With every fiber ofyour body. Hyou at'e lucky enough to find a guy with a lot ofhead and a lot ofheart, he's never going to come offofthe field second. 
Running a football team is no ditferent from n1nning any other kind of organization -an army, a political party, a business. The problems at'e the same. The objective is to win. To beat the other guy. Maybe that sounds hard orcruel. I don't thinkit is. 
It is reality of life that men are competitive and the most competitive games draw the most competitive men. lbat's why they're there -to compete. They know the rules and the objectives when they get in the game. The objective is to win -fairly, squarely, decently, by the rules ­but to win. And in truth, I have never known a manworth his saltwho in the long run, deep down in his heatt, did not appreciate the grind • the discipline. There is something ingood men that really yearns for ..• needs ... discipline and the harsh reality ofhead-to-head combat. 
I don't say these things because I believe inthe"brute"nature ofman, or that men must be brutalized to be competitive. I believe in God and I believe in human decency. But I firmly believe that any man's finest hours, his greatest fnlfl11ment to all he holds dear, is the momentwhen he has worked his heart out in a good cause and lies exhausted on the field ofbattle victorious. 
Vince Lambardi 


Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager...................... Dav1d Stephenitch 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan Controlier ............................. William J. Highducheck News Editor ...................................Keith Harrison Jr Advertising Manager ..............................Jim Hagan
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCuHough Systems Manager......................... Mark B. Johnson
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol1cies of the 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Production Manager ....................... John A. Mennell
administration of either instirution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­
Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb
Sible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy
taries. leHers and ·the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is 
Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy
available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches
campus. through leHers, is encouraged. 
Copy Chief ..............................................Frank Upo Founded November 3,1966 

------------------------~-------~----~------~----------~----------~---------------------.----------------------~~--... 
.; 
Accent 
Amidst scarcity 
' 
'' L 

they infuse love in saDimer work 
Jane Anne Riedford 
features writer 


S 

ummer is a time ofchange. For these students were not simply 
most students, this change means "interns," a term used to describe packing their bags and heading students who receive only observa­home to a new job and old friends. tional experience. Most students For 63 Notre Dame students, served the disadvantaged directly. however, this summer was one of Those who did not have "hands­service. on" experience were working in 
organizational positions crucial to 
"1!
•'i The Notre Dame Summer Service the group they sen•ed. The students 
Project program provides oppor­did not just observe the work of 
.. ,
._, tunities for students to volunteer dedicated Christians, they became a eight weeks oftheir summer to the vital part of the Christian ministry. service ofthe poor or disad­The projects benefit not only vantaged. The projects are arranged service organizations. Notre Dame through the Center for Social Con­alumni clubs set up projects in their cerns and alumni groups all over area, and meet with the students the country. periodically throughout the sum­
' ' 
Organizations interested in ob­mer. Through the students, mem­
I 
taining a student volunteer apply to bers ofthe alumni club become the center, and the Summer Service more aware ofservice oppor­Project Coordinator, Marty tunities; they often become in­Kenahan, along with local alumni volved personally in students' contacts, selects suitable projects. projects. For Notre Dame alumni, 

In February ofthis year, students the Summer Service Project par­began submitting initial applica­ticipants are an important contact tions. The selection committee with the University and its ongoing then interviewed each student, ministry. finally chosing 63 students out of Students who participate in the the 140 who applied. Summer Service Project program I) Summer Service participants receive a $1200 tuition credit to
·, 
worked in soup kitchens and free them from the financial strain womens' shelters; with ex-convicts ofcommitting 40 hours per week to and street people. Their respon­their projects. Scholarships come sibilities ranged from mopping from alumni cohtributions, from floors to visiting shut-ins. grants, or from the service organiza­

Kenahan described the respon­tions for which the students work. sibilities ofSummer Service Project Anyone interested in a Summer participants as; "Anything that helps Service Project for next year should the accomplishment ofservice to contact Marty Kenahan at the the poor." She stressed the fact that Center for Social Concerns. 
I I
,,, 
l1 
I 
! 
:I 
.(f
i't
., 
' 
·~_-.(.I( 
I 
r 
Junior Jim Falvey talks to a protestor at Lafayette Park in the capitol.
\:; 
I I 

·I 
I 
'I 
.. 1 

, 
-~ 

~'.-~:~.-/_, " .~ ~~~ t ;~_;:"··" ~ -:; It 
\""'1.:-"'1' -..-• { ~-'i .
\:; ,; -· ·" ...... . ' . 
Laura Chagnon. an •s4 ND graduate. talks to the homeless at a shelter. 

·:::~?~:.•
.•><~·~· . 


•·" 
·, 
Handsome Brian Pope. 4. is surprised by the free ride he's given by Jim Flynn during Flynn's summer project. 
They begin, eager to understand; they leave, aware of their mission 
it difficult to know when they

Jane Anne Riedford 
S 
are truly happy. For the first time features writer in my life, I've met happy people. They are poor, many are tudents who volunteer course ofone day, students sick, yet they are happy. I've eight weeks of their summer would be involved in several decided that I can be happy if I obviously expect to give oftheir areas ofservice, as the majority choose to be happy." energy and enthusiasm, their ofthe projects involved com­Political views are apt to love and compassion. They find, binations oftwo or more social change during and after a sum­however that the rewards in programs. A student might begin mer service project. Jim Falvey, doing a project far outweigh the the day serving breakfast at a a St. Edward's junior whose giving. shelter for homeless people, project was located in Was­
Their surprising rewards in­then spend the rest ofthe mor­hington D.C., had the unique dude a better awareness ofso­ning in a Legal Aid office. That experience ofseeing contrasting cial issues, meaningful afternoon, he or she might work attitudes from the politicians relationships with people in all alongside other volunteers in a and the street people, walks oflife, and deep ex­gardening project for the poor. sometimes during the same day. periences in faith. In addition, Aquestion that plagued many For most of the other students, students learn lessons that they students in their work with the simply working with the poor will carry with them for the rest poor and disadvantaged was that improved their awareness of oftheir lives. ofacceptance ofconditions. political and social issues. 
They see poverty and social Many people, though poor in the For example, one student 
injustice first-hand. For example, eyes of the typical middle-class,· worked for a housing program, 
many youngsters, without the have strong faith in God and which enabled her to observe 
availability ofday-care centers, believe that God will take care of deplorable housing conditions, 
are left alone while both parents their needs. These people are governmental red tape, and the 
are working. Students who often happier than the volun­shattered lives which result from encounter these children during teers that help them simply be­both. 
their projects see the lack of 
cause they have accepted the In the end, Summer Service day-care for the poor as much trials oftheir lives as easily as the Project participants are faced more than another issue. To joys. with many responsibilities: a 
them, these children are the 
One young woman found responsibility to take action prisoners ofscarcity, not num­personal happiness through her against the injustices they have bers in a report. witnessing of "acceptance of witnesed and a responsibility to 
Most Summer Service Project conditions." keep learning. Most importantly, participants work 40 hours a She observed, "Many people they have the responsibility to week, and many live in or near find it easy to recognize their spread the news ofGod's people their project site. During the own unhappiness. vet thev find in.need. 
Friday, September 13, 1985 -page 10 -11 
A canine is man's best friend, not his equal 
beautiful enough to be show dogs -which they can live up to. I teel to "Uncle Tom's Cabin". The police
Rev. 
were still leaving their calling cards sorry for creatures with names like probably don't have a comfortable in the middle ofthe room. Buffy and Taffy, because then you time when students, half in their
Robert 
Nobody's mother welcomes a collie can't tell ifthey're "sir" or cups, snarl at them churlishly. The 
Griffin 
the size of Bullmoose that treats the "madam". I hate the question: "Is boys in blue have tough jobs for parlor like the great out-of-doors. your dog a boy or a girl?" Actually, which I wish to respect them. I hate Letters to a lonely God That is why you sometimes meet I'm tempted to reply, "he's only a to read where they've brought 
dogs set loose in the city, turned dog," hoping to make the point that down a 19-year-old with the K-9 corps, and let a thief go because
the sponsor and patron ofa for attention; but he isn't dumb, like out by students who got tired of God created dogs male and female,
A 
s they were inefficienl.
famous cocker spaniel named a toy that stays motionless, asking having them as a hobby. like all other creatures. 
Darby O'Gill II, I would like to have nothing. Mutts sporting 57 varieties of It's a lonely crusade I carry on; Snakes shouldn't be running a heart-to-heart talk with off­Ifyou're picking out a dog. be bloodlines may have the hearts of however, accuracy in labelling is around loose, and neither should campus seniors who feel that off­sure that you can afford him, and champions. The saying is: a important. One ofthe most won­dogs. My first Darby O'Gill was 
campus happiness is owning a cute that you have time for him. Dogs pedigreed pooch is no more than a derful pet names I've ever heard is arrested years ago. A campus puppy with a wet nose. Home, for don't grow up healthy on table dog; one whose mother didn't that of Bill the Cat, from "Bloom security officer put the cuffs on move fast enough as an artful County". That feline knows where him, looped through his collar, for 
you, meant that the family pooch scraps, nourished this way, they can was waiting to greet you at the door die ofmalnutrition, because they dodger is no less than a dog. he is going as a rough, tough alley running around loose. Walking 
like an animated welcome mat; and don't thrive on garbage. Dogs, from Knowing that you have a cat. You wouldn't dare to spoil an Darby from the bookstore to so, now your own digs should also birth, are threatened by canine thoroughbred is helpful because animal who's had his personality Keenan, the officer kept replying, to you can predict how the dog will students who said "Hello, Darby," 
have its official greeter. illnesses that can ruin them. They shaped by a wild and crazy Let me warn you; if you're start­have to make several trips a year to turn out in terms ofsize and habits. monicker like Bill the Cat. "My name isn't Darby." He brought the dog home because he was being
ing from scratch, with an eight­the vet's office, to get the protective Cuteness in a puppy ofunspecified Marty Python, on the other hand, 
week-old animal, you have to work vaccines; these visits can cost you vintage isn't enough of a credential was a hard-luck snake. According to nice. The dog was in trouble, and it at having a young pet harder than S50 or S75 apiece. You owe it to unless you're very broadminded the papers, the police released a was my fault. you would have to work at a new your dog to keep him protected. about how the product turns out. thiefcaught burgling the campus It's the nature ofdogs to think marriage. Dogs are a domesticated species. The dear little castaway without because, in arresting him, they that they are welcome everywhere. 
You're not setting up a partner­That means that they are happy visible parents may be big enough forgot to read him his rights. They don't understand the danger ship ofequals, because the dog has being part ofa home with people at seven months to work on a stud Nobody mentioned reading Marty ofspeeding cars, or the sancity of farm. So, ifyou're picking a can­Python his rights; the poor, dumb the neighbor's lawn, or that garbage
only instincts, and you are the providing for them and giving them member of the team that supplies an identity. They are not happy didate that you wish to be Fido serpent didn't have any rights. Last cans are not left out to be the prizes the brains, the patience, and the · staying in a cellar, waiting for you to breathing love on you -and you're year, the papers carried another ofa scavenger's hunt. money. New babies are even more stroll home from the campus, after not a good sport when nature pulls story I wondered about. An un­You can never trust a dog to shift helpless than puppies; but a puppy 10 hours away. You can't leave a surprise -don't think it's a kind­derage student was drinking beer at for himself. He isn't just there as a seems more helpless than you them, untrained, to chew on the ness to favor the underdog with a porch party. The police showed playmate; he's there to be worried would like him to be when you hear furniture and wet on the rug. Maybe eyes like brownies melting in milk. up to check I.D.'s, and the student over. Ifyou don't take the time to him whimpering at night, lonesome that's a sign that you'd be wiser not It helps to be St. Francis, if you're ran away from them. They pursued be concerned about him as much as he needs, then you don't love him
and strange in a new place, missing to have a dog. considering the adoption ofa wolf. him with dogs, the newspapers said. the warmth ofhis mother and the I've met half-grown dogs that Dogs are only dogs. What they The dogs finally caught him a block enough. Unloved dogs don't stand other siblings ofhis litter. A ticking spent half their lives in a cellar. The are in being dog-like is rather won­away. They didn't hurt him very much ofa chance ofli~ing very alarm clock wrapped in a sweatshirt lads that adopted them couldn't fit derful, so it's a mistake to treat them much, as I remember the details; long. The world feels there are 
will comfort him into believing he house-breaking into the schedule. like people, which only spoils them their teeth didn't break the skin. more important things to worry isn't alone. A puppy crying for help In May, when these seniors in doing what they do best. They Pursuit with dogs is the way they about than a dog without a master isn't sophisticated in his demands graduated, the dogs -some ofthem should be given names, I think, treated runaway slaves. accordin2 to keep him housed and fed. 
Movies
I 


•Tired ofreality? Terrify yourselfat "Friday the 13th", this week's Student Activities Board feature at the Engineering Auditorium. Starring Betsy Palmer, Adrienne King, and Harry Crosby, this chilling shocker is guaranteed to entertain you. Strange things happen at Crystal Lake Camp. Counselors are murdered, one by one, in a grisly fashion until only one surviver remains. The crazed killer pursues the survivor, a terrified girl, through the moonlit darkness -but is the bloodthirsty maniac the only malevolent force at the camp? Find out at the film tonight or tomorrow night at 7, 9 or 11 
p.m. Tickets are $1.50. 
•Smile as you enjoy "Life is a Bed of Roses". Appearing tonight at the Annen­berg Auditorium, this film is a comedy on the futiliy of man's desire for Utopia. Actress Geraldine Chaplin and actors Ruggero Raimondi and Vittorio Gassman star as a band ofcharacters who attempt to re-experience their birth traumas and begin life anew. The film starts at 7:30 and 9:30p.m. and tickets are S3. 


These interesting pieces will be on display at the University Park Mall thru Sept. 23. 
•Laugh until you cry while watching the comedy "Life with Father" tonight and tomorrow night at the Bristol Opera House. This light-hearted frolic through the 1880s is rooted in truth. Characters and incidents are taken from the daily chronicles kept by Clarence Day Jr. about life in the day home. Mother and her four bOys plot their serendipitous way to success in an all-out attempt to baptize Father against his will. The show begins at 
8:1 5 p.m. Call 848-41 16 for ticket in­formation. 
Mass 


Music 


•listen to the Gaelic sounds of "Scanaglen" tonight in Saint 'Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium. This Kansas City-based band has a sound all its own, which some say is reminiscent ofearly rock and others compare to bluegrass. The eight-member group's music, firmly rooted in Celtic folk material, ranges from easy-listening to raucous dance. The evening promises to get your pulse pounding and your hands clapping. Tick­ets are S4.50, S5.50, and S6.50, and are available at the Auditorium Ticket Office. Notre Dame students receive a $1 dis­count and admission is free for Saint Mary's students. 
Art 


eObserve the unusual at the 1985 Lego Americana Road Show. This event includes 1 0 National Monuments con­structed completely from Lego blocks. 
Misc. 

•Show 
your support ofNotre Dame's own Albert Summerlin by attending "hwerVision," an art exhibition and reception to be held at the Colfax Cultural Center. Summerlin is a member of the physical plant staff at Decio Hall who cultivates his artistic talent in his spare time. The event will begin with a recep­tion, tonight at 7, at the Center, on 914 lincolnway West. 

•The 
exhibition "Eleanor and Bar­~" photographs by Harry Callahan, will open Sunday at The Snite Museum of Art. Callahan, well known for his multiple­exposures and high-contrast printing qualities, shot a series of photographs of his wife, Eleanor, and their daughter, Barbara. Extended portraits ofthe two include straightforward images as well as manipulated multiple exposures. This series shows the most comprehensive, personal, and impressive body ofwork in Callahan's 40-year career. The exhibition will be on display through Oct. 27 in the Print, Drawing and Photography Gallery 


between 1 and 4 p.m. 
•The achievements ofinternationally­acclaimed artist George Rickey continue on display until Oct. 13 at various sites in the South Bend area. The Snite Museum exhibit features maquettes and photo murals; Saint Mary's displays jewelry, small sculptures and figurative drawings; and the South Bend Art Center shows medium-to-large indoor sculpture. 
-opening with a reception Sunday in the Women's Art League Gallery of the Art Center is the 1985 Art Center Faculty Exhibidon. This exhibit features works in aU media by the instructors in the Studio Program at the Center. 

The celebrants for Mass at Sacred Heart Church this weekend will be: Father Michael Couhig at 5:15p.m. 
(Saturday night vigil). Father Thomas Blantz at 9 a.m. Father Peter· Rocca at 10:30 a.m. Father Peter Rocca at 12:1 5 p.m. 
----~~--­

r 
The Observer Friday, September 13, 1985 -page 12 


Come and Praise Him 
Share your Spontaneous, Scriptural 
pirit-filled prayer with a new 
CRISTO REY sponsored by University .............,try on Monday, September 16, at 7:00p.m. t the Center for Social Concerns' library area. 
J 

8~~ . ~~ 
Toes, Sept. 17 7:30pm or Wed, Sept. 18 10:00pm 
Sacred Heart Church 

Those who were commissioned last year would need only to sign up with their Rectors or community leader in order to serve this year. 
which meel diocesan regulations across lhe couniTy
-Pre-Cana Information Meeting for Engaged Couples: 
\ 
Wednesday, Septerpber 18 at 7:30p.m. in the Library Lounge 
-Host Couple Program 4-5 sessions ($25) 

• Pre..Cana Weekend November 15-16 ($80) February 7-8 
March 7-8 Aprilll-12 
OFFICE OF UNIVERSITY MINISTRY 
..• encourages hall staN and students to be Involved In promotion, preparation, and presentation • 
.•• provides ass/stance In planning themes and Ideas. 
•.. will help arrange lor a location and for food from ND Catering Service • 
Who gets the ball rolling ? 
Any Individual or group that Is Interested csn contact Hall StaN, UturgiCIII Commissioner 
or 
UNIVERSITY MINISTRY 


-Trained counselors are available to assist Notre Dame students in the discernment of their own consciences regarding whether or not they are morally willing to fight in a war. 
fE~nkd~ 
Information Session Conducted by Fr. AndreLeveilll, C.S. C. Sunday, Sept. 29 Library Lounge 
2:00tY'IUaka£ f!/J~ and /¥ull ~ 
J/--· • 

for unbaptised persons wishing to become a member of the Roman Catholic Church 
for baptised persons wanting Full Communion in the Catholic Tradition 
for those desiring to know more about the Roman Catholic faith 

for baptised Catholics 

desiring to celebrate 
the Sacrament of Confirmation 

,J985-86 
Rev. Andre Leveille, c.s.c., Director 

103 Memorial Library (239-6536) Catechumenate/Confirmation ......... Rev. AndrlL~veilJl, C.S.C. Michael Alcoser, C.S.C. Assistant Director ••••••••••••••...•• Priscilla Wong Secretary ...•.•.•.....•.•..........Anne Scheu 
Badin Halt !239-5242) "Catholic Faith Program" •.••......... Sr. Jodie Screes, O.P. Draft & Military Counseling and Social Action •...••••.......•.. Margaret Garvey Liturgy ..•.....•.•...•.•.......•.. Rev. Robert Kennedy Liturgical Music .••••.••••••••••.•.• Steve Warner Marriage Preparation (Pre-Cana) ......• Joan Milani, Coordinator Terry Coonan, C.S.C. Sr. Nadine Overbeck, O.S.F. Tracey Sandman Retreat ..•.........•....•....•.•.• Sr. Jo (Annette) Giarrante, O.S.F. University Village Married Students ••..••••.••..•..••Mary Romer Cline Secretary .•..••••.••..••••••......•Helen Bennett 
Sacred Heart Church (239-7091} Rector .••.•.•.•••••.•.••••.•.••.• ,Kev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C Associate Rector .•••••••••••••••••. ,Rev. Peter Rocca, C.S.C. 
I>eaeon ••••....•••......••.••••..•Thomas Streit, ~. S. C University Sacristan ••.•..••.•••••.• ,Bro. Dennis Meyers, C.S.C. Secretary .....•.•......•••...••..•.Tammy Wallock 
Chaplains Athletic .....•...•.••.....•........ Rev. Joseph Carey, C.S.C. Rev. James Riehle, C.S.C. Prayer Groups .......... ~ ........... Rev. AI D'Alonzo, C.S.C. Staff .....•..................••••. Rev. Jerry Knoll, C.S.C. Student Health Center .•.••.....•..... Rev. Michael O'Brien, C.S.C. University Chaplain ........• .' •....•. Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. University Village •....•......••..•.. Rev. Richard Szippl 
Sports Briefs 
The Notre Datne-Michigan football game will be broadcast live on WVFI (AM.64 )on Saturday, beginning at noon. Pete Pranica and Joe Malvezzi will provide the play-by-play, and Brent Musburger ofCBS will be featured at halftime. -The Observer 
Interhall officials are neededfor football and 
soccer. For more information, contact the NVA office in the ACC. ­
The Obseroer 

The ND Women's Soccer Club will be travel­
ing to Michigan State today for a 4 p.m. game. -The Observer 
The ND/SMC Women's GolfClub will play 
at the Ferris State Invitational in Big Rapids, Mich., this weekend. ­
The Obseroer 

The ND Squash Club will play the Michigan Squash Club tomorrow in the CCRB Building following the football game. Anyone who is interested may stop by. For more information, call William Mapother at 283-3451. -The Obseroer 
Friday, Sept!mber 13, 1985 -page 13 
Irish 
continuedfrom page 20 
team's overall play before heading into the Midwest Regional Tourney in November. 
The Irish are scheduled to com­pete against Wooster, Trenton State, Franklin & Marshall, and LaSalle. 
CANCER. 
NOT 
KNOWING 
THE RISKS 
ISYOUR 
GREATEST 

The ND Water Polo Club will play Michigan today at 6:30p.m. in the Michigan I.M. Pool in the center of the Ann Arbor campus. -The Observer 
The ND Weight and Fitness Club will hold its first instructional session on weight, nautilus, and flexibility train­ing on Sunday from 2-4 p.m. in the Rockne weight room. All are invited to attend. The club's first workout will be Monday from 4-6 
p.m. at the Rock.-The Obseroer. 
The ND Rugby Club will play at Michigan tomorrow. The games will start at 9 a.m. Michigan time, just a few blocks from the football stadium. Any spectators would be welcome. -The Obseroer 
Novice Boxing Tournament workouts will 
begin Monday at 4 p.m. in the boxing room in the ACC. Anyone who wishes to learn basic boxing skills, prepare for the Bengal BoutS or just get into top condition is invited to attend. Upperclassmen with experience are invited to workout, although they will be excluded from the novice tournament. · The Obseroer 
see BRIEFS, page 17 
RISK. 

The Obserz•f!r Nutr~ Oam~ offin:. fm:att:d on tht: third floor Qf Lafortune Stud~nt Center. an:epts dassified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m.. Monday through Friday. The Obserr•er Saint Mary's offiC.:l'. hKatt:d on the third floor of Haggar Collc:gt: Center. an·~pts dassifit-ds from I.L~O p.m until 3 p.m.. :\ion· day though Friday. Deadline: for next-day dassifil·ds is :\ p.m All classifit:ds must bt: prepaid. c:itht:r in person or h\· mail. Chargt: i" I 0 ~_·ents per five: <:harac­
Classifieds 
ters 


REWARD•!!!! LOST TIGER'S EYE and PLEASE HELP!!! I NEED 4 MSU G.A:a OAR HOUSE: COLO BEER & UOUOA. VOLUNTEERS NEEDED ()peninga lor GOLD BEADED BRACELET! OF GREAT 283-1940 CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N., 1 S.T.E.P. juvenile tutoring Both old 8fld[ NOTICES SENTIMENTAL VALUE TO ME!!!! IF TICKETS BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. new tutors wecome. lntereeted? Orienta· FOUND, PLEASE CAll STEPHANIE AT Desperately seeking 2 GA'I for the ARMY 
tion at South Bend Juvenile Facitity next 

1327. THANKS!' game (Oct. 19). WiNing to pay big buckl. Monday or Thuraday night. TrafliPC)fta­
THE CONTINUING SAGA ... "Don't try tion provided. Meet II ~brWy lobby It
Call Trina 4231 

PRo-TYPE Over 15 yr~exp. Specillizing 
I need 2 and/or 4 GA'a for Michigan State auicide ..... Andrea: Have you ~ your
LOST Gold Seiko Quartz Watch. Maybe 7:00pm. Ouestiona? Cllll Tracy 4241. 
•n student papera, rMUmee, dillertl· u aoon u po~~~~ble. Call Mike at 1806 brother lately? Wick: "I want you, I need tiona, law papera2n-5833 
around or in Neiuland SCience Hll. Value DESPERATELY NEED 1 MICHIGAN you ... " Cora: Do you know where you're
mostly aentimentai.PLEASE cal Tom at STATE TICKET. MICHELLE 284-4288. Electrolyaia Dermatologill approved
I NEED USC GA 1 Have caah & home atanding? Pam: Have you found more
3810. (622Grace) Gnld.Kree N.Y. Stari~zed, latell eQUip­TYPING AVAILA8l.E 
GA's for trade: Call DAVE 1712 "buiY work?" Core: Better 1tart acoping! 
ment,student rstea. Ladiea only. Day-eve.
NEED 3 USC OR 4 MISS. GA'S FOR287-4082 Don't forget' Oct. 12 ia fall approaching!

FOUND: ONE RAMBO POSTER SOME· CUTE IRISH PRIESTS WILL PAY ANY 291·9613
Need 4 GA'S FOR ARMY GAME!!
WHERE IN CAMPUS VIEW. WILL PRICE! CALL MARY 284-5442 
PLEASE CALL 272-4540
RETURN FOR MONETARY THANKYOU ST. JUDE YELLOW CABS are they yellow or are
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8117 GRATIFICATION. CALL 284-4391 TO What? You don't need your MSU ltudent they orange?? we 10111 know by lltur·
NEED MICH ST STUD TIX. CALL JIM 
EXPERT TYPING 2n-8534 AFTER 5:30 IDENTIFY 1489 ticket? lan't that 1 coincidence! I do need Lead ainger/guitalilt looking to atart day!!!! a MSU student ticket. Pleue help me out band. Call Pat at 1088. ENDAD Loet • leather belt on Stepan Courta on ao that I don't have to watch the game THE SOCIAL EVENT OF THE YEAR • 
BUSINESS EXPRESS. INC. 

HELP! Need 2 MSU GAl. Will trlde MISS 
Wordproceung and typing Friday night. Please call1534 from the 13th floor of the UbrWy! Call Bob To "ANON." girt who invited me to SMC PAUL I KELLY'l WEDDING AT
or LSU, or pay$$$. ED 1857 
at3234 happy hour Jut fri: I got your letter Mon­IACftED HEART TODAY.
272-8827 

day! Dare we try again? Pleue c.11 me. Need 5 USC GA·a. Pay top dollar. Call ST. Mary'l Clothing Drive lor St. Vincent
UNCLE IAII WANTS YOU III SKIERS' Ale your edges rully? Bottoma To Olve Ups-Army G.A.'• 
Jody 239-7389 or 272-5289 Metal vocalil! needed. Call Jeff 2469. dePaul September 15 -October 6 See
FOR RENT 
bollea~dorm

of your boardl don't glide? Gougee kke Be All You can Be HAPPY BIRTHDAY
NEED 3 USC GA'I & 2Student t'a.Call kevin at 1824 CAROLYN AYLWARD! HAPPY BIRTHDAY IIETCH!! 
cratera on your bues? Bring your lkia to And Call Sammy .., 20n or 2078 
the beat ahop in town-·229 Zahm. Aak for (We offer caah, experience, and travel op­
HOPE IT'S THE BEGINNING OF A "Let'aeat"
Dave ROOMMATE WANTED. IRISH HILLS portunities.) APT. FURNISHED, CALL 291-8895, JIM 
SoCal Senior needs 2 USC ticketa for GREAT YEAR! 4more, Ylh! I'M SO GLAD YOU'RE HERE!! 
Volunt_. Poaitiona av&JIIIble for Com­MOM and DAD! Drew 2109 anytime IWOODDI4U... LOVE, SUSAN 
municat•on and Theatre producbona in: OFFICE SPACE (IDEAL FOR ATIOR· publiCity, promotion, program dealgn. NEY)740 SO.FT.-OFF·STREET I NEED TWO GA'S TO THE MSU DESPERATELY SEEKING SUSAN 8fld aound, and ~ghting. For informat•on call PARKING-BUSY DOWNTOWN GAME. CALL 2752 AFTER 5:00PM 
two student MSU tickets. Cll Ard'e t 475 AchtgPzKg SpexpdxdzMtnvzbkot happy birthday PRISCILLA KARLE Surl­FrodzwcmeXO 18Pzkpfw day ia her birthday ,but ahe wil be accept­
Tom Bartln at 239-5956. LOCATION-307 HILL STREET­CALL:233-0187 FOR MORE INFO. 
I WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR 3 ARMY ing calla 8fld kiiMI .. weelcend.
I DESPERATELY NEED MANY MSU HAPPY BIRTHDAY FITlY!!! lwu goingGA'S OR 4 LSU GA'S CAll STEVE ATEXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CAll TICKETS CALL MIKE 1476 
17330R 1757 to get you a young, imprellionable freah· HAPPY BIRTHDAY Clll Remember, if
MRS. COKER. 233-7009 LARGE 5 ROOM APARTMENT-1/HALF man, but you know how I feel about you feel ~ke 1 jerk on your birthday, order
8ATHS.2 BEDROOMS,307 HILL HELP I need 1 ,2, or 3 GA for Michigan St. 
STUDENT SEASON TICKET BOOK . human uc:riliut. Try to enjoy youraelf outlorone
STREET-$400. INCLUDES UTILITIES. Call Mike 1454. 

anyway!-·MB
FOR SALE CAll RAY 1581 ANOTHER ONE BITES THE OUST CALL 233-0187 PLEASE, I'M DESPERATE! IrS MY 
MOM IS DYING! WANTS TO SEE ONE MR. 0'1 THUR. & FRI. NITE PARTIES. ANOTHER AOUL T TO DEAL WITH
student efficiency $125.and utihtiea near BIRTHDAY ON THE 2111 • SELL ME 6 LAST NO GAME. CALL 1046 BEFORE LOVE YA Clll, EL
DANCING AND SPECIALS ALL NITE.
N.0.2558505;2594943 -MICH. ST. G.A.'S AND YOU'Ll BE All ARE WELCOME. BE THEAE!
TOO LATE

LOST/FOUND 
INVITED TO THE PARTY!! PLEASE HAPPY BIRTHDAY CILL, I LOVE YA,CALL ANNE 284·5048 
Fumiahed House Cloae to campus -6 IAIUNO CLUB REMEMBER DIAMOND
I need Mich. St. tix cal Stan 2341 MARIA THE FIRST DRINK AT SENIOR bdrm, 2 bathe Cd 2n·3461 LAKE REGATIA THIS WEEKEN<>­BARIS ON ME
HELP SAVE A LIFE. I need 2 ARMY SHUTTL.E LEAVES SMC 8, 10, 12AM-ND
REWARD-REWARD--REWARD­NEED 7 MSU TIX. 284-4048 
G.A.a If you are 1 true ~fesaver. call Pete
LOST AMETHYST and GOLD BEADED HEKING FEMALE ROOMMATE AT CIRCLE. IF YOU CAN DRIVE AND CLAI80F'88 BRACELET. GREAT SENTIMENTAL NOTRE DAilE APTS. CLOH TO 2448 NEED DIRECTIONS CALL 284-5312 OR Tailgater before U of M game! Pop &
NEED TIX FOR MICH STATE(3) BOB

VALUE TO ME'! IF FOUND. PLEASE CAIIPUI, INEXPEN81VE. CALL IIIC. 283-2805 FOR DIRECTIONS. munclliee! Bring your own ''beverage~"!
WHAT 00 YOU WANT FOR YOUR 1751
CAll GRETCHEN. AT 3299. HELE AT 28W710. Look for the CleM of '88 banner & a 2 tone 
II.I.U. TICKET? I'll WIWNG TO MEET 
PING, YOU'VE MET YOUR MATCH. Blaztll'.

ANY OFFER. I NEED 3 TICK~
FOUND: BASKETBALL OUTSIDE OF PONG.
ITUD/G.A. CALL ITEVE 3318-LET 2 STU. FT8l TIC BOOKLETS. BEST OF­
STEPAN COURTS LAST WEEK CALL CALL 284-4116. To "Concerned Dining Hal obeervera"­
liE TRY TO GET YOU WHAT YOU FER. CRAIG 3380 OR BETH 284-5200. 
1651 TO IDENTIFY. Your point wu well taken. but he'a 1'104 my
WANT IN EXCHANGE.
WANTED FRITZ! THIS TIME I JUST COULDN'T roommate. I did notice, though, that you STOLEN: Umbrella from South Dining RESIST. .. were lilting with II of your friendl ... ­
NEED TICKETS TO NO VS USC GAME 
Hall between 11:23 and 12:09 on Monday One of the "three"
CALL 2n 4324 EVENINGS BETWEEN To whoever ltole my aporta section Wed­
the 9th. It ia euily 1dentifillble.and if I­................................................................ 
6:00& 11:00 

you on campua with it, ... you don't want Prof. IHkJ co-ed to bebyait toddler one needay at Cavanaugh, May your favorite HELLO LONDONERIIIIII to know the rnt. Return it to the Ad Build­nite 1 week. 233-1873 after 6 p.m. bueball team languiah in Jut place lor How'a it going, Anne and Ali? Here'a 
PERSONALS 

Big$$$ for 2 MSU GA'a. Cal Rich at 283­
ing Loat and Found, or Holy CrOll Hell. the reel of your hie. By the -Y, the Jut aome nv•ng tipa from Save yourself physical and mental pain. NAUGLES needa delivery people for N.D. 3202 P8I'IOf'1 who alole my IPOrtlaection wu a Small-gab lunch at The cafe Bondily·7
Take your dying with aome aenoua­

& S.M.C. Car required. Apply in person. Ch1cago Cubl fan. and you know what Stratford St.. juat 
Need 2 Mich St tix X 11 n Larry ne~~. however. Laughing on the -y to 
happened to them...Repent before it ia your execution ia not generally under­
LOST DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT RING. around the comer from Albemlrle. Tel 
VERY IMPORTANT. PLEASE CON­FEMALE ROOMMATE TO SHARE too late. HertJ Tom and Gretluy hi!
I NEED TIXS FOR MICH & All HOME ltood by leu-advanced hie-forms. and
TACT ALICE AT 232·60691F FOUND. FULLY FURNISHED LUXURY APT. AT Work haa been extremely hectic-! ~unlly
GAMES.272-6306 they'l ell you aazy.
WILLIAMSBURG ON THE LAKE. QUIET L.AAURA • I've been on top of ihe world hve here.'Wiah you 
················ ............................. . ·Richard Bach, lluliona
LOST: Gold/silver imitation Rolex watch, COMPLEX CLOSE TO CAMPUS. NON­ever Iince I've gotten to know you. Your guya were here. All are going to U of M
I have Mich. and Mich. St. tix. Best offer. 
Jolt Sat. night(the 7th) 11 either Campus SMOKERS ONLY, CAll 256-5295 FOR have made all of my problema seem lmall game thia weekend. Meet
Eric 1527. DAN MURPHY
vi-. St.Louis St., or D·6. It wu a very MORE INFO. lnd have brightened my daya with your you in MinneSOTA on Jan.4. More later­
Happy Birthday! 

special gift. PLEASE HELP ME OUT! love. Thank You! Love. MCde
NEED 4 GA'S FOR MICH. STATE. CALL Wiah we were there,
Reward offered. pleue call Jim at 3649 Need ride to Deyton any weekend. Call 
284-4408. Joe & SLU-bound Jim 
(416Momaaey). THANKS!!! Mana4174. Kevin Whalin': a man of pride, dignity; a MICHELE, I GIVE UP ON WHO THE man -it ia Mid -who poaa..ee not FAMOUS ONE IS,BUT I HOPE THAT
DESPERATELY SEEKING TICKETS! I 
LOST MSU FACULTY BRAT NEEDS 4 GA'S glandl YOU HAVE A GREAT BIRTHDAY!
need 4 or 5 G.A. ·a and 1 student ticket for 
ONE (t) L.l.BEAN BACKPACK BOOK· TO MICHIGAN STATE GAME TO Wordproce.ng LOVE. JENIFER
Mich. State. Please help me' CALL RON 
BAG TYPE THING SETTLE FAMILY FEUD. WILL PAY Call Dolorn 2n-6045 To Lefty and Kelty: Soon to be da
3558 OA 239-ns7 

IF YOU WERE LOOKING (OR EVEN IF GOOD$$. CAll ELIZABETH X4570. Region's winningest team. Best wiahn SUNDAY IS PRISCILLA KARLE'S 8­YOU WEREN'T) YOU MIGHT HAVE alwaya. Pudge, Mrs. Pudgeand PudgeJr. DAY. MAKE IT EXTRA SPECIAL: GIVE
NEED 2 MSU GA'S---Will TRADE 2 
FOUND IT IN HURLEY OR THE A.C.C. Domino's Pizza hu openings for part The entire city of Piqua, Ohio ia com1ng HER A CALL (284-5312) ANY TIME ­
MICHIGAN GA'S OR BUY: CALL DAN 
(MAYBE EVEN CUSHING). I'D AP­time delivery peraona. Mull be 11 leaat 18 out to .tee ND ;>My Michigan State. They DAY OR NIGHT. HAPPY BIRTHDAY
239-7666 

PRECIATE IT IF YOU'D LET ME KNOW yeara old. own car, and have valid irl­are wiling to IT8t1e in their whole collec­RUN KATHY RUN We'l bethinking of you AUGUSTA WOMAN!!! LOVE, MJ!!! IF YOU FOUND IT. THANX! CALL JOE aurance. Hourly wage plua commieaion. tion of Sim Whitman albu,. to buy tick· in Ml!! We love you! Good Luck! Ul
I HAVE 2 BOX SEATS FOR CUBS VS.
AT 2094. BY THE WAY ITS BlUE AND Apply in person at 816 Portage Ave. or eta. Pleue help them. /t'.t not often theae PRISCILLA, PRISCILLA, PRISCILLA,·
CARDS ON FRI. SEPT 13 AND 2 SEATS 
HAD AN ECON 8001< AND SOME OT· 1835South Bend Ave. people get out of Ohio. St. Jude· Thank You for your help. Only a HAPPY 8-DAY. HAPPY 8-DAY HAPPY 
ON SAT. INTERESTED? CALL 1270 
HER STUFF IN IT. Cell AmyIt239-5303 01 272·9519 MIMI more and then all will befine -8-DAY! 
.......................................... 
NEED 2 IIIU·ND CIA'S. CALL kEN AT
Loat: Gold Seiko -tch, loll Friday after­And Utile Red Aiding Hood Mid "My HAPPY 8-0AY, HAPPY 8-0AY, HAPPY
2584423 AND MAKE MY DAY. 
noon at Greenfield, if found pi-cal HI MURPHSKY HOW'S TRICKS Grampa, what a big tongue you ha~e!"­8-0AY-PRISCILLA, PRISCILLA, PRIS­Mike at 11n. REWARD OFFERED. Meg29 CILLA!
FOR SALE 

HELP! NEED MICH. ST. TICKETS BAD; VARSITY FIELD HOCKEY VARSITYCALL JOHN 1601 
LOST: BENNETION RUGBY SHIRT, FIELD HOCKEY VS. Ball State The moat DEAR C. ROO HAPPY BELATED BIRTHDAY TO Blue and White. Laundry tag with no. FOR SALE. ONE WAY TICKET TOLl DANGEROUS game at NO!! Brihg your IN409, JENNY DOAOFF, THE CELEBAATION
Sell George 2 MICH. ST. GA'a and
.101n and two amaH stama on front. If MACGARTHER AIRPT., GOOD UNTIL BULLETPROOF VEST!!! Friday the 13th! HAPPY 8-DAY!! BEGINS THIS WEE.KENO!! FROM 
Timothy Leary wiU ahow you the -y to
found pleue call Rick at 272-8588. 12 OCT.• CALL 4083. 3:30 Alumni Field SEEYASOON! JULIE, LISA AND SUs.t~. HAPPY
reality. Money no problem. 289-4335. 
SQUEAKY 18TH!! FOUND FOUND FOUND: A pair of cool TYPEWRITER: small portable electronic. SMOKER AND OPEN HOUlE AT THE K THUMPER 
HELP!!! Need I MSU Stu Ticket $$ Call
shades under tree in front of Holy Croaa Cd 5435 daya;256-1312 eve. OFC AND HEY J 0 LEN E HAPPY BIRTHDAY!! 
Oaveat3526

on Sunday. Cd to identify: 232·5570. COME AND WATCH THE IRISH MAUL BUTIONS HA-HA! MCB g.ant garage aale 50 IMLIES SEPT 14, 9-THE WOLVERINES 'AT THE K OF C.
I need 5 M1ch St GAl. Call Rob stx1245.
LOST: GOLD RING WITH DIAMONDS, 5 PLANTS, FURNITURE, HOUSEHOLD BESIDES THE 810 ICREEN TV AND STEPHANIE KAi' MER!!! THANKS FOR SAPPHIRES. AND AN OPAL' IF FOUND SPORTING GOODS, HOLIDAy items, THE GOOD COMPANY, THERE WILL Environmental Concerna Organization EVERYTHING'!! l'M AEALL Y GOING TO PLEASE CONTACT MAUREEN. AT 284· much miac, 101 mich. church north of -nted 2 gas to any home games call BE CHEAP FOOD-S 50 BURGERS AND PICNIC 4:30 today Holy CrOll Field All MISS YOU!!! PLEASE VISIT OFTEN!1! 4326. REWARD OFFERED!!!!! leeper PARK BRIDGE. 272-3491 $.25 HOT DOGS. DO COME. are welcome GOOO LUCK! II LOVE, MJ 
The Observer Friday, September 13, 1985-page 14 

) 
l 
l \ 
New York Mets third baseman Howard]obnson they defeated the Cards, 7-6, to take sole possesion celebrates with teammates Keith Hernandez, Dar­of first place in the National League East. For ryl Strawberry, and George Foster after bitting a details on alloflast night's NL action, see the Roun­grand slam in Tuesday's game against the St. Louis dup at right. Cardinals. The Mets celebrated again last night, as 
Lowery's club-record 5 field gOals boost Chiefs over Raiders, 36-20 
Associated Press effort with 43 seconds remaining in Hawkin's one-yard plunge with 5:59 the first half matched the longest of left in the first period. his career and pulled Kansas City Lowery's third field goal put the 
KANSAS CI1Y, Mo. -Nick Lowery within 14-12 at halftime. His 21-Chiefs in the lead at 9-7 with 6:52 tied a club record with five field yarder 4:39 into the second half left in the first half, but Vann McEl­goals and Bill Kenney threw a pair of propelled the Chiefs into the lead for roy recovered a Chiefs' fumble on touchdown passes last night, leading good at 15-14. the Kansas City 30 and, moments the Kansas City Chiefs to a 36-20 vic­Kenney, who passedfor 397 yards later, Todd Christensen made a tory over the Los Angeles Raiders in against New Orleans last Sunday, circus catch in the end zone of a a nationally televised National Foot­completed 18 of 38 passes for 259 three-yard pass from Plunkett for a 
ball League game. yards against Los Angeles. He threw 14-9 Raider lead. 
Lowery tied the record of five for two touchdowns in the third Later, with the outcome no longer field goals by Jan Stenerud, who period as Kansas City pulled out to a in doubt,Jessie Hester caught a two­turned the trick on two occasions in 29-14lead. yard scoring pass from Plunkettwith 1969 and again in 1971. The victory 6:52 left. The extra point attempt 
improved the Chiefs' record to 2-0 Cornerback Albert Lewis failed. while the Raiders, who had beaten recovered a fumble by Raider quar­The Chiefs, shutout ofthe playoffs Kansas City five in a row, dropped to terbackJim Plunkett in the end zone since 1971, drew a crowd of 72,680 1-1. for the Chiefs' third touchdown and to Arro;whead Stadium for only their 
Lowery's field goals measured 36, a 36-14 lead with 9:48 remaining. second appearance on prime-time 22, 42, 58 and 21 yards. His 58-yard The Raiders scored first on Frank television since 1977. 
The weekend sports scene 
Friday at Cartier Field Field Hockey vs. Ball State, 3:30 p.m. Men's Soccer vs. Wisconsin-Madison, 7:30p.m . 
.. THE JMD PERFORMING ARTS SERIES Presents 

l ! 
SCARCACll€1) 
at O'laughlln Auditorium j Friday, September 13, at 8:00pm 
nc:keta are $6.50, $5.50, & $4.50 A dollar offto student. & ~lor cltlzeru. SMC student.free 
Hernandez RBI hit beats Cards in 9th 
Assodated Press 
Expos 6, Phillies 3 

NEW YORK -Keith Hernandez's tie-breaking single in the bottom of PHILADELPHIA -Hubie Brooks the ninth inning sent Mookie Wilson snapped an 0-for-13 string with a sprinting home from second base, ftfth-inning grand slam in leading the giving New York a 7-6 victory yes­Montreal Expos to a 6-3 Victory over terday over the St. Louis Cardinals Philadelphia Thursday night, snap­and propelling the Mets back into ping the Phillies' four-game winning sole possession of first place in the streak. National League East. Winner Floyd Youmans, 3-2, gave 
Wilson led off the bottom of the up two runs and four hits over five 
ninth with his third hit, an infield innings, striking out three and 
single to third base off Ken Dayley, walking seven. JetfReardon notched 
3-2. his 34th save, pitching the final two 
Reliever Jesse Orosco, 6-5, was innings. 
the winner despite surrendering With the score tied 1-1, Youmans 
Willie McGee's game-tying home opened the Montreal fifth with a 
run in the top ofthe ninth. walkoffloser Shane Rawley, 11-7. 
Braves 11 , Dodgers 6 Pirates 10, Cubs 2 
ATlANTA Brad Komminsk PITfSBURGH -R.J Reynolds hit a capped a six-run third inning with a three-run homer, Mike Brown three-run homer and the Atlanta added a solo shot and relief pitcher Braves went on to an 11-6 victory Don Robinson capped a six-run over the Los Angeles Dodgers last eighth with a grand slam homer to night, salvaging the final game of a lead the Pittsburgh Pirates to a 10-2 five-game series. victory over the Chicago Cubs last 
Run-scoring singles by Glenn night. Hubbard and Dale Murphy chased Reynolds' homer, his first since Los Angeles starter Jerry Reuss and June 22, 1984, came against Dennis brought in Bobby Castillo, 2-2, who Eckersley, 8-6, in the third inning. loaded the bases by walking Bob Robinson relieved Rick Rhoden, Horner. 9-13, in the eighth and personally 
Zane Smith, 7-9, who pitched put the game out of reach with his three scoreless innings, was the win­grand slam that capped the scoring. ner for the Braves in relief ofstarter He then finished up his pitching Joe Johnson. Gene Garber hurled chores for his third save of the the final three innings for his first season. save. 
Reds 2, Padres 1 Astros 5, Giants 2 

CINCINNATI -Buddy Bell and HOUSTON -Kevin Bass doubled Tony Perez knocked in frrst-inning and tripled, scored a run and drove runs and right-handerJay Tibbs scat­in another to spark the Houston tered seven hits in eight innings last Astros to a 5-2 victory over the San night to give the Cincinnati Reds a Francisco Giants last night. 2-1 victory over the struggling San The victory was Houston's eighth Diego Padres. in their last nine games and their 
Reds player-manager Pete Rose, 13th in 16 games with the Giants who broke Ty Cobb's all-time hit this season. record Wednesday night, sat out Rookie Charlie Kerfeld, 2-2, was Thursday night's game because he the winner, pitching seven innings got little sleep overnight. and giving up one run on six hits 
Andy Hawkins, 17-6, allowed six while striking out three and walking hits while taking the loss. one. Dave Smith pitched the final Tibbs, 8-1 5, was the winner. two innings. 
Help Prevent Birth Defects J 



The Observer Friday, September 13, 1985 -page 1 5 
Guidry wins 19th game 
Hassey's 3-run HR beats Blue Jays 

A88odatcd Press 
NEW YORK-Ron Hassey blasted a 
three-run homer with two outs in 
the seventh inning, capping a 
dramatic six-run outburst that rallied Ron Guidry and the New York Yankees over the Toronto Blue jays 7-5 last night. 
The victory, in the opener of a four-game series, pulled the Yankees within one and-a-half games of American League East-leading Toronto. New York snapped the BlueJays' four-game winning streak. 
Guidry, 19-5, who leads the AL in victories, went eight innings before giving way to Brian Fisher, who pitched the ninth for his 12th save. 
Gary Lavelle, 4-7, took the loss. 
Angels 5, Rangers 3 
ANAHEIM, Cal. -Ruppert jones tripled in the winning run in the seventh inning last night as the California Angels beat the Texas Rangers 5-3 to move within two games of idle Kansas City in the American League West. 
jones added a double in the first inning, bringing home Rod Carew, to give the Angels a brief 1-0 lead. 
Bobby Grieb made it 2-0 by leading off the second with his 1Oth homer and his 142nd as an Angel, breaking his tie with Don Baylor as the club's all-time leader. 
Reliever Dwayne Henry, 1-2, took the loss. 
Mike Witt's fifth straight victory improved him to 13-7. Donnie Moore worked the final two innings for his 26th save of the year, break­ing a record set by Dave LaRoche seven years ago. 
White Sox 4, Twins 2 
CHICAGO -Greg Walker tripled in two runs last night to break up a 1-1 tie and lead the Chicago White Sox to a 4-2 victory over the Min­nesota Twins. 
Gene Nelson, 9-9, struck out six and walked one, scattering seven hits, as Chicago won the seventh of its last eight games. Bob James came in for the White Sox with two outs left in the ninth for his 26th save of the year. 
Mike Smithson, 14-1 2, took the 
loss. 
Orioles 3, Red Sox 1 
BOSTON -Rookie Ken Dixon 
threw a six-hitter over 7 2-3 innings 
last night and Floyd Rayford hit a 
two-run homer in the third as the 
Baltimore Orioles beat the Boston 
Red Sox 3-1. 
The homer, Rayford's 12th of the year, followed John Shelby's infield single off loser AI Nipper, 8-11, and helped the Orioles salvage a split of their four-game series in Boston. 
Rich Gedman hit a solo homer into the right-field stands in the second inning off Dixon, 7-3. 

Niekro goes for 300th win tonight 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Phil Niekro's actions never give a hint ofwhat is ahead. By his easy-going ways, he could be preparing to go fishing, go hunting 
APPhoto 

An unidentified Jan covers his face in embarrassment while watching the Texas Rangers lose anothergame. This particutarloss was dealt last week by the visiting Chicago White Sox. Rangerfans did not have to witness last night's 5-3 loss, however, since itcame in Anaheim, California at the hands ofthe California Angels. For details ofthis game and all the action in the American League last night, seeAL Roundup at right. 
orwin his 300th major league game. 
"If I ever ran like the other pitchers did, I'd fall down," said Niekro, a 46-year-old knuckleball speciali~t for the New York Yankees who tries for victory No. 300 tonight against the Toronto Blue Jays. 
"I guess I've been lucky because I let my body tell me what to do, not the clock," he said. "When I'm 

lOOM••• You II dnve the revolut<onary Dodge Daytona Turbo through a competotoon rally course set up roght here on campus Your lap woll be electronocally tomed and th'. student woth the best• offocoal score wons a trop to Daytona Beach to compete on the Natoonal Grand Fonals Other pnzes will be awdrded to 2nd and 3rd place lonoshers andeach hour spectators dnd dnvers aloke woll won great campus prozes Absolutely no· purchase os necessary ot s all free fun 
Dodge 
0 

lAP••• Over $125.000 tn prozes woll be awarded 1n the 
3n:l Annual Natoonal Collegoate Drovtng Champoonshops brought to you by Dodge and other partocopatmg sponsors 
National Gra:td Finals Awards  
1st Place  $5.000 cash scholarshop and use ol a Dodge  
Dayt ond Tu r1>0 IOf 1 year  
2nd Place  $3 000 cash scholarshop and use ol a Dodge  
Daytona Turbo ior 1 year  
3rd Place  $2.000 cash scholarshop and use of a Dodge  
Daytona Turbo for 1 year  

WITH ADDITIONAL SPONSORSHIP FROM 

GOOD/i'EAR UDiff>D ocean pacific SANCTIONED 
Newsweek 
BY 
®
National
~e~~~~ Safety
~ {~ W 
SUPPORTED BY 

Council
~ NoloonaiHighwoy ~ JS [leporomeno Traffic Safely
EASTE~N 
ot Tra~worroooon Admonostrohon 

hungry, I eat, regardless ofwhat time it is. When I'm sleepy, I sleep, regardless of what time it is. Who's to say you have to do everything on a time schedule?" 
It's an unorthodox lifestyle, but one that certainly has worked for Niekro, now 15-9, with victories in each ofhis last five starts. 
Niekro hit the majors for good with Atlanta in 1967. He won 23 games in 1969, 20 in '74 and 21 in '79. He threw a no-hitter for the Braves against San Diego in 1973 and was named to the All-Star pitch­in~ stafffour times. 
His 298th victory, against the Seattle Mariners on Sept. 3, was an eight-inning stint that took a lot out of him. He wondered up until game time if he would be able to make his next scheduled start, last Sunday against Oakland. 
He made it, going six innings for a 9-6 victory, No. 299 for his career. 
If Niekro wins Friday night, he would be the 18th pitcher in major league history to win ~00 games and the second to record No. 300 at Yankee Stadium this season. Tom 
Seaver of the Chicago White Sox reached the milestone with a victory over the Yankees on Aug. 4. 

Baseball Standings 
NAnONAL LEAGUE 
Eat  
w  L  Pet.  
N-York  84  54  .609  
St. Louis  83  55  .601  
Montreal  74  64  .536  
Philadelphia  68  69  .496  
Chicago  66  72  .478  
Pittlburgh  45 w..i  91  .331  
Loa Angeles  82  56  .594  
Cincinnati  73  64  .533  
San Diego  71  68  .511  
Houston  69  70  .496  
Atlanta  59  80  .424  
San Francisco  54  85  .388  

ThursMy'a Reeulta New York 7, St. Louis 6 Cincinnati 2, San Diego 1 Montreal6, Philadelphia 3 P1ttaburgh 10, Chicago 2 Adanta 11, Loa Angeles 6 Houston 5, San Francisco 2 
AMERICAN LEAGUE  
Eat  
G8  w  L  Pet.  G8  
Toronto  88  52  .629  
New York  86  53  .619  1.5  
10  Baltimore  73  64  .533  13.5  
15.5  Detroit  71  67  .514  16  
18  Boaton  69  71  .493  19  
38  Milwaukee  61  n  .442  26  
Cleveland  so  90  .357  38  
WMt  
8.5  Kansas City  79  59  .572  
11.5  california  78  62  .557  2  
13.5 23.5  Chicago Oekland  71 69  68 71  .511 .493  8.5 11  
28.5  Seattle  65  74  .468  14.5  
Minnesota  62  n  .446  17.5  
Texas  51  88  .367  28.5  
Thuraday'a Aeeulta  
New York 7. Toronto 5  
Chicago 4. Mmneaota 2  
Baltimore 3, Bolton 1  
California 5, Texas 3  

RENT BY SEMESTER 
Color TV • Microwave Ovens $70Isemester $50Isemester 
Color City 

..llrll~

···•· 259-7661 ·Basney Honda Used Car Specialr**** 
~ 1980 Ford Fiesta 4 spd reg $2495 * 
1980 Citation  4 spd  
~  1979 Toyota Corolla  automatic  
""" .1979 Honda Civic  4 spd  
- 1978 LaSabre  automatic  
~  1978 Plymouth  automatic  

-All at Reduced Prices!!I 
~ Phone 256-5550 3820 N. Grape Road. lt -Mishawaka, IN lt 
******************** 
reg $3295 lt reg $3295 ""'-­reg $1995 ......­reg $2995 lt reg $2995 lt 
See Bob Welch lt 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·----------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
r 
' 
The Observer Friday, September 13, 1985 -page 16 

I 
J! 
I' 
I 
l
\ 
r 
I I 
I 
t 
,. 
I 
J 
!
j' 
J 
r 
l 
l i 
Ayres takes you back to class in style with classic long sleeved fitted oxford button downs 

Higher armholes 
body 

2 for 32.00 
L T ~ 
.-. 
.. --~·.,,. 
•' '
.. 

Neck Size  14112  15  151/2  16  161/2  17  
Fits through waist size  32  34  35  37  38  40  


Shop Ayres Scottsdale Mall and University Park daily 10 to 9; Sunday 12 to 5:30. 24 Hour, 7 Day, Toll-Free Order Line. Indianapolis, 262-9737. Indiana, 1-800-572-9737. OH, KY, IL, Ml, 1-800-772-9737. 
The Observer Friday, September 13, 1985 -page 17 

n.., Oboerv~r/ Fll~ Photo 

junior Corinne DiGiacomo of the Notre Dame ful record. The Irish will begin the task this after­field hockey team, sboum heregoingfor thegoal in noon against highly-ranked Ball State at Cartier a game last season, figures toplay a key role in the Field. Terry Lynch previews the contest in his story team's quest to improve on last year's mostsuccess-onPage20. 
VTHING'S ON SALE 
with this coupon 
Just bring it in and receive a 20% discount on 
EVERYTHING you want for your apartment or 
dorm: Wicker furniture, accessories, framed 
prints, giant matted posters, candles, dinner· and 
glassware, designer silk flowers & vases, decorator 1 
brass, an amazing collection of baskets, novelties, 
and much, much more! 

*Valid through.October 15. 1985, on all regularly priced merchandise in stock. 
One coupon per purchase only, please. 
AND EVERYTHING STAYS ON SALE 
with your own personal-discount carcl. ~ 
Just ask the cashier for your STCJDENT ~ 
1 DISCOUNT CARD, show your college ~~~ 1 I.D., and take 20% off EVERYTHING ~~ fi'\~lo)'D' I from now through May 31, 1986! ~~oo u ~~: *VaUd on regularly priced merchandise only. ~~~ to_.. .,,,,,.
t;;Gu 20% • 
L.IIIIIL ~ Oisc r~flrl 

PLUS: Start off your apartment "•''a Pille£Ouli.,. 
a,,~., ,~'"'.s-,.,oo "'e"co"'...I.;•J
decorating wit'l a little atmosphere, "ott Cl( '11-4N, 
compliments of us. Choose two _.., _c.l'tt=~"'"-tt o, o,se 
A .... ~ "''•• ~c
-·~;/Jg c ~-c,·~ 37 .t 01 ~
votive candles in any color ~crw:a 
0~ ~ • 7~ l'tt. 
'IJO,th~~:~~ 
~~~~ "G~
FREEl 

testa, '9./n..

*Offer va6d through October 15, 1985, or whDe supply lasts. 
SMC 
continuedfrom page 20 
pleased with the leadership role she has just naturally taken over." 
Fellow veteran and outside hitter for the Belles is sophomore standout Kara Telrulve. 
"She's a good athlete," says Lam­bert of the Indianapolis native. "She's strong and fairly quick and will be doing some good things for us." 
Sophomore Colleen Mergens, meanwhile, is in her first year with the team, though Lambert sees her playing a key role as the Belles' set· ter. 
"She has beautiful hands and did a really good job for us on Tuesday night," comments Lambert. "She has a good sense and a real feel for the court." 
Classmate Moira Cronan of Over· land Park, Kans., the only player not from Indiana or Illinois; is a return­ing outside hitter and ~y also see some setting duties. --. 
Freshmen Tami Sum-of Mis­hawaka Marian High School, and teammate Margaret Feldman of Naperville, Ill., both came from high school championship teams and should see a lotofaction this season. 
"They looked really good (against l..ake Michigan)," says Lambert, who helped coach Suth at Marian last season. "Their defense and serving just need some work." 
Karen Busk and Kathy Koller, both recent graduates of South Bend's Trinity High School, along with fellow freshman Raulinda "Rauli" Lopez, lack experience but are all working hard and improving according to Lambert. 
Busk is an outside hitter, while Koller and Lopez are the team's back row specialists. 
Although Lambert would have liked to have had more players try out for the team this year, she sees the youth ofthe squad as an advantage. 
"I can train them to play the way I want," says Lambert. "We've started out well, and now we're going to build. I'm sure we'll have 12 players by next year." 
The coach cited academic and work commitments among several reasons why ten oflast year's players decided not to return to the team. Although these could have been serious losses to the squad, Lambert feels the team has been able to overcome. 
"It doesn't seem to be bothering us," says Lambert. "Everyone is get­ting a super team feeling and we can accomplish a lot out of that." 
Since Lambert is a first year coach in this area, she is not familiar with the competition the Belles will be facing this season. Nevertheless, she has no doubts about the team's goals for the season. 
"I want to win the ones we should win and qualify for districts," adds Lambert. "That is our goal at this point." 
The Belles, who were runners up in NAJA District 21 last year, will open up tonight's action against Augustana College of Rock Island, Ill.. There will be an array of NCAA Division III and NAIA teams present in the pool play which will end in championship and consolation brackets. 
Saint Mary's is guaranteed to play in five matches over the two-day tourney, and hopes to get the 1985 season off to a successful start. 
tournament have been received from nearly every one of this year's participants. Larry Bird and Fuzzy Zoeller have since indicated their 

Golf 
continuedfrom page 20 
desire to be a part of next year's Olympic International Games to be event, as well. held at Notre Dame. A date for next As far as the tournament itself year's tournament already is being went, Gail Goodrich's foursome planned, and indications are that the went away the winner, while Mas­fundraiser will be held in mid­simino won himself a trip to Las August the second time around. Vegas by capturing closest-to-hole 
This year's tournament featured a honors. 
bevy of sporu celebrities, such names as Paul Hornung, Joe Garagiola, Keith Jackson, Rollie Mas­
Dn«ING AND DRIVIG 

simino, Mike Eruzione, Hank Stram, 
CAN Kll A FRIENDSHII Austin Carr and Bill Laimbeer. At this time, commitments for next year's 
r------------------------~------·
I
SUPER PREMIUM I 
HOME MADE ICE CREAM I I 
I
Cheesecakes(homemade) 
I

10 Different Coffees and 10 Different Teas 
I Cappaclno I I

Croulsant Meals and Homemade Soup 
DISCOUNT COUPON Buy one Ice cream treat. Gel one of equal value FREE. 


Good from 9/12to 9/19 826 W. Edison Sun.-Thurs. 11am·11pm Mishawaka 258-0m Fri.&Sat. Open till 12 Midnight (Handpacked Ice cream not Included) 
LAYAWAY AVAilABLE 

Restaurant The Best in 
SCOTTSDALE MALL UNIVERSITYPARK 
Aged Steaks 

291-7492 272-6861 t 
I I 
120 N. Main Street 

I I 
Downtown. Mishawaka 

I I I 
I 
255-7737 

I I 
for reservations

I I Lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00 P.M.
I I I I 
Dinner 5:00 P.M. Closed Sundays & Holidays 

: I An Amazing CoUection Of the World's Greatest Bargains I I • 

-~---~--~-~-----~ ------~~~~­
,, 
ii 
r \ 
~ 
L 
l 
' 
1-.
'.
!t­
1\. 
~~ 
:1 
r 
l 

I. 
:• 
) 

(.· 
I' 
1: •! 
( I 
r 
;, 
I: 
I' 
The Observer 
--, 
ND freshman volleyball standout 
Shea is just what Lambert needed 
By CHUCK EHRMAN 
Sports Writer 

There is nothing like a little dose of height to help out a volleyball team.. And as far as Notre Dame vol­leyball coach Art Lambert is con­cerned, six-foot freshman Maureen Shea is just what the docter ordered. 
Although it has been a baptism un­der fire so far for the first year player, Shea has stood tall in the face of pressure, and played well. She has started both games this season, playing full-time against both ken­tucky and Ohio State. In those two games she raised a few eyebrows and captured a bit of the spotlight. 
There was little fanfare, however, when Shea reported to school early this August to get a head start on the big time college volleyball season. The applause will surely be heard soon enough, though, as her career continues on the upswing. 
"It's an experience playing as a 

Fresbman volleyball playerMaureen Shea, sboum here leaping high in a match against Kentucky earlier this month, bas given coach Art Lambert's unit some much-needed height this year. Chuck Ebnnan tells of the potential heights Shea's career could reach in his story above. 
freshman," says Shea. "It's a big load to carry, and it's nothing like high school. The game's playc:d at a faster pace on the college level." 
But Shea has responded well to the pressure of starting at such an early stage of the season. In fact, her poise and play has been a catalyst for the rest of the squad. As a middle blocker she plays a key spiking and blocking role, so she's always lurking about somewhere near when the ball's in play. 
The consistency Shea has at the position is what made her a valuable prospect to several interested col­leges. In the ~nd, however, the Irish triumphed in the recruiting war. Shea turned down bids from Ken­tucky, Miami(Oh. ), the University of Cincinnati, and Xavier to play under the Golden Dome. 
Shea was a big-play type player in high school, earning all-everything honors at St. Henry High School. Among these awards were two Player of the Year honors from the Northern Kentucky Athletic Con­ference, of which her team was a member. To accompany these awards, she was also ·voted her team's Most Valuable Player during both her junior and senior cam­paigns. 
Those awards are past history now, however, and Shea has had to start over in the college game. 
One of the keys to her smooth transition into this college game, though, has been the comfortable atmosphere among the members of the team. 
"We all get along great most ofthe time," Shea says. "We work together and always help each other out, and that has helped." 
In the two games that the Irish have played so far this season, Shea has helped to size.things up at the net. and she is happy with her play so far. 
"I've done a lot better than I thought I would," says Shea. "I didn't think I'd be starting when I came here. But I've surprised myself." 
Her continued fine play will be crucial to the team's success this season. Hopefully she will be able to turn in a good number of block­buster performances as the Irish work through a tough schedule. 
For now, Shea has gotten her feet wet, and in the process has made a big splash early in her debut season ofcollege volleyball. 
Collegiate Driving Championships open to ND students this weekend 
ByBRLIRVIN 
Sports Writer 

For those who are not content to merely watch sports this weekend, the fourth Annual National Col­legiate Driving Championships will provide an opponunity for competi­tion. The event, sponsored locally by the Student Activities Board, will be held at the Red West parking lot (south of the stadium) Saturday through Sunday. All full-time under· graduates with valid driver's licenses are eligible to enter. 
The winner of the local two-day event, which has no entry fee, wins round-trip air transponation and ac­comodations to participate in the Grand Finals in Daytona Beach, Florida. There, semifinalists will compete for more than Sl25,000 in prizes, including scholarships and the use of a 1986 Dodge Daytona Turbo Z spons car. In addition, Ocean Pacific Sportswear will be awarding hourly prizes to program participants and spectators. 
The NCDC is sanctioned by the Sports Car Club of America (SCCA) in cooperation with the Dodge Divi­sion of Chrysler Corporation. Other sponsors include Goodyear Tire and Rubber, Unocal, USA Today and Ocean Pacific. Both the National Safety Council and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administra­tion are involved in the program to promote safe driving techniques, the use of safety restraints, and the hazards ofdrinking and driving. 
The rally course will consist of a serpentine configuration designated by traffic cones and barricades. Sop­histicated timing equipment will be employed to measure each par­ticipant's time, with one second added to times for each cone moved from its position. 
In 1984-85, more than 40,000 stu­dents participated in the program. 
Reaction to the competition among the Notre Dame students seems to be favorable. Junior en­gineering major and auto enthusiast Scott Patria, who paticipated in last year's program, praised the event. 
"It's a fine program," says Patria. "I really enjoyed it. The competition was pretty stiff. I only wish Chevy and Ford would start similar programs." 
When asked about the practical applications to be derived from par­ticipation, Patria underscored the experience drivers receive in operating under tricky driving con­ditions. 
"The program provides good emergency maneuvering ex­perience," continues Patria. "It succeeds in testing your reflexes, and in determining how weU you communicate with the car under a high-performance driving situa­tion." 
Support the 


March of Dimes 
--BIRTH DEFECIS FOUNDATJONIIIIIIIillllil 
Friday, September 13, 1985-page 18 
ATTENTION! RECRUmNG FANADCSI Beginning on Oct.1­THE NATIONAL PREP REPORT 
Action game photos a game-by-game statistics on the nation's Top Prep Football and BasketballPrC)specta! 

12 monthly 1ssues-JUSt $20 MAIL CHECK FOR SUBSCRIPTION TO: THE NATIONAL PREPREPORT 
P.O. BOX 7964 
CHARL01TESVILLE. VIRGINIA 
22906 


Our Gratitude to the Notre Dame family for all their prayers and expressions ofsympathy at the deaths of BrotherRogerJamison and BrotherIvan Dolan A special thanks to the Holy Cross Priests, Brothers and Sisters as well as the Maintenance and Security depts. Brotleere ofHoly Cros• Col.,,.blfl H«PI 



50{ 14oz drafts 
Saturday 6" Sub and a pitcher 
Bud .. ·...$4.50 

j 
L) ______~ 


Friday, September 13, 1985 -page 19 

Bloom County 
~!Wfllllf£ #• tN N£W YoRk... HIIN/lfJ fJP ./ aA1H 1lJ flr'r1EI?!CII.' 
'f-t 
ACROSS 1 "-Well That 
Ends..." 5 Author Sholom 9 Deceit 
13 Pulsate 14 Storehouse 15 Move on the 
ground, as a plane 16 Magnani of 
movies 17 Golf clubs 18 Thirst 
quenchers 19 Stars 21 Crowd 22 Point 23 More loyal 25 Placeof 
worship 28 Desist 29 Counter 32 Intuitive one 33 Bundle 34 Past 35 Beggar's 
request 37 Hair 39 Letter 40 Curtains 42 Thin mark 43 Maiden name 
word 44 Eyed amorously 45 Men 46 Fish basket 47 Omega's cousin 48 Cretan king 51 South of 
certain 

mountains 56 Eng. river 57-the bag! 58 Lollapalooza 59 Afr.lake 60 Obscure 61 -Major 62 Soon 63 One-spots 64 Prove 
DOWN 1 Camel's-hair 
garments 2 Fasting season 3 Singer Cantrell 
............................................................................................... 
•

THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
I i •• 
presents i 
•I 
i• 

I • 
I'M A TEKROK!ST FIIN!lTIC IINl? IWI HIJIICK!Nr7 tHIS C/1~/  i?€1/TH 7011MeR!CfiN Wf/llr.?CUtTllf('C. / ~liTH W AMERICAN e/EKY'­WH~W6U THill&/ I l?e/tlf/Nf? Be H6f<!  
A NeW CONST/­ fORW/JEKS..  
7l/!1tJ~'N~.==~::v=:t:::::­ 

·:·. 

©1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 9/13/85 All Rights Reserved 
Thursday's Solution 

4 Flag 5 Of flying: pref. 6 Oratorical one 7 Narrowed 8 Altitudes: 
abbr. 9 Western outlaw queen 10 Geological 
angle 11 Choppers 12 Long for 14 Locality: abbr. 20 "Le Coq -" 21 Eng. drama· 
tist of old 24 Employers 25 White-faced 
9/13/85
26 Charter 27 Taut 38 Camp under the 
49 "The Terrlbl~" 

28 Like some stars 50 "-Nanette" verse 41 Long cloak 52 Poses 29 Laver 45 Coagulate 53 Concerning30 Facient 46 Arthur­
54 Loch­

31 Flowers Doyle 55 QEDword33 Clear of guilt 47 Buffoon 57 "-Yankee 36 Aromas 48-Hari Doodle..." 

Tonight Engineering 7, 9,11 pm Auditorium 
............................................................................................... 
t'·S 
~3­
tAROUND 
,-til'$ • ••
•

ctaicO!JO 
Trip on Saturday, Sept.14 Leave 8:45 a.m. Library Circle Sign-upI Pay Student Activities 1stFloor Lafortune 
Campus 
FRIDAY, SEPT. 13 

•3:30 
P.M. -Phllosophy Colloquium, "Towards an Aristotelian Theory of Abstract Objects", Dean Michael Loux, University of Notre Dame, Ubrary Lounge 

•3:30 
P.M. -Field Hockey, Notre Dame vs. Ball State, Alumni Field, 

•6:30 
p.m. -Club Meeting, Ichthus "Kickoff" Meeting, Library Lounge, Sponsored by lchthus 

•7:00, 
9:00, 11:30 P.M. -SAB FUm, "Friday 13th", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, S1.50 


Dinner Menus 

Notre Dame Chopped Steak with Sauteed Mushrooms Turkey Pot Pie Beer Batter Fried Per~h Spiedano Romano Bun 
TV Tonight 
7:00P.M. 
7:30P.M. 8:00P.M. 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
~OKAY. .. 
we &or 
''!~/& Mf!CfJ: FK!e5... 
\ 
saw something that grabbed his attention. 

16  High on theJob  
22  Special  Children's  Program  
Preview  
28  Webster  
28  Mr. Belvedere  
16  Motown Revue starring Smokey  
Robinson  
22  CBS Special Movie: "Cannonball  
Run"  
28  Barbara Walters Special  
34  A  Passion  for  Excellence:  An  
Evening with Tom Peters  

THE COR..;p 
5 oo 
• 
•7:30 
AND 9:30P.M. ·Friday Night FUm Series, "life is a Bed of Roses", Annenberg Auditorium 

•7:30 
P.M. -Soccer, Notre Dame vs. Madison, Wisconsin, Cartier Field 

•8:00 
P.M. -Concert, Scartaglen Band of Kansas City, O'Loughlin Auditorium, Tickets S6.50, $5.50, and S4.50. Seniors citizens and students, S1.00 off ticket price. 

•9:00 
P.M. -SAB Concert, Quasar, Location To Be Assigned, Sponsored by Student Ac· tivities Board 

SATURDAY, SEPT.14 

•1 
:40 P.M. -Football, Notre Dame vs. Univer­sity ofMichigan, At Ann Arbor 


Saint Mary's Grilled Reuben Fish and Chips Broccoli Cheese Casserole Cheese and Vegetable Strada 
8:30P.M. 46  Father Michael Manning  
9:00P.M. 16  Miami Vice  
34  Great Performances: Bernstdn  
Conducts West Side Story  
46  Lesea Alive  
9:30P.M. 28  Benson  
10:00 P.M. 16  NewsCemer 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
46  Jimmy Swaggan Weekly  
10:30 P.M. 16  Tonight Show  
22  CBS Late Movie: "The Phantom  
orthe Opera"  
2M  ABC News Nightline  
NOTRE DAME  
Football Programs  
FOR SALE  
~  Great gift idea for  
"alumns, parents or collectors  





ft-! 
~-.. 

\ 
friday, September 13,. 1985 -page 20 

Soccer team hopes to continue its winning ways tonight on home turf 
By GREG STOHR nis Grace, "and that things will begin "It was really a nice header," said Sports Writer to shift our way." Grace. '"Tiger' (McCourt) chal· Things did indeed go Notre lenged his man really well." 
After beginning a seemingly Dame's way Wednesday as the Irish Tom Gerlacher added a final in· promising season with three con­dominated the Demons, outshoot· surance tally, his second score ofthe secutive losses, the Notre Dame ing them, 19·11, to raise their record year, in a most unusual fashion. Ger· men's soccer team finally found vic· to 1·3. Iacher's throw-in from deep in tory Wednesday by thrashing win­Notre Dame hopes to improve to Demon territory deflected off the less DePaul, 3·1. 2·3 tonight when undefeated opposing keeper's outstretched 
Wisconsin-Madison faces the Irish at hands and into the goal. 

The luckless Irish started the year Cartier Field. Game-time is 7:30. "I couldn't believe it because it with losses to two nationally-ranked Bidinger opened the scoring early shouldn't have happened," said the schools, Virginia and George Mason, in the first half against DePaul when freshman. "It was a mistake by the and then suffered an overtime defeat he picked up the rebound off a Dave goalie." 
. ' 
last Saturday at the hands of an ou.t­Miles bicycle-kick shot and found DePaul foiled Irish keeper Hugh manned Wisconsin-Milwaukee the back of the net for a 1-0 Irish Breslin's bid for his first shutout with squad. lead. a goal late in the second half. 
Goals by Mark ·Bidinger, Bruce The score remained 1·0 until the "It's a shame he didn't get the McCourt and Tom Gerlacher, second half when McCourt scored shutout," Grace remarked. "Hugh's! however, helped the Irish break the his first point in an Irish uniform. been playing extremely well. I feel 
I
\: losing streak by propelling their McCourt's header of a Kurt Roemer he's had four good games." \' ~ team over the Blue Demons . crossing pass sailed just between the The Irish will need to take ''I'm a firm believer that all things right goal post and the diving DePaul advantage of every opportunity ~ 
balance out," says Head Coach Den· goalkeeper. tonight against Madison. 
I 
· ~ ObserverI Pete Laches 
~' Freshman defender john Guignon ofthe Notre Dame soccer team attempts to keep the ball from Wisconsin-Milwaukee's jimmy 
Field hockey team has experience 
• 

Banks in last Saturday's game. Guignon and his teammates won ·' their first game of the season Wednesday, a 3·1 victory over i DePaul. Tonight the Irish will try to make it two in a row as they I ' host Wisconsin-Madison at Cartier Field. Greg Stohr describes all 
1l and depth for another solid season 
By TERRY LYNCH "I was pleased with the way the halfback Caroline Brezny and link
the details at right.
~~ 
,, Sports Writer program came out," says Lindenfeld. Christine Sweeney. 'l "The full use of the Astro-Turf really At the link position, the Irish will As Notre Dame's field hockey helped our game." feature· the solid play of senior
SMC volleyball team 
team takes the field today against a The Irish are extremely optimistic Regina Degnan, while defensively powerful and nationally-ranked Ball about the season, and today's game the co-captain tandem of Rodgers State team, hopes are high that the against Ball State, ranked 20th in the and .Weinmann will anchor the Irish can improve on 1984's 15-5-2 preseason poll, is no exception. defense. Between the pipes this year 
record · the best ever in the history "They may have the talent, but we for the team will be senior By KELLY PORTOLESE that the team did stay close most of ofthe program. have the heart to win," says co­goaltender Patti Gallagher, who Saint Mary's Sports Editor the way. With 12 returning monogram captain Christina Weinmann, who recorded 164 saves in 1984. 
"I was pleased with the way the winners on this year's squad, includ­was also the victim of a bizzare The only concerns for Lindenfeld 
When the Saint Mary's volleyball team played," said I..ambert. "Our ing junior standout Corinne shooting incident while practicing at this point in the season include team travels to Elmhurst College in transitions were good for this early DiGiacomo and senior Melissa Som­earlier this year. the loss of Weinmann, the team's Illinois tonight for its season opener, in the season. We do have some mer to lead the offense, the Irish are Weinmann's counterpart, senior best corner-shooter, and the addi· there will not be too many familiar work to do on defense, serving, and free ofmany depth problems and are co-captain Mary Rose Rodgers, tion of Central Michigan and Nor· faces from last year's 18-7 team. serve receiving, though." well-experienced. echoes those sentiments. them Illinois to the schedule, two 
Lambert has been especially "The team played an outstanding "Ball State will be our toughest very tough teams. Although Wein· 
With first-year coach Mary Jo happy with the progress and leader· game against Valparaiso," says game of the season," says Rodgers, mann is back playing on the team, Lambert at the helm, and only three ship skills displayed thus far by Mary second-year head coach Jill Linden­"but we have the talent to win. The her recovery from the gunshot returning lettermen, the Belles' Reidy, the lone junior on the team, feld, in reference to last Tuesday's 9· offense is the best I've ever seen wound took away valuable practice 1985 squad consists of five fresh­and last year's most improved 0 scrimmage victory. "Considering playing at Notre Dame. It's really time. men, three sophomores and one player. the field, the team scored good goals looking sharp." "Christine is not in top form right junior. "Mary is a great hitter and and passed well." Undenfeld feels that an important now," says Lindenfeld. "She has only 
On Tuesday night, in order to gain jumper," says Lamben ofthe middle The Irish, aside from the usual fall­part of the offense, the passing, has practiced one day." a little experience, the Belles played hitter. "She was never trained in the practice sessions, endured an ex­been excellent during this fall's The Irish will take an East Coast host to an always-tough Lake Mic· back row but is really going to the tensive suminer training program practice sessions. She has been par· swing during the fall break, which higan College team in a practice floor much easier now. I'm also very set up by Lindenfeld to condition ticularly pleased also with the play Lindenfeld hopes will improve the game. Although the Belles dropped her players and to work on some of junior forward Beth Bisignano,
i four games, I..ambert was pleased see SMC, page 17 fundamental skills. and by the play of two freshmen, see IRISH, page 13 
opens season tonight 
j ~ 
! { 
,, 
! 
\'.r. 
Behind the glamour, Pinkett remains a student 
Heisman Trophy candidate. All-America candidate. And 
finger," says Pinkett. "I would choose the ring any day of Notre Dame student. Allen Pinkett is all ofthem. the week. My shot at the Heisman is a legitimate one, but 
Behind the glamour of Notre Dame's star tailback is a Jeff not an outright one. In fact, I don't think Iwould win it if we Notre Dame student, no different than any other in most didn't do well as a team." respects. He has many of the same worries other students Blumb The senior back feels he is fully ready to help Notre have -classes, tests and papers. In fact, because ofthe way Dame toward its goal ofa national championship, saying he 
Sports EdI tor 
he carries himself both on and off the field, some have has never been in better health in his time here. At the called him the ideal student-athlete. same time, he swears the Irish have never been better 
Allen Pinkett takes his studies seriously, make no equipped going into a season, either. mistake about it. He realizes his football career could end No matter the outcome of this season, though, Pinkett tomorrow, and is ready for the day when the football field any images one might have of the pompous, dumb jock. will leave Notre Dame next May with diploma in hand, will be only a memory. Pinkett is here for his education Sincerity runs through Pinkett's veins. equipped to handle the outside world. And, while pro foot­first, everything else second. , Team goals come before individual goals. Not that ball may be on the near horizon, Pinkett realizes that one 
"The biggest thing I'll leave herewith is my diploma -no Pinkett doesn't want to win the Heisman or be an All· day he will have to face that world. doubt about it," he says. "That piece ofpaper can open a lot American, only that he wants to win the national cham­A marketing major, he says he would like to eventually ofdoors. I take my education very seriously." pionship more. His totally unselfish attitude is no doubt get into the advertising segment of a corporation. In fact, 
one reason that teammates elected him a captain for this over the course of the past four summers, Pinkett gained 
At the same time, Pinkett knows he would never be season. some experience in the business world, working as a lob· where he is today ifit weren't for the suppon and guidance Ask Pinkett what his biggest accomplishment has been at byist for the government relations division ofthe Motorola he has received from his parents over the years. The Notre Dame on the playing field, and he pauses a moment Corporation in Washington, D.C. His job involved going to youngest of three children, Pinkett comes from a very to run through the mountain of memories already gat· hearings on Capitol Hill and then reporting the proceed· 
close-knit family. hered. "I guess it was," he starts to say, his sentence stop­ings back to his boss. That support holds today as the Pinketts of Sterling, Va., ping abruptly. "No, we lost that one," he corrects himself. There's one thing Pinkett isn't likely to have to lobby for make the 22-hour round-trip drive to see their son play "Then, I guess it would have to be..." should both he and the Irish do well enough this season. 
football each week Notre Dame is at home. If the Irish are You see, if Notre Dame doesn't win the game, whatever That, ofcourse, is the Heisman. on the road and the game is within driving distance, you Allen Pinkett might have accomplished in it means nothing can expect to see Mr. and Mrs. Pinkett there as well. to him. He exudes unselfishness when the choice is bet­
• 

"I'm very lucky in that my parents have always been be· ween individual and team goals. Within his reach is the hind me. It has always been that way," Pinkett says. "You most precious ofindividual honors in college football -the The first-ever St. joseph Bank Celebrity Invitational Golf could say that one of the big reasons I play football now is Heisman -yet, that takes a back seat to anything related to Tournament, held last Sunday and Monday, was a resound· to give th~m satisfaction." the team. ing success, raising some $80,000 for the 1987 Special 
Pinkett's down-to-earth nature is a compliment to his "The Heisman stands second on my list ofgoals. I would parents in terms of how well they raised him. He shatters much rather have a national championship ring on my see GOLF, page 17 
i' 



