-
Alcohol dependency -page 5 
~~~ --~ -~ 


tht· mdqx·ndt·nt ~tudcnt ncw~papcr ~lT\ ing notn damc and ~aint mary·-.
VOL XX, NO. 31 MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 198~ 

Five hundred youths battle police in Britain 
LONDON-More: than 500 youths, most of them blacks and a few firing shotguns, battled police: in fierce: street fighllng last night In north London. Officials said one policeman was stabbed to death and more than 80 people were Injured. 
Scotland Yard said 40 policemen were among the: wounded and that two policemen and three reporters were struck by shotgun pellets. It said one officer was seriously lnjurrd when he was hit by a piece: of concrete dropped from a balcony. 
It was the: first police: fatality and the first gunfire: reported In the: riots that hit the: south London district of Brlxton last weekend and the: In­dustrial cities of Uvc:rpool and Bir­mingham last month. 
Clive: Appleby, administrator of North Middlesex Hospital, said a policeman died shortly after being admitted with a stab wound in the: neck. 
Press Association, Britain's domestic news agency, reported earllrr that three: policemen were shot during the fighting In Totten­ham district, and quoted one officer as saying. "They arc: now using shot­gul'l!l." 
The trouble began a day after a black woman died while pollee: were: searching her home. Pollee said the woman apparently suffered a heart attack, but her family disputed thaL 
Approximately 200 youths, most of whom were blacks and some: wearing masks, hurled bottles and stones at the Tottenham pollee sta­tion yesterday afternoon, and then sat in the street. They blocked traffic for about an hour before dispersing. and no one was injured. 
At approximately 7 p.m., gangs of black youths started throwing ob­jects at patrolling officers, and riot police In helmc:ts and carrying shields converged on the area, a ra­cially mixed neighborhood with mostly low-Income housing. 
The violence escalated quickly, and reporters at the scene estimated more than 500 youths had taken to the streets. 
Demonstrators overturned cars and set them on fire, and setablaze at least one house, Scotland Yard reported. Authorities dispatched four fire engines, but police advised them not to go Into the area. 
S£otland Yard spokeswoman Gil­lian Humphrey said the situation was "pretty volatile," as the rioting continued late into the night. 
Pollee from all over London were sent into the area and came under repeated attack. Each time police charged the demonstrators showered them with bricks, stones and bottles, some containing bur­ning gasoline. 
Television coverage showed pollee in running battles with youths amid the flames and smoke of fires started by firebombs. 

Residents of Pangborn watcb tbe ntJtlonally RegN .KMIII, 11rul MU. 'fiF•I,., ~Brie televised Notre Dame/Air Force game Sa_turday af­Hun,_., jrubmen Llam C1111ny, anti Jtkb VIlla (on ternoon. Tbcry are, from left, junior Kevin Blaru:bl top bNQ). (seated on floor), senior Dan Knaus, jresbmen 


United Way drive to overshadow MS campaign this year 
By LYNNE R. STRAND were no longer on a per capita basis staff. "This will be: the: focus for stu­Events for the United Way drive the football stadium for about an S~J/..,_.,.,. but looked at the most dollars dents." will include a Senior Bar Halloween hour," McNamara said raised." "United Way has always been party, a dorm tug-of·war tourna· Once picked up, a student will be: 
A full-lledRCd United Way drive is "lbis decision came: from the na­around (Notre Dame), but the MS ment, the showing of "Stripes," a allowed one phone: call to attempt to Student Government's b!g tional MS board They didn't bother drive Just came: around last year," Senior class cocktail party, a video find someone: to post a "ball" of ap­fundralsc:r for the year, since Notre to ask Neal or me," continued Willis. said McNamara. dance, door-to-door donations, mass proxlmatc:ly ftve to ten dollars Dame will not be: sponsoring an offi­"We stlll think MS Is very The United Way campaign will collections, and gift-checks sales. which also would ,flO to the lund· cial Multiple Sclerosis Campaign, ac­worthwhile. There will be: one big run from Monday, Oct. 28 to Satur­McNamara said he was especially raising campaign. cording to Student Government fundralsc:r In February." day, Nov. 9. excitedabout the Halloween events: An "all-star" wrestling competi· Executive Coordinator Bob "United Way didn't sc:c:m to be: so McNamara said he hopes student a 24-hour Horror Story marathon lion is tentatively planned, McNamara. competitive as MS;" said McNamara. government raises more money for and Lock-up-a-Friend Held on a McNamara Uid, corttlnulng. "there 
Vince Willis, an organizer of last "lbis year MS has a whole ditlcrent United Way than the 17,400 raised quad, he said be hoped the marathon would be: a group of four guys wbp year's MS campaign, Director ofStu­style ofrunning their drive." last year. He added, "No particular would include campus celebrities. know each other Just messing dent Activities Jon! Neal, Notre "Each contestant would need to goal Is set. We want to keep down Participants will need sponsors to around. It'll just bt an act with no Dame: alumna, and last year's MS pay a 125 fee ro enter the competi· the: competiveness and keep lt as a enter. safety worries. The: contestants will fund-raising organizer, Aline Gioffre, tion locally and raise 1500 to enter gift." The United Way's community Lock-up-a-friend will be: run by be: judged by who can put on the recently attended a MS campaign nationally," Willis said. goal for 1985 Is 12,975,000. Notre Dame Security, who sug­best show." training conference and concluded "MS Is no longer a percapitadrive. McNamara added "the money gested the: event. "One person can Tbc Studcat ActiVites Bolll'd and that "It just wasn't for us this vear," We can't compete with large goes straight to the South Bend raise a cer11aln amount of money for cWI SOvUnmeotl wtll abo help or-said Wlllls. "We didn't think that we schools like Michigan," said Mike United Way and never leaves South. Security to pick up a friend, and then could adapt to the new rules ... that Huber, student government chiefof Bend." take them to the jail at the bottom of aee UNITED , pqe4 

Beer Garden this week 
By MIKE ANNAN LISA O'Laughlin Auditorium: "Raiders StaffR•ponn-of the Lost Ark" at 7 p.m. and "Indiana jones and the Temple of 
As fall's cooler weather and Doom" at 9:15, O'Dell said. bright colors set in. a traditional Notre Dame-Saint Mary's event is She said the: reason for the on the way; the Saint Mary's Ok­switch was to increase the tobcrfc:st celebration. event's popularity among the stu­
This year's Oktoberfest will dent body. take place on Wednesday and Thursday evening's festivities Thursday of this week, according will start off with an Oktoberfest to Susan O'Dell, traditional meal at the Saint Mary's dining 
events commissioner for Saint hall. German music will be Mary's student government. supplied by the Uoyd Wienerschnitzel Band, and Co­Replacing the: traditional Ex tickets will be available: to screening of "The: Sound of Notre Dame: students at Notre Music", a double·feature will be Dame's South Dining Hall, O'Dell 
shown on Wednesday night in said. 

Make-a-Wish is class of '85 project 
Currently, Notte Damc'l fund· Wilb plcdF drive that O'Sbca will 
ByJULIE PALAMARO raising drort wtll be operadDt be u,taa &o orpnizc dlrouab the 
Nftl!SS~ff through the North East Indiana Hall Prcstdents' Council. 
Chapter ofMake·a· Wish. 
The Makc:-a·Wish FouodatJon ofAs a new community service O'Shea said the ultimate goal of 
Amcrtca, baaed in Pbocnh, wu
project, Notre Dame's Senior Class the council is to start a Notre Dame­founded to realize the dream'ofa ter­will be: raising money for the Make-a­South Bend Chapter 110 fund-raising minally ill boy who wanted to be aWish Foundation, according to can continue year after year at Notre higl1way patrolman. Oflicen fromHeather O'Shea, executive coor­Dame. Also, by forming a NO-South the Arizona Department of PubUcdinator of community services for Bend Chapter, O'Shea added, the: Safety granted his wt.h with a uni­the senior advisory council. project could become "a real com· form, helmet, <badRC, and helicopcc:rThe Make-a-Wish Foundation of munity affair" rather than somethina ride. The youth's deUgl1t inlplredAmerica grants terminally Ill done by a singleclass at Notre Dame. 
the formation of the foundationchildren with a favorite wish. The ScnJoc Class Is sponsoring a which operates today on a nationalO'Shea first heard of Make-a· Wish Make-a-Wish Kick-Off Party at basis.
In her hometown of Pittsburgh and Senior Bar this Thursday. Raflle tick­
said she thought It would be: a good, ets for the: event are available from Someother wishes the foundation large-volume fund-raising activity each hall's senior rcprcacntatlve, has wanted were to ~nd a girl to for Notre Dame. The council wanted with a ISO'Mth u tnc: prtac. .uiloey"&IDO, to make a boy a ftrcman to focus on· one charity rather than This party will acquaint ltUdcDtl .,.. • day, aod to buy cowboy aear 
many small ones, O'Shea said. with the cam.,.. and a llallr-li-and a be-.: tor a child In Texu. 
The Observer Monday, October 7, 1985 -page 2 

In Brief 
Kevin Hurley, the Howard Hall freshman injured in a hit-and-run accident Sept. 7, will be transferred to'll hospital in Bos­ton, Mass. today to make visits easier for his parents, a Memorial Hospital nune said. Hurley remained in stable condition in the inter­mediate care unit, lbe said. Hurley is stUI unconscious, the nune said, however be is "openinl his eyes and xrabbinl bands." Hurley is recoverinB from multiple bead and abdominal injuries stdfered in the early morninB accident. -Tbe Observer 
Notre Dame is among 200 American universities and colle1es featured in a book, "The Best Buys in ColleBe Educa­tion," published by the New York Times. Author Edward Fiske, education editor of the Times, cites academic quality, teacher­student relationships, residence ball life, and reliwous character in his favorable review of the University. The book, which grew out of Fiske's research for a "Selective Guide to Collqes," publiahed in 1982, singles out Institutions o«erinB top quality education at com­paratively moderate cost. -Tbe Observer 
Of Interest 
Dr. Graham Spanier, vice provost for under­graduate studies at State University ofNew York at Stony Brook, will lecture on "The Chan8lng American Family" tonight at 7:30 in the Memorial Ubrary Lounge. The lecture is part of the Individual and Family Development Lecture Series. Everyone is invited to attend. ­
The Observer 
The ThomasJ. White Center 1s sponsoring a 
lecture by Dr. Jerome E. Miller, President and Co-Founder of the 
National Center on Institutions and Alternatives on the privatization 
of the American prison system. The lecture will be held at noon 
today In room 101 of the Law School. -The Observer 
Holy Cross Associates -Chlle: A slide show of 
Associates living and working in Chlle will be shown tonight, for those interested In learning more about RCA-Chile. Presenters will be Stacy Hennessey (RCA-Chile 81-83) and Father Claude Pomer­leau (local HCA director). Aquestion andanswer session will follow. 
-TheObserver 
"Politics and Democratization" is the topic 
ofa briefseminar being presented by Professor Manuel Antonio Gar­reton. Professor Garreton is a visiting faculty fellow with the Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies. He is currently conduct­Ing research on authoritarian regim~s and processes for democratization. The seminar begins at noon tomorrow in Declo 
131. -The Observer 
Campus Ministry and the Notre Dame Network for Justice and Peace are sponsoring a campus-wide prayer for world peace, at 1 0 tonight at the Grotto. -The Observer 

Weather 
Enjoy it whlle you can as it will be mostly sunny today with the high in the mid 60s. Increasing cloudiness and warmer tonight with the low around SO. Tomorrow will be partly sunny, windy and warmer with the high in the mid 70s. -AP 

The=ObserYer~ 
'lhe Obeerver (USPS 599 2·4000) Is published Monday through Friday and on home football Sarurdays, except during exam and vacation periods. 'lhe OblerftrIs publlshed by the srudents of the University of Nom Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purclwed for J30 per year ( J20 per se· mester) by writing 'lhe Obsena-, P.O. 
Box Q, Nom Dame, Indlan2 46556. 
The Obeener Is a member of The 
~d Pras. All reproduction 
rights are reserved. 
Deslp Bdltor.............Jane Anne Rlrorord Deslp Assistant ........... Mark McLaughlin LayoutStajf........................... Beth Coaway Typ..twn...................................... Pat Clark 
Bill Hipducheck News Bdltor ............................... jobn Heuly Copy Bdltor.., ..................... Margie K.:nten S~ Copy Bdltor.....................jetfBlumb VIewpoint Copy Bdltor.......Cindy Rauck· 
horst VIewpoint Layout ........ Mark McLaughlin Featutw Copy Bdltor .............. Mary Healy Features Layout...................EUyn Masuko NDDayEditor........................Aimee Storin SMC DayBdltor.................... Prlocilla Karle Ad Design ...................Cathel'i.ne Hamaden 
Sanh Wolohan Pbotograplwr........................ Paul Cllliu'elli Typlst..............................}odJ. Shellenbarger 


A rose by any other name is still a rose, but what is a family? 
"Roses are red and violets blue ..." 

Edmund Spenser penned this verse as part of his "Faerie Queen." Ever since then the world has accepted these as chromatic facts ofnature. 
Four centurieslater, we may have to refine Spenser. A recently retired horticulturist has developed a blue rose. 
Arose is a rose is a rose. Even a blue one? A blue rose may strain the eye in the 1980s, but take a stroll through a rose 8afden next century and the blue blossoms may be as prevalent as any red-hued bud. 
While one horticulturist is turning roses blue, other scientists are developing computers to drive our cars, solve our mathematical quandaries and typeset our newspapers. 
Some adults live by the computer, others swear they will die by it. Chlldren of these adults are learning the BASIC of computers In school and racing home to microwave popcorn and play chess on their Apples. 
As for the grandchlldren of the chlldren of the 80s, someone will have to ex­:I bet my dad is plain to them that Eve did stnm~f' ~C»'' not tempt Adam with a microcomputer. Rather, they will have to learn that the fall ofAdam is traced to a red, juicy piece offruit. 
It might be logical to assume that a chlld's parents would explaln man's begin­ning to him. In the 21st cen­tury, however, chances could be a child may not have our conception of parents. 

Following the lead ofsuch celebrity unmarried moms t-4AAt: l.£,tttHol.f as Jessica Lange, Farrah Faw­cett and Amy Irving, the number of middle class, white women who are choos­Ing pregnancy without husbands is growing. The social phenomenon that used to be confined to low-income minorities is stretc,hing beyond these boundaries, and gaining respect. 
Ten years ago unmarried black women were bearing chlldren at a rate seven times higher than single white women. In 1982 single white women were bearing chlldren at a rate only four times less than the unwed black birth rate. 
Some couples are choosing to have children with a companion rather than with a husband or a wife. Some women are deciding they want to be mommies without daddies. To fulfill their maternal dreams, these women can seek a willing or unsu~~pecting partner, artificial in­semination or adoption. 
Single parentage by choice raises ethical questions for some. People argue that a child is not a toyor a pet. A chlld is a human being that needs a home with two 

Sarah Hamilton 
.E.ditor-in-Chief 
parents ofthe opposite sex. William May, a professor of moral theology at Catholic University In Washington, 
D.C. denounced artificial insemination by an unknown donor as irresponsible. 
Controversy may be swelling now, but ifthe statistics continue to increase, the day may come when not an eyebrowwill be raised at a single woman and herchlld. 
This may seem incredible, but in the 19SOs society had equal difticulty understanding a young woman who chose not to marry or once married, one who chose to 
leave the home to find an ad­ditional career. 

Who k.r'IDWS? 
Without casting judg­
m4ybe ment, Imagine our society if we were to progress cir regress so much that a woman would be as Ukely to choose to remain single and have a family as to marry and have a family. The concept of a family would have to be redefined, as so many of the values we accept as the natural coune of life would be a matter ofchoice. 
At least until the concept of an on-the-scene paternal support drops from society's memory, the. single mother
!0-1 
might have to explain to her 

chlld that she did not even know his father, that he was a sperm donor. The unwed mother would have to wve her chlld as much love and time as two parents previously had shared with their children. 
This being all but humanly impossible, would the chlld's increased emotional and literal independence be a positive or negative factor on his growth? On the other hand, consider the present divorce rate. The ef­fects ofa broken home must be weighed against a single parent home that was ori8lnaliy designed as such. 
Men and women may dabble in the garden and breed a blue rose. Men and women may toy with automation and develop the computer. Women may bear and raise chlldren out of wedlock. All are reality. Each may one day be the standard. Only one alters human nature and relationships. 
The Observer is always looking for new talent. 


Indoor plumbing. It can be an exciting Christmas gift for a needy family in Appalachia. YOU can experience active mission life this holiday season. As a Glenmary volunteer, you will live on a rustic farm near Vanceburg, Kentucky, and bring practical help ... and hope to the people of Appalachia. Join other Catholic men and give one week of your holiday vacation. We need volunteers for the following weeks. 
December 28, 1985-January 3, 1986 or January 6-12, 1986 
For more information, return this coupon as soon as possible to: Brother Jack Henn, GLEN MARY HOME MISSIONERS, Box 465618, Cincinnati, Ohio 45246·5618. 
Name--------------------Age __ _ Address City __________ State ___ Zip---------­Phone#____________________ #054-10/85 



.r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Monday, October 7, 1985-page 3 

WASHINGTON· The Reagan ad· ministration's Pentagon build-up has 

r 
produced only "minuscule improve· ment" In national defense despite large budget increases In the last four years, a leading congressional military expert said yesterday. 

/ 
"Only In the personnel area do the figures clearly demonstrate real lm· provements for the money In· vested," said Rep. Les Aspln, D-Wis., chairman of the House Armed Services Committee. 
Aspln's repon Is the latest ex·

'; 
·: ample of growing congressional resistance to large increases In the defense budget and tougher
Yippie yuppie 
scrutiny ofthe Pentagon. Stanlng tomorrow, Aspln's com­

Jerry Rubin, one oftbe "Chicago 12" spoke at a dinner Satur­
mittee will begin a series ofhearings

day nlgbt at tbe Saint Mary's Dining Hall. Tbe banquet was part of 
intended to be a wide-ranging ex·

tbe Association of College Unions-International conference beld 
amlnatlon of Pentagon policy and

atSaint Mary's tbls weekend. Delegates representing three midwes­
whether the Defense Depanment is

tern states participated In tbe annual event. 
wisely spending Its money and 
buying the right weapons. 

i ' 
Defense budget build-up produced
I
., 
i 't 
'miniscule imrovement' in mllitary 
Meanwhile, members of the Senate Armed Services Committee met over the weekend with several former military leaders and secretaries of defense at Fon A.P. Hill. Va. to discuss how the Pentagon should be reorganized. 
In 1981, President Reagan en· tered office calling for large In· creases in defense spending that he said were needed to "rearm America" and reverse what he called a "decade of neglect" of the Pen­tagon. 
Congress granted annual In· creases averaging 8 percent beyond inJlation during Reagan's first term. But now, stung by repons about S640 toilet seats and worried about rising federal deficits, Congress Is close to final approval of a freeze In the defense budget. Aspln and other leaders say no large Increases are likely soon. 
Responding to Aspln's criticism, the Pentagon released a statement saying, "progress has been made. Our military strength has Improved l>ver the past four years but there Is !OUCh to do." 
The statement said disciplinary problems and drug abuse Is down, realistic training has Improved, the cost ofsome weapons Is decreasing, and a number of systems are more ready to fight than four years ago. 
"Has the administration just been 

~ 
throwing money at a problem?" asked Aspln. "Is Ronald Reagan doing with defense what he accused previous administrations of doing with social welfare · just throwing billions at the problem and then the statistics show that poverty remains rampant?" 
For example, Aspln said spending for research and development In· creased 56 percent but by the Pen· tagon's own standards of 15 areas of U.S.-Sovlet technology competition, "there was no change In the relative standings In 11 of those tech· nologies. 

One call to DOMINO'S PIZZA" geta you our Monday special­a 16-lnch, single topping pizza lor just $7.99.1t's a great way to get together with three other students and enjoy a hot, custom-made pizza lor about $2 eech~ 
And Domino's Pizza Delivers·•· Free. In 30 minutes or less, or you get $3 off your order. 
So make the call that makes Monday •peclel. Call Domino's Pizza' lor our $7.99 Monday speclel, available all evening evary Monday. 

Call us: 277-2151 
1835 South Bend Ave. Plaza 23 Center South Bend 
0Jttcli, r·
Joe! rr'Jl· 

DOMINO'S 
PIZZA 
DELIVERS® FREE. 

Bishops issue new draft ofletter 
WASHINGTON · Unfazed by 
conservative critics, Roman Cat· 
holic bishops issued a strong new 
draft of their pastoral letter on the 
economy yesterday, calling 
poverty amid America's riches a 
"social and moral scandal." 
The letter, aimed at national 
policymakers as well as the na­
tion's 52 million Catholics, calls for 
basic policy changes, including 
government job programs and 
defense spending cuts opposed by 
President Reagan. 
Approximately 300 church leaders will discuss the new text at 
.next month's annual meeting of the National Conference of Cat· holic Bishops, with a final vote not due until November 1986. 
The first draft, released just after the 1984 election, was widely described as mirroring many ofthe economic "fairness Issues" that Democratic candidate Walter Mondale used against Reagan. 
Administration officials have said little publicly about the letter, but their conservative allies blasted It as naive and misguided. 
The head of the five-man draft· ing committee, Archbishop Rem· bert Weakland of Milwaukee, noted "the richness" of response to the first version and said in releasing the new draft: "we do not back away from our strong convlc· lion that more can and must be 

done to fight poveny and un· 
employment." 

The document has been shor­tened by 20 percent · to 106 pages despite addition of a new section calling for help for family farms· In response to complaints about length, W eaidand said. But he also said bishops have generally "affirmed and supponed the basic concepts and the thrust of the first draft." 
In its new form, the letter declares that: 
•Having 
a job with a fair wage Isn't just a goai but a basic right, and the current unemployment levels that government officials brag about are "neither Inevitable nor morally acceptable." 

•"Extreme 
Inequalities of income and consumption," which are obvious among individual Americans as well as American and foreign nations, are morally "appalling" and threaten world or· der. 

•"Some 
elements of the military budget are both wasteful and dan· gerous for world peace. Careful reductions should be made ... to free up funds for social and economic reforms." 

•Welfare 
reform Is badly needed, including federally or· dered minimum benefits and eligibility standards for poor families whose benefits now can vary greatly from state to state. 


"Although we believe these judgments are correct and wiU stand up to public scrutiny, we acknowledge that differing conclu­sions are possible even among those who share the same moral objectives," the bishops said. 
But they claimed more moral authority, at least for Catholics, in their broader condemnations of selfishness and discrimination and their urgings for changes. 
Missing from the new version are some specifics that brought criticism that the bishops were In over their economic heads In the first draft. For example, there Is no longer an insistence on a national commitment to reduce unemploy· ment · now 7.1 percent · to 3 per· cent or 4 percent. 
Still, there Is no softening of the bishops' call for the government either to directly hire jobless people or to subsidize their pay In private jobs. 
Reagan has rejected many such programs as proven failures and has said the best way to lower un­employment Is through economic growth. But the bishops say their approach "would provide jobs for those with low skills less ex· pensively and with less inJlatlon than would general stimulation of the economy." 
Far from totally critical of the 

U.S. economic system, the bishops say: "In the few short centuries of our history the economy has grown to provide a very high stan· dard of living for most of Its people." 
Anti-apartheid week slated at ND 
By ELLYN MASTAKO 
StaffReporter 
This week has been designated "Apartheid A~areness Week" by the Notre Dame Anti·Apanheid Net· work. The network Is an organiza­tion of students, faculty, and staff "who want to increase awareness of the oppression perpetuated by the apanheld system In South Africa," according to a "fact sheet" dis· tributed by the group. 
Initially, tne Notre Dame Anti· Apartheid Network was a "loose coalition" of Interested students, who attended a Feb. 1985 Black Studies lecture by Randall Robinson. The Network now has representatives from every dorm on campus and from other campus 
groups. Among the week's events will be an Information table in front of the Hayes-Healy Center. Fact sheets per· talning to apartheid and information 
concerning action taken across the 

United States against South Africa's apartheid policies wiU be available. The table will be open today through Friday from 11 to 1 p.m. 
Peter Walshe, professor of government and international studies and director of African studies, will give a lecture titled "South Africa: What's It all about?" on Tuesday at 8 p.m. In the library lounge. 
Wednesday, a ffim will be presented In the Center for Social Concerns at 8 p.m. titled, "South Africa: One Nation, Two Nationalisms." Another movie, "The Last Grave at Dlmbaza," Is scheduled for Thursday evening at 8. 
This Friday has be named "Anti· Apartheid Action Day" by the American Committee on Africa, a na· tlonal anti-apartheid private or­ganization based In New York City. 
There will be rallies and protests around the country and Notre Dame's Anti-Apartheid Network has planned a rally to culminate the weeks events. It will be held on the Administration Building steps to honor this day. 
Other activities on Friday begin at noon with a live band outside LaFonune. The rally Is scheduled for 4 p.m. and speakers Include Student Body President BIU Healy, Walshe, and Motumbo Mpanya, a KeUogg In· stitute Fellow from Zaire. University President Father Theodore Hes: burgh has also been Invited to speak. 
Mary Frances Berry, a United States civil rights commissioner, will speak Friday at 7 p.m. In the Ubrary Auditorium on "The U.S. Response to Apanheid from the Campus to the Congress." 
Berry, along with Randall Robin· son, launched the current anti· apanheld movement In the United States, said Pat Baccanarl, a member ofthe network. 
Earlier this year, Berry and Robin­son walked Into the South African embassy In Washington, D.C. and refused to leave until some action was taken. 




The Observer Monday, October 7, 1985 -page 4 

I 

;' j 
t 
" 
.. .4: 
l 
,' 
" 
J 

Waiting 

A small girl pokes ber bead lbrougb tbe bars as otben bang onto tbe fence outside Mexico City's juarez Hospital Wednesday, waiting for word on tbe fate oftbetrfriends and family members stillmissingandpresumeddeadbeneatb tbe rubbleoftbe bospital. 

Senate refuses to cut short debate of proposed balanced budget law 
WASHINGTON · Despite a last­minute plea from President Reagan, the Senate refused yesterday to choke offdebate on a proposal man­dating a balanced budget by I 991 and left in doubt urgently needed legislation to continue the govern­ment's borrowing authority. 
The Senate voted 57-38 for the so· called cloture motion to limit debate on the amendment, but It was seven votes shon of the neces­sary two-thirds majority and meant that further action on Increasing the national debt limit remained stalled. 
At the White House, spokesman Alben Brashear said he could not say what specific problems would be caused by failure to enact the debt limit measure. 
"Zero hour is approaching," Reagan said in a statement issued from his weekend Maryland retreat at Camp David just hours before the Senate convened yesterday after­noon. "By tomorrow (today), the 

United 
continued/rom page 1 

gantze these activities. "We're also asking all clubs to put on events or donate to the United Way cam­paign." Additionally, "(Student volunteers) senior Colm Connolly and sophomore Frank Mackie will be asking area businesses to donate," McNamara said. 
"There is a lot ofwork that needs to be done," said Huber. "We en­courage anyone who wants to get in­volved in organizing the week to get in touch wilb us." 
By giving to the United Way, "you're helping your community," said McNamara. This drive is "the basic fundraising that supports ac­tivities in South Bend It's much more dBcient for one big group to suppon the other groups. That way they only hit you once." 
1be United Way of St. Joseph County supports such groups as Big Brothers/Big Sisters, the Salvation Army, the local branch of the American Cancer Society, Council for the Retarded, and the YWCA 
McNamara noted the United Way chapters locally decide where their money is appropriated. 

The area chapter does not suppon P~ Parenthood, said McNatalira. "Our chapter aids Cat­holic Sociai Services which arran~s 
adopdoal." . 
federal government's cash balances will be virtually exhausted and we will be facing a financial emer­gency." 
Debate on the balanced budget plan offered by Sens. Phil Gramm, R­Texas, Warren Rudman, R-N.H., and Ernest Hollings, 0-S.C., has held up legislation Increasing the national debt limit, which Treasury Depart­ment officials have said must be done by today to avoid disruptions ofgovernment financial operations. 
In general, opponents say the pen­ding plan would disproportionately hit domestic spending programs that have been cut previously, and give the president too much power to cut spending. 
Senate Majority Leader Roben Dole, R-Kan., told his colleagues that some senators "don't want to cut spending.... Some don't want to do anything unless it's raise your taxes and dismantle defense." 
Nonetheless, he fell shon of the 
necessary majority. 
coraiaLfy invit£.5 ___. to atteruf a FALL SHOW OF NEW PRODUCTS On Campus 
presenti119 items such as 
• 'Efectronic 'Writif19 'Board  • 'Book 'Biru:fus  
·  CoCor Copiers  -Paper Shredders  
• Gruk/Scimtific rants  . PhiLips Offia PartTttT  

· PC to t:ypesttter communications · CoCor pCottu atui Jl..'B. 'Dick 'l(WS 
DATES: 'TutSciay, October 8, 1985 Wecint.Sciay, Octo6er 9, 1985 TIMES: On tftt fiour · every fiour 
10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. 
PLACE: 1vforris Jnn %umni :R._oom 
:R._efreshmmts wif! 6e sCveli 
'Bri119 your 6usint.Ss card so we can faminate it for your fug9119e tlJ9S. 
Since a change in Senate rule!! is involved, It would take a two-thirds majority of those voting instead of the usual 60 for a so-called cloture motion. 
But Dole had said that even if he:: got a simple majority, "Then I think the burden's on those holding us up." 
Democrats and Republicans alike have agreed that passage of some son ofbalanced budget legislation is likely and would be wonhwhile. 
"We all want to balance the budget," said Senate Democratic Leader Robert Byrd ofWest Virginia. 
But Democratic leaders, and some Republicans, have resisted efforts by GOP leaders to force quick action on the plan that is being offered as an amendment to the measure raising the debt limit from the current na­tional debt limit from its current S1.824 trillion to S2.078 trillion. 
Byrd has offered instead to sup­pon a small increase in the debt limit to allow more time to consider the controversial amendment. 

Terrorists won't release Russians until U.S. and Soviets end civil war 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -A caller saying he represented the extremist group holding three Soviet Embassy per­sonnel hostage said yesterday they would not be freed until the Soviet Union and America end Lebanon's 10-year-old civil.war. 
The anonymous caller told aWes­tern news agency that the group hol­ding the Soviets, the Islamic liberation Organization, also ap­pealed to another terrorist organiza· tion not to free the American and French hostages that it kidnapped. 
Guerrillas of the Islamic libera­tion Organization, a Moslem fun­damentalist group, kidnapped three Soviet diplomats and a Soviet Em­bassy doctor on Monday and the body of one, Cultural Attache Ar­cady Katkov, was found Wednesday in a West Beirut suburb. He had been shot in the head. 
In its initial repon of the abduc­tions, the Islamic liberation Or­ganization threated to kill all four Soviet hostages unless Syrian­backed militias halted their of­fensive against the Moslem fundamentalist Tawheed militia in the northern port city ofTripoli. 


But the caller said the Islamic liberation Organization would not free the Soviets even though a ceasefire took effect yesterday in Tripoli, with Syrian troops moving into the city and disarming the rival militiamen after three weeks of fierce fighting. 
"The heretics think they can in­vest this truce to deceive us into releasing the hostages," the caller said in Arabic. "We emphasize that this (kidnap) operation will not end that easily and it will not be the last. We shall not release the hostages. 
"Therefore, we appeal to our brot­hers and comrades of Jihad Islami (Islamic Holy War) to intensify operations against the Soviets and Americans alike and plead with them not to release the hostages they hold." 
Islamic Jihad is believed to hold at least five Americans and four Frenchmen hostages. 

The Enhanced and Expanded Statiatlcal Package for IBM PC/XT/AT'a 
SPSSIPC •. CIOIJOned Wllh 
SPSSIPC• Adlon::ed s.-a· and SPSSIPC• Tables." torm THE 
rooot~SIIIISIICal 
~~b-.:.~ 
has meant high QU8Irty maonframe 
"""-AIIIIwae~""""· 
--and languag8 00fT"4)811bll1y '""" 1he maonframe """""""" And
SPSSIPC• a>m80 Wllh 8'My1IW1g 
~~~ 
pDage-"'""""'docutnetUIIon 
and cusoner support SPSSIPC__!_______ ---·-­
• 
Dtsp/lly tn8IIIJfJ8f &­

• 
File msfehmg & "-lfl


.Mle--popular
PC PfD!T8ITIS 
""""""'a/ proc­
·--&
• 
CIOsstabulaiJon 

• 
DescroptNe st-• 


·Wbple­
• AN(AA ·-&vaphs 
•ReJUbledlllarr.....­
•eu-ntzednoports 
SPSSIPC+ AIMHCEDnm&1)CS
.AW«M 
• F«::rx ana/IISIS 
• CtJsler analysis 
• 
Disc,.,.,., ana/IISIS 

• 
L.ogiiMw ..-.g 


SPSSIPC+ 1IIIUS
.Siull&-­
• Wbple oesponse Mia
·-QUMiy
tllblesandreports 
• Full range 01 petr;nttgmg 
and-.aptJons 


SJSSir1c. PROOUCTlVITY RAISED 10 THE HIGHEST POWER. 
sPS5Jf'C .,_on..t9Mfi'C,.TIII.T ___ CarliaSf"SSh: 
D~~·PCtiii~PC'.<AI_W....._tf __ 

~"'-""""Coopo<-.;.nsP'>SSP!oS'Pl <;PSS•P( SPS!,IPr ~-9PSS·PC. ~S.-1-N~OISPSS,....D••--• ~1101'1-SPSSIPC ~~-SPSSifJC llbn-sepA~-.~...-d!I(Jl)-IO;I~S'PC 

MORE Slats. Power' IMPROVED F1le Handling Reportmg' 
Accent 
Monday, October 7, 1985-page 5 
ND senior overcomes alcohol dependency 
many new friends through AA and the other campus activities I'm involved with." 
As both a student and a recover­ing alcoholic, Mark believes it is important to relate his story and publicize the various alcohol aware­ness and help programs available on campus. 
"Since I am a student," Mark said, "it might seem more credible ifI instead ofthe administration brought up the question ofalcohol abuse." 
And Mark's actions show his intentions are more than talk. He and several concerned faculty members and administrators formed an informal group to prod the administration into implement­ing a more meaningful alcohol awareness program. 
One partial result ofthe group's efforts is an open Alcoholics Anonymous meeting to be held tonight in the Dillon Hall chapel. Proposed curriculum changes to include alcohol-related courses also can be attributed directly to Mark's impetus. 
"As it stands now, the University does not offer even one course designed to educate people about alcohol and drug addiction," Mark said. By personally lobbying for a change in curriculum, Mark has been able to interest faculty in the subject. The new course, Mark suggests, could be fashioned after 

I 
t's Friday. You grab a beer, and 
then another. At well past mid­
night you're still drinking; for some 
reason you don't stop until you pass 
out. Can you relate to this ex­
perience? 
It's an experience Mark H. , a 
senior at Notre Dame, certainly 
knew well before he hit rock bot­
tom as an alcoholic and changed his 
drinking habits. 
Mark first began drinking heavily as a freshman. "Every weekend was the same," he said. "I'd go out with my friends and end up totally wasted. And every weekend I'd think It'd be dltlerent -I'd meet the girl ofmy dreams or something ­but funny thing Is, it never changed." 
By establishing a routine ofhappy hours and parties, Mark found him­self forming habits over which he soon had little control. "I'm not saying that no one can handle drink­Ing and partying, but I couldn't. I didn't know when to stop." 
Mark spent his sophomore year studying in lnnsbruck where his drinking only Intensified. By the time he returned to Notre Dame as a junior, his drinking problem became serious enough to merit the 
Mary Jacoby 
assistant features editor 
attention ofthe administration. He 
was faced with severe disciplinary 
action: expulsion. 
"I had hit the lowest point," Mark said. "The reality was that I was going to be kicked out ofschool ifI didn't change." He was referred to the Counseling and Psychological Services Center byJohn Goldrick, associate president ofstudent af­fairs. 
Through his involvement with a group called Students on Alcohol Problems, a group sponsored by Counseling and Psychological Services, Mark was able to recognize and deal with his depen­dency. Although denial was a major problem at first, M:~o:k was jolted into dealing with his problem by the threat ofexpulsion. "That got me to sit up and take a look at my life." Determined to stick to his recovery, Mark has not had a drink since September oflast year, al­though he still attends parties where alcohol is served. 
"It's really difficult to avoid drink­ing in a college atmosphere. I've had a hard time holding on to my old friends, because I don't have as good a time hanging out with them and not drinking. But I've made 



The Observer/Paul Clfarelli 

Randy Owen belts out one ofAlbama'a big bits during tbe country supergroup's concert last ntgbt at tbe ACC. Tbe concert was South Bend's bot ticket last night as tbe ban_dshared tbe btl/ wttb Tbe]udds and tbe always-spirited Charlie Dante/'s Band. Tbe triple-band show left tbe sold-out audience ex­hausted, but tt was a good kind ofexhausted. 
The Observer /Paul Cifarelli 

the popular Psychology 357 offered at Saint Mary's. 
"Even if you yourselfare not an alcoholic," Mark added, "you will most likely come in contact with people who are and need to know how to deal with them." 
Every weekend was the saaae. fd go out with aay friends and end up totaUy wasted. And every weekend fd think It'd be dlfterent • f d aaeet the girl of DIY dreams or something • but funny thlag Is, It never changed. 
-Mark H. 
· lbe University's perceived lack ofresponse in the area ofalcohol programs also has prompted Mark's personal crusade. Uncoordinated punishments for alcohol offences, Mark believes, only hide the serious drinker from real help. 
"The problem with the alcohol policy is that it's only made drinkng more difficult on campus," Mark said. "Getting drunk still occurs." 
Dan McCullough 
features staffwriter 

In effect, Mark is trying to hold the administration closer to its professed desire to help those stu­dents with chemical dependencies. 
In addition to acting as a kind of liaison between the administration, faculty, the Counseling and Psyc­hological Services Center, and students, Mark also hopes that by telling his own story he might per­suade other problem drinkers to overcome their embarrassment and denlal and face up to their situation. 
Goldrick, as part of the Office of Student Affairs, sees cases like Mark's frequently. "Often there is a great deal ofdenial and shame when it comes to a chemical depen­dency problem," Goldrick said. He also said he feels that Mark's student status gives him an advantage over administrators in helping his peers: "I support Mark's efforts fully," Goldrick said. 
Tonight's AA meeting at Dillon begins at 7 p.m. Anyone interested in learning more about the or­ganiiation and alcoholism in general is encouraged to attend. 
The abbreviated name Mark H. is used because according toAA tradition no membermay allow btsfull name to be usedpublicly tn connecton with the organiza­tion. 

Alabama warms ACC with fantiliar tunes 
T 
he message in many ofcountry­
pop supergroup Alabama's 
songs is that after a long week, a 
person has earned the right to let 
loose and enjoy life's simple 
pleasures. 

Last night at the Notre Dame 
ACC, Alabama brought simple 
pleasure to the sold-out audience 
that had gathered to hear the band's 
familiar sound during the South 
Bend stop on the "40 Hour Week" 
tour. The group whipped the crowd 
into a frenzy. 

Shrieks and cheers shook the 
south dome ofthe arena from the 
time the band first took the stage to 
the chords oftheir recent single, 
"Can't Keep a Good Man Down," 
until the concert's grand finale, the 
melancholy "My Home's in 
Alabama." 

Singer Randy Owen kept the crowd consistently excited, prod­ding the audience with winks and smirks and making young girls sweat with gyrations and occasional spastic leaps. While he looked more than a little like Larry Storch oilTV's "F-Troop," bad haircut and all,1be audience hung on every gesture and loved it. 
Less vibrant were guitarist jeffrey Cook and bassist Teddy Gentry. Alabama is one of the few country groups that tours extensively, and these two band members appeared to show the weariness ofbeing on the road. They looked just plain tired. 
But their lethargic apearance didn't stop the gro~p from kicking out the foot-stomping tunes that have made them the hottest band to hit the country music scene. 
Their repertoire during the more than two-and-a-half hour concert varied from the catchy "The Closer You Get," to the slow but spiritied, "Fire in the Night," to their latest hit single, "40 Hour Week." 
In concert, Alabama vlrtually duplicates the album versions of their songs, so there were few musi­cal surprises for the hungry audience. But that didn't stop the very responsive crowd from letting offsteam by screaming and ap­plauding throughout the show. 
Anyone who has been to 1be Commons is familiar with the Alabama song, "IfYou're Gonna Play in Texas (You Better Have a Fiddle in the Band)." The song was one ofthe highlights ofthe show, as Cook momentarily came out ofhis apparent catatonic state to saw the strings ofhis purple violin until the audience came to its feet. 
Though predictable, Alabama gave the audience what it came for ­the familiar songs that appear and reappear on their favorite country music radio station. 
The show was South Bend's hot ticket last night. Sharing the bill for Alabama was The judds, a mother and daughter team whose acoustic sound and precise harmonies warmed up the audience and en­deared the pair ofpretty redheads into its collective heart. · 
Next, the old stalwart ofcountry­rock, The Charlie Daniels Band, gave a spirited performance ofits numerous hits, including "Long­Haired Country Boy," "The South's Gonna Do It Again," and the newest single, "American Farmer." 
Daniels, looking like a Yuppie­cowboy in a button-downed white shirt, silk tie, and trademark Steuon, satisfied the crowd's appetite for his unique brand ofcountry-rock the moment he played the first few bars of"The Devil Went Down for Geor­gia." The place went up for grabs. 
All in all, the show was a captivat­ing example ofwhat country music can be -capturing the spirit ofthe real America in the simple songs of these three talented groups. 

~i~~~_<>__i_Il__t________________M_o_nd-ay,~O-cto-be-r7~,1~98-5-~pag~e-6 
Students should support underpass for U.S. 31 
In 1984, there were 85 accidents on the strip ofU.S. 31 between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. In the first six months of 1985, there :were 39 accidents on this strip. In September of this year, one such accident particularily touched the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community. Kevin Hurley, a Notre Dame freshman here only three weeks, was injured critically when struck by a car as he crossed 
U.S. 31 on his way back to Notre Dame from Saint Mary's. 
Eric Wold 
guest column 

Clearly, something must be done to prevent similiar tragedies from occurring in the future. U.S. 31 is an interstate highway carry­ing vehicles traveling over the posted 40 
m.p.h. speed limit. At times, the volume of high speed traffic makes a stop light essential for pedestrians to cross; however, the pos­sibility ofvehicles running the red light at U.S. 31 and Main Drive (the primary entrance to Saint Mary's) is very great given the speed of the vehicles and the poor lighting of the area. On Friday and Saturday nights, this dangerous combination is multiplied. On weekend evenings, there is a great increase in pedestrian traffic between the two schools as well as increased motorist traffic on U.S. 31. The weekend also increases the probablity one or both of these two groups have been drinking. The alcohol combines with the poor lighting to dangerously impair judgement. Thus, on weekends the highspeed of motorists, increased volume of motorist and pedestrian traffic, poor lighting and the pos­sibility of drinking combine to create an ex­
tremely volatile situation. 
The most suitable solution to this problem lies in bypassing the danger zone. A pedestrian underpass beneath U.S. 31 at Main Drive would do this perfectly. Student Body Presi­dent Bill Healy has suggested the construction of a bypass to the University administration who are "considering" the proposal. A pos­sible objection by the University would be even ifa bypass is built there is no guarantee it will be used; however, if the bypass is made safe and convenient for students there would be no reason not to use it given the danger of U.S. 31. Even if a few choose not to use the underpass, the community will have done all it can to keep its students safe. Notre Dame takes pride in providing a healthy religious, academic and social environment for its stu­dents. Students may choose whether to take advantage ofit or not; however, the University must provide a safe environment for its stu­dents even though a few may not take advantage ofit. 

In order to have the underpass built and built soon,-all areas of the the Notre Dame community must work together. Because of the overlapping ownership of the area by Main Drive and U.S. 31. The state owns the highway and the surrounding land is owned by Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. The state must cooperate with Notre Dame and Saint Mary's to build the underpass. According to 
.Joseph Zakas, a state legislator who represents the district in which Notre Dame is located, said the University would probably have to help fund the underpass ifit were to be built. Zakas suggested a member of the Board of Trustees or an alumnus fund a feasibility study for the project. 
Another way the University can help the progress of the project is to use its influence to cut through the state bureaucracy. Accord­ing to County Engineer Bob Richardson, it is difficult to go through bureaucratic channels on a project such as this due to the overlap­ping responsibility for construction on both state and private land. He also noted going through normal channels construction could not begin for at least five years. This is due to Indiana's five year "Planning Program" whereby a project approved now will have funds projected for it five years down the road. Five years is far too long to wait. 
Student pressure may be the most impor­tant factor in the construction of the under­pass. The administration and the state cannot ignore the will of 10,000 people. Students showed their concern for Kevin by overfilling Sacred Heart Chapel for a Mass praying for his recovery. It is now time they show their con­cern for future victims by making sure there are no more victims ofU.S. 31. 

A final note: A collection at tbts Sunday's Masses bas been scheduled to benefit Kevin. 
Eric Wold is a freshman atNotre Dame. 

ND students.have no need for Student Affairs 
Not being a Dillon Hall resident (in fact, beingan off-campus townie), I'm not involved emotionally with the dorm's loss of an SYR Most of the story, however, struck me as a little on the wild side. Beyond the most ob­vious questions of the jurisdiction of the Office ofStudent Affairs across state lioes and the culpability of the whole dorm in relation to a non-dorm function, some othc:rs puzzled me a bit more. 
JeffBorkowski 
guest column 

For openers, why doesn't StudentAffairs ex­plain itself? Clearly, some things which go on in Student Affairs must be kept confidential to protect innocent reputations. John Goldrick's refusal to comment in this case doesn't fit that disclaimer. 
Even the National Foo'tball League can spell it out now: "Personal foul, Dillon Hall, im­proper use of fight song, 15 yards and loss of SYR" This kind of expbnation at least would help other dorms to get an idea ofthe range of authority that StudentAffairs claims to invoke. 
Put simply, the Notre Dame student body is not pressuring University officials to explain their actions, which I feel leads to other problems in kind. 
For example, who are the "high-ranking University officials" who received all those complaints? Do people really take time out to dial up Fathers Hesburgh, Joyce, Tyson, or Beauchamp, or any of our lay officials, about lewd songs sung by people wearing Notre Pame T-shirts? 


THE WORLD P~EPARES fOR SUMM\T 

Doonesbury 
H/5 PEOPLeMe. fJai£LOP­/N6 SOM/3. N£3/A/ PR/J/)()Cf5 
FOR THe £;[)(}CATIONAL­MAI?.J<CT, ANI? THeY'Re 5HOPP!NG AROUNI? TH/3 AI?AcaJUNT. 
I 

In all honesty, I wouldn't be surprised if they did because Notre Dame has a national reputation, and both alumni and disinterested parties have strong opinions about what should and shouldn't go on here. 
Our officials are extremely selective, however, in responding to such complaints. People complain about everything that goes .on around here. Any sporting publication you read has something to say about our football program. There are two Catholic publica­
tions, The Wanderer and Fidelity, that spend 
some part of almost every issue reaming our 
theology department. 

The magazines don't mess around, either. 
Usually they accuse the department of 
socialism, atheism, communism or secular 
humanism, to name a few. 

For that matter, most medical critiques · 
(that I've seen)ofour alcohol policy decry its 
emphasis on punishment as a deterrent to 
abuse. Usually, such criticism by professionals 
in their field is ignored. But ifI were to call up, 
say I'm Napoleon, and say I saw Domers doing 
cocaine in Angers, Student Affairs French divi­
sion would be sure to check it out. 
The inherent presumption underlying the 
behavior of Student Affairs is we students are 
by nature depraved. That is annoying and in­
sulting because their distrust undermines the 
purported nature of Notre Dame. 
This is a pretty tough school to get admitted into. The average SAT is approximately 1200, almost everyone is in the top 1 0 or 20 percent of their high school, and three other people wanted our spots when we applied. 
To me, the implication is clear: Most of the 
axe murderers and child molesters are 
weeded out before they get here. It's tough to 
get here ifyou're a felon. It's tough to stayhere 
if you're on heroin. If we did have enough 
defect scruples to justifyStudent Affairs, you'd 
expect to see some signs of debauchery. I 
don't. 

In fact, this summer, I lived at a junior col­
lege in Michigan while I was on a summer in­
'mAH,BUT THifT/S HER£'5THc £XCIT/NG, eesTPA/lJ.MIKE. GUF355WHO TH/3/R Oi/CF\ ENGINEtR../5/ 
/ 

Garry Trudeau 
JlJ5TEJERNtc. mANI<S. ALOT
INTERESTING 

OF ffa>lE CAN'T
lOOK, MR.. 

Gt.Tf1l5TTH£
MR .. 
I 
Quote of the day 

"My grace is enough for you, for in weakness power reaches perfec­tion." 
-II Corinthians 12: 9 
ternship. The equivalentofStudent Affairs was 
an unarmed guard in a Chevette and 
housemother who spent a lot of her time in 
violation ofthe alcohol policy. 
Further, I was a Catholic minority in a 
mainly agnostic group. My dorm was coed. 
Our "social space" consisted ofa TV room and 
a basketball hoop, bring your own ball. 
In this situation opposite of Notre Dame, I 
also found no evidence of paganism: no 
mayhem, no moral turpitude, no wear and 
tear on my Catholic character. My dormmates 
and I did, however, have a very good time be­
cause we had our own well-formed limita­
tions to guide our behavior, not a book of 
blessings and curses. 
_My conclusion is this: Notre Dame students 
have no need for Student Affairs in its present 
form. Our community, like most college com­
munities, is not exactly frolicking in Satan's 
anteroom. 
If you think Student Affairs acts to protect 
us from something, think again. It merely 
places superflous restrictions on a basically 
responsible group of people. Of course, I 
grant Student Affairs the same courtesies I 
presume for the student body. There are no 
obvious moral deviants in the administration, 
either. 
I do believe, however, when good and com­petent people do silly things, it's because they don't understand the presuppositions under­lying their actions, because they have not had to justify them. That's why a "no comment" is so irritating. It's not just a matter ofinquiring minds wanting to know; it's a question of whether or not the powers that be really un­derstand what they are saying about our com­munity when they act as they did last week. 
If they heard themselves say, "I'm cancelling a major social event of the semester because you sang a dirty song at a party," maybe the silliness of that statement would make an impression. 

jeff Borkowski is a senior mechanical en­gineerlng major. 
"ie~P.~O~i~n~t_______________________________________________M_o_n_d~ay~,_o_c_to_b_e_r_7_,1_9_s_s_-_p_ag_e__7 
P.O.BoxQ 


Cheaper plastic candles not worth fire at Grotto 
Dear Edttor: 
Ukc: many studc:nts ofNotre Dame and Saint Mary's I am a regulae visitor of the Grotto. As anyone who has spent a few minutes there knows, it Is the: bc:st place to go for a moment of peaceful reflection, prayer or solitude. 
On Sunday, Sc:pt. 22, 1 went there as I do evc:ry Sunday to light a candle. When I arrived, 
was not surprised to see that there were none of the "big" candles left because it was a football weekend; many of our visitors like to go to the Grotto and light candles. The next morning on my way to class I walked past the Grotto and I was very upset to-see that there had bc:en a big fire there · big to the tune of Jl'),OOO. 
It Is nice: the: Unlvc:rslty tries to keep our costs low and In that effon replaced the old glass candle holdc:rs with cheaper plastic ones which, howevc:r, burned. After last week's fire I expected to see the lmflammable red glass holders that thc:y had bc:fore. So, as c:very Sun­day, I was there: this weekend and must say I was impressed to sce that favorite place on campus was thoroughly cleaned and peaceful again. 
Howc:vc:r, the candles were there in the same flammable plastic containers. Can't we lc:acn from our mistakes? 
Dar1id Duncan Holy Cross Hall 

Notre Dame must have largest campus in world 
Dear Editor: 
I sc:e Dillon Hall has "forfeited" Its next SYR 
as a result of a private tailgater In Ann Arbor, 
Mich. You know, Michigan, not South Bend or 
Notre Dame. Sure, Michigan, the nor­
thernmost part of campus. Dillon should 
know bc:tter than that. Tailgaters are not 
allowed ofl campus. Tsk, tsk. 
Campus happens to be a very big place. Fon 
Laudc:rdale was declared the southernmost 
part of campus back in 1983 when a senior 
nearly wao; expelled for something he did 
there. Sorry, I mean "here". 
Why do people complain about the cold 
weather? Fort Laudc:rdale, the southernmost 
pact ofSouth Quad, is a great place to get a tan. 
You just have to walk a little fllnher. 
We are so lucky our ever-expanding campus spans from Ann Arbor to Fort Lauderdale and from sea to shining sea. That's millions and millions of square miles. I guess we have the largest campus in the world. In fact, we're bigger than most countries. 
I feel so safe and sccure that our campus is so large. And I hope Dillon really has a great time at their next SYR. 
Chris lust Notre Dame student 
Next ND president will come from hi_gh school 
Dear Editor: 
Many people I have talked to on this campus are certain Father Hesburgh will be retiring in the near future. 
What I'd like to know is: is there any truth to the rumor that Father Joyce is searching for a high school principal to replace Hesburgh as the president of the University? 
Given Joyce's reputation for hiring under­qualified personnel to assume important Uni­versity responsibilities, the issue could be of great importance. 
jeffGriffin Notre Dame student 
Some contrary points to Kennedy's letter 
Dear Editor: 
I am responding to Father Roben Ken­nedy's letter to the editor of Oct. 2 in which he laments the "mistaken theology" prescnted in a column by Stephen Safranek. This "mistaken theology" concerns the nature ofthe Sacrament ofReconciliation and the im­portance of the penitent. Allow me a few points ofclarification: 
• 
It would seem, as Father Kennedy suggests, that Lent is not "the time of fasting and preparation in anticipation of Christ's resur­rection" because surely Christ already has riscn. On tbe contrary, Lent is most especially a time of fasting in which we discipline our­selves to remember we are dust and our souls have an eternal destiny. In it also, we willingly suffer in union with Christ in His redemption ofhumanity. 

• 
It would seem, as Father Kennedy suggests, that "we cannot make sacrifices to God in reparation for our sins" because surely not· hing we do can influence God's intention of salvation for us. On tbe contrary, forgiveness is not effected in the person if he is not humbly penitent for his sins. Any true conver­sion in a penitent is followed by actions which will manifest a true resolution. 




• It would seem, as Father Kennedy suggests, that "Christ gave the church no 'explicit ad­monition' to institute Penance" because surely the Church simply has extended Christ's mercy and forgiveness. On the con· trary, the Lord Himself instructed the apostles to go and forgive sins. This always has been integral to the apostolic tradition. 
Finally, what seems lost in Father Kennedy's critique is a deep sense of personal sin. Sin­ning boldly and relying upon God's mercy is not what Christianity is all about. Sin Is not found in the external world; it is only social in as much as it is the manifestation of many impure hearts. 
U human justice is really that which we should aU be seeking, let usfirst seek to amend our own hearts with a zealousness and purity that Is so generously afforded in the confes· sional. 
Frederick Everett Notre Dame Law School 
Little girl offers some 
possibly good advice Dear Editor: 
In her nine year old Innocence, my daughter may have a real idea. As we were watching the Notre Dame vs. Purdue game:, in an c:ffon to chc:er on the Irish, she was singing: 
"Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame, 

Wake up tbe echoes cheering ber name, 
Send the Holy Spirit tn..." 
Out ofthe mouths ofbabes. 

Sherry Knapke Fort Wayne/nd. 
Student leaders should address pressing issues 
Dear Editor: 

"We're just kicking a dead horse," said Sc:nator K.C. Culum, amidst the continual probing of The Obscrver's finances. Exactly. We kept hoping the issue would roll over and die, just like all the other issues the Student Senate likes to get all up in arms about, but alas, it did not. 
And now we: are hooked. We anxiously await the highly-touted release of The Obser­ver's financial statements. As the once stable (or stagnant)political atmosphere now makes headlines with "sccret meetings" and con­fidential correspondence between high­ranking student officials, our six dollars (the: annual fee for roughly 175 Observers) hangs in limbo. 
What sort of heinous abuscs of our money will this muckraking turn up? Could the rumors of J4,000 typewriter ribbons and a new six-figure contract for Zeto's author Kevin Walsh, not to mention the reports of Obscrver Editor-in-Chief Sarah Hamilton pricing a new DP snub-nosed Porsche 93'> be: true? 
Let's just thank our lucky stars for the ever vigilant political watchdog Student Body President Bill Healy. Remarkable, isn't it, how true crises bring out true leaders? 
Just when we thought the Student Senate: was a token political forum, capable ofdealing with only trivial issues, The Obscrver scandal surfaced. 
Seriously, folks, can't the senate come up with anything better to do than to dc:vote valuable hours, even days, questioning The Obscrver's financial integrity? While we believe this issue and others concerning the usc ofstudent fees is imponant, we feel more pressing issues could be addresscd. Here are a few suggestions: 
•The: inauguration of an annual block party, similar to the one held at Marquette, but with 
-
cheaper beer served by bikini-dad dining hall employees. 
•The 
suggestion of more theme nights for the dining hall, such as Hell night, an all green St. Patrick's day meal and perhaps even another unroasted pig fest. 

•The 
attempt to break more stupid Guinnes..o; book records. 


With these suggestions, perhaps we tO<J have gotten carried away. After all, the horse.· is getting cold. 
Matt Roy Ttm Scanlan Rick Lyons Alumni Hall 

Corrigan should worry about football program 
Dear Editor: 
Perhaps If Gene Corrigan spent more time worrying about his football program and less time: worrying about some: c:nthuslastic stu­dents running onto the field, we: might scc: some: positive: results. 
Hey, I know, why not scnd Don Johnson and his Saint Mary's fric:nds, who arc: dc:finitdy not getting what thc:y paid a lot of monc:y for, running onto the: fidd when an opposing run­ner breaks away? Maybe: they wiU tackle: him. 
Eric Hunter Notre Dame student 



P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univefsity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It doeS not necessarily reflect the pol1cies of the admmistration ot e1ther institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­sible. Uns1gned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­taries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. is encouraged. 
Editorial Board 

Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan News Editor ................................... Keith Harrison Jr News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Sports Editor ........................................... Jeff Bfumb Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy Viewpoint Editor ........ : ........................... Joe Murphy Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches Copy Chief ..............................................Frank Lipo 
Operations Board 
Business Manager ...................... David Stephenitch Controller ............................. William J. Highducheck Advertising Manager .............................. Jim Hagan Systems Manager ......................... Mark B. Johnson Production Manager ....................... John A Mennell 
Founded November 3, 1966 

------------------~-------­
Sports Briefs 
The ND soccer team raised its season record to 3-7­3 this weekend with a 4-2 victory over Wright State and a 2-2 tic with Miami (Ohio) at the Wright State Tournament in Dayton, Ohio. The Irish, who will play host to Marquette Wednesday at 3 p.m. on Alumni Field, finished second in the tournament. -Tbe Observer 
The ND volleyball team went to s-s overall with three victories this weekend. The Irish beat Dayton, 15-12, 15-4, 15-12;Marqucttc, 15-2,17-15, 15-3;andXavicr, 15-12, 16-14,15-2. The Irish will play at Loyola W cdncsday night. -Tbe Observer 
The SMC soccerteamdropped to 1-7 this weekend, losfnB on the road to Wisconsin-Milwaukee, 6-2. Sue Schicrl and Katy Boldt scored for the Belles. -Tbe Observer 
Father Hesburgh and Digger Phelps 
will participate in a report on sports in American culture tonight and tomorrow at 5:30 p.m. on CBS-TV's "The Evening News with Dan Rather." The program airs locally on WSBT-lV, channel 22.­
Tbe Observer 
The novice fencing program will begin 
today at 6:30p.m. in the fencing gym above Gate 4 ofthe ACC. Any students, both men and women, who are interested may attend the first session in athletic attire. Thereafter, practices will be every Monday and Wednesday from 6:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. For more in· formation, contact fencing coach Mike DeCicco. · Tbe Observer 
I 

Monday; October 7, 1985 -page 8 
Bodyfat measurementswill be provided by NVA today from 7:15p.m. to 9 p.m. at the NVA in the ACC. The testing is free for all students, faculty and staff. -Tbe Observer 
The ND Irish Link Club will show tapes of the all-Ireland finals in hurling and Gaelic football today at 5 p.m. in the basement ofGrace Hall. Pizza and refreshments will be provided for 
14. · Tbe Observer 

The NDJVhockeyteam will be meeting Wednes­day at 7:15 p.m. in the hockey pro shop in the ACC. Call Marty at 277-7571 for more information.-Tbe Observer 
NVA co-ree basketball rosters orfive men and five women are due Wednesday at the NVA office in the ACC. Call 239­6100 for more information.-Tbe Observer 
NVA racqetball tournament entries are due 
Wednesday at the NVA office in the ACC. The best-of-three singles tourney includes three divisions: men's, women's and grad-faculty. Call 239-6100 for more information.-Tbe Obseroer 
NVA volleyball tournament entries are due 
Wednesday at the NVA office in the ACC. Two tournaments· one for co-ree teams of three men and three women, and one for graduate student and faculty-are planned. Call 239-6100 for more informa­tion. -Tbe Observer 
Handball and badminton tournaments have been planned by NVA. The deadline for entries is Wednesday at the NVA office in the ACC. Call 239·6100 for more information. · Tbe Observer 
Tennis 
continuedfrompage 12 

Mary Colligan. She had a super weekend." 
Colligan paired with O'Brien in a 6-0, 6-3 doubles win, while Biafore ana Natalie Illig completed the doubles action with a 6-0, 4-6, 6-2 triumph. 
In other matches yesterday, Louis· ville topped Ferris State to notch a third-place finish, and Saint Mary's lost to Cincinnati to finish sixth in the tournament. 
Although her team was not chal­lenged, Gelfman was pleased with the weekend's activities. 
"It went well in that we finished all the matches despite the weat­her," she explained. "Even though we won easily, there was a lot of gooo tennis." 
The Irish leave Thursday for St. Louis, where they will participate in the North Star Conference Cham­pionships on Oct. 11-12. Gelfman doesn't expect much competition at the tournament, predicting that her squad will capture the title easily. 
Following the NSC Champion· ships, the next action for the Irish will be the Rolex Invitational in Madison, Wise. 
The Obsert,er Notre Dame offic:e. loc:ated on the third tloor of Lafortune Studem Cemer. accepts classified advertbing from l) a.m. until 'I p.m.. Monday through Friday. The Obsert,er Saint Mary's office. hKated on the third tloor of Haggar College Center. ac:c:epts dassifkds from 12:50 p.m. until j p.m.. :\ton· day though Friday. Deadline for next·day dassificds is .~ p.m. All classificds must be prepaid. either in person or hy maiL Charge is I 0 c:enls pa fivtc charac·
Classifieds 

ters r da 
NOTICES TYPING AVAII.A8LE 287-4082  LOST: ALRIGHT, I'VE HAD IT. ON 8/24 MY BLUE BACK PACK WAS STOLEN FROM THE SOUTH DINING HALL. I HAVE RUN THIS AD FORA WEEK AND I HAVE HAD NO LUCK. I AM REALLY PISSED! IT WAS AN OLD THING, BUT I WANT IT BACK. MY ROOMMATE'S MAROON JACKET WAS IN THERE AND  GIRL NEEDS RIDE TO BERGEN COUNTY N.J. OR NYC AREA FOR QC­TOSER BREAK. CALl LYNN 284·5519. FOR SALE  Need many USC GA tix. Wil pay big buctcai Pleue cal289-34n. NEED 2 GA'S lot USC GAME. CALl LAURA38311 Need 1 USC GA lot So. Cal. Dad. Wil pay good 1. c.1 Pete at 2353.  OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER I UOUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N.• 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. ········•······················································· Help ua avoid the Beantown bluee. Give ua a ride to Boaton ot vicini1y lot Octcber break. c.1 Maria 4174.  .a.TON CLU. •u1 .a.TON CLUI .UI .a.TON CLU• .UI Bring $50 Depolil tontrt, •=-7:00ptn in LaFortune Main Lobby (look lot the""-· lllatellag) JUNIOR NIGHT OUT!!! TUES OCT. 8111 AT BEACON BOWL  
TYPING CALL CHillS 2M-Itl7 EXPERT TYPING 277-fl534 AFTER 5:30  IF YOU DON'T GIVE ANYTHING ELSE BACK, PLEASE AT LEAST GIVE ME THE JACKET ~K. IF YOU HAVE IT, PLEASE SHOW SOME COMMON DECENCY AND CALl 3884. THANK YOU VERY, VERY MUCH!  11177 Olda Cut Sup Brouglam: 350 V~; pa,pb,A/C,T· Tope, Cruise,Recent Eagle Sta, 1 OOw Cuatom Stereo. Shlf!ll Robert 256-11346.  NEED 4 TICKETS FOR MISSISSIPPI GAMEINAREALBADWAY!IIWIUPAY BIG BUCKS!!!!! CALl PAUL 0. AT 3842 OR3640.  SENIORS FOR 11166-87, CONSIDER WORK WITH HOLY CR088 ASSOCIATES PROGRAM IN CHILE. APPUCATION DEADLINE NOV. 7. CALl MARY ANN ROEMER 7114i.  RIDE NEEDED TO CENTRAL PA FROM SOMEONE GOING EAST ON I 80 FOR OCTOBER BREAK! CALl MAURA 284· 4200  
-­ W~ng c.l Oolorw 27NI045 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALl MAS. COKER. 23$-70011 .....! ......................................................... . l1o-al0 WRIKLY/UP liMING Cllt­CUUMI NO QUOTMI ~y INI-110 IIU8H I&F­ADDIIDIID INV~: IUCCUa, PO 11011 4711CIEG, WOOIIe'TOCK, IL 101111. Prol.-on.l word ~ng .net typing. Convenient location on N. Ironwood. c.1 277-4220 lot .,po;ntment. \ LOST/FOUND I  LOST NAVY BLUE JANTZEN BACK­PACK ON WEDNESDAY, OCT. 2 AROUND 12:30PM IN SOUTH DINING HALL. CONTENTS INCLUDED HP-11 CALCULATOR, SEVERAL NOTEBOOKS AND FOLDERS, AND AN AERODYNAMICS TEXTBOOK. PLEASE RETURN TO LOST AND FOUND, 2ND FLR. LAFORTUNE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE LCMI'WOCKET WATCH-SILVER,NO CHAIN. LOST NEAR N8H ON SEPT.26. IF FOUND CALl 808 234-55711 LOST RING Ster1ing lilver w/ turquoiM IIane on bird c1M1Qn If found, ~ at11 1255. lt'e vry IITial. and ha14K111mental value! Loat Oct. 4.  11165 CHEVY 11. a c:laeeic. no ruat, rune great, 12000. 233-7463. TICKETS I NIID 4 TIX FOR ~ GAlli. WITAKE2IITIOF2. CAU.211-1711. NEED 2 GA'S FOR THE ARMY GAME. CALl SUE 284-54n. I MUD .._ FOR AIIIIY a UIC.2'72­GOI FREE SEX FOR 2 ARMY GA'S CALL CLAYTON AT 1373 ALSO PY CASH GOT ARMY TIX? P/U PHONE & CALl TONY 18113.  NIID PENN ITATI TUIIII Wll lrtode 2 Navy GA"a Fot 2 PennS-GA'a lfyou've.,e"-.....1111, caii&Mry al :IGIIZ NEED TIX FOR MISS. GAME! WIU PAY. TOP DOLLAR! REALLVII! CALl MARY AT 1323 IF YOU'RE WIUING TO NEGOTIATE!! need 2-4 G.A.'a lot Amry. atll P-..1 at 3510 HELP I!! MILLIONAIRE RECLUSE NEEDS 3 GAS AND 2 STUDENT TIX TO ARMY. WIU PAY $$$ CALl BIU EVE AND MORNINGS 28882116  SENIORS! SENIORS! SENIORS! HOI. Y CROSS ASSOCIATE: A CHANCE TO LEARN, TO GIVE. TO GROW AND TO LOVE. FOR INFO CALl 2»-5521 OR 2»-711411. Need 2 STUDENT TICKETS FOR THE USC GAME, preferably In 111e Seniot eec­tion .... WIU PAY 111$111! Uncle V. (2111)277-6856. HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES-Chile Side Show/Diecullion wi111 818cy Hen­.-y/Ciaude Pomert.u. Monday Oc­toller 7, at 111e escfrom 7~pm. ATTN. SERIOUS RUNNERS TERRY FOX RUN AT PURDUE 10/19 ENTRY FORMS IN LAFORTUNE ?'S CALl DREW3287 UMANPLUNGI  Anne, Sony it look me eo long toreapond to your note bu11 had eomepriorcommit,_,. to attend to. Buvone! Cheater OKTOSERFEST SENIOR CLASS OKTOBERFEST FRIDAY OCTOSER 11 AUTHENTIC GERMAN FOOD, BEER AND MUSIC ALUMNI/SENIOR CLUB 8pm-2am COME IEAALYl $3 COVER CHARGE FREE GlASS MUG WHILE SUPPLIES LAST. 0..Ozzie, HAPPY BIRTHDAY. Bucky!! 19--TOTALLY AWESOME ... I hope your dey i1 • wonderful • you •e. Love .net huge and ki-. Harriet P.S. Can't wait lot Octcber Break!!  
UMANPLUNGI  
LOST DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT RING. REWARD OFFERED. IF FOUND. PLEASE CONTACT ALICE 232-$l68. LOST: 8el ol 15 key8 on two Intercon­nected ring~ on 11/111/85. II you 111ink 111at you have found 111em. ~ atll Jon at 277~ 171 ot 23.e471. PlaMe leave your rwne .net number. LOST: dk. blue backpack In IOUih dining halll/30 lfOUnd 5:50p.m. coni-: Tl35 calculalor. eyegiMMe and ~. pink h~ter, band mulic, c:alrtnet reedl and mou111pi-. llaglnning French taodbook, ft. blue notebook, two computer ~. 11 eomeone haa n~at~ Sloan at 4553 ot bring to 838 P.E. No qu..tiona aeked. AU. IIIQHTII WHOIYIER "eoMOWID" IIY JOIIDACHI TWO­TONI DIJIM .IACKIT FROM THI IDH'I WORK-' COAT IliACI( ON 1121, I WOULD APPMCIATI ITI IIITUNI IJITMIIILY. I YALUI IT YIRY ..._y AND ~ ntl ONLY ONII HAY111L .U..10 PLIAII JUIT DROP IT OFF AT 400 LYONI OR CALL 2111. NO QUISTIOIII MKID. THANKYOUII LOST: a RED wo,_·e jacket in the lllnry ot in Cuehing. PLEASEIII c:ontac1 Rcltin at x4030 II found. ~.._, .Mnaport ......... lion­.,ntt.ln lou1h Dlnl,. ...._ CoMaiM..,.,Fnnch,...._,.,.. IR ~·· ­-happJ puppy Ifyou -*! raiUm "'-,no .,..._ ...._CIII KAJIIN al 211-4DI anyh-. FOUND: FOOTBALL TICKETS. PATRICK MOORE, PLEASE CALl LAURA AT 272-3764 TO CLAIM THEM. FOUND-NO SWEATSHIRT ON BURKE GOLF COURSE. CALl JIM AT 4663 TO IDENTIFY FOUND: FOOibal Ticket Book, c.l Mic­hele·1250toldentily.  FOR RENT RENT A COLOR TV OR MICROWAVE OVEN. LOW RATES. COLOR CITY/COLLEGATE RENTALS INC.,2587551 WANTED Need ride to Deyton any weekend. c.l Maria4174. $$$S$SWANTEDSS$$$$ Travel enthuli-wanted to join 111e na­tion'• ..-t~WPUtable Campua Rep. Salee T..,., e.n unlmited commi.-,. and Free tripe promoting Ski and ae.:h tripe. c.ISUNCHASE TOURS INC. Toclayl1­800-321·5811 NEED RIDE TO DETROIT AREA ON FRIDAY OCTOSER 11111. WIU SHARE EXPENSES PLEASE CALl KAREN 284­4244. NEED 4TH MALE FAST 4 NEARBY APT. 1121MTH11/4EL. 288-4753(LATE) RIDE NEEDED TO/FROM TERRE HAUTE FOR OCT.BREAK. WIU SHARE COSTS. MARIA· 51113 J081h1088-JOB&.JOBS Stil need SMC atudenta to participate in a lunchiling campaign. Wll c:ontacl24,000 lllum!IM, ~-.and lrienda by phone. E8pec:ialy inlereeted in girla who •e ataying here during October break. c.l Pat al53511ot .,intervi-. Lata ol ~! Writer looking lot information on unique ot invented gamee playec:l in dormiklry hlll­lwaya. Include --·.phone & epecilic rulea In reply. John Angelo 254 MelrOM St, Mancheeter NH 03103 PLEASE GIVE ME A RIDE HOME TO IN­DIANAPOLIS ON FRIDAY OCT. 11. JIM 4338.  ........... liE? I PAID GOOD MONEY FOR M.S.U. TKS. NOW I NEED 2 USC GA'S. GIVE STEVE A CALl AT 3318 BEFORE BREAK. WERE TALKING BUSINESS! WIU PAY BIG BUCKS FOR 3 ARMY GA'S AND 2 LSU GA'S CALl STEVE AT 1733/1757 NEED 2 ARMY GA'S. CALL JIM AT 1488. PLEASE HELP AN UNFORTUNATE SENIOR whOM family hu never -n Notre Dame!!!! Do you have 3 GAe lot 111e USC game? WII pay $1 Uncle V. (2111)277-6856. HIY YOUI Need caah fall? O.ta NAVY ticket (atud or GA)? We can make a deal· Name your price (it doeen't have to be money!) c.l13731ate. Wlahtolluy QA « atudentIIIII« UIC..... Clll Chuck at 1104. neec:l4 tixa to army cal2723481 (gu) NEEDED· USC GA'a. Wil pay top$! c.l Al287-8186. I NEED 2 OR 3 USC GA'S CALl MIKE AT 1605 OR STOP BY 304 GRACE, THE DIVE!! HAVE $$$.Need 1 USC & 1 Navy tix.c.l Pau13487. HelpII deeperately need 2 tixlot 111e USC game!!I Call Nancy x2784 BRING 2 NEWLYWEDS TO SOUTH SEND FOR A TASTE OF CAL. WIU PAY FOR TWO USC GAa. PLEASE HELP MY SIS'S MARRIAGE. CALl JEANIE 2857 Ler:s··;:AU(··;:~;:;:··;·N·iio'"oNE..u.sc GA OR STUD TICKET. CALl DAN 1208. ..need UIC QA'I and ITU TIX wiling to be creative cai23:MIItJ7  HEY BOY· You look might fine wi111 111em 4 ARMY Ga'a Now you know that I know 1hat you -.1 to ... "em to me, eo come aver here now-and I'm a give you lop dol­t.. c.l1087 andaeklorTed. THANX HIYI WIU TRADE 2 ARMY, NAVY, MISSI&­SIPPI, OR LSU GAe FOR UIC ltudent « ... 214-7412 JERIMY OR JOHN O.K. W.nted: Two ticketa lot the Army game. PleMe atll Mike at 3552 and make him a happy guy. ................................................................. NIID 2 111111-PPI TIX. call ilolt at 1... NEED TWO USC TICKETS REAL BAD! 3457 HEAR YE! Utile Siller coming up lote OLE MISS! The 1M1 haa ne'er a.ne NOTRE DAME h-eat home! Ooclea o1 caah Involved, wile tal<e GA ot STUD Tix! PLEEEEZE HELP! Calle 3457. Need 3 USC GAe. Wil pay any reMOntlbla price. c.1 Chria 18118 NEED USC GA TIXS WIU PAY WEU CALL 284-54114 ................................................................ PERSONALS ...~~~··;;;;...y;;;;;..'M;;;i;;~~:··;;,d··~~; enough, they're youl'l. The world i1 your •••cJN-book, 1111 PefiN oo which you do your •uma. It 11 not rwl/ty, lllthough you cen ••PfMI rwlitythereilyou wl1h. You.,. alto tree ro write IJOIIHnH, or H•. 01 ro tHI the pegN.  UMANPLUNGI Explore a new hortzon ... lake the Urban ,.,,._ A 48 hr. inner city i...,..on during Chri-break. Experience con­ditione ol poverty and lnjuatice while ln­aeuing your awar-ol what ilbeing done to alleviate th-probleme. Do the PLUNGE! UMANPLUNGE UMANPLUNGE UMANPLUNGE 8111: I can't go out with you thia weekend, oteveragain.lam going to the O.Y.B.O.I love you, but I love the D.Y.B.O. more. Candy BRIDGET'S BARGAINS: Good during al open houra on apecilied deya. MON & TUES -$.60 DRAFTS ... WED • $.75 ROOT BEER SHOTS ... THURS ·SUlO MOLSONS ... FRI· $.75 WATERMELON SHOTS ... $.35 HOT MUNCHIES DAILY. WASHINGTON DC BUS SIGN-UPS: TUES 10/08 2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE. $65 ROUND TRIP MUST BE PAID IN CASH OR NDCU CHECK WHEN YOU RESERVE A SEAT RIDERS NEEDED TO ROCHESTER, NY FOR OCT. BREAK. LEAVING FRI. OCT. 18 AND RETURNING FRI. OCT. 25 IN TIME FOR PEP RALLY. CALl FRANK AT 15411. NYC RESIDENTS NEED NOT· CAU. THERE WIU BE A GENERAL MEETING OF THE FRENCH CLUB TUESDAY, OCT. 8 AT 8:151N THE NEW ORLEANS ROOM OF LA FORTUNE HAPPY IIIITHDAY IIIAMOT HERE'S TO YOU! HOPE YOU FIND YOUR 8­0AY SUIT IN THE CLOSET. LUV, EILEEN, JUDY, AND DEIRDRE OCTOBERFEST i1 coming ... OCTOSERFEST ia coming ... WATCH FOR MORE DETAILS!!  HEY BPI!! Why did atick lhoee extra brata In your pu,_? ligntod The ~ Heada CAMPY'S PIZZA NOW DELIVERING TO CAMPUS 255-0837 MON THRU THUR 5:00 TO 10:00 FRI SAT 5:00 TO 11:00 NEEDED: Ride from Wlllh. DC 1o NO on Oct. 27. Wll eh•e e~. Cal Kathy at2800. HAPPY BIRTHDAY MARGOT MAC. HECAI We love you more 111an you love IOOibal. Have a Totaly A-Day! Love, Uu, Kathy, Erin, and Kriatin FARLEY GIRLS PAINT THE TOWN:IIow down col-nice ehortcut patti-nice memory ~what quiz patty-boogie down ·ann-chow down carolyn­bababebarbarunn-at.and up lrieh-eat dinner next time rnar-oh yeah happy bir1hdeyjen-70UTTA 10AIN'TBAO, EH GIRLS?! 0 HOLY ST. JUDE, APOSTLE AND MARTYRE. GREAT IN VIRTUE AND RICH IN MIRACLES, NEAR KINSMEN OF JESUS CHRIST, FAITHFUL INTER· CESSOR OF AU WHO INVOKE YOUR SPECIAL PATRONAGE IN TIME OF NEED, TO YOU I HAVE RECOURSE FROM THE DEPTH OF MY HEART AND HUMBLY BEG TO WHO GOO HAS GIVEN SUCH GREAT POWER TO COME TO MY PRESENT URGENT PETITION IN RETURN I PROMISE TO MAKE YOUR NAME KNOWN AND CAUSE YOU TO BE INVOKED. (THREE OUR FATHERS, THREE HAIL MARY'S THREE GLORIA'S). ST. JUDE, PRAY FOR US AND ALL WHO INVOKE YOUR AID. AMEN. L.S. PUBLICATION MUST BE PROMISED. THIS NOVENA HAS NEVER FAILED. SAY IT FOR 9 CON­SECUTIVE DAYS. LEWIS FROZEN YOOURT SHOP OPEN MON. WED. & SUN. 8:30-11:30 HAPPY HAPPY HAPPY SIRTHDAY KATHY!!! OH NO! YOUR"RE LEGAL IN OHIO NOW AND MAYBE EVEN IN ALA8AMA7 HAVE A GOOD ONE! LOVE, MJANDAJ  

The Observer Monday, October 7, 1985-page 9 
Canyooaffordtogamblewith the LSAT, GMAT,GRE.orMCAl? 
Probaoty not. Great graaes 
alone may not be enou!llh to 
tmpress the grad school of 
your choice. 
Scores play a part. And 
thafs how Stanley H. Kaplan 
can help. 
The Kaplan course teaches 
test-taking techniques, reviews 
course su~ects, and increases 
the odds that you'll do the best 
you cando. 
So ifyou've been out of 
school for a while and need a 
refresher, or even if you're fresh 
out of college. do what over 1 
million students have done. 
lake Kaplan. Why take l
a chance with your 
career? 
KAPLAN 
STANlEY H. KAPlAN EDUCATIONAl CENTER lTD 
The worlds leading test prep organization. SOUTH BEND AREA Stanley H. Kaplan Ed. Ctr. 1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 4e837 
(219)'272-4135 
All from Evansville, Ind. 

Three Saint Mary's soccer players share bond 
By ANDREA LaFRENIERE 
Sports Wrltn' 
Saint Mary's varsity soccer players Sarah Creech, Beth Hallinan and Patty Hatfield share more than just the team water bottle at halftime. 
All three of these players, each of whom is an integral part of the Col­lege's soccer program, come from Evansville, Ind., perhaps the strongest soccer area in the state. 
The three not only contribute their enthusiasm to the Belles but also share their soccer skills with their teammates. Having played together on the Evansville Memorial High School girls' soccer team, the players demonstrate their teamwork ability, a skill in which the Belles have recently made marked im­provement. 
The talent these three players dis­play on the field was developed at Memorial, a high school known throughout Indiana for its soccer program. 
Memorial's soccer teams consis­tently have winning seasons and do well in post-season play. Creech, Hallinan and Hatfield, for example, represented Memorial with the ot­her members of their tc;am at the McGuire Tournament, a nationwide girls' soccer competition. Their team won the state. division of the tournament and advanced to the regional competition. 
Such player experience is valuable in developing a strong, successful varsity soccer program at Saint Mary's, according to Head Coach john Akers. 
"What I'm hoping is that these players, who are all underclassmen, will help build the nucleus ofa good varsity team," he said. 
Each ofthe three team members is working toward this goal by con­centrating on her own area of the field. 
Creech, a freshman, currently takes on midfield responsibilities for the Belles but also has seen action at the right wing position. 
"Sarah has moved into center halfback, which is a new position for her, but she's handling it well," Akers said. 
Hallinan, a sophomore transfer from Indiana, is a midfielder and for­ward for the team and is, according to Akers, "a goal-scoring threat up front." 
Hatfield, also a sophomore, tends goal for the Belles and last Tuesday 

Getdown to businessfaster. With the BA-35. 
If there's one thing husiness students have always needed, this is it: an affordahle, husi­ness-oriented calculator. The Texas Instruments 
BA-35, the Student Business 
Analyst. 
Its huilt-in husiness formulas let you perform complicated finance, accounting and statistical functions -the ones that usually require a lot of time calculations, amortizations and halloon payments. 
The BA-35 means you spend less time calculating, and more time learning. One keystroke takes the place of many. 
The calculator is just part of the package. You also get a book that follows most husiness courses: the Business Analyst Guidebook. Business professors helped us write it, 

and a stack of reference hooks, to help you get the most out like present and future value of calculator and classroom. 
© 1985 Tl 
A powerful combination. 
Think business. With the BA-3 5 Student Jj;J. Business Analyst. ~ 
TEXAS 
INSTRUMENTS 
Creating useful products and services for you. 

·had her first shutout against the 
Notre Dame Women's Soccer Club. 
AU three players believe the 
Belles have a lot ofdesire and poten­
tial. 

"Every game we're improving." 
said Creech. "At the start of the 
season we really didn't play as a 
team. Now we're getting more con­
fidence, and we're starting to play 
better." 

Hallinan had similar thoughts 
regarding the soccer team. 
"I think we've been improving 
with pretty much each game," she 
said. "We're working toward 
(becoming) more ofa team that sup· 
ports each other," she said. 
Hatfield said she believes that the 
Belles' 1-6 record in itself is not an 
accurate indication of the team's 
abilities. 

"Our record may not be that great 
so far," she said, "but we're still a 
new team. There's a lot of us who 
haven't played together before. 
We're still getting used to the dif­
ferent styles of play. What's impor­
tant is that we're improving. and 
we're making an eflon." 
In spite of the fact that aU three 
players excel at soccer, each ofthem 
attend Saint Mary's for reasons other 
than just the College's varsity soccer 
program. 

Creech, major, 
decided to 

"I came mostly for academics," she said, "but the soccer program here also had a little bit to do with my decision. I wanted to play soccer in college, and Saint Mary's offered me that opponunity." 
Hallinan, a marketing major, trans· ferred from IU because she preferred the College's atmosphere and academic programs. 
"I hadn't planned on transferring until I came to visit and sat in on a class," Hallinan said. "At IU our classes were so large, we weren't allowed to ask any questions. I came here and was actually introduced to the students before the class began. 
"I think there's more opportunity at Saint Mary's, since it's a smaller school. There are a lot of programs and more individual attention is available." 
Hatfield, a business major, expressed similar reasons for her decision to attend Saint Mary's. 
"I like the atmosphere of a small college," Hatfield said. "I chose Saint Mary's for its academics, and I was glad there was a soccer program here." 
Hatfield, the only one of the three who played on the Saint Mary's soc­cer club team before the spon went varsity, said she believes that the College's decision to suppon a var­sity soccer team was a good one. 
"The change is better. We can go funher, and we can play better teams," she said. 
EVROP£.­
Fall-Winter 
Call for Lowest Rate and Assistance 
Seven Seas Travel 

525 N •. Miclaigan 232-7995 
J.M.S. PLAZA 
4609 Grape Road Mishawaka 

oo ~~ 
BE A GHOST THIS HALLOWEEN! 
Call about our Halloween spedal 277-7026 
2 

JA12. 
(Jam Session) 
• r' n I • 
Kaleidscope 
Euery Monday 7-11 pm Americana Hotel 6th floor $2.50-$2.00Students 
r• .,• 

Irish cross-country team stumbles to 11th-place finish at ND Invite 
By PETE GEGEN 
sporu Writer 
"We didn't run well." 
"It's unexplainable." 
"It just didn't cUck." 

These are just a few of the reac­tions of Notre Dame cross-country team members to the performance ofthe Irish at the Notre Dame Invita· tional Friday afternoon. 
1be Irish, who entered the race as the defending champion, stumbled to 11th place in soggy conditions. Meanwhlle, Edinborough (Pa.)State College captured this year's race. 
Jim Tyler was the strongest performer for the Irish, finishing in lOth place with a time of 24:46. Whlle saying he felt good about his performance, Tyler was uncertain as to why the team did not run well. 
"I really don't know what hap­pened," he said. "I was baflled I guess we really weren't mentally prepared for the race." 
John Magill was the ~cond Irish runner to cross the finish Une, placing 37th, whlle Ron Markezlch came in next at 48th. Tom Warth followed Markezlch, placing an un­usually high 59th with a time of 25:34. 
The last runner to cross the Une for Notre Dame was Tim Diamond, who was at a loss to explain his 72nd-place effon. 
"I didn't run nearly as well as I could have for some reason," said Diamond. "I can do a lot better." 
Irish head coach Joe Plane noted that Notre Dame had not run as poorly in the past few years. He was careful not to overreact to the situa· tion, though. 
"We are not goingtopanic," Plane said "We are going to continue to do the same things which led us to success last year." 
MaiiHtdmilarly'lftllts to continue the season without worrying about this race. 
"It's one bad race," said Magill. "We didn't run as a group and do the things th,. made us win in the past. We've got to get It back together and look tothe nc:JU. race." 
Running as a group is one thing the Irish definitely did not do. A year ago, 13 seconds was all that separated the first and fifth men for Notre Dame. This year, that dif­ference was 64 seconds. 
Another factor was the absence of Mike Collins and Dan Garrett for the second meet In a row. Collins is ex­pected back for the next meet on Oct. 18, and Garrett should stan training again today. 
"Missing those two has hun us," noted Plane. "The other runners may have been distracted wonder­Ing ifthey were going to run." 
The Irish will have two weeks to prepare for the Indiana Intercol­legiate meet to be held on Oct. 18 at Indiana University in Bloomington. 

In town for Sportsmed lOK 
Shorter says Americans need fitness 
11y CHRIS STARKEY 
Spom Wrlm-
Despite the running boom of the last 15 years, the average American could still work on his physical fit­ness, according to distance runner Frank Shoner. 
Shoner, In South Bend for yester­day's Sportsmed 1OK race, was the 1972 Olympic gold medal winner in the marathon and the silver medalist In the 1976 Games in the same event. He was Track and Field magazine's 'Marathoner of the Decade' for the 197011, and also won the Sullivan Award In 1972 as America's best amatuer athlete in anyspon. 
Holder of a degree In psychology from Yale and a law degree from Florida,Shoner Is still a running and fitness enthusiast at age 38. His in­fluence Is commonly cited as one of 
Mistakes 
continued/rom page 12 
•After Pinkett's two-yard touch­down run gave Notre Dame a third quaner lead, the Irish could have taken a 1 7-1 0 lead with a successful two-point conversion. But a wide­openJoel Williams dropped a Beuer­lein pass In the end zone and the Irish lead was still five points. 
.On a crucial founh-and-five play with 2:53 left In the game, the Irish were forced to call a timeout when they couldn't get their Per~nnel situation straightened qut ~n time. Beuerlein was trying• td get a sub­stitute on the field for ~ exhausted Stams, but the Irish couldn't work out the problem.in time and had to spend a timeout to avoid a delay of game penalty. N. things turned out, It didn't matter because the Irish were whistled for offsides when play the major factors for the Increasing brought running more into the popularity of health-related ac. pubUc's eye. tivities since 1970. Shoner believes this change is for 
The reason for this popularity, the better. Shoner beUeves, is the pubUc's "I think more and more people realization of the beqefits which just began to realize the benefits could be derived from exercise and they could realize through running," the difference these benefits could he says. "Stress reduction, disease 
make in one's Ute. resistance and just a general Im­
"Medical research was staning to provement in your Ute are only a few produce results about what effects ofthe advantages, whether it's swim­being healthy and exercising did ming, aerobics, biking or running." have on you," Shoner says. "Until As far as initiating some son ofex­this point, no one had really quan­ercise program, Shoner names tified fitness." consistency and moderation as key 
Shoner cited an investigation factors In an individual's success. called the Framingham study as em­"It's not so much that it has to pirical evidence that running, consume your Ute," he says. "It's among other activities, actually did more that over a period ofyears you improve a person's health sig­develop some son of consistency. 
nificantly. He added that the atten­Nutrition Is lmponant, too, of tion the media placed on the 1972 course, but I don't ascribe to any Olympic marathon was a factor, as particular diet. It's mostly what both that attention and the study you're willing to put into it." 
Shoner also stresses the impor­resumed and opted to punt on tance of not getting discouraged ifa founh-and-1 0. running program does not seem to 
"Those kinds ofmistakes will hap­pay offimmediately. pen once In a while in a game," said "Pan ofthe unpleasantness ofrun­Beuerleln. "But whenever we need a ning has to do with the actual getting big play it seems to come up." into shape," he says. "It takes about 
The Irish have an off-week next two months of running before you Saturday, which will give them time are really into condition, at which to regroup before they meet Army at point you'll find out whether It's for home on Oct. 19. That game is the you. If you keep with It, you'll get first of four consecutive home results." games for Notre Dame. Shoner is Uving proofofthat. 
"This is no time to sit back and cry about It," said Pinkett. "We've got seven games left. There's a lot of 

Monday, October 7, 1985-page 10 

The Notre Dame cross-country team entered Friday's Notre Dame Invitational as the defending champions, but the Irish fell to an 11thplacefinish. Pete Gegan details the action at left. 

L E C T U R E SElliES U N C H l N A 
"1" H E S I G N I F I C A N C E u ~· "1" II E OC"l"OUEl~ ll E V U L U "1" I U N 
NA'l'ION U U I L IJ I N G l'E"l"EH MUUDlC, UEPT. Ok• l.iOVEllNMENT 
6&30 P.M. OC'l"OUER 7, 1985 
IN"l"EHNl\TtONAL STUUENT LUUNGB (OFF 'l"IIE BALLHOUM Uli'" LA k·un"l"UNE) 


A L L ARE W E L C 0 M El 
Sponsored Uy& Notre Uamo ~·oreiyn Stully Proyromo, ·rianj in, China 

: • _IbeDbsenter~ : • 
YOU CAN HANDLE 
: The independent student newspaper serving : WITH • Notre Dome and Saint Mary's is accepting • 
RUSSIAN COMEDIAN YAKOV
• applications for the following position: •
• • SMIRNOFF : Assistant Sports Editor : Friday, October 11 
• • 8:00pm• • Stepan Center 
• Questions about this position should be directed • 
-Tickets on Sale at 
• to Jeff Blumb at the Observer office. Personal 1 • 
pride on this team, and I'm still plan­ning on going to a bowl. But we've STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD got to worry about Army first. 
"I set some high goals for this PRESENTS season, and I'm not ready to give up on them. And I don't think anyone on this team is planningon giving up either." 
But with a 1-3 record and one of the nation's toughest schedules, the time for the Irish to get it together is 

ALL THE SMIRNOFF 
now. 

La Fortune Record Sale 
: statements and resumes ore due Wednesday. : 
Ticket Price $3.00 
• October 9, at 5 p.m • 
P------------------------------------------------------------------------­
~4(Jt~C3L~-------------------------------------------M•o•n·d-ay_._o_c_t_o.be_r_7_,_1_9_B_s_-.P.ag_e
__ll 
-

Bloom 
yC}(f~ He/IKP, IY car<Se, 
1lllf1ottveR M:IMI.t. ...uo.t:S IS I'K6PttnN& HALI£Y'5 CO/IIe'T Wit/.. 
9TKIK! ~ emmt.. 
I 
Zeto 
1N€K!'5 NUTH!N& WG" CI1N
'If)() 
/70.JE5f/ 
I
I 


ACROSS 1 Tow 5 Gordie or 
Elias 9 Detect 13 City of nven hills 14 HST birth· 
place 15 Biblical weed 16 Fruit drinks 17 Muse of poetry 16 Region 19 Deteriorated 
badly 22 Failure 23 Godolwar 24 Mel of base· 
ball 27 Assist 30 Tlmezone 
letters 31 Jep. drama 32 House peats 36 At hand 38 Fatuous 40 Very selfish 
person 43 Part of a 
dovetail Joint «Facility 45 Existed 46 Use a shuttle 47 Goof 49 Depot: abbr. 51 High note 52 "-Gorlot" 54 Leash 59 Out of favor 63 Solitary 65 Slant 66 Samoan port 67 Over 68 Climb 69 Cherished 70 Saucy 71 Gr. goddess 72 Desires 
DOWN 1 Southam accent 
2 Roping 
exhibition 3 Prayer endings 4 Beau-S Deer 

C>11185 Tribune Media Services. inc. 10/7/85 
-
6 Slouan 

M 0 A 8 P A l M A S C 0 T
7 Salad 
A l M A A l A I N E H R U 
Ingredient 
S 
E E K 
S 0 
I 
l 
D R E A M 
8 Wears away 9 Type of party 10 Rectory 
-D E E D 
l A P S E D 11 Mlneralstuff 
SEPALS Bt-fANIE­12 Oolong 
TWill CALM ECOL 14 Actor Genn 
l 
E N A C A l l A C A M E 
20 Refrain 
ORES fMtEA PEKAN
syllable 
1-AKENES WOOERS
21 Rome's port 
IMPACT HALF­
25 Photo devel· 
oper'sald 26 "Over .......... I A l l T 0 0 R E l A R I A 26 Motel iJEESE ANNE KANT 29 Restraining 
S S E S H E A T E l S A 
factor 
10/7/85
32 Dull finish 33 Utopian 48 Go over old 58 Boscs 34 Receptacle stuff 60 Eft 35 Sell 50 Residue 61 Largepot 37 Expression 53 Mystery 62 Command to 
of triumph writers' award a horse 
39 Wlnddlr. 55 Sycophant 63 Once around 41 Clumsy 58 Money of India the track 42 Encountered 57 Oriental 64 Single 

Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

Kevin Walsh 

"Sidney! I made a mistake! ... Deposit the $50 check Into savings, and put the $500 In cash Into checking!" 
Campus 
•12:00 
P.M. · l..ecture, "Privatization of Prisons", Dr. Jerome E. Miller, National Center on Institutions and Motives, Law School Lounge, Sponsored by The Thomas White Center on Law and Government -6:00 P.M. • Presentation, Conoco, Inc., Room 122 Hayes Healy, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services, For Management, Marketing, Finance Seniors, MBA's with Finance or Management Concentrations scheduled to interview with Conoco, Inc. -6:30 P.M. -Academic, Significance of Oc­tober Revolution in China, Dr. Peter Moody, University of Notre Dame, International Stu· dent Lounge · LaFortune Student Center, Sponsored by Notre Dame Foreign Study Programs, Tianjin China 

•7:00 
P.M.· Presentation and Reception, Peat, Marwick, Mitchell and Company, Senior Alumni Club, Sponsored by Career and Place· ment Services, For Scheduled Accountancy Seniors and MBA's with Accountancy con· centratlon 



•7:00 
P.M. · Meedna, Open Alcoholics Anonymous Meeting, Terry A., Renaissance Center, Elkhart General Hospital, Dillon Chapel, Sponsored by Psychological Services 

•7:00 
P.M. -MeednJ, Christo Rey Prayer Group, Center for Social Concerns Ubrary 

•7:00 
P.M. and 9:30 P.M. · MOYie, "Richard III'' , Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Notre Dame Shakespeare Club 

•7:30 
P.M.· Concert, Medieval Harp Concen, Theresa Schroc:der-Sheker, Room I00, Center for Continuing Education at Notre Dame, Sponsored by Departments of English, His­tory, Medieval Institute, Music, and the Dean ofArts and Letters 

•7:30 
P.M. -Exlwn l..ecture Series, "The Changing American Family", Graham B. Spanier, University of New York at Stonybrook, Ubrary Lounge, Sponsored by Departments ofSociology and Psychology 

•10:00 
P.M.. Prayer For World Peace, Grotto, Sponsored by University Campus Min· istry and Network for Justice 


Dinner Menus 
Notte Dame Salisbury Steak with Gravy Pork Tenderloin Sauteed Over Noodles Pasta Primavera Hot DoS'I with Coney Sauce 
TV Tonight 
8:30P.M.  n  Newlwt  
46  Calvary Temple  
9:00P.M.  22  Cqney and Lacey  
~  Quest  For  Killers:  "The  l..asl  
Wild VIrus"  
46  le8eaAIIve  
!O:OOP.M.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  :Z:Z Eyewltneaa News  
~  No Second Chances  

46 Church Growth lnternadonal 10:30P.M. 16 Tonight Show 


Saint Mary's Pot Roast Turkey Pot Pie Ratatouille Crepes Grilled Uver with Grilled Onions 
ll:OOP.M. 
lldOP.M. 
12:30A.M. I !GO A.M. :Z!OOA.M. 
22 Rcmin&ton Steel~ 
46 Upu and Uvely 
28 NC"WIIW"&teh:Z8 
46 PUm Du Jour: "Nicholas Nick­elby'' 46 Pralle lhe Lord 16 D.-rid Letterman Show 28 ABC News Nipnllne 16 Allin the Family 22 Nltfltwalch 46 Independent Network News 
HAVE YOU EXPERIENCED A LOSS RECENTLY? 
GRIEF AND LOSS GROUP 

BEGINNING Tuesday Oct. 8 3:30-5:00 
Will meet for 6 consequtlve Tuesdays 
--239-7336­

PLEASE contact Linda Monroe at Counseling & Psyche Service Center 
r 
Monday, October 7, 1985-page 12
S~orts 
Air Force blocks kick, sends Irish to third defeat 
Notre Dame plagued by same old mistakes 
By I..ARRY BURKE An outstanding effort by Irish tail­slipped and collided with Beuerlein Asslstllnt Sports Editor back Allen Pinkett went to waste, as forced the Irish to settle for a field the Irish fell to 1-3 on the season, goal. 
COLORADO SPRINGS -·For most their worst start since 1962. Pinkett •Early in the second quarter, the of Saturday afternoon, it appeared had his best game ofthe season, ram­Irish had a first down at the Air Force that Notre Dame was going to be bling for 142 yards <\0 31 carries. 14, but an incomplete pass and two 
able to overcome its mistakes and The Falcons, who were paced by rushes resulted in a loss ofone yard score a victory over the Air Force Maki's impressive effort on defense -and forced Notre Dame to settle for Academy for the first time since 30 total tackles, 19 of those solo -Carney's 33-yard field goal. 1981. All day Ions, the Falcons had raised their season mark to 5-0. •Later in the same quarter, Beuer­been waiting patiently for an lein was intercepted by cornerback
Weiss had a good all-around game

opening to come, but the Irish had Dwan Wilson at the Air Force four­
for Air Force, leading the team in

managed to hold them off. yard line to kill a potential scoring
rushing with 107 yards on 1 7 carries
But with five minutes to play, the opportunity.
and completing 11-of-20 passes for

opening came, and Air Force's Terry •Trailing 1 0-9 in the final seconds Maki burst through it to block John 142 yards. of the first half, the Irish were 
Ironically, it was the second time

Carney's 37-yard field goal attempt. driving for a go-ahead field goal.
in three years that a blocked field

Had Carney's kick gone through the Beuerlein completed three con­
goal gave the Falcons a win over

uprights, Notre Dame would have secutive passes to set up a first down 
Notre Dame. In 1983, Air Force's 
at the Air Force 41-yard line. With

taken an 18-13 lead in the game. 
Chris Funk slammed Mike 
no time outs left, the coaches 
Johnston's potential game-winning
"I thought the snap, hold and kick elected to have Carney try a 59-yard
kick back to the turf as the final

went off like clockwork," said Car­field goal at that point, even though
seconds ticked away to preserve a

ney, "but there must have been a there were 18 seconds remaining ­23-22 Air Force victory.
. breakdown somewhere. It felt good, plenty of time to try a sideline pass but it may have come offlow." to set up a shorter kick. Both Carney
"Sure I thought back to that when The ball went straight up into the and Beuerlein said they expected

they blocked the kick t~y," said air and came down in the hands of the offense to try one more play, but
Beuerlein, who completed 20-of-36 

Falcon defensive back A.J Scott, instead the field goal unit was sent
passes for 223 yards. "But it never 

who raced 77 yards into the end out, and a hurried Carney was short
should have come down to that play. zone for the go-ahead score. Air We should have put the game away on the attempt. Force quarterback Bart Weiss 
by then, but we kept hurting our­
see MISTAKES, page 10

cruised around the right side and 
selves." into the end zone on the ensuing 
That statement describes the two-point conve~ion attempt to situation very well, a Falcon
as give the Falcons their final margin of 
Tennis team captures .Irish Invite 
Stadium-record crowd of 5.2,153 

victory at 21-15. 
and a national television audience will The Irish couldn't
"You can't lose one any tougher attest. ex­
ecute when it counted, and it even­

despite problems with the weather 
than that," said Irish coach Gerry tually came back to haunt them.
Faust, managing a smile. "I thought 
Three plays before the bloclted

the defense played great against the ByMARTY STRASEN dividual matches were cancelled in While the weather improved yes­
field goal, the Irish had a ftnt-and­wishbone, and the offense moved Sports Jl'rltw order to finish play, which lasted terday and moved the matches backgoal just outside the Falcons' two­

the ball right down the field against a from 9 a.m. until past 8:30 in the out to the Courtney Tennis Center,
yard line. But Pinkett was tripped up

~ough defense. You can't ask players Only the weather could have evening. the opposition provided more ofthe
for a one-yard loss on the first play, 

to play better than our kids did Notre Dame downed Ferris State, 
stopped the Notre Dame women's same for the Irish. The top-seededand a mix-up between Beuerleinandtoday. You have to feel for these tennis team from winning the Irish 7-0, in the morning opener and Panther, Mary Colligan and lzzythe running backs on a sweep
kids." Invitational tournament this topped Cincinnati, 6-1, later in the O'Brien dumped their opponents by
resulted in a six-yard loss on theThe Irish, in fact, did not play that weekend. Thanks in part to the Ath: day. The onlyloss for the Irish was in identical 6-0, 6-1 scores, whilenext play. Beuerlcin was collaredbadly. But as has been the case so of­letic and Convocation Qnter, a doubles match, where the No. I JoAnne Biafore and Tammy Schmidtand flagged for intentional ground­ten this season, penalties, mental er­however, the Irish breezed put team of Susie Panther and Michelle also were straight-set winners. Mic­ing on third down, which pushed

rors and a general lack ofexecution their competition and captured the Dasso was upset, 1-6, 7-5, 7-5, by helle Dasso, coming off a recent in­
the Irish back to the 20 and set the

ultimately did them in. 
six-team event. Chris Halbauer and Pam Whitehead jury, squeaked by Laura Janus, 6-4, stage for Maid's heroics. 
Notre Dame completed its ofthe Bearcats. 6-7 (4-7), 6-4, in the other singles"Breakdowns are becoming too But that frustrating series was just weekend domination yesterday, match.
much of a habit for us," said Irish one episode in a day where Notre Notre Dame coach Michele
crushing Marquette, 9-0, in the

quarterbackSteve Beuerlcin. "When Dame was guilty ofbeatil)g itself too Gelfman expressed disappointment "Michelle wasn't feeling well and
tournament final. The Irish women

we had the chances to score, we often. with the lack of competition over played lethargically in her singles
looked impressive against their

didn't do it. We had a couple of op­•The Irish had a chance to get out the weekend. match," said Gelfman. "She took
weaker competition, dropping only

portunities inside the 1 0-yard line on top early when Robert Banks pace off her game, but pulled it out
two sets in the entire match. "It's difficult to play againstand we didn't put the ball into the recovered a Weiss fumble on the Fal­back strong in doubles end zone. cons' first play from scrimmage. Things were not looking so good weaker teams and keep-up your con­and came (teaming with Panther in a 6-0, 6-1 on Saturday, though. 1bat's not to centration," said Gelfman. "Our in­"Air Force is the kind of team that Pinkett picked up 11 yards to give victory). 1bat just shows what shesay the Irish were challenged. It was tensity level definitely dropped.
waits for an opportunity and then the Irish had a first-and-goal on the 
can do. I was extremely pleased with

heavy rain that slowed action, for­Instead of closing out points, we
takes advantage of it, and they did five, but an offsides penalty and a that today." mixup where fullback Frank Stams see TENNIS, pqe 8
cing play onto the trio of courts were often content to justplay them inside the ACC. A number of in-out and hit with them." 
Field hockey team wins two games 
ByKENT WELDON Just minutes into the game, with two goals, while DiGiacomo Sports Writer Corinne DiGiacomo scored the first also scored a goal and had two as­of her two goals on the day. sists. Christina Weinmann had the 
Notre Dame field hockey coach DIGiacomo later assisted on Beth first goal of the game and Mary Jill Lindenfeld could only be happy Bisignano's goal 20 minutes into the Struckoff contributed one goal and after the performance of her team first period. one assist. over the weekend. The Irish upped Undenfeld noted the outstanding "Molly McCabe had a great game. their record to 7-4-1 by beating Cal­performances of DiGiacomo and Other than her goal and two assists, vin College on Friday, then topping Bisignano, who had an assist on one she had some really good crosses 
Albion College yesterday. of DIGiacomo's goals. and feeds," Undenfeld said. 
Friday's game was shortened by The Irish then returned to Cartier Albion's only goal was scored on the adverse weather conditions. It Field yesterday to trounce Albion, 6-Irish backup goalie Mary Jean was raining all day, but cleared up 1. Beetel. Regular Patti Gallagher just in time for the two teams to take "I was very pleased with the fact played a solid first halfin the net and the field. that we scored off the corners be­Undenfeld decided to give Beetel a 
Midway through the second half, cause that Is one thing we worked chance to get some game ex­though, the game was stopped be­hard on in practice," said Lindenfeld perience in the second period. cause of the rain and cold. Calvin's after beating Albion. "One of our 
"Mary Jean played a great half,"

coach, along with the officials, goals was to take advantage ofthem. 
said the Irish coach. "She came intodecided that enough of the contest We are a more highly skilled team the game cold and let the goal in, buthad been completed, so the game than Albion, and expected to win as she redeemed herself by saving a was ruled official and the Irish long as we played well." 

penalty stroke later into the game."

walked away victorious, 3-0. Notre Dame did take advantage of 
The Irish were a better team and the corners, scoring two of its six The Irish finished their three­they showed it with their aggressive goals from that spot. game homestand strongly and now style of play, keeping Calvin on the Once again, the Irish offense came will be on the road until their last defensive for most of the game. The out strong, firing 27 shots on the Al­home game on Oct. 30. Next up for shots on goal proved this as Notre bion goal, while only allowing six. Notre Dame are two Division Dame posted 26, while Calvin could The scoring breakdown saw schools, Central Michigan and Eas­manage only five. Melissa Sommer have a good outing tern Michigan. 





