Icy Sidewalks -page 3 
VOL XIX, NO. 100 the independent -,wdent ne\\-,paper -,ening notn dame and -,aint mary·., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1985 
With the return ofsunlight to the Notre Dame campus, students halle once again gone to great lengths to proclaim their public opinion, now that it can be seen by everyone. At left is the Pi Iota Gammafraternity of Keenan Hal/3-North, while residents of Surin countdown the days until Zippy's wedding day. Pangborn also got emphaticallyintothe act, with a sign that declared, "We're Pangborn, damn it." 
Yarbrough convicted of firing at FBI agents 
Associated Press 
BOISE, Idaho -Avowed white supremacist Gary Lee Yarbrough, who admitted he was a "frontline Aryan warrior," was convicted yes­terday of assault for firing a gun at three FBI agents. 
The U.S. District Court jury deliberated about five hours before returning the guilty verdict. 
Yarbrough had testified he never intended to harm the agents when he fired a .45-caliber handgun in their direction on Oct. 18 and he said he was trying to "get their atten­tion" because the men failed to ac­knowledge his shouts. 
He was the last witness before the jury began deliberations. The jurors were urged by Yarbrough's attorney to ignore the defendant's character and views and decide only whether an assault took place. 
"You're not trying to determine if he's a good guy or a bad guy," defen.se· attorney James Kaufman said. 
FBI agent Michael Johnston tes­tified Wednesday that Yarbrough shot directly at the officers, who were dressed in jeans and flannel shirts and were riding in a borrowed 
U.S. Forest Service pickup truck on Yarbrough's driveway. 
Yarbrough, who has been linked to the june 18, 1984, slaying of Den­ver talk show host Alan Berg, also testified he didn't know the three men were FBI agents. 
"I figured they couldn't read," said Yarbrough, explaining the truck had to pass at least three "no trespass­ing" signs. 
Yarbrough said he ran to a door and "yelled at them as loud as I could" trying to get them to stop. The pickup truck drove over a log Yarbrough had put across his driveway past the house, he said. 
After the truck left Yarbrough's property and turned onto a road, Yarbrough said he tried to catch up to the pickup by cutting through the wooded area behind his home. He said he fired a .45-caliber semi­automatic handgun while aiming at least 1 5 feet over the pickup truck "to get their attention." 
He was standing about 35 to 40 yards away from the pickup truck, agents said. No one was injured. 
Yarbrough, who said he practices shooting targets · at least once a week, testified t.hat he can "easily" hit a one-foot diameter target with a .45-caliber automatic from 50 yards away four out offive times. 
Eldon Cutler, a member of the white supremacist Church of Jesus Christ Christian, or Aryan Nations, said he had been target shooting with Yarbrough and said a pickup truck moving at 1 5-20 mph would have been "almost like a standing target." 
Yarbrough said he left the Ayran Nations several years ago and was renting the rural Sanpoint home un­der an assumed name because he didn't want people to know of his past affiliation with the neo-Nazi Whidbey Island, Wash., house fire group. He also said he served a after a stand-off with authorities. prison sentence in Arizona tur bur­

Agents tried to arrest Yarbroughglary and grand theft. 
the day the shots were fired, but 
Yarbrough, apprehended Nov. 24 could not find him when they in Portland, has been linked to returned with an arrest warrant and Robert Mathews, the founder of an search warrant. Aryan Nati~ns splinter group called 
However, the weapon used to killThe Order. 
talk show host Berg was found in Mathews died in December in a Yarbrough's home. 

J-Board bars public from next assembly 
ByMARKS. PANKOWSKI 
NewsStaff 
The March 12 Judicial Council meeting will be closed to students and The Observer, Judicial Coordin­ator Tim McDowell announced at last night's council meeting. 
According to McDowell, the Judi­cial Council will discuss how hall rectors are handling the judicial functions of their respective halls. He feels ifboth outside students and The Observer are excluded from the meeting, then hall commissioners I will be able to discuss the issues in­volved freely. 1 
"1 don't want (the hall commis­
1
sioners) afraid of telling the truth. I 
j
want honest things coming up," he said. "I don't have anything against The Observer. but I don't want (the 
~ 
hall commissioners)worrying about being misquoted." 
McDowell says hall rectors may 1 not be informing students accused ofhall offenses ofall of their rights. 
"If you commit a hall offense, 
lyou're supposed to have a choice be­
i
tween having your case heard by your hall's judicial board or your rector unless it is a very sensitive case. I'm not sure if the rectors are telling students that they have a choice," McDowell said. 
McDowell also plans to discuss how the hall judicial boards are operating. According to McDowell, "We have to find out how the judi­cial boards are performing their role as working judicial units of the Uni­versity. The only way to find out if the judicial boards are working ef­fectively is to find out what's actu­ally happening." 
Also brought up at last night's meeting was the apparent apathy of some hall commissioners to their re­sponsibilities as commissioners. 
"There seemed to be a lot of 
apathy this year," McDowell said to 
the council members. "You seem 
see BOARD, page 5 

ND tax-help program continues 
ByCATIIYANN REYNOlDS 
StaffReporter 
The Notre Dame tax assistance program will again prepare income tax forms for members ofthe South Bend community this spring after preparing 1,837 single-family returns last year. 
Refunds from forms prepared last year netted more than $244,000 in refunds, according to Liz Carroll, public relations director of the program for the past two years. 
The program, in its 14th year, is run by senior ac­counting majors at Notre Dame. It has gained more support from accounting alumni in recent years, said Ken Milani, faculty coordinator. 
The Notre Dame program has its own training program and record keeping, but the Internal Reve­nue Service provides the forms and the Volunteer Income Tax Accountants safeguards the legal aspects. 
Some accountants in the program are alumni con­tilling to serve the South Bend residents filing tax returns. 
A certified public accountant and alumnus from Price Waterhouse in Chicago, Dave O'Brien, has come back to South Bend to volunteer for the pro­gram. 
When asked about legal problems and responsi­bilities, Milani said the IRS may call the program about a person's file, but the program is protected by VITA, and not legally responsible. 
While following "normal procedure," said Milani, the IRS can call the customer for details and lets the volunteer program know when the problem is re­solved. 
Besides South Bend residents, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's workers/groundskeepers, housekeepers, and kitchen help have in recent years been assisted by student and CPA volunteers. 
Carroll said Notre Dame's tax program offers assis­tance at " 1 0 different locations in South Bend set up in public buildings, like church halls, and libraries so that service is available at least three hours a week at various shifts." 
"Two groups of students volunteer at shut-ins," said Carroll, "when people can't get to a center." 
Notre Dame's volunteers are available at the Cen­ter for Social Concerns from 2:30 to 5 p.m. on Wed­nesdays, or by phone at 239-5296. 

The Observer Friday, February 22, 1985 -page 2 



In Brief 
Eleven states reported widespread influenza out· breaks last week. and more than 900 people died of flu or pneumonia, the national Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta said yesterday. The CDC said flu was widespread in Florida, Hawaii, Ne­braska, New Hampshire, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, South Dakota, Texas, Virginia and the District ofCo­lumbia. Another I 7 states reported smaller outbreaks, for the week ending Feb. 16, the CDC said yesterday in its weekly report. This season's predominant influenza strain is what researchers call A· H3Nl, or the Philippines flu, which typically strikes young and old alike. Forty-four states have reported it this fall and winter. ·lAP 
Of Interest 
johnnycan read, but he's just a bit behind the rest of the class and could use some individual attention to help him catch up or maybe he is doing fine but has the potential to do even better. Saint Mary's College department ofeducation has opened a reading center for children in grades one through eight who don't have se­vere learning problems, but need or would like to improve their reading skills. The center, directed by Saint Mary's Assistant Profes­sor Mary Ann Traxler, is open from 4 to 5:30p.m., Monday through Thursday. Saint Mary's students majoring in elementary education provide the creative writing and literature instruction, and educa­tion majors with reading minors instruct in reading. The Observer 
The Sophomore Literary Festival opens 
Sunday evening with a reading by novelist and short-story writer Hortense Calisher in the Memorial Library Auditorium at 8. She will be reading from her newest collection "Saratoga, Hot" that is sched· uled to be released this spring. Early seating is advised. · The Observer. 
A square dance sponsored by the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's council for the retarded will be held tonight from 7:30 to 10 at Logan Center. Volunteers are needed to help with the event. Logan Center is also starting a new tradition Saturday with Carnival Rec, a small carnival in the Logan Center gym for the benefit of retarded children in the South Bend community. For further infor· mation contact Gus Kelly at 28.3·1 196. -The Observer 
Notre Dame's Helen Kellogg Institute 
for International Studies will hold a workshop titled "Feminist The­ory, State Policy and Rural Women in Latin America" today and to· morrow. The workshop has been organized by Maria de los Angeles Crummet, Carmen Diana Deere, and Beatriz Schmukler, all fellows ofthe Kellogg Institute, whose research, according to Institute Asso· ciate Director Alexander Wilde, "has used the dimension ofgender to throw imporant new light on the broader issues ofLatin American development." -The Observer 
Saint Mary's galleries will present a show of etchings, lithographs and watercolors by New York City artist Linda Plotkin, from today until March 14 in Hammes Gallery, Moreau Hall, on the Saint Mary's campus. The exhibit will open with a public reception, from 7 until9 p.m. tonight. Plotkin, who taught printmak· ing at Pennsylvania State University from 1970·77 and will be the artist-in-residence at Saint Mary's Sept. 8-21, has exhibited interna· tionally. A native of Milwaukee, Plotkin graduated from the Univer­sity of Wisconsin and received her MFA degree from Pratt Institute in Brooklyn. Saint Mary's College gallery hours are Monday 9 a.m. to 3 p.m.; Tuesday through Friday 9 a.m. to 12 noon and 1 to 3 p.m.; and Sunday I to 3 p.m. · The Observer 

Weather 
Think Spring! There is a 70 percent chance of thunderstorms today with a high in the upper 40s. A good chance of rain tonight with lows in the mid 40s. A 50 percent chance of rain tomorrow, with a high near SO.· lAP 


The Observer 

The Observer (liSPS S99 2·-1000) is published Monday through Friday and on home f<x>tball Saturdays. except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is published by tht· students of the llniversity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purt·ha:;cd for HO per year ( 120 per se· 
mester) by writing The Observer, P.O !lox Q. Notre Dame. Indiana •\6SS6. 
The Observer is a memhcr of The A.!lsoclated Pre1111. All reproduction rights are reserved 
Today's issue was produced by: 
Design Editor................ Maureen Murphy Design Assistant ........... Matt Gracianette Layout Staff..................... Marie I Labrador 
Tom Hall Typesetters ................. Cathyann Reynolds 
Vic Sciulli News Editor.......................... Marc Ramirez Copy Editor............................. Jane Kravcik Sports Copy Editor...................... Phil Wolf VIewpoint Copy Editor ..... John MenneII VIewpoint Layout............... John Mennell Features Copy Editor ......... John MenneII Features Layout .................. Andi Schnuck ND Day Editor........................ Doug Hasler SMC Day Editor .......................... Ed No lam Ad IJesiRn ........................... John O'Connor 
Mary Carol Creadon Photographer ........................... Carol Gales 
. 



Getting there is half the fun if you can figure out the password 
Ever wonder why the grass is so green around the guardhouses at Notre Dame? Perhaps it has something to do with the bull spread around there by students trying to drive on campus. 
It seems getting past the gate guard truly has become the great Domer drivers' pastime. 
In terms of size, the battle is a mismatch. More than 1,000 registered cars form the backbone of the assault force, armed to the teeth with the latest excuses, the most modern pleas. And on the defense are two mere defenders of the pedestrian campus, veritable Custers in a sea a four-wheeled Indians. 
But all the Fords, Chevys and Hondas are no match for security's trump card: the little switch that raises the gate. If the gate isn't raised, even the most prestigious automobile can go down in flaming defeat, having to back up in embarrassing retreat. 

Officers with Notre Dame security take this immense responsibility in stride · all in a day's work sort ofstuff. But they know that every car they don't let on is one more 
car they won't have to tow burgh. out of a fire lane or out of •"I want to go to church." 
some rector's parking spot · ticketing it first, of course. Who can blame them? Few things provoke as heated an outcry as a pilfered parking space. 
"It would be nice if we could let a kid in on his honor, but it's sad we can't do it that way. That's why we have to have a lot of rules," says William Krill, a shift commander and a 13-year veteran with the depart· ment. 
"We do bend the rules a lot with that pass, and under certain circumstances we try to help students out as much as we can," says Krill. 
"Yeah," you're saying to yourself. These guys might act like Boy Scouts in the office, but get one ofthem in a gate house and he becomes a modern-day troll. Or so it seems. 
Officers admit the chances ofgetting a car on campus vary with the person on duty, how many cars are already on, the time of day and probably what side of the bed the officer got out of. 
But examine for a moment what these dedicated men and women and blue must tolerate: clueless tourists, demanding faculty, rowdy and often tipsy students...on normal days. What happens when officers refuse to let student on? "Some get furious and squeal their tires or cuss you out. Or they throw something at you," says Ken Cooper, a 2-year officer. 
Said another officer, "The athletes are the worst ones of all. They think they have some sort of special 
Mark Worscheh 
Managing Editor 


priviledge because they play on a team around here." "Let 'em walk," he says, "They need the exercise." But, to be fair, any driver's commitment to a Walden· 
like campus usually evaporates under the pressure of rain, snow, cold or a beer or two. Realizing one ofthese conditions will be in effect 90 percent of the time, one should have a strategy ready. 
To see what works, why not ask the the judges them­selves? The Security Department certainly has heard them all. Here's what has been tried (and failed): 
•''I'm a brother in Corby Hall." And I'm Father Hes­


At 2 a.m.? 
•"I 
need to pick up my trombone." You can carry it. 

•"I 
have to drop off some things for a party." How 'bout that Alcohol Policy. 


In general, the best advice is to tell the truth. Says one officer, "If a student is honest to me, I'll let him on, but ifhe tries to B.S. his way through, I won't." 
But, let's face it, no secur­ity guard will let someone on who admits, "I'm lazy and don't want to walk." This is where creativity comes in. 

According to one officer, ifyou can't be honest, be crea­tive. 
Try keeping a spare crutch in your car. Or large boxes in your trunk. Or ifyou always dress nicely, say you are picking up your date for a formal. Many sources indicate that girls, in general, have an easier time than the guys do. 
But don't crash the gate or go in on the wrong side. The security folks say thay don't like to play Starsky and Hutch, but they didn't order V-8s in those blue Chrys­lers for nothing. Also, a new gate costs Jl7. 
In sum, give it your best legitimate shot. But ifyou get on campus, avoid parking in front ofdumpsters or in the middle of the quad. Security says it will begin ticketing with a vengence if the problems continue. Or as one officer told me, "Once it starts warming up, we're really going to start pounding the hell out of these students." Perhaps getting by the gate is only half the battle after all. 
Thanks to you... • It works ... for ALL OF US u...iWIIU 


LOGAN CENTER 
NOI SMC Council for the 
Retarded needs new volunteers this week for two
P \()s 

major events:


E~o..1 

SQUARE DANCE
#~ 
~ 

Friday~ 2/22~ 7:30-10 pm
NatreDame Party Weekend 




CARNIVAL REC 
~ 
William P•nn Club [carn•r afIndiana & 

Saturday~ 2/23~ 9-11:30 am
~dt
Prairi• Rv•nu••] 

-Volunteers needed to man booths
f•aturinr:~ 
SauthB•nd"s 

and to help the kids play games
hatt••tdane• band THE KINETICS 

For more information call: 
35' BUDS&&S' 7&7'• 

Tomx2508 
ALL NIGHT LONG 

Kathyx3604 
Mu•l b• 1B la •nl•r, 

Gusx1196 
Z1la drink. 

at St. Mary's call: 
Cathy or Anne 284-5030
ALL FOR S2.DD 


The Observer Friday. February 22, 1985 -page 3 



Icy sidewalks produced by weather are a probletn for students, faculty 
By MARTIN RODGERS 
StaffReporter 
Epileptic movements. A blood­curdling howl or scream. A loud thud. Laughter. Embarrassment. Pain. 
Just when everyone thought it was safe -and warm enough -to go to classes, the problem of icy sidewalks, a product of last week's heavy snowfalls and the subsequent warming trend, can now be a daily pitfall for students, faculty, staff, and maintenance alike. 
"I fell today outside of Washing­
ton Hall on my way to class," said 
Laurie Chu, a Farley freshman. "It 
was embarrassing. I'm from Hawaii 
and this ice thing is a new, painful 
experience. 
"Why don't they do something? 
One week it snowed hard every day 
and they never plowed. It was slip­
pery and the paths were so narrow. 
It's dangerous," Chu said. 
Physical Plant Director Don 
Dedrick is aware ofthe problem and 
the complaints it prompts. He 
assures that his he and his crews will 



SOberingAdvice} . 
cansavealife;;cri 
Think Before You Drink ~"' 
Before You Drive 
continue to "struggle against the forces ofnature" this winter. 
Dedrick says the primary problem is when the severity of the weather is continuous as it was last week. It was "very hard to keep up," he said. 
He also said the extreme cold prevented sodium chloride from working. Sodium chloride is only ef­fective when the temperature is be­tween 20 and 2 5 degrees, he said. Dedrick added plow blades do not clean all the way down to the surface of the sidewalks and that they leave approximately four inches of snow on the ground which develops into ice. 
Finally, Dedrick emphasized the task is a tough one -Notre Dame has approximately eight miles of sidewalks -and that his crews are doing the best job they can. Much of the staff, for instance, worked ap­proximately 16 hours a day la"t. week. 
The problem is similar at Saint Mary's. "Why don't they just pour water all over and let us (ice) skate to class?" said Megan Comstock, a Holy Cross sophomore. "I don't know how many times I've fallen. I'm going to kill myself one ofthese days." 
A potential problem is ifsomeone would injure himself and decides to sue. Notre Dame Counsel Philip Fac­cenda stated, however, he could not recall any such suit in recent years. Such a suit, said Faccenda, would have to be one of "personal injury due to negligence." He noted one could sue the University for anyth­ing, even a common head cold, but would not be likely to collect. 
The city of South Bend similarly has had to deal with unclean streets. The city is not accountable for cleaning the sidewalks, however, having delegated that responsibility to private property owners, said a representative of the South Bend streets department. 
"I've tried every shoe, sneaker, and boot on the market to get me across campus safely," Fisher junior Skip Holtz said of the frozen precipitation on the walkways. "I've come to the conclusion that I'm going to have to order a pair of Bat(man) boots from the Hall of Justice. JPW was great but would have been a lot better ifI didn't have to carry a chisel around to get my mom's heels out ofthe ice. 
"You should have seen the guy I saw coming out of Dillon the other day. His head and feet decided to change places and then he was just laying there. He was one hurtin' cowboy." 

$2 
on 
en
• 0 !c 
• :EN 
. 0~
• 

CA. ® 
Now open at 11om for LUNCH 

$2.00 off any Fast, Free Delivery™ 16"-2item pizza. Plaza 23 Center Offer good at 1835 South Bend Ave. listed locat1ons South Bend 
Good 

Phone 277-2151 
JTC NA 102 2650 
Fri., Sa1., & Sun. 
1984 Dommo·s P1ua. Inc 
Getting through college isn't easy. But help is on the way. Because Domino's Pizza is offering you financial assistance on your next pizza. The Pizza made with 1 00% natural cheeses and fresh. not frozen toppings. And we'll deliver it. custom-made, to your door in 30 minutes or less. GUARANTEED. Call Domino's Pizza and help yourself to the best tasting pizza around. 
DOMINO'S 

PIZZA 

DELIVERSTM FREE. 
Observer/Carol·~';; 

Campus pathways have become quite a hassle in recent days as the wanner weather bas been partially melting the frozen rain ­well, sort of What melts becomes slush and whatdoesn't becomes a health hazard, at least according to some students. Story at left. 

Observer promotions 
Amy Stephan, a third-year Arts and Letters-Engineering major, has been named managing editor of The Observer for 1985-86, and David Stephenitch, a junior accounting major, has been named busi­ness manager. 
An English and electrical engineering student from Piqua, Ohio, Stephan has served as The Observer's project manager, a general board position, since November 1984. As a freshman Stephan was a senior staff reporter. In her sophomore year she served as a news copy editor and in the second semester as an assistant news editor. 
The managing editor is in charge ofthe content, style and layout of The Observer. Stephan's responsibilities will include overseeing the day-to-day production of the paper, as well as its long-range im­provement. 
Stephan's concern is the overall quality ofthe newspaper. Two of her priorities are to improve the writing of the reporters and the general training ofthe staff as a whole. 
The new managing editor noted the momentum that this year's editor-in-chief and managing editor have established and said she wants to continue the progress they have made. "I plan to work to improve people's journalistic skills so as to produce a better product for the students," Stephan said. 
Stephenitch is from Canton, Ill. He has worked as controller ofThe Observer, a general board position which he has held since January of this year. First hired as The Observer's accounts payable clerk in his sophomore year, Stephenitch also has served as assistant control­ler ofthe newspaper. 
As business manager, Stephenitch will oversee The Observer's S300,000 annual budget. One of his priorities is to further develop The Observer's budget process and implement it in all departments. 
Stephan and Stephenitch will assume their new positions March 25. 
THE CLASSICAL GUITAR SOCIETY 
presents: 
"The FirstLady 
ofthe Guitar" 
LIONABOYD 
in concert Saturday, Feb. 23 8:00p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium 
St. Mary's College 


Admission: $10.00 Students: $6.00 
You saw her on the "Tonight Show" Jan. 9, now see her live! 
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT: O'Laughlin Box Office at Mendoza Guitar "North Winds" at 100 Center "Just for the Round" at Town & Country 
VISA and MASTERCARD 
--~--------------~~--~------------~---------~~--­
The Observer Friday, February 22, 1985-page 4 


Wednesday Lunch Fast program •••••••••••••••••••• draws 500 student sign-ups at SMC • DANcE =

sPRING coNcERT 
ByBETIIWHELPLEY 
StaffReporter 
Five hundred students at Saint Mary's have signed up to participate In the Wednesday Lunch Fast which began on Ash Wednesday. Three dollars per student participating in the Fast will be donated to charities by SAGA food services, said Anne Gallagher, co-chairwoman of the program. Colleen Flynn also chairs the program. 
Gallagher pointed out, however, that the actual number of students participating may be closer to 300. 
to the Kumundini Welfare Trust in 
Bangladesh, a women's craft cooperative. Locally, proceeds also have gone to the Justice and Peace 
Center in South Bend. Possible charities this year include Africa and variousemergencyreliefcenters. 
Gallagher described the fast as a "conscience builder." Said Gallag­her, "At Notre Dame, the Hunger Coalition holds a Wednesday Lunch Fast throughout the year. Over here people were beginning to forget 
why they were fasting." Gallagher says having the Fast during Lent is more "conscience-raising." 


Farm aid deal terminates filibuster 
WASHINGTON-The Reagan ad­ministration reached an apparent agreement yesterday with filibuster­Ing farm-state senators who agreed to a package offering slight improve­ments in federal credit aid for farm­ers. 
"I think we've got an agreement if the (Democratic) caucus agrees," said Sen. ). James Exon, D-Neb., a leader of the filibuster that had held up confirmation of Edwin Meese Ill as attorney general and a S7 billion highway bill. 
The tentative settlement came after a full day of meetings involving the Senate Republican leadership, Democratic and GOP farm-state senators and Agriculture Secretary John Block. 
Participants said the improve­ments included written assurance that the administration will provide adequate money for both direct and guaranteed farm operating loans, money that would be used for spring planting. Such assurances have been given repeatedly and publicly by Agriculture Secretary John Block over the past several weeks. 
Also agreed to was a softening of conditions farmers must meet to receive federal loan guarantees ­specifically in the cash flow they must show after payment of loan obligations and living and operating expenses. That level was reduced from the I I 0 percent in the current administration program to 100 per­cent. 
Another provision agreed to was an increase in levels of loan guaran­tees to farm banks. Rural lenders, many of them suffering from the worsening financial condition of their borrowers, had sought to mini­mize their risk through federal back­ing. The negotiations produced agreement to raise the level of federal guarantee by 5 percent each year, up to a maximum of 90 per­cent. 


The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following positions: 
News Editor  Features Editor  
Saint Mary's Executive  Photo Editor  
Editor  Controller  

Sports Editor Advertising Manager Viewpoint Editor Production Manager 
Questions about these positions should be directed to Sarah Hamilton at The Observer. Personal statements and resumes are due Wednesday, Feb. 27 at 5 p.m. 
The Observer 3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Naw 2 Lacatian• Canvenient taNDCampu• 
Shaw yaur •lud•nt arfaculty ID and g•t20% aff gla•••• 
Calltaday far a campl•l• •Ham Dr. Snyd•r. Dr. Alb•rt. & Dr. Capp••· 

ProfessionalVtSion 
ASSOCIATES 
••••N. lranwaod Dr. 1•41 ParbuJ• .lu•t north af McDo......_ ..tw••nOIICa 8-Martin. Z77·11•t z•4·Z4DD 
"We only get money from SAGA for 
the people that keep the Fast. The final answer as to the amount of money that will be made lies in the number ofpeople that keep the Fast for the five weeks ofLent," she said. 
Sign-ups for the fast took place from Monday through Wednesday last week. Although sign-ups are over now, Gallagher commented, "It would have been nice if more people had signed up, but it's their own choice." 
Proceeds from the Wednesday Lunch Fast, now a five-year tradition at Saint Mary's, have formerly gone 
Iowa State University farm econo­mist Neil Harl, who has been a leading analyst of the extent offarm­ers' current credit woes, said the ad­ministration's already announced credit relief program would have helped about 50,000 to 60,000 of the 240,000 producers nationwide in financial stress. 
The changes extracted by the filibustering group will extend that aid to another I0,000 troubled farm­ers, Harl said. 


= 

Open  AuditionS  •  
•  
FEBRUARY 2 3  5 _  7 p.m.  
•1  
REGINA  DANCE  STUDIO  •  

• 

_................... 
ULTRA SAVER FARES 
*Let us show you how inexpensive it is to fly for Spring Break. 
*Fly home for the Weekend. Call and find out the ridiculously low rates!! 
Seven Seas Travel 
525 N. Michigan 232-7995 






Righttoyourdoor. 
(Within a two-mile radius.) 
Call us anytime after 5 p.m., order a 

medium or large pizza piled high with any combination of your favorite 
toppings, sit back and relax. We'll be right over. Just think, hot, thick and delicious Godfather's Pizza, loaded with mountains of toppings and smothered with a thick layer of cheese. Mmmmmmm .... Are you hungry? Call Godfather's Pizza now. We'll be right over. 


277-5880 

52929 U.S. 31 North 
Delivery available only at South Bend location. 
~ ~ -------­
The Observer Friday, February 22, 1985 -page 5 


The Observer/Carol Gales

Twist and pull No, it's not a robot, nor an Imperial Walker from "The Empire Strikes Back."It's one ofthe new cereal dispensers atSouth Dining Hall, and many a student bas been spotted examining one in an attempt tofigure outjust bow it works. 
Communication & Theatre Films at the Snite Indiv. admission $2.50 Series tickets also available 
Fri. Feb. 22  Mon. Feb. 25  Tues. Feb. 26  
Acult hit  Pier Paulo Pasolini's  Luil!i Bunuel's  
Liauld Sky (1983)  Medea !1971)  Phontom of liberty (1974)  
7:30 & 9:30pm  with Marla Callas  7:30 & 9:30pm  
7:00 & 9:00pm  


Indiana University students calling for resignation of WilliaiD Bennett 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -Indiana University students have sent a message to President Reagan calling for the resignation of U.S. Education Secretary William Bennett, a student organization announced yesterday. 
The Indiana University Student Association approved a resolution calling for Bennett's resignation in reaction to a statement the secretary made last week. 
Bennett was quoted as saying Reagan's proposed financial aid cuts for higher education "may require of some student divestiture of certain sorts · stereo divestiture, automo­bile divestiture, three weeks at the beach divestiture." 
The students' resolution urged Reagan to "carefully select a strong advocate of higher education to serve as a replacement for Mr. Ben­nett." 
"I don't expect the resolution to influence whether or not Reagan asks Bennett to resign," said the sponsor of the resolution, senior Chris Salloway. 
"But I think it will make Reagan examine Bennett's statements, his philosophy and his role as secretary of education. We are the first stu· dent body to address this issue, and if our strategy works, there should be a snowball effect," Salloway added at a news conference yester­day. 
Ron Rawald, a junior and presi­dent of the student organization, said letters with a copy ofthe resolu­tion were sent to Reagan and Ben­nett on Monday. 
No response has been made by either Washington official, he said. 
Rawald said letters and copies of the resolution were also sent to 65 Indiana colleges and universities, as well as all Big Ten Conference schools. 


Jury convicts pair of aiding aliens 
The Associated Press 
HOUSTON -A federal jury con­victed the director ofa refugee shel­ter of illegally transporting Salvadoran aliens, while another member ofthe sanctuary movement was found guilty of one of three charges yesterday. 
Attorneys for Jack Elder and Stacey Lynn Merkt promised to ap­

communtCRnor. 
"'-THfRTRf 

The StudentActivities Board is looking for•• 
1985-86 Co01ntittee Chair01en Ideas & Issues Cultural Arts Campus Entertainment Services Publicity Calendar Special Events Musical Entertainment Movies 

Applications available at the Student Activities Office Due February 25, 1985 


GET EXPERIENCE !! 
peal the verdicts, reached after about four hours ofdeliberation. 
Elder, 41, who directs the Roman Catholic Church-sponsored Casa Oscar Romero shelter in San Benito, near the Mexican border, said his conviction on five charges would not deter him from his activities. 
"I'm proud that I am following the best traditions of my faith and our country," Elder said. 
Merkt, 30, was found guilty on one count of conspiracy but inno­cent of two counts of tranporting two Salvadoran aliens. 
"I don't know whether to cryor to yell about the injustices both here and there," Merkt said, referring to El Salvador. "I believe it is time to yell. I will persevere." 
Sanctuary activists say they are helping refugees on the premise that international and U.S. laws, includ­ing the 1980 Refugee Act, grant legal asylum to refugees who are fleeing political persecution and violence. 
Elder could be fined up to S28,000 and sentenced to 30 years in prison. Merkt faces a maximum five years in prison and a $10,000 fine. U.S. districtJudge Filemon Vela set sentencing for March 27. 
Merkt already is on two years' probation for a similar conviction in May and could lose her probation pending the outcome ofa March 15 hearing in Brownsville. 
"I was grateful," assistant U.S. at­torney Robert Guerra said. "We only try people that we believe we have a good case against." 
Merkt, a volunteer at the shelter, was accused of taking the aliens from the shelter to a McAllen bus station on Nov. 21. 
Elder was charged with two counts ofconspiracy and two counts ofhelping two Salvadorans enter the United States illegally. He also was accused of driving two aliens on Nov. 8 from the U.S.-Mexican border to the shelter. 
He was acquitted last month on charges of transporting three Sal­vadorans in March 1984. 
One of the Salvadorans in the latest case, Jose Andreas Mendez­Valle, identified Elder and Merkt as the Americans who helped him and four other aliens after they crossed the U.S.-Mexican border. Another Salvadoran with him, however, could not identify the defendants. 

Board 
continuedfrom page 1 

like you didn't want to be part ofthe committees or that you didn't have time for them." 
In McDowell's opinion, many commissioners did not know what duties were expected from them when they were appointed by their hall presidents. He felt a lack ofcom­munication was responsible, but was uncertain who was to blame. 
"We don't know where the prob­lem lies. We need to find out exactly where the communication gap is oc­curring for the new commissioners so that they know their responsibili­ties and duties as members of the council next year," he said. 
Erasmus Books 
1027 E. Wayne Tues-Sun, noon-6 1 block south of Jefferson & Eddy 
Later in the meeting McDowell announced the possibility of creat­ing a position on the Judicial Coun­cil for an off-campus student. The off-campus representative would have full voting rights on the coun­cil. 
"What I want to create is a posi­tion where the off-campus student could be represented in a voting capacity on the judicial body," he said. "Should an off-campus student be accused of a University offense, they have a right to know about the judicial process and their judicial rights, which the Judicial Council promotes." 
Also announced at last night's meeting were the dates for the up­coming class elections. They will be held March 5, and if necessary, run­offs will be held March 7. 



t presents: 
~ 
~ 
~ ~ 

~ ~OJ THE LAW
~ '\,0 ~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 

~ &
~ 
~

! 75(: Gin & Tonics 
: Also, now open for lunch &dinner ~ 
************************************ 
~ 
*
* 
~ * 

~~· *
~~I' 
*
* 
* 
*
* 
*
*
* 







~i~~~_()__i__ll__t__________________
Fr-ida-y,_Fe-br-ua_ry-22-,1-98-5--pa-ge-6 
--------,---------------~ -­
~'~~;::~:;:;;;=-?'~----~~­
BERN~ ~~ SrOCI(N.A~ 

Authenticity originates 
with moral consistency 
Human being.-; are natural organizers. We seem to automatically seek consistency in our experience and beliefs and, at times, invent consistency where none exists. Nowhere is this tendency more prevalent than in our most serious moral considerations. This ten-
Charles Boudreaux only solitaire 
dency towards "surface consistency" often leads to betraying the life principle from which those tenets arose. 
The most serious moral question, one might claim. are the ethics concerning human life and death. The secular humanist believes in the innate worth of each human being. Those holding religious belief believe in ser­vice to all "neighbors;" that is, the world's population. 
To point out the dangers of surface consis­tency, let us use as example the individual who maintains abortion to be wrong under all circumstances. A person who arrives at this decision necessarily believes the fetus to be either a human life at conception or so sure to be one that it should enjoy the same rights as any other human being, most importantly, the right to live. 
'Iltis decision entails holding as fundamen­tal that human life is unequivocably prized and/or sacred, depending upon one's founda­tion In humanism and/or religion. 
What are the ramifications of this belief? In keeping with human nature, one would want a stronger position by applying his or her beliefs on the preservation of life to areas other than abortion. Examples would lead to possibly new beliefs that war and capital punishment are wrong. 
If we continue to generalize, we will find ourselves face-to-face with some nasty conse­quences. 
A belief that all life is to be preserved rapidly brings the believer to two serious so­cial problems. The first is the problem ofover­population and starvation in underdeveloped nations. 
Admittedly, two possible "outs" exist. The food supply could be increased through bet­ter cultivation or provisions from more developed nations. Birth .control, whether natural or artificial, could be introduced. The first solution sounds good, but the West does not seem to show a concerted response unless an Ethiopia-sized develpos. If the "preciousness of life" opinion-holder accepts birth control, he or she is forced to accept the notion that fecundity is not always a good thing, a challenge to that person's consis­tency. 
The second problem is perhaps the more morally difficult. With the continual develop­
ment of artificial organs and other forms of 
medical technology. it will not be long until 
we can create the "human superman," the in­
dividual who can be sustained indefinitely on 
life-support devices. The moral quandary 
arises when the "superman" decides that he 
no longer wants to live, thereby begging the 
question ofthe right to die or the "living will." 
The individual who believes absolutely in the 
sanctity of life-and many doctors are in this 
category-would want to sustain the individ­
ual's life at the expense ofhis or her free will. 
This sort of moral morass is just where the 
consistent moral tenet falls short of a true 
morality. We seem to have secured quantity of 
life rather than quality, a position which 
seems to miss the point of both the religious 
and the humanist messages. Underlying the 
tenet of "absolute preservation of life" must 
be a deeper meaning. What is life? Heartbeat? 
Happiness? This answer, the true tenet 
beneath the surface statement ofour morality, 
may be much harder to discover than the 
seemingly consistent statement "preservation 
oflife." 

How, then, are we to decide between the 
human, the inhuman, and the humane? We 
seem to be left with two undesirable alterna­
tives. We could hold on to our sample policy 
of "life first"; while consistent, this sort of 
policy seems to miss the underlying moral 
principle from which it was derived. Instead, 
we could have a policy which is inconsistent; 
while not risking the danger of "surface con­
sistency," each of our individual moral posi­
tions would be weakened because of the lack 
ofconsistency across our ethical spectrum. 
It seems that our only way out is a mongrel 
blend of these two alternatives. We need to 
ask ourselves where our consistency should 
lie: should it rest, for example, on the surface 
of the word "life" or on the underlying 
meaning ofthat word in terms ofour true fun­
damental moral belief? I believe we must be 
consistent to our fundamental belief or life 
principle, not consistent from particular tenet 
to particular tenet. This mixture, of course, 
has its own drawbacks. Without a policy that 
features surface consistency, one must look 
much deeper for moral answers that are in 
turn much more difficult to come by than 
before. 

Is my proposal that ofa variable morality? It 
may appear so to some. I do not claim to have 
proposed any answers or made any judgments 
on the sample moral problems I mentioned. 
What I propose is consistency in terms of 
one's central moral belief is the only consis­
tency which allows one to be authentic. Ifwe 
really look to see where we want to place our consistency, we can center our beliefs on , moral bedrock, not on "surface consistency." 
Charles Boudreaux is a junior in the Pro­gram ofLiberal Studies and a regular View­point columnist. 

Reagan has complicated 
aid to troubled farmers 
David Stockman is right about farm sub­sidies, and so are his critics. This is a compl­icated matter that Ronald Reagan has tangled into even tighter knots. 
Campaigning, Reagan could not define "parity," but he was for or against it in differ­ing time zones. He has a long record ofsaying 
Garry Wills 
outrider 

that agriculture should return to a market basis, but in 1982, his second year in office, farm subsidies ran three times what they had been in Jimmy Carter's last official year ( $12 billion, against $4 billion). In fact, before Reagan took office, the subsidies had never gone above S6 billion. 
Reagan managed to combine this largesse with a heavy rate offarm closures, which is in itselfno mystery -most farm aid goes to large­scale farmers. Only to the marginal was this aid not, marginally, enough. 
The best argument against Stockman is in terms of timing. The government has ex­tended just enough aid to help those smaller farmers expand, and now a credit cutoff will make them lose even their original holdings. 
Since there is always an answer to every an­swer in this merry-go-round world, Stockman might reply: There is no good time to cut a failing program -each moment you challenge it can be presented as especially inopportune, and the longer you put off the difficult deci­sion, the worse does everything become (including the matter of timing). 
But Stockman's boss must bear a good deal 

Fighting and backbiting 
hurts our government 
Editor's Note: Because ofa production er­ror john Perez's column appeared incor­rectly in theFeb. 14 issue ofThe Observer. It is reprinted here in itsproperfonn. 
By now, everyone is sick to death of the Great Notre Dame Election Scandal of 198S. For those of you who were hiding under a rock for the past week or so and didn't hear about it, I'll briefly reiterate the story, hope­fully for the last time. It seems that one SBP/SBVP ticket committed several infrac-
John Perez 

just wondering 
tions ofcampaigning rules, was caught, had its candidacy withdrawn, and ultimately had its candidacy reinstated. In the process, a whole bunch of "important and influential" people connected with the electoral process and stu­dent government resigned. Space limitations preclude my providing the scorecard neces­sary to keep track of who did what and to whom on this merry-go-round. 
In the aftermath of this mini-Watergate (Domergaten one must wonder not only what the role ofstudent government at Notre Dame is, but who is "student government". The Student Senate? The Ombudsman? The Hall President's Council? 
A couple of days ago, I asked roughly a dozen of my friends who the student body president was. Only three replied "Rob Ber­tino." None of them had any idea who their student senator was. A few could describe OBUD's functions. Most had an idea of what the HPC was. My point is: If these bodies are such a vital part of our community and sup­posedly play a major role in student affairs, why don't we hear or know more about them? Are they really fulfilling the needs of the typi­cal student, or are they just a source of nifty­of the blame for the truly extraordinary crisis that farmers are facing. Reagan's record deficit is keeping interest rates high, making farm loans unpayable. while it keeps the dollar high, making exported food unsellable to many customers. 
High as interest rates are in general, they have been running three or four percentage points higher for farmers -precisely because farms have become a bad risk, and banks that do agricultural business are themselves at risk. 
Even Reagan's great achievement -the taming of inflation through a recession that had us at I I percent unemployment in his first term -has hurt farmers, bringing down the in­flated value of their assets while their interest payments were going up. 
There is no clean solution -the mythical market will never be restored. But the myths of parity must die, and as much government aid as can be cut without massive bank col­lapses must be cut. The main thing is to dis­criminate in f~ vor ofthe smaller farms -which is exactly the opposite of Reagan's approach 
. to everything else. His first term set records in the closing of small businesses. His second term is already beginning to set records in the closing of small farms. The friend of "enterprise" is really a friend of bigness; of trickle-down, as Stockman admitted in an­other context; and there is not enough, in Reagan's vaunted time ofprosperity, to trickle as far down as he is driving the lower ranks of our society. 
(C) 1985, UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
who admitted their guilt. It strippul thcm ol 
their candidacy. A job well done. 
Then the Student Senate steped in. ll oH:r· turned OBUD's decision and restored the guilty parties to the ballot. Why? -we don't know. The decision was made in secret, and no explanations were offered. Is this a job well done? 
Ultimately, an ad hoc election committee ran the elections, accomplishing what usually takes months to organize in a mere two days. The elections were conducted without inci­dent. However, all is stil not well. 
The problem is obvious: nobody really knows who is responsible for what. Egos take precedence over rules. Our "leadership" has no direction. A policy of"see no evil, hear no evil, speak no evil" just will not work. The people with the most potential power and in­fluence are least in touch with the student body as a whole. The election fiasco was merely a symptom of this disarray in general. 
Despite the good intentions of many, our present system ofstudent leadership is a joke. It is a very bad joke. Like any bad joke, it reflects as poorly upon the perpetrator as the victim. We have the people and ideas to make our community truly great, we only need a push in the right direction. Better organiza­tion and communication is that push. 
The campus leadershipmust realize that in­fighting and backbiting will get them, and us, nowhere. Goals and objectives must be set. Strategies and programs to achieve these goals must be implemented, maintained, and reviewed. Responsibilities must be assigned, and the various governmental bodies must respect each others' duties and decisions. Most importantly, they must remember whom they represent -the students. Closed door meetings and secret ballots are tools of dictators, not legislators. We have a right to know what's going on and why. Isn't getting fair representation what elections are all 
Viewpoint wants to bear from you. Ifyou looking resume items for their members? about? bave an opinion, brlllant tnstgbt or In the case of our recent election, OBUD
Viewpoint 
humorous comment concerning anytbtng laid down the rules and enforced them. It used john Perez is a junioraccounting majorat 
appearing In The Observer just send a let­its "espionage network" to hunt down cam­Notre Dame and is a regular Viewpoint col­
ter to P.O.Box Q. paign violations. It confronted the violators, umnist.

Policy 

ViewP-oint Friday, February 22, 1985 _ page 7 
' 


P.O. Box Q 
Pettifer's commentary riddled with feminism 
DearEditor: 
Ann Pettifer once again has indulged 
Observer readers with one ofher pathetically 
misinformed commentaries riddled with the 
belligerent feminism that has become her 
trademark. In her most recent article she has 
warned the sophomore class of the dangers 
involved in their asking Pope John Paul II to 
speak at their commencement. 
She makes atrocious insinuations concern­
ingJohn Paul's intentions. Pettifer accuses the 
pope of being unjust in his dealing with 
church theologians. She sees his silencing 
men such as Hans Kung as being threatening 
to academic freedom. She states, "The class of 
'87 must ask itself whether a man who would 
suppress the findings of an academic inquiry 
belongs at a university commencement." If 
the findings of an intrinsically subjective 
report are in contrast with the church's teach­
ing,John Paul II has every right and, in fact, the 
duty to denounce them. Especially if the 
report is misrepresented as the church's 
stance. 
The most blatant perversion of reason of 
which Pettifer is guilty is her manipulation of 
Schillebeeckx's writings concerning the early 
church. She alludes to the difference between 
the role of the priesthood in today's church 
and the early church. What is your point Pet­
titer? Of course the roles were different. Are 
you implying that the early church was per­
fect? If you would bother reading the New 
Testament past the Gospels you would find 
hundreds of examples of the problems that 
riddled the early church, however, the early 
church should consider itself lucky for not 
having to contend with these heresies being 
published in campus newspapers. 
Pettifer sees the pope as a despotic ruler on 
an inquisitional church. Any astute reader can 
plainly see that Pettifer's zealous feminism 
clouds her judgment of the pope. In all her 
whining one can see she glides over a very 
important fact. When Christ chose his 
apostles -apostles to which he would intrust 
the job of spreading his word -he chose 
twelve men. Oh, no. MaybeJesus Christ was a 
male chauvinist. Just because the church has 
delegated certain jobs to a certain sex does 
not mean that women are incapable offull par­
ticipation in the life ofthe church. To say they 
are is an affront to women such as Teresa of 
Avila, Catherine of Sienna, Mary of Magdala, 
and the Blessed Virgin Mary. 
Paul Douglas Morrissey Hall 
A mature person is one who has an open mind 
DearEditor: 
This letter is written in response to the Feb. 18 Viewpoint guest column by Ann Pettifer. Pettifer raises some points concerning the re­quest by the sophomore class representatives to have Pope John Paul II speak at their class commencement. In her column, Pettifer argues that the pope would be the wrong per­son to speak at the commencement. 
She begins her arS~;ument by stating that the pope is from a long line of "lousy popes." Whether or not this statement is biased, ex­tremist or incorrect is not relevant to any argument against this pope being invited to speak. If President Reagan wished to speak at commencement, we would not cite the exam­ples of earlier presidents against him. Presi­dent Reagan would certainly not be turned down because Thomas Jefferson was a male chauvinist slave owner, Franklin Pierce was a drunkard and Nixon was a crook. The faults of these past presidents have no bearing on whe­ther or not Reagan would be a good speaker or is a good president. Likewise, the example of past popes has no relevance to any argument against our present pope. 
Pettifer continues by attempting to present the pope as an unjust figure. She writes that we should be revolted at the trial of the "scholarly Dutch Dominican Edward Schil­lebeeckx." According to Pettifer the Vatican has been "hounding" this liberal theologian due to his view that, in the absence ofa priest, a community should celebrate Eucharist with a person of either sex presiding, even if he or she has to be ordained, post haste. 
It is true that the Vatican does disagree with Schillebeeckx on this point, which comes more from his scholarly view of the early church, by the way, then from an advocacy of changing present policy. This is, however, not the primary reason that he has come to the attention of the Vatican. The major problem concerning Schillebeeckx is that he sometimes appears to question the divinity of Christ. As a Dominican priest and a widely read Catholic theologian, it is not surprising that the Vatican should ask for an explanation of his ideas when they conflict with the tradi­tional views of the Church. This is not a new thing for Schillebeeckx. His writings have brought him before the Vatican several times in the past. After his explanations, he has remained, at least at present, a Catholic theo­logian in good standing. 
Pettifer continues her argument by claim­ing that, because ofthe Pope's attitude toward the ERA and his opposition to women in the priesthood, he would not be a good speaker. Not wishing to get anyone up in arms, 1 will neither support nor argue against the pope's stance. However, I do not think that his stance is relevant to whether or not he would be a good speaker. Pope John Paul II is powerful, influential religious and political leader in the present world. Whether or not we agree with him on all things, he is certainly a man worth listening to. After all, if we only listen to people that we agree with, wewill not learn or grow. 
Pettiferclosed her column by stating that "a mature Catholic is a Christian who sees con­version as an ongoing process." I end my let­ter by stating that a mature person is one who listens with an open mind. 
Brendan Bellina St. Edward's Hall 

Chance to vote on SBP could have been denied 
DearEditor: 

I would like to address two issues, as stu­

dent body treasurer and as a member of the Student Senate. In Wednesday's "Inside" column, Tom Mowle proposed the abolishment of the Stu­
dent Senate. As mentioned in his news analy­sis, a function performed by the senate is to set the budget for student campus organizations. This consists of 80 percent of the student ac­tivities fee or $210,000. A solution, according to Mowle, would be for the administration to set the budget; the administration has no say, presently, in the allocations of the student ac­tivities fee. 
A student activities fee is a fee paid by the students to be used explicitly for the students, according to the student's wants and needs. Who else would be better qualified to budget the student activities fee than students, and involved students at that -the Student Senate. 
The sentiment around this campus for the last few years has been that the administration has too much "control" in the students' social life. Mowle seems to advocate more adminis­trative control; control that has not been con­tested by the administration. 
The recent decision by the Student Senate to permit the Pat Browne-Joanie Cahill ticket to be reinstated in the Student Body Presiden­tial campaign has been a very hot topic, at least in The Observer, for the past week. From resignations ofvarious senate members to the proposal ofabolishing ofthe senate have been the only responses to the decision made last Saturday afternoon. 
I was one of the eight senate members to vote the Browne-Cahill ticket back into the race. 
In making a decision, one cannot just look at the infraction, enforce the prescribed punishment, and shut the book. This seems to be the way many students and senate mem­bers have looked at this issue. Campaign rules were broken, thus the candidacy, per the elec­tion rules, must be forfeited. 
In this case, however, I felt that we, the sen­ate, had to look at the consequences of our decision, and not only "enforce the rules." 
Had the Student Senate disallowed the Browne-Cahill ticket to run, the senate, in ef­fect, would have elected the next Student Body President, a the remaining ticket of Healy-Lawrence would have, therefore, been unopposed. 
I know the Student Senate does not have much clout, as stated by its adversaries, but do you feel the senate, a body consisting of 15 voting members, should have decided who the next student body president and vice president would be? 
I sure as hell don't. And it seems that the 1,051 students who voted for Browne-Cahill felt the same way. 
I, or the senate, obviously do not condone the actions taken by Browne-Cahill during the campaign. Thus, we did apply restrictions on their future campaigning before the election. 
The students knew full well of the infrac­tions, per The Observer. Thus, the students should be the ones who choose their next stu­dent body president and vice president. 
I hope the student body somehow ap­preciates that they were given the opportunity to vote in 1985 for their SBP/SBVP by the senate. Because, if some sen­ate members and The Observer editorial board had their way, the students would have been denied the chance to vote for student body president. 


AlfredNovas StudentBody Treasurer 


Blatantly ignorant to expell Browne/Cahill 
DearEditor: 
In response to Frank Andreano's article 
concerning the expelling ofPat Browne. I too, 
feel compelled to make the following state­
ment. Andreano's suggestion that Browne and 
Cahill be expelled is probably the most Judi· 
crous and blantantly ignorant statement I 
have heard come from one of the supposed 
future leaders here at Notre Dame. 
As a friend of mine put it, why don't we all 
just take Pat and Joanie down to the Grotto 
and shoot them. Andreano's statement makes 
him far more a disgrace to the University than 
he claims Browne is. For Andreano to suggest 
such an disproportionate punishment and 
then to imply that he is part of the highly 
moralistic society here at Notre Dame is about 
as hypocritical a statement as one could make. 
Clearly Browne's actions were wrong. He 
knows it, and has told me he is sorry about the 
whole affiar but that he has to face it and take 
what he deserves. Andreano seems to think 
that Pat's mistake warrants that his future 
should be considered ruined. Pat does not 
deserve to attend any graduate school, or for 
that matter, obtain any desirable job he may 
wish to seek. This is what Andreano's state­
ment implies, as this would be the case ifhis 
suggestion be carried out. 
Pat has done nothing less than make one of 
those once-in-a-while big mistakes that we all 
make. To suggest such a fate as Andreano 
proposes in immoral, unethical and in my 
opinion un-Christian. Andreano would do bet­
ter in the future to make sure he thinks before 
he makes such hideous remarks. 
I have known Pat Browne for fourteen years and am proud ofit. I knowwhat kind ofperson he is and it gets me quite angry when I read such attacks on his character. In my opinion Pat is one of the most hard working, con­cerned and good natured people I know. Had he realized the severity of his actions beforehand, things would have been different. 
Although it does not justify his actions, Pat's past accomplishments and the hard work he has put in for our benefit, should say some­thing about him. I hope that before anyone. else equates his actions with those of a com­pletely immoral, uncaring person they take this into account. 
My wish is not that Pat andJoanie's mistakes go unnoticed and forgotten but, that perhaps a few of us are taking things a bit too far in our allegations against them. 
It's too bad Pat didn't realize the severity of his actions because they cost us all the chance to have another hard working and concerned Student Body President. 
Ifmy reasoning here is wrong then I suggest we all meet at the Main Circle, as we did for the basketball team. Only this time, wear white sheets and carry torches. Andreano will lead us over to Pat's room and then down to Joanie's and finally we'll run them off campus. Let's all get together, as Andreano put it, and show everyone just how moral we can be. 
Jim Reilly 
Carroll Hall 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters to the editor is en­
couraged. 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief_ _Bob Vonderheide Managing Editor . . ___ Mark Worscheh News Editor . . . . ... Sarah Hamilton News Editor .. _. . .... Dan McCullough Saint Mary's Editor ..... Anne Monastyrski Sports Editor_ . . . Michael Sullivan Viewpoint Editor _. . . .. Dave Grote Features Editor _____ ......... Mary Healy Photo Editor . ............... Pete Laches 


Department Managers 
Business Manager...... _.... Dave Taiclet Controller ..............Dave Stephenitch Advertising Manager. _..... Anne Culligan Circufation Manager . ......... Jeff O'Neill Systems Manager . ....... Mark B. Johnson Production Manager_ ........ Chris Bowler Project Manager ........... Amy Stephan 
Founded November 3, 1966 
--------~---------------------­




Accent Fugitives from the law 
Monica Fatum 
features staffwriter 
Not aJI dorm residents pay room escape but has never made it and board. beyond her room. 
There is a group offugitives from Ig the iguana is a complacent du Lac who do not allend class but aquarium dweller. Ig's happiness in arc the loyal companions of those South Bend is strange becuase he who do. This group comes in all enjoys nothing more than heat. A shapes and sizes both familiar and pleasant evening consists ofclose­bizarre. ness to a hot radiator. 
Cujo the cat spent seven months Pulse the parakeet has his name as a resident of Holy Cross Hall at because he was bought on impulse. Saint Mary's. She was not allowed to The only time that he is confined to leave the room because cats are his cage is LeMans in when his strictly forbidden to live in dorms. roomates are in bed. 
The worst part offeline life at Pulse finds enjoyment in sitting Saint Mary's was the fear of being on people's shoulders and singing discovered. The room door had to nonstop. On one of his excursions be shut quickly so escape was not in LeMans, he was friendly enough possible. Cujo left school at spring to stop and check in with the local break last year; the fear ofdiscovery resident assistant who accepted was too much. him as a somewhat welcome guest. 
Blanch thrives on the cock­Ralph underwent a definite roaches In Zahm Hall. An occasional climate change when he moved pork chop from the dining hall may from the warm-sandy beaches of 


supplement this harmless Mexican Florida to Lyons Hall. Instead of red-legged tarantula's life. hanging out at the beach this hermit 
The highlight of Blanch's life, crab now lives in a plastic bowl. which is normally confined to a Ralph does not get much attention, terrarium, Is frightening innocent his roomates say, becuase he is a people. Her owners will place her dull pet. on "Omeone's neck and scream as if Other pets found at Notre Dame spiders were about to take over the and Saint Mary's are fish. Goldfish world. This probably does not and piranhas seem to be favorites endear Blanch to many. although their coexistence in the 

Rat sightings are common in same tank is usually short lived. many of the older dorms, but 
Blanch the Mexican red-legged 1arantula

Howard Hall has one named Paula These pets all live, hidden from 
in regular residence. Paula lives in view, in the dorms ofSaint Mary's 
an aquarium on a diet similar to that and Notre Dame. They rely on 
of many student's -she eats cereal at kindness, mercy and the closed 
most meals. She has allempted mouths of their neighbors. 
James Butler proves that Blanc 
r r 


Correction

r 
Becau~t' ol an t"diting l'rror S(•ngs by Fats Waller wrrt· incor­rectly idt·ntified in the review of "Ain't Misbehaving." The proper titles are "Fat and Greasy," and "Your Feet's Too Big." 


Certain pets may be legal 
mony, Gladius was laid to rest un­


Monica Fatum 
der a shady tree in a pencil box 

features staff writer lined with tissues. While no tears were shed, Gladius' owner admitted 
Wlln ever said that the best dorm would never again fight over a that the occasion was sad. pet is a dead dorm pet! It could goldfish. Life after death can be an im­have been the Office of Student Joe, the owner ofthe dead fish, provement for some pets. Fred, a Affairs mourned the loss ofhis pets. stuffed squirrel who resembles the 
They contend that "for safety and "Have you ever seen a piranha one on the Phone Directory -tail health reasons, pets or animals of chase a goldfish and munch the hell and all -has served as companion to any kind are not to be kept on out ofit? What an emotional his owner for almost eight years. campus or brought onto the release," reminisced the distraught campus." former owner. "Maybe I'm just a Currently Fred graces his 
But does the phrase "ofany kind" little psychotic," he said. ownner's desk and helps him out include dead pets? Ifnot, then In any case, the threesome was with homework occaisionally. former pet owners out there are painstakingly wrapped in a copy of Fred's life after death is far from all safe and many have stories to tell. The Observer and tenderly tossed work and no play. His owner and 
Two weeks ago, the day started in the nearest trash can. After all, his friends dubbed Fred "the official out like any other for Oedipus, dead fish do stink. roadtrip squirrel.". Fred is already Wally, and The Beaver. Little did sporting a pair ofsunglasses for his the three battle-scarred piranhas Some owners strive for more upcoming jaunt to Florida this know it was to be their last. As the dignified burial services. A crowd of spring. trio ofunwary fish roamed about six, dressed in black, gathered at a The subject ofdead dorm pets is their aquarium, the water tempera­wake to lament the loss ofGladius, a not a pretty one. Perhaps it is not ture rose to 120 degrees. hamster who resembled the squir­even a legal one on the Notre Dame 
Needless to say, Oedipus, Wally rel on the Phone Directory -minus campus. Nevertheless, dead dorm 
and The Beav were in hot water. the tail, ofcourse. pets and their owners are certainly 
The largest piranhas on campus During the closed casket cere-worth a chuckle or two. 

Jennifer Friedhof and Ralph her hermit crab 
Photos by Johannes Hacker 


-----~~­
Friday, February 22, 1985 -page 8 -9 


Darby II starts his 6th year at ND 
stream oflight from under the door to be a comedian, because there's that he's inside listening for my not a funny bone it its entire body.
Rev. 
footsteps. He hates being alone, and People need funny bones more
Robert he depends on my being there to than dogs do. Ifthey wish to be 
Griffin 
take care ofhim. I don't think he's educated they should learn to enjoy spoiled, because I know the hard and take part in the human comedy Letters to a Lonely God times he puts up with. because it's the only answer to the 
Pet owners can make fools of absurdity of the universe. 
Five years ago this week, Darby is SOIJlething good to cat and a pat themselves by pretending that their O'Gill II came to live with me as a on the head from a friend. dogs are as smart as people. Darby The way to defeat evil is to laugh nine-week old cocker-spaniel Strangers meeting Darby will say, and I are partners, but he is not my at it. Clowns in the circus, getting puppy. The original Darby died on "I bet he's spoiled." He gets a lot of equal. What worries me is when I dumped on by disaster -the seats of Monday, Feb. 18. The next day, I attention; he's the pet-in-residence start wondering if I am his equal. He the pants catch fire, their cars blow went to Chicago to pick up Darby of Pasquerilla West He takes daily qutshines me in patience and the up, their houses bum down -are II, bringing him home in a box on walks on this beautiful campus. He quickness to forgive, but I have a indestructible, because part oftheir my lap. gets most ofhis meals on time. He better sense ofhumor. sweetness is comic. The races that 
I told him that as a priest's dog, travels extensively,but he doesn't Cocker spaniels, ifyou can have been put on the rack get in the he had his work cut out for him, always get his own way. I don't believe their eyes, take life last word because they pass down because a priest's dog is like a humor as part of their folk wisdom. preacher's kid. Both need to stay Darby O'Gill sitts in my PW door­out oftrouble. way as a con artist, soliciting bites 
Darby got his orders to keep his ofpizza from the students leaving nose clean at all times. He wasn't to food sales. He looks as mischievous go out nights in search ofgarbage as a street urchin. He has the ways cans to upset. He wasn't to bark at ofCharlie Chaplin playing the little security guards dressed up as the tramp, with a dignity that keeps me official campus fuzz. He wasn't to respectful. Maybe he's laughing at chase squirrels up trees, or make me as a dim-witted human being, love to the rabbits. He wasn't to incapable ofseeing through his show up as an uninvited guest in little schemes, yet tender toward the Huddle to beg food. me because he thinks I'm limited. I 
He was to be available to every wouldn't like to underestimate him. homesick student wanting to scratch him. He couldn't indulge Some pet owners claim that they himselfas a nuisance ifhe wished to have dogs that wear smiles, forget­stay at Notre Dame. ting nature has provided them with 
Ifhe could hang in there with a tails instead ofa grin. Some people 
show ofclass I promised him I seem unaware that a sense of 
would do my best to make him the humor is proof that the soul ofman most famous Catholic dog in is immortal. It was the gift that God America. Over the years I've gave man to help him endure after worked harder at my part ofthe the loss ofEden. Some ofus in this bargain than he has at his. age ofanxiety let our funny bones 
Having a great reputation means sleep instead ofgetting the use of nothing to him. He just wants to be them to keep us dancing. free as a dog, living by his instincts. pamper him to the point of ruining seriously. When I play tricks on Darby has the air ofplaying life 
A moldy biscuit left in the grass him. I like him too well for that. him, like hiding his food, he never straight, but maybe the joke's on for the birds in winter brings him I'm not an easy boss to live with. sees the joke. Dogs, I think, could me. Strangers ask ifhe knows any more joy than a bowl ofAlpo. His He has seen his share ofsmoke­rule the world ifthey weren't so tricks. I tell them that his greatest nose is always busy picking up IDled rooms. I feel bad when my literal. trick has been to remain on campus scents. dog's coat reeks ofnicotine. I worry Literal-mindedness is never very all this time. He has survived having 
My bullying doesn't cure him of more about his lungs being spoiled smart. Darby has always played me as a roommate, and remains the habit ofsniffing out the feeding by tobacco than I do my own. games. He bluffs me into thinking sweet-tempered while doing so. He grounds ofwild creatures. He He spends a lot oftime waiting he's doing things my way. Then, probably has an agenda for survival doesn't care ifhis name is men­for me. When I come back to my when I'm offguard, he does it his as an amused and tolerant dqg. He's tioned in the papers. Darby doesn't room after hours away, I can see way. I wish I could show him that a very private animal. I'm grateful 
a harmless tarantula read the papers. All he ever asks for from his shadow blocking the he's hilarious. You can't train a dog that he stays so faithful. 


Nazz 
•Tonight, 
a New Music Show will be featuring Peter Aboud. He will be dis­playing his skills in playing the piano from 8 to 9. 

•It's 
the return ofthe campus legends John Kennedy andjoe Dolan and their specialty -Irish folk music and story telling. Don't miss it. Joe Dolan is flying in from California for this event. 

• 
Prince will be dazzling the audience in the Engineering Auditorium this weekend. The captivating "Purple Rain" is to be featured by the Student Activities Board. This is story ofa musician's rise to fame, despite numerous obstacles that he confronts. It makes for an exciting two hours that feature some of the star's hits such as "When Doves Cry" and "Let's Go Crazy". Showings will be tonight and tomorrow night at 7, 9, and 11. Admission will be $1.50. 

•Tonight 
at 7:30 and 9:30 the Friday Night Film Series will present the 1983 film "Liquid Sky" in the Annenberg Auditorium for $2.50. This picture, filmed by Soviet emigres, is set in New York. It is a modern fairy tale in which aliens, flying saucers and scientists replace witches, 



fairies and elves in a parable of modern alienation. 

Art 

•Opening 
tonight will be the displays of­etchings done by Linda Plotkin at Hammes Gallery ofSaint Mary's College from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. 

•Glenn 
Zweygardt: Steel and Stone Sculpture will continue to be shown this weekend from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Zweygardt teaches sculpture and is deparment chairman at New York State College ofCeramics at Alfred University. His monumental steel and stone sculpture has been featured in numerous one-man shows, as well as in private and public collections in the States. 

•Opening 
Sundayat noon in the Women's Art Leage Gallery of the Art Center is the exhibit Selections &om the Art Ceter 


Permanent Collection: Hoosier Ar· 
tists. This show is one in a continuing 
series ofexhibitions sponsored by the Art 
Center which focuses upon various 
aspects ofits permanent collection. The exhibit will feature paintings by cele­brated historical Indiana artists such as 
Theodore Clement Steele, Frank V. Dud­
ley, John E. Bundy, Otto Stark and others. 
The Art Center is located at 120 S. St. Joseph Street. 
Theater 


•Nell Simon's famed "The Gingerbread Lady" will be presented by South Bend Civic Theatre this weekend at the Scottish Rite Auditorium, 409 N. Main Street, South Bend. Performances will be tonight and tomorrow night at 8:30. Tickets may be reserved by calling 234-1112. 



Dance~ 
•Records worth $300, compliments of CBS Records, will be awarded to the winner ofthe rock star look-alike contest at the dance in the Chautauqua ballroom tomorrow night. Audio specialist ofSouth Bend and Camelot Music will be giving away numerous other awards. Cindy Lauper, Bruce Springsteen, Sade, Tina Marie, Culture Club and other well known artists' music will fill Chautauqua from 9 to 1. "It'll be a marvelous time," promises WVFI station manager Kurt Holzberlein. 
Tickets are Sl per person and S1.50 per couple. So don't miss this exciting eve­ning tomorrow. "For one dollar you can't miss," Holzberlein said. Tune in to VFI for details on the CBS records which will be given away all week. 
Mass 
The celebrants for Mass at Sacred Heart Church this weekend will be: Father DanielJenky at 5:15p.m. 
(Saturday night vigil). Father William Beauchamp at 9 a.m. Father DanielJenky at 10:30 a.m. Father DanielJenky at 12:15 p.m. 




Tbe Oh.<en•er Notre Dame oHi<T. located on the third noor of l.al·or!UIW StLu.km Center. accepts dassitkd adv.-rtising from ':1 a.m. until ·l p.m.. :\londav through Friday. The Ohsert•er Saini ,\tary·'s otl'icl', locatl'd on tht· third noor of Haggar Collegl' Center, acn:pts da"itit:ds from 12:50 p.m. until -~p.m .. Mon· day though Friday. Dt'adlinc l<•r nt·xt-day da"ifinb is -~ p.m. All da"ifit'ds must he prepaid. eitht·r in p.-rson or hy mail.< :hargl' is I 0 t't'nts p.-r five t·harac



Classifieds 
ters er dav. 

NOTICES 
FOR A GIFT THAT IS UNIQUE, SEND A BELLY GRAM TO YOUR SHIEK! 272· 1858 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8997 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
PRO. TYPE Computenzed typing service 
2n-5833 
WOADPROCESSING AND TYPING 272-6827 
....................... 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
Professional Typing 
Tina 232-8749 
PROFESSIONAL TYPING: CALL TINA 
232-8749 
rida needed 10 Ph118. area tor spring break,calf 1213 ask for Bob 
WORDPROCESSING 
277-41045 
..................../ ........................................... 
aevelander's: The "Social Gathering"lor Feb. 21 is moved to Mar. 8. It is at the same addr-. PLEASE COME! 
PROFESSIONAL TYPING: CALL TINA 
232.-r4e 
DEBBIE-DO I REALLY LOOK THAT MUCH LIIIE A PANCAKE? WHO'S GOINGTOCLEANTHETUBANYWAY? 
PROFESSIONAL TYPING: CALL TINA 
~411 

LOST/FOUND 
FOUND: A set of car keys on a turquoose and blacl< key chain on the lot between Wafa/1 and Sorin on Sunday Feb. 17, 1985. To dUn call Beth at 2978. 
lost: Double-strand gokf bracelet at the Amencana last Fnday night Special sen­timenlal value. II found, please call Kathy at284-4188. 
LOST: One very small ladies' gokf Saiko watch. in South Dining Hall before Christmas break. I know it was a long long ~me ago, and you're probably used to ~ng it by now. but~ you have a heart, I'd like it back, with no quaetions asked. axcept maybe "How did you get that lit1fe tiny watch to fit your wrial?" (You see. I have • very smell wrist and it only fits me). Thanks, I'd appreciate it. Youra in NOire Dame, Kathy (3747). 
DANGER: 6 fool b1ac1< scarf lost at ACC skahng area last Friday is known to strangle unfamiliar necks. Please return to Marl<, 3828. 
I LOST MY BB TICKET AT THAT TER· RIBLE GAME AGAINST LOYOLA. SEC· TION 3 ROW 2. IF YOU FOUND IT PLEASE CALL JACK AT 1670. MY NAME IS ON IT. PLEASE, I AM A SENIOR AND THIS IS MY LAST CHANCE TO SEE OUR TEAM DO WELL. 
Lost: patr of gokf wtre framed glasses in black case. Name and STOP Number on case. REWARD if found. Please call Man 2465. 
REWARD' $50.00 offered tor brown Sampsomte hard suttcase Luggage tag says Douglas Snell. Call John on days or dtspatcher evenmgs at Umted Limo PLEASE. 674-6993 or 255-3068 
LOST: SET OF KEYS WITH ROOM KEYS, CAR KEYS. AND HOME KEY (GREEN PLASTIC CLAD). IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL MO. 3624. 
HELP!!!! I lost a large nnestone old· tashtoned clip somewhere at the JPW cocktail dance on Fnday: much,much sentimental value'!!! If found, or know ol tts whereabouts call Linda at 277-6856. 
I Did it agatn1I lost my ID and lhat green little wallet that comes wtth it. I have no 
•dentity without it. It you find il PLEASE call Kathy at 1296. Thank you. 
lost: Double-slrand gold bracelet at the Americana last F nday night. Special sen­timental value. It found, please call Kathy ai284-4188.} 
..................... 

FOUND: One woman's thin brown leather 
glove outside of LeMans. call284-4068 to 
claim. 
SOUTH BEND WINTER COLD GOT YOU DOWN? TELL ME ABOUT IT·AT LEAST YOU HAVE A JACKET-BUT ONE OF YOU LUCKY PEOPLE HAS TWO AND ONE OF THEM'S MINE' WHOEVER INTENTIONALLY OR INAD· VERTENTL Y TOOK MY WHITE ESPIRIT JACKET FROM SENIOR BAR PLEASE RETURN IT TO THE LEMANS HALL LOST AND FOUND-NO QUESTIONS ASKED.(WHITE FLANNEL WITH SHEEP FUR COLLAR) 
LOST· ca....,.fluh On the cross country course back by the cernetary. It found please call 284-5186. Reward: 1 six peck. 
To whomever look my Ralph Lauren jean jacket from senior bar: Since my license was in the pocket you obviously know who It belongs 10. I'll pay to get it back, but ~ you really need a jacket that badty, could you at least mail my license back to me? You have my name and my campus ad· dress is in the book (SMC). 
LOST: PAIR OF BROWN LEATHER GLOVES IN ROOM 223 HAYE5-HEAL Y WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON (2/20/85). CALl BRIAN ] 239--7276 AND LEAVE MESSAGE. REWARD$$. 
LOST: Navy blue doll, N.D. mascot. last seen after P.W./LEWIS intra mural bball game. Gym 4, ACC, Tuesday. Feb 19. Much senhmenlal value. she was a b<rthday present. Please call Barb at 
4238. 
FOUND: Cross pen imbedded in snow between B.P. and Fartey identify pen and claim. 401 Farley. 
LOST-ONE BOTILE OF AUNT JEMIMA PANCAKE SYRUP. PLEASE RETURN. I DESPERATELLY NEED IT FOR WEEKEND ENTERTAINMENT­DEB81E 
Found: The Writer's Rhetoric and Hand­book in room 328: Comp/Math building. Call4069. 
lost: Double-strand gold bracelet at the Americana last Friday night. Special sen­timental value. If lound, please calf Kathy at284-4188. 
FOUND: One woman's thin brown leather glove outside of LeMans. call284-4068 to claim. 
SOUTH BEND WINTER COLD GOT YOU DOWN? TELL ME ABOUT IT-AT LEAST YOU HAVE A JACKET ·BUT ONE OF YOU LUCKY PEOPLE HAS TWO AND ONE OF THEM'S MINE! WHOEVER INTENTIONALLY OR INAD­VERTENTL Y TOOK MY WHITE ESPIRIT JACKET FROM SENIOR BAR PLEASE RETURN IT TO THE LEMANS HALL LOST AND FOUND-NO QUESTIONS ASKED.(WHITE FLANNEL WITH SHEEP FUR COLLAR) 
LOST· cam.,.. fluh On the cross country course back by the cernetary. It found please call 284·5186. Reward: 1 stx pack. 
To whomever took my Ralph Lauren jean Jacket from senior bar: Since my license was in the pocket you obviously know who it belongs to. I'll pay to get il back. but if you really need a jackal thai badly. could you at least mail my license back to me? You have my name and my campus ad· dress is in the book (SMC) 
RIDE TO NEWARK NEEDED. CAN LEAVE ANY TIME AFTER THURSDAY MORNING, MARCH 14. WILL SHARE USUAL. CALL MIKE AT x1745. 
Need riders to Kan..a City for Spring Break. Call Tom xt479 
Need a qualified PIANIST to give lessons to an NO student Call Rob 1076 
10 Part-time r-rchers wanted by Chicago publlahlng comp11ny. Have fun on c:~~mpua while earning money ...It c:~~n be dOM! can 312-266-4840 or write SARSAPARILLA, Ltd., 62 W. Huron, Chlcago,IL 60610. 
Riders needed to CLEVELAND. Leave 2/22 afternoon. return 2/24. Call Ron at 4256. 
Ride needed to ISU, Normal. IL on 3/1. Will share usual. Call Kathy 1296. 

FOR SALE 
................................ 
FOR SALE: GREAT PARTY CAR 1970 OLDS 98$400 X-1768 
DISKS GETTING FLOPPY? BASF 31/2" COMPUTER DISKS FOR YOUR MACIN­TOSH COME IN PLASTIC LIBRARY CASES. $35.25/10 ASK FOR DAVE X3049 
CHEAPER MAXELL XLII 90'S $24 FOR 10.1150 

TICKETS 
Help! Need two GA's for the Washington Basketball game. Call 3790 and ask tor 
Bob. 

HELP' Need 3 GA's or Student Tickets for the BVU Game. Will PAY BIG BUCKS!! PLEASE call Pete at 1170. 
SAN FRANCISCO FLIGHT SPRING BRK Highest offer-Tim 1187 
HELP!II My parents have never seen an NO bas· ketball game, and I'm about to graduate! It you have any available GA's tor a weel<end game, call Lorieat 2810-Today! (I'm a bit of a pup, so money is no object.) 
................................................................ 
NEED TWO GA OR STUDENT TICKETS FOR BYU GAME. CALL DON 1219 
................................................................. 
NEED 2 GAa for BYU game!! Call Lauren at3781. 
Need 3 B. Y .U. student tickets; call Miriam 4174 
SPRING BREAK IN FLORIDA? Have X· 
tra RT tix To MIAMI from CHI FOR ONLY 
$178.00!! call Chris or Dick at X2289. 
..................... ........................ 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR BYU OR WASH SO 
MOM AND DAD CAN SEE A GAME 
CALLLORIAT2810 
PARENTAL UNITS ARRIVING FRIDAY SELL ME BYU TIX, PLEASE !! CALL KAREN 277-6740 

PERSONALS 
PREGNANT? NEED HELP? CALL 234· 0363. 24 hour hotline/free pregnancy test available. WOMEN'S CARE CENTER 
BEST TIME-BEST VALUE: WHERE: DAYTONA BEACH!! WHEN: SPRING BREAK '85. WHO: ALL ND/SMC STU· DENTS. CALL 239--5136 OR STOP BY SENIOR CLASS OFFICE, 1.5 LAFORTUNE. MON-FRI, 6-9pm. 
RIDE TO NEWARK NEEDED. CAN LEAVE ANY TIME AFTER THURSDAY MORNING, MARCH 14. WILL SHARE USUAL. CALL MIKE AT x1745. 
Need riders to Kan..a City for Spring Break. Call Tom x1479 
MIKE SHRIVER, BOB HAMMERLEIN, and PAUL KUCERA start your weekend right Friday afternoons on WVFI -BEAT THE SOUTH BEND BLUES with WVFI! 
NEED A GREAT SATURDAY NIGHT? WVFI, the alternative, and CBS RECORDS present a Video Dance Party -Sat.. Feb. 23 at 9:00 in Chataqua. $1.00 per person, $1.50 per couple··· music, dancing, give-aways. WVFI AND CBS RECORDS BRING YOU SATUR· DAY NIGHT'S ALTERNATIVEI 
HEY JOEl ARE YOU EXPERIENCED? THE ONLY DJS THAT MATTER! ARE CALL PAT AT 3318 OR 3317 OR DON AT 3573 CLEAR THE PURPLE HAZE OF OTHER CAMPUS DJS FROM YOUR MIND AND MAKE YOUR NEXT PARTY OR SYR THE ONLY DANCE THAT MATTERS! 
HEY BRIG, HOW'S THE WEATHER? 
Wanting lo go on the SAB trip to Ft. Lauderdale but you don't have the cash! Call 283-3815 and lind out aboul a great discount! 
SPEND SATURDAY NIGHT DANCING WITM CBS RECORDS AND WVFl, THE ALTERNATIVE 
Get ready, Cart. your birthday is coming! 
I really really need 2 or 3 GA's to the March 3rd Washington game Christine (SMC)4064 
ATTENTION All members of Notre Dame's 1985 Microbiology Mwkellng Club Our gala annual petri dish sale will begin soon! Watch this space lor details. 
POST GRADUATE VOLUNTEER OP· PORTUNITY -A representative lrom the DOMINICAN APOSTOLIC PROGRAM will be available in the LIBRARY CON· COURSE on Friday, February 22 lrom 10 AM lo 4 PM to consult with students inter­ested in giving e year of service in the USA. Contact the Canter lor Social Con­cerns (239-5293) lor information. 
HUNGRY? FREE DELIVERY CALL THE YELLOW SUB 272-4453 MO-TH 8·11pm FR·SA8pm-1am 
-r-;;~i-~'id·;;;i·-;;;;y·t:~iN.cooEii 
VOLUNTEERS: This is a big weel<end for the kids. Friday night, we have our first dance of the semester: • SQUARE DANCE from 7:30 to 10 pm. Saturday morning will be the beginning of a new tradition as we have CARNIVAL REC. VOLUNTEERS are NEEDED lor bolh events. If you've never been to Logan Center but always wanted to go, now I• your ch•nce. See you there this weekend. 
Volunt..a: Elementary & high school teachers and studenl supervisors are needed to work in the Catholic Missionary Diocese of Prince George, B.C .. Canada. We ask, if possible, a 2-year commitment. Room, board, medical coverage and stipend are provided. For more informa­tion, please contact: Frontier Apostolate. 
P.O. Box 7000, Prince George, British Columbia, V2N 3Z2PM 
"Success is a journey, nola destinalion." Donald Keough, President of Coca-Cola 
i wish that they would stop having big events on the weekends -i've got to cut my nails. 

ONCE UPON A TIME IN FAR AWAY 
DOMERLAND THERE WAS AN INSTI­
TUTION CALLED FREE UNIVERSITY. 
Free Umversity leatured several lun 
classes to which few people went. You 
see, people lhoughl that anything that 
was free could not be loo tun. RealiZing 
that the attendance problem resulted from 
Free University's name. the STUDENT 
ACTIVITIES BOARD changed the name 
to CHEAP THRILLS UNIVERSITY!!! 
Once the name was changed, lhe people 
realized the lremendous enjoyment that 
could be obtained from attending CHEAP 
THRILLS UNIVERSITY. Cheap Thrills 
University sponsors tons of fun classes: 
Aerobics, Photography, Hula, Auto Mec· 
hanics. Computers. Bartending. Invest· 
ments, Self Assertion, Job lntertview 
Skills Career Planning, Conditioning. and 
many more. Sign ups are Monday, Feb. 
25 in the La Fortune Ballroom al7-9pm. 
NOTRE DAME IN THE MORNING: MATI BURCHAELL AND THE SMELL OF ETHANOL. 
HELP!!!! I'm searching for a large rinestone old-lashioned clip that I lost at the JPW cocktail dance • It's got much sentimental value! If you've seen it, call Linda at 277-6856. 
I really really need 2 or 3 GA's to the March 3rd Washington game Christine (SMC)4064 
RIDERS NEEDED: For spring break to Central Florida. Call284·5480. 
ANN GAERTNER • SMC's best sprinter. We all know you made Nationals but mistakes are made. your Buddies 
SKATIE AND SCARY: Only 21 days til and 50 yards from the beach !Happy Friday' Mo 
MA & KATIE: Tal<eriskandgofor it' I'll do thesame!Mo 
I'll thrash you three times over. 
The Schwerha •s on the loose' 
HEY WURPS!! Welcome back to my world. Happy 21sl Birthday!! Let's go crazy! L011eya, TJH 
Vic (U hairstylist): tree and desire change? Tivolli's Sat. night may ba solu­tion. Remember, before midnight cin­derella. 
WELCOME "HOME" JENNIFER CONRAD' PERHAPS YOUR BOTTOM BUNK ISNT WAITING BUT THE COUCH IS. HOPE THIS WEEKEND PASSES IN A CLOUD OF BLISS AND OBLIVION. WE LOVE YOU, SANDY AND MAUREEN P.S. YOU FINALLY GOT YOUR PERSONAL! 
ATTN MATT DONAHER: I noticed you at JPW last weel<end-·1 saw you everywhere I --.t! I want you to know I'm interlllted and you will be hearing from me again. Keep watching the personals ... 
''''''.1'''''"'''''''''""''"''"'''''"''''"''''"'''"''''' It's nice to remember special events. This Sunday is the anniversary of one such event, isn't It Marce? The PARTY PATIO will never be the same-nor will the PANGBORN WALL' So Happy Anniver· sary! What sweet memories ... 
ATTENTION BLUE LIGHT SHOPPERS! YOUR TIME IS UP-ZERO SHOPPING DAYS LEFT. TODAY IS THE DAY­YOUR LAST CHANCE TO WISH MR. PARTY HIMSELF, MIKE BOLGER, A HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY. 
BOLGE-GET HEATED! ENJOY YOUR BIG DAY1 FROM THE GUYS P.S.· GOODGAME' 
5 GIRLS AT N.D.-SORRY ABOUT THE 
S.Y.R. 
AT DILLON. ROOMATES WERE PLAYING AN ALL TO CRUEL JOKE. PLEASE ACCEPT MY APPOLOGIES. 

N. 
CAMPBELL 


MARY COLE, SMC's most lalenled and most beautiful female, is 20 today' Happy b-day wtth love. Bruce. 
...........................................•. HEY MIKE. GUESS WHAT YOU GET FOR $2.000? YOU KNOW WHAT, YOU GET EVERYTHING• YOU ALSO GET A PLANE TICKET. AND YOU KNOW WHAT? YOU CAN USE IT ANYTIME' murmur...MURMUR....HAPPY BIRTHDAY! ROB 
U. RJTI It's Lent so I'll be mce and let you know I think you're much more lhan acceptable wilh those gorgeous green eyes, that beautiful nose. and espeCially thai cute hair! T onighl should be fun..l'll be good if you'll be nice. Hugs and Ktsses (Is it ok on 
paper?) .......... .,., .... _Your tavortte brat PPMMHHHII 
Why are all the girls after Jim Glennon?! 

BENDO'S PARTY TONIGHT. IS ANNE BAILEY P? DOES SHE NEED HELP? 
ALL OF MANKIND WAS DEBASED WHEN THEY, THOSE SMUG COUGARS FROM BYU, WON A NATL. FOOTBALL TITLE. BUT THIS IS BAS­KETBALL, THIS IS BIG. IT'S ALSO PER· SONAL. YOU CANT JUST SEND ME HOME TO THEM KNOWING WE HAVE LOST. PLEASE DIGGER AND ALL OF YOU: DEFEND THE FAITH. NUKE BYU· THANKSJLD 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, BERNADETTE SUPLIK!!I HOW DOES IT FEEL TO BE 20? WE HAVE IT ON GOOD AUTHOR­ITY THAT 20 YEAR OLDS HAVE OVER· ACTIVE HORMONES... IN THE INTEREST OF SCIENCE. WE'VE INVITED ALL ELIGABLE NOTRE DAME MEN TO COME TO ROOM 204 LYONS HALL AND FIND OUT. WILL BERN DO SOUTH QUAD? LOVE ALL YOUR FRIENDS IN 204 AND 208 . 
Yes. there will be a Wash DC Spring Break bus' Sign-ups will be March 4th ­more info later 
HI MOM! HI DAD! IT'S YOUR VERY OWN "SPW". HAVE FUN, FUN, FUN I L011e & Kisses -K. 
KATHY, IS THIS ANY WAY TO TREAT YOUR FAN?ONL Y 3 GAMES LEFT,CAN'T YOU MOVE? 
ANNE BRING BACK JUNGLE LOVE. KEEP ON SHAKING BABY. YOUR FAN 
KITTY·YOU'RE INSPIRING! KEEP UP THE GOOD WORK FOX! 
HEY RILEY COYOTE!! HAPPY 21, TAKE IT EASY! I GUESS WHO? 
MICKEY RELAY, HOPE YOU GAK YOUR BRAINS OUT!! HAPPY BDAY. DAN 
RILES, STOP BELCHING AND BOOPING AND GROW UP YOU 21 YR OLD BAG. ENJOY YOU 'MO' OF THE 'HO' PERSUASION! AND GET RID OF THOSE COTIAGE CHEESE CHEEKS!!' BILL 
.................................... 
YO T, OON'TCHA WANNABE MY CON­CUBINE? BILL 
HBD, Mike Alley. Remember. you only have so many brain celts. Save a ,_ so you can get home tonight. 
MARY,MARY,MARY,TERRY AND TRICIA, Thanks for answering the phone,helping with everything and putting up with me.JPW wouldn't have made it without you! L011e, The other Mary 
BETH LOEBEL We're ready lo celebrate your legality all weekend. Happy 21st birthday Love ya tons! 
......................................... 
I really really need 2 or 3 GA's to the March 3rd Washington game Christine (SMC)4064 
RIDERS NEEDED: For spring break lo Central Florida. Call284-5480. 
ANN GAERTNER -SMC's best sprinter. We all know you made Nationals but mistakes are made. your Buddtes 
SKATIE AND SCARY: Only 21 days til and 50 yards from lhe beach I Happy Friday• Mo 
MA & KATIE: Take rtsk and go tor il! I'll do thesame!Mo 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY SPROUTI!! WE'LL ALL HAVE TO CELEBRATE WITH SOME TEQUILA AND GRAPE KOOL AID' LIVE IT UP!-H & K 

r--------------------------------------------------------------------­
Sports Briefs 
The Notre Datnejudo Club will be meeting on 
Sunday in room 219 of the Rockne Memorial Building. · The Obseroer 
Stepan Center's basketball courts will 
remain open on Friday nights until 11:30, Paul Matwiy, assistant director of student activities, announced. The extended schedule is on a trial basis. If students do not utilize the courts on Friday nights, then Stepan will return to its previous closing time of 10 p.m.-The Obsen'er 
A snow softball tournatnent is being held by 
the ND Millions Against MS Committee the weekend of March 1-3. The entry fee for teams of five men and five women is $1 0, which goes to MS. Prizes will be awarded to the winning team. Anyone who is interested may sign up on Tuesday from 3:30p.m. to 5:30p.m. in the Lafortune lobby. For more information, call Steve at 283-1045 orJeff at 283·1 049. -The Obsen1er 
Men 
continuedfrom page 16 
derson is likely to start junior Chris Nikchevich (6.4 ppg.) in the shoot­ing guard slot alongside playmaker Marty Perry, a deft passer who leads the team with 95 assists. 
The Cougar guards will have their hands full, though, now that the Irish backcoun is at full strength. Fresh­man David Rivers now has his full complement of racing partners in Scott Hicks, Dan Duff, and Joseph Price, and that's a fact which pleases Phelps. 
"We got our three-guard rotation (Rivers, Hicks, and Duff) going against Fordham, and that's why Rivers was so much more effective," 
Friday, February 22, 1985 ­
notes Phelps. "Now we can concen· trate on getting the ball to Rivers and letting him go, knowing that we can give him a rest when he needs it." 
Rivers has shown he knows what to do with the ball when he gets it, pumping in 14.6 points a game while leading the team in assists. Still, his play is obviously enhanced by the presence of some backcourt help, primarily Hicks, who scores at a 9.0 ppg. clip. 
The closest matchup will be in the front line, where a young BYU con­tingent will match up with the vet· eran Irish frontcourt. The Cougars will be looking for help for Saarelalnen from 6-9 forward Alan Pollard and 6-10 center Tom Gneit­ing. Pollard, a freshman, has been a pleasant surprise on the inside, net· ting eight points a game while hauling down nearly seven 
also has held his own with a scoring and 
Meanwhile, the Irish 

16.0 ppg. scoring clip. He won't be alone, though, as forwards Donald Royal (7.8 ppg, 5.0 rpg.) and Jim Dolan ( 4.5 ppg.), as well as center Tim Kempton (7.2 ppg., 5.0 rpg.) have started to gel. 
"Our front line is in a groove now," comments Phelps. "They're complementing our backcourt well, and we've found the seven guys we'll live and die with." 
Phelps hopes that his Irish and their tournament hopes will do more living than dying tomorrow. 


--------------------------~-----·------------------------~-------------------------, 

The Observer Friday, February 22, 1985 -page 11 
"Janice Streit is an effective player," said DiStanislao. "She is a big, bulky kid who takes up a lot of space in the lane. I think she also will make a difference." 
The Irish, meanwhile, should be rested and up to the challenge. They are playing staunch defense, holding their opposition to only 59.6 points per game. Furthermore, Irish for­ward Trena Keys is comingoffone of her best games of her career, a 28­point performance against Loyola. 
"Basically," says DiStanislao, "We're playing well, but DePaul is still going to be a real challenge. They play an up-tempo offense, but they are quite strong inside as well. They are a deceptive team, and it's going to take a good game to beat them." 
Ifthe Irish continue to play as they' have of late, they should be able to play that good game against the Blue Demons. 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Thursday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Briefs must be clearly written. -The Observer 
Junior sprinter 
Nobles sparks indoor track team 
ByMIKE SZ\'MANSKI ment to be good, to do everything relay of Paul Duvair, Nick Sparks, Sports Writer that it takes," Irish head coach Joe John Dadamio and Rick Mulvey, Plane said. which qualified with 7:44 at the 
As the members of the Notre Despite his marked improvement, CCC's, will be one of the few all­Dame men's track team aim toward Kelly said he feels that Nobles must freshman relays at the IC4As. the climax of the indoor season, the perform well at the IC4As to prove Plane looks for his cross-country IC4As, they are looking for runners, to himself that he can run with the runners to perform well on the such as Robert Nobles, to improve best runners. track. Tim Cannon, although their solid performances. 
injured, placed second at the 
Nobles, a 6-4 junior from Baton Overall, Plane said he likes what Indiana Intercollegiate two-mile Rouge, La., qualified with a l:ll.OI he has seen this indoor season. run. Dan Garrett and Mike Collins, in the 600-yard run for the IC4As last James Patterson has broken school also are showing promise, according 
week at the Central Collegiate records in the long jump and the to Piane. Bill Courtney has been run­Championships. triple jump, while Uyod Constable ning his best ever, with two personal 
"Noble's turning point came at has qualified for the NCAA cham­records of 4: I I in the mile and 9: I 5 the Indiana Intercollegate Meet pionships in the high jump. Chris in the two mile. where he overcame his lack ofconfi­Matteo has pole vaulted 15-3, and dence," according to Irish coach Ed Joel Autry and Gary LeKander have "Although the indoor season is Kelly. ''He ran well in three events improved in the triple jump. not the end," said Kelly, "we have 
showing competitive toughness." Mitch Van Eyken, Van Pearcy and definitely made the IC4As a point to 
After a mediocre freshman year, Nobles have led the Irish sprinting build toward and to peak at. Good and inelligibility sophomore year, core in qualifying for the IC4As performances now will carry over to Nobles worked hard over the sum­while fellow sprinter Dan Shannon outdoors, where times naturally are mer and came into indoor season in still is running with a slight injury. faster." fine shape. He then continued to im­The middle-distance crew, led by With runners such as Nobles, the 
prove. John McNelis and Jeff Van Wie has Irish may be headed toward a high"He made the internal committ-been very impressive. The two-mile peak, indeed. 

Women 
continuedfrom page 16 
Morgan, 5-1 0 senior forward Mary Lou O'Brien, who averages 6. 7 ppg. and 6.3 rpg., and, most likely, 6-2 freshman forward Lorilei Watts who hurt the Irish in their last meeting by scoring 9 points and pulling down 
"Tracy Manuel and Lorilei Watts have been playing really well for them," said the fifth-year Irish men­tor. "They are both very strong inside players. In fact, it was DePaul's inside game which beat us. We got very few offensive rebounds at the critical moments. Those two played very well." 
When first-year DePaul coach Jim Izard wants help from the bench, he usually gets it from 6-0 freshman center Janice Streit ( 11.9 ppg., 5.5 rpg.) and 5-5 junior guard Awanda Mitchell. 
MONDAY ONLY! 





54o/o Off 
Ayres Flore_ntini Collection of Cultured Pearls and Freshwater Pearls 

Sale 7.82 to 1,020.00, regularly 17.(10 to 2,219.00. Rich, lustrous pearls. • 
Beautifully presented in 16" to 30" knotted strands on silk threads with 14K gold clasps, in 4mm to 7mm round, baroque and fre~hwater pearls. Matching earrings and bracelets are also available in this remarkable collection in Better Jewelry, Scottsdale Mall and University Park. 
EXTRA SPECIAL VALUES! WHILE QUANTITIES LAST! 6mm Pearl stud pierced earrings, regularly 46.00, sale 13.99 Freshwater pearl .bracelet with 14K gold beads, regularly 30.00, sale 9.99 Freshwater pearl 16" necklace with 14K gold beads, regularly 50.00, sale 19.99 6mm Round pearl 16" necklace, regularly 400.00, sale 159.99 
No mail or phone orders for this sale. 

Shop Ayres Scottsdale Mall and University Park Monday, 10:00 to 9:00. 

Saint Mary's basketball upset in home game 
By PAM CUSICK 
Sports Writer 
Playing its final home game of the season, the Saint Mary's basketball team had hoped for somethingother than the upset that Purdue University-Calumet handed it by a 67-44 margin last night at the Angela Athletic Facility. 
The Belles had just rebounded from a loss to Valparaiso University Wednesday night, 63·50. They now look fotward to tomorrow after· noon's showdown with the Univer· sity of Michigan-Dearborn for an on-the-road opponunity to improve its current 4-13 season record. 
The Lady Lakers ofPurdue moved to an early lead on the impressive performance of freshman forward LeeAnn De Young last night. The 6·0 forward dominated play on both ends of the coun, and Purdue went on intimidating the Belles with its fierce defense and inside play to build a 34·21 halftime advantage. 
The Belles were plagued by poor shooting from the field, hitting only 16 of their 62 shots for a percentage of .258, and they could not rally against the Lady Lakers. 
"Purdue intimidated us of· fensively and defensively. They gained control of the game from the beginning and we had no spun to cut into the margin," commented a disappointed head coach Marvin Wood after the game. "It was, percentage-wise, our worst shoot· ing game ofthe season." 
The top scorer was junior forward Beth Kreber with 16 points, while senior guard Teresa McGinnis, and senior forward Elaine Suess each contributed seven points to com· plete the Belles scoring perfor· mance. Kreber, McGinnis and Suess commited three fouls each. 
The Lady Lakers of Purdue were 

not the only threat to the Saint 
Mary's basketball team's record this 
week, as Valparaiso jumped ahead to 
steal another victory away Wednes­
day night. 
"They (the Crusaders) are a big, 

strong team. Their 2·2·I zone press 
got the ball inside," said Wood. 
"Defensively, they played well and 
had good balance throughout the 
game, shooting 17·I8 from the 
field." 
The Belles travel to Dearborn, 

Mich., tomorrow afternoon to take 
on the University of Michigan· 
Dearborn to try to shake off the ap· 
parent losingways that have plagued 
them recently. Game time is 2 p.m. 
The Observer Friday, February 22, 1985 -page 12 


Fencers 
continued/rom page 16 
national championship, however, 
we: have: to prove: it to ourselves and 
to our opposition." 
Tonight's match with the: Spartans should not provide: the: Irish with too great of a challenge:. Michigan State's individual fencers have all fal· 
lc:n upon bad luck as none have: rc:· corded a winning percentage: better than . '500. This, along with the: ap· pointment of a new head coach this season, has sidetracked a usually potent Spartan attack. 
"This team is not as competitive as other Michigan State: teams of the: past," said DeCicco. "We should be able to fence: all of our fencers and give our fourth, fifth, and sixth men a shot at monogramming for the season." 
Tomorrow, however, is a different story. The tournament will involve 14 different dual matches, six of which will include: the Irish. 
Opening the: action at 9 a.m. on the: center strip, the Irish will be facing Chicago. Against the: Maroons, the Irish are 37-8 lifetime:. On Feb. 9, in Detroit, the Irish faced Chicago and soundly defeated them, 24-3. 
At 10:30 a.m., the Irish wlll face the: Purdue: Boilermakers. Once again. as in the: Chicago match, DeCicco does not foresee any great difficulties. Against the: Boilers, the Irish have only lost twice in 29 out­ings. Last year, Notre Dame beat Purdue:, 23-4. 
As the Irish fence into the noontime hours, the action will pick up with Northwestern, Wisconsin, Illinois and Wayne: State providing four straight, solid challenges to the unbeaten Irish. 
Earlier in the: year, the: Irish travelled to Wayne, Mich., where they met and downed the defending national champions, Wayne State:, in their backyard by a I'i-12 margin. A meet schedulc:d with Illinois on Jan­uary 26 in Columbus, Ohio, was can­celled because: ofa blizzard. 
Of the four major challenges, Northwestern may prove to be the weakest if any can be considered as such. DeCicco, nc:verthc:less, is hoping that the scheduling of the Wildcats before the others will gradually build up his squad to a point at which they can meet per­haps the three best teams in the Mid­west. 
"They (the: Wildcats) are good in 
TYPING ·­
Term Papers Resumes Letters Manuscripts Word Processing 
Call Chris at: 
234-8997 

SAVE $5. 
lip this ad,postmark BY: Feb 27, only 12.95 & 1. postage DO YOU RUN 
with your 
"WALKMAN?" 
Sound-PAK is a zippered. Insulated. well-padded. canvas "PAK" w1th elasticized straps that hold your portable stereo securely to the top of your chest dunng all sports!! 
his stereos up to 4"x5" Blue. Red or Green AdJustable Send 51795 plusSl past to Sound-PAK. Box 66. Williston. VT 05495 

foil and excellent in epee," said DeCicco. "Against Northwestern, I'm hoping that we can really get serious. Wisconsin, Illinois and Wayne: State: are almost equal in size." 
Throughout their history, the: Irish have winning records against all of their opponents. Against the Wildcats, they are 19-4. Against the Badgers, 34-1 0, and against the Illini, they arc 29-12. Against the Tartans, they arc: 24-14. 
Meeting any major collegiate team always is a challenge for the Irish when one considers that the Irish fence without any scholarships. Nc:verthc:less, the highly regarded Irish will be looking forward to proving themsc:lves this weekend as the odds-on favorite to win their third national championship in seven years. 
Last year, after winning the Great Lakes Championship and going into the: NCAA tourney as the top-seeded team from the Midwest, the Irish stalled in the finals and wound up with a third-place finish. 

"I'm looking this weekend for our nine: starters who will be going to the Great Lakes Championships (March 2 at Notre Dame:)," said DeCicco. "If we sweep the six meets, then we could begin talking national championship. Even if we lose: one or two, we would still be a 'good' team." 
Startingfor the Irish in the foil will be junior captain Mike VanderVel­den ( 26-6), defending national foil champion Charles Higgs-Coulthard (24-1 ), and the oncoming junior Craig Funai ( I 5-6). 

In the: sabre, the Irish will go with senior captain MikeJanis ( 24-2), and juniors Don Johnson ( 18-'i) and John Edwards ( 14-4). Junior Tony Consoli ( 1 0-6) may or may not be available for action as he is suffering from a pulled stomach muscle:. 
In the epee, senior captain Andy' Quaroni ( 27-3) will anchor the Irish 

squad. Juniors Christian SChc:rpe ( 25-'i) and Mike Gostigian ( 8-2) will add depth as the Irish hope to get at, among others, Ettore Bianchi. Bianchi, a Wayne State: senior who won the national championship in the epee last year, always plays tough against the Irish. In their ear­lier meeting he was 3-0. 
Fencing alongside: the men will be the women's squad. At 9-4, the Irish are looking to beat some stiffcompe­tition and emerge as a true con­tender for one of three team spots for the NCAA tourney to be chosen from the Midwest. 
"In order for us to get there (the NCAAs) we're going to have to knock off an Ohio State or a Northwestern," Said DeCicco. "Wayne State will also certainly be one team up for the nationals also." 
As with the men, the women should be able to overcome the Spartan challenge tonight. Against Michigan State, they arc: 7-0. 
Tomorrow, the women will face some of the toughest competition in the Midwest. Keying the success for the Irish will be a concerted effort on the part of DeCicco's four starters. 
According to DeCicco, freshman Molly Sullivan ( 31-4) should anchor the squad reasonably well and has a good chance of going undefeated. Needing eight wins per match, DeCicco is looking for Sullivan to provide him with three to four of those: wins. The rest will have to come from junior captain Janet Sul­livan (23-20) and sophomores Vit­toria Quaroni (27-12) and Cindy Weeks (25-16). 
"Molly Sullivan will certainly be one of the individuals in the nation­als," said DeCicco. "Janet Sullivan, Vittoria Quaroni, and Cindy Weeks­one of those: girls is going to have to come through for us to win." 
In tomorrow's action the Irish will be: facing four teams against which they have winning records: 


PLAYth• 7-ELEVEN l:iAME! 
DurinCJ ND Wam•n'• 
Ba•k•tball Ciam•• N•HI:IJam•: Sun•• F•b.24 v•. D•Paul 2:00pm 
YOU CAN BE A WINNER. .JUST BY SHDWINI:i UP!! 
If the lri•h are ahead af their 
appanent by either •evenar 
el•ven paint• at halflim• ar 
at th• end af the l)am•. yau 
l)et a caupan far a ... 
FREE BICi CiULP 
Northwestern (6-3), Illinois ( 1-0 ), 
Purdue ( 14-0) and Chicago ( 1-0 ). 
Against Wisconsin and Wayne: State, however, they have: realized less success. Against Wayne State they have only one win against 14 losses. Against Wisconsin they are 2-8. Last year, though, they played the sixth best team in the NCAA tourney rea­sonably well. They lost their first meeting (8-8) on touches and their 



Scherpe 
continuedfrom page 16 
team," said DeCicco. " When he chose to come to Notre Dame, I was thrilled." 
This far into the season, Scherpe has compiled a 25-'i record and combines with senior Andy Quaroni to form possibly the most devastat­ing one-two epee punch in the country. 
Scherpe was born in Krefeld, West Germany, where he grew up fencing in an nation internationally recognized as a fencing power. 
He: compiled an impressive record fencing for two years at Cal State-Northridge. His outstanding personal record of 57-9 earned him all-American honors both as a fresh­man and a sophomore. Last year he finished tied for second in the nation in the epee division. 
Scherpe said he came to Notre Dame because: of its fencing pro­gram and its outstanding academic tradition. 
second meeting by two decissions (7-9). 
This weekend's actions should provide the: spectator with some: outstanding action for free admis­sion. The men will try to maintain a 20-game winning streak and the: wo­men will look to better their record beginning tonight in the ACC Fieldhouse at 7 p.m. and tomorrow at 9 a.m. 
"Ifyou get a degree from here, it's easier to get a good job," said Scherpe. "It (the: Irish fencing team) is one: of the superior teams in the country, and we should have a good chance to win the: national champi­onship in at least one of the: next three years." 
According to Scherpe, the key to winning the: title: will be the Great Lakes Championships next weekend where the Irish hope to qualify a maximum of two fencers in each weapon. 
"It (a national championship) depends upon how many people we: can qualify for the nationals at the Great Lakes next weekend," said Scherpe. "If we could qualify all six people -two in each weapon -then we should have a good chance to win it or at least finish in the top three:." 
For the present, Scherpe will have ample opportunity to expand upon his already good record and help the Irish continue on their unbeaten string this weekend. 
~~~ 
·~ 

HOFSTRA LAW SCHOOL 
SUMMER SESSIONS 1985 
SUMMER SESSION 1 May 20 to July 1 
COURSES CREDITS 
Commercial Paper 3 Conflicts of Law 3 Criminal Procedure 4 Debtor-Creditor 3 Evidence 4 Housing and Community 
Development Law and Psychiatry Real Estate Transactions Remedies Secured Transactions Unfair Trade Practices 

SUMMER SESSION 2 July 2 to August 12 
COURSES CREDITS 
Administrative Law 3 Commercial Transactions 
Survey 4 Family Law 3 Federal Estate and Gift Tax 3 Federal Income Taxation 
oflndividuals 4 Labor Law 3 Legal Issues in Public 
Education 3 

For Further Information Write or Call 
(516) 560-5916 




HOFSTRA 
UNIVERSITY 
SCHOOL OF LAW Hempstead. Long Island. New York 11550 
A Reminder that the Deadline for Nominating a Senior Student 
for the 

Distinguished StudentAward 
is 

Friday, Feb. 22 
Nomination forms are available in the Campus Ministry Office Memorial Library, the Center for Social Concerns or the Alumni Office (201 Admin. Bldg.) 

ie••••••••••••••••••• 
~Shopping, ~ ~ Dinner& ~ ~ Dancing~ 
iC in Chicago 11 ie 

iC iC 
~ Saturday, February 23rd ~ ~ $15.00/person iC 
iC Tickets available at the Record Store ~ iC """ 

ie••••••••••••••••••• 
FF======== coupon ============f! 

Pizza Hut·Delivers a Deal. 
For our friends at Notre Dame. 
Pizza Hut® is Rollin'Now! 
What could be better than tasty 

Hut<! pizza? How about Special Delivery'" and special savings! Pizza Hut is rolling now with free delivery-right to your door. Just call the number below and enjoy your Pizza Hut! pizza along with the special savings. 
HOURS: Friday and Saturday -4:00 pm -2:00 am thru Thursday-4:00pm-12:00 M 
limited Delivery Area Drivers corry no more than $20 

Free Delivery Call: 232·2499 





r----------------------------,
A 6-Topping Supreme Combination Pizza for a 1-Topping Price! 
Get a Pizza Hut' 6-topping Supreme in any size for the price of a 1-topping pizza in the same size. 
Please ment1on coupon when ordering. One coupon per party per del1very at participating Pizza Hut· Special Delivery'" umts. Not valid for dine-In or carry-out. or m combmat1on with any other Pizza Hut· offer. L1m1ted Del1very Area. Our dnve.·:, carry no more than $20. Offer good OI')IV on •eqular menu prices through 
___ Coupon exp~res March 8. 1985 Cash value u.::.u·. ·~O~ r <L~~ Hur. Inc. 
CALL: 232-2499 


~----------------------------~ 
I 

i 
Friday, February 22, 1985 -page 13 
I 
Second year 
SMC holds indoor soccer tourney 
ByDIANE PRESTI 
Sports Writer 

This weekend Saint Mary's Col­lege will play host to its second an· nual indoor soccer tournament. 
The teams returning from last year's tournament will be Michigan State University, Marquette Univer· sity, Indiana University, Northwes­tern University and Notre Dame. New to the tournament will be Eas­tern Illinois University and Hope College of Holland, Mich. 
The tournament is sponsored by the Saint Mary's Soccer Club and the Saint Mary's Athletic Department. 
Saint Mary's coach John Akers ex­plained why the College holds this tournament. 
"Saint Mary's has a good indoor facility, and women's soccer is growing in the area," Akers said. "Our club has grown to the point where it can compete with most Midwest schools." 
The action will begin tomorrow morning at 9:00 and continue through the day until 5 p.m. Play will pick up again at 9 a.m. Sunday and go until the championship game at 3 
p.m. There will be one match every 
hour on both days. The eight teams will be broken up into two divisions with Saint Mary's faired well. The Belles tied the Uni­playing Notre Dame, Hope and versity ofIllinois and Eastern Illinois Indiana. Marquette, Northwestern, and lost, 2-0, to a Nike-sponsored Eastern Illinois and Michigan State club in that tournament. will compete in the other bracket. Saint Mary's has only 11 players The winners ofthe two brackets will on it's team this season. Seven compete in the championshipgame. players compete at one time in in­
Coach Akers said he feels that if door soccer. the Belles can persistantly attack and The team has two freshmen, Hat­score, Saint Mary's can finish in field and defender Ann Marie second place in its division. Senior McGraw. Team leadership comes Katie Boldt agreed, saying, "If we from seniors Alma Fallon, Katie work well together we should be Boldt, liz Robison and Michele really strong." McNeill. Underclassmen Mary Beth 
Last weekend Saint Mary's played Proost, K.C. Chandler, Gloria a tournament at Northwestern Uni­Eleuteri, Mary Anne Perri and Sue versity, and with the help of fresh­Schier! make up the rest of the man goalie Patty Hatfield, the team roster. 
OT, at Anchorage. The Irish fell, 10­6, to Anchorage. Dearborn also took

Irish 

on Fairbanks on the same trip, but
continuedfrom page 16 

dropped both games, 7-1 and 8-5. 
club level, and are hoping to con­The Nanooks downed the Irish, 6-4. 
tinue their Notre Dame careers "Dearborn has a very fine team, 
pending acceptance into the Notre and next to Yale they are probably 
Dame MBA program. the best team we've played," said 
"I'm very hopeful that we'll have Smith. "I would like to think that both of them back," said Irish head we're a better team since we last coach Lefty Smith. "Getting our two played. The injury to Bob Thebeau top scorers back would be a real (shoulder injury in first game of se· boost to the program for next ries) also hurt us a lot. "It would season." be nice to close out the year on a 
In the last two seasons, Notre high note. It has been a turnaround Dame and Dearborn have met six year after getting hockey back to times, and the series is tied at three varsity, so we'd like to do well in or· wins each. The Irish won three of der to ensure the chances for Notre four encounters last season, but the Dame hockey in the future." Wolves took a pair of victories, 5-4 and 6-3, in two contests played at On the Irish depth chart, two Dearborn in early November of this defensemen are questionable for the season. final series. Ricci and freshman 
Dearborn is coming off of two Frank O'Brien are both nursing knee losses last weekend to Lake Superior injuries. State, a rising power in the CCHA. In goal, Smith has junior Marc 
Lake Superior blanked the Wolves, Guay penciled in as his starter for 
1 1·0, the first night, but in the series tonight's game. But he says that to· finale, Dearborn lost a close 4-3 morrow's starting job is still up for decision. grabs. 
"Our goalie, Chuck Irwin, had a After a resounding debut for var­super game," said Dearborn Sports sity hockey back in November, the 
Information Director Jim Dufresne. season moved along in a somewhat "He made 44 saves, some of which rocky fashion; and nowwith just two came at very crucial times." games still to play, the Notre Dame 
In games against common oppo­hockey team would like to add to its nents, the Wolves took a pair ofwins present win string and bring the from Alaska-Anchorage, 5-4 and 2·1 season to a close in grand style. 
In Time For Your Formals 
Haircut Only--$8 or 2 for $15 if you bring a fri&nd. 
t:: 
0 0..
::;, 0 
(.) 
Walk-ins Welcome Offer ends 3-2-85 

Corner of Ironwood and Edisor. 
234-6767 

coupon =========:::il 

ski areas. 
~ 


------~----~~-~ 
The Observer Friday, February 22, 1985 -page 14 


21 years at ND 

Jack Lloyd makes ACC exciting 
ByJEFF BLUMB 
Assistant Sports Edttor 
Tim Kempton goes up for the of­
fensive rebound and comes down 
with the ball. But before he can go 
back up with a shot, he is fouled. And 
because Notre Damejs in the bonus, 
Kempton steps to the free throw line 
and readies himself to shoot. 
"At the line for the Irish," comes 
the call from ACC Public Address 
Announcer John 'Jack' Uoyd, "Tim 
Kempwn shooting one and..." 
"The bonus," the student section 
finishes the sentence in chorus. 
Most students, though, know very 
little about Uoyd, the man behind 
the microphone at Notre Dame bas­
ketball games for the last 21 years. 
Following part-time work as a radio play-by-play announcer of high school football and basketball games, Uoyd started doing public address for Notre Dame basketball in '1964, the year John Dee became head coach of the Irish. The two had become acquainted in 19'51, when Dee was a Notre Dame assistant coach and Uoyd was allowed to do some traveling with the team be­cause his father was a good friend of John jordan, head coach at the time. 
When De~ returned to the Univer­sity to assume head coaching re­sponsibilities, he asked Uoyd to be the announcer at home games, which then were held at the now­gone Notre Dame Fieldhouse. The Irish moved over to the brand-new Athletic and Convocation Center in 1968, and Uoyd moved with them. 
A 19'58 Notre Dame graduate, Uoyd has had his moments in 21 years of announcing the names of some of college basketball's finest players. 
"You don't change a mistake once you've made it," says Uoyd. "My best faux pas of all time was in 1971 when we had the first round of the NC..AA Mideast Regional here. AI McGuire was here with Marquette and his son Allie was playing for him. 
"Love Story was the big movie at the time. Allie had come out of the game and later reported back to the scorer. As he was going back into the game, I said, 'Returning to the Mar­quette line-up, Ali McGraw. 
"I didn't realize that I had said it, and I heard the section full of Mar­quette students hootin' and hollerin' and wondered what was going on. After the game, a doctor from South Bend came up and told me. I didn't realize It until he told me." 
At the same time, Uoyd also has had a lot offun with names. 
"The name that was the most fun to work with," he says," was prob­ably Orlando Woolridge because it could be dra~ed out. It started out as simply Orlando Woolridge, and then over a period of time I started dragging it out. As he got to his senior year. I was really dragging it out. 
"I also had a lot of fun with Kelly Tripucka's name. People always told me that it sounded like I was getting sick to my stomach when I said it. 
"I've done other people's names in different ways," continues Uoyd. ''I'll look at a name and say, 'Is there 
something I can do,' and then some­
thing normally happens, and it's 
spontaneous at the time it happens. 
The John Paxson thing was one of 
those spontaneous type things and it 
happened in his junior year. All of a 
sudden, and I don't know what 
prompted me to do it, but it just hit 
me to put a 'He's' in front of every.­
thing I said for him, and it caught 
on." 
The names ofpresent Notre Dame 

players present a problem for lloyd ­
they aren't any fun. 
"The honest truth is," he says, "is 

that today there aren't really any fun 
names to do things with. I guess, if 
any of them, it would be Barlow. 
There's not a lot ofthings you can do 
with it, but it's a two-syllable name 
and the last syllable is low, so I just 
drop my inflection. 
"But other than that, we really don't have anybody right now that has a name you can really play with. I've been trying to think of some­thing for David Rivers, and I'm sure that by the time he's a senior some­thing will happen." 
A first for Uoyd came about this year. The students have become in­volved in something that he does, finishing the sentence for him whenever he announces that a player is shooting the one-and-one. 
"It's interesting, but for probably 14 or I'5 years, this is something I've been trying to do," Uoyd comments. "And this year is the first year that they've ever done it, picking up 'the bonus.' I have no idea how the stu­dents picked that up. 
"I can't recall which game it was, but I did 'one and' and said 'the bonus,' and as I said it I heard the students do it. I thought, 'Arc they picking this up?' The second time I did it they did it again, and I thought, 'They are picking it up.' The third time, I quit saying 'bonus' and realized they were into it, and they've done it ever since." 
Uoyd was born in Michigan City but has lived in South Bend all ofhis life. The owner of his own business, Uoyd Insurance Agency, he also has been the football press box announ­cer since 1965, in addition to volun­teering his time to announce the semifinals and finals of the Bookstore Basketball tournament, where he is at his humorous best. 
The father of five children, Uoyd realizes that his responsibilities as public address announcer at the ACC go beyond simply reciting names, numbers and personal fouls. 
"It's definitely part of my job to create excitement," he says. "In an arena like the ACC, with the people so close to the floor, I think it's part of the program that you can get the students and fans into the game more by something you do." 
Uoyd may be required to do a lot of talking while selling insurance during the day, but don't think h~ doesn't enjoy the talking he does over at the ACC in his spare time. 
"The thing I really enjoy about my job is being around young people," Uoyd says. "I think being around young people, and seeing the things that go on at a university or college, helps you to think and be young yourself. 
"In addition, it's a release from the things that I do all day long. You know, you go to work and you're un­der pressure all day at work. It's a relaxation, and everybody has differ­ent forms ofrelaxation. I guess this is mine." 
It may be true that Uoyd enjoys being around young people at the games, but it is probably more true that young people enjoy being around Uoyd. His unique way ofan­nouncing not only makes the game more exciting, but also makes a Notre Dame basketball game more than just a basketball game. 
~·*****************************.
~  '  
~ tt  THE BLACK CULTURAL ARTS FESTIVAL  ~ t t  
~  TALENT SHOW  ~  
~  ~  
~  ~  

~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ takes place tomorrow, at 7:00pm, in the t 
"l' LIBRARY AUDITORIUM
t Don't miss the year's most memorable eventl t 
****************************** 


UNITED TELEPHONE SYSTEM 
You might know us by many names and in many industries. Local telephone Companies. Intercity networks services. Cellular mobile telephone and paging systems. Video con­ferences. Computer graphics products. Security and alarm monitoring systems. Data transmission networks. 
All of these leading edge communications capabilities are part of our parent organization UNITED TELECOM_ And we are as important an aspect of the overall picture as any mentioned above. 
We are UNITED TELEPHONE SYSTEM. We can offer you exciting opportunities in Accounting, in the rapidly changing tele~ communications industry. 
If you want to enjoy all the advantages our unique per­spective can offer, we invite your inquiry into the opportun~ ities available. 
We have rescheduled our visit to Notre Dame for Tuesday, March 12, 1985. Sign-ups are currently available in the Career and Placements office in the Memorial Library. 
NBA Standings 
Eaatern Conference 
Atlantic Dlvlalon 
w L Pet. GB Boston 44 12 .766 Philadelphia 43 12 .762 .5 Washtngton 29 27 .518 15 New Jersey 27 26 .491 16.5 New York 16 37 .327 25.5 
Central Dlvlelon Milwaukee 39 17 .696 Detr01t 32 23 .562 6.5 Weatern Conference Chicago 25 28 .472 12.5 
Mid-IDlvlalon

Atlanta 24 31 .436 14.5 
w L Pet. GB

Cleveland 19 36 .345 19.5 21 .5 Denver 35 20 ~636
Indiana 17 38 .309 
Houston 32 22 .593 2.5 Dallas 30 25 545 5 san Antonio 27 28 .491 8 Utah 26 29 .473 9 Kansas City 18 37 .327 17 

Pacific Dlvlalon L.A. lakers 40 16 .714 Laat Nlght'a Reauft 
Phoenix 27 29 .482 t3 Portland 25 30 .455 14.5 

LA Lakers 123, Kansas City 1 17 SeaHie 23 32 .418 16.5 l.A~ Clippers 22 34 .393 18 Golden State 12 34 .261 23 



LIVE AT THE NAZZ TONIGHT AND TOMORROWNIGHT 
basement of LaFortune 



Zeto 
The Far Side 
ACROSS 36 Wanderer 63 Stan's partner 10 Psycho 1 Tiny spots 38 Thumb or Brown 64 Mine finds relative 65 Russ. villages 
5 Insolence 39 Series of 11 Tightly linked 
66 Flashy signs10 Barge's 
rooms 12 That hurts! 
67 AJanerelative 41 Priest's 
13 ~'lightless bird

14 Beige garment 
18 Auctioneer's court 42 Building beams word 44 End of mob 
15 Of a royal 
16 Inkling 23 Celebrities 
17 In a-(soon) or lob DOWN 25 Art style
Madras19 Pawn 45 Bumbershoots 
20 -de Triomphe for shade official 26 Tropical trees 21 Words of 2 Earthy pigment 28 Bumpkins
47 Relative of 3 Very short 29 Part of A.M.
distress 
29D time
22 Cook of film 49 As directed 30 Vaticinator 
24 Heckles 50 More shabby 4 Have a bite 31 Easy thing 26 Esteem highly 54 Poetess Wylie 5 Used a tub 32 "Whatever ­27 Tot up 56 Hector Hugh 6 Spoils wants" 28 Rocket Munro 
33 Exaggerate7 Counter-tenorlaunchers 57 Victory sign 34 Like a twice­8 -'em! 9 Symphonic 31 Coaster 58 Nitwit told tale 34 Lawman 59 Corner 37 Place to danceoffering35 Comp. pt. 62 --deucv 56 WWIItown 48 Control 

60 Rubber tree 50 Shiny fabric . 61 Garden tool 51 -tower 
Yesterday's Solution 







•EDNAIBELIA LAMA S N 0 0 P 0 T 
I S A G A L 

IDEA.INA 
VERSO -TALE 
• 1 
r r , "iTt'•'v s 
C HER­AS 
T I ME PREIS SIERS STROM.HOER-DAY KIE 

R S E L S -A 
N T E .11 E N E T 

D E T R A~R I NIS E S 
-ARTY DUET­
SCANT TAT.UVEA 
THEKEYTOTiEC I TV 
A A R E E S T 
E S K A T E TROD NEER PYLE. 
Kevin Walsh 
Gary Larson 


~ --~­
. -­
Campus 
Friday, Feb. 22 
•9 
a.m. -5 p.m. -Workshop, "Feminist Theory, State Polity, and Rural Women in Latin America," Room 234 CCE. 

•12:
15-1 p.m. -Faculty Forum, "Why Not a Cri­tique of Capitalism?" Drew Christiansen, SJ., Brown Bag or Soup and Bread, S 1, Center for Social Concerns. 

•5 
-7 p.m. -Spring Dance Concert Auditions, Regina Dance Studio, Saint Mary's. 

•6 
-8 p.m. -Discussion, "Shared Experiences of Latin American and U.S. Women," Room 131 Decio. 

•6-8 
p.m.-Reception, SMC Opening Art Exhibi­tion, Linda Plotkin, Etchings and Watercolors, Hammes Gallery. 

•7, 
9 & 11 p.m.-Fllm, "Purple Rain," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, Sl.50. 

•7 
p.m. -Fllm, "The Night Ever So Long," Sponsored by Chinese Student Association, library Auditorium. 

•7:30 
p.m. -Hockey, NO vs. Dearborn, ACC Fieldhouse. 

•7:30 
& 9:30 p.m. -Friday Night Fllm Series, "Liquid Sky," Annenberg Auditorium. 

•7:30-10 
p.m. -Square Dance, Logan Center, Sponsored by ND/SMC Council for the Retarded, Free. 

•8 
p.m. -Harpsichord Recital, SMC Little Theatre. 

Saturday, Feb. 23 

•8 
a.m.-3 p.m. -EducationalTesting Service Ex­amination, Engineering Auditorium. 

•8 
a.m.-6 p.m.-SoccerTournament, SMC Indoor Invitational, Angela Athletic Facility. 

•9 
a.m. -5 p.m. -Workshop, "Feminist Theory, 


© 1ll85 Tribune Medra Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 



------------------~~----·---------­
...-----------~--~ --~--~ 





s orts 
Notre Dame and BYU meet with NCAA tourney at stake 
By CHUCK FREEBY 
Sports Writer 
It has been said that every Catho­lic dreams ofgoing to Notre Dame. It has also been said that every Mor­mon yearns to go to Brigham Young University. Tomorrow, one Catho­lic, Digger Phelps, and one Mormon, Ladell Anderson, will be trying to make another drellf!l come true. 
Making the NCAA tournament. 
Unfortunately, only one will make progress in acheiving that goal to­morrow, as Notre Dame and BYU square off on the basketball court of the Athletic and Convocation Cen­ter. The game is listed as a sellout, and WNDU-TV will televise the clash, with tip-offslated for 2 p.m. 
Notre Dame enters the contest with a 16-7 record, following an im­pressive road win over Fordham 
Still leading conference 
Women take on DePaul at ACC 
By MARlY BURNS 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's basket­ball team got a much-deserved respite yesterday after its pasting of 1984 North Star Conference cham­pion Loyola (Chicago), 84-59, Wed­nesday evening at the ACC It will be business-as-usual today, though, for Mary DiStanislao's conference­leading Irish, as they prepare for a Sunday afternoon contest against 
Dt-Paul at 2 p.m. at the ACC 
lbe 14-Birish, who are now 7-1 in the conference, have been playing their best ball of the season lately, as they have racked up victories in nine of their last I I matches. DePaul, on the other hand, is comingoffa defeat Wednesday to Detroit which left them at I 7-7 on the season, and 5-5 in the: conference. 
Wednesday night, which gave the Irish their seventh win in their last nine outings. BYU comes in with a I 5-l0 mark after knocking off Air Force last Saturday to win their eighth contest in their last I I tries. 
With both teams finishing the season strong, Phelps said he realizes the importance ofSaturday's contest to both squads. 
"They're similar to us in a lot of ways, and they have a good shot at the NCAA, too," Phelps said. "As far as we're concerned, this is a home game, a student's game, and a chance for us to get our 17th win. We've got three home games left, and we need to win all ofthem." 
Phelps knows that winning those games will not be an easy task, as BYU comes in with a potent offense which averages 75 points an outing. Spearheading the Cougar attack is 6­
This game may, indeed, turn out to be a serious challenge for the Irish, since it was the Blue Demons who handed the Irish their only NSC loss of the season, a 72-64 drubbing in Chicago on jan. 27. 
"The memory of that game will motivate our players," said DiStanis­lao. "We have to remember it, and guard against making the same mistakes. They (the Blue Demons) are pretty much the same team, and they're going to come in here sky­high to beat Notre Dame." 
In that game at Chicago, the Irish led by five points at halftime, despite shooting a woeful 36 percent from the field. DePaul, which shot an even worse 32 percent in the half, turned things around in the second stanza, hitting 58 percent of its shots and outrebounding Notre Dame, 20-1 5. 
Among the stars of that contest 

6 senior forward Timo Saarelainen, a member of last year's Finnish Olym­pic team, who has averaged 23.3 points per game. However, Phelps said he has no special plans to com­bat the Helsinki hot shot. 
"We'll just play our game," con­tends Phelps, who was impressed with his team's defensive showing against Fordham. "Wednesday night, our defense helped put us in our of­fensive situations, and that's where we got our scoring balance." 
Saarelainen isn't the only offen­sive weapon in the BYlJ arsenal, as guard Scott Sinek also has proven to be a scoring threat. Sinek has averaged a shade over I 0 points a game, but may miss tomorrow's con­test with a dislocated right kneecap.· Should Sinek not be ready to go, An-
see MEN, page 10 

was 5-5 DePaul guard Sally Ander­
son, who scored 24 points, and 5-10 
junior center Tracy Manuel, who 
grabbed 13 rebounds to comple­
ment her 16 points. 
Notre Dame can find consolation, 
perhaps, in noting that it is not the 
only team to have trouble contain­
ing those two DePaul standouts. 
Anderson, a sophomore, is averag­
ing 19.9 ppg. for the Blue Demons, 
while Manuel contributes a 10.9 
scoring average to go with her 8.9 
rebounds-per-game clip. 
"Sally Anderson was a big factor in 
the first game," said DiStanislao. 
"She is a very effective player from 
outside. We are going to have to play 
better defense on her." 
Rounding out the DePaul starting 
five is 5-0 freshman guard Andrea 
see WOMEN, page 11 

Hockey team ends season with Wolves this weekend 
ByED IX>MANSKY 
Sports Writer 
As this season, which marked the return of varsity hockey at Notre Dame, swings into its final weekend, the Irish are hoping to extend their present three-game winning streak and finish in style as they play host to to the University of Michigan­Dearborn tonight and tomorrow at the ACC Both contests begin at 7:30 p.m. 
The latest victory string has en­abled Notre Dame to improve its record to 9-16-l. The Wolves of 
Dearborn arrive at Notre Dame with a 16-13-l mark. 
Along with the games, this final weekend of 1984-85 will feature the annual Parents Weekend celebra­tion. The activities culminate prior to Saturday night's face-off when team members honor their parents with a traditional red-carpet intro­duction ceremony. 
And for Irish seniors Steve Ely, Al Haverkamp, Tom Parent and Rob Ricci, the weekend series will mark their final appearances in a Notre Dame uniform. Two other seniors, co-captain Brent Chapman and Tim Reilly, have been granted an extra year of eligibility by the NCAA due to last season's participation on the 
see IRISH, page 13 
lbc Uboervc:r/fUe l'boco 

Head coach Mike DeCicco (right) wtlllead Kevin Stoutermtre (left) and the rest of the Notre Dame fencing team against some tough competition this weekend in theACC. Mike Chmielpreviews the action and teams with Mark Stadtmueller to give a profile of Christian Scherpe below. 
The big weekend 
Fencers put unblemished 

record on the line at ACC 
By MICHAELJ. CHMIEL 
Sports Writer 

For the first time this year, the Notre Dame fencing team will bring 
its talented and undaunted act home to compete before a friendly 
audience this weekend, as the Irish will play host to seven Midwes­
tern foes in the ACC Fieldhouse. 
Tonight, the Irish will make up a postponed dual meet with the 
Michigan State Spartans at 7 p.m. Tomorrow, the unbeaten Irish will 
have their 16-0 record challenged as they play host to four Big Ten 
teams and the defending national champions beginning at 9 a.m. 
"I'd pay to see this action," said Irish head coach Mike DeCicco. 
"Basketball can't compare with the importance of this weekend's 
fencing. It's like facing Georgetown, St. John's, and DePaul on the 
same day." 

After fencing on the road since the season began in early january. 
the North Dome of the ACC will be a welcome sight for the Irish. 
Considering the harsh weather which the Irish have had to face in 
their travels and the unfriendly surroundings ofsome nine different 
sites, the Irish have been extremely sound and have been exemplify­
ing national-championship form. This weekend, though, the Irish 
must prove themselves against the likes ofWayne State, Illinois, Wis­
consin and Northwestern back-to-back. 
"We have had a better season than I would have expected," said 
DeCicco. "In order to come away and say that we have a shot at the 
see FENCERS, page 12 

Scherpe gives the Irish experience in epee division 
By MARK STADTMUELLER and MICHAELJ. CHMIEL 
Sports Writers 

The Notre Dame men's fencing team has enjoyed great success 
this season and appears to be heading toward a national champion­
ship. One of the reasons for the team's prominence has been the 
outstanding performance of junior epeeist Christian Scherpe. 
Scherpe, along with junior epeeist Alex Gruman, transferred to 
Notre Dame after attending Cal State-Northridge for two years. 
"I was here as an exchange student for one year (in 1981 ) and if I 
would have gone back to Germany, I would have gone back to the 
eleventh grade," said Scherpe, a native ofWest Germany. 
"It would have taken me three years to get my diploma, but I 
already had it in California. 
"I applied to Cal-Northridge, and they took me. I would have been 
graduating from high school now (in West Germany), but now I'm 
graduating from college next year." 
After Cal State-Northridge, finished eighth in the NCAA tourna­
ment last year, the school was forced to disband its fencing program. 
A faculty member at his former school knew Irish head coach 
Mike DeCicco and recommended that Scherpe apply to Notre 
Dame. Scherpe and Gruman both applied to Notre Dame and were 
accepted, much to the delight of DeCicco. 
"Scherpe has been a welcome addition to an already good epee 
see SCHERPE, page 12 







