
Spin-page 5 

VOL XX, NO. 33 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1985 

Alum offers hope for leader meeting 
By SCOTT BEARBY their GPA's as gods or are looking at 
Asslsttmt News Editor a job after graduation as the answer 
to life. 

Hall presidents received a sam­While he admitted student life is 
pling of the upcoming student primarily academic, he added that 
leadership conference during an this doesn't mean there isn't more to 
alumnus speech at the Hall Presi­it. "How many Domers are out there 
dents' Council last night. sittingon their hands and not getting 
Bill Mclean, Ombudsmen direc­Involved?", he asked. tor from 1972-75, is one of 30 "Notre Dame has not changed alumni invited to help student that much since I was here. The leaders and administrators define names may change, but the type of the role student leaders should be people don't," McLean said. taking while at Notre Dame. Accord­He and leadership conference or­ing to Mclean, he is one ofthe many ganizers Duane lawrence and Bruce alumni who "give a damn, not just Lohman believe alumni can help stu­about the football team, or about dents and leaders realize what can what is going on in the classroom," be done through the exchange of but about the people here now. ideas. 
What Mclean advocates as an McLean likened the role of the 
edu<:ator at St. laurence High School alumni this weekend to that of a 
in Chicago is a partnership between parish priest in telling the ad­
the teacher and the student. The ad­ministration "you've got to listen to 
ministration must act "with, not for" what that kid ofyours has to say." 
the student in shaping their lives, he 
said. Leadership meetings will be held 
Although there is nothing wrong throughout the day Saturday. Ac­with what we offer the administra­cording to lawrence, schedules wil tion and what they offer us, there is be posted this Week. He and HPC something more that can be done. Chairman Kevin Howard both en­said McLean. He is not advocating an couraged hall presidents to bring as overthrow ofthe administration, but many underclassmen as they can to rather an attempt to make it better. the sessions since they are potential 
He added that realistically he student leaders. didn't know if improvement is pos­The leadership conference will sible, but the attempt must be made. end Sunday with a speech from Uni­
Mclean cited his own high school versity President Father Theodore students who he is entrusting with Hesburgh, who will give his views access to a computer resource on the role ofa student leader. center and "keys to everything" in In other news. Badin President order for them to teach an adult judith Windhorst gave an update to education class while he is away. He the HPC concerning the inquiry into said If hc can do this with high rectors' fees for lost keys and D-tex school studcnts and trust them, cards. The HPC is discussing extra what can Notre Dame do with its fees which some rectors are charg­students? ing for lost keys. 
Student leadcrship is only limited She and Howard met with Evelyn by human rcsources and commit­Reinebold, director of student ment, but those two qualities may residences, who, according to also be used to change what is Windhorst, said she read the S5 wrong. according to McLean. He charge for lost keys mentioned in du asked whether students are treating lac as a minimum charge. ­

The Observer/Mary-Sharon White 

Iron pumper 
Steven Hagne/1 works out yesterday at the as dreary skies and cool temperatures made out­Rockne Memorial. It was a good day to stay inside, door activities out ofthe question. 
Undergrads no longer check diners 
By RAY MULERA having in dealing with their peers, checker. Hickey cited a substantial StaffReporter Hickey said. 
rise of nearly 100 percent In the 
He cited severe control problems number of casual or guest meals 
In an effort to tighten control over checkers had in dealing with unruly purchased. students entering and exiting the students and cases of checkers be­The decision to change to older dining halls, undergraduate student coming "obnoxious" with diners. checkers was made last spring after 
checkers have been replaced by The new system seeks to decrease Hickey visited the University of Mic­graduate students and help from these incidents by using checkers higan for a food services convention. outside the University. less likely to come into conflict with A tour of their facilities revealed 
This new policy, according to Bill students, he said. graduate students and even senior 
Hickey, director of University Food Also of concern to the food citizens working as checkers. Inves­Services, became necessary because service was the number of students tigation proved this to be a more ef­of "many, many incidents" which sneaking past checkers without fective method ofchecking. occurred over the past year. paying or having a valid dining card, This change of policy is actually a 
A review of checkers' perfor­he said. Allegedly, off-campus stu­return to old procedures, Hickey 
mances revealed the many dif­dents were able to eat without the 
see CHECKERS, page 3

ficulties undergraduates were proper meal plan if they knew the 

Captain asks rescuers to stay away; reports all are safe 
aboard, including 331 crew mem-outside the port of Tartus, a negotiations with Israel. Cordone, the Italian charge 
bers. diplomat reported. A western He shouted, "We will hit any d'affaires, said Italy had refused all 
A man who said he was the cap­The Italian government said it diplomat in Damascus said it was ship, any plane that tries to ap-contact with the hijackers. "We're: tain of a hijacked Italian cruise would not give in to "terrorist bound for Cyprus, and Beirut port proach us! This is Omar, the aligning ourselves with the liner In the Mediterranean pleaded blackmail," and also said that the officials said it was in international hijacker of the Italian ship. I want American position -that is not to with would-be rescuers yesterday hijackers "seem" to be demanding waters off the coast of Cyprus. But to speak to Beirut port aut-negotiate with terrorists," he: told to stay away from the Achille freedom for prisoners in Italy and horities." reporters. Lauro, on which heavily armed other countries. Judicial sources When port officials identified Italian Defense Minister Palestinian pirates held more than have said 13 Palestinian terrorists themselves, Omar said: Giovanni Spadolini said in Rome, 400 people under threat ofdeath. and suspects are jailed in Italy. "I want to negotiate.... Iwant to "We are counting that in the end 
He also said everyone aboard Most of the Americans who had negotiate with Israel. I want you to reason will prevail.... We affirm was In good health, which ap­been on the Achille Lauro cruise convey this message. I want to that we will not cede to any tee­peared to contradict earlier un­were among approximately 600 negotiate with Israel. That's all, I rorist blackmail." confirmed reports that the passengers who disembarked in want to break off now." Prime Minister Shimon Peres hijackers had killed two American Alexandria, Egypt, before the He said nothing about hostages said in Jerusalem that no govern-hostages to press their demand Palestinians seized the ship ap-having been klUed. Cairo ment had asked Israel to free that Israel free 50 Palestinian proximately 30 miles west of Port newspapers said the gang leader prisoners. He did not say what the prisoners. Said. Reports indicated ap-identified himself shortly after the answer to such a request would be, 
"Please, please, don't try anyth­proximately 12 Americans still hijack as Omar Mustafa, code-but an Israeli official said Ing on my ship," he shouted into were aboard. named Abu Rashad, but nothing privately,"we wiU not negotiate the radio from the ship, which was Western diplomats In Damascus more was known about him. with terrorists." reported to be in international said the Syrian Foreign Ministry The Beirut port officials and Is-Peres said, "We did not get any waters off Cyprus. told Italian Charge d'Affaires Pietro raeli radio monitors said the man demands. We do not have to 
The Palestinian hijackers were Cordone the hijackers claimed to who said he was the captain answer." said to have a large supply of ex­have killed two Amrncans. "We shouted into the radio later, "I Israeli officials said Italian om-plosives, and vowed soon after have no confirmation," said one a Cypriot government source said have one message. Please, please, clals believed the pirates boarded seizing the vessel Monday night diplomat, who spoke on condition the ship would not be allowed to don't try anything on my ship. at Genoa, origination point of the that they would blow it up if ofanonymity. dock there. Everybody is in very good health." cruise. But Spanish radio monitors military air or naval forces tried to The ship sailed west from the In an earlier radio conversation He did not give his name, but the said they heard radio traffic that in-interfere. Flotta Lauro, the ship­Syrian coast after it was denied with Beirut port authorities, the vessel's master has been identified dicated the hijackers joined the ping line, said 413 people were access to Syrian territorial waters hijack gang's leader demanded as Gerardo de Rosa. ship at various ports. 

~---~~-~-------­
The Observer Wednesday, October 9, 1985-page 2 


Of Interest 
Prospective law students will have an oppor­tunity to talk one-on-one wim representatives ofmore than I00 law schools at the Second Annual Law School Forum in Chicago. Scheduled tomorrow and Saturday at me Palmer House and Towers, me free I l/2 day recruitme~t forum is sponored by Law School Admission Council/Law School Admission Services, the national or­ganization that administers the LSAT.-The Observer 
The French Club is holding a general meeting tonight at 7 in the New Orleans Room in LaFortune. Upcoming activities will be discussed and dues will be collected. -The Observer 
'fhe eighth in a SerieS of annual Joseph P. Molony Lectures at Notr~ Dame will be given tonight at 8 by Stanley Aronowitz, author and professor of sociology at the City University of New York. The talk in Hayes-Healy Center, sponsored by the Economics Department and United Steelworkers ofAmerica, is open to the public. Aronowitz, aumor of several books, is a regular con­tributor to "The Progressive" and also writes for the Los Angeles Times syndicate, The Nation, Village Voice and other periodicals.­
The Observer 
A United Way meeting will be held at 7 tonight in the little Theatre of me LaFortune Student Center. All who are in­volved or wish to be are asked to attend. -The Observer 
Spiritual Rock will hold its fellowship meeting tonight at 7 in Keenan Hall Chapel. All m~ .nbers and newcomers are welcome. -The Observer 
Notre Dame's athletic program will be the 
topic tonight at IO on "Campus Perspectives" on WVFI-AM. Special guest Chuck Freeby joins hostJohn Deckers for a discussion ofNotre Dame sports. Questions and comments can be voiced by calling 2 39­6400. -Tbe Observer 
All economics majors are invited to attend an in­terview and resume seminar tonight at 7 in I20 Hayes-Healy. The seminar will feature Paul Reynolds, assistant director of Career Placement Services, and is sponsored by Omicron Delta Epsilon, the Economics Honor Society.-The Observer 
Entertainmentand Awareness Rally Against 
Starvation invites you to me movies. RASTA's concern for Africa motivated them to bring entertainment and awareness together. "China Syndrome" and "From a Dark House" will be presented tonight at 7 in Room I27 Nieuwland Science Hall. Admission SI.OO.­
The Observer 
An Appalachia trip over October break is being sponsored by Pasquerilla East. For more information, interested volunteers should call 283-I 704 by Friday. Space is limited. -The Observer 
Justice on the Farm is me basic concern ofme Farm Labor Organizing Committee. There will be a F.L.O.C.-N.D. support group meeting tonight at 7:30 at the Center for Social Concerns. All who wish to support the struggle toward justice and peace for both me midwestern farmworker and farmer ace invited to attend. -The Observer 


Weather 
Sunny day? :No way. non't look up today; it's cloudy, and it's going to be that way for a while. Mostly cloudy today with a 20 percent chance of showers. High in me upper 60s. Cloudy tonight and tomorrow, with a 40 percent chance ofshowers. Low in the mid 50s. High tomorrow in me upper 60s. -AP 


The Observer 
1be Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) Is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. 1be Observer is published by the studentsof the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's CoU.::ge. Subscriptions may be purchased for 130 pc:r year ( S20 pc:r se· mester) by writing 1be Observer, P.O. 
Box Q, Notr" Dame, Indiana 46556. 
1be Observer Is a member of 1be 
Associated Press. All reproduction 
rights are reserved. 
Design Editor........................ And! Schnuck Design Assistant .................. Kathy Huston Layout Staff........................ Sarah Hamilton Typesetters ...................................... Pat Clark Mark B. Johnson Jennifer Lynn Blgott News Editor....................... Bob Musselman Copy Editor.......................Ann Kaltenbach Art Editor............................ Mark Welmholt Sports Copy Editor.................. Larry Burke Viewpoint Copy Editor .......Allee Groner VIewpoint Layout............ Melissa Warnke Features Copy Editor.......... Gertie Wimer Features Layout.........................Carey Gels NO Day Editor........................ Diane Duurt SMC Day Editor.................... Priscilla Karle AdDesign .......................Jeanie Grammens Jim Kramer Photographer ............. Mary-Sharon White 


'Dillon decision' to affect student life for years to come 
"Husb, children, whars that sound? Everybody look whars going down." -Buffalo Springfield 
Some residents of Dillon Hall had a tailgater in the parking lot outside·Michigan Stadium a couple ofweeks ago and sang the famous Dillon fight songwhile the "Big Red" fla8 flapped in me breeze above me party. 
Administrators heard of me event and took discipli­nary action against the entire dorm. Residents have been forced to forget about one oftheir two hall dances this semester and are required to participate in a com­munity service project. 
Apparently, the University officials who imposed this punishment interpreted the party as a hall-sponsored event, even though no hall funds were used to finance the festivities nor was the party advertised as a Dillon 
tailgater. John Goldrick, as­ 
sociate vice president for  
residence life, would not  
give specific details about  
the rationale behind me  
punishment. Nonetheless,  
the hall and the campus ap­ 
pear to have accepted it.  
Something is very wrong  
here.  
The main issue this situa­ 
tion addresses is whether  
the University's rules, as put  
forth in du Lac, have juris­ 
diction beyond the boun­ 
daries ofthe campus.  
Father Joseph Carey,  
Dillon Hall rector, said he  ~Ai(  
believes they do. He offered  loiQrfi/OCf  
as precedent for the Dillon  
decision a 1983 incident in  

which a Notre Dame senior entered a "Wet Willie" con­test in a Daytona Beach bar. 
The senior, outfitted in Irish regalia and body paint, stripped off his clothes on stage in an effort to win the contest. He didn't win. lnst~ad, he returned to campus to find the administration threatening him with expul­sion. 
During an eleventh-hour meeting between then Dean of Students James Roemer and a packed chapel full of students at Morrissey Hall, Roemer decided not to expel the student, but ramer had him make a formal apology to the Notre Dame community. 
This is poor precedent for the Dillon decision be­cause no formal punishment was taken against the stu­dent. Instead, his actions, which were indisputably out of line, were met with compassion and understanding from the administration. The University made me right decision and was able to avert addressing the problem ofdu Lac's jurisdiction. 
HELP FIGHT BIRTH DEFECTS 
_,T NOTBE DAME/SAINT MABY'S THEATRE 
--~'­

Canyou 
'~ \~·\ presents
affordtogamble 


with the LSAT, GMAT, GRE,orMCAl? 
Probably not. Great grades alone may not be enough to impress the grad school of 
\~
your choice. 

Scores play a part. And 
that'~ how Stanley H. Kaplan 
can help. 

The Kaplan course teaches 
test-taking techniques, reviews 
course subjects, and increases 
the odds that you'll do the best 
you cando. 

So if you've been out of 
school for a while and need a 
refresher, or even ifyou're fresh 
out of college, do what over 1 
million students have done. 
Take Kaplan. Why take ~ 
a chance with your 11~ 
~~ 
The worlds leading test prep organization. 
SOUTH BEND AREA Stanley H. Kaplan Ed. Ctr. 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. 
For ticket information: 
South Bend, Indiana 46637 
(219) 239-5957

(219). 272·4135 
End of the World by Arthur Kopit 
Oct. 10,11,12;17,18,19 WASHINGTON HALL 
8:10pm  
Tickets:  $6  main floor  
$5  balcony  
$4  students  



Available at: 
Record Store/LaFortune Student Center Washington Hall O'Laughlin Auditorium Ticket Office 

Dan 



McCullough 
News Editor 
With the Dillon decision, however, the hard line has been drawn. The administration is implying that Notre Dame's rules apply to students at all times, wherever they might be. 
This decision has not been made with a great amount of grace. By not responding to inquiries for the rationalization behind the decision, the University has denied students the compassion that accompanied the I983 incident. · 
They have replaced understanding with a dangerous precedent of closed­mindedness. Their failure to explain their decision threatens the spirit of com­munication that is essential to the mutual respect and understanding between stu­dents and administrators. They seem to feel they don't have to explain themselves. 
Maybe they don't. 
Student leaders have failed to respond to this challenge. The days when student leaders questioned the validity of such deci­sions have apparently ended. Instead, the student 
/O•I:t body is confronted with an attitude ofcomplacency and blind acceptance -and the 

unconditional surrender of the rights of me student in decisions that will have reverberations for years to come. 
Something must be done. 
The Student Senate should put this on their agenda. The Judicial Council should go through du Lac and see if the administration's decision is in the spirit of that document. And the Healy administration should adopt an attitude of confrontation, rather than appeasement, on this issue. 
Dillon Hall should challenge the forfeiture of their SYR. The hall should perform the community service, but only if accompanied by a statement that says the service is being done voluntarily and not as an act of punishment. 
This is an important decision the University has tried to slip by students. It is more than just an issue of some guys being punished for singing a dirty song and drink­ing beer. More than just an SYR has been forfeited. Along with the dance, me acceptance of this punish­ment would be a forfeiture of our rights as individuals. This cannot and must not be tolerated. 



The Observer Wednesday, October 9, 1985-page 3 


Light cycle to change 
By SUSAN PAWLECK.I 
News Staff 
Look for different combina· tions of"grc:en-yellow-red" at the intersection of Angela and Notre Dame: avenues, since the traffic light there: wiU soon be under the influence: ofa new cycle. 
Ray Dalgiiesh, of the South Bend Traffic Control, said, "With the new cycle, the light on An­gela Avenue will be green all the time except for when pedestrians wish to cross. The pedestrians must learn to use the marked routes and press control buttons to make the light red." 

Ready to unlock your potential? Then here are your keys. We're looking for delivery drivers with the ambition to advance through our system step­by-step. 
Call or stop in your local Domino's Pizza store today for more employment information. Who knows? The keys to your future just might be waiting for you at Domino's Pizza. 


Call us: 277-2151 
1835 South Bend Ave. Plaza 23 Center South Bend 
©1985 Domino's Pizza, Inc. 

APPhoto 
ranean off the Egyptian coast Monday with more than 400 people aboard. Story on page 1. 
Five more die in apartheid violence 
Pedestrians will only be able to cross southwest, southeast, and northwest, he said, and they will be given 24 seconds to cross the intersection. 
Dalgllesh said he hopes the light will be operational by Oct. 
19. The new system is intended to save motorists time and con· serve the energy that automobiles waste while waiting for a green light, he said. 
Notre Dame Security, campus pollee, and local businesses, he said, will be notified of the new cycle. 


JOHANNESBURG, South Africa Police said yesterday that five more blacks were killed in anti-apartheid violence, and Bishop Desmond Tutu said he wondered if advocates of peaceful change should "sit down and shut up" and let the rioters prevail. 
Tutu, the black Anglican bishop of Johannesburg and Nobel Peace laureate, though frustrated by per­sisting violence, said he would not abandon his advocacy of peaceful protest "because we love this land." 
Police battled rioters around johannesburg, Pretoria, near Cape Town and outside Port Welizabeth on the Indian Ocean coast. 
Outside Cape Town, a wind­swept fire believed to have been started by a gas stove burned out of control for about three hours yester­day in the overcrowded Cross Roads squatter camp ror blacks. No casualties were confirmed, but a rumor persisted that four children were unaccounted for. 
Pa. -A special 


Career program offers observation, action 
By CANDICE BECKER 
News Staff 
Interested in spending a week of your Christmas vacation working in your future career? If so, the Notre Dame Alumni Association has the program for you. 
The association is sponsoring a Career Exposure Program, a chance for juniors and seniors who have had the necessary prerequisite courses to spend a week working for a firm in their field, according to Marla Micelli, director of the program. 
"This program offers juniors and seniors a chance to explore the areas they area looking at and to see other professionals in action," she said. 
She said this is the second year for the Career Exposure Program, and last year 22 students participated. 
The program is strictly volunteer on both sides, Micelll said. The stu­dents volunteer their energy and skill, and the employers volunteer their time and work space. 
For logistical reasons, it is best if the students participate in the program in their particular area, said Micelli. Otherwise, problems with housing may arise. 

Micelli wrote to the Notre Dame: Alumni clubs across the United States soliciting interest in the: program. They responded by in· forming her of the types of workers they could use. 
The following clubs sponsor the program in their area: 
• 
Albany, N.Y.: All fields considered 

• 
Aurora/Fox Valley: Mechanical Engineering, Law, and Physics 

• 
Florida West Coast: Psychology, Social Work, and Education 

• 
Pittsburgh: Accounting, Banking/Finance, Law, Sports Writing, and Social Work 

• 
LaCrosse, Wis.: All fields con­sidered 

• 
Lansing, Mich.: Agriculture, Law, Business, Government Communica­tions, Engineering, and Architecture 

• 
Los Angeles: Communications, Engineering, Medicine, Law, Real Estate, Banking, and Architecture 

• 
Rochester, N.Y.: All fields con­sidered 

• 
Orange County, Calif.: All fields considered 

• 
Tampa Bay Fla.: All fields con­sidered 


Witnesses said the fire destroyed approximately 100 shacks, leaving approximately 1,000 of the es­timated 50,000 camp residents homeless. The government provided tents. 
Police said they found the bodies of two blacks who were burned to death near New Brighton, a black area outside Port Elizabeth, 600 miles south ofJohannesburg. 
Police said they shot two blacks to death and wounded two in a crowd hurling gasoline bombs near Cape Town. In Evaton, a black area 30 miles south of Johannesburg, a government worker with a shotgun killed a black man among a crowd attacking a government vehicle, police said. No details were available. 
To speak out in favor ofviolence is an offense in South Africa, where 5 million whites dominate and deny the vote to 24 tnillion blacks through apartheid, South Africa's in­stitutionalized racial separation. 
Tutu spoke at a news conference after returning from Britain, where he met Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and leaders of the opposi­tion Labor Party. 

Tutu was discussing his "attitude:" toward prospects for peaceful change In South Africa when he told reporters, "I sometimes think that we (advocates of peaceful protest) should sit down and shut up, and let those that say violence: Is the answer go ahead. But ofcourse we: won't do that because we love this land." 
He then repeated earlier state­ments that there is a point beyond which even the church would adv· ocate armed revolution against South Africa's white: rulers. 
By unofficial count, more than 750 blacks have died in unrest that began Sept. 3. 1984. Police say ap· proximately a third died in violence: among blacks, usually mobs attack­ing blacks viewed as collaborators with the whites. 
The rest, say police, were kllled by police or the army, which joined In trying to put down the riots II months ago. 
Panel looks into MOVE fire, siege 
WHYY-TV after the Fraternal Order ofPolice failed in its latest legal chal· lenge against the Philadelphia Spe­cial Investigation Commission. 
Mayor W. Wilson Goode, who will testify before the panel, appointed the 11-member commission to probe the city's attempt to serve warrants on four members of the back-to-nature group and to evict it from its fortified west Philadelphia rowhouse. 
Seven adults and four children died in the fortified MOVE house in a fire that began after police dropped a bomb on it. The fire was allowed to burn out ofcontrol for more than an hour, destroying 61 rowhouses, leaving 250 people homeless and 

causing  more  than  Sl 0 million in  
damage.  
Reading  from  a  1 5-page  stata·  

ment, Brown, a former chairman of tht; U.S. Equal Employment Oppor­
tunity Commission, said the com· mission hopes "to begin healing the wounds caused by the failure to resolve conflicting lifestyles in a peaceful way." 
MOVE has fought authority since 1973, when It demonstrated at the Philadelphia Zoo on grounds that caging animals violated their rights and freedom. 
Homes where the group has lived in the city were littered with animal excrement artd garbage, and dogs and cats were allowed to roam. MOVE members displayed guns and used bullhorns to harass neighbors with rhetoric. 
In the last seven years, the city's attempts to act against MOVE ended in two shootouts between pollee 
and the group.  ·  
The  first  witnesses  before:  the  
commission  included  policemen.  

That person's promotion lc:ft the position to a graduate student, and

Checkers 
the lack of a full-time supervisor continuedfrom page I allowed for Inefficiency, Hickey said. Originally, checker positions said. were held by law and graduate stu· The: change: in policy wiU not cost dents, but shortages in past years the University any more: money or 
caused positions to be filled by un­cost any students their jobs, he said. dergraduates.· The cost of the: new checkers is the: Until last year, he said, the check­same as before, and because of the: ers were under the control of a "continuing need" for student 
full-time food service employee: and workers, no one: in need of finapclal operated at their highest efficiency. 
aid has been denied a job. 
The Observer 

Wednesday, October 9, 1985-page 4 



ID•ao•va•tor (in' e-va'ter) n. 1. One who begins or introduces something new; one who is creative. 
2. THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES. 
AND YOU CAN TOO. 
Ideas spark innovation. Imagination fuels it. Achievement realizes it. 
At The Travelers, we challenge yottr po­tential so you can strive for innovation. 
So let your ideas help shape our future. And yours. 
Write to: Rubin Fisher, Assistant Director, College and Professional Recruiting, Depart­ment 31, The Travelers Companies, One Tower Square, Hartford, Ct 06183. 





TheTravelerSJ' 
The Travelers Companies Hartford, Connecticut 06183 


Accent 
Wednesday, October 9, 1985-page 5 
Rolling Stone's overturned by Spin 

Tim Adams 
features copy editor 
T 
hey say a rolling stone gathers no moss, don't they? 
Well, I don't think "they" have 
seen an issue of Rolling Stone · the 
magazine, that is · lately. 
How boring it Is! Who wants to 
see a five-page fashion spread 
featuring Anthony Michael Hall? 
Gee, the last time I checked, he 
hadn't released an album or single 
yet! Oh, I get it ·he has nothing 
whatsoever to do with music, so it's 
supposed to be cool to put him in 
the magazine. Silly me! 
Anyway, there has been anal­
ternative to Rolling Stone recently, 
and that's a new magazine called 
Spin. Now it's not God's gift to 
music journalism or anything, but it 
does attempt to be different, at 
least. 
Different? With people like 
Madonna, Pat Benatar, and Keith 
Richard..~ on the cover? OK, it does 
lure you into buying it by featuring 
big-name rock stars on its cover. 
But inside each issue is something 
very different than the cover story 
would indicate. 

been signed to Sire Records. Anot· her pet group ofSpin, the Beastie Boys, opened for Madonna on her Like a Virgin tour. Guadalcanal 
Diary's most recent album, Walking in the Shadow of the Big Man, did so well that Elektra Records signed them and rereleased the album on their label. These groups do have a following. 
All this is well and good, but do 
people really like the magazine? 
Juniors Todd Taylor and Bob Manning replied with a definite "no." They had never seen Spin before, but agreed to read an issue. Taylor said, " Why would someone want to read a magazine with a guy wearing a skull ring on the cover?" 
"It's a poor imitation ofRolling Stone," Manning added. "But I did think the 'Rockstars and Models' article was good. It ought to be a yearly magazine instead ofa monthly." 
Was there anything Taylor liked it all up when she said, "It's pretty vulgar · but I like it!" 
One Notre Dame student, junior Brian Peters, had a different opinion on Spin. Peters has been a regular reader of the magazine and is a fan of underground music. "It covers the scene that's happening now," he said. "It's up to the moment, and no other magazine does that." 
As for Spin's bad points, Peters said, "They should dedicate more space to the independent scene, because that's where the future of rock is now. I don't like Spin having to copout with having mainstream acts on the cover. They also review only records they really love or really hate, like Motley Crue. They should cover more." 
In each issue, there is enough material on mainstream groups to satisfy almost every taste. One plus ofSpin magazine is that it strives to cover all musical styles, thus satisfy­ing a big cross-section offans. Anot · her unique aspect ofSpin is that it lets musicians write articles for the magazine. David Lee Roth wrote a 
feature on cruising, and how to do it. Black Flag's Henry Rollins has written two articles, one having to do with 7-11 stores. Noted west coast punk producer Geza X wrote a three-part story on how to make and distribute your own record. 
Stylistically, Spin tries to be hip and funny. The publisher, Bob Guccione Jr., son ofPenthouse publisher Bob Sr., is cocky about Spin and he certainly lets it show. His introductory section "Topspin" sounds like a Sammy Davis Jr. ap­pearance on "The Tonight Show" with all the superfluous praise about Spin writers, photographers, and everyone else on the staff, including himself. 
When Spin first came out, Guc· clone bragged that it was a refresh· ing change in the music magazine industry. Maybe so, but the quality seems to be declining with each issue. My basis for saying this is that the time I spend reading each issue has fallen to about 1~ minutes, as opposed to the ho~r I spent on the first issue. 

Spin is good in the respect that it features almost 100 percent music. No articles by Thomas Wolfe which run forever, no articles on dead junior high school cheerleaders. 
Opinions on Spin are still decidedly mixed. Many people can't stand it. But many people love it. And many more, like me, find some parts ofit great and some parts terrible. There is, however, much room for improvement, and lots ofpotential. 
I still wonder ifGuccione will succeed as his father has done. Probably not to such an extent, although there is a market for dif· ferent and risky music journalism. Spin has withstood its first six issues without collapsing. I think it will be around for a while. At least we'll know it's in trouble when it begins to feature nude pictures of Madonna. 

Perusing through an issue, for the about it? "I liked the 'Miami Vice' uninitiated, can be a traumatic album ad," he said. experience as stories on bands like However, not everyone is this the Red Hot Chili Peppers, negative toward the magazine. "I Scream in' Sirens, and Guadalcanal think it's hilarious. The articles are a Diary appear in every issue. The bit bizarre. They're not the type "Underground" section, on the you'd find in any ordinary magazine other hand, features bands with . but that's what makes it interest-names that can't be printed in this ing," said freshman Barbara Sachar, nt·wspaper. who had never seen Spin before 
Hut, being a fan of this type of either. She added, "It's true to old music, I can say that almost every time Rock 'n' Roll. There are plenty "unknown" band that Spin has ofquotes from great rockers like featured has made at least some Pete Townshend and Ted Nugent in dent in the underground scene, it." either through records or live ap· Her roommates, freshmen Col­pearances. leen McGillis and GigiJunkins, both 
For instance, the Replacements, agreed that Spin was pretty good. who were featured in the premier "It was fun to read, but was a little issue ofSpin released an album last too gossipy. It had nice pictures and year called Let It Be which sold good ideas for articles," said McGil· more than ~o.ooo copies on an lis. Junkins called Spin "good independent label. They've since bathroom reading." Sachar summed 

A 
ttenhon Domers: Are you sick 
and tired ofall those mundane 
clubs you've been hearing about for 
ages? Do you long to deviate from 
your friends in the activities you 
pursue? 

When was the last time you per­
formed in precision drills in com­
petition? Or visited local military 
academies to inspect the troops? Or 
really practiced drill and 
ceremonies? 

Not recently? Perhaps never? 
Then you obviously haven't dis­
covered the advantages ofone of 
Notre Dame's more obscure or­
ganizations: the Irish Marauder Drill 
Team, led by Contact Commander 
Colleen Kain. 

The Irish Marauders are a 
"platoon that marches in competi­
tions across the country, perform­
ing precision drills against other 
universities," according to First 
Sargt:antJoe Schweninger. "These 
drills involve marching with dif· 
ferent movements that involve 
weapon maneuvers," he added. 
Last year the team competed at 
Tulane University, Purdue, the 
University ofIllinois, and others. It 
also makes road trips throughout 
the year to Lemans Military 
Academy in Indiana and other 
similar institutions to present ex­
hibitions and to inspect the cadets. 
"Later in the afternoon we eat with the cadets and explain what ROTC is all about," Schweninger explains. 

Schweninger feels that member­ship in the Irish Marauders provides insight into army life. "When we graduate we are going to be army officers, so it's good to know how to lead men and execute commands with confidence. We really get to learn D & C (drill and ceremonies)." 
Although the team has not placed highly in competition in recent years, they prefer to emphasize the learning aspect rather than the actual competitions. 
ND/SMC clubs 
Schweninger sums up this belief. "It's a great way to meet other 
'
people in ROTC. The best aspect of the team is most definitely the sense ofcamaraderie that you share with others. It's a great learning experience." 
Membership in the Marauders is open to any army ROTC cadet, excluding seniors. Practice is held twice a week from 4:30 to 6 p.m., at Stepan on Mondays and at the ACC on Tuesdays. 


Charles Rose drills with Irish. 
Colleen Clynes 
features writer 

View~_o_i_n_._t________w_ed-ne-sda-y,-Oc-to-be-r9_,~-98-5-_pa-ge-6 
Do not look to Geneva with high expectations 
"We will bury you" 

-Nikita Khrushchev " ...As you say, live and let live" -Mikhail Gorbacbev As evident by the two quotes, Soviet thought on the superpower relationship bas seemingly undergone a substantial reversal since the years of shoe-banging by Khrushchev at the United Nations. 
Evan Farley in through the out door 
The Soviet Union has mounted a massive public relations campaign aimed at dispelling their image as the "evil·ftllpire" and ponray­ing the Russian bear as a mere cub that is clip­
ping its own claws while across the ocean the recalcitrant eagle sharpens its talons. The war of the words before the Nov. 19 and 20 sum­mit between the world's two most powerful men has been fought for many months, with the newest Soviet salvos having put-to-shame the catchiest jingles written on _Madison Avenue. Are the Soviet's earnest in their proposals, or are they giving us the same gifts wrapped in fancier paper? Before: you answer yes to either question, consider these next 
few points. 

• Be careful not to be mislead by Ule plen­titude ofproposals containinggrandiose num­bers and percents. Numbers can be easily twisted to make any proposal seem charitable, with the case in point being the new Soviet proposal to reduce long-range and medium­range nuclear weapons by 50 percent. On the surface it seems like a startling and revolution­ary proposal, yet many r~rvations quickly 
emerge. A loophole in the offer is that the Soviets could pick and choose less valuable systems to scrap while maintaining their force of SS-18's highly accurate and their 1 0 war­head carrying ICBMs that are potential first­strike weapons. The Soviets also made the offer in hopes of controlling weapons that could strike at the homelands of the super­powers, which would mean that medium­range U.S. Pershing Il's based in Europe would come under the proposal's jurisdiction, while the Soviet counterpart force, the SS-19, would remain untouched due to its inability to reach American soil. One must realize that although offers such as this may truly signal a Soviet wil­lingness to bargain, one should endeavor to look past the numbers and see what is really being offered -fancy figures on paper or 
meaningful reductions. 

• Read into the context ofnew developments and avoid taking them at face value. Soviet in­transigence about the militarization of space is unfounded though catchy. The anti-satellite system recently tested by the United States is simply a missile fired from an F-1 5 aimed against a military target in space and is no of­fensive threat. The only militarization ofspace possible in the near future is the mid-course stage of an ICBM as it proceeds on its deadly mission. An elegant Soviet offer to ban development ofnewstrategic weapons would do no more than seek to halt the future deployment ofthe land-based MX and Midget· man missiles, the sub-based D-5 missile and the Stealth bomber, all at early stages of development, while the Soviets proceed with deployment of their new SS-24 and SS-25 ICBMs. The moratorium on nuclear testing did nothing to affect the Soviet nuclear force 
posture since they rushed to complete their year's testing before the eve ofthe fortieth an­niversary of the Hiroshima bombing, while seeking to prevent the United States from hoi­.ding two very important tests dealing with "Star Wars" research and the Trident missile program. Their condemnation of the U.S. ASAT system test failed to point out that they have had an operable (though somewhat clumsy) ASAT system for years. All of their proposals seem stabilizing and beneficial to 
superpower relations, but unfortunately are obviously one-sided when viewed even su­perficially. 
• Do not expect too much from the Geneva talks. Much ofthe Soviet public relations cam­paign has as its focus the building up of ex­pectations through propagandawhile banking on U.S. intransigence on some of the previously mentioned proposals to make it ap­pear the "bad guy" in the eyes ofthe world. As one might remember, the United States used the same tactic successfully against the Soviets a few years ago concerning the "Zero Option" and the deployment of Pershing ll's, and now the Soviets are using the strategy against the U.S. on the "Star Wars" issue. Presi­dent Reagan has remained adamant in his refusal to abandon space defense research, while the Soviets have made their 50 percent weapons reduction proposal contingent on the United States' abandonment of even the most basic research into the Strategic Defense Initiative. The Soviet Union is clearly trying to box the United States into a corner where their are two unpleasant options: abandon­ment ofthe talks followed by world-wide con­demnation; or abandonment of the Defence Initiative and the possibility to significantly in­
crease national security. With such stances being held by the Soviets, it is hard to see any meaningful agreements coming out of Geneva. 
• A wolf in sheep's clothes...Gorbachev and company may drink Coca-Cola, wearing Cal­vin Klein designer suits, listen to Bruce Springsteen, and watch Miami Vice, but they are still Soviets and such social aspects make them no more likely to compromise Russia's geopolitiCal position than President Reagan's drinking of vodka or development of a penchant for cabbage and caviar would make him any less concerned about U.S. national in­terests. Wearingcowboy hats and telling jokes does not make one sincerely peaceful (although it seems to work for one Western leader), and the American populace must realize that under all ofthe glitter, we are still faced with a Soviet leader who, though dynamic, may be all the more dangerous for that same reason. 
"Ideas are weapons," said Victor Lenin and 
·ifthis is so, the Soviet and American citizeni-y must head for the shelters as we near the date of the opening of the summit. Are the Soviets really prepared to bargain? Early indications cast much doubt on this statement, although of course no one can answer with absolute cenainty except Gorbachev and a few of his top aids. So when the American public sits back and digests the propaganda soon to be force fed to it, let us hope that the meal was worth sitting at the table in Geneva and that after all of the hoopla, we don't come away saying, in the words of the soon to be famous political scientist, "Where's the beef?" 
Evan Farley is an International Kela­tions/Economics juniorfrom Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame fails to help eliminate apartheid 
Each day more are arrested, burtS:ed from their homes, and killed. With each new dawn South Afri<;a becomes a slave to both apar­theid and total chaos. Desmond Tutu's cries for peace are challenged by the cries of militant youths calling fo.r weapons. This country on the southern tip of Africa is savagely torn. The dagger of divisiveness has failed to create"'a neat incission; the police battle the youths, mourt'ledbattle the govern­ment, blacks battle whites, and tragically, blacks battle blacks. 
BffiKrais 

save the whales 
Below this apparent havoc is a government which insists that it is committed to attaining peace through .compromise and negotiation while, in fact, re:fusing to engage in active dis­course. The government of Pretoria, reiterat­ing its confidence in the present form of segregation, has implicitly assured the world that deplorable prejudices legally carried out within its boundaries will continue. Yet, after the protests, the rallies, the empty words, the funerals, the states of emergency, all that remains are dead bodies. South Africa has cer­tainly become one ofcivilized man's greatest moral attrocities. 
As this horrifying drama unfolds daily, out­siders must ask themselves what they can do to eradicate such injustice. The inevitable answer to this question, it seems to me, is simple: a moratorium on all current invest-
Doonesbury 
50 TH/515 UH-HUH. 
THt PC YOU've. 5/T POIAJN , /3&eN WORXING ANP I'LL. i ON FOR J0/35? 5HOfiJ YOU 
' I 

ments with companies i:hat have vested inter­ests in South Africa, followed by complete divestment. This course of action should be taken immediately (ifit isn't already too late) by all investors in South Africa, including the Univerisity ofNotre Dame. 
Through investments, Notre Dame and ot­
hers lend tacit legitimacy to the racist regime 
of South Africa. More importantly, however, 
Western investments are the "legs of apar­
theid;" they bolster the South African 
economy and reinforce the Pretorian govern­
ment. Notre Dame and others have neglected 
the "immeasurable moral dimension of a 
policy toward South Africa." Investors, Notre 
Dame included, consider their relationship 
toward companies in South Africa in a purely 
economic sense. They refuse to acknowledge 
that their irresponsibility leads to the ex­
ploitation, death, and destruction ofan entire 
race ofpeople. 

Representative Stephen J Solarz of New York asserts that "our corporate presence must be seen in the context of a brutal racist system that denies fundamental rights to the vast majority ofits people." We cannot, in this case, assent to the basic capitalist tenet, profit at all cost. We must recognize the implica­tions of such investments and consider responsibly the role of and our relationship toward corporations in South Africa. 
Critics claim, however, that the corporate sector, by adhering to rudimentary principles ofmorality (i.e. the Sullivan Principles), is not aiding the apartheid regime but actually hel­ping the blacks. The argument that divest­ment of American economic interests from 
South Africa will hurt the blacks, by creating greater unemployment and decreasing their standard ofliving is misleading. Ifinvestments continue at such a great rate, many blacks may still have jobs, but the ruling white minority will continue to become disproportionately wealthier. In South Africa, the trickle down theory is nowhere to be found. If more revenue is ascertained by a corporation benefitting from U.S. investments, these profits are not equitably distributed among the many poor employees, but horded by the 
white management. Furthermore, Solarz cor­rectly points out that "Like oppressed peoples everywhere, (the blacks) are surely willing to endure temporary economic setbacks to ac­hieve dignity and freedom." 
States have recognized the injustices precipitated as a result of their investments; 
both New Jersey and New York have passed legislation for div~stment. Countries have acknowledged the same fact; France and Sweden have divested from South Africa. Notre Dame, on the other hand, refuses to ac­c~pt responsibility for its behavior. Notre Dame even refuses to believe that what they are doing has any moral implications what­soever. Father Hesburgh clears his conscience by deploring, much like President Reagan does, the "repugnant" apartheid government; but he, the Board ofTrustees, and the United States government stubbornly refuse to prove "that we are committed by deed, as well as by word, to the elimination ofapartheid." 
Bill Krais is a junior in tbe college ofArts and Letters and a regular viewpoint colum­nist. 
Be Write Where It Counts Join Viewpoint Today 
Become part ofa winning team ofwriters whose work is read by all ofNotre Dame 
and Saint Mary's. Call joe Murphy at 239-7471. ND/SMC students and faculty are encouraged to apply. No experience necessary. 
Garry Trudeau 


Quote of the day 
"God  does  not  play  
dice."  
AlbertEinstein  
(1879-1955)  

"ie~P._O_i_n__t____________________________________________w_e_d_n_e_sd_a~y_,o__ct_o_b_er_9_,_I_9_B_s_-p~a~g~e__7 
ND students should be aware of apartheid system 
This week is Apartheid Awareness Week at Notre Dame and it seems to be an appropriate time for a note ofexplanation. Members ofthc Anti-Apartheid Network have been distribut­ing information sheets and having petitions signed in the dining halls and have been some­what surprised few students arc aware ofwhat apartheid is and what significance it has for members of the Notre Dame community. I was personally disappointed with comments such as: "I like apartheid" or "Apartheid is good, why change it?" 
Patrick A. Mullin 
guest column 

Apartheid (pronounced a-par-tate) is a system of radically discriminatory laws which separate the white minority (pop. 24.2 million) and allow the whites to exercise political hegemony over the Republic of South Africa while denying the black population citizenship. 
Apartheid, after the accession to power of the Afrikaaner-controlled National Party in 194H, came to mean "separate development."This means the ultimate goal of the South African whites is to remove all blacks from South Africa and let them form their own. independent countries out ofwhat are now the black "homelands" (bantustans) that lie on the outskirts ofSouth Africa. 
What the whites obviously have in mind is maintaining control of the agriculturally and minerally rkh heartland of South Africa while leaving the blacks to take care of themselves in the wastelands that constitute the bantustans. "White areas" presently constitute H7 percent of South Africa, though the whites only represent 16 percent of the country's population. Massive population resettlements have taken place over the years; non-whites from "black spots" all over South Africa have been and continue to be deported from the areas in which they have lived for decades, in order to make room for new white commmunitics. 
Blacks arc loaded on government trucks with all their belongings anu taken to shanty towns in the bantustans. There, they find little or no economic vitality, yet the South African government expects them to be able to make a living for themselves. Poverty and its worst consequences, hunger and malnutrition arc widespread -especially among children · and the government provides little in the way of social services (besides a paltry monthly stipend) to improve conditions. Worst of all, the government intends to eventually make the bantustans independent countries thus relieving the whites of all their obligation to the blacks. 
But blacks are needed in white South Africa; they provide the bulk of the work force in industry, mining and urban services. They are the horse that pulls the carriage of South African industrialization and western-style prosperity. Without cheap, black labor, South Africans would not be able to reap the profits of one of the world's richest deposits of mineral wealth ( esp. gold and uranium). 
So, the white-controlled government has instituted what are known as 'influx control' laws that regulate the movement of blacks in and out of the 'white areas.' Blacks must find work within 72 hours or they will be subject to forced removal back to the bantustans. The greatest demand, of course, is for strong men to work in industry and mines. Thus women, 
children, and older people are  considered  
'superfluous  appendages'  and  forced  to  
remain in the bantustans.  

Men leave home for a year at a time · usually only coming home for Christmas-while wives and children are left to take care ofthemselves in the desolate 'homelands.' They often go for months without hearing or receiving any money from their husbands. 
All blacks are required to carry passbooks at all times and must present them upon demand. If they are caught without these passes, as hundreds ofthousands ofblacks are every year, they are thrown in jail for weeks at a time, often to the complete ignorance of their relatives. "Pass laws" have been the object ofa great deal ofprotest because ofthe categorization and dehumanization which they represent and help to implement. 
Apartheid's most basic mechanism for control and oppression is the exclusion of non-whites from a share of political power in South Africa. Despite the fact that for white South Africans public policy-making is carried out through a western-style, representative democratic, blacks are, and (until 1984) "coloreds" and Asians were denied the right to vote and be represented in the republic. 
When participation in political power is denied, groups that have been deprived of normal means of influencing political decision-making tend to turn to protests and demonstrations to express their opinions. The South ·African state, supponed by the police and military, has been quick to stifle dissent of this form by making political demonstrations against apartheid illegal, and by jailing -under the charges of "treason" and "communism" · those involved in such protests. 
Dissenters, especially the leaders of the numerous anti-apartheid movements (such as Nelson Mandela, Allan Boesak, Steve Biko, and -Beyers Naude ), have been subject to: banning, which restricts travel and contact with other people (to one at a time) and bars writing, appearance at public meetings, and contact with the media; detention without trial; torture; and death in prison ( 6'i people since 
1963). 
Other aspects of apartheid include dehumanizing laws similar to the "Jim Crow" 
P.O.BoxQ 
Joyce has served ND well in past 33 years 
Dear Editor: 
lbis is in response toJeff Griffin's assenions 
reKafding Father Joyce and his future hiring 
practices. Obviously. this student knows very 
little about the man and his many contribu­
tions to this university. 
Joyce has headed the faculty board in con­trol of athletics for 33 years. Notre Dame has amassed one ofthe most successful records in intercollegiate athletics, and a large percentage of their athletes graduate and ob­tain advanced degrees. Joyce also oversees the fiduciar matters of Notre Dame. He has held this responsibility during troubled times, that saw many colleges close and tuitions skyrocket. ReKafding his capabilities in han­dling his many duties, which may include hiring personnel for imponant university positions, Joyce's record is readily available and speaks for itself. What is often left silent, and smothered under letters such as Griffin's, is who the man Is. 
Joyce Is one of the most caring and Chris­tian individuals that I have ever met. Making such comments about a human being who is so totally and sincerely committed to this school and the student body amounts to slander in my opinion. He truly cares about the members of the Notre Dame community, and he does not deserve to be used as a scapegoat because a coach did not live up to the expectations of the fans. 
Griffin, if you are going to judge this man's capabilities in fulfilling his many respon­siblliities based upon four or five football seasons, then I think the only aspect of this issue that is attributable to high school is your mentality. 
Nancy Fitzpatrick Notre Dame Law student 

Rozum stereotyped 
dents dismiss any stereotypes because they only serve to suppon immature attitudes. 
We would like to thank you Rozum for ack­nowledging the "fine and proud" women of Saint Mary's that you have met. Perhaps by the time you are a senior, you will have met many more "fine and proud" Saint Mary's students than you ever knew existed. 
Rosemary Hattrup Terri Geraghty LeMansHall 

all Saint Mary's women The Observer·should be 
DearEditor: 
In response to Jean Rozum's editorial com­ment concerning the "interesting" conversa­tion between a Notre Dame woman and a Saint Mary's woman, we propose that the problem lies not within the minds of Saint Mary's women, but in the minds that take such casual comments and apply them to existing stereotypes. 
Perhaps Rozum's "creative" dialogue is fac­tual as she emphasizes, yet this husband­seeking woman that she depicts can obviously be found at any college campus across the country. It is disturbing that this conversation is made into such a major issue simply be­cause the one woman happens to be from Saint Mary's. 
Saint Mary's women do not need to be told where the "core" of our problem lies from a mere freshman who has been in the Saint Mary's-Notre Dame community for a few short months. We believe that IfRozum were to talk to a few upperclasswomen from both institutions, she would discover that most stu­
more careful with ads 
DearEditor: 
I am writing to inform you of my disgust with an advertisement which appeared in the Oct. 4 issue of The Observer. This panicular advenisement was on page 14 and occupied approximately two-thirds ofthe page. It's title was "IS Notre Dame Still Catholic?" and was apparently sponsored by Fidelity Magazine. I am disgusted with this advertisement and with The Observer's decision to print it be­cause it is sensational propaganda unfitting for a newspaper ofas high a caliber as The Obser­ver. Statements used in the ad such as "find out what happens to the babies after they go through the meat grinder and end up at Notre Dame" and "the research is going on right now in the shadow of the Golden Dome" are, simply put, cheap shots at Catholic emotions. 
My instincts tell me that this advertisement was intended to sell magazines and not to reform modern Catholic education at Notre laws which segregatec American blacks from whites. Racial intermarriage was until recently forbidden, and restaurants, rcstrooms and other public places are labeled "white only." 
Hopefully, members of the Notre Dame community will take advantage ofthe movies, lectures, and information tables on campus this week to inform themselves in more depth about apartheid and the effect it has of fellow humans in South Africa. The "Rally Against Apartheid," which will be held on the steps of the administration building this Friday at 4 p.m., will also provide an opponunity for expressing opposition to apartheid and solidarity with those who are standing up for the rights of non-whites in South Africa (this includes numerous whites). 
In addition to trying to Increase awareness, 
..

members of the Anti-Apartheid Network are raising the question ofwhether the University should withdraw its stock in companies that operate in South Africa or take some form of action to demonstrate that apartheid is incompatible with the christian values it seeks to propagate. Similar self-questioning has been going on in schools around the country. 
Disinvestment is an important issue because it presents a rare opportunity for us to take significant action on our (hopefully) shared beliefll in the rights ofall human beings as equal creations of God. For Notre Dame to come to a consensus which reflects the true feelings of all members of the community on the disinvestment question, everyone should inform themselves on the basic pros and cons. 
Take advantage ofthis week to learn more. 
Patrick A. Mullen is a senior gor•ernment and civil engineering major at Notre Dame. He is the vice chairman ofthe Anti-Apartheid Network. 
Dame or elsewhere; however, this point is 
basically moot. The fact remains that his ad· 
verisement is blatant propaganda. 
Whether the individual who wrote the 
"hard-hitting sequel" actually has evidence to 
the effect that Notre Dame is contributing to 
the unethical fetal experimentation is not the 
point, either. Even if he or she did possess 
such evidence, this advertisement would still 
be blatant propaganda. 
My complaint lies mainly with The Obser­
ver. Although one could cite the First Amend­
ment or the people's right to information in 
this instance, I would hope that The Observer 
would have too much self-respect to print 
such garbage, no matter what the advertise­
ment revenue might be. 
jennifer L. Cantwell Farley Hall 

ND community invited to join Friday's rally 
DearEditor: 

In light of the current crisis in Southern Africa and the evil nature of the apartheid sys­tem, we, along with 123 other signees of this letter, believe that Notre Dame should revise its investment policy towards that country. We invite the student body and faculty to par­ticipate massively in this Friday's 4 p.m. rally to be held at the steps of the Administration Building. 
Santiago O'Donnell Pablo Czarnik Colleen M. Cotter Notre Dame students 


Editorial Board Operations Board 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager.. .... David Stephenllch Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan Controller ....................... .... William J. Highducheck News Editor ................................... Keith Harrison Jr Advertising Manager .................. .. .... Jim Hagan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Systems Manager. .... Mark B. Johnson 
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Production Manager.. . ...... John A. Men nell 
adminiStration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­
Sports Editor ........................................... Jeff Blumb 
Sible Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy 
taries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is 
Viewpoint Editor ......... : .......................... Joe Murphy
available to all members of the commumty and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches 
campus. through letters. is encouraged. 
Copy Chief ..............................................Frank Lipo Founded November 3, 1966 
-

---
-----------------~-----­
Wednesday, October 9, 1985-page 8
Sports Briefs 
The ND volleyball team w~u play Loyola (Ill.) on the road tonight at 7:30p.m.-Tbe Observer 
The NDJV hockey team will be meeting tonight at 7:15p.m. in the hockey pro shop in the ACC. Call Marty at 277­7571 for more information.-Tbe Observer 
Prospective SMC basketball players will begin practice tonight from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. Anyone who is in­terested should contact the Angela Athletic Facility for Information about physicals. -Tbe Observer 
Prospective SMC varsity swimmers will 
be meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. -Tbe Observer 
Prospective ND basketballwalk.-ons will 
try out for the men's team on Tuesday, Oct. 15, from 8 p.m. to 10 
p.m. Anyone who is interested should report to the ACC auxiliary gym ready to play at 7:45p.m. on that day. Call Coach Kilcullen In the basketball office (239-5337) for more information.· Tbe Obser­
ver 

Open co-ree volleyball games will be played every Wednesday night from 9 p.m. to 10:45 p.m. in the Angela Ath­letic Facility. -Tbe Observer 
see BRIEFS, page 9 

Read 
Football Notebook 
every Thursday in The Observer 

The Obsen•er Notrt: Dam<: offict:. locatl'd on the third noor of LafortUnl' 
,..­
Stud.:nt Ct:ntt:r. acncpts classitkd dd\Trtisin!( from') a.m. until ·I p.m.. :0.\onda\ 
throu~h Fridav The Obsert•er Saint :\tan·, office. locatnl on th<· third tloor of 
Haggar Cotlt:ge Cent<·r. acc·.:pts cla"ifinb from 12:50 p m until -~ p m.. ~lon­
dav though l'riday Deadline t<>r n<·xt-da\ l'la"itlnb b -~ p.m. All classifit·ds 
must hl' prl'paid.l'ithn in pnson or hv mail.< :harg<' is I 0 n·nts pt:r fi\'l' charac­
Classifieds 
ttcrs t:r dav. 

LoaT: A NAVY M.UE SPORT COAT IN  2 ol ue want to go to CINCY 10.11 We  NEED TWO USC TICKETS REAL BAD'  Need 2 STUDENT TICKETS FOR THE  HELP!!! S$S NEED 2 USC STU TICK­ 
NOTICES  FARLEY'S BASEMENT DURING SATURDAY NIGHT'S SYR.I PICKED UP  need ellhw a ride or riderleo ~C8ll Moe a141731f int••ted  3457  USC GAME, preferably in the Senior aec­tion .... WIU. PAY $$$$!!!! Linda V.  ETS!!! CALL DAVE 3526  
A NAVY BLUE SPORT COAT THAT I  HEAR YEI Little Siller coming up fore  (2111)277-6656.  MN GOPHERS DESTROYED PURDUE  
BELIEVED  WAB  MINE  BECAUSE  IT  WANTED!  Need  a  ride  to Cleveland.  OLE MISS! The '­h• ne'er _,.  4!>-15!WHATTHE HEU.?!  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082  HAD A "'SPECIALTY CLOTHING, PIT· lWUfiQH PINNA."' TAO INSIDE IT. I BOUOHT MINE AT THE SAME STORE.  Leeving 10/11, returning 10/13. Wiling to rent a car if needed. P'--call Krilltin 284-5220.  NOTRE DAME h-eat home! ClodM of c.eh involved, wile lake GA or STUD Tix! PLEEEEZE HELP! Calle 3457.  CANDLEII-Happy Birlflday! Love Mom, Ded and the MEOW BOYS!  LADIES, WE HAVE A PROBLEM I WE NEED YOUR HELP! PLEASE WITHOLD  
TYPING CALL CHfiiS 2J4-IW7  MY COAT HAB 3 001.0 BUTTONS ON THE CUFF AND IS FUU.Y LINED. THE  Need  3  USC  OAI.  Wil  pay  any  UMAN PLUNCII  YOUR "FAVORS" FROM GERRY'S BOYS UNTIL WE SEE SOME REAL  
ONE I HAVE IS NOT FUU.Y LINED. IF I  r.-onable price. Cal Chrie 18118  UMAN PLUNCII  FOOTBAU...  THE  NATION  THANKS  
EXPERT TYPING 277-81534 AFTER 5:30 BUSINESS EXPRESS, INC. Wordpr...,_ng and typing 272-8827 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7008 PRO-TYPE Over 15 y-.up. Specieliz­ing in atudent ~­law ~­di•  HAVE YOUR COAT OR YOU HAVE MINE, PLEASE CALL ..KE AT 11011 i.os:r·;;eM:Al-il-·E··(aR.Evi·-~--oCilo BEADED BRACELET!!! I aleo loa! the tiger'l eye bracelet! PLEASE call STEP· HANIE at 1327 if you have found either onelll WOULD BE ETERNALLY GRATE­FUL (if that ian't good enough how doel REWAROaound?). THANKS!! HAVE YOU EVER LOST SOMETHING  FOR SALE 1977 01dl Cut Sup Brougham: 350 V-8: pa,pb,A/C,T-Topa,Cruiae,Recent Eagle Sta,tOOwCuatomStereo.Sharp!Ftobert ] 256-11346. For Sale: Studer1t F'ball Tix. Call 272­3832.  NEED USC 0A TIXS WIU. PAY WEU. CALL 264-54114 BOSTON COMERS LOOKING FOR USC TICKETS. WIU.INO TO PAY$$$. CALL HELEN 277-4324 EVENINGS 6:()().11:00 NEED USC TIX WIU.ING TO PAY BIG S$S RALPH 2n-o177  UMAN PLUNCII Eaplore a ,_horizon ... lake the Urban Plunge. A 48 hr. inn« city immereion during Chrietm. breek. Experience"""" ditiorw ol poverty and injulltioo while i!'l­creaing your a--of what ie being done to llhviate lh-problema. Do the PLUNGE! UMAN PLUNCII UMAN PLUNCII UMAN PLUNCII  YOU. HAPPY BIRTHDAY MOLLY Ya'l beat be fixin' to party TEXAS lliyle. If your lucky, I mighf even teach you the "Mystery Oanc:e". Elvie Coatelo CHICAGo...CHICAOO ... CHICAOO Win a trip to ChiCIIQO for youraelf and 3 oth .. friendl. Two nighta in the Windy City • al ~ paid. The lucky winner wil  
~orw. reeumee. 277-5833 START YOUII CA!Iallt NOW EARN MONEY AND WORK ON FORTUNE 500 COMPANIES' MARKET­ING PROGRAMS ON CAMPUS. PART­TIME (FLEXIBlE) HOURS EACH WEEK. WE OIVE REFERENCES. CALL 1-Bil0­ VERY SPECIAL TO YOU? If not, can you imagine how you would feel if you loa! a pr-from your boyfriend or girlfriend? PRETTY ROTTEN, HUH? Wei that'e how I feel right now becauae I loa! the 001.0 BRACELET. my boyfriend gave me. It ie _,_,ere on the 1'<*1 ~ LeMaN and Sorin. PLEASE HELP ME  TICKETS NEED 2 OA'S FOR THE ARMY GAME.  NEED 2 USC 0A TIX HAVE 2 STUDENT TIX FOR ALL OTHER GAMES TO TRADE AND$$$$ CALL REO 1 596 HAVE 2 STUD TIX FOR ALL GAMES CALL REO 15115 MOM AND DAD FLYING OUT FROM LA  Bill: With only 200 bcketa avai-for the O.Y.B.O.. I am noteureif I cangetALLmy new men there. Oec:ieiona, decieione ... Candy  receive a car, a room at the ChiCIIQO Mer­riot, dinner both nighta at exclueive ChiCIIQO reetauranta. and 4 ticketa to Second City TV. What a bargain. How do you win ? 1) Acquire $3, 2) purch-a ticket atlhe dining hallobbi• Thu,.. and Fri., 3) tel your buddiM. Your lucky ticket wil be picked at CHICAGO NIOHT - 
243-68711. PITT88UROH CLUB-FALL BREAK BUS $56/Roundtrip $40/0n.ny LEAVES: SAT. OCT. 19 6:00 PM FROM: C.C.E.IHOLY CROSS(SMC) RETURNS: FRI. OCT. 25 1:00 PM FROM: GREYHOUND TRERMINAL IN DOWNTOWN PITT. SION-UPS: -­THURS. OCT. 10 6:00PM Little ThM1er in LaFortune QuMiiorw: cal A.J. x 1844  FINO IT. If you do, C8ll Judy at 284-5083. THANK· YOU I!! LOST: BLUE BACK PACK WITH MAROON TRIM, CONTAINS A JACKET AND A CHECK-BOOK (THE CHECKS ARE ALL CANCELED) AND IS LABELED WITH AN AIRLINE TAO. CALL 3211 OR 32011. LOST: THURS. OCT 3 WILSON 'SURE SHOr BASKETBALL AT THE ROCK. IF  CALL SUE 284·5477. I NIEO GM FOil AIIIIY I uac.m­GOII FREE SEX FOR 2 ARMY GA'S CALL CLAYTON AT 1373 ALSO PY CASH WIU. PAY BIO BUCKS FOR 3 ARMY OA'S AND 2 LSU OA'S CALL STEVE AT 1733/1757  FOR USC OAME. IT'S THEIR FIRST AND ONLY NO FOOTBAU.. OAME! I NEED 2 OA'S FOR THEM. AM WIU.ING TO TRADE 2 ARMY GA'S OR PAY CASH. PLEASE CALL GARY AT 1776. THANKS! WANTED: (2) 0A USC TIX-BIU. (617)746-8700 I HAVE 4 ARMY, NEED 2 NAVY. LET'S MAKE A DEAL. TOM 1670.  BRIOOET'S BARGAINS: Oood during al open hou,. on apacified deya. MON I TUES -$.60 OAAFTS...WEO -$.75 ROOT BEER SHOTS ... THURS -$1.00 MOLSONS ... FRI-$.75 WATERMELON SHOTS ... $.35 HOT MUNCHIES DAILY. ································································ RIDE NEEDED TO CENTRAL PA FROM SOMEONE OOING EAST ON I 80 FOR OCTOBER BREAK! CALL MAURA 264­4200  Fridey, Oct. 11, ~~ am at the S. dining hal. I DAYS 'TIL HONEYIIOONEM TIME! Liaa: The harpe -ean experience. huh? I feel ~ke -ng you out but f don't know how to get a hold of you. If you want to go out eome time, get in touch ,.;th me at room 711· you remember the rMt?  
LOST/FOUND I  FOUND PLEASE CALL x1212 NOW I All IIIQQINGIIII WHOIVIIt DICIDID IIY DIMII JACKET-WITH THE TWO-TONI, INAPS, A ZIPPIII  NEE02ARMYOA'S. CALL JIM AT 14811. PLEASE HELP AN UNFORTUNATE SENIOR whOM family h• MVer _,  BOSTON COMERS LOOKING FOR USC TICKETS. WIU.ING TO PAY $$$. CALL HELEN 277-4324 EVENINGS 6:00-11:00  OKTOBERFEST SENIOR CLASS OKTOBERFEST  HIY HEIIIII, HAPPY111fll Now that your 18 remember the111ULEI and if you can't do that klclc hflll In tile and Nn f«rour lfel  
LOST DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT RING. REWARD OFFERED. IF FOUND, PLEASE CONTACT ALICE 232-601111.  OFF IUEVU. WAI WORTH 110M TO THEil THAN Ill-YOU ME WRONQIITHAT JACKET IS WORTH 1110111 TO liE THAN ANYTHING­ Non Dame!!!! Do you have 3 OAI for the usc g~me? VVil pay $1 Linda v. (2111)277-6666.  NEED 2 USC OA'S. CALL CHRIS AT 14811.  FRIDAY OCTOBER 11 AUTHENTIC GERMAN FOOD, BEER AND MUSIC ALUMNI/SENIOR ClUB 6pm-2am COME EARLY! $3 COVER CHARGE  WE LOVE YA FRAN, Calh, Schmany,ltetlloor HAPPY BIRTHDAY BARBRA I!  
LOST: cit blue ~In eouth dining 1*1 11/30 .round 5:50p.m. con!MD: Tl35  COULD YOU PLLUI FIND ITIN YOUII H~ TO II~IIN IT TO ~ LYC*SIJI281111  GA « etudlnt tla f« LSUwUIC...­ NEaD USC TICKETS! Wil apprec:i81e your Help Cal Stephen at 11159  FREE 0LASS MUO WHILE SUPPLIES LAST.  I Hope You Have A OrNI Day Bec:auae I Think Your NUMBER ONE. Jull remem­ber on your next birthday you'l be legal  
~­~and-· pink h~ter. t.nd millie, ~net r~ and mouthpiece, begimlng French textbook, ~­blue notebook, two computer dieca. If eomeone hM it~ C81181DM 814563 or bring to 838 P.E. No quMiiorw ..ud. LOST: a REO women'e jKket in the lllnry or in Cuehing. PLEASE!!! con..a Robin 81 x4030 If found. u.r:er-,.,..,..,.__...._. IMr nlteln South Dint,. lt.ll. c:-t.IIWUye,Ftwlch.aa-..... Ill lltlllooltaJ'd .. -hllppJ puppf If JOU _.... NIUm u-,no .,.__ ......_c:.ll KAitRN Ill 21...211 ..., "-· FOUND: FOOTBAU.. TICKETS. PATRICK MOORE, PLEASE CALL  FOR RENT RENT A COLOR TV OR MICROWAVE OVEN. LOW RATES. COLOR CITY /COI..l.EOATE RENTALS INC.,2597661 SHARE 3BR HOME WITH 2 NONSMOK­ING OR. STUDENTS. $130ft UTIL. 232· 6327 WANTED  c:.ll Chuclc 1111104. need4 tixa to wn1y call2723491 (a-) NEEDED-USC OA'e. Wil pay top$! Cal Al287-1111111. I NEED 2 OR 3 USC OA'S CALL MIKE AT 1605 OR STOP BY 304 ORACE, THE DIVEII -need USC CIA'S and STU TIX wiling to be a.tlve ca11212-4tU Need many USC GA tix. Wil pay big buckl! P'--Clll\2811-3477. NEED 2 OA'S for USC OAME. CALL LAURA3839 ·  HELP! HELP! NEED 2 ARMY OA'SI WIU. PAY BIO BUCKS! CALL TEO AT 4073 ORBOBAT2199! PUASIII MY FOLKS WIU. BE HERE FOR USC; THEY HAVEN'T SEEN A OAME YET. I'M A SR. I THEIR YOUNGEST CHILO. I'D BE IN­CREOIBL Y GRATEFUL IF YOU WOULD SEU. ME 2 OA'S. NAME YOUR PRICE-I AM DESPERATE. THANKS. CALL RICK AT 1750. I need 3 Army Student Tix and 4 USC OA'e or Student Tix. Wll pay top $, C8ll 1844-0an I need 4 Army & 4 USC GA'a cal Mike 30115  CAMPY'S PIZZA NOW DELIVERING TO CAMPUS 21515-0837 MON THRU THUR 5:00 TO 10:00 FRI SAT 5:00 TO 11:00 LEWIS FROZEN YOOURT SHOP OPEN MON. WED. I SUN. 8:30-11:30 TRICIA THANKS FOR THE HAIRCUT AND A OREAT TIME. OK What'e FAT and FUNNY and to.! f« tlllrty,...? PHIU. Y PHIU.Y PHIU. Y PHIU. Y 8pota erellilavei-for October breek BUS; one -.y and roundtrip. Leev• Oct 18 Will retul'l'll Oct 25. Price ie $77. Cal Dave Graham 3270. YOU'VE GOT STYLE .... THAT'S WHAT ALL THE OIRLS SAY. GeVIOUSLY.  everywhere in the wor1cl. lake your time 20 ie a fun age to be. AI my love, OHS MOM, DAD, AND VIN, I LOVE YOU! I CAN'T WAIT TO SEE YOU ... SUZANNE LoaT: ONE ROOMMATE. Blew town Sunday n9't. LM1 _,at The Obeerver olfioo? Male, 5' 11," dark hair. "'---to "Mar1<."1f you have any info, C8111373. FOR SALE: Bed, deal<, -drobe, Macl!'l­toah, and Sony. LYONS CHAPEL TONIGHT 10:30 ll'l­formational meeting on APARTHEID Happy 19th Birthday Clare! Hope you have a good day but if you're loof<ing for Purdue you're way ol1. p.e. Bewwe ohpit· woman  
LAURA AT 272-3764 TO CLAIM THEM. FOUND: Foolball Ticket Book, cal Mic­ Need ride to Defton any -end-Cal Maria4174.  Need 1 USC OA for So. cat. Dad. Wll pay good$. Cal P.tt1 at 2353.  I need two NAVY OA'e. Name your price. p'-C8ll Bob at 283-1143.  THANKS FOR A OREAT TIME! SOMEONE WHO DOESN'T LIKE SWEAT EITHER.  -TO  FLY FROM O.C.(NArL) TO SOUTH BEND FOR ONLY $110 FOR USC OAME.ARRIVE FRI 9 AM CALL JOHN  
...  h...-1250 to iclenllly. LOST: ALRIOHT, I'VE HAD IT. ON 11/24 MY BlUE BACK PACK WAB STOLEN FROM THE SOUTH DININO HALL. I HAVERUNTHISADFORAWEEKANOI HAVE HAD NO LUCK. I AM REALLY PISSEOIIT WABAN 01.0 THING, BUT I WANT IT BACK. MY ROOMMATE'S MAAOON JACKET WAB IN THERE AND IF YOU DON'T OIVE ANYTHING ELSE BACK, PLEASE ATLEAST OIVE ME THE JACKET BACK. IF YOU HAVE IT, PLEASE SHOW SOME COMMON DECENCY ANO CALL 3884. THANK YOU VERY, VERY MUCH! LoeTPOCKET WATCH-SILVER,NO CHAIN. LOST NEAR NSH ON SEPT.26. IF FOUND CALL 808 234-1515711 LOST RINO Sterling eiiY• w/ turquoiM etone on bird deeign If found, ~C8ll 1256.11'1 very email, and h•eantirnental value! Loet Oct. 4.  RIDE NEEDED TO/FROM TERRE HAUTE FOR OCT.BREAK. WIU. SHARE COSTS. MARIA-5193 JOB8-JOBihiOBS-JOBS Stil need StoiC atudenta to participate in a lu~ng c:ernpalgn. Wll contact 24,000 alumnM,1*-.and friendl by phone. &pec:i.ty intereetecl in IJirll who .. etaying hera during October breu. Cal Pat at 5361 for an intervi-. lola ol $$! RIDE NEEDED OR OFFERED TO U OF I FOR 2 OF US. LEAVE 10/11, RETURN 10/13. CALL 4083. I'M OESPERATEIII RIDE NEEDED TO LAKE CHAS., LA FOR FALL BREAK. CAN LEAVE FRI. AFTERNOON. SHARE USUAL. CALL KERI-4072 ... QUICK! HILPf I NIB) ONE AIIIIY GA FOIIIIIY DAD. WIU. PAY M .UCKS. CALL ~2101  NEED 4 TICKETS FOR MISSISSfPPI GAMEINAREALBAOWAYIIIWIU.PAY BIO BUCKSIIIII CALL PAUL 0. AT 3642 OR3640. NEEO PENN STATillXIII Wll trtwle 2 Navy OA'e For 2 Penn State OA'I lfJOU'VelfCitPenn .....tla, ..t..rylll21112 NEED TIX FOR MISS. OAME! WIU. PAY TOP DOLLAR! REALLY!!! CALL MARY AT 1323 IF YOU'RE WIU.ING TO' NEGOTIATE!! HELP Ill MIU.IONAIRE RECLUSE NEEDS 3 OAB AND 2 STUDENT TIX TO ARMY. WIU. PAY S$S CALL BIU. EVE AND MORNINGS 2886296 HEY I  NEED 2-4 USC TIX OA OR STUD KATH· LEEN 277-1464 NEED 6 OA'S FOR NAVY OAME. CALL MARY AT 264-5434. WIU. PAY$$$! . ................... !.........•..............••.....•........... NEED TWO GA'S FOR ARMY. CALL SMC4180. PERSONALS If ~ wil pnte~ce bel"ff nc~onellor a While, ~ wil undetetand that lidonel chlniCIWI..lOmeii,.. men rNithan people with bodiN andh_,..,_ -Richard a.ch, 1....__ OAR HOUSE: COLO BEER I LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N., 1  NEED 2 AIIIIY O.A.'S. IF YOU CAN HELP, CALL 3433 AND ASK FOR MELISSA. Y•. I admit it, I want to go to Naw JerMy for October breek. And y•. I admit it I want to be hera for the Army Wid usc game~. Finaly. I have to admit that I need a ride to the Oarden stat•. Wll pay the uiUel. P'-eC81134110 If you can ol1er me a ride . 111eo1o1r Faru111 .......,.: "'--do no1 ,_ tile ~on 11r lllary Dovte -Lucr o·......,_,tonltht 01 10:00 P.M. -141 o.......,._,_ auppar~ ,..., ..._ .......... "One 01 Ill.-.,.,Alloa ... " "You and what -r.llllph?"  1069 Long lalancl Club llua the only bua to Long leland il leaving FRIDAY Oct. 18 going to HempatMd bue terminal, and it wil return to N.D. Sunday Oct. 27. Round trip ie $76.00 One way trip ie $45.00 Cal Pete or Paul at 2448 for info and r....-va­tiorw. CONGRATULATIONS TO OUR FAVORITE NEWS COUPLE OF ALL TIME!!! Happy 8-day Man<. Love, 8. ATTENTION: TODAY IS JOHNNY CASH'S AI..IAB BOOEY DEVEREUX'S B-OAY! CALL HER 4 A "SWEATY BUT FUN TIME" AT 284-4215. LOVE YA, BOO! AI.., KAR, COL & MARY. Happy 19th b-day Moly Meyer-C8115521 to wieh !hie cute Aggie girl a happy b-day. Love, K,L,L,C I E.  
OOING TO PITT THE 11 COMING BACK  WIU. TRADE 2 ARMY, NAVY, MfSSI8-·  BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  
LOST EYEOlASSES, BROWN CASE.  13. RIDERS  NEEDED.  CALL ELAINE  SIPPI,  Watch out!! The "FLING QUEEN" ie on a  Hello?  Wow!  What  a  weird  wonderful  
ON  ST.MARY'S  CAMPUS  10/5  IF  272-7245  OR LSU OAI FOR  Help ua avoid the Beantown bluM. Oive  rol. Lall weekend Dillon, next weekend  -end! Right Kege? Tainted love! Did  
FOUND PLEASE CALL PAT NO 1684  uac 81uc1ent,. GM  ue a ride to Bolton or vicinity for October  Alumni. What next?  you Ike the ehower Cooke? 1'1 talk to you  
NEED RIDE TO NORTHERN N.J. FOR  214-7412 JIJIIIIY 0111 JOHN  breek. Cal Maria4174.  Jar.-. See ya eround. Love, Slice.  
LOBT:  OAAY  EDDIE  BAUER  BACK  BREAK WIU. SHARE EXPENSES CALL  O.K.  Weill.  October  II  ie  Laura  Wolnlki'I  
PACK  WITH  aACK  STRAPS  AND  FRANK 1502  BED  'N  BREAKFABT.  FOOTBALL  birthday. Wieh her a happy clay cau..ehe  ALLYSON,  HAPPY  16. YOU  DON'T  
SEVERAL BOOKS IN NORTH DININO  WEEKENDS,  NO  I  SMC  PARENTS.  '"-whothe "Fing OuHn," ie and ehe  KNOW HOW MUCH I MISS AND LOVE  
HALL  ON  10-4.  IF  FOUND  PLEASE  NEED RIDE TO SO. MINNESOTA OVER  NIEO 2 IIIUISSIPPI 11X. _. llalllll  TWO NITE MINIMUM. 10 MINS. FROM  ie .-oawonderful girt who Noire Dame il  YOU. LET'S 00 NOTHING FOREVER.  
CALL 14115.  BREAK. SALLY 2811-5243  1a1.  CAMPUS. CAL.L211HI152.  ~to have!  N!J.E.  
....  

The Observer Wednesday, October 9, 1985-page 9 

APPboco 

Dave Stteb pitched eight Impressive Innings last night as the Toronto Bluejays defeated the Kansas Ctty Royals, 6-1, In the first game of the American League playoffs. Details of the Royals' vic­tory are on page 12. 

.-.-THE COLLEGE OF SCIENCE-.. DISTINGUISHED SCHOLAR LECTURE SERIES 
Presents 

PROFESSOR JOHN D. DOW Freimann Professor of Physics 

Semiconductors in Computers of the Future: Superlattices in Gallium Arsenide 
OCTOBER 1Oth 8:00PM MEMORIAL LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
Women's Soccer Club wants .500 record, varsity status 
With fall break two weeks away, the Notre Dame Women's Soccer Club hopes to even out its fall out­door record with its final matches against Marquette University and Wheaton College. 
In this past weekend's match, the Irish beat 
Nazareth College, 2-0. The two scores were by 
junior Kerry Haverkamp and freshman Susan Haling. 
In discussing this season, Karen Moritz said that this year's team has been relying heavily on the freshmen players and that the freshmen bring new enthusiasm and competition to the team. 
"The amount oftime a player gets is based on the participation in practice," says Moritz. "Once someone joins, they are on the team and playing time is based on their attendence to practice." 
The team hopes that by reaching the .500 mark, it can achieve varsity status. 
"The enthusiasm for soccer is there," says Moritz. "And hopefully if we have a decent year, the ad­ministration will look into moving us up to varsity. 
"In reviewing this year, I would say that this year hasn't been that rewarding, because we just haven't played to our potential," says Moritz. "We have a lot of good individual players but we just couldn't gel together as a team. On the other hand, though, this year has been more fun because we have a lot more dedicated players and this causes a lot of compte­lion, which makes every player better." 

Tom Yoon 
Club Corner 

After the final match against Wheaton, when the weather gets much colder, the soccer team will move inside and has an indoor season in which it plays about I 5 games between November and February. 
WATER POLO: When the Notre Dame Water Polo team traveled to the Wisconsin Tournament last weekend, it went into the tournament with high hopes even though it was competing against teams in the Big Ten. 
The Irish came away with second place, beating Northwestern and Wisconsin by identical scores of ll-8, but losing to Ohio State in the finals. 
It was Notre Dame's second loss to Ohio State in two weeks. In the Loyola Tournament earlier this year, the Irish lost to the Buckeyes and eighth­ranked Loyola, while defeating Northwestern. 
"By getting second in the Wisconsin Tournament, our future for the regional tournament looks real good for next spring," says junior Steve Guenther. 

•

• The{)bseDB~ • 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant Sports Editor 
•

• 
Questions about this position should be directed 

• 
to Jeff Blumb at ,the .Observer office. Personal 

• 
statements and resumes are due Wednesday, 


•

•• October 9, at 5 p.m. • 
Jays 
continuedfrompage 12 
ning that forced baseball commis­sioner Peter Ueberroth to put on his rain coat. 
Also among the crowd of 39,11 5 ­a few thousand shy of a sellout -was Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mul­roney. 
The Blue Jays, who won 99 games this season, were just 24-26 against left-banders, and Howser hoped to take advantage of that. 
But Leibrandt was not effective, and that left the task facing the AL west champion Royals to Black. 
Domer 
continuedfrom page 12 
undergrad division in 42:50. Sop­homore Anne Ducey finished in · 4 3:05 for third place in the division. For the undergraduate men, Mark 
Brogioli was second in 3'i:24, and 
Randy Battistoni's 35:43 gave him 
third. 
In the three-mile race,Jaqui Healy 
won the women's undergrad divi­
sion in 19:48, followed by Colleen 
Cain in 20:08 and Sarah Bernard in 
20:27. 
Other division leaders were as fol­
lows: in the three-mile, top male 
grad student was Paul Gallagher, top 
female grad student was Lynne 
Cooper, top faculty male was Jay 
Wood, and top faculty female was 
Kathy McCann. 
In the six-mile event, the top finis­her in the women's grad division was Uese Dall, the top male faculty finisher was Scott Manwarig. There were no women faculty members who finished the race. 
Other three-and six-mile runs have been scheduled by NVA for the spring . 


Weds. October 9 
-. 
The Observer Wednesday, October 9, 1985-page 10 
Michigan ranked third in AP Top Twenty Poll 
weeks of the poll, was beaten 28-6 by unranked Arizona and fell to 16th this week. 
Idle Florida State was fourth againMichigan's Wolverines continue with three first-place votes and 993 to claw their way toward the top of points, while OklahomaState movedThe Associated Press college foot­one rung up the ladder to fifth withball poll. Only Iowa and Oklahoma the other first-place vote and 896remain in their way. 

points.
When the season began, Michigan Arkansas, a 41-0 winner overwasn't even ranked. Two polls into Texas Christian, jumped four spotsthe season, the Wolverines still were to sixth with 806 points, and Florida,out of range of the Top Twenty. 
which beat Louisiana State 20-0,Then they broke into the rankings at likewise moved up four places toNo. 19. Then they rose to 12th. Then seventh. Penn State, although idle,to seventh. 
moved from ninth to eighth, withAnd now they're third with seven Nebraska, 13th a week ago, ninthfirst-place votes and 1,037 points. 
this time and idle Alabama, 12th lastVictories over Notre Dame ( 20-12), 
week, competing the Top Ten.
South Carolina ( 34-3 ), Maryland (20-0) and Wisconsin (33·6) will do 
APTopTftnty that. Next up: Michigan State. 
The Top T-nty colege fO<ltl*l teama in The ANocieted Pr... poll, with first-place votee in

Iowa, despite having to scramble 
pwenth-. thia aeuon'a recorda and total in the last minute to beat Michigan 
pain... Poin._ baaed on 20-1&-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponen._ areitelic1:Zed.

State 35-31 last Saturday, remained atop the poll, a berth it achieved last week for the first time in 24 years. 
1. lowa(34) 4~ 1,137 2. Oldahoma (14) 2~ 1,106 3. MichiQMI (7) 4~ 1,037 

The Hawkeyes received 34 of 59 
first-place votes and 1,13 7 points. 
4. Florida St. (3) 4~ 993 

Oklahoma, receiving 14 first­
5. Oldahoma St. (1) 4~ 896 
6. An<a.-4~ 806

place votes and 1,1 06-points from 
7. Florida 3-0-1 n9

the nationwide panel of sports 
8. Penn State 4~ 745 9. Nebraal<a 3-1-o 656 10. Alabama 4~ 650 

writers and broadcasters, stayed in 
second place for the fifth week run­
11. Brigham Young 4-1-o 529 12. Auburn 3-1-o 514 13. Air Force 5-0-0 452 

ning after blowing out Kansas State 
41-6. 
14. Ten,_., 2-Q-1 442 

No teams dropped out of the Top 
15. OhioSt. 3-1-o 430 
16. SMU 2-1-o 300

Minnesota's Peter Najarian (32) can only watch Sooners-Gophers game earlier this season. Ok­Twenty and, obviously, none joined 
17. Texaa 3-0-0 170 as Oklahoma running back Lydell Ca17'flies over a lahoma continues to bold down the No. 2 spot in the elite crowd. But Southern Met­
18. Georgia 3-1-o 161 
19. Baylor 4·1.0 159

pile ofSooners for a first down on a fourth-and­the AP poll, which appears at right. hodist, which had fluctuated bet­
20. LSU 2-1-o 115 


one situation in the first quarter action from the 
ween third and sixth in the first five 



Soccer 
continuedfrom page 12 
Redskins with only 3:30 left to tie the Irish, 2-2. Regulation time and two 10-minute overtime periods then expired with no winner. 
The Redskins started the scoring for the day when Ron Deger put one past Notre Dame goalkeeper Hugh Breslin at 23:45. The Irish came back, however, and six minutes later, co-captain Chris Telk evened the score at one. 
Telk was playing in his first game after missing four contests with a knee injury suffered against Mic­higan State on Sept. 20. He has two goals and one assist this season. 
In the second half, Sternberg got his third goal ofthe season to put the Irish on top at 79:44. Notre Dame then held offthe Redskins until Slus­her got his goal. 

The Irish outshot their op­ponents, 19-9. Breslin was forced to make six saves, as was his Miami counterpart, Eric Whittnable. 
On Saturday, the Irish were forced into a hole immediately by Wright State, as Hylton Dayes scored for the tournament's hosts only 28 seconds into the match. The Raiders then went up by two goals eight minutes later on another goal by Dayes before the Irish could recover from his first attack. 
The rest of the scoring belonged to Notre Dame, as the Irish came back for a 4-2 victory. Marvin Lett got the ball rolling with a goal at 9:14, and Miles tied the game with his shot at 18: 11. Mark Bidinger tallied before the first half was out, and Bruce McCourt added a point to the Irish total in the second period. 
Breslin made six saves on 11 shots, while Raider goalkeeper Mike Kolschetzky stopped two of l 5 Irish shots on goal. 
Belles 
continuedfrom page 12 
game. The coach did comment, though, that the volleyball team needs to adapt better to the op­ponent's game plan. 
"We seem to have trouble playing slow teams," said Lambert. "We need to adapt better to this because most of the teams in our league are slow teams." 
St. Francis went on to beat Saint Mary's in the second match, 12-15, 15·5, and 15-12. Sophomore Kara Tekulve of Indianapolis led the. Belles in serve attempts with seven, as did Feldman, a freshman from Naperville, Ill. Reidy, a 5-9 inch junior from Lake Bluff, Ill., had five kills. Mergens, a sophomore from Chicago, had 27 assists. 

In the second game, Suth led the Belles with nine pass attempts, with only one error. Feldman had three kills, while Mergens had 21 assists. 
Mergens paced· the Belles with nine perfect serve attempts and 31 assists in the third game. Feldman led in kills with four. 

Students -Students -Students 
STUDENT FACULTV RELATIONS Student Government is now eccepti ng epplicetions for the 1985-1986 Student Feculty Relations Committee.
.­
Pick up epp 1 i cetions in Student Government Office Thurs end Fri dey. BE A PART OF IT !!!!! 



.r--------------------------­
'JI['~~C3l~-------------------------------------------~--ed_n_e_s_d_a_y_._o_c.to•b•e•r•9•'•1•9•8·5---.P.ag_e 
l_l 


pr~ 

,~e,\.~ Support Group 
OUSTI N Hc:::>FFMAN 
Meets Wednesday 7:00p.m. At the WUson Commons 
Come & Join us in a Dash... You Are Not Alone! 
If you need more information, Call Unda Monroe 239-7336 

Bloom County 
5/X MfJ'm/5...1HII1'5 
11/..L. ME 111/P 7HI5 MJR/..1? 
HAVe tur. 5/X MONTHS 
10 tJVCII U~T1tt1~... 1/NP SO MIKH 
lEY 1lJ PO I J1II(C E;f (A~ 
OPVS fJ(Jilf)Y 
I 

Zeto 

rtfAC¥/M.. 5(/f(€/.Y YtXI WLPN'T Hill£ II ft()f{, YO~ fJ(JY fACE P€111H Wf!!IM fii{5T TII5T!fi/G THe 5W!Cr; fOK6/P?eJ fK(JfTOf II W(}fi//IN 'fJ 
WVe? 
\ 

ACROSS 1 Animal food 5 Graf­9 Isle In "South 
Pacific" 13 Palo­14 Disdain 15 Russ. city 16 Beams 17 Recite 18 Wigwag 19 Handgun 21 Footnote abbr. 22 Nonsense! 23 Hot time In Cannes 
25 Neglect 
29 Roller's relative 33 Eye part 34 He sold his birthright 
36 Take over 
38 Conveyed 
39 Collected 
41 VIrginia willow 
42 Fishhook line 
e1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved

44 TV's Arnaz 
45 Alter song or slug 
46 Gulped 9 Sharp weapon Tuesday's Solution 48 "-no place 10 Ragamuffin like home" 11 Tribe of 
FRASISCALPIVET I
50 Born Israel 
E A R L C 0 C 0 A U R A L 
51 Expert 12 "-Three 
A S T 0 U L N A R C A L L 
52 Kind of party Lives" 
THEGOLDENST..
55 Repeating 14 Two-wheeled 
IIIIIIIA L P S 0 A T 
rille vehicle 62 Sharp taste 20 Realm letters 
JJ • 1 ~ri~l·~ T AlA. A 
63 Aphorism 24 Chin. pagoda 
,1~ D S 0 D A S ~
-J:

E L D R A 8 IID A W S 
64 Porter 25 Commotion 65 "-,Brute?" 26 Kilns 
1

'f~ EVE~~~+~ PJ::!
P E D I G R. S E N T R Y 67 -Major 28 Early auto· ,.NOA ATTUIIIIII 
66 Snake 27 Take up again 
68 Adolescent matic weapon 
Ji I l V E R~ T A T E 
69 Misfortunes 29 Made bread 
0 R E G N 0 I S E M R E D 
70 Consider 30 Laments 
R A R A E 8 L I S E G A D 
31 Stage 

A M 0 R S E E R S G 0 R Y 
DOWN direction 1 Defaces 32 Della of song 10/9/852 Jal-35 Infamous 3 Charon's river marquis 47 Bauble 56 -·China 4 "One -Shay" 37 Memorial posts 49 Haw's pa.tner 57 Protuberance 5 Dart 40 Digging 51 Summits 58 Skim along 6 Sulk machine 52 Let It stand 59 Rushed 7 Coastal flyer 43 Sweater size: 53 London gallery 60 Other 8 Admittance abbr. 54 Wager 61 500 sheets 
'The Stutertt Acttvl.-ties Board 

Berke Breathed 
YtJ(J OIN 711Ke'Me NOW, COttfcT811/JY... 
MY CVf aJN~ CXC!/S~ fVII~Tll tV.f,fl ~''J/!J
Mf/NY

) 
''SH/Kt£Y 
~MPU COCKr!Hl5~ 
I 

Kevin Walsh 
., 

"Well, I'm addicted.... Have you tried Carol's sheep dip?" 
Campus 
•11 
:30 A.M. -1:30 P.M. -Luncheon Benefit, Mexican Food, Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Concerned Students and the Center for Social Concerns, S3.00 donation to the Mexico Earthquake Relief Fund 

•12:30 
P.M.. 3:30P.M.· Blood Drive, Student Infirmary, Sponsored by Breen-Philips, Fisher and Keenan for Kevin Hurley 

•3:00 
P.M. -Soccer, Notre Dame vs. Mar­quette, Alumni Field 


T4:00 P.M.. Lecture, joseph Gonzalez, assis· tant partner at the Chicago office ofSkidmore, Owings and Merrill, in the architecture auditorium 
•6:1 
')P.M.· General Meeting, Center for So· cial Concerns, Sponsored by Circle K 

•6:30 
P.M. -Presentation and Reception, Ernst and Whinney, Senior Alumni Club, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services, Open to scheduled Accountancy Seniors and MBA's with Accountancy concentration 

•6:30 
P.M. · Meeting, 223 Hayes-Healy, Notre Dame Toastmasters Club 

•7:00 
P.M. -Fellowship Meeting, Keenan 


Hall Chapel, Sponsored by Spiritual Rock of Notre Dame 
•7:00 
P.M. -Meeting, LaFortune Student Center Little Theater, Sponsored by United Way 

•7:00 
P.M. · Movies, "China Syndrome" and "From A Dark House", Room 127 Niewland Science Hall, Sponsored by RASTA, $1.00 

•7:00, 
9:00 and II :00 P.M. -SAB FUm, "The Graduate", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, $1.')0 

•7:00 
P.M. and 9:1 S P.M.-Movies, "Raiders of the Lost Ark" and "Temple of Doom", O'Laughlin Auditorium, Sponsored by Ok· toberfest, $2.00 for both movies 

•7:30 
P.M.-Meeting, Center for Social Con· cerns, Sponsored by F.L.O.C. · N.D. Student Support Group 

•8:00 
P.M. -FUm, "South Africa: One Nation, Two Nationalisms", Center for Social Con­cerns, Sponsored by Anti-Apartheid Network 

•8:00 
P.M. . Lecture, "Labor's future in America", Dr. Stanley Aronowitz, Professor of Sociology at CUNY, Hayes-Healy Auditorium, Sponsored by Department of Economics 


Dinner Menus  
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Spaghetti with Meat Sauce  Roast Turkey with Dressing  
Baked Manicotti  Baked Breaded Fish with Tartar Sauce  
Quiche Lorraine  Cheese Enchiladas  
Beefand Bean Chimichangas  

TV Tonight 
7:00P.M.  16  1985  League  Championship  8:30P.M.  46  Renewed Mind  
Series I National League(West)  9:00P.M.  22  The Equalizer  
22  Stir Crazy  28  Hotel  
28  The Insiders  34  The Booth  
46  Lesea Alive  
8:00P.M.  22  Charlie and Company  10:00 P.M.  16  NewsCenter 16  
28  Dynasty  22  22 Eyewitness News  
34  Smithsonian  World:  "Where  28  Newswatch 28  
None Haa Gone Before"  46  Manna for the Modern Man  

"'\\~0. Graduate Student 
--------·----~ 

Wednesday, October 9, 1985-page 12
S~orts 
Farley still has undefeated record in women's interhall flag football 
By KEVIN HERBERT 
Sports Writer 
The lean, green Farley flag football 
team was driven to the precipice of 
defeat on the turf of Cartier Field 
Sunday evening, but like so many 
games before this, Farley was able to 
come out on the winning end of a 
20-14 score over Pasquerilla West. 
Farley, now 5·0, scored first, aided by a long jaunt down to the three· yard line off of a fourth-and-six op· tion play. The extra point attempt failed and with eight minutes remaining Farley led, 6-0. 
PW however, did not waste any time in its comeback. With two minutes left, PW's lightning running back, Nancy Evans, scorched 45 yards down the sidelines to tie the score at six. PW's point-after attempt failed and the halfended in a tie. 
Farley regained the lead on the first play ofthe second half when its superb quarterback, Marilu Almeida, threw a perfect 60-yard touchdown pass. Farley then ran the option for two points and led, 14-6. 
Evans, once again busted loose in the open field, however, rambling i3 yards on a fourth-and-three play to make it 14-12. The two-point con· version was good and the score was tied once again at 14. 

Farley took the lead for keeps with 
4:04 remammg when Almeida tossed a 20-yard touchdown pass. The extra point was no good, however, and PW took possession 
with four  minutes left trailing by  
only six.  
In  the  final  minute,  with  no  

timeouts remaining, PW completed a 55-yard pass down to the Farley three. Before they could run another play, however, the time expired, and Farley had a hard-fought 20-14 vic­tory. 
Earlier Sunday evening, Pasquerilla East, the only other un­defeated team, aided by the arm of quarterback Colleen Donnelly, defeated Lyons, 22-14. 
PE scored on a three-yard touch· down pass to take an early 6-0 lead. The conversion was good, and PE led,8-0. With two minutes remaining, Lyons' quick running back, Robin M~Hugh, rambled the last 30 yards of a 35· yard option pass touchdown to bring the score to 8-6. With 1:20 remaining in the first 
half, PE scored again, this time on a long bomb to take a 16-6 advantage. 
Early in the second half, PE put the game away on a 30-yard touchdown pass from Donnelly that opened a commanding 22·6lead. 
With five-and-a-half minutes left, 
Lyons closed the gap to 22-14, but it 
was too little too late as PE picked up 
its fifth win ofthe year, 22-14. 
In the other game Sunday, Lewis was able to pick up its first win ofthe year, but it took five overtimes to do it. The final was lewis 24, Walsh 18. 
Results from Thursday's action saw PW nip Lyons, 18-14, Farley trounce Badin, 21·0, and Breen Phil· lips edge Lewis, 6-0. 
In last night's action, BP crushed Badin, 22-0, to raise its record to 3-2, and Farley dealt PE its first defeat, 14-0. In the process, Farley upped its record to a perfect 6-0. 
Tomorrow, Lewis ( 1-4) will play Badin (0·5), BP will meet PW (3·2) and Walsh ( 1·4) will confront Lyons (2·3). 
The final slate of regular season games will be played Sunday. These contests feature PW against Badin, BP vs. PE, Farley vs. Walsh, and Lyons against Lewis. All games are played on Cartier Field. 

Soccer team looks forlsthome win 
1'1k Obwrvcr/Pctc Uchn 

Freshman wingback john Guignon and the rest of the Notre Dame soccer team will take on the Marquette Warriors this after­
today as Marquette comes to town noon at3 p.m. atAlumni Field. Phil Wolfpreviews the game tn his 
ByPHILWOLF 
AssistantSports Editor 
The Notre Dame soccer team will be looking for its first home win today when the Irish play host to the Marquette Warriors at 3 p.m. on Alumni Field. 
The Irish, 3·i ·3 after a win and a tie at the Wright State Tournament in Dayton, Ohio, last weekend, have a 0·3· 2 record in home games. The Warriors are 9-3 overall. 
Notre Dame has been playing well, lately, according to Head Coach Dennis Grace, so the team's record may be deceiving. But last season, the Warriors ran over an Irish team that finished the year at 12-6-2. Marquette took the Irish, 4­
1, in a homecoming match in Mil· waukee. 
The Warriors have a lot of 
strength returning this season, too, 
since their top three scorers from 
1984 still are playing. 
The team is led this season byJose Itarte, a senior co-captain from San Sebastian, Spain. Itarte has 11 goals and seven assists so far. The other co-captain for the Warriors is senior James Tutaj, who recorded two goals and one assist against the Irish last year. 
Other scoring leaders for Mar· quette are sophomore Todd Fitch (eight goals, three assists) and junior Tom Comiskey (six goals, three as­sists). 

Topping the scoring chart for Notre Dame is freshman Tom Ger-


Iacher, who has three goals and four assists. Freshman Joe Sternberg has added three goals and three assists, and senior tri-captain Dave Miles has been credited with two goals and three assists. 
Today's game will be the last home contest for Notre Dame until Oct. 30. 
The Irish have played in several close contests this season against 

Domer Runs results are in 
ByPHnWOLF 
AssistantSports Editor 

Law student Paul Matousek ran six miles in 31:59 last Saturday to win the 1985 Domer Run. 
Approximately 180 runners participated in the three· and six-mile runs sponsored by the Office of Non-Varsity Athletics. About 220 runners ran in last fall's races. 
Freshman Matt Laboe finished the three-mile course in 16:21 to take the crown in that event. Classmate Edwin Quinn came in third in 1 i:39, while junior Dave Hipp was second in 17:05. 
Sophomore Tom Shallow was the first undergraduate across the line in the six-mile event. His 35:24 was good enough for third place overall. Law student Robert Cessar was second in 32:58. 
The top female finishers in the six-mile event were juniors Maureen McKenna and Coleen Donnelly, who won the women's 
see DOMER, page 9 
story at left. some tough competition, and they have gone into overtime six times. Grace said he ha'> been encouraged 
Belles defeat Goshen 
by the play ofhis team in those close battles. "The improvement is very 
after loss to St. Francis 
noticeable in our team," Grace said. "But still our record doesn't reflect ByJILL SARBENOFF the quality ofour play. We've played A Sports Writer very well and haven't won. In a sense, it has been very frustrating to The Saint Mary's volleyball team see us play so well and not win, but recovered from a loss to St. Francis considering ·our youth and the earlier in the night and went on to toughness of our schedule, I'm still defeat Goshen in two straight games very optimistic about this team." last night. 
The Irish appeared to be on the The Belles had dropped their first way to two victories last weekend at match of the night in two straight Wright State, but Miami (Ohio) got a games to St. Francis, in the three-way goal late in the game on Sunday and competition held at the Angela Ath­eventually tied the Irish, who had letic Facility. beaten Wright State on Saturday. In the first game of the Goshen 
Shannor Slusht:r scored for the match, Colleen Mergens and Tammy Suth each had six serves and one ace.
see SOCCER, page 10 Mergens also had 21 assists. Mar­garet Feldman, meanwhile, led in kills with three. 
Leading in the serving department in the second game was Mergens with 10, three of which were aces. Feldman contribured 16 attacks and seven kills in the team's win. Mary Reidy, however, was close behind with five kills. Once again, Mergens led in assists with 30. 
Head Coach MaryJo Lambert feels that the team needs to work on its blocking skills. Nevertheless, she still was pleased with the Belles' overall progress after the second 
see BELLES, page 10 

Blue ,Jays beat Royals, 6-1, behind Stieb's solid pitching performance 
TORONTO · Dave Stieb held Kansas City to three hits through eight innings and the Toronto Blue Jays, showcasing the blend that brought them their first-ever divi· sion title, beat the Royals 6-1 last night in the first game of the American League playoffs. 
The Blue Jays, the AL East cham· pions in just their ninth season, scored all their runs in the first four innings and finished with 11 hits in the first AL postseason game outside the United States. 
The loss in the opener ofthe best· of-seven series saddled Kansas City Manager Dick Howser with an 0-10 record in the postseason as his Royals crumbled under the Blue Jays' early mix of speed, power and agressiveness. 
Stieb shut out the Royals through eight innings. Tom Henke, the Jays' surprise bullpen star this season, gave up two hits to lead offthe ninth, and Willie Wilson scored the lone Kansas City run on a fielder's choice. 
The game featured the two start· ing pitchers who led the league in earned run average. But while the top-ranked Stieb, with a 2.48 ERA, looked every bit the part, the Blue Jays ripped Charlie Leibrandt and sent him to his earliest exit of the season. 
Stieb, whose lack of run support during the season produced a mis· leading 14-13 record, gave up a two· out double to George Brett in the first inning and a one-out single by Brett in fourth. A pinch-hit double by Dane Iorg in the eighth ended a streak a 12 straight batters retired by Stieb. 
Stieb allowed only one other run­ner, a walk to Pat Sheridan in the fourth, and struck out eight. The hard-throwing Stieb fanned eight different Royals, all except Sheridan, before Henke came in to pitch the ninth. 
The only troublespot for Stieb, in fact, carne while he was warming to start the second, when a young woman bolted out of the right-field seats, ran to the mound and hugged the startled pitcher. Stieb did not seem shaken, and pitched a l-2-3 in­ning. 
Leibrandt, meanwhile, lasted just two fuU innings and was driven from the mound in third with the bases loaded and no outs. The Blue Jays, who were 0-2 against Leibrandt during the season, ripped the 1i · game winner for five runs on seven hits. 
Game 2 is scheduled for this after­noon, with Kansas City lefty Bud Black, 1 0·1 5 during the regular season, facingJimmy Key, 14-6. 
Alot ofthe pregame attention was devoted to Howser's plan to pitch left-banders against Toronto, and the weather. Neither got in the Blue Jays' way. 
Game time temperature was 63 degrees · balmy for this city · and the winds that usually whip off Lake On· tario at Exhibition Stadium were mild. There was a little bit of rain during the player introductions, and a very light sprinkle in the third in· 
~JAYS, page 9 




