Senior Fellow -page 3 

VOL XIX, NO. 141 the indcpcndnll 'ludnll Ill"\\ ')Xlpt-r 'lT\ ing 11< 11rt d.lllll" ,md ,,11111 man·, MONDAY, MAY6, 198S 

The Chicago-based reggae bandDa/lol was the 1 ,000. This event and others, all sponsored by featured band at Saturday night's concert held in RASTA, helped to raise an estimated $4,000for aid Stepan Center and attended by approximately to Ethiopia. 
Ethanol committee makes a stink 
By BUD LUEPKE HisJune .28 proposal wao; rejected tion did not apply to an on-going Senior StaffReporter by other committee members. violation. Any deadline set on the Council Attorney Kathleen plant is meaningless, he said. Hill 
The distinctive odor emanating Cekanski-Ferrand was reported in was reported in the South Bend from the New Energy Company of the South Bend Tribune as saying Tribune as saying, "When and if Indiana ethanol plant may greet stu­there is "no rhyme or reason" to litigation is appropriate, we'll dents next fall if political furor and Zakrzewski's proposal. proceed." legal confusion are not resolved this Plant manager William Cribbs, summer. who was absent from the meeting, Difficulties in identifying the ex­
Since opening lao;t (ktober, the was unaware ofthe proposal. "That's act cause of the odor have hindered plant's enusswns have plagued something the councilman came up clean-up efforts. Committee Chair­campus and South Bend residents with on his own," Cribbs said. "The man George Plain said the odor alike. city government is suporting us. As comes from the drying process 
Mayor Roger Parent organized a far as I know only the one council­which is the last phase in producing Public Works Committee to inves­man is against us and I don't know ethanol. "The plant has modified tigate what avenues could be taken why." two stacks out offive, and these have in resolving the problem. The com­Zakrzewski set his deadline on reduced emissions 50 percent." mittee met last Thursday night and June .28 in response to the Cekanski­Plain could not say, however, whet· ended in dissension among commit· Farrand interpretation of the city her these modifications were reduc­tee members when Councilman nuisance ordinance. According to ing the odor. "There's no way to Thomas Zakrzewski, D-6th her interpretation, action must be measure odor," he said. proposed a June .28 deadline for taken against a violation within a removal of the odor. year. After a year of violation, she Plain said that similar problems 
Zakrzewski, in whose district the said, no action can be taken. have resulted from ethanol plants in plant is located, is under political City Attorney Richard Hill, who Cedar Rapids, Decatur, and Peoria. pressure from citizens to bring legal also failed to attend the meeting, He said a recent study concluded action against the plant. said the year restriction on legal ac-that the emissions were not toxic. 
Reagan visits gravesite to honor slain Nazis in the midst of protest 
Associated Press Along the way to the nearby U.S. 
Air Force base, the president also 

BITBURG, West Germany· Presi· viewed signs ofsupport: "Hail to the dent Reagan's visit to the military Chief," "Welcome President R. cemetery inspired jeers, chants and Reagan," and "Thanks for liberty." whistles of opposition here and About .20 minutes before Reagan around the world yesterday. But passed through the center of Bit· cheers were heard too, as many Ger­burg, 25 German police equipped mans thanked Reagan for defying a with riot gear charged into a group storm ofcriticism to honor their war of about .200 Jewish students and dead. their supporters. The scuffle broke 
A handful of protesters shouted up after about five minutes, and no "Please don't go" as Reagan's arrests were reported. motorcade carried him through the narrow streets of this small farming Demonstrators also greeted community to the graveyard in the Reagan and Kohl earlier, when they nearby hills. went to the Bergen-Belsen con­
A grim-faced Reagan and West centration camp about 220 miles to German Chancellor Helmut Kohl the north. laid wreaths at Kolmeshohe Objecting to the Bitburg stop, Cemetery, where 49 Nazi SS they shouted: "Mr. Reagan, don't go troopers are buried among some there. You don't belong there. We 2,000 war dead. don't want you there." 
Several thousand people lined the streets to see the president's After the two leaders left the limousine motorcade speed by. death camp, about 50 people, most Protesters' chants were matched at of them American Jews who are the times by cheers from supporters. children of Holocaust survivors, Posters and banners were held aloft were allowed onto the grounds to amid the throngs. conduct their own memorial 
"They killed my family," read one. service. "Why, Mr. President?" queried anot· "Bergen-Belsen has today been her. exploited for the political interests 
To mute the storm of protest of these two men, and the sanctity of arising from his homage at the this place has been violated," saicJ graves ofNazis, Reagan spent an ear· Menachem Rosensaft. 
lier hour at a concentration camp where 50,000 Jews and gentiles were put to death by Adolf Hitler's 12-year dictatorship. 
"The horror cannot outlast the hope," the president said there-his message to those who accused him ofignoring the Nazi horrors. 
Reagan, in one of the most con· troversial acts of his presidency, spent only eight minutes in silence at the Kolmeshohe Cemetery in Bit· burg with West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl on a dank, gray day. 
Au revoir 
Today's paper is the last regular issue ofTI:le Observer for the 1984-85 school year. The Ob­server will publish a commence­ment issue May 17. The Observer staff wishes all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students a safe and happy summer. See you in August! 

Credit Union minimum balance policy irks students 
By SANTIAGO O'DONNELL andJOHN FLORY • 
News Staff 
Two dollars may not seem like a lot of money, but it might cost the Notre Dame Credit Union more than it bargained for. 
The Credit Union's recent S2 finance charge policy for share ac­counts with a balance of less than S500 has some students taking their business elsewhere. 
"I came here to take all my money out, partly because of the new charges, partly because the in­terest I make in my savings ac­count is close to nothing," said freshman Meg Egan. 
"I am going to deposit my money back home in Baltimore, and have my school address printed on the checks, so I can use them here. A lot of my friends are doing the same thing," she added. 
According to one Credit Union employee, who insisted upon anonymity, many students are closing their accounts. The exact number of accounts closed belonging to graduating seniors is difficult to determine she said. 
''The new fees have only been ef· fective since May 1 and it is too early to tell," she said. 
June Rettie, the Credit Union's vice president for operations, declined to comment on the new fees in the absence ofCredit Union President Ruth Kelly, who was out of town last Friday. 
Rettie also instructed employees not to release any in­formation or comment on the issue. 
"I stand by the comments made by president Kelly in the April 19 Observer article," said Rettie. 
In that ·article Kelly said "We're trying to give the students the fairest fee structure ofany financial institution. But the cost of doing business has changed radically. A survey we conducted showed that our members wanted us to charge the members who use those (financial) services." 
Apparently, some students do not number among those sur­veyed, as petitions denouncing the new policy as unfair have appeared in residence halls. 
Some members of student government said they feel the new finance charges are unfairly tar· geted at students. 
"It seems as ifthey are taking us for a ride," commented Student Senator John Ginty, who was ap­pointed by student government to study the new fees and possible al­ternatives. 
"It's not so much the charges that I am opposed to, but rather the way this new policy is being imple­mented. Every age group seems to be exempt from these fees, with the exception ofstudents, he said." 
Members under 18 years of age are exempt from finance charge fees. The "net pay" plan exempts members that cash or deposit their pay checks in the Credit Union. This provision exempts many members in the 25 to 55 age group. 
Members over 55 years of age may participate in the Members Emeritus program which would exempt them from finance charges, while members over 65 years old can gain exemption through "direct deposit" of their Social Security checks. 
Only students and the un­employed do not qualify for any of these exemptions. "I believe that this policy is discriminatory. I am meeting with Ms. Kelly this Mon­day (today), but I have the feeling that the new fees will stay as they are," said Ginty. 
Students will also face a monthly charge of $1 if they fail to keep at least $I00 in their savings account and they do not have another ac­count with the Credit Union. 
Ginty is currently studying two possible alternatives to the Credit Union. One is to bring a branch of the First Source Bank to the LaFortune Student Center once its renovation is completed. First Source already has a branch operating on the Saint Mary's campus, where students pay up to 75 cents a month in finance charges. 
The other possibility is to bring to LaFortune a number of local banks and let them compete for students. "The University of Ken­tucky has six different banks 
operating  on  campus,  and  it  is  
working  out  really  well,"  said  
Ginty.  

Senator K..C. Collum agreed with Ginty's remarks, and said he will be closing his Credit Union account today or tomorrow. 
Former Student Body President Rob Bertino commented, "I believe that the fees are unfair be­cause the Credit Union caters to many students who can't bank el­sewhere because they don't have transportation. Ifthe Credit Union is in financial difficulty they should dip into the pockets of their weal­thier members." 
"I'm glad that the senate is taking action, and I'm glad that I am a senior," he added. 
Said Junior Mansour Eid who 
· dosed his account Friday, "Ifthey take out two bucks a month, in a whole year they will take out all the money I have in the bank." 
~-----~-­

The Observer Monday, May 6, 1985 -page 2 
In Brief 

The resultsare in from Notre Dame's participation in the St. Joseph County Blood Bank Program. Breen-Phillips took first place in the hall competition with 2'5.2 percent residents donating, according to Carol Seager, director of University Health Services. Overall, 636 Notre Dame students gave blood, up from last year's total of I '59 donors. · The Obsen1er 
The Kellogg Institute has awarded summer inter­nships in human rights to three Notre Dame students. Seniors Brian McKeon, Jim Capretta, Tom Gibbons and sophomore Pablo Itur­ralde were awarded the internships in competition with other stu­dents interested in developmental issues and human rights in Latin America. Two seniors, Joe Bongiovi and Brian Brisson, were awarded two top prizes for Latin American studies by the Kellogg Institute.· The Obsen1er 
An OVerwhelming majority of Americans 
trust the news they get from network television, according to a sur· vey for U.S. News & World Report magazine by the Roper Organiza· tion releao;cd Saturday. '58 percent of respondents to the poll agreed that network news coverage is "neutral, objective and middle of the road." Twenty-two percent said TV news leans too far to the left and 10 percent said it wao; too far to the right. Network~> got harsh marks on questions of entertainment quality. Only H percent said they were very satisfied with the entertainment offerings of television. · 
AP 

After more than 100 batswere discovered living in the walls ofa residence hall, Arizona State University housing offi· cals called in professional exterminators. Although the presence of the bats. mostly young males, did not pose an immediate threat to students, ASU moved quickly to flush the bats out, and to seal the crevices through which they originally entered. ·The Obse111er 
Of Interest 

Seniors are being asked to contribute to the Senior Class Scholarship Fund in one of two ways. On-campus seniors are asked lO donate their S';O room deposit and off-campus seniors are asked to send a S';O contribution. The Class of 1984 raised 518,000 through this project last year. The Senior Class Scholarship Fund is used to increase financial aid resources at Notre Dame. This year the project is being organized by former Student Body President Rob Bertino and former Senior Class President Dean Christy.· The Obser· ver 
A senior class Mass for off-campus students will be held tonight at 7 at the Grotto. The celebrant will be University President Father Theodore Hesburgh. · The Obse111er 
Weather 

Studying outside? For those who do manage to leave the library to ex­perience the great outdoors, it will be mostly cloudy today with highs in the low 70s and a 30 percent chance of showers. It will be partly cloudy tonight with a low near 50. For the in­famous study day tomorrow, it will be partly 

sunny with a high ofabout 70. -AP 
The Observer 
lbe Observer (liSPS ~99 2·4000) is puhlished Monday through Frida)" and on home fomhall Saturdays, except durin!( exam and vacation peri<xl•. lbe Observer is published hy the studenL' of the University of Notre Dame and Saini Mary's College. SuhsuipUons may be pur<·ha>ed for HO per year ( JlO per semester) by writing lbe Observer, 
P.O. llox Q, Notre Oamc,lndiana 46~~6. 
lbe Observer is a memher of lbe Assoclaled Press. All reproduction rights are re>erved. 

Design EdiiOr ............................... Troy Illig Design Assistant ................. Andi Schnuck Ltlyout Stll/f.............................. Miriam Hill Tvpesellers ................. Catherine Reynolds 
Vic Guarino News Editor............................. John Heasly Copy Editor ..................... Mark Pankowski .\ports Copy Editor ............. Marc Ramirez 
Viewpoint Copy Editor ........ John Heasly Viewpoint layout............... Kevin Becker Fetltures Copy Editor.............. Sam Moore Features ltlyout.................. Ellen Mastako NIJ Dlly Editor....................... Aimee S10rin Ad Design ................. Mary Carol Creadon 
Alisson Fahren Kopf Photographer ................... Lev Chapclesky 
The inherent evils of final exam week 
This is the time of year when civilization begins to break down, especially for freshmen. 
For many months, you've been living in an uneasy state of truce with that jerk you live with. Despite all the things you'd like to have done to him or her, you have been kind. 
This restraint, however you might justify it, has not been because ofChristian charity. It has been a survival technique. You have to live in this room, so you both might as well make things as liveable a~ possible. 
In a week, this will no longer be true. There is no further benefit to being civilized. Whatever you do, there is no longer the time for a damaging response from your roommate. So you do all the things you've always wanted to. 
Admittedly this is not only true offreshmen. In later years you can become disillusioned with a roommate during the year and wish your lousy room pick hadn't forced you into this arrange­ment. 
Finals time is the perfect cal difference between time to launch a May Day someone down the hall revolution against the playing music just to irritate swine. A wave of terror -you and someone down the which is always more ef­hall ao;king you not to play fective if othn people in your music. Just what that your suite join in· can be an difference is b not clear, but excellent way to show your it is true that both these roommate that he or she people are wrong and arc in· really isn't as wonderful as fringing on your rights. he or she thinks. lbe only solution to the 
The cause for these lapses strains of final exam time · in what is referred to as not to mention to the un­Christian behavior is not Christian behavior it simply the natlllral tendency promotes · is to ban finab. of human behavior coming This would not, however, be 

to the fore. There is a more significant cause of this hos­
tility: final exams. 

Final exams, because they produce such evil, probably should be banned by a pastoral letter, but that is another matter altogether. 
Finals anxiety takes many forms other than roommate slaughter. The most common of these is the sullen silence syndrome. For more than a week, the best of friends refuse to talk to each other. They simply sit silently studying and getting progressively more worried about what might happen during exams. 
The introspective silence is fortunate, especially for the North Dining Hall. Everyone eats at North during finals, which is rather irritating for North Quad resi­dents who don't flood the library. Some would think it is stupid to walk five minutes from the library to stand in line for half an hour and then walk back five minutes instead ofwalking ten minutes to the South Dining Hall and going straight in to eat and walking backfrom there. The evidence shows, however, that not many think this is stupid. 
IAMERICAN WCANCER ~SOCIE1Y~ 
Tom Mowle 
Day Chief 


ignorance is a sign in civiliza· tion, but there are more obvious ones. For example, there is the guy across the hall who insists on playing his stereo with his door and transom closed. lbese precau· tions are only a cover for his attempt to destroy your ability to pass your classes, become successful in life, and make your Mommy and Daddy proud ofyou. 
His relative is the person who refuses to let you listen to your classical music to study by, even though you've done so all year. Clearly, he is trying to ruin your routine and is being very sel­fish to boot. There is a criti· 
a complete solution. lbe end of the semester, even without finals, would still 

promote anxiety at a relaxed campus like this one. 
So the semester should end hy proclamation sometime in the spring. Father Heshurgh would stand on the steps of the Dome and announce the semester officially ended. This would be no more unusual than the official beginning of the school year he traditionally announces in late September. 
Such a Hobbesian approach to school might lead to better performance all through the year, because stu­dents would work harder, never knowing when the end would come. Or they would do worse, confident that they still had plenty of time left on this campus. Either way, students would no longer kill each other during finals week. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not neces­sarily reflect the views of the editorial board or staff. 

Call: 288-2212 
Amtrak Travel and Express Service 
•
Tickets by mail 

• 
Tickets can be held at Station until day of departure 


Free Express Pick-up Service &om Campus 
1-50 lbs. $18 50-100 lbs. $22 
Rates are lower for some states 
•Limit 
of 50 lbs/box 

•
No limit to number of pieces per shipment 

•
Bike boxes available *Rates go down after 100 lbs. 



--~--~ -----~~----------------------­
The Observer Monday, May6, 1985-page 3 
John Paul II finds filtn offensive 
Associated Press 
VATICAN City-Pope john Paul II on Saturday led thousands of faithful in reciting the rosary ded­icated to "repairing the offense in­flicted" to the Virgin Mary by a French film. 
"Je Vous Salue, Marie" (Hail, Mary) by French directorJean Luc Godard portrays the mother of Jesus as a cabbie's girlfriend and shows her nude in some scenes. 
'Ibe ceremony at the Courtyard ofSt. Damasus in front of the Apos­tolic Palace at the Vatican was carried worldwide by Vatican Radio. 
Earlier this week, the pontiff invited Roman Catholics around the world to join him in reciting the rosary "with the intention" of expressing their indignation over the film. 
Meanwhile, left-wing groups "supporting freedom of expres­sion" staged a counterdemonstra­tion in front of a downtown Rome theater showing th_e movie. 
More than 100 people gathered outside the Capranichetta cinema, which has been the scene of several protests by priests, nuns and neo-fascist groups since the film's opening about two weeks ago. 
In the film, the modern-day Mary is the daughter of a gas­station owner and the girlfriend of a taxi-driver namedJoseph. The ar­changel Gabriel arrives in a jet to give Mary the news that although she is a virgin, she is pregnant. 
Besides religious protests in Rome, Naples, Bologna and other Italian cities, the movie has also en­countered legal ·problems. Aut­horities in the Adriatic coastal town ofPesaro seized the fllm after a judge ruled it was obscene. 
Darby's may temporarily relocate 
By FRANK LIPO 
CopyCbief 
Darby's Place might receive a reprieve from its previous death sen­tence, according to its Manager Bob Newhouse. 
Newhouse said he has been dis­cussing a temporary relocation of Darby's with Student Activities Director Joni Neal. The temporary move would be to some closet space near Chautauqua Ballroom. 
The relocation will become a reality if the closet space has the electrical outlets necessary to handle Darby's equipment, accord­ing to Newhouse. The electrical out­lets are the only obstacle which stands in the way of the relocation, 
Open at 11~m for Lunch 

he said, adding a decision will be made by tomorrow. 
Student Activities Board Business Manager Rob Hoover initially in­formed Newhouse that the LaFortune renovations. which were given final approval oy the Board of Trustees last week and will begin this summer, would leave no base­ment space for Darby's. Newhouse said he then talked to Lee Broussard, SAB manager. "Lee Broussard was willing to try to work something out," said Newhouse. 
With Broussard's support, Newhouse then asked Neal if he could view the renovation plans. Newhouse said he has met with Neal during the past two weeks to discuss a temporary location. Newhouse said Neal was "eager to relocate Darby's." 
Newhouse said he has heard "indefinite rumours" that the ad­ministration plans to discourage late-night studying on campus. "It's not my job to argue with the ad­ministration over the issue of late­night study. It is my job to see that Darby's doesn't disappear," said Newhouse. 
Any discouragement of late night studying applies strictly to LaFortune, Newhouse said. He said that Neal and Father David Tyson, vice president for student affairs, view a renovated LaFortune's func­tion as "100 percent social" and there will be "no real study space," in a renovated LaFortune. 
You've been studying for hours. The pages are blurring and your stomach is stirring. So why not take a break and call Domino's Pizza? We'll be there with a hot, custom-made pizza in 30 minutes or less. Guaranteed! All of our pizzas are made with 100% real dairy cheese and fresh, not frozen. toppings. Now isn't that worth contemplating! 
Menu 
All Pizzas Include Our Special Blend of Sauce and 100% Real Cheese 
Our Superb Cheese Pizza Domino's Deluxe 5 1tems for the price of 4 Pepperoni. Mushrooms. Omans. Green Peppers and Sausage 12" deluxe$ 8.55 16" deluxe $12.35 
12"cheese$4.99  ~  
16" cheese $7.19  
®  


Electives Pepperoni. Mushrooms. Black Olives. On1ons. Green Olives. Sausage. Ground Beef. Ham. Green Peppers. Double Cheese. Extra Thick Crust 12" pizza$ .89 per item 16" pizza $1 .29 per item 
Coke" ·16 oz. bottles. 59c 
Our drivers carry less than $20.00 
Limited Delivery Area 
Pnces do noltnclude applicable sales Ia){ c 1984 Dommo s Ptzza. Inc 
r----------------------, 
Pay only $5.99' for a$5.99 12" one item pizza and 2 Cokes·
Special 

Good Fri., Sot., and Sun. Only 
mD
Fast, Free Delivery™ Plaza 23 Center ~--183bSouthBendAile. -South Bend Phone: 277-2151 
'"' JTC NA 103 2650 • • ' 1984 Dom1no s Ptzza. Inc 
~~~~~~~~~~ 
w.lo.-"--------~ .I® 

L--·---------··--------J 
DOMINO'S PIZZA DELIVERS™ FREE. 

Father Steve Gibson named Senior Fellow 
By MARK WORSCHEH 
SeniorStaffReporter 
Notre Dame seniors had a chance last week to vote for the person who most affected and inspired them, and they overwhelmingly chose Fat­her Steve Gibson to be Senior Fellow for 1985. 
Gibson, who goes by "Father Steve" as the rector of Carroll Hall, received 60 percent ofthe vote. 
"It's an honor," said Gibson. "I really hope its a reflection upon three years ofgood ministering with some people I have come to know and love very m~ch and not a reac­tion to some of the publicity of the last two or three weeks." 
Gibson announced April 14 that he and Father David Tyson, vice president for student affairs, had "reached a mutual agreement that it would be best if(he) did not return as rector next year." Reaction to the announcement was swift, as stu­dents across the campus defended Gibson's record and questioned the criteria used to evaluate rectors. 
"It's interesting to see the way Notre Dame seniors feel toward Fat­her Steve obviously pretty strongly," said Dean Christy, presi­dent of the senior class. "A lot of people think very highly of him. That's understandable. He fits the criteria for the award in every way." 
Last year's Rector ofthe Year, Gib­son said last night he still is unsure of his plans for the fall. 
"I have a couple ofproposals I will be making, but it really depends upon my superiors. I would very much like to continue in the mini­stry here at Notre Dame," he said. 
Gibson, 42, said he will remember the senior class most by "the people I've come to know the best -who I've been on retreat with from the class. I would hope that some of the friends would be friends forever." 
After graduating from Notre Dame in 1966, Gibson went to mini­ster and teach in Uganda for eight years beginning in 1969. He was or­dained in the African nation, becom­ing what he termed "the first white man ordained in east Africa." 
Gibson returned to Notre Dame, spending six years at the Fatima Retreat House before becoming rec­tor ofCarroll Hall, where he is in his third year. 
He will be presented with the award during commencement weekend. 

National Nurses' Day today at Saint Mary's 
Special to The Observer 
"Nursing care makes the dif­ference" is the message of National Nurses' Day, being held today at Saint Mary's and around the country. 
Saint Mary's Student Nurses' As­sociation will join the American Nurses' Association, the Indiana State Nurses' Association, and the nation's 1.7 million registered nurses in marking this event. 
College President John Duggan proclaimed the occasion, urging all to "join us in observing National Nurses' Day, recogrnzmg that through the efforts of our nation's nurses, nursing care makes a dif­ference." 
ANA President Eunice Cole, tar­geted competition in health care and the availability and affordability of health care services as critical na­tional issues. "These questions that are only lately receiving attention from multiple segments of society have long been of concern to nurses," she said. "On National Nurses' Day, we rededicate our­selves to providing quality nursing care services to the public at prices they can afford." 
Colleen Osborne, Saint Mary's SNA President, commented, "We hope that our recognition of Na­tional Nurses' Day will make others aware of the vital role nurses play as health care professionals." 
National Nurses' Day gives con­sumers a chance to remember nurses whose care has made a dif­ference in their lives and the lives of their families, said Cole. 

GREYHOUND 
WILL BE ON CAMPUS FRIDAY, MAYJoth TRRUTUESDAY, MAY J4th, TO PICK UP YOUR TRUNKS fl BOXES FOR SHIPMENT ROME. 
GREYHOUND VAN WILL BE BEHIND 'J'RE BOOKSTORE MAY JOth TRRU MAY J4fh FROMIOa.m. UNTIL 5 p.m. 
INDIVIDUAL TRUNKS AND BOXES CANNOT EXCEED JOO POUNDS. WE'LL RAVE TAPE AND SHIPPING LABELS. 

Monday, May 6, 1985 -page 4

The Observer 
Student activity budget approval vote tonight 
By SCOTT BEARBY 

Assistant News Editor 
No significant changes were proposed by the student govern­ment budget committee in deciding how student activities fees will be allocated for 1986, according to Stu­dent Body President Bill Healy. 
'!be proposal is set to go before the Student Senate tonight for their approval, and llealy said he hopes it will pass without major difficulty. 
According to the figures presentl:d by the committee, there will be no increase in the funds available to spend for the coming year. Increases in the student government and Hall Presidents' Council budgets are offset by cut­backs in the Student Activities Board and Off-Campus Council budgets. 
'!be proposed increase in the stu­dent government budget, explained Healy, is primarily because of addi­tional administrative costs and infla­tion. Both the secretary and bookkeeper are scheduled for raises based on the standard University rate. More than $S9,000 in alloca­tions was proposed by the commit­tee to cover salaries and other administrative costs. 1 lbe Hall Presidents' Council tentatively will receive S20,000 in funds, up 52,000 from last year. The reason for the proposed increase is because off-campus will be able to petition for fund-; from the council for the coming year, said Healy. 
Because of the additional oppor­tunity for off-campus representatives to receive student activities fee funds through the HPC, the Off-Campus Coljncil's budget proposal is approximately U,SOO less than last year, he said. 'fbe remaining S 1,000 in the budget is slated for social activities, while funds coming from HPC will go toward off-campus improvements. 
The only additional proposed al­teration in the budget is with Stu­dent Activites Board funds. More than S I 0,000 was removed from last year's S I I 1,000 figure in this year's budget proposal. 
l.a..'it week the Notre Dame Board of Trustees voted on a proposal to increase the student activites fee by $1 S, however, the board has not released a statement about whether this proposal passed. Healy ex­plained that even if the increase did pass their proposed budget would not be effected. If the increase did pass "that money would go to Joni Neal and the Student Activites Office," Healy added. 
Approximately 20 percent of the activities fee is slated to go to the classes and to various campus clubs. lbe Judicial Board budget also is proposed to remain at last year's figure of 5200, according to Healy. 
In addition to Healy, Student Ac­tivities Board Manager Lee Brous­sard, Judicial Coordinator Karen Ingwersen, Student Body Vice Presi­dent Duane Lawrence, HPC Chair­man Kevin Howard, and SAB Comptroller Jack Gallagher were a part of the budget committee headed by Student Body Treasurer Eric Parzianello. 
Healy said he sees no problem with the proposal being passed by the senate, which will be meeting tonight at 6 in Room 124 of Hayes­Healy Hall. 
Dog survives 1,000 foot fall 
Ao;sodated Press 
ANCHORAGE, Alaska -Kneeland Taylor thought for sure his dog was dead after he watched him plummet 1,000 fl-et down a steep mountain face and vanish into deep snow. 
nut five days later. Lucas came home. 
'!be fall had broken two ribs, col­lapsed a lung and knocked out some teeth, but the 12-year-old mutt somehow found his way down O'Malley Peak to a parking lot at the trail head. 
"Iiy almost any definition, it was a miracle," Taylor said Friday. Lucas plunged over the edge of a cornice of snow April 27 as Taylor 
and some friend-; climbed O'Malley Peak. a jagged and snowy S,OOO-foot mountain near Anchorage. 
"We were up there for an hour looking around," Taylor said Friday. "He was buried, we figured, so we gavt· him up for dead. I cried a lot and all that, and the next day I went to church." 
'Ibursday, Taylor received a call from a couple who had found Lucas sitting in the parking lot, a few miles from the mountaintop. Taylor figures that tucas, who has climbed mountains and run marathons with him for years, remembered the parking lot as the staging area for previous climbs. 


Doug Wurth (left) and University Food Seroices by Notre Dame student government as the student Director William Hickey (right) display the first­and administrator who best seroed Notre Dame in annual Irish Clover awards. Winners are selected thepastyear. 
First Irish Clover A ward presented 
By DAN McCULLOUGH 
News Editor 

They may not have been four-leaf clovers but they were four-star per­formances as far as student govern­ment was concerned. 
Notre Dame student government presented University Food Services Director William Hickey, Jr., and former student government ex­ecutive coordinator Doug Wurth, with the Irish Clover Award at a n:remony Friday in Hickey's South Dining Hall office. 
The award was established by stu­dent government this year to recognize the student and ad­ministrator who best served the stu­dent body during the past year, according to former Student Body President Rob Bertino. 
The Student Senate and the presi­dent's cabinet voted Hickey as the faculty/ staff/administrator winner of the award and Wurth as the stu­dent award winner. 
Senior Fellow Award winner Fat­her Steve Gibson, Notre Dame's Vice President for Business Affa-irs Thomas Mason and Director of Community Relations James Roemer were also nominated for the award Hickey received. 
Special Projects committee mem­ber Aline Gioffre, Student Senator Pat Browne and Sophomore Class President Jim Domagalski were also nominated for the student award. 
"This is the first year in what we hope will become an annual tradi­tion," said Bertino. He added he thought the award was an important way of recognizing those students and administrators who work hard for the student body. 


Authentic Chinese Cuisine 
FAMILY DINING OR CARRY-OUT BANQUETS CATERING 
@ 
SAT & SUN 11 :30AM-9PM DAILY LUNCH 11 :30AM-1 :30PM DINNER 4:30PM-9PM CLOSED TUESDAYS 
RESERVATIONS WELCOME 
256-5576 
2620 UNCOLN WAY W. MISHAWAKA 
The Observer Monday, May 6, 1985 -page 5 
Shuttle scheduled for noon landing after b<)Ut with rat food and feces 

Associated Press 

SPACE CENTER, Houston· Chal­lenger's astronauts made final runs on their science experiments yester-· day and prepared to fire the space shuttle out of orbit for a long fall toward a high-speed landing in California. 
They also had another bout with airborne particles of rat food and feces. 
Mission commander Bob Over­myer maneuvered the spacecraft yesterday for the first time in six days and reported "no problem at all." 
Challenger "felt like a moving machine again," he said. 
The manuever pointed Chal­lenger's nose ·at the sun and will cause heaters to turlll on in the 

Vehicles Included in the Plan. 
You may choose a new 1985 Thunderbird, LTD, Tempo, Mustang, Escort, Bronco II or light trucks up to F-250. 
*Pre-Approved Credit. Just meet three simple conditions: 

• 
You must have verifiable employ­ment that begins within 120 days of your vehicle purchase at a salary sufficient to cover ordinary living expenses and your vehicle payment. 

• 
You must have proof that you have graduated or will graduate and be awarded at least a bachelor's degree within 120 days. 


JORDAN 
propellant tank of the spacecraft's powerful rocket engines. This prepares the engines for a firing this morning that will drop the spaces­hip from orbit and start it Earthward. 
The spacecraft had been kept stable to allow the astronauts to con­duct experiments, such as crystal growth, that require a near-perfect absence of gravity. 
Challenger is scheduled to land on a dry lakebed runway at Edwards Air Force Base in California's Mojave Desert at 12:06 p.m. EDT today. It will cross the California coast near Long Beach three minutes before landing, traveling three times faster than sound. 
With their science chores nearly 
completed, the astronauts began to 
talk ofhome. 
• Your credit record, if you have one, must indi­cate payment made as 
agreed. ­
• *$400 Purchase Allowance. Make your best deal ... use the $400 as a down payment or receive a $400 check directly from Ford after the sale. 
609 East Jefferson Boulevard • Post Office Box 370 Mishawaka, Indiana 46544 U.S.A. • (219) 259-1981 
Pilot Bob Gregory said some of the crew had a post-landing request: "A beer might be nice, but all of us want an ice cream with chocolate and strawberries." 
Dr. Bill Thornton said the two 
squirrel monkeys and 24 rats in the 
Spacelab 3 housed in the shuttle's 
cargo bay were healthy and seemed 
to be enjoying the flight. He added 
about the monkeys: "We're bringing 
a couple back who are friendlier 
than when they came up." 
But Dr. Norman Thagard and Lodewijk van den Berg put new food trays in the rat cages yesterday and again had to wield vacuum cleaners to battle a cloud of food particles and rat feces that floated out into the science module. 
"We still get a lot ofdebris," Thar­
gard told Mission Control. "They 
really have to work on this problem 
of the food tray changeout." 
Earlier in the mission, the food 
tray changeout sent waves of food 
and feces floating into the cabin, 
some of which even floated down a 
tunnel and into the shuttle's flight 
deck. 
The two astronauts wore surgical gowns, masks and gloves for the half­hour cleanup, and Thagard recom­mended that goggles be added. 
~cience mission director Joe Cremin said prime objectives had been achieved on most ofthe 15 ex­periments aboard Spacelab 3. He said the seven-man crew -which in­cludes two doctors and three scien­tists -gathered enough science data to fil.l 50,000 volumes and collected· more than 3 million frames ofvideo data. 
In addition to growing crystals, the astronauts also took pictures of auroras around both poles, con­ducted a series of medical experi­ments, studied the effects of weightlessness on levitated droplets of fluid, col.lected cosmic ray par­ticles, and analyzed fluid motion in a device that simulated the surfaces of the sun and ofJupiter. 

-the 
~t;OLO~N VOMe' 
in :a 17-color limit&::! ~itiol1 1i-ttl~r~f'h 'r/y?rtorf t... HeNVFi~ eAition ~ -qqo ,arl'i.trt ~~ 70 ~'l f~ei PO?'£ FNV 
~v ~~~to. 10 '/ 
Hf;:HO!';ie;. ve;714~ 4-TUI/10 17tl4 MOfZlOti A'/~NLIJ;: t::~IH~l(p 
INI7. ~HlP ,.'w/~tf ~ Wt"r. 


The Observer Monday, May 6, 1985 -page 6 

Th~ Obs~rvcr/Hanncs Hacker
Struggling artist 
Keenan junior Paul Mdean opened shop to McLean, no two are ever alike. A member ofhis Saturdav between the LaFortune Student Center staff bas a blank "cam,as" in one band and the and the Band Annex to sell his custom design t­finished product in the other. sbirts. Each is a unique work ofart, and according 
Lifetime chance of being murdered calculated by 1ustice Department 
A.<i.'K>Ciated Press 
WASHINGTON Americans generally have one chance in 133 of being murdered "in an entire lifetime" and black men have a one­in-21 lifetime chance of being slain, the government said yesterday in its first violent crime risk study. 
The study by the Bureau ofjustice Statistics also concluded that some six million Americans. or roughly three percent of the population over age 12, will likely fall victim each year to robberies, rapes or other as­saults. 
The bureau, a unit of the Justice Department, also calculated that "in an entire lifetime," the chance of being murdered is one in 133, as contrasted with the one in l0,000 possibility that it might happen this year. 
But for black men, it said, there's a one-in-21 lifetime chance of being murdered. 
White men have a one-in-131 lifetime chance, white females, one­in-369 lifetime chance; and black females, one chance in I 04. 
Murders in the llnited States reached their highest level in 1980 ­one victim out of every I0,000 peoph:. The FBI uniform Crime Reports, released late last month, showed that murders fell by four percent from 1983 to 1984. Overall, reported crime dropped three per­cent. 
The t1ndings were based in part on five years of National Crime Survey statistics. 

The one-in-31 rate for victims of violent crimes other than murder was the rate actually recorded in 1982. But statisticians said they felt it could be extrapolated as a risk fac­tor for this and future years because violent crime incidence rates, ex­cluding murder, "remained generally constant," between 1978 and 1982, the period studied. 
The report said that generally, blacks arc more likely than whites to be crime victims. 
Young adults run a greater risk than the elderly and people in lower income brackets are at greater risk than those in higher income categories while married people are less likely to be victims than single or divorced people, it said. 
These assessments were con­tained in the newly devised "Crime Risk Index," a government indicator of the chance of becoming a violent crime victim. 
Steven Schlesinger, the bureau's director, cautioned that the three percent figure on the proportion of Americans likely to be victimized by robbery, assault or rape in a given year probably understates the peril "over a lifetime." 
Risk assessments to establish the likelihood that people will be vic­tims of robbery. rape, and assault were based on the bureau's National Crime Survey, which draws conclu­sions about crime from twice-a-year 
interviews with some 125,000 ran­
domly selected people. 
The risk assessment for murder, 
however, was based on a separate 
analyis of coroner and medical ex­
aminer reports from 1978 to 1982 
to the National Center for Health 
St;ttistics. 

.........R~~~~·;~..H~·i;..·~ 


Styling = 
531 N. Michigan St.. 1&1' Phone 133-4957 J.Q~
..........•........................................~ 
AI.LIED 
SHIPPING 
Air& UPS 219.277.7616 
We padr and Ship 
HOURS: 9-6 Mon-Fri 9-1 Sat 
UNIVERSITY COMMONS 
5123 
r.................................................................................................................................................., 
BANKING... 
ON CAMPUS AT SAINT MARY'S 
1st Source Bonk's office, located at Saint Mary's College in Haggar College Center, offers free checking to Saint Mary's and Notre Dome students and faculty In addition, this office brings you the convenience of 24 bonking 
locations to serve you I 
Banking Hours-Monday through Friday 
Mon. thru Thurs.-11:30 a.m.-3:30p.m. 
..................................................................................................................................................... ,j 
Friday -11:00 a.m.-4:00p.m.  ~Source  
Join Michiono's 1stTeom  ..:aank  
for unsurpassed bonking service!  Member F.D.I.C.  


Manmade voice box enables woman to talk 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -The •precious gift ofspeech will come back to Vir­ginia Lacey today in the form of a $20 plastic-and-rubber device im­planted in her throat. 
For the tirst time since cancer took her larynx, or voice box, in November, Lacey, 62, of Chicago, will be able to talk without electronic aid. 
Soon after losing her larynx, Lacey wrote of her life without speech: "Not active. Inferiority complex. Depressed." 
Though the device itself is cheap, surgeons say the procedures neces­sary to implant it could cost as much as 55,000. But Lacey's bill will be paid by a new institute and its benefactors, who hope to restore the voices of eight indigent patients this year. 
Lacey, a widow living on Social Security, is one of more than 60,000 Americans who have had their larynxes removed during surgery for cancer of the throat. 
lbe larynx is a small box of car­tilage atop the trachea, or windpipe. It contains the vocal cords, which vibrate under air pressure to produce the sounds of speech. Be­cause the operation requires cutting into the windpipe, surgeons leave a hole in the throat so a patient can breathe. 
Lacey will receive her voice back as a gift from the· Head and Neck Cancer Rehabilitation Institute. It was established by Eric BJorn, a speech pathologist who developed the voice prosthesis in 1978, and his colleagues, Dr. MMk Singer and Dr. 
Ronald Hamaker, with the help of donations from former patients, an Indianapolis hospital and a medical supply company. 
Before Blom and Singer developed their technique, throat cancer patients had two options ti>r speaking again -using an electrical device held against the throat to produce vibrations or learning to swallow air and speak by burping the air up through the throat. 
BJorn and Singer's lightweight prosthesis is about two inches long and is inserted in the throat in the hole left by the surgery. 
The device needs to be surgically implanted just once, but several times a year it requires replacement. That is done in a fitting in a doctor's office without further surgery. 
Blom and Singer have restored the voices of about 400 patients by using it. Other clinics and hospitals also perform the procedure. 
lbe ·device allows a patient to speak in a hoarse voice, whose 
quality  varies  with  the  individual  
and  depends  on  the  size  and  
resonance  of  the  person's  esop­ 

hagus, said BJorn. 
lbe device is manufactured by a division of the American Hospital Supply Corp.. which has agreed to give a lifetime supply to patients aided by the institute, Blom said. 
He said the inMitute has raised about $60,000 in its first year, but needs more. 
Lacey, in an Indianapolis hospital last week after the first step of the prosthesis procedure was per­formed, smiled easily as BJorn described what he would do during the fitting today. 


..-$--1---N-AUGLES--$--1-­
24110UR DRIW TNIIU MSTAURAIIT 
"an ••perlence In good ta•te" 
Purchase any Mexican-American food item from our menu and receive $1 off the price with this coupon. One coupon per visit, please. Not valid with any other promotional offer, coupons or specials. 
NAUGLEs· 
24110UR ~'IIIRU..-rAURAIIT
$1 $1 
501 Dlldew., North, RotelaiNI 272-5455 
~-----------------------------~ 
Accent 
Giovanni (Jack Blakey) expresses his eternal optimism in the presence ofLuigi (Mike Grant). 
Much more than a sit-com 


Michelle McKeever 
Theater review 

It is said that success knows no bounds. From the hearty reception of the audience at O'Laughlin Auditorium last Friday night, it appears that the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre's final production of the year, "We Won't Pay! We Won't Pay!" has followed this proverb well · through blurring the boundaries between situational comedy and social commentary. 
This combination succeeds through adopting a whimsical at­titude towards the uneasy waves of civil strife. The social commentary is not burdensome, but pointed and enlightening. 
Without a doubt, the play's jewel is Monica Smith's portrayal ofAn­tonia. Antonia, the wife ofa prin­cipled but poor factory worker, passes the time by either making ends meet (by any means neces­sary) or by fabricating tall tales to pacify her child-like, idealistic hus­band Giovanni (Jack Blakey). 
Smith's performance emanates confidence and pulls the play toget­her. Much ofher success, however, must be credited to the balance that Blakey's convincing portrayal of the naive conservative adds to her performance. 
The capers ofAntonia and her friend, Margherita (Anne Marie Borgman) provide most ofthe action and suspense ofthe play. It begins when Antonia capitalizes on a rally at the supermarket and takes a load of groceries without paying. Back at her shabby apartment, she relates the story to Margherita and persuades her to assist in "the coverup." The inevitable vaudeville-style chase ensues. 
Peter Hendrickson lends his versatility and talent in portraying the Sergeant, the Lieutenant, Giovanni's father and the under­taker; Giovanni repeatedly marvels at how alike each of these charac­ters look. He tells his best friend, Luigi (Michael Grant), that the phenomenon reminds him ofa cheap production company he has seen which didn't have enough 
Because ofa reporting error, two ofthe answers to the trivia contest printed last Monday were inac­curate. The dome has been guilded a total of eight times. and the ground-breaking for the Cushwa­Leighton Library was on Oct. 17, 1980. 
actors. This tongue-in-cheek humor typifies the mood of "We Won't Pay!" 
Despite the lightheartedness, there is a serious political undercur­rent. The theme ofgovernment over-involvment and the establish­ment's supression of the masses is pervasive. The characters are living under the shabbiest ofconditions, and struggling for mere survival. 
Luigi strikes a climax when he turns to stealing himself. This un­characteristic action marks his transition from a blind loyalist to one who has a se111se of his own political efficacy and social respon­sibility. This could have been the most meaningful moment of the play -had it not recieved such a disappointingly shallow treatment. 
"The play on th•e whole, however, provides a night oflighthearted humor and fast-paced entertain­memt. "We Won't Pay!", through not entirely sucoessful in its focus, manages to combine the rancor of situational comedy with the relevance ofsocial commentary. 
Those staying Jor commence­ment week will have the oppur­tunity to see final performances on May 16 or 17, at 8 p.m. 
Above: Antonia talks to Margherita. Below: Anton­ia and Giovanni argue. Left: Giovanni finds some­thing ofinterest. 
Monday, May 6, 1985 -page 7 
End of the beginning 
Marc Ramirez 
Strange days indeed 
Prepare for your final lesson. 
See the Golden Dome. Now that you have spent a whole year in its shadow, you certainly have become much wiser in the ways of DuLac. You also should have your priorities straight by now, and given the choice on a cool May afternoon ofsoaking in sunshine and Stroh's or studying for your history final, you should know which road to take. 
See the dining halls lurking on opposite sides of the campus. Lurk, lurk, lurk. Now you really know why people smile as they leave the,dining halls. Are they smiling because the food was yummy and scrumptious? Are they smiling because they couldn't get enough? No, they are smiling because they are getting out of the darn place. 
See the handicapped ramps leading in and out ofthe dining halls. In the winter people go sprawling all over them. Sprawl, sprawl, sprawl. Sometimes, when people fall they will emit cries ofpain. Now you know why they are called handicapped ramps. People become handicapped when trying to use them. 
See the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore sitting innocently between Badin and Walsh. Why does it have such a fancy name? Because it sells things at fancy prices. Also because alumni and tourists are impressed by fancy names and they will pay very high prices to get souvenirs that say Notre Dame on them. 
See the Notre Dame Credit Union. Although it says Notre Dame on it, it is not for sale. But you would not want to buy it anyway. The Credit Union is a very dangerous place. It wants your money. If you ever want to see your money again, do not let the Credit Union have it. They charge you for everything. Charge, charge, charge. If you are not careful, they may charge you for admission. 
Do you see the student government offices? They are on the second floor ofLaFortune. Strange things happen in student government. Things are going topsy-turvy all the time. If you enjoy a good destruction derby, you will enjoy student government. There are very few rules. Sometimes, you can even make them up as you go along. And the best thing is, very few people really care whether you do or not. 
Do you smell something? Is it unpleasant? Does it remind you of the time Spotty lost control on the carpet? Or the liver your mother made you eat last summer? It is the aroma of ethanol, and you should be used to it by now. Ethanol is a very wonderful thing. It makes you happy. Happy that you live somewhere else. 
See the soon-to-be Yuppies strutting about. Strut, strut, strut. They are spreading. Soon they will be everywhere. It is a very scary thought. Don't let their innocent manner fool you. Ifyou are in their professional way they will stomp right ove~; you. Beware ofa Yuppie who has just encountered a broken rung on the ladder of success. This is a very traumatic event for a Yuppie. They wonder what happened since they did everything right. Can you say "failure?" Most Yuppies are not psychologically able to handle it. 
See the cockroaches scurrying about your room. Scurry, scurry, scurry. They already have spread. They already are everywhere. But unlike Yuppies, cockroaches will be around forever. And to tell you the truth, I would rather have a roomful ofcockroaches than a roomful ofYuppies. 
Review your notes over the course of the last year. You are probably very familiar with the word "no" by now. This is the word that comes down all the time from the bigwigs who work in the Dome. Get used to hearing this word. You will hear it again when you are a senior and looking for a job, and you will continue to hear this word for the rest ofyour life. 
See the seniors who are graduating. They have been here for four long, boring years. They have gone through four South Bend winters. They never had a real student center. They never saw Notre Dame win a national championship. For this they should be respected. Seniors are often very happy. They have their priorities straight. They have lots offun. Fun, fun, fun. Soon their relation­ships with Notre Dame will be history. 
Ifyou have a job, the Real World is not such a bad place. If you have a job and enjoy it, the Real World is even better. And if you are fortunate enough someday to not have to get a job, you will alm1!st certainly enjoy that, and in that case, the Real World is one easy cakewalk. 
See how everything hinges on whether or not you have a job. Hinge, hinge, hinge. Whose fault is that? Not mine. 
See the parents coming to Notre Dame to see their sons and daughters graduate. Don't they look proud? Don't they look excited? Of course they do. You'd be excited too if you had one less mouth to feed. See the parents roam the campus like ants. Roam, roam, roam. They are more excited than their sons and daughters. They are practically jumping up and down. Why? Because now that their offspring are graduating, they won't have continue giving arms and legs in order to keep the Golden Dome's accounts payable department happy. 
See the seniors at commencement. They are breathing collective sighs ofrelief. Breathe, breathe, breathe. They have experienced this feeling many times before. They experience it and the end of every year. But this one is different. For many of them, this is the last time. But do they care? Ofcourse not. They have learned from South Bend and Notre Dame that things can change at a moment's notice, just like that. 
Class dismissed. 
~i~~~_()__i_Il__t_________________M_on-da-y,_Ma-y6_,1_98_5_p_a~-8 
An extremely happy tale of very trusting parents 
"The only way to make a man trustworthy is to trust him; and the surest way to make him untrustworthy is to distrust him and shou•your distrust." 
-Henry Lewis Stimson 

Once upon a time, in d land called Camelot, there lived a boy who had the good fortune to 
Mike Sullivan 
on 24-hour call 

be his parents' first-born. He knew that he would be expected to handle more respon­sibility than his younger brother and sisters, and it was this responsibility to blaze his own trail that he enjoyed a great deal. 
Now this boy worked hard in school and was blessed with enough intelligence to do very well. He did well enough, in fact, that, when he reached the end of high school, he was allowed to go to the school of his choice. A school with a great golden dome lighting the sky in good weather and bad, a school with beautiful lakes and a wonderfully quiet place where he could light candles and spend some time thinking. 
And even though his high imag<~ of the school was sometimes tarnished during his four-year stay, the golden dome would always be bright, the candles would always be flicker• ing and the Blessed Mother would always be looking down on him and his schoolmates. 
The boy also realized that his parents, al­though they had waved goodbye and left him alone at the place with the golden dome in hopes that he would learn to make his own decisions without having them around to help him, never really had abandoned him to fend for himself. The bills were paid by his father who was willing to cash in life insurance policies to give him and his siblings the best education possible, and his mother was al­ways around to give him advice if he needed it. 
But as the four years quickly went hy, the boy, who was just as quickly becoming a man, began to realize that there was something his parents had done that was much more impor­tant than paying the bills. They had shown him they trusted him to make the correct deci­sions in their absence -something that meant a great deal to him. 

Never had his parents told him what deci­sion to make, even though he had made some wrong choices before, because they realized that he would never learn if he did not make some mistakes to learn from, and that he would never be able to totally trust anyone else or himself, if he was not trusted. 
At first, the boy fully did not realize how much his parents' trust meant to him, but as he met schoolmates-some ofthem friends, some not -that were not really trusted by their parents, he began to realize how much his parents' trust meant to him. 
He saw how a friend or two never could really trust him, even though he did nothing to make them distrust him. He saw people who didn't trust their roommates and friends enough to tell them what was on their minds. He saw people who ended up declaring majors or going into fields that they didn't want to because their bill-paying parents "suggested" they do it. He saw friends who never were able to grow up and be themselves because they were too busy being something they felt they were expected to be. 
The boy-turned-man gradually came to realize that, although his parents were 600 miles away, they were doing something for him every time he made a choice, whether right or wrong, just by trusting him to make the decision on his own. He knew that he would never be able to thank them ade­quately, but he felt that he didn't really need to, because, unlike himself, his parents knew what was going on from the start. 
Finally, there came a time when the man­who-once-was-a-boy was a few weeks away from leaving the place with the golden dome forever. He knew that he could have gotten higher grades and he knew that he could have received a good job offer with a good salary. He also knew that he had caused himself un­necessary hardships by making some bad choices. 
But he also knew that he was ready for any situation, no matter how tough, that he would face in the world beyond Camelot and the gol­den dome. Of course, he had his trusting parents to thank for that. 
And they all lived happily ever after. 
Mike Sullivan is a senior history/ALPA majoratNotre Dame. 

'Where two are three are gathered' at Notre Dame 
Notre Dame is a Catholic university. As a university, it must he concerned with the in­tellectual growth of its students. As a Catholic 
Mike lalacci 
Carroll corner 

instutution, it must he concerned with their spiritual growth a.~ well. 
Notre Dame ha.~ realized its need to provide spiritual guidance for its students. The PACE report states "Young people need more guidance in forming their conscience and greater encouragement to live the lives Christ taught us to live." 
lbe best way to teach Christ's message is to live Christ's message. Christ himself taught words must be backed by action, and he him­self hacked his teachings through his love for his people -eventually played out his death through dying on a cross. 
Notre Dame needs individuals who not only profess God's message but live it as well. Students need to come in contact with such men and women in the classroom, in the ad­ministration and in the dormitory. When Notre Dame acquires such people, she should hold them with hoops ofsteel. 
Unfortunately for Notre Dame and for her students, one man who has selflessly walked the way of Christ will not be here next year. I speak of Father Steve Gibson. 
Father Steve, as everyone affectionately calls him, is a man with a vision. He believes the students under his charge are no longer children but men. He treats them with respect. He gives them responsibility. He trusts them. And most importantly, he loves them. 

As an insecure and lonely freshman, I came to know and respect Father Steve. His love was demonstrated by his actions. He worked all summer to create a comfortable social space at Carroll where there was none before. He built an ice rink. He opened up a barber­shop. 
Yet it was not simply his selfless dedication that touched me, but his genuine concern for his students. He wanted to help us. Many a time he has stuck out his neck for students. He has given many a second chance. He has been accessible and compassionately moved by our problems. Whenever I was confused or troubled, I sought his advice. 
From his dedication to his students, from his selflessness, a community sprouted at Car­roll Hall like a lily in a desert. Carroll Hall had been a an incoherent and disparate group of individuals. Now it was a home. 
At Carroll Hall there exists a mutual love and admiration that is rare at any institution anywhere. Such a community is the epitome of Catholicism. "Wherever two or three are gathered in my name, there I am," Christ said. We at Carroll Hall are gathered in his name. 
To disrupt the Carroll community would he to wound the Christian guidance Notre Dame so yearns for. Yet we at Carroll Hall are losing more than an able administrator. We are losing a friend whom we love. Please keep Fat­her Steve. 
Mike Ialacci is a sophomore in the Arts & Letters Science Honors Program at Notre Dame and is a regular Viewpoint colmnist. 

r 
r Professor Rogers turned life into a work of art 
~ 
Toward the end of my freshman year, I wa.~ struggling to make a decision about my major. I heard of a different-sounding major called 
Vernon Marchal 
afterwords 

the Program of Liberal Studies and decided to go to an informational meeting. 
'!be principal speaker at this meeting wa.~ a program professor named Stephen Rogers. His message wa.~ not a pitch, but rather a simple invitation. He invited those present to join a community oflearners dedicated to the best that had been "thought and said in the world." I remember being impressed with what he s;1id about the program. But, more than this, I remember how soothing Rogers' words Wt're. In my state of indecision, he salved my anxieties and charmed my heart and my mind. By the end of his talk, I had decided to enroll in the program. 
Stephen Rogers died the Friday before la.~t. 
Garry Trudeau 
As a former student of his, I feel compelled to share a little of the man who shared so much with this University. 
When I think of Rodgers I recall the Samuel Butler quotation that "Life is the art of drawing sufficient conclusions from insuffi­cient premises." Rogers celebrated life, and he made the art that Butler described his voca­tion. It was with a singular joy that he nurtured those who pursued this art with him, and it was with an amazing dedication that he seemed to turn his own life into a work ofart. 
His art was affected by his experience. Blind since his youth, Rogers carried out his life and his work in the face of this profoundly insuffi­cient premise. I often marveled at how a man with no sight could so brilliantly treat the many books we read in the program. I had the advantage ofsight, and I could not even keep up with the material. 
Rogers exhibited an extraordinary sen­sitivity to human suffering. Gentle by nature, he was well acquainted with the distress that we all feel in the face of our insufficient premises. He often told a story about how, in taking a cab to the University one day, he had asked to be let off at the Law School, but had in fact been let off somewhere else. Alone and confused, he was faced with the challenge of collecting himself and trying to figure out where he was. 

He told his students that life confronts us all with similar predicaments. They are at times humorous (Rogers was the first to laugh at his miscues), at times exhilirating, at times wearying and at times terrifying. Rogers, it seemed, could not bring himself to blame anyone for slipping up in trying to make sense of it all. 
He believed it took much courage to live with one's doubts and mistakes, and to attend to the truth ofone's existence-however con­fusing it may be-as that truth presented itself. 
When one of Rogers' students felt espe­cially down, he was glad to see him. Roger's gave students a reason to believe in them­selves, no matter what the difficulty. I often thought "Ifa man as wise as he can believe in me in spite ofall my ignorance, then perhaps I ought to believe in myself too." 
He believed in people not in spite of their 
ignorance, hut because of it. He knew that a 
Doonesbury 


student struggling with the big questions would often feel inadequate. This, to him, was a sign of what he liked to call the "spark of genius" in a person -the unique quality of those trying to turn their life into a work ofart. He was ever ready to help his students through disappointment and failure, so they could face future challenges with confidence and hope. 
From Rogers, I learned that while we all are saddled with imperfection and doubt, we can turn these facts of our existence around and make them work in our favor. Indeed, it was his belief that we could make them life­promoting rather than life-threatening. As human beings, he thought that we were all called to this task. 
And, in our best moments, he believed that we could turn this into a work ofart. 
Vemon Marchal is a senior in the Program ofLiberal Studies and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Quote of the day "Outta here." 
-Sir Obnoxious 

"ielYP-~O_i_n_t~--------------------------------------------M_o_nd_a~y~,_M_ay~6~·-1~9s_s__~p~ag~e9 
Do not perpetuate suffering, but prevent it 
An analogy was told to me recently, and as it applies to the world situation today, I would like to share it with you. It concerns injustice. It concerns horror. It concerns life as we know it. 
Once upon a time there was a housewife. 
David Kroeger Wednesday's child 
She was a woman ofstrong morals and strong convictions. She was a friend to everyone and would often go out of her way to be generous to strangers. This woman had everything -a large home, a large family and a wonderful husband. 
Then, for some unknown reason, things began to go wrong. The woman's husband was killed in a tragic car accident caused by a drunken driver. The housewife was dis­traught. She did not know what to do or to whom to turn to receive an explanation for such a horrible event. So, she devised an ex­planation on her own. 
The housewife began to accuse the man who had caused the accident. She said he was an evil man who had no right to live. She 
Law students support retiring ND professor 
DearEditor: 
Law school Professor Charles Crutchfield is 
retiring next month. 
For ten years, Crutchfield worked very hard 
to establish two unique law school courses. 
The Street Law Program sends law students to teach high schoolers their rights, duties and responsibilities in our legal system. 
Public Interest Law is the other course Crutchfield has developed over the past decade. This course instructs future lawyers in working for the public good-a true rarity in law schools these days. 
Unfortunately, there is a movement afoot to undo what Crutchfield has worked so hard to establish. The administration of the Notre Dame Law School is seeking to either cancel or gut these courses for questionable reasons. This is very disturbing, as these are truly great courses, and more importantly, these courses most emulate the altruistic spirit for which Notre Dame and the legal profession are supposed to stand. 
We are sad to see Crutchfield go, but we 
will not idly watch the dissemblance of his 
life's work. 
We, the undersigned law students, protest any move to alter these courses, urge that these courses remain exactly as currently structured and challenge the dean of the law school to reveal his plans before the school year ends. 
108 LawSchool Students University ofNotre Dame 

Raises questions about ISO's election results 
Dear Editor: 
The International Student Organization serves an obvious purpose; to stand as a voice for those visiting our country. For this reason, several questions need to be raised concern-realized, of course, that it was ridiculous to think that anyone was inherently evil, but common sense began to slip away after she began to tell everyone else ofher misfortune. The woman became possessed with the idea that this man must never again be allowed in public, much less on the street, and she used the resources of her family to punish him as best she could. 
Soon, the man died. Yet the housewife still refused to believe that he no longer threatened her. She even hated the man after his death, and could not forgive him. She cried and cried for her husband to come back to her, hoping in some way, I suppose, tftat the hatred that she bore inside her would some­how bring her dead husband back to life. To friends, relatives and bums on the street she preached her beliefthat drunken drivers were inherently evil people and that drunken driving should be stopped. She believed that she was doing the public a great service by keeping the horrid man who had killed her husband six feet under the ground. Yes, that would certainly stop drunken driving. 
Meanwhile, the woman entertained a great 
many sympathizers and well-wishers in her 
home. Five years passed and she still con­
tinued to exton the evil of the man now long 
dead in the cemetery. Those who visited her were: sensitive to her grief and allowed her to go on with the thought that she would even­tually come back to her senses and get on with her life. They began to shut out the repetition and nodded along with her, seeming to agree. 
llte housewife was still at a loss, though. She decided to found a commission on how her husband was allowed to die. She even built a monument to her husband. The car in which he had died was bronzed and placed in a large park created in the back yard of her house. By this time, ten years had passed and visitors could stil1 expect the same lecture ex­cept that now a guided tour of the memorial was included. 
After twenty years, visitors began to be fewer in number. Some suggested that the hous.ewife carry her cause to help others who had lost loved ones due to drunken drivers. The housewife, however, could not accept the fact that millions of others were dying in accidents caused by drunken drivers. They were oflittle importance in comparison with her husband. She was indignant that anyone would think that her work was incomplete. "Respect the dead!" she cried. Meanwhile, the 
millions kept dying while the housewife spent 
her time pruning the shrubbery in the 
memorial. 

Finally, the 40th anniversary of her bus-
P.O. B(]~X Q 
ing the ISO's recent election ofofficers. 
Why was the election held on a different date than specified in the ISO constitution? Why did only thirty people receive notifica­tion of this change in time to vote? Why did the former administration oversee the elec­tions instead of the election committee stip­ulated by the constitution? And, finally, why is the new president an American? But why should I be surprised? I understand the same things take place in South Africa. 
Steve Mrenna Carroll Hall 

National MS chairman wishes to thank campus 
Dear Editor: 
On behalf of The National Multiple Sclerosis Society, I want to congratulate the student body of Notre Dame and two very special and important people, Aline Gioffre and Vince Willis. As chairman of the board, I want all of the students on your campus to know how much the society values your in­volvement in leading the tight against MS. 
The University of Notre Dame campaign has helped to set the pace for co11ege campuses nationwide. As the most successful of the original 12 universities in the program, students in every state can look to your campus as the pioneer of this fight. When the MTV concert is broadcast next month, everyone in South Bend can be proud that the nation's eyes are focused on you. 
Notre Dame's exce11ence has confirmed a 
belief that co11ege students would want to 
become involved with the society because 
multiple sclerosis is a young adult's disease, 
striking just when you begin to build your 
adult life. I know firsthand how this disease 
affects young adults as my daughter, who is 
36, has had MS for 14 years. 
I have been involved in the Students Against Multiple Sclerosis program from the time it was just an idea to last Saturday night's con­cert. Seeing the overwhelming success of the program on you campus gives our organiza­tion hope that the cause and cure of Multiple Sclerosis can be found. Notre Dame's achieve­ments have helped to insure that we wil1 be able to raise the funds necessary to achieve this goal. I have no doubt that your generation wi11 be able to claim it put multiple sclerosis behind us. 
Clifford Goldsmith Chairman ofthe Board National MS Society 
]Let the South Bend Symphony play for all 
DearEditor: 
It is similar to the mentality your mother used to rely on to get you to eat broccoli, and it still holds true. If you do not try the South Bend Symphony, you will never know whet­her or not you will like it. 
After all, 1500 subscribers last season could not be wrong. Not to mention that out of 14 concerts scheduled for the 1985-86 season, sure! y everyone canfind at least one to suit his or her taste. 
Why, then, do the words "Symphony Or­chestra," continue to frighten people away? Many students do not even realize that South Bend has a symphony, or else they feel that the Symphony has nothing to offer them. 
A common misconception is that the Sym­phony only performs classical concerts. Granted, those whose ears have never ex­perienced anything other than AC/DC might find the Symphony quite different, yet not un­enjoyable. 
Rarely does a symphony offer only a classi­cal season, including the South Bend Symphony. This upcoming 85-86 season wi11 featu:re three very different programs which appeal to many different types of people. For the classical lovers, the Symphony has scheduled seven concerts featuring guest ar­tists from Cho-Laing Lin to our own Notre Dame faculty member, Karen Buranskas. 
Ifclassical music is not your style, the Sym­phony has begun a Sunday afternoon Cham­ber Orchestra series. One of the highlghts of this series will be the performance ofHandel's "Messiah" in December. Laura Klugherz, anot­her familiar Notre Dame faculty member wi11 be a featured guest in February. 
The four Sunday night Pops concerts will be "Pops Laugh-In," "Fiedler's Favorites," "Big Band Sounds" and "Broadway Salute." The Pops concerts are always a guaranteed good time and sure to get you in the mood for more. 
There are not good excuses for not trying the Symphony. You think it is too expensive? By arriving fifteen minutes before a concert, a student can receive a 1!3 Rush Seat to sit anywhere in the balcony. It is cheaper than taking a date to a movie, and more impressive, too. Season tickets for the three series run bet­ween 525 and $36 for reserved student tick­ets. 
There is no reason not to take time out for culture. Let the South Bend Symphony play for you. 
Kathleen M. Conley Saint Mary's 

ND Credit Union still is not justified to start fee 
Dear Editor: 
I want to personally thank the 1,500 people who signed the petition protesting the new service charge by the Notre Dame Credit Union. 
I have sent out letters to Chairman of the Board Richard Thompson and to the Director ofthe Supervisory Board Daniel Osberger. On Thursday May 2, I met with the president of NDCU. She told me what Amy Stephan wrote in last Wednesday's Observer article -that banks without service charges are the excep­tion, not the rule -is accurate. Believe it or not, the charges are reasonable compared to other banking institutions. St. Joseph's Bank, 
1st Source Bank, and American Valley Bank have a $5 service charge for accounts under $500. 
Most of us do not earn any interest on our deposits, so what it comes down to is that the Credit Union holds our money for free. 
Now, they want to charge us money for this. I think it would be better to start hiding our money in our mattresses. This would provide 
easy access,  more  security and  no  service  
charges.  
john D. Gardiner  
StanfordHall  

=  Ihe. Observer~.  
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556  (219) 239-5303  
The Observer  IS  the  Independent  newpaper  publ1she<.J by  the students of  the  

Un1vers1ty of Notre Dan,,' du Lac and Sa1nt Mary"s College. It does not necessarily reflect the poliCies of the Jdm1n1Strat10n of either mst1tution. The news is reported as accurately and as obwct1vely as poss1ble. Uns1gned editorials represent the opinion of a maJOrity of the Ed1tor•al Board~ Commentanes. letters and the Inside Column present the v1ews of the1r authors. Column space IS available to all members of the commun1ty. and the free express1on of varymg op1n1ons en campus. through letters. 
•s encouraged 
Editorial Board 
EdJtor·1n·Ch1el Managmg Ed1tor. News Ed1tor News Edttor Sam I Mary·s Execuflve Ed1tor Sports Ed1lor Accent Ed1tor V1ewpomt Ed1tor Photograp.hy Ed1tor Copy Ch1el. 
Sarah E. Ham• Iton Amy Stephan Ke1th Hamson Jr Dan McCullough Theresa Guanno Jeff Bklmb Mary Healy Joe Murphy Peter C Laches Frank L1po 
band's death came. News came to the housewife that someone was putting flowers on the grave of the man whom she had hated for so long. She flew into a rage and publicized her belief that the flowers should not be laid on the grave. "But, he is a human just like us," came the reply. And now the housewife, who had spent so many years telling herself that this man was evil, refused to believe such an explanation. 
She thought that the flowers should be laid on her husband's grave, as her husband was a far better man and he deserved sympathy far more than the sinning drunken driver. She went to the person who wanted to lay flowers on the sinner's grave and insisted on an ex­planation, at which point she was told,"You have spent so much time worrying about your husband that you have ignored others who have died because of the same thing. There is enough suffering in the world; do not per­petuate it, prevent it." With that the person turned and went back to his home. The housewife left too, presumably to prune the shrubs and to entertain what few visitors she had left. 
David Kroeger is a sophomore in the Col­lege ofArts and Letters Honors Program and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Department Managers 
Bus1ness Manager. Dav•d StephenItch Advert1s1ng Manager Anne Cull1gan Controller B•ll H•ghducheck Systems Manager Mark B Johnson Product1on Manager John A Menne!• 
Founded November 3, 1966 

The Ohsert'<'l" :'l<otn· Dan1<· oltkl'. lm Jlnl on thl' third lloor of' l.al·oriUn<· ."'icudcrH <:cnCt'r. an.:<:pi!\ <.:I.J."o!\ifi<:d .td\'t'rli.,ing fron19 .J m until 1 p 01 ...\1ontJa~ through l·ridJ\ The Ohserr•t•r Saint \Ian·, oltt<T. lo< Jtl'll on Ill<· third flour ol llaggar Colkg<· ( .l'llll'f. anTpt' da"ifinl' lrom 12 .~11 p rn Unlil .~pIll ..\Ion· dav tiH>Ugh l·rtda\ lkadhnl' fliT n<·xt·dJ\ liJ'"Iinl' " ~ r rn All cla"tfil'lh lllU't hl' prl'patd. l'tthl'r Ill Pl'"on or h\ lllJil. ( :lurgl'" I 0 l'l'nt' rwr h\'l' l'haral
Classifieds 
ler~ l·r dav. 
NOTICES 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-811117 
WORDPROCESSING • 2n-6045. 
TYPING 277-8534 aile< 5:30 
Wordproc...lng and Typing 272-8827 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-70011. 
GOVERNMENT HOME from $1 (U rapalr). Al•o delinquent ... propiH'ty. 
C.ll 80~7-6000 Ext. GH-11834 lor In-• formation. 
Be Smart' Beat the rush' Sell your books lor $$ Books bought M-F Pandora's Books, 937 South Bend Ave (1 block from Corby's). 
ATTENTION: Santor tS graduanng and needs roomates to live tn CHICAGO Call anytime: CHAPIN at t589 
LONG ISLAND CLUB TRUCK!! LONG ISLAND CLUB TRUCK" LONG ISLAND CLUB TAUCKI! Yes. there wtll be a baggage truck g01ng to long Island!!!!!! The truck wtll be loedmg on Sunday. be­htnd the Admtn Biding startmg at 12 noon and ending at 3PM. Info wtll be tn the matl early next week LONG ISLAND CLUB TRUCK!' LONG ISLAND CLUB TAUCK!! LONG ISLAND CLUB TRUCK!! 
Dnvers needed to det1ver the Observer next year. Must be available to work from 
10:30 a.m to 1 :p.m on weekdays Flextble schedule and good pay. To apply contact Mark Potter at the Observer or call 239-5303 
Looktng for a rtde<. Wtlf drop ott anywhere along route to Aoenoke.VA Gorng through Indy. C1nncman1. etc. Leavmg between 7 and 12pm 11 May Call Jerry, 3084 
... 
LOSTIFOuND I 
LOST:IN SOUTH DINING HALL on Aprtl 
25. a green backpack contam tng 3 lolders. 3 notebooks. an accountmg book, a management book. pens. penCils. a cal­culator. 3 packs ol gum. and other Impor­tant stuff. If you have any tnfo about this. thmk you know where it m1ght be. or just wanl to lalk, call Chrts at 3244 or 3243. I really need thts stuff for ftnals Thanks. 
LOST: A green Comparative Government notebook and a red Poltttcal Theory notebook They both have my name, dorm, and room number 1n them. If found, contact John K1lcran 1n Sorm Hall, room 
335. My number 102196 
To the pe<son who thought that it would be cute to remove the set of keys from the secunty vehicle on Sr. Marys campus frtday ntght, the jOke was taken ve<y seriously. If you have any 1nlormat1on. please call 239-6334 or 232-9332 eventngs NO QUESTIONS ASKED. 
LOST; royal blue back pack has 3 
notebooka and 2 books last seen tn the 
South Dtntng Hall on Frtday the 26. 
PLEASE return it I need If for ltnals. Trav 
2729 
Witt tha peraon who "borr..-" the lrlah p..nter from the MCr...ry·a -k In 356 O'Shag, pi•..• return It-no quHtlona aaked. It ,... a gll1 from another O'Shag aecr...ry aevaral yMraago. 
IF YOU TOOK A PRINCIPLES OF MARKETING BY ACCIDENT FAOM F· LINE IN NORTH DINING HALL ON TUESDAY APRIL 30 BETWEEN 12:30 AND 1:00,1 AEALL Y NEED THAT BOOK FOR A FINAL YOU CAN HAVE IT AFTER CALL KIM AT 4205 NO QUES­TIONS ASKED. AEALL Y 
LOST: BRASS KEY RING MONDAY NIGHT, APRIL29. AT SENIOR BAA IF FOUND PLEASE CALL ANN AT 284­
4438 
FOUND. BROWN SUNGLASS--AFTER THE BLUE/GOLD GAME·-CALL 3035 AND ASK FOR PAUL TO IDENTIFY 
FOUND; BLACK WATCH-·GOLF COURSE--TUESDAY 4/3Q--CALL 3035 AND ASK FOR PAUL TO IDENTIFY 
LOST: A trt·color 14K gold mesh bracelet wtth a clasp fasten on Frtday 4·27·85 Th's t& an anntversary present and has great sentimental value If found please contact Aoaanne 239-6436 at the Ftnan· ctal Ald Qtftce Reward ot $25 ts offered tf found. 
LOST: BEIGE· BROWN JACKET ON THURS. 4/251N HAYES HEALY BASE· MENT IF FOUND. SPARE ME MOM'S WRATH AND CALL BOB AT 1175. NO Q'SASKED 
LOST: Levt's blue dentm 1acket. at Santor Bar on Mon ntght My name IS on the tnOide of the coat PLEASE call me. my soults tn that (8Cket Thanks 
LOST (or stolen?). one brtghl red 14' canoe W1th Strange Canoe Rentals patnted on the stde The canoe walked away from Lake Manon Thursday, Apr~ I 25 about 8:30 pm. If you have any tn­formatton calf the AN TOSTAL offtce at 239-7froa. We won't ask any questtons. 

··Joat" ..blue bookbag m the south dinmg hall. It could have walked off but I believe someone has 1t. My name is all over the 5 notebooks 1ns1de. please g1ve me a calf or drop tt off where you found it. If I go through ftnals W1thout 11 I W1111orever pray that you are hit head on by a semi. 
LOST-FULL SET OF KEYS. I believe they were lost on the North Quad. There is a Cadeucis (medtcal symbol) on them. If found call Glenn at272-1869 
LOST: 1 blue bookbag. in South Dining Hall. Need for finals'! Call Jerry at 3084. 
If nice guys fmish last. then scum must f1n1sh first. Dear btke th1eves: I'll be waiting at the fin1sh hne. 
Some Or1ental Guy 
Loat Stiver Setko watch at baseball dtamond behtnd the ACC. If found please call Mike at 1624. Reward offered. 
LOST: HEWLETT PACKARD HP10 CAL­CULATOR in 2:20 Phystcs 128 crass if lound please call Mtck at 1767. 
FOR RENT 

FOR RENT: GRADUATE STUDENTS ONLY 2-Badroom Houaa 1 mile from C.mpu•. Completely Aemodeled­$350.00/Month C•ll 287-4107 at 6 p.m. lorappt. 
5-bedroom houae available for next achool yMr. Completely lurnlahed. Call 234-9364. 
LAAGE,GOAGEOUS.HOUSE AVAILABLE FOA SUMMER SUB· LET.LIVE IN STYLE 2MI FAOM CAMPUS.VEAY REASONABLE 2n­6844 
I WANTED 
NL..E-EO_G_R-AO_T_IX-.W-1-ll-P-AY_$$_$_,J_O_JHN 
234-9580 
WORK OUTSIDE THIS SUMMER MIC· HIGAN SUMMER CAMP ts looktng for counselors. cooks, unit leaders. waterfront director. Instructors-swim­ming. rowboat1ng. canoe1ng. horseback r1dmg. archery, woodworking, drama. crafts, blkmg, nature studies. Must hve on prem1ses 9 weeks. College credit pos­stble. Salary plus room and board. Call: Camp Chtef Maktsabee-(616) 424-5272. 
Atde needed: ALBANY /1-90 after Sat May 11. Mark2153 
NEED RIDE TO ATLANTA! Can leave after 5/13. Will share ex­penses. Call Andrea x3880. 
NEED AlDERS to KANSAS CITY and WEST as far as UTAH' leaving 4/20 call Paul4006 
1 Aider needed to Jex, Florida or? along the way. leaving Tuesday the 14th. Call Davtd at 3123. 
Part bme Job! Need help laying sod, $4.00/h call277-7660 
RIDER TO CENTRAL NEW JERSEY (Middletown, Lincroft. Holmdel, etc.) NEEDED !! Will RENT CAR & LEAVE 5/12 OA 5/13...CALL PAT AT 3317 or 3318. 
WANTED: A ROOMMATE FOR NICE CHEAP HOUSE. CALL RALPH. 1486 
Need a ride to ROCHESTER/ UPSTATE NY. CanleaveanyttmeMon. 5/13orlater. Teny 1888 
AIDER NEEDED: To Akron-Cleveland area, on Tuesday 5/t4. Call284-4416 
NEED MEMBER ND-SMC COMMUNITY TO DRIVE NEW CAATO SEATTLE AND DRIVE CAR BACK BY JUNE 15. CAll 232-0453. 
HELP,I NEEOARIOETOO.C.OAN. VA. . can leave SAT. NIGHT.5-11 PLEASE CALL3646 
Onvers needed to dehver the Observer next year Must be ava1lable to work from 
10:30 to t:OO p.m. on weekdays. Flextble schedule and good pay. To apply contact Mark Potter at the Observer or call 
239·5303. 
NEED RIDE TO MONTREAL OA CLOSE TO. CAN LEAVE SAT MAY 11 WILL SHARE EXPENSES CALL MARTIN 233-1314 
Rtde OESPERA TEL Y needed to BOS­TON Monday May 13 Share expenses. etc. PLEASE call Cathy 2755! 
WANTED TO BUY· MACINTOSH 512K COMPUTER, IMAGE WRITER, AND EX· TERNAL DISK DRIVE. CALL 234-4027 9 A.M. TO 6 P.M. 
.3HELPIROOMMATE NEEDED 'LOOKING FOR FEMALE TO SHARE 2 BOAM APATMT IN NW CfliCAGO SUB· UABS :SCHAUMBUAG.MT.PAOSPECT .ARLINGTON HGTS.ACCESS TO TOL· LWAYS.STAATING IN JUNE.CALL AN· GEL1273 ASAP!', 1 
FOR SALE 

6-UNIT APARTMENT FOR SALE. NO-MEMORIAL AREA. EXCELLENT CONDITION 233-9728 232-4528 
Is It True You Can Buy Jeeps lor $44 through the U.S. government? Get the !acts today! Call 1-312-742-1142 Ext. 7316 
FOR SALE: Post Office Jeep, '69, $150, CALL JOHN 234-95HO 
FOR SALE: COMPLETELY REMODELED 2-BEDROOM HOUSE 1 Mil• from C.mpus. GrMtlor ... lnvMI· ment. Land contract •vallable. C.ll alter 6 p.m. lor •ppt. 287-4107 
For Sale: One way a1rline ticket from O'Hare to BOSTON good after May 19, $80 -call Jack ]1527 
BIKE FOR SALE:10 SPEED TAKARA V. GOOD CONO. $no OR BEST OFFER RICK X4384. 
BICYCLE BOOK RACK, call Matt. 3363 
TICKETS 

TWO GRADUATION TICKETS NEEDED IN A BAD WAY JOHN 277-0607 
NEED GRADUATION TICKETS PLEASE CAll PAUL OR JEFF ANYTIME AT 232-4525. 
HELP!! I'M GETTING DESPERATE SENIORS!! I NEED ONE MORE GRADUATION TICKETII WILLING TO PAY TOP DOLLARS FOR THIS TICKETII PLEASE CALL JEFF AT 3859' YOU WON'T AEGnET HELPING A FEL· LOW SENIOR! THANKS II 
NEED 5 GRAD TIX, PLEASE !! CALL KAREN AT 277-6740. 
I NEEDGAAOTIX CALL WOZZ 18120R 3224 
I DESPARATEL Y NEED GRADUATION TICKETS. IF YOU CAN HELP ME PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 1236. Wll· LING TO PAY BIG BUCKS. 
GRADUATION TICKETS? Will pay top dollar' Call Nancy x4225 
I NEED GRAD TIX Call Ketth 3540 

NEED GRAD TICKETII CALL TED AT 232-5645 
HELP! need 3 grad. tix call mark x1204 
$$$$FOR GAAO TIX at 1346 

Ineed tix for graduation. Will pay massive $'s. Call Greg at 1153. 
HHH HELP FAMILY OF 22 SEE GRADUATION! YES, I really DO have 21 brothers and sisters. Do you have t1ckets? Call Angie 287-1505 
I need GRAD TIX1!!! Please call Diane at 289-2245. Dad Wtll pay$$$$ 
445 MILES. that's •long way to walk, but that is how far I'll be going unless I come up with 5, count ·em 5, commencement tickets! Please save me the long walk to Nashville-call John at 1504. Sellers will be properly compensated with mounds of cash. 
I AEALL Y need one graduation ticket. Will pay BIG BUCKS. Eric 3654 
DESPEAATEL Y NEED 1 GRADUATION TICKET WILL PAY $$$ PLEASE CALL KENT 2065 AFTE A 12PM 
I NEED GRAD TIX JEFF 3467 

I Naed Grad Tlx BAD! Will TOP all other offers'$$$ Call Tom 232-6697. 
PERSONALS 

DESPERATELY SEEKING JOSEPH WE MET AT THE RED ONION IN CA AND I LOST YOU IN THE FOGATLONG BEACH. NOW WAITING ANXIOUSLY TO HEAR FROM YOU IN MANHATIEN. 
. "M" 
212·206-6387 

CALIFORNIANS! If anyone can help get some of my stuff home to mid or North. Calif., or wants to co-rent transportation there, I may t)e able to pay a linle more than the usual. Call Mike at 1004. 
Be Smart! Beat tne rush! Sell your books for $$. Books bought M-F Pandora's Books, 937 South Bend Ave ( 1 block from Corby's). 
LAST CHANCE to send •entlment• through THE OBSERVER Clessllieda I• Friday May 3, by 3:00pm lor the final laaue (May 6) of the 1984-85 OBSER· VER or by Thuraday May 16, lor the May 17 GRADUATION ISSUE!! 
Happ) 19th Btrthday 

DREW Sorry we can·t share it W1th you Lots of love, 
Mom, Dad. and Brei 
WANT TO WISH A SENIOR CON­
GRATS? II you're not sure how to express your con­gratulations, why not PUBLISH them? You can place a dtsplay ad tn THE OBSERVER for just $15.95 and wish graduation congratulations. The deadline for placing a graduatton ad tS May 10. 
Student ltatson Commtttee vote for 85/86 club officers at the Snite Museum front desk. Deadline 4:00pm Fnday, May 10. 
To the Wild Women ol Wal•h, especially Sue, Beth, Caroline, Mary El­len, Cathy. Jill, Sheila. Miriam, Cindy. Kim, Mana, Colleen. Nicme. Julie. Maura, Barb (and Susan. Margaret and Mtchelle): Thanks for the tun t1mes. good conversa­tion. helpful advice, and, of course, lhe abuse. 
Phil 
Mr. John A. "Denno" Mennell: Are we crazy. or what? I can't believe we got as much done as we did at three in the morning. Just think, we went from com­puter dating to restaurant rev1ews to leedtng the ducks, and we still couldn't sort our lives out. Remember, you may be man's best friend. but 
'Pup 
M•rgaret: Thanks for listening (even at four in the morn1ng). I Still owe you breakfast in couch. f still want to know who's sending the flowers. though. Have a great sum­mer, and I better hear from you. 
Love. Phil 
RIGGOLO ZIMMER 
YOU'RE A SORE LOSER. Do yourself and everyone else a favor . please seek professional counseling at once. 
The •oon to be ex-Badland• 
It has been a gr8at year and I'm looking forward to doing it aga1n. Enjoy deliver1ng beer. handing out money and delivenng mail this summer. Now the b1g problem­who are we next year. 
Rename the B•dl8nd•. Any n•mea ac­cepted and you know where to lind ue. 
A self referential 1ncons1stency, I m1ght add 
Hey you Gumbettes, how ere you? Where are you? Whet are you? We love you 1nywey 
Better a slut than a lush And a lot of fun I mtght add Although my sfutttng days are over 
What happens when your Smut Commis­Sioner becomes your RA? I guess we will find out 
Hemingway~ 1t has been ternf1cally crazy and a btl off the wall I might add. I'm al­ready psyched for next year. 
CORE IS OVER AT 5:30 Yes, at 5:30 this afternoon. orsometime in that vicinity, members of the class of '87 will be done with it all. It was fun getting to know you all, but those were some of the worst books I never read. 
Production S..ff Thanks Pup, Andi. Troy (a speC1al con­gradulattons for graduation) Paul, Anne. Andy, Maureen, J.A., Mark. Alex, Matt and all Viepornt, Accent and layout staff members. Have a great summer. 
John 
Mike and Madman, We'll miss you! please write. The Denny Waitresses 
To all the future 3-S'ers, the M.E.'s, my Glee Club pals. the Breakfast Crew, lhe Grace and Keenan Quads, my favorite Arktes, the Zoo, the shoeless Sports god, and my wonderfully patient debutante: 
THANKS FOR A GREAT YEAR Have a great summer and remember to WRITE! 
love, Beth 
DC CLUB BAGGAGE TRUCK DC CLUB BAGGAGE TRUCK QUESTIONS? CALL JOHN AT 1726 
HELP ll I need 2 GRAD. TIX for my SISters. Upper or lower arena Please call 2339.$$$ 
5 COMMENCEMENT TICKETS!! Don't laugh, that's how many I need or my family will lynch me. Try lo prevent this spectacle by selling me BAY extras you may have. Call John at 1504. $$$$$$$ 
I'm seeki~ your pity-l've gol5, yes that's 5, sisters. lmagtne trying lo live with them it l don't find them commencement tickets! I'm wtlling to pay any prtce lo avoid their complatnts! Call John at 1504 My ears wtll be eternally grateful. 
DEBBIE-CONGRATULATIONS ON AN OUTSTANDING FIRST YEAR AT NOTRE DAME. ALTHOUGH THERE WEAE MANY NEW CHALLENGES, YOU FACED THEM ALL AND CAME OUT A WINNER. YOU CAN BE PROUD OF All YOUR EFFORTS. WE AREt YOU ARE SPECIAL! LOVE YOU. MAMA 0, DAD. MIKE, AND JENNY 
HEY YOU--WITH THE GREAT LEGS-­PEOPLE LIKE YOU ARE HARD TO FINO .. I'M GLAD I GOT TO KNOW YOU. IF ONLY FOR A WHILE. YES, EVERYTHING'S GONNA WORK OUT.. THANKS FOR EVERYTHING. LOVE YA,LINOA 
GOOD STEREO EQUIP. CHEAP 1527 
DAVID, 
Congratulations! Just what would you have done without your little sis at SMiC to pester you these pasl2 years?! Thanks fo everything! Love ya, Barb Okay. Gutdo and the boys tnstst I pay up some debts before I'm permanently outta here. So bemg of la1rly sound m1nd and body I hearby bequeath unto: Amy Step­han: Dozens and dozens of roses on Valentine's Day Eileen Chang: Olga's passkey Mary Ellen Harrington: The unused por­tion of my bottle ot geek repellent Madman: My funky Senior Bar earrings Pete laches: Plently of hamsters and the smarts to send dozens and dozens of roses on Valentine's Day Eli Queen: Rayless nights at Santor Bar Mary McComts: That dream trip to Beirut Jeff Blumb: All the slugs in my sports file Bill Highducheck: A lifeftme membershtp lo the Tom my Shaw fan club Carol Camp: Domerless dales Mark Poner: A promotion to sophomore status Thanks for the memories. Stgned, Mary 
A. Steger 
DAN HOLLAND-Happy Birthday! \'our lag•lin New \'ork now! Good luck onlln•la. 
JEFF HERMAN-Thla le your l••t per· aonal of the year. Hope having me •• your aecret admirer made your yNr more lun. Some day I will revMI myaall. Here Ia your final clue: You dunked meln the mud pit•. Love, Your Secret Admirer. 
TO LEIGH ANN DONNELLY: Good luck on finals, 1 know you'll do well! I hope you have a n~ce summer-maybe I'll see you around. Take care cutie! LOVE BUZZ 
ROW ZERO ROW ZERO ROW ZERO Party at l.M.'s clothes optional !!! AOWZEAO !!! 

TO THE OBSERVER STAFF: At the hazard of sounding sappy, thanks for g1ving me a home during my 4 years here at NO. Mark. Bob, Anne, Dave G.. the last year was great fun wtfh y'al\. Mary Carol· good luck and stand fast, now that you have a key that works! To the new editorial board-I know you well enough to know you'll continue to make the Ver lhe besl soc1al l1fe alternative at NO! Sarah and Amy -it's n1ce to see women where they belong,IN CONTROL II' Good luck to all and thanks for the fun and memor1es. 
love, Suzanne 

Peggy, I'm so glad your soujourn to Korea IS thumbs up' Good luck dear and watch out at those outdoor meat markets. We'll be thtnking of you from Georgta (every month) and your daily cheer will be so mtssed (I really need a dog.) You're the best o'fnends. thanks for everyfhtng. 
love, szan 

MICHELE BURKHART--Happy Btrthdayt 1 know it's not until the 14th, but f wanted to make sure you got the message smce I won't be here. Have a good t1me 1n Turkey th1s summer! 
MEN OF THE BADLANDS: You really made our freshmen year something spe­cial. I ktdyou NOT. Thanks for showing us that even gumbetts can have friends. Yoor all Tasty Munches and Delicious Oelectables (we've added a few words to our vocabulary). By the way. Dan, hope you don't have eyestratn lrom the Tommy Shaw concerl, I mean. Vantty's not worth ruining your eyesight. Love, The Gum· banes 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY AMY DARLINGTON! Won'l be able to wish you a happy day on the 141h, so this is a bit early. Apmembe< those Molsons you gave me the night of the Christmas formal? I do! Have one today! Your legal in Canada, so go for the Canadian beer' love, Cathy. 
Jake and Geese--Thanks for betng my "Dear Abby" psychologists! Have a good summer and try to be good. Jake-Do you "gots to know" still? You've only got a couple more days to find out! Geese--Try not to get too upset about you-know-who, "Things work out for the besl in the end, in any event.·· It's only tor one year. anyway. What's one year out of all lhe ones you can spend together in the future? Love. Cathy. 
HAPPY 19th BIRTHDAY, COLLEEN PRENTICE' Now you can drtnk in New York. Hope this summer is as much fun for you as N.D. seems to be. Good Luck. Love. lhe women in 219, 
Con--Thanks for being my room1e this 9ear! Next year 1s going to be a riot! Hope you can frnd some time to come see me. You'll probably be buried underneath a huge pile of books--but at least you won't be burled under your typewriter. Ha ha. 
Drivers needed to deliver the Observer next year. Must be available to work from 
10:30 to 1:00 p.m. on weekdays. Flexible schedule and good pay. To apply contact Mark Potter at the Observer or call 239­5305 
mr. wtfchger. is it? just thought t d say hello-ts that a Dr or a Cr? 
............................................................ Helen H., Congratsi Now that you·ve con~ quered SMC ...I hear San Diego has nice zoosll Good Luck' Faye H. 
TO THEjGUYS AT 716 N.D.AVE:MANY THANX FOR THE GREAT TIMES WITH All OF YOU CRAZY MEN. I'll MISS YOU MUCHL Y NEXT YEAA,BUT MANY VISITS ARE IN STORE. TRY TO BE GOOD'LOVE,PONY 
JULIE"JU-JU·BE''SCHEAEA-HAVE FUN NEXT YEAR WITHOUT YOUR BIG SIS! BE GOOD & WAITE!LUV,JG 
To the most wonderful frrends 1n tne world!!! Mar Alii Ann1e Penny Kelh Belh Karen Kay Christine Kat1e Jenni Thanks lor a greal2 years' You all madetl the best!! I w111 m1ss you!! Love L1sa 
P.S. See you Sen1or Year!!! 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY REV "PABLING' 
PANGILINAN!!! 

You're gotng to be the big 2·1 tomorrow. 
You're now legal for 
ANYTHING!!! 
Good luck on finals and remember 

St Joe's & St. Mary's1s warm lhis yeart!! 
Your bro. 
Joe 
Okay,folks·l'm gelltng worried.Since no one has a nde to offer me, I am looking lor people to split a car rental to Metro NY area.Call x1880 to help me get home!ETD:S/13 eve. 
AMK:Here·s your 2nd ad·"Thanks.for eve<ythtng. "Frtends,P. 
Mark S..Paul M.. Paul H.,Chuck C.. Mtke A.,& my other favorite Snrs: Congrats and best W1Shes!My affection IS With you al­ways.Paula. 
late Ntghl Wtfh T. T. TOOMS IS the only way to end a great day!! Thanks for the grub. laughs and caffetne. WE LOVE YOU, MARY & LISA 
To the wtld women of B.P.: Fift, Bndget, Kathi. Julie, Joan. Michelle. Ann. Jean. Karen, Kathleen and ltnda... Thanks for all the great ttmes. I'll miss you ··The Boxer King 
Congratulations Rob Bertino on your job wtth Owens Cor­nmg! See you next spring break in Dallas! love. Kath, lenore, Moe. Mosey, and MaryKay. P.S. Thanks for a great year We'll mJSS you! 
Thank you St. Jude!!'!! 
Need it bad? Ask St. Jude. 

TO ALL YOU SWEET WONDERFUl, OB· SERVER TYPES WHO WERE SO THOUGHTFUL IN All THE WAYS YOU DEVISED TO "OBSERVE" MY 21ST BIRTHDAY: You won't beeel1eve how much I ap­preciated it! (ha,ha) LOVE, TESS B. 
Attention Off·Campua SENIORS!If 

There will be a maea tonight at 7 p.m. 
at the Grotto lor •II aenlora living off 
cempus. Don't mf•s Ill F81hllt' HM­
burgh will bathe celebrant. 

Bookbag "loat'' after you took my book· bag from the south dining hall, with my 5 notebooks. I was mauled on a lest, and had lo re-do two problem sets and a paper The horror story will get worse if I have to take finals without them. Please, PLEASE, give me the notebooks back ...you can keep eve<ything else. Put the notebooks back where you found them or call Glenn at 272·1869...no "?" asked 
Puddins the tradition continues. It's been a simply awesome 5 months But the sum­mer.. ooh .. alii promised and more. I love you Forever,Lady Jez 
To the guy who sat three rows 1n front ol me, aga1nst the wall in Emil last semester: What if I'd forgotten my dtnner date last November? Somehow I think I'd sttll be wishing you a Happy Anniversary ...! Love You. Baby' ltsa P.S. Happy Btrthday. too!! 
JIM TABOR CORE COU~&E Player of the year: Mike Cardinale 

JESSIE,OO YOU KNOW "WHAT I LIKE ABOUT YOU?" ... YOUA FRIENDSHIP! JEROME 0 EO.E.O 
HEY SENIOR HOGS--Esp Sec JandAAs and 121 E. Navarre CONGRATULA­TIONS ON GRADUATION'!! I'm gotng to m1ss you next year even though I won't be here' Anyways, good luck' love,your CHEERLEADER 
BILLIAM···-Thanks for everythtng You re a great brother and fnend I'm go~ng to m1ss you for the next few years. Good luck--and remember BE CARE· FUL!!! Love, Carmen!! 
GAETCHEN.KATHY,LISA I'M GOING TO MISS YOU GUYS 1ST SEMESTER' HAVE A GREAT TIME IN ROME AND REMEMBER, WE HAVE RESERVA­TIONS IN AMSTERM! TAKE CARE, LOVE,BA 
TERESA (SNUGGLES) HUYCK WE JUST WANTED TO TELL YOU WE'RE GOING TO MISS YOU, AND SINCE NO ONE WOULD WANT TO COME BACK TO SOUTH BEND · WE'll HAVE TO MAKE IT OUT TO COLORADO' TAKE CARE, LOVE YOUR ROOMIES, JANINE &BA 
THE MORRISSEY LUNCHPAIL CLUB The hour approaches. Your theortes W111 soon be changed. Remember that the IUX­taposttion of red upon white produces .. 
see CLASSIFIEDS, page 12 


The Observer 
Monday, May6, 1985-page 11 
Notre D1ame finishes third in MLA 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 

After winning the Midwest Lacrosse Association championship last season, the Notre Dame lacrosse 
Tap and Grill 
32 oz. Sirloin for two ....... $15.95 
team hoped to go for two straight.

Prime Rib . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9.75 But it found that to be a much toug­her task than taking the first title as
12 oz. Lobster Tail .... Market Price 
the Irish were knocked off the MIA throne following a 9-7 (7-2 in the
Come have breakfast, lunch or dinner. 
MIA) season tha( ended with an easy
Cocktails and Sandwiches anytime! 
15-6 victory at Michigan State Satur­Watch the game on our 60 inch TV screen day. 

Mon.-Sat. 6am-11pm Sun. 8am-9pm 12797 St. Road 23 277-6812 
Women hope to advance to finals 
By MARY SIEGER 
Sports Writer 

Finals is a dirty word to everyone at Notre Dame. Everyone except the Notre Dame women's tennis team which hopes to advance to the final round of the NCAA Division II Na­tional Championship Tournament tommorow. 
After all the long months of frustration, hard work and dedica­tion, the Irish are determined to leave Bakersfield, Calif., Wednesday morning with nothing less than the national title. 
"We're excited about going and if we can get to the finals, we're guaranteed second pl~.ce," said Notre Dame head coach Sharon Petro. "We must play our best tennis to get the National Championship. I ask my players to give me their best and I know they will." 
Seeded second in the two-day 
Track 
continuedfrom page 16 

NO's other "man on record" ended Saturday's competition right on ground-level -Chris Matteo set a meet standard with his 14-foot, six­inch effort in the pole vault. 
Other record-breakers in the meet included Neil Reilly of 


Sports Briefs 
ND student football ticketapplications wilt'not be mailed this year, as they have been in the past. Applications and information will be distributed at registration in the fall. The ticket 
package will consist ofsix home games (Michigan State, Army, USC, Navy, Mississippi, LSU) and must be paid for at the time ofissue. The
"~owe~rg ~ll a~~ occosiotm." 
cost will be 1151 for Notre Dame students and $67.50for Saint Mary's students. Tickets for a spouse will be the same price as the student's
We can wire Flqwers anywhere 
and proofof marriage ils required. -The Observer 
Member: FTD, Telefloral, AFS Call 232-3354 
Referees fo;r Bookstore Basketball may pick up their paychecks beginning Thursday at the NVA Office. -The Obser­
ver

327 lincolnway
....... -._....,., 
~~~.~~~~~~~~~~ 
l)dredan,e 
~dub 
COMMENCEMENT CONCERT 

Saturday, May 18-9:00pm Stepan Center-Free Admissic>n 
Early Seating Advised 
tf'tC 
..
'\!;;; M
E 

There is a Place to Stay in Chicago! Checkout... The Parkway Eleanor Club, an affordable, interim residence for women located on Chicago's Near North Side. A perfect place to stay while job hunting, launching a career, or continuing educa­tion in the Chicago area. The Parkway Eleanor Club provides a furnished room, breakfast and dinner, an exercise room, 1V lounges, laundry facilities, a message desk and 24-hour security. Very conveniently located, the Parkway Eleanor Club is just minutes from Oak Street Beach, Rush Street, Old Town and North Michigan Avenue. For more information, please phone, write or visit: The Parkway Eleanor Club 1550 North Dearborn Parkway Chicago, Illinois 60610 And, check in! (312) 664-8245 
The Irish end the season in third place in the conference behind champion Denison and Ohio Wes­leyan, both of whom will probably compete in the Division Ill national championship, leaving Notre Dame the small satisfaction of winning the Great Lakes division of the MIA. 
The 1985 schedule was definitely Notre Dame's toughest since lacrosse became a varsity sport five years ago. 
However, the season was not a to-
tournament, Notre Dame stands a strong chance of upsetting two-time National Champions University of .Tennessee-Chattanooga. While Ten­nessee is playing in top form this season to compile an 18-1 spring record, the Irish go onto the courts this afternoon after completing their most successful season in their nine­year history, posting a 24-4 overall record. 
"I think we can win it this year," said Irish co-captain Lisa LaFratta. "I didn't feel we really wanted it last year like we do this year. We've beaten a lot of teams this year we've not beaten before and we're playing better." 
In first-round action today, the Irish face Abeline Christian College and will face the winners ofthe con· test between Moorhead State Uni­verstiy and Cal-Poly Pomona in the semi-t1nal round. Since Notre Dame defeated both Moorhead State and 
Aquinas, with a 153-foot, nine-inch effort in the discus throw, and Ketry Sloan, with a time of 53.34 seconds in the intermediate hurdles. 
For Notre Dame, other winning performances in the meet were turned in by John McNelis in the 400, Nick Sparks in the 800, and Autry in the long jump. 
"We were missing a lot of talent, but let's not take anything awayfrom Marquette," said Irish coach Joe tal disappointment as the team came within six goals of Loyola ( Md. ), one of the top teams in the nation, and several players had outstanding in· dividual performances. Senior at· tackman Bob Trocchi ended his 
three-year Irish career with 143 points (84 goals and 59 assists) to break the school career scoring record, while defenseman Justin Shay and goalie Rob Simpson finished their careers as four-year starters. 
Cal-Poly Pomona during the regular season, the Irish expect to meet arch-rival Tennessee in the finals. 
"We have the desire to win it and we may be able to catch Tennessee offguard since they won it last year," said LaFratta. "I want to go out win­ning because it would be a nice way ofleaving." 
Last year, the Irish finished third at the National Tournament after drop· ping a tough match to Tennessee, 6­3, in the semi-final round. With the score tied, 3-3, at the end of the singles competition, the Irish struggled to challenge Tennessee's claim to the National Championship during the doubles. 
Since this week's tournament is the farewell appearance for both Notre Dame and Tennessee in the NCAA Division II, claiming the Na­tional title is critical for both teams. Next year, both squads advance to the NCAA Division I. 
Piane. "We had some disappointing performances and Marquette ran very well. And they won the race that they needed to win to take the meet." 
In that race, Marquette's time of 
3:18.9 was less than a second better than Notre Dame's. The Warrior relay team consisted of Mark Carey, Tim Robinson, Phil Logan, and Kevin Jacopin. 
Marquette was led by Tracy Brown, a sprinter who nipped Irish freshman Tony Ragunas in the 100 and 200, and then anchored the 400­relay team to a victory. The War· riors' Keith Hanson won the steeplechase in a meet-record time of 8:59.38, and added a win in the 5000. 
The Warriors also got victories from James Orthman in the 10,000, Paul Nowakowski in the in the shot put, Steve Redmond in the javelin, Dave Kaluzny in the 1,500, and Pat W eas in the high hurdles. Nowakowski's toss of 51 feet, 3. 5 inches set a meet record for the shot put event. 
Notre Dame will now begin preparation for the IC4A Champion­ships, which will take place May 19­20 at Villanova 1Jniversity. 


The Observer Monday, May 6, 1985 -page 12 


Ends hopes for 2nd straight title 
Belles fall to Grace College, 9-0 
By KELLY PORTOLESE 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The hopes of obtaining a second state championship were dashed for six seniors on the Saint Mary's softball team over the weekend when the Belles dropped a 9-1 deci­sion to Grace College in the losers 
bracket  of  the  NAIA  District  21  
Tournament  on  Saturday,  in  In­ 
dianapolis.  

"We had a super season," said Head Coach Scott Beisel of the Belles' sparkling 23-9 season-ending slate. 
"We came out strong in the first game (against Anderson), and had a few injuries. 
"We just tried too hard (this weekend). We didn't swing the bat like we normally do. I felt sorry for the seniors who took state as fresh­men. I was hoping they could go out the same way they came in. We will really miss this group. I'm very proud of the whole team," con­cluded Beisel. 
The Belles opened play on Friday with an 18-S victory over Anderson College, but fell to a strong Franklin College team just a few hours later, 17-2. .Junior standout Cathy Logsdon 

suffered a twisted knee in the sixth inning against Anderson, but due to prior commitments of freshman pitcher Betty Mihalik, Logsdon pitched in all three games. 
Despite the weekend's two losses, Logsdon still finished with a career­best 14-3 record. 
Sophomore catcherJanine Adamo earned first-team All-District honors, while seniors Trish Nolan and Teresa McGinnis were named to the All-District Honorable Mention team. 
In the final game, against Grace, whom Saint Mary's split with earlier in the season, the Belles were only able to push one run across the entire game. In the bottom of the fourth inning Nolan stroked a double to deep left field, and ad­vanced to third on a single by Adamo. Senior Katy Boldt then laid down a perfect bunt to squeeze Nolan across the plate for the lone score. 
Grace tallied runs in five ofseven innings, capitalizing on five Saint Mary's errors. Grace, on the other hand, played perfect defense. 
Senior Barb Theiss finished the game with two singles in three at­bats. 
Grace, seeded third, went on to Jose to No. !-ranked Indiana University-Purdue University at In­dianapolis in the championship game. 

On Friday, Adamo and senior Elaine Suess swung big bats in the winning and losing causes against Franklin and Anderson Colleges, respectively. Suess connected on six of eight at-bats for five singles and a triple for the day, bringing home four runs against Anderson. Adamo rapped two singles and two doubles, also sending four runners home in the two-game effort. 
The second ranked Belles opened their tournament play at 3 p.m. on Friday against Anderson, the eighth seeded team. 
Boldt was credited with the save in the 18-5 win, while Logsdon, who fired a six-hitter and walked and struck out one before sustaining her injury, earned the victory.­
For graduating seniors McGinnis, Nolan, Suess, Theiss, Mary Lynn Mul­cahy and Tracey Bowman, the goal ofclaiming a repeat state crown was not realized, but after compiling an outstanding 48-14 record the past two seasons, the class of '85, along with its supporting cast, has left its mark in softball circles around the state and has much to be proud of. 
Karen Trappen 
As you FLY AWAY (OH, 
ORV) to meet the RAZOR BLADE OF LIFE, remember that your time at N.D. was 
not just another TRIVIAL PURSUIT!I 
CONGRATS!!! love, Paula 
Classifieds 
continuedfrom page /0 
CAMILLE COOPER2 UMOC An ugly 
man  but a beautiful woman.  EC­ 
CFUMOCC  
Hey McNalls.  

It'a been a great year, you were a great roommate. I've only got one th1ng to say: We've got to get • bigger roomI 
HAPPY EARLY B-DAY,BETH MURPHY'BEWARE OF MAY 9,BETTY· YOU REMEMBER LAST YEAR,OONT YA?HAVE A BALL,HONILOVE VA, JOAN 
Kevm, Mary Ellen & V>ewpomt staff · Thank you' -Murph 
To all the eporte aUIII ol the peat two y..... 
Th•nka lor your eflorte and good luck In the future with whaUiver you try. 
MikeS. 
TO: 
CATHY 
SUE 
KATHY 
LU 
AMY 
ANNE 
HOPPER AND FREINDS 
FR. STEVE 
CARROLL HALL 
3-NMC 
THANX FOR A GREAT YEAR. IT WAS 
A LEARNING EXPERIENCE(MAY 1?) 
HOPE ALL OF YOU HAVE A GREAT 
SUMMER. TAKE CARE! 
LOVE, 
LISA 
Goodbye Tess. B>ll. the "other" M.E., Madman, Jefl. Ph1l, Margaret, Mike, Dave, MaryS.. Joe and alllhe other mem­bers ol the whatever n1ght dmner club. See ya next year! 
me 
can life in an elevator be as much fun as a bowling alley? 
Sue, make sure the Cute Wednesday Sm1le doesn't d1sappear over the sum­mer 
Who else? 
21st B·Day 

CASS HOT WHEN USED STILL ITS YOUR BIR.THDAY LOVE, US 
Found ONE PINEAPPLE 
IN OUR ROOM, 232 Walsh If it is yours or if you know where a came from, please call 1822. We want to lhank you for the gift. 
GO I=Dili'IIIRD 
The Chevrolet­Join the team Pontiac-Canada that is leading
Group is going the way into forward into the the future. 21st Century, It For informa­needs bold new tion about career ideas, new opportunities
technology, new at C-P-C, see designs and your placementinnovations. office career 
Go forward. counselor. 
iJOHN MARSHALL ! 
! LAW SCHOOL ::'Wi~i! ! 
• 1393 Peachtree .'it., N.E. Atl9nta, GA 30309 '··-~· • 
~ APPLICATIONS TAKEN NOW , flif:···(,~~February, June, September Admissions VI ; • Day or Evening CIasses •.•
. .
....,,...... 

; John Marshall Law School admits without regard ; ; to national or ethnic origin : 
: APPROVED FOR VETERANS :! Graduation from John Marshall meets the : • requirements for admission to the Bar • : Examination in Georgia and Indiana ONLY ; 
~ (404) 872-3593 : 
Chevrolet·PontJac-canada Group-An eQual opporturiity empJnyer 
----~----~--~~----~­
-------------~ ~ --~­
The Observer Monday, May 6, 1985 -page 13 
Youth spell bright future for Notre Dame sports 
The 1984-85 Notre Dame athletic season, which ends sometime this month, has been the most interesting year of the past four for Irish sports. There were, as usual, a number of disappointments, but there were also some nice surprises. 
Depending on your frame of reference, you can argue that it was a good or bad year. If you were hoping for a major bowl bid for the football team, or a Division I national championship, this year was a disappointment.. But, if you were looking for some new faces or new teams to show hope for the future, then 1984­85 was Notre Dame's best of recent years. 
It would be very easy for a senior like myself tO be negative 
about not just this year, but the past three as well. After all, most 
seniors feel pretty disappointed about the lack of success of 
Notre Dame teams, especially the football and basketball teams, 
during their time here. But the 1984-85 season showed too 
many promisingsigns for the future to be considered a bad year. 
In fact, this past year may turn out to be a very important one 
for Notre Dame athletics, because it may have been the year 
that saw the Irish athletic program and fans begin to climb from 
the hole into which they had sunk for the past few years. 
There is probably no better sign for the future than the en­
thusiasm of the freshmen and sophomores in the face of the 
cynical attitude that has infected most of the juniors and 
seniors. Nothing demonstrated this more than the Penn State 
football game where the freshmen and sophomores poured out on the field -in a very orderly fashion -after the game while the juniors and seniors stayed up in the stands and watched. 
even though the tennis team will be moving up to Division I next year.
Mike 

All in all, it looks like some bright years are ahead for Notre Dame sports. This, of course, is no consolation for those of us
Sullivan 

who won't be around here to enjoy the success in person, but I wouldn't wish the past four years of disappointments on 
Sports Writer 

anybody. So it's nice to know that things will be looking up for 
1111!1 1111!1...----lllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiil-
many ofthe students here. 
This wasn't the only time that the younger classes seemed to show the life that the upperclassmen once had but have lost through three poor years. Even in basketball, where in the past seniors and juniors had made up most of the crowd, the fresh­men and sophomores bought a large portion ofthe tickets. With David Rivers coming back, next year's ticket sales should be huge. 
Everywhere you look, things are looking up for the future well-being of Notre Dame athletics. The men's basketball program appears to be in good hands with people like Rivers and Donald Royal, while the women's program should also do well behind this year's group offreshmen and next fall's incom­ing class. 
The women's basketball program isn't the only relatively new program that should enjoy success in 1the next few years, either. The volleyball and wrestling programs have new coaches and a new aim of competing with the nation's best teams, while the cross-country team has already reacho~d that point. The fencing and women's tennis teams, both ofwhich regularly are fighting for the national championship, should also continue doing well, 
What the underclassmen need to remember is to keep their enthusiasm no matter what happens on tbe field. Losing is rarely fun, but it is only as bad as you make it. People around here seem to realize now that a football or basketball game is nothing more than that, not a reason for the campus to go into mourning. Just remember that home football weekends and Notre Dame-UCLA basketball games are things you cannot enjoy entirely once you've graduated, so it makes no sense to make them a life-or­death event. 
A former sports editor once had a farewell message that was, "Take your sports seriously." If I had to leave one, it would be, "Enjoy your sports." Sports, whether you're watching or par­ticipating, are important in that they are an ideal non-violent (well, fairly non-violent) form of tension release. However, they are nothing more. Football, basketballs, hockey pucks, whatever-they were invented with enjoyment in mind. Whet­her a person is a good athlete or goes to a school with a great football team is not enough reason to make sports anything less than enjoyable. 
Rivers also pointed to the 53-52 When Rivers dribbled the ball off his entered the program into tangible Irish victory over UCLA in Pauley foot, however, Notre Dame ended gains for head coach Mary DiStanis­
Rivers Keys
Pavilion and the Notre Dame stu­up on the short end ofa 60-58 score. lao's squ-ad. continuedfrom page 16 dent body's reaction to that win as "You take things like that in "I think in the past two years I was
continuedfrom page 16 
where we were going to be playing another high point in his season. stride," Rivers says. "If I'm going to inconsistent," says Keys. "Some was the biggest highlight of the The lowest point in the young be the best, I have to t:ake the bad What the former Indiana Miss Bas­games I'd play well and some games season," he says, "because I know player's career came at the end of with the good because that's a part ketball did was to lead the Irish in I wouldn't. But we talked about my there was a lot ofdoubt ofus making the season, he says. In the final of being the best." points, shooting 52 percentfrom the role on the team, and I decided it it as far as we did. That was one ofmy seconds of Notre Dame's second Rivers h;td more than a few oppor­field and 70 percent from the free­was only a matter of working hard. I goals: to• come in here and lead tournament game, Rivers had the tunities to mature as a player last throw line, as well as dishing off 67 had better conditioning over the Notre Dame to the NCAA, if not all ball and the Irish had a chance to season, and he says he has gained a assists. Keys currently has 1,002 summer and that really helped my the way." break a tie game for the victory. lot ofexperience. points over her career, placing her at overall game." 
No. 4 on the all-time Irish scoring In fact, there were very few disap­chart. pointents for Keys this year. She can 
It was on the defensive end of the think of only one -the Irish barely court, however, where Keys really missed a trip to the NCAA tourna­improved to an MVP level. She ment. That, and not any further per­
Attention Sophom.ores 
responded well to a move to the sonal gains, is what Keys is hoping guard position this season, as she for next season. recorded 37 steals and 43 blocked For now, though, Keys seems con­shots. Her solid play on defense tent just to accept her 1985 Edward helped the Irish finish among the top W. "Moose" Krause Award and fol­
Place your ring order before you leave 
20 teams in the NCAA in scoring low 1984 graduate and tennis player defense. Pam Fischette as claimants to the an­
Finally, Keys proved to observers nual award. t~t she could, indeed, translate all Next year, it may be herself that of that potential with which she had she follows in accepting the award. 
for SUMMER VACATION. This will 
assure you of having it when you 
return to school in the fall. 
HOURS: 1:00 P.M. to 4:30P.M. Monday-Friday 
IN THE OFFICE ON THE FIRST FLOOR HAMMES NOTRE-DAME BOOKSTORE 

NEW SCHEDULE 
EFFECTIVE APRIL 28, 198§ 
Travel United Umo to 6 from Chicago's O'Hare 
IHVE  lEIVE  ARRIVE  IRRIVE  
NOTRE  MICHlINI  MICHIANI  NOIRE  
OIME  RE&IONil  RESIONIL  OIME  
BUS  IIRPORI  lARlVE  lEIVE  IIRPORT  IUS  
SHillER  SOUTH SINO  0 HIRE  0 HIRE  SOUTH BEND  SHElTER  
3 ZO 1.m.  3·40 1.m.  6 00 1111  8.30 1.111.  10·50 1m  II 05 I m  
5 20 I 1ft  5:40 1m  1.00 ••  10·30 1m  11'5D p.m  I 01 p m  
7 201m  7·40 1.m  10·00 1.m  1230 p.m  2 50 p m  305 p m  
9·20 1.m  g-40 1.m  IHOp.m  2 30 pm  4 SO pm  5OS p m  
II 20 I m  1140 1.m  2·00 p.m  4 30 p m  6 50 pm  105 p m  
L20 p.m  14D pm  400 p m  8 30 p m  110 pm  9 05 p m  
3 2D p m  3.40 p.m  6DD pm  130 p m  1050 p m  II Dl p.m  
5.20 pm 720 p.m  5 40 p.m 1:4D p.m  8.0D pm ID:OD p.M  10 3D p m 1230 om.  1Z.50 1m 2:50 1m  105 1m 3 D5 •.r  

All ARRIVALS AND DEPARTURES ON LOCAL TIME. CALL FOR COMPLETE LIST OF PICKUP POINTS & TIMES. 

FOR RESERVATIONS (219) 674-6993 OR CALL YOUR TRAVEL AGENT 
TRINKETS and TREASURES SALE 
Saturday, May 11,1985 
9:00am-2:00pm 
Notre Dame's Stepan Center 
Corner of Douglas & Juniper 
Transpo Bus Service Available 
Cash, VISA or MasterCard accepted 
Sponsored by Service Guild Corp. Proceeds Benefit the Handicap ofSt.Jos h County 

RECORDS AND TAPES 
OPEN TUESDAY FOR BUSINESS ''Valk on Over... ...There is Finally a Real Record Store in South Bend 
!1-0FF--f~-1-0FF 
i$1 Off Coupon 
1 Bring this coupon and receiveI $1 off any LP or Tape not already on sale _.1 
...------~---------------------~-­
The Obsener Monday, May 6, 1985 -page 14 
Irish thrash Dlinois-Chicago, 9-0, to finish 17-12 
By CHUCK FREEBY 
Spurts writer 
Chicago may be the "city of big shoulders", and it may be the "hog butcher of the world", but it cer­tainly will not be deemed as a mecca of colle~ate tennis in the ncar fucure. The Notre Dame men's ten­nis team quickly proved that fact Saturday morning at the Courtney Tennis Center, extinguishing the 
Nester 
continued/rom page 16 
been lacking in the present ad­ministration's handling of athletics on a whole." 
And professional? I know of no one who equates professionalism in athletics with telling coaches that they might ao; well not try to field competitive teams. Yet, according to Trees, Nester told the College's coaches during their first meeting with her this year that "they might as well forget about having a natiooal t·hampion, in terms of a team, and that they could forget about com­peting on a national level since Saint Mary's wa.' not that kind of school. The College wao; not going to push for, nor could it obtain '!lthletes of that caliber, so (the coaches) should not even come in and daim that they were going to do really well athleti­cally." 
'Ibis year the fencing team was not allowed to compete in its na­tional tournament · the first time in Saint Mary's history that this hao; hap­pened to any athletic team. In addi­tion, tht· swim team was denied funding for its Christmas training trip. It seems quite contradictory that an administration which claims to be building an athleti<: program would dt·nr a valuable experience such a.o; nationals to its athletes, or that the same administration would make its athlt-tes pay their own way for a training trip. Yet Saint Mary's is guilty on both counts. 
In its explanation to the fencing team. the administration stated that it could not justify the expense be­cause the team probably would not fare too well. In addition, the team was told that its proposal to com­pete had been submitted too late. Because there is a special budget set Flames of Illinois-Chicago, 9-0, in the season finale. 

The visitors from the Windy City only brought five players, and as it turned out they may as well have stayed home and saved their change for another trip on the toll road. This may not have been the strongest ten­nis team Irish coach Tom Fallon has ever had, but it was still composed of individuals who could hold a tennis racket, which seemed to be all that 
aside for all national competition, it seems strange that the expenses could not be justified, especially for a team of only five members. The swim team was denied funding for tht· simple reason that the depart­ment considered the trip unneces­sary and would not cover its costs ­not so much a~ a food allowance. 
Ifthese expenses could not be jus­tified, tqen how can Nester, who also coaches tennis, justify the con­stant string of seemingly unneces­sary overnight trips on which she takes the team. Her team should be able to wait until the morning of the match to leave, like all other Saint Mary's teams do the majority of the time. · 
Former basketball coach Mike Rouse wa~ not granted drivers for his away trips, being told that it had never been included in the budget, this year nor in pa~t years. In resign­ing, one of the three rea~ons Rouse cited was the fact that he had had drivers in the past, whether they had actually been in the budget or not. Since then, Nester has justified hiring drivers for most away trips, but if drivers arc not in the budget, where is the money coming from to pay for them? 
Professionalism also comes into question considering reports of stu­dent workers anq,_athlctcs who have complained about Nester's physical contact with them. "On more than one occasion. students have ap­proached me complaining about (Nester) 'grabbing' them," stated Hyrne. What type of professional image can one hope to maintain with actions such a~ these? 'Jbcre is no place in any administration for this type of behavior. 
If Nester really wants to con­tribute to the Saint Mary's athletic program, she should either act with professionalism in the future, or else offer her resignation. 
wa~ w.:ccssary to knock off Illinois­Chicago. Every match was decided in straight sets, as the Irish closed their spring with a record of 17-12. 
Although disappointed by failing to net his seventh consecutive 20­win season, Fallon was still pleased with the play of his young Irish squad overall. '"I think our biggest problem was our doubles play," commented Fallon. "Our doubles combinations just never gelled, and we lost a lot of S-4 matches because ofthat. We did well though, and with a year of experience, we'll have a good bunch of players next year to mix with a good crop ofrecruits." 

It will be hard to outdo this year's freshmen, as Fallon was pleasantly surprised with the play of first-year performers Dan Walsh and Paul Daggs. Daggs got a chance to sit back and watch on Saturday, winning his match at sixth singles by forfeit to 
finish at 21-11 for the spring. Walsh 
didn't take long to join Daggs in the 
bleachers, defeating Ivan Salazar, 6­
0, 6-0 to also finish at 21-I I at No. 3 
singles. 
"The biggest surprise was Walsh at number-three," notes Fallon. "Without much notoriety, Dan came in and had a real good year for us, as did Paul Daggs. I think both of those players have a real bright future in our program." 
While Fallon thinks ahead, he also had to look back on the past this week, as seniors Mike Gibbons and Dave Obert closed out their careers in style. Gibbons, who has been one of the most consistent winners in Irish tennis history, whipped John Mistro, 6-1, 6-2, to close his senior campaign at 23-7. Obert, who played his first season for the Irish this year, had little trouble blazing by Tony Hazel, 6-1, 6-3. 
Fallon had nothing but praise for Gibbons. "He has played well ever since he first stepped on the court here. I'm not looking forward 'to having to replace him next year." 
The departure of Gibbons and Obert will make joe Nelligan the senior member of the '8S-'86 Irish netters. Nelligan, who has struggled at the top singles spot this year thanks partly to an ankle problem, finished on an upbeat note by sailing past Darren Cohen, 6-4, 6-1. on Saturday. 
''I'm looking forward, to next season," states Fallon. "We have four of our top six players coming back and some very good freshmen who should contribute. Hopefully, we'll be able to get back in the 20-win category again." 


Notre Dame Avenue Apartments 
NOWBENTING FOR FALL 
Completely furnished, balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES (good deals for Summer Sealon) 
Otlice at 820 ND Ave 234-664 7 open Mon-Fri 3-6pm 256-5716 
Sat ll-3pm 

The Grim Visage 
Requiem aeternam Dona ei Domine Et lux perpetua luceat ei 


------~-------------------~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~..~ 
~c:tcJlCl~----------------------------------M-o-nd_a_y,_M_a_y_6,_19_8_s__
p_ag_e_l5 


Zeto 
"One more thing, young man. You get my daughter home before sunrise-1 don't want you coming back here with a pile of dried bones." 


ACROSS 1 Pith helmet 5 Neckwear 
1 0 Invitation 
letters 14 Styptic 15 Of musical 
quality 16 Director Kazan 17 Court defen· 
dant: abbr. 18 Comedic actor 20 Red-faced 22 Le -(Fr. 
airport) 23 Forehead 24 Song opening 25 Inclined 
channel 27 Mine shaft 28 Plotting group 32 Darn it! 33 Gained 34 Fully grown 35 Buchwald 36 Hispaniola 
native 38 Aunt: Sp. 39 Purloined 41 Sgt. 42 Adherents: 6 Certain 
suff. student 43 Madrid man 7 Also 44 Receive 8 Woodjoint 
socially 9 Common 45 Unrhymed mineral writing 10 Hideaway 46 Franck or 11 Walk heavily 
· Romero 12 Ivy, e.g. 48 Shortly 13 Gone by 49 Eastern 19 Literary 52 Jacks or better Italian 55·Detain 21 Larry,-, and 57 Revise copy Curly 58 CQitic 24 Wine merchant 59 Lamp dweller 25 Unrefined 60 Boorish 26 Author Brat 61 Beahead 27 Hawaiian staple 62 Tolerated 29 Kept silent 63 Pour forth 30 Zodiac's Ram 
31 Rentout 

DOWN 33 Pallid 1 GWTW setting 34 Noted name 2 Bullring cheers in China 3 Automated 36 Attached ­4 Discloses (part of) 5 Spread 37 Jewelry 
Friday's Solution 

40 Situated 49 Genesis name 42 Laundry 50 Certain 
workers 51 "-small 44 Scent container world" 45 Detective 52 Medley 
story creator 53 Make fun of 47 What kettle does 54 Prepare prunes 48 Go too fast 56 Yoko-
The Far Side 

Campus . ­
•7 p.m. -Senior Off-Campus Celebrant: Fr. Hesburgh, The Grotto. 
TV Tonight 
6:00p.m. 6:30p.m. 7:00p.m. 8:00p.m. 

16 NewsCenter 16 8:30p.m. 22 22 Eyewimess News 9:00p.m. 28 Newswatch 28 !O:OOp.m. 16 M *A *S *H 22 Three's Company 28 Wheel of Fornme !0:30p.m. 16 TV Bloopers & Practical Jokes 22 Scarecrow & Mrs. King 28 Hardcastle & McCormick ll:OOp.m. 16 20th Annual Academy of Country 11:30p.m. 
Music Awards 12:30a.m. 22 Kate & Allie l:OOa.m. 28 Movie · Lace(Pt. II of2) 
THE FAR SIDE By GARY LARSOI'J 
• lot "-things younall." 

Gary Larson 
Mass, 
22 Newhan 
22 Cagney & Lacey 
16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewimess News 28 Newswatch 28 16 Tonight ~ow 22 Simon & Simon/McMillan 28 ABC News Nightline 28 Love Connection 16 Late Night Wilh David Letterman 16 All In The Family 22 Nightwatch 
·'• 


call Donna at 239 • 1157for a well paid position 
______________________________, 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
t

Hey all you Domers!ll tGood Luck on Finals t 
Have a Great SuD101er t t 
Love, t 
THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD t 
Lee Broussard Orlando Griego Ron Mileti t 
Rob Hoover Janet Grojean Mike Ran t 
Jack Gallagher Anne DuCharme Steven Morita ' 
' 

._-~~~~e____Q21}lL<l~aJ.lls____M~e~~~~L j 
Monday, May 6, 1985 -page 16

S~orts 
r 
•' 
Rivers, Keys recognized as Athletes of the Year 
Jersey City native's talented ball-handling brought excitement to Notre Dame courts 
By PHIL WOLF "I think the impact I made on the and-gun show that otten brought Assistant ,\ports Editor team came from the guys, the fel­ACC (and other) crowds to their lows on the team," Rivers says. ket. In addition, Rivers' talent at 
Freshman David Rivers, the excit­"They kind of guided me along the penetrating the defense allowed him ing point guard for the Irish men's way, so I think a lot of the credit to create many scoring oppor­basketball team. has been named should point in their direction." tunities for himself and his Notre Dame's male Athlete of the Rivers' individual performance teammates, and he dished off 127 as­Year by the sports department of speaks for itself, however. The 6-0, sists during the season. The Observer. 170-pounder from Jersey City, N.J., "llle combination of the young 
The award, officially named the led all scorers for the Irish in the point guard and an experienced Edward "Moose" Krause Award, is season with a I'5.8 points-per-game front line added up to Notre Dame's given each year to one male and one average. It really was his ballhan­first NCAA Tournament bid in three female athlete whom the Observer dling that made the most difference years, fulfilling one of Rivers' sports staff sees a.' having made the for the Irish. though. preseason goals. most significant impact on his or her The quick point guard's ability to "Just being able to sit down with respective team. l.a.'t year's run the fa.~t break changed the slow, the rest of the guys and find out recipient was basketball player Tom calculated offense of recent Notre Sluby. Dame basketball teams into a run-see RIVERS, page 13 
Keys guides teammates to NSC title 
By MARTY BURNS 
.\ports lf'rlter 
Junior guard Trena Keys of the 

Notre Dame women's basketball Thr Ohst"rvt'r/Pctc-l.at.:hrs team. whose consistent and often Dar,id Rir,ers, ab(Jlle, and Trena Keys, left, of the Notre Dame spccta1.:ular play led the Irish to their men's and women's basketball teams were named Male and most successful season in history, FemaleAthletes ofthe Year yesterday by the0bsen'£'f' sports depart­has bt.·en named the outstanding ment. Phil WolfandMarty Burns have the stories ab(Jlle andatleft. 
ft-male athlete of 19HS by the sports department ofThe Observer. The award brings to a dose a remarkable season for the Marion, 

Marquette edges Irish 
Ind.. native and it comes on the heels of her being named the Most Valuable Player for 19HS by the 

in MCC championship
North Star Conft·rence. "llle 6-1 Keys accomplished the feat by posting a By LARRY BURKE ( 2'5 ). and DePaul ( 23) also com­17.2 points-per-game average and a 

Assistant Sports Editor peted.'5.6 rt:bounds-pcr-game mark while 'lbc Irish were hamepcred by the leading her Notre Dame team to a The Notre Dame track team lost absence of seven of their top com­1.3-1 rt·cord ( 20-H overall) and its out to the Warriors of Marquette petitors, who were participating in first NSC championship. 
University by the narrowest of mar­the National Invitational meet in 
gins in Saturday's Midwest Catholic Bloomington, Ill. Despite this, Notre 
"I'm really honored to be Championships. Holding a slim two­Dame athletes establbhed two new selected," says Keys. "I decided over point lead over the Irish heading meet standards. the off-season that I had to do some­into the final event of the meet, the Gary LeKander of Notre Dame thing more for the team this year, 1600-meter relay, the Warriors broke a meet record in the triple­and I just worked really hard toward pulled out a clutch victory to take jump with an eft'ort of 47-0. The that goal. I have to give a lot ofcredit the title in the fourth annual MCC's, Irish, in fact, had the top three finis­to my teammates, though. Without on Notre Dame's Monogram Track. hers in that event, as Joel Autry and their help, I wouldn't have been able Marquette finished with 1OH Lloyd Constable finished second and to do what I did." points for the meet, while Notre third, respectively. 
Dame wound up with 104. Illinois­
see KEYS, page 13 Benedictine ( 28 points), Aquinas see TRACK, page 11 


Professionalism lacking in Saint Mary's athletics 
Professionalism. This is a quality with which the Saint 
stepping stone so that she can soon move up among the Mary's athletic department, more specifically its director of ranks ofJackowski. In an interview last fall, Nester said she athletics and recreation, Jo-Ann Nester, is not acquainted. Mark B. wanted "to be the dean ofa small liberal arts college." Based Unfortunately, it is the innocent -the coaches, the athletes on the way she is presently doing her job, one has to ques­and the whole Saint Mary's community -who suffer most Johnson tion her desire to run an athletic department. from this lack of professionalism; therefore, it must be Since her arrival last fall, Nester has tried to control every stopped. Sports Writer aspect of athletics at Saint Mary's -from being "the only 
Last year, former Belles' swim coach Scott Trees brought voice of the athletic department," as she states her position, blatant National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics of whom are male -who have either been tired or have to stripping her assistant, Dillon, ofall his duties. What is the recruiting violations to the attention of Sister Karol Jack­resigned amid controversy and on less than friendly terms purpose of having an assistant if the director will not allow owski, dean of student affairs, and College President John with the athletic administration in the last year. him to do anything independent of her train of thought, to Duggan. Trees met with Jackowski, per Duggan's request, Last week at the time ofhis resignation, Flynn said he was do anything but sit around with a useless title? and after promising him she would take the necessary dis­"very, very disappointed at the way the administration is ciplinary action, none was taken. running things," and cited !this as one of the major reasons Senior Intramural Coordinator and Athletic Council mem­
'lbe violation in question is the use ofCollege funds to pay for his resignation. ber Kerry Klein commented, "(Dillon) could have done so for the hotel accommodations of the parents ofprospective Junior swim team member Mary Fran Gisch commented much more for the athletic program-ifonly he had not been students. This is not exactly common practice at Saint that "... qualified coaches are not returning because ofwhat stripped of all responsibilities and stifled by what I consider Mary's. Yet, the athletic department picked up the tab at the seems to be a power play going on in the athletic administra­to be be an obvious case ofdiscrimination." Roseland Holiday Inn for the parents of two basketball tion, and the athletes are suffering for it." Klein is not alone in her feelings, as she is not the first to recruits. With this information, it was inexcusable for the This is not the type ofbehavior one expects from a college voice her dissatisfaction with Nester's administration. administration not to reprimand those directly responsible. ofSaint Mary's' touted calibre, but for fear ofretaliation from Former Athletic Council President and senior swim team 
In the last two weeks, both Assistant Director of Athletics the administration, athlete and coach alike are reluctant to captain Ellen Byrne said, "(Dillon) was honest and and Recreation Tim Dillon and swimming coach Dan Flynn do much about the present situation. straightforward in his efforts -something which I think has joined the ranks ofthe unemployed. These two are the latest As for !'\ester, here is an example of someone wanting so in a growing list ofSaint Mary's employees -peculiarly, most badly to look good in a position which she is using only as a see NESTER, page 14 

