Radio stations -pages 7 ,8,9 

VOL XIX, NO. 109 the independem ~!udenl new~papcr ~cf\ ing noln dame and ~ainl mary'o, THURSDAY, MARCH 7,1985 

Violin virtuosity 
Guest violinist Richard Luby performs a selec­tion at his recital last night. The concert, which was 
Election Tally  
Class of 1988 ~ Steve Georgi *28 Ted Smith *28 Thomas Tracy 19 Timothy Malone 9 Lisa Young 9 Steve Lowney 3 Pat McGrath 3 *Run-Off Candidates in today's election  
Correction: In yesterday's issue, the vote percentages for the Class of 1988 were incor­rect. The correct election tally is listed above.  

. 

Saint Mary's cancels Little Sisters Weekend 
By DIANE SCHROEDER 

News Staff 
The Little Sisters Weekend at Saint 
Mary's, which was scheduled for the 
weekend of April I 2 to 14, was can­
celled because of lack of student in­
terest. 
A survey was sent out to students 
upon returning from Christmas 
break to determine the level ofinter­
est. The survey asked who was inter­
ested in having the weekend, the 
ages of the sisters, and suggestions 
for activities. 

Response was minimal, according to ·Co-chairwoman Monica Mates. "Most people took the letter and sur­vey as a request for help for the weekend, not for feedback as was in­tended," said Mates. 
Although interest in a little sisters weekend has always been low in the past, the event has never before been cancelled, said Director ofStu­dent Activities Mary Anne 
O'Donnell. O'Donnell noted that student support is the key to the suc­cess of any activity. "If the students really wanted it, the program would work out," she said. 
Not all Saint Mary's students were 
indifferent to the proposed 
weekend, however. Many 
welcomed the chance to have their 
little sisters come to visit them a.t 
school. Senior Tracey Bowman said, 
"I'm very disappointed. My sister has 
wanted to come up for a long time 
and this was the perfect opportu­
nity." Bowman, along with other stu­
dents, plans to invite her sister up 
regardless of the cancellation. 
O'Donnell added that the little 
sisters weekend will be attempted 
again in the fall of 1985. 


Juniors given chance to study, live in Egypt through new program 
By MICHAEL CHMIEL consist of both American and Egyp­StaffReporter tian students. Because the school is already es­
The Notre Dame Foreign Study tablished, there will be no need for a Program has announced plans for a _Notre Dame faculty adviser to ac­year-long program of studies to be company the groups. "We want stu­held in Cairo, Egypt, beginning next dents to do it on their own," said 
fall. Burrell. The program, which has been 
Notre Dame will facilitate stu­
promoted by Father David Burrell of 
dents in the program, however, by
the philosophy and theology depart­
offering a course in Arabic. The 
ments along with Father Patrick Gaf­
course, to begin next semester, will
fney of the anthropology 
aim at aiding students in their adjust­
department, is being held in con­
ment to the new life style in order to
junction with the American Univer­
broaden his or her experiences in
sity ofCairo (AUC). 
Egypt. According to a release from theAccording to Art Grubert, 
department, "Notre Dame has long
assistant to the director of the 
been desiring programs in parts of
Foreign Study Program, the program 
the world other than Western
is being offered because "that area of 
Europe. There is no doubt that
the world is one that we know little 
adapting to life in the Middle East
about." poses a greater challenge than
Strong support from interested 
European culture, yet for those stu­
students in two informational 
dents in business, engineering, and
meetings boosted the efforts of Bur­
arts and letters who want to move
rell and Gaffney and prompted the out and into the Arab world, this
University to sponsor such a pro­
year provides a unique opportu­
gram on an experimental basis for 
nity."
two years with the AmericanUniver­
The program also is unique be­
sity. Many universities including 
cause, according to Grubert, it is in
Georgetown and those in the Uni­
an area of the world which can be
versity of California system cur­
considered a "crossroads" among
rently utilize the AUC connection 
three different continents -Africa,
with programs of their own. 
Europe, and Asia. "A number of us have been con­cerned to have an overseas program Application to the program will in those parts ofthe world that are so include discussions with intimately linked to our current sit­departmental advisers and Burrell uation, and the Middle East is that," along with a formal two-page appli­said Burrell, who spent the last two cation to the program itself. Accor­summers in Egypt and realized the ding to Burrell, · the basic importance ofsuch a program. requirement is that the student will "have to be adventurous." Students in the program will be For all interested students, a third able to vary their studies in many and final informational meeting re­areas including humanities, social garding next year's program in sciences, business, and engineering. Egypt will be held at 7:30 p.m. in Courses in Cairo will be taught in Satellite Room 242, O'Shaughnessy English and student enrollment will Hall. 

Weak showing in rankings causes look at graduate school 
By CINDY RAUCKHORST 
StaffReporter 
A relatively weak showing in a 
recent national assessment of 
doctoral programs has caused 
Notre Dame to step back and ex­
amine the direction its graduate school program is taking. 
The national study, conducted by the Conference Board ofAsso­ciated Research Councils ( CBARC), ranked only one Notre Dame graduate doctoral pro­gram, chemical engineering, in the top 25 percent, six programs in the top 50 percent, and five programs in the top 75 percent. 
The ratings were based on the evaluation of over 6,000 Ameri­can University scholars who mea­sured the quality of sr ific departments in categories 'such as faculty quality, faculty effec­tiveness, and improvement ofde­partments over a period of five years. 
Robert Gordon, vice president for advanced studies and chair­man of the Graduate Council, feels strongly that, the results of the survey are extremely deceiv­ing, and "must be taken with a large grain ofsalt." 
"It's very hard to assess quality and scholarship. You can't com­pare departments that way," he said. 
"The survey is a popularity contest, based oo the scholarly quality of the program faculty as viewed by x number of profes­sors, who really don't know anything about the program and are given very little information, but they have the impression in their mind that a certain school is number one in a program and therefore, it must be number one in others, too," he said. 

The survey completely ne­glected certain programs, such as theology, in which Notre Dame is very strong, Gordon said. These programs are not offered by enough national universities to be included in the survey, he said. 
The results of the survey have "The intellectual prestige of strong university, or even a good prompted criticism from Catho­the Catholic universities is still university," he said. lic priest and novelist Andrew very low," he said. Gordon responded that Greeley. In an article from the "Notre Dame is far and away Greeley's comparison of Notre National Catholic Reporter titled the most highly rated ofthe Cath­Dame's graduate program to "Why Catholic Higher Education olic universities. Quite simply, those in the survey is "like trying is Lower," Greeley commented even the best Catholic university to compare apples and oranges." on the situation of the graduate is not rated on the average-by aca­"Greeley's problem is that he doctoral programs at Catholic demic colleagues as a distin­universities across the nation. guished university, or even a see DOCTORAL, page 3 
ND tries to even undergrad, grad growth 
By CINDY RAUCKHORST 
StaffReporter 
Recent studies indicate that Notre Dame's traditionally strong focus on the undergraduate may be limiting the growth of the Graduate School, but that plans are currently in effect to balance growth on both levels. 
According  to  the  Priorities and  
Commitments  for  Excellence  
(PACE) Report,  a  important effort  

will be made throughout the 1980s to improve the status ofNotre Dame graduate and doctoral programs. 
"The next campaign for Notre Dame is being formulated now. A major-element ot that will be fun-our thrust to the undergraduate. 
ding for faculty development and for That's a difficult thing to do." fellowships and scholarships of the Powell said that changes in the graduate programs," said James past 20 years have been geared to Powell, director of graduate admis-improving quality on both the un­sions. dergraduate and graduate levels, but 
"That's an indication, I think, that that the undergraduate progress has 
the  University  is  now  going  to  received more attention, because of  
develop itself on the graduate and  its traditional prominence at Notre  
professional level  as  vigorously  as  Dame.  
they have developed themselves on  Both Gordon and Powell believe  
the undergraduate level," he said.  that the goal of improving quality at  

Robert Gordon, vice president for the graduate level is not achieved in advanced studies and chairman of a finite period of time, but rather, is the Graduate Council, said "We're trying to develop graduate work here without sacrificing too much of see GRAD, page 3 

.r-----------------------n~~~~~.--------------------------------­
The Observer 



In Brief 
Authorities arrested 11 people on narcotics charges in South Bend early yesterday, capping a six-month investi­gation that targeted drug dealers in St. Joseph Counfy. "We hope to make some people stand up and take notice," South Bend police Capt. Vinson Smith said. Charges included dealing in cocaine, heroin and marijuana, he said. No drugs were confiscated during the arrests, but drugs had been purchased earlier by police undercover officers, he said: The arrests may slow drug trafficking in the county for a short time, "but after a while it will pick up again," Smith said. -AP 
OwnerS Of the ethanol plant in South Bend have joined a lawsuit seeking to block the importation of cheaper ethanol from Brazil. "In the last quarter of 1984, 4 7 million gallons of Br~ilian ethanol were imported, brought in at prices that reflect dumping," said Barry Direnfeld, the president of New Energy Co. of Indiana Inc. New Energy owns an ethanol plant that began produc­tion in South Bend in 1984. 
The suit filed in federal court by a group of American ethanol companies and farm organizations claims Brazil subsidizes ethanol production and sells the alcohol product in the United States at 39 percent ofits true value. -AP 
Residents ofYuba City, Calif., ranked lowest in Rand McNally's "Places Rated Almanac," burned 400 to 500 Rand McNally maps in a bonfire, but kept its protest upbeat. "We intend to have as much fun with this as we can," said Don McCullough, presi­dent ofthe co-sponsoring Yuba City New Car Dealers Association, as the bonfire got under way Monday night. i-le said the event was "more to show our solidarity and belief in ourselves than a real slap at the publishers of 'Places Rated Almanac."' The survey, which called Pittsburgh the most desirable city in the nation, ranked cities in nine categories. -AP 
Of Interest 
American Enterprise Institute specialist in constitutional and legal studies, Walter Berns, will give a lecture titled "How Does the Constitution Secure Rights?" today at noon in Room 1 1 5 of the Notre Dame Law School. Berns' lecture is sponsored by Notre Dame Law School's Thomas). White Center for Law and Governmnent. -The Obseruer 
."New Directions in Industrial Relations" will be discussed by the chairman and the president of the National Construction Employers Council in speaking appearances this after­noon at 4: l 5 in Notre Dame's Hayes-Healy Auditorium. Chairman William Besl will be joined byJames Baxter, president, for the talk. ­
The Obsen'er 
Wanted: males between the ages of 3o and 10 who would like to pick up S100 for drinking and sleeping. The Sleep Disorders Center at the University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences wants to study the effects of alcohol consumption on breathing during sleep. Depending on body size, participants w~ll be gi~en between a trace of booze and about eight ounces. Speakmg for him­self -and presumably for the subjects -the_center's director, Dr. 
Lawrence Scrima, said, "It will be a fun study to do." -AP 

Weather 
Partly cloudy and windy 
today with highs in the upper 50s. A 40 percent chance of showers tonight with lows near 45. Tomorrow, a continued 40 percent chance of showers with highs in the low 50s. -AP 
The Observer-
Thr Obtlrrvrr (USPS 599 2-4000) is publls~d Monday through Friday and on hom<: football Saturdays, exc<:pt during <:xam and vacation periods. The Obtlrrvrr is publish<:d by th<: stud<:nts of th<: Unlv<:rsity of Notr<: Dam<: and Saint Mary's Coll<:g<:. Subscriptions may b<: purchas<:d for $30 per year ( 120 per ..,. mest<:r) by writing The Obtlrrvrr, P.O. Box Q, Notr<: Dam<:, Indiana 46556. 
The Obtlrrver Is a m<:mber of The A8tloclated Prrll8. All reproduction rights are res.:rv<:d. 
Today's issue was produced by: 
Design Editor.............................. Anne Long Design Assistant............ Mark McLaughlin Layout Staff. Scott Bearby, Ruth Bennett Typesetter ............... Mary Ellen Harrington News Editor ......................... Keith Harrison Copy Editor ........................ Mary Heilmann Sports Copy Editor .............. Marc Ramirez VIewpoint Layout ...................Joe Murphy Features Copy Editor .. Margaret McCab<: Features Layout............................Tom Hall ND Day Editor .............. Cindy Rauckhorst SMC Day Editor............................. Ed Nolan Ad Design .. Susan O'Hara, Kathy Krenzer Photographer ............... Chaitanya Panchal 
Thursday, March 7, 1985 -page 2 



Dividends in cashier's office more than dollars and cents 
Buried in the Administration Building, two floors below University President Father Theodore Hesburgh, Executive Vice President Father Edmund joyce, and various other officers of Notre Dame, are the people with the money. 
True, the automatic teller can dispense money 24 hours of the day, but Claire and jeri are rarely out of order-and seemingly never without a friendly greeting. 
In the fall of 1981 Jeri began cashing checks for Notre . Dame students. Claire joined her inJuly 1982. Together they are literally the heart of the cashier's office and a model for University staff. 
After a weeklong string of midterms, papers, com­puter projects and other assorted disasters, another line is the last thing a student wants to see. Nevertheless, that is just what separates you from your weekend. The Friday afternoon line at the cashier's office. 
At the end of this line are a few bucks in the hand, which is worth more than a mint in the bush, but most valuable of all, two smiling faces. 
This is not the first job 


Sarah Hamilton 
News Editor 
money must get to a person after awhile. 
All the joking and laughable IDs aside, jeri and Claire care about the students. "We wish we could be more helpful," Claire said. "We feel sorry for them, especially the freshmen." At registration and enrollment times of the year, students eventually must find their way to the cashier's office after trips to numerous other offices: the registrar, student accounts, maybe the ACC or Stepan Center. Jeri and Claire wish they could provide more information for students about what forms and receipts 
need to go to the different 
offices. 
From their experience 
either Claire or Jeri has had in which they worked with people, but it is the people here that make the job of cashier so enjoyable for them. "We enjoy working with the students," Claire explained. 
Although she had worked at a bank before coming to Notre Dame, her rapport with people at the bank was not the same a:; it is with the students. "This is more fun," she said. "My family's grown and gone and this is fun for the worst cash lines are on Friday afternoons, especially right before break. Claire and Jeri recommend stu­dents try to visit the cas­hier's office in the mornings and during class hours, for the quickest service. 


In return, there are a few things you can do to make these ladies' jobs easier. jeri and Claire ask that students meet the requirements for cashing checks. Some stu­dents seem to think that they must endorse their 
me." "I like watching 

them blossom," Jeri agreed. "I see them grow over one year and four years." 
The fun is reliving their children's college days and watching them develop, from that first check from Mom and Dad to that final tuition payment. 
Interesting. Cute. Funny. These are three of-the ad­jectives jeri used to describe the Notre Dame student. Often neither Claire norJeri know what it is that starts them laughing. Claire related one day when she didn't know the reason, but before she knew it she was laugh­ing "so hard I was crying." 
Sometimes it is the students' senses of humors that keep the cashiers grinning, but often it is your IDs that keep them in stitches. "The bad one I got was when I looked up at the student (on the ID) and he really looked like the card," recalledJeri. 
Then there are the occasions when you just have to laugh at yourself. Jeri certainly knows the feeling. "I can remember one time when a boy near blind came in and I asked him for his driver's license." Handling all that 
NOW 
~-HKIIPUIN 
EDUCATIONAL CENTER In New York State Stanley H Kaplan Educa\1onal Center Lid TEST PREPIIRATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 CALL DAYS, EVENINGS & WEEKENDS 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. Sputh Bend, IN 46637 
..____ 272-4135 ___.. 
Learn the facts about cancer. 
And make not knowing the risks, one less risk. 

How you live may save your life. 
checks in front of the cas­ 
hier. This is not true. Claire  
and Jeri suggest that if students endorse checks with  ~  
their signatures and lD numbers and have their ID cards  
ready before they get to the counter, the lines will move  
quicker.  
The faster the linesmove, the sooner you will receive  
your cash, and the sooner you will get to talk with either  
Claire or Jeri. There are other members of the Univer­ 
sity's staff who  are  helpful and courteous.  But it is  
amazing how truly friendly Jeri and Claire are. Without  
fail, they're always smiling.  
Whether or not you have any checks to cash or Uni­ 
versity bills to pay, if your day seems even more grey  
than the Indiana sky, stop by Room 106 in the Adminis­ 
tration Building. The cashier's office is never gloomy  
with Claire andJeri around.  

I 
The Observer Is always looking for new talent. Ifyou are int<:r· ested in newspaper writing or production, stop up at The Observer office on the 3rd floor ofLaFortune. 
1717 Lincolnway East Reservations 289-4122 

The Observer Thursday, March 7, 1985-page 3 

Notninations currently accepted for Saint Mary's teaching award 
By ANN KALTENBACH equivalent of one lower-division students. Saint Mary's is an optimum .\tajfl<eporter course per semester also must be place to teach. You don't deal with taught. numbers but with individuals." 
Nominations are now being ac­Students and administrators have Feigl urged students to think cepted for Saint Mary's Maria Pieta received the names of eligible fac­seriously about it as their award. She Award, a highly touted undergradu­ulty in the Freshmen Office, 121 said students should think about a ate teaching honor, said Susan LcMans Hall. teacher who has really done a good Vanek. Maria Pieta Award Commit­The honor will be presented at job for them and write a letter. tee Chairman. Saint Mary's Honors Convocation on The award is named for Sister 
"The philosophy behind the May6. Maria Pieta. She graduated from award is that it's the only honor Vanek remarked, "The committee Saint Mary's in 1922 and entered the given exclusively foe teaching. The values· and takes into careful consid­Congregation of the Holy Cross. award becomes meaningful because eration what a student says. A letter Sister Maria Pieta spent most of Saint Mary's values its teaching. It is of nomination need not be long but her professional life serving the Col­important because it involves signif­should give examples of how a pro­lege in various capacities including icant student participation," said fessor has contributed to her educa­teacher of journalism, dean of stu­Vanek. tion and values." dents and chairman of the theology 
The Maria Pieta Award, conferred A committee of four students, department. She also was director of annually since 1976, recognizes a three faculty and two administrators the staffstudent program, vice presi­faculty member for excellence in will review the letters ofnomination dent of the College from 19';';-6'; teaching, particularly in lower-divi­and submit a slate of three candi­and alumnae-college coordinator. sion courses. dates to the Academic Affairs Coun­She retired in 1969. 
The award is based on student, cil for · final consideration and Vaneck remarked, "Students who faculty and staff nominations. Stu­selection of the recipient. knew her then talked about her con­dents have been asked to nominate a Chemistry Department Chairman cern for students." teacher by sending a letter of sup­and 1977 Maria Pieta Award The award was first presented in port to the award committee. In recipient Dorothy Feigl com­1976. Other past recipients include writing letters of nominations, stu­mented, "The award is an outside Sister Cecilia Ann Kelly, art -1976; dents should consider a professor's confirmation that what you're doing Feigl, chemistry -1977: Isis Quin­contribution to education and is being well received, and that feels teros, modern languages-1978; Lin­values. and committment to stu­good!" nea Vacca, English -1979; Mark dents and to academic quality. "It is a student assessment ofwhat Bambenek, chemistry -1980; Penny 
Requirements for eligibility are you are doing and teachers at Saint Jameson. psychology -1981; Gail six semesters of full-time teaching Mary's like that," she continued. Mandell, humanistic studies -1982; from the 1981 fall semester through "You do a job of teaching because Ann Loux, English -1983; and the 19H'; spring semester. The you enjoy it and because you like William Hawk, philsophy -1984. 

Theology major progratn revised 
flexibility built in. When students Scriptures are essential to the pro­
By MARC RAMIREZ 
wanted to specialize in a certain gram and the major, said Weaver,
Assistant News Editor 
area, such as teaching high school adding that the concentration is on 
Looking for a date for your next SYR? Well, ifyou're going to 
Beginning next fall, there will be theology, we had to make excep­the area rather than on a specific 
Florida for Spring Break, you just might find your man. jim
freedom in religion at Notre Dame 
tions for those students." course. Nabierala is visiting Daytona Beach for Bike Week and is just one and Saint Mary's. The new theology program con­The category of non-Christian 
ofthe cast ofcolorful characters drawn to the city for the annual 
The study ofreligion, that is. 
sists of. the six credits required by religions was created for those stu­invasion ofmotorcyclists.• The program for the major in the­
the University, plus a one-credit pro­dents who want to learn about religi­ology has been revised, said F. Ellen 
seminar in theology, one course in ous doctrines other than Weaver, Assistant Chairman and each of six specified areas of theol­Christianity, Weaver said. Next fall Powell. First, every department tries Collegiate Director of Theology at ogy, and two elective courses in the­will see courses such as Mysticism in to recruit better faculty within the


Grad
Notre Dame, and the new program ology which majors may use to Judaism, Religious Thought oflndia, limits of budget and availabilty. He offers students greater choice and specialize in a given area. and Passage to India offered in this said .that Notre Dame is becoming flexibility in choosing courses, as area. continuedfrom page 1 more competitive in attracting out· well as the possibility of specializa­The six areas include Hebrew Pastoral/applied theology in­standing faculty because of a recent 
tion. Scriptures, Christian Scriptures, His­
volves "courses in spirituality," de­"a moving target," as Gordon stated. push for higher faculty salaries. "We found that the old program tory of Christianity, Systematic The­signed to provide learning through "There's no quick cure, no quick The second aspect involves im· was very structured," said Weaver. ology, Non-Christian Religions, and experience, said Weaver. These remedy for building a graduate pro­proving the quality of the student 

"There were really no electives, no Pastoral/Applied Theology. 
Harvard this summer. 
H
arvard Summer School, foreign language courses, the nation's oldest summer pre-medical, pre-law, business session, offers open enrollment and computer science courses, in nearly 250 day and evening and graduate-level courses in courses and pre-professional education and management. We programs in more than 40 liberal feature a college-level program arts fields. The diverse curricu­for secondary school juniors lum includes courses appropriate and seniors, a health professions for fulfilling undergraduate and program, a Ukrainian Institute, graduate college degree require­the Dance Center, plus programs ments, as well as programs in drama, writing, and English designed f~r career and pro­as a Second Language. fessional development. The inter­For further information return national student body has access the coupon below or call: to the University's outstanding (617) 495-2921; (617) 495-2494 libraries, museums, athletic facil­(24-hour catalogue request line). ities, and culturai activities, 
Academic Calendar:with the additional benefits of June 24-August 16, 1985

Cambridge and nearby Boston. Housing is available in Harvard's historic residences. Harvard University
' 

Offerings include intensive Summer School 
Please send a Harvard Summer School catalogue and application for: 
0 Arts and Sciences 0 Secondary School Students Program 0 English as a Second Language 0 Health Professions Program 0 Drama 0 Writing 0 Dance Center 
Name 
Street 
City State Zip 
Harvard Summer School 20 Garden Street, Dept. 204 Cambridge, MA 02138 
245 

courses would be supplemented by gram. There's no easy way to get applicant pool itself. Extensive involvement with programs such as quality. Even ifyou could spend tons recruiting is done"to attract the best 
Urban Plunge, or doing work at nur­of millions ofdollars, it is not an easy possible applicant pool," said sing homes. "It's the application of thing to find really distinguished Powell. theology to life," said Weaver. "We people that make a great graduate Powell also sees a positive future ·opened up these courses because program." Powell said. for the programs. "We have the re­students were asking for them. sources to do great things. Notre 
Before that, nothing really helped The ongoing process of develop­Dame is a dynamic school, on the them if they wanted to go out .and ing a successful program consists of move. I don't think we'll ever fall work as church leaders." two major facets, according to into any kind of mediocrity." 


Doctoral 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following continuedfrom page 1 
positions: 
tries to pour Catholic higher edu­cation into a mold, the mold of

Circulation Manager 
Harvard and Chicago," he said. 

Ad Design Manager "We're trying to put together an institution which is going to be Questions about these positions should be concerned with its people, the Notre Dame family. We've got to
directed to Sarah Hamilton. Personal statements 
do both things and do them well,"


and resumes are due Monday, March 11 at 5 p.m. 
he said, referring to Notre Dame's goal ofmaintaining a strong under­

..................
~ 
graduate reputation as well as in­creasing the reputation of the graduate school.

PARTY WITH THE 
: 
• 
Gordon believes that some schools obtain their high ratings and success on the graduate level


REAL IRISH I 
by sacrificing quality on the under­

: 
• 
graduate level. He stated thatUniversity of Dayton Irish Club and 
Notre Dame's attempt to obtain a balance "may have somehow hin­
Lambda Chi Alpha (AXA) 
dered the graduate program from 
: 
advancing as much as it could have."


Saturday, March 9 following the big
i 
"Everyone gets in the rating

game at the parking lot behind the game 
-it's an American phenome­

fraternity house (1524 Brown St.) non. Where do we want to be? At the top, of course. but the impor­tant question concerns what does
•



+_ Beverage, food, fun and more!! + 
one want to sacrifice to be at the 
~ very top?"

................... 




Tuscon man receives new mechanical heart 
Associated Press 
TliCSON, Ariz. -A new type of temporary artit1cial heart was im­planted yesterday in a 32-year-old man whose transplanted human heart failed, authorities said. 
The operation was perli>rmed he­cause the c<indition of the patient, who had been h<~oked up to a heart· lung machine, was worsening, said Allan Beigel, a University of Arizona vice president. 
The heart was given to a Tucson man, who was not identified, and he was listed in critical but stable. con­dition after the three-hour operation was completed about 3 p.m. MST, Beigel said. 
A search for another human heart -Thr ObKrver/ Chaitanya Panchal for transplant has begun, and the pa­
When Irish eyes are smiling tient was being kept in the operating room, which was being prepared as
St. Patrick's Day came ear(y this year as these stu­Dame/Saint Mary's Togetherness Week, sponsored 
an intensive care unit, Beigel said. 
dents celebrate a Pre-St. Pat's Day party last night by the sophomore class. 
at Chrlutauqua. The e11ent was part of the Notre He added that a)arvik-7 mechani­cal heart -the same kind implanted into three permanent artificial heart recipients -was flown to Tucson hy 
University of Utah medical officials,

U .S.-Palestinian meeting requested 
Associated Press 
HliRGHADA. Egypt -King Hus­sein of Jordan appealed yesterday for a U.S.-Palestinian dialogue as a first step toward Mideast peace talks. 
He called on the United States to 
seize this "last chance" to settle the 
Arab-Israeli conflict. 
Hussein and President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt, meeting in this Red Sea resort town, made clear the dialogue would have to include members of the Palestine Liberation Organization or at least Palestinians acceptable to the guerrillas. 
ll was the first time Hussein had 

publicly endorsed Mubarak's pro­
posal for a preliminary discussion 
between the United States and a 
delegation of Jordanians and "Pales­
tinians. 
The Egyptian president's proposal 

was offered as a way to get Middle 
East peace talks started and provide 
a forum to draw the United States 
into peace talks. 
The United States has refused to negotiate with the PLO unless it recognizes the existence of Israel. The Israeli government, which also refuses to meet with the PLO, has opposed preliminary talks that ex­clude Israel. 
Appearing at a news conference 

with Muburak, Hussein said, "I share 
President Mubarak's feelings that 
the ( U.S.-Palestinian) dialogue he 
suggested is a very vital element for 
progress. 
"Once again, we are in the posi­tion of having made the first vital move. We have to wait for the reac­tion now." 
The two leaders spoke to reporters after 2% hours of talks. 
Correction 

Because of misinformation, the picture on yesterday's front page was incorrectly identified. The student pictured is Fred Don­nelly. 
Mubarak's proposal calls for the 
dialogue to be followed by talks in­
volving Israel, the United States and 
the joint delegation. Once the 
various sides have reached agree­
ment, an international conference 
including the five permanent U.N. 
Security Council members would be 
convened to ratify the settlement. 

The Egyptian president plans to 
discuss the proposal when he meets 
President Reagan in Washington 
next week. 

There was no immediate reaction 
from Israel or the United States to 
Hussein's remarks. 

Israeli officials in Jerusalem indi­cated that the government probably woulo await a full text of Hussein and Mubarak's remarks before res­ponding. 
Mubarak's proposal as a "narrow window of hope" for resolving the 


Hentton

37-year-old Arab-Israeli conflict. "This may be our last chance," Hussein said. "In fact it is the last 

Pre-La\V Students
chance." (this means you!) 
The Pre-Law Society Proudly Presents.•• 
'The Law School Experience' 
(a movie on Law student perspectives before, during, and after Law school) 
was in Argentina in 19HO and the 
third in 19H I, also by Cooley. 
The plastic heart Cooley used was 
a small pump connected to a room­
ful of machinery. lie said it was only 
intended to keep a patient alive until 
a transplant donor can he tintnd. The 
heart and its earlier versions were 
tested in 200 calves. 
Yesterday's opl·ration, the t1rst of 
its kind with the device, did not have 
approval from the li.S. Food and 
Drug Administration, Beigel said. 
The surgery was performed by Dr. 
Cecil Vaughn of St. Luke's llospital, 
with the assistance of Dr. ,Jack 
Copeland, head ofthe transplant sur· 
gery team at the llniversity of 
Arizona llealth Sciences Center. 
Time was of the utmost concern 
because the patient had been 
hooked to a heart-lung machine li>r 
several hours and was nearing the 
point where continued usc of that 
machine to keep the man alive 
would cause irreparable damage, 
Beigel said. 
Twice bcti>rc in the 62 other heart 
transplant operations performed at 
the university, patients died imme­
diately after surgery because of car­
diac failure, he said. 
He quoted Copeland as saying after the second death, "If this ever happened again, we would do every­thing possible to keep the patient going." 
The patient received a human heart in a transplant operation that began at midnight Tuesday, but did not do well following the operation and showed signs of instability. He suffered severe cardiac dysfunction about 3 a.m. yesterday which led to cardiac arrest. 
Where: CCE Basement When: 7 pm, Thursday, March 7th Price: FREE ! 
Be there or suffer the consequences !! 






EASY RIDER 
TO AND FROM CHICAGO'S O'HARE EVERY ZHOURS EVERY DAY 
United Limo 
~HUUI ~ ,lfli,
,II ..iiUIMIIIIIIII 
10844 McKinley Hwy. Osceola 

.~,~ .1111111111 674-6993 Ill' .·~,~.,,t ti!IHH 
.,1 
155"3068 1 , C \' , 1111111111111111 t 
or call your Travel Agent JJIIIIII IWIIIIJIIIIIII!Un:a I ~ ~~lltllllllllllllr.l 
However, Prime Minister Shimon Peres of Israel on Tuesday rejected exploratory talks between the United States and a Jordanian­Palestinian delegation, saying it might lead to U.S. recognition of the PLO "through the back door." 
Israel has refused to negotiate with the PLO or any Arab delegation that includes known PLO members. 
But Mubarak said he would not bar PLO members from the delega­tion. 
Hussein said he hoped the United States would react favorably to 

•·CCJQowe~tg fp~t aQQ-occqsLong_" 
Comein and Browse 
327 Lincolnway· 23i-3354 
riiiH-IHIHIIIHIIIIOIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIl 
JOIN THE 


Kollman Generation 
Today is the last day that Student Body Commissioner applications will be available at Haggar College Center 
Sign up for an interview 
liiHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIOOOOHOOOI-OHHIHOHIIIIIIIIIOOOIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIOj 
but did not arrive until the surgery to implant the Phoenix Heart, as the new mechanical device is called, had begun, he said. 
The Phoenix Heart has been un­der study for about two years at St. Luke's Hospital in Phoenix, Beigel said. 
Temporary artificial hearts have been implanted in humans at least three times before yesterday's sur­gery. 
The first trial ofsuch a device was made by Texas cardiac surgeon Dr. Denton Cooley in 1969, the second 
The Observer Thursday, March 7, 1985 page 4 
ATIENTION: • All those going on the STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 

Fr. LAUDERDALE/DAYTONA TRIPS•••~ 
There is a mandatory meeting Thursday, March 7th at 9:00 pm in LaFortune Little Theatre 
~i~~~_()__i_ll___t________________ pag~e-5
T_hu-rs-da-y,_Ma-rc-h7-,1-98_5__ 


Will there be nuclear war within next ten years? 
In recent weeks, I have twice come home from work and turned on the television to par­ticularly unsettling national evening news stories. Chronologically, the first concerned the unarmed Soviet cruise missile which strayed unintentionally over Norway and crashed in Finland during a naval training ex­ercise. The second, which followed the first by a mere week, concerned, as Maj. Michael 
Tom Walsh 
guest column 

Griffon ofthe 56th Field Artillery Brigade des: cribed it, the "unplanned rapid ignition of solic fuel" of a Pershing II booster rocket that had just arrived in West Germany. 
These incidents were disturbing because they confronted me in a dramatic way with the fallibility of the instruments which main­tain nuclear deterrence. They remind me of how, from out of the blue and perhaps acci­dentally, these instruments could upset the in­creasingly unstable "balance of terror" and cause unprecedented destruction. 
And they made me wonder if there might come the day when I will return home to the evening news story of a nuclear warhead detonation over some city or military installa­tion somewhere in the world -virtually every region on the globe could be attacked by the growing number of nuclear weapon states. It makes me contemplate world reaction in the wake ofsuch an event -the outrage, the cries for retaliation, the defensive "cornered animal" posture of the perpetrator, the pleas for reason and restraint and the fear that there will be none. 
I am reminded of the reaction to the downing of Korean Air lines Flight 007 and think how that tragedy would pale in compari­son. I realize that "under the wrong circum­stances and at the right time" it is possible that our United States could become, in the eyes of the rest of the world, the "evil empire" by being responsible -for whatever reason -for the first nuclear victims since 1945. I wonder how we Americans would feel about that. 
I learned, through the December 1984 issue of a publication called Nuclear Times that, in response to President Reagan's "we begin bombing in five minutes" microphone test last August, a message was transmitted from the Soviet Far East military headquarters at Vladivostock to a command station 50 miles further north saying "We now embark on mili­
tary action against U.S: forces." It was can­celled by a second message sent thirty minutes later. 
National Security Agency officials have ex­plained that a low-level Soviet officer who was not authorized to announce the alert had done so and that his order was subs;-quently countermanded by his superior. 
The NSA offcials referred to the half hour "war" as a non-event -no unusual Soviet mili­tary actions did occur. But I ttiink that it is worth recalling that low-ranking Soviet offi­cers may have been responsible for the downing ofKAL 007 in September of'83. Also, the decision to use forward-based short-and intermediate-range nuclear weapons in both East and West Europe could be made by relatively low-ranking commanders on the battlefield who, faced with imminent overrun by a surprise enemy thrust, must decide to either "use them or lose them." 
We may be fortunate that the president's joke precipitated only a "non-event." But this does not seem to me a reason to justify or ac­cept it, considering other possible conse­quences. 
I find it objectionable that the administration's proposed I986 budget would include about II00 of my federal tax dollars in its S313,700,000,000 military budget request. 
The administration has requested $2 tril­lion for the Pentagon for fiscal years I986-90. I understand that there are 6I,997,000 Ameri­can families, which translates into S32,03I from each. Our congressmen decide which weapon systems we all, ultimately, finance. I wonder if my SII00 bill for weapons such as the MX, Trident, Pershing and cruise missiles is buying security or fueling an unstable arms 
race. 

I came across a startling statistic recently which has prompted me to write all this. The Defense Monitor, which is published by the Center for Defense Information, currently 
· features proceedings from last September's first National Womens's Conference to Prevent Nuclear War. Helen Caldicott, Presi­dent Emeritus ofPhysicians for Social Respon­sibility and founder of Women's Action for Nuclear Disarmament, was quoted as follows: "Fifty per cent of the people under the age of 30 believe that nuclear war is going to occur within the next ten years." I think that is an incredible statistic. I would like to learn how it was generated. What do you think? 
Tom Walsh is a 1983 Notre Damegraduate who currently lives in Loves Park, Ill. 


Emphasize the positive aspects of life and ND 
I can remember a time, in the not too dis­tant past, when I was drawing a picture of my family during second grade art. The art teacher instructed us on some techniques and allowed us to quickly complete our project for our show and tell demonstration at the end ofthe hour. My picture, ofcourse, consistedof the usual stick figures colored with the most unique colors I could find -black, brown and 
Brian Olson 
guest column 

purple. At show and tell, I was first and pre­sented my "Mona Usa," explicating the ad­vanced color scheme I employed. 
This insignificant memory probably would have passed by now if it were not for my class-1 mate Iggy -Ignatius, that is. Iggy was last that day, as he most often was, and stood timidly as he presented his picture. Iggy could draw · boy, could he draw. He used pencils instead of crayons and managed to create the most real­istic drawing in the class. However, there was something aesthetically disturbing about his family portrait. Mom and Dad were centered on the page, his sisters, Jill and Suzy, on the right and Iggy far offto the left. There was also a rather large oval in the left hand corner with no apparent connection to the drawing. Upon closer examination, it was clear that the oval was part oflggy's body, his right foot. Nothing was said, and we all went out to play. 
At the time, I was unaware of the sig­nificance conveyed through that drawing. It.. was onlylater that I realized the dreadful story of Iggy's life. Iggy had a disfigurement known as a "club foot." The disability makes it diffi­cult to walk and impossible to play any sort of sport. What was worse was the name that my friends and I called Iggy-"Clubber." 
It has become shamefully clear to me that Iggy viewed himself as a deformed foot. His drawing was merely a graphical representa­tion of his observed self-image as mostly foot and not much ofa human being. This memory will remain with me always and will remind me of my ignorance and my contribution to his low sense ofself-identity. 
Just as I will never forget Iggy and his story, never again will I allow such an event to oc­cur. Yet, after one year at Notre Dame, I can see myself and the community faltering as I did II years ago. Today, it is not Ignatius who is labeled, nor any other person but, rather, our University. Today, there are many issues facing us at Notre Dame: the alcohol policy, student government, social life, administra­tion, food, Catholicism and Lent. The only ig­
nominy that has not been considered are 
those repulsive, pale yellow candles in the 
Grotto. 
Most other objections to Notre Dame have arisen, as the pages of The Observer would attest. There is certainly a need to discuss is­sues that face us, but there is also a danger to complain incessantly about them. It is the same danger that resulted in Iggy's low self­esteem. By emphasizing the negative aspects of Notre Dame, there is a tendency to per­ceive this University as a repelling place, void of justice and, more importantly, unworthy of the great qualities which make Notre Dame the finest institution in the nation. <:!' 
For myself, a lasting impression has remained with me since my arrival at Notre Dame in August of'84. Maybe it began when I was greeted on the sidewalk by a young lady I did not know -or at least I thought I didn't know her! 
My suspicion was confirmed, however, when the trend continued and people started opening doors for me. Mind you, this may be common practice in the midwest, but all this friendliness put an Arizonan like myself into shock. 
Anyhow, after I recovered, I finally con­cluded that these were genuine people, some­what interested in my well-being and not interested exclusively in my roommates for 


Presidents have really big toys 
Ronald really liked those "Star Wars" movies. After he saw the first three films, he hardly could wait for the six future episodes promised by Hollywood. The movies were such a hit that Americans everywhere were familiar with the daring Han Solo and the 
Carol Gales 
guest column 

young, impulsive Luke Skywalker. 
Luke was Ronald's secret hero. In the third film, the invincible Luke, strengthened and protected by The Force, finally terminated the evil Darth Vader with his laser wand. Ronald thought that was great. It was just too bad the dying Darth Vader turned out to be Luke's fa­ther, a good man who got mixed up with the wrong crowd. 
Well, when the movies got to be very popular, "Star Wars" toys started appearing on department store shelves. Soon, American family rooms were cluttered with little plastic Yodas and R2D2s, Luke Skywalkers and Darth Vaders with tiny laser wands and model space stations complete with fighter aircraft. For lots of kids, make-believe games in backyards brought the wildly fantastic "Star Wars" world to life. 
Ronald wanted to play, too. But Ronald was really a bit too old for backyard fun with Mat­tel toys. And besides, such games are not befit­ting for the president of the United States, which was what Ronald was. Ronald was sad, for he was a good American who liked the "Star Wars" movies as much as anybody and dreamed -like the other kids -of taking laser­beam-shooting aircraft on attacks against the Evil Empire. 
Ronald had a problem. 
But, luckily for Ronald, he was the presi­dent. He could make up his own games, and he could usually get most of his friends to play along with him. Ronald and his friends would 
let the other kids play with their dinky Mattei toys. They were going for the real thing. You see, the president can usually get what he wants because he knows a lot ofsmart people and has a lot ofrich friends. 
So Ronald convinced his smart buddies to start designing and building him some big, real-live "Star Wars" stuff. They did not have to worry about the cost, for Ronald was going to go visit his rich friends' house to get S25 billion. Ifthey did not have that much money, Ronald was sure that they would go out and get it somehow -he knew they were ready to beg, borrow and steal for him. Ronald was get­ting pretty excited. At last, his dreams about battling the Evil Empire were going to come true. 
Or so he thought. 
But Ronald's smart frier.ds, no matter how hard they tried, just could not put together much more than giant toys. They figured out how to make the space stations, and they were pretty sure they could get the stations up into space. That alone would cost quite a bit; Ronald's rich friends would have to come up with some more money. But even then, the smart guys could not figure out how the movie makers had worked all those laser beams. It had looked so easy at the theater. 
But Ronald's friends decided this was no big problem. They knew Ronald would be pretty excited just to have the biggest toys of all ­even if they were just for games of make-believe. · 
Carol Gales is a senior American studies major at Notre Dame and is a staffphotog­rapher at The Obseroer. 
an SYR date. The strong friendships I have 
developed during the past seven months fur­
ther attest to the quality and depth that can be 
found and experienced at Notre Dame. 
Depth and quality also seem to permeate much of campus life, especially in school pride, athletics, Glee Club Christmas con­certs, the World Hunger Coalition, JPW, Freshman trip to the Dunes, Logan Center, Sat­urday tutoring, Keenan Revue and countless other events and groups. 
Furthermore, Notre Dame is an institution rooted in God and directed toward the educa­tion of the whole person. Through its liberal ideals, it stresses the importance and the in­trinsic goodness ofman and prepares students to bear this message to mankind. Finally, Notre Dame distinctly prepares one to make an individual contribution to enhance the quality oflife on earth. 
As I see it, Notre Dame is a composition ofa great institution and a great family. It is this combination that makes Notre Dame a truly unique place and the finest university in America. I am glad and proud to be here be­cause I am Notre Dame, you are Notre Dame, we are Notre Dame! 
Brian Olson is a freshman in the College of Arts and Letters (lt Notre Dame. 

Viewpoint 
Viewpoint would like to hear from you. If you would like to respond to something you've read in The Obseroer, why not write a letter to the editor. Let­ters should be well-written, typed, no more than 250 words in length and must bear the signature of the author. Letters which are not signed by the au­thor will not be published. 
But letters are not the only way to voice your opinion in The Obseroer, Viewpoint also accepts guest columns. Guest columns should be well-written, typed, no more than 500 words in length and must bear the signature of the au­thor. A guest column, unlike letter to the editor, should notbe a direct response to another editorial. 
Both guest columns and letters to the editor can be mailed to The Observer, P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556, or delivered to eitherourNotre Dame office in LaFortune Student Center or our Saint Mary's office in Haggar College Center. Please include your telephone number. 
The Observer reserves the right to edit all material submitted to the Viewpoint departmentfor publication. 
VieWP-Oint Thursday, March 7, 1985 -page 6 

Know the complicity of institutional sexism 
Early last month, while driving to Marion, Indiana, I tuned into a fundamentalist radio station where someone calling himself Pastor John was delivering a mighty sermon on Christian marriage. Some days later, 1 came across the first volume of the Ahfad Journal, published by Ahfad College for Women, Om­durman, Sudan. Its lead article was on the widespread practice in the Sudan of the most 
Ann Pettifer 

guest column 
radical form offemale circumcision called in­
fibulation. 

Then, last week, 1 read in the New York 
Times that a Reagan appointee, John D. Fed­
ders, described as the 'top cop' at the Security 
Exchange Commission, had been divorced by 
his wife. He had beaten her on a number of 
occasions, once while she was pregnant, and 
another time he broke her eardrum. In that 
same week, it came to my attention that the 
U.S. Catholic Bishops are to go into session shortly to prepare a pastoral on women. 
I have grouped these seemingly disparate stories together. because each one tells us something about male violence towards wo­men. 
I will start with PastorJohn, who had some firm things to say about marriage. He had lifted from St. Paul a primitive anthropology in which a rigid hierarchy obtained. The wife's role was to obey and serve her husband and attend to the children. Her top priority, said Pastor John, was to nurture the fragile male ego so that her man could keep competing in this dog eat dog world. It was an honest, if crude, rendering of the ideology that has cloaked the sacrament ofChristian marriage. 
In his book "Transformations," Roger Gould, a professor of psychiatry at ICLA, has given a succinct account of the land-mines buried in Pastor John's model of traditional 

P.O. BoxQ 
War heroes teach the meaning of self-giving 
DearEditor: 

The hero has lived for years in the minds of Americans as one who not only deserves respect but who also deserves admiration. Every hero possesses a characteristic which
r 
r deserves emulation. 
r However, the admiration these people receive not only rewards them but also can r teach others. By examining the ideal qualities ~ these people possess, hopefully we can irn· r prove ourselves. After all, without living ex­r amples ofcourage, dedication or loyalty, how 
r 
, 
are we to strive for-such virtues or even know 
r what they really are? 
' In this respect, John Neblo's Viewpoint column titled "War veterans deserve thanks, not admiration" disturbs me greatly. In his column, Neblo claims, "We cannot afford to give them (the veterans) our adulation" be­cause, "heroism propagates war." Neblo ap­pears to hold a pretty dim view of America's intelligence. He seems to think that the ad­miration of war heroes -the veterans -will over-glorify war itself and send us into war more readily in the future. 
marriage. It encourages malignant con­spiracies of dependency. In traditional mar­riage, says Gould, the division of labor becomes a division into two alien and mutually exclusive worlds with a superior, independent-appearing male_and an inferior, dependent-appearing female. To be sure, un­der this arrangement, the man pays a price in emotional underdevelopment. Still, he does retain control and the power ofthe purse, and he enjoys the stimuli ofthe outside world. The woman is more disabled under this dispensa­tion. 
The closed, sheltered world of the tradi­tional wife does her enormous damage ­created in the image of God, she usually knows with part of herself that she deserves more than domestic servitude. Statistics reveal that the traditional wife is the greatest gobbler of Valium in western society. Closer to home, I have some first hand knowledge of several breakdowns oftraditional wives in the Notre Dame community. 
The violence that is female circumcision would seem to be in a class ofits own. Infibula­tion ( Pharoanic circumcision) involves the removal of the entire clitoris, the labia rninoria and the labia majoria, leaving the two raw edges to adhere, which produces a length-wise scar. Circumcision deprives wo­men ofsexual pleasure and brings in its wake punishing complications. The Ahfed Journal reports that a great many Sudanese women are circumcised in this way. The cultural reasons given for the practice are to ensure virginity at the time of marriage. Sudanese men are also said to prefer circumcised wo­men. The procedure enhances woman's value as property. 
This practice shocks us because it is not our way ofdoing violence to women -our society has chosen different modes, but they are all on the same continuum. As far as I know, Sudanese men have not developed dishonest, philosophic or theological defences of the practice. When the Vatican circumcised the 
collective psyche of women in its I977 state­
ment, which stated that because women bore 
no natural resemblence to Jesus they could 
not serve the church as ordained ministers, a 
great deal of philosophical and theological 
cant, masquerading as argument, was mar­
shalled in support ofthe statement. 
Now consider the case of John Fedders, wife-beater. Again the violence was direct and physical -this time it grew out of a western devaluation ofwomen which has made the in­visible and saddled them with negative des­criptions ofthemselves. When a man· is yoked to a spouse whose humanity has been denigrated as different, inferior and less pow­erful by the dominant cultural and religious traditions, the inexorable result will be an un­easy ambivalence on the man's part. Am­bivalence, in moments ofrage or anxiety, may well be expressed as aggression or downright hostility. 

Nowadays, it is customary to scoff at those descriptions of women provided by our venerable Catholic traditon. An early church father, Tertullian, thought women were the gateway to hell. Thomas Aquinas pronounced them misbegotten males, and St. Augustine said something equally horrid which my psyche is busy repressing right now. Not surprisingly, as the patriarchy defends its ram· parts, these old caricatures are once more being trotted out. 
Last year, a prominent, reactionary Catholic intellectual, in an article on 'Woman Church' managed to accuse emancipated Catholic wo­men of depravity, sexual licentiousness, poli­tical and cultural anarchy and intellectual inadequacy. It was an astonishing litany of the age-old fears that men have harbored about women. Interestingly, this man speaks in a charming falsetto. I have often wondered if this "female" characteristic has wounded mas­culinity. Could he have upped the ante on wo­men to prove his legitimacy w1th the good old boys? 
Last, but not least, we have the case of the 

On the contrary, by seeing just what our heroes endured and the sacrifices they made, we come to a better understanding ofexactly how horrible war actually is, and we strive to avoid it at all costs. We can also learn the meanfng ofcourage, loyalty and self-sacrifice. After all, what could be more courageous and loyal than giving one's life for a cause? 
Certainly, then, our veterans deserve more than just our respect and thanks. They deserve the praise we would give to any hero who, through his or her actions, helps mold the values of our nation -a nation striving for peace. 
Stephen]. O'Neil Morrissey Hall 

Answer to inquiries as to the origin of 'Zeto' 
DearEditor: 

I realize that many ofthe students out there are questioning as to why "Tank MacNamara" was replaced by "Zeto". I also acknowledge the panic or fear that one might encounter when they realize that they may be forced to relive the horrors of "Psycho-Chicken," "Aspirin-Man" or "Mellish." But I would like 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universi­ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters to the editor is en­
couraged. 

Editorial Board 

Editor-in-Chief. Bob Vonderheide Managmg Edttor .. . .. Mark Worscheh News Editor .. . ... Sarah Hamilton News Editor .. Dan McCullough Saint Mary's Editor . . . Anne Monastyrski Sports Editor. . .... Michael Sullivan Viewpoint Editor . . .... Dave Grote Features Editor . . . Mary Healy Photo Edttor . ... . ... Pete Laches 

Department Managers 

Business Manager... . ..... Dave Taiclet Controller . .............Dave Stephenitch Advertising Manager ....... Anne Culligan Circulation Manager. . . . . . . Jeff O'Neill Systems Manager . ....... Mark B. Johnson Production Manager. ........ Chris Bowler Project Manager ........... Amy Stephan 
Founded November 3, 1966 
to explain why the strip "Zeto" deserves a fair 
chance. In 1979, a man by the name ofJack 
Zeto entered the University. As a Carroll Hall 
Vermin, he exemplified the true Notre Dame­
Vermin spirit. In his freshman year he finished 
a close second in UMOC. It was then that the 

craze started. The word "zeto" was soon writ­
ten on every frosted window, in the snow and 
all across the University. The Vermin tradition 
still carries on today. 
During the next two years Zeto declined to run for UMOC but, during his senior year, the craze began again, and a new phrase arose: "Jack is back." Although Zeto was not om-· cially on the ballot, he again finished second for UMOC, this time as a write-in. But Zeto was more than someone who just ran for UMOC, he exemplified what it meant to do just enough to pass and in the remaining time, party to the fullest extent possible. Zeto was no normal human being, his accomplishments were many, most of which cannot be men­tioned in print. Although Zeto is longgone, his presence lives on. His name is often men­tioned in such distinguished company as Rockne, Sorin and Hesburgh. In Carroll Hall. his legend is so powerful that a sophomore who has never met Zeto was moved enough to name his strip after him. In conclusion, I would like to state that because this new strip is named after another Notre Dame legend, it deserves a fair chance. 
Scott Kiley Carroll Hall 

Sacred Heart is at heart of liturgical renewal 
DearEditor: 
As members of the Notre Dame Chapel 

Choir, who participate weekly in the 10:30 
liturgy at Sacred Heart, we would like to 
respond to the inappropriate accusations that 
appeared in last week's editorial column. 
The community of Sacred Heart was asked by the American Bishop's Council to broad­cast the Palm Sunday liturgy because Notre Dame is recognized as the national center of liturgical study and renewal. After much de­liberation, it was decided that it would be in 
the best interest of the American Catholic community to broadcast the Palm Sunday liturgy, despite the inconveniences to the Sa­cred Heart parish. 
misogynist bishops. The U.S. Bishops' Confer­
ence has announced that work will begin, in 
mid-March, on a pastoral on women. Ameri· can Catholic women, both religious and lay it seems, have made such a nuisance demanding equality in the church, that they have qualified as a bona fide problem, like nuclear arms, the deficit or economic mal· distribution. 
The trouble is that the bishops have it the wrong way around, or 'arse over tip' as my Chaucerian Marna would say. Let me illustrate this point by way of analogy. Whites in South Africa claim to have a 'black problem'; yet those of us who have not been gulled by racist propaganda know that it is not the blacks who have the problem but namely a minority, white racist government which defines them­in language not very different to that used by the church to define women -and controls them. 
The bishops are an impervious bunch when it comes to women, so we can expect them to balk, once again, at confession. Instead ofack· nowledging their complicity in institutional sexism -the sin which is tearing the church apart -the bishops will no doubt wind up trying to mollify women through small ameliorations, which cost nothing. 
Sometimes, 1 daydream about sending all their lordships on a long retreat, with but one text to meditate on-Mark I0:42-44: "So Jesus called them to him and said to them, and said to them, 'You know that among the pagans their so-called rulers lord it over them, and their great men make their authority felt. This is not to happen among you. No; anyone who wants to become great among you must be your servant, and anyone who wants to be first among you must be slave to all."' 
AnnPettifer is an alumna ofthe University ofNotre Dame. 
We feel that Father Dan Jenky has handled 
this situation in an outstanding manner, even 
when confronted with the difficulties in­
volved in carrying out this service. 
Father Jenky has proven his excellence in 
ministering to.,the Sacred Heart community 
and establising a progressive and meaningful 
mass, while utilizing the richness ofthe Catho­
lic tradition. 
Mark Rabogliatti Stacey Rzepntcki Paula Wagener 

Tim Kempton will only be strong if fans let him 
DearEditor: 
Ifyou listen to the words of our fight song carefully, I am pretty sure you will not hear "Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame till they put Kempton into the game," but some people think these words are right as shown by the chorus of boos that accompanied Tim Kempton as he entered the game against Washington last Sunday. 
The fans at the ACC have always been de­manding, which is one of the reasons we are so competitive, but there is a big difference between being demanding of our team and undermining its confidence. We definitely un­dermined Kempton's confidence last Sunday­he played tentatively and whenever he got the ball he got rid ofit as ifit were somethingfrom a dining hall theme nigbt. 
It is obvious that Kempton had less than a perfect season, but without him we would not even be close to an NCAA bid this year. For us to play well in the tournament, it is terribly important that Tim Kempton play well, and that is going to be be tough enough without ten thousand fans on his back. If fans still have a problem with the way he is playing and feel the need to voice it, maybe they should call him up and talk about it, for at least that would show their support and honesty as opposed to jeering him during the game. 
The crowd has always been an important sixth man for us in horne games, so let's use that sixth man against the opposition instead of ourselves. We have got to show the team our true support and loyalty until the end if we hope to do well. I know that sounds trite, but it is not as trite as the NIT. 
Gerry Scimeca ZabmHa/1 








Accent 
Thursday, March 7, 1985-page 7 
Rocking on radio waves 
John Raven-in search ofthe radio station that will fit his taste in music and his mood. 

Magic's out-the music's in new ZIP 104 

ramo is a good outlet for bands like why, as james points out, are sta­that ZIP plays the most popular REM, the Psychedelic Furs, Talking tions like Z-1 00 in Newjersey?New songs every five hours. If you listen Heads, and General Public, that York, KISS-FM in Los Angeles, and to the radio for hours on end, , would otherwise get little airplay, WLS in Chicago, so big in their you're bound to hear repeats simply ,
Pat Beaudine 

but as for the general public, "Not markets? because of the nature of the busi-, enough people want it," he says. "If Acommon complaint is that ness. But he claims ZIP does not ,
ooo

Radio 

people don't want it, why should I top-40 stations play songs so con­overplay. If you are a dial-turner, 1 play it? tinuously that they literally die from like me, it's your own fault, he says, ~ "A lot of people," he says, "like overexposure. Why? james claims for listening to so many radio sta· , 
QQ 
After. the food, the social life, the well-taken -being number one does these records because it's hip to tions.

administration, and the weather, not mean all are satisfied. 

like them. I don't really necessarily James said, "Why does everystudent complaints eventually Programming for ZIP is shaped 
,l 

think they like them." station have to be the same? Why
alight on radio. Most of us are from by two factors: audience opinion ,
The inference seems to be that does every station have to play REM areas where the band contains and market trends. ZIP receives progressive music only acts as an and the Furs? My job is to program ,



104 ,
more than four major radio stations. thousands ofcalls per week, and appropriate outlet for rebellion and my station the best possible for its 

Two top-40, one AOR, and one they do pay attention to them, says .,
restless young emotions. However, market."
adult contemporary· l don't think james. The number ofcalls they get , 
most of us can cope with such a for a song determines the number .,limited selection. But is it really that of times they play it; however, they , bad? ZIP 104 does not think so. cannot possibly play every request. ,
WZZP, better known as ZIP 104, "Ifwe did," he says, "every other , asaulted the airwaves at midnight song would be a Springsteen song , last Nov. 16. Previously, it had been or "Can't Fight this Feeling" by REO 
1 

known as WXMG-Magic, an adult Speedwagon." ,
,
Asked if Notre Dame is consid­
,
ered when programming, james 

l, ,
replies that he thinks it is easy to 

'' Why does ,
discount Notre Dame because the every station have campus is not involved in.the ratings survey, but his own researchto play REM and the reveals mind-boggling numbers of potential listeners. "So, yes, we do

Furs? " 
consider Notre Dame," he con­

contemporary statton similar to cludes. sunny ( WNSN). The switch, accor­Surprisingly, even to james, ZIP ding to ZIP program director and has received very few complaints ,
.,

afternoon OJ jesse james (his real about their format change. Usually name), came about because "Magic when something is new, someone's ~ 
,

was going nowhere fast." not going to like it, he notes. But James and his staff opted for a they have received only one letter 1
,
CHR format, the latest radio jargon and precious few phone calls, even 
,

for contemporary hit radio, or from Notre Dame. But bad senti­.,top-40; however, james does not ment toward South Bend radio ,feel comfortable with categoriza­pervades the campus. Countless 
1
tions. "I don't think listeners label students denigrate the stations. their radio stations," he says. "We "I can't think ofa reason why play the songs people like," which somebody would think we're not he describes as "nice '80s rock· popular at Notre Dame," says james. Bryan Adams, REO Speedwagon, He attributes the bad sentiment to journey, Wham." AOR (album-oriented rock) fans 
The programming is targeted and individualists whc think it primarily for an 18-to 34-year-oid "cool" not to like anything popular. audience, and it's audience they're When asked about progressive after, james says, not challenging music ( WVFI's forte) and its place ll-93, the highest-rated station in in radio, james responds, "First of South Bend. "I don't care what U-93 all, progressive is a '60s term 
does," he says. "I would like us to (referring to groups such as Yes and 
be everybody's second favorite Emerson, Lake, and Palmer) that radio station, because, ifwe were, people coined just to be hip." we'd be so far ahead ..."A point james says he believes college 






Accent 

WNDU-good music and good business for students and all 

the requests, not the I H-to-3~ crowd." Because requests are 
usually made anonymously, it's 
difficult to guess who's on the other

TimAdams ~ 
end ofthe line. Delaney says the station, in gen­

Radio 
eral, does not receive many com­plaints. Those they do get are, for the most part, from adults. WNDll
1t's tim~ to hr~ak th~ sil~nce. hlank~ts the entire Michiana area,­has been the ratings leader for the 
You <.'ouh.l grab a tap~. flip on rendering Notre Dame a very tiny past few years -perhaps the reason th~ TV, or ask your roommate to percentag~. for the lack ofdiSS!ltisfied listeners. sing. Delaney believes Notre Dame According to Delaney, there are 
But inst~ad. you r~ach forth~ and Saint Mary's students like the four things that determine what radio. Th~r~ are many stops you can selections that WNDU plays. songs will be played: how well the make on th~ dial. You may h~ one of However. his beliefcannot be single is selling, how well the album thos~ p~ople who turns it all the verified because WNDll's current is selling. the number of requests way to th~ left and th~n slowly ratings system, Arbilron, does not for a song. and a combination ofall twists it to the right in search of the survey college students. The other factors-a gut feeling, if you station that best fits yc,JUr mood at reasoning behind Arbitron's deci­will. the time. If so, then your lirst stop sion is that, for the most part, stu­When asked if he was aware of will most likely he l ~-9~ ... and it dents do not live in the area all year any discontent expressed by Notre may very well be your last stop. long. Dame and Saint Mary's students 
But surprisingly. although South Nevertheless, WNDll directly with regard to South Bend radio Bend is often considered a "college serves the Notre Dame community stations, Delaney replies he is town," your choice as a student in some ways; it announces public indeed aware of the situation be­makes.littl~ difference to that sta-service events pertaining to the cause, a~ experience has taught 
. r tion's managers. WNDll is on~ school, and the show "Campus him, most people think their station that can take or kave stu­View" is geared specifically to stu­hometown stations are the best. In dein support. dents. For this reason, Delaney reference to the reknowned repeti­According to Program Director assumes students are listening to tion ofsongs common among many and DJ Steve Delaney. WNDll aim~· WNDU. stations, he explains that what to appeal to th~ IH-to :H-year-old How often do students call in for WNDll plays are the most popular crowd. As a result, Notre Dame requests? According to Delaney, "A songs in the country-they sell the tastes have less influence becaus~ fair guess would he not very often most. He says simply, "We're not 

students comprise only a small because the students are tied up in wrong in our repetition." portion of the target audience. other projects-homework, etc. To gain popularity on campus, explains, WNDll will not cater to WNDll, Delaney says, is probably Plus, it's not 'cool' to call the station Delaney realizes the station could the college crowd, simply because th~ least Notre Dame-oriented of to request a song. They're afraid of do extensive polls and change the it would not be as profitable a~ their the area's three major stations be­not being 'cool.· The younger kids, format, go to Notre Dame hangouts current format. Since the students cause the station's hu~e signal our 'active audience,' make most of and send D]'s to parties. But, he 



WAOR dares to be different 

r 
are like those of most stations.

r" 
Although they hire a consultant tor' 
added insight, they mostly rely on
r" 
Pat Beaudine 
local and national record sales, as

r" 
well as local requests. However,

r 
Radio they believe they are more attuned",.. to what's going on in the charts than competing stations. and that it 
pays rich dividends. 

" r 
S .udents. like everyone else, are Reed's "I Love You Suzanne," According to Hulett, "We'realways looking for the perfect preceeding l! .2's latest.

" 
about three weeks ahead of ther 
radio station · the station they can WAOR broadcasts out of Niles, 

~ other stations in the area. We're the
id~ntify with because it plays their Mich. -almost too far away for its 
only one with enough guts to break

r type of music. It's almost an intan­,3,000 watts to power its way to 
r a song."
gible thing, and it means different South Bend. However, its antenna 
When the topic of these "other

things to different people. but it's directly faces the Notre Dame com· r what just makes you feel good to munity, and this helps alleviate the 
r 
tune in for awhile. 

problem.r Many Notre Dame/Saint Mary's W AOR Program Director Dan students don't see the major ar~a Hulett notes.".3.000 watts is our 
" '' We're the only one
r 
stations fitting into this mold. For legal limit as imposed by the FCC.r some, tht· campus radio station Thereti>re we can't begin to chal­with enough guts to 
r 
WVFI is an exception. but guts can't lenge li-9~'s 1.2,000 watt clip." This

r 
make up li>r its lack of broadcast is because of numerous stations break a song. '' quality. near WAOR on the dial, which

~ 
f 
WAOR-9S FM is another um on­would be drowned out by an in­ventional station · one that proudly crease. However, with a good an­holds to its album-oriented rock tenna in a dorm room, W AOR can stations" presents itself Hulett r format. Some characteristics of this reach the campus with high fidelity. responds, "We all work together r system art· that th~ disc jockeys Acommon criticism of radio well. WZZP and ~-93 are going stations is that they often seem to 
after the same markets and WZZP is

~ 
play music for the sake of playing it, doing a fairly good job. On the 

r 
with no particular audience in other hand, li-9 3 has to grow up a

r 
mind. But llulett insists this is not little bit." Spoken matter offactly,

r 
true in W AOR's case. For example, those words seem to reveal a man

r 
the station does gear its broadcast comfortable with his neutral posi· to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's tion and contented with watching 

when the schools arc in session, and the two stations battle it out. have a largt· impal't on their show; it tries to survey the students He is also contented about the they don't talk over the music, anti whenever possible. It also weights fact that W A OR's rating numbers additional .20 to..2.2 hours of music a the emphasis is on freedom. Today's their requests more than those of from Arbitron have been on a four· week. as well as more promotional 
hit songs, or "power currents," arc the average listener. year rise. "I don't think we've gimmicks. They ar~ in the process played on a a rotation offive hours, All of this seems to indicate that reached our plateau yet," he adds, of hiring new talent, and have 
·as opposed to the shorter rotations input is possible with W A OR. "and we have the ultimate goal of already lured disc jockey Scott characterizing more conservative llulett also says their core audience. being the one radio station that Michaels away from WZZP. They "top-40" stations. aged betwe~n IHand .24, is much everyone talks about. It's not possi­also look forward to a more 
During that five-hou(.period, a like the students and that the tceny­ble now, but we've done a good job. pronounced involvement with listener usually hears a variety of hopp~rs are left to U-9~ and WZZP. We've cleaned up our act." Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. classic songs from a wide range of "We offer a more sophisticated The future involves further The future brings a tacit pledg~ music types and era~. For example, program," he adds, "and teenagers refinement. For example, in approx· to continue what is "right" about one might hear The Kinks' "You c<>uld be alienated." imatdy two weeks the station's W AOR. Along with the more open R~ally Got Me," follow~d h Lou Their decisions on what to play format will be rejuvenated with an format, the disc jockeys themselves 
95.5 
proportion to the whole Michiana listening area, they carry little weight in deciding what is played. If a song sells, WNDU will play it. It's 

will still "have more input than they should," and "will work harder than other jocks," according to Hulett. The broadcast is supposed to sound more personal and warm than it~ top-40 counterparts. 
"Yeah, we're th~·leader in the sense of taking chances," says Hulett. We won't satisfy you I00 percent of the time, but we'll get you 90 percent. There's no such thing as a perfect radio station, but we have more potential." 
Thursday, March 7, 1985-page 8 -9 


The stations rate this week's top-10 
\ 

1."Careless Whisper" Wham 1."California Girls" David Lee Roth 
2."I Can't Fight This Feeling" REO Speedwagon 2."The Heat is On" Glenn Frey



songs:

3."The Heat Is On" Glenn Frey 3."Material World" Madonna 
4."Neutron Dance" Pointer Sisters 4. "The Old Man Down the Road" John Fogerty 
5."I Want to Know What Love Is" Foreigner 5. "Naughty ,Naughty" John Parr 
6. 
"Loverboy" Billy Ocean 6. "Careless Whispers" Wham 

7. 
"Too Late for Goodbyes" Julian Lennon WAOR-95.5 7."Just Another Tricky Day" MlckJagger 

8. 
"The Old Man Down the Road" John Fogerty 8."1 Can't Fight This Feeling" REO Speedwagon 9."Callfornla Girls" David Lee Roth 1. "High on You" Survivor 9. "Lovergirl" Tina Marie 10."Method of Modern Love" Hall and Oates 2."The Heat is On" Glenn Frey 10."Relax" Frankie Goes to Hollywood 3."Misled" Kool and the Gang 4. "Naughty ,Naughty" John Parr 5."One More Night" Phil Collins


WNDU-U-93 6. "Too Late for Goodbyes" Julian Lennon WMMS-100.7 
7."1 Can't FightThis Feeling" REO Speedwagon 8."Somebody" Bryan Adams 9."Keeplng the Faith" Billy Joef 10."Pink Cadillac" Bruce Springsteen 

WMMS-the Porsche of the radio business 
In other words, rock forms the 
core, and to the left ofrock they 
play such bands as REM, U2, and

Don Seymour 
Big Country. To the right, WMMS spotlights black music 

Radio with rock influences. In this category they play such songs as Jagger and jackson's "State of 
Like a Porsche racing far ahead-WMMS and his spoken word has Shock." They don't play Chaka of the competition, WMMS the force and resemblance of Khan's "I Feel for You." By 
100.7 in Cleveland, Ohio leaves law. Therefore, when he calls drawing this line they offer a all the Pintos of the radio world WMMS a "local phenomena with diverse program which satisfies gasping in exhaust. After all, national implications," he's not a rock audience without straying WMMS is the supposed best blowing smoke. away to the point ofoffending radio station in the country, and On a more basic note, he them. is a virtual powerhouse that defines the station as album­Another thing that sets their other stations dream about oriented rock. But he notes that station apart is their rare method 

local record sales, and concert 
ticket sales. If, for example, a 
band that WMMS devotes heavy 
rotation to comes to Cleveland 
and can't sell out a small club, 
WMMS would gradually phase 
that band out. He observes, 
"Popular culture changes so 
quickly, almost immediately, so 
we've got to use these 
(yardsticks) to keep on moving." 
• 

100.7 
things they do perpetuates their second-rate image." 
The only thing that seems perpetuated about WMMS is their emphasis on excellence. But what is that one special in­gredient that makes their station so outstanding? Ifit could be reduced to one factor, it is that they have identified their audi­ence remarkably well and, by changing with it, offer a broad­cast that suits their varied listen­ing needs day in and day out. 
"Ifyou don't address the change in your audience you'll become a dinosaur," he warns. 
He further states, "Sure, we stillbeing compared to. Program even though rock forms the core ofchoosing this program. And keep on moving they do. 

play old songs but we alwaysdirectors across the nation of the broadcast, WMMS does Sanders says, "By the time we Unlike their top-40 counterparts preface it with something likewould literally sell their children break some unwritten AOR get Billboard magazine it's too which Sanders claims "lose 'and here's a blast from the past.'

to be mentioned in the same rules. Some of these laws include late. We have to listen to the touch with today," WMMS con­The past is a nice place to visit,breath as WMMS. Or so the im­"to never be more than 20 albums as quick as we can, centrates on not missing one 

pression seems. minutes away from a Led Zep­decide what the hits are, and get but I wouldn't want to live
single trend. He feels that is a there." Free ofthe past and theInvestigating this phenomena pelin song," and "never play them on the air." 
major drawback of top-40. What restrictions of top 40, WMMS naturally leads to WMMS disc black dance songs." If there is Although the margin for error really gets his Irish up, however, 
jockey Denny Sanders, who also one rule that does characterize in such a method seems high, he seems chained by its one goal ­
is their "unabashed lack of happens to be an expert on the WMMS it is that it plays rock notes that they use several creativity ... The world is more to change with its audience 
Cleveland and national radio plus music that a rock audience yardsticks to support their deci­while providing the best broad­
than 22 hit songs," he frankly cast possible.
scene. He is a 1 0-year resident of would enjoy. sions. These include requests, states, "and doin some of the 

.-------~~----..--------~~--~-------------------------~­
Thursday, March 7, 1985 -page 1 0 



Sports Briefs 

The ND-Dayton basketball game will be 
broadcast live by WVFI AM-64 this Saturday at 11:55 a.m. Pete 
An NVA roller-skating party wm be held Pranica will describe the action, and Eric Parzianello will provide tonight from H p.m. to I 0:.30 p.m. at United Skates ofAmerica, .3909 analysis. -The Obsen,er North Main Street, Mishawaka. The cost is S 1.95, which includes skate rental. Bus transportation tickets may be purchased in advance at the NVA office for S. 75 or for S I at the bus. Buses will leave the Bookstore Basketball sign-ups will be held library circle at 7:40 and H:.25 and the main circle at 7:45 and H:.30. this Sunday from 1 p.m. to .3:30 p.m. in the New Orleans Room of Return buses will leave liSA at I 0 and I 0:'30. -The Obser1•er LaFortune. The registration fee is S5 and the tournament staff em­
phasizes that no team name containing vulgarity or a personal attack upon another student will-be accepted at the time of registration. ­
The Obsenrer 
SMC athletic commissioner applications wm 

be available today at the Saint Mary's student activities office in the Haggar College Center. All student/athletes arc eligible. For more The Notre Dame basketball banquet will be held on Monday at the ACC. A cocktail hour begins at 6:.30
information, contact the student activities office. -The Obser1'er p.m. and the dinner begins at 7:.30 p.m. Tickets are S19 each and are 

available at the Gate 1 0 ticket window of the ACC. -The Obsen'er Three Pasta Haters and Their Understudy defeated 
NVA spring sports entry deadlines have
the Hard Balls in the NVA bowling tournament. Nineteen teams 

been set. Spring events include men's interhall baseball, men's_inter­
competed for four weeks in the tournament. -The Obsen,er 

hall softball, women's interhall softball, graduate men's softball, wo­men's interhall soccer, men's interhall soccer and men's interhall floor hockey. The deadline to register team rosters at the NVA office
The ND/SMC Gymnastics Club will play host for all of these events is Wednesday, March 1.3. For more informa­tu Eastern Michigan on Saturday at 1 p.m. in the Angela Athletic 
tion, contact the N\"A offiu: at 2.W-61 00. The Obsen•er Facility. Admission is free. -The Obsen1er 
see BRIEFS, page II 
Box Score 
Notre Dame 66, Mao-queue 60 Marquette (60) 
M FG-A FT-A R F P 
Davis Ill 0-2 2-2 I 5 2 
Trotter 29 7-13 9-13 7 2 B Downing 20 3-6 0-0 5 3 6 Hall .H t-4 0-0 o 3 2 johnson 37 6-9 0-0 3 12 Sims II 1-6 0-0 I 2 Foley 14 1-3 1-3 5 3 Reeder 10 0-0 0-0 0 () 0 Harrison 9 0-2 0-0 I 3 () Copa 19 4-4 2-3 2 5 10 200 23-49 14-21 20 30 60 
FG Pet.· .469. FT Pet.· .667. Team rebound•­
3. Turnovers -14. Assists -II (Davis. Trotter 
3 ). Technicals-None. Notre Dame (66) 
M FG-A FT-A R F P Royal 36 <H 15-IR 15 I I~ Barlow 2R 2-5 4-6 ~ 3 R Kempton 29 4-4 ~-7 4 4 13 Rivers 39 7-1 I 6-7 2 4 20 Hicks 23 1-6 2-2 3 4 Beeuwsaert 4 1-2 0-0 I 0 2 Duff 20 0-0 0-2 0 I 0 Price 40-00-0010 Dolan 2 1-3 0-0 2 3 2 Voce I 5 1-1 0-0 0 0 2 
200 17·35 32-42 32 18 66 
FG Pet.-.486. FT Pet.-.762. Team rebound•­
3. Turnovers-17. Assists· 9 (Rivers 4 ). Teehni­cals-None. 
The Obserr•er Notre Dame otfkt:. located on the third floor ~>f LaFortune Student Centeo-r. acn:pts classifkd advertising from 9 a.m. until -4 p.m.• Monday through Friday. The Obserr•er Saint Mary's offin·. located on the third floor of Haggar Collt:ge Cema. ace.-pts da"ifie<.ls from I 2:.~0 p.m. until 3 p.m.• Mon­day though Friday. Dea<.llin.-for next-day dassilkd' is -~ p.m. All dassifil·<.ls must be prepaid. t:ith.-r in pt:rson or hy mail. Chargt: b I 0 n·ms pt:r fi\T l·harac­




Classifieds 
ters t:r <.Ia •. 
NOTICES 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-811117 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287--4082 
EXPERT TYPING 277-8534 AFTER 5:30 
WOADPIIOCESSlNG 
ID--6045 
TYPING Term papers. resumes. leners. manuscripts. Reasonable rates: Pickup & del1very on campuses available. Call Mrs SchultZ between ~tO PM 277-5134. 
A free application form that gives you acceas to more than 500.000 choice SUMMER JOBS IS yours by sending a stamped. sail-addressed. return en­velope to: Student Employment Services 205 Wendell Avenue. Pinsfield. Mass 01201 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MAS. COKER. 233-70011. 
CLEVELAND CLUB 
CLEVELAND CLUB 
CLEVELAND CLUB 
CLEVELAND CLUB The ··social Gathering.. •s scheduled lor this Sat.. March 9. 1985. l11s at the same place O.C. as before. Any questions. please contact one of the officers. You are encouraged to come Also, there IS NO bus lor Spring Break 
Word Proceas1ng!Typ•ng -also copymg. Call Andrea: 283-3880 -9 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. 
TYPING Jeckle llogga 684-8783 
THE NEW YORK TIMES'Ifs not too late to order THE NEW YORK TIMES. the world"s 1 newspaper .lor campus delivery at 35 cants a dey Contact George Devenny at 145 Stanford 283-2094. 
PRO-TYPE Over 14 yrs. experience typing student papers. d1Uertal10ns ate. 277-5833 
LOST/FOUND 
A c«lculator found In Hayes-Healy. II you loaf one call BRUSH to claJm II al 1150. 
LOST: ONE PAIR OF BLACK LEATHER SKI GLOVES BUT I DONT KNOW WHERE. CALL CHRIS IF FOUND AT 1150. 
......................... 
FOUND: Ladle"• watch during breakfast (Thu.-.day. 2/28) Ill North Dining Hall. Call 1101 (Gary. Jim. or Bubba) to Iden­tify. 
LOST: A ROUND. BROWN. LEATHER BASKETBALL. I LOST IT AT THE ACC LAST WEEK. IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL DAVE BECAUSE I FEEL LIKE AN IDIOT fOR LOSING IT. MY NUMBER IS 1118. 
LOST: Key chain With 3 keys. two dorm keya and one small. oilvllf trunk key. SMURF key chain says: 'Td rather be ll<iing. ""lllound please c«ll4081. ASAP!!! 
LOST:Bleck and gold Croes pen between Laundry Bldg. and Momuey Jut Friday at11 :30 a.m. -3828 Kev1n Lost: A girl's GOLD bracelet. somewhere on campus. Saturday. March 2. II was a gilt. and is of great sentimental value. II found. PLEASE return to Aline--238 LeWIS, X2179. Please have a conscience! REWARD OFFERED!! 

LOST: Necklace with single pearl in lhe women'alocker room at the Rock on Sun. night. Would It help H I sa1d it had sen­timental value .. it does. Please call TRISH at 232·0659. 
FOUND SUNDAY NIGHT OUTSIDE STEPAN CENTER A BENGAL BOUTS TICKET NUMBER 1111. I SAW YOU DROP IT BUT COULDN"T FIND YOU IN THE CROWD. CALL KIM 4205. 
LOST BLACK ARMY ROTC COAT AT ST. MARY"S CLUB HOUSE SATURDAY MARCH3.1F FOUND CALL3127. 
LOST: A GOLD ROPE BRACELET AT THE SENIOR COCKTAIL DANCE IN THE MONOGRAM ROOM OF THE ACC, THURS. FEB. 28. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL MARY 2n-3834. THANKSI 
~ound: a leather basketball at the Rock. II you fit the oilualion please c«ll Bill at x3133 to describe yourrock and hopefully claim it 
FOUND: Cal near Senior Bar. Call Dan 1849. 
LOST: Pendant on a silver chain some­where between South Dining Hall. the Rock. and the ACC Wednesday evening. February 13. Pendant has a rose pamted on a black background. with a silver back­ing. It has great sentimental value. REWARD:Does a pan of browmes and my undying gratitude sound good? If found please call Karen x2145. 
lost: lighl blue wool suit jackel wilh blue leather patches on elbows. leh at the ACC alter the brunch lor JPW. call Tom at 1655 
LOST: PAIR OF BAUER CHALLENGER HOCKEY SKATES LAST FRIDAY IN THE CUSHING AUDITORIUM AFTER THE 11:15 EMIL CLASS. THEY WERE IN A GREEN BAG WITH THE LETTERS '"MIKE'S PLACE... PLEASE CALL MIKE OR KEVIN AT 3443. 
LOST: GOLD CHAIN BREACELET BE­TWEEN (OR IN) CAMPUS MINISTRY. THE GREAT ZAHM HALL & FARLEY. SENTIMENTAL VALUE, PLEASE RETURN IF FOUND FOR REWARD. CALL LAURIE AT 4039. 
LOST Black and Blue Wool Searl lost near the ACC. II found. call Karen at x2676. 
LOST: Blue sk1 jacket at SMC Saturday. Reward. Call Terry 1436. 
loet:woman·s suit.greenish grey wool skirt and jackal with a beige blouse. loet on Fndey.Mar 2. if found please c«ll Kelly­232-o659 
FOUND ONE MEN"S GOLD SEIKO WATCH AT THE CAMPUS VIEW HOT TUB. THANK YOU VERY MUCH 
LOST: THREE LETTERS ADDRESSED TO INDIANA BELL. AND M.P.SMITH ON OR AaOUT 2128. IF FOUND PLIEASE CALL MIKE AT 2n--31128. REWARD 
LOST: ONE TATTERED PUMA GYM BAG ON 3/4. I NEED THE LETTER IN THERE YOU CAN KEEP THE TAPES. MIKE 277-3828 
Loat: Five pans of JELLO last Saturday. 1Oth floot Flanner. 
FOUND: Tan purse in Stepan perking lot March 1. Call2958 to claJm 
FOR RENT 
Nice sem1-lurnished house. 3/4 studenls. 255-3684/288-0955. 
Nice 2 student semi-furnished house, 288-0955/277-3604. 
SUBLET LARGE 2BR APT. AC. DISH­WASHER. WALK-IN CLOSETS. WAS­HER AND DRYER. PETS OK. RIVERSIDE DR. AND ANGELA, CALL 232-4355 
RENTING NOW FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR-FIVE & SIX BEDROOM HOMES. COMPLETELY FURNISHED WITH WASHER & DRYER. CALL 234-9364 AFTER5. 
WANTED 
RIDE TO NEWARK NEEDED. CAN LEAVE ANY TIME AFTER THURSDAY MORNING, MARCH 14. WILL SHARE USUAL. CALL MIKE AT x1745. 
EXCELLENT INCOME FOR HOME AS­SEMBLY WORK. FOR INFO CALL 504­646-0315 EXT. B-1938. 
Summer Sales Positions. Average earnings $2.900. Sell yellow page adver­tising lor University of Notre Dame Campus Telephone Directory. Car neces­sary. No summer school students. Qualified students should call University Directories. 1-800-334-4436. for more in­formation and to set up an interview by March 11. Ask for Barbara Nieukirk. 
RIDE NEEDED: to Kewanee. lll.(along 1-80). Leave 3-15. Share usual. Call Jack 
2066. 

RIDERS NEEDED TO D.C .. S. MD, CALL 3283 FOR INFO 
NEED Rll;>E TO MADISON WI. FOR SPRING BREAK. WI~L SHARE EX­PENSES. CALL ROBB AT 4107 
NEED MATH 104 TUTOR FOR TEST NEXT TUESDAY. IF INTERESTED CAll ROBBAT 4107. 
CHICAGOll CHICAGOll Need a ride to downtown ( or the west "burbs) on FRIDAY March 8th. Please have it In your big heart to give Usa a call­-She is always lonely!! Her number is 283-3033. She is so lonely so keep trying to call even real late at night -that of course is when she is home. 
• 

Round Trip transportation to FLORIDA only $60 ... lor furlhllf info call Dan(2560) orTom(2551) 
NEED MORE RIDERS. FLORIDA.DAYTONA, FT. LAUDERDALE, $60 ROUND TRIP. CALL JEFF3467 
RIDE NEEDED TO CHICAGO: Down­town or any suburb. Friday,3/8. Please call Gins--2695. 
Need ride to PITTSBURGH over Spring Break. I can leave Fri. or Sat. 15/16. Call Karen. x2676. 
RIDE NEEDED TO LONG ISLAND NY AREA FOR BREAK CALL KATHLEEN 1267 PLEASE! 
AlDERS needed to CINCINNATI for Spring Break. leaving 3/15. Call Dave at 277·3953 evenings lor details. 
Ride need~d to Pittsburgh area rO: spring break. Please call Jim al 1930. 
Ride Needed to DAYTON. OH leavmg Friday afternoon on March 8. Please call Joanat4161. 
RIDE NEEDED TO ATLANTA CAN LEAVE THURS AM CALL PAT 1003 
RIDE NEEDED to SARASOTA/FT.MEYERS after GMAT on saturday! Please call284-5049. 
I NEED A RIDE TO ANN ARBOR­DETROIT AREA FOR SPRING BREAK PLEASE CALL MELODY 284-5482. 
WWANTED; RIDE TO NEW HAMPSHIRE OR BOSTON WILL SHARE EXPENSES. PLEASE CALL BROTHER BENEDICT AT 239-6187. I CAN LEAVE AT ANY TIME 
Ride needed to Arlington.Mass­badly.even Boston would be line!Can leave on 3/15 after 12.Please call Bill atx3133 
RIDERS NEEDED TO DAYTON LEAVING SAT-CALL LEIZA 2819 
Need ride -To Mpls/SI. Paul lor spring break. Can leave Wed. Call Sara al 283­3541. 
RIDERS to CLEVELAND 3/15 256-6676 DAVE. 
FOR Sale: One way ticket to N.Y.C on United. Cheap Price. Leaves 3/15 Call 2348 
Riders needed to NJ on 3/16 
call Sue284-5194 
FOR SALE 
MAXELL TAPESII SPRING BREAK CJ.EARANCE XLII-90mn. $24/case of 10 Call 1596 or 124 Dillon 
SKI BOOTS -Hanson Citation. 1 year old. $65. Call239-5699. daytime only. 
75 CHEVY MALIBU Classic:. Excellent running condition; 86.000mi.: New tires/battery: little rust. $700. Call 277­4745. 
Space heater. $15; sleeping bag. $10. Jim Cavanaugh 239-7735. 
VW "80 DIESEL RABBIT SUN­RDOF.STEREO,GOOD CONDI­TION.70,000 MILES $2250 277-3897. 
TICKETS 
FLY to RALEIGH, N.C. for Break' Call Sueat2960. 
PERSONALS 
JIM CREELY thanks lor the greatest 6 months: SMILE-ellen loves you II 
RIDE TO NEWARK NEEDED. CAN LEAVE ANY TIME AFTER THURSDAY MOANING, MARCH 14. WILL SHARE USUAL. CALL MIKE AT x1745. 

SKI VAIL COLO SPRING BREAK Condo sleeps 41. Ful Kitch. FRPL. Jaccuzi. Pool. LV M56 303-66~2700 
LUNCH AT SENIOR BARt MARCH 811 amto2pm Entry $1 altha door ALL PROCEEDS GO TO FIGHT MS 
WARD"S WARRIORS .. WARD"S WAR­RIORS.. WARD"S WARRIORS WARD"S WARRIORS.. WARD"S WAR­RIORS... WARD"S WARRIORS WARD"S WARRIORS ... WARD"S WAR­RIORS..WARD"S WARRIORS 
THEY"AE COMING IIlli THEY"RE COMINGlllll CHESTER AND ANNE 
THE SUN, THE SNOW, THE NIGHTLIFE, THE MOUNTAINS. SKI THE BEST THIS SPRING BREAK­ASPEN, COLORADO. $397 INCLUDES TRANSPORTATION, 6 DAY UFT PASS, 7 NIGHTS LODGING RIGHT ON THE SLOPES I CALL MIKE AT 283-3573 FOR INFORMATION OR TO SIGN-UP. 
SMC Students 
Today is the last day to join the 
KOLLMAN GENERATION 
pick up application at HCC. 
Riders needed to Rochester, NY. Leaving 3/14 and returning 3/24. Call Frank at 1422. 
NEED EXTRA $. SELL YOUR CLASS BOOKS AT PANDORA"S BOOKS.937 SO.BEND AVE,M-F B!T12-4PM. WE ALSO OFFE:R A 3 DAY SERVICE FOR USED BOOKS. 
PITTSBURGH SPRING BREAK BUS SIGN UPS: THURSDAY, 7 P.M. LAFDRT. LIL THEATER. $45 ROUND TRIP,$30DNE WAY. BUS LEAVES FRI. MARCH 154 P.M. 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HDLIDAY INN. 
THEY MOAN. THEY GROAN. THEY CRY FOR MORE---THE CHORUS OF ELECTRA 
Greek women do it under their togas ... See ELECTRA 
THIS IS WHAT YOU HAVE ALL BEEN WAITING FOR: MANDATORY IN­FORMATIONAL MEETING FOR ALL THOSE GOING ON THE STUDENT AC­TIVITIES BOARD SPONSORED TRIPS TO FT. LAUDERDALE AND DAYTONA BEACH. WHEN? THURSDAY. MARCH 
7. 1985 AT 9PM. WHERE? THE LA FORTUNE LITTLE THEATER. 
RIDE OR RIDERS NEEDED TO UNIV. 
OF IOWA. IOWA CITY THIS WEEKEND. 
LEAVING THIS FRIDAY THE 8th AND 
RETURNING THE 10th. CALL JEFF AT 
1118. 
GET PSYCHED FOR SPRING BREAK! Send BEACH IN A BAG to your friends! On sale lor 50 cents at SAGA during din­
ner3/~3n 
Sponsered by SMC CIRCLE K CLUB 
FREE DRINK WITH YOUR SUB. CALL THE YELLOW SUB FOR DELIVERY AT 272-4453 MQ-TH 8-11pm FA-SA 8pm­1am 
l"m a Southerner g01ng west for break. Need ski jacket. Will pay $$. Call Marc 1158. 
Food : It even sounds nutritious .. 
MOTION in concert at THE CHAMELEON CLUB Friday. March 8: 5:30-7:30 p.m. 
METRO MISTAKE sign-ups Will be now held Thura. night at 7 pm on 2nd floor Lafortune. We can·t compete Wllh lhe Marquette game. Sorry if this incon­veniences you in any way. If it does. we'll make it up to you. Roll on METROlll 
ATTENTION ALL OFF-CAMPUS STU· DENTS: MARCH NEWSLETIER AVAILABLE IN LaFORTUNE AT THE OBUD DESK. PICK YOURS UP TODAY! 
One of the nation·s largest cities has changed its name. From now on it Will be c«lled Than Franthithco. 
THOUGHT FOR THE DAY; No greater burden tries the soul of man than havmg the tune from "Entertainment Tontght" running through the head over and over and over. R.K. 
OFF-CAMPUS MASS 3/10 8:30p.m. 
CAMPUS VIEW bldg.54655, apt. 202 FOR INFO., CALL RACE THOMAN 272­0734 

HEY SNELLA Ill WE"RE AS GOOD AS THERE 1!1 Love. Hulas 
Can you seriously imagine Julie Darnell and Annie Troester in Italy for a year?? (Just kidding. guys!! Glad ya made it!) 
Kara. did we ave fun at that party TO­MORROW? l"m sure we"ll have fun!!! 
HELP FIGHT MSlll! Come to the CAR· NIVAL NIGHT/DANCE Friday. March 8. 
9:00 lo 1 :30 at Soulh Dming Hall. $2.00 for 
D.J.. band. drinks and pizza-all proceeds go to MS. Draw1ng will be held for lrip to two to San Diego. Sponsered by Sopho­more and Junior Classes 
MONTE CARLO NIGHT 
Friday. March 8, 9-t :30 South Dmmg 
Haii...Eating. Drinking. Carmval Games & Dancing to ··cold Drinks·· band..San 01ego Trip draw1ng at 11 pm. ALL PROCEEDS GO TO MS 

S.n Dl.go Trip R•llle all expense pa1d trip lor 2 to Sunny Calilorma over Easter Break. Drawing this Fnday at Monte Carlo Night. Contact your hall Sopho­more or Junior Class rep now lor your $2 ticket to Paradise ...All proceeds go to MS Fund Dnve 
I WANT TO ESCAPE! Need a ride to Purdue. please call Michelle 4234 

Chester, we've got to celebrate soon! Love, Anne 
To I he guys on the ski team from Grace who carried my suitcase from the Ma1n Circle -I don"t know who you are. but I owe you my first born child. Thanks a m1Hion. Usa from Florida. 
TDK SA so·s STILL ON SALE AT ROCK DU LAC RECORDS We are expec1Jng a shipment today (3n) after 3 PM. Sale Will laat until everyone is happy. Check out are new supply of records while you are there Phil Collins The Smiths Alan Per­sons much morel! 
Ride needed to O'Hare 3/15.1rom O"Hare 3/24. Gall284-5450 
Wilson-Happy Birthday! 
Hope your day Is great' 
Luv your not-so-aecret-admirer-Jen 
LeMANS SOCK HOP 3-8-85 
LaMANS SOCK HOP 3-8-85 $1 ADMISSION 

The Observer Thursday, March 7, 1985 -page 11 
Briefs 
continuedjrompage 10 
The MS softball tournament has been res­
cheduled to March 26-31. Teams of five men and five women may register in the LaFortune lobby on Wednesday, March 13, from 7:30 
p.m. to 9:30p.m. The registration fee is no, which goes to MS. The winning team will win dinner at Amigo's restaurant. For more infor­mation, call Steve at 283-1045. -The Observer 
NCAA tournament tickets for bleacher seats still remain for the first-and second-round games at the ACC on March 14 and 16. The S30 tickets, good for all games, are available at the ACC ticket office. -The Observer 
An aerobicS inStruCtOris being sought by NVA for the 1985-86 school year. Anyone who is interested may fill out an application at the NVA office in the ACC. For more information, call 239-6690. -The Obsen1er 
I. 

Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Thursday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Briefs must be clearly written. -The Observer 
NVA aerobics and stretchercise classes will 
begin on Monday. For more information, call the NVA office at 239­6100. -The Obsen1er 
WINTER WARM-UP SPEClA Save s1 to s2 on ... 
No CotJpons Necess.~ry Reg. NOW 
FRIED SHRIMP____ -___________}6.25 $5.25 LAKE PERCH-------------------57.95 $5.95 
RED SNAPP.ER__________________SS.25 $6.75 STANDARD CUT of PRIME RIB___S0.25 $6.95 LL CUT of PRIME RIB________s12.50 $10.50 
Each entree includes a bottomless tureen of home­made soup, baked bread and butter, plus your choice of baked potato, home fries or rice mason. 
~ Offe_:_ f!01 .-.Jiid with .my other ddvertised specidls or co•~rx;•ns.':: 
Expires April 1985 


Notre Dame swimmers end season at Midwest Invitational in Chicago 
ByDAVE WILSON 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame Head Swimming Coach Dennis Stark and nine of his top swimmers begin final season competition today, as the Irish par­ticipate in the Midwest Invitational Championships in Chicago. The meet, which runs through Saturday, will close out the 1984-85 season for the Irish. 
"We're looking more at the indi­vidual performances this time around," said Stark. "I think we can expect some excellent swimming, especially from our seniors." 
Stark is looking to senior co­captains Brian Casey and Timothy Bohdan to finish among the top swimmers. In the Midwestern City Conference championships three weeks ago, Casey garnered two second-place finishes in the 100­yard and 200-yard butterfly, and was fourth in the 400-yard individual medley. Bohdan contributed second-place finishes in the ZOO­yard backstroke and 400-yard med­ley relay, and anchored both of the free relays for the Irish. The team finished second to Evansville in that competition. 
Two other seniors to make the travelling squad are Paul Benz and diver Mike Kennedy. Benz turned in two strong backstroke races in the Midwestern meet, and is expected to repeat the performance in the 1 00-yard backstroke this weekend. Kennedy, likewise, is coming off an impressive victory in the three­meter diving competition, and has been a consistent participant in one­meter diving as well. 
"Our strongest swimmer besides our seniors just• may be John Koselka," continued Stark. "We're a small team, but again, I think we'll be more concerned with our individual performances than with a team vic­tory. There'll be some tough compe­tition up there." 
Koselka, a freshman, specializes in the SO-yard freestyle. Rounding out the nine-member squad wil be junior John Coffey, who swims the 200-yard freestyle and breaststroke; freshman Jeff Grace, a medley and relay swimmer; junior Blaise Har­ding, a breaststroke swimmer; and sophomore Chris Green, who turned in a powerful second-place finish in the 400-yard individual relay at the Midwestern meet. 
"We finished eighth out of nine teams at last year's Midwest Invita­tional, and I hope we can improve on that," said Stark. "You just don't know who will accept the invita­tions until you arrive at the meet. I would expect to see Western Ken­tucky in the competition again." 
Western Kentucky, the meet's defending champion, should be joined by Eastern Kentucky, Nor­thern Iowa, Bradley, Southwest Mis­souri State, and a number ofschools from Illinois, including host Univer­sity ofIllinois-Chicago. 
Team hopes for turnaround 

Chaney named as Clippers' coach 
Lynam hired Chaney as an assis­ 
tant shortly after being appointed  
LOS  ANGELES  -Don  Chaney,  the Clippers' coach.  
named  yesterday  to  succeed Jim  "I've always wanted a chance to  

Lynam as coach of the Los Angeles coach in the NBA and I'm going to 
Clippers for the remainder ofthe Na­try and make the best of it," said 
tional Basketball Association season, Chaney, who played in the league
intends to be on the job for a lot for 12 years before retiring in 1980. 
longer than that. "I had a meetingwith the guys today. 
"I'm a very optimistic person," I expect a lot ofthem. We're going to 
Chaney said at a news conference try to finish the season as strong as 
called to announce the change. "I possible.
feel if I'm succc~ssful the rest of this 
"At this point, a lot ofthe guys feel 
year, I'll be the coach next year. they cannot win games. When you
Those are my intentions." feel that way, you're not going to 
The Clippers, who entertained win. The players must believe in 
the Cleveland Cavaliers Wednes,day themselves. My job would be more 
night, were 22-39 under Lynam this or less to force these guys into season and lost 17 of their last 20 believing in themselves." 
games. The club is playing its first season in Los Angeles. Only last week, Clippers General Lynam, 43, was hired to coach the Manager Carl Scheer said publicly 
club prior to the 1983-84 season, that a coaching change wouldn't be the club's final year in San Diego. made until the end of the current The Clippers were 30-52 that season, if a change was to be made at 
all. 

............................, ..............t ..llllllllllllltllllllltl•t~~-'''"'"'""''"...'" 
HappyBirthdaySpecial 
You and your friends can have your very own Observer display ad 


¥ We accept almost any picture, almost any information .._Just give us the material by 1 pm two publishing days prior to the birthday 
For only a few dollars per friend you can 
give this one-of-a-kind gift that won't be 
lived down for years 
The Observer, 303laFortune Student Center, 239-5303 
llll.....tHIIIIIIHNIIHIIHHII................HHIIII 
................"'" 

• ···~··················· 
•

• : TONIGHT! :
•

• : so~ cocktaUs 8-11 p.m. :
• 
$1.00 Imports every Wednesday 
•
•

• Jack Daniels Night next Wednesday !
• 

: Open at 8:00p.m. 259-7233 
• 
• • • • 
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 

······························' 
"When I said that, I meant it," Scheer said. "I thought the team would respond more favorably than it did. I thought if I could take some pressure off that maybe it would help. The team continued to show no progress. 
"I don't expect Don Chaney to work miracles," Scheer said. "He has an opportunity in 21 games to see if he can turn the team around. I won't think about (a coach for) next season until after this season." 
Chaney, who played guard, was known for his defense and play­making rather than his shooting skills. He was a member of NBA championship teams with the Bos­ton Celtics in 1969 and 1974. 
Following his retirement as an ac­tive player, he joined the Detroit Pistons as an assistant coach to Scotty Robertson. He held that post until Robertson was dismissed as head coach in the summer of 1983. 
Tose agrees to sell Eagles to auto dealer 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -After trying for months to sell a minority interest in his Philadelphia Eagles, Leonard Tose has agreed to sell out entirely to Miami auto dealer Norman Braman for S6S million, a source close to the NFL team said yesterday. 
Tose, reportedly S42 million in 
debt, has been trying to sell a share 
ofthe National Football League fran­
chise for more than a year, but in­
sisted on retaining control in 
previous negotiations with 
prospective buyers. 
He faces a deadline ofApril 1 on a 
n 2 million note from the Crocker 
Bank of California, which has 
threatened to foreclose on the 
Eagles ifTose defaults . 
Tose and his daughter, Susan Fletcher, who is the Eagles vice pres­ident and general counsel, were both in Miami Wednesday, reportedly closing the deal . 
Any deal to sell the team would need approval from 21 ofthe 28 NFL team owners, who will meet Mon­day in Phoenix. League spokesman Jim Heffernan said the approval process would start with a back­ground check of any new owner, once Tose served notice of an im­pending sale. 
------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

The Observer Thursday, March 7, 1985-page 12 


Women 
continuedfrom page 16 
Even with the pro6ability of a 20­win season (they have one game remaining, at Xavier this Saturday) the Irish still must be considered a long-shot selection for the 3.2-team field in the women's NCAA Tourna­ment simply because there are so many quality teams and only 14 at­large bids available. (The North Star Conference, in only its second year ofexistence, does not yet receive an automatic tournament bid.) But yes­terday's performance undoubtedly gave the tournament selection com­mittee a message it couldn't ignore. · "I think this game showed them (the committee) that this is a team that has to be looked at," said Irish coach Mary DiStanislao. "The con­ference title is a big confidence builder for this team -it proves that this program has arrived. I hope we won't be penalized too badly for our early-season losses, because this team is really playing well now. We've dominated the conference statistically, and we won the confer­ence in convincing fashion. We've established that we're the best team in the conference." 
Some might have questioned that claim in the early going of yester-


Mary Beth Schueth 

day's game, as the Irish topped the Flyers by just two points, 13-1 1, aft~:r 12 minutes of play. Dayton's 6­.2 Michele Kruty, 6-5 Theresa Yin­gling, and 6-1 Monica West were giving the Irish fits on the boards, and even Notre Dame's full-court pressure was not having much of an effect. 
But as the half wore on, Trena Keys started to heat up, and Notre Dame's leading scorer boosted her team to a nine-point halftime lead al-

Box Score 
Notre Dame 72, Dayton 57 Dayton(57) 

M FG-A  FT-A  R  F  P  
Klette  31  6-11  4-4  3  2  16  
Kruty  27  2-6  6-8  11  3  10  
Yingling  20  1-6  0-0  4  4  2  
Byers  34  1-7  0-0  1  3  2  
Abla  40  7-10  2-2  3  4  16  
Dickerson  21  2-4  0-0  5  1  4  
Curd  10  0-0  0-0  0  0  0  
West  8  2-4  0-0  4  5  4  
Cahill  9  1-5  1-4  3  1  3  
200 22-53 13-18  34  23  57  
FG  Pet.  .415.  FT  Pet.  -.722.  Team  

rebounds-4. Turnovers-26. Assists-7 (Abla 3). Technicals-none. Notre Dame (72) 
M FG-A FT-A R F P Ebben 27 3-6 0-0 0 2 6 Schueth 31 5-13 7-7 6 3 17 Botham 25 3-10 3-4 9 3 9 Gavin 27 0-2 0-0 5 0 0 Keys 28 9-17 1-5 5 1 19 Brommeland 7 2-2 0-0 0 2 4 Dougherty 11 1-2 2-2 0 1 4 Barron 4 0-0 0-0000 Kaiser 24 3-3 0-3 5 0 6 Basford 11 0-0 0-1 0 3 0 Morrison 5 2-4 3-3 1 5 7 200 28-59 16-25 31 18 72 
FG Pet. .475. FT Pet. -.640. Team rebounds -2. Turnovers -17. Assists -14 (Gavin 5). Technicals-none. 
Halftime-Notre Dame 28, Dayton 19. Offi­cials-Lisa Miller. Dave Emery. 
most singk-handedly, scoring 1 1 of the last 1 5 Irish points in the half. At intermission Keys had 1 5 points, and looked to be in for a big day. Schueth, on the 'other hand, wasn't making many pleasant memories for herself in her last home game. In 12 first-half minutes, the senior co­captain was scoreless, as were class­mates Kaiser and Dougherty. 
"I was pretty angry with myself after the first half," said Schueth, "because I knew I wasn't playing well and Iwasn't doing much to help the team. I just concentrated on going out in the second half and playing aggressively, and crashing the boards. I just wanted to get into the flow of the game." 
Things started going more accor­ding to script in the second half, as Schueth, Kaiser, and Dougherty all began to get into the flow of the game. The Irish came out ofthe lock­erroom on track, outscoring the Flyers, 12-4, over the first seven minutes to take a 40-23 lead. Schueth scored four of those points, and Kaiser's steal and breakaway layup put the finishing touches on the streak that gave the Irish some breathing room. After Dayton cut the gap to 12 points a few minutes later, Schueth (five points) and Kaiser (four points) keyed a 9-0 spurt that put the Irish back in com­mand, 49-28. Notre Dame's lead grew as large as 29 points in the second half before Dayton put on a late scoring spree to dose the gap. 
"In the first half we seemed to be affected by the emotion ofthis being the seniors' last home game, and I think that made us a little sluggish," said DiStanislao. "But I've told our players all year long that defense is what wins games, it's what puts the bread on the table. We shut Dayton down over two critical stretches, and that's what we needed to do to win. 
"Our seniors made an important contribution. Mary Beth was in foul trouble early on, but she came on well in the second half; she's always been a player that you have to con­tend with. Laura did a good job of passing, shooting, and handling the ball. and Ruth came on to give us a needed spark -her big plays iced the game for us." 
Schueth finished with 17 points and six rebounds, while Kaiser con­ributed six points, five rebounds, three assists and four steals, and Dougherty added four points and three steals. Keys led all scorers with 19 points. 
~ ATIENTION I ~ iC Class of'86 iC 
iC Tickets are now available for iC iC Junior Class Roadtrip to... iC 
• 'i*****************1 •
iC : "CATS" a iC 
• 'tc****************** •
iC in Chicago on Apr.lllth, cost is only $35! iC iC "an evening ofculture and debauchery iC iC in the Windy City" iC iC call Dan at J 787/or reservations iC 
LONG ISLAND FOR SPRING BREAK 
The L.l. Club bus still has room! 
Departs 6:15 Friday March 15 Stops in Hempstead & Islip 
Road trip only $73.00 
Call Pete 2453 or Kathleen 2905 for full details. 
GO LONG ISLAND! 
Senior Ruth Kaiser, right, came offthe bench for six points, fit'e rebounds, three assists and four steals in yesterday's 72-57 win over Dayton. The victory was Notre Dame's 11th straight at home 
SObering
Advice




ca_nsa'(e.· .. 

alife 

Q: WHICH OF THE FOLLOWING IS GUARANTEED TO CHANGE YOUR WAY OF THINKING? 
1. Studying at King's College in London 
2.Studying at Royal Holloway College in London 
3. Studying at The British Studies Centre in Canterbury 
A: ANY OF THE ABOVE 
The Institute for American Universities now offers 3 study­abroad options in Great Britain: King's College of the University of London, The Institute's British Studies Centre in Canterbury, and Royal Holloway College (also of the University of London)_ Each combines a first-rate academic programme with the opportunity to live and travel in Europe. 
For details concerning the Institute's programmes, write to us at 72 Castle Street, Canterbury CTl 2QD, England, or see your campus study-abroad advisor. 
15% Discount ~ notincluding . 
sale ttems 


N.D.-S.M.C. Students 

DIRECT DIAMOND IMPORTERS 

llniversity Park Mall and Concord & Pierre Moran Malls -Elkhart 
and clinched the North Star Conference titlefor the Irish. Larry Burke has the game wrap-up on page 16. 



The Observer Thursday, March 7, 1985-page 13 


Hockey season, careers marked by tnany ups and downs 
p.m.
--------d~~d~~----------;·=-=-=-~-=-==·=-~-=-=-=========-=-=~-------------~ 
Now before you start telling me
Sophomores and Freshmen 
how hypocritical I am supporting this kind of event after lambasting the violent behavior in sport last week, let's make two things per­fectly clear. First ofall, fighting is the object ofthis sport, unlike the exam­ples given last week. Second, and most importantly, the Bengal Bouts are for a good cause, as all the money raised goes to support the Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh. 
This is a fine charity event and al­ways a popular one with the stu­dents. There have been plenty of hard-hitting bouts in the first two rounds, and the finals promises more of the same. Come on out and see the action Friday night under the geodesic dome ofStepan Center. 
March of Dimes 
Fight Birth Defects 



The Observer/Phil Deeter 

Senior Brent Chapman became the Irish all-time leading scorer in thefinalgameofthe season, oneofthreeseniors to notch signifi­cant personal achievements on the year. Ed Domansky profiles the 1984-85 campaign in his story at right. 


MID -EASTERN VEGETARIAN 
FOODS.

• 
Vegetarian & Meat Dishes SHA \VERMA -MUGEDERA -BABA GHENOUJ 110MMUS-FELAFEL TEBBOVLI SAI.AD 

• 
LEBANESE STYLE



SOUTH BEND 
GYROS

• 
Pita Stuffed Sandwiches 

• 
Delightful Pastries • Turkish Coffee 


Tues -Sat 5:30PM -9:30PM COMPLETE CATERING FOR 
288-5639 
PARTIES & BANQUETS 838 Portage Ave 


r  NAUGL£5 24 HR. DRIVE THRU 501 Dixieway North  
Roseland 272 ­5455  
~~ k .cXJ"~  ONE REGULAR BURRITO FREE  $  

This check is worth One (1) Regular Burrito FREE with purchase ofMacho Combo Burrito. One check per visit, please. Not valid with any other promotional offer, coupons, or specials. 

Jf/~2~~. <]j)~ fflvtu 
Your Late Night Study Break Headquarters 
I: ~ 2 ~ ~ I: 0 7 0 ~ 0 ~ 0 ~ ~ B ~ su• 7 0 
EXPIRES 4/30/85 VALUE .0001 MILLS 
J 





Senior lunch at Senior Bar 
11 a.m. to 2 p.m. tomorrow 
50¢ hotdogs $1.00 hamburgers $1.50 brats and fish sandwiches 

Plus Beverages 
By ED DOMANSKY 
Sports Writer 

The 1984-85 hockey season is now history. And after the early excitement surrounding the pro­gram's return to varsity, the season itselfwas clearly marked by its share of ups and downs. 
And for Irish seniors Brent Chap­
man, Steve Ely, AI Haverkamp, Tom 
Parent, Tim Reilly and Rob Ricci -it 
was not just a season, but a career of 
ups and downs. 
It was the class of 1985 that saw 
two years of CCHA action drift into 
oblivion as the program was 
dropped to club level last season. 
They were then able to experience 
the return to varsity with the hope 
that the program is now on its way 
back to respectability. 
"It was a hard step down sopho­
more year from the CCHA," said 
Reilly. "Playing club hockey was 
definitely the worst part of my 
hockey experience. 
"This year was such a turnaround. 
It wasn't like going back to the 
CCHA, but it was such a step over 
club. We didn't win as much as we 
would have liked, but I think we 
opened a few eyes ofalumni and ad­
ministrators that we can turn this 
program around." 
"We were 11-16-1, but we knew it 
would be a rough season with the 
new level of competition," contin­
ued Ricci. "When we lost eight in a 
row (Dec. 8-Jan. 19), though, we 
never thought it would end. 
Everybody was pretty down." 
Over that stretch, Notre Dame played Lake Forest (twice), Prince­ton, Yale, Colgate, Holy Cross, Alaska-Fairbanks and Bowdoin. The losses to Yale and Colgate were in the Phoenix Mutual Hockey Classic in Hartford. The Irish lost once to Lake Forest and to Bowdoin in the Forester Classic at Lake Forest. 
At Hartford, Yale took apart a young Irish squad 10-5 in the first round. Colgate then added further misery by pounding Notre Dame, 13-4, in the consolation game. But after all was said and done, all six seniors agreed that the experience gained in Hartford was invaluable. 
"l),ven though the scores in the Phoenix didn't show it, I think it made us a better team," said Parent. "It showed us what we need to prepare for if we're ever to get Notre Dame hockey back to a regular Divi­sion I level." 
"Playing the teams that we did out 
East really helped to show people 
that Notre Dame hockey was really 
back," added Haverkamp. "Like I 
think everybody would agree, they 
weren't our best performances, but 
just being there and not giving up 
showed that we meant business." 
Varsity action returned to Notre 
Dame on a ·high note back in early 
November as the Irish skated by 
their guest Penn State by convincing 
8-2 and 10-3 scores. But it was after 
tjlat first weekend that the reality of 
varsity hockey began to hit home. 
The Irish then embarked on two 
straight weekends away from home 
where they dropped 5-4 and 6-3 
decisions to Michigan-Dearborn, fol­
lowed by 10-3 and 7-6 defeats at the 
hands of St. Thomas College in St. 
Paul, Minn. 

"Things started out rough at first," 
said Chapman. "The losses on the 
road really woke us up. But it still 
took a loss to Alaska-Anchorage and 
a split with Air Force to get us going 
again. Even through it all, everyone 
was happy to have the tougher 
schedule." 

Taking the tougher schedule into 
account, the Irish found great diffi­
culty winning away from the 
friendly confines of the ACC. In 13 
games, Notre Dame won just once 
(Marquette) and tied once 
(Alabama-Huntsville). 

Still, an encouraging factor that 
managed to shine through -road 
losses aside -was the fact that of the 
16 losses, five were by just one goal 
and five more were by three goals or 
less. 

"We have to give our freshmen 
(seven played regular roles) a lot of 
credit for the successes that we 
had," said Ely. "They came in during 
a tough transition that affected all of 
us. We as veterans were trying to get 
re-acquainted with varsity hockey, 
and this made it tough at times for us 
to try and orient them to the new 
level ofplay. 

"I know how important this type 
of guidance is from my own fresh­
man year. We had a serious crop of seniors that we looked up to like we thought we'd never be seniors. Then suddenly, we're on top and it's neat to have been able to return that same kind of help that we got." 
The season was also marked by 
significant personal achievements 
by three Irish seniors. 
It was Nov. 30, 86 games into the 
career of Rob Ricci when he finally 
scored his first collegiate goal. "I'll 
never forget that moment," he said 
with a big smile. "But then again, 
how can you forget something that 
only happens once every four 
years?" 
When Reilly picked up his 36th as­
sist of the season on Feb. 22, he 
became the leader for assists in a 
season by a right wing, overtaking 
the record set by Ian Williams 
during the 72-73 season. 
For the last game, Chapman then 
saved what was probably the 
season's most notable achievement. 
On Feb. 23, late in the third period, 
the co-captain from Agincourt, On­
tario, scored his 105th career goal 
and became the all-time leading goal 
scorer, surpassing Greg Meredith. 
Off the ice, Parent was accepted 
to medical school and Haverkamp 
was granted admission to law 
school. Reilly, Ricci and Ely are all 
engaged to be married. Chapman 
and Reilly are both hoping for admis­
sion to the Notre Dame MBA pro­
gram. 
As the season began to reach its climax, the Irish were out to end things in high style, and they did just that. Notre Dame had managed to put all of the low points aside and pull all of the season's hard work to­gether and finish with five straight wins. 
"It was great to end it like we did," said Ely. "As seniors, we just hope that this will be a positive step for years to come. 
"But just the same, as seniors, it's time for us to sit back and try to get the"full picture ofwhat hockey really meant. We have to look past this year to see where we started, where we've gone, the high and low points that seemed like life and death at the time and then try to figure out where we're at and where we're going. A lot ofthose thoughts will be personal, but many will be directed at the hope that we helped do some­thing that will bring back Irish hockey for all to enjoy.", 
Items 

continuedjrompage 16 
all the aforementioned factors, and some other assorted information, such as the relation of Venus with the north star and the colors of the mood rings of the committee mem­bers. The best thing for the Irish to do right now is just worry about defeating Dayton, and that's what Digger Phelps will be emphasizing this week. To some extent, the Irish control their own destiny, and if Notre Dame gets its win, the rest will fall into place on Sunday. 
Pick ofthe Week .. Most of the action this week has not been at the ACC, but at Stepan Center where the Bengal Bouts are being held. The finals of the 55th annual campus event will take place Friday night, with the first bout beginning at 7:30 
r-------------------------------------------~----~.---~--------------­
The Observer 


Irish 
continuedfrom page 16 
in and sank a I()-foot jumper making 
it 62-'58, Irish, with 2: 16left. 
Notre Dame point guard David 
Rivers drove the lane and lost pos­
session -jump ball, alternate posses­
sion going to Marquette. 
Kenny Barlow then fouled 
Trotter, and the Marquette junior hit 
both ends of a one-and-one, making 
it a two-point game, 62-60. 
David Rivers took it to the paint for the Irish on the next possession and was fouled, but he missed the front end of the one-and-one. Mar­quette now had the ball with I:02 and a chance to tie the game. 
After running the clock down to 
I .3 seconds, Trotter got the green light and drove the lane for a layup, but missed it. 
"We wanted to get a good shot," said Majerus. "We called the play and Trotter took the shot. We just wanted to get a good shot; then the 


Ken1pton 
continuedfrom page 16 
with 2:28 gone to give the Irish a 4-0 lead, Kempton asserted himself. But a key moment came with S:3S left, when he fouled Copa after Mar­quette had come back to take a 20­19 lead on the Irish. Copa did not take kindly to the way in which the foul was delivered, and a bit of a 
scuffle followed between the two. 
It seemed to be just the spark 
Kempton needed to get going. 
"(Marquette) was a tough team, a very physical team," he said. "But we matched up well height-wise, and I was just glad they let us play. We were able to muscle them inside, and that's my kind ofgame." 
As the first half wound down, strong play by Kempton inside against sudden enemy Copa helped the Irish move out to a 33-Z6lead. 
And when the buzzer sounded· for the beginning of the second half, he did not disappoint anyone. Two jumpers from the free-throw line 
• 
score's tied and they have to take a timeout. We accomplished our ob­jective. We got a layup, but we missed it." Marquette center Wal­ter Downing fouled Royal as the ball rolled off the rim. Royal was ice, hit­ting both ends of a one-and-one making it 64-60. 
The rest was icing on the cake as 
Rivers went coast-to-coast and semi­
dunked the ball as time ran out. 
It was the number of trips to the line that made the difference. Mar­quette only found its way to the charity strip 21 times, while Phelps' Irish took 42 foul shots. 
Our offense was our foul shoot­ing," said Phelps, "and we try to do that to teams we can get inside on. At the end of the game we just missed our foul shots; that's how Marquette got back in it. That's not like Duff to miss two, and Royal was shooting so well he was due to miss." 
Whereas, Phelps was pleased with the .32 free throws made, Majerus wasn't quite so pleased with the free throw differential. He apoarentlv 
and a great deal of hustle within the first seven minutes helped Notre Dame increase its lead to I0 points. 
A strong drive to the basket with 
I I:26 left in the half led to two foul shots, both of which he converted. 
The most surprising event of the evening transpired with 4:40 left in the game, with the Irish clinging to an eight-point lead. Unable to get the ball into anyone else's hands due to the Warriors' quick press, Kempton quickly proceeded to turn himself into a 6-9 guard and bring the ball upcourt himself. 
And throughout all of it, he con­tinuously frustrated Downing and Copa inside with his strong defense. 
But perhaps the most pleasing moment of the game for Kempton came when he took a seat on the bench in favor ofJim Dolan midway through the second half, as he heard cheers from the Irish fans for the first time in recent memory. 
"It has hurt a little bit to hear the fans when they get down on me, es­pecially the home fans," said Kempton. "But I know I just have to perform :well. It's just a matter of 

Budweiser 1/2bbl Little Kings 1/2bbl Hamms 1/2bbl 
Budweiser Quarts 
Order your Green Kegs NOW! (deposit required) 
was disgusted at the officiating most 
of the game, but declined to talk 
about it. Instead, he alluded to some 
of the home-town calls. 
"I'm not going to comment on the officiating," said Majerus. "But they shot 42 foul shots to our 21. It's hard to believe a guy shot 18 foul shots and only took three shots." 
Majerus was referring to Royal, who went 0-3 from the t1eld, but connected on I '5 of 18 from the line. The sophomore also pulled down I'5 boards for the game. 

Box Score 

on page 10 
"The stats are misleading," Phelps said. "We only got six field goals and 12 shots because we were on the foul line the whole second half. With 
1.3 minutes to go we're already in the bonus. The rebounding margin is our game (the Irish had a 34-2.3 margin). Rebound and pound it inside, if we score, we score; if not, we go to the foul line." 
playing through it, and getting the 
fans back on your side. 
"I was happy with the game," he 
continued. "It gives me confidence 
as we enter the post-season. I've just 
been thinking about my game too 
much, and maybe I lost some of my 
confidence. I was glad to have a 
game like this. 
"Coach Phelps does a lot for hi~ players that most people don't realize. He and the coaching staff really were trying to pump me up when I was down. And they really helped me out a lot. I just want to play my best for them, and that's what I set out to do each game." 
"Timmy did a lot ofpositive things at both ends of the floor tonight," said Phelps. "That's why I've always believed in him. I always try to keep­him pumped up, even though he goes through some negatives sometimes as far as the fan reaction goes. 
"I just was very, very happy to fi­nally see him play the way he played tonight." 
So were most of the fans. 
$32.99 31.99 27.99 $9.99 

Thursday, March 7, 1985 -page 14 
Majerus wanted to keep his squad out of foul trouble, but the early bonus situation reflected Mar­quette's inability to do that. Three Warriors fouled out, and with a thin bench and Tony Reeder injured, if another person fouled out Majerus would really have had problems. 
"We didn't have anyone else to substitute," said Majerus, "if we lost another guy on fouls." 
Kempton had a good perfor­mance, hitting all four of his shots from the field and connecting on '5 of 7 from the line for 13 points. Rivers had a typically exciting per­formance, but he also kept his ex­high school teammate Johnson running in circles much of the night. Johnson had I Z points for the War­riors, whi.le Rivers connected for 20. Barlow never really got in the groove and only took five shots for the game. That had Phelps worried. 
"Barlow has to be a threat on Sat­urday (against Dayton). He needs to get more active on the offensive boards and more active in looking for a shot. He'll get back into it before its over." 
Barlow was far from his I '5.4 points per game; the junior con­nected on only two field goals and four foul shots for eight points. 
This victory should help Notre Dame's chances for an NCAA bid. But don't ask Phelps about it -it's a touchy subject. 
'Tm not making any comments about the NCAA tournament," said Phelps. 'Til leave that up to the com­mittee. We're very happy to have 19 wins at this stage of the season and we can make it 20 Saturday. We're just thinking about Dayton." 
Thank God for free throws or it would be 18 wins. 








Senior Formal 
TUXEDO SPECIAL 
Classic Black Tuxedo 
Regularly 544°0 
38.00 
General Stock of Tuxedos and Tails 
Regularly 546°0-55!D0 
42.50 

Evan Picone 
Designer Collection 

Regularly 55750 
47.50 
FIRST CHOICE, GUARANTEED 
Tuxedo Fittings at LaFortune Student Center 4:00-6:00 pm TODAY! 




·trertS
~"W Wo•Oo~oo.Mod" 
'''"'""' •s Scottsdale MalliMon.-Sat 10-9/Sun 12-5 
Umversily Park•Mon.-Sat 10-9-·Sun 12-5:30 


~Tf> Custom-designed ~Imprinted Sportswear T -shirts * Pullovers * Sweatshirts Polos * Sweaters * More SE corner of LaFortune Basement (Below the Deli) OPEN MWF 2:30-4:30 TT 3:30-5:30 (Formerly the N.D. T-Shirt Shop) 239-5157  TU!I~~,. $AYI • a'mea~N' ••N•~•~ ~~~ Better Prices than that 11ather stare" an campus Schaal supplies * Health & Beauty needs 2nd Flaar LaFartune Dpen Man-Fri. :a ­7 p.m  

T0 day_______T_h_u_r_sd_a_r_.M_ar_c_h_7_,-19_s_s__p_a_g_e_1~5 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 

Zeto 
WElL Z£TO, BEAV 
SURE SEEMS TO BE THE RAGE 
Kevin Walsh 






Bloom County Berke Breathed Gary Larson
The Far Side 
~5 1 Yl5, 
111Af/Ydfl/1M1lJI
\ . 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 36 --pro nobis 63 Tetched 12 Scratch out 37 Fast plane 64 Thorny flower 15 Scream
1 Leave the job 38 Total: abbr. 65 Holiday log 19 Most senior 5 Talent 39 John -Passos 66 Where Greek 21 Epoch9 Mast 40 More serene met-Greek 24 Pair13 Ravel 42 Eng.bar
14 Pacify 
DOWN 25 lt. statesman 43 Curved molding 26 Of a time 16 Diva's song 
44 -Island, NY segment17 Sun disk 
1Bog
45 Imprecise 27 "-comes back18 Animal 2 "Do-others"condition 
tome..."

attendants 
3 Think tank 20 Chin adornment 47 Err output 28 Baseballer Mel 
22 Oval 4 Type of annu·
49 Attorney's 30 Court figure 23 NYC subway concern itysystem 

31 Amerinds 50 In that place 
24 Diacritical 5 Geographical 32 Positive 
mark dictionary answers 25 Nicholson film 
53 Eastern region 57 Representing 6 Workers' grp. 35 Hospital 29 Take plea· two factions 7 Ziegfeld vehicle 
sure in 60 Dollars for 8 Give shelter 37 Wag 33 Memory quarters 9 Wise 38 Precedes Sept. 34 Ike's command 61 "Thanks-!" 10 Kind of school 41 Grade 35 Shrewd 62 Garret 11 Tunes incorrectly 42 Salary 52 Grand poetry 
43 -and upwards 54 Flogged 45 Egotism 55 Computer data 46 Jug handle 56"-boy!" 48 "Educating -" 58 Erwin of old 
50 Ski lift films 51 Hawaiian town 59 Besickly 

317/85 



©1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. • All Rights Reserved 3/7/85 

Campus 
•12:
10 p.m. · Presentation, "Perspectives on Non-Violence," Manmohan Choudhuri, Chairman oflndia's National People's Committee, Brown Bag Lunch, CSC Coffeehouse. 

•3:30 
p.m. -Tennis, NO Women vs. Louisville, Courtney Courts. 

•
3:30-5 p.m. -Holocaust Fllm Series, "Nazi Con­centration Camps," Sponsored by SMC Depart· ment of Modern Languages, Carroll Hall (SMC). 

•4 
p.m. -Meeting, To Discuss Plans for Calybre, Room 11 Holy Cross (SMC). 

•4 
-5 p.m. · Senior Formal Tuxedo Fittings, LaFortune. 

•4 
p.m. -Seminar, "Reactivity of Photosynthetic Pigments in Micellar Medium," Dr. J.P. Chauvet, NO, Conference Theatre, Radiation Laboratory. 

•4:30 
p.m. · Mathematical Colloquium, "Deficient Values and Deficient Functions," Prof. Lo Yang, Princeton, Room 226 CCMB. 

•4:30 
p.m. · Lecture, "Military Tax Resistance · What It Is and How To Do It," Dr. Peter Smith, SMC, CSC Resource Room. 

•7 
p.m.-Presentation, "Perspectives in Human Tyranny," Haider Raz;t, Whose Father is a Prisoner of Conscience in Pakistan, LaFortune Little Theater. 

•
7 p.m. -Student/Faculty Lecture, "On Behalfof Christian Philosophy," Prof. Mark Jordan, NO, Li­brary Lounge. 

•
7 p.m. -Thursday Night FUm Series, "Gentleman's Agreement," O'Shaughnessy Hall Loft. 

•7, 
9 & 11 p.m.· Fllm, "To Catch A Thief," Engi· neering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activi­ties Board, S1. 

•7-9:30p.m.· 
Fllm, "Wuthering Heights," Carroll Hall (SMC), Sponsored by SMC's English Depart· ment. 

•7 
p.m. -Movie, "The Law School Experience," CCE Basement, Sponsored by NO Pre-Law Society. 

•7:30 
p.m.-FUm, "A Man For All Seasons," Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Thomas More Society of Notre Dame. 

•7:30 
p.m. · Colloquium, "Highlife Comes To Town: Modern Trends in Ghanian Songs," Prof. Owusu Brempong, Indiana Uni.versity, CSC Cof­feehouse. 

•7:30 
p.m. · Lecture, "Color," Carol Ann Carter, SMC, Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by Friends ofthe Snite Museum. 

•7:30 
p.m.· Informational Meeting, Cairo Pro­gram, Room 242 O'Shaughnessy, All Are Welcome. 

•7:45 
p.m.-Meeting, Fellowship of Christian Ath­letes, CSC, Everyone Welcome. 

•8 
p.m. -Dramatic Production, "Electra," Wash­ington Hall, Sponsored by Notre Dame/St. Mary's Theatre, 52.50. 

•9 
p.m. -Informational Meeting, For Those In­terested in Student Activities Board Ft. Lauderdale or Dayton Beach Trip, Little Theater, LaFortune. 

•9 
· 11 p.m. · Sophomore Twister Study Break, Free Refreshments, Music, Play Twister, Haggar Center (SMC), Sponsored by Sophomore Advisory Council, Free. 



Thursday, March 7, 1985 -page 16


S~orts 
Irish hold off Warriors for important 66-60 win 
Royal, Kempton keep hopes alive for NCAA Tournament 
ByJOE BRUNEm 

Sports Writer 
Luckily, for Digger Phelps, his players made it to the foul line -of­ten. If they hadn't, they wouldn't 'have their I9th win. The 66-60 win over Marquelte was much needed, and the Irish escaped, by the skin of their teeth, because ofrepeated trips to the line. 
The win wasn't pretty, but Phelps didn't really care. As far as he is con· cerned, a win is a win. 
"Going into tonight's game, we looked to do two things," Phelps commented after the game. "We wanted to extend our defense and pound the ball inside and get to the foul line. We did a good job with that, and we figured that that strat· egy played our strength against their weakness. 
"All you want to do is win the game. It's our 19th win and it means we swept Marquette. I would have been happy to win this game by one." 
Well, Phelps' squad almost only did win by one. The six-point margin doesn't reflect what a tight game it really was down the stretch. 
After two Donald Royal free throws opened a 62-52 Notre Dame margin with 2:52 left in the game, Marquette guard MandyJohnson hit a 12-footer from the right side to narrow the margin to eight with 2:37left. 
Dan Duff then missed the first shot 
of a one-and-one for the Irish. Mar· 
queue, gaining some steam, 
narrowed the margin to six when 

forward Kerry Trotter, who had a game-high 23 points, hit a field goal in the lane. Tim Kempton tried to in­bound the ball, but good coverage prevented that, and the Irish were called for five seconds · Marquette ball. Then things got hairy. 
After Marquelte coach Rick Majerus called time, Johnson came 
see IRISH, page 14 


Kempton silences his critics with year's best performance 

By ERIC SCHEUERMANN 
Sports Writer 
Throughout the year, Notre Dame center Tim Kempton has not had many opportunities to smile. But after a strong performance in last night's game that helped lead the Irish to victory over the scrappy Marquette Warriors, it was a differ­ent story. 
"I thought I played tonight," said 
Kempton. "I thought it was probably 
my best game of the year." 

Many Irish fans would most likely agree, fans who have suffered through a few games in which Kempton did almost nothing right. 
But last night, except for being called for traveling twice, it seemed as if Kempton did nothing wrong. He collected 13 points on 4-for-4 from the field and 5-for-7 from the free throw line. He pulled down four rebounds. And, perhaps most impor­tant, he played a key role in holding Walter Downing and Tom Copa, Marquette's big men inside, to a total of 16 points. 
"We wanted to pound the ball inside," said Irish head coach Digger Phelps after the game. "That was our objective. We thought it was a weak­ness for Marquette defensively, and a strength for us offensively. And Kempton helped us do that. 
''I'll tell you," continued Phelps, "I think he silenced a lot ofpeople with the game he played. That's what people don't understand. He is very valuable to our basketball team." 
Not many people would have agreed with Phelps before last night's game, and maybe many still do notagree. But no one can deny that Kempton's presence played a major role in the Irish victory last night. 
From the beginning, starting with a six-foot jumper from the baseline 
see KEMPTON, page 14 

Center Tim Kempton played what he called his "best game of the season" in Notre Dame's 66-60 triumph over Marquette last night, scoring 13 points and dominating the Warriors' big men inside. The victory earned the Irish a 19-8 record and kept strong their hopes for receiving an invita· lion to the NC4A post-season tournament. joe Brunetti has the game story at left. 

Women dismantle Dayton, 72-57, to wrap up North Star Conference 
By LARRY BURKE 

Sports Writer 
It's been quite a while since anyone besides a member of the maintenance crew cut down a net in the ACC, but the Notre Dame wo· men's basketball team had that plea· sure yesterday evening following its 72·57 win over Dayton. The victory clinched the North Star Conference title for the Irish, and boosted their record to 19·8 overall, 12-1 in the conference. 
Yesterday's game was another episode in Notre Dame's current torrid streak that has resulted in the dismantling of North Star oppo­nents. The Irish have now won 1 I straight NSC games, and 1 4 of their last 16 contests overall. The victory was also Notre Dame's I I th straight at the ACC, where ND has not lost since its home opener on Nov. 26. 
In addition to clinching the North Star championship, the win also pro­vided a fitting tribute to Irish seniors Mary Beth Schueth, Ruth Kaiser, and Laura Dougherty, who made their final ACC appearances yesterday. 
"Winning the conference title means a lot to this team," said Schueth. "It's been a long time since I helped cut down a net, and it's great feeling. We started this season with two goals · to win the confer· ence championship and to get into a post-season tournament. Today we accomplished one of those goals, 
and we'll see about the other one." 
see WOMEN, page 12 



Road to NCAAs is paved with complications 
Hello again, everybody! 

It has been a long and winding road for the I984-85 Notre Dame basketball team up to this point. The Irish have mixed flashes ofbrilliance with moments ofineptitude to conjure a 19-H record. However, this is the week when Notre Dame finds out whether all its hard work since that first day of practice way back in October will be rewarded with an NCAA' berth or if it will go for naught. Sunday is the day when the NCAA tournament committee will answer the.64-team question and fill the championship brackets. 
Notre Dame, along with Dayton, DePaul and Marquette, is hoping to be included in the NCAA's "Declaration of In· dependents" who make the field. It won't be an easy task for the Irish, who have rallied from an upset a week ago (the Butler did it) to give Digger Phelps his 300th and 301st career coaching wins with victories over Washington and Marquette. 
Nevertheless, the Irish tourney hopes are still a question­able entity. Notre Dame could still get 20 wins and make the NCAA with a triumph this weekend over Dayton. A victory over this top-flight independent would certainly help the Irish cause, but a loss niay be enough to knock the Irish into that group of teams classified as NIT (Not in Tournament) bound. It's a narrow path that Phelps' squad must follow and one complicated by several factors. Let's take a look at them, shall we? 
First ofall, the other independents have to be considered. DePaul has an 19-H overall mark, a 3·2 record in round-robin 

Chuck Freeby 
Irish Items 
play, and a 2-0 ledger vs. Notre Dame. The Blue Demons have their only remaining game (Marquette) on the road, a place where they have not been strong this year. Still, after completely dominating Marquette in Chicago last Saturday, it looks like DePaul could have 20 wins by the end of the week, and that will be enough to getJoey Meyer's club in the tournament. 
Dayton currently stands at 19·8, with Notre Dame the only opponent left on the schedule. The Flyers are 3·2 in round-robin play, but lost to Notre Dame inJanuary. Should Don Donoher's squad win on Saturday, it would virtually be assured an NCAA berth due to having the best round-robin record of the independents. However, a loss to the Irish may not keep the Flyers out, thanks to their two wins over DePaul. Thus, it would certainly appear that Dayton is in the driver's seat. 
Marquette is in the worst predicament of any of the big four independents. The Warriors are now 17-10 overall, 1-4 in round-robin play, and have lost both of their games with the Irish. The Warriors.were in a must-win situation in both their games this week, but with last night's loss it appears the only way Marquette will get in the tournament is ifthe selec­tion committee is heavily intoxicated. 
Got it so far? Well, hang on, bec;:ause adding to the com­plexity ofNotre Dame's situation are this week's post-season conference tournaments. The Irish wouldn't mind seeing teams like St.John's and North Carolina win their respective tourneys this week, because those teams are going to the NCAA tournament anyway. What the Irish don't need is for an upstart like Clemson or Connecticut to win the confer­ence tourney and claim an automatic bid. That would force the selection committee to award one ofits precious at-large spots to a more deserving team, and lessen Notre Dame's chances of making the field. 
Now add a degree of difficulty factor with Notre Dame's game at Dayton on Saturday. The Irish beat the Flyers at home earlier this year, but don't expect the Irish to get the same kind of breaks from the officials on the road that they got in that game. Plus, the Irish have to go to the UD Arena, a place where they have lost six times in eight tries, and beat a good Dayton squad for the second time this season. To say it won't be an easy task would be a gross understatement. 
Confused as to what all this means? Well, basically it means if the Irish win on Saturday, they will probably make the NCAA tournament. On the other hand, if the Irish lose, they might make the tournament depending on the result of 
see ITEMS, page 13 






