r------------­
Senate restructuring -page 4 


South African police open fire into crowd; 1 killed, 10 wounded 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa ­Police fired rubber bullets and tear g'\S into a crowd of blacks leaving a funeral yesterday near the southern city ofPort Elizabeth. Witnesses said one man was killed and I 0 people were wounded. 
Police Lt. Henry Beck said at na­tional headquarters in Pretoria that police used "rubber bullets, tear gas and shotguns" in ·Zwide black township. He said he knew of no casualties. 
But, witnesses said a 28-year-old 
man was killed. 
Several black reporters and other witnesses said a crowd of un­determined size left the funeral, which was held for blacks slain in recent violence. They were walking to the township bus terminal when police in armored personnel carri­ers opened fire. 
"There were some incidents of stone-throwing by the crowd . . . One youngster picked up a tear gas cannister and threw it back at police," said one ofthe reporters. He asked not to be identified because as a journalist, he is bannedfrom enter­ing the townships. 
The identity of the man reported 
killed was not known, nor was the 
seriousness of the reported injuries. 
Hospitals in the area said they did 
not treat any victims, but blacks 
injured in riots generallyshun hospi­
tals for fear ofbeing arrested. 
Four people, including a 9-year­old boy, were buried in the Zwide funeral. They perished in clashes with police, and in attacks by blacks against other blacks accused of fronting for the white-minority gov­ernment. 
Six miles inland, two riot victims were buried without incident outside the town of Uitenhage as hundreds of police and army troops stood by, according to police and witnesses. 
On March 2 1 , police shot and 
killed 19 blacks near Uitenhage, 
charging their demonstration had 
turned violent. Black witnesses 
denied a police account which said 
demonstrators were armed with 
stones and weapons, and said police 
attacked without justification. 
Soldiers and police manned key 
intersections near the Zwide 
township and Uitenhage funerals, 
witnesses said. In Uitenhage, civilian 
police reservists with shotguns lined 
the streets as vehicles ferried blacks 
from the burial area through a three­
block white section to a black slum. 
Police have frequently called out 
the military following a nationwide 
outburst of anti-apartheid rioting in 
black communities eight months 
ago. More than 250 people have 
been killed since last summer by un­
official count. 
Funerals of riot victims, attended 
by thousands of mourners, may 
touch off more violence. 
Police guarded government 
buildings in Uitenhage and threw up 
a roadblock on the main highway 
linking the area with Port Elizabeth, ·residents said. The four-lane high­way brushes against several im­poverished black areas, where white motorists have occasionally been stoned. 

The Palm Sunday liturgy was a special live br()(ld­cast by NBC. The mass was the first ever telecast nationally from the University's 19th century got­hic church. 


Visiting professors exchange views on child education and instruction 
By BUD LUEPKE 
StaffReporter 
The development of moral values in children was one issue addressed in a debate Fridayat the Notre Dame Law School. 
'Ibe education ofchildren was the 
topic of discussion between Profes­
sorJohn Coons of Princeton Univer­
sity and Professor Amy Gutmann of 
the University of California at 
Berkeley. 
The debate also focused on the 
manner in which children should be taught a tolerance of the beliefs of Coons is an advocate of educa­others. tional vouchers, which involve a 
Coons, an author of numerous government gift to eachfamily in the books including "Education by form of money. The family would Choice," argued that parents should use this money to send their be allowed to choose the school children to the school of their they want their children to attend. choice. Coons said an information He said parents can best recognize system could be set up to aidparents the educational requirements of in choosing schools. Such a system their children, and they are best would give parents more participa­qualified to choose a curriculum for tion in the education of their their children. "Judgments made by children. human persons are better than judg­According to Coons, parents who 
ments made by random selection," 
see SENATE, page 3
he said. 


Student Senate to vote tonight on restructuring proposal 
ByAMYBAKER 
News Staff 
The Student Senate tonight will vote on the proposed restructuring of the student government constitu­tion. 
The student officers-elect were scheduled to take office today, but because of the proposed changes, the I 984-SS senate voted to extend their terms ofoffice until April 1 5. 
"We were elected to a position that's not there anymore -that's ab­surd. The present senate changed the position and extended their time in office, which is an abuse ofauthor­ity, nothing new for this senate," said Jim Hagan, district 5 senator-elect. 
"There were a million dilferent is­sues to address and the senators just didn't do it," said Hagan. 
"A restructuring is not necessarily needed. What's needed is a better in­strument of communication be­tween the senate and administration and better people," he said. 
Chris Abood, district 1 senator­elect, favors implementing the pro­posal for the 1985-86 school year, but said the senate should have com­pleted the restructuring before April 1 , rather than extending their terms for two weeks. 
"It takes about two weeks to hold an election, but the Student Senate wants to try and rush it through in a week, before the new constitution which provides for the new senators is even written," said Abood. 
Hagan said, "The whole restruc­turing should not have been taken up this late and has gone much too quickly. It should have been left up to us, the new senators. This action sets a trend, and student govern­ment can't be taken seriously if this type ofabuse continues." 
"The restructuring is a good idea and is well intended, but too rushed. There should be a transition year for 
the  restructuring."  said  Steve  
Taeyaerts,  special  projects  ex­ 
change coordinator.  

The proposed changes include electing a student"senator from each dorm, as well as one off-campus senator, removing the voting privileges of the student body trea­surer, Student Activities Board manager, Hall Presidents' Council chairman, judicial coordinator, class presidents, Freshman Advisory Council president, and three HPC members on the senate. 
The voting members· would in­clude the student body president in the case of a tie, the student body vice president, and the 25 elected members of the student senate, ac­cording toJim Domagalski, member of the senate restructuring commit­tee. 
As a procedural change, the stu­dent body president would be able to veto aproposal ofthe senate, but a two-thirds majority could override the veto, according to Domagalski. 
The proposed changes, if passed, will take effect for the 1985-86 school year. This means that the five senators-elect will no longer have the same positions in student gov­ernment as they understood them to exist when they were elected. The principal reason for the proposed change in the set-up of student senators is so that the senators can better represent the. people who elect them, said Domagalski. _ 
In the past, the appointed mem­bers of the president's cabinet were doing the work that should have been done by the senators. Therefore, the senators were unable to meet students needs, according to Domagalski. 
"The restructuring is a reaction to the senate's inactivity in the past. They felt that the inactivity and abuse of power weren't the fault of the senate, but the fault of the constitution, so they have decided to restructure it," said Taeyaerts. 
"The senate keeps playing fast and loose with the rules," said John Ginty, district 3 senator-elect. 
The senators-elect, under the new proposal, will automatically represent their own dorms. "It's logical for the senators-elect to represent their respective dorms, since all of them carried their own dorms,"said Taeyaerts. 
If the proposal is passed, each dorm will be represented equally with one vote in the senate, regard­less of the dorm's size. 
"The idea ofdistrict senators is a little weak, but there will still be a problem with dorm representa-tion because of the numbers in­volved," said Taeyaerts. "Howard Hall will get the same amount of money allocated to it by the senate as Flanner Hall, even though there are four times as many guys in Flanner," he said. 
Proposed structural changes  
Current Senate -----­Voting Members Student Body Vice President Treasurer, Student Activities Board Manager, Hall President's Council President, Three HPC members, Judicial Coordinator, Sophomore, Junior, and Senior class presidents, Freshman Advisory Council President, Five district senators, Student Body President (only in case of tie) Non-voting Members Four Executive Coordinators, Parlamentarian, Secratary of the Senate Total: 6 non-voting members, 17 voting members -----­Proposed Senate-----­Voting Members Student Body Vice President, 24 Dorm Senators, One Off­Campus Senator, Student Body President (only in case of tie) Non-voting Members Treasurer. Parlamentarian, Secratary of the Senate Total : 3 non-voting members, 26 voting members  

see EDUCATION, page 3 

i 
I 
1 
I 
i 
I 

The Observer Monday, Aprill, 1985-page 2 


A cartoonist's guide to the Inside column 

In Brief . 
At the Palm Sunday Mass yesterday in Sacred Heart Church, which was broadcast nationwide by the National Broadcasting Company, University President Father Theodore Hes­burgh's homily may have been a little too long. The homily, which was about the meaning of Holy Week, lasted 9 minutes, 30 seconds. Only 4 minutes had been allotted in the broadcast schedule. As a result, the broadcast was cut off in mid-Communion and replaced with a discussion ofNazi Germany on the program, "Campus View."­
The Obseroer 

Lights out, uh huh.That was the case at both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's yesterday, when a tree fell across some power lines, causing electricity at both schools to be cut off. The power outage, occuring at about 6 p.m., lasted only a few minutes at Notre Dame, and approximately an hour at Saint Mary's. -The Obseroer 
Professional wrestling body slammed its way to the peak ofchic yesterday, squeezing the likes ofLiberace, Billy Mar­tin, singer Cyndi Lauper, TV's Mr. T and Muhammad Ali into its new­found hammerlock on hype. The ballyhooed event was "Wrestlemania," an extravaganza ofhead-bashing at Madison Square Garden, which was broadcast via satellite to Stepan Center. Topping the card was the grudge tag-team match pitting Hulk Hogan and Mr. T oftelevision's "A team" -in his first professional wrestling perfor­mance -against Rowdy Roddy Piper and Paul "Mr. Wonderful" Orndorff. "It's rough out there," panted television's Mr. T, who joined good-guy wrestling champion Hogan in stomping two heels in a tag-team grudge match. "It's not for no wimps, wrasslin'." Pianist Uberace, timekeeper for the main event, arrived in a full-length fox coat. Hogan posed for photographs with referee Ali, dwarfing the 
former boxing champion. -AP 
An inmate'S clean living during six years as an escapee so impressed the Florida Parole and Probation Commissioners that they have changed his release date from 1988 to this summer. "This to me was a meritorious case," commissioner Judith Wolson said Friday in Miami. James Hendry was imprisoned in 1976 on a 10-year sentence for aggravated battery with a firearm. After becoming a trusty at the Cross City prison, he walked away in 1978. Hendry headed to Oklahoma City, where he worked, paid taxes, and opened his own salvage business. Later, after being erroneously told by a relative he was no longer wanted, he moved to Perry, Fla., and turned himself in when he learned he was still being sought. -AP 
Of Interest 
Carl Anderson,special assistant to the president of the 
U.S. for family policy, will give a lecture titled "Legislative and Judi­cial Decline of the Family Unit -A Short Path to Poverty" today at noon in Room I 0 I of the Law School. The presentation is sponsored by the Thomas ). White Center on Law and Government. · The Obseroer 

Weather 
:.. II 
0

April fool's joke? No. .~;.~r 
there is a SO percent chance ofsnow showers today. High in the middle and upper 30s and windy. Clearing with a 20 percent chance of snow 0 '• showers tonight. Low in the middle and upper 20s. Sunny and warmer tomorrow with high in the middle 40s. -AP 
Design Editor.. ...... Hoop Boop Bee Doop lJeslgtJ Assistatlt .............. Hetty Boop Layout Staff... . ....... Billy Clyde Tuttle Typesetters... .. .... Sic Guarino
The Observer 
Mate( Tea) Queen 

News Editor...... Ralph the Wonder Lizard The Observer ( IJSPS S99 .l-4000) is Cop;• Editor... ..................................... Err lck puhllshcd Monday through Friday and Sports Copy Editor ............. 'The Birk and a on ltomc foothall ~aturdays, except Couple Duel.:.' during exam and vacation periods. The Sports .\pecla/ Layout.............. RASTA dog Observer is puhlishcd hy the students of Vieupoint Copy Editor .. lbc Flying Wal· the University of Notre Dame and Saint len<bs 
Mary's ColleJ.:e. Suhscriptions may he Vieupoint Layout ...................)oe Murphy purchased for SW per year ( S20 per se· Features Copy Editor. ....... !kin Spel mestcr) hy writing The Observer, P.O. 
Road Warrior MAX Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. N/J Day Edltm· ....................... Aimee Sturin 
The Observer is a memher of The SMC Day Editor........................... Tess Bahy Associated Press. All reproduction Ad Design ....................... Mary Carol Carol rights arc reserved Photographer... . ....... Indecent Exposure 
1. 
Register for the 85-86 Academic Year 

2. 
Request Student Activity funding 

3. 
Apply for a Football concession stand 


All forms are available in the Student Activi­ties Office, 1st floor of LaFortune. Deadline is Monday, April 15, 1985. 

,........i~~-~~·;~..H·~·i~ ...~ 
(~ .-Styling 

531 N. Michigan St., 1&1' Phone 233-4957 IQi 
....................................................w. 
Ha! It's finally my chance to write the inside column. As the cartoonist for this page for over a year now, I've acquired a keen skill for picking out the really good arti­cles from the bad. 
It's simple. The good ones are easy to draw for; the bad ones aren't. 
How can you tell if it's going to be a column worth reading? Simply look at the cartoon. If it looks neatly drawn, has action, good composition, contrast, and maybe a clever idea worked into it, then chances are it will be an enjoyable piece of journalism. 
But, if the cartoon looks sketchy, disorganized, or simply doesn't make sense, you should pass on this one. Another way to tell a good article from a bad one is to recognize the different kinds ofauthors. 
•The editor-in-chief: This author will always provide a meaningful bit ofopinion writing, often with a twist that makes it more personal to the reader. The editor-in­chief knows that his or her name and position will ap­pear at the top of this 

Mark Weimholt 
Cartoonist 
it was the elections. These writers simply don't know when enough is enough. 
•Administration 
Abhoration: Look out, Ted! Frustrated with writer's block, these people release their anger by attacking the dome. From admissions policy to com­mencement speakers, they will find something wrong, and then find a way to blame it on the administration. 

•Anthropomorphatum: 
These are my favorite writers. They write with enthusiasm and imagery, lending their columns to flying doughr:uts, walking alarm clocks, or a 


bulging LaFortune Student 

column, and that everyone 
Center. With an article like will read it with scrutiny. No this, I can be out of here in dining hall articles here. halfan hour. This will be a well Actually, the categories researched or at least rele­could go on and on. Each vant editorial. David Dzied­writer contributes a unique zic wrote excellent columns perception of life at Notre last year. So has Bob Vonder­Dame and Saint Mary's. Be­
heide this year. Sarah Hamil­cause I'm probably the only ton, who will be the one who reads every one of editor-in-chief next year, these columns, I can say that continues the tradition. I have benefitted from this (Hamilton even shows vast resource of student promise in the area of car­opinion. 
tooning, as shown on this But, if you're in a hurry at page-) lunch time, check out the 
•The Baffler: This writer's cartoon. And if it looks like it 
specialty is to choose a topic was drawn by someone with so intangible or abstract that a hangover, you've been it creates a visual block in warned. 


the artist's mind. The average column takes an hour to illustrate. That includes reading the column each night, brainstorming for ideas, making a sketch, and finally in­king it in. But, an idea for the Baffler's column can take as long as two hours. A walk to the Memorial Library usually is required to research some obscure politician's face, or several captions are needed to ex­plain the meaning ofthe column. 
•Trivial 
Nauseatum: This breed ofauthors likes to take a mediocre subject and blow it into gigantic proportions. Take the dining halls. How often do we have to hear how bad they are? We should, however, give these aut­hors credit for the variety of angles they come up with to attack the same subject. 

•
Repetitious Repetatium: These column writers are simply redundant. They say the same thing about the same subject over and over. They repeat themselves. They're redundant. They take a subject and beat it into the ground. Last year it was the alcohol policy. This year 


Easter Special! Fresh Flower Bouquets $4'' 
Specializing in Fresh Flowers and Plants We wire flowers anywhere Notre Dame & St. Mary's students charges Silk Flowers • Gifts • Cards • Plants 935 S. Ironwood South Bend 232-9997 
How you live may save your life. 
.AMERICAN
I
~CANCER
fSOCIElY® 
............................. 


ClubsI Organizations 
Now is the time for all ClubsI Organizations to: 

The Observer 


Education 
continuedfrom page 1 
are allowed more involvement in the education of their children are more tolerant of their society. He said, "The society allows full expres­sion of ideas. People enjoy plurality." 
Coons also said it was in the best 
interest ofchildren to have their par· 
ents, not society, decide their educa· 
tion. 
"Parents are the greatest source of 
their own children's liberty," said 
Coons. 
Gutmann, a professor of politics, countered with several arguments. She said tolerance would not be nurtured under Coon's method of education. Instead, she said, parents would send their children to the schools that were most in conform­ity to their own beliefs. "All the prejudices of Protestant parents would continue to be instilled in their children," she said. In this way, she said, "Democratic citizens can abuse their public authority." 
Gutmann also appealed to the right of the individual child. She asked Coons, "Aren't children dem· ocratic citizens?" Gutmann argued that children should not be consid­ered merely an extension of their parents, but should be allowed to develop values in a randomly selec­ted environment. This, said Coons, is best done in a school with a mixture ofstudents. 
The debate was sponsored by the Thomas J. White Center on Law and Government. The center was estab­lished to examine public policy questions within the framework of Judeo-Christian values. 
"My main objection to the process is that the present senate

Senate 
decided for themselves that a new election is necessary, without get­
continuedfrom page 1 
ting input from the recently Taeyaerts continued, "When I asked Duane Lawrence (student elected student senators," said body vice president-elect) why Ginty. "The procedure is atro· they were doing all this, he cious, though the goal of better repeatedly answered, 'Why not?' " serving the students is good." 
~~~~~~~~~~ ...... ~~~~~..-..-48
I WORRIES? QUESTIONS? I 1 CONCERNS? 1 
COUNSELINE is an anonymous service with tapes on many subjects. Call and ask for tapes in your area of concern. 
t t t 239-7793 t t 
Mon-Thurs 4-12 Fri 4-8 
I



L----------------­
THE EARLY.~BIRD... -~~,  
Classes starting April 14th  
_-, LSATC Call D1ys Evenin1s & Weekends ·~~ 1717 E.So.Bend 6 Educational Center 272-4135  


Monday, Aprill, 1985-page 3 
Saint Mary's class of '85 to pledge donations for EXCEL fund drive 
ByANNE MONAS'IYRSKI 
SentorStaffReporter 
A three-year pledge to the EXCEL 
program is the parting gift of the 
class of 1985 at Saint Mary's. 
The Challenge, the name of the senior gift, is designed so that seniors will donate increasing amounts during the next three years. April 8 through April 18 has been designated as "blitz week." This week will be used to receive 
pledges from the seniors. 
The gift is an effort to show class spirit as future alumnae, according_ to Usa O'Shea, assistant director of development at Saint Mary's. 
The 525 million EXCEL campaign is the College's current fundraising effort begun by College President John Duggan. 
This year's gift is a new type of 
senior class gift because it is de· 
signed to create an awareness of 
seniors as alunmae-to-be, according 
to Senior Class President Deborah 
Pascente. 

Last year, the class of 1984 
donated the exercise bicycles in An­
gela Athletic Facility. 
Because this is Duggan's last year at Saint Mary's, "We're a special year to begin this ( campgaign)," Pas­cente said. The class of 1985 has benefitted from the EXCEL cam· paign already because funds were used to build the Cushwa-Leighton 
Ubrary and the Haggar College Cen­ter. 
Each ofthe 25 senior board mem­bers will ask individual seniors for their contributions. The names of those who pledge will be posted on the senior bulletin board in LeMans Hall along with a thermometer to in­dicate campaign progress. 
The committee composed of O'Shea, Pascente and senior class Vice President Mary Sue Dunn devised three possible pledges totalling 590, $120, and $150 during the three-year period. But, O'Shea stressed that donations of any amount are acceptable. 
"It's important to the school that they (seniors) get going on this," O'Shea said. According to O'Shea, while the last I 0 graduating classes have been the largest in the Col­lege's history they have given the least. 
O'Shea points to two probable reasons for the lack of donations by this group. "One, the College has not been asking (for donations) for many years (about I 0 to 1 1 years) and two, seniors never have made a pledge before," unlike most col­leges. Colleges "exist by gifts," O'Shea said. 
The first year's donations will be a 
restricted fund. The money from the 
pledges will go to counseling and 
career development at the College. 
The senior board decided to 

ALANON Monday 5:45-6:45p.m. 
Counseling & Psychological Services Center 
Room 316 
Does someone significant to you have a drinking problem? Does it affect you? Maybe we can help. Call 239-5085 
The Ivy League Year in New York 
..
-

Qualified upperclassmen are invited to apply for admission to Columbia College as visiting students beginning in September 1985. Full access to housing, library resources, and upper divi­sion courses. For further information and an application, write or call: 
Columbia College Admissions Office 
212 Hamilton Hall 
New York, New York 10027 
(212) 280-2521 
COLLEGE COSTS ARE GOING UP. BUTSOISTHE ARMYCOLLEGE FUND. 
Tuition, books, lab fees, collegeliving expenses-all seem to be climbing relentlessly. Well, here's some good news from the Army. Today's Army College Fund is climbing too. You can now accumulate over $25,000 for college, if you qualify. 
What's more, you'll study, learn iJ,nd bec()me profi_cie()t in a useful skilL It could be a skill with so wide an application in both military and civilian life that it might help you decide what to take in college. 
If you're determined to go on to college, but you don't know where the money is coming from, pick up an Army College Fund booklet from your local recruiter. It offers seYeral options you 1l want to im·estigate. Stop by or call: 
SGT Brennan 234-4187 
ARMY. BE ALLYOU CAN BE. 
direct donations there because as seniors who have used the center in job search, "We can relate to that," Dunn said. Since the College cannot afford to fund all things on campus, counseling and career development "is one of the last things that would get money." The money will be used to help computerize the Counseling and Career Development Center. 
The following two-year's pledges 

will go to the regular EXCEL cam· 
paign fund to be used in all areas 
where there is need. 
Because Duggan has been com· 

mitted to fundraising for the Col· 
lege, O'Shea said,· "he'd be really 
excited to see that the senior class 
understands the needs of the school 
as a going away present, especially 
since he's leaving." 
At most colleges it's a question of how mt~ch to give, but at Saint Mary's "the question here is should I write a check at all." Statistics gath· ered by O'Shea indicate that among I 0 private colleges and universities Saint Mary's has the lowest percentage of alumnae participation with 29.3 percent donating. William's College, a private co­educational school with 1,910 stu· 
dents has the highest with 65.4 per 
cent alumni donating. There were 
I ,839 students at Saint Mary's when 

the statistics were gathered. Alumni 
contributions at Notre Dame were 
41.2 percent. 
Banking research center opens 
Special to The Observer 
A center for research in banking 

has been established by Notre 
Dame's College ofBusiness Adminis­
tration with funding from a group of 
20 banks in Indiana. 
.. 

"The continually changing nature of the financial services industry in Indiana, the nation and the world necessitates the expanded research that the center will provide," said 
Frank Reilly, dean of the College of Business Administration. 
"Our business faculty has the tal­ent and the expertise in banking to provide the research and education that will help Indiana banks to thrive in this rapidly changing environ­ment," Reilly said. 
Reilly will serve as one of 12 mem­bers ofan advisory board which will recommend research topics to be studied by the center. 
In addition to Reilly, the advisory board will be composed offour busi­ness faculty members and six bank­ers from the sponsoring institutions. A director, yet to be named, will complete the board. 
The center also will support fac­ulty research at Notre Dame in banking-related areas such as mone­tary theory and investment. 
Other activities sponsored by the center will include presentations by guest speakers from other univer­sities and the banking industry, and two seminars each year during which the results of the selected re­1 search projects will be presented to I the sponsoring bankers. 1
,

Sponsoring banks from the South Bend area are 1st Source Bank, Na­I tional Bank & Trust Co., and St. 
1 joseph Bank & Trust Co., all ofSouth Bend; Valley American Bank & Trust Co. of Mishawaka; and First National Bank of Elkhart. 
Additional sponsors include 

I
American Fletcher National Bank, 1,Indiana National Bank and Mer­
chants National Bank & Trust Co., all 
~ 

of Indianapolis; and Calumet Na­1 tional Bank, Hoosier State Bank of l Indiana and Mercantile National Bank ofIndiana, all ofHammond. 
~i~~~_()__i_ll__t_________________M_ond-ay_,A_pn_"ll_,l9-85__p_age-4 


Student Senate vote is April Fools joke 
Today. April I, the new student government officers were to have taken of­
fice. They will not. Instead, the outgoing senators will be voting tonight on a 
proposal which would radically change the positions to which these new offi­
cers were elected. 

In a move to restructure student government, the present officials extended 
their terms of office for two weeks and in that time they plan to complete an 
overhaul of student government. · 

The first question to be asked is why the present leaders have taken it upon 
themselves to restructure student government now? 

An obvious answer is that the sudden burst of activity stems from an effort to 
rebuild prestige after the secret senate meetings, the questionable reinstate­
ment of the Browne-Cahill ticket, the subsequent resignations of some govern­
ment leaders and the poor voter turnout of 44 percent. 

Although Rob Bertino, student body president, and other government leaders 
began discussing the possible revamping of student government in November, 
and although Bertino made restructuring a goal of his administration as early as 
last spring, no significant effort to restructure was made until after the election's 
debacle. Had these campus leaders seriously worked on the reconstruction 
throughout the past year, they would not have needed to extend their terms of 
office. 

There can he no excuse for the extension other than inefficiency and in­decisiveness. It is that simple. Two weeks is not enough time for the present senators to do a job which should not be theirs in the first place. 
The problem with student government is not just what they do, but how and when they do it. Student government suffers from a chronic sense ofbad timing. Rather than defining the problems ofstudent government and leaving the actual restructuring to the newly elected officials, the present leaders-many ofwhom are to blame for the problems student government is now facing-took it upon themselves to lengthen their terms and hurriedly move to form a new constitu­tion. 
Students elected new leaders a month ago and expected these officials to take office today. Because this has not happened, the credibility of student govern­ment is once again brought into question. 
Under the restructuring plan, the senate would be comprised of 25 senators. Each of the 24 halls would have a senator and the off-campus students would be represented by one senator. 
'Jbe soon-to-be senators find themselves in a most difficult position. They ran for office, campaigned throughout their districts, and now find themselves at the mercy of those they were supposed to replace. 
According to the plan, the four district senators and the one off-campus senator just elected automatically would become the senators of their respective places of residence. This is not the position for which they cam­paigned and it is not the position which students elected them to fill. 
It may he argued that because each of the new senators carried his place of residence, the,plan has some justification. Still, the fact remains the new senators were elected to be senators from their districts, not their dorms. 
In this case, student body opinion seems to be an afterthought to the present officials. The campus leaders should have sponsored a public forum to discuss any restructuring plan, and that plan ultimately should have been voted on by the student body. No plan will succeed unless the students support it and stu­dents should not support this rushed restructuring. 
'Jbe present senate and the Hall Presidents' Council should reject the new constitution before the credibility ofstudent government completely crumbles. 'Jbe final solution is being made without the approval of those whom the gov­ernment serves: the students. 
How appropriate for April Fools Day. 

-The Observer 
Doonesbury 


The=Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 


Catholic dissenters and church leaders are one 
lbe Catholic church is a church that claims to be fired by "the Spirit of the truth." But more and more this claim is being called into question. This is because many Catholics feel the pope, the hierarchy, and certain vocal minorities in the church misrepresent the role that individual conscience plays in the faith. Indeed, some Catholics feel their con­sciences are being manhandled by an institu­tional church that is overly impressed with its own authority. These Catholics feel abused, 
and think the leadership of the church is un­dermining the church's claim of being in­spired by the truth. 
Clearly, church leaders claim that Catholic morality is firmly rooted in the idea that one's conscience must always be obeyed. But many 
Vernon Marchal 
afterwords 
Catholics feel that, coming from these leaders, 
it is a dubious claim. Instead of allowing this 
claim to stand on its own, many Catholics feel 
church leadership obscures the integrity of 
this claim by surrounding it in a fog of of­
ficiality and cynicism. 
Certainly, if to be Catholic means to obey 
one's conscience, then it is not adequate for a 
Catholic to obey someone else's conscience, 
be it thepope's, the hierarchy's, or whoever's. 
This is not to deny or make light of the fact 
that Catholics belong to a community of 
believers which is united by the truth, and 
that out ofa sense offidelity to this unity, they 
should obey the pope when their conscience 
tells that such obedience is warranted. But this in no way implies that to be true to his Catholicity, a Catholic must subsume his con­science in favor of the pope's or anyone else's. And any authority, tradition, or attitude that implies that he must, or that impedes or makes more difficult the honest exploration ofone's own conscience, is at its heart uncatholic and is abusive of not only any claim of Catholic authenticity that it is presuming to invoke, but also of the unity of the church that all. Cat­holics seek to preserve and enhance. 
It is an unequivocally Catholic belief that the members of the church are obligated to act on the proddings ofconscience that is cer­tain, and that if this certainty is lacking, they must seek to educate their conscience. Thus, Catholics believe that faithfulness to con­science is connected with a sincerity in wan­ting to know the truth. But many Catholics feel the pope, the hierarchy, and others inject into this Catholic idea ofconscience the cyni­cal notion that human beings are somehow predisposed to evade the truth when they 
think that it will lead to hardship or the giving up ofsomething that is pleasurable. 
Garry Trudeau 
Many Catholics encounter this cynical atti­tude in the "Humane Vitae" in what the church leadership called the "grave conse­quences" of artificial methods of birth con­trol. Many Cathothics feel that, because of its cynical view of human nature, the leadership of the church has taken it upon itself to pro­vide the faithful with a yardstick by which those in the church might reliably determine how sincere they are in wanting to know the 
truth. Indeed, the pope, the hierarchy, and 
others often seem to claim that the ultimate 
measure ofa Catholic's sincerity is whether he 
listens to the teachings ofthe leadership ofthe 
church. Ifhe follows these teachings, then his 
sincerity is beyond question; if he does not, 
then his sincerity falls under suspicion. 
Now there are a great many Catholics who do not agree with, or who do not follow the teachings of the pope and the hierarchy, and there are a number ofthese who do so in good conscience. It is these Catholics who feel most offended by the church leader's cynicism, and it is these Catholics who feel that the institutional church is trying to bully them either out of the church or in line by presuming to call into question their sincerity in wanting to know the truth. lbese Catholics feel the pope and the hierarchy are grossly over-stepping their authority, and that in so doing, they are undermining the church's claim to be inspired by "the Spirit of the 
truth." 
But the fact is neither the pope nor the hierarchy have any authority to judge the sin­cerity of the faithful, nor do they claim any such authority. But, because the leaders ofthe church often take strong stands on issues where there is much disagreement, and be­cause certain big mouth minorities in the church (including some members of the in­stitutional church) often distort the leader­
ship's position on these issues, those who find themselves disagreeeing with the church's teachings are frequently made to feel like second-class Catholics. Of course, they are not, although the leadership of the church does not go out of its way to tell them that they are not. 
In the future, perhaps the challenge before those who dissent from the teachings of the church's leaders is to make sure they really know what those teachings are. And perhaps the challenge before church leaders is to be less cynical, more clear, and more supportive of those Catholics who have disagreements with their teachings. Indeed, if both Catholic dissenters and church leaders treat each other with more understanding, perhaps neither side will be inclined to feel abused. 
Vernon Marchal is a senior in the Program ofLiberal Studies and ts a regular Viewpoint columnist. 


(219) 239-5303 
The Observer IS the tndependent newpaper publtshed by the students of the Untllerstly of Notre Dan•c· duLac and Samt Mary's College. It does not necessanly reflect the pohctes of the .1dmtntstrat1on of e1n1er mstttutton. The news 1s reported as accurately and as Jb,ecttvely as posstble Unstgned edttorials represent the opmton of a maJOrity of the Ed1tonal Board Commentanes. letters and the lnstde Column present the v1ews of the~r authors. Column space ts available to all members of the communtty. and the free expresston of varymg optntons on campus. through letters. ts encouraged 
Edt tor tn Chtel  Sarah E Hamilton  Bus1ness Manager  Dav.d Stephen1tch  
Managmg Edt tor  Amy Stephan  AdvertiStng Manager  Anne Cull1gan  
News Editor  Keith Hamson Jr  Controller  8111 H1qhduchec~  
News Edt tor  Dan McCullouqh  Systems Manager  Mark B Johnsor•  
Satnt Mary's Executive Edttor  Theresa Guanno  Producl•on Manager  John A M"nne·  
Sports Edilor.  Jeff BkJmb  
Accent Edt tor  Mary Healy  
V1ewpotnT Edt tor  Joe Murphy  
Photographv Edilor  Peter C Laches  
Copy Ch1el  Frank L•po  Founded November 3, 1966  

IRISH WIN NCAA -Page 16 
VOLUPTUOUS, NO KIDDING The irrelevant tabloid which can be bought ONCE UPON A TIME 

SMC gets a Prince of a new president 
Undercover 
The Absurder bas learned that the coach of the Notre Dame broad's basketball team, Mary DiStanislao, is actually a Rus­sian spy. DiStanislao is·really Raisa Gorbacbev, wife of the recently elected general secre­tary of the Communist Party. In an exclusive interview with The Absurder, DiStanislao ad­mitted that she bad been sent to Notre Dame to i-nfiltrate the athletic department. DiStanis­lao is in the custody ofthe PAC 10 and after she is debriefed, DiStanislao-Gorbachev will be deported to Northwestern Uni­
versity at Siberia. 
Senseless constitution announced 
ByOLOGICAL WARFARE different letter. No one can ever less has decided to try a whole new News Stud again accuse us ofbreaking our own way ofchoosing representatives. rules. These rules aren't really rules, 
"Elections are out," said
A new name, a new constitution, they're just like hints," said 
Burntoenails. "From now ·on we're
and indeed a whole new roll oftoilet Burntoenails. 
going to have tryouts for Student 
paper were unveiled at last night's He further noted that now that the 
Senseless. It works for the Prancin'
Student Senseless meeting. Student Senseless has the hassles of 
Irish, I don't see why we shouldn't
The Student Senseless has taken constitution writing solved forever, 
give it a shot." 
what Bob Burntoenails, student "maybe we'll be able to do some­body poster child, calls "a really thing really useful, like change our According to the new constitu­radical turn toward the future" in name." tion, the tryout will include talent, adopting the first ever multiple­An integral part of the new consti­poise and personality categories, but 
choice constitution. tution are the election procedures. no bathing suit competition. "We "Now whenever we want to In response to the confusion in the don't want to turn this into a joke," change a rule, we can just choose a recent student elections, the sense-said Burntoenails. 
ByPRODUCT 
SMC Chick Extraodinaire 
The purple rain will fall as Prince takes top billing at Aint Married's College following his appointment as College president until 1999, said president Jock Dugger. 
"Prince is the ultimate choice for these SMC's," said Dugger. "He is someone the chicks can look up to, sort oflike a role model, you know?" 
"Let's go crazy, girls," exclaimed Prince, upon hearing news ofhis ap­pointment. "You should all know that I would die for you." 
The new president said there are many policy changes he's looking forward to implementing. 
"For instance, parietals, what is a parietal, I'd like to know?" he asked. "Twenty-four hour a day visitation has come to campus with your ew leader, babes." 
"Prince was, like you know, my first choice for the job," Dugger commented. "Here I was sitting at Purple Rain with the wife, and, like, I just could not believe the talent oozing from this guy! Plus, you know, I was looking at those costumes of Apollonia, Wendy, and Usa. Why can't those SMC girls start dressing like that, I want to know? 
Prince agreed with Dugger and said his first appointment as presi­dent will be the selection of Apol­lonia as Dean of Student Dress. "Anyone caught with a Forenza sweater will forced to listen to 'USA for Africa' 1,500 times in a row," he said. "That should teach 'em." 
Father Tepid Huddleburger, pres­ident of the University of Never Doom, expressed dismay over the announcement. "With Prince over at SMC, how are we ever going to get students over here for Engineering Auditorium movies?" he questioned. "Huddleburger is just scared," said Prince. "He knows I'm just biding time before starting a revolt that will overthrow him and install Sheila E. as president over there." 
Huddleburger denied reports that he has been in contact with singer/actor Morris Day, in an effort to recruit him into a high-ranking position with Never Doom. "That simply is not the case," said Hud­dleburger. "Why, I don't even like the man's music. In fact, I can't even dance. And not only that, I don't even listen to· the radio. And besides, I don't even own one. And on top of that, I'm never here. 

Ethanol Plant reeks havoc 
ByWILLLffiEL On the Notre Dame and Saint Phew Stink Mary's campuses, some students are up in arms about the smell from the The South Bethanol City Council west. "It's really terrible," said Notre 
today decided to investigate claims that the odor emanating from the city's new ethanol plant is reeking havoc in the community. 
According to Health Director Bar­ney "Stinky" Stenchson, citizens have been complaining of dizziness, nausea and even impotence as a result of the odor. "When they opened up the plant they told us the smell would go away in a few days because it was caused by some 'darn kids with a stinkbomb.' Silly us, we believed them," he said. 

"Then, when the odor continued, we went back and asked them about it again," he explained. "And, do you know what? Those darn kids were back again." 
Dame junior Y.U. Lookinatme. "This morning it got all over my socks. I tried washing it off, but they really stunk. P.U." 
Saint Mary's sophomore I.M. Hungry said it has affected her appe­tite. "I can't explain it. Every time I smell the ethanol I just want to go out and eat a gallc;m of Haagen-Dazs ice cream. You can see what it has done for my figure," she said. "I think I may sue the plant owners for $200,000. That's exactly the cost of a truckful ofpopsicles." 
The ethanol plant manager, Myron Weaselface, said yesterday that the problem has been cor­rected. "We have purchased 1,000 cases of Old Spice Stick Deodorant to be used by our workers," he said. 


Sexual domination at issue in Neuter Dream admissions 
Editor's Note: This is part 69 in an indefinite series of articles sizing up the issue of sex domination at Neuter Dream and Sore Mouths. Today's article will peek behind the scenes and doors on both campuses. Tomor­row's article may have nofocus. 
By SEXUAL 
StaffInjection 
In an affirmative action move, 

the Bored of Mistrustees ofNeuter 
Dream have decided to stop admit­
ting men to the University. 
"I can't fight this feeling any longer. Men have dominated this school for more than a century, and frankly, I'm fed up with it," University President Father Tad Hasbeen said in -a closed-door in­terview yesterday. 
"They can't produce a winning football team, they can't hold their liquor, and these days they can't even win a wet willy contest. Besides, I'm sick and tired of the ratio," he added. 
When the change was an­nounced, the Neuter Dame male population didn't just lie back and take it. Studt"nts hung protest sheets from dorm windows, and some went so far as to organize a food fight in the South Dining Hall. 
Hasbeen, however, calmed the uproar by promising all Neuter Dame males that they would be given a chance to buy season foot­ball tickets next year and would be issued discount subscriptions to Spurts Illuminated magazine. 
Hasbeen said he wasn't surprised at the relatively easy time he had calming the protest. "After all, it never has taken much to pacify us Neuter Dream boys." 
Not everyone has taken the change so well. Former Neuter Dream Student Body President­elect Chill Freely said, "I can't believe it. For years, Neuter Dream was the bastion ofmale supremacy then along came a woman and it's all just a beautiful dream." 

Freely said he plans to continue his political career at Sore Mouth's. "At first it was a grave disappoint-
Sexual 
Domination 

ment, being dethroned -I mean thrown out of office and all. However, I've now seen the light and decided to join the Pullman generation." 
Although the male protest quickly dribbled down to nothing, hundreds of angry women stormed the administration build­ing refusing to move to Pangborn or Fisher. 
Although women eventually will be housed in all of the men's dorms on campus, the changeover could take months. "I wouldn't house my dog in most of those dorms," said Hasbeen. "They didn't call Carroll the vermin for nothing.'' 
Father Davehad Myson, vice president for student affairs, is working with the Environmental Protection Agency to prepare for the male-free campus. He said it could take months to make the men's dorms habitable. 
"Despite accusations by the EPA, we maintain that the odor hanging over South Bend emanates from the Ethanol Plant, not Dil­lon," Myson said. 
Neuter Dame men will not be left out in the cold. Sore Mouths 
new president, Prince, announced 
yesterday that Dreamer men will 
always be welcome at Sore Mouths 
College. "We're rolling out our red 
corvette and spreading our gates · wide open for them." 
Many girls from Sore Mouths ex­
pressed ecstasy over the new 
policy. "I'm so excited, I just can't 
hide it. I think it's a super idea," 
said one LeManless resident. "It is 
about time Neuter Dream men 
realized there are women over 
here. We can chow down as much 
ice cream as any Walsh girl." 
The more militantly feminine 
students at Neuter Dream also 
were pleased as punch with the 
policy change. Gloria Van Dyke, 
president of the Prancin' Irish, 
voiced her thrill, "For Neuter 
Dream, it's a hard habit to break, 
but it's time people realized who 
wears the pants at this university." 

1, j 
! 
r 
r-
r 
r 
r 
r r 
r 
r 
,r 
r 
r· 
r 
l I 
No new ~_o_i_n_t_______
oN_c_EU-PO-N-AT-IM_E_pag-e2 
Leader lists past accomplishments 
Robber tino nothing doing 

Robber tino is a senioratNotre Dame and is the president of the Notre Dame student body. 
B.O.BoxPew 
Wobber's weally wong 
DearEdtot: 
In response to Wobber tino's column of today, I'd like to complain. Wobber hasn't done half those things. I did tern all. 
Shoore, Wobber tino wants all da credit, but ol'm da one whose made student government what it is today. 
Can we tawlk? Everyone knows whose da boss, and it ain't Wobber. I shoulda been da precedent, but a woman can't be precendent atND. 
An anuda ting, when's da campus gonna wealwise wob has no weal da.~lre to give up da trone? 
Apathy DaVid 
Student Bawdy VD 
Rob's right 
DearEdtot: 
That's right Apathy, this campus isn't big enough for the both of us. ND means no 
Dingle bury 

dames, so get lost. Go do a pepsi commercial with your daughter, loser! And you can tell those darn students I'm never goin to give them the Pill heely. 
Robber 
President for life 
You're both wrong 
DearEdiot: 

I am responding to the above letters, but not the column. It speaks for itself. My advice to tino is start looking for a job. I'm in charge here. 
I just wana have power. Tino better give it to me. I won't wait much longer. Tino, you better ask yourself-Do you feel lucky? 
Tino thinks he's a big man on campus, but I am a rock. I touch no one and no one touches me. 
In fact, I am the world. I'm too good to be true. Can't take my eyes off of me. I'm like the Dome above...and tino better beat it... it doesn't matter whose wrong or right, just beat 
it. As for Apathy, she can go drown herselfin a 

bowl of ice cream. PILL "The Haig" heely President-erect 
P.S. Hey tino, Go ahead make my day! 
You're all wrong 

DearEdiot: 
In repsonse to the above three leaders of our beloved student body, let me just say I'm bad, bad Pattie Brown meanest dud in whole damn town, fatter than a BP girl, ma(:lder than a Holy Cross hog. 
Where have you gone Joanie Caill? Our campus turns it lonely eyes to you. 
Well, we're not going a take it. No, we ain't gonna take it. We're not gonna take it anymore. 
I'm leaving on a jet plane. Don't know when I'll be back again. You're not going to have Pattie Brown to kick around anymore. 
Pattie Brown Should've been, but now a hasbeen 
Whose a hasbeen? 

DearEditor: 
Speaking of hasbeens, I am wnung in response to Mark Beenahasbeen's May 23 column, "Ducksjust Wanna Have Fun." I must disagree with his claim that slickers offer the best rain protection on this soggy campus. Slickers are downright dangerous and they in­fringe on other people's rights. You cannot see to your right or left because of the hood and could easily get run down by an over­zealous, passing groundscrew member. It is also as difficult to hold a conversation with a 
slicker wearer as with a Walkman user. This is just plain rude. I think the administration should come up with a Rain Policy requiring the use of umbrellas to protect us all from these problems. 
A. Flasher Drlpptng'wet in Alumni 

Hairy Truedoo 

Briefcase 
Rhoades Scholar Boob Won­
derchild ha.~ been stripped of his scholarship because the admissions office of the Univer­sity of Never Drunk discovered that Wonder­child cheated on his SATs in high school. "With the scores Boob really got, he couldn't get into !USB," said Bill Melater, admissions director. After the truth was revealed about his SAT scores, Wonderchild admitted he also had cheated on an elementary school spelling test, the test of the emergency broadcasting system and a breathalyzer test. -TheAbsurder 
Of No Interest 
The Soviet news agency TOSS reported today that after three weeks Con­stantine Chernenko is still dead. The release was in response to reports that the former So­viet premier has been seen frequenting a cer­tain liquor store since his reported death. 
TOSS also released statements confirming that Brezhnev and Andropov are still among the deceased.-The Absurder. 
Whether 

The Bored ofMistrustees 
of the University of Near Doom have decided to divest the school's interests in South Africa. Instead, the University will invest its money in South Dakota. "We are investing our money in South Dakota, but not without reservations," announced Father Thadeus Iceberg, Near Doom president. "Farms there must operate according to the Sillyvain Principles. If treat­ment of the state's pigs and cows does not im­prove, we'll pull out of there too." -The Absurder 
Physics Colloquium: "The 
Effects of Solar Radiation on Non-Binding Electron Pairs in Macromolecular Subdural Hematomas on the Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Patterns Achieved From Spectral Analysis with a Xerox 2500 Copier." Professor Chaing Hai Shek, department of Physics, Uni­versity of Kokomo. 2:30 p.m., 128 Nomansland Hall. -The Absurder 
Packitin! Nuclear winter is expected to begin this afternoon. Tempera­tures will reach a late morning high of 1,000,000 degrees Celsius, cooling off to an icy -273 Kelvin by late afternoon. Citizens are advised to huddle up and to take a crash course in Russian. -The Absurder 

Flasher goes too far 

DearEditor: 
I would like to respond to the Flasher's let­ter of this same page. I have to protest the in­volvment of the administration in this matter. It is bad enough that they are making us drink milk and eat veggies at every meal, but having to give up my raincroat would really stick in my craw. In my opinion it is umbrellas that cause all the problems on this waterlogged campus. They crowd people off the sidewalks and could very easily poke someone in the nose, causing a suit to be taken against the user or the university. They also have a very nasty tendancy to drip all over everything. Bethideth, raincoath are nith and colorful and I love the thmell and feel of the wet rubber againtht my thkin. It remindth me of the good old dayth with :ill the boyth in Akron. 
Lyle Soap St. Mary's Lake 
QSays: 
Keep your stupid opinions to yourself. 
I'm sick and tired of listening to this cry-baby bitching and complaining. So next time you want to say something stupid write to another newspaper. 


~i!Jbe ~!!!'!"!~~Glutle
.. 

Our haircuts are $5 and the finest In town. 
~-~ -. 

. ·---'S"HAIRCUTS 

i:i) •blowdry



~·=· 

2.12-0312 Hair muat be Sham~ •Yof cut. 
277-1118 •••,.OIIIJ 111111..... ,__,... 
• 
•
• 
•

•• We, the management of Senior Bar, want your money. Frankly, we're sick and tired of having to invent outrageous specials to bring you in to trash our joint. I mean, here we are, a nice group of people trying to provide a service, and all we do is get ragged on by penny-pinching cretins who don't bat an eye when they waste hundreds of daddy's doUars everytime they drop a class, but they'll chew your ear off because their quarter beer has half an inch of foam on it. Ergo, and in conclu­sion, it is indeed the case that•••er•••I forgot
ratI was going to~ ~k I need abel 
• CI.IT op Tloli., \'1~1...~ .. • • 

Accident 
ONCE UPON A TIME-page 3 


tc************************* ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••\ 
i' MIDNIGHrMoviEs*MIDNIGHTMoviEs ·it: The Student Activities Bored •t The Student Activities Bored t: presents: ! 
~ ~ •. Another A.C. C. Thriller .• 
'"" Presents: '""
t "Debbie Domer Does Dallas" t: Slim ~~Jtman : ~ and ~.: .Boxcar Willy••• '"" • "SMC's In Cages" •·'"" Live at the Notre Dame A.C. C. • 
• This Friday and Saturday ~ight •: Ticket stubbs good for 1Stoff a draft at Senior Bag : ~*******12*:0*0a*.m*.*$1•.00*A*dm*IS*SIO*n******«: Tickets available at S.A.B. Record Store from 12:30 -1 • ~ *······································· 
Cretin McClutzsy 
creatures staff writer 
ShopGoodwill 
921 N. Eddy (Across from Nickle's) 

0 r E I se! ! ! 
After shelling out $10,000 dollars for school, your budget needs a break. Buy at Goodwill and still have money left for BEER. 

We have everything : 
couches pillows clothes 
chairs 
small appliances tables lamps and much morel 
If we don•t have It. you probably don't need It 
curling irons in hair the longest wins. Singed hair and sizzling scalps will earn bonus points. 
•Festival 
of Death-University Funeral Services begins its Festiv;tl of Death this week. The festival will include the SM Spike-a-thon which will take place in the dying halls during the dinner hours. 

•Sinner 
Cocktail Party-A Sinner Cocktail Party will be held in the ACC tonight from 9-1. The specialties will be Gory Marys and Gin and Toxics. 


•Python-a-thon-Snakes alive! 
This one should be fun. The Fis­hymen Advisory Council is sponsor­ing a python-a-thon on Saturday evening in LaUnfortune Ballroom. The pythons will be eaten alive at the fastest rate possible. 
•Jock-Alike-Don't 
forget, the Non-Fartsity Afilictics sponsors the big Jock-Alike competition this weekend. How will the Non-Fartsity jocks stand up to the Fartsity jocks? Come and find out on Fryday night at the ACC. Winners will qualify for a national competition. 

•Special 
Fundraising Song­The Neutered Dame administration has spontaneously offered to produce and record its own special song to demonstrate the depth ofits feeling about the SM issue and to raise money for the cause. Written by fathers Wooly Blowchunks and Rabid Ticson, the LP boasts a distin­guished chorus of Wholly Cursed 



ther Turd Hisburp as soloist. The song goes, 
We are the whirled We are the beaten We are the ones who make a pain­ful day So lets start killing There's a choice we're making We're taking our own lives It's true we make a battered day justyou and me 
DORM ACHETIVITIES 

•Axe Toss-The fun was flying Thursday evening as Loose and Squalsh Halls competed in an axe toss. Loose chopped Squalsh. The score was Loose -seven survivors, Squalsh -three. 
•Phlegmer Gross Tug ofMar-
This Wednesday teams from Phleg­mer and Gross halls will stand on their respective dorm roots with a rope strung between. This is a real show of the SM spirit. Down below volunteers from the Pusgorillas will sell refreshments to spectators gath­ered around the special cement plat­form placed there just for the occasion. 
•Aluminum 
Hall Bloodsales­Aluminum Hall held a special bloodsales night and raised 569,690 for SM. Good work, boys! 

•Long 
Distance Ear-Piercing Cllnic-This week booths will be set up in the dying halls during meals to serve men, women and others inter­ested in aquiring a new look. Volun­teers from Brawn-Fatlips hall will use forks or darts (depending on the number of pierces desired) to com­pete for the longest-distance pierces possible. 



Little curly pig tails 
Notre Dame Chemistry Professor Squeemil T. Hoggman an­nounced today that be was retiring after 20years ofteaching. "It's snout likeI'm trying to bog thisjobfor too long. But, to be oinknest about itl'dratberrootaround tbebousefora while. That would be swine with me." He added later that be didn't think it would be kosher to continue as a chemistry professor. 
More pain is on the way! So keep the coins and quiet money rolling in. 
As the ND Millions for Sado­Masochism drive prepares for its fourth week, the dollar amounts keep rising for SM, as well as St. Joseph's Medical Center. Yet more revolting activities are scheduled for the Neutered Dame/Sick Minds commune for the coming week. And don't forget . . . if enough pain is generated, we could reach the peak of excruciation with a free MVD concert right here on campus! 
lAST WEAK 
•SOB 
Movies-Tuesday night, the Sick Obsession Board presented the final film in its SM benefit series, "The Unnatural," starring Slobert Deadford. 

THIS WEAK 

•Curl-Out 
Contest-At SM Col­lege, the sick chicks of LaMania and Wholly Cursed Halls will plug in the curling irons and put them on high as they compete in a curl-out con­test Wednesday. The team to keep 


Snorts 
ONCE UPON A TIME-page 4 

Just wanted to say hello a time or two 

geta bid to the Roman Catholic Mass Tournament. The /wish can't count on Livers to do itall with the chalice. He can really dish it out, but Hud­dleburger's gonna have to be the aircraft carrierat Communion." 
Telecast of Calm Sunday Liturgy shows intercollegiate Mass action 
By THE POWER VESTED IN And now, the starting lineup for "Hello again everybody. And ME the Mothers of Holy Cross... At cen­mean everybody. Again and again, St1orts God ter, a 5-8 monsignor from South Bet­hello. Not goodbye, but hello. You 
hanoi, Indiana... Number One. say goodbye, but I say hello. Again. Ext>rpts from the NBC Snorts 'lbeodore Huddleburger... ! Everybody." telecast ofthe Calm Sunday Liturgy "Duck, you're our inside man at "Well, the reader has just finished
in Scared Heart Church. Neuter Dream. Tell us, just how the first reading. Huddleburger mo­
"Hello, America. 'Ibis is AI McUar good is this year's squad of the Mot­with Dick Iceberg live at the Univer­tions... time out, Neuter Dream! hers of Holy Cross?" sity of Neuter Dream with all the ac­
The band has started playing some­thing rather slow. That's funny; docs
tion and excitement of "Well AI, they've got a lot ofexpe­intercollegiate Mass." 
it sound like the 'Neuter Dream 
rience on the altar. And they've got a 
Defeat March' to you, Dick?" 

lot of depth, too, with Father Blow­"'lbat's right, AI. Ofcourse, every­chunks, Father Red 'Rolls' Royce and
"'Jblngs are getring a little slow 
one knows that we're in the last Father Birdshell in the sacristy. '!bey
out there. Wait, Father Hud­
week of the Lenten season, and take a little too much time for the
dlehurger just looked up for some
Neuter Dream is looking for a bid to homily, but they can't he beat at the
inspiration. Now he's got Brave
the: Roman Catholic Mass Tourna­Consecration. 'Ibe sacrements really
Livers bringing the offertory up the 
ment. A good service. today is vital are their game."
aisle. Just look at those moves;
for the fwish priests to stay on The "'lbat's right, Duck. We saw them
there's nothing that kid can't do with

Road to the Vatican.... in the CYO Christmas tournament
a chalice...." with Market, Dateless and DeFault. 

Boy, this sure is a nice facility. Al, "We're back live. It's halftime at And they really burned the place up did you notice all the beautiful paint­the Calm Sunday Mass at Scared on Ash Wednesday. The big ques­ings here in Scared Heart?" Heart Church at the University of tion now is: will they rise to the oc­
"Yes I did, Dick, and they're quite Neuter Dream. I'm AI Mcliar with casion on Easter?" impressive. I'm almost certain that Dick Iceberg and our guest today is "I don't know, AI, but with the r.he big one over there is a Michelan­Absurder snorts babbler Duck Fris­coaching they've got, it's going to 
gelo!" bee. Hello Duck." 
Snorts Briefs 
Tryouts for the Jerkin' Irish will be held 
tomorrow in the men's room on the second floor of the Memorial Ubrary. Anyone who is interested may attend. Appropriat~.: magazines will be provided. -TheAbsurder 
The NoManless vendo relay team of Aint 
Married's faces offagainst the Bay of Pigs team tomorrow at I a.m. in LeFat vendoland. The dorm to wolf down the most Hostess pies in the post-parietals pigout will be the proud winner of 100 bags of Sour Cream and Onion potato chips per person. -TheAbsurder 
At the end of gEEk week, the Neuter Dream 
electrical engineers lead the CHEG's in relay team nose picking. The AERO's are in the lead of the TI-55 programming contest, and the ME's won the build a better breakfast contest. -TheAbsurder 
NCAA Basketball Tournament tickets 
for the first-round games at Neuter Dream are still available. Bleac­her tickets are available at the Gate I 0 ticket office at the ACC at $75 for the general public and S120 for students. -TheAbsurder 
Interhall spitwad team captains must at­
tend a mandatory meeting held by Not Important Athletics ( NIA) tomorrow at 5 a.m. in the pit where the swimming pool is supposed to be. Any captains that do not attend will face major disciplinary measures from NIA. -TheAbsurder 
Absurder Snorts Briefs are not accepted in the Absurder office. If you really want us to get your briefs, please wash 

I r them and mail them with Si 2.99 at least three years in advance to 
B.O. Box Q.-TheAbsurtler 

I 
Duck Frisbee 
Snorts Bobble 


Hi. Hello. Howdy. How you doin'? 
Hello, again. 

Hello again, everybody. 
Well folks, this is going to be some kind ofcolumn, because I came 
to write, and you came to read. 'Ibc !wish are somewhere in be­
tween really great and really bad, but I can't make up my mind 
which, and I really don't want to say because then I would take a 
stand. So, let it be said that they are doing something dreadfully 
wrong, and we've got to do something about it. 
Now let me see ifl can find another cliche to write in here because 
that will really make this some kind of column, and, after all, you 
came to read and I came to write. Ofcourse, I already knqw that, but 
I'm telling you because I figure you don't know it and I should tell 
you about it even ifit's irrelevant to the topic I'm discussing. 
Speaking ofirrelevant topics, did you notice what a long sentence 
that last one was? I like using long sentences because they use lots of 
polysyllabic words that really make me look like I know what I'm 
talking about, and that makes you respect me even more than the 
rest ofthe clowns on the sports staff that don't know anything. Speak­
ing oflong sentences, wasn't that a good one? 
Well anyway, back to the topic, which I really haven't started dis­
cussing yet, but what the heck, I've got to fill up all this space on this 
side of the page, so I might as well throw in another sentence which 
doesn't pertain to anything but takes up a few more lines of space. 
And wasn't that a nice, long sentence? 
Let's get back to the topic, which is cliches. Who better to write about them than me? I like to use a plethora of them, a veritable bevy of them, and a lot of them, too. I can say that Yelps "couldn't stop a jumper that brought rain because he closed the barn door after the horse was gone, and now his defense is going to have to be on those guys like bees on honey." Basically, I have said absolutely nothing, but it took up a lot ofspace and made a nice long sentence. 
Cliches. 'Jbey'rc wrong. He's wrong. She's wrong. Everybody's wrong, except me. Because I'm never wrong. How could I he wrong? I write for this paper, and we're never wrong. It's wrong to think that i'm.wrong. Yes, it's wrong. 
Well, goodbye. So long. Sayonara. Auf Wicderschn. Au Revoir. 
Adios. See you later, alligator. In a while, crocodile. 
Again. 
Everybody. 

Pick of the Week .. This is actually a meaningless sports event 
that no one in their right mind would go to, but I fi~'Ure you've read 
this much of my column, so how could you possibly be in your right 
mind? This week I suggest you go out toJack Klunk Field and watch grass grow. It should be really excitingfor you, but don't look for me to be there because it really doesn't matter to me. Furthermore, you really don't matter to me either, and that's why I keep sending·you to these stupid thinw;. 
take a miracle to beat them...." 
"We have to save our butts" 
Neuter Dream initiates cheating 
By HOOK or By CROOK anyway. We've got too many schools Notre Dame tiddlywinks coach St1orts Liars playing by the rules, and it really Berry Louse also was pleased with puts a damper on the good places the decision. "I'm really proud ofFa­Neuter Dream has started a policy that cheat like my friend Dim Val­ther Royce for protecting the in­ofcheating wherever possible in in­voline at N.C. Great. Look, he gets a tegrity of these young men," said tercollegiate athletics. convict to play Nertball and wins the Louse. "We've had a lot ofinjuries on "You're darn right we're going to national championship, and I'm our team-you know, people getting cheat now," blurted athletic direc­stuck with Slim Unkempton. fingers in the eye and getting tor Clean Boreagain. "Look at our scratched coronaries, strained ar­tiddlywinks record the last few "Last year, I almost couldn't get chilles tendons, and that kind of years. You think we're going to get Brave Livers to come here because I stuff. I've always said we should kids to come to this pit anymore? ·had to pay for the Porsche out of my string these young men out on dope 
We're looking at a situation in the athletic department where we have to save our butts." The decision was confirmed by executive presi­dent ofvice in charge ofathletics, Fa­ther Red "Rolls" Royce. "Here at Neuter Dream, we used to put a lot of emphasis on recruiting the student-athlete," recalled Royce. "But when I was freezing my chalice offin Memphis last year with the tid­dlywinks team, I realized I could be getting a tan in some warmer place if we just cheated a little. 'lbat's when we said, 'The hell with the student ­let's go for Hawaii."' 
Notre Dame Nertball coach Big­ger Yelps praised the decision by Royce. "'Ibis is definitely a Neuter Dream moment," said Yelps. "We're looking at a situation in college ath­letics right now that really isn't very important, but I'll talk about it 
own pocket. I shouldn't have to do and make them a real team, but that. I'm the star." nobody ever listens to me." 
Yelps joins convent 
Neuter Dream basketball coach Bigger Yelps finally fulfilled a lifelong ambition last night when he secretly escaped to a Laporte con­vent and became a nun. 
"It's something I've always wanted to do," said Yelps at a hastily called press conference. "There was something inside of me that kept saying, 'nun, nun, nun,' so I became one." 
Yelps has yet to decide if he will leave the University, but cited his re­lationship with local snortscaster Jerk Piano and the South Bend nightlife as factors influencing him to stay on. Coach Bigger Yelps 

l 

Sports Briefs 
The Notre Dame baseball team's scheduled doubleheaders with Indiana and Northwestern this weekend were postponed because of wet playing conditions·. The next action for the Irish is tomoTTow, when Ball State visits Jake Kline Field for a twinbill beginning at I :30 p.m. -The Observer 
Women's Bookstore Basketball signups have been extended until today. Teams may pay the SS registration fee in the An Tostal office from 4 p.m. to 5 p.m. For more informa­tion, call the office at 239-7668. -The Observer 
An Tostal innertube water polo signups have been extended until today. For more information, contact the An Tostal office in Lafortune. 
Dancin' Irish tryouts are coming up. An organiza­tional meeting for anyone interested in trying out will be held tonight at 7 p.m. in the Chautaqua Ballroom. For more information, call Debbie at 283-3552 or Lisa at 283-2697.-The Observer 
Bookstore Basketball schedules will be available tomoTTow from 4 p.m. to 5 p.m. in the An Tostal office on the second floor of Lafortune for all teams who were unable to at­tend Sunday's captain's meeting. Only those teams who have not already picked up a schedule will be allowed to doso. No schedules will be distributed after tomorrow. -The Observer 
Anyone interested in scorekeeping for the Bookstore Basketball tournament should attend a meeting tomorrow from 7 p.m to 7:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theatre. Those unable to attend must call Suzanne La Croix at l83-1365 or Marc Ramirez at 283-2504 before the meeting.-The Observer 
Notre Dame baseball players Jackie Moran and Joe Dobosh will be the guests on "Speaking of Sports" when it airs tomoTToW night at 9 p.m. on WVFI AM-64. Listeners may call in with questions and comments at 239-6400. -The Observer 
Monday, April 1, 1985 -page 5 
An Tostal mud volleyball signups wm be held today through Thursday from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. in the An Tostal office in Lafortune. Each team must consist ofat least seven players, two of whom must be women. For more information, call Janet Tabit at 277-3967 or Matt Corrigan at 283-2465.-The Observer 
An Tostal ultimate frisbee signups will be held tomorrow and Wednesday in the lobby of LaFortune from 7:30p.m. to 9 p.m. Rosters of ten players and their ID numbers will be ac­cepted for the tournament, which begins Thursday, April 11. -The Observer 
Applications are being taken for the position of president of the Saint Mary's College Athletic Council for the 1985-86 school year. Applications can be picked up now at the An­gela Athletic Facility and must be returned by Thursday. All inter­ested athletes are encouraged to apply. -The Observer 
Several top amateur wrestlers from the United States andJapan will participate in an international challenge match on Thursday at 7 p.m. in the ACG. Some Olympians and NCAA champions will compete, including Irish assistant coach John Azevedo, the NCAA 57 kg. champ. Tickets are available now at the Gate 10 ticket office of the ACC at S5 for adults and S3 for students 18 and under.-The Observer 
An interhalllacrosse league is being formed by NVA. The deadline for entries is Monday, April 8. For more infor­mation, call the NVA office at 239-6100.-The Observer 
Interhall baseball umpires are being sought by NVA. Anyone who is interested may fill out an application at the NVA office. -The Observer 
The Irish Spring Runs,roadracesofsixandthree miles, will be held by NVA on Saturday, April 20. T-shirts will be awarded to all finishers, and a trophy will be awarded to the top finisher in each of the five divisions: men's undergraduate, women's undergraduate, men's graduate, women's graduate, and faculty and staff. An entry fee of S4 is due by Friday, April 12, in the NVA office. ­
The Observer 
Irish 

continuedfrom page 8 
sistent problem was the offense's in­ability to hang on to the football, as they lost control ofit seven times. 

Hopefully, the Irish can eliminate the mistakes without sacrificing the intensity displayed on the field Sat­urday. 
"The offense really came off the ball well, and the defense pursued well," noted Faust. "The defense was also quick reacting to the ball, and I thought they did some gang tack­ling." 
Faust was pleased also with the play ofNotre Dame's three freshmen quarterbacks, Andrysiak, Byrne, and Pat Pesavento. All three contestants for the No.2 quarterb~ck spot played well, Andrysiak completing three of his five passing attempts for 48 yards, and the 6-4 Byrne hitting two ofsix for 29 yards. · Two other key positions for the 
Irish going into the scrimmage were the fullback and tight-end slots. At fullback, 6-4 freshman Frank Starns, 5-10 junior Tom Monahan and 5-11 sophomore Pernell Taylor all per­formed well. Converted safeties Jim Bobb and Mike Visovatti also carried the ball from the position. Starns scored twice from the goal-line of­fense, Monahan banged out 34 yards on 12 carries and Taylor carried the 
ball seven times for 35 yards. 
At tight end, meanwhile, con­

verted defensive tackle Tom Rehder 
was impressive blocking, while 
sophomore Joel Williams and fresh­
man David Earhart also played well 
at the position. 

The Irish coaches will get the chance to see more at the practices today and tomorrow, before the next scrimmage on Wednesday. 
Hopefully for Faust, that 

scrimmage on Wednesday will be as 
hard-hitting as the scrimmage on 
Saturday. Then his Notre Dame foot­
ball team would really be sitting 
pretty. 

The Obsen•er Notre Dame office. located on the third floor of Lafortune Student Center. accepts dassified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m.. Mondav through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office. looted on the third floor ,;f Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:50 p.m. until 3 p.m.. Mon­day though Friday. Deadline li>r next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must he prepaid. either in person or hy mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five charac­
Classifieds 
ters er day. 

LOST a ladies gold seiko watch around  Need Ride to Omaha, NE for Eaater  CAMPUS VIEW APTS... NEED: 2 Female  CONGRATULATIONS  RENEE, HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOU! IT  
NOTICES  and about main or south quad about 2 weeks before spring break--heaps and bunches of sentimental value is attached to it--please call Heather at 3763 if you  1  break, can leave Wednesday. Call Jo_hn_2.48.3.. Ma·k·eaYuppieha~py. HELP RIDE NEEDED TO NYC/LONG  roommates for school yr. 85-8S. For info.call Janet Tabit-277-3967 after 11pm.  NEW SMC JUNIOR CLASS BOARD Maura Barille  IS FINALLY HERE, THE BIG TWENTY ONE SO, GUZZLE A BEER OR TWO OR THREE OR EVEN FQUR AND IF THAT'S NOT ENOUGH THEN HAVE SOME  
have tound it--thanks!  ISLAND FOR EASTER WILL SHARE EX­PENSES PLEASE CALL KATHLEEN AT  ATTEN110N JUNIORS!I Its time to plan for the SENIOR TRIP to the  Mimi Bazzetta  MORE. WAJ..K INTO KINGS CELLAR OH SO CONFIDENTLY CAUSE FOR  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 ······················ woRoPFioc"Eiisit.ia............. . 2n-&045 TYPING Jackie 1101111• 684-8783 HELP HELP Need cash to pay oH backgammon debt of $178. and am forced to sell ENTIRE ROLLING STONES COLLECTION (28 albums plus Shes the Boss). $30 or high­est b1dder. Call 1914. PRO-TYPE Over 14 yrs. experience typing otudent papera, dissertations etc. 2n-5833 Word Processing -Call-Andrea at..2ii3~ 3880 from 9:00 am -11 :00 pm. nPiN'Ci'277~ii·534-~i;;·;;;3ii ...................  Whoever left me in charge of their pearls at the last Dillon SYR, please call me to ci&Jm. Eric Schneeman 3744 FOR RENT I .______________. NEED AN APARTMENT SummerTownhouse available for rent! Ca/12275 for information. WANTED Relative~. t;~~~li~~. ir~;;;. ii1. s~i~tlcl.,;:. ;~ see beloved president. So, I need many COMMENCEMENT tickets. Call 3811 or you may find a guerilla at your door. HISTORY TEACHER, FORMER TRAVEL AGENT, PLANNING SUMMER IN EUROPE, SEEKS PERSON OR PER­SONS WITH SIMILAR PLANS AS TRAVELING COMPANION/S. CALL  2905 I FORSALE FOR SALE:1980 PLYMOUTH CHAMP,TWIN STICK, AM/FM STEREO, RUNS WELL ASKING $800, BUT WILL NEGOTIATE. CALL JEFF 3859. 1978 Pontiac Grand LeMans. Air­conditioned. No rust. One owner, good condition. $2800. 282-1805. 1978 Camaro L T 6 cy/. 3 sp. 1 owner 79000 mi. $2950 John 1486 s~~;;;~rt;·;;~ii ~~~;~i~;~t;~~k~·t;,i';;;~;;;~ rush. Ml>n.-Fri between 12 and 4. Save$ on paperbacks. Fri: 3-6; 50/ off used: 20/ off new. PANDORA S BOOKS, 937 So Bend Ave. 233-2342 PERSONALS  BAHAMAS. Deposits can be paid from NOW til 4/3 at First Sourse Travel offices( Badin and Deccio). They accept all major credit cards.Deposits will be taken in LaFortune, 4/9-4/12(Tues-Fri) from 6:30-8:30pm.THINK BAHAMAS!!! SAINT MARYS OBSERVER WRITERS! Don t forget the MANDATORY meeting for all news and sports writers this Tuesday. April 2, at 6:30p.m. in room 306 Haggar Center. If by chance you can't attend, you must call Tess Guarino at 239-5313 before the meeting. Anyone in­terested in writing is welcome Need ride to Cleveland leaving Thurs.(4/4) of Easter Break. Ca/14174. DEAR BRIAN ISERN -YOUNGEST BROTHER OF MARTA BUSHKA DRINK BEER, SHOOT POOL DRINK BEER. SHOOT POOL DRINK BEER, SHOOT POOL DRINK BEER, SHOOT POOL DRINK BEER, SHOOT POOL SINCERELY, YOUR BROTHERS TO BE  Jenny Blanz Sheila Coyne Kathleen Dailey Rosie Depasquale Katie Francis Lisa Galicki SueGoett Laura Harris Gina Hazel Maureen Hearne Sara Honnigford Danielle Kleinrichert Alice Kroeger TerryLemp Sue McCrory  ONCE IN YOUR LIFE ITS YOUR OWN /.D. NO BARTENDER OR BOUNCER CAN TURN YOU AWAY BECAUSE YOU ARE LEGAL AS OF TODAY. INTO CORBYS AND BRIDGET'S YOU CAN GO WITH EASE AND IF YOU CARE TO EVEN MR. D S. HAPPY BIRTHDAY RENEE HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOU AL­WAYS REMEMBER YOUR ROOM MATE LOVES YOU! ATTN; E.M.CASSIDY'S LEFT FOOT You abandoned me and I have fallen into sadistic hands. If you care at all about me­-or my mate whom Ihaven't seen in days-~ revisit the "phonebooth. Bring odor·eaters w/you CLASS OF '87 Junior Advisory Board and Committee applications are now avaitable until Wed April 3 in the Student Activities Office on 1st floor LaFortune. Applica­tions due Wed at 5:00. London students welcome. GET INVOLVED!/! Marta, Thanks, you made my day The Boy Congratulations. Kevin ''The Boss· Her­ 
·····auiii<Arc6i.1-;;uriificENreii....... SOFTWARE AND ACCESSORIES FOR MACINTOSH. BEST SELECTION SUPER LOW PRICES. ALL SOFTWARE 20-50/ OFF 3105 MISHAWAKA AVE. 287-3344 rvPING·;:;;;;;;·;;~;;~:· ;~~~-;;;~-.--i;;ii~. manuscripts. Reasonable rateto; pickup & delivery on campuses available. Call Mrs. Schultz between 5-10 pm 2n-5134. -r.;~ sociAL..coNcE.FiN·s-Fii:i:4·s·fij;iifis presents the 111m BROTHER SUN SISTER MOON on Sunday March 31 and MondayApri/1, at 7:00and 9:15pmalthe Engineering Auditorium. LOST/F~UND I found: one basketball call jim 1747  JACK YOUNG: 616-683-0547, Ex.G6. . ····························································· Need ride to Md./D.C. area. Andy, 1409 PHii.i.v' PHILi.v, ii(;l:.\wA:ii(;?,? ;;,~~~e call284-5118 it our interests meet. Call at any hour. P.S.I!ike road trips. Do You? Need ride to Erie. BuHa/o, Rochester on 4/3. Susie 2283 -~sExi~ oc-~i ~~~d~·;;d~~nd~~~~~a~~ anytime. Dave 232-0554 ······························································· Ride Needed To Maaaachuoetta Help me, I stayed here for spring break and I must get out of South Bend before 1 go crazy!!!! Can leave at noon on Wed­nesday. Will share usual. Call Paul at 2275. NEED ride to N.Y. C. call Gary 1489 Need 2 rides to ST.LOUIS ;;,; c~~ ~~~~-e afternoon 4/3. Gal/Laura at 4673. need ride to mot own john 3167  OAR HOUSE: COLD IIEER I UOUOR, CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 11 N., ONE IILOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. HUNGRY? CALL THE YELLOW SUB FOR FREE DELIVERY 272-4453 MO-TH 8-11pm FR-SA 8pm-1am NEED RIDE TO MILWAUKEE ON WED APR 3$$$$ CALL MIKE 1821 ATTENTION JUNIORS reservations are still available for the CHICAGO ROADTRIP on April13 Cata tix only $35 Cubblea tix only $17 "an evening oi fun, baseball, culture and debauchr.ry in /he Windy City· call Dan nowat1"187 MUD VOLLEYBALL S/GNUPS ·AnTos­la/ Off1ce,LaFortune from 3-5pm. Signups March 28-Apn/ 4. Info: Call Janet Tabit 277-3967,or Matt Corrigan 283-2465.  THE CHAMELEON IS BACK! HIS COLORS ARE CHANGED FOR SPRING! MAXELL XL90'a 101or$22 This week only at Rock du Lac Records, first floor LaFortune. Carrie, Congratulations on Med School acceptance. were proud of you, love Fred and Ethyl Yea indeed, Tampa miaeea the attrec­tione: Thunderloot~~the fastest driver Beer guzzler--she loves to spill The green speedo watcher-~has trouble getting off exits "The Natural· looker--loves Danmouth College baseball and Miss attraction herSelf, all the way from the Magic Kingdom Now featured at P.W. for a limited time only.  Kristi McKasy Amy Nies B.A. Otto Anne Piacentine Dee Dee Shary Julie Spa/a Karen Strimas Lisa Wittenkeller ITS GOING TO BE A GREAT YEARI MICHELLE, BETSY, KATIE AND ANGIE JIM TABOR CORE COURSE Player of the week: Tim Lyons  bert! Remember us in your fame and fortune' We love ya, Dorothy, Ronda, Kris. Stacie RUTH & LINDA Here·s to good friends' Glad you could make it. Love ya'! Karen Nick, I hope you catch up on all your work. I had a wonderlul time visiting. You have wonderful FRIENDS!!! Love Lisa A WE'RE FOOLS SALE ALL APRIL FOOLS WEEK: Maxe/1 XLII's: 10 lor $22 Limit two. We will beat any price' Rock du Lac Recorde first floor LaFortune TWINKlE, Cant wait till next year roomie' 324 McCandless will rule (and that s not greasy kid stuff!) Pandas and hippos go together. don't they? Love, Your Thin Thighs Partner If we lived in Dillon Hall wed vote for John Hausman John Walsh Dan Thompson John Walters  


The Observer Monday, April 1, 1985 -page 6 
Irish track team performs well in Notre Dame Invitational Saturday 
compete in other events which Gilmore, Mitch Van Eyken Dan Shan­
gives us flexibility. This early in the non and Pearcy won the 400 with a season, there are many benefits for time of :41.6., which was also a meet having a non-scoring meet," he said. record. 
Most of the competitors probably Piane was also impressed by the wished that it was still the indoor performances ofseveral other mem­season after going outside on Satur­bers of the Irish track team. Brian day. A temperature in the low 40's Driscoll won the javelin event with a and a strong wind are not exactly throw of 185-7, while having to con­ideal conditions for an outdoor track tend with a stiff wind. Rich Mulvey meet. Western Michigan, in fact, was topped the field in the steeplechase so discouraged by the cloudy sky in 9:36. Robert Nobles also ran well, and the cold temperature that it finishing second in the 800. thought snow was coming, so they This was the first meet of the out­decided to stay home. door season for the Notre Dame 
Not everyone was so pessimistic track team. It was good preparation about the weather, fortunately. for the Irish as they get ready for Leading the way for the Irish was some very competive upcoming Van Pearcy, who set a meet record meets. time of :21.5 in the 200. Pearcy was As Piane said, "It was a very suc­also a member ofthe winning 4x400 cessful afternoon in terms of what relay team. The quartet of Phil we had hoped to accomplish". 
lllllllllllllllllltlllllll~llllltllllllltiiiiNIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIttllllltllllllllllllllltllll.lll! 
'I : 
Class of'87 I 
i 

Junior Advisory Board & CommitteeI AppUcations avaUable now untU Wed, April 3rd in Student Activities Office on 1st floor LaFortu.ne. Applicationsl due Wed 5:00. London students I 1l welcome! i l ..............................................................................................i 
ByJOHN COYLE 
Sports Writer 
Though you couldn't tell from the 
score -because there wasn't any ­
the Notre Dame track team did very 
well in the Notre Dame Invitational 
on Monogram Track at Cartier Field 
on Saturday. Since this was a non­
scoring meet, there was no combined score for each team com­peting. This type of format was per­fect for his team, according to Irish head coach joe Plane. 
"People don't understand the reasons for a non-scoring meet," ex­plained Plane. "They always ask if you won or lost. '!bey don't under­stand the concept. People forget that the Olympics is a non-scoring meet. 
"It enables us to run more guys in 
some events. Also, the format allows 
us to experiment by having guys 
Golf 
continuedfrom page 8 
winds, three Irish golfers recorded scores in the 70's for Saturday's match. 
O'Donovan led the field with a remarkable round of 74, while Fuh­rer was just one stroke back with a 7'). Huffman was the third Irish gol­fer under 80 with a score of 79. 
Irish head coach Noel O'Sullivan 
said he was quite pleased with his 
team's performance. Although he had hoped for a course record this weekend, O'Sullivan conceded that the playing conditions made a course record virtually impossible. 
"Our consistency this weekend, especially under such adverse con­ditions, was brilliant," said O'Sullivan. 
Notre Dame's low scores would 
surely have been lower were it not 
for such terrible conditions. Accor­
ding to O'Donovan, this weekend's 
weather was "the worst two days in 
a row I've played." 
The Irish were disappointed that they didn't have better conditions to go after the course record, but with­out a single senior, this team can only get better. 


STRESS 
MANAGEMENT 
A Four Part series: 

Tues &Thurs, April2,4,9,11 7:00·8:30 
unseling &Psychological Services Room300 

!i :  S.O.A.P Students on Alcohol Problems Meeting on Mondays 4:00 ­5:00 pm  i :!  
!  Counseling &Psychologicai Services  i  
:  Center rm. 316  :  
:  Do you have some ideas about alcohol?  :  
:i  Would you like to share them with other students who may also be like you?  :!  

: Call239-5085 or stop by C.8tPSC. (Mon. & Thurs.) :
............................... ··········•····· 

It's never too late to become a bronze God or Goddess! 
Deepen that Spring Break tan. Call us at 277-7026 
TAN-HAWA~ 
J.M.S. PLAZA 
4609 Grape Road Mishawaka 


Notre Dame Avenue Apartments NOWRENTING FORFALL 
Completely furnished, balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence,­all deluxe features 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES (good deals for Summer Session) 
Oftlce at 820 ND Ave 
or caD 

open Mon-Fri 3-6pm 
234-6647

Sat ll-3pm 
Off Campus Seniors Pickup your senior month booklets 
April 2nd & April 3d from 11:00-1:00 at the South Dining Hall or 5:00-7:00 in Lafortune at the Ombud Desk 
AHention Saint Mary's writers (sports and news) 
There will be a mandatory meeting for all Observer writers Tuesday, April 2 at 6:30 in 306 Haggar College Center. Anyone not able to attend should call Tess Guarino at 239-5313. All interested in writing are invited to attend. 

ANNOUNCING OUR NEW OFFICE 1341 PORTAGE AVENUE Martin's Shopping Center (219) 2~--.-:;.-..-... Professional Vision ASSOCIATES Dr. Ronald L. Snyder Dr. Patrick Albert Or. Jeffrey Coppes 1135'N.Ironwood 1341 Porwge 4112 W. Wntern 932 E. Ireland 277-1111 ·234-2400 287-5949 291-7676 North of McDonald's Martin's Shopping Ctr. Belleville' Shopping Ctr. Colony Cleaners Bldg.  

The 1986 DOME 
Now accepting applications for: 
-Photography Editor 
Applications are available 

-Managing Editor 
in the Student Activities -Copy Editor 
Office and must be returned before Easter Break.
-Section Editors -Business Manager 
~c:tcJlC3L~-----------------------------------M-on_d_ay_,A_p_r_il_l,_l_98_5__
p_a_ge--7 

Bloom County 
50 ~ €10 Ot/T10 tW55 t.YlA r£RI<5, VHY5 m ~ y(}(/Mj 1lXJAY. IWP IN EUXXr1 
COWTY, MR.P.OPf/5 15 CIUNumN& 7!7 STT?At6HT MOMH5 Of ~ll 611CIEi.OI?HOOil / ' ' I 
' 


Zeto 

Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
Kevin Walsh 
HA W\!f 
/ffiiLFCClS!! 


Campus 
•-BloodDrive Sign-ups,Saint Mary's Dining Dinner Menus Halls, Blood Drive to be Held on April 11 & 12, Sponsored by St. Mary's Senior Class. Notre Dame Yankee pot roast•6:30 p.m. ­Meeting, "Fruitbasket Fun," Grace Turkey rice casseroleHall Pit, Sponsored by AIESEC. Individual Swiss cheese quiche• 7 & 9:15 p.m. -FUm, "Brother Sun, Sister Moon," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored Saint Mary'sby Social Concerns Spring Film Series, S1. Deep dish vegetable pie•7 p.m. -Meeting, For Student Concerned Bean tostadaAbout Central America, Duarte's Role at Com· Turkey divan mencement, Center for Social Concerns. Baked meat loaf TV Tonight 6:00p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 ~:OOp.m. 16 Movie· A.D. (Pt. II) 22 22 Eyewitness News 22 NCAA Basketball Championship 28 Newswatch 28 Game 6:30p.m. 16 NBC Nightly News 28 Movie · Love lives On 22 CBS Evening News 34 American Playhouse 28 ABC World News Tonight ll:OOp.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 7:00p.m. 16 M*A*S*H 28 Newswatch 28 22 Three's Company 34 Body Electric 28 Jeopardy 11:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 7:30p.m.· 16 Barney Miller 22 22 Eyewitness News 22 WKRP in Cincinnati 28 ABC News Nightline 28 Wheel ofFortune 34 Movie-At War With The Army 8:00p.m. 16 TV Bloopers & Practical Jokes !2:00a.m. 22 Simon & Simon/McMillan 22 Scarecrow & Mrs. King 28 Love Connection 28 Hardcastle & McCormick 12:30a.m. 16 Late Night With David Letterman 34 Ancient lives 2:30a.m. 22 Nightwatch  
Help Prevent Birth Defects­The Nation's Number One Child Health Problem. ~March of Dimes ~ --iiBIRTH DEFECTS FOUNDATION-illil  


TU!~~,. $1\YI 
a'~ee~N' •~N•~•~ ~~~ 


Better Prices 

than that nather stare" an campus Schaal supplies * Health & Beauty needs 
2nd Flaar LaFartune 

Class of 1988••• 
Plans for Sophomore Literary Festival1986 are beginning... *positions needed:Sophomore Literary Festival 
*Chairman, executive committee members
* pick up applications 2nd floor LaFortune, SAB offices *deadline for applications is Friday, Aprill2 
Get Involved! 
Monday, April 1, 1985-page 8
S~orts 


Irish lacrosse team beats Kenyon to stay undefeated in conference 
ByPHILWOLF played this year," Irish head coach halftime and 12-2 before Kenyon Assistant Sports Editor Rich O'Leary said. "That's something scored again. we've worked on. We haven't The game was played under less­
The Notre Dame lacrosse team changed much since the beginning than-ideal conditions. lbe officials took a "ride" to victory Saturday af­of the year, but this wa<; the best we were more than an hour late, and the ternoon on Cartier Field. have looked on it, and it made a big teams practiced for an hour-and-a­
It was the ride, the defense that difference.early in the game." half in rain and sleet before the game continually prevented Kenyon Col­Ofcourse, the Irish still needed to began. High winds persisted lege from clearing the ball from its generate some offense to come away throughout the game, and Cartier's defensive zone, that helped the Irish with 14 points on the board, and astroturfwas wet from recent rain. beat the Lords, 14-8. they found plenty of people to do "I think with these conditions," 
"It began in the first quarter," the scoring. Senior co-captain Bob O'Leary said, "we were real happy Kenyon coach Bill Heiser explained. Trocchi scored four goals and gave that WtJ Started off well, and we "The first three times we got posses­away four assist.<; to lead the scoring managed to control the game sion, we failed to clear and we barrage. Junior Joe Franklin had throughout the whole contest. weren't successful for the rest of the three goals and two assists for the "Our olknse managed to create time, really. Irish, and junior Mark Steranka some opportunities, something we 
"I think Notre Dame rode very scored three goals, all of them in the worked on the last two days. We did well," he continued. "They used a first half. a real nice job of that. We also took full-field, pressure-type ride which advantage of their (the Lords') we haven't worked altainst much Joe O'Brien scored two goals and mistakes throughout the entire and we haven't seen yet all season co-captain Justin Shay had one to game, something we haven't done from our opponents. round out the scoring. John up till now." 
"That was our biggest problem," McLachlan and Dave O'Neill each The Lords scored three con­Heiser concluded. "In fact, it was the had one a'isist. secutive goals in the third period only thing we talked about every Shay's goal put the Irish ahead, 7-before-the Irish answered and went timeout and at halftime." 2, with 6:17 remaining in the first ahead, 14-<;. In the fourth quarter 'Ibe Irish ride held the Lords to half, when the defenseman picked Notre Dame failed to score, but Sophomore defensemanjtm Fallon and his lacrosse teammates only 14 clears in 27 attempts, while off a pa'>s in the Notre Dame defen­Kenyon's three goal;; were not Notre Dame was able to get the ball sive zone and went 60 yards for the enough to get the Lords back in the
raised their season record to 3-3 with a 14-8 victory over the 

out ofits defensive zone on 14 of 1 7 shot. game.
Kenyon College Lords on Saturday. For more on the contest, see Phil 

tries. The Irish hurled 47 shots at the
Wolfs story at right. 

"That's the best our ride has The Irish scored the first two Lords' goal during the game, forcing goals in the game less than 40 Kenyon goaltes Bill Broda and Peter seconds apart, at 2:08 and 2:4 7 ofthe Houston to make 20 saves. Notre
Women fall to 10-2 on season 

first quarter. Notre Dame led, 4-1, at Dame goalie Rob Simpson made I <; the end of that period. saves on 27 shots at the Irish goal. In the second quarter, Kenyon Notre Dame's record now is 3-3
Tennis team loses to Hoosiers 
opened the scoring at 0:27, but the and 2-0 in the Midwest Lacrosse As­Lords did not score again until early sociation. The Lords fell to 1-2. 
By MARY SIEGER doubles pairs split their matches "But we must develop a killer in­in the third quarter. Meanwhile, the The Irish will play host to Radford 
Sports Writer with Indiana. stinct when we're up." 
Irish offense began to click, and at 3:30p.m. on Wednesday on Car­"We could have done better and "I think people realize now they 
Notre Dame went ahead, 10-2, at tier Field. The Notre Dame women's tennis our concentration was not as in­can beat people they're not team went on an emotional tense as it could have been," ex­supposed to beat," reflected rollercoaster ride as the Irish lost plained Irish head coach Sharon LaFraua. "We can't give up before 
Golfers continue to pl~y well 
their second dual meet of the spring Petro. "Our doubles went up and we get on the court." season to the Indiana Hoosiers, 9-0, down and up and down. We had Earlier this weekend, the Irish 
in two victories this weekend
yesterday in the South Bend Racquet fleeting moments of concentration, claimed two victories against Brad­Club. then they built up their momen­ley and Drake Universities, bringing By SEAN MURPHY of 73 was the lowest recorded all 
However, the meet was closer tum." the team's spring record to 10-2. Sports Writer weekend. After firing a two-over-par than the final 9·0 score indicates, Notre Dame overwhelmed Bradley, 38 on the front nine, Connelly and the Irish almost prevented the Since Indiana is ranked twelfth in 8-1, Friday afternoon and later went Although this weekend's weather parred the back nine, finishing his shut-out in four of their nine the NCAA Division I and offers full on to drub Drake, 9-0, Saturday mor­was hardly conducive to good golf, round with birdies on 15, 16, and 18. matches. scholarships to its players, the Irish ning. the Irish golfteam made the best ofit Junior Lon Huffman was just two 
With the exception ofjunior Mary did not anticipate a victory over the Tommorow, Notre Dame plays by winning both of their weekend strokes behind Connelly, finishing Colligan playing at number-two Hoosiers. After yesterday's meet, the host to a tough squad from Western matches at Burke Memorial Golf with a 75. Huffman's round was singles, Notre Dame was dominated Irish proved to themselves they are Michigan University in a dual meet Course. highlighted by an eagle on the par­by the top ranked Hoosiers in the competitive with tennis power­which probably will not be decided Yesterday, the Irish beat Wayne five fifth hole. After two tremendous singles competition. houses and hope the rivalry be­until the last set. On Saturday, West· State and Xavier in a triangular drives, Huffman sank a 70·foot putt 
tween the two schools will continue ern Michigan lost to the Hoosiers by match, and Saturday they defeated for the eagle. 
"'!bey have good singles players," in the future. a score of7-2, claiming its only wins Tri-State, 389·41 0. Finishing two strokes behind Huf­said senior co-captain Lisa LaFratta. "I hope we can learn from this and at number-two singles and number­Yesterday's triangular match fman with a score of 77 was sopho­"Mary played well and might have do better in the future -if not, it's a one doubles. against Wayne State and Xavier saw more Chris Bona. Team captainJohn pulled it out, but her girl got more terrible loss," said Petro. "If we're "We should get two of the strong winds which hampered shots O'Donovan shot a 78 yesterday, consistent." up, we must work extremely hard doubles," said LaFratta. "It will prob­all day. Notre Dame won the match while both Steve Fuhrer and John 
But it was a different story when and remember a meet isn't won until ably come down to the doubles, and with a score of 382, well below Anthony recorded scores of79. the doubles teams took to the court. the last point is scored. ifit does, we could get the meet." Wayne State's 413 and Xavier's 44 5. Despite bitter cold and strong The Irish gave the Hoosiers a run for "We're known to be scrappy "We've not defeated them before Leading the way yesterday was 
see GOLF, page 6

their money, as all three Notre Dame when we're down," she continued. and I'm tired of losing," said Petro. freshman Rich Connelly. His score 
Football team shows hard hitting in first spring scrimmage 
By MARlY BURNS '!be tenacious hitting which charac­of the spring," noted Faust. "We had thrown throughout the entire "But it was primarily for the defense. Sports Writer terized the practice was, in his eyes, so many injuries last year, it all got practice, and very few variations in We put that in so that the defense anything but ugly. changed around anyway. We're just the defensive formation. could learn to play it." 
It wa~ not a pretty sight at Notre "I was impressed with the hit­mixing them up this year." "We didn't run a whole lot of of­Another type of option, the Dame Stadium early Saturday mor­ting," said Faust. "Today, we were No score was kept, as the three fense," admitted Faust. "We've hallhack option, was responsible for ning as the Notre Dame football mainly interested in the hitting and uriits moved the ball only between moved a lot faster in the past in the longest pa-;s completion of the team took to the field for its first in­the execution. We just wanted to the 20-yard lines. Once all three terms of putting things in. This day. On the very first series of plays, tra~quad scrimmage of the spring find out who could run, hit, and units were finished with their I 4 spring we're taking a different ap· tailback Lester Flemons ( I 1 carries ­season. block, for this is where we develop plays, however, the ball wa<; placed proach, ·and (Saturday) we wanted 71 yards) took the pitch from quar­
Dark cloud..~ loomed over the the football team." at the three-yard line, and the units them just to go right at it. terback Terry Andrysiak, and then cold, damp stadium, and one of the Saturday's scrimmage should then rotated punching the ball into One offensive formation foreign tossed the ball downfield to receiver goalposts leaned over to one side, a indeed be a good stepping-stone for the endzone against the goal-line to Faust's past teams which was used Tim Brown for a 27-yard pickup. forgotten ca~ualty of the student the remainder of the spring season, defense. often Saturday wa'> the option, al­Ironically, this same play body's ambush after the rout ofPenn for over 70 Irish players saw action, "We were not interested in how though. the fifth-year Notre Dame backfired later in the day when tail­State last Nov.l7. many of them for the first time in un­many times we scored," said Faust. coach instituted the formation more back Alonzo ]efferson (six carries· 
'Ibings didn't really get ugly, familiar roles. "We were just concerned about the for the benefit of the defense than 44 yards). teaming with quarterback though, until the Irish took the field. The squad was divided up for the agressiveness and the execution. We for the offense. Tom Byrne on the No.2 offensive That's when the hitting began. Just scrimmage into three offensive units went down to the goal line because Stopping the option has been adif unit, unjudiciously attempted a pass about every Irish player responded and three defensive units. The units we had just lined that up (Friday) for ficult chore in the past for the Notre while beingpulled down by the Irish favorably to the challenge, and consisted of a mixture of players the first time, and we wanted to see Dame defense, and one of the Irish defense. lbe ball nestled comfor­several crushing tackles rang out in from all three tiers of the depth it." coaching staff's main objectives this tably into linebacker Cedric Figaro's the air during the two and-a-half­chart, a move made by Faust to keep Apparently, Faust was not inter­spring is to prepare the defense hands, and the 6·3 freshman hours. a-; many people ready as possible in ested in working on any compl· completely to shut down the option promptly took it into the endzone. 
And that wa-; not a bad way to ring case ofinjuries. icated formations or schemes either, offense employed by many of Notre Other than this play, the only con-in the new spring football season, at "We won't make a first or second as simplicity seemed the rule of the Dame's opponents. 
see IRISH, page 5 

Iea<;t for head coach Gerry Faust. unit until later in the year at the end day. There were only 20 passes "We ran a few options," said Faust. 




