
Parietals-
Rhodes quest continues for three 
By MARY HEILMANN the University in the state competi­who received state interviews were: AsslstontNews Editor tions, Hatch said. Greg Dingens, an arts and letters "It's probably as intensive an in­pre-professional and history major; ·Three Notre Dame seniors have ternal process as exists in any Carl Krill, a physics and philosophy been selected as regional finalists in university," Hatch added, explaining major who also was nominated for the Rhodes scholarship competi­that the endorsement committee the Marshall scholarship; Dava New­tion, one of whom also has won the wanted those students chosen to man, an aerospace engineering Marshall scholarship. have the best possible chance for ad­major; and Sean Reardon, a PLS and 
Greg Abowd, a math and physics vancement in the competition. math major. major from Michigan, was given a After students are endorsed by The University has received no Marshall scholarship, one ofonly 30 their universities, their applications word as yet on Newman's and Krill's chosen nationwide, following his in­are sent to their home-state's com­status in the competition. terview last Monday. Abowd wa,a. mittee, which chooses 12 students The Rhodes scholarship was es­also named a regional finalist from for Interviews. From these 12, the tablished when Cecil Rhodes, a his state for a Rhodes scholarship. state committee endorses two, who successful South African colonist, 
Also advancing to the regional advance to one ofthe eight regional sought to bring people from the competition were Theresa Doering, competitions. These regions then British commonwealth to Oxford, an English and German major from select four Rhodes scholars from the his alma mater. Itgrants two-year fel­South Bend, and John Beretska, a 12 students sent to them by the lowships which enable scholars to science pre-professional major from states. pursue a second undergraduate Minneapolis. "It's a great accomplishment in it­degree or a graduate degree at Ox­
"We're very excited about the self that each of the students en­ford University in England. success ofthe students," said Nathan dorsed by the University received a Hatch, director of the Institute of state Interview," Hatch noted. "Each Like the Rhodes, the Marshall Scholarship in the liberal arts, and state accepts 30 or 40 applications, scholarship provides for two years one ofthe faculty members who was but only chooses 10 to 12 students of study, but It Is applicable to any involved in the application and en­to interview, so in a sense you've British university. dorsement process for the Univer­made a big cut there," he added. If he decides to accept the Mar­sity. Abowd echoed this feeling, shall scholarship, Abowd will study 
Hatch said the University saying, "I think It's important to mathematics at Cambridge Univer­contacted those students in the top stress not so much the fact that I sity. "I'd have a hard time choosing ten percent of the senior class won one of these, because that in­between one or the other (the during the first week of school and volved a lot ofluck. I think someth­Rhodes and Marshall scholarships) invited them to participate in the ing more commendable was just but it's a decision I might not have to competition. Of these students, 29 receiving the interview, because make," Abowd commented. completed applications, which were that's a great accomplishment itself. Abowd and Doering will be inter­examined by a team of four faculty My luck shouldn't be blown out of viewed for the Rhodes scholarship members who chose 14 to inter­proportion." in Chicago this Saturday, while view. This number was then pared In addition to Abowd, Beretska, Beretska will have his interview in to seven students who represented and Doering, Notre Dame students Minneapolis. 
A.llsoclated Press 
WASHINGTON Congress, unable to agree on a multi-billion dollar funding measure for the full fiscal year, whisked through a stop­gap bill yesterday needed to tide many federal agencies over for the weekend and prevent disruption of government services. 
At the same time, administration officials reported progress in their efforts to cajole Republican law­makers into reviving proposals for major overhaul of the tax laws -the top item on President Reagan's second-term domestic agenda. Even so, Representative Richard Gep­hardt, D-Mo., told reporters, "The bill's not dead yet, but the patient is on the table and dying." 
The stopgap spending· measure replaced an existing bill due to expire at midnight, and was ap­proved first by a voice vote in the House. The Senate quickly followed suit, with Senator Mark Hatfield, R­Ore., chairman of the Appropria­tions Committee, saying that the alternative could be the "furloughing of federal employees" ifthe federal till ran dry. 
With the end ofthe congressional session clearly in sight, House and Senate negotiators also made head­way on a compromise long-term farm bill, and labored on a measure to cut federal deficits by as much as $80 billion over the next three years. 
Senate Majority Leader Robert Dole said it would be an "abdication ofeverything we've done all year" if Congress left town without finishing 
258 soldiers on trip home perish during plane tragedy 
GANDER, Newfoundland-A DC-8 charter full ofU.S. soldiers returning from the Middle East crashed and exploded yesterday near Gander In­ternational Airport, killing all 258 aboard and scattering gifts and weapons across snow-covered woods. 
Families and friends learned ofthe disaster as they assembled for a brass-band welcome at the headquarters of the to1st Airborne Division at Fort Campbell, Ky., but carried on with plans for a Christmas music concert as a tribute to the dead. 
Airport employees recalled hearing the exuberant Americans singing carols as they crowded into the duty-free shop. 
"Just about every one of them bought some little thing to take back home," said cashier Cynthia Goodyear. "They were just so happy to be going home." 
Cause of the 6:45 a.m. ( 5:15 a.m. EST) crash remained under inves­tigation, but the White House said preliminary reports showed no in­dication of sabotage or an in-flight explosion in history's eighth-worst aviation disaster. 
The charred cockpit voice and flight recorders were recovered and will be taken to Ottawa for analysis, 
see CRASH, page 4 

an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Maey's 

Six million dollars presented by Kroc for peace studies 

Spedal to The Obeerver 
The University ofNotre Dame has received a $6 million gift from Joan Kroc, widow of Ray Kroc, the founder of the McDonald's res­taurant chain, to establish an In­stitute for Peace Studies. The benefaction Is one ofthe largest per­sonal gifts ever received by the Uni­versity. 
The announcement of the award was made this morning. 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president, said, "In her bold efforts for the cause of global peace, Joan Kroc displays an en­thusiasm harmonious with Notre Dame's deepest institutional aspira­tions. Her generosity will invigorate and dramatically expand several in­itiatives already underway here to promote peace in both the academic and policy-making worlds." 
The institute endowed by Kroc's gift will be directed byJohn Gilligan, former governor of Ohio and now Francis J. O'Malley University Professor at Notre Dame. Gilligan, who has been a fellow at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars and at theJohn F. 

Government approves
Santa Claus seems to need to do some light eating for the holidays as be is shown stuck in a fireplace made by residents of Alumni Hall. The Christmas stockings bung with care are among 


temporary funding bill
many holiday decorationsfound throughout the campus. 
work on the spending cuts. But ot­hers said agreement would be dif­ficult, since many of the proposed cuts involve domestic programs. 
A compromise bailout for the Farm Credit System also was on a short list ofyear-end legislation. 
Weary lawmakers looked forward to the end of the session as Reagan, acting without ceremony, signed landmark legislation designed to force a balanced budget by 1991. That bill was cleared by Congress on Wednesday after months of wran­gling. 
But the controversy lingered as O'Neill blistered the plan as a "fake and a fraud" that would harm the poor, and Representative Mike Synar, D-Okla., filed suit in U.S. Dis­trict Court challenging a provision that could lead to automatic spend­ing cuts. 
The bill signed by the president also raised the debt limit above $2 trillion in time to avoid serious dis­
~CONGRESS, pageS 

Until 1986 
Although Santa's Workshop i! just beginning operations, The Observer production is closi~g This will be the last issue of The Observer before semester break The newspaper will resume publication on Wednesday, Jan 
15. The Observer staff wishes all students, faculty, and staff a safe and happy holiday season. Merry Christmas! 
Kennedy Institute of Politics at Har­vard, was appointed by President Jimmy Carter In 1977 as ad­ministrator of the Agency for Inter­national Development. He has been on Notre Dame's faculty since 1979. 
Among other activities, the new institute will establish peace fellow­ships for young scholars of several nations Including the Soviet Union and the People's Republic of China; consolidate existing courses Into a comprehensive program of peace studies for Notre Dame under­graduate students; develop a multi­disciplinary research program to explore specific aspects of the relationships among human rights, justice and peace; attract eminent scholars to lecture, write and guide the work of peace studies graduate students at Notre Dame and develop a series oflectures and seminars. 
In announcing her gift, Kroc noted, "Father Hesburgh knows that peace on earth won't come through a quick technological fix, but by dealing with the causes of contlict: injustices of all kinds, ignorance, poverty, hunger and disease." 
see KROC, page 3 


Oalgn Editor................. Maur.,.,n Murphy Design A.utstant.........•.•... Mdlasa Warnk" Typesetten............. Mary Ell"n Harrington 
Becky Gundcnnan Typist ........................... Mary Kat" D'Amor" .\wtman...................................... Larry Burk" News Editor .............................Scott &arby Copy Editor ................... Cindy Rauckhorst Sports Copy Editor......... D<:nnls Corrigan VIewpoint Copy Editor .......... Miriam Hill 
VIewpoint LAyout................... Rob Bartolo Features Copy Editor...............Sam Moor" Features Layout.................... Laura Gron"k ND Day Editor ....................... Lynn" Strand SMC Day Editor............................... Mj Sully Ad Design ......................)~" Gramm"ns Mich"ll" Martin 
J~P~ta 
Tom Biafor" Photographer ............... Chaltanya Panchal 

r 
' 
r 
' 
f 
I 
l 
The Observer 



In Brief 

Liberal but apathetic is how the students of Prin­ceton University appear in a recent survey by the school's student newspaper. Of those students who voted in the 1984 election, 62 percent voted for Mondale and 36.7 percent for Reagan. The catch, however, is that only 28.6 percent of those eligible to vote par­ticipated. Overall, 40 percent call themselves Democrats and 24.8 percent Republicans. -The Observer 
A drug to cure baldness has been developed by Upjohn Co., and now awaits approval by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for prescription sales of the drug, the company said yesterday. The drug has been tested as a remedy for both male pat­tern baldness, which is the hair loss many men experience with ad­vancing age, and patchy baldness, which is an unusual massive loss of hair all over the body, an Upjohn spokesman said. Upjohn hopes to market the drug as a prescription medicine under the trade name Regalne. -AP 
Of Interest 

Notre Dame's Shakespeare Club will hold its second annual Christmas celebration tonight from 7 to 9:30 p.m. The celebration includes a candlelit three-course meal, drama and music. A limited supply of tickets is available at the English depart­ment office, Room 309 O'Shaughnessy. The price is 13.50 for stu­dents, 17 for faculty. -The Observer 
Parietals at Saint Mary's during final exam week are as follows: there will be no male visitation from today until Sun­day. Regular parietals hours will resume on Monday. -The Observer 
New Jersey Christmas bus sign-ups are today from 1 to 3 at the OBUD desk at LaFortune Student Center. Stops Include East Brunswick and New York City. The price ofa round trip ticket is $80. -The Observer 
A Freshman Class Mass will be held on Sunday, Dec. 1 5 at 2 in Sacred Heart Church. The Mass will be celebrated by Father Andre Leveille. A collection will be taken up for Kevin Hurley. -The Observer 
The Clark Telecommunications omce in Memorial Ubrary will be dosed for the semester break beginning Dec. 21. Any questions or problems during break can be directed to a Clark representative at 282-3838.-The Observer 
A holiday Mass and reception sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of St. joseph Valley will be held on Sunday, Dec. I 5 at 4 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. Father Theodore Hes­burgh, University president, will be the celebrant. A reception will be held afterward. -The Observer 

Weather 
Since we've no place to go, 
let it snow, let it snow. . . Seventy percent chance of snow showers today and tonight. Cold tonight with lows of five to 1 5, and a northwest wind 10 to 20 miles per hour. Snow accumulation possible. Chance ofsnow tlurries tomorrow with a high in the low 20s. -AP 

lb., OtM.,rv.,r (I'SPS ~99 l--4000) is published Monday through Friday "xcep1 during exam and vacation periods. lb., ObK""r is published by the students ofthe llniv.,rsily of Notre l>am" and Saini Mary's CoiiCl!e. Subscriptions may be purchased for HO per year ( JlO per scm.,st<-r) by writing "Ow QtM.,""r, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dam.,. Indiana -tM~6. 
"Ow O~""r IS a member of lb., "->elated ...-.,._ All reproduction rights arr rrvrvrd 
Friday, December 13, 1985-page 2 

Up on the dormtop 
Up on the dormtop Reindeers said, "Wbere's our driver, Santa Ted. 
"He's due here with Sacks oftoys, Allfor goodDomer 
Girls and boys." 
First comes the stocking 
Oflittle Bill, Ob dear Santa, Load it well. 

Give him a senate that doesn'tpout, Anda smirk that won't wear out. 
Next comes the stocking Oflittle Lou, Ob dear Santa, Fill it, do. Give him a team that will win, win, win, Cause Utlder the Dome, losing's a sin. 
Last here's the stocking Ofthe Danny Dome, Ob dear Santa, Send him home. Give him a final like ice cream cake, Cause ifbefails, Mom's heart will break. 
And next semester, please help him through, Please try to give him a date or two. Give him a sky that's odor-free, AndRA.'sand rectors who cannotsee. 
Ho!Ho!Ho! Who wouldn'tgo? Ho!Ho!Ho! Up on the dormtop, Ina sled, Offto Santo Domingo With Santa Ted'. 

ByAmy Stephan 
Ho!Ho!Ho! Who wouldn'tgo? Ho!Ho!Ho! Up on the dormtop, Ina sled, Offto Santo Domingo With Santa Ted. 
Now comes the stocking OfAnnie Firth, Ob dear Santa, Don't leave a dearth, Do a favor to allgood Darners, Take her home and bring back Roemer. 
Next comes the stocking Oflittle Dave, Santa dear, tell Whatyou gave. Slingshots andsquirtguns and teddy bears, Andsome real neatplastic hair. 

Just in Time for Christmas! 


The Observer Friday, December 13, 1985 -page 3 
Resident assistant fonns due at beginning of semester 


····································-···~······ 
_.,CARACAS~RENADA~AN .WAJV--ICURACA~T. THOMAS 

Why Spend YourSpringBreak on a Hurn-drurn Vacation••• 
Relax in ~uxury on an Exotic CARIBBEAN CRUISE 
)rarrr_.,...._.~ l
PRICES: l Dining 6 tiaat~-• daily
beginning at $975 per person(4 to a cabin) and $1095 per person(2 to a cabin) i h~
top-notch entertainaaent n gFREE round-trip airfare froiD Chicago to San daan. Puerto ilicCJ CALL VS FOR FVLL DETAILS! Reservations made on a.first-come,.first·serve basi8. Tr•v•l Lav•r•• Club 21!1-2!11-58&!1 2!11-2!12!1 
: 
i• 

]oanKroc

• 
teacher and director of music for

i 
KSTP-TV in Minneapolis. She moved 
with her husband to San Diego in

-:• 
1974 when he purchased the San

• · Diego Padres baseball team and has 
lived there ever since. In 1976, she founded Operation

.·.·. 
Cork, an educational program on the

• 
problems of drug and alcohol abuse.

• 
. 
~ The program promotes the es­tablishment of employee assistance 
programs in American businesses to

• combat chemical dependence and 
other problems affecting job perfor­! mance and personal relationships.
•
• 
In addition to her financial gifts to

• 
pro-disarmament organizations like

•
• 
:: the Center for Defense Information and Mothers Embracing Nuclear Disarmament, Kroc recently com­
: missioned the printing of 500,000
• 
paperback copies of disarmament! activist Helen Caldicott's book, "Missile Envy" for free distribution 
•: 
to leaders in government and educa­tion. 

ByJAMES BRENNAN 
News Staff 
Students interested in becoming resident assistants at Notre Dame next year can pick up their applica­tions untilJan. 17 at the Office ofStu­dent Affairs. The selection process will begin Jan. 24 and will last until March 10. 
Any present or prospective senior or graduate/professional student who has achieved a minimum 3.0 cumulative grade point average by the end of this semester is eligible for the selection process, according to a memorandum issued by As­sociate Vice President for Residence life John Goldrick. 
Financial need is not a require-
Featuring 24 bulb beds with facial Unit. Our large, contoured beds are over 7 feet tong and provide a 360° tan. 2314 So. Bend Ave.(next to Martins) Call for appointment 277-6444 Open 7-9 Mon-Frl 8-8 Saturday 
ment; applicants do not have to file the Financial Aid Form. An ap­plicant's financial circumstances, however, may be considered by the rector. Applicants should limit their hall preferences to their own residence hall or any other hall, ac­cording to the memo sent to hall rectors and assistant rectors. 
As compensation for their services, resident assistants are provided room, board and laundry. 
Resident assistants perform many duties and services for their dorms. Working under the direction of the rector, resident assistants help en­force University rules and work with the students to maintain an atmo­sphere conducive to their growth, according to a general description provided by the Office ofStudent Af­fairs. 
The description says resident as­sistants are expected to be available to the students and to help them with their needs, whether academic, social, personal or physical. They also are expected to display leader­ship and maturity in their own per­sonal lives. 
Candidates must include three recommendations in their applica­tions. It is preferable that two recommendations come from faculty members or advisors and that the third come from a former employer. Prospective law school students must include a formal letter of approval from the assistant dean for academic a1Jairs at Notre Dame 

Tbe Observer is always looking for new talent. Ifyou are in­terested in newspaper writing or newspaperproduction, stop up at Tbe Observer office on tbe3rdfloor ofLaFortune. 
Saint Mary's Theatre 
announces auditionsfor 
SIDE STORY 
in the Darlce Studio, Saint Mary's at 7:10p.m. 
The readin~d musical auditions: Wednesday, Jan. 15, and Th'Ursday, Jan. 16 in O'Laughlin
'
Saint Mary's, 7:10p.m. 

Prepare two contras~g short monologues and a song from West Side Sto'ry. 
Law School. 
The Office ofStudent Affairs must receive all applications, recom­mendations, and letters of approval by the Jan. 24 deadline. Any applica­tions submitted after the deadline will not be considered. 
In the initial stage ofthe selection process, senior staff members of the Office of Student Affairs will review all the applications. They look for completeness, any negative recom­mendations, and the applicant's grade point average. On Feb. 3 the office will notify the rectors which applicants have been approved for further consideration. It also will 
notify all approved or unapproved 
candidates ofits decisions. 
Applicants approved by the Office 
•i12' Medium PIZZA (any topping)1· •• 
! with extra cheese 
i• PLUS 
•

! Garlic Bread with cheese
•

: Delivery Orders Only
• 

(plus delivery and tax) 
• • $5.25
·=·· 
•

f Limited Delivery Area 
.

• ~ 
• 

i ~Pizza
•
•
• 

: Dohory .._..,._____
: 52929 u.s.31 rtorth 
: 277-5880
•

! Good/orSundaysandMondays : only wltla coupon
• 
of Student Affairs must contact the rector of their listed hall preference in order to arrange an interview. All interviews must be completed prior to March 3. The specific qualities a rector looks for in an applicant are left completely to his or her discre­tion. 
By March 3. the rectors will have interviewed and selected applicants and notified the Office ofStudent Af­fairs of their decisions. If the Office of Student Affairs concurs with the rectors' choices it will send letters of appointment to the selected can­didates on March 10. At that time, it also will notify all unapproved can­didates. Those selected must sign 
appointment contracts in the Office 
ofStudent Affairs on March 31. 





Kroc 
continuedfrom page 1 
On May 30 of this year, Kroc 
published full-page advertisements 
in major newspapers calling on 
citizens troubled by the nuclear 
arms race to share their views with 
elected representatives. On July 17, 
she published similar advertise­
ments in 94 newspapers suggesting 
that readers urge President Reagan 
and Secretary Gorbachev to agree 
on a halt to nuclear weapons testing 
at their November summit meeting 
in Geneva. 
Before her marriage to Ray Kroc, Mrs. Kroc, a native of Saint Paul, ,Minn., worked as a musician, music 

~ 
r 
r 
r r 
f r 
r 
r r 
r 
' 
r
, 
~ 
r 
r 
r 
The Observer 


Brother discouraged about summit conducts one-man demonstration 
By MEG EGAN  towards unilateral disarmament, a  wording, "Russia Stopped Testing.  
NewsS14ff  step so significant that he was wil­ Why Don't We?" would cause  
ling to don a sandwich-board  negative reactions to the protest,  
The recent summit between the  placard and stand at North Dining  rather than arousing responsible  
United States and the Soviet Union  Hall to tell people about it.  awareness, Mewes said.  
was a failure, according to Brother  Mewes said he believes the press  Mewes, who describes himself  
Bill Mewes, member of the Holy  has all but ignored the issue, and so  as"basically a full-time student," has  
Cross order and nuclear activist.  he has taken upon himself the job of  spent a total of 13 years at Notre  
Armed with several hundred fliers  advenising it.  Dame. His student-status may cause  
and a placard stating, "Russia  "There's a real lack of awareness,  him to refrain from future  
Stopped Testing. Why Don't We?"  both at Notre Dame and across the  demonstrations. "I've gotten to a  
Mewes Initiated a one-man nuclear  nation, that the Russians have  point where I've got to cut back. I  
demonstration in Nonh Dining Hall  stopped testing. . . and the emphasis  had a big talk with myself. Since I'm  
on Dec. 4.  here is to let people know that the  here to study I'd better spend more  
Mewes demonstrated in response  Russians have hil.ted testing and we  time with the books and let other  
to President Reagan's tailure to com­ haven't We're at a tremendous op­ people do it (demonstrate)," he  
ply to a Soviet proposal for a uni­ ponunity here for a unilateral halt."  said.  
lateral halt to nuclear weapons  Mewes first became active in the  
testing, he said.  Students responded quietly to  nuclear issue when he "realized we  
The Soviet Union halted all  Mewes's lunchtime demonstration,  wert: going to blow ourselves up."  
nuclear testing on August 6. It will  he said. "Most of the students just  Mewes said he believes that the so­ 
not resume testing until Jan. 1, 1986,  took them (his fliers). I passed out  called "arms race" between rrhe  
according to Mewes. The Soviets  about 500 orso at Nonh Dining Hall.  United States and the Soviet Union is  
have presented the possibility of  Five to 10 refused to take them, two  leading the two countries to im­ 
eliminating all tests beyond that  or three had positive remarks, and  minent nuclear disaster.  
date, but only if the United States  two or three had negative," Mewes  He said he believes that this rate of  
does the same, he added.  said.  proliferation, coupled with the race  
Mewes worked single-handedly  for technological superiority, can  
Thus far, President Reagan has  because he "couldn't get anybody  lead only to destruction. Both  
refused to halt nuclear weapons tes­ else to do it," he said. A steering  countries run their nuclear systems  
ting. If he continues his refusal, the  committee of the St. Joseph County  by computer, and the number of  
U.S.S.R. will resume Its testingJan. 1,  Nuclear Weapons Freeze Commit­ computer errors in the United States  
said Mewes.  tee, which Mewes founded,  grows yearly, thus increasing the  
The chances that the United States  refrained from involvement because  likelihood of an accidental nuclear  
will cease its testing by then "are  of the wording of Mewes's placards,  war.  
practically nil President Reagan has  said Mewes.  The recent Geneva summit talks  
said he isn't going to stop."  "When people see 'Russia' a red  with Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbac­ 
Yet, said Mewes, the Soviet  flag pops up in their heads," he said.  hev were, in the words of Mewes, "a  
proposal presents a first step  The steering committee felt that the  big flop.  

Canadian Transpon Minister Don "Where it came down, it ob­Mazankowski said the plane climbed viously exploded on impact.

Crash 

no higher than l ,000 feet before Everything in the area is charred," 
, continued/rom page 1 

crashing. he said. said Peter Boagofthe Canadian A via­Transpon Canada spokesman Children's clothing, apparently in­lion Safety Board, who was directing Bruce Reid, returning from a tended as gifts, and pieces of gray the Investigation. helicopter tour over the site, said fuselage were strewn across the 
The charter flight operated by Ar­there was no suggestion that the ground at the nonh end of Gander row Air of Miami carried members plane exploded in Oight. Lake. of the 10l st Airborne who were being rotated home after six months service In the multi-national The Notre Dame Department of Communications and Theatre

peacekeeping force In Egypt's Sinai peninsula. 

announces 
Military authorities said It might take a day or two to notify all the 

AUDITIONS 
next-of-kin, and as long as a week to 
for
positively identify remains. CBC television showed debris 

William Shakespeare's 
smoldering In the snow beneath tall evergreens in sparse, hilly woods where the plane went down almost a half-mile from the runway near 


Friday, January 17 Beginning at 4:00pm
Gander Lake. Alrpon manager John Pitman said 

Saturday, January 18 Beginning at 1:00pm 
the aircraft carried 101,000 pounds offuel on takeoff. Roads to the airpon were blocked 

Washington Hall Theatre 
and emergency vehicles with yellow lights flashing stood by as shivering 

Please prepare a two-minute selection from the play. rescue workers searched in vain for 
Reserve an audition slot at 320 O'Shaughnessy or call239-5 134. survivors. Smoke lingered in the air 
Auditions are open to tbe endre community (Students, Faculty, hours after the crash. 
Staff, Townspeople). "There was a flash, just like a sun­

A company of 19 will perform The Tempest February 27,28, March I and March 6,7,8. 
burst," said Judy Parsons, a car rental 

The role of Prospero will be played by guest anist Gregg Henry, Professor of 
agent who witnessed the crash from 
Theatre at Iowa State University. the Gander parking lot. "It lasted for just two seconds and then I heard an explosion. There was a lot of black 
• 
smoke." 
Hedley Gill, another car agent who also was outside, said, "I saw this big mushroom cloud offthe run­way." 

AnH-vtolence VoluntMrt;_ 
Center For Non-VIolence Educa­tion aeeklng full-time staff. Lodging, $150/month, health coverage. Public Interest group developing courses on non­violence and operating National Coalition on Television VIolence national headquarters. In Cham­paign next to University Illinois. Research, writing, office work, monitoring entertainment. One year commitment. 
217-384-1920­




SENIORS! SENIORS! 
Orders for Varden portrait packages will be mailed directly to HOME ADDRESSES 
by Dec. 23 
If you have any questions, please call Varden Studios at (716) 546-2360. 
Friday, December 13, 1985 -page 4 
AP l'bo<o
No doze 
U.S. Secretary ofState George Shultz. in Brnsselsfor a meeting of foreign ministers of tbe North Atlantic Alliance, was found yawning before the beginni"g ofyesterday's meeting. 

Theatrical Experience helpful 

For More Information Contact: 


Barbara Haney-Powell 
Director ofForensics 
239-7753 

The Observer Friday, December 13, 1985-page 5 
l,riest acts as pastoral advisor in bishop synod videotaping 
By LIZ PORTER 
NtwsStaff 
As the synod of bishops con­ducted their talks at the Vatican, Fat­hl:r Joseph Gremillion, director of the Institution for Pastoral and So­ciill Ministry at Notre Dame, assisted Golden Dome Productions in videotaping the assembly. 
Gremillion served as a pastoral ad­
sor to Golden Dome Productions, 
is based at WNDU in South 
major en­deavor in video ministry, which in­cludes video cassettes and teleconferencing. 
During his seven years of work in the Vatican as a 'department head, Gremillion promoted the goals of justice, peace and human rights in Africa, Asia and Latin America. These, and other issues "at the heart of the gospel," were to be discussed at the synod, he said. 
According to Gremillion, the fact­that black African and Asian mini­sters had been taking greater leader­
Don't forget to have a very merry Christmas, and a happy 

with NuVision's Double Up Deal! BUY 1st PAIR GET 2nd FRAME AND TINT FREE! 

1\low you can get the eyewear bargain of the century . . . Buy one pair of quality NuVision eyeglasses br contacts and get a second frame .:~bsolutely free with the purchase of prescription lenses. Choose your ::;econd frame from a large selection and get a free solid, fashion or ::;unglass tint when you buy youf'second pair of lenses! Plus, save on 
•3xtended wear, tinted or daily wear contacts. 
'ft'emendous Values on Contact Lenses! Extended 
$74

Wear 
Dally 
$49

Sohmate E.W. 
Wear Soh 
Contact lens price does not Include eye exam or care kit. ' 
Offer good at participating offices only. Glasses must be ordered at time of. or ptior to, delivery of your first pair. Eye examination available by indepandent icensed optometrist. Offer not valid with prior orders Not valid for state and federally funded programs 


LaSalle Square 234·3123  University Park Mall 277·8682  
McKinley Town &Country 256·1864  Elkhart Mall-Elkhart 295·2496  
Plymouth Center-Plymouth 936·5012  1012 Main St.-Niles 684·8008  

ship roles in the church produced a major influence at the synod, with 280 black bishops in attendance. Gremillion said he condoned the in­troduction of African and Asian culturesand tribes into the ministry. 
He stated that this "evangelization of cultures" made the church "no longer a Western church, but a truly universal church." 
Showing its importance in world issues, this synod attracted 600 ac­credited journalists to cover the proceedings in Rome, with 100 from the United States. 
In regard to the synod's effects on the Notre Dame community, Gremillion reiterated the deep feeling that Notre Dame is part of a world-wide movement which must maintain its leading role towards the goals of justice, peace and human' rights. 
Continuing these movements through the Institution ofSocial and Pastoral Ministry remains Gremil­lion's goal. Established 10 years ago, thiS organization provides a channel 
through which Notre Dame's resources may be used for the con­tinuing education of the ministry and lay people, carrying out the principles of Vatican II. By stretch­ing far beyond the Notre Dame campus, the institute reaches the clergy of 180 dioceses and 19,000 parishes nationwide. 
This ministry consists of seven majpr programs, serving not only the clergy, but the elderly and mem­bers ofcommunity parishes as well. 


·_Hesburgh: Union leads arms fight 
Special to The Ob8erver 
A united effort by scientists and religious leaders has led the fight against nuclear weapons which has 
•• ,surfaced dramatically in the 1980s,
new year, too. 

Father Theodore Hesburgh, Univer­sity president, said yesterday.
From Frank, Dan and Tess 

In remarks prepared for delivery at the 40th anniversary dinner of 3IIK1~P.t~C"..:B2iic'G:P.;~ofl:e~-f.!9!!~re!D!~rGD!~r-f.ID~rfli!I.I.!The Bulletin of Atomic Scientists at 
the University ofChicago, Hesburgh noted that "the nuclear arsenal grew in numbers and megatonnage, with new and more accurate systems of delivery on land, sea and sky -and now in outer space. Somehow in the early 1980s, our moral conscious­ness at last began to stir." 
Hesburgh, whose term on the Na­tional Science Board from 1954 to 1966 coincided with the beginnings of the atomic age, said the United States has, more often than not, led the arms buildup. He pointed out that the United , States first in­troduced the atom bomb, the inter­continental bomber, the jet bomber, the H-bomb, submarine-launched missiles, and multiple re-entry vehicles, with the USSR quickly fol­lowing. 
The Soviets were first with the in­tercontinental ballistic missile and the anti-ballistic missile, with the United States not far behind 
"There were during this period 

BE REALLY HIP 
Become an Assistant News Editor! 
The Observer news 
department is now accepting 
applications for the position 
of assistant news editor. 
Those interested should 
contact Dan or Frank at 
239-5303 or at the Observer 
office. Deadline for 
applications is 5 p.m. Fri . 
. I BV 

o~ruteu ­-owned .\fld Of LadieS l·oshiortS ISM nufacturer_ , prices-··
nda ' rel £1 01reC1 
ca ding Ap~ .At factol'Y Le<1 • fosh'on.s 





~~(QNDQ~ 
With Affordable Business Fashions 
EVERYDAY 
'.\ 
~ PRICES: 
Suits from $39.99 Blazers from $19.99 
,

Shirts & Slacks from $10.99 

many religious appeals to nuclear 
morality and sanity... but they went 
unheeded," Hesburgh observed. 
"About a quarter of our scientists 
and engineers were engaged in the 
macabre arms race. What caught the 
headlines were the war games 
spokesmen." 
In the past few years, according to Hesburgh, a growing number of scientific groups -including the In­ternational Council ofScientific Uni­ons, the Pontifical Academy of Sciences and the 1985 Nobel Peace Prize recipient, the International Physicians for Prevention ofNuclear War-have warned sharply about our new capability to virtually destroy the Earth. 

Congress 
continued/rom page 1 
ruption of federal borrowing 
practices. 
With existing funding legislation set to expire at midnight, negotiators for the two houses conceded that the sticky issues of defense spending and. Interior Department programs were block­ing agreement on a replacement bill. 
Instead, House Appropriations Committee Chairman Jamie Whit­ten, D-Miss., strode into the House chamber In late afternoon with a bill to keep the federal coffers full until Monday at 6 p.m. EST. 

100 Center, Mishawaka 256-1241 
SO's & 60's Music 

OP£N 7 DAYS A WEEK AT 7 P.M. 
t 


IHappy 
t 

: 19th t t 
: Birthd t 1 
~ 

t 1
t 
t

t , ~ 
t 1 
t 1
t tt . . t j
t.

t Meaghan!tt See you on Captiva t t 
tLove, 

t -·t 
Dad, Mother tephanie and ~hristopher
t ' 
t 
--------------~--------~-----------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer Friday, December 13, 1985 -page 6 

And of course, she wouldn't have had to on your state-to-state calls. restrict her feelings to a mere sonnet's Call between 5pm and llpm, Sunday length, either. through Friday, and you11 save 40% on your 
After all, you can always think of one state-to-state calls. more way to tell someone you love them So when you're asked to choose a long when you're on the phone. distance company, choose AThT. Because 
Let us count the ways you can save. with AThT's 60% a.nd 40% discounts, you just call weekends ti115pm Sundays, or can satisfy your heart's desire without from llpm to Bam, Sunday through Friday, exhausting your means. and you11 save 60% off AThT's Day Rate Reach out and touch someone~ 

ATs.T 
The right choice. 
© 1985AT&TCommunicotictns 


'~-~· ...... " .................... ~. 'I' .................... 'I' ........... • ••••• -••• ~........~. ~ -,.·,... "'I. •• '• '-'· 

.t\ccent 
Friday, December 13, 1985 -page 7 
...~------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~~~~--~~­
Purity of Christmas spirit in bag lady's giving 
them comparing menus. The first like a mockery ofthe evergreens wanted; it's part ofChristian dis­place served them turkey and dress· that traditionally symbolize Christ. cipline to find the divine spark inFc1ther Robert Griffin ing. The second place seved them the poorest specimens ofhumanity.
The merchandising on television, chicken and han1. Every place in the sales in the stores, emphasize Christmas began the story ofthe 
Letters to a Lonely God town served pumpkin pie, except the phoniness ofa celebration in unwanted God: unwanted at His the Salvation Army, which served which you need lots ofmoney or birth, and so unwanted at the end ice cream. Early comers got mints credit cards to be a serious par­that they finally killed Him. Yet He 
earl is a bag lady who pushes a making fun ofstreet people, they in a paper cup. They sound obser­ticipant. Christmas is hard on aging Himselfturned no one away. He shopping cart through the complained. It was a mockery of vant enough towrite restaurant bachelors for obvious reasons: you says to us: "Don't treat anyone as streets ofGreenwich Village. She homeless women to use them to reviews for the New Yorker. have too many memories. In your unnecessary." in skirts that seem to be promote the sale ofjewelry. I hope that it doesn't sound in­younger days, when Christmas was 
At Christmas, I p1ake room for theofold bedspreads, and she God knows the street people sensitive, like Titrany's, to say that still a family ga.thering, the holiday ga.rrulous aunt, the idiot cousin, themen's shirts with the tail didn't care ifthey were featured. the street people, as part ofthe didn't seem so coldly materialistic. 
uncle maudlin with drink, the 
...'"l~'uts out. You see her sleeping in Very few of them, I suspect, bot­local color, are highly entertaining. In a year when Christmas is so neighbor who should be hanged as.cloo•""'"'"" on warm nights. During hered to go to 5th Avenue to look Some ofthem are pros in manipulat­tinselly it seems intolerable, I need a nuisance. Sometimes they seemweather, she must have a in Tiffany's windows. There is a ing you with guilt. A regular ap­the street people most. They deeply touched because I'm kind tontc11eawav in a building where heat protectionism that goes on in New proaches you with outstretched remind me ofthe Holy Family in them; and I resolve to live lovingly up; otherwise she couldn't York, where the bag ladies are a hand: "Merry Christmas! Can you Bethlehem on the night there was as though it were Christmas the
ive. tourist attraction like the horse­spare a little change?" Playing Santa no room for them in the inn. There whole year long.
She never talks to anyone except drawn cabs at the Plaza. Claus, you give him two dollars are a thousand legends in our ask for a cigarette, or to yell at At Christmas, every service group instead ofthe usual one. He wants religious tradition ofthe stranger, Pearl the crazy bag lady, I hear, kids, warning them to get in to"'" wants to serve dinner to to shake you down for five or 10: who asks for help, turning out to be 
has a gift list ofher own. Her giftsfrom her. Her old eyes always the bag ladies. Other derelicts are "God bless you, sir. Do you know Christ. Since the time ofAbraham, 
aren't from Titrany's. The stories . to be examining the street: invited too; but sad to say, the where I can get a good Christmas men have entertained angels 
circulate about her giving a can of vat•ChJ:nll for danger, guarding her winos need watching, because they meal, like mother used to make, for representing God. Israel ofold 
fruit cocktail to a neat old man who 
from curious street people have a habit ofgetting drunk on the two bucks?" A hour later, you'll stressed the importance ofshowing tips his hat to her; three oranges want to poke through them, cash handouts they collect from meet him in a different neighbor­kindness to the stranger in the 
wrapped in a newspaper to a looking for trash cans where shoppers. hood going through the same camp; the least ofthem, jesus said, 
Hispanic mother who makes her 
onn.cor1tnn.itv might knock for her. Bag ladies, if they were ever routine. are holy, for they are stand-ins for 
children tell Pearl hello; a pretty ~vervc1ne agrees that she's odd but drinkers, have had their thirst burnt He'll give you a wink that says he Himself. 
wreath, lifted from in front ofthe The ladies who attend out; they don't seem to be winos. counts on you as his co-conspirator One ofthe major lessons of 
bank building, to two sisters who . at my church tell me that she They may have lice, or be anti­• to be amused to find out he's a fake. Christmas, it seems to me, is that 
offered to knit gloves for her; some very street-wise. social; but ifyou can get them to sit Thousands ofthe street people are there is room for everyone: the 
change in a dirty envelope to the B;~g ladies belong to the poor down to a meal, they are peacable profoundly tragic; but a good num­poor, the lame, the sick, the blind; 
pastor who lets her use the rectorythe Lord said we would have enough. It's a status symbol, when ber ofthem make a good living for ofsuch is the Kingdom of 
bathroom. ys with us. Two years ago, you're running a program that from playing the tragic role. Heaven. After they have all come in, had some sculptured serves turkey "with all the fixin's" Christmas, as you grow older, there is still room in my life for all She doesn't say a word, or stop to of street people, including to the homeless at Christmas, to hurts more every year. The plastic the others I pay no attention to: the accept thanks. The Lord Himself ladies, in their windows. At the have a group ofbag ladies on your holly and styrofoam candy canes dullards, the bores, the fools, the isn't a more silent giver. Hearing ofone of the bag ladies, Tif-guest list. which have been decora.ting the rogues, the ugly, the creeps, the about her, I think: if Tiffany's has a s had on display a $25,000 Some of the street people eat two stores since Halloween are so of­nerds, the cruel, the bums. bag lady and a diamond bracelet in .llilllllu•uu bracelet. The do-gooders or three Christmas dinners in the fensive that they leave you Christmas tells me that no one their window, the bracelet is out­outraged: the store was same afternoon, and you can hear depressed. The artificial trees seem should be allowed to feel un-classed by a Pearl ofgreat price. 
13lind date wins Gipp another tr.y with Nicki Summers 


Tbis is tbe 12tb episode in Tbe Observer's serial publication oftbe Notre Damefootball story, "Tbe Gtpper's Gbost." In last week's episode, Nicki Summers surprised an "overwhelmed" Dutch Reagan (the ghost ofGeorge Gipp) witb herpassing 
prowess, and Father Rock (tbe ghost of Knute Rockne)forecast/be brlgbtfuture of tb1? new bunch ofIrish starters. 
The quest 

I 
t was Friday night. Hart Collins had arranged a blind date for Dutch Reagan with his girlfriend's roommate. 1 dun l know about thts, Hart. I ve nevt:r been on a blind date before." 
"What's the matter, Dutch, you're not 
scared, are you? You didn't seem to be 
afi:aid ofPurdue's tackles last week." 
"Tackles are one thing. Brunettes are 
something else." 
"Trust me. You'lllike her. She's Lauren's 
roommate so she can't be all bad." Collins 
h~1d met Lauren Kennedy at last year's 
fr•:shman mixer. It had been love at first 
si~t. She was a lovely, tanned blonde from 
Connecticut. Many considered her the 
most attractive girl on campus. 
Collins had arranged to meet the girls at 
the entrance to the Engineering 
Allditorium, which did double-duty as a 
lecture hall in the daytime and a movie 
theater at night. This week, the Student. 
Union Movie Commission was staging a 
George Lucas revival, showing some ofhis 
old classics. Tonight's feature was "The 
Empire Strikes Back". 
Ryan O'Connor was joining them. He 
didn't have a date, but that wasn't unusual. 
H•: was forever faithful to his H.T.H., or 
"home-town honey," in Erie, a dark-eyed 
Italian girl named linda. 
Collins had been suppressing a smile all 
afi:ernoon. Reagan was sure of it, but 
couldn't guess the reason. He knew the 
moment Kennedy arrived-with her 
roommate. 
"Nicki," Lauren said, "I'd like you to meet Dutch Reaga.n. Dutch, this is Nicki Sum­
mers." 
Summers said, "This is a wonderful surprise. Dutch and I are practically old friends. We've met twice before." 
Collins burst out laughing. "And Nicki won both rounds!" 
The group entered the auditorium and chose seats in the middle rows. For the next two hours, they were transported to anot­her galaxy as Luke Skywalker, Han Solo and the other Star Wars heroes battled the forces ofthe evil Empire. 
Reagan seemed to enjoy the film most. He told Summers he had never seen it before, which she thought was odd. Im­agine someone who had never seen a Star Warsfilm! · 
After the movie, the party offive squeezed into Summers' Camaro and drove to Denny's on U.S. 33, about 10 minutes north ofcampus. Many Notre Dame stu­dents chose to supplement their dining hall menu with an occasional meal off campus ... just to be safe about good nutrition, vitamin requirements, and so forth. 
Collins loved the movie. Ever thoughtful, he tried to put it in a broader perspective. "You !mow, my favorite character in the Star Wars series has always been Han Solo, the pilot of the Millennium Falcon. No matter what happens, he always fights his way through. No matter what the odds .... 
" 
"Great or small?" 

"Cut it out, Dutch, I'm trying to be serious. No matter what the odds, he always keeps trying, facing every challenge. Remember the scene when Solo and his friends are being chased by enemy spaces­hips and he decides to fiy his ship, the Milennium Falcon, directly into an asteroid belt to avoid the lasefblasts? The rest of them thought he was crazy. Remember hew C3PO, the gold robot, told him the odds of successfully naviga.ting a spaceship through an asteroid field were something like 3, 720 toone?" 
His friends nodded. 
Collins said, "What did he say?" 
They knew. 

They all said together, "Never tell me the odds!" 
Collins paused. 
"I know it's only a moW.e, but I wish we could instill a little ofSolo's attitude into 
the team." 
Summers agreed. "You're right. I think the old Notre Dame teams had that kind of spirit, if you want to call it that. There always seemed to be a common thread through the great game stories. No matter how much time was left, the greatest Notre Dame teams played their hearts out until the final gun sounded." 
"Especially when joe Montana was quarterback!" Collins said. "Remember the Cotton Bowl ga.me when Notre Dame trailed 34 to 12 with seven minutes and 37 

seconds to play, and still won 35 to 34?" 
For the next halfhour, the group debated what had led to the downfall of the Notre Dam1e football program. There was general agreement that many factors had con­tributed to the decline: academic pressures, higher admission standards for student­athletes, and ofcourse, the routine scapegoat, co-education. They all dismissed the "Samson and Delilah" theory advanced by some ofthe more cynical alumni who remained convinced that the downfall was inevitable as soon as the school became co-ed in the fall of 1972. The argument generally stated the players would be unable to concentrate on football with all those pretty girls on campus to distract them. Male students from those early days ofco-education generally disputed that theory, and often supported their claim by producing visual evidence from their old Freshman Photo Directory, or "dog book" as it was more commonly known. 
Finally, Collins said, "sometime before we graduate, I want to win the national championship for Notre Dame. I don't really have any interest in pursuing profes­sional football, ·but I sure would enjoy winning the the national title for Notre Dame. I think that's a quest worth pursu­ing." 
There was silence for a few moments 
while the others pondered his proposal. 
Reagan broke the silence. "like you said 
Hart. Never tell me the odds. It's agreed. 
We win the national championship." 
Summers ga.ve him an affectionate elbow. 
"Here, have another French fry, dreamer." 
Around midnight, back on campus, Reagan walked Summers back to Breen­Phillips. At the door, he said, "I really enjoyed this evening, Nicki." 
"Me, too." 
"Well, I guess I should be going now." He moved closer. 
"I guess so. I'd invite you in, but it's almost pumpkin time. You know how strict our hall rector, Sister Sarah, is about parietal violations." 
"Yeah. Well, Nicki ... " He moved closer. 
Summers tilted her head slightly back. 
Extending his arm, Reagan shook her 
hand vigorously. "Well, goodnight, Nicki. Thanks aga.in. Be seeing you." Then he rushed away. 
Summers folded her arms and sighed. She thought to herself, typical Notre Dame male! 
But he is cute. For a football player. 
To be continued ..• 
From "The: Glppcr's Ghost," copyriplt 1985 by Robc:n Quackenbusll. Published by O'Connor Publlshllll Co. lleprlntcd by 
pennialion. 
,1 
., 
,1 
1 

,. 
,.
,. 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
~ 
r 
-

~i~~~_()__i_ll___t_________________Fr-id~ay,_o_ece_m_be-rl-3,_19-85~p~ag._e8 
Lack of faith apparent from parietals decision 
Two hours may not seem like a long time. 
This Friday and Saturday nights, parietals will end at midnight, two hours 
before their usual time. The Notre Dame administration has decided to cut short 
hall visitation hours because it wants students to utilize their weekend study 
days before final exams. 

This is not a major decision by the University and it will not have a great effect 
on student life. It is, however, yet another example ofhow administrators regard 
students as something other than mature adults capable of making their own 
decisions. 

Shortening parietals this weekend will not make anyone study longer or har­
der for exams. What it will do is show students that administrators lack faith in 
them. Administrators are making decisions students should be allowed to make 
for themselves. 

Saint Mary's parietals policy during exam week used to bt: even worse than 
Notre Dame's is now. Before a parietals revision last year, there was no visitation 
at all during exam week. This year, parietals will maintain their usual hours 
during the week. 

It is time the Notre Dame administration stopped treatingstudents as childre'n 
and began treating them as mature, responsible citizens ofthis community. 
-The Observer 
Do not let love dwindle during your busy times 
"I love you." 

Three words mean so much and are easy to say. Yet, we still find difficulty in saying them. As the holidays approach and we look forward to being with family and close friends, these words must not be forgotten. 
Mary Berger makes you think 
It may be trite, but it is true: Love does make the world go 'round. There may be war, hunger, loss ofhuman rights and multitudes of other pains In the world which must be dealt with, but when It comes down to the line, the most important things in our lives are those 

people near and dear to our hearts. 
Friends and family do so much for us. They 
aid in our growth, always there to catch us if 
we fall or pat us on the backs. They share our 
tears and joys of laughter. They hope to shel­
ter us from harm, but let us learn fom our 
mistakes. 

One may think success in life depends on 
the dean's list, a high-paying job or other 
material things gained through hard work. 
Without the love and support of someone, 
though, what do those rewards mean? Very 
little. 

We must nurture the love we share with 
those close to us at all times. We must show 
our love and give it freely to those we care 
about. We must never let any priority top our 
need to love and be loved. 
Signs of affection need not be big or gran­
diose. A smile shows you care, and "How are 
you doing?" does the same. These may be 
commonplace, but do not tell me you don't 
feel some warmth and desire to smile yourself 
when encountering a smiling face. 
Short notes, cards and letters are always great because the receiver can return to them over and over whenever he or she needs to be reminded that they are loved. 
Telling someone you love him is also won­derful. At times, we find it difficult to voice that feeling. Find the right time, though, and let that person know how you feel. 
What I am trying to say is, don't get so caught up in finals now and whatever happens in the future that you let the blossoms oflove surrounding you wither and die. 
Let your friends here know what what they mean to you and share with your family all of the love you feel for them. Ifyou do not take the time to show your love now, after you finish what is keeping you so preoccupied at the moment, you'll find it is too late. 
Mary Berger is enrolled in the Freshman Year ofStudies at Notre Dame. 
~ 

College is a great step for parents and children 
I never really thought it would happen when I was growing up; some things alway!> seem unattainable, just a little too crazy to be true. This certainly was one of those things. Sometime near third grade we heard about this college thing. Some children had even seen older brothers and sisters go to this mys­terimls place. I never thought I would make it. Think about it, you get to go live by yourself with 10,000 other kids in a place where no one can tell you what to do. When you are a child, that seems a little bit hard to believe. Come to think of it, it is hard for parents to believe too. 
Daniel De Carlo guest column 
As the youngest of three boys I saw what happenned to my parents and my brothers as one by ohe the children began to depart and hc~ad for the world of opportunity. College is one of those experiences in life that has the word "step" written all over it. College is a big step for the child and I think an even bigger step for the parents. 
College is one of those special times in life that has the power to dictate your fate. For 
• parents, sending a child to school is on par with bringing a child into the world. Most mothers and fathers will tell you the happiest times of their lives were when their children were born. The first born is always the biggest thrill, but the children that follow are not far behind. There is something about a birth that can cheer up just about anybody. Mom and Dad walk around with the bundle In their arms smiling from ear to ear as If to say, "Hey you, look what we made." The years that fullow are not always as smooth. It does not take long for most parents to discover that the kids take a little bit of work and an exhausting amount of love. So much love that an outsider might not be able to tell that what is going on in a certain house is indeed love. No matter what it sounds like, it is love. It just so happens that love takes on different faces. 
I can't say for sure, but I have been told that raising a child takes a lot of work. So much work that most parents look forward to the 
day when they can kick off their shoes, sit at 
home in peace and wait for that phone call 
from the university ofwherever. They "claim" 
that will be their day of peace. I have come to 
the conclusion that that is not always the case. 
It has been my experience that when all the 
children leave, parents become just a little bit 
deranged. 

For 18 years the parents have been a part 
each and every day of their child's life. 
the time comes they find it just a little hard . give that""'"iJp without a fight. When the 
child goes, the thought of being left 
does nor yet enter their minds; there are 
several more left to guide. But as each 
goes, a sense offright enters their hearts, 
finally it is time to send "the baby" to 
wolves. No one is left; there is no one left 
guide. It is at this point that many 
become irrational in their behavior. 
have spent the better part oftheir lives 
for orher human beings, and now they are 
with the sight ofan empty house for the 
part ofthe year. 

After all the children have left, parents to relate past family events in a warped hion. Stories that never really happened told to friends about their children. remember how their children were so always willing to lend a helping hand. say things to people like, "Our children cried when they were babies." Parents thrown into stages of blind reminiscence. of a sudden they have forgotten how their kids can be. When mom and dad through department stores, they are peaking into strollers saying absurd like, "Honey, should we have another 
College is indeed a big step for parents children alike. Pretty soon we will be home for a couple of weeks to spend much needed times with our families. look forward to our vacations because treasure the time without the pressure school. Our parents look forward to this ti because it allows them to spend time with projects into which they put so much and love. These three weeks are a chance them to pat themselves on the back for a well done. 
Daniel DeCarlo ts a sophomore in the lege ofArts and Letters at Notre Dame. 
~TAMTHECMILDREN 
GIVEUNTILIT "'URTS. 
Garry Trudeau 
THEN I ffl.-T A RiJSH=--c:;_ .. HUNGeR, RAGe,
aJ&U, AT FIRST I 

CF (i/OfJING$5, FOLUJ/41£0 5EXfJAL LON6/N6, tf!HATABafT0/0N'T FlZL ANYTHING. 
BY Ff£LING5 OF /JIS­VERTIGO, 8003fXJM, AFTER THe
I J/J5TIAI&NT NUMB. 

ORIENTATION, ()!£,45/NE:SS, AN/J fiNALLY, A Ne/A/5 51/NK.I TINGliNG SCNSA-IN?
~OF<TN&s/CF EJR£ATH.. TION. ~ 
~A 
Quote of the day "Beware you be not swallowed up in books! An ounce of love is worth a pound of knowledge." 
john Wesley (1703-1791) 

Searching for presents is half the fun 
CHRIS DALLAVO 
features writer 
D 
on't look now, but the 
Christmas shopping season has 
once again arrived. This brief 
period after the snowball civil war 
and before students leave the land ofparietals and alcohol policies is a pressure-packed time for everyone. So, as a service to students busy with finals, here are some time­saving Christmas gift ideas for the whole family. 
For those who can't stand losing sight ofthe Golden Dome, the Notre Dame Bookstore comes to the rescue. This is a unique store where one can buy clothes, gifts and everyday items-each ofwhich has "Notre Dame" written all over it. The bookstore is the perfect stop for younger brothers and sisters who love anything associated with Notre Dame, especially sweatshirts. On-campus shopping not only saves time but usually makes everyone happy. 
For those who wish to ventul"e away from campus, there are all ldnds ofwonderful new toys just begging to be bought. 
To be like everyone else, one can get the toddler in the family a Cabbage Patch doll, which comes complete with its own birth certif­icate. A more original gift is a n.-•w.-rl'!•f\•~'\":ltl doll, an updated version ofa popular candy. That's right, direct from the local vending machine come the Gummi Bears -Gruffi Gummi, Zummi Gummi, Cubbi Gummi and Tummi Gummi. For slightly older people there is the 
latest from Mad Dog Productions · 
Earl the Dead Coi.t, who comes com­
plete with his own death certificate. Krystle Carrington herself. For those sisters who have out­Now what about big brother? He 
grown teddy bears and dolls or who too can smell like a Carringto"n with 
already have the complete Notre the Essence of a Man cologne. 
Dame sweatsuit collection, don't Somewhat more elegant gifts are 
panic. The perfect gift might be available, like a silver-plated pen­
Calvin Klein designer sleepwear, guin cocktail shaker for a mere S400, a definite contrast to Earl the Dead Cat. Still stuck for a nice gift? Here's one that will look great in big brother's apartment -a bean bag chair shaped to look like him, sol­ving any lack ofseating he might have. 
something no fashion-conscious Kids ofall ages, especially those prep student should be without. Or, who enjoy the popular holiday there's always the latest spin-off television show, "The Grinch That from Dynasty, Forever Krystal eau Stole Christmas," will always be de toilette spray. For only 20 bucks grateful for an electro-Whomordial an ounce, women can smell just like schnook or maybe a Hoober­
magnetical frunck, so keep those in mind. 
What to get Mom has always been a difficulty, but it's a pr_oblem no more. Every mother needs the new Girmi espresso/cappuccino maker, which sells for a mere $300. It even fits right underneath the cupboud, so she can get rid ofthat old, bulky espresso/cappuccino maker which has caused such a space problem for so many years. 
As if that's not enough, another gift-giving possibility is a year's membership in the Coffee ofthe Month club. Just think, exotic cof­fee beans from all over the world delivered right to the family's door 
every month; Mom will be over­
whelmed. 
IfMom doesn't like coffee but is inclinced more toward fashion, maybe she would enjoy decorator potato chips. Imagine, the tradi­tional potato chip in four beautiful colors, perfect for all occasions. 
Now what is there to get for Dad? Never fear, plenty ofgifts remain. From Presto comes the electric shoe polisher, which polishes and shines in one easy step. But he probably already has one ofthose. Is he a car buff? For only S21,000 an authentic London taxi can be his. If Dad's not interested in cars, there's always the old stand-by gifts of ties or underwear -what he probably receives every year anyway. 

Also, one might want to keep in mind the new video game/breath analyzer for those out-of-hand parties. For S3,000 this toy will tell a partier when he's had too much to drink and then laugh in his face. 


What about the family pets? Made especially for the lovable kitten or cat, personalized kitty dishes com­plete with personalized placemats are popular this year. And for Spot, Niemann-Marcus stores offer a S23,000 fur coat to keep him warm 
~ 
..,

on those cold winter walks. Sadly leaving South Bend for the 
1 holidays, students who feel they 
.,1 

will miss the beautiful weather here .,may want to consider the Kohler Masterbath Spa. For a mere 
~ 

518,000, the spa creates wind and ,rain on a moment's notice. This 
, 

programmable-environment device 
~ 

also comes with sun, steam and 
sauna for the non-Domer. 
Well, there it is -a list ofunique 
holiday gifts for everyone in the ~ 
family. Enjoy them and have a , 
Merry Christmas! 
j 
j 

r------------------------------------------------------------------­
Happenings-page 2 Friday, December 13, 1985 
Saint's charity proof enough of Santa 
J. CHRISTOPHER MURPHY 
feotuNJs writer 
" I knew in a moment it must be 
St. Nick." This line from the 
famous poem '"Twas the Night 
&fore Christmas" invokes images 
ofcelebration around the world as 
children laugh and play. St. Nicolas 
has arrived and everyone is happy. 
But who is this St. Nicolas? Why is 
he better known as Santa Claus? Is 
he really a saint -even a real person 
for that matter-or is he simply a 
toy-toting gentle old man? 
St. Nicolas was born ofand raised by noble Christian parents, and he lived their example all his life. He entered the monastery at a very young age and thus is closely as­sociated with children; he is known as the patron saint ofchildren and students. At a relatively young age, Nicolas became bishop ofMyra in Asia Minor in the early part ofthe 4th century. Stories ofhis kindness spread throughout Europe: during the 1300s, with his popularity be­coming greater after his death. 
While still a young priest in the monastery, Nicolas heard ofthe misery of three daughters ofa local and once very wealthy man. The girls were not accustomed to work and thus were helpless in their new-found poverty. 
As the girls had no dowry with wbich to catch a husband, Nicolas secretly threw a bag ofgold, equiv­alent to the sum ofa sizable dowry, through the window of the daughters' room on each of three 



FAMOUS LAST WORDS FROM FRIENDS TO FRIENDS. 
"Are you OK to drive?" "Whatll afew beers?" 
·oo you have too much to drink?" "I'm perfectly fine." 
"Are you in any shape to drive?" "I've ll.l!VeT'feU better:" 
"I think you've had afew too many." "You kiddin, I can drive with my eyes closed." 
"You've had too much to drink,

r 
let me drive."

r 
r 
r 
~ 
r 
r 
r 
r 
' 

consecutive nights. On the third especially to children. night, the father discovered Nicolas' identity. He was hardly surprised, The custom ofhanging stockings because Nicolas had always been over the fireplace can be traced to known as a kind and giving person. the story of the three daughters. On 
one ofthe three nights, the bag of 
On another occasion Nicolas is gold landed in a stocking being said to have restored life to three hung out to.dry. That's why young boys who had been brutally murdered by a cruel innkeeper. If such legends are true, it is easy to see how Nicolas gained the title of Saint. 
'' .. a young 
Dec. 6, the feast day ofSt. Nicolas, 

man is appoint­
is still celebrated in Europe, al­though it is downplayed in the 

ed to represent
United States in favor ofChristmas. 

In the Netherlands, a young man is St. Nicolas for 
appointed to represent St. Nicolas for the day. As he rides through the 

the day. As he 
streets on his white horse, parents tell him oftheir children's behavior, 

rides through
and the children are either 

rewarded with gifts or reprimanded the streets on 
and given a bundle ofsticks. In Germany school children elect a 

his white horse, 
young boy to oversee mock fes­tivities from Dec. 6 to Holy In­

parents tell 
nocents Day on Dec. 28. These 

customs were so loved by the him of their 
children ofEurope that they w~re_ settlers. English-speaking children children's be­in the new world, trying to pronounce the Dutchstnterclaas, 
havior, and jthe
excitedly exclaimed "santy claus" 

or "santa claus" and joined in the children are ei­
festivities. 

ther rewarded 
Today "santa claus" is most com­

with gifts or re­
monly used. Popular American traditions date back to St. Nicolas. 

primanded and 
As we give gifts to each other at Christmas, we can look back at 

given a bundle 
Nicolas' giving to the needy as he showed his kindness toward all, of sticks.'' 
children today hang stockings on the mantle in hopes offinding presents in them when they awake. Nicolas himseifwore a bright red miter on his head and a long red robe as he preached. Today these garments have been changed into the red cap and a furry red suit worn by Santa Clauses the world around. 
Thus Santa Claus is not just some mythical figure. He was a real, kind and saintly man who brought joy to the hearts ofall good little boys and girls. 

Lunches star1in~ at.___ •__'2.95
Open 7 Days a Week 

Dinners starting at••••••_.'4.25
2 Locations: 

lar open 7 days a week
South Bend, 130 Dixie Hwy. (Roseland) Mon.-Thurs.: H:38 .....10 p.M.Next to Randall's lnn·272-1371 
Frl•..s.t.: 11:30 U1.·11 II& 





Happenings-page 3 
'Rocky' perpetuates anti-Russian hysteria 
BOB MUSSELMAN 
features writer 

F 
argive me, Father, for I have never seen a "Rocky" movie. Oh, sure, I saw parts of the original film on nr, but all I remember is that some stupid and greasy -albeit very big-Italian gets a 

chance to fight "The Champ." He proceeds to pound on some meat, date a very ugly 
ovie review~ 
ocky IV
* 
(out of four) 

woman named Adrian and fight "The Champ" to a draw. 
That makes me the perfect person to review "Rocky lV," Sylvester Stallone's latest sequel. I'm objective. I haven't seen "Rambo," even. 
So I asked my roommate to tell me the "Rocky" story from start to finish. It's a good thing he did. "Rocky IV" has a hard time standing on its own. 
J:n "IV," Rocky Balboa (Stallone) is living luxuriously in semi-retirement with his wife Adrian (Talia Shire), who is now magically beautiful, his son Rocky Jr. (Rocky Krakoff) and his brother-in-law Paulie (Burt Young). Hi!i best friend is Apollo Creed (Carl W eat· hers), who he once destroyed in the ring. 
ll.ike the "commie hotbed" that it is, the So·viet Union spoils Rocky's happiness. The Russians announce that they are entering the world ofprofessional boxing and come to the United States with Ivan Drago (Dolph Lundgren), world heavyweight amateur champion. He's 6'6", weighs 240 pounds and has been trained using the most modern fit11ess equipment available. Though his body's been tuned like a fine piano, it reacts with the brute force ofa Soviet tank. 
Theater 

• The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre presents Noel Coward's comedy "Hay Fever" tonight and tomorrow night in O'Laughlin Auqitorium. Directed by Roberta Rude, a new member of the Saint Mary's faculty, the play recounts a weekend at the English country estate of the Bliss family. Each ofthe four family members has invited a guest for the weekend without informing the others of the additional occupants. The collection ofguests includes an innocent young boxer, a Gothic novelist, an actress, a flapper and a diplomat. The author demonstrates his mastery of English wit as he guides the play from comedy to farce. Tickets for the 8:10p.m. shows are S5 and 
S6. 
Art 
~I 

•The exhibit"Africa and the Americas: A Curator's Choice," con­tinues this weekend in The Snite's O'Shaughnessy West Gallery. Examples of the museum's finest paintings and sculptures with ceremonial and ritual functions will be on display. A pictograp­hic painting ofthe Battle ofthe Uttle Big Horn by a Crow Indian named White Swan, a Dagon wooden figure from the year 1620 and a 17th century pre­Colombian bone bloodletter from Xoc· 
hicalco, Mexico, are among the featured works. The show is open to the public. Museum hours are 10 am. to 4 p.m. Tuesday through Friday, I to 4 p.m. Saturday and Sunday and Thursday evenings from 4 to 8 p.m. 
People in the United States start saying: "Hey, wouldn't it be great ifour American­stud champion would beat up this guy and prove we are superior to those pagan Mar­xists?" But Rocky, with considerable pressure from Adrian, isn't about to get his face bloodied again. 
Cre,ed isn't as intelligent. Deciding he's the one to defend America, he agrees to fight the Russian. After considerable hype, the two meet in the glittering Ziegfeld room ofthe MGM Grand Hotel in Las Vegas. 
As the preveiws show, Creed is defeated· badly. And Rocky feels that he must defend the honor ofhis defeated friend. 
But the Russians, lead by Drago's wife Ludmilla (Brigitte Nielsen), demand that the fight be held in the Soviet Union · on Christmas. 
The rest is predictable. Rocky trains in an isolated spot in Siberia which could double for South Bend, except that it has mountains And the Soviets are evil, godless peasants who hang pictures ofLenin on everything. Eventually, he fights. 
I use the word "fight" ioosely. These guys don't fight. They pummel each other with force that, if realistic, no one could survive. This isn't boxing; this is science fiction. 
The story is adequate, though one really needs to know the "Rocky" story to under­stand it. Fortunately for United Ani.sts, everyone has either seen the movie or has a friend, neighbor or roommate who can tell them about it. 
The movie epitomizes the Rocky-Rambo­Reagan brand ofpatriotism which seems to be popular now. In the end, however, the message of the movie is surprisingly good­natured. 
For those who think Stallone's a cool dude or just hate Russians, "Rocky IV'' will prove enjoyable. But for people who are tired of watching Stailone movies and realize that Russians are humans, too, it might be better to save S4 and read a book. 
The Scoop 
•
An exhibition ofrecent work by Moira Marti Geoffrion continues at The Snite Museum. Geoffrion, who currently teaches sculpture, is the acting assistant chairperson of the Notre Dame depart­ment ofart. She creates organic forms derived from tree branch structures which combine sculpture, drawing and collage elements. Her works are par­ticularly influenced by a 1982 trip to India. Featuring a room installation and 1 7 polycrome bronze sculptures and drawings, the exhibition is free to the public. 

•The 
exhibit"Aerial Images," by Kalamazoo photographer Gary Cialdella, can be viewed in The Woman's Art League Gallery ofthe South Bend Art Center. The Michigan landscape and shoreline are featured in these photographs. 


!Music 
IR 
•The piano duo ofLeifheit and Mihalso will perform tomorrow at 8:15 
p.m. in Northside Recital Hall at Indiana University at South Bend Karl Leiheit and Andrew Mihalso teach music at Trinity University in San Antonio, Texas. Featured in the performance will be Mozart's "Fantasia 1 in F Minor," Schubert's "Fantasia in F Minor," "Slavonic Dances" by Dvorak and "Sonata in B flat Major," by Fibich. Admission to the concert is S2 and tickets are available at the door. 
'Hay Fever' 
Friday, December 13, 1985 
ment of music, The Notre Dame Glee Club Christmas Concertwill be held in the Bendix Theatre ofthe Century Center tomorrow night at 8 p.m. Tickets are available through the Century Center box office. 
1Assortedt,1 
•The Northern Indiana Historical Society celebrates an old-fashioned Christmas with decorations in the style of the Civil War Era and the Victorian Period. Featured exhibits include a 19th century toy store window, ornaments and toys from the Fredrickson Collection. The exhibits and decorations will remain in the museum until january. 
!Mass 
i.J 

The celebrants for Mass at Sacred Heart 
Church this weekend will be: 
Father Robert Griffin at 5 p.m. 
(Saturday night vigil). 
Father Thomas Blantz at 9 am. 
Father DanielJenky at 10:30 am. 
Father Robert Kennedy at 12:15 p.m. 
The schedule for confessions in Sacred 
Heart Church is: 
Monday through Saturday at 11:15 am. 
Monday through Friday at 5 p.m. 
Monday through Thursday at 7 p.m. 
Saturday only 4 to 5 p.m. in the Crypt. 
Vespers are held Sundays at 7:15 p.m. in the Lady Chapel. The rosary is said daily at 6:45p.m. at the grotto. 
-
-
-, 
i 
l t 

-

-Happenings-page 4 
Mexican-style restaurant makes thick margaritas 

DAVE DVORAK 
/Mtures siQ/fwriter 

Y 
es, Virginia, there is a classy place to eat and drink In South Bend. It's called Senor Kelly's, a stylish combination lounge, res­taurant and disco in the heart of the city's business district. 
IfSouth Bend has yuppies, this is where you'll find them. Across the street from the Marriott Hotel, Senor Kelly's offers a bit of 
11,~ The Bar Beat ~ /: -·.~ Senor Kelly's ~:~Ll!"' {***(out ottour) 
Mexican flavor in a smart, rather degant 
atmosphere that seems to cater directly to 
-
the young urban business professional. 
The front portion of the establishment is the lounge, a spacious and attractive area distinquished by its brass-and-wood decor. Seating is available at the bar, at tables or at a long, high counter in the center ofthe room. 
The popular drink at Senor Kelly's is the Margarita, served by the glass, the mug or the liter. One will find the Margaritas here thicker and richer than the comparable drink for which the rival Chi Chi's Mexican res­taurant is famous. 
A good selection ofbottled Imports and draft beer is also available. 
In addition to the standard nachos-and-dip routine found at most Mexican-style bars, Senor Kelly's features a complimentary hot hors d'oeuvres table from 4 to 7 p.m. every day. Here one'll find a great variety ofbite-sized delights, including Mexican bean treats 
and the not-so-Mexican cocktail franks and 
chicken wings. 

The main rear portion ofSenor Kelly's is the cafe, a simple but elegant restaurant that serves a great variety ofMexican and American food. The menu features everyth­ing from chicken enchiladas to taco salad to New York strip steak. The quality of the food as well as the price range: clearly indicate that this place is no Taco Bell. 
Senor Kelly's also has an adjoining side room which houses the discoteque. Open Wednesday through Saturday nights, this long, narrow room is stylishly furnished and features a rather modem dance floor, com­plete with a laser lighting package and live DJ. It's not Rush Street, but the singles scene here does hop on weekend nights. 
The crowds at Senor Kelly's are just what one might expect: business people and assorted singles in the 23-to 35-year-old age group. The clientele is well-dressed and well-mannered. 
For those who feel like dressing up a bit and enjoying a nice drink or Mexican dinner, Senor Kelly's is a good idea. One should bring his own group offriends, though, -the slightly older local crowd does not seem to be overly anxious to socialize with Domers. It might cost a bit more than the average dive, but customers are paying for atmo­sphere as well as drinks. 
Located at 119 N. Michigan, Senor Kelly's is open from 10 a.m to 10 p.m. on Sunday, 10 
a.m. to 11 p.m. Monday through Thursday, and 10 a.m. to midnight on Friday and Satur­day. 
Friday, December 13, 1985 
Above: two students relax in the elegant ambience ofthe lounge at Senor Kelly's; Below left: a man eats in the restaurant ofSenor Kelly's; located at 119 N. Michigan, Senor Kelly's rests in the mid­dle ofSouth Bend's business district-its location and versatility (a combination lounge, restaurant and disco) make it an extremely popular attraction/or many, in particular the "yuppies" ofthe area. 

•II-fl *
DELIVERY ltt NAUGLES® HOURS: 272-5455 !
6:00-Midnight 

: NAUGLES TO YOUR DORM!! : 
iC MEXICAN KITCHEN AMERICAN KITCHEN lt
• * 
~ Taco Reg. Macho C~S~~!-;;R~l·r!;~:c::~ Jt 
9 69f Burrito• l.0 1. Naugleburger t.99 * ~ ••n 1.79 2.49 2 PaftK!!". With the works ,.. 
iC ~::.tbo ~:~: g: double cheese lt 
• 
i' Chee•e 1.89 2.59 Delu•e Hamburger 1.39 JtiC Make any bumto wet for 50 cents!! 2 Patties with lettuce, ' JtiC P.S. Don't order macho unless you're ready for a tomato, mavo dressmg ,.. ..Jr. pound of goodies' Hamburger 1.19 ,.. iC Nacho• It Chee•e 1.19 ~~~:~ ~::ickle, ketchup, • il :~~cS:~~ no extra charge to spice !hem add cheese 20 ,.. 
Tile ~or/Siepboa Blaba
' • * il ~.:,':;' :;,~h:·~ps. cheese. peppers. mtl~·';!,., DESSERTS lf­~ sauce, spky green sauce! Hot Fudge • Hot Caramel • Strawberry • Orarigr * 
• Bluebmy • Chocolate • Cherry • Vantlla • Root Beer Jt 
ir ~~:·:;!~ G:.:!run 3.29 :::~::. !::: * ~ Reg Platter Fudge Brownie .69 * il Mexican Salad 1.29 2.89 Pa•trv .69 * 'iC Tootada Combo 1.59 2.09 fudge Brownie Sundae 1.69 1t 'iC Chile Ole' .99 2.39 lt -iC Taco Sandwich 1.49 2.59 DRINK UP! ..._'iC Chicken Sandwich 1.74 2 84 ~ Platter Assortment of sauces & side ord~rs. Cold Beverage• ..i' Wanr It a special way_ just order lt! 12 oz.· .64 20 oz.· .79 32 oz.· .94 *
THE 
* 

NEXTSEMESTER  ir; ~ ir; ilir;  E::!·.·~:::a(~~~= :';t!eese Chicken DINNERS  2.00 2.50  Pepsi, Diet Pepsi, Root lleeo-. Mt Dew Dr. p~T!'.et':,·&~:1 J~ade Hot Beverageo ..47 Coffee. Hot Chocolate. Hot Tea  _* lt*lt  
January 24-25  "MASS APPEAL" (A play given by Actors for Africa)  il --tl --tr  :~ ~::~!a::c~ I chocken. I beef #3 Meat Burrito 14 ChuM Burrito A Taco  SIDE ORDERS French Frlee Refrled Deana  .99 .99  lt Jt*  
- January 24  THE  "MUSIC KING"  'iC iC --lr:  Complete with Mexican salad, reiTied be.ns, chiH & cheese. guacamole, sour cream & a pile of chips. A dinner with~ leh over for tomonow's LUNCH1  with chill oauce ~:~::;~~·Fresh, Fresh. Fresh Sour Cre•m  -99 ::: .25  1t Jf-­,..  
ill:•«  4.79 Plus tax on prices -$5.00 mlnlr.lum order  Extra chene for anything  .50  Jt*lt  
The AROUND THE CORNER CLUB  is for all students regardless of age.  ------------clip and save ·----------•  ·1  

"ielYP.~O~i~n~t~------------------------------------------F_r_id_a~y,~D~e_c_em~be~r_I~3~,~~9~8~S--•p-ag~e~9 
Professor Clancy on 'designer genes' 

Mary Clancy, who teaches the under­graduate course in genetics, Joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1982. 
Mary became interested in molecular genetics while an undergraduate at Cornell University, and went on to graduate study at Princeton University. While there, she ac­quired a Ph.D., a husband (Bob Tax)and two cats. The Clancy-Tax family now lives near downtown South Bend, in a large Victorian bouse which they hope to fix up sometime before they retire. 
Let her tell you why her research, the ul­timate in "designer genes," bas conspired to delay the renovations. 
John Kozak something different 
I teach a big class, so I often have student 
visitors in the afternoon. IfI'm having a lucky 
day (not so often at this point in the 
semester), they find me in my lab, standing in 
front of a lab bench strewn with Erlenmeyer 
flasks, test tubes, beakers and other parapher­
nalia. It's mostly familiar stuff to anybody who 
has struggled through high school chem and 
Emil. 
Nonetheless, first time visitors stand uncer­tainly in the hallway, eyeing the big yellow sign on the door. It says, "Caution, Radioactive Material, Authorized Personnel Only," and deters all but the most intrepid, at least for a minute. Once they make it past the sign, though, most students seem curious about what actually goes on in the lab. They want to know about molecular biology research, but they also want a glimpse of the other, alien university that coexists with their own. Here, the major concerns are research, publica­tions, grants and other forms of mature scholarly activity. Many students don't believe it, but most faculty are more than eager to share this part of their lives with them. 
So what actually goes on in my lab? To ex­plain this requires a little bit of digression. Most people are familiar with the notion ofthe "genetic code" the set of n&les by which a series of nucleotides or bases, on DNA molecule (A,G,C,T) is read in words of three such that the cellular machinery. for con­structing proteins translates a particular se­quence of three nucleotides to mean a 
particular amino acid. For example, the se­quence A TG corresponds to a methionine in the final protein molecule (an RNA which is a replica ·of the DNA sequence) and an "adaptor" molecule called a tRNA. The adap­tor recognizes the code word on the mes­senger and allows it to be physically matched up with the proper amino acid. Thus, con­struction ofa protein involves a nucleotide se­quence as well as a recognition-adaptor molecule, which tells the other non-specific 
enzymes in the cell where and how to act. 
That's the genetic code that most people know about. But, ifyou think a little bit about nucleic acids, you'll realize that there must be much more coded information in the DNA se­quence than just this. The enzymes in the cell must have some way to recognize where in­dividual genes begin and end, and whera to start making RNA molecules. The DNA must be replicated every generaion, starting at a specific place. It turns out, also, that RNA molecules are modified before they actually · 
are translated, by addition of a series of A nucleotides to one end, and by removal and 
rejoining of particular pieces within the 
molecule. There must be a kind of second 
genetic code, to allow the cell to do all these 
things properly. This information must be em­
bedded within the DNA sequence, perhaps, in 
a way analogous to that ofthe genetic code for 
protein sequences. 

The simple-minded solution to this actually 
turns out to be true, for a change. Particular 
DNA sequences "mean" certain things to the 
cellular machinery, apart from the traditional 
meanings of the genetic code. For example, 
the sequence TATA means "start an RNA 
molecule 30 bases down from here," while 
the sequence AUAAA means "cut this 
molecule 50 bases down and add some A 
residues to the end." Similar types of code 
words exist for the beginning and end of DNA 
replication, and for various types of RNA 
modifications. Thus, this second genetic code 
shares many propenies with the first, since 
particular sequences of DNA are recognized 
and acted upon, although not literally 
translated, by specific effector molecules wit­
hin the cell. 

The second genetic code is less universal and less rigid than the first, since variations are possible for some ofthe sequences. TheTATA sequence, for example, is not exactly the same for all genes; it may be TATAA, TATATA, TATAAA, etc. Almost all genes have some ver­sion of this sequence, though, in ap­proximately the same place, so that people are pretty confident that TAT A is imponant. It does seem rather strange that this son of sloppiness is allowed to occur in biological systems, where precision should be the rule. 
Perhaps the protein molecules which 
recognize these sequences are not simple 
adaptors lik~ tRNA, and take a more active 
role in assuring specificity. 

The third type of genetic code is not yet understood, and is the basis for work in my lab. We know, at least in outline, what signals are needed to make proper RNAs and protein. These include TATA and other sequences mentioned above. The next question is, how 
does the cell know when to express a par­ticular gene? All genes have all ofthe right sig­nals all of the time, because their sequences are identical in every cell ofan organism. How is it, then, that many genes are most quiet most of the time? All of the inforamtion must be present, but not acted upon. Thus, another layer of"code" must be needed, to modulate the extent and timing of expression of genes in different cells. This question is a tough one and is going to keep a lot oflabs busy for quite a longtime. 
It is already clear that the third layer ofcode is going to be much more complicated than the first two. Unlike the proteincode, which is interpreted by adaptor molecules which are identical for every gene in every cell, the third <:ode will have to involve modulations in the adaptors themselves. Thus, to truly under­stand how any particular gene is regulated, it will be necessary to identify both of the im­fiOttant components: the DNA sequence which is being read, and the protein molecules which interact with this sequence. 
In my lab, we are studying a set ofregulated genes in a simple yeast. These genes are not expressed at all under normal conditions, and are very dramatically "turned on" during meiosis. All six of the genes we are looking at act exactly the same way, and we think that they may share a regulatory signal with each other that most other genes in the cell would lack. We have cloned these genes and are now 
The Viewpoint Department 
P·.O.BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46656 
trying to identify the DNA sequences which work. This is actually pretty hard to do with they contain which are responsible for this most organisms, so we're lucky to have regulation. Our tentative hypothesis is that chosen to work with yeast. We are now genes that have the same regulation will have looking for variant strains ofyeast which don't identifiable sequence similarities adjacent to know how to regulate our genes properly. We the actual gene. We are now sequencing expect that some of these will be altered in several of our genes to see if this turns out to the regulatory sequences above, and will help be true. If so, we will judiciously alter the se­to confirm that our sequencing information quences which seem to be imponant, has given us the right result. Other variants reintroduce the altered genes into the cell, will be altered in the other, protein com­and test to see ifthe genes still work normally. ponents of the regulation system. These, we 
As mentioned above, identification of the hope, will allow us to identify the entire imponant DNA sequences is only half of the regulatory system and really understand these 
•story. It would actually be more imponant to genes in some detail. The results should be 
identify the molecules which interact with applicable to regulatory systems in higher or­the regulatory sequences, to see how they ganisms as well. 
Saint Mary's continues 
tradition of innovation 
Spirituality presented a two-week intensiveDaring undenakings have been part of life program on the spirituality of the Spanish
at Saint Mary's ,ever since the Sisters of the mystics, Teresa of Avila andJohn of the Cross.
Holy Cross founded the College nearly 150 Over 200 laity, sisters and clergy from as far
years ago. Pioneering was the creation, in the away as Toyko, Mexico, Brazil and Scotland
1940s, of a graduate school ~f theology by panicipated in this rigorous study ofthe textsSister Madeleva, internationally known poet ofthe two mystics. This summer program, theand president of the College. In this program, symposium for alumnae, and the Madelevawomen earned graduate degrees in theology, 
an opportunity available them lecture on spirituality will be repeated in
not to el­1986 along with other events soon to be an­
sewhere. Innovative too, was Professor Bruno nounced.
Schlesinger's Christian Culture Program (now As befits a women's College, the Center for
humanistic studies) which got underway in Spirituality focuses attention on the theme ofthe 1950s. 
women in the Church, especially on the development of programs that prepare
Keith Egan 
women to be leaders in the Church. The Church will need to look more and more to guest column women to provide effective leadership in an era of laity. The center wishes to avoid, 
In the same spirit as these epterprises, Saint however, all exclusivism, and is anxious that. Mary's College has established a Center for 
both men and women participate in its Spirituality. The center's activities were in­
programs which are non-degree. augurated by the Madeleva lecture in 
The spirit ofthe Center for Spirituality is, as is fitting, evolving, but also wishes to be faith­
spirituality presented on March 28, 1985 by ful to the ideals presented in 1984 to the
Professor Monika Hellwig ofGeorgetown Uni­Board ofRegents in the proposal which states,
versity. Paulist Press has published this "Saint Mary's College has a unique heritage
lecture as "Christian Women in a Troubled out of which it can contribute to the forma­
World." tion ofwomen as leaders in the Church. Many
Ideas for the creation of a Center for signs indicate the upcoming decades will wit­
Spirituality emerged in 1983 as the College nesS a continued and growing interests in
sought ways to focus on its religious heritage spirituality and, in panicular, in what may be
at the same time as it moved abead with the called the feminine aspects of spirituality."
strong academic standing that it had achieved This proposal admits that "Saint Mary's Col­
in its last 1 0 years. A proposal for such a center lege has not been spared the turmoil and the
was submitted to William Hickey, then vice challenges" of the turbulent era since Vatican
president of the College, and to former Presi­II. "Nevenheless, Saint Mary's College has
dentlohn Duggan, both ofwhom enthusiasti­emerged from these demanding years, not as a 
cally endorsed the notion of a Center for casualty, but as an outstanding and vibrant
Spirituality at Saint Mary's College. On March Catholic liberal arts college for women." The
28, 1984, the Board of Regents formally ap­Center for Spirituality pledges to affirm, in its
proved the proposal for the Center for undenakings, the College's commitment toSpirituality. 
the search for justice and peace, an affirmationThe Sisters of the Holy Cross immediately that is fraudulent without this commitment.
embraced the idea of the center with a large An advisory board of faculty, ad­financial contribution. In the fall of 1984, a ministrators, Holy Cross Sisters and studentssearch for a co-director of the center cul­already have begun to work with the center'sminated in the appointment to this post of co-directors to lay the groundwork for the im­Doris Donnelly, who, with her characteristic plementation of the dreams of the center,energy, assumed her duties as co-director on which is not a place on campus, but a symbolSept. 1, 1985. A new venture was underway at for the entire community ofSaint Mary's Col­Saint Mary's College. 
lege who dare once again to undertake a new
The center's first event following the Hel­venture when budget cuts everywhere say,
lwig lecture was a symposium on "Women in "Try nothing new." Saint Mary's believes thethe Church," presented by Rosemary Center for Spirituality is a way of expressingHaughton and Nancy Schwoyer at the June and sharing, in the modern world, the sacred1985 reunion ofSaint Mary's alumnae. Bishop traditions brought to the College by theJoseph Imesch, chairman ofthe American bis­Sisters ofthe Holy Cross in the 1840s.
hops' committee that is writing a pastoral let­ter on "Women in the Church," accepted the center's invitation to attend sessions of the 
symposium as an observer. A repon on this • Kettb Egan is co-director ofthe Center for symposium will appear in the Saint Mary's Spirituality and cbatrman of the religious Courier. 
studies department atSaintMary's. He is also During the summer of 1985, the Center for adjunctprofessoroftheologyatNotre Dame. 

Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager .... ................ David StepheOIIch 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan Controller ................... ........ William J. Highducheck 
News Editor ............................................. Frank Upo Advertising Manager . ...........................Jim Hagan The Observer IS the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Systems Manager.............. . . Mark B. Johnson Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the Production Manager.. . ....... John A. Men nell 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­
Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb Sible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy tanes, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space IS Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches campus. through letters. is encouraged. Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Wolf Founded November 3, 1966 
Friday, December 13, 1985 -page 1 0 
Tht' Obst'rl't'r Notr.-Dam.-olfk.-. I<Kated on th.-third floor of Lah>rtunt· Studt·nt Center. an·ep" dal>sifit'd ad,·ertisin~t from<) a.m. until -1 p.m...\1onda\ throu!(h l'rida\ l'ht' Obst't'l'f?r Saint \1an··, offkt·. locatt·d on the th1rd floor ol llaggar Collt"!(t' Ct'ntt'r. an·t'pts dassifit'ds from ll::\0 p.m. until :\p.m.. :\1on· day though Friday lkadlin.-for nt·xt·da\ da'>ilkds is .~ p.m. All da"ifit'ds must h.-prt'paid. rith.-r m prrson or 11\ mail <:hargt· is I 0 n·nts pt'r fh't' charat··
Classifieds 
t.-rs r da\'. 
NOTICES 

TYPING CAU. CH...DWWF Loet: Kodak DiK camano 3100 Ill the LSU ~ either In the a!Miium "' on Gra.l­lield. I can poeitively identify. PleeM return. Cal AWy c.ol ]2114-5242 
La.T: Till-GOLD IRACBZT UTU,._ DAY NIGHT AT 0111 IIETWRI!N fLAJt. 
HELP! NEED RIDE TO DC ON SAT 1V21. PLEASE CAll MAURA 28s.-34n 
RIDERS-Wanted to W81tch81tw/NYC wea. c.n leave 19th"'20th; lhwe uauel. Ca1Tomat2n-o2a11. 
WHERE FOR ART THOU, MANNING? 
HEY IHOIITYI PUIIPKINHIEADI Happy BirthdiJy Homeboy!!! Mike eure that you eat a lot pizza'"' yourfal gut. Too bad -can't drink aome grein and flnd a llaveto-)lour tiM while Mting eome 
YO GLOR, HAPPY 20th BIRTHDAY! LOVE, BRIAN,JEFF ,STEVE.MIKE,TOM. JOE,J.J.,TOM,MARV,AND HARRY AND MADELYNN. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO ALUMNI RESI­
BEATS-KICK BUT ON EXAMS NEXT WEEK! LOVE, THE PSYCHO 
MIKE MAU..IE: IS YOUR UNDERWEAR THAWED YET? I HOPE YOU LEARNED YOUR LESSON. -CINDY 
HELP WANTED $60.00 PER HUNDRED PAID ICJf ~ng !Mil at homal Information. 
-Mit--.~ envalope. 
~a.... Bollll5, Roeeh. -Jeraay 07203 
TYPING 2774141 AIEl! PICKUP & DeLIVERY 
TYPING 
Jac:lde .... te4-87lll 

FEDERAL. STATE AND CIVIL SERVICE J08S NOW AVAII..AIILE IN YOUR AREA. FOR INFO. CAll (602) 837-3401 DEPT. 13611. 
Pit<>TYPE • Ov• 1 I yn. _,.
.....,...zt,. In 
-J181*8, ch­

_..._ ... J181*8, ,_,__ 277· lUI. 
................................. 
EJIPIJIT TYPING ARVICIE. CAU. llllla. COltER 2»-7001. 
RIDERS NEEDED 10 eonn.ctK:ul (N­car-..)on T'hln. Dec. 111 leaving eround 4:00. Cal c..y 2n-5820. 
W•llrMiy YOU IMwal THAT -.gie'l THATnoght,andileo.. WHY-'Iyou with a TOWNIE? NO MORE CRABS AND CHAMPAGNE?? What wiiM.ine do? 
FUNKSHUNART FUNKSHUNAAT FUNKSHUNAAT FUNKSHUNAAT FUNK8HUNAAT Oreal Ch'*"-Gll1a Original Art TM-ehlrta and Prinl8 by Paul ~ 28S..51118 FUNKSHUNAAT FUNKSHUNAAT FUNKSHUNAAT FUNKSHUNART FUNKSHUNAAT 
.....,.._....-. 

110 -.'• a 17-. .,.. In mr ,_ 
,_NO-7:JIIMo..a:JOptn 2 Off I dlly8 a 
--c.ll.,..._~.., 
LOST/FOUND 

LOST: IF YOU WERE AT ALUMNI'S FOAMAL NOV 23. YOU MAY HAVE MY co.tiTII MY FRIEND PICKED UP A WOMEN'S LONO BEIGE WOOl co.tiT WHICH LOOKS A LOT UKE MINE. IF YOU HAVE A SIMilAR co.tiT WITH 11A0WM TRIM AND BROWN BUTTONS PLEASE CAll 2114-5543 OR 5&26. I 
HAVE YOURS! 
LOST: NOTRE DAME CLASS RING ON PATH BETWEEN HURLEY AND ART BUILDING IN THE SNOW CAll SCOTT 4075 REWARD OFFERED 
LOST: HELPIIIoet my glaMel and now I can't -· Thay have gold. "*-',_ 
and elighlly tinted .... The giMMI 
-.Ina lOll. <*~!brown caee. H you lind 
them,~'*' Joe 1113404. $Reward$. 
LOST MISSING LOST MISSING LOST Red F-..-ng from South Dining Hal 
FOUND FOUND FOUND FOUND FOUND FOUND FOUND GOLD LADIES QUARTZ WATCH BETWEEN WALSH AND HAYEB-HEALY CAU. DAN AT 
25515 
WOULD THE YOUNG MAN WHO BORROWED THE SPANISH BROCHURES FROM THE MODERN LANGUAGES OFFICE BEFORE THANKSGIVING PLEASE RETURN THEM IMMEOlATELY. WE NEED THEM! 
LOST: A PAIR OF PEARl STUD EAR­RINGS, ONE BA()I(EN. ENCASED IN A SMALl. PLASTIC JEWELRY BAG. THEY WERE A GRADUATION GIFT. AND HAVE MUCH SENTIMENTAL VALUE! IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL BETH AT X3861. 
LOST LOST LOST LOSTLOSTLOST LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST REO FOLDER MISSING FROM SOUTH OlNING HALL AROUND NOV 
22. I WANT IT! IF FOUNO. PLEASE. PLEASE CALL X3861. 
FOUND: one pair ollld1ng glov• 1n room 123 Nleuwfand Sd....,. Hal. Go to t.o.t and Found on the MCOild 11oor ol La For\Jne to identify and c:Mim. 
MISSING: Wale!. -·rTWOon-con­18ine v..,.tlle idenllflcellon II you have II "' know whwe Ilia, ~ return 10 148 Moniuay (34 78). llllOilyfllOUal ~ you -IINEED IT BACK. Thanl<a. Marl< Ucl!ona 
FOUND: ORTHOOONTIC RETAINERS (YUCK) AND VARIOUS SINGLE EAR· RINGS. IF YOUR OVERBITE IS GET­TING A LITTLE 08VIOUS OR IF AN EARI.08E FEELS UNDULY EXPOSED CLAIM THESE ARTICLES AT THE LOST AND FOUND. SECOND FLOOR LAFORTUNE. 
LOST NOV. 25 LUNCH TIME AT SOUTH DINING HALL -BLUE NO BOOK BAG W!INITIALS M.W. PLEASE CAll MIKE AT 234-1087. EXTREMELY IMPOR­TANT 
MilER & liP. PUAU CALL All't AT 1-IF FOUND AND I'U.IIUY YOU A .IEI!R. I CAN'T IIIITUflN HOlliE WIT· HOUT IT 0111 IIY 11011 WILL IOL­LU.LU.lll 
Loal: multicolored woolen IIC8<1 ol great IWlllmenllllvllue12-lllnO'ShagCJfNCJflh Dining Hal. R-.I. Cal AW)' M 2206 
la.T:P.-I ... IIIrllceW......,, Dec. 7, M ACC, SactiGn 14.lanll-*l velue. lllawwd. c.ll 272-71101 aller I p.m. 
HIEU' U.l red l(lh-.1 nollil>ool< Friday. Dec. 6. H• nol81 fCJf Lit. CleM-neild fCJf finale. If found, plaua «*! Kev 1750. ThAnka and Marry Chriatmu. 
LOST MY KEYS BY THE BUSINESS BUILDING LAST THURSDAY. IF YOU HAVE FOUND THEM. PLEASE CAll GEORGE AT 1072. 
TO THE GUYS IN GRACE HALL WHO BORROWED MY UNCLE'S SPARE TIRE; PLEASE CAll ME AT 1072 TO RETURN IT. THANKS! 
LOST:TENNIS SWEATER DURING THE SMC SENIOR FORMAL FRIDAY AT THE AMEAICANA.PROIIABL Y LOST IN SOME ROOM ON THE ELEVENTH FLOOR. PLEASE CAll CHRIS AT 288­55112 OR STOP BY 601 COABY BL VO. 
LOST-SET OF KEYS ON A IIAI..LOON KEY CHAIN. LOST POSSIBLY AT THE CENTURY CENTER ON FRIDAY NIGHT. IF FOUND PLEASE CAll MARY 28-4-5073. 
HELP! I loll my dark bkJe Mllet Ill the Ien­nie oour1a In the ACC NCJflh OQfne "'in the hockey-on Tueeclay nighl12/10al the Zahm va. Pangborn gM~e. I really need the atulf In lhOife. eapacialy my a ~cenee eo I can go to bara <NW lnak. II found PLEASE «*! Ann at 4416 THANKS! 
LOST: HP 15C CALCULATOR SOME­WHERE BETWEEN 127 NSH AND HOLY ~OSS HALL. GENEROUS REWARD IF RETURNED. MORE IF BEFORE FINALSIIIT HAS MY NAME ON THE BACK. ALAN LUI X2561 123 HC. 
Found-Tlmell Ou-.tz Wald1 on South Clued on Thure. Cal3444 
LOST-Gold ca-oi'B-4 Highachool Ring. II found, ~lake to THE OBSERVER olllce. 
LOST: A GOLD WATCH EITHER IN THE CHEMISTRY LECTURE ROOM OR SOMEWHERE BETWEEN IT AND BAOlN HALL. IF FOUND PLEASE CAll SHANNON AT 3705. EXTREMELY IM­PORTANT. 
LOST: Brown Michel inC parl<ing lot -t ol ACC. Contenta important. Keep utchel. Cal Vince collect 1-293-5611. 
WANTED 
NEED one male roommlile fCJf next ~er. TurHe Cr-. ea12n-2t16. 
Ride needed to Ll, NY. can IMve 20 Dec aher 4pm 0121 Dec. Cal4083. 
walking dl1tance to campu1. cheap rent. $113.75 per month, 1hwed uti~ti ... fur­nilhed. two bath, two relrigoratere. 287­7178 
I NEED A AIDE TO SYRACUSE/UTICA AREA. CAN LEAVE WED. 12/18 AFTER 10 wn. WILL SHARE EXPENSES! CALL PAUL AT 1605 
Need ride on l-80 to Eaal PA.can leave 12/111or20-R08272-o828 
NEED: ride to D.C./ northern VA wea. can leave Fridlly night. Sean. 3413 
BOSTON BOUND? NEED RIDE ON 19 OR 20. ED 2347083 
Need a ride to Rocheller. NY IQf X-mu. Can leave Fri. 12/20 al 12:30 PM. Tarry x2045. 
Need ridera to D.C. Laav1ng 1V18 "' 1V19 Cal David 272/383311p 
AlDERS neded to Rochelilw,NY on Fr1,1V20AM. Cal2504 
nde needed to PITTSBURGH thur Dec 18, Scott 2531 
AIDES OFFERED to CLEVELAND/AKRON, leav1ng Mrly Bat. Dec. 21. calf Mike at1806 
DESPERATELY SEEKING A AlOE TO ATLANTA LEAVING FRI. MORNING 1V20 OR SAT MORNING 1V21. WIL­LING TO SHARE USUAl. EXPENSES. ANY HELP WOULD BE GREATLY AP­PRECIATED. CALL CHRISTINE 28-4­
43110. 

NEED RIDE NO NJ DEC 20 JANET 2114-4346 
Rider needed to PHILA/S. Jaraay. Depwt 12121. Cal2n-5913 after6 
HELP! NEED A RIDE BACK FROM CT. ON JAN. 13th OR 14th TO SCHOOL -CAll 28-4-42581MMEDIATELY 
FOR RENT 
6 BEDROOM HOME.CLOSE TO CAMPUS.272-8306 
QIIIAO .-nJDIENT IIOOIISI00/110 277­2041 
Son>eoneto eublelapl. on NO Ave. Fum. Only $107/mo. Call Sh1rley at 234-6647 (If Alex ..288-5447. 
3 bed IIPI 1-,1/2 m. from NO. Call 234­8743after5. 
FOR SALE 
APPLE 1200 MODEM. VERY LITTLE USE. $200 O.B.O 23S..7160 OR 233­121111. 
SKIS ICJf aale: H.. Comp CR'a wlbindlnga 200 cm,minl Erik 1623 
VW BUG 1970, exc.running cond. $300 firm. Call233-3509. 
NA MIKON. FTN 35mm camera with 28, 50, 135, 200mm le,_, flHere, tripod, menuela. leather cue., elc. Ex«**enl. $1500/olfer. 219/233-11150. 
TICKETS 
I bacly need 3 UCLA baakalbtlll ticketa. Contact Ju~• 2n-o111 
PERSONALS 
OAR..HOLJSE·; COLD BEER & LIQUOR 
CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N.. 1 

BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
PREGNANT? 
NUDHELP? 
Call 234-<1363. 24-hr. hodine, counaeling 
& free pregnancy-· 
WOMIEH'8 CAR£ CEHTIEIII 
Earn $$$ '"' .. thoee booka you didn't read!! PANDORA'S wil buy your uaed booka M-F 11-4. 01 -can help you lind a uaed book ICJf a GMI. We're open M-F 11­6, SAT & SUN 10.5. PANDORA'S ia op­poeite CORBY'S a1937 South Bend Ave. 
HUNGRY? Cell YELLOW SUBMARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery Hours: Monday­Thuredlly 5pm-12am; Frldlly 5pm-2am; Salurdlly 3pm-1am; Sunday 4pm-1 Opm 
You'veaeenthem. You've heard llboutthem. Now you can get them! HOOP HYITJEIIIA T -8HIIITI 
'"' Logan Center 
lhort (If long aJeev• Cal 2078 "' 2089 fCJf delivery 
Sonia, Aaubar. SuMn. Erica GOOD LUCK on your finale, I love ya1 Have 1 great ChriatmM and a bubbly N-Year!II Jenny 
ltAimNA NAVMnLOVA, 
DAVID~!, 
ULYTOI&IN, 
JAIIU DUN, 
ELTON JOHN, AND 
LOUIIII!IED HAVIE NOT GIONJE THIIIOUGH UFE WITH ONE HAND nED IIIEHINO THIEIIII IIACitl. LOVE WHOMEVER YOU AlliE IIOVIEDTD LOVE· AND GIVE OTHIEM THE lA.-FUIEDOII. GA.,. & LS ..ANI AT ND~, P.O. IM)X , .., NOTRE DAilE. IN 48111. 
Need rldllto COLUMBUS, OHIO Friday, 1V20P.M. -Monica4143 
llruce lprt......, Uve TIIPM For .....Uat includee el 3 NO lhowa and many from 84-85. GrMI Gift. Cal2011 lor info 
RIDE NEEDED TO PITT. FOR X-MAS BREAK (OR ANYWHERE ON OHIO/PA TPKE.)LEAVE 1V21-MARY284-4041. 
lroun -....Lal'a get crazy and give that r~ger a lh.,_. Good lucl! wi1h your new edventur81 in lualf-!Have a HO HO HOIIDOY Happy~-
DfltVIHGI EAST FOR llfiiEAK? I need a ride to Pttt811uflh leaving Saturdlly, Dec. 21 c.. AWy at2169 
WANTED AIDE TO CHICAGO AFTER FINALS ON FRIDAY DEC. 20, 1985 LET A NICE CIIRL GO HOME FOR CHRISTMAS. CALL FRAN 2687 
I'LL HAVE A BLUE CHRISTMAS WITHOUT 2 TIXS TO 8 O'CLOCK GLEE CLUB SHOW GALL JOE 1927 
WANTED: Ride to Chicago ar81 alter linala aometime Friday, Dec. 20. Lat a nice giri go home ICJf Chrillmu. Cal Fren 2687. 
Dol, congrab1 on your job offer. Yup­piedom here you come. 
To Thoae Wild Girll ol Lewi1l Hey guye, whal'l lhalcin?! Are you STILL pounding lh..e a·a & jamming that Bowie and REM(ol counsel Who do you think thia il anyway?)fOI me? And Kathy, I forgot to 1111<-<*d you ever nnd a lllg/llly mulhed hamburger bun lhiiiUmmer?1-10 have loa! 1111ne aomewhwe... Merry X­
U. guye end good IUCI< with flnall. But, moat imporumlly, ARE YOU SERIOUS!!! Love, Suean P .S. And 110 Sean. we 1UI -lching them ducka with me? Pretty durrb incredibl&-eh? Lolal L<Ne babe. 
NO Field He<:kay TMm aiiiO hM a loyal lolowing on the Eaal COM!. We may not be rowdy. but we're there. Congratula­tiona to Jil and her girte on aline MMOO. And thanka to the Obaerver fCJf covenng lhegamae.llll nneathlelae dae<lrvepr­coveraga. T'a. P.S. Pat11, your room ia ready. 
IT IS POSSIBLE TO FALL IN LOVE IN A MONTH. OR LESS-BUT IT TAKES A LOT LONGER TO FALL OUT OF LOVE. 
()l(lAHQW, IS OK! 

To the FOXIEST FIGHTING IRISHMAN whol ba 22 on the 20th ... Good kJck on finale I Happy Birlhdlly! When wil ­
celebrate? L<:Ne, your p ..ner L. 

HELP! NEED AIDE TO MINNEAPOLIS OVER CHRISTMAS. WILL SHARE EX­PENSES CALL LEE ANN 284-5520. 
ATTENllON Gloria Eleuteri wiH be 20 tomorrow! To the woman who -born ready: Holy 
Samoli! Ira been 20 y..,! whlilwe you waiung fCJf? Do you care? Doaa ij matter? Are you BEAT? Need I even 1111< th­quaetione? Happy Birlhdlly Glo. L<:Ne. Your Favorite Roommate 
................................................................. 
Hey Howard Beach Bume! The FUN atwtl after pafietalal Carolling -never euch a phyejcal experience. We'd rather watch the eun riM over the dunea than go ice-tlkating any dey. Luv your SMC Snow Bunni81. 
Happy 10 Kathryn S!l! I know il'a really Oec.21 but then I won'tba here. Hey Guye wiah her ''" aweaome B-Day at 284­51821! luv Ya! -Your ~ke Psych Nke 
Buddy. 
JC -chortlecl lately? 

SYLVIA(THE MEX)-Good lucl! on exama­you'l do GAEAT!Love,your S.S. 
DON"r LEAVE CIIIEADONIIII 
DON''f LEAVE CAEADONIIII 
TO: CLARE MOIRA CHRISTY AOSEY MAUREEN 
FIIIOII: MOOSE JOEY SEX 
THURSDAY SPAGHETTI 
THilNKS FOR ASKING US 

P.1. The plant belonga to the hotel. you 
have to return it. liiERIIIY CHRIITIIAI 
HAPPYB-DAY C.AIIIOL llfiiOWN -The Viewpoint people 

DENT JOHN KEEGEN, ALIAS RONNY' FROM NANCY, GEORGE, MEL. THE COURT JESTER, AND LIZ. 
STEVE, JOHN, KEVIN. DAVE, AND JOHN 2 FOR AEC-M OF THE CEN­TURY. 
TO THE BREAKFAST HEADB-THANKS FOR THE BEAUTIFUL ROSES! YOU GUYS ARE THE GREATESTIII LOVE, RE 
Tom-c.n you believe it'a been a y­81nce -_,, to Pizza Hut? 11'1 been a Marry-Go-Round, but i1'1 been fun! I'm going to miM you carioada next Hm81ter. Happy Birlhdlly! L<Ne. Maura 
MERRY CHRISTMAS to thoae lrienda­mieaed Dan & Jim Bobb 
HAVE A DANDY DUCKY X-MAS 
TO scon who WHINES about never gelling a ptnonal-here'a your peraonal. 
.. • .AND YOUIII EYES ME UKE PIEAIILIIN THE IUNSHINIE. ... IIIEIIIIIY CHIIIIITIIAIIEN 
II anyone -nta a dille who will-but not plaua, call PENNY(SMC) 
RICK W:SANTA LOVES YOU! MERRY DAY! 
JIENHIFIER IIOOTT.... 1 LOOOOOOOOOVVVVE YOUI 
TOM OAfiROW-HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY ON DEC. 24 TO MY BROT­HER. MY FRIEND. 
MELISSA WOCHNER-YOUR KK IS WATCHING! 
To the other hall of our ITIIXIKI-aex dyad. mCJfe interp<nonel interaction <IIIIa i1 needed. Your participation i1 esae,...•tlllto eucceaa olthe prOject. Study? BAH' The 
LOYe Van and who knowe ..-·•' ­awaila. Reply in pereon.-The Proleeaor. 
TOll & DJEMIE, CONGIIIATULAnONS ON A GIIIJEAT HIIU'TD'. GOOD LUCK WITH YOUIII FINALS. LOVE, DAD & llAMA D 
QUHa WHO WILL-21 ON DEC. 24 • THE «*PVER'I QUOTH MAN. CAU. TOll AT nn AND WISH Hill A 
HAPPY MITHDAY. 
Jim PMmO/f, Thanka fCJf everything You're Super!! Marry Chnllmu. 
Love. Mana 
Molly, You're the baeleat. I'm goong to miaa you!! Love. Stacie 
Charf<e. Nieuwland wor!'tba the ume wit­hout you. Good luck next year! Slacle 
TO THE LADY IN IIIED II it really 288 calori81 per mouthful? even '"' llumni?! Marry Chriatmae! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY K.T. DON'T WORRY. YOU ARE NOT OVER THE HILL. REMEMBER, WOMEN REACH THEIR SEXUAL PEAK AT 32! WHAT ABOUT MEN AT 26? SEE VA AT BRIDGET'S ON THE 19TH. BRING ON THE TEOUILLA! 
CKH--Congratulationa on your n-ap­pointment. Milor1L<Ne. Big Si1 
WETTA. il'l been a greal3 1/2 yeare. 1'1 mi.. you tona. Good luck! L<Ne, the li'l 
Wetta. 
NiEw.JiEfiaiEv·c-:rw·auivoo 
CAN liON UP TODAY 1-J AT THE OIIUD DdK IN LAFOIITUNE S60 IIIOUNOTIIIIP. 284-1411 
JANE, MARTINA WON 6-2, 4-6, 8-2 
CHRIS EVERET -LLOYD: SHE MAY NOT WIN,BUT AT LEAST SHE'S NOT UGLY! 
CHAIR-WOMAN,.BROOM LAOY,AND NICKNAMELESS ONE: GOOD LUCK WITH FINALS AND YA'LL HAVE A MEA­RAY CHAISTMAS.OH YEAH NICKNAMELESS ONE!BE SURE AND HAVE A VERY HAPPY BIRTHDAY! TEDDY 
Dear ELF: Your loan II -<:Ner due. I muat repoeaaaa your legwwmere. If you want them back plua another big gilt, «*! 1484 
To M(Pebblae)USG: If you 11Udy agam in lhe Nbrary, -tell oul '"' Sfray calv• croaaing your path. How ljboul them Bewa? ll'era wil kick lhier ...... Freon 
STEVQ-ROSES ARE RED. VIOLETS ARE BLUE IT'S BEEN A GREAT TWO YEARS AND I STILL LOVE YOU! LEEN­BEATS 
Mr. Pink Cloud, Thanka '"' baing kind ol 1unny and fuzzy when I wMn'l. Good luck on Hnala and future m<Nie picka. (1'1 bring pop­
corn.) 
me REINE, MARCIA, NAN, ERIN, MARY CAROL, KATIE, MARGARET. LORI, AND PATTY THANX FOR THE GREAT PARTY LAST SATURDAY. THOUGH IT GOT CUT SHORT, FUN WAS HAO BY ALL. OUR CHRISTMAS IS NOW COM­PLETE. YOU GIRLS ARE ALL BEAUTI­FUL AND TERRIFIC HOSTESSES. LOVE YOUR NOTRE DAME AD­MIRERS! 

MERRY CHRISTMAS TO MY FRIENDS ON 5 NORTH! HAVE A GREAT BREAK! MJ 
TO THE MEN OF STATELY WAYNE: YOU ENTERTAINED US WITH PARTIES ALL SEMESTER LONG AND FRANNY'S CAR WAS A HIT WITH THAT STUFF FROM A BONG ALL OVER THEY TRAVELED TO TAKE PART IN YOUR FLINGS AND ON HALLOWEEN THEY STOLE ALL OF YOUR THINGS. YOU HUNG E.J. BY THE CHIMNEY WITH CARE A GRAND OLD GIFT FROM GOOD OL' MARE. TIMMY WAS ALWAYS DAPPER IN HIS COAT AND SHORTS BIT WHILE JOHN PATIENTLY WAITED FOR THE ARRIVAL OF A GRIT. DAVE COULD BE SEEN DANCING BENT OVER AT THE WAIST WHILE FIG COLLECTED MONEY WITH SUCH GREAT HASTE FRANNY WOULD ENTERTAIN WITH HIS INDIVIDUAL STYLE WITH PETE ALWAYSATTHETAPES IN A PILE. THIS GROUP OF GUYS THROUGH PARTIES GALORE AND NOW WHEN YOU VISIT YOUR FEET STICK TO THE FLOOR. WE COULD NEVER PUT IN WORDS WHAT YOU GUYYS MEAN TO US NO MATIER WHAT WE ASKED YOU 
NEVER PUT UP A FUSS. SO WELCOME THE HOLIDAYS IN YOUR OWN ORIGINAL WAYS WE'LL AEALL Y LOOK FORWARD TO NEXT SEMESTER'S DAYS. LOVE, MARY, DENISE, LYNN. AMY, EMILY, KARLA. ANNIE. BETHE. AND TRISH. 
TO ALL OUR SPECIAl. FRIENDS AND EVEN A COUPLE AMUSING ENEMIES: WE WISH YOU A MERRY CHRISTMAS AND A HAPPY NEW YEAR! HAVE A JOYFUL BREAK! LOVE ALWAYS. JILl AND PAN 
SMC LITTLE SISTERS ARE COMING' LOOK IN TODAY'S MAILBOX FOR MORE INFO! 
MEAAY X-MAS REGINA SN. COL. HEIDI. TAM. BOO, MAR, AI., MAURA. KAR, BRIDGE SMCS ONI.Y SORORITY ... CARE BEAR 
JOHN (227 GRACE): TOO BAD THINGS DIDN'T WORK OUT! GO LCK ON EX­AMS. HAVE A GREAT BREAK. HOPE TO MEfT YOU SOMEDAY-CARRIE 
HEX-TANO 4 ALWAYS BEING THERE 4 ME' YOU'VE MADE MY 1at SEM. A BlAST' HALLOWEEN, MR. DEE'S, THE COMMONS, FLIGHTS HOME. NAUGLES, BIFF... MEMORIES WILL HAVE TO FlU YOUR SPACE UNTIL 
NEXTYEAA. GOOD LUCK INROME.I'M SURE IT WILL BE PHENOMENAL' !'LL MISS YOU · KEEP IN TOUCH -UA 4EN FAND 
JAKE, How 'bout a candlelight picnoc? (Chria1mM carola. wine. and me?) Thu,... Dec. 19 6pm. My Place-FANNIE 
HAVELY JO FATSO-Hope you have a way oullandllhly cool Chri1tmu -I'IITIIM you. ·H.S. 
Mike, HAPPY BIRTHDAY! 6 dllye Mrly IIIIo 3 dllye early. L<Ne ya, T.B. 
It's ovar and nowit'a "out !hare," but hey­we've •••n it and we know! 
MERRY CHRISTMAS 

Sue, Scoop, JIN, Phil. Sarah, Mo. Dr81m TMm. Viewpoint people, Buaineae Typae and PMI Marwlck groupi81, auorted lluta, Dynufy -lchere, COBOL godl and godeeaea. Ther-and her 1-ter. my favorite lr•hmen triple, and other ae­aorted M ...regulara and catlovera. 
Maryflen 

HEY MEEGAN -HAVE A WONDERFUL CHRISTMAS WITH THE FAMILY. I'LL SEE YOU IN PARIS FOR NEW YEAR'S. MARCIA CAN'T WAIT TO MEET YOU, SHE'S HEARD SO MUCH ABOUT YOU (All BAD). GOOD LUCK WITH YOUR FINALS. LOVE, MJS 
ATTENTION MARY WILLIAMS: MERRY CHRISTMAS TO YOU AND YOUR FAMILY! SEE YOU IN GOOD OLD WEST ORANGE, NEW JERSEY! LOVE, 
MJ 



r---·--------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Friday, December 13, 1985 -page 11 

Women 
continuedfrom page 16 
establish consistency by working ag­gressively everyday at practice. As a coach, I can only describe a level of competition, then they have to ex­perience it and know what level of 
skill it takes to win. That motivates · 
them in practice, and that is what 
makes great programs." 
The . first opponent for Notre Dame will be James Madison and though not a household name in women's basketball, the Dukes could be a tough game for the Irish. "James Madison is the spoiler type who play a physical game and capi­talize on errors," said DiStanislao. 
Oklahoma, Notre Dame's next potential opponent, just defeated Western Kentucky with a tough, 

After yourlastexam, whattoughquestions wlll youstillbefacing? 
W don't have your answers. But we'll listen to your questions, 
share some of our own about who we want to become and where we want to journey. For anyone who has considered the path of priesthood, the Holy Cross Fathers' One-Year Candidate Program provides an opportunity to ask and explore the possibilities in community. 
Contact: 
Vocat1on D1rector Box 541 Notre Dame. IN 46556·0541 
• 

(219) 239·6385 
veteran Sooner squad that features a run-and-gun offense. Oklahoma just missed qualifying for the NCAA tournament last year. Other teams in Notre Dame's division include Dayton, Fairfield, LaSalle, Miami and South_west Texas. 
"We will play three games in four 
days, which is not as taxing as the 
older two-games-in-one-day format 
used in the Regional tournament 
just a few years ago," said DiStanis­
lao. "It is tough, but these are condi­
tioned athletes. 
Injuries to Heidi Bunek, Beth 
Morrison and Willis have cut down 
the depth on the front line, a situa­
tion which has forced pressure on 
the rest of the team. Trena Keys, a 
6-1 senior forward, has been the catalyst for the Irish all season. "She has to be a leader since she gets the most playing time, and has 
the experience and the most tools," Distanislao said. "But she isn't the whole team, she has a very good cast around her." 
The accomplishmants so far ofthe Irish freshmen must not be over­looked. 
"Diondra Toney, (a 5-9 guard), 
has contributed many imponant 
minutes, said Distanislao. "She is a 
multi-faceted player, and she plays 
bigger that she is when getting 
rebounds. She will replace the 
graduating Lynn Ebben, who has 
been our utility player. Lisa Kuhns, 
(a 5-1 0 forward), has good instincts 
and is a fine shooter." 
The team will finish its action during break at Rutgers, who has a long tradition of winning, and is especially tough t.o play at home. The Knights possess depth and a top­n·otch forward in Sue Wicks. 

All the top 40 are on sale for 5. 99 to 6." 
Single album or cassette. Including ZZ Top, Stevie wonder, Cars, James Taylor, Simple Minds, Rush, John Cougar MeUencamp, Starship, Mr. Mister, Eddie Murphy, Kate Bush, Thompson Twins, A-ha, Talking Heads and many more! 
Walk over to Tracks Records!! 
Something for everyone on your gift list-on sale! 

Maxell maxettt:llll@:@
TDK 
XLII 90's pj!_!i
SA90 
6 for 13.50 
6for 13.·50 
w/ student J.D. 

Posters-m~--=s:-to-c--=k:--+-G-u_i_t_a_r_S_m_·_n_g_s---+-------­
Pink Floyd, Dead, Sting, U2, lNXS, Beatles, REM, 
Holiday Hours 
10-10 daily 11-8 Sun 277-8338 

12"-4.59 45's-1.69 
I 

1631 E. Edison Rd. At the comer of Edison & St.Rd. 23 
SMC swimming wins 1st 
ByANDREA LaFRENIERE 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's swim team defeated Nonh Central College, 76­24, last night in the Belles' first home dual meet of the season at the Rockne Memorial Swimming Pool. Head Coach Nancy Jo Kemnitz was pleased with the Belles' performance. 
"This was an excellent meet for us. We had some really good per­formances, and we had some surprises, too," said Kemnitz. 
Among the standouts was freshman Peggy Halloran, who finished first in two events. Halloran won the 1000-meter freestyle with a time of 12:19.7 and the 500-meter freestyle with a time of6:01.4. 
Other first-place winners for the Belles were sophomore Meghan Raffeny, who won both the 100-meter backstroke and the 100­meter freestyle event. Junior Margaret Mannion finished first in the 200-meter freestyle. and the 100-meter breaststroke. Sophomore Heidi Traxler finished third in the latter event. 
Juniors PattyJuckniess and Mary Fisher gave the Belles a one-two finish in the 50-meter freestyle. 
Sara Maurer, a freshman, finished second in the 200-meter in­dividual medley, and senior Anne Cushing took third in the 500­meter freestyle. 
Saint Mary's placed first in two relay events. In the 200-meter medley relay, the team of Mannion, Raffeny, Jennifer Burke and Tanya Reeves had a winning time of 2:07.1. The 200-meter freestyle relay team of Fisher, Juckniess, Maurer, and Raffeny finished first with a time of 1:51. 

1:-.nnm'"" 30-day extended wear ll~:pht3rical contact lenses 
Tint contact lenses lhat not only 
$ 7 9 9 8 

your vision, they m3ke your eyes • and exciting. Available in blue, r•un~uu1se, emerald green and brown. 
Price does not include an eye examination which is required at the time of purchase. Visa-MasterCard-Medicaid-Insurance Programs Welcome Open 6 Days A Week With Evening Hours 
UTH BEND: 1111 E IRELAND RD...291400 MISHAWAKA: 506 W McKINLEY 
-· 
Indiana's Finest Discount Record Store 
Also Offices in Indianapolis, Shelbyville, Kokomo, Lafayette, Anderson, Tfwe Haute,Ricl1mond, Bloomington, New Castle, Franklin, Muncie Marion­

The Observer 
Men 
continuedfrom page 16 
mediately after the Valpo game and 
won't be required to return until the 
night of the 26th, when an evening 
workout will be held. 
Titree more days of practice will 

follow before the Irish play host to 
Creighton on Dec. 30. Notre Dame 
has a debt lO repay in that game. Last 
year the Bluejays upset the visiting 
Irish, 60-<;8. 
"We played very poorly in Omaha 

last year," Phelps recalls, "and I 
would hope our players would 
remember that. We were coming off 
a three-week layoff and it showed. 
The situation is similar this year, so 1 
would hope we would be better 
prepared. We've just got to come 
out and play our game and get back 
In the swing of things after the time 
0.II." 
The Bluejays lost their lOp gun, 

7-0 center Benoit Benjamin, to the 
NBA and are looking to regroup un­
der this year under new coach Toii.y 
Barone. At this point in the season, 
Creighton is 2-2 with five more 
games on its schedule before the 
date with the lri~h. 
The first of four road games is 

next, when Notre Dame travels to 
the Palestra in Philadelphia for a jan. 
4 contest with LaSalle. The game wiU 
be a homecoming for Irish freshman 
guard Mark Stevenson, a native of 
the city ofbrotherly love. 
"LaSalle is always a tough game for 

us," Phdps says. "They lost some 
good players off the team we beat 
here last year. The key for us wiU be 
how well we stop their outside 
shooting." 
The Explorers lost their top two 

scorers of last season, Steve Black 
and Ralph Lewis, to graduation. That 
pair combined for over 38 points a 
game for LaSalle and will be heavily 
missed. 
Titrce days later, the Notre Dame 

travelling party will be in 
Providence, R.I., for a game with the 
friars of Providence College. The 
Irish came out on top by a 70-63 
margin in the last year's meeting at 
thcACC. 
"Providence has got a new coach, 

a good coach, In Rick Pitino," says 
Phdps. "They will play multiple 
defenses, which is going to force us 
to read some things." 
Traditional rival DePaul shows up next on Notre Dame's agenda, with the Irish visiting Chicago's Rosemont Horizon on jan. 11. Despite finishing as the nation's top Independent last season, Notre Dame lost both of its games to the Blue Demons. 
As usuaJ, DePaul will rely on 
speed, rebounding and the transi­
tion game to get the job done and 
should be better adjusted to Head 
Coach joey Meyer now that Meyer is 
in his second year at the helm. 
"We haven't played well in the Horizon yet against DePaul," says Phelps. "This will be an important game for us in terms of getting an NCAA Tournament bid. Rodney Strickland (DePaul's freshman guard) and David Rivers will be the key matchup here." 
The finaJ road stop for Notre Dame will be Provo, Utah, where the Irish play Brigham Young onJan. 13. The Cougars suffered heavy losses to graduation and church missions. BYU's top three scorers in Timo Saarclaincn, Scott Sinek and Andy Toulson all have departed from the squad which dropped a 67-58 deci­sion to the Irish last season at the ACC. 
Notre Dame lost two years ago at the 22,700-scat Marriott Center and will have an equally-tough time this season. 
Of the six games over break, it really is the four road contests which will spell success· or failure for the Irish. 
"These arc four games that we've got to win," Phelps says, "because we've got so many tough games on the road coming up later in the season. We can't go below .500 on the road schcdulc.lfwc play.500 on the road and win all our home games, we'll be in good shape." 

1 ~1\\\~\\~~~?'\l\\f,',·:· 
, \ <c..:'­
~ 
Friday, December 13, 1985 -page 12 
To the one and only Kingpin, Have a Merry Christmas and get well soon 
• The sports st•ff 
c
• 
HAPPY HOLIDAYS 
from ALL OF US AT KINGS CELLAR 
PRICES GOOO THROUGH 17·14-15 

700 N. MAIN  UNIVERSITY CENTER  254 DIIIEWAY NORTH  
ELKHART  MISHAWAKA  ROSElAND  
295-6310  277-7176  272-2522  

1910 LINCOLNWAY UST BfllEVILLE SHOPPING CENTER SOUTH BEND SOUTH BEND 
233-8430 233-8936 
1621 SOUTH BEND AVE SOUTH lEND 
233-4603 
2934 E. McKINLEY SOUTH BEND 
233-9466 
ObecTver ftk photo 

junior swingman Ernie Lewis (23) wtll be counted on to help carry the Providence offensive attack when the Friars host the Irish jan. 7. The game wtth Providencoe wtll be the fourth ofsix games that Notre Dame wtll play during break, including four str·aight road games which wtll be a big test for the 4-1 Irish. A good showing is importantforpost-season aspirations. The Irish return home to theACC to face rival UCLA onjan. 18. 
Lochmandv Leasing & Rental, Inc. 
IINational Car Rental~ 
Weekend and Weekly Specials all year round. Need transportation to get off campus for the weekend? check our low rates. Going on a long trip? We hove weekly specials designed for a student's budget. 
One Way Rentals Available to over 1000 locations ·at low unllmlled mileage rates with roo drop charges. Excellent way to get hom" lor vocation at reasonable prices. 
Conveniently Located at the 
We feature GM cars like this Buick Regal. 

I I I I I I I


52929 u.s.31 rlorth 
1. 

Dollwey ...-...,.. ---­
With this coupon receive a 
Large Pizza for Medium Pizza Price Medium Pizza for Small Pizza Price 
(Delivery Orders Only) 
After 5 pm on Fri.-Sat. Only 
(Limited Delivery Area) 
277-5880 Offer expires Dec. 21 
~----------------------------~ 
The Observer Friday, December 13, 1985 -page 13 
Sports Briefs 
The Notre Datne Hockey Team travels to Syracuse, N.Y., to compete in the Syracuse Invitational Tournament 
D•:c. 27-28 followed by two games at SUNY-Plattsburg, Dec. 30-31.­Tbe Observer 
The Notre Datne fencing teatns take to the 
mad for the holidays, as they begin their season with matches with Harvard and MIT Jan. 6; Temple, Princeton and Cornell jan. 7; and Pennsylvania Jan. 8. The Iris squads will compete in the USFA Col­legiate OpenJan. I 0-12. -The Observer 
Stepan Center will close for the semester on this Sunday and will not resume its schedule until Wednesday, Jan. I 5. For more ir.formation call the Stepan Center.-The Observer. 
HEART OUT 
Happy Birthday Beth 
Love, your friends in 1-B and the Zahm guys 
The Saint Mary's basketball teatn will hope to improve its I-3 record when they travel to Judson College tonight. -The Observer · 
Off-Campus interhall football players who 
have not yet returned their equipment can do so today by tak tng the equipment to the NVA office in the ACC between the hours of8:30­5 p.m. -The Observer 
Any Off-Catnpus student interested in playing on an 'A' league interhall basketball team should contact Kevin Hamer by Jan. 20 at 272-0416.-The Observer 
The ND fencing team needs someone mechani­
cally inclined who wants the opportunity to earn a monogram and be a part of the fencing program. A knowledge of fencing is not necessary. Those interested should call Coach Mike DiCicco at 239­5585.-The Observer 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday 
through Friday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor ofLafortune. Briefs should be submitted on the forms available at the office, and every briefmust include the phone number ofthe person submitting it. -The Observer 
l Yanks, Sox trade pitchers 
Associated Press 

SAN DIEGO -The New York Yankees and Chicago White Sox sdtled for second-best. swapping pitchc:rs when they really wanted to trade hitters, as the official portion ofbaseball's annual winter meetings came to a close yesterday. 
The trade that the two clubs made 

sent left-bander Britt Burns and two 
minor leaguers to the Yankees for 
right-hander Joe Cowley and 
catcher Ron Hassey. 
The trade the Yankees and White 

Sox might yet make would send free­
lagent catcher Carlton Fisk to the Yankees for designated hitter Don Baylor. 
The deal was the 11th at these 

meetings, involving 25 major league 
players. 
Before making the second deal with New York, The White Sox must first sign Fisk, and both players are demanding bonuses for waiving no­trade rights. Agent Jerry Kapstein, who represents each, said Thursday that neither has yet given assurances these rights will be waived. 
Though neither club would con­firm that the Fisk-Baylor deal would be made, White Sox General Manager Ken Harrelson said, "it's Kapstein's party now. 
Saturday Night: 
Final clearance sale!! All drinks are less than $1 . Be there for 
semester's final night! 
For Club Rentals... 
call Bryan Dedrick~ 
*
* 
! * * Annual <!tltristmas 
i *
* 
iSnnk&alt
l 
i * 1Jbtal fnr ~ifts 
*
* 

t 
* *
* 
*#
* Hammes
* Sign-up for 
! Free Gift -*
Bookstore Free Christmas ** 
*
JWrapping * 
2nd Floor Book Dept. Drawing * 
._ 

** 
ALLIED SHIPPING 
Air& UPS 219-277-7616 
We pack and Ship 
HOURS: 1 • 7 Mon • Fri 
lOa.m. -4Sat 
UNIVERSITY COMMONS SR23 

.--------------, 
I FREE! I
I I
1 REGUlAR RAXs 1 1 WITH PURCHASE OF I IREGUlAR FRIES AND I
I 
MEDIUMDRINK I 

IOur faritous Rax roast beef, sliced IIthin, piled high, and served on a 1aesame-seed roll. 
Pleue preoent·-&.fooe onloring. One 
COlJilOil per penon per visil. Nor uolid in combination with any other Rax oller. Olfor good at participating Rax Reslauranlo. V20 c""' caoh redemption value. "'1965 Rax Res<aur.onts, h:.
I i Be:
Offergood
I
1tlaru 12/23/85.
"-------------­
SHE CAN 
EAT! 


The Observer 

Bengals, Skins meet; decide fat.es 
WASHINGTON· The Washington 
Redskins and Cincinnati Bengals will 
be looking to keep their National 
Football League playoff hopes alive 
Sunday · and looking at the 
scoreboard. 

The Redskins, 8-6, are one game 
behind the Dallas Cowboys and New 
York Giants in the National Football 
Conference East, with the co-leaders 
meeting Sunday at Irving, Texas. 

"IfI don't see it first, I know there 
will be 56,000 fans who will be 
watching the scoreboard letting the 
players know what's happening," said Washington Coach joe Gibbs. 
Victories in their final two games, coupled with a Giants' victory over Dallas Sunday, virtually would give the Redskins a wild-card berth in the playoffs. 
Cincinnati Coach Sam Wyche, meanwhile, said he would tell his players to ignore the scoreboard, specifically the game involving American Conference Central co­leader Cleveland and the Houston Oilers. 
ACincinnati victory coupled with 
a Cleveland loss would give the Ben­
gals their first division title since 
1981. 

"What happens with Cleveland doesn't make a difference ifwe don't win," said Wyche. "If we don't beat the Redskins, we're not going anywhere." 
Neither the scoreboard nor their opponents on the field have made much difference of late to the Ben­gals, who have moved into conten­tion with five victories in their last seven games, raising their record to 7-7. 
Their offense in high gear, the 
Bengals are coming off one of the 
most convincing victories in their 
history, having whipped the Cow­
boys S0-24 last Sunday, setting a 
dub rushing record of274 yards and 
rolling up 570 yards in total offense. 

The Bengals, who have gained more than 500 yards two straight weeks, have scored 394 points this season, including at least 3S points In five games. 
"It will take a little trickery, a lot of luck and at least 31 points to beat them," said Redskins assistant coach Richie Petitbon. 
"The Dallas game Is a potential 
CONGRATULATIONS TO ANNE SHOUSHA Our beautiful daughter aa you become an alumnus of NOTRE DAME. We Love You, and are proud of you. 

God lieu, Mom•Dad 

FREE i IBlow Dry I with haircut I 
I
(Iron if needed) 

I
THE HAIRSTYLIST 

I
272-0009 

I I
----------------· 
Hours 

problem," said Wyche. "There is al­ways a chance ofa subconscious let­down after a big win. That's all people In Cincinnati have been talking about for a week." 
Bengals fans have had a lot to talk 
about this season beginning with 
quarterback Boomer Esiason. 
Esiason has thrown for 2,816 yards 
and 23 touchdowns. 

"He is throwing as well as anyone 
we have seen this year," said Gibbs. 
Esiason will have to be on his 
game against a Redskins' secondary 
that has allowed fewer than 166 
yards passing and is ranked No. 2 in 
the league. 

Cris Collinswonh, with 59 catches for 1,016 yards and four TDs, and rookie Eddie Brown, with 46 receptions for 789 yards and 6 TDs, lead the receiving corps. 
The Bengals' running game is powered by james Brooks ( 865 yards, 7 TDs) and Larry Kinnebrew ( 662 yards, 9 TDs ). 
The Redskins will counter with 
the league's second-best rushing 
game and the league's top 1·2 
receiving punch. 
An Monk (74 catches) and Gary 
Clark ( 62) have combined for more 
receptions than any pair of wide 
receivers in the league. 
On the ground, the Redskins have averaged better than 155 yards per game. George Rogers, who has replaced john Riggins in the team's single-back attack, rushed 36 times for 150 yards in last week's 17-12 victory ov1er Philadelphia. 
At quarterback, the Redskins feature Jay Schroeder. Since replac­ing injured Joe Thelsmann, Schroeder has led the Redskins to victories in three offour games. 
Schroeder suffered a cracked rib last Sunday, and as insurance the Redskins signed \'eteran Steve Bankowski, who was released by At­lanta. 
Scubadivers••• Christmas Sale & Film Festival 
at The Mermaid's Quest 8am-8pm 


Valentine's Day Caribbean Trip 

305 E. McKinley, U.S. 20 E. Mishawaka, IN 46545 (219)256-6875 

Lochmandy Leasing & Rental, Inc:. 
IINational Car RentaJ~ 
Weekend and Weekly Speclola all year round. Need lronaportoHon to get oil campus lor the weekend? cheek our low rates. Going on a long trip? We have weekly specials designed lor a student"s 
budget. 

One Way Rentals Available to over 1000 loootlons-allow unlimited mileage rates with no drop charges. Excellent way to get home for vocation at reasonable prices. 
Conveniently located at the 
We feature GM cars like this Buick Regal. 


NOW OPEN! 
The Hairstiiists 
University Center-6so2 Grape Rd (near ~ct ~ ~~~ .\Ic:n.:h..wJi.:.c -next to Macri's Deli) 
PHONE 272-0009 NO APPOINTMENT NECESSARY 
Precision Haircut Shampoo and uauw Dry .••••. ~8.50 
·I 
Friday, December 13, 1985-page 14 
Tbe past andpresent Notre Damefootball coaches sbare a laugb. after speaking to tbe Notre Dame Club ofJndianapolts Tuesday nigbt. 

SPRING BREAK! 
Europ-a Toan 
GERMANY-lOdaye Vt.it 
Nare•blll'& Rotll_.,_.., Jlaalela, 
SaUzbarg,Lacerae,Zadcla lncludes:Air · Hotel Accomodatlons -Breakfast & Dinner Dally. Fully Escorted. 
Departure Dates 
$999.00 

March 21 March 28 per person Apri14 DBL. Occupancy 
SPAIN -8 days 
Visit SEVILLA, TANGIERS, GRANADA, TOLEDO 
Includes: Air -Hotel • Daily Breakfast -Sightseeing-
Departures 
$999.00 

March 23 per person
March 30 DBL. Ocupancy
April6 
FRANCE -10 days Vt.lt 
Parle, Reaaa, Nonaaady, Chat-• Coaaay, St. Jlalo, Orl-aa lncludes:Air -Hotel Accomodations 
• Breakfast & Dinner Daily. Fully Escorted. 
Departure Dates 
$1039.00 

March 21 per person
March 28 April4 
DBL. Occupancy 

'Many otherSpring Break vacation• avaUable CALL TODAY! 
's 


U4-­
--51t-1616(1Mfoo-l
--.U--(N·-·1 

Mon.-Fri. 8 a.m.-8:30p.m. Saturday 8a.m.-7:30 p.m. Sunday 10 a.m.-4 p.m. 
GAL' H . t h . 1 $
s aucu s ampoo me uaeo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 
with you in mind 
GUY's Haircut shampoo included .............. $6 
~--------------------personally designed for you 
GUYS AND GALS PERMS ARE OUR SPECIALTY. 
Prices range from $17.50 to $40 Ali perms included haircut and blow dry styling Highlighting Clairol Tints Retouch Bleach Retouch $15.50 $12.50 $19.50 
~~------------~ 

1:0daY---------------------F·r-id•a•y•'•D•e•c•e•m•b•e•r•1•3•,•1•9•8•5-•p•a•g•e•l-5 

BlooJlll County 
MfRT fXJ W€ HfCK IF 
CIIU WHITT T KNOW. 
/l.€tL 
..KIST ltllPP6N€Cl 1 

WHAT 1 
I 
UNLES~ CT caJRSe THArnMeCCNFUcr5, 

WITH AN:1TH£RCOUR$£5 THE Sc.Hcrx>LE 
WELL,~~ 
t:AAM. IF THAT IS TIE

You 1-14/e ro ~ 
FOR EXAMS. 
CASe, '7tX> 1AAE THE

YOUR EMM TVCSM'I
THeE£ AAE: ~E" 

EXAM (:F THE" TEt'<CHER PRS"TTY OCil> 
AT B.AM IF 'rWR 
WITH Tf.E MClST" Gfl£.'1' Il'tST'RUCT70N5 
CLASs IS AT t:IS 
HAIRS, THAT IS UNlESS

DN W~VS AND 
~o~e DR suets-ew.:o.
THIS VIEJ>.A.. 

~1(5••• 
The Daily Crossword 
~.CROSS 
1 S;chool type: abbr. 5 Fluss. rustle 
retreat 10 Superfine 14 Corsocash 15 Prof's posers 16 Moved easily 17 Primo 20 Mental ratings 21 !)Iamond group 22 l'wist 23 rhe start of 
it all? 24 Cookie 25 Composer Kern 28 Invent 
29 l~eighbor 
•lf Ala. 32 True up 33 :Shakes up 34 Dingle 35 Where the white 
lineis 38 Fruit drinks 39 Contends 40 Futile 41 Gaelic sea god 42 Fowl 43 "We hold these 
-tobe..." 44 Exited 45 Picot unit 46 Scottish royal 
family 49 Anima 50 Asphyxiate 53 Ending words 56 Culmination 57"-and an 
understanding 
heart" 58 Singer Pinza 59 Malehog 60 Moved easily 61 Grate 
DOWN 1 Et­2 Five In France 3 College 
curricula 4 Morse symbol 5 Give meaning 6 Giving the 
sack 
j.,.,.+-f--+-­

©1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
12/13/85

Thursday's Solution 
7 Part of TLC  
8 Seagoing ONTOIGRAY 0 A T E R  
initials R E E F l E S E F R AM E  
9 Amaze C A l F 0 C H S F E T E S  
10 "There's many S T A I R W~ Y D E C E N T -c 
-'twixt..." H I P C A N A R D S  
11 Norwegian king F U S I 0 N. AN D~  
12 Appealing  UN T A N G l I N G 0 D 0 R  
13 Ger. river  S T A l E.O N o•A N 0 D E  
18 Tooth surface  S 0 N S NIE T I Z E D  
19 Blueprint  M A .g.S I DE H 0 E R S •s 
23 Securities  
24 Alphabetizes  S E N A T E S E T ON- 
25-ud·Din  0 N EM A N ·~~~SERS 
(Muslim  D 0 WE R P A G E E X I T  
leader)  A l E N E AIT 0 M T A P E  
26 Omit a  S A l T S LIETS SMEMI  
syllable  
27 Horseman  12/13/85  
28 Bistros  42 Plant  49 Sample  
29 Showscom  43 Described  50 "Eyeless in -"  
30 Restraint  flatteringly  51 Sale caveat  
31 Mountain range 44 Sprinkle  52 Discontinue  
33 Kneee.g.  45 At large  54 Pair  
34 Aggregation  46 Large piece  55 Ending with  
36 Final  47 Cantina snack rocket or  
37 Sign up  48 The Cadets  racket  

Berke Breathed The Far Side 
IT SA"''S t£RE'M' rn:a:>TTOH ••• 
"I:!IROUBHT ro 'rW EN THE'~ 
FE'OA..£ WHO WROTe 'nfE' 'vi-::Z. 
FORM." 


Campus 
FRIDAY, DEC.13 

•9:30 
A.M. • 4:30 P.M. -Sllle, Annual Unicc:f Card Sale:, Ubrary Concourse:, Sponsored by Ladies ofNotre Dame: and Saint Mary's 

•7:00 
P.M. -Madrlpl Dinner, Regina Hall North, Reservations only -S12.00, Seating 


• begins at 6:30p.m. 
•7:30 
P.M. -10:00 P.M. • Christmas Dance, Logan Cc:ntc:r, Sponsored by Council for the: Rc:wdc:d 

•8:00 
P.M. AND 10:00 P.M. -Glee Club Christmas Concerts, Washington Hall, Sponsored by Notre: Dame: Glee: Club, Free, but ticket required 

•8:10 
P.M.. Theater Production, "Hay Fever", O'Laughlin Auditorium, Sponsored by Notre: Dame/Saint Mary's Theater Depart· ment, S6.00, S5.00 :md S4.00 for students 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 

Roast Turkey Hreast Ham and Broccoli Rollup Eggplant Parmesan Clam Strip Rolls 
TV Tonight 
6:00P.M. 6:30P.M. 7:00P.M. 7:30P.M. 8:00P.M. 
8:30P.M. 9:00P.M. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
t!IB& BENGAL BDUTS 

Practic• startsas saan asw•IJ•tback! 
~~~~~~~~~~~..-..-.~ ....~ 
16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBS Evening News 16 MASH 22 lbree's Company 16 Smurfs · "The Magic Flute" 22 WKRP In Cincinnati 22 The Twilight Zone 28 The Great Heep 34 Washington Week In ReView 34 Wall Street Week 46 Father Michael Manning 16 Misfits ofScience 22 Dallas 28 Difl'rent Strokes 
34 Great Performances: "Falstall" 46 LeseaAllve 
SATURDAY, DEC. 14 
•8:10 P.M. -Theater Production, "Hay Fever", O'Lauglin Auditorium, Sponsored by Notre: Dame/Saint Mary's Theater Depart· mc:nt, S6.00, S5.00 and S4.00 for students 
SUNDAY, DEC. 15 
•2:00 
P.M.. Basketball, Notre Dame: vs. Nor­thern Illinois, ACC Arena 

•4:00 
P.M. . Hollday Mass, Reverend Theodore Hesburgh, Sacred Heart Church, Sponsored by Notre Dame Club of Saint Joseph Valley 


Saint Mary's Steak Sandwich Fc:ttucine Carbonara Cheese and Mushroom Omelet Oven Browned Fish 
9:30P.M. 
10:00 P.M. 
ll:OOP.M. 
11:30P.M. 
12:00A.M. 12:30A.M. 1:10A.M. 2:00A.M. 
28 Benson 16 Miami VIce 22 Falcon Crest 28 Our Family Honor 46 Jimmy Swaggart Weekly 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 WSJV Newswatch 28 46 Praise the Lord 16 Tonight Show 22 CBS Late MoVie: "Treasure of 
the Amazon" 28 ABC News Nlghtline 34 Star Trek 28 Glitter 16 Friday Videos 28 Africa Report: Tears of Famine 46 Independent Network News 

Friday, December 13, 1985 -page 16
S~orts 
,l"l•·..t4~1..­
.-•r'!!>·---11·111• 11n•·--------------------------­
Men's and women's basketball fac·e b 
Men have tough road trip ahead 
ByJEFF BLUMB 
Sports Editor 

Notre: Dame: basketball coach Digger Phc:lps has 
called a timeout. 1be 4-1 Irish now will cease: practicing 
for sc:vc:ral days to take: their final exams along with the 
rest of the: student body. lbere are no practices today 
through Sunday to prepare for finals, and attendance at 
next week's workouts, save Friday's, will be optional. 
Following the: conclusion of final exams, the 17th­
ranked Irish will face six games over the: sc:mestc:r 
brc:ak, including four tough road contests. Success in 
these: six games could play a big part In how Notre 
Dame: fares the: rest ofthe: sc:ason. 

But first all players must contend with their final ex­
ams, a key Ingredient for staying eligible: to play during 
the: sc:cond sc:mc:stc:r. wt year the Irish managed to 
come through first sc:mester with everyone eligible, but 
recent years prior to that hadn't been quite: as kind. 
"I always sweat the final exam period," says Phelps. "We just have to be patient with our players in terms of practicing. though, because of the: commitment to academics we have at Notre Dame." 
From all indications, it doesn't appear that any players are in sc:rious academic trouble at the presc:nt time. 
ValparaJso wiU visit the ACC on Dec. 21, the day after finals are over. Not many people are giving the Crusaders a chance to win this game as Notre Dame has won the last 26 contests between the two teams. 
"We're: going to be coming off final exams, so it's going to be difficult for us to be sharp," says Phelps. • "Valpo had a tremdously young team a year ago, and I'm sure that's going to begin to pay off this year for them. Thc:y'U have a whole: week to prepare for us, and our preparation time will be very limited." 
The players are free to go home for Christmas im­
see MEN, page 12 


' 
. 

holiday schedules Women to meet Marquette today 
By MIKE SZYMANSKI 
Sports Writer 
While most Notre Dame students study for finals and then relax over break, the Notre Dame women's basket· 
· ball team will be facing tough rivals and a prestigious tournament over the next month and it is aiming to es­tablish a higher national ranking. 
The Irish travel to Marquette today, where they will have to pressure: the Warriors' fine perimeter shooting game, according to head coach Mary DiStanislao. 
"With finals ahead, the players have to keep a balance between academics and basketball," DiStanislao. "We try to indulge their requests and make adjustments. We will be travelling without Lavetta Willis and Denise: Bas­ford, who will stay back to study." 
· The team returns to the ACC Sunday to take on a 
;~~····· ~~~;:,~~dN~:: :::~:·:.::.: and outside," said DiStanislao. "We will have to block out well under the boards, cut offtheir penetration, and 
• usc: our offense: to force them to play defense:." -~ Right after finals, the team has little chance to catch 
their breath as they face rival UCLA, a team that soundly , 
beat the Irish last year after Christmas break, 78-51. "UCLA is not as strong on the front line as previous ~ years, but they will have: experience and solid outside shooting," said DiStanislao. Next, Notre Dame will go to Florida for the Miami Tournament to play in a two-part affair. 
"The Super Eight tourney will Include top 1 0 teams, while our tournament will have teams who want to be in the top 10. It will be very intense," predicted DiS­tanislao. 
--~tiQnat.k.fL__ ______________________ .... _ ------. 
Irish wrestling team takes two, beats Valpo and Drake 
The OIJoencr/OrewSondlcr 
Senior captain Trena Keys defends Tennessee's Sherry Bostic In a "There is no question that with this talent, we could game earlier this week. Mike Szymanski previews the upcoming be in the top 20," continued DiStanislao. "We have to women's games in his story at right whilejeffBlumb previews the 
see WOMEN, page 11 
By RICK RIETBROCK 
Sports Writer 
The Notre: Dame wrestling team took another step toward reassuring Its status as a quality squad Wednes­day at the: Valparaiso Tournament where they scored a ~8-0 triumph over Valparaiso and. more impor­tantly in Head Coach Fran McCann's view, a first-ever victory over a solid Drake team, 27-14. 
"Valparaiso will most likely be dropped next year in order to upgrade our schedule," McCann ex· plained. "The victory over Drake, however, is a stepping-stone for the future. They are a good team, the type of team that we have to beat consistently in order to ·begin to defeat the great teams." 

In the Drake contest, the Irish received key pins from 134-pound Jerry Durso, 150-pound Greg Goad and heavyweight Mark Antonetti to carry them to victory. 
"The three pins by Durso, Goad, and Antonetti were areal factor in winning the match," said McCann. "Those points are hard for the other team to make up." 
Other victories against Drake were scored by Dave Carlin at 126 pounds, Pat Boyd at 14 2 pounds and· Chris Geneser at 167 pounds. 

In the Valparaiso rout, the Irish had six pins, including five by fresh­men. The pins were recorded by senior Eric Crown at 118 pounds, Matt Primich at 177 pounds, Carlin, Durso, Goad and Antonetti. 
Other victories were recorded by sophomores Ron Wisniewski and Dan Corrigan and freshmen Spero Karas and Geneser. 
The Irish will take a break for finals before trying to continue their impressive performance so far this year. They will travel to Evanstone. Ill., to compete in the 4o-team Mid­lands Tournament. 
"Aside from the NCAA tourna­ment, the Midlands is probably the most prestigious tournament," McCann said. "All the top schools wiU be there because it is a special­invite-only tournament." 
McCann hopes the tough com· petition will help his wrestlers in the longrun. 
"I'm approaching this tournament just like the Las Vegas Invitational (in which the Irish placed 13th out of 44 teams)," noted McCann." The Midlands will provide the best of both worlds as far as competition is concerned." 
"There wiU be a few Olympians at the meet, as well as the best post­graduate wrestlers in the country." 
This may seem like a tall order for a young team, but McCann said he feels it will be beneficial to the team. 
"I just want to give our young kids exposure against the best competi­tion, which will prepare them for tough matches in the future, and will simply improve their overall perfor­mance." 
The time has come to tie up a few loose ends 
These days it seems that everyone is trying to get ready for final exams by tying up any loose ends they might have. Not to be left out, there are a lot of sports-related things everyone should be aware of before they head home for Christmas. 
Be that as it may, today is the day to tie up a lot ofloose ends in the Observer sports department. 
The University of Virginia recently was given the Col­lege Football Association's award for best graduation rate of football players. Notre Dame and Penn State both received honorable mention by the CFA for their gradua­tion rates. 
Since the award's inception in 1981, Notre Dame has won It twice, In 1982 and '83, and was a co-winner with Duke last year. Duke also won the award its first year. 
1be award is given basc:d on each school's graduation rate: ofits football players over a five-year period. Computa­tion of the rate: Includes players who transfer or drop out for whatever reason. 
Notre Dame was judged this year on Gerry Faust's first­ever crop ofrecruits, those: which arrived in South Bend in the: fall of 1981. 
• 

Irish tailback Allen Pinkett finished eighth in the balloting for this year's Heisman Trophy behind such presc:ason favorites as Do Jackson ofAuburn and Chuck Long oflowa, as well as a non-entity in September, Lorenzo White ofMic­higan State:. 
Pinkett also failed to receive recognition as either a first­or sc:cond-tc:am AU-American. 

Jeff Blumb 
Sports Editor 
Unfortunately, Pinkett's accomplishments in the past 
season were often lost in the controversy surrounding 
Gerry Faust. The holder of more Notre Dame career 
records than one can keep track of, Pinkett wasn't helped 
by the 5-6 record ofthe Irish, either. 
A total team player and a classy individual as well, the well-spoken senior deserved much more in the way ofac­colades. In fact, he probably was the most well-rounded Heisman candidate in the country this year. 
Pinkett was the model of grace even in the toughest of times during the sc:ason. The losses hurt him probably worse: than any other player on the team because of his undying dedication to the success of the team. 
I ':an honestly say that I have never encountered a finer individual than Allen Pinkett in alll my dealings with Notre Dame athletes and coaches. I feel fortunate to have had the chance to work with him. 
Best ofluck next year in the NFL. 
• 

l11e decision of Lou Holtz to return Joe Yonto to an active coaching role cannot be praised enough. Yonto is one of the best defensive line co:lches in the country and, 
perhaps more importantly, is an excellent teacher of col­
lege football players. 
Gerry Faust made a big mistake five years ago in choos­
ing not to utilize Yonto's talents. You don't just throw away 
1 7 years of experience under Ara Parseghian and Dan 
Devine, no siree. 
Yonto has a good rapport with the players, and despite his age, 60, should be highly beneficial to the 1986 team. It's really good to see some of the old guard back In the fold again. 
• 

The Irish basketball team will be facing perhaps its most important test ofthe season next week with final exams. It is imperative that everyone stay eligible if the team hopes to reach all ofits goals the rest ofthe sc:ason. 
After Christmas, the Irish start a big four-game road trip which should give a better indication ofjust how good this team is. The 82-67loss to Indiana earlier this month was a sore spot, indeed, and showed ·that the Irish have a long way to before the NCAA Tournament in March. 
• 

A recently published book, Hooping It Up, details the complete history of Notre Dame basketball. It features over 400 pages of facts on Irish basketball and includes information on the evolution of the Notre Dame women's 
program. Written by former Observer staffer and 1983 University graduate Tim Neely, it is on sale: at the bookstore. 







