---~----~ ---~--­
Egypt -page 5 


Nothing stood in the way ofyesterday's tornado damage to tbeir Council Oak Drit'e home (above). path as et'idenced by the remains of these build­Theirbome andotberson the samestreet weatbered ings. Marjo Sindy and her son, Mikki, suroey the some ofthe destruction (story' below). 

Tornado twists ruinous path while taking area by surprise 
By BOB MUSSELMAN power shorts in others. By 8:10p.m., dark, and then it hit, Mullen 
SARAH HAMILTON power was returned to all homes described. 'Ille only damage done to 
SCOTT BEARBY and businesses in the area. her mother's house wa-; debris scat­News Department Marjo Sindy, of 2902 Council Oak, tered in the backyard. watched from a front room as the Although no damage wa<; 
Sixteen houses and four tornado approached her house from reported at either Notre Dame or businesses were damaged by a tor­the northwest. She said she grabbed Saint Mary's, some students did see nado that touched down on South her c:ildlt-month old dau~hter Mildd the funnel cloud from a distance. Bend's northwest side yesterday af. and immediately fled to the base­Two Notre Dame freshmen, Tim ternoon. ment. Irvine and Bill Clune, were among a 
There were no injuries, said Don "I saw it. It was next door to me," group of people playing socc~r be· Germann, St. Joseph County civil Sindy said, describing the tornado as hind Stepan Center when they defense director. a large swirling funnel that made noticed the tornado. 
The: tornado was sighted near the loud "whooshing" noises. Clune said people on the field Michiana Regional Airport at 4:20 "I saw leaves and branches were pointing and staring at what 
p.m.. Germann said. At ·l:2-i p.m.. a moving, like in a washing machine," first "looked like a column of tornado ·warning was issued and she said. smoke." lie then noticed it was civil ddcnst· sirens were activated, In her basement, Sindy heard a twisting. he said. tremendous crash and felt a strong -Both Clune and Irvine safd they 
The tornado touched down nor­vaccuum. Emerging from the base­didn't think the tornado would be theist of the airport in the Highland ment, she found that the home's too serious because the sky was not Addition. Germann said. The tor­garage had collapsed and that part of very dark. The group continued nado remained on the ground for ap­the home's roofhad been torn away. playing soccer until Security a-;ked proximately a mile and a half, he Astopped clock indicated that the them to leave sometime later. said. twister struck at 4:23p.m. Sindy said An unidentified Saint Mary's stu· 
'Ille tornado then went back into a she had no warning that a tornado dent informed campus security ofan cloud and moved out of the county was on the way. approaching funnel cloud at ap­without causing further damage, he "There was just silence -the proximately 4:30p.m. Shortly there~ said. silence was deafening," she said. after Civil Defense sounded the 
The most damage occurred on A dog, Bcnji, also rode out the severe weather siren, according to Coun<:il Oak Drive. Edmond storm, while her 3 year-old son, Saint Mary's Director of Hagenit-rs. of 2H 16 Council Oak, lost Robbie, wa~ outside playing and Safety/Security Richard Clebck. the roof of his home to the tornado. took cover at a nearby house, she After the Civil Defense warning, Ron Tesscly. lfageniers' cousin said said. Her husband, Bob Sindy, was at Saint Mary's Security alerted officials the twister h;~d ripped through five work at the time. in all buildings to send the oc­rooms in the house. No damage es­Susan Mullen, a Notre Dame cupants to shelter, he said. Students timate was available at the time. senior, was visiting her mother who were permitted to leave the shelters 
Approximately .3,000 people lives at 263S Summit Ridge, within a approximately one half hour later. were without electric power for few blocks ofOak Council, when the At Notre Dame, rectors made four hours as a result of the tornado. tornado hit. "We're always getting their own decisions in response to A representative of the Indiana and tornado warnings and we never pay the warning. Unlike Saint Mary's Michigan Electric Company attention to them," she said. Security, Notre Dame Security docs reported that debris from buildings Mullen was sitting on the house's not contact each building in-blew onto the power wires pulling porch when "I heard what sounded 
see TORNADO, page 4 

some of them down and causing like a train," she said. Suddenly It got VOL XX, NO. 12 
'Messiah of L.S.D.' to speak on high tech 
By FRANKJ. MASTRO Beside: the usual textbooks, one of .\tajfNeporll•r the optional tc:xts· was the drug, I..S.D. 
Tht· man Rit·han.l ~ixon once lie: claimed that under L.S.D., one t·alkd "tht· mo~t Llangt·rous man becomes aware of numerous levels ali\'e" i~ coming to :-.iotrc Dame. ofnmsciousness within oneself. 
Tinullh) Leary, the sdf­prodaimnl ":\kssiah of I..S.D." and 
In 19<>6, he compared L.S.D. to a guru of tht· "psydll·Lidic utopians" 
microscope. lie asserted that L.S.D. will ~pt·ak on "liigh Technology: 
is to psychology what a microscope l'lll' 19Cl0~ through tht· ll)HOs," is to biology. 'lllllr~d;ll night at \X'a!'>hington llall. 
"Computers are now a inore ac­Lc:ary. making hi~ nr~l visit to 
n·ptahk way of getting high," com­:'llotn· l>arnt· ~inn· 1'.>7H. is 
mt·nted Leary. 'chnlulnlto ht·gin hi~ knurc at H. 
:\like \'ore. Chairman of the lucas

Till' c, t H·ar-old Ll'ary gainc:d na­and bsut·~ Committee. said the
tional rt-cognilion during his brief lccturt· "is a way li>r ( Lc:ary) to talk
~tint a~ a kcturc:r at llarvard from ahout all the things he's bc:cn
ll)';'J-(}5. through."
Ont· st·meMer he taught a course for )(raduatt· students callc:d, 
see LEAR\', pal-(e 4

"Crt·~tinj.( Your Own Reality." 
Bridget's temporarily dry 
By MARY HEllMANN Monday, Septt·mht·r 16, accorc.J­Asstsltlnt .'llt•u·s 1-'t//tur ing to Uowt·r. Sunday~ arc· not tlgured into 
Bridgt·t .\ld .uirc\ Filling Sta· tht· llhlay punishmt·nt beGllll tion dic.J not pump hn·r last Indiana statt" law prohibits the wt·ekt·nc.J. atToruing to Bridgt·t's sale ofalcohol on those days. general m;ulagt·r lkrnard Bower. 
Bridget's wa!-. citt•d li1r statt· h· ~or will tht· area har pump quor law violations ;~fter an un­ht•t•r this WtTknul. ht· said. c.krage drinking in<:icknt 
Bri)(t'l \ wa~ dost·d tem­ot·currt·d at the har during An pc>rarily fi>r 1 iofation of tht· In­Tostal 'H';, lw ~aid. diana ~tate liquor l;tw'. ht· said. Bridget's joins two other area 
The manuaton I 0-uil\' dosurt· bars, ~kkk's and Corhy Tavern, ht·gan ht.'l \\'t·tltwsLiay t~ight and which remain dosed as a result of will t:ontimte until midnight on similar violations. 
The Observer Tuesday, September 10, 1985-page 2 


In Brief 
Kevin Hurley, the Howard Hall freshman injured in a hit-and-run accident Saturday morning, remained in critical condi­tion in the intensive care unit last night at Memorial Hospital of South Bend, a hospital administrator said. -The Obseroer 
Philip Quinn, philosophy professor at 
Brown University, has been appointed to the John A. O'Brien Chair ofPhilosophy by Timothy O'Meara, University provost. The O'Brien chair memorializes the priest who spent 40 years teaching and writing at Notre Dame before his death in 1940. -The Obseroer 
A new publications editorhas joined the stallat Saint Mary's. Carol Schaal, a former freelance writer and reporter for the South Bend Tribune, will be responsible for Courier, the alumnae ·magazine, and the newsletter, Saint Mary's Reports. Schaal is a graduate of Indiana University and also has been an assistant features editor at the Fort Wayne Journal-Gazette. She currently is president of Women in Communications, Inc. -The Obseroer 

Of Interest 
The ND/SMC Club ltalia will be having an or­ganizational meeting tonight at 7:15 in the LaFortune Little Theatre. All students and faculty interested in joining are invited to attend. ­
The ObsenJer 
Human rights violations in El Salvador will be the topic of a film titled, "And That is Why the State is to Blame," beingshown at 7 tonight at the South Bend Public Library. The film is being sponsored by the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom's Central America Committee.-The Obseroer 
Academy Awards envelope presenter Frank Johnson of Price Waterhouse will give a lecture tonight at 7:30 on his ex­periences as a partner in the firm which audits the voting of the film industry's annual awards show. The lecture is open to all and will be in Room 122 ofHayes Healy. It is being sponsored by Beta Alpha Psi. · The Obseroer 
The Progressive Music Club will be having its 
first meeting of the year tonight at 6:30 in the LaFortune Little Theatre. All former and new members are encouraged to attend. Members are asked to bring $5 for dues and 55 for t-shirts. -The Obseroer 
Father Avery Dulles, professor of theology at Cat­holic University ofAmerica and visitingJohn A. O'Brien professor of theology at Notre Dame, will give a lecture titled, "Catholicity and Catho~icism" tonight at 8 in the auditorium of the Center for Con­tinuing Education. The lecture is sponsored by the University's department of theology. -The Obseroer 
A managementclub organizational meeting wm be held tonight at 7 in room 122 ofHayes-Healy. All interested business majors are welcome to attend. -The Obseroer 

All students with a nose for news are en­couraged to attend upcoming informational meetings for perspective Observer news reporters. A meeting will be held tonight at 8 in the LaFortune Little Theatre for Notre Dame students, and one will be held tomorrow night in room 304 of the Haggar College Center for Saint Mary's students at 7:30. -The Obseroer 
The Around the Corner Club is sponsoring a 
trip to Chicago Saturday. The bus will leave the Library Circle at 8 
a.m. and the cost will be 55. Interested students can sign up in the Student Activities office until Friday. -The Obseroer 


Weather 

N0 tornadoes are in the forecast today, but keep in mind they weren't in yester­day's either. Mostly cloudy skies and cooler temperatures are expected today. High in the mid 70S. Partly cloudy skies also are expected tonight with a low of 50 to 55. For tomorrow, par:tly sunny skies and cool temperatures are 
forecast with a high of 70 to 75. -AP 
Design Editor..............................Tom Small Design Assistant.............. Tracy Schindele 

The ObserYer-

Layout Staff............................. Christy Wolf Typesetters ...................... Suzanne Hammer 
· Mary Ellen Harrington News Editor .............................Scott Bearby Copy Editor ....................... Mark Pankowski 

1bc Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is 
Sports Copy Editor ...... Eric Scheuermann 

published Monday through Friday and 
Viewpoint Copy Editor......... Mirriam Hill 

on home football Saturdays, ·except 
Viewpoint Layout ................. Carol Brown 

during exam and vacation periods. 1be 
Accent Copy Editor ..................Tim Adams 

OIMerver i5 published by the studentsof 
Accent Layout ................ Mark McLaughlin 

the University of Notre Dame and Saint 
ND Day Editor ......................... Doug Hasler 

Mary's College. Subscriptions may he 
SMC Day Editor .................... Priscilla Karle 

purchased for 130 per year ( S20 per se­
Ad Design ................... Mary Carol Creadon 

mester) by writing 1be OIMerver, P.O. 
Sharon Emmite 
Box Q, Noue Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Typists ........................................ Colleen Foy 
1bc Observer Is a member of 1b~ 
Maura McKeever 
Aalioct.ted Preaa. All reproduction 
Weekly Quotes ....................... Tom Darrow 
rights are reserved. 
Photographers .................. Hector and Paul 



Unusual sculptures in South Bend show the basic principles of nature 
Think back to your high school physics class when you learned about all the properties of maure. Did you ever think these elements someday could create a piece 
Margie
of art? Most people don't. Kersten George Rickey, a South Bend native has combined 
several elements of nature into many unusual Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 

sculptures. He calls these elements his "new box of . ---------------------­
colors," and they include gravity, momentum, inertia, acceleration, moments ofrotation and the laws govern-sculptures but you will also see triangles, trapezoids, ing movement. plain straight lines and Circles. 
His sculptures represent a very personal interpreta-The components of the sculptures are rately solo; tion of nature and its physical qualities. Rickey cites how humans value relationships, and 
Critics may comment that the sculptures writes. "It's when there are two that it begins to come surrounding Saint Mary's, the Snite Museum of Art, In-alive." diana University at South Bend, and the Art Center of It takes a unique yet bizarre and eccentric person to South Bend are distracting and look like pieces of metal compare a human relationship "with the metal on cement blocks. Rickey counters that he wants his art sculptures. to be "itself, performing in a world of its own." The sculptures are alive and visible and they will 
His kinetic images do not catch your eye as you walk represent a certain entity. d _,....., _ __ by. Their simplicity radiates but instead are "images in /// \ ~ through the different de­
.. -l\ 
my language," Rickey \ ~ ', ments of nature. writes. :;.-_ • Rickey's work is on dis-
Yes, they definitely are ~ ~ r play in South Bend until Oct. images in his own language. ~ , ~ ,..rr .20. .\!any people may be but for some people, his ian-,I glad when they are gone,
r 
guage may be foreign. f especially those at Saint 
Yet, anyone delving into~-"-' Mfal'}h''s because the antiqui~y the philosophy behind ~ o t e campus once agam Rickey's work will see his ~ \\ will b~ in its traditional 
motivation and its form. simplicity. ~., You may not understand 
Examining the sculptures, · "') them and you may not care. watching the way they move VJ,..... The sculptures will not with the wind and compar-make their home ~here ing their shape to other _ forever but while they are natural forces such as trees, \ _ _• \ \, here you may want to look clouds and grass, yu can N->--"""-.),..)A--~... ~_... closely and realize the create an appealing scene. lf-ID f-'lAit: Wlilt1Ho~o:r philosophy behind the many 

But the majority ofpeople will fail to realize how fun-different pieces. damental Rickey's structures are and consequently will Rickey sees the importanu: of nature and how it fail to enter into the dimension of art Rickey has coincides with his sculptures. llis language is his own ·created. and his sculptures create a new dimension that might 
His sculptures are centered around the basic mec-be worth discovering. ' 
hanical situations of the pivot. the lever. the fulcrum. Get In v Ive d !
the wheel and the seesaw. Instead of using clay and paint for his art work, he incorporates gravity and fric­
0
tion. 

Yet, Rickey writes, of all the diverse mechanical The Observer has devices he has contrived. the use of the pendulum, "whose movements through time and space are a com­positions open for promise of force and freedom," creates a constant evening layout dimension in all ofhis art 
His sculptures exemplify the physics in art. The work. Two hours a meaning lies in the eyes of the beholder. You can inter· 
week. No 
pret whether the many shapes he uses coincide with nature or not. experience is Rectangles and squares frequently appear in Rickey's 
necessary. 
Thanks toyou... it works... forALLOFUS 
• 
~ Tuesday 25' Drafts All Night Jt-~ See Live Professional (, ~Wednesday ~~ Comedians 10-12 "q~ ....-Dancing after 12 
~ Thursday 75' Shots of Mellon Balls All Night 
~ Friday & Saturday 75' Shots of Root Beer All Night
Unitedway 
**********************************~ 




r-------------------------,
1 Coupon Coupon I 
I FAN SALE I I 30%· 60%0ff Fans I
I (while Quantities last) I 120'' 3-Speed Reg 24.99 -Now 17.99 1 120'' 3-SReed Reg 34.99 -Now 24.991 1 Deluxe 1 110'' 2-Speed Reg 39.99-Now 15.991 
I JCPenney I 
University Park Mall 
I
I Coupon Coupon
Mishawaka • 


~-------------------------~ 

The Observer Tuesday, September 10, 1985 -page 3 
Senate debates vote 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI 
Sentor StaffReporter 
The Student Senate debated last night whether or not its members have the right to reall­ocate funds to the Student Ac· tivities Board. 
The debate was prompted by a budget committee's decision to nullify last week's senate vote to allm:atl' S I 00 of thl· Student Ac­tivities Board'~ monl')' to help pay for last weekt:nd's volleyball tournament bend1tting the Logan Center. 
Thl· budget eommittee tiJr the Student Activitie~ Board had decided during the week that the event w;~s a l"harity instead of a sociall'\'cnl. and a<.'l'ording 10 the sllldt·nt gm·ernment11seal policy, not eligible for the money. 
"It wa.'> a charity and not a so· cial event." ~aid Kl·vin Howard, Uall Presidl·nts' Council chair· man. "Thl· thea! policy of the Stu· dent Al'tivitie~ Board b not to give money 10 charities," he said. 
"Wt• have a right to dt·cidt· what student tumb an· t(,r .. said Junior ua~s l'rt•sidt·nt Jim Domagabk1 
"I don't think tht· stt·t·ring commillt'l' has tht· right to overruk us. said Student Senator< .hns Abood. 
Karu1 lngwast·n. Judicial CoUJKil , oordin.llor. disagrt-ed with Domagalski and Abood. "Wt· don't han· tht· right 10 ap· pron· tht· SAB t1st·al policy. only tht· Studt'lll St·n;llt·'s mom·y." sht• said. 
Studt·nt St·nawr K.C. Culum 
• l'oncurrt·d "Wt· art· rt·allv in a had posi:ion. Wt· don't have the ahility to ali<Katt· the money." he 
~aid 
The Student Government Con­
stitution empowers the senate to 
allocate the Student Activities 
Board's funds after a committee 
makes "recommendations." 
The fiscal policy that the senate must follow, however, states that each committee will "allocate" the li.mds. 
"It's (the t1scal polky) in con­flict with the constitution," said Student Body President Bill Healy. 
"The whole issue boils down as to whether we can reallocate their funds or not. Can we do that. and do we want to do that?" said Off-Campus Senator Jim Hagan. 
Healy said the fiscal policy is above the Student Government Constitution in the administra­tion's eyes, leaving the senate powerlt:ss to overrule the steer­ing committee. 
The senate then voted to pay the S 100 out of studelll govern­ment's own funds. making stu­dent government's total contrihution 5200. Hagan said. 
In other senate business. Vince Willis approached the senate as­king for help in hmning a com­mittee 10 investigatt· the feasihility of bring~ng cahlt: tekvision to the l niverstiy. 
llealy also announced to the st·nate that mountt·d polin· will patrol Grn:n l'icld on home foot· ball Saturdays to eni(Jrce the new poliey hanning kegs there. 
Domagalski said if the senate did not oppose the new no-kegs policy then "we will go back to our dorms in shame." 
"l.t·t's not let them take (the kegs) away." he said. No action was taken on the suhjt'ct :1t tht' mt'eting 



Board of Governance hears pledge of more efficient health services 
ByKIMBERLYTRENNER 
Senior StaffReporter 
"We want to help," seemed to sum up the feelings of Saint Mary's Health Services Director Gloria Chelminiak in her talk at last night's Board ofGovernance meeting. 
Chelminiak was present at the meeting to discuss the Health Service, answer questions, and to address any problems students have with the service. 
In the past, she said, students have complained about not receiving proper care from the Health Service, especially during busy times. 
Action now is being taken to try to improve services and to give stu· dents better care, she said. 
Beginning next semester, a nurse will be on duty to help the doctor cope with the abundance of stu· dents, Chelminiak said. The nurse will be able: to assess symptoms and start a student's treatment before the doctor arrives. 
Students will be screened by a nurse before they are able to see the doctor, she said. 
"We see an average of 50 to 60 students per day," said Chelminiak. The doctor cannot possibly see the 30 or so of these students who re­quest to see the doctor in one hour, she said. 
"We are beginning to realize the importance of communication with the students," said Chelminiak. 
"We have an obligation to have a good rapport with the students,"she said. Students who have problems with or questions about the service should contact Chelminiak at the Health Service located in the base· ment of Holy Cross Hall, she said. 
In other matters, the parietal sur­veys were given to the faculty and have been returned for review. "There were a lot of complaints among the faculty," said Student Body President Ann Marie Kollman. 
Faculty would like parietals to begin at 5 p.m., instead of the present 4 p.m. time, she said, be­cause of the problems they have leaving the building when side doors are locked. 
Two clubs also were discussed at the meeting. 
The two clubs, the ND/SMC Am· nesty International Club and the Communications Club, met with ap­proval from the Board. Amnesty In­ternational is a worldwide human rights union which opposes the torture ofpolitical prisoners. 
Student employment also was dis· cussed at the meeting. 
Because of a financial aid restric­tion, students are not allowed to have two johs on campus. 
"Several students have jobs at both SAGA Food Services and eJ. sewhere on campus," said Koll111an. 
Students who have two jobs are violating the restriction and must quit one job. 
Campus center concerns itself with service 
By DAN MURPHY 
News Staff 
What is the llrban Plunge? Itis not a dance nor is it a dive. 
Instead it is one of many service programs organized and offered by the Center for Social Concerns. 
The program is one of many receiving a very good response from students this year, according to Kathy Royer, the new coordinator of service/social action at the center. 
Approximately 1000 students are in some way involved in the center, she said. 
Some of those students are in· volved with the llrban Plunge, she said, which the center offers during Christmas vacation. It allows stu· dents to work in an inner-city situa­tion for two days in one of over 50 
ll.S. cities. Royer said. 
The latest addition to the list of programs offered is a student group which teaches illiterate South Bend adults to read, Royer said. 
Other volunteer programs sponsored by the center include a summer service program working with the poor, a semester program in Mexico, and a seminar in Wa.'i· hington, D.C. during semester break, she said. 
The center also serves as a meeting place and organizational tool for student service groups, she said. Some of these groups "have gotten new life and new, creative and interesting ideas," said Royer 
Besides being a meeting place, the center provides seminar rooms, a resource room, a reflection room, a library and a coffee house for the groups. The Center also aids in or­ganizing and carrying out programs for them, she said. 
Twenty-eight community and stu­dent service/social action groups set up booths at Stepan Center on Activities Night, she said, adding that this year the groups received the best response ofany year in the past. 
The center is divided into two branches: Service Learning and So­cial Analysis. 
The Service Learning branch sponsors the summer service program, as well as senior reflection groups, theology courses and post· graduate service opportunities. 
The Social Analysis branch in­cludes the llrban Plunge program, the Mexico program, the seminar in Washington, D.C. It also offers a program serving South Bend Hispanics and courses dealing with contemporary social issues, she said. 
News Department Steplulnle Alden Laura Coty Skftn Gallo Danjanlc:k Jim Mohlln .IUidly lloe John Wolten Maun:en Arley Pat Creadon Dale Ganobol.k Jim klly kndno Morrill 1..oun Ruble !Uiftn Webb GtobrleUe Arrleh ~late Cronin Dan Gerlach Jeffkroqlo BW D. Morru Peter Saul.lon Vkld Wodarcyk 11a Ann llarJier KtUdo Dany january Glrot Karlaltlaoman . Chrlo Murphy z.c:k Sc:hraotl l!rk11'old Cllndlce Becker ltllylu> Dtrrlo Helen Goudeau MINy .wro.-Chrlatopher Nee Dlaor 5c:hroe<kr Mary llerJer Terri DemJIH'Y john Grlllln ltMbleen J.uoldt juUe ODer hmSm.ltb .IUidly Berry Joe Dc:Piro BW llarlan TeftOII Mlldazew111d JuUe Pa1amato jail illrinWKbo Llam Bn:nnan Muk Drllfem Cindy H.ou joe Abrkey Chrllcopher Paulloon CUff-lUI jiiCqule Bn>mmel Kim Drzewtoc:hl Beth Healy Shannon Mllu...... SUMn Pawlecld G~ Stohr JuUe Byfield Mike Dunc:an Kevin Heu Tncey Mc:Cioekey A1loon Pm>nka Trlcla Szcupek Chrl8dne C.ponlpi M"'J Epn Lila Marie Hell Chrlo MA:Gutn l!ll.abdb Porter llonnll ll-Kathleen carney Michael Farnan Lee Herbert Mutt MdauJihlln Ellen Paycbu Pek Verdi Ed Ch-ut Kevin Fearnow Kathleen HUHou lllchelle MeiUIOft carl Pu-m jefflin: Tim Clarlr. john FlUM MlchlletlanneW D11WD Meyer Ileal llkbkr Tony Van Hoof These people who signed up to write for the Observer's news department, and everyone else jhterested in writing news this year are encouraged to attend a brief orientation meeting. these meetings will be: At Notre Dame At Saint Mary's: Lafortune Little Theatre Room 304, Haggar College Center Today at Sp.m. Tomorrow at 7:30p.m.  





Timothy Leary: 
In ea.rlg 1970, Learg escaped the Cali­
fornia men·s Colong and fled the 
countrg. Tmo gears later, the CIR 
trapped him in an Rfghani airport and 
brought him back to the States. He.ll 
be at DD mithout the CIR in tmo dags. 
The Future Pers~ectives Series 
-


,_•((((~m (([{(([00 ~:1 


Students & Faculty 
• Nosignup fee. 
" Nomonthly service fee. 
• Nominimwn usage ... pay only forwhal you use. 
SAVE 
UP TO 
40% 
ON YOUR LONG 
DISTANCE PHONE CALLS 
~ 


~::c 
SAVER.LINE 

CO:RPO:RATION nc lo~ 4i•hh~· ..;,,.... "''"' 
• Start saving today by 
cal~
SA RLINE 
at 
1-800-742-0528 
or dial direct 
1-812-232-2496 
Monday through 
Friday Bam 
to 5pm 

The Observer Tuesday, September 10, 1985 -page 4 
Leary
continuedfrom page 1 
In December 1965, Leary was traveling across the Mexican border with his daughter when one-half ounce of marijuana was found by police. He was tried on the charge of failing to pay tax on the marijuana, found guilty· and sentenced to 30 years in jail. 
In 1969, the Supreme Court over­turned the sentence on the ground fhat the marijuana tax law required self-incrimination and was theretore 
unconstitutional. 
After the reversal, he was tried on· the charge of smuggling and found guilty. He was sentenced to ten years in a minimum-security prison. 
He escaped in September 1970 and was granted political asylum by Algeria. He remained there until he was tracked down by the CIA and brought back to the United States. 
Incarcerated at Folson prison, his cell was next to that of Charles Man­son. He was released in july 1976. He then joined the lecture circuit and lectured with G. Gordon Uddy, one of those convicted in the Watergate scandal. 
After the Supreme Court decision, Leary announced his candidacy for governor of California. He lost the 1969 gubernatorial election to Ronald Reagan. 
Today, leary is the head of his own software company, Futique. His company designs highly interactive software for personal computers. His first program, "Mind Adventure" was touted by The LA. Weekly as "the best computer game ever." 
Tornado 
continued from page I 
dividually about the warning. "That's what the sirens are for," ac­cording to Anne Scheolinger, security investigator. 
Once the sirens go off, "people h~e to take some responsibility themselves," Scheolinger added. 
Residents of Pasquerilla East were some ofthose to seek shelter. Rector Sister joris Binder said a hall deci­sion was made to evacuate the upper floors after the warning was issued. 
In Pasquerilla East, the resident as­sistants acted as if the hall was having a fire drill, checking to make sure hall residents were moved to the first floor. "When a warning is given, something should be done," Binder said. 
Scheolinger said the Security office was swamped with phone calls from concerned individuals, some of them hall rectors who wanted to confirm the warning in order to determine what action their halls should take. 

Choosing a long distance 4:ompanyis a lot like choosing 
a roommate. 


Living together with someone for the first time can be an "educational" experience. 
And living with along distance company isn't any different. Because some companies may not give you all the services you're used to getting from AT&T. 
For instance,with some companies you have to spend a certain amount before you qualify for their special volume discounts.With some others,VQice quality may vary. 
But when you choose AT&T, there won't be any surprises when you move in.You'll get the 
same high-quality, trouble-free service you're used to. 
With calls that sound as close as next door. Guaranteed 60% and 40% discounts off our Day Rate-so you can talk during the times you can relax. Immediate credit for wrong numbers. Operator assistance and collect calling. 
So when you're asked to choose along dis­tance company, choose AT&T. Because whether you're into Mozart or metal, quality is the one thing everyone can agree on. Reach out and touch someone~ 

©1985 AT&T Co.mmunicotions 

--~-----------­
-~------------------­

Accent 
Tuesday, September 10, 1985-page 5 

Pyramids, camels and books -an ND tradition? 
I 
1 
, 1 
Mary Jacoby ~ 
assistant features editor 
, 1 
~ 
E 
veryone knows, ofcourse, that sophomore standing or higher, a it's pretty darn hard to get bored minimum GPA of 2.S, and three 1 
1
at Notre Dame these days, espe­letters ofrecommendation, any cially now that all the parties are Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student really starting to rock, lasting until a is eligible for admission without good 1 I :30 or so before getting previous study of Hebrew or busted up by the police. Arabic. 
But for those few who might be The Jerusalem campus, the interested in trying something center ofthis primarily ecumenical different for a while, the Univer­program, is located on the hilltop · 
sity's Foreign Studies Office is offer­community ofTantur on the road ing two new programs in Cairo, from jerusalem to Bethlehem. Al­Egypt and Jerusalem, Israel. though the University of Notre 
The Egypt program, which Dame sponsors this program, the operates through a special arrange­professors are drawn from a ment with the American University mixture of American, Canadian, in Cairo, has just recently been Israeli, and Arabic universities. added to Notre Dame's roster of Participation in the jerusalem foreign studies opportunities, and program can be for either one full <;onsequently has no students en­academic year or for either the fall rolled yet. The Jerusalem program, or spring semesters. however, was organizt•d la..~t year and currently has four Notre Dame students participating. 
The two new offering..., from the " 'Notre Dame 
Foreign Studies Office come as 
believes strongly 

additions to the department's al­
ready well-established programs in in the international 
lnnsbruck, Mexico City, Tokyo, and 
dimensions of 

Angers, Fran<:e. The department 
also offers an eight week summer education. The 
program in Tianjin, China. 
Why the expansion into the more students know Middle Ea..'lt now? According to 
about other

Isabel Charks. Assistant Provost 
Director of the Foreign Studies cultures, the better 
Program, the establi~hment of the 
they will be able to 

new programs just represents the 
llniversity's ongoing attempt to cope with today' s 
offer a wide range offoreign study 
opportunities. "Notre Dame ·world,' Charles 
believes strongly In the interna­
explained. '' 

tional dimensions of education. The 
more students know about other 
cultures, the better they will be 
able to cope with today's world," So you think the University might Charles explained. accept you for a year ofstudy in 
'Ihe development of new and jerusalem? Great, but just what expanded programs is in keeping exactly would that offer you? with University President Theodore "It's·a chance to explore an ab­Hesburgh's emphasis on study solutely fascinating culture," said abroad and the exposure to other junior Tripp Baltz, who has spent cultures which it affords. The par­time travelling through both Egypt 
ticular programs in Cairo and and Israel. As a participant in the Jerusalem were made available to University's Innsbruck, Austria students after members of the foreign study program last year, 
faculty expressed an interest in Baltz has had a chance to compare establishing some sort of study firsthand the many different 





opportlllnity in the Middle East. "In cultures ofwestern and eastern fascinating to observe these two Bible, Archaeology, Middle Eastern dents may only be allowed to at·general, where there is an interest, Europe and also life in the Middle cultures because they are so totallly history, comparative religions, tend for the spring semester. Allthe University will try to provide East. 
different from our American contemporary Arab/Israeli courses, except for the inter­support," Charles said. "I would highly recommend culture." problems, and introductory Hebrew mediate and advanced ArabicFor students wishing to study study in either Cairo or jerusalem and Arabic. classes, are conducted in English. 

next year in Jerusalem, the admis­because of the tremendous oppor­Baltz expressed a preference for An orientation session for foreign sion process is fairly simple. With tunities it provides," Baltz said. "It's Jerusalem over Cairo, only because The Cairo program, in com­students begins each year aroundit is more of a "tourist city," and is parison, offers the same exposure to September I 0, preceded by an much less hectic than the fast­Middle Eastern culture, but in the intensive ten-day course in Arabic. 
paced, crowded atmosphere of decidedly different context ofa . Cairo, which has developed into a 
Fields ofstudy in Cairo include major industrial center for nor­
Arabic language, Arabic literature, theastern Africa and the Middle 
Islamic art and architecture, Egyp­East. " It is precisely tology, and Middle Eastern history. 
"Jersalem is not an international Also, courses in political science, 
Jerusalem's
hub like Cairo is," Baltz s'a.id. "It's 
psychology, anthropology, business 
more interesting for the spiritual location in the administration oriented to the aspects." 
contemporary Middle East, English 
Holy Land which 
literature, mathematics and other
It is precisely Jerusalem's loca­
makes it an ideal areas are offered.
tion in the Holy Land which makes it an ideal spot for the study ofthe spot for the study All Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
history of the great monotheistic 
students with a strong overall 
religions -Judaism, Christianity, and of the history of average are eligible for participa­Islam -all in effect born and nur­
the great mono­tion. A committee from the Foreign
tured in the area which is the 
Studies Program then selects the 
eastern Mediterranean. Close to the 
theistic religions " actual participants. 
campus are the biblical cities of Jericho, Bethlehem, Nazareth, and As with all of Notre Dame's also the Sea ofGalilee. The area, foreign study programs, the cost for with its intriguing blend of rapidly growing industrial center. a year abroad is the same as regular mosques, synagogues and churches, Unlike the other Notre Dame tuition. Also, the program provides attracts a continuous stream of , foreign studies programs, the Cairo round-trip air travel, room and professors in the fields ofreligion, program is operated under the board, and tuition. The student pays history, and archaeology. These ' auspices ofanother university, the for his personal costs such as travel specialists can sometimes be en­American University in Cairo. The expenses, medical fees, food during listed as participants in the campus is located in the heart of holidays, and books. For more In· program, further enhancing the modern Cairo near the Nile River. formation, contact Isabel students' advantages ofstudy in the Students spend their junior year in Charles or the Foreign Studies area. The fields ofstudy include the Egypt, although engineering stu-Program office. 

---~----------­
~i~~~_()__i_Jl___t_________________Tu-es_d~_.s_ep-te-mb-e-rl-0,_19-85--p-ag_e-6 
There is a 'simple' solution to lack of ND security 
A!; one looks back over the thousands ofar­shadowy recesses ofthe wood for lone travel­ticles that have been printed in The Observer lers. The installation of lights a few years ago in the past few years, one begins to notice the · cut down on the problems a bit, but even so, a 
emergence ofcertain trends in topic selection . In the course of the average publishing year, opinions are ex?ressed on the quality of dining hall fare, the morality of the presence of the military at Notre Dame or security on the Notre Dame campus, to name a few. 
Andy Barlow 
obvious solutions 
It seems everyone has something to say_ on these matters and, although the names of the authors change, the opinions usually remain the same. The year begins and, in sequence, a fury mounts on each relevant topic. Harsh words are exchanged, and the tumult then dies down. Utde changes, and sohJtions are chosen rarely. Perhaps this year, instead of separating the issues and spreading them out over the semester, solutions may be found with the combination ofsaid topics. 
Take the current security problems at Notre Dame,for example. There has not been any real trouble in the past, but at times in the last four months the Notre Dame campus has come to resemble inner city Chicago with rape, shootings and theft becoming common. The campus may seem idyllic and peaceful when bathed in that warm Indiana sun, but when night falls this supposedly sheltered en­vironnient we live in becomes a jungle. 
The tree-lined road between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's has long been a favorite haunt of late-night attackers, who lie in wait in the member ofour community was assaulted just last year. People are calling for even stronger measures; improvements including stronger lighting or installation of 12-foot hurricane fencing along the length of the roadway have been suggested. 
Anyone who has done any construction lately could attest to the expense involved in such measures, not to mention the damage to the beauty ofthe walk itself. 
Do not think for even a moment that cost should even be considered when the safety of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students is dis­cussed. If a more cost-effective means can be found, however, it should be utilized. It may come as a surprise to some readers that the solutions to the security problem along this road are living and working within our midst. 
There is a segment ofthe Notre Dame com­munity with the training and background that makes them the perfect answer to our problem. 
Every summer our tax dollars are utilized for the training of certain members of the ROTC community in the arts of road patrol, self-defense, and small arms use. These stu­dents come back to school after a period of strenuous work and effon, only to find them­selves under attack from their peers for their vocational choice. Why not hire the Notre Dame ROTC Marines for a reasonable fee to ensure the safety of late-night strollers along the road bern;een Notre Dame and Saint Mary's? 
The benefits would be twofold. The ROTC Marines could earn money for their Semper Fidelis Association and would also gain valuable experience in standing watch, patrolling roads, and occasional hand-to-hand combat. With the security of this road es­tablished, people would feel more com­fortable making the intra-campus trip, road traffic would increase, and relations between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's would blossom. The social life would be even more enjoyable, as guys could not complain reasonably about "The Ratio." 
With the military presence at Notre Dame justified to all, the yearly debate over the morality of ROTC would be unnecessary, and the space in The Observer usually devoted to said discussion could be used for other impor­tant topics such as Canadian Football League scores or more canoons. 
Once the Marines have established them­selves and gained respect for their abilities as road patrollers, the Army Rangers could offer their services as replacements for campus Security in the dining halls on football weekends. A few strategically-placed grenades would do wonders for slowing the escalation of a food fight and only an idiot would try to sneak donuts past ,a bayonet­bearing Ranger. If this idea were to be used, the school could save money, people would come to love their ROTC brothers and sisters and the campus would be a much safer place to live. What could be better? 
Andy Barlow is a sophomore English major at Notre Dame and is a regular View­point columnist. 


Summer jobs allow for reflecting on responsibility 
The topic of conversation upon returning to campus invariably reverts to one's summer. Allow me, therefore, to answer any questions you may have about the three preceding months. 
r Michael Ialacci 
~ the troubadour 
r r 
r For many of us the summer is an education r in blue-collar lifestyle. For the past three sum­mers I have worked at an array ofmonotonous jobs. My workplace has been a factory, a butcher shop, and a golf course. My tasks have been simple and by no stretch of the imagina­tion intellectually taxing: assembling bingo equipment, switch by switch; grinding hamburger while inside a freezer; mowing 36 holes worth of golf. My coworkers have ac­cepted minimum wage in a sweat shop to make ends meet, have gone on strike to prevent a cut in wages and an increase in store hours, have been caught in dead-end jobs with only the ambition to make the full-time staff. 
I am not the only one to have these ex-

r 
~ 
r 
r 
, r ~ 

,r 
r GRfAT! fiRST DAY r Of SCHOOl ~N~ ~·~ . NRf4~Y GOT ro -rnKt A1E5T! 



8ELI/3Vt M&,
YOfJ I<JP5 ARE GO'VNA IN TH/3 
tOV& THIS PlAC£. IT'5 SUBWAY 
CWC& YOU 5eT7l£ 
IN, YOU'lL HARDLY

VERY COZY, ANIJRIGHT IS MOR& 
NCAR7H& IT. 
NOT/a .. H&Y! 
periences, but 1 offer them to add perspective to an often insular state of mind which can easily emerge in a collegiate "ivory (or per­haps more appropriately golden) tower" atmosphere. 
By virtue of our education, the University's prestige, and our own achievements, most of us will continue on to highly-motivating, well­paying jobs. We will be doctors and lawyers, engineers and professionals. We will work in finance and personnel, in sales and account­ing. Such is our ambition, and for many of us our ambition shall be fulfilled. 
We should not, then, take for granted the privilege ofstudying at a major university. It is not that we are innately more intelligent or talented than the common populace (though indeed we are talented), but that we have had the opportunity to cultivate our talents. 
We need to be more than merely grateful for our opportunity. For with privilege comes responsibility. Many of us will accept posi­tions ofleadership in the private as well as the public sector. We are charged, therefore, with guiding the lives of men, and we have the obligation not to abuse this charge. There is a noblesse oblige that the "educated class" owes to their subordiantes. 
John Rockefeller expressed this sentiment well in an address to the United Service Or­ganizations: "I believe that every right implies a responsiblity; every opponunity,an obliga­tion; every possession, a duty." 
We have a further duty, then, not to abuse the means of our privilege. Education is ac­hieved through sweat and blood, not by os­mosis. In order to better discharge our obligation, we are required to make the most 
Garry Trudeau 

of our opportunity. We should seek to be ed­ucated fully, not in name or diploma alone. 
Finally, we should not assume a superficial superiority over those who do not share this privilege. Their work is often monotonous and inane, yet they persevere despite these obstacles. These people must support them­selves (and in many cases a family) by the means available to them. 
It is easy for us to consider such people as lazy and unambitious, as ignorant or un­talented, or -even worse -as immoral or of suspect character. There are indeed some people who do fit this description, but many more are locked in blue-collar jobs simply be­cause they lack the necessary skills or diploma. Maybe they did not have the money for college. Maybe they married early. Per­haps they did not perceive the need for higher education. 
Yet such men and women do not deserve our sympathy, but our respect, nay, our ad­miration. They hammer out some meaning in life between paying rent and buying groceries, between worrying at>out rising crime and lowering property rates, between dejection and frustration. They heroically continue in the face of uncertainty and absur­dity. In "Profiles In Courage", John Ken­nedy said, "For without belittling the courage with which men have died, we should not for­get those acts of courage with which men ... have lived ... " 
I would I were not in his place, yet I shall not disparage a man for his position. 
Michaellalacci is a junior in the College of Arts and Letters. 
Quote of the day 
"You never realize what a good memory you have until you try to forget something." 
Franklin P.]ones 

---------------------------------------------------------------~~----------------------,------------~---.~--..----~~~------------~--------~------~--~------~ "ie~P-~O~i=n~t~------------------------------------------------------------T-u_e_sd_a~y-,S-e~p-te_m_b_e_r_l_o,_I_9_8_S~-p~a~g~e-7__ 
Public needs to be educated about birth control 
This country is long overdue for a lesson on The concern of the American College of people engage in sex for enjoyment than to what a crisis we as a nation arc: facing ? birth control. We have bred too many un­Obstetricians and Gynecologists is both make babies, then we can realistically It is a sad bit of irony when Miss Suburbia, wanted babies and the outlook grows genuine and valid. According to polls, more encounter the issue ofsex education and birth the captain of the chec:rlc:ading squad, comes gloomkr with each new year. The problem: as and more students have become sexually control. home one day and announces to her disbeliev­a nation, we arc: grossly uneducated with active. This is a reality which we must The greatest objection to birth control is ing parents that she is pregnant. respect to contraception and family planning. encounter. Whether or not people want to that it leads to rampant promiscuity. The logic Sex has become taboo in our society. We 
have sexual intercourse is entirely up to the being that if a woman cannot get pregnant, would rather stash the consequences of an parties involved. couples are more likely to have sex, for there uneducated parent, the harsh reality ofa new­

BillKrais 
We as parents, educators, clerics, or con­is no risk involved. But risks still remain in our born infant, into the closet. This problem, cerned citizens may express our concern communicable society. Free sex leads to an nevertheless, will continue to burgeon. about little Johnny and Susie having sex at unwanted and increased amount of social

save the whales 
such a young age. As time has proven, diseases. The threat of contracting AIDS or a We can no longer hope that our children however, we are not going to stop them from venereal disease is often enough to prevent a will not have sexual relationships; we can not 

This crisis and this nation's resistance to doing what they wish. We may establish cur­couple from having sex. even establish rules or regulations as resolving the problem at hand was high­fews, parietals, even put rectors in each of the preventive measures. We must air public lighted this past August. The American Col­college dormitories. We will not, however, Yet many are still unaware of the conse­service announcements; we must appropriate lege of Obstetricians and Gynecologists stop unwed women and men from having sex. quences of such diseases. These people, con­funds to sex education programs in all schools produced a public service announcement The problem which remains, the one which trary to popular belief, are not just inner-city at all levels; we must face the reality that which urges women with questions regarding we must courageously face, is how to stop teenagers; the sexually uneducated span our people will have sex without having the inten­birth control to contact them so that a wise these people from having that poor, unwanted socio-economic range. Few public and even tion of making a baby. and carefully considered decision could be baby. fewer private school systems have a substan­We must remember that an uneducated made by all women concerning pregnancy. It is naive to believe that everyone who has tial sex education program. Parents, while public today will breed an unwanted one Each of the major networks, however, in an sex is intending to have a baby. While the Cat­shunning reality, staunchly oppose such cur­tomorrow. attempt to shove this controversial yet essen­holic Church espouses sexual intercourse ricula. It is an unpopular decision for boards of tial issue under the rug, refused to air the an­only as a procreative method, that simply is education to allocate funds for such programs. Bill Krais is a junior In the College ofArts nouncement. not the case. Once we face this fact, that more What will it take for these people to realize and Letters. 
Story of loner should placate common depression 
This article is not about a Simon or a Gar­disregarded in their disinterest. There was playing ball or at a school dance. The only Four years later Wava graduated from a funkel. Neither is it about success or great­something unusual about him that made me sound Wava made came from the vacant room music school with a degree in classical guitar. ness. 'Ibis story deals with a more tragic ask my brother, "Why do I feel sorry for him?" above his mother's kitchen. It was music not He had practiced eight hours a day for 14 figure, a loner and his classical guitar. Recognizing my sincerity, my brother took of the Rolling Stones or the Beatles, but ofAn­years for that degree. The diploma was hung me onto his lap and told me the misad­gel Romeo and Scarlett!. Being with his guitar on the wall in the vacant room above his mot­ventures of Mark Waverly. so much certainly left an impression on Wava; her's kitchen. Wava now sits within the otherMarkMellet It started one chilly afternoon when Wava people believed he began to resemble it. three walls of that room earning his living by was in his childhood. He had nothing to do On the night of his high school graduation, performing for beginners and their cheap, cal­and no friends with whom to play. Because he the need for an audience threw Wava into the lous mothers. It is said, though, that on quiet
musical voice 
was bored, he decided to make a spectacle of role of a prophet. Having tossed his hat after nights you can pass the dwelling of Wava and himself. Wava phoned the local newspaper receiving his diploma, Wava took off his un­hear the artist stringing up a s,torm. It is just 

I first mel Mark Waverly at my brother's col­and reported that a boy was going to attempt derwear and placed it on his head. He put on Wava and his classical guitar, patiently await­lege graduation party. I was 14 and Wava, as to ride a bicycle from the limb ofa tree. Han­sandles and a cotton beard and created a shep­ing an appreciative audience. everyone called him, was in his early 20s. He ging up the phone, he ran to the garage and herd's staff out of an old microphone stand had hrown stringy hair, a voice that seemed to prepared for his audience. It is still unknown and a hanger. My brother became his pious When you are down and depressed about yawn when he spoke, and an ongoing relation­today how Wava hoisted his bicycle into that follower and drove him -gown, underwear life, fame or fortune, imagine Wava balanced ship with a stringed instrument. Wava had tree, or for that matter, how the doctors and all -to a dark deserted city street. W ava up in the tree on his bicycle awaiting the local come to play that night, and there were plenty successfully reconstructed his collarbone. proceeded to preach to street lights, reporters or his performances for the stone­of t'ars to enjoy him; thirteen old Slovak mailboxes, and store windows. "God is our faced mothers. If the thought makes you women and I sat in that room. I should have Growing up, Wava displayed a particular in­Savior," echoed down the block. smile, know you are not the only one having a gut·ssed that Wava had an uncanny mec­terest in the guitar. Ever since he picked up Unfortunately, two disbelievers driving a problem finding an accepting audience. hanism which drew him away from respect the frrst plastic one years ago, he has never let black and white car joined the congregation and into the life of the victim. go. Practicing for hours upon hours, Wava and prolonged his sermon. It lasted all night Mark Mellett is a sophomore In the College 
Mtt'r Wava departed that night he left me nearly missed his adolescence. Never would and culminated in a thunderous parental ofArts and Letters and a regular Viewpoint with the respect which everybody else had one hear Wava's sleepy voice among the kids penance service. columnist. 
P.O.BoxQ 
their ideas. Thus, since we owe everyone settled until it is well chewed by the teeth of Catholic scholars and students. In fact, non­equal respect as persons, each pers.on's ideas disputation." 

Catholics with opposing views would beLack of Catholic view seem to possess the same truth value as For example, I did not fear the speech and become fully
welcomed would more delivered by Gov. Cuomo. Instead, I looked aware of the opposition the University has toeveryone else's. 
Obviously this problem would be solved if forward to the opportunity first to find out any false notions they might advocate; opposi­tion would be nothing to fear, for here it 

is the problem at ND 
the University conveyed to and instilled in its whether he was actually saying the things Dear Editor: students the beliefthat it does accept a certain people were claiming he was saying, and would imply not censorship but rigorous 
In a letter to the editor on Sept. 3. Bernie world view, a view I believe a Catholic univer­second, having determined that he was saying debate. Bauer related his dismay at the invitations ex­sity must accept, that at once respects persons those things, to sharpen my own counter­tended by the llniversity to promiqent op­and their rights but -no matter how arguments by contrast with his. I ended up It is true that they might ultimately be used ponents of Catholic teaching such as Mario coherently they express themselves-does not concluding that he is a marvelous rhetorician to advance by contrast views they think ab­Cuomo, governor of New York and Eleanor necessarily accept what they think as true. but a terrible logician. surd, but they would also be able to freely Smeal, a pro-abortionist. While I share his dis­If Notre Dame succeeded in this endeavor, express their ideas. 
taste for the views advocated by these people, students, scholars and speakers would be All false ideas, including those of Gov. Should Notre Dame and other universities I do not belleve there is a problem to be found more conscious of the intellectual atmo­Cuomo, do more damage when they are do what I propose it would not only be a Cat­in asking them to come and speak. I think the sphere they choose in coming here. allowed to spread like an insidious character holic university, but a catholic university. problem lies, rather, in an apparent absence We would not be afraid of the ideas of ot­in a Graham Greene novel, clandestinely Possibly we, as Christians, would then cease 
within the University of a coherent and ex­hers but welcome the opportunity to evaluate sowing discord. We should relish the chance to be portrayed as superstitious dullards and plicit world view that could properly referred to t:xpose the spy and combat him. Truly, as be known as Christians not only by our love, to as Catholic. 
their truth value. Then, on the basis of that Winston Churchill said, "we have nothing to but also by the excellence, coherence and 

It appears that Notre Dame advocates de evaluation, we would either accept or reject fear, but fear itself." grace ofour thoughts. facto, along with most of American society, a those ideas. Confident of our ability to attain It does not follow, however, that by em­relativistic attitude toward truth. The Univer­truth, we could never believe with the phasizing a more ardently Catholic world john P. O'Callaghan sity se('ffls to transfer respect from persons to medieval school that "a question is never view the University would "scare off" non-Notre Dame Graduate Student 
Editorial Board Operations Board 

The Observer 
P 0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Editor-in-Chief .................... ..... Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager. . .......... David Stephen11ch Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan Controller... ....... ..... .. .. William J. H1ghducheck News Editor.... .................... . ...... Keith Harrison Jr Advertising Manager. . . ... . ........... J1m Hagan

The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ......................... ........ Dan McCullough Systems Manager.. .Mark B. Johnson 

Notre Dame duLac and Sam! Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Production Manager.. . . John A. Mennell 

adm1n1strat1on of e1ther mst1tution. The news IS reported as accurately and objectively as pos­
Sports Editor..................... ...... .. ..... JeH Blumb 

Sible Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opmion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
AccentEd/tor................. .. . .. Mary Healy tanes, le«ers and the lns~de Column present the v1ews of their authors. Column space 1s 
Viewpoint Editor..... ...Joe Murphy ava1lable to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on Photography Editor.... .. .............. Peter C. Laches 
campus, through letters, IS encouraged. Copy Chief...... ................. .. .Frank Lipo Founded November 3, 1966 
---~ ----~-----1 
l 

Tuesday, September 10, 1985-page 8
Sports Briefs 
Interhall officialsare neededfor football and 
socc~r. For more information, contact the NVA office in the ACC.­
The Observer 

It's NO VS. SMC as the Notre Dame Women's Soccer Club meets Saint Macy's new varsity team todayat 4:30p.m. on the Angela 
NVA softball deadlines have been extended for

Athletic Field. -The Observer both the co-ree and 16-inch competition. All rosters are due tomorrow in the NVA office. -The Observer 
The ND indoor and outdoor track teams 
will be meeting tomorrow at 4:30p.m. in the football auditorium in Interhall soccer rosters are due in the NVA office the ACC. All prospective team members must attend. -Tbe Observer tomorrow. An entry fee of $25 must accompany each hall's roster.­Tbe Observer 
An outdoor volleyball tournament will 

The NDJudo Club will begin practice tomorrow at 7 be held by NVA. Teams of at least nine players may register until 
p.m. on the second floor of the Rockne Memorial Building. Anyone tomorrow at the NVA office in the ACC. The limit for this elimination ·who is interested may attend. -Tbe Observer tournament is 32 teams. -The Observer 
A scramble golf tournament will be held by

The ND Men's Volleyball Club will hold NVA on Sunday, Sept. 15. Students, faculty and staff may register as tryouts tomorrow and Thursday from 9 p.m. to 11 p.m. in the ACC individuals or pairs. The deadline for submitting $4 greens fees to Pit. Anyone who is interested must attend both nights. -Tbe Obser­the NVA office is tomorrow. -The Observer ver 
The ND Fall Golf Open was won by Tim Hanlon, The off-campus soccer team will be practic­who fired a 36-hole total of 140. Last year's captain and MVP John ing today at 6 p.m. on the Stepan Fields. Anyone who is interested O'Donovan finished second at 14 ~, after firing a 67 in the opening 
may attend. For more information, call Buddy at 289-4242. -Tbe 
round. Sophomore Rich Connally finished in third place at 144. -The Observer Observer 
Graduate touch football teams of six players The ND /SMC sailing clubwm have a meeting for 
each may register as a department until tomorrow at the NVA office all members tonight at the boathouse. For more information con­in the ACC. -The Observer tact Paul IiJ'amer at 3186. -The Obsert•er 
The ND Squash Club will conduct a beginner's Speaking of Sports, Notre Dame's own campus clinic tonight at 7 p.m. in the gallery courts in the ACC. Anyone who sports talk show, will be aired tonight at 10 p.m. on WVFI AM-64. is interested may attend. For more information, call William Mapot­Join host Chuck Freeby for a discussion of the 1985 Irish football herat 283-3451. -Tbe Observer team by calling 239-6400. -The Obsert•er 
The ND Tae Kwon Do Club will begin practice An open innertube water polo tournament 
tonight at 7 p.m. in the fencing gym in the ACC (Gate 4). Members will be held by NVA. Teams of 10 players (with at least four women) should bring a t-shirt and warm-ups. For more information, call 
may register by tomorrow by paying a $1 0 fee at the NVA office in Kerry at 288-5440. · Tbe Observer 
the ACC. -The Observer 
Dallas beats Redskins by 44-14 score 
Associated Press 

IR\"ING. Tex;ts Dallas' determined defense intercepted joe Theismann five times Monday night and Cowboy quarterback Danny White and placekicker Rafael Sep­tien made Washington pay for its mistakes with a 4-!-14 National Foot­ball League victory over the Redskins. 
White. wearing a flak jacket for the first time in his career. directed a 9H-yard scoring drive and combined on a 'i'i·yard scoring strike with Mike Renfro while Septien kicked field goals of 'i 3. 39. and 4 3 yards. 
Cornerback \'ic!Or Scou com­pleted the humiliation ofTheismann on his 36th hirthday by plucking off a pass amJ rerurning it 26 yards for a touchdown to huild Dallas' lead to :W points midwa\ through the fourth quarter 
Wa.~hington reserve quarterback Jay Schroeder didn't !arc any heuer than Theismann. serving up a 21­yaru touchuown inte'rception rt·turn to Dennis Thurman with 2:'50 ldt in the game. 
·111e Cowhoys' victory O\'er their hatt·d :'l:ational Foothall Conference Eastern Divbion rival snapped a three·game losing streak to the Rcdskins. 
7hf! Obst'rl'f!r :">iotre Dame otfke. lm·atnl on till' third floor of L.th>rtune ~tudent Ct·ntt:r. acn·pt' da~sifkd adn·rti,ing from') a.m. until l p m. \tondJY through Friday. Tht! Obsf!t"t't'r Saint \tan·, olfitt·. loc·Jil'd on I he third floor of Haggar Collt:gl' C:t·ntt·r. acn·p" da,,,ifil'd., fmm I .?:.~0 p.m until ~ p m...\ton­Jay though FridaY Deadline ti>r nt·xt-da\ da"itinb i' .~ p m All da"ilkJ, must hl' pn·paid. eith<:r in pc:"on or hy mail <:hargt· i' Ill t'l'nh pl'r fin· t·harac·
Classifieds 
tc:rs t:r day 



NOTICES 
Tha Noire Dame Computing Centar ia loolcing for qu•fiecl IIUdent employ-. See Kely Hav-for more detaila. 
$1Q-$360 WMidyNp Mai~ng Cin:utara! No boAtll/quota! -sincerely intarM!ed ruiWl aetf-lddrtiiMCI envelope: Dept. AM­7CEG. PO Box 830. Woodltock, IL 60098. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TYPING CALL CHII!a :IM-8117 
Club 1.._ meeting tomorrow night in Lafortune Utile Th-e at 7:15 p.m. Everyone ftlcoma! 
IIMTA IW.LY AQAJ...,-ITMVA110N 
w...._..,e:JOpm 
Votun-Poeitione avaiteble for Com­munication and Theatre productiontl in: publicity. promotion. program delign, aound, and lighting. For information cat1 Tor11 s.rkt11 at 239-5956. 
LOST/FOUND I 
REWARD-REWARD-REWARD­LOST AMETHYST and GOlD BEADED BRACELET. GREAT SENTIMENTAl VALUE TO MEII IF FOUND. PLEASE CAU. GRETCHEN. AT 32119. 
LOST; black tape cua with calection of CMMIItll and a radio eclaptor . If found, Clll Kathy at 283-3680. 
BOOK BAG MIX-UP!! IF YOU GRABBED THE WRONG BOOK BAG FROM UN­DER ONE OF THE OUTDOOfl TABlES AT THE BOOKSTORE ON WED. 8/28, I'VE GOT YOUR BAG. MY BAG WAS THE SAME AS YOURS, EXCEPT THAT MINE WAS EMPTY AND YOURS HAD A PACK OF TEABERRY GUM AND AN ELK COUNTY SAVINGS PEN IN IT. IF YOU EVER WANT TO SEE YOUR GUM ANO YOUR PEN AGAIN. CAU. 2280. 
THANKS!! 
REWARD-REWARD-REWARD!!! LOST: OLYMPUS Autofocua Garnenl tat Sat. f19lt (8/31) at N.D. Apta. party. I wil pey big buck& tor ita return or Info '-ding to ita return. If you have It and won't return It, 
could you at lea8t -me the fltm? Juat flip the awitch on 1he boelom of your new 
cam.. to rewind it, open It, Mel mail it to 225 Flamer. Ita the lea8t you could do in return tor the nice gill. 
FOUND: BASKETBALL OUTSIDE OF STEPAN COURTS LAST WEEK. CAU. 1651 TO IDENTIFY. 
LOST DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT RING. VEAY IMPORTANT. PLEASE CON­TACT AliCE AT 232-608111F FOUND. 
................................,...........................u., 
LOST:BROWN WALLET AT "KARATE KID." I DESPERATELY NEED MY LICENSE!!! I DON'T CARE ABOUT THE MONEY OR THE OTHER 10. CAU. MAR­TIN MCNULTY AT 3274. NO QUEs­TIONS. 
STOLEN: Umbrella from South Dining Hal between 11:23 and 12:09 on Monday the 9th. It ia euily identifiabte,and it I ­you on campua with it, ... you don't want to know the rtllt. Return it to the Ad Build­ing Loe1 and Found, or Holy Croaa Hal. Save yourulf phylicaland mental pain. 
LOST: Gokt/ailver imitation Rolex watch, loat Sat. nignt(tne 7th) at eitn.-Campua vi-. St.Louia St., or 0-6. It -a very lpeeial gift, PLEASE HELP ME OUT! R__,d offered. pi-calf Jim at 3649 (416 Morriuey). THANKS!!! 
LOST: My goldtone watch IOIMWhere be-Alumni and Walall. If found, p/eaa call ~en at x2623. 
FOUND AT THE AUGUSTA BASH SAT. NIGHT: A PAIR OF COOL SUNGLASSES CALL 284-5308 OR 5310 TO CLAIM THEM. IF NO ONE CLAIMS THEM, WE'RE KEEPING THEMI 
OK, SOMEONE ACCIDENTAlLY RIPPED OFF MY BROWN BED CHAIR FROM GAMCO STORAGE BULK 4. IF YOU HAVE IT PLEASE RETURN IT TO AUGUSTA HAU OR CALL STEPH AT 284-5308 BEFORE I COME LOOKING FOR IT. THANKS 
LOST: REO SOCIAL WORK BOOK NEW IF FOUND CALL 284-4431 
FOR RENT 
Female roommate needed. $95 mo. Cloae to campua. Gatl272·24 78 
Nice turniahed houae good neighborhood approx. 1 mile north of NO 2n-3604/683­8888. 
WANT ROOMATE TO SHARE EX­PENSES IN LOCATION NEAR N.D. 239 5144 ASK FOR BETH 
ROOMMATE WANTED. IRISH HIUS APT. FURNISHED, CALL 281-8895, JIM 
FEMALE IIOOMIIATU WANTED AT NOTIIE DAilE APTI-CALL ANNE AT 
21000ftiHIM.EYAT214-e147 
Mature grad atudent with comfortable fur­niallecl ~oom home in pleaaant neighborhood 1 3/4 miltll from campua deaire1 two houaemet" to ah.., quiet, friendly, non-amoking environment. $140 per month, plua utiliti... Cal 232-8327 Nrtyorlate. 
OFFICE SPACE (IDEAL FOR ATTOR­NEY)740 SQ.FT.-OFF·STREET PARKING-BUSY DOWNTOWN LOCATION-307 HIU STHEET­CALL:233-0187 FOR MORE INFO. 
LARGE 5 ROOM APARTMENT-1/HALF BATHS,2 BEDROOMS.307 HIU STHEET-$400. INCLUDES UTIUTIE5­CAU. 233-0187 
WANTED 
wanted 2 gas to any home games call 272-3491 
NO Prof. leeka rt~~ponaible atudent to help with houaework. errands one fuH or two half days a week. 3 l:lto<:Q from campua. $25.00. Ext. 7659 or 5212. 
NEED TIX FOR MICH STATE(3) BOS 1751 
Prof. leeka co-ed to babyait toddler one nile a week. 233-1873 alter 6 p.m. 
WANTED, RIDERS TO AND FROM ST. LOUIS WEEKEND OF 9/13. CALL MIKE AT288-4650 
SMUWANTEDNM$ Travel enthuaiuta wanted to join the na­tion'• moat reputable C&mpua Rep. Sattll Team. Earn unlimited commiuiontl and FREE tripa promoting Ski & Beach tripe. catt SUNCHASE TOURS INC. Today! 1­8oo-321 -5911 
ROAD TRIP TO NYC OR ll AREA Riders needed. Lvg 9/12-8/15Chria3654 
NAUGLES needa delivery people for N.D. & S.M.C. Gat required. Apply in person. 
FOR SALE 
.............................................. Is It True Yilu Can Buy Jeeps tor $44 through the U.S. government? Get the facta today' Call 1-312-742-1142, Ext. 7316. 
1980 toyota celica 2dr 5 speed clean be­atofler 299-0150. 
TICKETS 
DON'T SEU YOUR MICHIGAN STATE TIX TO SOMEONE ELSE SEU THEM TOME! I'M DESPERATE. CALLBOSAT 1248. THANX. 
I need 2 and/or 4 GA's tor Michigan State a aoon u poaible. Gall Mike at 1806 
I NEED USC GA's Have caah & home GA'alortrade: Call DAVE 1712 
······························································ 
Need 4 GA'S FOR ARMY GAME!! PLEASE CALL 272-4540 
WiM pay your next aemester's book bill (or name your price) tor 4 Or 5 UIC G.A.a. catl4112. 
NEED MICHIGAN STATE TIX BADLY! CAU. MIKE ]288-5355 
Need 2-4 MSU GA'a for my boaa!Hetp me Save my job! call Scon at x1803 
NEED MICH ST STUD TIX. CALL JIM 1489 HELP! Need 2 MSU GAa. WiH trade MISS or LSU, or pay$$$. ED 1857 
········································ 
NEED 1 MICHIGAN ST TIX !!! Stu or GA. call 1562 
UNCLE lAM WANTS YOU III To Give Up Ionia Army G.A.'a Be All You Can Be And Call Sammy at 20n·or 2078 (Weoffercaah, expetience, and travel op­portunities.) 
I NEED TWO GA'S TO THE MSU GAME. CALL 2752 AFTER 5:00PM 
I DESPERATELY NEED MANY MSU TICKETS CALL MIKE 1476 
PLEASE. I'M DESPERATE! IT'S MY BIRTHDAY ON THE 21at -SEU ME 6 MICH. ST. G.A.'S AND YOU'U BE INVITED TO THE PARTY!! PLEASE CAU ANNE 284-5048 
HELP! MY PARENTS WIU KIU ME IF I DON'T GET THEM 2 GA'S FOR MIC­HIGAN STATE. I'M DESPERATE! CALL 284-4318. S$$SS 
HELP SAVE A LIFE. I need 2 ARMY 
G.A.slf you are a true lif818ver, can Pele 
2448 
.................... 
I need Michigan State GA'alf you can help 
call Stan at 2341 
NEED 3 MICH. ST. TIX FOR FUTURE COMERS, STUD. OR GA'S. CAU. MIKE AT1655. 
NEED 2 GA FOR EITHER ARMY OR USC. CALL BOS, 234-8008 AFTER 5 PM 
NEED UIC TlCKETII WIUING TO TRADE ANY OTHER HOME GA'S(OTHER THAN MSU) FOR SOUT­HERN CAL GA'S. CAU J.G. AT 3526. 
HELP-NEED 3 G.A.'S FOR ARMY GAME $$ CALL CHRIS 1135 
WHAT DO YOU WANT FOil YOUII 
M.I.U. TICKET? I'M WIWHO TO MEET ANY OFFEII. I NEED 3 TlCKETI­ITUD/G.A. CAll STEVE 33111-t.ET ME TIIY TO GET YOU WHAT YOU WANT IN EXCHANGE. 
HELP! Need 4 GA't for Miaa. Nov. 9. Call Kathleen 232-6298. 
NEED TICKETS TO NO VS USC GAME CALL 2n 4324 EVENINGS BETWEEN 6:00&11:00 
2 MSU student ticketa available. Cart 288­2348 aher 6 PM 
Jeraeyite wiN trade 2 MSU and 2 MICH tix for 2 USC G.A. tix. Call Jeff alter 7 p.m. at 201-356-6534 
HAVE USC TIX TO TRADE FOR MSU TIX. PH (502) 443-4754 
Big$$$ for 2 MSU GA'a. Call Rich at 283­3202 
2 U of M TICKETS 4-aale BO 3654 
I NEED TIXS FOR MICH & All HOME GAMES.272-6306 
I have Mich. and Mich. St. tix. Best offer. Eric 1527. 
NEED 4 GA'S FOR MICH. STATE. CAU 284-4408. 
PERSONALS 
Your only obligation 1n any lifetime is to be true lo youraelf -Richard Bach, /Nusions 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N., 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
Wordproc-ng Call Dolores2n-6045 
Metika-HAPPY BIRTHDAY'!!! Think to the future and all the good timea we have ahead ol ua. Remember, today 1s the first day ol the rest of your lite, and what better day to atart then today!l Love. Kathy 
80PHOIIOIIES: FUN •us'88 TO U OF Ill Tix $12 include tranapo, lodging & party­ing w/frata, tailgater. Leave Fri 5 pm Return alter game (no game tix provided). Tix on aale atarti ng Mon ] Soph Clua Office 4-9 pm. PMTY wtTlf '8811 
WANTED: PMTY ANIMAL WHO CAN WRITE. The Obaerver Accent aection n-a 21-year-old tor-ch and write ita new weekly column, the S.Beat For information contact Mary Healy at The Obaerver. 239-5313. 
Attention!! All pul, preaent, and furure progreaaives'!The Progreaaive Muaic Club will be holding ita first organizational meeting on Tu-y, September 10 at 6:30pm in Lafortune'• Little Theatre. Don't forget to bring your $5.00 duea pay­ment!! 
The entire city of Piqua, Ohio is coming out to see NO play Michigan Stare. They are willing to trade in their whole collec­tion of Slim Whitman 11/bums fo buy ffck­ela. Pleue help them. lf'a not often theae people get out of Ohio. 
Cell Amy at 239-5303 or 272-9519. 
701 GRACE GUYS AND THE GOD: HE'S BRAVE TOO! BUT HE DOESN'T WALK GIRLS HOME. 
HI MURPHSKY HOW'S TRICKS 
HAPPY 21st MARY PAT CALLANAN AND ROSIN RODI-SEPT. 10 AND 11. SEE VA AT MR. D'S TUES. AND SENIOR BAR WED. LOVE, US 

ITEVE H.-SORRY ABOUT ACCUSING YOU OF SOMETHING YOU DIDN'T DO. I SHOULD HAVE KNOWN BETTER. WHEN'S THE CHRISTENING? 
HAPPY .ELATED .IIITHDAY TO DON EL·ETEII -lOftilY A.OUT .EIHQ LATEll 
TRICIA: 

lYONS VOLLEYBALL for LOGAN T -ahirta on aale 1n the dinmg h ...TONITE at dinner for $5.00 or call Joame x 2926 
MYSTERY LADY· aka Triall, Sia, Dike. Heart that affalf1Now what?-«h 
THERESE. Nabbed again' Only Ob­noxioua people watch Rhino. I have sand in my eara and a billion dollara11. 2. 3. Soy Wonder 
why is it that the only place at NO you can find a dtllcent boy/girl ratio '• in the ice aeamline? 
Pre Profeea1onal Society Organllahonat MeetingTu-y, 10Seplember6:30pm 127 Nieuwtand Pre Prof-onat up­perctaumen and Interested freshmen are encour~ to anend. 
JOSH-DID I EVER TELL YOU I WENT TO ISRAEL? Serioualy, I had a lantutic time Saturday (late though you were). Happy belated (BELATED) birthday, and leta do it again aometimeaoon. --CATH 
BED & BREAKFAST, Football weekends for NO parenta. Two (2) n1ght minimum. 10 mina. from campus. 272-5840. 
HAPPY 21at CLAIIE...ELLEtlya bit cow you...la that your noee behind your hand or what?I?WII you be out belora 10 tonlte M uau.. or Clln ahe hang wtth the big lloya?T•• _.you 81tly thing CIIUH '" love you... love rob,dan,kevin,mike,pat,bill 
jeanene, sorry...how bout 7:15 wed,love, yo· little frogman 
T, yumyum. 

Un1on certified wall apackler lor hire. 1 room coata $1 80 which covers matetiata and labor at union wages. Price do8tl not include shot of bourbon. 
Who's voice ia that? ...And why do they all talk like that? 
SEE CHICAGO FOR $5-SIGN UP FOR THE "AROUND THE CORNER CLUB"'S TRIP AT STUDENT ACTIVITIES BY FRIDAY. BUS LEAVES FROM THE LIBRARY CIRCLE ON SAT. SEPT. 14, AT 8:45 A.M. AND ARRIVES DOWNTOWN AT 11:00 A.M. 47 SEATS AVAILABLE SO SIGN UP/PAY SOON. 
JIM Hi hon. Say pudding. I hate when that happens' Thanka for everything. You're really apecial. Love Me 
IAIUNG ClU. MEETING FOR NEW AND OLD MEMBERS TONIGHT 6:30 AT THE BOATHOUSE. NEW MEMBERS PLS BRING CASH OR CHECK­$20/SEM. OR $30/YEAR. 
The Observer Tuesday, September 10, 1985 -page 9 
Baseball 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Eaat w L Pc:t. G8 N-York 82 53 607 
P•nlburgh 43 90 323 38 
w.., 
Lee Angelea 79 55 590 C•nc•nnau 71 63 530 8 San D•ego 70 66 515 10 Houaton 66 69 489 13.5 Atlanta 58 n 430 2t'.5 San F ranc•aco 53 82 393 26.5 
Standings 

St.Loull 82 53 607 Montreal 73 62 .541 9 Ph•ladelph•a 66 68 493 15.5 Ch•COIQO 65 70 481 17 

AMERICAN LEAGUE  
Eaat  
w  L  Pc:t.  G8  
Toronto  86  51  .628  
New York  84  52  .618  1.5  
Ball• more  71  62  .534  13  
DetrOit  71  65  .522  14.5  
Boston  67  69  .493  18.5  
Milwaukee  60  76  .441  25.5  
Cleveland  49  88  .358  37  
Weal  
KanaasC•ty  77  58  .570  
California  76  60  .559  1.5  
Ch1cego  68  68  .500  9.5  
oakland  68  69  .496  10  
Seanle  63  73  .463  14.5  
Minnesota  62  74  .456  15.5 .  
Texas  49  86  .363  28  

v..terdey'a A..ulta  
Ball• more at Boston. ppd .. ra•n  
C•nc•nnat• 2, San D1ego t  Toronto 5, DetrOit 3  
Lee Angelea 9. Atlanta 7  M•nneeote 5, Ch1cego 0  
Ch•COIQO 3, St Lou• a 1  New York 9, Milwaukee 4  
Houlton 4 San Franoaco 2  Kan8U C•ty at Califorrna, (n)  
Cleveland at Seattle, (n)  
Texas at Oakland, (n)  


gaining weight. But my game turned into something else. A way of life. Bulimia had taken over. Making me feel guilty. Alone. And out of control. 
One phone call helped me begin to change all that. When I con­tacted HOPE, I discovered a spe­cial program designed by Memorial Hospital of South Bend that helps people like me who have eating dis­orders. By the end of the program I was finally feeling better about myself -finally feeling like ~ was in control. 
If you or someone you know has an eating disorder, call284-7151. And discover how HOPE can help. 
HOPE 

Healthy Options for Problem Eaters 
An affiliate of Memonal Hosp1tal of South Bend ffi 

615 North Michigan • South Bend, IN 46601 
Rose sits out game against lefthander 
Cardinals lose; Mets tied for first 
Associated Press 
Reds 2, Padres 1 
ST. LOUIS -Ryne Sandberg and Keith Moreland drove home first­CINCINNATI · Dave Concep· 
inning runs and Shawon Dunston cion's ninth-inning single off Goose singled home another in the second, Gossage scored Dave Parker from leading the Chicago Cubs to a 3·1 tri­second base and gave the Cincinnati 
umph last night over the St. Louis Reds a 2-1 victory last night over the Cardinals. San Diego Padres. Reds player-manager Pete Rose,
With their third straight loss, the who singled twice Sunday to equalCardinals dropped into a first-place Ty Cobb's all-time hit record oftie in the National League East with 4,191, didn't play yesterday becausethe idle New York Mets. 
the Padres started left-hander DaveThe Cardinals open a three-game Dravecky. Rose plans to play todayseries tonight in New York. Mon­against right-hander LaMarr Hoyt. 
day's game was scheduled as a Parker led off the ninth inningmakeup to a contl·st postponed by with a single to center off Gossage, the AuguM strike. 
3-3, making his third appearanceRay h>ntenot. 6-H, Jay BaUer and since coming off the disabled listRon Meridith combined on a seven· after arthroscopic knee surgery. Eric hitter for Chicago. Meridith got the Davis bunted Parker to second andlast out and his first save. 
Concepcion singled one out later onBot> Dcrnier's leadoff walk and a 2-2 pitch, his third hit ofthe game.
stolen base li>llowed by Gary Mat­John Franco, 12-2, pitched onethews' single. Sandberg's groundout perfect inning for the victory inand :\lorcland's single got Chicago relief of Andy McGaffigan, whooff to a fast start in the first against allowed four hits in eight innings.
Kurt 1\.epshire. I 0-9. 
Dodgers 9, Braves 7 
ATLANTA · Mike Marshall, who had hit a two-run homer in the fifth inning, capped a five-run eighth with a two-run single yesterday to lead the Los Angeles Dodgers to a 9·7 vic­tory over the Atlanta Braves. 
The Dodgers trailed 6-3 when Bill Madlock and Mike Scioscia hit con· secutive one-out singles against Zane Smith, Atlanta's third pitcher. 
Bruce Sutter, 7-7, replaced Smith and walked pinch-hitter Len Matus­zek, loading the bases. A run-scoring single by Steve Sax and a two-run single by pinch-hitter Franklin Stubbs tied the score. 
An out later, Sutter walked Ken Landreaux intentionally to load the bases again, setting the stage for Mar­shall's game-winning hit. 
Blue Jays 5, Tigers 3 
TORONTO Cecil Fielder, George Bell and Garth Iorg hit home runs last night, leading the Toronto Blue Jays over the Detroit Tigers 5· 3. 
The Blue Jays began the night with a I l/2-game lead in the American League East over the New York Yankees, which was playing in Milwaukee. Toronto starts a four­game series in New York on Thursday night. 
Yankees 9, Brewers 4 
MILWAUKEE · Mike Pagliarulo's fourth hit of the game, a two-run single in the I Oth inning, sent the New York Yankees to their lOth straight victory, a 9-4 triumph last night over the Milwaukee Brewers. 
New York remained I 1/2 games behind American League East­leading Toronto, which beat Detroit 5· 3. The loss was the sixth straight for the Brewers. 
The Yankees ripped relievers Ray Searage, 1-4, and Bob Gibson for five runs in the I Oth inning. 
Lyons Hall would like to thank the following for their contri­butions to Lyons Volleyball for Logan: 
Notre Dame Alumni Association Student Government Student Activities Board Chris' Ice Cream McDonald's Irish Gardens Dillon Hall-esp. Tom, Steve, &Frank Referees from Alumni Carroll &Zahm for equipment Mr. Benninghoff Gerry Chris Dr. Kelly Rich O'Leary Ron Erikson from Maintenance Joe Baske Mike Mara Mike Connors Mike Rataczak Mark Krebs 

&. all Lyonltes_ ~p. Gretchen Wroblewski 
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING 
TUESDAY, SEPT. 10 7:00 
~RM. 122 HAYES-HEALY 
ALL WELCOME 

The Observer Tuesday, September 10, 1985-page 10 
Baseball 
continued/rom page 12 
Yet despite all the plans that have materialized, one thing still stands in the way -a S3.86 million price tag. A bond issue providing the funds has yet to.be passed by the city council, 
but David Roos, Administrative As­sistatit to the Mayor, has reason to belie';':e :that nothing will stop progr~ss in the River City. 
"Actually, the bond issue is moving· relatively quickly. We had planned the timing of the issue to coincide with the baseball season, so 
we ire right on schedule from our point. of view," comments Roos. "Back in July the city council ap­
propriated a half-million dollars to get the project started, so I think that speaks for the view of the council. 
"lbis is a rare opportunity to ex­pand the sports and recreation in this city and bring new economic 
possibilities to the downtown area. We saw just that type of thing hap­pen with the recently developed East Raceway." 
Roos and the Staleys are open to multiple uses of the facility, which would be located close to the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses, 
with plenty ofparking available. Spe­cial Olympics, cultural events, con­certs, high school sponing events and even Notre Dame baseball could possibly be played there. 
"I think it is great for the area and for us," states Larry Gallo, the head coach of the Irish baseball team." Anytime there is a professional team in the area it enhances the interest in that sport. I think it would be good from our standpoint because it could increase the awareness ofour ballclub." 
Staley also hopes to get the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities involved through internships with marketing, communications and public realtions. 
There is still some doubt as to what major league team will claim this club. Talks were delayed due to the players' strike, but once that was resolved, the Staleys picked up dialogue with at least six major­league organizations. The an­nouncement is expected to come in the first half of next year. 
However, there is still slight op­position to the stadium plans from local citizens' groups who feel that public funds should not be utilized in this way. But a campaign led by Roos this summer to acquire signatures on a petition proved successful and a remonstrance (an opposing petition filed within 45 days with more signatures on it) seems highly unlikely. 
"I am 'very optimistic and ex­tremely pleased with the petition drive and the all-around positive support we have received from the South Bend community," reflects Staley. "I feel assured that we will be opening up in '87." 

Rose predicts he'll break record at home tonight in front of sellout 
A8sodated Press 
CINCINNATl · Pete Rose predicts he'll Set baseball's hit record today with a great leap into history rather than a small step. 
The Cincinnati Reds' player­manager resisted the temptation to take an unscheduled swing at his 4,192nd cat:eer hit last night, keeping himself on the bench in a 2­1 victory over the San Diego Padres. 
Instead, Rose chose to take his cut at topping Ty Cobb tonight before a sell-out crowd of more than 52,000 in Riverfront Stadium. He wants to end the season-long drama with a flourish. 
"Yeah, I think I'm going get a couple of hits tomorrow night." Rose said after Monday's game. ''I'm not going to try for a full house again Wednesday night." 
The crowd of .29.289 Monday night didn't want him to wait that long. 
Even before the game. fans were chanting, "Pete, Pete," in efforts to change his mind about sitting down against left-hander Dave Dravecky. They failed. 
Later, when right-hander Lance McCullers started warming up in the Padres' bullpen, the fans stood and implored Rose to reconsider. By the time Rose came out ofthe dugout in 
FEATURINC DIFFERENT NAnONAL COMEDIANS EVERY fiEDNESDA'f Ill 
the sixth inning over a disputed call at first base. the crowd was in a frenzy. 
"I wanted to protect my coach. plus I wanted to make an ap­pearance." Rose admitted. 
When several pinch-hitting op­portunities arose in the late innings. Rose considered taking up his familiar black bat but decided against it. Dave Concepcion won the game with a two-out single in the ninth, extending Rose's personal drama one more day. 
Low-key during his chase ofCobh this season. Rose said he's feeling the importance of the moment now. 
"It started up again tonight. just like yesterday." Rose said. n:fcrring to his two-hit day beti>rc a sup­portive crowu at Wrigk' Field in Chicago. "When the crowd gets into it like tonight. it relaxes you but it really turns you on." 
He said it was diftlcult not to oblige them. 
"I looked down. and I wao; sweat­ing," Rose said. "My arms were all wet. Every time they'd start cheer­ing, I went down to get a drink of 
Different clubs swing into action around campus as new year begins 
ByTOMYOON 
Sports Writer 
WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY: With the third week of school now beginning, the many athletic clubs of Notre Dame have begun their fall season. One such club is the women's cross country team which opens their season on September 14 at Hil­lsdale. Michigan at an invitational meet. 
Twenty women will go to the Hillsdale Invita­tional. but only the top seven scores of the day will count. Some of the top runners for Notre Dame will be senior Susan Wanchow, juniors Mary Ellen and Patty Mileski, and sophomores Julia Merkel, Kath­leen Lehman, and Nancy Louthlin. Mary Beth Fiske, also a senior, will not be able to run because of ten­donitis. but hopes to be practicing by next week. . 
In reviewing the upcoming season, Fiske, the presidenr ofthe dub. said. "I am looking forward to a very good season because we arc a very young team and should be very competitive in each of our five meets this cross country season. 
"In our meet at Hillsdale College this weekend, we will hl· nHnpeting against some \"Cry tough var­sity teams. Hopefully we will do very well in this meet. because our main goal is to attain varsity status. and if we have a good showing at Hillsdale against the conft·rencc we would join. maybe the administration will consider giving us varstiy status." 
GYM;\;ASTICS: With activities night completed, the gymnastics team is looking forward to a very good year. llowcver. the team has a small problem. All its equipment b at Saint Mary's. but without a faculty coach or a change in philosophy. Saint .\1ary's 
will not allow them to practice. 
Yoon f':: =y 
Tom ".-· /
Club Corner -;
.Wl/._ 
There needs to he a change in philosophy on the administration's part because it seems that Notre Dame's insurance will insure a graduate student as the coach. hut Saint Mary's insurance will not. There is a need to resolve the problem quickly because the interesting~ mnastics is growing. and with our good crop of freshmen. the returning of many talented gymna,ts from London and tht· improvement ofMatt Sennett amll'aul :\owak. the year look.' very promis­ing. 
\\'o\TFH I'< ll.( ): \\ ith the opening of the new pool this ( >ctoher. the water polo team is very optimistic about the upcoming year. With practice begining lao;t :\londa\. the team gets ready for its main season. which is in the falL Its tirst match will be this Friday against thl· r·ni\Trsity of :\lichigan. at Ann Arhor. 
In discussing the team's new season, Tom ()'Reily, president of till· cluh said. "Our team will be very compctiti\'l· this year because we did not lose anyone to graduation la.'t ~Tar. and we have all our starters had. inl'luding senior :\1ike Roberts and junior Stl'\T (,umlwr. our main ofknsivc men. · 
"The team looks pretty good. Also. with the addi­tion of the freshmen and graduatt• students. we will have H·ry good dqHh on the hl·nch. soml·thing we did not haH·last 'l'ar. And oncl· tht: new pool opens. hopefulh Wl' w1lllw ahle to hold a tournament here at ;\;otre Dallll' 
water: I didn't wam to hear that. By the seventh inning. I was hloated." 
Even Conn·pcion tried to talk Rose into a cameo hitting ap­pearance. 
"When tlwy hrought the right­handed pitcht-r in. I told Pete. Til come to hat. walk to the plate and call time out when I get there. Then I'll call li>r you to come to the plate. The crowd is going to grin with me.' " Concepcion said. 
RoSl' usnl a fnl·nul~ expkti,·c to decline. 
But just as he played himself unex­pectedly Sunday and got the record­tying hit when the Cubs changt·d starters. Hose wasn't ahovc letting game conditions put him in the hat­ter's box yestt·rday. 
l>aH· Parker was on Sl'Cond hase with the scurc llnl 1-1. two out and Concepcion niming to bat in the ninth. If thl· l'adn·s had decided to walk Concepuon. Rose might ha\ c put himst·ll in lor catcher Bo Diaz. 
"I wa' debating whctht·r to hit fi>r Bo." Host· said. "I was thinking they might put Davey on base. But now we'll never know. will we?" 
RENT BY SEMESTER 
Color TV • Microwave Ovens $70/semester $50I semester 
Color City 259-7661 
MID ~ EASTERN VEGETARIAN 
FOODS
•·...qe~a..-.....DYiww SHAWBaliA-MUOBDERA-BABA GHENOUJ 
HOMMUS-FELAFEL TEB80l!LI SAJ.AD SOUTH lEND • I..EBAJti,ESB STYLE 
• 
Pita S"'{fed SMdloidaa GVROS 

• 
CHlif"tful Prutri•• • Turlou" Coffr• 288-5639


tu•• -Sat 5:30PM · 9:30PM COMPLETE CATENNG FOR 838 Portage
PARTIES. BANQUET~ 

IOi.Discount for ND/SMC Students 


The Student Activities Board Announc~c\4 
s,se

~t::.Jt4,.tf. 1l~f,~HE RENOWNED HYPNOTIST WILL BE 
fJ CONDUCTING A Self-Awareness P.S.I. Workshop 
Wednesday, September 11 7-10 pm Engineering Auditorium cost-$20 at door 
~~~~~~s~ss~~~~~ssss~~~~~. __ 
Wbt l(ni!lltt& nftiltC!tastlt 
Men's Hair Styling at its finest 
(i ......... \.-minutes from campus 
--~ :l) Welcome Back Students! 

--< ~ 
' STUDENT SPECIAL 
$5 Haircut only 
277-1691 

Haircut, Shampoo
272-0312 
Blowdrv 
offer only applies to male patrons 
Hn: Tuea, Wed: 8:30-6:30 
s.633 T9ffQCe l:ane Thur, Frt: 8:30-8:30 
AcrOII from Martln'a Sat: 8:00-2:30 St. Rd. 23 CloaedMon. 

FOR 
"Between DaylightandBoonville" 
by Matt Williams 
5 roles for women 7:00pm 
3 roles for men Little theatre-Saint Mary's 

No experience necessary 000000000000000000100000000000000000 

'JI['~~C3l~------------------------------------------T.u.e.s.ct.ay•'•S•e•p-te.m
..b.er..l0•,•1•9·8•5··•p•a•g•e·l-l 

Bloom County 
The Daily Crossword 

Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
Through patience and training, Professor Carmichael believed he was one of the few scientists who could freely visit the Wakendas. 




ACROSS 1 Bear: Lat. 5 Unenthusiastic 9 At a distance 
13 Appears 15 Satanic 16 Abandoned by 
Its mother, 
as a lamb 17 Happening 18 River to the 
Colorado 19 Tobaccochew 20 Annulled 22 ·Baits 24 Swiss resort 
town 25 --tasse 26 Hypocritical 30 Species 34 N.B.word 35 Wargod 36 Slow In music 37 Burns' 
"-Mouse" 38 Pie­40 Haggard 
heroine 41 Organic compound 43 Before cast 
or port 44 Litigant 45 Relaxes 46 Audit men 48 Time periods 50 Bull: Sp. 51 Novelist 
Laurence 54 Oscilloscope 
pattern 58 Lacerated 59 Singing voice 61 Fireworks 
Ingredient 62 Volcano 63 Age suffix 64 Join 65 Film holder 66 Rabbit moves 67 Openings 
DOWN 1 Addict 2 Dream: Fr. 3 Leak slowly 4 Loss of memory 
Campus 
•4:30 P.M.. Biological Sciences Seminar, 
"Thermo Regulation in Moths", Dr. Berndt Heinrich, University of Vermont, Room 283 Galvin Life Sciences Center 
•S:OO 
P.M. · Dinner and first meetingof the Student Liason Committee for the Snite Museum, Snite Museum, Sponsored by Stu­dent Liason Committee of the Snite Museum, New members welcome 

•6:30 
P.M. · Academic, Notre Dame in Angers, France, Dr. Louis MacKenzie, Univer­sity of Notre Dame, Library Lounge, Sponsored by Foreign Study Programs 

•6:30 
P.M. ·Notre Dame Progressive Muaic Club Organizational Meeting, LaFortune Little Theater, Sponsored by Notre Dame Progressive Music Club 




Notre Dame 

(g)1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc 9/10/85
All Rights Reserved Roast Top Round of Beef Seafood Newburg
5 worsens Monday's Solution 
Toe Touchin Turkey Sandwich 6 Eager 7 Wire measure 8 Metal covering 9 Obtain 
10 Rural deity 
TV Tonight

11 Entrance 

Dinner Menus 

12 Radicals 14 Soil 6:00P.M. 21 Certain train 23 Easy movement 6:30P.M. 25 Instances 
of ruin 7:00P.M. 26 Between: pref. 27 Loop 28 Data: abbr. 29 Wing feather 
7:30P.M.

31 Follow 
8:00P.M.

32 Heaven 33 Active people 38 Fire crime 39 Evil influence 
8:30P.M.

42 Everlasting 51 End of gang 
9:00P.M.

44 Deceiving or mob 47 Peace 52 Lug personified 53 Sea bird 49 Under to poets 54 Pace 
16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
16 MASH 
22 Three's Company 
16 TheA-Team 
22 CBS Special Movie: "Kenny Rogers as The Gambler II" 28 Who's the Boss? 28 Three's A Crowd 16 Riptide 28 Moonlighting 34 NOVA: "Hawaii Crucible of Ufe" 
46 Blackwood Brothers 16 Remington Steele 
22 West 57th 
28 Ufe's Most Embarrassing Mo­ments 
•7:00 
P.M.· 9:00P.M.· Information Sesalon, Engineering Placement Night, Various Cor­porate Representatives, Texas Instruments, McDonnell Douglas Corp., and Arthur Ander­sen & Co., Memorial Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services 

•7:00 
P.M.· lnformadonal Meeting, Notre Dame/St. Mary's International Student Or­ganization, International Students Lounge, off the Chatauqua Ballroom, Sponsored by Notre Dame/St. Mary's International Student Or­ganization, Membership is open to all Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Students Interested In for­ming cross-cultural friendships 

•7:00 
P.M.· Informadonal Meeting, Social Concerns Seminar In Washington, D.C., Center for Social Concerns Coffee House, Sponsored by Center for Social Concerns 

•7:30 
P.M. · Price Waterhouse and the Academy Awards, Frank johnson, 122 Hayes­Healy, Sponsored by Beta Alpha Psi, All Welcome 


Saint Mary's Baked Pork Chops Spaghetti with Meat Sauce 
10:00 P.M. 
10:30P.M. 
ll:OOP.M. 11:30P.M. 
12:30A.M. 1:00A.M. 2:00A.M. 
Cheese Souffle Corn Dogs 
34  Great  Moment  With  National  
~ographics  
46  Lesca Alive  
16  NeW!JCenter 16  

22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 
46 Dwight Thompson 
16 Tonlght Show 
22 Masnum/McCloud 
28 ABC News Nightline 
28 Love Connection 
46 Praise the Lord 
16 Late Night with David letter­man 28 Children of the Broken Hearted 16 Allin the Family 22 Nightwatch 46 Independent Network News 


Tuesday, September 10, 1985 -page 12 
Special teams sport different look with many new players at positions 
The Observer/Pt"le Lacht"~ 

Senior setter Mary Mclaughlin (above) and the rest of the Notre Dame volleyball team meet Ohio State tonight in the ACC Arena at 
7:30 in a very importantmatchfor the Irish. The team will be trying to even its record at 1-1 after Friday night's opening match loss to Kentucky. Tonight's match will be the last Irish home date until October 11 when they meetButler. 
By NICK SCHRANTZ 
Sports Writer 
A long kick return for a touch­down. A blocked kick. A fake field goal. A punt snap that sails over the punter's head for a safety. These plays can quickly change the course ofa game, yet the participants are of­ten unknow'n members of the spe­cial teams. 
Despite their relative obscurity, the members of the special teams must perform their assignments with precision or else close games could easily be lost. These all impor­tant squads are composed of reserves looking to impress the coaches, along with proven veterans whose valuable skills are also needed on the specialty teams. 
The Irish special teams will be hard pressed to equal the consistent success of last year's squads, and the graduation of several key performers makes the job even har­der. 
According to assistant coach Mal Moore, whose duties also include the special teams. "Last year we were really sound on the special teams, especially with the kicking game." 
Mike Viracola completed his eligibility last season. ami his ver­satility and consistency will be missed. Viracola was the holder for field goal and conversion attempts, 
while  also  handling  the  punting  
duties with  a  39.4 yards  per punt  
average.  

Junior Dan Sorensen won the pun-

Jackson may be out for year 
ByJEFF BLUMB AND nia and a lack of appetite. He With <;~ career catches, .Jackson LARRY BURKE presently is undergoing tests for ranked as :'1/otre Dame's top return­Sports Writers weight loss and will continue to be ing receiver. He caught 28 passes for 
treated at Memorial Hospital in 36.3 yards and four touchdowns last Milt Jackson, a projected starter at South Bend for at least several more season. split end for the Irish football team weeks. 
Alvin Miller, a 6--l. 21 !-pound

and a three-time monogram-winner, "I don't think you can expect him junior. figures as the starter at splitis likely to be lost for the entire 1985 to come back and play football if he's end when the Irish take on .\lichigan 
season, according to Notre Dame as­missed this much school," added Saturday in Ann Arbor. He is return­sociate athletic director Roger Val-­John Heisler, associate sports in­ing to the lineup this season after sit­diserri. formation director. 
ting out most of the 'H--1 campaign

A 6-0, 180-pound senior from NCAA requirements hold that an Fairfield, Iowa, Jackson was hospi­athlete must he a full-time student with torn knee ligaments suffered on talized during the last week in for the fall semester in order to be the first play of the Michigan State August after complaining of insom-eligible for t<>otball. game. 
Progress on South Bend Class-A team stalled by bond issue problem 
ByTRISH SULLIVAN But despite the family interest in "We had come to South Bend in Sports Writer sports, this baseball franchise is the February and were terribly first athletic team Staley has become impressed with the community and Even though the college football involved with. the area," reflects Staley. "This town season is just around the corner, the is very interested in generating new 
"My wife and I were awarded the

talk of this town is still baseball. The forms of recreation and in getting
franchise this past year for a team in

city ofSouth Bend has been selected the community involved. I'm only
'87," explains Staley. "As primary

for the home of a single A minor sorry I didn't think ofit sooner." 
owners our job is to provide the

league baseball team, butcurrently a working capital for the organization, Proposals began to come in andbond issue stands in the way ofsome hire a general manager for the day­no time was wasted in draftinghomeruns and hot dogs in the to-day activities, and, ofcourse, find preliminary plans for a stadium. The
downtown area. 
a suitable location for the team. It is firm of Hellmuth, Obota and Kas­Bob Staley, the International extremelyexciting, and my wife and sabaum, along with Cole Associates,Marketing Manager at A.E. Staley 

I are enjoying every minute ofit."

Manufacturing Company in drew up blue-prints for a 5.500 seat DeCatur, Ill., and his wife Debby Finding a "home base" for the facility located in the southwest Staley are the primary owners of the team proved to be more difficult corner of downtown South Bend, 
team. Staley may be a well-known than expected. The first possibility across from the Union Railroad Sta­name to some Illinois natives, as Bob that came to the mind of these Il­tion. The southernmost border Staley's grandfather was the first or­linois natives was Champaign, Ill., would be South St., while the nor­
ganizer and owner of the DeCatur which is home to the University of Staley's, a football team that won a Illinois. But the Illini weren't too 
thern border would be a little north ofMonroe St. The east and west bor­

national championship in the productive in allowing their stadium 1920's. The elder Staley later sold to be used for the new farm team. 
ders would fall at Lafayette and the team to a sports enthusiast by Staley and his wife then came to Taylor streets, respectively. the name of George Halas and the South Bend for a look and were 
see BASEBALL, page 10

grldders became the Chicago Bears. pleased with what they found. 
ting job after a tine spring perfor­mance, but is being challenged by senior Hal Von Wyl and sophomore Vince Phelan. Inexperience could be a problem at this position as Von Wyl has only one punt in his career and the other two have no game ex­perience. Despite this fact. Moore has confidence in the three chal­lengers. 
"Sorensen has been the most con­sistent, and has done well with punting the hall quickly." said Moore. "Von Wyl has done fine, and Phelan has been hitting the ball con­sistently the last few days hut must still bring his time down." 
Starting quarterback Steve Beuer­lein takes over for \'iracola as the holder on field goal and extra point tries, while Von Wyl has also been working out at that position. The use of Beuerlein at holder gives op­ponents something more to worry about, as fake attempts give the Irish another threat to score. 
Its not often that a four-time monogram winnt·r remains relatively unknown. hut that's what happened to Kevin Kelly. Kelly graduated last year aftt·r serving fi>r four years as tht· long snapper on both punt and kick attempts. 
Linebacker Rick DiBernardo is the man slated to replace Kelly as the long snapper. This senior and three· time monogram winner sen·eo as Kelly's backup for sevnal years and has plenty of experience at the posi­tion. 
Junior guard Tom Freeman and senior center john Grieb have not seen any time at the long snapper position in the past. but are proving to be very adc:quate backups to DiBernardo. 
Moore acknowledges that the loss of Kelly hurts. but ft:els his replace­ments can step in and do the job ex­pected of them. 
"Kelly was a very competent and capable snapper during his four years," Moore explained. "However, Dibernardo has the experience after being the backup for a couple of years and has proven to be very capable." 

Except t(>r the loss ofJoe Howard, 
the rest of the: lrbh kickoff and punt 
returners have come: hack. Howard 
was the team's leading punt returner 
last year in terms ot yardage. and also 
ran back sevc:ral kickoff~. 

Hiawatha frandsco averaged .29.7 yards per return on kickoffs last year, including an HO yarder against Colorado. Junior Alonzo Jefferson also returns after a 198-l campaign which saw him rewrn I I kicks at a .20.H yard average.. Joining these two will be sophomore Tim Brown. freshman .\lark (,n-en. junior Alvin Miller and possibly Allen Pinkett. 
After Howard. Troy Wilson saw the most action at the punt returner position. The junior cornerback ran back II kicks at -.6 yards per return. Helping Wilson will he senior Pat Cusack. sophomore Reggie Ward, Brown and .\Iiiler. 
One problem li1r the: 19H<i special teams unit could h~ that many key members must also practice at their other positions. Tht~ loss of practice time could alt~r the: precision that is needed for these roles. In fact, the 19H4 unit could attribute part of its success to the: fact that important members like Kelly and \'iracola equid concentrate solely on their special skills. Moore commented on this as the unit prepared for its first test this Saturday. 
"Our units last year had the time to perten thc:ir assignmc:nts. The: timing between Kelly. Viracola, and john Carney was excellent as a result," stated Moore. 
Moore expressed some concern about the specialty teams this year, but overall remains positive. 
"We have a way to go because we're not as far as we hoped," Moore said. "We'll give this unit lots of at­tention this week and I think we'll make some progress." 

According to Moore, many col­lege games are won or lost because of the play of the specialty teams. Since the Irish's game with Michigan is expected to be close, look for the special teams unit to play a key role in the outcome. 





