
Curriculum changes -page 4 

VOL XIX, NO. 87 the independent ~tudent new~paper ~en ing notn dame and .~aint man··~ TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1985 

'Black President' performs in library 
By ANDRE TIIEISEN So now America has a new News Staff commander-in-chief, a former mayor and crisis manager and the 
The first black president of th(; first black president of the United United States held a press confer­States. ence in the library auditorium last Wilson approached the podium night, or so it seemed. surrounded by secret-service agents 
Dennis Rahiim Watson, an ener­(played by Notre Dame students), getic actor-comedian from New an American flag and "Hail to the York, presented a one-man play en­Chief' playing in the background. titled "First Black President of the His opening remarks combined United States." The play, part of the humor and emotion in suggesting Black Cultural Arts Festival, was a what was necessary for America's simulated press conference in future, a theme that coincided with which a newly-elected president that of the Black Cultural Arts made opening remarks and then an­Festival--"Pioneers: Looking Toward swered questions from the audience New Horizons." concerning his foreign, domestic The opening remarks were fol­and social policies. lowed by a question and answer ses­
The scenario for the play is as fol­sion. The questions were presented lows: "it is 1985, and an Indepen­by the approximately 50 people in dent dark horse candidate has pulled attendance, and the topics brought a phenomenal upset over both the up ranged from foreign policy to Democratic and Republican abortion and the deficit. Watson an­nominees, with support from a swered all the questions im­broad coalition of minority groups, promptu. unions, labor, blue collar dis­On the question of apartheid, 
Th~ Observer/Mary Flynn 

enchanted Democrats and Watson said he supports economic 
Dennis Rahiim Watson speaks aspartofhis one­States," which was performed last night in the Li­
Republicans," according to the pro­
man show the "First Black President ofthe United brary auditorium. Story at right.
gram. 
see PRESIDENT, page 4 

Academic Council discusses core curriculum changes 
By BOB VONDERHEIDE turing of the 13 required courses in student government's academic Discussion will continue at the thoroughly enthused about the dis­Edttor-tn-Cbtej the University core curriculum. commissioner. "But I don't see the next meeting ofthe Academic Coun­cussion," Lohman said. (Related story, page 4.) purpose of discussing it specifically. cil March 12. There are seven stu­The impact of the proposed cur­Amid cigarette butts and scraps of One of the major proposals of the Until we have a comprehensive dent representatives at the riculum on ROTC students, 
note paper, the academic future of report includes requiring two addi­picture, I don't feel it's worthwhile meetings, which are led by Father especially ROTC engineering stu­Notre Dame was discussed for two tional courses -one in fine arts or to discuss individual opinions on Theodore Hesburgh, University dents, was a major topic of discus­and a half hours yesterday in a literature and the other in history or specific issues." president. sion at the Academic Council's Dec. meeting that student representative a social science. Lohman, however, has issued a 1 0 meeting, which was also closed. 
"What this document is in the 
Bruce Lohman termed "super" and The new curriculum would also six-page report outlining student re­According to the minutes of the
most underlying sense," Lohman 
"stimulating." extend the time allowed to com­action somtimes favorable, meeting, "ROTC has indicated a
said, "is a statement by this Univer­
The afternoon session of the Aca­plete certain requirements and sometimes not -to the curriculum concern that the addition of two
sity ofwhat they feel is important in 
demic Council, which was closed to would condense the two semesters proposals. courses will require IS to 20 credit­
education. That's what a core curric­
observers, was the second ofits kind required in philosophy into a single And in the Feb. 1 edition of Notre hour overload for their students,
ulum is." 
as the powers-that-be of the Univer­yearlong course. Dame Report, published minutes of due to college requirements such as sity continued to haggle with a 17-The council is tackling the docu­the December meeting of the Aca­Transforming that philosophy those in engineering." page report ofproposed curriculum ment paragraph by paragraph and demic Council indicate that many is­into a consensus has been another A representative for Navy ROTC changes. has five more pages to go, Lohman sues are still far from being resolved. matter, Lohman said, and has said that students are "migrating 
The report, issued last spring by said. Because yesterday's meeting was created some "interesting" and from engineering to business" be-Associate Provost Father Edward "Discussion went both ways on closed, it is not known if further "fun" discussion. 

Malloy, outlines significant restruc-just about every issue," said Lohman, progress was made. 

Reagan's budget meets opposition 
Associated Press posed $30 billion hike in Pentagon to accept cuts in his defense pro­spending. posal, but said he hopes to lower 
WASHINGTON -Republicans GOP leader Robert Dole of deficits next year by 540 billion to and Democrats complained yester­Kansas proposed cutting Reagan's SSO billion, close to the president's day that President Reagan's newly defense increase in half, while Sen. goal of $51 billion. released budget for 1986 was too Mark Hatfield ofOregon, chairman generous to the Pentagon, but also of the Appropriations Committee, "This budget does not give us agreed the administration will win declared that a defense spending any solution to the deficit prob­at least some of its requested $39 freeze was the "absolute minimum lem," Hamilton said. "A tough billion in domestic spending cuts. requirement." budget-cutting on one-third of the 
Hatfield, among the budget's budget (and not on the other two­
House Majority Leader Jim sharpest critics, said Reagan had thirds) still does not get us to the Wright, D-Texas, predicted proposed a "fantasy budget con­promised land of a balanced Congress would approve "some ceived in the land of never-ending budget." variation" of the S974 billion plan deficits." that the president formally signed Democrats responded with The total of $39 billion in over in a White House ceremony, some of their sharpest criticism domestic cuts includes ending the but even Republicans edged away since Reagan won re-election last $4.6 billion revenue sharing pro­from embracing the president's November in a 49-state landslide. gram to local governments; impos­
proposals in their entirety. House Speaker Thomas O'Neill ing larger costs on the users of 
House Minority Leader Robert Jr., D-Mass., said Reagan's proposal Medicare; eliminating the federal Michel, R-Ill., described Reagan's "takes the pain of budget cutting subsidy for Amtrak; cutting the pay plan as a "starting point," and said, directly to Middle America," but of federal workers by 5 percent "I do not endorse every recom­said it would receive "serious con­and making deep cuts in farm and 
mendation." sideration" in Congress. education programs. The Small 
In the Senate, majority Rep. William Gray, D-Pa., chair­Business Administration would be Republicans repeated their vow to man of the House Budget abolished, as would the Job Corps seek cuts In the president's pro-Committee, also called on Reagan and the Legal Services Corp. 
see CURRICULUM, page 4 

"Hesburgh said he was 

Financial Forum hosts major airline executive 
ByMARK E. WINTERS "A key to survival will be the abil­News Staff ity to take advantage ofnew technol­ogy," said Rothmeier. He pointed 
"Northwest is not afraid to take on out that substitution ofa Boeing 75 7 any competitor who challenges us in for a DC-1 0, on one route, would our own backyard," said Steven save SI0.4 million per year. Rothmeier, chief executive officer 
While Rothmeier outlined financ­

ofNorthwest Airlines, in yesterday's ing strategies for airline survival, he opening lecture of the 27th annual said, "The real key is execution in Finance Forum. 
carrying out strategies."

Rothmeier addressed the recent challenge oflow cost airlines such as One particularly strong impedi­People Express. Once People Ex­ment to Northwest's own strategy press entered the Minneapolis­execution is union workers. 95 per­St.Paul to Newark route, Northwest cent ofall Northwest employees are immediately undercut its price and union members, which puts added new service. With Northwest at a disadvantage when Northwest's superior position in the competing against such non­market, Rothmeier said, "We canlast unionized airlines as Delta and Mid­longer than People Express". way. 
Rothmeier, a 1968 graduate of "In labor negotiations we ask for a Notre Dame, and the youngest chief dollar's worth of work for a dollar's executive of a major U.S. airline, worth of pay ... we're not afraid to based his lecture on strategies for absorb a strike." Northwest was hit survival in an era ofderegulation. by such a strike in 1982. 
The Observer 


In Brief 

The Official Soviet news agency Tass said 
Monday the Reagan administration's proposed military budget heralds a weapons build-up that will complicate U.S.-Soviet arms talks scheduled to open next month in Geneva. It carried three sepa· rate articles critical of the U.S. budget for fiscal 1986, including an attack on Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger. Tass said his report outlining America's military spending showed he was intent on es­tablishing superiority over the Soviets. In its article on Weinberger's report on U.S. weapons needs, Tass said he used "the cliche refer­ence to a mythical Soviet military threat" to justify more arms spend­ing. ·AP 
1breeYugoslaviandissidentsaccused ofpoliti­
cal crimes were convicted Monday on a reduced charge and given light prison sentences. The outcome of the widely publicized trial vvas seen as a setbackfor the Communist leadership's hardliners. The sentences ranged from one to two years on a charge that carries a maximum term of 10 years. The defendants said the convictions on charges ofspreading "hostile propaganda" were a political act with­out evidence, and that they would go on hunger strike ifsent to jail.­AP 
Researchers have found a way to track a 
hormone found in nerve cells, a development they believe will give them a tool in understanding and fighting Lou Gehrig's disease. Re­searchers don't know what causes the disease, but a discovery by doctors at the University of Cincinnati Medical Center and Indiana University is considered a big step forward in tracing its effects and possibly developing a treatment. The doctors have found an an­tibody that detects a hormone apparently affected by the disease. ­AP 
Of Interest 

"A Otanging Industry:The Community Banker's Perspective" is the topic of the first lecture on today's agenda ofthe 27th annual Finance Forum sponsored by the Notre Dame Finance Club. At 4 this afternoon John Moore, chairman and chief executive officer of the Beach Bank of Vero Beach will speak in the Hayes­Healy Auditorium. Moore, a University graduate, is actively involved in the policy and legislative efforts ofthe American Bankers Associa­tion as vice chairman of the "Safety and Soundness" oversight group. 
-The Observer 

President and OtiefFinancial Officer 
of Citizens and Southern Georgia Corporation John Poelker will present the second speech of the Finance Forum today. At 7:30 this evening Poelker will speak on "A Changing Industry: The Regional Banks' Perspective" in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium. This alumnus of Notre Dame has played a key role in the recent growth ofC & S as it strives to become a financial services center for the Southeast. -The Observer 
The Kei1h Berger "Mhne Over Matter" 
show which was to be held at Saint Mary's Friday, Jan. 25, but was postponed due to snow, is rescheduled for 8 p.m., Saturday, Feb. 9, in O'Laughlin Auditorium. Tickets are still available for the mime art­ist's performance. Tickets are S2 for students and S4 general admis­sion, and may be reserved by calling Saint Mary's Ticket Office at 284-4626. Tickets for the Jan. 25 performance may be used for the Feb. 9 show or exchanged for a refund. 
-The Observer 


VVeather , 
More snowis atmost a given for today with a 90 percent chance of the white stuff for today. The highs will be from 20 to 25. Tonight there is a 60 percent chance ofsnow with lows from 10 to 1 5, and a 20 percent chance of light snow tomorrow with highs from 20 to 25. -AP 

The Observer 
lbe Observer ( U~l'S 599 2-4000) i• 
published Monday through Friday and 
on home football Saturdays, except 
during exam and vacation periods. The 
Observer is published by the student• of 
the University of Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may be: 
purchased for $30 per year ( $20 per se· 
mester) by writing lbe Observer, P.O. 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a mc:mber of The 
Assodatrd Press. All reproduction 
rights are reserved. 

Design Editor.............................. Paul Bruce Design AsslstQnt .................... Chris Bowler Layout Staff........... Alice Kroeger. Melissa Warnke. Becky Gunderman, Jane Alice 
Reidford Typesetters..... Mary Ellen Harrington and 
Vido Guarino News Edltor............................... Mark Potter Copy Edltor .. Keith Harrison, Frank Lopo Sports Copy Editor.................. Mary Seiger VIewpoint Layout ..................... Paul Bruce Features Copy Editor............ Teresa Keefe Features Layout ............. Catherine Coffey ND Day Editor .................. Barbara Stevens Ad Deslgn .. Anne Marie Furleigh and Usa 
Dickinson Pbotograpber............................. Mary Flynn 
Tuesday, February S, 1985 -page 2 


College students susceptible during the 'cold and flu season' 
What is as much a part ofcollege life as e"ams, papers, parties and (for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students) parietals? 
The answer is sickness. Whether a simple cold, the flu or something more serious, many students are faced with an illness which hampers all areas of a student's life, from studies to social life. And at this time of year, during the height of"cold and flu season," everyone is susceptible. 
I am not talking about the Black Plague or serious illness. Colds and flus are not very serious in the long run and we must deal with these minor illnesses for the rest ofour lives as we have dealt with them in the past. Yet the deadlines, lack ofsleep, communal living condi­tions, etc. of college life amplify our small illnesses and make us more run-down. We find ourselves backed into a corner. Not only our studies but also other aspects of our lives suffer. 
There are many reasons that students are especially likely to catch the flu bug. A lack of sleep is one obvious factor. No matter how well-

Frank Lipo Copy Editor 

quick recovery. Preferably bed rest. 
The dilemma once again rears its ugly head. A few days of complete bed rest would do more than any medication. Yet as is the case with many students, I have enough obligations to keep me going despite my body's protestations. The flu just complicates things. 
I will try to avoid coughing on anyone or sharing a cup or can of soda. My caution might prevent a few people from getting the bug. Yet I'm certain someone will get the flu indirectly through me. After all, I got it 
from someone.... 
It would be ridiculous to 
hope for the situation to be 

planned the average stu­different than it is. The col­dent's schedule is, there will lege environment will al­always be those nights (and ways be an ideal one for the early mornings) when spread of colds and flus. studying, work or some With this weather, as the other responsibility first wave of exams and demands cutting back on papers is upon us and we sleep, the variable in any stu­take extra time to study and dent's schedule. therefore sleep less, our Dorm life is a breeding bodies will pay the price. ground for assorted viruses I will force myself to get and germs. Our friends in more sleep than usual and our dorm share so much of hopefully get well very our lives. We, in turn, share quickly. It is much easier to their lives. While I value this lake care of myself when I'm sharing, there is something actually sick than it would 

in the miserable nature of a sore throat, a congested nose or a fever which encourages a withdrawn attitude. We may sympathize with our sick friends and they may sympathize with us when we·are feeling poorly but only a masochist wants to share the discomfort of a cold or flu. 
Yet despite any precautions we may take, one sick student soon becomes five or six. It is the few with espe­cially high resistance or good luck who are able to stay healthy. 
The flu bug is alive and well among my friends, despite our precautions. We are valiantly fighting. Un­fortunately the microbes are on the offensive. 
Yesterday I went to the Student Health Center. I had exhausted all of my home remedies. It was time to let the professionals take over. 
After a typical wait, I was examined by the doctor. His diagnosis was that I have influenza. He gave me medica­tion to be taken at intervals during the day anu assured me I would soon be well. He said rest would lead to a he if I was just anticipating 
becoming sick. I always re­member after the fact the truism: "an ounce ofpreven­tion is worth a pound of cure." 
I'm becoming quickly exhausted and sleep looks inviting. After I do a little more work Ishould be ready for bed. Unless something else comes up. 
So here's a toast for anyone feeling under the wea­ther. Pop your vitamin C tablet, lift your orange juice glass high and remember humanity is mightier than the microbe. 
Th~: Observer encourages c.hc free cxprcs..o;lon oropinions through letters to lhc editor. Utters should lx brief(approximatdy 2SO words) and t)'P('d whenever possible, All letters should be ~igm:d (although the author's name need not be published), and should include a phone number al which the aulhor may be reached. Lcncrs arc pubUshed on a space-available ba.'\is. ~t­Iers arc edited to correct errors in grammar and for span· consideration."". 

SAVES BABIES 
HELP FIGHT 

dp
BIRTH DEFECTS 

Take the Skiiers Express t 
[i]st::i

t~:u•••••••slnn·u 

$2900 BUS and LIFT TICKETS Rental $8.00 extra 
Convenient Departure points and dates 
FEBRUARY 10,1985 
FEBRUARY 24, 1985 


7:15am Osceola 7:45am 1st Source Center 8:00am .Notre Dame 
~source
..:Travel 
P.O. Box 1602 South Bend. IN 46634 219/236-2656 


Show ND or SMC student or staffID and get a 10% discount 
18061 State Road 23 
Near Ironwood South Bend, Indiana 46637 

What are the characteristics ofHigh Achievers? 

How do I translate a vision of success into reality? 
Counseling & Psychological Services Center 
ROOM300 
WED., FEB 6th 

6:30 ·8:30p.m. 

Call Ahead .... Enrollment Limited .... Sign Up Now 

The Observer 







251 accused in Italian 'trial of the century' 
Associated Press 
Naples, Italy -The trial of 251 suspected Camorra gang members and their alleged accomplices -in· eluding a nun and a priest -began yesterday with police sharpshooters on guard and the defendants incar· cerated in 20 cages in the court­room. 
.Extraordinary security measures were in effect in and around Naples' Poggioreale Prison, where a win­dowless courtroom WaS built for the trial, which court officials called Italy's largest criminal proceeding ever. 
Bomb-detecting dogs patrolled inner hallways and police sharpshooters were posted on roof­tops of buildings ringing the prison. Helicopters hovered over the area and lawyers and reporters were searched at the prison's gate. 
To protect admitted mobsters turned police informers, authorities beefed up prison security with an additional 800-man force. Two of the 20 courtroom cages were reserved for the gangsters who turned state's evidence, known as "pentiti." 
Yesterday's court session, dubbed "the trial of the century" by Neapolitan newspapers, is the first of three for 640 suspects arrested in the June 17, 1983, crackdown on the Nuova Camorra Organizzata. 
All defendants are charged with criminal association, a catch-all charge used to prosecute suspected gangsters. Some are also charged with drug trafficking and extortion, and some could be sentenced to life in prison if convicted. 
Only 153 of the defendants were present at yesterday's two-hour ses­sion. In Italy, defendants are not re­quired to attend their trials, but those who came were put in cages to prevent them from brawling amongst themselves. 
Some of the defendants screamed obscenities as they were led into the cages made of thick metal bars with spaces in between big enough for them to stick tlieir heads out. The prisoners can stand and walk in the cages, which are big enough to hold 1 5 to 20 people. 
The first day was spent hearing a variety of motions from defense at­torneys. The trial was adjourned un­til Thursday, and many of the defendants were returned to jail, where they are being held by aut­horities. 
Police say the Nuova Camorra Or­ganizzata is a major faction of the Naples underworld led by reputed crime kingpin Raffaele Cutolo, 42, who is now in jail. 
Authorities say the Camorra makes most ofits money from extor­tion, cigarette and drug smugglingin Italy. It is not considered as power­ful as the Sicilian Mafia, but has influ­ence throughout Italy and is reportedly involved in cocaine traf­ficking in South America. 
Cutolo has spent more than half his life in prison and is now serving a 10-year term on the island prison of Asinara for charges ranging from drug smuggling to extortion. Police claim he has been running crime operations from his cell. 
One of the accused, Sister Adina Murelli, 57, ofthe Naples convent of the Daughters ofthe Precious Blood, told reporters she had exchanged letters with Cutolo because she wanted "to save his soul." 
Police sources have said the let­ters contained coded messages from Cutolo to his followers. 
Tuesday, February 5, 1985-page 3 

The Observer/Dan McCuUougb


Victory Celebration 
Students show their support for the victorious greet the team. Approximately 1,000studentsanda Notre Dame men's basketball team by showing up make-shiftbandshowedupfor the celebration that at the Main Circle at 2:50 yesterday morning to turned into an impromptupep rally. 


Red Army launches new offensive 
Associated Press 
Bonn, West Germany-For more than a decade, the anarchist Red Army Faction terrorized Western Europe, emerging from under­ground hideouts to murder busines­smen and government officials and bomb U.S. Army bases. 
Now the shadowy terrorist group, largely dormant in the past four years, has launched a new offensive in its war against West German capitalism and U.S. "imperialism." 
The latest victim was prominent industrialist Ernst Zimmermann, 55, chairman of West Germany's giant 
THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
THE LEADER IN ENTERTAINMENT 
Presents ... 



MARDI GRAS 
FRIDAY: DANCE-A-THON 
Stepan Center -6 p.m. -6 a.m. $2 ticket admission is raffle chance on 
Free Trip to New Orleans 
for the real Mardi Gras! 6-8: Big Twist & Mellow Fellows 

Jazz Band from Chi-Town 
9-1: Rock with the Danger Bros. 
1 -6: D.J. SATURDAY: Airband & Talent Contest 8:00-South Dining Hall $1.50 Admission, judged by audience appreciation 
$100°° First Prize in each Contest 
MTU ·turbine works, who was shot and critically wounded Friday at his home outside Munich by a man and a woman armed with machine pis­tols. 
Federal investigators blamed the attack on the Red Army Faction, which had vowed to assassinate prominent West German figures in connection with a two-month hunger strike by imprisoned gang members. 
Thirty jailed Red Army Faction members and nine sympathizers began a protest fast in several West German prisons in early December, demanding to be housed together and treated as political prisoners. 
Since then, nearly 60 bomb and arson attacks have been directed against American, French and West German interests across the country, the Bonn Interior Ministry said, with more than 30 linked to Red Army activists. 
Five jailed gang members, includ­ing second-generation leaders Christian Klar and Brigitte Mohnhaupt, have abandoned the hunger strike, but several of those still fasting are in deteriorating health. German officials believe a death would trigger new violence. 
"We must be prepared for further terrorist attacks," Interior Minister Friedrich Zimmerman recently told a parliamentary committee on se. curity. 
The Red Army Faction, originally known as the Baader-Meinhof gang, was spawned in radical student circles in the late 1960s; its declared aim was to overthrow the West Ger­man state and expel American mili­tary and business interests from Europe. 
The gang developed into a ruth­less, efficient cadre who claimed re­sponsibility for 30 political slayings and scores of bombings and bank robberies.
, 



I \I
I ~ .
I Scholastic Magazine 1 will be accepting applications for* I 1I Editor-in-Chief. 1 

I ******************* I
1 Applications available Monday, 2 I 4 I 85 II in the Student Activities office. I 

I *************************** I 
Applications due Friday, 2 I 8 I 85 1I in the same office.ie 1 
\ J 
Last month, the Red Army Faction announced a "military" alliance with Direct Action, the French urban guerilla group that claimed respon­sibility for the Jan. 25 assassination of Paris Defense Ministry official Rene Audran. 
The two terrorist groups said in a letter to Paris-based news organiza­tions that they would fight NATO and other "imperialist" institutions in Western Europe. 
But Bonn officials said that the Red Army Faction, while still a threat, is not as strong as it was throughout much of the 1970s, nor does itenjoy significantpopular sup­port. 
"There is no real sympathy for these people today," Interior Mini­stry spokesman Hans-Guenther Kowalski said. 
Officials say the two-month hunger strike is an attempt by the Red Army's "hard core" to recruit new members. 
Some of the hunger strikers are being force-fed to keep them alive. But the measure is so controversial that the West German parliament recently decided to halt force­feeding unless a prisoner loses con­sciousness. . 
Government security officials say the Red Army Faction's active sym­pathizers -those who can be counted on to smuggle messages out ofprisons or house terrorists on the run -number between 100 and 150 people. 
Between 20 and 30 active Red Army terrorists are still believed to be at large, according to Kowalski. 
Kowalski acknowledged some wanted Red Army suspects are "second-generation terrorists," or those too young to have been active in the early 1970s. 
"They have an ability to attract some new members, but it is a very weak and limited ability," he said.
, 

~·-----------~------c: 
Tuesday, February 5, 1985-page 4 
The Observer 




Curriculum may alter 
By BOB VONDERHEIDE 
Edltor·ln·Cblef 
After a year of study, the ad hoc University Curriculum Committee last spring issued a 17-page analysis of the University core curriculum, proposing in some cases substantial changes in the current structure. 
llle University's core curriculum includes 13 courses, most of which are completed in the freshman year. Requirements of the individual col­leges are not part of the University curriculum and were not studied by the curriculum committee. 
The report of the curriculum committee is now in the hands ofthe Academic Council, which has dis­cussed the proposals twice includ· ing discussion at a meeting yesterday. (Related story, page 1.) 
After the council approves the report or makes amendments to it, the proposals wiii be voted upon by Notre Dame's Board ofTrustees. 
In its simplest formulations, the present University requirements and proposed changes are as fol­lows: 
•Composition and Literature and Freshman Seminar, one se­mester each, satisfied l'n the fresh· man year. No change was recommended for this requirement. 

Curriculum 
continuedfrom page 1 
cause the curriculum is overloaded 
already "despite the fact that the 
Navy needs engineers." 
Dean of Engineering Roger Schmitz argued, however, that "in a certain sense the overload does not work too great a difficulty since ROTC students, due to their finan· cial advantages, need not have a part-time job," according to the minutes report. 
At Hesburgh's suggestion, a sub­committee was established to come back to the council with a solution to the ROTC problem. 
On another matter, Dean of Sci­ence Francis Castellino argued that "students need more than one sci­ence course." The minutes also report that Castellino told the group that a language requirement is more important than the proposed re­quirement in the fine arts or literature. 
Hesburgh, according to the minutes, said that "the University should not waste valuable time on elementary language courses." Stu· dents, he said, were fully able to learn a language on their own. 
Schmitz "voiced his surprise that the proposed curriculum did not carry greater science and mathema­tics requirements," the minutes report. Castellino was asked if his college could offer more science courses to Arts and Letters students, and he "responded in the affirma­tive, and suggested a life science course." 
The proposed curriculum would retain the two-course requirement in math, but would allow students in Business and Arts and Letters two years to meet it. 
According to the minutes, "the mathematics department felt that the two courses should be taken in consecutive semesters for the pur· pose of continuity and student en­thusi~m. a sentiment which the Business College agreed." 
Music professor Calvin Bower "stressed that in allowing two years for the math requirement, the com­mittee's objective was flexibility." 
"Pedagogically, however, is it wise?" the minutes report. "The mathematics department says no." 
Correction 
Because of an editing error, Father William Beauchamp was incorrectly identified in a cutline in yesterday's issue ofThe Observer. Beauchamp is the executive assistant to the presi­dent. 
•Physical 
Educadon or ROTC. two ~emesters. usually satisfied during the trc~hman year. No change was recommended. 

•Mathematics, 
two semesters, satisfied during freshman year. The report proposes allowing Business and Arts and Letters students until the end of the sophomore year to complete this requirement. 

•Natural 
Science, two semesters, normally satisfied during the fresh­man year. The new curriculum would allow students until the end of the second year to complete this requirement. 

•
History or Social Science, one se­mester. The new curriculum would require two semesters. 

•Philosophy, 
two semesters, com· pleted before graduation. The new curriculum would condense this re· quirement into a single, yearlong course to be taken before the end of the sophomore year. 

•Theology, 
two semesters, com· pleted before graduation. The new curriculum would require the first course to concentrate on scripture and the first five centuries of the Church. The second course would focus systematically on doctrinal themes. • 

•Fine 
Arts or Literature. This would become a new one-semester requirement. 




President 
contin_uedjrom page 1 
sanctions against South Africa and declared that he has sent South African President P.K. Botha a telegram saying only "shape up or ship out." 
In dealings with Central America, he said his administration intends to treat people as human beings -not foreigners. 
He plans to develop "a human policy, not a foreign policy." His general attitude about Latin America is that "the days of meddling in our neighbors internal affairs are over." He announced that Jesse Jackson will be his secretary of state, which brought applause from the audi· ence. 
On the issue of dealing with the Soviets, Watson said, "I oppose the isolationist attitude of my predeces­sors." He plans to be in close com­munication with Chernenko, and believes he can cut the defense budget by 25 percent without decreasing America's strength. 
He then began singing a humorous rendition of the song "War," encouraging the audience to clap their hands and join in. 
Economic depression among blacks in the United States could be decreased, according to Watson, if they remember that the black com­munity is a powerful economic mar­
.......................................... 
GET INVOLVED: 
The Student Activities Board 
The Leader in Entertainment 
Is Looking For: 

THE 1985-86 BOARD MANAGER CONTROLLER GENERAL/BUSINESS MNGR. 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT: THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD OFFICES (2nd FLOOR of LAFORTUNE) 
ket. By skillfully handling their economic power, Watson believes blacks can bring about meaningful changes. 
To deal with unemployment among youth he proposed that un· employed youth be "put to work in urban centers where they live." 
Concerfling crime, Watson declared that his administration will not support actions like those of Bernhard Goetz. "We cannot tolerate individuals taking the law into their own hands," he said. He is also opposed to capital punishment, claiming that "those without the capital usually get the punishment." 
As far as women's issues, he sup­ports the Equal Rights Amendment and affirmative action, and is opposed to federal aid for abortions and abortion clinics. "All life deserves a chance to make it," he said. 
Watson also promised to appoint more women and minorities to meaningful positions than all previ­ous administrations combined. 
The new President concluded the press conference by declaring that we can make the world a better place by working together. 
The mock press conference was followed by a small reception. 
Watson got the inspiration for his play, which he wrote, directed and performed himself, from his political science background, debate skills and extensive reading on current is­sues. He was educated at Fordham, Pace and New York Universities. 
He was named "Outstanding 

Young Man ofAmerica" in 1982 and 
was awarded both the Avon Youth 
Award from the National Black Lead· 
ership Roundtable and the Youth 
Award '84 from congressman Walter 
Fauntroy. 
Watson is also the author of five 

books and has appeared on a black 
soap opera. He is currently touring 
the country, performing his play for 
college audiences and civic groups. 
The reason for his play, he said, is to show college students that they must he politically aware and able to think on their feet." His message to today's college students is that they have a "responsibility to make a dif· ference in America, to get beyond petty politics of race, class, religion and social status ~nd get on with brotherhood, respect, business and ethnic tolerance." 
The challenge of the 80's, accor­ding to Watson, is "to be bold, inno­vative and daring in dealing with race, religion, justice and equality. Like Captain Kirk of "Star Trek," we must go where no man has gone before, and do things no man has done before to survive the current nuclear madness. 
"The unborn of the world are waiting on you and me to get our acts together for a safer world." 
Watson's play was the second event of the Black Cultural Arts Fes­tival, which runs from February 3 through March 2. 

e 





ave 1 •• 
··' With Thursday's issue, you will have the chance to do more than just tell your friends how you like The Observer. You will be able to tell us. Inserted into the issue will be the 1985 Observer Readership Survey, the greatest attempt to determine your needs since the newspaper was founded 18 years ago. 
We'll ask you how we've been covering news, sports, opinion and entertainment on campus. We'll ask you if you like more of this, or less of that. And best of all, it should only take five minutes to complete. 
So, on Thursday, take the time to help The Observer. Let us have it, and we'llletyou have it--the best possible daily newspaper. 
-------~----· -­

--~-----------­
The Observer Tuesday, February 5, 1985-page 5 


Religious Approval Board debated 
By MIKE MRLEN As stated in DuLac, the administra­"We need to bring into focus all SeniorStaffReporter tion only prohibits religious groups the rhetoric. The way it is now, it is a which proselytize, or actively con­narrow process," for admitting or 
In a move designed to widen the vert, students. Wurth said Campus denying religious groups recogni­current "narrow review process" Crusade does not support "door-to­tion, he said. given to religious groups, the Stu­door" converting, adding "ifa group Recognition as an official organi­dent Senate ·yesterday approved a wants to have a faith sharing" and zation allows certain privileges, resolution urging the creation of a some students attend a meeting, that including the right to use campus Religious Board ofApproval. is not proselytizing. buildings, to apply for funds from 
The proposed commission, which "You can't say 'they (Campus student gpvernment, and to set up a still must be approved by the Crusade) are so high on Jesus that booth at student activities night, Campus Life Council andVice Presi­people might stop going to mass,' " Wurth said. dent for Student Affairs Father David and use that to revoke their status, Student Senator Paul Healy, who Tyson, would be al:lle to recognize he explained. cast one of the two dissenting votes, campus groups as official student ac­He said the administration's posi­was against the measure because "I tivities. tion is "they will allow you to talk, believe that Notre Dame is a Catho­
It would consist of members of but they won't recognize" you, add­lic university and that's why I came the Theology department, the Office ing that the administration's here." of Student Affairs, University Mini­recognition does not mean they A recommendation which would stries and Student Government. embrace the philosophy of the require graduate and law students to 
· The Office of Student Affairs group. pay an Observer fee equal to those of denied the interdenominational reli-According to Wurth, Campus undergraduates at Notre Dame and . gious group Campus Crusade for Crusade for Christ told Director of Saint Mary's unanimously passed. Christ the right to exist as a University Ministry Father Daniel Sponsored by Student SenatorJavier recognized student activity after Jenky that he was free to come in Oliva, the measure was proposed in seven years of on-campus req>gni­and observe this meeting. "the principle that some people are tion, according to Executive Coord­paying and some aren't. In the inter­
The resolution was not designed

inator Doug Wurth. est of fairness, all students should 
to be a "statement about Campus pay," Oliva said. "There is no doubt"It is my belief that the decison Crusade, but more of a test" for the in my mind that they are reading it,"was in error," he said. university's policy, Wurth said. 

he added. If implemented, the proposal could lower the Observer fee for un­
dergraduates, said Observer Editor­in-Chief Bob Vonderheide. Student Associated Press mentator and newspaper columnist, An official announcement of their H.R. Haldeman, in his book, "The Activities Board Manager Kevin as chiefofWhite House communica­appointments was expected soon, Ends of Powers," wrote that, "The McGovern agreed the measure was 
WASHINGTON President tions, in charge of speech-writing, the sources said. concept of Agnew's inflammatory needed, saying "it's not fair to us Reagan plans to recall to duty three media planning and perhaps other The appointments will be the first speeches against the Eastern 'elite' (the undergradutes) that they (the veteran political operatives with areas. major personnel moves under the center in New York and Washing­graduate and law students) derive roots in the Nixon administration •Edward Rollins, director of the command of Donald Regan, sworn ton, which controlled communica­the benefit" without paying for it. for key White House assignments in president's I984 re-election cam­in yesterday as the new White House tions in this ~ountry, came right Student Senator Dan McNamara communications, lobbying and paign, as head of an office handling chiefofstaff from the Oval Office. The speeches reported the status of late night politics, sources said yesterday. intergovernmental relations be­Buchanan, a favorite of hardline were written mostly by Patrick Buc­study space in the South Dining 
The sources, insisting on tween Washington and state and conservatives, is best known in hanan, Nixon's most hard-line Hall's faculty dining room. The room anonymity, said Reagan would local governments. Washington for tough speeches he speech writer." will be open II p.m. to 3 a.m. Sunday name: •Max Friedersdorf, the White wrote in I969 for then-Vice Presi­John Dean, the White House through Thursday, starting next Sun­

Reagan plans to bring back Nixon operatives 
•Patrick Buchanan, one-time House's chiefcongressional lobbyist dent Spiro Agnew attacking the counsel to Richard Nixon, credits day. McNamara said the administra­speechwriter in the Nixon adminis­in the first year of Reagan's adminis­news media. Buchanan with popularizing the tion is "paying for security and tration and now a television com-tration, to a similar position again. Former White House chiefofstaff term "political hardball." "lamps that can be taken in and out." 
CONFUSED?? .Are you bewildered by the Spring Break trips offered?? The Student Activities Board THE LEADER IN ENTERTAINMENT IS YOUR ANSWER!! RELAX ...we've done this before: Ft. Lauderdale * * Daytona Beach $299 $199 I • Free refreshments on bus • Free Refreshments on Bus • Free Parties • St. Patrick's Day Celebration • Sf. Patrick's Celebration • Optional trips to Walt Disney World, • White Sox Baseball Epcot Center • Afternoon Boat Excursion • Sun and Fun • DePaui-Northwestern Parties • Free Parties • At the Sheraton Yankee Trader • At the Plaza Hotel INFORMATIONAL MEETING: 7:00p.m.-THURSDAY, FEB. 7th Lafortune liHie Theater OR CALL: 239-7757 (the S.A.B.) Sign Ups at Record Store-$75 deposit  


------~--~-----·­
~--­
The Observer Tuesday, February 5, 1985 -page 6 
When: Thurs, Feb. 7 at 7:00 Where: South Dining Hall, Faculty Dining Room 
*Free snacks and beverages 
*Tutors on hand to answer questions *Free mock-MCAT exams given 
Join us/oran Informal reception to leam more about tlae .MCATExam and tlae Stanley Kaplan Program. 


ENGINEER~i'. r-·H-,

~...-' ~Q, 
February 19 

SUNDSTRAND ON CAMPUS 
Sundstrand, a leading technology-based company, is involved in the design, manufacture and sale of advanced electrical and mechanical aerospace systems for commercial and military jet aircraft as well as missiles and space applications. 
Sundstrand is a Fortune 500 company headquartered in Rockford, Illinois with annual sales of about $1 billion. We have manufacturing and service locations worldwide and use state-of-the-art technologies to design, manufacture and deliver our products. 
We offer a competitive salary, a solid benefit package including health and dental, an educational reimbursement program and a liberal holiday schedule. Investigate the engineering opportunities for you! 

Sundstrand Corporation 4747 Harrison Avenue P.O. Box 7002 Rockford, IL 61125-7002 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
Young boy withstands wind chill of 65 below 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE -A 2S-month-old boy who came back from the dead with ice in his blood is certain to end up in medical textbooks, doctors say. · 
A search of medical literatun: has found no case of anyone surviving with a body temperature colder than the boy's 60 degrees. 
But yesterday, Michael Troche had not only survived but was thriv· ing. 
Two weeks ago, the boy was so 
severely frozen after wandering 
away from his home in a tempera­
ture of 20 below zero that ice had 
formed beneath his skin and he ap­
peared clinically dead. Doctors said 
he had been out..~ide between 30 and 
3S minutes when he was found. 
Yesterday, he was alert, playful and eager for his two favorite things, "gum and popcorn," said his mother, Judy Troche. 
After he was found frozen, doctors connected him to a heart-lung ma­chine to warm his blood and cut open his arms and legs to allow tissues to expand. 
"What's been learned from Mi­chael is going to add a lot to the wealth of knowledge about hypot· hermia," said a spokesman for Mil­waukee Children's Hospital, where 

U.S. denied port access 
Assodated Press 
WELLINGTON, New Zealand · New Zealand yesterday refused a second U.S. request to let an Ameri­can warship make a port call. Prime Minister David Lange said he will ad­mit no ship without assurance that it does not carry nuclear weapons, which the United States refuses to give. 
Both sides expressed regret over the standoff, which the United States said threatens the three-way ANZUS alliance with Australia, but neither indicated a change in position. Lange denies any danger to the al­liance. 
Lange said Wa.'>hington had resub­mitted a request, rejected last week, to send a warship on a port call and the request again had been turned down. New Zealand has banned nuclear-powered or nuclear-armed warships from its territorial waters on grounds they make the country a 
ster, Robert Hawke. 
Michael remains in the pediatric in· tensive care unit. Hypothermia is the medical name for low body temperature. 'lbe recovery has amazt·d doctors. 

"When he came in, the legs and arms...felt like blocks of ice, and as you squeezed the tissue, you could feel ice in the blood as you would crush ice under the skin," said Dr. Kevin Kelly, associate director ofthe pediatric unit. 
He said the boy's condition was upgraded yesterday to fair and sta­ble, although he still faces three to four weeks of rehabilitation in the hospital. 
Michael wandered outside his Milwaukee home the morning of jan. 19 as his father slept and a 6­year-old sister watched television. 
It was the coldest wekend of the winter, with the temperature at about 20 below zero and wind chill index at about 6S below. 
·"When he was brought into the hospital, he had no vital signs," said Leigh Morris, the hospital spokes­man. "Ifyou didn't know better, you would have said he was clinically dead." 
Physicians predict a nearly com­plete recovery, although they say Michael might have minor muscle damage in the left hand. 
He told a news conference: "I have today replied to the United States confirming our policy and reiterating that the ... request is, with regret, again unacceptable and advising them to send a vessel which I can be sure conforms with the policy." 
Lange said his government would not admit any American warship un­less it could be certain the vessel did not carry nuclear weapons, which about 80 percent of U.S. Navy ships are equipped to do. The United States refused to say whether its ships carry such weapons. 
In Washington, State Department spokesman Bernard Kalb expressed "deep regret" over Lange's decision and said, "We are considering appro­priate responses to the government of New Zealand's denial of port access." 
He said the issue is expected to be taken up during the visit later this week of the Australian prime mini­

Boxer Sale 
Saint Mary's students (left to right) Meg Heffer-the merchandise at theLeMans Boxers Sale. The sale nan, Beth Spraul, LeMans Presidentjaonie Giblin, is connected with LeMans week. and LeMans Vice-President Trisha Glomb inspect 
The Finance Club Proudly Presents: The 27th Annual Finance Forum Tuesday, February 5, 1985 4:00 pm Mr. John K. Moore, Chairman & CEO, The Beach Bank "The Changing Industry: The Community Bankers' Perspective" 
Tuesday, February 5, 7:30pm Mr. JohnS. Poelker, Pres. &CFO, Citizens &Southern Georgia Corp. "The Changing Industry: The Regional Bank's Perspective" 
All presentations are In the Hayes-Healy Auditorium. Public Invited. Informal rece tlons to follow. All are encoura ed to attend. 


needs PHOTOGRAPHERS! 1-Full time (Weekends) 3-Features 
Darkroom experience is required 
Call Pete Laches 283-5303 or stop by The Observer office for application and job description. 





View~_o_i_n__t_________T_ue_sd..;.ay~,F-ebru_ary~5,...;.19....;85~~p~ag~e7 

P.O. BoxQ 
Selfish act impairs the Rowing Club's training 
Dear Editor: progress. This makes it very difficult for those 
The Notre Dame Rowing Club travels over intending to compete next weekend in the 10,000 miles a year to represent the Univer­Midwest Classic in Madison. This is a winter sity in competition. The club races in both the race done completely on rowing machines fall and the spring, traveling completely at the like ours (except these will have student rowers' expense. speedometers). We will still compete, al­
Two years ago, in order to enable the team though this insensitive ac.t will impair our ef­to become more competitive, the club pur­forts. chased, at its own expense, a rowing er­We hope that whoever took the gometer. The machine is used as part of speedometer has good use for it -better than winter workouts not only to stay in shape but the use the 100 members ofthe club had for it. also to test people and record their progress. Maybe they knew the person who stole the The ergometer was placed in the gymnastics other one last year and just had to have one of room at the Rock so that club members could their own. have free access to it. This also allows all mem­We are disappointed by the fact that all bers of the Notre Dame community to take members have to suffer because of the selfish advantage of the machine's benefits. As a actions of a few fellow members of the Notre result we spend a lot oftime and money every Dame family. We hope that whoever stole the spring repairing damaged parts broken by speedometer will reconsider and return it to well-meaning but untrained people. This and us. We also would like to invite anyone who the extra wear and tear are the price we wil­sees a crew team member on the ergometer to lingly accept. feel free to ask for some instruction. We 
However, last Thursday night, for the would be more than happy to explain -who second time in the last year, the ergometer knows, we may try to talk you into joining. was vandalized and its speedometer was Paul E. Shennan, President stolen. Without its speedometer, the er­john C. Crilly, Vice President gometer loses its value as a method of testing Notre Dame Rowing Club 

Implications of cancelling graduate orientation 
Dear Editor: No one gave an explanation for the cancel­
I am a new graduate student at Notre Dame lation, and some people in the graduate 
and began my course ofstudies onJan.l6 with school were even unaware that the orienta­
the spring semester. tion was called off. I was upset when I went to 
The graduate school asked me in a letter pay my complete tuition and was told that I 
several months ago to report to Washington also had to pay $10.00 as a graduate school 
Hall on Monday, Jan. 14, for an orientation at fee. Paying that fee bothered me when the 
8:30 a.m. I was looking forward to the orienta­graduate school did not even go out of their tion since it was the first time I had ever been way to welcome us officially. on campus. I guess I feel a little cheated and left out, and 
I went to a lot of trouble that particular I am still wondering what is going on at Notre morning to be on time for the orientation Dame. It sure wold be nice to at least get an thinking that new students would probably be apology, an explanation and maybe even an welcomed by someone from the graduate orientation. I am sure some of the other new school, and someone would tell us something graduate students this semester were as disap­about the campus and activities available to us pointed as I was to arrive so early on the 14th on campus. ofJanuary to a very cold reception. 
The bad news was that the orientation was Matt Crehan cancelled, and there was a small note on the Notre Dame graduate student door of Washington Hall saying that orienta­tion was cancelled and to report to the P.S. I'd settle for a refund on my Graduate Registrar's Office to enroll. My reception and School fee or maybe a free ticket to a Notre welcome was as cold as the weather that mor­Dame basketball game . . . or even a "Hi, ning. Welcome to Notre Dame." 

Freshman Year program needs some changes 
Viewpoint Wtlnts to bear from you. Ifyou bave an opinion, brlllant lnslgbt cw
Viewpoin1t 
bumorolu comment concerning anytblng 
appearing In The Observer }latsend a Id­
ler toP.O.Box Q.


Policy 


"... AND sorASK vou. ~~, tF NOr us.w~? IF Nor N"-'1. WHEN7,, 
The brutal weather we have endured since our return to campus has evoked mc:mories of another winter three years ago, whc:n current seniors were just freshmen. Th~1t winter, which came in the midst ofa 1 0-1 7 basketball 
Brian McKeon 
refllecting 

season, only served to remind all of us that perhaps we should have gone elsewhere for college. Anywhere had to be warmer than here. 
To make matters worse, the freshman pro­gram was less than exciting. In fact, it was in­credibly dull. Except for the fact lhat I was now living away from home, college seemed to be an extension ofhigh school. Tite courses had not changed much. Sure enough, there was English, Math, Science, a language class, even Phys Ed (Phys Ed? Notre Dame has to have the most active, athletic students around. Why are they wasting our 1time with Phys Ed?) 
And what about Freshman Seminar? The title of the course actually holds. promise. Reality,. however, sets in at the lfirst class meeting. There you are presented with the topic. Depending on the luck ofthe draw, you may stumble upon an interesting class. Or you could be banished, like I was, to a sc:mester of "Psychological Impact of Institutions." A friend of mine who was a freshman last year was stuckwith a teacher who had him writing ten-page research papers on probability. 
Ifclasses did not drive you crazy, your sur­rogate parents would. When you pay your Notre Dame tuition, you automat:ically hire someone to watch over you for a ye:ar. There's Dean Hofman, admonishing you to spend 28 hours ofstudy a week per credit hour (ifyou are good this week, he will take you out to a movie). The rector discusses your grades with you. Your R.A. looks out for any trouble. A senior interviews you to "see how things are going." A guidance counselor makes up your schedule for you and checks your progress. If classes give you trouble, tutoring will be set up. 
Some of you by now are probably wonder­ing what my problem is. How could I criticize the Freshman Year of Studies? Certainly, Notre Dame does an admirable job in easing the difficult transition from high school to col­lege. A number ofstudents would not make it through their initial year without some help. In addition, Hofman's date nights do fill a very large gap in an otherwise nonexistent social life. But it all seems a bit overbearing. Helping someone through a difficult period is one thing -holding his/her hand while doing it is another. 
The basic concept of the Freshman Year of Studies is good. I am not suggesting that fresh­men be thrown into classes with upperclas­smen, nor am I saying that freshmen be left on their own to sink or swim. However, freshman year at Notre Dame leaves little room for growth. The curriculum for the most part is a waste oftime. Classes that on the surface seem worthwhile are often taught by uninspiring and unimpressive graduate students. Having someone looking over your shoulder all the time makes you wonder whether or not you can make it without their help. 
The best thing about the freshmen year is that it only lasts for one year. Obviously, things can onlyget better. But isn't there some way to make it more bearable? The weather and lack of social life are punishment enough for freshmen. I can only remember about two classes my first year from which I derived any benefit. Perhaps I am in the minority. But, if I am not, then something is wrong with the freshmen program. 
Brian McKeon is a seniorgovernment major at Notre Dame and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 

Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Editor-in-Chief . ......... Bob Vonderheide Business Manager. .......... Dave Taiclet Managing Editor ......... Mark Worscheh Controller ..............Dave Stephen itch 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the News Editor ............. Sarah Hamilton Advertising Manager . ...... Anne Culligan University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Editor ............ Dan McCullough Circulation Manager . ......... Jeff O'Neill reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as Saint Mary's Editor ..... Anne Monastyrski Systems Manager . ....... Mark B. Johnson accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion Sports Editor. . . . . . . . . Michael Sullivan Production Manager. ........ Chris Bowler of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column Viewpoint Editor . . . . . . . .... Dave Grote Project Manager ........... Amy Stephan present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the Features Editor. . ... Mary Healy community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters. Photo Editor. . . . . . ... Pete Laches Founded November 3, 1966 is encouraged. 





Accent 
Yes, there are other places t 
-

Mary Ellen Harrington 
features staffwriter 
Y
ou walk by the stadium late: at night and see a light burning. Why? Is someone living there? In the stadium? 
Ifyou are a typical student you have probably heard rumors about people living in the various build­ings around campus. You may have heard strange noices coming from a dark Architecture Building late at night, or seen a student walk through an unmarked door in Lafortune. So what is the real story about these "non-residential" build­ings? 
Yes, there really are students who live neither off campus nor in dorms, but in an unusual form of extra space. 
Matt LaChance enjoys a beautiful view ofSaint Mary's lake from his comfortable three-room apartment in the Architecture Building. In exchange for locking the doors at night and unlocking them on the weekends, LaChance pays no rent, a situation he calls "a good deal." 
"I'm very glad I got it, otherwise this year would have been real tough financially," he said. The occupant of the room is chosen every year by the chairman of the department, and must be a fifth-year architecture student who qualifies for financial aid. The job is limited to men because they "do not want a woman living in the building alone." According to LaChance, "Last year (the resident) found a bum living on one of the floors in the middle of winter. They nearly

r 
scared each other to death." 

r 
Security and the administration

r 
sometimes appear to be oblivious

i 
to LaChance and his place of

r 
residence. When he arrived on

r 
campus this year, the guards at the 

~ main gate laughed when LaChance told them where he was going. "They told me that no one lived (there). And then I had problems
r getting the doors unlocked."
,... Although he lives by himself, LaChance says he is never lonely. 
,... There is always someone in the 
r 
,... 
building and "in the summer, my r friends in Morrissey play their r stereos very loud." As for socializ­r ing and the question ofparties and r parietals, "Du Lac covers me, but 
l r realistically no one is around to enforce anything." 
The Notre Dame Security Depart­ment is in charge ofthe ACC and has two students living there. They pay rent for their apartment and work 12 hours a week. According to Director Glenn Terry, "This is primarily for security, and it makes it possible for (these) students to take part in student activities. They know who should and should not be in the building." 
ACC inhabitants Richard Stickney and Tom Cushing could not be interviewed, for security purposes. 
According to a secretary in Hayes-Healy, the building has no human residents but, "we've got mice." The business buildings are also reportedly inhabited by grem­lins, especially in the basement of 

r Hurley. As legend has it, a ghost
, 
inhabits Washington Hall, but no

, 
live persons haunt its rooms after hours. Many rooms occupied in past

r 
years are now gone or empty. 
Originally, apartments were set up in the buildings on campus for insurance purposes but this is no longer necessary, according to Director ofStudent ActivitiesJoni Neal. "This is slowly being phased out. For c:xample, thc:rc: will no longer he an apartment in Lafortune: aftc:r the: renovations." 



Student Activitic:s is in charge of hiring students to live: in Lafortune and Stepan Center. Applications are submitted in March and April and must be approved by financial aid before interviews take place. This year the selection will be made: by Neal. She says the job is open to anyone but, "my own conscience would not allow me to put a female in the room, c:specially in Stepan." 
The small two-room apartment in Lafortune is currently occupied by Rich Flint, a former resident of Cavanaugh Hall who claims not to miss dorm life: at all. "I value having no neighbors and no rector or R.A. to check up on me." 
Flint says he: is bothered occa­sionally by the noise outside his room in the Nazz, c:specially when they have shows. "The walls are paper thin and I can hc:ar every mistake, c:very wrong note." People: also ask him to opc:n doors or find the: fuse box when necessary, but generally he is left alone because few know ofhis living quartc:rs in the: building. 
In rc:turn for the frc:e room and a small stipend, Flint is employed as a custodian. He is supposc:d to act as sc:curity and check the: doors at night, hut he says Lafortune has hired studc:nt managers to lock up, which leaves him with very little to do, something a busy math graduate studem doesn't mind in the least. 
Having to shower in Grace and being awakened for 8 a.m. tests are two of the biggest problems faced by Nick Molochin, the senior living in Stepan Center this year. Other­wise Molochin enjoys the job which gets him a free room plus a S l ,21 5 salary. In return, he coordi­nates three other students to moni­tor the open courts at Stepan, locks up at night, and is present to over­see other activities during the course of the year. 
Molochin doesn't mind bc:ing around Stepan and says he "has met a lot of kids from different dorms" and played ball with many of them. He also enjoys free movies and Bengal Bouts and a first row seat at pep rallies, something he said his parents enjoyed. 
Even though he is located in an isolated spot and is not allowed to have parties due to the building code (save an occasional late night basketball game with friends), Molochin does not suffer socially. He received permission to partici­pate in interhall sports with Grace Hall and attends Grace dances and parties. 
Overall Molochin enjoys his job and claims to have the "best of both worlds... I like it. Some people wouldn't probably because ofless interaction with roommates and other people, but I'm pretty much ofa loner and like living by myself. 
''I'm living on campus withuut having all the rules being forced down my neck." 
"Probably one of the better jobs on campus hut one with a price to pay," is how graduate student jerry Young describes his life in the Cen­ter for Continuing Education. For working approximately 20 hours a week and paying a very reasonable rent, Young is able to live in a fairly large room on the mezzanine (between the first and second floors) with a view of the stadium. With two other students, Kevin Guillet and Scott Cassidy, Young 
' 
~ 
9


Tuesday, February 5, 1985-page 8 
•


tve on campus 
shares the responsibility ofensuring that all doors are locked in the evenings. They also work during the day in the CCE office and often set up and clean up for the seminars that are held in the building. 
The job is open to any men graduate or undergraduate stu­dents, but Young said that he believes first preference is given to students who already work in the building and have built up a rapport with the staff. He has lived in the CCE for two years and held a job there previously. 
Young claims that the dis­advantages of his situation are far outweighed by the advantages, but they exist nonetheless. "I don't have a lot offree time. Most ofit is spent working down at the front desk during the day." The need for someone in the building at all times includes all breaks and the summer months; Young had to return to campus two weeks early from Christmas this year. Because ofthe hours he works he is unable to go to the dining halls for meals and in­stead must rely on his own hot pot, hot plate and initiative. The latter includes free food from the semi­nars taking place. 
Young enjoys the quiet atmo­
sphere of the building, claiming it is 
ideal for studying, but he also 
misses dorm life to a certain extent. 
"People tend to want to stay in their 
own environment instead ofvisiting 
their friends off campus, even 
though (the CCE) is only about 50 
feet away. It can also be a hassle ifl 
forget my keys ... there's no rector 
or people to call." 
The residents all expressed satis­faction with their situations and claimed they are happy to put up with some minor inconveniences for the return they receive. Ifof­fered the same job again, they all said they would do the same. Oh and by the way, no one lives in the The Observer /Phil Deeter stadium. Rich Flint sits in the privacy ofhis LaFortune abode. 
When altar boys turn bad 

like synthesized grocery-store music, but there is a pleasant
Teresa Keefe 
surprise during the credits with David Bowie's "This is not
Movies 
America." 

Also working well with the story 
line is the cinematography. There is 
" The he Falcon and The Snow-operations are less than ethical and a memorable scene where Daulton 
man" leaves the viewer in­Boyce decides to do something is thrown out ofa Russian limousine 
quisitive about its purpose. Is this about it. He turns to his drug-dealer with xeroxed copies oftop-secret 
movie a spy thriller? Is it a story of friend, Daulton Lee (Sean Penn) for U.S. information flying about him. 
friendship? Is it a depiction ofa help. He decides to sell information Small children clamor around him 
man's constant battle with his con­to the Russians and he uses his best in the dust to pick the papers up. 
science? The movie answers yes to friend, Daulton as the courier. The This movie definitely makes a 
all of these questions, creating a viewer doesn't know the motives comment on CIA activities, but at 
rich story line supported by bril­for Boyce's actions until the end of the same time the Russians are 
liant acting. the movie. portrayed as Neanderthals. There is 
This juxtaposition ofthemes Penn is wonderful as the nasal­even comedy among the serious 
makes the movie more than a voiced Lee who knows nothing story line. Penn is at times comical 
portrayal of two altar boys who turn about spy procedures, except for in his dealing with the Russians, and 
bad. Timothy Hutton (the Falcon) the spy thrillers he reads. But when "the black vault" does not seem to 
and Sean Penn (the Snowman) are they establish their relationship have the environment ofa top 
childhood friends who live among with the Russians it is tragic to secret government operation. 
the chaotic life of the middle '70s watch their lives fall apart. Daulton It must also be noted that Hut­
me-generation in California. sinks deeper into his drugs, and ton's father gives a strong perfor­
The story line is simple. Christop­Boyce sinks deeper into himself, mance as the God-like patriarch of 
her Boyce (Hutton) leaves the constantly battling with his con· his Catholic family. Even a human 
seminary and lands a job with the science. Barbie doll (Lori Singer) shows up 
government via his father. He At the end of the movie, all of this in this film. 
moves his way up to "the black is resolved, but it isn't ended in the 
vault," where he monitors a top typical "James Bond" way. Neither The depth of the story, and the 
secret CIA communications net­of them get the girl, and neither high caliber performances provide 
work. It is here that Boyce's ques­wind up as heroes, probably be­something for everyone. The rich­
tioning blue eyes get him into cause this is a true story, based on a ness of the plot prevents "The Fal­
trouble. book by Robert Linsey. con and The Snowman" from being 
He finds out (through the memos Besides the quality acting, the classified as simply a social com­
he is paid to shred) some ofthe technical aspects ofthe movie ment movie. This flick is worth the 
CIA's operations in Australia. The enhance the plot. The music sounds time and energy. 

----~---­


Eye-oJ>ening exercise 

Marc Ramirez 

Strange days indeed 

F
ive in the morning is just about when you start to hit your silly stage, unless, ofcourse, you are sound asleep in your cozy little bed in your very own room with lots ofwarm blankets and a fluffy, soft pillow in familiar, comforting surroundings, which, as you may have guessed, is not where/ happened to be on this particularly cold morning. 
Instead, I was hard at work in the ol' office, slaving away over a few applications and otl1er potentially crucial matters ofimportance, when the bags forming under my eyes started to feel as if they were housing a few concrete blocks, several baby grand pianos and a prize-winning bull. I think you know what I mean. 
Obviously, something had to be done. I don't make very good coffee, and in fact, after partaking ofseveral cups ofSanka produced at my hand, some people have even died, just like that. Instantly, ifyou will. 
I was getting desperate. I was ready to punt on first down. It had to be done, and I knew it had to be done, and so I done it. I turned on a South Bend radio station. 
I think it was working for a while, but you can only fall into your typewriter so many times or hear so many cuts from Born in the USA before you say to yourself, you know, I don't think this is working very well anymore. It's time for "Plan B." 
Now the only thing worse than having to switch to "Plan B" is not having a "Plan B" to switch to, as I so painfully found out on this frosty morning, which happened to be yesterday. 
So, I decided to get radical. That's right. I took the road less traveled by. I turned on the TV. 
Well, naturally I didn't expect to find much ofanything on at 5:30 in the morning, except maybe a King james Version-totin' minister preaching about goodness with a toll-free number shining at his feet lahk a laht from fah beyond, my friends, but luckily some semblance of hope was still sorta springing within my breast, and it paid off. Like I said, sorta. 
When the first thi.ng I saw on the screen was a small novel warning me not to attempt any of the following activities without a doctor's consent, I knew I was going to be good for at least another half-hour. So then this saucy young vixen appeared, scantily clad, but when I caught sight ofher legwarmers, I knew there was only one thing it could be. 
Aerobicize! Or something like that. This chick looked like Phoebe Cates. She moved like Chita Rivera. She sang like Sheila E. This was it. I had found my destiny. 
My destiny continued to squirm about on the screen while two more girls joined h1:r on the set, although they weren't as cute so as not to distract from the main attraction, I'm sure. Then they started jumping around, and after awhile, they started dancing. 
And then the music started. 

At first it was easy, and the reason I knew this was because I could do it myselfand I was still sitting in my chair. You know, simple stuff, neck exercises, look up, look down, look right, look left. "Come oun, come oun, come oun," the leader ofthe sextet· oh, excuse me, the trio, crooned with the same syllabic accentuation as "I want to go to bed." Her head swung back and forth as she continued. "Go right, and left, and right, and left. Come oun." 
But then their arms started flying around and then they did unspeakable things on the floor while the camera swirled slowly around them in order to expose every possible, uh, angle. This is where I drew the line. I've got my principles, you know. Besides, I wasn't about to move from my chair. 
Nope. I was perfectly content to sit there, typewriter still running, and just watch. It may have been a bright and early morning for the Aerobic sisters, but it was a very late night for me. And this was sexploitation at its very best. How could anyone with any amount of self-esteem allow themselves to be photographed from every side, and I do mean every side, while touching their toes and exercising their hip muscles? Don't bother me with that now. I'll think about it later. Promise. 
"Now y'all just keep on jogging it out right on through our message from our sponsors, now, you hear?" Phoebe chirped. Oh yeah. I jogged it out, all right. I couldn't watch anymore, I decided. I'd had enough. 
Eventually, I did the respectable thing. I turned offthe typewriter so I wouldn't waste any electricity. Chita was back. "I hope you didn't stop there on our commercial 
break, come oun," she sang. And then she and her cohorts got down on all fours, into a position I can't really describe unless you happened to catch the Imperial Walkers in "The Empire Strikes Back." You know what I'm talking about. "Fo mo ... three mo ... two mo ... and back to jumping jacks, come with me now, come oun! 
"Come oun, get tough, get strong! I know you do not need to stop, comeoun!" 
That was it. I just couldn't take it anymore. It was infecting. My arms were beginning to tlail, my feet were starting to shuffle. I was getting tough and strong. I reached out for the On/Off knob. 
"I hope you haven't stopped," Sheila E purred. ''/still haven't stopped." But then it was over. The screen went black. She had stopped, and I had won. 
So you can bet that you'll never find me the victim ofaerobicize again, much less awake at 5:30 in the morning. Trust me. You do believe me, don't you? 
Now come oun. 

~~--------~--,--~--~~------.... 
• 
I 




Sports Briefs 
The SMC softballteamwill be hotding an organiza­tional meeting today at 6:30 p.m. in the lounge of the Angela Ath­letic Facility.-The Observer 
Eddie White, Assistant Sports Information Director at Notre Dame, will be the guest on "Speaking of Sports" today at 9 
p.m. on WVFI AM64. Usteners may make comments or ask questions about Irish athletics by calling 239-6400. -The Observer 
A bowling league for off-campus students is being formed. The league will play on Tuesday's at 9 p.m. beginning today. For more information, call Doug at 289-5379. -The Observer 
Body fat measurementswill be provided free by NVA tomorrow from 6:15p.m. to 7:30p.m. at the NVA office in the ACC. Anyone interested should report to the office wearing shorts and short sleeves. · The Observer 
Tuesday, February 5, 1985-page 10 
NCAA basketball tournamentticketsfor 
the Southeast Regional games to be played at the ACC on March 14 and 16 are now on sale for season-ticket holders. Students may pur· chase tickets beginning Thursday, Feb. 7.-The Observer 
An interhall wrestling tournament is 
being sponsored by NVA. For information, contact the NVA office at 239-6100. The deadline for entries is Feb. 13.-The Observer 
An interhall swimming meet is being sponsored by NVAon Feb. 19. Hall representatives must submit a list ofentries and divers provide a list ofdives to Dennis Stark by Feb. 18. For more information, call Coach Stark at 239-6222 -The Observer 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Thursday until 4 p.m. at The Observer office on the third floor ofLaFortune. Briefs must be clearly written.-The Observer 

Fencers 
continued from page 16 

(next weekend in Detroit) comes close also with three excellent fen­cers. 
"I'm hoping that Don Johnson who was l-2 (against Wayne State) can at least turn that around. If he can do that, then conceivably we can win in sabre again which is im­portant." 
The women's squad also enjoyed some success over the weekend as they went 2-I to advance their record to 7-3 on the year. 
Against Wayne State, they met little success. The Tartans, who have dominated the Irish for years, won a convincing 13-3 decision on Friday. 
On Saturday, nevertheless, the Irish were able to boost their record as expected with easy 13·3 victories over Tri-State and Cleveland State. 
The Obsen•er Notre Dame office. located on the: third floor of LaFortune Student Center. an·epts classified advertising from l) a.m. until-! p.m.. Monday through Friday. The Obsen,er Saint Mary's offit·e. locatt·d on thto third floor of Haggar Collt:gto Center, ac:c:topts dassific:ds from 12:30 p.m until 3 p.m .. Mon· day though Friday. Deadline: for nt·xt-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. All dassific:ds must be prepaid. either in person or hy mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five t'harac·





Classifieds 
ters erda·. 

YO ADRIAN I OR ANYONE ELSE WHO HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOU Attendon Ladies: This Friday is Andy Yuri Andropov ... DEAD Anwar Sadat.... KRIST! QUINTANA -YOU ARE A LOST A SCARF AT THE FRI. NITE ibid Sael's 20th birthday. Please wish this DEAD Buzz Club ....... DEAD?? WIER DO!!! NOTICES SHOWING OF "ROCKY". CAU MIKE HAPPY BIRTHDAY DEAR LISA, HAPPY wretch of a human a happy birthday. He's X2384 TO CLAIM GO FOR IT II BIRTHDAY TO YOU I Love Umey very available ... This public service an· MIKE LAMBERTO: Thanks lor the ticket. BETTER RUN, KATHY -THEY'RE nouncement brought to you by the Soci· My agent paid you, right? 
RIGHT BEHIND YOU! EXPERT TYPING 2n-B534 AFTER 5:30 LOST Sometime between 11 :59pm Feb 5 DAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UOUOR, ely for the Elimination of Loneliness. and 12:01am Feb 5. Jack lucas lost youth CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., Riders needed to Michigan State the PATII T. : ARE YOU FEELING BET­to the passing winds of time. Oh well. ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. PERSONAL ARE OK....BUT YOU CAN'T weekend of Feb. 8. Call12351f interested. TER? TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-81187 PUT PICTURES IN THEM THE FOUND EARRINGS at KEENAN REVUE OBSERVER NOW HAS A SPECIAL SO. MELISSA -AND YOU THOUGHT IS IT lliUE YOU CAH BUY JEEPS FOR PARTY IN KEENAN SATURDAY NIGHT RATE FOR BIRTHDAY DISPLAY AD Tu midi solos plaques. YOU WERE SAFE. RUN!!! $44 THROUGH THE U.S. GOVER~ If they're yours. contact Father Dave In WE ACCEPT ANYTHING SHORT OF
YoFio&B.O. :O.C. is the placetobenext
MENT? GET THE FACTS TODAY! RM120Keenan. NUDIES CALL 239-5303 FOR DETAILS Helpli-ntto ITIMI the beautHul girt Ill I Need a RIDE to Miamr U. (OXFORD
year.
CALL 1-312-742-1142 EXT. 73111. 

tat Set.'a 9:00 "Rocky.'' Front row, Ohio) vary badly THIS WEEKEND, Feb. Marc Ramirez is a madman. 2nd from the right In • group of glrta, 9th. Will rent a car If neceasery. Don'tlis getting really close! Cant you feel It?
TYPING AVAILABLE with a funky •-te<, and later Ill delay, Cjlll today. JESSE 2085 A CHANGE IS COMING!! 

2117-40112 I'll buy Valentine's Day gifts ... not. K...,.n. PIM•call William x 34601 
WANTED 

MIKE I MARK HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
AJ McGuire: a renaisssnce man BONEHEADS! LOVE, BRIDGET,TYPING TICKETS: Need TWO tlckels for the 
Get in? Getover? Get through? KATIE,MOLLY,MATI& RYAN JACKIE BOGGS Syracuse game. I need these 
Get out! old grad. desperately'!! My girlfriend is coming up
1184-87113 WANTED: 35-yr. seminarian "He's an Einstein ... a Michaelangelo Ill" Marci If you should decide to write a leHer needs houee/apt. to !lit, 6/1-8116. Wlll pro­and will kill me (not to mention things she 
-AI McGuire or something, I promise I'll reed it -dee!? vide security/maintenance in exchange WONT do ) ~ I don't get these tickels. Okay, but wily do guys dig Beth Whelpley Pat GOVERNMENT JOBS. $15,000 -for rent-free place to sleep/study. Call Please help out a fellow Domer wflo and Kelly O'Neil? Pheeper"Did you really?"Yeeh, I did but $50,000/yr. poeaible. All oocupations. 272-2876 after 5 p.m. References fur­hasn't seen his beautiful girlfriend In a Stay tuned to this channel for anawers. the top bunk is bener. You're the best(so 
was friday) T e amo Us

Call 805-e87-6000 Ext. R-9834 for infor­nished. long, LONG time!! Call Dan at2275 today! -C.M. THE WENCH TURNS 22 TODAY I! mation. Rider needed lo ROCHESTER, N.Y. 
WVFI WVFI WVFI WVFI WVFI presents EXPERT TYPING 2n-B534 AFTER 5:30 area. Leaving Wed. 2/13, returning Sun. The NUKE THE COMMIE RUSKIES club Student Body President Debates -hear wflispar, wflisper, wfllaper. HEY II wanted 
2/17. Call Ed at272-o828. is now forming. For Information on how to candidates' Thursday, to get your anention because the STU·the ideas ­SENIOR SKI TRIP TO SUGAR LOAF 
join and keep the world safe for February 7 at 7:00 --Tune in to WVFI! DENT ACTIVITIES BOARD'S TRIPS TO NEED RIDERS FOR ALONG 1-90 TO democracy call Tom Halpin at 2397. WVFI WVFI WVFI WVFI WVFI 
MOUNTAIN!! SPOTS STIU AVAILABLE FT. LAUDERDALE & DAYTONA BEACH MARCH 1,2,3 $25.00 DEPOSIT SENIOR Typing/Word Proceaaing-Term Papers, SYRACUSE 217-10 BIU 4073 deserve anention. For quality and price.
CLASS OFFICE-1.5 LAFORTUNE
bulli.-leiters. etc. We will edit. Call There's no place like home ... There's no HAPPY BIRTHDAY you can't beat SAB. Not only do we offerMON-FRI 6-9 .
Andree Price. 283-3880 Riders needed to Michigan State the place like home... There's no place like LISAMARIE VISINGARDII sun & fun but also scuba diving, parties, weekend of Feb. 8. Call1235 if interested. 
home ... you're a GREAT roommate. 
White Sox baseball, St. Patricl<'s DayBEST TIME-BEST VALUE: WHERE: DAYTONA BEACH!! WHEN: SPRING Dorene celebrations Everglade trips, day boat ex­Atlention all Oomers! The Lonely Hearts cursions .... To find out more,call the SAB 
BREAK '85. WHO: ALL ND/SMC STU­or inquire at the Record Store. The first
NEED: Two Brigham Young GA's and Club of Notre Dame Is now accepting ap­
DENTS. CALL 239-5136 OR STOP BY SENIOR CLASS OFFICE, 1.5 MARDI GRAS 
one student ticket. Call JACK 2066 plications. Please send an 8x10 glossy of 
informational meeting is Thursday,yourself to 425 Lewis Hall. Be sure to In­
February 7 at 7pm. 


LOST/FOUND 

Need ride to Columbus on 28 SMC 5252. LAIFORTUNE. MON-FRI, 6-Qpm. clude a brief biography. You will be MARDI GRAS notified of a decision within three days of 
MARDI GRAS 

FOR A GOOD TIME CAU... SAB! Onlyapplication. 
MARDI GRAS the STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD of·

LOST: GREEN SWEATER IN CUSHING, MARDI GRAS 
lers the finest quality trips to FT ROOM 208 IF FOUND. CALL JOHN AT Mellon. You're not a geek magnet. Take It 
LAUDERDALE AND DAYTONA BEACH! 
CAMPUS BIBLE FEUOWSHIP: Have
2196 NO QUESTIONS ASKED from someone wflo knows. Signed, The 
you wver really studied the Bible? Do you Sounds interesting? The first informs·
Talent Contest and Airband Contest know lis main theme? What is God's
FOR SALE Electro-geek magnet. 
tiona! meeting is on Thursday, February 7 
LOST Bleck trench coat at Corby's on $100 First Prize at7pm.
message to the problems of 1965? We
Jan. 14.1thedaflof myi.O.slnltsopi811S8 The class~eds are NOT a toy. Saturday 8 P.M. South Dining Hall 
discuss this every Tues. wvening at 8:30 
return as soon as poeaible. Reward of· Come cheer on your favorites, YOU 
Katef!Trude: fe<ed. Cell Kay at2903 or 2939. Car tape player (cassene) w/AM·FM decide the winners 
p.m., 1210 Geriand. Rides leave 8:15 
loway ... wflere the tall com grows (A radio & 2 apkrs. $40. 272-4936 SARAH BROKE A NAIL!!II 
p.m.. E. door of library. N.D.; 8:15p.m.• 
$1.50 at the door foyer of McCandless, St. Mary's. Cal1233­POWER WEEKEND) LOST:WOMAN'S PETITE NO CLASS 
4537 for more info. 
RING. GOLD WITH BLUE STONE INI· MAXEU TAPES! Beth Whelpley, XLII·90min $25/cese of ten at 596 or 124 you have been grossly misinformed ~ you
TIALS, KMK, INSIDE. THIRD FLOOR Wln a trip to the Real MARDI GRAS 
Free raffle ticket with admission to the HEY STEPHEN B 
LAIFORTUNE. PLEASE CALL KATHY Dillon believe you will see!< out and lind the truly 
40711 wondrous conglomerated madmen! Give Dance-A-Thon HAPPY ANNIVERSARY! This OREGONIAN may be stuck in OH, VALENTINE! up your quest now and accept your fate: 
This Friday al Stepan Center We've shared three years together 
6P.M. to6AM. now I know il'a gonna be lorwver
LOST: a gold Cibzen watch on Sunday dorne'svllle lor spring break but YOU can someday we shall comer you alone in a PARTY AU NIGHT LONG thanks for the great timesJan. 27, somewhere between Zahm and have his plane tickel home (for March12) a.t the ru-"....come up to The crowded schoolyard and force you to 
the North Dining Hall. If found. pl811S8 call cheap. 3528. The name is John. Dberiw arKI place your Valentine'• remove your shoes, one by agonizing that never seem to end Tomal1244 Dey ~ thla WMk. We've eet one. 
But most of all thank you Come see one of Columbus' best bands: for being my 
atele a apedat C81egory Juat for you to Tile Conglomerated Madmen Found: 1 pair of blue and grey gloves In get rMI gOoey with your hewtthrob. The Danger Brothers Inspiration 356 Fltz. Cell4223 Performing at the Mardi Gras Dance-A· and
The apeclal day Ia Thur8dey, Feb. 14, 
but•vold long UnHand comeIn today. Happy birthday Heather, sorry for being Thon from 9 P.M.·1 A.M. best friend Loat: A beige wool hat with brown stripes. late Loet IOOletime Saturday night. If found. TICKETS 
Love, plMM call Eric at 283-4352. LAWS OF MR. GOOOWENCH THE LYONS PENTHOUSE BUNHEADS eta
SPONGE·BATH Imported exclusively lor LOOKS LAW : THE LOOK OF A GIRL Thanks lor a greet 21st! LOVE, WAD 
anyone wflo wants it: 202 Holy Cross LOST: one pair at black leather gloves on 3122 Eric Evana (News Agent) ARE DIRECTLY PROPORTIONAL TO To the Whiners: I'm HUNGRY! (FOR 
1130 somewhe<e around the art building HELPI Need 3 Syracuse vs NO tickels. ................................................................ THEIR MAJOR; 9. BUS. 8. SCI. 8. yEG 7. Yo, Jehannum, Sheol. Harem, Elena, and PENNIES) or Lalotune. If found pleue call Mike at PI811S8 call Teny at1991! Studenls of the female persuasion: A&L y WHO SAID BEATYFUL GIRLS anyone else involved in this farce, as well DON'T TAKE MY PUFF I 2n-3828. OIDNT HAVE BRAINS as Zeus, wflo may yet be interested: MC I'M so wasted!
Beware! Zahm Hall's Hidden Hearts BIG BUCKS need 4 SYRACUSE stud tix Dance Ia coming up on Feb. 9. Be ready to 
I said I'd never give up the ring without a I can play Da-Da-Da at281 
FOUND: a red and black wool woman's call Mark X1204 hear from your favorite Zahmbie for the HAPPY BIRTHDAY LISA VISINGAROI! fight, and I mean It! Who bit my face? ecarl. ltllll'ltllla of a nice parium, so It Is big coetume dance. HAVE A FUN ONE! LOVE, THE GUM Thomas Covenant the Beliwver .-Jmed to be a nice woman's scerf, so NEED 2 STUD OR GA FOR SYRACUSE WOMAN From the girls at the end ol the hall call 30711 CALL JOANNE 2800 sPooGe:iiAn.;:::·ii:~··~;·sLow.oEAn:i but it's close. It wven 011erlapa a bit. Sorry 
REMEMBER THE KEENAN REVUE RH· YOU ARE MY SUNSHINE, MY Robtl Teny, Give us more money! ;:.;-·~;..;;;;;;;,;;··;:.;y··y;;d;;··~~..n;; 00 AHEAD • MAKE MY DAY. NEED about that. PARTY? THE ONLY DJS THAT MAT­ONLY SUNSHINE. YOU MAKE ME You were great and make lovely glris Parking Lot: I ~ately need that $200. ONE TIC FOR IIYU OR WASH. MATT TER! (ALIAS PAT MURPHY AND DON HAPPY WHEN SKIES ARE GREY! wven with your "staches!" PLEASE return It to the loet and found or • 3718. SEYMOUR) WIU BE AT CHATAOUA. happy3! We love yal Carolyrll Steph the lew echool. no questions asked. Lori THIS FRIDAY FEBRUARY 8 AT 9PM
TO THE GUY WITH THE PIERCED EAR 
BRUCE TURNER Mary Nessinger, IN THE 9:30 SOCIAL PROSLEMS 
L.Guzzo NEED 3 TIX FOR SYRACUSE GAME. DJING A DANCE SPONSORED BY THE 
I like McCandless betler1 CLASS AT SMC-YOU MAKE TUES­
CALL 239-7204 OR 233-3412. NOTRE DAME OJ SOCIETY. COME 
BRUCE TURNER DAYS AND THURSDAYS MORE INTER­
LOST PACKET OF STUDENT 88 TICK­ONE. COME ALL TO THE ONLY DANCE 
ZekeVelour LEIGHANN SMC 4451 ESTING. 4 days ... that's just FOUR DAYS until the 
ETS. SECTION 103 REWARD CAU Need 1 Syracuse student or GA 3646 THAT MATTERS! ADMISSION: $1 THIRD-ANNUAL-BRUCE· TURNER 
HELP! Need Syracuse tix -G.A. or stu­NANCE-HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO OUR 
Loat:pr. of blk ski gloves In H-H on Wed. -BIRTHDAY·BASH! Guard your WQ. THE EGO ROLL EXPRESS
dan!. Call1570. SHORT ROOMIE. WHAT WOULD WE 
MEN, guys! ( ... and your amareno ... ) Need 1 Syracuse ticket Sudent or GA Call One pair of eyegleMH HAPPY 22NDI! LOVE, MEGHAN, 
2n-B7115 LOST DO WITHOUT YOU? BE A LOT SANER. 
"Homemade Egg Rolls" LOST· One blue left hand glove, lost at Margie SMC 4294 SooMwh..ln North Quad.,... JOANNE, ALISON & OR RUTH BRUCE TURNER OPEN Weekends the ACC on Jan. 20. If found please call call W.R. 1505 Friday---11·2am Markat2450 HEY WALSH! THE 22 FLAMING SHOTS BRUCE TURNER Saturday---·11-2am ARE ON US. CONNIE. JIM & CHELSEA 
Sunday------9-12am LOST: N.D. RUGBY LETTER JACKET IS HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO LISA MARIE 
RUN, HILSON, RUN! RUN, ERWIN, Located Lewis Hall Basement 

PERSONALS 

RUN! RUN, CLIFFORD, RUN! IF WE
STIU AT LARGE. REWARD FOR ANY VISINGARDI!! Give Use a call today at NLW-HAPPY 22ND! NO STRINGS AT­CAN CATCH YOU ...
INFORMATION LEADING TO THE AR­3433 and make her think she is popular. TACHED! LOUISE & CELLO REST AND CONVICTION OF ITS CAP­Dorene-! had fun Saturday n;ght despite TORS. PLEASE CALL J.R. REID AT PREGNANT? NEED HELP? CALL 234-Happy B-day LISA MARIE VISINGARDI!I HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO THE MAN FROM MR ALIENS MR NOT MR ALIENS LIB, the drunken stupor. You're hilarious wflen 2n·7561 IF YOU HAVE ANY KNOWL· 0363. 24 hour hotline/free pregnancy test You have now ,..chad the age of TENNESSEE! LOVE, YOUR NUMBER MR ALIENS ALUMNI ALIENS: HAVE you're inebriated! Love, your roomie. P.S. EDGE OF ITS WHEREABOUTS. available. WOMEN'S CARE CENTER womanhood. Lov• y•, KKS ONE FAN. THEY FOUND YOU YET? Moosey knows!!!! 
•I 


-----~-----------~--~--~-~-~ ~--~-~-------~--------. 
The Observer Tuesday, February 5, 1985-page 11 
Philadelphia takes on new generaiinanager 
Associated Press Crocker Bank of California that come due next month. 
PHILADELPHIA-Harry Gamble, a Tose praised Gamble's business former coach with a pair ofbusiness training -master's and doctor's degrees, took over yesterday as gen­degrees in busines1> administration eral manager of the Philadelphia from Temple University. But he led Eagles, a National Football League off the press conference by refusing team that must overcome large fin­to discuss the finances of his team, ancial problems. citing an agreement with NFL com­
Gamble, who served as an admin­missioner Pete Rozelle. istrator with the Eagles for the past "It's a mutual agreement, and year, said he wants to help develop a that's the way it's going to be," Tose team "that all the fans would be said. He is seeking a loan guarantee proud of." from the NFL reported to be at least 
$12 million. 
Eagles owner Leonard Tose an­After learning that the Eagles nounced the appointment at a mor­might leave town, Mayor W. Wilson ning press conference, saying he Goode granted the franchise selected the 54-year-old Gamble for concessions worth an estimated $1 0 "football knowledge, leadership and million and the NFL agreed to try to loyalty." help Tose resolve his financial prob­
Tose, who was on the brink last lems. December of selling part of the The Eagles haven't had a general Eagles and move them to Phoenix, is manager since the end of the 1982 negotiating with an NFL committee season, when Jim Murray was fired Dame varsity swimming'sfinal performance in the Kalamazoo College will begin at 4p.m. Mary Sieger 
in an effort to resolve his financial and his duties taken over by Tose's Rockne Memorial Pool. A newpool is scheduled to bas details on today's meets on page 16. problems. He is reported to be some daughter, Susan Fletcher, who also is be completed for the Irish in time for next season. $40 million in debt and has loans re­the team's vice presioent and gen­ported at S27 million with the eral counsel. 

Lendl top-seeded iln Lipton tourney 
Black Hawks fire coach 
Associated Press 128-player fields for both men and Lendl, who won the French Open women, larger than either the in 1984, has reached the final of a
Associated Press 
DELRAY BEACH, Fla. -With John French or Australian Opens . And, Grand Slam event five other times, McEnroe and Jimmy Connors sitting unlike the Australian Open, the UPC only to lose -the 1981 French Open,CHICAGO-After a short and stormy reign as head coach of the 
this one out, Ivan Lendl· is. top­will stage a mixed doubles. the U.S. open in 1982-84 and theChicago Black Hawks, Orval Tessier was fired yesterday by General seeded in the inaugural $1.8 million Asked if the AustJralian Open will 1983 Australian Open.
Manager Bob Pulford, who took over as interim head coach for a 
Lipton International Players Cham­fade away as a Grand Slam tourna­While he eagerly jumped into thesecond time. agreement was extended for a year to run through the pionships, a two-week tennis tourn­ment, Lendl said: "lit did already, a Australian Open controversy, Lendl1985-86 season. 
ament which begins play today. long time ago. was cautious about discussing the
Pulford, who once served as both coach and general manager of Martina Navratilova and Chris "It (the Australia11 Open) will al­absence of McEnroe and Connors
the National Hockey League team, relieved Keith Magnuson in 1982 
Evert lloyd, seeded first and second, ways exist, but you can see the here.
before hiring Tessier. 
respectively, lead the women's field. players don't show lllp there as they "You can't put on a tournamentPulford could have named assistant coach Roger Neilson to the do at the French, Wimbledon and and expect everyone to play," he
top job, but said: "I had considered it but I felt at this stage that would With the first ball has yet to be the U.S. Open." said. "They have their own reasons
be unfair. I felt I'm the one that has to take over and I have." served on the hardcourts at Laver's The UPC is the first two-week ten­not to play. I'm staying out ofit."
Tessier, 51, took over for the 1982-83 season when he led the 
International Tennis Resort, the nis event to start s:ince the end of
Black Hawks to a 47-23-10 record and a Norris Division title. The 
Czechoslovakian right-hander feels World War II. McEnroe does not like to change
Hawks reached the Campbell Conference Stanley Cup finals that the UPC eventually could become a The Australian Open had slipped surfaces, and right now he is in the
season and Tessier was named NHL coach ofthe Year. But everything has been downhill for Tessier since then. 
fifth Grand Slam tournament or badly in the 1970s as the top men midst ofhis indoor season. Connors, replace the Australian Open as one refused to play since it was held who was upset by Sweden's Stefan
The end came yesterday, after the Hawks lost a home weekend of the four Grand Slam events. during the Christmas holidays. Edberg in the semifinals of the U.S.
series to the first-place St. Louis Blues, dropping their record to 22­The UPC is the same size as national Indoor Championships in
28-3.. 
Wimbledon and the U.S. operi with Major changes art! being made to Memphis, Tenn., on Saturday, has reinstate the Australian Open as a said he needs to take time off. major draw. In 1987, the tourna­ment will be moved to January, Lendl will highlight the opening 
meaning there will be no Australian day when he plays his first-round Open in 1986. The Australian Tennis match against Larry Stefanki. The Federation also is rebuilding its match will be followed by Czechos­
WE'LL PAY YOU TO GET INTO 



SHAPE IS SUMMER. 
facilities, and could possibly change lovakia's Hana Mandlikova, who is from grass to either hardcourt or a seeded seventh in the women's field, synthetic grass surface. against Raffaella Reggi ofltaly. 
If you have at least two years of college left, you can spend six weeks at 
Camp thissummer and earn 
And ifyou qualify, you 
year Program this fall and receive up to $1,000 a year. 
But the big payoff happens on graduation day. That's when you receive 

-
an officer's commission. So get your body in shape (not to mention your 
Enroll in Army ROTC. 
contact your Professor of 
ARMY ROTC. 
----YOU CAM BE. 
CALL LTC SKINNER OR CPT DOMINGO 239-6264 
The Observer Tuesday, February 5, 1985 -page 12 

N.C. State's Washburn enters plea of guilty to charges of stereo theft 
Associated Press 

RALEIGH, N.C.) -Chris Wash· 
burn, the 6-1 I North Carolina State 
freshman who was one of the na· 
tion's most sought after schoolboy 
basketball players last season, 
pleaded guilty yesterday to three 
misdemeanor charges stemming 
from the theft of stereo equipment 
last December. 

He was immediately sentenced to 
three days in jail. 

"It is very clear to us ... that this 
young man has to be punished. We 
recognize that ... and he recognizes 
that," defense attorney Wade Smith 
told Wake Superior CourtJudge Mil· 
ton Reid. "While there must be 
punishment, we hope the punish· 
ment does not close the doors to his 
future." 

Reid also gave Washburn a 
suspended six-year sentence and 
placed him on probation for five 
years. Wao;hburn wao; ordered to 
report for jail next Dec. 19, one year 
Reds miffed; city is suing 
Associated Press 

CINCINNA 11 · Cincinnati Reds of­
ficials are miffed that the city is plan· 
ning to pursue a lawsuit against the 
National League ballclub all the way 
to the Ohio Supreme Court. 

At a council committee hearing yesterday on the stability of Cincin­nati sports franchises, cou'ncil mem­bers indicated they'll take their fight for S I. l million in lost revenues from the 1981 baseball players' strike to the Supreme Court. 
The city, which operates Riverfront Stadium, asserted the bal­lclub violated its lease by failing to play a full number of home games during the players' strike. However, Hamilton County Common Pleas Judge Thomas Crush ruled for the ballclub, saying there was no provi· sion in the city's 40-year lease with the Reds to cover a strike. 
The city appealed and lost in the 1st Ohio District Court ofAppeals. 
DO YOU RUN

-------------------·: 
with your : 

IIWALKMAN?" : 
Now you can protect your Invest· : ment ond rid yourself of the onnoy-• onces: tangled cords. lnoccessble • controls from backpacks or 

poe-:
• kets and the ''bOunce" associated with bells or waist clips. 

Sound-PAK Is a zippered. Insulated, • well-padded, canvas "PAK" wnh • elaSticized straps that hold your • portable stereo securely to the top: of your chest during all sportsll : 
SOUND-PAK : • fits stereos up to 4 • x5•. Blue. Red or • • Green. Adjustable. Send 517.95 plus • : S1 post. to: Sound-PAK. Box 66, : • WUIIslon. VT 05495. •
i MONEY BACK GUARANTUIII : 

-
after he took what his lawyers said 
was S800 worth of stereo equip­
ment from the room of two football 
players at the College Inn, an ath· 
!etc's dormitory. 
"!ben: was no immediate word ~ Wao;hburn's status from the univer­sity. Coach Jim Valvano, who benched Washburn after he was ar­rested. couldn't be reached immedi­ately for comment. 
Wao;hburn's plea came as a grand jury was to consider indicting him on a second-degree burglary charge, a charge which could have brought him a 14-year prison term. 
As part ofa plea agreement, Wao;h­burn con~ented to a 20-point proba­tion order, which included provisions that he get mental health treatment, perform 320 hours of 

community service and pay S I ,000 to a crime victims' fund. Wao;hburn, 19, declined comment as he left the courtroom. 
The judge left the door open for Washburn's to continue his basket· ball career. 
"Whether or not you are going to play basketball will be a decision for responsible officials" at NCSU to make, Reid said. "That is not an ap­propriate decision for this court." 
A top national recruit a year ago, Washburn started for the Wolfpack before his arrest. 
La'it Sept. 20, Wao;hburn was found guilty of assault on a female, given a 30-day suspended sentence and fined $25 and court costs. The woman said Washburn slapped her and pushed her after an argument in her dormitory. 





NBA Standings 
Eastern Comerence Western Conference 
Atlantic Dlvlalon Midwest Division 
w L Pet. GB w L Pet. GB B011ton 39 9 .813 -Denver 30 19 .612 Philadelphia 3B 10 .792 1 Houston 27 20 .574 2 Washington 27 23 .540 13Dalias 25 23 .521 4.5 New Jersey 22 26 .458 17 San Antonio 23 24 .489 6 New York 17 32 .347 22.5Utah 22 26 .458 7.5 
Cenlnll Division Kansas City 15 32 .319 14 Milwaukee 34 14 .708 Pacific Dlvlalon 
Detroit  29  17  .630  4L.A. Lakers  
Chicago  24  23  .511  9.5Phoenix  
Atlanta  20  28  .417  14Seattle  
Indiana  16  33  .333  18 Portland  
Cleveland  15  32  .319  18.5L.A. Clippers  
Golden State  
Yeaterday'a Reaulta  
Cleveland 121-:Yiashington 112  
Philadelphia 106, Atlanta 92  
LA Clippers 115, Indiana 96  
Detroit at Milwaukee, (n)  
Golden State at San Antonio, (n)  

34 23 21 20 20 11  16 25 28 28 29 35  .680 .479 .429 .417 .408 .239  10 12.5 13 13.5 21  
- 

I 

CHIMES 
Saint Mary's College Literary Magazine is now accepting: 
stories poems photos pictures artwork 
Submit to: CHIMES c/o Westler 3JO Madelera Hall 
clip and 58\'e-cllp and save-clip and save-clip and save-clip and save-clip 111 
t! Counseline ~ f ~ 239-7793 t
= 
~ 

~ One ofyourfriends down in the dumps? ~ &. Try tape 90 or432 ~ 
m = 
~ liiU ""' _,_ '-~ 
a. l ,._.,l, lodiAlllo !
-6' J ~ ., rat-, 
• 
,.,lallllt-, 

• 
......llll ....u .. '-'•... ,,.,.._ 7 ...u.. wttll C..tructlft Crlt:lol• • -lbellttll ..... t 'UIIIIn'etue.Ue Jealou.r _. ..,. to DMl vttb It 


10If ...____, ..., ...


...._. 
II Dot.... aUh

ZO -~•-lU,.
n 1111• ._.__u,,· 
JO .-.tetJ' 18111 ....n,t. .,.,. to eop. vue. u JZ .. t• DNt wta ~u.... JJ ... le ....11 FNI'I ,. bcnulat; S.lt•'-r.e.. n lhll1411S.... lelf-bt._ Uld Coafld•nc• 
)7 lelautt• .bft'elHI • J1 C.,ba wltb Stn•• Jl F-11 Sea lol~l ...:1 lti'..HI .a llall Su: lole--Qaap• ... su..... 441 ...nlat; to Accept Your••lf 


11 ..., ll nwtapy and ...., to Uaa 11 70 l•fat•U• or t.ow.7 
I) .._ to C.,. vt.tb • lroUa ldatloublp lA Dll&th Uld Drlfta 
•~ ,.,..._ratudlna Crlaf 
to lllpl... hl...S 160 t:arlr uau Df u alcohDJ PTobJ• 111 ..•poulbl• DM:hlou atlout Dr't..nUnc .02 5elf Manu....... 
•u ~··• Df C:O..tnct .,.Udlfta 
4)1 ...., h Dapnaa.lDn 4ll ...., to Daal with P.preaalon 4ll Dlpl'eaaiDn •• a Lt. fenyl• 471 IKoa.... 1Me,_,.9f't f-r• Parnu 479 DlaltAI vhll Alc~liC Parenta 411 Suic14al Crhh 4f2 leeotnhlnc Sut.dd&l PDtentlale ln OtMra U3 Helph•l .sc..on. in • Suicidal Crhh 
Hoan: M·Than 4·12 pm
Friday 4-8 pm _______, 

The Phtladelphta 76ers]ultus Erving will makeyet another ap­pearance tn Sunday's NBA All-Star game tn Indtanapolts.jotntng htm tn thestarting ltneupfor the East squad wtll be Moses Malone, Larry Btrd, /stab Thomas and rookie Mtchaeljordan. 

Afteryour lastexam, whattoughquestions will youstill befacing? 

W don't have your answers. But we'll listen to your questions, 
share some of our own about who we want to become and where we want to journey. For anyone who has considered the path of priesthood, the Holy Cross Fathers' One-Year Candidate Program provides an opportunity to ask and explore the possibilities in community. 

Contact: 
Rev. Andre Leveille, C.S.C. Vocation Director Box 541 Notre Dome, IN 46556 (219) 283-6385 

The Observer Tuesday, F~bruary 5, 1985-page 13 




Women travel to Dayton to take on Lady Flyers 

ByMIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Editor 
Thefirsthalfofthe 1984-85 North Star Conference season ends this week with the Notre Dame women's basketball team in the thick of the fight for the early NSC lead. And a major determinant in that race will be the outcome of tonight's game between the Irish and current frontrunner Dayton. 
The Lady Flyers, who have a per­fect 5-0 record in the conference, will be looking for revenge when Mary DiStanislao's Irish visit the UD Arena in hopes ofimproving on their 3-1 conference mark. In each of the last two years, Notre Dame has pulled off mild upsets over Unda Makowski's squad, including a 63-57 stunner on Dayton's home court last year. 
Although this is Dayton's first year as a Division I school (and first year in the North Star), the Flyers have made the switch from Division II easily -to nobody's surprise. They have been playing a Division I schedule for the past few years, and were one ofthe top Division II teams in the nation during the past two years. Last year, they held the No. l spot at one point in the season, even­tually reaching the Final Four before 
bowing out with an impressive 27-4 
record. 
The 63-5..., loss to Notre Dame was 
one of the four blemishes on that 
record and came a year after the 
Irish won a dramatic 68-64 overtime 
game over the Flyers in the ACC. In 
that game, guard Laura Dougherty 
hit a desperation 20-footer at the 
buzzer to tie the game at the end of 
regulation. 
"I don't think Dayton expected to lose either ofthose games," says DiS­tanislao. "With them coming off a big loss (against No. 11 Western Kentucky) and having a lot of talent, they'll really be ready to play." 
Notre Dame, too, se:ems ready for the showdown after bombing two NSC opponents -Butkr (79-40) and Evansville ( 7 4-5 3) -l:ast week. The Irish proved they have the best de­fensive team in the conference when they are playing well, but, more importantly, see-med to found a groove on the offensive part of the game, despite the loss of second­leading scorer Carrie Bates who left the team last week. 
"This is a big game for us in terms of keeping up our momentum," says DiStanislao. "We'll see how good we really are. It's also important in terms of our positioning within the conference." 


There's Always Space for the New Expressionist. 
At TRW's Electronics and Defense Sector, we recognize the value of new ideas. We provide an environment with space for free thought and expression. To us, you are tomorrow's source of talent and creative energy. With us, you can reach deep into the expanses of your imagination and help to develop technologies that literally reach beyond the stars. 
Our informal and encouraging atmosphere has produced a galaxy of opportunities ...encompassing large software computer systems, communications and scientific spacecraft, alternative energy sources, high energy lasers, and microelectronics development. These opportunities are open to you. 
Take advantage of this opportunity to shape your future and ours ... join a company that gladly makes space for the new expressionist. Tomorrow is taking shape at a company call TRW. 
Equal Opportunity Employer 
U.S. Citizenship Required 
On-campus interviews Feb· 20 • 21, :22 See your placement office for details. 

••~o 
Electronics & Defense Sector 
A win over Dayton would put 
Notre Dame in a commanding posi­
tion when the second half of the 
conference schedule: begins. Unlike 
the Flyers who have faced most of 
their tough competition at home so 
far this season, the Irish have had to 
play most of their conference games 
on the road. With the toughest part 
of their schedule almost completed, 
the Irish could still find themselves 
in a tie for first place and, therefore, 
in the driver's seat. 
Defeating the host Flyers will be 
no easy task, though, as Makowski 
has eight players, including three 
starters, returning from last year's 
team which averaged over 90 points 
a game at home. This year's 10-8 
squad has not put as many points on 
the board as it has struggled occa­
sionally with its complete Division I 
schedule, but the Flyers do have a 
number of talented players. 
Center Theresa Yingling is the 
most visible of the Flyers, not only 
because of her size ( 6-5 ), but also 
because of her team-leading scoring 
( 12.5 ppg) and rebounding (7.9 rpg) averages. The junior has been a starter at times this year, but has also come off the bench. 
The same thing can also be said for 
Dayton's 5-6 guard Leah Abla who is 
second on the team in scoring ( 11.4 
ppg). She, too, has been in and out of 
the starting lineup, but her contribu­
tions as scorer and playmaker is very 
important to the team. 
Yingling and Abla may be the big 
guns, but they have plenty ofhelp as 
ten players average more than four 
points an outing. Much of the added 
scoring comes from the guard posi­
tions where two juniors, Rhonda 
Klette and Mary Byers, combine for 
20 points per game. 
The inside game is helped by the play of forwards Lori Cahill (4.6 ppg), Michele Kruty ( 6. 7 ppg) and Sharon Curd ( 5.9 ppg). Center Monica West ( 4.6 ppg) and forward­center Cheryl Dickerson ( 5.4 ppg, 
5.7 rpg) also help out the attack un­der the basket. 
Although the inside game of the 
Flyers is strong -they currently lead 
the conference in rebounding mar­
gin -Notre Dame may have the 
strongest inside game in the confer­
ence. Freshman center Sandy Bot­
ham has been coming on strong in 
recent games, as has senior Mary 
Beth Schueth who broke the 
school's all-time rebounding record 
in Friday's game against Evansville. 
Freshman Kathy Brommeland has 
also played well off the bench, 
scoring in double figures in both 
games last week. 
The emergence of Botham and Brommeland has made the loss of Bates a little easier to take, although they will not be able to make up the loss offour years ofexperience. 
"Both Kathy and Sandy are going to have to be productive on both of­fense and defense," says DiStanislao. "Dayton's a little more wide-open than they used to be, so we're going to need some strong inside defense and keep them off the boards." 
Once again, the Irish will be looking to junior.Trena Keys to lead the offense. The 6-0 guard-forward has been having her best year, leading the team with her 16.5 points per outing. She has also been grabbing six rebounds per game. Lynn Ebben will also be looked to for some outside scoring as she returns to the starting lineup. Fresh­man point guard Mary Gavin will run the show with senior Laura Doug­herty coming off the bench. 
"The key to beating Dayton will be to get 40 productive minutes from the kids," says DiStanislao. "Dayton doesn't beat itselfeasily . 
"We have to get scoring out of Trena, good shooting out of Lynn, strong efforts off the bench, and good decisions by Mary. If we do that, we should win." 
IRISH ITEMS -The Irish return to the ACC on Saturday at noon to play host to North Star opponent, Xavier. 
---~----~­

The Observer Tuesday, February 5, 1985-page 14 


New Jersey Generals sign Flutie to contract 
Associated Press Young, signed a contract said to be 
worth S40 million over 43 years 

NEW YORK -Doug Flutie, the with the Los Angeles Express of the Heisman Trophy-winning quarter­USFL. Walker, a Heisman trophy­hack from Boston College, signed a winning running back from Georgia, contract with the New Jersey signed a four-year contract with the Generals of the United States Foot­Generals for an estimated S6 mil­hall League yesterday that his lawyer lion. said will make him one ofthe highest Woolf, whose clients include paid athletes in sports. some of the nation's top professional 
"Contracts were executed," Bob athletes, said Flutie's contract could Woolf said last night. lbough he be the most significant with which would give no details, it ha~ been es­he had ever been involved. "It could timated that Flu tie would receive S7 be very historic. It could be like Joe million under a five-year deal with Namath coming to the American Generals owner Donald Trump. Football League." 
"'Ibere's heen all kinds ofspecula­Namath's signing by the New York tion, and most of it has been quite Jets 20 years ago was credited with accurate," Woolf said. "It's a con­giving the AFL the credibility that tract that is deserving of a Doug led to an eventual merger with the Flu tie. I've always said that it's some­National Football League. thing that should be in the vicinity of The document which tied Flutie a Herschel Walker or a Steve Young to the USFL was 50 pages long and and that's what it Is." attorneys for the two sides took l 0 
Young, a quarterback for Brigham days to hammer out the final details. 
Greg Lozinski retires 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Greg Luzinski, one of baseball's most feared power hitters since joining the Philadelphia Phillies in 1970, said yesterday that he was retiring and would become freshman baseball coach at a NewJersey high school. 
"The realization was nobody wanted me," Luzinski said iq an inter­view with USA Today. 
Luzinski, who became a free agent last November after four seaso~ with the American League's Chicago White Sox, was selec­ted only by the Pittsburgh Pirates in the free-agent draft. 
"No team offered him a contract," saidJack Sands, Luzinski's agent. "Because of investments we have made, he will receive $200,000 a year for the rest ofhis life." 
Luzinski, who lives in New Jersey, said he had been appointed freshman haseball coach of Holy Cross High School at Delran, N.J. 
NOTRE DAME AVE. APTS. 
ROOMMATES NEEDED! 
Boys and Girls 
Call office 3-6 DAILY 234-6647 

SKI $389 
per person

SPRING BREAK 

WINTER PARK 
Prices based upon 4 -8 per unit OPTIONAL LIFT TICKETS 
AND RENTALS AVAILABLE 

F?r reservations ask for Dawn Package Includu: 
* Roundtrip non-stop service between South Bend and Depver
. 
• C'hartet' aotorcoach tranafera 

* 
7 night& accommodations at the High Country Raua Condo& 

* 
Daily Ski Shuttle 

* 
All taxu 



~~ource 




-. ravel 

Box 1602 • South Bend, Indiana 46634 • (2111)236-2658 

signing will add credibility to the USFL. See story at left. 
Wednesday, February 6 

QUARTER BEERS @ 
Thursday, February 7 TOGA PARTY 
9-close

$1.00 Mixed Drinks Watch "Animal House" on big screen TV 1 14 oz Bud to anybody in toga 

Friday, February 8 

90~ IMPORTS 9-close 
''The Best Deal in Town" 

Saturday, February 9 

$2.50 pitchers of Bud 9-close "After the Ball Game, Join us for 

a Good Time" 





T0 day___________________
T_u_e_sc:_ia_y_,F_e_b_ru_ary__s,_1_9_s_s__P_ag_e_ls_ 
Doonesbury 
Garry Trudeau 
MIOIAE/..., {)()N7  
I UNP1J.J6613(1  CAN YOU  l&T 7HI5 GET 7D  THANKS, ERN!£.  
IT, OKAY2 I  /J{;/../£Vt 7110SEP£0Pl£?  YOiJ. I'M 5URE BY rrMoi?I<.OW 7H&Y'LL  tM COMIN@ 70 Y(){} UV£3 FROM  
rT5tt.E.vev  ffN{150M£0Ne  7H£HOM£0F  
daoCKifT.  ELSE 7D MAI<E  THe ''§UBWAY 
N16HT!  A HERO OF.  AVEN6ER'!.  
\  
TankMcNamara  Jeff Millar & Bill Hinds  


BlOOtD Connty Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 


The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 31 Go for the win 64 Court action 11 On record 1 Buttons 32 Victory sign 65 Mauna-12 Middling mark 4 Exaggerated 33 Ltd.'s kin 66 Turk. city 13 Time zone 8 Cheerup 35 MD's reading 67 Nobleman letters 
14 "A Chorus line" 36 Divorce 68 Galley 18 Skimming along song 37 Jan. 1 phrase measures 22 Headed bolt 15 Exchange 25 Turf protector 
premium 27 Time of day 41 PuppeteerTony 42 King Kong DOWN 
16 Trapped 43 Salt 1 Like a judge 28 Lunkhead 
17 Oater sound 44 Yoko-2 Glossy paint 29 Attain 
effect 45 Sault -Marie 3 Darcel of 34 Raccoon's 19 Rhyme form 46 Arrest films cousin 20 Jannings of 49 Noted panda 4 Hunterof 35 Summer: Fr. 
old films films 36 Entrances 
5 Over 37 Sari wearer 
52 Dreaded 21 Roman road 54 Cotecall 23 Morse code 55 Surrealist 6 Fuzz 38 Australian 
dash 57 Clothes holder 7 Theater eucalyptus 24 Intention 58 Rival of sections 39 Overturn 26 NY prison Athens 8 Ocean crosser 40 Comfort 30 Castor's 61 Speech pattern 9 Jittery 41 Thesun 
mother 63 More durable 10 "-Theme" 45 Roof repairman 



ampus 

•I2 
p.m.-Colloquium, "When Long-Lasting Mar· riages Don't Last: Middle-aged Divorce as a Transi· tion and a Countertransition," Dr. Hagestad, Library, Haggar Hall. 

•I 
p.m. -Dessert-Card Party, Ladies of Notre D~lffie, University Club. 

•3:30 
p.m.-Graduate Seminar, "Development of Aqueous Size Exclusion Chromatography For Studies of Enzymatic Starch Liquefaction Processes," Prof. James Rollings, Worcester Polytechnic Institute, Mass., Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall. 

•3:30 
-4:30 p.m. · Computer Minicourse, Macintosh Wordprocessing, Room 104 Comput­ing Center, Free, Available to Public, Call239-5604 to Register. 


•·~ p.m. -Research Seminar, "One-Step Integra­tion Methods for Differential Equations," Ingemar Kinnmark, ND, Room 303 Cushing. 
•·i 
p.m.-Swimming, ND Women vs. Kalamazoo, Rockne Memorial. 

•4 
p.m. -Finance Forum, "A Changing Industry: The Community Banker's Perspective," John Moore, The Beach Bank of Vero Beach, Hayes Healy Auditorium. 

•4:30 
p.m. · Biology Seminar, "Microbial Degradation of Hazardous Wastes: A Viable Op­tion," Dr. Charles Kulpa, ND, Room 278 Galvin. 

•6:30 
p.m. -Meeting, Knights of Columbus Offi· cers, K ofC Building. 

•7 
& 9:30p.m. -Film, "National Velvet," Carroll Hall(SMC), $1.50. 

•7 
p.m. · Swimming, ND Men vs. Kalamazoo, Rockne Memorial. 

•7, 
9 & II p.m.· Film, "Casablanca," Engineering Auditorium. 

•7 
p.m.· General Meeting, World Hunger Coali· tion, Center for Social Concerns. 

•7:30 
p.m.· Faculty Senate Meeting, Room 202 CCE. 

•7:30 
p.m.-Finance Forum, "A Changing Indus­try: The Regional Bank's Perspective," John Poelker, Citizens and Southern Georgia Corpora­tion, Hayes Healy Auditorium. 

•7:30 
p.m. · Slide Show, "Space Stations & In­dustrializing the Moon," Little Theatre, LaFortune, Sponsored by L-5 Society. 

•7:30 
& 9:30p.m.· Tuesday Night Film Series, "Day for Night," Annenberg Auditorium. 


©1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
2/5/85
All Rights Reserved 

• 
for late night munchies 
IT'S <~OMING ... FT LAUDERDALE 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
&
the leader in Entertainment 
DAYTONA BEACH
HAS TRIPS TO for FUN in the SUN! 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING ON THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 7 7:00pm in LaFortune Little Theatre 

Tuesday, February 5, 1985-page 16 SRorts 



j Notre Dame fencers humble defending NCAA champions 
By MICHAEL}. CHMIEL  6-3 were an unexpected success and  pleased with the outing as it augurs  
Sports Writer  nice to have according to DeCicco.  well for the future.  
Higgs-Coulthard,  the  1984  na­ "It was our overall team that did it  
In what appears to have been a  tional champion in the foil, was 3-0  and with that type of effort you're  
truly successful weekend for Notre  against  the  Tartans  to  boost  his  bound  to  win," said  DeCicco. "If  
Dame "giant slayers," the Irish men's  season record to a team leading 16­ we're going to have to repeat -that  
fencing team began the bulk of its  1. Van der Velden, at  16-S on  the  is, beat Wayne State later  on  this  
1985  schedule  by  downing  the  year, went 2-1 against Wayne State  month -then we're going to have to  
defending  national  champs  on  and  S-1  over  the  course  of the  use the same type ofgame plan.  
Friday and three other squads onSat­ weekend to lead all fencers.  "However, our number three man  
urday  to  boost  their  unscarred  "If I knew that we were going to  has to beat their number three," he  
•  ~  record to 10-0 in the early going. Friday, the Irish took their 6-0 record to Wayne, Mich., and came away with an impressive 15-12 win against the previously unbeaten Wayne State Tartans.  win the foil6-3, I would expect us to win even bigger than we did be­cause I thought that we were going to win more sabre bouts." In the sabre, the Irish eeked out a 5-4 edge over a young but outstand­ing Wayne State squad. For the Irish,  continued. "Then our number one and number two have to hold their own against their one and two and hopefully win at least two. ""Iltey're actually as tough as I thought that they would be," said DeCicco. "After they lost (Stefan)  
"The kids did a little better job  senior captain Mike janis ( 14.-2) and  Kogler in foil and (Bela) Kogler in  
than I had anticipated," said Irish  junior Tony Consoli ( 10-6) each.had  sabre, they came back with three  
head  coach  Mike  DeCicco.  "The  two wins to go along with a los!>.  kids  who  are  ultimately going  to  
surprise is that we fenced as well as  junior Don johnson ran into some  make a big impact on that team. I just  
Thr Observer/FUr Pbolo we did in balance, and that's what  tough luck from the number  two  have  to prevent them from doing  
won it for us." Foil man Mike Van der Velden guided the Notre Dame fencing  spot as he went 1-2 against the Tar­ that in their freshman year."  
Leading the onslaught ofthe 1984team to an impressive 15-12 victory over defending NOtA national  tans.  On Saturday, the Irish stopped off  
National Championschampions Wayne State last Friday. The win gives Notre Dame a  was  the Irish  "Based on the quality ofour sabre  in  Angola, ln.,  where  they added  
foil squad led by sophomore Charles10-0 season record as the 1rlsh continue their push for the NOtA  team, I thought that we'd win that  three more impressive wins to their  
Higgs-Coulthard and junior captainchampionship. Mike Chmiel details this weekend's bouts at right.  weapon at a minimumof6-3, and we  weekend list. In a 'our-team meet,  
Mike VanderVelden. The foilists at  ended up winning that weapon just  the Irish downed Oklahoma City; 6­ 
S-4," said DeCicco. "I thought that  3,  Tri-State;  18-9,  and  Cleveland  
Last meet in Rock slated for today  the sabre and the foil would be vice­versa ofwhat they turned out to be." In the epee, the Irish experienced  State; 18-9, with a cast of characters as just about every Irish fencer saw action. Individually, Van der Velden,  
By MARY SIEGER  "The pool is scheduled to be done  men's squad defeated Ferris State  a little less success with weak efforts  janis, Consoli, and sophomore Kevin  
Sports Writer  for the next school yt~ar." said Notre  University, a team which tallied a  coming from the number three spot.  Stoutemire went undefeated in four  
Dame  men's  and  women's  swim  black mark in  Notre  Dame's loss  Leading  the  squad, however,  was  matches. Quaroni ( 3-0) and sopho­ 
Today could be your last chance  coach Dennis Stark. "We can hope  column.  senior captain Andy Quaroni ( 1 S-2)  more Tim Vaughan (2-0) also went  
to ever watch a Notre Dame varsity  the new facility will be done."  Last season, the women's squad  and  junior  transfer  Christian  untouched.  
swim meet in the Rockne Memorial  Although  the  Rockne  Memorial  handily defeated Kalamazoo 69-43  Scherpe ( 14-4)  as  they split  the  "It's hard to beat a Wayne State on  
Pool.  Gymnasium  was  originally  dedi­ and the Irish anticipate a repeat per­ squad's four  wins against  an  out­ Friday and not have the momentum  
This afternoon,  both the  men's  cated for non-varsity sports, the Uni­ formance this afternoon. The team is  standing Tartan squad.  carry you past the teams we played  
and women's swim teams will bid  versity allowed varsity swim meets  out to defend its 7-1 season record  Wayne State  was  led by senior  on Saturday," said DeCicco. "I was  
farewell to the Rock when they play  to be conducted in the Rock since it  after  this  weekend's  victory  over  Ettore Bianchi. As the defending na­ pleasantly surprised as our overall  
host to Kalamazoo College for their  housed the only pool  on campus.  Saint Mary's College.  tional champion in the epee, Bianchi  momentum  carried  through  in  
final home meets of the season.  With  the completion of the  new  "I'm  confident  we  can  beat  is continuing to fence well when he  every weapon."  
Barring construction difficulties, a  facility, the Rock will return to its  Kalamazoo," said Cochiolo. "But I'm  joined Higgs-Coulthard as the only  For  the  rest  of  the  schedule,  
new facility will be completed for  primary function for non-varsity ath­ not over-confident.  other unbeaten fencer for the day in  DeCicco believes  that  his fencers  
the  Irish  in  time  for  next  year's  letics.  "Since it's  our  last  meet in the  the men's action.  are ready and able to continue on  
season opener. "Ilte new pool will be  This afternoon, the men's team is  Rock we want to get new records  Forming the list of the winless  their drive for  their first  national  
located behind the ACC and will  looking to improve its 3-4 season  and improve our times," said Coc­ were juniors Brian St. Clair(0-2) and  title in six years.  
launch  Notre  Dame's  swimming  record against Kalamazoo. While the  hiolo. "It's  our  last chance  to set  Mike Gostigian ( 0-1 ). "Between the  "Wayne State matches us man-for­ 
program.  Irish easily defeated Kalamazoo 78­ pool records and get our names in  two of them, they didn't give us a  man and then some,"says DeCicco.  
"We're  excited about  the  new  38 last year, they are anticipating a  posteriety."  bout against them and that concerns  "I know Illinois will match up well  
pool," said Notre Dame women's co­ tough  match  if both  teams  swim  Today's dual meets will also be  me because that becomes our soft  also, but that's later on. Ohio State  
captain Venette Cochiolo. "It won't  well.  the final home meet for the seniors  spot," said DeCicco.  
depress us to leave the Rock."  Earlier this year, the Kalamazoo  on both squads.  Overall, DeCicco was extremely  see FENCERS page 10  

No question about it: defense is the name of the game 
Hello again, everybody! 
Defense. 

Everywhere you look in the papers, they're talking about it these days. Most of the time, it has something to do with news. However, when you're a sports writer, you see how every form ofdefense relates to basketball. 
First, there's the Bernard Goetz vigilante defense. This is a popular item in New York subways and Big Ten arenas. The victims are usually innocent offensive players, who have the great misfortune to be in a game worked by Jim Bain, Tom Rucker or Phil Bova -three officials who are usuaJly so far away from a play they need MCI to make the call. There is no protection from this defense other than a gun or a bruising center. 
Then, there's the insanity defense, used by one of America's numerous attorneys or jerry Tarkanian. While it's popular in law circles, the move hasn't caught on in basketball. Basically, that's because the basic idea behind this defense is not to guard anybody and hope you out­score your opponent. The idea is insane; henceforth, the name. 
Thirdly, there's the Reagan defense plan. This is a stockpiling mauever used to strike fear into the hearts of opponents. This would be similar to getting five Patrick Ewings on your team -it really isn't necessary, but it cer­tainly is intimidating. Unfortunately, it causes great deficits in the bank accounts of recruiters and federal budgets, and isn't feasible. 
Finally, there's the kind of defense that's obnoxiously flashed up on scoreboards to get the fans to yell. It drives the fans into a frenzy, bothers the offense, and makes the defense work even harder. It's exactly the kind ofdefense Digger Phelps' Fighting Irish cagers have been playing lately, and it's the main reason Notre Dame is still looking for an NCAA tournament bid. 
Unfonunately, most players don't like to play defense. 
Chuck Freeby 
Irish Items 


It's not a lot offun to play basketball when you don't have the ball. It's hard work, and not too many people find a lot of enjoyment from going out with four of your friends and chasing a ball around (unless, of course, you'happen to be on a golf course). 
Most fans don't appreciate defense, either. Nobody is going to watch the NBA All-Star Game this Sunday to watch Dr.], Magic, Michael]ordan, and Co. play defense. That's why they have a slam-dunk competition, instead of a taking-the-charge exhibition. When you hear people say a player is a "defensive specialist," chances are his total points could be counted on the prongs ofa fork. 
Basketball coaches love defense, though, because it can make a bad team look good and a good team look great. The offense will cease operating on some days ­take, Notre Dame's loss at Maryland for an example-but if the defense is there, you still have a chance of winning. Against Maryland, the defense took a holiday, and the Irish were beaten. Since that time, it has returned from its one-game hiatus and put the Irish back on track. 
The performance the Irish defense turned in against UCLA was tremendous, even though the only resemblance between the Bruins of today and the teams ofthe Wooden era is the fact they still play their games in Westwood. UCLA still has a good offensive team, as it averaged 72 points a game entering Sunday's contest. Still, Notre Dame played a belly-up man-to-man defense, and the dividend it paid was a big road win. 
Take a look at last Sunday's stats. UCLA shot a mere 42 
percent from the floor and committed 21 turnovers, 
mainly because every man who had the ball had a dark 
blue jersey in his face. Reggie Miller scored hL'> average 
( 14 points), but shot a horrible 4-of-11 from the field. 
Nigel Miguel and Gary Maloncon scored well below their 
double-digit averages, and therein lies the reason for vic­
tory. 

The defense has been a carryover from last year's team, 
which managed to shut down high scorers like Washing­
ton's DetlefSchrempf, Villanova's Ed Pinckney, and Brig­
ham Young's Devin Durrant. While it appeared early in 
the season that Notre Dame may be able to run oppo­
nents out of the gym at will, this team has once again 
shown that you can't win without defense and you can 
win with it. 

Now LaSalle comes into the ACC tommorow with a 
pair ofbig guns in Ralph Lewis and Steve Black. After that, 
Syracuse pays a visit Saturday with offensive weapons like 
Pearl Washington, Rafael Addison, and Andre Hawkins. It 
will certainly be a challenge for the Irish, but it's certainly 
not anything that Notre Dame cannot overcome by using 
the Speed Limit defense. 
The speed limit defense? Yeah, that's where you keep your opponent under 55. 
Pick ofthe Week ... It's a big intra-state rivalry next Tuesday night when the Irish wrestlers play host to the Hoosiers of Indiana. There won't be anybody being thrown into the turnbuckles or over the top rope, but there will be plenty of physical action in the Auxiliary Gymat7p.m. 
First-year coach Fran McCann's team is 6-2, and has the toughest part ofthe schedule coming up. They could use your support in their final home meet of the year. So take this chance to see some "Tuesday Night Titans" of a dif­ferent sort next week at the ACC. 








