Tuition -page 3 

VOL XX, NO.2 the indl'Jll'lllk•ll ~llldcnt ncw~papn ~lT' ing notn dallll' and ~aint mar:·~ TIJESDAY, AUGUST 27, 1985 

Investment policy studied by Trustees 
By SCOIT BF.ARBY 
Assistant News Editor 
In the wake of increased focus on South Africa and its apartheid sys­tem, the Notre Dame Board ofTrus­tees established a committee to evaluate current University invest­ment practices with companies in that country. 
Yesterday, the Board of Trustees Ad Hoc Committee on South African Investments met to review its policy statement and make necessary proposals to the Board ofTrustees. 
According to committee mem­hcrs Father Oliver Williams, profes· sor in management, and .John Dettling, head ofthe student govern· ment University Investment Practices Committee, a tentative proposal was completed at the meeting, which will be made into a final draft. 
Neither member could elaborate on the specifics of the recommenda­tion because of an agreement by the committee not to discuss the proposal until the final draft is sent back to them. The t·ommittee mem­bers then will approve the recom­mendation or meet again for modifications. 
According to Dettling, not releas­ing proposed changes to the general public until after the Board of Trus­
tees  are  informed  is  normal  
procedure.  
Williams  did  say "all  relevant  

issues" ofthe South African situation were discussed with much debate. The committee evaluated the cur­rc:nt set of standards on investing In companies in South Africa passed in 197H. 
The 197H policy statement In part called for companies to "adopt prin· ciples, such as the Sullivan Prin­ciples, whose objective is to provide opportunities and employment practices for non-whites." Failure of companies to abide by the policy statement would mean possible ac­tion by the University. 
According to Williams, the ad hoc committee was formed in response to increased awareness of the apar­theid system, particularly by stu· dents. Dettling attributed the additional attention to the efforts of Government and International Studies Professor and Director ol African Studies A. Peter Walshe and student government at Notre Dame. 
Both Walshe and three student government representatives also served on the ad hoc committee. Dettling said they had an active voice in the committee and were treated as equal members. He added that this opportunity is the "farthest students have progressed in Univer­sity decision-making." 
The committee members also in­cluded Bill Healy, student body president; Pat Baccanari, a member of the student government South African Investment Practices Com­mittee; Thomas P. Carney, Notre Dame ·Board of Trustees chairman; John Caron, trustee; Phillip J. Fac­cenda, trustee; Lee A. Tavis, business department professor; and Robert Wilmouth, University Investment Committee chairman. 
According to Williams and Det­tling, the committee's final draft of the proposal will be sent to the Board of Trustees and voted on at their October meeting. Williams, however, did add that Carney could caU a meeting of the Board of Trus­tees Executive Committee and have · them vote on the recommendation before the general meeting. 


Under the stars 

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students were Fieldhouse Mall. "Stutz" entertained the crowd treated to an open air concert last night on the during their last night before the start ofclasses. 
Citizens raise stink over ethanol; demand elimination of foul odor 
By DAN McCULLOUGH cooperating with New Energy tag of S5 million, is similar to one 
News Editor management in attempting to find used at the Hiram WaUu:r distillery ways to control the: odor, South in Windsor, Ontario. Bend Mayor Roger 0. Parent has Representatives of the: mayor's 
After a summer away from South conceded that a solution is a long office traveled to Canada In July to Bend, students returning to campus way off. observe the system at work. may have been surprised to smell On July 18, New Energy con-The whiskey deodorizing system the odor of ethanol still lingering in ducted an odor neutralization ex-is much smaller than the one: being the air. periment which injected a considered for South Bend, which 
The odor from the ethanol plant deodorizing chemical into the: would be unprecedented In size: and on the city's west side, which is stacks through which the odor-cost, according to engineers from owned and operated by the New causing particles travel. New Energy. Officials at the com-Energy Company of Indiana, has A volunteer sniffing committee of pany have said the system would 
been a source of controversy and complaints among the citzens of South Bend as well as among mem­bers of the Notre Dame community since the plant opened late last fall. 
The odor comes from the plant's grain dryers and is vented into the atmosphere in particle form through huge stacks. The: odor varies in in­tensity, but on some: days it can be smelled as far away as Elkhart and Granger. 
Although city officials have been citizens and city .officials sat in a field probably take more than a year to downwind from the ethanol plant design and build. while the deodorizer was pumped Meanwhile, as tests continue at into the stacks. The committee was the ethanol plant, the mayor has said doubtful of the deodorizer's ability the city cannot afford to pay for the to deodorize and results of the: ex-system. New Energy said it cannot periment are inconclusive. afford the system either and has re· 
On July 24, a dosed-loop odor quested the city to assist in locating control system was named as the federal aid or other outside financ­ideal solution to the ethanol ing for the project. problem by New Energy general But Parent said outside: funding plant manager Billy Cribbs. 
The system, which carries a price see ETHANOL, page 7 


LaFortune robbery investigated 
By KEITH HARRJISONJR. 
News Editor 
Notre Dame: Security still is inves­tigating last week's theft at LaFortune Student Center, in which two pieces of furniture and Student Body President BilJI Healy's office keys were stolen. 
Acouch, a chair, tour keys to stu­dent government ofllces and several office items were taken during the theft, which occurred between 8 
p.m. Thursday and 8 a.m. Friday, ac­cording to Glenn Terry, director of Security. 
The: two-cushion couch, taken from the main lobby, would cost '300 to replace, said Brother Francis Gorch, manager of LaFortune. 
But Terry is trying to avoid replac­ing it. He has given a description of the couch to residence hall maids and janitors and asked them to caU Security ifthey see it. 
Although Terry suspects students were responsible for the theft, he Is not sure the couch will be returned. 
"Some of the maids and janitors may be afraid of student retaliation and others just won't want to get in­volved," he said. 
The other items were: taken from the lobby ofthe student government office on the second floor of LaFortune. 
"The: most serious items taken here were our office keys," Healy said. Keys to Student Body Vice President Duane Lawrence's office, Student Activities Comptroller Jack Gallagher's office and the student government computer room also were stolen, Healy said 
The keys were: taken from Student Activities Board secretary Margaret Unhart's desk, which was not locked, said Healy. 
"We've already had the locks on those offices changed, and we've started a new policy for the front glass doors," he said. 
The front doors of the student governmc:nt office now will be locked at 4:30 p.m. and unlocked at 8 a.m., according to Unhart. The doors previously were locked at 1 I 
p.m. by Security and opened at ap­proximately 5:30 a.m. by janitors, she: said 
A captain's chair, a Notre Dame: football poster, a desk stapler and Unhart's six-inch trophy from the student body class of 1983 were the other Items taken from the: student government office. 
see THEFf, page 4 

SMC chief hunt continues 
By THERESA GUARINO ing and reviewing data at this Saint Mary's Executive Editor point," she said. The: committee met regularly 
The search goes on at Saint over the: summer, beginning its Mary's, lL'i the College continues work by advertising and solicit· its hunt for a new president to ing by mail and word of mouth. 
replace John Duggan, who Two publications carried ad­resigned last February. vertisements for the position. 
William Hickey, former vice One:, The: Chronical of Higher president and dean offaculty, has Education, Feigl called "a taken the position ofacting presi· primary journal that would reach dent since July 1. Dorothy Feigl, those most interested in the posi­chairwoman of the chemistry tion." An advertisement was also and physics department, has placed in The New York Times. replaced Hickey as acting vice In addition, the committee: president. made "widespread contact" with 
Last spring, the Board of educators around the country. Regents appointed a search com­"We: sent letters all over, to presi­mittee to find candidates to dents of colleges around the recommend to the Executive country to solicit nominees," Governing Board of the Board of Feigl said."We also took recom­
Rc:gents, the administrative mendations from f:lculty and members of the College. The alumnae." search committee: includes Feigl called the response: 
rc:gc:nts, f:lculty and student "pretty good" In terms of those rc:presentatives. who replied. 
Student Body President Anne "A number were: nominated Marie: Kollman is a committee: and contacted," she: said. "The: member. "My role is student in­pool is there." put," she said. "I think I can make The mechanics of advertising 
a pretty big contribution." was the committee's first job. Let­
The: committee is still In the ters were: then sent out to those recruiting stages ofwork, accord­recommended, informing them Ing to Feigl, who is spokewoman oftheir nominations. for the group. "We're still gather-
see PRESIDENT, page 5 
------------~­

The Observer Tuesday, August 27, 1985 -page 2 
r 
~ 
I 
r r 
I 
r 



In Brief 
Gerard Patrick McCormick, 24, a 1984 
graduate of Notre Dame, was killed July 28, 1985 in a one-car acci­dent in Erie, Penn. Since graduating with an economics degree, he had been associated with his father and uncle's business, the Joseph McCormick Construction Co. Survivors include two brothers at­tending Notre Dame, Patrick McCormick, a senior in the American studies program and Peter McCormick, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters. His father, John J. McCormick, was a 1953 graduate of Notre Dame and another of his five brothers, Owen McCormick graduated from Notre Dame in 1985. His fiance, Mary T. Welden, was a 1983 graduate ofSaint Mary's College.-The Observer 
Dr. Thomas B. pay, a Notre Dame alumnus and president of San Diego State University, was nominated last June by President Reagan to membership on the National Science Board. The Board is the policy making body ofthe National Science Founda­tion. -The Observer 
University President Father Theodore Hesburgh has been named one ofthree recipients ofthe first John W. Gardner Leadership Award ofthe Independent Sector. The award honors the founder ofCommon Cause who is also a director ofthe Independent Sector, a national forum to encourage giving, volunteering and not­for-profit initiative. -The Observer 
Dr. Thomas Bergin, dean of continuing education, has been elected president of the South Bend Symphony Orchestra Association. A former member of the President's National Council for the Arts, Bergin has served on numerous arts, education and service boards at the national, state and local level. He has been a member of the faculty at Notre Dame since 1947 and dean since 1964.-The Observer 
Dr. K.T. Yang, professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering and a noted researcher in the development ofcomputer models that describe the spread of smoke and fire, has been ap­pointed to the Viola D. Hank Chair in the College of Engineering. Yang has had 45 of his research projects funded by the federal government and he is author of dozens of technical publications. ­
The Observer 
Sister MaryJane Griffin has been named acting director of the Center for Social Concerns at Notre Dame. The ap­pointment is for the 1985-86 academic year during which Donald P. McNeill, director since the Center was established in 1982, will be on medical leave. -The Observer 
Of Interest 
The CrazyShirtor Shorts Ice Cream Social is scheduled for 5:30p.m. today on the Fieldhouse Mall. Those with proper attire will be served 90 g:inons of ice cream. The event, sponsored by the junior class, will feature music by a disc jockey and is open to all students. -The Observer 
Free tickets to seeJames Mapes, hypnotist extraordinaire, will be distributed in the record store, the Student Activities Board office and the Student Activities office in LaFortune. -The Observer 

Weather 
Butwill it last? Historically, it has not, so enjoy this great weather while you still can see the grass. Partly sunny skies are expected today with highs from 75 to 80. Fair skies are forecast tonight with lows in the mid 50s. Mostly sunny skies are expected tomorrow with highs near 80. -AP 


The _-ObserYer­
Today's issue was produced by: lbe Obeerver (USPS 599 2-4000) Is published Monday through Friday and 
Design Editor................... Thomas R. Small on home football Saturdays, except 
Typesetter.......................... M. E. Harrington during exam and vacation periods. lbe 
News Editor .............................Scott Bearby Obeerver Is published by the students of 
Copy Editor....................... Mark Pankowski the University of Notre Dame and Saint Sports Copy Editor .................. Larry Burke Mary's College. Subscriptions may he 
Viewpoint Copy Editor. M. E. Harrington purchased for 130 per year ( f 20 per se· 
Viewpoint lAyout................John Mennell mester) by writing lbe Observer, P.O. 
Features Copy Editor...............Mary Healy Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Features Layout........................ Mary Healy lbe Obeerver is a memher of 1be 
AdDesign ................... Mary Carol Creadon Associated Press. All reproduction 
Photographer.................. Johannes Hacker rights are reserved. 


Students pay price for education 
Seven hundred and sixty-five dollars would buy a decent stereo system, a big-screen television or a used car. It would also pay for this year's tuition increase at Notre Dame. 
As inevitable as the W-2 forms that arrive inJanuary is the annual August letter from Father Hesburgh an­nouncing next year's tuition increase. 
This year the increase was 10.8percent-nearly three
times the current rate ofinflation. Notre Dame's tuition increase was certainly not the only university's to out­strip the rate of inflation. The average tuition increase for private universities this year was 7.6 percent, ac­cording to the College Board. 
H this rate ofincrease continues, this year's freshmen will be paying $10,671 for tuition alone by the time they are seniors. 
When we enrolled here, we knew a Notre Dame education would not be cheap. We realized we could have attended less expensive schools, but we chose to pay the diffence and study 
Amy Stephan 
Managing Editor 

---------------------­
We chose to attend a top University and must pay to keep it there. 
Those who attend Notre Dame generally make a commitment to graduate from ~otre Dame. Why pay for three years of a Notre Dame education only to bail out the fourth year and graduate from another school because you are unwilling to foot a $765 increase? 
Financial aid, however, should keep pace with tuition increases. No one owes us a Notre Dame education; but ifNotre Dame wants to attract top students, as it wants 
to attract top faculty, it must 
here. be willing to pay. 
Sometimes, however, we Thomas Mason, vice do and should question just president for business af­what we are paying for. This fairs, said in an interview year's tuition increase is with an Observer reporter being directed to two main "We certainly don't want to areas: faculty and facilities. become a rich-students-only 
The salaries for faculty university." Notre Dame is members at Notre Dame comprised of many middle have, after a six-year cam­to upper-middle class stu­paign, reached the top 20 dents. Were this to change, percent of faculty salaries in the character of the Univer­the nation. Six years ago, the sity would change sig­salaries for some levels of nificantly. And this would be faculty members could only ashame. reach the top 60 percent Notre Dame now doles nationwide. out financial aid to 66 per­
A school the caliber of Notre Dame should pay their faculty members well. Notre Dame could not hope to attract and keep a.strong faculty unless professors were adequately paid. 
Also, new positions were created in the business and engineering schools. Students in these colleges will at­test to the fact that often their departments are under­staffed and their classes ridiculously large. Once again, this seems a necessary improvement. 
Part of the $765 tuition increase will pay for main­tenance on new buildings. Although new construction, most notably the new swimming facility in the ACC, were funded primarily by donations and grants, the up­keep on these buildings must come out of the Univer­sity's annual budget. The new aquatic facility, for example, will cost $310,000 annually to maintain. 
We could all live with the Rockne pool for a few more years, but when offered an exciting new facility it would be insane to turn it down because we were un­willing to foot the maintenance bill. 
Thus it seems the tuition increase was well-founded. 
cent of the student body, 
and the average amount is 
more than S5000. This figure, however, is deceiving as it includes ROTC and athletic scholarships which are available only to stu­dents who are willing to make special commitments outside oftheir regular classwork. 
According to Mason, the University has a goal to raise the financial aid endowment from S30 million to S90 million. The administration should stick to this commit­ment and make it a reality, just as they made increased faculty salaries a reality. 
The University must show the same commitment to the students that it does to the faculty. It must keep its promises. 
Welcome back. And enjoy your year at Notre Dame. 
You're paying for it. 


(1/2 mile s.,uth of University Parkmall) 277·5900 
AM.RICA'S LARGaST CARPaT RaTAJLaR•••OII.R 70 OUTLaYS ----------....1 
r---------------------------------------------------·--------------------------------------­The Observer 
Tuesday, August 27, 1985 -page 3 
ND tuition/living fees increase; 


NAUGLES 
24 HOUR DRIVE THRU 
UMIT ONE COUPON PER CUSTOMER 

NOT YAUD WITH ANY OTHER PROMOnONAL OFFER 
EXPIR£5 8-31-85 

NAUGLES 24 HOUR DRIVE THRU 
501 DIXIEWAY NORTH, ROSELAND 272-5455 
BUY' ONE NAUGLE BURGER ET ONE NAUGLE BURGER FRE 

college costs escalate nationwide 
By MARK PANKOWSKI 
CopyEdttor 
Notre Dame students and their parents again received bad news in a letter from the administration last june. 
The bad news: Notre Dame's cur­rent budget of S162,664,700 depends on an Increase In tuition and fees. 
Undergraduate tuition will rise this year by almost three times the current rate of inflation, and the average room, board and laundry charge will increase by more than twice the current inflation rate. 
The 1985 inflation index is run­ning at 3.7 percent, yet tuition this year increased by 10.8 percent, up S765 to $7845. The average room, board and laundry charge was in­creased by 7.65 percent, from S2365 to 12545. 
Graduate school tuition rose 11 percent, to S7650; the Law School 13 percent, to S8260; and the regular· M.B.A. program I 1 percent, to S7750. 
The increase is nothing new, however. Last year, undergraduate tuition rose by 9.76 percent, the average room and board charge 6.7 percent, graduate school 9 percent, Law School 12 percent, and the regular M.B.A. program 9 percent. 
The bad news of tuition Increases wasn't confined only to the Notre Dame campus, however. 
According to the College Board Annual Survey of Colleges, the average tuition and fees at four-year public institutions this year were 9 percent more than last year, to U 243; for four-year private schools, $5418, an 8 percent increase. 
The average room and board charge for students living in a dorm also jumped. For a public institution, the figure this year was up 9.67 per­cent, to an average of S2473; for 
private  schools  6.18  percent,  to  
S2781,  according  to  the  College  
Board.  

The reasons for the rise in costs at Notre Dame were many and varied, acc9rding to Thomas Mason, vice pre,ident for business affairs. 
Ainons those reasons cited by Mason ~9r the tuition increase were .irltlation, the pay raise given to the University staff, new academic programs and positions, rising In­surance costs, new library books and the expense ofoperating new build­ings. 
Salaries and benefits for the Uni­versity's staff, said Mason, are a large part of the budget. Because the Uni­versity had a goal of having its faculty salaries in the top 20 percent in the country, for the past six years the administration has given the faculty an annual pay raise averaging 9 percent. 
"The University is trying to upgrade the quality of the faculty," said Mason. "This increases our ability to attract better faculty by having salaries that are competitive with other universities." 
The new pool, to open in Septem­ber or October, had an operating cost of S31 0,000 built into the budget, said Mason. 
"We also have a flow of students from one specialty to another," said Mason, explaining that the colleges of business and engineering need to hire extra faculty to handle addi­tional students entering those 
programs. 
Although the other departments are losing students, he said, "They're only losing two or three students in each class so you can't take away a position." 
The reason for the hike In the room and board charge, said Mason, Is because Notre Dame is spending S2 million per year to fund dor­mitory renovations. 
"We're putting a lot ofmoney that comes out of the room, board and laundry funds back Into student benefits," said Mason. 
The Increase doesn't seem to be discouraging new students from en­rolling, however. There are ap­proximately I,830 students In this year's freshman class as opposed to 1,790 last year and 1,775 the year before. 
Neither has there been an in­crease In the number of students withdrawing because they're unable to bear the added expense, said Ed­
win  Harris,  associate  director  of  
financial aid  .•  
"I  think  It's  a  combination  of  

families digging deeper and borrow­ing more," said Harris. 
Mason, who helps determine the University's budget each year, can relate to those families, as he too has children attending Notre Dame. 
"I'm cognizant of the parents' situation," said Mason. "These are more than just figures to me ... I look at both sides of the coin when I'm looking at the budget." 
Three new trustees named to board 
lege, South Hadley, Mass.; james A graduate of Yale, Rinehart has
Speclal to The Observer Rinehart, chairman of the board of done post-baccalaureate study In Notre Dame added three persons the Clark Equipment Co., South law and In management at Harvard to its board oftrustees in june. Bend, Ind.; and Alfred Stepan, dean University. They are Elizabeth T. Kennan, 
of the faculty of international and An authority on Latin American at­president of Mount Holyoke Col-
public affairs at Columbia Univer-fairs, Stepan is the author of sity. numerous monographs and two A specialist in medieval monas-books, one dealing with Peru, the ot­tlcism and Intellectual history, her Brazil. Kennan has published extensively and lectured in colleges and unlver-His father, Alfred C. Stepan, who sities in the United States and died last year, was for many years a abroad. trustee of Notre Dame. 
~----------------· 
I ~...t~ I
I ~rit II ADEup.zzLIA 1 
II II 
I WELCOME BACK SPECIAL: 
$5buysyou 1 I a large pizza with 1 I 2 items with this ad. 1 I "We're Talkin' Quality" 1
I I
1151 Portzlge Avenue 
I 

one block north of Portage 
·-----------------· 
Saint Mary's students! 

THE ~ES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
Open Monday -Saturday 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
Extended Hours 

Tuesday, August 27 and Wednesday, August 28 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. 
YOUR FUI.l..-SERVICE COlLEGE S'IDRE 

BICYCLE B®NUS 
Register to win a FIRENZE 12-SPHD BIKE. fill out the cou­pon t return it to the Bookstore. No purchase required. 
NAME 
ADDRESS 


New student affairs position filled 
By LYNNE R. STRAND 
StaffReporter 
There is a new lady at Notre Dame -but this time she is under the gol­den dome. 
Dr. Ann M. Firth was appointed to the newly created position of direc­tor of residence life by the Office of Student Affairs last June. 
Firth, who assumed her new posi­tion in August, described herself as the "primary hearing officer" dealing with University policies. 
As director, Firth handles all viola­tions of University regulations severe enough to be referred to Stu­dent Affairs. 
Such violations include the al­cohol policy, pareitals, theft, and property damage. One or two cases have already been reported, .. said Firth, but they were not serious. 
As part of new role, Firth will be working closely with Dr. John Goldrick, associate vice president for residence life. 
"The primary purpose for creat­ing this position is because residen-
Theft 
continuedjrompage 1 
The thieves probably entered and exited through the main doors of LaFortune, according to Joni Neal, director ofstudent activities. 
"The front doors were locked, but they were probably opened by someone already inside the build­ing," Neal said. "That door has a crash bar which leaves the door un­locked if you're not careful to replace it when you go out. 
"Someone in the building probably left and didn't know about the crash bar," she added. "That left the front doors open for anyone to come in and take the couch." 
r 
I I 
r 
I 
tial life is so important and large. Goldrick couldn't be solely respon­sible (for residential matters)," said Father David Tyson, vice president for student .affairs. "Now that area can be put in its proper place and expand (the position's) respon­sibilities." 
The new director position waS formed this year because the budget allowed the necessary funds, said Goldrick. 
"We want policy decisions that benefit the students," said Firth, ex­plaining the approach that she hoped to take in dealing with judi­cial matters. She added that ex­tremely difficult decisions will arise when suspension or dismissal is re­quired, or when serious injury or death result from a student's actions. 
"Such decisions also hurt those making them," she said, explaining the difficulty of making certain deci­sions. 
Firth, formerly of Chicago, received her bachelor's degree from Notre Dame in 1981 and a law degree in 1984, "I never thought 
A student band was rehearsing in the ballroom from 7 p.m. to 11 p.m. and various class officers and Obser­ver employees also were working in the building at the time, Neal said. 
She did not give the names of the band members. "I don'twant to have them accused of something they didn't have anything to do with," she said. 
The class officers and Observer employees entered through the north doors, which had been left open for them by Security, she added. 
Neal said the couch could not have been taken through the north doors because the main lobby is separated from that area by a door which was locked at the time. 
someday I'd be working here ... This 
is something I'm very excited about, 
and I'm very well aware ofstudents' 
concerns." 
Firth's appointment is a positive step toward reconciliation of the academic and social life, "a recon­vergence of both centers," said Tyson. 
Said Goldrick, "There's a great op­portunity for the residentiality of Notre Dame to expand and in­tegrate" the academic and social aspects of the University. He cited hall fellows and faculty parties as answers to residential and academic 
problems. 
Before assuming her new posi­tion, Firth worked as a litigator for Orner, Wasserman, and Moore in Chicago. 

The Observer /Hannes Hacker
Room shortage? 
There's no shortage ofrooms at Walsh hall, yetone would never know it by the looks of tbts hallway. Walsh is just one ofmany balls around campus where it seems there's as much furniture in the hallways as there is in the rooms. 
Welcome Baptist Students 
BAPTIST Student Union 
Bible Study ­
Join Us! 


Fellowship -Fun 
* Monday, September 9, 1985 *.Time: 7p.m.
* At the Bulla House 

* 

CAN YOU AFFORD TO PASS UP LUNCH at 
The 

Legendary Faculty Dining Room 
New New 

BUFFET SERVICE 
(Grand Opening) Starting Aug.27, 1985-11:30-1:15 p.m. 
Come to dine by two's and we will Pay for one -Opening Day only 
***************** 
$2.99 Buffet 

***************** 
Another Innovative New Service to the Community For Information Call-Host John Gerrity ... 7518 

The Observer 
.~1>· 
... ­
'~ 
. 
The Oblctver/Hannes Hacker

High steppin' 
Tbe born section tries to step a little higher during yesterday's band practice. With tbe 1985 football season looming on tbe horizon, tbe Notre Dame Marching Band is almost ready ... just a little more marching. 
President 
Tuesday, August 27, 1985-page 5 
'Merc3rkiller' receives no mercy from Florida cabinet members 
Assoclated Press 
TAllAHASSEE, Fla. -A 76-year-old 
man sentenced to life In the "mercy 
killing" of his wife lost his bid for 
freedom yesterday when two more 
Florida Cabinet members rejected 
the governor's recommendation to 
free him while he appeals his mur­
der conviction. 
"The law does not give one per­
son the right to kill another because 
of illness or age," said ComptroUer 
Gerald Lewis, the last of the six­
member Cabinet to take a stand on 
the case ofRoswell Gilbert. 
Lewis' decision left Gov. Bob Graham with only two of the three votes required from members ofthe independently elected Cabinet to al­low Gilbert to leave A von Park Cor­rectional Institution near Tampa. 
"The law does not provide that an adult who commits a criminal act shall be judged acc:ording to age," Lewis said. 
Agriculture Commissioner Doyle Conner announced earlier yester­day that he would not support con­ditional commutation for Gilbert, who was convicted in May of first­degree murder. 

Sunshine Promotions Present 
The Guitar Virtuoso is coming to South Bend!! 
Friday, Septe·..nber 6 8:00p.m. Morris Civic Auditorium 
All seats reserved $13 .00 
Tickets available at the Century Center Box Office, Night Winds (Niles and Mishawaka), J.R.'s (La Porte) and Supersounds (Elkhart). 
.•.Don't miss .the hoffest Gulla 
"Mr. Gilbert made a choice 
outside the system, and now he's 
embroiled in the system," Conner 
said. "I don't want to change the sys­
tem to suit him." 

Graham had recommended 
Thursday that Gilbert be allowed to 
pursue his appeals from the Fort 
Lauderdale condominium where he 
twice shot his wife, Emily, after 
giving her a sedative. 
Mrs. Gilbert, 73, su1fered from Alzheimer's disease, a progressive deterioration of the brain, and os­teoporosis, ·a painful ailment that causes deterioration ofbones. 
Gilbert's attorneys said he killed 
her out of love and no criminal 
thoughts were involved. 
But prosecutors noted that Gil­bert had to reload the pistol before firing the second shot and con­tended that he killed his wife be­cause she had become a burden. 
Conner and Lewis joined Attorney General Jim Smith and In­surance Commissioner Bill Gunter in opposing clemency for Gilbert. 
Education Commissioner Ralph Turlington and Secretary of State George Firestone had supported the governor's recommendation. 
continuedfrom page 1 
Committee members will gat­her and review credentials, then narrow the choices down before recommending candidates to the Board ofRegents. 
There is no limit on the num­ber of candidates that can be presented to the board. "The 
PHOTOGRAPHERS 
-.,. t.= 
~·.___ ,.../.' ~-.-:.: t 
.....fllflll/1111'' ¥'II/III ~ 
~~ ~) . 
The Observer Photo Staff Needs YOU *Many paid positions available *B&W darkroom exp. crucial *Own equipment necessary 
Pick up an application and job description at the Observer office, Jrd floor LaFortune or call Pete at 239-5313 
The lkliversity of Notre Dame Department of Cormulication and Theatre amomces 
Auditions 
for the Notre Dame/Satnt Mary's Theatre production of 
End of tbe World by Arthur~ 
Ttvsday, August 29 at 7:JO pm. Friday, August JO at 7:30pm 
at the washington Hall Main Theatre 
auditions are open to all Notre o.ne and Saint Mlr(s students no experience Is necessry no prepared monologue Is required 
call-backs will be SU'lday, September I, at 1:00pm. for Information caii239-SIJ4 
AUDITIONSAUDITIONSAUDITI 
Conner said he hoped his decision would send a message to young people who lose touch with their el­derly parents. 
"I'm condemning young people who live on Wall Street and practice law and go to banks and offices every day and have elderly parents in Florida and don't know what's hap­pening to them," Conner said. 
"I think Florida is going to suffer as a result of this. But most Impor­tantly, elderly people, senior citizens In our state are the ones who are really suffering." 
Conner said his office had received calls on the case from across the nation and said he spoke with one ofGilbert's neighbors who was uncomfortable about the pos­sibility of the retired engineer returning home. 
"We are receiving messages from all over the country," Conner said. "They're rather indignant. Mr. Gil­bert did not have the solution to this serious problem. 
"There were some alternatives. I regret that Mr. Gilbert did not pursue those alternatives." 
Gilbert has been In prison since he was convicted In May. 
search committee has no precise number In mind," Feigl said. "We're simply looking for good candidates." 
January, 1986, will not neces­sarily find Saint Mary's with a new president. As of right now, there Is no real target date for the com­mittee to finish Its work, she said. 
According to Felgl, "We'll take the time we need to get the per­son we need." 

1 1 


APPhoto 
LOWENBRAU

film 
24 bottles 

~ Reg$10.99
.. 
lDWENDRAU 
$9•99 
.
fii) 
~ 
lOwENBRAu 
the beliefthat peace can be achieved and maintained by mankind." 
At the scene, most of the wreckage was unrecognizable, ex­cept for a tire dangling from a tree, a partially buried piece of the cockpit and a charred section ofthe tail. The plane had skidded for about I 00 feet, leaving a trail of jagged metal and luggage, before going over an embankment and landing in a ravine in the woods. 
"It will be a matter of months" 
before the cause can be determined, 
said National Transportation Safety 
Board member Patrick Bursley. 
One woman who lives near the 
crash site said the plane barely 
missed her house and sheared offthe 
tops of tall pine trees in her front 
yard. 

A memorial service for Samantha and her father was planned for tomorrow at St. Mary's Roman Cat­holic Church in Augusta, said Ted Warren, a friend ofthe family. 
Samantha Smith, the thirteen-year-old girl who visited the Soviet Union as a guest ofthe late Soviet leader YuriAndropov, was one of eight victims who died in a fiery plane crash yesterday. See story left. 
h1ote;8r~ow1110Mj 
U-HAUL 
REFRIGERATORS For Rent 
(New 2.6 Cubic ft. Models) 
Call 282-2801 for student rate 
3410 Western Ave 

Get downto business faster. With the BA-35. 
If there's one thing business calculations, amortizations students have always needed, and balloon payments. this is it: an affordable, busi-The BA-35 means you ness-oriented calculator. spend less time calculating, The Texas Instruments and more time learning. One BA-35, the Student Business keystroke takes the place Analyst. of many. 
Its built-in business The calculator is just part formulas let you perform of the package. You also get complicated finance, a book that follows most accounting and statistical business courses: the Business functions -the ones that Analyst Guidebook. Business usually require a lot of time professors helped us write it, A powerful combination. 
Think business. With the BA-35 Student _f;I Business Analyst. ~ 
TEXAS 
INSTRUMENTS 
Creating useful products and services for you. 

The Observer Tuesday, Augu~ 27, 1985 -page 7 

Alumni given university honors, Mazzoli among the recipients 
Special to The Observer 
The Rev.JohnJ. Cavanaugh C.S.C. Award, presented for the first time this year, will be given to Congres­sman Romano L. Mazzoli of Ken­tucky, a 1950 graduate who has been a leader in immigration reform in America. 
The award is named for the Uni­versity's 14th president and honors a former student "performing out­standing service in the field of government, patriotism, public service and local, state or national politics." 
Mazzoli has served as a U.S. representative since 1970 and is Varsity football player Hiawatha Francisco makes sure his chairman of the House Judiciary registration fonn is completed so he can take his key role on the Committee's Subcommittee on Im­field thisfall. Most students spent partofyesterday officially regis­migration, Refugee·s and Interna­teringfor classes. tional Law. He is also active on the District of Columbia and Small Busi­
~ ..... ~ ...... ~~~~~.._..~~.-.~ ...... ~~~ 
f .JUDGE FOR YOURSELF THE MERITS 
t t t 
t OF OUR LSAT REVIEW PROGRAM! 
t 
: You are c~~=~~:~;~;d tHO 
a free 1 Stanley · 
to the

t seminar . coursef Kaplan reVIeW 
1

L.SAT e xarn t tor thef \T .AT\ oN-4r d Ctr· 
4rIN\1 IT K.eplen e .f S1:.anle)' H· a-nd~-· .A135
212

"\f\/hO'· ~~\~1'4~ _,., ...... 
1717

t . so"'" --· B91:.' ,
f "\f\/here· dSY• p..JJQ· at7prf'\nuref "\f\/hen: 
t •••Take a practice LSAT 1Un1•1mul exam. •-Moot with ond talk to tho Stonloy H.
t Kaplon U!AT inatruotor. ' ~~ tl ' -n. •••Roviow our oourao utorial•• volu­
.,.. II •1noua topioal aupplo•ontary toata

f ~ ond tap••• Rol:ouod U!AT .,...., CINTBI on4 ho•o-atwly ..teriala. 
t ------...AINiolut.ly no obliption. Lf~~~~~~~~AJlOJ::L ~A~ ~R~I§J..T.J.J~ 
f ness committees. 
t 
A former member of the national alumni board and a 1985 honorary 
t 
degree recipient at Notre Dame, het will receive the award at an October 18 meeting of the national board on 
t 
the campus. The University of Notre Dame 
Alumni Association will present
t 

awards to three former students during activities planned on the campus this fall. Two of the awards for distinguished service were recently established and will be presented for the first time. 
The Rev. William Corby C.S.C. Award, honoring Notre Dame's third president and noted Civil War chaplain, will be given to Monsignor Francis Sampson, assistant for ROTC to Notre Dame's president, Father Theodore Hesburgh. 
The award, to be presented during the football game with Navy on November 2, is intended for a former student, living or deceased, "who has exemplified the values and true spirit of Notre Dame while ser­ving in the active or reserve armed forces." 
Monsignor Sampson, a 1937 graduate, jumped with the 101stAir­borne Division during the Nor­mandy invasion in June, 1944. He was awarded the second highest American military award, the Distin­guished Service Cross, after being wounded while ministering to 14 servicemen who were unable to return with their groups to safer areas. 
He was twice captured by the Germans In subsequent action. 
This year's Harvey Foster Award will be given to James Mello, a former All-American football player at Notre Dame who has spent the last 26 years assisting mentally hand­icapped children and adults at the Mansfield Training School In Con­necticut. 
He is a specialist in physical education and pioneered day cam­ping for the retarded in the early 1960's, a treatment leading to the concept of the Special Olympics. The 1987 international competition of this program is scheduled for Notre Dame's campus. 
The award honors a 1939 graduate who served as president of the national association, an FBI offi­cial and vice president of American Airlines before his death. It is given to a living alumni who may be an ath­lete or involved in athletic en­deavors "who distinguishes himself or herself through University ac­hievements or civic involvement." 
The award will be presented to Mello during halftime ceremonies of the Notre Dame-Army game Oc­tober 19. 
: New faces greet students this term 
f 

Special to The Observer 
f 

' Father Richard McBrien, chair­' man of the department of theologyf .at Notre Dame, has announced at number of new and visiting faculty 
appointments for the 1985-86f academic year. Four scholars will serve as visiting f John A. O'Brien professors: Father 
Avery Dulles, of The Catholic Uni-f versity of America, Washington, t D.C.; Father Roland Murphy, ofDuke 
University; Father Balthasar Fischer, 
' 

' emeritus professor at Trier, West 
' Germany; and Father Gerald ' McCool, ofFordham University. t Father Dulles is a specialist in ec­f clesiology and fundamental theol­
ogy. The author ofmany books, he is .J former president of the Catholic Theological Society of America and 
THE: TYPICAL NA\JV MAN'~ LOCKE:R. Weknow home's o hard place to leave. Out if you think it lool~s good, just wait till you hove been around ... after you've skied in the Alps. fished in New Zealand. hil~ed in Spain, and gone swimming in the Aegean ... as a Navy officer. We really aren't l~idding when we soy. "Join the Navy and see the world:' 
~\ 


~ ~ 
~;:w:w 

NAVY OFFICERS 
GET RESPONSIBILIJY FAST. 
A THREE-YEAR SCHOLARSHIP ($24,000) MAY NROTC UNIT IN YOUR FRESHMAN YEAR! CALL 

BE EARNED BY JOINING THE LT WACHTL AT 239-7274. 
the American Theological Society. Testament at the Perkins School of 
Father Murphy, an Old Testament Theology, Southern Methodist. Uni-scholar, has served as editor-in-chief versity; Paul Bradshaw, formerly of the Catholic Biblical Quarterly, vice principal and lecturer in liturgy coeditor of the Jerome Biblical As-and early Church history at Ripon sociation and the Society of Biblical College, Cuddesdon, Oxford; Adela literature. Collins, formerly professor of New 
Father Fischer, a liturgical scholar, Testament at McCormick Theologi­has lectured for many years in the cal Seminary, Chicago; and John J. faculty at Trier. He was a consulter Collins, formerly professor of in the Second Vatican Council and Religious Studies at DePaul Unlver­had a hand in the production of the sity, Chicago. Professor John Collins council's Constitution on the: is a specialist in Old Testament and 
d th
Second liturgy an in e restora-apocalyptic literature. t' fth Ri fCh · · I "ti ('
ton o e teo nsuan m a ton ofAdults. Two other faculty members will 
Father McCool has been a mem-be installed in endowed chairs ber ofthe faculty at Fordham Univer-during the fall semester: Professor sity since 1955 and is an expert on Joseph Blenkinsopp, an authority In Catholic philosophy and theology in Old Testament and archaeology and the 19th and early 20th centuries. the author of several major works, He is the author of Catholic Theol-including "Prophecy and Canon" ogy in the Nineteenth Century. and "Wisdom and Law in the Old 
Joining the faculty in tenured Testament," and Father Thomas F. positions are Harold Attridge, for-O'Meara, O.P., an authority on the merly associate professor of New theology of grace and ecclesiology. 
Ethanol 
continuedfrom page 1 
may be hard to find. In May, Parent traveled to Washington to lobby for federal financial assistance to deal with the problem. 
On August 15, a petition with 10,000 signatures demanding a halt to the ethanol odor was presented to Parent by the Committee of En­vironmentalists Against the Smell of 
Ethanol, or CEASE. John Roberts, CEASE chairman, asked the mayor if the city was considering legal action against New Energy to solve the problem. Parent, however, said he has no plans for litigation. 
"You think presenting me with 10,000 signatures will do someth­ing? I represent 109,000 people of South Bend," Parent said. 
Walker has said that while CEASE is considering filing a lawsuit against New Energy to halt the odor, he would not be surprised if CEASE 
members have to raise as much as $100,000 to wage a costly court battle. ' 
But, he said, "We are capable of meeting that challenge." 
Meanwhile, the New Energy plant is continuing normal operations and the ethanol odor remains a part of life in South Bend. 
Freshmen, we need your help! 
The Observer news department has immediate openings for dedicated, energetic people interested in reporting and writing the news. We currently are developing a staffofwriters who care about what goes on at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's and who want to keep people well-informed. If you think this could be for you, why not give us a call? We'll stick a pencil in your hand and a notebook in your pocket and put you on the beat right away. 
INTERESTED? Call Dan McCullough, Keith Har­rison or Tess Guarino at 239-5303 TODAY! 
N, W 
j 
View~oint 
Tuesday, August 27, 1985 -page 8 
War on Salvadoran people blessed by ND 
The University ofNotre Dame committed a grave mistake by conferring a doctorate on jose Napoleon Duarte, president of El Sal­vador. Its award gave a blessing to a puppet of 
U.S. intervention and helped legitimate the continued war on the Salvadoran people. 
Charles W. Dahm guest column 
Since February 1983 the U.S.-directed war in El Salvador has included massive bombings and gunship strafings of innocent civilians. Purpose: terrorize civilians, force them to flee and thus separate guerrillas from their sup­portive population. Since Duarte's election in june 1984, the air war has increased in fre­quency and firepower, including napalm and white phosphorus bombs. The air wars, directed by U.S. command stations in the Hon­duras and Panama, has killed thousands ofin­nocent women and children -under Duarte. 
Approximately 50,000 civilians have been slaughtered in El Salvador since the military coup in 1979 -many of them under Duarte's 1980 presidency of the junta and now in his first year of constitutional presidency. Most human rights organizations, including the Archdiocese of San Salvador, recognize that 90 percent of these murders are by the military, governmentforces and death squads. 
Since Duarte's election not one member of the regular armed forces has yet been punished criminally for a human rights viola­tion against other Salvadorans. Moreover, the murderers ofArchbishop Romero and the U.S. agricultural workers continue free, as well as the top officials who ordered the murder of four U.S. missionary women. Duarte has been unable to reign in military terror or bring mur­derers to justice. 
Although some of the urban activity by the death squads seems to have declined recently, the apparent change only reflects a new strategy. Americas Watch reported in january 1985: "The Salvadoran Army and Air Force have continued and, possibly, stepped up their indiscriminate attacks on civilians in conflict zones ... The most that can be said is that the human rights situation is different than it was a year ago . . . however (it) con­tinues to be terrible." All this under Duarte. 
Duarte narrowly won the June 1984 elec­tion run-off against Roberto d'Aubuisson. The 
U.S. government spent $8 million to assure Duarte's victory. The elections were con­trived at best. Because the government refused to provide guarantees to candidates, no party to the left of Duarte dared enter the race -too many politicians had already been killed by death squads. The people thus had little choice. And they had to vote-obliged by law and by intimidation (workers needed their IDs stamped and their fingers dyed to prove they had voted or else were subject to reprisals such as fines, firings and death). As a result, Duarte was elected and the United States obtained his smiling face to cover its continued war. • 
Whatever Duarte's good intentions and per­sonal sufferings, he is a powerless pawn, unable to alter a system firmly rooted in the country's ruling elites and their military. The people are fighting back with their own leaders. justice and the University would have been better served if the University had not lauded the U.S.-backed puppet as a champion ofhuman rights. 
Father Charles W. Dabm ts a Notre Dame Alumnus. 
All people are the same despite differences 
What compels one man to embellish his right appendage with a tattoo commemorat­ing the 1962 chuck-wagon rodeo, climb up three stories into the cab ofa 1956 Ford pick­up, tune in the radio to his all-time favorite rendition of "I left my heartburn in your chilidog," and proceed to wheel off, making a noise comparable only to the sound the inside of an elephant's tummy might make after eating that infamous chilidog? 
Carol Brown 
in these times 

Perhaps it is the same thing that causes 
another man to sport his impeccable Brooks 
Brothers fall sportswear collection, prop a 
pair ofPorsche sunglasses on the bridge ofhis 
ever-so-straight nose and then casually hop 
into the driver's seat as the glare from his mil­
lion dollar smile reflects off his blindingly 
waxed red Mercedes convertible. 
This past Fourth ofjuly I had to occasion to 
engage in an intensified crash course in 
people watching. Being from the great city of 
St. Louis (all right Cardinals!!) I had the rare 
opportunity to attend one of the greatest 
people watching extravaganzas in the country 
-the St. Louis. V.P. Fair. After encountering 
such a conglomeration of diverse people, I 
found myselfquestioning the old cliche about 
people beingpeople whereveryou go. I mean, 
how could I -the ever-so-clean-cut all­
American (yes, I eat wbeaties!) Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish student possible be of the same 
genus and species as the form of human that 
dons a Charlie Daniels tour shirt and blurts 
out, "Hey Sweetheart, how 'bouta cold brew," 
Doonesbury 
OKAY, MIKE. 7HISIS7l«JYCAR50F tuORK. 50I lXJN'rfA/ANT 'rW 70 5AYANYTHIN6ATFIRST. JU5T60 
j INTO 7H& 5TVO/O AN051..fJWL.Y7AK£ : /TIN, OKAY? 
as the remains of a plug of Redman chewing tobacco hangs off the corner of his longhorn steer mustache? 1 was definitely befuddled. 
So then I began thinking (heaven forbid) ­there has to be a common link between these very different types of people (be it ever so remote). Let us compare the local "barroom Billy," good ol' country boy to the seemingly infallible james Bond. For instance, compare the Hoosier's (no offense to Indiana resi­dents) crude call of "crank me a cold brewhah," to Bond's ever so suave "one very dry martini -stirred not shaken." Isn't the message the same? No matter how it is said, it is clear that both men want the same thing-an alcoholic beverage. The onlydifference lies in that Bond simply has more money, more taste or merely more pomp than our Charlie Daniels fan. Or maybe it simply boils down to honesty and the importance we place on ap­pearances. Barroom Billy is thirsty and he wants a beer. He is not afraid to voice this desire, and in no uncertain terms. Perhaps james Bond is secretly craving an icy cold beer too, but he, unlike Billy, is afraid of how drinking a common beer might tarnish his im­peccable image. OK, I know what you are saying-"james Bond is not afraid ofanything." But really, has anyone ever seen Bond downing a beer in public? I will leave that one for you to ponder. 
And of course there tnay be other similarities. Perhaps barroom Billy It is the same macho feeling from chewing a plug of tobacco that Bond acquires from speeding off in super-rigged sports car. And who is to say that barroom Billy isn't just as happy picking up his gal in his truck and taking her to the local steak house as Bond is when a beautiful foreign spy he has just met picks him up in her yacht and cruises to the Greek islands. 
Whatever the cause of these seemingly great differences between people-be it one of environment, circumstances, society, money, upbringing or whatever, it is pretty clear that people are basically the same all over the world. Individually they are driven by many different desires, needs and aspirations. But underlying all the differences is the universal need for acceptance, love and fullfillment that we all share. 
Ofcourse, after all is said and done, I would still prefer the possibly dishonest charm of a james Bond type to the honest crudity ofbar­room Billy. But who ever said honesty is al­ways the best policy? 
Carol Brown is a sophomore at Notre Dame and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Quote of the day 
Promise yourseH to be so strong that nothing can dis­turb your peace ofmind. To talk health, happiness and prosperity to every person you meet. To make all of your friends feel thatthere is something in them. To look at the sunny side ofeveryth­ingand make your optimism come true. To think only of the best, to work onlyfor the best and expect only the best. To be just as enthusias­tic about the success of ot­hers as you are about your own. To forget the mistakes 
Garry Trudeau 
I TOUJ Y(){) 

NOT705AY 
ANY7HIN6.' 
\ 

of the past and press on to the greater achievements of the future. To wear a cheer­ful coutenance at all times and and give every living creature you meet a smile. To give so much time to the improvement of yourseH that you have no time to critize others. To be too large for worry, too noble for anger, too strongfor fear and too happy to permit the presence oftrouble. 
Christian D. Larson 
Policy 

Viewpoint would like to bearfrom you. Ifyou would like to respond to something you've read in The Observer, why not write a letter to the editor. Letters should be well­written, typed, no more than 250 words in length and must bear the signature of the author. Letters which are not signed by the author will notbepublished. 
The Observer reserves the right to edit all material submitted to the Viewpoint departmentfor publication. 

Editorial Board Operations Board 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-53,03 
Edilonn·Chief . Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager . Davrd Steohenrtch The Observer is the independent newpaper published by the students of the 
Managmg Editor ... Amy Stephan Advertrsmg Manager .....Jim Hagan News Editor. . . Kerth Harrison Jr. Controller. Bill Htghducheck
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
News Editor. . . Dan McCullough Systems Manager. Mark B. Johnson
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as 
Saint Mary"s Executive Edrtor. . Theresa Guarrno Productron Manager . John A.'Mennelt
accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opmion 
Sports Editor. ... Jeff Blumb 
of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column 
Accent Editor Mary Healy present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the 
Viewpoint Editor Joe Murphy communtty. and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Photography Edrtor Peter C. Laches rs encouraged. Copy Chief. Frank Ltpo Founded November 3, 1966 

Accent 
Tuesday, August 27, 1985-page 13 

p 

How to keep wet on a dry cantpus 
by Amy Stephan 
features staffwriter 

S 
ummer vacation may be over, Buffalo beach. New Buffalo may not 
but If we're lucky South Bend have dunes, but it does offer 
may be graced with a few more Redamaks, which bills itself as lhe 
weeks of reasonable weather. Now, home of the world's greatest 
while the air is warm and the hamburger. 
workload light, it's time to enjoy The New Buffalo beach is open 
the last few days ofsun and sand, year-round until l 0 p.m. Alcoholic 
and hit the beach. beverages are prohibited at this 
The a~tute reader will have noted beach also, but said TomJohn, city 
that we are now in Indiana -the manager of New Buffalo, "normally 
nearest ocean is a good 12-hour people don't get too hassled" for 
drive away ( 15 if you drive the having alcohol on the beach. 
speed limit). A day at the beach may The rule against glass bottles, 
have to wait until spring break. however, is strictly enforced. After 
It's true waves are about as com­all, lhe beach and broken glass are a 
mon a~ hazardous mix. 

by Mary Healy 
features editor 

I 
f just getting wet isn't enough, 
take heart -you don't: have to go 
all lhe way to the Snake River for 
water that's your speed. 
Right here in South Bend, lhe 
nation's only artificial white water 
course was challenging enough for 
lhe U.S. kayak team tryouts last 
spring, and for an international 
kayak race a few weeks ago. 
Although its rushing currents are slowed down for use by the public, a ride down the East Race in a kayak, raft or inner tube:~ is a step above floating around on a placid lake. 
This week is lhe East Race's last ofthe summer, so enjoy it while it lasts. The course will be open for inner tubing tomorrow and Thursday from 5:30 to 7:30p.m. If you prefer something slightly dryer, rafting or kayaking Is available from IO a.m. to 5 p.m. Saturday, or from I to 5 p.m. Sunday or Monday. 
For the very reasonable price of S1 a ride, you will receive a helmet, a lifejacket, and a tube, kayak or raft. The East Race is located on Niles Avenue in South Bend. 
According to South Bend Recrea­tion Supervisor Paul McMinn, lhe I,900-foot course is capable of moving I,300 cubic feet ofwater per second. With lhe use ofgates, lhe staffcan control the speed and flow ofwater, adjusting its difficulty on lhe whitewater scale of I to 5. Level 2 is used for public recrea­tion, and the course is upped to 3 or 4 for professional use. 
The staff also can adjust obstacles in the course to "create any condi­tions we want," said McMinn. For the staff, lhe process "Is kind oflike a school ofhydraulics-every time 
Get in on the action! 
~Ihe~--~~ 
Accent department 
is looking for talented, dedicated stu­dents to write feature stories, humor columns, movie and record reviews, and all about what's happening on campus.
and 

is accepting applications for: 
• 
Assistant features editor 

• 
Features copy editor 


Contact Mary Healy at the Observer office, 3rd floor of LaFortune, 239-5303 

we change the obstacles we get a different effect," he added. 
The S4.5 million project was begun in the I970s, and only has been open since July 1984. The idea came from a similar course in Munich, Germany, where lhe 1972 Olympics were held. 
McMinn emphasized !hat safety is. an important consideration at lhe East Race, and that although !here have been several minor accidents, a safety staff of I3 has prevented any from becoming serious. 
hllls in Indiana, but for !hose who love the feel ofsand between their toes, all is not lost. There are several (freshwater) beaches within striking distance. 
The Warren Dunes in Michigan ­
' the site of Emil's famous freshman picnic -arc a scant 45 minutes away. Located on l.ake Michigan, the park features plenty ofclean beach area, a challenging dune to scale, and year-round swimming (for those who care to brave lhe waters of Lake Michigan in mid­winter). Tht· park is open from 8 a.m. to I 0 p.m., and admission is J3 per car for out-of-state residents. And for lhe senior carrying only 12 credit hours, the dunes also feature a campground. Alcoholic beverages and glass bottles arc prohibited in the park area, according to Evelyn Marx, a secretary in the park office. To get to the Warren Dunes take Route 31 to Route 12 until you reach the town ofThree Oaks. Turn right at the stoplight and drive seven miles to Red Arrow Highway. Turn right onto Red Arrow and the dunes are a mile and a half down the road. 
John notes that the beach is "very large and there's lots ofnice sand." There's no charge to swim, but !here is a S3 parking fee. 
According toJohn, lhe quickest way to New Buffalo is to take lhe Indiana Toll Road west to the LaPorte exit and then follow Mic­higan 39 for about 8 miles to the beach. 
If you don't have access to a car (and don't mind fish !hat bite) you can satisfy your craving for sand right on the Notre Dame campus. 
St. Joseph's beach (located on St. Joseph's Lake) will probably be open from noon to 5:30p.m. on weekdays and from 10 a.m. to 5:30 
p.m. on weekends, according to Brother Louis Hurcik, director of Notre Dame's swimming program. The weather and usage will determine when the beach will close down for the winter, said Hurcik. 
The temperature ofSt. Joseph's lake is generally good for swimming -between 75 and 80 degrees, since lhe water is heated by the power plant nearby. "It's lhe world's largest heated pool," said Hurcik. 
Despite the warm water, generally "you'll find more people laying out, reading, !han swim­ming," said Hurcik. "Serious swim­mers come to the pool." · 

Ifyou do choose to brave lhe waters ofSt. Joseph's Lake, beware oflhe biting fish. "They'll get you" warns Hurcik. "Why do you think more people swim in lh(: pool !han in lhe lake?" 
Right now, there's only one swimming pool on campus. Located in lhe Rockne Memorial, !his 25­yard pool is open for recreational swimming from 7:15a.m. to 9 a.m., 
12:05 p.m. to 1:15 p.m., 3: I 0 p.m. to 4 p.m. and 8:30p.m. to 11 p.m. on weekdays; and from 1 p.m. to 6 p.m., and 7 p.m. to I 0 p.m. on weekends. 
The Rockne pool may not offer sun and surf, but is does provide clean towels and European Spa body shampoo. Most oflhe recrea­tional swimming is lap swimming, according to Hurcik, so serious swimmers will find lhe Rockne pool a good place to work out. 
But be warned -lhe Rockne pool enforces a very strict dress code. No cutoffs, gym shorts or leotards will be tolerated. One must wear a "regular swimsuit," according to posted regulations. 
Men have lhe option ofswim­ming in a one-of-a-kind Rockne swimsuit, or using !heir own. Until last year, men were required to wear lhe Rockne suits. Why? Be­cause some men had a tendency to toss their wet swimsuits in !heir lockers. As anyone who has been in lhe Rockne locker rooms will tell you, lhe lockers are not exactly new and tend to rust. Wet swim­suits only accelerate lhls process. 
Because most swimsuits are now nylon, not cotton, !hey dry more quickly. Thus the ban on outside swimsuits was lifted and men are now free to wear whatever "regular swimsuit" they choose. 
Freshmen confused by !heir campus maps may wonder if!here aren't two pools on campus. But although it has been done, swim­ming in lhe library reflecting pool is "against the rules," said Bud Juday, library monitor. 
Glass and other unsafe objects thrown in the pool are lhe main reasons swimming is prohibited, said Juday, adding "I don't know why anyone would want to swim in !here anyway, it's so dirty." 
In mid-October the Rockne is scheduled to be joined by a new aquatic facility in the ACC. Accord­ing to Dennis Stuk, who will administer this new pool, !he facility will feature underwater music and two underwater viewing areas where swimmer's strokes can be videotaped. 
The new pool will measure 50 meters by 25 yards, with two movable bulkheads, which will allow the pool to be divided into three smaller pools. It was "designed for ftexiblllty," according to Stark, and will be used ex­tensively by all facets of!he swim­ming population of Notre Dame. 
Although the pool will be used mostly by the men's and women's swim teams during the competitive season, look for it to house physical education classes, aerobic con­ditioning, recreational swimming and eventually synchronized swim­ming. 
The new aquatic facility may be open after October break, and will literally quadruple lhe volume of water now available for indoor swimming at Notre Dame. 
Racing the rapids in South Bend 

----------~-------------------------·-------------------------------------------------, 
The Observer Tuesday, August 27, 1985-page 14 
• 
''Welcome Bac 

Studentsl'' 
6325 State Road 23 Mishawaka, Indiana 

Now Kroger gives you Cost Cutter Prices 24 Hours A Day, 7 Days A Week, so you can shop when it's convenient for YOU. Whatever you need . . . Whenever you need it . . . Go Krogering. 
IIIE IIORE THIS WEEI 

This week only, Sunday, August 25 through Monday, September 2 your Manufacturers' "Cents 0~" coupons ore worth double. Limit
WITH 

1 coupon for any particular iltem. (We cannot redeem double coupons on more than one of a particular item. Only one Maxwell House, one Miracle Whip, etc. even if you hove two coupons.) Limit 1 coffee coupon per customer -please. State statutes do not permit doubling of cigarette or tobacco coupons. Offer limited to Monufoc;turers' coupons of 50¢ value or less. Coupons over 50¢ will be redeemed at face value. You must purchase products in sizes specified on the coupon. This offer applies only to Manufacturers' "Cents Off" coupons for items we corry and not "Free" coupons or Kroger or retail food store coupons. Amount refunded cannot exceed the cost of the item. While supplies last. No ralnchecks and no substitutions. 

OFF 

I<.ROG£R COST CUTHR COUPON Limit 1 With This Coupon
I I I 20c Ofl I 
I The Regular Price of One I 12-Pock Cans I 
' 

I Big I Cola I 
Subject to Applicable Toxes. Volid thru 
I

If911 Sept. 2, 1985. One Coupon Per Fomily Pleose. ~I 
~~---------------~ 
AcbeniMd Item Polley -Eoch of tMse odvertiaed Items is required to be reodily available for sol• in .ach Kr~r stor•. ••c..,t 01 apM:ifically not.d In this od. If w• do run aut of an odv•rtised lt•m. we will oH•r you your choice of a comporabl• Item. when avallabl•. reflec,tlng th• sam• savings or a raincheck which will entitle you to purchase the adY•rtiMd Item ot the advertised price within 30 days. Only one vendor coupon will be accepted per it•m. 

Prices in thi1 ad ore eff~tive August 25, 1985 through September 2. 1985 in (City. State). Copyright 1985-The Kroger Co. We reserve the right to lirnil quantities on all sole merchandise at any time. None sold to 
dealers. 
• 
.·· 

The Observer Tuesday, August27, 1985-page 9 
Now at St. Rd. 23 and Terrace Lane across from Martin's Supermarket Students show ID and receivefree med. drink 277-7744 with sandwich purchase. Offer expires 9/8.  .SUBWCR1'\r Sandwiches & Salads  
Need Furniture? couches, easy chairs? WE HAVE IT!! Need "classic" clothes or "punk"? WE HAVE IT!! good quality, great prices Eddy St. 1805Westem across from Nickies Mon-Sat 9:30-5:30 Mon-Thurs 9-7 Fri till 7:00 9-5:30  SUPER~ MERRICK'SVAL Super-Val DrugsDRUGS (Goodwill Plaza) 1807~ St. Rd. 23 Next to Aldl"s OuatNonhof 933 N. Eddy Tunle Creek Apt.) 287·3663 272·7747 (OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK) Welcome Students -We have allyourhealth and school supply needs atDiscountPrices -Phannacist always on duty -Wecash check's up to 125 for students with valid schoolJ.D.  

The Student Activities Board Presents: 
STEPAN MALL
l· 

Tuesday, August 27 9:00-5:00 Wednesday, August 28 9:00-5:00 
• Refrigerator Rentals • School Supplies (Student Saver Store) eLumber for your Loft and Shelves (Circle Lumber) • Flowers and Plants (Irish Gardens) 
ecarpet -all colors and sizes OC Penney) eNewspapers 
eFurniture and Knick Knacks •chris' Ice Cream!!! (Interior Concepts & Finishing Touches) 
PRICED AFFORDABLY FORYOUR BUDGET 
GET INVOLVED!!! 
Now at St. Rd. 23 and Terrace Lane across from Martin's Supermarket 
Students show ID and receive free med. drink 277-7744 with sandwich purchase. Offer expires 9/8. 
The Observer Tuesday, August 27, 1985 -page 10 


Now at St. Rd. 23 and Terrace Lane across from Martin's Supermarket
Students show ID and receive free med. drink 
277-7744

with sandwichpurchase. Offer expires 9/8. 

.Hardware .Lumber 
•Shelving 
weekdays 8:00-8:00 8:00-5:00 Sat. 10:00-4:00 Sun. 
Wemtz 

1801 South Bend Ave. Just east of Notre Dame 
277-7727 

..... .--· 
~ 
• 


Eslingers 
Why rent when you can buy!!! 
FR9M $40.00 
We are selling our entire stock of rental refrigerators priced $40 to 160 
For Information 291-5676 
2701 S. Michigan, South·Bend 
~~TUDENT PAGES 

All you have to do is sign up... 
to get involved in the fast-paced excitement of newspaper production. Positions are available on any day of the week­some are paid. If you have worked for The New York Times or have never even read a newspaper you are encouraged to apply at the Observer office on the 3rd floor of LaFortune Student Center. 
The Observer 


: ~ 
,.. Join Viewpoint today and ;: : become part ofa winning : : team ofwriters. : 
Jt-CallJoe Murphy at 239-7471. * : No experience necessary. ; 
~·································· 

Now at St. Rd. 23 and TerraceLarte across from Martin's Supermarket
Students show /D and receive free med. drink 
~77-7744 

with sandwich purchase. Offer expires 9/8. 
r-----------------------------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-------­
The Observer Tuesday, August 27, 1985-page 11 
-
Now at St. Rd. 23 and Terrace Lane 

.SUBWCR1'\r
across from Martin's Supermarket 
Students showID and receive free med. drink 
Sandwiches & Salads
277-7744 with sandwich purchase. Offer expires 9/8. 
W~t l(nigltts oftilt <ltastlt 

Cash
Men's Hair Styling at Its finest 
•
tn...
ti ....... ... minutes from campus

t'-rif "..,......_~ Welcome Back Students!
t 

The Obseroer needs creative,

1 
STUDENT SPECIAL 

dedicatedpeople to design ads, so ifyou're interested,
$5 Haircut only 

call Mary Carol Creadon at 283-3461.
277-1691 
$8 50 Haircut, Shampoo

272-0312 
Blowdrv 

...on your
offer <>nly applies to male patrons 

artistic ,-;iiii;;;j~
Hn: Tues. Wed: 8:30-6:30 

54633 Terrace lone Thur, Frl: 1:30-8:30 AerO.. from Marin'• Sat: 8:00.2:30 
talent
St. Rid. 23 CIOMCI Mon. 


Welcome Back Students Good thru Sept 85 
w~e <!loltinial 'nncnke Jlnuse , 
$l.OOOFFT'::!bAd' 
OUR SPECIALTY Limit 1 0 VEN-BAKED per person APPLE PANCAKES 
LJ.S. 31 North m Roseland (,\~,·ro-.\ from the Holida ·Inn 72-7433 Open7daysawHkat6:00am 
BANKING••• ON CAMPUS AT SAINT MARYS 
1st Source Bank's office, located at Saint Mary's College in Haggar College Center, offers &ee checking to Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students and faculty. 
In addition, this office brings you the convenience of 24 hr. banking locations to serve you! 
Banking Hours-Monday through Friday 
Mon. thru Thurs.-11:30 a.m.-3:30p.m. 

Friday-11:00 a.m.-4:00p.m.  ~  source  
Join Michiana's 1st Team  ~Bank  
for unsurpa~sed banking service!  Member F.D.I.C.  

99.9 PERCENT 

That is the percentage of letters to the editor that we print. The Observer Write us. Viewrtoint 
P.O.BoxQ r-Notre Dame, IN 46556 
--------~­
~March of Dimes 
~ --BIRTH DEFECTS FOUNDATION-IIIIIIil 
'10760 U.S. 31 North

-..ely Boolo CAAPETLAND 
lor Y!!!!!. ~or er!!!!l Soulh Bend, Indiana 46637 ETLANDu•A (ll9)l72·4'100 
a It's never too late to
W become a bronze God or Goddess! 
WELCOME BACK STUDENTS! 
Hold that Summe:r tan! tan. CaD us at 277-7026 
'MN-HAWA1&N 
J.M.S. PLAZA 
4609 Grape Road Mishawaka 



Is accepting applications for the following positions. 
Day Chief Salaried position. 
• Responsible for coordinating a staff oftypists and day editors. 
Typist Paid according to amount typed. Day Editor Salaried position. 
Submit application to Amy Stephan by 5 p.m. Thursday. For more information, call The Observer at 239·5303. 
Now at St. Rd. 23 and Terrace Lane across from Martin's Supermarket 

.SUBWCR1~
Students show ID and receive free med. drink 
Sandwiches & Salads
277-7744 with sandwich purchase. Offer expires 918. 
-The Observer Tuesday, August 27, 1985-page 12 
Now at St. Rd. 23 and Terrace Lane across from Martin's Supermarket
Students showID and receive free med. drink 
277-7744

with sandwich purchase. Offer expires 918. 
REMNANT SALE 
• 
Over 500 Remnants • Small and Large Sizes 

• 
Area's Lowest Prices • Delivery Available 

• 
Hundreds of Colors • Best Selection 


Mon. 8:30-8:30 Tues. 8:30-6:00 Weds. 8:30-6:00 Thurs. 8:30-8:30 


FLOOR CENTER 
Fri. 8:30-8:30 

402 SOUTH IRONWOOD, MISHAWAKA 
Sat. 8:30-5:30 

PHONE: 259-5638 
Sun. 1:00-5:30 

• CARPET • VIIIYL • TIU • CERAMIC • WOOD • AREA lUll 
LOCATED ON IRONWOOD ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF LJNl!OLNWAY, NEXT TO RAIL.ROAD TRACKS 
COMIC BOOKS AND BASEBALL CARDS

* mllllATEST COMICS, PLUS THOUSAIIDS OF BACK·ISSUES
* BASOALL AIID FOOTBALL 
*CARDS SUPPU£S FOR COMICS AIID CAlliS
* OPEII 11 :88·6:00 
MOIDAY·SATURDAY 

ALL-STAR COMICS &CARDS 507 E. McKINLEY AVE. MISHAWAKA PHONE 251-4388 
• 

RESTAURANT a: LOUNGE . 10331AKE STREET 
NILES. MICHIGAN 
616/683-7474 
a Notre Dame, SaintMary's Tradition for over 30 years. 


JUST ASK ANYONE! 
I • 
Now at St. Rd. 23 and Terrace Lane across from Martin's Supermarket
Students showID and receive free med. drink 
277-7744

with sandwich purchase. Offer expires 9/8. 

Sports Briefs 
Returningvarsity baseball playerswill be meeting today at 5 p.m. in the football auditorium In the ACC. All members of the 1985 team should attend and bring a pen or pencil. · The Observer 
The ND Rowing Club will be holding a meeting for officers tonight at 7 p.m. in LaFortune. There will be a general meeting for all returning members tomorrow at 7 p.m. in 123 Nieuwland Hall. · The Observer 
Prospective ND baseball players will be 
meeting tomorrow at 5 p.m. in the football auditorium in the ACC. Anyone interested in trying out for the team should attend and bring a pen or pencil. · The Observer 
A grad-faculty tennis tournament will be 
held by NVA. There will be men's and women's singles and mixed 
•doubles divisions. The deadline for entries is Wednesday, Sept. 4 at office C.4 7. For more information, call 239-6100. ·The Observer 
I 
Tuesday, August 27, 1985 -page 15 
Women's sports competitions in softball, 
soccer, tennis, golfand running ( 5K) will be part ofRun, Jane, Run, a women-in-sports weekend, which will be held by the YWCA Sept. 13 through Sept. 15. Representatives will distribute information tomorrow and Thursday from 4:30p.m. to 6:30p.m. at the entrance to SAGA at Saint Mary's. Information and entry forms also will be available at the NVA office in: the ACC until Sept. 6. -The Observer 
An NVA biathlonwill be held Saturday at 10:30 a.m. at St. Joseph Lake. Registration is free but limited to the first 50 entries. The deadline for entries is Friday at 5 p.m. at the NVA office In the ACC. -The Observer 
A scramble golf tournament will be held by 
NVA on Sunday, Sept. 15. Students, faculty and staff may register as individuals or pairs. The deadline for submitting $4 greens fees to the NVA office Is Sept. 11. · The Observer 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor ofLafortune. Brief!; should be submitted on the forms available at the office, and every briefmust include the phone number ofthe person submitting it. -.The Observer 
Beuerlein 
continuedfrom page 20 
rehab and plan to work on the weights just a little, also. Mainly, though, I just have to throw, throw, throw. But the arm feels fine." 
As a sophomore, Beuerlein enjoyed a season that saw him produce the highest individual pass completion percentage in Notre Dame history, in addition to throw­ing for 200 yards or more on five oc­casions. 
March of Dimes 
-BIRTH DEFECTS FOUNDATION­
SAVES BABIES 
HELP FIGHT 
dp

BIRTH DEFECTS 
The Obsert•er Notre Dam~: offk.:. lo<:ated on tht" third floor of l.a~ortune Studcm Center, an·epts dassilkd advertisin~ from l) a.m. until -1 p.m.. Monday throu~h Friday. The Obserr>er Saint Ma~··s offic.:. lo<:atcd on the third floor of Haggar Colle~e C~:nt~:r. accepts dassifkds from l.l:_~O p.m. until 3 p.m.. Mon· day though Friday. D~:adline for nt·xt·day dassifkds b .~ p.m. All das~ilkds must h~: prepaid, eithn in p~:rson or hy mail. Char~~: is lij <:t"nts per five charac·
Classifieds 
ters erda . 

NOTICES  $10.$360 WeetdyNp Ma~~ng CircuM! No oo.-tquotu! Sincenoly lnl...tlld rulh aelf--envelope: Depl. AM· 7CEG, PO Box 830, Woodltoct<, IL  5-bdrm. houae, helf mile lrom campua. 19095 Cleveland. $160/mo./peraon. Call Jim 2n-2194 or674-6595.  FOR SALE  PLEASE. I REAllY NEED 2-3 TICKETS FOR THE MICHIGAN STATE GAME. WIWNG TO PAY ANY SSSS$. PLEASE CAllSCOTT AT 272-9518.  John McNamara (typical apellng) Nv• In Flenner. He ia not a woman hater.  
600118  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287·4082 IIASKna, IIUQS AND POTTEIIY PLUS LO'B OF UNIQUE JEWELRY,  I I WANTED IFOR RENT .___________. WANTED: HOUSE TO . RENT....3­ 1978 Chevy Malibu Cluelc AM/FM, Air, New Tlr•. Bllnery, Mutfter $1,600 or offer 2n-ea33 ETH~>N ALLEN Roct<er·Recliner Beat 01· fer233-eno  PERSONALS Joe Montana Ia a woman hater  Peruvian law atudent -ngf-pen 1>-' to exchange ldeu llbout both cullu,... and eatablllh friendahlpe. !"-Mit.: Moi-Antonio Lopez, 330 German Amezag~~, Urb. a.navldea. Uma 1 Peru  
Q.OlliD  AND  IIOOI(S.  THE  ST.  BEDROOM. CALL 288-0358.  
FRANCIS IIHOPPE, .EHIND FATIMA I'IETliEAT CENTEII, NOTM DAME. TYPING CAU CHillS 2J4-IW7  APAIITM!NT FOil IIENT PERFECT FOR GRAD. STUDENT. 1·1/2 BEDROOM. ALL UTILITIES, STOVE  Wanted ride to california or New Vorl<. Share exp-. Cal Marco at 1·264· 1084.  Ia It True You Can lk•y Jeepa for $44 through the U.S. government? Get the f.cta todlly! Cal 1·312·742·1142, Exl. 7316.  MINT LOUIS a..u• liE­Welcome bacl<lll!-Your offlcera.  PRISON INMATE WISHES TO COR­RESPOND WITH A COLLEGE STU· DENT. PLEASE WRITE: NELSON BASTIC, 12e17-<M13 3801 KLEIN BLVD.  
SAVE $$$ ON YOUR TEXTS!' USED ClASS BOOKS BOUGHT AND SOlD. PRESENT THIS AD AND RECEIVE AN EXTRA $5 OFF OF $!50 PURCHASE PANDORA'S BOOKS 937 SO. BEND AVE, 233-2342  AND REFRIG. FURNISHED. EASY WALKING DISTANCE TO CAMPUS. ONE YEAR'S LEASE. NO PETS OR CHILDREN. $275/MONTH. $200 DAMAGE DEPOSIT. REFERENCES REQUIRED. CALL 232·1405 DAYS: 2n­0151 EVENINGS  DELIVERY PERSON WANTED. MUST HAVE OWN CAR. PART-TIME EVENINGS. APPLY IN PERSON RICCO'S OLDE HOUSE PIZZERIA, 130 DIXIEWAY NO., ACROSS FROM BIG C LUMBER.  TICKETS .. NEED 4 MICH. ST. TIX 272-2454  Domlno'a Pizza • the world'a lergeat plzz..selivery company • Ia now hiring ctiv.,. to handle the inHux of atudentll. Muat have own car and lnaurance. For a fun part·time job with flexible hou,. and SS.$8 per hour average eel Domlno'a PizzL 2n-2151  LOMPOC, CA 93438 HI I'M JAMIE OBRIEN AND I AM IN CHARGE OF DELIVERY OF THE NEW YCH< TIMES. IF YOU WOULD UkE TO SUBSCRIBE GIVE MEACAU.28S-2043  


UNIVERSI1Y FOOD SERVICES NEEDS 
A 

FEW AMBITIOUS STUDENTS 
POSITIONS AVAILABLE Waiters Waitresses Bartenders Attendants Casual Employment Catering Positions 
Apply to.· Delores-North Dining Hall (6176) jean -South Dining Hall (6147) · Pat-Huddle(7157) 
Byprovidingyour name and social security number, we will clearfinancial aidfor you. 

The Observer Tuesday, August 27, 1985-page 16 
Gillen leaves ND for Xavier;Baron gets promoted 
ByJEFF BLUMB 
Sports Edttor 
There was a shuffling of bodies this summer in the Notre Dame bas­ketball offices, all of which was started by the departure of assistant coach Pete Gillen to take the head job at Xavier. The resulting changes saw part-time assistant Jim Baron promoted to the vacant full-time position and Matt Kilcullen hired to take Baron's spot. 
Gillen left Notre Dame's employ­ment on Aug. 12, when he accg>ted Xavier's offer to be head coach. He was interviewed for the job on a Friday night and received word that he was Xavier's choice on Sunday night. The selection then was an­nounced the following day in Cin­cinnati. 
The 38-year old Gillen succeeds Bob Staak, who left to become the head coach at Wake Forest. He got the job over Tim Grgurich, an assis­tant at Nevada-Las Vegas, Syracuse assistant Wayne Morgan, who previously had been an assistant at Xavier, and present Muskateers as­sistant Harry Krohn. Gillen recently had turned down a 195,000 annual salary to become an assistant to Hubie Brown with the New York Knicks. 
Gillen had been on Digger Phelps' Irish staff since 1980 and was Notre Dame's chief recruiter. A 1968 Fair­field graduate,and a native ofBrook­lyn, N.Y., Gillen was excited by the opportunity to become a head coach. 
"I think the situation at Xavier is a great one," he said. "I've always said that if I were to become a head coach, I wanted a job where I had a chance to succeed. I think I have that at Xavier." 
Once Gillen left for Cincinnati, Phelps immediately replaced him by pcomoting Baron. 
"When Pete Gillen accepted the job at Xavier, there was no question in my mind that Jim Baron was the person who would move into that spot," Phelps said. "He has paid his dues as a part-time assistant for four years, and he know our program as well as anyone. He deserves this op­portunity to increase his respon­sibility as far as our overall staff is concerned." 
Baron came to Notre Dame in time for the 1981-82 season follow­ing previous college coaching ex­perience at St. Bonaventure, Loyola (Md.) . and the University of Rochester. His playing experience includes time as a three-year starter at guard for St. Bonaventure and a briefstint in the Continental Basket­ball League. 
"I'm very happy for Pete," Baron said. "My new job will be more chal-

MID .. EASTERN VEGETARIAN 
•·Vqeta~ .t flnl D&.liiil FOODS SHAWBIU#A-MUGBDERA -BABA GHENOUJ HOMMUS; FELAFEL TEBBOULI SAUD 
SOUTH BEND • LEBANESB STYLE 

• 
Pit• Sfl41ed. .s.a..ANeM. G VROS 

•lHU,Iat/ul 
Putria • Turla&.la Coif~~ 288-563 9 


Tun -&.l6:30PJI-9:30PM 

cot'ftt':A'f:i~'Zf1~R 838 Portage lOi.Discount for ND/SMC Students 
ALL YOU CAN EAT! 

MON.-Spaplltl & Mill S.uoe••'2.99 TUES.-Frled Chlcken••••••13.89 WED.-Bir 8 Que Ribs••••••15.95 THURS..-Mexlcan Buffet••••14.95 FRI.-Frled Perch........... 13.99 SIT.-SUN.-8AR 8 QUE RIBS S a 
1 LOUNGE
AND CHICKEN... •99 139 W. McKinleyI Mlshawaka/259-3JOO 
OPEN: Sun. thru Thun. 7 a.m. to 10 p~m.; Fri. & Sat. 7 a.m. to 12 
Wouldn't miss the big game? 

Are Orioles and Blue Jays more than just birds to you? Ever wonder what it's like be­hind the scenes of a major college athletic program? Ifyou answered yes to these ques­tions, then writing sports for The~ Observer could be just like pitching a no-hitter in the seventh game of the World Series for you. Come to a meeting on Thursday at 7 p.m. in the Observer office on· the third floor of LaFortune Student Center. We'll put you on deck, and it won't be long before you're in 
the batter's box and hitting away. 

lenging and it is something that I assistant at Rutgers before the Notre Dame's personnel, having only definitely was looking forward to Dame job came along. Following a watched them on TV, but know that doing one day." 22-7 record by Siena last season, its the nucleus is very good. Baron now will be allowed to go best mark in 33 seasons, Kilcullen 
"Growing up as an Irish kid in the on the road to recruit. His respon­was promoted earlier this summer Bronx, I've always followed Notresibilities will b~ center more on to the position of associate head Dame. I don't think I could be hap­recruiting and less on scouting, as coach. 
pier anywhere else right now."
they previously had. Part-time assis­"Once I had worked at camp tants are not allowed to do off­here," said Kilcullen, "it became a Previously, Kilcullen had been campus recruiting. goal of mine to one day be a coach head coach at Castleton State Col­
Kilcullen is no stranger to Notre here. I've always kept in touch. I'm lege in Castleton, Vt. for three 
Dame. He has been on the coaching not overly familiar with Notre seasons. staff of the Notre Dame basketball camp for each ofthe past 10 years. 
"We consider Matt to be one of 

Wrestling hits ACC tonight
the bright young .talents in the coaching profession," said Phelps. 

If the excitement of professional Hammer' Valentine. In other bouts, "We've had a chance to watch him 
wrestling is your cup of tea, prepare Tony Atlas squares offwith The Mis­and work with him during our sum· 
yourself. The World Wrestling sing Link, Ivan Putsky matches up mer camp, so we're quite familiar 
Federation Super Stars of Wrestling with Adrian Adonis, George Wilk with him. He comes from a solid bas­
comes to the ACC tonight with six wrestles Mike Sharpe and Tonyketball background." 
bouts scheduled for an 8:00 starting Garea faces King Kong Bundy. In a The 30-year old Bronx, N.Y., 
time. tag team match, The British Bulldogs native had been an assistant at Siena 
The night's main event will be an meet Volkoffand The Sheik. College the past three seasons, and 
Inter-Continental title match bet-Tickets are 19 and 17 reserved reportedly was all set to become an ween Tito Santana and Greg 'The and are on sale at the Gate 1 0 box office of the ACC. 
ON~~:!,~!,. ~6~~1~~~Ty TO SAVE ! i l 

-~JIUt~~l 
CARSTEREOS, -~____] D I 
AMPS & EQUALIZERS 
TOLL ROAD!:-,..,=.=
90--­
ONE BRAND SYSTEMS FROM $297_00 to $1300.00 
PO.
OR CHOOSE A RECEIVER TAPE DECK, TURNTABLE, A PAIR OF SPEAitERS. 


Bring this _=td before Septemb•8.1985 to ALL-TRONICS and you can r------------------~ purchase one component of your choice at 10% OVER OUR COST, on brand : SAVE 
2001/ :
! AUDIO /0:
names like, Harmon, KARDON, Denon, NIKKO, Dual, THORENS, Parasound, : ~DEO : AOCOM, Scott, ELECTRO-VOICE, Sony, J.BL, Whafdale, EPICURE, Clarion, I I 
:oN ALL REPAIRS: 
JENSEN, Concord, MAJESTIC. Some items may be exempt from this sale. No 
i Coupon Exp. 9-30-85 i rainchecks, first come, first served. Welcome to Notre Dame! 
~------------------~ 
ALL-TRONICS 
6502 N. GRAPE ROAD, UNIVERSITY CENTER, MISHAWAKA PHONE 277-1801 
CORKTOWNE Ll UORS,
INC. 
OUTH BEND AVE. 
State Road 23, !4 mile west of Martin's Supermarket 
Welcome Back Students 
(Especially Campus Zoo Animals) 
KEGS$34.88 
Bud, Bud light, and Strohs Free Bag oflee with each Keg Cooler Tubs Available (Liberal Deposit Policy) 
Bud Quarts 
$9.99/ case 
(while quantities last) 
277-6805 

The Observer 
Tuesday, August 27, 1985 -page 17 
Notre Dame 1985-86 Men's Varsity Basketball Schedule 

November  20 22 30  Wednesday Friday Saturday  YUGOSLAVIA (Ljubijana) ST. JOSEPH'S (Ind.) BUTLER  
December  03 07 09 21 30  Tuesday Saturday Monday Saturday Monday  Indiana ?????I OREGON VALPARAISO CREIGHTON  
january  04 07 1 1 13 18 20 22 26 29  Saturday Tuesday Saturday Monday Saturday Monday Wednesday Sunday Wednesday  LaSalle Providence DePaul Brigham Young UCLA 2 HOFSTRA AMERICAN North Carolina UTAH  
February  01 03 05 08 I 1 16 19 22 26  Saturday Monday Wednesday Saturday Tuesday Sunday Wednesday Saturday Wednesday  MARQUETTE MARYLAND Dayton Syracuse FORDHAM Duke Manhattan Miami DEPAUL  
March  01 03 08  Saturday Monday Saturday  ~arquette New Orleans DAYTON  

December 7 is still open. UCLA game on january 18 is still tentative. 
LSU cancellatiqn leaves ND, NBC with open date in Dec. 
By PHIL WOLF 
AssistantSports Editor 

It may seem as though there is a lot oftime 
before basketball season starts, but the Notre 
Dame basketball team already has encoun­
tered difficulties. Although the scheduling of 
games usually is completed by the end of the 
summer, Notre Dame's 1985-86 schedule still 
is not finished. 

The "final" schedule was released in late June, but since then, a nationally televised contest with Louisiana State has been can­celled, forcing NBC Television officials to scnunble to find a new opponentfor the Irish. 
NBC had arranged for l.SU to visit the ACC 
for a Saturday afternoon contest on Jan. 18. 
The Tigers agreed to the date but then dis­
covered that they were unable to rearrange 
their schedule to accomodate the game. As a 
result, l.SU backed out of the agreement, 
leaving Notre Dame and NBC with an open 
date. 

"They ( l.SU) had committed to the Notre Dame game," NBC's Rich Hussey explained, "and we had worked very hard with the con­ference to get their SEC schedule juggled so that they could make it. 
"The sticky point," Hussey said, "was that they could not get out of an away game outside of the conference. They tried, but they could not come up with anything that was satisfactory to the people they had con­tracts with." 
Notre Dame Assistant Athletic Director Roger Valdiserri noted that l.SU's backing out of the scheduled game was an unusual move. 
"I don't know why they said yes to begin with," he said, "without having gotten out ofa garne." 
"It's an unusual situation," Hussey agreed, "that someone would turn down national ex· posure against a high-quality program like Notre Dame's." 
Official word has not yet been released, but the latest indication is that UCLA will play the nationally teievised game onJan. 18 instead of the Bruins' previously scheduled contest at the ACC on Dec. 7. 
-

"To the best of my knowledge," Hussey said, "it's a deal, but I would prefer that Roger (Valdiserri) make that announcement." 
'lbe Notre Dame sports information depart· ment has not made any announcement that 
the UCLA game has been rescheduled, but Val­
diserri did offer an explanation of Notre 
Dame's situation. 
"If UCLA switches from Dec. 7 to Jan. 1 8," 
he said, "that leaves a hole for us. Now we're 
going to have to scramble to get somebody." 
It will be Notre Dame's responslbilty to 
replace the Dec. 7 contest with another game. 
Valdiserri said that the Irish will not play 
fewer than 28 games -the maximum allowed 
by the NCAA -this season. Therefore, Notre 
Dame may be forced to schedule a less­
competitive opponent to fill out the schedule. 
"It's awfully late in the year," Hussey 
pointed out. "Most people have their 
schedules set." 
As it now stands, the Irish schedule features 
14 8aines against teams that played in post­
season tournaments in 1985. Notre Dame will 
face NCAA qulifiers Maryland, DePaul and 
Dayton and NIT entrants UCLA, Marquette 
and Butler at the ACC. 
Notre Dame will continue its home-and­away series against Midwest independent rivals Marquette, Dayton and DePaul. The Irish also will play at North Carolina, Duke and Syracuse in nationally televl'ied games. 
Valdiserri explained how the networks schedule the big contests which they televise. 
"The big matchups on TV are made by the networks," he said. "If they need a good matchup, they'll call us and say, 'would you play that day? Would you play that team?' They'll give us the name of a team or a selec­tion ofthree or four teams. 
"That (TV exposure) is what has helped college basketball," he continued. "It started with the Notre Dame/UCLA game years ago. They were such great games, and other teams want~~ ~p be on, but the games had to be in­tersectional to maintain a good level of Inter­est." 
In addition, Valdiserri said, "when you make out your schedule, you try to arrange to meet good teams on weekends so that they might be good television games." 
Right now, it appears as though Notre Dame is faced with an open date on Saturday, Dec. 7. Considering that it is so late in the year, the Irish may have difficulty scheduling any team for that day, even without worrying about at­tracting the networks. 


The Observer 
Tuesday, August 27, 1985 -page 18 
Changes 
continuedfrom page 20 
Yves Auriol, fencing coaching at Portland State for the past 1 0 years, was named head coach of the Notre Dame women's fencing team. In ad­dition, he will assist Mike DeCicco with the men's team and teach in the physical education department. 
Auriol brings 20 years of ex­perience to Notre Dame, as a com­petitor, coach and private instructor. A 48-year old native of France, he served as the United States Olympic fencing coach in both 1980 and 1984... 
Amateur Wrestling News ranked the Notre Dame wrestling team's class of freshman wrestlers as the fourth best recruiting class in the country this fall. The Irish were listed by the publication as behind only powers Oklahoma, Oklahoma Stateand Northern Iowa. 
At 150 pounds, Greg Goad was rated one of the nation's top 20 in­coming freshmen and No. 1 at 158 pounds... 
Doug Snyder, the head track and cross country coach at New Prairie High School in New Prairie, Ind., was named assistant track and cross country coach of the Irish by head coach Joe Piane. The 35-year old South Bend native earned his under­graduate degree from Ball State in 1973 and received a master's degree in secondary education from In­diana in 1976. 
Previously, Snyder had been the track and cross country coach at John Adams High School in South Bend. His teams won the conference championship in both 1979 and 1980 and competed in the state championships in '80. He will con­tinue to teach at New Prairie, where he has three conference titles to his credit as well... 
Succeeding Sharon Petro as women's tennis coach is Michele Gelfman. Head coach of the men's and women's teams at Western Il­linois the past two seasons, she also will serve as an instructor in the physical education department. A 30-year old native of Brooklyn, N.Y., Gelfrnan earned her undergraduate degree in physical education/health from Northeast Missouri State in 1976, then moving to Indiana to 
Bums Rental 

2 Cubic Ft. Refrigerator $45 I School Year 
Delivery and Pickup Availabl 
323 W. Mishawaka Ave 
259-2833 

complete her master's in physical education in 1977. 
PriOf'~o coaching at Western II­linois, ('jelfrnan was the women's tennis and softball coach at Beloit College for three seasons ( 1980­83). This followed four years as the women's tennis coach at Valparaiso. 
A member of the United States Professional Tennis Association and the Intercollegiate Tennis Coaches Association, Gelfrnan also has earned various awards for her playing ability and was a finalist for t)Ie East Coast Clay Court Cham­pionships a few years back. 
Gelfrnan will direct the Irish 
women's team this year as it moves ·up to Division I play following a finish as national runner-up at the 
Division II level last spring. . . 
Heading the Saint Mary's tennis 
team in her first head coaching posi­
tion is Debra Laverie, a 1985 
graduate of the College. Laverie, 
who played tennis for the Belles at 
the number-one singles and doubles 
position for four years, ended her 
collegiate career ranked first in both 
singles and doubles competition in 
District 21 of the National Associa­
tion ofIntercollegiate Athletics. She currently ranks 1Oth nationally in the NAIA. 

Laverie, a Columbus, Ohio, native who has played tennis competitively since the age of 12, served as captain of the Saint Mary's team for her final two years and earned most valuable player honors all four years. In addi­tion, she also was awarded the Col­lege's prestigious Athlete ofthe Year award her junior and senior years... 
Tom carroll is set to join Irish hockey coach Lefty Smith's staff this fall as an assistant. The 24-year old native of Edina, Minn., was a mem­ber oftwo state championship teams at Edina East High School, and later attended Wisconsin, where he played on two national champion­ship teams ofthe Badgers. 
He was an assistant coach at Cul­
ver Military Academy in Culver, Ind., 
last season. 

Steve Beuerlein was selected as one of eight NCAA representatives on drug abuse. He will tape a public service announcement as part of a program to prevent youth drug abuse, with the announcements scheduled to run this fall during col­lege football games ... 



THE KING SAYS "Float like A Butterfly, 
Sting like A Bee.. Buy Now and Avoid F.E.T." 
LABOR DAY SALE AND 
otour WESTERN AVENUE STORE-Next to K-Mart in the Belleville Shopping Center, 
South Bend. 
BARTLES &JAYMES 
2~.! 

BAILEYS IRISH CREAM 
11!! 
J. ROGET CHAMPAGNE 

2/&·~~L 
w CANADIAN 
• CLUB 
''f{~' I''

~-··~, 7511L
..., 

,..:::::'ll 154 OIXI[WIY NORTH ~ ROSHINO 272-2522 
JAMESON IRISH WHISKEY 
88no! 
GLENMORE VODKA 

1£21 SOUTH BEHO lif  1910 liNCOlHWIY EIST  4807 W[SHRN liE  
SOUTH BEND  SOUTH BENO  SOUTH BEND  
233-4603  233-8430  233-8936  

PIICES IOOD AT llliiMISCEWI STOlES••• PIICES 1000 THIU 1-31~ 
INVER HOUSE SCOTCH WHISKEY 

J&B SCOTCH 
1l~n~ 
r--------------------~---~-~ 
~~.clltat~-------------------------------------------T-u.e.s.ct.ay•'•A•u•g•u-st_2_7_,_1_9_8_s_-.v_a_g_e_l_9 
Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 



.. 

"We'll ask you one more time, stranger-If you're really a cowboy from the Rio Grande, then why ain't your legs bowed or your cheeks tan?" 
Campus 

•5:30 p.m. · CrazyShirtorShorts Ice Cream Social, Fieldhouse Mall, Sponsored by Junior 
Kevin Walsh 

ACROSS 1 Neighbor of Nev. 5 "-In Toyland" 
10 Bulging pot 
14 Sly 
15 Of space 
16 Phobia 
17 Truly 
20 Bus.org. 
21 Bring together 
22 Road curves 
23 Author -Grey 
24 Goodies 
26 Kazan natives 
29 Distributed 
30 Man·­
31 Chef's creation 
32-culpa 
35 Truly 
39 Pipe bend 
40 Gives a poke 
41 Comical Kett 
42 Ancient 
43 Bad temper 
45 Quantity 
47 Greenish-blue 
48 So long ~1985 Tribune Media Semces, Inc. 
49 Run together 
All Rights Reserved 50-de deux Saturday's Solution 
53 Truly! 18 Open a little 57 Part of TLC 19 Antenna 58 Western flick 23 Stand for a 59 Gumbo must cup 
60 Coaster 24 Grinch's 61 Wild goose creator 62 Fearing that 25 Baylor U. 
site 

DOWN 26 -down 
1 Twinkling -(soften) 
eye 27 Mil. no-show 
2 Bonheur or 28 Plane section 
Ponselle 29 Sugar ­
3 Test 31 Mews sound 
4 Place for a 32 Speechless 
workout 33 Ending with 
5 Things to major 
twirl 34 -example 
6 Bandsman Shaw 36 Mate 50 Small dog 51 Makes known 52 RBie.g. 54 Burglarize 55 Pub fixture 56 Tenn. athlete 
7 Existed  37 Island off  
8 Corn serving  Galway  
9 Sch. sign  38 Lugosl or  46 Liturgical  
10 Counteract  Bartok  headdress: var.  
11 Minimal  42 Booed  47 Woody or Steve  
12 Shoestrings  43 Whippersnapper 48 Fundamentals  
13 Carney and  44 Absolute  49 Twixt phi and  
Tatum  45 "Let's make-"  kappa  

P • s T lw •R • s1s P • RI N C A A D D U P T D G D T 0 R N F A S T I D I 0 U S S A U N T 'tf:~~ T R 0 L L E Y  
-PEAR [i:WOUL­SAUDI PER.SEPAL A L L.t'i\N :iiSlA L E LOOIPmND I A TROD L A U R E L~P. T U G EDSEL.MUM ABIDE 1-S E T U P IS P E C­ 
A R T E M I S·~ J.. T U T E PERN.CKETY ELAN ~A I~ KEVIN LARD E D G E IS T A R E IS R A S  


Class and Student Activities Board, Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Lemon & Herb Pork Stir Fry Chicken & Chinese Vegetables.._ Featherweight Fruit Platter Fried Fish Square 
TV Tonight 
7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 8:00p.m. 
9:00p.m. 
16 Th(:A·T(:am 22 CBS Tu(:sday Night Movie: "~ In· Laws" 
28 Who's the Boss? 
28 Three's ACrowd 
16 Rlptld(: 
28 Moonll(Jhtlng 
34 Nova: "Monarch ofth(: Mountains" 
16 R(:mington St(:el(: 
22 West 57th 
28 MacGrud(:r & Loud 
34 Ufellne: "Dr. Charles B. Wilson" 

tO p.m. 
!0:30p.m. 
ll:OOp.m. 
11:30p.m. 12:30Lm. l:OOLm. 
Saint Mary's Salisbury Steak with Gravy Breaded Baked Fish Reuben Croissants Cheese Souftle 

16 NewsC(:nt(:r 16 
22 22 Eyewitness N(:WS 
28 Newswatch 28 
34 Soundstage: "Bluegrass Festival" 
16 Tonight Show 
22 U.S. ~n T(:nniS Highlights 
28 ABC NC'W8 Nl(Jhtllne 
22 CBS Late Movie: "Moonli(Jht" 
28 Lov(: Conntttlon 
16 l.at(: NI(Jht with David Letterman 
16 Allin the Family 
22 NiS!Jt Watch 


~----~~~----~--.---------------~----------------------~------------~~-·------------------------~-----------------~~----~-----------------­
• 
Tuesday, August 27, 1985-page 20
SRorts 
Beuerlein will be ready, but Griffin out for year 
QB says he'll Broken right ankle sidelines play in opener Irish first-team nose tackle 
ByJEFF BLUMB Should that happen, Greg Dingens SportsEditor would move up to take the job at left 
vs. Michigan 
tackle. Junior nose tackle Mike Griffin "It's a tough break," said Notresuffered a broken right ankle at last Dame head coach Gerry Faust, "butFriday morning's practice and will
ByJEFFBLUMB 
Mike Griffin is a tough player andbe lost to the Notre Dame football 
SportsEditor 
he'll be back and ready to go nextteam for the season. Griffin, who fall."
"I'll be ready for the Michigan started all but the Missouri and 
game. There's no doubt in my South Carolina games last year, again A two-year monogram winner, mind," Notre Dame quarterback was listed as No. 1 on the Irish depth Griffin is a veteran of 22 games in his Steve Beuerlein said last Friday, put­chart. Notre Dame career, and has been ting to rest any rumors to the con­The ankle was broken in two known for his solid play against the 
places and surgery was perfomed on run.
trary. 
Beuerlein underwent successful it Friday afternoon. The procedure, Sophomore quarterback Terrywhich saw two plates attached toshoulder surgery on April 16 to Andrysiak also suffered a recent in­repair a painful chipped collarbone the ankle, was termed "routine" by jury, but it was one of a far lessthat hampered his throwing last doctors and judged to be successful. 
serious nature. In somewhat of aGriffin will be in a cast for the nextseason. Many observers had pinned freak accident that occurred whileNotre Dame's hopes for success in six to eight weeks and there is some playing basketball, Andrysiak broke'85 on his ability to make a complete question as to whether or not he will a bone in his left hand, below hisrecovery in time for the season. That be able to participate in spring ball. 
little finger. The injury occurredquestion mark now may have been "The loss of Mike is going to have two weeks ago, just beforeerased with the junior's proclama­a big impact on our football team," Andrysiak was scheduled to returnsaid Rick Lantz, coach of thetion that he will be under center to campus for the opening of fallwhen Sept. 14 rolls around. ' defensive line. "He was one of the practice.
Surgery was performed by Dr. leaders on the defensive side, not vo­Frank}obe, a shoulder specialist and cally but by his consistent play. Andrysiak's hand was fitted with a the team physician of the Los An-;;. "We'll be fine, but the thing I feel cast before returning to Notre geles Dodgers. The procedure in­bad about is Mike. He has worked so 
Dame, and it is expected that he will darn hard. He has overcome a num­
volved removing a small piece <\t have to continue wearing some sort 
ber of injuries here and came back
clavicle bone from Beuerlein'' of protection on the hand for the 
shoulder. Jobe had been 100 per­this fall in great football shape only 
next four to six weeks. Because the cent successful with this type ofsur­to have this happen." finger is not on his throwing hand,Fifth-year senior Mike Kiernan is
gery in the past. however, he has not been forced to 
listed b~hind Griffin on the depth
Beuerlein, who has thrown at miss any practices, and he has suf­
chart with sophomore Matt Dingens 
both of the team's two-a-day fered no limitations on his playing 
practices on some days and at only behind him. Kiernan played in five time in practice thus far. one on others, is not yet through games last season, as well as in five with his rehabilitation. +: ' ''<&~" ' ' ' 'l1le-/PfteLiCiiet games his freshman year. Andrysiak, along with classmate 
"The arm still gets~ little tired," There also has been some talk of Tom Byrne, figures to be the
junior quarterback Steve Beuerletn put to rest any rumors that 
filling the hole created by Griffin's prominent backup to returning
he said. "I'll swim once in a while for be would not be ready for Notre Dame's opening football game injury by moving senior Eric Dorsey quarterback Steve Beuerlein this
with his recent proclamation that be would, Indeed, be under
tsee BEUERLEIN, page 15 from his starting left tackle position. season.

center when theIrish take on theMichigan Wolverines on Sept. 14. 
Administration changes highlight summer of '85 
Special to The Obeerftr 
To some people, it may have seemed quiet at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's over the summer months as most students left the two campuses for home. Still, there was quite a bit ofactivity relating to ND-SMC athletics over the summer. The following is a rundown ofsome of the more important happenings. 
Sharon Petro, larryGallo and Dennis Stark took on new responsibilities in the Notre Dame athletic depart­ment. Petro, formerly chairman of the University's Depart· ment of Physical Education and head coach of the Irish women's tennis team, gave up those positions to become an assistant athletic director under Gene Corrigan. 
After coming to Notre Dame in 1977, Petro served three years as the first women's basketball coach, taking a walk­on program and coaching it to a 20-6 record and a berth in the AlAW national tournament by her third season. 
Probably best known· as coach of the women's tennis team, she put together an impressive 114-45 record over seven seasons. Under her direction, the Irish finished third in Division II play in 1983 and '84, before placing second last spring. That '85 squad went 25-5 and Petro was named NCAA Division II coach of the year. 
She will continue to teach in the physical education department as she works in a number of administrative areas under Corrigan... 
Gallo, in his sixth season as baseball coach, takes over Petro's duties as head of the physical education depart­ment. He has been a phys ed instructor since coming to Notre Dame in 1979. 
After one season as an assistant baseball coach, Gallo took over the head coaching job in 1981 and presently owns a 119-108-3 record following the '85 season. He owns both undergraduate and master's degrees from the University ofRhode Island ... 
Following 27 years as Notre Dame's men's and women's swinuning coach, Stark gave up his coaching chores to take over as director of aquatics for the University's new swimming pool, which is nearing completion on the east side ofthe ACC. He will coordinate all activities in the yet­to-be-named facility, in addition to continuing to teach in the physical education deparunent. 
A .Notre Dame graduate, Stark ·compiled a 1 7 4-13 7-1 mark as head ofthe men's team and had been the program's only coach since it achieved varsity status in 1958. He also has been the women's coach for the four years it has been a vanity spon, twice earning North Star Conference coach of the year honors as his team has won consecutive NSC titles... 
Assuming the dual role ofSaint Mary's varsity volleyball coach and assistant director ofathletics and recreation was Mary Jo Lambert Lamben, who holds a B.S. degree in education from the University of Idaho and an M.A.T. degree from Whitworth College ofSpokane, Wash., taught Health and Physical Education at Saint Mary's last year in her first year with the College. She also assisted the Mis­hawaka Marian High School volleyball team to 1984 In­diana sectional and regional championships. 
Lambert previously taught and coached at Eastern Washington State College and Spokane Fall Community College. At Spokane, she founded the entire women's ath­letic program, which was the first in the state of Was­hington to award full women's scholarships. She also has served as a past chairperson ofthe Intercollegiate Athletics for Women (AIAW) Volleyball Division and was on the governing board for two years. 
Named the 1981 Washington State Volleyball Coach of the Year, Lambert's college coaching record stands at 211­
Football ticket distribution will begin with seniors on Sept. 2 
Itis time once again for that annual experience known as "ticket distribution." 
All students should receive season football ticket ap· plications at their local on-or off-campus address by Friday. 
Applications should not be mailed in. They should be brought, along with remittance (cash or check) and ID to Gate 3 of the ACC at the time specified for each class. 
One student may present up to four applications and ID cards. Married students who wish to purchase tickets for their spouses must show proofofmarriage. 
Tickets will be distributed to seniors on Monday, Sept. 2, to juniors on Tuesday, Sept. 3, to sophomores and graduate students on Wednesday, Sept. 4, and to freshmen on Thursday, Sept. 5. The ticket office will be open from 3 p.m. to 8 p.m. each day. 
60, while winning championships at the regional and state levels. 
Lambert, who is married to Notre Dame women's vol­leyball coach Art Lamben, will be serving in her first col­legiate athletic administrative position ... 
Taking over as head men's and women's swimming coach at Notre Dame was Tim Welsh, who had been the coach atJohns Hopkins the past eight years. In that time, he took the Hopkins men's team to two NCAA Division III national championships, in 1978 and then again in 1979. besides winning eight Middle Atlantic Conference cham­pionships. 
Amember ofthe NCAA Swimming Rules Committee for women, Welsh also guided the Hopkins women's team to six winning seasons and one MAC crown. He was named national Division III coach ofthe year in 1979. 
A 40-year old native of Landsdowne, Pa., Welsh graduated magna cum laude from Providence in 1966, ear­ning his master's in English from Virginia in 1967 ... 
see CHANGES, page 18 

Those students who have an incorrect class shoWn on their applications must obtain a letter from the dean's office of their college indicating their correct standing. This letter must be presented at Gate 3 along with the ticket application. 
Any student who has not received his application by Friday should go to the LaFortune Ballroom between 3 
p.m. and 7 p.m. on Friday or between 9 a.m. and 1 p.m. on Saturday to pick up an application. The Ombudsmen will have a desk set up to handle this procedure. 
Notre Dame Ticket Manager Mike Bobinski said that it will not be possible for students to get a second set oftick­ets by getting an application from the OBUD desk. 
"Some people may try to double up and get two tickets," he said, "but it is only a matter of time before we catch them because we will be checking the write-in applica­tions against the pre-printed ones." 






