
---~---------------~------------~--------------------------­
MS Drive -page 8 

VOL XIX, NO. 90 thl' indqx·ndl'nl .,llldl·nt new..,paper .,lT\ ing notrt dame and .,aint man··.., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1985 

Candidates for SBP, SBVP clash over issues as campaigns continue 
ByMIKE MILLEN Browne said his ticket was SentorStaffReporter qualified for the job. "I think that Joanie and I were strong in student Pat Browne and Bill Healy, the government, and very effective. two candidates for Student Body 'Experience' is something you can President, faced off last night in a put on a resume; 'tested' is not. We debate which featured responses as have ideas and movtivation, and we diverse as the questions. are here to work with the adminis­The event was carried live over tration and serve the student body." WVFI-AM, and featured a panel of A panel member asked, "What's representatives from The Observer, the one thing you want to be Scholastic, and WVFI. remembered for?" Browne an­
Healy and his running mate Duane swered, "Student. government is not Lawrence promised a "fresh out­respected. What I want to do is bring look." Lawrence said, "we can see government back to the students." student government's weaknesses He said he would improve commu­and strengths," with Healy adding, nication by sending newsletters and "we are outsiders looking in." "instituting a monthly address." 
Joanie Cahill, Browne's vice Healy said he would like to be presidential candidate, responded, remembered as making changes in
Meanwhile, Back in the Lab ... 

"Sometimes when you're looking in social life. "There is going to be a Mike Schmutz analyzes the set-up for a laser workfor three weeks on individual experiments in it is possible to not see the faults. We change in that," he stated. 


experiment in the Unit Operations laboratory class an atmosphere designed to imitate the real world of had a hard time getting the student Both tickets agreed student gov­for senior chemical engineers. Teams of students a working engineer. store passed, but it was successful in ernment needed a higher profile the end." Both sets ofcandidates claimed to 
have sufficient experience for the job. Browne, a Student Senator, said his work on the student store along with other committes has made him 
Archbishop Weakland emphasizes 


U.S. place in worldwide economy 
knowledgeable in student govern­ment.

By CHRIS SKORCZ People are the most important and "Let me disagree with what Karl "I'm not proud of this achieve­
StaffReporter that's why we are concerned about Marx said about religion being the ment myself," Browne said, adding
poverty and unemployment. Any 'opiate' of the people. Everything is he thought the store was a great
The role of the United States in policy must be concerned first with of importance to God and us. One achievement for student govern­
creating greater economic justice in the dignity, value, and worth of becomes concerned about the ment itself.
a "global economy" was emphasized every person on earth. Ifone is mar­whole world. This is called eschatol­

l
Cahill has served as president of Weakland, Chairman of the Ad Hoc grow or contribute. We need Christ. 
in a speech by Archbishop Rembert ginalized by society, one cannot ogy. It deals with the coming of Lyons Hall and chairwoman of the Women's Role Presentation to the Healy would like to see a change
Committee on Social Teaching and solidarity between all people," he the U.S. Economy. said. "We live in hope of the future 
Board ofTrustees. in the structure of student govern­When asked by an onlooker how ment. "We would like to see hall
Weakland spoke last night at the Weakland said the committee with realism of the present for it is Center for Continuing Education on faced many problems before they here that we fulfill our roles as Chris­he could claim to be "experienced presidents having a bigger say. They and tested," Healy pointed to his po­are much closer to their constitu­the subject of the Catholic Bishops' even began to write the letter. "We tians. Money touches the lives of Pastoral Letter on Economics. were forced to balance our faith, people and how they fulfill the spiri­

sition as cabinet member. "We ents, " he said, adding accountability "Today's economy is such that Biblical vision with our reason vi­tual and temporal aspects of their 
worked on freshmen orientation and communication as important and transfer orientation," he said, ideas. Browne agreed, saying,

our decisions affect the rest of the sion. One element we had to show lives. But it is here that we ecclesias­world. For this reason, we can't was that the Biblical and natural vi­tics are criticized. We are often while Lawrence added his experi­"There is a lot of conflict. We need divide it into a foreign policy and a sions were one. But that is hard to do guilty of deductive reasoning in 
ence as St. Edward's Hall president more communication." and seat on the student senate gave Healy said his "number one

domestic policy," he said. because how does one speak as a bis­which we formulate some principles "We judge any economic system hop to people who don't share the him "an insight on what's going on." priority is social life. The administra-The team says it is "leadership that
by what it does to and for pe"ple. same faith? see WEAKLAND, page 6 see DEBATE, page 6makes a difference." 


Culum unopposed in District Two in race for senate 
By MICHAELJ. CHMIEL within my district is unity, because with­More than anything else, it shows the order to get direct feedback, and the es­StaffReporter out the alcohol, the social life has apathy." tablishment ofa bi-weekly newsletter. deteriorated quickly," said Culum. "One In District Three, however, the race for "I also think there should be more social 
As the week comes to a close, the races way to combat the social life issue is to get its senate seat is alive and well as freshman things like the Keenan Revue and, also, for the next body of Student Senators are to know more people. The more people Tom Browne is opposing sophomore John more student-geared projects like the stu­reaching their peaks in the five senate dis­you know, the more options you have." Ginty in the South Quad area. dent store," said Browne. "I think they (the tricts as candidates scramble to express Culum's other ideas for the upcoming present student senate) got pretty much their platforms and imprint their names in term include the clarification of rules for Browne, an Allentown, Pa., native, done this year, especially with the student the minds offellow students. the next election and an enlarged version believes that changes are needed on store as the bookstore was monopolizing." 
In District Two, which includes Zahm, ofthe big-sisters and big-brothers program campus. He especially advocates increased Ginty, a Fisher Hall finance major, places Cavanaugh, Keenan, Stanford, Farley and for incomingfreshmen on the North Quad. communication between the students and the responsibility of student life on the Breen-Phillips Halls, the matter is basically Also, he is advocating an open-dorm week their elected body of representatives. shoulders ofthe senators. 
l ~ , 
settled as junior K.C. Culum is running un­during which people would be able to visit "I'm running because I feel that there "The main reason that I am running is opposed for its seat. each dorm and get to know their neighbors has to be some changes in the school," said because the people in the senate should di­
"I'm running because I've been com­well and the continuation of the District Browme, a Fisher Hall resident. "I think rectly be involved and direct all of their plaining for three years and I've never Two Advisory Council. that there should be better communica­efforts towards the improving student life done anything," said Culum, a Cavanaugh tion between the student government and on campus," said Ginty. resident. "I figured that it would be a good "I'm a realist and I realize that the senate the districts through, for example, the dis­"I think it (the present senate) has done, idea, instead of complaining, to try to get can only do as much as it is given the trict advisory council and the like." overall, an adequate job, but there's always something done." delegation to from the Administration and Browne's qualifications for the senate room for improvement," continued Ginty. 
Culum, a College ofArts and Letters stu­the student body president and such," said stem mainly from his previous high school "Here! on campus, we really need to have dent from Helena, Mont., has served on the Culum. "I feel that if it (the senate) can experience and his observation of the some social alternatives for the students. 
j

Cavanuagh Hall Council for two years. Ac­gain a little bit ofcredibility, it will have the campus, he explained. One ofthe unfortunate things last year was 

cording to the candidate, he has been in­ability to undergo more worthwhile objec­Among the key issues that Browne when the new (alcohol) policy came volved in student government throughout tives. believes require attention are the improve­down, the student government threw any his life and has held leadership positions in "It's nice being unopposed," continued ment of communications, the establish­credibility it had out the window because his home town. Culum. "But 1'111 not happy and I'm not ment of a district advisory council, 
"One thing that I'm going to try to stress mad. It's just something that occurred. frequent meetings with district senators in see SENATE, page 5 


,
, 
I 
L 
The Observer 

In Brief 
Opposition leaderKim Dae-jungreturned 
home today to Seoul, South Korea, from a two-year exile in the United States to resume his fight for political reforms in South Korea. The airliner carrying Kim and a party ofsupporters to Seoul after an overnight stop in Tokyo, landed at Kimpo International Airport in the outskirts of the capital amid tight security. Although Kim is un­der a 20-year prison sentence on a conviction of sedition, govern­ment authorities said earlier this week he would not be returned to jaii.-AP 
Soviet President President Konstantin Chernenko, who has not been seen in public for nearly seven weeks, addressed the regular meeting ofthe ruling Politburo this week in Moscow, the official news agency Tass said yesterday. Tass did not say when the meeting occurred, but the Tass story was dated yesterday, the day the Politburo normally meets. Chernenko, 73, has not been seen in public since Dec. 27, when television showed him at a Kremlin awards ceremony. Several developments since then have suggested that he was seriously ill. The Soviet press has carried reports of messages from Chernenko and published decrees signed by him, but there had been no reports that he had spoken to Kremlin gatherings before yesterday's Tass report. -AP 
Of Interest 
The Notre Dame Department ofMusic 
has rescheduled the organ recital of guest artist Paul Jenkins. The recital Is now set for 8 p.m. on Sunday, Feb. 24 in Sacred Heart Church. The concert is free and open to the public. -Tbe Obseroer 
Share the experiences of two 1982 Notre Dame graduates who have just returned from Chile. Liz Hellinghausen and Joe Regotti, of the Holy Cross Associates program, will share slides and commentary on their experiences with the Chilean people, both in Santiago and in the northern area of Vallenar. The presentation will begin at 7 Sunday evening, Feb. 10, in the Center for Social Concerns Coffee House. -The Obseroer 
Seniorstudents ofaccountingat the Univer· 
sity of Notre Dame will renew their annual tax assistance program for low-income families at· several South Bend and Mishawaka centers tomorrow. Assisted by faculty and area certified public ac­countants, the free service will continue through the Apr. 1 5 filing deadline. Similar teams last year assisted 1 ,83 7 taxpayers and generated returns totaling 5244,306. Two special SWAT teams (Students Working at Taxation) are on call at 239-5296 to assist shut-Ins and residents of nursing homes. At Notre Dame, the team will be at the LaFortune Student Center from 2:30 until 5 p.m. -Tbe Obseroer 
The International Festivalwill be presented by 
the International Students Organization tomorrow night at 7:30 in Washington Hall. Admission is free.-The Obseroer 
Senator Nancy Landon Kassebaum ca. 
Kansas) will give a lecture titled "The Merits and Demerits ofa Com· parable Worth System" at noon Monday in the student lounge of the Notre Dame Law School. The lecture is sponsored by the Law School's ThomasJ. White Center on Law and Government as on ofits Distinguished Visitor Lecture Series. · The Obseroer 
Jeremiah Sweeney'swill be the site ofa senior class party tonight from 4 to 7. Appropriate dress is required. · The Obseroer 

Weather 
,­
-:.'():
Partly sunny and cold today with highs in the mid teens. Fair and not so cold tonight and tomorrow with lows from 5 to 10 above and highs in the low to mid 20s. -AP 

Today's Issue was produced by: 
Design Editor ................. Maureen Murphy
The Observer-
Design Assistant ............ Matt Gracianette Layout Staff. ...................... Mariel Labrador janette Burns 
Margo Kirchner lbc Observer (USPS 599 l·4000) Is Tom Hall published Monday lhrough Friday and 
Typeseller ........................ Bill Hlghducheck on home football Saturdays, except News Editor ........................... Marc Ramirez during exam and vacalion periods. lbc Copy Editor .............................. jane Kravclk Observer Is published by !he srudents of Sports Copy Editor....................... Phil Wolf lhe Unlversily of None Dame and Saint ~ewpoint Copy Editor .........john Heasly Mary's College:. Subscrlplion.• may be Viewpoint Layout.. .............. )ohn Mennell purchased for 130 per year ( 120 Jkr se· Features Copy Editor ..........John Mennell mesu:r) by wriling lbc Obscn'cr, P.O. Features lAyout ................... Andl Schnuck Box Q, Noire Dame, Indiana 46556. ND Day Editor ...................... Mark Wlmers lbc Obscn'cr 15 a member of lbc SMC Day Editor ............ Maggie O'Connell Assodatrd Press. All reproduction Ad Design .................. Mary Carol Creadon rlghL• are r~rved. john O'Connor Pbotograpber ............... Chaltanya Panchal Typist... ............................. Bill Hlghducheck 
Friday, February 8, 1985-page 2 



The grace in what we endure 
Dear Freshmen: 
It has now snowed each day for at least three billion years, and we are walking to class four inches above the 
Bob 

real sidewalk. This is what they warned you about. 
Vonderheide 
South Bend winters. So as the light flakes fall heavily on the corners ofyour Editor-in-chief mouth, you may at times be caught wondering 

whatever happened to the glory days ofhigh school. 
I am too. As a senior about to take measurements for a ·Faust, senior final-exam exemptions, the Death March, cap and gown, I sometimes wonder if I ever finished special dinners, the Polish Wedding, gambling at Mardi those days called secondary education. So much has Gras, concerts, the alcohol policy and (of course) the happened during the course of these four years that weather. high school seems like a purgatory far, far away. Wasn't So we all share the bitterness. Which explains why at senior year in high school the time when you just didn't the age of 21 or 22, we still complain about the food at study? You filled out endless applications, nervously an­the dining hall, when in a few months we'll be trying to ticipated the future, and partied (illegally) with your cook for ourselves. friends. Did you see the Keenan Revue? Certainly it 
Hmmm. Sounds an awful lot like now. represents a fantastic fusion ofthat famous Notre Dame 
But there's a difference creativity, but between the between senior year 1981 songs and funny lines lurked and senior year 1985. Back a disappointing theme.
Surt:! beaG din in~ h~ll cool::i~, e~? 
then, I was excited about Unlike past years when the 
Notre Dame, and today ... show ended on a few up­
I 

well ... I just wonder if we beat skits reminding all ofus 
have been too hard on our­that it ain't so bad here, this 
selves. Why is it that my year's show ended on a 
friends grumble that they downer. I left with the 
wouldn't recommend this feeling that someone was 
place to their little brothers trying too hard to make a 
and sisters? We have point. 
become cynics and we All I know is that Notre 
frown too much. Dame, the school, is differ­
Comments made last year ent than Notre Dame, the by former Student Body legend. We students live President Brian Callaghan with Notre Dame, the are telling. "The quality of school, everyday, and we are life here at Notre Dame has the first to criticize this or been going down steadily that. But in the back of our since my freshman year," he minds ought to be -and I said. "It's not just the alcohol issue; it's the whole ad­think it really is -Notre Dame, the legend, which con­ministration attitude toward students. It's like a parent­stantly hovers over us like some dome in the sky. And child relationship. I don't think I would recommend despite what we say, that's what we'll take with us when Notre Dame to an incoming freshman." we leave. 
Perhaps Callaghan was bitter. He served as one oftwo As Father Robert Griffin so eloquently says, surely students on the University's 10-member Committee on there are graces In what we endure. the Responsible Use of Alcohol. The committee swore him to secrecy during its deliberations, and when the alcohol-policy bombshell was dropped last April, stu­dents wondered out loud why Callaghan didn't stop it. The Obseroer publishes its official opinion 
Piftle. It wasn't Callaghan's fault. Nor is it the fault of in the form of an unsigned, large-print, wide-our current student government or the student activies • I
column arucle on the Viewpointpage. These 
board. You have to understand, freshmen, that we as ·­
columns represent the opinion of a majority
seniors have -to some extent · given up. The Notre 
of The Obseroer editorial board. All other
Dame we knew is not the Notre Dame you know, and I am afraid that on far too many occasions we are getting columns, on the Viewpoint page or other­in your way. wise, are the views oftheir authors and do not 
A friend of mine is fond saying how much our class 
necessarily reflect the views of the editorial 
has been "dumped on," and he quickly rattles off his list: 
board orThe Obseroer staff. 
--­1YPJNG  Attention all off-campus juniors &abroad  
students from last year...  
Term Papers  As there is a mix up with the Registrar's Office  
Resumes  and their current off-campus address list, you  
Letters  are cordially being invited to attend the Hall  
Manuscripts  Party of your choice on Feb. 16 at 10:00 pm of  
the Junior Parents' Weekend. Please notify  
Word Processing  either the Hall Coordinator of your choice or  
Call Chris at:  myself by Feb.10. Thank you,  
234-8997  l  Duane Lawrence 283-3744 Hall Parties Chairperson  

~==============================~ 
t**** * * * * * * * * * * * ****!* 
t~ DISTINGUISHED STUDENT : 
: AWARD : 
~ * 
~ * 
: The Notre Dame Alumni Association will be accepting nominations : ~ from February 1 to February 22 for the 4th annual Distinguished Student * : Award. The Distinguished Student Award was created to honor an out-: ~ standing senior student at the University based on the following criteria: * 
~ ~ 
~ * 
:~ 1) Service to Notre Dame, ~ * 
2) Service to the Community, and, ..­
~ i* 
: 3) Good Academic Standing. 
t ~
Applications can be obtained at the Alumni Association Office on f the second floor of the Administration Building, and at the Center for i ~ Social Concerns. ..­
~ : 
~ Nominations must be submitted to the Association by Feb. 22, 1985. : 
~ 
****************************************************** 

The Observer Friday, February 8, 1985 -page 3 

Thr Obscrver/Chaitanya Panchal 

Archbishop Rembert Weakland, chairman of the Aa Hoc Com­mittee on Social Teaching and the U.S. Economy speaks in the Cen­terfor Continuing Education. Weakland spoke about the Bishops' Letter on Economics. Story, page 1. 
DOMINO'S PIZZA EATING CONTEST 
WHEN: Halftime of ND Women's 8-ball games 
Second semifinals: Sat., Feb., 9, 12pm 
N.D. vs. Xavier 


DORM COMPETITION 
Morrissey vs. Holy Cross GIVEAWAVS: Hats, cups, and pizza coupons 
PRIZES: Season pizza pass for winning team 
(Free pzzo every week 11 
Winning dorm also gets a free pizza party courtesy of DOMINO'S PIZZA II 




Cadet receives unique chance 
By GRETCHEN PICHLER 
StaffReporter 
John Murphy, a senior Army cadet from Crystal Lake, Ill., recently was named one of 30 participants nationwide in the highly selective Army Enrichment Program. 
Murphy said he was "tickled to death" about his acceptance to the program, which enables him to pursue a master's degree at the school of his choice after he is com­missioned as a second lieutenant in May. 
"If you'd asked me a year ago about graduate school, I'd have said 'no,' " said Murphy, "but there was no way I could turn this kind of op­portunity down." 
Murphy, a chemical engineering major, has applied to three ofthe six schools recommended to him by Notre Dame for higher learning in his field. His first choice is Stanford University, his second University of California at Berkeley, and his _third Northwt>"tern University. He hopes to hear from the schools by mid­March. 
Lt. Col. Robert Skinner of the Army ROTC department, said the program was "based on the needs of the Army, and the Army needs en­gineers." 
"Right now there is a big need for technically trained officers," ex­plained Murphy. "(The program) better prepares you, and gives you a chance to further your education and make you more appealing for your career goals." 
Murphy will be working in re­search and development, specifi­cally in the nuclear, biological, and chemical fields. "There is a wide range of things I could be doing. People don't realize the opportuni­ties the Army makes available _to you," he said. 
Although the program has been in existence for several years, Murphy is the first Notre Dame recipient. He was one of 800 ROTC students nationwide to apply to the program in early December, and was notified ofhis acceptance a month later. 
Murphy was chosen on the basis of his grade point average, his recommendations, and his perfor­mance at Advance Camp last sum­mer. He placed 32nd of 1,600 students across the country who at­tended the camp in Fort Riley, Kan. He was the highest-ranking Notre Dame student. 
"A lot ofmy extracurricularactivi­ties were to my advantage," said Murphy, who plays baseball and was social commissioner for Cavanaugh Hall. 
Skinner said Murphy was ac­cepted for his leadership, and his po­tential quality as an officer, backed up by the fact that he did extremely well at Advance Camp last summer. "We are extremely proud ofhim; it's a very meaningful thing," Skinner said. 
After completing his master's, Murphy will spend six years in the Army. He plans to be married in early June, during the 30-day leave period granted him after his com­missioning May 19. 

Commencement speaker discussed 
By MARK DILLON 
StaffReporter 
The name of the commencement speaker for the class of 1985 will be announced by University President Father Theodore Hesburgh on Mon­day or Tuesday. 
At a meeting of the Senior Advi­sory Council held Wednesday at Senior Bar, Council President Dean Christy announced ffesburgh's deci­sion on a commencement speaker 
would  be  made  public  after  the  
Board  of  Trustees  meeting  this  
weekend.  

Christy also announced the coun­cil had submitted three names for honorary degrees. The names of Dr. Denton Cooley, the surgeon who performed the first artificial heart transplant, President Ronald Reagan, and Chrysler Chairman Lee Iacocca were submitted to Assistant Provost Isabel Charles prior to last semes­ter's finals. 
Although the council would prefer the commencement speaker to be one ofthese three men, Christy recognized that Hesburgh, as Uni­versity president, has the final deci­sion. 
"It is the honor ofthe president of the University to pick the graduation speaker," said Christy. "The Senior Advisory Council's suggestions are strongly considered, but ultimately it is up to Father Hesburgh. 
At the board meeting this weekend, Hesburgh will submit a name for their approval. Following board approval the name will be an­nounced. 
Also discussed at the council meeting were plans for the Senior Formal. The formal will be held the weekend of March 30 at the Palmer House in Chicago. The cost of the weekend, including the bid, rooms at the Pal,mer House and meals is projected to be -approximately SI05. Bids go on sale Wednesday, Feb. 20. 
THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
THE LEADER IN ENTERTAINMENT 
Presents ... 




MARDI GRAS 
FRIDAY: DANCE-A-THON 
Stepan Center -6 p.m. -6 a.m. $2 ticket admission is raffle chance on 
Free Trip to New Orleans 
for the real Mardi Gras! 6 -8: Big Twist & Mellow Fellows 
Jazz Bandfrom Chi-Town 
9-1: Rock with the Danger Bros. 1-6: D.J. SATURDAY: Airband & Talent Contest 8:00 -South Dining Hall 
] 1 
1 

$1.50 Admission, judged by audience appreciation 
$1oo•• First Prize in each Contest 
~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer .Friday, February 8, 1985 -page 4 


Former ND students to detail Chile on basis of Holy Cross experience 
By SHARON HOUK 
News Staff 
Do you ever wonder where you will be two years after you graduate from Notre Dame? 
Two 1982 graduates of Notre Dame have spent the last two-and-a­halfyears as Holy Cross Associates in Chile. 
joe Regotti and Liz Hellinghausen have returned to Notre Dame to share their experiences of this country Sunday at 7 p.m. in the Cen­ter for Social Concerns. 
Their presentation will include a slide presentation and discussion titled, "Chile: State of Beauty -State ofSeige." 
According to the two associates, Chile is in its 11th year of military dictatorship. There have long been poor in this Latin American country, but the 1980-81 crash ofthe Chilean economy and the subsequent devaluation of the paso has made poverty more poignantly felt among the people. Unemployment is high and government repression is part of daily life, they said. 
The attitude of the government toward the type of work Regotti and Hellinghausen were involved in is at best toleration, they commented. 
Regotti and Hellinghausen lived under the same conditions as the people they were serving. Regotti's community used the same organic self-subsistence farming techniques that they taught the peasant-type farmers, or campesinos. 
Hellinghausen's community lived on the edge of Santiago in a house like the others in the poor urban working-class neighborhoods called poblaciones. 
Regotti thinks it is by this holistic pastoral ministry, an accompani­ment with the poor, that a context of mutual respect is established be­tween Holy Cross Associates and the Chilean people. "You reach people by sharing the life that they live," Regotti said. 
In a reflection on his experience he wrote, "It is only in the context of this true sharing or accompaniment that one enters into 'Ia con.fianza;' a relationship of mutual confidence, trust and respect, with those to whom one is ministering." 
Hellinghausen worked with children in the fifth through ninth grades. She taught at a school in San­tiago where the students rhymed 
boy estudeante, manana cesante, 
which in English means "today a stu­dent, tomorrow unemployed." 
Because of difficult entrance re­quirements and high costs, few have the opportunity to attend college, Hellinghausen said. 
Hellinghausen said she had to be careful of what she said in the class­room, avoiding anything that could be construed as political. 
Regotti spent his first year in Chile teaching. His second year was spent working in the Andes mountains ap­proximately 350 miles from San­

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
t  t  
t  t  
t  t  
t  t  
t  t  
t  t  
t  t  
t  t  
t  t  
t  A Touch of Class  t  
t  t  
tt  The Oak Room Cafeteria  tf  
t  invites you  f  
t  to  t  
t  enjoy this special  
f  meal  
t t t  Friday, February 8, 1985 4:00 ­7:00p.m.  
t  French Onion Soup  
t  Fried Vegetable Basket  
t  Seafood Cocktail  
t  
:  CHICKEN COQ AU VIN  $4.60  
SURF&TURF  5.75  
:  MUSHROOM QUICHE  4.10  
t  BROILED HADDOCK ALMADINE  3.85  
:  Dinner price includes salad, vegetable  f  
t f  and potato. Reservations will be accepted  f f  
239-7518  t  



L--~~~~~~~-~~~---J 

Downtown, Mishawaka 
255-7737 

for reservations Lunch ll:OOa.m. to 2:30p.m. Dinner 5:00p.m. 
Closed 
tiago. His community ministered to a rural parish of more than 30 small villages. 
By personally assuming the life and culture of the people of the villages, Regotti said he and his fel­low Holy Cross Associates hoped to empower the people with the tools to help themselves and to develop a Christian sense ofcommunity. 
Hellinghausen says she thinks a community is important because it allows associates to express their commitment to each other as well as to the people ofChile. 
Both Hellinghausen and Regotti think they have been received well by the Chilean people. 
On how they are percieved, Regotti commented, "Our identity is a lot more related to the Catholic Church." 
Hellinghausen says she thinks as­sociates are seen as part of the Church's global missionary work rather than as foreigners orYankees. 
There are currently nine as­sociates in the Chilean program working in various areas. 
urant 

Best inAged St--
....... 
120 N. Main Street 


Erasmus Books 
1027 E. Wayne TnPs-Sun, noon-6 1 block south of Jefferson & Eddy ( Used & out of print books bought, sold, searched t' 
(~~~~~~~~~-&-~~~~~ 

NOTRE DAME AVE. APTS. ROOMMATES NEEDED!  •  
Boys and Girls  •  
Call office 3-6 DAILY  
234-6647 

• 




MILLIONS AGAINSTMS 
i1~KICKOFF 
laiSIC TEl.EYJSION 


PARTY 
this Saturday, FEB 9 at the South Dome ofthe ACC from 9:30 pm •· 12:00 am 
featuring PIZZA ~1: COKE an exclusive 3 hour M1V Music Vicieo and a chance to WIN 2 tickets to Florida for Spring Break 
Tickets are $2 and are available in the'Dining Halls or at the door sponsored in part by 


Friday, February 8, 1985 -page 5 
SMC readies for 1985 Orientation 
By MARY FRAN GISCH 
News Staff 

Although snow is still on the ground and the dog days of August seem far away, the Saint Mary's Ori­entation Committee is taking the first steps in planning to welcome next year's freshmen. 
The chairwoman for the Saint Mary's Orientation Committee, Carol Hastings, recently chose her assistant chairwoman and other committee members. 
"I'm really pleased with the com­mittee I have to work with," said Hastings. "Three ofus worked on or­ientation last year and we know what to expect. We also have a good mix ofgirls from different classes." 
Assistant chairwoman is sopho­more Maura Barille. Other commit­tee members include juniors Mary Doyle and Kim McNamara, both of whom were on the committee last year. 
Sophomore members are Elizabeth Buhr, Megan McMonigle, and Lisa Lawler. Freshmen members include Mary Beth Braun, Kathleen Herbst, and Kathy Bryan. 
Hastings, with Saint Mary's Direc­tor of Student Activities Mary Anne O'Donnell, chose the committee by interviewing applicants. "We were pleased with large turnout of appli­cants we had in order to make our selection," said Hastings. 
As the assistant chairwoman for the 1984 orientation, Hastings was involved in the new approach to ori­entation implemented that year. She said this year's orientation will run much like last year's. 
"Instead of cramming everything orientation should cover into one hectic day, we spread out the events from the original Saturday through the next two days," Hastings said. "This will allow for much more time and events for students. We do plan to have more student leaders for the freshmen groups." 
The big sister/little sister program was replaced last year by student leaders who headed groups offresh­men. "It worked well last year be­cause the freshmen got to know each other better and no one was left out." 
The committee, which has grown from six members to 10, will be ac­cepting applications for orientation student leaders. 
For those interested in becoming student leaders, there will be two meetings the week ofFeb. 18. Atten­dance at one meeting is mandatory. 
Interviews will follow. "We feel interviewing all the applicants is an important process for this selec­tion," said Hastings. 
"Things should go very smoothly this orientation. All the un­foreseeable problems any first-year program has will be worked out." 


Blind activists delay USAir flight , 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -A group of 30 blind activists delayed the departure of a USAir flight yesterday night and then staged a noisy demonstration at National Airport to protest USAir's refusal to seat a blind passenger near one of the jetliner's emergency ex­its. 
The protest was sponsored by the National Federation of the Blind, 

Getting through college 
isn't easy. But help is on 
the way. Because 
Domino's Pizza is offering 
you financial assistance on 
your next pizza. The Pizza 
made with 1 00% natural 
cheeses and fresh, not 
frozen toppings. And we'll 
deliver it, custom-made, to 
your door in 30 minutes or 
less. GUARANTEED. Call 
Domino's Pizza and help 
yourself to the best tasting 
pizza around. 

• 
en DOMINO'S 
0 PIZZA 
!c DELIVERS™ 
:EN FREE.
ot! 
l"'lift. 
........ ® 
Now open at 11am tor LUNCH 

$2.00 off any 
16"·2item pizza. 
Offer good at 
listed locations. Good 
Fri., Sat.,&. sun. 

I I I 
Fast, Free Delivery™ 

I
Plaza 23 Center 

1835 South Bend Ave. I 
South Bend 

I
Phone 277-2151 
JTC NA 102 2650 

I
1984 Dornmo s P1zza Inc 

I I I I I 
L1m1ted delivery area. Our drivers carry less than $20.00 _ 1984 Dom,no's p,zza. Inc 
~-~~------~~-------------------~ 
which accused USAir ofa civil rights violation for forcing the federation's Indianapolis chapter president off a plane Wednesday at National be­cause he would not vacate his seat adjacent to an emergency exit. 
Airline officials said they were en­forcing a USAir rule, similar to other airlines' rules, prohibiting certain people · including the handicapped, the elderly and young children from seats near emergency exits. 
The chapter president, attorney Russell Anderson, returned to the airport yesterday -accompanied by members of the Baltimore-based federation -and demanded a seat in one of the emergency-exit rows aboard a USAir flight bound for In­dianapolis. 
USAir personnel again refused to seat Anderson near an emergency exit, although they offered any ofthe other seats available on the plane. But Anderson declined an alternate seat. 


Senate 

continuedfrom page I 
of the way things were occurring and that there weren't any alterna­tives given to the students along with the policy change." 
For District Three, which in­cludes Dillon, Fisher, Pangborn, Lyons, Morrissey, Badin and Howard Halls, Ginty is advocating a monthly newsletter for residents, a better procedure for distributing student tickets at the ACC, and increased parking for South Quad students by expanding D-6. He is also in favor so­cial happenings like the recently begun Blow-off for a While Club and the continuance of the LaFortune 
"The seat doesn't matter," Ander­1 
~ 
son said. "It's the principle." 
USAir spokesman Dave Shipley told reporters, "We welcome (Anderson) to board the plane. But it is our policy not to seat handi­capped people near emergency ex­its." 
Anderson and 30 supporters then gathered at the exit gate in an effort to prevent other passengers from boarding the plane. However, USAir officials quietly guided passengers into the plane through nearby gates ­unknown to the blind protesters. 
The 110·seat DC-9 jet departed without Anderson after being delayed by 30 minutes due to the gateside blockade. 
The demonstrators · chanting such slogans as "USAir Is Grossly U n­fair!" -then continued their protest by marching to the airline's ticket counter in the airport's concourse. 
No arrests were reported. 
rennovation project, along with a 
new student center. 
Dinty believes his qualifications basically stem from his role as a stu­dent and observer of "what's been going on for two years." 
"I think the job can be more useful to the students if somebody is 

,1
elected who is really committed to getting the goals that they set for­

1
ward carried out, and I think I am," said Ginty. "Communication is a big 

l, ~ part of it · letting the people know what you are doing so that the indi­vidual senator is held responsible to the students and for the purposes for which they elected him." 
In the end, the students of the South Quad will decide the fate of the District Three Senate seat on Tuesday, Feb. 12, when the senate elections are held. 

JUNIORS &SENIORS spend an afternoon in your specific career interest! 
Career Orientation Day 
in Indianapolis 
THURSDAY, MARCH 7, 1985 
apply at Alumni Association Office by Friday, February 8 
$12.00 fee for transportation, lunch & dinner 
sponsored by Alumni Association 
SARG 

1 
1 
~ 

1 
, ~ 
1 
1 
I 
.----------------~-----------~-------------~-~ ----~ ---~---~ -----­

The Observer 
Debate 
continued from page 1 
tion took something away (with the alcohol policy) and didn't give something back," adding, "the social life at Notre Dame is atrocious." 
Browne also thought a problem existed. "The alcohol policy is one year in, and people are still com­plaining. We want the university to have matching funds (for social events). We also want to have a per­manent shuttle service to malls and restaurants," he said. 
A sophomore engineer, worried the addition of two courses in the proposed curriculum changes could force him to take over 20 credits per semester, asked Browne what he would do as student body president to alleviate the situation. "It's diffi-



Weakland 
continuedfrom page 1 
and then try to see them enacted in reality," said Weakland. 
Weakland explained what must be done globally and particularly domestically in order to attain even a portion of the proposals the bis­hops raised. "We must articulate the values we stand for, especially in economics. We must strive to shake the 'ugly American' label and ask ourselves just what are we about?" he said. 
"Let's face it Poverty is worse now than it was even I 0 years ago. When I first came to Milwaukee in 1977, the soup kitchens and shelters for the homeless were sufficient. Today we must open churches at night just to prevent people from having to stay outdoors in the cold. The trickle-down theory has worked but not all the boats have risen. 
"We must ask ourselves if our people are culturally prepared for leadership in a world economy," Weakland continued. "What are the responsibilities of economic actors working in some other culture in a foreign country? It will be difficult for these people to alter the course of an economy with interfering in the countries'governments." 
Weakland added, "I oidn't want to give you a resume of the whole document so I could help you read it later. This was only our first attempt. 

r We have three more tries to perfect 
r the letter. 
r 
"We have drawn criticism for the 

r 
letter being too long and too hard to read. On the other hand, economists want us to use more technical lan­guage. We don't want to have to publish a glossary with it yet we want the economists to be aware that we have done our homework. 

FAMOUS LAST WORDS FROM FRIENDS TO FRIENDS. 
"Are you OK to drive?" "Whats afew beers?" 
"Did yau have too much to drink?" "I'm perfectly fine." 
"Are ym~ in any shape to drive?" "I've lteverfelt better." 
"I think yau've had afew too many." "Yau kiddin, I can drive with my eyes closed." 
"You've had too much to drink, let me drive." 

Friday, February 8, 1985-page 6 
cult to accomodate everyone," Browne responded, adding he agreed with the proposal to put both semesters ofphilosophy into a single course, possibly in the freshman year. 
Healy mentioned his plans to put in a "dimly lit room with some tables" in LaFortune. Regarding ac­tual implementation of the idea, he said, "We'll have to go through a lot of work. Maybe one of the hall services will provide the food." He added, "We want to get away from special events" and have more per­manent places, using Blow-off for Awhile as an example of something that should be centralized. 
Cahill said she would like to see the faculty course evaluations con­tinued, although "students placed too much emphassis on the grade portion and perhaps that will be cut out." 
"Some people have claimed that we bishops have gone out of our bounds and have tried to incor­
I 
porate the Church into the state. However, religion is here to stay and 
l 

will continue to play a part in public 

discourse. Some prefer to call our society 'secular' but religion has a 
Candidates for Student Body President and Vice President debate last night. At left is the ticket of
voice in public dialogue because it 
joanne Cahill and Pat Browne and at right is the
affects the lives of people," said 
Tht: Ohscrvcr/C:hajlanya PanchaJ 
ticket of Duane Lawrence and Bill Healy. Story, page 1. 

~i~~~_()__i_Jl___t__________________fr_ma-y,-Fe-bru_~ s,_I98-5--p-~-e7 


Creative excuses will make us laugh at least 
An anonymous classified ran in the paper a besides, they will need it for next year's big few weeks ago: "Dear Father -----, Why didn't football game roadtrip ·Altoona!" you attend our banquet? ... Where you trying Now, If I saw that the students weren't to think ofsome excuse to keep us from going believing that excuse, I would immediately to the Mardi Gras too?" Surprise! Isn't it begin another. Ifl were to lie and say that I was amazing how things work out around here? "concerned" about the moral welfare of the After being denied a trip to Hawaii to perform student body, then perhaps another excuse in the Aloha Bowl, the marching band was might seem believable: "Since New Orleans is denied a free trip to the Mardi Gras parade in not one of the most morally conservative New Orleans. Unlike the Aloha Bowl decision cities, and since the role ofa Christian univer­which had a legitimate reason; money, the sity includes the proper training of its stu­Mardi Gras decision by the Office of Student dents ..." You get the idea. "All those evil and Affairs managed to offer only the worn-o:tlt immoral temptations! We couldn't let our 
good, moral students go to Sodom and Gomorrah." Doesn't that sound convincing?Andy Saal "If they are subjected to the immoral tempta­tions of Bourbon Street, they might break the greatest of the Notre Dame commandments·
guest column 
parietals!" 

University policies can be used as great excuse of academics. Such a trip would been excuses, if they are intrepreted creatively. So I an "intrusion into the academic schedule," would continue, "In keeping with the Univer­said a spokesman from the office. sity's alcohol policy, we have denied the 
Personally, I am kind of let down. Not so marching band permission to attend Mardi much because of the denial, but because of Gras. They might present a poor image of the the lack ofcreativity on the part of the admin­University if they are seen drinking in public. istration. At a top school like Notre Dame, one Even though the Louisiana drinking age is 18, might think up a better excuse than we ftgured that since the kids spend almost "academic interference." Lately, the adminis­nine months out the year in South Bend, we tration has been dropping to new depths of should enforce the Indiana drinking age. After vagueness and melancholy. At least they all, we wouldn't want them to form any bad didn't try to tell the band members they habits during their visit." And so, just as in the couldn't go because they would miss Ash police raids of off-campus parties last semes­Wednesday services. Well, I'm sure the ter, the long arm of the administration would thought crossed their mind. strike again. 
Now, if I were a spokesman for the adminis­See how much fun excuse making can be? tration, I would spend a large fraction of my I'm tired of overused reasons like "academic time dreaming up colorful yet believable interference". A spark of creativity never excuses for the decision makers. Take the harmed anyone. Such flair might even make Mardi Gras parade for instance. Had I been the some administrative decisions a little easier to spokesman, I would have offered any combi­accept. nation of the following excuses: I propose that a new office be set up in the 
"The band has already had its share of road administration. Unlike the offices of the trips this year," I would say with a grinning Registrar, Admissions and Financial Aid, the sneer, then I would talk about the universe's Office ofCreative Excuses would employonly funnest city, -Columbia, Missouri, where the a handful of people. Their sole occupation band visited. "And then," I would continue, would be to make up creative new reasons for "How could we overlook that overnight trip the actions ofthe administration. I think Notre to the nightlife capital of the state -In­Dame could really use this additional bureau­dianapolis!" Of course, I wouldn't mention cracy. For all the effort that students put into that the Hoosierdome people paid for the trip things around here, don't you think the ad­to the Purdue game out of their own funds. ministration could at least make people laugh See how easy it is to work in a bureaucracy? when they say "No."? "And, in conclusion, we ftgure that the band members should save their money. Most of AndyD. Saal is a sophomore in the College them still owe us tuition anyways. And ofScience atNotre Dame. 

Being brother's keeper a Christian complexity 
Being our brother's keeper is one ofChristi­roots level through charities and existing anity's oldest and greatest complexities. One church programs. wonders whether the collective Christian Greed and other social sins require a community is even remotely practicing its change of attitude, not a change of structure. ideals of social compassion. In many in­All the great religions have never advocated 
stances, America is a triumph of kitsch over massive government social intervention. substance, ofthe buck over prayer and a place Being our brother's keeper means offering vo­where cash precedes compassion. Have Chris-luntary contributions ofaid. Resorting only to 
government aid reflects the dismal view that 
man cannot change for the better and that 

J. C. Dettling only bureaucracies can help people. Unfortunately, some Christians cheer for social programs while they stand on the
guest column sidelines. Others simply belie their claims of 
being "good Christians" with their indif· 
ference. 

tians accommodated these attitudes to the ex­We are Christians ftrst, Catholics and 
tent that their religion mirrors a secular Protestants second. We must be our brother's 
society? keeper before we can consider dogmatic dif­
To be an authentic Christian is a radical po­ferences. Perhaps all denominations should 
sition in today's society. It entails much more convene and compose a relevant letter to 
than a weekly "lip service" attendance of Modern Man: How to be an authentic Chris­
Mass. Christianity is a way oflife. Beyond in­tian, the tremendous commitment that being 
terdenominational dogmatic squabbles lies an a Christian entails, and the role of a Christian 
essential message ofsocial compassion. in a world of secular humanists. This should 
Being our brother's keeper is distorted by be the Catholic Bishops' mbst pressing con­
Christians who want government to be the cern. 
sole eradicator of social injustice. Fiddling Few Christian leaders explicitly encourage 
with the economic structure ofour society is a more Christian capitalism. Few are challeng­
a means for the salvation of man, they think. ing society's emerging relativism. Few Chris­
Enlarging the sphere of social programs and tian politicians encourage individual virtue. 
stealing from the "naughty rich" will realize a More frequently church leaders should urge 
just society, they think. Advocating a legal sys­Christians to collectively experience poverty 
tem of progressive taxes, transfer payments, before they make their Sunday contributions. 
and so forth as advanced social reform is er­Instead, complacency, accommodation, and a 
roneous. misguided beliefin enlarged social structures 
The call for social justice in the Scriptures is are a common Christian response to the moral 
not the same as the justice of the social pro­and practical crises ofsociety. 
gram mentality, which espouses legalized With superficial Yuppie mania and a reced­
theft, a naive understanding of economics, ing idealism in America's social conscience, 
and a means which can only be ultimately en­students at Notre Dame will be faced with sig­
forced with a gun. Poverty and other social ills nificant moral choices in ll:he future. A narrow· 
could be eradicated if more Christians were minded quest for personal peace and 
authentic. Capitalism is sound; its participants affluence and describing oneself as a 
are not. "Christian" are contradictory. Who is failing? 
This is not a pleafor the abolition of all so­The religious establishment? Are we failing cial programs. But they should be scaled each other? If one answers "yes" to these down, because they are inefficient. Ma.ssive questions, then it is time to re-evaluate one's federal spending has failed to dramatically moral vision. reduce the number suffering from poverty. Enlarging social programs is n!Jt the most ef­]. C. Dettling is a junior in the Program of fective and noble response. Christians must Liberal Studies and a philosophy major at demonstrate their authenticity at the grass-Notre Dame. 

Editorial Board  Department Managers  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  (219) 239-5303  Ed1tor·in·Ch1ef.  . .. Bob Vonderheide  Business Manager. . .  . . Dave Taiclet  
Managing Editor .  . . Mark Worscheh  Controller .  . .Dave Stephenitch  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the  News Editor .  . .. Sarah Hamilton  Advertising Manager ....... Anne Culligan  
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily  News Editor ............ Dan McCullough  Circulation Manager.  . .. Jeff O'Neill  
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as  Saint Mary's Ed1tor ..... Anne Monastyrski  Systems Manager.  . Mark B. Johnson  
accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion  Sports Editor.  Michael Sullivan  Production Manager.  . . Chris Bowler  
of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column  Viewpoint Editor  ... Dave Grote  Project Manager  . Amy Stephan  
present the views ot their authors. Column space is available to all members of the  Features Editor .  . .. Mary Healy  
community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters.  Photo Editor. . . . . .  . ... , Pete Laches  Founded November 3, 1966  
is encouraged.  




"Millions Against MS" schedule 
"wewant our MTV!" 
The plea of the music-video starved college community may soon be satisfied ifa handful ofenthusiastic, hard­
working students have their way. 
Tomorrow afternoon marks the official start of the first annual "Millions against MS" student-organized fundraiser at Notre Dame. The campaign begins with a free-throw competition at halftime of the Syracuse baskethall game and will continue with a giant video party in the ACC arena tomorrow evening. 
The fundraiser, initiated by the National Multiple Sclerosis Society and supported by MTV Music Television, is an attempt to raise: money to finance the battle against multiple sclerosis, a debilitating disease ofthe nervous system. 
Notre Dame and 11 other midwestern colleges are competing to raise the largest amount ofper capita contributions before the March 31, 1985 contest deadline. The winner of the fundraising contest will receive a free concert sponsored by MTV. 
This year's 12-school contest is a pilot project for the proposed 1985-86 nationwide MS collegiate fund raiser which will include 150 to 200 colleges and universities. 
"MS is a young person's disease" 

The NMSS was formed to encourage research for a cure of the disease:. 
The society has many fundraisers, but none were aimed specifically at college students. According to Maggie Katz, a campaign district coordinator, "MS people looked at it and said, 'We want to get college students involved.'" 
Katz said the society sponsors a read-a­thon for school-age children and an Ugly Bartender Contest for "the 30-ish crowd". But, she added, there is "a feeling that college students are kids" and that they are consid­ered only for the contributions that they will make in the future. 
"But what about now?" Katz asks, "College students, when motivated, have an incredible capacity for change. This program offers a 
r chance to accomplish great things.'' 
r "MS is a young person's disease," said Katz. 
r It strikes people between the ages of 18 and 
r 34. "It is pertinent to college students-they 
~ arc going to run into people" who have the 
r 
disease. 
"This program says, 'It's a worthy cause,'" Katz continued. "Yes, we want money, but we give you something back, from leadership
~ experience toT-shirts. You are not working for us, hut with us. 1 am a consultant. Stu­dents are running this." 
Once the decision was made to target college students, the committee chose pilot r schools. Participating in the contest along r 
with Notre Dame are the universities of Michigan, Wisconsin, Iowa, Purdue,
~ Northwestern, Ohio State, Michigan State, Marquette, Central Michigan, Drake, and
~ 
Miami University ofOhio.
r 
The schools were chosen on the basis of

r 
their hi!UJ caliber of academics coupled with
r 
competitive athletic teams. The strength of
r 
the athletic competition will insure rivalry 
r 
between the schools. Katz stressed the contest was based on the t size ofcontributions per capita undergradu­r ate enrollment. "We purposely added some 
r variables to gauge and see how this works," she said. 
r 
"Notre Dame is on par with the Big 10. 

r 
There's a friendly rivalry. We're going to use
r 
that," Katz said. "But the only real competi­
r 
tion is us against MS.'' 
r 
"Howare we going to reach college studentsr' 

Music, the NMMS decided, is a good way to reach college students. Bob Pittman, president of MTV, is a mem­ber of the Board of Directors of the NMSS. Pittman has increasingly put his energies into the drive to beat MS. The results are 

Syracuse game 
7, 9 and 11 
Feb. 14 
Feb. 19 
7, 9 and 11 
Feb.20 
5-9:30 
Feb. 21 

Feb.22 Sophomore Class Monte Carlo/ Casablanca Night Feb. 27 -March 13 Festival of Health Phone-a-thon Saint Mary's students 




_ Not only will MTV broadcast a free concert 
from the winning school, but it is also spon­
soring the Rock-Look-Alike contest, a major 
fundraising event in the drive. 
The Rock-Alike contest, as it is called in 
short, will allow students to impersonate 
their favorite rock personalities on stage. 
The winner and first two runners-up of 
each campus contest will be transported to 
the MTV winners' concert on April27. There 
the campus winner will compete on stage 
against winners from other campuses. 
The grand-prize winner of the Rock-Alike 
contest will receive an internship with MTV 
this summer. 
MTV will also be providing promotional 
material to the campuses, including public 
service announcements. These one-minute 
messages will be used by cable companies in 
communities where the drive takes place. 
The MTV video party tape to be shown at 
the ACC video party is two to three hours 
long, and was produced by MTV solely for 
use in the drive. 
"lhe concert isn't pie in the sky." 
At Notre Dame, MS drive Chairwoman Aline Gioffre has been hard at work on "Millions Against MS" since last fall. 
Gioffre, a senior, is joined by Co-Chairman Vince Willis, a member of the Freshman Advisory Council, who will assume chair­manship offuture MS drives at Notre Dame. 
Gioffre and Willis emphasize that the fundraiser will succeed only with the support of the Notre Dame community. 
"We can set up the events," Gioffre said. "But the only way to win is with the support of the student body." 
Director ofStudent Activitiesjoni Neal, whose office is lending support with adminis­trative details, said the plans included "a collection ofactivities with small donations, a dollar here, a dollar there, to plug in some of the gaps of the social life here.'' 
Neal added, "We have a darn good chance ofwinning the thing. The concert isn't pie in the sky. It is a reality." 
Willis is also optimistic. He said, "When we win-we will win-for sure!" 

Free-throw Contest Video Dance Kickoff Party 
Movie: "On Golden Pond" 
Valentine's Day Cookie Sale distribution (Orders will be taken in the Dining Halls Feb. 7-10 
Movie: "Night Shift" 
Skating Party 
Junior Class Party Drink specials and door prizes 
"Raise money, have fun" Campus MS organizers are planning entertaining events to serve as alternatives to a sometimes dreary social life. MS workers also hope to raise the level ofpublic under­standing ofa disease that strikes people in the prime oflife. The fundraising aspect is important, but Notre Dame organizers wish to avoid the "pass the hat" syndrome they say plagues drives like the United Way. "We aren't for a handout," Willis is 

quick to point out. "People spend money anyway on entertainment. Spend money on our entertainment." 
The kickoff tomorrow is only a harbinger of things to come. 
A halftime free-throw contest is scheduled for the Syracuse game. Anyone attending the game is asked to purchase a S I raffle ticket. Ten winners will be drawn from the raffle, who will compete in the contest. Whoever throws the most successful free throws will win a pair of tickets to the NCAA basketball tournament. 
The video party in the ACC arena will be tomorrow ni t. Tickets, priced at S2, may 

Auditorium 
Engineering Auditorium 
United Skates of America 
Mr. D's Canning Factory 
(Location to be announced) 
be purchased in advance at the dining halls 
or at the door ofthe ACC. The price of the 
tickets includes a raffle chance to win a trip 
for two to Florida on the SAB Spring Break 
trip. 
University Food Service will serve refresh­
ments at the party at reduced prices. After 
the party, those with 21 IDs and a ticket stub 
may enjoy quarter beers at Senior Bar. 
In the weeks to come, there will be SAB­sponsored movies, a weeklong bike-a-thon, a skating party for high school students at USA Skates, a phone-a-thon, a Valentine's cookie sale, and several other events culminating with the Rock-Alike contest to be held the last week in March. 
All money raised will go toward the Notre 
Dame contribution in the "Millions Against 
MS" drive. 
Saint Mary's will run a concurrent fundrais­ing drive, and will contribute all proceeds to the Notre Dame campaign. Although Saint Mary's students are not counted in the per capita enrollment at Notre Dame, they will be entitled to any of the privileges ofa Notre Dame win. 
Publicity Director Nancy Domzalski says, "This is our best year to win. We are only competing with 11 schools and since we're smaller than most of them our chances are better to win. Our alumni and South Bend community contacts are strong." 
The "Millions Against MS" fundraiser is perhaps the most ambitious project under­taken by Notre Dame students this year. 
Gioffre said fundraising events need not be limited to entertainment activities and encourages inter-dorm competitions to raise money. 
"We have the support ofcampus groups and the administartion. With such backing, it is the duty of the student body to show we're worthy ofsuch support," she said. 
In Willis' words, "This is a campaign for the students, by the students with the support of the University. It is a chance to improve social life and at the same time help find a cure for MS." 
Students interested in working on the fundraiser should contact Aline Gioffre at 283-2179. 


Friday, February 8, 1985 -page 8 -9 
Stop burning rubber and I will stop smoking 
the real world would make pest Communists grab the bread sent to aldermen. Everyone has his or herRev. control easy. Ethopia. Nevertheless, Reagan will bad habits, ~:;orne hell or high water. Preachers on television warn us keep America great. A woman heard Games become more fun, so itRobert that the age ofanti-Christ is on Chicago radio pointed out, from seems, in direct proportion to how dawning. Chaos explodes around her reading ofAnn Landers, that the much they get on other people's
Griffin 
I
us. Three-fourths ofall adults lean President has put an end to the nerves. Letters to a Lonely God on librium to get them from break­sexual revolution. Some of the So, in God's happy land, we have fast to supper. The crime rate is up states have passed seat belt laws. to learn tolerance ofa world never n the best ofall possible worlds, Generous people should be will­in every city as faceless folks turn to Mothers have made it clear that entirely free of trouble, ifwe wish each ofus would be born, flourish ing to walk more and reduce the terrorism as a way ofresolving their they are against drunken driving. to stay off the valium. Out of and die with a minimum offuss, pollution. Yet, when the driveway identity crisis; their need to be I wish they would go a step fur­respect for the freedom ofothers, ready to disappear without a trace, in front of my hall is crowded with noticed has turned into a sickness. ther and help us get rid ofthe we make tradeoffs. I will not cloud like a bubble in the ocean, rather vehicles not belonging there, I try Embassies are blown up; hostages automobiles which are ruining so the world with cigarette smoke, if than give anybody else a second of to be patient with the idea this are seized; bombs are exploded; much ofthe rural beauty. In a world you promise to stay off the high­trouble. space is a convenience to workers popes and presidents get wounded. fallen from grace, you settle for as ways in the car you bought for 
In Utopia, all ofus would sin­wanting their wheels close by on The seats ofempire have become rimch as you can get. joyrides. I will not throw butts on cerely add the apology "Excuse me cold nights. as violent with shootouts as the old In the tomorrowland ofour the park grass, ifyou make an effort for living," to the practice ofthe I hate noise pollution: stereos west was at the time ofWyatt Earp. dreams, where all the laws are to flush after using a public Golden Rule. Small children travel­blasting out ofdorm windows, the Some of the poor, instead ofwaiting enforced, crime is evenly punished restroom. ing on planes would never cry. raucuous tables in the Huddle to see God, are becoming distinctly and the class struggle has subsided, Pedestrians would never litter. where the extroverts are showing surly. The meek, instead ofkeeping we're going to be left with the same Every man to his own poison, the Minority kids would restrain them­off, the sound of machinery grind­their shirts on until they inherit the flawed human nature. The black old adage says. Some poison is selves from marking up the subway ing its gears near the oak trees earth, have emerged as teenagers from Harlem will con­labelled by the surgeon general as trains with graffiti. Old people where I'm trying to talk to the demonstrators with very loud tinue to tote their ghetto-blasting, hazardous to health. There are would die before they get sick squirrels. mouths. It looks as though we have trunk-size radios. Space dwellers other kinds ofindulgence the sur­enough to need nursing home care. God gave us feet, I suppose, so the worst, instead ofthe best, ofall gliding through the park on roller geon general should take a look at, The poor would learn either to eat that we can walk away from an­possible worlds. skates with their eyes closed will including tacos. Tacos, though the grass, or hide their meatless bones noyances. He gave us windows to With the help ofthe Lord and a still collide with old ladies using smell ofthem makes me sick to my from politicians looking for issues shut, doors to close, and ear plugs few policemen, we will manage to canes. stomach, are not a hanging offense. with which to attack the system. to be stuck in as a defense against survive with dignity and style. Theater goers will always throw 
The world we have to adjust to the vibrations ofrock'n'roll. A Christians with faith in civilized the debris from their snacks under In a civilization where tolerance tends to be selfish. I hate it when friend of mine, here to see his son, institutions believe that the law will the seats, even in the kingdom of and trade offs are in order, unless I'm crowded off the sidewalks by was awakened in the middle ofthe come to their aid. Bernhard Goetz God. Guys on busses on their way we wish to constrain each other golfcarts. I hate cars whizzing past night by a drunken student yelling as their folk hero is living proofof to dates will make your eyes water with straitjackets, I say let him who delivering pizza at 2 a.m. I hate cars obscenities at the guests in the the benefits of the right to bear as you sniff their overuse of has never enjoyed junk food be the on campus at any time, poisoning Morris Inn. My friend had the op­arms. deodorants until the end oftime. first to cast stones at the Taco Bell. the air with fumes which turn the tion ofgetting his room changed, or The Catholic Bishops with their Snowballs and frisbees, hurled from It is not an abortion clinic, though I green trees brown and stunt the requesting the manager to call the pastoral letters are idealistic: every­the hands ofchild ren, are an ever­don't approve ofour importing growth of the grass. sheriff. Nobody ever promised that one knows, a Lady told me, that the lasting threat to the decorum of Montezuma's revenge. 

·esl ~•--+------~-------~------~-------~--~~~gr~ro~~~~d~-~
Snite Museum. The exhibition presents

Movl
L-------~EEIIIIz•i~·~~~~~~~-•~~~~~-A~·~~~~~~~·~P~~~~b~R~~w~~~~~~m~~~~ 
images made, dating from a time when 

most people think color photography did 
not exist. In a nostalgic, almost impres­
sionistic fashion, they capture a world 
now lost. 
Gallery hours at the Snite are 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Tuesday through Friday, 1 p.m. to 4 
p.m. 
Saturday thru Sunday, and 4 p.m. to 8 

p.m. 
Thursday evenings. 


The Saint Mary's Art Department ....,......p~--o.,.......,...,......,.,....r'...,.~.,,......,...,...,,..~.,...,.,..,.,...~--•-.....,.....,.,L,....,.--.1~1 Faculty Exhibition continues this ........_....lillll................._......lllllllll...................lllllllll.....lllli..lilllj..illll•~l weekend at the Moreau Galleries at Saint 

•Ifyou're in the mood for a little spine­tingling entertainment, you're in luck. "Poltergeist" will be tonight's feature at the Engineering Auditorium. This Steven Spielburg ghost story depicts a picture­perfect middle-class family that is thrust · into a nightmarish world ofstark terror by a violent, volatile phenomenon. Showings will be at 7, 9:15, and 11:30 and admission will be Sl.50. 

Joan Crawford in "Mildred Pierce" 
•The final presentation in the Saint Mary's Film Festival "Oldies Week" will be be at 7 and 9:30p.m. in Carroll Hall at Saint Mary's. Admission will be S1. 
•Saturday will be your chance to promote a worthy cause and enjoy one of Dusdn Hoffman's best performances at the same time. "Tootsie" will be pre­sented as a Stop M.S. movie in the Engi­neering Auditorium.Jessica Lange and Bill Murray co-star with Hoffman in this story ofan unemployed actor who reme­dies his predicament by becoming an employedactress. Showings will be at 7, 9:15, and 11:30. 
"Tootsie" will also be presented on Sunday by the SABat 2, 7, and 9:15p.m. Admission to all showings will be $1.50. 
•Tonight, the Friday Night Film Series will present the 1983 Spanish film "Erendira". This will please those ofyou who enjoyed "Mommy Dearest" as it tells the story ofa child forced into prostitu­tion by her heartless grandmother. Such is Erendira's charm that she carries a 20th­century version ofcivilization wherever she goes. Showings are at 7:30 and 9:30 tonight in the Annenburg Auditorium. Tickets are S2.50. 
Misc. 
c 

1-...--•Mar-d.iGras-action----&.contin--uesSa-.-turday night as an airband and talent contest will 
•The 
International Student Organi· zation will present this evening a festival of"comedy, song and dance from around the world." The event provides interna­tional students the opportunity to share a slice oftheir culture with American students. The show begins at 7:30 in Washington Hall. Tickets will be available after 10 a.m. from the Washington Hall ticket office. 

•Professional 
mime Keith Berger will perform this weekend in O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's. Tickets are S2 for students and S4 for general admission. 




Music 
•RECITAL. The Notre Dame Music Department will present Terry Timmer­mann in a graduate cello recital tomorrow at 3 p.m. in the Annenburg Auditorium of the Snite Museum. All are invited to attend. 
I Art ~Q~ 
~ 


Mary's. Gallery hours are Monday to Friday from 9:30 to noon and 1 to 3 p.m., and Sunday from 1 to 3 p.m. 




Dance~ 
•As part of the Mardi Gras celebration this weekend, there will be a dance tonight in Stepan Center. The event will feature the band Big Twist and Mellow Fellows, a group from Chicago, from 6 to 
9. Performing from 9 to 1 will be the band The Danger Brothers from Columbus, Ohio. Admission to the dance is $2 and tickets will be available at the door. Each ticket holder will be eligible for a drawing at midnight that will send two lucky people to New Orleans. 
•D.}.s Pat Murphy and Don Seymour of Keenan Revue Party fame are providing more hits tonight at a dance in Chautau­qua. listen and dance from 9 to 2 for an admission price of S1. 
Mass 
Mass The celebrants for Mass at Sacred Heart 
the 1945 Oscar Award Winner, "Mildred be held in the South Dining Hall. There is Church this weekend will be: Pierce".Joan Crawford stars in this story still time to sign up and it may prove to be Father Robert Griffin at 5:15p.m. ofa determined young woman's rise from profitable -first prize will be 100 dollars! (Saturday night vigil). waitress to restauranteer. Her sole motiva­(Call Rob at 283-2021 if you're inter­Father George Wiskirchen at 9 a.m. tion in life becomes the happiness ofher ested) The excitement begins at 9 and The traveling exhibit "Autochromes:. Father Niels Rasmussen at l 0:30. decadent, spoiled daughter. Showings will admission will be Sl.50. Color Photography Comes ofAge" Father Mark Poorman at 12:1 5. 

The Observer 

through friday. The Obsen•et· Saint Mary's office. lot·at.:d on th.: third floor of Haggar College Center. an·i.-pts dassifkds from 12:_~0 p.m. until .~p.m ...\ton­day though Friday. Ikadlin.: for nt·xt-day t·la"ifkds is -~ p.m. All da"ifkds must ht· pr.:paid. dth~:r in pt·rson or hy mail. Charg<: is I 0 t-ents per fi\'e chara<-­


Classifieds 
ters er dav. 
NEED CiDNCEPTS OF MODERN SCI­Choan Conley is celebrating the BEST LET US HAVE IT!t Jiml. Attn: All ND/SMC Students 
ENCE TEXT CARL SAGAN 2066 birthday or l)le BEST semester of her You know, you have the most gorgeous DAYTONA!II entire lite on Sunday!! Reach out and MORE OBSERVER SURVEYS ARE eyes! for $94 ???? touch her on this special occasion, AVAILABLE IN THE OBUD OFFICE ON EandM Call: 239-5136 OR 
NOTICES 
FOR A GIFT THAT IS UNIQUE, SEND A 


BEFORE she touches you' Feliz 2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE! Stop by: 1.5 LaFortune BELLY GRAM TO YOUR SHIEK! 272­
cumpleanos Choan! Bunker Hill Boys from Flanner Fourth: So (Senior Class Office) 1858 
FOR SALE 

IT AIN'T TOO LATEl you're 2t ... BFD. So can we borrow your Mon-Frl 6 to 9 PM 
NEED RIDERS TO ILLINOIS STATE I D's sometime. TYPING CAll CHRIS 234-8!1117 
UNIVERSITY thla w-end. Wlff ahara FRODOlfVESl Love Dickey and the Barnacles DENON DIGITAL STEREO RECIEVER. car rentalexpen-. LNve Friday 6:45 
TYPING AVAILABLE Why pay more?
LIKE NEW, 33 WATIS PER CHANNEL. p.m. Return Sunday 4:00 p.m. CALL STOP THE BUS 
287-4082 We do it better and we do It cheaper!!
MUST SELL, CALL MIKE AT 283-3587. JOHN AT 4013. kevin, what's all this about you being a The mad masher has turned 19. 
Come party with ua In DAYTONAIHappy Birthday Ms Colgateyellow-belly now? 
lor Spring Break '85
Is your Idea of fun wading through 3 teet 

TYPING 
$94 5/room, $104 4/room if you drive 
drifts of snow in sub-zero weather? Well, Cerebus for Dictator! 
JACKIE BOGGS Happy 19th Martha $184 5/room, $194 4/room if we drive
then you should stay at NO. If not, go toFT 

684-8793 Love Peter Jennings Call239-5136 or slop by 1.5 LaFortune 
TICKETS 

LAUDERDALE OR DAYTONA BEACH Nurk Lurks in Doorways 
Mon-Fri 61o 9 PM
with the STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD! 

BOBDIRKSON Open to ALL ND/SMC students!
For SUN & FUN, DAY BOAT EXCUR­

PRQ-TYPE Cornputenzed typing service Congrals on your inlerviewl When are we
BIG BUCKS need 4 SYRACUSE stud lix SIONS & BASEBALL, ST PAT'S DAY 
277-5833 going to NY? Thank God I'm a SMC buSI­
call Mark x 1204 PARTIES & POOL SIDE CELEBRA­LOOK OUT NOTRE DAME THE 
ness major and can support us. South Bend for Spnng Break??
TIONS, QUALITY & PRICE, go with SAB. BUDAPTS ARE HERE! nd will never be
WOROPROCESSING AND TYPING Love, Gtrffnend Wouldn't you rather be In DAYTONA?
NEED 3 TIX FOR SYRACUSE GAME. lnlormallonal meetings on Thursday, the same 
272-8827 $94 5/rm, $104 4/rm if you dnve
CALL 239-7204 OR 233-3412. Feb. 7 and Thursday, Feb 14 al7pm in the You may know how to use a fOIL But it is $184 5/rm, $194 4/rm if we dnveLittle Theater altho La Fortune. 
Typing/Word Process1ng-Term Papers, obvious you don't know how to use the Call 239-5136 or slop by 1.5 LaFortune
Aplant made some ethanol junk, 

HELP! Need Syracuse lix -GA or stu­
buSiness letters. etc. We will edit. Call dent Call 1570. P.J. from Maynooth, We would love to gel and South Bend it really made stunk. phone. You lose b1g. Mon-Fri6to9PM 
Andree Pnce, 283-3880 Open lo all ND/SMC Students!
in touch with you! Marci and Julie SMC Need two Syracuse tickets. Call Dan at 5111 
Butsome students in class 
NEED TYPING. CALL DOLORES 277­

BLUE EYED BLONDE WITH 6045. PICKUP AND DELIVERY. 2275 Dis#lled that · gas, FUN-LOVING WALSH WOMEN need
WESTPOINT SHIRT: WHO WANT TO 
And now they're all totally drunk. KNOW? ride to NAPERVILLE or surrounding RESUMES TYPESET ARLENE 239-Jim Glbbona says: Orangemen will kill Western Chicago suburb, the weekend or WANTED: 1 GA OR STUD TICKET FOR 
THE SYRACUSE GAME. BIG BUCKS!!!!! 
the Irish. Big Eaat rules. Jan.15-16. Will share costs. Pleese call
6348 or 232-9061 . CALL CHESTER AT 2343 OR 2347. Erotica, haven't heard from you in such a Luke, Kommen Sle uber dunkelen zarfing long time. Do I have to wail until 
Cindy at 2598 or Miriam at4174. START YOUR CAREER NOW Seltel Days lnnV?
Usa-tender moments, thougMul words, need2Syracuselix-ca11Steph-3738 warm feelings. You are my dreams come Cornpantes' markenng on true. "You mean more to me than words 
Earn money and work on Fortune 500 SAY IT WITH FLOWERS: Look for the 

programs P.W. Puckerbutt-135by March or the car campus. P1111-time (llex1ble) hours each Need SYRACUSE Tix? I GOT 'EM!(6) ismine.AMF
can ever say.... Thanks lor all the happi­RACE THOMAN! VOTE RACE FOR carnation sales in the South Dming Hall 
Call 1-BOQ-O.C. SENATOR. a chance a flower to your Valentine. 
week. We g1ve references. Call FRANKIE anytime al239-5627. ness! love,Phil lor to send 
243-8679. MILWAUKEE NEED 1 STUD OR GA FOR SYRACUSE 
BORN TO SWING FROM CHAN­REMEMBER THE KEENAN REVUE

HAVE ROOM FOR 2-3 RIDERS IN MY CALL JOANNE 2800 
DEUERSI!I DON SEYMOUR AND PAT PARTY? THE ONLY DJS THAT MAT­BUZZ CLUB BUZZ CLUB BUZZ CLUB
CAR LEAVING THIS WEEKEND CALL 
MURPHY THEONLYDJS THAT MAT­TEAl (ALIAS PAT MURPHY AND DON CAMPUS VIEW CAMPUS VIEW 
DAVE AT 2000 NEED 1 Syra~~tix~~tuorGA. Call1710 TER! WHAT MORE CAN YOU ASK SEYMOUR) WILL BE AT CHATAQUA, 
CAMPUS VIEW ... THE LEGACY LIVES 
FOR? HIRE THE ONLY DJS THAT MAT­THIS FRIDAY FEBRUARY 8 AT 9PM ON. TER! FOR YOUR NEXT PARTY OR SYR DJtNG A DANCE SPONSORED BY THE BIG BUCKS lor 1 STU. or GA CALL DON AT35730RPAT AT33180R Q. What do you call an overweight barbar­NOTRE DAME OJ SOCIETY. COME KAMPUS KRUSADE lor the KWISATZ LOST: GREEN SWEATEA IN CUSHING, SYRACUSE ticket. Call Mark 232-5645 3317. THANK YOU ian? ONE, COME ALL TO THE ONLY DANCE 
LOST/FOUND 
HADERACH 

THAT MATIERS! ADMISSION: $1
ROOM 208 IF FOUND, CALL JOHN AT A. Attila the Ton 
2196 NO QUESTIONS ASKED Oh Boy!! Do I need a Syracuse ti1cket but DAVID RIVERS FOR UMOC bad!! My long lost brother who ran off and 
CAMPUS CRUSADE lor CHRONOS 
LOST: a gold Cihzen watch on Sunday joined the Air Force is coming to visit me BO OBERG FAN CLUB LONG AWAITED "Vewy well den, We shall weweese Bwian Riders needed to Michigan Slate the Jan. 27, somewhere between Zahm and here at N.D.. If you can help me make my AND NOW FINALLY ON CAMPUS LOOK !!" 
weekend of Feb. 8. Call1235 if interested. CAMPUS CRUSADE lor QUASIMOTO
the North Oin1ng HalL II found, please call reumon a happy one call Bob at 2473 FOR INFORMATION AND SIGN-UPS IN Torn at 1244 pleaso. (Stud. or G.A.) LAFORTUNE ORGANIZATION PREZ; STEVE NANTZ IS A FOREIGN SERVICE MIKE VARLOTIA GOD MARDI GRAS FASTELAVNSFEST FAS-
Lost: A beige woof hat With brown stnpes. I desperately need a Marquette lie lor a Lost somet1me Saturday night. If found, friend coming up lor the game. Please call YO KRISTINE THANX FOR RETURN­STEVE NANTZ IS THE AFRICAN KING. 
MARDI GRAS TELAVNSFESTFASTELAVNSFEST MARDI GRAS
1833! ING THE TV NO NEED TO THANK ME YOU HAVE DONE MORE THAN STEVE NANTZ IS BUCK CHIP. 
please call Enc at 283-4352. 

MARDI GRAS NEED 2 GA'S FOR SYRACUSE-NO ENOUGH P.S. I HAVE A STEREO MARDI GRAS SHOW THAT YOU CARE ENOUGH TOLOST PACKET OF STUDENT BB TICK­
SEND THE VERY BESLSEND
BASKETBALL GAME TOMORROW. MAYBE NEXT YEAR? ' Jean VALENTINE COOKIES TO BENEFIT MS ETS. SECTION 103 REWARD CALL 
PLEASE CALL SHIRLEY AT 23S..S303. the girl on the St. Ed's/B-P ski trip last Talent Contest and Airband Contest LEIGHANN SMC 4451 
...........,... Friday LOST-One blue left hand glove, lost at IF YOU GOT IT, I NEED IT !I I NEED ,I had a great lime, but I can't lind your
DEBBIE, I want you to know I had run in $100 First Prize the snow; Bull gotta go, Multiple 0! Love, Saturday 8 P.M. South Dining Hall JULIE BAER. Sorry about that personal
FOUR (4) GA'S FOR THE BYU GAME. IF number. Would like to see you again. Pal CHUCK Come cheer on your lavontes, YOU last week. The real ratio lor you know who the ACC on Jan 20 If found please call 
f 
YOU CAN HELP THIS DAMSEL IN (1726) DISTRESS PLEASE CALL RAMONA AT Mark at 2450. 
decide the winners is one to one, not four to one. Bes1des. it's 3714. Hey Cutie-I'm so excited!!! Thanx for
Clean up your room. Princess' $1.50 allhe door none or my business. 
LOST: N D. RUGBY LETIER JACKET IS STILL AT LARGE. REWARD FOR ANY 

being patient Too bad you were sleepingTIM SWARTZ! See you later, THIS AD'S 
and couldn't go to the game last week. Coni--Happy ann1versary Hope you two FOR YOU1 sweetie! FRIDAY!
INFORMATION LEADING TO THE AR­

HAPPY Give II up Miss September-HE'S MINE! I enjoy many more happy times together. Love, your S.S.
REST AND CONVICTION OF ITS CAP­

'• love you! -Jack P.S. Forget the formal-he Win a trip to the Real MARDI GRAS Two years is a long time. 277-7561 IF YOU HAVE ANY KNOWL­
TORS. PLEASE CALL J.R. REID AT 
PERSONALS 

t 
already did! Free raffle ticket with admiss1on to the BRUCE TURNER 

Dance-A-Thon HAPPY BIRTHDAY ANDI!
EDGE OF ITS WHEREABOUTS. 

Dear Mr. Nice Guy, Your days are num­This Fnday at Stepan Center Thanka lor m.oklng our nlghta go Hey BRUCE (and everybody else)!
PREGNANT? NEED HELP? CALL 234-bered. Holding a bear hostage is a serious 6P.M.Io6A.M. quickly. PARTY IN KEENAN SATURDAY NIGHT 0363. 24 hour hotline/lree pregnancy test felony and we plan to carry the law out to PARTY ALL NIGHT LONG FOUND EARRINGS at KEENAN REVUE This is my FINAL announcement because love, your typ-nlng lrlenda. tomorrow; I mean TOMORROW, SAT­
available. WOMEN'S CARE CENTER its fullest. And as for shaving Snoz's hair, URDAY, FEBRUARY NINTH, will be THEIf they're yours contact Father Dave 1n 
why don't you try cutting your own? Noth­OAR HOUSE: COlD BEER & LIQUOR, BIRTHDAY PARTY. You all know what ing 'personal. Love and kisses. Miss Come see one or Columbus· best bands: LARRY, You know you like II when you're LOST: DARK BLUE CARRY OUT 'TIL: 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., I'm talking about by now. Come on down Morality The Danger Brothers name's in the paper. So enjoy II while you 
AM 120 Keenan WOOL BERET, 

lo Campus View 203 at 9:30 pm and wit­cangelil! ME
Performing at the Mardi Gras Dance-A­ness THE MAN in incomparable perlor­
Span1sh lrlSCrlphon. Have pity--was my ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOliDAY INN. 
Kev-Don't flatter yourself. It wasn't that Thonfrom9P.M.-1 A.M mances or humiliation. shame, andGrandfather's. Anna 277-4745. 
good. Love, Patti ATTENTION embarassmenl! It's Turner at his very OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS
Lost: Organ1zat1on Theory and 0981gn by BEST TIME-BEST VALUE: WHERE: 
WORST!!! (Don't lorgetlhal amaretto ... ) VOTE
HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY, TIM IN CAM­JIM HAGAN 
Richard Daft at South Dining Hall Monday DAYTONA BEACH!! WHEN: SPRING 
at lunch. Please call Mike at 1166. BREAK '85. WHO: ALL ND/SMC STU­Let me be your modern lentaay. PUSVIEW, FROM YOUR PROUD 
WARNING: The Surgeon General has 

FATHER IN PASADENA O.C. SENATOR determmed (assuming you are a woman) I WILL WORK FOR: BETIER PARKING DENTS. CALL 239-5136 OR STOP BY 
LOST: A p&lr ot black Ars women's size SENIOR CLASS OFFICE, 1.5 JIBBY BUTIERFIELD HAPPY 19TH 
that attendance to the Turner Birthday MORE BUS RUNS
small gloves in rm. 208 O'Shag. I know LAFORTUNE, MON-FRI, 6-9pm. 
Bash WILL be hazardous to your chastity! CHEAPER MEAL PLANS
THE EGO ROLL EXPRESS (This is NO joke, ladies... ) 
somebody has them. If found, please call ATIENTION ALL OFF-CAMPUSITES: 
Stephanie at 3738. or return them to 244 OUR MASS IS SCHEDULED FOR SUN., Badin. Thanks. OH, VALENTINE! FEB.t7 AT CAMPUS VIEW, "Homemade Egg Rolls" 
BRUCE TURNER ... this is getting expen­OFF CAMPUS FORMAL!!!!' Friday night 
OPEN Weekends sive, buddy .. 
BLDG.54655, APT.20~. COME AND 
LOST: 6 keys on a pl81n round keychain; IIMt the ruah....come up to The BRING YOUR HOUSEMATES! FOR Friday------11-2am atlhe Americana Tickets availeble at Stu­dent Record Store BE THERE!!!!!!
one dorm key, one mail key. one house Obaervllt' and place your Valentine'• INFO. CALL RACE THOMAN AT 272-Saturday----11-2am 
To the guy who yesterday tried to pass

key, one bike key and two car keys. Mark Day peraon.al thla WMk. We've HI 0734. Sundey------9-12am 
himself off as me. KNOCK IT OFF,WILL

at 1728. eelde • apeclal category juat lor you to Located Lewis Hall Basement 
YAI!I Your mability to spell or to come up

get r•l gooey with your h•rtthrob. TIRED OF SPENDING WEEKENDS ON 
with good idees makes me look 

LOST; pair of black gloves on Sunday The apeclal day Ia Thuradlly, Feb. 14, CAMPUS DOING NOTHING BUT The only D.J. that maffers 
bad.THERE IS ONLY ONE MR GOOD­

evening In Rock. They are gifts from but avoid long lineaand comeIn today. STUDING? HOW ABOUT AN OFF "Cathleen w/ a C 
WENCH, ACCEPT NO SUB­

FORGET O'Bryan w/ Y"
somebody very dear. Please call1167 or CAMPUS OUT OF CONTROL (OC) FLORIDAII SKI ASPEN, 
STITUTES!!!! 

PARTY TONIGHT? INTERESTED COLORADO THIS SPRING BREAK. Listen to her 9 -11 pm Sunday 
FEMALES CALL 283-1232 NOW! AND GET A TAN TOO. $3971NCLUDES WVFI64am MR. GOODWENCH live them in Rock 
LOST:MEN'S NO CLASS RING. KMS IN­Students of the female persuasion: TRANSPORTATION, 7 NIGHTS Lei's gel HAMBURGER PACKED' SCRIBED ON INSIDE. IF FOUND Beware! Zahm Hall's Hidden Hearts 
LODGING, AND A 6 DAY LIFT PASS TO YO ADRIAN! Or anyone else at the party 
PLEASE CALL 3204. REWARD. Dance Is corning up on Feb. 9. Be ready to ALL FOUR OF ASPEN'S MOUNTAINS. PAULA PIMENTA HAPPY 21 I JIM
IF YOU GOT IT, I NEED IT I! I NEED 4 hear from your favorite Zahmbie lor the GA'S FOR THE BYU GAME. IF YOU IF INTERESTED CALL 3630 OR 3573. SENT THE 'KAZEE S SO LET'S 001
In 525 Grace on 1/26, Did you lake our 
boxing gtove? Please return 11. Thank you.

FOUND Two reels of maggnetlc record­b1g ccetume dance. CAN HELP THIS DAMSEL IN DISTRESS LUV YA CHRISTINA ing tape. Bah1nd the band annex building. PLEASE CALL RAMONA AT 3714. II they belong to you, claim them at The LOST 
Ancient Chlneee Proverb uy : MR.D's Fri. nile. Drink specials, 
SEE CHILE FREE It Is okay to wade the Red River dancing, to-3.
Observer office. Third lloor La Fortune. One ~lr of eyegle­OBSERVER PHOTO MEETING: This 
But, don 'I drink from it ..
Somewhera In North Quad-· SUNDAY
Sunday at 6:30 p.m. in the Observer of­
···················• ························•··

calfW.R. 1505 7-8:30pm
LOST; Sal of keys on blue braided fice. That means you Lev Chapelsky, Paul 
P.O.Box 962,you're welcome. Used. 
Center lor Social Concerns 

rope key chain. Saint Mary's 10 Kramer, Carol Gales, Hannes Hacker, Vic It's SYR lime again and most blll1endersattached. Please call3811 If found. Guarino, Mary Flynn, Chaitanya Panchal. 
VIOLENT FEMMES ROAD TRIP: 

put things on ice. But will history repeal departure will be Sunday 5:30 from the
HAPPY BIRTHDAY DIANE E. YODER!! 
Phil Deeter, and Nick Griffin. Be there Remember, you'ra not getting Older, 
itseff, or is a HOTIUB a new necessity? Ll~ clrcle. be on time. 
you'ra getting batter! (Bulla that poa­
CHILEyCHILEyCHILE -alble?) Ofve Diane a call at 30118 and 
................................................................ 

WHAT DO AEROSMITH AND J. GEILS FREE wlah hill' a happy 22ndl 
Happy Birthday to You Happy Birthday to 

HAVE IN COMMON? BOSTON CLUB and
You Happy Birthday dear Fish America

FOR RENT Naeste uge kommer fastelavnsfesten. 
································································ Happy Birthday to You Kinko loves you GET GATHERING AT SODOM AND IN COLOR 
PERSONAL ARE OK....BUT YOU CAN'T GOMORAHA, SATURDAY NIGHT 8:00 SUNDAY
and so do Lieutenant Fish,Scarfish.and Fastetavnsfesl is coming next week.......
PUT PICTURES IN THEM THE 
1406 SOUTH BEND AVE 7-8:30pmLord Fish 
Two students to share apt stove and OBSERVER NOW HAS A SPECIAL Center lor Social Concerns
relngerator, good ne1ghbor hood 288-RATE FOR BIRTHDAY DISPLAY AD 
Class or '88 0955/277-3604 WE ACCEPT ANYTHING SHORT OF 
IRISH GARDENS IRISH GARDENS Fame and Fortune NUDIES CALL 239-5303 FOR DETAILS LAWS OF MR. GOODWENCH
IRISH GARDENS Your Valentine's Day (and $50, too!) 
Efficiency apt. pnvate entrance, good THE LOOKS OF A GIRL ARE DIR­
Heedquarters--Mosl reasoneble prices in Cenbeyoursneighborhood, utilities paid 288-Valentine Glamour Posters. Give that CHILE RECTLY PROPORTIONAL TO
South Band. Place orders now until Tues.. Just enter the contest to select a logo to Feb. 12. ORDER NOW IRISH GARDENS be used on the Class of 1988's official t­
0955/277-3604 special guy h1s own poster of you lor WERE SHE STUDIES: Valentine's Day. Black and while or color. STATE COLLEGES.... 9 
CHILE

IRISH GARDENS IRISH GARDENS shirt. Your design could net you $50, and would be seen on all 88'ers chests. Sub­
Semi-fumshed horne. good neighbor­Posters by nationally published model PRIVATE COLLEGES...7.5 CHILE
hood 2~3684/288-0955. photographer, Joe R1nger. 287-0813. NOTRE DAME,IN......6
Do NO and SMC girls stuff?? mit a design to you FAC rep on typing 
Find our Friday afternoon !rom 4:30-7:30 paper by February 11th. 
SUNDAY
in the Faculty Dining Room in SOH Be 
7-8:30 
K811andPeg Center lor Social Concerns 

!!!! OPPORTUNITY !!!! PUBLICITY Co­prepered to gel your hands in on the ac­Sr. Mary Megan Kerrigan BVM: Greg and I are cuneus about our actual
WANTED CHAIRPERSONS FOR THE UPCOM­tion' We wish you a blessed birthday! We lui ING, CAMPUS-WIDE EVENT NOTRE you Smog. Your bestesl friends: 
partidpaHon in military maneuvers this 
evening -should we brush up on foxhole
DAME-ST. MARY'S CHARITY BALL: A IT IS NOT TOO LATE TO RETURN Chris, Mo, Folic, Cheri, Show. 
condUct??? Looking lorwerd to tonight ... 
FAMILY RESPONSE TO THE CRISIS IN YOUR OBSERVER SURVEYIt Happy Birthday Smog, the famous LIME 
Rider needed to ROCHESTER. N.Y. lt'a good to be the King!If -Szan area. LMving Wed 2/13, returning Sun. ESTED FELLOW STUDENTS BOX OR BRING IT TO THE OBSERVER 
ETHIOPIA ARE LOOKING FOR INTER­DROP IT IN ANY ON-CAMPUS MAIL­TICKLER! 
EAGER Love, your roommates. 2117. c.ll Ed at 272-0828. TO LEND A HELPING HAND! IF YOU OFFICES ON 3RD FLOOR HAVE ANY TIME, TALENT OR IOEAS LAFORTUNE. Chris DlDooato: Yo-A, 
MINNESOTA CLUB PAATY!If 
Rider'l needed to Mlchtg.n State the TO DONATE, OR ANYTHING ELSE (I!) Happy Birthday to the girl who works too Welcome back to N.D. Hope the trip from at 54631 Cempus Vi-Apartment 302 weekendo1Feb.8. c.Mt235Hilllerated. CONTACT LINDA AT 277-8856 OR LET US HAVE IT!t hard-get some Bleep Cincinnati waa O.K. Have a QfNI Ume Saturday Night from 6nm-1Qpm LESLIE AT 287-1505 (AFTER 4:00). Love, the other convicts of 396 white you're here and lake cared Flol 

The Observer Friday, February 8, 1985 -page 11 
FOR RENT 
furnished. 3 bedroom home washer & dryer close to campus 
4 Roommates Needed 
Only $125.00 each 
call287-0148for apt. 
·····················~·· 
Lipton tournament 

Lendl and Navratilova stay alive 
Associated Press 

DELRAY BEACH, Fla. -The No. 1 seed~, Ivan Lendl of Czechoslovakia and Martina Navratilova, continued on the express tracks yesterday, while Kim Shaefer derailed the wo­men's fourth seed, Manuela Maleeva, in the second round of the $1.8 mil­lion Lipton International Players Championships tennis tournament. 
Lend! was forced into a first-set tiebreaker before he eliminated John Sadri, 7-6, 6-0, on the windy, sun-swept stadium court, while Nav­ratilova ripped off the first nine games enroute to a 6-0, 6-3 victory over Robin White. 
Shaefer, a 27-year-old right­hander who posted her biggest career victory in 1983 when she won the U.S. women's Indoors, ousted the 17-year-old Bulgarian, one of the upcoming stars in wo­men's tennis, 6-4, 2-6, 6-4. 
Maleeva, who upset Chris Evert Lloyd to capture the 1984 Italian Open and also took the U.S. Clay Courts and Swiss Open titles last year, followed her younger sister, Katerina, out of this inaugural two­week event. Katerina Maleeva, 1 5, lost in the first round. 
In other night matches, No. 6 Johan Kriek downed India's Vijay Amritraj 6-4, 6-0; No. 9 Yannick Noah ofFrance defeated Terry Moor 6-2, 6-4 and No. 13 Stefan Edberg of Sweden eliminated Poland's Wojtek Fibak 6-2, 6-0. 
Besides Navratilova and Lend!, other seeds posting second-round victories in day matches were No. 4 Anders Jarryd and No. 8 Joakim Nystrom, both of Sweden; No. 7 Hana Mandlikova ofCzechoslovakia, No. 10 Carling Bassett of Canada, No. 11 Bonnie Gadusek, No. 14 Pam Casale and No. 1 5 Catarina Lindqvist ofSweden. 

IDbt IKnigltm oftltt <!Iastlt 
Men's Hair Styling at its finest ... 
272-0312 minutes from campus ! 277-1619 

l
gemen. Syracuse averages over 73 "The Pearl's as good as anyone in .i points per game as a team. "For us to the country -I think the fans out J
Men win the game, we have to have a 50 here will really appreciate seeing percent shooting game," said him in person."
continuedfrom page 16 

Phelps. "That's something we did For Notre Dame, Barlow con­1 Notre Dame most likely will go last week at Pauley. We can't afford tinues to lead the team in scoring with its latest starting lineup, which to go into a drought. We can't with a 15.7 average, trailed closely features Donald Royal, Jim Dolan recover from shooting 35 percent, by Rivers at 14.3. Rivers also leads 
l
and Ken Barlow on the frontline, and or even 40 percent. We just have to the Irish in assists with almost five David Rivers and Joseph Price at have a lot ofpositives as far as offen­per game, while Barlow is the guards. .§jve execution. leading rebounder for the Irish, with "We're in a groove with Royal and "It's hard to say who'll favor what. 7.3 boards a game. Price, but that doesn't mean (Tim) We're at our best when we run and Kempton and (Scott) Hicks won't be press. Yet, we played well against Game time tomorrow is set for 3 factors, because they both have to UCLA playing man-to-man the p.m., and the game is a sellout. A pep 
be factors. whole game. More than likely, they rally is scheduled for tonight at 7:15 "Starting doesn't mean anything will be going to a zone once they get in the Auxiliary Gym ofthe ACC. to me; it never has, it never will. It's the lead, so that's one thing we'll be "I can't say enough about the stu­
just 'let's play,' and we've been working on." dents," said Phelps. "This student playing very well." It won't be easy, though. The body now reminds me of the stu­The Irish will have to play to their Orangemen are loaded with talent, dents in '72, '73, and '74. To come potential to upset the favored Oran-and have added incentive following back home from UCLA in 1 0-degree their loss to the Eagles. weather and see a thousand students "They're very deceptive as far as waiting for us . . .. The enthusiasm 
their talent because they're so ex­here is incredible, plosive at a given moment. You can't "This is one of those ND really hope for one guy to have a let­moments. The players need that down. kind ofsupport right now." 

r-~:-l 
Buy 15 visits I at$40 
1 
getSFREE
I I 



1'--;.;;=-l 

r!) ~ ~ Tan with your ~f(Jf!Jft)t7CJ Valentine ~r!)t!J 1 7 visits $28 J 
~'9 I (reg. $39) 
(or someone else's) ()

c:J ~-----1
mN-HAWAfAN I COMBO SPECIAL 
6 bed & 6 booth

sun tannrg salon 
visits $49 I -plus-1

2n-1026 
2 bed & 2 booth 
I J 

L.---•R•E•D•E•E•M-B•Y•F•E•B•.•1•4•,•19•8•5____l_:=-:~=:~ 
~---------------~
i i
$1.000FFCOUPON 
I BONITA'S GIANT 1 I WET BURRITO $3.50 I I I 
I carryout I
I available on 1 allitems I 
I 271-5990 I I 
open 11:00-11:00 1 daily 1I 

146 Dixieway S. I South Bend I (just north past toll road) I I EXPIRES FEB. 7, 1985 I \ I 
~---------------~ 

The Observer 

Friday, February 8, 1985 -page 12 
Meet tomorrow 

Patterson leads indoor track team 
By NICK SCHRANTZ 
Sports Writer 

Coming off a convincing win in 
the Midwestern City Conference 
Meet, the Notre Dame indoor track 
team travels to Bloomington, Ind., 
today for the Indiana Intercollegiate 
Meet. 

The Irish will compete against a competitive field, which includes perenial powerhouse Indiana Uni­versity. However, co-captain James Patterson remains unworried about the high caliber of the competition. 
"We are a well-balanced team, and ifwe come together and don't worry about the other teams, then we have a good chance to win," Patterson ex­plained. "Indiana is a good team, and we've had some bad breaks this year, but overall I think we will do well." 
Impressive performances turned in by Patterson thus far this year con­tributed strongly to the Irish success in their conference meet and gives them confidence heading into today's meet. 
The senior has won both the triple jump and long jump in all three meets in which he has competed this year. His bests include a 24-9 long jump in the Western Michigan Open, which broke his old Notre Dame record by an inch, and a leap of forty-eight feet, six and three­fourths inches in the triple jump against Iowa, which is the third-best indoor triple jump in Notre Dame history. 
Patterson's talents do not lie only in the triple jump and long jump. So far this year, he also has competed in the high jump and 60-yard high hurdles. Furthermore, in the three previous years he also has entered the 60-yard dash, l 00-yard dash, l l 0-yard high hurdles, and 4x I 00­yard relay. All this makes Patterson 


t ~ 
i 
James Patterson 
one of the most versatile performers in Notre Dame history. 
Patterson not only competes in a multitude of events, but he usually wins them. He recorded the best marks on the team last year both in­doors and outdoors in the long jump, triple jump and high jump. 
'Ilte University City, Mo., native holds the school record for the in­door long jump ( 24-9 ), outdoor long jump ( 25-2) and outdoor triple jump (fifty feet, two and one-half inches). He also ranks second on the all-time Notre Dame list for the in­door triple jump, and ninth and tenth for the outdoor and indoor high jump, respectively. 
Despite his versatility, Patterson will concentrate on the long jump and triple jump this year. He pro­vided many valuable points last year in the high jump, but the return of high jumper Lloyd Constable allows him to focus on his two specialties. 
Patterson's duties to the team have increased even more this year, due to his being elected co-captain. However, he has adapted to his new role and its added responsibilities with the same success as he dis­played on the track. 
"He's an excellent captain, and doing a very good job," said Irish head coach Joe Plane. "He's not the 

~ 
type of captain who is out there leading cheers all the time. Instead, he leads by example because he is a 
t real competitor and a hell of a worker." 
Patterson said he has felt his role 
on the team change with the addi­
tion ofhis new responsibilities. 
"Before, I had more or less a role 
of not leadership, but something 
more supportive. I would just try to 
do my best and get some points for 
the team," Patterson related. "Now, I 
still have the responsibility to do my 
best and score points, but I have to 
set an example instead ofjust being a 
supporter." 

Patterson had a successful high school career at University City High School. He even long jumped over 23 feet as a senior. Despite his ability, the adjustment to college wasn't easy. 
When Patterson entered Notre Dame, all track performers were re­quired to run a two-mile test in un­der 12 minutes. He had trouble with the test, which held him back so he only competed in the long jump. The test troubled him at the start of his sophomore year, but the rule was dropped in time for him to get in shape and compete outdoors. 
Patterson remained at Notre Dame in the summer following his sophomore year to go to school and work on technique. This extra effort paid off, and he finally was able to realize his full potential during his junior year. 

Rafael Addison, a 6-7 forward for Syracuse, will be trying to improve his team-leading averages of 19.8 points and 6.2 reboundspergame tomorrow against the Irish. For a preview ofthe game, see the backpage. 

"College was a big change for me, 
and it took me two years to adjust. 
There were a lot oftrials and tribula­
tions, but I made it through all 
right," he explained. "The two-mile 
test was bothersome, but I finally got 
it off my chest and then things fell 
through for me." 

Patterson will graduate this spring 
with a combined degree in Govern­
ment and ALPA. He plans to attend 
MBA school, preferably in the South 
so he can train for track all year. 
His ultimate goal in track is the 1988 Olympics. Two major prob­lems he anticipates will be finding a sponsor to pay for expenses and competing against the world's best. However, Patterson won't let those problems hold him back. 
"IfI do better this year maybe the sponsors will come and help pay for expenses and MBA school," he said. "I feel ifyou strivefor something and work hard for it, then you can achieve it ifyou really want to." 
Patterson has set his sights high for the remaining part of the year and after graduation. However, he has never been one to place limita­tions on himself. With that kind of attitude, the Notre Dame track team appears to have a fine leader with high hopes for a successful perfor­mance today and the rest ofthe year. 

Friday, February 8, 1985-page 13 

Sports Briefs 
Fencers travel to six-team tourney 
A pep rally for the basketball game tomorrow against Syracuse will be held today at 7:15 p.m. in the auxilary gym in the ACC. -The Obseroer 
The Notre Dame Squash Club will play host 
to the regional Insilco tournament on feb. 15, 16 and 1 7 at the ACC. Two winners will receive an expense-paid trip to Chicago in April. All members of the student body, faculty or staff are invited to sign up by Wednesday in the ACC.-The Obseroer 
An interhall wrestling toumament is being sponsored by NVA. for information, contact the NVA office at 239-6100. The deadline for entries is Wednesday.-The Obseroer 
An indoor soccer tournamentis being held 
by NVA, beginning feb. 18. The deadline for submitting nine-player rosters is friday, feb. 15. For more information, call the NVA office at 239-6100.-The Obseroer 
Knee injuries from sports will be discussed by Dr. Leslie M. Bodnar, senior consultant of the Notre Dame sports medicine program, on feb. 19 at 7 p.m. in the football auditorium in the ACC. Admission to the lecture is free. -The Obseroer 
By KEVIN HERBERT 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame men's fencing team will put its unscathed 10-0 record on the line tomorrow when it takes on five fencing squads in a tournament at Oakland University in Michigan. 
The Irish will open the tourna­ment tomorrow morning at 9:30 when they take on Michigan Dear­born, a team with relatively little tal­ent. Next, the Irish take on a talented Detroit squad and another from their host, Oakland. Notre Dame rounds out the tourney by fencing Chicago and Ohio State. 
Notre Dame should, if past form holds true, come out of the tourna­ment with five victories and no defeats. The team will, however,face some tough competition, particu­larly from Ohio State and Detroit. 
Notre Dame coach Mike DeCicco said he looks forward to tomorrow's action. 
"We should win all of our bouts and come back 5-0," DeCicco said. "It will be an interesting weekend of fencing." 
DeCicco said he expects the toug­hest competition from OSU and Detroit. 
"Detroit has a good sabre team 

Pizza Hut'Delivers a Deal. 
For our friends at Notre Dame. 
Pizza Hut® is Rollin'Now! 
What could be better than tasty Pizza Hut<!: pizza? How about Special Delivery'" and special savings! Pizza Hut · rolling now with free delivery-right to your door. Just call the number below and enjoy your Pizza Huf pizza along with the special savings. 
HOURS: Friday and Saturday -4:00 pm -2:00 am thru Thursday -4:00pm -12:00 M 
Limited Delivery Area Drivers carry no more than $20 
((":"-~_
II -­
90 
>"'j-;' 



tl 
~~Area ~ 
EWINGAVE . . 
§ _-;~~ iii 
, 13·~ 3: -=---C\~~ \,:'"'
~IF ­
l-=.J Mis'H~<W~>"-~" 
JACKSONRD 

Free Delivery r.all: 232·2499 




r----------------·-----------, 
A 6-Topping Supreme Co. bination Pizza for a 1-Topping Pricf-
Get a Pizza Hut' 6-topping Supreme in any size for the price of a 1-topping pizza in the same size. 
Please ment1on coupon when ordering. One coupon per party per del1very at participating Pizza Hut' Special Delivery'"' umts. Not valid for dine-in or carry-out, or m combmat1on with any other Pizza Hut· offer Limited Delivery Area. Our drivers carry no more than $20. Offer good onlv on reaular menu orices through 
,-------=C--ou:::.poc:..n expires February 22, 1985 Cash value 1120•. . 1985 Pizza Hut, Inc. 

and one particularly good foilist," he said. "Ohio State is very strong in epee and foil with Sunil Sabharwal leading the way." 
Sabharwal, in only his sophomore year, already is an all-American with impressive credentials, but he will have to go against the 1984 national champion in the foil, Notre Dame's Charles Higgs-Coulthard ( 16-1 ). He also will face Irish captain Mike Van der Velden with a record of 16-5. 
Detroit will bring a team of respectable talent into the tourna­ment, most of the talent being found in its sabre team. Notre Dame's su­perior depth however, should be able to dispose of Detroit without much difficulty. 
Chicago brings a good, talented team into the tournament yet DeCicco said he sees them placing no higher than third. 
Oakland University, the host of the tournament, brings a very young team into the tourney. DeCicco ex plained that this weekend's action is being held at Oakland to help the fencing program there. 
"The tournament is being held a Oakland mainly because Notre Dame, as well as the other schools, is trying to help the Oakland fencing program get established, this effort is similar to what other schools did for us some 25 years ago. 
"Oakland has two very good, young, talented fencers. That is al ways an impetus for a good pro gram." 
This weekend's tournament at Oakland will feature some talented teams. However, Notre Dame should be able to take advantage of its superior team balance and come away with five victories. 

Former Notre Dame player Laimbeer makes All-Stars 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS · Center Bill Lrumbeer of the DetrOit Pistons was named yesterday to replace injured Jeff Ruland of the Washington Bullets on the East squad for Sunday's 35th National Basketball Asso­ciation All-Star game. 
Ruland, suffering from a strained right shoulder, has missed 12 of the Bullets' last 13 games. 
Laimbeer, a former Notre Dame player, also was a replacement for the East Stars last year when Moses Malone of Philadelphia missed the game with an injury. The Pistons' center had 13 points and five rebounds in 17 minutes a year ago as the East defeated the West 154-145 in overtime. 
GIVE YOUR VALENTINE Give a soft HUDSON BAY MOHAll! THI!OW In authentic tartans:
THE HOTS! 

Black Watch, Stewart, Gordon ·or classic Hudson Bay blanket (or at least the warms) 
·or wool ND stadium blanket ·only at Frontier Woolens · . or other wool 
Near Campus In the THIEVES MARKET· Edison & Ironwood, SOtsiSuns only 

WANTED 
Hotel Night Desk Clerk Part Time 
Must be available through summer. 
Please call 233-1154 for an interview appointment 
~~~FACTORY :) ET!WE PMTy Z,-/f-BS' ~.lltr.< IY61N {/. ~ I'H T,"L L CLo5t= Ntrf r-•oPJI'-' -P~IZES ~0~ 154 ~1.~~z ~8Loo~»~snoH~¥[fER~¥rt!' WPI}osf"c!-E~Pitr.. ~~ 1{3lr "'/.'6~y "' 1"js" 2.15 ore•~~~ "'1f;,~ ~'!Of~ 

f! rr&~ II' /311D -~ !J::.,-tlf/r" 
1'.J'tiOOif~~ P'Ltn;
orc•Fr
,)., 
rt~~nm
Mil-li 

1'\\v&ES~
/.-ITE75
~ 
'{\ t-'15~ tJI flO 

cJ 75~ ~..v.i.<t
.50 
<:t 
I!YM I(. l(Jl_OL{) 

.!:JIVDDk~ 
!!l6ttY .... 13-YC.A-N 
~ 

'-(~,..,,,
5TYL~i 

1'0 ,.,,c.
of{~F~ 
p,:r 
WtfG 4:
0:::' 
6; 

75~
o~' &s~ 
75~ 
75 

~ 41 {YSII~~ I!YGIW i!YLIT.E' K~/JV/) ~Ol-D
PtTC.IHi. 
sty'-;;
1..1.. 
{SI'f' 
A/17~5~
NIT~;~ 
p1rt.J16ff
qo~ 

'Z. 75 
'1..7S'Tifi NITE lh~t'PY /lOti/? -7 OPt~ 4irPiSK 
DIU>~T JJ~Etr 7S. IU1 II1i 0 /l /llkr l.(ltl._:fl.ll BEER /.00 1Sl6 )J. IROftlli'DOP 
-

MR. D's 
1516 N. Ironwood South Bend 233-7747 
~.OL-0 I/Y14WAIJ STVL~f'> 8hLl­
P'ri1s 'fo4 
~LITE 'e/Loll& oRDf~ t5UIJV 6S 
•'" TE4
/.'Jo 
/). J. '5 /() 11:1"1. T!U aos&. 
1/:t?#--?CU)S£ 
,, ;_ J) 7 7 'f 7 
). !jEN[).L IND.~ 

"l' / 
/Y~ 
lln, Deloere 


--------~ ~--~­
The Observer Friday, February 8, 1985 -page 14 

Irish hockey team faces Iowa to end rough week 

By ED DOMANSKY 
!>ports Writer 

After surviving 26 hours of a 
round-trip bus ride to Huntsville, 
Ala., five days in that iced-in city and 
a tie and a loss to Alabama­

Huntsville, the Notre Dame hockey 
team finally returned home at 2 a.m. 
last Tuesday morning. 
Weary and somewhat dismayed by the turn ofevents between Friday night's hard-fought, come-from­behind tie ( 7-7) and Saturday's crushing defeat ( 9-4 ), it was difficult to find anyone in the traveling party who wanted to do anything but get off the bus, let alone begin thinking about this weekend's opponent, Iowa State. 
After missing Monday's workout, the Irish had a light practice on Tuesday, and finally returned to a full practice on Wednesday. 
"Our extended stay put us a day off schedule, but our goals are still quite obvious," said head coach Lefty Smith. "It sounds redundant to keep saying it, but we still need to put together three solid periods." 
If the Irish could have combined the third and overtime periods from Friday's tie along with Saturday's first period, they would have come away with a 7-3 victory. 
Unfortunately, it doesn't work that way. And just the same, if the first two periods from Friday and the final two periods of Saturday's con­test would have been added to­gether -it would have found the Irish on the short end of an I 1-4 tally. 
"We need to work for that consis-

Women 
continuedfrom page 16 
Schueth have been very effective inside recently, combining for about 20 points a game during the team's hot streak. Freshman Kathy Brom­meland has also contributed a good 

r 
t 
tency," added Smith. "The kids showed a lot of character coming back after trailing the whole game on Friday. But Saturday, when things started going against us, we lost everything." 
Tonight and tomorrow, Notre Dame (6-I 5-1 ) will entertain the Cyclones from Iowa State in 7:30 
p.m. contests both nights at the ACC 
When the Irish last played at the ACC, they ended an eight-game losing streak by defeating Lake For­est, 6-4, onJan. 23. 
In the most recent encounter be­tween Notre Dame and Iowa State, the Cyclones defeated the Irish, 4-2, last March 3 at the ACC to win the Central States Collegiate Hockey League playoff title. Notre Dame had taken both games ofa regular-season weekend series in late January in Ames, Iowa. The Irish skated away with 4-3 and 6-4 wins. 
Iowa State will arrive at Notre Dame with an I8-8-I record. Against a common opponent, the Cyclones defeated Huntsville, 4-3, and then were demolished by the Chargers, I2-4, two weeks ago in Huntsville. 
Already, the Cyclones have im­proved last season's IO-I2 record. "With the way things have been 
going,  Iowa  State  will  be  a  for­ 
midable  challenge  for  us,"  said  
Smith.  

"We think that last year's playoff victory was a fluke," said junior for­ward Steve Whitmore. "And that's what we're out to prove." 
The Irish still are not sure who will start in the games this weekend. Senior co-captain Brent Chapman continues to lead the Irish in scoring 



deal off the bench. 
Joining Keys, Schueth and Botham in the starting lineup will be fresh­man point guard Mary Gavin and for­ward Lynn Ebben. DiStanislao has been pleased with the performance of this group, which has been very effective in recent wins over Butler ( 79-40). Evansville ( 7 4-5 3) and Dayton. 

students 

.Sponsored b)'tbe SEN/OR adSS 
~ 
L 
! I 
T $1each person.. 5 per room YOU DRIVE 
0 $184 each person....s per room t WE DRIVE 
t N ~ 
~ c..aJ1.2.3..9..:._5~3 6 OR . 
~ A
I Sl.Qp_b_y_LS La EQnune Sr. Office M-E 6 TO 9!21ll 
with 27 goals and 22 assists. Chap­be either Marc Guay ( 1-2, 7.00 man's linemate Tim Reilly is second GAA), Tim Lukenda (4-II-l, 6.56) with 42 points and I6 goals. Junior or A1 Haverkamp ( 1-2, 6.7I). co-captain Bob Thebeau is six points Defenseman Greg Duncan joined off the pace with I 7 goals and I9 as­left wing Dav<: Waldbillig on the in­sists. jury list. Duncan suffered a hip 
In the goaltending department, pointer in Saturday's contest. Smith has yet to officially announce Waldbillig has been out of action his starter for this weekend. It will _since:_ ~e consolation game of the Forester Classic on Jan. I9. 
The Irish certainly are looking for the right ingredients to get back into the win column, and this weekend's series could provide them with just the right opportunity to get things back on track. But as Smith has stressed, it will take a solid, three­period performance both nights. 







Righttoyourdoor. 
(Within a two-mlle radius.) 

Call us anytime after 5 p.m., order a medium or large pizza piled high with any combination of your favorite toppings, sit back and relax. We'll be right over. Just think, hot, thick and delicious Godfather's Pizza, loaded with mountains of toppings and smothered with a thick layer of cheese. Mmmmmmm .... Are you hungry? Call Godfather's Pizza now. We'll be right over. 




277-5880 

52929 U.S. 31 North 
Delivery available only at South Bend location. 

TankMcNamara Jeff Millar & Bill Hinds 
•
3:30 p.m. · Lecture, "Sennett, Chaplin, Keaton and the Art ofSilent Comedy," Prof. Patrick Ander· son, Colby-Sawyer College, New Hampshire, Room 242 O'Shaughnessy. 

•7 
& 9:30p.m. · Film, "Mildred Pierce," Carroll Hall (SMC), S1.50. 

•
7, 9:15 & 11:30 p.m. · Film, "Poltergeist," Engi· neering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activi· ties Board. 

•7:30 
& 9:30 p.m. · Friday Night Film Series, "Erendira," Arinenberg Auditorium. 

•7:30 
p.m. · Hockey, ND vs. Iowa State, ACC Fieldhouse. 

•8 
p.m. -CILA Lecture, "Economic Justice," Sr. Amata Miller, Ubrary Auditorium. 

•9 
p.m. -1 a.m. -ROTC Tri-Military Ball, ACC 

Saturday, Feb. 9 

•9 
a.m. -1 p.m. -Workshop, "Economic Justice: How Should We Respond?" Mary Hawley, ND Graduate, Library Lounge, Sponsored by CILA, Free. 

•12 
p.m. -Basketball, ND Women vs. Xavier­Syracuse, ACC Arena. 

•3 
p.m.-Basketball, ND Men vs. Syracuse, ACC Arena. 

•3 
p.m.· Free Throw Contest, Half Time of the ND vs. Syracuse Basketball Game, ACC Arena, Sponsored by ND Millions Against MS, Sl/rafile ticket. 

•7, 
9:15 & 11:30 p.m.· Film, "Tootsie," Engineer· ing Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board. 

•7:30 
p.m.-10:30 p.m.-Internadonal Fesdval, Washington Hall. 

•9:30 
p.m. -M1V Video Kickoff Party, ACC Arena, Sponsored by ND Millions Against MS, 52. 




The Daily Crossword 
33 Much 66 Recent 1 0 Field bleat 34 2·1, 3·1 etc. 67 Tearwith 11 Forbids with ACROSS 
1 Sheer 36 Corn holder violence authority6 Latin I word 38 Kind of cat 68 Crane's cousin 12 Wrap10 Film 14 Statesman 40 Moral 69 Lean-to 13 Reluctant 43 Skirt feature 70-bien 21 RoadstersDeValera 44 Jap. ship word 71 Court wear 
15 Form of payment 46 Battle site, 22 Cloud segment 16 Con 26 Scarlet's
WWII 47 Ground down 
neighbor17 Happify 49 Essay subject DOWN 27 Butting beast 18 Formerly 51 Ormandy 1 Bishoprics19 Tittle 53 Outer: pref. 

2 Soapstone 28 Gr. underground 20 Student's 55 Onassis 3 Oriental maid 29 Like some reward 4 Magazine students 23 High priest 56 Wordy com· section 30 Dress 24 Pale-green petition 5 Tolls moth 62 Coin for 6 Arboreal 32 Manipulator25 Revered 
Khomeini beginning 35 Attic township 64 Exchange 7 Kind of roof 37 Isle near Java 27 Change players premium 39 Jackets
8 Author Sholom 
31 Like some back 65 Eucalyptus 41 All in music
9 Believerof roads lover a kind 42-Gatos 

45 Sweet miss 57· River to the 
of song Elbe 48 Leave 58 Kind of dancer 50 Goose 59 Insult 51 Nobility 60 Robert­52-Heep 61 Lunches 54 Stupid fellows 63 "-Zeppelin" 
Thursd~'s Solution 




~Lf' I~SH GARDEN 
I:-.~_.. c:J,; Your Valentine's Day ~ ) ) Headquarters 
Get your Valentine's Day orders in before February 12 Dial M•u•M•s OPEN M -Sat 12:30 -5:30 



,.....--------------------------­
Friday, February 8, 1985-page 1 

orts 
Explosive sophomore guard Dwayne "The Pearl" Washington wtll lead Syracuse into the ACC tomorrow for a nationally televised contest. The Irish wtll try to keep Washington below his averages of14.9 points and six assists pergame as they attempt to upset the t"ixth-ranked Orangemen. Marc Ramirez provides a preview of the game at right and jeff Blumb adds commentary below. 
Still on a roll 

Women face Xavier tomorrow 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame women's basket­
ball team is on a roll right now, 
something which is bad news for 
North Star Conference opponent 
Xavier. The Lady Musketeers, strug­
gling along at 2-16 ( 0-6 in confer­
ence play), must try to slow down 
the Irish, winners of six of their last 
seven, when they visit the ACC to­
morrow for a game which begins at 
noon. 
It will not be an easy task for Xavier, which finds itself stuck in last place in the conference. Notre Dame has hit its stride at exactly the right moment, at least as far as the conference race is concerned, and finds itself in a tie for first place after handing Dayton its first North Star loss of the season on Tuesday. 
"We're making our game better," says Irish coach Mary DiStanisiao, whose team now has won five home games in a row. "We'r-e improving on the things we need to do to win. More importantly, we're learning how to win. 
"We're at a point in the confer­ence season, though, where we have to do what we do well every time we play. I have no doubt that the kids are fired up after the Dayton win (81-66 at UD). We did a lot ofthings well and need to look to Improve on that. But we're too smart to think we can look past anybody." 
It would be easy to look past the Musketeers, who, as their record in­dicates, have been having serious problems In their second year in the North Star. After finishing 10-16 last year (3-7 in the NSC), Coach Laurie Massa's squad has found its upgraded schedule more than It can handle. 
If there is one thing that has hurt Xavier this year, It has been defense. The Musketeers have given up al­most 90 points per game, an in­credibly high total, and have allowed opponents to make almost 50 percent of their shots. With the Musketeer offense averaging 66 points on 39-percent shooting, it Is no surprise that Xavier Is losing games by large margins. 
Not all is bad for the Musketeers, though, as a few individual players have been able to supply some bright spots in 1984-85. Forward Stacy Land has been the brightest performer by far as she has led the Xavier offense with her 20.8 points per game. The 6-0 senior leads the conference with that figure and also holds a spot among the NSC rebounding leaders with her 7.4 average. 
"Land is real strong and uses her strength well," says DiStanislao. "She's not particularly quick, but she can power to the basket and has a good touch on her turnaround." 
Land gets some help on offense from 5-7 guard Shannon Sowers. The sophomore has supplied most of the outside scoring for the Musketeers and is the only other player besides Land who is averaging in double fig­ures ( 11.0 ppg). 
Until last week, Land and Sowers were about the extent ofXavier's of­fense, but that changed when fresh­man center Terry Coughman introduced herself in a 100-74 loss to Dayton. In that game, she scored 19 points and pulled down 13 rebounds, while picking up four as­sists, two blocks and three steals. Her emergence can only be good news for Massa. 
Although the Musketeers do not appear to be a serious threat, DiS­tanislao is not about to look past them to next week's tough op­ponent, Alabama. 
"We're not in the position where we can afford to look past anybody," says the fifth-year coach. "I expect a good solid performance from every­one -and I mean everyone. If we're going to win the conference, we're going to have to win it one game at a time." 
There is little doubt that Irish for­ward Trena Keys will be the main force as Notre Dame tries to im­prove on its 11-7 ( 4-1 ) record. The 6-0 junior has been impressive in recent weeks, scoring in double fig­ures in ten straight games and im­proving her team-leading scoring average to 17.2 points a game. If Keys hits double figures against Xavier's porous defense, she will set 


Irish hope to upset Syracuse and keep victory streak alive 
By MARC RAMIREZ 
Sports Writer 
What's amazing is that Syracuse head coach Jim Boeheim had said that this year's team would be "good," while next year's team would be "great." Well, if this 15-4 team is only "good," one just has to wonder what Boeheim meant by "great." 
Avery good Syracuse team, led by sophomore guard Dwayne "The Pearl" Washington," invades the ACC tomorrow determined to retain its Top-1 0 status following a 67-66 loss to Boston College last Monday. 
The Irish are 13-5 and enjoying a four-game winning streak. 
"Coming off the UCLA and LaSalle wins and playing a team that is as good as Syracuse," said Notre Dame head coach Digger Phelps, "the timing is right for Notre Dame. 
"The overtime loss to St. John's, their loss to Villanova, their loss the other night to Boston College, they don't really mean that much. If anything, it makes them a better tournament team. 
"Come March, it's obvious Syracuse will be in the NCAA tourna­ment." 
the school record for most con­secutive games with 10 or more points. 
Unlike the Musketeers' Land, however, Keys has been getting help from her teammates. Freshman Sandy Botham and senior Mary Beth 
see WOMEN, page 14 


Still something to prove 
Tournament time is quickly approaching and the Notre Dame basketball team has to count every game as an important one from now on. Last Sun­day's win at UCLA was a big one, as any win over the Bruins is, but it should not be forgotten that UCLA is only a 9-9 team. And the fact is, Notre Dame won't find too many .500 teams in the NCAA tournament. 
It's a pretty safe bet that the Irish will be able to win enough games over the remainder ofthe season to get into the tournament, but they won't last more than a round or two ifthey don't start beating team's like tomorrow's opponent, Syracuse, very soon. 
Notre Dame has played very well at times this season. The UCLA win, as well as wins over Indiana, Marquette, and Dayton all were important in their own way. Yet the fact still remains that the Irish have yet to beat an opponent which has consistently been in the Top Twenty. I know it, you know it, and Dig­ger Phelps and his players know it. 
One ofthe team's goals all season long has been to become a ranked team. But every time the chance to beat someone big and possibly get ranked has pre­sented itself, Notre Dame has come up short. It has happened twice with DePaul and it happened a couple ofweekends ago with Maryland. 
Now the same chance presents itself again when the sixth-ranked Orangemen come to the ACC. How the Irish will respond is anyone's guess. Being that the season is just beginning to wind down, Notre Dame can't afford to wait much longer to pull off the real big upset it has been shootingfor all season long. 
The Irish have been playing very well oflate. Wed­nesday's win over LaSalle was most impressive. The letdown which some expected to occur against the Explorers never did happen. So now Notre Dame heads into tomorrow's contest very ready, both mentally and physically. 
Personnel-wise this team is really starting to come together. Ken Barlow, Donald Royal and Jim Dolan up front, with Kempton first off the bench, has proven to be perhaps the most effective combina­tion of the season. Add the much-improved play of 

A victory against the Orangemen would certainly be a boost ofadded confidence for the Irish, but boosts of confidence don't typically come easily. Syracuse is no exception. 
"You're talking about one of the top four or five teams in the country as far as the consistency of having personnel, as well as a system that can play against anyone, whether it's at home or on the road," said Phelps. "They just have the bench and the depth. 
"Jim Boeheim has always had a team that plays well. They're not complicated. They just want you to shoot from the outside. So we're going to have to shoot well from the outside, but I also feel we can get inside and do some things there." 
Pep Rally 7:15 tonight Auxiliary Gym 
Washington is starting at guard for the Orangemen following a year in which he became the first freshman ever to make the all-Big East first team, as well as being named the league's Rookie of the Year. "The Pearl" is averaging 14.9 points a game, and so far has dished out I 13 assists, more than twice the number of his nearest teammate, 6-2 sopho­more Greg Monroe, who has 54. Washington is best remembered for his flashy 27 points and six assists in Syracuse's 82-71 overtime loss to Georgetown in last year's Big East tournament final. 
"Defensively," Phelps pointed 
Jeff Blumb 
Assistant Sports Editor 

Joseph Price in the backcourt to the creative ability of David Rivers and it is easy to see why the Irish are starting to take off like they did last year before Kempton went out with his stress fracture about this point in the season. 
The key -now is to beat a big-name team like Syracuse on national television. Such a feat certainly won't be easy. The Orangemen are a multi-talented team. Just stopping an explosive player like Pearl Washington won't be enough to win. Any one of about five other guys have the capability to hurt Notre Dame. 
The Irish do have other games like the Syracuse one left. There's Duke next weekend at the Meadowlands, Washington here, and the season finale against Dayton at UD Arena, which is always a tough place to play. But ·Notre Dame has to start beating nationally-ranked teams sometime if it hopes to do anything in post-season play, and tomor­row is just as good a time as any to do so. 
Student support, which Phelps has said is the best he's seen in years, will be important in the effort to knock off the Orangemen. Notre Dame can't afford to lose control of the game or to have any extended lapses, two problems it has had in big games earlier this season. To do their part, the student body can't allow the Irish to fall into either of these previous pitfalls. 
Still, the team itself has a job to do. The Irish need to maintain the same level of play they have shown in the last two games, and then take it one step beyond. If they can do that, a win is certainly a possi­bility. 
In many ways, though, that "if' is a big one. This team still has something to prove to its fans. 


out, "we're in trouble if the Pearl 
comes in here and scores 35. If he 
dominates the game like that, we're 
going to have problems, because the 
other players are that good. 

"Yet, I don't think we can just worry about him. If he gets his 18 shot.~. we have to hope he makes six. But you just don't stop The Pearl. He's just too good." 
lbe Pearl, however, is not the leading scorer for the Orangemen. Syracuse is powered by 6-7 junior Rafael Addison, a quick. sharp­shooting forward who can turn it on at any time. Addison is scoring at a 
18.2 pace for the Orangemen after a sophomore year in which he started every game and averaged 17.7 points. 
"Addison is so explosive," said Phelps. "He's got a quick release and he's an excellent outside shooter. He's like a third guard." 
The Orangemen also start 6-1 0 freshman Rony Seikaly, an import from Greece, at center. Seikaly is hit­ting more than 56 percent of his shots from the field. averaging 7.3 points while collecting a team­leading 6. 5 rebounds per game. 
"Seikaly is the most improved player on the team," commented Phelps. "He's playing with a lot of confidence right now and he's playing with a lot of good people, which has made him a better player." 
Joining Addison at the other for­ward position is 6-8 senior Andre Hawkins, a silent, 240-pound force who quietly totals seven points and five boards a game. Complementing Washington at the other guard spot is 6-4 sophomore Michael Brown, a talented offensive player who is shooting at a 54-percent dip for the Orangemen. 
see MEN, page 11 




