-------~--------~-~---­
Campus Comments -page 4 

VOL XX, NO. 16 the indqwndt·nt ~lutknl 
Post created to assist handicapped students 
By ROBERT RAPHAEL 
NeuiSStaff 
As a result of the increased enroll­ment of disabled students, Assistant Provost Sister John Miriam Jones was appointed last July as coor­dinator of disabled students by Provost Timothy O'Meara. 
"It wa..~ time to do something dif· ferent," Jones explained, "We realized we needed one person to oversee efforts to serve disabled stu· 
dent.~." 
Previously, the University Com· mittee for the Physically Handicapped and the Office of Stu· dent Affairs provided services to disabled students. 
Jones' responsibilities include ac­cessibility to buildings and clas· srooms, communication with faculty and administrators regarding special academic needs, referring disabled students and evaluating long term needs. 
"All ofa sudden we have more stu· dents who we have to be concerned about," Jones said. This year's fresh· man class, as last year's, has regis­tered 2S disabled students. Previously. there were less than 10 disabled students in each class, es· timated Jones. 
This increase can be traced to the 1974 Equal Educational Oppur­tunlty Act, which stated that educa· tiona! institutions could not discriminate against disabled stu· dents, according to Jones. In addi· tion, she said, educational institutions that accepted federal funding could not deny services to disabled students. Disabled students who started their primary education in 1974 in an ordinary environment are now ofcollege age. 
In 1974 Notre Dame formed the committee to work towards the ac­cessibility of buildings and to insure that services were not denied to stu· dents. 
Currently, Notre Dame meets its legal obligations. 
"But that's not the only thing we're interested in. We want to make the experience of a disabled student a..~ good as it possibly can be,"Jones said. 
Jones attributed the impetus of concern for the disabled to Stephen Rogers, who chaired the committee since 1980. Rogers, a blind profes­sor, dedicated his time to working with the disabled. "Stephen was our inspiration," Jones said. 
Last year, Notre Dame spent S20,000 restoring St. Edward's Hall to make it accessible to handicapped students. Father Pedi, rector, states the money was used to install two remote control doors, building spe· 
see DISABLED, page 3 
nt·w~papcr .~tT\ ing noln daml' and ~ainl man·~ 

APphoco
This is only a test 
NASA's newest space shuttle orbiter, Atlantis, fires its main engines Thursday for a 22-second test of readiness. Atlantis ts scheduled for a Department ofDefense launch on Oct. 3 at Ken­nedy Space Center. 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 198S 
Thatcher plans reply to Soviet expulsions 
Associated Press 
LONDON · Prime Minister Mar­garet Thatcher summoned two of her senior Cabinet officials for ur­gent talks yesterday on whether to order out more Soviets in response to the Soviet Union's expulsion of 2S Britons. 
Press Association, the British domestic news agency, said Mrs. Thatcher, Foreign Secretary Sir Geoffrey Howe and Home Secretary Douglas Hurd reached a decision, but were keeping it secret to avoid giving the Soviets advance notice. 
The agency's unattributed report said the decision would be an· nounced before Mrs. Thatcher leaves this afternoon for a four-day visit to Egypt andJordan. 
Aspokeswoman for Mrs. '11latcher confirmed that the meeting took place, but refused to give details. 
Howe had cut short a weekend break to begin what he said were "urgent and careful" talks with aides on how to respond to the Kremlin's move, announced Saturday. Mrs. Thatcher returned to London from her country retreat, Chequers, for the late-night session with Howe and Hurd. 
Weinberger assails Soviet lack ~of control in border incident 
AMoclated Press "The Soviets bumped his truck Weinberger's statement, which Weinberger may have said. He also said he had the impres­
deliberately where we were included no identification ofthe sol· "overdramatized what happened." sion that the soldier wasn't held nine 
WA.''iHINGTON Defense supposed to be, and doing what we dier or the location of the incident, "It's not clear if the truck was in a ·hours, but was gone from his Secretary Casper Weinberger, were permitted to do under a treaty· was made in response to a reporter's place it was supposed to be," said headquarters on the mission for nine denouncing the Soviets for failing to that is some 40 years old," question and appeared to take the the official, speaking on condition hours. "control their troops," said yester­Weinberger said on CBS' "face The White House, the State Department · he not be identified. He said that 
Under a U.S.-Soviet pact, a limitedday that a U.S. military observer in Nation." and even Pentagon officials · by after the vehicle was hit it slid into number of American soldiers areEast Germany was detained at gun­"It is the third or fourth incident surprise. some wire along a road and became 
permitted to travel in East Germany
point for nine hours after his truck of this kind," Weinberger said. Public affairs duty officers at all entangled. 
in return for similar rights by Soviet was deliberately bumped. "When he attempted to get out and three branches said they had no in· The official said that when a Soviet soldiers in West Germany.
Weinberger said the incident, fix the truck they pushed him back formation on the incident beyond commander belatedly came to the
which happened "a few days ago" into the truck and held him at gun· what Weinberger had said. Revela· Asked why the incident had not 
scene · blaming his delay on getting
but was not previously announced, point and detained him for roughly tions ofprevious incidents involving been announced by the United
lost · he ordered his troops to disen· 
involved a soldier in the same unit as nine hours and generally behaved in U.S. observers were made im· States at the time it happened,
tangle the truck.
Maj. Arthur Nicholson, a U.S. army the same way in which they did mediately after they occurred. Weinberger said: "we're trying our oftker killed by a Soviet bloc soldier when Maj. Nicholson was killed and An administration official, provid· "The Soviet commander best to get the conditions corrected. earlier this year. murdered." ing a few additional details, said apologized profusely," the official We're not interested in publicity." 
New University Ministry director 'pastor' of ND campus 
By MICHAEL DUNCAN charge of the various programs of­His office acts as a and do some serious thinking Vocation for the Congregation of News Staff fered by the Ministry. "clearinghouse" for thirty-five about their life and their faith. It is a the Holy Cross, where he was one perfect opportunity to pray and to of the top five vocation counselors 
One such program, whtch ac· 
University Ministry is "like the get their lives in order." for all the catholic relgious orders 
counts for much of the work done 
in the United States. This gained
parish ofthe University" according 
by the Ministry, Is Uturgical Music He also feels the Notre Dame 
Leveille an audience with the
to Its recently appointed director, 
and Planning. This program community should take a more Father Andre Leveille. 
Pope.
focuses on planning the music and active role in the the social out· 
Leveille is concerned with the 
often the themes for many of the reach program. In particular, he 
"The University Ministry is con· problems that face youth. He 
118 masses that occur at Notre recommended sponsoring
nected with the liturgical life and wants it known that he is "available 
Dame each week. refugees in order to help them pa..~torial activities of the entire to students." 
start new lives. 
"I dont want to be the ad­
University community, said The Pre-Cana, another program Leveille. He added that as Director offered by the University Ministry, Other programs sponsored by ministrator that's hiding behind 
of the Ministry his role is "the head is designed to help engaged University Ministry include: doors." pastor of the school · Its spiritual couples prepare for marriage. Ac· Military Draft Counseling, the Leveille's main aim is to make Religious Bulletin, and the Rite of sure that "someone is a better Cat·
leader." cording to LeveiUe, more than 115 Christian Initiation of Adults holic or Christain for coming to
'couples a year join the prograin. Leveille Is in charge of a large which provides Christian and Cat· Notre Dame." Leveille feels that if staff, making sure "that pastorial Two programs that Leveille feels holic Baptisms, and Confirmations. the students are not "closer to God needs are taken care of." He assigns are very important are the Retreat Before starting his present posi· when they leave then I have many of his staff members to be in and Social Outreach Programs. tionJuly 1, Leveille was Director of failed." 


------------------~------~~ 
Monday, September 16, 1985-page 2
The Observer 

In Brief 
Kevin Hurley, the Howard Hall freshman injured in a hit-and-run accident Sept. 7 remained in critical condition in in­tensive care last night at Memorial Hospital ofSouth Bend, a hospital administrator said. Hurley is recovering from a broken leg and mul­tiple head and abdominal injuries suffered in the early morning acci­dent. -The Obseroer 
A sex survey by an Ohio State University professor has found out that 50 percent ofcollege women, and about 80 percent ofcollege men, engage in premarital sex. Ofthe sexually active, over a third claim one sexual partner, 20 percent claim three or more, and 11 percent more than five. -The Obseroer 
Of Interest 
Women entrepreneurs will be the topic of a lecture tonight at 6:30 by Jill Houghton Emery, director of the U.S. Small Business Administration's Office ofWomen's Business Owner­ship. Emery assists present and prospective women business managers and owners. She has headed her own consulting firm, and ran for Congress from New York in 1984. The lecture, in Saint Mary's Carroll Hall, is free and sponsored by Saint Mary's Department of Business Administration and Economics. -The Obseroer 
A clothing drive, sponsored by Saint Mary's Junior Council, begins this week, and continues through October 6. The drive will benefit the St. Vincent DePaul Society. All types ofclothing are welcome and can be dropped off in boxes located in all Saint Mary's residence hall lobbies. -The Observer 
A Mass will be said for Inez Duarte, daughter ofjose Napolean Duarte, Notre Dame graduate and president ofEl Salvador, Monday at 12:15 in the Center for Social Concerns. Father Robert Pelton, will celebrate the mass, which will also be for victims of violence in El Salvador. -The Obseroer 
Appalachla Break Project will be t~e topic of an 
informational meeting tonight at 7 at the Center for Soc1al Concerns. Participants will travel to the Glenmary Farm in Vanceburg, Ken­tucky. The trip is sponsored by CILA. -The Obseroer 
"Senior Infonnal" registration will take 
place tonight, tomorrow night, and Wednesday night from 6 to 8 at LaFortune Information Desk. There is a $3 registration fee. -The Obseroer 
The Cycling Club of Notre Dame is sponsoring a membership meeting tonight at 7 in the Uttle Theater of the LaFortune Student Center. -The Obseroer 
Weather 
Sunnyweather todaywith the 

high in the mid to upper 70's. Tonight will be partly cloudy with the low in the lower to mid 50's. Mostly cloudy and mild tomorrow with the high in the mid to upper 70:s. -The Obseroer 
Design Editor................. Mark McLaughlin 
The .Observer-
Layout Staff.................... Carolyn Gillespie 
Typesetters ...................................... Pat Clark BiU Highducheck Dave Stephenitch 
News Editor.............................. .John Heasly lbc Obacrvcr (USPS 599 2-4000) is 
Copy Editor ......................... Margie Kersten published Monday through Friday and 
Sports Copy Editor...... Eric Scheuermann on home football Saturdays, except 
Viewpoint Copy Editor ...... Cindy Rauch­during exam and vacation periods. lbc 
horst 

VIewpoint Layout................. Carol Brown the University of Notre Dame and Saint 
Obacrvcr Is published by the studentsof 
Features Copy Editor .............. Mary Healy Mary's College. Subscriptions may be 
Features Layout................... Ellyn Mastako purchased for S30 per year ( S20 per se­
ND Day Editor........................ Aimee Starin mester) by writing lbe Obacrvcr, P.O. 
SMC Day Editor .................... Priscilla Karle Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Ad Design .................... Catherine Ramsden The Obacrvcr Is a member of lbc 
Sara Wolohan AMoclatcd Press. All reproduction 
Photographer ........................ Paul Ciffarelli rights are reserved. 
Typist ............................. .}odi Shellenbarger 


Enough football fun found without road trip to Ann Arbor 
O.K., so I'm a loser. 
While everybody else on campus made the trip to Ann Arbor to see the Wolverines knock off the Irish, I stayed at Notre Dame. The token junior Arts and Letters student among hundreds of car-less freshmen and throaty engineers. 
Now I'm paying the price. 
I've heard incessantly for two days that Notre Dame is not a real campus. At Michigan, people saunter up to a keg instead of mowing down everything in sight to get to one, and, "there were 60 girls to your left, 60 girls to your right, and they were all fantastic!!!" 
This last comment came from a just-returned and still-euphoric Domer (whom I saw at a misery party Saturday night -black armbands required) who kept repeating it to me and adding mournfully, "You'll never see anything like that at Notre Dame, Mary." 
Well, I'll reserve comment on that statement, but one thing I'm sure he missed out on was the experience of watching the game on TV. 
Now don't mistake me, I've seen my share of televised football games, and I've even seen my team lose on occasion. So this game should have been like many others. Why was it so different? 
I should have been clued­in even before kickoff that I was in for a strange after­noon. From the moment a particularly clueless girl in a crowded Keenan room heard the name Ara Parseg­hian and inquired in­nocently who "Eric" was, and ifhe had anything to do with Notre Dame football, I probably should have left in search of another TV. But even that wouldn't have helped. 
True, I would not have had to hold my temper and 
stifle impatient outbursts when she asked things like, 
"Was that bad for Notre Dame?'' as the Irish fumbled a 
kickoff inside the 20-yard line. 
But nothing short of turning down the sound could 
help me escape the inane and rambling commentary of 
CBS Sports. 
For example, what exactly did Bo Schembechler 
mean when he said that he'd like to maintain a 
"semblance of possession?" You either have the ball or 
you don't. There's no in between. As the afternoon 
wore on, however, I began to realize that whatever Bo's 
"semblance of possession" meant, the result was going 
to be disastrous for Notre Dame. 
Or what about Brent Musburger's enlightening com­
ment, "What has hurt Notre Dame has been Michigan's 
drives."? Either Mr. Musburger assumed his entire 


fH'HeHHIIIIIIIIII..HHIIIIIIIIIIIhllllllllllllllltllllll.lllllllltHtl...llltlllll...lllllllllllllllllllllllllll...llllllllllllltlltiHIHIH, 
BANKING... II ON CAMPUS AT SJ\INT MARY'S 
I 
I 
I 
Banking Hours-Monday through Friday Mon. thru Thurs. -11:30 a.m.-3:30p.m. 

Friday-ll:OOa.m. -4:00p.m. ~source

I _,.Bank
I Join Michiono's 1st Team -iJ for unsurpassed bonking serviae! Member F.o.1.c. i 
IHHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIHIIIIIHIIHIIH......IHIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIdiiiiiHitHNtt_l~ 
Mary Heilmann 
Assistant News Editor 

audience was composed of "Who's Eric?" types, or he merely felt an enormous compulsion to demonstrate his incredible grasp ofthe obvious. 
The guys watching the game with me were almost as good as the commentators at underestimating the intel­ligence of the room's female contingent. Granted, the clueless girl in the corner did her best to enhance our reputation. But in general, the idea that one is a football incompetent simply because one is a girl, is a myth that needs to be dispelled. Therefore, the statement that 
"Michigan only needs a touchdown and conversion to go ahead" when the score was ND 6, Michigan 0, was rather unnecessary. 
By game's end, however, even these irritations were forgotten in the apathetic gloom that hung over the survivors of the first contest in the 1985-86 season. 
We all trudged back to our respective dorms to sit quietly in darkened rooms and search our pasts to dis­cover what we had done horrible enough to bring such a fate upon us. But all 
q.f6 was not lost. Good old Bill Hickey and 
the University Food Services, perhaps sensing such an outcome, had the foresight to prepare pizza, chicken patties and choc­olate chip cookie bars to assuage our misery. 
So, all of you who were stupid enough to make the long trip to Ann Arbor and have to put up with endless kegs, rows of60 fantastic girls, and frat parties-don't try to tell me that I should have road-tripped to Michigan for entertainment. I had all I could stand. 
All the effort it took, was assembling a clueless girl, Brent Musburger, and the Fighting Irish. 
The Observer encourages the fru expression ofopinions through letters to the editor. Letters !hould be brief (approx.lmately 250 words}and rypcd whcMvcr possible. Alllclters 5hould be signed (although the aulhor's naJDC' need not Lc published). and should include: a phone number at whJch the author may be reached. L(:tters arc published on a spacc·availablc basis. Let· 
ters arc edited to correct errors in grammar and for space considerations. 


The Observer Monday, September 16, 1985-page 3 
Gettothe answersfaster. With the ll-55--ll. 

Weare NO 
Saint Mary's senior Barbie Samuelson and Notre Dame senior Brian McCart by were on band, along wttb I 05,521 others, to cheer on the Irish in their first Ann Arbor appearance in four years. Saturday's crowd boasted the largest in attendance of any col­legiate contest that day. 200 tickets were made available to Notre Dameand Saint Mary's students through a lottery earlier Ibis week, but many more were believed to have made the trip north. 

Colleges react to student protests; sell off interests in South Africa 
Associated Press 
Aspring of campus protests and a summer of South African violence have swelled the ranks of colleges that are selling all or part of their in­vestments in companies with dealings in South Africa. 
Since April, when scores of U.S. campuses erupted in anti-apanheid protests, about 20 colleges and uni­versities from Maine to Arizona have adopted policies of total or partial divestiture of South Africa-related holdings. 
Sixty-one schools have sold nearly S300 million in such portfolio hol­dings since tiny Hampshire College in Amherst, Mass., became the na­tion's first college in 1977 to adopt a South Africa-free investment policy, according to the American Commit­tee on Africa, a New York-based anti­apartheid lobbying group. 
A spot check by The Associated Press found many other colleges actively considering tougher policies as well. 
In recent weeks: 
•Columbia University, the scene last spring ofsome ofthe most bitter student demonstrations, announced it is likely to agree next month to divest itself of its S39 million in stocks of companies with South African operations. The plan has the suppon of Columbia President Mic­hael Sovern. 
Columbia, in New York, would be the first Ivy League college to adopt a policy of total divestiture of South African investments. 
•Rutgers University in New Jer­sey, another hotbed of student protest last spring, was considered all but certain to accept an Invest­ment committee recommendation made on Aug. 30 to sell its remaining 
17.5 million in South African hol­dings. 
•The 
University of Iowa divested Itself of more than 90 percent, or about S2.3 million worth, of its South African-related holdings. Some students were angered be­cause the school insisted It acted for economic, not moral, reasons. 

By contrast, a committee set up to study divestiture at Iowa State Uni­versity is expected to recommend shortly that the school sell its 1550,000 in such holdings, for moral reasons. 

•The 
Arizona Board of Regents voted Sept. 6 to order the University of Arizona in Tucson and Arizona 


State University In Tempe to divest themselves of their 13.3 million in South Africa-related holdings as soon as possible. 
•Bitterly 
divided trustees of the University of Vermont opted last week for limited divestment of the school's 17.3 million in South Africa­related investments. Vermont Gov. Madeleine Kunin argued in vain for full divestiture at the emotion­char~ed hearing. 

•As 
a result of tightened Invest­ment policies adopted this summer, Oberlin College announced this past week it had sold U.S. Steel stock valued at 1620,000 and IMS interna­tional shares worth 1142,000 be­cause neither company had signed the "Sullivan Principles," a voluntary code of conduct In which firms agree to work against apartheid. 


Among the schools that say they are reviewing their South African In­vestment policies are Harvard, Yale, Massachusetts Institute of Technol­ogy, University of Southern Califor­nia, University of Notre Dame, Indiana University, Northwestern University, Johns Hopkins Univer­sity, Brown University, the Univer­sity of Rhode Island, and Wesleyan University. 
..•· 
.... 
..... 
··''' 
<\',
'l •••-•• ... 
What you neeJ to tackle the higher mathematics of a science or engineering cur­riculum are more functions­more functions than a simple slide-rule calculator has. 
Enter the T!-55-11, with 112 powerful functions. You can work faster and more accurately with the Tl-55-11, hecause it's preprogrammeJ 
© l'lHHI 
to perform complex calcula­tions-like definite integrals, linear regression and hyper­holies-at the touch of a hutton. AnJ it can also he programmed to Jo repetitive prohlems without re-entering the entire formula. 
lndudeJ is the Calculator Decision-Making Sourcebook. 
lr makes the process of using the TI-55-ll even simpler, and shows you how to use all the power of the calculator. 

Get to the answers faster. Let a Tl-55-11 Jj;& show you how. ~ 
TEXAS 

INSTRUMENTS 
Creating useful pruJucts anJ services for you. 
Coast-to-coast strikes reaching settlements 
AAociated Press 
Negotiators reported progress yesterday in settling a school strike in Rhode Island, where 600 teachers have defied a judge's back-to-work order, as striking Seattle teachers planned to vote today on what their leaders called a "totally unaccep­table" offer. 
About 8,000 teachers nationwide were on strike, affecting almost 115,000 students in seven states, in­cluding Pennsylvania, Michigan, Ohio, New York and Illinois. 
In Rhode Island, negotiators In Pawtucket were to resume talks last 

'Beautiful rooms' at SMC 
By PEGGY PROSSER 
NewsSmff 
Beauty will be in the eyes of the judges during the Saint Mary's "Beautiful Room Con­test," starting Sept. 23, with the finals Sept. 26. 
Saint Mary's student govern­ment is sponsoring this new event and the five categories In­clude: most beautiful, most col­legiate, most unusual, cutest and best party room. 
The idea was the result ofa stu­dent government meeting last May. Fall was chosen because rooms are newly decorated, said Contest Chairman Patty Fallon. 
Fallon will be assisted by her committee ofhall vice presidents 
Disabled 
continuedfrom page I 
cial sinkS and modifying shower facilities. 
The additions to St. Ed's have been positive, according to one hand­icapped resident. "The people who worked with me had a very positive attitude, they were willing to satisfy my needs," said Pat Reese, a freSh· man with cerebral palsy. "Everybody is trying to help me out," Reese said. 

night after a 16-hour session with mediators ended Saturday without agreement, Both sides reported some progress. 
Superior Court Judge Corinne Grande ordered the weekend mediation Friday, hours after 2,000 of the district's 8,200 students were turned away from school because only 12 teachers obeyed her order to return to the classroom. She said she would consider citing the teac­hers for contempt ifthe talks fal.l. 
The district has offered a one-year contract with a 5 percent pay raise, while the teachers want a three-year pact with total salary Increases of 27 percent. 
Uz Meehan, Maureen Emy, Mary Costa, and Lisa Hagen. Preliminary judging by the hall housekeeping staffil will start at 3 
p.m. on Sept. 23. Final judging by selected members of the Saint Mary's faculty and administration will begin at 5:30 p.m. on Sept. 
26. "The judges will be people that we have contact with every day," Fallon said . 
"This contest will be a good chance to get roommates toget­her. It's good for building up spirit, and will be starting a tradl· tion for those who come to Saint Mary's in the future," Fallon added. 
Prizes have not yet been an­nounced and interested students may sign up through their sec· tion representatives this week. 

Jones is now concerned with problems such as narrow classroom doorways and heavy doors that make passage difficult for hand­Icapped students. 
"People who have obstacles to overcome are special people,"Jones a1ffirmed. Currently, there are over 75 disabled students at Notre Dame. Their disabilities include: paralysis, anhritls, leg amputation, cerebral palsy, heart condition, blindness, hearing impairment, nerve damage, readb.\g disabilities and quad­raplegics. 

~i~~~_()__i_ll___t________________
M_on-da-y,_Sep-te-mb-er_l_6,_19-85--p-ag-e4 

The bigger things in life are not always the better 
Has any news caught your attention lately? Seen any headlines? Remember the air dis­aster in Japan that cost 520 lives? Or how about the space shuttle, logging more miles every single day. And gee, we certainly cannot forget Pete Rose breaking Ty Cobb's record Wednesday night. 
Tom Considine 
the answer 
For better or for worse, characteristics of our media and press mirror similar charac­teristics ofour society at large. Case in point, our obsession with size and quantity, oursolid belief that numbers do not lie and that bigger numbers tell better stories. C'mon, who has the biggest and loudest stereo on your floor, I am sure you know. Who has the most cars in your neighborhood, again, I'm sure that you know. 
Question: What do many people desperately want? Answer: The biggest bank account. 
People are interested in size and quantity; it is seen in their priorities and their actions. Similarly, our society is obsessed with size, and this obsession is reflected In the news media of our day. Perhaps that is why such items as airline disasters make such extensive headlines; people are fascinated that so many passengers could die. Perhaps that Is why the space shuttle receives so much attention; people are amazed by the fact that a funny shaped metallic crate can do so much and go so far. And perhaps that's why Pete Rose's quest Is so newsworthy; people are enthralled by so many hits. 
This fascination with size reminds me of a trip that I made two years ago. I went to a state park to see an awesome 800 foot gorge. Believe me, this was quite a sight: deep drops offlat stone, dangerous slopes, even a railroad tressle that spanned this natural wonder. You should have seen the people; they were doing everything in their power to get the best view. One guy was climbing a gnarled tree; another was leaning dangerously over a fence, a third held his two year old kid over the edge. 
It seemed that everyone in that park was staring down that gorge. Everyone was trying to get that perfect view, myself included. 
Then, for some unexplained reason, I turned my head from that fascinating sight and looked behind me at a patch ofgrass about 20 feet away. There sat a four year old boy, away from everyone else; there he sat -just staring at one little, insignificant object. But I could tell that he was as enthralled by that dandelion as all the adults were by the gorge. 
It was right then and there I learned the im­portance oflittle things. 
An Englishman once remarked to me that "Everything in America is big." Well, what I think he meant was our country has a special place in its heart for the big things, for those deep gorges and big news events. And suppose a love for the big is fine in Itself. But just do not forget those dandelions and those little things. Perhaps someday you will realize that bigger is not better -only bigger. 
Tom Considine is a senior tn the College of Arts and Letters and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 


We should put our wealth into another perspective 

Just when you think you have got everyth­ing in perspective, along comes a child who innocently knocks you back into reality and forces you to rethink your ideals. Willis, an eleven year old from South Bend, had this ef­fect on me. A friend of mine, Joe, is his "Big Brother." 
Lisa Perez 
in persp_ective 
"Man, you must be rich!"  
Those were Willis' first words when he en­ 
tered the room. There wasn't anything too ex­ 
traordinary  Inside of the  room:  a  bed,  a  
television, an Atari video machine, a stereo  
with a bunch of tapesand some posterson the  
walls. Nothing there would accurately qualify  
Joe as wealthier than the middle class which  
f ~  he is. "I'm not rich, Willis," Joe said. Willis just  
r  looked at him. Later, we were  walking around campus,  
talking about basic things, trying to break the  

From the plans In the paper, I don't think the fountain will fit in. I would like something more traditional. 
Gina Mannarelli Junior LeMans 

Doonesbury 
YeAH, 13/.fT 50lJJH/fT00 YOU 
IT'5 7ClEVI5/0N. 
)tVJ\f; 60T
7HINJ< OF 7HE 5CRJPT; 
B.P. ?' PR£T7Yex­

MOVIe CJ(&{)fTS,OTIN6, J-1/JH? 
800PSIE. WHY 
{)() TE:I..&VI5/0N?I 
~ 

ice of unfamiliarity. Joe thought he had hit upon the perfect topic, sports. In the midst of this conversation, a prominent Notre Dame basketball player happened to walk by. Willis got soexcited thatJoe walked over to him and asked if he'd mind saying hello to Willis. The athlete walked over to Willis and introduced himself. Willis put his tiny hands in the large hands of the basketball player and looked up in childish awe. 
"I hope you're going to root for me this year.l'm counting on you." 
"I will." 
"Watch all the games, OK?" 
"I'll try." 
Not too impressive a conversation, but one which made Willis' · day. Afterwards, Joe teased Willis about his amazement with the athlete, and asked if he had watched any bas­ketball games last year. Willis said he had not. 
"Why not?" 
"I don't have a television." 
Surprised at his answer, it suddenly became apparent why Willis had thoughtJoe was rich. I had been looking at wealth from my perspective, while Willis, who did not own 
fi• , 


I really wasn't to impressed. liked the mall the way it was. 
JeffMorales Senior Offcampus 
half of the items in the room, judged wealth based on the things he could call his own. Compared to tliat, JOC! certainly seemed wealthy. Willis had not seemed envious; he was just making a statement which appeared factual to him. 
After getting over my initial surprise that anyone should think something a luxury when most people consider it a commodity, I thought about how lucky we are. Sure, we all vary in degrees of good fortune and we all wish we had more, but when we put our lives in focus we should realize how lucky we are. We can all watch television, wear cool clothes, buy food when the dining hall is at its worst and catch the football and basketball games when we feel like it. When we graduate we will all be in a position to make decent money and live the kind of lives we are ac­customed to. Not too much will be beyond our reach, and we probably will never lack for the necessities. We should consider these things the next time we feel a little sorry for ourselves. 
Our perspective of things should not be 
f 
Campus Comments: Do you like the fountain being constructed? 

If It gets built on time, it's going to be nice. 
Kevin Stoutennire Junior 
Keenan Hall 

IXJJN6 A "VICE" 15 A REAL F£3A771£R IN AN 
ACTl1l5 CAPTHES£ ~ &VtN IF 7H& FrU<T 15 PR£7TY .,.r-.w.-•.m 
~ 
based solely on ourselves. Instead the fact that some people want more because they do not have the necessities should be the perspective by which we judge thinwo. 
Feeling sorry for people less fortunate than we are is not enough. One twist offate and we could have been "those people." Giving some­thing to one less fortunate than yourself is a gift that will not soon be forgotten. This need not mean monetary giving; sometimes giving ofyourselfis the best gift ofall. 
The day with Willis ended with a thank you and still we had not given anything that could be considered tangible. All we'd given him was some time and attention. Saying goodbye, Joe gave Willis his phone number and told the boy to call the next time he wanted to come over. 
"I can't," Willis said. "Why not?" "I don't have a phone." Joe gave him a quarter. 
Lisa Perez ts a sophomore tn the Program ofLiberal StUdies and a regular VIewpoint ' columnist. 
I 
I 
. I 
H 
, 

It's best point Is that it will keep 
them  from  putting  a  building  
there.  
Tom Elliot  
Sophomore  
Grace Hall  


I'm not very excited about the construction, but I'm sure it will be great when it's finished. 
Laurie Dink 
Sophomore Breen-Philllps 

Garry Trudeau 
Quote of the day 
"Economists say a college education adds thousands of dollars to a man's income ­which he then spends sen­ding his son to college." 
Earl Wilson 

"ieVVP.~O_i~n_t___________________________________________M_o_n_d~ay~,_se~p-te_m_b_e_r_I_6,~1~9~B~S--p~a~g~es 

P.O. BoxQ 
Chauvinism rampant in writer's column 
near Editor: 
Although I am not a Saint Mary's student, I wa.-; appalled at the faulty reasoning and ram­pant chauvinism expressed in Erin O'Brien's Viewpoint editorial,"Dedsion to go coed at Saint Mary's is weighed." 
First, a matter ofterminology: as long as any coUegt·-aged woman continues to call herself and her peers "girls," she is inviting all those around her to treat her as such. Women are far more likely than girls to earn the respect of their peers and their superiors. 
In addition, the term "guys" is similarly degrading to men. "Guys" can be a friendly and neuter phra.-;e referring to any group of peers, male or female. The stereotyping of "guys". as "sweaty, competitive, dominant and egotistical" dating machines is offensive to both men and women alike. 
Second, O'Brien seems to confuse the pos­sibility of the college going coed with the ac­tuality of coed dorms and the subsequent abolition of parietals. A quick walk through the Notre Dame campus would reveal that C<K'ducation is not the same a.-; cohabitation. 
Third, O'Brien's hypothesis that the mere presence of "guys" on campus would make the academic integrity of the College legitimate denies the proven excellence of a Saint Mary's education. In addition, her very next paragraph on the alleged "final advantage" of having "guys everywhere" is not only insulting to both men and women, but also destroys the claim to greater academic integrity she wa.<; trying to establish. 
Perhaps if O'Brien could see beyond the chauvinist stereotypes she herself promotes in her article, she might come to understand that the real "woman's world" does not dt·pend on the mere presence or absence of men, but on the ability to perceive the in­
herent  worth, dignity,  and  equality of all  
human beings.  
Susan Barton  

Notre Dame graduate student 

Stereotype of feminism harmful to everyone 
J)ear Editor: 
I wholeheartedly agreed with Maura Man­dyck's attack on the "shameless stereotyping" in television cartoons. She is right to worry about the effects on impressionable children, "being subliminally convinced that half the population is worthless." 
But it's not necessary to get up early Satur­day morning to experience gender-oriented stereotyping · one need only look to the opening lines of Mandyck's column. Why is it necessary to begin with the disclaimer that she is not a feminist and follow with a trite and ludicrous depiction of feminists? The efforts ofsome to paint a picture offeminists as unat­tractive, humorless women, dressed in drab clothing, working tirelessly for unisex bathrooms, women in combat, the break-up of the nuclear family and the end of the American way oflife have beensadly effective. 
Webster's New World Dictionary defines feminism as "the movement to win political, economic and social equality for women." Yet feminists are often portrayed in blatantly stereotypical ways. "I'm not a feminist, but ..." Surely the goals ofpolitical, economic and so­
cia! equality are nothing to be ashamed oft 
How refreshing it would have been to read 
Mandyck's column in The Observer begin­
ning with the proclamation that she is a 
feminist, followed by the same good, 
pointedly humorous treatment of a serious 
subject. One sure way to eliminate a negative 
image is to replace it with a positive one. Ifthe 
negative stereotype of feminism persists, 
"both men and women will suffer a loss." 
A.K. Eiesland Department ofArt, Art History and Design 
Greedy administration makes seniors cynical 
DearEditor: 

When Icame here three years ago as a fresh­man, I was full of optimisim about the bright four years that were opening before me. Op­timisim that Notre Dame would win the Na­tional Championship, optimism that the Administration really cared about students, optimism that this was going to be the best four years of my life... 
Three long years later I look back at those freshman days and think of the senior's at­titudes towards ND, about their pessimism and criticism, and I thought with a freshman's optimism: They're all just too critical. Now I seefour years later that they weren't sofar off. 
Why has ND become such a depressing place to be? Because the Administration has become a purely capitalistic organization in the best tradition of Marxist doctrine. They are out to survive and prosper at any expense, especially that of the student. How can I say this, you ask? Look around you at the actions of the University and see how two faced it really is. First off, let's look at the teaching here. Many of the professors are so involved with research that they cannot properly prepare for class. This is evident especially in the engineering and science departments-­while I am not about to specifically name professors, you upperclassmen affected should know what Iam talking about. The Uni­versity is dedicated to research and the prestige and money it brings the University, NOT how it effects the poor teaching that results from not enough time to prepare for class. I'm not against progress, but when someone is paying for a class, they deserve better treatment than this. 
In addition, another instance of the Univer­sity's greediness is evident by the recent en­dowments reported received earlier in the beginning of the semester in the Observer. 'Ibis was called one of the ."largest recorded" endowments to be received by the Ad­ministration, yet the price of room and board has increased approximately 7 percent --more than the National Inflation rate--while the stu­dents and parents paying for ND can see no relief in sight. 
Consistent with the Administration's self dedication to financial security and prestige is the continued building of structures that do not better the life of the average student. Granted the LaFortune renovation is under­way in addition to the Law school addition, but look at how long it has taken tht: Ad­ministration to get around to it. And during this time what about the real needs--more living and social space. Oh--sure, new dorms are planned for sometime in the future, but they will probably take as long to get started on as has LaFortune and the Law school addi­tion. Some people will bring up the swimming pool. That will probably function like the weight room in the ACC: restricted to varsity use during the few hours students could pos­
sibly use it. And to quickly name another few sore spots, how about: the new loft policy to abolish lofts in the next four years, the health hazard of no air conditioning in the Pasquerilla's and the rector policy as ex­emplified by the 'firing' ofFather Steve at Car­roll Hall to name a few. 
Then we come to the Fountain. Why? I can think ofabsolutely no reason why it should be built. Ifthe Administration wanted to dedicate something to ND students who died in the wars, they should dedicate something that will be appreciated and used, like the LaFortune renovation, or a new dorm, not a $500,000 Stonehenge. The fountain's location doesn't even make sense. The fieldhouse mall was one of the few. crossing places on North Quad where students ran into each other and could just sit on the grass and talk, read, listen to bands, or play firsbee--but since we all know it's illegal to play on the grass the criticism is invalid anvway. 
Many ofyou out there are going to ask if you hate this place so much, why don't you leave. Simply, I cannot. Financial and other commit­ments prevent it, and if I could, I would, ex­cept that I would miss the people who make this place worthwhile. I have been told that I should accept ND as it is since many places are worse off, or no better. Ifthis is so, then we are really doomed because no body of students should have to be ruled in such an autocratic manner, and if this truly is "as good as It gets," tllen there is something very wrong with the scholastick system and the society that created it. 
My advice to you new freshmen is this: If you l:an find a better place, transfer. Ifyou are committed to four years here just as I am, then I charge you not to sit back and endure the Administration's tyranny. Revolt. Build your box fountains, hang your bedsheet protests, write your letters, and continue to protest to make the Administration feel the pressure. Only as a result of constant pressure can the University be forced to change. 
Peter Horvath Planner Hall 
Saint Mary's is great even without the boys 
DearEditor: 

I feel much pride attending and being part of a small, private, Catholic, all women's col­lege -Saint Mary's. And since I read freshman Erin O'Brien's Viewpoint article about a coed Saint Mary's, I have been trying to calm down enough to put my thoughts on paper. 
I'm not sure who "they" are that have been considering the idea ofSaint Mary's admitting "boys." I know 10 years ago it was under con­sideration to combine Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, but was decided against for various reasons. As for a coed campus, I know my friends and I have joked about it, but never with any sincerity. 
A coed college is not what I have been waiting for, nor do I get too excited at the thought of it. First, let's not assume a coed campus means a free-for-all and the · im­mediate removal of parietals. In fact it would more likely increase strict enforcement of them. Although we feel the "curse" of parie­tals, I must admit I am thankful for them many times. I feel much safer knowing I am protected from just anyone offthe street wan­dering through our halls, and it's saved me at least twice this year from kicking out my 

roommate and her boyfriend when I want to 
go to sleep. 
I think the Saint Mary's reputation of "girls here for their MRS degree" is one that follows women all over the country, both at public and private schools. I know the high place­ment and valued reputation of a Saint Mary's degree, however, far outshines the former. 
Let's look beyond the fact that there are no men enrolled in this school. That does not mean we no longer care how we look or dress. There is so much pride here -yes, in the way we dress and smell, but also In our classwork and relationships with faculty, administration, and classmates. I love sitting in a small class of about 1 5 and really getting involved in a good discussion, even when one ofthose students is a Notre Dame boy! 
I guess the presence of boys was not a priority as I was choosing a college -educa­tion was. I have found the freedom to par­ticipate in clubs, organizations and student government, and believe it or not, there is plenty of competition! And along with the 
I 
close friendships I have with girls on this 
~ 
campus, I also have them with both girls and , 
guys at Notre Dame. Admittedly it took some 
time, but I've found them worth waiting for. , 
I believe Saint Mary's College offers a very 
1 special atmosphere and excellent education, and I'm so glad I'm here! Relax, freshmen, and give it some time. Soon you will realize parie­tals are not such a big deal when weighed against the advantages ofthis community, and you can still put on a skirt. I hope I'm long gone by the time Saint Mary's goes coed. I'm a SMC chick and proud ofIt! 
jeanne Heller leMansHall 
Rape is a subject that cannot be taken lightly 
DearEditor: 
This Jetter is in response to some comments made by Kevin Flynn on an article by Andy Barlow discussing the supposed lack of campus security. I agree with Flynn that Notre Dame need not be a "Fort Knox" in terms of security. It's also unrealistic, as he points out, to compare the number ofcrimes committed on this campus to the crimes of a metropolis such as Chicago. 
But in his eagerness to defend the efforts of Notre Dame security forces, he does someth­ing that saddens me, for it is becoming com­mon: he de-humanizes the act of rape, an act which is a tragedy for society as a whole, and very traumatic to the individual. 
I call to mind the statement,"Notre Dame has had only one rape in seven years." "Only one" rape (and I don't want to ignore other crimes such as murder, theft, etc.), Is im­mediately too many times. The occurrence of rape is something that should not be used as supporting evidence to the defense of any security force, just because it's "below average" in national standard'i. 
Kevin Flynn, I want to thank you for helping to protect the well-being of all people who walk on this campus. But plea.o;e allow me to remind you that the only time rape can be a good statistic is when it does not exist at all. I'd hate to be there when that rape victim of last semester picks up the paper to read that she has been the "only" rape victim In seven years. 
Paula Miranda LewisHall 


P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219} 239-5303 
The Observer IS the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. II does not necessarily reflect the pol1cies of the adminiStration of either institution. The news ia reported as accurately and objectively as pos­Sible. Uns1gned editonals represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­tanes. letters and the lflSide Column present the views of their authors. Column space is ava1lable to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters, is encouraged. 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan News Editor ................................... Keith Harrison Jr News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ "eresa Guarino Sports Editor ........................................... Jeff Blumb Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy Viewpoint Editor .................................... Joe Murphy Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches Copy Chief .............................................. Frank Lipo 

Operations Board 
Business Manager .... ................. David Stephenitch Controller........ ..... William J. Highducheck Advertising Manager. .. .............. Jim Hagan Systems Manager... . .......... Mark B. Johnson Production Manager........ .............. John A Mennell 
Founded November3, 1966 



Accent 
Monday, September 16, 1985 -page 6 
Alumni mania on a quiet Saturday moming at ND 
I 
ribbons. These kids run around inKrisMurphy circles a lot and chase the squirrels. features writer They are the only ones on campus beside Father Hesburgh who do not t's a Saturday morning at Notre Hold it, your roomie went to drink beer on game days. They are Dame. The rising sun gleams on sleep before you did. You start to the future ofNotre Dame. the dome. Birds chirp. Squirrels get nervous and as you lie there in Let's meet a typical subway frolic. Hangovers throb. terror you hear whispers. alumni family. Sandy and Steve 
There is something different, "Wow Dad, we're so close." Ferman are from Highland Indiana. though. Something is in the air. "Yes son, isn't it incredible, a That's and hour and a half away Could it be? Yes! It's a football mor­Notre Dame student in his natural from the Notre Dame campus but ning at Notre Dame and that means habitat! Look at all the dirty clothes, they were here on Labor Day alumni. Lots ofthem. There are smell the old beer. Just think son, simply because they "love the 
many different kinds ofalumni. Knute Rockne probably slept here!" atmosphere." Sandy and Steve have Most of them went to ND and they You wlltch in disbelief as the son two children, both blond. One is in return often because it is special to pockets your toothbrush as a a stroller and the other is on roller 
them. Some of them are Subway souvenir and decide you've had skates. alums, people who never went here enough. You sit up in bed quickly. The Fermans hope that their kids but would have liked to. Then there "Dad, it's awake!" might go to Notre Dame because are those who are simply enthralled "Oh my God, nobody's gonna they grew up with the University's by this place. believe this at the office! Oh no, I'm mystique but they never made it to 
It doesn't really matter why they out offfim! Run! Run!" school here. Sandy and Steve love come, only that they do. A5 you Yes, the alumni are back and Notre Dame so much that they sleep they descend on the campus, there are more of them than ever. spent part oftheir honeymoon Nikons and baby strollers sparkling They usually walk around campus here. That's right boys and girls, 
,r in the early autumn sunshine. in groups. Male alumni wear their honeymoon. You are still asleep. Deep within hornrims and plaid pants. They take Why does Notre Dame meaJ;t so
r 
the walls ofyour dorm you lie pictures ofeverything and they slap much to these people? Why does
r
, curled in bed, blissfully unaware of a lot ofbacks. They also have great the bookstore sell so many ND the new morning. tailgaters. Female alumni wear mugs and extra-small sweatshirts? r Suddenly your door opens very khaki skirts and sunglasses. They Why do people cry at the grotto? 
quietly and feet pad across your have lots ofchildren and they are Why do millions ofdollars pour in dirty laundry which is strewn all some of the friendliest women in from alumni and non-alumni alike over the floor. Even half-asleep you America. every year? It might just be good sense that someone or something Alumni children are called "little marketing or the old rtputation. 
has entered your room. It must be Domers" by their parents. They Then again it might be something your roommate. Silly roommate. wear ND sweatshirts and ND shorts. more, something magic. Think Always breaking parietals and Most of the boys have little blond about it. Do you know anyone who 
sneaking home in the early mor­bowl cuts. The girls wear plaid spent their honeymoon at Mic­
ning. What a nutty guy. skirts and have a lot ofgreen hair higan? 
NO's rolling tympani drumnter 
r 

makes his own tunes -and fun 
r 
enthusiasm on the field. It's a col­

~ 

Colleen Clynes 
f 
features writer 
W 
ith the weighty expectations Who is this talented drummer surrounding this year's foot­who amuses fans with his half-time ball season, one tends to wonder antics? None other than seniorJohn whether the half-time show will Lagorio, who describes the purpose once again provide the season's ofhis famed position as "just basi­only entertainment. Will the Notre cally trying to make a fool out of Dame band once more prevail over myself." This he does, to the en· Fighting Irish football? thusiastic cheers of a rowdy football 
Although this question lies un­crowd. answered as ofyet, one senior is optimistic about both forms of A fourth year band member and entertainment. last year's drum co-captain, Lagorio 
has been banging drums since grade 
In a whirlwind oftwirling mallets six. For his first two years in the and spinning drums, he entertains University band he played the snare fans with one ofthe most drum, and switched over to the celebrated instruments in the Uni­prestigious position ofrolling tym­versity ofNotre Dame band -the pani player just this year. rolling tympani. "I switched partly for the time 
commitment," Lagorio remarks. "A5 a naval ROTC midshipman, I didn't have time to take over a whole section. I also wanted to have a good time this year and the tymp seemed a good way to do it." 
Having a good time is exactly what Lagorio intends to do. "I plan to do some things never done before -let's just say funny things .. . I just hope I don't kill myself," he says. 
In such a coveted position, others tend to question Lagorio's inten· tions. 
"Yes, people call me a glory hound,"he states, "I'm sure I'll see 1V cameras this year, but the im­portant thing is the spirit the tymp creates. We're all out there to have a gooq time this year. I just hap­peneo"l.O pick the front position." 
It is this front position that fans love. "I hope to increase school lective effort but sometimes hard to do everything I want to do and still be a part ofthe band." 
The rolling tympani has no music written for it, so Lagorio must im­provise not only his music but also his position on the field as well. "I have to find my own place in the band's design. I can basically go wherever I want," he remarks. 
Glory does have its price, however. At the recent welcome back picnic, Lagorio injured himself from the repeietive rubbing of the mallets against his hands. "I was 
'' I was spinning the mallets and they kept rubbing and rubbing, and when I looked down blood was dripping from my hands. Well, it's all in fun." 

-John Lagorio 
spinning the mallets and they kept rubbing and rubbing, he relates, "and when I looked down blood was dripping from my hands. Well, it's all in fun." 
This, Domers, is something to remember this season. Amid the numerous debates over Faust's success with the Irish this year, rest assured that the Notre Dame band will return in its full regalia. 
All in all, John Lagorio is optimis­tic about this season and the role he plays. "Many times I'll end up looking like a clown, but in the end, 

' spirit by being crazy and showing that's what the crowd enjoys."
John Lagorio skillfully spins his mallets and bangs away on the rolling tympani at band practice. 

I 




Sports Briefs 
The Notre Datne Open golf tournament was wqn by sophomore Rich Connelly with a 288 total, four over par. Tim Hanlon finsished second with a four-round total of 291. Norman Campbell came in third with a score of 294. Varsity golf coach con­gratulates all participants. -The Observer. 
The ND Weight and Fitness Club will hold 
it~ first first workout today from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. in the Rockne Memorial Building. -The Observer. 
Interhall officials are neededfor football and 
soccer. For more information, contact the NVA office in the ACC. ­
The Obsen'er 
Prospective SMC basketball players will have an organizational meeting on Thursday at 4:30 p.m. in Angela. All who are interested in trying out are asked to attend. -The Obser­ver 
Interhall cross-country team entries must be submitted by Wednesday to the NVA office. For more information, call 239-61 00. -The Observer 
Novice Boxing Tournatnent workouts wm begin today at 4 p.m. in the boxing room in the ACC. Anyone who wishes to learn basic boxing skills, prepare for the Bengal Bouts or just get into top condition is invited to attend. Upperclassmen with experience are invited to workout, although they will be excluded from the novice tournament. -The Obsen'er 
A kayak course is being offered by NVA on Thursdays, beginning Sept. 19. Anyone who is interested should register in ad­vance at the NVA office in the ACC. -The Observer 
Monday, September 16, 1985-page 7 
lnnertube water polo entries will be ac­
cepted until Friday at the NVA office in the ACC. -The Obsen'er 
A karate course is being offered by NVA on Mondays and Wednesdays beginning Sept. 23. Anyone who is interested should contact the NVA office for more information. -The Observer 
An ultimate frisbee tournament is being 
sponsored by NVA. The deadline for submitting 1 0-player rosters is Monday, Sept. 24, in the NVA office. For more information, call 239­61 00. -The Observer 
The Domer Runs are coming on Saturday, 
Oct. 5. The deadline for entries for the three-and six-mile events is Friday, Sept. 27, in the NVA office in the ACC. For more information, call239-6100.-The Observer 
'fhe Weight room on the third floor of the Rockne Memorial Building is open Monday through Friday from 3:15p.m. to 
10:30 p.m. and Saturday and Sunday from noon to 5:30 p.m. -The Observer 
More NVA informationis available by calling 239­61 00 or by stopping by the NVA office in the ACC. -The Observer 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor ofLafortune. Briefs should be submitted on the forms available at the office, and every brief must include the phone number ofthe person submitting it. -The Observer 
Dolphins, 49ers recover to gain wins 
Aslloclated PrcM 
Dan Marino won over the fans while winning the game that kept alive Coach Don Simla's home opener streak as Miami defeated the Indianapolis Colts 30-13 yesterday. 
Marino, ignoring his first Orange Bowl boos, passed for 329 yards and two touchdowns, hitting on 29 of 48 passess. 
"I was not worried about the crowd reaction," said the third-year quarterback, who turned 24 yester­day. "I just go out and try to do my job the best I can." Marino missed five weeks of the preseason because ofa contract dispute. 
Marino, who led Miami to the Super Bowl last season, was booed when he first trotted onto the field, and again when his first pass was be­hind Mark Duper and fell incom­plete. But he connected on the next two attempts and the ';3,693 fans were back on his side. 
San Francisco, the defending Super Bowl champion, .also turned boos into cheers, as Roger Craig's 62-yard touchdown run highlighted a 3'i-point, second-half which carried the 49ers over the Atlanta by a score of 3'i-16. 

1be Ohsat•t•r Notre Dame otfin·. hKaled on tlw lhird floor of l.at·ortum· Student Ct·nter. acn·pts dassifit·d adn·rt"in!( from') a.m. until ·• p.m.. Monda) through Friday. J'he Ohsert•er Saint Mar)·, vtfin:. lotatt·d on lht· third floor of ltag!(ar Collt:!(l" Ccntt·r. accepts da"itkds from 1.!..~0 p rn until .~ p m . \1on· day thou!(h Friday lkadlinc 1m ncxt·da\ dassilinh is .~ p.111. All l'la"ifinh must he prepaid. t"ither in person or h\· rnail <.har!(t'" I 0 n·nls pcr fin·t·harat··


Classifieds 
ters per dav. 
IIUdent efficiency S 125.and uti~ti• near  U.l. -IOVIET ARMS TALKI  HELP!IMY FAMILY IS BEING HELD BY  DAVID and TOM... WELCOME TO N.D.  
NOTICES  N.D. 2558505; 2594943 Fumilhed Hou" ClaM to Campus -6 bdrm, 2 bathe Cell 277-3461  FOR SALE  COLLAPIE OVER N.D. FOODALL TIX Tomorrow/a headhnea?? An ufl/y thought but it COULD happen. I know you've h-d it many Umea before, end you  FORMER WEST POINT MAN. I NEED AS MANY ARMY TICKETS AS PQS­SIBLE.IF YOU HAVE ARMY GA'S CAlL 1254 AND FREE MY FAMILY!  Thanklllor the vleit. I LOVE YOU BOTH. With love and lhoughta of obnoxiou• neea...JA  - 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 TYPING CAU. CHilli 214-tWl  LUXURY TOWNHOUIE available to lhlll'e with one or two roommal•. prelerllbly female. VERY REASONABLE. Call 277-2364  The Computing Cenler hu a small num­ber ol new and uaed hardwlll'e and eoltwwe items lor Mle at ridiculous pncea.PINM -Kelty Havana or Mart< Johnaon lor detaila.  probably won't believe thla, but read on. A vety crucial, VII)' important member of the Soviet Arma Telke delegation hea. on a whim, added a VII)' unuauel, but ob­vioully enNghtaned, a~pule~on to hla el­ need 2-3 tix lor mich. at. call Pa137711 ............................. ......................... need MSU tix $$celt John at 1845  TO MY LITTLE CHIQUITA. MARIA SUSANO LUISA GARCIA HERNANDEZ: HAPPY BIRTHDAY. YOU LUSH I FROM YOUR LUNCHTIME FRIEND AND FEL­LOW ATHLETE  
ready atawering Nat of demanda. Mr. X,  HELP ME-NEED 1-2 STUD. OR GA TIX  
Wordpr~ng  COMPUTER FOR SALE COMMODORE  u  we w/1 eel him, haa hla Hltle red heart  FOR  MSU  CALL  BIG  TOM  1670  
Call Dolor• 277-8045  IEEKINO FEMALE ROOMMATE AT NOniE DAilE APTI. CLOSE TO CAIIPUI, INEXPENIIVE. CALL lllc­ 64K-keybolll'd, diak drive,printer Price Negotiml.----celt Meg at 2764.  aer on two. yea two, Michigan Stale ~ck­,.,.. Our own "nervea of,_.. deleQ.eUon perauaded him to accept either GA·a or  HAVEARMY YOU'RE GOING TO DIE aomeday. bul  Thank you St.Judelor over thrM lavoura AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL OR­ 
EXPERT  TYPING  SERVICE.  CALL  HELEAT2113-3710.  FOR SALE: AKAI HX-A3X TAPE DECK  atudent Ux. Mr. X Ia vii)' adamant. end in  right now I need 2 MSU GA'I. II you can  GANIZATIONAL  MEETING  TUES.  
MRS. COKER, 233-7008 _,typl,. • ... ancn., :IU-4011 • you LOST/FOUND I STOLEN: Umb<ela !rom South Dln1ng Hall batwMn 11:23 and 12:011 on Monday the lith. 11 ia -lyldentilllble,and ill­you on campua with 11••.. you don't Wllnt  2 FMS NEED 3RD $100 MOlt UTIL 233­7641 COMFORTABLE 3 BEDROOM HOUSE 1 3/4 MILES FROM N.D. HAS ROOM FOR ONE MORE GRAD STUDENT. NON-SMOKING AND QUIET. $140 MONTH. PLUS UTIL. CALL 232-8327, EARLY OR LATE WANTED  W/DBX ALMOST NEW. $120 OR BEST OFFER. CALL GEORGE AT 1554 TICKETS I need 2 and/or 4 GA'slor Michigan Stale u soon u pouible. Call Mike 111806 UNCLE IAII WANTI YOUUI To Give Up lome Army Q.A."e  a poe/lion to make nutythif!QI happen. If you want to play a key role in the aecurlty and atabiHty of our 20th century world. u we know it, piHie. at thil vii)' moment. contact Specie/ Agenra Bob or Den 11 pr/oirlty code I 023. Thia paeudo­tnansmiulon wiN ae/1-dntruct. ID-9-B-7­6-5-.... I NEED 1 USC GA/STU TICKET. WfU TRADE MSU GNI$$$. CALL ALAN 1419 I NEED USC TIX. WILL PAY BIG $$$. PAUL 1419  help. call Rob 11288-4 760. PERSONALS Learning ialinding out whal you already know. Doing ia demonetrating that you know it. Teaching ia reminding otheralhal they know tuat 11-u you. You lll'e all learn.,., doerl.leach.,.. -Richlll'd Bach. /Wuliona  SEPT. 17 7:30 pm CENTER FOR SO­CIAL CONCERNS . Mucl< Fich1gan 1a l1ne but whalll we play Flonda State? Loolung lor Ind., SMC lroah I met on Daytona beach in Apnl. Tall. Blonde Pat 213 Stanford Happy alrthdly to lionlea lmlthII ltop by 208 ~AMI or liVe hw I ...114toQ to wlah hw 1 happy day. LUKE CAN I BORROW YOUR WHITE  
lo know the r•t Return It lo tha Ad Build­Ing Loat and Found. or Holy Croea Hall. Save youraelt phye.caland mental pain.  Wllnted 2 gu 10 any home gam• call 272-34111  Be All You Can Be And Clllt Sammy at 2077 or 2078 (We offer cuh. e•perience. and travel op­portunities.)  HELP! NEED MICH. ST. TICKETS BAD; CALL JOHN 1601  OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N.. 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  SHORTS-HA! BUT WHAT IS SEPT. 20? YOU ARE MY PICTURE AND I HATE YOU!  
LOST DjAMOND ENGAGEMENT RING.  I need 5 Mich St GAa. Call Rob IIX1245.  
VERY ,MPORTANT. PLEASE CON­TACT ALICE AT 232-60811 IF FOUND. LOST: Gold/llllv• Imitation Rot.. Wlllch. toet Sat. niQht(the 7th) 11 •lh• Campua vi-. St.Louia St.. or CHI. II wu a very ~Pedal gll1, PLEASE HELP ME OUT! 11-d oH•ed. piNM call Jim at 36411 (4111Morri-y). THANKS!!! LOST: BENNETTON RUGBY SHIRT, Blue and While. Laundry tag with no. tOtn and 1w0 amall ataona on front. 11 lound piNM celt Riel< It 272-8588.  Prof. -kll co-ed to babye.t toddler one nile a""""'· 233-1873 al1er 6 p.m. NAUGLES n-delivery people lor N.D. & S.M.C. Car required. Apply in peraon. FEMALE ROOMMATE TO SHARE FUUY FUIINISHED LUXURY APT. AT WIUIAMSBURG ON THE LAKE. QUIET COMPLEX CLOSE TO CAMPUS. NON­SMOKERS ONLY, CALL 2511-5295 FOR MORE INFO. Need ride to Dayton any weekend. Call Maria4174.  ~···Niieo ..·:rwo...aA:s..·:ro...rHe..."Msu GAME.CAU 2752 AFTER 5:00 PM I DESPEAATEL Y NEED MANY MSU TICKETS CAU MIKE 1476 HELP I need 1.2. or 3 GA lor Michigan St. Call Mike 1454. PLEASE, I'M DESPERATE! IT'S MY BIRTHDAY ON THE 21at-SEU ME 6 MICH. ST. G.A."S AND YOU'U BE INVITED TO THE PARTY!! PLEASE  PLEASE HELPIII I NEED 4 MSU G.A."1 283-1940 Deaperately aMking 2 GA'alor the ARMY game (Oct.19). Willing to pay big buckll. Call Trina 4231 DESPERATELY NEED 1 MICHIGAN STATE TICKET. MICHEUIE 284-4288. NEED 3 USC OR 4 MISS. GA'S FOR CUTE IRISH PRIESTS WIU PAY ANY  ODIN II COlliNG Ill The entire city of Piqua, Ohio Ia comif!Q out to IH ND play Michigan State. They are willing to trade In their whole collec­Uon of Slim Whitman elbuma to buy Uck­er.. Plelle help them. It's nol otren theae people get out of Ohio. Call Amy at239-5303 or 272-~19. ST. Mary'a Clothing Drive lor St. Vincent dePaul Seplember 15 -October 6 S.. t>ox•eachdorm  JOHN-THANK YOU FOR FINDING ANOTHER WAY TO TALK TO ME. I DID ENJOY IT-IT'S GOOD TO KNOW THAT IN THIS CONSTANTLY CHANGING WORLD ONE THING REMAINS THE SAMEICIU LIFE IS ONE BIG RATIONALIZATION! ALL MEN ARE CADS-IT'S JUST THAT SOME DISGUISE IT BETTER THAN OT­HERS  
FOUND FOUND FOUND: A pak o1 cool  CALL ANNE 284-5048  PRICE! CALL MARY 284-5442  They wouldn't print whit-would aay  
ahadll under lrH In front of Holy Crou  MSU FACULTY BRAT NEEDS 4 GA'S  llbout--1  
on Sunday. Call to Identify: 232-5670.  TO  MICHIGAN  STATE  GAME  TO  WHAT  DO  YOU  WANT  FOR  YOUR  NEED 3 GA TIX TO ANY HOME GAME  THANKYOU ST. JUDE  
.................................................  SETTLE  FAMILY  FEUD.  WILL  PAY  II.I.U. TICKET? I'll WIWNG TO IIEET  CALL STEPH 3534  
REWAAD!I!II LOST TIGER'S EYE and  GOOD $$. CALL ELIZABETH X4570.  ANY  OFFER.  I  NEED  3  TlCKETI­ MARKETING CLUB  ATTENTION VOTE TRICIA FLOOD SMC  
GOLD BEADED BRACELET! OF GREAT  ITUD/G.A.  CALL  STEVE  33111-LET  Drop in anytime lo room 607 P.E. or the  FROSH COUNCIL SEPT 18  
SENTIMENTAL  VALUE  TO  MEIIII  IF  Domino'a Pizza h11 openinge for part  liE TWY  TO  GET  YOU  WHAT  YOU  Need 5 USC GA'o. Pay top dollar. Call  Marketing Department and pay your $5  
FOUND. PLEASE CALL STEPHANIE AT  lime dati VII)' persona. Mutt be at lellt 18  WANT IN EXCHANGE.  Jody 2311-7389 or 272-5289.  memberahip lee.  .)eadline: Seplember  TODAY IS JENNIFER KIUIANS B'DAYI  
1327 THANKS'!  y~ old. own car. and have valid ln­ 16  Allo.  watch  tor  eigne  regarding  SO WHY NOT CALL HER AND WISH  
aurance. Hourly wage plua commiAion.  NEED TICKETS TO NO VS USC GAME  NEED 3 USC GA'o & 2Student l'a.Call  general mMiing!  HER A GOOD ONE. ALL YOU CUTE  
LOST Gold Seiko Ou111Z Watch. Maybe  Apply In p.,.on at 816 Portage Ave. or  CALL 277 4324 EVENINGS BETWEEN  kevin at t824  DOMERSI 4183.  
around ot In Nllullnd Science Hilt. Value meally Mntimenlll.PLEASE call Tom 11 3810. (1122Gtace) REWARD. Loat · lealher batt on Stepan Court• on Friday night. PI-call1534 LOST: A GOLD CHAIN ON THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 12. GREAT SENTIMEN·  1835 South Bend Ave. BOYS GYMNASTICS INSTRUCTOR NEEDED AT SOUTH BEND YMCA FOR THURSDAY 3:30 TO 4:30 P.M. CON­TACT MIKE SMORIN AT 287-1861 OR 288-5459. WANTED:UPPERCLASSMEN TO  6:00& 11:00 Big $$$lor 2 MSU GA'a. Call Rich at 283­3202 Need 2 Mich Sttlx X1177 Larry I NEED TIXS FOR MICH ST & PURDUE.272-6306  I WIU PAY BIG BUCKS FOR 3 ARMY GA'S OR 4 LSU GA'S CALL STEVE AT 1733 OR 1757 STUDENT SEASON TICKET BOOK FOR SALE CALL RAY 1581  To whoever atole my aporta lecllon Wed­needay at Cavanaugh, May your favorite beaeball team languish in IIIII place lor the r•t ol your life. By the way. the leal person who atole my 1port1 aeclion wu a Chicago Cube fan, and you know whal happened to them .... Repent before it Ia loolate.  HAPPY BIRTHDAY MOOOOSE! WE LOVE YOUI LOVE GUMBY.POKEY .AND MOOSE 2 AND 3. MARE.HAPPY BIRTHDAY.YOU'RE NOW THE BIG 20.GET READY FOR THE 20 HITS AND SHOTS PLUS ONE.ALSO,MEL WANTS YOU  
TAL VALUE PLEASE CALL PAT AT 4364 IF YOU KNOW WHERE IT IS.  BABYSIT 3MTH OLD INFANT IN MY HOME KNOLL WOOD AREA. 15-20 HAS/WEEK. CALL FOR INTERVIEW: 277-5450.  NEED 4 GA'S FOR MICH. STATE. CALL 284-4408  MOM IS DYING! WANTS TO SEE ONE LAST NO GAME CALL 1046 BEFORE TOO LATE  Electrolyaia DermatOIOQIIt approved Grad.Kree N.Y. Sterilized. latnt equip­ment.atudent ratn Ladin only. Day-eve.  TONIGHT.COME.COME COME.WHAT ABOUT MR.N.Y.?LOOK OUT FOR THE KLINGON HUNTERS THEY'RE AFTER YOU. HAVE A GOOD ONE.LOVE, 801.  
FOR RENT  JOBS$JOBS$JOBSSJOBS PART-TIME. ON CAMPUS NEED PHONE CALLERS TO CAlL SMC ALUMNAE FOR  2 MICH. ST GA'S FOR SALE. BEST OF­FER. PETER 277-8285,AFTER 6 PM. DESPERATELY SEEKING TICKETS! I  I need M1ch Sl. li• call Stan 2341 NEED 7 MSU TIX. 284-4048  291-9613 PRISCILLA KARL HAD A BIRTHDAY ON SUNDAY-CALL AND WISH HER A  WOZ. JOSIE. TOMAS!>. SPINELESS. AND WISHY· WASHY TO ONE OF THE STALLIONS:WHERE  
FUNDRAISING  CAMPAIGN.  SEE  need 4 or 5 G.A. ·a and 1 otudent ticket lor  HAPPY BELA TED BIRTHDAY!! BETTER  HAVE YOU BEEN HIDING OUT?HEARD  
ROOMMATE  WANTED  IRISH  HIUS  MARTHA HEWITT IN ROOM 303. HCC.  Mich. Stale. Pleue help me! CALL RON  2 118U TICKETS You gol em. I need 'em.  LATE  THAN  NEVER.  LOVE,  YOUR  THE PARTY WAS GREAT (SOME KIND  
APT FURNISHED. CAU 291-88115, JIM  NEED CLERICAL HELP. TOOl!  3558 OR 2311-7757  Will pay$. Call Mike at 3347. STU or GA.  FRIENDS HER PHONE IS: 284-5312.  OF "GIRLFRIEND",HUH?).  

..... ----~-~­
-~--------------------------------------------------~-~­
Monday, September 16, 1985 -page 8 ~· 
Baseball Standings 

AMERICAN LEAGUE  NAnONAL LEAGUE  
CHICAGO-Cesar Cedeno went 5­Eutin 7 1-3 innings. 1Jesse Orosco hit a three-run homer in the first in­ Eaat  
w  L  Pet.  011  w  L  Pet.  011 
for-5 and drove in four runs, two finished up for his 16th save. ning and Doug DeCinces homered Toronto  91  52  .636  St.louis  86  55  .610  
with a homer, and Danny Cox won Montreal starter John Dopson, 0­for two runs in a six-run eighth to New York  86  56  .606  4.5  New York  86  56  .606  .5  
Baltimorehis 16th game yesterday as the St.  75  66  .532  15  Montreal  76  66  .535  10.5 
2, got only two outs in the first in­help the California Angels to a 12-4 Detroit  73  69  .514  17.5  Philadelphia  69  71  .493  16.5  
Louis Cardinals beat the Chicago ning before leaving. victory yesterday over the Texas Boat on  71  72  .497  20  Chicago  66  75  .468  20  
MilwaukeeCubs 5-1. Rangers.  62  79  .440  28  Pittsburgh  47  92  .338  38  
Cleveland  52  93  .359  40  
The victory kept the Cardinals Blue Jays 8, Yankees 5 The Angels had 14 hits and 1 1  Waet  w..t  
one-half game ahead of New York in Kansas City NEW YORK -The Toronto Blue walks off five Texas pitchers.  82  60  .5n  loa Angeles  84  58  .592  
California  80  63  .559  2.5  Cincinnati  75  66  .532  8.5 
the National League East. The Mets Jays, keyed by Cliff Johnson's two­Kirk McCaskill, 10-11, gave up Chicago  73  69  .514  9  Houston  72  70  .507  12  
beat Montreal 6-2 yesterday. run single, kayoed New York with a three runs in 6 I-3 innings and was Oakland  70  74  .486  13  San Diego  71  71  .500  13  
SeaHieRookie left-hander Steve Engel, 1­ 66  76  .465  16  Atlanta  60  82  .423  24 
six-run third inning yesterday and replaced by Stuart Cliburn, who Minnesota  65  79  .451  18  San Francisco  56  86  .394  28  
5, was the loser. opened a 4 1/2-game lead in the pitched the final 2 2-3 innings to Texas  52  90  .366  30  
Cox, 16-9, gave up five hits over American League East by beating the earn his sixth save this season. Yaeterday'a A•utta  Y•terday'a A•utta  
seven innings. Todd Worrell Yankees 8-5. Texas starter Jose Guzman, 0-2, Toronto 8, New York 5  New York 6. Montreal 2  
finished up with two innings of hit­The Blue Jays pounded five New Chicago 6, Seattle 3 pitched the ·first five innings, allow­ Pittaburgh 5, Philadelphia 4  
california 12, Texas 4 less relief. York pitchers for I 4 hits.  Adanta 4, San Francisco 1 
ing five runs on six hits and five Oakland 4-2, Kansas City 2-7  Cincinnati 10. loa Angeles 6  
Doyle Alexander, 16-8, pitched 7 walks. Boston 4, Milwaukee 2  St. louis 5, Chicago 1  
Minnesota 5, Cleveland 2 Mets 6, Expos 2 1-3 innings and was charged with  Houoton 2, San Diego 1  
Detroit 4, Baltimore 1  

The Observer Blue Jays beat Yanks 
St. Louis stays on top in N .L~ East 
.AslocJakd Press 
MONTREAL -Danny Heep hit a three-run homer in the first inning, Mookie Wilson homered and doubled twice and HowardJohnson added a solo home run yesterday, leading the New York Mets over the Montreal Expos 6-2. 
Irish 
continued/rom page 12 
cepted by Doug Mallory to end Notre Dame's chances. 
The lack of offensive production by the Irish had many people, in­cluding Wolverine coach Bo Schem­
. bechler, questioning Notre Dame's play selection, especially early in the game. On the nine plays of their first three possessions inside the Mic­higan 20-yard line, the Irish did not pass once. All three of those series resulted in field goals. "I was surprised that they ran so much," noted Schembechler. "People think they can run the ball on us, but I don't know why." That was a question that Beuer­lein also had difficulty answering. "It was frustrating, and a lot of guys didn't understand it," said the Irish quarterback of the abundance of run calls. "But the coaches have been around a lot longer than we have, and th'ey have a philosophy they want to stick with. We had no trouble getting down the field and then we thought we could hit the run. Obviously the coaches thought we could pound it in on the ground." Beuerlein threw only seven 
~ANDDRIVWG 
CAN Kl1 A FREND5HII 
Canyouafford to gamble.with the LSAT, GMAT, GRE,orMCAl? 
Probabiy not. Great grades 
alone may not be enough to 
impress the grad school of 
your choice. 
Scores play a part. And 
thaf~ how Stanley H. Kaplan 
can help. 
The Kaplan course teaches 
test-taking techniques, reviews 
course suQjects, and increases 
the odds that you'll do the best 
you cando. 
So if you've been out of 
school for a while and need a 
refresher, or even ifyou're fresh 
out ofcollege, do what over 1 
million students have done. !ake Kaplan. Why take l
a chance with your career? 
KAPLAN 
~;rANLEY H. KAPlAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD 
The worlds leading 
test prep organization. 
SOUTH BEND AREA 
Stanley H. Kaplan Ed. Ctr. 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. 
South Bend, Indiana 46637 
(219)'272·4135 

,Ron Darling, 16-5, won his.sixth straight decision, allowing five hits 
two runs. He walked five batters and struck out four. 
Gary Lavelle relieved during New York's three-run eighth inning. Tom Henke got the last two outs. 
The Blue Jays jumped on Ed Whit­son, 10-8, in the third. 
Angels 12, Rangers 4 
ANAHEIM, Calif. -Reggie Jackson 
A's 4-2, Royals 2-7 

OAKLAND, Calif. -George Brett hit a three-run homer and Bud Black threw a four-hitter to help the Kansas City Royals beat the Oakland A's 7-2 and salvage a split of their yesterday doubleheader. 

passes in the first half, and did not once again be utilized in Notre attempt a pass inside the Michigan Dame Stadium ... 20 until the game's final drive. 
Saturday'a O.me

The end result was a defeat, the 
Notre Dame 3 6 3 0 12 
second year in a row that the Irish Michigan 0 3 14 3 -20 Scoring
have dropped their opening game in 
NO ~ FG Carney 34 less-than-impressive fashion. NO~ FG Carney 31 MICH -FG GiHete 21
"We just have to do a character 
NO~ FG Carney 47 reevaluation, come out and play har­MICH ~ Harbaugh 10 run (GiHette kick) 
NO -FG Carney 25 MICH ~ White 3 run (GiMetta kick) 
der and cut down on mistakes," of­
fered tailback Allen Pinkett, who 
MICH ~ FG Gillette 23 
was "held" to 89 yards on 22 carries. 
Fi111tdowns
"There were some crucial mistakes 
Rushing attempts made. All four years I've been here Net Yards Ruohing Net Yards P...,ing
this situation has come up." 
P-camp-attemptedIfit comes up again next weekend Had intercepted 
when Michigan State comes to town, 
Total NetYIII'ds Fumblee-loat
then it could be a long season for the 
PanaltiH-ylll'ds Irish. Punta-average Individual LMdara
EXTRA POINTS -The television 
NO IIICH 15 21 39 52 146 261 160 74 11-23 7-17 
1 0 
306 335 1-1 2-2 '3-33 2-13 
!H2 3-38 
RUSHING-Notre Dame: Pinkett22-94; Bauerlein situation for this Saturday will most 9-23; Stems 5-15; Jefferoon 2-7; Brown 1-7; Mic­higan: Morrie 23-121; Harbaugh 9-68; Penyman 9­
likely go as follows:ABC will televise 
28; Wilcher4-18; White 6-16; C.mpbeiiHO;the Michigan-South Carolina game PASSING-Notre Dame: Bauerlein 11-23-1, 160; 
nationally in the afternoon, while 
Michigan: Harbaugh 7-17-Q, 74; RECEIVING~ Notre Dame: W.-d 2-37; Brown 2-32;
the Notre Dame-Michigan State 
Pinkett 2-29; Cuaack 1-19; William111·15; Rehder 1­game figures to be picked up by 14; Eaaon 1-11; Stam111-3; Michigan: Morris 3-24; Johnoon 1-17; White 1-15; Jokioch 1-11; Penyman
ESPN for a live night telecast, 1-7;meaning that temporary lights will Attendance-105,523 
~~~~~..-..~........_~~~~~~~~~~ 
. t 
t t COUNSELINE t 
t All you do is dial 239-7793 and ask for the 
t 
name or number of the tape you wish to hear. 
t
f Below-is the list of tapes offered. COUNSELINE f is a confidential telephone service that offers t t professionally taped materials covering a variety tf of student concerns. 
t t NEW HOURS: 4-12 p.m-MON -FRI t 
t t 
t nue t 
1 Friendahip tuuatn& 3 'type• of Inti.Ucy 
4 Phydcal lntiaacy 6 ElqJuuina •sat:iv• Thouaht• and Feelinp 7 Dealins with Conatructive Cr.itici• 
t t 
t t
8 Dl:•linl with An1er 9 Underatandin& J'ealOVAY and How to "Deal With It 10 How te Say "Jio"
t t
16 BecOMin& Open to Othen 18 Datinl Skilh 20 Feaale Homoaexualtty
t t 
21 Male IIO!DD&exuality .30 Anxiety and Ponibl.ll Ways to Cope With It 
32 How to Deal with Lonelinen 33 HQw to Handle Fears 34 lnc\·eaainJ Self-Awareness 
t f 
t t
35 Boildin& Self-E•teem and Confidence 37 Relaxation Exerchel 38 Copin& with Stress
t t
39 Feaale Sex Role--Chanaes and Stresses 40 Hale Sex Roh--chanaea and Stresses 44 Learnin& to Accept Younelf
t f 
so Underotanding Eating Dlaorden 51 
Undentanding Anexorta 
t t
52 
Undentancllns Bultmla 
t 
61 
What ia. ThM"apy 8nd How to Use It 70 
t
Infatuation or Love? 
t 
83 t
How to Cope with a Broken Relationship84 
Death and DyiRB 85 
Underaiandins Grief 
t 
90 f
Helpins a Friend t60 
Early Sisna of an a'!.cohol Problem 161 
Responsible Decisions about Drinkin& 
t 
402 t
Self Asaertiveneu 412 
Exa~nplea of Cont~act Bui.ldins 
t 431 t
What is Depression 432 
How to Deal witt) Depression433 
Depression as a Lifl!style 
t 
478 tlecomine; lndep!f1dent from Parenis 
479 
Dealins with Alcoholic Parents 
t' 491 t 
Suicidal Criaia 492 
ReeosniziDJ Suigdal Pounti.als in Others 
493 
Helpins Soateone in a Suicidal Crisis" 
t COUNSEUNE is a completely anonymous t service offered by the counseling and psychol­
t t 
ogicaJ services center, UniVersity of Notre Dame.
t t
For further information or assistance, call
t 239-7336 t 

The Observer 

Monday, September 16, 1985-page 9 -. 
Irish get third in volleyball tourney 
By CHRIS STARKEY Coming off losses to Kentucky Notre Dame will get another Sports Writer and Ohio State, Coach Art Lambert chance at the Hoosiers when the was encouraged with his team's per­Irish play host to Indiana on Tues­
The Notre Dame women's vol­formance in Indianapolis. day, November 5. leyball team got its first win under its Lambert also praised the play of
"Overall, we played pretty well in 
belt this weekend at the Hoosier freshman setter Whitney Shewman. 
finishing third," he said. "I did feel, 
Classic in Indianapolis, and settled "She's a youngster who really had 
however, that we had a really good
for third place in the four-team an exceptional match against But­
chance to take them both. The op­
tournament. ler," he commented.
portunities were there in that first 
Notre Dame's next test is tomor·

match, but we failed to capitalize."
The Irish defeated Butler in the row at Bowling Green. Lambert is
Lambert felt that the youth of his 
consolation match, 1 5-13, 13-1 5, wary of the Falcons.
team was still a factor. 
15-1, 15-5 on Saturday, after falling "They're an unknown quantity," to Indiana, 15-12, 15-5, 15-13 on "We're coming around, though. he said. "They've changed a lot since Friday. Notre Dame did not face Had this game (Indiana) been in the the last time we faced them. We'll be Purdue, the fourth team in the middle of the season, I think we ready. Slowly but surely we're com­tournament. would have taken them." ing together as a team." 
..........-­

........,_ Line 
..,., ~/Pece la:lool continuedfrom page 12 
Notre Dame rJO/Ieyba/1 players jill Sugllch (left), Gretchen We went light in practice last week Krauss and their teammates finished third in the Hoosier Classic because of the injuries, but we may tournament this weekend, defeating Butler but losing to Indiana. just have to work on the trenches all For more the tournament, see Chris Starkey's story at right. the time this week. 

gaining weight. But my game turned into something else. A way of life. Bulimia had taken over. Making me feel guilty. Alone. And out of control. 
One phone call helped me begin to change all that. When I con­tacted HOPE, I discovered a spe­cial program designed by Memorial Hospital of South Bend that helps people like me who have eating dis­orders. By the end of the program I was finally feeling better about myself-finally feeling like I was in control. 
If you or someone you know has an eating disorder, call284-7151. And discover how HOPE can help. 

HOPE 
Healthy Options for Problem Eaters An all1liate of Mernonal Hosp1tal ol South Bend m 

615 North Michigan • South Bend, IN 46601 
Schembechler, meanwhile, feels No doubt, this loss will be tough that his line's fine play will be a to handle for the prideful players In .springboard to even better things the Irish trenches. A group so used for his team . to success In their endeavors usually 
"Having success against Notre will not accept defeat lightly. Dame will help our line," said the 
On Saturday, though, the Wol­Michigan mentor, now in his 17th verines were abh! to upset the Irish season at the Wolverine helm. "We by surprising them at the line.

don't really have the size, but we have the quickness. We gave Notre "I didn't think we'd be able to run Dame problems by changing align­as well as we did," said Schem­ments on the line. Our guys were bechler. pretty tough to handle." And that was the bottom line. 
• Lin Taylor Enterprises 

$1--------------$1
I WORD PROCESSING SERVICE I I I $1 OFF FIRST JOB I I 
1 Call after 5:30 1 
-$1 ______________256·2108 $1­

RENT BY SEMESTER 
Color TV Microwave Ovens $70/semester $50Isemester 
Color City 259-7661 •

• Social Concerns Film Series -presents-• • •••• 
•

••••••••• ••• • SILKWOOD ••••
STARRING 

Meryl streep, Kurt Russell and Cher 
• Tonight and Tuesday, Sept. 16 and 17 • : Engineering Aud. 7:00 and 9:30, $1.00 : 
• 


.SOUTHERN METHODIST UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW 
Professor Regis W. Campfield, BBA, Notre Dame; LL.B., University of Virginia; Chairman of the Notre Dame Estate Planning Institute, will be on campus 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17 
from 7 to 9 p.m. in Room 208 of O'Shaughnessy Hall to talk with students about admission and financial auis­tance. All interested students are welcome to meet 

The Observer Monday, September 16, 1985-page 10 
N.D. soccer team loses two over the weekend; record drops to 1-5 
The Notre Dame soccer team lost two games over the weekend to drop to 1-S on the season. 
The Irish lost yesterday at Evansville, 4-2, in overtime. Friday night, Notre Dame fell to Wisconsin­Madison, 2-1, on Cartier Field. 
In yesterday's contest, Rob Schoenstein scored two goals in the first overtime period to nullify an Irish comeback and give Evansville the victory. 
The Purple Aces scored two goals in the first three minutes ofthe con­test to lead the Irish. Notre Dame freshman Randy Morris put in the first Irish goal eight minutes into the match. 
With just two minutes remaining in the game, Irish freshman Joe Sternberg tied the score with an as­sist from junior Marvin Lett. 
Notre Dame goalkeeper Hugh Breslin made four saves in the match. 
Evansville is ranked eighth in the nation with an 8-0 record. 
In Friday's game, the Irish led first when freshmanjohn Guignon took a loose ball in front of the goal and headed it home at 11:11. 
The Badgers came back with a goal at 31 :48 to tie the score. Andy Rectenwal beat Breslin on a penalty kick for the goal. The kick was awarded when Notre Dame defen­seman Stuart MacDonald used his hands to save a shot that was speed­ing toward the unguarded Irish goal. 
The Badgers broke the tie at 63:52, when Brad Hickey scored off a pass form Rectenwal on the left wing. 
Each team took 15 shots on goal in the contest. Breslin made seven saves for the Irish. Gerard Averill turned eight shots away from the Wisconsin-Madison goal. 
The Irish 'will play host to Mic­higan State at 7:30 p.m. Friday on Cartier Field. 
Saint Mary's volleyball team takes part in nine-team Illinois tourney 
ByJILL SARBENOFF 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's varsity volleyball team opened its season Friday, par­ticipating in a tournament in Elmhurst, Ill. The highlight of the weekend came when the Belles defeated the number-one seed, Elmhurst College, in two games in the opening match. 
After the exciting first match, the team moved on in pool play to take on Augustana College. Nine teams were in the tournament and they were divided into various pools. 
Saint Mary's lost to Augustana, however, in the second match of round one. 
In round two, the Belles defeated Aurora College but lost to Illinois Benedictine. This put Saint Mary's in the consolation bracket with the fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth and ninth seeds. 
On Saturday morning, the team lost to Augustana again in rmee games and also lost to Carroll Col­lege in three games. With these two losses, the Belles finished the tour­ney in ninth place. 
Throughout the tournament, however, there were some good ef-
I

Irish field hockey team opens its 
I 

= ~ 
...
season by winning one, losing one 
fl) 
ByTERRY LYNCH 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame field hockey team opened up its 1985 season this weekend by splitting Its first two games against Ball State and Mic­higan. 
The Irish opened at home Friday with a crushing 6-1 defeat at the handsofa powerful and efficient Ball State team. Ball State, ranked 20 in the preseason poll and probably the toughest opponent the Irish will face this season, proved itself equal to the· advance billing by virtually dominating play throughout the entire game. 
"You can't take a thing away from them,"said Head Coach Jill Linden­feld after the defeat. "Ball State is an outstanding team. They scored all nice goals, used the right side of the field well, and their teamwork was good." 
The game began with the ap­pearance ofbeing a dose match, but eventually Ball State kept the ball in the Irish end long enough to score 11 minutes into the first half on a goal byJune Lenbar. Lenbar went on to score two goals in the first half, and along with an effort from Kelly 
Dawson,  Ball  State  took  a  3-0  
halftime lead.  
The  Irish,  however,  came  uut  

early in the second half playing in­spired hockey. After a particularly fine save by Irish goaltender Patti Gallagher, forward Molly McCabe scored on a spectacular breakaway, and the Irish cut Ball State's lead to 
3-1. 
Hope for a comeback proved to be short-lived for the Irish as Ball State struck again, scoring three times in a 15-minute span. Ball State midfielder Dawson turned in an im­pressive performance, ending the af­ternoon with a hat trick. 
After the game, Irish players had nothing but praise for the Ball State squad. 
"They had excellent stickwork, and they were just better skilled," remarked co-capiain Mary -Kose Rodgers. "But considering the amount oftime we've been out here (practicing), we held up pretty well.' 
"Defensively, their players were not marked tight enough, especially in the circle," said Undenfeld. "We didn't use enough small passes, and tried to do too much with the long ones." 
Goaltender Patti Gallagher, who finished the game with 25 saves, echoed Undenfeld's sentiments on the defense, and added that the ab­sence of co-captain Christine Wein­mann from the game had a lot to do with the lopsided score. 
forts made by the team.Sophomore 
Notre Dame's john Guignon, shown here in action against
Colleen Mergens led the team in 
Wisconsin-Milwaukee on Sept. 7, scored the only goal for the Irish sets, while junior Mary Reidy, and 
when they fell to Wisconsin-Madison Friday night. Notre Dame 
freshmen Margaret Feldman and 
also lost yesterday to Evansville. Some details ofthe games appear 
Tami Suth paced the team in kills. 
in the story at left. 
Freshman manager Karen Krok I' d fi 1 th h t. · d' 1 d •••••••••• c rp an save -•••••••••
ee s at t e mo tvatton 1Sp aye I 1 by the team this weekend will be a I II DEUVERY 1 key factor in the team's success this I NAUGLEre HOURS: 6:00-~ 272·5455 I 
season. I 
"They really want to win. They 1 seem to try really hard and always I give all that they have," said Krok. 1 
On Friday, the Belles will be 1 traveling to Lisle, Ill. for a weekend 1 tournament at Benedictine. 1 
I 

1:1
C:: 
"We really missed Christine 0 today. It's a different defense wit-~ bout her." l.l 
The Irish rebounded from their I opening-day loss yesterday with a 1­0 victory over Michigan in Ann Ar-I bor. The goal was scored by I sophomoreBenetDeBerryonanas-I sist from senior link Regina Degnan. I Patti Gallagher recorded seven saves between the pipes for the Irish. 1 
"Today's game was much like last 1 year's," said Lindenfeld after the 1 game yesterday. "We controlled the I ball more, and even though Mic-I higan had more shots on goal, the defense played well. Patti Gallagher 1 played a fabulous game. 
1 

~ sot lllxlow.y North. "'--and, lnllone 1 

NAUGLES TO YOUR DORMII 1 
MEXICAN KITCHEN 
.... _ 

_ u9
7 1•09 
--.;::-1.79 
u9 

~ :::; ~: 
~ 1 . ., ._., Mlbonylurtlo ...... 50-. 
P.S.Don1on:lormocho ..... _ ... ~ ... JICU'd al goodla! N..-a~ 1.19 
:--.....~,.!'no--,.ao"'*" dwn -.-edd-. .20 I') 
....,.,.,.,__.., .::: 

--·· :Lit .,..__...... ...
--.dllpo.--.....-·Hoi-·Hol~·s.-.·o-,.. Q 
...... ----.·~·a-·v-·--::S
T...... en-. l.tt l)lo thol . ....-..n 
_..... ': ~ 
1 T...... ~ J.J9 1.11 
Clollo 011' ·" !-!:
T-.__... 1.49 .._.... 
Cillo'-..-... J.74 ._.. 
-·,._a~.._ •,........ 
w...• • _...-·Juol on:lor 111 ~~=!_. 1.­Cillo'-I.N DINNERS 
•J--I--.I ­
4-T­
·•-­
...~-u­~.~-=.,"1':'~·~·
Y---·-,_ 
w...­

,.._........,..,.....__,_.,UJ«H 
ut Plus tax .., ..-. $5.00-an1or 
AMERICAN KITCHEN I
..__..-• ... •..-I 
amoo<<RUDNOTSTOCKPUD 
1 
1
:~•...:-"'"-.. ·" I 
doublo-. 
1 
~~ 1.19 
I 
2-·-· -.---.... I "---l.lt
2 
-wllhJ*Ido, -...,. 
I 
..._ 1.11 Q,. 
....._ 1.•• fl) 
::::;.,_ ::: 
g 
,.......__ J.lf 
·1
DRINK UPI 
c:.w .__ 
11_ ••64 • •• -.79 11--.M 1 
~=---·,..,c... 
1 
Dr •+-.-.·~~ I -.__• .47 I Cc6o. """~. Hal T• II 
SID£ ORDERS 
•-,_ ·" I 
~-:.;­


::: I 
-a... .., 
.,_.Fiool\. Fiool\, .,_ .It
._c.-.a I -..-'-_..... .N 1 1
1 

"After Friday's loss, I told the team ----------clip and save ---------­
to just relax and have fun, and that's what they did." 
8 • 6 Mon. • Sat. 219-239-5144 Badin HaD Notre DaDle, IN 46556 
Unw~hvofNotteDame 
(Evening• by Appointment) 

UNIVERSITY HAIR STYLISTS 
FULL SERVICE UNISEX CENTER 
~--------HAIR CUTTING SPECIALISTS Our master stylists have the up-to-date and conventional styles for the men and women of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. 
Let us take care of all your hair care needs. 
We also have a full line of retail hair products and are located on 
campus for your convenience. 


'JI['t(Jt.cllC3L~------------------------------------------M--o.nd•a•y•'•S•e•p•te.m.b•e•r--16_._1_9_8_5_-_P_a_g_e_l_l
Bloom County 
WHO IIK6 YOU.? 

Zeto 

ACROSS 1 Nitwits 5 Vacation spot 8 Pokerhand 
13 Gay 14 A Kennedy 15 Eagle's nest 16 Playeron 
dealer's left: var. 18 Transparent 
fabric 19 Asian country 20 Frequently 
to poets 21 Attached 22 Pokerhand 25 Forty winks 26 Racket 27 Lustrous black 31 Harbors 34 Punta del ­35 Try again 36 Simian 37 Heavy weight 39 Navy man: abbr. 41 Decimal base 42 Hang fire C> 1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 44 Testing places 
All Rights Reserved 46 Delete 
Friday's Solution 
48 Poker state 5 Employees 49 Native of: 6 Five-year 
suit. periods 50 Single 7 Increase 51 Name of the 8 Villain In 
game "Oliver Twist" 57 Gulch 9 Lover of Hero 60 -carte 10 Sumerian city 61 Lockerroom 11 Magnitude 
Item 12 Obey ~ 62 Nimble 13 Relent 
• 63 Poker hand 17 Hula­
65 Cleave 21 Bedclothes 66 Service gp. 23 Orient 67 Used poor 24 Flying toys 
judgment 28 Key letter 68 Tenderness 29 Poemsof 69 Novel praise 
70 Effective 30 Not even one 31 Parent 43 Polluter 55 Disturbed 
DOWN 32 Accessible 45 Since 56 Legal document 1 Biblical pause 33 Landlord's 47 Put back 57 Hasty 2 Fervor Income 50 Verbal 58 USauthor 
3 Roll-call 34 Related on 52 Lifeless 59 Shoutof reply mother's side 53 Permit acclaim 4 Neighbor 38 Martini Item 54 Sacred cow of 63 Sport or lsr. 40 Transmit Roman gods 64 Fowl 


Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

1985 Umversal Press Syndicate 
Kevin Walsh 

•• , '-I ill Li;. 

NO, WAIT. HERE's~ 
SD'1E"BODif SE"WN6. 
~:zr ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
SIJAP YOUR FIRST­

7 
I3IJ1N FOR NY STATE" TIX I 
G.&U RUMPEL5TILTSKIN! 
AT 9999

I 
, r , r
r r r; 

• • . . . . . 

Seymour Frlshberg: Accountant of the Wild Frontier
I~ l[iV\ 1/fl./l..f..-11 ~ 
1
1: lli /.1 11 I 11.--" ~ 
T/1/t./ //ill. 

Campus 
•3:15 
P.M. -6:00 P.M. -Kellogg lnsdtute •7:00 P.M.. Infonnadonal Meeting, Notre Lectures, "Peru's Fragile Democracy", Javier Dame Accounting Association, Center for So· Iguiniz, Catholic University -Uma, Peru, Luis cial Concerns Auditorium, Spo~red by Pasara, Center for Studies on Law and Society, Notre Dame Accounting Association, Meeting Uma, Peru, Hayes Healy 122, Sponsored by is for all current and prospective members Kellogg Institute for International Studies 

•7:00 
P.M. . Infonnadonal Meeting, •7:00 P.M. and 9:00 P.M. -Social Concei'08 


Christmas Break Trip to the Soviet Union, Film, "Silkwood", Engineerlpg Auditorium Library Lounge 
•8:00 P.M. -Meeting, Meet the Candidates •7:00 P.M. · Lecture, Exxon Distinguished Night, Chamelon Room, Haggar CollegeVisiting Scholar Series, Professor Michael Center, Sponsored by St. Mary's ElectionLewis, Rutgers Medical School, Hayes Healy Committee, All St. Mary's Freshmen welcome 

122 
to come and meet the candidates running for 

•7:00 P.M. -Placement Night, Placement 
Freshman Council 

Night for all Arts and Letters Graduating Stu· dents, Memorial Library Auditorium, •9:00 P.M. · Monday Night FUm Series ll, "A Sponsored by Career and Placement Services Doll's House", Annenberg Auditorium 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's Roast Top Round of Beef Veal Madeline 
Pork Fried Rice' Beef Pot Pie Quiche Lorraine Corn Dogs Hot Dog with Coney Sauce Italian Sausage Risotto 

TV Tonight 
8:00P.M. 16 NBC Monday Night at the 10:00 P.M. 16 NewsCenter 16 Movies: "Mirror.;" 22 22 Eyewitness News 22 lUte and Allie 34 America at Risk: A History of 28 NFL Monday Night Football: Pit­Consumer Protest tsburgh at Cleveland 46 Church Growth International 34 Survival Special: "The Amazing 10:30 P.M. 16 Tonight Show World ofSpider.;" 22 Simon and Simon/CBS Late 46 Lc:ster Sumrall Teaching Movie: "Cry Ra~" 8:30P.M. 46 Calvary Temple 46 Ught and Uvely 
9:00 P.M. 22 Cagney and Lacey 11 :00 P.M. 28 NewsWlltch 28 34 Quest for Killen: "Vaccine on 34 Film Du jour: "Algien 38" Trial'' 46 Praise the Lord 
46 Lc:sea Alive 11:30 P.M. 16 Late Night with David Lc:ner­man 
Student Activities 

********************* 
University ofNotre Dame 
CLUB PRESIDENTS' MEETING 
A MANDA TORY meetingfor all club presidents' ~ill be held TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17from 7-9pm in the Library Auditorium 
Attendance is required to be eligible for Student Government funding. 
Ifpresident cannot attttmd please have a club officer present 
:FOOTBALL :
* CONCESSION ·* 
~ STANDS~ 
: Clubs/Organizations must pick up concession :
*stand packets in the Student Activities lt 
Office by WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18. All lt : unclaimed concession packets will be given * 
*to clubs on the list of alternates. lt 
lt •concession stand list is posted outside of lt
* the Student Activities Office. lt 
*'******************** 
Thanks to you ... it works ... for 
ALL 
OF US 

unltadwau
• 


Monday, September 16, 1985 -page 12 




Wolverines rally past Irish in second half, 20-12 

Penalties, mistakes prove costly for ND as Michigan scores upset on national television 
By LARRY BURKE away. I'm tired of this stuff about us Irish ahead 12-10, a crucial penalty AssistantSports Edttor not moving people off the ball. I'm swung the momentum in Michigan's not going to wait for it until Novem­favor once again. It was a ques­ANN ARBOR, Mich. -Quarterback ber. tionable roughing-the-passer call on Steve Beuerlein just hoped that his "Michigan controlled the line on defensive tackle Wally Kleine that team would be able to pick up the both sides. We'-ve got to come offthe helped keep alive an 80-yard Wol­pieces. football next week, and we will verine drive that produced the win­"Winning this game would have come off the football." ning touchdown. The call came on a been a big one for us," said the Irish Problems on the line were not the third-and-seven play, as Wolverine quarterback ofSaturday's 20-12 loss only reason for Notre Dame's defeat tight end Eric Kattus dropped a pass to Michigan. "We're just going to yesterday, however. Costly at the 1 5-yard line with nothing but have to start from the beginning mistakes, critical peaalties and ques­open field in front of him. The net again. We have to get it together.l'm tionable playcalling helped the Wol­result was a first down for the Wol­tired ofsaying wait 'til next week." verines erase Irish leads of 9-3 and verines at the Notre Dame 13, in­But what the Irish will be doing 12-10, to the delight of most of the stead of a fourth-and-seven from the between now and next week could 105,523 in attendance. 26 that would have necessitated a hardly be called waiting, according Of the mistakes, by far the most 43-yard field goal attempt by fresh­to Coach Gerry Faust. damaging was Alonzo Jefferson's man Mike Gillette. Earlier in the 
"We went light in practice this fumble of the opening kickoff in the game, Gillette was short on a 47­week because of the injuries (the second half, which was recovered yarder. likes of which kept wideout Alvin by Michigan's Dieter Heren on the 
It appeared on the replays that

Miller and cornerback Mike Notre Dame 14-yard line. At the Kleine was in the air as HarbaughHaywood out of the contest)," said time Notre Dame led, 9-3, on the released the ball, and could not haveFaust. "But this week we may just strength of three John Carney field avoided a collision with the Mic­have to work in the trenches all goals, and it appeared that the Irish higan quarterback.
week. We'd better come back right might be able to escape with a low­"That call surprised me," Kleinescoring win. But the Wolverines said. "Ifit was a penalty, then it was a gained new life after Jefferson's tur­stupid mistake."
nover, as three plays later quarter­
Line play proves to be the crucial 
Whatever the case, fullbackback Jim Harbaugh scampered 10 Gerald White cruised through a bigyards into the end zone for the hole over left tackle three plays latertouchdown that gave Michigan its

difference in loss to Wolverines 
to put Michigan ahead, 17-12. Therefirst lead ofthe game. 

were still more than 16 minutes left

By MARlY BURNS concern about the experience and a 6-0 Irish lead by the middle of the As if that wasn't bad enough, Jef­to play, but the Wolverines looked
Sports Writer strength of the Irish lines earlier in second quarter. ferson suffered a season-ending in­ready to put the game away. 
the week. Things changed at this point, jury on the play. His knee will ANN ARBOR, Mich.-A frustrated Schembechler had good reason to ' however, as the Wolverines began require surgery, and his loss leaves In the fourth quarter, a 1 5-yard pass interference penalty on corner­
and weary Gerry Faust left little worry, for the Irish starters on the pushing their way downfield for 55 the Irish in a jam as far as the tailback doubt to a long line of reporters offensive line averaged around 6-5, yards iri 1 0 plays to add a field goal. It situation is concerned. 
back Marv Spence aided the Wol­verines' march for their final points. 

what he thought made the dif­270-pounds per man. The defensive was more of the same in the second "That fumble was definitely the ference moments after his 13th­front, meanwhile, had the intimidat­half as Michigan tailback Jamie Mor­big play we needed," said Wolverine The Irish had two chances in the ranked Notre Dame team lost its ing duo of 6-5, 270-pound tackle ris followed the blocks of his line to tailback Jamie Morris, who knifed final five minutes, but came up season opener for the second con­Eric Dorsey and 6-9, 274-pound key two long scoring drives which his way through the Irish defense for empty both times. In the final secutive year: Wally Kleine to go with 6-2, 252-put the game away. 119 yards on the afternoon. "There's minute they drove down to the Mic­
pound nosetackle Mike Kiernan. no doubt that that was the tuning higan 11-yard line, but Beuerlein
"I thought Michigan controlled Senior offensive guard Tim Scan­
Yet when the dust had cleared in point in the game." was sacked for an I 1-yard 1065 on
the line of scrimmage on both ends nell admitted that he and his
Michigan Stadium on Saturday, the Later in the third quarter, after third down and then was inter-
of the ball," said Faust. "We aren't teammates may not have been quite
Wolverines had outrushed the Irish Carney had tied a school record
going to win many football games ready for the quality play exhibited
251 yards to 97. The Michigan lines, with his fourth field goal to put the see IRISH, page 8
when they do that. The game was by the Wolverine defensive line. 
which featured several players in 
won on the lines and in our failure to "I think they were a lot quicker
new positions, were able also to
execute there." than we anticipated, " said Scannell. 
apply pressure on Notre Dame quar­
"They just outquicked us and moved
A sub-par performance in the terback Steve Beuerlein on some to where they wanted."
trenches, of course, was not critical plays. supposed to be possible with this "They had a better rush and Although Faust was less than Irish team. Even on a day when not­opened up better holes," said Faust. pleased with the play of his lines, he hing seemed to go as it should have, "If we can't open holes our game vowed a better effort next week this development, which began to won't go. When you make five or six against Michigan State, another Big show itself late in the first half, was a yards on first down you're going to 10 school with big and talented surprise toalmost everyone viewing win the football game. lines. the contest. Early in the contest, it was Notre "We have to execute better on 
After all, Notre Dame has a na­Dame who was banging for five both of our lines," said the fifth-year tional reputation for producing the yards a crack, as the Irish checked coach. "I tell you though, we're biggest and strongest lines year in the Michigan running game on going to come offthe ball next time. 
and year out. In fact, Michigan coach defense and then moved the ball Bo Schembechler had expressed downfield on offense. The result was see LINE, page 9 
Notre Dame cross country squad wins meet by beating three teams 
The fourth Irish runner to finish The team had a little trouble stick­
By PETE GEGEN 
Sports Writer was freshman Ron Markezich. In his ing to Piane's philosophy of running first college-level race, the as a pack. youngster placed 11th. "We have to run in a group bet­
The Notre Dame cross country ter," said Tyler. "We were a little
team won its first meet ofthe season "It was a lot different than high 
last Friday, besting three teams in school," noted Markezich. "They spread out on Friday." Columbus, Ohio. The score of the really took off fast at the start, so I Injuries have also caused a few meet was Notre Dame 44, Ohio State was behind the first couple miles. I problems for the Irish. Both Craig 
Maxfield and Rick Mulvey have been
46, Michigan State 49 and Missouri had to catch up." Baptist 1 08. The final three runners to place slowed by foot problems, and Mike for the varsity were Tom Warth Collins is not expected to return for Co-captainJim Tyler won the five­(17th),JeffVan Wie (19th), and Tim four weeks. mile race with a time of 24:18. SOp­Diamond (20th). 
On the positive side, the team 
homore Dan Garrett placed fifth, Head coach Joe Piane said he was 
demonstrated that it does have the 
and co-captain John Magill finished very pleased with the efforts ofthese 
talent to match or even surpass last 
tenth. last three runners. However, he was vear's achievements. 
not completely satisfied with the 
The ObocrY.,./ Pete U.:hu

"l felt pretty relaxed," said Tyler performance ofhis team as a whole. "The Ohio State team returned 

about his run. "I started to tire on the "Some of the runners did unex­the entire team which was fourth in Notre Dame split end Tim Brown bas this pass broken up by a third and fourth mile, but I was able pectedly well," he said. "But some the Big Ten last year," noted Piane. Michigan defender, an example of the many problems that befell to pass the leaders in the last half did not run well at all. We can do a "And they were wondering who the Irish at Michigan Saturday. For more on the contest, see Larry mile." lot better." these guys were from Notre Dame." Burke's story above. 




