------------------------~--------------------------------------------------------------­
Body language -pages 6, 7 

VOL XIX, NO. 112 llw itH.Iqwmknt ..,tudt'tll tH'\\ ..,p;tpcr ..,u·, 111g 1H1tn d.lllH' .111d ...aim m.tn ·.., TUESDAY,MARCH 12,1985
.................... Meeting ends 
Politburo's youth 
when quorum 

dissolved by to control USSR 
Associated Press 1982, and his 13-month tenure was the shortest ever for a Kremlin chief.
Domagalski 

MOSCOW Soviet President Konstantin Chernenko is dead at 73 But, although Gorbachev's acces­
By MIKE MILLEN 

and his youngest lieutenant, Mikhail sion to the seat of Lenin and Stalin 
Senior StaffReporter 

Gorbachev, took power yesterday in marked a transition to a new genera­a lightning shift away from the aged tion of leadership, it was not ex­
Amidst a heated controversy con· 

elite that has ruled this huge, pected to mean major alterations incerning the Student Senate restruc­secretive nation for two decades. either Soviet domestic or foreignturing proposal, last night's senate The Kremlin announced yester­policy.
meeting abruptly ended when a day afternoon that the long-ailing In his acceptance speech yester­voting member left the room and 

Chernenko, "staunch fighter ... for day, Gorbachev said the policiesdissolved the quorum. 
Communism," had died at 7:20p.m. forged under Chernenko'sSophomore Class President Jim Sunday of emphysema and other predecessors, Leonid Brezhnev andDomagalski said he walked out be­problems. Yuri Andropov, "remain un­
cause, "The (democratic) process 
Within five hours a second an­changed."
has completely fallen apart." Ini­
nouncement came -the 54-year-old Gorbachev is considered a
tially, the quorum was held together 
Gorbachev, youngest member ofthe staunch supporter of Andropov'sonly by the irregular process of as­ruling Politburo, had been chosen to reform-minded economic policies,signing two non-written proxy votes succeed Chernenko in the most im­more so than Chernenko was. Those to two non-voting senate members. 
portant Kremlin post, Communist policies included a crackdown on
Parliamentarian Brian Holst said 

Party general secretary. corruption and inefficiency, and ef­this procedure was "hazy," and Chernenko was the third Soviet forts to boost individual initiativesadded it was up to Student Body 
party leader and president since for Soviet workers.
President Rob Bertino to judge the validity ofthe votes. "What was important is that we 

Joanne Richardson named
didn't have a quorum," said Domagalski, discounting the votes. Bertino, however, considered the 


editor-in-chief of yearbook 
proxy votes legitimate. Domagalski explained, "I would not walk outofa By LISA M. BOYKIN meeting that was being run in a fair 
News Staff 

manner. Tonight was one of the poorest (run) meetings I've ever joanne Richardson, a junior psy· seen. The current administration has chology major, will take over as taken this proposal lightly, and the editor-in-chief of the 1985-1986 new administration is unprepared." Dome in April. Mike Wilkins, a 
Kevin McGovern, student activi­

senior American studies major, is ties board manager, said, "I think the the current editor-in-chief. class presidents have been acting 
Richardson, a native of the Virgin very irresponsibly. Jim Islands, said her experience as (Domagalski) couldn't have his way, editor of the hall life section of the 
so he just walked out." Duane 
Dome in her sophomore year, and Lawrence, student body vice her present position as sports editor president-elect and president of St. has provided the necessary back­Edward's Hall, was not pleased with ground to oversee this annual proj· 
joanne Richardson

the proceedings. "It was a quorum ect. 
The Oberrvrr/Johannn Hacker

until Jim left," he said, and added, Although Richardson said the job can all cherish. It is a reflection of
That sinking feeling
"We were prepared. We think per­
will consume much ofher time, she ourcollege careers. Something that I sonal preferences are getting in the Ed Kazmierzak, a supervisor at the Rockne Memorial, was said she is proud to be a part of the hope can evoke pleasant memories way ofstudent government." helpedinto theRocknepoolby the swim team yesterday afternoon. Dome tradition. of our experiences here at Notre 
see SENATE, page 3 When begot out there was no one on band to give him a towel. "The Dome is something that we Dame," said Richardson. 




Financial controls questioned by some, accepted by others 
Editor's Note: This is part two ofa ancial activity for the last three fis­1984. Novas said in 1982 and 1983 working in her capacity for 18 Before the receipt can be paid, series on the financial workings cal years. According to this report, the audit found only small years. the treasurer's office must exam­of Notre Dame student govern­in 1982 the government lost procedural errors and no fraud. "Louise Nye is very good. She ine the receipt and make sure it is ment and certain student organi· S7,862; in 1983, it lost S47; in The errors were corrected. keeps things under control," said for a legitimate purpose. If the zations. It examines the 1984, it made Sl 2,425. Actually, "They didn't audit us in 1984, Bill McKinney, assistant directorof receipt is cleared, the check pay­day-to-day financial operations the report shows a 1984 profit of because they knew what they were internal audit. ment must be signed by Novas and 
and long-term financial policy of S425, butNovas said the figure was going to find," Novas said. Part ofthat control is a mid-term co-signed by Neal. student government. Today's S12,000 low because of an ac­Cohen said they were not performance report produced by 
"The word is not 'approve,' " 

story examines the adequacy of counting error made when ex­audited last year because "we Novas' office at the end of last se­Novas said of Neal's role in the
the present system of financial amining Irish Gardens. thought it would be redundant to mester. Among other things, it 
check approval process. "She justcontrol in studentgovernment. The University's Internal do it three years in a row." showed that the musical entertain­makes sure it's proper."

Auditing Department audited stu­"Once we find something that ment commission of the SAB has ByFRANK LIPO dent government for the first time looks pretty good, we won't go used up their year's allotment of "I personally feel there should and BOB MUSSELMAN in 1982. Before that, "we used to 
funds. It, accort:ling to Novas, "was be more control between my of­StaffReporters get C.P.A.s from outside," to do the closed down." fice and student government,'' 
audit, Novas said. The performance report "alerts Neal said. It's not that she doesn't 
"Nobody else understands it," "We said 'We have our own in­me to problematic areas," Novas trust the students involved, she 
said AI Novas, student body trea· ternal auditing department, why said, and is "informational, used to said, citing two years of good 
surer, referring to the realm ofstu­not let them do it for free. They'll make managerial decisions." finances. 
dent government finances. probably do a better job because Director of Student Activities "The main reason I feel there 
-
Nobody else, that is, besides him­they know. exactly what we do,' " joni Neal said the report "was good should be more control is because self, assistant treasurer Eric Par­Novas said. back for a couple of years,'' Cohen information and timely. It the student activities fee is not an zianello and Louise Nye, Lou Cohen, director of internal said, calling student government helped AI and it helped me," she optional fee, every student must bookkeeper for the treasurer's of­auditing, said his department does "a very easy audit." He also said, added. pay it," Neal said. The money is fice. not look only for errors, but for "we always felt comfortable with Any organization or project in also held in a University account, 
And at least one administrator ways to improve. Areas usually tar­them." Student government did a student government which has she said. would like to see more controls on geted for improvement are overall self-audit in 1984 which Cohen been budgeted does not automati­Neal said she would "like to see what Novas called "a little busi­efficiency, accounting policies and said seemed well done. cally receive a sum of money. In­some sort of control factor earlier ness." procedures, controls, and organi­Cohen attributed student gov­stead, either an invoice or receipt in the process." referring to the 
Last semester, Novas' office pub­zation. ernment's efficiency to a system of for goods or services must be pre­fact that the check shows up on her lished a comparative report After the 1983 audit, student "strong internal control," and the sented to the office of student showinR student -government fin-~overnment was not audited in presence of Nye, who has been body treasurer. sec BUSINESS, page 3 
I I • ~ • 
. •' 
The Observer Tuesday, March 12, 1985 -page 2 

New stop signs recently have been installed on Saint Mary's main road, near the intersection by Madeleva Hall. College security gave recent traffic problems and accidents as the reason for the new lights. Flares were placed in front of the signs for the first few days to draw attention to them. -The Obsen1er 

Homosexuality is a gift ofGod according to an Episcopal priest in San Francisco, who will marry church mem­bers of the same sex. Robert Cromey, in a sermon at Trinity Epis­copal Church on Sunday, urged Episcopal bishops to endorse homosexual marriages. He noted the church has accepted female priests, divorce and birth control. Cromey said he will perform homosexual marriages only for church members until such relation­
ships receive the blessing of the church hierarchy. -AP 
The Ventura Freeway in Los Angeles may be the most heavily traveled thoroughfare in the world, according to the state Department ofTransportation. The freeway is used by 267,000 vehicles per day, according to department data compiled recently. It surpasses the Santa Monica Freeway, with 240,000 vehicles per day, as the busiest highway in California. The 1985 Guinness Book of World Records lists a stretch ofthe Dan Ryan Expressway in Chicago as the most heavily traveled road in the world with 254,700 cars per day. -AP 

"Dynasty"' whose sexy, campy soap-opera appeal has made it one ofthe nation's most popular television series, can count Soviet emigres in Los Angeles and San Francisco among its most avid fans. It is the most popular program broadcast by radio station KMNB, which provides simulcast Russian translations ofTV shows." 'Dynasty' they like very much," said Efim Tovbin, an immigrant who 
created the radio network. "If we don't give 'Dynasty,' we get in 
trouble.... They don't like the cowboys. They don't like movies with 
pistols that kill everybody." -AP 
Of Interest 
"The Image ofWoman in the Old Testament" will be the topic of a lecture by Frederick Greenspahn, assistant profes­sor ofJudaic studies at the University ofDenver. The lecture will be tonight at 8 in the Memorial library auditorium. The lecture is sponsored by the Notre Dame department of theology as part of its Crown-Minow Series.-The Obseroer 
Lloyd Shefsky, a Chicago attorney cur­rently serving as president of the Sports Lawyer's Association, will speak to Notre Dame Law School students today at 2 in Room 110 of the Law School. The talk is one of a series sponsored by the Enter­tainment and Sports Law class and is open to the public. Shefsky is the author ofseveral articles concerning accountancy, taxation and sports laws which appeared in major legal publications. -The Obsen1er 
The Club ofLife wm give a presentation on the agricul­tural platforms of the Green Parties of Europe this evening at 7:30. The presentation will be in the LaFortune little Theater. -The Obseroer 


Weather 
Spring break is in the air as temperatures in Northern Indiana still drop below freezing at night and temperatures in florida climb into the 80s. Temperatures are predicted to decrease this afternoon to lows in the upper 20s tonight. Tomorrow it should be partly sunny and warmer with highs in the low to mid 50s. -AP 


The Observer 

The Observer {USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Obsetyer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S30 per year ( S20 per sc· mcster) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
Today's issue was produced by: 

Design Editor ............................. Paul Bruce Design Assistant........ jane Anne Riedford Layout Sl4lff......................... Alice Kroeger Melissa Warnke Becky Gunderman Typesetters ...................... Bill Highducheck Tracy Bringardner News Editor.... . .....John Menndl Copy Editor ................................. Frank Lipo Sports Copy Editor .................. Mary Sieger Viewpoint Copy Editor......... Cindy Boyle Viewpoint layout...... ............. Paul Bruce Features Copy Editor ........... Teresa Keefe Features Layout ............. Catherine Coffey ND Day Editor...................... Aimee Storrin 
SMC Day Editor............... Toni Rutherford Ad Design ..................'Anna Marie Furleigh 
Lisa Dickinson Typist................................... Gina Farabough Photographer. ....................... Phil Deeter 




St. Patrick's Day 1986 will be spent at Notre Dame 
Many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will be 
spending this St. Patrick's Day somewhere between 
Kokomo and Atlanta, as they travel south to sunny 
beaches. For others, March 1 7 will be a day ofcelebra­
tion with family and friends back home. 
Next year, however. things will be different. Call it 
the "luck of the Irish,'' but for the first time in six years, 
students will celebrate St. Paddy's Day under the dome. 
That's right. The approved 1985-86 academic calen­dar calls for a combined midsemester and Easter break · from March 22 to April 1. Because Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have identical break schedules. both campuses will be around to celebrate the holiday that is second only to New Year's Eve in the party agenda of many students. 
Why the change? The 1985-86 school year is unique because Easter is about 10 days earlier than usual. To pack the required number of days between the begin­ning ofthe semester and commencement weekend and still schedule midterms during the week before 
0 

One only needs to look at ,..,dk"WEIMNOL7 past years' celebrations ofSt. Paddy's Day on campus to get a true sense ofthe impact of this holiday. These years have been few and far be­tween, but each has proven memorable in some way. 
•March 
17, 1969 -St. Patrick's Day marked the opening ofthe spring panty raid season on the dorms of Saint Mary's College. Approximately 500 male students stormed Holy Cross and LeMans Halls, where they were greeted by bras, panties and other lingerie. Some wo­men got nasty and threw water and hard objects at the wave ofmischievous leprechauns. 

•March 
17, 1970-Among the day's shenanigans was a sign reading "Happy St. Pat's Day from Notre Dame Kudos" hanging from the top ofthe LeMans' bell tower. Agroup ofguys apparently spent a week and a halfplan­ning the escapade and received inside help. Saint Mary's security failed to stop the prank. The culprits marched 


out ofLeMans'lobby chanting the "Mission Impossible" theme song and took off in a getaway car. 
•March 17, 1975-President Gerald Ford addressed a 
Chris Bowler 

Production Manager 


special academic convocation and received an honorary degree from the University. The eventwas the highlight of a day-long appearance by the President. Meanwhile, throngs ofstudents filled their beer glasses with green brew all day at Five Corners. Corby's opened its do~rs at 6:30a.m., and 250 people had already begun celebrating by 7 a.m. That night a group of male stu­dents took off their clothes and paraded around at two Five Corners' bars. 
By no means do l intend to play down St. Patrick's 
Day. Some schools are 
known for raucous celebra­


spring break, students will have a walloping 1 1-day vacation. This doesn't hap­pen often, and the schedule will probably return to nor­mal the year after next. 
Until now, it has seemed as though the administration deliberately avoids schedul­ing classes during St. Pat's Day. It could be a valid cau­tion -after all, under a new 
alcohol policy, why risk the volatile combination of this ethnic and religious holiday and Notre Dame's Irish-Catholic tradition? 
tions that have become an­nual events. Halloween at the University of Wisconsin at Madison, Marquette's block party and the Little 500 at Indiana University are only a few examples. It is 
only natural that the Fight­ing Irish be recognized for their St. Patrick's Day fes­tivities. 
Next March 17 should prove interesting, to say the least. The alcohol policy could weather its most de­manding test to date. And chances are today's students 

'3 ·/7 will live up to past St. Patrick's Day escapades and plan a few memorable surprises. 
Students may spend this St. Patrick's Day somewhere between Lake Michigan and the Gulf Coast, while the nearly empty campus enjoys a tranquil Irish holiday. But next year, the only thing quiet on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses during St. Patrick's Day could be the empty libraries. 
The Obsen•er publishes its official opinion in the form of an unsigned, large-print, wide­column article in the Vil'wpoint section. These columns represent the opinion of a majority of The Observer editorial board. All other columns, on the Viewpoint page or otherwise, are the views of their authors and do not necessarily reflect the views ofthe edi­torial board or the staffofThe Observer. 

Clip and save this ad for easy travel planning! Travel United Limo to 1.1 from Chicago's O'Hare 
LEAVE  LEAVE  
 ARRIVE  ARRIVE  
NOTRE DAME  MICHIANA REGIONAL  11:-4:;;  rtT·~·-·  MICHIANA REGIONAL  NOTRE DAME  
BUS  AIRPORT  ARRIVE  LEAVE  AIRPORT  BUS  
SHELTER  SOUTH BENO  O'HARE  O'HARE  SOUTH BEND  SHELTER  
4.20 a m  4 40 a.m  6:00am  8.30 a m  1150a.m  1205p.m  
6 20 am  6 40 am  8 00 am  10 30 a m  150 p m  2 05 p m  
8 20 am  8 40 am  10 00 a m  12 JO p m  3:50 p m  4 05 p.m  
10 20 a.m  1040a.m  12·00 p m  2 30 p m  5:50pm  6 05 p m  
12 20 p m  12 40 p m  2 DO p m  4 30 p.m  750p m  8 05 p m  
220p.m.  2 40 p.m  4.00p.m  6 30 p m  9:50 p m  1005p m.  
4 20 p m  4 40 p m  6 00 p m  8 30 p.m  11:50pm  12:05 a m  
6 20 p m  6 40 p.m  8 00 p m  10 30 p m  1 50 a.m  2:05am  
8 20 p m  8 40 p m  10 DO p.m  12 30 a m  3:50am  4·05 a m  

SOUTH BEND ARRIVALS & DEPARTURES ON SOUTH BEND TIME, EXPIRES APRIL27,1985 FOR RESERVATIONS CAll FOR COP1PLETE LIST OF POINTS& TIMES 
(219) 674-6993 OR CALL YOUR TRAVEL AGENT 
-~ -~--~-----­
The Observer Tuesday, March 12, 1985 -page 3 

SPRING BREAK IS NEARI! 
This year tan, don't burn; prepare your skin at 
J.M.S. Plaza


'mN-HAWA1iJvi 
4609 Grope Rood 
sun tann1ng solon 
Mishawaka. IN
277-7026 

Can't go to Florida? Get a tan anyway in our booth, beds, or both 

MEET YOUR MAJOR Tonight 
7:00-8:00 p.m. Room 341 O'Shaughnessy 
Comeand diseuss the new revised programs featuring fle*ibility and ehoiee ofspeeialization: 
The Major in Theology 
or 
Theology as a 5eeond Major 


Drive brings in more than $84,000 
By MARY HUFFMAN 
News Staff 
The II th annual phone-a-thon for the Saint Mary's Annual Fund easily surpassed its goal of 175,000 in pledges. 
Two hundred volunteers called alumnae of all ages, and received pledges totaling 184,991. 
Julie Strazzabosco, vice president for academic affairs, was the phone­a-thon student coordinator. Straz· zabosco was also the coordinator for the fall phone-a-thon. "It was really special this year because we had one in the fall, too," she said. 
This is the frrst year the College held two phone-a-thons for the same 
purpose in one academic year.  
The  average  contribution  was  
SSt.SO.  
Before  the  phone-a-thon,  Lisa  

O'Shea, assistant director of devel­opment, anticipated an average do· nation ofapproximately 145. 

Senate 
continued/rom page 1 
Some were in favor of the postponement. Senator Tom Abood said, "We are totally unprepared to vote on this." Joanie Cahill, presi· dent of Lyons Hall, was unsure of some of the details of the proposal, such as the presidential appointees who will sit on the various commit­tees. 
Although the main motion did not 

The South Bend Vending Company and the Coca-Cola Bot­tling Company provided refresh­ments for the volunteers. 
The volunteers also each received 

a free five-minute phone call to 
anywhere in the United States for 
each one and one-half hour shift 
they worked. 
"It was really special, too, because some people joined the Madeleva Society," said Strazzabosco. Mem­bers of the society have donated at least S I ,000. Along with the new members ofthe society, many previ­
ous members renewed their mem­berships. 
More than 2,000 people were contacted and 81.3 percent pledged a donation. 
Of those contacted in the class of 1984, 65.3 percent made a contribu­tion. 
The phone volunteers filled out pledge cards, some of which were 
come to a vote, an amendment was passed which would place nine people on the senate budget com­mittee. Any issue which had a non­unanimous committee vote would come before the senate. This, accor­ding to Student Body President· elect Bill Healy, would let them pass routine expenditures "that are so basic that they should be accepted without discussion," such as Trans­
fer Orientation. 
Because the main motion did not come to a vote, the senate will take 
WE HIRE VETERANS PART-TIME. 
Your service, skill, no matter what service you were in, could be very useful in the Army Reserve. You'll find the Army Reserve in places other ser­vices don't have reserve units. And, because Ar­my Reserve is larger, there are usually more openings available. 
An E-5 with 4 years' military experience can earn more than '$1,946 per year, serving one week-end per month and two weeks per year at a local Reserve unit. Plus retirement benefits and other fringes. 
See if your service skill matches an Army Reserve need now. Call us or stop by. SGTBrennan 234-4187 
ARMY RESERVE. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 

CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS NOW RENTING: FOR FALL: 
Make your reservations now-some apartments stillleft 
FOR SUMMER: 

Low summerrates Available in the latter part ofMay Rentingfor 6 weeks to 3 months 
sent last week. The remainder will be sent this week. The money must be received by May 31, and will be used for the Annual Fund, a budget support fund for the College. 
Strazzabosco said this year's response was, "Wonderful! It was a direct reflection of how hard the girls worked." 
Regardless ofupcoming midterms and papers, she said, "The people this year reaUy stuck it out." Some students stayed for the entire phone­a·thon. 
joanie McKenna, Kim McNamara, Chris Sweeney, Ann Boutton, Therese Ryan, and Sue Naples were captains in charge of each night's production. 
The phone-a-thon is part of "EXCEL," a S25 million campaign to offset the cost of the new planned science building, endowed faculty chairs, major capital projects, oper· ating costs, and scholarships. 
up the issue the Monday after spring break. The new administration, headed by Healy, is scheduled to take office April I st. In order to have the restructuring policy passed by the current senate, Bertino said he 
would urge the senate members to extend their terms for approxi­mately two weeks. 
Immediately after the changes are put into the constitution and passed, there would be a new election for hall representatives. This cast some doubt upon the status of the newly elected senators, since the new pro­posal calls for senators to be elected by dorms rather than districts. 


Business 
continuedfrom page 1 
desk for approval after the goods have been received. 
"When you're dealing with large sums of money, there needs to be more than one control factor," Neal said. 
Neal said she has discussed the issue with Father David Tyson, vice president for student affairs, and in· dicated a change may be in the wings. 
Any change would frrst be dis­cussed with student leaders, said 
j 
Neal. 
"We don't want to create a policy and then dictate it to student gov· ernment." Instead, she said, she would work with student govern­ment to create, "a realistic system from an administrative standpoint." 
MANDATORY MEETING 
All students who have applied or who wish to apply for cabinet positions in Student Government (executive coor­dinators, cabinet members, freshman orientation and transfer orientation) must attend. 


7p.m. 

-
tomorrow 

For Information  New Orleans  
Call 272-1441  Room~ LaFortune  
Have a nice Spring Break!I  student Center  


The Observer Tuesday, March 12, 1985-page 4 



Kilpatrick named Smith Lecturer 
Spedal to The Observer 
Columnist and author James Kil­patrick will visit Notre Dame April 17-18 as the Red Smith Lecturer in Journalism for 1985. 
Kilpatrick, the most widely synd­icated political columnist in the country, will deliver the Red Smith Lecture at 8 p.m., Wednesday, April 17 in the Memorial Ubrary Auditorium. He will participate in classes on April 18. 
The lectureship, which is adminis­tered by the department of Ameri­can studies, honors the late Red Smith, a 1927 graduate of Notre Dame and one ofAmerica's greatest and most admired sportswriters. 
Made possible by a gift from Coca­Cola USA, the lectureship promotes the teaching of writing and 
SARG dedicated to more student interaction 
By FRANKJ. MASTRO 
News Staff 
The University's Student Alumni Relations Group, dedicated to in­creasing student-alumni interaction, is celebrating a new image with ex­panded activities such as an Alumni Association van in Ft. Lauderdale and a picnic for seniors and alumni, said new Alumni Representative Maria Miceli. 
SARG works in cooperation with the Alumni Association to foster good relations between students and alumni. 
The group has two new members, Miceli and Larry Cunningham, who are alumni representatives of SARG and alumni of the University. Much of their job requires traveling to dif­ferent alumni clubs across the country as liaisons between the clubs and the Alumni Association. 
There is a very positive relation­ship between the students and the alumni, said Miceli. "They are so in­terested in everything about student life to the point of reliving past glories. I was amazed at their con­
cern. They're on top of everything," said Miceli. 
SARG is sponsoring many activi­ties which give the students a chance to meet alumni. One of the forthcoming services will be an Alumni Association van located in Ft. Lauderdale throughout next week to help students. It will in­clude free long-distance calling and coordinate daytime excursions such 
as snorkeling, camping and deep-sea fishing. 
At the end ofApril, they will spon­sor a Senior Picnic with Alumni. Senators from all I79 alumni clubs will be present to help students with any problems that they may face in their 'homes' after graduation. "The alumni can help students land jobs, make living arrangements and make contacts with their prospective 
alumni clubs," said Miceli. 
"From my own experiences the alumni were really open to me. They helped me make contacts in a new city. This is a great way for the stu­dents to meet alumni," said Miceli. 
SARGis a 12 person organization that was organized in 1982. Miceli and Cunningham, the alumni repre­sentatives, form the link between SARG and the Student Alumni Com­mittee. This committee consists of three members; Chairman Joseph Reich Jr., George Evans and Kath­ken Sullivan. They meet with SARG three times a year and work with them throughout the year. 
"SARG has a much greater empha­sis now, due to the number of clubs," said Miceli. Clubs range in membership from 8,000 in the Chicago club to nine in the Laredo club. 
t._-... ... <o 'a •• •• fa_:" f' • ' t \ I I ' \ • • • -> .... 
journalism at Notre Dame and recognizes high journalistic stand­ards in America. 
Kilpanick began writing his 
column, "A Conservative View," in 
1964. His column is distributed 
three times per week by Universal 
Press Syndicate, and it appears in 
more than 450 newspapers. He also 
writes a weekly column, "The 
Writer's Art," concerning language 
and style for Universal Press. 

Kilpatrick is the author or editor of 10 books, including "'111e Writer's Art," which was published in 1984. He appeared as a commentator on the CBS program "60 Minutes" for nine years. He is currently a regular 
panelist on the nationally-syndicated television program "Agronsky & Company." 
Kilpatrick,  64,  began  his  
journalism  career  in  1941  as  a  
reponer  for  the  Richmond  (Va.)  

News Leader. He later became the chief editorial writer and editor of the News Leader before leaving the paper in 1967. 
One ofonly three columnists ever to be honored as a Fellow of Sigma DeltaChi, the SocietyofProfessional Journalists, Kilpatrick holds the Uni­versity of Missouri medal for distin­guished editorial writing and the William Allen White award from the University of Kansas for distin­guished service to journalism. 
Following Kilpatrick's visit to Notre Dame, his Red Smith Lecture will be printed and distributed by Coca-Cola USA to journalists and educators across the country. 
NOTRE DAME'S GREAT ~~.BOOKS PROGRAM 

Consider a truly 
HUMANISTIC EDUCATION 
... Talk with faculty and students 
Tuesday, March 12,7:00 p.m. GRACE PIT PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIES 


Special Rates 
Summer 





STORAGE 
RESERVATION CALL NOW 
683·1959 
•VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS 
•APPROX lV2 MILES NORTH US 31-33 
•GATES OPEN ALL DAY SUNDAY 
Master Mini Warehouses 
~ ~ 

Cincinnati, Ohio 
1985 Summer Sessions Offering Graduate & Undergraduate 
· Business Administration Teacher Education Arts & Sciences 

Courses, Workshops, and Institutes Call (513) 745-3358 for information 
or send the following to: Xavier Summer Sessions 3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, Ohio 45207 

Name ____________ Address ___________ 

You've worked hard getting your degree, hard enough that you'd like to continue that chalienge. That's what Army Nursing offers. The challenge of professional practice, new study opportunities, continuing education and travel are all a part ofArmy Nursing. And you'll have the respect-and dignity accorded an officer in the United States Army. 
Ifyou're working on your BSN or if you already have a BSN and are registered to practice in the United States or Puerto Rico, talk to our Army Nurse Corps Recruiter. 
SGT Bergstrom CaD eoUec:t (815) 727-9120 
ARMYNURSECORPS. 
BEAI LYOU CI.N BE. 
After JOUr lastexam, wbattough questions will you stiUbe facing? 

Wdon't have your answers. But we"ll listen to your questions, 
share some of our own about who we want to become and where we want to journey. For anyone who has considered the path of priesthood, the Holy Cross Fathers' One-Year Candidate Program provides an opportunity to ask and explore the possibilities in community. 
II 
Contact: Rev. Andre Leveille, C.S.C. Vocation Director Box 541 
Notre Dame. IN 46556 (219) 283-6385 


.1"" .• r,.r~'-'i~-1 .. A-.1 ..• ..••••••••••••-...-.. .. ..,' • 4 ~ • 1 • r r 
--~--------~--~ 



~i~~~_()__i_Il___t__________________r_ue-sd-ay-,M-ar-ch-12-,1-98-5~-pa-ge-5 
Star wars will not set us free from fear 
It is mystery-solving time in Washington. The mystery is Star Wars-where did it come from so fast? How did a president who never troubled himself for years over the details of missilery -who did not know the Russians had 
Garry Wills 
outrider 
most of their force based on land, or that submarine-launched missiles could not be recalled -become such a fan ofthis future sys­tem, which he wants to beat the Russians with by giving it to them? Written in a novel, all this would seem too improbable to get by the editors. 
The wonder is that the dream casually men­tioned in a president's speech should have shot from the edges offantasy to the center of debate in less than a year. On March 23, 1984, Reagan first mentioned his new scheme. At that time, it came as a surprise not only to you and to me -the president's science advisor, CJCorge Keyworth II, now one of the principal advocates of the system, had not heard of it 

until five days before the speech was given. 
Even more surprising, the secretaries ot state and defense had only learned of the plan about a week before Keyworth. The matter was not developed through their depart­ments, a fact that Keyworth celebrates as a tri­umph over the bureaucracy, an example of "top-down leadership." 

What that means is that Star Wars was shaped by the battle for Ronald Reagan's mind. Robert McFarlane, the national security adviser at the White House, played the key role. He understands that Reagan is a good .salesman only if he is selling hope, out there on a smile and a shoeshine. He tends to stay awake only when he is smiling. The only nu­clear plan Reagan could get enthusiastic about 
is one that would solve literally all problems ­
make attack impossible, make nuclear weap­
ons useless and make nuclear knowledge ab­
solutely open and shared. 

The McFarlane memo offering this bright future, submitted over the name ofJames Wat­kins, was significantly titled "Freedom From Fear." This appealed to Reagan's vision ofhim­selfas the new Roosevelt-it reaffirmed one of the for freedoms Roosevelt offered as the goal offighting World War II. 
Perhaps no one in the world except Reagan himself believes in all the promises of Star Wars. But Reagan believes in them as he believes that his tax cut is finally going to bring down the deficit, someday, by some miracle ofgrowth. 
Others signing on to the Star Wars plan believe or hope in some one of its many prospects -laboratories believe they can do something with research money, armed forces that they can beefup their power from 

the expensive adjuncts to the plan, some arms controllers that they can use its scary prospect for bargaining purposes and enemies ofarms control that they can use it to torpedo negotiations. 
In all these ways, Star Wars is the perfect foreign affairs analogue of the supply-side vi­sion in Reagan's first year as president. Few believed in that, either. But many people joined in the push for a tax cut to accomplish their own smaller purposes. It was forced through by the non-believers, some ofwhom (by the end) thought it would not work but could not be stopped. The results of the tax cut, contrary to promise, were growth in pro­ductivity and in the deficit -a mixed blessing different people weigh on different scales. But the failure of Star wars, even in part, would 
take place in a larger arena ofdanger and con­sequence. That prospect should not free us from prudent fears at the outset. 

(C) 1985, UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 

=c -=-~The Observer 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary·s College It does nci necessar1ly reflect the policies of the administration of either mst1tut1on~ The news IS reported as accurately and as objectively as poss1ble. Uns1gned ed1torials represent the op1nion of a maJOrity of the Editorial Board. CommentarieS. letters and the Inside Column present the v1ews of the1r authors. Column space IS available to all members of the commun1ty. and the free expression of varymg opm1ons on campus. through letters. IS encouraged. 


P.O.BoxQ 
them to go into battle with water pistols in their hands? 
I suspect that Nolasco's true objection to Notre Dame ROTC, though he was unable to articulate it, is that in fact he would prefer a utopian world in which soldiers and weapons do not exist, as would we all. But he fails to recognize that in the face of reality, military preparedness is necessary to preserve peace among nations. 
He is incensed that our Catholic streets should be profaned by the feet of these "ROTC folk." So incensed is he that, out ofthe goodness ofhis own Catholic heart, he wishes them drowned en masse at the bottom of St. Joseph's Lake. 
I suggest to Nolasco that before he endangers his own immortal soul by harbor­ing such a vicious thought, before he writes Father Tyson and urgesothers to do so, that he first "write a note" to Father Hesburgh. I urge Nolasco to write Father Hesburgh so that he may learn why our Catholic university proudlysponsors one ofthe highest percapita number of ROTC scholarships of any univer­sity in this nation, why Father Hesburgh him­self has presided over the annual tri-military review and why over the entrance to Sacred Heart Church are engraved the words "God, Country, Notre Dame." 
Dena Marino Eric Frederickson Notre Dame students 

Policy 
Viewpoint would like to hear from you. If you would like to respond to somethingyou've read in The Observer, why not write a letter to the editor. Let­ters should be well-written, typed, no more than 250 words in length and must bear the signature of the author. Letters which are not signed by the au­thor will notbe published. 
But letters are not the only way to voice your opinion in The Observer, Viewpoint also accepts guest columns. Guest columns should be well-written, typed, no more than 500 words in length and must bear the signature of the au­thor. A guest column, unlike letter to the editor, shouldnotbe a direct response to 
another editorial. 
The Observer reseroes the right to edit all material submitted to the Viewpoint deparbnentfor publication. 

-
hiopia. We realize we cannot completely erase the effects of a natural disaster with a few thousand dollars, yet we feel compelled to respond to the needs of our fellow world citizens. The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Charity Ball is our response to the crisis in Et­
hiopia.  We  would  like  it  to  be  a  family  
response.  
I  hereby  invite  the  Notre  Dame/Saint  

Mary's community -fellow students, faculty, staff and administrators, to join together to share the staples of life with those in need. As individuals, it is easy to feel insignificant and powerless in the face of a tremendous crisis. joined together as a community, we can affect the livesofothers. In the past, the members of our Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community have joined together to raise money for other charities, but our participation in this event will not be merely an act ofalmsgiving. 
I hope that the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Charity Ball will be an opportunity for us to recognize our bond to eachother as a commu­nity with ideals, resolution and perseverance. Please attend. 
Leslie V. Gordon Publicity Chairperson Notre Dame/SaintMary's Charity Ball 

One out of every ten ND students is ROTC 

Dear Editor: 
As a fellow memberof"our Catholic univer­sity," I am humiliated and outraged by Fausto Nolasco's letter of March 6 attacking the Notre Dame ROTC program and on the Irish Ranger Company in particular. 
The tone ofhis letter indicts the ROTC pro­gram and the students who support it as an alien presence at Notre Dame when, in fact, one out of every ten students at this Catholic university is enrolled in a ROTC program. 
The "obnoxious Army chants and painted faces" that so offended Nolasco on Saturday are legitimate and necessary parts ofany basic military training. The exercises Nolasco ob­served are not designed to insult idle passersby like himself but are used to aid in the instruction of future officers in the U.S. Army. 
If pressed on this point Nolasco would probably concede that cadence calling and camouflaged faces are not excessively in­jurious to his peace of mind and moral secur­ity, but he cries out that "carrying guns is going too far." Would he prefer that soldiers train with nothing but sticks? Would he prefer 

Admire those who have risked their freedom 
Dear Editor: 

I wish to respond in a small way to Brian McKeon's column concerning Professor Rice's legal defense of the perpetrators ofthe Florida abortion clinic bombings. McKeon in­itiates his piece with the statement: "Indifference about abortion is rare." I wonder if that is the case. Sure, opinion runs strong (most of the readers of The Observer would agree that abortion is the taking of human life), but I suggest that this response is one of the indifferences. To hold an opinion on such a vital matter and not to act upon it is like faith without works -it is dead. 
I suspect I disagree with Rice on so many issues that they could not be enumerated in a single letter. Nevertheless, I respect the man a great deal. He has seen a wrong in society, and he has acted upon it. He has often risked ridicule for his stance on abortion. His assis­tance in this case does not, as McKeon states, suggest "tacit approval ofthe bombings." That connection cannot be borne out logically. Rather, it does suggest that Rice will use a forum to stop the killing of the unborn. Tite 

passion he shows in acting as to make his life consonant with his faith is admirable, and he is thus a fine example of what Notre Dame is supposed to represent. 
As to the bombers themselves, I must admit I admire them as well. They have risked their freedom to halt the killing of the innocent. I admire the "Plowshares" group, the members ofwhich are now in jail for damaging a nuclear missile section at the GE plant in the King of Prussia, Pa. Both ofthese groups ofindividuals have sought to damage things that damage people. Our government, meanwhile, is build­ing a new bomb that can damage people and not things. In short, I admire those who have the passion to stand for life and even are will­ing to risk their freedom rather than con­travene the law oflove. 
Brother Benedict, O.S.B. Doctoral Candidate in Medieval History 


Charity ball can rally community for needy 

Dear Editor: 
I often feel guilty about being blessed with such great material wealth while others in the world starve. I have never lacked food, shelter or clothing. As a member of upper middle­class America, my possession of material wealth seems ordinary. My last need was a new $80 Sony Walkman. It seems very normal that I should own five pairs ofshoes and that I 
should eat a midnight snack when I study late at night. It is difficult for me to envision a life­style in which I could not eat three meals a day, live in a house with runningwater or own a pair ofshoes. 
Yet, I read in the newspapers that there are people who have no food, no shelter and no means to provide for themselves. In far away Ethiopia, a drought has blighted the land. Those people have nothing. They are fleeing their country on foot, searching for relieffrom their hunger. 
My friends and I recognize the radical dif­ference between our lifestyles here at Notre Dame/Saint Mary's and those who starve in Et-
Editorial Board 
Edttor·tn·Chtef. ~ ~ Bob Vonderheide Managing Editor .. Mark Worscheh News Edtfor .... . . Sarah Hamilton News Edttor . . ~ . Dan McCullough Satnt Mary's Edt tor Anne Monastyrski Sports Edttor~ ~. M1chael Sullivan Vtewpomt Edttor . . Dave Grote Features Ed1tor . ~Mary Healy Photo Edilor ~ ~ Pete Laches 
Department Managers 
Business Manager. .......... Dave T~iclet Controller . . . . . . . . ... ~ .Dave Stephenitch Advertising Manager ....... Anne Culligan Circulation Manager. . . . .. Jeff O"Neill Systems Manager. ~ ~ Mark B. Johnson Production Manager. .. ~ . . Chris Bowler ProJect Manager Amy Stephan 
Founded November 3, 1966 






Accent 



Mary EDen Harrington 
features staff writer 
E
veryone sends out non-verbal barrier to block themselves from messages: "Hands off." ''I'm outside forces. easy." "I'm available." "I'm de­One of the most obvious barriers pressed." that people put up is a body-cross. 
Rarely is this a conscious act on This involves having the hands or our part. Our eyes, posture, and arms in contact with one another in various gestures make up the large front of the body, forming a tempo· vocabulary of this non-verbal com­racy bar across the trunk. It is not a munication called body language. conscious act and is in fact subcon­

Humans have the most complex sciously camouflaged to keep it and highly developed set offacial from being too transparent. ' muscles in the animal kingdom, Some examples include reaching 
l 'i 
making possible an almost infinite across the body to straighten a range ofexpressions. In fact, it is sleeve, or to check a watch. Most of true that most bo4y language is the time the action will be per­transmitted, both consciously and formed when a person is nervous unconsciously, through these about a greeting or introduction

I 
expressions. that is about to take place, and is 

r ! 
most often done by the person Some of the most obvious forms about to be greeted rather than the f t ofnon-verbal communication in­greeter.
l 
clude facial expressions, yes/no Once initial greetings are over 

f. I, signals made by head or hand move­and conversation has started the I, 
~ ments, greetings and dismissals type ofbarrier changes from a fleet· 
I illustrated with raised or lowered ing body-cross to a more long­eyebrows and outstretched or lasting one. This is enacted by lowered arms and hands. Most of folding ones arms when standing or these gestures are unconscious and by either folding arms or crossing involuntary. Some, such as facial one's legs away from one's com­expressions, are inborn, as proven panion. by studies ofdeaf and blind infants. Quite the opposite occurs when 
While we can control our facial a person is not intimidated or trying
f. 
expressions to a certain extent to to close themselves offfrom others. 
mask what we feel (anger, anxiety, They display an open body posture 
interest), we cannot control our and are more free and open with eyes. A wide range ofemotions their arm and hand motions. from interest to aggression is com­Ifthey cross their legs, it will be municated through our gazes and toward the person they are speak­glances. Gaze behavior, the compl­ing with, not away. Their wrists will 

Steve Danca crosses his bodyshowing he wishe 
I 
icated series ofeye movements in be turned outward to invite con­which humans engage for different tact, and they will often tilt their or to make them feel more com­recognized. When compared to of my pen, so now I am practicing situations, ranges from fixed stares head or lean their body toward fortable, and then uses the experi­Americans, theJapanese are much holding (my hands) in my lap." indicating hostility, to cautious their companion. ence later in class discussion. more polite and reserved. They like Dave, a senior with much job gazes signifying interest, to brief Authority figures often use body As a teacher, Arndt says it is a larger cushion ofspace between interview experience, said that he glances indicating boredom or language to influence their underl­useful to have knowledge ofhow them, and often find Americans finds body language to be an impor­distaste. ings. Height and posture are very body language works. "You don't pushy because they are less tant part ofan interview. "Don't} In many situations it may be even important considerations when always need to have control, but reserved. Arabs on the other hand, fidget, hold your hands still, and more telling to gaze deeper into the projecting authority. People in sometimes you need to know how are more intense, and stare deeply look straight at the interviewer. But 
I 

eye to discover what feelings lie higher positions carry themselves to exert some." He also says that he into others' eyes. We feel this is most importantly, be your best self.
I 

beneath. When someone sees some­better than those with less power watches in class to determine his pushy behavior and often feel in­You are there to sell yourself. Your 
{ 

thing which interests or pleases or self-confidence. It has also been students' interest levels. "Ifthey are timidated by them. confidence will show in the way them, from a good poker hand to a proved that people who are taller writing too much its a sure sign that Overall, Arndt feels that students you carry yourself." pretty girl, their pupils dilate. or who have better carriage ad­they aren't really listening for com­can use body language more effec­Others, in turn, see as more attrac­vance farther in the business world prehension." tively "just by being aware ofit, and He feels comfortable in inter­tive someone with dilated pupils or than their shorter, equally-as­People can project either a posi­by noticing the variety ofactions views now and claims they have large eyes, and theirs will dilate in Qualified counterparts. tive or negative image through their and responses around them." He become almost second nature to response. Thus humans naturally body language, something that can believes that its use can help in him, but he added, "it's only your signal mutual attraction subcon­U Humans have the be very important during a job subtle ways, in regards to social future, the most they can do is say sciously. interview. According to Arndt, skills, jobs and raises. no."
most complex and 

This relationship between inter­positive signals include good Arndt said that he sometimes Dating and meeting people of the est and dilated pupils has been highly developed set posture: a relaxed, yet formal and makes students nervous when they opposite sex seems to be an impor­recognized and exploited over the upright position, and good eye know that he can read their behav­tant focus for body language appli· centuries. Hundreds ofyears ago of facial muscles in " contact. ior, especially in the consulting cation for students. One girl claims Italian courtesans used an extract of Showing nervousness and in· class where discussion on the sub­she "knows how to flirt," but also
the animal kingdom. 

Deadly Nightshade to dilate their timidation by glancing away from ject is such an integral part ofthe said that she thinks "manipulate pupils in the hopes ofappearing They also use their eyes to advan­an interviewer, fidgeting and having class. However, as he very·aptly has negative connotations." She also more attractive. The drug was tage by staring at subordinates until a closed and uptight posture, can added, "they are watching me too." said she has watched people in called belladonna, meaning they are intimidated into looking work to a distinct disadvantage When interviewed around elevators to see them get nervous. literally "beautiful woman." Jade away, especially when they are when interviewing. It is also impor­campus, students had various "You can have the advantage of dealers and salesmen in pre­being reprimanded. tant to keep within a proper role by opinions on body language and its knowing what it's for." revolutionary China purposely Students do use and read body not appearing too eager or ag· use in everyday situations. A Walsh wore dark glasses to prevent their language to their advantage. It gressive. sophomore claims she thinks about One Alumni sophomore claims eyes from revealing interest. becomes relevant i'n all types of it "when someone's talking to me. I that for him eyes play an important 
Not only the face can reveal what familiar situations, from dating to While body language is universal think about my posture, whether part in his social activities. "One of we are thinking. Posture is a big job interviews to student-teacher and has many social applications I'm in a closed or open position." the most crucial looks is the one tipoff to those observing others. interaction. In fact, according to there are both sexual and cultural right before you kiss a girl for the Friends and even groups will un­Prof. Steven Arndt, a statistician and differences in interpretation. As an first time. You have to read her eyes
'' While we can 
consciously mimic each other's experimental psychologist at Notre example, Arndt cited gaze behavior. and make a snap decision." 
control our facial 
gestures and behavior. Dame, body language can be helpful Females who use very much eye Overall, when discussing mem­This "postural echo" can take the anytime people interact. contact toward males are consid­bers ofthe opposite sex people said
expressions...we 
form ofechoed body positions, Arndt teaches Applied Consult­ered forward, while males who act that "closer is better," and that from matching crossed legs to ing, a CAPP class that involves body the same toward females are cannot control our body language in general is impor­identical rhythms and pattern•• in language to a great extent as it viewed as being dominant and tant for them. Students can use it to
eyes."

speech and head movements. shows students how to effectively pushy. give themselves an edge in a variety Friends also put themselves more at communicate in the business Another sopnomore ctatms sne ts ofsituations. ease by synchronizing their move­world. The class deals with such Astrong gaze between two males nervous about other people's abili­ments as they talk. It is easy to dis­necessities as how to open and is seen as outright aggression. Arndt ties to read her, especially her tinguish who is taking sides in an close a conversation and how to ask also noted that many animals use boyfriend. "IfI'm ever mad it's bad, 
Correction
argument by observing their questions and converse with a body language, especially the I can't hide it from him. (Once) I Because ofa production error,
postures and body rhythms and client or associate. primates. In fact, if you stare long had my legs crossed away from him the reporters for two of 
gestures. The class revolves around a dis­and hard enough at a chimpanzee and he said something." 
Thursday's radio station storiesWatching body language can give cussion format and Arndt hand­or gorilla in the zoo, he will try to were inadvertently reversed. Pat us a clue as to what mood someone picks the members to keep the size attack you through the bars. She now claims to be more con­Beaudine wrote the story onis in. Ifa person does not want to be down. He sometimes uses body Cultural differences can be a scious about her behavior, noticing WMMS and Don Seymour wrotebothered, or feels threatened in language in the interview either to problem in business and personal her own fidgeting for example, "In 
rh,. story on W7ZP 

some way, he or she will put up a place the students at a disadvantage relationships if they are not Core class I pull the top on and off 
--------~----------------------~~--------~----~--------------------------~----~~-----------------.----~-------­
Tuesday, March 12, 1985 -page 6 -page 7 
1 wit 
out saying a wor 




to be alone with his reading. 

Marlene Hauck turns her eyes and face away from the stare ofPat Lorch. 
Photos by Pete Laches 


Laterally looking at each side of the body 
Mary Ellen Hanington 
features staff writer 
A 
great deal of human behav­ior is asymmetrical. Laterality occurs when the ac­tion demands more from one side ofthe body than the other. We favor one side when we wink, clasp our hands, clap, cock an eyebrow, fold our arms or cross our legs. This is an uncon­scious and spontaneous act on our part. 
About 1 0 percent ofthe world's population is left handed, this bias being fixed after a series ofpreference shifts between birth and 4 years ofage. Unfortunately, in many cultures lefthandedness has been 
ridiculed, discouraged and even punished. Even the words for "left" in many languages have negative connotations. 
Gauche in French, means awkward or clumsy; "sinister" is derived from the the Latin word for left, sinistra; the Italian word mancino also means crooked or maimed and the Portugese canboto means weak or clumsy. And in English, ofcourse, "right" means "correct." 
Also inherent to being lef­thanded is the difficulty encoun­tered in everyday situations. We all shake hands with our right hands, finding "lefty" tools such as scissors, potato peelers and fountain pens can be a frustrat­ing task. Restaurants always 
serve as is convenient to right banders, and so many other daily situations cater to those who lean to their right hand. 
However, what most people do not realize is that there is more to being righthanded or lefthanded than writing, which is how the preference is normally determined. There are many one-sided actions, but not all of them are performed by the same side. In fact, right/left-biased studies have shown that al­though people do show a marked preference for one side ofthe body,this bias in general only covers approximately two­thirds ofthe actions. 
While people stay true-to-bias while performing one-handed actions, such as waving, scratch­ing and writing, and non-handed actions including cocking the 
head and jutting out a hip, when they perform two-handed ac­tions like threading a needle or clasping their hands, it is easy to 
to distinguish between the ac­
tive hand and the passive hand, 
and the bias becomes less dis­
tinct. 
Ifyou are interested there is a 
way you can do to determine 
just how right-biased or left­
biased you are. You know how 
you write, but, are you right· 
eyed or left-eyed? Right or left­
thumbed? Are you a 
right-clapper or a left-clapper? 
Here is a simple test you can do 
for yourself, just make sure that 
you are careful, you might get 
some strange looks ifyou are in a public place. 

•Clasp 
your hands. Which thumb is on top? 

•See 
a cute person across the room. Wink one eye. Which eye does the winking? 

•
Pretend Notre Dame is in the NCAA Final Four. Start clapping. Which hand is uppermost? 

•
Fold your arms. Which forearm is uppermost? 

•Pretend 
to be an accounting major. Count to three on your fingers using the forefinger of your other hand. Which forefinger do you use? 

•Tilt 
your head. Which shoulder does it touch? 

•Be 
domestic. Pretend to thread a needle. Which hand is guiding the thread? 

•Feign 
surprise. Raise one eyebrow. Which eyebrow is it? 


•
Look at a distant object and point at it. Close one eye. Now change eyes. Which eye was open when the object remained lined up with your finger? 

•Stand 
up and look authoritative. Put your hands behind your back. Which hand is holding the other? 



By now you realize that you are not totally devoted to one side ofyour body. You probably did not answer either "right" or "left" to every question, ifyou did you are a little more biased than average to one side, but there are things that you do better with the other. 
So the next time you are eating and bumping elbows with someone in the dining hall be· cause they are eating with the "wrong" hand, try to have a little empathy and be open-handed 

about the matter. 


..... 

I 



Sports Briefs 
Bookstore Basketball still has a t'ew openings left for this year's tournament. Additional registration will be held today on a first-come, first-served basis from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. in the AnTos­tal office on the second floor of LaFortune.-The Observer 
The ND/SMC Sailing Club will be meeting tomorrow at 6:30p.m. in O'Shaughnessy room 204.-The Observer 
The ND Women's Soccer Club will be meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the basement of Breen-Phillips Hall. Anyone who has played indoor or outdoor soccer for the club should attend. For more information, call Karen at 283-1293. -The Obseroer 
The NCAA basketball tournamentwillbe the topic ofdiscussion on "Speaking ofSports" when it airs tonight at 9 p.m. on WVFI AM-64. listeners may talk with cohosts Chuck Freeby and Kevin Herbert by calling 239-6400. -The Observer 

Tuesday, March 12, 1985 -page 8 
The ND Rowing Club will be meeting tonight in room 123 ofNieuwland Science Hall at 8 p.m. Members must pay the balance of trip cost at the meeting. -The Obseroer 
NVA spring sports entry deadlines are tomorrow. Spring events include men's interhall baseball, men's in­terhall softball, women's interhall softball. graduate men's softball, women's interhall soccer, men's interhall soccer and men's interhall floor hockey. Team rosters must be registered at the NVA office for all of these events. For more information, contact the NVA office at 239-6100.-The Observer 
A women's water polo club is now forming. Anyone interested should attend a meeting tomorrow at I 0 p.m. in the LaFortune lobby. For more information, call Marianne Bailey at 283-3891. -The Observer 
The MS softball tournament has been res­cheduled to March 26-31. Teams of five men and five women may register in the LaFortune lobby tomorrow from 7:30p.m. to 9:30 
p.m. The registration fee is S 10, which goes to MS. The winning team will win dinner at Amigo's restaurant. For more information, call Steve at 283-1045. -The Observer 
Gillen 
continued/rom page 12 
says. "You have to be organized, be able to recruit, and get to know the kids, the administrators, and the press. And Digger's very good at doing these things, so I've picked up a lot from him. 
"Sometimes great players are great coaches, but other times they don't relate to somebody who doesn't have their great ability. Me, I didn't play much in college," con­tinues the 1968 Fairfield graduate. "I've always loved sports and really enjoy coaching." 
It may not be all that long before Gillen gets the opportunity to see if he, too, can be a great coach. 
The Obserr•er ~otro.: Dame: office. locatt:d on lh~· third floor of l.al'ortunc Stud~·nt Cc:ntn. accepts classifinl al.h'nti~ing from 9 a.m until ·t p.m. ,\lond;.n through Frida\·. Th(' Ohsert'('r Saint \lan·'s oftkc. hKatnl on tilt' third floor of Haggar Collc:gt· Ccntt·r. an:cpts cl.ts~1tinh from 12 :'>0 p.m until ~ p.m...\1on· day though friday. lkadlin~· for nc,.t-da\ c.:la!»~itint~ i~ 5 p.m. All da!'>sitkd., muM he pre:paid. citht-r in pnson or h~ mai I < hargt· is I 0 ~·c:nb per fivt·charac



Classifieds 

ters n day. 
!!REWARD'! A ten percent reward offered NEED AIDE TO MADISON,WI FOR OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, RIDE NEEDED TO O'HARE 3/15 CALL MARCO ISLAND PARTY--Anyone inter­for the return of a Timex men's wnstwatch SPRING BREAK. WILL SHARE CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., CLARA 284-5012. ested in attending a party at my house in
NOTICES lost on March 1 between Keenan and USUAL:CALL TOM AT 1503 ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. Marco Island over Spring Break please Cushmg Aud. Return it, make yourself lost:p.wedge on 13th contact Joe or Scott at 1 630 before feel good, and make a few bucks in the HELP NEED RIDE FOR TWO TO DEN· green;REWARD;Erik 1623 Thursday night. 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8997 

process. Call x3327 VER WILLING TO SHARE EXPENSES FREE DRINK WITH YOUR SUB. CALL ................. ' .............or.•.................... ······ CALL2187 ANYTIME THE YELLOW SUB FOR DELIVERY AT NAWWW,MAN Take the party bus to Ft. Laud. $40 round TYPING AVAILABLE 
Lost:Spalding Executive PITCHING 272-4453 MQ-TH 8-11pm FR-SA 8pm-MA JAWL HURTS CUZ OF THE SPRING trip. call Tom 232-0502 287-4082 
WEDGE:Ieft on 13th green;REWARD of­NEED RIDE FOR 2 TO DENVER 2187 1am THAWL' fered;call Erik at1623. CALL ANYTIME L7 DO YOU WANT HIM? OR DO YOU .... NDTheology ANARCHY .. NOW!!' WANT ME? CUZ I WANT YOU P WORDPROCESSING 
LOST: Gold earring between Stepan and TAMPA..... ORLANDO .•..•KEY WEST Meet Your Mejor277-6045 

PW Sat. n1ght. If you happen to have RIDERS WANTED TO ANY OF THESE TONIGHT IRISH GARDENS CEE CEE ----Yes, that's right, YOU! found it, please call 2958 because it AREAS. LEAVING IN TWO DAYS (THAT 7:00..8:00 PM SALE (Williams). That was nice of you to offer wasn't mine and someone is going to be a IS WEDNESDAY PM 3/13). TRAVELL­341 O'Shat Roses-$2.00 Ronnie a helping hand. Washington D.C. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL 

little upset with me. ING IN A LUXURY R.V.!! THOSE WITH Come and dlscuaa the new SALE will NEVER be MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
............ WEAK STOMACHS NEED NOT CALL . revlaed mtljor programtl IRISH GARDENS LOST: NOTRE DAME HAT IN LOBBY OF OTHERS CALL 232-0739 fMturlng flttalblllty and ATTENTION ALL STUDENT GOVERN­
Word Processing/Typing-also copying. SOUTH DINING HALL. CALL TIM 2543 choice of apeci.Uzation. MENT CABINET APPLICANTS!!! There Call Andrea 283-3880 -9 a.m. to 11 :00 
IF YOU HAVE IT. RIDERS NEEDED to Fort Lauderdale. DEAR STEPANIE. Congrats on your li­will be a mandatory meeting for all those 
p.m. 

leaving Friday only $70. Call Jack at brary showcase' Hope you enjoy the wea­that applied for positions in Student Gov· FOUND: CROSS PEN AND PENCIL IN 1527 or Andy at 1176. GUITAR PLAYER LOOKING TO START ther of South Padre. But most of all ernment lor 1985-1986 on Weds. night at TYPING 
ROOM 124 NIEULAND SCIENCE BLDG A BAND OR JOIN AN EXISTING ONE. THANK YOU for putting up with me these 7:00p.m. in the New Orleans Room Jackie Boggs 
CALL TIM 2543 TO IDENTIFY. RIDE NEEDED CHARLOTIE.NC OR NEEDS All THE HELP HE CAN GET. past few months. I know it was difficult at LaFortune. Please attend. Thanks. Bill 884-8793 
NEARBY SPRING BREAK WILL SHARE CALL ANDY 3039 times. Thank you again and enjoy your Healy and Duane Lawrence Found Gold Charm-Call Mary Zo at 2619. EXPENSES CAN LEAVE TH OR FRI break. love your third roomate. CALL SUSAN 4210 TO ANYBODY INTERESTED IN FORM­
BUFFALO BUS leaving for break March 

ING A POLO CLUB THERE WILL BE A STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD "THE KATHY. KAREN, KATHY, AND 15 at 3:00p.m. $45 Round trip. Anyone 
LOST: Green camouflage wallet on Riders needed to DC area for break. MEETING AT LAFORTUNE UTILE LEADER IN ENTERTAINMENT" IS DORENE---HAVE YOU PURCHASED destined for Cleveland welcome for $35. 
Friday. Poss1bly taken from my room and Leav1ng Sunday morning after NCAA·s. THEATRE WEDNESDAY 13 MARCH AT SPONSORING A BUS TO O'HARE! The ALL THAT YOU WILL NEED FOR Call 4209 for into 
discarded between Howard Hall and Holy Call Billy at 2129. 6.00PM. NO HORSEBACK RIDING EX­bus leaves Friday. March 15 at 3pm BREAK? REMEMBER: JUST 3 MORE Cross HaH. Anyone who finds wallet or its PERIENCE NECESSARY. Indiana time, returns on Sunday. March DAYS AND WE'RE OFF! AND THE all people gomg on the jeff "FlOCH" trip to 
contents can pick up senous cash flow for 24 at 6 pm Chicago time. The price is $10 PLANE WAITS FOR NO ONE(thatflorida. must be pa1d in full by 3/14. 1005 
break. Call Bob Madden at 2487 if found. SHIP OUT THE HOMELESS!!! each way. Bring checks made out to SAB means you Dorene. you·re packing byllanner. cash only. we will leave at 4 on FOR SALE I need a nde to O'Hare on Fnday. March to the Student Activities Board offices. Wednesday 01' else I'm selling your
3/15 from the bus stop 

15' ticket!!) LISA. If you are Chicago-bound on that day LeMans g~rls: Nice try at the sock hop on 
Applications are now being accepted for 

.fOR RENT Is It True You Can Buy Jeeps for $44 and have some space, Fnday. Throw another one and we'll be Hey dudes (mark, Mike and Mark)1985-86 IRISH GARDENS MANAGER 
Call Hank at 2084. there. Paul & Bob Whatever happened to white sheets? 
Application forms at through the U S. government? Get the
available IG-· 

(W1II Hare usual) Watch out for those curbs. Mark, they'll
facts today! Call 1-312-742-1142 ext. ·············· 
deadline: Wed. 3/13 ALBUMS ALBUMS ALBUMS Spring get you every time. See any drunk7316.

SUBLET LG 2BR APT APRIL. 1ST 232-ciMnlng!!l All Albums In atock on ule cripples around the Ghetto lately? I think THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD, 
4355 JIM TABOR CORE COURSE for $7.00 or IHa, all thia week. Only at he's with Mike's mom making a movie.
Supersever tix 58-Boston return 21/3­"THE LEADER IN ENTERTAINMENT' IS Player of the week ROCK du lac on 1at floor Lafortune. Mark, will your car ever be the same?

25/3 Call 232-6085 SPONSORING A BUS TO O'HARE. The 

MaraCuahwa Maybe we snould get Vidal to call for a talu 
bus leaves Friday, March 15 at 3pm TDK SA90'1 atilt on sale at ROCK du leave Mark and Julie in the back seat THE SUN, THE SAND, AND THE SURF Indiana time and returns Sunday, March 

lac. Today only!! After 3 PM. Thanks for a great weekend in DaytonSPRING BREAK IS ALMOST HERE AND 24 at 6 pm Chicago time. The trip costs 
NEED RIDERS TO LAUDERDALE guys. See ya. Meg. Liz. Diane. Anna and YOU DON'T HAVE PLANS GET A DIS­$10 each way. Bring money to the SAB LEAVING WED 5:00. 277-6740 Need R1de to O'Hare!!' Can leave early DianeCOUNT ON AN SAB TRIP TO FT.
offices. 

WANTED morning. Friday. 3/15. Will share ex­
LAUDERDALE CALL283-38 15 AFTER 4 The Schwerha has lost all control! penses. Amy 1339 

PM To the person who "accidentally" took my LONG ISLANDERS: YOU NEED A jean jacket Sat. nile at the Club House, I
I'm going to marry Elaine Robinson. 

RETURN AIRPLANE TICKET ON SUN­want my keys. I.D.. and license back. If Need ride to Chicago's O'Hare leaving
DAY 24 FROM L.l. TO SOUTH BEND. I you want the coat I'll give you $40 to buy
LOST/FOUND 

To the H'a: This IS just to see if you really 
RIDE TO NEWARK NEEDED. CAN Wed. March 13 at about 4:00 in the after­

HAVE ONE AND ITS YOURS FOR another one. but I want MINE bac~ be­LEAVE ANY nME AFTER THURSDAY noon. Call Mary Zo at 2619. 
read the personals. Thanks for a great
$50.00. CALL GERRY AT 4521. cause my brother gave it to me before he
weekendMOANING, MARCH 14. WILL SHARE was killed. Please return it. its very impor­
LOST: Pendant on a silver chain some­-'Pup
USUAL. CALL MIKE AT a1745. 

It staned out so easy tant. Call Cathleen at SMC 5519 where between South Dining Hall. the 
thougnr we had it made Rock, and the ACC Wednesday evening, 
lost em on tile tn-state 

Sheila Whalen...B.A.B.A.R.A. Go South.
February 13. Pendant has a rose painted Okay. some of usdon·t have allot our dots
TICKETS thank God you wore your shades 

McCandless 5 South! 
on a black background. with a silver back­RIDERS needed to CINCINNATI for We searched rile road for hours connected. So you wanna do something ing. It has great ser.timental value. about it?
Spr1ng Break. leaving 3/15. Call Dave at put out an APB 

NEED 2 RIDERS TO CENTRAL FLAREWARD:Does a pan of brown1es and 
277-3953 evenings for details. never thought you'd make it 284-5172 (LATE) 

my undying gratitude sound gOOd? If MEXICAN LUNCH 
NCAA TIX FOR SALE. 2n-8795 that Shmeg amazes me" found please call Karen x2145. Center for Social Concerns 
ROOMMATE NEEDED: '84 grad seeks That night we lounged at Chuc1t.1es 

Need ride to NO. NJ, NY area for SpringThursday, March 14Domer roommate for 2-bdrm apt in Bir­TICKETS FOR NCAA'S round 1 & 2 
sipping our iced teas break. Call Janet at 284-4340.
LOST: GOLD CHAIN BREACELET BE­11 :30-t :30
mingham, MI. Call 272-8617 if relocating thur&set call ROBT. 2 3 2-8 3 0 6 I can't believe that Gandhi TWEEN (OR IN) CAMPUS MINISTRY, 

in Detroit area. really propositioned me. To the "Big Jill" (Bill) Christian THE GREAT ZAHM HALL & FARLEY. 
I've got what you want. you·ve got what 011 no, the brass one, we declared-

We Love our R.A
THURSDAY

SENTIMENTAL VALUE. PLEASE Need a ride to Rochester. NY for Spring M.S. needs 3 NCAA TIX FOR SALE-NO It's like an arctic zone' You are the boss and our friendRETURN IF FOUND FOR REWARD. Break. Would like to leave after NCAA vs. Oregon St. To highest brdder(s) by I guess its much more cozy Go Mex1can1 Have a happy day CALL LAURIE AT 4039. game on 3/16. Terry 1888. Wed. at 6:00 p.m. ALL PROCEEDS GO than sleeping on the phone. Lunch 1 1 :30-1:30 
Center for Social Concerns 

TO M.S. CALL Enc at 1966 Wasted away the weelt.end CARRIE LYNCH (I wrote your last name!) lost:woman s suit.greenish grey wool skir1 Relatrves traveling from El S.lvador to with Ky and all the boys March 14 
No thiS isn't a tooth chewing adand jacket with a berge blouse. lost on see beloved president. So, I need many NEED 1 NCAA t1cket for Sat. games Pete Hung out in the bathroom It's a HAPPY BIRTHDAY ad 
Friday,Mar 2. if found please call Kelly· COMMENCEMEN-T tickets Call38t1 or bought soma brand new toys

4325 1 91What a YUCKY year 
MEXICAN LUNCH 
232-0659 you may lind a guerilla at your door. Lots of fun and laughter­Hope it's great Thurs. 1 1 :30-1 :30 
PLEASE HELP! My friend plays fOI' Can't ask for better friends. 
love Clare
Proceeds to St. Stephan·s WE ARE DESPERATE' Ride needed lor PURDUE & I really want to see his game Waiting for the time atCSC

1 or 2 people TO or NEAR PADRE IS­Thur. afternoon. Call MARYPAT284· when we can do it once again' RAHAAH AAH LAND' CALL MICHELLE OR KAREN' 5419 
FORRRA 2674 -TandC 
KIMKIMK. 

-CARMEN'S BIRTHDAY SERVICES 
LOST: THREE LETTERS ADDRESSED HAVE A NICE DAY' 
"We spec1BI1ze m seafood... fresh crabs
TO INDIANA BELL, AND M.P.SMITH (CATCHY EH?) 
delivered to our customers daily. · 
ON OR ABOUT 2/28. IF FOUND THE GREAT BOOKS-THE GREAT LOVE THE GIRLS FROM MCC 3 SO. PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 277-3828. MINDS. MEET FACULTY AND STU­
PERSONALS 
REWARD DENTS OF THE PROGRAM OF
NEED TWO (2) RIDES TO NEW JER­
. . . . . .. . . . LIBERAL STUDIES. TUESDAY, MARCH
SEY FOR SPRING BREAK. CALL LOST: ONE TATTERED PUMA GYM SARAH, 1333. 

12.7:00 PM GRACE PIT. PREGNANT? NEED HELP? CALL 234-'84 Londoners, look here!
BAG ON 3/4. I NEED THE LETTER IN 

0363. 24 hour hothne/tree pregnancy test VOTE VORE FOR VICE Lers get together and spend two more
THERE YOU CAN KEEP THE TAPES. Need ride to Chicago·s O'Hare leav1ng Beef and the barbanan say : hours in London. Ameri!CIIn Werewolf inavailable WOMEN'S CARE CENTER 
MIKE 277-3828 Wed. March 13 around4:30 Call Mary Zo "TOWNIE FEVER ... CATCH IT!!!" 
London Tuesday night at 11. (Aboutat 2619. 
90p. the pnce of a gOOd pint.)lf you have
HELP!! Did you find my KEYS? I lost them ND MEN VARSITY SWIMMERS. FEEL 

any questtons et ell, ask Jenny. she
on Sat. March 2 at the Zodiac Club party m Ride needed to COLUMBUS. OH for THE ARMS... FEEL THE LEGS..FEEL HAPPY B-DAY 19! DAVID. Help him doesn t know anythmg St. Mary's Clubhouse. There are 6 keys spnng break-Eric X2585 THE STUBBLE. PARTY-call this CALIFORNIA SWEETIE on a ring with a gold "M" on it. If you found THE SUN, THE SNOW, THE 4323. love. Your Angel. L YNSEY. 
Dave and Rob
them. please call me· I really need them RIDERS needed tor FT.LAUD. real NIGHTUFE, THE MOUNTAINS. SKI ND MEN VARSITY SWIMMERS..FEEL 

Mur.. Mur.. Mur.. Mur'
back. Thanks' Molly x4003 cheap. CALL 232-8617233-6589 THE BEST THIS SPRING BREAK­THE ARMS... FEEL THE LEGS...FEEL Not only IS Bnan Dorin~ a solid-gold dan­Love ya. The D2 Women
ASPEN, COLORADO. $387 INCLUDES THE STUBBLE .. cer; he's also a y1Jpp1e... TO WHOEVER TOOK MY BOOKBAG WASHINGTON D.C. TRANSPORT A nON, 6 DAY UFT 
Jackie.
FROM THE BOOKSTORE FRIDAY Are You Heading in the Direction of Our PASS, 7 NIGHTS LODGING RIGHT ON INFORMATIONAL MEETING lor all See. I didn t forget. 

MOANING-WOULD YOU AT LEAST Nat1on s Capital for Spring Break ?1?1 I THE SLOPES! CALL MIKE AT 283-3573 those going on the SAB tnps to Ft. I just can't PUT MY NOTES AND GLASSES BACK DESPERATELY need a nde to the D.C, FOR INFORMATION OR TO SIGN-UP. Lauderdale and Daytona Beach 1n the bel1eve Woodstock IS a yupp1e' 
HAPPY 2111 BIRTHOAY
SO I CAN READ AGAIN Maryland. No Vir-gin1a area. Can leave Little Theater of the La Fortune on Wed­(1 day late) 

anyt1me. Please call Mitch at 1305 NEED EXTRA $. SELL YOUR CLASS nesday. March 13. AU those on bus A ATTENTION all students Signed up for 
Tricla Bevelock
Lost: MY SKI CAP; 1fs black With several Thanks. BOOKS AT PANDORA'S BOOKS.937 must be there at 7 pm. A1ders on bus B the SENIOR CLASS TRIP TO DAYTONA Billwhite and grey str1pes: could be SO.BEND AVE.M-F B!T12·4PM WE must be there at 8 pm. Daytona people A MANDATORY meet1ng Will be held anywhere: Please call Andy ]1176. EMERGEMCYII NEED RIDERS TO D.C ALSO OFFER A 3 DAY SERVICE FOR must be there at 9 pm. If you don't know Thursday at 7:00 pm at the LaFortune THANKS' CALL3283 USED BOOKS what bus you are on. call239-7757. little theater. 

The Observer Tuesday, March 12, 1985-page 9 
Barlow, Rivers catch most awards at last night's basketball banquet 
ByJEFF BLUMB 
AssistantSports Editor 
Bigger things are on the horizon for the Notre Dame basketball team, but last night was a time to sit back and take a look at what the Irish have already accomplished this season. The team held its annual banquet, where awards were given out with a little bit ofneedling. 
To probably no one's surprise, 
freshman guard David Rivers and junior tri-captain Ken Barlow took home most of the hardware. The only trouble was, Barlow was not present at the affair, a victim ofsteep throat which team trainer Skip Meyer recommended he rest. 
Rivers received the Clutch Player of the Year Award, in addition to being honored as Assist Leader. He also shared the MVP Award from the Notre Dame National Monogram 

~~--------------------­
The Observer-
The independent student newspaper serving 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting ap­
plications for the following positions: 
Assistant News Editors News Copy Editors 
Assistant Viewpoint Editor 
Viewpoint Copy Editors 
Questions should be directed to Keith Har­
rison or Joe Murphy. Resumes and personal statements are due Thursday, March 14. 
Club with Barlow, whose mother 
was present to accept the plaque. 
Barlow also was given the 
Rebcunding Award and the Cap­
tain's Award, which he shared with 
Tim Kempton and jim Dolan. 
Kempton earned the Fr. Tom Bren­
nan Award (for best free throw 
shooting percentage) for the second 
year in a row. Dolan, meanwhile, 
was the recipient of Best Defensive 
Player for a second consecutive year. 
Perhaps hinting at what is to come in the future from forward Donald Royal, the sophomore received the identical two awards given to Bar­low at last year's banquet, Most Ac­curate Shooter and Most Improved Player. 
The trio of seniors, Dan Duff, Barry Spencer, and Casey Newell, each were given one award. Duff was presented the Attitude Award, while Spencer was honored as Com­eback Player of the Year. Newell received the Student-Athlete Award from the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley for the second straight year. 
Backcourt partners of Rivers and Duff, sophomore Scott Hicks and junior joseph Price, also shared an honor, being named co-winners of the Role Player Award. 


TheNROTC CollegeProgram. $2,000ExpenseMoneyAnd ANavyOfficerCommission. 
The two-year NROTC College Program offers you two years of expense money that's worth up to S2,000 plus the challenge of becoming a Navy officer with early responsibilities and decision-making authority. 
During your last two years in college the Navy pays for uniforms, NROTC textbooks, and an allowance of SIOO a month for up to 20 months. Upon graduation and completion of requirements, you become a Navy officer, with important decision-making responsibilities. 
Call your Navy representative for more information on this challenging program. 
stop by the ROTC building on the Notre Dame campus, or dial 239-7274/6442 and ask for LT Wachtl. 
_NavyOfficers GetResponsibilityFast._ 

Tomorrow's NCAA tournament scheduled practice times 
Ohio  12 00-1 :00  
Purdue  1:00-2.00  
Kansas  2 00-3 00  
Auburn  3:00-4 00  
North Carolina  5:00-6 00  
Notre Dame  6 00-7 00  
Middle Tennessee  7 00-8 00  
Oregon State  8:00-.9 00  

All practices are open to the public in the ACC Arena 
ND jumpers miss final round at NCAA meet 
By MIKE SZ\'MANSKI  a  jump that would have qualified  
Sports Writer  him. He felt a different atmosphere  
at the Carrier Dome in Syracuse and  
Although neither made the finals  could  not consistently set his ap­ 
at the NCAA Indoor Track Cham·  proach steps.  "Patterson gave  his  
pionships,  Uyod  Constable  and  best shot, but  was  unlucky," said  
James Patterson gained valuable ex- Kelly.  
perience at their first national meet.  Both  jumpers  feel  more  com­ 
Constable was ranked 12th best high  fortable  competing  outdoors  and  
jumper out  of l 5 in the country  Patterson will concentrate on main­ 
going into the meet, and Patterson  taining high  knee  lift  to  alleviate  
came in with the ninth best ranking  fouls.  
among 21 long jumpers.  "My best performances have been  
Constable did not make the 7-foot  outdoors and I am looking forward  
opening height "because he did not  to the outdoor nationals," said Con­ 
have solid control ofhis nervous en-,  stable.  
ergy and emotions," said coach Ed  The qualifying heights of 7'-3 and  
Kelly.  1/2" for the high jump and 25'-1 and  
Constable said he was not in the  1/2" for the long jump underscore  

right state of mind but added the the Constable and Patterson's ac­
meet was a very good experience since he studied other jumpers' techniques and learned about the national meet. 
Patterson was disappointed with not making t~e finals after fouling on 
PROFESSIONAL RESUME PREPARATION SERVICE 

Actual retail fee of $50 for service. 40% discount to Notre Dame students. We provide 1-1112 hour consultation to individualize your resume, highlighting your skills, personality, and hidden abilities. Price also includes 25 printed resumes on stationery of your choice, plus envelopes. 
Phone 289-7345 for appointment 
AMTRAK FDR SPRINEi BREAK NEW 4D% DFF FARES 
PERK** OFF-PERK 
'1!1.25  •ta.zs  
27.DD  t4.5D  
2t.DD  tt.DD  
BS.DD  tB.SD  
I  

* * P•ak far•• ar• •ff•ctiv• b•tw••n tD a.m. and 
4 p.m. fridays. Sundays and holidays. Th• r•duc•d aff-p•ak pric•• apply far all ath•r d•partur• tim••· 

Amtrak is offering these fantastic fares for many other destinations not listed above. These savings can also be combined with family and Senior Citizen discounts. But Amtrak offers more than low fares. On board, you can stretch our in a wide reclining seat and relax. Or stroll to the Amcafe for a hot or cold sandwich and beverage. 
The Niles station is located just 10-15 minutes from campus and offers a full range of departure tim~s. 

Nile• ta Chica,.a Nile• ta Ann Rrbar Niles ta Lan•iiVJ Nile• ta Detrait 

heivements. 
Coach joe Piane said their NCAA experience will pay dividends and added "making the NCAA meet is only a pipe dream for hundreds of jumpers nationwide." 
Hoyas keep top spot as Redmen slip 
A.s8ociated Press 
Georgetown, Michigan, St. John's and Oklahoma, the top four seeds in this week's NCAA tournament, finished in that order yesterday in the final Associated Press college basketball poll. 
The Hoyas, 30-2 and the top seed in the East Region, were the unani­mous choke of the nationwide panel of 63 sports writers and broadcasters, finishing with l ,260 points. 
Michigan, the Big Ten champion and top seed in the Southeast Region, improved from third to second with 1,1 75 points. 
St. John's, which was the only other team to hold the top spot in the poll, fell to third with 1,124 points after suffering its third loss of the season, 92-80, to Georgetown in the finals ofthe Big East tournament. 
Top Twenty 

1. Georgetown (63)  30-2  1260  
2. Michigan  25-3  1175  
3. St. John·s  27-3  1124  
4. Oklahoma  28-5  1061  
5. MemphiS St.  27-3  1004  
6. Georgia Tech  24-7  901  
7. North Garolina  24-8  794  
8. Louisiana Tech  • 27-2  737  
9. Nev.-Las Vegas  27-3  724  
10. Duke  22-7  653  
11. Va. Commonwealth  25-5  581  
12. lllirlOIS  24-8  518  
13. Kansas  25-7  506  
14. Loyola  25-5  417  
15. Syracuse  21-8  351  
16. N. Garolina St.  20-9  262  
17. Texas Tech  23-7  222  
18. Tulsa  23-7  138  
19. Georgia  21-8  132  
20. Louisiana St.  19-9  105  


1 
\ 
l
' 

\ 
.. 
.,\ 
\ 
~ 
t 
~ ~ 
~ 
~ ~ 
~ 
t ~ 
~ ~ ~ 
I ~ 
~ ~ 
) 
~ 
\ 
.. ·:'\ 
. 
\ 
~ 
-· 
The Observer Tuesday, March 12, 1985 -page 10 
ND men's tennis team welcomes 
The.Dbserver

nine new faces to successful line-up 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre 
notably marked by the March 18 worked hard over the summer,"

By MARC RAMIREZ 
Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for
date with the Trojans. notes Fallon, "and it really showed

Sports Writer 
"Southern Cal is No. 2 in the whc, he came back in the fall. The 

the following positions: 
New faces. c..mntry," says Fallon. "They're the key thing "te has shown is that he There ace quite a few of them on toughest single team we'll play. If we l·.-ows how to win, and he'll do that a the 1985 edition ofthe Notre Dame can play respectably against them, lot before the year is over." 
Assistant Sports Editor (2)
tennis team -nine, to be exact -and we can gain a lot ofconfidence." At the No. 6 spot is freshman Paul Coach Tom Fallon, now in his 29th The Irish will also be facing Yale Daggs, a Lake Park, Fla., native. "He's 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
year at the Irish helm, isn't hesitant and Dartmouth in the Claremont playing very well at this point," says to admit that could be a problem. Tournament the weekend of March Fallon. "He's got a good serve-and­But only in the early going, mind 22-24. volley game, which is good for the you. At the No. 1 and No. 2 positions sixth position. He doesn't have a lot "Our problem is experience," for the Irish will be two familiar ofexperience, but I think he'll do all 
Questions about these positions should be directed 
says Fallon, who surpassed the 600-faces, team captain Joe Nelligan and right." 
to Jeff Blumb at the Observer office. Personal 
win career mark last season. "Or Mike Gibbons, who last year set the None of the doubles combina­
statements and resumes are due Friday, March 15, 
rather, lack of it. We have a very Notre Dame record for most vic­tions from a year ago are back, so Fal­
at5p.m.
young bunch of kids this year. Two tories in a season with 28. lon has done some experimenting. of them are experienced, maybe Nelligan posted a 20-1 7 record However, he realizes that this three. last year to reach the 20-win plateau season's teams probably won't be 
"The people we lost were in the for the first time in his career. The able to equal the 82-33 record 

CJh.e dfttj. & Ldteu ~tudent dfdvij.oty Council
lower brackets, so that's where we LaGrange Park, Ill., junioralso tallied posted by last year's. "A good will be tested. Ifour younger people a 28-7 mark in doubles play. doubles team needs to play together 
ptuentj. 

come through, though, we could be Gibbons, a senior from Miami, for a while, and with the makeup of a very good team." Fla., gained a lot ofexperience at the this team, that just isn't possible No. 1 spot last season. Fallon now. We're just going to have to try 
MEET YOUR MAJOR 
In order to post their 7th con­describes Gibbons as "a deceptive to find the right combinations and player who knows how to win. We hope those people can do the job."

secutive 20-win campaign, the Irish 
DATE DEPARTMENT LOCATION TIME 
will have to be good. Twenty-win need people in our lineup with that The premier tandem as ofnow has seasons are a tradition now, andwith kind of experience. He can handle been the team of Gibbons and 
Clue.j_, Cngfi~ 210 <f)'.:Sh.ag 4:30-;5:30
usual opponents such as Michigan, himself against the big hitters, as Walsh, who lost a hard-fought battle well as the placement players." in three sets at Ball State onSaturday. 
cMa'Lch 12 Cfh.e.ofogy 341 D'cEh.ag 7:00-8:00
Western Michigan and Ohio State, as 
limited playing experience and

well as the addition of powerhouse Gibbons notched a 28-11 singles 
g:>'Log 'Lam o( §weE d-faff 7:00-8:00 
Southern California to this year's slate in the 1984 campaign, and also unfamiliarity will make this year's 
~it
...Ltbnaf ~tudi.u

schedule, Notre Dame's inexperi­played well in doubles, going 22-14 drive for a 20-win performance a ence could be exploited early on as to establish a career doubles record steeper hill to climb, but Fallon 
dtnthwpofogy 210 D'~h.ag 8:00-9:00 
remains optimistic. "It's gonna be

it was in last weekend's 8-1 loss to of 53-21. But then it's in with the new, as tough," says Fallon. "But hopefully
Ball State. 
four new faces fill the remaining our kids will get the experience they

"We have a good thing going with Ball State," comments Fallon. "They singles spots. At No. 3 is the first need. By the time we get back from 
our spring trip, we should have a

have a nice program over there, a transfer in Notre Dame tennis his­good idea ofjust where we stand."
good coach who's doing a good job. tory, senior Dave Obert. Obert We seem to do pretty good when played two seasons for St. Leo's Col­
they come over here, and then they lege in Florida but had to sit out the seem to handle us down there. It's a '84 Irish season in accordance with good rivalry." NCAA. transfer rules. 
Dan Walsh, a freshman from

Prior to last weekend's defeat, the Irish had disposed of Iowa, Mar­Bloomfield Hills, Mich., will be at the 
quette, St. Ambrose and Wisconsin-· No. 4 position. Walsh named
was MVP of the Birmingham Brother

Oshkosh to earn a 4-1 record thus Rice High School team which won
far. 
the Michigan state championship his

But this weekend's trip to the sunny paradise of Southern Califor­senior year. nia, which will lead the Irish through Sophomore Tom Grier is playing matches with California State, ,at No. 5 for the Irish after a one-year 
HEINEKEN NIGHT
Pierce, Loyola, and Whittier, is most stint on the reserve squad. "Tom 
90~ Light and Dark Heinekens Drawings for free Heineken prizes 
..IllONSIUDITIONSIUDITIONSIUOITIONSIUDITIONSIIDITIONSIIDIll 
Special guest DJ-Barney Grant 
HE DEPARTMENT OF COt11UNICATION & THEATRE AT NOTRE DAME AND THE 
DEPARTMENT OF Cot11UNICATION &THEATRE AT SAINT MARY'S ANNOUNCE JOINT AUDITIONS FOR THE FOURTH AND FINAL PRODUCTION OF THE SEASO 
Wednesday, March 13 
75~ BUD DRAFTS AND MIXED DRINKS WE WON'T PAY!! WE WON'T PAYU 
Thursday, March 14 
IY IIMIO FO 

ST. PAT'S PARTY 
HILARIOUS CONTE/1PORARY ITALIAN COI1EDY 

3for 1 Buds Green carnations to first 100 ladies! 
2 WOMEN, 4 MEN 
' 
TUESDAY, MARCH 12, LITTLE THEATRE, r-nREAU HALL (SAINT MARY'S) 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 13, LAB THEATRE, WASHINGTON HALL (NOTRE DAME) 
7:00P.M. 
OPEN TO "'-l NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS 

ITI~ITIONS-.ITIINSIRITIINSIIDITIONS-ITIINSIIIITI 
~~~~~~~BS~~~~~~~~ 



Tuesday, March 12 

-

~4(Jt.clltat~----------------------------------------T·u·e-sd_a_y_,_M_a.rc_h_l_2_,_1_9_8_5~--p-ag_e_l_l_
Doonesbury 
'W£'/l£ SAVIN6aJI?. 0141Jt/VE5.. 
IT'S TR1£ tVe MAl<& A EET­7tl?. PAY, JIJ5TYOI/ANP 
.....-~-"\!~ rr,..._, I 


Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side 



The Daily Cross"Word 
ACROSS 33 Leading 58 Expunges 8 Ring decisions 
1 Agreement 35 From soup to 62 Close by to 9 Trek 5 Accepted nuts poets 10 Candlenut tree 9 Noted 1920 38 To be in 64 Proficient 
11 40 A origi· defendant Bordeaux 66 Indian nally14 Celebes beast 67 Granny for one 12 Gave a hint15 La Scala 68 Where Perry 13 Church calendar stopper 40 Broadway hit won 18 Fit for farm·16 Western author 41 Brighton break 69 Choristers ingLouis L'-42 Home-run king 

· 43 Labor 70 Conifers 22 Stand up to 71 Beatty film 25 Gambler's game 27 Sectors 
17 Pithily 44 Feeling DOWN 28 "-may look 19 Celebrated 46 Torrent 1 Tempo on a king" 20 Well-versed 48 Incites a dog 2 Strong as-29 Taboos 21 "Star Wars" 49 Communicator's 3 Free pass 30 All-powerful 
role afterthought for short 32 Pours 23 Oath-taker's 
34 Scout unit 

words 50 Praying figure 36 Hemingway 24 Track position in art 4 Candle heroine 26 Ice pinnacle 52 Porgy 5 Feeling 37 -lazuli 
28 Year: Sp. 54 Beret 6 Scrap of food 39 Danube feeder 31 Bad mark 56 Mormon State 7 Slick-talking 42 Convince 
Garry Trudeau 
''wtAR£ 
QUINCY,TH&.. " WCXJIJ)ft/T "YaJANPI"
ljlf; 
8C MORE 6RAMMATICAL? 


Kevin Walsh 

H.-1 ...J.o.. J,a.. ..• er. 0h ... :iw c ."1ol\· -z::T2r:..cr 1'1E .Y..'T! f T w-\5 
Q"J:.. ~· ..; ou_ry! 
Gary Larson 

44 Piece of change 57 Give an edge 45 Takes on 59 Saharan 47 Zodiac sign 60 Arthurian lady 51 Not tasteful 61 Holy women: 53 Father: Lat. abbr. 54 Sunkenfence 63 Commotion 55 Blue dye 65 Barn pile 
Monday's Solution 

Campus 
•9 
a.m.· 2 p.m.· Social Concerns Infonnation Session, The Claretian Volunteers, Memorial IJ. brary Concourse, Sponsored by Career & Place· ment Services and the Center for Social Concerns, Free. 

•9:45 
a.m. -2 p.m. · MBA case Competition, CCE Auditorium, Sponsored by ND MBA Program, Free. 

•12: 
I 0 · 12:55 p.m. · Art Noontalk, Rev. James Flanigan, C.S.C., O'Shaughnessy Gallery East. 

•12:10 
· 12:55 p.m.· Art Noontalk, Diana Mat· thias, 18th & 19th Century Gallery. 

•4: 
l 0 p.m. · Career Talk, "Careers for Anthropol· ogy and Philosophy Majors," Paul Reynolds, Assistant Director, Career & Placement Services, 103 O'Shaughnessy Hall, Sponsored by Career & Placement Services, Free. 

•4:30 
p.m.· BiologySeminar, "Experimental Car· cinogensis by Dietary Nitrite and Nitrate," Dr. Tomoaki Asano, NO, Room 278 Galvin. 

•7, 
9 & 11 p.m. -Film, "American Werewolf in London," Engineering Auditorium. 

•7 
p.m. ·Judicial Council Meeting, Room 222 Hayes Healy. 

•7 
p.m.-SOLA General Meeting, Center for So­cial Concerns. 

•7:30 
p.m. ·Faculty Seminar, "War and Peace· The Nuclear Dilemma and Terrorist Blackmail," Rev. Edward Malloy, C.S.C., CCE Auditorium. 

•7:30 
& 9:40p.m.· Tuesday Night Film Series, "The Man Who Knew Too Much," Annenberg Auditorium. 

•7:30 
p.m. · Presentation and Lecture, "The Canticles of Alfonso X, the Learned," Prof. John Keller, U. of Kentucky, Carroll Hall. 

•7:30 
p.m. ·Movie, "Never Cry Wolf," Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by CILA, Free, All Are Welcome. 

•7:30 
p.m. · Club ofLife Meeting, Ilttle Theater, LaFortune. 

•8 
p.m. · LectUre, "The Image of Women in the Old Testament," Prof. Frederick Greenspahn, U. of Denver, Library Auditorium. 


TV Tonight 
8:00p.m.  16  TheA-Team  
22  Alice  
28  Three's A Crowd  
34  Nova  
8:30p.m.  22  The Jeffersons  
28  Who's the Boss?  
9:00p.m.  16  Riptide  
22  Movie · Seduced  
28  MacGruder & Loud  


©1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 


IRISH GARDENS • IRISH GARDENS
lh> Custom-designed 

~ Imprinted Sportswear FORALLYOUR FLORAL NEEDS
T -shirts * Pullovers * Sweatshirts Polos * Sweaters * More 

SE corner of LaFortune Basement MON-SAT 12:30-5:30 (Below the Deli) or ­OPEN MWF 2:30-4:30 TT 3:30-5:30 DIAL 283-4242 
(Formerly the N.D. T-Shirt Shop) 239-5157 Order early for corsages and wrapped flowers 

,' 
Tuesday, March 12, 1985 -page 12
SRorts 
Irish swimmers duplicate 8th place finish at Midwest championships 
By DAVE WILSON and Brian Casey swam well in their turned in a commendable perfor­Sports Writer final performances for the Irish. Boh­mance, as he placed fourth in the dan anchored a 1Oth-place finish for three-meter diving competition History does indeed repeat itself. the Irish ROO-yard freestyle relay with 390.70 points, and sixth in the The Notre Dame men's swimming team, and contributed to an eighth· one-meter dive with 375.85 points. team captured eighth-place in the place finish in the 400-yard free The fourth senior to make the squad, Midwest Independent Men's Swim­relay. Bohdan's most outstanding Paul Benz, placed 1Oth in the 100­ming and Diving Championships performance came in the 1,650-yard yard backstroke, and 12th in the 

over the weekend for a second year freestyle swim, however, where his 200-yard backstroke. \. ; in a row. Meanwhile, Western Ken­time of 16:47.26 was good enough "I was looking for some solid indi­tucky University also matched its for fifth place, and a new Notre vidual performances, and I think that performance of last year with an Dame varsity record. was our strength," said Stark. "We easy first-place finish. Casey, meanwhile, swam to a fifth­were already eighth after just one "I'm content with the way we place finish in the 200-yard butterfly day ofcompetition, and that pointed swam," said head coach Dennis with a time of 1 :56.54, and reamed out the power ofour opponents." Stark. "You have to remember that with Bohdan in the earlier 400-yard To round out the notable swim­

we only took nine ofour swimmers, medley relay. ming, freshman John Koselka just and that's a small number for a com· "The team will really miss Casey missed a varsity record in the 50­petition like this. and Bohdan next year," commented yard freestyle, as he placed sixth 
"I selected the guys for the travell­Stark. "In fact, we will lose six senior with a time of 21. 59. Blaise Harding ing team based on their swimmers this year, all of whom turned in a 14th-place finish in the performances in the Midwest Con­have contributed to a good season. I 400-yard individual relay in 4:18.25, 
ference Championships. We only hope Ican count on some swimmers and john Coffey took 15th in the wanted to take our best swimmers." among next year's freshman class." 200-yard backstroke in 2:02.95, just Senior co-captains Tim Bohdan Senior diver Mike Kennedy also seconds behind teammate Benz. 
Notre Dame's recruiting coordinator 
Gillen seeks top basketball talent 

I 
~ 
Editor's Note: Today The Observer and he did it again this year with play in, and you have to have a begins a series profiling the assis­Mark Stevenson. respectable recruiting budget. ~·· tant coaches of the Notre Dame "The second thing he does very "I really have no preference on 
men's basketball team. Fifth-year well is that he's fundamentally where I'd like to be a head coach. I'd .~ assistant Pete Gillen kicks off the sound as a practice coach. He knows be happy in Kansas somewhere in a\\ series, wbich will continue tomor­the basic fundamentals of offensive wheat field ifI knew they had a com­

row wtth a look at Gary Brokaw. and defensive execution. He's really mitment to basketball. You see, in~ a good teacher that way." some jobs you're 10 yards behind ByJEFF BLUMB With Gillen being so well-versed the starting line before you go be­The ObKrvcr/Pbil Deeter·~ in his coaching ability, Phelps knows cause the gym looks like a bomb hit
AssistantSports Editor 
that it is only a matter oftime before it, they can't get kids in, and they 

Notre Dame guard Trena Keys was named the North Star Confer­
\ 
have no money to recruit.
\; Notre Dame basketball fans ence's player ofthe year. Unfortunatt·ly, her outstanding play tbis "You have to be superman to win 
i 
~-sometimes tend to forget that such season was not enough to catipult the 20-8 Irish to this years Na­at a place like that," Gillen con­
players as David Rivers, Jim Dolan, tional Women's Invitational Tournament. See related story below. tinues, "and I'm no superman. I'm
and Tim Kempton didn't just decide just an average guy that works hard. 

J to come Notre Dame. They had to be 
-~ ( 
That's it. Ideally, I'd like to leave the

,, recruited, and the one doing most of -: ,' program on an up-beat, after we've 
NWIT passes over 
Y. that recruiting was fifth-year Irish as­gotten into the NCAA tournament
sistant coach Pete Gillen. \\ ·''··' Gillen, who coordinates Notre with a nice future ahead." 
., '\ 
y, Dame's recruiting, travels all over Gillen has had a lot of stops in his 
Irish for invitation
' ;1(I the country in search ofthe nation's 15-year coaching career. After six top talent. But even so, the energetic years as a high school coach, one as a 
~· 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team received some good
\,' 
Gillen faces a number of barriers in freshman coach and the other five as 

.\ news and some bad news yesterday. On the good side, junior guard 
~. that. He must immediately write off a head coach, he moved to the col­
Pete Gillen Trena Keys was named North Star Conference player of the year for 
\ i about 80 percent of the top 100 lege level in 1975 when he accepted 
her role in leading the Irish to the NSC championship. On the bad
I players, knowing simply that they Gillen will move on to become a an assistant job at Hawaii. After 
~. :.;_ 
side, though, Mary DiStanislao's squad discovered that the National 
·I: have little shot ofgetting into Notre head coach at another school. Hawaii's coach was fired at the end Women's Invitational Tournament had decided not to extend them'' Dame. Beyond that, Gillen also must "I think Peter will be a good head of the season, Gillen moved to Vir­
) an invitation to join the eight-team field.
i ' coach at the right school," Phelps ginia Military Institute for the next
~~ battle the intense recruiting effons 
It was the second time in three years that the NWIT, which is held
'{ of an ever-increasing number of says. "He's earned the chance. If he two years, where the Keydets . 
each year in Amarillo, Tex., had passed over the Irish. Two years ago,
\ other schools. goes, he goes. It's all part ofbeing an compiled a 47-11 mark in his time the NWIT ignored a 20-7 Notre Dame and this year the selectionStill, the hard-working assistant assistant -you want to be a head there. 
< committee decided that a 20-8 record was not good enough to war­
seems to like what he is doing. coach. It was then on to Villanova, where

'.,. rant an appearance by the Irish. The committee, which had claimed
"Recruiting is tough," Gillen says, "When he will leave depends a lot the Wildcats were rebuilding. By the to try to select a team from each part of the country, decided that

t "but I work at it and I enjoy it be­on how well we do and on what jobs end of Gillen's second year at the 
...: West Virginia would be the "Midwest" entrant.
'I, cause I enjoy relating to people. It's open up. That's always been the case Philadelphia school, Villanova was On a happier note, though, was Keys' selection as player of the 
! 
.; like a rollercoaster; sometimes you with our assistants here. When 23-8 and back in the NCAA tourna­
year. The 6-0 native ofMarion, Ind., was among the leadingscorers in get steak, sometimes you get donuts. you're successful at both ends ofthe ment. It was then that Phelps came the conference with her 17.2 points-per-game average. She alsoIt's really a hard racket because it's floor and in post-season play, I think calling at Gillen's door. 
'I pulled down 5.6 rebounds per game, shot 52 percent from the field 
as ifyou're on a tight rope and trying that's when assistants move on." Gillen relishes the time he has 

~ f and 70 percent from the foul line, led the team with 43 blocks, re­
to balance." "I just want a job where you have spent at Notre Dame, as he has

~ '· 
i corded 3 7 steals, and contributed 6 7 assists. 
"I think that recruiting is one of a chance to succeed," says Gillen, a learned a lot of things about being a

~ 
< Keys also became the fourth Irish player to score 1,000 points in 
~ ~ the two things that Peter does very native of. Brooklyn, N.Y. "I think head coach from Phelps. 
'. her career when she went over that mark in Saturday's game at 
~ well," compliments Notre Dame that's the bigword -chance. By that I "There's a lot to being a head
': Xavier. A school-record streak of 12 straight games in double figures 
~ / '.1 head coach Digger Phelps. "I think mean, you have to have a cumuut· coach other than the x's and o's," he allowed her to set a school-scoring record for a junior with 483 
~ I 
each year he's done a lot out East for ment, suppon, be able to get kids points.

~ us in terms of getting some players, into school, have a decent facility to see GILLEN page 8
-~ 
~ ~ \ 
\.. ··­
'( \.' 
~ ( ' ~ P .E. defeats Farley for inter hall basketball title 
t 
,-'l 
t -1. By MICHAEL FLANNERY ship and the two teams put on quite Reggie Richter's free throw left it ley's lead to five. Richter followed left on a three point play by Sports Writer a show. P.E. was the eventual victor, trailing by ten ( 24-14) entering the suit and cut the lead to three. Borkowski. P.E. then tried to hold t -gaining a hard-fought, last second, fourth quarter. Borkowski answeroti with a jumper, the ball, but Borkowski picked 
Every season boils down to one 33-31 victory. "When you're down by nine but P.E. had gained too much mo­Kathy Marnocha's pocket with 40 game: the final, the championship, For three quarters, this game points in the fourth quarter of a mentum. Baskets by Susan Hayes, seconds remaining. Farley also tried the coup de grace. A special tension belonged to Farley. It led 9-6 at the game like this, you really don't ex­Colleen Donnelly, and Richter to go for the last shot, but Leslie accompanies this event; expecta· end of the first quarter and 18-11 at pect to win," said P.E. coach Javier sandwiched around a Julie Pietras Heineman stole the ball with 12 tions run high among spectators and the half. When Kaca England com­Oliva. "We had to do something des­free throw tied the score at 27. seconds left. P.E. called time out. combatants alike. Every mistake is pleted a three-point play midway perate-you don't give up either." P.E. had stormed back into the On the ensuing inbounds play, magnified. Every player suddenly through the third quarter, Farley had Indeed, it didn't. P.E. opened the game, but it weren't through yet. Heineman became the unlikely becomes a potential hero or its biggest lead, 23-11. fourth quarter in a full-court, man­Fessler buried a jumper, then Rich­heroine of the game. Farley left 
heroine. Strangely, Farley built its lead to-man defense. The pressure was ter fed Donnelly for a lay-up to give Heineman completely unguarded 
'r The women's interhall basketball without any points from its standout very effective, as Farley turned the P.E. a four point lead. under the basket; Fessler found her season ended on Sunday night with guard Mary Borkowski. P.E., mean· ball over on its first four possessions. From this point, the game ior an easy lay-up. These were just such a game. Pao;querilla East while, struggled for every point and P.E. did not waste this opportunity. spiralled into a whirlwind finish. Far­Heineman's only two points of the met Farley to decide the champion-seemed ready to roll over and die. A Susie Fessler jump shot cut Far-ley regained a tie with one minute game . 
... 
j.,_ 



