

~---------­
NCAA pairings -page 9 

VOL XIX, NO. 111 the .independent ~llldent new~paper ~en ing notn dame and ~aint mary·~ MONDAY, MARCH 11, 1985 
Student government finances handled 'like a business' 
Signals indicate probable death of Chernenko 
Associated Press organizations there said vice Presi­
dent George Bush had received un­
MOSCOW -Moscow radio sta­confirmed reports that Chernenko tions played somber music early had died. Bush is in Geneva to ad­this morning, national television dress a conference today on the changed programming and lights African drought. burned before dawn at the Com­Soviet Politburo member Vitaly munist Party Central Committee I. Vorotnikov cut short a visit to building as speculation spread that Yugoslavia and .flew home unex­President Konstantin U. pectedly last night, according to Chernenko had died. non-Soviet sources, who spoke on 
Two Politburo members the condition that they not be iden­reportedly cut short trips to San tified. Francisco and Yugoslavia and The sources said Vorotnikov had returned home. In Bonn, a been expected to fly home from spokesman at the West German Belgrade today, but instead left Foreign Office said a Soviet delega­directly from Titograd last night. tion led by Central Committee ·The Communist Party newspaper Secretary Mikhail Zimyanin that Pravda reported the return this had arrived in Hamburg only late morning. yesterday was leaving by special In San Francisco, the Soviet plane this morning. · delegation led by Vladmir Shcher­
Such sudden returns have herald­bitsky, a member of the ruling ed a death in the leadership in the Politburo, prepared to leave for past. New York and a special flight to 
Similarly, an unexpected switch Moscow today, U.S. officials said. to classical music preceded an­It was the highest-ranking Soviet nouncement of the death of Presi­group to visit the United States in dent Yuri V. Andropov in February more than a decade. 1984, and of President Leonid I. A U.S. official in Washington, Brezhnev in November 1982. speaking on the condition that he 
But there was no official word not be named, said, "The speed about the health of Chernenko, 73, with which the group is returning who was sick and was put out of indicates that Chernenko is either sight before making two brief dead or is expected to die within a television appearances last month. matter of hours." 
At 5 a.m. (9 p.m. yesterday), This official, who had been Moscow was quiet as normal for briefed by telephone from San that hour, but five lights were burn­Francisco yesterday evening by ing in front offices at the generally American officials traveling with dark Central Committee head­the Soviet delegation, said the quarters, an indication of unusual Soviets "made it clear that these activity. was no problem with the trip -that 
Adding to the rumors that they were not returning because of Chernenko was gravely ill or dead anything that had happened in the was the announcement that a high­United States. ranking Soviet delegation would In Moscow, the national radio leave San Francisco two days network Mayak and Channel No. 1 ahead of schedule. of Moscow radio switched early 
The Washington Post, in an arti­this morning to programs of cle from Geneva, Switzerland, somber music. The English-reported that a spokesman for the 
U.S. mission to international see LEADER, page 3 

to catch up on some reading for his course in The City and 20th Century American Fiction. Today's high is expected to be 45 degrees. 

Survey to help design of programs 
By MARGIE KERSTEN ment, rape, sexual abuse, and solely to develop such programs. 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor homosexuality. Feeley also commented that The survey was formulated by although she would like to share Do you think Saint Mary's Saint Mary's Campus Ministry. the results with the students, "at the 
· students have a healthy and open Several people were involved in the same titne I want to keep their con­attitude toward sexual issues? development of the survey, which fidentiality. I'm not sure we can do Questions such as this were part of went through five drafts before be­both. My first priority is confiden­a sexuality survey-distributed last ing finalized. · tiality." week to every on-campus student People involved were Mary The results of the survey will not by Saint Mary's Campus Ministry. Feeley, director of campus be published broken down into 
The results of the survey will help ministry; Catherine Hale, assistant straight percentages although some define the educational needs of professor of psychology, and Mary general findings may be published Saint Mary's students and to assist Burke, a senior humanistic studies in the future. in designing educational programs major, served as a student But, through educational pro­to help students understand and ap­spokesperson. grams that develop, students will preciate their sexuality. "I think most women take know what needs were represented 
themselves seriously and they want the most. 
The survey was divided into eight to understand their sexuality," parts and topics included the Feeley said. Feeley feels very positive about understanding and functions of the "Sexuality is an extremely impor­the response of students to the male and female bodies; self image tant issue and it has been ignored survey. "I feel grateful to the and worth; issues of decision­far too long," said Feeley. Saint students willingness to participate making; relationships; pregnancy; Mary's currently has no programs and their candidness in responding and other sexual issues including in the area of sexuality and the 
see SURVEY, page 4 incest date rape, sexual harrass-results of the survey will be used 

Editor's Note: This is part one of
Where student fees go 
a series on the financial workings of student government and cer­
Student Activities 

45°/o tain student organizations. It ex­
Board

Clubs and 
21 °/o Student Government 
Observer Graphic Source: AI Novas. Treasurer 

amines the day-to-day financial operations and long-term finan­cial policy ofstudent government. Today's story gives an overview ofstudent government finances. 
By FRANK LIPO and BOB MUSSELMAN 
StaffReporters 
Controlling student govern­ment finances is "very much like running a little business," said Student Body Treasurer AI Novas. 
Although the goal of a student­run, student-financed "business" is not purely profit, Novas stress­ed his department's responsibility to be financially accountable. 
The $35 activities fee paid by students generates $246,000, which is used to finance various student projects. Clubs and organizations receive 20 percent of that figure, while the remain­ing amount is divided by the Stu­dent Senate Budget Committee. 
This committee consists of the student body president or vice president, student activities board 

manager, two senate members and the director of student ac­tivities, who is a non-voting member. The student body treasurer chairs the committee. 
The Budget Committee divides this 80 percent of the student fees collected among the Student Ac­tivities Board, Student Govern­ment, Hall Presidents' Council, Judicial Council, Off-Campus Council and a contingency fund. 
The SAB receives the largest amount, approximately, $111,000. This money funds 19 organizations and projects, in­cluding student businesses. Each project's budget represents the loss that it is "allowed" to lose, 
because  most  have  sources  of  
revenue  besides ­ incurred  ex­ 
penses.  

For example , last year Campus Entertainment's budget was $19,700. At the end of the year, the commission had incurred $14,580 in expenses and generated $2,879 in revenue. Although it suffered an operating deficit of $12,030, the budget allowed $19,700 to be lost. 
The $7,670 Campus Entertain-
see FUNDS, page 4 


~--­

.----------------------------._.­
The Observer Monday, March 11, 1985 -page 2 
In Brief Sexuality survey a positive step 
Sen. William Proxmire accused the Federal Aviation Administration yesterday of letting $48 million get away by ''turn­ing a blind eye" to the value of federal land around Florida air­ports. Proxmire said 9,300 acres at 23 airports in Florida "are sit­ting idle, home to mosquitos and sawgrass. This land would cause real estate brokers to do cartwheels. It has an estimated rental value of about $32 million a year... How much is the taxpayer receiving? a big fat zero." Proxmire said another airport leased 374 acres to a "famous speedway" for $1,100 an acre for 99 years, far below the going rate of $8,000 an acre. -AP 
The first shipment of famine aid raised from sales of the British pop record "Don't They Know It's Christmas" arrived in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia yesterday. The record featured some of Britain's biggest rock names playing as a group and raised about $8 million for Ethiopia's estimated 9 million famine victims. The first shipment, worth an estimated $75,000, included 20 tons of powdered milk, 10 tons of high-protein biscuits and 2.5 tons of medical supplies. The aid is to be donated to charities helping famine victims in Ethiopia, said Midge Ure of the Ultravox pop group, who accompanied the shipment. "There'll be a lot more on the way."-AP 
Two-thirds of those surveyed in a Newsweek poll supported a ban on magazines, movies and videocassettes that feature sexual violence, the magazine said. But a majority still favored the availability of sexually explicit material, according to the magazine's March 18 issue. According to the nationwide telephone poll of 1,202 adults, conducted on March 6 and 7 by the Gallup Organization, roughly three-quarters of those surveyed said sex­ually explicit material denigrates women and leads some people to sexual violence. Newsweek said the poll, which had a 4 percent margin of error, showed that a majority of Americans are offered to some degree by the sexual content of today's top television shows, advertising and movies. But Newsweek said the poll makes clear the acceptance of pornography in American life: clear ma­jorities favored the continued sale of X-rated movies and sexually explicit magazines, although some were willing to limit public display. -A P 
Sen. Jake Garn will take a paper airplane to play with on his long-delayed space shuttle flight, officials said. Garn, 52, will use the toy for a file demonstrating the fundamentals of science to schoolchildren, said Carolyn Sumners, director of astronomy and physics at Houston's Museum of Natural Science and coordinator of the project. The six other astronauts aboard Discovery will play with jacks, a yo-yo, marbles, a mechanical car and a pink plastic mouse named "Rat Stuff." Gam's trip into space has been postponed five times. The Utah Republican is on the crew as a con­gressional observer in his role as chairman of an appropriations subcommittee that oversees NASA spending. -AP 
The 33-year-old auto mechanic who was kept alive for II hours with an unapproved mechanical heart will be buried in Tuc­son after a service attended by his family and friends, University of Arizona officials said Saturday. The polyurethane heart, designed by Dr. Kevin Cheng, a dental surgeon, kept Thomas Creighton alive for II hours Wednesday after a first human heart transplant failed and a second donor heart could not be found. The mechanical heart was replaced early Thursday when a human heart became available. Shortly after Creighton died, Dr. Jack Copeland, head of the heart transplant team, attributed the death to an accumulation of tluid in Creighton's lungs, which placed in­creased pressure on the transplanted human heart. Copeland said use of the Phoenix Heart did not contribute to Creighton's death. ­
AP 
Weather 
March showers today and a 10 percent chance of rain. High in the middle 40s. Cloudy and cool tonight. Low in the lowers 30s. Most­ly cloudy and cool tomorrow. High in the lower to middle 40s. -AP 

The Observer 

The Obec:nrer (USPS '>99 2·4000) is publlshrd Monilily tl}rough Friday and on homr football Saturdays, rxcept during rxam and vacation prriods. The Obec:ryer is published by thr students of the llnlvrrsiry of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collell". Subscriptions may he purchased for J30 prr year ( S20 prr se· mestcr) hy writing The Obec:nrer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46";";6. 
The Obec:M"Cr is a member of The· Associated l'rc!IS. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Design Editor .......... Troy Illig Design Assistant .... Andi Schnuck Typesetters .. Cathy Anne Reynolds 
and company News Editor ......... Mark Potter Copy Editor ......... John Heasly Sports Copy Editor ... Larry Burke Viewpoint Copy Editor John Heasly viewpoint Layout .... Kevin Becker Features Copy Editor .. Sam Moore Features Layout .... Ellyn Mastako Typists Sarah, Bob, Mark, and Chris ND Day Editor ....... Miriam Hill Ad Design ...... Suzanne LaCroix 
and Kevin Murphy Photographer ...... Lev Chapelsky 
Human sexuality seems to be a taboo topic on the 
Saint Mary's campus. There isn't a lot of talk about 
sexual issues, and people seem to be either embarrass­
ed or unknowledgeable about many of the issues con­
cerned. 
But conversations concerning sexual issues were 
stirred up last week when Saint Mary's Campus 
Ministry distributed a sexuality survey to every stu­
dent living on campus. 
· The survey is extremely thorough, covering almost 
every sexual topic. Because so many subjects are 
covered, those taking the survey may question the 
necessity of some questions. 
The diversity of questions, however, can be easily 
justified. 
Survey results will be used to tailor programs to fit 
the specific needs of Saint Mary's students. a less 
thorough survey might not offer a true picture of stu­
dent attitudes. 
The survey is a one-shot opportunity. Had it refus­
ed to present all possible topics, many important sub­
jects might never have surfaced. 
The survey is divided into eight parts. the first sec­
tion involves questions about the male and female 
bodies and their reproductive organs, while the second 
part deals with self-image and self-worth. 
Decision making capabilities are questioned in the 
third section, and the fourth deals with attitudes and 
relationships. 
The fifth section asks questions concerning pregnancy, such as who is responsible for birth con­trol, and what to do in case of pregnancy. 
The sixth part is mainly concerned with a person's opinion of homosexuality and sexual harrassment. 
The seventh section asks three straightforward questions: what a person's sexual preference is, whether or not a person is sexually active, and whether or not the person is using birth control. 
The eighth and final section asks if a person would be willing to attend educational programs should such programs be instituted. Space is available at the end of the questionaire for comments or suggestions. 
Although the survey addresses many personal issues, it is vitally important that those completing the survey take it seriously. Once the results are compiled, educational programs can be instituted and students should take advantage of these programs. 
The Saint Mary's community is very protected. Because education involves growing and maturing in many ways, it it important that students become more knowledgeable on their own sexuality. Sexual issues are not inherently immoral, and students should not be afraid to confront these issues. 
Campus Ministry has made an atterr.pt to bring sex­ual questions into the open. This is a positive step because it is time for Saint Mary's to recognize that sexuality is part of life. 
For too long, students have been led to believe that information on sexuality should not be mentioned. 

Margie Kersten 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Someone who openly discussed sexual issues might have been considered immoral or looked upon negatively. Saint Mary's is an educational institution and as such should not limit its education by excluding information on sexual issues. 
At most state universities, sexual information is readily available. There are programs available for a number of sexual topics, including rape, sexual har­rassment, birth control, pregnancy and homosexuali­ty. There is no reason why Saint Mary's should be di f­

ferent from other colleges and universities. The results of the sexuality survey will allow Saint Mary's to identify what information students seek. Campus Ministry has exemplified, through the survey, a sincere concern for the issue of sexuality. 
Campus Ministry and all those who worked to develop the survey are to be commended. It is hoped that new educational programs will be developed, and that through these programs students will become less intimidated and more open, honest and knowledgeable about their own sexuality. 



PREPARATION FOR: 
GMAT•LSAT•GRE 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 
272-4135 
~~ 
TEST PAEMAA.TION SPECIAliSTS SH:';f I9J8 
54553 ,.,..I&,u 23 ~ s~:~;~~.
(ocrou from Morfin's) 
\~ &blowdry 
2.7'2·0312 Hair must be Shampooed day of cut. 277-1619 We are only minutes from campus 

MEET YOUR MAJOR 
Tuesday, March 12 
7:00-8:00p.m. 
Room 341 O'Shaughnessy 

Come and diseuss the new revised programs featuring fle*illilit~ and ehoiee of speeialization: 
The Major in Theolog~ 
or 
Theolog~ as a Seeond Major 

The Observer Monday, March 11, 1985-page 3 
Graduate students compete in yearly M·.B.A. competition 
Penn State, Vanderbilt, and the The presentations will be taped Ballinger commented that the universities of Illinois and to facilitate the judging. competition gives the students Missouri, as well as a three-member For the first time, microcom­"practical experience which to de­team from Notre Dame are all com­puters will be furnished and rooms fend it," he said. peting in the 24-hour contest. i::1 the Center for Continuing Ballinger commented that the 
Notre Dame won the 1982 and Education and the library will be competition gives the students 1983 competitions. available. "practical experience which is in­
Second year M.B.A. students, The teams also will be given a valuable." Carlos Fernandez, John Lawless, student Iiason to answer any ques­Professor Richard Hodgetts, an and Thomas Varga, will represent tions the visiting teams may have authority in business policy from Notre Dame. about the Notre Dame campus. Florida International University at 
They were chosen on the basis of Notre Dame's faculty advisor, Miami, will be this year's head an intra-college competition on Dr. Paul Conway, associate pro­judge. Feb. 22. fessor of finance and business Last year's winner was the team 
Each university is permitted a economics, said the team has "a lot from Ohio State. three-member team and a faculty of enthusiasm" and ''the in-house An awards dinner for the com­advisor at the competition. competition was very lively." petition will be at the University 
Each team will receive a case The purpose of the competition, Club on Tuesday, March 12. having to do with general business said Conway, is to "zero in on a management policies. problem, analyze it, and make pro­
It will be "The challenge of the posals for its solution." team to look at the case and make If no problem exists for the com­
Leader 

suggestions highlighting the com­pany, the team will offer advice on 
continuedfrom page I

pany's market positions, chief of­expanding its' markets, raising ficers and financial status," accor­funds, or stating corporate policy. language service of Radio ding to Larry Ballinger, director of The cases used for competition Moscow's world service also began the Notre Dame M.B.A. program. are drawn from actual companies playing classical music at 10:30 last 
with problems or questions. night. 
Each team will have 24 hours to The suggestions offered by the Normally, the domestic radio prepare a 25-minute presentation teams are "often what has already station plays a mixture of classical, and can bring a maximum of 10 happened," said Dr. Conway. jazz and Russian folk songs along books on accounting, finance, The teams must present "a good with talk programs. marketing, management, and plan of action and be able to defend At 9 p.m. last night, the two 
By MAURA MANDYCK 
StaffReporter 
Teams made up of graduate students from five universities were presented with a business dilemma this morning at 8:30 and were re­quired to present a solution by 9:45 tomorrow morning. 
Thus is the fourth annual Notre Dame M.B.A. Invitational Case Competition. 
The invitational, sponsored by the Notre Dame College of Business Administration and par­tially funded by the Johnson and Johnson Companies of New Brunswick, N.J., will take place to­day and will conclude with a judges' decision tomorrow evening. 
Representatives from Ohio and 


"'o~'oo~e' 

"e1e'co SPRING BREAK IS NEAR!I This year tan, don't burn; prepare 
your skin at 
JM.S. Plaza
'MN-HAWA1&N 
4609 Grope Rood sun tonn1ng solon Mishawaka. IN277-7026 
e 
Can't go to Florida? Get a tan anyway in our booth, beds, or both 
business policy. it," he said. 
,... The Arts & Letters Student Advisory Counefl """'111111 
presents: 
Meet Yaur Majar Manday. March t1 
Modern& Classical Languages 2100'5hag 4:30-5:30 
Math 1070'5hag 5:00-6:00 History 2100'5hag 6:00-7:00 Economics 1040'5hag 7:00-8:00 
Everyane is welcame ta attend! 
****************************** 
Soviet domestic radion stations on the air were both playing classical music, mostly string music with minor keys, instead of their usual mixture. 
One broke in on the hour for a regularly scheduled news broadcast and the other did the same at 9:50 
p.m. Neither made unusual an­nouncement. 
U.S. National Security Adviser Robert McFarlane briefed Presi­dent Reagan on the Soviet delega­tion's request for U.S. assistance in arranging a quick flight home, said deputy White House press secretary Bob Sims. 
"They have requested that they be able to leave early," Vivienne Ascher, a State Department spokesman in Washington, said of the delegation that arrived in the United States March 3. 

: JAM PRODUCTIONS presents 
~ FoREinGNER 
~ 
: TUESDAY,APRIL23RD-7:30PM 
~ All Front Stage Seats $14.50-Reserved ~ (6 Ticket Limit) 
: There "'ill be aND I SMC STUDENTS ONLY Ticket Sale 
~ Tuesday, March 12th at the A.C.C. Gate 10 Box Office 
~ 
~ NO students may arrive at Gate 10 before 6:00 AM 
: Those present by 7:00AM will enter a lottery 
~ to establish order ofposition in line for ticket purcha ~ 
~ Sale will start at 8:00AM 
~ 
.~ 
~ This sale is/or NO/ SMC Students ONLY ~ and will ONLY take place Tuesday, March 12 ~ You MUST present a VALID ID 
~ To be included in this one day only advance ticketsale ~ ~ before spring break 
~ 
: AFfER MARCH 12 TICKETS WILL NOT BE 
~ AVAILABLEUNTILMONDAY,MARCH18 
RUDITIONSRUDITIINSRUO ITIINSRUOITIONSRUIITIINSIUDITIONSIUDITIONS
: ~HE DEPARTMENT OF CCH1UNICATION & THEATRE AT I'{)TRE DAME AND THE DEPARTMENT OF CCH1UNICATION & THEATRE AT SAINT MARY"S ANNOUNCE JOINT AUDITIONS FOR THE FOURTH AND FINAL PRODUCTION OF THE SEASON
~ 
* 
*: * 

IY DAIIO PI 

: 
HILARIOUS CONTE!fPORARY ITALIAN COifEOY
* 
2 WOMEN, 4 MEN

* 
* ~ 
TUESDAY, MARCH 12, LITTLE THEATRE, f'K)REAU HALL (SAINT MARY'S) 
* 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 13, LAB THEATRE, WASHINGTON HALL (I'{)TRE DAME)
* 
7:00P.M.

* OPEN TO ALL I'{)TRE DAME/SAINT MARY"S STUDENTS 
* ~ 
~ 
* ~ 

* ~


* 


* 
* 
RUDITION-IITIONSIUIITIINSIIIITIDNSIUDITIDNS-ITIINSIUIITIOM 
~***************************** 
l 
., 
J 

The Observer Monday, March II, I 985 -page 4 
Suicide bomber drives into Israeli convey, 9 people killed 
semester, thus "we basically closed 
them down," said Novas. 
"It's a business, you take risks, 
you hope that the student body ap­
preciate these concerts (or other 
events) that we've brought in, and 
they didn't do as well as we 
thought," Novas said. 
This does not mean an event-free 
second semester, according to 
Novas. There are other commis­
sions which fund social events. 
"There is overlap. If you took 
Special Events, Campus Entertain­
ment, and Musical Entertainment, 
(all SAB commissions), you're go­
ing to have an approximately 
$60,000 budget. One person should 
never control that much money," 
said Novas. 
"You allocate your money, you hope to God they (specific commis­sioners) hit their numbers," Novas said, but in some cases, "You pad the numbers." The ultimate effect is ''we have our bottom line covered." 
This does not mean the budget figures are arbitrarily assigned. At the end of each spring semester, SAB officials meet with the student body treasurer and student body vice president and break down the large sum assigned to them by the 
The _Observer-
Theindependentstudentnewspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following positions: 
Assistant News Editors News Copy Editors Assistant Viewpoint Editor Viewpoint Copy Editors 
Questions should be directed to Keith Harrison or Joe Murphy. Resumes and personal statements are due Thursday, March 14. 

Student Senate Budget Committee. This sub-budget is approved in the fall by the Budget Committee. 
"We have a good idea of what will happen year to year," Novas said, "With the supply (money) we have, we allocate it to the best of our ability to give students what they want." 
"We want to make sure it's (stu­dent activities fee) being spent pro­perly, it's not being abused, imd that it's providing events. 
"Granted that we can't have beer busts every weekend, 'cause if we could we would." 
Student Government, which received this year approximately $50,000 operates similarly to SAB, but funds different operations. 
Help the 
dp 
March of Dimes Fight Birth Defects 
A BEER PARTY 
may attract yaur atl•ntian but hi•tary will•timulate yaur mind 
Come to the HISTORY "Meet Your Major" Program March 11,6:00-7:00 p.m. in 210 O'Shaughnessy for some suggestions 

• 
"In my job at the First National Bank of Chicago, I am COII5tantly u•ing tile knowledge acquired

LAWYER'S 
through my paralegal training at Roosevelt." -Ann BriU Eltaw. Willa and Truab Graduate

ASSISTANT: 
AGROWTH CAREERJOltTHE_SO'$_ 
Training as a Lawyer's Assistant can give today's college graduate a valuable edge in the job market. 
Entry-kvel positions in the Chicago area pay as much as 112.000 to SIS.OOO-and some paralegals are now earning as much as S.U.OOO. 
It takes just three months of daytime study (six months in the evening) to prepare for a career as a Lawyer's Assistant. The program at Roosevelt University is the largest A.B.A.· approved program in Illinois. and its record of graduate employment assistance is the best there is. 
FOR INFORMATION AND A FREE BROCHURE CALL (3126 341-3882 OR 
MAIL THIS COUPON T DAY! 
ROOSEVELT UNIVERSITY Lawyer's Assistant Program 430 S. Michigan Ave. Chicago. Ill. 6060S 
-~ 
In c.:oop~ra1aon v.onh 
•
lbr N21mnal C~niC'f for P;uaJC'p TralnJilfiC 
Please send me a copy of the Roosevelt l.a-..yer's Assistant Program catalog I am interested in the 0 Chicago or 0 Arlington Heights location 
Name: 
Addrc-S!I 
C.II) 
~tate: lop 
Homt'Phonc 
Du!rlmc:~.., Phone 
Approved !or VA and ttl. !>tar~ <iuarantccd Loan> 19 ~ .::~:~:,;,:".,::,~;::~;,:;:-,::~':";'.,':;'~~ ... 

Associated Press 
A lone suicide attacker drove his bomb-laden car into an Israeli army truck in south Lebanon yesterday, killing nine Israeli soldiers, military sources said in Tel Aviv. 
At least I I soldiers were wounded in the attack just across the border from the Israeli town of Metulla, according to hospital offi­cials. Most were severely burned. 
In Beirut, the capital of Lebanon, an anonymous caller told the leftist radio station Voice of Arab Lebanon 
Funds 
continued/rom page 1 
ment did not spend was applied to 
other  projects  which  ran  over  
budget.  
Some  commissions,  such  as  

movies and services (refrigerator rental), turn a profit in the long run. Others, such as Musical enter­tainment, are terminated mid-year because of overspending for unforseen circumstances. 
"This is the first time we've tried to bring in new wave groups, (Joe "King" Carrasco, The Bangles, The Suburbs)," Novas said, but because of a lack of student interest, each concert lost more money than planned. Muscial Entertainment spent its year's budget in the first 
Survey 
continued from page 1 
to the survey_ The results will be taken seriously," she said_ 
Hale was mainly involved with the content and format of the ques­tions. She has done work with surveys before and gave a statistical view of dealing with the con­struction of the survey. Burke, who is an R.A. in Holy Cross Hall, said that she got involv­ed with the survey through meetings with R.A.s and student government. Burke was involved with the content of the questions and the cover letter that accom­panied the survey_ 
"Issues of sexuality are not often addressed here at Saint Mary's, and Saint Mary's being an institution of education for whole being, needed to address the issue because sexuali­ty is a part of each person," she said. 
So many areas were covered because sexuality is a broad topic, according to Burke. 
"If we would have left out some of these areas it would have been negligent on our part," she said. 
She stressed the confidentiality of the survey and noted that no percentages will be published. Burke said, "We will use these numbers to know what educational programs to start." 
Feeley said the Board of Regents and Student Affairs Committee met and examined the are of educa­tion for sexuality. Parents, faculty, students, and staff discussed the need for a program and a sexuality survey seemed to be the best way to determine what the student needs were. 
The ultimate goal of the survey is to determine what the needs of the students are, design a program in coreelation with the students' needs, and share the information with students before the 1985 school year_ 
Notre Dame students will be in­vited to be involved in the pro­grams. 
Professional Typing TINA'S SECRETARIAL SERVICE -Multiple Letters Resumes -Dissertations Term Papers -Same Day Service Available 
232-8749 

that the car bomb was driven by a member of the Lebanese National Resistance in revenge for a car bomb that killed 7S people and injured 2SO on Friday near a West Beirut mosque. The caller said there would be a longer statement later. 
Israel has denied accusations in l.ebanon that it was reponsible for that bombing. 
Manager Aina Belsky of Metulla's Arazim Hotel, about 300 yards from yesterday's blast site, reported in a telephone interview, "The explo­sion was terrifying. There was a giant lire and then black smoke shot up." 
It was the worst attack on Israel's occupation force since Nov. 4, 19H3, when 2H Israeli servicemen and 3S Lebanese and Palestinians were killed by another suicide bomber. In that attack, a bomb-laden truck was driven into a compound where Is­raelis detained and questioned prisoners. 
Prime Minister Shimon Peres was quoted as telling a Jerusalem meetingofwomen from B'nai B'rith: "We had a very bad day today. Nine of our soldiers were killed." His remarks were relayed by a partici­pant who spoke on condition she was not identilled. 
The military sources, who also in­sisted on anonymity, had initially said as many as I 0 died in the attack. At the same site, two Israeli soldiers were killed in land mine explosions on Feb. 10. 
The Lebanese state-run radio quoted police and other sources as saying that a Mt:rcedes car with a lone occupant drove into the Israeli convoy on the Tal el-Enhass road in 
the Marjayoun Valley about I00 
yards from the border gate. 
It said tht· car hit a truck full of Is­
raeli soldiers, and the explosion set 
!Ire to a number of Israeli vehicles. 
Machine-gun lire could he heard as surviving Israelis reacted to the at­tack. Helicopters quickly removed the casualties, area residents told state radio. 
The Israelis then sealed off the area. 
Before yesterday's attack, the Is­raeli death toll in Lebanon since the June 19H2 invasion stood at 620. 


*Free T-Shirts *Free Mugs 6 to 8 p.m. Everynight 
50¢ draft every midmght YOU JUST CAN'T BEAT IT IN LAUDERDALE" 
NORTH MIAMI BEACH 
THE MARDI GRAS 2355 Sunny Isles Blvd. SHIFTS INTO HIGH GEAR WHEN LAUDERDALE CLOSES!! $1.50 drinks 3 p.m. till6 a.m. 
GRAFFITI LOUNGE 
3150 E. Commercial Blvd. *Free Dnnks 


---.~.

--~------~------------~--------------------------------------~---------------.-----­


Photo by Colleen Cain 
After their flight, a "lift" ofIrish Rangers rush out ofan UH-1 Iriquois helicopter. 
Johannes Hacker 
features staffwriter 

On March 2, while most students were busily sleeping in, catching up on a week's lost sleep, the Notre Dame Army ROTC Irish Ranger Company, the crack volunteer ROTC outfit, was flying about the Michiana region in U.S. Army helicopters on an exciting field training exercise. 
The UH-1 Iriquois helicopters were part ofan air assault field training exercise which involved the Irish Ranger Company and the 38th Aviation Battalion, Indiana Army National Gvard. The helicopter battalion is a reserve unit based in Shelbyville, Indiana. 
• 

The exercise was conducted in two phases; the first, the helicopter ride, familiarized cadets with flying in them; in the second, the Rangers conducted small-unit wargames in Juday Creek. 
The Irish Rangers reported in at 7:30a.m. at the ROTC building, and their cadet officers briefed them on entering and exiting the helicopters. Also, the Army ROTC detachment issued equipment, including field packs, radios, and M 16 rifles with blank ammunition, to the cadets. 
The company then was organized into lifts, or 
groups which were to ride in the same helicopter. 
Each lift had a leader who was responsible for provid­
ing the pilot with a list of names and social security 
numbers of the cadets flying in his lift. 
At I 0 a.m.. the cadets marched to Green Field. 
Before the cadets boarded the helicopters, the pilots 
gave a safety briefing and an orientation to National 
Guard Aviation. After this was done, the first ofthe 
three helicopters took off, and nine lifts, totalling over 
50 Rangers and about 25 other cadets, took off, flew 
around the Mishawaka area, and landed in Green Field. 
After the helicopter ride, the Rangers went toJuday 
Creek, a wooded area northeast ofcampus, to conduct 
field training exercises and wargames. The wargame 
ended at 2:30p.m., and the Rangers marched back to 
the ROTC building. 

This wargame was in preparation for the Army 
ROTC Roger's Rangers competition at Camp Custer, 
Mich., where the Irish Rangers will compete against 
units from Indiana, Illinois and Michigan. The competi­
tion consists of three events; small-unit patrolling, 
testing on such military skills as first aid and communi­
cations, and a five-mile squad run with full field pack. 
The Irish Ranger Company is a volunteer subunit of the Army ROTC cadet battalion which concentrates on field training and readiness. Also, the unit attempts to instill confidence and motivation in its members. The commander ofthe Irish Rangers, cadet captain Eric Fredrickson, says of the purpose ofthe Rangers, "What I'm doing is trying to prepare my people to become future officers in the United States Army." 
The company is run in the spirit of the active Army Rangers, a highly trained, highly-mobile unit ofthe U. 
S. Army. Army Rangers participated in the invasion of Grenada, and are in turn modeled after Roger's Rangers, a unit which fought in the French and Indian War. Many members ofthe Irish Ranger Company have had either Airborne or Air Assault training. 

,.t:. 

The Observer I Johannes Hacker 
Mo 
March 11, 1985­
5 

Yuppies-you can't stand 'em, you can't shoot 'em 
Marc Ramirez 
Strange days indeed 

They're everywhere. 
Unless you excommunicate yourselffrom the rest ofthe civilized world, there aren't many places you can go without running into a few here and there. If I didn't know any better I'd say they were a plague sent from the heavens to punish me for my wrongdoings, but since I haven't done any wrong in the last eight years or so, that's out ofthe question. 
The country is crawling with them -look out your window and you'll probably see a couple buzzing about, seemingly innocent but silently deadly. You may have to deal with some at close range today, and ifyou're allergic to them like I think I am, you could be in for trouble. 
You might even be one. 
That's right, we're talking yuppies -young upwardly-mobile professionals, spreading across the country at geometric rates, following all the trends and making me downright nauseous as they do it. 
I can see you're worried about being one already, and that's a good sign, because ifone characteristic typifies a bona fide yuppie, it's that he's damn proud to be one, thank you very much. 
There are those who would like to be yuppies. There are those who think they're yuppies. And then there are those who are yuppies. Let's examine the latter, shall we? YUPPIE HANGOUTS: 
Personally, my first instinct when I see more than maybe three 
yuppies at a time is to run screaming for the nearest door with an 
"Exit" sign over it. I once had a class in Hayes-Healy, and ifyou 
know Hayes-Healy you know that as many as 40 or 50 yuppies have 
been sighted coming out at one time. Walking through the building 
between classes can be quite a harrowing experience, so beware of 
the imminent dizziness which is bound to flood your senses as you 
struggle toward the door under the scrutiny ofa hundred yuppie 
eyes, clawing through a heavy fog of Polo and Chane! No. 5. 
Other yuppie hangouts on campus: Stepan Chemistry Hall,the 
Law School, the Memorial Library basement, The Snite Museum of 
Art, Courtney Tennis Center, Walsh. 
FIVE 1HINGS TO SAY THATWILL UPSET A YUPPIE: 
I. "Gosh, isn't that Brut you're wearing?" 
2. 
"Who's this DowJones guy? I heard he took a drastic fall." 

3. 
"Tennis has gotta be the most boring sport in the world." 


4. "The word out of Hollywood is that 'Dynasty' is being cancelled." 
~·"I'm so glad Lionel Richie is finally dead." A TYPICAL DAY FOR A POST-COLLEGE YUPPIE: 
7.00 
a.m. sharp -Wakes up bright and early. Mumbles something corny about hating Mondays, thanking God that it's Friday, or something similar. Drags self to shower with matching shampoo and conditioner. Emerges with ambitious look in eyes. Splashes on Pierre Cardin cologne or Giorgio perfume. Dresses in designer clothes or conservative blue suit, making sure all labels are visible. 

8.00 
a.m. -All prepped up and ready to go, gets into 1985 Honda Accord or Chevrolet Celebrity. Stops for quick breakfast anywhere croissants are served. Waits until other yuppies are done with financial section ofcounter copy of morning paper. With heart beating rapidly, checks closing DowJones average. 

8:50a.m. -Arrives at work at downtown office building. Sits in car for few minutes singing along with final verses of"Like A Virgin," then ejects Ma,donna tape from professionally installed Pioneer cassette deck. Goes to work. 

9.00 
a.m. -Walks cheerfully into office, says good morning to receptionist, asks for cup ofdecaffeinated coffee. Performs duties of job, subconsciously calculating the increase in personal worth with each passing action. 


1.00 
p.m. -Takes hour off for lunch. Checks options: meet other yuppies for lunch at fine dining establishment; go it alone to small deli-type place where single yuppies meet; procure brown-bagged lunch from office refrigerator -may include yogurt, exotic fruit, Diet Coke, potato salad and/or Chefs salad. If alone, spends time reading "lacocca," Business Week or anything by Sidney Shel­don/Harold Robbins/Stephen King. 

2.00 
p.m. -Returns to work. Spends rest ofafternoon contemplat­ing benetlts ofbeing company president, plots quickest and safest route there. Also considers plans for evening-which hot spots to hit, etc. 


5.00 p.m. -Departs office with proverbial sigh ofrelief. Wipes off dirty spot on "Reagan/Bush '84" bumper sticker on car. Climbs inside, flicks Wham! tape onto cassette deck. Drives home. 
8.00 p.m. -Ifno plans made to meet yuppie friends at nightclub, or to go it alone at classy yuppie singles club, then decision is made to stay home and watch."Falcon Crest." 1HE 1HREE MOST COMMON YUPPIE ANSWERS TO "WHAT 1HREE1HINGSWOULDYOULIKE TO HAVE IF YOU WERE SHIPWRECKED ON A DESERT ISLAND?": 
I. Acompany ladder to climb 
2. 
ATV to watch The MacNeil-Lehrer Report on 

3. 
Asubscription to The Wall Street journal 


HOW TO CLEAR OUT A ROOM FULL OF YUPPIES:. Shout, "Hey, whose Audi is that on fire out in the parking lot?" 
... 
..., 
1 ..., 
1 
1 1 ,1 
1 
l 1 1 
~ 
~i~~~_()__i_It__t_________________M_o_nd-ay-,M-arc-·h-ll-,I-98_5_p~ag--e6 
Cynicism stifles the atmosphere at Notre Dame 
A fhcnd once told me that she was at odds with her life at Notre Dame. "It's the cynicism at this place," she declared, "you can't get away from it." She complained that students at Notre Dame gave up on things rather quickly, things like the social life, the admin· istration, and student government. People get com· 
Vernon Marchal 
afterwords 
partmcntalized here, she felt, without much thought or reflection. "SMC chicks" are seen as flighty, Notre Dame women are seen as con· ceited and aloof, and Notre Dame men are seen as juvenile and insensitive. It seemed to her that students too often sorted out and clas· sifted others according to negative stereotypes · as if these stereotypes could ac· count h>r a whole person. She said that she felt alone and estranged from this place, because, to her, it seemed obsessed with the baseness of things. 
I did not know what to say to her. She had been at Notre Dame longer than I. and I knew that she would probably not be impressed with the naive advice ofa freshman. Finally, I said that I sympathized with her, although in· truth my view ofNotre Dame was quite differ­ent from her's. She undoubtedly detected this, because my sympathy had little effect. I re· member wondering what made her so bitter. I felt frustrated because nothing I said seem to make any difference. 
My friend has since graduated, but in my time here I have had similar conversations with others. Their unhappiness has made me wonder. 
At a place like Notre Dame, filled with intel· ligent people, cynicism is a fashionable and seductively undemanding habit of mind; it is infinitely more respectable than hopefulness. John Kenneth Galbraith, no small intellect himself, understood this when he remarked that "the man who forsees peace, prosperity, and a decline in juvenile delinquency is a negligent and vacuous fellow. 'I1te man who foresees catastrophe has a gift ofinsight which insures that he will become a radio commen· tator. an editor of TIME or have gotten to Congress." Smart tolks like to be right about bad things. Many ofthem find that by focusing on the bad, they can appear right with great regularity and with little or no effort. Few things can promise so much for so little. 
But the appearance ofrightness is not right· ness. Not all Saint Mary's women are'airheads. Not all Notre Dame women are arrogant. Not all Notre Dame men are jerks. If these are the only kind of people one is looking for, surely one will find them. But in this search, one will inevitably come across many worthwhile and caring people as well. 
Almost without exception, the cynic at Notre Dame (or anywhere) is a person who has been sold a bill ofgoods. He makes no at· tempt to see the good or correct the bad, for he has been convinced that all such attempts reflect a naivete that is not consistent with his vaunted intelligence. For him, everything is a foregone conclusion. Such a person often becomes complacent and self-righteous. His contact with others is usually characterized 
by a doleful account of the tragedies of the day. 
Of course, the problem with cynicism is that it sets the stage tor its own prophesies. For example, chances are that the social life at Notre Dame will be bad if the student body gives up on itself. Few should be surprised that improvement rarely occurs when any sig· nificant number of people shun the prospect ofimprovement. 
How we deal with cynicism is not a mar­ginal concern. It is a concern that affects the quality of our lives at their deepest levels. Cynicism severely impairs the ability of the imagination to see possibilities and create op· tions. It hangs over inventiveness and initia­tive like a pall. It is a habit of mind that, like all habits, is learned early and dies hard. 
In the end, cynicism prevents one from being happy and at peace with himself and others. Also, it is the ultimate indicator of a weak mind, for a person with a real idea rarely has the time to turn cynical. 
Vernon Marcbal is a senior in tbe Program ofLiberalStudies atNotreDame and is a reg­ular Viewpoint columnist. 

As the dust of death settles, life goes on 
In the midst of the fall semester I took time out from my typical editorial parade ofsocial analysis and political salvos to write a philosophical inquiry into the nature of love and lite. It was an enigmatic journey which probed and examined the fact that we take the 
Randy Fahs 
more Friday analysis 
dear and special things of those around us for granted as we trudge through our daily lives. 
The impetus for my sentimental meander· ings was my discovery that my mother had cancer. I knew then that some time in the future I would be writing the follow-up to an earlier article. 
But alas, life is not a fairy tale and we cannot always havt: happy t:ndings. We know not why
r 
some of us will live on into a ript: old age and 
~ 
why some have to leave us far to soon. So 
r 
please bear with me: as I make a few observa­tions and draw a few more conclusions about the nature oflove and life. 
Each person's lifetime is short and seemingly insignificant when viewed in terms of the continuum of human existence. If you are religious or you believe in the hereafter, then death is a beautiful and wonderous thing because it takes one from the pain, ignorance, and mundane trivialities ofdaily life. 
While the theory may provide comfort and consolation, in reality, the practice is crush· ingly painful, especially when it occurs to a dear and special person like a parent. 
Our parents snare a most special relation· ship because it is through them that we come into being. For fortunate souls. our parents are there every step of the way lO offer encour· agement and criticism, to change our diapers and bandage our skinned knees, and to smile proudly when we take our t1rst steps across the tloor and later out the door into the world. 
It is hard to imagine a mother or tather as being vulnerable when they always seem to be there for you. But parents are human beings and the time comes when they are no longer with us. The reality of their death is dealt with in due time, but the loneliness that comes with missing their presence in our lives tends to linger. 
Even when I went to school very far away, I knew that Mom was only a phone call away if! had a problem, or something special hap· pened that day, or even if I just wanted to call and find out if the Sabers won. 
Fifry years and 72 days is so brief a period, but once our candle oflife is ignited, we know not when its flame will t1nally flicker out. While I'd give anything in the world to have my mother back, I take solace in the fact that I gained so much from her while she was in my life. I shared a special relationship with her and I can honestly say that she died knowing how much I loved her and how important she was to me. 
There is no practical reason tor my digres­sions on these pages: the relationsip between a parent and a child is a very special thing. For those ofyou who still have living parents, pull them close to you and let them know that you love them. There is no such thing as a "generation gap;" that's a term used to explain a loss ofcommunication. 
Ifyou harbor a grudge with your parents or you feel that they don't understand you, just imagine how you would feel if they were sud· denly gone !(>rever. How...many things would be left undone or unsaid? 
It is a sobering thought to say the least. I do not know how many people actually read what is written on these pages, but for those who have made it this far, and who understand and have been touched by what I have been trying to say, I must ask a simple tavor of you. Make a special effort to pull your parents close to you. If you are fortunate enough to have your parents live to a ripe old age, then you will have had that many more warm and tender years together. 
Lastly, I wish that all of you may be spared from the emotional pain oflosing a parent, but if it should occur, then you can detlnitely find comfort in the notion that you made the most of the time that you spent with them. For me anyway, this notion has made picking up the pieces and going on with life much easier. 
Randy Fabs is a 1984 Notre Dame graduateanda{onner Viewpoint columnist. 

Conservatives are turning history on its head 
It is a thing ofwonder to watch the reversals  
ofground hy the administration and its Demo­ 
cratic adn-rsaries.  President Reagan calling  
the anti-Sandinista contras the "moral equiva­ 
lent of our founding fathers" was a glowing  
example of the change.  
...  In the past it was the American left liberals who detended revolutionaries in Latin  
r  America and the conservative loyalists who  
r  
r r  Max Lerner  
'  
r r  The Max Lerner Column  
r  
r  
~  were outraged. Now it is the conservatives  
!  who side with the revolutionary contras and the left liberals who are outraged at the "immorality" of overthrowing a sovereign es­tablished government.  
r r  'I1te ground ofdiscussion has suffered a shift like that of the geological plates underlying  
continents. At first the Reagan people tried  
the tactic of "covert" CIA aid, in a curious  
blend of careless cloaks and daggers.  The  
liberals were shocked at the covertnessness,  
as if it had not been used by a succession of  
presidents.  
Now Reagan wants a blocked $14 million to  
become open miliitary aid to the contras. He  
says, in effect, "To hell with the fig-leaf' and  
asks "What's wrong with backing the right  
kind ofrevolutions by the right kind ofpeople  
against the right enemies of the U.S.?"  
It's a question hard for revolution-oriented  
liberals to  answer.  'I1te Democratic leaders  
have been holding a series ofinquests into the  
party's disintegrating political position. They  
now  t1nd  the  president  (and  his  

spcechwriters) seizing the high moral ground 
of the American ti.llmding fathers and the 
French Resistance in behalf of the contras, 
while the liberals are reduced to a defense ofa 
status quo they had never beti.Jre revered. 
If you get under the skin of the administra­
tion's words you may t1nd a shrewd foreign 
policy tactic emerging. It is certainly not the 
"McCarthyism" which Rep. Ted Weiss (D· 
N.Y.) read into it in attacking Secretary of 
State George Shultz, nor the "Red baiting" ' 
which seems to have stirred Rep. Peter 
Kostmayer ( D-Pa. ). Both men are reading the 
events oftoday through the color prism ofthe 
post-World War II ethos. 

President Reagan and Secretary Shultz may inadvertently have been pushed by their militant Democratic opponents into a policy ofovertly aiding a revolution which continues to threaten a governmental overthrow, even when it doesn't achieve it. 
What counts is not the overthrow but the sword of retribution which hangs constantly over the heads of President Daniel Ortega and his ruling junta and makes them walk warily. Ortega's gesture of offering to send home some Cuban military and forgo some Soviet plane shipments is a slow ritual dance obvi­ously aimed at swaying congressional votes. Shultz does an equally slow ritual dance aimed at influencing the moderate Contradora na­tions of the region. 
The result is that the Communists through· out the region are on their best behavior lest another Grenada or a strengthening of the Sal· vadoran guerrillas tip the precarious "correlation offorces" against them. Thus the hacking of the contras may be achieving ex­actly the bolsteringoflegitimacy in the whole Latin American area which the past American efforts in detense of the status quo never achieved. 
So you have a conservative administration using the language and tactics of the left ("freedom lighters,'' "revolutionaries,'' "Resistance") tor conservative purposes. The same thing is happening in the Star Wars Ini­tiative where Reagan is using a high-technol­ogy weaponry for the hope of weapons abolition, and his adversaries are reduced to arguing li>r the overkill status quo of Muwal Assured Destruction (MAD). 
It is turning history as well as language on its head. It has its dangers, but dullness and hopelessness arc not among them. 
(C) 1985,LOSANGHE\' TIMES SYNDICATE 


r-~--~ -__..._.----------"-----~-~-~-----~~ 
"ie~P-~O~i~n~t~--------------------------------------------M_o_n_da_y_,_M_ar_c_h_l_l_,l_9_8_5___P_ag__e7, 
P.O.BoxQ 
homosexuality and physical intimacy. After listening to these, I find it difficult to fathom how a Catholic university can be in the busi­ness of supporting homosexuality and an openly licentious view ofsexuality. 
Most revealing was Tape 20 on female homosexuality. The tape, far beyond the value neutrality of the others to which I listened, clearly characterized religious disapproval of homosexuality as the result of "biases and fears," clearly stating that it was not morally wrong. Instead, the tape advocated a freedom for sexual self-determination and applies the dictum: If it feels good, do it. Needless to say, something is awry here. 
The very nature of being Catholic is to take our Christian heritage seriously. This means employing truths which have been super­naturally revealed for the benefit of all. Ifwe seek truly to counsel, then we must not hesitate in affirming our convictions. 
I can understand, perhaps, a stand where a psychologist simply tries to clarify a person's values without suggesting her own. Fine. But a Catholic university cannot retain its integrity by denying the very values which make it dis­tinctive. These tapes clearly do this. 
The administration, therefore, has the re­sponsibility not only to discard these poisonous tapes, but to replace them with others which will truly attend to the needs of people seeking happiness and fulfillment. This will be done, not with secular platitudes but with the Christian truths which liberate.. Re­member: it is our personal salvation which hangs on the balance. 
Frederick Everett Fisher Hall 
Space available 
Viewpoint has the space, if you have the time. Please submit your letters to the editor to The Observer which is located on the third floor of LaFortune or send them to P.O.Box Q. 
Guest columns should not exceed 500 words and letters to the editor should not exceed 250 words. The works must be typed. · 
Letters not signed will not be printed. The Observer reserves the right to edit all material. Please include your telephone number along with your addres~ . 

Nicaraguan betrayal abetted by the clergy 
Dear Editor: 
As fate would have it, I had just read an arti­cle on doings in Nicaragua in the October 1984 issue of "The New Republic" and had just seen a television news report on the state of Nicaragua's army, when I chanced upon Prof. William Storey's letter to the editor of Feb. 27. He writes of John Paul II as having "systematically and relentlessly undermined the popular and highly Christian revolution" in Nicaragua. 
Granted in comparison to, say, the Bol­shevik Revolution, or the uprising of the Red Army. Nicaragua's revolution made a greater appeal to Christian themes and ideals. It cer­tainly involved many more chaps in clerical collars in intluencial positions. And indeed, the prospect of ousting a despot like Somoza won great support for the Sandinists. But however "popular and highly Christian" the revolution might have promised to be, mat­ters are much different now. 
American conservatives would say the rev­olutionaries have shown their true colors.· Liberals would lament the loss of the bright promise. No matter. One now finds de facto government by thugs -many Somozan bosses have miraculously become born-again Sandi­nista elites -and a populace where a not­uncommon cry is heard for the comparatively bounteous times under Somoza. 
The government denounces farmers for capitalist excess when they sell their produce in the market. The revolutionary elite eats the best imported food and lives well, donning the obligatory fatigues for public viewing, while the masses scramble for sanctions, despite the fact that the economy was in a shambles well before the U.S.-backed contras undertook economic sabotage in 1982. 
So the scoundrels persist in the pretense of 
popular support while they stage trumped-up 
elections and snatch teenage boys from city 
buses to serve in the army. All the while pro­
gressive priests smile beneficently from their 
cabinet posts. One need not be a toady of the 
U.S. State Department, or even a conservative, to smell a rat here. 
It was, by the way, not some puppet of the Curia but Gustavo Gutierriez who applauded the Pope's words to and about the poor during the recent trip to South America. Say what you will about john Paul, he can hardly be charged with moral inconsistence in opposing the regimes in both Po_land and Nicaragua. The two share a basic failing: the betrayal of the aspirations of a largely Christian people. The double-dealing in Nicaragua is all the more scandalous in being abetted by the boys in black. • 
Thomas Smith Notre Damegraduate student 
Father Sorin wanted to have ROTC on campus 
DearEditor: 
Whether they are sitting in the classroom, doing situps in the grass, running in formation, or marching across campus with weapons in their hands, the ROTC cadets at the University ofNotre Dame are preparing to take an oath to support and defend the Constitution of the United States-the same Constitution that gave Nolasco the right to express his opinion in his letter to the editor March 6. 
Unfortunately, Nolasco chose to describe the ROTC training as "humiliating" and "insulting." Does he too find the preservation of his first amendment rights "humiliating" and "insulting"? 
Nolasco is bothered by the fact that the Army ROTC "folk" not only vocalize "obnoxious Army chants" and paint their faces, but they crossed campus with weapons in their hands enroute to their training site. He suggest that such a practice at a Catholic uni­versity should make Father Sorin turn over in his grave and make present University officials take prompt action to cease this disgrace. 
Just a a point of information, Father Sorin favored the formation of a military company and in the Spring of I859, he requisitioned and received Army weapons to supply the cadets with arms. In 1880, Father Corby for­warded a petition to the War Department re­questing that an officer be detailed to instruct the cadets -he too requisitioned weapons. Present University officials recognize the im­portance ofwell-trained Christian leaders. 
Nolasco should not be humiliated by the presence of ROTC programs on a Catholic campus, but should be relieved that the mili­tary will have such qualified, responsible Christian leaders. 
Nolasco's solution to get the cadets out of his sight -possibly to the "bottom of St. joe's Lake" -is neither very Christian nor very con­stitutional. Those cadets in ROTC have the right to be there and to pain their faces just as Nolasco has the right not to be in ROTC and the right to choose a university without ROTC. 
Carrie Mitsch Notre Dame student 
Prof. Rice offers to 
explain his position 
DearEditor: 
Brian McKeon's column on March 5 criticized my participation in the defense of the four youths accused of bombing abortion chambers in Pensacola, Florida. Because of the pre-trial order, I cannot discuss the case but I can make available without further com­ment materials which are already in the public domain. Had McKeon contacted me and ex· pressed the concerns which he voiced in his article, I could have provided such material to him. He could have avoided the numerous misrepresentations in his article. 
I will be pleased to provide for any inter­ested member of the University community a copy of the brief submitted by the defense team of which Professor Frank E. Booker, Mary Frances Hasson and I are members. In­cidentally, apart from the locally retained counsel, no member of that team is receiving any fee other than a nominal fee ofone dollar. I will also be pleased to provide a copy of an article, "The Bomber As Victim," which I had published in january in The Wanderer, a Cath­olic newspaper. 
If members of the University community 
are interested in informing themselves on this 
issue, I hope they will avail themselves of this 
opportunity. If they are not so interested, I 
hope they will at least have the grace to refrain 
from inflicting their uninformed opinions 
upon others. 
Charles E. Rice Professor ofLaw 
'Counseline' promotes non-Catholic attitudes 
DearEditor: 
The forum upon which I am about to 
engage has in the past been abused by ir­
responsible hyperbole. I wish not to contrib­
ute to this tradition with any caustic or 
inflammatory statements. Instead, I wish to 
make a point which concerns the administra­
tion of this University and its commitment to 
its Catholic nature. 
It has come to my attention that the psycho­
logical services of Notre Dame include a proj­
ect called Counseline. This service allows 
students wishing to know more about a cer­
tain subject to call and make a selection from a 
number oftapes. 
Included in their well-advertised list are 
such subjects as male and female 
Campus Comments: If you could do anything for Spring Break, what would you do? 
Photos by Lev Chapeisky 

Go to Miami with the men's golf Go home and see all my old friends Go to Hawaii, relax, and put on a few Go to Greece and get tan all over. Anything, honey, anything. team from high school. pounds. 
Katie Walsh Jamie O'Brien Mike Brosius Laurie Beale Kelly McCloskey Senior Freshman Junior Junior Sophomore Accounting & Sociology Business Electrical Engineering Communications &: Theater Arts and Letters 


Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Edttor-m-Chtef. ...... Bob Vonderheide Business Manager. .......... Dave Taiclet Managmg Edttor . .... Mark Worscheh Controller . . .Dave Stephenitch 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the News Edttor . Sarah Hami.lton Advertir:;ing Manager . ...... Anne Culligan University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Editor .. . Dan McCullough Circulation Manager Jell O'Neill reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as Saint Mary's Edt tor . . Anne Monastyrski Systems Manager . ....... Mark B. Johnson accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion Sports Editor. .. M1chael Sullivan Production Manager. . ...... Chris Bowler of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column Vtewpomt Editor . .. Dave Grote Project Manager . Amy Stephan present the views ot their authors. Column space is available to all members of the Features Edttor . ........ Mary Healy community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. Photo Edt tor. Pete Laches Founded November 3, 1966 is encouraged. 
---~---. 
~----------------------------------~ 
Monday, March 11, 1985 -page 8

Sports Briefs 
again. Sassano showed a lot of skill Rehder's midsection due to the just trying to protect himself. height differential, and Rehder only

Bouts 
Once again in the second Sassano unleashed his cannonball right once. 

continuedfrom page 12 
was taken to the ropes by Vignone, Taylor took Rehder to the ropes inBookstore Basketball still has a few openings left the finals of the I "''5-pound match. only this time Sassano didn't fair as the first and threw series after series for this year's tournament. Additional registration will be held today Gailus didn't throw any brutal well. The senior was almost knocked of p11•1clw~ rn Rt>hckr's stomach,and tomorrou• only on a first-come. first-served basis. Register from punches, but he came out in a fury. out ofthe ring. Vignone took him to which didn't do anything to Rehder ~ p.m. to '5 p.m. in the AnTostal office on the second floor of And after a flurry of combinations tht· ropes again, and after a se­at all. But they did S<.'Ore a lot of LaFortune. ·1be Obsen•£>r 

and a right that hit the right spot of ries of punches to the body the ref· points with the judges. Midway Packo's head, it was over. Packo was eree gave Sassano his first standing through the first Rehder got a lillie on the ground out cold. eight. upset with Taylor's body shots, and
NVA aerobics and st.retchercise classes will 
Dave Sassano didn't win the wound up ami let go a deadly rightbegin today. For more information, call the NVA oftlce at 2~9-61 00.­
heavyweight championship, but he When the bell sounded at the uppercut that hit Taylor's body. For·
The Ohsen•er 

proved to a lot of people that he is beginning of the third, Sassano tunatcly tor "Big Train," the punch one tough boxer. Sassano lasted figured he might as well get his licks didn't connect with his face. 
three rounds with grad student Jim in before the fight was over and he Anyone interested should attend a meeting on Wednesday at I0 p.m. 
A women's water polo club is now rorming. 
"the Unknown" Vignone; something came out swinging. The tight turned In the second, Rehder got fired up in the LaFortune lobby. For more information, call Marianne Bailey 
no one else could accomplish. This into a slugfest, and Vignone took Sas· and connected on a few shots to at 2H3-3H91.-The Obsen•er 
was Vignone's first experience in the sano back to a familar place-_ the Taylor's head. Taylor took Rehder to Bengals, but his skill obviously ropes. Several Vignone combina· the ropes in the third and landed showed some prior experience in tions prompted the referee to issue some combinations to Rehder's the ring. Vignone has competed in the second standing eight of the head, something he had not done
NVA spring sports entry deadlines are 
the New Jersey Golden Gloves. bout. before. Rehder came back and tookWednesday. Spring events include men's interhall baseball, men's Vignone took Sassano to the ropes The super heavyweight final, Taylor to the ropes and landed someinterhall softball, women's interhall softball, graduate men's softball, in the first and delivered several featuring Tom Rehder and Pernell combinations to the head thatwomen's interhall soccer, men's interhall soccer and men's interhall flurries of shots to his opponent's "Big Train" Taylor, wasn't the slug­prompted the referee to give Taylorfloor hockey. Team rosters must be registered at the NVA office for body and head. This didn't happen fest it was built up to be. Taylor a standing eight. Taylor ultimatelyall of these events. For more information, contact the NVA office at just once, Vignone did it again and spent the whole fight working on won by split decision.
239·61 00. ·The Obsen•er 

The MS softball tournament has been res­
Thursday's first-round NCAA games at the ACC 
cheduled to March 26-31. Teams of five men and five women may register in the LaFortune lobby on Wednesday from 7:30 p.m. to 9:30p.m. The registration fee is S 10, which goes to MS. The winning 
Kansas vs. Ohio U., 12:07 p.m. North Carolina vs. Mid Tenn. St., 7:07p.m. 
team will win dinner at Amigo's restaurant. For more information, call Steve at 2H3-1 045.-The Obsen'er 
Purdue vs. Auburn, 2:37p.m. Notre Dame vs. Oregon St., 9:37p.m. 
~--------------------------------------~ 
The Obsen•er Notre Dame office. located on th<· third floor of Lafortune Student Center. an·epts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m.. Monday through Friday. 7be Obserr•er Samt Mary's office. l<ll"attd on tht thtrd floor of Haggar College Center. accepts dassifieds from 12:.~0 p.m. until -~p.m .. Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day dassitkds is ; p.m. All dassitkds must he prepaid. either in person or hy mail. Charge is I 0 cents pa five charac­

Classifieds 
ters erda·. 

NOTICES 
EXPEATTYPIN027NIIi34AFTER5:30 
A trw llllPIIc:allon form that glv• you 
..,._ to men 1hAn 1100,000 c:holce 
SUMMER J088 18 you,. by ...cling a 
MM~P«~. ...~. return ..,. 
v-'ope to: Sludent Employmenllierv"* 
2011 WencWI A.,.,._,e, Plnallald. ..... 
01201 
Word Proc.aaing/Typing • -., copying. Call Ana"M 283-3880 • II a.m. to 11 :00 p.m. 
TYPING
.......... 
184-11111 
BUFFALO BUS leaving lor br-Meidl 15 at 3:00p.m. $45 Round trip. Anyone deetinad tor Cleveland walcome lor $35. Cel42011 tor Info 
.. paclllle goong on the )elf ""FlOCH"" trip to t1onda. muet be J*d In tul by 3/14. 1005 nan-. caah only. we wil leave at 4 on 3/15 from the bua atOll 
I LOST/FOUND I 
FOUND: L.adte 1 Wlllch during brMk1aat (Thur..say. 2/28) at North Dining H.. Call 1101 (Gaty. Jim. or Bublla) to Iden­tity. 
Loat: A gtrfs GOLD bracelet. somewhOfe on campus. Saturday. March 2. II waa a gift. and is of great sentimental value. It found. PLEASE return to Ahne-·238 LeWIS. X2179. Please have a conscience' REWARD OFFEREDII 
Found: a leather basketball at the Rock It you fit the IIIUaltOn please call Bill at x3133to deocnbe your rock and hD!lefully d11mit 
LOST: Pendant on a Oliver chain some­where between South Dtmng Hall. the Rock. and the I,CC Wednesday evening. February 13. Pendant has a rose patnled on a black background. with a Sliver beck· tng. It haa gteat sentimental value. AEWAAD:Doeo a pan ol browmea and my undytng grat1tude sound good? II found please call Karen x2145. 
loet: ltghr blue wool SUit jacket with blue leather patches on elbOWll. tell at the ACC aherthebrunchfO<JPW ca11Tomat1655 
LOST: GOLD CHAIN BAEACELET BE· TWEEN (OR IN) CAMPUS MINISTRY. THE GREAT ZAHM HALL & FARLEY. SENTIMENTAL VALUE. PLEASE RETURN IF FOUND FOR REWARD CALL LAURIE AT 4039. 

LOST: Blue skt jacket at SMC Saturday. Reward. Call Terry 1436 
lost:woman's su1t,greenish grey wool skirt and jacket with a beige blouse. lost on Friday.Mar 2. it found please call Kelly· 232·0659 
LOST: THREE LETTERS ADDRESSED TO INDIANA BELL, AND M.P.SMITH ON OR ABOUT 2/28. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 2n-3828. REWARD 
LOST: ONE TATIEAED PUMA GYM BAG ON 3/4. I NEED THE LETIEA IN THERE YOU CAN KEEP THE TAPES. MIKE 2n·3828 
FOUND: Tan purse •n Stepan parking lot March 1. Call2958 to daim 
HELP!! Did you ftnd my KEYS? I lost them on Sat. March 2 at the Zodiac Club party in St. Mary's Clubhouse. There are 6 keys on a ring with a gold ""M"" on it. It you found them. please call me-I really need them back. Thanks! Molly x4003 
..................... 

TO WHOEVER TOOK MY BOOKBAG FROM THE BOOKSTORE FRIDAY MOANING--WOULD YOU AT LEAST PUT MY NOTES AND GLASSES BACK SO I CAN READ AGAIN 
Lost: MY SKI CAP: it"s black with several white and grey stripes; could be anywhere. Please call Andy ]1176. THANKS' 
!!REWARD" A ten percent reward offered tor the return of a Timex men's wnstwatch lost on March 1 between Keenan and Cushing Aud. Return 11. make yourself feel good. and make a few bucks 1n the process. Call x3327 
.__I_F_O_R_RE_NT__, 
RENTING NOW FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR· FIVE & SIX BEDROOM HOMES. COMPLETELY FURNISHED WITH WASHER & DRYER. CALL 234·9364 AFTEA5. 
SUBLET LG 2BA APT APRIL. 1ST 232· 4355 
WANTED 

RIDE TO NEWARK NEEDED. CAN LEAVE ANY TIME AFTER THURSDAY MORNING, MARCH 14. WILL SHARE USUAL. CALL MIKE AT x1745. 
Summer Sales Pos1t1ons. Average earn­tngs $2.900. Sell yellow page advertising lor Umveratly of Notre Dame Campus Telephone Dtreclory. Car necessary. No summer school students. Qualified stu· dents should call University DtreciO<tes. 1-800-334-4436. IO< mO<e tnfO<mation and to set up an intervtew by March 11. Ask IO< Barbara Nteuktrk. 
Round Tnp transportahon to FLORIDA only $60... IO< further into call Dan(2560) or Tom(2551) 
Aide needed to Pittsburgh area for spnng break. Please call Jim at1930. 
RIDE NEEDED TO LONG ISLAND NY AREA FOR BREAK CALL KATHLEEN 1267 PLEASE• 
RIDERS needed to CINCINNATI IO< Spring Break. leaving 3/15. Call Dave at 2n·3953 evenings lor details. 
AIDE NEEDED to SARASOTA/FT.MEYEAS alter GMAT on saturday' Please ca11284·5049. 
WWANTED: AIDE TO NEW HAMPSHIRE OA BOSTON WILL SHARE EXPENSES. PLEASE CALL BROTHER BENEDICT AT 239·6187. I CAN LEAVE AT .ANY TIME 
ROOMMATE NEEDED: "84 grad seeks Domer roommate lor 2-bdrm apt tn Bir­mingham. MI. Call 272-8617 it relocating in DetrOit area. 
Aide needed to Arlington.Mass· badly.even Boston would be line!Can leave on 3/15 alter 12.Piease call Bill atx3133 
FOR Sale: One way ticket to N.Y.C on United. Cheap Price. Leaves 3/15 Call 2348 
Aide needed to O'Hare 3/15.1rom O'Hare 3/24. Call284-5450 • 
Need a ride to Rochester. NY IO< Spnng Break. Would like to leave alter NCAA gameon3/16. Terry 1888. 
Relatives traveling from El SalvadO< to see beloved president. So. I need many cOMMENCEMENT tickets. Call 3811 or you may find a guerilla at your door. 
WE ARE DESPERATE' Aide needed lor 1 0< 2 people TO or NEAR PADRES IS· LAND! CAL~ MICHELLE OR KAREN' 2674 
NEED AIDE TO MD. D.C. AREA FOR BREAK CALL ME. 1268 
NEED TWO (2) RIDES TO NEW JER· SEY FOR SPRING BREAK. CALL SARAH,1333. 
Need ride to Chicago's O'Hare leaving Wed. March 13 around4:30. Call Mary Zo at2619. 
Aide needed to COLUMBUS. OH lor spring break-Eric X2585 
AlDERS needed lor FT.LAUD. real cheap. CALL 232-8617/233·6589 
FOR SALE 
FOR SALE: 1960 PLYMOUTH CHAMP. GOOD GAS MILEAGE. GREAT FOR RUNNING AROUND TOWN. KNOWS ITS WAY TO THE BAAS BY HEART!! NEED TO SELL AS SOON AS POSSI­BLE. NEED TO FlY THE FAMILY OUT FOR GRADUATION!' ASKING FOR THE HIGHEST BIDDER. YOU WON'T REGRET IT. CALL JEFF AT 3859 OR STOP IN 128 ST. ED'S. 
3upersaver tix 58-Boston return 21/3­25/3 Call232·6085 
74 MEAC MONTEGQ.. Let"s make a deal.$550. 232·0697. 
PERSONALS 
SKI VAIL COLO SPRING BREAK Condo sleeps 41. Ful Kitch. FAPL. Jaccuzi. Pool. LV M58 303-685-2700 
THE SUN, THE SNOW, THE NIGHTLIFE, THE MOUNTAINS. SKI THE BEST THIS SPRING BREAK­ASPEN, COLORADO. $3117 INCLUDES TRANSPORTATION, 6 DAY LIFT PASS, 7 NIGHTS LODGING RIGHT ON THE SLOPES I CALL MIKE AT 283-3573 FOR INFORMATION OR TO SIGN-UP. 
THE COUNTDOWN CONTINUES 4MOAE!'! TEQUILA KAHLUA TEQUILA KAHLUA 
NEED EXTRA $. SELL YOUR CLASS BOOKS AT PANDORA'S BOOKS.937 SO.BEND AVE.M·F B/T12·4PM. WE ALSO OFFER A 3 DAY SERVICE FOR USED BOOKS. 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT "TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
MATI DONAHEA: TODAY IS THE DAY!!! I"m sure the suspense is killing you! Be in your room TODAY at4:30 as you will be receiving a very important phone call' 
FREE DRINK WITH YOUR SUB. CALL THE YELLOW SUB FOR DELIVERY AT 272-4453 MO· TH 8-11 pm FA-SA 8pm· tam 
ATIENTlON ALL OFF-CAMPUS STU· DENTS: MARCH NEWSLETIEA AVAILABLE IN LaFORTUNE AT THE OBUD DESK. PICK YOURS UP TODAY' 
ND THEOLOGY: MEET YOUR MAJOR Tu..day, March 12 7:00PM 341 O"Shag Come and dlacuaa the new revlaed ma)or programa featuring flexibility and choice of apeclallzatlon. 
LeMANS SOCK HOP 3-8-85 
GUITAR PLAYER LOOKING TO START A BAND OR JOIN AN EXISTING ONE. NEEDS ALL THE HELP HE CAN GET. CALL ANDY 3039 
TO ANYBODY INTERESTED IN FOAM· lNG A POLO CLUB THERE WILL BE A MEETING AT LAFORTUNE LITILE THEATRE WEDNESDAY 13 MARCH AT 6.00PM NO HORSEBACK AIDING EX· PEAIENCE NECESSARY 
SHIP OUT THE HOMELESS!II I need a ride to O'Hare on Friday, March 15! II you .are Chicago-bound on that day and have some space, Call Hank at2084 (Will Hare usual) 
NEED nde IO< two to UTICA. NY AREA IO< break!ll Help us out..$$$ Call >2825 Of x3230 
...... .., ... JIM TABOR CORE COURSE Player ollhe week MaraCuahwa 
Kathy and Faye. survey says: naal Just ktdding. 
Why do people buy Madonna's albums when they can gel Madonna herself IO< less? 
I Love You. Pally. 
NEED AlDERS TO LAUDERDALE LEAVING WED 5:00. 277·6740 
The Schwerha has lost all control' 
I'm gomg to marry Elaine Aob10son. 
Dearest Lt. Signal. SO<ry you couldn't give me that And I was so looking forward to it. Some other time? Senior bar Thursday night? And leave you know who behmd! love ya, Frankie 
STOP THIEF: To whoever stole my wallet from the Rock thursday: Keep the money . The credit cards have been cancelled. It IS useless to you now. It is important to me. (The cute handicapped kid in the photo 1s my little bro.) Put it in an envelope. pol my name on 1t (its in the wallet), wnte P'"dloso­phy Dept. on it. and drop it in campus matI. 
Need ride to Chicago's O'Hare leavmg Wed. March 13 at about 4:00 in the alter­noon. Call Mary Zo at2619. 
?I?GUIL TV?'? Are you feeling guilty be· cause you h1t the driver's door on the grey Pontiac 2000 parked in the S. end olthe stadium lot between 1 :00 and 3:00 pm on Wed.• March 6th??? Alleviate that gu11t by calling 2n-7586. Thank you lor your honesty. 
LYONITES LYONITES LYONITES VOTE CAHILL/O'BRIEN TODAYIII 
ANNOUNCING THE CANIDADACY OF MIKE"I CAN'T REMEMBER KAMIKAZE"CASSETIA FOR U.M.O.C. 
fl started out so easy thought we had il made lost 'em on the tri-state thank God you wore your shades We searched the road for hours pul out an APB never though I you'd make tf that Shmeg amazes me!! That night we lounged at Chuckles sipping our iced teas I can·r befteve lhal Gandht really propositioned me. Oh no, the brass one, we declared-It's like an arctic zone! I guess its much more cozy than sleeping on the phone. Wasted away the weekend with Ky and a// the boys Hung out in the bathroom bought some brand new toys Lots of fun and laughter­Can't ask for bolter friends. Wailing lor lhe lime when we can do it once agam! 
• TandC 
Howard Hall 
THE ALTERNATIVE TO THE OADI· 
NARY.. 
Drew Kohl & Carl Gebo IO< Co-P rest dents 
VOTE MARCH 12TH 
THE GREAT BOOKS-THE GREAT MINDS. MEET FACULTY AND STU­DENTS OF THE PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIES. TUESDAY. MARCH 
12. 7:00P.M.. GRACE PIT. 
JP JUST GOT SOUNDTRACK FROM ""KILLING FIELDS"" IN. FIGURED THAT THE $7.50 YOU OWE FROM FRI. (HALFIES. REMEMBER?) OUGHT TO BUY A CHEAP DINNER. CALL MY SEC· AETAAY. WE'LL HAVE LUNCH. ALEX­ANDER. WHO CONQUERED. 
JUSUIT VOLUNTEER CORPS Center IO< Social Concerns TUESDAY. MARCH 12 Caii239-5293IO< appotntmenl! 
The GREAT WALL ol EVANSVILLE IS 
dead 
S&M: WE SMELL GOOD 
VO>E VORE FOR VICE 
Dear Helen. Have fun down south! I'll m1ss you! Love, Mike 
TO THE GIRL FROM MARIST AND THE GUY FROM NORTHSIDE: YOU CAN'T BE FRIENDS IF YOU DON'T TALK TO EACH OTHERIII AN INNOCENT BYSTANDER 
WHO EVER SAW A ""GOOSE"" DOING A PIAOUETIE? 
GOOSE: A·HUH-HUH-HUH·HUH 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING IO< all those gotng on the SAB trips to Ft. lauderdale and Daytona Beach 1n the Little Theater ol the La Fortune on Wed· nesday. March 13. All those on bus A must be there at 7 pm. Atders on bus B must be there at 8 pm. Daytona people must be there at 9 pm. II you don't know what bus you are on. call239-7757 
ATIENTION OFF-CAMPUS CRIME HOCKEY FANS: SEMI-FINALS AND FINALS--MON. AND TUES NITES. BE THEAE 1 
TENSE? OVERWORKED? Let an ex· pert masseur or masseus relax you 1n the pnvacy of your own room. Get a20 m1nute massage lor only $5' Call 2363 to set up an appointment with Bndgel or Kev1n 
DOES UNITED LIMO GET YOU DOWN? THEN GO WITH THE SAB TO O'HARE' The Student Activities Board Will be spon­sonng a bus to the airpor1 on March 15 a~d returning on March 24. For more 1nfo, keep checking the personals or call SAB. 
AIDE NEEDED TO OHARE 3/15. CALL CLARA 284·5012. 


The Observer Monday, March 11, 1985-page 9 
'Fusr Round •second Round Reg,onals Nal1onal Champ1onsh1p March 14-15 March 16-17 
161 WEST 
Iowa 8 
1 1985NCAA 
91 
Wuhington 5 Kentucky 1 ~ I l__ 
Tournament

~NL~t s 1~ I _j 
" ego '· . 
Tu!M 6 
Royal and Barlow also led the side jumpers to bring Dayton from like to see plenty more beers and
* * 
Notre Dame rebounding charge, a 38-37 deficit to a47-41lead. cigars in the coming weeks. 
t 
clip and sa\•e-clip and save-clip and save-clip and save-clip and save-clip 111
f¥••·······················~···~·..················t
: GOING TO FT. LAUDERDALE OVER SPRING BREAK? 
! Counseline · t 
~ ~ 
: All students and alumni from Notre Dame and St. Mary's are invited ~ : to attend the Notre DameAlumni Club of Ft. Lauderdale picnic and party t f 239-7793 f ~ after the St. Patrick's Day Parade, Sunday, March 17, 1985. The city-~ 
~ Has Alcohol become a new best friend? ; 
: wide parade starts at noon and the party starts at 2:00PM and goes until ? . t ! 1i 
i5. Try tapes 160 & 161 · 
~ ~ ; ~ 
~ ~ c -·1M'-"0 
ftl !!I!.! • • Ill
~ ~ !2_ ! P<i-blp ..UdU. ;!
• r,.. of rau.." ­

: You are all invited to walk in the parade with the Alumni Clubs of : -6" • 1'117olaal rat-, ; : St. Mary's and Notre Dame and then join the party poolside, at : = ~ =-~~.,.--:.:::...~~l~l=-1 '""-" fi 
Q. • DoalU. wllb ..... n 1J1 t Ullderataadtaa JHlOUIIJ' ud llqw to D..l With It = 
~ the Riverside Hotel. ~ 
~ 10 .. ,0 ..,... , 
ftl 16 ..._,. 0poa to O&bon
~ ~ 
~ ~ !2. ~: =-~ ==-~l.,. 8. -6" ~ :::.:-:.u:!!~:la Wert to Cope Wlth It ;
t REFRESHMENTS AND FOOD -SPECIAL PRICES FOR STUDENTS : = lZ low to O.al wttb I.GDeli.ftllaa ~ ~ : ~::'!:~~=r..... n 
C J7 leluaUOIII b:n"Cb.. • 'C lt 31 Copiftc with Streaa I» J9 
t t 
: AFTER THE PARADE -JOIN THE PARTY t 
F-1• Sex lole--Chanpa and Stre..aa ~ 
40 Mala Sex lola--cbaD.pa aDd Str..... 
.. t.amlDa to Accept 'I ~~~Mit ll ThuapJ and Nov to Uaa It 70 l.D.fatuatlon or LonT 

~ AFTER THE BEACH -JOIN THE PARTY ~ rour..l f
t AFTER THE SUN GOES DOWN -JOIN THE PARTY ~ 
13 How to Cope vit.h a hokan lelatlonahlp 14 D..th and O,.ln1 .as IJDftrnandln1 Crlaf 

i 
90 flelpln& a Friend 160 Euly Stau of u alcohol Probl• 161 hapondbla DecblCKU about Drlnlr.ina 
t ~ 
Self A..arti.vene.. U2 b.ulplaa of Contract luildin& 4ll What h Depre..~on 

t SPONSORED BY THE NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY'S ALUMNI ~ 402 
~ CLUBS OF FT. LAUDERDALE 432 to Deal
lkMrll with p.pnaelon 433 hneaaion ·aa a Lifaatyla Ul ieeOIItAc lndepal't•rot fra. Parn.ta 479 Du.llna vith Ale~.o~o.dc ParaJtta 

~ (Additional information and directions etc, will be available at the Alumni ~ 
Ul Sulcldal Criala 492 lec:ot;nizln1 Suic14al Poteatlah ln Othen

~ Association Hospitality Van parked next to the Yankee Sheraton ~ 
693 Helpinc Sc.eone in a Suieldal Crlah 

~ Trader Hotel.) : 
~..................................................~ 4·12 M·Thurs 4·10 Friday 
CountyMarl{et  BUYERS MARKET PLACE 5901 N. Grape Road Mishawaka, IN  
TOTAL DISCOUNT FOODS  
OPEN 24 HOURS DAYS A WEE 


The ~Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following positions: 
Assistant Sports Editqr (2) Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Questions about these positions should be directed to Jeff Blumb at the Observer office. Personal statements and resumes are due Friday, March 15, at5p.m. 
..

* 
Sunshine Promotions presents 

with Spedal Guest WASP I Saturday, March 23, 8:00 pm Notre Dame A.C. C. 
KeservOI!d seats $12.50•••General Admission $11.50 
nclret. GW~UaiJie .,dae .4.CC Box 0/Jfce. Select Se•r•. Select RobcrUo•"•, Tloe Elltloart Trutlo. ~.R."•IIf_,., Sloop (LaPorte). Worfcf Reco..... (Go•loe•). llfu•lc Illogic (Bento" Harbor). N....t WIRcf•.~loa"""lra a"cf NUe•). St. ~oaeplo S..nlr(llfal• 0/Jke). """ Karwoa Recorcf• (Ft. Wa,..e). 
Tickets on sale today! 





The Observer Monday, March 11, 1985 -page 10 
Tourney 
continuedfrom page 12 
"We're in the tournament now and looking forward to playing," said senior guard Dan Duff, a first­time participant in the NCAAs, like all his teammates save for Barry Spencer. "Anything can happen once you're in. Who knows how far we can go?" 
Should the Irish advance beyond Oregon State, they will be matched against the North Carolina-Middle Tennessee State winner. After that, the team which emerges from these four will travel to Birmingham, Ala., along with the twice­victorious among Kansas, Ohio U, Purdue and Auburn, for the regional semifinals on March 22. 
Yet, as far as Phelps is concern­ed, there can be no looking past Oregon State. 
"I'm just thinking about Oregon 
Women 
continuedfrom page 12 

through the first half to turn a tight 18-14 game into a 32-14 runaway. 
In the second half, things got worse for the Muskateers, as Notre Dame scored the first eight points after intermission to take a 51-28 lead. The Muskateers didn't help their own cause, as they shot a dismal 22 percent in the second half. For the game, Xavier hit on just 32 percent of its shots, while the Irish connected on an im­pressive 55 percent. 
In the scoring department, the Irish were paced by Mary Beth Schueth's 19 points and Sandy Botham's 18. Senior Laura Dougherty, who joined classmates Schueth and Ruth Kaiser in the starting lineup for their final regular season contest, contributed 10 points and five assists. Kaiser played her typically solid defensive game and added four points, two of those on a half-court shot that swished through the net as the final buzzer sounded. 
"There wasn't a lot of continuity to this game," said DiStanislao. "It was really a physical game. I'm proud of my players because they didn't come out flat for this game, State for now," said the Irish coach. "That's all we can do. You worry about North Carolina, you lose to Oregon State. It's as simple as that." 
The Irish and Beavers have had two common opponents this season, UCLA and Washington. Notre Dame nipped UCLA, 53-52, in Pauley Pavilion in February, and beat Washington, 57-50, a week ago yesterday in the ACC. The Beavers, meanwhile, split with both. Oregon State dropped the Bruins, 59-49, at home in Corvalis before losing the return game in L.A., 59-51. The Ralph Miller­coached Beavers beat the Huskies, 52-45, in Washington, but were taken to the cleaners in Corvalis later in the season, losing 60-45. 
Oregon State is paced by 6-9 senior forward A.C. Green, who averages 18.8 points a game and had a high of 39 points. The Beavers average 59.5 points as a 
even though we had just clinched the conference championship, and we were playing away from home against a team that we had beaten 
Notre Dame 78, Xavier 50 
Notre Dame (78) 

M FG-A FT-A R F P Keys 26 4-10 0-2 5 2 8 Kaiser 18 2-2 0-0 4 3 4 Schueth 33 9-12 1-1 10 2 19 Gavin 21 1-3 1-3 4 2 3 Dougherty 22 5-11 0-2 2 1 10 Ebben 24 3-6 0-0 2 2 6 Brommeland 11 3-4 2-2 4 1 8 Barron 4 0-1 0-0 0 0 0 Basford 15 1·6 0-0 3 3 2 Botham 21 9-11 0-0 4 2 18 Morrison 5 0-1 0-0 2 1 0 
200 37-67 4-10 40 19 78 

FG Pet. .552. FT Pet. -.400. Team rebounds -2. Turnovers -20. Assists -14 (Gavin, Dougherty 5). Technicals-none. 
Xavler(SO) 

M FG-A FT-A R F P Land 38 5-16 5-6 10 4 15 Maylath 260-40-0310 Myers 11 1-5 2-2 1 0 4 Fredrick 26 3-13 1-3 3 1 7 Carr 17 1-2 1-2 1 1 3 Phelan 25 4-6 1-1 3 1 9 Long 10-0 0-0000 Mescher 22 1-3 0-0 2 2 2 Sowers 13 2-8 0-0 0 3 4 Leonard 10-0 0·0000 Caughman 93-40-3616 Prebles 5 0-1 0-0 1 0 0 Kastner 6 0-1 0-0 0 0 0 
200 2Q-63 1Q-17 30 14 50 

FG Pet. .317. FT Pet. -.588. Team rebounds -0. Turnovers -15. Assists -14 (Fredrick, Mescher 3). Technicals-none. 
Halftime -Notre Dame 43, Xavier 28. Offi­cials· Don Dunthwaite, Ed Frazier. A-130. 
ROOTS. 

Every great community, large or sT1ULll, owes much to the people ofthe past wlw invested time arul effort in the future. And, like our many brick streets tlu.a never seem to wear out, so too does tlu.a pioneering spirit reT1ULin with (~ us today. 
Here's to all wlw ,~>~ luwe gone bifore u.s. ,Wl\ 
-~~ 
WITH PRIDE 
_5txt/,J?J"'~.,iJt. 
team to their opponents' 56.2. 
As far as the 64-team field of the tournament games, Phelps had nothing but praise. 
"The tournament selection com­mittee did an excellent job putting things together. They seeded everyone well," said Phelps. "It's an exciting field. I think the first and second rounds will be very in­teresting. 
"I think Michigan is the team to beat in our regional. We just have to do our own thing here at the ACC, though. The students have been a part of getting us here. There won't be a student section as such, but we still need them." 
The next three days will be filled with lots of hard work for the Irish, the same hard work that got them here in the first place. The payoff for that work will be Thursday night at 9:37 when the ball goes up in the air at the ACC. 
convincingly earlier this season (107-61 in the ACC on Feb. 9). 
"Overall, I'm pleased with this team. I think now we're where I wanted to be five years ago, where we are on a competitive level with the tournament-caliber teams in the NCAA." 
Whether or not the NWIT selec­tion committee agrees remains to be seen. The Irish have an im­pressive record and a conference ti­tle in their favor, but lack the strong schedule of many of the tournament-bound teams. 
"We base our decisions on won­loss records, strength of schedule and the area the school is located in," said Porter Crawford, a member of the NWIT selection committee. "Strength of schedule is probably more important than won-loss records, though." 
This afternoon, the Irish will find out just how much more im­portant. 

Tuesday, March 12,7:00 p.m. GRACE PIT PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIES 
GIVE US 
nMETOREPAY 
YOUR LOAN. 
If you've gone to college on a National Direct Student Loan, a Guaranteed Student Loan or a Federally Insured Student Loan made after October 1, 1975, and your loan is not in default, here's a way to get your loan repaid. 
Use the Army's Loan Repayment program. Each year you serve on active duty reduces your indebtedness by one-third or $1500, whichever amount is greater.ln a three-year P.nlistment, you eliminate your debt. 
Additionally, you could learn a valuable skill and take a_dvantage of many other Army opportunities. If you have the time, we have the money. 
Check it out with your Army Recruiter. 
SGT BRENNAN 234-4187 
ARMY. BEALLYOU CAM BE. 

The Graduate Faculty of Political and Social Science 
New School for Social Research Summer Institute in Critical Theory and Social Research 
Presentation ofthe classical concepts of the Frankfurt School and an analysis of 
present-day problems using a combination of old and new analytical instruments will 
form the base of this program. All Institute participants will attend a weekly seminar 
meeting where faculty papers will be presented and discussed. 
Guiding students in their study of the relationship ofcritical theory to the problems of contemporary social research and collective action will be the following distinguished scholars: 
• 
Andrew Arato-New School for Social Research 

• 
Jose Casanova-Passaic County College 

• 
Jeffrey C. Goldfarb-New School for Social Research 

• 
Alberto Melucci-University of Milan 

• 
Paul Piccone-Editor, Telos 

• 
Mihaly Vajda-fo!J11erly, Institute for Philosophy Hungarian Academy of Sciences 

• 
Joel Whitebook-New School for Social Research 


Summer Session begins June 10. You may enroll with The Graduate Faculty as a degree seeking student or on a non-degree basis. For more information on the Summer Institute or other degree programs, mail the coupon below or call (212) 74 I -57 I 0. 

NEW SCHOOL FOR SOCIAL RESEARCH Graduate Faculty Admissions 65 Fifth A venue New York, N.Y. 10003 
Iam interested in the Summer Institute in Critical Theory and Social Research. Please send: 0 aegree application 0 non-degree application 0 international student application 
Name 
Address 
City/State/Zip --------------------­Telephone ( 
5 

NEW SCHOOL FOR SOCIAL RESEARCH: A university which includes the Adult Division. Graduate Faculty of Polittcal and Social Sctence. Undergraduate Division. Graduate School of Management and Urban Professions. Parson> School of Design, and Otis ArtlnstituteofPar>ons in Los Anoele>. 
-~---·~ -------~----­

~t(Jt~C3L~------------------------------------------·M•o•n•d•a•y•,M--ar.c_h_l_1_,_1_9_8_5___
P_a_g_e_l_l 

Doonesbury 
I'M AR?Aif? IT'5 HeW !JECAU5[; OF YOU!< 
£6()? ({JMU FVl!cY THAT THe 
WHAT 
£60?
""-. 5TAR5 CJ(fj(j( 711£JR 
""' 

Zeto 
CAROL) ( VE /3EEN 
'WONCfRIN6, WHY DID YOOR PAAENTS NAME YOOR S\'Oll-IER'zcr6? 

Berke Breathed 
"~ (l€fr111Nfl1Hf: 811MIING 
Cf' 11/f: fOl!awtG IteMS 
fml1 'fl)(/f{ NElAISPPi'IJR : 1. 085UM: IW!?P5 
2. {lflf:TY WO/WS J. 11/f: WOf?/1 •THtf?W 'f. NII5TY ffC77/R65 ... 
/ 

The Daily Crossword 
C6(}5. 
I 

42 Winter blanket 43 Everyone 45 listed items 46 Officer 
trainees 
ACROSS 1 Leaf 5 Latvians  38 Physicist Niels 39 Vigilantly attentive  65 Tableland 66 Mimics 67 Mythical  11 Cliche for kids 12 Author Gardner  49 Young eel 51 Devoutness  
10 Pintail duck  40 Indigo  stream  13 Riverdam  
14 liter~ry  41 Except  23 Snakes  

Garry Trudt;au 
Campus 
8 a.m. -5 p.m. -Sign-ups, For Panel Discussion on Strategies for Success for Corporate and Profes­sional Women, Panel Will be on Wednesday, March 13 (3:30-5 p.m.), Career & Placement Services. 12 -4 p.m. -Social Concerns Information Ses­sion, The Oaretian Volunteers, Memorial Ubrary Concourse, Sponsored by Career & Placement Services and Center for Social Concerns, Free. 4:15p.m.-Meeting, NetworR for Peace &Justice, CSC Coffeehouse, All Interested People are Welcome. 
4:30 p.m. -Lecture, "Bioorganice Studies on Vis­ual Pigments and Bacteriorhodopsin," Prof. Koji Nakanishi, Columbia, Room 123 Nieuwland.

Kevin Walsh 
6 p.m. -Student Senate Meeting, Room 122 Hayes Healy. 6:30-8 p.m.-AIESEC Meeting, "Fruitbasket Fun," Grace Hall Party Room. 7 p.m. -Meeting, Angers Program, "Best & Most Trying Moments in Angers," Little Theatre, LaFortune. · 7 & 9:30 p.m. -Film,, "Hamlet," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by ND Shakespeare Club. 7 p.m.-Film, "Dark Circle," Carroll Hall. 7 & 9:15 p.m. -Monday Night Film Series, "Death in Venice," Annenberg Auditorium. 7:30p.m.-Graduate Students Meeting, To Dis­cuss Napolean Duarte's Role at Commencement and U.S. Role in Central America, Center for Social Concerns. 
TV Tonight 
7:30p.m. 8:00p.m. 
9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10:00p.m. ll:OOp.m. 
11:30 p.m. 
12:00 a.m. 
16 Barney Miller 
22 WKRP in Cincinnati 
28 Wheel of Fortune 
16 TV's Bloopers & Practical Jokes 
22 Scarecrow & Mrs. King 
28 2Hardcastle & McCormick 
34 Wonderworks 16 The Most Beautiful Girl in the World 
22 Kate & Allie 
28 Movie 
34 American Playhouse 
22 Newhart 
22 Cagney & Lacey 
16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 
34 Body Electric 
16 Tonight Show 
22 Simon & Simon/McMillan 
28 ABC News Nightline 
34 Movie -Svengali 
28 Love Connection 



52 Blend 53 Fr. statesman 54 Facilitate 55 Divan 57 lupino and 
others 60 Circuit 

T'-1!~~-r $AYI 

Better Prices 
than that nather stare11 an campus 
Schaal supplies * Health & Beauty needs 2nd Flaar LaFartune Open Man-Fri, 3 · 7 p.m 
r 
-~~----~-------..--~--~---~-~­
Monday, March 11, 1985 -page 12

S12orts 
Irish top Dayton, 80-73, gain NCAA tourney bid 
ND faces Oregon St. in first game at ACC 
By JEFF BLUMB 
Assistant Sports Editor 

It's taken four years, but the Notre Dame basketball team is tinally in the NCAA tournament again. Its 20­8 regular season record, coupled with its finish as the nation's top independent, was good enough yesterday to make the Irish the seventh seed in the Southeast Regional. An extra bonus was the placement of Notre Dame at the ACC for its first-and, if necessary, second-round game. 
The Beavers of Oregon State, 22-8 overall and holding third place in the Pac 10 with a 12-6 con­ference record, will be the foe Thursday night at 9:37. that game will be preceded earlier in the day by Kansas-Ohio University at 12:07, Purdue-Auburn at 2:37, and North Carolina-Middle Tennessee State at 7:07. 
1985 NCAA 
CHAMPIONSHIP 

Approximately 1,500 tickets for all games went on sale to the general public today at 9 a.m. at the Gate I 0 ticket office of the ACC. Tickets must be bought as a package for all six games to be at the ACC on Thursday and Saturday. Approximately 2,700 tickets had been available yesterday but the seven ACC visitors took close to 1,200 leaving Notre Dame the rest to sell. 
Under NCAA guidelines, tickets for individual Donald Royal (15) goes up inside against Dayton's Larry 
"We felt that we could get the ball inside. That was games cannot be sold until 24 hours prior to the start Schellenberg (II) as Jeff Zern (50) and Dave Colbert (44) position one of our game plans. We didn't think Dayton had

of the first game. There will be no sale of tickets ex­themselves/or the rebound. Royal's career-high 24 points and nine 
the quickness to contain Royal." 

pressly to students. rebounds were a major reason why the NCAA tournament-bound 
Royal led all scorers in the game, contributing 24

Irish coach Digger Phelps was all smiles after the Irish were able to beat Dayton on Saturday, 80-73, in double over­pairings were announced at 5:30 last evening. But he time. see FLYERS, page 9 
Royal's 24 points key in double-OT victory 
By JEFF BLUMB 
Assistant Sports Editor 
DAYTON, Ohio -A pressure-packed environment. A hostile crowd. A double-overtime game. A kill-or-· be-killed situation. The question one had to ask was, was this NCAA tournament conditions or Saturday's Notre Dame-Dayton basketball g·ame at UD Arena? 
Actually, both. 
In the end, it was five-point Notre Dame spurt to open the second overtime which was the difference as the Irish dropped the Flyers, 80-73, in a contest that had all the makings of an NCAA tournament game. The win gave Notre Dame a final regular season record of 20-8 overall and 4-2 against the Midwest in­dependents. Dayton, meanwhile, closed its season out at 19-9 and an even 3-3 in independent round-robin play. 
With Marquette's win over DePaul later in the after­noon, dropping the Blue Demons to 19-9 and 3-3, and the Irish emerged as the nation's top independent, in addition to capturing the mythical Catholic league. 
Donald Royal's backdoor layup off a pass from David Rivers with 2:34 left in the second extra session put Notre Dame up by four, 71-67. Royal was fouled by Dayton's Sedric Toney on the play, fouling Toney out of the game and giving the Notre Dame sophomore a chance at the three-point play. Royal proceeded to hit the free throw to cap off the Irish surge. 
"That's what won the game for us," said Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps of the big basket. "This was by far Donald's best game ever at Notre Dame. He played especially well at the end when we needed it. 

knows there is plenty of work before Thursday. 
"Oregon State is really respectable," Phelps said after the announce­ment. "You want to play at home, and being able to is a good break for us. But I'm sure Oregon State will play its best knowing that it has its 
backs against the wall coming in here. The key for us now is just to play the way we have the last two weeks. We're primed. 
"I'm sure we'll be here looking at (video) tapes until about midnight. We have tapes of Oregon State against UCLA and Washington. We'll practice (today), and then build the intensity on Tuesday and Wednesday." 
see TOURNEY, page 10 ND women win, hope for NWIT berth today 
By LARRY BURKE 
Sports Writer 
CINCINNATI The Notre Dame women's basketball team ac­complished the expected on Satur­day, dispensing of an overmatched Xavier team, 78-50, to pick up its eighth straight victory. Today, the Irish will know if they accomplish­ed a much larger goal, namely the first post-season tournament bid since the program made the jump to Division I five years ago. 
NCAA women's tournament bids were announced yesterday, and Notre Dame was not among the 32 teams selected. However, the Irish are still under consideration for the National Women's Invitational Tournament, which will announce its eight-team field this afternoon. 
Despite a 20-8 record and a North Star Conference champion­ship, Notre Dame's chances of get­ting into the NCAAs were slim. The North Star Conference cham­pion does not receive an automatic bid, and there are only 15 at-large bids available in the tournament. Irish hopes became even slimmer when upsets occurred in several of last week's conference tour­naments. Seven conferences, in fact, had at least two teams selec­
ted to the tournament, and 13 
unranked teams received bids. 
Notre Dame's impressive con­ference play led to a 13-1 NSC record, but ·coach Mary DiStanislao's squad ultimately lost out in the eyes of the selection com­mittee because of early season losses to tournament-bound teams such as Tennessee, UCLA and 
usc. 
"It's very disappointing," said DiStanislao, "especially because we know from all the teams we've seen this season that we are of the caliber of the teams in the NCAA Tournament. We didn't receive a bid, so we were obviously penalized for our early season losses. That's an important lesson to the players. You've got to play every game ­they all count." 
Saturday's game was a good ex­ample. Although the Irish had already wrapped up the conference title, a convincing win over the Muskateers was still necessary to strengthen Notre Dame's tourna­ment hopes. 
The Irish vanquished any possibility of a Xavier upset, however, as they ran off 14 
unanswered points midway 
see WOMEN, page 10 

Friday's Bengal Bout finals feature action-packed, hard-hitting fights 
ByJOE BRUNEITI 
Sports Writer 
With the amount of punches thrown and the intensity of the ac· tion at Friday night's Bengal Bout finals, it almost seemed as if Sugar Ray Leonard was fighting at Madison Square Garden. No, Suger Ray didn't fight and the Bouts were held at Stepan Center, but the action was nonetheless furious from the begin­ning. 
Jim Priola dominated Marshall "The Law" Rodgers enroute to his first 140-pound championship. Priola took command of the fight from the beginning, utilizing a straight left that connected more than a few times to Rodgers' head. The senior took Rodgers to the ropes in the first and after a series of combinations to the body and head Rodgers was almost knocked out of the ring. 
In the second, Priola pulled the same stunt and once again Rodgers almost landed on one of the judges lap. Rodgers started to show his fatigue later in the round and he began to drop his hands, leaving his face wide open for Priola to score points with his straight left. 
Priola finished the fight relatively unscathed. while his counterpart couldn't boast ofsuch luck. 
The 140-pound final. pitting Tom "the Bull" L.ezynski against Ed "Munster" Kelly, was built up as one of the best fights of the night, and it lived up to its expectations. 
While round one went to L.ezynski, the second round was a different story. Kelly sent a blister­ing right to l.ezynski's head. The ref­eree, acting prematurely, gave Lezynski a standing eight count. At the end of the round Kelly and L.ezynski got into a furious exchange offlurries against the ropes. 
With Lezynski having won round one and Kelly round two, the last round laid it all on the line. Both fighters knew it, and after a furious third it was Kelly who had his second championship. 
"Smokin"' Joe Collins survived a dogfight with Todd Lillie in the semis, and the I 50· pound junior had enough left Friday night to collect his first Bengals crown over Jim "Quick" Silver. Collins took control of the match and had Silver in trou· ble many times throughout the bout, but was unable to finish off his op· ponent. The combinations that did connect. however, scored enough points to give Collins the unanimous decision. 
Ed Reilly outslugged I 55-pound opponentJeff Anhut for his tirst Ben­gals crown. Reilly delivered some deadly combinations in the tirst, and he missed on an uppercut that would have sent Anhut reeling. In the second and third rounds Anhut went on the attack, but Reilly warded him otf with a left jab that met Anhut's face many times. 
After Ed "Wolf' Gavagan survived a brawl with joe Simmons in the semis, and Dan Watzke was never really challenged in his semitinal bout, it seemed that (iavagan would have the advantage going in to Friday night's 160-pound tlnal. That was not how things turned out, however. 
After a quiet first, Watzke started to strut his stuff. The senior didn) lose control and start throwing garbage. Instead he picked apart Gavagan, and when he threw some· thing it almost always hit something of Gavagan's. At the end Gavagan was exhausted, but it was Watzke who had his first championship. 
The 165-pound championship, as expected, wa.~ a brawl. It pitted Tom Hardart against Don "Transpo" Antrobus. Antrobus had TKO'd his first two opponents and Hardart en· 
tered  the  tournament  a.~  the  
number-one-seed.  Ironically,  the  
two fighters are best friends.  

In the first, Hardart didn't throw a whole lot of punches, but the few he did he connected on. Antrobus used his devastating right all night, and he threw one in the first that sent liar­dart flying back. 
In the second the tight became a bloodbath. Antrobus threw sen::ral combinations that left Hardart's face looking like a piece of prime rib. Hardart wa.~ seeing stars and almost hit the canvas several times. 
Hardart answered the bell in tht· third, but he would have heen better off staying in his corner. Antrobu~. once again, dished up some of his power-packed combinations that only worsened llardart's mental state, and llardart's corner wanted the light stopped several times. The referee finally did stop tht· fight at 
I: 12 of the third. 
Antrobus collectt·d his third TKO and pron·d to be one of the most dangerous fighters of the Bengals. 
Grant ""(iale Force" Gailus is dan· gerous in the ring, and now all of his opponents know it. lie TKO'd <ireg Rowe by the :\!-second mark of the first round in his quarterfinal match. lie beat up Tim Lyons in the semis enroute to a unanimous decision. And Friday night he knocked out Dave Packo in the first 4 .~ seconds of 
see BOUTS, page 8 


