Accuracy in Academia -page 7 


APPboto
Seasonal site 
With the U.S. Capitol as a backdrop, a tree on the htngton D.C. ts glowtng for Christmas as the na· grounds of the Smithsonian lnstttutton tn Was-tton's capttol begtns to sparkle for the holidays. 
WASHINGTON · In the wake of spy scandals, President Reagan has ordered that lie detector tests be given to government employees, ranging all the way up to Cabinet secretaries, with access to highly secret information. 
Even as the president's action · taken Nov. 1 but kept secret · was disclosed yesterday, Secretary of State George Shultz was described as being opposed to using lie detec· tors, whose reliability has been questioned and are viewed by some as an invasion ofprivacy. 
Would Shultz submit to a lie detector test? "I can't answer," said State Department spokesman Charles Redman. "I don't know." 
"As a matter of principle, he Is against the Idea," said a State Depart· ment official who declined to be identified. The official said Shultz · now traveling in Europe · has held that view for a long time, and opposes the use of lie detectors not only on himselfbut on others. 
White House spokesman Larry Speakes said he did not know how many people would be required to take the tests, but the Los Angeles Times, which first revealed Reagan's decision, said that up to 10,000 people could be affected, including 4,000 people at the State Depart· ment. 
Rep. Don Edwards, D-Callf., denounced Reagan's "sudden secret order" as "contrary to the cautious approach to polygraph tests that everybody else has taken in both houses of Congress and at the Department of Defense." 
Speakes said the tests "will be applied to a selective number ofoffi· cials who have highest levels of access to classified information, especially communications security and other compartmentalized in­formation." 
Compartmentalization is a procedure under which a person with a security clearance is per-
see LIE, page 4 

Senate approves deficit bill; House 'dooms' tax plan 
As8ociated Press he will deliver the votes. Otherwise, 
Dec. 11 will be remembered as the 
WASHINGTON -The Senate gave date that Ronald Reagan became a 
61-31 approval yesterday to a novel 'lame duck' on the floor of the 
bill designed to wipe out the na· House." 
tion's S200 billion deficits by 1991. The drama on taxes and the 
A rebellious House, meanwhile, balanced budget plan unfolded on 
sidetracked far-reaching tax over· the House and Senate floors as 
haul legislation · possibly dooming leaders of the two houses began 
President Reagan's top legislative negotiations on a mammoth, catch­
priority for the year. all spending bill needed to replenish 
The Senate vote came despite al-federal coffers for the current fiscal 
legations that the landmark budget year by tonight at midnight. In early 
balancing plan was "unthinking, un-maneuvering, the Senate agreed un­
necessary, unwarranted and perhaps der administration pressure to drop 
unconstitutional," and sent the a S55 million emergency job train· 
measure to a waiting House for final ing program for Vietnam Veterans. 
action. In a separate room in the sprawl· 
The plan, attached to a measure ing Capitol complex, meanwhile, 
raising the debt limit above $2 tell· lawmakers labored to draft long­
lion, would require defense and term farm legislation. 
domestic program cuts of $11.7 bil-Senate Majority Leader Robert 
lion early next year as a down pay-Dole told reporters there was "still a 
nient on the deficit. · glimmer" that Congress could close 
In the House, the 223-202 vote to up shop by the end ofthe week, even 
bottle up the most sweeping change though Reagan was holding out veto 
in the tax laws in a lifetime was threats for any spending or farm 
sparked by Republicans acting in measure that he deemed too costly. 
defiance of President Reagan's Lawmakers had long ago given up 
wishes. hope of enacting tax overhaul 
House Speaker Thomas O'Neill, legislation this year. They had 
said the vote showed Republicans settled instead on a strategy of 
had "turned their backs on the man moving a bill through the House and 
who had brought them victory and postponing Senate consideration 
pride," but said Democrats were until next year. Reagan has placed 
ready to try again with the tax bill if the issue at the top of his second· 
Reagan could produce enough GOP term domestic agenda, and urged 
votes to assure success. lawmakers to approve a 
The president responded by dis-Democratic-drafted plan as a "first 
patching top aides to the Capitol and step." 
summoning recalcitrant GOP law-But on the 223-202 vote, law­
makers to the White House. "The makers refused to consider either 
president said to me, 'I hope you will the Democratic plan or a GOP at­
not let me down,'" said one visitor, · ternative, with 164 of 182 
Rep. William Carney, R-N.Y.. Republicans joining 59 Democrats 
Reagan himself appeared before in opposition. 
reporters and television cameras The blueprint for a balanced 
and said, " we do not believe that budget was worked out during 
after all our good-faith efforts on weeks of tedious negotiations, and 
both sides of the aisle, that our work would trigger automatic spending 
should be lost for lack ofa handful of cuts in defense and domestic 
votes." program If Congress did not meet 
Republican leaders insisted the pre-designated deficit reduction tar· 
stunning vote was not a defeat for gets for each ofthe next five years. 
the president, but O'Neill, D-Mass., The first cuts would total 511.7 
had another interpretation. "Today, billion, and would be made early 
with glee in their faces, Republican next year. Social Security and 
congressmen voted to humiliate the several poverty programs would be 
man who had led them to victory," exempt from the cuts, while the 
he said. reductions would be cushioned for 
O'Neill added, "If the president Medicare and certain other health 
really cares about tax reform, then programs. 
Britain, Ireland put Northern Ireland agreement to test 
BELFAST, Northern Ireland· Of· ficials of Britain and Ireland put their new Northern Ireland agree· ment into practice yesterday, but they met behind a barbed-wire barrier to keep out angry Protes· tants who want the troubled province to remain forever British. 
The delegations were led by Peter Barry, the Irish foreign mini· ster, and Tom King, Britain's Nor­thern Ireland secretary. Their meeting marked formal im· plementation of the Nov. 1 5 ac· cord giving Ireland a consultative role in the administration of the predominantly Protestant province. 
Thirty-five miles southwes,t of the meeting site, a police station in the village of Tynan was hit by mortar shells and four officers were wounded, police in Belfast said. 
There was no immediate claim ofresponsibility, but the mortar at· ta<:k on the station, which Is less than two miles from the border with the Irish Republic, was similar to numerous assaults by the Irish Republican Army. 
The IRA, outlawed on both sides ofthe border, is fighting a guerrilla wa.r to drive the British out of the province. 
A statement issued at the end of the daylong Northern Ireland meeting affirmed the two govern· ments' "total rejection" of any at· tempt to promote political objectives by violence or threat of violence. 
The officials paid "particular at· tention to methods of improving the existing coordination of 
security activities on both sides of 
the border," the statement said. 
Protests included a rally by thousands of Protestant industrial workers. Most demonstrations were peaceful, but police said 32 oftheir men suffered slight injuries in scumes, and six required hospi­tal treatment. 
The Nov. 15 agreement re· quired the first session of the Anglo-Irish Intergovernmental Conference to discuss reforming the police and army to make theni more acceptable to the Roman Catholic minority, and to improve Anglo-Irish security cooperation against the Irish Republiean Army. 
Militant Protestants view the Anglo-Irish accord as interference in Ulster's affairs ·by the Irish Republic, which is 95 percent Cat· holic, and weakening their union with Britain. 
Yesterday's meeting was held behind barbed-wire fences, roadblocks and hundreds of policemen at the Stormont Castle compound, home of the largely powerless provincial parliament. 
r 
r 
,' r ,
, 
J 
r
, 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
I r 
• 
....
-----------~ 
The Observer 
In Brief 

Complaints have been filed against the Uni­versity of Minnesota policy by three students arrested for an anti­apartheid sit-in at the University president's office. The students said police incapacitated them with mace as they loaded them into a police van, and then drove around for 30 minutes, stopping and starting quickly and slamming them against the sides of the van, in­stead ofdriving straight to the police station. The students also r•~ .. to file complaints against the Minneapolis pollee. -The Obseroer 
James Carberry,professor of chemical engineering at Notre Dame, ha.'i been elected a visiting fellow at Clare Hall, a research college of Cambridge University, England. His term begins in 1987. Carberry has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1961. He has served previous visiting fellowships at Cambridge, as well as lectureships in Saudi Arabia, Nigeria and West Germany. He is a recipient of the American Institute of Chemical Engineer's R.H. Wilhelm Award and the Yale University Engineering Association Award. He is also an elected fellow of the New York Academy of Sciences and the Royal Society of Arts, London. -The 
Obseroer 

Gov. Mario Cuomo might make a good president, said Mayor Edward Koch on Tuesday's "Today" show. Koch was interviewed on NBC's program and was asked if he thought Cuomo, a past rival for the mayor's job and governor, would make a better president than governor. "Well, I think that he has the potential of being a good president," Koch responded. "I'm not going to commit 
myself at this point, but I'm proud of the fact that a New Yorker -in this case Mario Cuomo -without question has to be a leading can­didate at the Democratic convention" in 1988. Gov. Cuomo spoke at Notre Dame last year regarding the abortion issue. -AP 
The Statue of Liberty had the final three refur­bished spikes placed on its crown Tuesday, completing the exterior restoration of the 305-foot monument in New York Harbor. The spikes, all 9 feet long and weighing from 150 to 200 pounds, were fitted Into the slots on the crown and bolted In place, said Henning Nielsen, director ofpublic affairs for the Statue ofUberty-Ellis Island Foundation. The completed statue will be unveiled at celebrations scheduled for the Fonh ofJuly next year and the structure's actual centennial day, Oct. 28, 1986. -AP 
Of Interest 

New York club members can sign up for the Christmas break bus tonight on the second floor ofLaFonune at 7.­
Tbe Obseroer 

Auditions for the Tempest will be held on the first Friday and Saturday after break Oan. 17 and 18). Please prepare a two­minute selection from the play. For an audition appointment, call 239-5134. Auditions are open to all students, faculty, staff ·and townspeople. -Tbe Obseroer 
Weather 

Will iteverstop? Not today. There 
... ·I is a 20 percent chance of snow showers today with the high near 30. Winds becoming east at 10 mph. Tonight there is a 70 percent chance of snow with lows In the upper 20s. Tomorrow there is an 80 percent chance ofsnow with the high about 30. -AP .. 
Thursday, December 12, 1985 -page 2 
Large class sizes detrimental to reaching learning potential 
The Washington Hall stage is bare, except for a man with an overhead projector next to him. Yet the bal­cony is filled and the lower seating is at full capacity. 
This scenario is really not so unusual. It is not the opening ofa one-man play; it is simply another class at Notre Dame, only this one is composed of ap­proximately 500 stud.ents. 
Incoming students are told many things about the University, and in the last three semesters I have found the vast majority of them to be true. Howev~r. classes composed of more than 200 student~ make me ques-. tion the thirteen to one student/faculty ratio stated in the Admissions Office Information Booklet. In looking at the faculty roster, I realize the 13 to 1 statistic is accurate, but why must there bt: such an imbalance in class size? Why does the University feel a need to allow unlimited numbers of students in certain classes? 
At larger universities, 200 student classes are a way of life; lhis is why I chose not to go to a large university. 

ScoH Bearby 
Assistant News Editor 
wrong. 

Please note that my complaint does not concern the quality of the professors. They are victims of cir­cumstance just as much as the students are. To com­municate a subject 150 minutes a week is difficult enough; to consistently make their point to 500 stu­dents is an art. 
A professor who teaches class to a near-capaCity crowd in another large auditorium has made the com­ment that students must ask questions in such a large 
Although I did not expect . class. He added that in smal­thirteen-person classes here ler classes he can sense at Notre Dame, I did expect when students are confused to have more direct about a topic he is lecturing faculty/student contact. on, but in the large setting 
Although professors may he cannot. Should he be ex­be available outside ofclass, pected to read the minds of office hours can only go so more than 250 students all far. It can be said th~t most at the same time? students do not utilize office Granted, many types of hours, but I suspect one of subjects can withstand the main reasons for the lack larger class sizes without an of contact is· because they adverse effect upon the really do not know the learning process, but the professor. maximums have been vi­
In fact, their one-on-one olated on several occasions. meeting may be the first It is understandable for ad­time the student has ever vanced classes to have smal­spoken with the teacher ler numbers of students and directly. The initial meeting for introductory classes to can be quite uncomfortable be larger, but the differences 

when neither party is familiar with the other. 
Funher, a professo1r cannot be expected to be aware ofstudent performance with such large classes. Instead, grades are attributed to a social security number. 
In a class of more than 200 stllldents, questions tend to go unanswered:· Only one question has been asked during the sem~ster in my Washington Hall class, and because the student was on the other side ofthe room, I was not able to hear him clearly. 
Washington Hall is not usually filled to capacity, as it is on test days. Betwjeen one-quarter to one-half of the students are absent each class period. Some of these students just may be lazy and would not attend class regularly under any circumstances, but others are not. The general consensus among them is that they are not learning a great deal from the lectures. 
This evidently must be true, as my average test score is no higher than the scores of many who make only an occoiSional appearance in class. There is something 
ALLIED SHIPPING 
Air& UPS 219-277-7616 
We pack and Ship 
in size should not be so extreme. 

If introductory classes remain as large as some of them are now, there is a strong possibility students will not retain the basic principles necessary for advanced classes. Even if a student decides to take no further courses in a certain discipline after an introductory class, he should at least have the opportunity to get a full understanding ofthe subject. 
Hopefully Washington Hall and other large rooms on campus will continue to be sites for plays, movies, and guest speakers. However, the overhead projector and students will be much more comfortable in smaller rooms when it is time to start class. 
Celebrate Life! 


I·IOURS: 1 -7 Mon -Fri 
·"C(IQoweh~ fph aQQ or,(~O~io~~
10 a.m. -4 Sat 
Come in and Browse

UNIVERSITY COMMONS 
327 Lincolnway 232-3354
SR23 


SENIORS Learn, Grow, Give and Love 
Take a Chance I Holy Cross Associates 
A chance ofa lifetime to be involved in Christian service and community living. 
Avondale, Arizona Colorado Springs, Colorado Hayward, California Portland, Oregon 


APPLIC.ATIONDEADUNE-JANUARY 31. 

Design Editor................. MMk McLaughlin Design Asststant ..................AIIcc Kroeger Layout Staff......................... Wendy Mogan 
Greg Devera 
Typesetters .................... lk:cky Gunderman 
Chuck Papandrea News Editor........................ Mary Heilmann Copy Editor ........................ Margie .U,I'!ltcn Sports Copy Edttor........ Erlc Schuermann Viewpoint Copy Editor ........ Doug Hasler 

Viewpoint Layout ................. Caroillrown Features Copy Editor................... Ed Nolan Features Layout............... MarieI Labrador ND Day Editor................... Sharon Emmit<: SMC Day Editor.................... Priscilla Karle Ad Design .................. Mary Carol Crcadon 
JoanWrapJ><' 

Peter Georges Slotman ........................... Chuck Papandr"" Supplmumt Layout...... Mark McLaughlin Photographer............................ Pete Laches 
lbe Obllerver ( l 'SPS ~99 l· ~000 l is published Monday through Friday ncepl during ~xam and vacation periods. lbe Obooerver is pubhshed by the stud.,nts of th~ l'niversity of Notr~ l>am~ and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchastd for f:iO per y~ar ( llll J><'r !oemest~r l by writing lbe Obllerver, P.O. Box Q. Notr~ l>am~. Indiana ~M~6 
lbe Obee~r is a m~mber of lbe AMoclated Prne. All reproduction righr. are rrsrrvrd 

The Observer Thursday, December 12, 1985 -page 3 

ND management class participates in 'Stock Trading Championship' 
the money. PMA acted as their finance person and I am interested
By MARY BERGER 

broker, handling the transactions in marketing," he said, "but it gave
StaffReporter 

and charging competitive commis­me information I never would have 
"A game to bridge the gap bet­sions to the teams' accounts. come across otherwise." ween theory and practice" of finan­The team which had the largest Participation in the contest ac­cial dealings is how Kevin Scanlon, portfolio value at the closing of the counts for one quarter of the stu­assistant professor of finance and contest was named the national win-dents' grades. Actual gains and losses business, defined the National Col­are considered as well as a paper legiate Stock Trading Championship each team must write analyzing which some Notre Dame MBA stu­their methods and performances. dents participated in this fall. Cunningham felt the paper was a 
Students in Scanlon's portfolio good exercise in preparation for real management class were required to life. "It's like going before a board of compete in the mock stock trading directors and telling them what you contest. did, why you did it, and what came 
"They learned a lot about the ofit." stock market they wouldn't have Scanlon said the experience the learned reading from a book," Scan­students gained was twofold. lon commented. "Seeing their picks "Practically, they found out what in­go up and down really drove the fluences the price of a stock and points home." "I learned with play money," he exw 
Portfolio Management Associa­plained. "But it was a psychology les­tion of Bowling Green, Kentucky son as well as a financial one. Some sponsors the contest twice a year. students told me they were losing This fall's contest was held from sleep over it. I told them they had Sept. 24 until Nov. 29 and was Notre just made a career decision. If they Dame's first year ofparticipation. Et­were losing sleep over a game, what han Reed, the founder ofthe contest, about when it is real?" promotes it as, "a means for the busi­ness student to further enhance his 
APPboco 

education and receive recogrlition
First Dog 
for it," according to the entry form. 
Only theoretical money is in­
CbefHans Raffert offers Nancy Reagan's dog Rex a gingerbread 
this is another inexpensive Observer personal ad
volved in the trading. According to
cookie as tbe First Lady and actor Larry Hagman, dressed as Santa 
Scanlon, each team started with
Claus, tour tbe White House to see tbe recently unveiled Christmas 
aso,ooo and then proceeded to fol­
low their own strategies ofinvestina 
decorations. 
A STEVEN SPIElBERG FIUv1 
~ 
Alice Walker's Pulitzer Prize Winning Story 
Its about life. Its about love. Its about us. 

WARNER BROS. Presents A STEVEN SPIELBERG Film THE COLOR PURPLE Stamng DANNY GLOVER ADOLPH CAESAR • MARGARET AVERY· RAE DAWN CHONG and Introducing WHOOP! GOLDBERG as Celie Director of Photography ALLEN DAVIAU Production Designer J. MICHAEL RIVA Music QUINCY JONES 
Based upon the novel by ALICE WALKER Screenplay by MENNO MEYJES Executive Producers JON PETERS and PETER GUBER Produced by STEVEN SPIELBERG· KATHLEEN KENNEDY • FRANK MARSHALL and QUINCY JONES Directed by STEVEN SPIELBERG FROM WARNER BROS. 111~-~~,[]01 "'""".,.,..,I. .~ IXARSER COMML'SICATIONS L'llMPANY ~ I

Read the Pocket Book 
.. ,,hfCIIDit<fAl~'> C~<~Wo\\.,....."'"""1"' \IIR....... ~o:d '--.: 
SHARE 1HE JOY FRIDAY, DECEMBER 20th .AT A 1HEA1RE NEARYOU! 
l 

Patty, Cath, Mary, Jeanne, Susan, Mary, John, John Bro, Millwright, Mart, Anne, Steve, Lou, Russ, Paul, Jerry, Joe, Tom, Jack, 
••• and aU the little children. 
LOVE, yourguardian angel, ALICE 
CONTACT LENS 
SALE 
IL Y WEAR SOFT ONTACT LENSES 
, ~ 
, ~ 1 
, 
~ 


$39.98 , 
•rtJ,,,,..,,Tintcontact!ensesthatnotonly $79 9 8 
your vision, they make your eyes • and exciting. Available in blue, 
rquoise, emerald green and brown. 
does not include an eye examination which is required at the time of purchase. 
Visa-MasterCard-Medicaid-Insurance Programs Welcome Open 6 Days A Week With Evening Hours 
SOUTH BEND: 1111 E IRELAND RD... 291400 MISHAWAKA: 506 W McKINLEY 
Also Offices in Indianapolis, Shelbyville, Kokomo, Lafayette, Anderson, Terre Haute,Richmond, New Castle, Franklin, Munci" Marion 

The Observer 

Marcos announces running mate pick 
MANILA, Philippines -The op­position united behind Corazon Aquino as its presidential candidate yesterday, and Ferdinand Marcos chose as his running mate a former foreign minister whom he fired last March for criticizing him. 
Marcos, who has been president for 20 years, and Mrs. Aquino, who blames Marcos for her husband's as­sassination In 1983, will face each other In a special presidential elec­tion Feb. 7. Benigno Aquino was the president's main political foe .• 
Doubts remain about whether the election will take place. A supreme Coun hearing on its con­stitutionality is set for next week, and some opposition leaders spec­ulate that Marcos may influence the coun to call it off. 
Aquino, 52, and the other leading opposition candidate, former Sen. Salvador Laurel, 56, settled a politi­cal dispute and showed up at the Na­tional Election Commission offices an hour before the midnight ffiing deadline. 
They changed the presidential candidacies both had registered and rued for president and vice presi­dent, with Aquino changing her af· ffiiation to represent Laurel's party. About 200 supponers applauded 

and cheered them on. 
"This Is the ticket that scares the 
daylights out of Marcos," said 
Homobono Adaza, an opposition 
member ofthe National Assembly. 
Marcos, 68, chose Anuro Tolen­
tino, 75, as his vice presidential can­
didate and political successor. 
Tolentino, fired as foreign minister 
for criticizing the president's 
policies, has said he believes the 
election Is illegal. 
The president scheduled the vote 13 months ahead of time as a means of demonstrating his popularity to critics · notably his main ally, the United States. The constitution provides for a special election only if the president dies, is disabled or im­peached or if he resigns before it is held, which Marcos has refused to do. 
Delegates to a convention of the ruling New Society Movement cheered the choice of Tolentino louder and longer than any ponion of the president's speech, which outlined his program and accused his opponents of supponing com­munist terrorism. 
The Phillippines faces a growing communist insurgency, and the United States has urged that the military be reorganized to deal with it. 
Thursday, December 12, 1985-page 4 

Lie 
continuedfrom page 1 

mltted to see only those secrets which are penlnent to his work so if such a person became a spy he would not be able to give a foreign power the whole picture. 
"The test will be mandatory for people who have to obtain clearances for such sensitive in­formation," Speakes said. Thus, it would Include government contrac­tors as well as employees. 
"This doesn't include everybody with security clearances but it in­cludes the highest level," Speakes said of the number likely to be re­qulced to take polygraphs. 
People who already have security clearances for highly secret Informa­tion would be subject to randomly Employees of the CIA and Na­
tional Security Agency already are 
requlced to take lie detector tests as 
a condition of employment. The 
Pentagon also requlces some of, its 
employees to take the tests. 
Reagan's order, spelled out in a 
secret National Security Decision 
Directive signed Nov. 1, is the latest 
step in the administration's long­
running campaign to clamp down 
on news leaks and the disclosure of 
classified Information. 
In 1983, Reagan proposed a huge expansion ofthe use oflie detectors which, if fully implemented, would have affected more than 3. 7 million federal and contract employees, ac­cording to estimates by the General Accounting Office. That plan was rolled back in the face ofwidespread opposition In Congress. 
Scubadivers••• 

Christmas Sale & Film Festival at The Mermaid's Quest 

8am-8pm 


Valentine's Day Caribbean Trip 

305 E. McKinley, U.S. 20 E. Mishawaka, IN 46545 (219)256-6875 
................... 

AnuJuninr 
Who did not receive Info at home during break regarding 
Junior Jlarrnt& lllttktnb 
Sign Up In the 
In Student Activities Office, LaFortune THIS WEEK 
Pbtltppine President Ferdinand Marcos, left, and former Foreign Minister Arturo Tolentino, right, raise their arms together following President Marco's announcement yesterday that Tolentino wtll bebis runnirlg matefor tbe ruling New Society 
Learn the facts about cancer. . And make not knowing the risks, one Jess risk. 


How you live may save your life. 

Our firm's greatest strength is its people, and that's atradition we intend to continue. We want the best to work with us. 
Our partners and staff have the highest technical skills. And they're people who care, people who teach, people who understand today's accounting profession. 
They understand that technical quality has to be developed equally with quality business judgment. 
Movement party in tbe Feb. 7prestaenttal election. Tbe announcement was made during tbe party's national convention at tbe Mantia bote/ in Manila, Pbtltppines. 

Our recruiting philosophy Is very simple: Outstanding people attract outstanding clients. 
On the job and in our training program they work to impart the key strengths that prepare staff for increasing responsibilities, and help them develop the judgment to reach sound business decisions. 
For It is our people, 
after all, who create 
our quality that works 
for business. 
Deloitte 
Hasklns+Sells 
USA 
---~-~ 

The Observer Thursday, December 12, 1985 -page 5 

Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Theatre announces auditions for 
SIDE STORY 
Preliminary dance auditions: T~an. 14 in the Darlce Studio, Saint Mary's at 7:10p.m. 
The readin~d musical auditions: Wednesday, Jan. 15, and Th'Ursday, Jan. 16 in O'Laughlin A Saint Mary's, 7:16p.m. 
Prepare two contras~g short monologues and a song from West Side Sto"ry. 


Opens Friday, December 13th 
PG~--_,111·:~
--------.­

At A Theatre Near You. ........., . .._..._..... ~-..--~ ..
---...._......,,.___,
~ 

A new Chicago-area cbeerleading group called "Ed's Re.frigerettes," inspired by Chicago Bears' Wil­liam "Refrigerator" Perry and fotmed by Chicago restauranteer Richard Melman, make tbeir debut at Ed Debevic's Short Orders Deluxe Restaurant Tues­day night. Tbe women, chosen on tbe basis ofat­tractiveness, heaviness, andpoise, are not officially associated with tbe Bears football team . 
Dietician offers advice to students on how to avoid winter weight gain 
ByGREGTUEL 
News Staff 

The conception that it is natural to gain weight during the winter months is mistaken, according to Cindy Tansek, registered dietician at Memorial Hospital of South Bend. 
"It is not like hibernation," she ex­plained, "it is a matter of taking in more than you burn off." 
"There ace a lot of weather­related activities which the weather does not permit. People get bored, so they eat more," she said, explain­ing why people gain so much weight this time ofyear. 
Studying also can be a cause of weight gain, Tansck said, "People eat to procrastinate, so they don't have to study." 
Although the problem ofweight is not an easy one to solve, Tansek gave advice to help control the annual engagement with fat. 
She warned students about skip­
ping meals. "Eat regulae meals three 
times a day to control binges," she 
said. She cautioned students to 
"never skip a breakfast, because you 
overeat later." 

During those three meals, the stu­dent should avoid fatty foods, espe­cially butter and anything fried, Tansek said, noting, "they have twice the calories (ofother foods)." Instead, the student should eat a lot of carbohydrates, she said. Car­bohydrates allow the body "to feel satisfied, and burn calories," Tansek 

explained. 
Tansek said despite good eating habits, students still must be willing to sweat if they wish to maintain their weight. Weight maintenance requires both dieting and excercise, she said. 
"It is not realistic to have one wit­
hout the other," Tansek said. She 
advised the student to work out for 
at least 20 minutes, three times a 
week. Tansek said this workout 
should be aerobic, and "not just sit­
ups and push-ups." 

Patience is a virtue with regard to weight loss, Tansek said. 
"Your body can only lose fat at a certain rate," she said. People who crash-diet never "learn to eat properly," and, as a result, they even­tually regain the unwanted pounds, she explained. "You can't keep it (weight) off long term, unless it is lost slowly," Tansek said. 
Popular diet plans ace not the answer, she said. 
"There is nothing magical about food," Tansek said. "A person cannot expect foods to work together, and, miraculously, rid them of extra luggage," she said. 
Diet pills ace equally useless, she said. "They only work three weeks," Tansek said. 
The answer to the problem of winter fat is simple and drug-free, she said. "You have to put down your knife and fork," she said. 
Fraternity rapes plague campuses 
AS80Ciated Press 

WASHINGTON-The rape of col­lege coeds by groups of male stu­dents, generally at fraternity parties, is a largely unacknowledged problem that plagues private and public institutions nationwide, a non-profit study group said Tuesday. 
The group saiJ it found such inci­dents, mostly involving women who had been drinking alcohol or taking drugs, had occurred at more than 50 campuses in the last two years. 
At two or three schools, the frater­nities involved were suspended, but generally the incidents go un­punished even though rape is a felony in most states, said Bernice Sandler, director of the Project on the Status and Education ofWomen, an arm of the Association of American Colleges that conducted reports of gang rapes happening every week at parties. Apparently this behavior is far more common than anyone suspected," said Julie Ehrhart, co-author of the group's report called "Campus Gang Rape: party Games?" 
Sandler said the fraternities often encourage and even plan such ac­tivity, with a "gang mentality" that does not view the behavior as rape. 
About 90 percent of the cases oc­curred at fraternity parties, with generally the same scenario, she said. 
"In many cases, but by no means in all, a young woman often has had too much to drink and-or too many drugs," the report said. "Therefore she may be unaware that the 'friendly' persuasion of the (fraternity) brothers is actually a ment, her confusion has changed to fear and panic, and escape seems im­possible. She is unable to protest or her protests ace ignored. Anywhere from two to eleven or more men rape her." 
In one case where a freshman at her first fraternity party went upstairs with three men to get out of the crowd, the door was locked be­hind her and the men raped her despite her feeble protests. She told school officials at the prestigious Eastern school and asked why the administration didn't warn fresh­men about such situations, said Sandler. 
"The school said it would scare people too much," and did nothing, Sandler said. 
Sandler said schools involved in the incidents were not named, be­cause "we felt rather than point the finger at various institutions, itreally 
the study. planned pursuit of easy prey. By the was more important to get this out "On some campuses, we heard time she recognizes her predica-in public." 
,'l...ill...i.il«......ill...i.ii...Q...Q...Q...Q-Q'CI'QC'Q.....QCI'Q'CI'Q'CI'"'·CI'QGI'"'_Q_Q_Q_Q..... Q'CI'Q ...Q'...Q'...Q_Q_Q_..,_Q'ti'Q....Q-cll''i 
r~ John Mennell. • • So you died and went to SMC heaven? !'.•, 
.. Make sure we get wedding invitations! 
_..,_Q_Q'CVQ-cii'Q-cii'Q_..,_Q_Q_Q'CI'Q·CI'i,ia-cii'Q'CI'Q·CI't;~-ci'Q'CI'Q'GI'Q-cii'Q-cii'Q-cii'Q-cii'Q-cll't;I'CI'Q ..... t;I'CII'Q·CII'"'-cii'Q-CI'Q ...Q-cii'Q...Q'CII'i;l...i;I.J'
' t 
Accent 
Thursday, December 12, 1985 -page 6 
Chronilogical walk through Bunnymen's time 
Evolution of band's sound and theme 
CAROLINE GD.LESPIE 
featu~ writer 

T 
his Is one of those albums that 
you've always wanted one of 
youc favorite groups to release. 
After five albums, the long-awaited 
compilation album from Echo and 
the Bunnymen, Songs to Learn & 

Sing, has arrived. This British band 
with Its dack brooding music 
combines some ofIts best music on 
this album. 
Records 
Songs to Learn 

f 
r 

\\ ~ *** & Sing 

, r 
r 
, 
The album begins with songs 
, from Echo's earlier period includ­ing "Rescue" and "Do It Clean" with
r 
, ~ 
, 
lyrics less complex and music 
tightly organized. 
Following the group chronologi­cally, the album leads us to Echo's heavier, sombre music from Ocean Rain, its most recent album prior to the compilation. 
"A Promise" from Heaven Up Here, an earlier album, Is clean-cut musically and lyrically. The song Is about an unhonored promise and the music is simple-a bass, a guitar, drums and a lead singer. 
"The Killing Moon," "Silver" and "Seven Seas," all from Echo's 1984 Ocean Rain album, ace full ofor­chestral music intertwined with thought provoking lyrics. The opening lines from "Silver:" 
Swungfrom a chandelier Myplanet sweet on a silver salver 
plunge the listener into Echo's 
abstract world. 
• LCHOIIIHIIliJNNYMf'J • 

"The Puppet" is released in 
SONGS TO LEARN &SING America for the first time on this album after being released in England in 1981. The music is simplistic but the theme is typically Echo. The one new song on the album, "Bring on the Dancing Horses," is in Echo's gloomier spirit talking about oppressed people. Yet Echo has an optimistic outlook a.~ he sings: 
first I'm gonna make It then I'm gonna break it ttl/ Itfalls apart 
Whatever It is, Echo's going to conquer It in this musically upbeat song. 
1fyou like Echo and the Bun­nymen, you'll like this album. Ifyou don't know Echo's music, this is a perfect introduction. 


r 
r 
Orchestrated style haunts and hinders band
r 
r 
~ 
r 
New guitarist joins group, has old sound 
~ 
r 
GERRY SCIMECA 
features writer 

T 
here ace probably a lot of people crossing their fingers over the Geffen record label right now. With the release ofAsia's new album, Astra, the verdict will most surely come on whether rock audiences have tired ofIts over­blown, orchestrated style. 
Records Astra 
*** 
(out of four) 


Though Asia has the same style which has taken them to number one and sold over three million
, 
copies ofIts first two albums, the mystery of the band seems to be 
wearing off. This album is no better 

or worse musically than Asia's self-
f 
r 
titled debut which was the number one album for aU of 1982, but his­tory can show that when groups refuse to evolve musically, they write their own obituary. Just ask Men at Work. 
There ace a few rumblings of change, but they fail to inspire anything new. Mike Stone, the producer of mega-platinum albums forJourney, comes in to co­produce the album with keyboard player Geoff"the orchestra" Downes, but nothing different comes ofit. The band still sounds like Night Ranger meets the New York Philharmonic. 
Asia has a new guitarist; new­comer Mandy Meyer replaces Steve Howe, though you would never notice unless you happened to look at the back cover. The guitars still take a back seat to the string sec­tion, and Meyer's style is a carbon copy ofHowe's. Bass player, lead singer, head songwriter,John Wet­
ton also rejoins the band. 

Asia's problem is that it is hacd for people to relate to the band. Asia's songs' lyrics aren't humorous or insightful, they don't even offer consolation to the band's fans or show that the band members' problems ace the same as their fan's problems. 
The lyrics ace aloofand melodramatic, and only make the band seem more pompous. It's actually hacd to deduce anything about the band from its songs' lyrics. Afterall, this is a band who names its albums with words begin­ning and ending in "A" so a triangle ofwords can be formed on the 
cover. (The original title of this album was to be Arcadia, but it was taken first by a Duran spin-off.) 
Although Asia will gain no new fans from this album, it won't lose old fans either. 

,' ~ 
,r Emotional fire lacking in regrouped band 
r Additional members do not spark muslic
~ 
r r 
TOM BRANNIGAN 
features writer 

~ 
T 
he new Clash, after countless delays, finally has released Its post break-up album Cut the Crap. 1f the title was applied to this al­bum, a one side single would be the only thing left ofthe album. 
Records Cut the Crap 
* 
(out of four) 


The Clash was at one time a great band. The Clash's first albums, Give 'em Enough Rope, and London Calling, were among the best al­bums recorded In the late '70s. 
Unfortunately, the two creative forces in the band, MickJones and Joe Strummer, began moving in different directions as the '80s approached. The completely un­focused Sandinlsta, a three album set, and the top forty album Combat Rock were produced during this time. 
EventuallyJones was kicked out of the band because of"ideological differences." Jones was a capitalist, while Strummer and Simonon were Marxists. Strummer and Simonon 
claimed the name The Clash, hired three new players, and went on tour in 1984. 
The lyrics on Cut the Crap ace ridiculous, socio-political, let's-aU­have-a-revolution mumbo jumbo. 
The band even includes a special 
communique that tells us, 

RADICAL social change begins In the STREET!! So ifyour looking for someACflON... CUT THE CRAP and GET OUT THERE. 
lbe sad pact ofaU this is that the once fierce and emotional music of the Clash is now tame and predic­table. "This is England" is the only song that ever gets offthe ground, and it Is because ofthe emotion with which the band plays. 
lbe Clash Is not dead, but It has come a long way from its earlier work. "This is England" shows that the there is still some life in these guys, so don't count 'em out yet. For aU you old Clash fans, just stick with the single. 

~----~---------------­

I 
I 
! 
~i~~~_()__i_Il__t_______________Th_ur-sd_~_.n_ece_m-be-rl-2,_19-85--pa-ge-7 
l,
, 

I can still remember that rainy Saturday bathroom at a football game, find it necessary crawling with disloyal and dangerous radicals era when rationalism and humanism were at 
night when I, along with hundreds of other to insult older citizens with vulgar expletives who must be brought into line. The Heritage the forefront, now seem utterly alien to many timid freshmen, scurried into the Athletic and in order to express their contempt for senior Foundation, in a book publisi)ed in 1980, Americans. Irrational politics and religions are Convocation Center to begin our orientation citizen alumni, I begin to wonder what Notre stressed that "individual liberties are secon­back and doing a roaring trade. Once more, weekend. I thought to myself, here I am at Dame really is. I see trash strewn around dary to the requirement of national security blind obedience to perverted authority is the Notre Dame, one of the most prestigious in­campus by people who do not care ;~bout ot­and internal civil disorder." One does not easy option. stitutions in the nation. We were soon "told, hers. I hear about a freshman who has been have to be a flaming liberal for these words to "We are ND." It was not long until I found out forced to drink to the point ofhospitalization. have a sinister, ominous ring. In an essay lamenting this phenomenon, the said truth. We really are ND. It is a sobering thought, but maybe it is true: Academia, which ought to be the last bas­this time as it is manifested inside the Catholic 
Notre Dame is just the same as any other col­tion oftolerance, has shown in many instances Church, former member of the Irish Parlia­HarryJ. Sbaia lege around. an alarming readiness to take the money and ment, Dr. Conor Cruise O'Brien, has written: I always thought of Notre Dame as a place succomb. A number of hard core ideologues "Personally as I studied the writings ofjohn and a people a cut above the rest, a place have, for example, dug into Georgetown's In­Paul II, I found my faith revive: my faith, that is,guest column where the people were morally sharp and stitute for Strategic and International Studies. in the eighteenth-century Enlightenment: in alert and where people were not afraid to do Whenever the MacNeil/Lehrer news team Voltaire and Diderot, and liberators in the En­
"We are ND." Back then the thought what is right. I suppose you could say that trots out one of these huge, crude, hard-faced lightenment is hardly the faith this Pope wants seemed like a paradise. Today, it seems more things always look better from the outside in, men to discuss the latest international inci­to revive, but never mind. IfGod can move in like a tragedy. Where else in the United States but I am not prepared to settle for that. dent, my instinct is to hide the family silver mysterious ways, I suppose Enlightenment could one go and find a replica ofthe Grotto, a "We are ND." The students make Notre and to reach for my hat and coat. Their con­can too." gothic church, hall chapels, statues throug­Dame what it is; everything else is just a step­duct of political discourse has all the subtlety hout a campus, a Golden Dome that proudly ping stone. We should stop critizing apartheid of a land mine. 


raises our Blessed Mother high for all to see, a policy and authority, Father Hesburgh and ad­Worst of all, these new inquisitors have ab­Ann Pettifer is a Notre Dame alumna. mural ofChrist and a host ofreligious symbols ministrators, parietals and the alcohol policy, solutely no sense ofhumor. The best they can which tend to a student's spiritual needs? Ob­Bill Healy and the Student Senate, former manage, says Alexander Cockburn of"The Na­
viously, the world would have to be searched coach Gerry Faust and the football team. tion," is a leaden facetiousness -pale imita· 
quite thoroughly in order to find another Maybe just for a moment we should sit back tions of that high priest of unfunny sanctuary like Notre Dame's campus. The ad­and take a good look at ourselves. intolerance, William Buckley. ministration of Notre Dame has tried to help Let's think before we act. Another curious feature of outbreaks of 
The Viewpoint
these ideal characteristics to transcend into The campus, Hesburgh, the administration bigotry is the collective silence on naming the the lives of the students through the use o1f and their policies are what makes Notre source of the disease. Intolerance always has 
Department

such nominal policies as parietals and the al·· Dame, but "We are ND." The choice then is its origins on the right, never the left, in cobol policy. Despite the tremendous base ours: Will we continue to be an average American history. joe McCarthy was a bona­
1

from which we have to work with in order to school along with countless others or will we fide, Midwestern Republican, not some 
P.O. Box Q 
1

make Notre Dame an ideal place, some stu· return to a tradition ofbeing a light shining in foreign-born socialist. Incidentally, there is a dents do a stunning job of destroying what it the darkness, a beacon for all to see? What will t.errible irony in our present breast-beating 
.,~

Notre Dame, IN
could be. it be? about the Russians' refusal to permit jewish 
,

When I see security guards pelted with emigration. Earlier this century, during a 
,

snowballs, and hear of riot-sized fights that ·period of paranoid nationalism, we shipped 
46556 
1

break out in the senior section of the football Harry Sbaia is enrolled in tbe Freshman back to Russia boat-loads ofjews suspected of 
1

stadium or of freshmen who, while in the Year ofStudies at Notre Dame. socialist contamination. 
On behalf of freedom 
College students go to class to learn. They listen to their professors and take notes on the lectures. Accuracy in Academia sends students into the classroom to spy on their professors and report their findings to the Washington-based group. 
Ifthe group determines a professor has misled his stude~lts or has inaccurately presented material to his students, then the group pressures the professor to retract his statement or face being targeted by the group. 
Accuracy in Academia wants censorship in academia. 
The American educational system is based upon academic freedom -a freedom to gather facts from a variety of sources, formulate evidence into a hypothesis and develop a position. Accuracy in Academia's actions will only hinder academic freedom, free debate and the educational process. 
The group wants only the facts and opinions it agrees with presented to stu­dents. Much ofthe information Accuracy in Academia wants to censor relates to international, military and political matters; however, these areas ofthought are filled with conflicting estimates, uncertain statistics and unconfirmed evidence. Naturally, professors, as well as students, will develop their factual mindset and interpret this information differently. 
Accuracy in Academia is politically-oriented, and its real intent seems to be to force professors to use facts in agreement with its political philosophy, whether or not these facts are accurate. It challenges professors' facts; it is time someone challenges Accuracy in Academia. 
By challenging the facts professors are using, the group is attempting to damage the professors' credibilty and, thus, cast professors' positions on issues into doubt. 
Rather than make this feeble attempt at' censorship, Accuracy in Academia would do much better to present alternative information to students. Instead, it wants to eliminate opposing information. 
Regardless of one's political ideology, one must oppose any group which wants to suppress the free flow ofinformation. So when you are in class again, look to your right, but don't laugh. You may be a future target ofa similar group. Accuracy in the Dormroom could be next. 
-The Observer 

Students must decide 
to set Notre Dame apart 
Doonesbury 
51R! WAKE UP/ Y()(J'R£: MISSING Al/...7HEEX­
C/Tl3M£NT! ......__ 

ZONK£R'S PRES5 IA/IW?.. Cf)Vff3RENCE ON 
::5NORJ!~ HIS l1J7TlRf WHAT PRJZ£! EXCITE­MENT? I 
HE GCJT 50 MANYC4U5 FRt»1 7Hf;MWIA 7H/5 WE&I<ENI?, 
HE [)£CIPW 1D REAP A PRePARE[) STATE.-' 
MENTJJ8()fTH/5 ---co 
Pl.AN5. 

Paradox of intolerance 
lives today in America 
It must confuse foreigners, I have often 
In 1978, the Notre Dame Sophomorethought, that a country like the United States 
literary Festival invited Pete Seeger to which prizes liberty so dearly should lapse 
campus. His performance in Washington Hall periodically into intolerance. This confusion 
was an enchanting tour de force, a moment of is undoubtedly compounded by the fact that 
authentic liturgy as he conducted his those who raise their voices loudest in 
audience through American social and politi­defense of liberty are the first to succomb to 
cal history through song. We started the the contagion of intolerance. Gilbert and Sul­
evening with the ballad "No Irish Need livan would <:all this a most ingenious 
Apply," thus reminding us all that Irishness paradox. It is also a disturbing one. 
and Catholicism were once punished by the 
We can lay a good deal ofblame for the rise WASPs who ran the country. He talked briefly 
of intolerance over the past half-dozen yellts about his own problems with black-listing in 
on the Moral Majority and its know-nothing the painful and ugly fifties. What extremes of 
leader, jerry Falwell. We still, however, have political pathology did it take, one wondered, 
to explain why so many people who do not for this gentle, almost Franciscan, wandering 
subscribe to his vulgar, anti-intellectual, minstrel to threaten the bully boys in power? 
religious hucksterism fall prey to his brand of 
fear-mongering. The same sense of incredulity at the disor­dered nature of things during periods of in­Ann Pettifer tolerance, struck me as I listened to Abbie Hoffman when he visited campus. Hoffman's presentation was a pretty straightforwardguest column description of where U.S. politics are headed. Of course he dissents from imperial Pax 
Words like dogma and orthodoxy have re­Americana strategies and of course he is out­entered our political and theological lexicon. rageous. But behind the hustings populist When Health and Human Services Secretary there is a first class, stand up comic. Abbie is a Margaret Heckler was bumped from the very funny man. Now minstrels and com­cabinet, the word was that she had shown a edians do not subvert constitutions; but men lack ofconviction and commitment to Reagan vaunting their authority and trumpeting their dogma. The poor lady had failed the ideologi­patriotism frequently do. cal purity test in a government that has been captured in an unprecedented way by The United States is blessed with a constitu­ideologues. tion which protects pluralism -it was written 
New think-tanks like the Heritage Founda­by individuals who believed that we are tion, started with seed money from the capable of behaving tolerantly and with benighted beer baron, joseph Coors, have civility towards our neighbors, even those sprung up during the last decade. Sowing who hold very different views. Those suspicion and distrust, these organizations eigh~eenth-century architects ofthe constitu­operate on the basis that the United States is tion, products of the Enlightenment and an 
, ~ 
~ 

Garry Trudeau 
Quote of the day 
"Making your way in the world today takes everything you've got. Taking a break from all your worries sure would help a lot." 
T_~e from "Cheers" 

"..ANO,CF 
caJRSE,I'U B.E ~T/N65HJIAJ GIRlS. H 
\ 


"ie~P--O_i_n_t___________________________________________T_h_ur_s_da_r_._n_ec_e_m_b_e_r_I_2_,I_9_B_5___P_ag_e_s__ 
Segregation at Saint Mary's must come to an end 


A tree is known and judged by its fruit. The fruit of Saint Mary's College's tree is segrega­tion; less than ten students of color matric· ulate here. Segregation is the antithesis of Christianity, and yet an institution which 
E. David Pilgrim 
guest column 

1111!1~--~!111111!11••-!1!11•!11111111••..­
professes to beJesus' handiwork is segregated by race; inconsistencies abound in this Land of Nod. 
Throughout American society, citizens grant certain people the right to make deci­sions for them. As a republic, we elect officials whose: actions, whether it be voting on legisla­tion or negotiating a treaty with a foreign power, can significantly affect our lives. 
Brian McCarthy 
the reason's edge 

Many politicians pride themselves as being spokesmen for the people. To a degree, voicing the concerns of the voters is part of a politician's job. But how far does this respon· sibility go? The question each elected official must ask himself is, "Is it my job to vote the way the majority of my constituents want me to or should I vote the way I believe, ul­timately, to be the best?" 
r Often, there is not a conflict between the 
~ 
r 
The administration says, "We tried to in· tegrate in the past but it didn't work." The in­ference is that integration failed once therefore it will surely fail again. Ifhealth care personnel embraced this counterproductive mentality, physicians would carry leeches in .their pouches and dentists would usc: nylon strings to yank teeth. Social change is not episodic, it is progressive. As Christians, we must continuously seck the mark of our hig­
her calling: the establishment of the beloved community on earth. I have heard it said that minority students cannot afford to attend Saint Mary's College. 


Conflicts exist between politicians and the voters 
Single-sex dormitories restrict the ND education 
f 
A coeducational experience is an integral
,. 
part ofthe shapingofa well-rounded and truly r educated student. Learning from one another 
r 
through interaction is the means by which a full appreciation and respect for the opposite sex can be obtained. The present system of student residence at Notre Dame restricts this
r 
Interaction to the classroom and a limited number of social and service endeavors. The r administration, by this, adheres to a policy as old as the University itself and as inadequate and outdated as the first dwelling built by Fat· her Sorln. The students of Notre Dame are
~ being deprived of a true coeducational ex­perience in that they, in their attempt to inter­act with fellow students, are restricted to single-sex dormitories and, thus, a limited education. 
, r ~ 
Richard Preedom 
guest column 

Men and women may find it helpful to func· tion closer together in order that they might obtain a greater understanding and regard for each other. The present dormitory structufe at Notre Dame does not allow for much in the way of general, yet very Important, contact between the two sexes. Coeducational dor­mitories would, in effect, open up a wider channel towards forming genuine friendships 
office holder and the people who put him there. In the 1980s, however, certain issues may force a senator or a congressman into a difficult decision. Perhaps a senator from Iowa must vote on a farm bill that he knows will benefit Iowa farmers in the short run but eventually will lead to an unhealthy national farm policy. Or maybe the congressman from a small northern Ohio community is faced with legislation that stimulates economic growth in the majority of the nation but fails to remedy unemployment in his district. 
One way for the senator or congressman to resolve this dilemma is to conclude that he should vote in the manner that benefits his people. Then, if every other legislator does the same, the majority wins and democratic ideals prevail. On issues of regional sig­nificance congressmen and senators can best fuifill their duties by representing the needs of their constituents. 
Not all issues, however, favor one region or interest group over another. Legislation regarding a military build-up and tax reform are currently being debated on Capitol Hill. "lbese are national mattters and when con­sidering them, legislators should not identify themselves as mouthpieces for their respective states but, rather, as individuals who have the opportunity to inject their own judgments into national policy. 

As voters, we should not elect politicians with the idea that they will be yes men to our c:very wish. Candidates who let the public do their talking are not doing their job. The men and women who run for office should earn our votes because we believe them to be moral, ethical and intelligent people and we have confidence that in the long run they will make sound decisions on their own. 
The politicians should be constant, allow­ling the public to choose the candidate it ]prefers. The politician who see the public as a 
•wnstant while he puts on different faces to 11atisfy the voters is doing the people a dis­service. 
Unfortunately, this can too often be the case. Politicians routinely get elected because voters approve of their stance on a single issue. In the end, people's lives will be in­fluenced more by the legislator's stance on the numerous other issues he deals with in office than by the initial campaign issue. 
Wise politicians are nevertheless aware that voters must be appeased occasionally in order to gain re-election. If he wishes to be around long enough to have a lasting impact on na­tional policy, the congressman or senator will have to support his voters' wishes when it is feasible to do so. Certain sacrifices have to be made in the short run to allow for effective representation in the long run. 
Ultimately, politicians are responsible to themselves. It may be difficult for a legislator to justify to voters why he overlooked their beliefs, but it is yet more difficult to justify to himselfwhy he overlooked his own. 
Brian McCarthy is a senior economics major and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
between the two. Clearly, du Lac states the forming of genuine friendships as one of the reasons for limited parietal visitation hours. Yet, the administration restricts males and females from learning to function together in dormitories, thus increasing the difficulty in forming adult and sincere relationships bet· ween the two sexes. 
Parictals restrict basic social and educa­tional development while also showing a general lack of faith in the responsibility and integrity ofthe students. Instead oftreating its students as juveniles, one would assume that a university, which claims to educate the whole person, would provide interaction within the context of coeducational dormitory life for students mature enough to handle it. Espe­cially in a Catholic university such as Notre Dame, where students are assumed to have developed personal values and standards of conduct, one would also expect the ad­ministration to foster a more open-minded view concerning male/female residences. 
The basic argument for limited parietal visitation hours centers around the ad­ministration's use of the terms order and security as they pertain to student residences. At midnight on weekdays and at two in the morning on weekends, residences are termed secure. The dormitories would not be less secure if, instead of being only single-sex residences, they included both sexes. 
Likewise, the order the University employs Most of our students receive financial assis­tance and the average aid package exceeds 116000. I know man'f sisters who could "afford" a Saint Mary's education with this !level of assistance. The profits reaped from our unholy alliance with South African sin merchants c:ould be used to finance the education olf American Cape Coloureds and American Bantus. Our hearts and purses must be commited to social change. In a capitalist society, oniy autopsies are free. 

Those who claim that we must remain segregated because our students are racists should be spanked, publicly, for a week. May I, please, see the research which confirms that our students will oppose integration. Sure, there are undoubtedly some narrow-minded s.tudents here, but most students are malleable. 1be safe money is that the ad­ministration, faculty and selected alumnae are projecting their racist weltanschauungs unto the students.. Let every soul examine itself. 
"Minorities won't be comfortable here," cries the comfortable member of our loving family. Are minorities comfortable at Boston College, DePaul, Loyola or Saint Francis? Are they comfortable anywhere? The administra­l:ion is mor•: concerned about its comfort · large contributions from appeased alumnae assures this !itate ofaffitirs · than the comfort of lits student'S. Bigotry wins: we make minorities uncomfortable, they leave, we do not recuit other minorities because we are certain that they will be uncomfortable. It is our Christian responsibility to welcome all students. God is not a respec:tor ofpersons. 
I am uncomfortable writing this essay, not 
because I lack the courage of my convictions 
in each hall would not be greatly affected by a 
coeducational dormitory structure such as al­
:ternating male/female floors. Another argu­
ment for single-sex residences concerns the :aspect ofpriivacy. Many students undoubtedly prefer the privacy that the present system of :residence offers. But for the students desiring :to cxperien•c:e a closer intermingling with the opposite se:x:, the University should offer an :lltcrnative to single-sex dormitories. 
Many traditions are meant to be kept alive. Nowhere is :this more evident than in the great 
but because the lessons I teach should have been learned long ago. The ability ofblacks to master a collegiate education, for example, is still being questioned. Did the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community sleep through the 1960s? High ranking administrators here are fond ofclaiming that black students would all flunk out. lbis is as dose as you will get to hearing a blatantly racist statement in this era ofsophisticated racism.l, a black scholar, offer my condolences to the families of these humans. 
Social change is difficult but our Christian charge is to avoid the demonic atrocities propogated by the secular society. Racial segregation is a sin, therefore I have sought to appeal to the moral convictions of readers. I am not optimistic. There is ample evidence that the Saint Mary's administration and faculty are content to remain in a lily-white institution. At the risk of a jeremiad, the con­servatives loathe the idea of bringing in sizeable numbers ofracial minorities, whereas the local liberals are busy soothing their con­sciences by engaging in anti-South Africa rhetoric · it takes little courage to promote social justice halfway around the world. Chris· tian charity begins at home. 
I am tired, ad nauseum, oflies, fairy tales and excuses. The administration has two choices: take immediate action to rectiJY this situation or admit publicly that we are commited to maintaining an elitist college for rich white women. Filibustering is no longer one ofyour choices. I'll be in Madeleva 130 if you need me. 
E. David Pilgrim is an assistant professor ofsociology atSaint Mary's. 
traditions upheld by the University of Notre Dame. Once a portion ofa long standing tradi­tion is changed, though, following aspects of this alteration should be open to change also. By this, the advent of females on the Notre Dame campus should permit optional interac­tion between the genders through coeduca­tional residences. 
Richard Preedam is enrolled in tbe Freshman Year ofStudies atNotre Dame. 

11~ I~t,OJ\ .....THE: ~a: 19BS1~11 WAS 23! ...... WE. WERE~ IJOSfAGE. ~I II 


~Viewe_o_i_n__t________
Th_u_rs-day_,D-e-cem_b-er-12_,1_9s_s.....pa-ge-9 
i\pathy towards minority problems should cease 
"What is it like to be white?" 
J: looked at the black, 1 7 year-old high school student with a blank look in my eye, not understanding his concern, and ques­tioned him. "What do you mean what is it like to be white?" He answered, "Well, you know it'!i easier for you go through life white than it is for me to go through life black." I had no clue how to answer his question, and he knew this. Somehow, he knew I had never thought of the issue black or white or yellow, red, brown or olive for that matter. 
Mary Flynn 

guest column 
111111111

-[~t.is•s•ix_m_o•n~th·s~l•a•te•r•a•n•d•n•o•wllllllllll•d~o th•i•nk-oll.f 
the~ issue black and white. Why do I bother myself, you Domers and SMCs might ask. Well let me tell you. I am a social work major and a few of my requirements ace to take and pass sociology classes. In these classes,one learns why Puerto Ricans ace having economic dif­ficulties in New York, why at a college in North Carolina (a college with more black students than Saint Mary's) blacks and whites cannot walk on the same sidewalks, why a majmity of Filipinos in this country ace daughters and sons ofprofessionals only, why Japanese-Americans ace fighting for reim­bursement for land stolen from them in America during World Wac II, why people think and do the things they do and many ot­
her interesting and undroppable subjects. 
The fact I never pondered on the subject of minorities prior to now is because I was shel­tered and did not know that all of this palaver was going on. Let us get real people. That 1 7 year-old student was not just jivin' when he asked me what it is like to be white. He really wanted to know. Ufe is easier for me because I am white. This is sickening. I had heard of people wishing that they would have been born male. That could be Freudian or it could be the opportunities that men have that women. are now beginning to fight for. But that is an entirely different issue. The high school student I spoke with said that he wished that he could have been born white. He mentioned several reasons why when I 
asked him. I will not write them here. 
For 20 and a halfyears, I had skated through life oblivious to the real world and its problems. Now I live on a generic, homogeneous college campus that I think is scared to open its doors to minority groups and minority problems. (Unless of course, if the problems are occuring in South Africa or somewhere else halfway around the world, then it is OKfor us to stick our noses in a little bit) Let us first try and help our own country and for that matter our own campus. In a 45 minute period I asked eight di1ferent students what they thought of the minority problems on our campus and they answered with relative questions. For instance: "What minority problem?" 
What am I supposed to think or should I get off my soap box and go back to bed? Are these people·apathetic to the minority problems of our campus and.our society or are they just uneducated and sheltered like I was for such a long time? Apathy is no excuse and neither is the latter. If people are so apathetic about minority problems, why do so many people spend so much time being prejudiced.? 
Mary Flynn is a junior social work major atSaintMary's. 

Pelle Lindbergh's death can be a turning point 
Tbe truly sad pan of the Pelle Undbergh story is that it is a common one. Lindbergh, for the unitnformed, was a 26 year old goalie for the Philadelphia Flyers, who died several weeks ago from a drunk driving accident. One of the top goalies in the NHL, he neared the team record for wins in carrying the Flyers to th<: Stanley Cup Finals. Philadelphia, a notoriously tough sports town, adopted this ymmg man from Sweden as its own, and the Spo~ctrum rocked with chants of"Pelle, Pelle" during games. Now it is all gone. Within a mat­ter of seconds, Pelle Undbergh went from a m~m with thousands ofdollars and a city in his pocket to just another traffic fatality. 
Kevin Mundy 
heads in the sand 

Sympathy is in short supply here. I feel for 
-~~----~----~--~~~ 
the: family and friends, for the loss of a loved one is immeasurable. but Pelle Lindbergh 
truly chose his own fate. It is a shame that Pelle's mistake cost him his life, but that is an obvious potential consequence of driving while intoxicated. The tragedy isn't the family's loss, or that a man was struck down in the prime oflife, or learning that even heroes are mortal, but that this tragedy will occur again, and again and again. Undbergh's story captures our attention because he was bril­liant at stopping pucks, but in reality the same story occurs everyday with only family and friends knowing and grieving. 
When will we learn? A car is a dangerous 
instrument when operated by.a sober person; 
it is the mechanical coming of death when 
operated by one who is intoxicated. In Lindbergh's case a vindictive justice was served, for the irresponsible partywas the vic­tim, but far too often this is not the case, and ·the irresponsible party suffers nothing but a headache while an innocent bystander is maimed or killed. And then a mourning family must cope with the fact that the offender may 
serve five years on an involuntary manslaughter charge. Injustice compounded upon injustice, yet society only notices when the victim is a star. 
It doesn't have to be this way. A life lost is a life lost no matter what the cause, so it stands to reason that drunk driving that claims a life should be treated as murder. This means that drunk driving which causes accidents should carry a sti1fer penalty, perhaps under a "manslaughter due to intoxication" charge ac­companied by a stiJier sentence than normal involuntary manslaughter. Along the same lines, if abortion is murder (according to Church doctrine) then so is drunk driving, so where is the Catholic Church on this issue? The Church's power is immense, and their lobbying politicians and influencing con­gregations could make a di1ference. Making a di1ference saves lives. 
Even more important than changing laws is changingattitudes. The Americanpublic must realize that it is simply not right to drive after drinking. "I've only had a few'' is no excuse. "A few" drinks kill thousands every year. The mentality that "a few'' drinks are acceptable must be altered. People must begin to tell ot­hers that they are not able to drive, risking bruised egos and trampled vanity to save human lives. Embarassment is temporary, death is permanent. Agrass roots campaign to make drunk driving the foolish action that it is can do much more thatl a legislative change, for the impact is immediate and lasting. 
The Lindbergh story obviously has a sad en­din& but it can contain a positive side. If the American public that has ignored slaughter on the highway for years will take notice now that a hero has been claimed, Lindbergh's death will mark the past, when a passive American public allowed such massacres. Let's work to make this happen, and make Pelle Lindbergh a turning point instead of an additional number. 
Kevin Mundy is enrolled in the Freshman Year ofStudies atNotre Dame. 

[ ________
~g~eting~.fi~~~acc~ur~~~p~agre~~Q~asse~t:an~B_O_X_.~Q~----~------~]
Pirofessor grasped facts b1etter than first realized 
DearEditor: 
[n response to the Dec. 10 letter by three fellow "Nuclear Dilemma" students, I would like to present a few facts and opinions con­cerning Dr. Muller's lecture. 
On the issue ofquestionable benefits ofhal­ting U.S. nuclear weapons testing, you cannot stll.te unequivocally that a pause in testing will have "no effect upon continued future proliferation." A halt to testing is an all­imlportant first step in slowing down the arms ra·ce. It is true that the Soviet's halt on testing was a calculated move to achieve some un­d<:fined end, but you cannot rationalize such a conciliatory gesture down to its barest strategic Implications. · 
In questioning Muller's use of the term 
"arms race" to describe the present c;eality, 
you point out that the total destructive 
megatonnage of the United States almost 
h~Llved between 1962 and 1982. You fail to 
a< knowledge how the increase in techttOlogy 
h~IS allowed the United States to substantially 
improve the accuracy and sophistication ofits 
weapons and launchers. In counterforce tar-
destructive power. This technological push is indeed a major factor in the continuing race to 
~~~:::~~als~nd qualitatively improve 
In addition, you point out Muller's failure to 
realize that the United States devotes "only" 
1 0 percent of its defense budget to nuclear 
weapons. I wonder if you underestimate his 
grasp ofthe facts. True, he was not speaking as 
an expert on nuclear weapons, but as a 
physician concerned with the immediate and 
possible future effects of the arms race. I 
believe the point is that 10 percent of a 1305 
billion defense budget is a fantastic amount of 
money to spend on nuclear weapons and to 
divert from human needs. 
You also state that Muller "finds it quite Cas­
hionable to emotionally attack U.S. nuclear policy." You seem to equate non-strategic, humanitarian interests with emotionalism. Emotion cannot be surgically excised from criticism ofany policy that deals with issuesof life and death. As you pointed out, it is indeed .important to refrain from distorting the argu­ment with emotion, but it is equally important to present both sides ofthe argument in order 
to critically evaluate the nuclear issue. 
MargaretKey Farley Hall 

r~D family's generosity makes students proud 
DearEditor: 

The biggest disaster ever to hit Colombia occurred three weeks ago, killing thousands and leaving more homeless. Those of us for­tunate to attend Notre Dame felt we had a responsibility to help, in some way, the less fortunate of Colombia. We went to Campus Ministry and presented Father Leveille with our desire to help and asked him to aid us in any possible way. Leveille was kind enough to set aside a Sunday's contribution toward our proje<:t. This money that the Notre Dame communitty was good enough to donate will go to purchase badly needed medical supplies. Your generosity was outstanding and is deeply appreciated by us and the home­less of Colombia. We are proud to say that we go to Notre Dame. The Notre Dame com­munity's response and Leveille'sdedication to our cause makes us especially proud and deeply grateful. On behalf of thousands, muchos gracias. 
Ramon de Ia Torre Bernardo Noreno Notre Damegraduate students 
Faust taught a class
h r· 
over t e past IVe years 
DearEditor: 
The University of Notre Dame is a fine educational institution. Our administrators and faculty are quite distinguished and have developed a respected undergraduate program. There ace, however, some lessons being taught on this campus which are not taught in the classroom and which are cer­tainly as valuable as the text book. 
Take a look, a close look, at our head foot­ball coach Gerry Faust. This man has been teaching an intensive course for five years. It has nothing to do with engineering, business or physics; but, rather with how to be a decent, honest, courageous, loving human being. I need not go through the details ofthe course, since we all have good notes already. I suggest, however, that we study these notes, because most of us will have our 26 defeats and we will be baed-pressed to shine as Faust truly has. Thanks, for a lesson well taught. 
Stephen Brennan Grace Hall 

•!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton 
Business Msnsger.. . ........... David Stephenllch 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
M811af1ing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan 
Controller ............................. Wilham J. Htghducheck News Editor ..... ....................................... Frank Upo 
Advertising Msnsger... ... . .. ....... Jim Hagan 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Systems Msnsger.......... .. ... Mark B. Johnson 
Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol1cies of the 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Production Msnsger........ ... John A. Mennell administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­
Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb Sitlle. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
Accent Editor ................... -......................Mary Healy taries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy 
available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Photograph'( Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches campus. through letters, is encouraged. 
Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Wolf Founded November 3, 1966 


, 
The Observer Thursday, December 12, 1985 -page 10 
Sports Briefs 
The ND wrestling team came away with two vic­tories in a triangular meet yesterday. The Irish demolished Valparaiso, 58-0, in addition to beating Drake, 27-14. Notre Dame, now 2-0 this season, previously had been 0-10 against Drake. More deWls will appear in tomorrow's paper.-Tbe Observer 
The SMC swim team will host North Central College in a meet too.lght at 7 in the Rockne Memorial Pool. -Tbe Observer 
The ND/SMC ski team will hold a meeting for all members who will be taking part In next month's tryouts. The meeting will be held too.lght at 7 in the LaFortune little Theater. Members should bring checkbooks and insurance forms. For more information call Kathy Skendzel at 283-4292. · Tbe Observer 
Classifieds 
Men's crew 1members should report for practice today at 5 p.m. at all concourses. Novice rowers are welcome. For more information call Chris Nye at 236-4400.-Tbe Observer 
The ND Rowing Club requests that all members turn in their ergothon pledge money too.lght from 6:30 -8 at LaFortune Student Center. For more information call Mike Songer at 283-4108. · Tbe Observj~ 
The ND fencing team needs someone mechani­cally inclined who wants the opportunity to earn a monogram and be a part of the fencing program. A knowledge of fencing is not necessary. Those interested should call Coach Mike DiCicco at 239· 5585. · Tbe Observer 
Muskegon wins overKomets in IHL hockey 
FORT WAYNE, Ind. -Dave Mic­hayluk scored two goals, including the game winner during a shoot-off, to lead Muskegon to a 4-3 victory over Fort Wayne in International Hockey League action yesterday night. 
Muskegon's Jiri Poner opened the scoring at 5:38 of the first period, followed by teammate Don Ed­wardson's goal at 8:56. 
The Komets answered Mus­kegon's 2-0 first-period lead with goals at 17:46 of the second period and 11:37 of the third by David An­derson and Lawrence Duke, respectively. 
The 0/Jsen•er :-.otr" Damt· otlilT. lot·atnl on tht· thord floor of l..i~ortunt· Studt·nt Ct·nter. Kt'"P'' cla"ifkd adn·rt"in~<t from') am until -1 p m ..\londa\ throu~<th hoda\ The I1/Jset'!'er Saint \Ian·, offin·. lotdtt·d on tht· thord floor of llal<\1<\ar Colle~<tt' <t·ntn. atTt·pt' cla"ifinh lrom 12 ~0 p m until .~ p m. \lon da\ though ~roda\ lkadlont· lor nt·xt da\ Lla"olkJ, " .~ p m .-\11 cla"'fi"d' mu-. h" pr"paoJ. "nhn on pt·"on or h' mao! <.har~<tt'" I 0 n·nt' pt·r fiH·t·h,uat· It'" t·r da\' 
Don't conform' Cteele change' ~ MICHELLE. MICHELLE. WHAT THE You MIS god, you. Whether you decide on HELL? (I wanted to make th11 public) You
NOTICES 
Arthur A. or aome podunk compeny m . ~ WIH be m1aaed enormouely by your San Antonio? ... remember lh•t wh•tever roommate, piiiSONII aecretery end cleen­it ia, it'a out there. Have you_, it? II I'm •ng P8f*l'l. Europe Will never know whet not in clu8 today, 1'1 atil be there in apirit hit it. A word of advice: make aure your TYPftiiQ (or tape recorder). Enjoy the concert. en­awMter i11n't on beck-dl Wid don't talk 277-40'1 joy the -end, •nd oee you around. 
'1n your sleep wound atrangcn. Juetthink, ""EE PICKUP I DeLJVEJIY Take cere. Sue "lt'a llbout time you in­1f you atayed. we could play euchre every 
' j 
11


troduced yourself after !lining nell to me 0 n1ght end continue to educate the entire half • aemeater" Dunbar Western World. However, I trUat that you and Zulu wiR Ml up • utelite bue end never m•u • but in lhe triiCklng of oom·~ era. You win have to keep me logged. DRIVING EAST FOII ..EAK? 'l.i Scottie. Meanwhile, however. I WIR con­
0

EllPIRT TYPIMG MRVICE. CALL I need • ride to~ tinue to educate my pupile end wil keep ....COKEJI2»-7001. leaving Saturday, Dec. 2t an eye out for truenta, 11 you IJO -re.
~ 

Cal Mary •t 2t69 . And I know how you do! 426 won't be the RIDERS NEEDED to Connecticut (N­~ um&-·who Will buy the tenw repellent C.nun WM) on Thurs. Dec. 18 leaving toothpute? In ci<Je~ng. ithonk 11 11 only fit­wound 4:00. Cell carey 2n-!i620. 9
ling that the m.,.hmllllowa, wh1ct1 have ..................... THE COW IS OF THE BOVINE ILK. ONE endured the ent1re Hmester. be WuitrMiyYOU iMWetTHAT ~·· 
END IS MOO. THE OTHER, MILK.· 00· preaerved (etleut untol Sen•or Week) u THATnlght,WidlfiJO.. WHY..,.,'tyou DEN NASH a monument to you. SME withe yyyTOWNIEyyy? NO MOfiE CRABS 
' j 

CHAMPAGNE?? What will a.wine do? MIRIAM. ARE YOU STILL SORE? 
9 

SANDY IIOTHAII WANTED RIDE TO CHICAGO AFTER ~ 
P-Smile' It 111n't nghl for • Ieee u cute u your8 not to. Good iuct< tomorr.,.... -and one other lhlng-·HAPPYFUNKSHUNART FUNKSHUNART FINALS ON FRIDAY DEC. 20. 1965LET 
FUNKSHUNART FUNKSHUNAAT A NICE GIRL GO HOME FOR ~ BIRTHDAY'
CHRISTMAS. CALL FRAN 2687 GrMt Chn-Gif1a 
FUNKSHUNAAT 
~ 

HEY PHIL! Remember lUI year at IIlii (J t•me? Merry Chrillmu! Love, ~ (the"men") 
QUAD UNITY: The Cruel Oiclator. 

OrigiMI Art T -ehlr1a Wid Printa by I'LL HAVE A BLUE CHRISTMAS 
3­

PIIUI Mc1Mn 28•5tl8 WITHOUT 2 TIXS TO 8 O'CLOCK ii!!!CHICAGO CLUB!!!!!! 
FUNKSHUNART FUNKSHUNART GlEE CLUB SHOW !!!!!CHICAGO CLUB II!II!
FUNKSHUNART FUNK8HUNART CALL JOE 1927 Orgenizetionel Meeting FUNK8HUNART ~ 6:15· LAFortune Utile n-ter 
' 

BE THERE! 
To The lovely Young lady At IIA8CALa ~ 
...,.._......... 
Mon. Nile. How Aboul Th•t R.S.V.P.

to-,_. • 17-. PI In my ,_ 9 (\
Merry Chriatmu. ,_110-7.-..a:llptn 2 _. I ...,_ • 
....... c.ll.,... 4Pfll-DH1'4a 0 IIIARGY
Claire Wetah • Don't be • GRINCH • your KK ia watching you, even etthe wee hours 

9The OIINtv• ~up~. of the nighl! 
(\ but I _.lei not deny you your,.._... lor your lllnhday ATTENTION
0 

MILLER •EER PROMOTIONAL NIGHT q YMterdlty -ilfWVy Pletl'e 2181
LOST/FOUND I ~ •Pl
lllnhclay. Stop by h• room (241 MORE FUN THAN YOU CAN SHAKE A at LEE'S fll..TONIGHT' ~ llftcl give h• • lllnhclay kiM. H-er.
0 

.EWAJIE. She I• the moet ....-ve LOST: IF YOU WERE AT AlUMNI'S STICK AT. 
Q player ol the .p ICICIIW equed. You
Mullic. dancing. end lun. FORMAl NOV 23. YOU MAY HAVE MY Oueetiona? Gal Race ut272-2478. ~ muet llfi"'en lnto•icetl"' -....to COATI! MY FRIEND PICKED UP A Thank you for your aupport. 'I C81m her down, prelerllllly • ....,..nta. 
WOMEN'S LONG 8EIOE WOOl COAT ~ Hope you have • good one tonltlht, WHICH LOOKS A LOT LIKE MINE. IF 0 .....,,end a good time in London. 
YOU HAVE A SIMILAR COAT WITH THANKS STS. JUDE &THERESE 
............................................................... 
BROWM TRIM AND BAOWN BUTTONS PLEASE CAll 284-5543 OR 552e. I WANTED: Ride lo Chicago wea after OAR HOUSE: COLO BEER & LIQUOR HAVEYOUASI finale aometlme Friday, Dec. 20. Let • ~ CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U S 31 N.. I 
nice gori go home tor Chriatmu. Calf Fran BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 

j

LOST: NOTRE DAME CLASS AINO ON X2687. PATH BETWEEN HURlEY AND ART 
j

BUILOINO IN THE SNOW CAll SCOTT THANK YOU, ST. JUDE! IT IS POSSIBLE TO FALLIN LOVE IN A Xo4075 REWARD OFFERED MONTH. OR LESS· BUT IT TAKES A I wouldn·r touch you With a ... tn•rty-n<ne­
LOT LONGER TO FAll OUT OF LOVE. LOST: HELP! I Ioiii my giMMe n now I •nd-•·hell foot pole. .,.,., -· They have gold. rnellll trarnee ' 
(\ To GAilY VOCE end the reat of the 0 famoua lligneturea. Thenkl lor making
Wid llll;ltly tinted -· The giMMe Congtatu/«~onl, M-ne end Tim' 
-elna !JOlt, dllrl< btown -·ff you Nnd I bied to think ol aomething cute to uy, Q Mert<'a Chriatmu extno apecoel. My brot' 
' 
O

them. pleMe <*I Joe at 3404. ~dS. but I think "Merten• end Tim" uya it el. hor wiN Jove the buketllel. Beetwieh.. .....................
' 

· Roeea we red, violeta ere blue, Sibe we LOST MISSING LOST MISSING LOST 3 ehouiddothia,butwelikeyou.l52 Red F-mleling from South Dining Dot. congreta on your job offer. Yup­' ............................................................... . ~ piedom here you come. 0 Hey Kel. juat wanted to wieh you • Merry 
q X-MU & e Happy N-Y-. ·The guy FOUND FOUND FOUND FOUND 
TO: GODDESS WOMAN NUMBER TWO FOUND FOUND FOUND 00t.0 LADIES 
FROM: GODDESS WOMAN NUMBER 

~ :::7-z~~::::..d··~~..w;;
QUARTZ WATCH BETWEEN WALSH ONE SURPRISEII ALWAYS TOLD YOU AND HAYES.HEAL.Y CAll DAN AT NOT TO TELL EVERYONE HOW YOU ~. BRUNO "The Flying Dutchmen" BREN­2555 FART ON YOUR BROTHER'S FACE! <1 NINKMEIJER end MIKE "The Golden NOW YOU SEE WHAT HAPPENS? 
3 Gopher" ZASKE 

WOULD THE YQUNG MAN WHO li ................................................................ 
IIOAAOWEO THE SPANISH NEW JEMEY CHRISTIIAS •us­o. Who wu that dark haired girt in the BROCHURES FROM THE MODERN THERE IS STILL ROOM. CALL DIEUIE q bookltore at 3:30 in the Cllrd uction? LAHOUAOES OFFICE BEFORE AT 284-14111 FOil INFO 011 TO 0 let'a meettonite at LAFortune at I 1 The THANI<BGIVING PLEASE RETURN ltESEIIVE A SPOT 9guy with the interhell je ct<et. THEM IMMEDIATELY. WE NEED 
j ...................... 

M.A.K THEMI Jemie-I love being loved by yc:>W J ONCE IN A LIFETIME LOST: A PAIR OF PEARl STUD EAA­MAYBETHELASTTIME
j 

RINOS, ONE IIAOI<EN. ENCASED IN A HAPPY 20TH ..lfTHDAY TO WOMEN'S (\ JUST THE RIGHT TIME TO FAll IN SMAU. PlASTIC JEWELRY IIAG. THEY aASKI!'BALL SUPEJISTAJI SANOIIA LOVE WERE A OAAOUATION OiFT, AND L . .OTHAIII WITH LOVE AND AOOIIA­~ ONCE IN A LIFETIME HAVE MUCH SENTIMENTAL VALUEIIF TlON FROM YOUR X1FANILOVE YA FOR SUCH A LONG TIME 
0 

FOUND, PLEASE CAll BETH AT SANDY LEE. Q I'VE BEEN WAITING FOR YOU X38el HAPPY ANNIVERSARY• 
(J LADIH, DON'T 1111.. OUT ON YOUR (\ I LOVE YOU, LOSTLOSTLOSTLOSTLOSTLOST CHANCE TO WISH JOE ZAHN A VERY TON AMOUR 
0 

LOST LOST LOST LOSTLOBTLOBT HAPPY ..RTHDAY. CALL 1540 011 
~ 

LOST REO FOLDER MISSING FROM STOP aY 421 CAVANAUGH AND SOUTH DININO HALL AROUND NOV IIIAKE HIS DAY HELP! NEED RIDE TO MINNEAPOLIS
j

22. I WANT ITI IF FOUND, PLEASE, q OVER CHRISTMAS. WILL SHARE EX, PlEABE CAll X38et. JOE ZAHN MY N.Y. IDOL. BABE 0 PENSES CAll lEE ANN 284·5520. 
ll ................................................................ 


The Observer Thursday, December 12, 1985 -page 11 
1Phillies send Denny to Cincinnati =1t interesting baseball meetings 
A8110Clated Prell8 
SAN DIEGO · The Philadelphia Phillies traded Cy Young winner John Denny to Cincinnati, while the Kirk Gibson free-agent chase ap· roeared to have hit a "stone wall" at baseball's annual winter meetings }esterday. 
Major league owners, meanwhile, beld the first joint meeting of their convention with two difficult, potentially controversial issues · ex· pansion and drugs · on the agenda. Commissioner Peter Ueberroth of· fered no guarantees on expansion, but he vowed baseball would do something about drugs. 
The Phlllies traded the 33-year· old Denny, who won the National League Cy Young award in 1983, and minor league pitcher Jeff Gray ti)r pitcher Tom Hume and out· fielder Gary Redus, who was un· happy in a reserve role at Cincinnati. 
While the Reds were able to move a discontented player, Gibson's agent was becoming discontented himseLf by what he saw as a con· :;piracy among owners to "stonewall" free-agent negotiations. 
"There is a very, very unified ef· fort to close off negotiations, specifi· cally with Kirk," said Gibson's agent, Doug Baldwin. Baldwin said he had been unable to arrange meetings with any team here other than the Gibson's old team, the Detroit Tigers. 
Gibson, the top name among this year's free agents, batted .287 with 29 homers, 97 RBI and 30 stolen bases in 1985. 
The Tigers may not negotiate with Gibson after Jan. 8, and Baldwin said he hoped some other teams would show interest after that deadline. 
"We all know what's going on," Baldwin said. "'The owners have ob· viously unilaterally changed the rules without going back to the negotiating table. We just have to be patient." 
Ueberroth said both expansion and drugs were discussed at a day· long session of American and Na· tionalleague owners. 
On drugs, he said, "We have learned that the players association is formulating its own drugprogram. We are encouraged by that." 
Ueberroth had devoted much of his "state of the sport" speech the day before to drug abuse. 
Beginning in January, Ueberroth will meet with the 26 players who either testified or were implicated in the Pitsburgh drug trial of Curtis Strong last summer. He was asked what level of discipline he might impose on the players. 
"I won't know until I meet with 
each individual," Ueberroth said. "It 
would be unfair to prejudge." 
Owners also listened to a report from the Long Range Planning Com· mittee on expansion. Some sources indicated that the 12 cities which applied for expansion last month could be ranked by the committee, but Ueberroth said no such rankings were made. 
On the rest of the trading front, the Texas Rangers reportedly were close to a deal that would send out· fielder Gary Ward to Kansas City for left-handed pitcher Bud Black, 8os· ton was still interested in striking a deal with the Chicago White Sox for Tom Seaver, and the New York Yankees reportedly were working on a deal that would send designated hitter Don Baylor to the White Sox for pitcher Britt Burns. 



APPboCo 

Tom Laidlaw (2) of tbe New York Rangers leans on Terry Rus· kowski ofthe Pittsburgh Penguins in action earlier this season. Tbe Rangers helped their cause by defeating tbe Newjersey Devils last night by a score of4-2. 
•••••••JNEW YORK BUS...¥ ••••• 
The rt. Y. Club will be holding•lgn-up• for THE CHRISTMAS BREAK BUS 
........................ 
Thursday, December 12 $85 to Port Authority 2nd Floor LaFortune $90 to White Plains 
QUESTIONS: Call Bobby (1 024) BRING YOUR CHECKBOOK 


Santa Claus is coming to town 
(Do him a favor aad give hU. a taal) 

~~~TM~H~
or'~ sun tonnrg solen 
J.M.S. PLAZA  
latro Pkg. Spec.  4609 Grape Road  
$21.95  Mishawaka  
(GUtCertlflcateAvaUable)  277-7026  

~~~~~~~~ 
-------------·--·­
The Observer Thursday, December 12, 1985-page 12 
New Jersey State Commission 

Erasmus Books 
1027 E. Wayne 
Tues · Sun, noon· 6

moves to ban all boxing in state 

TRENTON, NJ. · Mew Jersey's State Commission of Investigation called for a ban on boxing yesterday, saying the sport has no social or economic benefits and leaves its par· ticipants as "physical or mental derelicts." 
In a 137-page report that cited an American Medical Association's recommendation that boxing be abolished, the panel said the sport is "legal savagery" over which or­ganized crime in New Jersey has undue Influence. 
No state bans the sport, though some do not have professional fights. 
The AMA launched its anti-boxing campaign after the 1982 death of South Korean boxer Duk-Koo Kim following a lightweight title fight in Las Vegas, Nev., and has said that 87 percent of all boxers have evidence ofchronic brain damage. 
"Perhaps the single most pivotal factor In the commission's deter­

mlnation that boxing should bt: 
abolished is its investigative conclu· 
sion that not even the sturdiest of 
statuatory controls will reduce the 
brutality of the sport to any sig· 
nificant degree," said the SCI's 
"Organized Crime in Boxing·· 
report. 
The panel recommended the New 
Jersey Legislature outlaw the sport, 
saying it "believes that no truly 
viable social or economic benefits 
can be derived from such legal 
savagery." 
The SCI also proposed that federal controls be established for the in­dustry. 
Earlier this year, the SCI told a federal commission investigating the boxing industry that "ifthe same mob presence we have found in boxing existed in professional baseball or football it would con· stitute a massive public scandal." 
But the SCI's recommendations are unrealistic, said one state law­maker. 
"The sport has been around for 
Football historians correct myths that abound around pro football 
PITTSBURGH · They are football's dedicated detectives, historians who enjoy the sport not only on television, but on microfilm monitors that transform them to the halcyon days of professional foot­ball. 
There are 150 members of the loosely knit Professional Football Researchers Association scattered across the country.. Most are mere spectators. Some, including former all-pro guard Joe Kopcha of the Chicago Bears, are former players. 
All are fans.  
Bob  Carroll,  for  instance,  is  a  
Pittsburgh-area  researcher  and  il­ 
lustrator  with  an  encyclopedic  

knowledge of football's forgotten heroes. Udo Starelli, a San Francisco plasterer, has missed only one 49ers game In 4 3 years -and has every game program to prove it. 

The amateur researchers spe· cialize in debunking myths and mys·· teries of the sport's sometimes nomadic and often-misunderstood past. 
"It's amazing how much of the myth and lure associated with pro football don't stand up under research," said Carroll, 49, the editor of "The Coffin Corner," the PFRA's semi-monthly newsletter. "Much of what has been written even in encyclopedias isn't always that accurate." 
For example, it has long been ac· cepted that the National Football League was formed Sept. 17, 1920 as the legendary George Halas and ot· her founding fathers squatted on Hupmobile running boards in a Can­ton, Ohio, auto dealership. An il­lustration of the historic meeting hangs in a prominent place in the Pro Football Hall ofFame in Canton. 
But, Carroll said, Canton 
New records almost set by Pacers with 64-point effort Tuesday night 
NEW YORK · "It was an offensive 
fiasco,"  Indiana  center  Steve  
Stlpanovich said, and  who  could  
argue?  

The Indiana Pacers on Tuesday night scored the fewest points for a National Basketball Association team since 1972 In losing to the New York Knicks 82-64. Indiana converted only 19 of Its 7 4 shots in the game, or 25.7 percent, en route to posting its lowest score ever, in· cludlng the Pacers' years in the American Basketball Association. 
"This game ranks up there as one of the worst I've ever seen," Indiana Coach George Irvine said. "The Knicks played excellent defense, but they played hard, not well. When guys can't dribble the ball, or catch it, it's obvious they're not ready to play." 

The Pacers' point total was the lowest since Buffalo scored 63 points against Milwaukee on Oct. 21, 1972. The lowest number of points previously in an NBA gam<· this season was 73 by Seattle and Washington. 
The 146 points by the two teams was the fourth-lowest in NBA his· tory since the installation of the 24· second clock In 1955. The record low is 119 points, when Boston defeated Milwaukee 6Z-57 in 1955. 
Darrell Walker, who lost his start· ing job last week only to regain it against Indiana, led the Knicks with 19 points, and New York Coach Hubie Brown said he sparked the Knicks' defensive effort. 
"Darrell Walker had a great game and his floor play defensively was many, many years and the state derives revenues from it," said As­semblyman William "Pat" Schuber. "There are ways legislatively to reg­ulate the sport without banning it completely." 
The four-member SCI began its in­vestigation of the boxing industry in February 1983 at the request of At­torney General Irwin I. Kimmelman. 
The SCI report contained al­ternative recommendations should the state not ban boxing. They in· cluded mandating background checks on all boxing promoters and trainers; better enforcement of licensing requirements; banning blows above the shoulders during matches; mandating protective headgear be worn by all fighters; safer boxing gloves; two doctors at ringside; complete cerebral and vi­sion examinations on boxers after each match; and a mandatory 30-day layoff period for boxers between fights and 60 days in cases ofknock­outs. 
newspaper headlines blared "New League Is Formed" more than a month before, and that the car dealer meeting may have served merely to finalize plans for a league that later would capture the im­agination ofthe nation. 
Carroll, citing the fruits of research, also offered these tidbits: 
-Only several years before the his­toric 1958 Baltimore Colts-New York Giants overtime championship game, "pro football was only about as popular as indoor soccer is today." 
-Just six years before that game, "the turning point in NFL history," the Colts were called the Dallas Texans and "were so bad, they wound up finishing the season in Hershey, Pa." 
-Even in the early 1950s, newspaper columnists frequently wrote that an average college foot­ball team could beat any pro team. 

contagious," Brown said. "He had eight deflections ... He had a spec· tacular defensive game." 
Rory Sparrow started and ended an 11-0 third-quarter streak for New York and Patrick Ewing had 18 points and a game-high 18rebounds. 
With the Knicks ahead 43-42, Sparrow hit a layup with 7:44 left in the third quarter, and 4:40 later, he converted two free throws that gave New York a 54-42 lead. 
The Knicks held the Pacers score­less for 5:38 during the 11-point streak and Indiana had just 13 points in the period, which ended with New York ahead 55-47. 
"That was the key," said Sparrow. "I don't think they could've scored that many points in a row with our defense." 

For More Information Contact: 
Barbara Haney-Powell 
Director ofForensics 
239-7753 
1 block south of Jefferson & Eddy 

Veed A -•of prblt boob !"'••lit.aold, •-n:llecl 

....o.-.~~•"•~-~-~-~--~-~-t:>....~.-~-t:>-~..,..a.,..~....,...,...,.,..t:...,..a..,..c..,.t:...,...,..,..,..,...,...,..a..,.a..,.,..,...,...,.,..,...,...t:...,..~ ~ 
i ND/SMC Theatre Presents  Ha~ Fever  by  f  
f  Noel Coworcl  f  
'f A Delig htfully Frivolous Comedy  •£  

0 0 
f O'Laughlin Auditorium Student Tickets $4.00 f r December5,6,7,12,13,14 MaybepurchasedatDoor f 
0 0 
~ At 8:10 P.M. Or Reserved by calling the ~ t Box Office at 284-4626 1\ 
_.,_.,_.,_~.....,...~-~.....<>...~....a.-.a.-.a.-.~-~-~~·"·"'~-~-~-<>·t:>·~-"·"--t:>-~.....,...,,...,...,...,.....,....,. 0 
The Observer 

Guard DannyAinge oftbe Boston Celtics harasses Darryl Dawkins ofthe Newjersey Nets in action earlier this year. The Celtics moved to 19-3 on the season with a 118-101 victory over the Sacramento Kings. 
The Notre Dame Department of Communications and Theatre 
announces 

AUDITIONS 
for 
William Shakespeare's 


Friday, January 17 Beginning at 4:00pm Saturday, January 18 Beginning at 1:00pm 
Washington Hall Theatre 
Please prepare a two-minute selection from the play. Reserve an audition slot at 320 O'Shaughnessy or call239-5134. Auditions are open to tbe entire community (Students, Faculty, 
Staff, Townspeople). 
A company of 19 will perform The Tempest February 27,28, March I and March 6, 7 ,8. The'role of Prospera will be played by guest artist Gregg Henry, Professor of Theatre at Iowa State University. 

"Happy­"Holidayl 

I I 

Thursday, December 12, 1985-page 13 1 
l 
j 

Wyche warns Bengals on letdown j I after solid victory over Cowboys ~ 
A88odated Preu 
CINCINNATI · Coach Sam Wyche says he will warn his Cincinnati Ben­gals players all this week to avoid a possible letdown in their season­ending bid to win a spot in the Na­tional Football League playoffs. 
The Bengals finish the season on the road, playing at Washington this Sunday and at New England the fol­lowing week. Wyche is concerned that the Bengals might not be ready to play this Sunday after the emo­tional high of Cincinnati's 50-24 demolishing of the Dallas Cowboys last weekend. 
"I'm going to do everything I can, 
in an awareness way. I don't think 
you can come up with much of a gimmick at this stage. They know me too well," Wyche said ofhis players. "They know what's at stake. 

"There won't be any conscious letdown, but there'll always be the guy who wants to re-read that article one more time, to plug in the tape one more time on Friday night and watch the Dallas game again. All he's doing is thinking about something that won't help us," Wyche said. "That's what we'll harp on, as coaches and as players, because it happens to coaches, too." 
The Beng3.l.s are tied with the Cleveland Browns, at 7·7, for first place in the American Football Con­ference's Central Division, a game ahead of the 6-8 Pittsburgh Steelers. The Bengals could clinch the divi­
sion championship and a playoff 
spot this Sunday ifthey win and both 
Cleveland and Pittsburgh lose. 
Wyche, in his second year as Cin­
cinnati's head coach, said he doesn't 
know how the Bengals could have 
scored a total of 95 points the past 
two Sundays after having failed to 
score a touchdown on either of the 
two previous Sundays. 
"Ifwe allowed ourselves the time to look back, we probably would be exasperated about that. We've had good days this year, and we've had some days we couldn't seem to tie our shoes straight," he said. "We're in it, still, and we're playing, lately, good enough to win it. That's all we can do, now, look ahead and carry on, using the good things that have happened to us." 

Tisdale scores 28 to lead Pacers to 114-101 win over San Antonio 
INDIANAPOliS· Rookie Wayman Tisdale scored a season-high 28 points and Quinn Buckner sparked a 46-point effort by the Indiana bench yesterday as the Pacers downed San Antonio II4-IOI in the National Basketball Association. 
Johnny Moore scored a game-high 30 points for the Spurs. 

Indiana led 3I·26 with I:26left in the opening quarter when Buckner entered the game. He had four points, three rebounds, two assists and a steal during seven minutes of the first half and Indiana led 48-37 when he returned to the bench. 
Steve Stipanovich, who did not start, contributed I5 points to an In­diana offense that scored only 64 points the previous night -the 
FOR ALL YOUR EYE CARE NEEDS­
COMPLETE EXAMS 
contacts. glasses-NO ISM C students, Faculty and Staff Show Your 1.0. and Receive 
20 ·;.OFF GLASSES OR CONTACTS 
Excluding Specials 

ProfessionalVISion 
ASSOCIATES 
1341 Portage
1635N.Imnwood 

234-2400
2n-1161 

Martin's Shopping 
South of U.S. 23 

Center 
I 
t 
*
# fBnnk&alt 

)btal fur <6tfts 
Free Gift Wrapping 
t . . . 
"Happy-. "Happy-~ . "Happy­"Holiday$ "Holiday, "Holid•IJ'I>
·~ ·~ 
Hammes Bookstore 
2nd Floor Book Dept. 
. . . 
<Happy-~ · . <Happy­"Holiday' . "Holiday'

·~ ·~ 

it 
* 

Sign-up foir *
*
* 

Free Christmas **
"* 

Drawing ** 
* 

. . . 
* 

"Happy-~ · . "Happy­"Holiday, "Holiday, 
~ ·~ • 
lowest point production in the franchise's history. 
Six Pacers finished in double figures, including Buckner who had II. 
The Pacers led 38-33 before Terence Stansbury, who came off the bench to score II, ignited a I0·2 Indiana spurt. Stansbury had four in the streak and the Spurs never drew closer than II again. Indiana led 65­52 at halftime. A mike Mitchell layup with 9:50 to play in the third quarter pulled San Antonio to within II, but the Pacers pulled away to lead by IS after three periods and were never challenged in the fourth quarter when Tisdale had 1 0 ofhis points. 
Holtz 
continudfrom page 16 
Still, he insists that confidence is the key to success. 
"I don't play psychological mind games, but I think confidence is very important," Holtz said. "Confidence comes from execution, execution comes from good practices, good practices come from concentration and concentration comes from a having a cause." 
After a 58·7 loss to Miami in the season finale, Holtz realizes con­fidence probably not at its highest level right now. He believes that the lopsided loss is not without it benefits and that it can be used to an advantage when next season rolls around. 
"It's a negative when you lose your confidence because people become frustrated," said Holtz. "I prefer the positive things, though. I think (the Miami loss) made us realize that we do have to improve in a lot of areas, and it really had a sobering effect on us. 
"I think now it can be a rallying cause. 'Remember the Alamo' was a cause at one time." 
Who knows, maybe a new era will begin next season with Holtz and a charge of'Remembcr Miami.' 
Correction 
Because of reporting error, there were two mistakes in yes­terday's men's interhall basket· ball story. 
Morrissey beat Dillon 43-29 in ACC League action. Additionally, Morrissey was last year's interhall champion. 
HANOVER, N.H. · With joe Paterno and jack Bicknell among those lined up with him, footbaU coach joe Yukica is ready to make an unusual goaUine stand to try to keep his job at Dartmouth College. 
Yukica, who was fired Nov. 29 after eight seasons at the Ivy League school, has sued Athletic Director 
Ted Leland, hoping for a court deci­sion that would allow him to con­

I t tinue as coach for the 1 1/2 years left on his contract. It is the first time Yukica has been fired in almost 33 years ofcoaching, and said he knows of no other fired coach who sued to get his job back. Yukica doesn't see his suit as a landmark case; he just wants to fulfiU 
Welsh 
continuedfrom page 16 
that if Notre Dame caUs today, I'd leave tomorrow." 
Notre Dame did call, and Welsh came. He brings with him some im­pressive credentials. For example: 
• He coached the johns Hopkins men's and women's swim teams for eight years. The men won the Middle Atlantic Conference cham­pionship eight times, and the women won twice. 
His men's teams were NCAA Division Ill Champions twice, and runners up twice. In fact, the men finished in the top six all eight years. 
There is an added dimension to Welsh. He was a humanities major at Providence College, and he earned a masters in English at the University of Virginia. As a result, he he is very open to expressing various feelings and ideas within him. 
"I wanted to be at a school which combined excellence in athletics and academics," he said, "a school which had a value system, and the courage to follow it. 
"But what I most like is that you can say things like that openly," he added. 
Another important aspect of Welsh is his enthusiasm. In the eyes ofhis team, he was a stranger replac­his contract. 

"There is a purpose to a contract," he said. "I think they owe me that year to coach. The contract says ex­plicitly 'head football coach.' " 
Leland has said Dartmouth will honor the financial arrangements of the contract, but will get another coach for the 1986 season. He declined further comment, but his lawyer, Thomas Rath of Concord, caUed the case straightforward. 

"We say you do not get specific performance in personal service contracts," he said. "The contract says head football coach, but the remedy if Dartmouth wants him to leave is we have to pay him. His con­tract is not a term ofoffice." 
Rath pointed out that from his research, no one has _ever ques­
ing former head coach Dennis Stark, a popular coach who moved to the new job of director of Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
"The whole team was kind of down because Coach (Dennis) Stark left," said men's co-captain Charlie Brady. "But his enthusiasm caught on to the whole team." 
His enthusiasm translates into two important aspects for the team. The first is to instill a new idea of excel­lence in the swimmers minds, and 

Tim Welsh 

the second is to make swimmingfun. 
"We're after a year of self­improvement," said Welsh. "We went over twenty goals for the season, and the most important one is for fastest or lifetime bests in races for the entire team. 
"With the new pool, the team has more of an opportunity to raise the level of a normal training level, which is a way ofsaying more work," he continued. "But we do it in a way which is fun, exciting and motivat­
an easy choice to make. My first love is hockey, but once spring season
McNeill 

starts with baseball it's hard not to 
continuedjrompage 16 get wrapped up in it." 
Whether he admits it or not, 

McNeill is already wrapped up in 
senior in baseball, and completed 64 athletics, and his attitudes about 
percent of his passes as quarterback. team loyalty go deep. • 
Even at Notre Dame, McNeill com­"I like to play offense on the ice 
petes in two varsity sports. The much more," comments the Irish 
weekend after he ends the hockey center. "But I will probably play 
season, he begins baseball practice. defense for the rest of the year be­
But despite the hectic schedule, you cause that is where I can help the 
won't hear any complaints from the team the most. It wouldn't mean a 
Pangborn HaU resident. thing if I played offense and we lost 
"My hobby is sports," he said. "Ifl every game. The success ofthe team 
don't have practice for some reason is the most important thing to me." 
I don't know what to do with myself. Certainly Mike McNeill is one 
But if there ever comes a day when young athlete who has learned the 
the pace starts to get me down, then art of competing in the sportsworld 
I know it would be time to move on and has given Irish eyes something 
to something else. to smile about. So, ail you hockey "Even If someone told me tomor­fans, take note ... it doesn't look like row that I had to choose between Mike McNeill will be throwing too hockey and baseball, it would not be many more hockey sticks your way. 
Cuba undecided on entering Pan-Am Games in Indiana 
"We go by stages, we have always 
done so," he added "First, the 
SANTO DOMINGO. Dominican Central American Games, then the 
Republic · Cuba has made no deci­Pan American Games, then the 
sion on whether It will participate In Olympics." 
the 1987 Pan American Games In In­Organizers of the Pan American 
dianapolis, Cuban Olympic Commit­Games have expressed concern that 
tee President Manuel Gonzalez Cuba might boycott them in 1987. 
Guerra said yesterday. They say Cuba turned down a 
"Our main priority, at this time, Is SlO,OOO grant offered to regional participation in the 1986 Central Olympic committees by the Pan American and Caribbean Games. We American Sports Organization haven't talked about whether we'll (PASO) to help cover the costs of 
go to Indianapolis," Guerra said. sending athletes to Indianapolis. 
tioned such a firing before, and "that 
tells you something" about the 
merits ofthe suit. 

Yukica has asked the Grafton County Superior Court to issue a temporary injunction preventing Dartmouth from hiring another coach. 
A hearing has been set for Friday in Haverhill, and Yuk.ica ha.~ enlisted old friends joe Paterno, ,coach of Penn State's top-ranked college foot­bail team, and Coachjack Bicknell of Boston College to testify. Former Dartmouth coach Bob Blackman, who later coa,ched at Illinois and Cornell before 1retiring, also is to tes­tify for Yukica. 
Yukica's record includes three Ivy titles, a 33-41-3 overaU mark, includ­ing 33-21-2 in the Ivy. 
ing. 

His training program involves 
laying a solid foundation of sound 
techniques and good work habits. 
He realizes, though, that such train­
ing programs could become 
monotonous and boring, so he tries 
to come up with differen1t practices 
every day, wlhich he compares to 
writing a poem. 

"We never do the same· thing two 
days in a row," said Brady. "He really 
keeps it interesting." 

The results of this type of training have been impressive. Even though the men's team dropped its last meet to Cleveland State, the litats show that in nine ofeleven events, the first person for Notre Dame: swam a faster time than the first person in last year's race. And as an indication of the depth of the team, the third person to finish for the Irish was faster in every event than the third finisher last year. 
Both the men's and the women's swim teams will have one more chance to check theil' progress before Christmas as they travel to Bowling Green University for a meet this afternoon. Welsh expects it to be an exciting competitive meet. The women especially have someth· ing to shoot for, as the Bowling Green meet last year w~JS the only loss in their sc:ason. 

SENIORS! SENIORS! 

Orders for Varden portrait packages will be mailed directly to HOME ADDRESSES 
by Dec. 23 

If you have any questions, please cal1 Varden Studios at (716) 546-2360. 

~(umni­~SeniC?r [fu6 \~cta{s: 1· 
Thursday Night: 

$.50 cents Drafts. Also, 
buy a Senior Class mug 
and get it filled for only 
11 Band:
50 t
' cen S' · Cold Drinks 


-

J~daY---------------·------T·h-ur•s•d•a•y•,D-ec•e•m-b.er-12•'•1•9•8•5-•p•a•g•e-15 

Bloom County 


THIS~ 1M 

ElleR'!' 'reAR GOING-TO ~Ff?ISE 
THE<( AL.L ~ EVERVQ'.IE". tl"l 
ATMV PR~E"NT:S. 
77-IEY SAY ,'VE EIO'i A a'IE:·TRIICI< 

SOIN5 TO RE"AU..V 
SHCM THEM· 
MIND{ tvrNOT 
THIS~! 

ACROSS 1 Awareof fl Gloomy ~~ Horse opera 
1~-Sea shelf 1fl -majeste 1Ei Physique 1i' Dogie HI Famed 
publisher HI Galas 20 Series of 
steps 2:! Respectable 
2:1 Poker money 2;1 Hoaxes 2!i Coalition 211 With some, 
bag, cuff 2!1 Sorting out 3'1 Pungency 3!i Hackneyed 31i Yoko­3i' Battery 
terminal 
3!1 Charmed 4'1 Faction 4:! Blacksmiths 
All Rights Reserved

at times 4a Councils 7 Pallid 
4:r Short jacket 8 Of course 4a "-,one vote" 9 Displease 4!~ Clothes 10 Betel palm holders 11 Spud · 
5:J Widow's 12 Clear up 
property errors 54 Patti of music 13 Pauses 5!; Egress 21 Fr. river 
51) Coeur d'-22 Mild oath 
5:r Minute 24 Statute quantity 25 Much to-do sa Adhesive 26 Biblical 
paper preposition 5!~ Epsom-27 Laurel or Getz 60 Permits 28 Depend 61 Duck 30 Encumbers 
31 Certain spring 

DOWN plantings I Killer whales 32 Catnap :Z Shipshape 33 Czech river :3 Anatomical 34 Beatty film 
tissue 37 A musketeer ·4 Referee and 39 Appearance 
umpire 40 Venerates 5 Radiant 41 Gawks ,5 Sum up 43 Bubbly drinks 
Wednesday's Solution 

44 -Gay 49 Engagement 45 Stairway 50 Test 
pillar 51 Mellow 46 Idiot 52 Ragout 47 Wheat disease 54 Buddy 
Berke Breathed The Far Side 
&{JfTr/(('6 /((J7"f -­{Jf(J ev!?li'YO#e Cflrtl{ IT!' ''~­SHIIPOW!NfJ ·~.. fl ~I&N OF Vflt.fP, SI/85TIItmV£ Wfi?I1T1/f?€. f/Nfl 
jmfS t!T&Rflf(Y FORM 15 f/5 Vlll.lfl 115 ANY, (l(J5f/1e WIMT50Mt CRfflCS H!We R&CetmY Oliff'. t.IK6 WIU/1/M 
F. BI!Ct<I.&Y. Norm/IT we; H&rre fiT~ C(}(JNTY" fl{(( fNS&CIIR&.. W&'f<& N01. liT AU. 
''FOR£SHfi(JtJWfN& ':.. f1 SfGN OF Vflt..lfl. SI.J8STIINTIV6 t..f~Rmr/f?t. 
81/CKUY IS II WIMfY FIITZ. 
Kevin Walsh 
As quickly as it had started, the egg fight was over. 
Campus 

•9:30 A.M.-4:30P.M.-Annual UnicefSale, 
Library Concourse, Sponsored by Ladies of 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
•I2:30 
P.M.-3:30P.M.-Blood Drive, Student Health Center 

•4:30 
P.M. -Sem.iruu', "Biological Activity of Venoms from Ants and Bees", Dr. W. Fred Hink, Ohio State University, Room 283 Galvin Ufe Sciences Center, Sponsored by Depart­ment of Biological Sciences 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's Veal Parmesan Baked Meatloaf with Mushroom Gravy BeefStuffed Cabbage Roll Sweet and Sour Pork Cheese and Vegetable Pot Pie Broccoli and Cheddar Quiche 
Western Sandwich 
lTV Tonight 
6:00P.M. 6:30P.M. 7:00P.M. 7:30P.M. 8:00P.M. 
8:30P.M. 9:00P.M. 

16  NewsCenter 16  9:30P.M.  
22  22 Eyewitness News  !O:OOP.M.  
16  NBC Nightly News  
22  CBS Evening News  
16  MASH  
22  Three's Company  ll:OOP.M.  
16  Barney Miller  
22  WKRP In Cincinnati  
16  Family Ties  
22  Magnum, PI  
28  Shadow Chasers  11:30P.M.  
34  34 Front  
16  FamilyTies  
46  Ught for Uving  
16  Cheers  
22  Simon and Simon  !2:00A.M.  
28  Dynasty II: The Colbys  !2:30A.M.  
34  Mystery: "My Cousin Rachel"  1:30A.M.  
46  LeseaAiive  2:00A.M.  

•7:00 
P.M. -Madrigal Dinner, Regina Hall North, Reservations only: SI 2.00, Seating begins at 6:30p.m. 

•8: 
Io P.M. -Theater Production, "Hay Fever", O'Laughlin Auditorium, Sponsored by Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theater, S6.00, 


55.00 and 54.00 for students 
16 Night Court 16 Hill Street Blues 22 Knots Landing 28 20/20 46 Manna for Modern Man 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 WSJV Newswatch 28 
34  Body Electric  
46  Praise the Lord  
16  Tonight Show  
22  Nightheat/CBS  Late Movie:  
"The Return ofFrank Cannon"  
28  ABC News Nightline  
34  StarTrek  
28  Eye On Hollywood  
16  David Letterman  
16  At the Movies  
22  Nightwatch  
46  Independent Network News  



developing courses on non­

Antl-vto.lence 'iolunteers:
MID ~ EASTERN 
Center For Non-VIolence Educa·

Ironwood 
VEGETARIAN 
lion seeking lull·tlme stall. 
Lodging. $150/month, health

thanks you and wishes 
•·Vqwtand .t lhtd Dulift FOODS SHAWBDtA .l#iJOBDERA • BABA GHENOUJ 
coverage. Public Interest group 

you a happy 
HOM MUS· FELAFEL 
violence and operating National

1"EB80ULI SAI.AD 
Holiday Season 
Coalition on Television VIolence

SOUTH BEND • LEBANESB STYLE 
national headquarters. In Cham· ·~U.Itt{ul Paatri"• Tlullult Co/lee 288-5639 
• Pite SiM/Ied ~ GYROS 
palgn next to University Illinois. 
The• • Sat 6;JOPII • 9:30PM

wood liquors 
Research, writing, oHice work,

COMPLETE C"ATEitiNc; FOR 838 Portage
1725 NORTH IRONWOOD ROAD 
monitoring entertainment. One
PARTIES A BANQUETS 

SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 46635 
year commitment. 

1O~Discount for NIJ/SMC Students L.-____217-384-1920­

r-------------~~-~---~--------~-----­
Thursday, December 12, 1985 -page 16
S~orts 
Pangborn beats Zahm; interhall hockey opens 
By ORLANDO RUBIANO pleased with his team's perfor­
Sports Writer mance. 
"Morrisey came out strong early, 

The first week of the 1985-86 in­but as the game progressed we 
terhall hockey season was capped started taking control." he said. "We 
o«Tuesday night In the ACC. In Cor­had solid play all around, especially 
rigan League action, Pangborn and by our defensemen." 
Zahm squared off in a battle ofearly· Even though Grace scored five 
season unbeatens. The two were goals, Rataczak felt that his team 
locked in a scoreless affair until missed several good scoring oppor­
Pangborn's John Powers scored the tunities In the early stages. 
game's only goa.l, which provided "We've got good talent on this 
the fina.l result. team," Rataczak said. "We should be 
a top contender throughout the"In the past we have been con­
season."
sidered as an outside contender, but Rataczak, though confident In his this year we have good team balance team's ability, said thatwhch has contributed to our early Cavanaugh/Howard and Off·success," said Pangborn captain Campus should provide his teamWally Stack, whose squad Improved with their st.i1fest tests ofthe regularto 2·0. "Defense and forechecking is season. 

our strongsuit, and as long as we can In other early-season action,play this way I think we will be In Alumni bombarded Keenan to thegood shape." 

-tune of 12-3 in both teams' opener. 
Whether Pangborn can continue Cavanaugh/Howard ( 1-0) tripped this success will depend very much up Dillion ( 0-1) by a 6-3 score. Holy on Its defensive play. Pangborn was Cross/St. Ed's ( 1·0) won a squeaker unscored upon In Its first two over Morrisey (0·2), 4-3. Carroll matches. Zahm's record dropped to blanked Sorin (0·2), 6-0, and was 1·1. awarded a forfeit victory over Fisher 
In Tuesday's other game, Grace (0-1 ). Pangborn shut out Sorin, 3·0, defeated Morrisey, 5-1, in a Krause while Zahm won easily over Stan­League match. Grace ( 2-0) got ford ( 0-1 ), 6-1. Grace was awarded a balanced scoring. as John Huberty, victory over Flanner by forfeit. Off­Sam Dempsey and defenseman Steve Campus, which had a bye in the Bishop each scored a goa.I.Jim Ratac-opening week, opens its season after zak. Grace's captain, was very break. 
Irish swimming begins first year under Welsh 
By PETE GEGEN this have taken on a special meaning. Sports Writer But these stories are not limited to Holtz a.lone, and the search for a win­
Consider this story. On his first ning coach is not limited to football. stop at Notre Dame since being 
The above story involves the new named the new coach of a varsity coach of the men's and women's 

sport, this person was walking in the swim teams · Tim Welsh. Just asSouth Quad looking at the Golden Holtz has told stories of wanting to Dome when the band passed by be a part of the school, Welsh hasplaying the Notre Dame fight song. 

likewise aspired to coming here. ­
It could not have been staged bet­ter. And this coach could not have "When I was at Johns Hopkins, been happier to be a part of Notre . recruits asked me how long I would Dame. be around," said Welsh. "I told them 
With Lou Holtz stepping in as the see WELSH, page 14
new football coach, stories such as 

ByTRISH SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 

Don't call Mike' McNeill super­stitious, but after a bad game he has an unusua.l custom. 
"It sounds strange, but if I have a bad game the first thing I do after I get out of the lockerroom is to get rid of my hockey stick. I'll let some kid waiting outside the lockerroom have it. Then Monday at practice I'll get a new stick and start all over." 
However strange his ritual may be, there must be some credence in it. McNeill currently leads the Irish in total points with 27, and the defenseman has chalked up 18 as· sists so far this season. His aggressive defensive play has been a constant for the Irish, and has e~lfned him the praise of his coach Lefty Smith. 
"Last year we threw a lot more on Mike's back than we no.rmally do to a freshman," comments Smith. "But he did an outstanding job for us. He has the athletic instinct and the size that we look for on defense." 
McNeill and his fellow skaters 

Sophomore defenseman Mike McNeill (left) skates of tbetr season wttb 27 points. Trlsb Sulltr,atl against Alabamt:.I·Huntsvtlle In action earlier tbts features McNetll below. year. McNetll bas led tbelrlsb tbrouxb tbefirst part 
McNeill's scoring and defense help lead Irish hockey team to victory 
need to find some consistency as a team over Christmas break, however, if they hope to finish the season strong. The Irish, who are currently 7-8-1, travel to New York on December 27 and 28 to compete in the Syracuse Invitational. The tournament won't only be pitting the Irish against some established programs, but it will give the team a chance to pay back a little debt. 
"Last year Colgate beat us soundly, 13-4," states the 6-1, 175 pound sophomore. "We want a win against them badly. This tournament is an important trip for us. I think it 
will set the tone for our perfor­mance during second semester. All the teams competing in the tourna­ment are good, and for us to even skate well against them would be a shot in the arm. But if we are going to get that far, I think we all would want to come away with some 'hardware.' " 
It's been a long time since a Notre Dame hockey team has come away with any "hardware" from a major tournament. So why then would a highly touted hockey player like McNeill choose to come to a univer­sity not known for their program. 
"At first I didn't want to come to Notre Dame," says the South Bend native. "I thought about playing junior hockey or going to a school in Minnesota, but my family really stressed the positives about going to Notre Dame. And it works out nice to be close to home. My family is very supportive . . . I think my 
grandmother is my biggest fan. And I have a little brother who is a year and a half, so it's great that I am a part ofhis growing up." 
Athletics has always been a major part ofthe McNeill family. McNeill's father Tim was active in baseball and served as an assistant hockey coach for the Irish at one time. The younger McNeill attended St. Joseph's High School, where he was 2 three-sport letter winner. He earned Most Valuable Player honors as a junior in the Indiana state hockey tournam<·nt. batted .378 as a 
see McNEILL, page 14 
Holtz speaks on coaching the Irish at luncheon 
ByJEFF BLUMB handed out a lengthy questionaire for each that he would continue to run the option Sports Edttor player to fill out so that he might get a feel for bert:, an offense he has had tremendous the pl2yers he inherited from former coach success with at his previous stops. 
"You just go and play the hand that's dea.lt Gerry Faust. Holtz was pleased with the "We will not be an option football team," you. Sometimes you don't get the chance to results ofhis survey. he said. "It is not to our advantage. We cut the cards, but you just try to make the ul only found one misspelled word and no would like to play a wide open football game most of it," said new Notre Dame football grammatical errors," he said, "and I did not with as little risk as possible. The option is a coach Lou Holtz last week as he was only run across an athlete who was not happy that risk offense. days into the biggest poker game ofhis life. he came to Notre D2me. "We're going to have to run and throw the 
Abusy man these days, Holtz is interview­"This is an exceptionally intelligent football. And we're going to have to control ing prospective assistants, meeting players group. That and the outstanding character the football because you can't be good on on an lndividua.l basis and recruiting. among they have give us a chance next year. Notre defense unless you do that." other things. But Holtz took time out Dame has won in the past with the same 
He had a few thoughts on Irish quarter­recently at an informal luncheon with mem­things." 
backs Steve Beuerlein and Terry Andrys.iak,
bers of the media to spell out some of his At the same time, Holtz is well aware that a plans for the future. number of improvements must be made on too. 
"They both seem to have some ta.lent,"
As he did at the press conference an­the field, as well, in orderfor the Irish to bet· Holtz said. "The quarterback situation is like nouncing his hiring. Holtz was optimistic, ter their 5-6 mark ofthe past season. For him, all other situations. Itwill be determined onyet remained cautious about his expecta­those improvements will start with the 
the field."
tions. defense. 
Holtz already has established with the"Certainly we would like to turn things "Defense has got to be the top priority," players that he is not one to fool around,around right away, but you have to be realis­Holtz said. "We've got some problems in rus­making it clear from day one that he meanstic," he said. "I'm an optimist. I even do cros­hing the passer, and that's where defense 
business.
sword puzzles with a pen. That's just the starts. It's hard to rush the passer without type ofperson I am. gambling somewhat. "I wouldn't say I'm mean, but I would say "But Notre Dame is coming off a losing "We're going to face a wide variety of of­I'm very demanding, very intense," he said. 
season, the schedule is difficult and we're fenses next year, so we're going to have to "I'd make a poor politician because I refuse losing some fine seniors. Replacing guys like work out ofa base defense. We will have to to compromise what I believe in." (Allen) Pinkett and (Tim) Scannell really be solid in that base because you can't jump The new Irish coach carries with him the scares me." around from week to week in your defense." reputation of being an excellent motivator. 
There are a few things which are espe· As for the offensive side ofthings, the new 
see HOLTZ, page 13
cially encouraging to Holtz, however. He Irish coach was quick to squelch any notion 



