
< I[: .J.. ·\~i ·~ ,· · 
' . ·,· "J ~--_r,.J. . 
. .• . ~:' ( • J <.--.. .· / . ' • 
.·, : ' /.I . 


MAGAZINE 
• COVER 
In the beginning, TV created Saturday Night Live. First to jump into movies, most durable of the SNL galaxy, Chevy Chase now has a trio of new films, leading with a comic thriller called Fletch. Page 6. 
• PROFILE 
The kid who smashed his model trains for 8-millimetre thrills, Steven Spielberg, may be the biggest achiever in Hollywood history. Page 4 . 
• FACES 
Kelly LeBrock heralds a new age in computer-assisted design, Tom Cruise IS green with pride and Michael J. Fox leads a double life. Page 8 . 
• DIRECTORS 
Robert (Romancing the Stone) Zemeckis, II years after a Best Student Film Academy Award, is a leading comedy/action director. Ridley Scott, of Blade Runner and Alien fame, built his visual talent with far-out TV commercials. Page 12. 
• COMING SOON 
Highlights of our next issue: The very hot Tom Hanks goes for a financial splash; Robert Redford and Meryl Streep give their all in Africa; Michael Keaton, Kurt Russell and Robin Williams take up the sporting life. Plus a Illrd twist of Psycho. Page 14. 
Cover: 
The twinkle in Chevy Chase's eye was captured by photographer Bonnie Schiffman. 
Publisher JOANNE SANFILIPPO Editor BYRON LAURSEN Creative Director CHIP JONES Art Director MOLLY RUTTAN Des1gn HORTENSIA CHU Produc· tion Assistants JACK CLAEYS. JOCEY KHAYAT. PAUL SNYDER Circulation Supervisor ROXANNE PADILLA Ass1stant to the Publisher NANCY JONES Advertising Offices: New York 134 Lexington Ave., 3rd Fir., N.Y.C.• NY 10016, (212) 696-0994 Vice-President National Sales and Marketing LARRY SMUCK­LEA Account Executives NICHOLAS IOVANNA, DONNA CALDERAAA. CINDY VINCENT Los Angeles 303 N. Glenoaks Blvd., Suite 600, Burbank, CA 91502 
(818) 848-4666 Director of National Sales HARRY SHERMAN Account Executives DAVE ERB, NORMA CORTE:S Chicago 152 W. Huron St., Chicago, ~L 60610 {312) 751-1768 Midwest Sales Manager JACKIE PETCHENIK Detroit Publisher's Representative MARTIN TOOHEY (313) 643-n97. Alan Weston Publishing, a division of Alan Weston Communications, Inc., corporate offices-303 N Glenoaks Blvd., Suite 600. Burbank, CA 91502. Richard J. Kreuz, President and Chief Executive Officer; Jeff Dickey, President of Sales and Marketing; Randy Achee, President of Business Development. All rights reserved. Some material herein used with permission of their copyright owner. Universal City Studios, Inc. Letters become the property of the publisher and may be edited. Publisher assumes no responsibility for unsolicited manuscripts. Published three times during the year. Annual subscription rate is $3.00. To order subscription or notify change of address, write THE MOVIE MAGAZINE, 303 N. Glenoaks Blvd., Suite 600, Burbank, CA 91502. 
P R 0 FILE 

I
t was I he summer or 1966. Steven Spielbng, l!i and moviestruck, took a I Iollvwood studio tour and broke the rules. Peeling ofT from the pack, the Phoenix, Arizona high-schooler stayed three extra hours, peering into every fascinating corner of the lot. The next day, and for I he remainder of that sum­mer, Spielberg dressed in a suit, carried a briefcase and walked in past the guards with blithe confidence, a pretender ab­wrbing a big league educat.ion. 
In the sununer of 19H5, Steven Spiel­berg's greatest movie creation, K 1: Thl' Extraterre.ltria/, will return to screens after a two-year absence. Coincidentally, it happens to be the biggest­grossing feature in film his­ton. With six of his films 
(jaws, Raiders of thr Lost Ark, Gremlins, Indiana jones and th1' JrmjilP of noom, C/o.1r Encounters of the Third Kind and E.T) among the top 20 of all time, Spielberg -as writer, director and producer -doesn't have to pretend any more. The studio he used to sneak into has custom built an office for Spielberg's company, Amblin' Entertainment, complete with a 45-~eat screening room and candy counter. 
"Walt Disney," Spielberg once told Timr, "was my par­ental conscience." Indeed, a "when-you-wish-upon-a-star" thread runs through Spiel­berg's life as much as it spools through his film tales. 
Born in Cincinnati and raised in Phoenix with three younger sisters, whom he loved to terrify with ghastly, imaginative stories, Spielberg hatched the notion one day to commandeer his father's home movie camera. IIe staged smash-ups of his own, beloved model trains. The camera was angled low and, to Spielberg's youthful delight, the models looked like real be­hemoths in a mega-disaster. 
\lore Spielberg productions soon fol­lowed. He plotted each on a storyboard before filming. One, Battle Squad, end('d the H-millimetre mogul's problems with the high school bully. Spielberg simply cast his former antagonist in the lead role. Instant respect. It then occurred to the teenage Spielberg that movies were indeed a wonderful path to people's imaginations. He realized that he hdcl 

SPIELBERG 

Movie Magic 
• 
by Byron Laursen 


another choice, beyond being either "a jock or a wimp." 
After the heady summer of sneaking into the studio lot, Spielberg conceived an honest way to come through the gates. Amblin', one of a series of films he made while studying English Literature at Cal State Long Beach, was a 24-minute story of two lovestruck hitchhikers. In addition to festival prizes, it won Spiel­berg an audience with a far-sighted studio exec who remarked, "I think you should be a director." 
Spielberg, just turned 21. brashly re­plied, "I think so, too," and was launched into the world of TV with a Night Gallery episode starring the formidable Joan Crawford. Remembering his student filmmaking roots, Spielberg has named his own production company Amblin' Entertainment. It's logo is from E.1:-a boy on a bike riding over the moon. Amblin' Entertainment now helps spon­sor the annual Nissan FOCUS (Films of College Students) Awards. He's also quick to help promising people who might otherwise have a tough time breaking into the film business. Law­rence Kasdan (Body Heat, The Big Chill) 
became a writer and, ulti­mately, a director in demand after Spielberg bought his early script entitled ContinPnta/ Divide, then introduced him to director George Lucas, who subsequently tapped Kasdan to co-write the screenplay for Thl' EmjJire Strilles Back. Chris Columbus, a film swdent at NYU, submitted a script with a great idea in it. It became Grl'mlins, and Columbus, who honed his skills through sev­eral rewrites, has become a prosperous screenwriter. 
The TV work lead to Duel, a movie of the week project, in which a maleficent, unmanned semi truck chases an innocent driver through a western can­yon. Duel won the Grand Prix at the Festival du Cinema Fan­tastique in France, among other awards. Most impor­tantly, it secured Spielberg's first feature film deal, Tlu Sugar/and ExjJress, about which Th1' New Yor!m· enthused "... one of the most phenomenal debut films in the history of the movies." The Sugar/and Ex­jness is a clcxas chase story, featuring (;oldie Hawn in 
what many critics call her best film role. 
At the age of 26, Spielberg was in posi­tion for a big-budget production. lie en­tered the major leagues with a toothy splash: Jaws played on primordial fears and established new box office records. The litany that followed helped set higher standards for film popularity, but E."!: has stood as Spielberg's favorite. The warmth of the film's central fantasy-a boy makes friends with a super-smart spaceman who was abandoned on Earth 
(continu!'d olljHigl' 14) 
THE MOVIE 7\IA<;AZINE 


I

Martha U1Jodward(2) 
c· 

Ifthis is what abeginner can do with the NikonFG,
imagine what you could do with alittle practice. 
Recently, we recruited a group of Because we designed the FG to be people who were novices at 35mm so simple that a beginner could take SLR photography, handed them Nikon great pictures with it from day one. 
FGs, and set them loose in California. Yet we engineered so many sophis­Their results didn't surprise us in ticated systems into the FG that its the least. perfect for a serious photographer, 
too. You see, the FG is a camera that gives you as much or as little automa­tion as you want. 
In the programmed mode, just focus and shoot. In automatic, you can control depth of field by choos­ing an aperture while the camera selects the appropriate shutter speed. And in manual, you can set both for complete creative control. 
What's more, with the FGS extraor­dinary through-the-lens flash meter­ing system and the optional SB-15 Speedlight, even the most complex flash pictures become simplicity itself. 
So try out an FG at your Nikon dealer. 
Because no matter how terrific you think these pictures are, theres nowhere to go from here but up. 



Nikon 
We take the worldS 

greatest pictures: 




:--, . . :,.--_ -,: ·.'-I c 0 v E R 
II .. ·~ -, ~ •• ~ I 

Fatherhood and Films 
by Mike Bygrave 

his is the best of times and the ree new films is type of undercover reporter who investi­
worst of times for Chevy Chase, 'the popular series of gates a drug scheme on the beach and 
one of the few comedy perform-by Gregory Mcdonald, then he gets caught up in a different ers who is also a major film star h -'7~.-..:~-mu . to open this June. It's a return crime." best of times because at the age o~.~;}-11P(Ii' o . Chevy Chase of the funny wigs, Though few journalists are likely to writer-comedian, who always wan disguises and raucous physical comedy. recognize themselves in a character who children, has just become a father for the In a fantasy sequence he plays basketball goes around "calling myself, at various second time in two years -the worst of with Kareem Abdul-Jabbar and wrestles times, Harry S. Truman, Don Corleone, times because Chase can only spend a in the dirt with Dodgers manager, Igor Stravinsky and 'led Nugent and get­few weeks with his new daughter, his Tommy Lasorda. "It's a comedy which ting the people I'm dealing with to be­2-year-old, Cyd, and his wife Jayni in requires acting to a degree, but not a lot lieve me," Chase is pleased with Fletch. As their Hollywood home. He is jetting off of serious acting," Chase says with a grin. a writer, Chase has his own theories to star in his third film in 18 months, the "It's about a Woodward-and-Bernstein about the relationship of thrillers to second one with extended shooting in Europe. Chevy, as Fletch, lays a line ofquestioning on some down-home swingers. 
"Three in a row is very tough," he says, settled into a plush couch at his publicist's office. ''I'd really rather have a year off with the baby." 
Chase has had varied luck in his film career. The original Saturday Night Live TV show, for which he was hired as a writer and gradually allowed to perform his own material, made him a star. He then went straight into the hit comedy­thriller Foul Play with Goldie Hawn. To the writer and physical comedian, fa­mous for his elaborate pratfalls, Holly­wood added the patina of a romantic leading man. But Chase's subsequent projects were wildly inconsistent, as he engagingly admits. 
"The films I've done that didn't work failed because they really weren't very good. I didn't like Under the Rainbow or Oh, Heavenly Dog!, so I don't see why anyone else should." Deal of the Century, an ambitious black comedy about the arms race, which Chase described as his "first real acting role" and for which he had high hopes, also fizzled at the box office. On the other hand, National Lam­poon:\ Vacation turned out well enough to make $104 million. 

THE MOVIE MAGAZINE 


(Above) Cyd, now two years old, bounces 
with Papa Chevy. Her sister, the newest 
Chase, is named Calei. 
(Above right) This "odd vibrations" 
beach boy is one ofChevy's many disguises for Fletch. 
comedy. "I think all those books are comedies in a sense-the James Bonds, the Travis McGees, the Fletches-they're all about the clever manner in which a larger-than-life character gets through situations others of us never could. And the characters have to use devices and scams to get by. What those books usually aren't, however, is very visual. So they have to be adapted to work on screen." 
In fact, this is Chase's second with Fletch. Years ago, his ommended the books to h wasn't interested in them the time around, the producer, Alan' man, was an old friend and writer Andrew Bergman, a co-writer of Blazing Saddles. Chase agreed to go ahead. Filming with director Michael Ritchie, a critical favorite for his early films like The Candidate and Smile, Chase briefly had his doubts. "Michael films every angle he can, then with every lens on every angle, which can wear an actor out. But when I saw the finished film it was remarkable how Michael had evened out my performance. I realized that he'd shot just what he needed to make me look good." 
The son of a publisher in the New York Times book division, Chase grew up in a cultured, sophisticated household and started his performing career as a musician, playing drums and piano. Col­lege contacts eased him into cabaret, in a show that later became the Groove Tube. He next toured with National Lampoon's stage show, Lemmings, for a year and a half, where he met John Belushi. Then came Saturday Night Live and show busi­ness history. Never known for false modesty (there was much of the real Chase in his supercilious SNL anchor­man who introduced himself ''I'm Chevy Chase ... and you're not"), Chase is now at ease with his fame, less prone to ob­noxious behavior. He credits his third wife, Jayni, and fatherhood for changing him. 
"I remember very well not being a father, and I don't know what I did with my time -a lot of things which were a waste. Not the comedy, that was work, but when I wasn't working. I was never a very social person. I've always been a 
, partly because I play music at 

don't know what I did. I'd just sort of hang out and party or something -and you don't do that when you're married and have children. I really wasn't focused in my life for a long time. It wasn't a question of 'my life is my art,' or my comedy, because I'd already made it. That's fine, you know, 'I made it­great!' but then you think, 'What more do I want?' What I always wanted was something that felt very natural to me." 
Now that he's got it, Chase's main problem is finding time to enjoy it. From Fletch he went straight to Europe to film National Lampoon's European Vacation. Now he's packing for Europe again, costarring with Dan Aykroyd for director John Landis in Spies Like Us. "Danny's awfully good and I've never seen Danny yet per­form to his abilities in any of his films. It seems he's taken to playing the straight man, he's deliberately relegated himself to that. But he can do more, he can stand on top of something. Here I think I'll probably bring out the best in him -I know I can -and I think he'll do the same for me." 
Spies Like Us was written by Aykroyd, which brings up the question of Chase's own wntmg. After a long layoff he got back to his desk last year ("Typewriters had changed since I stopped, that's how long it was") but he says Hollywood's demand for his performing abilities restricts his output. "The hard thing for me is the making of these pictures, the actual film­ing. As a result I'm limiting my writing to fixing scripts, rewriting as we film. of which I do a fair amount." Still, during lonely nights in Europe, he found him­self "reading a lot of novels and thinking 
I"~· 
.;, 
A masterful physical comedian, Chevy loves cutting up. 
about writing a novel. I talked to Jayni about it when she came over to visit and she said I should go ahead. perhaps under a different name." 
Writing a novel, playing music in the brand-new 16-track recording studio he has built onto his house or simply being with his family will all have to wait for the moment, as will any discussion of sequels to Fletch. Could Fletch become his Indiana Jones? "I don't know. They'd have to make it worth my while and I don't even know if money is it anymore!" He pauses for thought. "Perhaps if they could shoot the next one in my back­yard...." 1:1 
THE MOVIE MAGAZINE 

Type casting: the script caUed for "the most beautiful woman in the world." 
TilE MOVIE MAGAZINE 
F A C E S 
K 
elly Le. Brock has the kind of face most people don't forge!. They may not have always known her name, however. Le Brock was, until recently, one of the coterie of super-successful fashion models ­highlv visible, yet essentially anonymous. That changed last year when Le Brock gave up her lucrative cover girl career to ap­pear in Gene Wilder's hit comedy, The Woman in H.nl. Suddenly Le Brock was not just another prelly face. She was an anress -and ac­cording to most film critics, a darn good one. With one hit film under her high fashion belt, the 24­year-old Le Brock is anxiously awaiting the release of what she 
believes will be anothe1·, Wt'ird Sri­1'111'1', which opens this Julv. 
The script for Wt'irrl S!'ienl'e, which was wrillen and directed by .John II ughes, called for an actress to play Lisa. the ··most beautiful voung woman in the world." And Hughes, one of the most successful of a new breed of Hollvwood talent (he wrote i\111: A1om and Natio11al LamjJ00/1:1· Vrim­tion and wrote and directed Sixteen Candles and The BrealijiLsf Club), knew a good thing when he saw it. 
".John had seen me in Thr• Wtmmn in Red, liked me, and sent the script to my agent," says Le Brock, who initially turned Hughes down. Still 
reveling in the glow of Wtnnrw 's suc­cess, she was relaxing in the south of France. 
Five months later, upon Hughes 
insistence, Le Brock took a second look and decided to plunge into Wt'ird Sciena. The story revolves around two young boys, played by Anthony Michael Hall (Sixteen Candll's, The Brl'ak/rtsf Club) and llan Mitchell-Smith (The Wifd Lij(•). Home alone on a Friday night with noth­ing to do, they decide to create a beautiful woman with a computer. Enter Lc Brock. 
The film put Lc Brock in an unusual position. Though the oldest pe1·son among the leads, she had the least 

by Bill Braunstein 
amount of acting experience. "I was freaked out the first day I walked on the set," Le Brock recalls. "Everyone was vounger than I. It was like going hack to school and being seven feet talI, or hav­ing blue hair." 
Born in New York, and reared in Lon­don (there's still a twinge of a British ac­cent), Le Brock is the daughter of a F1·ench-Canad ian fat her and an Irish mother. While at a parry in England, a photographer asked the then 16-year-old Le Brock if she'd he interested in model­ing. She subsl'qucntly posed for a British Airways ad and a career was honl. At 18, Le Brock decided to move on to a bigger stage. Yet, when she came to New York in 1978, the mod­cling world was not waiting with open arms. "They said I was weird looking," recalls Le Brock. ·~;!II, dark and sporting full lips, Le Brock found she didn't lit in with that year's bumper crop of models the blonde, natural, all-teeth-and-smiles look. "Then, l got 111 )' li1·st job, 20 pages in Vo.Lflll', and suddenlv I came to hl' in demand." 
It wasn't hard to spot Le Brock. The 5'10" beauty's picture appeared on the covers of national and international magazines. ller most remembered campaign was for Christian Dior -a series of ads that had a soap opera-like quality with Le Brock as the leading lady. 
Her husband, producer Victor Drai (they married in .January of 1984) was working with Gene Wildt'!' on The Wrmuw in Red. Though Wilder was wild about I.e Brock and anxious to cast her in the title role, both Drai and Le Brock insisted on a scr·een tesl. The resull.~ made everyone happy. Now, Ll' Brock is expecting more good things with Weird Srienl'e. "It's a touching comedy that has lots of feeling, and something for everyone," says Le Brock. "I can't wait fo1· it to come oul." 





CREATING 
DANCES 
FOR THE 

CAMERA 

THE GREATEST PHOTO COLLECTING COUP 
WASHINGTON 
PRESS CORPS 
EXPOSED 


NUDES IN THE 
LANDSCAPE 
·""~··.;\
£1.50 
. 
I
-
Photograph by LOIS Greenfield 

An Invitation from the editors andpublisher ofAmerican Photographer 
Hm are cordial(!' im,ited to join !be most creatiz'e jJbotogmjJbJ• enthusiasts in !be 1/'orld ll'bo su!Jscri!Je to American PbotograjJber. As a neu· subscriber you are entitled to our introduc/(jrJ' qfler tbat sm·esJ•ou $20 03 ofltbe 
JOHN KELLY 
ON 
neu~:,·tand cost and bal/()[1./be one year IJasic rate. 
Bill EPPRIDGE 
ON 
12 issuesfor $9.97cbeckone.· D Pa)'mentenclosed oBill me R.S.V.P. 
Namc----------------,-----------------­
(pll·a~l· print) 

Address______________________________ 
Cii\·_______________Statl'_____Zip•--------­
Mail to: AMERICAN PHOTOGRAPHER 1255 Portland Place, PO. Box 2835, Boulder. CO 80321. 5AAF9 Make checks payable to American Photographer. 
Outside the U.S.: Add $6.00 for additional postage. Payment in U S funds must accompany order. Your first copy will be in the mail in 6 weeks. One year basic subscription price IS $19.90. 



~·lt'-" ~-.--r; 
' -:-· ~1! ,.,~ '-



MichaellFox 
Work-Uteinthe Fast Lane 

W
hile he filmed the new comedy adventure Back to the Future, Michael J. Fox, the film's star, would reach a Hollywood TV studio at six in the morning, play Alex Keaton in the hit TV series, Family Ties, then head to a San Fernando Valley-film studio and work until midnight as Marty McFly, his first big screen role. "It's like being three different characters," says Fox during a welcome break in the filming. ''I'm Alex, then Marty, and lastly, myself-I try to slip into that last character every now and then." 
McFly is a teenager who travels back in time to the Fifties and meets his parents as high school students. After a series of adventures and misadventures, he risks life and limb to get "back to the future" -the time from which he started. "That's all I can tell you about the film right now," says Fox, with a laugh. ''I'm not supposed to divulge any key story points." 
On this particular week Family Ties is on temporary hiatus. Strangely, Fox feels more tired doing only one project. "When I'm doing both shows, I find my­self with more energy. It's like that energy that you have at the beginning of the day when you go to a job that you like. Well, I get that energy twice a day 
to THE MOVIE MAGAZINE 
rF A -C ---E S 
' I 
instead of once." 
Getting used to film was only one of 
the challenges Fox faced. There was also 
the schizophrenic frenzy of creating an 
entirely new character for Future, as well 
as being Alex on Family Ties. But Fox 
claims it wasn't difficult. "I've played 
Alex for three years now. He's kind of 
like a shirt that I can put on and take 
off," he says. "That made it easier to put 
energy into Marty McFly. Plus, this is a 
character who's closer to me than any 
character I've ever played before." 
A native Canadian, the 23-year-old Fox started acting at 15 in junior high. At I8, he packed his bags for Los Angeles. Fox has appeared in features like Disney's Midnight Madness, had a recurring role in TV's short-lived Palmerstown, U.S.A., and guest-starred in such series as Trap­per john, M.D., Lou Grant and Family. 
Despite his success as a television actor, Fox realizes that a movie such as this one can have an even bigger effect on his career. "It's really bizarre," Fox says. "I can sit at home and say to myself, 'What a giant movie I'm in.' But I have to re­member it's a job just like any other job, whether it's a film for Lockheed or a 

Steven Spielberg production. Once you get on the set, you go all out. You do the best you can." • by Bill Braunstein 


Billy Barty 
Elfin Roles anda Giant Career 
I 
t's not every day someone decides to 
make a movie with an 800-year-old, 
tree-climbing pixie in an enchanted forest. But whenever they do, Billy Barty is probably the first guy they'll call. Now 60, with a show business career launched in vaudeville before he was 10, Barty, at 3' 9", is Hollywood's leading presence among "little people." His role as the diminutive octo-centenarian forest dwell­er named Screwball occurs in Legend, a myths-and-magic fantasia headlined by Tom Cruise and Mia Sara. 
"It's the same old story," Barty jests. "Boy meets girl, girl meets witch, boy saves girl from witch, boy gets girl." Yet, he says in practically the same breath, Legend is a bit unlike anything else in his more-than-!50-film experience. "The costumes and makeup were out of this world," Barty says. "I had it easy. My makeup only took three and a half hours to put on. Poor Tim Curry [who plays 
the villainous Lord of Darkness] took 
more than six hours. And you could only 
wear the makeup once. After the day was 
done, it had to be thrown away. It cost 
$2,500 each time I was made up. And I 
had one of the less difficult costumes." 
Barty, one of 25 "little people" cast in the film, found his role quite strenuous. "In one scene," he reports, "a stunt dou­ble was supposed to swing back and forth from the limb of a tree. He couldn't figure out how to do it, so I just ended up doing it myself. When I was finished, I went up to him and joked, 'I'm tired of making you look good.' " 
Away from acting, Barty is the driving force behind an organization he founded some 28 years ago, "The Little People of America," along with "The Billy Barty Foundation," which he started in 1975. Both help the medical world study dwarfism, and give their members sup­port in overcoming medical and social problems. 
"We've had to fight stereotyping for years," says Barty. "It used to be that you didn't work in Hollywood until a circus movie came around. Or come Christmas time you'd get a job in a commercial playing an elf.'' 
Though elfin work is still the norm, Barty has compiled credits including Alice in Wonderland in 1933, A Midsurnrner Night:s Drearn in 1935, Day of the Locust in 1975 and, as the traveling salesman Goldie Hawn thinks is out to murder her, in 1978's Foul Play. Of his latest role, Barty remarks, "It's a c1·azy story. There are a lot of spooky things. I am," he notes with the pride of a seasoned ~ L 
pro, "the comedy relief." • . 1 10.fi\,~
~/.·
by Bill Braunstein .~ ' 

\ If!'! 

' 
F A C E S 
Tom Cruise 
Creates a Colorful New Role 

L 
ike his pal Timothy Hutton, whom he met when they made Taps in 1981. Tom Cruise played Nathan Detroit, the pinstripe-suited proprietor of a floating crap game in the musical comedy Guys and Dolls. These were high school performances, mind you, but both lads emerged with a deep desire to become professional actors. Today Cruise -like Hutton -is one of the major forces in American film, with The Out1iders, All the· Right Moves and the highly successful Risl<y Business to his credit. Hutton has gone from playing schoolboys to portraying spies, but Cruise has diversified even farther. In his next film, Legend; Cruise will be a green .man who can talk to unicorns. 
"I was fascinated with Jack 0' The Green," Cruise says of his sixth film character (he also played a minor role in Endless Love). "I was able to watch as the character developed in the director's mind and in the script. It's a wonderfully unusual role. 
"Jack 0' The Green," says Cruise, "is a mythical character and requires a differ­ent sort of research." In spite of his teen heartthrob looks, Cruise reaches for deep detail on each role. He writes up a background for his character, to create a sense of history. 
For Risky Business, Cruise dieted and exercised, losing 14 pounds, to make his character look like a naive stripling. Then he purposely added a little layer of baby fat, to mask his musculature with an innocent, light chubbiness. For Taps, in which he played a brutal military cadet who goes psycho, Cruise powered down milkshakes daily until 15 extra pounds were on his frame. 
Because his father, an electrical en­gineer, changed jobs frequently, Cruise went to eight different grade schools and three high schools, from upstate New York to New Jersey to Canada to Mis­souri to Kentucky. Always "the new kid," Cruise used sports as a way to fit in, even though the family would usually move just as he had made new friends. Espe­cially after his parents divorced, Cruise's energies were poured into athletics. 
One day he pulled a groin muscle and, knocked out of action, transferred his involvement to drama class. The heady experience of Guys and Dolls sent him into fast forward. Without waiting to col­lect the diploma he'd earned, Cruise flew to Manhattan. He bussed tables in restaurants while looking for the break that eventually came in an audition for Endless Love. Director Franco Zefferelli critiqued his performance with a single word-"Bellissimo." 
"Acting has helped me mature," Cruise reflects. "My real training comes from working with my peers. By taking chances in roles, I've learned to trust myself" • by Jennifer Bridges 


Richard Libertini 
Such a Character 
R 
ichard Libertini, one of the most popular among Hollywood's character actors, has recently been a number of off-beat characters: General Garcia, the slippery banana re­public dictator of The In-Laws, Dudley Moore's instigating Italian manservant in Unfaithfully Yours, the lisping Latino justice-of-the-peace who marries Burt Reynolds and Goldie Hawn in Best Friends, Prahka Lasa, the loopy Far Eastern mystic alongside Steve Martin in All of Me. Yet, for all these funny, memo­rable bits, Richard Libertini is hardly a household name. 
One reason for the intense, bearded actor's lack of public recognition is that he makes use of a slew of ethnic accents to bring his rather unusual characterizations to life. Libertini's latest role in Fletch -he plays an exasperated newspaper editor anxious to have his star reporter (Chevy Chase) turn over a long-promised undercover story on drug traffic at a local beach -is a welcome change of pace for the performer. 
''I'm having fun playing a straight per­son for a change," says Libertini, speak­ing from a phone booth in Utah after a day's filming. "Frankly, I like to do stuff that's closer to myself, whether it's com­edy or drama. In recent films, I've spo­ken with one accent after another and peo­ple do tend to pigeon-hole you. That's why I was so glad Michael [Michael Ritchie, who directed Fletch] thought of me for the part. It may sound like a cliche, but this has been the best time I've ever had on a film." 
Libertini hails from Chicago. He was an original member of Second City, the well-known improvisational group, which also spawned Gilda Radner, John Belushi and several other comedy stars. Before making his film debut in Catch 22 (1971), he also worked in a number of Broadway plays such as Don't Drink the Water, Bad Habits and Story Theater. In ad­dition to dozens of television appear­ances, his other film roles include those in The Night They Raided Minsky's, Fire Sale, Soup for One, Days of Heaven, Popeye, Deal of the Century and Sharkey's Machine, in which he played "Nosh," a wiretap ex­pert who traded Yiddish quips with Burt Reynolds. 

The improvisational background came in handy on Fletch, when Libertini in­terplayed with leading man Chase, a former Saturday Night Live writer and performer. "There were a few situations that seemd to call for spontaneous hu­mor," says Libertini. And for the first time in years, Libertini was allowed to speak straight English. It could start a trend. • by Alan Karp 
THE MOVIE MAGAZINE 

DIRECT 0 R S 
I11 the 1970's for the first time. British television commercials sur­passed their American equivalents in style and invention. That was the work of a small group of voung directors, still remembered in the British adver­tising industry as a sort of "charmed circle." Advertising's loss became Holly­wood's gain and the entire group is known today for feature films -Alan Parker (M idniKhf ExjJress, Fame). Hugh l ludson (Chariots ofFire, Greystoke), Adrian Lynne(Flashda nee), 'Ii:my Scott(The Hunger) and his brother, the supreme visual stylist of them all. Ridley Scott. A stockv. red-bearded, softspoken man, Rid ley Scott looks determined enough to walk through a brick wall (given the giant scale of his produc­tions, he sometimes has to!). His extra­ordinary visual prowess makes him a fa­vorite among his fellow professionals, who realize just what it takes to create the 21st century Los Angeles of Blade Uunnn; the painterly palette of light and shade in The Duellist,, or the harsh and terrifying sci-fi vision of Alien. Not that 



Ridley Scott 
Visual Leaps and StaireasP Naps 
audiences arc indifferent to Scott's work. Alien was one of the most successful sci­ence fiction films ever made. 
Scott could probably have retired years ago on the proceeds of his commercials company, hut he's a ferocious and obses­sive worker. While he filmed Alien, Scott's family once discovered him asleep on the staircase, too tired to make it up to the bedroom. 
His new £11m, Lew'nd, is another mas­'iive project, opening this summer. It was conceived, Scott says, "between finishing Alien and starting Bind!' Runne1: I had the idea of an adventure story involving magic, goblins, pixies, leprechauns and unicorns. Like all such stories, I wanted it to hinge on a climactic struggle between good and evil." 


T(J bring his idea to life, Scott con­tacted novelist and screenwriter William I-ljortsberg in 1980. Neither man could have known it would take 4 years and 15 script revisions to get a workable film. 
Legend was filmed in Scott's native England and captures some of the es­sence of that country's ancient myths. Scott, as always, doubled as director and his own camera operator ("because I work so visually, I find it essential"). Tom Cruise from Taps and Risl1y Busini'S.\ plays Jack 0' The Green, who lives a fn~e life in the forest, until he becomes a reluctant hero and battles the Lord of Darkness (Tim Curry of Rocliy Horror Show fame) in order to save the last unicorn in the world. Filling out the Legnul cast are some of the best, and definitely some of the shortest, character actors in the world, "little people" who play the goblins, pixies and leprechauns. 
When he's not !liming one of his spec­taculars, Scott keeps his hand in with commercials. The celebrated "1984" Apple computer commercial shown dur­ing the 1984 Super Bowl, for example, was his. A man who shuns personal pub­licity, Scott has plenty of famous fans ready to laud his work, including Peter Hyams, himself the director of three big special effects films (including the recent 2010). Says Hyams, "I think Stanley Ku­brick and Ridley Scott are the two most inventive filmmakers in the world today."
• 
by Mike Bygrave 
Scott's haUmark: a richly imagined visual world. 

DIRECT 0 R S 
His third try was the proverbial charm. After two well-liked non-blockbusters, director Robert Zemeckis went way over the top last year with Romancing the Stone, a $75-million-grossing explosion of action, comedv and romance. However, Zemec­kis has just turned down a chance to di­rect the bound-to-be-successful followup feature. "I don't mean to sound conceited," the personable 32-year-old USC Film School grad says over a brief lunch of pasta, chicken and salad, "but I already made that film." Zemeckis' step forward is an adventure comedy concocted with the help of his ever-since-college writing partner Bob Gale, entitled Bacli to the Future. "It's a wonderful fantasy that is a compilation of all the great mysteries about time rolled into one," Zemeckis enthuses. Imagination and humor have marked his work, which also includes a kinetic, anarchic comedy called Used Cars and a fanciful first effort, a low-budget piece about four Beatlemaniacs, I Wanna Hold Your Hand. The cast of Bacli to the Future includes Michael J. Fox (from TV's Family Ties), Christopher Lloyd (Taxi:, zoned-out Reverend Jim), Lea Thomp­SOII (All the Right Moves) and Crispin Glover (Teachers, Racing with the Moon). The film, now shooting, is supposed to be ready by late in the summer of 1985. "It's about a teenager who travels back in time 30 years," says Zemeckis. "There 


Robert Zemeckis 
ComedyDirector Romances Success 
he bumps into his parents as teenagers, and some quite embarrassing moments occur when he sees his parents at the same age he is. It's an unusual situation, because he's confronted with familiar things, but they're simultaneously unfa­miliar because he sees them as they were in the past, rather than as he knows them, in the present." 
Zemeckis won a Best Student Film Academy Award in 1973 for his black comedy, Field of Honor. Is it difficult for a man in his 30s to relate to the teenage point of view? "Well," Zemeckis muses, "I hope I'm in touch with it. I feel like I am, but maybe that's because I always feel like I'm 17. But I haven't been sitting around thinking about it while I've been shooting, I've just been letting it go." Of his youthful cast, Zemeckis says, "They're wonderful, and I think they're really going to break out in this movie. They get to play such wonderful characters, the kinds of parts that aren't usually in a typical youth film." 
The idea of a teenager going back to the time of his parents' youth has been rolling in the minds of Zemeckis and Gale for a while. "Bob and I have wanted to make this picture for four years," the director confirms. The pair broke into the big time when they were tapped to write 1941. Next, Zemeckis and Gale are set to write Car Pool, a comedy/mystery to be directed by Brian de Palma. "But that's still in first draft stage," says Zemeckis. "It'll have to wait until we nail down Bacli to the Future." • 

by Zan Stewart 
USC Film School taught Zemeckis the machinery offilmmaking. 
THE MOVIE 1\[..\(;.\Zl:'IIE 1:1 

C 0 MIN G S 0 0 N 
W 
ill ANTHONY PERKJNS reprise his role as Norman Bates, the huggable yet murderous psychotic of Psycho (1960) and Psycho II (I!JH~)? :\ new installment based on the Alfred llitchcock classic is reponedly in the works. "I(> be called Psycho Ill (are you surprised?), the latest episode-su•·e to scare us with something equivalent to the stabbing-in-the-shower sequence of the original -will start filming this SUI!Ilncr. 
0 

W 
hat was the last movie made hy superstar ROBERT REDFORD? In what year? (Answer given below.) It takes a mighty pull to yank Redford from Utah, home of his ski IT­sorl and his facility to help fledgling filmmakers. However, Redford recently left the snowy slopes of the Rockies in prime ski season fi>r the green jungles of Africa. / lc's starring in the newest proj­ect by director SYDNEY POtLACK of 'Jimtsie fame. Look for coverage of Ont of :\fi"im, based on the life and works of ISAK DINESEN, in the next issue of The Movie .Hawninl'. Dinesen is anuallv the nom-de-plume of Karen Blixen, an in­dependent woman who lived through the colonial era in Kenya. The screen­play is by Knrt Luedtke. MERYL STREEP plays the heroine. 


SPIELBERG 

Filmmaker Spielberg with the young stars of Poltergeist, (from the left) Dominique Dunne, Heather O'Rourke and Oliver Robbins, and of E.T. The Extraterrestrial, Drew Barrymore, Henry Thomas and Robert AlacNaughton. 
t4 TilE MOVIE MA(;AZ!NE 
0 
L 
ook for lanky TOM HANKS -he fell in lo:e with_ a mermaid in Splash -111 a different enVIron­ment this fall. llanks will star in actor/ director RICHARD (1Hy Favorite }('rn; Rar­ing with the /\1uon) BENJAMIN's newest film. The .\Ioney Pit. It's a Steven Spiel­berg presentation, script by David (;iler. 
0 
xpect good sports in the next issue 
of Tht' Movie Magazinr'. The llll­
l)l"edictable MICHAEL KEATON. of Nip;ht Shift and M1: ,Hol!l fame, comes on strong as a pro hockey player in 1imrh and Co, while former pro baseballer KURT RUSSEtL and all-world goof ROBIN WILLIAMS team up on the story of a hard-luck college football team in "J'Iu• Br1! o/Tilllf'l. 
0 
T 
he la't REDFORD film? :\s di­rector. he copped an Oscar for (hr/inarv PeojJ/e in l!l7!J. :\san ac­tor, Redford's last outing was as the SLJr-crossed slugger in Thr .\'alum/, a I!JH4 baseball epic. 
( Uill/ inunlfiDIll jHIge 4) 
and needs to flv back home -reveals Spielberg's coni inuing abilitv to dream childlike dreams and set them onto the screen. It's working title was A 8oy.i l.ifi, and the movie touches squarely on sub­urban origins and otherworldly imagin­ings, which are also the stuff of Spiel­berg's life as a hoy. Fortunately for lilmgoers, Spielberg the adult has stayed connected to his childlike, intense imagi­nation, marrying it to a hungrily assem­bled mastery of filmmaking craft. In the making of E.. T, Spielberg was especially pleased about working with a group of spontaneous, uninhibited child actors. The praise he extended to E. 'J:.i young performers can be applied with equal truth to Spielberg himself: ··1 f you give them their freedom," he said shortly be­f(He the film's release, ··Ir you allow the kids to come up with their own inven­tions of how to do things, it's just incred­ible the magic they bring to the movies." 


Ididn't 
buy my 


carstereo 
backwards. Why should you? 
My car stereo dealer told me if you want clean. clear accurate sound-choose your speakers first. Because if the speakers can't handle it. you won't hear it. No matter what kind of sound your receiver pulls in. 
Then he told me: Jensen~ 
If you want to hear it the way they played it, choose Jensen speakers first. Jensen invented car speakers in the first place. And they're a leader today Simply because they know how to deliver the goods. 
Naturally I got a Jensen receiver to go with my Jensen speakers. Great team. designed to play best together. Makes sense. Makes great sound. too. Iwant to hear it all. With Jensen, I do. 



-----------------------~~--------------------------~~--------------------------~-.--~~---.~------~--~--~ 
Bells -page 9 



Student presentations on big campus issues delivered to trustees 
By KEITH HARRISONJR. tees to reject the proposed student NewsEditor activity fee increase, which would raise the fee from S35 to $50 and 
Students don't get a chance to dis­would direct the added n 5 to the cuss big campus issues with Univer­student activities office. sity trustees everyday. In fact, they Several reasons for opposing the only get one chance per semes~er, proposal were cited by students. and yesterday was it for this spring. Abood said the University should 
Student government leaders supply the funds to this office, be­made presentations on three topics -cause it made a commitment to im­South African investments, the proving student life in the PACE proposed student activity fee in­Report. He also said that in the past crease and student-faculty relations­student government has not used in their bi-annual meeting with the their funds efficiently, and if this Student Affairs Committee of the problem were eliminated there Board ofTrustees yesterday. might not be a need for an increase. 
John Dettling, chairman ofthe stu­"Also, the fee was raised from $30 dent government Committee for to $35 last year. If it is raised again Responsible University Business this year, what will happen ifstudent Practices, requested a meeting with government decides it needs more the Investment Committee of the funds in a couple years?" Abood Board ofTrustees in his presentation asked. "Will anyone be receptive to on South Africa. the idea?" 
"It's not that we're suspicious, Student Body President Bill Healy Extra effort includes reaching over the top ofthe be abandoning the great outdoors for the more we're just interested," Dettling said, said the senate wants the proposal netin thisgame ofvollegball during theZahmHall controlled environment of the library, because 
explaining his desire for the rejected because it fears the extra 
picnic yesterday evening. Although the weather remember, finals startin less than a week .... 
meeting. "Every investment does n 5 would be used to organize should be great this weekend, many students will have a moral ramification." single events rather than a long­Dettling emphasized his commit­term, continuous form of social life. tee's strategy for investigating Notre He cited an undergraduate club as Dame investments in South Africa. an example of what should be done

24 m~y get grade lowered in class 
"There has been both disruption with the fees. and discussion on other campuses Committee members, however, over this issue," Dettling said. "But mentioned several things they liked 
at Notre Dame there has been only about the proposal. 
discussion. We've been careful not By MARK WINTERS flunking is a mild punishment for member of the committee, stated, "I to make the mistake of being an­Several said it would eliminate the StaffReporter cheating," he said. don't know what the punishment tagonistic and confrontational." problem of funding projects which 
Rohrs said he suspected col­would have been,"(without Rohrs Overall, the committee members arise during the school year. Student 
'Ibe fate of engineering students laboration after analysis of one input). responded favorably to Dettling's activity funds are allocated during accused of collaboration on take­group ofquizzes taken in early April. The student said, "We're all guilty, presentation. They called it a the spring, so there is little or no home quizzes is in the hands of the Similar findings in a second group of but du Lac was set up to protect stu­mature, reasonable request, and money left for events which are or­dean of the College ofEngineering. later quizzes confirmed his dent rights, and the committee is ig· predicted that Dettling and his com­ganized after this. The MS campaign 
Twenty-four members of the Net­suspicion, he said. noring duLac and the system." mittee would be granted at least one was mentioned as an example. The works and Systems II class taught by According to one student in­The du Lac honesty code, section meeting with the Investment Com­proposal would give money to the Professor Charles Rohrs may have volved, who asked to remain 26.2, states, "The instructor has the mittee of the Board ofTrustees next student activities office, which their final grades lowered by two let­anonymous, the punishment handed responsibility of requiring a more fall. would be able to distribute it to any ters, said Richard Kwor, head of the down by the committee could explicit form of adherence to honor Several members also suggested such events. Electrical Engineering Honesty jeopardize graduation plans for principles on the part of the stu­finding out what major corporations Several committee members sug­Committet:. some seniors, and cause juniors to dents, if the instructor is to depart in South Africa plan to do if no gested approving the $15 for the stu­
Rohrs, who filed a complaint with withdraw from the course. from the practice of direct supervi­progress is made in South Africa in dent activities office and also the committee early last week, had The committee met Tuesday, first sion." the next two to three years. looking into the possibility of giving advocated flunking the students in­with the students, and then with In his presentation, District 1 

after professor suspects cheating 
see CHEATING, page 4 see TRUSTEES, page 4 
volved. "I am of the opinion that Rohrs. Professor Eugene Henry, a Senator Chris Abood asked the trus-

University law suit challenges group of subway alumni 
By MIKE SULLIVAN trade infringement. It says the as­subway alumni -people who have Dame in providing and distribut­versity officials and Juliano, who SeniorStaffReporter sociation's use of Notre Dame's adopted Notre Dame as their ing the goods, literature and made public his plans for a subway registered and unregistered school even though they never at­services of the association," said alumni group while he was 
Notre Dame officials have al­trademarks, such as the words tended it -to his association and Juliano. "I even offered to let the employed in the Notre Dame ath­ways been proud of the school's "Fighting Irish" and "Subway help build up a scholarship fund, University control everything but letic department. vast following of subway alumni Alumni," makes it appear that the that has prompted the University's they refused." Athletic department officials did around the country -but a recent group is affiliated with the school, action, according to Faccenda. The suit against the association not approve ofJuliano's plans, and law suit may indicate they would which is not the case. The University is seeking to is the culmination of about a year 
see SUBWAY, page 6 rather these Irish fans refrain from "Basically, Mr. Juliano has prohibit the association from using of bumpy relations between Uni-organizing into any group that ap­started up a business dealing with registered and unregistered Notre pears to be affiliated with the Uni­affairs within the University's pur­Dame trademarks, and also asks 
ND guards its trademarks
versity. view," stated Philip Faccenda, the that all goods infringing on these The formation of an association University's general counsel. "The trademarks be destroyed by the as­By MIKE SULLIVAN advantage of that market by selling 
of subway alumni has run into term 'Fighting Irish' identifies no sociation. SeniorStaffReporter anything with "Notre Dame" on it, problems with the University, as other university but Notre Dame. Juliano, who had been affiliated you better be prepared to deal the most ambitious effort to date, 'Subway Alumni' also identifies the with Notre Dame for many years, It might be the "Notre Dame with the University. In fact, if you the National Fighting Irish Subway association with the school. Both including seven years as the mystique" or maybe the large even want to start a publication or Alumni Association, Inc., has been of these are Notre Dame curator of Memorial Library's In­number of Irish fans, but Notre organization that appears to be named in a suit filed by the Univer­trademarks and it is our respon­ternational Sports and Games Dame sells. connected with Notre Dame, you sity in a federal court. sibility to protect them. Either we Research Collection, before Fighting Irish mugs and are going to have to go through the 
The suit charges that the associa­prevent other people from using leaving the University to start the sweaters. Notre Dame t-shirts and school authorities first. 
tion, founded by former Notre them, or else we will not be able to association, denied the school's Frisbees. The Leprechaun. The The reason is simple. Phrases Dame employee Herbert T. protect them." charges. Golden Dome. You name it and like "Fighting Irish," "ND," and Juliano, by using registered univer­It is Juliano's use of Notre Dame "We have not willfully used there's probably a large market for even "Subway Alumni" are ex­
sity logos in promoting itself, is trademarks, both registered and many of or all ofthe registered and it. 
see TRADEMARK, page 6 guilty of unfair competition and unregistered, in order to attract unregistered trademarks of Notre But if you want to take 


....
-------~----~----------­
The Observer 



In Brief 

Help is leastwhere needis greatest, according to a recent report by the National Student Aid Coalition. The report found that information on student aid programs often does not reach the most needy students and this lack of information often keeps disadvantaged and minority students out ofschool. -The Obseroer 
It was a time for honor and recognition yesterday at Army ROTC's spring awards ceremony in the Library Auditorium. Senior Kirk Kimler received the Batallion Commander's Saber Award as well as the Deputy Commander's Award. The Patrick M. Dixon and George C. Marshall awards went to senior Scott Hobar. Christopher Carey received the ReverendJohn}. Cavanaugh Award, and the Leadership Medal was given to Carrie Mitsch. Kevin Browne won the VFW award. -The Obseroer 
Ombudsman officers next year have been an­nounced by newly named Obud director junior David Stephenitch. They will be: sophomore Nancy McDermott, programs coordinator; sophomore Maher Mouasher, in charge ofpersonnel and legal affairs; freshman Kevin Becker, public relations director and sophomore Sue McCabe, information director. These officers will serve on the Ombudsman Steering Committee. Other officers named include: sophomoreJohn Ginty, finance officer; junior Renee Lee, survey of­ficer; freshman Tom Brennan, publicity director and sophomorejoe Murphy, student affairs director. Stephenitch said, "All of the new officers are looking forward tp continuing all of the programs that were instituted by the former director Henry Sienkiewicz." -The Observer 
The Soviet dissident Anatoly Shcharansky's family said Wt:dnesday in Tel Aviv, Israel, that Soviet authorities have shut off all contacts with tht: Jewish dissident for tht: rest of the year. A statemt"nt relt"ast"d by the "Free Shcharansky Committee" said Shcharansky's mother, Ida Milgrom, was told by Soviet officials that letters to tht" prisont•r were being confiscated and his visiting rights suspended until tht" end of the year. Shcharansky, once the spokes­man for the Soviet dissident movement, was jailed in 1978 for 13 years on charges of spying for the llnited States. Last year he was tran~ferrt"d from Chistopol Prison to a labor camp in the Ural Moun­tains. He was reported in ill health. -AP 
Of Interest 

An operaWOrkshop will be presented Sunday night at 7 in Saint Mary's Uttle Theater. The performance will include arias and exct"rpts from famous opera'i such as "The Mikado," "Carmen," and "Magic Flute." Directed by Carol Belland ofSaint Mary's Music dt"partmt"nt, the workshop features the work of student vocalists Christint" Vieck, Caroline Dillon, Mary Nessinger, Sarah Bradley, Jackie Kummer, Carolyn Curran, Christine Cox, Elizabeth Arthur and Noel Martinez. -The Obseroer 
Seniors golfingin the Senior GolfTournament on May 7 must turn in their scorecards at Senior Bar to be eligible for the prize. Scorecards must be rurned in before 2p.m. on Tuesday. There arc no set tee-off times for the tournament. -The Obseroer 
A candlelightMasswill be held at the Grotto at 9p.m. on Sunday, May '; to conclude Rasta week. Father Claude Pomerleau will celebrate the Mass. All are invited to attend. -The Obseroer 
The "Weddingless Reception" will be held 
tonight from 9 to !a.m. at Saint Ht"dwig's Hall in South Bend. Tickets are available at the door for $6. -The Obseroer 

Weather 

Mosdy sunny skies will appear today with highs near 70. It will be clear and cool tonight with lows in the low 40s. Tomor­row will bt" sunny and mild with highs in the low to mid 70s. -AP 

The Observer 
Th~ Obsernr ( l'SPS ~99 l·4000) is puhlishrd Monday through Friday and on homr tomball ~amrdays. ncrpt dunng t'x.am .and \'acaljon ~ricKJ.s.. lbt Observ~r is publisMd by thr stmknts of thr llnivrrsil}' of Notre I>amr and Saint Mary's CoUrgc Suhocrlptinns may tx pur<·h....,d for I ~0 P"r yrar ( llO JXr sr­mt•strr) by writing Thr Observ.,r, P.O. 
llox Q. Notrr Dame. Indiana 46~~6. 
~ Observ.,r is a mrmtxr of Thr 
"->clakd ....,_, All rrproduction 
rlghL• arc rcsrr\'cd 
Today\ issue was,. product.'lJ by: 
Deslg11 Editor.. .............. Maur<·en Murphy 1Jeslgt1 Assistant.. Matt Gra<.'iancttc typesetters ..................... llill llighduchcck Vic Guarino Mary Ellen Harrington Net.t.'S f.'ditor .............................Janc Kravcik Copy Editor ................... Cindy Rauddlor" Sports Copy Editor................ ..... Phil Wolf Viewpoitlt Copy Editor..........joe Murphy Viewpointl.a_yout ............... Priscilla Karl<: Features Copy Editor.. Margan·! McCabe Features Layout ............ Mark McLaughlin NIJ Day Editor ....... Mark Wime" SMC /Jay Editor............... Toni Rutherford AdDesign ................. ......... Mark Worscheh Photographer ......... ..................Carol Gales 
Friday, May 3, 1989 -page 2 




Prank to tum dome green foiled by ND security forces 
Your mission, should you decide to accept, is to turn 
the Golden Dome green... 
It was a mission for a chosen few who decided a little 
practical joking would be a challenge. But first, how do 
you turn the dome green? 
Six yellow lights illuminate the Dome at night. The 
solution was to place blue gels (used in theatrical per­
formances to turn spotlights different colors) over the 
lights. In theory, the blue combined with the yellow 
would create green. 
This would not be the first attempt on the lights. A 
few years ago the lights were turned on St. Edward's 
Hall. It was the brightest the hall had been since the fire. 
The planning and preparation for Operation Green 
Dome was not done overnight nor for free. The cost for 
the gels, which had to be specially ordered, was ap­
proximately S l 00. The planning took several weeks of 
careful observation and calculation. 
Before the gels were ordered, their size had to be determined. The only way was to climb the Administra­tion Building and measure the lights. For trivia buffs, the measuremeflt of the round lights is 28 and one quarter inches in diameter. 
"It's not hard," one of the would-be mischief makers said. "You just climb up the ladder. It's tough." he said sarcastically. 
Explicit diagrams of the routes up the ladders and over tht" slate roofs to the hghts were drafted. 'The (limbers were briefed and a date was set. 
The event was to occur on April 23, just after the Foreigner concert in the ACC. Security, the perpetrators believed, would be husy with the concert crowd. While there was some ground support, they thought there was no need to (:reate any diversion. Any staged diversion would draw security outside, in plain view of the dome. 
Security around the dome, like security in most places, follows a regular schedule, being certain places at certain times. OGD knew when and where security probably would be. 
The "Climbers Info Sheet" gave specific details ofthe assault. The climbers would carry rope (for safety reasons), tape and the gels. Five lights would be gelled simultaneously and they would get the last on the way down. 
They had even made plans to call South Bend Interna­tional (better known as Michiana Regional Airport) to warn them of the change in their most famous landing beacon. 
The escape routes were just as carefully planned. The 

AI.UED 

SHIPPING 
.Afr&UPS 
219-277-7616 
We podcand Sltlp 
UNIVERSITY COMMONS 
SR23 

Notre Dame/Saint Mary5Theatre presents 
Dario Fo's 
We Won't Pay! We Won't Pay! 
A contemporary Italian comedy Directed by Mark Pilkinton 
May 3,4,16,17 8=00pm 
and May 5 2:3o matinee . 

Seats$3.00 O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Please call 284-4626 for reservation~ and information 


John Mennell 
Production Manager 
climbers would fade into the sunset and would be able to tell their grandchildren of this great feat. 
Well, as it often goes with the best laid plans of mice and men, the plans had to be scrapped. OGD was halted by its own great planning. According to one OGD mt"m­ber, someone got hold of the now infamous "Climbers Info Sheet" and notified security. 
Rumors of the security leak and added security patrols near the dome kept the climbers on the ground for the night. 
"We counted eight security guards around the dome that night," an OGD source said. 
Security Director Glenn Terry claimed there were --,-twoextra people around the that night. "Somebody 
rr
tells us something that they think we should know," he said yesterday, and security takes appropriate action.

I Terry said it was not safe to climb the Administration Building. "It is not the kind ofthing we need as a studt"nt prank," he said. There are some dangers to climbing the dome. The roofs arc steep -hut the climber denied any danger. "It is not a difficult climh," he said. "We were on ladders and flat roofs. There was a steel cable to hang on to." It was a gallant effort at bringing some life and color to the Notre Dame campus. Had it been successful, it would havt" been easily corrt"cted and non-destructive. It shows the ingenuity that shint:s brightly in the hearts of Domers, and may again surface someday. Although security was justified in stopping tht" effort (it is their job), it is too bad the plans were all for naught. Maybe they should have tried another color. 
Tbe Obsen•er Lafortun~ offic~ accept5 da~-.iftcd advertising from 9 a.m. to 4:30p.m., Monday through Friday. The Saint Mary's offil"C' in the Rcg.ina Hall ba.,cmcnt Is open from noon to 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. The dcalllinc for next day service is 3 p.m. All cla.\.<ilflcd ad"i must be prepaJd. either in pcr!!lon or through thC' mail. Charge Is ten ccnt5 pc:r five characteo, 
I"'' <by. 


The Observer 
111 
The Observer/Carol Gales

Ideas, anyone? 
Ideas .for events at the undergraduate club and junior Edward Lentz look on. A committee is which will begin in 1986 were discussed last night beingformed to run the club, which will bold one in North Dining Hall by sophomores Barb Grant, event each weekend. The club, funded by the Uni­
jodie Cantwell, and Lynn Boyle, as Larry Detrick versity, will befree to students. 


Mahoney overcoming meningitis 
By DIANE PRESTI tor immediately recognized his stream, can be quite contagious, he StaffReporter symptoms as meningitis. said. Approximately 250 students Although he will not be released who have been in contact with 
''I'm alive and getting better," said from the hospital until May 11, he Maloney have gone to Student Mark Maloney, the Stanford Hall sop­was able to leave intensive care yes­Health Services. homore who contracted menin­terday afternoon. These students have been given gococcal meningitis earlier this Maloney said he does not know the antibiotic lifadin. week. what he plans to do about school A physician in the emergency 
In describing the early symptoms and finals. room ofSt. Joseph's Medical Center of the disease, Maloney said yester­Dr. Robert Thompson of Student said many people are carriers of the day that late Monday afternoon he Health Services said the symptoms disease, yet never show any got the chills. After not being able to of this form of meningitis include a symptoms ofit. eat at dinner, he went to bed. At mild cold, sore throat, slight fever, a 10p.m. he awoke with severe chills severe headache, body aches, and a They can infect someone else, and an accompanying rash. possible rash. however, if they cut themselves and 
On Tuesday morning, Maloney Any person who has been in their blood comes into contact with went to Student Health Services. A prolonged or intimite contact with someone else, he said. blood test, which eventually Maloney within the last seven to 10 He added that the disease can be revealed a high white blood cell days should contact the student fatal if left untreated. If treated, count, was taken. health center for medication. however, as in the case of Maloney, 
He was then taken to St. Joseph's Meningococcal meningitis, a bac­there are usually no side effects from Medical Center where he said a doc-terial illness which infects the blood the disease, he said. 

SMC senior gift given to EXCEL 
By DIANE SCHROEDER Mary's $25 million fund-raising cam­"At first we were worried. Just after StaffReporter paign, and was organized by Pas­spring break is a bad time to ask for cente in December 1984. money since everyone is usually 
Although spring break often takes Pascente was aided by Lisa broke. But the response has really a large chunk out ofstudent bank ac­O'Shea, assistant director of alumni been great." counts, many seniors at Saint Mary's relations, and a group of volunteer She said she hopes pledges will have tucked away a little extra to seniors. The group has put together reach the $35,000 mark. give to their future alma mater. a gift unlike that of any in the past, The first year's pledge of $6,425 is 
As a class gift, the seniors have Pascente said. targeted for the senior Counseling pledged to give a total of 528,231 to "This is the first year of anything and Career Development Fund, she the College over the next three on this grand a scale," she said. said, and will be used to purchase years. Currently, 75 percent of the class computer hardware and software. 
"We wanted to leave something has pledged to give an average of The remaining pledge, to be special to Saint Mary's because we S97 per person between now and donated between 1986 and 1988, are a special class," said Debbie Pas­June 1988. will benefit the College's annual cente, senior class president. Pascente is pleased with both the fund, a source ofgeneral budget sup­
'Ibe project is part ofEXCEL, Saint organization and results ofthe drive. port, she said. 
The Senior Class of the College of Business Administration is proud to announce the Outstanding Teacher Award recipient for 1984 -85 

DAVE RICCHIUTE 
Department ofAccounting 
Friday, May 3, 1985 -page 3 
Tillman given award for teaching excellence 
By BILL HIGHDUCHECK In last year's teacher evaluation News Staff survey, her courses were rated as being among the hardest -and at the 
"Teaching in a community like same time she was rated as one of this is a commitment ofa whole life," the best teachers. said Professor Katherine Tillman, After teaching at Rutgers Univer­this year's recipient of the Charles E. sity for five years, Tillman came to Sheedy Award for excellence in the University in 1973. She served as teaching in the College of Arts and assistant provost at the University Letters. from 1979-1982, as well as continu­
The award honors Father Sheedy, ing to teach in the PLS program. who served as dean of the College of Tillman will receive the award Arts and Letters from 1952-1972. during a fall meeting of the advisory 
Tillman said she was "deeply council of the College of Arts and honored" by the award. "I'm really Letters. She is only the second mem­grateful to my students. This honor ber of the PLS program to receive reflects on them and the Program of this award since its inception in Liberal Studies." 1968. The first was Edward Cronin, 
She credits her teaching ability to associate professor emeritus ofPLS. Professor Stephen Rogers, who died Commenting on her life as a teac­last Friday. "What good teaching I've her/scholar, she said she is "writing learned, I've learned from Professor all the time." In addition to previous Rogers. His influence is more publishing accomplishments, she profound than I can really say." has four articles forthcoming in 
several journals. Tillman said Rogers should have Her most recent article is titled been the one to receive the award. "On the Tension Between Intellec­
Walter Nicgorski, chairman and tual and Moral Education in the associate professor ofPLS said,"Ail of Thought of John Henry Newman." us in the program are very proud of Other writings focus on the thought Tillman and pleased that her excel­ofEdmund Husser! and Wilhelm Dil­lence is able to be manifested in the they. Program of Liberal Studies. During the 1982-83 academic 
"Tillman is able to combine year, which she spent at Cambridge dialectical skill with the capability to University, she studied Cardinal give good clear lectures," he said. "It Newman. is very encouraging for a teacher of In her future years at Notre Dame, small groups to be honored." Tillman said she wants to "keep 
Students also give high ratings to writing about Newman and keep Tillman. teaching." 
More LaFortune plans announced by Tyson 
Special to The Observer 

recreation areas with pool tables and video games.
You may be able to do your laundry, buy Chinese food and 
Food service counters at the 

watch wide-screen television in north side will offer grill items, bar­
LaFortune Student Center, if plans 
beque, pizza and ice cream. A salad for its remodeling are approved. 
bar, potato bar, Mexican and The Notre Dame Board of Trus­
Chinese cuisine will be offered at tees will be asked to approve the 
counters on the south side. $4.5 million expansion and renova­tion of LaFortune during an on­Renovations on the second floor campus meeting tomorrow. include a permanent stage in the bal­If approved, construction is lroom, with lounges added at each expected to begin this summer and side ofthe existing dance floor. New be completed in August 1986, ac­light and sound booths will be cording to Father David Tyson, vice added, along with a terraced seating president for student affairs. area and a bar where non-alcoholic Architectural plans by Cole As­drinks will be served. sociates, Inc., of South Bend call for 
The third floor has been an addition to the east side ofthe ex­designated the student media floor,isting building that will increase the Tyson said, where offices of the gross square footage from 57,300 to Dome, Scholastic, the Juggler and81,585 feet, a 43 percent increase in The Observer will be located. The area. Approximately 4,876 square University's AM radio station, WVFI,feet of interior space will undergo will move to LaFortune from its cur­remodeling. 

rent studio in O'Shaughnessy Hall. The east side basement addition 
Two darkrooms and three con­will feature a 24-hour laundromat, a 
ference rooms will complete the wide-screen television lounge and 
student media facilities. 


We sincerely congratulate him and his fine accomplishments. 
1983 -84 Winner Ken Milani 
.-----------------------------------------------­The Observer 

Reagan tries to defuse German cemetery visit 
Assoclated Press 
BONN, West Germany-President Reagan and Chancellor Helmut Kohl tried yesterday to blunt criticism of their plans to lay a wreath at a Ger­man military cemetery by inviting relatives of Nazi resisters to join the ceremony. 
The three-week-old uproar over Reagan's planned journey to the Bit­burg gravesites on Sunday raged on as the leaders ofseven nations dined at Schloss Falkenlust, a castle built in 1733, on the eve of a two-day economic summit meeting. 
The leaders remained divided on 
sensitive issues, such as the starting 
date for new international trade 
talks; what, if any, action to take to 
curb fluctuations in the value of the 
U.S. dollar; and European participa­tion in Reagan's "Star Wars" missile defense research program. 
The decision to bring relatives of Nazi resisters to Bitburg was an­nounced by Peter Boenisch, spokes­man for the Bonn government, after a SO-minute meeting between Reagan and Kohl, the West German chancellor. 
West German leaders hailed 
Reagan's courage in resisting 
pressure from the United States to 
cancel the visit. 
Boenisch said the relatives delega­tion will include a son of Lt. Col. Klaus von Stauffenberg, who was ex­ecuted in 1944 for his central role in a plot to kill Adolf Hitler by putting a 


Trustees 
continuedfrom page 1 
student government additional funds also. 
Brian Kaufman, student govern­ment executive coordinator, gave a third presentation, focusing on student-faculty relations. 
"There is very little interaction between students and faculty," he said. "It's not really a problem if we don't have it, but it would be a definite plus if we did have it." 
Kaufman said the link between students and administration is often emphasized, but the need for a student-faculty link is forgotten. 


Cheating 
continuedfrom page 1 
This adherence is ensured by, 
"distribution to each student at the 
beginning of the semester a form of 
declaration in which the student 
pledges honesty in examinations for 
the course, and promises not to 
tolerate cheating on the part of ot­
hers," according to duLac. 
Such a declaration was never dis­
tributed, according to both Rohrs 
and the student. Rohrs said 
however, "I spent a large hunk of 
cla'iS being a~ clear as possible about 
the quizzes." 
Sophomore Charles Weigel, a 
member of the class not involved in 
the cheating, agreed. "He (Rohrs) 
discussed extensively the impor­
tance of the quizzes. The use of 
textbooks was allowed, but we 
weren't supposed to usc any other 
material." 
Henry said the committee dis­
regarded this regulation because the 
cheating involved quizzes and not 
examinations. 
An:ording to the anonymous stu­dent, several of the students in­volved arc upset because they were denied individual trials, and because of Rohrs' input into the committee decision. 
The student also said that several students are expected to appeal the decision to Roger Schmitz, dean of the College of Engineering. 
lhe students' fate now lies with Schmitz, who ha~ the power to dis­miss the charges ifan appeal is made. 

bomb under a table in his con­ference room. 
Hitler suffered minor injuries, but 5,000 people, including relatives and friends of military officers in­volved in the plot, were executed by the Nazis. 
A West German official, speaking on condition of not being identified, said the idea was "to make Bitburg more popular." The decision "was an attempt to get rid of the dishar­mony" over the trip. 
The official said the idea ofadding the relatives was conceived by the West Germans and agreed to by U.S. officials earlier this week. But the of­ficial would not identify others in the delegation, because not all the invitations had been sent yet. 
Earlier, the U.S. side had tried ot­
her steps to defuse the controversy. 
Reagan switched course and agreed 
to visit the Bergen-Belsen con­
centration camp site, also on Sun­
day. Some 50,000 people died at the 
hands of the SS there. 
And late last week, U.S. officials 
tried unsuccessfully to persuade 
Nazi-hunter Simon Wiesenthal and 
Holocaust survivor Elie Wiesel to 
join Reagan and Kohl at Bitburg. 
A flap also emerged over what 
Reagan told Kohl about criticism of 
the Bitburg visit in the United States, 
where majorities in both houses of 
Congress have joined veterans, and 
Jewish and other groups in seeking 
cancellation of the ceremony. 
~--~ 

Friday, May 3, 1985-page 4 

sprnced up in anticipation of the graduation crowds who will be here for the ceremony two weeksfrom this Sunday. 

SMC seniors plan for graduation 
By HELEN LUCAITIS 
News Staff 
Seniors at Saint Mary's do not depend on Notre Dame senior month activities alone. 
Although there arc numerous ac­tivities planned for both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's seniors, there are some activities for only Saint Mary's graduates. 
Saint Mary's seniors are invited to attend a picnic at President Dug­gan's home on MayS at 2p.m. 


A RITA MARLEY PRODUCTION 

REFRIGERATOR RETURN 
All refrigerators rented frorn S.A.B. must be returned to: 
STEPAN CENTER 
SUNDAY, MAY 5 
1:00-5:00 p.m. 
Refrigerators must be cleaned and defrosted before deposit wi II be returned. 
Sponsored by Services Commission of your Student Activities Board 

On May 6, seniors will be grouped 
according to their majors and will 
proceed to an Honors Convocation 
which will be held in O'Laughlin 
Auditorium. 

A Junior/Senior picnic will take 
place on May 7 at 5:30p.m. when the 
two classes will dine togethe( on the 
Haggar terrace. 

An Alumnae/Senior Mass will take place in the Church of Loretto on May 16 at 1 Oa.m. and will be followed by a champagne brunch in the dining hall, where the College's president will open with a toast. 
The pinning ceremony for nur­sing students will take place at I p.m. on May 17. Baccalaureate Mass will be held that afternoon at 4p.m. in Angela Athletic Facility. A feception at the Century Center will be held at 10 p.m. for seniors and their families and friends. 
Commencement will be held in the LcMans courtyard at 10:30 a.m. on May 18 and will be followed by a Graduation brunch in the dining hall. 


5S-$PECIAL-$R 
~  $895  ~  
A  A DAY PLUS  A  
8  TAX &MILEAGE  ~  

~This Special Is From f 
April 29th To May 6th 
--TWO LOCAnONS-­
321lii'IIIIIIIIM
So.BEID T!Ialialt 
219-291-7788 219-25&-5550 
$-WEHELP YOU WHE)lE ITCOUNTS-$ 
SAVE-A-BUK RENT-A-CARS 
driver restriction• apply 
Friday, May 3, 1985 -page 5 
Valve may have caused salmonella outbreak 
The Observer 

A University of Massachusetts student tries to wave to her friends after she and others were put aboard buses following their arrest for occupying a building at the Amherst campus Wednesday. 1bey 
Sanctions for South Africa planned 
Associated Press It would also suspend the sale of sion condemning apartheid and set­American computers to South Africa ting up a commission to investigate 
WASHINGTON The and shut off imports to the United conditions in South Africa was Democratic-controlled House States of an estimated $600 million rejected 19-4. Foreign Affairs Committee voted 26-in South African gold coins called 
6 yesterday to impose new Krugerrands. The Democratic measure now economic sanctions against South All six "no" votes came from goes to the House floor where Africa and its system of racial apar­Republicans who argued that rather speedy consideration is likely, pos­theid. than encourage improved race rela­sibly before the end of May. The legislation -opposed by the tions in South Africa, the sanctions Similar legislation is pending in 
Reagan administration would would worsen conditions for the the Republican-controlled Senate, prohibit new U.S. investment and black majority there. which is likely to debate the issue by loans in South Africa. A watert:<l-d<!...wn Republican ver-mid-summer. 
were protesting the school's dealings with com­panies conducting business in South Africa. Related story below. 
Open at 11om tor Lunch 

You've been studying for Domino's Deluxe 
r----------------------,

hours. The pages are 5 items for the price of 4: Pay only $5.99' for ablurring and your stomach Pepperoni. Mushrooms. 
$5.99 12" one item pizza

is stirring. So why not take Omons. Green Peppers and 2 Cokes• a break and call Domino's and Sausage 
Special 
Good Fri .. Sat.. and Sun. Only

Pizza? We'll be there with 12" deluxe$ 8.55 a hot. custom-made pizza 16" deluxe $12.35 in 30 minutes or less. Guaranteed! All of our 
Electives pizzas are made with 

Pepperoni. Mushrooms. 100% real dairy cheese 
Black Olives. Onions. and fresh. not frozen. Green Olives. Sausage. toppings. Now isn't that Ground Beef, Ham, Green 
worth contemplating! Peppers. Double Cheese. Extra Thick Crust 
~L---------------~® 12" pizza$ .89 per item 
Menu 16" pizza $1 .29 per'item L-------·--------------J All Pizzas Include Our 
Coke'/16 oz. bottles. DOMINO'S 
Special Blend of Sauce 59¢.
and 100% Real Cheese 
PIZZA 

Our drivers carry less DELIVERS™
Our Superb Cheese Pizza 
than $20.00 12"cheese$4.99 ~ 
FREE.
16" cheese $7.19 

Limited Delivery Area 
® 

Pnces do nol mclude applicable sales tax c l984 Dommo·s p,zza. Inc. 
Associated Press 

SPRINGFIELD, Ill. -An illegal valve that could have allowed the mixing ofpasteurized with raw milk at a suburban Chicago dairy so far is the leading clue to the source ofthe nation's worst salmonella outbreak, Illinois' public health chief said yes­terday. 
"At this point, it doesn't appear there's any more likely cause than that," said Dr. Bernard Turnock, ac­ting director of the state Public Health Department. But he cau­tioned that medical detectives are still running tests and that "none of the other possibilities can be dis­counted at this point." 
The "cross-connection" valve was one of 13 violations at the Hillfarm Dairy in Melrose Park cited in early April by federal and state inves­tigators. The task force probing the outbreak initially rejected the viola­tions as possible causes of the sal­monella contamination, but corrected the valve problem when it was found on April 3. 
The violations were not publicly disclosed until Wednesday, at a legislative hearing into the state's handling ofthe salmonella outbreak. As of yesterday afternoon, 14,828 cases of salmonella food poisoning had been reported in six states, 13,339 of them confirmed. The epidemic began in late March, and was traced to milk produced by the dairy and sold in Jewel Companies, Inc. grocery stores. 
Turnock said a report expected within a few days from the team of federal and state health investigators likely would shed light on whether the cross-connection in pipes was in 
Dept. of Communication and Theatre Film Series at the Snite 
A 
legislative hearing into the state's handling ofthe salmonella outbreak. 
Lewis Schultz, a chiefdairy official in the public health agency, said after Wednesday's hearing that tests indicated there had been no mixing ofpasteurized and raw milk because of the valve. Although described by public health officials as "illegal," the equipment was approved in the early 1970s by Chicago health in­spectors, officials said. 
Even though tests previously cleared the valve, Turnock said it was possible that at one point during milk production "unusual environ­mental and mechanical factors inter­played to create a situation of cross-contamination." 
Bacteria blamed for the outbreak first was found in low-fat milk from the Jewel-owned dairy, which was closed April 9 by the company. At that facility, the blending of milk components to make two percent milk took place in a tank after raw milk was pasteurized. In most other major Chicago-area dairies, blend­ing occurs before pasteurization, which is regarded as providing an extra safety precaution. 
If the contamination is traced to the blending equipment, some dairy experts suggested the easiest solu­tion would be to move the unit so blending occurs before pasteuriza­tion. 
"It would seem that post­pasteurization would be a better fail-safe process because you just basically pasteurize and bottle the milk and so the product should be safe," Dr. Mitchell Cohen, a sal­monella expert at the Federal Center for Disease Control in At­lanta, told the Chicago Tribune. 
communiCAnon 
a. THEATRE 

FrL May3 Robert Bresson's L'argent (1983) Loosely adapted from a story by Lev Tolstoy, this film by Bresson, (Diary ofa Country Priest) traces the link between money and evil with assurance and economy_ One ofthe ten best films of1983. 7:30pm 
Individual admission $2_50 


GREYHOUND 
WILL BE ON CAMPUS FRIDAY, MAY lOth TRRU TUESDAY, 'MAY 14th, TO PICK UP YOUR TRUNKS fl BOXES FOR SHIPMENT ROME. 
GREYHOUND VAN WILL BE BEHIND THE BOOKSTORE MAY lOth TRR U MAY 14th FROM 10 a.m. UNTIL 5 p.m. 
INDIVIDUAL TRUNKS AND BOXES CANNOT EXCEED 100 POUNDS. WE'LL RAVE TAPE AND SHIPPING LABELS. 
The Observer 


Th~ Observer/Carol Gales

Ready for the woodpile 
This wood is former elm trees which were cut sawing of the trees was loud enough to serve as a down outside ofCushing Hall ofEngineering yes­distraction to some students who badclasses inside terday because they bad Dutch elm disease. The the building. 
Subway 
continuedfrom page 1 
eventually told him to stop or else leave his job in the sports informa­tion department. He did not stop, and found himself out of a job by July. For the next two months, Juliano worked on building his as­sociation without the approval of the University. Since then, the Uni­versity has sent him a "cease and desist" letter, and Faccenda has met with him to convince him to change the name of his association, among other things. 
"I called him in and told him for three hours not to go ahead with his plans," said Faccenda. "That was after the athletic department told him not to. We tried to give him time to change his mind, but he has refused." 
Although the University has fought Juliano since he founded the group, it has not singled him out. Notre Dame Subway Alumni, Inc., an organization based in Chicago, also drew the attention ofthe University. 
Tom Murphy, who was a semi­narian at Notre Dame more than 50 years ago and who is the founder of the Chicago group, was contacted by Patricia Lyons, the assistant general counsel, and soon after, dis­banded his group. 
"I had some nice conversations with (Lyons)," said Murphy, who had hoped to set up a scholarship fund with his group. "We decided that ifsuch a group got in the wrong hands it could be detrimental to the school and could alienate some people who were contributing. I decided to hold off." 
The University did not have as much luck with Juliano, who was not surprised by the school's recent actions. 
"I knew from day one that even­tually they would sue," said Juliano. "( Faccenda) told me that the Uni­versity would spend 5200,000 if necessary to drag the association through the courts. I think they'd like nothing better than for me to shut down the tent and go away. 
Trademark 
continuedjrom page 1 
elusive property of the University. Even the leprechaun design, the Uni­versity seal, the profile of the dome and the shamrock design are con­sidered by the University as regis­tered and unregistered trademarks of the University of Notre Dame. 
lbe recent suit against the Na­tional Fighting Irish Subway Alumni Association is a good example of what could happen ifyou infringe on a Notre Dame trademark. Rarely does the situation reach the law suit stage, but the University is not averse to bringing the matter to court. 
In the case of the subway alumni association, which has no connec­tion with Notre Dame, the Univer­sity is charging unfair competition and trade restriction because the as­st>ciation has promoted itself by using registered and unregistered 
They made it clear from the begin­
ning that they didn't want a subway 
alumni group. 
"I think they're afraid that we're 
going to cost the University some 
money by getting wealthy members 
who will leave their money to the 
association and not the school." 
The University said the purpose of 
its suit is not the disbandment ofthe 
association at all, but rather is 
strictly a legal matter concerning 
marketing and licensing of Notre 
Dame paraphernalia. 
"We are not here to put them out 
ofbusiness," said associate sports in­
formation direcrorJohn Heisler. "All 
we're saying is that they should not 
be permitted to use our name if 
they're not associated with the Uni­
versity. And, technically, they are 
not connected." 

Although neither side appears wil­ling to give in, lawyers for both Juliano and the University have met and an out-of-court settlement ap­pears to be probable. 
"I think there's a good chance that everything will get settled out of court," said Juliano. "My lawyer has convinced me that they can never win on 'Subway Alumni' and he's not sure about 'Fighting Irish.' But he's optimistic that we'll come to a quick decision." 

If there is no quick decision, though,Juliano's group could find it­self in extreme financial difficulty. Although it has members in every state, Japan and Canada, the associa­tion does not have enough money in its coffers to afford an extended legal battle. 
"We don't have any money to spend on lawyers," admittedJuliano. "I haven't taken a dollar's worth of salary since I founded the group and I may never. Still, we've spent almost as much as we took in. It doesn't seem fair to me that they're attack­ing us with lawyers. If they'd just stop being so negative toward us, I'm sure our membership would in­crease." 
According to Juliano, the aim of his association is not to raise money and get involved with recruiting like a booster club, but rather "to per­petuate the history, heritage and 
school logos and trademarks like "Fighting Irish" and "Subway Alumni." 
" 'Fighting Irish' identifies no ot­her university but Notre Dame," said Notre Dame general counsel Philip Faccenda. " 'Subway Alumni' also identifies the association with Notre Dame. 
"It is our responsibility to protect our trademarks. Either we prevent people from using it, or else we will not be able to protect it." 
In recent years, the University has become increasingly interested in the licensing of its trademarks and logos. As a result, it has made an agreement with one manufacturer, Champion Products, Inc., to su­pervise all licensing. 
"Trademarks and logos are some­thing that the University has taken upon itself to pay more attention to," explained john Heisler, as­sociate sports information director. "Ten years ago, anybody could manufacture something with Notre tradition of Notre Dame athletics." 
"By allowing subway alumni to 
become part of an organization, it 
gives them the feeling of being part 
of the school," said Juliano, who 
never went to college. "We want to 
make them feel recognized and ap­
preciated." 
Juliano's association is registered as a non-profit, educational or­ganization although it does charge a membership fee which is put into a scholarship fund is used to provide "academic scholarships to needy Notre Dame students," according to Juliano. The first $2,000 scholarship has already been granted to Fort Wayne resident John Devine Jr., who will be a member ofthe Class of 1989. 
Juliano said the University's ac­tions can only hurt the school's relationship with the subway alumni. 
"I've talked to a number of sub­way alumni and they're deeply hurt by Notre Dame's attitude," said Juliano. "They feel Notre Dame is more or less saying to them, 'We don't want you, we don't need you.' They feel they've been slapped in tl1e face." 
The University said, though, that Juliano is missing the point and trying to make the school look like tlte villain to the public. 
Said Heisler, "This whole thing has nothing to do with the Univer­sity's attitude toward subway alumni. It is strictly a legal matter, and that's the only reason the whole thing was filed. I know they've tried to promote scholarships, but it's got nothing to do with that." 
Not all subway alumni agree with Juliano. Murphy said the University has done the right thing. 
"I can understand the University's angle," he said. "I do feel that, ifa real t:ffort was made to nationally form a subway alumni association, it would be one of the biggest organizations in the country. Still, the school thinks such a thing could get out of hand at this time and I think they're light." 
Juliano said, "I'm just hoping something comes out where Notre Dame supports us." 
Dame on it. Now there's much greater concern and the whole licensing thing has been set up with Champion. 
As a result of its agreement with Champion, which outbid other com­panies for the contract, anybody who wishes to market Notre Dame­associated products must go through Champion, instead of bot­hering school ofi'icials. Champion, in turn, will get the University's ap­proval. 
"Why should anybody here have to talk to Joe Blow who wants to sell t-shirts?" said Heisler. "They shouldn't, so the University put the whole thing up for bid. We just want to make sure that the people in­volved know what they're doing, that they have a clear marketing operation. We can't have some 'mom-and-pop' operation letting things get out of control. By letting Champion supervise things, we're protecting the interest of the Uni­versity in terms of its name." 
Friday, May 3, 1985 -page 6 

Prince sees purple over spaghetti ad 
Associated Press 

BOSTON -It appears that Prince, the elusive rock star, is seeingpurple because a pasta company named Prince is spoofing their shared name in a television commercial. 
The singer's attorneys have writ­ten an angry letter to the Lowell­based spaghetti maker asking it to drop the ad, which features flashing purple lights, screaming fans and an announcer who promises, "In con­cert-Prince!" 
The camera then pans to a box of noodles, "in concert" with a jar of tomato sauce. 
According to Prince's lawyers, the advertisement "gives the impression that Prince has authorized and/or endorses" Prince spaghetti. They urge the company to stop using the singer's name in a way "that Is likely to confuse the public.'' 
The spaghetti maker refused. 
"We wrote back that we had been using and advertising our name since 1912 and have spent literally millions of dollars doing it," com­pany president joseph Pellegrino said Wednesday. "We figured we could continue doing it and didn't need to justify it." 
Pellegrino, who worked on the Harvard Lampoon humor magazine 25 years ago, said he thinks the com­mercial is "dynamite." 
Prince, back in Minneapolis after a successful concert tour, refuses to discuss the matter with reporters, as do his attorneys in Los Angeles. 
"The normal thing is if you want to use someone's image, you request permission or you pay a lot of money," said Howard Bloom, the singer's publicist, in a telephone in­terview from New York. 
Bloom said the spaghetti com­pany is trying to make Prince look like he doesn't have a sense of humor. The publicist admitted, however, he wasn't exactly sure what the rock star thought about the commercial. 
Stan Freberg, the veteran ad man and comedian who wrote the com­m~rcial, said Tuesday he was surprised by the rock star's reaction. 
. ~AMERICAN 

How you 1tve f CANCER 
may save your life. • SOCIETY~~ 
v u A R N E T 
ORDER NOW TOLL FREE 800-521-7225 In Calif. 800-321-7645 Ex.50 
Receive FREE VUARNET-FRANCE sunglass leash with sunglass order! Meganet offers the complete line of VUARNET sunglasses. Send $1.00 for 
Catalog. Hurry, FREE leash offer limited. 8530 Wilshire Blvd., Suite 309,MEGAOET Beverly Hills, CA 90211 


18461 South Bend Ave (only 5 minutes from campus !) 277-1875 
~i~~~_<>__i_It__t___________________F_rid~~'-M~ay-3,_198-5--pa~ge7 
Democracy in Uruguay will make the world safe 
In a hemisphere that has seen some the the world's worst abuse of human rights run ram­pant since the end of World War II, it is genuinely refreshing to see several nations return to democratic rule in the last few years. While most people are aware of the newly elected democratic governments in Argentina 
Paul Komyatte 
guest column 

and Brazil, the newest member of the democratic club, Uruguay, has been given less coverage by the press. Indeed, it has only been about two months since Julio Sanguinetti was sworn into office as Uruguay's first freely elected president in 12 years. After a reign of military terror, Uruguay is now starting the transition back to civilian rule. 
In making this transition back to democracy, Uruguay has several distinct goals and policies which it hopes to pursue. While most of us know very little of these policies, a group of Notre Dame students had a unique chance this past semester to get some specific insights into Uruguay's new government. As a member of the Notre Dame delegation to the Model Organization ofAmerican States ( OAS) in Washington, D.C., this past March, I spent a week with nine other Notre Dame students representing Uruguay in the Model OAS General Assembly. 
Our week started with a meeting at the office of Roland Visconti, the acting representative ofthe delegation ofUruguay to the OAS. Visconti spent the morning with us and explained Uruguav's positions on major global affairs since its return to democracy. 
The principal goal stressed by Visconti was ameliorating the immense foreign debt compiled by Uruguay during 12 years ofineffi­cient military rule. 
At five billion dollars, Uruguay's foreign debt translates into $l,600 per person, the highest per capita debt in Latin America. With this mammoth debt hanging over the country, Visconti told us that Uruguay's prime foreign policy concern was attaining favorable economic measures to help ease the burden from the debt. It followed from this that Uruguay wished to pursue a "non­interventionist" foreign policy. Because Uruguay's finances are already severely strapped by the foreign debt, money spent on arms would be hard to come by and un­doubtedly would put an immense strain on the economy. 
In a hemisphere already containing 3,000 tanks, 1,100 fighter planes, 740,000 ground forces and a 1981 military budget of S9 bil­lion, Visconti explained that Uruguay would support any policies which de-emphasized military intervention and the build-up ofarms. Uruguay thus fully supports the desires of the Contadora nations in their efforts to bring peace to Central America. With less pre­occupation over military matters, Uruguay would be free to pursue foreign economic policies which could help put its economy back on its feet. 
A second concern voiced by Visconti was Uruguay's support of human rights. Up until the military coup on June 27, 1973 when the army occupied the legislative building and parliament was dissolved, Uruguay was a flourishing democracy. The years after the coup were filled with some of the worst abuses ofhuman rights in the hemisphere. As a small, technologically advanced country, Uruguay became a model of a totalitarian na­tional security state -a country where terror was pervasive and most civilian movements were controlled. 

At the peak ofthe terror, Uruguay had 5,000 people out ofa population of three million in jail for political reasons, a ratio five times as great as that in the Soviet Union. Amnesty In­ternational estimated that one out ofevery 50 Uruguayans was briefly detained for question­ing. Testimony from military officers ind­icated that virtually every person detained was also tortured for the purpose of getting information. 
The impetus for the abuse of human rights and for the military coup itself was a small force of urban guerillas known as "Tupamoros" which surfaced during the economic crises of the late 1960s and early 1970s. Military efforts to eradicate this na­tional liberation movement led to the coup and became the excuse to abuse the human rights of thousands of innocent Urugayans. Visconti told us that Uruguay now has a spe­cial interest in safeguarding human rights. With a brand new chance at democracy, Uruguay never again wants to relive the hor­rors of military dictatorship. 
In charting its new foreign policy course, Uruguay thus is primarily concerned with pursuing efforts to ease its foreign debt while downplaying and discouraging military solu­tions to problems within the hemisphere. If Uruguay is to succeed in its efforts, these goals must be pursued with a vigor. The United States can help by assisting Uruguay in its cause. After beinginvolved in actively training Uruguayan military officers in the art of torture in the 1970s, the United States owes Uruguay some more noble assistance. One such effort would be to lessen the pressure exerted by the International Monetary Fund in forcing countries to carry out the austerity measures to receive loans. Ifthe United States realizes that the huge foreign debt is the fault of a repressive military dictatorship which it supported, it may be easier to extend genuine economic assistance to the civilian govern­ment. 

In addition, the United States could assist Uruguay by pursuing less entangling policies in the troubled region of Central America. Current United States policy towards Nicaragua threatens to engulf the region in a war which would do little good for the people of Uruguay in their pursuit ofa peaceful solu­tion to the conflict. In a hemisphere that is still plagued by nations which flagrantly abuse human rights; Chile, Paraguay, Guatemala and El Salvador are a few; it is in our best interests to support fully the efforts of the new mem­bers of the democratic club of the Americas. As Visconti made it quite clear during our visit to Washington, succeeding at civilian rule means the world to a nation that has suffered painfully under military rule.lfUruguay, along with Brazil and Argentina, can succeed in its transitions to democracy, our hemisphere would be a much more peaceful one. 
Paul Komyatte is a senior government major atNotre Dame. 
Student bookstore was a $10,000 waste of money 
It was at the end of last semester that $10,000 of the students' money was borrowed and another "badly needed" student-run business was opened on campus. A room on the second floor of LaFortune was 
Kevin Becker 
to the point 

procured, some beauty aids and school supplies were bought ancl the Student Saver was born. 
When I heard of the plans to open a store that would provide an alternative to "that ot­her store on campus," I thought the idea might be a bit ridiculous. Granted, the real bookstore on campus cannot compete with K-mart on every article that they sell, but they do try to make the students happy. Because of the fact that the manager of the Hammes Bookstore is a Holy Cross brother and has taken a vow ofpoverty, I doubted that he was driving around campus in a Porche bought with the money that he made from the tube of toothpaste which I bought at the beginning of the year. 
Nevertheless, l decided to go alongwith the idea that the students were tired of shaving their legs and faces with Edge and wanted to switch to Barbasol shaving cream in order to buy themselves another drink at the pop machine with the money they saved. I also liked the idea ofstudents tackling some ofthe authority figures on campus. lf getting this 
Doonesbury 

store was a victory against the administration for this student body, even though I was only in my first semester here, I wanted to be a part ofit. 
Because I wanted to be a good Domer and rub mud in the administration's face when the store succeeded, I went to the store inJanuary to buy a notebook. I did not want those exor­bitantly priced Notre Dame notebooks be­cause I had heard that the logo was costing me about 60 cents each. After I spent a while searching for this student mecca of budget priced items, I walked into the store and was a bit dismayed. The shelves in the cubicle were sparse and even more sparsely filled. The stu­dent store only had a few of the essential stu­dent items I needed so I stocked up on some and purchased a few notebooks. These notebooks did not say Notre Dame -only Mead, but they were on sale for 65 cents. I could not pass up that deal. 
All was going very well until I walked into the real bookstore on campus and discovered something very funny. On the first aisle of the store in the section of school supplies were the same notebooks I had just bought in the Student Saver. They were the same except for their price tags which read 49 cents. By the look ofthings I realized that the Student Saver that was supposed to be saving me money ac­tually cost me more money than the real bookstore would have. Some may claim that I am referring to only one item overpriced in the student store. However, when the mem­bers of student government researched the overpricing in the bookstore, they did almost the same kind ofcomparison. 
Now after giving the store a semester's chance, I'm not so sure that the store was opened in the best interest ofall the students. The Student 'Saver' has beenlosing money this semester and students haven't been support­ing it after all. 
At the end oflast year, student government conducted a price survey among the real bookstore and various other stores (such as K-mart, Osco's, and others) and found that the bookstore's prices were sometimes times hig­her than these other stores were for beauty items and school supplies. What those who conducted the comparison failed to mention was that the products they compared from these other stores were of substantially less quality than those at the bookstore. The stu­dent government members who conducted this survey compared apples to oranges and attempted to get the students to go along with them. 
In direct contrast to the student govern­ment survey, there was a survey taken by The Observer in 1982 that concluded, "The Notre Dame Bookstore may not have prices like K­mart, but the prices are generally no higher and often less than prices charged at other col­lege bookstores.' It seems mighty funny that the bookstore could be praised one year by an objective group ofstudents and then be called a rip-off by another group of students with political ambitions just two years later. 
This year, no one bothered to take the side of the bookstore. No one bothered to remem­ber that the bookstore does not have the ability to buy in the bulk oflarge chain stores and therefore cannot price their items as low. 
Garry Trudeau 

Pt5P~ {5 rq;c&NT /Je­a/~, lff.Mf6HTY fXJL/AI< IA/.45 AGAIN 7!13 'j(X¥i?C& a=MANYIIMfElJfli5CUS­SICW5 AT 7Ht &aJNOMIC:. 
• 5UMMIT M!3&TING / ?WAY.. 

Also, no one ever has bothered to note that the bookstore actually loses money on the textbooks it sells. That is a fact that surprises many. 
The student representatives who got this store pushed through went about it in a clever way. They administered a survey with slanted wording to students asking them ifthey would support a student-run store on campus that sold items cheaper than the bookstore did. 
What fool would say no to that question? 
These members also claimed that a great deal ofstudents are not brand conscious as the bookstore claims. After the preliminary work was done, they made a big clamor to enlist the students on their side and went off to 'war' against the administration. When the ad­ministration gave in to these campus politicians, everyone claimed a victory for the students. Could it have been possible that the administration realized that this store would be a failure and decided to let the students find out that they had been fooled later? 
I believe that later is now. This is just anot­her case of the students being manipulated by overambitious others. $10,000 of our money went into the political campaign of student politicians. Now that a new administration has taken over, let it be known that they have not been elected to walk on the students anymore. They are in their positions to serve us, and we will not have it any other way. 
Kevin Becker is a freshman at Notre Dame and is an assistant Viewpoint editor of Tbe Observer. 
Quote of the day 
"The heart has its reasons which reason knows nothing of." 
-Blaise Pascal 

• 
~ite~~_()__i_ll__t_________________
F_rid-ay,_Ma-y3_,1_98_5_p_age-8 
LaFortune renovations will not improve ND life 
I recently discovered that, as part of the proposed conversion of LaFortune into a real "student center," the Nazz, Darby's Place and Studio J were schedult:d for "renovation," translate removal, during the summer. I 
Charles Boudreaux only solitaire 
bdit:ve that the removal of these three campus social areas is the wrong way to go about an otherwise healthy renovation. 
The issue ofstudy space seems ironic; after all, who worries about study space in a stu­dent center? Nevertheless, the Nazz remains the only late-night study area on campus besides dormitory study lounges. Such a generic study space on campus is necessary. The Nazz is the only late-night study location on campus for off-campus students; in terms ofconvenience and security, it is the only spot for on-campus and off-campus students to study together. I believe that it is also valid to point out that students study better in dif­ferent environments and at different hours. Just as some students prefer the library to the study lounge, so do some prefer the quiet hub­bub and the opportunity to get a little slt:ep between tasks on one of the Nazz's couches. 
lbe really frightening issue, however, is that of administration involvement in the last bastion of the student's sdfhood: how he or she studies. Lee Broussard indicated that, believing a student center should be more ofa social area, the administration wants to dis­courage late-night studying in the Nazz. My first problem with this "social emphasis" is lack of clarity. Joni Neal was quoted Tuesday as saying "A lot ofthought went into the plans, by administrators and architects," and "I think students will be surprised." As one of these students, I am frankly puzzled. After all, isn't this going to be a "student" center? I do not recall any surveys being taken on what we as students thought of the reconstruction plans. Compounding this unusual state of affairs is that these "plans" had not been publicized un­til bidding on the renovations had already begun. It almost seems to have been some sort ofroyal boon to let the students know ofwhat "their" student center will consist. Frankly, I would rather not be "surprised" by my stu­dent center; I would vastly preler to have a share in the plans myself. 
My second problem is the nasty thought that the University may be attempting to reg­ulate the way in which we study. The Student Activities Board has offered no definitive plan for an alternate late-night study space, al­though a lot ofrumors have been publicized. I believe that it is irresponsible for the Nazz to be closed without a reliable alternate loca­tion. This conclusion is ofcourse based on the idea that the administration is merely dis­couraging late-night study in tht: Nazz; if the administration is discouraging late-night study as a whole, the issue becomes one of rights rather than one of inconvenience and lack offoresight. 

As to Broussard's claim that there is "really no reason" to maintain Darby's as a late-night snack supplier, I find this claim error-filled for a number of reasons. Broussard claims that dorm foodsales will take care ofstudents' culi­nary needs. He seems to have forgotten that neither dorm foodsales outlets nor the Huddle stay open past one o'clock and that off-campus students have no access to ven­ding machines after that time. In addition, Darby's is a student-run concern; after such a long, hard fight to initiate a student-run store on campus and to make it a successful busi­ness, I find it ironic that Student Activities is closing a successful business to allow the Uni­versity to put in a "sweet shop" in its place. ·why not simply extend Darby's hours and/or expand its line ofwares? 
My final difficulty with this renovation is the loss of the Nazz as a location in which to expose campus talent, showcased so ad­mirably in the recent Nazz Music Competi­tion, during which, incidentally, the Nazz was packed. I find it a sad reality that what could have been such a successful social alternative is being sacrificed for a barber shop and a travel agency. Again, the ether contains whispers of some sort of combined recrea­tional space. Chautauqua's dance floor and the Nazz can be combined -think of the spacious­ness and the acoustics. This alternative, ifit is indeed an alternative, seems to be a poor one. Granted, the Nazz is not the most wonderful space in which to sing; it carries more of the feeling of the rathskdlt:r than the stage. The answer, however, is not to attempt to lt:t one social space do two jobs; with dances, plays and movies, the Nazz will almost surely become only an occasional source of enter­tainment, courtesy of all this new "social space." 
It seems ironic that the Hall Presidents' Council has put such an effort into the travd­ing "Blow Off For Awhile" club, when this al­ternative, including rehearsal space, stage, lights, sound system and snacks, has existed for years in the basement of LaFortune. It is ironic that the students seem to be the group that is most unaware of what "their" student center is to contain. It is ironic as wdl as naive that Lee Broussard assumes the University in­tends to provide late-night study space. I embrace the construction of a useful, en­joyable student center; however, I also embrace the need for student opinion in such construction-or reconstruction. I request eit­her that the Nazz, Darby's and Studio J be left as they are or that some definite replacement for each of these be provided. I hope that the Student Activities Board asks around before they constuct a student center that may not serve all of the needs of the students it is in­tended to serve. 
Charles Boudreaux is a junior in the Program ofLiberal Studies and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Students want more contact with ND professors 
One of the more subtle inroads on the Notre Dame campus today is the lack of professor commitment to teaching. In the academic manual contained in the faculty handbook it is stated that, "the University of Notre Dame, as an institution of higher learn­ing, has two primary aims: to share existing 
Neal Ungar 

guest column 
knowledge with students and to engage in research in opening new areas ofknowledge." It is an instructor's inherent obligation to place students at the top ofhis priorities. 
Why should the students be ranked as the first priority? Today's students are the world's most precious resource. 
What evidence is there that a lack of com­mittment exists? The results ofa recent survey I conducted of I00 studentS revealed some interesting facts about student/Instructor relationships. 80 percent of the students polled felt that student/instructor rdation­ships could be improved. This is not a new concern among the students at Notre Dame. I have heard it mentioned quite often in the past two years. Evidence of the students' wil­lingness to contribute to improving these rdationships is shown by the fact that 68 per­cent favored a requirement that would ask in­structors to meet at least once a semester with each student in the class. For larger classes this may well be an impossibility, but it does indicate that the students are open to ideas that would improve existing conditions. 
80 percent of those responding percieve the possibility for improved stu­dent/instructor relationships. If communica­tion is essential to teaching, then the educational environment is not as open as it could be. 
Something is wrong when 26 percent of those responding replied they would be reluctant to contact their instructors for outside help ifthey needed it. 
Many students are intimidated by their in­structors. They feel the professors might think less of them if they ask a question on a matter that seems simple and straightf01ward. Profes­sors are not always around when students need them most. These negativt~ attitudes, be they perceived or real, could be counteracted by a greater commitment by professors to break down the needless communication bar­riers and to provide more time for their stu­dents. 
Another striking statistic is that 22 percent of the students feel instructors do not care about student academic welfare, and another 29 percent were not sure what their profes­
. sors belief. Many students feel most instruc­tors place their priorities elsewhere ­research, outside job-related interests and building prestige among peers. Perhaps the professors do care, but they overlook the im­portance of communicating this to their stu­dents. 
I have heard that instruct01·s sit in their offices for hours on end with no one dropping in to ask them any questions. Perhaps they should examine ifthey have taken the time in class to stress that they welcome questions and encourage students to stop in, thereby creating a sincere open door policy. Ifprofes­sors would spend a little more time in their offices, they might have more time to work on the research that is entailed by their depart­ments, as well as the chance to help students. 
Avoid the mistaken impression that I wish to abolish all research, or that I am suggesting that all professors are currently ignoring their students to work on research only. The professors are charged with the academic well-being of their students. A highly motivated instructor, who cares about the stu­dents, can do more for a student than a volume of textbooks. Each member of the faculty has a priority list whether he cares to admit it or not. Each day professors exemplify through their actions what is important in their lives. Student welfare should be the top priority. 

There is some indication that professors do not have the complete freedom to choose the amount of time they must spend on research. Although there are no express requirements for the quantity or quality ofresearch work to be completed by each professor, a great amount of pressure is exerted by the ad­ministration and the department chairmen to produce adequate research. This research, if published or recognized in some manner by the academic world, will enhance the name of the University and the reputation ofits author. These accomplishments may be great for the prestige of the University and the individual author, but their overall effect will be detrimental to the University if the students are neglected. 
The basic theory that research will enable professors to gain a deeper understanding of their field ofexpertise, which they will then in turn pass on to their students, will not hold if too much time is devoted to research. Profes­sors who do not have the time to ensure that their students are comprehending their course material are <lisregarding their first priority. If these implied requirements do contribute to the lack of teacher committ­ment to the students then the administration 
and the department would be wise to ob­jectively analyze these implied research re­quirements and their effect on the faculty and the students. A widely recognized university name is important, but not ififcomes at such great expense. All this effort to enhance the Notre Dame name by one or two more percentage points in some meaningless poll is not worth the trade-off. 
I am certain that there are many solutions waiting in the wings. Perhaps a requirement that every instructor meet individually with each student in the class. Perhaps the ad­ministration could take part through greater emphasis on teaching ability and teacher com­mittment to students in their selection of in­structors. An effort by professors to be around more and a sincere invitation for students to participate would definitely be a step in the right direction. 
It is time to work together to create a better atmosphere, and an even more exciting education environment. To those professors already dedicated to helping students, I ap­plaud your efforts. Notre Dame needs more like you. To the rest of the administration and the faculty I believe it is time for you to reassess your priorities. I challenge the faculty,administration and the students to take the steps necessary to create a better en­vironment on this campus. Put students, not status and research, at the top ofyour priority list. Priority and communication -two keys that can help unlock the door to a better Uni­versity. 
Neal Ungar is a senior accounting major atNotre Dame. 

Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Ed1tor-m Ch1el Sarah E. Ham1lton Busmess Manager Dav1d Stephen•tch Manag1ng Ed1tor Amy Stephan AC/veriiSJng Manager Anne Culligan
The Observer ts the mdependent newpaper publtshed by the students of the 
News Ed1tor. Ke•th Harnson Jr. Controller. Bill H•ghducheck
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Samt Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
News Ed1tor Dan McCullough Systems Manager. Mark B Johnson
ref:ect the polictes of the admmtstrat1on of either institution. The news is reported as 
Sam/ Mary's Execultve EC/1/or Theresa Gua,no Product1on Manager John A Men nell 
accurately and as ob1ect1vely as possible. Unsigned ed1torials represent the opinion 
Spor"ts Ed1tor Jeff Blumb 
of a maJOrity of the Ed1tonal Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column 
Accent Ed1tor Mary Healy 
present the v1ews of the~r authors. Column space IS available to all members of the V1ewpo1nt Ed1tor . Joe Murphy 
commun•ty. and the free expreSSIOn of vary1ng opm1ons on campus, through letters, Photography Edrtor Peter C laches 
IS f::IICOUraged Copy Ch•el Frank L1p0 Founded November 3, 1966 


'We Won't Pay' is worth the price 

Accent 
For whom the bells toll: you 
Lisa Young 
features staff writer 
F
C' our times an hour, nearly 400 times a week, and over 60,000 times before you graduate, the bells ofSacred Heart will toll. Whether a helpful reminder that you are late to your theology class or an annoy­ing hindrance as you try to sleep in Sorin, the bells are a special Notre Dame tradition. 
According to Anthony Szakaly, a graduate student and assistant sacristan at Sacred Heart, the bells are part of the carillon which is "definitely recognized as the oldest in North America." This allows Notre Dame to belong to the Guild of North American Carilloners. 
Notre Dame's carillon consists of 23 bells, each ofwhich are elaborately engraved and in­dividually named. They were blessed by the Archbishop Purcell ofCincinnati. 
A carillon is a set offixed bells sounded by striking with hammers operated either from a keyboard or mechanically. 
According to Szakaly, "They were cast in 1855 in LeMans, France by the Bollee ... and brought over in 1856. They were installed in the old tower that was built in front of the old church." The bells are untuned bells because they were not tuned when cast as are modern bells. 
In addition to the actual carillon 
is the bell named in honor ofSt. 
Anthony de Padua. It was cast in 1867 with money donated from various South Bend families, such as the Studebakers and Coquillards. Cast into the bell are the names of all of the donors. According to the company that assists in the upkeep of the bells, it would cost more today for the engraving than for the entire bell. "At the time it was in­stalled, it was the largest bell in the United States," notes Szakaly. 
This bell was originally free standing. It took 12 men to ring and coutd be heard for 20 miles. It was situated on a large wooden platform and as it was rung, six of the men would be lifted off the ground as the other 6 pulled. It is no longer free standing and is rung by ham­mers. 
Most churches can't afford bells and use tapes, but every toll that comes from Sacred Heart is actually a bell. The bells are rung many different ways. The choir loft keyboard plays a few ofthe bells electronically. Also located in the choir loft is the player piano system. Songs are played off a roll by which electric sensors trigger the hammer that hits the bells. This device can be set on a timer. According to Brother Dennis Meyers, the sacris­tan at Sacred Heart, "the player piano is programmed for Marian hymns that are played during foot-

Photos by Pete Laches 
ball weekends." During the 
Christmas season, carols are played 
in the same manner. 
As steep, narrow staircases wind up inside the steeple, the bell sys­tem is seen in individual levels. St. Anthony's bell is on the first level. A few of the massive ropes remain from when the bell was rung by hand. Along one beam are twelve hooks for the cloaks of the men who rang the bell. One loud speaker remains from the time of Knute Rockne's funeral. 
Above the big bell is the 23 bells of the carillon. Further up is the original keyboard that was built in 1855 and restored a few years ago. It is played much like a piano, but the keys must be hit much harder to make the bell clappers move. The wall of this room is covered with names and dates ofpeople who have played the carillon. 
Above this level is the "bell works" which keep the time of the bells. The system was installed in 1930 and originally run by pen­dulum. It is now run by electricity and does not function during loss of power. The motor for the bell timer had to be rebuilt earlier this year and the project took nearly three months. "The bell works are com­pletely separate from the clock face, and it is hard to get them in sync." Above the clock face is the top of the steeple -the highest point on campus. 
The bells are rung every quarter hour until I 0 p.m. At five minutes before the hours of6 a.m., I2 noon and 6 p.m. the bells are rung in keeping with the tradition of the Angelus. In the past, the sound of these bells marked a time to stop work and offer a few minutes of prayer. The bells are also rung at 
5: I 5 Saturday vigil mass, I 0:30 a.m. "Smells and Bells" mass, and after the I2:I5 mass. 
The St. Anthony bell is rung to mark each hour. Other than the hour tolling, it is rung only in the Christmas-Easter octave, for ordina­tions, final vows and professions, and large University functions. 
There is nohunchback ofNotre Dame in the tower ofSacred Heart Church tolling the bells, but nonetheless, the tradition of the chimes continues. Next time you're on the quad, take a minute to enjoy the bells -and countdown to graduation. 

Above, the familiar bell tower ofSacred Heart Church. Below, the recently restored original kefboard located in the bell tower. At left, some ofthe bells that comprise the carillon. 

Special to the Observer 

W
hat do you get when you mix "I Love Lucy"-type comedy with political humor and a setting in contemporary Milan? The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre's final produc­tion ofthe season, "We Won't Pay! We Won't Pay!" Written by one ofItaly's most celebrated playwrights, Dario Fo, the zany political comedy has its roots in the commedia dell'arte tradition ofearly Italian comedy. 
Monica Smith portrays An­tonia, a housewife fed up with inflationary supermarket prices, who decides along with her friend Margherita (Anne Borgman) that they simply aren't going to take it anymore. 

Problems are compoumte<l when the two women try to conceal their crazy escapades from their husbands Giovanni (Jack Blakey) and Luigi (Michael Grant). However, the men un­wittingly become involved in their wives' scam. 
Mark Pilkinton, chairman of Notre Dame's communication and theatre department, will direct the play, to be performed in O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's. Performances are scheduled for tonight, tomorrow night, and May I6 and I7 at 8 
p.m. There will also be a matinee performance on this Sunday at 2:30p.m. Tickets, at $3, may be purchased at the door or reserved by calling the box office at 284-4626. 

Accent 
Hidden talents ofjanitor draw attention 
Margaret McCabe 
assistant accent editor 
I
t doesn't seem likely that hands that push a broom or empty trash during the day would later pick up a pencil and draw with such artistic precision and accuracy that the result is a photo-like picture. 
But in his spare time, Albert Summerlin, a janitor at Decio Faculty Hall, does exactly that. His works ofart have recently gained him much recognition by faculty members who have offices in the building. 
According to Summerlin, who 
was horn and raised in Cincinnati, 
Ohio, he's been drawing since a 
very early age. "As a kid, I used to 
ride the bus and watch people -try 
to sec how shadows fell on faces. 
When I'd get home I'd try to 
remember what I saw and draw it 
out." 
It appears as though Summerlin 
has taught himself everything he 
knows and to a great exte.-u this is 
true. But thc: artist admits, "Others 
have had input to my talent." 
Summt·rlin, who has been blind 
in one eye since an accident a few 
years ago, was able to attend three 
art classes at Ivy Tech on a grant 
from the Rehabilitation for the 
Blind Center, which payed for half 
of the tuition. According to Sum­
merlin, "the government payed for 
the other half hut when Reagan 
made cuts, I couldn't afford to go 
anymore." 
The classes were for commercial 
art, a field in which Summerlin 
hoped to start his own business. 
The artist does do some sign paint­
ing but the classes were not directly 
applicable to the type ofdrawing he 
excels in. lbey were instrumental, 
however, in teaching him things 
about figures and perspectives that 
he could apply to his drawings. 
Summerlin's visual handicap does 
effect depth perception, which is 
aided by bifocals and magnifying 
glasses. "I draw many works from 
memory," he adds. 

Most ofSummerlin's recent drawings have been drawn from photographs. "I used to be afraid to get into darker shades," says Sum­merlin. "All my pictures were real light. So I started drawing from photographs because then I'd have to use the different tints and tones." 
lbe materials Summerlin uses are simple; usually he uses a regular lead pencil but will add water colors, colored pencils, pastels or oils ifrequested. His subjects of interest are not limited, as a glance through his portfolio reveals. "I love any kind ofart," he says. "I hate to be confined to one form." Sum­merlin enjoys working with live models on occasion and would like to start drawing some animals, especially horses. 
,,As a kid, I used to ride the bus and watch people -try to see how the shad­ows fell on faces. " 
Adrawing ofa Polynesian woman is Summerlin's personal favorite among his drawings. "It was most difficult," is the reason he gives for favoring the piece. "I was going to give up two or three times but it was the one time I decided I wouldn't be a quitter," he said. "Sometimes I would get lost in the lines but as a former teacher says, that's when you have to regroup, find a line and follow it." 
Summerlin will be revealing his collection in an exhibit to be held in September at the Colfax Cultural 



Center. Summerlin believes, "right now, I need more input and 
Albert Summerlin sits among some ofhis drawings, two of which were prize winners in a local art contest. Below,
critique from people. I need 
two ofSummerlin's works; at left, a drawing ofProfessor Denis Goulet and at right, an old indian. 
someone to show me my mistakes so that I can correct them." 
Prince comes out of 'Rain' with new album 


Don Seymour 
Record review 
I
f you arc expecting Prince's new album to be: another Purple Rain, you are going to be disappointed. 
Around the World in a Day hit the stores last week. Obviously, it sold well. Upon first listening, however, it fosters great dismay. 
The album's eclectic, sparse, spiritual songs and his "We Are the World" contribution, seem to ind­icate a change in artistic direction. 'Ibis is also suggested by his recent retirement. 
Prince mixes diverse types of music ranging from the oriental­flavored title track, the mellow piano-jazz of"Condition of the Heart," the rap-influenced "Tamborine" and "America," and the more familiar pop-dance sound of"Rao;pberry Beret." 
lbt.· trouble with most of the songs is their lack of melody. Many of the tunes have entire verses sung over one sustained note, kind oflike Gregorian chant. Plus, Prince's vocal performances, known to be rough and grating in the past, have reached the point of unappealing. He seems to purposely make his voice irritating, and when coupled with high-pitched, screeching har­mony (as is often the case on this album), he makes the songs almost unbearable to listen to. 

'Ibere are some bright spots, though. "Raspberry Beret," the most accesible cut on the album and a sure hit, sounds like the familiar Prince. Like "Little Red Corvette," the song takes a red, commonplace object and turns it into a sexual symbol. This ditty and "Temptation," the only other sexy song on the album, contain highly suggestive but not obscene lyrics, a trend that began in Prince's music on Purple Rain. 
"Paisely Park," introduces us to a new, recurrent theme in Prince's music. The music is more bared down than ever, and the lyrics search for a mystical state ofhappi­ness. This theme recurs in "Temptation," "The Ladder" and "Around the World in a Day." Of these, the latter two were co­written by Prince's father,John Nelson. 
Furthering the mystery, five of the album's nine songs were recorded at a studio called Paisley Park, and, in his announcement of 
his retirement, Prince explained he 
wanted to search for "the ladder." 
What happened to Prince? Either he had an intensely religious ex­perience or he is engaging in more mysterious image-making. It would seem the former is true because in "Paisley Park" he sings of"profound innt:r peace," and in "The Ladder" he refers to "salvation of the soul." 
The song "Temptation" may rev<:al the secret. In the song, Prince gloats over his weaknesses ­temptation, sex, lust; however, the song falls into a seeming dialogue between God and the singer. 
God says, "You have to want it for the right reasons." Prince says he does. 
God replies, "You don't. Now die!" Prince screams his repen­tance, then sings the song's last line, "Temptation is useless; love is more important then sex." 
It would seem that Prince has undergone a change in his personal convictions that vastly affects his music. 
Overall, "Raspberry Beret" and "Paisley Park" are accessible and should be hits. After repeated listen­ings, the others become more ac­ceptable, especially the title song and "Condition ofthe Heart." But in the end, this is an art album -a moving personal statement that leaves everyone but the artist dis­satisfied. 



--~ ~------------~------­

Friday, May 3, 1985-page 10 -11 
A community of caring exists at Notre Dame 





Theatre 
•You wont want to miss SAB's final 
•The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's College feature at the Engineering Auditorium this 
Theatre will present We Won't Pay. We weekend. Richard Gere and Debra Won't Pay directed by Dario Fo. The Winger star in An Officer and a showings are at 8 p.m. tonight and Satur­
Gentleman, the unforgettable story ofa day night at O'Laughlin Auditorium. man who wants to be an officer and a 
Sunday this play will be presented again at woman who wants to marry one. Their 
2:30p.m. Tickets, 53 for adults and 52.50 dreams may clash -or the love they have 
for students, can be picked up at Saint for each other may be strong enough to 
Mary's College Box Office. make both dreams come true(sigh). Find out what happens tonight or Saturday night at 7, 9:15 and 11:30 for $1.50 in the Engineering Auditorium. 
•L'Argent will be shown in the Annen­berg Auditorium Saturday night for S2.50. 
Misc. 

This movie traces the link between 
C I Art ~ ·1-.Rill~:------~~.:.J~~
money and evil through a single dishonest L-----------'-------' preparing to hold a .eggae music festival act that affects dozens ofpeople. Bresson on Saturday and all profits will be donated of France directs this movie with his usual •Photographica Swap Meet--Buy. Sell •Opening tonight will be Saint Mary's 
to Ethiopia. The event, "Reggae for Et­assurance and economy, using extreme and trade everything photographic at this College Student Exhibition at the Moreau 
hiopia," is part ofan effort to pool the ellipses, the increasing fragmentation of event to be held in Convention Hall B of Gallery. Special arrangements can be resources of this community and help the events, and the falling away ofcharacters the .entury Center from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. made to see the displays by calling the starving millions in Ethiopia.
to signify the increasing disorientaton ofa Tickets are S2.50 at the door. For more gallery at 284-4655. 
The concert will feature Dallol Reggaederar.ged world. information call259-2968. 
Band, a group from Ethiopia whose enticing beat will keep you moving. Join the "rally"and come to this unique event It's sure to add an exciting and 
colorful touch to your weekend. Tickets are on sale at Rock-du-Lac Record Store in Lafortune for 54. 
[ Nazz 
•Tonight at the Nazz the Notre Dame <llapel Choir will present its variety show from 8:30 to 11. At Chautauqua, it's Air Force ROTC Skit Night from 6 to 9, 
Mass 
followed by a dance sponsored by the Progressive Musik Club. Admission to the dance, which begins at 10, is U for The celebrants for Mass at Sacred Heart 
non-club members. 
Church this weekend will be: 
•Tomorrow night at the Nazz Peter 
FatherJohn Kurtzke at 5:15 p.m. 
Abowd will present "Something Special," (Saturday night vigil). 
an original music show, from 8 to 9:30. At Father Andre Leveille at 9 a.m.
!

1O,Jeflrey York and his band .( 
Father Robert Kennedy at 10:30 a.m. DiGiovanna will play. Dallal, an Ethiopian Reggae band that will perform Saturday at Stepan Courts. Father Stephen Gibson at 12:15 p.m. 
Rev. Robert 
Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
I 
've been reading a novel called "Bang the Drum Slowly," which is about baseball and dying. Bruce, this big, slow-witted baseball player from the South, gets Hodgkin's disease. 
His teammate Henry Wiggen watches over Bruce from the time he is diagnosed at Mayo Clinic in january, through the winter months when he is home with his family. Then he supports Bruce through spring practice and the long sum­mer games until the pennant race in October when Bruce, brought low by the sickness, goes home with his father to die. 
Henry protects Bruce by keeping 
his illness a secret from the 
manager, who might fire him, and 
from the other players, who might 
tell the manager. He fights most of 
Bruce's battles for him, arguing 
with the members of the team to lay 
off the heavy-handed kidding to 
which Bruce, as a loner, is exposed. 
By late summer, when Bruce's 
physical condition becomes known 
to the team, the players treat him 
with consideration and respect. 
Bruce, responding to the shows of 
kindness, improves his playing, and 
helps his team win the pennant. 
It's a novel about friendship as a 
group of men learn, one by one, 
that a teammate is dying. The aut­
hor, Mark Harris, in writing about 
baseball, has created a world where 
the universal truths come home to 
us with the forcefulness ofan argu­
ment. 

Communities ofcaring exist everywhere: in dugouts and locker rooms; in Vietnam or the playing fields ofEton. Heads get knocked together in daily skirmishes. Dog eats dog on general principle. But, as long as grace stays alive, there will always be decent chaps reach­ing down to help a brother. A G.l. saves his buddies by throwing him­selfon an exploding grenade. A bum will sell his shoes to help his pal get a bed in a flop house away from the killing winter cold. 
In New York, where I spend the summer, danger follows you through the streets at midnight. Once, walking from midtown to the Village on 9th avenue, I saw a drunk lurching toward me with an upraised beer bottle poised at my head. A brother, with a word, stopped him. I just kept on walking, wondering how close I had come to being a victim. I'm sure I have been marked out many times as a poten­tial target for violence. It's one of the risks you take ifyou live in the city. The healthiest attitude is to keep yourselffree offear. 
Last night, I walked from 12 to 2 
a.m. on the Notre Dame campus, confident that nobody was out to cause trouble for me or for my dog, Darby O'Gill II. I met Greg, a security guard, looking for some townies who were roaming the campus, but I didn't feel endan­gered by them. I spent 20 minutes at the Grotto, watching the students who come to pray; I prayed for them, me, the dog, and all of us. A campus where the night people are lighting candles through the hours ofdarkness is a pretty good place to live. 
Rough and tumble goes on here in the way we talk to one another, because we're no different from the rest of mankind, but moral miracles are happening all the time. 
All ofus go through days when we feel we're not loved enough. The hearts which God created to be lovingly used are always hungry for attention and recognition. Student complaints about administrative neglect become a group activity which grows feverish as the spring advances. Lately, everyone from the Freshmen to the Seniors have raised the battle cry: "Notre Dame doesn't respect us enough!" I wonder if they think priests took a vow to hate and hurt young people. 
At the time ofVietnam, a student from Michigan came to see me, a truly disenchanted fellow with hair to his shoulders. He was on bad terms with his parents, angry with them for having had 11 children. "My father isn't a father," he com­plained, "he's the manager ofa mob scene in a supermarket. The neigh­bors laugh at the couple for having so many kids, and insist that it's impossible to bring them up properly. Then the couple has to show the neighbors that they are wrong. Ifone of the kids turns out to be a freak, like me, he's an embar­rassment that the family wants to hide, and gets kicked out of the house. I told my parents: 'I'm sorry, folks, but I'm not going to spend my life making the two ofyou a dynas­tic pair like joe and Rose Kennedy.'" 
Parents oflarge families should be able to know that there's love enough to go around, and that the 
~ 

one who gets the lion's share is the one who, at that moment, needs it most. Notre Dame is not Utopia, but neither are the administrators con­tending for the joe and Rose Ken­nedyaward. 
As in every family, there are balancing acts going on; otherwise, the roofwould fly off. Students do get into trouble, with everything beautiful that youth is famous for ruined in a careless weekend. A certain amount of time is spent in fooling around while you're growing up. Nobody should be -asked to be the willing sponsor of some of the kinds of that fooling around, if it means that later he will have to make phone calls explain­ing death, accidents, jail sentences, academic failure or unwanted mar­riages. 
Some of the seniors can graduate believing in a lie, if they wish to. Some of the freshmen can spend the summer regretting the official in­sensitivity on an otherwise nice college campus. But it's not true that at Notre Dame, nobody cares what the students think. Staff people are hired to work full time at caring what the students think. It's also part oftheir lonely jobs to be misunderstood by the students to whom they have said an unqualified ~·no." Administrators are no more cold hearted in the logic of their refusals than parents are when they lay down the house rules. 
These are tired arguments from an on-going debate. Someone less traditional than me must have fresh ideas on whether to renegotiate the status quo. 
As the year ends, it seems to me, the list ofphysically fallen is sober­ing. A respected teacher falls sud­denly. A student is struck down by a frightening illness. A beloved priest spends weeks ofpain in a sickroom away from his valuable work. We bang the drum slowly, and play the fife lowly, for the casualities that have entered heaven this year. 
We cheapen the struggle ofour common life if we treat it like some game ofthe good guys versus the bad guys; nobody comes here to play the villain. We're all equally fragile and equally valuable, equally wise and equally foolish. We are not, however, all equally young or equally old. As the saying goes: if youth only knew, if age only could! All ofus are in need ofdaily for­givenness. All ofus have self-doubts. All have times when we weep for ourselves. 
On this boys' game ofa campus, we can learn the universal lessons: ofambition and failure; oflove, beauty, hope, and injustice. Notre Dame is just as rough and wonder­ful as any real world, where everyone gets treated like Rodney Dangerfield, that archetypal anti­hero, who will go to his grave get­ting no respect. Only here, in the Catholic Olympics, you don't have one foot in the grave before they give you a chance to shine for all you're worth. Ifit were otherwise, Father Sorin and the brothers should have stayed in France. 
Goodbye and God bless. It's been an honor to have you here. Ifyou're in New York in june,july, or August, look me up at St. joseph's Church on 6th avenue in Green­wich Village. The phone number is 212-741-1274. Darby O'Gill II says to look him up in Newjersey. He says you can get his summer num­ber from me. 

, 
The Observer Friday, May 3, 1985 -page 12 
WATERBEDS WATERBEDS 

• 
~ ~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ ~ ~ 
~ ~ ~ 
~ 
t 
~ 
~ ~ ~ 
~ ~ 
•~ 
·­
~ ' 
• 
~ 
t 
f 
I ' 
---------......·sun.12·fY.._ .. 


' . ,.,.,.--"'~ 
OVER 50 
LOCAL 
STORES 
TO 

• 
Many Styles On Display 

• 
Special Orders 


• 
Financing/Delivery Available 


MICHIANA'S 
Fashion

"TOUCH ON 
50%
LARGEST 
Throw

LAMPS" 
Oak 

Reg. 5 109-5 129 
Pillows 
Collection 
OFF

SUPER SALE 
40%

s4g11s.ssges
40-60% 
OFF 
OFF 
JEWELRY 
GOLD, SILVER DIAMONDS, RUBIES EMERALDS & MORE 
50% 
OFF 
GRAND FATHER CLOCKS 

sagg 

COMPUTERS I.B.M. EPSON MORE SAVE$$$$$$ 

COLOR T.V.'S AT SUPER LOW PRICES LOWEST 
PRICE 
EVER 
FROM WATERBEDS WATERBEDS WATERBEDS 
LEATHER JACKETS 

CLOTHING 
JORDACHE, LEE, LEVI CALVIN KLEIN 
FROM 

$1399 

ee 

SHOES  
MEN'S  WOMEN'S  SPORTING  
Stacey Adams  Sporto  Nike  
Florsheim  Candies  Adidas  
Dexter  Hush Puppies  New Balance  
Regal  Browse Abouts  Pony  
Giorgio Brutini  Naturalizer  Puma  

S3goo SLASHED PIA~ OS 
Instant Financing Available 
CAMERAS 

STEREO 
HARMAN/KARDON
50% 

PIONEER CONCORD
_usft~ICE 

CRAIG JENSEN-&MORE 
-TO 
MICROWAVES 

50% OFF
WASHERS DRYERS PRICES 
Satellite Dishes 
Large Variety To Choose From 
MUCH 
MUCH MORE! 

Friday, May 3, 1985-page 13
The Observer 
The Obsen•er Notre Dame office. located on tht: third floor of LaFortune Studem Center, accepts classified advenising from') a.m. until 4 p.m.. Monday through Friday. The Obsert•er Saim Mary's officl'. lm:ated on the third floor of Haggar Collegt: Cemer, accepts dassifieds from 12:.~0 p.m. until 3 p.m.. Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for nt:xt-day classifieds is 5 p.m. All classifit:ds must he prepaid. either in person or hy mail. Charge i~ I 0 ~·ents per five charac­
Classifieds 
ters er day. 
NOTICES 

TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8997 
WORDPROCESSING-2n-6045. 
Wordproceaalng and Typing 272-8827 

PRO-TYPE Over 14 yrs. experience typing student papers, resumes, and dis­sertations 2n·5833. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
GOVERNMENT HOME from $1 (U repelr). Al•o delinquent tax property. 
C.ll 805-687-6000 Ext. GH-8834 for ln­formellon. 
Be Smart' Beat the rush I Sell your books for $$. Books bought M-F Pandora's Books, 937 South Bend Ave (I block lrom Corby's). 
ATIENTION ATIENTION!! SAB REFRIGERATOR RETURN SUNDAY, MAY 5, 1-4PM STEPAN CENTER. REFRIGERATORS MUST BE CLEANED AND THAWED BEFORE DEPOSIT WILL BE RETURNED. 
ATIENTION: Senior is graduating and needs roomates to live in CHICAGO Call anytime: CHAPIN at 1589 
LONG ISLAND CLUB TRUCK!! LONG ISLAND CLUB TRUCK!! LONG ISLAND CLUB TRUCK!! Yes, there Will be a baggage truck going to Long Island!!!!!! The truck Will be loading on Sunday, be­hind the Admin Biding starling at12 noon and ending a13PM. Info will be in the mail eariy next week. LONG ISLAND CLUB TRUCK!! LONG ISLAND CLUB TRUCK! I LONG ISLAND CLUB TRUCK!! 
LOST/FOUND I 

LOST: One (1) Physics 128 booK. Ac· cidentally (?)taken lrom South D1ning Hall during lunch on 4/29. In order to stay at NO I need to get at least a ·o· in the class and I need the book to study for finals. Call Kevin at 2103 or put it back where you found it. Thanks. 
LOST:IN SOUTH DINING HALL on April 25, a green backpack contain ing 3 folders. 3 notebooks, an accounting book, a management book, pens, pencils, a cal· culator. 3 packs of gum, and other impor­tant stuff. If you have any info about this, think you know where it might be, or just want to talk, call Chris at 3244 or 3243. I really need th1s stuff for finals. ThanKs. 
Lost: Keyring with car keys and dorm keys on it. Lost on South Quad Friday after· noon. If found please return to Laura at 323 P.W. or call2798. 
LOST: A green Comparative Government notebook and a red Political Theory notebook. They both have my name, dorm, and room number in them. II found, contact John Kilcran in Sarin Hall, room 
335. My number is 2196. 
To the person who thought that it would be cute to remove the set of keys from the security vehicle on St. Marys campus lriday night, the joke was taken very seriously. If you have any information, please call 239-6334 or 232-9332 evenings. NO QUESTIONS ASKED ... 
LOST: royal blue back pack has 3 notebooks and 2 books. Last seen in the South Dining Hall on Friday the 26. PLEASE return it I need it for finals. Trav 2729 
Will the person who '"borrowed" the lrlah planter from the •ecretary'a daak In 356 O'Shag, piMu return It-no qunllona ••ked. It -• a gilt from enother O'Shag Meretary •everal yMr•ago. 
IF YOU TOOK A PRINCIPLES OF MARKETING BY ACCIDENT FROM F· LINE IN NORTH DINING HALL ON TUESDAY APRIL 30 BETWEEN 12:30 AND 1:00, I REALLY NEED THAT BOOK FOR A FINAL YOU CAN HAVE IT AFTER. CALL KIM AT 4205 NO QUES· TIONS ASKED, REALLY. 
LOST: BRASS KEY RING MONDAY NIGHT, APRIL 29, AT SENIOR BAR. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL ANN AT 284­4438. 
FOUND: BROWN SUNGLASS--AFTER THE BLUE/GOLD GAME--CALL 3035 AND ASK FOR PAUL TO IDENTIFY 
FOUND: BLACK WATCH-GOLF COURSE--TUESDAY 4/3o--CALL 3035 ANO ASK FOR PAUL TO IDENTIFY 
LOST: A tri-color 14K gold mesh bracelet With a dasp fasten. on Fridey· 4-27-85. This is an anniversary present and has great sent1mental value. If found please contact Rosanne 239-6436 at the Finan­cial Aid Office. Reward of $25 is offered if found. 
LOST: BEIGE· BROWN JACKET ON THURS. 4/25 IN HAYES HEALY BASE· MENT. IF FOUND, SPARE ME MOM'S WRATH AND CALL BOB AT 1175. NO Q'SASKED 
LOST: Levi's blue denim jacket. at Senior Bar on Mon. night. My nam'e is on the inside of the coat. PLEASE call me. my soul is in that jacket. Thanks 
LOST (or stolen?): one bright red 14' canoe with Strange Canoe Rentals painted on the side. The canoe walked away from Lake Marion Thursday. April 25 about 8:30 pm. If you have any in· formation call the AN TOSTAL office at 239-7668. We won't ask any questions 
"loat"...blue bookbag in the south dining hall. It could have walked off bull believe someone has it. My name is all over the 5 notebooks inside...please give me a call or drop it off where you lou nd it. If I go through finals without ill willlorever pray that you are hit head on by a sem1. 
LOST· FULL SET OF KEYS. I believe they were lost on the North Quad. There is a Cadeucis (medical symbol) on them. If lound call Glenn a\272-1869 
Clara P. says: Whore's the bike?! 
Mr. Tsays: Ah piddy 'da loo 
Some Oriental Guy says: AI pity Ia foor 
The Duke says: Well give the man his horse back 
LOST (In Llbr8ry) One Blue NO notebook ForGovt340 Need for fi nela eo~ll1505 If lound 
FOR RENT ] 
FOR RENT: GRADUATE STUDENTS ONLY 2-Bedroom Houee 1 mile from C.mpua. Completely Remodeled­$350.00/Month C.l\287-4107 at6 p.m. forappl. 
Chicago one-bedroom apartment to sub­let. Available May I. 10 minutes by bus from loop. Desirable neighborhood. Vintage building with elevator. Mo (312) 348·2418 AM or PM. 
Responsible female roommate to share furnished townhouse apt. at Turtle Creek lor summer and/or 1985-86 school year Call Annette 272·6014 evenings. 
ROOMMATE WANTED TO SHARE N.D APT. FOR '85-'86. COOL ROOMIES CALL Tl M AT 2546. 
5-bedroom houM eveileble for next 
•chool year. Completely furnlehed. 
C.ll 234-9364. ......... 
__W_A_N_T_E_D__~I 
'--
• 
'84 NO grad needs ROOMMATE for 2 bdrm apt in Birmingham, MI. Call 272· 8617 if relocating in Detroit area. 
NEED GRAD TIX, WILL PAY$$$, JOHN 234-9580 
Wanted: A good 10 •o that Thereaa Guarino eo~n celebr.te her 21•tln •tyte. PI•..• eo~ll, but don'ta•k why •he need• one II •he I• legal. 
I need • car! Summer employment necessitates my buying a car. If you have an inexpensive car that you don't want to drive all the way home, let me know. Call Oan at 1625. Thanks. 
Summer hou•lng needed Two guys still need somewhere to live this summer. If you have someplace cheap to rent call Dan at 1625. 
Need a ride East AFTER GRADUATION? Pbgh, Breezewood, D.C. Call Kathleen 2777 
NEED MALE ROOMMATE NEXT YEAR AT HICKORY VILLAGE APTS. CALL MARK AT 272-6298. 
WORK OUTSIDE THIS SUMMER MIC­HIGAN SUMMER CAMP is looking for counselors, cooks, unit leaders, waterfront director. Instructors-swim­ming, rowboating, canoeing, horseback riding, archery, woodworking, drama, cralls, biking. nature studies. Must five on premises 9 weeks. College credit pos­sible. Salary plus room and board. Call: Camp Chief Makisabee-(616) 424·5272. 
Ride needed: ALBANY /1-90 after Sat May 11. Mark2153 
NEED RIDE TO ATLANTA! Can leave after 5/13. Will share ex· penses. Call Andrea x3880. 
ROOMMATE WANTED TO SHARE N.D. APT FOR '85-'86. COOL ROOMIES. CALL TIM AT 3546. 
NEED RIDERS to KANSAS CITY and WEST as far as UTAH! Leaving 4/20 call Paul4006 
1 Aider needed to Jax, Florida or ? along the way. Leaving Tuesday the 14th. Call Davidat3123. 
headmg east after graduation? ride needed to north jersey or nyc area. please call deb at 2900. 
Part time job! Need help laying sod, $4.00/h call277·7660 
RIDER TO CENTRAL NEW JERSEY (Middletown, Lincroft, Holmdel. elc.) NEEDED !! WILL RENT CAR & LEAVE 5/12 OR 5/13...CALL PAT AT 3317 or 3318. 
WANTED: A ROOMMATE FOR NICE CHEAP HOUSE. CALL RALPH. 1486 
Need a ride toflOCHESTER/ UPSTATE NY. Can leave anytime Mon. 5/13 or later. Terry 1888 
RIDER NEEDED: To Akron-Cleveland area, on Tuesday 5/14. Call284-4416 
FOR SALE 
6-UNIT APARTMENT FOR SALE, NO· MEMORIAL AREA, EXCELLENT CON· DITION 233-9728 232-4528 
FOR SALE: CEDAR-LINED STEAMER TRUNK, 61/2 X 2 X 1 1/2. CALL ADELE, 3144. 
HAVE SWEET DREAMS! 2 TWIN BEDS FOR SALE CALL 277-4872 
FOR SALE: Post Office Jeep, '69, $150, CALL JOHN 234-9580 
FOR SALE: COMPLETELY REMODELED 2·BEDROOM HOUSE 1 Mile from C.mpua. GrNtfor tax lnvut­ment. Land contract evallable. C.ll after 6 p.m. for appt. 287·4107 
SANY033'x18'x17' FRIDGE LIKE NEW! CHRIS .284-5161 
For Sale: One way airline ticket from O'Hare to BOSTON good after May 19, $80 • call Jack ]1527 
BIKE FOR SALE: tO SPEED TAKARA V. GOOD COND. $75 OR BEST OFFER RICKX4384. 
YARD SALE YARD SALE YARD SALE YARD SALE YARD SALE YARD SALE Small appliances, clothes, lays, dishes, baby items, plus much more University Village (NO Mamed Housing) --just past the toll road on Hwy 31, in the Village Yard 9-12, Saturday. May 4 
BICYCLE BOOK RACK, call Matt, 3363 
I 
TICKETS 
~... ---.....-..-......-.. --~ 
TWO GRADUATION TICKETS NEEDED IN A BAD WAY JOHN 277-0607 
NEED GRADUATION TICKETS PLEASE CALL PAUL OR JEFF ANYTIME AT 232-4525. 
PRINCE AND THE REVOLUTION wont be at my graduation but my family will! And they need 1 or 2 tickets. Call Bob M. a\3192 if u will. 
HELP!! I'M GETIING DESPERATE SENIORS!! I NEED ONE MORE GRADUATION TICKET!! WILLING TO PAY TOP DOLLARS FOR THIS TICKET!! PLEASE CALL JEFF AT 3859' YOU WON'T REGRET HELPING A FEL­LOW SENIOR! THANKS!! 
NEED 5 GRAD TIX, PLEASE !! CALL KAREN AT 277·6740. 
I NEEDGRADTIXCALL W0ll18120R 3224 
HELP!!! NEED FIVE (5!) GRAD TIX OR RENTS WILL MAKE ME STAY IN SOUTH BEND..CALL KEVIN AT 2872290 
DERANGED PSYCHOPATH WILLING TO SWAP COVETED COLLECTION OF ODD $HARP POINTY OBJECT$ FOR GRAD TIX. CALL PAUL ]232-6897 TO $ET UP $ALE. 
I DESPARATEL Y NEED GRADUATION TICKETS. IF YOU CAN HELP ME PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 1236. WIL­LING TO PAY BIG BUCKS. 
HELP! need3 grad. tix call mark xt204 
$$$$ FOR GRAD TIX 1346 
WANTED,TICKETS FOR GRADUA­TION. PLEASE CALL ART AT 277-8371 $$$$ 
I HAVE GRADUATION TICKETS. WILL SELL REAL CHEAP. CALL BETH AND AMY AT2914. 
ARRGHH'! If I do not find one extra ticket for graduation, I'm dead'!! please call 3188 
GRADUATION TICKETS? Will pay top dollar' Call Nancy x4225 
I NEED GRAD TIX Call Keith 3540 
NEED GRAD TICKET!! CALL TED AT 232·5645 
I need tix lor graduation. Will pay massive $'s. Call Greg at 1153. 
HHH HELP FAMILY OF 22 SEE GRADUATION! YES, I really DO have 21 brothers and sisters. Do you have tickets? Call Angie 287-1505 
I need GRAD TIX!!!! Please call Diane at 289-2245. Dad will pay$$$$ 
445 MILES-that's a long way to walk, but that is how far I'll be going u,nless I come up with 5, count 'em 5, commencement tickets! Please save me the long walk to Nashville-call John at 1504. Sellers will be properly compensated with mounds of cash. 
I REALLY need one graduation ticket. Will pay BIG BUCKS. Eric 3654 
DESPERATELY NEED 1 GRADUATION TICKET WILL PAY $$$ PLEASE CALL KENT 2065 AFTER 12PM 
I NEED GRAD TIX JEFF 3467 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN. 
HELP!! I AM IN DIRE NEED OF ONE MORE GRADUATION TICKET!!! PARENTS WILL KILL ME IF I DON'T COME THROUGH WITH THIS DEAL!! PLEASE HELP OUT A POOR FELLOW SENIOR, AND CALL JEFF AT 3859. 
RETAIL FURNITURE SALES Part time. flexible hours. lmmed. openings, call Chris Pedevilla 259-0007 1 0-8PM The Furniture Gallary, Misha. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO THE BEST SMC EDITOR OF THIS CENTURY! ANYONE WHO WANTS TO WISH TESS GUARINO A HAPPY 21ST CALL 284­5011! SEE YOU AT THE BARS TESS BABY! LOVE, MOUSE 
FCE FCE FCE FCE 
RETURN YOUR FCE TODAYI!I (TO HALL PRES. THANKS!! ) 
Attention all tutors and eo~ptaln• of NSHP. Annual epring picnic I• thl• Sunday from 2 to 4 p.m. at Stepan Center. Free·· food-Free drink! BE THERE! 
CALIFORNIANS! If anyone can help get some ol my stuff home to mid or North. Calif., or wants to co-rent transportation there, I may be able to pay a little more than the usual. Call Mike at 1004. 
I NEED GRADUATION TIX!!! Any extra call Sheila 234-7319. 
HELP!!!! MY MOM JUST HAD SEX­TUPLETS AND THEY ALL WANT TO GO TO GRADUATION!!!!! IF YOU HAVE AN· NNNNYYY EXTRA TICKETS PLEASE CALL TIM (1108) or LISA (2775) GRIF· FIN ... My Mom will be very thankful. 
Why do wa keep getting In eo many fight•? 
Thank You Saint Jude!! 
CLASSOF'87 PICNIC!! Friday, May 3rd 4:30-6:30 Green Field 
CLASSOF'87 Mass at the Grotto May 5th, 7 P.M. B.Y.O.B. (Blanket) 
Be Smart! Beat the rush! Sell your books for $$. Books bought M-F. Pandora's Books, 937 South Bend Ave (I block from Corby's). 
A.A. DATE. I HOPE YOU HAVE THE GREATEST BIRTHDAY EVER! I HOPE IT'S THE FIRST OF MANY WE CELEBRATE TOGETHER' LOVE, A.A. 
DO YOU LIKE CHICS AND MONEY SMC Orientation seeks domers to assist in the moving of 500 SMC freshman into their halls. Benefits are many. Interested? Contact Maura or Carol at 4339 or 4352 (SMC) 
Quote of the Day "Blessed are they who run around in circles, for they shall be called wheels." 

Quote of the Day "Every man likes to see a nice broad smile, especially when she's smiling at him." 
Bed Joke of the Day No. 2 Why can't a bicycle stand up by itself? 
Because it's too tired 
Teaa Birthday Quote of the Day "I don't belieeeeeeeeve you put that picture in the paper!" 
Will Stacy ever live down the day that ahe hNrd the worda: "Are you people having fun... Oh, Hi Sean! 
Love, your 11and 1:15claa.... 
LAST CHANCE to •end Mntimenta through THE OBSERVER Claaaifl­ia Friday May 3, by 3:00pm for the final luue (May 6) of the 1984-85 OBSER­VER or by Thuraday May 16, for the May 17 GRADUATION ISSUEII 
WANT TO WISH A SENIOR CON­
GRATS? If you're not sure how to express your con­gratulations, why not PUBLISH them? You can place a display ad in THE OBSERVER for just $15.95 and wish graduation congratulations. The deadline for placing a graduation ad is May 10. 
Student Liaison Committee vote for 85/86 club officers at the Snite Museum front desk. Deadline 4:00pm Friday, May 10. 
DANCE PARTY! BLOW OFF FINALS & PARTY' PROGRESSIVE MUSIC CLUB DANCE PARTY! FRI MAY 3 to-tam ] CHAT AQUA FREE! 
DC CLUB BAGGAGE TRUCK DC CLUB BAGGAGE TRUCK QUESTIONS? CALL JOHN AT 1726 
I HAVE AN EXTRA HOTEL ROOM FOR SAT., MAY 18, BEFORE GRADUATION. CALL MOLLY AT 283·2621. 
TIME IS RUNNING OUT SO WALK DON'T RUN TO The Observer TO PUT IN YOUR CLASSIFIED$ TO SAY GOOD-BYE TO YOUR FRIENDS FOR THE SUMMER AND/OR TO WISH THE 1985 GRADUATES A HAPPY LIFE. THE LAST ISSUE FOR The Observer IS MONDAY, MAY 6. THERE WILL BE A GRADUATION ISSUE ON FRIDAY, MAY 17. 
So Cal Club end of the year picnic-across lrom Stepan(by mudpits)· Friday(S/3) 4· 6pm-Aioha! 
St. Mary's Student Government is spon­soring TUNES 
TANNING 
AND TREATS 
SATURDAY, MAY 4 1-4 HCC TERRACE Come out and relax before finals !I We will be giving away two hawaiian short sets. Rain: inside HCC 
To Nancy, 

No matter where I roam. I will return to my English Rose, For nothing can ever tempt me from she. 
Love, Pat 

I'm auch an ingrete and I'm sorry. 
Thanks for the scream Susan! 
JENNIFER BIGOTI ...... caring under­standing nice trustworthy 
PETE VRDOL YAK PETE VRDOLYAK I THANK THE WOMEN OF NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARYS'S FOR A GREAT FOUR YEARS AND MANY FUN FILLED DAYS OF HORSEBACK (BAREBACK) RIDING AT THE FARM. PETE VRDOL YAK PETEVRDOLYAK 
5 COMMENCEMENT TICKETS!! Don't laugh, that's how many I need or my family will lynch me. Try to prevent this spectacle by selling me any extras you may have. Call John at t 504. $$$$$$$ 
I'm seeking your pity-I've got 5, yes that's 5, sisters. Imagine trying to live with lhem HI don't find them commencement tickets! I'm willing to pay any price to avoid their complaints! Call John at 1504. My ears will be eternally grateful. 
TEO: Good luck on exams!! Try to get some studying in-between women... A Floridegirl 
Ther-, 

Even though you are flnelly 21 
(although you can't prove It) you will 
al-ya be our "baby." 
love, 

Auorted Admirers 
Happy Birthday T-Il 
HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY TO THE BIG BAZQO-MIKE RATACZAK!!!!! WE ARE ALL READY TO HELP YOU CELEBRATE. HAVE A SUPER DAY! LOVE, TWO LYONS GODDESSES. THE" QUEEN BAZOO, AND THE CANUCK. 
HAPPY 20th 
STEVESKOL Enfoy (but not too much) the night out with the Boya. 
Love, Baby Bela Your D.C. S-e 
lhankyou SAINT Jude 
GOOD STEREO EQUIP. CHEAP 1527 
Who's sending the flowers, is what I want to know. 
Quote of the YNr "Darn, I only got an A minus." K.M. 
TO THE BUSH: HAVE A FANTASTIC SUMMER BUT DON'T FORGET ME, 
TJW 
ATIENTION ALL ANIMALSI!I ITS THE REUNION OF THE ZOO­TODAY-JIM'S ROOM (414 GRACE)· 
5:30 PM AN TOSTAL MAY BE OVER 
BUT THE ZOO SHALL PARTY FOREVER .... 
PAT, JOHN, MARK, GENE, AND THE WHOLE MOTILEY CREW: Thanks for all the support and guidance these past few weeks. Watch out BookstC'I"e '86 HERE WE COME YOUR TEAM CANADA CAP· TAIN 
BANANA NIGRO: You asked lor it you got it! I hear that Italian is best, when you find out. let me know! Ciao YeUow Banana 
Just when you thought HOGS couldn't score! CONGRATULATIONS Holy Croaa Soc-TNm! 
NencyYaat You can'tiMve yal You haven't... 
JEFF HERMAN-This Ia your laet per­aonel of the yMr. Hope having ma u your MCret admirer made your y.­more fun. Some day I will revMI myaelf. Hera le your final clue: You dunked me In the mud pita. Love, Your Secret Admirer. 
MONICA MURRAY Saturday is your B­Day we already know A hundred times you've told us so So we'd like to e•tend a wish to you for happiness the whole year through. And peace to us lor another year. until your B·Day again comes near. So happy B-Oay to you MONICA MURRAY ( whose dey we can't forget so doni you worry). Have a good one! Luv, S & C 
THE OBSERVER STAFF WISHES A FOND FAREWELL AND COM­GRATULATIONS TO ALL THEIR SENIOR STAFFERS AND FORMER BIGWIGS: Bob V., Mark Worachah, Mike Sullivan, Dave Grote, Anne Moneetyr.kl, Dave Talclet, Jeff O'Neil, Madman Ramirez, Suzanne LaCroix, Troy Illig, Mary Seiger, Vic: Sciulli, and Mel Moore. WE WILL MISS YOU ALL 
TO LEIGH ANN DONNELLY: Good luck on finals, I know you'll do well! I hope you have a nice summer-maybe I'll see you around. Take care cutie! LOVE BUll 
GOOD LUCK ON FINALS TO MAUREEN ERNY AND LORI CONTE! Thanks lor such a good year' I hope I can visit you this summer. You better visit us next year Lori: we"re really going to m1ss you. LOVE M. 
To the guy who found my wallet on the mall bus, Fridey, March 22? Could you please give me a call...! kind ol need it back. Thanks' Liz 284-4381. 
ND-SMC Junior Class Picnic Sat. May 4th 4-7pm Green Field $2.00 Featuring "Cold Drinks" 
TO TESSIE Now that you're legal, And seemingly regal, The bars are no longer safe. I hope you consume, Though I do not presume, Large quantities of liquor. So if you really don't mind, And begin to enjoy this rihyme, You'll know that it comes from your friend, Peter Pan 'til the end. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY TESS BABY YES, SAINT MARY'S ANSWER TO LOIS LANEISFINALLY21 HER BIRTHDAY IS SATURDAY BUT SHE'LL BE ACCEPT­ING FLOWERS AND DRINKS ALL WEEKEND. • THE TESS BABY FAN CLUB 
DANCE DANCE DANCE with RASTA on Saturday al Stephan 
NO-SMC Junior Class Picnic Sat. May 4th 4-7pm Green Field $2.00 Featuring "Cold Drinks" 


The Observer Friday, May 3, 1985 -page 14 

Athletes honored 

Saint Mary's has awards cerem.ony 
By KELLY PORTOLESE Jennifer Veselik earned the Coach's Laura Harris, Buchanan and Sully are Saint Mary's Sports Editor Award. second-year fencers. Flynn presented his own "Notre According to head track coack 
Saint Mary's held its annual varsity Dame Award" to Kathleen Kennedy Jean Kerich, the team's season was athletic awards ceremony last night for a come-from-behind finish for highlighted by three new school in the College dining hall. second place in the 500 freestyle records. 
Senior tennis player Debbie against the Irish women. Co-MVP record breakers for field Laverie received the coveted Ath­The only four-year letter-winner events were sophomores Megan lete of the Year Award. Laverie, the on the team was senior captain McMonigle in the javelin and Trish No. 1singles player, has been named Byrne. Co-captain for next year, McPartlin in the triple jump. all-district and all-state along with Anne Cushing is a three-year swim­Kris Cox set a new mark in the doubles partner Mary Carol Hall, mer. Second-year winners were 400-meter hurdles. and sophomore Caroline Zern. Kennedy, Murtaugh, PattyJuckniess, Tht: record-breakers were 
First-year award winners for ten­Margaret Mannion and Mary Tier­presented special t-shirts by their nis were Kate McDevitt, who also ney. Finishing their first year on the teammates. earned the team's the most im­team were Rafferty, Pancratz, First-year awards were presented proved award, freshmen Susie Craig Veselik, Anne Dugan, Mary Fisher, to M<·Monigle, Driscoll, Cathy Ken­and Megan Heller, and the Coach's Susan Ridenour and Heidi Traxler. nedy, Barb Lanchette, Diane Cancro, Award recipient, Kim Drahota. Fencing coach Mike Weeks Jill Simonic, Mary Bender, Julie 
Hall, Zern, senior Renee Yung, praised four-year fencer Mary Cas­Novak, Mary O'Connor, Tina Reid, and junior Kim Kaegi received Saint taneda for her efforts and presented Mary Ann VanTassell, Karen Walker Mary's sweaters for their second her with the Most Valuable Award. and Monique Lemieux. year ofparticipation. Mary-Jean Sully was the most im­Se<·ond-year track awards went to 
Junior Kristen Beck and senior proved player while Debbie Buc­Ann Bianco, Cox and McPartlin. Karle Casey were third-year award hanan was the Coach's Award A non-varsity award for excel­winners. recipient for her dedication and en­lence in intramurals was presented 
The softball team was unable to at­thusiasm. by the Alumni Association to senior tend because it was scheduled to Co-captains-elect for next year, as Connie Adamo. She participated in leave for Indianapolis yesterday for announced by Weeks, are Mary Beth intramural basketball and volleyball the state tournament to be played Proost and Shannon Maughan. and was named to the all-star flag 
this afternoon. 
Softball awards were announced 
by Director of Athletics Jo-Ann 
Nester. The Scholar/Athlete of the 
Year Award winner was senior Barb 
Theiss. The first baseman, who owns 
a 3.66 grade point average, also is a 
four-year letter-winner. 
Senior centerfielder and clutch­
hitter Teresa McGinnis was the 
team's MVP. 
Freshman Betty Mihalik, who had never pitched before this season, was named most improved player, while senior Trish Nolan received the Coach's Award for Scott Beisel's 22-7 team. 
'Ibe volleyball team, which finished with a successful 18-6 season, voted senior co-captain Ann Boutton, the team's lone four-year player, as its most valuable player. 
Most improved honors went to sophomore hitter Mary Reidy, and Mary Carole Feldman, a consistant spiker for the Belles all year, received the Coach's Award. 
Along with Reidy and Feldman, ot­her first-year letter-winners were Moira Cronan, Erin Smith, Kara Telrulve, Anne Williard, Beth Woz­niak, Mary Dilenschneider and Jane Reichert. 
Sophomores Ann Brown and Patty Williams also received their sweaters. Senior co-caprain Molly Baker was honored for her three years on the team. 
'Ibe basketball team, coached by Marvin Wood, honored freshman standout Tammye Radke for leading NAIA District 21 in field goal and free throw percentages. 
The team's top rebounder and second leading scorer, Beth Kreber, was voted most valuable and captain by her teammates. 
Freshman Stephanie Duke was the popular choice for the team's most improved player award. Sophomore Maryclaire Driscoll accepted the Coach's Award for her all-around contributions to the team. 
Four-year letter-winners in both basketball and softball were seniors McGinnis and Elaine Suess. Senior Betsy Ebert has played for three seasons. Sophomores Kris Pan­telleria and Lorri White also are dual-sport participants in basketball and softball. 
First-year letter-winners were Rachel Bir, Donna Wolf and Loretta Raycroft. 
The swim team, which was headed by Dan Flynn, placed 14th overall in the NAIA National Swim­ming Championships, where the 200-and 800-yard freestyle relay team composed of senior Ellen Byrne, junior Joyce Murtagh, and freshmen Jenny Pancratz and Meg­han Rafferty gained all-America honors. 
Ann Raney, Rebecca Barnett, football team. 
tm _M..O'fchof Dimes 
~ BlllrH DEFECTS FOUNDATIONI..iliil 


ISENIOR MONTH ACTIVITIESI 
1sATURDAY, MAY4: I 
1 Kentucky Derby Party 4-7pm 1 at Senior Bar. Beer Specials I 
I Admission soe at the door. I 
I I ISUNDAY, MAYS· I I Great America Trip II Buses leave Main Circle at 9:15am. I I I 
1-----------------· 
Notre DaDle Avenue Apartments NOWRENTINGFORFALL 
Completely furnished, balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, 
all deluxe features · 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES (good dealsfor SummerSealon) 
Office at 820 ND Ave 234-6647 open Mon-Fri 3-6pm 256-5716
Sat ll-3pm 
j 


$ $ $ave $ $ ~-..-liiiiiiiiiiiiiii---------,1 S25.00 IO 5150.00 Offtava do 
I 
SEE THIS MAP

On any Rent-it-Hera, Leave-it-There 
FOR YOUR SAVINGS 
RENT FROM SOUTH BEND TO ANY

Ryder One Way Truck Rental 
OF THESE AREAS AND SAVE. 
Offer valid only with this coupon. Not valid with other specials.
RYDER 
SOUTH BEND rents trucks to move it yourself LOCATIONS 



Sports Briefs 
The Notre Dame wrestling team held its 
annual awards banquet last night. John Krug, a 177-pound junior, was named the team's most valuable wrestler for the 1984-SS season. Ken Kasler won honors as the outstanding freshman of the season with his performance at 158 pounds, and senior Phil Baty ( 177 pounds) won the top student/athlete of the year award. Seniors who won monagrarns are Baty, Guy Locksmith and Don Heintzelman. -The Observer 
Acricket matchwill be sponsored by the International Students Organization tomorrow at noon on Stepan Fields. The game once again will feature India against "The Rest of the World." For more infromation, call Winston Griffin at 283-3376. -1be Obser­ver 
BASEBALL TRIVIA 
Answers to yesterday's questions 
1) Bill Bevens 

2) Cookie Lavagetto 
3) AI Gionfriddo 
4) Bucky Walters 
5) Burt Shotton 
Watch for Baseball Trivia to return in the fall. 
1914 Miami St. 
289-6721 
OR 2627 South Main St. 
232-6729 
Rafferty received the MVP award 
L 

TriMarlt of NortMm Indiana 218-2!14-7238 11002.--5710
while Murtagh captured the MIP. 

------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer Friday, May 3, 1985 -page 15 
Statsny gets goal on lucky bounce; N ordiques defeat Canadiens, 4-3 

Associated Press 
MONTREAL -In the end, the .... Battle of Quebec came down to a 1 lucky bounce and a single shot. 
Peter Stastny poked in defen­seman Pat Price's rebound at 2:22 of overtime to lift the Nordiques to a 3-2 victory over the Montreal Canadiens to win the best-of-seven Adams Division final4-3. 
The Nordiques advance to face Philadelphia in the National Hockey League Wales Conference final. Game 1 ofthat series is Sunday night in Quebec City. 
"I won the faceoff and I just wanted to get in front of the net and screen (goaltender Steve) Penney," said Stastny. "Suddenly the puckwas in front ofthe net; I took a swing at it and missed. 
"I was hoping Alain Cote would be able to push it in but the puck cameback to me and I just putit in." 
Montreal Coach Jacques Lemaire said that kind of bounce seemed to go Quebec's way in the series. 
"It was a reflection ofour season," Lemaire said. "All the games were close, but during the season, the puck seemed to be rolling for us. 
"In the series it was rolling for them -let's face it, they won three games in overtime." 
The Observer/johannes Hacker It was Montreal's fifth loss in as 

The Notre Dame track team will be hoping to stay ahead ofthe many alltime playoff overtime crowd, as Tim Cannon often is in long-distance events, when it games against Quebec. plays host to the Midwest Catholic Championships this weekend. When Stastny won the faceoff, he Irish track stories are 011 the backpage. got the puck back to Price at the left 

point. Price's slapshot went off Pen­ney's stick and the rebound shot was juggled by Penney. The puck fell to the ice and Stastny poked it home. 
"It's usually not a pretty goal that wins in overtime," said Price. "We just tried to push it at the net, kick it, anything. I just wanted to hit net be­cause he'd been having trouble with rebounds." 
The bitter, provincial rivals stuck mostly to hockey in the final game of what had been a chippy war ofattri­tion in the previous six. 
The Nordiques built a 2-0 lead with an early first-period goal by rookie defenseman Bruce Bell and one early in the second by Jean­Francais Sauve. · Bell beat Penney from long range at 3:27. Sauve's weak wrist shot from 45 feet skittered through Penney's legs. 
Montreal fought back to tie on second-period goals by Pierre Mon­dou and Mats Naslund. Both were set up by veteran defenseman Larry Robinson. 
Mondou tipped in a Naslund shot, then Naslund poked in a rebound after Robinson's long wrist shot was blocked by Gosselin. 
The Canadiens outplayed Quebec for most of the third period, al­though neither team produced many great chances. 
In the second minute, Montreal's MarkHunter had Quebec netminder Mario Gosselin beaten but rang a shot off the goalpost. Seconds later, Michel Goulet forced Penney to make a leg-pad save. Penney also had to be sharp to make a pad save on Brent Ashton late in the period. 
Rick Green and Chris Chelios, both questionable starters for Montreal, played. Green, who suf­fered a bruised shoulder in Game 6, saw little action in the third period while Chelios, who missed the previous game with a knee sprain, took a regular turn. 
Dale Hunter, Quebec's feisty center, returned after missing Game 6 with an infected right hand. He played one or two shifts in the first period but sat on the bench the rest ofthe way. 
Lacrosse 
continuedfrom page 20 
Shay, and one apiece from midfielders Tim Corrigan and John McNicholas -he was disappointed that the Irish could not capitalize on more opportunities in front of the Buckeye net. 
"We dominated play at the start of the game, but we were unable to score as often as we should have," said O'Leary. "The (Ohio State) goalie simply had a very good day." 
The Irish defense, however, was even more impressive than that of the Buckeyes. Freshman goaltender Matt McQuillan matched his coun­terpart on Ohio State in stopping 13 shots, and Shay led a very successful clearing campaign for the Irish as they cleared the ball from the defensive zone 27 times, with only nine failures. 
Notre Dame's consistent attack eventually wore down the Buckeyes, but not until after a three­goal flurry by Ohio State within a seven-minute span tied the game at four. The sudden burst by the Buckeyes seemed to awaken the Irish, however, as they rebounded quickly to score three more goals before the conclusion of the third quarter. 
The catalyst for the Notre Dame rally came from an unlikely source. Corrigan, whose earlier score had raised his season total to just four goals, tallied two more times for the Irish, and attackman Bob Trocchi then chipped in a goal to raise the score to 7-4. 
Corrigan still was not through, however, and neither were the Irish. The 6-0, 195-pound Corrigan, a native of Granger, Ind., followed an early fourth-quarter goal by Joe Franklin with another one ofhis own giving him four for the day. Trocchi completed the scoring with his 32nd goal of the season to give the Irish their 10-4 margin ofvictory. 
Michigan State, on the other hand, figures to give Notre Dame a toug­her battle. Although the Irish have never lost to the Spartans, they will be tested by an experienced attack which has led MSU to a 9-5 season mark. 
"Michigan State has always given us a tough game," says O'Leary. "They are good defensively, and they have a chance to share the Great Lakes championship. They'll be ready to play." 
Two Irish regulars will be ready to play as well. Trocchi and Shay, the two team captains who have played at an all-America level for the past two years, will be competing for the last time in a Notre Dame uniform. 
Trocchi led the Irish over the 
Spartans last season with three goals 
in an 11·1 0 clipping. 
Senior goaltender Rob Simpson, who has started in the cage for the Irish for all four ofhis years, is listed as questionable after dislocating a shoulder last week. 
For these players and five others it will be a final chance to win a game before graduation. This game, however, could mean a conference championship as well. 

.. 
The Observer Friday, May 3, 1985-page 16 
Chief's Crown favored in Kentucky Derby 
Associated Press whose Tank's Prospect underwent minor throat surgery in early April 
LOUISVILLE, Ky.-Chiefs Crown, then won the Arkansas Derby April described by his trainer as "a profes­20. sional race horse," will challenge 12 But Chiefs Crown, whose training other three-year-old colts tomorrow was interrupted by a slight virus in in the I 11th Kentucky Derby. January, has been invincible this 
lbe smallest Derby field since the year, and yesterday he was made the filly Genuine Risk beat 12 rivals in early 9-5 favorite for the 1 1/4-mile 1980 offers an intriguing blend of Derby. front-runners such as Spend A Buck, Proud Truth was made the second Eternal Prince and Rhoman Rule, choice at 9-2, the entry of Rhoman and stretch-runners such as Proud Rule and Eternal Prince was listed at Truth and Stephan's Odyssey. 5-1, Spend A buck 6-1, Stephan's 
'lben there is the versatile Chiefs Odyssey and Tank's Prospect each 8­Crown, who can play it several ways. 1, and Skywalker 12-1. Whether he comes from offthe pace The outsiders are Fast Account, or whether he sets it, once in front, Floating Reserve, I Am The Game, no horse has passed him. Encolure and Irish Fighter. 
"Once he makes the lead he Chiefs Crown, who will be ridden doesn't pass the dice," said trainer by Don MacBeth from the No. 2 Roger Laurin, whose father, lucien, post, opened his three-year-old cam­won the Derby with Riva Ridge in paign with a victory in the seven­1972 and with Secretariat in 1973. furlong Swale on March 2 at 
"I like the hand I've got. I wouldn't Gulfstream Park. He then won the 1 trade my horse for the whole field." 1/8-mile Flamingo wire-to-wire 
"Chiefs Crown's a nice horse, the March 30 at Hialeah, then turned in a horse to beat, but he's not invin­dazzling front-running victory in the cible," said trainer D. Wayne Lukas, Blue Grass Stakes at Keeneland. 
New football ticket policy announced yesterday 
Unlike past years, Notre Dame student football ticket applications and information will not be mailed this semester or during the sum­mer. Instead, they will be distributed at the time ofregistration in the fall. 
Next season's ticket package will consist of six home games (Michigan State, Army, USC, Navy, Mississippi and LSU), and the package must be paid for at the time ofissue. The cost will be S51 for Notre Dame students and 567.SO for Saint Mary's students. 
ATicket for a spouse will be the same price as that of the student and proof of marriage is required. 
-$--1---N-AUGLES--$--1--·~~ 
Z4IIOUIIDRiftn.JMSTAURAIIT "an experience In good ttute" 1 Purchase any Mexican-American food Item from 1 our menu and receive $1 off the price with this 1 coupon. One coupon per visit, please. 1 Not valid with any other promotional offer, 1 coupons or specials. 1 
--------------------~--------~ 

! 
I : 

Apply nowfor credit cards: 
• 
MASTERCARD •VISA •SEARS •HUDSONS 

• 
ZALES 


90% ofall appllcanu given instant credit. No co-signers/ 
APPLY: 

Today, Friday May 3 
LaFortune Student Center 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
I 

Brought to you by your Student Activities Board in conjunction with College Credit Card Corp. 

APPhoto 

Chicago Cubs' Shawon Dunston makes a perfect Chicago. Manny Trillo was out atfirst to complete four-point landing after San Francisco's Dan Glad­the double play. den was forced at second in a game Tuesday in 


Pizza Hut®Delivers 
1$2 OFF anvl..arge Pizza 

I 
I~!.m!!~~!,~!!¥,.!';!!!~~!!!at participating Pizza Hut' Special Delivery'" units. Not valid lor dine-in or carry-out, or in combination with any other Pizza Hut· offer. Umited Delivery Area. Offer ~good only on regular menu prices through Mav 11, 1985. 
I~;~"~;;;~;;;·;;;; 232-2499 I
HOURS. 

~··a Hut ··s Roiii•..J Now' ' 4:~ p.m.-~:OO a.m., ~n.-Sat. ...1
t_!ll66 II • ,, 4.00 p.m. 12M. Sun. Thurs. 
The Observer Friday, May 3, 1985 -page 17 

Freshman Dan Walsh has been sensational for the Notre Dame men's tennis team in his first 

ASPECIAL PROGRAM FOR NEW GRADUATES 
By TRISH SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 

As the school year draws to a close and finals draw near, this is a time to reflect on what one has learned over the past semester. But one young man in particular will tell you he has learned a lot from this past year... a lot about himself and his game. 
The young man is Dan Walsh and his game is tennis. A freshmen from Bloomfield Hills, Mich., Walsh began playing tennis at the age of eight. Though he didn't take it so seriously at the time, it became more of a sport for him in high school. 
"I started playing tennis when I \vas pretty young, and I just did it for fun because we lived by a country club. But then once I started in high school I took it more seriously," ex­plains Walsh. 
While attending Birmingham Brother Rice High School, Walsh let­tered four years and made the all­state team as a senior. He captured the Michigan State Championships in No. 4 singles as a junior, and he 
CAN HELP YOU INTO ANEW CHRYSLER OR PLYMOm. 
With graduation here, you're probably ready for a  for a fraction of the purchase cost, with afford­ 
new car. Chrysler Corporation understands the  ably low monthly payments. You have six months  
graduate's problems establishing a credit history  from the receipt of your degree to take advantage  
and getting together enough cash to finance a  of this exclusive program.  
new car purchase. Now you can afford a new car,  Mail the coupon below and get full details  

thanks to Chrysler's special Gold Key program for col­lege graduates. 
You can drive a new 1985 Chrysler or Plymouth 
~-----------------,
FIND 
OUT 
MORE. 
SEND MY MATERIALS 1D THE ADDRESS BELOW. 
Name 
Address 
City State Zip 
College or University 
Graduation Date 
Mail to: Chrysler-Plymouth College Graduate Program 
2751 E. Jefferson Avenue 
De1roit, MI 48207 

L-----------------~ 
of this special Gold Key 

program for you,  ~  
the new college  
graduare.Actnow.  .  . .  

Freshman Dan Walsh emerges as solid player 
was named MVP of the state cham­
pionship team that year. In addition, 
Walsh was named to numerous all­
Catholic squads and garnered 
Scholar-Athlete-of-the-Year his last 
two seasons. 
With such impressive credentials, 

he still entered Notre Dame with a 
modest goal. 
"I just wanted to make the travel­

ing team," states the St. Ed's resident. 
The transition to college was a bit 

rocky at first, as the fall campaign did 
not prove too successful for Walsh 
in the win-loss column. But he will 
tell you that he did gain something 
from the two tournaments the team 
participated in. 
"I didn't do well at all during the 

fall. My performance showed me 
that I have so much more to learn 
and a lot of work to do." 
This spring season has been much kinder to Walsh, though. With only one regular-season team to face on their schedule, Walsh holds down the No. 3 singles spot with a 20-11 record, and he is the doubles partner with senior Mike Gibbons. As coach Tom Fallon explains, Walsh's perfor­mance has come as a pleasant surprise. 
"Walsh is playing well at third singles, which is particularly un­usual because he is a freshmen," stresses the Irish mentor. "Hopefully the experience he gains this year will pay off when we lose Gibbons next year." 
Walsh has come a long way in his abilities on and off the court, due in part to encouragement from teammates. 
"Mike Gibbons has helped me tremendously, as have all the up­perclassmen," says Walsh. "Back home I have an individual coach, Keith Cullen, and he helped me mature as a tennis player. Since I've been here, I've worked more on the mental part ofmy game. My patience has improved and I am able to remain calm and rebound after a loss. I've got a long way to go, but I'm learning so much already." 
With such a positive attitude and a willingness to work, Dan Walsh is at least one student who will receive a passing grade after this semester ends. 
Autry 
continuedfrom page 20 
well for the Irish. Head coach Joe Piane is depending on him to replace Patterson as the team's leader in the jumping events. Autry seems ready to meet the challenge. 
"I definitely want to contribute more," Autry says. "I don't want the points the team loses with James' graduation to slip away." 
Piane also is confident that the sophomore business major can sof­ten the blow of losing Patterson, especially in the long jump. 
"He is a very hard worker," Piane says. "One of these days, he will be a real good long jumper. If you put in a great amount ofwork, as Joel does, it will bring great results." 
Autry will not be looking ahead to next year this weekend as he con­centrates on competing in the Mid­west Catholic Championships. Marquette has a solid field team and DePaul has a very good triple jumper, so there will be plenty of competition in the long and triple jump events. Autry says he hopes that he can turn in a solid perfor­mance and give the team some valuable points in his field events. 
Don't Drive Drunk 

y• 
. '· \ ' ..-' ~ .... ~ . . 

·­
The Observer Friday, May 3, 1985-page 18 
Seniors pace baseball team to successful finish 
ByKEVIN HERBERT 
Sports Writer 
Turning things around. That is a common addage which accurately describes the Notre Dame baseball team's performance over the past fif­teen games. It has won twelve, lost two and tied once to raise its record from a dismal II-21-1 to a respec­table 23-23-2. 
A large part ofthis turnaround has been due to perseverance, deter­mination and able leadership. To a large degree, these vital elements have been provided by the seniors of this year's squad. 
Joe Dobosh, Dave Clark, John Murphy, Mike Dorning, Jason Schomer and Mike Trudeau have been six seniors who have con­tributed greatly to the Irish diamond success this season. 
Utis weekend, these seniors will be playing their final regular season games in Notre Dame uniforms. The Irish will be playing two twinbills Saturday and Sunday in the Nor­theast against the Black Bears of Maine. 
Excluding the playoffs, which will be held later this month, the games 
Baseball 
continuedfrom page 20 
first-place team from the South in the opening round, ·'tentatively scheduled for May 17 in the home ballpark of the South division cham­pion. 
Right now that team would be tenth-ranked Oral Roberts ( 7-1 in the MCC). The only team that could threaten that spot is Evansville ( 6-2 in the league), as the Aces travel to ORV for a four-game set this weekend. To take over first, Evansville needs to do the nearly­impossible task of winning three out offour this weekend. 
"Both of those teams are good teams," states Gallo. "It won't be easy having to play either one of them in their home ballpark, but the way we've been playing lately, I think we have just as good a chance to win as anybody." 
The winner of the conference 
Track 
continuedfrom page 20 
lht· 4x800-mett:rs relay of 
McNelis, Nobles, Nick Sparks, and 
VanWie is ranked seventh nationally 
with a time of 7:20.1. lbe 4x400 
relay has run extremely well all year 
with Nobles, Dan Shannon, Van 
Pearcy, Mitch Van Eyken, and 
McNelis. 
The Irish have had strong perfor­
mances from their freshmen, also.. 
Dan Garrett ( 5000) and Rick Mul­
vey (steeplechase) have legitimate 
chances to qualify for the IC4A. 
Javelin thrower Brian Driscoll, who 
has thrown more than 200 feet, 
could join pole vaulter Chris Matteo 
at the IC4A meet. 
lbe traditionally strong Notre Dame middle-distance crew has been accented by improved sprinters. Pearcy and Shannon have qualified for the IC4A meet in the 200 and 400, as have the 4x I00 and 4x400 relays. Van Eyken and Shan­non also are close to the NC..AA stan­dard in the 400. 
Tim Smith and Tom Mick have contributed to the track team's ef­fort in the discus and shot put. 
"Every area has shown improve­ment, including the weight events," says Piane. "This is the most balanced Notre Dame team in at least ten years." 
Ibe Irish will carry their balanced attack into this weekend's meet against a strong Marquette team, among others. 

this weekend will effectively end the 
collegiate playing days of this year's 
seniors. 
Mike Trudeau has been one senior 

who has drastically improved his 
skills this year. 
"Mike's improvement this year has been overwhelming. His hitting has been unbelievable," commented nine-year assistant coach Ray Len­tych. When asked what was the reason for this remarkable improve­ment, Lentych responded, "He (Trudeau) always wanted to fly jets for the navy, but he was uncertain if he would be given the opportunity. In February, the navy gave him the go ahead. 
"I believe this took a lot of mental anguish from Mike and allowed him -to concentrate better on the field." 
Whatever the case may be, Trudeau has been at the top of his game this year as well as at the top of the Notre Dame hitting charts this season. 
Trudeau is hitting at the un­believable clip of .395, a good twenty points in front of his nearest teammate. 
After not starting at all his fresh­man year and seeing only split-duty 
playoffs earns an automatic berth in the NCAA tournament. 
Gallo would like to see the playoffs moved up one day, since the championship date conflicts with graduation. Should he fail in his ef­forts, though, the decision will be made by the seniors as to what to do. 
''I'm not going to force anybody to miss their graduation," says Gallo. "I just couldn't do that.lfweget to that situation, we'll play with whoever we have." 
There are plenty of underclas­smen who have shown they are more than capable of doing the job. One of those is junior third baseman Rich Vanthournout. The St. Charles, Ill., native has shattered the school record for most hits in a season, col­lecting 61 thus far on his way to a .347 batting average. Vanthournout also has established new marks for most runs ( 48) and most at-bats ( I 76) in a season. 
While doing the job at bat, Van­thournout also has been spectacular in the field, turning in several his sophomore year, Trudeau finally got the opportunity to play full time in his junior season. 
Trudeau took good advantage of the opportunity by batting .324. From that startingpoint, he has lifted his average some seventy points. 
"A lot ofpractice and Coach's help have improved my hitting" com­mented Trudeau. "I am just glad that I could help the team". 
Jason Schomer started out his playing days at Notre Dame at the shortstop position. After having problems at this spot, He decided to make the most of his powerful arm and take a stab at pitching. 
"Jason is a real hard-nosed kid,"Lentych says. "He came into the program as a shortstop. He had some problems with the bat, though, so he came to us and asked if he could try pitching. He has a real strong arm and has made himself into a pretty good reliefpitcher." 
Schomer said he is most happy with his perseverance. 
"I was not doing very well at shortstop, but I do have a very strong arm and, through hard work and sticking it out, I hope that I have helped our team through my pitch­ing." 
defensive gems. That kind ofoverall 
play has been pleasing to Gallo. 
"Rich is just an excellent col­
legiate player," Gallo says. "He's 
been doing the job all year, and I 
couldn't ask for more than what he's 
given to us." 
Vanthournout may have to guard 
all his records from his partner on 
the left side of the infield, Tom 
Shields. The junior shortstop really 
has been on a tear lately, raising his 
average to .364 with six homers and 
37 RBis. Meanwhile, he has shown 
off his strong throwing arm many 
times during the Irish turnaround by 
erasing base hits with outstanding 
defensive plays. 
"Tom Shields is just playing the 
heck out of shortstop right now," ·lauds Gallo. "He's drilling the ball at the plate, and nothing is getting by him at shortstop. He's been 
phenomenal." 
That might also be the word to 
describe the play ofleft fielder John 
Loughran. In his first season of play, 
the sophomore has consistently 

Schomer's statistics this year in­clude a 1-0 record with two saves. 
John Murphy is a 5-10, 170-pound first baseman who hails from Crystal Lake, Ill. Murphy had not played very much in his first three years at Notre Dame, but he has seen action in a good portion of this season's ac­tion. 
Murphy batted .318 this past fall and has driven in eight runs this spring. 
"Murphy moved from third to first base and has done a great job there," Lentych says. "He has given us alot of depth where we have never had it in the past." 
"Due to coaching, experience and maturity I have been able to greatly improve my batting average this year" says Mike Doming, a catcher who comes from Clairmont Calif. 
Durning currently is hitting .331 with a .982 fielding percentage. Said Lentych, "As a freshman, Mike and Dave Clark knew the fundamentals better than any other freshmen that we have had here in nine years." 
"My goals this year were to hit .300 and to make the playoffs," Dor­ning says. "Fortunately both have been accomplished." 
drilled the ball to post a .379 average, giving Gallo yet another young player who is contributing. 
Still, one can't ignore the con­tribution made by the senior regulars on the squad, who have helped the Irish post a .310 team bat­ting average. Right fielder Mike Trudeau leads the Irish in several categories with his .395 average, 14 doubles, five triples, six homers and 41 RBI. Catcher/DH Mike Dorning also has been swinging the hot bat, carrying an average of .331 into the final weekend. Of course, there's also Moran, the Irish captain, who has been strong in the field, while also stroking a .327 average. 
While the offense has been potent, Gallo says he believes that strong pitching has been the key to the turnaround. It should be noted that the Irish bullpen had been ques­tionable while Notre Dame was in its losing skein. However, after the Purdue game, Gallo moved Buster Lopes to the bullpen, and the senior fireballer has responded by picking 
Dave Clark is a mysterious 'tale of two cities,' 
"I started switch hitting last year. It was the first time that I had ever hit from the left side. I batted .340 from the left and .280 from the right side," he says. 
"This year they wanted me to hit for power which meant I had to switch back to the right side." 
Lentych added, "Dave hits the ball very well." He has had a good season, notching 24 RB!s thus far in 1985. 
Joe Dobosh is a senior who hails from Brookfield, Ohio. Lentych had this to say about Dobosh, "Joe is a great competitor who has matured a lot in his years here at Notre Dame. He has been a hard-luck pitcher." 
Dobosh commented on his progress here in an Irish uniform," I have matured a lot both mentally and physically. I am much more dis­ciplined and have found myself to grow from a thrower to a pitcher." 
The seniors on this year's team have contributed immensely to the Notre Dame baseball program over the last four seasons. Irish baseball 
fans  can  only  hope  that  future  
classes  will  contribute  as  much  
talent as this year's seniors.  

up three wins since that time to raise his record to 5-S with a 5.64 ERA. 
Still, for Lopes to have a chance, the starting staff has had to come through, and Gallo is ecstatic with the recent mound outings. 
"In the last two weeks, we've been getting great starting pitching from Chenail, Cross, Powell and even Joe Dobosh," notes Gallo. "We've been getting five or six good innings out ofall our starters, and that's what our bullpen needs." 
An example ofGallo's statement is found in looking at the last four games. In Sunday's nightcap against Butler, Mark Watzke and Powell combined on a three-hitter in a 7-2 win. Tuesday, Paul Mauk took advantage of a rare start to hurl a four-hitter at lllinois-Chicago in an 11-1 triumph. Wednesday, Cross fired a six-hitter in the opening 7-1 win over Western Michigan, while Powell threw a two-hitter in a 2-I victory over the Broncos in game two. 


Hey, Movie Fans..... Get a iob with the 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
MDVIE 
CDMMISSIDN! 
call Donna at 239-7757for a well paid position 


WANT A QUICK\'? 
Quick tans in our boothes without that sweaty feeling! 
It's never too late to be a bronze God or Goddess 
mN-HAWAfM ~-. 
J.M.S. PLAZA ~· 
4609 Grape Road Mishawaka UVB boothes & UVA beds 
' ... 


~c:»cJlct~-----------------------------------Fr-id-ay_,M_a_y_3_,1_9_85---pa_g_e_19
Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 


Campus

The Daily Crossword 
Friday, May 3 Saturday, May 4 
•7 p.m. · Public Policy Workshop, •10 a.m. · Outdoor Track Midwest Catholic "Farewell to Alms," Ms. Diana Pearce, Direc­Championships , Track Directly Behind the tor of Research, Center for National Policy ACC. Review, Catholic University Law School, •1 p.m. -Tennis, NO Men vs. Il­Sponsored by Department of Economics, linois/Chicago, Courtney Courts. 
library Auditorium. •7, 9:15 & 11:30 p.m.· Film, "An Officer and a Gentleman," Engineering Auditorium, 
•7, 
9:15 & 11:30p.m. -Film, "An Officer and a Sponsored by StudentActivities Board, S1.50. Gentleman," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by StudentActivities Board, $1 .50. Sunday, May 5 

•7:30 
p.m. · Friday Night Film Series, •7 p.m.· Opera Program, "An Evening at the 


"L'Argent," Annenberg Auditorium. Opera," little Theatre (SMC), Sponsored by SMC Opera Workshop. 
•7:30 
· 10 p.m. -Square Dance, Logan Center, Volunteers Needed, Sponsored by ND/SMC Council for the Retarded, Free. Dinner Menus 

Notre Dame 


•8 
p.m.· ND/SMC Theatre Play, "We Won't Southern Fried Chicken Pay! We Won't Pay!" O'Laughlin Auditorium, BeefPaprikaski


abbr. ©1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
5/3/85 
S2.50.
All Rights Reserved 

Stir Fry Tofu w/ Chinese Veg
38 -·Chinese 
39 Duvalier's land 
Thursday's Solution 
41 Wages 9 Horseteam 44 Fictitious 10 Nuncupative 45 Thought 11 Weardown 46 City on the 12 Choosing-game 
Arno call 

TV Tonight
47 Ger. prison 15 Flat seeds camp 18 Taut 50 Feeding stop 19 Seine feeder in the wild 23 Casals' 
Friday,May3 8:30p.m. 28 Off the Rack 
54 Singer from Ky. instrument 
34 Wall Street Week 
56 Ballet wear 24 Couples 
6:00p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 9:00p.m. 16 Miami Vice 
57 Adoree or 25 Likesome 
22 22 Eyewitness News 22 Falcon Crest 
Taylor stones 
28 Newswatch 28 28 Me and Mom
58 Singing Carter 26 Pundit 
6:30p.m. 16 M0A0S0H 34 Great Performances Sweeney Todd 
59 Nipapalm 27 Incursions 
22 Three's Company !O:OOp.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 
60 Saucy 26 Seasoner 
28 Wheel of Fortune 22 22 Eyewitness News 
61 Villa d'-29 Cream 
7:00p.m. 16 The Best Times 28 Newswatch 28
30 Bridge call 

22 Detective in the House 10:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 
DOWN 32 "The Prisoner 
28 Webster 22 Movie
5/3/85

1 To boot of-" 
7:30p.m. 28 Me. Belvedere 28 ABC News Nightline 
2 Victory 35 Salad additive 
34 Wall Street Week ll:OOp.m. 28 Love Connection
3 Three Wise Men 39 Must 47 Mex.lass 51 Chemical 4 Spring 40 Shellfish 48 Track figure suffixes 
8:00p.m. 16 Half-Nelson 11:30p.m. 16 Friday Night Videos 
22 Dallas 28 American Beauty Search 
5 Isolate 42 Accumulate 49 Wire·haired 52 Ancient Gaul 
28 Benson 34 Movie · Dinner at the Ritz
6 Oxlike antelope 43 Dutch cheese film star 53 Rote of the 
34 Washington Week in Review 1:00a.m. 16 All In The Family 
7 Kid stuff 44 Headband 50 New Year's Eve gridiron 
8 Moray 46 Certain horse word 55 Opp. of 37A 

SOMUH!N&'S WRONG. WHIIT'S WRON& "?.-'MY 50CK5 SMeu.. ? 
\ 
NO IT ISN'T/ NO, NO.,. IT'S MY fi/CE, 
I {l!P#'T €'1€/?.YTHIN&'S ISN'T 11".71 THe 
5fiY1HI/T.. FINe.. ··ct.ei/F?fiStt. '' ts ( SHOWIN&, 
I 
Kevin Walsh 

-..-------------------------------------~----------. 
• 
-' 
SRorts 
Baseball team's turnaround salvages a half -perfect season 
By CHUCK FREEBY That talent, as well as a six-game that Gallo will take to Orono. Sports Writer winning streak, will be put to the Second baseman Jackie Moran will test this weekend, as the Irish travel be limited to pinch-hitting duty with What a difference two weeks to the Northeast to face perennial a bruised heel. Depth at first base has makes. powerhouse Maine in a pair of been hurt because ofinjuries to Tom 
If you arc a fan of the Notre Dame doubleheaders. The 30-13 Black Guilfoile (pulled hamstring) and baseball team. mark the date ofApril Bears arc a frequent entrant in the· John Murphy (knee), since neither 17 on your calendar. Circle it with a College World Series, and they ccr player will make the trip. big red markt.·r. That's the day that tainly will offer one of the most The pitching staff is tender as well, the Irish baseball team lost a porent challenges the Irish havt: since starter John Bowen has a torn doubleheader to Purdue at home to faced all year. muscle in his arm, while reliever drop to I 1-21-I for the season. Still, Gallo is excited about tht: Buster Lopes has a pulled muscle 'Jhat's the day when people already prospects for th.e coming weekend. above his rib cage. Bowen is had begun writing the eulogy for the "It's going to he tough at Maine, definitely out, but Lopes could be Irish baseball squad. because it's only the second time used sparingly. 
Since that date, the Irish have they have played at home all "Our injury situation is really risen from the dead in most dramatic season," notes the Irish skipper. mind-boggling, but we can't use that fashion. Larry Gallo's batsmen sud­"lhosc people up there have been as an excuse,"' commets Gallo. "We denly put everything together, and waiting to see some baseball, so it's have the people capable offilling in, in the last two weeks the Irish have really going to be a spectacle. We're so we just have to go up there and do posted an outstanding 12-2-1 record looking forward to it. We wish we the job." to climb back to the.500 level at 23-could play today." One thing Gallo doesn't want to 23·2 for the season. Probable pitchers for the Irish are do this weekend is aggravate any of 
"I feel happy for the kids, because Kevin Chenail (3-0, 1.87 ERA) and those injuries, with the Midwestern they've worked hard this year," Joe Dobosh ( 1-4, 6.60 ERA) on City Conference playoffs .still ahead. remarks Gallo. "As quickly as things Saturday. Brad Cross( 1-4,5.09 ERA) The Irish are guaranteed a spot in went sour for us, we've been able to and Steve Powell (5-1, 5.19 ERA) the tournament, thanks to their change it around. Deep down, I look to return to the hill in Sunday's second-place finish in the MCC believe this may be as talented a twinbill. North division. They would play the team as we've ever had, and they're The Irish could use some fine starting to show it." pitching, as it is a banged-up squad see BASEBALL, page 18 
MLA division crown within reach; final lacrosse game this weekend 
By MARlY BURNS pionship and a third-place finish ljUarter, and we held them scoreless .\port.~ Writer overall in the MLA. after they tied it in the third. Last week's loss to Ohio Wesleyan "Sure, our guys were down after 
'lhe Notre Dame lacrosse team diminated any hopes of a second the loss tt> Ohio Wesleyan. But they pla1..'l'd itself in a good position to consecutive ML'\ championship for have responded pretty well. Our win the Grcat Lakes division of the the Irish. but it could not break to­team's knowing it has a chance for Midwest Lacrosst· Association last tally thc spirit of O'Leary's troops. the conference title and for third Wednesday when it heat Ohio State, 'lhis was evidenced by Wednesday's place in the MLA is enough incentive 10--I. in a driving rain at Ohio victory over the Buckeyes, as the to play well." Stadium. Irish scored six straight second-half The Irish certainly played well at 
The Irish. now 6-2 in the MLA and goals after Ohio State had rallied to the beginning of the Ohio State -t-0 in the Great Lakes division, will tie the contest, 4-4, in the third game, scoring four goals in the first travel to East Lansing, Mich., tomor­quarter. half to the Buckeyes' one tally. Al­row to face Michigan State in thc though O'Leary was glad to see the season finale. A victory over the "We playcd well at Ohio State," goals -two by defenseman Justin Spartans would give head coach said O'Leary. "We kept them from 
see LACROSSE, pa2e 15

Rich O'Leary's squad the GL cham-clearing the ball in the fourtb 
John Akers named first Saint Mary's soccer coach 
By KELLY PORTOLESE 
Saint Mary's 5ports Editor 
John C. Akers has been named Saint Mary's first varsity soccer coach, in an announcment made yesterday by Director of Athletics and RecreationJo-Ann Nester. 
"We're really excited because its the first varsity women's soccer program in the state oflndiana," said Akers. "We will be competing against teams from Michigan, Il­linois, Wisconsin and Missouri. We also will ,continue to compete against some top clubs such as Indiana-Bloomington, Marquette and Michigan State." 
Akers says he feels the team recognizes the difficult schedule ahead, and thinks the key to being competitive: will be to rely on the level of fitness the team can obtain the fall. 
"Some of the seniors have been together as a club for three years and they're really excited. And I think 
. 
~ 

·1b~ Observ~r/Johannn Ha( kcr they're ready," commented Akers. 

Dave Clark and the other seniors on the Notre Dame baseball Akers, also an Assistant Professor team will be playing theirfinal regular-season game for the Irish of Spanish in the Department of this weekend. Chuck Freeby provides a review ofthe season in his Modern Languages, has coached the story above, and Kevin Herbert discusses the seniors on the squad club on a volunteer basis since 
on page 18. joining the College in 1982. 

Friday, May 3, 1985 -page 20 

The-Observer/Johannes Hacker 

LongjumperjoelAutryand the rest oftheNotre Dame track team will be busy this weeketld with the Midwest Catholic Champion­ships at the Monagram Track. Mike Szymanskipreviews the action andjohn Coyle git•es a profile ofAutry in the stories below. 
The grand finale 
ND track team plays host to Midwest Catholic meet 
By MIKE SZl'M.ANSKI 
Sports Writer 

Consistency is essential for a successful track team, and as the Irish 
prepare for the Midwest Catholic Championships here this 
weekend, they hope to continue a season which has seen many fine 
performances. 
James Patterson has been a dependable scorer and a mainstay of 
the Notre Dame track team all season. While setting school records 
in the long jump and triple jump, Patterson also qualified for the 
indoor NCAA nationals, and he has an excellent chance at qualifying 
for the outdoor nationals in the long jump, since he needs only four 
inches on his leap. 
Notre Dame head coach Joe Piane points to the emergence of 
half-milers Robert Nobles and John McNelis as another highlight of 
the season. Formerly a 400-meter runner, Nobles has become a fine 
800-meter man ( 1:48), only one-half second from an NCAA bid. 
McNelis and Nobles have qualified for the IC4A meet along with Jeff 
VanWie(800). 
"It has been an exciting year," Piane says. "Many school records 
have fallen, we have been represented at two national champion­
ships (cross country and indoor track), and will most likely be at the 
outdoor nationals. We have also received national recognition for 
our relays." 

see TRACK,page 18 
Joel Autry jumps his way to clutch role on team 
ByJOHN COYLE 
Sports Writer 

joel Autry may play second fiddle to fellow long and triple jumper James Patterson this year, but come next year he will be one of the leaders of the band. The young Autry will replace the co-captain, Patterson, who is a senior, as the number one long and triple jumper of the Notre Dame track team. 
Only a sophomore, Autry already has proven that he can compete with the best on the collegiate level. Autry attended Snider High School in his hometown of Fort Wayne, Ind., where hc set school records of 22-7 in the long jump and 45-7 in the triple jump. 
As a senior in high school, he was recruited for track by Purdue University and Wabash College but not by Notre Dame. He came to Notre Dame in the fall thinking that his track career was over until the Irish track coaches invited him to come out for the team. 
The 5-11 Autry had a very solid season as a freshman but says he feels that he could have had a better indoor season last winter. No one could complain about his performance so far this spring. In the last three weeks, he has had personal bests in both the long and triple jump. He says he hopes to be able to improve his distances in the these next few weeks so he can qualify for the IC4A Championships. 
Next year, there will be more responsiblility for Autry to perform 
see AUTRY, page 17 








