
Education cuts -page 3 

Doctor says 3rd implant more routine than others 
By BOB VONDERHEIDE 
Editor-in-Chief 
LOUISVILLE, Ky.-By the time Dr. William DeVries snipped it out yesterday morning, the dying heart was yellow, flabby, and almost useless. 
In its place-and in record time­surgeons sewed in the J arvik-7, a man-made heart of plastic and aluminum that made Murray 
JPW
Haydon the world's third person to owe his life to a permanent ar­
This weekend Notre Dame 
tificial heart. 
juniors had a long-awaited op­
"The heart is working perfectly .. 
portunity to share their college 
. his vital signs are stable and 
life with parents, as the 33rd an­
everything appears to be in great 
nual Junior Parents Weekend 
shape," said George Atkins, 
went without a hich. Every
spokesman for Humana Heart In­
event, from registration to the 
stitute International. 
Sunda_v brunch, was successful 
Doctors also expressed hope that 
At hall parties,
the 58-year-old retired autoworker 
parents attached faces to names
will become the first recipient to 
of rommates and dorm friends
make a full recovery. William 
they had heard of so many
Schroeder, 52, who received an ar­
times.

tificial heart in November, has subsequently suffered· three strokes 
Junior parents never did have and a mild seizure and has not left a chance to see what real South the hospital. Barney Clark, the Bend weather is like, because first to receive the Jarvik-7, died in just when they got here, it too I983 after a courageous 112-day put on a show that lasted the struggle. weekend. 
Institute chairman Dr. Allan Lansing said Haydon came through surgery with no significant bleeding and required no blood transfusions. "His color is ex­cellent," Lansing said. "It was a very successful morning." 
He said the atmosphere in the operating room was calmer than during Schroeder's surgery. 
"This was a much more routine operation," Lansing said. " When it was all over, everybody said, 'Man, that went well.'" 
Robert Jarvik, the heart's inven­tor, said he talked to Haydon's family after the surgery and "they were looking very relieved." 






Freshman wants election nullified 
By DAN McCULLOUGH student body can vote on whether News Editor or Pot to recognize tile election. Because Funai said he is 
Freshman Ed Funai doesn't challenging the election under the believe last week's student body "Initiative" section of the con­presidential election was legitimate stitution,"only 50 percent plus one" and wants it nullified and the votes of the student body would have to recast. vote in support of the referendum 
"Since there were only a limited for the election to be performed number of candidates, and with on­again. ly 24.3 percent of the student body If challenged under the "Recall" voting for Bill Healy, and plus the section, Funai would need a two­restraints put on Pat Browne and thirds majority of the student body J oanie Cahill, we don't think it was to have a new election. a real election,'' he -said. Student Body President Rob Ber­
tino said initially there was some 

There are "at least a dozen" peo­speculation as to whether the plan ple working with him on this, said would be covered by the "Recall" or Funai. " I've talked to a few people '~Initiative" section of the con­and and the response was fairly stitution, but it has been decided positive." that it would come under the 
"Initiative" section. 

The student government con­Bertino said Funai's possible stitution states that if 15 percent of challenge is completely within the the student body, which would be rules of the student government approximately 1, 100 signatures, constitution. sign a petition to have a referen­dum to recall the election, the entire see ELECTION, page 3 
Basile to head Scholastic 
By JOHN FLORY 
News Staff 
Junior Jim Basile, from Philadelphia, Pa., has been named the 1985-86 ~ditor-in-chief of Scholastic magazine. 
Basile, a government and inter­national studies major, has worked for Scholastic for two years and is currently the news editor. 
Basile cited the "enlarging staff' as one of several changes in the magazine's format. 


Basile emphasized the need for a "More in-depth stories," are need­publication that the student body ed, said Basile, as well as "more can "look forward to, and expect." relevant" stories. He would like to see bi-weekly Overall, Basile seeks to "increase publication, possibly to be (Scholastic's) publishing and prin­distributed on Fridays. ting capacity," although the layout 
Regular interviews with "promi­of the magazine will undergo Iitle nent figures" speaking at the change, a new typesetting process is University is also an objective. planned, he said. 

Saint Mary's committee works on problem of social justice 
Editor's Note: lhts article i1· mission," and said the church has dying justice issues around the Bellalta, a Notre Dame architecture Century," conducted by Hohl, is 
1 the(irst of a three-partseriese.'­become very involved in social world and has sponsored several ec­professor, and Notre Dame divided into two parts exploring the I amining Saint tvfwy ·) concern justice since the 70s. lectures. However, this year, there graduate student Isabel Donoso roles of peace today. The first is a 1 with social ;ustice. Tomorrow:~ Two years after the Justice will be fewer speakers than in years presented a case study of Chile at series of lectures by professors 1 ston· will preview upcoming Education Committee was formed, past in the hope that with more two Human Rights Evenings. from various departments defining 1 events and Wednesday·~ article it was decided increased awareness publicity attendance will improve, Also, the film "The Weavers; peace from the perspective of their 
1
will examine groups created to of justice issues and the opportuni­Bellalta said. Wasn't that a Time!", a commen­own studies. The second half of the 
j
better understand and achieve ty for active ministry in them was 
tary on social injustice in the course consists of an examination social justice needed at Saint Mary's. This led to United States, was shown. of practical ·peacemaking by the j
the formation of the Justice Educa­Social Last spring the group organized students. By KIMBERLY TRENNER tion Office, which directs its efforts a response to a draft of the U.S. "The Quest for Human Rights", Staff Reporter towards education, experience, Justice Catholic Bishops' pastoral letter, taught by McElroy, encompasses a ~ 
reflection and action in social "The Challenge of Peace: God's wide range of human rights issues, 
In 1979 the Justice Education justice issues. atSMC Promise and Our Response." Other from racial injustice to the coif war Committee was formed by a group The Saint Mary's Justice Educa­events included Days for Peace, the -nuclear debate. The course em­of concerned Saint Mary's students tion Office and the Justice Educa­film "Three Minutes to Midnight," phasizes individualized learning and faculty in response to a then re­tion Committee have developed Last year, Human Rights Even­and voter registration drive. and individual faculty-student in­cent bishops' synod mandate that courses and sponsored lectures, ings, which dealt withhumanrights This semester there is a new teraction. "those who enjoy the benefits of a workshops, and films related to violations and the Coltege's series of one credit peace and There is also a three-credit course Catholic higher education have the relevant justice issues. response, were sponsored by the justice courses. "People and offered, "Christians, Compassions obligation to provide our society There are two groups within the committee. Three lectures by Notre Justice" is designed as a foil-up and Global Concerns," which is with leadership in matters of justice committee; a human rights group, Dame Government Professor Peter course for participants in the Ur­taught by Sister Mary Turgi. The and human rights." coordinated by Saint Mary's Walsha, O'Neill "Education for ban Plunge or in relation to any ex­course is meant to provide students 
Current Justice Education Coor­Business Professor Jerry McElroy, Justice" Professor Denis Goulet, perience related to social injustice. with a basic understanding of the dinator Esmee Bellalta, a Notre and a peace group, coordinated by and McElroy on South Africa, Taught by Esmee Bellalta, the theology upon which the church Dame associate professor of ar­Reference Librarian Robert Hohl. Brazil, and the Caribbean, respec­course is divided into three areas of bases its involvement in justice chitecture, calls the study and pur­The human rights group, utiliz­tively, were sponsored last refernce; reflection, study, and ministry, and encourages students suit of social justice at the College ing the theme "Interrelationships semester. solutions toward action. "a very specific part of the sisters' and Community Solidarity," is stu-Last spring, Professor Jaime "Peacemakers in the Twentieth see JUSTICE, page 3 
L________________________________________________________________ _ 
r---------~--~~~------~--------------------------------~~-------~·--~­
The Obserwr Monday, February 18, 1985 --page 2 
f 
,~ 
r 
r 
f 
r 
~ 


In Brief 
Campusnet office hours have been changed for the last week in February. Beginning Wednesday and continuing through March I, Campusnet will be open each Monday, Wednes­day and Friday from 10 a.m. to I p.m. The office will also be open Fridays from 2:30 to 5 p.m. Also, the office will be open each Tuesday and Thursday from II a.m. to 5 p.m. Regular business 
hours-9 a.m. to 5 p.m.-will resume March 4.-The Obser\'er 
A truce has been called between warring factions at the University of Kansas. Hostilities between the Gay and Les­bian Services of Kansas and the Young Americans for Freedom reached "dangerous levels" and prompted leaders from both sides to release a joint statement calling for a ceasation of harassment and promising "to deal with this matter in a rational manner."-The Observer 
President Reagan, returning to the White House yesterday after a four-day vacation, says he feels justified making frequent trips to his California ranch because "you give up an awful lot of privacy" serving in the Oval Office. Reagan said the demands of the presidency accompany him wherever he goes. "And I look at it in another way -at my age, how many more years do I have to go to the ranch and enjoy the ranch," the 74­year-old president said. After enjoying warm termperatures and sunny skies at his mountaintop spread, Reagan was greeted by 44­degree, overcoat weather back in the capital. His major appoint­ment this week is a meeting Wednesday with British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. -AP 
Of Interest 
The Thomas J. White Center for Law and 
Government of the Notre Dame Law School, in conjunction with the St. Thomas More Society of Notre Dame, will sponsor a lec­ture today by Howard T. Markey, chief judge of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. The talk will be at noon in Room 10 I of the Law School.-The Observer 
An informational meeting for all class officer candidates and off-campus commissioner will be tonight at 7 in the New Orleans Room of LaFortune. A mandatory meeting will be tomorrow. -The Observer 
The Phone-a-Thon for the South Bend Women's Care Center begins tonight and will continue until Thursday and will begin again next week. The phone-a-thon will last from 6:10 until 9:30 each night and require !50 volunteers to assist in the call­ing. The two top callers will receive a free spring break trip to Daytona Beach and all participants and the residents of the dorm whose representatives earn the most will be invited to a free film and party. Anyone interested in volunteering is asked to report to the Development Offices (second floor of the Administration Building) at 6: 10 tonight, or call Bill at 283-3002 or Otto at 283­7735 or 234-0363.-The Observer 

_Weather 
More snow likely today as the temperature is expected to rise to the low 30s. Tonight and tomorrow, partly cloudy. Low in the mid teens. High Tuesday in the upper 20s. Cool Wednesday with highs in the 30s and a low in the teens to the low 20s. A little warmer Thursday and Friday _with a chance of ram or snow. Highs in the 40s with lows in the 20s. ­
AP 

The Observer 
De,ign Edi!or ............ Troy Illig
The Observer ( l'SPS S99 l-4000) is 
De,ign Assistant. ...... Andi Schnuc~
publish~d Monday through Friday and 
Typeseller ................ For Sale 
on hom~ f<X>tball Saturdays, except 
News Edi10r .......... John Men nell 
during exam and vacation periods. Th~ 
Copy Edilor ........•... John Heasly
Observer is published by the stud~nts of Spor!S Copy Edilor ...... Larry Burke
the Univc:rsit}' of Notre Dame and Saint 
Viewpoim Copy Editor. .. John HeaslyMary's Cnll~g~. Subscriptions may be Viewpoinl Layout. ..... John Mennell
purcha~d for 130 per year ( SlO ~r ~­
Typisls .. Amy, Vic, Bill, Mary & more
m~.t~r) by writing The Observer, P.O. 
NO Day Edi10r. ....... Mark Wime"
Box Q, Notre Dam~. Indiana 46SS6. 
Ad Design ........ Suzanne La Croix
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction 
Kevin Murphy right~ are reserved. 



It takes a lot to close ND 
Blizzard warning today. Snow, heavy at tirrJes, with strong winds causing considerable blowing and drifting sno11·, high around 10. 
The weather word wasn't "unpredictable" a little 
more than seven years ago. This weather forecast of 
Jan. 26, 1978 was 100 percent correct. More than 15 
inches of snow fell on the South Bend area that 
Thursday. 
The wind whipped across the campuses at an 
average of 27 miles per hour, causing drifts of up to 
five feet, and the average temperature was 27 degrees. 
From under this blanket of snow, which by the next 
day was 32 inches deep, neither Notre Dame nor Saint 
Mary's stirred, except for food. Both schools were of­
ficially closed Thursday, Friday, and Monday. This 
was the longest period in the history of both in­
stitutions that classes had been cancelled officially 
because of inclement weather. 
Besides the disaster of cancelled classes, a malfunc­
tioning cable caused a power outage Sunday, Jan. 29. 
Some dorms lost electricity, others were without heat 
or hot water. Roads were impassable, which kept 
much of the grounds crew working around the clock 
in eight-hour shifts. 
Almost a year to the day before this closing, the 
College shut down for the first time in its history and 
the University cancelled classes for the first time in 59 
years. Both schools clo'sed on Friday, Jan. 28, even 
though a relatively small amount of snow had fallen. 
Low temperatures and high winds combined to im­
mobilize the area with a minus-70 degree windchill 
factor. 
On this historic occasion classes and office hours 
were cancelled, and the ACC and the bookstore were 
closed, although the Rockne Memorial remained 
open. The Huddle tried to grill up its huddleburgers as 
usual, but had to close early because of a shortage of 
help. At the request of Father James Burtchaell, the 
university provost at the time, the library kept open its 
doors. "Conserver" signs were placed on the milk 
machines, but other than that, the dining halls served 
the students routinely. 
Last week 17.5 inches of snow dropped on South Bend. Winds raced at an average of 14 m.p.h. Last Tuesday they were at their fastest, a chilling 23.9 
m.p.h. And to the dismay of many students and facul­ty members alike, school went on as usual with only random class cancellations. 
As students trekked over mounds of snow, that rivaled the Hi mala) as, to get to classes, the dining halls, and the library this week. they must have wondered why. In 1967 students probably pondered the same thing. A blizzard struck the Midwest at the end of Christmas break but it did not delay registra­tion or the opening of the semester. reports in Scholastic reveal that there were major snow storms in November 1940 and January 1873. 
So what does all this mean? Was last week just another week that eluded the record books? Did these past storms provide support for school closings or just the opposite? 
From this weather data and reportJ from the Notre 

TYPING 
Term Papers Resumes Letters Manuscripts Word Processing 
Call Chris at: 
234-8997 
.: 



fi!······'R~~~~·;~··H~·;;··l~J 

· Styling J 

531 N. Michigan St., ~ Phone 233-4957 IQi 
...................................................~ 

SObering

Advice .. 

cansa~v
.. 
alife ~ .. • 
'·'-· 
..· 


Dame Archives, it is obvious that the snow, wind and cold were more crippling in years past. More snow buried the campus, taller drifts impeded any attempts at plowing, and the air was raw. 
Then again, the University was increasingly more self-sufficient the farther back in history one looks. More faculty and students lived on campus; therefore, the hazard of the roadways was not as serious a con­sideration. For example, in 1873, the student-faculty population totaled only 720, and most resided on cam­pus. 
Besides contemplating the danger of staying open, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's could be considering the cost of an official holiday in 1985. 
The schools would have to pay employees more than their standard salary to come to work on such an occasion. 
Another major concern could be discipline and con­trol of alcohol abuse if classes officially were cancell­ed. Local liquor stores and bars reported drastic in­creases in sales during the three-day holiday of 1978. 
All of this is not to say that last week did not merit at least one official day off. Neither is the conclusion that Father Hesburgh personally should have closed the University. If there is any definitive statement to be made, it is that when you are wading through the snow, remember that students ever since 1873 have shared your plight, as well as your contempt for In­diana winters. 

·Saint Mary's College Literary Magazine is now accepting: Stories • Poems • Photos Pictures • Artwork Submit to: ~GJUW!tB c/o Westler 310 Madeleva Hall  


The Observer Monday, February 18, 1985-page 3 



EUROPEAN Proposal would cut college funds 
TRAVEL 
We specialize in student trips! 
SEVEN SEAS TRAVEL 
• AIR • LAND • GROUP 
• TOURS 





1232-79951 
525 N. MICHIGAN 
Chris Skorcz 
StaffReporter 
President Reagan's new budget proposals could have a serious ef­fect upon Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 
In an effort to cut back on the nation's budget, Reagan has in­troduced several proposals which would drastically limit the amount of federal funding given to college students. Among the various ideas is the impostion of a maximum of $4,000 per eligible student and the restriction of aid to those families earning less than $32,000 annually. Professor Herbert Sim of the Finance and Business department 

:**** * * * * * * * * * * * ****i
f DISDNGUISHED STUDENT i f AWARD i 
~ ~ 
t~ The Notre Dame Alumni Association will be accepting nominations ~ "?' from February 1 to February 22 for the 4th annual Distinguished Student Award. The Distinguished Student Award was created to honor an out­~ standing senior student at the University based on the following criteria: 
i 
-tc -tc 1) Service to Notre Dame, 
-tc 
2) Service to the Community, and,
• 
-tc 
3) Good Academic Standing. 
-iC
•~ Applications can be obtained at the Alumni Association Office on t the second floor of the Administration Building, The Center for ~ Social Concerns~ and at Campus Ministry Office in the 
~ Memorial Library . : 
-+c Nominations must be submitted to the Association by Feb. 22, 1985. :
•
********************************************••*******~ 
SQUARE II 11 RECRUmNG 
Square D Company, a leading manufacturer of electrical and electronic equipment will be conducting on-campus interviews on Tuesday, February 26, 1985, seeking Accountants primarily for the Lexington, Kentucky operations. 
Square D Lexington is one of the largest in the company's network of production facilities. Occupying 500,000 square feet of space has more than 1400 engineering, accounting, production, marketing and adver­tising personnel. Products manufactured in Lexington include Loading Centers, Industrial Safety Switches and Metering Devices. Ifyou are interested in working for a progressive company that offers competitive compensation and benefit programs, and challenging employment opportunities, sign up with your placement office. 
An equal opportunity employer. 
SQUARED COMPANY 
recently commented on the possible ramification of such legislation and on the effect it would have on Notre Dame and St. Maris students. "There is no doubt that this new budget will have a major impact on some students. Not only here, but at most private schools in general, it is likely that some students wh<J" wanted to attend these schools may have to reconsider on the basis of financial difficulties. 
"However, the impact will not be immediate. It will grow gradually. After three or four years it may become a problem but the people already in school will not be af­fected very soon," Sim said. 
"The new budget will haw an ef­fect on public or state s.:hools. Many students will be encouraged to attend public schools. This is good for these schools because it produces more students and in­variabley student of higher quality. And yes, the state schools can han­dle more students." 
Election 
continuedfrom page 1 
Funai said he hopes to have the petition signed and the referendum passed by. March 10, the date the constitution states the student body elections must be finalized. "This isn't a final deadline, however," he said. 
Tonight, Funai said he plans to go before the Student Senate for an official ruling on his plan. 
But Bertino said, "If he wants an 
official ruling, he can just call me." 
The petition may be available for 
signatures in a few days. "We've 
got the petition and the file forms 
all ready and we hope to start this 
week," Funai said. 
The petition will be taken around "mostly to the residence dorms," sai<;i Funai. "We're going to try to keep it away from the dining halls. People go there with their friends and it's tough to get their atten­tion." As of yesterday afternoon at 3, 
Healy said he had not heard of Funai's plan. "I think the election is over now and we have been work­ing with Rob Bertino and Cathy David (current student body vice president) to set up the new ad­ministration. We're working very hard in setting up an administra­tion for next year," Healy said. 
Funaisaicl he is not doing this 

Justice 
continuedfrom page 1 
to examine issues of poverty and oppression in the light of their Christian faith. 
This year the Urban Plunge was a popular program. "The role of 
YOUR BEST DEAL TO FLORIDA 
YOU DRIVE (TO THE PARTY) WE DRIVE (THE PARTY STARTS HERE) 
$ 
94-5 per room tr_ 184-5 per room 1 04 -4 per room ;p 194-4perroom 
INCLUDES: FOR FURTHER INFORMATION AND SIGN UP 
• 
Round trip motor coach transportatior1 to beautiful Daytona Beach (WE DRIVE Packages Only) We use nothing but modem highway coaches 

• 
FREE refreshments available on the motor coach on the way down (to begin the party) 

• 
Eight Florida days/seven endless nights at one of our excit1ng oceanfront hotels. located nght on the Daytona Beach stnp Your hotel has a beautiful pool. sun deck. a1r conditioned rooms, color TV, and a nice long stretch of beach 

• 
A full schedule of FREE pool deck part1es every day 

• 
A full list of pre-arranged discounts.io save you money 1n Daytona Bec1ch 

• 
Travel representatives to insure a smooth trip and a good time. 

• 
Opt1ono1 side excursions to Disnev World. Epcof. deep sea fishing. party cruises. etc 

• 
All taxes and tips 


Open to oil ND/SMC students 
call 239-5136 or stop by 1.5 Lafortune, the Senior Class Office­Mon-Fri, 6-9 pm 
TttE GREATEST TIME-TttE BEST PRICE 


sponsored by the Senior Class 
The possibility of working one's 
way through college, Sim said, "is 
easier to do at a private school but 
it really depends on the individual. 
Some people can do it and some 
can't. The opportunities for earn­
ing enough money in the summer 
are not great." 
"You must remember that these are only proposals right now. It is up to Congress to go to work. They will take the budget apart; they will make changes. They will probably compromise on the figures, however." 
The proposed changes will apply to all students seeking federal assistance and low-interest loans. 
On such loans, the interest is waived until after the student graduates. Then after several months the student must begin repayment. 
"No proposals are aimed at par­ticular schools such as graduate and medical schools. They seem to apply generally to various students," Sim said. 
because H.:aly was elected. "It has 
nothing to do with him , 1here was 
nothing personal," he said. 
Both Browne and Cah1 I were 
unable to be reached for comment 
last night. 
The initiative section of the con­
stitution states: 
"A Petition bearing the valid signature of 15 percent of the -undergraduate student body shall cause Student Government to hold an election concerning the given issue. 
"If the initiative addresses the structure or organization of Stu­dent Government, or the activities of the University of Student Government, the election shall be held no less than two, no more than six, weeks from the date of the fil­ing of the initiative petition. If one or more regularly scheduled campus-wide electionsfall within the specified period, then the in­itiative election shall be held con­currently with a regular election. 
"If the initiative does not deal with the structure or organization of Student Government, or the ac­tivities of the University or Student Government, . the election shall be held concurrently with the next regularly scheduled campus-wide election not less than two weeks from the date of filing of initiative petition, even if this requires the election to be held one or more semesters later." 
the Urban Plunge is that of a very positive shock treatment. . . The plunge is a necessary attempt to of­fer something which students can use," said Bellalta. 
Bellalta said she finds there is a lot of social justice ignorance among students because of their middle-class backgrounds. "It is not the moral backgrounds they are lacking," said Bellalta, "the students need to be more inform­ed." The Urban Plunge, along with its new follow-up course, may pro­vide this information and offer students first-hand experience with the problems of justice. 
Bellalta said she believes the faculty can get involved in justice issues also. Saint Mary's has recent­ly joined an interdisciplinary Facul­ty Development project, funded by the Lilly Endowment, Inc. Along with faculty from six other col­leges, members of the Saint Mary's faculty will have the opportunity to meet and to discuss the American Catholic Bishops' pastoral letter, "The Challenge of Peace," and search for ways to incorporate these concerns into college life. 
"I think the biggest value is get­ting (social justice) into all the disciplines." 
Bellalta said she feels the key to the success of a social justice department would be to have an in­terdisciplinary structure. 

I I r r 
r 
r 
r r r 
r 
r 
r 
(
,.. 
r 
~ 
, ~ 
r 
r
,. 
~ 
r­
" 
r 
r r r r r­
r 
~ 
,.. 
r r" 
r 
r­
r 
r 
"r r
,. 
r 
~i~~~_()__i_Jl___t________________M_on-da-y,_&b_ru_~_1_8,_19-85__p_~_4 

--4f/ll/llllt-
Diversity is an integral part of good education 
What is an education? Is it simply attending classes, doing homework and thereby ex­panding one's knowledge of various subjects? Do we receive a "good" education by merely attending a top-notch school and doing the best we can? Possibly, but not likely. 
An education must be as diverse as the people and beliefs of the world in order to be valuable, or even viable. 
Why? Because the fairest possible judge· ment cannot be made without being informed ofas many different views as possible. 
So what Is a diverse education? It is mainly learning about as many different lifestyles, 
Michael Froning in the minority. 
values, beltels, cultures, and ways of doing things as possible. Institutions at which we can experience these differences play a large role In our society. To better understand how these institutions can provide a diverse educa­tion, it is best to examine one, like Notre Dame. 
Academically, Notre Dame is one of the finest universities in the country, yet it does not have the diversity many other top schools do. 
Racial, economic, religious and cultural di­versity on this campus are virtually non-exis­tent. Yet these differences are crucial to a true learning environment. 
Racial diversity, meaning black, white, red, green or whatever is necessary because it of­fers the experience of successful interaction in a stratified society such as ours. Sure, we can read about the different racial experi­ences ofour country, but the best way to learn them is to live them. 
The people ofdifferent races can provide us with the best insight and information about their racial heritage. In addition, professors of different races should be present because they can provide their insight in a trained pro­fessional way, thus complementing the stu­dents' Insight. 
The same is true of economic and cultural diversity. Experience to be gained from the 
different economic classes and cultures 
throughout the country and the world are 
best relayed by those in the particular eco­
nomic class or culture. Students and teachers 
from different backgrounds should be present 
in reasonable proportion to their overall 
percentage in our society. This would provide 
the greatest opportunity for others to learn 
and appreciate the different experiences 
available in our society and therefore,it is 
hoped, become as successful as possible in 
their interaction with others. 

Religious diversity among students and fac­ulty is imperative to a true learning environ­ment. For it is through the learning ofdifferent value systems and beliefs that we can reaffirm or reassess our own faith and values. And again, the best way to learn about other religions is to be taught by believers of that particular religion. 
This is not to say that these criterion alone constitute a "good" education. There are other contributing factors such as decent facilities, materials, and professors, not to mention financial security, all of which this University seems to have under control. Yet neither of these factors alone can provide us with a good education; they must be combined. Unfortunately, Notre D,!!me has a long way to go before a balance between these factors is achieved. But with all its re­sources, financial and otherwise, Notre Dame can surely overcome this major setback in its 
quest to become one ofthe most valuable uni­versities in the country. 
Therefore, to provide the true education our society demands, it is the responsibility of the educational systems ofthis country to take unprecedented measures to provide a diverse education for all who desire one. This means actively searching for, and recruiting, stu­dents and teachers ofdiverse backgrounds. In addition, it is up to the people of this country to demand a diverse education for themselves and for others in order for this to become a truly pluralistic society. 
Michael Froning is a freshman at Notre Dame and is a regular viewpoint columnist. 
=-.,.-The Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the oprnion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentanes. letters ar:~d the lnsrde Column present the vrews of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opmions on campus. through letters. is encouraged. 
Peter's Chair has not 
been filled by the best 
Recently The Observer reported that repre­sentatives from the sophomore class had pressed Father Hesburgh to extend an invita­tion to the Pope to speak at their class' com­mencement. 
This initiative has certain brio. 
Commencement marks a significant rite de passage for students and understandably they do not wish to see the University use the occa­sion to scratch the back of some lack-luster person to whom the University owes a favor. 
Ann Pettifer 
guest column 
·But what of this idea to ask the Pope? I have 
some grave reservations which I would like to 
share with the class of'87. 
Let me start with an axiom that is seldom 
heeded by Catholics. Our tradition has been 
frequently susceptible to the election oflousy 
Popes: the doctrine of papal infalibility seems 
to have been designed to confuse our grasp of 
this truth. 
This century has already seen a papacy which ought to bring a blush of shame to every Catholic cheek. Puis XII's record before, during, and after World War II reveals a scandalous accommodation of fascism. I learned recently that the estimable, London­based, Catholic Institute for International Re­lations started as The Sword of the Spirit, in 1940, founded by English Catholics distressed by Pius XII's failure to rouse Catholics to the dangers of fascism. They were also disturbed by the peculiar fascination that fascism exer­cised in Catholic cultures. It is now clear that the Nazi war criminal, Claus Barbie, the Butcher of Lyons, used the Vatican to escape to Bolivia. His was not an isolated case. The Vatican "rat-route" was well known to fleeing Nazis. 
Ah, the opposition will argue, we are blessed at the moment with a charismatic pope in the Chair of Peter. Everytime some­one reaches for the adjective charismatic, I get nervous. It is a double-edged sword and may convey more than the person using it in­tends. We too easily forget that virtually every demagogue in history was considered charis­matic by those who blindly followed. I know that I would rather have a good and just pope than a charismatic one. IsJohn Paul II just? Not very, I am afraid. 
Anyone interested in learning more about John Paul II would not have to dig very far. Just try reading the National Catholic Reader for a while; its Vatican affairs writer, Peter Hebblethwaite, is erudite, orthodox and run­ning scared of this pope and of what he is doing to the church. Then move on to Heb­blethwaite's book, The New Inquisition, which describes the Vatican's revival of the inquisitional machinery and mt'thod. The book reads like a horrifying pot-boiler. The trial ofHans Kung is bad enough· yet one can't help feeling that the pope has met his match in the vigorous, clever and disdainful Swiss. It is, however, the trial of the elderly, diffident and scholarly Dutch Dominican, Edward Schil­lebeeckx, that leaves one in a state of revul­sion. We condemn such travesties of justice when they happen in the Soviet Union, why on earth do we exempt the Vatican from censure? 
Schillebeeckx's crime, for which he Is being hounded, Is to have published a book in which he claims that, on the basis of the evidence, the priesthood as we know it, looks nothing like the priesthood of the early church. He goes on to say that in the absence ofa priest, a community should not be deprived of the Eucharist, even if this means ordaining an available woman or married man, post haste. Rome is unlikely to settle for anything less than a formal recantation. The class of '87 must ask Itself whether a man who would sup­press the findings ofacademic inquiry belongs at a university commencement. 
Asecond problem very close to Islamic im­ams in his repudiation ofsexual equality. The American Catholic hierarchy was given their orders by the pope to oppose the ERA. John Paul II believes in all that dreary, oppressive stuff about men representing the head, and women, the heart and wives submitting to their husbands etc.. He resolutely denies wo­men the right to define themselves. Women are so weary of being told that the genitals with which we are born are ofparamount im­portance in determining Christian identity. We know better. Like most fundamentalist men (Catholic and Protestant), the pope closes his eyes to the sexual egalitarianism whichJesus promoted and practiced. 
In a recent editorial on the Catholic Bis­hop's pastoral draft on economics, Christian­ity and Crisis picked up on the Bishop's theme that overcoming patterns of marginalization and powerlessness is "the most urgent demand of justice." The editorial continued, "Exclusion of women from ordination in the Catholic Church is the most basic institutional instrument of marginalization still extant, at least in the western world · not because it denies any individual woman the chance to exercise sacerdotal ministry, but because it says that all women are incapable of full par­ticipation in the life of the Catholic commu­nity." 
John Paul II is not a totem, not an idol, for ours is not a cultic religion. He is a historical person carrying his share of prejudices and human frailty. A mature Catholic is a Christian who sees conversion as an ongoing process for all of us and that includes the occupant of Peter's chair. 
Ann Pettifer is an alumna ofNotre Dame. 

Got an opinion? Share it! 
Viewpoint would like to hear from you. Ifyou would like to respond to something you've read in The Observer, why not write a letter to the editor. Letters should be well-written, typed, no more than 250 words in length and must bear the signature ofthe author. Letters which are not signed by the author will not be pub· Itshed. 
But letters are not the only way to voice your opinion in The Observer, Viewpoint also accepts guest columns. Guest columns should be well-written, typed, no more than 500 words in length and must bear the signature of the auwor. A guest column, unlike letter to the editor, should not be a direct response to another editorial. 
Editorial Board  
Editor 1n·Ch1ef.  Bob Vonderherde  
Managmg Ed1tor .  .. Mark Worscheh  
News Ed1tor .  Sarah Hamrlton  
News Ed1tor  Dan McCullough  
Samt Mary's Ed1tor .  Anne Monastyrslo.r  
Sports Ed1tor.  Mrchael Sullrvan  
Viewpomt Editor ..  Dave Grote  
Features Ed1tor .  Mary Healy  
Photo Ed1tor.  Pete Laches  

Both guest columns and letters to the editor can be mailed to The Obsen1er, P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556, or delivered to either our Notre Dame office in LaFortune Student Center or our Saint Mary's office in Haggar College Center. Please includeyour telephone number. 
Department Managers 

Business Manager. . Dave Tarclet Controller Dave Stephen itch Advertising Manager Anne Culligan Clfculat1on Manager .. Jeff O'Neill Systems Manager Mark B. Johnson Production Manager. . Chrrs Bowler Project Manager Amy Stephan 
Founded November 3,1966 



Sports Briefs 
The ND Boxing Club will be meeting for practice today at 3:45p.m. in the boxing room of the ACC.-The Observer 
The NV A indoor soccer tournament begins 
tonight. Participants should call the NVA office at 239-6100 for schedules. -The Observer 
An interhall swimming meet is being held by NVA tomorrow. Hall representatives must submit a list of entries and divers must provide a list of dives to Dennis Stark by today. For more information, call Coach Stark at 239-6222.-The Observer 
Gerry Faust will be speaking at an organizational meeting for potential freshman athletic managers tomorrow at 
6:30 p.m. in the football auditorium at the ACC. All interested freshmen are invited to attend. For more information, call the Stu­dent Managers Organization at 239-6482.-The Observer 
Knee injuries from sports will be discussed by Dr. Leslie M. Bodnar, senior consultant of the Notre Dame sport medicine program, tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the football auditorium in the ACC. Admission to the lecture is free.-The Observer 
Erik Hickey defeated Noble Levesque for first place in the NVA cross-country ski race. Hickey completed the two-mile course in 10:51. Cathy Robertson captured the women's top spot with a time of 13:06, which was good enough for fourth place over a II. -The Observer 
Monday, February 18, 1985-page 5 
Dominant squad 
B-P beats Farley, 45-32, to go 8-0 
By MICHAEL FLANNERY 
Sports Writer 

The streak continues. With a convincing 45-32 victory over Farley's A-team Thursday night, 
Breen-phillips'  A-team  ran  its  
record to a perfect 8-0.  
There  was  no  mystery  to  this  

contest. B-P simply outplayed Farley in every aspect of the game. Like every good team, B-P has a wide variety of weapons to throw at its opponents. Dava Newman makes a steal; Lisa Brown cuts for a back-door pass and a layup. Ann Curoe powers inside for two. These examples are only the begin­ning. 
Even the subs did the job. Valli Scott and Kitty Duffy came off the bench in the first half and split eight points, helping B-P take a 22­17 lead. This five-point margin was as close as Farley would get in the second half. 
. B-P blew the game open with eight quick points at the start of the third quarter, as Curoe and Kathy 
Saint Mary's swimming team falls to Illinois-Chicago over weekend 
By KATHLEEN NICHOLSON 
Sports Writer 
In its last dual meet of the 1984­85 season, the Saint Mary's swim team traveled to the University of Illinois at Chicago and suffered a 72-39 defeat. 
Although the defeat dropped the Belles' record to 0-5, the meet qualified nine team members for the NAIA National Competition in Indianapolis, which will be held from Feb. 28 through March 2. 
Freshman Jenny Pancratz won the 500-and 1000-yd. freestyle, breaking the current varsity record in the latter event. Junior Joyce Murtagh was able to capture the in­dividual 200-yd. freestyle event while contributing to the 200-yd. free relay victory along with team­mates Ellen Byrne, Megan Rafferty and Pancratz. 
Sophomore Kathleen Kennedy qualified for national competition in both butterfly events as she place second in the 100-yd. event. Freshman teammate Rafferty, in another outstanding performance, won the· 50-yd. freestyle which qualified her for yet another event at the nationals. 
Other national-bound Belles are team c'aptain Byrne in the 200-, 400-and 800-yd. freestyle relays, along with Anne Cushing, Margaret Mannion and Jennifer Veslick in the 400-yd. medley relay. 
Despite the Belles' disappointing team record for the 1984-85 year, Coach Dan Flynn feels that the team has shown great improvement over the season. 
"The season really is not a good indicator of a team's performance in an individual sport like swimm­ing," says Flynn. "The girls have been breaking records and we have almost half the team going to the nationals next week, so I am pleas­ed." 
With the nationals only a week and a half away, the team will be tapering down its workouts before 
It makes the trip to Indiana Univer­sity's natatorium. The Belles w:ll see some exciting individual and relay competition in Indianapolis, 
which may give them a perfect op­portunity to redeem themselves from their slightly disappointing team season. 
Hunter began to find room inside. Farley struggled, but could not recover from the outburst. When point guard Mary Borkowski foul­ed out early in the fourth quarter, Farley was left without its leading scorer, and any attemtped com­eback went with her to the bench. 
Farley enjoyed a slight height ad­vantage throughout the game, but was unable to exploit it. B-P was quicker and more aggressive inside. At guard, the B-P trio of Janice Monagle, Brown and Newman harassed farley constantly; on of­fense, they ripped apart Farley's 1­2-2 zone with their accurate outside shooting and crisp passing. 
In other Thursday night action, Walsh beat Lewis' A-team by a score of 41-25. Laura Gleason poured in 22 points for the winners. 
Pasquerilla East withstood a fourth-quarter rally to defeat Lyons, 35-30. Lyons scored 17 points down the stretch after get­ting only two points in the third quarter. 

SMC fencing team picks up win against Case Western 
By ANDREA LAFRENIERE 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's fencing team improved its record to 5-8 Satur­day in Cleveland, where it defeated Case Western Reserve, II -5. 
Coach Mike Weeks said he was pleased with the team's efforts and was particularly impressed with Mary Ann Castaneda's perfor­mance. 
"Marv Ann is doing really well," said Weeks. "She went 4-0 Saturday and has done well this season." 
The Belles had intended to fence in several bouts, but the other teams didn't show up, ruining Saint Mary's hopes of further improving its record at the meet. 
The Wayne State fencers beat Saint Mary's, 14-2, in Detroit on 
Feb. I and the Belles traveled to Angola, Ind., the following day, losing to Cleveland State,9-7, but defeating Tri-State,l4-2, giving the team a record of 3-5. 
At Oakland University in Detroit on Feb. 9, the· Belles fenced four bouts. Michigan•-Dearborn defeated the team, 12-4,and Detroit beat the Belles, 10-6. The women took a 15-1 victory over Oakland but lost at Ohio dropping the team's record to 4-8. 
Weeks, who fenced for four years at the University of Penn­sylvania, went to the NCAA Cham­pionships his junior year and was an alternate for the Junior World Team in 1982, is in his first year of coaching. 
He cites the team's lack of ex­
perience as the primary reason for 
its losses. Team captain Castaneda, 
a senior from San Diego, is the only 
member who fenced in high school. 
The others began fencing at Saint 
Mary's as novices, practicing with 
the Notre Dame fencing team until 
they gained enough experience to 
join the varsity team. 
Like most of the team members, 
Castaneda started fencing when a 
friend encouraged her to try the 
sport. 
"I went to boarding school and my 
roommate was captain of the 
team, "says Casteneda. "She got me 
interested." 
Junior Ann Raney from En­
dicott, N.Y., also was encouraged 
by her friends to try the sport. 
"A lot of my friends are fencers, 

and one of them convinced me to go novice,"Explains Raney. "The people at Notre Dame have a lot of · experience, and they help us out 
quite a bit." 
Weeks acknowledges that the 
team has made progress this 
season. 
"We've been inconsistent, but 
we're improving with every 
meet,"he says. 
The Belles will fence in their first 
home meet of the season this Satur­
day at the ACC. Weeks was hesi­
tant to make any guesses about the 
outcome, however. 
"WE've got some tough teams fo 
face,"says the Belles' coach. "No 
prediction." 

The Obsen'er Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Student Center, acct:pts classified advertising from 9 a.m. umil 4 p.m.. Mondav through friday. The Obserr,er Saini Mary's office:, located on the: third floor ,;f Haggar College Cc:mer, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. umil :\ p.m., Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must he prepaid. either in pt:rson or by mail. Charge: is I 0 cc:nts per five charac­
Classifieds 
ters erda ·. 
NOTICES 
EXPERT TYPING 2n·8534 AFTER 5:30 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8997 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
Expert typing service. Call Mrs Coker, 233·7009 
Professional Typing, Tina 232-8749. 
LOST/FOUND I 
... ····························· 
LOST: N.D. RUGBY LETTER JACKET IS STILL AT LARGE. REWARD FOR ANY INFORMATION LEADING TO THE AR· REST AND CONVICTION OF ITS CAP· TORS. PLEASE CALL J.R. REID AT 277·7581 IF YOU HAVE ANY KNOWL· EDGE OF ITS WHEREABOUTS. 
HELP!!! I lost my Uncle's walch. It was a s1lver Bulova Acutron with the inscription ·George Backhaus on the back. The band was broken off on the right side of lhe walcl1 face Please call Paul at 3300 or come up to 302 Keenan. Definate Reward SSS offered. 
Found:a SMC scnool ring at Junior For­mal call BiH x3267 
Losl; pair of gloves and hal left on bus after Chicago Trip, please bring to Dr. Hofman. 
LOST: ONE GOLD AND PEARL EARING. FRIDAY NIGHT. COULD BE ANYWHERE. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 284.5158. 
LOST; black onyx ring and man's razor out of yellow VW rabbit parked in lot east of. stadium; call 239-6423 wilh Info. 
Lost maroon scarf in Cushing Tues. 2/5. If found call Liz 1992. 
Help Lost I lost my keys at the brar or somewhere behind PW. My room­mates don't like me and keep locking me out. My rector gave me her kesy to my car so now I can't drive. (H.Vday. AGO) If you see a set of keys for room 522 on a ring with a blue plastic hook call Lou al4110 help. 
Still at Large; tan Patagonia down jacket XL, lasl seen at SMC clubhouse 2/8, with $500 in left pocket If you just said. "Hey, wait minule, there wasn't $500 when I took lhal jacket!" then either turn it into lost and found al lhe AD building or call me al 2474. How much does K· mart charge for a coat like lhis anyway? 
Crimestopper 213; Information leading to recovery of tan patagonia is this week's topic. Successful recovery will be rewarded with loss of guilt and chance to escape elernal damnation. Turn into NO lost and found and receive your secret code number. 
Los I; thick gold link bracelet if found, Please return to Katie 2919. REWARD 
offered.~ 
~-FO_R__RE_N_T~j 
Semi-furnished home, good neighbor· hood 255-3684/288·0955. 
WANTED 
Established band needs a bass player. Call Matt 2937 or Paul 1578. 
Ride lo Neward needed. Can leave any time after Thursday morning, March 14, Will share usual. Call Mike at 1745. 
Need riders to Kansas City lor Spring Break. Call Tom 1479. 
Need a qualified Pianist 10 give lessons to an NO student Call Rob 1076. 
Need ride/riders to PUrdue this weekend! Call Sherri 4298 
FOR SALE 
A~~;~··;;·E:··~~i;·~~·;~:··;;;~;ap;c,-c~·~·~·;;;y 
package $80. negoliable, call 4364 
Stereo and Video Equipment · all brand at wholesale prices. Tom 1527. 
Senior Class Ski Trip. selling my $25 reservation. call Pete at 4259, call after 12a.m. 

~~__T_IC_K_ET_S~ 
IF YOU GOT IT, I NEED IT !! I NEED FOUR (4) GA'S FOR THE BYU GAME. IF YOU CAN HELP THIS DAMSEL It; DISTRESS PLEASE CALL RAMONA AT 3714. 
PLEASE HELP! Need 4 or 5 BYU GAs. Will Pay BIG BUCKS .Woody I 188 
Need 2 GAs for MARQUETTE call ROSS 1897 
Need 5 GA or Student tix for BYU game1!! CaiiSMC5323 
Sister sent blank check. Need BYU or Wash. tix. call Bill2143 
PERSONALS 
Oar House; cold beer and liquor, carry out til 3 a.m. u.s. 31 n. one block south of Holiday Inn. 
Best time-best value; where; Daytona Beach!! When; Spring Break '85. Who; all nd/smc students. call 239· 5136 or stop by senior class office. 
1.5 LaFortune. Mon-Fri 6-9 p.m. 
Forget Florida!! Ski Aspen, CO. this spring break, and get a tan too. $397 includes transportation, 7 nights lodging, and a 6 day pass to all four of Aspen's mountains. If interested call 3630 or 3573 
If you got it, I need il. I need 4 ga's for the BYU game. If you can help lhis damsel in distress please call Ramona at 3714 
I have "come on down," now where do you want me to go?· Tony A. · 
That's the word from the Bird; Slide Slraigt1l. 
Marquette.' Need a ride this weekend? 2/22·241'm really going this lime. Share usual. Call Bob 4074 
...................... To th'e guy who sent me 5 dozen roses and 50 balloons; lhanks for a very special Thursday! Judy. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY MISS AMERICAN PIE! Youre finally legal. You almost forgot to tell us. Do you remember... Michigan passout ticket.. .lt was like a time warp! How about a pow-wow in the bathroom? Codeline Nightmare. Mish taught me how to dance Chemp the forgotten stooge-sea breeze. Mack the Knite...wanna go riding on the mal· terhorn or would you rather just swim thru a pot of cheese? Check the cashbox if you want a new truck. Zamboni. Love Tapir Sisters. 
LORI SHEMANSKI. Happy 19th. 2 days late. Love Noella. 
DOUBLE GOD ALERT. DOUBLE GOO ALERT. Oh, Mary's gods! 
Ride to Newark needed. Can leave any time after Thursday morning March 14. Will share usual. Call Mike al1745. 
Stephanie and Carolyn. y'all crazy on 
the phone. No wonder Bill like you. 
................. 
Short and Sweet you may be, but 
thanks for I he Valentine you gave me. 
Much love to you dear Sherry Green . 
NCC-1701 
Need riders to Kansas Cith tor Spring 
Break. Call Tom 1479 
............... 
Tom Darrow, Judy kline, Kathy Me· 
Conaghy, Joye Reno, Cathy Williard, 
Marjorie Dwane, Wendy Callahan, 
Caroline Berrettini, Beth Fitzpartick, 
Sue Dunbar, l;:rin Murphy, Andi Lantx, 
Cathy McNally, Mary Ellen Harr· 
ington, Laura Raab, Rita Audino, 
jeanine Powers, Scott Morrison , 
Mike Pope, bob OeBrouz, Larry 
Stevens, and lhe Darrow Family, 
Thanks for making my birthday so 
special. Love, Debbie. 
TR2; 21 times 2 equals 42 times 1 
equals 84. 
............ 
The Royal Order of the Quad plus one 
wishes our First Lady. Lisa Sitler, a 
Happy 20th . Beware of mountains 
big brolher is watching. Enjoy it, 
because after this year, February will 
be discontinued due to lack of in­
terest. Love The president, Dictator, 
Empress, and Jester. 
············ 
Hi, this is John, I have your purse and coat down here al the front door. 
Netchi baby-This one's for you, how could I every forget)'OU. Love, Your Favorite Cymbalist 
I am what I am and thai's all that 1 am!H!l!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 

The Observer Monday, February 18, 1985 -page 6 
Off Campus, Alumni, Pangborn lead in hockey 
By KEVIN HERBERT 
Sports Writer 
As the interhall hockey season 

reaches its closing stage, Off-Campus finds itself atop the Krause Division, while Alumni and Pangborn are tied for the lead in the Corrigan Division. 
Off-Campus, with a record of 3-0-1, is maintaining a one-half game lead over Grace (2-0-2). Tim Farrell, the coach of Off-Campus, says he is not too pleased with his teams perfor­mances this year, despite their im­pressive record. 
"We have not played very well at all thus far this season," notes Far­rell. "We have been fortunate to not have played, with the excep­tion of Grace, a very good team so far." 
To try to remedy his squad's shortcomings Farrell says he has scheduled several practices. 
"We just haven't jelled," he says. 

"We have three practices coming 
up. I hope we can come together in 
time for Dillon and Holy Cross/St. 
Ed's." 
Grace, currently second in the Krause division, has been powered by the superb goaltending of Pat Chura. Grace will, however, have to pass Off Campus in the league standings to end up in first, a task which Grace team captain Mike Mulligan says he does not think his team can do. 
"I think our team will make the playoffs finishing second in our division behind Off Campus," says Mulligan. 
Holy Cross/St. Ed's (3-1-1) has been aided by the goaltending of Frank Latuda, but must win its re­maining two games to make the playoffs. 
In fourth place in the Krause division is Dillon with a record of 2-1-1. After Dillon are 
game without the services of guards Scott Hicks and Dan Duff, both of
Duke 
whom were in the infirmary with the flu. As a result, Rivers was
continuedfrom page 8 
forced to play the entire 40 minutes 
Notre Dame did manage a against Amaker and Dawkins, who 37-31 rebounding advantage in were all over Rivers as soon as he the game, but the Irish missed crossed midcourt. several easy shots inside, and they "We knew coming into the often were denied a second oppor­ballgame that David Rivers was the tunity to shoot. key to their ballclub,"Amaker said. 
"I thought defensively we were "We felt that if we could contain excellent, especially in the first him and try to control him as best eight minutes," Krzyzewski said. as possible, we had a good chance "We just didn't allow any second of holding down our opponent." shots, and Notre Dame (usually) While the Blue Devils did not en­gets a lot of second and third shot tirely contain Rivers, they were able opportunities." to keep him from penetrating inside 
The Irish could have benefited often and creating opportunities from extra shots, since they manag­for himself and his teammates in ed to make only 41 percent of their the key. Most of Rivers' and field goals in the game. The Blue Barlow's points came from outside Devils shot only 39 percent in the jump shob. second half, but ended the game The Irish, who will meet Loyola with a 55 percent mark. (Md.) tonight , are now 14-7 this 
Notre Dame played Saturday's season. Duke in now 19-4. 
THE EARLY.~
BIRD... --~/ 
PREPARE FOR: Cia•••• atartinr:~ Feb. 24 
CAT 
Call Days Ennin1s & Weekends 
1717 E. South Bend Ave.
~-H 

South Bend, Indiana .46637
MPIAN (219) 272-4135 
Cavanaugh/Howard (1-2-1), Mor­The loss puts Sorin (2-3) in fifth There are two interhall hockey rissey (1-2-2), Flanner (1-3), and place while moving Morrissey (3-2) games this evening, both in the Keenan (0-4). closer to the lead in fourth. Krause division. Keenan will take 
Alumni and Pangborn are tied The remaining Corrigan teams, on Off Campus, while for the Corrigan division lead with Carroll and Fisher, are deadlocked Cavanaugh/Howard will square off records of 3-0. By the end of in the cellar with records of0-4. against Grace. tomorrow night, however, one of 
these two teams will claim sole possession of first place as they square off Tuesday night in the ACC rink. 
Pangborn coach Mike Barry says his team will have to improve its defense if it is to defeat Alumni. 
"Our offense has carried us so far this year," says Barry. "Tomor­row night we will have to slow the tempo and improve our defense if we are to beat Alumni." Stanford Hall is only a half-game out of first place with a record of 3­1, its only loss coming to Alumni. Stanford coach Tim Connors says his team's outlook is hopeful for the playoffs. 
"We are a small team with good defense and goal tending (J. A. Lacy)," says Connors. "If we can keep healthy, we have a very good shot at making the playoffs." 
In the only Corrigan league game Thursday, Zahm handily defeated Sorin "We held a 2-0 lead into the se­cond period, but then the defense broke down," said Sarin's Ed Laboe. "This led to our ultimate 

defeat." 

Summer Internships 
Continental Illinois National Bank (Chicago) 
All interested juniors with Accounting, Finance or MIS majors sign up in the Career and Placement Office for February 21 interviews 
ExdtJng and Challenging Career Opportunities 
Master of Business Administration 
A small. highly selective MBA program has • management tra1nee with an been designed by The Ohio State University 1nternat1onal assignment. Chase to provide professional management Manhattan Bank education to students with nonbusiness • assistant product manager, Pillsbury academic backgrounds. This tW?·year full-time • financial analyst. Hewlett Packard program • inventory control manager. IBM Corpor«tion 
• 
facilitates a high level of student and • account executive. Mernll Lynch faculty-student interaction • consultant. Pnce Wate.house 

• 
has no prerequisite cour.e work • management tra1nee · 111th an international 

• 
is especially attractive tc students with assignment. Procter and Gamble liberal arts. scientific. and other For a brochure describing this program and nonbus1ness backgrounds application information. please 

• 
is built upon a tightly integrated study of contact: foundation management tools and 


Director, MBA Programs
concepts • offers the opportunity to concentrate in one 
The Ohio State University 
112 Hagerty Hall
or two management fields through 
1775 College Road
elective course work 
Colurnbu$. OH 4l21o-1399
• is offered by one of the top 25 schools or 
614-422-8511
management in the country and is 
accredited by the American Assembly of Collegiate Schools of Business 
Last year's graduates were very successful in finding career opportunities. Examples of positions they selected include the following: 
OOlJJ 
• 
assistant to the ctlief executive officer. Midland Mutual Life The Ohio State University 

• 
field marketing manager, F'.jlrd Motor Company 





The Observer Monday, February 18, 1985-page 7 
TUI!~~,. $AYI PLANTS••P.LANTS••PLANTS••PLANTS••PLANTS•• PLANTS I
------------------~r---------------------------------· 


1!1'1'!111!8~ ..,.• .._ 
I

DISCOUNT COUPON 
I 
I 
I

10% off on purchases under $5 FOR YOUR
announces I 
15% off on purchases over $5 
PLANT NEEDS I 
I 

Discounts up to 15% clip and save this ad!! I I
2nd Floor LaFortune 
I
EXPIRESll I '85

Open M-F, 3-7 p.m. 
DIAL 283-4242 I 
Moo -Sat 12:30 -5:30 I 
TUI!~~,. $AYI 
__________________..,..___________...;;.._....;_, -~~r;;. Order corsages and wrapped flowers in advance I
• 1!1 '1'!111!81.WP -NMN. ~ 
·---------------------------------­
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 

Zeto 
ARE" EARTH TRCMO~'S FREQUENT IN THIS ~'RT 
Kevin Walsh 
HtT 





Bloom Connty Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
... IJ(JT IT WA5... 



Campus 
3:30 p.m. -Lecture, "Let Them Eat Rice: Agricultural Development and Agricultural technology in Columbia," Dr. Elizabeth Hansen, CUNY, Room 131 Decio, sponsored by Depart­ment of Anthropology. 
4:30 p.m. -General Meeting, Environmental Concerns Organization, Library of CSC. 7 p.m. -Film, "Fellini Satyricon," Annenberg Auditorium. 
7 p.m. -Informational Meeting, Off Campus 
Commissioner Candidates, New Orleans Room, 
LaFortune, sponsored by Ad Hoc Election Com­
mittee. 

7 p.m-AIESEC Meeting, "Macintosh training," 
Microcomputer Room, Math Building. 
8 p.m.-Lecture, "The Future of Notre Damme," Father Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., Library Auditorium, sponsored by Students Activities Board, Free. 
To our readers: 
"Zeto," a campus-oriented comic strip, begins in today's Observer. Created by Notre Dame sophomore Kevin Walsh, "Zeto" looks at the lighter side of life at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Walsh lives in Carroll Hall and is majoring in English and education. "Zeto" replaces "Tank McNamara." 
lheFarSide Gary Larson 


The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS  34 More docile  60 Fish-eating  11 Lose self  
1 Ariz. river  36 WWII area  bird  control  
5 Say suddenly  37 Small rolls  61  Young eel  12 Gorin or  
(with "out")  38 Kitchen knife  62 Puerto- Stravinsky  
1 0 Sponsorship  63 Foxx  13 Bribes  
14 Former Ugan·  39 Old Eng. poet  64 Men of vision  18 Yells  
dan leader  40 Football player  65 Large amount  22 Having wings  
15 Uncanny 16 Company symbol·  41 Fe or Monica 42 Surface for inscriptions  DOWN  24 Giant 26 Fr. priestly titles  
17 Final oppor· tunity 19 On the peak 20 Realm 21 Solons 23 Roster 25 Orchid tuber  43 Kilts 45 In high spirits 47 Under to a poet 49 Sharp in taste 50 Greek 53 Used a certain golf club  1 Strong wind 2 Moslem leader 3 Speak imperfectly 4 Island group 5 Command 6 Yarn measure  27 Steamer or Saratoga 28 Together 29 Bill of fare 31 Purloined 32 Desired 35 Intended  
food  7 Vases  
26 Kind of club  57 Small liquid  8 Elmerand  38 Recreation  
30 Gaudy  container  Grantland  activities  
33 Scot. hill·  58 Fla. resort  9 Adolescent  39 Speaks  
sides  city  10 Click beetle  imperfectly  

41 The Man 51 Grow weary 42 Bushy plant 52 Wheel hub 44 Staggered 54 Follow 46 Hoglike closely 
mammals 55-homo 48 -Selassie 56 Indian Ocean 50 Declare to vessel be true 59 Mal de­
Friday's Solution 
T A 8 "I 0 R SIOIN AHA 8
EGAN L 0 TIT 0 M 0 L E A I R S E A RIT RUMP E T L 0 N E S 0 M EIIIIP 0 S E S 
1-E A T. s E c 'I
8AYLOR.THE SHIP 
ELF.LESSER CODA 
A L I MIN T. A s p I R E s
TOFU TARTER.NAT AWED AGA.RA88LE 

CLEF s• T I Lilli I R I S H-F 0 0 iS 0 R E 
8 U G L E C A L L S T W I G I S L E A R E A S R E D 0 S T U D 8 AIS R A 0 R E S 

©1985 Tribune Media Services. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
--~ ---------~-­

--~------------~-­
Monday, February 18, 1985 -page 8 
S~orts 


Blue Devils use early spurt to down Notre Dame in Byrne Arena, 81-69 
By PHIL WOLF -game award-the first time a Dawkins had 15, Dan Meagher had Assistant Sports Editor player from the losing team has 13, and Jay Bilas had 10 points. won the Meadowlands award. The 6-8 Bilas also grabbed II re­
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.-:­Despite Barlow's high-scoring bounds, several of them in the The Notre Dame basketball team game and 16 additional points by opening minutes of the game. played a close game for 36 minutes David Rivers, the Blue Devils' "Bilas' job on the boards early set against the Duke Blue Devils on baianced attack was too much for the tone,"Duke coach Mike Saturday afternoon at the Notre Dame to overcome. Five Krzyzewski said afterward. "We Meadowlands Arena. Unfortunate­Duke players scored in double were really worried coming into the ly for the Irish, though, the Blue figures. ballgame that we would not be able Devils had jumped out to a David Henderson led the Blue to rebound with Notre Dame." 10-point lead in the first four Devils' scoring with 18 points, 
see DUKE, page 6

minutes of play, and the Irish never Mark Alarie had 17, Johnny 
came closer than five points aft~r 
that. 

Irish have height edge
The Irish missed their first six shots in the game, while the Blue Devils began their 10-point spurt, en route to a 72-percent shooting 
in Loyola game tonightperformance in the first half. Notre Dame made only 43 percent By JEFF BLUMB Greyhounds play a relatively weak of its shots in the half and trailed Assistant Sports Editor schedule, tonight's game takes on by 10 at the intermission, 39-29. special significance for them. 
Duke opened its lead to as much It certainly won't be a battle of "This will be their biggest game as 15 in the second half and never giants tonight when the of the year," says Irish head coach let the Irish closer than seven points Greyhounds of Loyola (Md.) race Digger Phelps. "But it will als.o be a as the nation's seventh-ranked into the ACC for a 7:00 contest big game for us in a lot of ways. We team coa,ted to an HI-69 victory. with the Notre Dame basketball have to get back on the winning 
"Every time we had a chan~.:e to team. Loyola, although 12-11 on track. We have seven games left make a run," Notre Dame coach the year playing out of the ECAC and we just have to go after all Digger Phelps said, "we put Metro Conference, starts a line-up seven starting with Loyola." ourselves in the negative with with no one over 6-5. The Irish may or may not have (poor) shot selection or with tur­the services of guards Scott Hicks nover situations. We never got it The Greyhounds' tallest players and Dan Duff tonight. Both missed under five, and that was our goal at are two 6-7 freshmen reserves and the Duke game becuase of the nu the start of the second half'. their center, sophomore Tommy and are still weakened somewhat by 
The Observer/ Johannes Hacker 

About the only bright spot for Lee, stands an imposing 6-4. the virus. 
Senior co-captain Mary Beth Schueth, a contender for academic 
Notre Dame was junior Ken Loyola's other frontliners are Kevin IRISH ITEMS -The Irish, but 
all-America honors, led the Notre Dame women's basketball team 
Barlow'sgame-and career-high 27 Carter, a 6-5 junior, and Aubrey more specifically freshman David 
to a 66-53 win over North Star Conference-rival Detroit yesterday 
points, coupled with II rebounds. Reveley, a 6-3 sophomore. A pair Rivers, are featured in the current 
in the ACC. Schueth had game-highs in points (17) and rebounds 
Barlow's play earned him the Coca of sophomores, 6-3 David Gately issue (March) of Sport magazine .. 
(10) in the win. Mike Sullivan's game story is below. 
Cola Company's player-of -the and 6-1 Tom Gormley, make up the . Following Marquette's win over 
Greyhound backcourt. Dayton Saturday in Milwaukee, 
Gatelv i~ I oyola'~ le:1clin!! ~corer, .:-mrent standings in round-robin 
contributing 14.7 point-. rer game play of the Midwest independents 
to the Greyhound attack are Notre Dame 2-2; DePaul 2-2; 
Schueth scores 17 
Senior :>.1o Hick~ a 5-9 guaru, Dayton 2-2; Marquette 1-1. The 
chips in with 14. J POI!lt~ .,f his own. Irish still have a home date with the 
By MIKE SULLIVAN with it were more of our doing than Dayton's loss to Loyola on Friday, Yet while havi~.; seen action in Warriors before closing their seasn 
Sports Editor theirs." puts the Irish in a good position in every contest, Hicks has started on­with a game against the Flyers at 
fhe effectiveness of the press the NSC as they ready for Wednes­ly one. UD Arena. Phelps feels that the 
The University of Detroit proved critical for the Irish, who day's game in the ACC against the Loyola is a team with plenty of NCAA Tournament Selection 
women's basketball team has made allowed the Titans to stay within Lady Ramblers, who appear to be firepower, averaging 70.7 points a Committee will take two of these 
no secret of the fact that it relies striking distance by missing a NO's main rival for the conference game, while yielding 69.8 to its op­four teams for this year's 64-team 
heavily on a full-court pressure number of easy shots and by mak­title. The game begins at 7 p.m. ponents. And, because the affair. 
defense for its success. So it-was no ing just six of 16 foul shots. 
surprise that the Lady Titans were however, when the Titans tried to 
pressing from the start of yester­make a game of it, Notre Dame was 
ND women defeat Detroit, 66-53 
Chapman-led hockey team collects 
day's game in the ACC against able to force them to make some Coach Mary DiStanislao's Irish. costly turnovers. "We haven't been a pressing 
first. road victory against Marquette
Notre Dame, on the other hand, team, but we've gotten back into 
has always been known as a team some games and blown open some By ED DOMANSKY three goals and three assists to pace some textbook passing in the Mar­that is comfortable with a controll­with a press," said Irish forward Sports Writer Notre Dame. quette end of the rink and strong ed half-court game. So it was a big Mary Beth Schueth, who led all The win improved Notre Dame's goaltending from Lukenda. 
surprise when the Irish switched to scorers with 17 points. "As Coach MILWAUKI:.I:. The Notre record to 8-16-1 while Marquette is A defensive breakdown with less a pressure defense against the told us in the lockerroom after the Dame hockey team made successful even at 11-11-l. than a minute to play in the first visitors. game, the press saved us." use of the power play on Friday The two teams meet again period enabled the Warriors to 
The surprise worked for Notre It was a four-minute spurt late in night as it scored on four of six op­tonight at 7:30 at the ACC. notch their lone goal on a Dame as it turned to the press to the first half that put Notre Dame portunities en route to a 9-4 The Irish were playing away breakaway by Joe Donlon. break open a close game and us­in command. With Detroit leading thrashing of Marquette at the from home for the last time this John Nickodemus made it 1-0 ed it again to stop a Detroit com­23-21 on the strength of some good Wilson Park Arena. season, and the triumph . marked for Notre Dame at 5:59 when he eback attempt on the way to an im­outside shooting, the Irish began to Notre Dame head coach Lefty just their first victory away from tapped in a shot by Steve Whitmore portant 66-53 North Star Con­harass the Titans in the backcourt. Smith had been somewhat displeas­the ACC this season. Notre Dame that had bounced off the post. ference victory. The tactic worked well as the ed with his team's ability to control finishes its road season 1-11-I. Just 2:58 later, Tom Mooney put 
The win, the team's eighth in the vtsJtors lost their composure, the puck until the game with the the Irish up 2-0 with a powerplay last 10 games, put the Irish in sole allowing the Irish to score eight Warriors. But as good as the Irish 
goal after a nice setup by Reilly and possession of first place in the straight points and go to the locker-looked with the man advantage, 
Chapman. North Star. They are now 6-1 in the room with a 33-25 lead. Smith would still like to see his 
Mike McNeill redirected a shot conference (13-7 overall), one-half "We missed some key baskets team look a little sharper in its 
Tonight, 7 p.m. 
from the point by Pat Foley at game ahead of Dayton (6-2) and a and made some really costly tur-overall play. 
14:02 and Notre Dame held a 3-0 whole game ahead of this Wednes­novers at the end of the half," said "We moved the puck well on the 
lead.

Hockey game
day's opponent, Loyola (5-2). Jones. "Without that eight-point power play but had a few problems 
All three goals in the second Notre Dame had been able to win run, we go into the lockerroom at other times," said the Irish men­
period were scored in the first six
vs. Marquette
five of its first six conference tied. Then it would have been a dir:.--. tor. "We had a few defensive lapses 
minutes and from that point, the games, including a 76-62 triumph ferent game, but they began to slow that we'll have to work on. But Tim 
game turned into a close-checking over the Titans in Detroit, by utiliz­down in the second half, and we Lukenda helped out a lot in many affair at both ends of the rink. ing its inside game, which is the couldn't force them to take quick of those situations. He came up After leading 3-1 after the first Chapman turned on the red light strongest in the NSC. Obviously, shots." with some big saves several times." period and 5-2 at the end of two, for the Irish just 18 seconds into the Coach Dewayne Jones and his (Lukenda finished with 27 stops.) the Irish survived an early scare in period with help from Reilly and injury-riddled squad expected Detroit did make one last run at The game was fast-paced and the third period when Marquette McNeill. The Warriors then much of the same as they were forc­the Irish lead early in the second hard-hitting most of the night, but tallied twice on power plays to pull managed to stay close with a goal ed into numerous turnovers by the half, cutting the margin to four, 38-Notre Dame proved to have just within one, 5-4. by Rick Carroll at 2:37. Notre Dame pressure. 34, by forcing several turnovers too much strength for the Warriors Notre Dame bounced back, Mooney picked up his second 
"People know we're going to with a press of its own. However, to handle. however, and scored four times to goal of the game with an unassisted press most of the time, but I don't after DiStanislao called timeout, seal the win. effort at 5:53 as he pulled Warrior mind it," said Detroit's Jones. "But Notre Dame once again turned the With a rowdy student crowd Chapman added two of his three goaltender Scott Erfurth from the Notre Dame really surprised us tables with its press, scoring II of harassing the Irish, particularly co­goals while Tim Reilly also picked net and slid the puck behind the with their press and we weren't able the next 15 points and demoralizing captain Brent Chapman, most of up two goals in the final period. diving netminder after grabbing a to adjust to it. We just didn't play a tired Detroit squad. the night, the senior from Agio­The Irish grabbed their 3-1 lead loose puck just inside the Mar­smart. I think that our problems The win, combined with court, Ontario, responded with after one period with the help of quette blue line. 




