

Record reviews -page 5 

VOL XX, NO. 29 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 3, 198S 

Michigan tailgater causes Dillon Hall to forfeit next SYR 
By MARK PANKOWSKI 
CopyEdttor 
Dillon Hall forfeited one of its SYRs and must do a community service project as a result of a "private tailgater" in Ann Arbor, Mich., on Sept. 14 which included the hall's fight song and bright red flag, Dillon Hall President John Hus­mann said. 
The pre-game tailgater, which was not sponsored by the hall, "appeared as a Dillon gathering so it appeared as a Notre Dame gathering," Hus­mannsaid. 
"Because of the flag raising and the fight song, it appeared it was a Dillon Hall event," he said. "That was the reason for (the University's) 
response. 
The tailgater wa~ attended by ap­proximately Ic;o students, half of whom were not Dillon Hall resi­dents, he said. 
"I think that if the flag had not been raised then it would have been considered a private party and everything would have been fine," he said. 
John Goldrick, associate vice president for residence life, would not give specific details why the Office of Residence Ufe had levied the punishment, but did say the mat­ter "was not dealt with as an alcohol policy violation." 
"It was because of other matters discussed with the rector and the hall president," Goldrick said. 

Correction 
Because of a reporting error, an article in yesterday's Observer gave incorrect dates for the stu­dent leadership conference sponsored by Notre Dame stu­dent government. The con­ference will take place Oct. 11, 12 and 13. The Observer regrets the errors. 
Several complaints about the tail­gater were made to "high-ranking University officials," according to FatherJoseph Carey, Dillon Hall rec­tor. 
"People from Michigan and wit­hin the University complained," Carey said. "There were a lot of reports to the University .... It was a well-known fact around (the Univer­sity) that there was this tailgater." 
Husmann questioned whether the University should have the authority to punish the hall for a tailgater that occurred in Michigan. 
"I think whether the University's authority reaches that far really should be looked into," Husmann said. "I don't believe there was a precedent. That's why I think this should be looked into." 
Carey, however, said a precedent had been set in 1983 when a Notre Dame senior almost was expelled for his actions in Florida during spring break. 
"The question came up (at that time) that if you're claiming to represent Notre Dame, does your behavior have to be a certain way?" Carey said. "(The University) said yes, especially if you paint yourself blue and gold and paint Notre Dame on your forehead. 
"There is an expectation of nor­mal human behavi'or when you go to Michigan or Purdue or wherever," he said. "When you go somewhere you should show some class." 
Goldrick and Ann Firth, director of residence life, consulted with Carey and met twice with Husmann before making the decision on what punishment was appropriate, Goldrick said. 
The result of the consultation and the meetings, Carey said, "was Dil­lon had to forfeit its second SYR of the year and do a significant com­munity service project." 
Husmann, who was informed of the ruling after his meeting Monday 
see DILLON, page 3 


The ObKrver/Maur«"n Bachmann 

With a little love 
Notre Dame junior Amy Wetzel, a pre-med the physically handicapped children who par­major, offers her seroices as a physical therapist to ticipate in Notre Dame's volunteer NISH program. 


Soviet embassy in Lebanon held; kidnappers killl, threaten others 
Aslodated Preu people have been killed and I,100 
have been wounded since Sept. 15. 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -Kidnappers of The militias supplied by Syria, Mos­four Soviet Embassy employees cow's main ally in the Middle East, killed one of them and said yester-have the fundamentalists cornered day the others will die unless Syrian-with their backs to the sea and Syrian backed militias halt an offensive artillery has joined the battle. against Moslem fundamentalists in The body of cultural attache the northern port ofTripoli. Arkady Katkov, 32, was. found yes-
An anonymous telephone caller terday, shot once in the head at close claimed a second captive had been range. It was sprawled on blood­killed, and another said Moslem ex-stained rocks near the Cite Sportive, tremists planned to blow up the em-a stadium adjacent to the Sabra bassy. Palestinian refugee camp, which was 
The battle raged on for control of destroyed by shellfire in Lebanon's Tripoli, where more than 500 decade-long civil war. 
An anonymous caller claiming to speak for the Islamic Uberation Or­ganization gave the location of the body in a telephone call to a W es­tern news agency. 
"We have carried out God's sen­tence against one of the hostages and we shall execute the others one after the other if the atheistic cam­paign against Islamic Tripoli does not stop," the caller 'said. The four Soviets were abducted Monday in two separate incidents in west 
see EMBASSY, page 3 


Actor Rock Hudson loses yearlong battle with AIDS 
remembered for his humanity, his He had known for more than a not comment on the immediate In 1955, Hudson married his sympathetic spirit and well­year that he suffered from acquired cause of the actor's death. agent's secretary, Phyllis Gates. The 
LOS ANGELES -Rock Hudson, the deserved reputation for kindness. immune deficiency syndrome, but it Coroner's spokesman Blll Gold newlyweds had a much-publicized cinema idol whose admission of a May God rest his soul." became known publicly only after a said it would not be a coroner's case, honeymoon in Florida, but yearlong battle against AIDS won Hudson's friend and one-time co­gaunt Hudson checked into the because Hudson had been under the separated the following year and sympathy and attention for victims star Elizabeth Taylor said in a state­American Hospital in Paris on July care ofa physician. were divorced in 1958. Hudson of the disease, died yesterday at his ment: "Please God, he has not died 21. The hospital decided Hudson Olson said only the staff at Hud­never remarried. home. He was 59. in vain." was too weak to be a good candidate son's home was there when he died. People magazine reported this 
Hudson, star of "Giant," "A Gat­Taylor, who starred with Hudson for its experimental therapy with a Funeral services were not set im­year that the marriage had been set hering of Eagles," several comedies in "Giant" and "The Mirror Crack'd," drug whose effectiveness had not mediately. up by Universal Studios to dispel with Doris Day on film and was one of his closest supporters in been proved. The most common victims of rumors about Hudson. "McMlllan and Wife" and "Dynasty" his final days, and was co-host for an He returned to Los Angeles Aug. 6 AIDS are homosexuals, intravenous Olson refused to comment on on television, "died peacefully in his AIDS benefit Sept. 19 with actor Burt and spent the next 18 days in UCLA drug users and hemophiliacs. The such reports. sleep at 9 o'clock this (yesterday) Reynolds. Medical Center. disease is believed to be spread "There has never been any morning," publicist Dale Olson said. Hudson donated S250,000 to the Olson said Hudson had been through sexual contact, con­definitive statement about that from 
At the White House, President benefit, which grossed more than seeing friends and seemed un­taminated needles and blood trans­anyone, including Rock himself," Ol­Reagan issued a statement saying: Sl.2 million for AIDS research. changed recently. He said the actor fusions. son said yesterday. "Nancy and I are saddened by the "I am not happy that I am sick. l had not suffered pain or taken pain Hudson's homosexuality had Hudson, 6-foot-4 and ruggedly news of Rock Hudson's death. He am not happy that I have AIDS, but if medication for complications of been rumored for years. Even after handsome, was a perennial top-1 0 wlll always be remembered for his that is helping others, I can, at least, AIDS, which disarms the body's his illness became known and box office attraction during the dynamic impact on the film industry know that my own misfortune has resistance to disease. several magazines carried sympat­and fans all over the world will cer­had some positive worth," Hudson The office of Rexford Kennamer, hetic articles describing Hudson as a see HUDSON, page 3 tainly mourn his loss. He wlll be said in his last public statement. Hudson's physician, said it would homosexual, the actor kept silent. 
The Observer Thursday, October 3, 1985 -page 2 


In Brief 
I 

Warsaw Pact leaders wilt meet tate this month in Bulgaria to plan for the U.S.-Soviet summit in November, West Ger­man radio reported Tuesday. Citing diplomatic sources in East Ber­lin, the radio said the meeting would take place in Sofia from Oct. 21 to Oct. 23. The Warsaw Pact nations are the Soviet Union, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, East Germany, Poland, Hungary and Romania. The Warsaw Pact meeting will be part of the preparations for Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev's summit with President Reagan Nov. 19­20 in Geneva, Switzerland, the radio said. White House officials an­nounced Monday that Reagan had invited the leaders of the six major industrialized allies of the United States to meet with him In New York to plan summit strategy. -AP 
British Airways is offering a sky-high seat for the great Halley's Comet show. For the equivalent of $42, the state­owned airline is promising to take passengers on an hour-long trip over the ocean at 35,000 feet on a moonless night-well above most atmospheric pollution and away from the glare of city lights. The flights, in December and january, will operate from Manchester Air­
t 
port. "They will probably provide the country's best naked-eye view 
r 
of the comet on its nearest approach to the Earth," an airline state­ment said. The comet, named after Britain's 18th century astronomer royal, Edmund Halley, passes the Earth once every 75 years. The airline said the windows ofthe 99-seater BAC-111 aircraft to be used for its flights will be "as clean as possible." -AP 
Of Interest 

University of Chicago Professor Allan 
Bloom, a member of the Committee on Social Thought, will present the first lecture in a new Notre Dame series, "Rationality, Classical and Modern: What is Enlightenment?" His talk at 7:30p.m. in the Memorial Ubrary auditorium is sponsored by the Program ofUberal Studies with support from the Exxon Foundation and is open to the public. His discussion of "Rousseau on Democratic Education: Critique ofthe Enlightenment" will focus on the bearf.ng ofthe 18th century French philosopher and author's analysis of politics and education for contemporary democratic society. -Tbe Observer 
The FeastofSt. FrancisofAssisi wilt be celebrated at 11 :30 a.m. in Sacred Heart Church. Father Robert Kennedy ofthe University's Ministry office will say the Mass. Sister Mary Jane Griffin, rectress of Farley Hall and acting director of the Center for Social Concerns will give the homily. Following Mass, a simple meal will be served in the CSC. -Tbe Observer 
A Post-Graduate Opportunities Daywill 
be held tomorrow from noon until 4 p.m. on the patio outside the Center for Social Concerns. Students are Invited to discuss the volunteer options available after graduation. All seniors are invited. -

Tbe Observer 

Weather 

Sunshinewill stream through 
windows today, as temperatures climb to summer-like levels. High near 70. Partly cloudy tonight with the low around 50. Partly cloudy tomorrow with a 30 percent chance of showers. High in the lower 70s. -AP 

The Observer. 
'lbc Obolcrvcr (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. 'lbc Obolcrvcr is published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $30 per year ( J20 per se­mester) by writing 'lbc Obolcrvcr, P.O. 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
1bc Obolcrvcr is a member or 'lbc 
Aaeoclatcd Preas. All reproduction 
rights are reserved. 
Today's issue was produced by: 
Design Edltor........................Andi Schnuck Design As$1stant ..................Alice Kroeger Layout Staff................................ Bill Harvey Typesetters .................... Becky Gunderman 
Chuck Papandrea News Editor........................ Mary Heilmann Copy Editor................................ Miriam Hill Sports Copy Editor ................. Marty Burns VIewpoint Copy Editor ........Doug Hasler VIewpoint Layout ................. Carol Brown Features Copy Editor................... Ed Nolan Features Layout ............... Marie! Labrador ND Day Editor ................... Sharon Emmite SMC Day Editor.................MaryJean Sully Ad Design .................. Mary Carol Creadon 
Joan Wrappe Peter Georges Photographer ............ Maureen Bachmann 


Genetic engineering a positive step toward eliminating diseases 
Genetic engineering. 
It simply means rearranging a few chemicals on a DNA chain. But wrapped up in that simple process are both wonderful possibilities and unspeakable horrors. 
Until now, the concept of changing the genetic makeup of humans has been only a fantasy out of B· grade science fiction movies. But in 1985, for the first time it is becoming a reality as geneticists at various universities finally are getting the government clearance and the background knowledge they need to begin the first actual gene experiments on humans. 
"But wait!" the public cries. How can we fiddle with one of the most intimate parts of our humanity · the characteristics we are born with? How can we trade away our natural Identity in order to guarantee our health? 
Even worse, what if the research gets out of hand? What if someone decides (very humanely) that they want to prevent hemophiliacs from being born? Or that the world would be much better without any deformed or mentally hand­icapped people, filled with "better" humans who are strong, intelligent or blond? (Some critics even point to the grisly experiments of Hitler's Germany, and note the possibility of government-sponsored selective human breeding. 
But many of these people 0 fail to realize a critical dis­tinction. Under fierce public scrutiny, the National In­0 stitue of Health has adopted strict guidelines for genetic experimentation. And under ~~ UE/IIJHDI.T these guidelines, experi­ments are allowed only on ordinary body cells, never on reproductive cells. In ot­her words, only a patient's allected genes (say, in the bone marrow)will be recombined, and there will be no way he can pass the new genes on to his children. 
"Ifyou think about it as therapy, it shouldn't be at all controversial," sai~ Dr. Harvey Bender, head of the Regional Genetics Center at Memorial Hospital ofSouth Bend and a genetics professor at Notre Dame. Bender noted that such therapy would relieve an affilcted patient while not at all changing the genetic makeup of most ofhis body cells. 

It is expected that in less than two months the first experiments on humans will be ready to begin. They will be performed on patients with ADA deficiency, a rare genetic disease closely related to that of the "Bubble Boy." ADA patients have no immune system and die in early childhood. The researchers will transfer normal genes into the patients' bone marrow, where immune cells are generated, reducing the effects of the 
Writers'·Biock Cured 
over 16,000 topics, to 
assist your writing eff­
orts and help you beat 
Writers' Bleck. For info., 
call TOLL-FREE 1-800-621­
5745. (In Illinois, call 
312-922-0300.) Authors' Re­
search, Rm. 600-N, 407 South j Dear:bGrn, Chicago IL 60605. 
• 
Pita SlUffed Soltdwidtu GYROS 

• 
Delifhtful Pa•trito• Tur~~h Cotf~e 288-5639 


Tue• -Sat 5:30PM -9:30PM COMPLETECATEitiNG FOR 838 Portage
PARTIES. BANQUETf 


l07.Discount for ND/SMC Students
With this Coupon 
SOUTH a.END 


Mary Healy 
Accent Editor 
syndrome. 

Another disease targeted for early experimentation is the woeful Lesch-Nyhan disease, whose victims have an uncontrollable impulse to bite their own fingers and lips, and who usually die early. Huntington's disease (a slow and painful mental deterioration), sickle cell anemia (a blood disorder), and cystic fibrosis (a lung condition) are others that may be treated soon. 
The possibilities are endless and inviting. 
Of course, those who shudder over the hazards of tampering with nature are by no means totally unjus­tified. Although science has officially agreed to careful restrictions, there is always the possibility that the growing body of DNA knowledge can be abused by some depraved doctor. 
But even though that con­cern Is very real, it cannot be allowed to cramp science. Valuable treatments cannot be discarded just because they may be learned and abused. If that happened, medicine would be nowhere near where it is 
10·1 today. Every time a new dis­
covery is made, a massive hubbub over its ethics invariably explodes, then sput­ters and dies. 
Such was the case with the first implantations of a donor heart, an artificial heart and a baboon heart. Now, people are beginning to take such transplants for granted, and before long, no one will even think twice about them. 
Medicine always has been a risky business. It is even more so now that it is delving into the deepest mys­teries of life. But lives are being saved, and diseases cured, and pain alleviated. There's no backing off now. 
Thanks toyou... it works... forALLOFUS 
• Unlt.c:IW.U 

MID • EASTERN VEGETARIAN 

• 
Veptan.a • .,._al D~'-FOODS SHAWHUIA. "UGBDERA -BABA GHENOUJ HOM MUS-FELAFEL TEBBOULI SAI.AD 

• 
LEBAN_ESB STYLE 




The Observer Thursday, October 3, 1985 -page 3 

yesterday's Arts and Letters Career Day. The event, held In the Center for Continuing Education, was sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 




Dillon 
continuedfrom page 1 

communiCATlOn 
~ IHEAIRE 
The University of Notre Dame with Goldrick and Firth, said he thought the ruling was fair.
Department of Communication and Theatre 
Husmann said he must submit a 
announces 
project idea by the end of the week for the administration to consider. Auditions There has been no decision as to what project the dorm will perform, 
for the Showcase Production of 
Husmann said. "The whole idea is to get as many Dlllonites as possible (toThe Freedom of The City participate)." The problem, Carey said, was not
by Brian Friel 
that students were having a tailgater. "I want to emphasize the problem is not one of tailgating," said Carey. at the "The problem is the behavior more 
than anything." 
Washington Hall Lab Theatre 


CSC director McNeill continues to recover 
By KATHLEEN ZASSICK Griffin said the CSC Is operating News Staff smoothly in McNeill's absence. "With every new person there is 
Center for Social Concerns Direc­always a transition. Everyone brings tor Father Don McNeill Is on medi­into the mission their particular cal leave from Notre Dame this year gifts. We are working well together and is recovering in Berkeley, Calif., on the programs sponsored by the according to Father Daniel Jenky, CSC. We are committed to working 
Rector ofSacred Heart Church. with faculty, students, staff, and McNeill is "suffering from a tem­alumni," she said. porary condition that impaired usage of his arms and neck which McNeill's absence has not may have been caused by a pinched changed the purpose of the CSC's nerve," jenky said. programs, Griffin said. "With therapy and rest he should "We are continuing the mission. be able to make a complete recovery The mission Is to integrate peace by next year," he added. and justice concerns into everyday McNeill is staying with his fellow life through formative educational Holy Cross priests in California experiences," she said. while he recovers. Griffin said her responsibilities as Sister Mary jane Griffin has acting director include contributing assumed the position ofacting direc­to the vision ofthe esc, administrat­tor of the esc until next year when ing the center, and working with the McNeill is expected to return,Jenky University community in participat­said. Ing in center programs. 
Enter at the Lab Theatre (North) Entrances 
Thursday, October 3, Tlme:7pm-10pm Friday, October 4, Time:3pm-6pm Other times by appointment, call Professor Baln at 239-7170 
oud1t10ns ore open to all Notre Dame and So1nt Mory"s students no expenence 1s necessary no prepared monotogue IS requ1red 
Additional Info available at CoTh office, 320 O'Shaughnessy 

Embassy 
continued/rom page 1 
Beirut, the capital's Moslem sector. 
The three remaining abducted Soviets are commercial attache Valery Mirlkov, press attache Oleg Spirin and Nikolai Sversky, an em­bassy doctor. Police earlier had identified Mirikov as Valery Kornev. 
President Reagan called the ab­ductions "cowardly," the Soviet Union said it was taking "all neces­sary steps" to free the victims, and Syria offered "any assistance in our 
Many of the complaints about the tailgater stemmed from the hall's fight song, Carey said. 
"The Dillon Hall fight song Is known by many people in the Uni­versity and many find it offensive be­cause ofthe language," he said. 
Although it was the residents of Dillon Hall who were punished, they were not the only ones attending the tailgater, Husmann said. 
"There were a number of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's girls there and a number of other Notre Dame males," he said. 
"The key point is that it was not entirely a Dillon event," Husmann said. 
The tailgater was not an official hall function, he said, and people 
capacity" to gain the release of the Soviets and 14 Westerners held by kidnappers in Lebanon. 
The Islamic Liberation Organiza­tion, a Sunni Moslem fundamentalist group, is allied with Tawheed, the Is­lamic Unification movement, whose black-scarved warriors are fighting for their lives In Tripoli. 
Another caller, also claiming to speak for the kidnappers, telephoned Beirut's Moslem radio station Voice of the Nation and said another captive had been killed. Pollee said no second body had been found. 
In a third call, to a Western news agency, a man who said he represented the Islamic Liberation Organization said the extremists would blow up the Soviet Embassy unless it was evacuated within 48 hours. 
There was no way to authenticate the calls. 
The Islamic Liberation Organiza­tion's statements about the kidnap­pings have been accompanied by the Lebanese identity cards oftwo of the hostages and photographs of all four with pistols held to their heads. 

Hudson was a versatile leading in "McMillan and Wife" with Susan man, starring in such large-scale Saint james. rums as "Something of Value," "A In 1980 he made "The Mirror Farewell to Arms," "The Last Sunset" Crack'd" with Taylor -his last
continuedfrom page 1 
and "A Gathering of Eagles." His feature rum. 1950s and 1960s when big studios light touch with comedy sparkled created stars and built movies opposite Doris Day in "Pillow Talk," Television lured him back for around them. "Send Me No Flowers" and other "The Devlin Connection," but he 
He was eager to shed the Image of romantic comedies. dropped out after quadruple bypass a hollow-headed hunk and convince Rarely without work after making surgery In November 1981. He producers he could act. He got his his rum debut in "Fighter Squadron" vowed never to do a series again. chance In the 1956 epic, "Giant," in 1948, Hudson turned to televi­But this past season, he returned about oil and cattle barons in Texas. sion after 61 films. He starred for six on ABC-TV's "Dynasty" as adven­It earned him an Oscar nomination. seasons as the pollee commissioner turer millionaire Daniel Reece, 
Vocational Counseling on campus at Moreau Seminary Notre Dame, IN 
How dol know if I have a vocation to the priesthood? 
Wat is the academic and formation program for becoming a priest? 
~---~ 
What scholarships and financial aid are available for seminary training? 
Wat are the various apostolic ministries of the Holy Cross priests? 
How do I pray if I'm thinking of a vocation to the priesthood and I'm not sure? 
learned about it "by word of mouth." 
The · tailgater began ap­proximately three hours before the Michigan game with 20 Dillon Hall residents and a recreational vehicle, he said. 
There were four kegs of beer present, Husmann said. But there was no abuse of alcohol, Husmann said. 
"People were not drunk, but people were not stone-sober eit­her," he said. 
Husmann said the flag would not have been raised If he had known it would create such problems. 
The flag, he said, did not mean "that it was a Dillon tailgater. It was to let everyone know where the tall­gater was at." 




Holy Cross Fathers 
For personal, confidential interview with no obligation, please write or call a vocation director. Box 541, Notre Dame,IN 
46556 

For appointment, caU between 8:30am & 4:3 219-239-6385 



Fr. Michael Couhig,C.S.C. 
Fr. Paul Doyle,C.S.C 

The Observer Thursday, October 3, 1985 -page 4 
Mitterrand meets USSR's Gorbachev 
atmosphere with a will for better un­derstanding, to explain oneself 
PARIS-President Francois Mitter­frankly without ambiguities, in rand and Mikhail Gorbachev dis­mutual respect." cussed the possibilities of"a serious, Vauzelle said the general discus­real reduction" in armaments yes­sion included "East-West relations, .terday, six weeks before the U.S.­the East-West arms balance, and Soviet summit. more precisely that balance in 
Mitterrand's spokesman said the Europe, and how to engage in a president and the Soviet leader also process that would bring about a touched on the Reagan administra­serious, real reduction in arms and tion's Star Wars research program reduce tensions." for a space-based defense system in Mitterrand was an outspoken sup­their first private meeting. porter of NATO's deployment of 
Gorbachev is in France for four medium-range cruise and Pershing days, on his first visit to the West nuclear missiles in Europe to since taking over as Kremlin leader balance Soviet SS-20s. in March. Gorbachev and President Reagan 
He repeated Soviet opposition to will meet in Geneva Nov. 19-20. the space-defense plan in his arrival Vauzelle said Star Wars, which is statement, speaking of the need to. expected to be the central issue at prevent "an arms race in space and the summit came up yesterday. Mit­end it on Earth." terrand opposes many facets of the 
Mitterrand told him that "too plan, but does not want to criticize it many conflicts, suffering, attacks on jointly with Gorbachev. the dignity and rights (of man) are Mitterrand has rejected Was­aftlicting men today," presidential hington's invitation to participate in spokesman Michel Vauzelle said. He research on the space system, for­
described the two-hour, 15-minute mally called the Strategic Defense discussion as occurring in "a cordial Initiative. 


1bc Oblervcr/Maureen Bachmann 
Ivy-League game 
Engineering students could take a break from proaching cold weather, distractions like this their rigorous classes in Cushing by watching quad won't be interfering with classes much longer. football from a third-floor window. With the ap­
······························~
Reagan supports Israeli decision : · THE sAs PREsENTs ~' ~ ~~mbing ~!~~~krr~~a~:~~~~~ on~ u ~o0~\)~~~~~ ~ 
WASHINGTON President However, Redman said the ad­While acknowledging that U.S.-• Tuesday' October 1 -Saturday' October 5 • Reagan suggested Tuesday that Is­ministration did not yet have all the supplied equipment was used by the e • 
rael was justified in raiding the facts and that "I would not make a Israelis,Redmansaidtheadministra-• • Tues. Oct 1 48Hours 7 9 11 • Palestine Uberation Organization judgment on this specific act." tion was not informed in advance e • ' ' • headquarters in Tunisia in retalia­andwasnotinvolved"inanyway." • • Wed.Oct2 TradingPlaces 7,9:15,11:30 • tion for the killing last week ofthree As to whether U.S. planes were in­Heflatlydeniedareportthatthe • : Thurs. Oct3 · TradingPlaces 7, 9:15,11:30 • Israelis in Cyprus. volved in the air raid, Reagan refused ~s;'~~r~lanes flew off a U.S. aircraft : • Fri. Oct 4 Beverly Hills Cop 7, 9, 11 : 
Asked whether Israel was entitled to comment. "I don't know the 

to retaliate, the president replied, facts," he said. : : Sat. Oct 5 Beverly Hills Cop 7, 9, 11 : 
"As long as you pick out the people Redman said it was the depart­The raid by six Israeli planes Tues­

responsible." ment's understanding that the raid day killed up to 60 people and • ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM : 
Had the Israelis done that? "I've al­"was not intended as an offensive act destroyed the PLO complex, the ~ .............................. 
ways had great faith in their intel­against Tunisia," and he refused to PLOsaid. ligence," he said. say whether the administration con­Before Reagan spoke at the White sidered the raid a violation of It was the first Israeli air raid 

For SENIORS onllj;
House, State Department spokes­Tunisia's sovereignty. outside Lebanon sinceJune 7, 1981, 
man Charles Redman had told when then-Prime Minister Menac­



POST-GRADUATE 
reporters that "as a matter of prin­"We deeply deplore the rising pat­hem Begin sent Israeli jets to bomb 
ciple, it is our view that it is tern of violence, ofwhich this latest the Iraqi nuclear reactor near Bagh­


OPPORTUNITIES DAY !
legitimate self-defense to respond incident is part," said Redman. "It dad. 

Street rioting continues to plague England; Liverpool sustains damage in latest attacks 
thrown," said the press officer, who two roads running through Peck­
declined to be identified in accor­ham as they moved reinforcements 
LONDON -Gasoline bombers at­dance with British practice. She said and their riot gear into the area from tacked police and started five fires in gasoline bombs were thrown at neighboring police stations in case the racially mixed south London dis­police but nobody was reported offurther trouble. trict of Pe"kham late Tuesday night. hurt. Earlier in Uverpool, police in riot In Uverpool, 300 youths stoned a Peckham borders the largely gear sealed off part ofthe city's Tox­police station and set cars on fire. black Brixton district of south Lon­teth district after gangs of young 
Five businesses were burned in don where in two days ofrioting last men, most ofthem black, stoned and Peckham after gasoline bombs were weekend, I,500 youths attacked a burned cars and hurled missiles thrown by roving gangs of youths, police station, looted stores and set from a moving car through two win­most ofthem black, a Scotland Yard cars on fire after police shot and dows at the Hope Street Police Sta­press officer said. wounded a black mother of six by tion on the outskirts of the district. 
"There have been spora<Jic out­mistake in the bedroom ofher home Armored police vans also were breaks of unruliness and several early Saturday. pelted and several journalists were petrol (gasoline) bombs were Police Tuesday night sealed off attacked. 

FOR ALL YOUR EYE CARE NEEDS­

Chemical in pacifiers could cause cancer 

COMPLETE EXAMS
Although tests on rats and mice products containing DEHP is es­resulted in excess liver cancer, timated as roughly 20-100 deaths 

contacts, glasses 
"epidemiologic studies have been per year." WASHINGTON -A chemical used inadequate to assess the possible 


ND /SMC students, 
in millions of pacifiers and other human carcinogenicity of DEHP," Aaron Locker, a lawyer for the Toy 


Facuity and Staff
plastic baby products definitely the panel said. Manufacturers of America, said in a causes cancer in animals and "must It added, however, that estimates telephone interview from New York 

Show Your I. D. and Receive 
be considered potentially car­based on the animal tests, mathe­that the association has seen "no cinogenic to humans," a scientific matical models and certain other as­hard data" that supports contentions 

20 '/.OFF GLASSES OR CONTACTS 
panel told the Consumer Product sumptions suggest that dietary of special cancer risk. Nevertheless, Safety Commission on Tuesday. DEHP could contribute to between he said, the group is still advising 


Excluding Specials 
The panel called for more study of 100 and 150 human liver cancer members "to avoid DEHP and look the chemical -di (2-ethylhexyl) deaths a year. for alternatives" in light of the con­phthalate, or DEHP 8 and asked that Further, it said, there also were troversy. 



ProfessionalVISion 
ASSOCIATES
investigation "be intensified" into risks to kidney dialysis patients and the susceptibility of children to hemophiliacs from intravenous ex­Some already have moved to ot­

163511.1renweed 1341hrtlp toxic effects of environmental posure and that "the added risk due her products, he said, but he 
277-1161 234-2400 
South ol U.S. 23 Martlr's Shopping
chemicals in general. to oral exposure to children's provided no figures. 
Center 









Accent 
Thursday, October 3, 1985 -page 5 
Rock can walk tall and hold its head high 


Move to ntainstreant lacks grit 
TOMORROW 
is the last day to apply for 
Features copy editor 

Applications are due at 5 p.m. For more information, contact Mary Healy at the Observer office, 239-53 13 



Rocker stands up to legends 
Kevin Walsh 
Record review 
Downtown 


Marshall Crenshaw 
Records are rated on a lour-star scale, lour being the best 
E 
!vis Presley. Buddy Holly. The Beatles. 
What an incredible legacy 
rock music has. But will Journey 
and Loverboy fill the void and 
carry on the legend? In a word, 
no. 
Fear not, rock music lover, I 
have found he who is to carry us 
through the 1980s and hopefully 
much further. His name is Mar­
shall Crenshaw and his newly 
released third album is entitled 
Downtown. It is a collection of 
hummable pop tunes guaranteed 
to buoy your spirits. 
"Little Wild One (No. 5 )" 
starts off the album with the 
story ofa guy who, after break­
ing up with his girlfriend, thinks 
better ofit and is returning to 
"Romp with my little wild one..." 
The song is apparently getting 
heavy airplay on New York City 
radio and Crenshaw deserves it. 
This is not the album that will 
put "Win A Dream Date With 
Marshall" on the cover ofTiger­
Beat. 
Almost all of the songs on 
Downtown hit on the first listen. 
The choice track on 
Downtown is "Blues Is King," the only song on the album produced by Mitch Easter, R.E.M.'s former producer. The rest ofthe album is produced by T-Bone Burnett, who should be 

Mary Jacoby 
Record review 

Ain't Love Grand *** 
X 
Records are rated on a tour·star scale, four being the best 
you're at all familiar with
I f 
any of X's previous music, 
then you'd have to expect big 
things when they put out an 
album and name it Ain't Love 
Grand. 
Ain't Love Grand is not ex­actly a mellow or even mediocre album. On the contrary, this fifth album (not counting an album X released recently under the name ofThe Kniters)from the spunky Los Angeles -based punk band is a cut above the rest. Songs like "Burning House of Love" and "Supercharged" are still typically X-hard-driving and sardonic. 
In comparison with the band's earlier work on the superb Un­der the Big Black Sun and the dryly ironic More Fun in the New World, Ain't Love Grand seems a bit tired. In some places Ain't Love Grand sounds surpris­ingly mature, such as inJohn Doe and Excene Cervenka's pledge to one another, "I'll Stand Up for You." 
Many of the tracks on Ain't Love Grand deserve to be hits. 
With its catchy hooks; "Burning House of Love" is made for the radio. "Love Shack" sounds like the Go-Go's. But in making the 
, 
1 
music more accessible, X loses 
some its raw vitality. 
Only side two's opener "What's Wrong with Me?" captures the true X spirit ofold. "What's wrong with me?" scream Doe and Cervenka. Answer: "None ofyour god---­business!" 
Although not as sharp as X's previous albums, Ain't Love Grand is still worth a spin or two. As long as X moves toward the mainstream, they'll atleast be something good to listen to on the radio. 
, 
, 
1 
1 
praised for economically layer­
ing Crenshaw's spare pop 
melodies. "Blues Is King" uses a spidery, bell-like guitar mixed In lightly with soft "Oooohs" In the background which fits the mood of the song perfectly. This song oozes New York City in the rain. 
Even though he Is a ray of hope In the vast darkness ofTop 40 radio, I can't help but hope that I never hear a Marshall Crenshaw song sandwiched In between Foreigner and Power Station. 
J 
,r 




~i~~~_<>__i_Il__t________________
Th_u_rsd-ay-,0-ct-ob-er-3,_198-5--pa-ge-6 
Golden dreams began at Notre Dame and Folsom 

It is a gold rush town, well preserved and  
now something ofa tourist attraction. Antique  
and souvenir shops spill out onto the wooden  
:>idewalks; more than one ice cream parlor be­ 
ckons  to  the travel weary. The playhouse  
presents its features in faded window displays,  
and across the street one can choose from a  
r r r  selection of handpainted figurines and music boxes playing "Oh, Susannah."  

Alison Pivonka 


as you like it 

Folsom is one ofmany towns that sprang up almost overnight from the chaos that was California in 1849. Here a man could find wealth beyond his wildest dreams, he could ''scrape his boot heel and pick up the price ofa meal." It was iq the Mother Lode that railroad magnate Leland Stanford had become a legend,. Fortune hunters came by the thousands, never doubting for a moment the truth ofthe fantastic tales they heard. 
The vision could not last. Soon one found that he simply could not scoop riches from the river bed; he had to be willing to work hard to pursue his dream. Yet hard work did not imply success, and optimism turned to disillusionment. Crime was everywhere, and with it came hideous inflation, alcoholism and even suicide. Many who had invested all they owned in the hope of "striking it rich" went home empty handed. 
The men and women who came to Folsom were looking for something that simply could not exist. Their fatal mistake was not in dream­ing, but in expecting those dreams to come true too easily. Those who thought they might have to settle for less than instant wealth, stayed home. Perhaps they, too, made a mistake. 

None of us came to Notre Dame without a dream: a 4.0, an unbeatable social life, a high­paying job after graduation, a top-notch graduate school. Perhaps the dream involved starting or carrying on a family tradtition. Per­haps it involved the familiar recipe of fame,. fortune and fulfillment that would yield not­hing·but success. 
Strange how dreams change. Reality simply refuses to measure up as often as we wish it would. Often we find that something we have planned for all ofour lives does not make us as happy as we thought it might. We grow up; we learn that we cannot always have what we want, when we want it. 
Far too many are afraid to trade the old dream for a new one; far too many '49ers decided -whether they were aware ofit or not -tl:Jat since they could not have the easy wealth they wanted, they were determined to be poor until the day they died. And they set out not actively building lives of destitution, but allowing it to take over in the lives they already led. 
"Nothing can exist in a vacuum." You have heard the phrase before. Nothing can exist where dreams, goals and plans are absent. Apathy takes over, and we begin to float in a void of spiritual, mental, and intellectual poverty. However farfetched, unattainable and unrealistic they may seem, dreams are es­sential. They keep us active and enthusiastic. They give us something for which to hope. 
Combine them with a sense of perspective and an acute awareness of reality. Know that your dreams are the right size when your best effort yields just a little less than your ideal. Perhaps there is no foolproof recipe for fame and fortune. But for fulfillment, everyone has his own. 
Alison Pivonka is a sophomore govern­ment and economics major atNotre Dame. 

Consider devoting time to serving of truly needy 
Few would deny the value of community service. For most of us at Notre Dame, grade school catechism introduced the inherent goodness of service. Sunday homilies preached the benevolent ideal, and Notre Dame experiences reinforced the quality of life dedicated to altruism. 
Pat Markey and KimRoerig 


guest column 

But what about us? While most agree that  
serviceis a virtue, few are able to convertsuch  
convictions into action. The demands of uni- 
r  
r  

versity life -Emil quizzes, philosophy papers, interhall sports, student government, off­campus parties -have left us with no time· for trite idealism. No longer are aspirations for a more just world part of our lifestyles. Staying ahead has become the rule in hectic academic life. Priorities are made for us, not by us. Time races on .... 
We are seniors. Panic. That distant future in 
. which we had anticipated choosing a vocation is upon us. The options before us are limitless. The LSATs are Saturday. IBM is on campus. Georgetown's graduate government program looks appealing. Our futures could take offin a single direction. Are we ready for that? Have we really explored all the options? Some have. Many ofus have not. 
In the recent avalanche of pressures, we may have once again neglected that deeply­rooted, but easily overlooked desire to serve. Now, more than ever, we need to examine all the options. The desire for immediate security may be limiting our choices. That law school is not going anywhere. We can begin our cor­porate careers a year later. But today's freedom may not exist for us in a few years. If that humanism was ever real, now is the time to consider action. 

On Friday, Oct. 4, from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m., the Center for Social Concerns will be sponsoring a Post-Graduate Opportunities Day. Representatives from various service or­ganizations, including Holy Cross Associates 'and the Jesuit Volunteer Corps, will be there to provide information for those consideringa period ofpost-graduate service. 
Exposure to .these organizations will prompt greater reflection on the service al­ternative. Such reflection may further compl­icate our senior decisions, but a year from now, we will be thankful that we did not neglect, once again, the possibility of com­munity service. Although our final decision may not lead us into one of these service programs, exposure to them will add depth to our senior considerations. As we move beyond Notre Dame, we will know that ours was not a superficial decision made in haste, but rather, a meaningful resolution based upon our genuine aspirations. 
Pat Markey is a government major and Kim Roerig is an American studies major. Both are seniors at Notre Dame. 
Ladies and gentlemen, the jury is in. Smoke Signals presents the first annual International Bad Guys Awards! The awards are given out for examples of extremely bad behavior by r one nation or its subjects regarding another r nation, international law or the bounds of good taste. The much coveted awards were ~ the subject of fierce competition in their in­r augural year, and there were many excellent 
r 
candidates. The choices made by our fine staff 
, 
of judges were not easy, but the top four 
r 
prizes were awarded to deserving, if not lovable, candidates. The envelopes please! 
Dan Casey 


guest column 

Since this is not exactly the Miss Universe contest, and the candidates have few emo­tions to play on, we will skip over Miss Con­geniality and start with first prize first. This year, first prize belongs to the French govern­ment for the bombing ofthe Greenpeace ship, Rainbow Warrior. Naturally, this senseless act came as something ofa surprise to the world, because the French are usually perceived as harmless sorts, content to paint impressionist 
Doonesbury 


International bad guys are noted for their actions 
work by attacking a few thousand Italians, and it looked like we might have the early lead in ­the voting, but what can you do? The South Africns can always arrest a few thousand schoolchildren if they want headlines. The Grecnpeace job by the French was a diplomatic masterpiece. Nevertheless, we feel that we are creating a world class Bad Guys program in ~rit?.in. We will be in the hunt next year." 
Fourth place was won by the charmingArab terrorists who hijacked a planeful of Americans in Greece and re-routed them to scenic Beirut Airport. Unfortunately, we at Smoke Signals, like the rest of the world, arc somewhat in the dark as to who they actually are, and could not interview them, or get anyone to come to the award's ceremony. They can, however, claim their prize, a bronzed statuette of a clenched fist, any time they want. We can even get the head judge of the International Bad Guys Awards to deliver it in person, if they so desire. 
I figure I will just hop a plane to Athens, and they will do the rest. 
Dan Casey is a junior history major at Notre Dame. 
Quote of the day 
"It is only great menwho take up a great space by not being there." 
G.K. Cbesterson 

(1874-1936) 
Address atNotre Dame, 

Oct. 13, 1930 
landscapes, drink wine and discuss Sartre at roadside cafes. Their idea of violence is bur­ning a quiche. It seems, however, that the French are adopting a new "get tough" policy and are trying to shed their effete image. We asked a French spokesman to talk about the prize winning incident. 
"Well, we knew the South Africans were going to be tough, so we decided to go for broke and use one single, outrageous incident to put us over the top. We figured the South Africans would not be too clever and would try to win the award with an overwhelming number ofboring human rights violations. We decided that something innovative might capture the judges' imaginations, so we figured that planting a bomb on a Greenpeace ship in a New Zealand port might do the trick. I mean, who would ever think ofpicking on a bunch ofdo-gooders like Greenpeace? It must have gained us some points in the Tasteless­ness, Clandestine Acts, and Picking-on-the­Helpless categories. We are just glad it was enough for the first." 
Second place was won by South Africa's Botha regime. Realizing that the South Africans never like to finish second to anyone, and are seldom seen wearing white hats, we interviewed their spokesman about their tough-luck finish. 

"Well, naturally, this is a disappointment. We felt that with all the press we had been getting that we had it in the bag. I guess if we had to do it all over again, we would have used a little more tear gas, hit Angola with a few more border raids, added a couple of years to Nelson Mandela's prison term or maybe even knocked off that rabble rouser, Tutu. We cer­tainly would not have invited that Falwell character over for a visit -he made us sound downright humane! Well, I guess there is al­ways next year, unless the Israelis decide to invade Lebanon again." 
Third place was something of a surprise, also. It was won by the British, who are usually peaceful enough, but who ran amok at the European Cup soccer finals in June, and started a riot. The British spokesman had this to say. 
"We in Britain do not feel that we have ever gotten enough creditfor ourlack ofjudgment. We tried to create a few incidents in the past to help our image, like sinking the General Belgrano in the Falklands War, but we always seem to come up smelling like roses. This year, we decided to let our commoners do the 
Garry Trudeau 
Ht.'5 IN5PIWM/3 70 RAI!iG 7H& IT'!i TIME 70 S4Y /IKJ 70 GXaJ5&M8, 155U& AGAIN IN COMMITT&E. IAJH!Tt lf{}{}5C SIJPPt-YSl/?& /!JO!i5. 7H&I?£'5 ..ANO 7HI5 CONGRlSS HA5 8£&N FIW!A51&S, 70 7H&IR llXJPY AM/55 TINJ:l!R TH&IR H&l-0 HOSTAGe 70 7H& REAGAN Pf?{)JCC'f70N5, 7HI31R. FLIM-8131.-L H&R& 70 R.AKeY 
''MANIJAT&"LONG FlAM NUMBtR$•. 513& l088YIST5l a/OUGH.I 
\ \
"' 

---~-----­




"ieVVP-~O~i~n~t~------------------------------------------T_h_u_rs_d_ay_,_o_c_to_h_e_r_3_,1_9_B_s___P_ag_e__7 


How to keep from breaking up during October 
It is the first week of October and many of us are now being plagued with the dreaded October blues. The newness of the school year has passed and we have all settled into the comfortable routine of a typical college student. 
Kim Yuratovac 
my views 

By now,living with a roommate is no longer as exciting as it first was. Especially if the roommate happens to be far from home. My dorm room has a huge countdown to vacation calendar with a map of Texas on it. Not that state pride Is not important or anything but I do not think I need to memorize all of the geographic locations in Texas. I think I am the closest there is to an adopted Texan. I have even lost some of my Chicago accent to the Texan all purpose phrase "fixin'." But, I am fixin' to lose that before I go home. 
October break is the light at the end of the tunnel. A week of'home cooking, no exams and no more ethanol. The thought is heaven to those of us who have been living on Cap'n Crunch and caffeine. 
How do you get rid of the October blues? The key is variety. Instead of the same old rut, why not try something new? Vary your usual schedule. Try to take a break from your studies and take an afternoon walk around campus. The autumn season is one ofthe most beautiful here. Take some pictures of the campqs and of you and your friends and mail them to Mom and Dad. 

Call or write a faraway friend. This will make home seem a lot closerand will brighten up a dull day. 
Shopping does wonders for any ailment. A short bus ride to the mall can cure even the worst case of cabin fever. Buy something ex­travagant for yourself. Those of us on a strict college budget can supplement extravagance with a bit ofimagination. 
The adventurous will find that Chicago is less than a two-hour train ride away. The Windy City offers a multitude of cultural ac­tivities and the sights and sounds of a true metropolis for those urbanites who long for that hustle and bustle. 
Exercise is a great way to release the ten­sion and routineness of a typical day. A job, a bicycle ride, an aerobics class or a game ofrac­quetball are popular therapies for the over­worked mind. 
Outside reading can be a necessary diversion from the usual textbooks. Reading something of interest such as a magazine or newspaper can be refreshing after pages of calculus problems. 
But, by" far, the best way to overcome the October blues is through a positive attitude. Things are only as good or bad as you make them. And anyway, October break is only two weeks away. 
Kim Yuratovac is a freshman communica­tions major at Saint Mary's and a regular View/Joint columnist. 



P.O.BoxQ 

Students comment on Heilmann's column 
Dear Editor: 
In regards to Mary Heilmann's comments m an Inside column in lbe Observer: Huh? What game? We are just throaty engineers. Bob Karlsh Glenn Gebert Percy Hollkamp Mike Thompson john Carey Notre Damegraduate students 

Argue for the right to collective bargaining 
DearEditor: 
Our new director of personnel, Roger Mul­
lins, would probably want to be called direc­
tor of human resources. For. he speaks of 
institutions catching up with the 
"progressive" human resources approach 
which is Increasingly evident in other sectors 
of the economy. While this may be a noble 
goal, Mullins may not be aware ofsome of the 
necessary ingredic:nts of a truly progressive 
human resources program, particularly in a 
Catholic institution. 
First. Pope John Paul II, in his encyclical "On Human Work," described labor unions as "indispensable in modern industrial life." Second, the 19H4 draft of the U.S. Bishop's pas­toral letter on the economy states that all of the principles of Catholic social teaching on economic life apply equally to "The Church and its many institutions and agencies." Third, the same pope and bishops speak of the im­portance of "human dignity," "just wages and fringe benefits," and "worker participation and co-ownership." 
Consequently, Mullins is on weak ground when he asserts that unions are valid only when management fails to do its job. Nor does he address the issue of minimal wages and fringes for non-faculty employees. Similarly, he makes no mention of either independent third party arbitration of employees grievances or employee participation in decision-making at Notre Dame. 
These issues are a part of our democratic, American and Catholic heritages. Fur­thermore, collective bargaining, grievance procedures, higher wages and worker par­ticipation in management have all been demonstrated to be successful in raising productivity and morale. 
Regardless of whether Mullins believes he is doing his job well, Notre Dame has actively opposed attempts to organize workers here. I, along with I H other signees, support the right of employees at Notre Dame to choose for themselves whether or not to organize a union and collectively bargain. 
Patrick Rooney Economics Department 


Fraternity means a true college brotherhood 
DearEditor: 
In response to Chris Lusi's article condemn­ing the articles frequently found in Viewpoint, we would like to address his logical and "mature" arguments. 
First, we wish to refute his allegation that the only similarity between the Greek system and Notre Dame's residence hall system is the fact that both are student residences. Our so­cial life at Notre Dame may not be as good as we would like. Dan McCullough was not, however, trying to say that Notre Dame's residence hall system is socially comparable to that of fraternities and sororities. He stressed the fact that the strong hall spirit and togetherness found in dorm life at Notre Dame is equivalent to that of the Greek sys­tem. The word fraternity does not mean social life. The word fraternity means brotherhood ­and that is the essence of McCullough's ar­ticle. 
We would guess, after reading your letter, Lusi, that your social agenda probably does does include watching paint dry. On the other hand, we know for a fact that there are many people here at Notre Dame who maintain a very active and dynamic social life. This being the case, we would have to agree with you that the suggestion, "If it is so bad here, why don't go you somewhere else?" would do you absolutely no good. It is your apathetic at­titude which hinders your social life. In order to improve your social life, you must make a conscious effort to do so. 
Second, we just do not see the connection between the problems in South Africa and problems at Notre Dame. We, as students, do have the power to do something about the things we disagree with. We can attempt to change the situation, or, as has been suggested before, go somewhere else. If someone moans and groans about a situation but does nothing to alleviate the problem, what is wrong with suggesting that the person leave? No one is being held hostage here at Notre Dame. Those who are being oppressed in South Africa, on the other hand, do not have the choices which are available to us. Hundreds of black South Africans who have attempted to bring about change, have been shot. Exactly how many Last, we would like to address Lusi's attack 
Notre  Dame  students  were  shot  in  the  
demonstrations  against  the  impending  al­ 
cohol policy?  


on the logic and maturity of the letters that 
appear in Viewpoint. He concluded his letter 
in this manner: "So why don't you get real 
McCullough and write something that is non­
fiction. You probably believe in the tooth 
fairy, too." Logical and mature? 

Moreover, did you feel that your article of­
fers a viable solution to the social problems 
here at Notre Dame, Lusi? You state that the 
most Viewpoint columns merely make 
excuses. Your article does not make excuses ­
yet if offers no solutions to Notre Dame's so­
cial problems. We are inclined to think that 
apathetic moaners such as yourself add to the 
problem, not the solution. 

Todd Waldmann Bill Celebrezze Dillon Hall 

Saint Mary's must clean its own image first 
DearEditor: 

In response to many of the Saint Mary's stu­dents who are fighting to uphold the idea that Saint Mary's is proud of its heritage and its standards amongst women without any need or want of men at their institution, I propose something which it seems you have over­looked. It seems to me the core of your problem dwells among yourselves and not in the minds ofNotre Dame students. The reason I say this relates toa very specific incident. My roommate recently told me of a very "interesting" conversation she had with a Saint Mary's student. It went for the most part as follows: 
Notre Dame woman (my roommate):"... One of the biggest reasons I came to Notre Dame was to get a great education." 
Saint Mary's woman (extremely bewil­dered): "An education?" 
Notre Dame woman:"Yes. An education. (A bit stunned) Why did you come to Saint Mary's?" 
Saint Mary's woman: (quite assuredly) "Why, to get a husband, ofcourse!" 
As amusing as this may seem, it is quite fac­tual and it is embarrassing to Saint Mary's stu­dents. It is people like this twisted young woman that give Saint Mary's a "roving eye" stereotype. I am certain that many of you at Saint Mary's will be disgusted and perhaps even angry at this girl's attitude. 
But, regardless of the fact that many of you are very career-oriented and have a lot of pride in yourselves, this girl's comments un­fortunately stick out like a sore thumb and put quite a scar on your reputation. You who are there at Saint Mary's to get educated are being labelled perhaps unfairly because ofsuch out­looks and something should be done about this. Let your angers be heard! Get within seconds ofstrangling such women who make a bad name for you all. 
I have met many fine and proud girls from Saint Mary's and I feel I should let you be aware of some of the damages your own col­lege residents are doing to your reputation. 
]eanRozum Pasquerllla East 


Editorial Board Operations Board 


The___Observer 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Editor-in-Chief . ......................... Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager . . . Davtd Stephenl!ch Managmg Editor. . ............... Amy Stephan Controller.. .... William J. Htghducheck News Editor.. ... Keith Harrison Jr Advertismg Manager ..... JtmHaganThe Observer 1s the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of News Editor.. . ..... Dan McCullough Systems Manager .. Mark B Johnson Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary·s College. It does not necessarily reflect the poltcies of the 
Saint Mary·s Executive Edttor . ..... Theresa Guarino ProductiOn Manager . John A Men nell 
admtntstratton of ellher mstttutton. The news IS reported as accurately and objecllvely as pos­
Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ....... Jeff Biumb 

Sible. Unstgned edttonals represent the opmion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
Accent Editor. . . . . . ....... .. . . ..... Mary Healy 

tanes. leners and the lllSide Column present the v1ews of their authors. Column space is 
Viewpoint Editor...... . ........... Joe Murphy avatlable to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opintons on 
Photography Editor.... . ........ Peter C. Laches campus. through leners. is encouraged. Copy Chief................... . ........... Frank Lipo Founded November 3, 1966 
---~­



Sports Briefs 
The off-campus football team will have practice tomorrow. All players must attend or call Kevin at 272­0416 before practice. -The Observer 
The ND junior class will sponsor a softball festival tomorrow beginning at 4 p.m. Teams will consist of 10 juniors, four of whom must be women. Prizes will be awarded to the winnng team, as well as to the team with the most creative uniform, and food will be provided for all participants. All juniors are invited to attend and cheer on their classmates. The food should be pretty good, too. ­The Observer 
The ND Cycling Club will be meeting tonight at 8:15p.m. in the New Orleans Room in LaFortune.-The Observer 
The novice fencing program will begin on 
Monday at 6:30p.m. in the fencing gym above Gate 4 ofthe ACC. Any students, both men and women, who are interested may attend the first session in athletic attire. Thereafter, practices will be every Monday and Wednesday from 6:30p.m. to 8:30p.m. For more in­formation, contact fencing coach Mike DeCicco. -The Observer 
J

Thursday, October 3, 1985 -page 8 
The ND-Air Force football game will be broadcast live Saturday on WVFI AM-64. "The Irish Today" pregame show begins at 1:55 p.m., and Pete Pranica and Vito Gagliardi will have the play-by-play at 2:30p.m. -The Observer 
Open co-ree volleyball games will be played tonight and every night from 9 p.m. to 10:45 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. -The Observer 
Bodyfat measurements will be provided by NVA on Monday from 7:15p.m. to 9 p.m. at the NVA in the ACC. The testing is free for all students, faculty .and staff. -The Observer 
NVA co-ree basketball rosters offive men and five women are due Wednesday at the NVA office in the ACC. Call 239­6100 for more information. -The Observer 
NVA racqetball tournament entries are due Wednesday at the NVA office in the ACC. The best-of-three singles tourney includes three divisions: men's, women's and grad-faculty. Call 2 39-61 00 for more information. -The Observer 

Notebook 
continuedfrom page 12 
and has been doing some running the past t;wo days. At Tuesday's press conference, Coach Gerry Faust said he believed that Brown would be able to play against Air Force. linebacker Cedric Figaro (sprained wrist suffered against Purdue) is listed as questionable for Saturday, while linebacker Mike Larkin (sprained ankle vs. Michigan State), and guard Tim Scannell (knee strain vs. Michigan State) are expected to return to the lineup after missing the Purdue game. Guard Shawn Heffern (sprained ankle vs. Purdue) is also probable for Saturday's game The Irish did ac­complish something in an otherwise unpleasant visit to Ann Arbor two weeks ago -senior defensive tackle Greg Dingens, who interviewed with officials from Michigan's medi­cal school that weekend, recently received word of his acceptance. 

Th<' Ohs<'n•er ~otr<: Dam.: otfict:. I<Katnl on tht· third floor of LaFortunl' Student Center. accepts dassifkd adverthing from l) a.m. until ·I p.m .. ~londa\ through fridaY The Ohst'rl'<'r Saint ,\tan··, offkl'. locall'd on the third tloor of Haggar Collt·gt· <:entt·r. acn:pts dassifkds from 12:.~0 p m. until .~ p m ...\ton day though frida\· !kaoline fi>r nl'Xt·day dassifinb b 5 p.m All dassifil'ds must ht· prepaid. dther in person or hy mail. Charge is I() t"l'nts per five charac­


Classifieds 

ters er day. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287·4082 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8117 
Wordprocesaing Cal Dolores 2n-6045 
$1~ WEEKLY/UP MAIUNG CIR­CULAJIISI NO QUOTAS! SINCERELY INTERESTED RUSH SELF· ADDRUS£0 ENVELOPE: SUCCESS, PO .OX 470CEG, WOODSTOCK, IL 
60018. 
Professional word procesoing and typing. Convenient location on N. Ironwood. Call 2n-4220 for appointment. 
Scholer8hipa and olfler financial aid sources are available to firat and aecond year students. Let L.S. Guidance Service, a local company, find lflem for you. Con· tad us for additional information. L.S. Guidance Service, P.0. Box 4844, Elkhart, IN 46514. 

LOST/FOUND I 
LOST:One denim jacket with kinde funky Greg Brady zippers up the side. It was left in the Engineering Auditorium on Wed.the 25th. Please cell Kevin at 2103 if lound. Thanks Heapa. 
LOST: TAN WALLET AT THE LIBRARY, AROUND THE 2ND OR 13TH FLOORS ON 9/25. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL JIM AT 272·6016. 
ATIENTION DANA BAINBRIDGE!!! YOU LEFT YOUR SCHOOL 10 AND VALl-DINE AT PANDORA'S ON SEPT. 23 AND I HAVE IT. YOU MUST BE STARVING. CALL MARY'BETH AT 288· 55n TO CLAIM. YOU MUST BE DANA BAINBRIDGE TO CLAIM. 
LOST DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT RING. REWARD OFFERED. IF FOUND, PLEASE CONTACT ALICE 232·6069. 
LOST: Set of 15 keys on two intercon­neded rings on 9/19/85. If you think thai you have found them, please cell Jon at 2n·8171 or 239-6471. Please leave your name and number. 
Found:wriatwatch.Found Friday night on south quad between Lyons and Fisher area. Description needed. Cllfl3046. 
LOST: dk. blue backpack in aoulfl dining hal 9/30 around 5:50p.m. contents: Tl 35 celculator, eyeg!U1811 and case. pink hightighter, bend music, calrinel reeds and mouthpiece, beginning French te.-, ft. blue notebook, two computer dieca. If someone has it pi-cell Sloan at 4553 or bring to 838 P.E. No questions asked. 
ALL RIGHT!! WHOEVER "BOIUIOWED"" MY JORDACHE TWO. TONE DENIM JACKET FROM THE SOH'S WORKERS' COAT RACK ON 1128, I WOULD APPRECIATE ITS RETURN EXTREMELY. I VALUE IT VERY HIGHLY AND IT'S THE ONLY ONE I HAVE TIL BREAK. SO PLEASE JUST DROP IT OFF AT 400 LYONS OR CALL 2815. NO QUESTIONS ASKED. THANK YOU!! 
LOST: a RED women's jacket in the library or in Cushing. PLEASE!!! contad Robin at x4030 if found. 
Loat: Gold watch;Pulaar,near Oeveland S!reet.Conlad Katie at 284· 5157 
LOST: Blue 10Toider withfootbell tickelll and license. Loat Friday nite at a good party with some great people. I'm desperate! Reward. MBC,283-1762. 
LOST:IIrown .IMaport IIKkpeck Mon­day nl181n South Dining Hal. Conl81na kaya,Franch,Sclance,ancl IR ntebooka.l'd be one happy puppy If you could return tham,no quaettona 
•kad.call KAREN at 28~238 any hour. 
.___F_O_R_R_EN_T___.I 
FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED.NOTRE DAME APT$.112/mo.CALL ALICE 232-6069. 
Male housemate needed 1/4 mile from NO 133/mtlflutil.272·3832 
GRAD ROOM $100/MO 2n·2045 

WANTED 
Need ride to Dayton any weekend. Call Maria4174. 
NEED RIDERS TO BOSTON AREA FOR OCTOBER BREAK LEAVING AFTER ARMY GAME ON SATURDAY. OCT. 18. CALL PRISCILLA AT 284·5312 
RIDE NEEDED TO MADISON WIS. THIS WEEKEND OCT 4·6 PLEASE CALL STACEYX4118 
Riders needed:Anyone interested in ren· ting a carlo go home to Florid a for Fall Break call Nancy at 4032 
HELP! Nice girl with good bladder desperately seeks ride to/from NEWARK/ No. Jersey area Oct. break. WiN share usual. Call Pat AT 287-6359. 
$$$$$$WANTED$$$$$$ Travel enthusiasts wanted to join the na· lion's moat reputable campus Rep. Sales Team. Earn unlimited commiiSions and Free trips promoting Ski and Beach trips. Call SUNCHASE TOURS INC. Today! 1· 800·321·5911 
Need RIDERS !o BOSTON leaving fri 18th, cell Tom eve's 287·6722 
WANTED: Used Telephone Answering Machine. Call Todd, 2n-2640. 
NEED RIDE TO DETROIT AREA ON FRIDAY OCTOBER 11th. WILL SHARE EXPENSES PLEASE CALL KAREN 284· 4244. 
Fastidious, finicky and laithful main­tenance team wanted lor BRIDGETS Must be 21 and terrific. Apply in person. 
NEED 4TH MALE FAST 4 NEARBY APT. 112/MTHI1/4EL. 288-4753(LATE) 
WANTED: Attractive girl that plays video games, Zaxxon excluded. Call Jim: 2n­
0032 

FOR SALE 
1977 Olds Cut Sup Brougham: 350 V-8; pa,pb,A/C,T-Tops,Cruise,Recenl Eagle Sill, 1 OOw Custom Stereo. Sharp! Robert AT 256-9346. 
1965 CHEVY 11, a claaaic, no rust, runs great, $2000.233-7463. 
15-inch color TV, 1 year old $150 must sell 2397632 or 2725612 
79 Chevette 4-door stick, exc cond, 52000 m, $1850 must sell 2725612 or 2397632 
For Sala: Apple l..,...wrltar Printer-­less lflan a year old. Hardly Used. Asking $350 Call Tom at 2308 after 8pm 
.__I_T_IC_K_ET_S_____. 
Help I need 2 Army GA's. Have 1 USC Stud and/or cash to trade; call Ned 1043 
I NEED 4 TIX FOR NO.USC GAME. W/TAKE28ETSOF2.CALL25&-e761. 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR ARMY. CALL 284­
5523 
................................. 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR THE ARMY GAME. 
CALL SUE 284-54 77. 
I NEED GAa FOR ARMY I USC.•272· 6306 
FREE SEX FOR 2 ARMY GA'S CALL CLAYTON AT 1373 ALSO PY CASH 
WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR FOR 2 USC GAs!x2280 
WILL TRADE TWO TICKETS FOR ARMY GAME FOR TWO TICKETS TO LSU GAME. CALLJANE2141. 
Will trade two ticketillo Army game for two tickelll to Miaaissippi game. Call Jane, 2141. 
GOT ARMY TIX? P/U PHONE & CALL TONY 1893. 
WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR 3 ARMY GA'S AND 2 LSU GA'S CALL STEVE AT 1733/1757 
...................... 
Need 3 LSU tix; Call Tom at 1226 
....... .... •····· ..................... . 
NEEDED: 2 LSU GA'S CALL 28~238 
NEED ....USC. TIX!I!!!! AS MANY G.A./STUDENT AS POSSIBLE!!! WILL PAY WELL--CALL MOLLY AT 2870. .......................... HELP! LOST BROTHER 18 FOUND. FAMILY REUNION AT ARMY GAME. NEED 2 GA'S, 1 STUDENT. CALL 1155. 
PLEASE HELP AN UNFORTUNATE 
SENIOR whose family has never seen 
Notre Dame!!!! Do you have 3 GAs for the 
USC game? Will pay $! Linda V. 
(219)2n-6856. 
.................-............ 
HEY YOU! Need cash fast? Got a NAVY 
ticket (stud or GA)? We can make a deel • 
Name your price (it doesn't have to be 
money!) Call 13731ate. 
Wlehtobuy GA «atudant till lor LSUorUSC.,_ call Chuck at 1504. 
NEEDED· USC GA's. Will pay top$! Call A1287·9196. 
I NEED 2 OR 3 USC GA'S CALL MIKE AT 1605 OR STOP BY 304 GRACE, THE DIVE!! 
HAVE $$$.Need 1 USC & 1 Navy tix.Call Paul3467. 
I'M IN DESPERATE NEED OF 2 ARMY GA'S!! PLEASE CALL 284·4310. $$$ 
Help! I desperately need 2 tix for the USC game!!! Call Nancy x~784 
BRING 2 NEWLYWEDS TO SOUTH BEND FOR A TASTE OF CAL. WILL PAY FOR TWO USC GAs. PLEASE HELP MY SIS'S MARRIAGE. CALL JEANIE 2857 
LET'S TALK CASH. I NEED ONE USC GA OR STUD TICKET. CALL DAN X1208. 
-need USC GA"S and STU TIX 
wilting to be Cl'eallva cal!232'*697 
I need one ticket for USC·ND. Call 256­5175. 
WANT A PRO TO WORK YOU OVER? My sister the Maaaeuse can "do it" to you in exchange for a USC ticket. GA/Studenl ticket-no pref. Please call2968 wilfl an of· ler. (You won't regret it.) 
Need many USC GA tix. Will pay big bucks! Please call289-3477. 


PERSONALS 
Acloud does not know why it moves in justsuch a direction andatsuch a speed. itfeels an impulsion . .. this is the place to go now. 
Butthe sky know& the reuons and the patterns behind all clouds, and you wiN know, too, when you lift yourself high enough to see beyond horizons. 
·Richard Bach. lllualona. 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S 31 N., 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
Help us avoid the Beanlown blues. Give us a ride to Boston or vicinity for Octobef break. Call Maria 4174. 
Thank You St Jude 
THE RUSSIANS ARE COMING! OC· TOBER 11 
ALL THE SMIRNOFF ONE CAN HANDLE!! OCTOBER 11 
Poat·G..cluate Opportunltlaa.Day Tomorrow, Oct. 4,12-4 Center for Social Concerns, patio JVC,HCA,Channel plus more. 
·ENGINEERING SPAC ·TUESDAY OC· TOBER 8TH MAKE INFORMED CAREER CHOICES (GRAD SCHOOL OR INDUSTRY) • SIGN UP NOW • REGRISTRATION ENDS MIDNIGHT OCT3RD 
PHILADELPHIA PHILADELPHIA PHILADELPHIA PHILADELPHIA Oc· Iober Break bus sign-ups Thursday Oct. 3, Lafortune AT 8:00 p.m. ?'s call Dave Graham 3270 or Mike Poynton 288·6176 
BED 'N BREAKFAST, FOOTBALL WEEKENDS, NO & SMC PARENTS. TWO NITE MINIMUM. 10 MINS. FROM CAMPUS. CALL 291-6152. 
Need 2 STUDENT TICKETS FOR THE USC GAME, preferably in the Senior sec· tion ... .WILL PAY $$$$!!!! Linda V. (219)2n-6856. 
LEWIS HALL FROZEN YOGURT SHOP NOW OPEN WED. THURS. & SUN. 8:30­11:30 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY, KEVIN 
HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES-Chile Slide Show/Discussion with Stacy Hen­nessey/Claude Pomerleau. Monday Oc­tobef 7, at the escfrom 7-8pm. 
Workers needed for Oktobertesl Beer Gartens Must be 21 years old!!! Thurs. Ocl10 9-1am Free Admission into Tent 
Call Fran: 284·5019 
····························· THERE WILL BE A GENERAL MEETING OF THE NOTRE DAME CYCLING CLUB THURSDAY, OCTOBER 3, AT 8:15 IN THE NEW ORLEANS ROOM OF LAFORTUNE DUES WILL BE COL· LECTED. FUTURE PLANS WILL BE DISCUSSED. 
ATIN. SERIOUS RUNNERS TERRY FOX RUN AT PURDUE 10/19 ENTRY FORMS IN LAFORTUNE ?'S CALL DREW3287 
Jackie Deneault it's your birthday so party it up. But remember lobe good,and if you can't be good,be careful! !!FELICIDADES!!! Loveya. Tara and Ani. 
ATIENTION!!! ANYONE INTERESTED IN BEING ON A COMMITIEE TO RESEARCH AND PLAN A SPECIAL SAINT MARY'S CALENDAR PLEASE CALL: MICHELLE 4405, BETSY 51n, ANGIE 5157, KATIE 4420 
ATIENTION ALUMNI RESIDENTS!!! "THE FLING QUEEN" WOULD LOVE TO GO TO YOUR DANCE PLEASE CALL ASAP AT 284-4403 
URBAN PLUNGE URBAN PLUNGE URBAN PLUNGE Explore a new horizon ... take the Urban Plunge. A 48 hr. inner city immersion during Christmas break. Experience con­ditions of poverty and injustice while in­creasing your awareness of what is being done to alleviate these probl!'ms. Do the PLUNGE! URBAN PLUNGE URBAN PLUNGE URBAN PLUNGE 
NOVENA TO ST. JUDE HOLY ST. JUDE, APOSTLE AND MAR· TYR, GREAT IN VIRTUE AND RICH IN MIRACLES, NEAR KINSMAN OF JESUS CHRIST, FAITHFUL INTERCESSOR OF ALL WHO INVOKE YOUR SPECIAL PATRONAGE IN TIME OF NEED, TO YOU I HAVE RECOURSE FROM THE DEPTH OF MY HEART AND HUMBLY BEG TO WHOM GOD HAS GIVEN GREAT POWER TO COME TO MY AS· SISTANCE. HELP ME IN MY PRESENT URGENT PETITION. IN RETURN I PROMISE TO MAKE YOUR NAME KNOWN AND CALL YOU AT BE INVOKED. SAY: 3 OUR FAATHERS, 3 HAIL MARYS, AND 3 GLORY BES FOR 9 DAYS ... ST. JUDE PRAY FOR US AND ALL WHO INVOKE YOUR AID. AMEN. PUBLICATION MUST BE PROMISED. THIS NOVENA HAS NEVER BEEN KNOWN TO FAIL. 
JOHN: WE THINK IT WOULD BE IN YOUR BEST INTEREST TO WEAR EARRINGS TO DINNER ON FRIDAY. THE GIZMO KNAPPERS 
BIMBY: YOU'RE TERRIFIC! FRIDAY, THEN? GOOD LUCK! --SEAL 
P.S. QUIT THREATENING MY 
FRIEND'S DATES WITH VICE· GRIPS!...BUT THANKS. 
YO LISA···YES, YOU! HERE'S YOUR PERSONAL! VISA'S ITCHING AGAIN! 
Keenan 4-N Roommates of the Week Ed Quinn and J1m Higgina ahu WINNIE AND SLUGGO 
JENNIFER DIEM: HAPPY BIRTHDAY!! THERE'S NO WAY YOU'LL BE DRIVING THE HORNET TONIGHT!! LOVE. THE GANG 
beBOOM beBOOM! 
MARILU for NDQB 
Yea, we're mean. Yea, we're coot Gonna ride on your face like a Kawasaki. .. VROOM! VROOM!'! 
To Julie with the pink eyes in Lemans. If you ever want to wrestle in lime jetlo with me, you'd beHer get well soon! Love Dave 
PAM, Thanks for the pasl10 months and 19 days' You're the most superfantaatic· beslerest·awesome girl I've ever known! Have a great 22nd BIRTHDAY!! Love AL· WAYS, John 
Attention: GIZMO KIDNAPPERS; Domino's has agreed to subsidize the ransom payment, they do inaisllhal they receive an order(x·large) before they shell out the cash. II you don't allow him to he may go into withdraw!, pleue be aympal· hetic! ·a worried T·bear and J.M. 
"Moo moo, I love you 
I know you're a cow 
but anything'll do 
co-whee, can't you see 
I just want to make love to you" Thanks. 
PAUL. GREG YOU WERE WONDER­
FUL ps--was it good for you, too? 
BRIDGET'S BARGAINS: Good during all 
open hours on specified days. MON & 
TUES • $.60 DRAFTS. WED • $.75 
ROOT BEER SHOTS ... THURS -$1.00 
MOLSONS...FRI • $.75 WATERMELON 
SHOTS ... $.35 HOT MUNCHIES DAILY. 
chester .. 
WASHINGTON DC CLUB FALL BREAK BUS SIGN-UPS: TUES 10/08 7-6PM 2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE· $65 ROUND TRIP. 
RIDERS NEEDED TO ROCHESTER, NY FOR OCT. BREAK. LEAVING FRI. OCT. 18 AND RETURNING FRI. OCT. 25 IN TIME FOR PEP RALLY. CALL FRANK AT 1549. NYC RESIDENTS NEED NOT CALL 
Debbie, Maureen, Di and lriends· We stil love you. Beep Beep Beep ... The Chuds. 
ATIENTION JMB-511 C.A.: I have "seen you around." You do "look like you're alot of fun," and I am your "Julie." Do you like green paper? L.B.'s a great seaelary' LOVE, VML·131H03 V.C. 
Happy 21st Birthday Christopher Joseph!!! I MISS YOU!!!! Love,Lisa. 
dear tape measure man & gary, thanks lor our shelves, and our beds are bouncing great!!!! "hey, garrrmry............ 3 inches." i just hale it when that happens!! LONG LIVE TAPE MEASURE MAN! i love you too, paul, but my revenge will be sweeter!!!!!!!! love, katie-may & bean 
NEED RIDERS TO DENNISON OHIO THIS WEEKEND IF INTERESTED PLEASE CALL 4431 IMMEDIATELY FOR MORE INFORMATION 
Mitch haa the itch for M.G. 
Larry Burke: you horse! Jeff Blumb: you letterman! Dan McCullough: you dog you! Aimee and Keith: we love you! 

The Observer Thursday, October 3, 1985 -page 9 
Wins tournament at Purdue 
Baseball Standings 

Rugby Club having good year 
By MIKE KEEGAN 
NATIONAL LEAGUE AIIEIIICAN LEAGUE 

bet  bet  
w  L  Pet.  Q8  w  L  
St. Loooa  98  60  .620  - TOfonto  98  59  
New Vorl<  97  61  .614  1  New York  94  63  
Montreal  82  75  .522  15.5  Detroit  82  75  
ChlctiQO  75  82  .478  22.5  BeltimOfe  80  76  
Ph1~ph11  72  84  .462  25  Boeton  80  n  
Poltlbu'llh  54 101  .348  42.5  Milwaukee  68  89  
Clevelend  59100  
Weet  Weet  
•·Loe AnQe1ee  94  64  .595  - Clllllornie  88  70  
Concinneti  87  70  .554  6.5  KeneuCity  88  70  
S.nDIIIQO  81  n  .513  13  ChictogO  82  76  
Houeton  eo  78  .506  14  O.klllnd  76  83  
Attente  64  94  .405  30  Minneeote  75  84  
Sen Freooaco  60  98  .380  34  S..ttle  73  85  
Texu  61  97  

Sports Writer 
Pet. Q8 
.624 ­
Things are going smoothly for the
.599 4 .522 16 
Notre Dame Rugby club now, both 
.513 17.5 
on the field and off the field.
.510 18 .433 30 
Two years ago, though, the club 
.371 40 
was placed on indefinite probation. .557 ­
This probation was enacted as a 
.557 ­
result of a few negative situations 
.519 6 
that some of the players were in­
.478 12.5 .472 13.5 
volved in during a postmatch party 
.462 15 
at the University of Indiana.
.386 27 
"Because of the probation, the 
WednMdrf'l....._.lt8 WednMdrf'IIIMU118 
players now must take buses to the 
New Vorl< 5, St. Lou112 Kenau City 4, ClllifOfnie 0 
Loe Angelle II, Allanll3 Delro/14, Toronto2 
matches and leave immediately after Sen Do ego 5. Clnanneto 4 Milweukee 1 . New Y011< 0 
the contest," says club president Phil Sheraton. "This prevents the team from having or attending any party associated with a rugby game." 

ErasDlus Books 


As to when the probation may be
1027 E. Wayne 
lifted, team captain Mark Wein­
Tues • Sun, noon • 6 
gartner believes never. 
1 block south of Jefferson & Eddy UHd A 011t of prlat boo..boa•llt. eold, •-n:lled 
"It is a disciplinary measure and that is all," says Weingartner. "The Rugby Club will always be watched so social problems don't occur again in the future." 
Even though the social aspect of the game has been stripped away,




EASY RIDER 
the Irish have enjoyed considerable success this fall season.
TO AND FROM CHICAGO'S O'IIAilE 
Initially, the Rugby Club won­
EVERY Z HOURS EVERY DAY dered whether or not it would have a successful season at all. In their opening match, the team suffered a one-sided defeat to the University of
United Limo 
Michigan. Weinganner felt the loss
~HUUI 
left doubts in many of the players




,.__ 
minds. "The club played a sloppy game," 

lllfli, 
says the senior captain. "Because of the decisive loss, we were all ques­
10844 McK•nley Hwy Osceotd ~..,lniUHIIIHII 
tioning how good we really were."
674-6993 ''i ~~.-~ IIIIIIIIIIIDIII Since that opening loss, though, Notre Dame has come alive. In its
255-3068 ~1//JI/1 I' r·.· t 'IIIH Hlllll 
second game, the team destroyed
01 Cdll your !ravel AQPIII •: 11 I IWIIIIIIIIIII oilllleI ' ,~ Jllllllllllllltllr.l
hl•llllllllll•ll II 
John Carroll University, 25-0. This victory boosted team confidence. 


With this new-found confidence, the Irish went down to Purdue to participate in the Indiana Rugby Union Tournament. The opening two matches proved to be no con­tests as the team impressively defeated Ball State and Indiana State University, 19-8 and 18-3 respectively. Standouts in these two matches were Brad Mollet and senior Tom McDonald. 

"Brad played extremely well on defense in addition to winning every lineout," says Sheraton. "In addition, Tom played as well as I have seen anyone play all year." 
DISCOUNT RECORDS & TAPES 


Coming off these two wins, the players in the 28-24 come-from­team played Purdue on Sunday for behind victory. the championship. After a miserable "Throughout the entire weekend first half which found the Irish trail­the team played inspired rugby," ing 18-6, the team held the Purdue continued Weingartner. "In addi­offense in check and struggled to set tion to Young, Kevin Lennon up a tying score. With no time left, provided the guidance and leader­Bill Young scored a tri to tie the ship the team needed. The inspira· game. A tri occurs when the offense tion of the team had to be Gary crosses the goal line and places the Flannigan who played despite ball on the ground. Then, only one severely bruised ribs." minute into the first overtime Because ofthis championship, the 
period, Bill Young literally ran over Rugby club is almost assured a bid to and around the Purdue defense to the National Rugby Championships score the winning tri. in the spring. Its remaining fall home schedule consists ofplaying the Uni­
"It was the best game I have seen versity of Chicago on October 12th in my career here at Notre Dame," at 1 p.m., Northwestern on October says Weingartner. "Bill Young was 19th at 10 a.m., and Marquette on tlte standout. For the final score he November 2nd at 10 a.m .. All games ran over at least eight Purdue are played on Stepan Field. 
Premier runners to take part in Sportsmed run Saturday 
TRACKS HAS IT ALL 
NEW YORK CAST
•Imports •Over 1,500 
The Famous Musiqll Story 
CO's In stock •Classical •Reggae •Blues 
12".and 45's 

SEE US FIRST 
MaxeU 

XLII90's 

Another satisfied customer 
6for $1250 
YOU CAN WALK TO TRACKS 
"Let Me Entertain You" 
At the comer of Edison Rd & St. Rd. 23 Just ac.-oss from the King's Cellar 

"Everything's Coming Up Roses" FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11-8:00 p.m. O'LAUGHUN AUDITORIUM SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE .Reserved Seats $10 for info call: (219) 284-4626 Mail Requests to: Saint Mary' • College, 
P.O. Box 114, Notre Dame, IN 46556 


By CHRIS STARKEY 
Sports Writer 

Distance-running enthusiasts from around the world will gather in South Bend on Saturday to compete in the fifth annual Sportsmed 1 0­Kilometer run. 
Sponsored by Saint joseph's Medi­cal Center, the event regularly draws some of the premier runners in the world, including such par­ticipants as joan Benoit, Alberto Salazar, and Bill Rodgers. It is ex­pected to draw a total of around 2,800 runners this year. 
lbis year's featured runner is former Olympian Frank Shorter. Shorter was the gold medalist in the 1972 Olympic marathon and the sil­ver medalist in 1976 in the same event. Race Directors Ron Craker and Carter Wolf were understan­dably pleased at Shorter's participa­tion. 
"We're just elated to have a runner of Shoner's caliber," says Craker. "He's an athlete with an in­ternational reputation, and that's nice to have." 
Shoner will be also acting as the official starter for Notre Dame's home cross country meet on Friday afternoon. 
Joining Shorter in the Sportsmed run, meanwhile, are several other world class competitors, headed by Englishman Nick Rose. Rose, a two time Olympian himself, recently broke the world record in the half· marathon. Craker considers Ro~ to be the man to beat. 
Also a strong threat is last year's Sportsmed winner Dan Henderson, who returns to defend his title. 
Among the women, the race features Britain's Prlscella Welch, who is still winning marathons at 40 years of age. She will be challenged by Leslie Welch and Suzanne Girard. 
Craker said the race will be ac­cepting entries until Saturday. It costs ten dollars to enter, and this can be done at Pro Health of South Bend, Saint joseph's Bank, and WNDU. Students are encouraged to enter. There is also a 1 1 /2-mile Fun Run starting just after the 1OK run begins, as well as a running clinic on Sunday from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. at the Century Center conducted by Shorter himself. 
Funher information may be ob­tained by calling Pro Health at 234­3034. 



Irish 
contmuedfrom page'J2 
hope to increase thier win total this week as they play Goshen, today at 4 p.m., Calvin, on Friday, and Albion, on Sunday. All three matches will be at home at Cartier Field on the artifi­cial turf of which Notre Dame is ac· customed to playing. 
"In all three matches, we should win pretty handily because we are faster on the turf than the other schools,"admits Undenfeld. "In fact, Calvin and Albion have never played on artifical turf. Hopefully, in all three matches we can jumpout to an early lead which will allow me to play the other players who need ex­perience." 

Junior 
continued/rom page 12 
Despite the recent offensive 
trouble of DIGiacomo In front ofthe 
net, Undenfeld commented on the 
improvement in DIGiacomo's over­
all play. 
"She has really improved her pas· 
sing game and her stickwork," says 
Undenfeld. "Her ball control is get· 
ling better, but there is room for 
more improvement in that area. She 
has got to keep the ball closer to her 
body." 
As her game becomes more com­plete, DiGiacomo is confident that her offen~. as well as the team's, will come along. She says she is espe­cially optimistic regarding the remainder of the schedule. 
"I'm really psyched about the rest of the season," says DiGiacomo. "We're working very hard and we've been learning from our mistakes. We've been together for three years and we work well together." 
The Observer Thursday, October 3, 1985 -page 10 


Suglich likes her role as setter 
By CHUCK FREEBY 
Sports Writer 
Jill Suglich is probably the only woman on the Notre Dame campus who doesn't mind being called an Irish setter. 
In fact, Suglich wouldn't mind being called the Irish setter. 
So far this season, Suglich has been granted her wish. The Chicago sop­homore has held down the setting duties for the Notre Dame volleyball team in every match this year, and her performance has been ad­mirable despite the team's 2-8 record. 
"She's made tremendous im­provement this season," remarks Irish volleyball coach Art Lambert. "Learning to set the intricacies ofthe 5-1 offense is not an easy task, andJill has had her ups and downs. But she's having far more ups than downs so far." 
That's good news for the Irish, who have to rely on Suglich to run the Notre Dame attack. Her role on offense is much the same as the quar­terback in football or the point guard in basketball. As the setter, she has to take charge. 
"I have to be the leader on the floor," says Suglich of her role. "If I play badly, the team does badly, be­cause I'm not getting the ball to the hitters." 
That isn't always an easy task, as volleyball is a game of constant mo­tion on offense. With as many as three hitters to look for sometimes, it could be unnerving for some players. However, Suglich handles the chaos with a calm demeanor. 
"We have a very simple offense," notes the Pasquerilla East resident. "I know where everyone will be. It's been a little bit of a problem since we have two freshmen in the middle, because it takes us a little while to get used to each other. Still, we're getting more confident every match." 
Suglich hopes that trend con­
tinues this weekend, as Notre Dame 
begins its North Star Conference 
season with a road match at Xavier 
Friday night. Suglich is confident the 
Irish will be ready for the league 
season. 
"I think we can win the con­
ference and get back up to .500 by 
the end of the year," states Suglich. 
"We've improved in nearly every 
game, so you really can't complain 
about what has happened so far." 
Lambert has certainly had very 
few complaints about Suglich's 
game, as he is impressed with the 
sophomore's ability. 
"Before she's through at Notre 
Mets cut lead to one game with 5-2 win 
ST. LOUIS-Dwight Gooden threw a nine-hitter in pitching the New York Mets to a 5-2 victory over Joa­quin Andujar and the St. Louis Car­dina,ls last night, cutting the Cardinals' lead in the National League East to one game. 
Gooden was forced to weather a ninth-inning jam, however, retiring Tom Herr on a line drive to second baseman Wally Backman with the bases loaded and a run in. 
The victory was the second straight for the Mets over the Car­dinals in the three-game series, which concludes tonight. The Mets beat the Cards 1-0 in 11 innings Tuesday night on Darryl Straw­berry's home run. 
George Foster had three hits for the Mets including his 21st homer leading off the seventh. 
Dame, she could be a great setter," 
notes the second-year Irish coach. 
"Her court knowledge, her hitting 
and her play at the net have im­
proved dramatically this season. 
"I'm still not totally satisfied with 
her setting and the way she's getting 
the ball to our hitters. Those are 
areas which need work, but that's 
not unusual for a young player. It 
takes a lot of practice to be a good 
setter, andJill's giving it 110 percent 
this year." 
That's all part of Suglich's style. . One of the most aggressive players 
on the Irish squad, Suglich realizes 
she has to work hard for the team to 
succeed. . 
"I'm not like a cheerleader on the 
floor," remarks the College of Busi­
ness student. "I just try to lead by ex­
ample and to keep everyone up. The 
game is so quick at this level that you 
can't afford to be thinking about 
your last mistake." 
That goes double for Suglich, who has plenty of things to think about on the court. Before the ball is in play, Suglich is already surveying the opposing team's defense for weaknesses. 
"Before the serve, I look to see where the other team's shortest blocker is, where the setter is and where I might dump the ball," says Suglich. "I have to always look for things, because the game is based on three hits, and you want to keep your tempo and break up the other team's." 
IfSuglich can accomplish that task consistently, she has a shot of ac­complishing both of her volleyball career goals. 
"For the team, I would like to see us achieve national ranking before I leave, and I think we can do that. As for myself, maybe I could be remem­bered as a great setter." 
She's already making progress on both ofthose. 
The Oblc-rvcr /Pete Lachn 
Sophomore jill Suglich of the Notre Dame volleyball team, shoum here hitttng a shot in a match earlier this season, likes her role as setter for bead coach Art Lambert's squad. Chuck Freeby features the Chicago native in his story above. 


--FreeRaireuts--. 
Our styled haircuts are only $6°0 
and now we'll give you a card that 
entitles you to every 5th haircut free 
Call or walk on over­
.-------------------------.
The Varsity Shop 
Open6days 
Edison Rd. at St Rd 23
Evenings unt1l 7 30 



2n-oos1 

Student Liaison Committee of The Snite Museum presents 
I 1'\ci•\•o 
..,\o~,ot\1' 
I 
Ann•nb•riJ \ Audil:arium afTh•Snit• 


Ut.5D 




~4(Jt~C3L~-----------------------------------------T·h-ur.s.d.ay•'-o_c_t_o_b_e_r_3_,1_9_s_s
___P_a_g_e_l_l_ 



Bloom County 
&Off{ (}(ff,
SON? 
( 
I'M oN ''COM€T 
Ill£~" 

Zeto 
so ONe ~IMF!-Y c:rJeS SCKJN1 NOT RISK MI561N& ~ SIN&t.€ MOM
I 5f'eCTI1ct/U:IR COMfJT ft.f&Hr IN MOPC{(N C£/.fSTllll H15TOI?Y. I AM l!VIN& J(J~ 
fOI?. 11/lrr MII&IC MOMENT. 
\ 

Berke Breathed WIKXJfl meRe JOK£, The Far Side Gary Larson
rrweNr/ 50N. 
\ ~ l 
Kevin Walsh 
The Daily Crossword 

ACROSS 1 Balneation 5 -fatuus 
10 Tip, as a hat 14 "African Queen" 17 
scenarist 1-::::--t--+-t-+--+­15 Family member 16 Twofold 17 Apple-polish 19 "-Brute" 20 "The Messiah" 
composer 21 Dill 23 Roble 24 Tankard 26 Sign of a cold 28 Responses 
to stimuli 33 From 34 With full 
force 35 Sow 37 Ornamental 
fabric 40 Take-(rest) 41 Cubic meter 42 LendI of 
tennis ~1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 43 Walked All Rights Reserved Wednesday's Solution 44 Rose or Seeger 45 Corsican 3 Sea bird patriot 4 Flock 46 Guido the 5 Multitude of painter arrivals 48 Befell 6 Scala of films 50 Shades 7 Leningrad's 53 Crew member river 54 Manx is one 8 Devotional 55 Key letter objects 57 "The Great 9 Love song Communicator" 10 White House. 62 Melody Initials 64 Teacher's pet? 11 In disrepute 66 Chow 12 Deadly 67 Serviceable 13 Lucky strike 68 Florence's 18 Arab land river 22 "-the 69 Elicit season..." Information 25 "Beau-" 10/3/85 artfully 27 Leafllke 39 Geraint's wife 52 Condition 70 Even 28 Large quantity 41 VIndictive 56 Tel­71 Intend 29 Mideast VIP 45 Thick soup 58 Eden man 30 Partiality 47 Bird beak 59 Vidal DOWN 31 Ger. songs 49 Library booth 60 Pavlova 1 Contemporary 32 Take care of 50 Rascal 61 Gas of20A 36 Put up 51 Polynesian 63 Uraeus 2-Caliente 38 Masculine loincloth 65 Bullring cheer 



Campus 
•LUNCH TIME-Lunch Get Together, South 
Dining  Hall  (Right  Side),  Sponsored  by  
Spanish Club  
•6:30  P.M.  -Lecture,  "Competency  in  

Management", john Anderson, Presidents As­sociation, a Division of the American Manage­ment Association, St. Mary's College Carroll Hall, Sponsored by Department of Business Administration and Department ofEconomics 
•7:00 P.M. -Presentation and Reception, Coopers and Lybrand, Senior Alumni Club, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services, Open to scheduled Accountancy Seniors, Ac­countancy and Computer Science Seniors, and MBA's with Tax or Accountancy Con­centration 

Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Hot Borchst Sauerbraten Bratwurst steamed in Beer Vegetable Pie 
TV Tonight 
6:00P.M. 6:30P.M. 7:00P.M. 
7:30P.M. 8:00P.M. 
8:30P.M. 9:00P.M. 
16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
16 MASH 
22 Three's Company 
16 Bill Cosby Show 
22 Magnum, PI 
28 The Fall Guy 
16 Family Ties 
16 Cheers 
22 Simon and Simon 
28 Lady Blue 
~ A Walk Through The 20th Cen­tury 
16 NightCoun 
16 Hill Stteet Blues 
22 Knots Landing 
28 20/20 

•7:00 
P.M. -Thursday Night FUm Series, "End ofSummer", Loft 

•7:00 
P.M. and 9:30 P.M. -FUm, "The Pink Panther Strikes Again", Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by The Student Uaison Committee of the Snite Museum, SI.'50 

•7:00, 
9:15 and 11:30 P.M. · SAB FUm, "Trading Places", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, SI. 50 

•8:00 
P.M. -Meeting, 343 Nleuwland, Sponsored by Notre Dame Science Quarterly, Meeting for interested writers 


Saint Mary's Broiled Chicken French Dip Sandwich Cheese Omelette Chinese Pepper Beefwith Rice 
~  Mystery:  "Rumpole:  and  the  
Sporting Ufe"  
46  Lesea Alive  
10:00 P.M.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  

~ Masterpiece Theater: "The Irish 
RM" 
46 Manna For Modern Man 
!0:30P.M. 16 Tonight Show 22 Nightheat/CBS Late Movie 28 ABC News Nightllne 
11:00 P.M. 28 Eye On Hollywood ~ Film DuJour: "Uttle Princess" 46 Prai.o;e the Lord 
11:30 P.M. 16 David letterman Show !2:30A.M. 16 All in the Family 
~ ­
-
Thursday, October 3, 1985-page 12
S~orts 

Field hockey team hopes to hit midseason stride 
Irish start homestand today against Goshen 
ByTOMYOON 
Sport's Writer 
When the Notre Dame field hockey team traveled to Michigan State last Tuesday, it expected to encounter a very tough Spartan team, and it did. 
With the Irish leading throughout the game, 1-0, it came down to literally the last second before Michigan State finally scored to knot up the contest at 1-1. The match continued until the game was finally called in the second overtime with the score still tied at 1-1. 
"It was a heartbreaking game," said Head Coach Jill Undenfeld. "The tie felt like a loss because we were leading the whole game until that last second. I felt that they would score because they just kept on coming. And with everyone on offense, it was only a matter of time before they would score." 
Undenfeld was not prepared to accept, however, the way the Spartans finally put the ball in the net. 
"They scored on a weird play in which one of their players got a free hit and it just happened to ricochet off (another) player," said Lindenfeld. "That threw (Notre Dame goalie Patti Gallagher's) timing off and that allowed them to tie the game wih just one second left." 
The Irish goal came when Melissa Sommer, who had sat out much ofthe contestfor a rest, went down the left side of the field and hit a very hard and accurate shot right into the net. 
"Overall, I would have to say that we played a very good game and that Patti, Melissa, and Mary Struckhoff played very well," said Undenfeld. "Mary had the task of defending their best scorer and she did a very good job on defense. I was pleased about the whole game, but in my mind, the tie felt like a loss." 
With the field hockey team's record at 4-4-1, the Irish 
see IRISH, page 9 


junior forward Corinne DiGiacomo led the Notre Dame field hockey team in goals scored last season, although she and her teammates are having a tough time putting the ball in the net this year. The 4-4-1 lrlsh, however, will attempt to get the offense in gear this afternoon against Goshen at 4 p.m. at Cartier Field. Tom Yoon gives details oflast Tuesday's tie with Michigan State in his story at left, while Rick Rietbrock features DiGiacomo at right. 
Coach has confidence in junior DiGiacomo 
By RICK RIETBROCK 
Sports Writer 
Corinne DiGiacomo and the rest of the Notre Dame field hockey team is having a problem scoring goals this season. This fact may be a surprise for the normally productive Irish offense, but it is not nearly as big a mys­tery as last year's leading scorer, DiGiacomo, being kept offthe scoreboard. 
DiGiacomo, however, is well aware of the problem and attributes the lack of scoring punch to a couple of factors. 
"I'm just really having trouble putting the ball in the net," she says. "Also, we've already played two top­twenty teams this year so the defenses have been tough. Last year we started with defenses that were at a level similar to ours, which made it easier to score." 
Scoring has never been a problem before for the junior forward from Rosemont, Penn.. At Radnor High School, she earned honorable-mention honors in the tough Central League by scoring 14 goals and adding si,x assists in her two-year career. 
"My high school had good field hockey and lacrosse programs," says DiGiacomo. "The Central League also provided good competition to help me improve." 
This year, she started the season with 36 career goals, and has added three so far already to tie Kathy Ray for second on the all-time list. Meanwhile, her nine assists last year set a single-season record. 
Goals have not been easy to come by this season, however. 
"Corinne has missed some open shots this year, but our whole team is really struggling with goals," Head CoachJill Undenfeld says. "I think she is pressing a little now that she hasn't been scoring." 
see JUNIOR, page 9 

Irish soccer team rallies in second half to tie Bowling Green 
By CHRIS KOSTER 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame soccer team was able to remedy a sluggish start with an inspired second half of play to take the visiting Bowling Green Fal­cons to a 1-1 tie yesterday at Alumni field. 
The visitors clearly controlled the tempo of the first half and applied constant pressure on the Notre Dame goal. Although they were able to keep the Irish off-balance with a crisp passing attack, the Falcons were ultimately unable to fully dominate play. 
The only goal by Bowling Green came in the first half after 25 minutes ofplay. Midfielder Nan Chul Shin broke away from two Irish defenders to the 18-yard line, and pushed the ball to teammate Mark Jackson on his right. Jackson made a quick move and fired a lowhard shot that Notre Dame goalkeeper Hugh Breslin was able only to get a hand on before it struck the inside of the net. 
Fortunately for the Irish, the Fal­cons were unable to capitalize on the sporadic play of the home team, and Notre Dame left the field at halftime with only a 1-0 deficit. 
"We just were not ready to play," said Irish head coach Dennis Grace. 
"We were very fortunate.it was only 1-0 at halftime. But they were very fortunate it ended in a 1-1 tie, be­cause we were all over them in the second half." 
How true this was. The Irish came 
out with a renewed intensity in the 
second half.. The reversal was ap­
• parent as everything seemed to fall back into place. Intelligent passing, and aggresive teamwork combined to display the domination the Irish had over the Bowling Green squad. 
Notre Dame was able to move the ball fluidly into Falcon territory, for­cing goalkeeper Jeff Vincent to stop 11 of 19 shots. The Irish tied the game at the 73:41 mark from the foot of freshman midfielder Tom Gerlacher. Fellow freshman Joe Sternberg carried the ball to the corner, and hit a low cross past the goalkeeper. Here, Gerlacher punched a shot into the upper left hand corner of the goal. Gerlacher leads the Irish with three goals on the season. 

The team fired consistently on the Falcon goal for the remainder of the game, but were unable to come away with another score. 
In the ensuing ten-minute overtime period, Notre Dame con­tinued to outplay its opponent. The Irish, however, were unable to con­nect for the anticipated winning goal. The most notable opportunity came with 5:45 left. After Sternberg released a shot that Falcon goalkeeper Vincent got a foot on, Gerlacher hit the follow-up shot just over the crossbar. 
Grace did not walk away dis­sapointed. 
"It's bringing out the best in us," admits the second-year Notre Dame mentor. "We're learning, and playing some good soccer. The kids played a great game." 
The Notre Dame soccer unit travels to the Wright State Tourna­ment this weekend. Everyone is feeling positive about the level of play that will be featured. 

Irish must contend with 'Falcon Fever' Saturday 
Irish cornerback Mike Haywood was standing just outside the Notre Dame lockerroom, encircled by a small group of reporters. The Irish had just been trounced by Purdue, 35-17, and the frustrated senior was looking for answers. 
"Will next week's game against Air Force be a 'must game' for Notre Dame?" he was asked. 
"You don't like to be in that situation this early," Haywood replied, 'but I'd have to say that it's a 'mustgame.' Air Force has dominated us for the past three years and we've got to make a change in that." 
Haywood's answer puts Notre Dame's situation in perspective pretty well. The 1-2 Irish must defeat Air Force this Saturday -not only to get their season backon the right track, but also to prove that they can beat a team that has had their number for the past three seasons. 
But an Irish victory Saturday in Colorado Springs will be no easy task. The Falcons are 4-0 and ranked 17th in the nation. They have outscored their opponents this season by a combined total of 205-42. While sold-out stadiums and nationally-televised games are nothing out ofthe ordi­nary for Notre Dame, they are something quite special for the Air Force Academy. The Falcons are off to their best start since 1972, so it's no wonder that the Colorado area is suffering from an epidemic ofFalcon Fever. 
And Saturday the Irish will be walking right into the middle ofit. 
"There's lots ofexcitment here," Air Force coach Fisher DeBerry said in this Tuesday's teleconference. "They tell me we'll have the biggest crowd in history here, and being 

Larry Burke 
Football Notebook 
on national television is a big thing. We don't get on quite as often as Notre Dame." 
The Falcons haven't been on national television since their 1969 season opener against Southern Methodist, but that doesn't mean that Falcon fans are any less supportive oftheir team than the fans at the big-name football schools. And DeBerry's information about the record-setting atten­dance for this Saturday's game is correct. 
"People have been coming out ofthe woodwork for this game," Air Force Sports Information Director Dave Kellog said yesterday. "This game is absolutely sold out -there are no tickets to be had. We've had 4,000 additional seats in­stalled just for Saturday, so we expect a crowd of about 52,000." 
The official capacity for Falcon Stadium is listed as 46,668. The largest home crowd in Academy history is the 49,536 that turned out to see Army beat Air Force, 10-7, in 1967. 
This year's Notre Dame-Air Force game is already dif­ferent from those of the past. 21 years. It is undoubtedly a far cry from the first 1 1 games of the series, when a Notre Dame victory was a vit'tual.certainty. But it is also different from the past three years, when the Falcons have come out on top. This year it is Air Force who is the favorite -and this Falcon team is adjusting well to that new role. 

"It's something new for this team," Kellog said of Air Force's recent rise. "It used to be that we were like David going up against Goliath when we played Notre Dame, but now these players have the feeling that they can play with Notre Dame, and, in fact, that they can play with anybody. This is a veteran-laden team, and they're not intimidated by teams like Notre Dame." 
And Saturday afternoon the Falcons will be shooting for their fourth straight win over the Irish. Only Southern Cal, which beat Notre Dame five straight times between 1978 and 1982, has ever had that kind ofconsistent mastery over Notre Dame. 
EXTRA POINTS-Irish tailback Allen Pinkett is only 192 yards away from breaking Vegas Ferguson's all-time Notre Dame rushing record. But the Irish haven't had much success on the ground so far this season, averaging just 
111.6 yards per game on the ground . Junior walk-on Dan Sorensencurrently ranks sixth in the nation in punting with a 44.6-yard average. He averaged better than 4 7 yards in his nine punts against Purdue last week, with a long of 57 yards . Injury report: flanker Tim Brown is having a speedy recovery from the sprained ankle he suffered last Saturday against Purdue. He's off crutches 
see NOTEBOOK, page 8 







