

Healy's plans-page 3 

VOL XIX, NO. 108 the indc.:pcndc.:nt ~tudcnt ncw~papcr ~lTI ing not rl dame and ~aint m;iry·~ WEDNESDAY, MARCH 6, 1985 

Notre Dame's commitment to graduate work is 'total' 
Large voter turnout, runoffs mark 1985-86 class elections 
By BUD LUEPKE 
StaffReporter 
A large voter turnout marked yes­terday's class elections with two landslide victories and two resulting run-offs. 
Of the freshman class, 70 percent voted in what proved to be the most competitive race of the four. Seven candidates ran in the freshman elec­tion. Of these, two dominated the election. Steve Georgi drew 356 votes to Ted Smith's 353. The failure to obtain a majority spurs a run-off 
tomorrow. 
Georgi saw several common is­
sues across the different platforms. 
He said nearly everyone wanted to 
improve social life and that most 
also mentioned something about re­
ligious activities. Georgi said his 
ticket was unique in the events he 
proposed. "We're offering a Sopho­
more Get Away Weekend in which 
the class will take a trip to Chicago 
or go camping," he said. "We also 
want to increase awareness in what 
is happening in the rest of the 
world." 
Smith stressed the experience of 
his ticket as its advantage. He said all 
three members of the ticket are 
members of the Freshman Advisory 

Election Tally 
Class of 1986 
John Spatz Ed Bornemann 
Class of 1987 
Jim Domagalski Erik Hickey• 
Class of 1988 
Lisa Young Timothy Malone Ted Smith Steve Georgi Steve Lowney Thomas Tracy Pat McGrath 

percent  Off-Campus  percent  
81  Commissioner  
18  
Kevin Howard  22  
Tracy ··Race"Thoman  41  

Tom '"Beaver" McDonald 37 
92 
8 
·as 

28 9 There will be a run-off election 9 tomorrow for those races in 3 which no ticket received a ma­28 jority of the votes. The top two 19 tickets will vie in the run off. 3 
•write-in Candidate 
Council. He and his vice presidential running mate Brian Holst are mem­bers of the Student Senate. Smith also stressed social events, service and class involvement. 
The sophomore ckiss election was the least competitive of the races. Jim Domagalski was re-elected easily over write-in ticket Erik Hickey. Domagalski's re-election is the first class office re-election in the last 1 5 years. 
Of the sophomores, 53 percent voted. Domagalski, whose only loss was in Dillon, expected a lower tur­nout because of the lack ofcompeti­tion. Domagalski said ·the high voter participation is testimony of class confidence in him. 
Domagalski says his future goals are a balance of the -successes of the past and new ideas. "Our platform this year is a balance of the old and the new. We will continue to build class unity and begin to strengthen a class identity." 
A junior class turnout of 42 per­cent voted in its election. John Spatz won by a large margin over Ed Bor­nemann, 601 to 165. 
Spatz said,"A combination of ex­

perience, excitement, and 
dedication paid off." Commenting on his goals for the senior class, Spatz said, "We intend to provide the social atmosphere for the most memorable senior year in which many lasting memories will be formed. We're ready to go and we hope everyone wil try to be a part of• it." 
Off-campus reported the lowest voter participation of all four elec­tions. The race involved three candi­dates: Kevin Howard, Tom 'Beaver' McDonald and Tracy 'Race' Thoman. This election also failed to produce a majoritywinner, so a run­off will occur between McDonald and Thoman. McDonald said he was surprised at the low voter turnout. He said his goal would be to strive for more unity among off-campus residents. "The low turnout shows how much unity is needed," he said. "Many people didn't even know about the election." 
Thoman was also disappointed in the turnout. "I want off-campus gov­ernment to become more structured," she said. Thoman cited her experience as the reason she is proceeding to the run-off. "I am on the liturgical commission, and I have organized several off-campus events," she said. The run-off elec­tion will be tomorrow. 
Nuclear armament in outer space discl!ssed in detail by freeze experts 
By MIRIAM HILL 
SeniorStaffReporter 
Representatives from the Nuclear Weapons Freeze Campaign and the Denmark Schiller Institute clashed over the issue of developing weap­ons in outer space in a debate sponsored by the L-5 Society last night in LaFonune's little Theater. 
The L-5 Society is an international organization that promotes civilian development ofouter space. 
Roger Voelker, a member of St. Joseph County Nuclear Weapons Freeze Campaign, began the debate with the words, "We find ourselves at a crossroads between two very different paths; we can either build more weapons or realize we have a mutual interest with the Soviets to avoid nuclear war and sit down and negotiate." 
Voelker presented two different arguments against the Strategic Defense Initiative or "Star Wars" defense. The first argument dealt with the feasibility of developing SOl. According to Voelker, develop­ing a leakproof shield over the United States and its allies is virtually impossible. Cruise missiles, for ex­ample, which fly low to the ground, could not be hit from a station lo­cated outside the earth's atmo­sphere. Voelker also pointed out, 
The pressure's on Stanford sophomore Paul Anthony has his blood pressure checked by a Red Cross volunteer yesterday outside North Dining Hall. Also at dinner were teams ofstudents "cyclingforMS" aspart ofNotre Dame and Saint Mary's continuing effort to win an MTV­sponsored concert and help fight multiple sclerosis. 
"Any system can be overwhelmed by decoys," which would exhaust the defense system and allow the enemy to send more missiles which could no longer be intercepted. 
Another problem which makes SOl infeasible is the tremendous ex­pense incurred in developing SOl weapons systems. A decision to develop SOl would cause the United States to "achieve a first-strike against our own economy, not against the Soviet Union," Voelker said. 
Voelker's second argument against SOl was the fact it would up-
see SPACE, page 3 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI 
StaffReporter 
Because it is important for a uni­versity to have a strong graduate program to be nationally well­regarded, Notre Dame has a "total commitment" to graduate studies, said University President Father Theodore Hesburgh. 
"One ofthe University's greatest challenges of the 1980s may well be improvement of the quality of its doctoral programs," said the Priorities and Commitments for Excellence Report. 
The P.A.C.E. repon also cites a "dramatic nalional decline in the interest in doctoral studies," caused by "a reduction in the num­ber of jobs for persons with doc­torates." 
According to the report, the fields of engineering and business offer "an enormous demand" for persons with bachelors' degrees. 

To combat the declining inter­est in graduate degrees, the report recommends the University "suspend programs of marginal quality," while reinforcing those which are strong. 
It also says risks should be taken in staning new programs of "high potential". 
The repon failed, however, to indicate which programs it thought weak or strong, or which should be added. 
A partial response to the report has been the University's new masters' programs in architecture and biotechnology which will start this fall. 
A recent multi-million dollar grant made the architecture pro­gram possible while the biotech­nology program was recently approved by the University Graduate Council after previous rejection. 
Robert Gordon, vice president for advanced studies and chairman of the Graduate Council, said "a version of the biotechnology pro­gram was put before the council in 1983. The University wasn't ready for that." Gordon said that because the degree proposed in 1983 was independent of any particular de­panment, it was not approved. 
In its present form, the master's ofbiotechnology will be in the de­panment ofcivil engineering. 
In addition, Gordon said an in­terdisciplinary master's degree in the humanities is being consid­ered. The program, since it would be cross-disciplinary, would not be difficult to establish. 
"The University would not have 
to hire faculty for it," said Gordon, 
"I'm 100 percent behind it." 
However, no formal proposal for 
the program has been made yet to 
the Graduate Council. 
About the University's long­
range plans for graduate studies, 
Hesburgh said, "There has always 
been talk" about expanding 
graduate programs. 
He said graduate programs for 
the Law School and science depart­
ments have been considered. 
No formal timetable has beenset 
up for the establishment of these 
programs. These things are "done 
as the ideas are thought up," said 
Gordon. 
Currently, the University is 
"busy strengthening the 20 Ph.D. 
and 30 masters' programs we . already have." Cost could be a problem in es­tablishing some programs. Hes-
burgh said the reason Notre Dame does not have a medical school is that the S250 million beginning costs for faculty and facilities would "wipe out the University's endowment." "Operation costs" would also be very high said Hes­burgh. 
In fact, he slid, because of ter­ribly high costs, "The days of private medical school could be over." 
Both Hesburgh and Gordon said they feel the improvement of graduate programs at Notre Dame should not come at the expense of undergraduate programs. 
Gordon said this happens at many colleges, but "we won't let that happen. We will keep our eyes on it." 
Gordon hopes to do this with "faculty who can teach at both levels." 
The Observer Wednesday, March 6, 1985-page 2 

In Brief 
Saint Mary's SPW built upon love 


President and Mrs. Reagan celebrated their 
33rd wedding anniversary Monday with a private lunch in the Oval Office. Jennefer Hirshberg, Mrs. Reagan's press secretary, said the red Ford pickup truck the Reagans gave each other for Christmas would serve as an anniversary present as well. They did exchange anniversary cards, the spokeswoman said. Hirshberg said a table was set in front of the fireplace in the president's office for "just the two ofthem," and the Reagans had lunch together before Reagan left the White House to address the National Association ofCounties. -AP 
A semester of complaints has not moved the 
University of Montevallo housing director. The UM housekeeping staff ceased supplying toilet tissue to students living in rooms with private baths this fall and has no plans to resume the supply. The student government is now selling tissue for 25 cents a roll. -The Obseroer 
Doctors accidentally injected a toxic 
preservative Into the spine ofa 64-year-old retiree, leaving him com­atose with little hope ofrecovery in what the head surgeon called "a tragic series of human errors." The substance, glutaraldehyde, was mistaken for spinal fluid that had been removed earlier from the patient during an operation to remove a facial cancer, according to the surgeon, Dr. James Chandler of Miami. The patient, Bob East, underwent the operation last Friday and his brain was found dead on Monday. East, a photographer who retired earlier this year after more than 30 years with The Miami Herald, was listed in very guarded condition at jackson Memorial Hospital. -AP 
Of Interest 
Senior Formal bid sales continue this week 1n LaFortune and LeMans today through Sunday. Seniors can reserve rooms of triples or quads, reserve tables for five couples and order flowers. Sunday is the absolute last day for all sales and reservations. -Tbe Obseroer 
A Brazilian lunch will be served at the Center for Social Concerns tomorrow from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. The "Carnival Lunch a Ia Brazil" will include Brazilian dishes, hot bread, salad, dessert, coffee and tea. It will be prepared and served by a group of Brazilian Notre Dame students, faculty members and families. The cost of the lunch is S3. Proceeds will be donated to a variety of non-profit organizations in the South Bend community. -
Tbe Obsen1er 

American Enterprise Institute specialist in 
constitutional and legal studies, Walter Berus, will give a lecture entitled "How Does the Constitution Secure Rights?" tomorrow at noon In Room 11 5 of the Notre Dame Law School. Berus' lecture is sponsored by Notre Dame Law School's ThomasJ. White Center for Law and Government. -Tbe Obseroer 

Weather 

Sunny and warmer today 
with highs in the mid to upper 30s. Clear and not as cold tonight with lows in the upper 20s. Panly sunny and warmer tomorrow with highs in the upper 40s to lower 50s. -AP 


The <J6server_ 
'Ole Obaentt (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. 'Ole 0~Is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's CoUegw:. Subscriptions may be purchased for 130 per yeac ( 120 per se­mester) by writing The Obaentt, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 465~6. 
'Ole Obaentt is a member of The AMoclatcd Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Today's issu~ was produced by: 
Design Editor ............................. Paul Bruce Design Assistant ..................... Alex Pdtzer Layout Staff...................... Tracy Schindde Priscilla Karle Typesetters ................................. Vic Guarino T~d Dore 
News Editor............................ Tess Guarino Copy Editor ....................................... Uz Flor Sports Copy Editor...... Eric Sch~uermann Viewpoint Copy Editor............ Mary Ellen Viewpoint Layout ................. Cacol Brown Features Copy Editor................... Ed Nolan Features Layout ................... Andi Schnuck NO Day Editor.............. <....1dy Rauckhorst SMC Day Editor............................. Ed Nolan Ad Design .................... Catherin~ Ramsden 
Fred Ndson Pbotographer .......................... l'aul Kramer 

The 14th of February may have been Valentine's Day, but just as much love was displayed at Saint Mary's during Sophomore Parents' Weekend. 
Pessimists have said, and with good reason, that the 
family is a dying institution, but the family, its bonds and 
its values, were very much alive last weekend at Saint 
Mary's. 

SPW itself was not even three full days, but what a 
time sophomores and their parents had. 
Under the leadership of Maureen Erny, the sop­homores began planning for the gala in September. During the next few months, Erny, along with Lisa Ul­rich, Beth Senior, Paula Mae Butz, Katie Brown, Karyn Ruesch, Margaret Gray, Faye Lucaitis, and Amy Nics spent many hours preparing for SPW. 
The weekend featured an open house, a talent show, a Mass, a sports festival, a display ofsophomore art work accompanied by a choir and brunch. The highlight of SPW came Saturday night as the sophomores, some ac­companied by dates, took 

Joe Murphy 

Assistant Viewpoint Editor 
how much we truly appreciate you." She concluded by telling the parents, "Although we are here at Saint Mary's, in our hearts we are always at home with you and we will be together wherever we go." 
The idea behind the weekend is as the sophomore class officers wrote in the official program for the par­ents, "We want you to become acquainted with a very special and important part of our lives, a part that we have come to love and respect: Saint Mary's College." 
It was, in short, a weekend built upon a lifetime of 
love, of sacrifice, of respect 

their parents to dine and and ofcommitment. It was a dance at Century Center. 
weekend of the family, for As the Saturday evening 
the family. sun set, Saint Mary's sop­People today are so busy
homores rose to take their leading their lives they have 
place in the light. They little time to reflect uponsnapped thousands of precious things. SPW gives
pictures, twirled on the sophomores and their par­
dance floor with their fat­
ents a moment to remember 
hers, and boogied with their the togetherness of the past
dates. It was their night and and hope for the promise of 
they wanted to shine. 
the future. 

With the morning rays, SPW came to a close and the Our world frowns upon realities of South Bend displays of emotion and replaced the weekend won-• sentiment; and although I derland. The smell of et­am not a sentimentalist, hanol has returned to the 
moments like SPW come so campus, but the aroma of rarely that one cannot 
roses still fills many spohomore rooms. 
It is not enough to merely record the events which took place, although the sophomores spent much time organizing the weekend. What happened is not as im­portant as why it happened. 
So often, when one sees something special happen­ing, words seem so imadequate. How can one summarize the bond which exists within a family? The meaning ofthis oneness can best be expressed not with words, but with living pictures. 
During SPW, everyone saw this closeness in the ex­change ofhugs and kisses, the opening ofcare packages, the parking lot full of cars with out of state license plates, the young ladies sporting new dresses, the clean dorm rooms, and above all the presence of moms and dads on campus. 
Before Saturady's dinner, Erny gave a short speech in which she said, "Our main concern here tonight is not to discuss our future goals, but to tell you, our parents, 
Pl'ol........Typla• '8 8ECIIETAIIIAL SERVICE 
-Multi)* Letters -R-ma 

'"'MO'fchof Dimes
-[)iuerglloM -Term P~ -Same Day Service Av•llable 

~ -lllllliiBIRTH DEFECTS FOUNDATIONI-­UN 

~·················~·······~······..················•
~ GOING TO FT. LAUDERDALE OVER SPRING BREAK? t 
iC iC 
iC All students and alumni from Notre Dame and St. Mary's are invited iC : to attend the Notre DameAlumni Club of Ft. Lauderdale picnic and party : iC after the St. Patrick's Day Parade, Sunday, March 17, 1985. The city-•­: wide parade starts at noon and the party starts at 2:00PM and goes until ? . t 
iC iC 
iC iC 
iC iC 
: You are all invited to walk in the parade with the Alumni Clubs of : : St. Mary's and Notre Dame and then join the party poolside, at ~ iC the Riverside Hotel. iC 
•• •iC t REFRESHMENTS AND FOOD -SPECIAL PRICES FOR STUDENTS : 
t ~ ~ AFTER THE PARADE -JOIN THE PARTY ! iC AFTER THE BEACH -JOIN THE PARTY ~ : AFTER THE SUN GOES DOWN -JOIN THE PARTY : 
t : t SPONSORED BY THE NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY'S ALUMNI t t CLUBS OF FT. LAUDERDALE t
i 
(Additional information and directions etc, will be available at the Alumni iC iC Association Hospitality Van parked next to the Yankee Sheraton iC : Trader Hotel.) : 



~·······················..·························..· 

helped being touched by the show of such genuine affec­tion between children and parents. The message stated so powerfully at SPW is not lim­ited to Saint Mary's, but can be heard by all. 
It is a message founded upon family love which brought us into life, which brings us to this place, and which will carry us forth. 
The Observer publishes its official opinion in the form of an unsigned, large-print, wide­column article in the Viewpoint section. These columns represent the opinion of a majority of The Observer editorial board. All other columns, on the Viewpoint page or otherwise, are the views of their authors and do not necessarily reflect the views ofthe edi­torial board or the staffofThe Observer. 
Wednesday, March 6, 1985 -page 3 
Healy and Lawrence plan strategy and policies for next administration 

By TERRY BLAND  future policies. He added they have  
SeniorStaffReporter  also met with Father William Beauc­ 
hamp,  executive  assistant  to  the  
While  many  students  are  busy  president and executive vice presi­ 
planning  trips  to  Florida  during  dent, and Father David Tyson, vice  
spring break, Bill Healy and Duane  president for student affairs, as well  
Lawrence  are  planning a  different  as other campus leaders.  
trip: the student government offices  One problem the incoming ad­ 
on the second floor of LaFortune.  ministration  faces,  according  to  
Healy and Lawrence will take over  Lawrence,  vice  president-elect,  is  
the student body presidency and  what direction to take student gov­ 
vice presidency from Rob Bertino  ernment. "There is a lot of restruc­ 
and Cathy David on April 1.  turing going on,"  said  Lawrence.  
Healy and Lawrence  are  having  '.'We're meeting with Cathy and Rob  
meetings  now  with  Bertino  and  and finding out what the job entails,  
David in an effort to ease the transi­ what the feelings are about student  
APPhoto  tion from one administration to an­ government, and what direction we  
This street in San Antonio nearSantiago de Chile was completely  other.  want to go in."  
destroyed after a massive earthquake shook central Chile Sunday  Healy said the four meet weekly,  Lawrence, currently St. Edward's  
nif(ht.  usually on Friday, to discuss past and  hall president, said he could not run  


Hall presidents offer feedback on restructuring 
BySCOTI BEARBY 
StaffReporter 
Hall presidents overall gave posi­tive feedback to the Committee to Evaluate Student Government's latest plan to restructure the Notre Dame student government system at last night's Hall Presidents' Council meeting. 
The CREST plan, unveiled and dis­cussed at Monday night's Student Senate meeting, calls for individual hall senators to serve as a legislative body under the student body presi­dent's administration. 
Each elected representative, plus four presidential appointees, would serve on one offour proposed stand­ing committees. 
In addition to these changes, cur­rent Student Activities Board responsibilities would go directly to the new student government stand­ing committees. Lee Broussard, newly-approved student activities board manager, would move into the position ofa presidential cabinet member and serve on the finance/budget committee. 
Broussard, who opposed the streamlining of the SAB directly into the proposed legislative body at Monday's senate meeting, also voiced his opinion at the HPC meeting: the current SAB relation­ship with student government is fine. 
HPC members generally do not share Broussard's opinion, saying the change could actually improve publicity, event scheduling and fin­ancial accountability. 
The HPC consensus supported 
LONG ISLAND FOR SPRING BREAK 
The L.I. Club bus still has room! 
Departs 6:15 Friday March 15 Stops in Hempstead &Islip Road trip only$73.00 Call Pete 2453 or Kathleen 2905 for full details. GO LONG ISLANDI 



Greyhound
givesyouabreak 
onSpringBreak. II. 

Round trip. Anywhere Greyhound goes. 
Thb ~inJ..: hreak. if ynu and your frit-mharl' from the dall' nf purchase. thinkingahlllllht-ac.lingllllht·s~~.lht·hl-arh«H' just htlfllt.•ltlf avisit, ( i~yhclllnd can tal«.• )'l 1u lht>n~. 
~:r~~~~;~~~~~~~~ $~f: ~~~~~.'(It_ Iany-hlftlnly$!~1tlr It~.... n10nd trip. fllfiTltJrt•infiKlT1<llitm,call: Ju....t~JW ~your culft>~e sludl·nt f.(). G.Jrd GREYHOUND BUS TERMINAL .....tll'n}'IMJ porrha"l')'IIUT( •rt•yhciUnd lil'kt>t. YtllJr 
!MICKIANA REGIONAl AIRPORn 
tk:kctwilllht:nht-~xltlftlflr<Nl'lftlf 15~ 

GOGREYHOUND
~--------~-----------
Arxlleavethedrivingtous. 
the proposal's changes in class offi­cers' roles in student government, not allowing class officers to have a vote in the legislative body. Lyons Hall president and Student Senate representative Joanie Cahill said the problem is that the student body would be represented twice if class presidents were allowed to vote. 
Discussion continued on the role the Campus Life Committee would play in the restructured student gov­ernment. The CREST committee's complete streamlining of student government calls to question the role ofthe CLC, even speculatingifit should continue to exist at all. To eliminate the committee, approval by the CLC and the Board of Trus­tees would be needed. Currently, CREST hopes the CLC would be more ofan advisory board instead of a committee approving student gov­ernment business. 
Ultimately, the HPC said they thought the Campus Life Committee should exist in some form. Gretchen Froehlke, Walsh president, said stu­dent government "needs to increase contact with the administration, not lessen it." 
The CREST committee will meet again tomorrow to discuss HPC and senate reaction to the restructuring proposal. The commitee's original hope was for the plan to take effect when· the new administration takes over on April 1. However, Vice President-Elect Duane Lawrence and HPC Chairman Chris Tayback both say they feel this is unrealistic. 
In other business, updated plans for the HPC charity rafile to benefit Multiple Sclerosis include tickets sales the week immediately after spring break for S 1. Grand prizes are 12 trips for two to a Chicago Cubs' baseball game on April 13. Dinner and minimal spending money will also be a part of the package. HPC plans to sponsor a dance for all rafile ticket buyers the weekend following the ticket sales. 
The HPC-sponsored Blow-off for a While Club moves to Lewis Hall tonight with refreshments and en­tertainment. The council says they encourage all students to attend. 
again for that office. "I definitely have enough to do for student body vice president." 
One change Healy wants to in­itiate is to give the vice president a more active role in government. "Duane is just as competent in the job as I am," said Healy. "We're going to try to combine what we know together." 
Bertino and David are still 
working everyday with student gov­
ernment to accomplish as much as 
possible before their term ends. "We 
don't intend on slowing down to 
March 31 ,"said Bertino. The present 
administration still has much to ac­
complish, he added. 
After Bertino is done helping the new administration through the transition, he would like to leave stu­dent government behind and "pick up a little" on his social life. 
Healy, a transfer student from Northern Illinois University, is "still kind ofin awe" after his election vic­tory. "To end up student body presi­dent is exciting," Healy said. "You have to live up to people's expecta­tions." 
Healy and Lawrence are currently in the process of putting together their cabinet. Healy said they hope for a big response to ads they put in The Observer for student govern­ment positions. 
Recently Healy and Lawrence sponsored a victory party and raised more than $300 towards the Mil­lions for MS campaign. Healy is also planning a billiards match between himself and Bertino with the proceeds going to the MS drive. 
Student social life is another issue Healy and Lawrence will address. "There have been a lot of promises about social life and we're going to work with that," Healy said. He added his main concern is to get the government cabinet in order. "We can't be effective unless we can function properly," said Healy. 
Space 
continuedfrompage 1 
set the strategic balance between the superpowers. 
Leni Thomsen, president of the Denmark Schiller Institute, an or­ganization dedicated to the preservation of the Western al­liance, spoke in favor of SDI. "The Soviet Union", Thomsen said, "is currently building up the biggest war machine ever." Thomsen also said the Soviet Union is currently financing the peace movement in western Europe and terrorists are trying to destroy the Western al­liance. For these reasons, Thomsen said, NATO countries must continue to design new nuclear weapons. 
Thomsen equated the develop­ment ofSDI with a massive commit· ment to end hunger and injustice in the world. "SDI goes hand in hand with a massive development of the developing sector. There are numerous fields in biology and agriculture that will be opened up through SDI research." 
When a member of the audience asked Thomsen to address the issue of the technological feasibility of SDI, Thomsen replied, "There were those who did not believe in the steam ~ngine. Man has a creative mind and through his creative po­tential and functioning in the world he can go out and conquer the earth." 
Voelker ended the debate by saying, "We must freeze the arms race right now. The greatest threat to peace is that the technologies we have developed are the technolo­gies of war. Will history record that we turned from this crazy path in time , or will there be no historians to record our decision?" 

The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following positions: 
Circulation Manager Ad Design Manager 
Questions about these positions should be directed to Sarah Hamilton. Personal statements and resumes are due Monday, March 11 at 5 p.m. 


The Observer 

Former CIA Station chief attacks bureau's policies practiced overseas 
By TIMOTHY GIANOITI most elaborate U.S. preparation for him responsible for the renewed SentorStaffReporter conflict in history. strength ofthe CIA in the world. Stockwell said the only reason the "He (Reagan) has a glorious view 
Hurling attacks at CIA corruption United States has not invaded of things that isn't real," Stockwell and U.S. covert involvement in the already is because of lack of public said. He also accused the president Third World, John Stockwell -a preparation. Stockwell encouraged of having a "defective mind" and a former CIA station chief and Na­the audience to hold out. frightening "fixation on Armaged­tional Security Council member · don." charged a near-capacity crowd in Within our own borders, he said, He mentioned the president's the Ubrary Auditorium last night to the situation is getting worse. close relationship with Rev. Jerry do something to stop the killing. Several recently cleared acts oflegis­Falwell, and stressed Falwell's em­
"Our CIA is methodically des­lation have given the government phasis on "the rapture" that will al­tabilizing 50 countries in the world power to censor literature and legedly take place at the end oftime. right now," he said, adding this restrict publication on works writ­amounts to approximately one-third ten about itself to preserve national "The scary thing is that President of the world's countries. security. Reagan can make it happen," he said. 
According to Stockwell, the world In fact, Stockwell said, he had to "He is sitting there with the power is eroding by the second and the CIA secretly publish his own book, and to end life." is a crucial cause. when it came out in print all over the "Our planet is terminally ill," he 
"You are dealing with a gross country, the CIA immediately sued said, explaining the disease is nu­number of people killed as a direct him. All profits now go directly to clear arms. "I am not likely to die of result ofCIA covert actions," he said. the CIA. old <>:ge, and it is very unlikely that The numbers he gave were in the He also said it is now illegal for a you will die ofold age." 
citizen to reveal a Secret Service "I urge you to read on," he said, "I agent, and the freedom of agents in urge you to find out the truth. You America, for all practical reasons, can do something about it, but you unlimited. need to do it every day ofyour life." 
Stockwell also launched attacks "It is a today problem, and you've against President Reagan, holding got to start tomorrow," he said. 
Attention Pre-Law Students 
(This means YOU!) 
The Pre-Law Soelety proudly presents: "TheLaw Sehool E*perienee" 
(A movie on law student perspectives before, during and after law school) 
WHERE: CCE Basement WHEN: 7 p.m., Thurs., March 7 PRICE: FREE 
a.thereorsuffer the conse4uencesff 

6 ~!;~~~~(0e\ SPRING BREAK
w 

ISNEARI! This year tan, don't burn; prepare your skin at 
J.M.S. Plaza

1RN-HAWA1&N 
4609 Grope Rood sun tonn1ng solon Mishawaka, IN277-7026 

e 
Can't go to Florida? Get a tan anyway in our booth, beds, or both 


Wednesday, March 6, 1985-page 4 
The Observer; Paul Kramt:r 

john Stockwell, fonnerly with the National Securi~y Council of the CIA, speaks to large crowd at the LibraryAuditorium last night on "The Silent Wars of the CIA." Stockwell spoke on past career experiences in the CIA. His lecture was sponsored bJ tbe .\ludent ActivitiesBoard. Story at left. 
millions. 

"This Is no exaggeration," he assured the crowd, "and our govern· ment lies about it." 
Also a former case officer for the CIA in Vietnam, Stockwell drew upon his experience in Indonesia to strengthen his argument. He told stories of genocide and torture as well as manipulation of American press and people. He also accused the American government, espe­cially CIA officials, of distorting the truth for their own convenience. 
"The CIA is not an intelligence or­ganization," he said. "It is an active army which gets satisfaction from covert actions." 
His recently published book, "In Search Of Enemies," draws from his years ofCIA action In Angola, where he was chief of station. The story of covert African activities is no differ­ent from that of Indonesia, he said, or Guatemala, Chile, Congo, Uganda, Iran, El Salvador, Nicaragua and countless others. 
"You can read my book," Stock­well said. "It reads like a blueprint. Just change the names." 
The techniques employed by the
I 
r 
CIA "action army," he said, boil down to "raw terrorism." The CIA r' attacks people of a country, tortur­ing its people, killing its teachers,
' 
r 
t 
farmers, intellectuals and commu­nity leaders, according to Stockwell. 
He told stories of Contra/CIA ~ tortures, gang rapes, castrations, ex­ecutions, and other unmentioned 
r 
r 
"terrors" currently going on in r Nicaragua. "And this is nothing r new," he said, this kind of activity is r historically consistent for the CIA. r 
r 
"They psychologically scar the people," he said, "and these scars are permanent." 
The CIA is doing this all over the world, and the United States is no ex­ception, Stockwell continued. 
"These people don't come home and forget these techniques;" he said, "they use them." 
He cited experiments in medical schools, indoctrination on univer­sity campuses, a test virus culture dumped inlO the San Francisco Bay, whooping cough on Long Island, paid journalists in the New York Times and other national publica­tions, vertigo lights planted in city subways, censored and distorted historical documents, and countless other examples. 
"You can read my book for the details on how this is done," he said. "It is a perversion ofdemocracy." 
r 
"We are taught to hate, to fear, and to accept war as a necessary part of life from the time since we were two and sitting in front of the one-eyed babysitter," he said. He calls this in­doctrination "paranoia politics." 
He explained the government prepares its people for war and said it is going on right now in a cam­paign to invade Nicaragua. 
"Now for four years, we've been preparing for the invasion of Nicaragua," he said, adding it is the 


ENGINEERING STUDENTS: 
cash in on your hard work before graduation and open the door to a top career in Engineering Management. 
For highly qualified students in Engineenng, Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics or hard sciences, the Navy offers the opportunity to earn over $1000 per month dur­
ing your final year in college. For especially qualified persons, this benefit may be avail.ablr for the final two years of collqr. 
After graduation, you will receive gr01duo~te level tr•ining valued at $30,000 •nd 
begin work as a technical manager with immediate re-spons•bility and authority. This is the only program of its kind in the world. 
To qualify you must be between the ages of nineteen and twenty-six, be m good health and meet stringent licademic requirements. (Minimum educational re­quirements include at least one year of Calculus and one year of Calculus-based Physics.) You must also have at least a 2.8 G.P.A. overall with a 3.0 in major. 
A NAVY ENGINEERING PROGRAM SPECIALIST will be on campus 
TO!lAY A~D TOMORROW 
Sign up for an interview with your placement office today, or call 1-800-382-9404 for more information. 
NAVY ENGINEERING ... IT PAYS TO BE THE BEST. 
*********************************** 
* •* 



$ We Want You! $ 
:* * ~ 
: Applications : 
: for Bill Healy & Duane Lawrence's : : 1985 -86 Cabinet :! are now available : :* 2nd Floor LaFortune :* 
* * 
~ ;
* Executive Coordinator• ~ : Cabinet Member• : : Tran•fer Orientation Committee : : Frosh Drientatian Committee : 
* *
* * 
~ MAKE A DIFFERENCE ~ * IN * 
* * 


:STUDENT GOVERNMENT : 
: a 
: RPPLICRTIDNS DUE : : March a. 1!185 : 
* * 
~ : 
*********************************** 



The Observer 


Andrija Artukovic is wheeled outside. of Long Beach Naval Hospital in Long Beach last Friday. Artukovic, accused ofhelping the Nazis carry out war crimes as the "Butcher ofthe Balkans" was ordered extradited to Yugoslavia Monday by a U.S. magistrate who specified that be be tried onlyfor murder. 
Deaver buys at a discount 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -A White House spokesman confirmed yesterday that top presidential aide Michael Deaver used his diplomatic passport to purchase a luxury car at a substan­tial discount while on assignment in West Germany. 
Spokesman Larry Speakes said the discount received by Deaver on a BMW "appears to be a common practice" among those who present diplomatic passports to the Munich­based car manufacturer. 

Immerse Yourself 
Spend a semester or a year in Latin America: 
• 
Become fluent in Spanish. 


• 
Participate in University courses, internships, or independent research. 

• 
Learn Latin American culture and history face-to-face. 

• 
Study in Peru ( Lima!Cuzco) or Colombia (Bogota!Medellin ). 

• 
Receive full Academic credit from the University of Miami. 

• 
Use your existing Financial Aid. 




Applications and infonnation from: 
North/South Academic 
Exchantce Program 
lJniversity of Miami 
PO. Box 248123 
Coral Gables, Florida 33124 
A GLOBAL UNIVERSITY (30';) 284-4303 
Deaver, deputy chiefofstaff, has a diplomatic passport because of his high rank in the White House staff, Speakes said. 
Newsweek magazine reported earlier this week that Deaver and members of an advance team in Europe working out the itinerary for President Reagan's trip there in May, arranged to purchase nine BMWs while in Munich. 
Speakes confirmed that Deaver purchased one car, but said he could not confirm how many others in the group also did so. 
........~.__,...,.....,........~~-------------~~-­
Wednesday, March 6, 1985-page 5 





Bush tours drought-stricken Africa 
Associated Press 
KHARTOUM, Sudan -Vice Presi­dent George Bush began an African tour on Monday that he and other 
U.S. officials said aims to help the continent deal with its devastating drought and prevent similar catastrophes. 
Aboard the plane with Bush en route to Sudan, State Department of­ficial Chester Crocker said, "We will be engaging in intense dialogue based on vital need to get Africa back on its feet again." Crocker is as­sistant secretary of state for African affairs. 
Bush and his party also will visit Mali and Niger, and the vice presi­dent will report his findings at a 

Reagan talks with Italian minister, wins support for 'Star Wars' plan 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON President 
Reagan won a qualified vote of sup­
port but not a ringing endorsement 
for his "Star Wars" space-based 
defense plan during talks yesterday 
with Italian Prime Minister Bettino 
Craxi. 
The president, praising Italy as "an ally second to none," said he and Craxi did agree on the "potential benefits" of the proposal and the need for NATO solidarity in light of arms negotiations beginning in Geneva next week. 
The Italian leader called the talks "fruitful" and said they convinced him that "the basic goals of United States policy remain defense and peace basedon a balance offorces." 
Craxi added that Reagan "has 
PHILLY CLUB 
Spring Break Bus Signups 
Wed: 9:30pm LaFortune 
JOIN THE 
Kollman Generation 
Tomorrow is the last day that Student Body Commissioner applications wiD be available at Haggar CoUege Center. 
Sign up for an interview 
United Nations conference on the African famine March I I in Geneva, Switzerland. He has said he will ask other nations to combine forces to match the 3.2 million tons of food aid the Reagan administration has proposed for African reliefthis year. 
"I come to Africa as a pilgrim, on a journey of mercy and friendship," Bush said at the Khartoum airport after the flight from Washington. 
In addition to fighting famine, Sudan's government is battling rebels in the south. The· rebels, mostly Christian or animist, oppose the government's imposition of Is­lamic law and resent what they say is the economic domination of the predominantly Moslem north at the expense ofthe south. 
assured me that these same goals will be pursued" through the presi­dent's Strategic Defense Initiative ­the formal name for the Star Wars plan. 
He added that the two countries "will draw mutual advantages in the scientific and technological field" from research into the futuristic defense, but he sidestepped offering a full-fledged endorsement of the plan. 
U.S. officials were anxious to allay any worries Craxi might have had about such a defense system. It is not an allied project, and some NATO leaders have expressed concern that it would cause America to shift its focus from defense of European na­tions. 
One official familiar with the talks said that while the prime minister's 
Bush met yesterday with Presi­dent Gaafar Mohamed Nimeiri,. who announced Sunday that government troops were halting "offensive at­tacks" against the rebels. He said he would attempt to arrange peace negotiations with the insurgents during the "unilateral cease-fire." 
Crocker said of Nimeiri's offer, "It takes two sides to reconcile, and it is not at all clear what the prospects are." 
The Reagan administration, in ad­dition to seeking emergency funds to feed an estimated 20 million people facing starvation in Africa, has announced it will press African countries to move toward a more market-oriented farm policy. 
remarks didn't consitute a "ringing endorsement" of Star Wars, he lent more support than administration officials had expected he would. 
The two leaders delivered their parting statements while squinting into a strong sun beating down upon the South Lawn ceremony. They ex­changed comments of high praise for each other and lauded the strong bilateral ties between their nations. 
The two leaders said they reviewed East-West relations, the 
U.S. approach for the upcoming Geneva talks, the Mideast, interna­tional terrorism and the interna­tional economic situation. Reagan praised the Italians, offering them "accolades" for their courage in bat­tling terrorism, and thanked them for acting to prevent a bomb attack on the U.S. Embassy in Rome. 
, 

Indiana plans 
, ~ 


ban on happy hour prices 
INDIANAPOLIS -A house-passed bill to ban "happy hour" drink dis· counts is on its way to the Senate with no real organized opposition from tavern owners. 
House Bill II80, which cleared the House 55-40 late Monday, 
would ban the sale of two drinks for the price ofone and drink discounts 
,

offered during a certain time ofday. ,
, 

Rep. Eric Turner, R-Gas City, who , introduced the bill, said that taverns , and restaurants would be able to 
, 

feature reduced-price drinks pro­
vided the discounts were available all day long. 
Sen. James Butcher, R-Kokomo, who will carry the bill in the Senate, said he has not gotten a sense ofhow his colleagues feel about the pro-· posal. 
"I think ifit can be shown that the cessation of this kind of activity will reduc¢ drinking drivers and the resultant consequences of drinking drivers, then the bill should be suc­cessful," he said. 
"I have been pleasantly surprised by the ease with which the drunken driving legislation has passed the Legislature in recent years," the senator added. 
Butcher said he was not aware of any organized opposition to the bill, 
which drew no debate on the House floor. 
"The tavern owners have no ob­jection as long as it is uniform," he said. 
Ralph VanNatta, a lobbyist for the Indiana Licensed Beverage Associa­tion, Inc., a group of I,OOO tavern and restaurant owners, said he will be monitoring the bill in the Senate "in case something squirrelly comes out." 
~------------------------------~~~~~------------~--~-----------------------------­







View~0 int 
Wednesday, March 6, 1985-page 6 

What exactly makes Indiana's toll roads tick? 
Part of my Midwestern education has been card to pay for gas. Admittedly, when crossing · ing was the dollar that Chicago demanded for that it would not be paid off until the year the exposure to the somewhat esoteric idea of the Golden Gate Bridge there is a fee, but in driving its Skyway. I think the Skyway is even 201 5. I derive a small degree of satisfaction toll roads. Being from California, I have not that case one is paying more for the scenery more of a ripoff than the Toll Road since its from the knowledge that a generation of had much experience with the idea of paying than the road. A payment that I find well asphalt looks like San Francisco did after the future Domers will be able to enjoy the fun to drive on a road. California probably has worth the view. 1906 earthquake and the scenery is ofsome of and expense of the Toll Road. more miles of highways than any other state, In the wonderful state of Indiana it is a far the worst slums in Chicago. Why signs say Another interesting note I discovered 
different story. During the past two weeks I 'Travel the beautiful Skyway,' I will never un­about the Toll Road is that is employs 41 5 have spent a significant portion of my life on derstand. people to service I57 miles of road. That itMark Boennighausen the Indiana State Toll Road shuttling people Intrigued by the idea of what makes a toll produces that many jobs for economically de­from South Bend to O'Hare and back. After road tick, I called the administrative offices of pressed Northern Indiana makes paying the traveling this route a couple of times I started the Indiana State Toll Road. I was promptly toll a little less painful, but it makes me
gravity is a myth 
to wonder why I was paying $2.20 each time I told the public relations man was out and that wonder about its efficiency. That number of got off. I would have to call back. California may have jobs suggests the Toll Road will never die, as it 
I 
but I have yet, in my extensive travel of the As I reflected on my journeys, I decided that some weird things, but it does not have press keeps itself alive by always managing to need state, to encounter any toll roads. the road was not in much better shape than secretaries for its roads. more revenue for improvements and increas· 
This may be due to what highways are the other roads in Indiana, all of which are When I finally talked to the public relations ing salaries. called in the land of fruits, nuts, and ben:ies. free. In fact, when one gets near Gary the man and asked him what my 52.20 went for, My only salvation is that as I leave Indiana Instead of highway, Californians usually say potholes become life-threatening. A few look he said upkeep and improvements. He also in­and go back to California I will leave the in· freeway. Now the key part of the latter term is ,like moon craters. Furthermore, the Indiana formed me that the original bond which had convenience and expense ofthe Toll Road be­the prefixfree. And indeed, when taking to the countryside is not exactly breathtaking and financed the road had been paid off on the first hind. I will be free once again to travel back road in California, a driver can leave the house definitely not worth the price of admission. of this year. I thought that meant tolls would and forth with my only worry being the price without a dime and head in any direction and Police officers also seem to prowl the Toll end quickly. But my new found toll-road ofgas. be sure that there will not be any tolls to pay. Road with a vengence. friend told me that a new bond had been Mark Boennigbausen is a government All one has to worry about is having a credit What made the journeys even more irritat-issued to finance 10 new interchanges and majorand a Viewpoint columnist. 

P.O.BoxQ 


Not wearing seat belts can save lives too  roads through accidents is ridiculous. Seat belts do not prevent accidents, they limit in­juries. In America we are supposed to be free. Do  they've admitted to that. But that is not my concern. What does concern me is the magni­tude ofhis criticism. That is why I think this whole thing needs to  Dolan does not receive the credit he deserves  
you want the politicians (who are so much  be put in the proper context. Browne and  
' smarter than the rest of us) to decide what  Cahill went into the race and wanted to win,  
Dear Editor:  you can or cannot do? If you allow them to  so they campaigned hard. I can't blame them  Dear Editor:  
Agood friend ofmine was involved in a very  assume authority to decide what you can and  for that. In fact, I admire them for their zeal.  Upon reading the Washington game  
bad auto accident in high school. His Travel­ cannot do, they would abuse it. Freedom of  Unfortunately they "got carried away," which  coverage in The Observer on Monday, our  
All went off the edge of a sixty-foot embank­ choice is something that must be protected. It  in turn caused them to overspend their al­ frustrations became real anger. We had to  
ment. Had he been wearing a seat belt, he  may seem humane to require the use of seat  lotted amount and commit other infractions.  question whether the writer of the article,  
would have been killed instantly since the  belts and save lives, but the United States was  . But Frank don't blow it out ofproportion ­it's  Larry Burke, had been in attendance at the  
roof was crushed down to the frame in the  built on the individual's freedom of choice.  not like they plotted to assassinate the other  ACC for the Irish victory or simply watched it  
first roll. His body, not held in place by a seat  Yes, even the freedom to be a fool and to not  candidates.  on television. One of the key players of the  
belt, was free to roll around as the passenger  wear a seat belt. My friend exercises his  Andreano also seems to have (rightly)  game, Jimmy Dolan, was only mentioned in  
compartment was crushed. He was in the  freedom ofchoice now and wears a seat belt.  thrown their integrity into question. But let's  passing, and was embarrassed by a picture of  
hospital for two months, but he was alive.  PeterS. Bowen  remember one thing. When a good football  his shot getting blocked. Didn't the photog­ 
Mark Potter advocates mandatory seat belt  Holy Cross Hall  player drops a well thrown pass many people  rapher take more than one picture during the  
laws because somehow, by not wearing a scat  boo, hiss and sometimes even say he should  course of the game?  
r r  belt, we are violating others' rights. His argu­ment is rather weak. If I choose, however Stl!pidly, to risk my  Carrying guns is going  be kicked offthe team. But does this mean that because he blew one play he shouldn't play again? Does it mean that he's not qualified for  The Observer game articles never fail to ignore the contribution of the unspectacular,  
r" '  own life by not wearing a seat belt, then that is my decision. It is a violation of my personal  too far and must cease  the job? Does it mean that because Browne and Cahill broke some elections rules that  yet consistently effective Junior tri-captain. His lack ofsuperior offensive skills, and excit­ 
~  freedom ofchoice for the government to step  they were not good candidates and could not  ing slam-dunks seem to be the only possible  
,.  in and force me to protect my own life. The government assumes a "we know better than  DearEditor: On Saturday I found it very humilitating to  do a lot ofgood for Notre Dame? And about the administration. I do not think  reason for his lack of mention in the paper. This is a paper that will champion the efforts  
~  you" authority when it does this, and this is a  see an Army ROTC troop walking the streets  it was the. case that they did "not have the guts  of a point-guard who shoots 6 of 16 from the  
dangerous authority to allow anyone or any  of our Catholic university with guns in hand.  to act against these cheaters." Any university  field, and a forward whose "pretty slams"  
F r  institution to assume. It is the starting point for the violation of many more rights of per­sonal choice. Potter seems to recognize this danger but  Is it not enough that we must put up with their obnoxious army chants and painted faces? Carl}'ing guns is going too far. I suggest that Army ROTC folk carry on their insulting exer­ that enacts something as controversial as the alcohol policy certainly isn't afraid to get tough with its students. I think one reason they didn't act was because it was out of their  cause the paper to overlook his numerous turnovers in the paint. After the fans came to their feet to cheer  
~  states that not wearing a seat belt violates the rights of others in at least two ways. First, it  cises out ofeveryone's sight. The bottom ofSt. Joseph's Lake would suit me just fine.  jurisdiction. OBUD had responsibility for the election and for enforcing the rules, and ac­ Dolan off the court in his sweat soaked jersey on Sunday, I felt that maybe the sports writer  
r r r  hikes up insurance costs. This argument has difficulties. The position of most state gover­ments is that seat belt laws are justifiable be­ Ifanyone feels the same way, write a note to Father Tyson, Vice President for Student Af­fairs, asking that he insist that this type ofexer­ cording to the Browne/Cahill violations they (at worst) should have becrn kicked out of the race not ou ofthe university.  would finally recognize his contribution ( 3 rebounds, 3 steals, 6 points, 1 blocked shot). I was obviously mistaken, as his great defensive  
cause they save lives. Dead people do not  cise cease on our campus.  effort was only given a breath, and his team  
raise anyone's medical insurance costs. Life in­ Fausto Nolasco  Most of all Browne and Cahill are not a dis­ leadership in the game was not mentioned.  
surance premiums merely are paid earlier.  Notre Dame student  grace to this university, no more than you or I.  Maybe The Observer sports writer should  
Potter's argument about violation of rights  They did something wrong, but haven't we all  look around the next time that David Rivers  
also could be extended easily, and not ridiculously, to other parts of our lives. Not  Giv:e Browne and Cahill  at some time or another? Ifyou don't believe me just look at the lines for Confession this  makes a jumper and see who set the pick, or watch down low to see who sets the screens  
brushing your teeth raises dental care costs. Higher dental care costs and bad breath are  a chance to begin again  time of year. The only difference between their mistakes and ours, was "that their  and boxes out. Even when he's not rebound­ing, he is usually a big reason why a Notre  
another violation ofc thers' rights. How about  mistakes were made public to the rest of the  Dame player Is able to get to it. His passing,  
fat people? Heart disease kills more people  Dear Editor:  school. Admittedly, they could have been  rebounding, pick setting, and court sense  
than auto accidents do. In the interest of  Frank Andreano is not the first to have cast a  more careful with their campaign, but I think  make him more of an all-around player than  
everyone else's rights to lower medical, den­ stone in the Browne/Cahill issue but he has  they have learned their lesson the hard way.  one might expect. Mark our words, come  
tal and life insurance costs, should we force  thrown the biggest one. Expulsion? Sounds a  Jesus didn't condemn the adultress so don't  tournament time, Digger will have Dolan in  
government monitored teeth brushings and  little extreme. I appreciate and agree with his  condemn Cahill and Browne. Give them a  the game during the keysituations, and he will  
diet plans? Need I mention the high cost  "high moral standards" for Notre Dame but  chance (as we all have been given a chance)  produce the big rebound, pass or score.  
smokers bring to the rest ofsociety?  can't help but feel he's lost perspective in the  to "begin again."  RobertRicci  
Potter's second argument about violating  "election scandal." I don't deny that  Daniel Groody  TedKommers  
the rights ofothers by blocking free access on  Browne/Cahill did break the campaign rules- Alumni Hall  Stanford Hall  

The Observer Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O_ Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
EdJtor·in-Chief. . . Bob Vonderheide Business Manager. . . Dave Taiclet Managing Editor .. . . . . . . Mark Worscheh Controller .. . . Dave Stephen itch 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the News Ed1tor . ... Sarah Hamilton Advertising Manager . . ... Anne Culligan University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Ed1tor . .... Dan McCullough Circulation Manager Jeff O'Neill reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as Samt Mary·s Editor . Anne Monastyrski Systems Manager . Mark B. Johnson accurately and as objectively as possible. Uns~-gned editorials represent the opinion Sports Ed1tor. Michael Sullivan Production Manager. .. Chris Bowler of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, let!ers and the Inside Column Viewpoint Editor .. . Dave Grote Project Manager . ... Amy Stephan present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the Features Editor. Mary Healy community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters. Photo Ed1tor. . Pete Laches Founded November 3, 1966 is encouraged. 
-----------~----------------------­




ccent 

March 6, 1985-page 7 

General behind the MS ca01paign 
'Homewood' -a heaping 
Karen McCloskey next year will be run during the fall 


helping of American pie 
semester. Neal is confident about
features staff writer 
the success of a fall campaign. She 
been very pleased by the keep costs at a minimum. Ninety to added, "During the fall we can tap way things have been going. nintey-five percent of what we raise into football season and center Residence halls have been very will be donated. The main cost is in around fall activities." responsive with planning and get­printing and publicity," added Neal. This spring campaign has "proved ting involved." In terms of campus participation, a good program. This time nothing 
So spoke joni Neal, director ofstu­Neal said "Administration and was finalized until late. We were dent activities, about the NO residence halls have been very in-playing catch-up. The committment Millions Against MS fundraiser, now 
here is great. It was organized "Homewood Trilogy" is less a novel than it is a flavorful and inti­in its fifth week. quickly with lots ofstudent support. 
mate travelogue, leading the reader down the back alleyways andNeal added that she was "very Now we know that it's (the next into the dank bars ofa Pittsburgh ghetto. Homewood, Pa., has beenpleased with the committee. The campaign) in the fall. We'll have the for decades home to that city's blacks and their rich culture.
students involved have put in many stuff in place and ready to go. We As a trilogy, it is constructed of three somewhat loosely con­hours" and "touched many different have lot oftime." 
nected works, each with its own internal force, but bound together areas from cookie sales to tug-of-Commenting on the success of by the thread ofa shared heritage -the heritage ofthe black commu­wars." the campaign so far, Neal said, nity. John EdgarWideman, "Homewood's" author, uses theNeal, the administrative adviser of "Anything we've done for MS would 
strnrture ofthe works like movements ofa symphony.
the NO Millions Against MS drive, is work for any fundraiser." She added "Damballah," the ftrst movement in the literary symphony, is a very happy with the success of the that this type ofdrive was an oppor­collection of semi-autonomous short stories which slowly begin tocampaign. She said, "It's really going tunity "to get away from pledging." 
introduce the reader tothe roots ofHomewood's legends. For exam­well for the first time through and "People are willing to pay S2. if ple, there isMr. French, a man whose fidelity to an ex-con friendwith a limited budget. We do not they get some entertainment in during troubled times earns him a chapter in the legend ofthe com­have a budget at all. We started at return rather than just turning over munity. There is also the story of an ice cream vendor whose dog,zero dollars." money," Neal said. "To us it's all the Daddy Garbage, earns his name by uncovering a dead body in aAccording to Neal, NO Millions is same. It's still a donation." 
garbage can. 
very fortunate to be able to use Uni­Neal pointed out that there is a Each of the stories is both strange and wondc:rful f111l of oldversity facilities rent-free. "It's very "whole different attitude" about this legends and ancient black supetstiions. The titl<> stor' "Damballah,"much appreciated," said Neal. campaign. There were "almost 2000 retells the tale of a black slave in the 19th century who brings aboutThe ACC arena, site ofthe Kick-off people at the Kick-off Party. The Ad­his doom by refusing to give up his belief in the only god he knows,party, normally costs Sl200 to rent. ministration was surprised," at the

Joni Neal DamballahWedo, "the ancient, the venerable father" of Haitian
Additionally, equipment was overwhelming turnout, Neal said. 
voodoo. By his faith, he defies both his white masters and his blacksupplied by Educational Media. The volved. That's why I'm real pleased." "People are hungry for something fellows, and he loses his head when the master finally loses his, rage­
Center for Continuing Education Involvunem has been good in fun to do. There's not one weekend fully decapitating the poor slave.
made facilities available for an early "every area except faculty," Neal that we don't have something The second movement in this symphony of heritage is "Theorganizational meeting. Neal added continued. "We haven't drawn real planned," Neal explained. Recalling Hiding Place." This selection explores the legends further, and in athat there were "little costs here and heavily on them._ If we run a cam­the Kick-off Party she added, more intuitive, almost surrealistic manner. The protagonist, who ap­there," that were donated. paign next year I'd like to find a way "Hopefully, alot of people will turn pears in a series of stories that have a distant, dreamlike action, is The campaign has "revolving to get them involved." around and come back. You can't Bess. Bess is an old woman who refuses to move away from thecredit at General Accounting," said Commenting on future cam­even go to a movie for S2. It's pretty house in which she was raised, and in which she raised her children.

Neal. ND Millions will "pay bills and paigns, Neal said that the campaign cheap entertainment." 
The reason for this is that Bess believes she can conjure up her dead relatives and have a good look at them, now that they don't confuseMSUpdate her by moving around so much. Brother Tate picks up the rhythm in the finale. The concluding novel, "Sent for You Yesterday." Fifteen years before, Brother Tate 
had a dream in which he was trapped in a speeding train. Everyone inside the train was completely petrified, but as soon as a person would scream, he would be gone -just gone. Nothing to it really, 



MS fund drive continues 
Brother Tate thinks, but it scared him so badly that he hasn't said a word since. Now he just_scat-sings. "Sent for You Yesterday" slowly, but without missing a beat brings the significance of the trilogy home. It is the telling of a culture. 


rocketing toward goal 
•Private Party-A private partyKaren McCloskey organized by Cathy David as an in­Homewood is where America happens. Homewood is where culture 
features staff writer augural celebration for Bill Healy is generated. Because the inhabitants of Homewood are limited in what they may expect from America, they must turn to the commu­
and Duane Lawrence raised S330. nity itself to provide them with not only a material livelihood, but all
These last fleeting days before THIS WEEKEND •SAB Movies-The SAB film series break hold some cheap entertain­grossed over SIOOO for the MS cam­
of the other things that give their lives meaning. Though Homewood will never h--n·· nf the great cities of the
ment and fun activity. If you can pull •Monte Carlo Night-The Sopho­paign. "Against All Odds", the final world, in "Homewood Trilogy·· Widema1• lm·;n~lv illustrates its
away from the midterms, papers and more andjunior classes will sponsor film in the series, was the most suc­dialect, indigenous architecture, ana· 'lt:genc~:·wideman illustrates
pre-break anxiety, check out the fol­a special Monte Carlo Night on cessful, netting $800. Homewood's culture, with such eloquence and heart that any reader
lowing NO Millions Against MS ac­Friday evening in South Dining Hall. •Direct Donations-Direct con­can realize that Homewood does have a greatness, a greatness not of
tivities. There will be a raffle for a trip to San tributions are always welcomed. a towering skyline but of the spirit and soul ofa community forging
Diego during Easter break. For more Checks should be made payable to an existence and a triumphant identity.
THIS WEEK information, watch for posters and NO Millions Against MS. Send all -personals. donations to Student Actfvities Of­
•Bike-a-thon-The University fice, LaFortune Student Center, 1st Food Service's Festival of Health NEXT WEEK Floor. continues and with it the inter-dorm •Ice Skating Party-For everyone bike-a-thon competition. Both the who won't be leaving town early, RAFFLE WINNERS festival and the bike-a-thon will con­there will be an ice skating party on tinue until March 13. •Rock­the ACC Rink on Thursday, March The names of winners of the Saint Alike Registration-The ihitial 14 from 7 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. Admis­Mary's Dinner Raffle will be posted meeting for all potential Rock-Aiikes sion will be S 1 and all proceeds go to in the information case next to the was held last evening. To participate the MS drive. For an addtional OBUD bar and the Student Activities in the contest, you must pick up a charge, skate rental is available. Office on the 1st floor of LaFortune. registration form in the Student Ac­tivities Office and return it to 238 SPRING BREAK TOTALS SO FAR 
Lewis by Tuesday, March 12. •Fort Lauderdale-Chuck Len­At this point in the fundraiser, the 
The Rock-Alike Contest will be non and the Alumni Association NO Millions Against MS campaign held on Wednesday, March 27 in have plans in the works for MS col­has deposited S8000.}oni Neal proj­North Dining Hall. The Contest lections to accompany Alumni Asso­ects Si 2,000 to S14,000 by the end begins at 9:30p.m. Tickets will be $3 ciation Vans in the sunny south. of the drive. Aline Gioffre hopes to and the price will include one vote raise that figure to $20,000. The goal card. The vote cards will be used to RESULTS AND DONATIONS ofthe NO campaign is to raise S2 per choose the winning performer. Bal­student. Right now, according to the lot box stuffing is encouraged and •FAC Phone-a-thon-The Notre Dame undergraduate enroll­additional vote cards will be Phone-a-thon held last Saturday by ment, more than Sl per student has available for Sl each. the Freshman Advisory Council been raised. 
Tickets will be on sale in the received S11 78 in pledges. Mem­Gioffre urges all groups and Dining Halls during dinner from bers ofthe FAC staffed telephones in dorms that are sponsoring activities March 25 through March 27. Tickets the Student Government Offices on to raise money for the MS campaign will also be available at the door. the second floor ofLaFortune. to deliver the money before spring 
•Lunch at Senior Bar-Friday •Saint Mary's-Celeste Alleva, break, ifpossible. from II a.m. to 2 p.m. lunch will be chairwoman ofthe Saint Mary's cam­The NO Millions Against MS served at Senior Bar. Proceeds will paign, presented Aline Gioffre with checks must be postmarked by April 
go to the MS drive. $1078 this week. The Dinner Raffle 1. Due to the time needed to process 
Ballons with special prizes will be raised S978 of the total. Holy Cross the funds through the General Ac­sold for Sl. Inside each balloon will Hall donated the additional S 100. counting Office, All donations must be a prize ticket. Prizes have been •Notre Dame Halls-Notre be received by March 29. Donations donated by campus businesses. The Dame's Holy Cross Hall, donated should be delivered to 238 Lewis minimum prize will be a mixed S200 to the MS drive. Grace Hall Hall or to the Student Activities Of­drink at Senior Bar worth S 1.25. contributed S47 to the effort. fice. 





----------r·-.----.-.---..-~-,....,~~~~ 


Wednesday, March 6, 1985 -page 8

Sports Briefs 
The ND/SMC Sailing Club will be meeting today at 6:30p.m. in room 204 O'Shaugnessy. All officers must at­tend to discuss future races and fundraising events. -The Observer 
The ND Water Polo Club wm be meeting for practice today from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. in the Rockne Memorial Build­ing. Anyone who is interested may attend this practice session. For more information, call Mike at 283-1471.-The Observer 

Top Twenty 
t GeOI'getown (60) 27·2 t200 2. St. Johns 25-2 tt27 3. MIChigan 23-3 t067 4 Oklahoma 25-5 989 5. Memph1sSt 24-3 937 6. NorthCar~ma 22·7 756 7 Duke 21·6 745 8 lOUISIBna Tech 25-2 732 9 Geotg1a Tech 2t·7 720 tO. Kansas 24·6 707 tt Nev.-Las Vegas 24·3 699 t2. Va, Commonweallh 25-5 472 13. Syracuse 2Q-7 397 t4 IllinOIS 22-8 337 t5. Tulsa 2t-6 282 t6. Loyola 22-5 266 17 Georg1a 2Q-7 254 t8. N. Carolina St. t9-8 236 t9. Lou1s1ana St t9-8 t5t 
20. So. Methodist 2t·8 t26 
"~T " 
near green, is the plea from the "Unknown Irish" pep club for the Notre Dame-Marquette men's basketball game tonight at 7 p.m. in the ACC. The game will be Notre Dame's final appearance at the ACC in the regular season. -The Observer 
An NVA roller-skating party will be held tomorrow from 8 p.m. to 10:30 p.m. at United Skates of America, 3909 North Main Street, Mishawaka. The cost is $1.95, which in­cludes skate rental. Bus transportation tickets may be purchased in advance at the NVA office for S.75 or for S I at·the bus. Busses will leave the library circle at 7:40 and 8:25 and the main circle at 7:45 and8:30. Return buses will leave USA at 10and 10:30.-The Observer 

The Obsen•er Notre Damt' offict'. locatt·d on tht• third noor of LaFortune Student Ct'nter, accepts classitkd advt'rtising from') a.m. until -1 p.m...\londay through Friday. The Obserr•er Saint Mary's office. l<>l'ated on tht' third Ooor of Haggar College Centt'r, acct'pts classitkds from 12:.~0 p.m. until .~p.m .. ~lon· day though Friday. Deadlint· li>r next-day classifieds is -~ p.m. All dassifit·ds must bt• prepaid, eitht'r in person or hy mail. Chargt· is I 0 cents pt·r fi\'l· t·harac·



Classifieds 
ters erda ·. 
NOTICES 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-81197 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
WORDPROCESSING AND TYPING 
272-8827 
WORDPROCESSING 277-6045 
TYPING Term papers, resumes. letters, manuscnpts. Reaonallle rates; Pickup & delivery on campu181 available Gall Mrs Schultz between 5-10 PM 277-5134. 
A tree application form that g1ves you acceaa lo more lhan 500,000 choice SUMMER JOBS •• yours by sending a stamped. self-addressed, return en­velope to: Student Employment Serv1ces 205 Wendell Avenue, Pittsfield, Mass. 01201 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-70011. 
CLEVELAND CLUB 
CLEVELAND CLUB 
CLEVELAND CLUB 
CLEVELAND CLUB 
The "Social Gathering" Is scheduled for 
lhis Sat .. March 9. 1985. It is at the same 
place O.C. as before. Any questions. 
please contact one ot lhe oHicers. You are 
encouraged lo come. Also. there is NO 
bus for Spnng Break 
Word Proceesing/Typing • also copying. Cell Andrea 283-3880 -9 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. 
TYPING Jacklallogga &84-8713 
LOST/FOUND 
lost: Gold robe cham with solid gold nug­get medalion. Poesibly lost In lhe ACC Thursday noghlln lhe Indoor soccer tourn· amen! near gym one or two upstailll. San­ti mental value and reward is oHered $$$$. If found pteaae calf Mike Viracola at 283­4100 anytome. 
A calculator found In Hayes-Healy. If you lost one call BRUSH to claim it at 1150. 
LOST: ONE PAIR OF BLACK LEATHER SKI GLOVES BUT I DONT KNOW WHERE. CAU CHRIS IF FOUND AT 1t50. 
REMEMBER WHEN ..... you took that Phyaica book from 1 58A Stepan several Mondays ago? Well there 1s a name in it. Check lhe brown, maida, lower, right cover. It uya Kevin Shea. 283-3828. I need It back. 
FOUND: A SILVER RING-LOOKS VER­AAAAY VALUABLE FOUND ON 3rd FLOOR PANGBORN LAST WEEKEND CALL 2329 OR 1264 AND DESCRIBE 
FOUND: U.die'a watch during breakfast (Thursday, 2/28) at North Dining Hall. Call 1101 (Gary, Jim, or Bubba) to iden­llly. 
LOST: A ROUND. BROWN, LEATHER BASKETBALL I LOST IT AT THE ACC LAST WEEK. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL DAVE BECAUSE I FEEL LIKE AN IDIOT FOR LOSING IT. MY NUMBER IS 1118. 
LOST: Key cham with 3 keys, two dorm keys and one small, silver trunk key SMURF key chain says: "I'd rather be -'<iing. "If found please call 4061, ASAP I !I 
LOST :Black and gold Croes pen between U.undry Bldg and Mornaaey last Friday at 1 t :30 a.m. --3828 Kevin 
Lost: A girl's GOLD bracelet, somewhere on campus, Saturday. March 2. II was a golt, and IS of great sentimental value. If lound, PLEASE return to Aline--238 Lewia, X21 79. Please have a conscience! REWARD OFFERED" 
LOST: Necldace With 11ngle pearl in the women'a locker room at the Rock on Sun night. Would It help If I tu11d It had sen· timental value. it does Please call TRISH at 232-o659. 

FOUND SUNDAY NIGHT OUTSIDE STEPAN CENTER A BENGAL BOUTS TICKET NUMBER 1 111. I SAW YOU DROP IT BUT COULDN'T FIND YOU IN THE CROWD. CALL KIM 4205. 
LOST: My keys on Saturday night at the Zodiac party at St. Mary's Clubhouse. If you found them, please Jet me know. I need them back. Thanks' Molly x4003 
LOST BLACK ARMY ROTC COAT AT ST. MARY'S CLUB HOUSE SATURDAY MARCH3. IF FOUND CALL3127. 
LOST: A GOLD ROPE BRACELET AT THE SENIOR COCKTAIL DANCE IN THE MONOGRAM ROOM OF THE ACC, THURS. FEB. 28. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL MARY 277-3834. THANKSI 
Found: a leather basketball at lhe Rock. If you fit the situation please call Bill at x3133 to describe your rock and hopefully cla1mit 
FOUND; Cat near Senior Bar. Call Dan 1849. 
LOST: Pendant on a silver chain some­where between South Dining Hall, the Rock, and the ACC Wedneeday evening, February 13. Pendant has a rose painted on a black background. with a silver back­ing. It haa great sentimental value. REWARD:Does a pan of brownies and my undying gratitude sound good? If found please call Karen x2145. 
lost: light blue wool suit jacket with blue lealhar parches on elbows. left at the ACC after the brunch lor JPW. call Tom at 1655 
LOST: PAIR OF BAUER CHALLENGER HOCKEY SKATES LAST FRIDAY IN THE CUSHING AUDITORIUM AFTER THE I 1:15 EMIL CLASS. THEY WERE IN A GREEN BAG WITH THE LETTERS "MIKE'S PLACE" PLEASE CALL MIKE OR KEVIN AT 3443. 
................................................................ 
LOST: GOLD CHAIN BREACELET BE­TWEEN (OR IN) CAMPUS MINISTRY, THE GREAT ZAHM HALL & FARLEY. SENTIMENTAL VALUE, PLEASE RETURN IF FOUND FOR REWARD. CALL LAURIE AT 4039. 
LOST Black ~,;;j"iil~e W~ S;;;;..j;;., 
near the ACC. If found, call Karen at x2676. 
LOST: Blue ski jacket at SMC Saturday. Reward. Call Terry 1436. 
FOR RENT 

Nice semi-furnished house. 3/4 students. 255-3684/288-0955. 
N1ce 2 student semi-furnished house, 288-0955/277-3604. 
SUBLET LARGE 2BR APT. AC, DISH­WASHER, WALK-IN CLOSETS, WAS· HER AND DRYER, PETS OK, RIVERSIDE DR. AND ANGELA. CALL 232-4355 
RENTING NOW FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR-FIVE & SIX BEDROOM HOMES. COMPLETELY FURNISHED WITH WASHER & DRYER. CALL 234-9364 AFTER 5. 
WANTED 

RIDE TO NEWARK NEEDED. CAN LEAVE ANY TIME AFTER THURSDAY MORNING, MARCH 14. WILL SHARE USUAL. CALL MIKE AT x1745. 
EXCELLENT INCOME FOR HOME AS­SEMBLY WORK. FOR INFO CALL 504­646·0315 EXT B-1938 
Summer Sales Positions. Average earn1nga $2,900. Sell yellow page adver­tiSing for University of Notre Dame Campus Telephone Directory. Car neces­sary No summer school students. Qualified students should call University Directories, 1-80Q-334-4436, lor more in­formation and to set up an interview by March I 1. Ask for Barbara Nieukirk. 
CALC 105 TUTOR NEEDED: WILL PAY $$ -STAAT IMMEDIATELY DUE TO TEST NEXT WEEK. CALL SHAWN AT 4107 
RIDE NEEDED: to Kewanee, IIJ.(along 1-80). Leave 3-15. Share usual. Call Jack 2066. 
RIDERS NEEDED TO DC., S. MD. CALL 3283 FOR INFO 
Need ride to Pittsburgh this weekend. Call Karen at 2844. 
Need ride to Rochester,NY for Spring Break. Can leave3/15. Call Mike 2510 
NEED RIDE TO MADISON WI. FOR SPRING BREAK. WILL SHARE EX­PENSES. CA.LL AOBB AT 4107 
NEED MATH 104 TUTOR FOR TEST NEXT TUESDAY. IF INTERESTED CALL ROBB AT 4107. 
CHICAGOII CHICAGO!! Need a nde to downtown ( or the west 'burbs) on FRIDAY March 8th. Please have it in your big heart to give Usa a call­-She is always lonely!! Her number is 283-3033. She is so lgnely so keep trying ro call even real late at nigh! -!hat of course IS when she is home. 
Ride Needed ro Dayton Area Leave 3/13 (Wedn. before Spr. Break) share usual, call Suzette 284-4242 THANKS 
Round Trip transportation to FLORIDA only $60... for further info call Dan(2580) or Tom(2551) 
DESPERATELY NEEDED: One ride to Cleveland area leaving Fri .. Mar 15 alter 
11 :00. I must get home by Friday. Anyone going on the Ohio Turnpike please call Steve -1794. 
GOING TO FLORIDA? I need ride aa far as Macon, Georgia or vicinity. Can leave Tllu111. or after. Cell Mike at 3246. 
NEED MORE RIDERS, FLORIDA.DAYTONA, FT. LAUDERDALE, $80 ROUND TRIP, CALL JEFF3467 
RIDE NEEDED TO CHICAGO: Down­town or any suburb. Friday,3/6. Please call Gina-2695. 
Need ride to PITISBURGH over Spring Break. I can leave Fri. or Sat. 15/16. Call Karen. x2676. 
Ride needed to Pittsburgh area for spring break. Please call Jim at 1930. 
.,.. ................. 

RIDE NEEDED TO LONG ISLAND NY AREA FOR BREAK CALL KATHLEEN 1267 PLEASE! 
RIDERS needed to DAYTON Thurs. 256­6676 Dave. 
RIDERS needed to CINCINNATI for Spring Break, leaving 3/15. Call Dave at 277-3953 evemngs for details. 
••••••••••••••••Ito ...................... 

Ride Needed to DAYTON, OH leaving Friday afternoon on March 8. Please aall Joenat4161. 
RIDE NEEDED TO ATLANTA CAN LEAVE THURS AM CALL PAT 1003 
RIDE NEEDED to SAAASOTA/FT.MEYERS after GMAT on saturday! Please call 284-5049. 
.................................... 

I NEED A RIDE TO ANN ARBOR· DETROIT AREA FOR SPRING BREAK. PLEASE CALL MELODY 284-5482. 
FOR SALE 

FOR SALE: 1 980 PLYMOUTH CHAMP GOOD GAS MILEAGE GREAT FOR RUNNING AROUND TOWN. KNOWS ITS WAY TO THE BAAS BY HEART!! NEED TO SELL AS SOON AS POSSI­BLE. NEED TO FLY THE FAMILY OUT FOR GRADUATION!! ASKING FOR THE HIGHEST BIDDER. YOU WON'T REGRET rt. CALL JEFF AT 3859 OR STOP IN 128 ST. E·o·s. 
MAXELL TAPESII SPRING BREAK CLEARANCE XLII-90mn. $24/case of 10 Call 1 596 or 124 Dillon 

SKI BOOTS -Hanson Citation, 1 year old, $65. Call 239-56gg, daytime only. 
TICKETS 
FLY to RALEIGH, N.C. for Brenk' Call Sueat2960. 
PERSONALS 
RIDE TO NEWARK NEEDED. CAN LEAVE ANY TIME AFTER THURSDAY MORNING, MARCH 14. WILL SHARE USUAL. CALL MIKE AT x1745. 
SKI VAll COLO SPRING BREAK Condo sleeps 41, Ful Kitch, FRPL, Jaccuzi, Pool, LV M58 303-665-2700 
WARD'S WARRIORS...WARD'S WAR­RIOAS...WARD'S WARRIORS WARD'S WARRIORS...WAAD'S WAR­RIORS.. .WARD'S WARRIORS WARD'S WARRIORS.. .WARD'S WAR­RIORS... WARD'S WARRIORS 
THEY'RE COMING IIIII THEY'RE COMINGIIIII CHESTER AND ANNE 
THE SUN, THE SNOW, THE NIGHTLIFE, THE MOUNTAINS. SKI THE BEST THIS SPRING BREAK­ASPEN, COLORADO. $3971NCLUDES TRANSPORTATION, 6 DAY LIFT PASS, 7 NIGHTS LODGING RIGHT ON THESLOPESICALLMIKEAT283-3573 FOR INFORMATION OR TO SIGN-UP. 
............................................................... 
SMC Students Get involved! Join the KOLLMAN GENERATION Applications for 1985-86 Commissioner positions available now through Tur11. March 7 pick up at HCC. 
LET'S GO METROIII NY METRO CLUB SPRING BREAK BUS SIGN-UPS TONJTE ] 7 PM 2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE WP 85 PA 80 BUS LEAVES Ffll. BE THERE, ALOHAIII 
BOXERSBOXERSBOXERS "KISS ME I'M IRISH" $5 .... BOXER SHORTS .... $5 ON SALE IN THE DINING HALLS MARCH 4 THRU 8 JUST IN TIME FOR ST. PAT'S DAY 
HI CRAIG! IT'S ABOUT TIME YOU'RE HERE! WEU, WHAT DO YOU THINK? READY TO TRANSFER? THAT'S OK, I STILL LOVE VA. YF, ME 
Riders needed to Rochester, NY. Leaving 3/14 and returning 3/24. Call Frank af 1422. 
1 need ri·d'~ i~ "chi;,;;g~· Fri. return Sun. ;South burbs or close. Call John 2454 
NEED EXTRA $. SELL YOUR CLASS BOOKS AT PANDORA'S BOOKS,937 SO.BEND AVE.M-F B/T12-4PM. WE ALSO OFFER A 3 DAY SERVICE FOR USED BOOK~. 
PITISBURGH SPRING BREAK BUS SIGN UPS: THURSDAY, 7 P.M. LAFORT. Lll THEATER. $45 ROUND TRIP,$30 ONE WAY. BUS LEAVES FRI. MARCH 154 P.M. 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
A'LA BRAZILEAN CARNIVAL LUNCH Center for Social Concerns, March 7 
11:30-1:30 
But remember Suda, you can't apell GEEK without a EE 

A'LA BRAZILEAN CARNIVAL LUNCH Center for Social Concerns Thursday 11:30-1:30 
TDK SA 90 Tapea Five for $10 Available today only ar Rock du Lac. first 
floor LaFortune. Um1t 10. Check out the latest albums by the Alan Parsons Project, XTC, the Tubes. John Fogerty, Phil Collins, Mick Jagger. and others now available. 
THEY MOAN, THEY GROAN, THEY CRY FOR MORE---THE CHORUS OF ELECTRA 
Greek women do it under their togas...See ELECTRA 
THIS IS WHAT YOU HAVE ALL BEEN WAITING FOR: MANDATORY IN­FORMATIONAL MEETING FOR ALL THOSE GOING ON THE STUDENT AC­TIVITIES BOARD SPONSORED TRIPS TO FT. LAUDERDALE AND DAYTONA BEACH. WHEN? THURSDAY, MARCH 7, 1985 AT 9PM. WHERE? THE LA FORTUNE UTILE THEATER. 
RIDE OR RIDERS NEEDED TO UNIV. OF IOWA, IOWA CITY THIS WEEKEND. LEAVING THIS FRIDAY THE 8th AND RETURNING THE 1Oth. CALL JEFF AT 1118. 
"Can we just drop these rwo guys oH at the seminary?" 
....,................ 
GET PSYCHED FOR SPRING BREAKI Send BEACH IN A BAG to your friends! On sale for 50 cents at SAGA during din­ner3/5-3n Sponsored by SMC CIRCLE K CLUB 
TROUBLESOME TRIO 1 ODIE DOOlE PODIEBEAAO 
SUSAN O'DELL it won't be long now,C--T 
Antonia & Bath Bobby, Bill, and even Sharkey are 
GOING METROIII 
How about you? It promises to be another great trip (though I don't think Beth re­members too much of the last one!)!!! 
................................ 
TO All THOSE WHO HELPED WITH THE CAMPAIGN THANKS A MILLION LOVE BEAVER . 
MATI DONAHER: The wailing is the hardest part ...but be of good cheer! It's al­most over. Monday, March 11 IS THE big day. Make sure you watch the personals on Monday to gel the important details! It's also a good idea NOT to make any plans for Monday dinner. .. 
Morals for sale??? 
FREE DRINK WITH YOUR SUB. CALL THE YEUOW SUB FOR DELIVERY AT 272-4453 MO-TH 8-1 1 pm FR-SA 8pm­1am 
Hey Colleen and Katie: Up for a Thursday night roadtrip to Chicago, er, 1 mean, Gary? C'mon, it's the college thing ro do. Wendy's fish sandwiches, Chicago songs, and some random guy jamming in his car on the skyway. Check out h81 fin­gernails! Thanks. Pals. Fredly. 
Hello Aenea. I hope you have a speedy recovery. The countdown is ten days and I can't wait! love Always Ray Dog 
We wish a Happy B-Day to you To ·;;;e girl from the Cleveland Kret-Zoo Bur you're now into farming Which will be quite alarmmg When your k1ds start to g1ve milk and moo. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY COLLEEN! 
~­
We wuv you Coween' Happy B-Day' T. Jen, Mopsy, Mel, Jilly-Bean, Lady D1, Moira 
.............................................., ... ,........... . GO IRISH SWIMMERS ! GOOD LUCK AT MIDWEST -THE SHMEN 
iiid'~;; ~~~ci~d' i~ N~rth.;;~;i~;~ ·u c~a~~ 
Friday. come back Sunday. Call Jenmfer at 284 -5276. 
Dear Mary. remember Sean, Mike. Elbow and, Oh .. don't forget Casey and the top bunk. Gan't wail until this weekend! Love Dana. 
I'm a Southerner gomg west for break Need ski Jacket. W1ll pay $$. Call Marc 1158. 
HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY TO A GENUINE IRISH COLLEEN 3516 
coco 
TOASTMASTERS 
Early meellng today (6:00) 223 Hayes-Healy V1s1tors/New Members Welcome 
Food: It even sounds nutntious ... 
Happy 21st Birthday ANN LOPEZ!!Remember pubhc 1ntmucation IS against the alcohol policy!But r won't !ell. Love 1/2 of !he Mex1can Connect1on 
SENIOR FORMAL !able, room reserva­tions, flower orders 316-3/10 ar leMans and LaFortune, 5-7 pm. 
Join the MAJORITY FOR MUSICAL MORALITY (MMM) and atamp out Prince, Styx, and other evil rock n' rol­lera. Cell DR. RIGHTEOUS now! 
U.dy Margaret, Come Sell AW11y With Mel 
JOHN LAWLER-the phantom of Flenner SA, turns 21 TODAYI!I Don't worry, you won't be laked today, but baWIIre of belated birthday• rr 
I know you thought we'd never remember, but even disappearing occaaionally didn't do it 
"Whore's John? I don'r know ... 
"Chiman• residence. No, John doesn't live here anymore. You migh! try ..... 
Never roo Lare For MARDI GRAS Brazilean Soup and Hot Bread Center for Social Concerns. March 7 11:30-1:30 
TOLOANDGRO THERE'S NO BETIER FRIEND THAN A PRETIY AND UNDERSTANDING GIRL THERE ARE NO OTHER FRIENDS LIKE YOU. 
RIDERS NEEDED TO D.C., MD, VA. CALL1246. 
•K':j··a::· so:wHiir.is vollii.F-:.\voRtrE 
FLAVOR? AS LONG AS ITS NOT TOO EXOTIC,IM GAME. (ABOUT THE DATE THAT lSI II) K.R.M. 
ADAM WAS A ROUGH DRAFT. 
WHEN GOD CREATED DOMERS SHE WAS DRUNK. 
Abiogenesis Dance Collective presents MOTION in concert at The Chameleon Club 
5:30 ro 7:30 at Haggar College Center (SMC) 
MOTION 1n concert at THE CHAMELEON CLUB Friday, March 8: 5:30-7:30 p.m. 
FAIL NOW AND AVOID THE MAY RUSH I the smc gem1ni 
DEAR SNOOPY REMEMBER, Pis P; P&F are ours. love, Mommy 
Hey all you ND-SMC cool cats and chicks. rock around the clock 'rill you drop at the LEMANS SOCK HOP, Friday. 9:00p.m.­2a.m. in the LeMans lobby. 
LeMans Sock Hop 3-8-85 LEMANS SOCK HOP 3-8-85 LeMans Sock Hop 3-8-85 $1.00 admission 
SWIM FAST SENIORS I We should'vp done the relay Tim! Fly Brian' (the "Kids" will be cheering) Yeah Paul! Jove. your dedicated fan club (This IS your lucky day!) 
·-· 


~~-----------------------------------------------~-------~---.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer Wednesday, March 6, 1985 -page 9 
Women's program builds on Class of '85 
Dan Duff plays his role on Irish basketball team 
There are usually special ceremonies for seniors who are playing their final home game, and today's basketball games will be no different as the Class of 1985 will make its final appearance in the ACC. 
But while tonight's men's game will be attended by a sellout crowd, there will probably be the usual sparse crowd on hand for the women's game against Dayton which begins at 4 p.m. This is no big deal to the women who are used to paltry crowds of 200 or so people -few of whom are Notre Dame students. 
Still, it is somewhat disappointing that there will be so few people around to say goodbye to a group of players that has formed the foundation ofwhat is a rapidly improv­ing women's basketball program. 
"I brought them in expecting them to progress as the program did or vice versa," says fifth-year coach Mary DiS­tanislao about her first real recruiting class. "You couldn't ask for a better lead-offgroup." 
Of the five recruits that were brought in by DiStanislao to turn around a 10-18 team that was struggling to make the jump from Division III to Division I and bring it to the brink ofa possible post-season bid, not all of them are still 
"When I came here, I just wanted to be able to say that I was part of the beginning of a successful program." 
-Ruth Kaiser 

around. One player dropped out ofschool after a year, but four -Laura Dougherty, Mary Beth Scbueth, Ruth Kaiser and Carrie Bates -stuck around long enough to make a large mark on the program. 
It is only fitting that today's game may be the one that gives the Irish their first conference championship. A win may also be enough to get the team into some kind ofpost­season tournament, possibly the Women's NIT. 
For Dougherty, Schueth and Kaiser, it would be a happy ending to what has been four years of ups and downs. For Bates, who quit the team just a month ago, the game will give her one last chance to sit in the stands and watch her three classmates play. 
For someone who has followed the program for the last few years, it gets very hard to separate the group into four separate entities. Each player has made major contribu-
By ERIC SCHEUERMANN 
Sports Writer 
Throughout his years in an Notre Dame uniform, senior point guard Dan Duff has not often been associ­ated with stardom. But this does not detract from the fact that many times the 6-0 backcourt player has contributed to Irish wins with his steady ballhandling, outstanding passing, team leadership and clutch free throw shooting. 
An excellent example ofthis came in Sunday's game against a tough Washington team. With the Irish hanging onto a three-point lead in the final two minutes, Duff calmly sank four of five free throws to clinch the victory. 
"We felt (Duff) was the worst shooter statistically out on the floor," said Washington coach Marv Harshman after the game. Duff certainly showed the Huskies how wrong they were on Sunday. "1 was really happy with the Washing­ton game," says Duff. "It was kind of fun to come in at the end ofthe game and make those free throws. I know when Coach (Digger Phelps) puts me in that he has full trust in me that I'm going to be able to make those 
free throws. 
"It was also kind ofgood because the Washington players were telling me all the time about how the pres­sure was going to get to me. It really made me feel good to come in and hit those last four out offive -just to kind ofsay 'face' to them." 
Coming off Sunday's clutch per­formance, Duff will play in his final home game tonight against Mar­quette, as will senior Barry Spencer. Senior walk-on Casey Newell will not play due to his broken elbow. 
Tonight's game brings Duff closer to the end of a college career that began three and a half years ago when Duff entered Notre Dame as a freshman out of Lincoln Community High School in Lincoln, Illinois. 
"Freshman year, I came in just hoping to find out a little more about the system, and maybe play a little role," says Duff. "After that, I just wanted to get a little more playing time and have a bigger role contri­buting to the team." 
Duffstarted out right on schedule, backing up Irish guard John Paxson in his freshman year, until he suf­fered a broken ankle in a January game against Virginia, an injury from which he did not return until late in the season. 
In his sophomore season, he moved into the starting point-guard slot during the second half of the season as the Irish went to more ofa ball-control offense. 
But last year during his junior campaign, after having earned a starting spot, Duff was sidetracked when he was declared academically ineligible for the second semester. And when Notre Dame recruited David Rivers to take over as point guard this year, it was apparent that Duffs starting days were over. 
But Duff, who saw his startingspot escape him as Rivers decided to at­tend Notre Dame, kept his mind set on how he could help the Irish most. 
"We heard all about David during the off-season, and about how im­pressive he was to Coach," says Duff. "We heard about how we were going to have to learn to play with him. 
"I just took it upon myself to let things go as they went, and to accept how they went. And I've been mostly happy with the way things have gone this season. I've known since David got here that he was going to take over and run the show. 
"I've been pretty happy this year,"· 
Michael Sullivan 
Sports Editor 


tions at various times during the past four years and each has her own special abilities, but the Notre Dame women's basketball program has become something of a force ­maybe not a great one, yet, but it's heading that way -not since Schueth or any one person stepped on the court, but since all four ofthem played their first game four years ago. 
Since Ike. 3, 1981, when it played for the first time as a group, the Class of 1985 has led Notre Dame to a 68-38 record against an increasingly difficult schedule. It has combined for 3900 points and 1942 rebounds. But, more importantly, it has provided a base for talented players like Trena Keys ('86), Sandy Botham ('88) and Mary Gavin ('88) to work from as DiStanislao keeps the program climb­ing toward the Top Twenty. 
"I really don't know what it'll be like without them," says 
DiStanislao. "They've been here for as long as I have, for all 
intents and purposes. After all, we spent the whole first 
year recruiting them. 
"We'll miss them-there's no question about that. You don't always know what you have until it's gone, but their presence here will be felt in the program. They're leaving things in good hands." 
DiStanislao literally went all over the country to find players who she thought could put Notre Dame women's basketball on the map. What she found was a big-play de­fensive player in Tempe, Ariz. (Kaiser), an outside shooter and passer in Hillside, N.J. (Dougherty), a deadly inside shooter in Kansas City, Mo. (Bates), and a hard-nosed scorer and rebounder in Indianapolis ( Schueth). 
Since that first game in 1981 -a 78-44 win over St. Francis -each of DiStanislao's recruits has contributed in a big way. Schueth will graduate as the school's all-time leading rebounder and second-leading scorer, while Bates will finish third in scoring and fourth in rebounding. Doug­herty will hold the school assist and foul-shooting records, while Kaiser will possess the unofficial school record for crucial defensive plays. 
As successful as the group has been statistically, though, it has not been an easy four years. The departure of Bates for personal reasons shows this. But, even with Bates gone and Kaiser and Dougherty seeingless and less playing time, 
continues Duff. "I know the role I'm 
supposed to play, and I think it's like 
a relief pitcher who comes in, and 
knows he can either get the save or 
the loss. 
"So, in that aspect, I think I can come in and make sure we win. But also, Lean take the loss ifwe end up losing. So I look at it in a way that whatever I can contribute during a game is my goal." 
But his basketball career will end 
soon, and Duff already has plans for 
life after Notre Dame. A manage­
ment major in the College of Busi­
ness, Duff has been offered a job as a 
financial analyst at Hughes Aircraft 
in Los Angeles. For this, he in part 
thanks Notre Dame. 
"The biggest reason why I came 
here was academics," says Duff. "I 
knew that because of my height and 
a few other things it would take a lot 
of luck to get a chance to go to the 
NBA. 
"So I knew that after my four years here, I would have to go into the real world and start working. I looked at 
·it from that standpoint, and I knew Notre Dame had a great tradition of academic excellence, which is something I have benefited from. 
"And I've been happy with the 
four years here," he continues. "I 
know that maybe my basketball 
career could have been a lot better 
someplace else. But then I look back 
at things I've gone through, and I 
know that I've learned so much 
being here. 
"I've learned a lot more about 
people and a lot more about myself. 
So I'm really happy I made the 
choice to come here." 
And with his final season winding 
down, it comes as no surprise that 
Duffs major goal is for the team to 
make the NCAA Tournament, some­
thing that has not happened during 
his years here. 
"This season has been going know how long it has been since a 
pretty well," says Duff. "We've had a basketball player has gone through couple games that we should have four years here and hasn't been to won, and we all know that we should the Tournament. 
have won those. But right now I "As far as myself goes, I'd just like think we're in a better position for to contribute a little bit to each an NCAA bid than in any of the past game we play." two years. And although he may not contrib­"And I really want to get to the ute much, what he contributes may NCAA Tournament, because I don't very well be important. 

the group has shown that DiStanislao made some good choices four years ago. 
"When I came here, I just wanted to be able to say that I was part of the beginning of a successful program," says Kaiser. "If that means that I'm going to come offthe bench and put in a few productive minutes, showing the younger players that I'm willing to do it and not complain, that's fine." 
"I really expected that we would have reached the NCAA Tournament by my junior year," admits Dougherty, "but, even though we may never get that far, I can't com­plain. Basketball was a way to an education. And I'll always be thankful for the opportunity to travel around the country and for the people that I have met in the past four years." 
Even for Bates who decided that she had had enough basketball despite having to last just one more month, the three-plus years have been worth all the hard work. 
"I know it will happen, but I don't want to be thought of as a quitter," says Bates. "I just hope that people realize that 
"Basketball was a way to an education. And I'll always be thankful for the oppurtunity to travel around the country and for the people that I have met in the past four years." 
-Laura Dougherty 
I don't regret the past four years. Even though I left, I enjoyed it very much." ...._ 
Four years from now, when players like Keys and Gavin have replaced the names ofSchueth, Bates, Dougherty and Kaiser in the record books, the impact of the Class of '85 may seem diminished, but it would be wrong to think that the group that started the ball rolling for the program will not always be a part ofNotre Dame women's basketball. 
Whether the program ever reaches the level of the top teams in the country still remains to be seen, but the prospects are looking much better after the 1984-85 season. But, even though the seniors will never see the results oftheir hard work, they realize that they have done about as much as they could. 
"I just want us to be remembered as a class act," says Kaiser. Class, as in Class of 1985. 
The Observer Wednesday, March 6, 1985-page 10 


depth. and talent," says DiStanislao. 
"Sharon Curd ami Rhonda Kiene give them some great outside shoot· 

Track 
The ObKrver/File Photo 
Sentor Mary Beth Scbuetb and ber teammates wtll take on Dayton tbts afternoon tn an important NSC contest. For more on tbe game, see page 12. For a feature on Scbuetb and ber fellow sentors, see page 9. 
Warriors 
continuedfrom page 12 
Piloting the attack for Head Coach Rick Majerus' Warrior squadron will be 6-0 senior point guard Mandy Johnson, who has been averaging 
11.4 points a game for Marquette as well as collecting a total of86 assists. Johnson will most likely see hand-to­hand combat with Notre Dame's David Rivers again, as the two St. An­thony's (Jersey City, N.J.) High School products faced each other for the first time in january. 
Joining Johnson In the backcourt will be Roben Hall, a 6-0 senior who is scoring at a 7.6 pace. junior guard Benny Moore and freshman new­comer Michael Sims spell Johnson and Hall off the bench. 
At higher altitudes, Marquette's big men ( 6-6 forward Kerry Trotter, 

than one-third of the team's total of 
290. 

Junior Ken Barlow is right behind 
Rivers with a I 5.4 scoring clip, as 
well as leading the Irish in rebound­
ing with almost seven boards a con­
test. Guard Scott Hicks (9.0 ppg, 3.9 
rpg), forward Donald Royal (8.2 
ppg, 5.1 rpg) and center Tim 
Kempton (6.8 ppg, 4.9 rpg) round 
out the Notre Dame offensive attack. 
Barlow scored 14 and Kempton 
pumped in 15 in theJan. 12 game. 
Forward Jim Dolan ( 4.3 ppg, 4.5 
rpg), guard joseph Price ( 5.0 ppg, 
1.9rpg) iii(fguard Dan Duff ( 40 as­sists this season, .724 FT percentage) have been the main sources ofreinforcement for Phelps, while freshmen Gary Voce and Matt Beeuwsaen have also come off the bench to make significant contribu­tions this season. 
Majerus' Warriors have kept their strategy for tonight's game quiet on the Midwestern front, but their im­mediate goal is to spoil Notre 

Flyers 
continuedfrom page 12 
But we want to win the conference 
by beating the best possible team, 
and Dayton is the best overall." 
The Lady Flyers have acheived much of their success by building a deep bench, and by stressing a potent inside attack. Head coach linda Makowski's squad returned eight players from last year's 27-4 team, which went to the Final Four in its last season in Division II, and some pre-season analysts even tabbed her squad to step right into the NSC championship in this their first year. 
Although the Lady Flyers boast many talented contributors, center Theresa Yingling is the ace of the squad. The 6-S junior averages ex­actly 12 points per game, and adds to that a standard of 8 rebounds per game. In fact, one of the keys to the earlier Irish victory in Dayton was the fact that Yingling got into foul trouble and was limited to only 16 points in 21 minutes ofaction. 
"We're going to have to play good position defen'ie on Yingling," says DiStanislao. "She is a good post-up player, and if she comes alive, she can really take advantage inside. We have to try to keep the ball out ofher hands and keep her offthe boards." 
Also potent inside for the Lady 
Flyers are forwards Cheryl Dicker­
son ( 5.4 ppg) and Rhonda Klette 
(9.6 ppg). Dickerson, at 6-0, and Klette, at 5-8, are both big enough to handle the rebounding chores as they average S.3 rpg and 4.1 rpg respectively, but they are both also versatile enough to play outside as guards. 
Other players who will be counted on to fill the lane and pull down the boards are forwards Monica West, Lori Cahill and Sharon Curd, and 6-4 center Kathy O'Brien. 
"Dayton has a great deal of size, 
"We beat them in Milwaukee," says Phelps, "but they'll come in here knowing they had us in a negative at the end and that we needed a desperation shot from Rivers to do it." 
So this shapes up to be an crucial 
battle in the Midwestern war. At this 
point in the season, every win is a must, and Phelps doesn't plan to take any prisoners. 
"I can't worry about how many wins it will take to get into the NCAA tournament," says Phelps. "I'm not on the committee and I don't know what they're thinking right now. 
"Alii can worry about is beating Marquette and Dayton, and that's ex­actly what I told our players. I told them, 'Win the last two games, you'll be 20-8 and then you've done all you can do.' Last year Dayton got in as the second independent at 18-10. But there are no guarantees, so we've got to play as ifboth games are must games for us." 

ing, and Kathy O'Brien has the height to play the high post and be a real threat from there." 
The Lady Flyers have an arsenal in the backcourt as well. Five-five point guard Mary Byers leads the attack at a 9.2 ppg clip, while S-6 senior guard Leah Abla complements her back­court teammate with an 1 1.0 ppg average. Also chipping in from the perimeter is 6-2 hot-shot freshman Michelle Kruty, 
All 10 ofthe Dayton players saw at least 10 minutes ofaction in the first contest, and the Lady Flyers seem ready and anxious to make even bet­ter contributions this time. 
"We're going to have to do a good job defensively on their inside game, control the boards, and set the tempo," says DiStanlslao. "Nor can we afford to turn the ball over, for Dayton just has too many weapons." 
For the Irish, the championship is there for the taking. They are getting consistent offensive production from the inside, as 6-0 senior for­ward Mary Beth Schueth anchors the team with a 10.7 ppg average to go with her 7.6 rpg mark. Six-two center Sandy Botham adds 9.0 ppg and 5.0 rpg, and junior forward Trena Keys continues to impress ob­servers with her 17. S ppg. 
On the other end of the court, unusually tough trial heats. Nobles missed the finals in the SOO meters with a I :04.89, and Jeff Van Wie could not advance out of a talent laden 1000 meter heat despite his 
2:29.77. John McNelis ran very well to gain a spot in the ROO meter finals, but did not place with a I :S2.2S against some unbelievable competi­tion. 
The two-mile relay team ~ould have advanced with a 7:53.91 if it had been in another heat. Paul Duvair (I:SS.5 ), Bill Courtney ( 1 :S4.S ), and John Dadamio ( 1 :SS. S) all ran personal bests while Rick Mulvey contributed a solid l:S7leg. 
"The dividends will be great from this relay, since the freshman who ran received valuable experience in a championship meet," said Plane. 
As a team, Notre Dame had its best performance at the 1C4A meet in I I years. The Irish placed fifth overall with 29 points, as Villanova, Penn State, Boston University and Geor· getown finished ahead of them. Piane was very pleased with the outcome, considering that 79 teams out of the 116-member IC4A Con· ference were represented at the meet. 
meanwhile, they are allowing a paltry 59.2 points per game to their opponents, which is one of the best marks in the NCAA. 
And if they can shoot down the bothersome Lady Flyers today, they can make a claim as one of the best overall teams in the NCAA. Maybe even an NCAA tournament team. 
Please 
I 
support the AMERICAN 
WCANCER 
!'SOCIETY~ 

PLAYth• 7-ELEVEN GAME! 
During NO Women's 
last Home Basketball 
Game of the Year 
Wed., March 6 
vs. Dayton 4 p.m. 
YDU CAN BE A WINNER. .lUST BY SHOWING UP!! 
Ifth• lrl•har• ah•adafth•ir appan•nt by•ith•r••v•nar 
•l•v•npaint• at halft;im• ar at th• •ndafth• vam•.yau 'i•t a caupan far a ••• 
FREE BIG GULP 
ort-..-.tpalll; ,,._..,......,_....... 
6-9 forward Walter Downing and 6-Now them's fightin' words.
Dame's 13-2 home record. 
10 center Tom Copa) aren't ones to 
retreat under fire. Trotter, a junior, is a good passing forward who also fires In 11.3 points per contest, net­


YOUR CIVILIAN SKILL
ting 11 in the first meeting between the two teams. Trotter is also Mar­

CAN EARN YOU A
quette's leading rebounder with 6.3 boards a game. 


QUICK ARMY PROMOTION.
Downing. Illinois' 1981 Mr. Bas­ketball, muscles around inside to score 8.4 points and pull down four 

In the Army's Civilian Acquired Skills Program. you could 
rebounds a game. The junior trans­

qualify for a quick promotion before Initial Entry Training. Say 
fer from DePaul was the Blue 

you have two years' experience in mechanics, food services, 
Demons' leading shot blocker before switching allegiances after 

computers, or a wide variety of skills. Maybe you're getting the the 1982-83 season. Copa, a veteran 
experience now in a two-year college or vo-tech school. By joining 
sophomore, started 19 games as a 

the Army, you'll start your service at a higher rank, with more pay, 
freshman, and hopes to improve on 

and you may even be able to earn another promotion after only 
his six-point, two-rebound perfor­

eight weeks ofworking in your skill. 
mance in the last meeting between 

See if your skill experien~e can pay off for you in the Army. 
the Irish and the Warriors. For the Irish, it was Rivers' off­

See your local Army Recruiter. 
balance jumper with no time 
Sgt. Brennan
remaining which gave Notre Dame 
234-4187
Its one-point victory at Milwaukee Arena. Rivers currently leads Irish scorers with a IS.S average, al­

ARMY. BE ALLYOU CAN BE. 
though he is shooting only 41 per­cent from the floor. Rivers has also dished out 1 I 0 assists so far, more 




Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side 




The Daily Crossword 

35 Humid 66 Charred 13 Long-bodied
ACROSS 38 Moum 67 Addict cat 1 Gallery 39 Shanties 68 Urge 19 Composition7 Sweet potato 40 Bequeath 69 Things owned 21 Trade 
10 Challenge to 41 Speak harshly 24 Inventor combat 42 Choler DOWN Nikola 14 Having a cover 43 Did grammar 1 Originate 
27 Legal matter 15 Harem room work 2 Ramblers 28 Leaven16 "-a Rose" 44 Insects 3 Great name on 30 Colonial battle 17 Cebu or Cor1u 45 Estonian city Broadway. 
site,177718 Sense organ 47 Searched out 4 From a distance 31 Expel20 Prophets 49 "-and the 5 More compact 32 Opponents of 21 Ancient Gaza Man" 6 Famous Roush Dems.
town 52 Furtive of baseball 22 Prof. Rhine's 53 Time periods: 33 Bar voucher specialty abbr. ~ 7 Long ago 34 Atmosphere23 Timetable 56 US humorist 8 "-without 36 Notwilling
abbr. 60 Flycatcher a name" 37 Commemorative 25 Portion 62 Vacillating 9 Large: pref. piece26 Planetarium 63 Reach port 10 Ground squirrel 29 Ann-64 Church tribunal 11 Poker money 41 Scot. explorer 33 Solicitude 65 Aunt to a nino 12 Rounded lump 43 Cleanse 

46 Violent one 
I KNOWI BUT I COIJLJ> 
HARDLY ASk 8E"AV 
ANC> NOT YOU! 

Gary !..anon 
55 Sows 
48 Nicosia's land 56 Teacher 50 Pithy 57 Biblical name 51 Hawkins of 58 Bone: pref. 
Dogpatch 59 Actress Cannon 54 Buttress an 61 Makes mistakes embankment 63 Sleeveless robe 
Yesterday's Solution 
RAGSIHOPIIA81DE
E 0 I T 0 N E S S E N 0 R 8 0 A R L I R A S A C R E 
A8NER-DOU8LEIIIAY 
8 E T W E E N .;:.E-r.EH-R;-t"\'~"l!" ....Ptw;RI!:Y L A T I N S AGREE DLR•REAM 0 0 U 8 L E S~~A
N 0 A R 0 S 
DADO.WAS ANDES 
liEN S E 0 !_§_ A C 
0 L 0 E N C A S E 0 
"l!"DI'!O"'U~8Hii'-L1-i-E N E G lA T I V E 
P U R S E  N 0 0 E  A 0 E N  
I 0 L E R  E V E L  L E N S  
'  N E E 0 S  0 A 0 A  E S T E  



Campus 
•12:
1S p.m. -Lecture, "South Africa: The Christian Response to the Continuing Crisis," Dr. Peter Walshe, ND, CSC Coffeehouse. 

•12:
1S p.m. -Faculty Seminar, Theme: New Di­rections in Industrial Relations, Hayes Healy Board Room. 

•2 
p.m. -Presentation, "Conscientious Objection­What Does it Mean?" Margaret Garvey, University Ministry, CSC Library. 

•2:30-S
p.m.-IncomeTaxAssistantProgram, ACCArena. 

•4 
p.m. -Basketball, ND Women vs. Dayton, ACC Arena. 

•4: 
I S p.m. -Seminar, "Intertextuality and the Cul­tural Text in Recent Semiotics," Prof. Leonard Orr, ND, Room 131 Decio. 

•4: 
IS p.m. -Lecture&: Panel Discussion, New Directions in Industrial Relations, Room 122 Hayes Healy, Sponsored by College of Business Ad­ministration. 

•4:20 
p.m. -Physics Colloquium, "Quark-Gluon Plasmas and How To Make Them," Prof. Larry McLerran, University of Washington, Room 118 Nieuwland. 

•4:30 
p.m. -Microbiology Seminar, "Stress Ac­tivated Regulation of an Unusual Disctyostelium Transposable DNA Element," Dr. joseph Cappello, MIT, Room 278 Galvin. 

•4:30p.m.-SigmaXIMeeting, 
Upper Lounge, Uni­versity Club, All Members Invited. 

•S-7 
p.m. -Senior Formal Bid Sales, SS6. 

• 
S -7 p.m. -Senior Formal Table and Room Reservations and Flower Orders, LaFortune and LeMans. 

•6 
p.m. -Toastmasters Meeting, Room 223 Hayes Healy. 

•6: 
IS p.m. -Circle K Meeting, CSC. 

•7 
p.m.-Canned Goods Food Drive, At The NO/Marquette Basketball Game, Sponsored by World Hunger Coalition. 

•
7 p.m. -Basketball, ND Men vs. Marquette, ACC Arena. 

•8 
p.m. -Concert, Richard Luby, Guest Violin Reci­tal, Library Auditorium. 

•8 
p.m. -RASTA Meeting, CSC. 

•9:30 
p.m. -Film, "The Silent Scream," CSC, Sponsored by ND/St. Mary's Right to Life, Free. · 

•9:30 
p.m. -PhillyClub Bus Sign-ups, LaFortune, S72. 

•9:30 
p.m. -Sophomore Pre-St. Pat's Party, After the Marquette Game, Free Refreshments & Videos, LaFortune, Sponsored by Sophomore Advisory Council, Free. 

•11 
p.m. -Mass &: Reflection, "What Has Lent Meant to You?" Sr. Jean Lenz, Morrissey Hall Chapel, Sponsored by Lyons & Morrissey Liturgy Commissions. 



The new S.A.B. Record Store 
ROCK DULAC RECORDS 
First Floor LaFortune 

Tapes Albums Tickets O~EN MON -FRI: 1:00-5:00 239-5213 

LOOK 





INTO 
) 



DARBY'S 
..._..iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii• in the basement of LaFortune 






Rehder-Butler bout provides thrills at Bengals 
ByJOE BRUNEITI 
Sports Writer 
Sometimes the best things don't come until the end. In the case ofthe semifinals oflast night's 55th Bengal Tom Berens seeing stars and teeter· ing against the ropes at the end of the third round. Marshall "By the Law" Rodgers was the one with the bloody face, but he got the best of Berens and won by unanimous deci· lillie's head that started the blood flowing. Collins, however, didn't get out of the fight unscathed, and by the third round his face looked as bad as Lillie's. It took a 3·2 split deci­sion to give "Smokin" the win. 

in the first round that sent Simmons reeling, and the referee gave him a standing eight. By the middle of the second the crowd was on its feet as the two boxers exchanged endless blows. Simmons delivered some 
"It felt pretty good," said Antrobus. "1 wish I had a little more wind. I felt like I was getting hit a lot harder than in the first fight. It's going to be weird fighting a good friend." 
Bouts, the best fight didn't come un­sion. tough combinations, but "Wolf' Antrobus was referring to friend
The 155-pound division saw a pair

til the end. But it was worth the Jim Priola isn't graceful, but he fought on relentlessly. Tom Hardart, the number-one seed,
of upsets as number-one seed Ted

weight. gets the job done, as was eyident by "I was conecting on some of who won unanimously over Steve
Gradel lost to Jeff Anhut, and Ed

The Tom Rehder-Dave Butler his third round TKO of Pat McCor· them,"said Simmons. "I was too Freschi. The Freschi·Hardart bout
Reilly beat number-two seed Pat

bout took place in the ring, but for mick in the other I40-pound semi· slow; he was countering too quick. was all Hardart from the start.
Gee. After a rather uneventful first 

all practical purposes the super· final. At the end of the first, Priola He was a better fighter, and he had a Grant Gallus is a mean character
round, Reilly took Gee to the ropes

heavyweight match should have knocked McCormick down, and height advantage." In the third, in the ring, and now not only Greg
and delivered blow after blow to

taken place on the south sitle of from there on it was Priola's fight. Simmons got Gavagan against the Rowe knows. (Rowe was given a
Gee's head.

Chicago In an alley. There was no Priola won, but by the end his face ropes, but it was Gavagan's counter· TKO at the 3I-second mark of the
Bengals veteran Dan Watzke han·

bobbing or weaving. There was no looked like a piece ofraw meat. punches that came out on top, and first round in his match with Gailus
died freshman Tom Cummings

finesse. Instead, there was just a lot In the 145-pound championship Simmons got his second standing in the quarterfinals.) Gail us beat up
rather easily, and Watzke's experi·

of hitting · the kind you'd see in a the two top-seeded boxers will eight of the match. At the end, Sim· on Tim Lyons enroute to his semi· 
ence showed as he dominated the

barroom brawl. meet. Ed "Munster" Kelly will face mons was resting on the ropes and final win. In the second, Lyons got
bout.

"I wanted to use style," said Reh­Tom "the Bull" Lezynski Friday in the crowd gave the boxers a stand· caught in the corner and Gallus
"I thought 1controlled the fight,"

der. "But the technique got lost what should be a dandy. Kelly had ing ovation. keyed off on his opponent. He was
said Watzke. "I got in a lot of good 

once the battle started." no problems in defeating Ed Bor· "About IO of his punches just given a standing eight. By the end, a
combinations. He was a tough com­

From the opening bell one knew It neman to earn the right to fight in stunned me," said Gavagan. "I was Gail us' barrage left Lyons wondering
petitor. I'm expecting a tough con­

was going to be a slug(est. Rehder the championship. Borneman was seeing stars." where he was. 
test (Friday)."

delivered barrage after barrage of given two standing eight counts Don "Transpo" Antrobus won his Dave Packo beat Kevin Hamer in damaging right hooks to Butler's before the fight was over; one came Watzke was referring to his bout second straight match by TKO with the other l 75-pound fight. head. And these blows weren't after Kelly wound up and landed a with Ed "Wolf' Gavagan, who his decision over Denny Coleman in Jim Vignone took the easy route proceeded by any fancy moves; Reh· right hook to Borneman's head. defeated joe Simmons in the other the first bout of the 165-pound divi· to the heavyweight finals. He der just wound up and let her rip. Lezynski will be attempting to win I60-pound fight. The Simmons· sion. In the second round, Coleman there due to a forfeit byJohn Uhll. Butler got his share in too. But by the his second Bengals title when he Gavagan bout was a barnburner was given a standing eight, and by the other heavweight bout, 
end of the third round, Rehder's steps into the ring Friday. "The Bull" from the first bell until the last. the third round he was staggering Sassano used his height advantage rights became too much and tht" ref· · used his devastating left to win a Gavagan dealt up some mean blows from Antrobus' blows. beat Ken Munro unanimously. eree gave Butler a standing eight split decision over Tom Newell. In count. the third, Lezynski got fired up and 
Rehder won on a split decision. sent several flurries to Newell's 
Men's track team performs well in 
He will fight Pernell Taylor for the head, and at the end of the round a championship on Friday. devastating left hook left Newell Although Rehder appeared to be seeing stars and prompted the ref· 
track championships over weekend 
getting the best of the fight, the eree to give a standing eight. sophomore didn't seem to think so. Boxing club member Mike Latz, ByMIKE SZ¥M.ANSKI finished third in the 400 meter dash second place in the long jump. 
"Oh, I got the best of It?" he com­the number-one-seeded 150· Sports Writer in 48.25. "He was capable of qualifying mented. "He whaled on me more pounder, was upset in the first bout Pearcy placed sixth in the 500 me· year, and that was a great jump," than a few times." of the night at 1 50, as he was Mitch Van Eyken and Van Pearcy ter dash at I:03.91. The mile relay Plane. 
Although the two sophomores are defeated in a split decision by Jim led the Notre Dame men's track team of Van Eyken, Pearcy, Robert Llyod Constable reached 7·1/2 teammates on the football team, it "Ouick" Silver. Neither fighter team to a host of fine performances Nobles and Dan Shannon ran the high jump to place third, and seemed a lot more like they were dominated the match, but Latz and personal records at the IC4A In· 3:15.4 7 to capture second place, as will also go to the NCAA meet. rival gang members with something didn't connect as often as Silver did. door Championships last weekend. Nobles and Shannon did a superb Matteo pole-vaulted to a JJ<'''"u""' to settle. Number-two seed Joe "Smokin"' job by running in the 48.5 range best of 1 5· 3 to finish seventh, as 
"You'd fight like that too," said Collins came out on top ofa slugfest Van Eyken and Pearcy each had to consistently. gained valuable meet experience. Rehder afterwards, "if you kept on with Todd lillie that had the crowd run six races over two days, which James Patterson waited until his The Irish did not reach the getting hit." on its feet in the other 150-pound included trials and the mile relay. very last possible jump of his col· 
Two 140..pounders started the bout. At the end of the second, Col· Leading offthe mile relay, Van Eyken legiate career to qualify for the evening offIn a battle that left junior lins delivered a flurry of punches to ran every trial competitively. He NCAA meet with a 25·5 to take see TRACK, page 10 
... 



Both Irish teams face crucial contests at home 
Tough Warriors travel to ACC 
By MARC RAMIREZ 
Sports Writer 
The Marquette Warriors invade the ACC tonight at 
7:00 to wage battle in the continuing war of the Mid· west independents, intent on avenging Notre Dame's 63-62 victory in the Warriors' homeland on jan. 12. 
The game is the home season finale for the Irish. 
Both teams are fighting it out, along with Dayton and DePaul, in an effort to draw an invitation to the NCAA tournament, and the situation is beginning to heat up considerably. 
Notre Dame has beaten Marquette, and Marquette has beaten Dayton, and Dayton has twice defeated DePaul, and DePaul has twice downed Notre Dame. 
It's almost that simple. 
To clarify that, the Irish are IS-8 overall following Sunday's 57-50 win over Washington and 2·2 against the Midwest Independents; Marquette is 17·9 and I-3 vs. the independents; Dayton is 19·8 and 3·2 in round­robin; and DePaul is 18-8 and 3·2 in the head-to-head competition. 
Oh. And Notre Dame still has to travel to Dayton on Sunday while DePaul plays at Marquette. 
So there's quite a bit at stake here. 
"Marquette's back is to the wall," says Irish head coach Digger Phelps. "They've got to beat us and DePaul this last week. It'll be a dogfight. 
"Since I've been at Notre Dame, I think the only game between these two teams that was decided by I 0 points or more was Marquette's win back in my first season. That's the kind ofseries it has been." 
see WARRIORS, page 10 

Wotnen's team takes on Flyers 
By MARTY BURNS 
Sports Writer 
Uke a pesky bee that will not fly away, the University of Dayton Lady Flyers have been hovering on the tail of the streaking Notre Dame women's basketball team. 
This afternoon, however, the Lady Flyers will get that long·a\\<aited chance to sting and burst the Irish bubble in a 4 p.m. matchup at the ACC. 
For head coach Mary DiStanislao and her Irish squad, though, this game is the one they have been waiting for all season. With a victory today, Notre Dame ( 18-8, I I· 
I ) can clinch its first North Star Conference champion­ship, and send a final signal to the NCAA tournament committee, which is in the process of selecting its 32· team field for post-season play. A post-season tourna· ment bid from either the NCAA or the NIT would be the first tendered to the Irish since they made the jump to Division I five years ago. 
Dayton, meanwhile, cruises into the contest with a I0-2 NSC record, one game behind the first-place Irish, and will be determined to make amends for a previous 81;66loss to the Irish at the llD Arena on February 5th. 
In fact, the game appears to be shaping up as a classic. Notre Dame has won 13 of I 5, and has won a record I 0 consecutive contests at home, while the Lady Flyers have scored victories in II of their last 14 games. 
Dayton has the added impetus to turn the tables on a Notre Dame team that has upset them in all three past games in the history ofthe two schools. 
"This is the rematch," says DiStanislao. "The rematch is usually tougher for the team that won the first game. 
see FLYERS, page 10 



