

Coal bu.gs -page 7 

VOL. XXI, NO. 12 
THURSDAY,_SEPTEMBER 11,1986 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Two resident assistants lose jobs for furnishing alcohol to minors 
By MARK PANKOWSKI given a punishment that we President for ?tudent Affairs News Editor deserved." Sister Jean Lenz also attended the meetings. Two Notre Dame· resident as­Goldrick and Vice President for Petersen and DeWald said they 
sistants have been dismissed Student Affairs Father David cannot appeal Goldrick's deci­from their jobs afte-r they were Tyson were out of town and sion at the University level. ·' cited for furnishing alcohol to could not be reached for com­"It's not like student and Uni­minors at an off-campus party. ment. versity," Petersen said. "It's an 
Kurt Petersen of Keenan Hall Petersen and DeWald said they employee and employer rela­and Anne DeWald of Lewis Hall had collected money for about a tionship. So there's no mode of said they were dismissed Tues­half an hour when the police ar­appeal except the courts." 
day by Associate Vice President rived at the house, located on for Residence Life John Goldrick. the corner of Douglas and Ivy. Petersen and DeWald said the party was not particulary loud
The decision came after state About 200 people were still at excise police issued citations to the party, but few wanted to pay when the 15-20 police officers Petersen and DeWald at a Friday for a cup, they said. Up to that arrived to break it up. They said 
the long lines at the two kegs
night party. point. neither Petersen nor Petersen and DeWald said they kept the drinking under control.
Dewald believed they had done received the citations because an anything illegal, they said. Petersen and DeWald added undercover officer had watched "We made a bad judgement." that neither of them drank any them collecting and alcohol at the party. "All I had
money said Petersen. "We didn't realize 
giving cups to party goers, some that what we were doing was ille­was a glass of milk," said Peter­of whom were minors. Those gal." sen. who purchased the cups could He added that they Indiana State Police, state ex­
never then fill them with beer. thought that those at the party cise police and Notre Dame Se­Both Petersen and DeWald said curity were involved in the raid,
were underage. they thought their dismissals State excise police said they they said. were unwarranted. ticketed a large number of DeWald said when the officers 
"We know as RAs that we are arrived, the undercover officer at
minors for consumption of alco­representing the University in a hol at the party. It was unclear the party grabbed her arm and special way," sa1d Petersen. "So exactly how many, however. led her to a Notre Dame Security we agree retribution was neces­officer. "The Security guard was
Petersen and DeWald's dismis­The ObservetoGreg Slranger sary. sals mean that they must move 
very nice and reassurred me that "But the punishment they gave out of the rooms provided to Notre Dame would never find 
The annual panty raid held last night attracted hundreds of us didn't fit the circumstance," them as resident assistants, they out." 
freshmen to the Saint Mary's College campus. The freshman
he said. said. In addition, they'll no Director of Security Rex Rakow 
men pictured here seem anxious to get their hands on a
Added DeWald: "We were said that the Security officers souvenir of the night. Thewomenseem eager to grant themlonger receive free room and 
hoping he (Goldrick) would take board. were only there to observe. our character and past behavior Petersen and DeWald said they their wish. 
more into consideration." haven't decided whether they will Despite the citations, Petersen Both said they sympathized remain in their dorms. and DeWald said they still believe with Goldrick's position, Goldrick's decision to dismiss they'd make good resident assis­

Flood in Flanner Hall
however. the two carne during the last of tants. "We feel this mistake "He (Goldrick) said it was the three rneetings with Petersen would not hinder our ability to most difficult decision of his and DeWald, they said. Keenan do a good job," said Petersen. life," said Petersen. "He said he Hall Rector Brother Bonaventure But. he added, "We know the 

caused by tampering

wasn't trying to make an example Scully, Lewis Hall Rectress Chris loss of the job is not the end of of us but that we were being Mengucci and Assistant Vice the world." By CLIFF STEVENS forcefully unscrew the valve's Assistant News Editor one and one-half inches of thread.
Civilians killed as Israelis attack 
The urinal valve that came off By the time University mainte­and flooded the second floor of nance shut off the valve, water Flanner Hall last Thursday was had soaked carpeting and


Palestinian anns depot in Lebanon 
tampered with according to Don created a hole in the ceiling of Dedrick. director of the physical the first floor study lounge, said Associated Press grenades, were Arabs. cepted the guerrillas' rubber plant. Smith. The Israeli command in Tel dinghy off the south Lebanon Although the person respon­No damage estimate was avail­
SIDON, Lebanon Israeli Aviv said the pilots who carried town ofSarafand, about 25 miles sible has been identified, Flanner able yesterday. warplanes attacked a Palestinian out the Sidon raid reported ac­north of Israel. Hall Rector Brother Michael Vice President of Business Af­arms depot yesterday, killing curate hits on a warehouse used In Tel Aviv, an Israeli military Smith declined ·to name the in­fairs Thomas Mason said his of­three civilians and destroying by the Popular Struggle Front to official confirmed the infiltration dividual, saying only that the per­fice will determine how much more than 90 shops in an indus­store weapons. attempt and shootout. The offi­son was not a student. students are compensated for trial district on the edge of this But police and witnesses in cial. speaking on condition of Naming the person "Wouldn't their damaged property. Al­port city. Sidon said Israeli rockets missed anonymity, said the air raid was do anything but hurt someone," though Du Lac states that the 
Shortly before the raid, an Is­the front's two ammunition in retaliation for the attempted he said. University assumes no such re­raeli gunboat intercepted a rub­depots. guerrilla attack. Dedrick said he did not know sponsibility, Mason said his ber dinghy carrying Palestinian "It would have been a disaster A Palestine Liberation Front who was responsible. office has never taken such a guerrillas on a mission to attack if the ammunition dump blew source said that after the gun­The individual touched the hard-line approach. Israel. 'Israeli and Palestinian of­up," a police spokesman said on boat intercepted the dinghy, the urinal because it had been mal­Mason said his office has not ficials said. condition of anonymity. Israelis "called in helicopter gun­functioning . for a couple of yet received any student damage 
Hospitals said 13 oiher Another guerrilla group, the ships, which dropped flares all weeks, according to Smith. reports or claims. civilians were injured in the air Palestine Liberation Front. over Sidon and Sarafand. Our Dedrick said the person re­One student rug was consid­raid, which began just after 6 issued a communique saying the guerrillas then carne under fire sponsible "probably did it in all ered ruined because the owner's 
a.m. raid carne after four ofits fighters from the gunboat. They fired innocence," unaware of the high allergies were affected and 
It was Israel's eighth air raid in tried to carry out a seaborne at­back and changed course to pressure behind the valve. He several students' books were Lebanon this year. Israeli offi­tack on the Israeli coastal town return to Sarafand." said the persop may have been destroyed, according to Richard cials said it was not linked to Sat­of Nahariya. Sidon police said the Israeli attempting to repair the valve. Froh, Flanner Hall's second-floor urday's terrorist killing of 21 Both the Palestinians and Is­jets swooped in from the Mediter­"It was probably someone section resident assistant. Jews in a synagogue in Istanbul, raelis said one of the four guer­ranean and struck three times at trying to help the. situation," he . Froh said the students planned Turkey, which Israel has vowed rillas was wounded during an ex­the. ammunition depots and said. to file a claim for the carpet and to avenge. Turkish officials have change ofgunfire at sea, and the· other Palestinian targets in the Wrench marks on the dis­books in Mason's office. said they do not know who was Palestinians said he died later on industrial district. placed valve led Dedrick to de­responsible for that attack but shore. Hospitals said two sisters, termine tampering had caused "But it was mainly a big incon­thought the two terrorists, who The Palestine Liberation Front aged 32 and 40, and a 16-year­the accident. He also said that venience, nothing major," he were blown up by their own said an Israeli gunboat inter-old boy were killed. "no amount" of pressure could said. 

The Observer Thursday, September 11, 1986 -page 2 

In Brief Take a bite out of OC crime 
Shoves, shouts arid fiying fists interrupted a standing­room-only City Council meeting in Hialeah, Florida called to settle a swap-meet controversy, and 13 police officers had to clear to the chamber. The brawl started with shouting, then punching, as the council voted 4-3 Tuesday to allow the 

D.A.V. swap Meet in Hialeah to stay open until the end of the year. Last month, the council had voted to close the barter operation in November. -Associated Press 
Nancy Reagan will receive an award next month from Cath­olic University of America for her efforts in fighting drug abuse, a university spokeswoman said Wednesday. Mrs. 
Reagan will receive the Cardinal James Gibbons medal, which the university's alumni association awards each year to a person "for distinguished and meritorious service to the Roman Catholic Church, the United States or Catholic Uni­versity of America." In particular, said spokeswoman Anne Smith, Mrs. Reagan is being honored for "service to the na-· lion's families in helping to combat drug abuse." -Associated Press 
The University of Florida's last free source of laboratory animals, will no longer provide impounded dogs and cats. About 800 animals had been transferred to the university annually. In June, Jacksonville approved a similar ban after being pressured by animal-rights groups. The city had been sending about 900 pounds ofanimals a,year to the university. -Associated Press 

Two air traffic controllers in Anchorage, Alaska have been cleared of allegations they used drugs off duty, the Federal Aviation Administration says. Spokesman Paul Steucke said• Tuesday the investigation began in July when a Fish & Wildlife Protection officer reported seeing one of the controllers using a cocaine-like substance while on a camping trip. The con­trollers tested negative and denied using drugs, and "the whole thing was dropped," Steucke said. Beginning Jan. 2, the country's 14,500 air traffic controllers will be tested for drug use once a year as part of their annual physicals. 
Associated Press 
Of Interest 
Placement night for all finance, management, and market­ing seniors will be tonight at 7 in the library auditorium. Career and Placement Services strongly recommend that these students attend. -The Observer 
Sexual Violence will the topic of discussion on WVFI AM's Campus Perspectives tonight from 9 to I 0. Director of Residence Life and Housing Patricia Rissmeyer and Saint Mary's student Sarah Cook will be interviewed by Lynne Strand. Listeners may call 239-6400 with questions and com­ments. -The Observer 
Medical and legal issues of sexual assault will be the focus of tonight's sexual violence seminar sponsored by Saint Mary's student government. A panel discussion will speak at this free event at 6:45 p.m. in LeMans Hall's Stapleton Lounge. ·The Observer 
Dillon Hall's annual pep rally will be held tonight at 8 in front of the hall. Everyone is welcome to the event, which will feature Coaches Fazio and Yelovich, and the Dancing Irish. • The Observer 
St. Joseph's Emergency Room Volunteer Program will hold an informal but mandatory meeting for those with medical aspirations tomorrow night at 6 in Room 123 of Nieuwland Hall -The Observer 

Weather 
Looks like lightning striking 

again. A 90 percent chance of thunderstorms today with highs near 80. A 60 percent chance of thunderstorms tonight with lows in the low 60s. Mostly sunny to­morrow with highs in the mid to upper 70s. • AP 


-The Observer 

Design Editor . .... Tracy Schindele Viewpoint Copy Editor ..... Alison Design Assistant. ..... Rob Luxem k a ..................... Bob White Features Editor . Caroline Gillespie Typesetters . ........ Sean Sexton, Features Layout ... Mary Reynolds 
.............. Becky Gunderman 

Typists . ............. Colleen Foy News Editor . ..... Chris Bednarski 
ND Day Editor . ........ Bill HerzogCopy Editor . .......... Miriam Hill 
Photographer ...... Greg Stranger Sports Copy Editor Dennis Corrigan 
Tht' ObKrvt'r ( l ""P'-c;~y 2 HJOO) l"' puhli,ht·d \tont.la\ throuKh J·ru.Ja\ c:xc. t·pl llunnJ(_ exam and VOil auon Jlt"fi<H.h Tht' Obsrrver '' puhh..,hn.l h\ the.· 'HH.knl' of tht· t 111\ l"P·H~ ul :\otre Dame ilnd ~amt .\1~ ·, ( .ollt"f(t' ~uh".:np11on' ma~ he.· pun·hd"tt'll tur S~t1 pc:r \'ear ( SlO pc:-r ~mc:-,ter 1h~ \\-Till Ill( The Ob~rver, P ( > Hox. <) 'otrc.· Danu· lndtJilJ 
f(lc;.-;(, 
The O~rvrr ,.., .. mc.·mher ol The A.'i.CiiOClatt'd Press..o\11 rt·prtH...hu.uon flf(ht' Jrc.· 
ft"'W''r\·ed 
Think of the Notre Dame student who made every attempt to protect his newly bought stereo from being stolen from his off-campus residence. 
He smuggled the sleek Japanese speakers 
through the back door at midnight, so nobody 
would see them. He kept the volume of his stereo 
set at a reasonable level most of the time, so 
nobody outside could hear it. And he bought a 
huge padlock for his bedroom door so nobody 
could get to his system. 
The secrecy, the attempts to stay inconspicuous 
and the padlock didn't help. The student placed 
the box which the stereo had come in at the end 
of his driveway with the rest of his trash. Some 
fellow walked by and saw "S-A-N-Y-0" written on 
the box, and three days later his new stereo system 
was gone. 
It seems not even padlocks and window bars 
are I00 percent effective in deterring burglars 
from cleaning a house out. If a criminal knows 
there's a pearl inside, he's likely to try to crack 
the shell. 
Having a stereo system taken from your room­
-speakers, amplifier, turntable and allaoes not 
happen very frequently on campus. Once every 
30 years, possibly. But it can and often does occur 
offcampus. Those ofyou who are dying to migrate 
to the Great Land of Freedom Beyond the Shadow 
of the Golden Dome, know well that life there is 
more than keg parties and no parietals. Living off 
campus entails much more. 
Right at the top of every off-campus student's list of realistic concerns is security. Sgt. John McCullum of the South Bend Police Department said he thinks the big problem right now is the student's lack of awareness on how to deal with crime. He said most students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have never put a great deal of worry into the subject of security. At home, the parents took care of locks and keys. In the dorms, the students are still In a protected environment. 
"Protected environment" is not a good way to describe the Northeast Neighborhood of South Bend: the area in which many Notre Dame stu­dents choose to live, the area hardest hit by break­ins. 
The police do what they can to clamp down on the shifty-eyed characters who prowl the area around the Five Corners, Notre Dame Avenue, Corby and St. Louis streets. Most of these suspi­cious types are under the age of 18 and are out in the alleys instead of at school. 
Most of these individuals can whip through a residence in five minutes or less and get every­thing they want, McCullum said. They know what they're after, they know where it is and they know how to get it out in a hurry. 
In short, students in this area are living in a crime zone. But still the crime is not so bad that it can't be prevented. 
The frequency of break-ins is not high at this time--the number of reports is normal for this time of year, according to McCullum. Off-campus students that fall prey to burglars are falling prey to their own ignorance. The police are willing to inform students on the ways to make their homes safer and more secure. 


Ways such as preparing for semester breaks, installing security systems, recovering stolen ob­jects, buying the right types of locks, and becom­ing part of a neighborhood watch program. 
Ways such as getting to know the neighbors and the police themselves, and learning how to become more comfortable in the neighborhood. Ignorance is the danger factor with off-campus security. 
Off-campus students have long argued that they are ignored by the University, student govern­ment, The Observer--and that they are hated by the community and the police. A change is needed in this attitude, 
By becoming more aware of how to deal with crime, and by making others aware of the circum­stances in which they live, off-campus students can help improve an otherwise difficult situation. 
Of course getting tough on burglars won't make them go away. But ignoring them won't either. 
IAMERICAN WCANCER 
'SOCIETY~ 

unltedwau 

r----------------------------------------~--­
FONDA-U FONDUE PARLOR EXPIRES 
100 Cmter Mllhaw•k• 255·1516 12/13/86 
DIVIDEND TO BEARER __FO_U_R_DO..;....;;.;;LLA;;...,;,;;.;;.RS;.._,________$ 4.00 
This check Is worth $.4.00 off the purchase of a Total Combination Dinner for 2. Not valid with any other promotional offer. Valid Tuesday through Friday Dinner only 


Holy Cross Fathers 
VocationaiCounseUng on'campus at Moreau Seminary Notre Dame, IN 
How dol know if I have a vocation to the priesthood? 
Wat is the academic and formation program for becoming a priest? 
Wat scholarships and financial aid are available for seminary training? 
Wat are the various apostolic ministries of the Holy Cross priests? 
How do I pray if I'm thinking of a vocation to the priesthood and I'm not sure? 

Forpersonal, confidential interview with no obligation, please write orcall a vocation director Box 541, Notre Dame, IN 
46556 
For appointment, call between 8:30am & 4:30pm 219·239-6385 
Fr. Michael Couhig,C.S.C. Fr. Paul Doyle,C.S.C 

~~--~--~~~----..--~~--~~ 
Thursday, September 11, 1986 -page 3 


Cougar attacks child 
Zoo keeper Mark Yelverton, left, and zoo director Jake Yelverton back Sheeba, an 18­month-old cougar, into a cage at the Louisiana Purchase Gardens and l:oo Tues-
Insurance difficulties to hurt student events 
By JOE MARKEY sponsored activities of Staff Reporter University-sanctioned groups." Miklos said this policy leaves 
Student-organized events may student organizers of unspon­run into problems in obtaining sored events in a bind. Since the University sanction because of event would not be backed by insurance liability, according to the University, the liability would Senior Class President Dave rest on the shoulders of the Miklos. events' organizer, he said. 
Miklos recently encountered reluctance on the part of the ad­Miklos, who is in the midst of ministration to sanction a senior contacting lawyers about the class trip to Chicago's Rush problem, hopes to come to some Street. agreement whereby students 
"The nature of the Chicago who wish to participate in an trip was obvious. Of course, on event not sponsored by the Uni­a trip like that, students are likely versity would sign a waiver 
to get rowdy." release form. "This is a proce­
Although Vice President for dure already used for some class Student Affairs, David Tyson, events, like the ski trip," he said. and DireQor of Student Activi­By signing the release, the stu­ties, Joni Neal, were unable to dent would claim full respon­be reached Jor comment, Vice sibilty for his or her actions and President for_ Business Affairs, would agree in the case of an Tom Mason, said the usual pro­accident not to file suit against cedure is for the University to the University or the student or­take liability only for "University-ganizers of the event, he said. 

Superpowers discuss early release of detained journalist 
Associated Press Reagan spoke brieny to Reagan had asked Gorbachev league, Jeff Trimble, quoted KGB investigators suggested reporters following a state dinner for Daniloff's release on grounds Daniloff as saying. to Daniloff that for him to be at the White House held in honor that the U.S. News & World Authorities did not mention di­freed pending his trial "was a WASHINGTON President of Brazilian President Jose Sar­Report correspondent was not a rectly the case of Gennadiy Zak­good idea," and that what was Reagan said last night he ney. spy. harov, a Soviet United Nations needed is "a cooling-off period," received a reply 1rum Soviet Reagan's remarks left the im­Earlier yesterday Daniloff said employee arrested last month in Trimble quoted his colleague as 
leader Michail Gorbachev to the pression that an intense Soviet investigators liked the New York and indicted Tuesday saying. 
U.S request for the early release diplomatic effort was under way idea of releasing him to the cus­on three counts of espionage, Daniloff was arrested Aug. 30 of journalist Nicholas Daniloff, for securing Daniloff's release tody of the U.S. ambassador Trimble quoted Daniloff as and indicted on Sunday. If con­who is being held by th.: Soviets but he said it's "not safe to com­pending his trial on spying 'saying. victed, he could face the death on spy charges. ment" on the subject. charges, a colleague said. Daniloff's wife, Ruth, has al­penalty._ He has denied the alle­
But Reagan gave no details of He. also declined to predict Soviet authorities made clear, leged that Soviet authorities gations. Gorbachev's response, saying, "I when the issue might be re­however, that the release would framed her husband in response He made his comments in a don:t want to rock the boat." solved. have to be reciprocal, the col-to the Zakharov arrest. phone call from Lefortovo Prison 


The Observer 

Chief of Lions Club for Lebanon kidnapped in Moslem west Beirut 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -The top of­ficial of the International Lions Club for Lebanon and Jordan was kidnapped yesterday in Mos­lem west Beirut one day after an American educator was ab­ducted on his way to play golf. 
Police said three men armed with . silencer-equipped pistols and riding in a wine-colored BMW intercepted Lions Club governor Victor Kenou at 9:35 a.m. near the French Embassy compound on Rue Clemenceau. 
Two of the assailants forced Kenou out of his white Mercedes­Benz at gunpoint and bundled him into their car, police said. 
Kenou, 50, heads the 39 Inter­national Lions Clubs in Lebanon and Jordan. A Syrian-born Chris­tian, Kenou is a naturalized Lebanese citizen who runs a prosperous import-export busi­ness in both the Moslem and Christian sectors of the Lebanese capital, according to police and family friends. 
His wife, Rose, who lives in west Beirut told The Associated Press by telephone, "Contacts are under way at the highest levels to win my husband's release. I am hopeful." 
The Lions Clubs are among few social institutions still oper­ating despite Lebanon's I !-year­old civil war. 
Kenou's abduction, like the kidnapping of American educa­tor Frank Herbert Reed on Tues­day, was an apparent challenge to Syria, which sent troops into west Beirut in July in an effort to restore order and end the deadly anarchy spawned by warring Moslem militias. 
Police said they have no clues 
to either man's whereabouts. 
Reed, 53, director of the Lebanese International School in west Beirut was the first Ameri­can kidnapped in Lebanon in 15 months. A school associate said Reed has lived in Lebanon about eight years and converted to Is­lam. His wife, Fahima Dalati, was born in Syria. 
The kidnappers freed Reed's Lebanese driver a few hun~red yards from the headquarters of Syrian intelligence officers in charge of west Beirut's security plan, police said. 
A telephone caller claiming to speak for Islamic Jihad, a Shiite Moslem group espousing the teachings of Iran's Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, claimed re­sponsibility for Reed's abduction and charged he was a CIA spy. 
Syrian troops, who have been deployed in Lebanon for a de­cade, pulled out of west Beirut during the 1982 Israeli siege and did not return in force until this summer. 
Islamic Jihad has claimed re­sponsibility for kidnapping four other Americans and four Frenchmen missing in Lebanon but has said it killed one ~f the Americans and one Frenchman. Their bodies have not been found. 
Most Westerners wete driven from west Beirut by a spate of politically motivated kidnap­pings in 1984 and 1985. 


Hetland appointed as new member of Saint Mary's Board of Regents 
By Katie Sullivan 
News Staff 
Rebecca Hetland, a senior at Saint Mary's has been appointed the College's new student regent by the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 

Hetland is an active member of the Board of Regents at the College and will participate in student affairs issues and con­cerns in addition to academic and development of -fiscal is­sues. 
"I was pleasantly suprised," said Hetland, when informed of her appointment by Saint Mary's President William Hickey. "They're a lot ofqualified women that could represent Saint Mary's. I am very honored and look forward to working with all the Regents," she said. 
In March of last y~r all Saint Mary's juniors received a letter asking them to consider apply­ing for the student regent posi­tion. "We received eight very qualified applications," said Sister Karol Jakowski, Dean of Student Affairs. "There weren't any who applied just for the sake of paddingtheir resumes, it was a quality group," she said. 
Jakowski said the applicants go through a series of interviews, and then recommendations are passed on to Hickey who in turn passes on his recommendations to the Sisters of The Holy Cross, who make the final appointment. 
Jakowski was notified Septem­ber 5, and the other seven appli­cants received hand delivered letters September 8. 
According to Jakowski, the stu­dent regent must be a person who can represent Saint Mary's well. She must be one who has demonstrated thrbugh leader­ship, an understanding of and appreciation for the Catholic character of the College, as well as it's women's and liberal arts 
dimension. "Involvement is the key credential," said Jakowski. "The more involved an applicant is the more qualified she is." She said Hetland fits that category quite well. 
In addition to being a member 
ofThe Board of Regents, Hetland 
is the Liturgical Assistant for 
Campus, Ministry, the Campus 
Ministry Commisioner on Board 
of Governance, a writing clinic 
worker and Editor of the Saint 
Mary's Literary Magazine, 
Chimes. 
As student regent. Hetland 
hopes to represent general stu­
dent opinions on issues and be 
sympathetic to the needs and 
wants of the student body. "I 
have a lot of faith in this College 
and I want to see it continue to 
be a forerunner among private 
institutions and women's col­
leges as a whole," said Hetland. 

r 




ATTENTION 
Registered N.D. Organizations 
Student Government Funding Appeals 
Due Thursday, Sept. 17 Applications available in Office of Student Activities 3rd Floor, LaFortune 
Thur ;day, September II, I986 -page 4 
Tanker spills crude oil in the Delaware River 
Associated Press 
GIBBSTOWN, N.J. -A tanker spilled 150,000 gallons of crude oil into the Delaware River yesterday. The .coast Guard said it was a major spill. 
"The total environmental impact will not be determined until morning." said Coast Guard Lt. j.g. Aaron Daven­port of the Gloucester City Sta­tion. "It's a major oil spill." 
Late yesterday night. a I 0­mile oil sheen existed from the Commodore John Barry Bridge in Bridgeport to the mouth of the Schuylkill River in Philadelphia, Davenport said. The oil was expected to reach the New Jersey and Pennsylvania shores by this morning. 
The vessel, the Viking Osprey, was carrying 550,000 barrels of oil (a barrel is 42 gallons) and was docking at the Mobil Oil Co. refinery when the spill was discovered at 2:40p.m., Davenport said. The refinery is located across the river from Philadelphia. 
The vessel. which is regis-. tered in Singapore, was under contract to deliver the oil to the Mobil facility, said Mobil spokesman Edward Kolaloski. 
It was not known how the spill started, Davenport said. 
"It's quite obvious there's a hole in the ship somewhere. There's the possibility the ship touched bottom." Davenport said. 

FREE HAIRCUT-PERM-COLOR 
Women needed for Redken and Paul Mitchell Professional Hair Seminar for demonstration of the latest hairstyles 
This is your opportunity to receive a makeover by the winner ofthe 'Hairdresser ofthe Year' award 
Should be open to change Call 256-2033 for details 
Learning about yourself, dealing with problems, and growing with the changes In your life are Important parts of the Notre Dame experience. 
The Professional Staff of the University Counseling Center (UCC) 
INVITES YOU TO CONSIDER JOINING A GROUP 
The following groups will be offered to students during 
the Fall Semester: 
1. Everything You Wanted To Know About Relating To Other People But Couldn't Figure Out Alone-·This weekly confidential therapy group Is 
designed for students who are struggling with Issues such as reaching out when you feel lonely 8t Isolated, getting ciose to others and developing Intimacy, dealing with anger 8t conflict with others and balancing the need to be true to yourself with others wishes and expectations. TUESDAYS:3:3G-5 pm; Co-Leaders: Rita Donley 8t Tom Thompson 
2. The Adult Children of Alcoholic Parents group Is a confidential support group for those students whose lives have been affected by the drinking of their parent(s). Some Issues and topics that will be addressed Include: education about the disease of alcoholism/problem drinking and how members are affected; common char­acteristics of adult children ol alcoholics; learning about the process of loving detachment from the problems but not the person; methods of forming healthy attitudes and relationships; stress reduction, realistic goal-setting and assertiveness training. First Meeffng: Tuesday, September 16, 4-5pm; Leader: Sally Coleman. 
Women's Support Group--This weekly, confidential therapy group Is designed for women who would like to explore Issues related to Identity, self-esteem, Independ­ence, relationships, assertiveness, anger, Intimacy 8t self­acceptance. THURSDAYS: 3:30-5pm; Co-Leaders: Christine Conway8t RlfaDonley 
4. 
Eating Disorder Group-This weekly, confidential therapy group Is designed for women with eating prob­lems. Common signs Include: depression, low self-esteem, fear of belng/becomlng obese, unusual eating habits and a preoccupation with food. WEDNESDAYS: 3:3G-5pm; Co-Leaderi: Mary Raeker 8t Linda Monroe. 

5. 
The Grief & Loss Group --This Information and support group Is designed for students who have exper­Ienced a significant loss such as a death of a close trlend 


parent, sibling, or other family member. 
Time: To Be Arranged; ILeaders: Uncia Monroe, Laura Burns 
FOR INFORMATION AND HELP IN DECIDING ABOUT PARTICIPATING, CALL 239-7336 OR STOP BY MONDAY­FRIDAY, 9:00am-5:00pm AT UCC (3rd floor of the Student 
Health Center). 

The Observer Thursday, September 11, 1986 -page 5 


Jewish mourners pay last respects to 21 victims of terrorist massacre 
standing in front of the lectern, and Armenian Orthodox
Associated Press Israel's chief Sephardic rabbi, churches also sent representa­ISTANBUL, Turkey -In the Mordechai Eliyahu, solemnly tives. temple still stained with the read out the names of the 2 I The one-story synagogue on blood of the dead, more than the narrow Buyuk Hendek street
men gunned down by terrorists I, 000 mourners said final during prayers Saturday. near the 1,400-year-old Galata prayers yesterday for the 21 vic­Signs of the carnage Tower was open to relatives and tims of a terrorist massacre at friends of the dead, Neve Shalom
remained: blood and small Istanbul's largest synagogue. pieces of flesh on walls and community members, officials 
Women, their heads covered in ceilings, blown-out windows in and reporters. black shawls, wailed as rabbis the synagogue dome, streaks of One elderly woman entering read Jewish prayers, including black soot next to the double the temple collapsed. Others, 
one asking revenge for the death door1.of the cabinet that holds men and women alike, had to be of innocent people and another the torah, or sacred scrolls. supported as they walked into normally said during war. Outside, police linked arms to the hall. "Those worshipers who lost barricade the streets around the Under police escort, mourners their lives had not even the time 50-year-old synagogue, the larg­were bused to the cemetery, nor­
to realize and understand why est of 13 in Istanbul. About 5, 000 mally used only by Ashkenazi. or they were chosen as targets for people gathered to watch as 19 northern European Jews. The such a brutal slaughter," said Jak plain, wooden coffins were victims were Sephardim, descen­
Veissid, legal adviser to Istan­loaded onto green funeral trucks dants of those who fled the bul's,. chief rabbi. for the 6-mile procession to a Spanish inquisition in the 15th "No act of violence or aggres. Jewish cemetery in the residen­century, but their cemetery in Is­sion could have been so in­tanbul is full.
tial district of Ulus. human, so insane, so cruel," he Two of the dead were buried Relatives pounded on the 19 said in his eulogy to the victims in Israel Tuesday. coffins as they were placed on of Saturday's submachine gun Religious and diplomatic offi­tables draped with black cloth in cials from the United States, Is­
attack at Neve Shalom front of hundreds of wreaths. synagogue. "It is hard even to rael. England, France, West Ger­After a brief prayer reading, the think about the motives of this many, Italy, Greece and Sweden caskets were lowered by rope madness and barbarism." attended the funeral. The Cath­into individual graves dug side 
With helmeted riot police olic, Protestant. Greek Orthodox by side in a semicircle. 
HUGE SAVINGS ON CALCULATORS 
lil_I --;·~~§l:S".

a•••""'"'"'!~'' 
rJ/;a HEWLETT
li•sG:ICJDt~:u~ 1 ~;;:u:~Jot;;~qd:Jc::u:u:JI!l ••• . ~r.. PACKARD C!:JmDmroadODD•••­
0(:)dOc!JGGEJ~ •••illiiiiiQIIi 
EL 5400 Special Price ........... $35.00 
HP.11C Sc•entiflc ................. S41.00
ARTS &LETTERS 
El 5500 II Scientific . . . ....... 70.00 
HP-12C Financial .................. 72.00
CE 126P Thennal Printer. . .......... 55.00 
HP-15C Scientific. . . .. . .. . . . . . .. 72.00 HP.16C Programmer ............... 86.00 HP.18C New! Business Consultant. . 135.00
Mfi&,%E£Lj ...........133 
El 506P Scientific ............... 15.00 
Hf41CVAdvancedProgrammable .. 126.00
EL 512P Scientific . . . .............. 28.00 
HP-41CXAdvancedProgrammable .. 179.00
EL 5510 Financial .................. 70.00


BUSINESS ·:=: 
821 04A Card Reader . .. .. . . . . . . . 139.00
EL 5520 Scientific .................. 70.00 
82153AOpticWand.. . .... 91.00
EL 515SSofarScientific . . 19.00 
82143A Thermal Printer . . ..... 275.00 
51-J! Al P ;RC .qSf:. 4~'' ,.._ J ,q~.~ .... "lv',' ,,He. 11 ~ '0 'Jl<t";:>'d' H.-11( ~l~ '1-10 
')f,j' -,• pi I ~p -l L' X • tO

SOCIETY 
Prog,.,m••able ...... 94.00

TONIGHT 
CASIO 
.............. 69.00 ........... 33.00 

!E:Itl:IC:>IC:::ll:::>­
O~SII::::Jt:lCI FX 115M Scienti1ic ......... $16.00
........... 85.00

Organizational Meeting for all Interested 
FX 7000G Graphic Display ... 54.00 oooooo FX3600PScientific .......... 19.00 ::::: FX451 SolarSc~ntific ........ 21.00 
........... ········ 30.00 

In Joining 
-~ 
••••• FX8100ScientificwithCiock .. 30.00 ••••• FX90CreditCardScientific ... 19.00 FX 995 Solar Scientific ........ 27.00
September 11 
FX 4000P Scientific .............. 31.00 CM 100 Scientific/Programmer ...... t6.00
124 Hayes-Healy .A'~ 
CALL TOLL FREE 800-621-1269
7:00 pm #'"~~ 
EXCEPT IllinOIS, Alaska. Hawaii 
Accessories discounted too. MasterCard or VISA by phone or mail. Mail Cashier's check,
Questions? Call 283-1075 ..1,.;J~~~'· 
MoneyOrd., Pers. Check(2 wks to clr). Sorry noC.O.D.'s. Add $4.00 1st item $1 ea add' I shpg & handI. Shpts toll address add 7% tax. Prices subj to change. University/College P.O.'s Welcome. WRITE (no calls) for free catalog. 30-day return policy for defective merchandise only. ALL ELEK·TEK MERCHANDISE IS BRAND NEW, tSTQUALITY AND COMPLETE. 
>Jifi(i!~Xi£<?f(Je(;i»>II(')11Jfl!<fJ..(Ifll/f/l'f#: 
6557 N. Lmcoln Ave ~u~K-IIIIIIP"~K l·nc Chicago. IL 60645
I ·.· 
~ ~I -I ~ 4 a (312)631·7800 -(312)677·7660
I..,._J..,_..,.,._,;,-"'._,..·,-~··,.;-...,~::•;....,;,,"·'-"'-~.,-.-. -..··.'-.-'..:-....·J.._UIll-~
. · 

-~.-:..~............;..••:..~•.•"!'.........................~·......"1\:·:;.......,.., ..~••'~':·~·-·~~--•• 15-­
··------R~~t~Pv--------·
-5455
NAUGLES~ :~:!.y~::R~!!:\nruan~ 72 I 
AIR 
NAUGLES TO YOUR DORM!! 
I 
MEXICAN KI~~H~ AM~~!~:.~4 ~!~~~EN I
FORCE 
Taco 1.09 1.69 CUSTOM GRIIliD NOT STOCK PILED 
I 
Burrltoo Naugleburger 1.99
ROTC-
Bean 1.79 2.49 2 Patties with the works 
I 
Meat 2.39 3.29 double ~ Combo 2.09 2.79 Cheae 1.89 2.59 Deluxe Hamburger 1.39 
Make any burrito wet. for 50 cents!! 2 Patties with lettuce, 
P.S. Don't order macho Wlless you're ready for a tomato, mayo dressing pound of goodies! 1.19
Hamburger
When you're discussing something as important as 
2 Patties with pickle, ketchup,
Nac-A C"-1.19 
mustard, onion
your future, it's urgent that you get the straight facts 
Hove some sauce for no extra charge to spice them 
add cheese .20 
up that much more.

. . . and that you understand them. Air Force ROTC can be an important part of your future. We would like 
Macho Nacho'o 2.19 DESSERTS. Refrled beans, chtps, ~. peppers, mild meat 
Hot Fudge • Hot Canornol • Stnowbeny • 0nongo Bluebmy • Chocolate • Chary • Vanilla • Root Beer 
to outline some of the facts and invite you to look into 
sauce, spicy !J'!'!Il sauce! 
gathering more. 

It's a fact: the Air Force needs highly-qualified, dedi­
•Platter
~. Fudge Brownie .69
cated officers ...men and women. It's a fact: we need 
1.29 2.89 Paotry .69 
people in all kinds of educational disciplines. It's a fact: 
ToetadaCombo 1.59 2.09 Fudge Brownie Sundae 1.69 ChUa Ole' .99 2.39
we're prepared to offer financial help to those who can 
Taco Sandwich 1.49 2.59 
DRINK UPI 
qualify for an Air Force ROTC scholarship. 
Cblcba Sandwich 1.74 2.84 
Cold Beveregea
Get together with an AFROTC representative and 
Platter . Assortmont of sauces & side ordors. 
LHer • .94 Want H a opaclal way • just order Hl 
Pepsi, Diet Pepsi, Root Beer, Mt. Dew Dr. Pepper, Welches, Slice. Lemonade, Ice Tea 
discuss the program. We11 give you all the facts. It 
Enchilada'• (Platter of 2)

could be one of the most important talks you've ever 
Mat • 1otza SOU08 & ~ 2.00 Milk, Orange Juice also available
had with anyone about your educational plans. 
HotBewera-·.47 Coffee, Hot Chocolate, Hot Tea
CONTACT AFROTC 239-6634 
SIDE ORDERS French Frleo .99 R.trled Beano .99
#4 CMae S.rrlto A Taco 

with cbtll oauu .99 ~with Me>dcan salad, refrled boons, chill & 
Nacho Chlpo .39 
.,._.., !J.LOCaiDCIIe, sour cram & a pile of chtps. 
Gaac:amole · Fresh, Fresh, Fresh .89 So•ar Cream .25 
Eau• -for llll!fthlnll .50 
J 
Gateway to a great way of life. 
,_:;o;:;;.&'.IIWII"IIIIoiio._lllo'MIM"IIIollln.--------­




Egypt-Israel agree to meet for summit 

Associated Press 
CAIRO, Egypt -Officials an­nounced that the leaders of Is­rael and Egypt will hold the first summit meeting between their two countries in five years today after negotiators reached a last­minute accord on a formula to end a border dispute. 
The meeting between Israeli 
Prime Minister Shimon Peres and 
Egyptian President Hosni 
Mubarak is to take place in the 
Egyptian port city of Alexandria. 

They will meet less than I 2 hours after Israeli and Egyptian negotiators signed an agree­ment on international arbitration of their lingering dispute over Taba, a beach resort on the Sinai Peninsula. Mubarak had demanded a settlement on Taba before meeting Peres. 
Egypt's foreign minister, Es­mat Abdei-Meguid, said, "We hope that the upcoming summit between President Mubarak and Prime Minister Peres can end with positivity, which will help to push all efforts to reach a comprehen­sive and durable peace in the Middle East." 
He said the arbitration process itself would begin in about one month. 
Negotiating teams reached the agreement after days of intense discussions, including talks throughout yesterday. 
Mubarak's Cabinet unani­mously gave final approval to the agreement at about midnight yesterday. 
David Kimche, co-chairman of the Israeli delegation, said his government had also approved the document. 
Asked if the summit would be held today, Kimche said: "Yes. Prime Minister Peres Is arriving (today)." 
In Jerusalem, government sources said Peres was conven­ing his Cabinet for a pre-summit session at 8 a.m. (2 a.m. EDT) and would ny to Alexandria, Egypt's Mediterranean port, di­rectly afterward. 
The Observer Thursday, September II, I986 -page 6 


r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
,­
, 
Utah senator donates left kidney to long-suffering diabetic daughter 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Sen. Jake Garn donated his left kidney yesterday to daughter Susan Garn Horne in what doctors called "an ex­tremely successful" operation that left the senator "proud and happy." 
"The best of our expectations have been met and everyone is fine," said Dr. Baird Helfrich, who transplanted one of Gam's kid­neys into the senator's 27-year­old daughter in a nearly six-hour operation. 
Another surgeon, Dr. Jan Spence, removed Gam's left kid­ney after a time-consuming inci­sion which extended from the senator's back to his left rib in the front. In an adjacent operat­ing room, Helfrich implanted the kidney into Mrs. Horne, a diabetic who suffers from kidney failure. 
"The senator is awake, has a bit of a grin on his face . . . He seems very self-satisfied, and happy and peaceful," Helfrich said. The doctor added that he had spoken to Garn at length in advance of the surgery about Gam's concern for his daughter and the senator's gratitude that he was able to donate the kidney. 
"He was proud and happy," Helfrich said ofGarn, a physically fit 53-year-old who new on the Discovery spaceship with a crew of NASA astronauts in April I985. 
Tim Sites, spokesman for Georgetown University Hospital, said later yesterday that both Garn and his daughter were in fair condition. 
Senate Majority Leader Robert Dole, R-Kan., said, "Needless to say, all our thowghts and prayers are with the Garn family. This is a most generous and coura­geous act." Dole said that two of Gam's sons could have donated a kidney to their sister, but that the senator felt it was his duty as a father to do so. "This is typical of Senator Garn," Dole said. 
Sen. William Proxmire, D-Wis., called Garn "a remarkable man, a man of courage." 
While the senator awaited the start ofthe surgery, Helfrich said, Garn conversed with his doctors about science and the senator's interest in the space program. 
"He indicated he had never been familiar with a hospital. He had been in his own home for $25," Helfrich recounted of his conversation with Garn. 
"Everything went well," Mary 
Thiriot. an aide to Garn, said fol­
lowing the side-by-side opera­
tions that took about six hours. 
"I am very happy and proud to be the donor," the Utah Repub­lican had -said as he entered Georgetown University Hospital. "Her mother carried her for nine months and I am honored to give her part of me." 
Garn interrupted his re­election campaign Tuesday to check into the hospital. 
Gam's operation, called a nephrectomy, was needed be­cause his daughter, Susan Rhae Garn Horne, has suffered since childhood with diabetes. 
Gam's doctors said the senator likely would be kept in the hospi­tal for at least a week, could drive a car and resume his campaign for re-election in three to four weeks, and even go jogging within a month. 
In juvenile. diabetes, the type Mrs. Horne contracted, the pancreas quits producing insulin and sugar builds up in the body's bloodstream. A victim needs one or more insulin shots a day to compensate. However, blood sugar levels still rise occasion­ally, and the kidneys attempt to filter excess sugar from the bloodstream. 


Bigfoot? 
Ray Bloomer, who is a blind, disabled specialist for the National Park service, examines a full scale replica of the Statue of Liberty's left foot in the statue's base '" Liberty Island in New York harbor. Yesterday, was liberty Access Celebration Day. Elderly people enjoyed an access to the statue that they never had before the statue's restoration. 

Stories about suicide may cause teenagers to take own lives 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -News and feature stories about suicide, as well as television movies on the subject, seem to induce teen-agers to take their own lives, two new studies conclude. 
The research suggests that even well-intentioned examina­tions of the rising suicide rate can prompt troubled adoles­cents to kill themselves. 
Corrections 
The story about the Saint Mary's Board of Governance meeting in Tuesday's Observer listed incorrect hpurs for the However, experts are unsure what. if anything. the news media should change in their portrayal of suicide. 
"I don't think we should not tell the public that the suicide rate is going up. That would be ridiculous," said Dr. Leon Eisen­berg of Harvard Medical School. "Yet if this is fight. that may be some sort of stimulus to people who are thinking about it. I don't know what the solution is." 
Although the studies con­cluded that teen-age suicides in­crease after television news pro­grams or movies dealing with suicide, neither showed that the victims had seen the programs. 
Dr. David Phillips of the Uni­versity ofCalifornia at San Diego found that the nationwide suicide rate among teen-agers was 7 percent higher than usual following 38 television news and feature stories about suicide during the I970s. 
Dr. Madelyn Gould of Colum­bia University found that the number of teen-age suicide at­tempts in the New York City area rose significantly followinA three of four made-for-television movies about suicide that were broadcast during the fall of 1984 and winter of 1985. 
Both studies suggested that teen-agers imitate suicides they hear about on television. The reports were published in today's New England Journal of Medicine, along with an editorial by Eisenberg. 
After accidents, suicide is the leading cause of death among American adolescents between the ages of 15 and 19. Since 
1950, the suicide rate has tripled in this age group, and almost I, 700 kill themselves each year. 

Phillips' study concluded that "educators, policy makers and journalists may wish to consider ways of reducing public expo­sure to stories, both general and specific, about suicide." Gould's study saldo. "the presumptive evidence suggests that fictional presentations of suicide may have a lethal effect." 
"There is an implication that there should be censorship. I am very much opposed to that." said Charlotte Ross, executive direc­tor of the Youth Suicide National Center in Washington. 
In interviews, neither Phillips nor Gould advocated censor­ship. 
"I would be very upset ifpeople were to use my findings to pres­sure the news media to reduce coverage of certain kinds of stories," Phillips said. 
He suggested that news reports about suicides might in­clude mention of the finding that suicides often follow such coverage. This way, friends and relatives of potential suicide vic­tims, as well as despondent people themselves, could be es­pecially alert. 
Gould's study found that in the two weeks before three of the TV movies, there were 14 teen-age suicide attempts in the New York area. Afterward, there were 22. After another movie about suicide, however, there was no significant change. 
Two of the programs, includ­ing the one that had no apparent negative effect. were broadcast by CBS. 
The hardest thing about break­ of 40 performances a month, there's  read music, performing in the Army 
ing into professional  also the opportunity for travel- could be your big break. Write:  
music is-well, break­ not only across America, but possibly  Chief, Army Bands Office, Fort  
ing into professional  abroad.  Benjamin Harrison, IN 46216-5005.  
music. So if you're  Most important, you can  Or call toll free 1-800~ USA-ARMY.  
looking for an oppor­ expect a first-rate pro­ 
tunity to turn your  fessional environment  
musical talent into  from your instructors,  
a full-time perform­ facilities and fellow  
ing career, take a  musicians. The Army  
good look at the  has educational  
Army.  programs that  
It's not  can help you  
all parades  pay for off­ 
andJohn Philip  duty instruc­ 
Sousa. Army  tion, and if  
bands rock,  you qual­ 
waltz and boogie  ify, even  
as well as march,  help you  
and they perform  repay  
before concert au­ your  
diences as well If. as .sphectators. ICo~..n·a·g·...an o.r Lie.u.te····nantWtt an average --IIBfP'tt39~2.64 · · 3'""  federally -insured student loans. • Ifyou can sight- ARMY BAND. BE ALLYOU CAN BE.  

Cushwa-Leighton' Library on football Saturdays. The library will be open from 9 a.m. to mid­night. 
The story about freshmen living in study lounges in yester­day's Observer listed an incorrect title for Pat Leonardo. He is the associate director of undergrad­uate admissions. 

The Proof 
,. In 
the Taste! 

()pea Jloa-Sat 11 •• 
Pfzm.&mduncha-Salacla 
·-··­
Beer& Wine 277-ft20 Locwl........,.., 
(Nedto8••••r. 


NOW HIRING! 
Full & part time help. all positions open. Apply within at 
NOBLE ROMAN'S 
16533 Cleveland Road 




GOFROMCO~GE~THEARMY 
WITHOUT MISSING A BEAT. 





Accent 

Thursday, September 11, 1986-page 7 


1 
1 
1 1 
-~ ~ 
.,
,
ERIC M. BERGAMO testing organisms to eat the coal 
1
assistant features editor 
tar. The first step of this phase, where the researchers test basic 
Three Notre Dame researchers organisms, should be completed are looking for a microscopic or­by the end of this month, accor­ganism with a voracious appetite ding to Irvine. for coal tar. 
The second step of the phase,The organism, when found, which will begin in Novemberwill be given the banquet of a and continue for five months, willlifetime on the site of a 19th cen­involve using the organisms intury New York gas plant. 
soil decontamination studies. The third step will be to design
Dr. Robert Irvine, civil engi­a full scale demonstration.
neering department, began his search in October 1985, when he Phase two will be a limited was contacted by Niagara demonstration of what they Mohawk Power Corporation. found in the lab on the site of Niagara Mohawk had decided to the gas plant. The third phase reclaim a 65 acre site in Utica, will be a full scale, on-site NY, that was once the location demonstration. for a gas plant operated by the Utica Gas and Electric Company. Irvine is pleased with the prog­fering credible stories pre­many other remarkable writ­
ress of the experiment so far. 
sented in the comics' ers and artists who have con­"Everything looks good. The Special to The Observer medium with characters who tributed to Marvel over the
The manufacture of gas tor bugs are happy and they're 
exist in the real world, age in years? As much as ourcooking, heating and lighting left eatinA the waste." NEW YORK • Now there's a actual time, and affect the
the site covered with a thin layer whole new universe for comic of coal tar residues. In 1-975, the University gave Ir­book readers. lives of others. The first eight readers love The Marvel Uni­Irvine was called upon because vine a grant of $1,500 to devt:lop verse -and I'm sure they will he had done work sequencing a proposal on the sequencing After twent)(·five years ofcompel­titles under The New Universe for decades to come, I know batch reactor technology while batch reactor technology to send 
ling entertainment with a cast of banner -"Star Brand," "Spit­they'll agree that The New 
teaching at Texas A&M from to the National Science Founda­
complex, colorful characters in­fire and the Troubles­Universe is the new state of 
1968 to 1970. This process tion for funding. The next year, 
cluding the Fantastic Four, the 
hooters," "PsiForce," the art. You might say that
promotes the growth of harm­the Enviromental Protection 
Amazing Spider-Man and The In­
"Nightmask," "Kickers, Inc.," The New Universe is our way
less microorganisms to break Agency provided $350, 000 for a 
credible Hulk, the Marvel Comics 
down wastes. demonstration in Culver, In. Ac­"Mere,' "D.P. 7," and "Justice" of saying we're not getting
Group has created The New Uni­
Irvine and two colleagues, cording to Irvine, those projects -arrive on newsstands, in older, just better and better."
verse. 
Cl1arles Kulpa and Loyd have lead to the establishment comic book specialty shops, Ketchum, began working on the of 75 full-scale plants dealing and in select bookstores this The eight interrelated titles
Rooted in science and tech­
project in early June after receiv­with sequencing batch reactor summer as Marvel turns in The New Universe, each of
nology,-The New Universe
ing a grant of $ 150,000. technology and more than a mil­
twenty-five. which has thirty-two pages
brings comic books to a new
The experiment is divided into lion dollars in research grants for 
and a cover price of $. 75,
level of sophistication by of-
three phases. Phase one involves the University. 
have been created by many 

"When Stan Lee of the top talents in contem­revolutionized comic books porary illustrated fiction. in 1961 by creating the Fan­Leading the roster is Archie tastic Four, it was unthinkable Goodwin, editorial director of that comic books could Marvel's Epic Comics line and succeed with well-developed, twice cited as best writer by multi-dimensional charac­the Academy of Comic Book ters," explained Jim Shooter, Arts, who created "Psi-Force," Marvel vice president/editor­"Nightmask," "Mere," and in-chief and primary architect "Justice." Amoung other writ­of The New Universe. "But ers and artists are Eliot Stan's instincts were 100 per­Brown, Sal Buscema, Peter cent on target, and millions David, Tom Defalco, Ron of new readers, including Frenz, and Mark Gruenwald. 
older readers, found renewed The Marvel Comics Group, pleasure in comic books. which celebrates its twenty­
fifth anniversary as one of the Now, with the revolutionary nation's premier comic book advance that The New · Uni­publishers, is a diversified verse represents, we are communications concern reaching even greater also engaged injuvenile book heights. What better way to publishing, domestic and 
honor our creative heritage? foreign merchandise licens­What better way to pay ing, and televisiorvfeature
"Go get 'em buddies." 
homage to Stan Lee and the film production. 
There will be a meeting for anyone interested in writing FEATURES for Ihe Obsener___ Tonight at 7 p.m. in the Observer office. Contact Mary Jacoby at the Observer office, 3rd floor Lafortune, for more information.  


"ieVV~_O_i_D_t____________ ••9s6--pa-ges
Th-ursd-~.se-ptemb-eru_ 
Student Activities unfair in Rasta decision 

r 
r 
~ 
r 
r 
, 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r ~ 
r 
r 
r 
,.. 
r 
r-<"­
r 
r 
r 
r r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
,.. 
RASTA. We are Rally Against Starvation. Our efforts are directed toward African people. But now Rally Against Starvations has ben banned by the Notre Dame Ad­ministration, and we are confused. We believe our organization to be a good one, a humanitarian one, a Christian one. The goals of our group, whose members are both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, are simple: We attempt to create awareness of the issue of African famine, and we directly fund long-term development, research and localized projects in Africa. 
Last year the Rally Against Starvation held twenty-three events: twenty-three community events. We hosted guest speakers, coffee nights, masses, folk 
Lora Naughton 
guest column 
concerts, movies, afternoon rallies on the mall, an African food night, a slide show, and a show of African arts. Members of Rally Against Starvation also visited high. school classes in order to generate atten­tion and enthusiasm for our campaign. Our final event was a three band concert, featuring Dallol, which alone raised 
$2,400. 
These cultural events were successful in both portraying hopeful images of Africa (for Africa is not a colorless land, but one rich in tradition and potential) and in raising money to send to our cho­sen project -nourishment training and development in Sierra Leone. The twenty­three activities enabled us to make a sig­nificant difference in the lives of the African poor. 

We realize that as humans we must make a resolution to care for fellow humans._We realize that as Christians we hav an obligation to serve others. Rally Against Starvation is an organization which supports our committments. Now, however, in the name of Rally Against Starvation we are no longer allowed to act. Our status as an official student or­ganization has been "permanently res­cinded." We are not to raise funds, we are not to use on or off campus facilities, and we are not to advertise in the Obser­ver or through any other means. 
The decision to ban Rally Against Starvation was madejointly by the offices of Student Activities and of Student Af­fairs. The July 3, 1986 letter from Joni Neal explains the reason as a violation of the University's alcohol policy and of the State Drug laws at the May 3, 1986 Rally Against Starvation concert. Security reports to have found evidence of alcohol use and of drug paraphernalia. The letter states that officers and members of Rally Against Starvation were among the violators, though no individuals have been charged, accused, or even con­fronted by Security. Rather, actions have been taken against the entire group. 
The letter goes on to say that any uni­versity organization, according to DuLac, must be consistent with the mission of the University as a whole, whether the mission be spiritual, moral, intellectual, cultural, social, or recreational. Ms. Neal wrote, "RASTA certainly was not operating within these guidelines." 
This bewilders us. The May 3 concert was a community experience. The music was music of peace. The break which Rally Against Starvation members passed through the crowd symbolized our com­mon bond with each other and with indi­viduals around the world. Our year-long efforts clearly show our dedication to the human mission. 
We are not denying Security's accusa­tions, though the violations were out of our immediate control. But we are an ex­tremely worthwhile interest made of caring, moral people. If there was a prob­lem we are willing to face it and correct it. To abolish an entire group, a sympa­thetic cause, is unjust. 
We are unsure of the future for Rally Against Starvation. Appeals are being made, and support is appreciated. We want to be able to act once again. We are surprised by and we sincerely regret the decision of the University, but our com­mittment still stands. Now we can only encourage you, too, to continue your in­dividual efforts in aiding African relief funds. Please remember Rally Against Starvation, for the cause is a special one and it needs special attention. 
Lora Naughton was a member ofthe Rally Against Starvation 
Catholic Church policies are often hypocritical 
I came back to Notre Dame after a sum­mer of unmitigated bliss only to find that nothing had changed. I was greeted with open arms by the same old discrepancies in policy that have plagued this university since time began and will probably go on doing so until time comes to a grinding halt. 
guest column 
One of the years first The Observer's carried an article which revealed to me that God (or more precisely the Ted­Tyson duality) does not see fit to recog­nize homosexuality or any clubs based thereon because he does not consider it 
The Viewpoint 
Department 
P.O. Box Q 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Doonesbury 
right to have clubs based on sexual ten­dency (where does that leave marriage, I wonder). It is against church as well as university policy to be homosexual. Why, I hear you ask? 
The answer to that is probably that it has no procreating dimension. Surpris­ingly, according to church position, nei­ther does rhythm-method hetrosexualtiy. Even more amazing, though, is that fact that celebacy has exactly as much procreating power as homosexuality. Are priests recognized by Notre Dame and the church? In the priesthood, it is cer­tain, a particular sexual tendency is re­quired -namely none. I wonder if these two stances are consistent. 
Why is the church so concerned with procreation and the general right to life (of those unborn)? You do not hear the church taking a stand on the issue of capital punishment in the context of the right to life. It's easy to say killing a child is wrong, but what about a blood-stained murderer? While Catholics tend to agree that abortion is wrong, they very fre­quently approve of capital punishment using the pathetic rationalization that murderers are no longer human. Very weak indeed! Regrettably, the pseudo­intellectual community at ND fits riglit into the trend. Semantics have a field day at ND. Wejust gobble it up. George Orwell called it "double-think." 
Unfortunately, the contradictions don't end there. The by now famous war­memorial drove home to me a possibly more disturbing double deal. The entire right-to-life theme is annuled by another church position: the church permits 'just" wars. There is, in fact, a rather strict def­inition of a 'just" war, but this is usually only invoked when the church is threatened. How the church can maintain so adamantly that abortion is wrong, while war is not necessarily, is something which I will probably never understand? Just think for a second! It is wrong to kill 
a  fetus,  but it is right  to kill  a  man  if  
certain abstract conditions arc met.  
Homosexuality  is  wrong  because  it  

lacks the procreative motive, we are told. But, strictly speaking. homosexualtiy is not sex at all (Webster's: Sex -the attrac­tion between the sexes) as only one sex is involved. Ifit is not sex then why should we expect procreation from it any more than we do from reading or playing foot­ball? Another interesting twist in the Ch_urch's stand is that if sex (for argue­ment's sake) then an innocent kiss must be deemed immoral unless accompanied by full sexual intercourse. But sex is ille­gal on this campus. 
Now many people have every really thought about homosexuality's place in the church? Not too many, I should think, and yet there are plenty willing to volun­teer the "fact" (?) that being gay is both unnatural and forbidden in the gospels ­right on! Show me whereJesus said being gay was unnatural. This task is not as easy as pointing to some spot where Jesus lauds marriage because 
Garry Trudeau 
MOUse, aMOtl5e.11A/H£RE 15 ReVElATION:BARN&Y RJJBBLE THY 5TING? ZZIZTl Atf/1<! 13&6AT 7H& J&'50NS.' ReVELA­TION: I NeBJ A MANICURE.' 
I?&Vc.urr!ON:
CAIAI! ",."~~~ 
~VEJ.ATION: I HAVe OWNW 
I'M MIIRRIW 8I.1JW DRYeRS.' 
7VAWNAT/C.. 
/ 
0 
0 
homosexuality is not the opposite of heterosexuality as I hope I have shown. One thing does come up frequently, though, if you look, and that is the com­mandment, "Thou shalt no kill!" 
It just doesn't make any sense. Jesus forbade killing yet the church permits it if the wind is right. while Jesus did not forbid homosexualtiy even though we arc told he did. Why is the church so hypocriti­cal? You don't know'? I'll tell you why: it is because we allow it to be. We never ask questions. We arc led like sheep. Roman Catholism is not commissioned by God but much more by expedience! 
People around here live under the illu­sion that a person who asks questions is necessarily evil. But I think I'm a pretty average guy. If I ask questions about the church I must be anti-Christian. On the contrary, the reason for my questioning is that I see a huge gap between Christian and Catholic and this I find both sad and infuriating. It is sad because many who don't know better are dragged down and infuriating because many (ND students for example) who should know better are dragged down also. I'm not out to bash Catholics. In fact I believe that we must be grateful to the civilizing innuence of the Church down through the ages. Nevertheless, I feel compelled to point to what I perceive to be inconsistencies in the teachings of the Church, not out of malice, but out of hope for a better future. Euan Smyth is a sophomore science major ami a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Quote of the day 
"People living in competi­tion, all I want is to have my peace of mind." 
Boston Peace ofMind 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------. 
VieWP-Oint Thursday, September 11,1986-page~ 
Star Wars undermines U.S./U.S.S.R. trust 
The original "Star Wars" was a wollder­ful fantasy about a dashing young hero. a beautiful princess and a ragged band of rebels who through luck. determina­tion and the power of the Force defeated the Evil t:mpire. The new Star Wars is fast becoming a nightmare as a man well into his seventies. his grey-suited supporters and a fighting force of the highest tech money can buy hope to defeat what they sec as an all too real Evil t:mpire. 
Adam Milani 
a closer look 
When Ronald Reagan unveiled his Stra­tegic Defense Initiative, instantly dubbed Star Wars, in March. of 198.3, it became the source of a great deal of discussion both in the West and in the Soviet Union. Would it work'? Were the Soviets trying to do the same thing'? Would it worsen the already strained relationship between the two superpowers-? I believe that concrete answers to all these questions exist. However. I do not believe that they will be easily found if the United States con­tinues to follow Reagan's secretive policy toward Star Wars technology. Instead, we_ should seek a lasting peace by working in conjunction with the Soviets in trying to develop a system that will finally make nuclear weapons, as Reagan expressed it, "impotent and obsolete." President Reagan's present stance toward the development of Star Wars technology is that the United States should perfect it first. and only then let the Soviet Union in on what we have found. This view can 
only force the Soviets into a position of more than their ordinary justifiable paranoia and will probably lead to an esclation of the arms race both sides claim they don't want. Our refusal to bar­gain over the SDI program only enhances the possibility of this happening. 
A further cost of this policy is that in our effort to adamantly refuse answers to any Soviet questions on Star Wars we are also preventing ourselves from an­sewring valid ones of our own. One that has not I teen adequately answered is the most basic one: "Are we capable of per­fecting this technology by ourselves?" Ac­cording to a report from the Congres­sional Office of Technology Assessment the prospects of this happening are "so remote that it should not serve as the basis for public expectations or national policy." This is understandable when one considers what Star Wars is trying to do: shoot down incoming enemy missiles from what will easily be hundreds, even thousands of miles away. There are several ideas about how this can be ac­complished. Most center around the firing of a laser or particle beam through space either from a satellite or from a ground­based system which would then be bounced off renecting mirrors in space. Laser technology is the most advanced, but it has the disadvantage of needing an enormous amount of energy. A satel­lite based sytem would require that fuel tanks capable of supplying the equivalent of 60% of U.S. electricity production be launched into space. Launching a payload this large is obviously a for­midable task. but even if this proves feasible there still remains the problem of making sure that these lasers hit their targets. At present, computer and sensor technology cannot guarantee this, and 
seem to be far from doing so. What, then, can we do to make Star Wars a reality more quickly? 
According to Time magazine "Experts say, the Soviets are about abreast with the United States in producing high­energy lasers and ahead in the power sources needed ~~A. _m them. But the United States is believed to hold a sub­stantial lead in computer technology and sensors.' If this is true, I believe it would make the most sense in terms of money, manpower, time and most importantly trust for the two countries' scientists to work jointly and_ openly for solution to the technical problems of this modern method of warfare in the hope that we will someday eliminate its very need for existence. 
Trust is most important at the negotiat­ing table, and that is precisely where Star Wars is at its weakest. It simply cannot be negotiated using the methods that the superpowers have utilized in coming to past agreements. I believe that any con­ventional type of negotiation on Star Wars-~ is predestined to failure, and that the only feasible accord on the topic would be for the Soviets and the United States to agree to work together on perfecting the tech­nology. In the past both the United States and the Soviet Union have understand­ably been very cautious at the bargaining table using the ponderous "We will give a little if you give a little" style. With Star Wars this cannot be done. It is an all or nothing kind of system which Time diplomatic correspondent Strobe Talbott says, "No single component (can) be given away at the bargaining table." And if the United States decides to continue with other arms reduction talks, Talbott warns, "The Soviets are all the less likely 
to cut back on their offensive forces." This, of course, means that the develop­ment of Star Wars will become even more complicated, possibly hopelessly so. It will be argued that it may well be equally as complicated for us ever to work to­gether, but with only the madnss of the present policy of Mutually Assured Destruction we must try something. 
Trust is, of course, the key element in the search for peace. One of the oldest and most sucessful ways of promoting trust is through the exchange of people and information. As was evidenced in the recent Olympic boycotts and aborted arms talks both sides have been ex­tremely reluctant to exchange either of these two valuable commodities. This hurts both countries. People are unwilling to compete or even speak with each other have little change of ever understanding each other's backgrounds and the views they innuence, and thus, have almost no hope of ever being able to negotiate a realistic, lasting peace. The lack of infor­mation exchange hurts all people for it can cause needless suffering as new in­dustrial. agricultural and medical tech­niques which could aid many remain hid­den under a cloak of suspicion. It is because of this lack of exchange that I see another benefit to a joint effort on Star Wars. I believe that even if a consor­
tium of Soviet and Western scientists are incapable of finding a technical solution to the peace process the mere fact that they are working together on such a sensitive project will add much to it as the two superpowers will slowly learn to do something they have never done before: trust each other. 
-~Adam Milani is a junior English major and a regular Viewpoint Columnist. 
P.O.BoxQ 
•i 
-<: t 
Decision by Goldrick does not fit the crime 
Dear Editor: 
Two resident assistants, Kurt Petersen 
and Anne DeWald, were fired Tuesday 
after being ticketed at an off-campus 
party Friday night. 
As a member ofAnne's section in Lewis, 
I know this will have a very bad effect on 
several people here. Firing Anne and Kurt 
for what they did is not a punishment 
fitting the offense. 
Kurt and Anne have done so much for their halls and for the entire Notre Dame community in the past three years, and now it seems like it makes no difference. Their past behavior should have been considered in making the decision. Now how can they give to Notre Dame when it is slapped back in their faces? 
Many of us here feel that some other form of punishment would have been much more just for what Kurt and Anne did. Their "terminations" are going to 'have a strong impact across campus and I hope students will reactto this unjust treatment. Express your concerns, in writing, to the Office of Student Affairs and hope they reconsider their decisions. 
Jenny DuBrucq Lewis Hall 
Lack of Moral Justice in disciplinary action 
De,u· t:c/ilor: 
Is there Moral Justice at Notre Dame? We think not due to the recent decision which took the jobs of two responsible Resident Assistants. 
On the 5th of September an off-campus party was raided. Two resident assistants were ticketed and as a result lost their jobs. These two individuals are not only outstanding leaders and exemplary stu­dents but also ofthe highest moral quality that this University has to offer. 
In our minds relieving these students of their duties is a gross injustice to not only the individuals but to the University as well. The characters and past records of these two R.A.'s were never considered in rendering a decision. By taking these students away from their jobs both Keenan and Lewis suffer the loss of their individual leadership, understanding, and friendship. 
We understand the University feels the students should be disciplined but we also feel the excessive disciplinary action taken by the administration is sadly in­appropriate. 
Frank Publicover (Co-President) Todd Perry (Co-President) 
Brendon Judge (J-Board Chairman) 
Kevin Gleason (J-Board Chairman) 
Scott Swick (J-Board Chairman) 
Keenan Hall 
Students must decide on memorial's meaning 
Dear Editor: 
After the fence was taken down we took the opportunity to take a closer look at the newly completed "war memorial." Its meaning was unclear to us. We wondered what impression a monument of this magnitude would have on the many people who would see it. 
If it is to be a memorial to the people who have been victims of war then there should be some evidence of that. There is no plaque to convey this to casual ob­servers. The memorial seems to com­memorate the wars themselves rather than those who died. One side of the memorial reads "pro patria et pace.'' The individuals who were killed in the tragedy died in the hope of peace for the future. While it is important to remember that, it is not enough. We must go one step further. Is is not more important to strive for peace than to memorialize war? 
We cannot allow the memorial to be­come a glorification of war. Since it oc­cupies such a prominent place on our campus it shuld serve to remind us everyday that we must do everything we can to strive for peace in our world. War is not a thing of the past but a horrible reality of the present. We must take more positive steps toward achieving peace. Because life is sacred, we must be con­cerned about all life that is lost through injustice. We, as Catholic university, have to be conscious of how our money is spent in the name of peace and justice. In the future our money would be better directed toward more active peacemak­ing efforts. 
Since we, as students, had no voice in what this stucture would look like or what it would say, let us take a stand on what it shall mean for us. Let It remind us that there has been war, that men and women have died, and that we must now concen­trate on working for peace. Let us work for the time when there will be no more war memorials, but only memorials for those who have devoted their lives for peace. On Friday, September 1 2 from 2:30-5:00 pm we will hold a celebration of peace at the memoriaL We will be celebrating in our confi dence that to­gether we can achieve peace in our world. We invite all of you to join us in this celebration of life. 
Colleen Cotter Margy P{iel Amy Ziljakowski Women United {or Justice and Peace 
General Board 
The Observer 
P_O. Box 0, Notre Dams, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303  Ed•toun·Chtel Managmg Edttor  Joe Murphy Kevin Becker  Busmess Manager Controller  ... Eric Scheuermann ... Alex VonderHaar  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Un1vers1ty of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessanly reflect the pollc1es of the administration of either instllulion. The news IS reported as accurately and obJeCtively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the op1n1on of the a matority of the Ed•tonal Board. Commentaries. leiters and the Inside Column present the v1ews of thelf authors. Column  V1ewpomt Edllor Sports Ed• tor Accent Ed• tor · Samt Mary's Ed1tor News Edllor News Ed1tor  Scott Bearby Denn1S Corogan Mary Jacoby Marg1e Kersten Tnpp Baltz Mark Pankowski  Productton Manager. Photography Manager Advert1smg Manager. Systems Manager. GraphiC Arts Manager. OCN Manager  . . Chris Bowler . James Carroll Anne M. Culligan . ..... Shawn Sexton . ... Mark Weimholt ..... Francis X. Malone  
space Is available to all members of the the community and the tree express1on of varymg opi­ 

nions on campus, through letters. is encouraged. 
Founded November 3,1966 

Sports Briefs 
A pep rally to usher in the 1986 Notre Dame football season and Head Coach Lou Holtz is scheduled for Friday at 7 p.m. outside Gate 9 of the ACC. · The Observer 
A meeting has been scheduled for all returning and incom­ing men and women swimmers at 3:59p.m. Monday in the Rolf Aquatic Center. Further information may be obtained by contacting Debbie Smith at 239-5984. In addition, all past, present and future ND swimmers are to contact either Stephen Coffey (277-2766), John Ward (4639) or Christopher Walsh ( 1306) by tomorrow concerning important weekend informa­tion. -The Observer 
The South Bend YWCA is sponsoring a Run Jane Run five­and I 0-kilometer race at Saint Mary's on Thursday, Sept. 18, beginning at 5:30p.m. A fun walk will take place at the same time, and registration may be done on race day at Angela Athletic Facility. -The Observer 
A hockey meeting for anyone interested in signing up for the Notre Dame varsity team will be held tomorrow at 4 p.m. in the north dome of the ACC. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Cycling Club will hold daily group rides at 3:45 p.m., with short meetings to precede behind the Administration Building. Rides will vary in length, and tours and races are planned for beginners and experienced riders. The Observer 
All men and women interested in rowing novice for the Notre Dame Rowing Club are to meet at the main circle today or tomorrow at 4:30 p.m. prepared to run. Questions may be addressed to Patricia Warth at 283-3023. -The Observer 
The women's soccer game between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, originally scheduled for Saturday, has been res­cheduled for tomorrow at 4 p.m. on the field north of Angela Athletic Facility. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Racquetball Club has slated a short or­ganizational meeting to elect officers Tuesday, Sept. 16, at 8:30p.m. in 127 Nieuwland. -The Observer 
Thursday, September 11, 1986-page 10 
Red Sox down O's, extend streak; Mets reduce magic number to two 
Associated Press and struck out four. Roger Four of the Tigers' homers McDowell pitched the ninth. came during a six-run fourth in­A's 6, White Sox 2 ning. Chet Lemon led off with a 
BALTIMORE -Jim Rice went 4-CHICAGO · Jose RUo threw a home run off reliever Chris for-5 and drove in the three runs five-hitter and struck out I 0 and Bosio, 0-4, breaking a 5-5 tie. and Roger Clemens struggled to Donnie Hill hit a three-run homer Mike Heath followed with an his 22nd victory last night as the last night to lead the Oakland A's inside-the-park homer. Boston Red Sox won their I I th to a 6-2 triumph over the One out later, Alan Trammell straight game by beating the Bal­Chicago White Sox. doubled and then Gibson timore Orioles 9-4. RUo, 7-10, walked two as he homered over the right-field 
Clemens, 22-4, who has not 
roof, finishing · Bosio. Darrell given up more than five earned Evans drew a walk from Mark runs in one game all season, Knudson and Coles then con­yielded four in the second in­nected for his 18th homer. ning. He won his fifth straight Walt Terrell, 12-I I, pitched six decision, allowing six hits in six innings for the victory. Mark innings and walking four. Thurmond went the last three in­
Rice, who ·has 20 runs batted ninft> for his second save. in during his last 14 games, hit Chicago 8, Philadel­a home run and three singles. phia 7 
His two-run homer, his 18th, CHICAGO Gary Matthews capped a three-run first inning homered twice and Jody Davis against Ken Dixon, I 0-12. 
drove in the winning run with a Calvin Schiraldi finished up for sixth-inning single yesterday,his eighth save. 
leading the Chicago Cubs to their
Mets 6, Expos 1 
fourth consecutive victory, an 8­NEW YORK -Keith Hernandez 7 triumph over the Philadelphiaand Mookie Wilson hit two-run Roger Clemens Phillies. 
homers and Ron Darling allowed five hits in eight innings as the pitched his fourth complete New York Mets defeated the game. Keith Moreland and Bob Der­Montreal Expos 6-I last night, Pete Filson, who had been with nier added homers for the Cubs, lowering their magic number to Class AM since being acquired who swept the three-game series two. from Minnesota for Juan Agosto and set a season high for con­
Two Mets victories, two on April 30, lost his first game secutive victories. Philadelphia losses, or one of with the White Sox. Filson gave each, and the Mets win the Na­up six runs on six hits in three Guy Hoffman, 5-2, pitched 
tional League East. innings. one-third of an inning in relief of Hernandez and Wilson both Tigers 11, Brewers 7 Rick Sutcliffe for the victory. Lee homered in New York's four-run Smith pitched the final inning for
DETROIT -Kirk Gibson and first inning, off 22-year-old Ser­his 27th save.
Darnell Coles each hit a pair of gio Valdez, who was the loser in 
two-run homers and the Detroit his major league debut. Tigers tied a team record with Phillies reliever Kent Tekulve, Darling, 13-5, was pitching on I 0-4 tied Roy Face for the Na­
six home runs last night in three days' rest for the first time 
routing the Milwaukee Brewers tional League record with 846 this year. He walked three batters I 1-7. appearances. 
/he· fJI,,c•n·c·r '\111n· ll.&nu· ,,lfu.c lc~t.•llc.:d tHI the.· tlurd fl,,.,r 111 l.tltlrlllllc. "tudc.·nl ( nllc:r .tc.c.cph c. IJ'""Ilc:d .ill\ t'rll'lll).:. fr•,lll 'I .1 111 until 1 I' 111 \1t 11hl.1' 
Ihruugh I ndJ\ f he· t JIJ,,.,., «'' '.unt \f.tn ' ,,tfu. c. It tl .til d ••n tiH tlnrd fl,,.,r ,,, 
ll.tgg.tr ( Hllc.·gc.· ( c. nit r .u c. c.· pt .. c. l,,,,,lic. d' fr,,nt 1..! \tt I'm unlll ~ p m \t11n 
d.l\ llli•II~IJirHI.I\ llt,ldiHlt f,q fll\ltl.l\ 1l.l"lfHd' I'~ pt11 \JJll.i''lfltlf, 
lllll,tht. prt·p,lld nllltflllfltf"IIIIIJII\ 111,111 ( il,lf~t l']llt.tlll'(lt.JII\t lh,lf.ll
Classifieds 
ll'f' 1c:r d,l\ 
Need big S! Selling 2 Michigan GA's
I NEED MICHIGAN GA TICKETS BIG
NOTICES WANTED TICKETS PERSONALS 
and 1 student ticket. Best offer untilBUCKS OFFERED CALL: 277·3786 Friday 8pm. Call Jason at x3024. 
BAR BEAT: The Observer Accent de­Women's group at Sacred Heart needs I GOT 2 MICH GA'S.BEST OFFER BY PARENTS WILL DIVORCE ME If I don"! partment needs one student reviewer babysitter& on Notre Dame Campus WED.CALL 232-6153.ASK FOR THE come up with 2 Michigan GA's. Call
Need GA's tor all home games:Marty IMPORTANT
for the bl-w""kly Bar Beat column. every Wed. 9:15-11:45. Pays $7 per DUDE. NOBODY SEES THE DUDE. 1062 Jell at x1384. 
CILAGENERALMEETING
Mll&l be 21 or older. Application and meeting. If Interested call Valerie 233­6:30 SUNDAY. SEPT 14 at the CSC~riling samples due Friday, Sept. 12 6148. 
SSSS •.. Willing to pay SSS$ tor 2 
STUDENTS!!-Purchase your class New members welcomed! Come learn Michigan GA's!
by 5 p.m. on the features department 
I NEED MICH GA'S.272-6306 desk. Contact Mary Jacoby for more 
books at PANDORA'S and SAVE $$!! about this social concern&' ac­
Call Carle at 2855 
NeW'Used books. BOUGHT & SOLD. 3 tloM!duc. club. ORIENTATION WKD,Into. 
STUDENTS: RESTAURANT WORK, TIX WANTED. SEASON OR SINGLE. 
Day Service on textbook orders. PAN­Sept 19-20, will also be dis·
All POSITIONS, FUll TIME, PART 255-1343 AFTER 5:30. 
DORA'S BOOKS, 937 So: Bend Ave. cussed....THINK GLOBALLY, ACT LO· TYPINGWORDPROCESSING. 
TIME, FLEXIBLE SCHED. SEEKING DESPERATE for 2 Purdue GAs CALL 
ph. 233-2342. CALLY....
CALL DOLORES 277-8131. 
QUALITY PEOPLE FOR A QUALITY IN DIRE NEED OF 1 PENN ST. GA
4354 ATMOSPHERE, CLOSE TO CAMPUS. TICKET AND 1 PURDUE TICKET. 
BAR BEAT: The Observer Accent de­Does the Crew team have great buns?APPLY IN PERSON MON-SUN, 2-4 AT One Michigan Ticket G.A. for sale! CASH OFFERED. CAll JIM AT 1729. 
partment needs one student reviewer Yes. but we also have great brats.
TYPING AVAILABLE STEAK & ALE, U.S. 31 NO. Best offer by noon friday. x4016 
for the bi-weekly Bar Beat column. dogs & burgers. VIsit the Crew team
287-4082 Desperately seeking ONE ticket to Must be 21 or older. Application and concession stand near the main flagPURDUE game on Sept. 27-callHELP! I need 2 GA's for Michigan. 
writing samples due Friday, Sept. 12 pole before NO crushes Michigan.PLEASE call 283-3659 (Ron) 
BRIDGET at 3352. TYPING, TERM PAPERS, ANYTHING. TELEPHONE INTERVIEWERS. NO 
by 5 p.m. on the features department OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. 
desk. Contact Mary Jacoby for more
CAll 232.0166 EVENINGS. SELLING INVOLVED GUARANTEED. 
SSSI need MICH TIX G.A. OR STU­
Need 4 Michigan GA'a. Call Greg at CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE
Info.
54 HR.. MUST WORK 5 HRS. SAT. & 
DENT. CAll TOM 239-5954 Own a Mac and modem? Call NO's 5 HRS. SUN. WITH ADDITIONAL HRS. Macintosh BBS, MacCHEG, 283-4714, AVAILABLE. LOCATED DOWNTOWN NEED 4 GA"S FOR MICHIGAN GAME. 
1850. BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 11 :30 ­
TRADE 2 AF e S lor 2 Mlch Call Peg
after 6PM and all weekend. Settings: SO. BEND. CALL MARKET OPINION 12:30 M-P 2ND FLOOR NEW WING Christian theology contradicts
CALL TONY 1392. &'IJN, all bauds. --FREE SOFTWARE!!-RESEARCH, 282-2754, MON-FRI, 5-8 LAFORTUNE $20-$200 FOR 30 DAYS Deuteronomy 28: theological anti­287 9341 
1% INTEREST Mom and Dad want 2 Mich. GA's.
P.M. Semitism vs. the doctrine of the
DESPERATE ALUMS NEED MIC­"resurrection of the dead" taught by 
HIGAN TIX. Will PAY BIG $ ANOOR Wordprocesslng resumes, etc. ROOMMATES WANTED. TRADE PENN STATE TIX. CALL (201) RIDE NEEDED TO CLEVELAND SEPT. Jesus. Write: Michael, P.O. Box 4475, They're willing to shell out big time 
bucks. Call Brubaker -283-1722.
Typeset quality. 287-9024. male. nice house, good location. 272-245-5923. LEAVE MESSAGE. 12 AND BACK SEPT. 14 CAll JAY South Bend, IN 46634-4475. 7017 or 277-2194 '1911
NEED 3 GA'S TO AIR FORCE GAME; 
Happy 20th birthday MICHELLE
WILL TRADE FOUR ND-PITI TIX FOR Wanted: Volunteer Coach lor Gymnas­2-4 NO-MICH. TIX. OR Will BUY 2-4 Hungry? Call THE YELLOW SUB· WOOD! You can finally kiss your CHRIS £1107
LOST/FOUND l 
tic club Team. Call Mall, 3311 NO-MICH. TIX. CAll (301) 256-2645. MARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery hours: teeny-bop years gumbye • only one Monday -Thursday 5pm-12am, Friday more year of getting Into the bars with 
I need G.A.s lor the Michigan Game.
LOST:GREEN KHAKI JACKET IN 123 WANT TO TRADE 1 MICH GA FOR 5pm-2am, Saturday 5pm-1am. Sunday a mere "hi"! Those 20 shots are
Call Jim at 2088.
NIEUWLAND HALL ON THURS AUG Drummer wamted for hard rock band. 4pm-10pm already calling your name-they'll do
MICH STATE GA'S, BEST OFFER. 28 AT 2:00. IF YOU HAVE IT PLEASE Tunes Include "Crazy Train", "Dazed you up rlght!(ha,ha.ha)
CAll JOHN OR LEAVE MESSAGE: RETURN IT. SENTIMENTAL VALUE. and Confused", "Alone Again". Call 283-1504. ATIENTION ST. MARY'S STUDENTS. 
CAll GLEN X1066. Doable or Brian at 1045 or 1026. THE OBSERVER OFFICE IN HAGGAR Edwardo, You FINALLY made It! I've 
MICHIGAN TIX FOR SALE 277-0296 
DESPRATELY NEEDED: 2 STUDENT 
HALL IS NOW OPEN FROM 12:30 TO got some spare tupperware you canneed 1 mlch. student ticket will pay
OR GA TICKETS TO THE PURDUE
HELP!!! LOST AT NAVARRE ST SAT 3 P.M. DAILY. borrow tonight! Happy 21st Birthday!! 
Lou 287-5903 NIGHT JEAN JACKET, KEYS, SMC The Sponge 1.0.,$6. CAMERA, AND MAKE-UP FOR SALE DESPERATELY NEED 2 Tickets to HAPPY BIRTHDAY Michelle Wood!! 
GAME. CALL KRIS AT 2762. 
MICHIGAN G.A.'S FOR SALE BEST
PLEASE CONTACT MICHELLE 284-MICHIGAN Game (Student or GA) Call Here's to hopln' that your day Is as GOLD CARD! GOLD CARD! Super Val
OFFER BY THUR EVE CAll 1029 ED at 288-5599
4344 THANKS!!! nice as you are. love ya, lisa and Drugs (Eddy St. next to Goodwill): 20% 10 SPEED BIKE.272-6306 Marla off school supplies, $2.00 off prescrip­
HAVE 1 MICH. GA, ACCEPTING BEST
LOST a pair of Stetson wire reading tions, and 50.80 bags of Ice thru Oct.
WANTED glasses In a brown case. I have not TV RENTALS -LOW SEMESTER 20 GA'S lor SMU, Nov.&. Call x2683 1 Town & Country liquor (T&C Shop­done any homework since I lost them RATES. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, PAR 3! PAR 3! PAR 31 ping Plaza): Special on Miller lite case B-29. Call Mark at 234-8568 Will make FORMERLY COLOR CITY 272-5959. OFF-CAMPUS NITE AT LEE'S RIBS and all Wine Coolers 
OFFER !I CAll TOM AT 1633 TIL FRI. 
FOR SALE: Michigan State(2) Tlx. Call It worth your effort. Joe at 312-664-6140. MUSIC BY PAR 3111 4 pak, 2 liter Need 2 U of M tlx. Call 287-0260 leave 
number.
FOR SO. BEND'S LOWEST FRI., 9112 9pm BE THERE! thru Sept. 23 WATERBED PRICES VISIT CHEEPER 
Need 2 Alebama tlx. Call 287-0260 Need tlx lor Michigan game. Four 
HAT&TIE
SLEEPER WATERBEDS ON THE COR· NEED RIDE OR RIDERS TO MSU
leave phone number. recent graduates suffered through
FOR RENT NER OF MAIN & MCKINLEY IN MIS­GAME. CALL 3470 7pm TO 9pm.
four years of Faust and would like to
HAWAKA. COMPLETE WATERBEDS I NEED 2 Michigan G.A.'s. No? Then HAT& TIE 
see a winner. Please help them out. 
STARTING AT $99.95. OUR PHONE £ how about just one? Call Peter-1712 Stonehenge !
Call Murph at 2687.
Efficiency ap). private antrance good IS 256-0462. WELCOME BACK! GO Druids unite! Soon the moon will be HAT&TIE neighborhood utilities paid 288-IRISH! I NEED MICHIGAN TIX you got em? lull
I GOT 2 MICH GAs BEST OFFER BY
0955<255-3684 Ill pay WELL 4 em. call BRAD 3454 Equinox Is closer than you think. HAT&TIE IS HERE
FRI Lv MESSAGE 288-8199 CRAIG 
RECENT GRAD MOVING TO L.A. NEED MICH. G.A. OR STUD TICKET.
House lor rent. One mile north of NEED TO SELL CAR "68 NOVA w' '75 HOWARD HAll'S 10TH ANNUAL
Desperately In need of 2 Purdue GA's.
CAll D.Z AT 1441
campus. $12&maoperson. 3 bdrms. ENGINE, GREAT FOR INDIANA INTERESTS ARE AT ST. MARY'S AS BASH IS HERE
Call Margaret 284-4388.
Call 674-6595 after 5 p.m. WINTERS, $400 OR BEST OFFER, REPORTED IN THE SEPT. 10 ISSUE FRIDAY, SEPT. 12 CAll TOM OR Bill 232-4352. OF THE OBSERVER. MY ACTUAL &
LOU WANTS YOUIII to sell me Mic­
!• 
higan tickets at your price.
BED 'N &REAKFAST rooms lor par· MOST SINCERE INTEREST LIES IN BUSES LEAVING FROM MAIN CIRCLE 
Will pay big S and give little slater. SSS$$ lather will kill unless I get him
ents on football special weekends. '74 MONTE CARLO FOR SALE CALL 109 WALSH -THE HOME OF MY 4 AND HOLY CROSS, SMC 
2Call Joe at 3588.1 4 michigan GA'a. sava Troy 232-8627 
Call 1-219-291-7153. 283-2002 FAVORITE LADIES! W!l DAVE EVERY 20 MINUTES 
I ~ 

Belles drop 2nd, 3-0 
By JANE SHEA 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's soccer team lost its third game the season last Tuesday to Kalamazoo Col­lege, .3-0, dropping Saint Mary's record to 1-2. 
Kalamazoo took an early lead in the game, scoring twice in the ftrst half. 
The Belles were never able to get themselves going after they 
fell behind in the first half.  
"We  were  frustrated  by  
(Kalamazoo's early lead,"  said  
Coach John Akers.  

Saint Mary's was unable to score, but there were many close attempts like the ones made by sophomore Ellen Boyle. 
Kalamazoo added one more in the second half while continuing to frustrate the Belles. 
Despite the fact Saint Mary's was unable to score they did play a splendid passing game and junior goalie, Patty Hatfield came up with some god saves to keep the lead from increasing. 
"We are working on our pass­ing game and will be improved when we play Kalamazoo again in three weeks," predicted Akers. 
Saint Mary's takes the field again on tomorrow against Notre Dame. 
Queen's-Castle & The Knights $6student $8.50 cum 
cut style 

(behind Subway Sanclwk:heo) 

S AWAY FROM CAMPUS 272-0312 277-1691 DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 
We aleo feature tbe Royal Bronze Suntanning Center See a ten In •lnute• . .. Not Hour• 


The Hammes Notre 
Dame Bookstore and 
Our Sunday Visitor 
Press cordially invite 
you to attend a 
reception and 
autograph party to 
announce Dr. Ralph 
Mcinerny's new book 
entitled "Miracles: a 
Catholic View". 
Date: Thursday, September 11 
Time: 1·3 P.M. 
Place: 2nd Floor Book Dept. 
---~---------~--------­Thursday, September 11, 1986 -page 11 


Dwight Evans, Ed Romero and Dave Hender­son greet Rich Gedman after hitting a game­winning homer last Monday night. All the 
Boston tries to hold off history 
Associated Press 
Darn those Boston Red Sox. 
Just when it was time for a final-month free-for-all in the American League East. the Red Sox wrecked it. 
With a I 1-game winning streak through yesterday, Boston holds its largest lead of the season, eight-and-a-half games over second-place Toronto. 
Now, it appears the Red Sox may have to hold offonly history. 
Baltimore was not able to catch them. Nor was Detroit. The New York Yankees surged, them stumbled, and are 11-and-a-half games back. 
Ever since the Red Sox moved into first place on May 14, the 
rest  of the AL  east  has  been  
waiting for them to fold.  
Everyone  knows  they  were  

supposed to-in the last 12 years, five Boston teams have led at the All-Star break and none of them has won. And who could forget the double-digit collapse in 1978? 
But this is a different brand of Boston Red Sox. The Red Sox, traditionally con-

Ironwood liquors 
1725 NORTH IRONWOOD ROAD 
SOUTH BEND. INDIANA 46635 \2i9J 272~7144 
THURSDAY: 18 and OVER NIGHT! 
We give it to you Exactly as you expect itl 
Music to suit ALL tastes 
1600 ft. dance floor 
4000 watts of sound 
Open 9:00pm · 2:00am 
------~----------------------­~o(\ Col.f. 
r,o\) $1.00 off entrance fee ~o~ 
sidered a bunch of bruisers, rank near the bottom of the league in home runs. They could wind up with their worst standing in that department in 25 years. 
Cleanup batter Jim Rice is choking up and hitting to the op­posite fteld. The Jim Rice? 
"Last season, I couldn't see the 
holes in right. This year, I can 
see holes there big enough to 
drive two trucks through," said 
Rice, batting .330 with 17 
homers and a team-leading 95 
RBI. 
The biggest difference is pitch­ing. particularly the Cy Young year of Roger Clemens, breezing with a 21-4 record. But does everyone realize just how good Boston's pitching has been? 
The Red Sox are within a few 
hundredths of a run of leading 
the AL in earned run average. 
Boston has not done that since 
1916, when the star of the staff 
was a pudgy left-hander named 
Babe 
It is pitching. along with a fa­
vorable schedule, that the Red 
Sox believe will carry them to 
their first division championship 
since 1975. Boston plays its final 
1 0 games at home, three each 
against Toronto and Baltimore 
and the final four against New 
York. 
On the road, the Red Sox play 
three games this weekend in New 
York and three more the follow­
ing weekend in Toronto. 
Boston has won four of seven 
games against the Blue Jays this 
season and 13 of 20 in the last 
two years. 
Dennis "Oil Can" Boyd, despite his off-the-field episodes, is 14­
9. Bruce Hurst has won 10 games and Tom Seaver is still pitching well. Calvin Schiraldi, acquired in a trade that sent Bob Ojeda to the New York Mets, has overcome arm problems and has become Boston's stopper since being recalled from the minors seven weeks ago. 
Boston has also kept itself ahead this season by beating up on the weaker AL west. After going just 40-44 against West teams in 1985, the Red Sox pul­verized the other division this year with a 5 1-33 mark. 
Only once this year did Boston weaken, when it went .3-I 1 at the end of July. That's when the other teams made their moves. 
The Orioles pulled within 2 1h games in the ftrst week of Au­gust. When Baltimore fell off the pace, the Yankees got within 3'h games. Two weeks later, the Tigers broke a season-long malaise and climbed within 4'h. 

Thursday, September 11, 1986-page 12
The Observer 
Experience keys ND kicking game 
By PETE GEGEN be there this season. made 15 of 16 attempts in the Sports Writer "We probably did'! practice as 40-49 yard range. much as we should have last Carney will also be the kickoff 
Experience and execution. season," he said. "But things are specialist, a position he has held Those are the two key words for working smooth now. I'm since his freshman year. Notre's Dame kicking game this looking forward to a good special Although Sorensen was very 
season. teams." consistent last year, he had to 
Both senior placekicker John Sorensen will be the holder for ward off a challenge from junior Carney and senior punter Dan Carney, and freshman Tim Grun­Vince Phelan to get the starting Sorensen are noted for their con­hard will be the snapper. The nod for the Michigan game. sistency. Carney currently holds synchronization of these three "The consistency there really the school record in field goal players will determine whether and truly scares me," Holtz said percentage (. 732) and is only I 0 Carney will return to the form of of his two punters. field goals away from becoming his sophomore season, when he Sorensen best outing last the all-time Irish leader in that hit I 7 of 19 field goals and was season came against Purdue. He category. Sorensen averaged a perfect 25 of 25 on point-after kicked 9 punts for a 47.2 yard 
40.2 yards on 58 punts last year, tries. average, including his career rarely getting off a bad kick. "I can't think of anybody who best of 57 yards. 
The other key, execution, was is going to give you a better Much will be expected of sometimes missing from the chance of making it than John Sorensen this year, as Assitant special teams last season. Car­Carney," said Head Coach Lou Coach Mike Stock noted that the ney, whose field goal production Holtz. competition for the job con­fell to .600 last season ( 13 of Carney is also noted for his ac­tinues to be on a day-to-day 22), believes the consistency will curacy from long ranges. He has basis. 
at right. 
For Sale: Series ring 
Associated Press 
EVANSVILLE, Ind. -Nestled in the classified section this week in The Evansville Courier is a tiny advertisement. For sale: 1961 Cincinnati Reds World Series ring. 
The ad sits there, like a dia­mond in the rough, between other ads for used bicycles, chrome dineUe sets and a chest­type freezer. 
Karen Stewart is asking $4,500 for the ring. which once belonged to her father, the late Elmo Henson Jr. 
Henson was a scout for the Reds. He got the ring from Pete Whisenant, who batted .200 in 28 games with the '61 Reds. Whisenant had trouble cracking an outfield that included league MVP frank Robinson, Vada Pin­son and Wally Post. 
It was the only World Series ring Whisenant collected. His major league career ended after thaf '61 season. So the gift of the ring was a warm statement of his friendship with Henson. 
Mrs. Stewart said she believes Whiser~ant currently lives some­where in Florida. 
"Pete and my father were very close," Mrs. Stewart said. "It started out during spring train­ing in Florida. My father was a real personable fellow, and never hesitated to walk up and talk to people. Over the years, he and Pete became real good friends." 
But now, 13 years after her fa­ther's death, the unemployed mother of three is hoping to sell the ring. 
"I can't wear it, except on my thumb maybe," she said. "And to be honest, we can use the money." 
The World Series ring is only a small part of her father's major league memorabilia. He in­fluenced some big sports names, including long-time pro football star and Evansville na­tive Bob Griese. The family has a letter from Griese, thanking Henson for his support and en­couragement. 
and to a lot of people too," One 

IRISH GARDENS 
Plant Sale 
All Plants sox off See Us Now (basement Lafortune) For the Best Prices in Town! 
A New Software Product that will Launch You onthe Road to Success! 
• 
Comprehensive-covers every type of exam question 

• 
Screens with hints, review material and fully exolained solutions for hundreds of problems 



• Timed tests simulating actual exam conditions 
• Instant feedback and personalized score analysis 
• 
Quick reference manual with review sections, memorization tables and glossaries 

• 
These techniques,designed by MBA's, have helped improve students' 


scores by as much as 250 points!! IBM-PC version in 5 diskettes. Apple lie version also available. Price: $99.95 (Includes postage). See your local dealer or contact: 
C§l Comwell Systems, Inc. Phoenix, AZ 85080 P.O. Box 41852 (602) 869-0412 

of my primary goals this year is drives and tied a Notre Dame to cut down on the number of record with I 0 straight comple­interceptions. The touchdowns tions. will come by themselves." Belles didn't see any action 
during the season but was im-
Andrysiak, entering his third pressive if inconsistent during season, has been challenged by the spring session. Rounding sophomore Steve Belles for the out the quarterback roster are number-two slot. Andrysiak was Junior Tom Byrne, who saw just 35-of-61 for 542 yards, three over six minutes of action last touchdowns and one intercep-season, and sophomore Pete tion last season. At one point last Graham. If Beuerlein falters, season, Andrysiak had led the there won~t be a lack of candi­
_..,.._____
lrish to the endzone on 8-of-12 dates to replace him. 


~UABLE COUPON VALUABLE COUPON 
JUNIORS Interested in working on 
JUNIOR PARENTS 
WEEKEND 
Please pick up an application in the student activities office (3rd floor-LaFortune) or room 121 Breen­Phillips. All applications must be 
returned to Student Activities Office by 5:00, Friday, September 12. 
JUNIOR PARENTS' WEEKEND 
John Carney will once again be the Irish placekicker this season. Pete Gegen previews the kicking game in his story 
Beuerlein 
continuedfrompage 16 
cornplcll'<l I 07 passes on 2 14 attempts for I, 335 yards. But while those numbers were impressive, his ratio of three touchdowns to 13 interceptions was not. 
"(The interceptions) have definitely been the biggest dis­appointment to me personally 


.---------------~-.------.---~-------------·---------------~-----------------­
The Observer Thursday, September 11, 1986-page 13 
·l 
l j 
I 
l 
I 
j 
I I I I I 
Colts' Hand not satisfied with play 
Associated Press quarterback Tony Eason. He and we're going to work towards wants to do better this week that" said Hand. against Miami's Dan Marino. 
INDIANAPOLIS -Jon Hand, far "As they say, he is the best in The Colts have lost to the Dol­from satisfied with his NFL debut the league," said Hand, a starter phins in their last I I meetings with the Indianapolis Colts, is at right end. "And I like that and in 16 of their past I 7 games. looking to Sunday's game at myself because it's a personal Miami as a personal challenge. challenge. It would do me a great "We just have to keep a posi­
"You can't get down on your­honor to get back there to him tive attitude and go into Miami self. You just have to keep plug­a couple of times." with the attitude that we're going ging." says lhe 6-foot-6, 280-to win that game. We have to try 
pound rookie defensiye end. In last week's 50-28 loss at San to keep nothing from deterring Diego, Marino hit 64 percent of us from it" said ljand. "We have Hand, the Colts' No. I pick and his passes for 290 yards and tojust go at it from start to finish the fourth player chosen overall three touchdowns, but he was ... just go crazy out there." in this year's college draft, had sacked four times for losses of I I tackles, including two unas­29 yards. The Colts managed Hand, who totaled 234 tackles sisted stops, in last week's 33-3 only one sack, by Donnell in his college career at Alabama, loss at New England. Thompson, against the Patriots. said the Colts were unable to ac­But he had no sacks and wasn't complish what they tried to do even credited with pressuring "The thing is to win as a team, against the Patriots. 
Rockne Memorial Schedule Fall1986 until fall break and Spring break until May 1987 Building open for activities: Mon. -Fri. 7 AM to 11PM Sat., Sun. lOAM to llPMID 
Recreation Swimming: Mon. -Fri. 7: 15 ­9:00AM, 12:00-3:30, 5:30-ll:OOPM Saturday Noon ­6:00PM, 7:00-11:00PM Sunday 1:00-6:00, 7:30-11:00 PM Fr. Lange Weight Room (upstairs) Mon.-Fri. 3:00 -lO:OOPM Sat., Sun. Noon ­6:00PM Family Hours: Immediate members of students, faculty, and staff: Sun2-5PM A valid I.D. Card must be presented for use of the Rockne Memorial. r~:c•J For further information call 239-6321  

................... 

ounsefine Voluntee~ Needed!II 
Students needed to staff the information tape service 
"' " / /
of the university Counseling Center for a two hour time 
block· 1 day a week, Monday-Friday, between 4-12pm. 
"' "' / / 
~ /
If interested, call Mary Raeker or David Seid (239-7336). 
v 

The most exciting
fewhours 
you'Dspendallweek. 
Run. Climb. Rappel. Navigate. Lead. And develop the confidence and skills you won't get from a textbook. Enroll in Army ROTC as one of your electives. Get the facts today. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 
Interested? Call Lieutenant Flanagan or Lieutenant McKnight 
239-6264 
ARMY RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAININC CCIRPS 


Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 


"You know, I bet your kids and Bruno would like to go outside where they'd have room to really play." 
Campus · The Daily Crossword 

007 Week Continues· From Russia With Love 
$%.00 
Eng. Auditorium Sponsored by the Student Activities Board No Food or Drink in Aud. 
I p 
• 
S~orts 
I 
k 
I 
I I I I 
I 

Thursday, September 11, 1986-page 16 
Beuerlein tops depth chart; Andrysiak, Belles stand 2nd 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN 
Sports Editor 
The biggest controversy surrounding 
last year's football team on the field had 
to be the quarterback situatidn. Steve 
Beuerlein was bothered by a shoulder in­jury he sustained against USC which ren­dered him ineffective at times. Terry Andrysiak filled in for Beuerlein in last season's Navy game and spearheaded the Irish to a 4 1-I 7 victory. 
From that moment on, the arguments over who should start raged. Both saw action in the last four games of the season, but neither was effective in the losses to Penn State and Miami. 
At the beginning of spring drills, the quarterback question rose again. Would Head Coach Lou Holtz go with Beuerlein, the drop-back passer, or the more mobile Andrysiak. 
This year, the question was answered quickly. Beuerlein, showing signs that he was completely recovered from the in­jured shoulder, solidified his starting po­sition by the end of the spring drills and has maintained it this fall. Holtz, mean­while, has professed nothing but confi­dence in his senior starter. 
"I really have a lot of confidence in Steve Beuerlein," Holtz said at his weekly press conference. "I don't know what's going to happen in front of 60,000 people, but he's only made one bad deci­sion in practice this fall when we've been in team, and that was (Monday). 
"He has an excellent arm and a good touch. He's very intelligent -a good leader. He does the little things the right way. I think Steve Beuerlein is a fine, fine passer." 
Beuerlein enters the 1986 campaign as Notre Dame's leader in career comple­tions with 322. If he attempts 19 passes and and throws for 96 yards, he'll take over as the career ·leader in those categories as well. Last season, Beuerlein 
see BEUERLEIN, page 12 
t 
I 
I Question marks abound for fall Irish baseball squad 
I 
TERRY LYNCH 
~ 
Sports Writer
I I I 
If Irish head coach Larry Gallo I were to symbolize the 1986 I season, that symbol might just I take the form ofa question mark. 
"''m not much of a prognos­r 
ticator, so if you want to talk to me about the season, come talk to me on May I0," said Gallo, who will lead his team onto the diamond at Jake Klein Field this weekend. On Saturday at IOa.m, the Irish will play a game against former Irish players before for­mally opening the fall exhibition season against Bradley in a doubleheader at I p.m. Sunday. It will mark Gallo's seventh season as the Irish head coach, who will be using this fall to im­prove on last spring's 22-28 record. 
"Fall baseball at Notre Dame is the equivalent of spring train­ing in the majors," said Gallo. "We play I 0 games, all on the weekend, and intrasquad games during the week. We want to develop situational baseball and work on the fundamentals." 
Aside from a host of uncer­tainties, one bright spot for the Irish this season is that the basic offensive and defensive players on the team remain intact, which should be bad news for Irish op­ponents. Last year, the Irish hit opposing pitching at a consistent and powerful .31 I clip. Senior John Loughran, who broke the Irish single-season hit record 
(69) on his last at-bat of the '86 season, anchors an offensive at­tack that also includesjunior Pat Pesavento, senior Scott Rogers, and senior captain Ken Soos. 
"Youthful enthusiasm in so far as hitting is concerned can really carry it for the team," explained Gallo. "I have guarded optimism about the hitting. We've only been practicing for two weeks, so it's hard to tell. But I haven't seen a team hitting as well as this team since I've been here. They've still got to bear down and work on things, though." 
After the hitting, even the guarded optimism runs dry for the Irish. The team has a load of problems to work on this fall, the biggest of which is pitching. In last year's roller-coaster season, no one group exemplified the lack of consistency on the team than the pitching staff. The loss ofveteran and consistent slaffers Brad Cross, Mark Watzke, and Steve Powell to graduation only make the problem more acute for Gallo. 
"Kight now I have 19 pitchers, and all 19 will get an opportunity 
to pitch. We don't have an expe­
rienced pitching staff, and we 
weren't consistent last year. 
There were also a few arm prob­
lems. For instance, Kevin 
Chenail was not I00 percent last 
season, and he and Paul Mauk 
both had operations over the 
summer. 
"But as far as I'm concerned, 
it all starts on the mound. If we 
have some good pitching, it 
helps the whole team. The 
pitchers know that they're on a 
team that can score runs for 
them, but they've got to get it 
going by pitching consistently." 
The Irish also suffered from a 
plague of mental errors last 
season, but Gallo, who normally 
goes at length about such prob­
lems, attributed most of the 
problem to injuries. 
"We had people in there last season who were hurt or inex­perienced. They thought about their mistakes. But mental con­centration has to be a lot better, has to be. The team realized it had a frustrating season, but sometimes you have to get knocked down' before you can get up. 
One big change for the team when they start the season in March is that they have dropped out of the Midwestern Collegiate Conference, thereby making any NCAA berth a tall order for the new independent. 
''I'm disappointed, but it was an Athletic Department decision and I respect it (dropping out of the MCC)," said Gallo. "An inde­pendent in collegiate baseball needs 40-45 wins to be consid­ered for a tournament berth. Just ask Clemson. They had an excel­lent team last year and didn't make it to the NCAA's." 
Attitude will be key to Irish grid turnaround 
Right now, Notre Dame is down. But from these ashes a phoenix will emerge; a new Notre Dame, a better Notre Dame, will come back to its place in 
college football. 
Those might not be the exact words, but Notre Dame fans may recall them nevertheless. They fell from the lips of someone who knows, pe~haps better than anyone else, where Notre Dame has been and where it should be. They also catl)e at perhaps the low-water mark in the history of Notre Dame's great gridiron tradition. 
Ara Parseghian, the former Irish head coach and CBS-TV's commentator-on Nov. 30, 1985, stated those soothing words to all the dazed Irish fans who were witnessing the waning seconds of Miami's 58-7 humiliation of the Irish in the last game of last year's season. 
Most people by that point in the game had already turned off their sets, but as Parseghian was saying those words, almost mockingly the camera was showing the dejected and battered Notre Dame players straggling around in anticipation of the final gun. 
The general attitude of the team was one factor 
Holtz felt would play a major role in his effort to turn 
the Irish fortunes around. 
"The players have all worked very, very hard, but 
I'm not sured how how much confidence they have 
that they can win.," Holtz has stated. "I don't know 
what their attitude will be the first time adversity 
strikes. These are questions that concern me." 
The ultimate answer, of course, will come Saturday 
when the Irish players will attempt to put the past behind them and begin anew. And don't think for a moment that the fans, especially the student body, can't make a difference in how the players will respond to the situation. 

Marty Burns 
Football Notebook 
"The fan support means so much to us,~· said senior free safety Mike Haywood. "Maybe they don't know it, but when you come out of that tunnel you get chills up and down your spine. You realize you're notjust here for yourself but for everyone-the fans, the alumni and the Notre Dame family. That's what it's all about. Really, you feel like you have 13 men on the field -the bench is the 12th man and the fans are the 13th man." 
For the fans, it may be tough to get excited about a team that has seemed to let them down too many times before. Most of the student body was in gram­mar school when the Irish were last a national power and have only been told to expect greatness every year by the media and coaches only to feel in the end as though they had been duped. 
But the Irish have proven throughout the spring workouts that they deserve the support. If they get it, just maybe they will prove one prognosticator named Parseghian to be right. 
• 
There is a striking similarity in the situation Notre Dame finds itself in this year and the one in which Michigan found itself a year ago. When the Irish went into Ann Arbor last season, they were the favorites over a team that was coming off one of its most disappointing campaigns in memory. 
The starting quarterback was recovering from a broken arm that some felt was not good enough to use in college football anyway. An untested sopho­more tailback was going to be the rushing game. Inexperience prevailed over the offensive and defen­sive lines. Many questioned whether the team had the desire to put the program back on the winning track. 
The Wolverines surprised Notre Dame Hrst and then the rest of the country in rolling up a I 0-1-I record and a final spot at number-two in the national polls. 
• 
For those of you who wonder what it takes to be the football coach at Notre Dame, or for those of you who just want to hear someone else echo a common campus lament. Lou Holtz has something to say. 
"I just have absolutely no social life whatsoever," he says. "I get up about 5:30 in the morning and come in to start our staff meeting from 7 to 12. At one o'clock or so, I get ready for practice. After prac­tice gets done, then I look at film and go home around 9:30. 
"Then from I 0-I 2 or so, I prepare for the next day's meeting. I don't find it boring or difficult. Ijust don't know how to do it any other way." 


