Off-campus pets -page 7 

Notre Dame prepares for 'strategic moment' fund-raising campaign 
Victory party 
Approximately 200 students greeted the bus canying the Notre Dame basketball team as they returned homefrom their victory in Syracuse Saturday night. Above, Ken Barlow, team captain, is swanned as be climbs off the bus. Right, Coach Digger Phelps and senior jim Dolan address the crowd. The Irish upset the Oran­gemen in the Carrier Dome, 85·81. Game details appear on page 16. 
By MARK PANKOWSKI 
Assistant News Editor 
Notre Dame administrators have been working behind the scenes for the past 20 months on a fund-raising campaign which they hope will be larger than the five previous cam· paigns combined, administrators said. 
The campaign, set to end in December of 1990, is still in its early stages, during which campaign leadership and large contributions are sought, accordingto Vice Presi­dent of University Relations William Sexton. 
The campaign has been titled "Notre Dame: A Strategic Moment," according to Assistant Vice Presi­dent for University Relations Ric· hard Conklin. 
In a speech on Oct. 2, .1985, University President Father Theodore Hesburgh revealed the campaign and its goal to faculty members. 
"... We are embarking on a sixth (campaign), larger than all the ot­hers put together," Hesburgh said. 
The money raised from the cam­paign, which would total more than S295 million if its goal is reached, 
will be used primarily for financial 
aid, administrators said. 
Endowed chairs, support for 
research and the construction of 
women's dorms will also be funded, 
according to Director of Develop­
mentjoseph Sandman. 
Although the campaign began 20 months ago and contributions and commitments made since July I, 1985 will count toward its goal, the campaign won't be officially an­nounced to the public until May, 1987, said Sexton. 
The campaign hasn't been offi­cially announced because ad­ministrators first want to collect large contributions which, when revealed at the formal announce­ment, will provide momentum to the campaign, said Conklin. He who would not say how much had been collected so far. 

Although Hesburgh didn't divulge specific details about the campaign during his October address, he did tell faculty members that they'd be hearing more about the campaign before it was publicly announced. 
"I am sure that many ofyou will be 
see FUND, page 6 



Politicians make stink over ethanol funding 
SOUTH BEND-Support Is eroding In the Indiana General Assembly for state subsidies needed to keep the 
S186 million New Energy ethanol plant In business, an Indiana legis­lator says. 
·.,It Is clear to me that someday they will have to sell the plant," said Republican Patrick Kiely of Ander­son, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee. 
Ethanol is distilled from corn and other plants and Is used as an octane booster In unleaded gasoline. 
The plant's future Is uncertain wit­hout oncoming government sub­sidles of one form or another, said Donald Evans, vice president ofNew Energy. 

At issue in the legislature are two bills passed by the House that have been assigned to the Senate Rules Committee. Neither of the measures has made progress there. 
One· hill would continue to ex­empt gasoline blended with ethanol from one-fifth of the 5 percent sales tax assessed on gasoline. The ex· emption was adopted to 'enhance gasohol sales. 
The other would provide a direct subsidy of about S7.8 million in the next tlscal year to New Energy in the form of monthly payments of 1i cents for each gallon of ethanol produced. 
After assigning the bills to the Rules Committee, Sen. Robert Gar· ton, R·Columbus, Senate president pro tempore, said it was his under­standing that the subsidies, which have been paid since the plant bega11 production 15 months ago under authority of previous legislation, were due to expire July 1. 
Garton said he is opposed to direct subsidies and that "either et· hanoi has caught on in the market or it hasn't." 
Evans said his·company believed it would receive state support for the next fiscal year beginningJuly I. 
"If we had known we would not be supported by the state for two years we would not have located in Indiana," he said. "We thought we had a good-faith commitment from Indiana." 
Reasons for continued subsidies were cited by New Energy President Barry Dlrenfeld In a letter last week to Mutz. 
He cited decreasing oil prices, which make ethanol less com­petitive in price, and cheaper lm· ported alcohol from Brazil. 
New Energy also is losing revenue from the sale ofdistillers dried grain, a high-protein livestock feed and by­product in ethanol production, Direnfeld said. Prices for the by· product have dropped from n 80 a ton in 1981 to $921ast year, he said. 
That large decrease more than of­tset the savings gained in declining prices New Energy pays for corn for its plant, he said. 
Even with continued state sub­sidies, New Energy would suffer a net loss of $853,000 to S4 million in the next fiscal year, according to figures Direnfeld prc:sented to Gar· ton. 
Former contras leader blasts CIA for methods, views in Nicaragua 
By DAN McCULLOUGH 
News Editor 

When the Nicaraguan contras allied themselves with the Central Intelligence Agency, it was one of the worst things that could have happened to the contras cause, ac· cording to Edgar Chamorro, a former contras leader. 
Chamorro, who spoke last night in front of approximately 300 people in the Memorial library auditorium, said he split with the contras cause because of .the growing lnftuence ofthe CIA in the Nicaraguan Democratic Forces (FDN), the contras group he co· founded. 
Chamarro said he struggled with the CIA's methods and philosophy toward the Nicaraguan situation. He told the story of a CIA agent who arrived dressed entirely in black who called himself the "priest ofdeath." 
"He thought he was the priest of death, but they nicknamed him 'the umpire,' like in baseball," he said. · 
"One of the first things that really surprised me was when I found out that we were killing prisoners as policy," said Cham­moro. 
Another thing that disturbed him, he said, was the manual for guerilla warfare that the contras put together with the cooperation of the CIA. "Morally, it was of­fensive for me . . . . That manual was recommending that we FDN train our people to hire profes· sional criminals, to kill selected people. And one of the things that really shocked me was there was this paragraph about creating mar­tyrs." 
"It was planned. It was pre­planned in cold blood," he said. "That meant some of us had to go In the process." 
Another problem Chamorro said he had with the CIA was that their intentions and those of the FDN's were not the same. 
"Your Intentions, objectives and motives must be similar, must match with your partner in a politl· cat joint venture. What objective? To overthrow the Nicaraguan government. But you could not say that." 
Instead, Chamorro said that American interests forced the FDN to comply to a policy of duplicity. "We were going to overthrow the government of Nicaragua. But we cannot say that in public. There was an element of duplicity. And the duplicity was that we were supposed to talk to the press and the Congress in different terms." 
But Chamarro said he could no longer go along with this, and in November, 1984, he decided to go public. "In this speech, I said our purpose was to overthrow the San· dinista government," he said. "I realized that the moment I was giving my personal opinion, the moment I was getting the wrong kind of feedback from the people in Washington," he said. 
Soon after that, Chamorro said, he knew the situation was wrong and he had to do something about it. 
"I thought I was a very con­servative person, but my group moved so much to the right that now I am called a Sandanista agent . . . just because I dare to tell the story, and because I want to say that If we are going to help Nicaragua or Central America It has to be out of honesty. People don't trust politicians, much less politicians who are being paid by America to prowl around," he said. 
"There is very disgusting manipulation. There are people out there who have created the policy that is not very clear in the objective, the Interest and the motive," he said. 
Chamarro said he is now opposed to the policies of the con­teas, and,is working toward finding other solutions to the Nicaragua problem. 
"1 believe there are other al­ternatives like diplomacy, like political pressures that should be used. I don't believe Nicaraguan people should die in this futile policy that has not even been defined," he said. "This policy has not worked so It must be im­mediately stopped." 
"Right now I am trying to find the political solution to the Nicaraguan conflict," he said. 

r 
r 
The Observer Monday, February 10,1986 -page 2 

In Brief 
Winnie Mandela said yesterday her imprisoned hus­band Nelson Mandela, inspirational leader of South African blacks, will be released, but she did not know when. She told reporters, "I do not have the slightest idea when or where he will be released, but he will be released." It did not appear that the 67-year-old guerrilla leader, who has been serving a life sentence since 1964 for plotting sabotage, would be freed for days, at least. -AP 
The crown of Miss Garlic was bestowed on 
Patricia Gorrasi over the weekend. She was named queen of Garlic 
Fest II with a spray of champagne and a shower of petals from the 
"love bulb." Gorrasi, 49, dazzled a three-judge panel with her 
painted garlic jewelery and spicy answers in the question portion of 
the contest. She deemed the title an honor, explaining with ll shrug, 
"Hey, I can't be Miss America." -AP 
Marilyn K.linghoffer, whose husband was mur­dered by Palestinian hijackers on the cruise ship Achille Lauro and who later became active in the fight against terrorism, died yester­day ofcancer at the age of59. She had been in Lennox Hill Hospital in New York for about two weeks and had been diagnosed as having cancer in 1984, said Letty Simon, a family spokeswoman. -AP · 
"Blue baby" procedure pioneer, Dr. Helen Brooke Taussig, will get a chance to meet one of her early success stories this week. The 87-year-old doctor will hear Samuel Sanders perform Tuesday at the university's Peabody Conservatory of Music in a recital in her honor. This will be the first time she has met Sanders since 1947 when he had the operation at age 9. "I wouldn't be performing if it were not for Helen Taussig," Sanders said. -AP 
Ron ReaganJr. opened the "Saturday Night Live" show this weekend with a little "Old Time Rock'n Roll." President Reagan's son starred in the opening skit by dancing in his briefs, romping through the White House and playing a broom like a guitar . in a takeoff from the movie "Risky Business." -AP 
The mystery-meat of college folklore is not on the menu at a University ofIllinois dining room. Instead, it's likely to be chateaubriand for two, served by candlelight, with fresh flowers on the table and classical music in the background-at least once a week, anyway. Each Friday, students scramble for a chance to eat at a tiny restaurant in Allen Hall called Reservations Only. The check: $4.50 plus a punch of their meal ticket (worth about $1.10 ). -AP 
Batman and Robin may not have been a hit at the Keenan Revue but they did draw a crowd when they swung into action in Indianapolis. Adam West and Burt Ward donned their costumes to portray the Dynamic Duo once again at a car show Saturday. West, now 57, and Ward, 40, appeared with the Batmobile and signed autographs for about three hours. .,AP 
Of Interest 
Meet the candidates running for student body and class officers at Saint Mary's at an election forum tonight. The three candidates for student body office at the College will field questions from a panel ofObserver editors at 7 p.m. in the gameroom ofHaggar College Center. All students are encouraged to attend to learn more about their choices for elections, which will be held Wednesday. 
-The Observer 

Weather 
If you think chapped lips, runny noses and frostbitten fingers are neat, then you'll love today's weather. It will be partly sunny and cold with a chance offlurries. High in the upper teens and low 20s. Mostly clear and colder tonight. Low from near zero to 10. -AP 



Volunteering to help others: a calm in the eye of the storm 
The Career and Placement Office everyday is a Grand Central Station of future-hunting seniors, ranging from the confident to the frantic. At the Freshman Year of Studies Office, only its inhabitants' slightly younger faces differentiate it from the seniors' stomping ground. In the library, the middle classes are squirming and sweating under a pile oftextbooks and term papers. 
As students spin around and around, bouncing from class to interview to lab to dorm to dining hall to library, the Administration Building swells with talk ofcolossal fundraisers, student body diversity, and the constant tug-of-war between teaching and research. Money needs to be generated for new classroom facilities and an automated library and dormitories and .... 
This tornado ofgrowth and progress touches down a few times and wreaks havoc with such ideals as the Uni­versity's mission and its Catholic identity. 
One afternoon last September I needed to find respite from this funnel ofacademia. I was searching for 
an idea to fill this space and I ended up near the library reflecting pool. I looked for inspiration in the trees, in the cracks of the sidewalk, even at the bottom of the pool where there was not­hing but slang etched in dirt. 
Several ideas passed through my head, but none stayed around long enough for me to grab onto it. When I had just about given up on finding an idea in this sector of campus I noticed a young man, another student, walking in my direction from the Library Circle. He had with him a small child, about four or five years old. The boy was oriental and the 
( 
( 

Sarah Hamilton 
Editor-in-Chief 
know. Problems of astrophysics and Aristotle were being analyzed. Students were questioning existential philosophy and the balance ofpower in Latin America. 
But on the outside, another student was using the building to teach a very simple lesson: top and bottom. He was sharing his language and his time with another person. 
This student may participate in the Big Brothers-Big Sisters program, or NCAA Volunteers for Youth or any number ofservice oriented organizations, or none at all. 
The point is that this Notre Dame student had jumped out ofthe collegiate tornado to give of himself for someone else. 
Father Hesburgh remarked about his stu­dents' generosity and social consciousness in an inter­view that appeared in the Oct. 17, 1985 edition ofCat­holic New York. "We have 2,000 students working in various programs all over town, programs that help people in one way or anot­her. And about 10 percent of our graduates volunteer a year or two of their lives for some kind of public service," he said. 
"They've (the students ) gotten the message that you've got to be a part of the community, even if it's only temporary," he continued. 
Whether the students finally have grasped a message ofresponsibility, or simply have grown to realize an un­complicated sense of priority is an issue that can be debated. But the fact remains that students are caring. 
Later that afternoon I saw the student and the boy leaving the library. The former probably had taken his small friend to the 13th floor so that he could show him the whole campus, this institution of higher education. The college student may have been carrying the boy on his shoulders, but it was the latter who was saving his teacher from the tornado. 
Notre Dame student obviously was trying to teach him English. The two stopped in front of the library, directly under the mosaic. 
"Top, that is the top," the young man said squatting down to the boy's level and pointing to Jesus on the library wall. 
"Top," the boy repeated. 

"You are at the bottom," the young man patted the ground as he spoke. "Do you want to go to the top?" "Top," the boy said again. The couple then straightened up and walked out of 
my earshot, toward the library. The boy tried to put his arm around the student, but he could only hold onto his leg. All the while he was looking to the top. 
It struck me then how ironic this situation was. Inside this looming structure, both a working tool and a syn~­bol of all the higher learning Notre Dame tries to stim­ulate, hundreds ofpeople were studying books written in more languages than even Father Hesburgh must 


A Religious Community of Men in the... 
HEALTH CARE MINISI'KY Committed to Christ ... 
Through a life of fraternal love, prayer and service to the sick, poor, dying and unwanted. 
• 
ADMINISTRATION • NURSING • ClERICAL • TECHNICAL 

• 
PASTORAL CARE • X-RAY • LABORATORY • ENGINEERING & MAINTENANCE • MECHANICAL WORK • PUBLIC RELA­TIONS • PHARMACY • COMMUNITY HEALTH, ETC. 


••••••••• WRITE FOR INFORMATION •••••••• 
Vocation Director, Alexian Brothers 600 Alexian Way, Elk Grove Village, IL 60007 
Name-------------------------------­
Address------------------------------------­
Ci ty_____________State•__________Zip'-----­
Age·------Education ____________.:.:Te::..l_:.:Nc:_o_______ 

.«···:~ 
"A HEALING PRESENCE" : ..............................••••n••••••nn~~~9• 11 
HOSPITAL AND HEALTH CENTERS: Elk Grove Village, ILL.ifliLabeth, N./.15!. louis, Mo./San jose, Cai.!Signal Mt., Tenn./Milwauk!!e, Wi~c ~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiRrothl'" working in till' Mi,~ion'>. in tlw Phdippinl''.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiii~=-iiii~ 

Design Editor ......,,.,,,,.,..Andi Schnuck Design Assistant.. ................. Kaihy Huston Typesetters ................................. Larry Burke 
Mary Ellen Harrington News Editor .................... Keith Harrison Jr. Copy Editor............................... Alex Peltz<:r Sports Copy Editor ......... Dc:nnis Corrigan Viewpoint Copy Editor....... Cindy Rauck· 
horst 
Viewpoint Layout...........;,.. Maria Groner 

Daily Quotes,,,,..., ..............Tom Darrow Accent Copy Editor,,,,.......... Tim Adams ND Day Editor..................... , ... Larry Burke SMC Day Editor ............ Debbie Buchanan 
Ad Design .................................. Fr<:d Nelson Catherine Ramsden Typists .............. , ...., ............ Sarah Hamilton Jodi Shellenbarger Photographer ..................... Hannes Hacker 
lbe Observer (liSPS ~99 l-~000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. lbe Observer is published by the students ofthe l 'niversity of Noue Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for HO per year ( S.lO per semester) by WTiting lbe Observer, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, Indiana 
4M~6. 

lbe Observer is a member of lbe Associated P...,ss. All reproduction rights are reSt"rvcd. 
The Observer Monday, February 10, 1986 -page 3 

~ Obocrvertrodd P. TayiO<
Go ahead, make me laugh 
Patty Mileski fights offa chuckle as a ghoulish Saturday night. Tbewinneroftbecontestreceiveda comic tempts her sense ofhumor in the StudentAc·. 125 reward. tivities Board's "We Can Make You Laugh" contest 

Hey Saint Mary's! 
Are you listening? 
Meet your candidates for student body and class office tonight at an election forum In the Haggar Center gameroom. A panel of Observer editors will be asking the questions. Be there to hear the answers on current Issues at Saint Mary's. 
Be informed before voting! 7 p.m. in the Haggar Center gameroom. 
Students to the rescue of confused taxpayers 
ByJOHN M. COONEY 
News Staff 

Some Notre Dame students soon 
will be coming to the rescue of 
South Bend residents who are 
befuddled by loopholes, dependents 
and deductions. 

Notre Dame's Department of Ac­
countancy will once again sponsor a 
tax assistance program from Feb. 8 
to April 15 at nine sites In South 
Bend, Mishawaka and on the Notre 
Dame campus. 

Several faculty member, 45 stu­
dents and 12 to 20 certified public 
accountants from eight local firms 
will participate in this year's 
program, according to Kenneth 
Milani, associate professor of ac­
countancy and advisor to the 
program. 

Students participating in the 1'5 year old program will prepare the tax returns for eligible local resi­dents. Last year, students helped file 1,600 returns generating $278,000 in tax returns. 
The tax assistance program is open to students, who have com­pleted Accounting 476, Introduc­tion to Federal Taxation. The students learned to fill out "all the federal forms and the State of In­diana tax forms," Milani said. 
Not only does the program provide a valuable service to the community, but the students par­ticipating also gain excellent ex-
BUY 
OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 

perience in dealing with tax related 
problems, said Milani. 

"The program allows students to 
apply some knowledge that they 
gained in a practical manner and as­
sist people that need their help," he 
said. 

Tim Kimmel, senior accounting 
major and a center supervisor for 
the program, said that because "you 
are actually working with real 
people with real problems ... you 
can gain invaluable experience." 
The program is different from 
classroom experience because it 
forces the student to "recognize, 
react, and respond to a variety of 
situations in a short period of time," 
said Milani. 

Although other universities h~ve similar programs, Milani said the Notre Dame program is unique in that it goes into the neighborhoods. This opens up the program to people who would not otherwise come to the university to have their tax forms completed. This is "a real hurdle for most people," admitted Milani. 
The Notre Dame tax assistance program is open to people whose . income is under $20,000 a year and to the unemployed. Those eligible and Interested should bring to the program such items as the tax package, W-2 earning forms, bank in­terest statements and a copy of last year's tax return if possible. 
Information about the times and locations of the program is availahle by calling 239-'5296. 
MOVE 
•

SUrviVOr 


The Registrar's Office has sent a mailer to each student who is expected to graduate this May. It contained the potential graduate's NAME and HOMETOWN as they will appear in the commencement program and the name as it will appear on the diploma. 
If you have not received a mailer, and expect to graduate this May, or if you would like to make any changes to either your name or hometown, please contact the Registrar's Office before February 17, 1986. 
Diploma name changes requested after February 17 will require a $10.00 charge. 
In early March, you will receive information about commencement tickets (maximum of 4 per graduate), announcements, cap and gown rentals, etc. 
Daniel H. Winicur, Ph.D. Dean ofAdministration and University Registrar 



convicted 
~lated rress 

PHILADELPHIA -A jury found a 
MOVE member guilty of riot and 
conspiracy yesterday in a confronta­
tion between police and the radical 
group that left 11 people dead and 
61 homes destroyed by fire. 

Ramona Africa, 30, was acquitted 
on 10 other counts, including ag­
gravated and simple assault, reck­
lessly endangering and resisting 
arrest. 

A common Pleas Court jury 
deliberated over three days before 
issuing the verdict. 

The charges stemmed from the 
siege in May that began when police 
tried to arrest Africa and three other 
members of the armed radical cult. 
An early-morning shootout gave 
way to a day-long standoff that 
ended when police dropped a bomb 
on MOVE's fortified headquarters 
and touched offa fire that destroyed 
15 blocks. 

Africa, the only adult MOVE mem· ber known to survive the battle, represented herself at trial. She con· tended pollee and city officials had conspired to annihilate MOVE. 
Police have said they brought heavy weaponry to the siege be­cause MOVE had threatened violence and had once before, In 1978, drawn police Into a shootout In which an officer was killed. 
Former Police Commissioner Gregore Sambor testified the bomb was intended to blow a hole in the MOVE compound's roofso that tear gas could be inserted. 
The only other MOVE member known to survive the fire was 13­year-old Birdie Africa, now known as Michael Moses Ward. 
IAMERICAN 
f~· 

·.. ·:. :.: ·:. 
,~~--­
The Observer Monday, February 10,1986 -page 4 

Th~ Obscrvrrffodd P. Taylor
It's good to be a prof 
Part of being a professor is grading papers. back in his Decio Faculty Hall office and reads Here A.]. Beitzinger, professor ofgovernment, kicks from a doctoral disertation. 
New social group seeks active role 
By MARK MELLETT 
News Staff 
In the spirit of "We are the World," the Overseas Development Network, Inc. seeks students who want to play a direct role in global development issues. 
ODN, Notre Dame's newest social concern group, was started by senior Paul Aiello and junior Sophia Twarog, with the help of Ken jameson, professor of economics. The club is in conjunction with the original ODN, which was es­tablished in Massachusetts in 1983. 
With the Catholic tradition of 

Notre Dame, ODN hopes to tap the 
resource of human compassion, 
Twarog said. She said the group is 
seeking to bring those who 
genuinely care for the welfare of ot­
hers into the organization. 
"As a Catholic university, we should be called to more than academics," says Twarog. "It's a good outlet for the need that stu­dents have to be a part of social development and welfare." 
Twarog said a unique aspect of ODN is that they actually take part in the financial development of a region in a Third World nation. Through activities such as films, lectures and dances Twarog said she hopes to raise enough money to fund a small-scale development project in an underdeveloped area ofLatin America, Africa or Asia. 
Grassroots projects already es­tablished by the ODN of Massac­husetts include tricycle making and tree planting projects in South America and Africa. 
Within the activities, the student will be orientated to the culture of the nation dealt with, Twarog said. 
"A key part ofODN is education," she said. Twarog plans to bring adv­ocates of social development to 

Comedian activist comes to ND 
By PRATIBHA TRIPATHI 
News Staff 
Using humor in the crusade for a better world, Dick Gregory will speak to the Notre Dame campus as part ofblack awareness month at the library Auditorium today at 7 p.m. 
Although not as well-known to students as the other campus speakers, Gregory is an influential human rights activist. He is also an author, lecturer, philosper, political analyst and expert on nutrition and diet control. 
His lack ofpopularity is one ofthe 

reasons Esther Ivory, chairwoman of 
Black Cultural Arts Festival, cited for 
bringing Gregory to the campus. 
"We want to introduce blacks that aren't well known," Ivory said. "The purpose is to bring people, in par­ticular blacks, who would not or­dinarily be invited." 

Gregory began his career as the first black comic to work in first-line white night clubs. From a comedian to a humanitarian, he bridged the gap between the black and the white byshattering the color barrier. 
As the '60's progressed, Gregory joined the budding civil-rights movement. Inspired by Gandhi, Gregory began experimenting with prolonged fasting in protest of the Vitnam War. 
He has fasted over 100 times, at up to 167 days, to draw attention to im­portant issues such as the plight of blacks, acid rain, and the ERA. An­ticipated topics of Gregory's speech are apartheid in South Africa and hunger in Ethiopia. 
Once weighing over 300 pounds, Gregory transformed his body to its present lean state. He became a leading advocate for a vegetarian diet and better health. Gregory focuses on individual diet and health as a common ground, a practical starting point for healing and change. 
Knowledge of his talent spread quickly and he became a regular on television, becoming popular for his one-liners. A best seller on health and nutrition, "Cooking with Mot­her Nature," is one of his eight writ­ten works. 
Spring Film Series 

a a
communtarnOI'l COfTUT'IlJniCATIOn 
0. I H f R I R f 0. I H fAIR f 
The Deportment of Communication &Theatre in conjunction with The Kellogg Institute present the first of six films in The Latin American Film Series 
Notre Dame to lecture and wants to present workshops headed by Notre Dame proffesors. 
Twarog said ODN considers itself a liason to an awareness of what is avaible in organizational work for students. Presently, 1,500 develop­ment organizations are offered. ODN can "open the door for stu­dents in the long term with inter­nships a~d job training," Twarog said. 
ODN also hopes to strengthen the quality and organizational effective­ness of campus organizations, she said. By working with RASTA, World Hunger Coalition and SOLA, the new group wants to unify the potential of the campus. 
"We have a lot of ideas," Twarog said. "Frankly, I feel we have the energy to follow through on it." 
The group's frrst meeting will be tonight at 7 in the Center for Social Concerns. 
•----------------------1 hall gtrl whose temper leads her to hilarious physical and 
verbal clashes with the new sheriff [James Stewart]. an easy go1ny n-,c:rold wtlC· pk:i.;,r" ~xer •rplury I oleo [urr(' ,..... ,_.' ""' rrt 
qu1ck :_uaw tolenf J to gun plav Tues. 7:30 
Docuf'llentarron uov" '"'"' .. "rry rucuses on the NICaraguan reVOIUft(lr I 1 "•\,.l · _ )" -'\..4:-...fil 10, SUrVIVE; If lit)~ lt....h..... v ,....: i: ,,_J.:)~1Vtj '-· : 9'..n: • ·.. -'1'1CJ •r·•'•'•1•·, 1 ressure The luctd~ anolyt1ca1 
NICARAGUA: NO PASARAN 
STAVISKY 

approach he1qhtens the tntense drama of the events that One of At~'1n l<esno1s r r ICJI"' It::<~"'''' 1rrusterpreres recounlo 
rnork the struqqle 'he oarrng 1978 raid that freed Sandintsta tnrough vanous wttnesses· accounts. the cltmattc ruin of a 
teuuer turr ruo ou1 ye lrom pnson. the confrontation between con-man turned tnternat1onal financier (Jean Paul Belmondo) 
;:>ope John Paul II ond a crowd of chanting Nicaraguans. 
An intellectually challengtng. v1sually stunn1nnli1~ Fn. 7:30 & 9:45 
All films are showr. in the Annenberg Auditorium in the Snite 
PAISAN 

Stx different sttuattons tnot aeptct reactions cf the ltaltan people to ltfe tn wartime Italy The film begins tn Sicily and moves (''0~r'?.S~i 1 tAiy nortl: th"('~ tgh 1+'JI'f +~ 'NC'JVC 'J COMCiei piClure Of Ih.;, srrlJQOie CJO(JI' :SI tyronlly. r:cvert y 0"' ·• 
. Mon. 9:00 
DESTRY RIDES AGAIN 
Marlene Dtetnch 1n net famous rote as a qutntessent1at oanr:e 
Your plasma makes adifference. 
How Is plasma different trom whole blood? 
H.J~ no OOUOtS 
aoour •t-vOOI oonatron rna<eo; a difference rne difference De­tween aDov Jeilr:l· ng a normal. awve ~re 

c:s tJenO an onvaroa Tnese oovs have a~ orsease ca11e0 toerrODIW<a. wnocn srnP'Y means that """' 
DJood camot clOt ov ·~' Tnev PI ev>OUS!v Je<J aPlet rv snenereo ~fe oecau~e the< couro 01ee0 to oea!h from a rrw-o "l>M"Y Tooav t ~ can ce 
treoteo WJth a ciO!tnQ tacrrs that the><' own DclCIJe'i oa not proouce 
And that clOtting faCtor Is taken frOm the p&asrna you donate. 

PlaSma IS tne JJQuoO t1 wn.cn01000 cell\ ai~ trans POI'!l'<l Aoo<OU'fla!E'IV hall of 01000 IS plaSma Til<' 01oo0 c~ are ~r a teo tram V().Jr O'a\fT\a at tne
HOw much plasma 

ooror center ova oroceo;s ca1Je<J o1.wnaone<esrs ano IS needed? A 101 f<7 example, one rerutnea to yCAJr ooov .,.1 or plaSma vre!Os re.s tt<an a teasooonrur or rne 1ne [)la<.ma t..en lr om ctottnQ factrs ~neeo. so you can lee vour OIOCid r; abOut tne neeo trs taroe <101umes of plaSma rust for nemo­9N m1nerats ana water. f)1111Jin AnO ~~ of \SlitS of plaSma are UII!O rnoo;r or til<' rema.naer IS t\ no50JtaiS and 
prote>ns It IS trele [)(O· 

tf\OS tnat are l..I'SeO to f!vf!fV oav ro s.ave manv ~.eo; 
emeroencv roorrrs 

Bring in this ad for a s4Bonus
New Donors ft ,. t d t•
p er your trs ona ton. 
SWEETHEART SPECIAL! 
Bring in your sweetheart for Valentine's savings! The first cut is $8, the second cut is only $4. This week only! 
"no double discounts" 







MasterCuts 
family haircutters 
University Park Mall 277-3770 
Monday, February 10,1986-page 5 
The Observer 

Tile Oblcrver!Todd P. Taylor
ROTC business 
Anny ROTC Cadet Mark Reeder and his date Kelly Harrington sport a pair ofsunglasses at the Trl-milttary Ball Friday night. The dance brought all three ROTC branches togetherfor the evening. 

CompuServe 
Informational Open House 
I 

Morris Inn, Notre Dame Room 
8:00 pm to 10:00 pm Monday, February 10, 1986 Undergraduate degrees in CAPP, MIS, Marketing, Computer Science, and Engineering MBA'S All other interested students are welcomed 

~LET THE (footlf:/mes RoLL!' WE hQve. a-ne...., MENIJ ANb Low fl(}f!ES j Spt!c-ia.l SaviNGs o/11 Mo1V'i7uES MID Wus; ·~"::. ~-,~ 
NEW! 8PAGHET71 !J~..,!Grulie~ 
~'~y OUI/ /'1£MBALLSA116t11CH, Ltd. !1etdM.Ll.J; ~ D.Jicl. cJ,uu. ~ ou~ OWN SPtt!I4L /WIISTIJ€EFw"HeREAHt :Xt-a.lion $1fuce., 0/'II()NS q,J t.ht!ut •AlL&JnJwtdta sERVE/J oN 81JifaliCN 8uN8 oltllc.-••n+J. O.ips-1~~ 
~;,:'1883, 
....,_t.JJs 
,l.•I.,J,AI·N 

free~$r.t wif;g:e,]Jvery 
~D /'lor VALli! Wml ANYfiNE~ flf'FU 

Manila vote counters walk away, claim Marcos falsified returns 
Associated Press 
MANILA, Philippines · Thirty computer operators marched out of the government's election commis­sion yesterday, claiming the ballot· counting that showed President Ferdinand Marcos defeating Corazon Aquino was falsified. 
An international observer group, meanwhile, accused Marcos' par· tisans on yesterday of vote-buying, intimidation, snatching ballot boxes and tampering with election returns in Friday's special presidential elec­tion. 
~e computer operators wept on each others' shoulders after parad­ing single file out of the Marcos­appointed commission's counting center. 
"There was something wrong," a woman operator explained. "What's posted on the tabulation board does not tally with the computer board, and we don't know who is doing it. We can't take it any more." 
The woman, who refused to give her name, told The Associated Press that workers spotted the problem Saturday night, when Aquino was leading in the commission's count by 100,000 votes. By midday yester-

Calm returns to riot-tom Haiti 
Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti · After two nights ofwild rejoicing and mob retaliation against the hated secret police of the ousted Duvalier regime, life began returning to nor­mal yesterday in this slum-ridden city of 1 million people. 
Trashed, burned-out shells of businesses that were associated with the 28 years of Duvalier family rule bore silent witness to a celebration that turned violent, killing at least 100 people and causing great material damage. 
jean-Claude Duvalier became Haiti's "president-for-life" in 1971 at age 19 on the death of his father, Francois "Papa Doc" Duvalier. He fled to France on Friday on a U.S. air Force plane with about 25 family members, guards and associates after the United States and Jamaica convinced him to step down in the face of mounting violence. 
University of Notre Dame 
Foreign Study Programs 
Tiarjin, china 

day. Marcos had taken over the lead. 
By this morning, with 28 percent of the precincts reporting, the com­mission's unofficial tally gave Marcos 3,056,236 votes to Aquino's 2,903,348, a split of51.28 percent to 
48.72 percent. 
Butanindependentcountbythe National Movement for Free Elec­tions, a citizens' ballot-monitoring group known as Namfrel, had Aquino in the lead by 5,576,319 votes to 4,806,166 for Marcos, or 
53.7 percent to 46.3 percent. 
The Namfrel tally represented 
49.14 percent of the Philippines' 86,036 precincts. Final election results from this nation of 7,100 is­lands are not expected for days. 
After the workers· 27 women and three men · marched out, tabulation was suspended. The total number of workers tabulating was not known but there were about 300 com­puters in the center. 
Victorino Savellano, chairman of the nine-man Commission on Elec­tions which operates the tally center, denounced the workers' charges as "a political attempt to sabotage our efforts." He said the commission's count is based on aut· henticated tally sheets which "are beyond doubt" and which anyone could see. 

Marcos, who initially predicted an 80 percent landslide, was hard­pressed throughout his first seriously contested campaign since 1969, when he won re-election by defeating former Sen. Sergio Os­menaJr. 
In 1972, Marcos imposed martial law, which lasted until 1981. He then won another election, but no major opposition parties fielded a candidate. Marcos has held power for 20 years. 
Marcos' latest six-year term was due to expire in 1987, but he called the special election to show domes­tic and foreign critics, particularly in the United States, that he still enjoyed overwhelming support in the Philippines. 
Certification of the election result is up to the National Assembly, which was scheduled to begin its own separate survey today. 
Citing the difference between the two counts, Political Affairs Minister Leonardo Perez said he would seek the assembly's approval to terminate all other vote-counting im· mediately. 
A military·cJVilian council assumed interim control. 
Duvalier's departure sparked riots and revenge killing against the Ton­ton Macoutes, the Duvalier dynasty's dreaded private militia. 
Reporters said Macoutes were beaten and hacked to death with machetes Friday and Saturday: 
At least 100 bodies were seen stacked in a morgue at General Hospital, but how the victims died or when they were brought there could not be determined. 
France granted Duvalier and his party temporary refuge while it searched for a country willing to of­fer them permanent asylum. Several already have refused. The French are expected to approach some of the 25 French-speaking African nations, most ofwhich rely heavily on France for aid and commerce. 
The provisional military-civilian council on Saturday annl>unced Haiti's new Cabinet. The Cabinet is expected to issue its first com· munlque today, including a date to reopen schools closed Jan. 8 be­cause of national unrest in this im­poverished Caribbean island nation of6 million people. 


The national government radio yesterday announced that a member of the new Cabinet, Minister of Justice Gerard Gourgue, formerly president of the Haitian Human Rights Commission, had obtained the release of 26 political prisoners. Further details were not im· mediately available. 
Duvalier, long accused of human rights violations, steadfastly held that there were no political prisoners in his jails. 
U.S. embassy spokesman Jeffrey Ute said yesterday that Washington was considering releasing S52 mil­lion in foreign aid already approved for Haiti but held up because of the human rights situation under Duvalier. 
Correction 

Because of a reporting error, some analysis attributed to Stu· dent Body President Bill Healy In Friday's article about Student Senate restructuring was incor­rect. Healy was referring to last spring's CREST proposal when he said he believed the proposal was not studied enough. The Obser­ver regrets the error. 

-~-~----------~-­
The Observer 

Fund 
continuedfrom page 1 
asked to help as the campaign gets into high gear," he said. 
The department of development, the fund-raising arm of the Univer­sity, already had begun work on the campaign before Hesburgh's speech, according to Sexton. 
Those able to either assist with the campaign or make "significant personal contributions" were flown to campus on five weekends last spring to meet with University of­ficers, he said. 
Five more such "fly-in weekends," each involving six couples, have been scheduled to begin this March, said Sexton. In addition, the Univer­sity will invite 100 more potential donors to the campus this fall, he said. 
Similar plans for the campaign have been made for next year, he said. 
The idea for the campaign grew out of the PACE report, a study which spelled out the University's priorities, according to Provost Timothy O'Meara, who was in charge of the report released in 1982. 
In order to fund those priorities, O'Meara said, a a campaign bigger than all previous fund-raisers was necessary. 
Although the concept of "Notre Dame: A Strategic Moment" is similiar to past campaigns, its goal is much more ambitious because "we're a larger University and our needs needs have increased," he said. 
"We see there's much more to be done," O'Meara said. "We believe that our benefactors also see that and they're willing to give." 
According to Sexton, the major thrust ofthe campaign is to build-up the University's endowment, which now stands at approximately $310 million. 
Hesburgh, who declined to com­ment about the campaign but in· stead referred all questions to Sexton, said during his October address that the University hopes the campaign will bring the endow­ment "up to over a halfa billion dol­lars." 
This, he said, "plus faith, is the guarantee ofcontinued progress and avoiding the growing dilemma of either hopelessly high fees or cur­tailing our steady upward move­ment." 

AIDS victims in prison battle crowds, threats 
Associated Press 
VACAVILLE, Calif. · There is little comfort for the inmates of the spe­cial section of this prison, the place Californian sends inmates who are dying ofAIDS. 
Some lie draped across the beds of their hospital cells, staring through the bars with gaunt faces. Down the hall, in a dormitory the size ofa large living room, the stronger ones talk and kill time. They sound like most prison 
r inmates. Steven Mednick, a 29-year­
t old convicted burglar, echoes ot­
r 
hers as he complains to a visitor: "it's severely overcrowded ... the food's cold ... the restroom's dirty." Officials say they do what they can
~ to maintain good conditions. 
r 
But the conversation soon comes r around to AIDS as Mednick says
r 
bluntly, "I don't want to die in
r
, prison." Many inmates in the general
r 
prison population fear the AIDS vic­
r 
tims and refuse to be housed near them. 
r 
In fact, Lt. Joe McGrath, the prison's spokesman, said hospital and dorm areas were set aside for victims after members ofthe general population issued a threat: "if you don't take care of them, we'll take care ofthem." 
The AIDS victims in the hospital and dorm balk little at the segrega­tion. "Being quarantined is saving my life," says one. 
Khoury said the inmates at Vacaville picked up the virus from homosexual sex, from injecting drugs with a hypodermic needle used by an AIDS carrier, or from both activities. Nearly half are homosexuals and about three­quarters are drug users, he said. 
"I'm both a homosexual and a 
drug user," said Keva Smith, 30, a San 
Franciscan who violated his parole 
on a grand theft conviction. 

Twenty percent ofthose with pre­AIDS develop AIDS within two years; researchers aren't sure what will happen to the rest. 
General Mills, Inc. 
-presents­
nancial Manageme Opportunities for ALPA Majors' 
uesdayI February 11 I 1986 Alumni Senior ,club 5:30p.m.-7:30 p.m. 
Monday, February 10,1986 -page 6 
According to Sexton, most of the funds collected will go to financial aid for students. Approximately 20 percent of the funds will be used for undergraduate financial aid, and ap­proximately 12 percent for graduate financial aid, he said. 
Endowed chairs, which establish professorships to attract top scholars to the University, will receive the next largest portion of the funds, he said. The next biggest share will be used for research sup­port and equipment, he said. 
Money from the campaign will also finance the renovation of the Administration Building and con­struction ofa new classroom, Sexton said. Funds will also go to the Center for Social Concerns, he said. 
According to Sandman, campaign money already has funded the addi­tion to the law school, and will even­tually fund the construction of women's dorms. Campaign con­tributions also will enable the Memorial Ubrary and Snite Museum to add to their collections, he said. 
In addition, campaign money will be given to various institutes at the University, such as the Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry. 
In order to fund these projects and institutions, administrators are soliciting funds from all Notre Dame constituencies, said Conklin. These include alumni, parents, board of trustees' members, corporations and foundations, such as the Ford Foundation, he said. 


Most ofthe contributions given so far have been toward scholarships and endowments, Conklin said. 
Included among these is one of the largest personal gifts evr received by the University -$6 mil­lion from Joan Kroc, widow of the founder of McDonald's, to establish an Institute for Peace Studies. 
After the amount of these con­tributions are made public during the official anouncement, the cam­paign's national phase will begin, Sexton said. 
The national phase will encom­passe 190 cities by 1989, with spe· cia! events such as dinners being held for potential contributors in those areas, he said. 
Those contacted during this period will primarily be alumni, ac­cording to Conklin. Parents not solicited earlier in the campaign will also be asked to contribute, he added. 
Although this campaign is the most ambitious, it is certainly not new to the University. 
This Valentine's Day, go all out. 
Go ahead, show that special someone how much you care by sending the FTD® Hearts 'n' Flowers'" Bouquet. beautiful arrangement in an impressive caddy. It's so easy. Just call 
your FTD Florist. 
Go ahead. Do something really exciting! 

The Notre Dame Glee Club presents 
A ROSE AND A LOVE SONG 
SINGING VALENTINES Delivered Thursday, Feb. 13 
In person, anywhere at ND or SMC $5 By phone, anywhere in the USA $3 
Order yours at lunch in the Dining Halls SUNDAY through WEDNESDAY 
The first major fund-raising cam­paign was called "Challenge 1." Beginning in 1960, it lasted three years and raised a total of S24.6 mil­lion in gifts and commitments. 
The next major campaign, "Challenge II," began as the first ended and also lasted three years. "Challenge II" raised a total of S22 million. 
Immediately after that came "SUMMA," which lasted six years and raised a total of S62.S million. 
Three years after "Summa" ended, "Campaign for Notre Dame" began in 1975. It lasted almost six years and raised a total of Sl80.5 million. 
A few months after that, "Athletic Endowment Fund" began. It lasted less than a year and raised a little more than Sl0 million, according to Carol Hennion, manager ofaccounts and records. 
The total amount raised during these five campaigns amounts to al­most S300 million. 
Although Hesburgh «ff'dn't specify which five campaigns he was refer­ring to during his October address, several administrators agreed these were the five he was speaking of when he said the present campaign's goal is to surpass the five previous campaigns combined. 

MARCH lrl 1-8 !Ia 15-22 lrl 8-15 !Ia 22-29 
CONDO OR HOTEL LODGING PARTIES I GOODIE BAGS I MORE! 
OFFICIAL BEACH TRIPS 







Accent 
Monday, February 10,1986 -page 7 


pose an obstacle, according to 
Mastrangelo. "There are no 
problems in taking care ofa cat. 
You have a litter box and that is it," 
he explained. 
When long breaks in school 
come around, most students either 
have friends come in to feed their 
pets or they take their animals 
home with them. There is never any 
question in the Frey and Hamer 
household as to where Knute will 
be spending his vacations. Proud 
owner Frey said, "My mouse comes 
home with me." 
Once a student gets a pet he likes, 
there are almost no problems, but 
finding the right pet is sometimes 
more difficult than one would 
think. Mastrangelo and his 
roommates had always wanted to 
get a dog when they moved off­
campus, so they did. But they could 
not keep him. 
"We had a serious flea problem for the first three months oflast semester," Mastrangelo explained. "You could not sit on the couch. I had fleas in my bed and everywhere." 
Good pets not only provide a hassle-free friendship to their owners, they are also "kind ofa conversation piece," as Hamer put it. When he and his roommates have parties, the mouse Is put away ("reserved for special occasions"), and everyone takes time to tap on the fish aquarium. 
Senior uto Latoni, who refers to his pet as Thomas the Mouse, said there was another advantage in having a pet. "I think it is a good way to keep people out ofthe house when you are gone all day or at the library at night. H you do have a pet in the house, people think twice about going in," he explained. 
Mastrangelo echged Latoni's sentiments. "Most people who live in houses, especially if they are around bars, do get pets" for safety reasons, he explained. 
"Everyone that can have a pet, should," Hamer said. "And those that can't should make friends with someone who has one." 
"Share the fun of a pet!" he cheered. 
Winter just isn't the same without snow shoveling 
Dave Dvorak 
Out of the lunchbox. 

W 
e always hear ofAmerican workers losing their jobs and being replaced by machines. It's pretty unfortunate, but the reasons are simple. Machines are more efficient than humans. Machines don't take 
coffee breaks or demand weekly paychecks. Machines don't go on 
strike. 
Yet, as logical as this seems, we know deep down that there is 
something unnatural about mechanical monsters cranking out 
products that human hands were meant to fashion. 
Face it, the machine-knit sweater you bought at The Gap doesn't 
mean nearly as much to you as the one Grandma knit you for 
Christmas. 
The perversity ofall this becomes especially unsettling when we 
consider that even the great American Institution ofsnow 
shoveling is in serious danger ofextinction. The culprit? The 
gas-powered snowblower, ofcourse. 
Anyone who spent his childhood In a cold winter climate knows 
that shoveling sidewalks on cold winter afternoons was an 
important part ofgrowing up. It built character. It built discipline. 
It built shoulder muscles. 
It was also an importan~ source ofemployment. On snowy 
afternoons, my friends and I used to run home from school, grab 
shovels and hit the streets. Together, we'd walk from house to 
house, ringing doorbells and offering to sell our services. 
Rarely could a housewife or a little old lady say no to a few 
bright-eyed kids with red cheeks and runny noses. They would 
usually smile and say something like, "You know, I was just 
thinking about how badly my walk needed to be shoveled." My 
neighbors were wonderful liars. 
Once we got the job, my friends and I persisted until it was finished. We'd barely be able to lift the shovels as we heaved the snow aside. But we always did a thorough job, making sure the sidewalk was clean right down to the cement. 
We usually earned a buck or two apiece for each sidewalk we shoveled. It was tax-free income that could later be invested in candy, Christmas presents or a new baseball glove. 
But I feel sorry for kids growing up in my neighborhood today. None of the neighbors on the block need their sidewalks shoveled anymore. After all, Mr. Thurber, a guy down the street, bought a Toro snowblower last year. 
Mr. Thurber is a skinny, wimpy guy. His wife, who's twice as big as he, is always bossing him around. When his kids play cowboys and Indians, they like to tie him up and shoot rubber-tipped arrows at him. 
But after every snowfall, Mr. Thurber rolls that fearsome red machine out of the garage. With one quick pull of the cord, the thing roars to life:, shattering the sacred silence ofthe winter landscape. 
Mr. Thurber hlmseff undergoes a frightening change of character. A maniacal gleam appears in his eyes and a sinister smile spreads across his face. His wimpiness suddenly gives way to confident machismo. Newly-realized power rests in the grips ofhis hands. 
With a simple squeeze ofthe power-drive lever, Thurber and his snowblower take off down the block. The red monster lunges ahead, gobbling up snow and anything else in its path, throwing everything furiously through the air. 
The hearts ofall persons nearby are swept by terror as the 
half-crazed man and his machine approach. Mothers grab their 

.,
children and run indoors; other kids dive frantically into snow­

.,
banks tQ get out ofthe way. When Thurber is finally fiqlshed, he has cleared all the sidewalks on the entire block. It's not an act ofcharity, though; it's a power 
trip. 
He shuts off the snowblower, and by the time the deafening roar has ceased, Mr. Thurber has returned to his normal wimpy self. With a struggle, he wheels the machine into his garage. His wife opens the door and yells at him to set the table for dinner. Uke a beaten dog, he hangs his head and follows her into the house. 
Meanwhile, all the kids in my neighborhood are out of jobs. I often wonder what they do with themselves all afternoon. I'm worried that they might end up like the kids from somewhere like southern California, where snow shoveling never has and never will exist. 
Mention snow shovels to California kids and they'll think you're talking about a new wave band. Since they don't ever shovel snow, they waste their childhoods flinging Frisbees, riding skateboards and playing Hackey Sack. As they grow up, their priorities come to include activities like surfing and getting their hair permed. 
That's no way for a kid in my neighborhood to grow up. Give him a snow shovel and put him to work. 


MARY BERGER 
f•atu,ys writer 
S 
omeone said that a dog is man's 
best friend. Well, there are some 
off-campus students who would like 
to add mice, fish, cats and other 
assorted animals to that list. 
Many off-campus students have 
discovered some of the joys and 
pitfalls involved in owning a pet. 
Junior Mike Frey says his mouse 
Knute is "a good friend. I can talk to 
him and he can't talk back." Frey 
and his roommates also have three 
fish: Darby O'Gill, Snooter and 
Goldie. 

The advantages ofhaving pets far outweigh the disadvantages, ac­cording to most pet owners. 
"They aren't that hard to take care of," senior Kevin Hamer said of Knute and the fish. "It is a pain to clean the tank, but I imagine a dog would be harder to take care of." 
"I am glad we have a pet," said junior Ralph Mastrangelo, who has a cat, Gumby, and a kitten, Pokey. "You are never alone with a pet around. Heck, she even moon­walks!" Mastrangelo's roommate, junior Otis Boersma, said the cats were the best pets he has ever had. 
Maintenance does not seem to 

~i~~~_<>__i_ll___t__________________
M_on-da-y,_Fe-bru-ary--10_,19-86--p-ag--eS 

Coed dorms would trade old problems for new 
The recent discussion of parietals at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's has brought out many interesting issues. One perspective suggests r that the present policies inhibit freedom, treat r students as children and are potentially harm-
r 
r 
r PatrickW. Utz 
r 
r' 
r guest column 
! 
~ ful to personal development. The other point of view argues that these policies allow for privacy, preserve the common good and thus enhance individual development. 
r 
~ 
r 
r 
r r 
r 
r r 
r r 
r 

lEN JroRY £wi..DIN"." 
In defending either position, proponents suggest that the opposing position con­tributes to an unhealthy environment. One might look at these issues from a philosophi­cal, political or even theological perspective. I would like to address these issues from the perspective ofa psychologist. 
What is a psychologically healthy environ­ment? Examinjng society or families on the restrictive/permissive continuum would lead one to conclude that only at the extremes are environments unhealthy. Both totalitarian regimes and laissez-faire governments produce undesirable effects. Parents who in­sist on absolute control or, on the other hand, abandon their authority are likely to encounter serious problems in the family sys-
tern. 
Most societies, like most families, function toward the middle on this continuum. Thus, a healthy conmmunity could be defined as one . that does not produce a large number ofpsyc­hological problems. A healthy individual is one who is able to cope effectively with the unique stresses ofhis or her environment. 
There have been a variety of policies and procedures related to "visitation" on the campuses where I've worked. The policies themselves do not seem to produce an un­healthy environment, since most are neither totally restrictive nor totally permissive. It is clear, however, that patterns of problems are associated with residential policies on campus. 
In a residence hall which houses men and women, the students tend to develop their own "codes." There is typically a taboo against dating someone who lives in the hall. I am aware ofa studentwho moved out in order to be able to date someone from her previous hall. While not forbidden, it is customary not to bring dates into the coed hall. Areas usually are informally defined as "male" or "female," with opposite sex residents expected to respect the different territories. 
Relationships between the sexes in the halls tend to be more "brother-sister." It took me some time, coming from a Catholic back­ground, to realize that sleeping in the same room, or even· the same bed, did not imply sexual contact. Students on many campuses pushed for such living arrangements and once granted, many expected coed living to become the modal style. In fact, after early strong interest, most campuses have found either a stable or decreasing level of interest in coed dorms. 
Students in coed dorms have problems maintaining boundaries. They also report needing more time with same-sex students in order to explore their thoughts and feelings in a less stressful setting. Many report missing the privacy associated with single-sex <;torms. 
On the other hand, when male/female con­tacts are restricted, and sexes live totally separately, other problems surface. Casual male/female relationships are often difficult to establish. The talk on either side tends to be generalized. 
At Notre Dame we hear comments about "Girls here are ... "or, "All the guys here care about is ...." Much ofthe aggressive humor is typically directed at members of the opposite sex. Most important, there is less evidence of an androgynous environment. Roles are more sharply defined, stereotypes more deeply entrenched. 
Notre Dame would be described as restrictive in residential policy and, until recently, permissive in alcohol use policy when compared to the majority of college campuses. Consequently, we experienced a developing loss of boundaries in alcohol use while at the same time we wrestle with male­female issues which long ago disappeared from many campuses. 
Should more changes be made in either area, a new set of community and individual problems would surface. Ifchanges are to be made, it would be my view to look to philosophical, political or theological bases for such changes. From a psychological perspective, it would seem that we would be trading one set of problems, which are as­sociated with a most complicated develop­mental stage, for another set ofproblems. 
I would like to thank the editorial staff for 
the invitation to comment on this discussion. 
Patrick W. Utz is the director ofthe Coun­seling and Psychological Services Center at Notre Dame. 

We must be aware of our top officials' proposals 
If Attorney General Edwin Meese has his way, the philosophy on which our entire criminal justice system is based could be thrown right out the proverbial window. In an interview published in U.S. News and World Report, Meese was asked about his criticism of the Miranda ruling, which gives suspects the right to counsel by an attorney before police 
questioning.  Meese  was  asked,  "Shouldn't  
people  who  may  be  innocent  have  such  
protection?"  

William Wilson or to tear the pages 
Meese replied, "Suspects who are innocent of a crime should. But the thing is, you don't have many suspects who are innocent of a crime. That's contradictory. If a person is in­nocent ofa crime, then he is not suspect." Oh, if it were only true. How many innocent people have gone on trial for a crime they did not commit? Yes, they were most likely, and hopefully, acquitted, but they had to be suspect to be charged. 
Desire for law and order is something which most of us possess. Yet it becomes frightening when our nation's highest law en­forcement officer suddenly wants to change our principle of "innocent until proven guilty" to "guilty until proven innocent." 
Of course, it is easy for us to go along with Meese's thinking. One could assume that most of us are not guilty of anything worse than a traffic violation. Most people do not commit serious crimes, so they do not concern them­selves with the rights of those who might be so accused. But put yourself in the shoes of someone who is accused of committing a crime. You may be innocent-only you your­self truly know -but if you are, what do you think might happen to you ifyou were ques­tioned by police without the counsel ofan at­torney? 
Our criminal justice system is a complicated place. An innocent person trying to muddle through it without the assistance of a trained specialist would be like a philosop­her trying to decipher a complex electrical schematic drawing. 
One ofthe basic tenets ofour justice system is that the worst thing which could happen would be an innocent man going to jail. It is better for a guilty man to go free than for an innocent man to be imprisoned. And without the assistance oflegal counsel, many innocent people might go to jail. 
Fortunately, it is most likely that Meese never will get his wish regarding the Miranda ruling. But I bring this up to you for this reason: we need to be constantly aware of what our leaders and policy makers are think­ing. We need to question their actions so we are assured they are doing the right thing. You don't have to immediately write the attorney general and tell him your opinion, but just be William Wilson is a sophomore govern­aware of what's going on. A wolf will have a ment and international studies major at better chance at catching a sleeping sheep Notre Dame and a regular Viewpoint colum­than one who is wide awake. nist. 

...AN ACE-CJLI) EXCHANGE ()F ll)EAS! 
NarATAU, Z. I !<NOW HOW 
FONVYOUW~ 
Of {}(Jf<C .. 
/ 
Garry Trudeau 

L/5T&N, 11/HYOON'T YOU JOIN UNfOR.TUNAT&I..Y, ,11&'5 U5 70N16HT, OKAY? J. J. '5 NOWA SP/K&-HAII?E{), 
OPffl/NG HER LAVA70/?.Y SHOW ALBINOfflV/t?aVMENT­00/A/N H&FC ATCW8 5TOP 'N' AL DE.t;.tRJf.'.R 
/ 80P. 

\ 
Quote of the day 
"If a young man is going to ge\ ahead, if he is going to reach the top, he must be all wrapped up in what he is doing. He has to give his job • whatever it is • not only his talent but every bit of his en­thusiasm and devotion." 
SamGoldwyn (1882-1974) 



-.....
Monday, February 1 0, 1986 -page 9 

P.O. Box Q 
l 

Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan News Editor ............................................. Frank Upo News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Saint MillY'S Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Sports Editor ........................................... Jeff Blumb Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy Viewpoint Editor .................................... Joe Murphy Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Wolf 
Operations Board 
Business Manager...................... David Stephenitch Controller ............................. William J. Highducheck Advertising Manager ........................ Jim Hagan Advertising Manager . . ............ Anne M. Culligan Systems Manager ......................... Mark B. Johnson Production Manager .............. John A. Men nell 
Founded November 3, 1966 

President Marcos' re-election is again "in the the moral justification for the death ofJames 
best interest of the Philippine people." Terry Roach in South Carolina's electric chair. northeast of Columbia. There they saw a Marcos has been In power for 20 years, and he This letter obviously was written absent parked late model car occupied by Taylor, 17, 1.-; a sick man. any knowledge of the factual settings sur­and Hartness, 14. 
Furthermore, the country's economy Is rounding this tragic case. To concentrate Shaw, who was driving, pulled up beside deteriorating. The Philippines has a huge solely on the punishment earned by Roach for the parked car in such a way that Roach, who foreign debt and many businesses are closing. the heinous crime which he perpetrated upon was in the front passenger's seat, was directly Many foreign Investors have left the two innocent residents of the Columbia area across from Taylor, the driver of the parked 
Philippines, and with good reason. Would any is unfortunate. 
car. Mahaffey was in the back seat. sensible businessman choose to Invest in an 
At a prearranged signal from Shaw, Roach
Often well-meaning persons such as the 
leveled a .22 caliber rifle through the car win­economy that was unstable and run by a cor­
writer of this letter ignored the truth. The 
dow at Taylor and demanded money. Taylorrupt government? Agovernment led by a man 
truth is that both Roach andJoseph Carl Shaw, 
gave the three his wallet. 
who has questionable credentials, possibly 
his partner, received the punishment which 
Shaw and Mahaffey got out of their car andfabricated to make him a bigger hero than the fit the crime they perpetrated and freely ad­Mahaffey took the keys out of Taylor's car.
lier he is? I doubt it. And who Is to stop him? mitted. To forget the innocent victims, Car­Shaw ordered Hartness out ofTaylor's car andNot his wife, nor the military (he would lotta Hartness and Thomas Taylor, is sad. 
forced her into the back scat of his car withsimply bribe them all), and certainly not his Truly, victims of crime have, in the words of Mahaffey. Shaw got back into his car, turned toconscience. the Supreme Court, "been forgotten, un­Roach and said, "Ok, now." Roach then shotIt has been at least I 7 years since a wanted and unrepresented." 
and killed young Taylor who was still sittinginpresidential election has been held in the To fully appreciate what really transpired in his parked car.
this case and to allow each individual the
Philippines. The opposition has not been Hartness was carried to a dirt road a short
ability to determine his position as to the
given a chance to form a political party as distance away where she was raped and
death penalty, it is necessary to review the
strong a.<; the President's KBL. It is only forced to perform deviant sexual acts. 
facts surrounding this crime. 
throu¢1 Corazon Aquino that the opposition Shaw asked who would shoot Hartness and
The following facts were taken from edited
ha.~ made a move to unite. Yes, she is inex­Roach volunteered. Shaw instructed Hartness
excerpts of the South Carolina Supreme
perienced, but she has one thing to offer that to put her face to the ground but she refused.
Court:
Marcos doesn't: credibility. She will bring Shaw drew a circle in the dirt, drew an "X" credibility back to the government and the Shaw, Roach and Ronald Eugene Mahaffey inside the circle and told Hartness to place her country and hopefully bolster the failing spent the morning ofSaturday, Oct. 29, 1977, head in the circle. Hartness again refused and economy, somthing Marcos has failed at. I "shooting up" with drugs and drinking beer. pleaded for her life. Shaw told Hartness a third wonder whether Lahren is 'aware of the fact At approximately 1 that afternoon the three time to place her head on the ground and she that Corazon Aquino is estranged from the decided, in Mahaffey's words, "to see if we complied. Roach shot Hartness in the head, could find a girl to rape." causing her body to convulse. Shaw then took
members ofher family that own the enormous Shaw, Roach and Mahaffey drove to Polo the rifle from Roach and fired into Hartness'
sugar plantation and that her farm was ap· Park, a baseball park, located off Alpine Road head, killing her. 
propriated by the government. 
Shaw, Roach and Mahaffey left the scene, 
ys A 
THE B\JSlNE.~ OFAMERIC~ I~ BUSINESS 
TAKEOVERS. 
Accusation against CBS was not completely true 
DearEditor: 
I was appalled Thursday to find another ar­ticle by Rich Coglianese in The Observer. After being so ridiculed for his idiotic article on the restoration of the Latin Mass, I felt that Coglianese would learn to enter the realm of reality. Unfortunately, I was wrong. His latest pathetic effort, concerning CBS, was equally inept. 
I believe that his accusations of CBS being sympathetic toward Cuba are not entirely cor­rect. I would like to know why he bases the aim of a network on the actions of a lone employee, Robert Taber. 
His conclusion that the CBS network "would not stoop to insult Castro" does not take into account all the other important fac­tors concerning the poll ofGrenada residents and their subsequent airing, or lack thereof I must agree with Coglianese that the coverage ofthe children at McAuliffe's school was taste­­less, but so were the repeated broadcasts of the shuttle explosion and the reaction of the McAuliffe family at Cape Canaveral by the ot· her networks. I fail to see how being an altar boy is the first step to the priesthood. Silly, clueless me. 
I also find it hard to believe that Ted Turner wanted to buy CBS to transform the network. Perhaps money and prestige were more likely motivators. I would just love to see Jesse Helms buy CBS. Why, we would be able to hear the Moral Majority on network TV. Such joy! 
Dan Gerlach Planner Hall 
The Viewpoint Department 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 
46556 

The Aquino candidacy allowed free expression 
Dear Editor: 
Jim Lahren's articles on the Philippine elec­tions establish either one of two things: his ig­norance or his naivete. How simple it is to disregard Corazon Aquino as a "viable elec­tion choice" and to advocate a military coup and say It IIi in "the best interest of the people." 
I doubt very much that l.ahren knows how unpopular the military is, and should they do something as foolish as to attempt a coup the results would be tragic. Violence would surely erupt, especially between the army and the NPA, the Communist-led New People's Army. Moreover, President Marcos holds the reins of the military through his good friend General Fabian Ver, chiefofstaffofthe Armed Forces. It would be quite impossible to plan a coup in a country with 7,000 islands without news ofIt leaking to the president and his put­ting an end to it. 
l.ahren goes on further to say Aquino is not a viable election choice. He seems to think 
A final point I wish to make (again contrary to Lahren's opinion) is that the United States made the right decision in calling for early elections. Marcos' popularity was decreasing and it is only fair to see whether the Filipinos still wanted him as their leader or not. Moreover, it gave the United States a chance to reevaluate its policies towards the Philippines, the big question being whether or not they would support an unpopular goverment. Although the electoral process in the Philippines is obviously more tainted than what Americans are used to, it gave the Filipinos a chance to express themselves. Per­haps this freedom of expression is what the country needed all along. 
Margarita Villalon Breen-Phtllips Hall 
James Roach's victims were forgotten in letter 
DearEditor: 
As a lawyer, a member of the law enforce­ment community and a frequent visitor to the University of Notre Dame, I feel compelled to respond to Ms. Kinta Haller's letter attacking 

STARW~ 
ISTWE. 
WEAPON 
SYSTEM 
OFniE. 
FUTURE... 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Samt Mary's College. It does not necessanly reflect the policies of the adm1n1strat1on of e1ther mstitution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­Sible Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opmion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­tanes. leners and the lns1de Column present the views of their authors. Column space is ava1lable to all members of the comm1,1nity and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through leners. IS encouraged. 
disposed of the rifle and bullets, and returned to Polo Park to satisfy themselves that Taylor was dead. 
Later that night Shaw returned to the scene of Hartness' murder and mutilated her body. 
Shaw, Roach and Mahaffey were arrested on Nov. 3, 1977. Each was indicted for two counts of murder, two counts of conspiracy, rape, kidnapping and armed robbery. The state elected to seek the death penalty for Shaw and Roach and served the Notices re­quired by Seeton 16-3-20(B), Cum. Supp. 1978, on Dec. 14, 15 and 16, 1977. At this hearing, evidence in extenuation, mitigation and aggravation was introduced. The trial judge found aggravating circumstances and imposed sentences of death upon both Shaw and Roach. 
On Jan. 10, 1986, James Terry Roach, an adult, 25, received the penalty for an adult crime. 
john A. O'Leary Executive Director Crtmtnaljustice Academy Columbia, South Carolina 



I 
l -
through Friday. The Obserr•er Saint :\lary's office. hKatcd on tht: third floor of Haggar Colleg.: C.:nt.:r. acc.:pts dassifkds from 12:.'0 p.m until 3 p.m, :\ion· day rhough Friday Deadline for nnt·da\ da•sifieds is ·' p.m. All da,,ifkds must h.: pr.:paid. either in person or h\ mail. Char!(c i' 10 c.:nts p.:r fiv.: l·haral·· 
Classifieds 
t.:rs .:r dav. 

LOIT: LIGHT-a.UE JACKET WITH 
SUWVAN SCEHAIIIO '17 BILL:CongrataOnFASBIYouAieNowAn 
t ~ ~D INTIENOR AT MDGIET's Katie Sullvan • Preaident Accounting King! Let'S Go Car Shopping
NOTICES 
8IIALL AQUA TICKETS
TUIEBDAY NIGHT. & 
Lori Lohman • Vice Preaident Over Break! MB:Oid We Survive PLAID ac:AitF W.U WITH JACICn, Jenny Feeney· T-r• Weekend? I Hope We Old! MJ:You Are 
AUO LOIT. JACKIET W.U NIEW AND I Thank you St. Jude ·EM Clare H-.nann · Seaetery The Seat LH'Sial The Auguata Geng:lNUD rr TO SUIMVIE "'MIE WllfTIIII. WE"LL PAINT A PIEI'IFECT PICTUI'IE Love YOU'ALLI From AT-BoundTyping Avllil.tlle 
FREE SEER FREE BEER FREE BEER 287-40112 
FREE BEER FREE BEER FREE BEER 
8CAIIF IIILONGa TO A FNEND OF Than!< you St. Jude lor ,..telling <Her me FORYOUII Pet• Pan. 
..NIE. PLUIIE CALL AT 1411 IF YOU FREE ia WMt, but I need 2 G.A.'alor the and my family. -PAG 
HAVIE THill. DePaul 8-BIIII game,on Feb. 25 ~ Hey !leaner!$10.$380 Weekly/Up Milling Clrculnl 
cal Jackie 2128 H you '-a tid<eta lor 
No~l THANK YOU ST. JUDE THE lOth! Happy 19th Birthday! 
I .... THE lOth/ Bootie On Your Birthday? SIIICeNiy lnt•-ru8h ....--c!
l envelope: Succ:e., POIIox 470C00, WEAE YOU IN THE IOOKSTOAE Fardlnand, TOday'a The 10th/ Hope Your Day Ia Specillil Woodllock. IL 800118. THURSDAY. 2/8? IF SO. DID YOU HAP· Nol Ariella tMr.. The bog. Love,
Alter The Ondu.,.. Flo_., Glee Oub PEN TO ACCIDENTLY PICK UP A Miranda Tlx, and FTD. ..tlat more can I do lor an .w-BlACK FOLDER FILLED WITH HAND­PERSONALS encore? Pleue HELP (Coach) mell'l do OUTS FOR ALL MY ClASSES.ANO A anythlngll A thanldul and loving Baby GREEN NOTEBOOK WITH NOTES FOR ·······w;;;;·~;;t·;~·;;y·;;;;;;;·,;;;··ii·;; Come and relu with your favorite Elephent MEN,MEN,MEN 


THOSE SAME CLASSES? PlEASE Vllentine... THATSIENTIEJITAINIIENT LOVE.LOVE,LOVE
aaw In infrentd Md ull18vfolel, or II ­
CALL 4029. OA DROP THEM Featuring: John Tyler III'IAD EDMONDS ME.ME,ME
could rr.Jn OUfMiv• to-autaa, futuru TYPING • Pick-up I delivery on campua. untanned, pata lngettng?
ANYWHERE IN THE VICINITY OF 233 Jan 11-SMC-Haggw Colege Cent•· ia 19 today lhow your apathy and don't ·01 WIIcheck apellng. Ou8lltyau-nteedby 
FARLEY Chameleon Room ll-11pm FREE FOOD caiiMZS and wilh him a happy birthday. Playa Jamel Taylor, Nell Diamond, and ................................................................
a~. SUSAN· 2117-11257 • Richard Bach. 
LOST: Burgandy Leatt.' Glov81 At more. Hu19Y? <AI YELLOW SUBMARINE at Valentine'S Wll Nev• Be Better!-BIU 
································································ TM...Acro.F-•
Senior S. Saturdly F.oru.ry 11t <AI 272·HIKE. Delvery H0U111: 5prn-12am
DI'IIIT TYPING leiWia. CALL 

Blanche At 284-5119 With My Informa­The Notre Dame Glee Cklb ~ Monday-Thuradlly; 5prn-2am Friday; SMC FRESHMEN SKI TRIP 
.._COKIII, 2»7001. Oftentimea Love Ia ao poorly packaged 
tion. ""A Role and a Love Song" 3pm·1am Saturday; 4pm·1 Opm Sunday. FEB. 15TH 
that when we have lOki everything to buy 
SINGING VALENTINES 8-4

ATTN: ITUDIENU it, we cry in finding al our aubatance gone
LOST: Plir of wire rim glauea In lllack Delivered Thuradlly, Feb. 13 Sign Up At SMC 6-9 In Any Dorm $5 Non·
Dolorea Francia typing ..vice and nothing in the tineal and the ribbon. -
cae on Fri. 31 or Sat. 1. II found, ~ lnp...on-$5 Th<*l were the daya when men were Refundable Oepoait Required NO Friends 
phone number c:hanga Hate ci'-well to !liMN a buyer. 27NI131 
<all 272-3823 or 2n·7596. Byphone·$3 men and women w.-e men'a. Ale Welcome! Order your8 In the Dining Hall
·Calvin Miler.
loll: N.D. a-Ring at the Rock 101< At Lunch Sunday lhi\J Wedneadlly That kind of coutfNy I can do without. I Need You 01-Paul THE ST. FRANCIS SHOPPE hM weat 
Gc*l and Blue Stone l..atption: .a.ph 
································································ 

w. SdiMI• '86 "'--.,.. Joe at; 288· -tchfor lhelrilh aurf• -lorthe irial>
--lor VALENTINE"& DAY! Open 10.5, 

PUI'IUG: • 
........-to--atrvl""...,

~. Behind Fallma Renalc.nt.. &410~oll-ed. In the Dancllll lrleh rautiM at the aurl• ,..tch lor the lrilh aulf•
Thanlca lor a wonderful evening ... 
DNt Beth (Cuddlee)' Match 5, Dayton 8-bal game. Need S

T.B. 
Dumpling and I (KalinluJ) juat...., to aay tlcbla. c.~-at MM. hello to )'011. Hope )'011 ..Mvll'lfllun. 
What waa that~?

Chat Quaeea: 
23-21?
7ST08TAYAUVE

H'anol tMI I don't"-how to do It, I 
CI!Hrlo,

Juat don"!.._ what todol 
J.R.A. C.M.L JOHNNY NEEDS A NIEW PAII'I OF·F.C.

L,~~s.:~~~~~~J IL.....-_W_A_N_TE_D___. 
8HOU COULD MAKE THE DIF· 
FIEJIIENCE.

loll:A pair of preaa1ptlon eyeglaaeae in a ································································ 
OVIEJIIUI JOel._.,_, yr.nllllld. lt'a Comlngll ll'a Coning!
,_with • picture ofaklnen on the .... OAR HOUSIE: COLO eiEIEJII & LIQUOR. It -lollSaturday ....t bet-. Wallh CAMY OUT TO I A.ll. U.S. 11 N., 1
!Eunlpa, ~•• Au8lnlle, Aala. AI SMC Sophomore andlM!m. Cal Nicole 211n. 
SWM!ha.t

lleldl. ....1000 -· ............ aOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. C.mpua Valentinea Day Dance Friday
F-lnlu. wrtt. I.IC, fiiO .. ~. SwiftII 
Feb 14th 8:30-1AM Slepan Cent. HelpLOST: lllv• TIMEX wmch. L.oat eround 
c-dii....,CAtaal. Feb. 14th ll-1am 
Lovtne c.~t~olc -.p~e -toadopt Fight MS I Win Prizea 
lt"a Comlngllll'a Comlngll
Senior a. or C8mpua View on Feb. 1. Mlnlant.ll you --ofanyonewllo Ia ~Hfound. <AI Pat at 3165. cona~c~er~ne p~ac~,. a child ,...... REVUE LOOKING FOR A CAREER lion, .._.c:.ll collect (217) 187-3171 HAWAII FIVE·O HIELP We '-e found In the put that college atw7p.lll. ROWER IN RED 
a great time to 

loll-alculator In 120 Cullling Tuea Feb. atudenta and Waduatea excel In our ln­
711TO STAY ALIVIE YOU'VE GOT GREAT LEGS! 4 • 4:00pm. W• !aft under dllk with 2 ~atry beclluM they .. ambltloua and DAVIE FLANAGAN 
get Personal 

........ h Ia an HP 37E. II found~ p oriented. N8llonal recrMiion­FORUIIOC I'I.T.P. .,..c.t•234-2275. company Ia Iooking lor a lew good people 
WILD WOMEN OF MCCANDLESS 

................................................................ to 11811 our 18811ulea lne. H"" Income 
ONLYSDAYS REWARD OFFERED. llolt my--a potential-exc:elent opportunity lor ad­

ust bring this coupon to

YOUNG lliAVIELLIRS NEWSLIETTEJIII SQUEAK, SQUEAK. UNTIL THE BIG DANCE! 
WMk ago. It -probably In Cuahing. vancement. <AI Mr. Oteveneon at 816-lndud81:800 no.; travel parm. MCOOW: STAY CALM HE ISN'T FROM 
The Observer and receive

o·a.e. or Waahlngton Hal. 11 you '-e 885-3873. Hrvic:e~aaturea on exotic OVIEMIEAS SAGA AND HE HAS REAL TEETH! KAT­found them~ s;ve me a <all at 3046. budget travel, work. atudyl Send check THANKS! HALEEN: DON'T LET MK PICK UP 
cents of{ your next 

. -
Thanlca. Blnder·than-a-llat. ($12/yr.) to: Y.T.N.• P.O. lloll3887, New MURPHSKY, DEBBIE, MARY JEAN, YOUR DATE OR YOU MIGHT NOT 
lassi{ied ad order. One

................................................................ Haven. CT. 06525 SAPRILI.A, TESSARINO, MARY BETH, EVER SEE HIM-DON'T WEAR POP· 
LOST: Umbrela with long. light colored MARIA. KEITH. LARRY, FRANK, AND CORN THAT DAY EITHER! MK: YOU'LL 
oupon per order (order in­
FORSALE ]

wood handle and dark"'""COlton lebrlc. THAT'S WHAT FRIENDS ARE FOR EVERYONE! LOVE, ELLYN NEVER FIND OUT SO STOP ASKING! 
tudes total days ad is to of Weal Mntimenllll value plua it "­liEN liEN liEN So.,.-clru'* u-,O.Ve. KNOW? TEK: STOP LAUGHING, WE'LL 
loll wound the time of Then~ng. It Ia ................................................................ TAZZ: YOU ARE TOO COOL, DO YOU 
n). Offer expires Feb. 

me G-y and I have a c:okl. "'-e <all lor lllfe.beautilul condo In Semen LOVIE LOVE LOVE GET YOU SOONER OR LATER! STAY Swve K. at 1 788 or place w/ L.oat and Squ•e Eat. $79.900Cal Tina Mlll1< 674-liE Ill Ill 111-DI HUH I COOL CHICKS AND KEEP WONDER­
13, 1986. 

Found. 6676. I ING WHO THE MYSTERY MEN ARE! 
The Observer 

Sports Briefs 
Synchronized swimmers are asked to attend an organizational meetingThursday at 6:30 p.m. in the classroom ofthe Rolfs Aquatic Center. Anyone interested is welcome to attend. For more information call 283-5983. · The Observer 
A campus tug-of-war contest is being or­
ganized by the ND Promotions Dept. and Lee Jeans. Dormitory and class competitions will be held. Interested groups should begin to · assemble teatns. For more information call Kevin Lennon at 239· 6440. · Tbe Observer 
An interhall track meet will be held by the NVA on Wednesday, Feb. 19. For more information call NVA.. Tbe Obser­ver 
Weekend group rentals for the Rolfs Aquatic Center are now available through the NVA for ND and SMC groups. For details and rates call NVA at 239·5100. · Tbe Observer 
The NVA Century Club will give you a free t-shirt just for working out. Pick any activity and fill out a pledge card at the NVA office in the ACC. When you reach your self-proclaimed goal you can· redeem your log book for the free shirt. For more informa­tion call NVA. -Tbe Observer 
Alexis Arguello knocked out Billy Costello in the fourth round to to keep alive his hopes ofcapturing his fourth world tide. Arguello ended the scheduled 10-round bout a 1:42 of the fourth round with a flurry of punches. Costello had taken an eight cou~t at 1 :04 of the round after taking a right to the jaw. Arguello is seeking the WBC super lightweight crown currently held by Lonnie 
Smith. -AP 

Observer Sports Briefs are accepted sunday through Friday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor ofLafortune. Briefs should be submitted on the fortns available at the office, and every briefmust include the phone number ofthe person submitting it. -The Observer 
Monday, February 10, 1986 -page 10 

Blue Devils knock off Ga. Tech, set to host Notre Dame on Sunday 
DURHAM, N.C -Mark Alarie scored 24 points and Johnny Daw­kins added 22 as fourth-ranked Duke broke open a tight game early in the second half and beat second-ranked Georgia Tech 75-59 in an Atlantic Coast Conference game yesterday. 
The victory improved the Blue Devil's record to 22-2 overall and 9­2 in the ACC, a game behind top­ranked North Carolina. Georgia Tech has lost two of its last three, . both ACC games, and dropped to 18­4 and6-3. 
The Blue Devils travel to Stetson tomorrow before returning home to host the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame Sunday in a nationally­televised contest. 
The combination of a ball­hawking defense and Georgia Tech's cold shooting helped the Blue Devils race offon a 16-6 spree at the start ofthe second half. Alarie scored four straight baskets in the spurt, and it was his layup which capped the streak and gave Duke a 50-39 edge with I 5 :4I left to play. 
The Yellow Jackets got within 52­46 at the 9:55 mark on a Duane Fer­rell drive. But six straight Duke points pushed their edge to 62-49 with 5:49 left, and the lead grew as 
large as 68-53 on a Dawkins dunk with 3:25 remaining. The final score was Duke's biggest advantage. 
John Salley led Georgia Tech with I 7 points, while Mark Price scored I2, Bruce Dalrymple had 11 and Tom Hammonds 10. 
Georgia Tech committed 2I tur­novers, 12 in the second half, and cooled off to 46 percent from the field after shooting 56 percent in the first half. 
Duke shot 45 percent in the opening period, but warmed up to 60 percent in the second half and finished at 52 percent. 
novers and was unable to do any keteers were able to control the serious damage. Irish effectively was under the

Irish 
This inability to keep pace with boards. Spearheaded by power Notre Dame turned the game into an center Terri Coughman's 14

continuedfrom page 16 
early rout, giving the Irish a 51-35 rebounds, Xavier was able to out­

halftime margin and allowing senior rebound the Irish, 40·33. Although over the Musketeers. The 6-2 Bot· forward Trena Keys and teammates some of the difference can be at­ham's 25 points on IO-of-12 shoot· Lavetta Willis and Lynn Ebben an tributed to the unusual cir­ing and eight rebounds provided early exit to the bench for some rest. cumstances of the game (the Irish much of the crucial inside punch Keys wound up with 17 points in shot 67 percent from the floor), DiS· early, while the freshman guard only 21 minutes ofplay, while Willis tanislao expressed concern over this Toney came off the bench to score contributed 16 points. factor as her team prepares for much 20 points (9-of·ll shooting) and The only area in which the Mus-tougher conference play. add six assists to the winning cause. 
s-turdily's RMUita

"I think Diondra Toney was the 
Notre Dllme 104, X.vler 57 big difference in the game," noted 
Xllvler(57) Notre Dllme (104) DiStanislao. "She showed a lot of M FG-A FT·A R F P M FG-A FT·A R F p 
quickness and did a good job Phelan 19 4·9 ()-() 3 4 8 Keys 21 7-10 3-4 2 4 17 Durham 13 o-2 o-o o 3 o Willis 29 3-6 10.14 4 3 16
defensively, and she was excellent at 
Smith 24 2·9 ()-() 4 2 4 Botham 33 10.12 5-9 8 4 25

passing the ball around on the of· 
Meacher 22 1·3 ()-() 0 3 2 Gavin 26 4-6 4-6 3 0 12 fensive end." Long 32 5-10 3-3 3 2 13 Ebben 28 2-4 D-1 2 2 4 Toney and sophomore guard Fredrick 25 7·12 D-1 5 4 14 Kuhns 12 D-2 ()-() 3 1 0 Glanz 41-12·2214 Toney 20 9-11 2-8 3 1 20
Mary Gavin ( 12 points, 5 assists) did 
Sowers 21 2·6 2·2 1 5 6 Barron 15 3·5 ()-() 1 0 6 

an especially fine job in limiting Kastner 6 1-2 o-o o o 2 Morrison 8 1-2 2-4 4 2 4 Xavier's premier player, guard Leonard 6 1·3 0-1 3 4 2 200 39-58 26-46 30 17104 Deborah Long. While Long's 13 Palumbo 
2D-OD-0020 Coughman 25 1·3 2·3 14 5 4 
FG Pet. .672. FT Pet. • .565. Team

points were second only to 
Prebles 2 D-1 ()-() 1 0 0 rebounds • 3. Turnovers • 33. Assists • 22 teammate Maureen Fredrick ( 14 200 25-61 9-12 36 35 59 (Toney 6). Technicals ·none. 
points) for tops on the Musketeers' FG Pet. .410. FT Pet. • .750. Team Halftime • Notre Dame 51. Xavier 35. Offi· list, the 5-8 senior committed 9 tur· rebounds • 4. Turnovers • 33. Assists • 10 cials ·Chip Sobek, Bill Sorukas (both NSC), A 
(Sowers 5). Technicals ·none. ·169. 
The Obsen•er Notre Dam.: olfk.:. locat.:d on tht: third floor of Lafortun.: Student C.:nt.:r. an·.:pts dassified adv.:nising from<) a.m. until-4 p.m.. :\londav 

r------~ -------------------------------------~--·------~­
The Observer Monday, February 1 0, 1986 -page 11 
ND track team finishes 3rd in meet
Than~stoyou ... forALLOFUS • Unlt.tWIIU 
itworks... 

Good:l:ime.P,i.-z.OJ • ~~~entine.0pecTa.~. Sa~I•LoVE•)'ou· wTrHA HEART SHAPED Fu~t~J UNiQuE.'•1'\r ••1lizz.a...1 u:.L ICIOUS, •])~.'!!~!!:_ell ?Eif~K ~ DrL"ivny ONl£JIS HIIST 8E MAllE AM> ~io FOI\By Fu~.U"'. G-LT Yol.l'tO~Wit 'fN EA~y Ftr&uo.r~nl~dtl'l:~ ~~ ~~~~~ ORDER 8~ MAiL~ Stop~n and oiiOEIUrr G-ocxit~rre '¥~z:z.a, ~ PI.EA~E. t1AiLc.NrCIIS·!!9~M 8Jbfb!CrA&E" -5...,. 8oNo ~' . , \ l.Jl.-1883 ~ w'ILL ~L Y.l!,Y '!2 V[!!!'Y 0~ and~ -Y.: ~.....-­-­---­-~ .;& .;t ~Li•niN'T•­, ~E iNtWDE IIN'I HES~E You iWANT oN CAP..O I  

ByPETESKIKO 
Sports Writer 
Ten personal records were set by members of the Notre Dame track team in Friday's Indiana Intercol­legiate Track Meet held in West Laf.lyette, Ind. 
Head Coach Joe Plane watched as Notre Dame took third place out of an eleven team field. Only Indiana and Purdue outscored the Irish. 
"Overall, we were very pleased with the meet," said senior co­captain John McNelis. "A lot ofguys ran their best times of the year, and this was a great tune-up for the 
Central  Conference  meet  next  
week."  
The  Central  Collegiate  Con­ 
ference  meet  spans  five states'  

schools and normally provides the 
Irish with one of their biggest chal­

lenges ofthe year. 
Stand outs for the Irish on Friday 

were senior Jim Tyler and junior 
Rob Nobles. Tyler came back to 

West Lafayette to defend his first 
place showing in the 1500 meters of 
a year ago, and once again he was the 
first to break the tape. Nobles, who 
took second place at the outdoor In­
diana Intercollegiates last year, won 
the 500 meters on Friday. 
Middle-distance runner McNelis was nipped at the tape in the 800 meters, chopping a second offoflast year's time as he finished In 1 :52:15. Junior Mike Collins finished second in the 3000 meters, andJeffVan Wie finished third in the 1000 meters. 
Junior co-captain Joel Autry, who competed in the triple jump and the long jump in Friday's meet, is happy with the progress the team has made and feels that it's peaking at just the right time. 
"In about a month, we've got IC4A's," said the Fort Wayne, Ind. native, "and right now we're in a really good position to send a lot of guys. The IC4A's are big. It takes some quality Individuals to make them, and I'd say we'll be represented well there." 
The IC4A Championships are held in Princeton, N.J., on March 8 and 9, the week before the NCAA Indoor Championships. 
The Irish next run In the Central Collegiate Conference meet on February 14-1 5, in Madison, Wis., and then It's on to Bloomington for the Indiana TAC on Feb. 21. 

•
Tway wins playoff, Williams title 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO -Bob Tway escaped with a playoff victory yesterday -his first on the PGA tour -when Bernhard Langer missed a four-foot par putt on the second extra hole of the Shearson Lehman Brothers Andy Williams Open GolfTournament. 
Tway, 26 and in his second season on the tour holed his two-to-three foot putt for par after Langer, a West German who holds the Masters title, three-putted for bogey on the par-3 hole. 
Each completed 54-holes in this rain-shortened event at 204, 12 shots under par. Langer, winner of 1 7 international events, had a closing 68 and Tway had a hard­fought 69. 
Both made routine pars on the first playoff hole. On the next, Langer put his tee shot some 30 feet from the flag and 
Tway was about 20 feet from the cup. 
Langer ran his first putt some four­to-five feet beyond the cup, and Tway, with a chance to win, also missed. He went two-to-three feet past the cup. 
Langer, using a cross-handed grip and putting through the shadow ofa television tower, pushed his second putt to the right and, tight-lipped, tapped in for bogey. 
Tway holed his short one for the title and the winner's share of 181,000 from the total purse of 1450,000. 
Langer, who made up two shots over the last three holes, won 148,600. 
Langer, playing about 45 minutes in front ofTway, dropped an 18-foot birdie putt on the 16th hole of regulation to close within one stroke ofthe lead. 
Tway, in the lead alone, dropped 
back into a tie when he drove Into 
the rough, hit his second through 
the green and bogeyed the 17th. 
He holed a gritty, 6-to-8 foot second putt for par on the 18th that preserved a share of the lead and forced the playoff. 
Paul Azlnger, who once held the 
lead alone, Mark Lye and Mike Hul­
bert finished one shot out of the; 
playoff at 205. Hulbert had a closing 
67, Lye 69. 
Azinger, a second-year player, sur­rendered a chance for his first vic­tory when he snatched his tee shot into an unplayable lie on the 16th and made double bogey. He also had a last-round 69 in the chilly, sunny weather. 
Gary Koch, Larry Rinker and Gary Hallberg were another shot back at 
206. Hallberg and Koch closed up with 67s, and Rinker had a 68 on Torrey Pines' South course. 


-------------------·---~--~---~ ----~------------------------~----~ 
Monday, February 10, 1986 -page 1__2
The Observer 


/stab Thomas, shown here in an earlier regular-season game, scored 30 points to lead the East All-Stars to 139-132 victory over the West. Thomas, the game's MVP, also dished out 10 assists in the East's come-from-behind victory. Game details appear at right. 
Send your VALENTINE 
rose ora candygram 
277-5125 

THE FOUR WINDS GROUP FOR THEATRE 
•

• presents • • Oscar Wilde's classic comedy • THE IMPORTANCE OF BEING EARNEST: 
•• February 13,14, 15 7:45p.m. •• • $5.00/adults
:Science Hall Octorium $4.00Istudents
• 
Bethel College 

• 
senior citizens • • • • • • • • • • For reservations. call259-8511• • • • • • • • • .. 


Worthy scored I 0 points in a span ofless than four minutes as the West led for all but 24 seconds of the first 
six assists in the period as he attempted a spectacular time down the 
The West hit 13 ofits first 1 7 shots 1 1 turnovers in the first nine the East to stay 
Three baskets apiece by Philadel· 
Erving and Thomas helped the East cut a 14-6 deficit to 22-21 and the West settled for a 36­34 margin at the end ofthe quarter. 
English had eight points in less than 2-and-a-half minutes early in quarter and Abdul­to give the West its largest lead at 53· 
Bird, Saturday's three-point con­scored 12 points, including two three-pointers. 
something extra special 


The Observer Monday, February 10, 1986 -page 13 
Irish wrestlers drop matches with Purdue and Clemson 
find the range on his jumper. The senior forward scored two of his 16
Pearl 
points when his 12-footer gave the continuedfrom page 16 Irish a 15-141ead with 13:20 remain­
ing in the first half. a very unselfish player bUI you saw The Irish gradually expanded the today that when it comes to margin to 10, as Donald Royal showtlme. he can take over." scored two of his team-high 20 
It looked as though Washington points, canning a pair of foul shots may take over from the beginning, as with 4:08 left In the half. he used his superior strength to Notre Dame couldn't slam the draw two quick fouls on David door on the Orangemen, however, Rivers. The Irish then switched to a as Syracuse closed the margin to zone defense, protecting Rivers and four by the half. It started to look like shutting offSyracuse's inside game. the same old story on the road for 
Meanwhile, the Irish offense got the Irish. untracked, as Ken Barlow began to Washington started to dazzle in 
TUG -0­
WAR Contest 
*Audience giveaways 
* Class 'monster' division (no weight restrictions) 
How YOU can enter a team: 
Just fill out the application below and you can enter to represent your dorm. Male and female dorms will be teamed together. Team weight restrictions are 700 lbs. for women and 1,000 lbs. for men. SEND IN YOUR APPLICATION TODAY! 

APPLICATION FORM: 

Lee Jeans TUG-0-WAR Contest 
My dorm is ______________ Name'::;......__________Phone____ 
SEND TO: Kevin Lennon Sports Promotion Dircetor Department of Athletics 

A.C. C. Notre Dame. IN 46556 


IMPRESS THAT SPECIAL PERSON! 

Give them a suntan AND an acu-massage 
BED 10 visits $39.00 NEW! Acu-massage bed 1 visit $4.50 $3 per 15 minutes BOOTH 20 visits $39.00 Buy 3 visits, get one free 1 visit $2.00 
Call277-7026 
J.M.S. PLAZA 
4609 Grape Road

'IM-H~ 
Mishawaka 


Don't be Dull on Valentine's Day 
Send your valentines in on Observer display ad 
*Pictures •graphics. *your own wording 

deadline to submit display ads for February 14th Issue Is 1PM February 12th ~--Call239·5303 for details. 
that Kempton and Rivers missed them today when we won, Instead of in a loss. Both of those guys have won a lot ofgames for us in the past." 
On this snowy Saturday in central New York, however, there were plenty of heroes to take credit, and Phelps was generous in handing out the praise. 
"Everybody played well for us today," commented the Irish coach, who must prepare his team for tomorrow night's battle with Fordham at the ACC. "We never lost our composure, we did a good job on the boards and we made the key foul shots." 
And in the end, the foul shots won out over the foul language. 
IRISH ITEMS ... Washington was named the game's MVP ... Phelps passed along his condolences to Boeheim on the passing of the Syracuse coach's father. James Boeheim, 68, died Thursday after a long bout with cancer. 
Saturday'a RIIIUitl Notre Deme 85, SyncuM 81 
Notre O.me (85)  
M FG-A  FT-A  R  F  P  
Royal  28  3-7 14-17  7  3  20  
Bartow  30  5-9  6-7  B  3  16  
Kempton  31  4-6  1-3  7  4  9  
Rivers  34  3-9  8-9  3  4  14  
Stevenson  9  1-3  4-4  2  1  6  
Dolan  26  D-1  4-4  0  3  4  
Price  27  4-9  4-4  3  3  12  
Connor  3  o-1  o-o  o  o  o  

Voce 10-00.0100 Hicks 10 2-3 0-0 1 2 4 Beeuwsaert 1 o-o o-oooo 200 22-48 41-48 32 23 85 
FG Pet. • .458. FT Pet. • .854. Team rebounds -3. Turnovers -14. Assists -13 (Royal5). Technicals-none. 
SyncuM(81) 
M FG-A FT·A R F P Triche 30 3-5 3-4 2 5 9 Alexis 40 11-18 3-4 10 4 25 Seikaly 21 2-8 1-2 7 5 5 Addison 15 Q-3 0-0 0 2 0 Washington 38 12-24 4-9 1 5 28 Monroe 19 2-3 o-o 1 o 4 Walker 70.00-0130 Douglas 17 s-s o-o 2 1 10 Brower 12 D-1 0-0 2 5 0 Katz 1 o-o o-oooo 200 35-67 11-19 26 30 81 
FG Pet. .522. FT Pet. -.579. Team rebounds -8. Turnovers -8. Assists -17 (Washington 8). Technical& -2 (Addison, Syracuse bench). 
Halftime-Notre Dame 39, Syracuse 35. Of­ficials -John Moreau, Henry Armstrong, James Herring (all ACC). A-32,397. 
Boom 
continuedfrom page 16 
we play well, we can beat anybody. 
If.you can win here, you can win 
anywhere. 
While one road win doesn't make 
the Irish a Final Four team, this vic­
tory certainly should enhance Notre 
Dame's chances of being one of the 
top four seeds In a regional. 

The Proof 
Is In 
the Taste! 
Open Moa-5at 11 •• Saa4p• 
Plzza-&ndwlche~~-Salad8 
Beer& Wine 
277-2020 
l.oc:flled I•8oeelallff 
(N..ttoa••...,. 

By RICK RIETBROCK 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's wrestling team lost matches to Clemson and Purdue, but Irish head coach Fran McCann said that It was by no means a lost weekend. 
Even though his team's record fell to 'i-6, McCann said the Irish show signs ofstepping up to a higher level of quality that will enable them to compete with solid squads on a regular basis. 
"I really felt good about what our guys did outlhere," McCann said. "I saw some very positive things that show me we've come a long way. We've made a lot ofpro~ess." 
llnfortunately, the progress did not show up on the scoreboard against an experienced Purdue team, as the Irish were beaten soundly, 38-9. 
The only Irish victories came on decisions from freshmen Jerry Durso and Chris Geneser, and junior Dave Helmer. 
McCann said he knew Purdue was a talented squad, and they proved to be every bit as tough as he expected. 
"We expected Purdue to be a very good team and they were," he said. "They're a veteran team with five senior starters, and they really come at you." 
"I think they are probably the third best team in the Big Ten, but despite that there were some tough matches that could have gone either way. If we could have come out on top of those, it could have been a lot closer." 
Clemson came into the match ranked 20th in the nation and with three nationally-ranked wrestlers on its squad. The Irish wrestled very well against the Tigers before falling, 26-18. 
Notre Dame pulled out to an early lead when 118-pound Carl Hildinger won by forfeit and 126­pound Dave Carlin won by a 10-4 decision. 
Durso then defeated Clemson's Bobby Taylor by technical fall to raise his record to 33-6. The 33 vic­tories by the 134-pound freshman tied a Notre Dame record for wins in a season by a freshman previously set by Phil Baty in the 1981-82 season. . The Irish could get only one more victory, however. Dave Helmer scored a 7-3 decision at 190pounds. 
McCann said the Irish were very close to upsetting the Tigers. 
"We gave them a very good match," he said. "One match that was critical was at 167 pounds, where Geneser went against their guy who Is ranked No. 5 ( 26-3-1 Mike Pitts). Chris wreslted him tough and lost 7-6. 
"Ifwe win that one, the match can go either way." 
The three matches against Mic­higan State, Clemson, and Purdue in three days made up quite a demand­ing stretch for the Irish, but McCann said that type ofstretch is helpful in building a solid program. 
"We got banged up a little," he said. "It was quite a tough weekend, including Thursday at Michigan State, but we have to go through something like this to help our young team improve." 
The Irish will have some time to recover from the tough going they have endured in losing their last four matches. Next Saturday, they will travel to Bloomington to face In­diana. 

the second half, and Rivers was forced to the bench on his fourth foul with 12:43 remaining. The benching was short• lived, though, as Sherman Douglas' rebound goal brought Syracuse within one at 57­'i6. Phelps took a calculated risk, and Rivers reentered the lineup. 
Undaunted, the Orangemen con­tinued the comeback, taking a two­point lead at 67-65 when Washington banked home a leaning 12-footer with 6:13 left. Phelps called a timeout to settle his club down, and it worked. 
First, Tim Kempton scored a three-point play to give Notre Dame a lead it would never relinquish. Then the Irish proceeded to pad the lead with clutch foul shooting, hit­ting 13 of 1 7 down the stretch. 
Perhaps just as important was the fact Notre Dame snared the rebound on all four ofits misses, allowing the Irish to take more time offthe clock. 
Overall, Notre Dame collected 14 offensive rebounds on its way to out­rebounding Syracuse. The Oran­gemen had entered the game second in the NCAA in rebounding margin. 
"We work a lot on getting missed foul shots," noted Phelps. "I'm glad 
,--------------­
The Obserwr Monday, February 10,1986 -page 14 
Women's swimming sweeps dual meet with Valpo, UIC 
ByKATHLEEN McKERNAN 
Sports Writer 
"We swam very, very fast," Notre Dame swim coach Tim Welsh said of the women's swim team after its per­formance Friday night in the Rolfs Aquatic Center. In the double-dual meet, Notre Dame soundly defeated Valparaiso, 67-46, and Illinois­Chicago, 71-42. 
With the wins, the Irish raised their record to 7-2, but more impor­tantly they came together more completely as a team and gained im­ponant experience in champion­ship events. 
"A couple of very important things happened in these meets," coach Welsh said. "First, we made substantial time drops. Second, we swam two new events." 
Those events were the 1650-yard freestyle and the 400-yar<l in­dividual medley. Usually in dual meet competition, teams compete in 1000-yard races instead of the 1650. In the upcoming champion­ships, however, the Irish will com­pete at the 1650 distance. Friday's meet gave them an opportunity to prepare for the championships in that event. 

"What was exciting about that event was that not only did we swim it fast, we swam it well," an ob­viously pleased Welsh said. "We balanced the smaller parts of the long race very well." 
Notre Dame's two 1650 swim­mers, Anne Costello and Sarah Vak­kur took first and second places respectively, with less than six seconds difference between the times in the long event. And while only Costello and Vakkur placed highly in the event, the fact that the team was able to compete success­fully in the new event gave everyone a big boost ofconfidence, according to Welsh. 
Sophomore Amy Darlington of Fairfield, Ohio, also contributed strong swims to Notre Dame's cause on Friday. Darlington swam the 400­individual medley in 4:48.64, a new Irish record. 
"Amy's success and the 1650 race were the most significant swims as far as indicating coming champion­ship performances," Welsh said. 
Jean Browne, a freshman from Al­lentown, Pa., turned in strongswims in the 100-yard freestyle race and the 200-yard freestyle relay. In the 100 freestyle, her :57.93, which she swam in exhibition, would have won first place ho~10rs. She also par­ticipated in the relay with the fastest 
Men's swimming downs Ferris St. 
BySCOTT INGLIS 
Sports Writer 
A determined Notre Dame men's swim team met the men from Ferris State Saturday and came away with a big 78-35 victory at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. The win, which came in Notre Dame's last home meet of the year, lifted the team's record to 4-5 and served as a sign to Head coach Tim Welsh that his team is coming together at the right time with the Midwest Collegiate Con­ference championships just a few weeks away. 
"The exciting thing is that we won one and won one big," said Welsh. "This was the kind of meet that the team really needed. It was good for moral, good for confidence and good for the upcoming champion­ships." 
Notre Dame started the meet well and never looked back, taking the first event, the 400-yard medley relay in 3:39.53, in a time that was almost three seconds faster than any previous time this season. 
"That has been a meet goal for us for some time," said weish. "This is the first time we have led a meet from the beginning. It was an awfully big lift to start off the meet 7-0." 
Things only got better from there for the lrisp, as the men took first place in nine ofthe eleven events on the day from Ferris State and led the meet from start to finish. Welsh at­tributed his teams success to key swims combined with other cir­cumstances. 
"We were a little faster today than we have been, and they were a little slower," noted Welsh. "Butwe knew we had to swim well to win. Everyth­

NEED 
MONEY FOR 
COLLEGE? 
• 
Scholarships 

• 
Fellowships 


• Grants • Awards 
• Loans 
GUARANTEED RESULTS 
5-25 Sources or YOUR MONEY BACK 
U nderg rad uate (College, Professional, Technical) 
Graduate, Athletic 
STUDENT AID SERVICES 
55801 East Avenue P.O. Box 931 Mishawaka, IN 46545 (219) 291-8439 


variables turning out in our favor. Those things combined made for the lopsided score." 
Exceptional performances for the Irish were turned in by double· winners John Koselka and John Cof­fey. Koselka, a freshman, took first place in both the 50-yard free style and the 1 00-yard free-style with 
times  of  21:97  and  49:65  
respectively  to  boost  the  Notre  
Dame effort.  

Coffey,a senior co-captain, came through with a win in the 200-yard free style with a time of 1:49.80 and the 200-yard backstroke in 2:06.06 to lead the Irish. 
With thf" meet well in hand at the end, Notre Dame was able to have a little fun, putting together an all­senior team for the last event -the 400-yard free relay. Although the team was edged out by Ferris State at the end, Coach Welsh felt it was a good way to end the meet and the home season.. 

"This was a nice way for the seniors to end up their careers here," Welsh said. "Now we are looking ahead to our meets next week against Illinois-Chicago and Northern Illinois. With the win today, our two primary goals for the season, a winning record and a win at the conference meet in Evansville, are well within reach." 

VILLAGE GREENHOUSE, North Village MalL  (2191 272-5335  
FLOWER MARKET, Buyer's Marketplare.  (219) 272~2  
'  
· \}o\entttle s oY  

flowers 
We have the best prices Delivery anywhere 
14"LARGE THIN CRUST PIZZA •
• 

any topping with extra cheese : • 
PLUS Garlic Bread with cheese 
DeUvery Orders Only 
• 
(plus delivery and tax)
$6.99 

• 
......, ..______
52929u.s.31 J'llarth 
•

Good/orSundays and Mondays •
•

only •itla coupon 
time of 1:43.62. 
"One good thing about this meet was seeing Jean Browne come around," said Welsh. "That was just terrific." 
Junior Suzanne Devine, the Notre Dame record holder in many of the butterfly and freestyle events, also had an excellent meet. She finished first in the 1 00-yard butterfly and dropped under two minutes in the 200 freestyle. 
Coach Welsh was especially pleased, however, with the way the team has pulled together as a unit recently. 
"The team has really staned to jell over the past few weeks," Welsh said. "A couple of things have been important to our recent successes. First, we've had considerably im­proved performances, which builds .~u,•unn:u,Lr.. Second, we've had some easy wins, which makes things easier during our most competitive meets." 
The women swimmers had faced Valparaiso and Illinois-Chicago in the season at the Notre Dame Relays, yet they still really did not know what to expect. Valparaiso came into the meet with an undefeated dual-meet record of 8-0 after finish­ing with a 5-8 mark last year. They also had beaten five teams that they lost to last year. 
"It was important that our swim­mers were relaxed and comfortable for this meet." Welsh said. 
The relaxed Notre Dame women dominated Valparaiso and Illinois­Chicago. Near the end, when an Irish victory was assured, Notre Dame relaxed even more and let the other two swim more or less against each other. 

EVERY FRAIVIE• 
Right now; when you buy prescription lenses* at NuVision, 
you'll get up to 600fo off on every eyeglass frame in our entire 
collection-no exceptions. 
Plus we'll include a choice of glass or plastic lenses, 
oversize lenses. or extra strong prescriptions at no additional 
cost. Now you can buy the glasses you want with all these 
extras at our lowest prices. 
And you can save on contacts. Starting at: 
Clear Tinted
539 579
Daily-wear Daily-wear 
Clear Extended-wear 
564 
SOFT MATE E.W. Eye examination extra. Available by independent licensed optometrists. 
•Offer good at participating offices onl)t Some restncbons app~ 

Copyright 1986. NuVision, Inc. 
LaSalle Square 234·3123 Unive11ity Park Mall277·8682 
McKinley Town I Country 256·1864 Elkhart Mall-Elkhart 295·2496 Plymouth Center-Plymouth 936·5012 1012 Main St.-Niles 684·8008 


~t(Jt4CilC3L~---------------------------------------M-o_n_d_a_y_,F_e_b_ru_ary
___lo_,_19_8_6_-_p_a_ge---15 

Bloom County Berke Breathed 




Order Valentine's Flowers Early 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Neiman Arthur 5 Conceals 
10 Large mop 14 Rich soli 15 Upand­
(actlve) 16 Washed out 17 Hindu woman's 
garment 18 Cunning 19 Piedmont city 20 Route 
westward 23 Term of 
endearment 24 Regret bitterly 25 Shrewd 27 Demurred 32 Glance over 33 Barnyard sound 34 Son of Isis 36 Metal bar 39 Kind of en· 
glneer: abbr. 41 Egypt's Anwar 43 Sicilian 
volcano 44 Desert 

C>t986 Tnbune Med1a Services. Inc. 

Friday's Solution 
wanderer 46 Four: pre!. 5 Electric 48 Mo. generators 49 Energy cartel 6 Adjoin 51 Ocean routes 7 Evening In 53 Movie houses Paris 56 Liquid meas-8 Pre-Soviet 
ures: abbr. landlord 57 Bankbook abbr. 9 Mugs 58 Baking tuber 10 Health resort 64 Twofold 11 US president 66 Eat away 12 Ill. city 67 Secondhand 13 Person 68 Sea eagle 21 That hurtsI 69 Swlnellke 22 Places 
70 Fork point 27 Forwarnlng 71 Interpret 28 Philippine 72 Climbs up knife 

73 Diner sign  29 Super Bowl name  42 Certain  2/10/86 55 Singer Vaughan  
DOWN  30 Part of QED  hunters  59 Pueblo Indian  
1 As well  31  Western  45 Lesser: pref.  60 Norse deity  
2 Do gliding 3 Famous race  greenhorns 35 Surfeit  47 Singing voice 50 West Pointers  61  Part of Old World  
loser  37 Formerly  52 Shrewd  62 Campout  
4 Displaced person  38 Makes lace 40 Dracula garb  53 Juice drink 54 Become used to  63 Plndar works 65 Showed the way  

Campus 
•12:00 
P.M. Lecture, "A Personal Perspective on the Nicaraguan-U.S. Conflict," Edgar Chamoro, former CONTRA director, Room 101 Law School, Sponsored by Social Justice Forum 

•3:30 
P.M. ·Computing Minicourses, "New Features ofSAS, Part 1:" Room 11 5 Computing Center and "Nota Bene Wordprocessing, Part I": Room 104 Computing Center 

•7:00 
P.M. · Movie, "Nicaragua: No Pasaran," 

•7:00 
P.M.· Presentation by a representative of the Boeing Company, Room 12 Aerospace Building, Sponsored by AIAA Student Chapter 

•7:00 
P.M.· Meeting, organizational meeting of the Overseas Development Network, 


Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by  Kel­ 
logg  Institute  and  Communications  and  
Theatre Dept., $1.50  

Dinner Menus 

Notre Dame Dublin Broil Creamed Chicken over Patty Shell Cannelloni with Italian Sauce Ground Beef Hoagie 
TV Tonight . 
6:00P.M. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 
6:30P.M. 16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBS Evening News 28 ABC World News Tonight 
7:00P.M. 16 MASH 22 Three's Company 28 jeopardy 
7:30P.M. 16 Barney Miller 22 WKRP In Cincinnati 28 Wheel of Fonune 
8:00P.M. 16 TV Bloopers and jokes 22 Scarecrow and Mrs. King 28 Hardcastle & McCormick 34 Wonderworks 
8:30P.M. 46 Calvary Temple 9:00P.M. 16 NBC Monday Night Movie: "An Officer and a Gentleman" 
22  Kate &Allie  
28  ABC  Monday  Night  Movie:  
.,Harem"  

9:30P.M. 
10:00 P.M. 
10:30P.M. ll:OOP.M. 
11:30P.M. 
!2:00A.M. 
Center for Social Concerns Coffee Room 
•7:00 
P.M.· Panel, Campus Ministry Panel on Divorce, Linda Benedict, , South Bend, Stapleton Lounge, Saint Mary's, Sponsored by Saint Mary's Campus Ministry 

•7:00 
P.M. · Lecture, Black Cultural Arts Fes· tival Lecture, Dick Gregory, Library Auditorium 

•7:00 
& 9:20 P.M. ·Movie, "The Rose Tattoo," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by English Dept. 

•7:30 
P.M.· Faculty Senate Meeting, Room 202 Center For Continuing Education 

•9:00 
P.M. · Movie, "Paisan," Annenberg Auditorium 

•1 
0:00P.M. ·Prayer, Pax Christi Prayer at the 


Grotto, 
Saint Mary's Grilled Pork Chops Potato Pancakes French Bread Pizza Stuffed Fish Creole 
34 American Playhou~: "Huck Finn" 
46 LeseaAlive 
22 Newhart 
22 Cagney & Lacey 
34 Actors Theaue Presents: "The Eye ofthe Beholder" 
46 Church Growth International 
46  Ught and Uvely  
22 28 34 46 16 22  Eyewitness News Newswatch 28 Body Electric Praise the Lord NewsCenter 16 Remington Steele  ·  CBS  Late  

Movie: "Chu-Chu and the Philly 
Rash" 28 ABC News Nlghtline 34 Star Trek 16 Tonight Show 28 Eye on Hollywood 


-------~-~­
-~ -~ -----~ ----~ -----------------~-­
Monday, February 10,1986 -page 16

S~orts 
Notre Dame topples No.8 Syracuse, 85-81 
Irish women whip Xavier, will face UIC tonight 
Irish silence crowd, sink 41-of-48 from line 
By CHUCK FREEBY 
Sports Writer 

SYRACUSE, N.Y.-The Syracuse University student body has a questionable "tradition" of yelling an obscenity after an op­ponent makes a free throw. 
It had a chance to practice that obscenity and a lot of others Saturday, as No. 14 Notre Dame upset seventh-ranked Syracuse, 85-81, before a crowd of 32,397, third-largest in Carrier Dome history. 
The Irish, now 16-4, won this game where they have won so many others this season -at the free throw line. Notre Dame converted a school-record 41 of 48 attempts from the foul line to snap the Orangemen's 15-game home winning streak. 
"That's part ofour offense", noted Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps, who watched his team play some ofits best basketball of the year. "We want to get to the line. We work a lot on getting the ball inside during practice so we can draw the foul." 
That's precisely what the Irish did all day, as they took advantage of injuries to Syracuse's Rafael Addison and Rony Seikaly. With those two frontcourt players out of the lineup, Notre Dame's big men had a field day inside. 
"We wanted to take it to them," noted Phelps. "We played really aggressive, and we felt we could exploit that weakness. 
"We knew Seikaly liked to block shots but we felt ifwe took it right at him, we could get him in foul trouble. That was our game plan, to get them in foul trouble." 
It worked, too, as four Orangemen fouled out ofthe contest, which dropped Syracuse to 18-3. Still, Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim didn't think it was all because ofNotre Dame's play. 
At first, Boeheim declined to comment on the officiating, which resulted in a technical foul for the Syracuse coach with 24 seconds left. Calls enraged both coaches throughout the course of the ballgame, and Boeheim went on to make some statements which were less than complimentary ofthe Atlantic Coast Conference crew. 
"Somebody got us in foul trouble," hinted Boeheim. "It was physical at one end, and at the other end, everything we did was a foul. I don't mind a physical game, if it's the same on both ends." 
The contest wasn't all physical, though, as some outstanding guard play by Syracuse's Dwayne "Pearl" Washington kept the Orangemen in the game. 
Washington tied a season-high with 28 points, many of them coming on jump shots with a hand in his face. His scoring along with eight assists left both coaches looking for superlatives. 
"Dwayne played an exceptional game tonight," said Boeheim. "He kept us in the game almost singlehandedly." "Pearl's the next Oscar Robertson," exclaimed Phelps. "He's 
see PEARL, page 13 
ByMARTY BURNS 
AssistantSports Editor 

You could say the Notre Dame women's basketball team blew out Xavier Saturday afternoon at the ACC, but you'd be wrong. 
That's because "blow out" would be much too mild a term to describe Notre Dame's 104-57 massacre of the Lady Musketeers. Call it a thrash­ing, a pounding, or maybe just an ut­ter subdual by a clearly overwhelming force. 
Whatever you call it, Irish head coach Mary DiStanislao called it an impressive win for her team, now 13-7 on the year and 6-1 in the North Star Conference. 
"I think it was just a case ofa team that was really ready to have a good game," said DiStanislao, who saw her team's 17-game NSC winning streak end last Wednesday against Dayton; "The Dayton loss last week was a very difficult loss for us. I think the team was ready to put it behind us." 
Notre Dame will have the oppor­tunity to add another victory to its record tonight when it faces the Uni­versity of Illinois (Chicago) in Chicago. The match tonight with the 9-12 Flames will be the last non­conference game of the season for the Irish before they begin their seven-game stretch towards a second consecutive NSC title. 
Notre Dame should be in good emotional straits for that stretch drive after its domination of Xavier on Saturday. Five Irish players scored In double figures as the host team rolled to its most lopsided vic­tory since a 107-61 win over the same Xavier team last year. 
Strangely enough this win on Saturday occurred despite the fact that Notre Dame was hurting for the battle, as key bench-players Heidi Bunek and Kathy Brommeland sat out the game because ofillness. This loss ofbench strength, coupled with a fiat opening by the Irish, seemed to bode well for Xavier's hopes at least to keep the game close. 
But even those minor hopes were shattered soon after when it became apparent that the Musketeer offense could not contend with the quicker, taller Irish defense. And while the Xavier backcourt was being stymied in its attempts to get the ball inside (the Musketeers committed 3"3 tur­novers on the day), Notre Dame was getting easy shots underneath on the other side. 
"l think it took us a few minutes to get started," said DiStanislao. "I think we were a little flat and we weren't getting good defensive play. But even though we were a bit shor­thanded without Bunek and Brom­meland, we still knew we'd be able to get the ball inside." 
Irish players Sandy Botham and Diondra Toney must have known this also, as the two showed no mercy in directing the onslaught 
see IRISH, pa~e 10 


Syracuse forward Wendell Alexis scored 25 points in a losing effort, asNotre Dame downed the Orangemen, 85-81. Alexisplayed all40 minutes of the game and pulled down a team-high five rebounds. Chuck Freeby details the victory in his story at left and tells what the game meant to the Irish in his story at right. 
-·~ 
-~~< 

Notre Dame's Diondra Toney found the going tough inside on this trip down the court. This was as tough as tt got for the Irish, though, as they 
ND dominates inside, Price puts end to slump 
By CHUCK FREEBY 
Sports Writer 
SYRACUSE, N.Y.-Boom, boom, boom. 
That's what it sounded like inside the Carrier Dome all day Saturday, as No. 14 Notre Dame beat Syracuse like a bass drum on its way to an 85-81 upset ofthe seventh-ranked Orangemt:n. 
Boom. 
That's the sound of the Irish frontline pounding away on the inside. The fearsome foursome of Ken Barlow, Donald Royal, Tim Kempton and Jim Dolan not only made major contribu­tions on offense, but they took away the Orangemen's inside game on defense. A tenacious zone defense limited center Rony Seikaly to five points and shut out Syracuse's leading scorer, Rafael Addison, who was already bothered by a sore ankle. 
"We dominated the inside all day and dominated the outside when we had to," noted Irish coach Digger Phelps. "Ken Barlow came through for us today, Joseph Price came through for us, and we just got a good team effort." 
Price was particularly satisfied with his performance. Phelps made it no secret at last Thursday's press conferenc he was un­happy with Price's play, but the senior guard responded with 12 points and 28 solid minutes ofplay. 
"Considering the slump I've been in, I'm happy Coach still had the confidence in me and let me play," said Price. "When I hit my first shot, it took a little of the pressure off me. As everybody says, when I hit my first one, I'm on the road." 
Boom. 
That's the sound of noise reverberating through the massive Carrier Dome. A crowd of 32,397-some of them sitting at least 70 yards away from the playing floor with an obstructed view ­made noise all day long. All the yelling, however, failed to in· timidate the Irish. 
"We couldn't let the fans dictate to us at the free throw line," noted Royal, who connected on 14-of-1 7 from the foul stripe. "We knew we had to do well at the line." 
Notre Dame did just that, setting a school record and a Car­rier Dome record by connecting on 41 of 48 free throws. 
Boom. 
That's the sound of Notre Dame knocking on the door of the 
NCAA tournament. Saturday's win left little doubt in the minds of many that the Irish could be a force come March. 
"We deserve to be ranked," emphasized Phelps after the game. "I know a lot of people question that, but I think today gives us credibility. This is a win that could only help us in March." 
"The victory means a great deal to me," added point guard David Rivers. "It's great to beat a ranked team. We proved that if 
see BOOM, page 13 
The Obsen'er/Hannes Hacker 
thoroughly whipped Xavier, 104-57. Toney scored 20points and banded out 6 assists in Notre Dame's romp. Marty Burns bas the game story at left. 


