
WVFI-AM -page 7 

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 19,1986 VOL.XX NO. 11S an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Huddle to close as LaFortune renovations continue 
I  By ALEX PELTZER Senior StaffReporter  vices available for studf:nts, especially during the exam  be sold, including and candy bars.  magazines  
period," said Hickey.  In the P line of the North Din­ 
He said the Huddle will  re­ ing Hall will be pizza and ham­ 
Students returning from spr­ main closed until next fall, when  burger facilities,  an  ice  cream  
ing break will find much of the  the  renovations  on  LaFortune  counter, and  a juke box. This  
LaFortune Student Center clos­ are scheduled for completion.  area  will .also be open from 7  
ed, as renovation work will start  Hickey said that none of the  p.m. to 1 a.m.  
Friday afternoon on the Huddle  workers in the Huddle will lose  .rHickey said the entire Huddle  
and Deli areas.  their  jobs  as  they  will  either·  grill will be demolished so that  
The lounge areas in the base­ work in the newly located areas  renovations for the new area can  
ment and on the first floor will  or in the dining halls themselves.  continue.  He  said  among  the  
remain open, as well as student  Hickey said the services pro­ renovations are plans to create a  
offices.  The  services  provided  vided in the South Dining Hall  separate  space  for  the  
by  the  Huddle  and  the  Deli,  include  the  Oak  Room  being  Leprechaun  Pizza  Company.  
however,  will  be  moved  to  open  from  7 p.m.  to  1  a.m.  The  new  plans  call  for  a  sit  
TheOboerver!Bob Jona, North and South Dining Halls,  seven  days  a  week.  He added  down facility with booths where  
Work on the IaFortune addition is schedu led to continue during according to Bill Hickey, direc­ that there will be a limited edi­ only pizza and calzone will be  
break, as the Huddle closes Friday for the  rest of the term. The tor of University Food Services.  tion of the deli in a section of the  served.  ·  
renovations are scheduled to be completed right.  by next fall. Story at "Our main concern is that we want to make sure there are ser­ dining hall, where the most popular items from the deli will  see HUDDLE, page 5  


Miklos, N onnenkamp take classes; run-off for sophomore offices 
By CLIFF STEVENS 
News Staff 
Single tickets for the senior and junior class offices found themselves in the winner's circle last night, but two sophomore class of­fice tickets and two off-campus commissioner candidates will finish their races in a run-off tomorrow. 
Dave Miklos, Melissa Moody, Fred Nelson, and Ed LaHood were elected to senior class offices, while Cathy Nonnenkamp, Mike Kurowski, plizabeth Kennedy, and Sean Doyle were victorious in the junior class contest. 
The sophomore class office ticket of Pat Cooke, Theresa Bar­shart, Chris Ann Downes, and John Ruhlin will go up against the Patrick Creadon, Erica Hinkel, Tom DiResta, and Sam Bailey ticket in a run-off race tomorrow, as neither ticket received the more than 50percent of votes required to win by Ombudsman rules. 
Off-campus commissioner can­didates Steve Taeyaerts and Tracey "Race" Thoman will likewise battle in tomorrow's run-off. 
Senior Class President-elect Miklos said he was "thrilled" with the results and thanked the junior class. 

"We will do all we promised and make next year the best senior year ever," said Miklos. 
"We have lots of ideas already in mind, but lots of room for other peoples' ideas too," said Junior Class President-elect Nonnenkamp who called the election results "wonderful." 
Sophomore class run-off presidential hopeful Cooke said his ticket will do "the best we can as we've been doing" in campaigning for Thursday's run-off. 
"We feel we're the most ex­perienced ticket," he said. 
Run-off opponent Creadon said the first election "just doesn't say much." 
"All is to be decided Thursday and we feel our ticket is just a little bit more down to earth," said Cooke. 
Off-campus commissioner run­off candidate Steve Taeyaerts said he "likes being the underdog," and hopes to meet more people in his run-off campaign efforts. 
"But I hope there's enough peo­ple around here Thursday to vote," he said. 
Opposing run-off candidate Tracey "Race" Thoman said "I'm one person against four, but I've held every possible position off­campus and have more 'ex­perience." 
Miklos' senior class office ticket recieved 595 votes, 63 percent of the votes cast, while Mark Foley's defeated ticket recieved 356 votes, or 37 percent. 
Nonnenkamp's junior class of­fice ticket received 627 votes, or 66 percent while Matthew Dolan's defeated ticket received 321 votes, or 34 percent. 
Cooke's sophomore class ticket received 322, or 27 percent, of the votes cast yesterday, while Creadon's received 173, or 14.5 percent. 
The defeated sophomore class office tickets were George Molin­sky, with 11.7 percent of the votes cast, Michael Keegan, with 11 :3 percent Liam Brennan, with 11.2 percent, Stephen Shake, with 7.6 percent, Mike Moynihan, with 6.8 percent, Michael Kelly, with 5.6 percent, and Kris Malaker, with 4.3 percent. 
Off-campus commissioner can­didate Tracey "Race" Thoman received 132 votes, 45 percent of the votes cast, and candidate Steve Taeyaerts received 92 votes, 32.2. percent of the vote. 
Defeated off-campus commis­sioner candidate Mark Peabody received 64 vote or 22.2 percent. 
The voter turnout percentages were not officially tabulated as of last night, according to Om­budsman Election Officer Tom Brennan. 


ThltOblln'•IBob J,_ 
. Candidates and friends celebrate wins in last night's class and senate elections. Above left: new senior class officers (from left to right) Ed LaHood, Melissa Moody, Fred 
Nelson and Dave Miklos flash victory smiles. Below left: new junior class officers (front left to right) Mike Kurowski, Cathy Non­nenkamp, and Elizabeth Kennedy celebrated their win as Vince Willis looks on. Above: John Gardiner, new district 2 senator, is con­gratulated by a friend. Stories below and /tift. 

Close races decide senate offices; off~campus district tun-off slated 
By BUD LUEPKE 
StaffReporter 
Yesterday's Student Senate elec­tions yielded close races, including one run-off in the off-campus district. Official voter turn-out was not posted. 
Brian Holst defeated Pat Kiernan in district 1, capturing 63 percent of the vote. Holst said that he thought both he and Kiernan ran good cam­paigns but he said, "I think my ex­perience gave me the edge." 
Holy Cross gave resident H:>lst the most votes with 92. Kiernan, also a resident of Holy Cross, received 37 votes from that hall. Holst won every hall in the district. Kiernan came closest in St. Edward's, pull­ing 20 votes to Holst's 28. 
District 2 produced a narrow vic­tory for Stanford's John Gardiner who defeated Cavanaugh residents Tom Vasti and Pete Witty. "I think I got my main support from people who were tired of hearing promises and not seeing them come true," Gardiner said of his election. "I did not set forth promises but ideas," he said. 
Gardiner barely escaped a run­off by pulling 51.1 percent of the vote to Witty's 28.7 percent and Vasti's 20.2 percent. Gardiner was a big winner in Keenan with 119 votes to 38 and 20 votes for Witty and Vasti, respectively. Vasti did not win any of the halls in the district while Witty won his own hall as well as Breen-Phillips. 
In district 3, John Bauer was the biggest senate winner with 66 per­cent of the vote, defeating Andrew Vierhile. In response to his victory, Bauer said, "I am looking forward 
see SENATE, page 3 

--~--~-~---------­
The Observer 
Wednesday, March 19, 1986-page 2 
-


In Brief 
' 
Hall shirts designed for the residents of a Michigan State University hall are eliciting mixed feelings from the men who are supposed to wear them. The front of the shirts say, ''We draw the line at ugly women," while the back of the shirts bear a drawing of a "pig lady" with a red line running through it. ''This is a college," one resident said. ''You expect more maturity."-The Observer 
Of Interest 
John Kennedy, Irish singer, will be the guest on . WVFI-AM's Campus Perspectives tonight from 10-11. Lynne '-Strand will interview him on his singing, travels in Chile and Europe, and political beliefs. Some of K,ennedy's newly recorded songs will be featured. Calls from listeners will be taken at 239­6400. -The Observer 
"Chemistry in Heteroeenous Media" will be 
the topic of a symposium sponsoredby the Notre Dame depart­ment of chemistry. The symposium is scheduled for today at 1:45 in Room 123 of Nieuwland Science Hall, honoring Professor J. Kerry Thomas as the Julius A. Nieuwland Professor of Science. Thomas will be the first of four speakers to address the sym­posium. -The Observer 
The Circle K Club of Notre Dame will elect officers for the 1985-86 school year tonight at 6:15 in the Center for Social Concerns. Club photos will also be taken. -The Observer 
The Incarnation of Christ will be the topic of a lecture given tonight by Thomas Morris, professor of philosophy. The lecture will be held at 7 in Room 215 of O'Shaughnessy. The lecture is sponsored by the Thomas More Society. -The Observer 
Spiritual Rock will hold a Christian Fellowship meeting tonight at 7 in Keenan/Stanford Chapel. Elections for president will be held during the meeting. All are welcome. -the Observer 
Engineers' week will take place April 3 through April 
5. A schedule of events is forthcoming  to all students.  -The  
Observer  
•  

The shuttle between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will run its regular schedule on Friday, March 21, stopping at 9 p.m. instead of midnight. The regular schedule will resume Tuesday, April1, 1986 at 7:30a.m.-The Observer · 
Several prominent scholars will take part in-a conference entitled "Catholic Social Teaching and the Common Good: A Symposium on the Challenges for Democratic Capitalism" April 14 to 16 at Notre Dame. A central concern of the conference will be the relationship between two themes of the second draft of the United States Catholic Bishops' pastoral letter on the American economy, the "common good" and the "preferen­tial option for the poor."-The Observer 

Weather 
Snow cancels classes? It's a 
possibility. A 40 percent chance of s)lowers to­day with highs in the upper 30s to low 40s. A 30 percent chance of snow showers tonight with lows in the low to mid 20s. Partly sunny and cold tomorrow with highs in the low to mid 30s. -AP 


== _ Ihe_--ObserYer-­

The Observer is continuing to ex­perience typesetting difficulties in the daily operation of the newspaper. The staff apologizes for any delays or production er­rors. The situation will be amended as soon as possible. 
The ObKrver ( l 'Sf'S ~99 l--1000) is published .\londay through ~rida) ext·ept durin!( exam and \'acation periods lbrObserver i~tt puhli~hed h\· the Mudent~ oft he l niver!ttll\' of Notrr !>arne and Saint Mar)''s College. Subscription• ~ay he purt·haM:'d for SW pr~ year ( llO prr semester I hy writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q. Nmre Dame. Indiana 
~6~~6. 
The Observer is a membrr of The Associated Prrss. All reproduction rights are 
rr..-'"Vro. 


Alcohol policy accepted, but has it achieved its object? 
Whatever happened to ... the alcohol policy? 

It used to be the number one topic of conversation around here-in the Observer's P.O. Box Q, over the lunch tables, at the parties on Friday nights. It was difficult to get into a conversation and not talk about it. Funny. how things change. 
The fact is students pretty much have gotten used to the alcohol policy by this point. In fact, half the stu­dent body wasn't even here when the policy was first announced. 
Half the student body missed the impromptu late­night rally in front of Corby Hall, when students tried to address the administration with chants of "Ted, come out and play." Half ihissed the storming of the Administration Building, the national news coverage, the student unrest. 
And then there's the other half of us. The veterans. 

We were here for the pre-policy days -the dorm­wide happy hours on Friday afternoons, the room parties, the Beaux Arts Ball. We hardly ever had to leave campus to find something to do. We usually on­ly had to walk down the hall or around campus. Un­fortunately, most things to do involved drinking. 
And then there were the protests themselves. They were a lot of fun, but in the end they turned out to be a lot of noise and not much substance. Sure, the students were able to win a couple of concessions. We got rid of the rule that said students' rooms were never supposed to have twice the number of people who liv­ed in the room at any one time, and the rule that said all alcohol brought on campus had to be in paper bags. But they were silly rules to begin with. 
Many speculated that the administration put those rules in the new policy only because they wanted to be able to appease the students by later agreeing to drop them. Only Father Hesburgh and his hairdresser know for sure. 
What remains is a campus social life vastly different than what it was like just more than two years ago. Or is it? 
Off campus bars -those that are left, anyway -are more crowded on weekends, and house parties are always jam-packed. 
And, of course, the administration's liability is greatly decreased. 
But has the alcohol problem on campus really been improved any by the alcohol policy? Are any fewer students really drinking too much, or has it all just been moved somewhere else? Is campus social life any less centered on alcohol? 
Unfortunately, things have probably not improved as much as the administration would have hoped. 
Sure, student activities has tried to provide alter­natives for campus social life. A ventriloquist act. A magician. Fireworks. Big concerts at the ACC. Oops, scratch that last one. 
When we all leave Notre Dame -and we're all going to do that sooner or later -we'll have to deal with fin­ding our own fun. We're all going to have to make decisions for ourselves. about whether to go to the tavern to have fun or find some other social alter-
Dan McCulllough 
News Editm 

native. And what has the alcohol policy trained us to do? Look for a ventriloquist. Then go to a bar. 
Okay, enough griping. Here's some ideas to im­prove things: get some real campus alternatives for the students. There's no reason Stepan Center has to lie dormant every weekend. Put a good band in there -a diversity of bands. Spend some money, don't be shy. 
Next, build a viable undergraduate club~ It should be at least as big as Senior Bar since there are three times as many undergraduates as seniors. Make it a nice place for underage students to get together for dancing, sec:ing entertainers, and having some fun socializing. 
Run bus tlrips to Chicago every weekend. The third­largest city in America offers a world of cultural and social opportunities. 
Given some real choices, many students would flock to some wet:kend entertainment events. look, for ex­ample, at how students had to be turned away from the doors of such popular movies as "Apocalypse Now" and "Rambo." The market is there. Capitalize on it. 
Of course, activities planners aren't splely to blame. Students have to try to look beyond the parties and bars every weekend. We all could use a dose of responsibility. Oh, well. 
After more than two years, Notre Dame has as much of a social problem as it did before the alcohol policy. Things aren't that different, just a little more inconvenient. It doesn't have to be that way. And with a little mutual effort, maybe things can finally change for the better. 
It's worth a try, isn't it? 
Spring Break in Fort ]Lauderdale 
Monday, March 24  Intra-coastal boat trip with dinner. Fee is $10.00  
Tuesday, March 25  Everglades day bike tour with lunch. Fee is $8.00  
Baseball--YankeE~s vs. Kansas City 7:30pm  
Wednesday, March 26  Baseball--Yankees vs. Expos 7:30pm  

Thursday, March 27 Student Union and Alumni Association Dance & Party Friday, March 28 Baseball--Dodgers Vs. Rangers 1:30pm Satur4ay, March 29 Easter Vigil Mass at 4:00pm Depart for campus with box lunch immediately following Mass. 
Come meet us at the Alumni Association Van located behind the Riviera Hotel! We will be J.•roviding: 
* 
A Hospitality Center \ 


* 
A free WATS line to phone home 

* 
A student locator file to find out where your friends are in Florida 

* 
Orange juice and newspapers provided by St. Mary's every morning 

* 
Shopping center excursion each evening

* 
Information and message exchange 


For more information and sign-up for day trips in Ft. Lauderdale attend the Student Union meeting at Ha;t;es/Healy at 7:00pm Wednesday, March 19 or stop into the Alumni Association. 
SEE YC)U IN FLOWDA! 

The Observer Wednesday, March 19, 1986 -page 3 
New group to study campus parking facility problems 
By MARK MELLETT the faculty lots, he added. With News Staff the faculty moving around cam­pus to different buildings, such A recently formed committee as the recently constructed is coming up with a report ad­Decio Faculty Hall, some lots dressing various problems with are more crowded than others, Notre Dame parking facilities. said Rakow. He added that The Notre Dame Parking Notre Dame's pedestrian nature Committee, which was initiated puts on-campus traffic at the 
in February under the direction forefront of the committee's of Security Director Rex concerns. Rakow, is studying problems of Chosen by Associate Provost 
congestion, overcrowding, and Father Edward Malloy, 
allotment of space, said me!Dbers of the committee freshman Joy Smith, student represent different departments member of the group. of the University. They are 
Smith would not release any Nathan Hatch, associate dean information about the commit­of the College of Arts and Let­tee's hearings, saying the recom­ters; Richard Conklin, assistant mendations will be published in vice president for University a report to the administration. relations; James Powell, direc­
Cars parked without the pro­tor of graduate admissions; 
per identification decals and in Carol Seager, director of lots with previously assigned University health services; and space were the most frequently Roger Mullins, director of per­noted problems, said Rakow. sonnel.
I 

I 
He also said that a new decal Smith received a position on system will be initiated. the committee, even though she Protection of the cars is also does not own a car, because of an issue, said Smith. The her enthusiasm in student students have brought forth government, said Student Body complaints that Security is not Vice President Duane Lawrence. able to protect the cars from "We were trying to get 
Parking Committee will attempt to solve this and v"!!YllHSiirJ, she added. freshmen active in student government," he said.

Senate 
continued/rom page 1 
to working with Switeck and' hopefully getting something done, or if not, just have fun." 
Bauer won every hall in the district except Vierhile's hall, Dillon, where Bauer was defeated 149-35. Bauer received the most votes from pangborn with 100. 
Steve Viz defeated fellow Plan­ner resident Chris Murphy for the district 4 post by drawing 57 per­cent of the vote. Viz said it was a good race but that his hard cam­paigning probably won it for him. "I went to every room in the entire district. I think that was most effec­tive," he said. 
Viz won every hall but Grace where Murphy defeated him 103 votes to 80. In their home dorm, Planner, Viz drew 104 votes to Murphy's 78. 
District 5 produced the only run­off, which pits Fred Pugliano against Eileen Hartigan. Pugliano drew 43 percent of the vote to Har­tigan's 36 percent. Chris Sheedy, the third candidate for off-campus senator, received 21 percent of the vote. 
Hartigan said her run-off with Pugliano would be a "hard race" and she said both candidates would have difficulty getting off-campus residents to vote with spring break coming next week. Pugliano was not available for comment. 

sggRound trip.Anywhere we go. 
This Spring Break, if you and your friends then be good for travel for 15 days from the date are thinking about heading to the slopes, the of purchase. beach or just home for a visit, Greyhound' can So this Spring Break, get a real break. 
PREPARE FOR: 

take you there. For only $99 or less, round trip. Go anywhere Greyhound goes for $99 or less. 
LSAT

From February 15 through April27, all you For more information, call Greyhound. 
• TESTN TAPE' LIBRARY

do is show us your college student I.D. card 
• REINFORCEMENT TEST nontr.~nsf<111hk and sood for tnvel on Greyhound Lin<s, Inc., and othor paruc1poung wn<r.< ( :tnam MUst present a valid coll<s< stu<knt I.D card upon purchase. So o<h<r discounts applv fu:kot' U< 
• HOMESTUDY PACKET

when you purchase your ticket. Your ticket will 
restnctions apply. Offer dJK1!""2!15186. Offer limn<d. Not valid m Canada 
1717 E. South Bend Ave 
South Bend, IN 46637 

Jl41GO GREYHOUND 
(219) 272-4135 

.!!!IAooleave the driving to us~ 
Michiana Regional Airport, 4671 Terminal Drive, South Bend, IN, 287-6541 
Tbeot.rver!Robcn Jona 

Crowded student parking lots are a fact of life other problems with the campus lots. Story at for campus car-owners. The new Notre Dame right. 

The Observer Wednesday, March 19, 1986 -page 4 

Council picks Cintron as judicial coordinator 
ByC~SBEDNABSKI 
Senior SttiffReporter 
My experience and willingness to get involved in issues that pertain to students' rights make me qualified for the job, said new Judicial Coor­dinator Maria Cintron at last night's Judicial Council meeting. 
Cintron, the only candidate for the position, was unanimously elected by the Judicial Council. She has been the Judicial Board Chair­woman of Pasquerilla East for the last two years. In addition, she has chaired the committee of Ad­ministration and Rector Relations and co-chaired the Judicial Review Committee in the Judicial Council. 
Cintron said she hopes to in­crease student awareness on the judicial process. "I think the students don't know what to do when they are accused of an of­fense," she said. "We must inform the students of their rights." 
Cintron said that informing students of their rights should begin ill the dorms. She said in her application for the job that each student should have a 
Correction 

Because of problems with the typesetting equipment informa­tion about the University's Honesty Committee's final report was incorrect in a story in yesterday's Observer. The report's section on the honor code said academic dishonesty is at Notre Dame is "not over­whelming or rampant" and "does not warrant a radical change, which may work no bet­ter than the present system . . . 
" 
Kaplan LSATPREP. .. 
BE OVER40 


&LOVE IT! 
No matter what your age. ifyou plan on going to law school. a score over 40 can put spring in your step! 
You see, candidates who score between 40 and 48 on the new Law School Admission Test enjoy the best chance ofbeing ac­cepted to the law school of their choice and going on to practice with top firms or corporations. 
At the Stanley H. Kaplan Educational Centet; LSJ!J" prepa­ration is a fine art. So much so that Kaplan has more "over 405" grads than any other test prep 
firm in the nation. 
Isn't thatjust the test edge I your law career deserves? 

KAPLAN 
® 
STANLEY H KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL GNTER LTD 
The worlds leading test prep organization. 
Call Days, Evenings, Even Weekends 
1717 E. South Bend Ave 
South Bend In 46637 
(219) 272-4135 
For Information Regarding Over 120 Centers 
011111DE IU. STATE CALL TOLL FRE£ 100·223·1712 preparation for the (.s.q and aver 30 other standarized examinations 
copy of ''A. Manual of Students' 
Rights" in his or· her possession. 
· "A Manuall of Students' Rights" is a booklet written by last year's Judicial Council that clarifies the rules in du Lac and ex­plains students' options when ac­cused of an offense. 
At present, only rectors and hall judicial board chairmen have copies of the manual. 
In other business, Cintron told the council that rectors had return­ed evaluation sheets sent to them by the Judicial Council. ''We were sur­prised and happy about them br­inging them back," she said. 
The evaluation sheets questioned rectors on their perception and opi­nion of the Judicial Board and the appeals system for judicial cases. 
The evaluation sheets are intend­
APPhoto
ed for the use of the judiciary com­
Give me a break!
mittee of the Campus Life Council 

Students from Rutgers University arriving in Ft. allow student to check into their rooms until the
in "discussing the effectiveness of 

Lauderdale at 4 a.m. Sunday morning found fire alarms were replaced. The manager of the
the present Judicial Board system 

themselves held up in a room off the lobby of the Days Inn had reservation for 1,200 students, but
and how to improve the present 

Days Inn. Last week's springbreakers tore out the had to make accomodationsfor them elsewhere. 
system," said Karen Ingwersen, 
fire alarms at the motel, and officials wouldn't
judicial coordinator for the past term. 


~~ssssssssssssss~ssssssss~
Applications Available---... 
1!1-asnaus Books 
Sotne "1! ITIIJ i(' 1027 E. Wayne 
for------------------------~ 
St.lncloY j "'-~~ r Tues -Sun, noon • 6 
···• -l block south of Jefferson & Eddy
the 1987 Dom~------... 
u-da -1to1 ...... boob!'-..t. -ld• ...n:lled 
Editor-in-Chief-------t 
l

applications in Student Activities office Happy Birthday
(8:30-4:30) 

first noor of Lafortune Mary Kennedy 
*applications due by 4:30pm. 
You sure know how to 

March 20, at the Student 
knock •em dead!
Act ivies Office 
Love, Jen, Terry, Brigid 

*Everyone encouraged to apply 
Katie and Maureen 

SPRING BREAK PART T E R 
in Ft. Lauderdale, FL Thurs., March 27, 1986. from 9om-??? 
\ \ I ..,. 

5755 NPowerline Road *" ~t!J2f 'II ~owerl~ne (Nw'f Avt )-. " ( 






~+~~TO G10 
£ AJ.. A. See you there! ~ 
------...;..-usa, Jill, Julie & Debbl----a 
COMING! SPRING 
BREAK 
c-l­

/cS~ ~.--­1 I DO/TALL! ~ 
~Condition In Booth / iCTan In Beds iC Relax on Massage Bed 
Call277-7026 
J.M.S. PLAZA 
4609 Grape Road

mN~HAWAiw 
Mishawaka 


The Observer Wednesday, March 19, 1986 -page 5 

U.S. gives Philippine government papers detailing Marcos' holdings 

Auodatecl Pnss 
WASHINGTON-The United States yesterday gave the Philip­pine government a box contain­ing at least 1,500 pages of documents expected to detail worldwide, mult\billion-dollar holdings of deposed President Ferdinand Marcos. 
The same documents were also subpoenaed by a House subcommittee which has been investigating Marcos' U.S. deal­ings, including an estimated $350 million worth of real estate in the New York City area. 
Rep. Stephen Solarz, D-N.Y., chairman of the House Foreign Affairs subcommittee on Asian and Pacific affairs, told his col­leagues, "I have been informed by the administration that they will comply, that we will receive the documents within a few hours." 
It was not immediately known how many documents were to be released. But subcommittee aides said they believed the box contained somewhere in the range of 1,500 to 2,300 pages. ­
The actions came a day after a federal judge in New York refused to halt the release of the papers which Marcos and his 
wife, Imelda, took w~th them 
last month when they fled to 
Hawaii after the collapse of 
Marcos' 20-year rule. 
Jovito Salonga, chairman of a 
panel appointed by Corazon 
Aquino, Marcos' successor, ap­
peared at the State Department 
early yesterday to receive the 
cardboard box of documents 
from Michael Armacost, 
undersecretary of state for 
political affairs. 
Salonga's panel, the Commis­sion on Good Government, was appointed by Aquino to in­vestigate what Salonga calls "the ill-gotten wealth that was stolen from the Filipino people." 
Salonga has estimated that Marcos' total worth might range as high as $5 billion to $10 billion. Salonga's commission recently said that papers found in Manila showed Marcos had a Swiss bank account worth $800 million. 
On Capitol Hill, the Foreign Affairs panel voted 6-0 to sub­poena the documents, and Solarz said most of them pro­bably will be released to the public. 
The panel also voted 6-0 to subpoena eight more people in its continuing investigation. It had earlier approved subpoenas for two New York brothers. 
None of the eight people was identified, but Solarz said four of them are suspected of having information about Marcos' New York real estate dealings. 
The other four names, all Filipinos, were added to the sub­poena at the request of Rep. Jim Leach, R-Iowa, who said they were "individuals who may have attempted to influence Amj:rican politics." 
Since the collapse of Marcos' regime, Aquino's government has been investigating Marcos' financial dealings, most of which were amassed during a presidency when his salary was about$5,700a year. 
Marcos took the box of documents with him, but it was impounded by the U.S. Customs Service when Marcos arrived at a U.S. military base in Honolulu. 
Earlier yesterday, Attorney General Edwin Meese, appear­ing before an audience in Bangkok, Thailand, said the United States is moving as 
. quickly as possible to get a court ruling on properties in this country allegedly held by Mar­cos . 
operated by University Food Services, Hickey said. 
Another area of LaFortune­that will be closed until next ~all is Chautauqua. Planners had hoped to complete the ballroom, which is intended to be an undergraduate club, some time this spring. According to Direc­tor of Student Activities Joni Neal, the date for completion of all renovations is still not cer­weeks, Neal added. 

She also noted that work will continue on the basement area, which will now be called' the lower level. Rather than being a study area, the lower level is in­tended to be a mall, with a varie­ty of shops. 
"The intent for the lower level is 'not exclusively to become a study area. It may be used that way, "Neal said. 
r-----._.-------~ 
.· 
I FREE! I
I · I 

They  were  hoping  to have the  
addition  framed  up  before  
Christmas"  

1 REGULAR RAXtt 1 I WITH PURCHASE OF I IREGUlAR FRIES AND I 
I MIDIUMDRINK I
I 1 
l
IOur famous Jblx roast beef, sllce~l .in, piled high, and aerved on a .. I lll.!eame-eeed roll. ,J 
'""•• preMnl coupon befoN o.ring. <:)nQ 
I
1 J
c~upon per per50n per Vllif. Noc valid In cornbi~lkKI w.lh any olhcr Rax offer. Offer gocxl at partic1pat1ng 
I 
.IRax Restauranta. 1120cent caah redemphOn value. 
•1985 Rax Rntauranla, Inc. 1
1 
I! •.I
I . I
I 
I 
L----~-f"-______1: 
I . 
. :::. .... 
.. :: :· 
·= ·: 
Q.. ~
:j8
:Z:I­

Q.. • 
.w 
1-:::.::: 
~ z-
w~
en 
()~
z 


1.1.1 Z:::.::: 
~ >() 
~ Q..-~ 
-· 
~ 0 :z:­
:I: 
() m 
0 ::E () ~ 
N 0 -c <( 
c:c ...J. 
en en z 
:::> > 
t-< .. _u,
0 Q co
w >­
0... w 


I en 0 ::J:
-c
t-

I
1­
~ 

I 0 N (n 
:::> 0 c Cl) 

I 
g 01: Cl) z I; % w 

I 
-
1m ::J: 

I
1­

I
z ~ en 
w :l ::::> 

1 
w t-...J 01: 
z >-c Q.. 
w w A. :;;w A. ~ 
~ 
:::> 
-c
u.. 
w 
w
w 
en :E >0 0
c:c 
...J 
~ 
en< 
: :· :::. . ; :: :, . ·=.' 
., ::::,: ·:. ., ';_),,.,.', ·:.: 
.. :=.:· 
~~ 



Huddle 
continuedfrom page 1 
Also planned in the renova­tions will be a variety of food stands in the newly constructed area. Among them will be Mex­ican and Chinese food booths, a barbecue booth and a health drink booth. 
STACEY (19) HANK (22) 
Love, your friend 'BO' 

Lochmandy Leasing & Rental, Inc. 
IINational Car Rental~ 
W-end and Weekly Specials all year round. Need transportation to get oft campus tor the weekend? check our low roles. Going on a long trip? We hove weekly specials designed tor a student's budget. 
One Way Rentals Available to over 1000 locations· allow unlimited mileage rates with no drop charges. Excellent way to get home for vocation at reasonable prices. 
Conveniently Located at the 
We feature GM cars like this Buick Regal. 


"What we're looking for is 

late August or early September," said Neal. "The weather has been a big factor. 
The vending machine area, which has been turned into two conference rooms and a space for telephones, should be open­ing within the next two to three 
ATTENTION SENIORS: 
Senior Formal Bid Sale 
$60 includes cocktail hour, dinner danceot Palmer House 
Lafortune & LeMans 
Lobbies March 1 0-14, 5-7 pm March 17-20, 5-7pm 
Tomorrow is last day 

N.D. SENIOR FORMAL TUXEDO 
Designers: 
Pierre Cardin 
Bill Blass 

Y.S.L., Dynasty, Miami Vice 
(Who's Evan Piccone?) 
Look Around Before You Rent 
$36'-$46 
Century Formalwear 1622 Mishawaka A venue 287-5938 
'If 
c'i 





Accent 
Wedm:sday, March 19, 1986-page 6 


r r r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
~ 
,.. 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r r 
r 
r 
r 

Gary Larson tells all 
Special to Tbe Oblener Question 1: What kind of huml()r Squash You All Flat." Many of his Is tbls? friends feel the influence of larson's Friends describe his humor as older brother, Dan, cannot be ig­Thousands of telephone calls "dry, subtle and sharp," while nored --Dan used to wait for 8­have been pouring into the offices readers find it "bizarre, morbid and year-old Gary to go down to the of the publisher of Gary Larson's absolutely hilarious." basement for firewood, a task Gary runaway bestselling comic, The Far despised because "everything that Side: "Is this man sick?" "Where was horrible in my imagination liv­
Larson's mother says that his
do these strange ideas come from?" ed in the basement." Then Dan 
sense of humor is almost innate.
"You guys got something against would turn off the light, hold the
She recalled that when she woke
cows?" upstairs door shut and call, "It's
him for Gary's second day of
In an effort to stave off the calls com-m-ming, Gary! It's com-m­
kindergarten, he said, "Wha.t,
that are clogging company phone ming! Can you hear it?" 
again?"

lines, Larson's publisher, Andrews, 
Question 4: How does Larson

McMeel & Parker, is releasing the One of his close friends, Ernie 
work?

following answers to often-asked Wagner, a curator at the Seattle Listening to musicians such asquestions. The answers are drawn Zoo, summed Gary up best whcm Dan Hicks, Duke Ellington,from the scores of interviews that he said: "He has the ability to tap Django Reinhardt, Charles Good­Gary Larson has done since The into people's basic instincts and man or Benny Goodman, LarsonFar Side books have hit all the na­childhood fears, and find the writes and draws in a second-floortion's bestseller lists. humor in them." 
studio in his Seattle home. There 

Perhaps these answers can satisfy Larson himself says: "People try He's surrounded by such artifactgs 
some of the curiosity generated by as
to look for deep meanings in my a stuffed warthog head and a The Far Side rage as it swweps 
work. I want to say, 'They're ca.r­fossilized mastadon tooth, given to across college campuses, tiptoes in­him by his grandmother. He also
toons, folks.' You laugh or you
to suburban households --and cap­keeps live pets that include several
don't . . . I don't react to current
tures the minds of supposedly sane snakes and an Argentinian car­
events or other stimuli. I don't read 
readers. 
or watch TV to get ideas. My work niverous frog. 
Of course, these answers may 
is basically sitting down at title
produce a new generation of Lar­Question 5: What is the future of
drawing table and getting silly." 
son addicts. But with nearly two The Far Side? million The Far Side books in Question 3: Where on earth d(Jies Larson's latest book, Vally of the print, it's time to provide some Larson find bls ideas? Far Side, is currently available in 
assistance for a reader's dilemma. "live always wanted to say that in bookstores. my grandma's attic, I found this Larson often wonders, though, if 
Question 1: Who is Gary Larson? old book in this trunk," says Lar­"someone's gonna show up and He's a slim man in his mid­son. "Cartoon ideas . . . I don't say: 'There's been a big mistake. know. I've tried to figure out, Why The guy next door is supposed to be 
thirties, slightly balding with benign blue eyes behind his wire me? Why are these coming out of drawing the cartoon. Here's your 
rim glasses. me? And I've failed miserably. It's shovel.'" just in there." Any more questions? No? Well, 
"People always say, 'Gee, you He does, however, speak as Gary Larson said, "There are look so normal,' " says Larson, "I nostalgically of childhood trips to some people who'd rather take the feel embarrassed. Like I should be collect tadpoles, newts and Far Side at face value. And they're there with one eye in the middle of salamanders. He still has a copy of the ones I don't want to pick up hit­my forehead." a favorite storybook, "Mr. Bear chhiking." 

W.B.Yeats delighted by Notre Daine 
SMC suffers from "no real social llife" 
KATHY' MARTIN 
feotures staff writer 

How many of you could name the famous Irish poet at the turn of the century who was a member of the Irish Senate, believed in ghosts and held seances, and loved to visit Notre Dame and Saint Mary's dur­ing his American lecturing tour? 
William Butler Yeats held quite a diverse beliefs and interests, among them a fascination for the priests of Notre Dame. Yeats, born June 13, 1865 of Irish lawyer and artist John Butler yeats, first came to Notre Dame in early 1904. He was known in the United States at that tim~ on­ly as one of the Celtic twilight poets, and he was visiting Irish communities in America to raise money for his Abbey Theater, which opened in Dublin in 1904. The Abbey Theater became the voice of Ireland in a time of political unrest and some of the controversial plays performed there incited riots. 
The Wade edition of a collection of Yeats' letters contains one letter from Yeats written to his friend Lady Augusta Gregory, postmark­ed January 18, 1904 from Chicago. He seemed to have had his doubts about Catholic students understanding his poetry, which ex­pressed tenets of mysticism. 
He wrote, "I am on my way to a place called Indiana University and have just come from Notre Dame, a Catholic university ... I did not succeed in my first lecture. I began of a sudden to think, while I was lecturing, that these Catholic students were so out of the world that my ideas must seem the thunder of a battle fought in some other star. The thought confused me and I spoke badly, so I asked if I might go to the literary classes and speak to the boys about poetry and read them some verses of my own." 
Yeats was most excited about the priests and brothers he met at Notre Dame and the lack of religious prejudice in the Catholicism. "I have been entirely delighted by the big merry priests of Notre Dame,'' he wrote. "All Irish and proud ad Lucifer of their success in getting Jews and Non­conformists to come to their col­lege, and of the fact that they have no endowments." 
Yeats continued, "I sat up late telling ghost stories with · the Fathers at night. I said when I was going away 'I have made a great lit­ter on the floor' and pointed to torn up papers, and one fat old priest said with a voice fulll of sincerity 'I wish you were making it there for a month." I think they were delighted to talk about Ireland and the faery . .• I think these big priests would be fine teachers, but I cannot think they would be more than that. They belong to an easy-going world that has passed away --more's the pity perhaps --but certainly I have been astonished at one thing, the general lack of religious prejudice I found on all sides here." 
He seemed quite impressed by the size of the priests, too, whom he described as "big children, and all over six feet." 
Yeats formed his own opinions about Saint Mary's College, too, in this letter, and his impressions were not favorable. "I liked the women's college much less," he wrote. ''The nun I saw the most of, the teacher of literature, showed me her course of instructio --no real grasp of ideas in it, and mere prettiness get­ting the foremost thought, it seem­ed to me . . . But the radical defect was that the girls had obviously no real social life. I thought of the girls at the other colleges, with their abundant freedom, their pretty dressy look." 
After he won the Nobel Prize in 1923, Yeats returned two or three other times to Notre Dame in the early 30s on his poetry reading tours through America. 
Yeats was a very controven:ial figure in Irish literary history. He was the founder or member of several diverse groups in Ireland and England, such as the Dublin hermetic Society, the Theosophical Society of London, the Hermc:tic Order of the Golden Dawn, 1:he Irish Literary Society and the Irish National Theater Society. He was involved with members of the Irish nationalist movement of the times, especially with this mistress Maud Gonne, who he felt incited the na­tionalists to riot. He even propoHed 19 times to her. 
However, the Irish Senator a.nd political figure had also attended art school, and held mystical beliefs in ghosts and the occult. Yeats believed in a coherent cosmos with secret patterns designed out of chaos. He was fascinated by phases of the moon and used the imag1~ry of spiral gyres to describe 1the evolution of one's life in his poetry. He also believed art was the achievement of unity out of chaos. 
his obsession with unity, with synthesis as a whole greater than its parts, led him to view his closest friends and relatives as reveali.ng aspects of his own personality. His father, John Butler Yeats, was an atheist and cynic, a lawyer-tum~d­artist. William Yeats believed his father's soul came to him throUtgh the eyepiece of his telescope. His maternal uncle, George Pollexfen, was a professional astrologer who had a clairvoyant servant Mary with whom he and Yeats held seances. 
It is impressive that Notre Dame, where "these Catholic students were so out of the world" and where the priests belong to "an easy-going world that has passed away" became one of Yeats' favorite stopping places on his American tours. Perhaps the Irish poet felt at home abroad in these acres of Ireland in the American Midwest. However, Yeats' own feelings for Ireland in the American Midwest. However, Yeats' own feelings for Ireland kept changing as he spent much of his life in Lon­don and distanced himself political­ly from amny Irish nationalist groups. Still, he felt rooted in the ancient myths and tradition of the Emerald Isle, and moved into an isolated tower in the country as a symbol of his attachment to the land. _ 
If William Butler Yeats were to visit Notre Dame and Saint Mary's today, what would he write about those big Irish priests, the lack of endownments and religious pre­judice, and the need for a social life at Saint Mary's that impressed him before? 


-~
r-----------------~--------------------------------------------------------------------~ ~~-------­

~i~~~_()__l_._ll__t____________________w_e_dn-esd-~-,M-u_c_hl-9,_19-86--p-ag-e? 
Who's in charge? 
Is WVFI-AM the student radio station at Notre Dame? 
Until a few weeks ago that question would have been answered with an ob­vious yes. But recently, the administration's banning of a public service message it objected to has stirred confusion and controversy concerning the status of both campus stations, WVFI-AM and WSND-FM. 
Last month, the University ordered WSND-FM to discontinue airing a public service announcement from the Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame/Saint Mary's. In response the student managers of both radio stations resigned. When the interim student manager of WSND-FM continued to play the message, she was fired by the administration. 
These occurences reveal a serious misunderstanding between the administra­tion and the students who run the campus radio stations. The students thought they were the ones who decided what could and could not air. The administra­tion thought it had the prerogative to make sure the programming was consis­tent with the University's interests. 
Notre Dame provides the greatest part of the funding of both stations, but both are managed and staffed mostly by students. There needs to be a clear, unambiguous policy stating the areas of responsibility of each. 
The policy should answer such questions as, can the University censor material it finds undesirable? Can it hire and fire students at will? Can it ban paid advertisements as well as free public service messages? What powers of discretion, if any, do the student managers have? 
If Notre Dame does want to keep certain messages from the air, the student managers should be aware of it. And when students at Notre Dame tune to 640-AM or 88.9-FM, they should know whether they are listening to theirs, or the University's station. 
-The Observer 
P.O.BoxQ 
Fear was an ingredient in the LeMans tragedy 
Dear Editor: 

FEAR, this is the ingredient necessary for the tragic events in the LeMans dormitory. Think of the fear and terror this young woman must have suffered, and consider why she did not obtain help. This fear is an indictment of a community. A community that self-righteously considers itself a model for American Catholicism. 
A religion based on love does not create an atmosphere in which the fear of censure outweighs all other considerations. It is time that this community accepts a rational reproductive policy so that this horror does not recur. 
B.R. Thomas Dept. ofBiology 
We should not take the memorial for 'granite' 
DearEditor: 

Let us congratulate Sarah Janicki for her tremendous effort ln supporting the noble cause of world peace. However, how can she possibly miscontrue the Notre Dame effort to recognize the sacrifice of courageous young Americans as glorifying war, organizing mas­sacre, and fostering jingoistic sentiment? She is fortunate that there were brave men in this country willing to give their lives In order to preserve the freedom we so value. Ifshe does not feel the memorial Is appropriate, perhaps she would be more comtortable sporting a swastika on her shoulder. 
Janicki should consider herself lucky that there were male citizens In this country wil­ling to give their lives to preserve our freedom, regardless of the cause of the con­flict. Janicki, get back in the kitchen and leave war glorification to Rambo. By the way, did you root for Drago in "Rocky IV"? As tor the 1500,000 "bunch of concrete," the memorial Is made of limestone, and don't take It tor granite. Stop bad mouthing your country. 'Nuf said. 
Mark O'Sullivan Dan Moore 
... 
Cavanaugh Hall 
Something new 
Viewpoint would like to oc· cassionally highlight quotes from faculty members, stu­dents and readers. So if you or someone you know says something intellectually stimulating, brlllandy funny or clearly controversial, send the quote to Viewpoint. 

Teaching contraception appears to condone it 
Dear Editor: 
As a Catholic, I vehemently object to con­traception being taught in ttie recent Sexuali­ty series at Saint Mary's. It gives the ap­pearance of condoning the action and sends out the wrong message. Evil cannot be fought with evil. This is a deliberate attack against the teachings of the Catholic Church which Saint Mary's professes to represent. Our Catholic youth have a right to the truths of their faith. Saint Mary's has a moral obligation to dispense them. If the situation necessitates an education about condoms, perhaps the problem lies with the teacher. How many students know that Our Lady of Fatima (who also dispenses such comfort at the Grotto) sadly warned the world in 1917 that more souls go to Hell because of sins of the flesh than for any other reason. How many know the Church's teaching on the use of the gift of human sexuality? God created man, male and female, giving them the 
Doonesbury 
A 5LAV&, HUH"? YeAH. 
a,wesome power to cooperate with Him in creating a beautiful new person to love and be loved by Him. New babies, created within the union of marriage, are born into the world for the express ·purpose of learning to know, love and serve God in this world and to glorify Him forever ih Heaven. The power of the sexual drive testifies to the extent to which God desires new souls. 
Reason dictates certain moral laws, however, which require a responsible use of the sexual powers. How do we know what these laws are? Christ instituted His Church to teach succeeding generations what He had taught. His Church, guided by the Holy Spirit, is preserved from error in matters of faith and morals. Today, as always but more than ever before, those teachings are being attacked from all sides. To the uninformed, they may seem outmoded, illogical, even un­supportable by human reasoning at times, but because they are taught by God through Scripture, tradition and His Church, they re­main constant. Each student must take the responsibility for learning the truth. False teachings are rampant. 
. Students, acquaint yourselves with the doctors, saints and mystics in Church history. They will open up a beautiful world guaranteed to whet your spiritual appetite. The results could so transform the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame campuses that sex­ually transmitted diseases would no longer be a reality and Our Lady's Immaculate Heart would surely be a little lighter as she continues her vigil over her children at these very special places. 
Shirley Cushnie Kailua, Hawaii 
Parietals should apply equally to everyone 
Dear Editor: 

I can't stand it; I can't stand it. They tell us that parietals are designed to enchnce our privacy in the dorms and are not necessarily neant to serve as anti-sex mechanisms. 
I tend to doubt the effectiveness of parietals in ensuring privacy when a 60-year-
Garry Trudeau 
old workman is allowed to wax walls in a female dorn, while we women are scurrying around tghe halls, often clad in scanty night clothes or mere towels, getting ready for our early morning classes. 
Ifthe University wants to impose parietals on us, that's fine. It's their prerogative. Let's just have them apply equally to all persons living in the dorm and to all circumstances such as the workmen (or maids) in the dorms of the opposite sex before 11 a.m. 
Michelle Hubbard Breen-Phillips Hall 


Editorial Board Operations Board 
Edltor-in-Chlel ............................. s..h E. HMIIhon eu./neN MM~ager...................... o.vld Stephenltch
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Newa Edtor................... -........................ F .....Lipo Controler ............................. Wlllam J. Hlghducttecil News Editor ..•........•....•... , .............. Dan McCuilol.9' Advelfia/l'lfJ ~...•.....•.......•..•..........Am Hllgan 
The ObHrver ia the independent~ publiehed by the atudenla d the Univnty at Selnt A.ftlty'a Executive Editor ........ Thereaa au.ino Adveltl.;l'lfl Meneger ...................... Anne M. Culigan Notre Deme du Lac and Sllint Mery"a College. It doM not I"IICI8Urily reflect the policies d the Spotta Editor ...........................................Jeff aJmb ~~......................... Marti B. Johnaon adminiatration d either instiiUtion. The 111M ~ rwported u accurately and objectively u poe­Accer1t Editor ......................................... M8ry Healy Production MenaQet".......................John A. Mennell a~ble. Unsigned editori.,. repteMnt the opinion of a majority of the Edtori81 Board. Commen­VIewpoint Editor ............................ -.....Joe Murphy Photography Manager................. : ..... Tripp Baltz ranes, '-'liB and lhe ll'llide Column preeent the views at their aulhorl. Column IIPK8 ia Copy Chief.......................................... Philip H. Wdl avllilable to all member~ d the community and the tree expresaion d verying oolrinna on campua. through lett.,., ~ encouraged. Founded Nqwember 3, 1966 


P.O. BoxQ 
The Vlillltelat Department P.O.BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 
46556 
Campus quote 

"You may think that seatbelts are uncom­fortable -but have you ever tried a stretcher?" 
Pioneer Bulletin 

The Observer Wednesday, March 19, 1986 -page 8 
Sports Briefs 
An Tostal mud volleyball signups will be hetd to­day from 3 to 5 p.m. at the IaFortune information desk. Teams must consist of seven players, at least two of which must be women. Teams are also limited to one current SMC or ND varsity volleyball player. Entry fee is $3 per team. For more information call Bob Albertini or Brian Aquadro at 283-1248.-The Observer 
An Tostal Ultimate Frisbee signups will be held tonight between 7:30 and 9:30 in the IaFortune main Lobby. Rosters must include a minimum of 10 players and ID numbers are required for all players. For more information call Lance Williams at 283-4020. -The Observer 
A Bookstore Basketball meeting for all cap­
tains will be held on Wednesday, April2 at 8 p.m. m the Library Auditorium. Attendance is mandatory for all team captains. Schedules will be distributed and games will begin Friday, April4. For more information call Steve Wenc at 283-2506.-The Observer 
Navratilova takes tourney opener 
Associated Preas 
NEW YORK -Displaying the full range of her extensive talent, top­seeded Martina Navratilova crush­ed Terry Phelps 6-1, 6-1 last night in a first-round match of the $500,000 Virginia Slims Cham­pionships tennis tournament. 
Earlier, fourth-seeded Claudia 


Workouts 
continued/rom page 12 
speedster in four days to predict great things. 
. "I can't say enough about Tim Brown," noted Holtz. "His work habits have been excellent. The on­ly way people are going to stop us from getting the ball to him is if they intercept the snap from the center." 
One final bright spot to the open­ing rounds of the spring season has been the lack of any serious in­Kohde-Kilsch of Wt:st Germany fought off an upset bid by Australia's Wendy Turnbull 7-6, 6­4 to also advance into the quarter­finals of this 16-player tournament. 

Chris Evert Lloyd, who can cap­ture the World Championship if she wins on the indoor carpet at Madison Square Garden, play her opening round match. today when 
juries. Senior linebacker Mike Kovaleski missed some practice time with a sore ankle, and freshman quarterback Steve Belles sat out Sunday with a bruised hand, but both should be fully recovered by the time practices resume after the midsemester break. 
In the meantime, the squad will hold one more practke, a serious scrimmage in full pads. That scrim­mage will be held tomorrow at 4:15 
p.m. and will be open to the public. 
EXTRA POINTS ••.• More bad news for the already-thin defensive line came this week when it was she faces Barbara Potter. 
The 19-year-old Phelps held her serve to begin the match against Navratilova, who is seeking to win her third straight Virginia Slims Championships crown. Then, in the third game of the second set, she broke Navratilova at 30, albeit aided by two double-faults by the world's No.1 ranked player. 
disclosed that sophomore tackle Matt Dingens will miss the spring workouts because of personal pro­blems. Dingens, who saw a good deal of action in games last year, is not expected to return by the fall season . . . Wide receiver Milt Jackson has returned to the team after sitting out all of last year with an illness ... Skip Holtz, son of the Notre Dame head coach, will be working out with the team as a quarterback. The younger Holtz, his father made it clear, will be there to gain experience for a future in the coaching profession. "He's not here to save the franchise," not~s the elder Holtz. 
be Obsen•er Notrr Dam.-olfk<·. locatrd on th<· third tloor of l.aFortun<· Studrnt Crntn. a<-crpts classifit'd advnti•ing from') a.m. until -t p.m.. !\Iunday through friday The Obserr•er Saint !\lary's olfkr. I<Jl'atrd on thr rhird tloor of tlaggar Colkgr Crntt'r. al'Ct"P" dassilit·ds from 1.2 ..~0 p m until .~p.m .. !\!on­day though FridaY Dc:adlint' for m·xt·da\ dassifit'ds is .~ p.m All dassifkds musr he: prt'paid. c:ith.-r tn p.-rson or h\ mail <.hargc: is I 0 <-c:nts pt'r the: <·harac·





Classifieds 
tc:rs t'r daY. 
NOTICES 
Typing Avllilable 287-4082 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 
234-8117. 
...................... 
ATTN: STUDENTS 
Dolores Francis typing service 
phone number change 
277·8131 
Wordprocessing· Typing 272-8827 
TYPING· Fast, High-Quality. Call287· 9257. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 23S-7009. 
PRo-TYPE specializing in student papers, .law papers. resumes. diuerta· lions 277·5833. 
PRO·TYPE Raaulllfl, law papars, dlaaartatlona, atudant papara. 
2n.5833. 
Seml·lurnished house In good neighborhood 255-3684/277·3604 
Ft. Lauderdale apt. wk. may 17·24. $300. Call 289-1973. 
Grad Room $100/mo 277·2045 

LOST/FOUND I 
To whomever picked up D.J. Lally· 30648's laundry on 3/6 or 3n: Whether you took my bundle(&) on purpose or nol is of little consequence lo me-·1 just need my clothes and can't aHord to buy all brand-new ones! Please return lhem, and no matter what, absofulely no questions will be asked. Drop it by 350 Sorin or call 2171. Thanx. 
I 
.....................................,........ 
found; on Friday. 14 Mar. Pair of fake leal· her brown gloves (slightly) worn) on south quad. Go to loa! & found in Lafortune to claim. They are foo small for me. 
t!OST: A SEIKO WATCH ON FRIDAY NOON. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL THANG AT 3287 OR 209 KEENAN 
LOST SEIKO WATCH 14March White lace, fake gold trim, LOST NEAR IN· FIRMARY OR SENIOR BAR, CALL JOHN al2533 THANKS. 
LOST • light grey, while slag SKI JACKET · 2nd floor men's room LaFortune on 3/11. II found call 2466 or bring lo 1121 Grace. REWARD· no questions asked. 
HELP! !I! I lost My Watch About Two Weeks Ago. It's Black and Gold Strlpad And I Lost It Around The Business Building, St. Michael's Laundry, or Somewhere Else Outside. (watch It be In my room somewhere) Please Contact Tony at 1462. Reward 
sss 
Lost: Gold and green bracelet. Please call kathy 3568. 
LOST::: Racquetball racquet and 
Prescription Sports Glasses near 
Lyons' Hall parking lot. II found call 
1528 or come by 1105 Flanner. 
"'REWARD'" 
LOST A RED WOOL COAT AT SENIOR BAR ON ST. PArS DAY IF FOUND PLEASE CAL DEBBIE 4297 OR MY BRO (KEY) 1007 THIS COAT REALLY MEANS A LOT TO ME . PLEASE RETURN 
LOST: One class ring with aquamarine birth stone. Any information leading toward recovery will be rewarded. call 1572. 
LOST-Ladies gold watch on North Quad 
or in North Dining Hall. Please. please call 
Unda (4135) ~you find it. 
............................................. 
LOST: BLUE NOTRE DAME BAND 
JACKET. LEFT ON STEPAN B-BALL 
COURTS TUES. 3/11. IF FOUND 
PLEASE CALL BRIAN AT 1145! 
LOST: MY FAVORITE RED COAT-at Senior Bar St. Patrick's Day. If you think you might have picked It up by mistake (maybe you ha.ve mine and I have yours) please relurn II to the Bar's Lost & Found That Is where I have returned yours. Or call me at 3731 
LOST 112 OF OUR WARDROBE IN 
P.W. LAUNDRY ROOM. PLEASE RETURN IT . . . IT DOESN' LOOK GOOD ON YOU. CALL. E OR KAT 1813. 
Found: A medium sized bl&ck urn. brella at the Grotto. II you are all wet and need your umbrella, call marcus al1146. 
To whomever mlslool< my Guess jeans jacket for theirs al Campus View (303) on Fri. Mar. 14, I would ap­preciate lis return ASAP. NO QUES. TIONS ASKED. Lennie 284-4119 
WANTED 
RIDE OFFERED TO DC/NO VA AREA! LEAVE 3/20 and return 4/1. Call Vicki at3793 TODAY! 
Riders Wanted to Keys or anywhere enroule. Luxury van leaving 3/20 (pm) Returning 4/4 Call Keith 1382 
Ride needed back to ND along 1-80 from Ohio Exit 8 after break (3/31 or 411). Call Dale at 1657 
NEED RIDE TO SOUTHEAST OHIO: COLUMBUS, CANTON, CLEVELAND, OR WHEELING. CALL KATHY ¥90. 
................................. 
NEED RIDE TO DAYTON AREA THURSDAY! CALL KATHY 3890 
HELP! MUST GET HOME THURS 3/20! NEED RIDE TO O'HARE OR N CHIC. SUBS AFTER 2:30. JANE 2735 
WANTED: RIDERS TO/FROM TAMPA BAY AREA FOR BREAK. CALL KERRY 4508 
NEED RIDE TO CLEVELAND FOR BREAK. CALL MIKE AT 288-5355. 

ADMINISTRATOR OF 
EDUCATIONAL CENTER Mature-minded Individual to direct South Bend area office of nation­wide educationally oriented com­pany. Responsibilities Include recruitment of students, supervision of office and Instructional staff, public relations & outreach to academic & business communities. Candidates should have excellent communications & problem solving skills, demonstrative leadership abili· ly, experience working with the public and a latent for handling many responsibilities. Bachelor's degree required. Educational & business ex· perience preferred. Compensation In mid-teens. Apply by writing: Search Group, SHK EC, 131 West 56 Street, NYT,NY 10019. 
GOVERNMENT JOBS. $16,040-$59,230/yr. Now hiring, Cai11· 805-687-6000 Ext. R-9834 lor current federal list. 
RIDE NEEDED TO LOUISVILLE, KY THURS OR FRI CALL DIANE 2644/3577 
NEED RIDERS /TO SOUTH FLORIDA AREA. CAN PROVIDE MEAL AND OVERNIGHT ACCOMIDATlONS AT FINEST MOTEL IN CLEWISTON. CAll X2571 
Need riders to Pensacola, Fl Call John(1591) 
............................................................ Need ride to Dayton for break Brenda 284·5193 
FOR SALE 
ALUMNI AND RICH RIENDS: The Spirit of Rockne lives onl Picture yourself in a Notre Dame blue 1933 Studebaker Rockne. Though an antique, it runs like new and looks snappy, too. For detailS or a closer look, call (219) 283·1373 
Yamaha guitar, $250; 3-speed bicycle, $30. Call289-3457. 
IMAGEWRITER I.Brand new. $300.00. 234-1672. 
TICKETS 

...................... 
ROUND TRIP AIRLINE TICKET: S. Bend/Newark. 3/22·3/31. $178, Call Dave4303 
ONE WAY PLANE TICKET So Bend·Denver-Phoenlx Departure 3/20 at 5:55pm $95 Call272·3745 
Want to buy tickets lor Midwest regional finals march 21·22. Call 272· 
·1988 or 284·5626. 
PERSONALS 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE. I could have Mver dona It without your help OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN. 
Thank You Sl. Jude lor all your help! Please continue to help me' 
BOSTON BOUND FOR SPRING BREAK? 
NEED A RIDE? OR GOING THRU ALBANY. SYRACUSE, ROCHESTER, BUFFALO OR ERIE? PLEASE join two interesting domers on their to Harvard. We'llleave Fri March 21. PLEASE call3861 soon . 
NEED A RIDE LEAVING WASH., D.C. MARCH 27? Join two domers on their way back from SPRING BREAK. PLEASE CALL 3861. 
................................................................ Do you RUN? Are you ATHLETIC? Do you wanl people to think you are ATH· LETIC? Do you like making up stories to shapely women or Godly men about your ATHLETIC past during Spring Break? Purchase one of limited number of official UNIV. of NOTRE DAME TRACK & FIELD T·Shirts($8) or Grey Sweal Tops($15). To ask queslions or to get answers call TROZ at239·7634. 
To the guys In the station wagon who helped direct traffic and let the red convertible Rabbit out from Douglas onto 31 on Sat. around 2 ·THANKS! 
ACPA'sMeaa: 
a. 
Apple 

B. 
Lemon 


C. Pear 

D. Corporation Du Jour 
T·SHIRTS T·SHIRTS T·SHIRTS 
TO ALL THOSE KIND PEOPLE WHO ORDERED SPRING BREAK FOREVER T·SHIRTS_ THEY ARE IN!!! PLEASE CONTACT GEORGE OR TOM IN 370 DILLON (PHONE 1854) YOU CAN PICK THEM UP NOW THROUGH BREAK SO DONT FORGET THEM! THE "JUST FOR PLEASURE" SALESMEN 
NEED A RIDE BACK TO NO? from D.C., CUMBERLAND, WHEEL· lNG, or COLUMBUS 
on Thursday, March 27? Please join TWO INTERESTING OOMERS on their way back from SPRING BREAKII PLEASE CALL 38&1SOON!I 
.......................... THANK YOU ST. JUDE. I couldn't have done It without your help. 
ATTENTION REPUBLICANS!! 
ARE YOU REGISTERED TO VOTE? IF NOT, CALL EITHER JOHN AT 283· 1845 OR MATI AT 283-2398 THE PRIMARY IS APPROACHING!! 
Hungry? Call YELLOW SUBMARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery hours: Monday· Thursday 5pm·12am. GIVE US A CALL. 
Hey you guys, Observer SWEAT· SHIRTSareln!lil!! Please pick them up today!!!! 
Patrick Creadon Chris Fortin Ed Nolan Tom small Mary Berger Mark Weimholl Ann Kaltenbach Terry Lynch Jill Sarbenoff 
HAPPY !IIRTHDAY, MARY JEANI HAPPYIIIIRTHDAYTOYOUI HAVE FUN IN COLORADO, HAVE FUN DURING IIREAKI ENJOY BEING OLD ENOUGH TO DRINK IN 'THE UNITED STATES, NOT JUS'T IN AUSTRIAI OH FOR ONE NIGtiT IN THE CAFE PUB WITH AWEIZENI 
delne lreundln, Gertl 
Picture yourself on a bed by a dump. slel Wttn • • • • -man towering over your head of course •t doesn't matter if you're a swan, or does II? only II your girlfriend's name Is Leda. Let me wtile that on the board, but only if you close your eyes. What happens II you cut down all the trees In the world, cabbage patch dolls? congratulations on crew. Sheeley and !(eats would be proud. you know who. Good luck In texas. 
vertigo ergo sum 
OH UNSUI.LIEDWOMAN! HOW STR1~NGE YOU ARE I WILL WE SURVIVE IN WASHINGTON? TUNE IN II' EXT WEEK FOR MORE OF THE WASHINGTON DIARIES. 
K. Marie Ci. • You are even more at· tractive with your glasses on! 
SCRUPLES EPISODE II · NINER, TOAST, BOL, FAE, BENDAGE. ANDY AND OF COURSE, FUEDCK -Scoff Scofftl Fs1e, you would never give your larg11 serious social weapon (maker) to the benefactor who return· ed your WiOIIet with $300 In it. Niner gets her hsdo revoked-cheating on her restaurant btll and refusing to answer a job application honestly (we all know she's had psychiatric care)! Mol-Bot, It doesn't always depend, and Toast ·they make depends cards lor a reas•)n. I am still handing out the Busch. Free (since the pizza wasn't). Now I am still handing out the Busch. Free (since the pizza wasn't). Now for ED. There is only one word that comes to mind: "BLEEP." Bleep bleep bleep. I swear that's all you ever think about. Meanwhile, this is "THE GREATEST GAME EVER MADE!" Love, the woman who would make her child return the candy to the grocer(. P.S. Bandage · put your hal on stralghll 
Need a rldtl to Staubenvllle, Ohio? Or heading toward nearby Plttaburgh, and don't know how to get there? Leaving Tl,ursday, early afternoon. Call Mary a.t 1367. 
DON'T LEAVE US, MBH! I! 
DON'TLEAVEUS,MBHI!I We need !omeone with national ex· posure. 
C:ome back soon. 
Marla, Kl1r1, m•ry Kala, Backerdoo, 
Fran, M•ry Zoe •ncl Alief•: haven't seen your names In print lor a while. here's to a great spring break and fun the rest of the year. Love, your Observer connections, CER and MBH 
My library of Magazines Is almost complete. 1111 are free to slop by and have a look 
.. PQRN .. 

GOLF CART THIEVES I WON'T USE YOUR NAMES A. DO YOU HAVE YOUR COAT?? P. WHAT HAPPENED TO YOUR TIRE PUMP? K. DO YOU STILL HAVE YOUR FOOD COLORINS'? WE SHOULD GET TOGETHER. I DON'T THINK WE TOASTED TO MY 
GRANDFATHER ENOUGH LOVE, MARY 284·4081 

THANKS LYNNSEY ••• I promlaa111 notice It rMIXI lima. 
SEE YOU IN NOVEMBER WENT TO ARUBA 

DENISE: WE REMEMBERED! HOW COULD WE FORGET? TODAY IS YOUR "GOLDEN" DAY · 19 ON THE 19TH. HAPPY BIRTHDAY! 
YOUR FAN CLUB 
BE SWEET WITH US LANGSTON. ROCK US FOR 13 HOURS. ANN AND MJ 
• .. YET SHOW ME WHO'S BOSS .•• 

HEY Y'ALL -THIS ONE IS FOR THE OKIE!! QUOTE: "S.B. WEATHER SUCKS!" HAPPY BREAK BUDDY I DON'T GO CRAZY ON THAT COORS LITE! luv, prea. of B.P. FAN CLUB 
CONGRATULATIONS JULIA HEWSON ON BEING NO JUNIOR REP FROM SMC AND FOR BEING AN HONORARY HEENANITE. HAVE A GOOD TIME IN GEORGIA WHILE I SOAK UP THE RAYS IN LIVONIA. 
~OVE,BRIAN 
Anne Happy hunting In Phllly, N.Y. and Boston. If I know you there will be 9 job offers on your desk 2 weeks from now. I just hope thai none of them are In renal or is thai all a B.S. 
R.N. Is qualified for? LOU 
P.S. Don't worry, I wont miss you, just call 12 limes a day and write often, telegrams are great too. 
AND THEN THERE'S SCWARTZ ... who, alter doing nasty things to that semi, cleverly hid behind the door after trying unsuccessfully to keep the pollee out ... 
Happy 21st Wilma. Legal at lasll Now you are finally free to gel drunk. Your patience Is to be commented. Love, All 
BUNSIES!II Your mom has great fashion sense· J 
•
Winning Is the game wei/keto play/ 
Go Kohler Kool Kalal 
TO THE SAINTS OF FARLEY 409 .. 

SUE, JENNY, AMY, AND MARILU "So many minors, so lew I. D.'s" Thanks for making our 1st N.D. St. Pat's Day memorable. You guys are SPECIAL!! I! Love, Your'Sher 
The Observer Wednesday, March 19, 1986-page 9 
Irish golf team prepares for season on seven difficult courses in Fla. 
By ORLANDO RVBIANO teams," said O'Sullivan. "Last year according to O'Sullivan. Sports Writer we played in the Florida Interna­This year's team, which is tional University Tournament, and seventh-ranked in its district (which 
The Notre Dame men's golf team we finished a strong third in a field includes Iowa, Minnesota, Illinois, is eagerly anticipating the start of of 16. Michigan, Ohio and Indiana) in the upcoming season. Coach Noel "This fall we had a good season pre-season rankings, in one of the O'Sullivan will fine-tune his team in and I hope it will carry over. I am msot experienced that O'Sullivan Florida over the spring break vaca­really looking forward to this trip, has had. The six-man 'gold team' tion, but for his golfers it will be because Miami is a great place to consists of four seniors, one junior, anything but a vacation. visit, and the people are wonder­and a sophomore. Another set of 
The itinerary for the trip, which ful." six players makes up the 'blue team' was put together by O'Sullivan and After spending the last three which plays a schedule of junior business manager Joe O'Brien, in­seasons in the Midwestern Col­college opponents. 
The Oboerver!FilePhoto 

cludes visits to seven of the top 40 legiate Conference, the Irish finish­The leader of the four seniors is Notre Dame golfer Chris Bona keeps warm as he lines up a put golf courses in Florida. Among ed second in the conference last captain John O'Donnovan, who in play last year. Bona and the Irish should not have to bundle up these are the Dora! Blue and Key fall. However, the team was left has three monograms and was a over the break when tHey travel to Florida to prepare for the Biscayne located in Miami, and out of the conference this year and medalist at the Spartan Invitational season. Orlando Rubia no previews the team's trip at/eft. Jupiter Hills near West Palm will play as an independent. The last fall. O'Donnovan has been a Beach. move may hurt the team's chances steady performer throughout his 
O'Sullivan is hopeful that this of securing an NCAA bid at the end college career. Senior John An­

Letters
trip will be the springboard his of the season, as O'Sullivan feels thony was a Division I Academic team will need for a good season. his team was a strong contender for All-American last year. Anthony 
continuedfrom page 12 
"Playing seven of the finest the conference title which carries an currently has two monograms. 
Dear Chuck, 
courses in eight days should be a automatic bid to the NCAA tour­Rounding out the rest of the seniors 
Nancy and I have always had a special fondness for Gerry tremendous experience for our nament. are Lon Huffman and Steve 
Faust. Why is it that you ba~ to treat him so badly while he was at guys," he said. "All of these courses "It will be harder to qualify as an Fuhrer, who have two and one 
Notre Dame? are frightening to play on for most 
indepe:nd•:nt, but his is one of the monograms respectively. The 
Ronald Reagan young golfers, but playing on them underclassmen consist of junior 

can only help our players play bet­Chris Bona, with two monograms, ter golf and gain individual ex­and sophomore Richard Connelly, perience. who has one monogram. 
"Every course we will play on has These six will carry the fortunes a course rating higher than the par of the 1985-86 Irish golf team, who for the course. This means that you will tee it up for real against Lewis are playing on a great course. University on April 1 at home at Florida has 800 of the best golf Burke Memorial. 
courses in the world, and it has the best courses in the United States." 
The team leaves Thursday and arrives back on Easter Sunday. O'Sullivan stressed that the trip will Noel O'Sullivan not be a vacation, but a chance for best teams I've put together, and his team to prepare and work hard the most significant factor is that I on its game. don't foresee any problems with the 
"This is our seventh year going team," he said. The Purdue Invita­down there, but it will be the first tional in early April should be a time we will not compete with other guage for the success of the team 
Sorry 

Because of continuing pro­blems with our typesetter, Sports Wednesday does not appear in today's Observer. It will resume after break. 
Dear Mr. President, 
Sorry you feel so badly about my treatment of Coach Faust. Now that he's at Akron, though, maybe you could make a new movie about him. Call it ''Win One for the Zipper." 
Dear Chuck, 
You are the most arrogant and obnoxious writer I have ever read. You think everything you write in your columns is the Ten Commandments. What do you think you are, some kind of eternal God? 
Dear Mom, 

I told you never to write me at the office. 
Pick of the Week ••. In the spirit of this mail column, send me a post card from wherever you go on spring break. Several Irish teams will be on the road, so you might see if any are in your area and take in a game or two. 
Wherever you go, do so with caution, especially if you're driv­ing. Remember, folks, you can't drive a lemon if you're already juiced. 




BRIGADIER GENERAL ROBERT R. RANKINE, JR. 
will discuss 
STRATEGIC 'DEFENSE INITIATIVE 
'·:. •:. 

Thursday, 
March 20 8:00p.m. 
Washington Hall 
OPEN TO STUDENTS AND FACULTY 


The Observer VVednesday, March 19, 1986-page 10 

The Observer/File photo 
Irish senior Susie Panther fires a backhand shot during a match against Evansville this past fall. Panther and the J:Votre Dame women's tennis team will take part in the lavers Invitational Tour­nament in Delray Beach, Fla., during spring break. Kathleen McKernan previews the tournament at right. 
SPRING 


TRAVEL SPECIAL 
to Chicago's O'Hare 
f:l Midway Airport One WaySZOOOaound Trip$)000 
Available february 15th throqh March Jist. Tkkets p1U'dlalcd ua•lc dlroqlaoat Ul6 

Long Island Bus 

Spring Break 
Round trip $77 One way $50 
Bus leaves March 21 & returns Aprill 
Contact Tom 204Zahm 283·1252 
Women's tennis team goes south, meets five schools in Lavers Invite 
By KAmLEEN McKERNAN 
Sports Writer 
While Florida may be typical spr­ing break destination, the Notre Dame women's team will not be engaging in typical spring break ac­tivities next week in Delray Beach. The Irish will participate in the week-long Lavers Invitational Tournament. 
''We really have our work cut out for us," Irish head coach Michele Gelfman said. "Next week is pro­bably going to be the most intense we have had or will have this year." 
Except for an off-day next Thursday, the Irish will play a match every day next week starting with Denison on Monday and con-eluding with Rice on Saturday. The match against Denison should not be a problem for the 6-2 Irish, but the rest of the week will undoubted­ly be a serious challenge. 
On Tuesday, the Irish take on Tennessee-Chattanooga, last year's Division II National Champion. Last, year's Devision II runners-up just happen to be the Irish. Tues­day's tennis should be intense as Tennessee-Chattanooga tries to repeat last year's win and the Irish look for some revenge. 
Notre Dame plays Miami on Wednesday. Miami, ranked number-eight on the most recent poll, also have nationally-ranked player, Susie Panther, gets to test her skill against Miami's Ronni Reis, who is ranked third in the na­tion. Mary Colligan will face fifth­ranked Lisa Gregory in the second­flight position. 

Miami's doubles teams have even more impressive national rankings. The Hurricanes' current number­one and two doubles teams also hold those places on this week's poll. Expect Notre Dame's Panther­Michelle Dasso to play Miami's Reis-Gregory team, while the Irish 
team  of  Colligan-lzzy  O'Brien  
takes  on  second-ranked  Riache- 
Richman.  
Friday,  Notre  Dame  plays  11­ 

linois, who beat the Irish 5-4 in the fall season. Rice, whose first-flight player Wendy Wood is ranked 13th nationally, will be the Irish oppo­nent on Thursday. 
"Rice is an incredibly talented team," Gelfman noted. "With Rice, and for the entire week,. we just have to make sure we are mentally prepared." 
This week of mid-term exams and papers has been ·~specially draining for the team. In addition to working on the physi<:al tennis skills, this week the Irish women have been concentrating on the mental aspects of the game in an ef­fort to stay ready. 
"The team played an outstanding physical game against Michigan week we've been working on a lot of serve and volley. We've also been working on our finesse shots. 
"As far as the mental preparation goes, we've been working a lot at mental-toughness rituals and positive mental attitueds. Things like body language after losing a point, visual imagining of a play, getting psyched-all are very impor­tant in tennis. We've been practic­ing key situations, working on the big points. 
"The toughest part about this mid-term week is keeping the team up mentally," she continued. They're all so academically inclined -and that's the way it should be ­but it's hard with all their work to keep the team up." 
Thanks toyou... it works... forALLOFUS 
•
Unitedway 

players. Notre Dame.·s.first-fllig!h!t!!!!!las!!t!wlee=k=e!ndi'i="~G=e~lf~m~a~n~s~ai~id~.~"T~hi=s~=~~===~~~~=-­
111 




WEDNESDAY 
1f00[g [fl~1r CflOlDl!.OOO lD~OO[p) 
Budweiser and Budweiser Lite draft SPECIALS 
THURSDA~Y 
SPRING BREAK SPECIALS It's the semester end clearance sale!! Spring's in -Winter's out! 


FOR CLUB RENTALS CALL: BRYAN DEDRICK 283-11089 239-7521 





'JI['~~C3L~-----------------------------------------------W·e·d·n-es.d.ay_,_M
__ar.c.h.I9_,_1_9_86_-_p_a.ge--ll 


Zz 
ACROSS 1 Hauls 6 Shatter 
11 Nomad or 
Saudi 13 Magic potion 15 "Who-call 
Himself a man" 16 Arbiter 17 Was Indebted 18 Salad herb 20 Fruit drink 21 Johnny­22 Animal's quest 23 Small bills 24 Land of 
shamrocks 26 Winged 27 Previn of 
music 28 Breastbone 30 Happiness 31 River isles 32 "The Censor" 33 Avant-­35 Seaman 38 Clayey 
deposits 39 Mollify 40 Traffic sign 42 Defense force 43 Foster or 
Harris 44 Gr. letter 45 Roman god 46 Irish 48 Mild oath 49 Immortal 51 Recount 53 Feels 
displeasure 54 Mournful one 55 Condition 56 Tries 
DOWN 1 Bureau 
sections 2 Cheese dish 3 Resting 4 Soldiers 5 Fill and 
satisfy 6 Chase 7 Abundant 8 Beverage 
l'P t.IK€ ~€ W KN(JN 7HAT 
I., UX.JKIN& FOR N€W l7/K£CTIONS 

IN lt'.Y ~IF6 .1 IM CJOUF!r/Nb MY ctl7 W\WI'5 ANV IWIS5€S51N6 MY FW ACCllt\R.ISHMENT5 ... ANI7 FRANKLY, If+f b£mN6 A 
U1'rl£ c;t:;(Jf{f,SS6V ABOI/r 
~~ 1H/Nb~,----~ 
'I 
9 Twisted fibers 1 0 Ones who pay 
attention 11 Idolize 12 Perplex 13 One who snoops 14 Della of song 19 Small amount 23 Liver's 
partner 25 Almost 26 Poker money 27 High: pref. 29 Clears and 
removes 30 Fermented 
yeast 32 Vocation 33 Carports 34 Part of a sofa 35letters 36 Posh 37 Turns 38 Cheek bone 39 Board game 41 Certain bird 
11

r~)
,,,\,..tt,_ 
L.OOI< PALS, Do ITRII?IHTd? 
toN'r"DO IT AT ALL. r 
\NANTT() L<XK GREAT COINN IN FLORIDA , SO TURN me ()tAL UP 
FRDM "ALABA>rc:R'm "BRONZE; f.l<A'I'? 


Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
H. s "IM. p "ISE TT
0 C T 0 0 R L 0 P A R I A S T E M I R A N I B I T S T H R E E R I N G C I R C U S 
-ST~LE.
G A S P E E T H 0 S 
A B 0 u• A C T I 0 N. S H E ~ 4rfi. N I U M A N D B A I 'feY S T A·R--MO R E 
OGRIES EMBER R E A D E A N N A­

"""'i'"'• '1'" ..
L E I  S  R A D 0 N  U V E A  
E R 0 S  IO  L I  V E  R A N K  
R 0 S A  T 0 T E R  E L S E  

3/19/86 

43 Adhesive 48 Noted times 46 Civilized 50 Measure of man: abbr. yarn 47 Tea or go 52 Fish eggs 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

AND WHAT AIIOII ~117/?U AG£ nu:; 81151Nf.55 
HAS COME A 
~~!

WE.€ E.ARL.Y fOR MR. &INKUY. I llON'r 
UK£ IT! 
~~ I 
I 
Kevin Walsh 
ZE"T01 J)O Me A FAilOR AND CAU.. TI-lt 8CTTER 
BU511\/C.S5 8Ufi!EAU. 


Campus 
•12:15 
p.m. -Meeting, "Spiritual Roots for Spring 1986," Dolores Leckey, Saint Mary's and "Practical Mysticism," by Evelyn Underhill, Stapleton Lounge, Sponsored by the Saint Mary's Center for Spirituality 

•2:30 
p.m. -Tax Assistance Program, Center for Social Concerns coffee house 

•3:20 
p.m. -Workshop, Prof. Michael Rad­zicki, Notre Dame, Room 131 Decio, Spon­sored by the Economics Labor/Public Policy Workshop 

•3:30 
p.m. -Softball, Saint Mary's vs. Notre Dame, Angela Athletic Facility 

•3:30 
p.m. -Meetihg, Chimes, editorial meeting, 316 Madeleva, Sponsored by the, Saint mary's Literary Magazine 

•4 
p.m. -Meeting, Pax Christi, Forum on Non-Violence, Thomas Merton, Center for Social Concerns 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Chemistry of Zeolites," Prof. J. M. Thomas, Room 123 Nieuwland 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, Prof. Charles Curtis, se­cond floor of the Computing Center and Math Building, Sponsored by the Kenna Lectures in Mathematics 


t American Heart Association
V 

"Grog ... They play our song." 
•6:15 
p.m. -Meeting, Circle K, Center for Social Concerns 

•7 
p.m.-Fellowsltlp, Spiritual Rock Christian Fellowship, Keenan-Stanford Chapel 

•7 
p.m. -Meeting, Notre Dame Hawaiian Club, Lewis Party Room 7 p.m. -Movie, "My Man Godfrey," Center for Social Concerns 

•7, 
9 & 11 p.m. -Movie, "Spring Break," Engineering Auditorium, Spohsored by SAB, $1 

•s 
p.m.-RASTA Java, with live guitar music & open jam, poetry readings & donuts with the coffee for sale, Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by RAST A 

•10:30 
p.m. -Campus Perspectives, John Kennedy, Irish singer, will be interviewed by Lynne Strand on WVFI-AM 640, Listeners can call at 239-6400 

•12:15 
p.m. -Concert, A Lenten Organ Mini Recital; Clayton Henderson, Little Theatre, Moreau Hall, Sponsored by Saint mary's Dept. of Music 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Scottish Beef Roulade Spaghetti with Italian Meat sauce Broiled haddock almondine Sausage Patty Biscuit 
Saint Mary's 

• 
Turkey Cutlet with parsley Sauce Beef Taco with Hot Sauce Corn Souffle Quiche Lorraine 

The Nazz Competitionis coming ... 
On Friday, April 4th you will compete for: QUESTIONS? Call Liz 283-2985 

Atiltltti~Bl\tltf.l¥11!'·'.

*CASH PRIZES!
*A postion in the Saturday showcase • 
performance (April 5th) *A chance to play with MAX WEINBERG 
SPONSORED BY: THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 

7:00. 9:00. 11 :00 p.m. 
$1.00

Please, no food or drinks in Auditorium 

S~orts 
\Vednesday, March 19, 1986-page 12 


Chuck ltas the answers for his (~olumn critics 
Chuck Freeby 
Irish Items 

r 
I 
I ~ 
f 
Hello again, everybody! 
With the Notre Dame basketball season coming to l!.n abrupt end last weekend, things have quieted down on the campus sports scene. It gives us a chance to pour through tpe mailbag, and answer some of the letters that have trickled in from readers across the campus and around the nation. 
Remember, these are based on actual letters from actual readers, and we've answered these ever since this column began in ... when was it, Paul, the late '50s? 
Dear Chuck, 
Thanks for your column which picked Cleveland. The words have been hanging in our locker room and have served as an in­spiration to the team. We were wondering if you could write some more remarks about Cleveland before our game with Navy Friday night. 
Kevin Mackey, Cleveland State University 

Dear Coach, "" 
· Congratulations on your victories in the tournament. Sorry I can't help you, but pc:rhaps you could use a few words from Bob Knight. 
As I'm sure you know, coach Knight noted that many fans in Cleveland had said your Vikings had two chances in the first round -slim and none. To that statement, Knight responded, "There must be a lot of dumb people in Cleveland." 
Of course, you would have to take it out of context to make it ef­fective. I'm sure he won't mind, though. Take it from a sports writer. 
Dear Chuck, 
Thanks for the kind comments. Sorry I won't see you in Kansas City! Scott Skiles 
Dear Scott, 
Yes, it is too bad that Notre Dame won't be going to Kansas Ci­ty. perhaps we can hit the bars over spring break. Oops, sorry, I forgot. 
Dear Chuck, 
Considering your record of last year's predictions, we would ap­preciate it if you would not pick us to win the national League East. Dwight is having a good spring, Keith has overcome his drug problems, and our lineup looks solid. We don't need you to jinx us. 
Davey Johnson New York Mets 

Dear Davey, 
Sorry, I can't help you. The Mets have to be prohibitive favorites to win it all in '86. However, Larry Burke does feel Pittsburgh could make a comeback. 
Mr.Freeby, 
Never in the disreputable history of the genre known ~eretofore as the print medium of sports journalism have I seen a wnter drone with such insipid prose as your report on th~ original cycle of fights in the Bengal Bouts. You are an authentic prototype o~ the horde nown as sports writers who pollute the pages of Amencan 
newspapers. 
Howard Cosell 

Dear Howie, 
Thanks for your opiJrlion, but how do you really feel? 
Dear Chuck, 
I recently have falllen on hard times and am looking for employ­ment. I have only had one job for the last 25 years, but I have been forced to relocate siince losing my job. I was wondering if you could suggest any openings. 
Your friend, Dear Mr. Marcos, Ferdinand Marcos In looking at yoUJr past job history and your credentials, your 
best bet would be to apply for a position as an assistant football coach at the University of Akron. While the head man there has never been to the Philippines, he has vowed that one day he shall 
return. 
Dear Chuck, 
I hate you and I hate all Notre Dame students. You stole our football coach away from us, and I will never forgive any of you. A disgruntled Minnesota alumnus 
Dear Mr. Minnesota, 
I hate you and all people from Minnesota. You voted for Walter Mondale, and America will never forgive any of you for that. 
Dear Chuck, 
You may have just won $10 million dollars. Ed McMahon Wait a minute, how did that get in here? 
Dear Chuck, . Thanks for costing me $2 in the NCAA pool. You said there would be fewer upsets and loosely-officiated games. Hal Only seven seeds are left in the tournament. A lot you know. 
• A Grace Hall R.A. 
DtarR.A., 
At least "1..knew enough not to bet $2 on anything that ever aP­peared in thli'Coluritl1. see LETIERS, page 9 
A Notre Dame lacrosse player takes a shot on the spring seson when they travel to Virginia for a Michigan goal during a scrimmage earlier this series ofgames during the break. Pete Skiko relates week. The Irish see their first official action of the the details ofthe trip below. 
ND lacrosse team heads for Va. for series of contests during break 
ByPETESKIKO and Mary and Washington and Lee out is that his team is working Sports Writer will be his team's toughest competi­hard, playing great defense and has tion during the road swing, but ex­good depth. He feels that co­While most of the rest of us will plains that VMI and Radford could captain Tom Grote and senior mid­
be either at home or on our way to surprise. fielder Tim Corrigan are asserting a warm vacation spot somewhere, "VMI is developing a program themselves early, but that offen­the Notre Dame men's lacrosse with a new head coach," he added. sively, someone new could take team will be travelling to Virginia "We beat Radford last year at charge in any game. for break. The Irish will visit home, but they will probably give Especially pleasing to the coach Virginia Military Institute, us a good battle. William and Mary is his ample supply of talented Washington and Lee, Radford and beat us convincingly two years ago, freshmen making the trip to William and Mary for games next but I'd say we're a lot closer to their Virginia. Among these are Brendan week. ability this year. The strongest team Cahill, John Olmstead and Dave 
Irish head coach Rich O'Leary we'll play should be Washington Kidder. expects some tough competition on and Lee. 1'hey lost to (perennial "Brendan looks to be one of our the trip but is anxious to see how power) Duke by one point earlier in first subs in," said O'Leary. "John his team performs as a road under­the year and have good experience has been hurt, but will play this dog. on their team." weekend and could have an im­
"All of these teams are already O'Leary is realisticially hopeful meaiate impact for us. Dave is im­well into their seasons," said the about his ~quad's chances over proving each week and showing us sixth-year head coach. ''They've break. that he's ready to play at the col­played five to six games already "Going 2-2 would be realistic," egiate level. These freshmen are and all we've really had is a scrim­he said, ''but of course I'd like to pushing the upperclassmen for star­mage. But we played well against see us sweep. It will take a very ting spots." Michigan (in the scrimmage) and good pe1rformance to beat The Irish play VMI next Mon­this is probably the hardest­Washington and Lee. We'll find out day, Washington and Lee on working group we've had here. I a lot ·about our team by playing Wednesday, Radford on Friday, think we'll be ready to play." them." and William and Mary on Monday, 
O'Leary anticipates the William What O'Leary has already found March3I. 

l.loltz is pleased with what he sees at football team's spring workouts 
By MARTY BURNS 

linebackers Robert Banks and One reason for the apparent in­Assistant Sports Editor Cedric Figaro on the defensive line, tensity may be the presence of and offensive linemen Tom Gor­Holtz down on the field with the 
New Notre Dame football coach man and Marty Lippincott also on coaches instead of high up in the Lou Holtz finally got to meet his the defensive line. tower as was the preference of inheritance this week as 1986 spring Although the limited number of former head coach Gerry Faust. football workouts got underway on returning players in some areas, Even with this important benefit, the practice fields behind the ACC. especially 1:>n the defensive line however, the primary advantage to And if the first four practices are where only three monogram win7 having Holtz in close proximity to any indication, the relationship ners remain, would seem to in­the huddle may come in the area of should prove to be a long and dicate a slower practice schedule, instruction and teaching fun­friendly one. Holtz and lh.is coaches have main­damentals. This is what Holtz 
"We've got four solid days in so tained a normal schedule complete wanted to emphasize in the early far and I've been very pleased with with limited contact. sessions of the spring. the intensity and attitude of this "We hav1: to approach this like ''We want them to develop good bunch," said Holtz after yesterday's we have the numbers," said Holtz. work habits and to improve their rain-soaked session that ended up ''The position changes are required knowledge of the game," said looking like a mudwrestling match. 
Holtz. ''We'll continue to work on "I think we have the talent here. I've fundamentals. We want everyone
Spring
never seen a group that impressed out there to get better this spring, me as much with the way they all Football because that's the only way we can encourage each other. We threw a expect to improve next fall. I was lot at them in a few days, and they ·s6 also a bit concerned about our team responded well." speed, but I've· found that we're 
While Holtz' new relationship out of necessity, but they've been a deceptive there because we carry was no doubt the most important pleasant surprise. The concentra­our pads a lot better than most one of the week, it was by no means tion out here has been teams." the only one. Several veteran unbelievable." One player who has been par­players were introduced to DIW The concentration of the squad, ticularly impressive carrying his positions in an effort to shaN·• which numbers almost 100 total pads and hauling down receptions the depth chart in some areu IDil players, has been steady is sophomore flanker Tim Brown. to get players in positions when throughout each of the two-hour­Holtz, who missed seeing Brown's they can tap the most potential. plus sessions, with only one 25 receptions for the Irish last 
Among those players workina apparently-slight lapse late Sunday season, saw enough of the out at new slots were split end afternoon. The team did not prac­Alvin Miller at tiaht end, flanker tice Monday after concluding the see WORKOUTS, page 8 
Mark Green at tailback, three-day workout on Sunday. 
.. 






