---------------------.--~-------­
Hammer murder -page 3 

an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Bishop Malone chosen to speak at 1986 commencement exercises. 
By DAN McCULLOUGH Theodore ) Hesburgh," said Michael menton the extx:cted upcoming let­Senior StaffReporter Garvey. assistant director of public ter on women in the Church. relations and information for the The son of an Irish-American 
Bishop james Malone of University. Youngstown steelworker, Malone, 
Youngstown, Ohio, will be the Garvey said it is standard 66, has been the bishop of 
speaker at the 1986 Notre Dame procedure to wait until all the Youngstown since 1968. He was or­
commencement exercises, The Ob· recipients of honorary degrees have dained a priest in 1945, and he has 
server learned yesterday. been contacted before announcing served as an assistant pastor, the su­
Malone is the president of the Na­the commencement speaker. He perintendent of schools in the 
tional Conference of Catholic 
Diocese of Youngstown, and 
Bishops as well as the bishop for the auxiliary bishop. He was named a 
Young.'il<>wn diocese, which in­bishop in 1960. 
cludes 1.97 priests. Malone was overwhelmingly 
The office of the Youngstown elected bishops' conference presi­
dhx:ese confirmed that Malone will dent on Nov. I 'i, 1983, and he will 
be the commencement speaker, al­serve in that position until Novem­
though Notre Dame officials refused ber ofthis year. 
to verify Malone would be SJ><:aking. Malone served as the vice presi­
When asked 10 confirm that dent of the NCCB from 1980 to 
Malone would be speaking, Erin 1983. 
Baker, a secretary at Malone's Last year's Notre Dame com­
Youngsrown office, replied, "As far mencement speaker was El Salvador 
as I know, yes." Baker added, Bishop Malone President jose Napolean Duarte. 
"'there's a paper here for a speech at added, however, that he expected In an article in the Nov. 25, 1983 Notre Dame on May I H." all the names to be announced wit­edition of the National Catholic Commencement exercises at hin the next 24 hours. Reporter, an interviewer asked Notre Dame will take place May 18. The Bishops' conference has Malone what he discussed with But Notre Dame administrators issued controversial letters on President Reagan in a meeting soon refused to verify Malone as the nuclear war and on poverty. The after Malone's election as NCCB speaker. group is extx:cted to address the prdident. "I ... told him that con­
"As usual, I can't t'onfirm or deny role of women in the Church in the sidering how Notre Dame has been anything until I get the O.K. from near future. doing, maybe he should go out there (University President Father Baker said she could not com-and win another one for them." 

3rd World Awareness Week begins 
Big Wheel on Campus 

ByJ. CHRISTOPHER MURPHY musical entertainment to promote • Professor Kwan Kim will be A Notre Dame student finds getting around on campus ti a Jot
News Staff the week. speaking on the Third World debt at "It's a way for the different stu­1 p.m. tomorrow in the Library 
easier with wheels -that ts, ifbe can manage to dodge those who Third World Awarenes.'i Week at dent organizations who are con­Lounge. 
stillprefer to get to class on their own two feet. 
Notre Dame. sponsored by the cerned with Third World problems • Professor Martin Murphy will 
Overseas Development Network, to work together,' to have more im­speak on the U.S. attitude toward 
begins tonight. pact on the Notre Dame com­development at 1 p.m. on Sunday in 
Grand jury to investigate 
According to Sophia Twarog. munity," said Twarog. "Each group the Library Lounge, and Roberto chairman of the ODN, the week of retains its individuality yet we can DaMatta will be speaking on social t·vents is designed to enhance the work together." and. cultural aspects of Brazil at 3 


baby found in LeMans Hall 
awareness of problems in the entire Notre Dame's Overseas Develop­p.m. Sunday. 
Special to The Qbscrvcr proximately 8:45 a.m. with the um­'lhird World, not simply Africa. ment Network is a chapter ofan in­• A spokesman for World Students bilica,l cord wrapped around its 

Twarog said she began work on ternational group of student For Peace and Understanding will The St. Joseph County Grand jury neck. St. joseph County Coroner Dr. Feb. 24 to develop the role of the organizations. The network has a speak at 7:30 on Sunday in the 
will review all available evidence Louis Grwinski estimated the time of network on campus. She said she revolving fund which contributes to Ubrary Lounge. Tuesday concerning the Saint Mary's birth at approximately 3 a.m. 

realized there were many student the projects oflocal chapters. 

• Professor Charles Wilber will student who gave birth to a baby It is Grwinski's opinion that the groups on campus with the same ob­Twarog and Richard Schwartz, as­speak on the implications of the U.S. found dead Feb. 28 in a LeMans Hall baby was stillborn, said Baines. The jet·tives a.'i the: ODN, and decided to sistant chairman of ODN, arc plan­Bishops' Pastoral Letter on the bathroom trash can, according to St. grand jury will decide whether or get them all together to sponsor one ning to sponsor another week in the Economy at 7 p.m. on Tuesday at the joseph County Prosecutor Michael not to bring charges against the stu· joint week ofevents. 
fall. Twarog said they hope t<) make Center for Social Concerns. Barnes. dent, he said. 
'Ihe World Hunger Coalition, 

the week an annual event. • The film, "The Official Story," will Although this Is not necessarilyRally Against Starvation, Wor)d Stu­
be shown at 7:30p.m. and 9:30p.m. The student has been issued a sub­standard procedure, the grand juryThe following is a tentativedent'i for Peace and Understanding, next Friday in the Annenberg . poena to attend the closed hearing review is occurring because of un­schedule ofthe week's events:
and Student Organization for Latin Auditorium. and has sought counsel, Barnes said. usual circumstances surroundingAmerica each are sponsoring one • Professor Kenneth jameson will • Coffeeshops, exotic foods, music The hearing concerns the full­the case, he said. All evidence will be 
event during the week. ODN is spon­open the week as he speaks at the and poetry also will be available term white male which was found 
examined by the grand jury, accord­soring workshops. cotfeeshops and esc at 7 p.m. tonight. throughout the week. by a cleaning woman at ap­ing to Barnes. 





ND students: Despite jet blast, keep troops out of Libya 
By MARK PANKOWSKI tion last week. Police in several we have a right perhaps to retaliate rorism," Ratclitfe said. "You have One of the two ROTC students News Editor nations said yesterday that they in specific instances, like for things to take a stand somewhere and it's interviewed said if t!Je Ubyan were hunting for a female Arab ter­they're responsible for," said Paul gone long enough without leader were not bc:hind the blast, Even if investigators learn rorist suspected of planting the Schloemer, a junior psychology someone doing something about then he would not be: willing to Ubyan leader Moammar K.hadafy bomb which caused the blast. major and Naval ROTC midship­it." serve in Libya even if called to do were behind Wednesday's jetliner Although Khadafy has man. "But we have no right to take so. "If we turned around now and
After the airliner explosion, 

bomb explosion, a majority of threatened to retaliate with attacks over their country or invade." invaded, and so far as I've seen they
eight ofthose 12 were available for 

Notre Dame students interviewed on U.S. targets for last week's con­The only student interviewed (Libyans) have done nothing to
comment. Six of those eight said 

would not support sending U.S. frontation, he denied Libyan in­who said he supported sending deserve that, then I'd have to resist
they would still oppose sending 

troops to Libya in retaliation. ' volvement in the airliner troops to Libya before the jetliner fighting," said Schloemer.
troops to Libya even if it were dis­

In addition, a majority of stu­explosion. blast said such a move would help "If Khadafy were positively
covered Khadafy was behind the 

dents questioned support the Eleven of the 12 students inter­stop· terrorism. "Khadafy has linked to It (the blast), then maybe:
blast. United States' crossing K.hadafy's viewed after the confrontation but publicly supported terrorism. Not we could sec a direct threat and I
Theresa Lawton, a sophomore

"line of death," despite that ac­before the blast said they would only In words, but In supplying would go," he said. "It's not like I'd 
psychology major, said she would

tion's possible connection to the not support sending U.S. troops to arms and weapons and also giving want to go but I would." 
not support sending troops "on the

bomb blast which killed four Ubya. During that skirmisti, U.S. terrorists refuge to terrorism," said The other ROTC student inter-1
basis ofthat one incident."

Americans. planes came under fire and at­john Ratcliffe, a juniorgovernment viewed, junior finance major Scott 
A Palestinian group claimed tacked a Libyan missile installation major. "I think you can't attack ter­Fabian, said he would serve in responsibility for the bombing on and patrol boats. "I think It (sending troops to rorism by sending troops to Libya Libya if called whether or not Wednesday, saying it was in retalia­"It (Libya) is no direct threat to Libya) is nece!ISary In terms of even if Khadafy were responsible 
See DEATH, pap5

tion for the U.S.-Ubyan confronta-our national security and therefore taking a step tbwards stopping tcr-for the bomb," Lawton added. 

The Observer Friday, April 4, 1986 -page 2 


In Brief 
"Bloom County" cartoonist Berke Breathed is 
dropping a few hints about a plot_ for his comic strip no)\' that he's back at work after recouperating from a broken back suffered in an airplane crash. "I would be willing to say there's a possibility one of the characters," maybe Steve Dallas, the strip's womanizing lawyer, "gets a broken back by taking a picture ofSean Penn," Breathed says. After seven weeks of reruns, the nationally syndicated "Bloom County" resumed publication of new strips Monday in roughly 700 newspapers, including The Observer. -AP 
Of Interest 
An Tostal staff members must attend a mandatory meeting Sunday at 7 p.m. in the library auditorium. -The Observer 
An art ShOW by Notre Dame and Purdue design students will finish its run tomorrow in Riley Hall's Isis Gallery. Everyone is welcome to attend a closing reception tomorrow from 4 to 6 p.m. ­
The Observer 
Three deaconswill be ordained Roman Catholic priests in the Congregation of Holy Cross by the Most Reverend Mark McGrath, Archbishop of Panama, in Sacred Heart Church tomorrow at I :30 p.m. Ordained will be Francis Murphy, Mark Thesing and Thomas Streit, assistant rector ofMorrissey Hall. A reception will be held at the Center for Continuing Education after the ceremony. ­
The Observer 
"The Ethics ofTrade Regulation" will be 
the topic ofa lecture given by Terry Calvani, acting chairman of the United States Federal Trade Commission, Monday at noon in the Law School student lounge. Calvani's lecture is sponsored by the Law School's Thomas J. White Center on Law and Government. -The Observer 
"Crucifixion in Central America: The 
Church and U.S. policy in Nicaragua" will be the topic of a lecture given by Father William Lewers, C.S.C. today in Room 10I the Law School: The lecture is sponsored by the Social Justice Forum. -The Observer 
Finishers·ofthe Saint Patrick's 5K Run who did not receive a T-shirt may pick one up Monday from 3 to 5 p.m. at the Student Activities Board office. -The Observer 
The Chicago City Limits National Touring Com­pany will perform tomorrow at 8 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. Ticket information is available bycalling the Saint Mary's Box Office. The program is sponsored by the Saint Mary's student government. ­
The Observer 
TheFirstAnnualFineArts Festival will be held at Saint Mary's today through Saturday, April 19. The festival, named "The Urge to Art," is designed to provide the community with an ex­posure to the fine arts and to demonstrate the collaborative pos­sibililities between art, dance, music and theater. The festival will open tonight at 8 in the Regina Hall dance studio. -The Observer 
Dance Relief, the dance of Third World Awareness Week, will be held tomorrow from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. at the South Dining Hall. The S3 admission fee will go directly to Third World development. -The Observer 
Students from around the world will discuss "Pathways to peace and understanding" from different cultural, religious and political perspectives Sunday at 7:30p.m. in the library lounge. The talk is part of Third World Awareness Week and all interested are urged to attend. -The Observer 

Weather 
That hard-earned tan may fade today, as April showers continue. A 50 per­cent chance oflight rain with some possible late afternoon sunshine. High in the upper 60s. Cooler tonight with lows near 50. Warm and moist tomorrow with the high in the lower 70s. Hang in there. -AP 

-. -------&..o:=Y=-~ -.
--Ihe-Obse~~er---­
Design Editor................. Mark Mclaughlin Design Assistant.................. Allee Kroeger Layout Staff.................................. Greg Kerr Typesetters ...................................... Pat Clark 
Chuck Papandrea News Editor ................... Cindy Rauckhorst Copy Editor....................................Phil Wolf Sports Copy Editor.................. Larry Burke Viewpoint Copy Editor.......... Sue Dunbar 
The Obaerver ( t·sPS ~99 .l· .. tiiiO) is published Monday lhrouW> friday excep1 durin!( rxam and vacalion periods.lbeObeerver is published h)· 1he sludenl>nhhe l'niversil)' of Notn: Oamr and Saini Mary·s College. Subscriplions may be purcha.o;ed for J ~Cl per year ( J.lU per srmestrr) by writin~t The Obaerver, P.O. Box Q. Nmre l>ame. Indiana ..M'i6. 
1be ObRrver is a rnrmber of The AMoclakd Preu. AU reproduction ri!lhL• ar .. 
R:II"'Vcd. 
Viewpoint Layout...................Rob Bartolo Features Copy Editor......Gertie Wimmer Features Layout ............ Mark Mclaughlin NV Day Editor........................... Bill Herzog SMC Day Editor................. MaryJean Sully Ad Design ..................................... Jesse Pesta Fred Nelson Allison Fahrenkopf Photographer .......................... Paul Kramer 



Childhood freedoms found again at Walt Disney World 
When many people reflect back on the past spring break, memories of glorious drunken nights spent on the Ft. Lauderdale strip or glorious drunken days spent on the Daytona beaches may flash into their heads. 
On the other hand, many other people may think back to all of the good cooking and sleep they enjoyed while at home over break. 
However, whenever I think back to spring break '86 I will remember something quite different. 
I, along with a throng ofother college students across the nation, was fortunate enough to make the trek to sunny Florida. After staying a few days in Jacksonville, my two travelling companions Oim and Willie) and I decided to journey to Daytona, the sight ofthe big MTV spring break publicity hype. 
To our dismay, the Daytona nightlife did not seem to compare to Lauderdale, which Jim and I had ex­perienced last year. 
So, at approximately 2 a.m. in the corner ofa Daytona bar, Jim, Willie and I decided to have some real fun; bright 

and early the next morning By the time 2 p.m. rolled we would head off to the around and the sun had suffi­playground of the South ciently baked our han­Disney World. govers, Jim and Willie were 
Disney World is a place about ready for mutiny. that has intrigued me ever Therefore, I was forced to since I have been a little kid. halt my plans to go directly All of the glitter and excite­to "Mr. Toad's Wild Ride" ment of Walt Disney's after "It's A Small World" in dreamland makes it one of order for us to pick up a the most captivating and in­Western Burger at Pecos genious places in the world. Bill's Saloon. Jim and Willie In other words, I love Dis­were reluctant, but I ney World. Unfortunately managed to charge them up for them, Jim and Willie did for the remainder ofthe day. not know how deep my love Iguess I may have seemed for Mickey and my fervor for a little bit silly to some Space Mountain ran. people who saw me march· 
Right after we had made the decision to visit this Mecca ofmirth and fun, I was all aglow. I had not been to Disney World since I was about I3 years old, and then I was "too cool" to go on any of the rides or get my picture taken with Mickey. I must have mellowed with age, because Icould barely control my excitement over the thought of spending a whole day in the Magic Kingdom this spring. 
The next morning I knew that my meeting with Mickey was destined to happen because I woke up on the floor of a friend's hotel room at 8:45, exactly I 5 minutes before we decided to depart. I then proceeded to rouse Jim and Willie from their sleep and into their hangovers. A short time later, we were on the road to Disney World. 
For those who have never been to Disney World, it is the most organized establishment in the entire United States. We were directed to park the car in a section of the parking lot called "Donald 64" (as opposed to "Mickey 21" or"Pluto 36"). We then got in line to take a 

Serve In Appalachia 
Come for one week to serve the needs of the poor in Appalachia. Single, Catholic men are invited to be involved in home construction, visiting ·the elderly, and sharing one's gifts with mentally, emotionally and physically handicapped. There will also be oppor­tunities to learn about the culture, people, and music of the Appalachian area. 
The week-long sessions available are: 
May 17-23 June 7-13 July 12-18 July 26 -August 1 August 24 -30 
For more information aboullhe Summer Volunteer Program. please send this coupon to: Brother Jack Henn. Glenmary Home Missioners. 
P.O. Box 465618. Cincinnati. OH 45246-5618. 
______________________________ Age ______ 
City ---------------State----Zip 
College_____--:---.,-, 
8028·3186 

Kevin Becker 
Managing Editor 
tram to the main gate of the park and were almost trampled by a hoard of fanatic Mouseketeers. Once in the park, however, I made the metamorphosis from Dr. Domer to Mr. Mickey. 
To my friends' dismay, I became more fanatic about having a good time in Disney World than Mr. Griswald was about "Wally World." From the time we stepped on the ride "20,000 Leagues Under the Sea" until we wound up the night with a picture taken ofthe three of us donning Mickey Mouse ears, the day was one con­
tinuous flow of free-spirited 
fun-to me. 

ing around Disney World like a little child let loose in a candy store. I even guess I should have felt embarrassed when a woman pointed to the three of us wearing Mickey ears and told her child "look at the three big Mouseketeers." 
But that day, none ofthose things bothered me. 
For me, Disney World offered an opportunity to be a little kid again. I was away from the pressures and the worries that life under the Dome forces on all ofus. I did not have to worry about paying tuition or taking tests or writing papers. Disney World offered me a chance to be free from a world that tends to get old after a while. 
As proved by Jim and Willie, Disney World is not a wonderful, healing elixir for everyone. I could never thank them enough for just putting up with me and not leaving (although I had the car keys). But every once in awhile, everyone needs to go to his "Disney World" just to be silly and get away from it all. 
At a time in ourlives when it seems like we are always behind without the possibility ofcatching up, it's good to know that there is a place we can go to let the little kid in us run free. 


't' ­

The Observer Friday, April 4, 1986-page 3 

The ObKrver/Drew Sandler

Deathly humor 
Residents ofCavanaugh Hall bung this bannerfrom the south side ofthe ball to announce the ball's production of"Arsenic and Old Lace," scheduled for April 17, 18 and 19 

BLESSED SACRAMENT FATHERS AND BROTHERS (S.S.S) 
HrliKinu' rommunilit>\ atr a lui like ~ uu Ylnd mr. A,, Wt' look around, "r \t'f' prnplt• who rr\rmhlr U\ in man~ "ll)i~i-ph~sit:al fralurt'i, \han·d ft'tlintt"" and human t'\· prrlt'nrt'~, common Koal\-and ~rt who art' "~"'"" diffrrrnl from U\ in lh~ir indhidualit~. loo. \\'r arr drrinrd a' ptr,nn' h~ that which \llt't' lliiharr wllh lht' rr\1 nf pruple. and b• lhal whirh di•lingui,h.-'" lrnm nih•"· 
In lhr C'alhollr Chun·h fhrre ••• hun. drrd" of rrll~tlou!'i rnmmunilir,, or nrdrh. lht\t group~ of "rrUginu"" ml•n lind wumrn ha"r romr mat of a l'ommnn lradi­lion-,.hal Popr John Paul II lrrm' "lhr ron,trf81rd lifr"-and lhu" ha\r murh in rnmmon (lhr \UM-\, rommunll~ lhing, and ;a \harr in lhr ('hurrh'\ mi..... inn or 'prradinR lhr Kingdom ol (;odl. 
Dul rac;h rtliaiou' l'nmmunil~ ha~ \omrlhina "'hirh mJirk' il out a~to di\liRl'l from thr nlhtr\, ton. Thi~ t'hariun (or 2Ift ol lh• llnl) Splrlli Is ..rh rommunil) 's unlqur ldral or ,plril ,.hlrh,,. hrn •ddrd In lhr wholt. manift,lllii thr rirhnr\~to of lht my•lrr) or •alvalion In Jnus C'hrlsl. II is lillrd, llkr a singlr pitrr ol l'Oiorrd •tonr in­to a monic, In form part nf thr hi2~rr pk­turr of Jt"'U" ('hri!iil loda~. 
Thr Con2rt2afion of lhr Rlt'\"'-t'd Sana­mrnl jor lhr Blr\\rd Sacramrnl hfhrrs and Brolhrrsl is a rrlali>rl) n•" and 'mall (·om­munil~ umon2 thr C'hurrh's reliainus ordrr... Thr ('onRrt~aalion "'a"' fnundl•d in lhr )rar 1856 h) Saini Prlrr-Jullan t:~mard, popular!~ knol"n ., "lht' Apo..nr <•I tht t:uchari~l. ''In promolf' a..-arf'Rt"~to.\ of and apprrrlalion lor lhr rurharlslir Prnrnrr or lhr rlsrn Lord. hom ih hum· hlr brginnlna• In Paris, hanrr. lhr ('on. grr~tatlon toda) numbrr" 1200 mrmhrr'i in appro>imaftl) 34 nalions worldwldr. (;od 
Eucharist is our Gift . .. You can li.V! it for lifo! 
f,, Hn•th..·r HPhl•rt Zn'l!l'f'. \ \ \ ,,,...·;u~t•n ("••••hlm.n:,, I,,.,\\ ll,trrl'••n \t Chtt..'il).!tl II hOt.ll­
hot, I am ttllt..'fl''lt..'d tn tnforma1111n ••httUI llw Bk'''-'d \.t\:ranwntl"athl'r" and Bn•tlh.:r... I \~nuld Ilk..· t•• ~lln\~ ,lhtHII \tlUr t..'Pfl111lllllll\ \I udliHI,IIL 111"..•;md m''"'''n 
\h ,,11lh' ------------­
\tltlr~.·"·-------------­
. 0 l'k.,,,. ,..·tltltlh' m~·rm.tlt••n 
0 l'k.t•n· J'h•·n~· tl\1.' .11 \io,.',l ( ,.,t..· '--·---­
~The Blessed Sacramenl Fathers and Brolhers 
f'hunt·L'Ill lH·7.1UU 

ha!t! hlr...,rd thr "'ork of the ('on~re~alion l'nnrmou... l~ in il~ flr"t rentur~-and-a­quYrlrr ol lilr and labnr on brhall or fhr 
Kin~dnm. 
U hal di.. rinJt:ui:~~ht>\ the Rle.;:\ed ~~u.·ra· mrnl t"athrr' and Rrolhtr\ is lhfir intensr lu\r fHr thr Eucharist. ('erlainl~, lht.• t:m·hari... t hrlonJ!"'-to lhr t'nlire ('hun·h. but the Prie"h nnd Rruthtr" of the ('nn~rr~a­tinn haH• Ul't.'rplrd a sprdall'har.e,l' from the ( 'hunh to hr l'nntrmpurar~ apn!itlt•s of the t:urharist and of f'Ul'hari~ric lh in~. Thr J"hr Hult of I ill• pul' il I his ,. a): "Our idtal is to lhf.' thr Eul·hari!t!til' M~strr~ to thr fullest and In ma"'l•l'lear ils "i~nifirant.·e 1\o thatlht' kinRdnm of ('hrisl rna~ l'nmr.... •• ((J 
I irinK the t-·udwn\tir \l.ruery to in /illlt•\f mean"' de\rlopinrt ru.·r~ pns,ihll' dimfn,inn uf lht.• 1-:Ul·hari"it, Throulr!h a len l' for lh• l.ihtr~) and for pra)·rr brforr lhr Rll"~t.ott•d Sunamt•nl, through a lift' of hrnthrrl~ l'ORt.'l•rn in t.•ommunil~. and throuj.!h a lifr of "'-l'nicr and of drdil'ation to ju"itkr and pl·an·. Rlt'"'-\l'd Sarramrnl Falhr" and Druthn... \eek to sho"· all of us ho,. lullillin~ and demandin2 lift livrd in lhe IIRhl or rhr t:ul'harisl t•an bt! 
The ('on~r·~•fion or lhr Blr"rd Sarra· mrnl has ninr lcu:al communities throuj.!h~ nul the lfnitrd Stales. Sinrt rominK to New York C'il) in 19flfl. fhe Blr"rd Sarramenl hlhrrs and Brnfhrrs ha•• rxpandrd lhrir "ilnr"" and ministn to ('hit.'HKO, C"lr>rland, Alhuquerqu•. San Anlonio. Salf l.akr Cif), and olhrr rilirs and lowns. 
Thr lirr of rurharislir ttal slill burns in lht" hf'arh of lhO.'it' "·ho hat'f' followed in lht' loobleps or Saini Ptlrr-Julian Eymard. "-'e" Ktnrratlon\ uf apo\tlr"i of thr t:urhari"l t•onlinue his "ork and in~pira­lion. 'o lhal all ('hri\lian' miRhl hr morr grnuinrl~ ml•n and "omen of thr 1-:ul·hari"l. 



Mouasher named Scholastic editor 
By KENDRA MORRILL 
News Staff 
Notre Dame's Scholastic magazine has chosen Maher Mouas­her as its editor-in-chief for the 1986-87 school year. 
Mouasher, who is currently the general manager of the magazine, will take overJim Basile's position at the beginning of next year. 
The newly-elected Mouasher said he will be working closely with Basile for the remainder of the year to make the transition of leadership as smooth as possible. 
In addition to the new editor-in­chief, a new Scholastic editorial board also is being selected. Mouas­her was chosen by this year's board, he said, and he now is in the process of interviewing and selecting the in­coming board. 
He declined to name those who have been chosen to date, until all selections have been finalized. 
The ·board members, he said, will be chosen "from among those who most want to commit their time to 

Hammer 'suicide' may be murder 
Associated Press 
CROWN POINT, Ind. · The case of a man who died of 32 hammer blows to the head was reopened W ednes­day after a prosecutor announced what the coroner had argued all along: he could not have committed suicide and must have been mur· dered. 
The conclusion by Lake County Prosecutor Jack Crawford, reached after reviewing state police evidence, was a victory for County Coroner Daniel Thomas, who has in­sisted that Hobart police were wrong about the death of 52-year· oldJames A. Cooley. 
"Since April 1985, I have been saying that Cooley was murdered 
and  that  our  verdict  was  a  
homicide,"  Thomas  said  in  a  
telephone interview.  

Thomas says Cooley could not 
CAREERS IN MANAGEMENT THAT START IN MANAGEMENT 
The U. S. Navy Supply Corps has openings in training pro­grams offering early managerial and technical responsibilities. 
Qualified applicants receive 

the magazine and who will give the most back to the students." 
The new editorial board also will assume its duties at the beginning of the 1986-87 school year. 
Mouasher said he will follow basi­cally the same path with Scholastic 

Maher Mouasher 
that the magazine took this year, "... promoting a timely magazine in tune with students' needs." 
One major goal Is to produce the magazine weekly. He explained that the magazine was weekly for l 00 years, until the mld-1970s. 
This change to a more frequent 
have remained conscious long enough to hit himself32 times in the head. 
City police had maintained that Cooley, despondent over a painful form of cancer, battered himself to death with a hammer on April 6, 1985, in the basement darkroom of his home. 
Police said there was no evidence of a struggle and blood spatters around the darkroom indicated no one else was in the room when the hammer blows were delivered. 
But a partial palm print on the hammer, found near the body, did not match Cooley's or anyone as­sociated with him. 
Police Chief Larry Juzwick.i said Wednesday that because of Craw­ford's opinion, the investigation would be reopened and reclassified from suicide to homicide. He refused further comment. 
schedule ofpublication will create a greater challenge, according to Mouasher. But he said he doubts that the challenge will pose any problems because of the com­petency of the new staff. 
One inconvenience Mouasher and his staff will face is the renova· tion of LaFortune Student Center. 
Mouasher said he doesn't believe Scholastic will be affected greatly because It will not have to move un­til the final issue of the year is out. Renovations are scheduled to be completed by next fall when the magazine resumes publication. 
Describing Scholastic as a "general interest publication," Mouasher said areas such as sports, national and local news, and campus happenings will continue to be in­cluded in each issue. He added, however, that the articles will not consist strictly of news coverage. 
"(The articles) will be in focus with students' interests. They will provide an analytical look at and in­sight Into today's important issues," he said. 
But Mayor Calvin Green Jr. defended the police department's finding ofsuicide. "I think our police did a tremendous job," he said. "It was quite thorough." 
Crawford's administrative assis­tant, Richard Kitchell, said state police would continue their inves­tigation. 
Thomas said he was "a little disap· pointed that we can't come up with a perpetrator." 
He said he had suspects, "but due to the fact that 1 am only the coroner . . . I can only go by the cause of death. There are many factors in­volved. It's out of my jurisdiction." 
Cooley's body was discovered by his wife Diane, 52, who was hospi· talized last month after overdosing on tranquilizers following extensive questioning by state police, said her lawyer, Martin Kinney of Merril· lville. 
10 months paid training leading to immediate positions in one of the following: 
-Systems Inventory Management 
Acquisition Contracting. 
-Computer Systems 
-Financial Management 
A starting salary of $19,000 Per year, and up to $32,000 in 4 years with regular promotions and increases. 

BA/BS Degree <or within 12 
months of graduation> 
-B average preferred 
-u. s. Citizen 
-Age limit of 29 
ANavy representative will be on campus APril 9th &lOth. Make an appointment at the Placement Office-or call for additional information, toll-free, at: 
1-800-382-9404 
Navy Officer Programs TAKE CHARGE OF YOUR CAREER. 

The Observer Friday, April 4, 1986 -page 4 




Mideast Marshall Plan being studied by U.S. 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The United States is considering an Israeli proposal for a multi-billion-dollar "Marshall Plan" for the Mideast, State Department spokesman Ber­nard Kalb said Wednesday night. 
Kalb said Israeli Prime Minister Shimon Peres had raised the issue in talks with Secretary of State George Shultz and other administration offi­cials on Tuesday and Wednesday. 
Peres is proposing "the creation of a development fund for various contries in the region" with the aim of creating a better climate for Mideast peace, Kalb said. 
"The multilateral fund would be financed by contributions from various countries and banks," the spokesman said in a telephone inter­view. 
However, he warned that the American interest was preliminary and that there were many potential pitfalls. 
"While we see potential political and financial obstacles to the proposal, we support the overall ob­jective -economic development for peace in the region," Kalb said. 
Kalb declined to say whether the proposal would be brought up at 
Sat. AprilS, 8p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium Students: Only $2.00 GA: $4.00 Tickets on Sale at O'Laughlin Box Office -SMC 
Kaplan LSATPREP... 
BE 

OVER40 

&LOVE IT 
No matter what your age, if you plan on going to law school, a score over 40 can put spring in your step! 
You see, candidates who score between 40 and 48 on the new Law School Admission Test enjoy the best chance ofbeing ac­cepted to the law school oftheir choice and going on to practice with top firms orcorporations. 
At the Stanley H. Kaplan Educational Center. l.Slrr prepa­ration is a fine art. So much so that Kaplan has more "over 405" grads than any other test prep 
firm in the nation. 
I
Isn't that justthe test edge . yourlaw career deserves? 
KAPLAN 
® 

5TANl£Y H. KAPlAN[OUCATIONAl GNTER lTD 
The worlds leading test prep organization. 
Call Days, Evenings, EvenWeekends 
1717 E. South Bend Ave 
South Bend In 46637 (219) 272-4135 
For Information Regarding 
Over 120 Centers OUTSIDE N.Y. STATE CALL TOLL FREt 808-223-1782 preparation for the LSJIJ and CM!f 30 other standarized examination 
next month's Tokyo summit meeting ofindustrialized nations. 
However, The New York Times, quoting administration officials, saiu the project will be discussed in­tensively in coming weeks with allied leaders, and brought up at the summit. 
Israeli officials said the idea had been discussed with Egyptian offi­cials and President Hosni Mubarak had shown interest in it, the Times said in yesterday's editions. 
Peres envisions a $20 billion to $30 billion development fund financed by the United States and major industrialized nations, which he calls a Marshall Plan for the Middle East, the Times said. 
In 1947, Secretary ofState George Marshall proposed the European Recovery Program, which provided direct economic assistance to war­stricken western Europe. It was known as the Marshall Plan. 
The Israelis also have raised the idea with West German officials, and American officials said priority was being given to gain the support of West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl and Japanese leaders, the report said. 
The Nazz Competition 1s com1ng ••• 
On Friday, April 4th you will compete for: 
*CASH PRIZES!
* A position in the Saturday showcase 
P.erformance (April 5th) *A chance to play with MAX WEINBERG 
Friday, April4, 7p. m.-12 North Dining Hall (A-line) Admission FREE Nazz Competition "Winners Night" 


HLDR£1 
Bon Voyage! 

Soviet schoolgirl Katerina Lycheva, left, waves Tuesday afternoon. She is accompanied by her U.S. to friends during a boat ride through the Magical companion Star Rowe, right, of San Francisco. Kingdom at Disneyland Park in Aneheim, Calif., Katerina spent her last day in the United States 
" 
APPhoto 
visiting Disneland. 

The Observer 
Friday, April4, 1986-page 5 




TWA bombing reveals security inadequacies 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON · The bomb that 
tore a hole in the side of a TWA 
Boeing 727, sending four passengers 
plummeting to their deaths, 
demonstrates the weakness of tools 
used to detect explosives at even the 
most security-conscious airports, 
experts say. 
"TWA in that part of the world is complying and fully implementing rather extraordinary security measures," said Richard Lally, the top security expert for the Air Transport Association, on W ednes­day. 
Even so, an explosive device found its way into either the cargo hold or passenger compartment wit· hout detection on the Rome-to· Athens flight. It exploded when the plane was flying at 1 '5,000 feet over southern Greece, hut the plane landed safely at Athens 10 minutes later. 
Lally and other aviation security specialists characterized the Rome airport as among the most security conscious in the world, with officials 

using special precautions on flights 
by U.S. airlines. Security was stepped 
up after last December's terrorist at· 
tack at the airports there and in 
Vienna. 
"The fact ofthe matter is you can­
not make a security system 
foolproof; you can't even get close 
to it," said Capt. Thomas Ashwood, a 
security expert for the Airline Pilots 
Association. 
Before TWA flight 840 departed the Rome airport Wednesday, checked bags were examined with X-rays or were transported directly from another TWA aircraft which had arrived from the United States, according to various experts, who spoke under the condition that they not be identified. 
For the bomb to have been hidden in carry-on luggage "would require a major breakdown in what has been an intensified security net" at the air­port, said Ashwood. He speculated that the explosives; if in the cabin, likely were planted there before the passengers boarded. 
But TWA president Richard Pear­son said such a plant was unlikely since the Boeing 727 was cleaned and prepared for another flight un­der the supervision of security offi­cials after it arrived in Rome from Cairo with an intermediate stop in Athens. 
Nevertheless, on the flight from Rome to Athens, an explosion ripped open the side of the aircraft just forward from the wing, sucking a man, two women and a baby out of the aircraft. Three ofthe bodies, one still strapped to its seat, were found on an abandoned Greek airstrip 120 miles south ofAthens, and the fourth was discovered in the sea nearby. 
A palestinian terrorist group later claimed responsibility. 

BLAST AREA: Between right wing and cargo door 
APGraphlc 

Death 
continuedfrompage 1 
Khadafy were responsible for the blast. 
The four men not in ROTC;asked what they would do if U.S. troops were sent to Ubya but Khadafy were not behind the blast,all said they would not volunteer for service in Ubya but would go if drafted. 
Only one of those four would volunteer ifKhadafy were found to be responsible for the explosion. The other three would still go only ifdrafted. 
All nine of the men interviewed said they had registered for the draft. 
Seven of the nine men, asked 
whether they would be willing to 
die for their country, said they 
would. The other two said they 
weren't sure. 

"I'd say I'd be willing to fight and 
dying is a possible consequence of 
that," said Ratcliffe. "If it's a war 
that you believe in, it's a chance 
you take.;' 

Of the more than 20 students contacted before the jetliner blast, 1::! were familiar enough with the United States' crossing Khadafy's "line of death" to give an opinion on the action. Ofthose 12, ten said they supported it. 
Most who did support the cross· ing of the line cited the United States' right under international law to proceed past that line. 
"Khadafy really has no right to draw that line because he includes within that line international waters, and we have every right to be there," said Mara Smith, a junior in the Program of Uberal Studies. 
Ofthe seven ofthe 12 contacted after the explosion, none had changed their mind about whether they supported the United States' crossing the line. 
"It still appears that crossing the 'line of death' did not increase the chances of terrorism occurring since the threat and acts (of ter­rorism) have been happening periodically anyway," said Schloemer. 
The Associated Press contributed to tbts report. 


ALL CLUBS/ORGANIZATIONS 
FOOTBALL CONCESSION STANDS 
All organizations wishing to have a football concession stand must apply now. Winners and locations are chosen by lottery. 
CLUB REGISTRATION 
AJ..l clubs and organizations must now register with the Student Activities Office for the 1986-87 academic year. 
Forms are now available for: 
1. 
Registration 


2. 
Funding 

3. 
Football Concession Stands 


Pick Up Forms In Student Activities Office 1st Floor Lafortune 
DEADLINE IS -APRIL 18, 1986 
... ,. ...................... ..,.......
~ .... 

-------~----------~------------·-------~­
The Observer 

r 
Bookstore Lineup 
r 
Action began yesterday on tbe courts behind
r 
r 
thP Hammes-Notre Dame Bookstore, when the 


Precautions taken for Bush trip 
As8oclated Press 
WASHINGTON · Vice President George Bush set out yesterday on a trip to the Persian Gulf region, where officials say "prudent" security precautions are in place be­cause of heightened concern for his safety. 
Marlin Fitzwater, the vice presi· dent's press secretary, said there had been no change in Bush's schedule because of the bombing Wednesday ofa TWA jetliner bound for Athens. 
Administration officials say the trip poses greater-than-usual security risks for Bush because of recent threats by Ubya's Moammar Khadafy to strike at Americans in retaliation for U.S. military action 

Latenight Delivery to N.D. and S.M.C. Delicious submarine sandwiches from 
The YeUow Submarine Delivered to your dorm 
Delivery Hours Call Tonight: 272-HIKE 
Friday: 5pm • 2am 
Saturday: 3pm • lam 
Sunday: 4pm-lOpm 
(Yellow Sub) 

Party down tonight and Saturday night with 

DUKETUMATOE 
Notre DaDie Avenue ApartDients 
NOW RENTINGFOilFAIL 
Completely furnished, balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES (good dealsfor Summer Sealon) 
Office at 120 ND Ave 
~7/156-5716. 
Call Aaytlme
I I 

.a nc: VD8CrverI Drew Sandie:£ 
tournament's defending champs Fun Bunch Ftnale played the local version ofAll the President's Men. Basketball fans lined up to see the early tourna­ment action. 
against Ubya in the GulfofSidra. 
After an overnight stop in Frankfurt, West Germany, the vice president will arrive in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, tomorrow, the first stop on a 1 0-day tour that also will take him to Bahrain, Oman and North Yemen. 
He is scheduled to return to Was­hington April 13. 
Four people were killed in the ex­plosion on the TWA jetliner. An anonymous telephone caller in Beirut, claiming to speak for Arab Revolutionary Cells, said the under­ground Palestinian group was responsible for the blast. 
The group is believed linked to Ubya, and the caller told a Western news agency that the bomb was planted on the plane in retaliation 

Friday, April 4, 1986 -page 6 
Astronauts disagree with NASA priorities 
for the U.S. action against Ubya. 
Even before the plane bombing, increased security steps were adopted for the vice president, and officials, speaking on condition they not be identified, said Secret Service agents would be more visible than usual. 
"I think all prudent measures were being taken before this, that we're certainly aware of what Khadafy is saying and that there are other (terrorist) groups out there that are active," said Donald Gregg, the national security adviser to Bush. 
"This incident would confirm that such measures are prudent," he added. 
r------;~g-~;;f;;;,~;ks-s~tt-b~i~--------1 
Benefit Smoker 1 
AprilS, 1986 7:00 PM-12:00 PM South Bend Maennerchor Club 219 Sycamore I 
GAME5-FOOD-PRIZE5-DOOR PRIZES Next to Rink Riverside Printing  I  
Free admission W/ this coupon MUSTBE21  I  

L---------------------------------------1 

ATTENTION MUSICIANS 
Job Openings at $8.00 per hour GUITARIST needed immediately to instruct beginning pupils. Teaching experience not not necessary, but you must know how to read music. CONTEMPORARY/ROCK KEYBOARD INSTRUCTOR NEEDED TO TEACH HIGH SCHOOL LEVEL STUDENTS. Note reading not required. DRUMMER needed to teach high school students. Note reading not required, but preferred. 
Call: GENE'S MUSIC, 288-0121/288·4236 ANYTIMEI 3610 WESTERN AVENUE 

Associated Press 

WASHINGTON · Astronauts, the biggest risk takers in space flight, are taking complaints to the presidential Challenger commission about the shuttle's brakes, survival procedures and the dangers of landing on a three-mile-long concrete runway in Florida. 
The best-known of the witnesses called to the panel's public hearing today was John Young, whose six space flights make him the most ex­perienced American astronaut. He charged recently, in two highly publicized memos, that NASA put "launch schedule pressure" above safety. 
Before that, according to a source close to the commission, Young had voiced concerns about flight safety to Vice President George Bush, who relayed them to the investigating panel. Young and Bush had a space­to-ground conversation during the 
first shuttle flight and met several times at theJohnson Space Center in Houston. 
The source said the astronauts had complained that brakes on the shuttle had been damaged on nearly all 24 landings and that there were no provisions for aborting a flight in the early minutes while the shuttle is climbing toward orbit. 
Only the first four shuttle mis­sions were equipped with an ejec­tion mechanism for the astronauts to be used in case ofan emergency. 
Young also had complained that the runway at the Kennedy Space Center was subject to extensive crosswinds and therefore not as safe as the lakebed at Edwards Air Force Base on the Mojave ·oesert in California. 
The Kennedy runway is 300 feet wide and flanked by alligator­infested swamps, while the desert lakebed allows great room for error in landing. 
The commission, charged with making its report to President Reagan byJune 3, already has started writing it. The source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the report will be in two volumes . one stating the commission's conclu­sions and recommendations, the ot­her supplying technical data. 

Before today's hearing opened, one commissioner said the panel believes even its own independent tests will never show how the Jan. 28 explosion that killed all seven crew members began. But, said the commissioner, Richard Feynman, they should point the way to a safe redesign of the booster rocket. 
"You'll never find out exactly what happened, not to the molecule," said Feynman, a physicist from the California Institute ofTech­nology who has led the panel's in­vestigation into the accident's technical causes. 

PREPARE FOR: 


LSAT 
• 
fESTr< TAPE" LIBRARY 

• 
REINFORCEMENT TeST 

• 
HOME STUD> PACt<E1 


1717 E. South Bend Ave 
South Bend, IN 46637 
(219) 272-4135 
A MUST TO SEE! 
..THE WORLD FAMOUS" WHITE STALLIONS 
of VIENNA 
ONTHEIR "WORLD TOUR" 
MADE FAMOUS BY THE DISNEY MOVIE ''The MiriCII of 
the White St6Jns" t·-·~~ 
'llle ROYAL LIPIZZAN 



STAI.UOIIS 
I........ THE AIRS ABOVE THE GROUND/ 
Tomorrow night, 8:00PM 
All Seats Reserved $9.00 $2.00 Discount -ND/SMC Students/Faculty/staff OnSale at ACC Box Office (9am-Spm) 
THE WORLD'S GREATEST EQUINEEXTRAVAGANZA! 




~i~~~_()__i_ll___t___________________F_rid-~-,A-pr-il4-,1-98_6--pa-ge-7 
Washington Semester offers unique opportunity 
The last time I visited Washington, D.C., I came down to attend an uncle's wedding and see a few sights along the way. So in between visits to relatives, we breezed through the Smithsonian, snapped a few photos in front of the Lincoln Memorial, took a brief tour of Georgetown and piled into our station wagon to head home to Ohio. 
Miriam Hill 
capital people 

Since then, stories in the newspaper, 
pi<:turcs on television and a few miscel­
laneous letters from the IRS have furnished 
the only links between me and Washington ­
until now, that is. Along with 19 other Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary's students, I work and go 
to school in Washington as a participant in 
Notre Dame's Washington Semester program 
at American University. Living in Washington 
ha.o; been an experience in putting real people 
and places behind the faces and names we 
used to read about in the paper or see on 
television. 
The Washington Semester consists of five 
different area<; of study: economics, jour­
nalism, national government, foreign policy 
and justice. Studt·nts select an area of study 
based on their personal interests and goals. 
Each program has three parts: an internship, 
seminars and an elective course or research 
projet·t. Together, these three function to im­
part an integrated picture of some aspect of 
Wa.o;hington such a<; the press or government 
to the student. 
Through the internships, students take 
knowledge from the classroom and apply it to 
real-life situations. By working two days a 
week, students get a glimpse of the everyday 
life of a professional, with all of its challenges 
and problems. Mornings no longer involve 
simply rolling out of bed and heading to cla<;s. 
lnstt·ad, students catch a bus that transports 
them to the local Metro station, where they 
arc whisked off to their jobs in Washington. 
The Mt·tro is an experience in itself. Riding 
through the long, gloomy tunnels of the 
ultramodern Metro can only he compared to 
riding on Disney World's Space Mountain ­
quite a change for anyone used to trudging 
back and forth to O'Shaughnessy all day. 
This semester, people are interning at places as diverse a.<; NBC, the Brookings In­stitution and Senator Ted Kennedy's office. And for most students, internships mean more than stuffing envelopes or walking a senator's dog· as was tht· duty for one intern a few years ago. People come away from their internships with experiences they will never forget. Notre Dame student Maura McKeever, for ex­ample, found herself interviewing senators after President Reagan's State of the Union address. 
Most organizations do not treat students 
who work for them as interns; they treat them 
as they would any other employee. Interns do 

Doonesbury 
their own research, answer constituent mail for congressmen or report stories. Interns do not just stand by and watch, hoping to absorb something by osmosis. 
On the third day ofwork, my internship su· pervisor sent me to cover a congressional hearing on the current crisis in the farm credit system. Upon arriving at the hearing room, I plopped myselfdown at the press table in bet­ween reporters from Time magazine and The Wall Street Journal. Feeling slightly in­timidated, I tried to break the ice by asking the Time reporter wh.ether she thought the hearing would last a long time. After receiving a curt "no" and a nasty look in response to my query, I decided hearing rooms might not be the best place to win friends and influence people. 
Congressmen soon began taking their seats on the dais in front of the room and the hearing was underway. Members of the com­mittee questioned witnesses from the Depart­ment of Agriculture and the Farmer's Home Administration on whether these organiza­tions would continue to give credit to farmers or would instead decrease federal funding for farm loans. The congressmen on the commit· tee, most of whom represented states with a large number offarmers, voiced concern over the increasing occurrence of emotional problems among America's farmers. A representative from North Carolina told the witnesses about a farmer who had committed suicide rather than lose his land to bankers who were calling in loans he could not pos­sibly pay. The concerns of the congressmen were reflected in the eyes of 20 farmers in at­tendance who had struggled to scratch a living from the land. As the congressmen spoke, the farmers nodded and whispered stories among themstlves -about friends who had turned to dru s or other emotional crutches as a means o coping with the burden ofinsurmountable debt. 
The presence ofthe farmers was made even more apparent by the jeans and cowboy hats they wore, which made them stand out against the sea of bankers and government representatives dressed in pin-striped suits. The hearing symbolized the American politi­cal process, with the people and their repre­sentatives working together to search for solutions to the nation's most critical problems. 
In contrast with the internships, seminars provide the student with a theoretical point of view and include speakers, trips and class dis­cussion. In the journalism seminar, we've heard speakers from the Associated Press, the Wall Street journal, the Washington Post, and the Public Broadcasting Service, olmong ot­hers. 
Speakers share their years of experience 
and are eager to answer students' questions 
on everything from how to get a job in jour­
nalism to the First Amendment and the 
liberties it guarantees to the press. 

The program keeps us running; one minute we're on Capitol Hill at the Senate Press Gallery, the next we're watching reporters at the Post react to news that the space shuttle Challenger had exploded. We watched as reporters jumped to get NASA officials on the phone and editors scrambled to find a reporter in New Hampshire who could cover the reaction at the school where Christa McAuliffe taught. 
But not all our time is spent considering lofty political issues or listening to speaker's opinions. The most important asset of the Washington Semester Program is Washington itseU: Any student would be crazy not to take advantage of the many museums, shops, monuments, bars and restaurants it has to of­fer. One could probably spend the entire semester in the Smithsonian alone. The Na­tional Gallery of Art houses some of the world's finest collections. Washington night life has something for everyone, whether it's a play at Kennedy Center or a punk bar in Geor­getown. 
Of course, the Washington Seminar 


P.O. Box Q 
students have knowledge and understanding, not the quest for a 4.0 GPA. The two are not synonymous. 
Robert France jeffLaurenson Notre Dame students 

Government must not give support to gays 
bear Editor: 
Ah, the signs ofspring are everywhere. The snow has slowly receded, students have made travel plans for break and for summer, and as usual, the student government tried to pa<;s still another constitution. 
But this constitution wa<; different from the previous ones. Very different. Two words that it contained transformed it from a possibly workable document to an obscene rag. Article III stated that the student government will not discriminate on account of sex, creed, race, national origin, age or disability. A laudable goal I agree. But it also discourages dis­crimination based on "sexual orientation" (read homosexual perversion). 
Certain things are repugnant by their very nature. Murder, rape, and incest are hut a few loathsome examples. Homosexuality must be included in this roster of the repulsive. Ifour student representatives had any kind of leadership abilities, they would be entbusia<;­tic in their support of morality in government. Instead, though, they have chosen to succomh to the pressure ofa small group. 
john llallissy Fisher Hal/ 

Campus quote 
"I'm glad I'm a Catholic by conviction and not by example." 
Notre Dame staff member 

Education, not grades, should be student goal 
Dear Editor: 

For those within the Notre Dame com­
munity who seem to have lost sight of their 
role as distinguished students, we would like 
to offer our concept ofwhat a university is. 
According to Webster's Dictionary, a uni­
versity is an institution ofhigher learning that 
offers degrees. 
A university is not a degree factory existing 
for the sole purpose offurthering a young man 
or woman's career opportunities. 
According to du Lac, a university is a place 
where learning and scholarship are central. 
All other endeavors flow form this central 
purpose. 

A university is not a competitive environ­
ment where a grade supercedes the inherent 
value ofeducation. 
Unfortunately, the ideals established when Notre Dame was founded in practice are being tossed aside. Cheating on examinations has become common practice for a growing number ofstudents. We hear such rationaliza­tions as: "it's not that big a deal" or "everyone does it." We contend otherwise. It is not only important, but critical that integrity be placed atop our hierarchy of values ifthis university is to accomplish its fundamental objective: to educate. It is time to re-evaluate our reason for being at Notre Dame. We attend contin­gent upon our recognition of the respon­sibilties ofa student. 
Like Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., we have a dream. Our dream is to see the day when all 
Garry Trudeau 
program -like anything else -has its share of 
problems. American University is not Notre 
Dame; there is no Golden Dome or Grotto to 
run to in times of trouble. Students at 
American University are generally indifferent 
to Washington Semester students, perhaps be­
cause we live here for only one semester. The 
friendly, outgoing nature of the people in the 
Washingon Semester program, however, 
more than makes up for the callous attitude of 
some American University students. 
Washington Semester students emerge from the program with a deeper understand­ing of Washington and the federal govern­ment than the one they may have had at home. But more importantly, Washington Semester students get the chance to live and work in the city whose political ideals of freedom and justice symbolize the spirit ofa nation. 
Miriam Ht/1 is a junior in the College of Arts and Letters at Notre Dame and is cur­rently enrolled in the Washington Semester program in Washington, D.C. 
the desire to pursue the 

General Board 
Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief . .................. Joe Murphy Business Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann Managing Editor . ............... Kevin Becker Controller . ................. Alex VonderHaar 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Viewpoint Editor . ............... Scott Bearby Production Manager . ............ Chris Bowler Sports Editor . ............... Dennis Corrigan Photography Manager . ......... James Carroll 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer­Accent Editor . ............, ..... Mary Jacoby Advertising Manager ......... Anne M.Culligan sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the Saint Mary's Editor . ........... Margie Kersten Photography Manager . .......·... Drew Sandler policies of the administration of either institution. The news Is reported as accurately Executive News Editor . ...... : . .... Frank Llpo Systems Manager . .. , ...•. , ... David Thornton and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of News Editor .....................Tripp Baltz Graphic Arts Manager ......... Mark Welmholt the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Editor . .......•...... , . Mark Pankowski their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November3,1968 
Accent 
DOUG ANDERSON and CATHY COFFEY 
features writers 

N 
otre Dame in Israel. No, this is 
not another case ofstudents 

trying to find any geographical 
location out ofreach ofthe long 
arm of DuLac. It is the Notre Dame 
summer archaeological program. 
The summer of 1986 will mark the 
sixth trip by Notre Dame troops to 
Israel. 
The contingent usually consists 
of8 -12 people. Students, faculty, 
parents, and graduates are welcome 
to apply. The group primarily con­
tains theology, history and 
anthropology majors, or students 
interested in archeology. No ex­
perience is necessary, however. 
Last year a government major also 
made the trip. 
The crew this year is lead by Professorjoseph Blenkinsopp ofthe Theology deparment. Notre Dame is joined in the excavation by similar groups from four other schools: Hardin-Simmons College in Texas, Pepperdine University in California, Averett College in Vir­ginia, and the University of British Columbia. 
The "dig" as it is called takes place in the ancient city ofSea of Galilee. This location is Capernaum on the Sea of.Galilee. This location is also well known as the center of jesus' ministry. 
"Part of the reason I went was because it was the Holy Land," said junior theology major Trish O'Connor. "It was really interesting to think that the city was similar to this in jesus' time. jesus could have stood at the very spot where I stood, and swam in the same sea where I swam." 
The swimming, by the way, was more ofa necessity than a luxury with 100 degree temperatures on tht average. The team excavated from 6 a.m. to 1 p.m. to avoid the unbearable afternoon heat. 
"It was so hot and we were so dirty from digging that we went swimming every day," O'Connor said. 
The hard work does produce results, though. In 1983 the ex­cavators discovered over one-haif million dollars worth ofgold coins, believed to be almost 1 SOO years old. Unfortunately for Notre Dame, any products ofthe excavation belong to the Israeli Department of Antiquities, under whose auspices the excavations are carried out. Last year a Roman bathhouse was un­earthed, which apparently dates back to the first century A.D. Granted, this find isn't worth half a million dollars, but it is ofgreater archeological value. 
Senior governmentmajor Ray 
Fronk was fortunate enough to find 
an ancient oil lamp so valuable that 
the Department ofAntiquities con­
fiscated the anifact. 
"Even though I couldn't keep the 
lamp, it was very exciting to find it. 
It contributed to making the trip 
the best summer of my life," Fronk 
said. 

O'Connor also found a large 
potshard, which is a large pottery 
fragment. 
"I saw something sticking out of 
the ground, and after I carefully 
dusted it off, I realized that it was a 
potshard. It was much larger than I 
thought. Not too big, however, 
because they (the Depanment of 
Antiquities) let me keep it." 
f 
r 
~~,;~2&;,­Jt~",• .j, 

,... 
Notre Damestudent Trish O'Connor protects herselffrom the burning sunshine while doing some archeological work­brushing up dirt in a square. 
Unfortunately, these discoveries are not daily events. Many hours, even days, go into the process of uncovering the relics. The work is not as enchanting as it appears. According to Fronk, the chores "involve mostly moving a lot of rocks and dirt. It wasn't glamorous." Added O'Connor, "I spent most of my time carrying buckets ofdirt." 
The living arrangements were also a change ofpace. The ND stu­dents, along with those from the other schools, stayed in a youth hostel in nearby Tiberis. The ar­rangement was coed by room, with six people in a room. Before everyone on campus signs up, O'Connor cautions that the living conditions are not what one would expect in the land of milk and honey. "The cleanliness standards 
weren't quite up to ours," she 
warns." 
The hostel was little more than a place to hang their hats for the students as they were constantly on the move. Plenty ofextracurricular activities were available, including a tour of the Dead Sea area and Jerusalem, archeological lectures conducted by instructors from Notre Dame and other well· established universities, bus rides to neighboring towns, and sight­seeing. 
"On the weekend we went to tours led by five religiously and archeologically affilated professors. It was really interesting because the information was explained well and we knew it was reliable," said O'Connor. 
All of these experiences added up to an experience Fronk called "the best summer of my life." O'Connor agreed, saying "One of the best things for me were the relationships I developed with people that were very different from myseif. I felt that I was doing something that far outweighed any summer job." 
Any Notre Dame student is eligible for the program. According to Blenkinsopp, "Anyone in good health with a sense ofadventure can apply." The cost of the trip is approximately $1700, which in· eludes air fare from Chicago, room and board for five weeks, on site instruction, and the archeological tours. Credits can be earned by taking a class the semester after the dig. O'Connor summed the ex­perience all up saying, "It was the hardest 'easy A' I ever got." 
Enjoy your lunch. 



• 

Friday, April 4, 1986 -page 8 -9 

Real life escape from Oz for sentors• 
gowned ethereally. The rule is: if Snobbery, trickling down slowly, the women don't want to dress up, will eventually reach the middleFather Robert Griffin 
they should stay at home. (It was class. There arc collegiate snob­"Snob" belongs to the sour-grape probably the men who made that beries which have gone on for years vocabulary, they say. Do sour Letters to a Lonely God rule.) among teachers who only drink grapes explain why the New Four 
The original idea ofthe Four Scotch with an expensive label, and Hundcrcd have declared war on the Hundred socialites, the people graduate students who speak of Yuppies? worthy ofbeing invited as guests to television and Notre Dame football, Corey wants to be a gentleman 
I 
just ran into Corey, a senior from tell him with a smile, and make an posh occasions, came about be­and sometimes the Mass, as though free ofsnobbery. Newman wrote "It Madison. His face was tanned and honest Christian out ofhimself. cause 400 was as many people as they were venereal diseases. is almost a definition ofa gentleman peeling from the effects ofthe sun Such humor quickly becomes Mrs. Astor's dance floor could ac­to say he is one who never inflicts
There's the snobbery ofthe wine
shining down from a southern sky. I heavy-handed, because it's not far commodate. pain." In England, they figure it
buffs who show offat dinner with
asked him if he was happy. from the truth. The New Four Hundred are made takes three generations to make a
the kicky vintages from Provence, 
"Gosh, no," he replied, in a way Protestants don't have to change up principally ofEuropeans with gentleman. American standards are
though they know Corey as a visitor 
that let me see his days were full of their denominations to please me. I titles and Americans with old family lower. According to H. L Mcncken, 
couldn't distinguish them from
suffering. "It's the final stretch. I'll would hate to interfere in a matter names. They don't have to be rich, ·:a gentleman is one who never
Mogcn David. Toots Shor used to
be nervous, jumping from one thing ofchoice which is very personal. though their budgets should allow strikes a woman without provoca­
say, "I feel sorry for people who
to another, waiting for time to Yct I would be happy to share my them to buy imported champagne, tion." Mencken, one hopes, was 
don't drink. They know when they
pass." Church with anyone ready to come with 30/ off, If they have the right only having fun. 
wake up in the morning that's the
"Seniors usually find ways of aboard Noah's Ark. God knows that connections. Corey possibly thinks that be­
best they're going to feel all day." As
wa.o;ting their time fruitfully in their Notre Dame has nominal Catholics It helps to be a banker or a lawyer cause he has a tan and an American 
a handy rule of thumb, anybody
last weeks on campus, planning more in need ofchurching than with a business address around Wall Express card, he's ready to start life 
who can say, "Amen" to Toots
parties that are satisfyingly self­Corey, whom I respect as a good Street. Jewish names don't turn up in the fast lane. April is the cruelest
Shor's philosophy isn't merely using
destructive," I said. "Go easy, or young man who's studying the often on the list ofsociety's chosen month as students, wishing to be
his liquor cabinet as a status sym­
you'llleave here suffering from ground on which he stands before people, not because ofanti­the color of mahogany, cover every battle fatigue from kissing girls God. This public hassling, which I Semitism, but because not many bol. inch of the visible grass with their
Some of the middle-class snob­
goodbye at the local bars." hope he doesn't mind, is just a way Jews show the old school colors baking bodies. 
bery is merely self-protective, as 
Corey probably isn't interested in ofspeaking through him to all those from the Eastern academies and the The Seniors should, however,
when smokers meet the fresh-air
taking advice from a priest. I left others who could benefit from the Ivy League. stay awake and sober long enough
fiends who snarl when a cigarette is
him before he started reminding religion which is a campus The facts oflife in the brave new to learn the rules of jungle warfare 
lighted. Any standard, aggressively 
me, "There's a real world waiting specialty. world, I'm sure Corey will be sorry before leaving this Emerald City of
promoted, which makes house­
for me out there." I would have I just finished skimming through to hear, is that he should have Oz. Corey will not know what pain
broken gentlemen and ladies feel 
answered as Thoreau did when they an article, titled "The New Snob­chosen Georgetown over Notre is until he is laughed at by the
uneasy as third-class citizens on the
asked him on his death bed if he bery," which should be required Dame ifhe wants to be counted Junior League for wearing the 
wrong side ofthe truth, from the
was prepared for the next world. reading for Corey and his clas­among the nouveau snobs. He can, wrong shoes to the charity ball.
shabby side ofthe railroad tracks, is 
"One world at a time," Thoreau smates. How many ofthem know however, stop regretting he is not a None of the New Four Hundred
a form ofsnobbery.
told them. that being called a Yuppie is the footbvall player who won the Heis­would be seen swinging around the 
Notre Dame hasn't finished with fatal accusation of the Eighties? man trophy. The New Four Spiritual snobbery, Camus said, dance floor in Thorn MeAns. None Corey yet. His education isn't over, Egalitarianism is out; class con­Hundred doesn't want flash-in-the­makes people feel they can be of them would be caught dead or. and never will be, until he's as smart sciousness is in. Nobody wanting to pans whose crowns ofglory fade happy without money. Moral and the beaches of Fort Lauderdale at as the faculty. I joke with Corey glisten as the genuine article quickly with the years. They don't religious snobs are the worst. They Easter, either. about being one of the token dresses like a slob any more. Among even want film stars like Margaux give themselves away when they I wish Corey luck. His liberal heretics on this flagship of the Pope.• the dinner parties that count, those Hemingway, here today and gone trot the Bible out so that they can education hasn't taught him lie could take a crash course in the of the New Four Hundred, the men tomorrow, with nothing going for nail heretical hides to the wall with everything he needs to know about Catholic religion before he leaves, I wear black ties, and the women are them but the bubble, reputation. chapter and verse. The word the real world waiting for him. 
Injury brings frustration for Dutch 
-

Editor's note: to win it on their own. It's God's will, On Wednesday, the new issue ofSports "The Trojans have remained unbeaten for This is the twenty-first episode in The George," said Rock. Illustrated hit the newsstands. Notre Dame 34 consecutive games," said Ryan O'Connor. "Then, there's nothing you can do?" was featured on the cover. "Even with Dutch, we'd have to play the best
Observer's serial publication ofthe 
"Well, He did say I could make one ofmy The most dreaded curse in college football game ofour lives to beat them."
Notre Dame football story, "The 
patented locker room speeches. But only if I had struck the Fighting Irish. The Sport "That's right," said Shenandoah Lee. "This 
Gipper's Ghost," written by Notre Dame 
have to. Only if it's a real emergency." illustrated jinx! year's tailback, 'Rocket' Crockett, has made 
graduate Robert Quakenbush. 
"No!" It can't be!" the fabled USC power sweep virtually un­"Does this mean I'll be heading back to "Not that! Anything but that!" stoppable. And their AU American linebacker,Purgatory soon?" 
"Not before our last home game!" wailed a 'Raging Bull' Karlson, is a devil in disguise onTheblggame "It means notbing of the sort. That kickoff senior. defense. The newspapers call him 'The you returned for a touchdown against Penn 
The cries ofthe wounded were heard' from · Quarterback Cruncher.' ""What's going on, Rock?" Dutch had State evened up your account in the 
Pangborn Hall to Flanner Tower. Collins was quiet. He was thinking about sought out Rockne as soon as he was Permanent Record. You're going to Heaven, Oh, how the mighty had fallen once visited the five quarterback sacks the Trojanreleased from the hospital. He was wearing a my boy!" 
by the Sports Illustrated Jinx! How many defensive unit, led by 'Raging Bull' Karlson, full leg cast. 
Dutch looked sad. "It might as well be kings ofsport had been dethroned by the had averaged per game this season. 
"Where'd you get the crutches, Dutch?" 
Purgatory." terrible swift lens ofSports IUustratcd's It was a glum, discouraged Notre Darve Father Rock asked. 
· Rock guessed the reason. "It's Nicki, isn't photographers! team that shuftled out ofthe door ofthe "Gift from an admirer. Stop evading the 
dining hall a few minutes later, They turned question. You know as well as I do that it's it?" Local legend told how trusty Tom Cle­south on the sidewalk. At the head of the
"Yeah. I was hoping to patch things up
impossible for a guardian angel to get a ments, one ofNotre Dame's bravest quarter­group, Collins halted · and pointed at Farleybefore we left. Now I guess I'll never get the
broken leg unless it's part ofthe plan. What's backs, had been on the cover of the magazine Hall.
chance."
going on? I mean, after today, we're sure to once, in 1974. The story said he was "he~r to Hanging from the first floor northwesthe ranked third in the country. Next week, a great tradition." The writer had meant a corner hung a white sheet lettered In blue we play Southern Cal. I don't understand, gtteat tradition ofNotre Dame quarterbacks
The Sljlnx and gold. It read:
Rock. The team needs me.!" includedJohnny Lujack, Paul Hornung and "In spite ofanything opponents can do
Joe Thcismann. The students had known At the team meeting Monday night, Dutch better, and feared the worst. Within days, the they can never be Notre Dame. They can 
The Glpper's Gho~ Reagan stood supported by crutches when Irish · the defending national champions -never represent her glory, only try to steal some. They can't upset her tradition or her
he told his teammates to play thier best were upset by the spoilermakers ofPurdue. 
against lJSC on Saturday. His words seemed spirit, only attack them. They can win on the
Chapter 22 & 23 ~ Now, here it was again. The jinx. 
to help the Irish maintain a hard-working football field but not in our hearts, for they
Dutch Reagan was shown on the cover, in can never be Notre Dame: her people, herattitude at practice. gold helmet and white road uniform, streak­traditions, her football, her life.''
ing to a touchdown at Southern Methodist.
"We've done all we were supposed to do, Coach Kelly tried a few tricks to help ease From every dormitory on the North Quad ­The headline said: The Gipper's Ghost? NotreGeorge. We've shown them the way. Break-the tension. He hired a student to wear a Farley, Breen-Phillips, Cavanaugh, Zahm, 
Dame's Holy Terror! 

• ing your leg was the most convincing met­Trojan costume and charge onto the playing Keenan and Stanford · hung banners ofeveryhod God could think ofthe take you out for field aboard a great white stallion on Tuesday Wasn't it bad enough that the Trojans were 
size and description. Go Irish. Sack Troy. Win the rest of the season without arousing afternoon. ranked No. 1 and had yet to suffer defeat? 
one for the Gipper.undue suspicion," Rockne said. Dutch missing. And now this. No wonder
Speculation about the game was at a fever Suddenly, a whistle-blast pierced the air. A 
Dutch Reagan's leg was broken. Sports 
"Without me, the Fighting Irish don't have pitch. Many sportswriters predicted the clatter ofdrumsticks. From a hidden position
Illustrated's presses probably started rolling
a ghost ofa chance against the Trojans. Rock, Irish's miracle season would come to an behind Farley and Breen-Phillips, the Band of
Saturday afternoon and, Snap!, Dutch Reagan
you told us breaking the 1Oth commandment abrupt end on Saturday. By upsetting Penn the Fighting Irish marched into the open.
is out for the season.

is a mortal sin. Surely you don't want great State, the Irish had helped USC solidify its No. And then from behind the other buildings
Coach Kelly could tell his players were
guys like Joe and Hart roasting for eternity in 1 ranking. The Irish had moved up to No. 3, appeared the students ofNotre Dame.
jittery just by watching the practice sessionsHell just because I got a broken leg a.td just a few votes behind LSU. 
the rest of the week.

consequently they lost to USC! There has to To be continued •.• 
Yet, conventional wisdom said: No Dutch The mood was somber in "F" line ofthe
be something you can do." From "T1w ow--sGlooM, • ropJirllllllfNIJ by Room
Reagan, no national championship. North Dining Hall Thurdays night after 
"If the Fighting Irish are going to win the Qlulk•nbush. Publlslwd by o'C'-Publ/$111116 Co.
And just when things couldn't get any practice. The players barely touched theirnational championship, they're going to have 
Roprint«< by ,_,~ss~o~~.
worse, they got worse. steaks. 
_____ _. 
The Observer Friday, April 4, 1986 -page 10 
Sports Briefs 
The Notre Dame golf team's second 
Urut, the blue team, won yesterday's Southwestern Michigan In­vitational at the Hamtshire Country Club, the site of the qualifying rounds for the Western Amatuers. Notre Dame's total score of 307 was the lowest among the 10 teams participating. Western Michigan placed second with a 313 score and Glenn Oaks was third with 31 7. For the Irish, Norm Campbell led the way with an 18-hole score of 75, followed by Doug Giorgio (76), Tom Ryan (77), George Molinsky ( 79) and Tim Hanlon (85 ). The top medalist for the tournament was Bruce Inmace of Huntington College. -The Obser­ver. 
The ND water polo club will host its annu~ 
spring tournament today and tomorrow at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. Teams taking part include Ohio State, Loyola, Iowa State, Purdue, Kenyon and Louisville. Action is slated from 5 to 10 tonight and from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. tomorrow. -The Observer. 
Notre Dame baseball against Wisconsin will be broadcast on WVFI AM-64 this weekend. The games will be aired via tape delay at 8 p.m. Saturday and Sunday nights. On Saturday, Kevin Herbert will be joined by Frank Mastro and Chuck Freeby for the play-by-play, and Sunday night Marty Burns and Brian Broderick will join Herbert to bring you all the action. -The Observer. 
All women varsity and club athletes are 
invited to a banquet onTuesday, AprilS at 7:30p.m. in the University Club. Anyone planning to attend must have notified the office by Monday morning, April 7, and may do so by calling 239-6107. ·The Observer. 
The An Tostal mud volleyball tournament will begin tomorTow. All team captains are reminded to check game times at the SAB office on the second floor ofLafortune. -The Obser­ver. 
-
Classifieds 
NVA fencing and team tennis entries are due April I 1. The fencing tournament will be held April 14 and 1 5 from 6 to 8 p.m. in the ACC fencing gym and is for novice fencers. The team tennis tournament is a single-elimination event to be held April 19. Both tournaments will include men's and women's divisions. For more information call NV A at 2 39-61 00. -The Observer. 
Irish Spring Run entries will be accepted at both dining halls on April 9 and 10 during dinner. For more information call NVA. -The Observer. 
The Michiana Bicycle Association will be sponsoring rides tomorrow and Sunday at 1 p.m. for interested cyclists. For more information call Bill and Debbie Kulwicki at 784­2115 orJack Wiggins at 272-0647. -The Observer. 
The ND rowing club wm hold a meeting concern­ing the election of officers Tuesday, April 8 at 7 p.m. in Nieuwland room 127. All rowers are expected to attend. -The Observer. 
In NBA action last night, Washington defeated New Jersey, 120-108, Chicago edged Indiana, 109-108, Milwaukee downed Cleveland, 114-93, Dallas nipped Denver, 115-114, Hous­ton routed San Antonio, 136-110, and the L.A. Lakers crushed Sacramento, 135-105. -AP 
Inthe NHL lastnight, Boston beat Toronto 4-2, and 
Washington skated past Hartford, 4-2. -AP 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor ofLafortune. Briefs should be submitted on the forms available at the office, and every briefmust include the phone number ofthe person submitting it. -The Observer 
Bookstore 
continued/rom page 16 

slam dunks propelled the Fun Bunch 
to an 11-3 halftime lead. The defend­
ing champions seemed undaunted 
by the flourescent pink clothing of 
Switek and the loud, screeching 
defense of Montanaro. 

The second half saw Switek call 
for a 'Gandhi defense,' where all five 
players laid peacefully on the 
ground as the Fun Bunch tossed in 
an easy bucket. Montanaro managed 
to top this when he yanked down 
Rehder's shorts. Unfortunately for 
Switek/Montanaro, these gags had 
no effect on the Fun Bunch's perfor­
mance. 

As a team, the losers shot a 
miserable 4-for-38, led by Mon­
tanaro's 1-for-14 effort. Van Haitsma, 
John Conway and Art Phillips served 
as the President's Men, but could 
only contribute three baskets to the 
cause. 

For the Fun Bunch, Pat Collins 
scored five times, and Rehder and 
Greg Dingens chipped in four hoops 
apiece. Senior Bryan Dedrick, filling 
in for the absent Rick DiBernardo, 
scored on his only field goal attempt 
of the game. Collins said he was 
pleased with his team's perfor­
mance. 

"We had fun with them, and they 
had fun with us," he said. "We have 
to be ready for every game with the 
possibility of bad weather condi­
tions." 

Collins was referring to the 
Bookstore rule that all games must 
be played regardless of the weather 
conditions. Looking down the road 
for the Fun Bunch, their first real test 
could come from The Redwings, a 
team featuring varsity football 
players Andy Heck, Terry Andrysiak 
and Steve Belles. This matchup 
would not occur until the fourth 
round, however. 

Bookstore Basketball action con­
tinues today and· tqmme:Smw with 
72 preliminary round games. The 
first round begins Sunday, and will 
continue until next Friday. 

"I udt:nl C t'llll'r .u. t cph l I,,,,, fie. uh c. rll'lll).! lr••fll 'I .1 111 1111111 1 p m \lc 11lll.l\ rhrcnrgh I ndJ\ lht· tJIJ.,t·ner '·'"i; \t.1n .. ••lfh t l••c..alt d ,,nih'. tlurd ll•H'r •if ll.tg).!.tr ( olk).!t· ( c.·ntt-r .tc. c. c.-pt' t l.t''lhnl' from I.! ~~~ p m 11111 d ~ p 111 \1••11 dJ\ lhtHI~h l nd.t\ lk.tc.lhrll ltlf Ill "\.I d,l\ t l.i"lflc. d' '' ~pIll \II tl.t''lllc.·d, rnu...tlwpn.:p.tld t"IIIKrlnpt·r'l'll''rll\·111.111 ( h.lf).!t '''''tnll,pcrll\c.·th.lr.ll 
tt:r"' t'f dJ\ 
NOTICES 
Typing Available 287-4082 
TYPING CALL CHillS 
~­
Wordproceaei1'9' Typing 272-8827 
11T IOUIICE NEW CAll IALE APIIIL 11TH, NO ACC 
14POMCHEM4 
11,1100 •LUS11,100 NO ACC APRIL 11TH. 
fltiO.TYN -15 yra. exp. 8tUdent & law 
~-r_.,.,.., m­
dl~ona. 
583S. 
LOST/FOUND I 
MOUT A YAM LOla A WOOIIIII HAIIIIU MID Ita eot' A~ ITIIAP. A 1'1111111MOUelfriTMCK I'IICIIILGIIDOIIIOM._.._.. 
TAIIT. A --11
C'-­
DIIIIP IT tJIIP AT 1M La.r MID I"'UUIDOII-MIIIIIH&L.....S ALM-T. 

LOST: WHITE,SHORT WINTER COAT WITH GREEN PLAID SCARF TWO ID'S AND DETEX AT MR. D'S 3/18.1T'S NOT EVEN MY 10 AND IT'S NOT EVEN REAL CALL CARRIE X3221 
FOUND: Middle-lized 111..:1< umlnlla at the Grano. call Mark al11-46. 
MISSING: LARGE ROUND ROTARY SIGN FROM THE LOWER LEVEL OF THE SAINT MARY'S DINING HALL. PLEASE RETURN-NO QUESTIONS WILL BE ASKED! THIS SIGN IS RE­QUIRED FOR THE ROTARY CLUB MEETINGS. 
FOUND: Ladlea watch outlide O'Shaug,_y Thu..-y, 3-20. call Kevin at '07-()920 lo Identity. 
tia.Piii--i·L:·oe;:·•·uc:K'·A'NO·w 
ITIIPED WATCH IN THE FIIIIT WEEK 01' IIAIICH. IT WM PtiiOU&Y LoeT AROUND THE IIUIINUI .u!LDING, IT. ..CHAEL'I LAUNDIIY 011 CAVANAUGH HALL PUAIE COM­TACT TONY AT 1412. MWAIIDMS IF FOUND. HM GREAT IENTIIIENTAL VALUE, PLEAIE HELPII 
FOR RENT 

EXTRA LARGE 4 BEDROOM HOUSE NEAR CAMPUS. LOTS OF EXTRAS! NEAR BRIDGET'S. $400 A MONTH UN­FURNISHED. WILL FURNISH IF DESIRED. CALL 272-8185 
6 BOAM HOME. NEAR CAMPUS.272­6306 
.......~........................................................ 
FURNISHED HOUSES CLOSE TO NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 28783811 
................................................................ 
SUMMER giveaway: Uve In a lurnlahed hou• in South Bend lor prKIICIIIIy not­hing. c.I28S..5245 
WANTED 

GOVERNMENT JOBS. SI8,040-NII.2301)1'. Now Hlrl•• c.l 1­805-887-8000 Ext. A-11834 lor ~ 
......... 
....................................~ ............................ 
I'm getting married at Sacred Heart June 
14. Am looking lor OJ lor reception. Must have sound system to carry Monogram Room in ACC. From Springsteen to Benny Goodman. Call 313-761-8196 or write 211 S. Revena, Ann Arbor. Ml 48103. Will pay well. 
INTEIINATlONAL STUDENn: Recendy Published, Guide To Greencard From F/J/H Viau. For Free details, send relundable $1 (P&H): Immigration Publicatione, P.O.Box 515991. Dallu, TX 75251. 
NO SPANISH INSTRUCTOR NEEDS REASONABLE ROOM/BOARD NEAR NYU FOR YEAR 8&-87.CALL KEVIN 291-2878. 
HAVE FUN THIS SUMMER! Reaidental Camp in Southweatern Michigan needa counaelora, instructora, unit le-.w and program directora. Call lor information and application•. Muat be 18 yra. or older. Camp Chief Makiubee, 8800 Black Lake Road, Eau Claire, Michigan 4911 1 (616)424-5272. 
RIDE NEEDED TO DETROIT AREA THIS WEEKEND LYNN 4121 
NEED TICKETS TO N.D. COMMENCE­MENT EXERCISES. WILL PAY ($$). CALL BRENT, 2n-0417, EVES. BEFORE 10. 
RESPONSIBLE NO JUNIOR, female, wiN lit with children (or houM), perform houlehold chorea, In return lor room and board.Relerencea available. 283-2762. 
FOR SALE 
MOTORCYCLE FOR SALE 1978 SUZUKI GS550 EXCEL COND 288-4650 
5 8drm Houae. Fuly lumllhacl. M ap­pllancaa & lurnltura Included. GrN1 ln­veatment. Nice Mlgltllortlood. 4 mille from NO. $22,000. call evenings 288­31011 
SELL YOUR CLA88 11001<8 FOR ... 
NID CREDIT! Clll note...,......,._PAN­DORA'S 11001<8 IIS7 South lend Ava. 213-2342 
PERSONALS 
PREGNANT? 
NEED HELP? Call 234-0363. 24-hr. hollirn>, coon.eling & lree pregnancy teata. 
WOMEN'S CARE CENTER 
OAR HOUlE: COLD .EEII & UQUOA. CAJUIY OUT TO 3 A.ll. U.l. 31 N., 1 IILOCK lOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
Dance and Party with LAKE EFFECT at CHEEIIS: Th, Fri. Sat. 
Thank You St. Jude lor all your help' Please continue to help me! 
THANK YOU IT. JUDE. I couldn't heve dona It without your halp. 
Spanish,A-,Paych,98,Comp & Ut,A,Chemistry, 7 ...Thank You,St.Jude!!!!!! 
Ule is double wonderful in Florida. Ute is not wonderful in New York. 
-Kolald 

11T IOUIICE NEW CAll IALE APIIIL 11TH, NO ACC 
14 POIIICHE M4 18,1100 ..LEIS11,100 NO ACC APRIL 11TH 
IIIUURU11,243 IIFIEIIOSt,­11QIUI.ND-AIISI,• 
IIIU-11011,­11 FllllallloStG,III IIIIEIIICUIIIY LYNX ...... ..EICOirr ••• 117 IIOLDICALAIISI,111 IIHORIZON 11,100 ACC APRIL 11TH 
oeuJIVIPIIWU~ 
AMIN ~pick up youra In lhe olllce loday: Clvle Fortin 
ST. PATRICK'S DAY IIUN T-IHIIITI SORRY FOR THE INCONVENIENCE. BUT THE T-SHIRTS CAN BE PICKED UP AT THE SAB OFFICE ON MONDAY, APRIL 7, FROM 3:00 -5:00 P.M. ANY QUESTIONS CALL THE SAB OFFICE AT239-n57. 
TO OUR FAVORITE BABYSITTER: HAVE A GREAT 21ST!! WE WILL FIND YOU AND MAKE SURE YOU CELEBRATE YOUR BIRTHDAY PROPERLY. LOVE, YOUR TAN FRIENDS INWALSH. 
ATTENTION SAINT MARY'S STU­DENTS: II you are interested in being a dey editor lor The Obaerver and have Wedneaclay and Friday afternoons free from 12:30 to 3:00 pi-contact MllfVie Kersten at 284-4425 or 239-5303. This is a paid position at the SMC office at HCC. 
POST SPRING BREAK PARTY /DANCE HOL V CROSS HALL-SMC FRIDAY, APRIL 4: 9PM-2AM-$2 ADMI$­SION OJ-FOOD SHOWOFF YOUR TAN! 
ATTENTION EDUARDO! Sheri R. changed her image at Vail. Miaaion Ac­compliahed! 
DEAR RON, WE LOVE YOU TO DEATH, BUT... LOVE FROM YOUR B.P. CHICKS 
CAVANAUGHHALLPRODUCTlONI 
PRESENTS 
Areenlc end Old LAce A comedy about two old ladiea who are ao kind, they coold ldl you!! Coming April 17, 18, and 19! 
Good Luck at I. WHO, honey! And nocold leet with Phil. Havelevfll' told you... 
KEN and MARY (Goohy) cordially invitee the MBA School and atudenta ol Saint Mary'a to their June wedding at Saa-ed Heert church at 12 midnight. Bring your own booze ... ahould be the party ot a life time. This hu been an April Fooll from 46.211 
There are Olllcial Noire Dame Track and Field T -Shirts and s-t tope lett (vary lew lett). Pleue hurry and purctt.e one 
or aa many u -hiiYa lett. T-8hlr1a ara 18 and s-tTope .,. $15. call Tom at 2»-7634tor morelntonnation ... lhla Ia top CJI8Ity marchlncl8e . 
DO IT ON THE DANCE FLOOR DANCE RELIEF with THE RHYTHM METHODS SAT. NIGHT over 60 DOOR PRIZES DANCE RELIEF: Doorprizea Galore' Including trip to FLORIDA Dinners at 5 reatauranta 7pizzu Nazz Comp. T -Shirts Fighting lriah Hats and More!! DANCE RELIEF-SAT Night All pr~ aid the THIRD WORLD 
G & G Marketing Reaearch Co. wiahea to thank all Domera who participated in our survey. 
SCENES FIIOII LEWIS 2N DOES CONEY ISLAND/D.C. Had a HOB­NOXIOUS time on the slides at the Unc Mem and SMITTVING at the bar· I FEEL FINE. Pam's eyea move at DIFFERENT RATES but we really ahould have read that SUBWAY MAP better' Veal do want a WHALER-NOODLES, anyone? Or how about a JIG with a 65 yr old? We didn't get THIS view of the Monument! Thanx lor comin' out lellow LOSERDOOS! -MOTHER THERESA 
KrOgErlnG aT 2, eGgS aT sUnRISe, HaNd-CrAnKeD iCe CrEaM aT sUnSeT. ZoO tOo. I hEaR yOu. 3883. paul joseph. 
Lanza va. the phone booth CRASH!!!! Lanza:1 Phone booth:O 

QUOTES FIIOII A GREAT WEEK: 1. "OOOH, Daugie!'' 2. "Two Piacea eat each other, or they would lwallow!" 3. "I wanna maka luv!" 4. "Honeet, my name ret/lly ie Bonaparte." 5. "Clem and Larry ­Salt and Pepper wun't that bad, eepe­cially rock aalt!!" 6. "What amazing 1811­control ... I knoo-." 7. "Wh-6 my 
car?!? 8. "Who am I hlttl,.?" 9. "I've never -n ao many chlly women!" 10. "They amel Wke old grandmother's perfume." 11, "Wei, a1ot ot citiea are Mke that."12. "You ain't gotalol upatalra."13. "Debbie doesn't rNIIy Mve in Ft. Lauderdale." 14. "OK, -enth frame ­everybody bowte laft.llanclad'' 15. "SEPARATE YOUIIIELVEIII" 17. "F­k you el." 18. "Dave II a CO,.,Nd. 19. 
"Who'a the Tupld .._,.. 20. "Hay ... Hey ... HEY! 21. "Lal'l hit lhe bealchl" Thanka tor lhe entertaining commente "'-•and along the way-.,....d daa 111, Helll da aile, TllpparundT..._ 



----~---~ 
The Observer Friday, April4, 1986-page 11 
Bookstore Pairings Saint Ma!J's so!tball team _open~ 
..u••,·.o.­ltepen 1 1:45 • You C.n't Uve with Them . v. 5 
1:00 ·Somalimea The Beet Thinge In Ule ... v. Peckagee the Poetman C.n't. Peter DriiQOn a the. 2:30 • Sura She WM 12 But She WM M Good 
1:45 • Ooolliea a AA·Holea v. 5 Guye Who Play M A ... V. Slippery When Wet with the Rock'o Balta 3:15 • 5 Screaming Oamona v. The Fou...ome 
2:30 • Molten Lava a the 4 Hot Rocke v. Emotion· lloollatcln 10 aly Exhauated a Morally . 1:00 • Pr1ma Baal v. Armpit. 
3:15 • Juet Plain While v. We Love the Smell of 1:45 ·Qui llelongv. PenguinainBondllge 
Tuna in the Mormng 2:30 ·What the F v. Short Slow White Guye Who .,_.. 2 Cen'l Jump 
1:00 ·Sorry JR v. The Nobodies 3:15 • P.B.S.R. aT. v. 4 Fruatrated Dlphallea 
1:45 • Or. Nightmare a Nothing Despair v. C.l· with 1 Bowling Ball .. her1nethe Great Meeta 
Ly-11

2:30 • Slamma Tappa Kegga v. Scum Bubbleo 
1:00 • I Don't Uae Your Benz v. 5 Guye With ltepan I F-Mcvea Than tha ... 
3:15 • P.P. a the Nadev. Drop Deed Chriotina S. 
1:00 • Buoh Ooctoro v. Airborn Expreu 1 :45 • M-udlll' v. The Ghurl<a 89 
2:30 • 5 Gophera Who C.n Find a Hole v. We
1:45 · Rlch.,d a the 4 Sldna v. The Double Stuffo 
2:30 • loe Mari)uanaa v. lwry Bird a Friendl Hangleh Saiute Jeff Patera 3:15-Staff lnfactlon Pluo a Virua v. 5 Slamaae 
3:15 • Hinkley Had • Vilion v. Deamond tutu lnmatea rA a Saxual Pr1oon ltepen4 Ly-12 
1:00 ·Team Many M.nooniea v. 4 Geeka & a 1:00 • JFK Uck My Gr.My Balla v. Butt Naked a Bulin-Major the Moon Show 
1:45 · The 5 Athletic Impoetera v. Grace Gunnera 1:45· Dink v. Dick Proaen & the GetFreah Cr­
2:30 • She c.n·t Wrealle But You Should See llookatorw I 
2:30 ·Team No. 352 v. G & the Spot. 
Her Box v. Wedge 
3:15 • We Come In Colon v. Revenge Factor Jim Seith Travelling Team Turna a Cool Br11ze 
1:00 • Nice Body, Shame About the Face v. The 
SObering Advice 
cansavealife 
~ I~
I 620 w w.,h,nqlon Soulh B•nd 234 9077 Rrwrvdllon., o'lvo'lllablf 

season With 3 WinS on FJonda tnp 
By GLORIA ELEUTERI 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's softball team traveled to Florida over spring break, where it opened the season with a 3-l record. 
In Daytona Beach, the Belles faced Bethume Cookman in a twinbill. The Belles came out on top in both games by scores of2-1 and 4-0. 
Saint Mary's took a 2-0 lead in the fifth inning of the first game when centerfielder Amy Cuti and catcher Janine Adamo both singled and came around to score. Bethume Cookman's only run came in the sixth inning. 
Belles' pitcher Cathy Logsdon recorded the win, allowing only one hit while walking four and striking out four. 
"The team came out strong for the first game," said Head Coach Scott Beisel. "They looked as though they had been playing together much longer than a few weeks. It was good to see the team unity developing." 
In the second game, Saint Mary's scoring punch did not emerge until 
620 W •Wa<>hmglon SouTh B{"nd Z34 9077 
RPwrval•on., d\lolll~hl€' 

So you thought Spring Break was overl Well not at Tippecanoe Place. We are extending Spring Break with a special offerfor students. Bring this ad In/ora special price 'Break'. 
$1.00 OFFourfabulous SundayBrunch Good on the following Sundays: 
Apri/6, 13, 20, 27, & May 4. 



the seventh inning. 
Marge Reynolds, who had been hit by a pitch, advanced to second when Trish Tierney bunted for a hit. Both scored when the first baseman did not catch the ball. A sacrifice by Cuti allowed Diane Schroeder to score on the suicide squeeze, making the score 3-0. 
Kris Pantelleria singled and was driven in when Mary Malina grounded out to give the Belles a 4-0 lead. 
The only scoring threat for Bethume Cookman came in the second inning when the Belles' first baseman, Lorri White, had an unas­sisted putout and then returned the ball to pitcher Tammy Shelor. Shelor made a peg to catcher Adamo to stop the run from scoring. 
Shelor allowed only one hit while giving up seven walks and striking out five. 
The Belles played at Bellarmine College when they faced Indiana University in their third game, and won 12-10. 
First inning singles from Tierney, Cuti, Malina and Adamo gave Saint Mary's an early lead. In the second, Cuti tripled and Malina had a home run to stretch the lead to 5-1. 
In the fourth, singles came from the bats of Schroeder, Tierney, Cuti and Adamo to add another run for the Belles. 
Six runs in the fifth allowed Saint Mary's to take the lead again, 12-8. Tierney and Malina singled and Adamo followed with a base hit. 
White contributed six putouts and two assists while teammate Malina had five putouts and four as­sists. Malina was 3-for-3 with five RBI's. Cuti and Tierney each went 3· for-5 with one RBI. Shelor tallied another victory. 
"I think if there had been an out­field fence the score would have been lower," said Beisel. "But the team looked good and I was pleased with the trip. 
In the final game against Bel­lamine, the Belles suJJered their first defeat, 4-l. 
In the fifth inning, Cuti singled, White drove her in with a single, giving Saint Mary's its only run ofthe 
game. 
Logsdon took the loss for Saint Mary's. Good defensive play by White gave her six putouts. And Danch, the third baseman, had two put outs and four assists. 
"The trip went fantastic for the 
team," said Beisel. "Being on the 
road together builds team unity and 
it enables them to work weD toget· 
her both on and offthe field." 
The pitching staff has pleased 
Beisel. They are strengthening and 
developing fundamentals and the 
Improvement Is showing with each 
game. 
"If there has been a pitching 
slump during a game, the defense: 
has come through for us," said 
Beisel. "The desire to come back 
when behind is good for the team. 


r~CS..~~-------w------v.----·~-.-.-..-~------~~-~A~~~CP~·4~P~-··~U9~~·--·~~ 
I 
I 
I Friday, April 4, 1986 -page 12
The Observer 


Seniorjoe Nelligan teamed with Tony Cahill to break trip to Texas. The Irish posteda 5-3 record on form a successful doubles combination for the tbe trip. Rick Rietbrock bas details on page 13. Notre Dame men's tennis team during its spring 
SUMMIIB STOBAGII SPACII 
Special ditcount for BDISMO ttudents 
(5 x 10 spaces and larger) 
CALL 259·0335 to USIBVI SPACE SELF LOCK STORAGE OF MCKIKLEY 816 East Me Kinley Mishawaka 
Security Patrol Checks 
Bookstore Pairings 
StepenS
Y•terdlly'aRMulla 
4:00 ·You May Have the Itch But She. . v. Dikea on
llookatorel 
Fire 

Fun Bunch Finale over Switek/Montanero and the 4:45 • Where'a the Juatice v. Some Stupid Name That Preaident'a Men by 17 Took Houra To Think Of 
5:30 ·Open Loop Shootera v. We Spit Tobacco 

6:15-AnaiVaporav. ChealerGetaMoreSexThan Ua Toclrt'a0.­
Stepen1 llookatorel

4:00-Panic State v. Why? Why? Why? 
4:00-Winnera Buy the Drinka v. Notre Dame 4:45 • The Manhattan Juper Tranafera v. 5 Guya 4:45-Spewed Chunky & the Technocolor. . v. We

Who Couldn't Win the. 
Never Practiced Even Once 5:30 • Oozing Puatuala v. Auau~ and Battery with the 5:30-Under6 Foot, But Over 121ncheav. 4 Gaterun­Intent. 

nera & a Babbling Fool 6:15 • That'almmoral! v. The Morning Stiffiea Reach 6:15-Sona of Thunder v. 5 Guya Under 5-9 Who Can 

N-Helghta 
Slam ... Beera
Stapan2 

4:00 ·The Dining Hal Rata v. We Hate the Wofld 
4:45 • Penia Envy v. We Would Have Called You Back llookatore10 But You Didn't .. 4:00-Blggeat Molda on C.mpua v. Drink Beer. Eat 
5:30 • Ni9htmare on Wayne St. v. He Gan't Do That, Paat, Heave a Donut lt'alllegal! 4:45-The Big 0 Club v. John Quincy -ma & Hia 
6:15 ·The Underdoge v. Quit PuNing My Pijole cabinet Stapen3 5:30-Infinitely Suave and Oh So Forever v. Painful 
4:00 • Uquid Pleuure v. Revenge of the Butt-faced Dilcharge SeaPiga 6:15-4 Labiaa & 4 Other Guyav. Leon KHnghoffer & 
4:45 • Knighta of the Roundball v. Fair Game the PLO Swim Team 5:30· Facet.. Ectopluma from ... v. Tylenol, Chal­lenger & 3 Other . 
Lyona116:15 -The Pat Greene Team v. 5 Guya With Good 4:00 ·Good Newa & Bad News v. Harry Gaah & theMovea But No Penetration South African Buah Wackera 

4:45 ·l.ooae Bowela Defecate on Oildoea v. Products
Stapan4 
of Mutant Sperm 4:00-Men WithoutFutureav. Woody&thePup Tenr. 

5:30-Shower Stal Delivery Boya v. Faction Againat 4:45-We Can't Jump But We'l Slam Your Mamma v. 

Railing Tuition A Forceol5 6:15-Guya Who Want to Know What. v. Scintilat­5:30 • We Need Practice v. Enough Meat to Make ing lnO.Jcernenta . 
Dick Naugtea Proud 

6:15 -Now We Go To School v. Dazed & Confuaed Stepan I Lyona12 
4:00 -BBO Buatera v. The Afterbirth of the Cer· 4:00 -Vlnila Thunder v. Blaidium • Contaminated nivoroua Butterftlea Oiluthlum ery.tala 4:45-Help Me Spock v. Capt Kelleher & the Crazed 4:45 ·Buckwheat Bucltat-. Go To OuagmireviNe v. BuHHoga lnYourButt 
5:30 -It Don't Get No Better Than Thia v. Better Than 5:30 ·Shimmering Holiday Molda & a Yule log v. The 
Hot Patch ' Elgin Expr­6:15-Poor Excuae For a B-Bal Team v. Scrappin' 6:15-4 Devita From.Jeraey&AnAngeiWho .. v. Dr. Yupa Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. 

Summer 
STORAGE 
RESERVATION 683-1959
CALL NOW 

•VERY 
CLOSE TO CAMPUS 

•APPROX 
2V2 MILES NORTH US 31-33 

•GATES 
OPEN ALL DAY SUNDAY 


Master Mini Warehouses 
P.O. BOX 100 NILES. MICHIGAN 49120 
"BEST LITTLE STORE-HOUSE IN MICHIANA" 
located only 5 minutes from Notre Dame, featuring all the luxuries in modern living. 
t wa~hcr dryer in mo~t t dbhwa~hcr t private halcony or patio t ~wimming pool 
t 


The Observer Friday, April 4, 1986 -page 13 
Men's tennis team comes home after 5-3 road trip 
By RICK RIETBROCK 
!.jJOrts Writer 
Notre Dame's tennis team headed south to Texas over spring break to spend some time in the sun and to compete against some quality teams. The team was successful on both ac­counts, as the weather permitted all eight matches to be played and the Irish came back home with a 5· 3 mark for the trip. 
Notre Dame head coach Tom Fal· lon said he was especially pleased with the way his team adapted in its first outdoor match of the season. 
"I'm happy with the way we per· formed on the trip," Fallon said. "We were facing opponents who had been playing outdoors for two months already, and I thought we made the adjustment very well." 
The Irish began the trip with a 5-4 victory over Texas-San Antonio. 
NWIT 
continued/rom page 16 
tournament like this. The team that wins is the team that makes the fewest errors." 
'Jbe season was not over, however. The Irish showed their un­willingness to end their campaign on a losing note as they stormed back to defeat second-seeded Duke for third place. 
Keys scored the first 12 points for the Irish in a game that was never really in question. Notre Dame con· trolled from beginning to end, opening up a 37-32 halftime lead and outshooting the Lady Blue Devils 54 to 39 percent. Botham returned to the lineup and tossed in 
IH points, as did Keys. Bunek added Brian Kalbas scored a 3-6, 6-2, 6-l victory and Tim Carr also won, 6-2, 2-6, 7-6. Tony Cahill tallied the other singles win 6-3,6-2. 
The Irish also scored two doubles victories, with Dave Reiter and Carr winning 7-6, 3-6, 6-l, and the team of joe Nelligan and Cahill scoring a 2-6,6-3,6-1, victory. 
The next foe for Notre Dame was Pan American, and the Irish dropped a tough 5-4 decision in this match. 
Dan Walsh scored a 6-4, 5· 7, 6-2 victory and got suppon from Cahill, who breezed to a 6-I, 6-2 win, and Paul Daggs who triumphed with scores of 2-6, 6-4, 7-6. The Irish managed only one doubles victory though, with Walsh and Daggs win· ning 6-3, 7-5. Fallon pointed to that as the key missing element. 
"It was a very close match and we played decent singles, but we played poor doubles." said Fallon. "We 
1 0 to conclude her best three games in a Notre Dame uniform. 
"Heidi did very well," said DiS­tanislao. "I think it all came together for her. She was finally able to focus o~;~ her individual role in every game and it paid off for her. 
"The Duke game was a big one. Even though it wasn't for the cham­pionship, it was still the first seed against the second seed. Duke was a top-20 team for a good part of the season and it is always good to beat the good teams." 
Chris Moreland scored 25 for Duke and teammate Katie Meier added 17. 
And while the Irish failed in their bid for a post-season title, they con­cluded their best of six seasons as a Division I team, winning the North Star Conference for the second con-
seemed tired and lacked communi­
cation." 

Next the Irish swept to. a 7·2 thrashing ofan outmanned St. Mary's University squad. Kalbas, Carr, Cahill, Reiter, and Daggs scored con­vincing victories in singles while the doubles combinations of Carr and Reiter, and Cahill and Nelligan also won handily. 
The Irish ran into a brick wall against a Rice University team that dealt the Irish a 7-2 beating. Reiter (6-l, 6-4 )and Daggs (6-4, 6-4 )were the lone singles victors, but the Irish could not get a victory in doubles. Fallon gave credit to the victors in explaining the wide margin of vic­tory. 
"Rice was real strong and very talented," he said. "They basically just overpowered us." 
The Irish then defeated Southwest Texas 5·4 in what Fallon termed "the biggest victory of the trip" be· 
secutive year and finishing third m theirfirst chance at post-season play. 
"I'm pleased with the way the season ended," said DiStanislao. "I think we opened a few eyes and that's important. Now we've got to build on this. 
IRISH ITEMS · DiStanislao and her assistants are working on next year's squad already as they have been recruiting since the tourna­ment's conclusion. She has signed the top players from Wisconson in each of the last two years · Sandy Botham and Heidi Bunek · and is trying to make it three years in a row. julie Garske, a 5-10 guard, is considered the best prep player in the state by many people, and will be visiting the Notre Dame campus this weekend. 
CAt~f'US INTERVIEWS WILL BE SCHEDULE[) 
FOR APRIL 10th and 11th.  
CALL  THE  CAREER  AND  
PLACEI~ENT  SERVICES  AT  
TIRE  239-5200.  
AMERICA.  
WE ARE MORE THAN TIRES.  


Welcome to the world of TIRE AMERICA, an exciting com­
pany with unlimited opportunities. 
At TIRE AMERICA, we consider our organization more than just a rapidly expanding chain of retail stores. It is a fine tuned corporation coordinating the efforts of top-notch people in the fields of: Advertising, Finance, Operations, Purchasing, Human Resources, Sales and Warehousing. These professionals are working towards a common goal: To make TIRE AMERICA the dominant force in the retail tire market. 
TAKE THE FIRST STEP TO YOUR FUTURE WITH TIRE AMERICA!! 
hind some strong performances. The most inspired performance of the match came from Carr said Fal· Ion. 
"Tim was heavily recruited by the coach at Southwest Texas coming out ofhigh school," he said. "He won in singles (6-1,6-4) and also in doubles (7-5,7-6 with Reiter). It has to be especially sweet for him to have performed well and to have beaten them in the match." 
The Irish lost a tough 5·4 decision to Baylor in their next match. Walsh, Reiter and the doubles teams ofCarr and Reiter, and Cahill and Nelligan were winners. Notre Dame very nearly could have won the match but Daggs lost a heartbreaker by 6-7, 7-5, 6-7 scores. 
St. Edwards ofTexas was the next opponent and the Irish won an easy 7-2 victory behind a sweep in the doubles competition and singles vic­tories by Carr, Cahill, Reiter, and Grier. 
The St. Edwards team featured four foreign players, but the interna· tional flavor did not help enough to offset another strong Irish perfor­mance. 
Notre Dame finished the trip with a 9-0 victory over Texas Lutheran, who was missing one of its starters, but nonetheless was an over­matched team. 
Reiter finished the trip with a 6-2 record to top the club and also had some incentive of his own, accord­ing to Fallon. 
"He's a Texas native and his 
girlfriend watched several 
matches,"he said. "That really does 
something for a young man's perfor­
mance." 
The Carr-Reiter and Nelligan· 
Cahill teams posted 6-2 and 5-2 
records respectively to top the 
doubles performances. 
Fallon is optimistic concerning 
the remainder ofthe season after the 
spring trip. 
"I'm hoping the sun and the trip puts in good frame of mind for the rest of the season," he said. "We got used to playing outside and we've been playing pretty well, I hope we're match-tough now. 
"From now on there are no more alibis for us. We just have to go out and win the matches." 
Fallon's troops will get a chance to do just that today when they face Toledo. The coach expects today's match to be a close one. 
"Toledo's usually in the middle of the Mid-American Conference," he said. "They should give us a good test." 
Fallon said that he expects Nel­ligan to return to singles play after missing action because of a knee in· jury. Daggs will probably be limited to strictly doubles duty because of an arm and shoulder injury that caused him to miss some action during the past trip. 
Game time today is 3:00 p.m. at the Counney Tennis Courts. 
Win a trip to 

FLORIDA 
courtesy of Seven Seas Travel 
Dance Relief 
with the 
llHYTHYMMETHODS 
N.D.'s favorite dance band 
April 5th 9pm -lam $3 Admission includes South Dining Hall dancing, pizza, snacks & 
chance for prizes Sponsored by the Overseas 
All proceeds aid Development 
Third World development Network 
$500 In door prizes given away. 
Prizes include Florida trip; meals from Lee's Ribs, Han's Haus, Eddies, The Morris Inn, and MORE! 
One prize given away every 10 minutes! 
.----------------------------­
1 I 
52929u.s.31 f'lorth o......, ................................. 
With this coupon receive a 
Large Pizza for Medium Pizza Price Medium Pizza for Small Pizza Price 
(Delivery Orders Only) 
After S pm on Fri.-Sat. Only 
(Limited Delivery Area) 
277-5880 expires: Aprill2 
~----------------------------~ 
.. 

The Observer Friday, April4, 1986-page 14 
Baseball team rallied after 0-7 slide 
By TERRY LYNCH 
Sports Writer 
Errors and a lack of clutch hitting during the Notre Dame baseball team's spring break excursion to California cost the Irish seven games in the prestigious California­Riverside Invitational. 
But while the Irish departed win­less from the tournament and suffered a setback in their quest for respectability on the national baseball scene, Irish coach Larry Gallo remained optimistic. 
"By no means were the teams we played out there superhuman," said Gallo of his team's 0-7 performance in California. "It's not like we didn't have a chance. We had some excel­lent competition; the premier com­petition in the nation. I have no excuse: at all." 
Gallo and company might as well have packed their ba~ and left if they had known thin~ were only going to get worse: after the first game against Washington. The Irish and the Huskies battled in a close: game that was 7-4 as late as the eighth inning. The relief pitching didn't come through for the Irish, however, and the final score of 10-4 is not indicative of the quality ofthe contest. The Irish put in a valiant ef­fon at the plate against the Huskies' 
Correction 
Because ofan editing error, the headline on yesterday's women's fencing story was mistated. The team finished second in the NCAA championships. 


top pitcher, a Canadian olympian. 
Men left on base, which was a statis­
tic that would hound Notre Dame 
for the rest of the tournament, hin­
dered the Irish offensive effon. 
California-Riverside was the next 
game on the slate, but the Irish were 
swamped by the host team and 
could not get anything going of­
fensively in a 13-2 loss. 
The one game that would serve to 
symbolize Irish frustrations in 
California was the Oregon State con­
test. Oregon State, last year's tourna­
ment champion, benefitted from 12 
stranded Irish baserunners. 
Wasted in that debacle was an ex­
cellent pitching performance by 
Mark Watzke, who suffered only one 
bad inning in which Oregon St. 
scored all four ofits runs. Adding in­
sult to injury were the facts that the 
Irish outhit Oregon 12-7 and 
stranded nine of the 12 runners in 
the last four innings. 
The Irish awoke the next day only to face Tulane, who left the tourna­ment with a 26-4 record and as one of the top-ranked teams in the country. Kenny Soos blasted a home run in the bottom of the first to put the Irish on top, 1-0, but it was there that the hard luck resumed. The Irish defense collapsed, allowing a runner to score from second base on a wild pitch, botching a steal attempt when nobody covered second base, and walking four men in the inning. When the dust had settled, including the dust from a three-run homer in the seventh for Tulane, the Irish found themselves down, 8-2. 
But the Irish mounted a com­eback in the bottom of the seventh that saw them put four runs on the board, and even that rally was tar­msned by a baserunning mistake. 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following 
positions: Viewpoint Copy 
Editor 
Questions about this position should be directed to Scott Bearby. Personal statements and resumes are due Monday, April 7 by5:00PM. 
SPRING'S A-POPPIN,
AT 

ironwood liquors 
1725 NORTH IRONWOOD DRIVE SOUTH BEND. INDIANA 46635 

TRINKETS AND TREASURE 
TRINKETS  AND TREASURE  
TRINKETS  AND TREASURE  
TRINKETS  AND TREASURE  

SALE SALE SALE SALE 


Eventually, those mistakes were too much for the Irish, and the game ended in an 8-6 score by vinue of the tournament's time-limit rule. Again the Irish outhit their op­ponents, this time 10-7. But the pitching effort was spotty and incon­sistent, with Irish pitchers combin­ing for 13 walks. 
Wisconsin was the next day's project at California, but again the Irish defense was erratic, giving up a host of errors in another winnable but time-limited contest, which Wis­consin won, 11-9. 
Brigham Young, another of the nationally-ranked teams in the tournament, was the second team to completely smash the Irish. The BYU pitcher worked on a no-hitter until the ninth, when the Irish managed three hits in a 10-0 blowout. The Irish struck out a tournament record 20 times against BYU. Kevin Chenail had a 4-hitter going into the seventh, but three three-run homers in the last two in­nings blew the game open. 
Cornell, the last of the tourna­ment competion, also benefitted from some lackadaisical fielding by the Irish, and once again the Irish turned a fine pitching effort, this one from senior Steve Powell, into a dis­appointing loss, 4-3. 
"We're very frustrated and disap­pointed," said Gallo in reference to the tournament. "We just did not play well. We have a long way to go yet in the season, and my primary concern really is how the kids play at the end of the season, and not the beginning." 
The Irish have since returned to a four-game winning streak, with' an 8-4 victory over Chicago State on Tuesday, a 5-0 win against Val­paraiso Wednesday, and a doubleheader sweep of Bethel yes­terday, 6-4, 7-5. Next for the Irish is a demanding four game set this weekend against Wisconsin. The two doubleheaders will begin at 1 
p.m. at Jake Kline Field Saturday and Sunday. 
"We're a very, very tired team," said Gallo. "We came back with a goal to win four games before Wis­consin, and we've done that. They (Wisconsin) saw us play seven games out there and probably weren't very impressed. But I think they realized that we're a better team than that, and that we had a lot ofbad luck." 
On the injury front, the Irish are not faring well. Rich Vanthournout and Kenny Soos are among a crew of the Irish who are playing hurt. However, some good news to report is the possibility of co-captain Tom Shields returning to the Irish lineup. 

Come to Mr. D~ Saturday Night 
for AFTERSPRING BREAKBASH 
$3 pitchers cso Kamlkazls Drawing all night for hats. t-shlrts. and drinks I 

Support
March of Dimes 
·>~~~~~'~"'~: 
ENGINEERING WEEK 
Treasure Hunt Clues: 
1. To determine where the 
certificate will be, just search near a hidden ND. 
2. Do not look where YClU should not go, but don't let 
that stop you from looking high and low. 
3. The tears flow near where the gods do weep, and by 
the prize, botanical fingers creep. 
4. Look with your hands, not with your sight; the prize 
is attached at four cubits of height. 
Whenfound. follow directions on certificate. 
prize: HP 11-c Calculator 
.,,~,~~>.cle(~·' 


Earn Over $1000 A Month While Still In School! 
It's Part of the NavY's Nuclear ProPulsion Officer Candidate Program. And the money you can earn while still in school is just the beginning! 
After graduation, you will receive graduate level training valued at $30,000 and begin work as a technical manager with immediate authoritY and responsibilitY. This is the only Program of its kind in the world. 
To qualify you must be between the ages of nineteen and twentY-six, be in good health and meet stringent academic requirements. 
A Navy·Engineering Programs Specialist 
will be on campus Apri 1 9 R. 10, 1986 
For more information call toll-free 1-800-382-9404~ Mon-Wed~ 8:30am-2Pm. 
------Lead the Adventure------­

~c:tcJlC3L~-------·-------------------------------F-ri-da•y~,A~p-rl_"l~4,_1_98_6_-~p~ag~e-1~5 
Bloom County 1HE 1411/Rt?EN 10W ~ )0(/ 1l?EI7 10 STTCK YOCII( 7ClM!JU€ /tmJ II tJ6HT SUC~<er liN() CI»/Mtr 51/ICICle 11115 MORNIN6.­/  
Zeto  
I -:Jvi.J~N 'T Jo5T STAND Tf-IE"RE' :wr; L.ET 1-/IM THIN IT ,,IA5 1'171!  I SIMPL'f TOLD J-1/M THE NAKED TRUTH.  
mewH115 NO 



ACROSS 1 Vegetable dish 5 Adversary 
10 Dimension 14 Piggery sound 15 Anoint old 
style 16 Extraordinary 
thing 17 Ground laurel 20 Defeat in 
bridge 21 Oriental 22 Ragged 23 Once -a time 24 Norma or 
Charlotte 25 Yellow-
flowered herb 33 "Quo-" 34 Purposes 35 Plump 36 Otherwise 37 Aromatic 
plants 39 Outline 40 Strong-scented 
herb 41 Gael 42 Brown thrush 43 Perennial herb 47 Away 48 High nest: var. 49 Happen 52 Fine 54 Baseball stat. 57 State flowers 
of Pa. and 
Conn. 60 Shake -1 61 Combination 62 Israeli king 63 Scratch out 64 Understands 65 Large plant 
DOWN 1 Utensils 2 Ireland 3 Med. subj. 4 Schuss 5-d'etre 6 Baseball term 7 Star In Lyra 8 Hale or Ladd 9 Celtic sea god 
10 More tart 
qgae Tnbune Media Services. Inc. All A1ghls Reserved 

Thursday's Solution 
11 Division word 12 Ruler of gods 13 Scottish 
Gaelic 18-lazuli 19 Rays 23 Unicorn fish 24 Flanges 25 Each 26 Worth 27 A Ford 28 Architectural 
design 29 Free 30 Frequently 31-bleul 32 Antiknock 

fluid 37 Eft 38 Mountain 39 Uncanny 46 Certain nuta 53 Fresh-water 41 Yard 49-Bradley mussel 42 Objeta 50 Fountain 54 Raise 
d'art: var. drink 55 Melancholy 44 Loll 51 Actor's linea 56 Alt 45 Herb with 52 Neighbor of 58 Diving bird 
angular leave• Wtac. 59 Alphabet run 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
© 1986 Un1versal Press 

11PI'KU/11170N fF 711(; LOGIC IN 111€ IIMCRICIW J{/{1/C/11{. 
5Y:JT£M... 
/ 

Kevin Walsh 
Campus 
FRIDAY, APRIL 4 
•12 
P.M.. Lecture, "U.S. and Church Involve­ment in Central America," Father William M. Lewers, Offic!! of International Justice and Peace., Room I 0 I Law School, Sponsored by the Law School Social Justice Forum 

•3 
P.M. · Tennis, Notre Dame vs. Toledo, Courtney Courts 

•4:30 
P.M. · Lecture, "Applications of Picosecond Methods in Condensed Matter Dynamics, Including Biological Systems," Prof. Robin Hochstrasser, Room I 23 Nieuwland, Sponsored by the Reilly Chemistry Lecture 

•6:30 
P.M. · Meeting and Party, Ichthus Christian Fellowship Meeting, Pasquerilla West Chapel Lounge 

•7 
& 10 P.M.· Movie, "Amadeus," Engineer­ing Auditorium, Sponsored by SAB, S1.50 

•7:30 
& 9:30 P.M. · Movie, "Zelig," Annen­berg Auditorium, Sponsored by the Friday Night Film Series 

•8 
P.M. -Play, "Chicago City Umits," O'L.aughlin Auditorium, Sponsored by Saint Mary's Student Government 


SATURDAY, APRIL 5 
•8 A.M.. MockMCAT, Room 127 Nieuwland, 

•10 
A.M.· Tennis, Saint Mary's vs. University ofToledo, Angela Athletic Facility 

•11 
A.M. ·Tennis, Notre Dame Women vs. Michigan State, Courtney Courts 

•I 
P.M.· Tennis, Notre Dam~ Men vs. Wes­tern Michigan, Courtney Courts 

•1 
P.M.· Baseball, Notre Dame vs. Wisconsin, Jake Kline Field 

•1:30 
P.M.· Ordinations, Holy Cross Pries­thood Or3inations, Sacred Heart Church 

•1:3· 
P.M. · Lacrosse, Notre Dame vs. Wooster, Cartier Field 

•7 
& IO P.M.-Movie, "Amadeus," Engineer­ing Auditorium, Sponsored by SAB, $1.50 


SUNDAY, APRIL 6 
•1 
l A.M. · Spanish Mass, Father Plaskar, Far­ley Hall 

•I 
I A.M. · Tennis, Notre Dame Men vs. Wisconsin, Courtney Courts 

•12 
P.M. -Tennis, Notre Dame Women vs. Eastern Michigan, Courtney Courts 

•7:30 
P.M.· Meeting, "Pathways to Peace and Understanding," Panel of International ~tu­dents, Ubrary Lounge, Sponsored by the Overseas Development Network 

•8 
P.M. -Concert, St. Olaf Chapel Choir, Sacred Heart Church, Sponsored by the Music Dept. 


Dinner Menus 

Notre Dame Breaded Pork Chop Fettucini Alfredo Baked Haddock with Sesame Chicken and Vegetable Pita 
Saint Mary's Pork Cutlet with Country Cream Gravy Shrimp Vegetable Oriental Zucchini and Mushroom Crepes Chinese Pepper Beef 

SPONSOREp BY: THE STUDENT ACI'IVITIES BOARD 
Amadeus 



7:00, lO:OOpm Friday, April 4th, Saturday ,April 5th 
Please, no food or drinks in Auditorium 
.. 


Irish rebounded from tough loss in women's NIT 
I 

By MARlY STRASEN "I was proud ofthe way we shook Sandy Botham's 22 points and a 19-the lead to 59-54 and a free throw free throws to clinch the two-point Assistant Sports Editor off the loss to Idaho and con­point effort by senior standout from ·5-1 1 Lavetta Willis brought the victory. Idaho went on to defeat centrated on the next task at hand," Trena Keys. Notre Dame never Irish to within four. Keys followed Northwestern (La.) to win the 
With the season almost over and said Irish head coach Mary DiStanis­trailed in the opening-round victory with a pair of buckets, including the tournament. all chances ofa title in the Women's lao. "There aren't many teams who and headed into the semifinal with tying basket on a baseline jumper "Post-season play is a different ex­National Invitational Tournament JSet the chance to finish a season on a momentum. with 11 seconds to play. perience," said Distanislao. "It's a gone, it would have been easy for winning note in post-season play Then the lights went out. Notre Dame continued to hold very fortunate team that goes the Notre Dame women's basketball and we really wanted to do just A lackluster effort in the first half Idaho scoreless as a pair of Keys' through its first post-season ex· team to throw in the towel. that." gave Idaho a 20-18 lead, with 6-4 field goals and free throws by Willis perience without a mistake. It's a 
Not a chance. freshman Heidi Bunek scoring 10 of and Mary Gavin put the Irish on top matter of consistency and, as has 
The Irish came back from a bitter But it is all too easy to think about Notre Dame's 18 points. Bunek saw by a 65-59 score in overtime. But happened to us in the past, we made overtime defeat at the hands of what could have happened were it 42 minutes and scored 24 points in Idaho's Mary Raese, who finished a couple of critical mistakes down Idaho in the tournament's semifinal not for some last-minute heroics by the contest, carrying the extra load the game with 24 points, scored the stretch against Idaho that really round to defeat Duke, 74-67, for Idaho in the semifinal, as it sent as Botham became ill. eight in the last 31 seconds to rally cost us. third place. All thin~ considered, Notre Dame to the third-place game With 2:30 to play in the contest her team from behind. Four ofthose "I definitely think (we were the the trek to Amarillo, Tex., over with a 67-65 overtime win. and the Irish trailing 59-50, the tide points followed Notre Dame tur· best team), but that's the nature of a spring break was not a complete dis­The top-seeded Irish cruised past began to turn in Notre Dame's favor. novers late in the game. Her final appointment. U.S. International, 86-61, on 6-2 Bunek hit a pair of field goals to cut two came on a pair of last-second see NWIT, page 13 
Women's tennis team played well, posted 3-1 mark in Lavers Tourney 
By KATHLEEN McKERNAN competition with Notre Dame Panther in the first flight had the Sports Writer leading 4-2. task oftaking on 15th-ranked Wendy In the number-one doubles, Ten­Wood. Wood defeated her 6-2, 5-7, 
During spring break in not-so­nessee's team of Brimmen-Dunkle 6-3, but Gelfman was pleased with sunny Delray Beach, Fla., the came back to defeat Panther-Dasso Panther's performance. women's tennis team shined against 6-1, 6-2. Notre Dame's number-two "She took her all three sets," tough competition in the Lavers In­team of Colligan-O'Brien clinched Gelfman noted. "It was the best vitational Tournament. The Irish an Irish victory with a close 7-6, (7-match Susie played. It was really finished with a 3-1 record in the 4) 6-2 win against Kreis­windy -a tough match. Susie took tournament, losing only to local Cherichella. her to a break (in the second set)." rival Illinois-Chicago. Notre Dame's scheduled match Panther, who sports a 7-5 record 
with ei8)uh-ranked Miami was can­in the spring season, has a greater"We did very well," Irish coach celled because of Wednesday's rain, challenge leading off the matchesMichele Gelfman said. "But the rain and on Thursday the team was than the lower position players; it iswas just ridiculous. They had no in­granted an off-day. Panther who gets to face the verydoor facilities so we were rained-out Play resumed Friday with a tough best players such as Wood.
against Miami. On Saturday the 5-4 loss to Illinois-Chicago. The Irish games took 10 hours. We were out 

"When you play in the number­
had lost by the same score duringthere from eight in the morning un­
one position, the matches can go eit­til six that night." 
the spring season, so Gelfman said 
her way," Gelfman explained. "The 
Monday's matches over Denison around. number-one (seed) always has the were practically a warm-up for the "Illinois has really been a monkey worst record on the team. That's be­rest of the week's competition. The on my back this season," she said. cause of that higher level of compe­Irish swept, 9-0, in the first dayofthe "We've gotten better as a team, but tition." tournament. Illinois brought in a new .girl and she was hoping for a win this time 
Today the Irish will begin a
On Tuesday, the real challenge changed the lineup around. We 
three-day homestand, playing three
began as Notre Dame took on last probably could have beaten their 
matches over the weekend. Compe­
year's Division II national cham­old lineup. Those things happen, 
tition starts tomorrow against
pions, Tennessee-Chattanooga. however." 
Toledo, who should not pose great
First-and second-flight players Susie. On Saturday, Notre Dame pulled 
problems for the Irish. Tomorrow,
Panther and Mary Colligan started out an impressive 5-4 victory against 
Michigan State comes to town, and
offfor the Irish with quick wins over Rice. Coming up with wins for the 
Sunday a tough Eastern Michigan
Sherri Brimmen and Dede Dunkle. Irish were Colligan,' Dasso, O'Brien, 
team will challenge the 9-3 Irish.
Michelle Dasso followed with a loss and Biafore. to Angy Kreis 6-2, 6-4, and Tennes­Dasso's match with Lori Crenk "Eastern Michigan is going to be 
1M Obllcrver/Drew Sandler
see's Sabrina Cherichella defeated had some interesting sidelights. She tough," Gelfman said. "It will be a Izzy O'Brien 6-3, 6-3. The fourth­first faced Crenk when she was 12 strong team straight down the line. Irish seniorTrena Keys, shown here defending Tennessee's Sherry and fifth-flight players, joAnne years old in a tournament in their Michigan is also strong. Brutic in earlier-season action, was a keyplayeras the Notre Dame Biafore and Tammy Schmidt, California district. Dasso bad never "After pullingoffa match against a women's basketball team took thirdplace in the NWIT overspring
defeated Tennessee's Tracy 

lost a set to Crenk, and she con­team like Rice, I think they can beat break. The Irish beat U.S. International, fell to Idaho, and then 
Chapclla and M.L Coughlin, wins tinued that domination in the anyone. They should be very good came back to beat Duke in tournament play. Marty Strasen bas which ended the sinRles pan of the tournament, winning 6-3, 6-4. matches." details above . 

lb~ Obllcrvcr/llm CarroU 
Seorts 
Student body vice president Dan Montanaro rides to courtside on a couch carried by his sup­porters before yestertt,ay's a11nual Bookstore Hall of 
Friday, April4, 1986-page 16 
Bookstore XV opens 1with 21-4 Hall of Fame victory for Fun Bunch 
By MIKE CARDINALE 
Sports Writer 

Bookstore Basketball XV began with a bang and a chuckle yesterday evening as Steve Treacy led last year's champions, Fun Bunch Finale, to a 21-4 drubbing of Switek/Montanaro and the Presi­dent's Men in the annual Hall of Fame Game. Treacy, last year's Tournament MVP, shot 7-of-8 from the field and pulled down seven rebounds. 
His performance was upstaged, however, by the antics of the Switek/Montanaro team, who thrilled the crowd with numerous gags and abysmal play. Arriving on a couch carried by their entourage, the student body president and vice
Fame game. Fun Bunch Finale defeated 
president showered the crowd with
Switek/Montanaro and the President's Men, 21-4. 
crayons. The team was also accom­
Mike Cardinale has details at right. 
panied by a secret service security force, who doubled as D)'s to provide music for the game. 
Things started well for the Switek/Montanaro team as they won the coin toss and immediately scored the game's first basket on a 
Bookstore Basketball XV 
rebound goal by one of the Presi­dent's Men, junior Dan Van Haitsma. Following the basket, Switek sup­porters tossed Old Milwaukee beer cans, a trademark ofthe new regime, onto the court. 
Their success was short-lived, however, as Tom Rehder's three 
see BOOKSTORE, page 10 

.. 








