--~~~--­
Nazz-page 7 
VOL. XX, NO. 120 MONDAY, APRIL 7, 1986 an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

toppled the 400-pound sculpture located in front of tlie art building. Story at right. 

Weinberger makes Philippine visit 
U.S. embassy spokesman Allan the retirement of many top military Croghan declined to say whether officer~. Some U.S. officials said a 
MANILA, Philippines Weinberger will discuss a defense shakeup in the 250,000-member Defense Secretary Casper aid package for the Philippines or a military would help Manila combat Weinberger, yesterday, became the recent strike in which Filipion a communist insurgency. first U.S. cabinet official to visit workers barricaded the gates of the the Philippines since President Cor­largest U.S. military outposts Since Marcos' ouster the Reagan azon Aquino and rebellious overseas. 
administration has appealed to military officers ousted Ferdinand However, Croghan said the em­
Congress for an increase in the Marcos. bassy has welcomed Aquino's ef­$100 million in military assistance 
Defense Minister Juan Ponce forts ·to reform the Philippine and $228.5 million in economic Enrile and armed forces chief Gen. military into a "force that is profes­assistance approved for the Philip­Fidel Ramos welcomed Weinberger sional -with professional ethics, pines in 1987. at the Old Manila International good leadership and properly sup­Airport at the start of his two-day plied and trained." Assistant Defense Secretary visit. Last Tuesday, Aquino dismissed Richard Armitage said in 
Enrile and Ramos led a military 39 generals and colonels in her first Washington last week, "There is a revolt that helped drive Marcos major move to reform a defense very high likelihood that we would from the presidential palace and force allegedly guilty of widespread be increasing in an appropriate way end his 20 years in power on Feb. corruption and human rights the amount of security assistance" 
25. Marcos left the Philippines the abuses during Marcos' 20-year rule. to Manila. next day to begin his exile in During Marcos' final years, the Weinberger's IS-member delega­Honolulu, Hawaii. United States repeatedly demanded tion flew from Tokyo. 

Three students believed responsible for assault of ND Security officer 
By MARK PANKOWSKI the parking lot, the reckless car News Editor parked and three men appearing in­toxicated walked out. They spoke 
Three NOtre Dame students who briefly with one of the Security of­allegedly assaulted a Security of­ficers and then left, Gray said. ficer and rammed a car into eight The students walked toward parked cars early yesterday morn­Grace Hall and stopped at a tree, ing have been identified by Security Gray said. According to Rakow, and will be referred to Student Af­two of the students allegedly climb­fairs, said Security Director Rex ed the tree, while the other stood at Rakow. its base. 
An assault on a student and two One of the officers approached acts of vandalism also reportedly the student and apprehended him, occurred this weekend. Rakow said. The other two 
No criminal charges have been students then reportedly assaulted filed against the three students the officer and all three fled, allegedly involved in the officer Rakow said. assault, although charges of assault Security later found the students and battery and malicious by using the vehicle registration of destruction of property could the reckless car and identified them poetentially be filed, Rakow said. by their clothing, Rakow said. 
The officer allegedly assaulted by Although Security and the the students was take by Security to University might not file criminal St. Joseph's Medical Center after charges against the students, the of­the incident, Rakow said. 1-Je was ficer assaulted still has that right, released later int he day after being Rakow said. "But generally we let treated for bruises, abrasions and the University (disciplinary) pro­an injured knee. cess take its course," he said. 
Approximately eight cars parked Several other crime-related in­in the D-2 parking lot were damag­cidents also occurred over the ed in the incident, Rakow said. weekend. 
The names of the three students, In an incident occurring ealy which Rakow would not release, Saturday morning, a male student will be given to the Office of Stu­was assaulted on the first floor of dent Affairs today, Rakow said. LaFortune Student Center, accor­
The students, all male ding to Dave Anzaroot, the LaFor­undergraduates, have denied in­tune student manager working at the volvement in the incident, Rakow time. said, but ''we think we have enough The student suffered a cut elbow facts to prove otherwise." in the attack, said Anzaroot, who 
According to Rakow, another of­helped bandage the student's arm. ficer was assaulted one month ago The student's wallet was stolen, but at the Engineering auditorium. The was left behind apparently because individual was caught and referred it contained no money, Anzaroot to the University, he said. said. 
Rakow would not say what, if Anzaroot said he believed the any, punishment the student receiv­student was attacked by two in­ed. However, he: said, "the Univer­dividuals at approximately 12:15 sity looks on assault on any Univer­a.m. sity official, and that includes In an incident believed to have Security officers, as being serious, occurred late Saturday night, a and is dealt with very seriously." 1983 red BMW parked next to 
The incident yesterday began at Washington Hall was vandalized. approximately 3:30 a.m. when The car's windshield was smashed, Security received a call about a car the hood was scratched and the air running into other parked cars in was let out of three of the tires, said the D-2 parking lot, Rakow said. Will Neuert, a communications and 
The student who made the call, theater assistand professor and freshman Andy Gray, said he owner of the car. witnessed the car from his 11th According to Neuert, Security floor Grace Hall room "doing has found fingerprints, partial doughnuts . . . and pushing cars handprints, and shoe prints on the around" in the parking lot. car. Security believes that several 
Gray said after two Security see CRIMES, page 5 guards in separate cars arrived at 
Senate gives Clover Awards to Faust, Hurley, Linhart 
This year marks the second time
Notre Dame fighting spirit," said "If you ever want a statement on for your kindness and this great
By JOHN M. COONEY Bill Healy, former student body the power of prayer, just look at honor." Linhart has been nominated for the News Staff Linhart received the award award in the two years the senate
president. Kevin Hurley," she said. Hurley won the student's award, Hurley, who has been conscious because of her dedication to her job has awarded the Irish Clover while Linhart and Faust both since December, has been "trying and her love for the students, said Awards. 
Former head football coach 
received administrator's awards. hard to be a fighting Irishman," Healy. "She goes beyond the call of 
Gerry Faust, injured student Kevin 
Hurley, who was injured when said his mother. duty," Healy said. Last year, William Hickey, Hurley and student government struck by a car early last semester, tinhart has worked as student Director of Food Services and stu­
secretary Margaret Linhart have was given the student award Faust was selected co-winner of government secretary for five dent Doug Wurth won the awards. been selected winners of the Stu­because of the great strides he is the administrator's award, because years. This years' winners were chosen dent Senate's annual Irish Clover making in his recovery, said Healy. of "the type of character he form amon 20 people nominated awards. Hurley's mother said,'' Kevin was displayed while he was at Notre Linhart said she was honored to by both the senate and cabinet. "The award goes to the people very excited at receiving the Dame," said Healy. receive the award. 
"Sometimes you are not aware of The winners will receive a plaque
whom most exemplify the qualities award. " She said she attributes 
at the University of Notre Dame much of her son's remarkable In a letter tn Healy, ·Faust wrote, how much you are appreciated," and their names will be placed upon 
which are so admired: strength, recovery to the support of the "This (award) really mans a lot to she said. "1. do my best for them a permanent plaque in the student 
(the student~)." government offices. 
dedication, love and the traditional Notre Dame community. me and I can't thank you enough 
The Observer Monday, April 7, 1986 -page 2 

In Brief . 
Nai-Yuan Huang, a Notre Dame junior chemical engineering major was killed March 27 in a single-car accident on Interstate 80 in Lock Haven, Penn. Huang, 31, of 704 Corby Blvd. was the son of Oi-Din You and Yao-Zeng Huang, both of China. He is survived by three brothers, including Dr. Ai-Zhong Huang of South Bend. Huang was cremated and burial will take place in China The Observer 
"Cheese and macaroni" will be the way that food it­em will appear on future menus issued by University Food Ser­vices, according to Don Montanaro, student body vice president. Montanaro said he persuaded Food Services Director William Hickey to change the dish's title from its more traditional macaroni and cheese to begin student government's campaign to alter the name nationwide. -The Observer 
Of Interest 
"The Emergent South African Trade Union 
Movement: A Critical Assessment of Its Collision with the Apar­theid State and Business" will be the topic of a lecture today at 4 in R.oom 105 of the Law School. The lecture will be given by Ruti Tlhagale, associate director of the Educational Opportunities Council for Black South Africans, and guest scholar at Notre Dame's Kellogg Institute for International Studies. -The Observer 
Peace with Justice Week, which runs until Saturday, will hold a brown bag luncheon today at noon at the Center for Social Concerns Coffeehouse. Shelley Douglass of the Fellowship of Reconciliation will speak. -The Observer 
"Be Not Afraid," a Soujourner's film on civil disobe­dience, will be shown tomorrow at 12:15 in the Center for Social Concerns Multi-Purpose Room. Peace with Justice Week is spon­soring the movie. -The Observer 
Professor John Gilligan, former governor of Ohio, will discuss combining faith and politics tonight at 7:30 in Pas­querilla East's Chapel Lounge. The talk is part of the Peace with Justice Week. -The Observer 
Jane Butler Kahle, professor of biological sciences and education at Purude University, and recently selected Speaker of the Year by the Indiana Academy of Science, will present the lec­ture "Science Literacy: The Missing Link" tomorrow night at 7 in Saint Mary's Carroll Hall. The lecture is sponsored by the depart­ment of biology and the department of Chemistry/Physics at Saint Mary's and is open to the public. -The Observer 
"Getting Things Done," a seminar on time manage­ment, will take place at the South Bend Public Library tonight at 
7. The free program will focus on an effective system to prioritize responsibilities, improve morale, and upgrade social relationships. 
-The Observer 
Nobel laureate Marshall Nirenberg of the Na­
tional Heart, Lung and Blood Institute will give the John A. Lynch Lectures tonight and tomorrow. Tonight at 7 in the Library Auditorium, he will give a lecture entitled "From Genes to Neurons." Tomorrow, Nirenberg will speak on "Positive and Negative Re~ulatiqn of Neuroblstoma mRNA by cAMP" at 4 in room 127 ofNieuwlandHall. -The Observer 
Class of '87 sitting times are still open for senior portraits being taken this week. Students should see the secretary in the New Orleans Room of LaFortune today from 9:30 to 5. The Dome re­quests that students do not call its office because its phones are out of order. -The Observer 

Weather 
Bookstore players be thankful. Mostly sunny today. High in the mid 60s. Partly cloudy and a little cooler tonight. Low near 40. Partly cloudy, breezy and cool tomor­row, high in the mid 50s.-AP 
The Observer is c:ontinuina to ex­perience typesettiq 4ifficu1tics in the daily operation of the newspaper. The staff apologizes for any delays or production er­rors. The situation will be amended as soon as possible. 
lbe Observer (I ISPS ~99 Z·4()()()) is published Monday through Friday except durin!( exam and vacation periods.lbe Observer is published by the studenrsoflhe I 'niversity of Notr<: Dam<: and Saini Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for JW per year ( JZO per s<om<:ster) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 
~6~%. 
lbe Observer is a member of lbr Associated Pr<:ss. All reproduction right• are 
r~St"~·ed. 


Salt-shaker gag, burnt toast mar dining hall experience 
There are a lot of things I like about Notre Dame. None of them spring to mind at the moment, but I'm sure they exist. This is understandable, however, con­sidering that I've just returned from one of the two fine dining establishments of this University -North Dining Hall. 
I hate the dining halls. 
Now Mr. Hickey, don't get hysterical and start flashing your Ivy Award at me. Amazingly enough, it is not the food about which I am complaining. (That was last year's article anyway.) It is instead the ill­mannered boors with whom I share spanikopita. 
Everyone knows the scenario. You calmly walk toward the dining hall, to all outward appearances a rational, level-headed individual. However, lurking somewhere deep inside is an animal just waiting to be aroused by the aromatic scents of Italian night. 
You enter the dining hall, still assuming the polite facade. Your outward cool begins to break down somewhat when the checkers inform you that your ID needs to be re-magnetized. They are completely un­moved by the various bribes you offer them. 
Having gone to the basement of South Dining Hall to get your ID, to once again attest that you do in fact exist, you re-enter the lobby just in time to encounter the 12:15 lunch "line," (a term inaccurately applied to the crushes of humanity which push and elbow their way toward the .slop ... er, the foo4.). 
Once you have actually managed to assemble silver­ware, napkins, and whichever of the three entrees you find least repulsive, you steal yourself for the next bat­tle-the pop machines. 
I have often fantasized about what it would be like to be Tim Kempton or Ken Barlow, who must regard the scuttling crowds jockeying for position below them with a mild sense of co ntempt as they casually stride through the throng with six easily-filled glasses. As I am one of that throng, however, and since my five-foot frame is not exactly a strategic advantag~ I generally emerge from the tangle of arms splashed with Coke and cursing my peers. 
My disgruntlement continues through the ''meal" (use your imagination) as all sorts of surprises and ir­ritations await. My personal favorite is the old "1-bet­you-thought-that-salt-was-going-to-come-out-of-this­salt-shaker" gag, whose effect is enhanced by the hysterical laughter of my friends as milk tumbles onto my french fries. (I of course, naively expected salt). 
Other pet peeves of mine include people who put the peanut butter scoops into the jelly, throw butter pats onto walls from 15 feet away just to see if they stick (they do), steal my bagels from the toaster while I am 
CAREERS 
The U. S. Navy Supply Corps has OPenings in training pro­grams offering early managerial and technical responsibilities. 
Qualified applicants receive 10 months Paid training leading to immediate positions in one of the following: 
-Systems Inventory Management -Acquisition Contracting -Computer Systems -Financial Management 
A~tarting salary of $19,000 Per year, and up to $32,000 in 4 years with regular promotions and increases. 

Mary Heilmann 
Assistant News Editor 


in search of. cream cheese, and stack five trays on top of each other when the conveyor belt is temporarily stalled. (Note their astonishment when the aforemen­tioned trays crash to the floor). 
But I really shouldn't exclude myself from the list of etiquette offenders. Even though I am not guilty of any of these crimes, I engage in an ongoing battle with the mechanical devices in the dining hall, which I'm sure causes untold grief to the people unlucky enough to be behind me in line. 
The pyromaniac in me emerges as I approach the toaster and casually throw in a hapless piece of bread, which soon becomes an inferno, billowing smoke through the dining hall and defying my frantic efforts to dislodge it from the slot. At this point, I generally slime away, leaving the person behind me to battle the flames unassisted. 
Other evidence of my mechanical incompetence is my cluelessness at the cereal dispensers in South Din­ing Hall, which require a PhD in physics to operate, and the hot chocolate machines in North Dining Hall, which spontaneously continue to spew forth steaming liquid oblivious to the fact that my cup, tray, and all surrounding individuals are covered in it. 
Perhaps one day I will master the microwave and control my impatience with the lines and the hassles. But until then I will continue to battle it out three times a day. 

BA/BS Degree (or within 12 
months of graduation> 
-B average preferred 
-U. S. Citizen 
-Age limit of 29 
A Navy representative will be on campus APril 9th & lOth. Make an bppointment at the Placement Office-or call for additional information, toll-free, at: 
1-800-382-9404 

Navy Officer Programs TAKE CHARGE OF YOUR CAREER. 

The Observer Monday, April 7, 1986 -page 3 




Terrorism transforming world into free-fire zone, say experts 
Associated Prell8 
LONDON -A wanton war with 
no rules and little pity is turning the 
world, bit by bit, into a free-fire 
zone. 
International terrorism is strik­ing in numbing waves. It left at least 926 people dead worldwide in 1985, hundreds more than in any year since the U.S. State Depart­ment began compiling statistics in 1968. 
So far this year, at least 43 more 
have died, including five 
Americans killed in last week's 
bombings of a TWA jetliner and a 
West Berlin nightclub. 
But terrorism has left another casualty as well: the system of global order, which has been shaken by terrorism assaults that exposed weak spots in international law and the Western alliance, led the United States into military con­flict, and made vigilantes out of governments. 
A recent series of interviews in the United States, Europe and the Middle East, with security officials and diplomats, scholars and politi­cians, alleged terrorists and their defenders, found disagreement over how to combat terrorism and even how to define it. But almost all agreed that such "free-form" political violence will spread in the years to come. 
"Terrorism is with us now, whether you like it or not. You've got to adjust your way of life to that," said Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist chief, George Churchill-Coleman. 
Those interviewed also generally agreed on these other points: 
-As governments strengthen defenses of embassies and other of­ficial installations, terrorists will become more indiscriminate, at­tacking "softer" targets like the in­

~1. N.D. 
ENIOR FORMAL rTUXEDO 1. 
Look Armond Rrfooro• \ nu llrnl $36~ ~r Designers:
•;)'10 ........_ I Pierre Cardin --._~ Bill Blass
I I 
Y.S.l., Dynasry, Miami Vice

Century FormaIwear (Who's Evan Piccone?) 
nocent civilians massacred by Palestinians at Rome and Vienna airports last December. 
Terrorists will probably escalate 
to attacks on computer systems, 
power grids and other key links of 
industrial societies. 
Terrorist groups often maintain 
practical ties with each other, but 
are not joined together in a "grand 
conspiracy" against the West. 
As for defensive strategies, the security experts spoke most often of a need for better intelligence­gathering, particularly from within terror groups, and for closer cooperation among governments. 
But many spoke, too, of the need to address the problems that spawn terrorism. 
International terrorist incidents, those involving citizens or territory of more than one country, have doubled in number since 1975, to slightly over 800 last year, the State Department reports. Risks International, a U.S. consulting firm that tracks single-country ter­rorism as well, counted more than 3000 major incidents in 1985. 
Last year's TWA hijacking and Achille Lauro "seajacking" were more visible, but 1985's deadliest event was the downing of an Air­India jetliner over the Atlantic, believed to have been the work of Sikh extremist bombers. It killed all 329 aboard. 
Terrorism is not new. The 
French dubbed the 1890s, when anarchists tossed bombs into Pari­sian cafes, the "Dynamic Decade." 
What is new today is terrorism practiced on an international scale, a kind of global guerrilla war that has developed with developing technology. 
Jet travel and open borders, par­ticularly in West Europe, enable terrorists to reach far-off targets. A booming arms trade offers them the latest in compact, relatively cheap weapons in a nuclear age when traditional warfare is too costly. And instant communica­tions, advances in the news media, give their actions a "multiplier ef­fect." 


Terrorists' goals can be complex. West European groups, for exam­ple, are believed intent on provok­ing a police repression that will an­tagonize the public and pave the way for revolution. But, first and foremost, the experts say, terrorists crave attention for their cause. And the causes are proliferating. 
The "traditional" groups are well-known: Palestinian militants, Irish Republican Army Provi­sionals, Basque separatists, anti­Turkish Armenians, Colombia's M-19 guerrillas, Italy's right-wing railway bombers, Lebanon's multi­striped car-bombers. 
But now, ominously, more obscure causes are exploding into the headlines as well -the cause of Tamil separatism, for one, in whose name 150 bystanders were massacred by gunmen at a holy place in Sri Lanka last year. 
In the United States, too, new­style terrorists strike: "right-to­life" militants who firebomb abor­tion clinics, for example, and ter­rorist bombers, possibly Jewish ex­tremeists, who killed an Arab­American activist last year. Terrorists are also becoming deadlier. Lebanon's anti-Western Shiite Moslem extremists are work­ing with bombs of unparalleled power for a non-military organiza­tion. 
"The ferocity is escalating," a 
U.S. Air Force security officer in West Germany said of anti­American terrorists there. They are not getting the kind of attention they used to get, and they apparent­ly feel they have to find new ways to get it. 


Arab extremists focus of Berlin bomb probe 
Associated Press 
BERLIN Police in­vestigating a nightclub bombing that killed a U.S. army sergeant and a Turkish woman and wounded 191 other people are focusing on Arab extremists who may have entered West Berlin from Communist East Germany, news reports said Sunday. 
U.S. diplomats said Libyan leader Col. Moammar Khadafy was suspected of complicity in Saturday's bomb blast that destroyed the La Belle discothe­que, which was popular with American soldiers stationed in Berlin. 
Of the 191 injured, 63 were Americans. 
U.S. military and West Berlin authorities identified the two people killed as Sgt. Kenneth Ford, 21, of Detroit, and Ner­min Haney, 28, a Turk. 
"The Libyan angle is being ex­
plored very vigorously. Khadafy is a very active suspect," said a U.S. diplomatic source, who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Khadafy called for Arab assaults on American interests worldwide after a U.S.-Libyan naval clash in the Mediterranean two weeks ago. 
U.S. officials in West Berlin refused further comment on the investigation launched by a special, 100-member commis­sion of West Berlin and American military police. 
Manfred Ganschow, director of West Berlin security police, said Sunday that three separate claims of responsibility telephoned the day of the explo­sion to news agencies in London and Berlin "cannot be con-

Seeking 1987 
Junior Parents' Weekend Chairman 
Applications available April 3, 1986 Office of Student Activities 1st Floor LaFortune 

APPLICATION DEADLINE APRIL 10, 1986 


: ACAPI ALANON : 
e ADULT CHILDREN OF ALCOHOLIC PARENTS e
• 

:Mondays....... 5:30-6:30 pm 
• Counseling & Psychological Services Center 
• 

: Room 316 •
•

• •I
• 
Does someone significant to you have a drinking 

• 
problem? Does It affect you? Maybe we can help. 1 • Call 239-5085 



sidered authentic." He did not 
go into detail. 
The Berliner Morgenpost dai­
ly newspaper said investigators 
were focusing on anti-Western 
Arab militants in West Berlin. 
It quoted unidentified West 
Berlin security officials as say­
ing the Libyan Embassy in East 
Berlin, the capital of East Ger­
many, could have served as 
headquarters for the bombers. 
The Morgenpost quoted 
Ganschow as saying intelligence 
reports indicated "fanatical 
Arabs operating independently 
of one another" had slipped into 
West Berlin recently. 
Ganschow told a news con­
ference that investigators con­
tinued to zero in on leftist and 
foreign terrorist groups, but "no 
concrete clues" surfaced to iden­
tify the bombers. 
Of the three claims of respon­sibility dismissed by Ganschow on Sunday: 
An anonymous caller In Lon­don claimed a West German lef­tist terrorist faction, the Holger Meins Commando, committed the bombing. 
A caller in Berlin said a previously unknown radical Arab group, the Anti-American Arab Liberation Front, was responsible. 
A second caller in Berlin said it was the work of the Red Army Faction, a West German leftist terrorist grop that has waged a bombing and arson campai&n against NATO interests. 
In Bonn, the West German capital, Foreign Minister Hans­Dietrich Genscher established a working group of experts to see if foreign governments, not identified, could have been in­volved in the disco bombing. 
Help Prevent Birth Defects ""' Support the 
~ ~!.9D~9.U?.'!!'~ 

Suntan Contest •Consistency •Presentation •Contrast $50.00 Cash Prize 
Also Sunburn Contest Thurs., April 1 0 
WE'LL PAY BACK YOUR LOAN,BUT THERE'S 


AHITCH. 
You'll like it, though. 
Because every year vou serve with us, w~ r~duce vour colleg~ debr bv one·third.or $1,500, whichever is greater. Greater still, after three vears your loan's repaid in full. 
You'll also like the sat is· faction and pride vou'll feel as vou learn a \'alL.ablc skill One you use to ~erve yourself as well as vour countrv. 
)t's ali' a parr of the Loan Repayment Program Tt' qualify, youust have taken out a ~ational Direct. Guar· anteed or Federallv Insured Student Loan after Octohcr I, 197;. And your loan can't he in default 
So if youtllike Unde Sam to pay off your college loan, pay your local ArmY Recruiter a visit todav Or call 
ARMY. BE AUYOU CAM 8£. 

The Observer Monday, April 7, 1986 -page 4 



U.S. should stick to arms treaty, says House chairman 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The Reagan administration should reaffirm its commitment to the 1972 treaty limiting missile defenses instead of viewing the pact in a way that per­mits "Star Wars" research, the chairman of the House Foreign Af­fairs Committee said yesterday. 
Rep. Dante Fascell, D-Fla., termed the administration's view of the treaty "defective and counter­productive" and said it would lead to a new arms race in space. 
Also yesterday, Rep. Les Aspin, D-Wis., chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, asked the Air Force to formally support the single-warhead nuclear missile known as "Midgetman." 
Fascell's statement was the latest round in a six-mont•l old fight over whether the 1972 Anti-Ballistic Missile treaty limits research and development into high-tech defenses against nuclear attack. 
The Reagan administration con­tends that the pact does not ban such research and is going ahead with the Star Wars plan, known formally as the Strategic Defense Initiative. 
The Soviets want SDI halted, but the administration says the 
American program is needea partly 
to offset a similar Soviet effort. · 
Administration officials, in­

cluding Secretary of State George 
Shultz, said last fall that in their 
view the administration was legally 
justified in a loose interpretation of 
the pact. But they promised to stick 
by a more strict definition they said 
would still permit SDI to go ahead. 
Both superpowers should reaf­firm their commitment to the ABM treaty, said Fascell, who is out of the country and made his views known in a statement issued by is office here. 
His is position taken previously by other critics of the administra­tion's build-up of nuclear weapons. 
Aspin's letter to Air Force Secretary Russell Rourke noted that the single-warhead missile has been endorsed by a presidential commission, which said it would increase stability in the superpower arms stand-off. 
Aspin noted that "there is a small minority" in the Defense Depart­ment that wants to cut spending on the Midgetman project and use that money for SDI, while other Pen­tagon opponents of the missile want to increase its size. 

Aspin and other supporters of Midgetman believe it would con­tribute to stability because they argue it is better to have a large number of missiles with single warheads rather than a smaller number of missiles with larger warheads, such as the triple­warhead Minuteman or 10­warheadMX. 
They argue that the MX would make a more inviting target to Soviet war planners considering a first strike because hitting on MX with one missile would knock out 10 warheads while it would take 10 Soviet missiles to destory the same number of Midgetman weapons. 
~**********************************t 
iFrank Pinn ® £ t Happy 19th Birthday!! £ 
1**********************************' 

PRE-LAW SOCIETY SPRING MEETING 
Mandatory for All Juniors 
· Information and Packecs necessary .for applyin to Law School will be distributed 
Tuesday April 8 7:30p.m. Engineering Aud. 
___15 _THEBE UE.E.___ Af_JE13.._(QMMHJCEMEOIT___ 
directed by 
___________BE~u18~--2~0~------------------­
where 

__ --~-CBOlliE'S HOUSE-ffil 
contact 
__UOL\LE.R.SiiL.MI n1 STL.J...JBLL.Y__ sign-up deaaTine 
APRIL 14, 1986 OFG a UNMRSITY MINISW 
1m1 
CUT 






THE COST OF 
lOOKING GOOD. DURING NWISION'S SPRING SALE. 

F ES 
SAVE~6s40 
WHEN YOU BUY PRESCRIPTION LENSES. 

CONTACTS 
SAVE 540 SAVE 520 
ON EXTENDED-ON CLEAR DAILY­WEAR CONTACTS.t WEAR CONTACTS.t 
Eye examination extra. Available by 
independent licensed optometrist. 
OWer good at participating offices only. Some restrictions apply. tOW regular price at replacement lenses. 
THE SCIENCE OF BETTER VISION. THE ART OF LOOKING GOOD. 
LaSalle Square 234·3123 University Park Mall277·8682 McKinley Town &Country 256·1864 Elkhart Maii·Eikhart 295·2496 Plymouth Center·Piymouth 936·5012 Niles, 1012 Main Street, 684·8008 

The Observer Monday, April 7, 1986 -page 5 
Jordanian arms deal embarrassing; Saudi proposal will pass, Bush says 
Associated Press 
DHAHRAN, Saudi Arabia ­Vice President George Bush said yesterday the Reagan administra­tion was "somewhat embarrassed" when Congress blocked a big sale of U.S. arms to Jordan, but he predicted that a $354 million pur­chase of advanced weapons by Saudi Arabia would win approval. 
Bush arrived in this eastern pro­vincial city on the Persian Gulf earlier in the evening from Riyadh for an official dinner with King Fahd. 
A business meeting, restricted to male guests and excluding Bush's wife, Barbara, was arranged to follow the dinner. 
Prospects for congressional ap­proval of the sale of 2,566 missiles 


Inflation worse in poor countries 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Inflation rose in poor countries while dropp­ing in the United States and other rich countries last year, the Interna­tional Monetary Fund reported yesterday on the eve of a semi­annual week of joint sessions with the World Bank. 
Financial officials and bankers from 149 member countries will be attending the meetings, which will be held behind closed doors. 
One session will bring together 
U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker and the finance ministers of Japan, West Germany, France and Britain. This group took the in­itiative in driving down the price of

.. 
the dollar and lowering interest rates. Fund officials calculated the in-

Juniors 

Earn Over $1000 A Month While Still In School! 
It's oart of the Navy's Nuclear Prooulsion Officer Candidate Program. And the money you can earn while still in school is Just the beginning! 
After graduation, you will receive graduate level training valued at $30,000 and begin work as a technical manager with immediate authoritY and responsibilitY. This is the onlY orogram of its kind in the world. 
To qualifY you must be between the ages of nineteen and twentY-six, be in good health and meet stringent academic reauirements. 
A Navy·Engineering Programs Specialist will be on campus April 9 R 10, 1986 
For more information call toll-free 1-800-382-9404, Mon-Wed, 8:30am-2om. 
-------Lead the Adventure------­
to Saudi Arabia improved recently when a major pro-Israel lobby in Washington, the American-Israel Public Affairs Committee, signaled it would not actively oppose the deal. 
"I believe that this arms sale will go through. In my view it must go through," Bush told American businessmen at a breakfast meeting in Riyadh. "I think this one is in better shape than some of the other deals that have been aborted by the United States Congress." 
"We frankly were somewhat em­barrassed," he said, when Congress forced the administration to withdraw a $1.9 billion arms pur­chase by Jordan's King Hussein because of lack of progress toward Middle East peace talks. 
Since then, Bush said, Hussein 
crease of prices to consumers in poor countries at 49.3 percent for 1985, compared with 46.3 percent in 1984. The rate was especially high in Latin America: 164.2 per­cent, up from 145.3 the year before. There was a small decline in Asia to 6.8· percent and a larger one in the Middle East, to 12.5 percent from 16.3 percent. 
In the United States and 20 other industrial countries the average rate of inflation came to 4.2 percent, a steady drop from the 7.5 percent of 1982. 
The IMF memorandum, an of­ficial monthly publication, said the top rate of inflation was in Argen­tina, 672.1 percent for the year, followed by Brazil with 227 percent and Peru with 163.4 percent. Israel's inflation was running at an annual rate of nearly 172 percent in "kind of broke off discussions with us. We understand it in a sense because we said we were going to do something as the United States, we meant to do it, we wanted to do it, we felt it was in the interest of peace, and we weren't able to deliver because the U.S. Congress did not see it our way." 
At his meeting with businessmen in Riyadh, Bush reaffirmed the 
U.S. commitment to keep oil flow­ing through the gulf. 
Alluding to the U.S. military strike against Libya, Bush said the United States "is fundamentally, ir­revocably committed" to maintain the free flow of oil through the gulf region. "After this past month, no one should doubt the importance we attach to freedom of passage in international waters." 
January of this year, but it is reported to have dropped sharply since then. 
Decreases were noted in Hong Kong, Indonesia, Pakistan, the Philippines, Singapore and Sri Lanka, while sizable increases were shown for Burma, Nepal and Thailand. 
Among the industrial countries, the lowest inflation rates were in Japan, 2 percent, and West Ger­many, 2.2 percent. Inflation in the 
U.S. dropped to 3.6 percent from 
4.3 percent in 1984. 
The biggest rise was in New Zealand, to 15.4 percent from 6.2 percent. Iceland continued to have the largest inflation rate among the 
industrial  countries,  32  percent,  
compared  with  30.6  percent  in  
1984.  



The Observer/Todd P. Taylor 

Ordination ceremonies 
Francis Murphy C.S.C. is ordained into the priesthood by Father Mark McGrath, archbiship of Panama. Thomas Streit 
C.S.C. and Mark Thesing C.S.C. were ordained along with Mur­phy Saturday during the ceremonies at Sacred Heart Church. 



Crimes 
continuedfrom page 1 
on-lookers were involved because of other show prints found in the area, Neuertsaid. 
Shoe prints across the car's hood indicate the windshield was smash­ed when someone ran across the car, stepping on its windshield, he said. Insurance investigators will estimate the extent of the monetary damages to the car today. 
Neuert said he is distributing notices asking that the individual responsible or those with any infor­mation about the incident contact him. 
In another act of vandalism, this 
Are you or someone you know ...? 
sad  troubled sleep  
pessimistic  loss of appetite  
fatigued  poor concentration  
poor motivation  loss of enjoyment  

If two or more of these describes you or a friend, this workshop may be for you. 
THE COLOR BLUE (overcoming depression) 
All interested are welcome Tuesday, April 8 at 6:30-8:00 in room 316 of the Student Health Center. Sponsored by Counseline and Psych. Services Ctr .. (soon to be renamed. Watch for details) 
Notre Dame Avenue Apartments 
NOWRENTINGFORFALL 
Completely furnished. balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES (good deals for Summer Sealon) 
Office at 120 ND Ave 
~7/156-5716 
Call Aaytlme 
one occurring Friday night, an art student's sculpture was toppled. The 400-pound sculpture, made by senior art design major Mike Hof­man, was shaped in the form of a fishhead and located in front of hte art building. 
Hofman said he had worked periodically since last semester on the sculpture, which was made of clay and decorated with ceramic tiles. 
An employee at the Security of­fice declined comment on the in­cidents last night, referring all questions to Rakow. Rakow, however, said he could not com­ment on the student assault nor on 
the two act·s of vandalism because  
he had  not  read the reports  
yet.  



~i~~~_()__i_It__t___________________M_on-da-y,_Ap-ril-7,_19-86--p-~e-6 
People, spirit make Notre Dame special place 
How many times have you heard someone complain about the Notre Dame administra­tion or the grounds crew or the weather? We hear complaints about the newfountain, Apar­theid divestment, parietals and du Lac. The dining halls are never perfect and The Ratio is always unsatisfactory. More often than not, these people wish they were somewhere else; they would rather be at Stanford or Princeton or Duke. Some go so far as to apply for trans­fers. 
WilliamJ. Curran guest column 
But it never seetns to materialize. These "transfers" appear the following year in your 

P.O. BoxQ 

of divestiture about which the cranks have bleated on and on. But that idea has finally found a home and settled for a season in the porous minds ofexuberant youths. 
In a world of palpable and pervasive evils purveyed Soviet-style, in the real world of major league evils perpetrated by one of the most lurid and menacing policies which has been fabricated in a while, it is strange how so much fire can be misdirected at friendly and relatively harmless nations. So much passion and protest is brought to bear on the wrong people. And the thought behind this feverish passion and protest must be likewise strange, to be sure. 
In fact, it is simply ludicrous to think that life in South Africa, and even less our par­ticipation in that life, is the premiere object presently deserving our indignation, or to think that located there we find somehow the main moral axis about which our obligations now turn. 
Somewhere in the bewildering logic ofthis, 
though, something large and obvious has 
passed unperceived -something like balance 
or proportion or breadth ofjudgement. 
RobertAnderson Notre Dame graduate student 
Islam does not condone 
this issue any further. My understanding ofthe Quran is that it supports the concept of a jus­tified war, specifically a defensive war to protect territory or personal rights. Someth­ing which is very important to note is that Is­lam was intended to guide a whole society, including the government. It therefore takes positions on issues which Christianity "leaves to Caesar." 
Many courses of action have been taken throughout history by Islamic governments or groups which may seem appalling, but I do not think any more so than son1e actions of misguided Christian ones; the Crusades, the Inquisition, and Colonialism readily come to mind. Does the religion oflslam especially en­courage or allow terrorism? I really do not think so. Lebanese Christians are behaving in much the same fashion as are Lebanese Mus­lims. The situation itself seetns to produce the violence, as a not too dissimilar situation is producing violence in Ireland. 
I would like to mention some aspects of Is­lam which particulary appeal to me. First of all,there are the Muslitns themselves whom I have known; they shared with me their per­sonal questionings about the proper response to oppression. Many do argue to meet force with force; some tolerate terrorism as a prayer, mandatory contributions toward the support of the poor, respect for other religions and a great emphasis upon a fair and rational system ofjustice. The Sufis, a mystical branch ofIslam, are particularly committed to peace and spiritual growth. The practice ofin­dividuals and government can sometimes leave much to be desired, obviously. The cur­rent rise of intolerant fundamentalism, for ex­ample, is not attractive in its Islamic or in its Christian manifestations. 
The situation in some Islamic countries 
looks deplorable to us, but I think it is im­
perative to remember that there are many 
political and cultural factors operating. There 
are potentials existing within Islamic religious 
ideals which could provide a positive force. 
We should be careful that our attitudes, par­
ticularly as expressed in the media, do not 
contribute to a polarization of differences, to 
an entrenchment of defensiveness and hos­
tility. 
There are many Muslims on campus (more than the 20 estimated by Lobdell); I hope to see some responses to the issues raised by him and by myself. The Observer is an available forum to demonstrate the range of thought within the Islamic community. 
Nancy Hansen Notre Dame graduate student 

South Africa 'harmless' compared to Soviets 
Dear Editor: 
A charming story came across the wire last week, and local papers picked it up. It seems our comrades in Russia are growing ill­humored these days with their pesky Mghan neighbors. And so they have done the only natural thing that they could do. 
Last year they systematically brutalized and dispatched off to eternity 35,000 Mghan civilians by means ofan imaginative variety of antics. These included pitching old folks out of helicopters and strewing the countrysides with booby-trapped children's toys which blow off faces and fingers and generally ruin a kid's day. 
Just lovely. Now mind you, this is from the documented findings of a disinterested U.N. commission. 
Also last week, on a (onege campus fixe<;! mid-west in the cosmos, a student body of overall unreflective young people, donning their political garb for a day and displaying the biceps of the democratic method, voted up a measure that would have the movers and the shakers oftheir college let loose their money­muscled grip on life in South Africa. After all, South Africa is a place where a travesty of justice goes by the name oflaw, a place where the modicum of peace, order and prosperity that they enjoy is but the trappings concealing poverty, corruption, racism and oppression, and a place where things are not nice. 
Student backing of that proposal un­doubtedly has brought some joy to some of the otherwise discomfited and malcontent professors at the same college. Up to then no one, not the administration, not the Board, had really been brought round to the fine idea 
Doonesbury 

II.NYII/AY, tuHCN 16(JT NOIJ/ Plc'VC JUST60T HOME, IT FINAfd-.'1 106CTHIM HOME! CAMe WM£. "t£6UM&" ANY SUG6E5T/ON5, 
Tl) Be Y()(Jf? UN­C.OUNSC/..0~ ~ CLE ()1)1<£! 
/ \ 
Calculus or Core class. And they will continue to be in your classes until both of you graduate. Ofcourse, there arc exceptions, but these are few and far between. 
What special intangible attracts people to Notre Dame and what magnetism keeps those people here for the span of their .college career? Is is that Notre Dame has a rich history or is it the mystique of the Golden Dome? Some may claim that it is the post-college op­portunities that bring potential students here. Other students fall in love with the campus -it becomes the deciding flctor for many. While Notre Dame certainly has a beautiful campus, it is not the only campus in the country with ivy or lakes. 
Anybody who is presently attending or has graduated from Notre Dame knows that it is not the materialistic things that are the attrac­tion, but rather it is the people and the spirit that make Notre Dame special. Most students could have gone, academically, to a com­parable school. I had the opportunity to at­tend Cornell University in New York. But Cornell lacked that special something; the stu­dents walked by without so much as a glance ora smile. 
The special feeling is a sense of belonging, the friendly atmosphere, the helpful students who care. People across the country see it at the football and basketball games on televi­sion: the comradery and spirit of the student sections. That feeling is not specific to the United States alone. Many students come here from abroad which in turn leads to a diverse student population comparable to none. This diversity allows for a more complete and rounded education. One can learn of foreign 

terrorism, violence 
Dear Editor: 

I am writing to comment upon the article about Islam included in the special feature about non-Catholics at Notre Dame. My own background is American Baptist (a non­fundamentalist branch not to be confused with Southern Baptist). I have a great interest in other religions, particularly Islam. 
Charles Lobdell's article began by noting the widespread equation of Islam with ter­rorism in the media. but then did not address 
/A/CU.., I 51./PFfJSCI C(J(jtpCCW­
TACT lH/3 
FRENCH 
POUC&.. 
I 
means; and some argue vehemenently against any tactic which knowingly takes innocent lives.Just as Christians are currently debating whether or not there is ever a justified war, so there is debate in Muslim circles about non­violent courses of action. I do not see this as a major trend right now, but it could be nurtured by open-mindedness, and could conversely be stifled by continued expres­sions ofstereotyping and contempt toward all Islamic society. 
There is much to be admired in traditional Islamic ideals. The Quran advises regular 
roo M£95Y. wecww 
BE 77&0 UP IN COU!tT YOU 
RJI? ~-HOIAIAIKJJT MeAN 
IF YOU NC6QTIATE BUY I IJI/?ECTZ..Y HIM? FOR(IIM. I 
Garry Trudeau 
5UREl Jl5T 54Y Y()I)'RC UXJI<JNG A FORA NANNY. ZOMBIE 
NANNYr
\ \ 
countries through personal experiences rat­her than textbooks. Even closer to home, one learns about the different cultures and heritages in other states or even in one's own home state. 
Notre Dame's blend of people and spirit is what makes Notre Dame the unique, special place that it is. It is true that probletns do exist here and that people have the right to voice their opinions about the school's policies and other assorted decisions among other things. Yet through all of the complaining and the problems, Notre Dame hasn't lost its glory or its prestige. Notre Dame is still a special place despite its problems. But you probably knew that to begin with. 
William]. Curran is a sophomore mathe­matics andphilosophy majoratNotre Dame. 
Viewpoint 


P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 
46556 


Quote of the Day 

"Show me a thoroughly satisfied man -and I will show you a failure." 
Thomas AlvaEdison 


Ihe l lbserver 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer­sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Coiu.mn present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
General Board 

Editor-in-Chief................... Joe Murphy Business Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann Managing Editor . ............... Kevin Becker Controller . ................. Alex VonderHaar Viewpoint Editor . ............... Scott Bearby Production Manager . ............ Chris Bowler Sports Editor . ............... Dennis Corrigan Photography Manager .......... James Carroll Accent Editor . .................. Mary Jacoby Advertising Manager ......... Anne M.Culligan Saint Mary's Editor . ........... Margie Kersten Photography Manager ........... Drew Sandier Executive News Editor . ............ Frank Lipo Systems Manager . ............ David Thornton News Editor ..................... Tripp Baltz Graphic Arts Manager . ........ Mark Weimholt News Editor . ................ Mark Pankowski 
Founded November 3, 1966 

·-­

Bill, Bob and Biffsing to the crowd at the relocated Nazz. 


Nazz alive and kickin' 

MARY JACOBY 
features editor 

Despite the less-than-crazy at­mosphere of the North Dining Hall, the annual Nazz Music Com­petition was a success Friday night as 14 acts played to a crowded house. 
"It was great; there was standing room only," Liz Keys, SAB musical entertainment committee assistant chairperson and the competition's director, said. 
Five winners were picked from the competition, and Saturday night was supposed to have been an encore performance for the win­ners. Two of the winners, however, had previous engagements, causing the encore to be postponed to a later date. 
Also, six students were selected at the competition to play with Max Weinberg, the drummer for Bruce Springsteen's band, the following weekend when he will make an ap­pearance at Stepan Center. 
Taking the first-place prize of $200 was the Pat Giblin Band, six seniors who play a mixture of original songs and late-60s rock. The audience repsonded en­thusiastically during the band's set, clearing away the tables to make room for dancing. 
The Pat Giblin Band, which has 
been playing together in local bars, consists of Mike Toner, lead vocals; Bill Leonard, guitarist; Scott Johnston, bass; and Chris Smolen, saxophone. Tom Barry, rhythm guitar; and a South Bend drummer known as Johnny. 
Second place and $150 went to the Bill, Bob and Biff Band, which played a mixture of folk and soft rock with covers by Crow by, Stills and Nash, and America. The band consists of Zahm Hall residents Mike McDermott, Jeff Sayre, and Noble Levasque. The Bill, Bob and Biff Band began last year when the members started singing in their hall bathrooms. When their music began sounding good, they decided to make the band public. 
Winning third place and $75 was Word of Mouth, a seven-member dance band formed in October, 1985. Word of Mouth is Chuck Amata, alto saxophone, Bill Merkel, bass; Mike Sharkey, guitar; Jim Tyler, vocals; John Berets ka, keyboards; Paul Loughridge, drums; and Kelly Har­rington, vocals. 
The judges awarded the fourth­place prize of $50 to Monarch, a band playing '70s rock and roll. Monarch consists of Peter Grenier, lead guitar; Tom Conforti, bass; Shawn Ryan, drums; and Ryan Powell, vocals and guitar. 
The 
The last prize awarded was $25 to T. Cross and the Trappers of Success, an eight-member pop band which performed original songs written by Terry Cross, the lead vocalist. Other members of the band are Joe Brady, drums; Chris Barnabo, keyboards; Ed Sheckler, tenor sax; Mike Myers, trumpet; Mike Peeney, bass; Andy Schlitz, guitar; and Mike Schrimpf, alto sax. 
The competition lasted until 2 a.m., much longer than the pro­jected 12 a.m. ending time. Judges were Jim Dolan, a member of the 
Notre Dame basketball team; Lee Broussard, SAB manager; Mike Switek, Notre Dame's new student body president; and John Van, a published songwriter and Notre Dame graduate student. Dennis Tillman served as emcee and Mike Varlotta and Mike Vore were in charge of sound. 
Selected to play with Weinberg were Ryan from Monarch, Smolen, Leonard and Toner from the Pat Giblin Band; Fred Cassel from the band Wicked Shed; Brian Burke and O'Keefe from Four Guys and Pete; and Mike Speranza, a solo act. Judges for the Weinberg com­petition were Ron Mileti, former SAB music entertainment commis­sioner; J.A. Lacy, current music ~ommissioner; and Don Seymour, WVFI music director. 
Although the competition did not take place in the Nazz this year, Keys decided to keep the original name because "upperclassmen will know what it is, even though it's not in the same place." The com­petition began later than usual this year, because organizers were waiting for Chautauqua to be finished. When no completion date was in sight, it was decided to hold the event in the North Dining Hall. The original Nazz, which has been remodeled in the LaFortune Center renovations, now contains no stage and is no longer being used for musical entertainment. 
"We tried to assimilate as much as possible," Keys said. And it was a success. "71/e really captured the spirit of the Nazz," Keys said. 
-------------~ 
Monday, April 7, 1986 -page 7 
Bronze art under the Dome 
Dave Dvorak 
Out of the lunch box 
• 

I love spring at Notre Dame. After a long winter of hiberna­tion, students flock to the quads to frolic and bask in the Indiana sunshine. 
There are those who play Frisbee, those who practice lacrosse, those who play catch, and, of course, those who sunbathe. 
While enjoying the beauty of yesterday afternoon, I came across a notoriously appearance-conscious girl that many call Glamourous Pam. She was lying on a blanket in a two-piece bathing suit, reading Cosmopolitan magazine. Her heavily-oiled body glistened in the sunlight. · 
As I approached, Pam looked up from her magazine and squinted in my direction. 
"Hey, how was your break?" she asked me. A very original ques­tion. "Mine was great!" she said, before I had a chance to answer. "I went to Fort Lauderdale -the weather was fabulous. I caught some serious rays." 
I'd imagine there are more serious things you can catch in Fort Lauderdale. "I'm not kidding," she said. "The sun was absolutely brutal all 
week." I'm sorry to hear that you suffered. "No, it was great," Pam said. "I really made a lot of progress on 
my tan." What kind of progress? "Well, let me put it this way," she said. "I started spring break at 
SPF-12 and since then, I've dropped down to SPF-2." That's funny -it doesn't look like you've lost weight. "No, SPF stands for sun protection factor," said Pam. "It tells 
you the strength of suntan lotion. The higher the SPF of the lotion, 

the more of the sun's ultraviolet rays it blocks out. I'm using SPF­
2, which lets almost all of the sun's rays to pass through." 
Sort of like cooking oil. 
"Well, it allows me to obtain the deepest, darkest tan possible so 
I can look my very best." 
Sounds like you've been watching too many Coppertone com­
mercials, Pam. 
I glanced oyer the array of bottles and tubes lying near Glamourous Pam's blanket. It looked like she was preparing to do a chem lab experiment. There were three different bottles of sun­tan lotion, a jar of Blistex lip cream, a tube of nose block-out, and a bottle of baby oil. 
I picked up a tube of something called For Faces Only. 
"That's for your face," she said. 
thanks, Pam, i would've never guessed. Why do you need special suntan lotion for your face? 
"Where have you been?" she said. "Everyone who has ever spent time in the sun knows that your face tans differently than the rest of your body -that's why you need For Faces Only." Then she showed me a green bottle. 
"Do you know what this is?" she asked. 
Let me guess -For Kneecaps Only. 
"Don't be silly," she said. "It's lemon juice." 
Are you making mixed drinks out here? 
"No, you put lemon juice in your hair so it'll get lighter in the sun. I think lighter, blonder hair is more attractive." 
Well, if you're not careful where you rest your lemon juice­drenched head, a colony of ants just might find your hair attrac­tive, too. 
Pam's eyes widened as she sat up nervously, ran her fingers through her hair, and said, "Don't even say that in jest." 
Hey Pam, since when did sunbathing become so scientific, anyway? I mean, the earliest American settlers probably didn't worry about sun protection factors. I bet Davy Crockett never put lemon juice in his hair. 
"Well, I like to thing of tanning as an art," she said. "The sun is the artist and my body is the artwork." 
I suppose even Michelangelo had his bad days. Listen, why are you so obsessed with keeping that spring break tan? Don't you realize that you're in South Bend and it's only April? Inevitably, we're going to get hit with another giant snowstorm, the sun will be absent from the skies for weeks, and your beautiful tan will peel off like a snake's skin. 
"Well, I was watching Channel 16 Live at Five news," Pam said, "and Dick Addis assured us that we're going to have a beautiful spring." 
Like I was saying... 
Gillespie i~ a junior English and Promotions writing major at Saint Mary's from Pittsburgh. Gillespie was a The Observer Accent depart­features writer before becoming ment announces the following a copy editor. Reynolds, who promotions: Kathy Martin, a served previously as a features junior English major from In­writer and a member of the dianapolis, is an assistant layout staff, is a junior English features editor. Martin was major from Edina, Minn. formerly a features staff writer. Young is an engineering major 
Caroline Gillespie, Mary from Rochester, Mich., who has Reynolds and Lisa Young have been a features writer and a been promoted to copy editors. features senior staff writer. 
The Observer Monday, April 7, 1986 -page 8 



Sports Briefs 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team split its 
weekend matches. On Saturday, the squad downed W. Michigan, 9-0, but dropped a 7-2 decision to Wisconsin yesterday. Full details will appear in tomorrow's Observer. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team 
swept three matches this weekend. The team beat Toledo 6-3 on Friday, Michigan St. 5-3 on Saturday and E. Michigan 6-3 yester­day. Full details will appear in tomorrow's Observer. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame golf team finished t4th at the Purdue Invitational this weekend with a score of 923. Miami (Ohio) finished on top with a score of 878. John O'Donovan was the top Irish finisher, shooting rounds of 75, 80, and 79. More details will appear in tomorrow's Observer. -The Observer 
Keith Robinson an Irish basketball recruit, was named to the McDonald's High School All-America Team. The 6-9 for­ward from Grover Cleveland H.S. in Buffalo, N.Y., averaged 27.2 points and 16.0 rebounds in his junior year. -The Observer 
Tom Davis was named head basketball coach at Iowa yesterday. Davis, who previously was the head coach at Stanford replaces George Raveling who left Iowa to coach at USC. -AP ' 
The ND-Saint Mary's women's golf team will be holding a mandatory meeting tonight at 6:30 in Walsh Hall's TV room. For more information call Laura ~Gleason at 3351. -The Observer 
The ND rowing club will hold a meeting concerning the election of officers tomorrow at 7 p.m. in Nieuwland room 
127. All rowers are expected to attend. -The Observer 
Bookstore Basketball will be featured tomorrow on "Speaking of Sports" beginning at 10 p.m. on WVFI, AM-64. Bookstore commissioner Steve Wenc will join hosts Rudy Brandl and Kevin Herbert to answer questions and comments at 239-6400. WVFI will have results of Bookstore Basketball games every night at 11 :45 and previews at noon. -The Observer 
A 5-K Run for the Arts. sponsored by the Saint Mary's Art Department, will be held April 19 at 9 a.m. Registra­tion forms may by picked up at Angela Athletic Facility, Haggar College Center or LaFortune. The deadline for entries is Aprill4. 
-The Observer 

NVA fencing and team tennis entries are due April 11. The fencing tournament will be held April 14 and 15 from 6 to 8 p.m. in the ACC fencing gym and is for novice fencers. The team tennis tournament is a single-elimiation event to be held Aprill9. Both tournaments will include men's and women's divi­sions. For more information call NVA at 239-6100. -The Observer 
Irish Spring Run entries will be accepted at both din­ing halls on April 9 and 10 during dinner. Two races will be held Saturday, April 19, beginning at 10 and 11 a.m. For more infor­mation call NVA. -The Observer 
In the NHL last night, Philadelphia defeated Washington, 5-3, Chicago knocked off St. Louis, 3-1, New Jersey downed the N.Y. Islanders, 9-7, Calgary beat Winnepeg, 6-4, Hartford edged Boston, 4-3, Detroit bested Toronto, 4-2, and Pitt­sburgh squeaked by the N.Y. Rangers in overtime, 5-4. -The Observer 
Dwight Gooden, the New York Mets, Cy Young Award-winning pitcher, was involved in a minor traffic accident this weekend but was uninjured. Gooden will start as scheduled in the Mets' season opener against Pittsburgh on Tuesday. New York manager Davey Johnson fined Gooden for providing incomplete information about the incident. -The Observer 
Pat Bradley shot a one-under-par 71 yesterday to capture the Nabisco Dinah Shore LPGA golf tournament. Bradley's eight­under-par 280 put her two shots ahead of Val Skinner. -AP 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Briefs should be submitted on the forms available at the office, and every brief must include the phone number of the person submitting it. -The Observer 
Practice 
continuedfrom page 12 
"Beuerlein showed good leadership and moved the ball well, and Terry threw very well today. Steve Belles had an awfully good day. He was a pleasant surprise." 
Belles, a freshman, moved his troops upfield in his first drive on passes to freshman tight end Andy Heck and sophomore split end Tony Eason. The drive was capped off with the final touchdown of the day on a 14-yard completion over the middle to Heck. Belles com­
pleted seven of his nine passes on 
the day, as did Andrysiak. 
Beuerlein connected on eight-of-12. 
Holtz contends that the offensive 
line will be one of the main areas to 
be looked at in the upcoming spring 
practices. 

"Our offensive line is going to 
hold the key to our success offen­
sively," he said. "The amount of 
pride and discipline they show will 
tell the story. That's what we're 
trying to bring out in them. 
"Our quarterbacks are going to 
play well and our receivers will 
definitely do the job. Tim Brown 
and Milt Jackson did some good 
things today. We know what a Tim 
Brown can do. We have a young, 
inexperienced backfield that is 
making some progress, but the line 
is the key to our offensive success." 
One bright spot for the Irish in 
the scrimmage was the kicking 
game. While there were no 
kickoffs or punts, junior field-goal 
kicker John Carney was perfect on 
the day. He connected on three ex­
tra points, added a 25-yard field 
goal, and booted a 46-yarder to end 
the scrimmage. Holding the ball on 
all five occasions was junior punter 
Dan Sorensen. John Grieb handled 
the snaps. 

Rushing yardage was evenly 
split, as quarterback Belles picked 
up 36 yards to lead the team. 
Taylor collected 22 yards, while 
freshmen Corny Southall and Mark 
Green ran for 21 and 14 respective­
ly. As has been the case throughout 
the spring, Holtz used a number of 
offensive formations, including the 
wishbone. Receivers Brown and 
Reggie Ward each had the oppor­
tunity to carry the ball out of the 
wishbone set. 

7ht• fJhst•rr·t·r 'otrt: l>.tnll· ot1h.l· luc..Jicd on thl· IIHHI 1ltu1r 111 l.J.Itlrtunc: ~tudt•nt ( l'lllt'r. Jtu,:phc..l.l'-.~ltit·d .Jlhc:rtl,lll);tlrom l) .1111 until trIll \1ondJ.\ throuRh hid.l\ Tht• Uhserr·er ~Jonl \IJn 'offiu· lo<Jtl'd on till' tlurd floor ol IIJ!o(RJt ( .olklo(l' ( l'lltl'r. J<< l'J'll' <IJ,'IIinl' from I 2 ~II p m until ~ p 111 \Ion dJ\ thoulo(h fnda\ IkJdlorw lor m·" dJ\ <l·""lil'd, '' ~ p 111 \II <IJ"tlkd' mu"'t he prt·p.tld t'lt ht:r 111 pc.·r-.. t 111 tIT In m,ul ( h.trgt: 1' I i lc.nll' pt:r fl\ c.· c. lur.tc.






Classifieds 
lt:r.., t·r da~ 
NOTICES 
Typing Available 287-4082 
TYPING CALL CHAtS 
234-81117. 
Wordproceasing· Typing 272-8827 
TYPING • Fut, High·Ouallty. Cafl 287· 9257 
Typing/Wordpr<X*81ng 277-8131 
tiT SOURCE NEW CAJI SALE APRIL 18TH, NO ACC 
114 PORSCHE 1144 18,000 MILES $18,100 ND ACC APRIL 11TH. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
\ LOST/FOUND I 
HEYI!If 80 I'll ALL WETI11 SOMEONE TOOK OFF WITH MY U_,.ELLA • TUU.IIAJIJ. 11 ·AFTER UO CLAaSIN 220 O'SHAO. IT'S aUE CLOTH, 
AIIOUT A YARD LONG, A WOODEN 
HANDU AND ITS GOT A CARIIY1NQ STRAP. A FRIEND IIIOUGHT TT UCK FROM LONDON 80 ITS KINDA IIIPO... TANT. C'IION GIIIIIE A MEAKII DROP rr OFF AT THE LOST AND FOUND OR 110 UDIN HALL THANKI ALOT.. T. 

LOST::: Racquetbell Raquet and Preecription Spor1a Gluaea near Lyon's Hall parl<ing lot. If found call1528 or come by 1105 Flanner. yyyyyyyREWARDyyyyr. 
LOST: WHITE,SHORT WINTER COAT WITH GREEN PLAID SCARF TWO ID'S AND DETEX AT MR. D'S 3/19. IT'S NOT EVEN MY ID AND IT'S NOT EVEN REAL CALL CARRIE X3221 
FOUND: Middle-sized black umbrella at the Grotto. Call Mark at 1146. 
MISSING: LARGE ROUND ROTARY SIGN FROM THE LOWER LEVEL OF THE SAINT MARY'S DINING HALL. PLEASE RETURN-NO QUESTIONS WILL BE ASKED! THIS SIGN IS RE· OUIRED FOR THE ROTARY CLUB MEETINGS. 
FOUND: Ladiea watch outside O'Shaugn-y Thursday, 3-20. Call Kevin at 277-o920 to identify. 
HELPIUI LOST A IILACK AND GOLD STJIIPED WATCH IN THE F11'1ST WEEK OF IIAJIJCH. rr WAS PIIClaAaLY LOIT AROUND THE IUIINEU IUILDING, ST. IMCHAEL'S LAUNDRY DR CAVANAUGH HALL. PLEM£ COM­TACT TONY AT 1412. REWAJIIDIIIIF FOUND. HAll GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE, PLEASE HELPI! 
~...-I_F_O_R_RE_NT_____J 
EXTRA LARGE 4 BEDROOM HOUSE NEAR CAMPUS. LOTS OF EXTRAS! NEAR BRIDGET'S. $400 A MONTH UN· FURNISHED. WILL FURNISH IF DESIRED. CALL272-8185 
6 BDRM HOME. NEAR CAMPUS.272· 6306 
FURNISHED HOUSES CLOSE TO NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2876389 
WANTED 

INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS: Recendy Published, Guide To Greencard From F/J/H Vi-. For Free dataila, send refundllble $1 (P&H): Immigration Publications, P.O.Box 515991, Dallas, TX 75251. 
NO SPANISH INSTRUCTOR NEEDS REASONABLE ROOM/BOARD NEAR NYU FOR YEAR 86-87.CALL KEVIN 291·2878. 
HAVE FUN THIS SUMMERI Reaidental Camp in Southwestern Michigan needs counselors, instruct0111, unit leaders and proaram directors. Call for information and applicationa. Must be 18 yra. or older. Camp Chief MakiU!bee. 8800 Blacl< Lake Road, Eau Claire. Michigan 49111 (616)424·5272. 
NEED TICKETS TO N.D. COMMENCE· MENT EXERCISES. WILL PAY ($$). CALL BRENT, 2n-()417, EVES. BEFORE10. 
RESPONSIBLE NO JUNIOR, female, will sit with children (or houaa), perform household elloree. In return for room and board.Referencee available. 283-2762. 
GOT TICKETS FOR COMMENCEMENT ?? Need 2 tix. Will pay$$$. Call MARK at 2287. 
WORK WANTED. HARD WORKING MAN NEEDS MONEY FOR GRAD SCHOOL. EXTERIOR PAINTING AND LANDSCAPING. GOOD REFERENCES.CAI.L DON (616-695­2369). 
................................................................ 
FOR SALE 

SELL YOUR CLASS BOOKS FOR $$$ AND CREDIT! Cliff notea available. PAN· DORA'S BOOKS 937 South Bend Ave. 233-2342 
TICKETS 
I NEED 2 GRADUATION TICKETS!!!! IF YOU ORDERED EXTRAS, I WILL BUY THEM. PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 277· 1067. I AM DESPARATE!!!!I 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUlE: COLD BEER & UQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., 1 ILOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
Hungry? Call YELLOW SUBMARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery Hours tonight: 5pm-12am. 
FREE COUPONS In lha yellow 11..-of the campua Talaph-Dl...aory. UN them toclllyl 
Thank You St. Jude for all your help! Please continue to help me! 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE. I couldn't have d-ltwithout your help. 
................................................................ 
Spaniah,A·,Psych,98,Comp & Lit,A,Chemistry,7...Thank You,St.Juda!!!!!! 
tiT SOURCE NEW CAR SALE APIIIL 18TH, NO ACC 
114 POMCHE 1144 16,000 ltiLU Sti,IOO ND ACC APRIL 11TH 
88 SUIIAJIIU $1,243 88 FIERO 11,111111 88 GRAND-AIISI,IIIIII 881UNIIRD 118,111111 88 F1RUIRD 110,515 8811ERCURY LYNX $5,888 88 EICDRT $5,.7 88 OlD8 CALNI 18, IIIII 88 HORIZON 118,100 ACC APRIL 18TH 
ATTENTION SAINT MARY'S STU­DENTS: If you are intereated in being a day editor for The Observer and have Wednesday and Friday afternoons free lrom 12:30 lo 3:00 pleue contact Margie Kersten at 284-4425 or 239-5303. This is a paid poeition at the SMC office at HCC. 
ATTENTION EDUARDO! Sheri R. changed her image at Vail. Million Ac· compUshed! 
KEN and MARY (Goohy) cordially invitea the MBA School and studanta of Saint Mary's to their June wedding al Sacred Heart church at 12 midnight. Bring your own booze...should be the party of a life time. This has been an April Fools lrom 46.2!! 
There are Official Notre Dame Track and Field T-Shlrts and Sweat tops left (very few left). Please hurry and pur­chase one or as many as we have left. T·Shlrts are $8 and Sweat Tops are $15. Call Tom a\239-7634 for more In­formation ... this Is top quality mer­chandise. 
ST. PATRICK'S DAY RUNT-SHIRTS SORRY FOR THE INCONVENIENCE, t BUT THE T·SHIRTS CAN BE PICKED UP AT THE SAB OFFICE ON MON­DAY, APRIL 7, FROM 3:00 ·5:00P.M. ANY QUESTIONS CALL THE SAB OF· FICE AT 239-7757. 
SENIORS •.•...• SENIORS Moving to a n.w city? Need a roommate? Carear & Placement Sar-.lcaa can help. Stop by or call 239-5200. 
SENIORS ..... SENIORS Moving to a naw city? Need a roommate? Career & Placement Sar-.lces can help. Stop by or ca11239-5200. 
CONGRATULATION & THIS & THAT JIMMY JAMES Yale bound ...Yale bound...Yale bound from that certain Yale m!ln. 
30DAYSTILL THE CPA 
FOR SALE Official NO class ring ­NEW, 14K, women's petite, spinal blue slone. A good deal. Linda V. 277­6856. 
T.C. camper, orange kool-aid guzzler, Squirt truck chaser, Phll lover N.D. fan, turtle craver, Grand Rapidlan, Dorothy Hammel spin-alike, first In line to King James, and the best friend anyone could have! That's "Whatlllke about you!" Happy Birthday Missy! Love, Laura 
Sorry Manute. It was a rough day. 
The Observer Monday, April 7, 1986 -page 9 
Into the 1st round 
Today'o Gamoe lt-n1 

4:00 -5 Scuz Ballo All Covered In Sin v. 5 Pudl A· Orlbblin 
4:45 -4 Fogo & a Zahmbie v. 5 Packagoe The 
Poatman Can't Delover It 5:30-She Can't Wroe»e But You Should See Her Bo• 
v. 
Magoc Dick & the 4 Sklna 6:15-Scott Skltea' Dealer, A Dude From M1nneaota .. 

v. 
The Big Blue Vein 81-"2 


4:00 -Tranlj)Ofl Phenomenon v. Only OC Guyo 
Would Play With RAI 4:45-High On Ulev. We're Not Going to Make It PMI the Firat Round 
5:30 • Aherblrth ot the Carnlvotouo Bunerflieo v. 5 White Guyo Who Never 
6:15 -Hotno bunch v. Nol1h Hall Cooka 
11-"3 

4:00-Will Po-v. The Geoff Penero 
4:45 -Challenger Go With Full Throttle v. Kaddaly, 
Quaddaly, Gaddall. 5:30-F11r Game v. The Bearero ol the Holy Hand Orenede or Antioch 
6:15-While Dudel v. 5Guyo Who Uke Hot Pioe 11-"4 
4:00 -Revenge of the Bun-laced Sea Pigo v. Bo Leonardo'o Rambling Pro'o 
4:45 -we Seated o' the Goofaman v. Onentan E•prell 
5:30. Feotertng Sot• v. Obv1oualy We Have a Major Malfunction 
6:15 . Pelle Lindbergh & 4 Other Guyo Dying . . v. Open Loop Shootero 
''-"5 

4:00-Anal Vaporo v. The Velvet Buzz11wa 4:45-5 Sullo Genlly Ribbed Fot the True . v. Ftam­mmgBunr-• 5:30· D1c1<Proaen &theGetFreeh Crewv. TheBoyo 
6:15 . The Snackero v Ch1af Big Head & the 8loala 
4:00 . Soep Oloh Johnny & the Fr•hman Pokoe v. Dulac 

"-"· 

4:45-TJ & the Flbulouo 4 v. Gnom• From Hell 
5:30 -Sorry JR v. Emil T & the Empiricalo 
6:15. Keen Inmate II v K1ng Ortega & the 4 Seuona 
llooketore I 

4:00. Fatllilci< v. Juot Fot Fun 
4:45. Honer Than A Whotehouoe on Nickel Night v. Albino Tadpoloe 
5:30 • Hannelll'a Illegitimate Wet Brunen• v. We LOll 1n Length 
6:15. Fun Bunch Finalev. Good No Go llookalore 10 
4:00 · Cluefell v Kella Ia Hung Uke A Hotae 
4:45. The Muleo v. Ricky Nelaon. Chnata McAullll & 3 Other RaMOna 
5:30 . Get 011 the Rug v Doetinat1on Stepan 
6:15 -If We Loae lt'a Tlm'a Fault v. South Dining Hall Hot 
Lyona 11 4:00-A Streetcar Named Deeire Goong Nowhere. 
v. 4 PuNy-Whipped. , , 
4:45 -Or. Ruth & the Fighting Embreyoee v. Hlawatha'a Boys 5:30-The 5Spitting Shaboinkins v. The Peckeronota 6:15-The Return of Red, Red Winev. Nightmare 
Lyona12 4:00-Teacherain Space v. Ulydown, I Think I Love You 4:45-Bud'a Boya v. It's the Firat Time For Ua 5:30-Minions ol Gozar v. Kegela & Cutoffa 6:15-The Embarllling Stains v. Too Much Futch 
Sunday'a Reaulta 81-n1 
The Plebes over Seek D•troy AKA Kn-And E~ bowa Ted Ganley by 4 Captain Timbo & the Fantuy overBod 5 by 9 Leon Kllnghoffer & the 4 Aaauins over Ain't Too Proud To Beg by 10 Bodily Fluida over Randall'a Revenge by 18 Drunka Againat Mad Mothero over P.P. and the Nldo 
byB Johnny Wad & the 4 Other Lesaer Known Porn Stare over Bearded Clam Clan by 10 Team Cheeoe over We Eat Meat on Fndayo by 5 
81-nZ 
Hinkley's Tallgunnera over Throttle My Puppy With a Wooden Wallet by 3 Emotionally Exhauated & Morally Bllnkrupt by Walter There's a Fly In My Aherbirth by 14 Doobl• & RA-Hol• over Bun Hole Surfero by 17 Frank Wew. Girt'a Underwear over Stow Chilcren At 
Play by 11 

Michael Ray & the Snowflak• over Stan Notoe by forfeit Ben1 Lou over Bilby Let Go of My Eara I Know What 
I'm Doingby2 Miahawaka Expre11 over We Love the Smell of Tuna In the Motning by 11 
''-"' 
Flenner Vice over Buddha Fay & the Sky Lordi by 14 Too White To Win over We Loot Twice Ulat Year by 12 S1nk the Pink over Lobatero by 13 MBA XL's over Philadelphians Who Uke Nikki Hoi With Therr Hootero by 17 The 2-Men • The Unpubllcized On• over The 3-Eut Prieatby13 Ferdinand Marcoa, Bilby Doc, Gerry Fauat & 4 Other. 
over 5 Goda of Nerl by 8 Revenge Factor Returns Aa A Cool Breeze over Goop in a Bucket by 6 Katie & the Merry Pnankatero over Canine EmiAionl by 11 
ll-n4 Nebbtah over Mot1y ANESI & the Platdlterl by 10 Green w-n• over Paul'a Team by 19 Shyotero over Scum Bubblea by 11 

ICELANDAIR TO EUROPl 
EVERYTHING 
THATISN'TABARGAIN 

IIFREl 

To Luxembourg: RoundtripFare 

Get in on ourlowest fare to Europe in years. And with it, get a lot 
more than just the trip over. Because, when you fly lcelandair, you get 
everything you expect from a full-service airline, with no charge for 
meals or baggage. Every fare includes free wine with your in-flight 
dinner and free cognac after. 

Jcelandair Values Continue After You Land: Free deluxe, round­
trip motorcoach between Luxembourg and select cities in Germany, 
Belgium and Holland. Special $15 train fares to Switzerland or France. 
Super Saver Kemwel car rentals at just $59 per week in Luxembourg. 
And, if you choose, a day or two stopover in Europe's most beautifully 
kept secret, Iceland. 'Super Bargain Fare, 6-30 day stay. tSuper Grouper Fare, 1-365 

day stay. Valid 5/16-6/8/86, $3.00 departure tax applies. For .,_ 
mformation & reservations, call your travel agent or 

lcelandairiCiiANDAIRt-' 
Tri-State lnduetrill Lubricantl overWhat the Fyyy We're Senioro by 10 Bigg•t Molda On Campus over Freudian Kamlkaz• by 12 5 White Boys Who Wish To Be Admitted ... over 4 Frosh & a Huck Cheg by 9 Chaotic Otlcilatlona over The JIIIVik-5 by 20 Corby's Worot Thuroday Night Club over Sally & the Backdoor Boyo by 3 
8t-n5 

The Bungholoe over 4CFC by 12 Let'a Go Crazy over John Quincy Adami & His Cabinet by 16 
Doug E Fr•h & the Get Freeh Crew over The Love Machine & the Loyal Legion by 12 Poddle Chell With Cholnaky Over Chowder over Tex Toomey & the Hooaier Hater by 13 Where'e the Juetice over The Un-tucked Oxfotda by 12 5 Purple-headed Shootere over Blsta Blsta Deltaby 10 Mulllpte Orgum Addicta over Nice Body, Shame A/bout the Face by 7 
''-ntl 

Oily Buthawka over Staff Infection Plua a Virue by 10 Gay Bllahera over Alrfotce ROTC by 7 Balance & the Blsatbox Boys over Pangl011 Wu Wrong by 14 Red Heada Have Brown ... over We Hang Leh by 13 Look at Cutlge over Auatin Cair & the B.C. by 10 Blstter Than Hot Patch over Aeroplops by 9 Eagl• over Dlociploe of Bilby Doc by 3 
lookalorat 

We Shoot Bener Than Bllaketball over Otter 5 by 14 Numeggera X over Weal Virginia, There le a Santa Clauaby9 Cellfornia Cohnection over We're The World B. Free by6 4 Great Tragedioe & Rambo over Rod & the Dribbling Seamen by4 Snaffu over Eaay Woman, Tha\'1 Attached On One Side by 17 
llookatora 10 Our Beat Team Ever But We Still ... over TloJuan & the Border Patrol by 10 Merty & 4 Other Guya Who Smell of Tuna over The Jumping J-Heada by 2 Spudl over Woody & the Peckero by 6 Dancing lrioh Dingle Bern• over lnnabruck lrilh by 12 Terr-Bulax over Tuna-Flue by 2 
Lyona 11 Spoodheadl over 4 Do'a & a Dead Head by 13 The Morning Stiffl• Reach New HeighII over 5 Good Reaaone to Be PrCH:Ihoice by 16 Skywalker & the 4 Coachmen over Michael Walker & 4 Other Soviet Splea by 10 Hi Gina, I'm Rod, Rod Hairpiece over Paul Bunyon & the Woodl• by 8 Zoota Roota Zoot over Manute Bol & the 4 Dunking Dinkuby 15 5 Guyo That Smell the Glove over Acid Rain, The Pharmaciet ... by 11 Grandmuter Flaah & the Furtoue 4 over Ch-y Fluid Running ... by 17 
Lyona 12 Klinghoffer'a Swim lnatructoro over Romancing the Bone by 5 The lncompretica over Slippery When Wet by 10 5 Ethiopians Hungry to Win over Gerber: A Leading Diatributor of Fine Glauware by 12 What the F over 5 Guyo Who Wear Body Paint by 13 Sycamore Robbie & the Gonadl of Soul over 5 Ath· tetic Impoootero by 12 A Team without a Coz over 5 Blind Guyo with Hairy Palmeby 13 The Lee'a BBQ Roundhouee over The Executivoe by 15 We Can't Jam But We'll Slam Your Mama over Living In Sin by 17 
Saturday'a R•ulta 
''-"1

Sometimoe The Be8t Thlnga In Ufe . over Peter Dragon & the ... by 13 Doobiea & RA-Holoe over 5 Guya Who Play with the Rock'a Balla by 8 Emotionally Exhaueted & MotaMy Blankrupt over M~ ten Ulva & the 4 Hot Rocka by 12 We Love the Smell of Tuna In the Morning over Juat Plain White by forfeit 
11-nZ Sorry JR over The Nobodiea by 19 Catherine the Great Meell over Dr. Nightmare & Nothing DMPair by 18 Scum Bu-over Slamma Tappa K-. 22·20 
P.P. & the Nada over Drop Dead ... by 5 
11-"3 Alrt>orn Expr-over Buell Docloro by 12 The Double Stuffa over Richard & the 4 Skina by 15 LarTy Bird & Friendl Salute Jeff Petera over Uoa Martjuanao by 14 Desmond Tutu over Hinkley Had a Vloion by 5 
11-"4 Team Many Martooni• over 4 Geeka & a Buaine11 Majotby 15 The 5 Athletic lmpoootero over Grace Gunnero by 17 G & the Spots over Team No. 352 by6 
llooketore t Nice Body, Shame A/bout the Face over The Jim Seith Travelling Team by forfeit 5 Packagea the Poatman can't ... over You Can't Live with Them ... by 16 Slippery When Wet over Sure She Wu 12 But She WuAaGoodAaA ... by4 The Fouroome over 5 Screaming Demone by 13 
llooketore 10 Prime Bisel over Armpill by 10 Penguina in Bondage over Oui Belong by 2 What the F over Short Stow White Guye Who Cen't Jump by 15 
"I compared Paralegal P.rogramsand chose Roosevelt" • Largest ABA-approved program in the Midwest • Effective employment assistance-over )00 employers have hired Roosevelt graduates • Choice of time and location-Day and evening classes in the Loop, Arlington Heights • Dive1sified graduate level curriculum-specialize in Litigation; Corporations; Estates, Trusts and Wills; Real Estate; Employee Benefits or Generalist •STATEGUARII.NTEEDSTUDENTLOANS • R.ECRUITiiRONCAMPUSON 4-10-86 • Contact your placement office for details For your ropy ofthe Lawyer's Assistant Catalogue and an invitation to the next Information session in Lop! Assistant your area, write or CALL COu.ECf: Santa Fe Southern l'llcifoc !\12-341-3882 ----------------------~----­IIH--wilhThr: Not-'O:nl<•"" l'ualrpl Tl'aUlJDI! ~-------------------------­~--------------------------­Caty -------­Sta1< Z1p ---­1-hDt Phont Buunn.\ Phonr -------­ 

:·······················........................ editor in a variety of tasks, in­
cluding story developm\!nt and 
assignment, staff management, 
training of new personnel, filing

l12' Medium PIZZA (any topping)I
and formulation of sports depart­
! with extra cheese •

i PLUS
•
•
! Garlic Bread with cheese
• 
: DeUvery Orders Only 
(plua delivery and tax)


: • ·.. • $5.25 
•
i Limited DeUvery Area 
=~~0· ~ 
: oO #. o"~~·Plzz8
• ~ 0 ..l.~ 
• -fl~
. 
•• cv ~­
•
•
: .,.....,_....,_____
: 52929 u.s.lll'bth 
i 277-5880 
! GoodforSundaysandMondays : only with coupon 
P.B.S.R. & T. over 4 Fruetrated Olphallioe with 1 Bowling Ball by 4 
Lyona 11 I Don'tUeeYourBonzover5Guyo With F-Movoe Than the ... by 7 The Ghurka 8lago over Marauder by 14 We Hang Lett over 5 Gophero Who can Find a Hole by7 Staff Infection Plus a Vlrua over 5 StamMe lnmatoe of a Sexual Prieon by 19 
Lyona 12 JFK, . over Bun Naked & the Moon Sholl by 11 Dick Proaen & the Get Freeh Crew over Bink by 14 She can't WroeUe But You Should See Her Box over Wedge by 11 Revenge Factot Turna a Cool Breeze over We Come In Colora by 11 
Frtdlly'a.....,lta ''-n1 Panic State over Why? Why? Why? by 9 The Manhattan Jaaper Tranafero over 5 Guyo Who Couldn't Win the . by12 AllauH and Bllttery with the Intent over Oozing Puatuala by 19 The Morning StiHioe Reach New HeighII over That'a Immotal by 11 
''-"2 
We Hate the World over South Dining Hal Ra\11, 22­20 We Would Have Called You Bilek But You Didn't .. over Penla Envy, 24·22 Nightmare on Wayne St. over He Can't Do That, 11'1 Illegal! by 13 The Underdoga over Quit Pulling My Pljote 16 
''-"' 
Revenge of the Bun-faced Sea P1go over Uquld Pleaaure by 6 Fair Game over Knighll of the Rountl;)all by 5 Tylenol, Chalenger & 3 Other over Faceleu Ec­toplaama From Blsyond by 13 5 Guya With Good Mcvea But No Penetration over The Pat Greene Team by 5 

Observer completes sports staff 
The Observer sportsdepartment has completed its staff for the 1986­87 publishing year. 
Marty Burns, a sophomore from Chicago, Ill., will continue in his position as assistant sports editor. Burns, who is enrolled in the College of Arts & Letters, has written for the Observer since his freshman year and has been a sports copy editor before being named an assistant in Oct., 1985. 
Marty Strasen has also been named an assistant sports editor. A freshman from Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario, Canada, Strasen has held the positions of sports writer and sports copy editor. 
The third assistant sports editor is Mike Szymanski, a sophomre from Soloq, Ohio. Szymanski, who is majoring in accounting, has previously been a sports writer as well as a sports copy editor. 

The  new  Saint  Mary's  sports  
editor  is  Andrea  LaFreniere.  A  
junior  with  a  double  major  in  

English writing and English literature, LaFreniere has previous­ly been an Observer sports writer. 
These four will assist the sports 
Kempton will play Too Muck and Futch on Lyons court 12. 

: 
ment policies. 
All appointments are effective

• immediately.
!
•
• Bookstore
i continuedfrompoge 12
• 
: galloped to victory. Doug Ander­I sen shot 5-for-31 to lead Team
• 
Cheese. In other major games, two seed­

=·.· ed teams, Let's Go Crazy and the Shysters, won easily. Tom Lange shot 7-of-11 from the field for the
!• Shysters, and Bob Comfort grabb­ed eight rebounds. Wes Shorter 
and Carlton West Jed Let's Go Crazy shooting 7-of-9 and 4-of-5 • • from the field respectively. 
:;
.• 
Three major games are slated for today. On Stepanm Court one, last

• year's freshman sensation, 4 Fags:• and a Zahmbie, will face 5
: 
i 
Packages the Postman Can't Deliver II at 4:45. Last year's 
i 
champs, Fun Bunch Finale, will play Go No Go on Bookstore 
court 9 at 6:15p.m. Also at 6:15, the Embarassing Stains led by Tim

: 

----.....-··~·.-.~ ..--,-....._........_~.-·--·· --------..-.;;r.. .... 
Monday, April 7, 1986 -page 10 
blank the Irish into the seventh inn­Noelke hit the Badgers' second ing. Outside of a fourth inning homer of the day from Irish starter 

Irish SMC relay sets mark,
walk, the Irish went down in order Kevin Chenail. After Chenail gotcontinuedfrom page 12 until the seventh. one out, Gallo played musical pit­and a third innings as it went to Watzke came in to pitch the fifth chers in the inning. Mike Harmon 

offsets team's finish 
assault the 7-1 deficit. inning and served up three singles came in to give up the second run of The Irish battled back to a 7-5 to Badger hitters to load the bases. the inning, but Gallo trotted out determining factor in the Belles,
Andrea LaFreniere 
score at the end of the six innings Gallo decided that Watzke had had againt to bring in Brad Cross, who last place finish. 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
with the help of some sloppy enough and signaled for righthand­got the final out. "We didn't take everyone with Wisconsin play. But the sixth inn­ed reliever John Gleeson. Gleeson's In the bottom of the same inning, The Saint Mary's 1600-meter us," she said. "A lot of the girls ing ended when Rich Vanthournout third pitch to Wisconsin's Scott the Irish exploded for five runs. relay team set a new school record have illnesses, and some weren't was caught stealing after he walked Cepicky was a fat fastball, and the Pesavento smacked a two-run dou­for track on Saturday at the Man­back yet from break. That could with two out. first baseman for the Badgers pro­ble, followed quickly by Shields, chester College Invitational, a have made a difference for us." 
The Badgers would tack on two mptly responded by blasting the who hit a two-run single. Scott highly competitive meet in which Other strong finishers for the Belles more runs in the top of the seventh. pitch over the fence in center. Rogers picked up Loughran, who ten schools participated. include junior Mariclaire Driscoll, Sacchini entered the seventh and The Irish entered the seventh inn­hit a triple down the right field line. The team of senior Mary Lu­who ran the 10,000-meter race in surrendered a single, at which point ing facing a 9-6 score, but things Cross recorded the save, coming neen, sophomore Cathy Kennedy 45:33 to capture sixth place, and Gallo replaced him with Brad looked hopeful when Rich Van­in to give up a run in the seventh and freshmen Lora Gill and Rice, who ran the 800-meter race in Cross. The Badgers strung together thournout and Tom Shields began but keeping the Badgers from tying Theresa Rice completed the race 2:28.8 to finish in fourth place. two well-hit doubles, and all of a the inning by reaching base. Ken the game, ending in an 8-7 Irish with a time of 4:32.6. The 400-meter relay team placed sudden it was 9-5. Soos, who would wind up with 5 win. The record finish by the four at the meet, as well. Sophomore 
Scott Rogers responded in the RBis on the game, knocked in Van­The final game of the series was was the highlight of the meet for Stephanie Duke and freshmen bottom of the seventh inning with a tournout with a one-out base hit. perhaps the most tense of the four. the Belles, who finished in a diasp­Missy Bailey, Kelly O'Brien and leadoff homerun, but that was all Rosplock again came in to get The lead changed hands four times pointing tenth place at the competi­Gill finished in sixth place with a the Irish could muster as Badger the final two outs for the Badgers, in the game, and after starter Erik tion. time of 0:56.2. fireballer Jim Rosplock came in to taking the second game 9-7. Madsen was knocked out in the Several members of the team The Belles' next competition is shut down the Irish and record the In the first game yesterday, it ws third, the Irish relievers came in to were not able to attend the meet, on Tuesday at Goshen College with save. the Badgers who took the early shut down the Badgers. Once again. and, according to Head Coach Defiance College. The meet is 
Saturday's second game looked lead on Craig Brown's two-run it was Cross who came in to get the Jean Kerich, this may have been a scheduled to begin at 3:30p.m. 
much better for the Irish as they homer in the first inning. save, and the win went to Robert took a 6-0 lead after two innings. Chris Flynn cut the lead in half in Fitz, who hurled 4.1 innings, sur­Centerfielder Ken Soos, who went the third with a solo shot to left, rendering one run and three hits. 5-for-6 on Saturday, provided the and after Vanthournout doubled, The hot bat of Ken Soos has sur­big blow with a three-run homer in Sheilds hit a ground ball that prised Gallo. the second. The Badgers responded Cepicky couldn't "Kenny Soos may be the most in the top of the third with two handle, and the game was tied. hurt of anybody. He's had an ankle unearned runs off starter Mark Wisconsin came back with two problem since the beginning of the Watzke. Watzke would surrender more in the top of the fourth half season, but the last three weeks he's some of his early-inning control in to retake the lead, but a Mike been hitting the heck out of the the fourth, as the Badgers took ad­Moshier single in the bottom half ball." vantage of two walks and cut the of the same inning cut the lead to 4-The Irish have a much-needed lead to 6-5. 3. day off tomorrow before playing a 
Meanwhile, Badger lefthander The Badgers padded their lead in doubleheader Tuesday at Michigan Lance Painter settled down to t.he sixth when shortstop Mike State. 

ND lacrosse edges Wooster, 11-7, with determined 2nd-half effort 
By FRANK HUEMMER and two assists on the day, as he Despite having numerous oppor­Sports Writer assisted junior Jim Shields on a tunities to score in the first half, the goal to break the tie. best Notre Dame could do was go 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team Wooster promptly tied the score in tied at the half. Coach O'Leary pushed its record to 3-2 with a at five on a goal by Frank Winsor, singled out the following key per­hard-fought 11-7 victory over the but that is when the Irish came on formances. Fighting Scots of Wooster. strong. With Grote leading the way "Senior Mike Rice and junior Although the team controlled the by scoring the next two goals, the Wally Stack played well defensive­action early, it was not until the Irish went up to 7-5 and were never ly," remarked O'Leary. "At mid­third quarter that they really really challenged. The lead grew to field, junior Dave O'Neill and started rolling. 9-5 by the end of the quarter and sophomore John McNicholas 
"In the beginning of the game, ll-5 before Wooster finished out created a lot of openings. Attackers we did everything but score," said the scoring. Jim Shields, three goals and one Head Coach Rich O'Leary. "By the The game began with the Irish assist, Tom Grote and Joe third quarter we did the little things watching Wooster jump out to a 1-Franklin, one goal and three well and really came on strong." 0 lead on a goal by Christopher assists, really worked 
After coming out from a 4-4 Davis, who also contributed three "Overall, we felt we would be halftime deadlock, the Irish took assists in the losing effort. Shields further along in our development," complete control of the game by tied the contest at 5:08 with a goal said O'Leary. "We need a lot more outscoring the Scots 5-l. on an assist by Grote. The quarter work to build our confidence up Spearheading the attack was senior ended with Wooster holding a slim and we will try to do that this Tom Grote, who tallied four goals 2-1 advantage. weekend." 

••••••••••m..•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 

_IISOC:.co'sHair 


The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and 

Styling 

Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following 
positions: Viewpoint Copy 

Editor 

Questions about this position should be directed to Scott Bearby. Personal statements and resumes are due Monday, April 7 by 5:00PM. 

~~'0 .. Student Government-----. 
~,c&-'0 ASSISTANT TREASURER 
t--<l~ available in Treasurer's Office 
2nd Floor Lafortune 
Must presently be a 
Sophmore Accounting Major Applications due 
if you have any questions call
Friday, April 11 , 4:00 PM 
'Becca at 239-7417 
Thanks toyou... itworks... forALLOFUS 

• 



CITICORPOSERVICES INC 

Citicorp Services Inc., headquartered in Chicago, is the Citicorp subsidiary that sells an array of innovative payment products to Individuals, corporations and financial institutions around the world. 
We are currently recruiting for Management Associates with the skills, performance and motlvation for accelerated career growth within Citicorp. The Associate's past performance and perceived potential suggest that he/she will be qualified to move into a mid-level or senior management position within five years. 
The positions for which we are currently recruiting are within the areas of New Product Development, Marketing and Finane and offer excellent career potential with the worldwide leader in the financial services industry. 
If you are obtaining an MBA degree in 1986 with emphasis in Finance or Marketing and would like to discuss career opportunities with Citicorp, we will be on campus for inter­views on April15, 1986. 








~c:»cJIC3L~------------------------------------M-o-nd_a_y_,A_p_r_il_7,_I_98_6___Pa_g
__ell 


Bloom County Berke Breathed 
The Far Side Gary Larson 
@ 1986 Universal Press Synd1cate 

Zeto Kevin Walsh 


or COURSE', 
IN mE EARLY 
ROUN I:>S, PI.AY CAN BORDER ffij THt ROuG!-1 SlOE. 
~ 


"~4----.
t, i3.. · . X c -.,. 

---A;·'.o;.
*);
jll. 

ACROSS 1 Like tame horses 
5 Conscript 10 Pretense 14 Wash 15 Rascal 16 Kind of cat? 17 Heb. letter: 
var. 18 Neglected 20 Besides 22 Dapper 23 Saga 24 Gets upset 25 Blabbermouth 27 Place to sell 
hot dogs 28 --leaf 
cluster 29 Squared stone 31 Naples native: 
abbr. 35 Back of a boat 37 Not at home 38 Shaft of a 
feather 39 Being 40 Of the north 
wind 42 Parrot 43 Fountain 
treats 45 Overfond 
parents e.g. 47 Climbs 49 Ares 50 Infertile 51 Views 55 Inspected 57 Eye part 58 Charles' 
sister 59 Growing out 60 Robin's abode 61 Listen 62 Dingles 63 Gaelic 
DOWN 1 Shut noisily 2 Sign of a 
saint 3 Passes 4 Beat 5 Cattlemen 6 Wender 
7 Ripening  
factor  
8 Fitch for one  
9 US satellite  
10 Occasional  
11 Baloney  
12 Guinness and  
Templeton  
13 Ancient  
Iranian  
19 Overt  
21 City on the  
Allegheny  
24 Situation  
25 Pretense  
26 Exclamation  
27 Aspersions  
30 Shouts of  
derision  41 Esteems  51 White House  
32 Assumes  44 Away from  office  
control  the wind  52 Baseballer  
33 Mimic  46 Group of three  Rose  
34 Grasslands  47 River to the  53 Headland  
36 Commented  Rhone  54 Surfeit  
38 US painter  48 Beldam  56"-clear  
40 Mixed  50 Nonsense  day ... "  

Campus 

*12 p.m. -Lecture, "The Ethics of Trade Regulation," the Honorable Terry Calvani, Federal Trade Commission, Law School Stu­dent Lounge, Sponsored by the Thomas J. White Center on Law and Government *12 p.m. -Discussion, "The White Train ­Nuclear Destruction," Shelley Douglass, Fellowship of Reconciliation, Center for Social Concerns Coffeehouse, Sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns *3:30p.m.-Computing Minicourse, LOTUS l-2-3, Room 104 Computing Center *4 p.m. -Lecture, "The Emergent South African Trade Union Movement: A Critical Assessment of Its Collision with the Apartheid State and Business," Rev. Buti Tlhagale, Educational Opportunities Council for Black Africans, Soweto, South Africa, Room 105 Law School, Sponsored by the Kellogg In­stitute *4 p.m. -Lecture, "Towards a Habitable Ci­ty," Jeff Qibney and Karen Kiemnec, South Bend Heritage Foundation and Historical Preservation Commission, Haggar Hall, Sponsored by the Notre Dame American In­stitute of Architecture Students 

"Hey, Bob wants In-does anyone know how to work this thing?" 
*7 p.m.-Music, poetry, film, "Latin America: A Cultural Approach," Center for Social Con­cerns Coffeehouse, Sponsored by Student Organization for Latin America 
•7 p.m. -Movie, "Blade Runner," Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by the Monday Night Film Series I *7:30 p.m. -Discussion, "Combining Faith & Politics," Gov. John Gilligan, Pasquerilla East Chapel Lounge, Sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns 
*7:30 p.m. -Meeting, Rally Against Starva­tion, Center for Social Concerns 
•s 
p.m. -Wrestlemania II-ACC Closed Cir­cuit TV, ACC Arena, Tickets $9 and $15 *8:15 p.m. -Lecture, "From Genes to Neurons," Dr. Marshall Nirenberg, National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, Memorial Lounge Auditorium, Sponsored by the John 

A. 
Lynch Lecture in Biochemistry, Biophysics, and Molecular Biology Program *9:15 p.m. -Movie, "Investigation of a Citizen Above Suspicion," Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by the Monday Night Film Series II 


Dinner Menus  
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Beef Top Round  Roast Beef with Cornbread Dressing  
Sweet & Sour Chicken  Beef & Bean Burrito with Enchilada Sauce  
Swiss Cheese Quiche  Vegetarian Chow Mein  
Hot Dog with Coney Sauce  Ham & Cheese Omelets  

Help the 


Focus On ~ America's 
March of Dimes 

Fut
~--::;...-­
Fight Birth Defects 

*CASH PRIZES!
*A position tn the Saturday showcase 
P.eiformance *A chance to play with MAX WEINBERG 
Sponsored by the Student Activities Board 
r-----~------------------~~ -~ -~---~ 
Monday, April 7, 1986 -page 12



Seorts 
B~okstore XV 1st round begins with some skill but much more fun 
By MICHAEL KEEGAN itself trailing ll-2 at the half, Paint gained recognition which was Sports Writer Marauder planned to play a series their only goal. of "weird, hypnotizing" songs to "Each year we try to come up 
It was a weekend of fast breaks, throw off the strong play of its op­with some new gimic," said Brandl. layups, outside shots and crisp ponents. But a torrential downplay "Last year we were the 5 Guys passes as Bookstore Basketball XV forced the team to pack up its Who Wore Pantyhose Over the began with preliminary games on equipment early. Without its Head. What we hope to do is gain Friday and Saturday and the open­music, Marauder was lost as Sean recognition and a subsequent cult ing of the first round yesterday. O'Brien shot 9-of-14 from the field following . If we can't dazzle them AJI games combined basketball in leading the Ghurka Bags to a 21-with out basketball, we baffle them skill, or lack of it, with a general at­7 victory. with our gimic.". titude for fun. Probably the most interesting During the game, Brandle was the 
In the preliminary game between basketball was played yesterday. victim of a vicious steal attempt We Never Practiced Even Once and 
that shattered his finger. Not wan­Spewed Chunky and the ting to throw the game away, Technicolor Yawns, Cathy Hill led Brandl quickly ran off the court
Bookstore
her team in a blazing hot shooting and had his dislocated finger performance. We Never Practiced Basketball relocated. Brandl saw the game as Even Once lost the game 21-0 while a war. 
XV
shooting 0-for-57 from the field/ "At the end of the game, What Hill shot a hot 0-for-34 in leading The F was covered with paint," said her team. During the game, Brandl. "These guys looked as W.N.P.E.O. game a new meaning In what can be labeled. only as a though they had been in a war. to the dunk shot and the drive. collossal miss-match, the Lee's Everyone was hacking each other 
W.N.P.E.O. placed a pail of BBQ Roundhouse led by Jim Dolan during the game, and, as a result, water underneath the basket. played The Executives. The Ex­they wound up with paint all over While making a strong move to the ecutives fielded a team which con­themselves. Too bad." basket, a player from this team sisted of four girls and one guy In a ridiculously long battle, dunked her head in the pail of which managed to score only 6 Team Cheese outdistanced We Eat water and proceeded to take the baskets in the losing effort. Chuck Meat on Fridays by a score of 21­shot. This attempted dunk shot was Lennon, the Executive Director of 16. The teams were going for the blocked by the rim. Nice try. In the Alumni Association, shot 4-of-worst shooting percentage of the addition, W.N.E.P.O. carried car 5 from the field in the winning ef­tournament award. Team Cheese doors onto the court and proceeded fort. shot 21-of-104 while We Eat Meat to drive down the lane. This at­Easily the most colorful team of on Fridays shot 16-of-81 for a com­tempt to score also failed as did the the day was 5 Guys Who Wear bined 37-of-185 shooting perfor­other national recognized speed Body Paint. Sporting the new spr­mance. This highly exciting game limit, 55, shots. ing fashion line, the team players dragged on for over an hour, as 
In another preliminary game were painted black, blue, orange, each team tried its best to throw the between the Ghurka Bags and white and green. The team was game. Team Cheese eventually Players from Spuds and Woody and the Peekers fight for a re­Marauder, Marauder tried a com­defeated easily by What the F, 21-decided enough was enough and bound, as Bookstore XV got underway this weekend with 
bination of high amps and sloppy -8, but Rudy Brandl, painted white, 
preliminary and first round games. Mike Keegan has the weekend's 
see BOOKSTORE, page 9

baksetball to no avail. Finding believes 5 Guys Who Wear Body highlight's in his story at left. 

Second spring scrimmage is 'loud', not pretty 
By MARTY STRASEN probably the loudest day since I've times more than the opposition, beginning from the 25-yard line. Defense dominated the next two Assistant Sports Editor been here. and that's the most discouraging Junior Steve Beuerlein completed drives as freshman Lippincott and "The defensive line had some really thing. Every time you looked up his first four passes and looked Taylor plunged through the defense 
It certainly wasn't pretty, but the loud hits. I thought hitting, and the there was a penalty, and that's no sharp in his opening drive, which for a two-yard score. purpose of spring football is not to linebackers carried their pads very fun. It's hard to get consistency this culminated when sophomore juniors Kleine and Banks made marvel at flawless performances. well." earlv." receiver Tim Brown snared a some impressive hits to stop backs 
And while a few players had their But Holtz was not pleased with 
sideline pass and shook off a pair for losses. The defensive unit used moments in the Notre Dame foot­at least on aspect of the scrimmage Spring of defenders with some quick in the third and fourth drives ap­ball team's second scrimmage of -penalties. Yellow flags were all moves for a 39-yard touchdown. peared much more effective than the spring season on Saturday, over the muddy field inside Notre Football Sophomore quarterback Terry the initial unit, as even Andrysiak, there were no flawless perfor­Dame Stadium as both the offen­Andrysiak then steeped in and who completed his first · seven
'86 

mances to be seen. For the most sive and defensive units were guilty found senior split end Milt Jackson passes of the day, was not able to 
part, however, Irish head coach of a number of infractions. open in the seam for a 38-yark move the ball over the soalline. Lou Holtz was pleased with what "Especially on offense, we've No score was kept in the scrim­gain. That pass set the tone for An­"Beuerlein and Andrysiak both he saw. been taking twice as many penalties mage, as each quarterback was drysiak's drive, ~as Jackson and did a good job," said Holtz. 
" I saw some good things out as the opposition is going to take," given the opportunity to drive one Brown continued to pull down see PRACTICE, page 8ther today." said Holtz. "This was Holtz said. ''Today it was about 17 of the offensive units downfield passes and junior jullback Pernell 
Irish gain series split after dropping 1st pair 
By TERRY LYNCH "Tom Shields, even though not Sports Writer 100 percent, means so much to this after four years of playing really 
The Irish baseball team split its rubs off on everybody. just his four-game series over the weekend presence on the field means a lot to with Wisconsin, as the Badgers the team." took Saturday's doubleheader and Things did not start well for the the Irish swept yesterday's games at Irish on Saturday, as onlookers Jake Kline field. With the split, the would witness leads in both games Irish raised their record to 12-11. quickly disappear. In the first 
Keying the Irish weekend was the game, the Irish jumped out to a return of co-captain Tom Shields to quick l-0 lead with a pair of singles the Irish lineup. Shields, who was after Pat Pesavento was hit by a out for the majority of the early­pitch from Badger righthander Tim season action with an injured Roman. shoulder, returned in full-force yesterday, driving in the game­The Badgers would later bat winning run in a hotly-contested se­around in the third inning and cond game in the bottom of the six­score seven runs, knocking Irish th. Shields was unstoppable in the starter Steve Powell out of the box 
second game, going 4-for-4 at the early. Dan Sacchini came on in 


Irish outfielder John Loughran takes a cut dur­Saturday but came back to sweep the Badgers plate, scoring two runs, stealing a relief of Powell, giving the team 3 ing this weekend's jour-game series with Wiscon­yesterday. Terry Lynch has details in his story at base and driving in three of seven • 
see IRISH, page 10
sin. The Irish dropped both ends ofa doubleheader right. runs for the Irish in a 7-6 win. 






