
-.-----------~-----­
-----------~~--~--~-------~-~-~-,...,.....~-~---------·---------­
Father-daughter weekend -page 6 
VOL. XXI, NO. 29 

Missiles on Kiel, ND acquitted 
burning sub 

not in danger in accident lawsuit 
By BUD LUEPKE in the accident. According to
of exploding 
Copy Editor court records Kovalcik said he is dependent upon ambulatory Associated Press Former Irish quarterback Blair aids because of the injuries in­
Kiel and the University of Notre meted by the accident. 
WASHINGTON -rhe fire aboard Dame were granted a summary Kovalcik filed suit against Kiel a Soviet submarine could not judgment in their favor last week for negligent operation of a have triggered a nuclear explo­in a lawsuit filed against them motor vehicle and against the sion or even a big Chernobyl-like for injuries suffered in a traffic University for negligent mainte­release of radioactivity, Ameri­accident. nance and construction of an in­can experts said Sunday. Superior Court Judge William tersection. Kovalcik claimed his 
The Soviet crew aboard the Whitman handed down the deci­view of the intersection and its submarine apparently managed sion ending the lawsuit in which stop-sign were obstructed by to put out the fire that killed three former Notre Dame law student, foliage, according to court of their mates Friday, and the William Kovalcik was seeking records. vessel began limping across the $ 150,000 from the University Kovalcik's wife, MargaretAtlantic toward Europe Sunday, and Kiel. 
Hayes, was also a plaintiff in the first on its own power and then The dispute dates backs to suit seeking retribution for loss under tow from a Soviet mer­Aug. 24, 1983 when a bike rid­of her husband's security, soci­chant ship. den by Kovalcik, now an attorney ety and companionship. 
Ray Pollock, an authority on in Johnstown, Pa., collided with Court records show that Kiel the nuclear submarines with Kiel's car. Court records say Kiel claimed he came to a full stop Georgetown University's Center was northbound on Lake Road at the intersection and that 
for Strategic and International at the time of the accident and Kovalcik rode into the side of his 
Studies, said, "I would think the was returning to his residence car. Kovalcik said in the court probability of a nuclear detona­after a practice. Kovalcik was records that he could not recall tion coming out of this is essen­bicycling on a concrete path on whether he had come to a full 
tially zero." the Notre Dame campus and col­stop before the intersection but Retired U.S. Rear Admiral Gene lided with Kiel near the Lake that Kiel drove into him when his 
R. LaRocque, director of the Cen­Road -Saint Mary's Road intersec­bicycle was halfway in front of ter for Defense Information, tion. Kiel's car. said, 'There is no danger of a Kovalcik broke his left leg and Whitman ruled in accordance 
suffered a cerebral concussion see SUB, page 4 and muscle and nerve damage see KIEL, page 4 
Real words of Christ debated at semi-annual seminar 
By JULIE DARNELL cally authentic and which were scholars will join members of the Roman Catholics, Methodists style arguments. "If a saying News Staff placed in his mouth by gospel theology department, including and Baptists are some of the presupposes something that was writers and fhe early Church. Adela Collins, Josephine Ford, denominations represented at only a reality after the death of The question "What did Jesus A critical approach to the New William Peterson, John Collins this ecumenical seminar, accor­Jesus -if it presupposes Church really say?" is being debated by Testament in this regard was in­and Harold Attridge, to deter­ding to Collins. organization -then it would seem scholars from the Westar In­troduced by the founder and mine which sayings go back to Collins said, "Each scholar and like that it's a saying that arose stitute and members of the Notre director of the Jesus Seminar, an actual historical Jesus and each reader of the New Testa­in the early Church," said Collins. Dame faculty at the fourth semi­Robert Funk, said Adela Collins, which are merely inventions of ment has some picture of what During the meetings, partici­annual Jesus seminar. Meetings a theology professor at Notre the early Church. · Jesus was like, and that in­pants will discuss a mail ballot are taking place at the Center for Dame. Participants of the meeting at fluences what you're willing to they took prior to the seminar on Continuing Education Oct. 4-7. Collins said Funk believes that Notre Dame will concentrate on consider as going back to Jesus the historical authenticity of the 
The Jesus Seminar is a group most people today take a fun­thirty-one of the "Kingdom and what you would not be will­"Kingdom sayings." Scholars of over 1 I 0 New Testament damentalist or traditionalist ap­sayings" found in the synoptic ing to consider." Members of the rated each of the thirty-one scholars who have embarked on proach to the New Testament Gospel of Mark from "Q", a Jesus seminar, however, hope to sayings with a code based on the a I 0-year project to determine and the life of Jesus. The Jesus hypothetical source of sayings reach a consensus among the colors red, pink, gray and black. which of the roughly five Seminar offers a new method for also believed to have been used diverse opinions. A red vote would indicate the hundred New Testament sayings biblical interpretation. by Matthew and Luke, and in the Many conclusions will be attributed to Jesus are histori-About thirty New Testament Apocryphal Gospel of Thomas. based on historical and literary-see JESUS, page 4 
Festival showcases foreign cultures 
By JENNIFER GRONER clubs will be highlighted at the p.m. in Washington Hall. The News Staff Fieldhouse Mall. movie, "Running Brave," the In addition to these events story of Billy Mills' life, will be 
The Multicultural Fall Festival, Fireside Chats in the Interna­shown Wednesday, Oct. 8 at 9 an event intended to showcase tional Student Organization p.m. in the Center for Social Con­various foreign cultures with a Lounge are planned. These chats cerns. focus on the international stu­will feature professors who have To enable students and faculty dents at Notre Dame, begins traveled in Europe, Latin members to become better ac­today and will continue through America, China, Africa, and the quainted, a faculty and student Saturday, Oct. 11. Middle East. "We are encourag­reception will be held in the Snite 
"The purpose of this event is ing students to participate in the Museum Oct. 8. Various works to increase the awareness of the Fireside Chats, because it pro­of art also will be exhibited at significant contribution of multi­vides students and faculty an ex­this time. culturalism here at Notre Dame. cellent opportunity to interact on The Taste of Nations gala Particularly since the Notre Dame a more informal level," Boykin celebration is the only event for community is comprised of so said. which an admission will be many diverse cultural back­Other activites will include a charged. The $2 charge is nec­grounds." said Lisa Boykin, the lecture given by Dr. George essary to offset the cost of the minority concerns commission­Feifer on Russian culture in food and entertainment which er, one of the organizers of the Washington Hall today at 7 p.m. will be provided. These will in­
The edge of wetness 
festival. in Washington Hall. Prior to this clude international cuisine and 
Ruben Adams, 16-months old, sits atop a cafeteria table
Each day there will be a lit­lecture, footage of Russian tele­music, African dancers, dance 
in a Red Cross evacuation shelter Thursday night in Guthrie,
hograph display in the Snite vision will be shown in the New contests, door prizes, and an Okla. The central Oklahoma community has been evacuated
Museum, a St. Francis Shoppe Orleans Room from 2 to 5 p.m. American music survey. The 
display in the library foyer, and Also planned is a lecture on life Taste ofNations will be held from for a second time this week as waters from Cottonwood 
a multi-cultural dinner in the as an American Indian to be 8 p.m. until I a.m., in Stepan Creek are expected to flood the town sometime early Friday 
dining halls. Also various ethnic given by Billy Mills Oct. I 0 at 8 Center. morning. See story inside. 
MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1986 

the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 



-------------~--_,...~·.,...---..,.--,. T---------~-~------------­
r 
Monday, October 6, 1986, -page 2
The Observer 

Low pay, low respect are rewards

In Brief 

fo.r self-sacrificing teachers 
Nancy Reagan took a tumble from the stage but was unhurt 
during a concert at the White House Sunday. As the audience gasped, Mrs. Reagan's chair fell from the stage into a flower box and then onto the carpeted floor. After learning she was unhurt the President said, "Honey, I told you to do that only if I didn't get any applause." -Associated Press 
Thomas Larkin, Jr., managing director of Trust Company of the West in Los Angeles, has been appointed to Notre Dame's Advisory Council for the College of Business Admin­istration by FatherTheodore Hesburgh, University president. Larkin, a 1961 Notre Dame graduate, has been in investment management for 23 years and is on the advisory council for the Association of Investment Management Sales Executives. -The Observer 
Professor Astrik Gabriel, professor emeritus in the Medieval Institute, gave an address in German at the Univer­sity of Vienna in September. The address, "International Re­lations between the University of Vienna and Paris during Medieval and Renaissance·Periods," was given as part of an international congress opened by the Chancellor of the Republic of Austria. -The Observer 

Of Interest 
All CAPP students are invited to the CAPPIDPMA student chapter meeting which will be held tonight at 7 in the Memorial Library auditorium. Speaking will be Steve Nagengast of Cronie-Chizek and Co. Ifstudents plan to attend, they should call Dan Bender at 288-5599 or the Social Science Training Lab. -The Observer 
"The People's Church: From Established State Church to Voluntary Free Church: The Transformation of Roman Cat-· holicism in the United States" will be discussed Tuesday at 4 p.m. in the Memorial Library lounge. Professor Robert Kress, of the University of San Diego, will speak at the American Catholic Studies Seminar, which is sponsored by the Charles and Margaret Hall Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism. -The Observer 
The Third Annual Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Charity Ball for Ethiopia organizers are accepting applications for students interested in serving on committees. Available until Friday, the applications are in the Student Activites office on the third floor of Lafortune. For more information about last year's ball, contact Dan Harrison at 283-3476. -The.Observer 
Holy Cross Associates -Chile, a two-and-one-half year post graduate service program, is accepting applications until No­vember 7 at the Center for Social Concerns and the Associates Office at the Moreau Seminary. For more information, call or see Mary Ann Roemer, Center for Social Concerns, at 239­7949, or Jane Pitz, Associates Office, at 2.39-5521. -The Ob­server 
The Respect Life mass and dinner, sponsored by NOOMC Right to Life, has been rescheduled for Dec. 6 because of the Alabama game. Bishop D'Arcy will say mass, and Prof. Douglas Kmiec, assistant deputy attorney general, will be the speaker. Tickets must be purchased in advance and will be available in the dining hall from Nov. 24-28. -The Observer 

Weather 

Back to reality: partly sunny and cold today with highs in the middle to upper 50s. The cold will continue into the night with clear skies and lows around 40. Tuesday it will be mostly sunny and a little warmer with highs in the in the middle 60s. 


As the year continues, an increasingly frequent question asked of seniors is "Who are you i_nter­viewing with and what do you plan to do after graduation?" 
Being an English major, I usually hear the "Are you going to be a teacher?" variation of this ques­tion, delivered in tones ranging from slight in­credulity to open consolation. 
I used to react with rather fierce denial when asked this question; after all, I rather naively· believed I was going to set the world afire in a1 fast-paced and lucrative career. I certainly wasn't going to teach. 
Jl1y attitude, like the attitudes of those who sym­
pathetically questioned me, was not particularly 
surprising; it was merely a personal expression of 
the low-regard in which modern society holds 
teachers·and their profession. 
In my case, however, the circumstances are a 
little different than an uninvolved observer reflect­
ing a simple social more. My father is a teacher, 
and has been for the last 22 years. 
I used to wonder what could compel a person 
to endure low wages, poor working conditions, 
little chance for professional advancement and 
the lowjob status which a success-oriented society 
has attached to the teaching profession. 
In a recent national survey, a former teacher 
driven from her profession because of financial 
considerations noted, "People view teaching as ·a 
no-talent no-challenge occupation," and my ob­
servations while growing up yalidate this state­
ment. 

I remember the anger and confusion I felt when 
a friend's father casually remarked "Those who 
can, do; those who can't teach." I can still vividly 
picture the cold fall days when my father and his 
colleagues were forced to walk a picket line in 
order to achieve the raises which other profes­
sionals automatically received. And I remember 
the contempt and often cruelty which permeated 
popular opinion of teachers during these strikes. 
According to the report of the Carnegie Task 
Force on Teaching as a Profession, "average 
teacher pay, which has increased by 2.3 percent 
over the past three years, now stands at $25, 240." 
Hardly a lucrative salary, and one which most 
teachers must augment with income from part­
time jobs. My father, for example, used to tune 
pianos and play in a band to offset his low wages. 
This low salary is ironic when one considers the 
multi-faceted duties society expects teachers to 
perform. Teachers must not only be educators, 
but psychologists, disciplinarians, counselors and 
role-models. They receive constant criticism for 
not performing these multi-faceted duties and are 
blamed for the developmental and social difficul­
ties of many of the nation's children. Society's tax 
aversion, however, makes a true commitment to 
upgrading salaries and working conditions hypot­
hetical at best. 

Yet my father, and thousands like him, continue to teach. Clearly, their motivations are beyond the realm of monetary and social success. They are 
Mary Heilmann 

. Assistant News Editor 


compelled to teach by a sincere commitment to education. 
Henry Brooks Adams wrote "A teacher affects eternity; he can never tell where his influence stops." This idea that a teacher can shape the future is not mere rhetoric; next to parents and family, teachers are probably the most influential figures in a person's life. I remember the English teacher who introduced me to Shakespeare's ver­bal mastery, the history teacher who made chronological and often dull texts come alive for me, the physics teacher who patiently explained to me the vagaries of scientific laws, trying to touch some part of my hopelessly unscientific mind. 
All of these people had a profound effect on my life, enhancing it through the benefit of their knowledge and experience, shaping it by unearth· ing untapped talents and potentials. Perhaps it is this satisfaction in helping others realize their goals that causes teachers to sacrifice some of their own ambition and continue in an socially­denigrated profession. 
Now when people ask me if I want to teach, my "no" answer is no longer based on some mis­guided notion that "bigger" opportunities await me, but on the practical admission that I don't have the dedication and selnessness that the teaching profession requires and respect for my father and the many others that do. 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 



~Goclfatht:r•s Pizza~ 
Find one. Its worth it.  ™  
SUNDAY & MONDAY SPECIALS  
('1-~IP- A.I\'D S.4 \-'1~ '·  
I  MEDIUM THIN CRUST PIZZA WITH ONE  I  
I  TOPPING PLUS EXTRA CHEESE PLUS A  I  
I  TWO LITER BOTTLE OF COKE  I  
I  $5.25 plus tax & delive.y  Godfatha 's  I  
I •  0... roupon per pW.. at partidpaliDfl loeatioou. Not vahd in coaabinalioa with uy otlw:r oll'er. Offer expires 10/19/86  ~Pizza. --­\.,;'g 'find ~_ It 5 worth u.  I I  

~--------------------~ 
We Deliver to a Limited Area
Goclfathcr6s
------Piz 
52920 US 31 North
~ za.
.=-277-5880 South Bend, IN 

Design Editor . ...... Melissa Warnke Design Assistant ...... Tom Schiesser Typesetters .......... Chris Reardon News Editor ............. Jim Riley Copy Editor. ........... Chris Julka Sports Copy Editor .... Marty Strasen 
Accent Copy Editor . ..... Lisa Young Accent Layout . ..... Melinda Murphy Typists ............... Colleen Foy ND Day Editor. ...... Laurine Megna AdDesign . ............ Fred Nelson Photogrpaher . ...... Martha Oldford 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer Monday, October 6, 1986, -page 3 


Career Day to feature 30 careers 
By GREG LUCAS program is an informal chance It is also important to remem­News StaFF for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's ber the business people at students to discuss career op­Career Day are not there to rep­
Students will have a chance to portunities with people from the resent their companies, so much speak with representatives from business world. as to give students better insight 30 careers at the Arts and Letters Although the program is de­and perspective into the career Career Day, taking place Tues­signed primarily for upperclas­in general, said Reynolds. day in the lower level of the Cen­smen in the College of Arts and ter for Continuing Education Letters, all interested students A large part of the success of from 12 p.m. to 4 p.m. are encouraged to come, said Career Day could be attributed 
Careers such as advertising. Reynolds. Career Day usually the amount of time that is put communications, health care, in­does not drawa large percentage into planning it. Reynolds said surance, para-legal services and of underclassmen, as most he has to begin the general plan­small business ownership will be freshmen are uncertain of their ning of next year's program on represented. majorand are "not thinking three the day after graduation. 
"Career Day provides students and a half years down the road," with a perfect opportunity, in one said Reynolds. In the eight years since the afternoon, to get a wide range "The most important thing is origin of the program, Career of information about a variety of not to be apprehensive to go up Day has typically attracted about careers," said Associate Director and talk to someone," Reynolds 400 students per year. Reynolds of Career and Placement Ser­said. Students who go to Career reported companies and busi­vices Paul Reynolds. Day will be given a map of the ness people also have expressed 
Most career representives also layout of the booths and a list of strong enthusiasm for the pro­
will distribute literature about the potential questions that could be gram. 
career to interested students. asked. "The sheet of questions Reynolds said he always 
Reynolds, who originated and is meant to be used as a receives positive comments 
has coordinated the program for guideline to help students avoid from the career people about the 
eight years, said, "This is not a simply wandering through," said attitudes of the students who at­
recruiting effort." He said the Reynolds. tend. 
Rivers receding after Midwest flooding 
homa and Illinois, where an es­There was no way to estimate timated 45,000 people were damage in Missouri, said Steve Rivers slowly receded Sunday forced from their homes over the Finefrock, a state Civil Defense from record flood crests in Okla-past week, and more were official, but U.S. rep. James R. 
evacuated in parts of Missouri. jones estimated damage in his 
Water crested during the night district at $140 million. at one Oklahoma city at a record 18 feet above flood stage, Finefrock said an estimated leaving snakes swimming for 30,000 people had left their safety, and a levee break flooded homes at one time or another a Missouri town. over the past week because of
Come Reach For 
Little or no rain fell Sunday flooding. About 3,800 families or across the region, which got up 15,000 people had sought shel­to 2 feet in the past week, but ter in Illinois, a state public almost 12 inches of rain fell in health spokesman said Satur­24 hours in Texas, causing scat­day. Hundreds more fled their




0 Stars. 
tered flooding around the west­homes in Missouri, and Kansas ern town of McCamey. A<ljutant General Ralph Tice es­Damage in Illinois was esti­timated I,500 to 2, 000 had 
mated at $34 million Saturday. evacuated in his state. 
FAMILY HAIRCARE SAVINGS! 
r------·COUPON SAVINGS·---.;_--. 
:S20FF ADULT CUT : 
I Reg. $8 MasterCuts : 
l--------------~~-,
:$20FF ADULT CUT I 

I MasterCuts I
I Reg. $8 famly haircuttErs I 
t-----------------~-1 
:S2Qf.f....KID~Ls : 
I Reg. $6, Now $4 famly hc*t:uttas I 
~-~----------------~ 


I 
MasterCuts 
family haircuttss 
University Park Mall 2n-3nO 



The Observer Monday, October 6, 1986, -page 4 
Sub 
continued/rom page 1 
nuclear explosion.... It would be well nigh impossible." 
James Bush, a retired Polaris submarine captain who is LaRocque's associate director at the center, said: "there is no dan­ger of a nuclear weapons explo­sion on board. There is certainly a danger of a rupture of the nu­clear reactor." 
But if that happened, the sub would sink, he added, and "in the bottom of the ocean and I 5, 000 feet of water ... you would just not have a dangerous situation." 
The Soviet Yankee class sub­marines are nuclear powered and designed to carry up to 16 missiles with nuclear warheads that can strike targets up to 1,800 miles away. The troubled sub was part of a fleet of Soviet subs that patrol off the U.S. 

Kiel 
continuedfrom page 1 
with state law governing contrib­utory negligence. State law says that if a defendant can show the plaintiff's negligence to be a cause for the injuries incurred by the plaintiff, the defendant is not 

Jesus 
continuedfrom page 1 
opm1on that the quotation definitely goes back to a histori­cal Jesus, whereas a black vote would signify a conclusion that the passage, although attributed to Jesus, is in fact only an inven­tion of the early Church. Follow­
ing the  discussions,  a  second  
poll will be taken.  
The  thirty-one  "Kingdom  

sayings" make up a small part of the nearly five hundred sayings attributed to Jesus in the New Testament. At the conclusion of 

OFFICE OF 

u~~l 

All students are invited to take part 
in a Bible study sharing which will begin Monday, Oct. 6 in Lewis Hall Chapel at 8:00 p.m. 
Call Kristen Strougal at 283-4173 orFr. D'Alonzo at 239-5577 or239-6919. 

~~--~~----.......~--...,..._--"=~.. 


COMINGI H 
OCTOBER~ 


,~BREAK~~~ 
~ DOITALU 
~ 

I JieCondltlon In Booth 
•Tan 
In Beds 

• 
Relax on Massage Bed 



Call277-7026 
J.M.S. PLAZA 
4609Grape Road




1M...~ 
Mishawaka 

coast, poised to attack, just as 
American subs with missiles 
keep a similar watch off the So­
viet Union. 
But the U.S. submarines since 

1960 have carried solid fuel mis­
siles -a propellant less volatile 
than the liquid fuel that experts 
say most of the Soviet missiles 
still employ. 
Pollock said that if that liquid fuel got mixed with oxidizers on the sub, "then they could have a 
jim-dandy fire," even under water. Such an all-encompassing fire could spew radioactive ma­terials, but not on the magnitude of the damaged Soviet reactor of Chernobyl, he said. 
Secretary of State George Shultz, asked on ABC TV's "This Week With David Brinkley" if one of the nuclear missiles targeted on the United States could be ac· cidentally triggered, replied, ''Ac­cording to our experts, the an­swer is no." 
responsible for those injuries. 
Because Whitman judged that Kovalcik failed to stop at a stop­sign and that this constituted a negligent violation of a traffic statute, he ruled in favor of Kiel and the University. 
Kiel graduated from Notre Dame in I 984 and now plays professional football for the In­dianapolis Colts. 
the Jesus Seminar participants hope to reach a consensus on these sayings according to the color key system, Collins said. 
In addition the Jesus Seminar will be working toward reaching a consensus on all five hundred ofJesus' sayings. At the comple­tion of the project, scholars hope to publish a color-coded edition of the New Testament which would distinguish between those sayings which are decidedly aut­hentic, those which are probably authentic, and those which are believed to be simply inventions of early Church writers and teachers. 

Pope attacks divorce, abortion 
Associated Press 
LYON, France -Pope John Paul II pursued his attacks on abortion and divorce during a rural Mass on Sunday, calling them signs of sickness in so­ciety, but his message evoked a tepid response from the au­dience. 
On his second day ofa four­day visit to France, the leader of the world's 800 million Roman Catholics was sur­rounded by heavy security as he traversed the countryside before returning to Lyon late Sunday. 
Police carefully scrutinized the crowds at the Mass in the Burgundy town of Paray-Le­Monial and during an earlier visit to a small ecumenical community called Taize. 
At Taize, pathways used for 
SENIORS: 
with 
contemplative walks were thick with gendarmes. A bel­ltower was converted into a watchtower with sharpshooters at the ready. Security men peered out from neighboring corn fields and cow pastures. 
John Paul said at the Mass that rising abortion and divorce rates were signs that modern civilization is devel­oping a "heart of stone." 
Speaking in an open field of green grass before an esti­mated crowd of I 00,000 people waving colored scarves, the pope urged Cat­holics to work at conserving "a heart of flesh, a heart that has a human sensibility and a heart that lets itself be con­quered by the Holy Spirit." 
He said the increasing num­ber of broken families and abortions were "signs ofa real and true sickness that hits at people, couples, children and society itself." 
He noted that economic conditions, influences of soci­ety, uncertainty about the fu­ture and other reasons are put forward as explanations, but said "this cannot ... justify that a fundamental good be abandoned, that of the stable unity of the family." 
There was polite applause as the pope spoke out against ab0rtion, but the overall response seemed subdued. 
Though 80 percent of the French people consider them­selves Catholic, polls indicate a steady erosion in the num­ber who attend Mass regularly and who support the pope's positions on moral issues, particularly sexual matters. 

A TWO-YEAR POST-GRADUATE COMMITMENT FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT: 
MARY ANN ROEMER  JANE PITZ  
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS  HCA OFFICE-MOREAU  
APPL/CA TION DEADLINE: NOV. 7  

***********.... ~*********** 
iC 
iC 
* 
~ 
* 

·~ * ~ 
* 

-~ * -~ 
* 
·~ 
*
* 

iC ~ FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1986 8:00pm * ~ Morris Civic Auditorium : 

:***RESERVE TICKETS TODAY****
~ 
* 

~ Between Bam-4:30pm in the S.A.B. * iC front office 2nd floor LaFortune * iC orcal/239-7757or283-2146 * ~ 2nd balcony ticket plus free transportation : iC to and from the Morris Civic Auditorium * iC $14.00 * iC limited number available ~ 
Just ask yourself: 
How often does Broadway come to South Bend? 
Cah you afford not togo? 
********************* 
.-----*
* 
*~ * 
~ 

/ : 

"ie~~_O_J_•n__t______________Mo~nday_.oct-ober~6,1-986~,-pa~ges 
Healthy games can become dangerous obsessions 
We live in an obsessive culture. We want the best the most, the greatest and we are willing to sacrifice our health, our families and our bank rolls to achieve "the good life. " 
Carol Brown 
on second thought 
Gone is the casual jogger, the devoted family man, and the laid-back college stu­dent of yesteryear. Instead we have the fitness freak, the stressed workaholic ex­ecutive, and the overachieving study monster. 
The weekend jogger is now training for the marathon. What was once an in­vigorating romp along the beach has be­come a mad pursuit of endurance and stress fractures. Why are these emaciated, knob-kneed, drawn-faced sadomasochists running themselves into the ground? For health, of course. 
And what about the young women who are so obsessed with being thin that they are starving themselves. Why? Because being so thin you can see your bones leads to a successful, better life... right? 
Here is a classic: the workaholic father who has pushed his blood pressure to new heights. Now that is achievement. Maybe he is a little stressed now, butwhen he gets that new Porsche he will finally be happy, right? Oh, but remember he is doing it all to make a "better" life for his family. Tell that to his family when daddy misses Junior's birthday, and is too busy to realize his marriage is falling apart until mommy files for divorce. 
Then there is the college student who has learned all he knows about college life from books. So what if he's never seen a football game or been to an SYR; he has a 4.0 and an ulcer to prove it. 
In our obsessiveness we have actually created modern diseases. Stress and anorexia rate in the top ten. Maybe I missed the boat, but since when have self-denial and overwork become virtues? ("Hey, you know I really admire that guy. He's a big-time self-denialist.") Come on. 
What are we pushing for? Why do we work ourselves into the ground? In search of a better life? In search of happiness? Sorry, itjust doesn't work that way. 
Sure, goals are important. We have to work for something right? Right. But how far are we willing to go? 
The only real goal is to live how we want to live. Of course, maybe we want to live as obsessive health nuts, workaholics and throats. But will the hap­piness we are striving for, sweating for and sacrificing relationships for be there when we finally reach perfection? Can we ever reach perfection? 
The point is, perfection does not equal happiness. We can never be thin enough, rich enough or smart enough to make ourselves happy. I forget who it was who said that happiness is not something we can reach for, it just happens along the way. We want happiness so much that we deny ourselves the freedom to be happy. We work too hard for it. Maybe threejobs and two ulcers later we will realize that it was there all along. We werejust too busy to see it. But why waste 60 years to dis­cover this? 
This is not an article written by a leftover flower child as a plug against goals and ambition. Go for it! Just know when to stop. If the cost is your friends, family, health, or sense of humor, the price is too high. 
Ifyour nose has been in a book so long 
you have forgotten that grass is green, if 
you have had more meetings with your 
boss than you have had with your family, 
if you are working out so much that you 
are too tired to toss a football with friends, 
stop and look at yourself. What is it all 
worth? Has a healthy pursuit become an 
obsession? How much is too much? 
Blair Sabol, former fitness addict and 
health columnist for Mademoiselle, in 
changing her obsessive attitude toward 
fitness wrote: "I find it very boring to get 
so pure. You have to have a vice. You 
have to smoke or you have to have a 
Scotch. You need a little friendly bacteria 
in you"(Chicago Tribune, Sept. 28, 1986). 
She is right. Everyone needs to skip a class, splurge on something totally im­practical, take an extended vacation or indulge in a double-thick cookie crumble shake occassionally (I kriow I do). 
Carol Brown is a junior in the College ofArts and Letters and is a regular View­point Columnist. 
~--~------~----------~------------~~~------------------~----------~----------~--------~----~--~~~~~~~--~------------~ ~,
P.O.BoxQ 
Nicaraguan gives first hand account of reign 
Dear Editor: 
Jurgen Brauer's article of Sept. 23 was interesting, but inaccurate. And as for the summer, I was going to school, and all my friends at Notre Dame were working or studying, not whiling away the while. 
As a Nicaraguan citizen I can tell you that the road the Sandinistas have taken is of their own choosing and not due to military pressure. As early as December of 1979, just 5 months after Somoza's departure, they were cracking down on freedom of the press. I know so from first hand experience, not from 3rd or 5th wit­ness accounts. I was told to shut my mouth by a Sandinista officer for inquir­ing about the shutting down of a small paper that had sprung up. The man had a gun as well. So much for the press freedom we were to enjoy... I dare not ask about LaPrensas "infinite shutdown" 
now. 
Early in 1980 one of the Orega brothers made a statement about economic policy: "We shall hang all the bourgeoisie from trees along Nicaragua's roads." This is their idea of mixed company. before the contras were of any significance. 
That 67% of the vote you quote is the 
count only of those who voted. Most 
people did not vote. Arturo Cruz, former 
Doonesbury 
IMH 

50 WHAr5 WITH 7118 YOUR BIG {{)(JNrf VH-OH. NW5, COMMI'TT(;[3 aYP£3? AGAIN TH/5 
MORNING. 
\ 

Sandinista Ambassador to Washington, formed a coalition that included most in­dependent parties and withdrew because they had reason to believe that there would be no respect for the final vote. The censorship prevailing then was lifted for two weeks before the election. That is not enough time to educate 3 million people on the views of a political party, is it? Your saying that those elections were valid is like asking me to believe what Bayardo Arce said before the elec­tions: "Elections in Nicaragua will not be a bourgeoisie raffle; the people of Nicaragua have already chosen the San­dinista Party as their popular Vanguard." 
And here is where the misconception lies. The afternoon that I hid two kids in my jeep and drove them away from the National Guard I did it to help them and cooperate in the national effort to oust Somoza. I could have been shot along with them that afternoon, but the last people in my mind were the Sandinistas. And most Nicaraguans acted in this fas­hion; rich, poor, middle class. 
It was a time all Nicaraguans were united behind one national effort, and that was to oust Somoza. Pegged to this was the idea of freedoms. No one had in mind to hand power to nine thugs. 
And how do they maintain power if most people do not like them? It is simple; they intimidate people. Guns are extremely useful for this, and there are other methods ofcoercion. Food ration­ing and neighborhood spy committees where the head receives per~ from the government. This happens in Nicaragua. It creates an environment of fear which keeps most people in line. Another fear­some practice are jails, many of which are located in suburban homes. 
The standard of living has sharply declined. By their own admission, exports were close to a billion in 1978, they are now about 300 million. Food rationing and coupons are used now. Cooking oil is now Russian bear fat, which gives food a rancid taste. I can remember taking polio vaccines in the early 1960's, for free. Much of what the Sandinistas boast is mythological. This decline began before the contras were of any sig­nificance. There is no meat in the markets and the contras do not function in the cattle growing regions yet. It is a propaganda feat to blame the contras. 
Education is better, you say? I do not 
agree. Do you know how they teach chil­
dren to add? By drawing rifles and hand 
grenades on a piece of paper...one hand 
grenade plus one hand grenade equals 
two. Do you know how they teach them 
to read? With thoroughly politicized ma­
terial, slogans included. This is not edu­
cation, this is brainwashing to serve the 
aims of a political party. 
The Sandinistas have intentions for Central America as well. This has been shown beyond any doubt by the capture 
Garry Trudeau 

7H£Y7H!NIC  HOT, 5Uat5SFUL EN­ 
LACEY PAV8N­ Tf<EPRB-I&UR V5.  
PORTCANE*  OH,  TIRE/), IRR&UVANT  
8tAT, GINNY.'  aYP£,  PONAGCI<. ANPY(}(}  aarHE.s?  
ANP 7H&Y THIN!<  HON&SnY  !<NOWWHATMYBIG  
IM THtUAN 70  \  7HCM~tvlf_l !Je?  
00/T/ \  

Ihe Observer 
P. 0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer Is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer­sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either Institution. The news Is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
1 1

of arms shipments in Honduras of trucks 
1 

destined to El Salvador. It has been 
1 

shown by captured Honduran subversives 
1 who were trained in Nicaragua by Cubans, and captured terrorists in Costa Rica with connections to the Nicaraguan embassy ~ there. Nicaragua is a safe heaven for all Central American subversive groups. You may see their leader resting in Nicaragua 
l 

and well guarded. 
The victims in Nicaragua are the victims of the Sandinistas. We welcome the help we receive from the United States and the more supplies we receive the more people will join the contras. 
The contras are men and women, living heroes, who risk their lives every day to 
fight Sandinista tyranny. The Sandinistas deserve to be held by the nose and kicked in the pants. They are following dictator Somoza's footsteps at a quicker pace. 
The Sandinistas do not negotiate with us because any of our demands are mor­tal to them: freedom of assembly, freedom of press, free speech, free elec­tions, respect for honestly acquired prop­erty. We will settle for no less and there is no reason why we should. 
There are many tough situations in life requiring courage, and I certainly have both courage and backbone to see the 
situation  in  Nicaragua  as  it  has  
developed.  
Adolfo Calero  

Graduate Student 
, -~ 

Quote of the day 
"Never think that God's delays 
are God's denials. fast; hold out. genius."  Hold on; hold Patience is  
Comte de Bujjon 1707-1788  

General Board 
Editor-in-Chief.............. ..... Joe Murphy Managing Editor ................ Kevin Becker Viewpoint Editor ...............• Scott Bearby Sports Editor . ............... Dennis Corrigan Accent Editor . .................. Mary Jacoby Saint Mary's Editor . ........... Margie Kersten News Editor ..................... Tripp Baltz News Editor . ................ Mark Pankqwski 
Founded November 3, 1966 
Business Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann Controller . ................. Alex VonderHaar Production Manager . ............ Chris Bowler Photography Manager . ......... James Carroll Advertising Manager . ........ Anne M. Culligan Systems Manager ....•........ Shawn Sexton Graphic Arts Manger .......... Mark Weimholt OCN Manager . ............. Francis X. Malone 
~----------~ ·------· 
The Observer Monday, October 6, 1986, -page 6 
SMC Senior Father-Daughter Weekend 
Photos by: Margaret Mannion Martha Oldford 


----------~--:--:--:------------~­
--~--------------------------------------------------------------------------~----~ 
Accent 
Monday, October 6, 1986, -page 7 
Students 'capitalize' on learning opportunity 

GINA CAMARENA employed. By working in Washington features writer With an $800 grant, Tw rag Twarog was better able to under­spent two months studying the stand and take a new perspective 
Washington D.C. is one of the effect of third-world debt on the on the third-world debt crisis. best cities to learn about the poor in underdeveloped This is an important topic for her duties and responsiilities of countries. Her main objective because she plans to pursue a professionals by working was assisting Notre Dame eco­career in developmental eco­alongside them. This past sum­nomics Professor Ken Jameson nomics or public health. mer three Notre Dame students in composing a paper dealing Twarog considers the city "a took advantage of an opportu­with this issue. The completed community--not just a work nity to live and work in Washing­paper will be released later at a place." ton. Seniors Sophie Twarog, conference on debt. "I love it" she said, "All of its Dave lrnrnonen and Mike Hof­Twarog had access to the Li­people are like one great bauer experienced the chal­brary of Congress for her re­museum--and I love museums." lenges and excitement that this search on the origin of the debt An economics major, Dave lrn­fast-paced city offers. crisis. However, her task was not rnonen, felt lucky to hold a po­
Twarog spent her summer bnly researching the debt, but sition in the International Trade working in Washington through also performing general office Commission dealing with the Notre Dame's Kellogg Institute duties such as answering phones Japarvt.Jnited States trade rela­for International Studies. The In­and holding weekly Wednesday tions. For three months lrn­stitute offers three human rights luncheons. While touring the city rnonen was on special duty in programs for work abroad: in her spare time Twarog atten­the trade representative office Washington Office of Latin ded congressional hearings, which regulates the President's America, Organization of Ameri­visited the World Bank, various trade negotiations team. can States and the Center ofCon­museums, music festivals, and It was lrnrnonen's job to stay cerns through which Twarog was the Hispanic Festival. on top of the issues. His main 
responsibility was monitoring the trade affairs between the two countries, and his work con­sisted of a great deal of writing, statistical analyzing and reading. 
Using current statistics, lrn­rnonen generated reports to help answer questions from congres­ssrnen during the several con­gressional hearings that he cov­ered. 
Although lrnrnonen has traveled to Washington many times, he still finds the city "a great place to be." During his stay he attended concerts in small clubs to hear the bands he had been following, and he also visited art exhibits and theaters. 
Accounting major Mike Hof­bauer learned first-hand what 
Martial arts are physically fun 
CHARLES LOBDELL The martial arts began as part Though self-defense is one of features writer of a religion. In China they are the club's purposes, fts main pur­still taught -in conjunction with pose is fun. The club attends 
The martial arts are alive and philosophy and religion. The tournaments each semester well at Notre Dame. On campus West has stripped the religious where students can test their there are cu'rrently three different aspect from the arts and uses skills against others. What 
styles taught: two by student the systems simply for self­motivates the Institute's stu­teachers and one by a local defense and physical condition­dents? Most join to learn self­
teacher. This allows the students ing. Some Western instructors defense and have fun; they stick to pick the style best suited for feel this is unfortunate and at­with it for the challenge. their needs and desires. One ca­tempt to include the philosophi-· Cooper's class meets on 
veat, those seeking to emulate cal teachings of the martial arts Fridays from 4 to 6 p.m. and Bruce Lee movies have to look in their teachings. from 6 to 8 p.m. on Sundays. somewhere else, as control is the One such person is Davtd Scott Classes are also held in room first rule of the arts. who heads the Notre Dame Kung 2 19 of Rockne Memorial. The 
The exact history of the martial Fu Club and teaches Northern· charge is $45 per semester with arts is lost in the mists of time. Shaolin Red Dragon style to his an extra charge for testing. Legend has it that it accompa­15 to 20 students. Scott believes The Tae Kwon Do club is nied Buddhism from India into that harmony is the key to Kung taught by local martial artist, China with the monk Bod­Fu. One does not meet a hard Steve Travis. Travis has been hidisrna. Bodhidisrna spent attack with a hard attack because teaching Tae Kwon Do in the Mis­seven years on a mountain top that breaks the harmony. In hawaka area since 1975. The pri­in front of a wall waiting for stu­Kung Fu, one turns the attackers mary purpose of the club is dents. According to the myth. he force against him and redirects self-defense, followed by physi­'"learned to listen to the noise of the attack. In practice it is similar cal and mental conditioning. the ants screaming." When the to ballet: a precison ballet of Travis believes that self-defense students arrived, they had trou­mind, spirit, and body. begins in the mind, and a prac­ble staying awake due to his long The techniques taught are par­ticioner of Tae Kwon Do should teachings and meditation peri­tially for conditioning and par­have enough control over his ac­ods. Bodhidisrna developed a se­tially for self-defense. Kung Fu tions to either stun, maim or kill ries of exercises designed to does not require a person of im­an opponent, depending on the keep his students awake. mense strength or height since circumstances. Sparring is 
the purpose is to use the attack­taught so students can learn to 
These exercises stressed ers own force against him. Kung react, block and attack. This breathing and stretching. They Fu is a way of life for its students. helps the students who attend gave strength to limbs and Scott teaches Kung Fu every the many tournaments in which vitality to the breath. The move­Monday from 7 to 9 p.m. and the club participates. ments imitated those of the from 6 to 8 p. rn. on Saturday. The club meets every Thursday animals. These teachings be­Classes are held at the Rockne from 7 to 8:30 p.m. in the Ath­carne the basis for the Shaolin Memorial in room 219. He letic and Convocation Center. temple in China. charges $75 per semester but he The charge is $45 per semester 
As the Chinese empire grew does not charge for testing. with an extra charge for testing. and its culture spread, other cul­The Notre Dame Martial Arts The martial arts are hard work. tures were exposed to the martial Institute is headed by Gary They require many hours of ex­arts. The arts were imitated and Cooper. Its students learn both ercise and attention to detail. But copied to suit the needs and Tae Kwon Do and Jui Jitsu. Tae the students feel that the end limits of the culture. When the Kwon Do is a traditional martial result is well worth the physical arts were transported to the art that promotes defense pain. Students do not have to be West, they were modified even through a strong offense. It in­physically fit to join one of the more. There is no longer any one volves many strikes with both the martial arts classes. All styles ··pure" style. They are all varia­feet and hands. Jui Jitsu teaches teach physical conditioning tions of a central theme. defense defense. a with their techn duties an accountant performs by working in Washington. Hof­bauer was employed for two and one-half months at Ernst and Whinney accounting firm where he was responsible for auditing financial statements for a hospi­tal, a trade association and various other corporations. 

During the summer he reaf­firmed his career goals by taking a look at what he would be doing in the future. Having performed the tasks for which he is now studying has been beneficial for Hofbauer--particularly in his auditing class where he had on­the-job experience. 
'"There was always something to do in the city," said Hofbauer. 
His favorite activities were playing squash, softball and es­pecially volleyball near the Potomac. Other sites of interest included a sidewalk cafe adjoin­ing a bookstore and all-night cafes hosting live bands. While in town Hofbauer also attended the Monkees concert but what impressed him the most was the Fourth ofJuly celebration on the White House Mall with its bands, fireworks and national sym­phony. 
'"It was just like a huge party," said Hofbauer. 
For these three students, Washington D.C. proved to be an interesting city for working, learning and having fun. 


'­
The Observer Monday, October 6, 1986, -page 8 
Wadsworth takes Southern Open
Sports Briefs 
Associated Press The 24-year-old Wadsworth qualifiers to make the field. He finished with a 72-hole total of had played in one previous The ND-SMC Ski Team will have its first organizational 
COLUMBUS, Ga. -Unknown 269, I I under par, to edge third­Southern Open and the last two meeting tomorrow in the Library Auditorium at 7 p.m. Anyone 
Fred Wadsworth, a Columbus na­round leader Jim Thorpe, U.S. opens, failing to make the interested in trying out for the team or in the Christmas trip 
tive who had to qualify on Mon­George Archer, John Cook and cut in any of them. to Jackson Hole, Wyoming, should attend. If you have any 
day to get into the $350,000 defending champion Tim Yesterday, however, before his questions, call ~thy (4029), Jeff (3660), Joe (I 190) or Lisa 
Southern Open golf tournament, Simpson. family and friends, the blond 6­(284-4415). -The Observer 
shot a 3-under-par 67 yesterday Wadsworth qualified on Mon­foot-3, 195-pounder 'who was to capture the $63,000 first prize day at the nearby Fort Benning two shots behind Thorpe at the by two shots. course with a 68, one of four start of the round, never faltered. 
dogged Tide rush to stay healthy. soil came Nov. 24, 1984 when The NO Raquetball Club will sponsor a men's clinic today 
In fact, at the intermission, Notre they defeated USC. .. Beuerlein from 8 to 9 p.m. at the ACC Court One. A ladies clinic will 
Irish 
Dame even led in total offense, suffered a minor concussion on also be held tomorrow at the same time and place. All are 
226 yards to 149 yards. the now-famous sack by Bennett.
continuedfrom page 12 
"I thought our football team Beuerlein, who asked to stay in Observer 
welcome. For more information call Dave Pyron at I 393. -The 
The biggest play of all the big bounced back in the last 58 the game, admitted afterwards plays no doubt was the 52-yard seconds to get that field goal," that he probably should have sat touchdown reception by Bell. noted Holtz, "so I really felt good out the rest of the way...Other Leading 7-0 on Richardson's when we came out in the second injuries: cornerback Troy Wilson electrifying 66-yard touchdown half." (bruised ribs), split end Alvin Mil· 
The SMC Varsity Basketball team will hold practice today 
scamper off an Irish punt, Shula Holtz' hopes were dashed, ler (sore knee), tailback Mark from 6 to 8 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility. Interested players· 
fired a bullet to Bell in the seam however, on the opening kickoff Green (sore ankle), safety Jim should bring proof of a recent physician's clearance to the 
of Notre Dame's zone defense. when Brown lost the ball trying Bobb (minor concussion) and first practice. Call 284-5548 for more information. -The Ob­
Bell carried it all the way in with­to break a tackle and Alabama's safety . Mike Haywood (sore server 
out ever being touched by an Desmond Holoman recovered at knee)... Haywood, back in ac­Irish defender. the ND 19-yard line. Three plays tion after a two-week respite with 
"We had a miscommunication later, Shula lofted a 22-yard pass a muscle-pull, picked off Shu Ia's on the sidelines," explained Irish to Bell for the final touchdown only interception and returned it safety Brandy Wells, who was the of the day. 27 yards. Unfortunately, only player at all near the speed­After that, it was pretty much Haywood was still a bit slowed 
The SMC varsity swim team will hold practice today at the 
ing Bell. "Bell just split the zone, all Bennett and the Crimson by the injury as it appeared there Rockne Memorial Pool on the Notre Dame campus from 3:30 
Shula threw it on the line, and defense as they continuously was a potentially much longer to 5:30 p.m. Interested swimmers should bring proof of a 
we just didn't have anybody chased Beuerlein (5-of-16, 66 gain available. "Richardson's recent physician's clearance to the first practice. Call 284­
there." yards) and Andrysiak (8-of-18, speed also had a lot to do with 5548 for more information. -The Observer 
Still, despite the bi~·play vul­90 yards) into desperation my being caught from behind," nerability, Notre Dame seemed throws. noted Haywood. . . Anti-Notre to head into the intermission "It really made for a difficult Dame sentiment abounded all with a great deal of confidence day for the quarterbacks," said throughout Birmingham. Among after it marched 7 I yards in less Holtz. the popular T-shirts were ones 
Two Hydroroblcs classes are being sponsored by NVA this 
than a minute to set up a John Indeed, it was a difficult day that read, "Kill Notre Dame," semester. Monday and Wednesday evenings, participants Carney field goal that made the for everyone involved in the "Beat the Hell out of Notre meet at 6:45 for an hour of aerobics in the water. Tuesday score 21-I 0, Both Irish quarter­Notre Dame cause. Dame," and "(expletive deleted)and Thursday at 12:15 p.m. there is a half-hour class. Call back Terry Andrysiak, who led his EXTRA POINTS -Alabama's win Notre Dame." Holtz, however,NVA at 239-6100 or stop by one of the classes for more team to that final drive before was its first ever in five attempts commented on the "wonderful"details. -The Observer the half, and Beuerlein had good against the Irish...The Irish now environment of the game and the success moving the ball in the have lost eight consecutive road gracious-in-victory nature of the first half and dodging the games. Their last win on enemy Alabama fans. . . 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES  FOUND!! KEYS, ULASSES, CAL­CULATORS, BOOKS ... STILL LOCKED OUT OF YOUR ROOM? GETIING WET  FOR SALE  NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA'S·Iamlly's first visit CALL 272-3463 alter 9:30  PERSONALS  ARTS AND LEnERS CAREER DAY TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7. NOON TO 4:00P.M.  
EVERY TIME IT RAINS BECAUSE YOU  PLEASE SELL ME  YOUR STUDENT  CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCA·  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082  CAN'T FIND YOUR UMBRELLA? CHECK THE LOST AND FOUND OF­FICE!! FIRST FLOOR OF LAFORTUNE,  TV RENTALS -LOW RATES. COLLEGIATE  SEMESTER RENTALS,  TICKETS FOR AIR FORCE! I NEED 'EM!!!!!! £234-4642 OR 239-5303 ASK FORTB  OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  TION ALL ARE WELCOME.  
OPEN MONDAY THRU FRIDAY, 8:00­ FORMERLY COLOR CITY 272-5959.  
SAME-DAY TYPING ND Pick-up Quick-Type, Inc. 277-8998  12:00 AND 1 :00·5:00 LOST: Radio Shack calculator. If found, please call James at x1150 •• LOST: BLUE AND GOLD NO BOOK­BAG " CONTENTS: NOTEBOOK, FOLDER, CALCULATOR, TEXTBOOK, ETC." WHERE: NORTH DINING HALL  •  1976 Toyata Corolla Sport Coupe. Runs great, good condition, only 71000 mi., 2 dr.,4sp., asking 51095. Call 287-9061. 1980 Honda Civic Wagon, Air, AMf'M,5-speed, No Rust, Very Reli­able, $1,650, 233-9947.  I Desperately Need 1 Or 2 Pitt. GA's or Student's. Willing To Pay Big $$$. Call Jim At 1061. Need 5 Alrforce GAs Family coming from Buflalo,NY will pay cash! PLEASE CALL Pat 289-4635 ENDED  1967 SMCfojD summer prQgrams over­seas( 14th annual) London program May 20-June 19th. (Travel In tre.,Scot.,France). Rome program June 14th-July 13th.(travelln France, Ger, Swiss. Italy) Courses In art, bus.,educ.,eng.,hlst.,llallan.lnfo meet-. lng Rm 232 Moreau(SMC) 7PM Oct 14th. Faculty, last yrs. students, and  ARTS AND LETIERS CAREER DAY TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7. NOON TO 4:00P.M. CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCA­TION ALL ARE WELCOME. HELP!! I NEED A RIDE TO CINCINNATI  
TYPINGWORDPROCESSING CALL DOLORES 2n-8131.  " WHEN: 1()-2116" REWARD: $50.00 FOR NOTES AND FOLDER $100.00 FOR EVERYTHING NO QUESTIONS  MUST SELL--Round-trip ticket to LOS ANGELES tor Oct. break. Best offer.  DESPERATELY NEED GA'S...CALL NANCY, 3829  6  SMU  pizza. Questions call Prof. A.R. Black, 284-4460 or 272-3726.  LEAVING THURS OCT 17 OR EARLY FRI OCT 18 WILL SHARE EXPENSES I AM GETIING DESPERATE!!!! CALL  
BUFFALO BUS FOR OCTOBER BREAK-COST:$60 ROUND TRIP; SIGN-UPS:THURS OCT.2,7-9 PM,117 B.P. AND TUES OCT.7,7-9 PM,336 LEWIS; QUESTIONS-CALL KIM £4329  ASKED " CALL: MIKE MELIA 329 ZAHM HALL 283-1111 Found: set of keys. Room 202 and mall key. On South Bend Tribune key chain. Found In CompMath building terminal room. If they're yours please call 2129 to claim.  £1674 TICKETS SS I NEED 1-8 AIR FORCE GA'S SS  I NEED GA's FOR PITI CALL MIKE £ 1658 DESPARATELY NEED 3 PENN ST. TICKETS, STUDENT OR GA. FAMILY IS COMING FOR BIRTHDAY. PLEASE CALL MARY, 272-5783.  ATIENTION FORMER EDITORS-IN­CHIEF & OBSERVER STAFFERS: Write us and give us your address and let us know what you're doing. Going to, near, or thru Atlanta? Desparately need a ride for Fall Break! Call Rob at 1546. Will more than share  MARY 283-4311 WHRRRRRRRRRRRRR.... She's crushing, chopping, blending She's out of control, She's 20 SHE'S BETH HEALY I!!!I!II!I!!!!!!IHAPPY BIRTHDAY BETH!III!IIII!II  
Professional word processing and typing. Convenient location on N.lron­wood. Call NICS 2n-4220. LOST/FOUND LOST: One ADVERTISING STRATE·  LOST: GOLD WATCH WITH CLIP DIAMONDS ON DIAL.VALUABLE PRIMARILY AS KEEPSAKE­DECEASED SISTER'S WATCH. MOREAU HALL-REGINA HALL.REWARD. CALL SR. MARIA 284-4490 FOUND --pair of wire-rimmed sun­glassas outside the stadium alter the Michigan game. In a brown case. Call £1206 to claim.  DAN 3273 NEED 10 Ptn TIXS OR SECURITY BOY, WILL MY BROTHER KILL ME IF YOU DON'T GIVE ME TIXS CALL JOE 239-7471 OR 283-1931. THANKS IN A PANIC!! Family coming In from Jersey and Ohio for Ptn· GAME­ANEED SIX TIX-GMTUD! Steph 272­5417  I have many bros and sisters coming for A-F game!! NEED TIXI PLEASE HELP ME! CALL MARK AT 4302!SSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS$SSSSS HELP parents coming and I have no tickets, they will suck out my liver If I don't get 2 or 4 GA's for AIRFORCE: CALL JEFF £1560 NEED 4 GA'S FOR PITI & AIR FORCE. CALL GAIL KRZYSKOWSKI 284-5139.  expenses. Grace Hall SYR It's coming! Grace Hall SYR It's coming! FALL FEST IS COMING. GET READY TO KICK OFF THE BEST FALL YET. THE FINALE IS THE GARDENS. Ride Needed NYCUWestchester Area For October Break -Can Leave Thur Will Share Expenses. Call 2853 or 3010.  "WANT TO WRITE A BOOK" ? I NEED HELP!! 15 years of study has gone Into data & research. Subject dlet>hutrlllon. Would like underclas­smen, graduate student or faculty member talented In writing. Reply to: ND Boxholder, P.O. Box 33, Osceola, Indiana 46561 DAN RIPPER: I love you, bsbe. Keep smllln'. Love, KIM  
GIES text In Hurley. If found, please return to Portia Amberg In 145 Lyons Hall or call iiit2999.  FOR RENT  HELP! P.W. Partner(my boss) needs 4 GA & 2 student tickets for Pitt Oct. 11. I love my job & my life!! Call Joanne (716)837 -9176 '  NEED 2 SMU GA's Call Karen 272-5783 Lots SSS$  SENIORS: DO YOU HAVE A SENSE OF MINISTRY TO THE WORLD AND TO THE CHURCH AS A LAY PERSON.  Ptn CLUB Ptn CLUB Ptn CLUB PITI CLUB SIGN UPS FOR OCT. BREAK BUS AT 8:00 ON TUES. 11)17 AT SOUTH DINING HALL  
CONSIDER  HOLY  CROSS  AS·  
FOUND: One gold charm bracelet be­tween Alumni and Dillon. Call Mark at 1712 for positive I.D. PHIL SHERIDAN, I FOUND YOUR BOOKBAG. CALL £3549 TO CLAIM LOST: light blue windbreaker with WLU SKI TEAM written on the back.  BED 'N BREAKFAST ROOMS FOR PARENTS FOR NOVEMBER GAMES AND SPECIAL WEEKENDS. (1-219­291-7153). WANTED SKI ALL WINTER! Crystal Mountain Is  I NEED Ptn GAS & ALL HOME GAMES.272·6306 I NEED 2 OR 4 AIR FORCE GA'S PLEASE CALL 2157 NEED ONE OR TWO GA'S FOR Ptn -CALL CURTIS AT 1421 BIG $$ 4 Ptn STUOOA'S X-4280  I need 3 ga's or student ttx !orr Air Force game. Please call RJ at 2129. NEEDED: 2 GA TICKETS TO THE PITI GAME CALL LAURA 4011 YOU WANT EM, I'VE GOT THEM! AIR FORCE TIX! 2 GAs & 3 STUDs Insist on trade for 2 Penn or SMU GAs Chris 4335  SOCIATES IN CHILE. APPLICATION DEADLINE: NOV. 7. SEE MARY ANN ROEMER AT CSC OR JANE PITZ AT MOREAU SEMINARY. Hungry? Call THE YELLOW SUB­MARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery hours: Monday -Thursday 5pm-12am; Friday 5pm-2am; Saturday 5pm-1am; Sunday 4pm·10pm.  "Why did Babe shoot Zachary?" "Causa she didn't like his looks, she just didn't like his stlnkln looks." These and other serious philosophical thoughts In CRIMES OF THE HEART, Oct. 6 thru 12, O'Laughlln Aud. Need 2 Air Force G.A's Call Jim at 1874 or Sarge.  
Please call Pat -1581 -or drop II oft at 1111 Flenner Hall REWARD! LOST:FRIDAY NIGHT AT BRIT­ now hiring children's ski Instructors for the winter season. Salary plus room & board. Contact Martha Mandel or Dave Hofacker at (616)378-2911.  NEED 6 PITI GA'S. CALL PATIY 284­5257. NEEDED: 5 GA'S FOR THE AIR FORCE  I NEED 2 Ptn TIXII CALL KEVIN AT 4006 OR 4277. ................................................................ HEY YOU -I'LL PAY MORE THAN  WASHINGTON D.C.BUS SIGN-UPS TUES., OCT. 7th from 6-7pm In the lobby of LaFortune ?'a call Kevin Vlrostek 1570  SEAN GARREn IS 21 TODAY.  
GETS...OLD BLUE JEAN JACKET CONTAINING KEYS AND LICENSE.  EARN  UP 1 TO  $8  AN  HOUR  As  a  GAME. 284-5320. SSSS  EVERYONE ELSE FOR 2 OF YOUR Ptn GA'S ASK FOR BILL OR LEAVE  CREAM  YOUR  FAVORITE  LYONITE  HAPPY BIRTHDAY, WOOSSBAGI ISN'T THAT A UTILE OLD TO BE SIT­ 
THIS JACKET HAS EXTREME SEN­ delivery driver you must have your  ANSWER MY PRAYERS and sell me  A MESSAGE 283 4052  CREAM  YOUR  FAVORITE  LYONITE  TING ON THE FLOOR PLAYING WITH  
TIMENTAL VALUE. PLEASE, IF YOU'VE SEEN IT, CALL 2172 OR STOP BY 433 LEWIS. REWARD OFFERED.  own car. Hours are llexabte. PIZZA HUT DELIVERY Apply at 138 112 DIXIE WAY NORTH.In Roseland around the corner on Murray St.  2 GA's to the AF game. Call me eter­nally grateful. But pleasa, call me, Mary (alter 8 PM) 283-3090.  PSU PEUKS coming out for game! Need MEGA PENN STATE ttx. Name your price, GA or STUD. Warren  CREAM YOUR FAVORITE LYONITE CREAM YOUR FAVORITE LYONITE CREAM YOUR FAVORITE-THROW A PIE IN THE FACE OF YOUR FAVORITE  LITILE CUT -OUT FIGURES AND MODEL HOUSES? WE DON'T THINK SO, AND WE HOPE YOU NEVER GROW UP, SEAN, BUT  
I NEED MY BACKPACK!!!!! If you find a red KREEGER & SONS backpack please call Feith Ellen at 232-5743. Thanks.  HELP! NEED A RIDE TO PHILA AREA AFTER AF GAME. WILL SHARE USUAL. CALL TED X4074.  NEED 1 ARMY GAIIII JIM-1729 I NEED 2 AIR FORCE G.A.a. PLEASE CALL MELISSA 283-3848.  (£1206)11 ································································ SELLING my Ptn std tkt ·Chrfs272­7649 (nights)  LYONS CHICK-C FRIDAY OCT. 10, 4:30 UNDER LYONS ARCH ON SALE IN DINING HALLS FRI, MON & TUES -$2 A PIE -SIGN UP NOW!!  WE SURE ARE GLAD YOU CAN BUY FOR US NOW. -FROM EINSTEIN, TICO, GIGGLER, RAY, CHRIS, JOE & BILL  

The Observer Monday, October 6, 1986, -page 9 
NVA Calendar 
Non-Varsity Athletics has announced deadlines for registra­tion for a number of upcoming NVA events. Wednesday is the deadline for the following events on the NVA calendar. VOLLEYBALL: tournaments for men, women, faculty and staff. RACQUETBALL: singles' tournaments for men, women and grad-faculty, best-of-three games to 21. BADMINTON: open, double-elimination tournament equi­pmemt and rules provided. 
Information and registration for these and other NVA events may be obtained by stopping by the NVA office in the ACC, or by calling NVA at 239-6100. 
I I 
Neighborhood Study Help Program, Inc. 
Dedicated to building a future for the children of South Bend. 

Lithography Display  Snite Museum  at 9:00  
St. Francis Shoppe Display  Library Foyer from 9-4  
Fireside Chat with Dr. Swartz  ISO Lounge at 12:00  

Dr. Swartz will be discussing Europe and the experience of studying and traveling abroad. Ethnic Clubs (Japanese Club) Fieldhouse MaD 12:00-1 Russian Video New Orleans Hall 2:00-5 
Multicultural Dinner Dining Halls 4:45-6:45 Russian Lecture by Dr. George Feifer Washington HaD at 7:00 
TOMORROW'S EVENTS 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7th 
Lithography Display Snite Museum at 9:00 St. Francis Shoppe Display Library Foyer from 9-4 Ethnic Clubs (SOLA) Fieldhouse Mall12:00-1 Multicultural Dinner Dining Halls 4:45-6:45 
Fireside Chat with 
Dr. Silvia Anadon who will 
be discussing Latin America ISO Lounge at 7:00 
JPPORTUN ITI ES YOU WON'T WRNT TO MISS 1111! 111111111 
Men's cross country slowed by rain 
By KATHLEEN McKERNAN 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame men's cross­country team splashed through the Burke Memorial Golf Course Friday on its way to a I Oth-place finish in its own Notre Dame In­vitational. 
"We just ran terrible," said sophomore Dan Markezich. "It was not a good meet. Everyone ran bad -except Mike O'Connor." 
The freshman O'Connor, turn­ing in his second-consecutive solid performance, finished third with a respectable 24:59 run in the swampy course. 
"It was a mess," freshman Tom O'Rourke said. "It was the mud­diest meet I've ever been in. It had been raining all week, so the course was really slowed down." 
"The course was a lot worse than last week," Markezich agreed. "There was a big lake that we had to run through right in the middle of the course." 
Lake is hardly an exaggeration for the puddle the Irish and the other teams, which included last week's National Catholic champs St. Thomas, had to swim through. 
"The lake was knee-deep," O'Rourke said. "We had to go through it three times -and there was no way around it." 
Nine of the 13 other teams finished ahead of the Irish. Eas­tern Michigan came away with the championship. Edinboro finished second and St. Thomas came in third. Also ahead of the Irish in team competition were Bowling Green, South Florida, Mankato State, Malone, North Central and Wisconsin-Lacrosse. 
Individually, Ron Johnson of Central Michigan came in first with a 24:54 run. Eastern Mic­higan's Don Johns placed second at 24:55. Notre Dame's O'Connor, coming off a fourth­place finish at the National Cath­olic Invitational, improved his placing to third and lost only 19 seconds off his time despite the swamp. 
Notre Dame's other runners didn't do so well. Dan Garrett's 
25:35 was not bad considering 

SMUSCHOOL OF LAW 
Dallas, Texas 
Professor Regis W .. Campfield, BBA, Notre Dame; LL.B., University of Virginia; Chairman ofthe Notre Dame Estate Planning Institute, will be on campus 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7 
from 7 to 9 pm in Rooms 104 and 104A of O'Shaugn­essy Hall to talk with students about admission and financial assistance. All interested students are welcome to meet with Professor Campfield during this time. 
Where the need is . . . there we will be. 

As individuals and as a community, we will work toward the alleviation of hunger, misery and the lack of knowledge. 
HOL V CROSS BROTHERS 
Br. Don Gibbs, C.S.C. Director of Vocations Box 460 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
the course's condition. He finished 2 I st overall. Markezich came in 59th; Tom O'Rourke ran the course in 26:43; co-captain Rick Mulvey turned in a 26:57 mark and finished 76th in the 96-man field. 
Notre Dame's difficulties in staying together as a group during the race became apparent with the distances between the runners. 
"We have been trying to run as a group," O'Rourke said. "We do it in practice, but we get in a meet and it doesn't seem to work. If we want to win, we really have to do it. But we're all different types of runners, so it's tough." 
"We're sort of looking forward to getting off our course in a couple of weeks," O'Rourke con­tinued. "We haven't done that well here." 
In addition to their poor showing Friday, the Irish finished fifth in the National Catholic In­vite and lost to Ohio State in a triangular with the Buckeyes and Michigan State. 
"It just was not a good meet" Markezich concluded, "but we have two weeks to get ready for the Indiana Intercollegiate in Terre Haute on October 17." 
Bennett 
continuedfrom page 12 
to pass the Irish back into con­
tention. Both signal-caller Terry 
Andrysiak and Beuerlein, who 
suffered a concussion on the 
Bennett hit and was woozy for 
much of the game, did a nicejob 
running for their lives, but it 
proved impossible to get any of­
fense generated. 
"In the second half, it just got 
very frustrating," said Andrysiak. 
who went 3-of-12 with one inter­
ception in the second half after 
a good (five-of-six) first half. "We 
weren't moving the ball and they 
dominated. It was very distract­
ing. It takes your mind off the 
game because every time you go 
to the line you're looking to see 
where they're coming from." 
Notre Dame's offensive num­
bers in the second half reflected 
the Tide's awesome defensive ef­
fort: zero points allowed, four 
turnovers, 3-of-1 7 passing, a 
total of 98 net yards. 
"Their pass rush was the key to the game," said Beuerlein. "They put a lot of pressure from the outside and they took us right out of It in the third quarter. One thing is for sure; that Ben­nett gave me a couple of good whacks today." 
Perhaps Beuerleln can find some consolation in the fact that he's not the only one to ride on the Tide's Bennett all the way to the turf. Bennett already has five sacks this year to go along with his career mark of 21 caught­behind-line plays. 
"The game was won by great defense the entire game," said Alabama head coach Ray Perkins. "Bennett is a prototype linebacker, at least one of the top five players in America." 
Perkins would get no argu­ment from the Irish. 
SObering
Advice .~ cansa~e,
..

alife /, 
......
..· 


The Observer Monday, October 6, 1986, -page I 0 
Irish volleyball earns first shutout, 
Women fall to Detroit 
By THERESA KELLY soggy Burke Memorial Golf
breezes past Marquette, DePaul 
Sports Writer . Course. The entire Detroit 
team finished ahead of the By RICK RIETBROCK that paved the way to an Irish The Irish finished with a 15-4 
The Notre Dame women's Irish number-three runner. Sports Writer victory. rout to complete the weekend. 
cross-country team ran into The teams appeared evenly­The second game started Lambert was a bit surprised with 
hard times against the Univer­matched in two previous There have been a lot of slowly and Marquette used the ease of the victories, and 
sity of Detroit Saturday. The meetings, each finishing storms with high winds in South several tips to grab a 6-5 lead. added that his team did not play 
Detroit team placed the ahead of the other once at the Bend lately. But this past This time it was Gretchen Kraus all that well. 
second-through-fifth finishers Hillside Invititational and the weekend, Notre Dame volleyball and Kathy Cunningham that led "I thought we'd beat them, but 
to win the dual meet between National Catholic Cross opponents were the only ones the Irish charge to a 15-6 victory. not by that much," he said. "''m 
the two schools. Country Championships. getting blown away. The 5-6 deficit was the last one absolutely thrilled with the vic­
Irish runner Julia Merkel Detroit definitely proved itself The Irish started the weekend the Irish faced all weekend. tory, but I never thought we got 
won the race, establishing a against the Irish here Satur­by breezing past Marquette, 15-The final game was rather in sync either offensively or 
course record of 19:02 for the day, however. 2, 15-6, 15-2. DePaul was next, sloppy, but the Irish were never defensively. We didn't really pass 
5000-meter course. Merkel "We should have been more and the Irish dumped the threatened and took an easy 15-that well, either." 
led from the outset and con­competitive," said Ryan, who Demons, 15-2, 15-0, 15-4, in the 2 victory. Lambert said he was especially 
tinued to widen her lead was disappointed with the most lopsided win in Notre Dame But things were even more fun pleased with the play of Bennett, 
throughout the race. 2:0 I time-gap between his history. against DePaul. who had been switched from the 
"Julia ran very well," said first-and fifth-place finishers. The shutout in the second DePaul came into the season middle-blocker position to an 
Coach Dan Ryan of his game was the first ever recorded ranked I I th by Midwestern outside hitter. 
number-one runner. "She is "The gap has usually been by Notre Dame. coaches, but the Blue Demons 
always in the hunt to win every between I :24 and I :37," said could not compete against Lam­"Zanette's made the change, 
race we run." Ryan. He attributed Notre Head Coach Art Lambert said bert's squad. and it's not that easy," he said. 
Sophomore Theresa Rice Dame's poor showing to lack the Irish are where they want to The first game featured fine "She changed up some of her 
also ran well, placing sixth of competiveness and the ill­be now. play from Mary Kay Waller, Shew­shots and kept in her rhythm bet­
overall and second for Notre ness of freshman runner "This string of road games we man and Cunningham against ter than she had been." 
Dame with a time of 20:06. In Linda Filar. Usually the have coming up is what it's all DePaul's attack of tips and dinks. The match also marked the 
what is only her first year run­number-two finisher for the about," he said. "This is crunch The Irish won 15-2. first appearance of the "Z Cor­
ning cross country, Rice has Irish, Filar ran the race, but time and if we approach each The next game made history. ner" at the ACC. Several students 
become an important part of was slowed by weakness game with the same attitude and Zanette Bennett started with hung a "Z" from the bleachers 
the Irish team. caused by an upper respira­same effort, I have every confi­three quick kills to go with a pair for each of Bennett's kills, an an­
"As she becomes adjusted tory infection. dence that we'll do very well." ofCunningham aces, a Waller kill swer to various "K" corners at 
to the sport, Theresa has run The Irish hope to bounce The easy weekend began with and a DePaul receiving error to baseball games. 
better and better," said Ryan. back with a good race Satur­Marquette taking a 2-0 lead, but give Notre Dame a quick 7-0 The Irish are now 12-4, their 
The rest of the Notre Dame day at the Southwestern Mic­it was short-lived. Maureen Shea lead. best start in history, and are 
team did not fare so well on higan Invitational. and Whitney Shewman turned 
The Irish continued to use headed for a string of road things around quickly, with six strong blocking and DePaul er­matches that begins with a Tues­kills in a run of I 0 straight points rors to get the whitewash. day match at Illinois State. 
Eagles stop potent Falcon offense 
Associated Press for the first time since Don Shula and 38 yards to Irving Fryar 
became coach in 1970. before suffering bruised and 
Everything that was perfect Eason, who completed 12-of-possibly fractured ribs in the final turned imperfect for the Atlanta 16 passes, threw touchdown minute of the first half when he Falcons yesterday. passes of 2 yards to Willie Scott was sacked by Mack Moore. 
They took the NFL's top-ranked offense, a 16-of-16 success ratio when they took the ball inside the 20-yard line and a 4-0 record into yesterday's game against Philadelphia. 
Happy 19th 
But the Eagles stopped the Fal­
cons from scoring when they Anniversary 
went inside the I 0 on their first 
two possessions and went on to 
to 
win, 16-0, Philadelphia's first shutout since 1981. 
Louise (Weesie) Nye
In other early games Sunday, it was Cincinnati 34, Green Bay 28; Cleveland 27, Pittsburgh 24; Detroit 24, Houston 13; Los An­geles Raiders 24, Kansas City I 7; New England 34, Miami 7; Chicago 23, Minnesota 0; New 
We thank you for 19 years as 
York Giants 13, St. Louis 6; and 
Student Government/SAB 
Washington 14, New Orleans 6. 
The Eagles' offense struggled Bookkeeper. early, but Junior Tautalatasi and Ron Johnson turned short passes into long gains to set up 
••-----lllllftB~--------•
a touchdown and field goal late HOURS: 5:00-Midnight 272-5455
NAUGLES® 

501 Dlxieway North, Roseland, Indiana
in the first half. 
Raiders 24, Chiefs 1 7 NAUGLES TO YOUR DORM!! 
Jim Plunkett fired the go­ahead touchdown pass and the MEXICAN Kf~~H:~o AM~~!~!.~ ~~~:~EN
4
Los Angeles Raiders, helped by 
Taco 1.09 1.69 CUSTOM GRJUID NOT STOCK Pll£0 a "communications breakdown" Burrito• Naugleburger 1.99 Bean 1.79 2.49 2 Patties with the works
when the video replay official 
Meat 2.39 3.29 double cheese 
Combo 2.09 2.79 Cheae 1.89 2.59 Deluxe Hamburger 1.39 rallied to beat Kansas City. Make ony burrito wet for 50 cents!! 2 Patties with lettuce, 
tried to disallow an earlier score, 
P.S. Don't order macho unless yoo're ready for • tomato, mayo dressing
Jack Reader, the official in the 
pound of goodies! 

Hamburger 1.19video replay booth, ruled that 2 Patties with pickle, ketchup,
Nachoo It Cheae 1.19 

mustard, onion
Dokie Williams was out of Have some sauce for oo extra charge tq spice them up that much more. 
add cheese .20 
bounds on a 12-yard touchdown 
Macbo Nacbo'o 2.19

pass from Marc Wilson in the DESSERTS
Relried boons, chips, cheese, peppers, mild meat Hot Fudge • Hot Carmnel • Strawberry • Orange
sauce, sp6cy ween sauce! Bluebeny • Chocolo.te • Cherry • Vanilla • Root Beer 
Keck misunderstood Reader and T-.da Grande 3.29 Shakeo 1.09 (In • shell · wonderful) 
second period. But umpire Jim 
Sundaeo 1.49
mistakenly let the play stand. Reg. 
'Pia-

Fudge Brownie .69
Williams' score was the first of 1.29 2.89 
Paotry .69 ToetadaCombo 1.59 2.09
three straight Los Angeles touch­Fudge Brownie Sundae 1.69 
Chile Ole' .99 2.39

downs as the Raiders erased a 
Taco Sandwich 1.49 2.59 

DRINK UP! 
17-0 deficit. After Williams' con­Cblcken S.adwk:b 1.74 2.84 
Cold Beverage•troversial catch, Napolean Platter · Assortment of ..uces & side orders. Liter-.94 
Wont K a spedill WilY · just order hi 

Pepsi, Diet P~sl, Root Beer, Mt. Dew
McCallum scored his first NFL 
Dr. Pepper, Welches, Slice, Lemonade, Ice Tea
Encbllada'o (Platter of 2)

touchdown on a 12-yard run and 
Mut • lotza souce & cheese 2.00 Milk, Orange Juice also avallable 
Plunkett, off the bench when Wil­
Hot Bevera-• .47 son suffered a hand injury, put DINNERS Coffee, Hot Chocolate, Hot Tea the Raiders on top with an 18-•1 Enchilada -beef 
•2 Macbo Taco SIDE ORDERS 
yard touchdown pass to Jesse 
French Frteo .99 Hester. Refrted Beano .99 
•3 
Mut Burrito 

•4 
Cheae Burrito It Taco 



with chill uuce .99Patriots 34, Dolphins 7 Nacho Cblpo .39 Guacamole -Fresh, Fmh, Fresh .89
Tony Eason threw two touch­
Sour Cream .25
down passes and New England 
Extra cheeae for anything .50 
scored on five of its six first-half 
possesssions as Miami fell to 1-4 

~c:tcJl(l~----------------------------------M-o-nd_a~-0-ct-ob-er-6,_19-86_._-p_ag_e_ll
Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 

W6U. TCf?f?Of({SM IS 1/f'... 7H€ eCONOMY IS WWN... ANP Pf/VfP t.ff'!MMAN'S 
ff?ONT ~Ulf II~ ~Till 5fl?~P!N6 1/PIIKT... 
W/lNNA KNOW WHRT I 7HINK 1 
'-
Beernuts 
HOW ffRftCTlY PtJCJPY Of YOf/ 7?J ~1/Y 7HIIT. IN fi1CT, 7711~ WIIJI£ WWN 11115 !J€EN 1/CT/NfJ PCfJPY tA-mlY. 
\ 

IN FIICi 1llt WHOlE ®NTl?Y HAS 0a'IG 7lJ !It'll IN II HIINP 511.5KfJT 
5/NC£ /1/IVIP UtWTH 
t.tfT 'VIW HfllttC 
\ 
Mark Williams 


Campus 
9:00 -I 0:00 a.m.: Jesus Seminar, CCE Auditorium, and Session for Associates, room TBA I 0:30 a.m. -12:30 p.m.: Jesus Seminar, CCE Auditorium, and Session for As­sociates continues 
2:00 -3:30 p.m.: Jesus Seminar, CCE Auditorium 
3:30 -5:00 p.m.: Computer Minicourses AppleWorks Database, I 08 computing center, limit 6; and, Introduction to SAS, Part I, I 15 Computing Center. To regis­ter, call Betty at 239-5604 
4:00 -5:00 p.m.: Jesus Seminar, CCE Auditorium 
6:00 p.m.: Presentatioll'Teception for all Arts &: Letters and Business Seniors and 2nd year MBA students interested in career opportunities with Leo Burnett Company, Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn 
7:00 
p.m.: Monday Night Film Series I "Diva," 1982, color, 123 minutes, Jean Jacques Beiniex, France, Annenberg Auditorium 

7:00 
-8:00 p.m.: Boston Club bus sign­ups for October break, $50 deposit re­quired toward total fee of $1 15, Morrissey Hall Lobby. Any questions, call Rick at 283-3504 


7:30 p.m.: African Studies Lecture, "South Africa: The Impact of Economic Sanctions," by Zelia Pillay, Vice­Chairman, United Kingdom Anti­Apartheid Movement, London. CSC 
9: 15 p.m.: Monday Night Film Series II "Psycho," 1960, Black and White, I 09 minutes, Alfred Hitchcock, USA, Annen­berg Auditorium 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Acted like Marceau 
6 Ivan or Peter 10 Moselle feeder 14-Gay 15 She: Fr. 16 The Kingston­17 "1-if I 
could" 18 Harvest 19 Verdi heroine 20 Noun ending 21 Barroom 
contestant 
at times 24 Showy flowers 26 Prevaricate 27 Ago 28 Crystalline 
mineral 33 Dialect 35 Sun hat 36 Caviar base 37 Charges 38 Removed rind 39 Storage 
containers 40 NRC prede­
cessor 41 Declaim 42 Desire 43 Formal essay 45 Mixer 46 "My country, 
-of thee..." 47 Extend 50 Infantryman 55 Period of note 56 Caen's river 57 Lunchtime 58 Forward 60 Employs 61 Grandiose 62 Philippine 
island 63 Helpless 64 Auberjonois 
of TV 65 Daggers of old 
DOWN 1 Sounded like a kitten 
2 "Coming­Wing and a Prayer" 

®1986 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
3 Lawyer 4 Building addition 5 Artistic 
movement 6 Contract items 7 Killed 8 Wing-like 9 Driven back 

10 Avers 11 Seed covering 12 Adjutant 13 Loud outcry 2'2 Betray 23 Faction 25 Asian country 28 Strong point 29 Fencing blade 30 Detective 10/4/86 31 Top-notch 39 Presage 49 Netnerworlel 32 Staff notation 41 Elevator man 50 Basketball 33 "-first you 42 Gathers no-no 
don't..." 44 Authenticate 51 Approximately 34 Stag or hart 45 Holy woman's 52 Wallet items 35 Chin. pagodas title: abbr. 53 Gait 38 "The-of 47 Because 54 Cheat 
Zenda" 48 Packing box 59 Fowl 


SAB sponsored USC TRIP Information Meeting 7:00pm Monday, October 6th ...---------Lower Level LaFortune---------­

* * Quad Roommate and Ticket Signups * * 

Monday, October 6, 1986, -page I 2 
S~orts 
Crimson Tide rolls to 28-10 victory over Irish 
Notre Dame joins growing list of NCAA ticket-violators 
~ 

Alabama's Cornelius Bennett (97) zeroes in Irish on Saturday. Marty Bums has the on Notre Dame tailback Mark Green (24) in game's details at right. and features the play the Crimson Tide's 28-10 victory over the of the highly-regarded Bennett below. 
Bennett sparks Alabama defense 
The Observer/Justin Smith 
By MARTY BURNS Assistant Sports Editor 
BIRMINGHAM, /\Ia. -He came like a Crimson Tidal Wave out of the Bermuda Triangle. 
Cornelius Bennett a.k.a. 'Bis­cuit' charged out from behind the Alabama defensive line, whipped past two surprised Notre Dame blockers, and let his 6-4, 235-pound mass sail full force into Irish quarterback Steve Beuerlein's chest. 
Ouch! Beuerlein, who was at­tempting to run a naked bootleg and who therefore never saw Bennett until immediately before impact, hit the ground horizon­tally and laid there for a few min­utes without moving. 
"I never saw anything, I just felt the hit," said a still-dazed Beuerlein after the game. "I re­membe~ getting up slowly and looking around. Everybody was talking to me but I couldn't hear their voices." 
Around Oklahoma, they call what Bennett did a 'Boz' in honor 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS-Notre Dame, along with three other Indiana schools-Ball State, Purdue and Indiana State-has been added to the growing list of universities with some football players in violation of an NCAA rule on the use ofcomplimentary tickets. 
In compliance with the NCAA guideline, each university has suspended com­plimentary game pass privileges for those athletes in violation. 
Indiana confirmed Wednesday that 26 of its football players had lost all or part of their four-ticket complimentary allot­ment for the season. 
When contacted by the Indianapolis News by telephone last Thursday, repre­sentatives from Notre Dame, Ball State and Purdue revealed that some of their players also were in violation. 
of bad-boy Sooner linebacker Brian Bosworth. Bennett, however, does not like to get too excited about great hits that dis­able players, as his main oppo­sition to the Outland and Butkus Trophies does in Oklahoma. Well, maybe he gets a little ex­cited. 
"WelL you know I don't try to hurt anybody but that's my job," said Bennett. "My mind was made up before the play started to go get him, and nobody picked me up. I just had a big smile the whole day because I really did have some fun today." 

"That hit he made?," asked teammate Curt Jarvis, who re­corded a 13-yard sack of his own that spoiled one Notre Dame drive. "That was probably one of the most vicious licks I've ever seen on a quarterback. I think that kind ofset the tempo for the rest of the day." 
Irish players were a bit more certain than Jarvis that Bennett's hit turned the momentum around for good. The capacity 
Notre Dame Athletic Director Gene Cor­
rigan said the figure was confidential, 
"but it was a fairly good number." 
Under last year's NCAA guidelines, each player was allotted four tickets per game, which he could distribute only to family members and fellow students. As an ex­ample, girlfriends who didn't attend the school were not eligible for a ticket. The athlete was not allowed to give the passes to anyone else or sell them. The players who violated the ticket rule lost one ticket per infraction, but did not lose any eligibility. 
"My viewpoint of NCAA rules is that you've got to do your darndest to stay within the framework." said King. "But you can stumble over some of those rules and not even know what you are doing sometimes and break 'em." 
"The whole thing irks me," said IU crowd of well over 75,000 literally shook the ancient rafters of Legion Field with delight at the hit, and then continued hol­lering while Beuerlein and Notre Dame stalled on the drive. That exuberance turned into absolute mayhem on the ensuing punt when 'Barna's Greg Richardson returned the kick 66 yards for a touchdown to put the Tide up for good at 7-0. Incidentally, the last player who had a shot at Rich­ardson, Irish punter Dan Soren­son, was taken out by -who else -Bennett. 
"Bennett and the whole team played extremely well," said Holtz. "His quickness, especially on the astroturf, is amazing. That (sack) really gave them the mo­mentum and excited that crowd." 
Things turned from bad to worse in the second half, as Ben­nett and crew really began penetrating toward whatever Notre Dame quarterback hap­pened to be in the game trying 
see BENNETT, page 9 
coach Bill Mallory. Wnen a Kid loses his tickets because of last year, it's a shame. It's a ridiculous rule. 
"It's been awhile since something has come out that has got me more uptight than this." 
"It's nit-picking," said Corrigan. "The regulation was designed to prevent players from selling tickets for a profit." 
None of the five Indiana schools was found in violation of selling tickets since the players never have possession of the actual tickets. Their guests are on a pass list. 
Still, Mallory said he had no qualms about players selling tickets. 
"They have four tickets and they can do what they want with them. Students will be out there selling them. They'll scalp 'em. If they've got some games where they can pick some extra bucks up on, I don't think there's anything wrong 
Alabama's impressive win was easy as one-two-three 
By MARTY BURNS Assistant Sports Editor 

BIRMINGHAM, Ala. -All in all, Alabama's 28-I 0 victory over Notre Dame was as simple as one-two-three. 
One punt return by speedy 'Bama wide out Greg Richardson, two crucial scores by even speedier 'Barna wide out AI Bell and three touchdown passes by senior quarterback Mike Shula added up to a Crimson Tide whipping over the Irish before 75,808 noisy Legion Field pa­trons. 
The impressive win upped second-ranked Alabama's season record to a perfect 5-0, while Notre Dame, still strug­gling to put all the pieces to­gether under Head Coach Lou Holtz, fell to 1-3. 
The big-play offense and spe­cial teams of the Crimson Tide may have put the points on the board and won the headlines, but it was a fine defensive effort on both sides of the ball that characterized the contest. And, ultimately, it was the stronger defense of Alabama, led by the incessant attack of Tide linebacker Cornelius Bennett, that pecided the ballgame. 
"I really must pay special trib­ute to a fine, fine Alabama foot­ball team," said Holtz. "They came prepared to play, and it 
Losing streak continues as soccer team drops pair 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame soccer team dropped two contests over the weekend. 
On Friday against Wiscon­sin, the Irish took a 1-0 lead on midifielder Rolfe Behrje's goaL but the Badgers scored twice and downed Notre Dame, 2-1. 
Yesterday the Irish traveled to JVIilwaukee to take on Mar­quette. The Warriors scored the first goal of the game, but 
_Notre Dame's Joe Sternberg evened the score at 1-1. Mar­quette, however, notched the 
with that. It's been going on a long time." 
Representatives from all five univer­sities felt the penalties were too severe for the crime. 
"I think we need to take a look at it after all of this has shaken down," said Corrigan. "I hate to see the players penalized for leaving a ticket for a friend, but unfortunately we had to take some tickets away." 
In one case at Notre Dame, a player left a ticket for a high school coach. As it turned out, the coach could have received a ticket from the Notre Dame coaching staff. 
"A family gets to be rather nebulous sometime," said King. "How far does fam­ily go? Stepfather? Common-law mother and father? It's a rule that needs to be looked at carefully to see that some legitimate people don't get penalized." 
was no nuke. The better team won today. 
"Bennett and the whole team can put tremendous pressure on you, and they forced us into a lot of turnovers." 
On the day, the Irish commit­ted five turnovers, two of which were promptly converted into touchdown scores for Alabama. The Crimson Tide, meanwhile, were hurt by only one of their three turnovers, when Irish quar­terback Steve Beuerlein con­nected with nanker Tim Brown on an eight-yard scoring pass after Shula had the ball jarred loose at his own I 1-yard line by Notre Dame linebacker Darrell Gordon. That touchdown pass pulled the Irish within a touch­down at 14-7, but it was as close as they would get. 
But, as has been the case all season for Notre Dame, mistakes in the kicking game and poor coverage on one or two plays al­lowed the stymied Alabama of­
fense  to  put  points  on  the  
scoreboard.  
"It  shouldn't  have  been  so  
high-scoring  because  the  

defense on both sides of the ball played hard," said Gordon. "But it was the one or two big plays we gave up that beat us. We shut down their run, but then the big play hurt us." 
see JRJSH, page 8 
game-winning goal with less than 20 minutes to play to give the Warriors a 2-I victory. 
This game, much like the Bowling Green contest was very physical, with 60 fouls and six yellow cards issued by the referee. 
The losses extended the team's losing steak to three games and left it with a 9-4 record. 
Notre Dame faces regionally-ranked Akron to­morrow on Alumni Field at 3 
p.m. This is the team's only home game in the month of October. 







