Record reviews -page 5 

VOL XX. NO. 12<; TUESDAY, APRIL 15, 19H6 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


United States attacks Libya to 'pre-empt' terrorist actions 
Associated Press Libyan people, with whom we have Asked what would happen iflibya 
no quarrel." was to retaliate for the air strikes, 
WASHINGTON The United Weinberger said the attacks were Shultz said, "What is clear tonight is States, acting to "pre-empt and dis­mounted against five targets near that the United States will take courage" Libyan terrorism; ex-Tripoli and Benghazi using IR F-Ill military action under certain cir­ecuted a series of bombers from U.S. bases in England cumstances." middle-of-the-night air strikes and I 5 A-6 and A-7 attack jets off "He counted on America to be against Libya, the White House an­Navy carriers America and Coral Sea. passive," Reagan said of Khadafy. 
nounced Monday night. President 

"He counted wrong." Reagan declared: "we have done Weinberger and Pentagon offi­
Areas hit by U.S. 
cials said the Air Force and Navy jets Defense Secretary Caspar what we had to do." 
had attacked these targets inside Weinberger said an Air Force F-Ill 
Libya: was unaccounted for, but there was 
• The AI Azziziyah barracks in 

no evidence it had been downed. Tripoli, described as "the main Libyan radio said three U.S. planes headquarters of Libyan planning and had been hit and the crew of one jet 
direction ofits terrorist attacks over­had been killed, after they were 
seas." downed, "by Libyan citizens." 
• The Sidi Bilal port facility, Reagan, in a nationally broadcast 
described as "a training base for address to explain the military 
Libyan commandos." strike, said the United States had 
• The military side of the Tripoli direct, precise and irrefutable Libya airport. Mter this area was atlacked,
Source: Associated Press 
evidence that Libyan leader Moam­

Observer Graphic Weinberger said all the lights at the mar Khadafy had ordered recent 
facility went out. The Pentagon said anti-American attacks, including the 
Deputy White House Press that section of the airpon is used "to bombing of a discoteque frequented 
Secretary Larry Speakes described transport military and subversive by servicemen in West Berlin. 
the targets as Libya's "terrorist in­material around the world." 
"When our citizens are abused or frastructure-the command and con­• The AI Jumahiriya barracks in attacked anywhere in the world, we 

trol systems, intelligence, Benghazi. This was described as "an will respond in self defense," Reagan 
communications, logistics and train­alternate command post to the AI said. In an unmistakeable warning to 
ing facilities." Azziziyah barracks." Khadafy, he said: "if necessary, we 
Secretary of State George Shultz, • And the Benina military airfield. will do it again." 
appearing with Weinberger in the The Pentagon said this target was hit 
Knowledgeable officials said White House briefing room just after for "military suppression purposes" Khadafy's headquarters was one tar­Reagan's Oval Office statement, said to ensure no efforts were made by get of the raid. Reagan himself the Soviet Union was told of the the Libyans to attack American 
described the attacks as operation as it was taking place and planes. 
"concentrated and carefully tar­was assured it was "in no way geted to minimize casualties among directed at the Soviet Union." 
Congresswoman to speak at SMC graduation 
Special to the Observer committee, who asked to remain contacted towards the end of the previously received honorary 
unnamed. summer. degrees from Sacred Heart llniver­
Rt·p. Barbara Kennelly will he the First, all juniors, faculty members Kennelly;s background includes sity in 1981, Mount Holyoke College 191-16 Saint Mary's commencement and various contingents of the Col­serving as secretary of the state of in 1984 and the University of speaker. lege are sent a letter asking their Hartford in 1985. 
Kt·nnelly, a democratic congres­opinion on who the commence­
Kennelly received a bachelor of swoman from the first district of ment speaker should he for the fol­arts degree in economics from Connecticut sint·e 191-12, serves on lowing year, she said. After the list Is Trinity College in Washington D.C. the IIoust· Ways and Means Commit­compiled. it is presented to the and completed the Harvard­tee and its suhn>mmittcs on Seln·t Academic Affairs Council. which is Radcliffe program in business ad­Revt·nut· Mt·asurt·s and Public Assis­made up of students, faculty and ad­ministration. She then earned her tanet· and llnemploymcnt Com­ministration members. master's degree in government from pensation. The council sifts through the Trinity College in Hartford. 
In addition to her responsibilities nominees and decides on ap­At the graduation ceremonies, the on the Ways and Means Committee, proximately 60 candidates whom College will also present honorary Kenndly is also a member of the they will recommend to the Board degrees to Samuel Adler and lloust· Democratic Steering and of Regents. At their spring meeting, Georgie Anne Geyer. Adler, a com­Policy Commince. She serves on the the board discusses the commence­poser, conductor and educator, will Exee~uivc Committee of the Arms ment speaker candidates and receive an honorary of fine arts Control and Foreign Policy Caucus, decides on the top candidates to be degree. Geyer, a syndicated colum­the Export Trade Caucus, the chosen. nist, author, foreign correspondent,
Rep. Barbara Kennelly 

Caut·us for Women's Issues and the The board then approves a slate of speaker and educator, will receive 
Democratic Study Group. nominees larger th.an what is neces­Connecticut and she was a member an honorary doctor of letters 
Tht• sclct·tion of the commence­sary to leave room for those persons of the Hartford Court of Common degree. ment speaker begins as early as who have previous commitments, Council. Saint Mary's will reward· Commencement exercises are January of the preceeding yt·ar, said the secretary said. The persons are Kennelly with an honorary doctor of scheduled for Saturday, May I 7 at the seut·tary of the commencement listed in order of preference and are laws degree. Kennelly has noon in the court of Lemans Hall. 
Notre Dame Security officer uses CPR to save elderly man 
By MARK PANKOWSKI last night in the cardiac care unit at versity. "It was very pleasing to see compressing his chest, the 30-year­News Editor St. Joseph's Medical Center, a that my training and position (as an old officer spotted a maintenance nurse said. McNamara was visit­officer) may have lengthened his man standing nearby. Araman said "I'm not looking for glory or to be ing from California, said Rakow. life." he told the maintenance man to a hero," said Joseph Araman last Araman helped bring McNamara Mter receiving a call from the dis­check for any doctors in the dining night. Yet tht· Notre Dame Security back to life by administering car­patcher at approximately 9 a.m., room at the Inn, "We hit the jackpot. officer might just be a hero. diopulmonary resuscitation to the Araman said he found McNamara There were three doctors there," he 
Araman. a six-year veteran of the elderly man, who had collapsed and collapsed in front of the Morris Inn. said. Notrt• Dame force, is credited in part was showing no vital signs, Araman Because the elderly man was not The first of the three unidentified with saving the life of an elderly said. breathing and had no pulse, Araman doctors to arrive helped Araman 
ht·art attack victim yt-sterday mor­"I'm not a doctor but I had to use immediatdy began CPR, he said. administer CPR, he said. A brieftime ning, according to Security Director the best skills I had," said Araman, "The initial minutes were the later, Araman said he and the doctor Rex Rakow. who learned CPR in a police most important," recalled Araman. began to feel a pulse and saw the 
The 7'5-year-old victim, John academy and takes a refresher As Araman continued alternately McNamara, was in serious condition course every two years at the Uni-blowing air into the man's lungs and see SAVE, page 4 
see LIBYA, page 4 


SMC fire damages art studio 
By MARGIE KERSTEN 
5aint Mary's Editor 
An early -morning fire in Moreau Hall at Saint Mary's caused between 13,000 and S4,000 in damage,but no injuries were reported, said Richard Chlebek, Saint Mary's safety and security dire·ctor. 
Saint Mary's housekeeping dis­covered the tire at 7: I'5 yesterday morning, and the South Bend Fire 
Department,  Notre  Dame  Fire  
Department  and  Saint  Mary's  
security  all  responded  at  ap­ 

proximately 7:23 to contain the fire. 
The fire occurred in room 326 Moreau and was contained to that room, according to Chlebek. 
The room is an art studio used by four painting students, ac­cording to Bill Sandusky, assis­tant professor and coordinator of the art gallery at Saint Mary's. 
Chlebek said the fire was started by a smoldering cigarette that was left on a couch. Light fixtures, the couch, some shelves and two paintings were damaged in the fire, and the room sus­tained smoke and water damage as well, according to Sandusky. Sandusky said the four art stu­dents share the studio for their paintings, and all four have keys to the room. He did not speculate (m the cause of the fire. 

Tuesday, April 15, 1986-page 2
The Observer 


In Brief 
A referendumwill be conducted in which graduate stu­dents will be given a chance to express their opinions on Notre Dame's South African investments. The Graduate Student Unionwill mail ballots to graduate students who will vote on whether or not Notre Dame should divest from South Africa. The ballots which are returned by April 30 will be included in the referendum results which will be presented to the Board of Trustees. The Graduate Student Union chose to mail the ballots after receiving a low voter turnout at a referendum held on March 14. -The Observer. 
Of Interest 
The first annual organ donation pledge card sign-ups will be held tomorrow during lunch at both dining halls. -The Observer 
An TOStal'S "Kisser" registration will take place in the center atrium of LaFortune today from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. For more information contact the AnTostal Office at 239-6244.-The Observer 
Ushers are neededfor all productions of"The Way of the Cross" April 17, 18, 19 and 24, 25, 26. All interested may sign up in Room 320 O'Shaughnessy. -The Observer 
Cap and Gown measurements for all graduating seniors will be taken today and tomorrow from 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame Bookstore. -The Observer 
Six skills for executiveswill be discussed at a semi­nar conducted by two officials of Bennett's Information Group, a research and consulting firm to many Fortune 500 companies. The seminar, titled, "Creating Excellence: Managing Corporate Culture, Strategy and Change in the New Age" will be tomorrow night at 7 in the Center for Continuing Education auditorium. The six skills to be discussed are creative insight, sensitivity, vision, versatility, focus and patience. The seminar is open to the public and is sponsored by the College of Business Administration, Oaklawn Center, Elkhart Truth and First National Bank of Elkhart.-The Observer 
Handicapped persons and other interested people will give testimony on issues regarding developmental disabilities to the members of the State of Indiana Protection and Advocacy Service Commission tonight at 7. The commission members will hear testimony on the third floor of the Cpmmerce Building, 40I E. Colfax St. Anyone concerned about handicapped issues is welcome to testify. A report on handicapped issues will be presented to the Indiana General Assembly. -The Observer 
"Dante ' s Acheronor Everyman's Death is the title of a . lecture to be given by Professor Dino Cervigni today at 4:30p.m. in Room 242 O'Shaughnessy Hall. All are invited to attend this lecture sponsored by ND/SMC Oub Italia as a part ofltalian Culture Week. ­
The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and In Briefs may be sub­mitted at the Observer office on the third floor ofLaFortune Student Center until 3 p.m. prior to the date ofpublication. Of Interests an­nounce free campus-wide events of general interest. The Observer 

reserves the right to edit all submitted materials. ­

Weather 
Deluges and dribbleSwill oc­cur as there is a 40percent chance ofrain falling on today's second round of Bookstore Basket­ball. It does not get any better with a chance of snow showers tonight and lows near 30. Tomorrow might be a little warmer as highs ap­proach 50. -AP 
___ --=-.1-= ----.L-=-Y~, -. ---·
'"'=he-Obse~1ier---·­
Design Editor .............Jane Anne Rledford Design Assistant ............... Tracy Schildele Typesetters ......................Suzanne Hammer 
Mary Ellen Harrington News Editor .......................John A. Mennell Copy Edltors ................................... Jim Riley 
Tripp Baltz Phil Wolf Mary Ellen Harrington Sports Copy Editors ................ Marty Burns 
PeteGeegan VIewpoint Copy Editor ...... Eric Bergamo VIewpoint Layout.......... Melinda Murphy Features Copy Editor :.........Eric Bergamo Features Layout.................Sharon Emmite ND Day Edltor.........................Ib.y Sfransky AdDeslgn .................... Catherine Ib.msden 
Jeanne Grammens Photographer ........................ Drew Sandler Typist .................................... Sarah Hamilton 
The Observer ( l'SPS ~99 2-~000) is published Monda)' through Frida)' ext·ept durin!! exam and vacation ~riods. The Observer is published h)' the students ofthe t·niver.it) of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased fur JW per year ( JlO ~r semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana ~6~~6. 
1be Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction riKhts are resrrved. 
The Observer 


Separation of work and pleasure is key to successful relationships 
Do working relationships work? 

According to Time magazine, "Women make up nearly half of the U.S. Labor Force." Because a high percentage of women work, conditions that allow on­the-job romance to prosper are close to optimal today. Either directly or indirectly, the office relationship is an issue that all who are employed may face, from those with a part-time job to partners in a law firm. But should you get involved? 
Those who play it safe say no. After all, dating someone at work creates a host of new problems for which few answers are based on experience. 
According to the March issue ofThe Wall Street jour­nal, office relationships affect "productivity, turnover, promotions and morale." When the relationship is com­mon knowledge around the water cooler, any promo­tion in which an employee's partner is involved can be seen as a case offavoritism. Demotions or terminations can be seen as the result ofa romance gone awry. 
Negative attitudes about an affair at work are another n drawback. People don't al-V (} ways respect those who let busine!!S and pleasure mix, \7 and partners could lose credibility and be seen as unprofessional. 
Ambitious co-workers are also a problem. Always ready to befriend the partner of the boss, these people would do anything to better their position, even if it means manipulating ot­hers to get their ideas to the top. 

The relationship itself may suffer due to its work­orientation. The couple is in constant contact, making it difficult to keep private and work lives separate. Com­petition between partners can cause conflict, and bring­ing office-related problems home, such as promotions, firings and differences over how projects should be handled can create nastiness and easily end the liason. Even when the relationship is over, the couple are still stuck seeing each other regularly, which could make working together very uncomfortable. 
Yet, Fortune magazine says "office romances are on the rise," so all these concerns don't seem to be stop­ping everyone. To some, an office romance may be worth it. 
The sexes work together on projects as a team, complement each other's performances, and attend office-related social events, thus putting men and women in constant contact,and giving . employees a chance to get to know each other. Teamwork inspires special bonds, and appreciation of a fellow employee's expertise creates respect. All of these factors, as well as 
Thanks toyou... itworks... forALLOFUS 

•Unlliedway 

Cathy Coffey 
Assistant Accent Editor 
the fact that co-workers already have a lot in common ­education, interests, abilities-increase the likelihood of a relationship developing. 
"The office romance may be a matter of con­venience," says the Wall Street Journal, especially for those who work 60 or 70 hours a week. Working long hours doesn't allow much time for a social life outside the office. This, along with the close contact in a working environment and the natural desire for a romantic relationship, make dating a fellow employee 
an ideal situation for some people. 
A practice called "cloaking" by Psychology Today helps "avoid the heavy bargaining and es­calating expectations that attend regular romances," making it even easier to date a co-worker. Away from judgmental friends, family and fellow employees, the pair 'cloak' their relation­ship behind what appears to be regular business meetings. By not altering the usual routine, they can see each other fairly frequently and openly before un­suspecting eyes. This secrecy contributes to a 

feeling that the pair share something special; something that is just between the two of them. This "specialness" can increase the intensity of the relationship, making it more important and possibly leading to something per­manent. 
Professionalism is the key to maintaining the office relationship. Dating a co-worker has its disadvantages, but a very promising relationship can come of it. The couple need to separate their office and personal lives, maintain a friendship that comes before all else, and agree to make office-related decisions independent of their personal feelings. 
If they can keep the affair out of the office, then they should go for it. If they can't, maybe they should find other positions. Jobs can be found elsewhere, but a good relationship is hard to find. 



Focus On America's 

Future~~ 
Summer Fall Spring 

WASHINGTON OR LONDON INTERNSHIPS OXFORD su1~:SER 
Full Academic Years In 
• 
Oxford University 

• 
L.S.E. 

• 
St. Andrews, Scotland 


U.S. credits will be transferred through Hampden-Sydney College, founded in Virginia by James Madison in 1776. Graduate work is an option. The Director of Studies for the Center for Quality Education Abroad (in Britain) is the Rt. Hon. The Lord Beloff, D.Litt. (Oxon.), Fellow of the British Academy, Professor Emeritus of Government and Fellow of All Souls, Oxford. INQUIRIES TO: JANET KOLLEK, J.D., Admissions Director CQEA/ WISC, Rm 53, 158 W. 81 St., 
NY,NY, 10024. (212·724·0804/724-0136). 
(EO/AA) 

Cava-tmt«Jh HaU Productions 
presents 

!t.s-~ttit an~ ®1~ lat~ 
April 1 7. 18. 19 8:00pm Memorial Ubrary Auditorium Donations to the Andy Sowder Fund will be accepted at the door Preseo b · ent wi Dnmw t Pia Service 
Applications Available---.... 
for----------------------~
the 1987 Dom~------... 
Photography Editor 
Copy Editor 
Section Editors 
Business Manager 
Applications In Student Activities Office (8:30·4:30) first floor Lafortune 

*applications due by 2pm, Monday Aprll21 at the Student Activities Office 
*EVERYONE ENCOURAGED TO APPLY* 
The Observer Tuesday, April 15, 1986-page 3 

Fire swept through Room 346 of Moreau Hall at Saint Mary's yesterday morning causing between Sj,OOO and S4,000 damage. Story on page 1. 

Symposium keys on social teaching 
ByTIMCLARK 
News Staff 
Authorities on Catholic social teaching are discussing the United States Catholic Bishops Letter on the Economy at a symposium continu­ing today in the Center for Continu­ing Education. The symposium, "Catholic Social Teaching and the Common Good," is sponsored by the Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business. 
The conference stresses par­ticularly the idea of the common good, according to Father Oliver Williams, co-convener of the sym­posium. Williams said while the common good is an ancient biblical notion, the bishops suggest a revival of this idea. 
Following the introductory dis­cussion yesterday, the speakers in­vestigated the concerns of religious people and the ramifications of the common good in today's capitalistic business world. 
"We tend to be very individualis­tic in today's business world, which isn't necessarily bad," said Williams. "However, we must begin to move toward more community-oriented values." 
The bishops' "preferential option for the poor" will receive particular attention as an aspect of the com­mon good, for as the gap between the poor and the rest of the nation widens, morality in business practices takes on increasing impor­tance, according to co-convener Professor John Houck. 

"We must begin to consider issues such as the level of employment with respect to the young, disabled and poor," Houck said. 
"The convention takes on par· ticular importance now, at a time when the fundamentalist and neo­conservativist positions seem well defined," he said. "Now we as the middle ground must establish the issues that belong on the social justice agenda, define the common good as a challenge and ask tough questions." 
The results of the conference should affect the bishops' upcoming letter on the economy as well as stimulate thought among the mem· bers of the business world, accord­ing to Williams. 
"We have assembled a respected group of experts with a very wide and differentiated range ofinfluence who will have an impact on day-to­day religious and social thought," Williams said. 
Yesterday's events were high­lighted by Public Broadcasting Com­pany producer Betty Jean Bullert's talk on the role of the media in 

yet it still runs hundreds ofprograms that will help take the work out of your homework. 
'Jflen,as your course-load grows, you can upgrade your enhanced Macintosh 512K to aPlus. 
Ofcourse, both Macintosh computers employ our point-and­click mouse technology that makes them so easy to use, its almost like cheating. 
Which means yvu can imme­diately do useful things, without going back to remedial computing. 
Demonstrations are being
Macintosh 
held at your campus microcomputer
Plus 
center . 


Who'll gladly answer any questions, including the one your parents 
will ask: 




.1/tlcinlmi.l!'/iLI'.Ibe mon•pmmjill.llacinlrAI'b. J/tiCJIJ/ao;b 512K tbe more ajfbrtlttb!e Macinto.sb. 
New Low Pricing on Macintosh 512K/Macintosh Plus Uparades Now Available 
University of Notre dame faculty, staff anCI students can buy Macintosh 
computers at discounted prices from the Notre Dame Computer Store. For 
further Information, Inquire at Computing Center, rm.25, 9·5, m·f. Phone:239·7477 
Heres amultiple choice quiz you can't fail. 
Should you buy aMacintosbTM Plus personal computer? Or our newly enhanced Macintosh 512K personal computer? 
TI1e answer, ofcourse, depends. 
If you believe in student power, yvu'll want our new Macintosh Plus. It has one full megabyte ofRAM.128K of ROM. And adouble-sided 800K internal disk drive. 
'franslated, that means Macintosh Plus can plot acalculus function or footnote aterm paper in the time it took you to read this sentence. 
Especially now that weve added anumeric keypad and four cursor keys to the newly-designed keyboard. 
On the other hand, ifyou don't need all these capabilities right now, we suggest our enhanced Macintosh 512K. 
Its considerably less expensive, 
promoting the common good. This morning's session covered "Perspectives on the Common Good" and included such luminaries as Professor Ralph Mclnery from Notre Dame and Gar Alperovitz of the Center for Economic Al­ternatives in Washington D.C. 
The r~mainder of today's session will deal with "Theology and the Common Good"; the schedule for this afternoon is as follows: 
• 
3:00 Charles Curran of the Cat­holic University ofAmerica and RJc. hard John Neuhaus the director of the Center on Religion and Society. 

• 
7:00 Frank Reilly, the dean of the College of Business Administra· tion at Notre Dame and University President Father Theodore Hes­burgh. 


Tomorrow's session will deal with "The Common Good and Contem­porary Practice"; the schedule fol­lows: • H:4S AM J. Phillip Wogaman ofthe Wesley Theological Seminar, Richard DeGeorge of the University of Kansas and David Vogel of the University of California at Berkley. 
Because of the conference's potential importance, it will receive fairly heavy, national media atten­tion from periodicals throughout the United States. The conference is open to the public. 
Senate goals addressed at meeting 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI 
Copy Editor 
The "crayon" administration of Student Body President Mike Switek and Student Body Vice President Don Montanaro addressed the goals of the Student Senate at the first meeting of its term last night. 
"The senate, as a whole, will address the campus-wide things and the smaller issues will be handled in the (senate) districts," Switek said. 
District Two Senator John Gar­diner said the senate needs to gain visibility. "I think we should put the (campus-wide) issues aside for a while and get some visibility so that people can relate to us," he said. Gar­diner suggested getting the senate involved in social activities. 
District One Senator Brian Holst disagreed with Gardiner. ''I don't think it's important to become visible," Holst said, "as long as we get the job done." 
"The Student Senate, in the past, whether it was their fault or not, has had a really bad image on campus," said Switek. "What we would like to do is make a strong effort to Improve the Image of the senate on campus." 
Switek said he would like to make the senate "more leisurely," not using such things as Robert's Rules of Order. 
The previous senate used Robert's Rules of Order to guide their par­limentary procedure. 
Holst, although not specifically advocating the use of Robert's Rules ofOrder, said the senate needs some procedural rules. "I think it would be an advantage to have a set ofrules to fall back on in certain situations," he said. 
He cited an example in which some senate members would want to end debate while others want to continue it. He said the senate would need rules to govern this. 
"I think it will limit controversey, not cause controversey," Holst said. "I think there's a stigma with Robert's Rules of Order. It's a simple set of guidelines. I don't see how it could hurt us to have a set of rules that cover every situation." 
Senior Class President-elect Dave Miklos said he disagreed with Holst. "The student body president was br.o~t in on a different image. To go right back to Robert's Rules ofOr­der would be ridiculous," he said. 


Tuesday, April 15, 1986-page 4

The Observer 
Was the president right in his attack on Libya? 
Photos and interviews by Drew Sandler 




n 'rea-r'? 
8 ac1.l. .1 
GUN SHOW MODERN & antique guns & knives  
attheACC  
Apri119 &20  
admission $2.00  

Reagan has been and always will be a war-monger; he is counting on not being attacked in U.S. territory. 
Elaine P.Jackson Senior Architecture Notre Dame 

I think the President had good reasons, but I hate to see violence used. 
UzGafvert Sophomore Mechanical engineering Notre Dame 
Until we find out the retaliatory actions taken by Khadafy, Presi­dent Reagan's decisive attacks are leaving the U.S. embassies in precarious situations. 
cathy Ann Reynolds Senior English Saint Mary's 

Libya 
continuedfrom page 1 
According to the Pentagon, the first three sites in the above list are located around Tripoli. The latter two are located on the other side of the Gulf ofSidra near Benghazi. 
Weinberger indicated the Air Force F-I I l's had been assigned to hit the targets around Tripoli, while the Navy attack jets concentrated on Benghazi. 
The president said "evidence is now conclusive" that recent ter­rorist incidents had occurred on "orders sent from Tripoli." He said intelligence had blocked one "planned massacre" involving the use ofgrenades and small arms to at­tack Americans waiting in line for visas in France. 
Speakes would not discuss casualties or damage. He said "we took every precaution" to ensure that no civilians would be injured or killed. 
Khadafy's headquarters near Tripoli was among the targets of the American strike, which occurred at 2 a.m. Wednesday, Tripoli time. 
Speakes briefing was telecast live on network news shows at 7:20p.m. 
Save 
continuedfrom page 1 
man. was breathing slightly. The ot­her two physicians in the diningroom then appeared on the scene, and the three doctors took over until the ambulance arrived moments later, Araman said. 
The elderly man was taken to St. joseph's Medical Center, where Araman visited him 45 minutes later. "I took a peek at him, and he seems to be okay," said Araman. 
Despite his help in reviving McNamara, Araman seemed modest about his role in bringing a man back to life. "I'm not looking for glory or to be a hero," he said. But, he ad­mitted, "lfl hadn't done anything, he wouldn't have lived." 
UNITED ACTION FOR ANIMALS 
205 EAST 42ND STREET NEW YORK, N.Y. 10017 

Accent 
Tuesday, April 15, 1986-page 5 
All Rise is hard core at its best 
TIM ADAMS 
features writer 

Y
·ah. I've found the record. One to kill cats by. One that kicks out all the jams. One to listen to on top ofa dingy apartmt:nt building when you're puking drunk and you're feelingpissed. 
'lhe record in question is the new one by Chicago's Naked Raygun, and it's called All Rise. It's the kind ofalbum that makes you glad you 
Records 


,...._., All Rise ~''\ icicicic (out offour) 
started listening to punk in the first place. It's hard yet accessible, doesn't insult your intelligence, and still provides more thrills per minute than any album released in tht· pa.~t six months. 
Take, for example, "!lome of the Brave," the album's first cut. As soon as john Haggerty's opening power chords rip through the air and Eric Spicer's drums ignite this puppy, you can feel how exciting Naked Raygun's music really is. jeff Pezzati, one of the coolest frontmen in the biz, sings a tale about people who may have suffered a little bit in the "home of the brave." Though lacking in lyrical complexity, the song is my favorite one here. With a tune as downright catchy as this, you can't argue. 
Basically, All Rise is divided up into I) the songs, like "Home of the Brave," that snag your ear instantly and 2) the "bad-ass" songs like "Peacemaker" and "Mr. Gridlock" which threaten to kick your butt and then spit on you for good measure. 
lhe first group of tunes, which includes the anti-trendy anthem "Backlash jack," consists of the songs that cause Naked Raygun fans to go bonkers, slamming into each other with much gusto. The second group lets the audience wallow knee-high in filth, down "The Strip" where there are "girls girls girls" and an "all-nude revue," and finally to a visit with the "Peacemaker," who will unemotionally inform you, "I am the peacemaker ... you're · scum, that is all." 
Naked Raygun's members ac­tually are normal guys, even though some of their songs do depict the darker side oflife. Many people find tlleir message inspiring, in fact, because they show you how ridiculous that darker side can be· it's obvious that this peacemaker dude is a fascist loser. 
In the LP's closing song, "New Dreams," Pezzati screams out "I got new dreams and I'm gonna make 'em real!" Naked Raygun generally doesn't go for any big political message or manifesto, but I guess you could take this to be their per· sonal credo. Take it to heart, be­cause this is one hell ofan album. 

~· ~"""''"''"'~'1\ffi'%¥\J !fl*4*1AU$.::JE!it!&4¢ QMHW XAJ;:pi, ;;; ,.,~..,.,..
.' ' 1 ., ...., 
' .·'. 
... 


Music that is over done and watered dOwn 
TOM TIERNEY 
ft•atures u'rlter 

T
>tal Contrast's latest album, Total Contrast. is a record that pt-rsonit1es what is wrong with the Amerit·an and British pop charts. These charts are ttlled with slickly producnl songs that, under their surface, have little or no substance, 
Records 
!otal Contrast 

1
\~ rfl'ic (outollour) 

while there are a numbt·r of under­ground bands with a lot of heart that are getting little or no airplay. 
lhis is true especially in England, where there has not been a sig· nificant new youth movement since ska died out in 19Hl·'H2. As a result, the current scene there is pop­ulated with a number of bands playing an over-done and watered­down mixture ofsoul and rhythm and blues. Total Contrast fit this mold almost perfc('tly. 
lhis LP has been so well produced by Steve Harvey that almost all traces of hard work and sweat have been removed. Even in the picture on the cover of tl1e album, there is no hint of any dirt or even any instruments, just a pair of squeaky-dean men who look like they haven't worked a day in their lives. 
The only aspect of this album that saves it from the trash bin is that, surprisingly, there are a couple of good songs on this record, which happen to be the two singles. The only problem is that the other six songs used to fill out the album sound disturbingly similar to the two singles. 
The first single, "Takes a Little Time," is the tale ofa man who had thought that love had passed him by, until a beautiful woman enters the room. Suddenly, he believes in love at first sight, although he ack­nowledges that it will probably take a little time for her to come around. 
In "Hit and Run," the second single, the singer, Robin Acham­pong, takes the point ofview of a friend desiring to be more than that, who is watching and advising a woman on her relationship with 
another man. He tells her that the 
other man will just hit and run, 
while insinuating that he will al­
ways be there for her. 
Each of these songs has a similar style, with funky rhythm tracks and smooth bass lines by the other member of the duo, Delroy Murray, that dominate the melody. Guitar and keyboards are then layered, quite sparsely, on top of the bass. The actual lyrics to these songs are generally simple and consist ofbad metaphors and over-used cliches, and they do not deserve to be quoted here. 
As a result, these two songs seem to have been written with the pop charts expressly in mind. They both did quite well on the British charts; it remains to be seen how well they do in America. I do not see how they could go wrong, unless some other even more slickly produced and smooth-sounding songs take their place. The saddest thing is that I like both of the singles and would be happy to hear either of them on top-40 radio. 


Candy Apple Grey is golden indeed 
TOM BRANNIGAN The first side opens with "Crystal" The second side is a force in itself. 
features u 'rl fer which never really gets on track, but The five songs are subtle and laid 
from that point on the album is out­back in places, but always forceful 
Husker Du has finally lived up to standing. Bob Mould and Grant Hart and emotionally grabbing. On "No all its critical acclaim and put toget· are the two creative forces behind Promise Have I Made" Hart sings,//I her a great album. Candy Apple Grey the band and share the vocal respon­could change my mind, what will easilv be one the best albums sibilities along with the production changes would it bring 
credit. Their lyrics deal with pain of If I could change you, well it 
. Records 

some sort or another, whether it be wouldn't change a thing 
broken relationships ("Don't Want Well now you know and shouldn't
Candy Apple 

to Know if Your Lonely"), difficulty be afraid 
~. \~ Grey . 
in dealing with feelings ("I Don't No promise haveI made \'\ ~ ......ieie (out offour) Know for Sure"), depression ("Too 
Oh, but don't worry, Husker Du

Far Down"), death ("Hardly Gettingrdcased this year. Lofty praise, still works itself into a good scream,
Over It") and shallowness ("Eiffelindeed. but it is well deserved. but it is well placed and not heaped
Tower 1-ligll''). In the past, Husker Du had always upon the listener. The result is a very been a band ofexcess with too much The album is a regular compen· even and consistent album with distortion, too much speed and too dium ofthe grayer aspects oflife, but balanced highs and lows. much depression to achieve anyth· as the title points out, there is anot· Obviously, a lot of time and ing more than a cult following. The her side. The music, unlike some thought went into the making ofthis band had, however, established it· past Husker Du albums, is not a pain· album. Candy Apple Grey took four sdf as dedicated musicians with ful grind of distortion. There is well months to record. This comesfrom a plenty of potential. That was enough crafted acoustic guitar, along with group that recorded a double album to get signed by Warner Bros., and subtle keyboards and even popish in three days. Husker Du has although this album won't burn up vocals. The result is a musical mood definitely matured into a band to be the charts, it establishes Husker Du that makes the grayness of the reckoned with. This album is one of a.~ one of the best American bands record not only listenable but those that gets better and better the around today. meaningful. more it is heard. 


~i~~~_<>__i_ll___t__________________T_ue-sda-y,_~_ril-15_,1_98_6_-pa-ge-6 
Doonesbury 
YES, fT'5 71/YfefOR "5U3AZE ON PARAIJI3v! LET'S 5TAI<Talf!H 
ReAGAN APPOINT£313S {,(JHO R&SIGN&/l OR {,(JIJR& RR&l? fOUOtU!NG OfAR613S OF L1!6AI­OR eTHICAl. M/5[[;W/lUCT/ 
HERE /AI£ GO...•mA LAV£3tl..&, JOSEPH CANZERJ, t/){}1~ COR­/JIA,MIOIAE/... CAR£Jf3NA?, !UfSielA.PWMM&I<, MARY ANN 6/U/ZCE, R<&/JJ. V!l.­ta..LA, LOU!~ 0. 6/UFF~/lA..." 
I 

Garry Trudeau 
tVANTM& 
llJTAI</3 A 911FT? 
l 
Quote of the day 
"Nothing in this world is cer­tain but death and taxes." 
Benjamin Franklin· (1706 -1790) 

Students have duty to donate vital organs 
The results of the 1985 survey offreshmen The death rate for persons in our age group at private colleges show that Notre Dame stu­is low, but 56 percent of those deaths are dents demonstrate a strong reverence for life. caused by accidents. Because people in the 18 According to findings reported by the to 24 age group have not lived long enough to American Council on Education and the Uni­be ravaged by the illnesses that afflict our versity of California at Los Angeles, only 28.2 elders, we are prime candidates to become or­percent of Notre Dame's current freshmen gan donors if we are involved in fatal acci­class supports legalized abortion, as opposed dents. to 57 percent of all first-year collegians sur­The need for organs suitable for donation veyed. purposes is consistently high. Last summer I 
worked with the Transplant Foundation of New Jersey, one of the 180 organizations

PaulVetter 
engaged in securing pledges of anatomical gifts and arranging the actual transplants. I will 

guest column 
never forget the computer screen as it dis­played the thousands of names of people 

Additionally, a higher proportion( 35.7 per­awaiting organs throughout the United States. cent) ofNotre Dame freshmen favor abolition At any given time, approximately 8,000 ofour ofthe death penalty than dofirst-year st4dents fellow Americans are in need of a compatible in all private colleges across the nation ( 29.8 heart, liver, kidney or pancreas. percent). 
These findings are consistent with previous When I learned that only 24.1 percent of surveys, which have indicated a deep-seated the people between the ages of 18 and 24 had tradition of respect for life on the part ofstu­signed organ donations pledge cards, I dents at Notre Dame. decided to try and help close the gap with the 
This week we will have another oppor­drive organized for this week. tunity to demonstrate in dramatic fashion our I am hopeful that other colleges and univer­concern for life, as the Students for Organ sities will emulate the action initiated here at Transplants conducts its first drive for Notre Dame, where our student body has signatures on organ donation pledge cards. traditionally played a leadership role among Organized this year, the club is, to my college students. knowledge, the first ofits kind on any college If the movement launched here in South campus in the nation. Bend does spread to other campuses, it will 
I regard it as entirely appropriate for such a have struck a resounding blow for life. All it movement to have its genesis here at Notre takes is a signature and a willingness to make a Dame. As students at a Roman Catholic uni­commitment to help others to live. Such a versity, we have a special duty to respect and commitment could be this student body's las­cherish the sanctity of life. There can be no ting legacy to others who follow in its more meaningful and effective way of fulfill­footsteps under the Golden Dome. ing this responsibility than to pledge our own organs so that others can live in the event of Paul Vetter is a sophomore in the College of our death. Arts andLetters. 
P.O.BoxQ 
to be "where the Catholic Church does its thinking," and is a bitter disappointment to

'Silliness' of protests 
those of us who have come to Notre Dame

need not occur at ND expecting to reconcile its professed lofty 
ideals with commensurate actions, or history DearEditor: will show that at a time at which the Univer­
I am writing in response to two articles sity was challenged to respond in a Catholic which appeared on the front page of the April manner to the grave injustices committed in 11th edition of The Observer, which dealt South Mrica, it chose for reasons best known respectively with Fr. Theodore Hesburgh's to itself, to support the kind ofevil that Christ response to Fr. van Rensburg's fast and Res­gave his life to eliminate. burgh's and William Hickey's signing ofmock­passbooks in protest of apartheid in South Philiplau Africa. FisherHall 
It is extremely disturbing that an institution such as ours, which so loudly and publicly , 
proclaims its Catholic faith, we demur from Vandalism not solution 
meaningful and effective responses to issues such as apartheid and instead massage our col­
to 'eyesore' memorial 

lective conscience with perfunctory acts of 'solidarity' such as signing mock-passbooks. DearEditor: That such abject silliness can take place in the If the War Memorial was not an eyesore face of so dire a situation as the one which before, it certainly is now. I guess we can exists in South Africa is a damning indictment thank the thoughtful individual(s) for doing of the state of the Catholic faith at Notre us such a great favor. We can also thank them Dame. for the extra cost now involved in the<:lean­
The University's somewhat unconventional up of the structure. logic behind its continued involvement in I'm not thrilled about" Stonehenge" either, South Africa and its unwillingness to accept but its vandalization is way out ofline. the moral bankruptcy of its present position AndrewFena does not speak well for the place which claims Cavanaugh Hall 

ffi\V[l OVERSEAS 1M C(M~IlTE SflfETY/ 
IN 
~ I'M-NOT-AMEmcA~" TOORIS~R t~GA~t 
C~ADIAN ID"'-'!EAR GIQCIII\ISTER 
P.O. BoxQ 
not fallen asleep in the poppyfield. We are 
ever comparing Oz to Kansas, and soon 
enough we'll close our eyes, dick our heels 

for harsh real world and enter the real world with the strength of having experienced Notre Dame. 
ND prepares students 
DearEditor: Corey Hutchinson 
I just ran into Father Griffin. I informed him Class of1986 I had read his article "Real life escape from Oz Pangborn Hall for seniors" and had, like many of my friends, failed to understand exactly what he meant. 
Defacing dishonors 

After my first reading, I was shocked that, a man I have known, loved and respected for Notre Dame students four years, would use my name in an under­handed cut on the senior class. The article DearEditor: seemed to mold us all into naive, sun­On April 9, I discovered, like most of the worshipping capitalists returning from spring campus, that someone had spray-painted red break unaware of God's blessings which have graffiti on the Fieldhouse Mall War Memorial. befallen us. I was especially angry and disillu­As I stared out my window that morning, sioned with the irresponsibility ofThe Obser­initial disbelief turned to anger as I wondered ver, for printing such a negative article with how anyone could have committed such a my unique, and all but unrecognizable, name thoughtless act. What I mean by this is that the included. perpetrator(s) had obviously forgotten who 
Upon my fifth reading, my outlook has that memorial is honoring. Perhaps, because changed. I still think I was deserving of a ofall the complaints about its design and loca· proofreading prior to print and distribution to tion, we all have missed the basic intention of a community of peers, but I am no longer the memorial: to honor those former students shocked with the article's content. The ar-, of Notre Dame who made the ultimate tide, although negative, is delivered in love, sacrifice for the country and political system and I am flattered that he chose to "speak in which they believed. through (me) to all those who could benefit." Those students who did not come back For those who approached me with com­after the fighting stopped should be the focal ments such as "that priest was really on your point of any discussion about the memorial. case" or "that guy must really hate you," I They were students who are more similar to want to present the message more clearly. present day students than we realize. They 
The final days for seniors are not full of suf­followed the band to the stadium on Saturday fering, but often of disheartening realization. afternoons to see the Irish play. They had Yes, "there's a real world waiting for me out trouble keeping up with their classes, but still there," and a response like "one world at a cut loose on weekends. They encountered the time" is characteristic of one who has forgot­same frustrations, confusions and anxieties ten the college to real-life transition. Notre about their future careers. They fell in love Dame is often unrealistic. It is a place where and began serious relationships. After party­Christianity thrives and troubles lie beyond ing off-campus, they had to get back to their highway 31. Notre Dame students, however, rooms before someone found out. Most of all, are not unrealistic. In fact, it is Notre Dame's they were our age, but unlike us, they went to surrealism which makes the student even war and died. more aware of the world's harsh reality. That act of vandalism was probably 
The real world is a game and as we "sit it directed toward an administration, whom the out" as objective observers during out time at students believe, autocratically approved an Notre Dame, when graduation finally comes, ugly design for a memorial that is badly we're ready to play with the best. Its a shame situated. However, the memorial does not that the world is this way, but we intend to really have anything to do with the adminis­play the game under the rules we've learned tration. It has to do with Notre Dame students here, and we intend to win. The snobs, the who had the courage to answer their social class conflicts, the fear of "showing up country's call, regardless of the conse­at a charity ball in Thorn McAnn's" have al­quences. ways existed out there. But Notre Dame has We, as the students of today, should have not lulled us into thinking a "tan and an the greatest empathy and closest connection American Express card" is our ticket to to those whom the memorial commemorates. success. Au contraire, we are enjoying our To tarnish the memory of our war dead is to color and our plastic while we can, because dishonor ourselves because we are the same. we know we will soon become part ofa whole Luckily, we have not been asked to make the different game requiring courage, strength same sacrifice. and compassion. Bob O'Leary 
The bottom line? This is Oz, but we have Cavanaugh Hall 
------1 
I 

VieWP-Oint Tuesday, April 15, 1986-page 7 
Nonviolence: the best route to a peaceful society 
"Is nonviolence a possible basis for the foreign policy of a great country like the United States? Or is it only a private escape route available to religious minorities who are prott-cted by a majority willing to fight for their lives?" 
Michael Froning 
overseas 

Not long ago, I had this question posed to me in CORE course and gave the following response: 
Not only is nonviolence a possible basis for foreign policy, it is the most direct route toward the peaceful society that all humans dt:sire. For it is only through nonviolent policies that the world will achieve peace. As long as vioknt means are used, we can only altain violent ends. 
Unfortunately, my defense ofthis position is already set back twice by the wording of the above question. To make an affirmative defense of my position difficult, the question is structured to do two things: to make non­violence a practical issue rather than a moral one and to equivocate nonviolence with sur­render by directly stating that believers in nonviolence need someone else to fight for them. 
Fortunately, both setbacks are easily remedied. Nonviolence is not a practical 
Sculpture vandalism ruined hours of work 
Dear l:'ditor: 
l'or wtTks and weeks. we watched our friend Mikt· llofman t·nthusiastit-ally work on a 100-pound n·ramic sculpturt·. which was an extension of his fish motif year-long project. 
On April I. 19H6, finally completed, the mosaic sculptun· was installed on the front lawn of tht· Riley Art Building. Naturally, we wt·rt· ddightl'll to sec Mike's ideas and hours of hard work actually materialize as we watdll·d the installation of the piece for the t•njoymt•nt of all. 
On April ·t, 19H6, the sun was out, an art class movt·d out on the lawn and students gat­hen·d around to draw. paint. chat. take pictures or just to enjoy the sun. The center of tht· action wa..~ the sculpture itself. 
On April 'i, 19H6, the sculpture was found smashed. all .fOO pounds of it having mys­tt·riously been tipped over in the early hours of the morning. 
WilY? 
}anna Shwartsman 
Maria Murphy 
Ann Grusdis 
james Boniface 
Reem Mouasher 
Susan Fries 
Kris Novotny 
Notre Dame design students 

Van Rensburg's fast 
not a 'hunger strike' DearEditor: 
On bd1alf of the Anti-Apartheid Network, I would like to commend Tripp Baltz on his fine coveragt· of the commencement ofthe fast un­dertakt•n by Fr. Basil van Rensburg. Baltz surpassed his colleagues from the national news services and city papers as the only reporter covt•ring the event to glean the deep significance of Fr. Basil's statement. In his ar­tide, Baltz clearly noted the call for divest-issue, it is a moral one. The issue is whether violence is morally right or wrong. Obviously, violence is morally wrong, and the killing of human beings is morally wrong. To demonstrate this, I would like to present two quotations, the first by Leszak Pekala, the second by Andre Malrux. "There is no aim so high to justify the killing of a man." "A human life is worth nothing, but nothing is worth a human life." 
Admittedly, nonviolent policies are difficult to adhere to in a violent world. But should we let practicality dictate our consciences? Should we just pick the easy ro~d? Or should we renounce the violent tendencies and policies in this world as morality and our con­sciences would have us do. A nonviolent stance is not easy to adhere to; one needs a great amount of courage and will power. The attitude needed when taking a nonviolent stance is stated well by Robert Parker: "If you only do it when it's easy, is it worth doing?" Indeed nonviolence may be the most chal­lenging path to follow, but I believe it is also the best. 
The quotation also misleads us into believ­ing that nonviolent people don't fight, and while this is true in the purely physical sense, it has nothing to do with needing someone else to fight for their lives or surrendering. As Freeman Dyson said: "Nonviolent resistance is not the same thing as surrender. Morally, (they) are at opposite poles." 
Nonviolent resistance implies fighting, but with nonviolent methods. The question is, does nonviolence work? I need only give you three examples to show not only that non­violence works, but that it sometimes works with astounding quickness. 
The first example is Mohandas Ghandi. In just 30 years time, he was able to do what no man before him could without violent means: liberate a country from its foreign occupant. Ghandi, of course, was an extraordinary man. His ability to keep his followers on the non­violent path was indeed remarkable, but it was not just his personality that freed India. It was his unwavering committment to nonviolent resistance, no matter what failures and set­backs had first occurred, which saw his non­violence through to its successful end. 
The next example is the one of Andre Trocme and the little French village of Le Chambron during World War II. Trocme was an ordinary priest in a little town about to be overrun by the Germans. Instead of support­ing a violent resistance, he prepared his town for a nonviolent resistance. To make a long story short, this stance kept the village from being annihilated by the Germans, and throughout the remainder of the war the vil­lagers were able to help the French Resistance and many jews. The point being, it doesn't necessarily take a charismatic leader to make nonviolence work. Rather, ifthere is simply an unwavering committment to the nonviolent method, peaceful achievement of goals is in­evitable. William Hazlitt said it best, albeit 
ment by a South African is considered an act of treason according to South African law. 
I would like, however, to make a point of clarification for those who may misconstrue the headline of the article. Contrary to what could be inferred from the headline of the ar­ticle, Fr. van Rensburg's fast is in no way a "hunger strike." Neither he nor anyone in the Anti-Apartheid Network intended to convey that type of meaning. The intention of the fast is mainly a spiritual one, asking for God's guidance and elightenment for Fr. Basil and the Board of Trustees. It is not meant to be a threat to push for divestment, but a plea for openness to the calls of the oppressed majority of South Africa. 
Margarita Rose Charlperson Anti-ApartheidNetwork 

History shows distorted foreign policy values 
DearEditor: 
With the vote on aid for the Nicaraguan 
Contras, the propaganda war ofthe Reagan ad­
ministration reached unknown peaks. It is as­
tonishing how many lies Reagan can tell in 
press conferences without having some jour­
nalists dare to contradict him. 
Now, I do not intend to give you a long list 
of what I think are the half-truths and lies 
Reagan uses. Rather, I would encourage you 
to abstract from the current debate whether 
the Sandinistas are good guys or bad guys. This 
is not the real problem. Instead, try to think 
more with a historical perspective. 
Have we already forgotten what happened in Guatemala in 1954 or in Chile in 1973? With the same rhetoric we use today against the Sandinistas, we actively helped to topple truly elected governments. We called their leaders communists, we isolated them politi­cally and economically and we supported mercenaries in order to remove their govern­ments. Well, we succeeded, but what was the outcome? The governments we helped to in­stall in these countries (allegedly to restore democracy) proved to be some of the most bloody and brutal regimes we know. In Guatemala more than 100,000 people were killed or disappeared. The 13 year Pinochet regime in Chile is just one long nightmare for the Chilean people. 
Was it really democracy we wanted to restore? Circumstances in these cases clearly indicate different motives. Economic inter­ests and American hegemony in Latin America were the driving force in overthrowing these governments. Independent governments which could turn away from Big Brother U.S. are perceived as a threat to our national inter­est (whatever that is and whoever defines that). So, we are more interested in installing "friendly" governments and training their police and army forces in counterinsurgency. Never mind that these "friendly" govern­ments are using death squads to silence any internal opposition or that they bomb civilian villages (as in the case of El Salvador) to clear the path for free fire zones. 
If our main concerns were democratic values it would also imply a freedom for these countries to decide whether they want the 
negatively: "Ifmankind had wished for what is 
right, they might have had it long ago." 
Finally, there is the shining example of Mar­tin Luther King Jr., debatably the most charis­matic and moving speaker in American history. King was one of the major forces in the Civil Rights moveme~t in the 60s. His or­ganization ofnonviolent protests and marches probably had the single most profound impact on the development ofCivil Rights legislation in the United States. In a single decade of non­violent resistance, Martin Luther King ac­complished what no other group, church or political party had done in the history of the world: He won legal equality for blacks, and all other minorities in a country where they had been previously denied all civil rights. 
It is clear that nonviolence can and does work. The question is, does the world have what it takes to adopt nonviolent methods as the status quo? I believe all human beings have the desire and capability to adopt nonviolent policies. If people want nonviolence to work, it will. But it won't just happen overnight. We, who have the choice between violence and nonviolence must choose the path of non­violence and begin to set examples for others. The sooner someone takes that first step, the sooner the last step will be taken. As Shaw says: "Some men see things as they are and say why? But I see things that never were and say why not?" 
Michael Froning is a sophomore in the Angersprogram. 
P.O. BoxQ 

United States as a dose ally or not-even if they choose to be independent of the United States. After all, for decades we have sup­ported the worst human rights abusers and most anti-democratic forces in Latin America. TI1erefore, we should not be surprised if Latin American countries that got rid of their dic­tators are not exat·tly in love with our govern­ment. 
Unfortunately it looks like we did not learn from the past. Our "Contras" or "Freedom Fighters" as some people prefer to call them are already well known for terrorizing, tortur­ing and killing children, women and other in­nocent civilians. (Obviously, I do not think much of Reagan's latest gimmick that it is the Sandinistas in Contra uniforms who do this ­for years human rights organizations have pointed to the atrocities committed by the Contras.) 
Poor Nicaragua -so far from God and so dose to the U.S. 
Peter Palesch Notre Dame graduate student 


The Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer­sity of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opin1on of a majority of the Editonal Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free express1on of varying opinions on campus. through letters. is encouraged. 
General Board 

Editor-in-Chief. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Joe Murphy Business Manager ... . Managing Editor. . . ...... Kevin Becker Controller . ........ . 
Viewpoint Editor... . ......... Scott Bearby Production Manager . . . Sports Editor. . . . . . . . . . . . . Dennis Corrigan Photography Manager . Accent Editor. . . . . . . . . . . . ..... Mary Jacoby Advertising Manager. Saint Mary's Editor. . . ..... Margie Kersten Photography Manager . . Executive News Editor. . . . . . Frank Lipo Systems Manager . .. News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Tnpp Baltz Graphic Arts Manager . News Editor. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mark Pankowski 
Founded November 3, 1966 
. ... Eric Scheuermann . . Alex VonderHaar . ... Chris Bowler James Carroll . . Anne M.Culligan . ....... Drew Sandier . ...... David Thornton . . Mark Weimholt 


The Observer Tuesday, April 15, 1986-page 8 
Sports Briefs 
Marc Guay and Dave Waldbillig two mem­
bers of the Notre Dame hockey team, were named to the College Hockey Statistics Bureau's Academic All-America Team. Guay, a goaltender, was named to the second team and is a pre-med major with a 3.60 GPA. Waldbillig, a forward, Was an honorable mention selection and is also a pre-med major with a 3.70 GPA. -I'he Observer 
The ND/SMC sailing club will hold a meeting tonight at 6:30 in the boathouse on St. Joe's Lake. New members are welcome -The Observer 
The ND men's tennis team lost a rain­
shortened match against Michigan, 5-0, yesterday on the Courtney Tennis Courts. The Irish dropped three doubles matches and two singles matches in the contest. In last weekend's ND Triangular, meanwhile, the Irish lost an opening match, 7-2, to Ohio State before rebounding to knock off Indiana State by an identical score. The 17-8 Irish will today play host to Northwestern and will face Marquette tomorrow. Both contests will begin at 3 p.m and take place on the Courtney Courts. -The Observer 
The ND golf team finished second in a field of 10 teams yesterday at the Indiana Intercollegiate Golf Invitational in Indianapolis. The Irish score of 812 placed them behind only Ball State (782) in the final standings. Individual leaders for Notre Dame included Lon Huffman ( 79-83 ), Richard Connelly ( 81-81 ), andJohn O'Donovan ( 82-80). Next on the schedule for the team is the Kepler Invitational in Columbus, Ohio beginning Thursday. -I'he Observer 
ND rowing club members interested in picking up their shirts, racing jerseys or sweats should bring their money tonight at 9 to Room 123 of the Nieuwland Science Building. -The Observer 
A Bengal Bouts Banquetwill be held Thursday, April 17, at St. Hedwigs Church. Semi-formal attire is requested. For more information call Kevin O'Shea at 283-3182 or Tom Newell at 283-4115. -The Observer 
Any SMCvarsityathleteinterested in applying for president ofthe Student Athletic Council may pick up an application form at Angela Athletic Facility. The deadline for returning forms is tomorrow. -The Observer 
The ND windsurfing clubwill meet tomorrow 
at 7 p.m. in the Lafortune Little Theater. Anyone interested in learn­ing how to windsurf is invited. For more information call Kevin Laracey at 283-1148. -The Observer 
The An Tostal slam dunk contestwm hold 
sign-ups today and tomorrow from 3 to 5 p.m. at the Lafortune in­formation desk. The event takes place April 23 at 2 p.m. and both men and women are invited to participate at either the nine-foot or 10-foot level. For more information call Dan Sullivan at 283-1184.­
The Observer 

Upset-winners Toronto and Hartford wait while Rangers aim to join the club tonight 
Associated Press 

Following stunning first-round knockouts, the Toronto Maple Leafs and Hartford Whalers, a pair of fourth-place teams, are ready for round two of the Stanley Cup playoffs. Another fourth-place team, the New York Rangers, could join them tonight. 
"You're just seeing the tip of the iceberg with this club," Maple Leafs Coach Dan Maloney said. "Fora long time our team was working hard and couldn't get over the hump. I feel this series has put us over the hump." 
The Maple Leafs completed a three-game sweep of the Norris Division-winning Chicago Black­hawks with a 7-2 victory Saturday night. Toronto finished the regular season with the worst record among the 16 Stanley Cup teams, 29 points behind the Blackhawks. 
The Whalers, meanwhile, eliminated the Quebec Nordiques in three straight, beating the Adams Division winners 9-4 Saturday. While Hartford is one ofthe National Hockey League's hottest teams now, they weren't expected to win with such ease over the Nordiques, who finished with the fourth-best record in the league. The Whalers didn't clinch the fourth playoff spot in the Adams Division until the final weekend of the season. 
Those two upsets, coupled with Philadelphia's problems with the Rangers in the Patrick Division semi­finals, have been the major surprises in the NHL playoffs. The Rangers, who finished 32 points behind the Flyers in fourth place in the Patrick, are tied 2-2 in their best-of-five series and will play the deciding game tonight at Philadelphia. 
Among other teams sweeping first-round series included the Was-
Bookstore results 
Yeeterdlly'a Reeulta 

Stepan 1 We've Had ND ChickS over Ballroom by 2 Where's the Justice over Look at Castigs by 8 Challenger, Go With Full Throttle over Oriental Ellpressby 14 If Besds Had Played He'd Have Played for Us over JFK, . . by 7 
Stepan 2 NADS over Sometimes the Best Things in Life Cost$10by7 Betti Lou over Johnny Wad & 4 Other Lesser Known Porn Stars by 6 5 White Guys Who Never Get Cheated over Magic Dick & the 4 Skins by 9 Mr. Coffey & the Non-Dairy Creamers over Dave's Heavy Towing by 16 
Stepen3 Catherine the Great Meets Mr. Ed . . over 5 Flannerites Who Hate Pam . . by 9 Revenge Factor over Chaotic Oscillations by 10 The Bearers of the Holy Hand Grenade of An­tioch over Festering Sores by 6 Flipper & the 4 Guys Who Bark ... over 5 Guys Without Liberty Bowl. . by 13 
Stepen4 Sorry About That Now . . . over Bob & 4 Guys Who Wouldn't Pull His Finger ... by 9 Eagles over Multiple Orgasm Addicts by 7 Dulac .... over Velvet Buzz Saws by 2 Keenan Inmates II over Snackers by 15 
Stepan 5 Hill's Billies over 5 Guys With Good Moves But No Penetration by 12 The Geoff Peters Fan Club over 5 Scuzzballs All Covererl in ~in bv 8 Gnomes From Hell over 5 Stiffs Gently Ribbed for the True Feeling ... by 1 2 Josephus & the Ethiopian Shim Sham over Help! by6 
Stepan& 4 Fags & a Zahmbie over We're Not Going to Make It Past the First Round .. by 13 Revenge of the Bun-faced Sea Pigs over Transport Phenomenon by 10 Dick Prosen over Sorry J.R. by 3 Boys of Summer over Big Mac & the Fries by 13 
Booketore9 Spuds over Californian Connection by 3 Snafu over Terrbulax by 12 Our Best Team over We Shoot Pool by 14 Soccer Burger over We're Just Here to Impress Chicks by 11 
Booketore 1o Sycamore Robbi over Hi, Guys by 13 We Are ... Who Are over 5 Marines by 7 Nutmeggers X over Marty & 4 Other Guys by 14 Port-a-Pit over Panic State by 2 
Lyone11 Dancing Irish Oinglebenies over 4 Great Tragedies by 17 RASTA Man over Double Stuffs by 4 Falso Sense of Pride over 4 Gaterunners by 17 Lee's BBQ over 5 Guys That Smell the Glove by 11 
Lyone12 Zoota Roota over A Team by 13 You See Us over Dealers by 6 Now We Go To School over The Fellas by 5 4 People & a Short Fat Guy over Capt. Kirk & 4 People with Big Phasers by 5 
hington Capitals, who beat the New York Islanders in the Patrick Divi­sion semifinals, and the Montreal Canadiens, who stopped the Boston Bruins in the Adams. While both were expected to win their series, they weren't expected to win with such ease. 
Elsewhere, the two-time defend­ing Stanley Cup champions, the Ed­monton Oilers, and the Calgary Flames won as expected in the Smythe Division. The Oilers ousted the Vancouver Canucks in three games and the Flames beat Win­nipeg in three. 
In the only otherfirst-round series still going, St. Louis and Minnesota will settle their Norris Division semifinal Tuesday night. 
Of all the surprises, the biggest was Toronto's elimination of Chicago. 
"They deserved everything they got," Chicago's Denis Savard said. 
Bookstore 
continuedfrom page 12 

tremendous effort in horrendous conditions yesterday. Many risked contracting numerous diseases in their dedicated support of the Bookstore tradition. 
Second round action continues today, and unfortunately for the scorekeepers, more bad weather is forecast. Nevertheless, four seeded teams will take to the courts. Much More Manhood takes on The Big Blue Vein -the Second Coming at 
6: I 5 on Stepan Court 5. Also at Stepan, Unidentified Grace Defenders take on Sphinxter and Four Other Orifices at 4 p.m. on Court 4, and Showtime battles Yank My Doodle, It's A Dandy at 5:30, also on Court 4. 
The Embarassing Stains, featuring varsity basketball player Tim Kempton, play Kegels and Cutoffs at 
6:15 on Lyons Court 12. A final game ofinterest to Bookstore fans pits two unseeded but talented teams. Still Uncoachable and Four Sinners and A Monk, both easy winners in the first round, will face off at 5:30 on Bookstore Court 10. 


1"/J(' lJhserr·er "\otn: I>Jmt· otfilt· ltH.Jic.:d un lht.: tlunl tlcHif c1l IJic1rttHll' ~tudnlt ( cntc:r. .ttt.ept" t.IJ'"''tit·t.f .uht·fll'.,lllg frtlfll 1J .1 f1l until 1 p m \londJ\ 
throu~h I ru.l.t\ lht• (1/Js,•rn•r ~JIIlt \1.tn 'clftu.t· lclt..llc:d tllltlw 1l11rd llc~tlf ''' HJgg.Jr <ollt-gt· ( c.·nll'f .lllt·pt' t l.l''lfu:tf, Ire 1111 I..! "'t I p Ill Lllllll ~ p 111 \1c 111 dJ\ tiHlll~h lru.IJ\ l>c.: ..u1111H· fc1r nt·,tt.l.t\ tl.t,,lfit.d... '' "-pm \ll~.l.t'''tit:d' mu't ht: pn:p.ud t'ltla·r 111 pc:r..,on ur IH 111.111 < h.1rgt. ''!Ill nlh tWr lt\l' t h.tr.u.
Classifieds 
(t'f' l'f ttl~ 
NOTICES 
Typing Available 287-4082 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-81117. 
Wordprocesaing-Typing 272-8827 
TYPING -Fast, High-Quality. Call 287· 9257 
Typing/Wordprocessing 277-8131 
······························································ 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
YEAR END BEACH BREAK only $99 for a week at Fort Walton Beach, South Padre Island and Daytona Beach! Hurry, caM Sunchase Tours for more information toll free 1-800-321-5911 TODAY! When that last test is over ...Break for The Beach with Sunchaae! 
GOVERNMENT JOBS. $16,040 ­$59,230/yr. Now Hiring. Call 805-687· 6000 Ext. R-9834 for current federal list. 
SPRING SALEII Seve up to 50/ Apr.17· 30-ST. FRANCIS &HOPPE-behind Fetlrnll....,_ Center, Open 10e.m.-5 
p.m. Mon.-Set. 
................................................................ 
LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: LAST FRIDAY, APRIL 4TH, AT THE AMERICANA DURING THE HOLY CROSS SYR. 1 BLUE BACK-PACK CONTAINING IMPORTANT ITEMS. IF FOUND, PLEASE;. CONTACT MARY AT 284-5176 A.S.A.P. 

LOST IN THE VICINITY OF MARTIN'S SUPERMARKET ON ST. RD. 23 -A WALLET WITH MANY MEMBERSHIP CARDS, VISA CARD, DRIVER'S LICENSE, ETC., $50 REWARD FOR FINDER. RETURN TO MSGR. FRANCIS SAMPSON, CORBY HALL, NOTRE DAME, IN 46556. 
FOR RENT 

6 BDRM HOME. NEAR CAMPUS.272­
6306 
FURNISHED HOUSES CLOSE TO ND FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2876389 
Semi-furnished house good neighbor· hood call after 4 -255-3684 277-3604 
Summer School Rental . Large 9 room house, 4 bdrms, carpets & drapes. Near campus. Furnished or unfurnished. 272­8185. 
NEED ONE OR TWO ROOMMATES FOR NEXT YEAR. IN A HOUSE OFF OF PORTAGE AVE NEAR MARTINS. $65 OR $87/MO PLUS UTILITIES. CALL ROB (X1245) OR ROB (x1772) 
CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS Apertmente available lor Fell'&& 9MonthL­272-1441 
WANTED 

RESPONSIBLE ND JUNIOR, female, will sit with children (or house), perform household chores, in return for room and board. References available. 
Getting rid o1 your bike? Don't junk it! Donate ittoa needy family. Call George at 283-3457 for info. 
Internal frame backpack which also con­verts to luggage and down-filled sleeping bag. Call Dave 3224. 
WANTED: RIDE OR RIDERS TOE. 4/18­4/20. CALL MIKE AT 1528. 
SUMMER ROOMMATE needed.Brendenw'dApts.callx15451ate. 
WANTED Used woman's bicycle at a reasonable price. CaN Betty 111 239-5604 
.
................................. 
Used Apple I/e equipment. Call Mark at 233-8803 and leave a message. Thanks. 
........................................... 
I WILL PAY ANY PRICE FOR TWO (2) COMMENCEMENT TICKETS. PLEASE CAU. BRUCE AT 4501 ANmME. 
Are you a Saint Mery'elltudent looking lor • well paying aummer Job that wiH allow you to gain proleaalonel ex­perience? Apply now lor • poaiUon ee a PHONE/MAIL Cellar. You will be eel­ling 11umnea, perente, end lr1enda of SMC • part of 1 lundnolelng program. Apply nowIll the SMC p-nnal office or can Marth• Hewitt 11 5351 for more detelle. Aleo needeQ. Clerical help. You do not need to be• SMC llludent to be1 clerical. Apply nowl 
FOR SALE 
le It True You can Buy Jeepe lor $44 through the U.S.government? Get the facta todey! c.n 1-312-742-1142 Ext. 7316, 
SELL YOUR CLASS BOOKS FOR $$$ AND CREDIT! Cliff notes available. PAN­DORA'S BOOKS 937 South Bend Ave. 
233-2342 Dad bought one too many. FOR SALE: Brand new Macintosh carrying case. STILL IN BOX, NEVER USED. Call Glenn at3451. 

78 Datsun B21 0. Moving, must sell. Good condition. 272-9531. 
Apple I I I Syatem Complete with 256K RAM, Clock/Calendar, numeric keypad, monitor, and built·in disk drive. System in­cludes a Service Contract covering all parts and labor through September 1986, Haba Systems I I I E-Z Pieces integrated word processor, spreadsheet and database, Apple Access I I I communica­tions package and 4 expansion slots. Must sacrifice at $700. Add a ProFile 5Mb hard disk and i ntertace for a package price of $1,100. ProFile and interface separately for $500. For more information or a demonstration call Mark at 239-5600 days or 233-8803 evenings. 
PERSONALS 
PREGNANT? 
NEED HELP? 
Call 234-0363. 24-hr. hotline, counseling 
& free pragnancy tests. 
WOMEN'S CARE CENTER 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUOAY INN. 
LET THEM EAT CAKE--IT'S TIME FOR A CHANGE!! 
CLASSIFIEOS FOR THE NEXT PUBLISHING DAY WILL BE AC. CEPTEO UNTIL 2 P.M. OAIL Y, 
FREE COUPONS In the yellow pegee of the Cempue Telephone Directory. UH them todllyl 
OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS SPRING DANCE THURS. APRIL 17! $10/COUPLE OR $5/PERSON TIX MON-THURS 1st FLOOR LaFORTUNE! 
Hungry? Call YELLOW SUBMARINE at 272-HIKE. D~livery hours: 5pm-12am Mor\Pay-Thursday; 5pm-2am Friday; 3pm-1am Saturday; 4pm-10pm Sunday. 
ThankS for making my week. I needed the upper, and I'm so gfad that you are my friend. You're ... FUN. Keep smiling, kid. 
OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS! NEWSLETIER AVAIL. OBUD DESK 1st FLOOR LaFORTUNE NOW!!! 
LAAURA-Do you know what Sunday is? 
ROCHESTER 
OR 
ALONG 1-90 EAST 

RIDERS NEEDED Leave Friday, Apri/18 and return on Sun­day Call Pat 1222 or John 1240 
....................... 

REVOLUTION REVOLUTION REVOLU· TION 
THANKS FOR ALL YOUR SUPPORT ST. JUDE. I COULDN'T HAVE MADE IT WITH OUT YOU! 
Hey Mike Whltton-hope you have a euper BIRTHDAY!! Love Lisa and your San Diego buddies!! 
ALICIA MARK-DID YOU REALLY THINK WE WOULD FORGET? HOPE YOUR B­DAY WAS A GREAT ONE. THE 243 BADIN QUAD. 
MARY COME OUT AND PLAY! The men of Grace 

P.S. Lighten up. 
P.P.S Tom, it was worth the ten bucks. 
To HOWDY DOODY AND THE THREE STOOGES FROM ALUMNI--Get off your high horses. We've seen bener...a lot bet­ter. 
AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL meeting today 6:30pm esc 
JACK IS BACKII 

THE BEAR IS OUT OF HIBERNATIONII 
WHO IS THE GREATEST GOLFER OF All TIME? WAS THERE ANY DOUBT? JACK IS BACKIII 
HELP!! Need 1 more COMMENCEMENT ticket. Have extras? Donna x2279 
PETER WALSHE-Senior Fellow 
let SOURCE BANK PRESENTS The 1986 N-Car Sale NO ACC April 18th '85 BMW 318-$14,700 '86 C&lebrity-$9,250 '86 Cutlass Ciera-$10,800 '86 Pontiac 6000 LE-$10,744 For more Info. Cell Merlo Menta 236-2201 
HELP CRAIG! 
ThankS lor your prayers St. Jude 

................................ 
Hey Greek Tragedlea A little practice in Europe and We'll go lor three in '87! (won mentally eh, Davie?) 

0. 
I CAN'T WAIT TILL I GET TO AUSTIN I 

FRANK ('Magnum') from ALUMNI-I ap­preciate your 'honesty' this weekend--and I'm sorry you've had difficulty corning, but don't wait for me. Its something your'e just going to have to do by yourseH. 


The Observer 
Sophomore steeplechaser 
Mulvey finds life in fast lane 
By EDJORDANICH 
Sports Writer 
For Notre Dame steeplechaser Ril·k Mulvey, it is amazing how times change. 
Going from a runner at a Wiscon­sin high school which graduated 92 seniors to the number-one steeplec­ha.~t·r at a NCAA Division I track program ha.~ put the Notre Dame sophomore into the fast lane. 
This rush of success has not been magic however. Mulvey's dedica­tion to running has resulted in a progressive improvement of times in both the 3000-meter stec:ple<:hase and the 1500-meter, which he normally runs as part of a relay team for joe Plane's Irish unit. 
Through a combination of Plane's interest in him and his own desire to come to Notre Dame, Mulvey arrived at Notre Dame in the fall of 19H·l. Ills expectations were modest, but when the cross country and indoor seasons ended and the spring outdoor team began practice, he knt·w he was improving. 
"The key was and is the really good runners I train with," said Mul­vey. "I always run better when the competition is better and I had all I l'OUid handle everyday in practice. I was doing new workouts, mort· dis­tance. and bl'ing t·xposed to a higher t·aliher of coaching than ever hdore." 
The first breakthrough for Mulvey came during last year's Drake Relays in which his 4: 12 mile split beat his personal best by nine seconds. A 
3:51 time in the I500-meter later in the season showed even more im­provement and set the stage for an incrt•dible summer. 
After competing in the steeplechase a few times during his freshman outdoor season, Mulvey went to the University of Illinois where he qualified for theJunior Na­tionals by finishing second with a time of 9: I 5 in the steeplechase. 
As a member of the Junior Na­tional Team, he trained for two months before traveling to Was­hington State University and the Uni­versity of British Columbia in Canada for two track meets' against the best 19-and-under runners from Canada, Japan, and Mexico. 
Mulvey finished second to a 
Mexican runner at WSlJ and won the 
race at British Columbia, setting an 
American record for the 2000-meter 
steeplechase in the process. It was 
an effort that ranked him seventh in 
the world. 
"That was one of, if not the, best 
experiences I've had in running," 
said Mulvey. "Not just in regard~ to 
track, but the people, the level of 
competition, and the confidence it 
gave me in my relatively new event, 
has been invaluable to me." 
At Notre Dame, Mulvey runs the 3000-meter steeplechase, which is the more popular steeplechase event in America. His success has continued this year with a recent win at Indiana University. 
"Rick came here with mediocre credentials and has done the little things to produce outstanding im­provement and results," said Plane. "Some people have a surface desire to do well, but aren't always willing to pay the price. Rick's desire is fan­tastic and his dedication to perform well is very sincere. 
"He still has to have better consis­tency and speed, and I think he will because of his record of progress thus far. He's really come from nowhere, and as he gains maturity and experience, we'll see more good things from Rick." 
Mulvey, who attributes much of his improvement to being pushed by fellow runners like Zahm Hall roommate Dan Garrett, is eyeing the future and IC4A and NCAA qualify­ing times carefully. 
"I still believe I can run much faster," he said. "9: 12 is the IC4A time and the NCAA's is 8:45. As long as I keep reevaluating my goals and gaining confidence on the track, I'd like to think these times are within 
· my reach." 
While many burst onto the fast lane and soon become over­whelmed by the suddeness of their achievements, Rick Mulvey's dedication has eased him into a successful lane he can occupy for quite a while. 
Thanks toyou... it works... forALLOFUS 

Tuesday, April 15, 1986-page 9 

AP Photo 

New York RangersplayerBob Brooke meets Toronto Maple Leaf tough guy Bob McGill in an NHL battle earlier this year. McGill's Maple Leafs havealreadypulled offthe biggest upset sofar in Stan­ley Cup playoff action, while Brooke's surprising Ranger team meets Philadelphia tonight in the deciding fifth game oftheir 2-2 series. A review ofall action can befound on page 8. 
Irish 
continuedfrompage 12 
Once again, Purdue and Indiana will provide the toughest competi­tion for the Irish as they vie for a spot in the top three among the field of ten schools. 
"Purdue won the Indiana Inter­collegiate Indoor Championship so they would have to be the favorite," said Plane. "Indiana also finished ahead of us and we barely edged out Indiana State so it will be tough for us to reach our goal of finishing in the top three." 
Notre Dame captured st·cond place last year, but l'iane was ht"Sitant when asked if the Irish will fare a'i well this year. 
"We will have to run exception­ally wdl," he said. "We picked up a lot of points in dual meet competi­tion that we won't be able to at this meet. Indiana didn't mn all of the people they could have and some of the other schools will also be able to place in some events and take away valuable points. In addition, Indiana State has been steadily improving and I look for them to be a possible darkhorse." 

ANTI-VIOLENCE VOLUNTEERS Center for Teaching Non-Violence Is seeking fuU-tlme swr. Lodging. U 50/mo., .t health covef18C. One year commitment with S2000 separation atipcnd. PubUc Intern~ research and publishing on agrcs­
slon, developing  courses  on  non­ 
violence  and  operating  National  
Coalltion  on  Television  Violence  

(TV, films, war ·toys, spans, etc.~ Next to Unlvenlty of IUinols. Student loans deferable. 217-~4-1920. Reaume to Thomas Radecki, M.D.. Boll2157 Cham IL61820. 

The Observer Tuesday, April 15, 1986 -page 10 
Tough luck hurts Volleyball Club in MIVA tournament 
The Volleyball Club certainly deserved a better fate than it received in the Midwest Intercollegiate Volleyball As· sodation tournament this past weekend. Acombination of circumstances led to the club's elimination in the semifinal round ofthe tournament. 
Notre Dame was forced to forfeit its first game to Mic­higan after arriving late as a result of hotel troubles. The team rebounded, however, to easily defeat Toledo ( 15·2, 15·10) and Northern Illinois ( 15-4, 15-6). 
A foul-up in the pairings resulted in the top three seeds having to play each other before the finals. In the quarter­finals, the Irish defeated number-three seed Ohio Univer­sity, 15·5, 16-14. Then in the semifinals, they lost to Wisconsin, the top seed, 15·11, 15·10. 
Ifthere isany consolation to be derived from this tourna· ment, middle blocker Mark Trautmann and setter Geoff Westrich were named to the aii-MIVA tournament team. And in his first season as coach of the Irish,. Bill Anderson was named Coach of the Year. 
In the club's last regular-season match last Tuesday, IUPU-Fort Wayne dumped Notre Dame in three straight. 
With the toughest schedule of any team in the league, the team finished its season with a 12·13 record. Despite graduating six seniors, Anderson is already looking for­ward to coaching his second season. 
"Next year the team should be stronger than ever," he said. "Our only weak spot will be our setter. Geoff will be hard to replace in that position." 
Besides Westrich, the team will lose three starters, middle blocker Ed Abt and outside hitters Eloy Ruiz and Glenn Trautmann, as well as outside hitters Andy Reardon and jim Stuckey. 
Several close, exciting races were the highights of the Rowing Club's second annual regatta. 
The women's Varsity-eight division featured a duel bet· ween Northwestern and the Notre Dame boat of Suzy Pusek, Stephaniejordan, Mary Beth Murray, Sarah Bernard, 

Pete Gegen 
Club Corner 

Carol Blanchette, Liz jeszenszky, Megan Lee, Cathy Robertson, and coxswain Margot Kirchner. The Irish held the lead midway through the race, but the Wildcats pulled out a five-second victory. In the men's Varsity Lightweight· four division, six seconds was all that separated Notre Dame and two Michigan boats. 
The upset of the day came in the men's Varsity Lightweight-eight division. Michigan defeated the favored Notre Dame boat of Cory Timpson, Le Keough, Chuck Lumb, Mike Wall, Eric Adams, Bill Milan, Todd Waffner, John Crilly, and coxswain Greg Shadid, by a five second 
margin. 

Three novice boats tooksecondplacein theirrespective divisions, the men's lightweight-eight and both the women's four and eight. Finally the men's varsity and 
novice heavywdght-eight boats placed third. 

The Sailing Club has been keeping everyone in the club 
busy lately. Before break the newcomers saw action in the 
Freshman regatta hosted by Notre Dame. The Irish placed 
second out of six teams. 

Two weekends ago the team took fifth place in the 15· 
team Miami (Ohio) regatta. Then last week part ofthe team 
took part in a clinic at Ohio State, while several others 
raced in the Michigan State regatta. 

This weekend the team will return to Ohio State for a 
regatta. 

New Secondary Coach 
Forbes keeps Db's loose and ready 
By MARlY STRASEN juniors Steve Lawrence and Troy we can make strides in. We have a Assistant Sports Editor Wilson. With junior Marv Spence ways to go yet. and sophomore Brandy Wells both "As a secondary we have to 
Darting into the defensive back­looking for starting spots, there is become more physically dominat· field after each play, Notre Dame sure to be some experience on the ing. As a unit we have to have more secondary coach Terry Forbes is not field in 1986. confidence and even some nasti­shy about dishing Ol!t praise or ness. The catch-word is 
pointing out a mistake. His en­'intimidation.' All the great defenses thusiasm is all part ofthe plan for the and all the great secondaries were 
1986 football season. pysically intimidating. When all those things are in place, then you finally can be effective."
Spring But effectiveness is something very difficult to measure this early in
Football 

the spring. At this point, Forbes is
'86 simply hoping his players will remain excited about their potential in the upcoming fall season. 
Forbes is one ofthe new additions "A lot of people have talked about to the Irish coachingstaff under Lou the enthusiasm they see when they Holtz, giving up his former position take a look at a practice or a as defensive coordinator at the Uni­scrimmage," he says. "I think it's im­versity ofAkron. portant to have a vision of the 
"As defensive coordinator you finished product when you're still in have to be acquainted with all posi· the developing stages. When you see tions in the defense," he says. "I en­what you are capable ofdoing in the 

joy being able to tune in to the defensive backs (at Notre Dame) and work with them every day. It gives me a better appreciation for the work that is being done on the field." 
Forbes' enjoyment of his new position is not hard to notice at a spring practice or scrimmage. He sees aggressiveness as a key in­gredient for success in the 1986 campaign and is certainly doing his best to bring an aggressive, en­thusiastic attitude onto the field every day. 
"I think you need a great base for what you're going to teach and that's what we are working on in the spring," says Forbes. "We started from the ground floor and we're going to continue building. We definitely have some talented players to work with. 
"What I want to see is a very fun­damentally sound defensive back­field. Once we get the fundamentals down, I'm looking for great hustle and aggressiveness each time the players put on their uniforms." 
Making the transition a little easier for Forbes is a squad of veteran defensive backs who have proven themselves last season. Returning starters for the Irish in­clude senior Mike Haywood and 
"I think we are starting to come future, you take pride in what you're together," he says. "It is essential doing now. That's what we want to that we generate enthusiasm in or­see happen." der to become a great football team, And from the looks and attitudes and I'm starting to see it happen. ofthe players, that might just be hap­Team closeness is something I think sooner than Pvn...rt..rt 
OPENHOUSE 

Come share the beauty of Riverside. We cordially invite you to attend on: 
Saturday, April 12th 
10:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. Sunday, April 13th 
12:00 a.m. to 3:00p.m. 
1671-A North Riverside Dr. South Bend, IN 46616 23.3-2212 

The Women's Softball Club opened up its season this past week. On Tuesday the team split a doubleheader with Purdue, losing 6-5 and winning 9-4. 
On Saturday, two errors in the fifth inning was all it took for Valparaiso to down the Irish, 4-0. 'Notre Dame also dropped the second contest, 11-1. 
The team has been boosted this season by two freshmen, pitcher Barb Mooney and utility player Mia Faust. Mooney pitched the first three contests, giving up only four earned runs and walking only three. Faust, who found a spot in the lineup due to injuries to several starters, was a catalyst in the leadoff spot against Purdue, hitting 3-for-4 in the first game. 
It was the Irish versus the Irish as the Notre Dame Rugby Club met the South Side Irish of Chicago. The club's Aside dropped a 15-6 decision, as Bill Young scored all the points on two penalty kicks. 
Notre Dame's B side, meanwhile, outran the Chicago team's Bside, 12-4.jeffHerman,Steve LaChance, and Drew Onufer each had a try for Notre Dame. The C side game was highlighted by Kevin Whelan's drop kick, one of the rarer forms ofscoring in the game. The Fighting Irish went on to dump the South Side Irish in that game, 12-7. 
The Women's Track Club took ninth place in the Hil­lsdale InvitationaJ this past weekend. Julia Merkel placed second in the 1500-meter run and third in the 3000-meter run with times of 4:47 and 10:44 r~spectively. jeanne Lut­her placed fourth in the javelin with a toss of 93-1 I, and Laura Gidley finished sixth in the long jump with a 15-6. 
Finally, the club sport to catch this weekend is the Women's Soccer Club's Fifth Annual Irish Invitational. The field is the biggest and strongest ever, featuring Indiana, Marquette, and Purdue. The action starts at 10 a.m. behind Stepan Center, and runs all afternoon. 

t*******************
: SENIORS ~ i VOTE FOR YOUR ~ 
~ SENIOR FELLOW i 
* * 
~ Tuesday 15th 11:00-1:OO in LaFortune ~ ~ Wednesday 16th & both dining halls~ 
* Student I.D. Required' * 
·············~····················· 

The Notre Dame Department of Communication and Theatre presents: 
A contemporary adaptation of the ancient 
popular devotion "The Stations of the 
Cross" exploring the fourteen "stations" 
along Christ's path to his resurrection. 


The Wav of the Cross 
Accordingto the Gospel of Mark 


Adaptation and Lyrics by Georgia Weber Bain and Reginald F. Bain, Sr. 
Music by Reginald F. Bain, Jr. 
Washington Hall 8:10PM April17, 18, 19 and 24, 25, 26 
General Admission $4 Group rates available Call (219) 239-5957 

-----~ ---~-----:-~----;--:--­

~4(Jt~C3L~------------------------------------------T-ue_s_d_ay_._A_p_ri_l_ls_._1_9_8_6_-p_a_g_e__ 
Bloom County 
llfr!M... M!tt/Sf7flf8( 
HltftW.•. S<lf(f liM Gllffl 
Yf5SS!Kte / 
f'J{(JJOGI(flfllei?... /IIOSTl'Y 
6{3PI/1l: HO 

1He'l 1T(JINSfeF?Ref? 
711K!N' f'ICTV~~ Or 
fleR&Ne ... Mf3MfF 
flr£a¥6 1/Nil !lfl81e~ 
NO CONfRtJWJIT/ON... 
IN 7JE f'I/!?K,

•!'eKS<J'IfltS ~­
0
Ifj~CrH. 
0
? 
u
C6 

Zeto 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Take shape 5 Actress Vera 
10 Clayey deposit 14 Melody 15 Awkward 16 Bread spread 17 Chatter 
endlessly 20 Child's 
pajamas 21 Clergyman 22 Red deer 23 Colloidal 
suspensions 24 Dromedaries 27 Fool 31 Pseudonym 32 Ancient Gr. 
city-state 33 Neckline shape 34 Shuttlecock 35 Sinker, 
slangily 36 Wife of Zeus 37 Arden 38 Flexes 
39 European · 1986 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 4/15/86All Rights Reserved
finch 
Monday's Solution 
40 Diving ducks 42 Conditions 10 Fashionable 43 No its,-11 Drug plant 
s L I "I·s T 
A 'IM A M A 

or buts 12 Game officials 
P I T A Is T E V E I L E X 44 Cheese source 13 Attic 
I 0 E S IS IO N A R •45 Kind of coat 18 Precious gems 
NORTHERNL liGHTS 
48 Cellar 19 Town on the 
-HAT.BEA
entrances RI\One 
WATIERIS STEEPLES
52 Elvis Presley 23 Stage direc­
IOEIAL.ALAR-ERA 
song tion 
E ols o
S H 
M E L I G H T 0 N54 Seed coat 24 Pole used in P 0 T-NIO 0 E.R A I S E

55 Having wings Gaelic games 56 Function 25 Swarming 
SIC H E M E.M A RIN E R 57 Hawaiian goose 26 Stuck ~-G P S 
I 0 T A­58 Coins 27 James and 
!Jil T F A 
N T ~IS T I C59 Leg joint Ward 

PiANis IEAGLE ISOSO 28 Turn inside 
RIICIO !PLEAT IELMIO DOWN out 
IOIRAN ISLEWS OIESK 1 Minnesota -29 Brood 2 Uttered 30 School 4/15/86 3 Stir up officials 4 Go forward 32 Ducks' milieus 42 Glove 48 Seth's dad 
5 UMW members 35 Non-paying materials 49 Egyptian 6 Lazy customer 44 Canea's land deity 7 No more no-36 Mental effort 45 Word of 50 Ivy League 8 N.T. book: 38 Long seat comparison school 
abbr. 39 Type of hat 46 Choice 51 Snick and ­9 Hurry! 41 Manage 47 Miss Moran 53 Clay once 


Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
© 1986 Umversal Press Synd1cate 
Kevin Walsh 

"Buffalo breath? Buffalo breath? .... Shall we discuss your Incessant little grunting noises?" 
Campus 

•NOON 
-lecture, "Human Rights in Latin •6:30 P.M. -meeting, Center for Social Con­America: Whither the Debate?", joseph E)­cerns, Sponsored by Amnesty International, ridge, Washington Office on Latin America, free 131 Decio Hall, Sponsored by Kellogg In­•7 P.M.-meeting, ISO Lounge, Sponsored by stitute, free International Students Organization, free 

•3:30 
P.M. -lecture, "Spectroscopic Studies •7 P.M. -meeting, LaFortune Little Theatre, ofthe Dynamic Behavior ofCatalytic Reaction Sponsored by AlESEC, free Systems", Dr. T. T. Tsotsis, University of Sout­•8 P.M.-organ redtal, Stevenjenkins, Sacred hern California, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall, Heart Church, Sponsored by Notre Dame Sponsored by Department of Chemical En­Department of Music, free gineering, free 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's Garlic Baked Chicken Veal Scallopini Stuffed Cabbage Roll Spaghetti with Marenaro and Clam Sauce Broccoli and Cheese Casserole -Beef Ravioli Pastrami Florentine Pasta Bean Casserole 
TV Tonight 

6P.M. 16 NewsCenter 16 28 Who's the Boss 22 22 Eyewitnessd News 34 Nova: Seeds of Tomorrow 28 WSJV Newswatch 28 46 Lester Sumrall Teaching 34 MacNeil/Lehrer Newshour 8:30P.M. 46 Skylite Cavalcade 46 Jim&Tammy 9P.M. 16 Hunter 
6:30P.M. 16 NBC Nightly News 28 Moonlighting 22 CBS Evening News 34 Odyssey: "Margaret Mead: 28 ABC's World News Tonight Taking Note" 
with Peter Jennings 436 Lesea Alive 
7P.M. 16 MyAySyH 10P.M. 16 Stingray 22 Three's Company 28 Spenser: For Hire 28 Jeopardy 34 Adam Smith Money World 
7:30P.M. 16 Barney Miller 46 Dwight Thompson 22 WKRP in Cincinnati llP.M. 16 NewsCenter 16 28 Wheel ofFortune 22 22 Eyewitness Witness News 34 Crime File 28 WSJV Newswatch 28 
8P.M. 16 TheA-Team 34 Body Electric 22 CBS Special: Dream West 46 Pralse the Lord 
TTLEMONEY? 
The Student Activities Board Movies Commission and Publicity Commission are looking for workers for 1986-87. 
Ifinterested, contact the SAB office at 239-7757. 
It pays! 

Tuesday, April 15, 1986-page 12 

Storms douse players in Bookstore Round 2 
By MIKE CARDINALE 10, where a large puddle under­Sports Writer neath one basket greatly restricted inside moves. On this court, Joseph Inclement weather conditions Price's team, Port-A-Pit, slipped by a dominated action yesterday as talented Chabumba squad, 21-19. Bookstore Basketball XV began its Unfortunately, shooting statistics for second round. this and many other games played 
The downpour during the 4 p.m. yesterday were impossible to keep. and 4:45 p.m. games frustrated On the comparatively dry Stepan players, made scorekeeping ex­Courts, Four Fags and A Zahmbie tremely difficult, drenched those continued their winning ways with a fans that braved the weather, and 21-8 victory over the blatantly inac­generally created very sloppy play. curate We're Not Going To Make It 
The rain did not dampen the an­Past The First Round, So Why Think tics of 5 Guys That Smell The Glove, Up A Clever Name. however, as they appeared wildly Also at Stepan, Keenan Inmates II 
dressed for their game against the coasted to a 21-6 victory over The 
seeded team in the Rex Rakow Sec­Snackers. And the final seeded team tional, The Lee's BBQ Roundhouse. playing yesterday, Mr. Coffey and One of the 5 Guys, John Sullivan, the Non-Dairy Creamers, beat swallowed three goldfish during the Dave's Heavy Towing, 21-5, despite game in order to maintain his energy the loss of Tony Eason to discipli­level. nary susp~nsion. 
"It's sort of a nutritious snack," In other games with discernible said Sullivan. "It keeps your scoresheets, Dick Prosen's 9-for-1 7 adrenalin up." shooting led Dick Prosen and the 
Despite the goldfish, Sullivan Get Fresh Crew past Sorry JR., 2 1­could only score on one of his nine 18. Jeff Niekelski scored eight points field goal attempts, as Lee's BBQ to help Four People and a Short Fat romped to a 21·10 victory. Yet he Guy nip Captain Kirk and Four Guys was quick to point out the impact of with Big Phasers by a 22-20 score. the weather. John Rischard and Steve O'Neil 
"We had a few tricks up our sleeve added five baskets apiece for the that we couldn't use because of the winners. weather," lamented Sullivan. "It was Now We Go To School survived then that we realized we couldn't the wind and rain at Lyons to defeat 
Bookstore Basketball XV began second-round sinault ofOur Best Team (shown with ball above) win." The Fellas, 21-1 5. John Trimberger
play yesterday on the asphalt around campus. Al­hit this shot to help his team to a 21-7 victory over Jim Dolan and Mike Kovaleski proved to be the best student, though torrential rains washed out most official We Shoot Pool. Mike Cardinale details all the ac­turned in stellar performances for scoring on 7-of-14 attempts from the scoring records, there was no doubt Tom Pas­
tion in his story at right. Lee's BBQ, as they each shot 8-for-9 field. Tom Seitz scored six hoops in a from the field. Chuck Lennon, ex­losing effort. ecutive director of the Notre Dame Pam Butler finally got revenge as 5
Split track squads find similar fates 
Alumni Association, played his Flannerites Who Hate Pam Butler second consecutive game for Lee's, dropped a 21-12 decision to Cat­-this time filling in for the injured herine the Great Meets Mr. Ed -The Steve Beuerlein. Beuerlein, who Final Encounter. Phil Buckingham sprained an ankle during spring foot­and Pat Clark each had seven buck­
at Dogwood, Boilermaker Relays 
By BOB KEMPER of the outdoor collegiate track Gilmore, Van Pearcy, and John 
Sports Writer 
season," said Piane. "There are no McNelis along with sophomore team scores, but for an individual to Tony Ragunas also took second 

The Notre Dame track team place is quite an accomplishment." place. divided its squad for competition Junior Jeff Van Wie qualified for At the Boilermaker Relays several this past weekend. Coach Joe Piane the IC4A Championships in the BOO­other athletes posted strong efforts. sent his "A" team to Knoxville, Tenn. meter race with a time of 1:49.78. Most notable was the performance for the Dogwood Relays, while his Several other Irish runners, of sophomore John Dadamio in the "B" team ventured to West however, also performed well in the 800-meter race. Dadamio par­Lafayette, Ind. for the Boilermaker same event. Junior Robert Nobles ticipated in his first event of the Relays. ran a time identical to Van Wie's, season after sitting out with an in­
But while the squads were in dif­while senior co-captain John jury, and took fourth place with a ferent places, they both had McNelis turned in a time of 1:50.70 time of 1:55.2. similarly impressive individual and freshman Dave Warth was The Irish javelin corps also showings in the non-scoring meets. clocked at 1:52.30. demonstrated a strong effort. The 
The Dogwood Relays provided In other events senior Jim Tyler freshman trio of Chuck Curley, John the Irish with top-notch competiton reached the finals in the 1500-meter Eustermann and Mike Napier posted from about 65 other schools. and captured second place with a marks of 166.8 feet, 166.6 ft., and "The Dogwood Relays is one of time of 3:45.42, while the sprint the most prestigious relay carnivals medley team of seniors Phil see IRISH, page 9 
Keys gets 2nd MVP 
Women's banquet honors·'86 team 
By MIKE SZ¥MANS.KI Senior forward Teena Keys was named the Outstanding Defensive AssistantSports Editor tabbed for the second year in a row Player. With 205 assists this season, as the team MVP. The All-America Gavin is closing in on the all-time The message was clear at the candidate led the Irish in points, Notre Dame assist record with 321. Notre Dame women's basketball scoring average ( 19.6 pts. ), free Gavin also was named second team awards banquet last night that the throws, field goals, and blocked all-NSC member. Keys was the NSC program has arrived to national shots. Keys now is the Notre Dame Player of the Year for the second status. career scoring leader at 1,589 year in a row and was named to the 
While the order of business at the points. WNIT all-tournament team. annual affair has in the past stressed Senior forward Lynn Ebben gar­Sophomore center Sandy Botham the individual accomplishments of nered both the Scholar-Athlete also was included in the first team team members, this year's banquet award and the Coach's Award. Eb· all-NSC, and ranked sixth in the na­
also focused on the team's overall ben and Keys together have 
tion in field goal percentage at 63.3. 

success and first major post-season combined for two North Star Con­Botham scored in double figures in tournament appearance since a ference titles and a four-year record 19 straight games and averaged 15.4 move to Division I six seasons ago. of77-37. points a game and 7.3 rebounds in 
Notre Dame finished the season The two graduating seniors that stretch. with a 23·8 slate, including an NSC 
played for the final time in March's Notre Dame head coach Mary DiS· title with a. 13· I record. In addition, Women's National Invitational tanislao ended her sixth year on the ·-the team finished second in the na­Tournament which marked the first Irish bench with a 103·64 (.617) Tht: Obs~rvc.-r/Filc Photo 


tion in field-goal percentage defense  time in Notre Dame's six-year his­ record and 192-94 (.678) mark in  Notre Dame senior forward Trena Keys scored another award  
at 37.4 percent, ninth in scoring  tory as a Division I entry that the  11 seasons, including three 20 win  yesterday as she was named the team's MVP for the second straight  
defense at 57.8 points per game, and  Irish advanced to postseason play.  seasons over the past four years. DiS­ year. The award for Keys, who is the Irish all-time scoring leader,  
fifteenth in both scoring margin at  The team finished third in the annual  tanislao was named NSC Coach of  was one ofseveral presented last night at the team's awards ban­ 
I 5.0 and field-goal percentage at  tournament held in Amarillo, Texas.  the Year as the Irish set the single  quet. Mike Szymanski bas more on the banquetproceedings in his  
50.2.  Sophomore guard Mary Gavin was  season win total.  story at left.  






