
------------------~--~----~~-~~----------------------------~-------~~------------
Malloy selection -page 7 

VOL. XXI, NO. 53 SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1986 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

'Monk' chosen 
'Humbled' associate provost to be 16th president of ND 
By MARK PANKOWSKI the board also elected Father E. News Editor William Beauchamp as executive vice 
president. "I'm humbled." Beauchamp, who was one of the five Those were the first words of Asso­presidential candidates, will succeed 
ciate Provost Father Edward "Monk" Father Edmund Joyce. Beauchamp will Malloy upon being announced Friday. also serve five years. as the next president of Notre Dame. In addition, the board voted to renew 
Meeting Friday afternoon, the Board Provost Timothy O'Meara's term on Malloy's recommendation. Campus reaction -page 3 O'Meara, who as provost has been Malloy's boss, will serve the same term 
Malloy the man -page 5 

as Malloy and Beauchamp. of Trustees elected Malloy the 16th Flanked at a crowded news confer­president in Notre Dame's 144-year his­ence by Hesburgh and Board of Trus­tory. tees Chairman Donald Keough, Malloy 
Malloy, 45, will succeed Father said, "No one can replace Father Hes­Theodore Hesburgh as president fol­burgh nor do I intend to try. lowing commencement on May 17, 1987 "But together, together in the admin­and will serve five years. istration, together with the trustees, to­
Malloy's term, which is renewable, gether with my fellow brothers and will officially begin July 1, 1987. On the recommendation of Malloy, see MONK, page 6 
Other candidates 'delighted' 
By TRIPP BALTZ "Today is a triumph for the Congre­News Editor gation of the Holy Cross," said McCaf­ferty. 
Delight and relief were the emotions Warm support for the board's deci­expressed by the three candidates for sion was also shown by Vice President University president who were not se­for Student Affairs Father David lected for the top two executive posts. Tyson. 
Father Michael McCafferty revealed "Excellent choice," Tyson said. his enthusiasm for the selection of Fa­"Malloy has good vision. He strikes me ther Edward "Monk" Malloy to be the as the collaborative type of administra­16th top executive leader of Notre tor. Dame. "Everyone has been looking forward 
"It's great. I'm extremely encour­to Nov. 14. I say the most exciting time aged, not just about the appointment of will be the time after that," he added. Father Malloy, but for the future years The third candidate, Father Ernest ahead," said McCafferty, one of the Bartell said "I'm happy for Notre five men considered for the position of University president. see DELIGHT, page 6 

Beauchamp elected executive vice president 
Divestment 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI the board on Malloy's · rec­centrate on those, and to have brought in today. But Father

assessment 
Assistant News Editor 

comendation. great confidence in them," said Malloy is the boss," he said. "I see in Bill and (Provost Malloy. Beauchamp said he and Mal­
With the election of Father loy will model their adminis­William Beauchamp to the po­tration after that of Hesburgh sition of executive vice presi­and Joyce. That's (Malloy's) 

postponed 

By JIM RILEY Assistant News Editor 
dent, he and newly elected Uni­model. We will function as a versity President Father team," he said. The Notre Dame Board of 
Edward "Monk" Malloy will "I think both (Father Joyce) Trustees Friday decided to 
work as a team, Beauchamp and I believe the new team completely reassess the Uni­
said. 

going now are going to bring a versity's investment policy 
Beauchamp, 44, current ex­new spirit to the place. They're in May 1987 but did not take 
ecutive assistant to University going to bring new ideals and any action at the present 
President Father Theodore new initiatives, and that's time, according to Richard 
Hesburgh, and previously con­good," said Hesburgh. Conklin, assistant vice pres­
sidered a possible successor to Beauchamp, in addition to ident for University rela­
Hesburgh, will succeed Father his role as executive assistant tions, speaking at a noon 
Edmund Joyce, current execu­to the president, has also press conference. 
tive vice president. served as assistant professor of "Essentially there isn't 
management in the College of any change in Notre Dame's 
Joyce is retiring this year Business Administration. current policy,'' said Con­
after serving at Hesburgh's Beauchamp graduated from klin. 
side for the past 35 years. the University of Detroit in 1964 The only real change, ac­
Both Malloy and Beauchamp with a B.S. degree in account­cording to Conklin, is the 
will serve five-year terms ing, receiving an M.B.A. see DIVEST, page 4 
beginning on July 1, 1987. Beauchamp was elected by see TEAM, page 5 
• 






r 
The Observer 




In Brief 
A striking teacher in Pleasonton, Calif., helped to break up a kidnapping attempt by slamming the suspect with his picket sign, police said. Investigators said the incident outside the Fairlands Elementary School on Wednesday began when a man drove up in a truck, grabbed Nannette LeVesque, 39, by the arm and said, "Let's go, girl." LeVesque, who did not know the man, resisted and a friend of hers tried to help her. Then striking teacher Neil Shumate, 41, ran over, hit the man with a picket sign and wrestled him to the ground, police said. -Associated Press 
A baby believed to be the newborn taken from his mother in Pennsylvania last week was found alive and well Thursday, and a man and a woman were arrested on kidnapping charges, the FBI said. Although the parents of Phillip Worthington still were awaiting the child's pos­itive identification Thursday night, they announced that it was the "happiest day of our lives." Charged with kid­napping were Ramona Joan Thompson and George Stanley Soustek, said Andy Manning, a spokesman for the FBI in Baltimore. FBI agents arrested the two with the baby in a parking lot near a suburban Baltimore shopping mall. The woman was in a car with the baby. The week-old infant was believed to be the baby born Nov. 6 in Sellersville, Pa., to Neil and Barbara Worthington, Man­ning said. "We have not positively identified that child. We are printing the baby's feet and making all efforts to positively identify him," Manning said. -Associated Press 
Divesting may be against the law, says a New Mexico official. The governor recently ordered state universities to divest their interests in firms with operations in South Africa, but the state's chief investment officer says the order violates the state's "prudent man rule," which re­quires him to manage the portfolio as profitable as possi­ble. -The Observer 
It's no laughing matter, said University of Florida offi­cials after they refused to allow on-campus filming of a comedy to be broadcast on the Playboy Channel. They objected because the show would use the UF name for profit and because the school does not agree with Playboy's depiction of women. Now, the producers have filmed the show at the University of Wisconsin. -The Observer 
A Reptilian Ripoff netted charges of "unlawful posses­sion of an alligator" against two University of Florida students. The duo say they "got a little fired up" about an upcoming football game and took the 6-foot animal from a nearby lake to their apartment. Witnesses called the police and the 'gator nappers were nabbed within the hour. The handcuffs? They were for the alligator. -The Observer 

Of Interest 
Varsity Band auditions will be held throughout Monday and Tuesday. Interested students may sign up in Wash­ington Hall's band room. For more information, contact the band office. -The Observer 
A Semester Around the World program at Saint Mary's College will be discussed tonight from 6 to 8 at Carroll Auditorium. Slides, movies, and vidiotapes will be shown and refreshments will be served. -The Observer 


Weather 
This is snow fun! Increasing clouds 
Friday and highs in the low 30s will allow everybody to "chill out" for the weekend. There is a 30 percent chance of light snow Friday with lows near 30. With a 50 per­cent chance of showers Saturday and highs near 40, everybody should "warm up" to tailgate and watch the game. -The 

Observer 

~--~------..~--------~~­

Widely -recognized leaders provide insight on success 
----~_..,-----~ ----~--~~---­
Saturday, November 15, 1986-page 2 
Design Editor .. ~. ~ ~. ~. ~. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~. ~ Chris Bowler Design Assistant·~ ·~~~~··~~·Chris Donnelly .............................................. Bob White Typesetters.............. ... ~ .. Smed Laboe ........................................... Michael Buc ........................................ Chris Reardon News Editor ... ~~ ~ .. ~~~~ Mary Heilmann Copy Editor ........................ Bud Luepke Sports Copy Editor ....... Dennis Corrigan Viewpoint Copy Editor ..... Sarah Marley Viewpoint Layout.. ···~ Melissa Warnke Accent Copy Editor ... ~~~ ..... Mary Jacoby Accent Layout~.~ ....... Melissa Warnke Typists........ . . .................. Esther Ivory ............................................ Colleen Foy N D Doy Editor ~ ~ .............. David Lee Ad Design.............. Mary Carol Creadon Irish Extra Layout .. Kathleen McKernan Photographer ... ~~· .......... James Carroll ........................................ Paul Oeschger 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
"Having a bad start was probably the best thing that ever happened to me. We went 5-5 my first year, then lost the opener the following year. Everybody was placing bets on who would succeed me. 
"Had we been moderately successful, I never would have questioned the way I was coaching. Now I constantly question everything I do." 
These are the words of visiting football coach Joe Paterno commenting in an advertisement called "on staying power," which is sponsored by Panhandle Eastern Corporation and appears in such newspapers as The New York Times. 
"On staying power" contains conversations with people widely recognized as perennial leaders in their professions. The purpose of the advertisements is to provide insight into the enduring values and attitudes that lead to suc­cess over a long period of time. 
Recently, Charles Schulz, the creator of the Peanuts comic strip gave his philosophy on how he stays on top of his field. 
Schulz said, "I am not concerned with simply surviving. I am very concerned about improv­ing. 
"To have staying power you must accommo­date yourself to the task. I have never main­tained that a comic strip is Great Art. It simply happens to be something I feel uniquely qualified to do," Schulz said. 
From the words of recognized leaders, one should note leadership is a learning process. To maintain leadership one must do what he does best and leave to others what he cannot do well. 
In short, one can see common threads be­tween most of society's leaders. One could con­clude that universal principles exist which as­sist successful leaders. 
How a leader interprets these principles helps determine whether he succeeds or fails at his task. 
At Notre Dame, University President Father Theodore Hesburgh has staying power built on a clarity of purpose and a spirit of tenacity, a tenacity he inherited from his predecessors who built and rebuilt Notre Dame. 
In "The Hesburgh Papers," Hesburgh wrote, "Over the years, one's philosophy of education grows and becomes more precise and detailed. What I wrote 15 years ago I would hardly write today." 
Hesburgh has, as Schulz said, "accom­modated" himself to the task at hand. He has changed the University while constantly learn­ing from the changes he has witnessed. 
"Of course every leader has to have a per­sonal vision of where he or she wants to lead, but just having it won't do. Effective leadership means getting the best people you can find to share the vision and help in achieving it. Whe­ther you are talking about being president of the United States or president of Willow Grove College, the principle is equally valid," Hes­burgh wrote. 
Interestingly, both Paterno and Hesburgh, two different kind of leaders, both quoted Chur-chill, who faced problems of much greater proportion than either of these leaders. 

Paterno wrote, "I never get excited by a win, because, as Churchill said, 'Success is never final.' Likewise, I never get depressed over a loss. I look for the lesson in it." 
Hesburgh cited Churchill's quote, "The only guide to a man is his conscience." He was using Churchill's statement to show that a man must do what is right over what is popular. 
When Father Edward Malloy and Father William Beauchamp replace Hesburgh and Ex­ecutive Vice President Father Edmund Joyce, these two new leaders will have to structure their own philosophy of leadership. 
Fortunately, like Hesburgh, Paterno and Schulz, Notre Dame's new leaders will have the example and words of history's finest leaders as a guide. 
History's message, though, applies not only to famous leaders but to all people, whether they lead an army, a team, a university or a small staff of workers. 
Leadership involves sacrifice, patience, com­passion and a host of intangible qualities the men I have cited possess. 
None of this means leaders are not human. In fact, Hesburgh wrote that the most important quality of the person who governs well is "essere umano, to be human." 
Leaders make mistakes, just as all of us do. We should expect nothing more of them than we expect of ourselves: to be the best we can be "with what we have, where we are," asHes­burgh has so many times said. 
Notre Dame should receive the new president in that spirit. We must let him grow in the office that has grown so much during Hesburgh's 35 years. 


GO IRISH! 
Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
General Board 
Editor-in-Chief ................................... Joe Murphy Photography Editor ....................... James Carroll Managing Editor ............................ Kevin Becker Advertising Design News Editor ........................................ Tripp Baltz Manager .......................... Mary Carol Creadon Viewpoint Editor .............................. Scott Bearby Advertsing Manager ................ Anne M. Culligan Sports Editor .............................. Dennis Corrigan OCN Manager ........................ Francis X. Malone Accent Editor .................................. Mary Jacoby Business Manager ................. Eric Scheuermann Saint Mary's Editor ..................... Margie Kersten Systems Manager ........................ Shawn Sexton News Editor ............................... Mark Pankowski Controller .................................. Alex VonderHaar Production Manager ....................... Chris Bowler Graphic Arts Manager ................. Mark Weimholt 
Founded November 3, 1966 




---~---------....._-._,
------------------~~~---------­
The Observer 



Hickey expresses 'delight' over decision for Malloy 
By MARGIE KERSTEN Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's students, faculty and administrators have all speculated who the new president of Notre Dame would be, who was an­nounced Friday as Father Edward "Monk" Malloy. 
"I am delighted with the choice of Malloy as Notre Dame's next president," said Saint Mary's President William Hickey. "His years of experience in the office of provost gives him good in­sight on the University; it's the best position to learn the innerworkings of the Univer­sity." 
"In my mind, I thought Malloy would probably be selected." He has the ordi­nary background of a president and has served as a faculty member, he said, adding, "He knows what makes a University run." 
Hickey said he has known Malloy for a number of years and that he hopes for a positive relationship with Saint Mary's. "His desire to maintain Notre Dame as an outstanding Catholic Uni­versity will be supportive to Saint Mary's." 
Acting Vice President and 
Dean of Faculty for the Col­
lege, Dorothy Feigl said she 
speculated, just as many 
students did, about the new Notre Dame president. "Malloy has the difficult challenge of filling a position that has been held by Father Ted for 35 years." He comes with the best background and a broad view of the Uni­versity, she added. 
"Malloy will need time to be able to unravel his own plan on how he will be ... and I think he will be his own person," Hickey said. 
A Nov. 2 Chicago Tribune article stated that Malloy had been chosen president. Hickey said he thought this article must have had the hardest impact on Malloy himself, because he would be wondering if it were true. 
"We wish him good for­tune," said Feigl. Hickey said Hesburgh gave him ad­vice when he bacame presi­dent in February, and "I would give the same advice to Malloy." 
You have to be courageous because you will face a lot of tough decisions, he said. "Sometimes the easy way to provide an answer may not be the right way, and the right way may not be the popular way," Hickey said. "Never lose your sense of humor . . . a monumental crisis today may be trivial in 10 years." 
Most importantly, however, is to keep laugh­ing, he said. 


23d?'UdV<D'~ {\~\~\ h~q
@ an() 111amily i&e.staurant 
Bruno's now delivers FREE to ND and SMC campuses. (Delivery starting Monday, Nov. 17) n aO all toppings 610. 
~"?. ,_..Si 
\1-'~-'l). Follow 23 South to: Q'~s ~e 'Q 2610 Prairie Ave. Sql.!s. \,.'(?).~ Sou.th Bend q.g~ 

288-3320 
Saturday, November 15, 1986-page 3 

ND community applauds decision 
By MIRIAM HILL 
Senior Staff Reporter 
Members of the Notre Dame community applauded Friday's appointment of Asso­ciate Provost Father Edward "Monk" Malloy as University president, calling him "the best of the candidates." 
"I can't imagine anyone not liking Ed Malloy," said Father Richard McBrien, chairman of Notre Dame's theology depart­ment. Malloy is an associate professor of Christian ethics in McBrien's department. 
"Negative comments or lack of enthusiasm for the appoint­ment will come from people who had a different candidate. And my answer to them is: Thank God it's Ed Malloy. As far as I'm concerned, he's the best of all the candidates," McBrien said. 
Malloy, who will replace Uni-. versity President Father Theodore Hesburgh in May, is considered a careful thinker who is able to make tough deci­sions, according to faculty and students interviewed. 
"He's well-respected, care­ful, thoughtful, tough when he has to be, reasonable, and solid," said John Roos, an as­sociate professor of govern­ment and international studies who has served on two commit­tees with Malloy. 
Notre Dame Magazine Editor Walton Collins echoed Roos' opinion. "Malloy just seems to have a kind of serene quality that I think is good in an administrator, someone who can deal with what comes along and cope with it without a lot of wasted emotion," Col­lins said. 
Several people characterized Malloy, 45, as a down-to-earth administrator who is aware of the concerns of both students and faculty. 
"Although I think it's fair to say Notre Dame will probably lose a lot with the departure of Father Hesburgh with respect to fundraising, and public rela­tions . . . I think what Father Malloy will bring to the job is a greater sense of closeness to the internal operations of the University," McBrien said. 
McBrien added, however, 
that Malloy will have to be­
come more outgoing in order 
to fulfill his duties as president. 
"Malloy doesn't like to draw at­
tention to himself. The other 
side of the line, of course, is 
that the job requires a lot more 
than that," he said. 
McBrien and others noted that Malloy has made un­usually strong efforts as asso­ciate provost to stay in tune with Notre Dame faculty mem­bers. 
Since he was appointed asso­ciate provost in 1982, for exam­ple, Malloy has tried to talk with each of Notre Dame's 800 faculty, Roos said. 
Among students, Malloy has earned a reputation as a well-rounded man who can just as easily discuss ethical issues like abortion as mix it up on the basketball court with the residents of Sorin Hall, where he lives. 
"Although he has some strong opinions himself, he seems to be open-minded to the students in his class. I think he will be an excellent president to replace Hesburgh," said Notre Dame senior Chris Toal, one of Malloy's students. 
"He always makes it a point to tell his students that if they have any problems or ques­tions, to stop by and see him in Sorin," Toal added. 
As Malloy assumes the posi­tion of president, many people agree that his greatest outside asset will be the tradition left by Hesburgh. 
Frank Reilly, dean of the Col­lege of Business Administra­tion, said Malloy will be able to build on the strong financial foundation built by Hesburgh. In his 35-year tenure as presi­dent, Hesburgh has increased the University's endowment from $9 million to more than $350 million. 
"Malloy has one of the criti­
cal qualities that is needed and 
that is 'vision' of where Notre 
Dame should go in the future,'' 
Reilly said. 
Added Collins: "It's a big 
job, but I have a hunch he's 
going to do pretty well." 
Congratulations 
Fr. Edward "Monk" Malloy 

i CHR,S' 5 



!ICE CREAM! 
: Buy a Sundae or a Mix-In : : and get a Sundae or a Mix-In : • absolutely FREE. • 
: 1723 South Bend Ave. : e (Next to Turtle Creek) e 

Mon-Frl 7-11 Saturday 8-9:30
'3.25 

WORLD WRESRING~FEDERATION® PRESENTS WEDNESDAY, NOV. 19th ~ PROMPTLY AT 7:30PM 
ATHLETIC &CONVOCATION CENTER "EX-PARTNERS COLLIDE!!" 
WWF HEAVYWEIGHT CHAMPION 
HULK HOGAN 
vs 

"MR WONDERFUL" 
PAUL ORNDORFF 
*SPECIAL OPENING MAIN EVENT* TITO SANTANA 
VS 

AMALA "THE UGANDAN HEADHUNTER'' 
PLUS 18 MATCHES FEATURING ALL THE TOP WWF STARS CH AS: RANDY SAVAGE, KOKO B. WARE, HERCULES HERNADEZ, THE BRITISH BULLDOGS, NIKOLAI VOLKOFF, AND MORE!! LIVE "PIPER'S PIT" 
Tickets on sale at A.C. C. BOX OFFICE, SEARS (Mish. & Elkhart), ST. JOSEPH BANK (Main Office), NIGHTWINDS (Mish. & Niles), JR's (LaPorte), MUSIC MAJIC (Benton Harbor), JUST FOR THE RECORD (T&C Shopping Centre) 
******************** 
tFR. EDWARD t 
~  ~  
~ ~  Congratulations  ~ ~  
~ ic  ~ ~  



~ MALLOY! ~ 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ic ~ ic 
~ ~NOTRE DAME ~ ~ ~CREDIT UNION ~ 
~ ~ ~ ~ 
~Separate from University of Notre Dame ~ 
~------~~~~~~~~~~******************** 



___,_______ 
The Observer 

Decision called 'as bad as could be' 
By JIM RILEY 
Assistant News Editor 
Approximately 75 to 100 people, mostly students, gath­ered outside the Board of Trus­tees meeting Friday around noon to express concern over the the Board's decision con­cerning divestment. 
Peter Walshe, professor of government and international studies and member of the Ad Hoc Committee on South African Investments, an­nounced to the group that the Board had not decided to divest and that the decision was "about as bad as it could be. 
"Father Hesburgh is deeply reluctant to divest. The trus­tees have decided to wait until May to divest when Hesburgh is retiring," said Walshe. 
Father Oliver Williams, pro­fessor of management and also a member of the ad hoc com­mittee, said later, "I think timimg the alleged divestment with Hesburgh's retirement is ridiculous." 
Williams said Hesburgh was in fact quite open to divest­ment, but that Williams him­self was the major force against divestment at this time. 
Walshe said Notre Dame committed last May to divest if the situation in South Africa deteriorated. "The situation has since deteriorated catastrophically,'' said Walshe. "The evidence is clear." 

"The committee felt it's not clear to us at this point, that having a company leave does more good than having it stay,'' Williams said. 
Williams said, "The policy gives us plenty of flexibility and also we are very much on record as opposed to apartheid in South Africa." 
Two banners were taken away from the group by a man identifying himself as a secur­ity officer, according to several students present at the gather­ing. Rex Rakow, director of se­curity, said he would not com­ment until Monday. 

committee and professor of having employees in South Cameras focus in on the other decision of the day as students management. Africa," he said. outside the board of trustees' meeting, held in the CCE, protest 

Divest 

All the endowments of uni­The investments amount to apartheid and University investment in South Africa. 
continuedfrom page 1 

versities that have been follow­$33 million or 9 percent of the trustees have pointed to next ing the Sullivan principles face University's endowment, ac­May to make a review. a dilemma, said Williams. cording to Conklin. 
Congratulations

"Most of us feel that the (South The ad hoc committee is "That's the pressure point," African) government won't made up of six trustees and 
Fr. Edward "Monk" 
said Conklin. have eliminated all those three faculty members. Only "There was never a formal laws," said Williams. Since Peter Walshe, professor of gov­
Malloy!

vote taken" by the Board, said Sullivan has said he will call ernment and international re­Conklin. The report of the for divestment in that case, the lations and director of African 
Jim Dettling Board of Trustees Ad Hoc Com­University will have to decide studies, dissented from the ad mittee on South African Invest­whether there is reason to keep hoc committee's report. 
ironwood liquors 
ments was received by the those investments, said Wil-Board, and then the Board 

liams. ...--------------. 
1725 North Ironwood South Bend 
moved on to other business, ac­Conklin said the University 
Congratulations
cording to Conklin. During the adopted the enhanced Sullivan presentation of the report, one principles in 1984. 

Fr. Edward clarification was asked for, but The American Catholic bis­
"Monk" Malloy 
otherwise the Board received hops have called on Catholic in­the report as it was presented. stitutions to divest from busi­Most of the conclusions of the nesses operating in South 
ALL TOO CAN EAT!
ad hoc committee's report Africa or use their votes in 
Slrloh! Dlnntr 
were restatements of past shareholder referendums if 
FlfHIHStrlt 

policy, according to Conklin. there is no significant progress 
T-.-n.un. The first conclusion, however, toward dismantling apartheid 100 Center Old was new. It said "the commit­by May 1987, according to the Brewery Building 
Mishawaka
tee recognizes the need for · committee's report. 
· Reservations
complete reasessment of its in­The investment committee, 
255-1526 

vestment policy in May, 1987 ad hoc committee, and execu­T-.-Thur. S-9 
..... & lat. 5-10
following publication of Rever­tive committee have the power end Sullivan's recommen­to divest from certain busi­
dations and pursuant to evalu­nesses at any time without call­ation of progress by the South ing the full board together, said African government in the dis­Conklin. The committees have mantling of apartheid called used this power recently to for by the American bishops." divest their holdings in certain 
Sullivan said in May 1985 that companies, said Conklin, if all statutory apartheid was though the Board did not not eliminated from South specify the names of those com­Africa by May 1987, all com­panies. panies should leave South Notre Dame has divested Africa and an economic em­about 13 companies from its bargo should be undertaken, portfolio since its first policy in according to Father Oliver Wil­1978 said Conklin. "We have liams, member of the ad hoc inve~tments in 29 companies 

·" G~
of 20% Discount not including sale items 


Good t1mes mean !Jetting together At Anheuser-Busch, we are con· w1th good buddies and Budwe1ser. cerned about you. our valued
N.D.-S.M.C. 

There's something about a couple of customer. We support research. beers w1th tnends that makes for great educat1on and treatment programs camaradene. a1med at combating alcoholism and
Students 

Beer IS meant to be enJoyed by alcohol abuse. adults socially. It IS also the beverage To obtain your personal key nng of MODERATION. Good judgment gu1de to responsible beer drink1ng. should be used whenever you d'nnk. send $1 .50 which 1ncludes postage 
Make sure "your dnnk1ng budd1es and handling to: are th1nk1ng budd1es' and exerc1se good judgment. Especially it they MODERATION KEY RING drive! When they need a good friend W. 1614 Rivers1de 
.. think for them! Don't let them get Spokane, WA 99201· behind the wheel -the outcome could be disastrous. 



niversity Park Mall and Concord & Pierre Moran Malls -Elkhart 



-----~-------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

272·7144 

o<:-Congratulations I
r----------------· 
1 0~q  Fr. Edward "Monk" Malloy  I  
1°  YOGI'S YOGURT  1  
II  Chocolate, vanilla, strawberry plus a special fla-vor each day  I1  
I  2 5 eoff  00M>m~..m "',"~  I  

I Expires Nov. 211
st.Rd.23,NEcornerotlronwood(AcrossfromMartln's) 
-----------------· 

The Observer Saturday, November 15, 1986-page 5 

Malloy well-equipped to lead Notre Dame 
By MIRIAM HILL and CINDY RAUCKHORST Senior Staff Reporters 
Notre Dame's newly-named president will come to the job well-equipped, bring­ing with him an extensive background in both educa­tional and administrative aspects of the University. 
Father Edward "Monk" Malloy, a 45-year-old native of Washington, D.C., most recently has served as the University's associate provost. In this position, he has assisted Provost Timothy O'Meara in coordinating all facets of University academic life. 
Malloy has spent about half of his life here, arriving in 1959 on a University basket­ball scholarship. 
The Sorin Hall resident said he will continue to live in the hall next year. 
"I've found I enjoy living in a dorm... it gives me an ac­cessibility that I wouldn't have otherwise," Malloy said. 
Basketball fans expressed enthusiasm at Malloy's deci­sion to continue the tradition of "Monk Hoops," the weekly Sorin contests named for Mal­loy. 
"I'll play as long as I can still walk," Malloy said. "I en­joy playing basketball as much now, if not more, than I did (during his days as a Notre Dame player)." 
The new president, well­known among students for his accessibility and ability to relate to undergraduate con­cerns, said he values this reputation among students. 
"I prize spending time and being available to students, and I will struggle to find ways to have a presence with students, or as many students as I can," he said. 
In the past, Malloy has maintained student contact primarily through his popular theology courses, whose con­sistently large class lists at­test to the associate profes­sor's reputation as a campus educator. 
Malloy has chaired two 
University-wide committees, one which recommended up­dates in the core curriculum, and another which last year instigated an academic honesty code for the Univer­sity. 

Described by many as a prolific writer, Malloy spe­cializes in the study of Chris­tian ethical issues such as sexuality, war and peace, criminology and biomedicine. He has written two books and numerous articles on ethical subjects. 
"I think any public figure today has to have social con­cerns, and my particular training is to teach about them," he said. 
At Vanderbilt University, Malloy earned a doctoral degree in Christian ethics in 1975 after completing theological studies as part of a Smith Fellowship. 
He then returned to Notre Dame as a member of the the­ology department faculty. 
During an undergraduate trip to Mexico with the Com­munity for the Lay Apost­ulate, Malloy said he received a calling to the priesthood. But before entering Moreau Seminary in 1969, Malloy completed his undergraduate and master's degrees in En­glish at Notre Dame, in 1963 and 1967 respectively. 
While at Moreau, Malloy completed a master's degree in theology, and in 1970 was ordained a priest in Sacred Heart Church. 
"For me, my primary iden­tity is as a priest," Malloy said. He added that being Notre Dame's president will simply be another way for him to carry out his ministry as a priest. 
Malloy said his decision to enter the priesthood also was influenced by his strong Cath­olic background. 
"I was an altar boy, I went to Catholic grade school and high school," he said, adding that there were many priests over the years whom he ad­mired and who influenced his decision. 
Team 
continuedfrom page 1 
degree from the same institu­tion two years later. He pursued postgraduate studies in higher education on a part­time basis at Michigan State University between 1966 and 1971 while teaching and serving as associate director of admis­sions at Alma College in Alma, Michigan. 
In 1975, after receiving a Juris Doctor degree from the University of Notre Dame Law School, he returned to Alma to work as an attorney in a gen­eral practice law firm. He en­tered Moreau Seminary at Notre Dame in January, 1977, received a master'~ in divinity degree in 1981 and was or­dained a priest April 17, 1982. Between 1980 and 1984, when he assumed his present position, he served as administrative as­sistant to Notre Dame's exec­utive vice president Father Joyce. 
In 1984, he chaired the Uni­versity Committee on the Re­sponsible Use of Alcohol, which set the University's present policy on student use and abuse of alcohol. 


Considering a serious involvement with an ffiM PC? 

Get the inside story on the family! 
...At the IBM-ON-CAMPUS PC Fair. See what an ffiM Personal Computer can do to make your academic life a lot 
.
easier. 

Microcomputer Fair 
Computer Center/Math Building 
November 20, 1986 9am to 4pm 
Prizes will be given away (limited quantities) 
.:::. . -:~ 
r 
Congratulations Fr. Edward "Monk" Malloy! 
We look forward to
I,,, 

working with you. 
1. 

God Bless You . 
. 
. 
The Alumni Association and Staff 
t.ll. 

11~1-Lilifl !!UH!.!ijlli®-~~
»G~­


Spend a 

SEMESTER AROUND THE WORLD 
Japan, Hong Kong, China, Nepal, India, Thailand 
16 Semester credits in various subjects Open to all ND-SMC students 
Special Presentation: Sunday, Nov. 16 6-8:00 pm Carroll Hall, Saint Mary's 
Videos, slides and Indian snacks 


Saturday, November 15, 1986-page 6
The Observer 


Congratulations Fr. Edward "Monk" Malloy ~ Call us at 272-7653 Sanitized tanning booths and beds  
Congratulations Fr. Edward "Monk" Malloy COUNTED CROSS-STITCH YARNS &PAnERIIS Call for directions 288-2385 AIEA'StAISEST DISI'LAYOF CIDSUTITCH SA.I'US EWE 8 ME lOW 0,. S.U,a 'til~ 2532 Mlahaweu Ave., Soulh Bend 12 It4. (3 blocks East of Ironwood)  



Monk 
continuedfrom page I 
priests in Holy Cross, we can continue to build on the legacy of these last 35 ve~rs " 
The board's vote confirmed the selection of the 10-member nominating committee, which had met earlier and chose Mal­loy. 
The announcement came during a news conference crowded with reporters, trus­tees and cameras at the Morris Inn. 
Press reports had earlier identified Malloy, who is also an associate professor of theol­ogy, as the candidate who would be nominated and con­firmed. 
As president, Malloy said he will "continue with many of the directions that have already been started. 
"It is clear to me that Notre Dame needs to be a major graduate research institution,'' said Malloy, adding that capa­ble faculty must be attracted to accomplish this. 
Malloy, who holds under­graduate and graduate degrees 
Ideal 
continuedfrompage 12 
power. It is now a recognized leader for reform in college athletics, an ideal for the rest of the country. 
"He's an inspiration to everyone," says Athletic Director Gene Corrigan. "He's always stood for excellence. 
at Notre Dame, said he also wants to continue the "es­tablished legacy of high quality undergraduate education." · 
Added Malloy: "We will, as every major university will, continue to struggle with ac­hieving the proper balance be­tween those two high goals." 
In addition, the president­elect said he wanted to keep the residentiality of Notre Dame by continuing to attract "ded­icated and fine people to our dormitory staffs." 
Malloy, who played varsity basketball for Notre Dame as an undergraduate, said he "would like to see us maintain the standards of the Joyce era­-that competitive, high quality athletic program." 
At the same time, Malloy said he wanted "to maintain our academic and conduct 
standards, something that I think has been the hallmark of Notre Dame up to now. 
"And to make all of this hap­pen we're going to have to raise money," Malloy said, looking out at the trustees in the makeshift press room. "And I hope we can continue to find generous friends who 
He's a great role model for our athletes." 
But now a new player has been given the ball, a former athlete. Should that make a dif­ference to Notre Dame's ath­letics? Corrigan and Valdiserri both say no. Not only has Mal­loy been given a solid univer­sity, but he also has been given a top-notch athletic depart­ment, one with higher ideals than just wins and losses. 

want to be part of this common endeavor." 
Asked whether there would be any co-ed dorms or parietals changes during his administra­tion, Malloy replied, "We will have organic rather than dis­ruptive changes." 
But, he added, "I will not be committed one way or the other." 
Keough, who was the head of the nominating committee, described the method of choos­ing a president as "a long, thoughtful and caring process." 
"The result has made us very happy," he added. 
The selection process be­came necessary when Hes­burgh told the Board of Trus­tees in 1982 that he would retire in five more years. 
Speaking at the news confer­ence, Hesburgh said, "This is a great day of joy for us. 
"You work hard trying to build something and you hope 

the ''GOLDER DOME'' 

in a 5-color limited edition lithograph by 
SCOft L. HENDRIE (see it hanging in the OBSERVER office.) edition: 950 artist proofs: 50 PriCe •3Q.00 POST PAID 
Send check or M.O. to: HENDRIE DESIGN STUDIO 1704 Morton Avenue Elkhart, IN 46516 
IND. Orders Add 6% Tax/Ship 1 Wk. 
that somehow the thrust for­ward will continue and that the University will continue to grow and prosper in as many ways as possible. 
"!think both Ned (Joyce) and I believe the new team going now are going to really bring a new spirit to the place. 
"They're going to bring new ideals and new initatives and that's good. Places need change ... That's what keeps places vital. 
Speaking about his upcoming presidency, Malloy said he believes "in consultation, in a collaborative style, in listen­ing." 
Malloy, who has lived in Sorin Hall for eight years, said he will continue living in the dorm next year. 
"I live with and among the students," he said. "I don't know of a greater group of people than Notre Dame stu­dents." 

Show NO or SMC student or staff ID and get a 10% discount 
18081 State Road 23 Near Ironwood ARMIDA KOBEK South Bend, Indiana 48837 . (2 1 9) 277-2870 

• 

a Notre Dame, Saint Mary's Tradition for over 30 years. 

,.sf.
J\ls1o~f.\ 
~~ 
Congratulations Fr. Edward "Monk" Malloy! 
Delight 
continued from page I 
Dame." Bartell, executive director of the University's Kellogg In­stitute for International Studies, said, "I'm happy for Monk and I know he'll do a tre­mendous job. I know everyone will be behind him." When asked about his imme­diate reaction to the decision, Tyson said, "Relief, quite frankly." McCafferty also said he was relieved. He said he did not foresee any change in his posi­tion as an associate professor of law. "I'm delighted to con­tinue teaching full-time," he added. 
Commenting on Malloy's remarks to the Board of Trus­tees and the press, McCafferty said Malloy "struck all the right chords." 


dEREMIAH SWEENEY 
Daily and Nightly Specials with free munchies 
Monday thru Friday 4:00-7:00 pm 
Monday thru Saturday 
10:00 pm-Close 
Join our "Around the World with 80 Beers"Club 
·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Phone 277-6368 6402 Grape Road Across from University Park Mall on Grape Road 


----~--~-----­
The Schedule ·The Game 

Notre Dame vs. Penn State Notre Dame ( 4-4) 
Saturday, November 15, 1986Time 3:30p.m. EST 

L -MICHIGAN, 24-23 
Notre Dame 5, Penn State 4,

Series L-Michigan St., 20-15 
one tie 

W -PURDUE, 41-9 
L-Alabama, 28-10 L -PITTSBURGH, 10-9
Last 

November 16, 1985 W -AIR FORCE, 31-3 Meeting Penn State 36, Notre Dame 6 W-Navy, 33-14 
W-SMU, 61-29 
Nov. 15-PENN STATE
Rankings Penn State 3rd (AP) 

Notre Dame is unranked Nov. 22-at LSU 
Nov. 29 -at USC 
Tickets Game is sold out 

• 
flS 


Penn state weekend Edition, November 1s, 1986 
The Observer 
Beuerlein wraps up career 
Senior QB reflects on four years at Notre Dame 
the rain, mostly at home, had been played. AndBy DENNIS CORRIGAN 
Sports Editor in many, the Irish had come away winless. The end of last season, he says, was the lowest point An early snow storm has made Steve Beuer­of his career. 
,
lein's room a warm haven. He lives in a corner 

l 
room in Sorin Hall, arguably one of the most "I can't pick out a time or day, but just the 
l 
.,
prestigious and coveted rooms on campus. Out­way the whole thing ended with Coach Faust," side the wind swirls the still light snowfall. In­Beuerlein says. "It was a very rough year for 
l 
side, soft jazz plays in the speakers. A game me personally as well as for the whole team. I 
1 
~
ball from Notre Dame's 31-3 win over Air Force was really just down, and it just seemed like 
l
this season lies next to a chair. the whole world was caving in around us and 
l
around myself. "I'd rather play in the snow than in the rain," 

Beuerlein says. That sounds odd coming from "I just thank God for the friends that I've got 
The ObservellMichael Ury

a native of Fullerton, Calif., until you stop and and made here and the peope that helped me 
consider his career at Notre Dame. through that whole thing and kept me and 
Thelma Covell (left) and Helen Fisher have attended every everyone fighting on. That's the reason why 
Notre Dame home game since 1922. 
Change of scene, November 16, 1985. A charged we're where we're at today. Any normal group Notre Dame team, winners of four straight, of people would have folded a long time ago, 
comes to State College to face No.1 Penn State. but we're still fighting because we know we can 
Not in 64 years 
In the rain, cold and quagmire, the Nittany · still make something out of it." Lions dismantle the Irish, who would go on to lose their final two games of the season and, For much of last season, Beuerlein was in­
S.B. pair a fixture at home games 
ultimately, their coach. volved in a quarterback controversy which stemmed from an injury to his shoulder against 
For most of Beuerlein's career at Notre Dame, USC -the same shoulder that bad been operated 

it has seemed that the rain had been falling on By KATHLEEN McKERNAN 
see BEUERLEIN, page 2 Sports Writer 
him and his teammates. Countless games in In 1921, the Notre Dame football team played in a wooden Cartier Field stadium, and Knute Rockne led the Irish. 

Sixty-four years later, Lou Holtz enters his first year as Irish coach, the 11th after Rockne, and close to 60,000 fans pack Notre Dame Stadium every home football Saturday. 
But according to Helen Fisher and Thelma Covell, South Bend residents who have attended games since the 1921 season, Notre Dame football has not changed all that much. 
"It's still basically the same," Covell says. "There's the new stadium and there have been different coaches, but the atmosphere -the excitement -is the same. 
Helen Fisher brings a consecutive game attendance record of 282 into today's game against Penn State. Thelma Covell missed two games a few years ago because of an illness in her family, but those are the only two games the pair has missed between them since the 1922 season. 
The women come prepared for every game with blankets and cushions for their comfort. Despite the sometimes harsh South Bend weather, the devoted tandem never leave early. 
see FANS, page 2



--------~---------------~-----~ ~--­
-
Penn State (9-0) 

W-TEMPLE, 45-15 W-Boston College, 26-14 W-EAST CAROLINA, 42-17 W -RUTGERS, 31-6 W-CINCINNATI, 23-17 W-SYRACUSE, 42-3 W -Alabama, 23-3 W -West Virginia, 19-0 W-MARYLAND, 17-15 Nov. 15 -at Notre Dame Nov. 22 -PITTSBURGH 

The Stadium 
T\' and Radio 
ABC-TV national broadcast Keith Jackson, Tim Brandt, AI Trautwig 
Notre Dame Mutual Radio Network Tony Roberts and Tom Pagna WNDU-AM 1500 WFVI-AM 640 Frank Mastro, Rudy Brandl, Rick Rietbrock 



Irish Extra, pages 2-3 



Beuerlein 
continuedfrom page 1 
on after his sophomore year. When Terry Andrysiak di­rected the team to a 41-17 win over Navy, the two were shuffled in and out the rest of the way. 
When Lou Holtz signed on, the quarterback question arose al­most immediately but with a new twist. 
"At first I wasn't sure (what to expect)," Beuerlein says, "because everywhere he had gone he had been associated with some sort of the option. It's not going to surprise anybody that I'm really not an option quarterback. I never had been and never will be. I was a little apprehensive at first about the whole situa­tion." 
Holtz put all Beuerlein's fears to rest. Almost from day one, Holtz reiterated that Beuerlien was and would be his starting quarterback. 
"It was very good for me in the spring to hear that," says Beuerlein. "I was coming off a very frustrating year for me personally and it probably was wavering my confidence. I wasn't quite sure if the whole thing was meant to work out for me." 
Still it wasn't enough for the fans or the media. Weekly, Holtz would defend his quarter­back and, at times, chastised the media for its criticism of Beuerlein. 
Steve Beuerlein "All quarterbacks, if they're going to be successful, have to have a lot of confidence in themselves," says Beuerlein. They've got to believe in them­selves and not worry about what other people are saying about them. At times it's hard to do, and I admit that last year, at times, it got to me. I was trying to go out there and make things happen when what I should have been doing was going out there and playing my game and not worrying about what people were saying. I was trying to make the big play all the time." 

Now, after a 1-4 start, the big plays are coming for Beuer­lein. Although Holtz is known for his use of the ground game, Beuerlein has had his best back-to-back performances in some time, throwing for 517 yards (27-for-42 passing) and three touchdowns. Two of his scoring strikes have been to Tim Brown for 77 and 84 yards. He is Notre Dame's career leader in six categories, includ­ing total offense and passing yards. Despite the up-and­down nature of his stay at Notre Dame, Beuerlein wouldn't have had it any other way. 
"I wouldn't trade the Notre Dame experience for anything in the world," he says. "It's been a very special place for me, and the people I've met and the opportunities that it's given me are incomparable. I never could have experienced it anywhere else. 
" Football has been up and down to say the least through­out the four years. If I had to do it all over again, there's no doubt in my mind I'd do it again. There were a lot of good times, a lot of fun times But you've got to learn to take the good with the bad and just keep your head up and keep fighting and become as good as you pos­sibly can be." 
Soon, Notre Dame will be a memory for Beuerlein. The Dome and stadium will have faded into the background. Fall at Notre Dame will be over sooner than expected. 
"It just kind of hit me last week for the first time as we were going into the SMU game," Beuerlein says. "It's so hard to believe because I remember when I was a freshman when they introduced the seniors, Blair Kiel and all those guys. I thought, 'Wow that's a long way, I'll never get there.' All of a sudden it's three days away for me. 
"It's kind of overwhelming and it is sad. It's something I'm not really too excited about from the standpoint of not ever having a chance to play there again. I wouldn't want it in any different situation than it is now (playing Penn State).'' 
Change scene, April27, 1986. A team named Lee's BBQ Roundhouse with a guard named Steve Beuerlein wins the Bookstore Basketball XV tournament. On a bright, sunny day, Beuerlein has found a champiionship at Notre Dame. Although he admits to taking it a little too seriously, Beuerlein truly enjoys playing ("That's the way I have fun." J. For next year, he promises to be back with Bookstore and football teammate Mike Kovaleski and "a secret sub" for Jim Dolan. For Beuerlein, the often em­battled quarterback, it's an­other shot at the sun. 
Fans 
continuedfrom page 1 
These two aren't actual fair­weather fans when it comes to braving the cold, but they are definitely hard on the teams they follow. Through their clerical careers, they met many of the Irish coaches, but personal contacts have not changed their opinions on any of the coaches. 
Covell and Fisher go for the winners, and they admit to having a soft spot for Irish coaching legend Ara Parseg­hian, who posted an .888 win­ning percentage and racked up 56 victories at home in 11 years. 
"When they win, you love them," Fisher says. "When they don't, you just wonder what's the matter with them. Every coach is a little bit dif­ferent. We may have met them, but we care more about win­ning." 
What's the verdict so far on Lou Holtz and his 4-4 mark? 
"I think he's going to be great," Covell says, "at least I hope so.'' 
When Fisher and Covell first bought their season tickets, the price was only $10. Now the price has risen to almost twice that -for a single game at $18. 
The women have gotten their share of publicity for th~ir. streak, which covers 64 years. Recently, the South Bend Tribune featured them, and the story was picked up by national wires. The attention has been pleasant, but somewhat con­fusing, for the pair. 
"We enjoy the games," Fisher says. "We come and will al­ways come because we enjoy them, not to get written up. Lately the players and coaches will come and talk to us. That's nice, but we'd come anyway. 
"It's strange to get attention for this," Covell adds. "I mean, I've gone to Mass every Sunday for more than 64 years and no one gets all excited about that.'' 



John Askin 
· Robert Banks Steve Beuerlein Dave Butler John Carney Hiawatha Fransisco Tom Freeman Tom Galloway John Grieb Mike Griffin Mike Haywood Shawn Heffern Skip Holtz Milt Jackson Alonzo Jefferson Wally Kleine Mike Kovaleski Chris K vochak Chuck Lanza Steve Lawrence Rick Michalak Alvin Miller 

. ~~ 
The Observei'!Michael Ucy 
Tom Monahan Tom Rehder Tom Riley Pete Rokich Dan Sorensen Byron Spruell Dan Tanczos Pernell Taylor Ron Weissenhofer Joel Williams Troy Wilson 


l
Weekend Edition, November 15, 1986 
I 
Corrigan clarifies scheduling remarks 

By DENNIS CORRIGAN Sports Editor 
Notre Dame Athletic Direc­tor Gene Corrigan denied charges that Notre Dame is sof­tening its future football schedule, saying "The thought that we're trying to come up with a creampuff schedule really does blow my mind." 
Corrigan's remarks came at a press conference Friday and were a response to an article in Wednesday's Toledo Blade as well as much-abbreviated articles that had appeared in papers around the country on Thursday. In the Blade article, Corrigan said that Notre Dame was attempting to buy more games to increase Notre Dame's home schedule, not to make it easier by scheduling such opponents as Indiana, Northwestern and Stanford. Corrigan reiterated this point Friday. ''My whole gist of the conversation that I had with John Gugger (author of the original article) was that we needed more home games," Corrigan said. "I can't imagine a school that sells out every game, and has for 27 years since Ara <Parseghian) came, having five home games one year and six the next. Finan­cially, it's a killer for us be­cause we don't get into fund raising and we don't intend to. 
"The money that we make from football and basketball is what runs a 21-sport program 
Lions 
· continuedfrom page 4 
The respect that Holtz pays to the Penn State defense is well deserved. The Lions are ranked third nationally in total defense and fifth in turnover mar­gin with 32 gained and 16 lost. Six-of­nine opponents have been held to less than 100 yard rushing, averaging 51.0 yards per game over the last six con­tests. Until Maryland scored twice in the fourth quarter, Penn State went 16 
Time Capsule · 
at the the University of Notre Dame and the best interhall program anywhere in the world. And in order to sustain that, one of the things that we have to do is buy some home games." 
What Corrigan wants is to play six to seven home games a season to increase revenues. The yearly imbalance between the number of home games is a result of home-and-home se­ries which most major pro­grams insist upon in order to play Notre Dame. By buying home games, Notre Dame gives the opponent a monetary guarantee for playing the game on the road. In turn, Notre Dame is in no way obligated to play a second game at the op­ponent's home. 
In order to this, single games had to be added with teams Corrigan said had asked to play Notre Dame. 
"Indiana's just a one-game series," said Corrigan. "The Northwestern game was one that they came to us a couple of years ago and felt that their program needed a lift like an announcement that we were going to start to play them again. 
"We wanted to play a game in Chicago so we scheduled a game in Soldier field. We think it's a good game for us to open with." 
"We're playing Miami of Ohio, the cradle of coaching," continued Corrigan. It's a won­derful school with great tradi­tion. Their athletic director's getting ready to retire and he and I are friends, He said to me, 'one thing I'd never ask you, and I'd love to have, is a game with Notre Dame.' That was about 2 weeks before they beat LSU, and we decided before they beat LSU that we would give them an opening game in the 90's." 

Corrigan also was quoted as saying that Notre Dame wanted to play more schools that shared Notre Dame's phi­losophy of academics and ath­letics. 
"If you're all aware of the CF A academic awards, there are only three schools that have won it--Duke, Virginia and Notre Dame. Duke and Vir­ginia have talked to us about a one-game set out here." 
Corrigan reaffirmed Notre Dame's commitment to playing intersectional games across the nation but said the Irish would not play everywhere every year. 
"We'd really like to play in every section but . not every year," he said. "It's a good draw for the people that we play there, and that's why we'd like to get into every part of the country. We're trying to get a series going with Boston Col­lege, but that does not mean that we're going to play Boston College every year from now to eternity. We've got a four game set with them in the 90's. 
periods without giving up a TD. 

Penn State has a host of defensive leaders. Outside linebacker Shane Con­lan has 64 tackles while tackle Bob White and outside linebacker Don Graham each have seven sacks. Cor­nerback Duffy Cobb; who saved the Maryland game by breaking up the two-point conversion attempt late in the game, has four interceptions. Penn State has picked off at least one pass in eight of the Lion's nine games, and now has a total of 19 interceptions "(Nose tackle) Mike Russo (23 tackles) 
"We've got a three-game set with BYU. I don't consider them one of the soft teams in the country. We felt that's an area the country we have not been. We're playing Washing­ton, Ohio State and two games 
Future schedules 
1990 

Sept. IS-MICHIGAN Sept. 22-at Michigan State Sept. 29-PURDUE Oct. 6-STANFORD Oct. 13-AIR FORCE Oct. 20-MIAMI Oct. 27-at Pittsburgh Nov. 3-at Navy Nov. 10-at Tennessee Nov. 17-PENN STATE Dec. 1-at USC 
1991 

Sept. 7-INDIANA Sept. 14-at Michigan Sept. 21-MICillGAN STATE 
Sept. 28-at Purdue Oct. 5-at Stanford Oct. 12-PITISBURGH Oct. 19-at Air Force Oct. 26-USC Nov. 2-NAVY 
.Nov. 9-TENNESSEE Nov. 16-at Penn State Nov. 30-at Hawaii 
1989 
Sept. 16-at Michigan 
Sept. 23-:-MICillGAN STATE 
Sept. 30-at Purdue 
Oct. 7-at Stanford 
Oct. 14-at Air furce 
Oct. 21-USC 
Oct. 28-PITISBURGH 
Nov. 4-NAVY Nov.ll-SMU Nov. 18-at Penn State Nov. 25-at Miami 
1992 
Sept. 5-at Northwestern · (Soldier Field) Sept. 12-MICillGAN 
Sept. 19-at Michigan State 
Sept. 26-PURDUE 
Oct. 3-STANFORD 
Oct. 10-at Pittsburgh 
Oct. 17-ARMY 
Oct. 31-at Navy 
Nov. 7-BOSTON COLLEGE 
Nov. 14-PENN STATE 
Nov. 28-at USC 
is extemely strong," says Holtz. "(Inside linebacker) Trey Bauer (53 tackles) is very quick. But it is not in­dividual play. We don't have everybody in synche (on defense) while they all compliment each other. 
"They absolutely control the line of scrimmage. We won't have a chance without outstanding defense because you just won't score 30 points against Penn State." 
According to Holtz, using new offensive sets and trick plays will not work. 


Lions hold off Irish, 21-17 
ND's last ditch effort intercepted 
By MARTY STRASEN Assistant Sports Editor 
Late in the fourth quarter, everything Notre Dame had built up against 13th-ranked Penn State turned to dust. 
Blair Kiel had led the Irish in an impressive comeback in that 1981 contest, and all they had to do was put together one more sustained drive to run out the clock and pick up their fourth consecutive victory of the season. But against the Nittany Lions, a 21-17lead could not have looked slim­mer. 
In Penn State territory, Kiel, who had thrown a pair of touchdown passes earlier in the game to erase a 10-point defecit and give Notre Dame the edge, dropped back and tossed the ball in the direction of Phil Carter. Penn State played the play perfectly, however, as the defensive linemen dropped back to cover for the blitzing linebackers, and third-string tackle Greg Gattuso came up with the interception. 
It was then time for another sophomore quarterback to turn the game's indecisive tide around for the last time. Lions' signal-caller Todd Blackledge, booed by the capacity crowd of 84,175 earlier in the contest for his less­than-impressive performance, marched his Fiesta Bowl-bound team 82 yards for the winning touchdown. 
Blackledge capped the drive with a one-yard keeper off the option, but it was the work of reserve tailback Jon Williams that sparked the move downfield. Williams, sub­bing for an injured Curt Warner, found holes in the Irish defense when Penn Stat~e needed yardage, and popped through the line three straight times for 46 yards on the winning drive. Williams finished the game with 192 total yards, the most gained by any back against the Irish that year. 
The Lions came roaring out of the gate to open the game, building up a 14-3lead on Williams and Blackledge runs, and added a field goal early in second quarter to go on top, 17-3. 
A Penn State fumble late in the half set up a Kiel-to-Hunter 17-yard score to pull the Irish to within a touchdown, and an interception by linebacker Bob Crable led to Notre Dame's go-ahead score early in the third frame -a four­yard Kiel hook-up to John Sweeney. 
Those were not enough to save the visiting Irish against highly-touted Penn State in 1981, however. The Lions had been looming in the shadows, waiting for the right time to pounce. And when the scent of Kiel's interception hit their noses, Gerry Faust's Irish fell like helpless prey. 
with Texas." 
Any changes that would be made in Notre Dame's schedule wouldn't take effect until after 1992, which is as far as Notre Dame's schedule is planned. 
"Whatever you show them they have seen before, they have a complete de­fensive package. Paterno does a great job blending the defense with the of­fense (because) he wishes to control the ball." 
The veteran senior Penn State defense will run up against an Irish offense and quarterback is rolling up points lately. 
In the recent victories, Notre Dame has been led by Beuerlein (102-of-175, 7 TDs, 5 interceptions) who established a career best for passing yardage with 269 against SMU and now has not thrown an interception in the last three games. He leads an offense that has only been outgained in total yards and first downs by one team, Pittsburgh, all season long. 
Notre Dame will send tailback Anthony Johnson (58-for-278, 5 TDs), fullback Pernell Taylor (60-for-264, 5 TDs), tail­back Mark Green (64-for-248, 2 TDs) and flanker Tim Brown (45-for-217, 2 TDs) against Penn State after gaining 322 yards against SMU. 
While Brown has stolen the show, split end Milt Jackson (19-for-238) and tight end Joel Williams (9-for-107, 3 TDs) both have impressed Holtz with their play away from the ball. 
Brown ranks second on the NCAA all­purpose yardage chart, averaging 14.9 yards everytime he touches the ball, and netting 173.6 yards per game for the All-America candidate. 
On special teams, Notre Dame punter Dan Sorensen averages 39.2 yards and placekicker John Carney is 14-20 on FGs, leading the team in points with 
63. Lion's punter John Bruno averages 
41.6 yards while placekicker Manca has 37 FGs and 63 points. The Irish plan to counter the ferocious Penn State kick­off coverage by using Skip Holtz to neu­tralize the Lions kicker downfield. 


Irish Extra 4 Weekend Edition, November 15, 
vs. 


By MIKE SZYMANSKI Sports Writer 
Why does the Notre Dame football team want to beat Penn State so badly Sat­urday? 
Perhaps it is because the Nittany Lions are undefeated and are trying to im­prove their national ranking (third) and chance for a bowl game for the National Championship. 
Or it could be that Penn State thrashed the Irish last season 36-6 in the rain on national television. In that game, Mas­simo Manca kicked five field goals and Steve Beuerlein threw three intercep­tions. The Irish also lost two fumbles and had a punt blocked. 
Mabye it has something to do with the fact that Notre Dame has not beaten a top-ranked team all season, going 0-2 against second-ranked teams Michigan and Alabama. Whatever the reason, the Irish cannot afford the mistakes that cost them those games if they expect to be 5-4. 
"If our football team does not turn the football over," says Head Coach Lou Holtz, "and we play a sound kicking game, and all of our people play each and every play without an error, we can play with Penn State. But that's a lot of ifs. 
"Penn State is almost two turnovers a game in the plus. They punch at the ball and they are quick with good hands. Penn State's stats tell the story." 

I And what an ugly story it is for the I Irish. The Nittany Lions average 29.8 I points and 412.5 yards (251.8 rushing,I 160.7 passing) per game while surren­
I I dering 10.0 points and 275.3 yards (64.1 rushing, 211.3 passing) per game. "This is as good a football team as we've played all year," said Holtz. "They are the quickest team we ha\-e played, they're sound fundamentally and they do what it takes to win. They start something like 18 seniors and these are kids that already have the experience of playing for the national championship last year." 
Penn State's offense vs. Notre Dame's defense 
Penn State's dominating ball control rushing game will collide with Notre Dame's defensive strength, permitting no team more than 186 yards, and the one left standing should win the game. Penn State will bring D.J. Dozier (141 for 657, 9 TDs) along with a pair of tough fullbacks, Tim Manoa and Steve Smith, to bear on the Irish. 
"Shaffer isn't a spectacular quarter­back," said Holtz, "but he never seems to make a bad play and he's a winner." 
As of late the Nittany Lions have had trouble putting the ball in the end zone after working it down the field. In the last two weeks, they have scored only three TD's after gaining 772 yards and rolling up 47 first downs. 
"You've got to give Maryland credit," 

Penn State tailback D.J. Dozier 
"Dozier is at his best in big games," said Holtz. "Smith and Manoa are hard running fullbacks and great blockers. The offensive line is excellent." 
Penn State makes very few mistakes which is most evident in its effective passer John Shaffer (99 of 172 for 1296, 8 TDs, 4 interceptions). On the receiv­ing end, Dozier, tight end Brian Silverl­ing (17 for 233) and flanker Eric Hamil­ton (15 for 267, 3 TDs) will have the ailing Irish secondary running every which way. 
Photo courtesy Penn State Sports Information Dept. 
said Head Coach Joe Paterno after nar­rowly beating the Terps 17-15 on a blocked conversion pass last week. "We missed too many scoring opportunities, particularly early in the game. We've got to be a little less cavalier and get in there early. We've got to get the killer instinct and until we do that, we'll find ourselves in some tough games." 
And the Notre Dame defense strengthens at the goal line. Penn State has 24 touchdowns on the ground while the Irish have given up only eight rush­ing TDs in eight games. But, deteruiive end Wally Kleine (6-9, 274), the of the left side, will miss the cause of a shoulder injury. eff (6-6, 252), who filled in against SMU, will start. 
On the other side, Robert Banks (6-5, 
250) has terrorized the enemy all season, totaling 37 tackles behind linebacker Mike Kovaleski and Kleine. Kovaleski, the leader at 57, will return following a slight concussion against SMU. 
Linebacker Cedric Figaro (6-3, 232), who established a single-season team record for fumble recoveries at seven, has come up with the big play on defense all season. He has 36 tackles this season. 
Shaffer will test a Notre Dame second­ary that has been severely hampered by key injuries to Mike Haywood and Brandy Wells. Free safety Steve Lawrence "has had a couple of fine games in a row," ac­cording to Holtz. Senior cornerback Marv Spence has teamed up with Lawrence to give the backfield some stability. In a suprise move, tailback Mark Green, who excelled at defensive back DB in high school, has seen some work at that position in practice this week. 
If the Irish hope to stop the Lions, it will be through turnovers. Notre Dame caused four turnovers against SMU, its best effort in that category in '86, and intercepted two passes. In the first five games of the season Notre Dame went 1-4 turning over the ball 14 times and capturing 10 opponent turnovers. In the last three games, Notre Dame is 3-0, losing the ball two times and recovering it eight times. 
Penn State's defense vs. Notre Dame's offense 

"When you get the football, Penn State really goes on offense," says Holtz. "They rul) 34 different defenses, where you might have seen two or three a couple of years ago. They are very com­plex. Their defense is really outstand­ing, unbelievable." 
see LIONS, page 3 


Each week, the Observer sports staff, a random student 

PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 
picked by the sports editor and 

The person must pick the win­Asst. Sports Editor Asst. Sports Editor SMC Sports Editor Sports Writer Sports Editor Guest Celebrity Random Student 
ner and give the underdog 63-47-2 54-56-2 51-59-2 51-59-2 43-67-2 48-62-2 53-57-2 
.491 .464 .464 .390 .436 .482
points. Home team is in CAPS. .573 

(last week : 8-6-0) (last week: 6-8-0) (last week: 6-8-0) (last week : 5-9-0) (last week : 5-9-0) (last week: 7-7-0)(last week: 7-7-0) 
MIAMI (FLA.) over Tulsa by 35 Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Tulsa Hurricanes MICHIGAN over Minnesota by 25 Wolverines Golden Gophers Golden Gophers Wolverines Wolverines Golden Gophers Wolverines 
Oklahoma over COLORADO BY 23 Buffaloes Sooners Buffaloes Buffaloes Buffaloes Buffaloes Sooners 
Nebraska over KANSAS by 33.5 Cornhuskers Jayhawks Cornhuskers Jayhawks Cornhuskers Cornhuskers Jayhawks Texas A&M over ARKANSAS by 4 Aggies Razor backs Aggies Razor backs Aggies Aggies Razor backs AUBURN over Georgia by 10.5 Tigers Tigers Ti8ers Bulldogs Tigers Bulldogs Tigers Ohio St. over WISCONSIN by 20 Buckeyes Buckeyes Ba gers Badgers Badgers Buckeyes Buckeyes WASHINGTON over Ucla by 2.5 Bruins Bruins Huskies Huskies Huskies Huskies Huskies 
Louisiana St. over MISS. STATE BY 9 Bulldogs Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers SOUTHERN CAL over California by 27.5 Trojans Golden Bears Golden Bears Trojans Golden Bears Trojans Golden Bears Clemson over MARYLAND by 5 Terrapins Terrapins Tigers Tigers Tigers Terrapins Terrapins Baylor over RICE by 25 Owls Bears Bears Bears Bears Bears Bears 
N.C. ST.t\TE over Duke by 9.5 Blue Devils Wolfpack Wolfpack Wolfpack Wolfpack Blue Devils Wolfpack Penn State over NOTRE DAME by 6 Irish Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Irish Irish Irish Irish 
-
"ie~~_O_i_nt______________
satu-rday-,Nov-emb-er15_,198-6-pa-ge7 


Malloy will build on Hesburgh's foundation 
The Notre Dame Board of Trustees has just made what is possibly 
the most important decision in its existence. For the past 35 years, 
Notre Dame has been guided by the hand and vision of a single 
man, Father Theodore Hesburgh. 
On May 17, 1987, all of that will change; Father Edward "Monk" 
Malloy will become the next president of the University of Notre 
Dame. 
The profound signifigance of this change may not be realized as 
of yet by many members of the Notre Dame family. More than an 
entire generation of students has passed through this academic in­
stitution, influenced by Hesburgh. Three-fourths of all living Notre 
Dame alumni have Hesburgh's signature on their diplomas. Thirty­
five years worth of Notre Dame graduates have gone on to influence 
this country in business, science, religion, government, the clergy 
and the armed forces-all a product of Hesburgh's Notre Dame. 
Through good times and bad, Hesburgh has been a stabilizing 
force, a solid Catholic founder and father, for an institution that is 
in constant change. He has built a university on a Catholic ideal 
that has produced sports powerhouses and Nobel Prize winners. His 
years, however they may be perceived, are almost over. 
Now, because the imminent changing of the guard finally has 
been announced, the Notre Dame family can look forward to new 
leadership, new direction. Malloy, chosen out of a qualified field of 
administrators, will take the helm of the University to influence its 
next generation of students. 
At the end of this academic year, Malloy will inherit a university 
on the move, with a growing endowment and an ever-improving 
campus. The challenges before Malloy differ vastly from those Res­
burgh faced. Notre Dame needs a president who, upon taking charge 
of this University, will build upon the success of the past 35 years. 
Malloy appears to fit that need correctly. A devoted theologian, 
a successful assistant provost and a popular resident hall member, 
Malloy is truly devoted to Notre Dame. He has been described as 
resolute and unflappable. Father "Monk" Malloy fits well into an 
overwhelmingly successful future for this University. 
The decision has been a long time in coming. The Board of Trustees 
nominating committee has had to make some tough decisions. Five 
outstanding candidates were considered for the position of the next 
president of the University of Notre Dame. 
The choice has been made. Father Edward "Monk" Malloy will 
step forward and lead this university and its devoted family to a 
future of greatness. 
-The Observer 
Many challenges issued in Monk's open room 
Every night as I walk across the "God Quad" on my way home I'm greeted by the familiar face of Sorin Hall. The porch light is always lit, and the front windows tell the tale of all my friends who are a little behind in their classes. 
Shawn Sexton 
hail to the chief 
Sometimes when it's really late, the hall is dark except for one light shining out of the right front turret. 
As I climb the stairs and pass the lighted room, I always check for a sign on the door that says "WELCOME." I know Monk Malloy is home. 
Many times I've stopped in this room to pose a question, to ask for advice or to say hello. Monk's door always has been open to me, as it has been to anyone wishing to knock on it. 
I remember one time· when I was a freshman I dropped by Monk's room and stayed for several hours. Students streamed in and out all night. I was amazed by the wide array of topics they came to talk about, and by the sensi­tivity shown by Monk to various stu­dents' problems and questions. 
A great number of these students ex­pected Monk to make a decision for them. To those people, he always posed more questions. No one left that room without having a question asked of him that he could answer immediately. Each left thinking. 
Monk consistently asks the questions that people need to ask themselves. Rarely will he answer a question a per­son should answer for himself. Monk constantly is trying to help those who come to him make responsible deci­sions on values, attitudes and issues which confront all of us in our daily lives. 
I always have felt a challenge enter­ing that room, a challenge to evaluate myself and the world around me in or­der to improve and gain perspective. 

-
Monk issues that challenge on every visit. 
Now that Monk Malloy has been elected president of the University I know he will be posing questions to the entire Notre Dame family, giving the University a challenge to answer the questions it must ask of itself in the coming years. I'm certain Monk Malloy carries with him to the presidency the same sincerity and concern he has shown to all of us who have been for­tunate enough to enter his room and feel his presence. 
Congratulations Monk on a position well deserved. Every night as I walk across the "God Quad" next year I'm sure I'll see the familiar face of the Administration Building with its front turret lit up, and I'm sure if I go inside and look on your office door I will find a sign that says "WELCOME." 
Shawn Sexton is a junior, resident of Sorin Hall and systems manager ofThe Observer. 

Quote of the day 
"The first step in effecting a better and more just society is the effort to become individuals of integrity in our lives...the projects we undertake are the substance of whom we are manifested in the world." 
Edward A. Malloy "Homosexuality and the Christian Way ofLife" 1981 
Caring and listening are Monk's trademarks 

He was heard to say ... 
"Now, I'm only going to say this once. When I was in third grade there was a boy we called 'Bunk.' Of course, he didn't like it. So he searched for names that he could use on us. In my case it was 'Monk.' I don't know if it was the alliteration he liked or just the fact that it rhymed with 'Bunk,' but it stuck. You can call me whatever you like, but everyone else calls me Monk." 
Ken Dice 
guest column 

First impressions are everything. And as I and 40 other freshmen sat in Sorin's chapel listening to the rector, assistant rector, and four R.A.s, we couldn't help but wonder who was the man that had not spoken yet. We all laughed when the tall, lanky priest in­sisted we call him "Monk," but, four years later, that is the only thing I re­member from that hall orientation meeting. First impressions might not last forever, but this one has lasted four years and is still going strong. 
Perhaps the best thing you can do when you talk with Monk is listen. He has a lot to say. Actually, he has a lot he could say. Monk is not the "host with the most" who talks incessantly about anything and everything. He is not a stand-up comic with a routine for every situation. In fact, Monk usually only talks when asked to or when impending doom will be the result of his silence. But when he does, you can feel the knowledge, experience, and sincerity in the room. 
You won't be alone in feeling this "Monkness"; thousands of others have already. Students who take his class listen because he is learned in theology. People around the country listen be­cause he is learned in many areas. "Dear Abby" listens because he is learned in morality and current prob­lems. Learned people listen because learned people like to listen to other learned people. Everyone in Sorin lis­tens because he lives in Sorin. Students all over the campus come to talk and listen to Monk because they know he listens. The list becomes longer with each passing day. But why? 
Monk has the rare and paradoxic quality of being open-minded and opinionated. He gives every idea a chance whether it comes from a respected author or a freshman in his . theology class. Every influential work, and the majority of the not-so­influential ones, has been read along with the papers of thousands of students covering every topic imaginable. But even with this great influx of ideas and opinions Monk has not fallen into the trap of indecisiveness. His beliefs are firm and his opi1,1ions are strong. These beliefs and opinions never dominate, they merely guide his words of advice and counsel. 
Any one of us could buy a set of en­cyclopedias if we wanted the facts and answers to every possible question. Books, records, video tapes full of ad­vice and soothing words abound in today's fast-paced world. But none of these can take the place of Monk. Monk is more than a pillar of knowledge, for a pillar of knowledge would be unap­proachable. You wouldn't ask Einstein to help you with a physics problem and you wouldn't think of asking e. e. cum­mings to diagram a sentence. But if your roommate had a special talent you wouldn't think twice about asking him for help in that area. So grab your room­mate and fill his head with the great minds of today's academe. That's Monk Malloy. After hearing some view­points you were interested in for a 
paper, you can talk with him about your date to the SYR. After hearing which courses he thinks are harder than others, you can argue with him about the line on this week's college games. To top it all off, he could play a little basketball with you and leave you won­dering why you lost 21-0. It really doesn't matter if this particular room­mate looks 45 years old! 
There is only one thing easier to do than listen to Monk: let him listen to you. It is not part of his job. It is not an obligation of his vocation. It is the result of a deep-rooted concern for people: students, faculty, families, even strangers. What more could we or the future students of Notre Dame want in a president? Can anything upstage caring? 
Many people have looked to and learned a lot from Fr. Edward Malloy. Now, his wisdom and experience will no longer be confined to the classroom or private conversation. The entire uni­versity looks to him. The entire world will hear of Monk Malloy. 
Any day now, we shall all hear: "Now, I'm only going to say this once. When I was in third grade ... " 
Ken Dice is a senior resident assis­tant at Sorin Hall. 


Saturday, November 15, 1986-page 9 


in ND history 
,,' 




~ ~ ---­
Accent 

Saturday, November 15, 1986-page 10 
Christian ethics: 
Malloy's books explore the issues of homosexuality and 

criminal punishment 
MARY JACOBY features editor 
Father Edward Malloy is the au­thor of two books in his field of Christian ethics which address contemporary social issues. "Homosexuality and the Chris­tian Way of Life" was published in 1981, and "The Ethics of Law Enforcement and Criminal Punishment" appeared the fol­lowing year in 1982. Both books are published by University Press of America. 
In the preface to "Homosexuality and the Chris­tian Way of Life," Malloy says that the book was written in response to the controversy between homosexuals and heterosexuals which has spread from the gen­eral society into the Christian churches. The debate is weighted on one side by gays wishing to "come out of the closet" and on the other side by people who defend the tradi­tional ethic exemplified by the monogamous family unit. At the theological level, Malloy says, recent studies have disputed the traditional ban of all overt homosexual behavior; and homosexual Christians at the pastoral level have been striving for complete inclusion within the Church. 
Malloy offers his belief that dis­cussions of controversial moral issues pass through three stages: an initial challenge to the inherited tradition, a response from the defenders of the tradi­tion, and finally a development of a new consensus. He sees the discussion of the homosexuality issue as in the second stage and has written this book to counter the revisionist arguments. 
The book has two major divi­sions. The first is a treatment of 'the Homosexual Way of Life' as the issue ig raised in social and scientific literature on the sub­ject. Secondly, Malloy explores the Christian community's ethi­cal discussions ofhomosexuality as well as three main approaches to the issue in current Christian discussion in order to develop "an interpretation of 'the Chris­tian Way of Life' ... as a criterion for judging the ethical status of the Homosexual Way of Life." 
Lastly, Malloy explores several pastoral and ecclesiastical issues concerning homosexuality and offers his own opinion as to what the proper Christian approach should be. 

I 
Although Malloy writes that he feels a Christian lifestyle ul­timately cannot be reconciled to 
a homosexual one, he argues for 

I 
the basic civil rights of 
homosexuals. He says that legal 
reform is possible without soci­love. "Ideally, the love of sexual passion and the love of per­manent and exclusive commit­ment can cohere in a relation­ship," Malloy states. The non-procreative aspect of homosexual relationships pro­vides no opportunity "for the growth of a love which carries the partners beyond the original focus in each other to the wider dimensions ofjoyful and serious 

"In his second book ... Malloy explores the contra­diction between the horrors of violence and the seeming con­tradiction of using violence to prevent greater harm in society." 
service of a broader communi­ty." 
Finally, Malloy says it is not clear how a homosexual way of life, with no form of binding com­mitment like marriage in either on the issues of permanence and exclusivity. He says a fundamen­tal problem in reconciling the two ways of life lies in doubts that "whether exclusivity for a lifetime is ever considered desirable am:Yor possible by homosexuals who enter such relationships." 
In his second book on Chris­tian ethics Malloy explores the contradiction between the hor­rors of violence and the seeming contradiction of using violence to prevent greater harm in soci­ety. "The Ethics of Law Enforce­ment and Criminal Punishment" focuses on the two aspects of the phenomenon named in its title. Malloy discusses the demands placed on police officers by their occupation and assesses the amount of corruption within the system while offering possible solutions. 
The last two chapters of the book deal with both the criminal himself and how the death penalty, even under extreme cases, is not needed for society's protection. 
Malloy argues for an increased professionalization of the police force mainly because of the "high degree of discretionary au­
In regards to sexual matters, Malloy cites the virtues of chas­tity, love and faithfulness as gathered from a thematic reading of the Scriptures to sity and thus depersonalization. 
The second virtue Malloy dis­cusses in defining a Christian view of sexuality is love. Malloy writes that love must not neces-

THE ETHICS OF LAW ENFORCEMENT AND CRIMINAL PUNISHMENT 
Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. 
Department ofTheology University of Notre Dame 

civil society or the Church, can thority" accorded to individual
.-------------...1•-------------,police officers. In additon to im­
HOMOSEXOALITY 
UNIVERSITY 
AND THE 
PRESS Of 44 
MERI( 
CHRISTIAN

...__~_LA.'IIH-A.\I•SE-WYORK----t•LOS~ WAy OF LIFE 
define his conception of 'the Christian Way of Life.' Chastity is not defined as vir­ginity but rather as "that virtue 
Edward A. Malloy 
which enables all people (of whatever sexual orientation, in whatever state in life) to acheive integrity of relatedness (to self, 
"... the book was 
.written in response to the controversy between homo­sexuals.and hetero­sexuals which has spread from the gen­eral society into the Christian churches." 
UNIVERSITY PRESS Of
to other and to God)." Malloy 
AMERICA
does not dispute that an individ­ual homosexual can also be chaste. However, he states his doubts that sexual relationships 
le1LAI'IHAM • l'tEW YORK • ~ 

provements in pay, training, recruitment and command struc­ture among other suggestions, Malloy writes that the develop­ment of a professional ethic is needed that would support practical principles by a gener­ally approved value system. 
In the second chapter Malloy explores the issue of police cor­ruption not because they are worse than any other group but rather because of the policeman's critical role in the protection of society. Many of the measures he proposes for professionalization are also his suggested remedies for the en­ding of corruption. 
The third chapter argues that the ethical aspects of prison sen­tences should be seen as related to their ability to isolate danger­ous individuals from society. Malloy explores the retributative, deterrent and rehabilitative rationales for criminal punish­ment concluding that "the level of harm threatened to the com­mon good by the continued freedom of the evildoer must be the primary rationale for invok­ing (the penalty ofpunishment)." 
Finally, Malloy argues that only by benefitting the "common good" of the society could the state be morally justified in ex­ercising capitol punishment and then the death penalty would have to be imposed without dis­crimination. At the present Mal­

r 
ety violating the traditional Judaeo-Christian sexual ethic which includes heterosexual marriage and, by natural exten­sion, procreation. 
involving many different partners-as he has found typical in his studies of homosexual lifestyles -can promote chastity by the very nature of their diver­
sarily be connected with sexuality; but for sexuality to be "authentically realized," he argues that sex must involve 

integrate a fundamental faithful­ness into itself. In his research Malloy displays that there is no agreement among homosexuals loy says no conditions warrant invoking the death penalty in America and the greater good would be advanced by eliminat­ing such laws from the books. 

':11:'~4tJilttJL~--------------------------------------------------------•S•at.u.rd•a•y•,•N•ov.e.m•b•e•r•1•5,•1•98•6•-•p•a•g•e•1.. 

Congratulations Monk! 
-your friends from Sorin 
5/fr/ fi/HY /lON7
Y(}() c-er INTO CAK!lJONIN& :? 
Y~IIH / 7111fT'5 
111£: 17CI<ET / 
\ 
I'VE A/.!30 WRITTEN A PR05£ POEM I'O UK& YOU 7lJ HEAR. I WANTEP TO REAIJ IT 70 !3VERYONE, BUT THt MIN15TER KEPT /..OO!<ING ATHIS "-.. 
WATCH. 

Campus 
SATURDAY 
9: 30 a.m. : Alcoholics Anonymous closed meeting, multi-purpose room, Center for Social Concerns 
10:00 a.m.-3:00 p.m.: Shenanigans food booth, North Quad 12:00-3:00 p.m.: Hospitality Center, ACC North Dome, refreshments, entertain­ment, films, information, cofee compli­ments of Alumni Association 
12:30 p.m.: Shenanigans, ACC North Dome 
1:30 p.m.: Pep Rally, in front of Hammes Bookstore, sponsored by Dancin' Irish and the Irish cheerleaders 
2: 00 p.m. : Band concert, Administration Building steps 3:30p.m.: Football, ND vs. Penn State Post-game: Hospitality Center, ACC North Dome. 30 min post-game: Mass, Keenann­Standford Chapel 
10:00 p.m.-2:00 a.m.: Benefit dance for Black Cultural Arts Festival, $1, Lewis party room SUNDAY 
2: 00-4:00 p.m. : Opening Art Exhibition 19th Century European Prints, Print, Drawing, and Photography Gallery 


Notre Dame and Saint Mary's newspaper Be a part of it. 
Berke Breathed 
Garry Trudeau 
REAIJY? OkAY, HeRE 60E5. "A 
•THEENP.

TWIG, 8I3NTLOlA/. MOTION/$5, A 
THANK {f)PYRJGHT 1986.

01/CKAt:JEE 5TARE5 [)()WN AT7H& 
YOU, !JtAR,. Jl3R&MY CAV.eN­
{)!OtRJL..caJNTCNANCE. THI5 
7HAT'5 VERY... /JISH. A/..L RIGHTS

5WMPI3/J F/GtJRt. 7HISMAN. 7H15 
tJH... Rt~"
RIOIARP. HE GAVE A 
"
\ 

4:00 p.m.: Music Dept. Concert, ND Chamber Orchestra Fall Concert, admis­sion free, Washington Hall 
6:30 p.m.: CILA General Meeting, "Present & Future Plans," CSC 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 

Cream of Potato Soup Steam Ship Round of Beef Oven-fried Chicken Baked Turbo with Lobster Sauce Duchess Potatoes Harvest Vegetable Bowl Dessert 
Saint Mary's 
Pork Chops Jumbo Burger Miller Steak Chicken Breast Cheese Enchilada 



"And here we are last summer going south . ... Wait a minute, Irene! We went north last summer! The stupid slide's in backward!" 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Attempt 5 Dispatch 9Taj­
14 Whetstone 15 Waiter's need 16 Cruise isle 17 Imitates 18 Weather 
forecast 19 Croissants 20 Lone Ranger's 
cry 23 Organization 24 Birthright 
seller 25 Morning 
moisture 27 Brainstorms 31 "Ad-per 
aspera" 35 Painter Frans 38 Helen's home 40 Host Raymond 
admitted 
listeners here 43 Semester unit 44 Step -1 45 Novelist John 46 Concerning 48 Ruler: abbr. 50 Numerical 
prefix 53 Manicure items 
57 Line for Lamont 
Cranston 62 Averse 63 Musical 
subject 64 Rose's love 65 Salt water 66 Winglike 67 Zola heroine 68 Violin for 
short 69 Tear apart 70 Units of work 
DOWN 1 Iranian title 2 Pith hats 3 Keep-on 
(watch) 4 Intoxicate 5 Chevron 6 Of an age 


<>1986 Tribune Media Services. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 7 Innocent 8 Units of 
P R A M B A N G P L A T 
force 
R A M I 

D 0 N0 R L 0 D I 9 Plunder 
0 
R E S 
A R E N A A M I D 

10 Lined up 11 Island dance 12 In a fit way 
T A MIA L E 
W A S H E 0 U P 

13-Cruces 
A B UIS TAB 0 o•A N A 

21 Afr. region 22 Mrs. Gorbachev 
PATH IT
ESE.DELED MATTE

26 Reporter's 
R E DIR 0 V E R T 0 SIS E R 

question 28 Work with acid 
-ED E SHAH­
29 Gr. city 
WAsH N E s I',,,f 

I L I A G E T 0 N 0 L L A 31 Court figure: 
30 Acerbic 

T A N S E L A T E W0 E S abbr. 
H I G H D Y N E N E A T 

32 Mets' home 33 Sea bird 34 Frost 49 Toward a 56 Kind of music 36 Onassis point ahead 57 Legal wrong 37 WWII craft 51 Turkic 58 Mane stuff 39 Soprano Sumac language 59 Lab burner 41 Depression 52 Fred's sister 60 Arabian 42 Actress Kim 54 Vacuous sultanate 47 Raided the 55 Rounded in 61 The seven-
icebox a way 62 Weights: abbr. 
s orts 
Hesburgh included athletics in ideals

t 
Father Edward "Monk" So the torch has passed, an era has ended. Yesterday, 
Malloy, Notre Dame's next the Board of Trustees named Father Edward "Monk" 
president, is known as an avid Malloy the successor to Father Theodore Hesburgh. An 
basketball player. In his years Irish hoopster now sits on Notre Dame's highest bench. 
on the varsity, Malloy saw ac­Forget about his being a leading theologian. A lot of people 
tion in 18 games and scored 25 know Malloy for his basketball, whether it be his brief 
points. varsity stint or his play in the Bookstore Basketball Tourn­ament. 
"(My career) was unspec­


tacular. I put .in what they 
asked me to do. I was never a
Dennis 
star, but I was allowed to play some."
Corrigan 
Sports Editor 
"It's kind of neat to think 
you're out there elbowing 
Because of his basketball renown, some are wondering how much of an impact Malloy will have on Notre Dame's 
the guy who's the next 
athletic department. Lately, you see, stories have ap­
president of Notre Dame." 
peared in print suggesting that Father Hesburgh has de­emphasized Notre Dame sports or, worse, didn't care about them. 

Since then, he has partici­One story bandied about is that Hesburgh has put too 
pated in almost every much emphasis on academics. So much so that Notre 
Bookstore Basketball Tourna­Dame will go the way of the Ivy League. No kidding, this 
ment and sponsored Monk story comes from the mouths of several alums. 
Hoops Night at Sorin Hall. These accusations, insinuations, call them what you will, 
"It's kind of neat to think are, to say the least, without foundation. Notre Dame ath­
you're out there elbowing the letiCs has flourished under Hesburgh's tenure. Notre Dame 
guy who's the next president of has grown from a football powerhouse to having nationally 
Notre Dame," says Notre acknowledged teams in basketball, fencing and now vol­Dame quarterback Steve leyball. Women's sports have blossomed in Hesburgh's 35 Beuerlein, a resident of Sorin years. who also has a sideline in bas­
More importantly, this growth has come about in com­ketball. plete accord with Hesburgh's philosophy on academics­But while Malloy's varsity they come first. At Notre Dame, the term "student ath­career might not have been the lete" really means something. At other institutions, this most distinguished, his regular notion is given lip service at best. But if an Irish athlete participation in the Bookstore has a test or lab, sorry, coach. Academic standards are tourney and in Monk Hoops adhered to here like nowhere else save a handful of schools. Night shows that his love for Ask any athlete why he or she came to Notre Dame and the game most certainly has after any personal reasons, the words "for the education" not been extinguished. 

Tht· Observer Mikt' Moran
invariably are spoken. 
"He epitomizes the philosophy on athletics," says As­sociate Athletic Director Roger Valdiserri. "He has per­mitted them to be as good as they can be without breaking the rules-the Notre Dame rules. I don't think he would settle for anything less." 
Perhaps Hesburgh has been misunderstood. He turned the day-to-day supervision of athletics over to the Execu­tive Vice President, Father Edmund Joyce. 
"But don't let that fool you," says Valdiserri. "He knows what's going on everywhere. He can talk a good football or basketball game. The guy is brilliant. He knows what's going on." 
So Hesburgh does not roam the sidelines. But is the role of a university president to be the head cheerleader? That is the kind of thinking that leads to rules infractions and blatant violations. 
The win-at-all-costs mentality does not exist under the Dome. In Hesburgh's 35 years, Notre Dame's football pro­gram has never been tainted with scandal while winning three National Championships and finishing in the top 10 on 14 more occasions. Not bad for a school whose president supposedly shows disinterest in athletics. 
Notre Dame has risen from a football factory to a school with an equal blend of academic and athletic excellence. This university is now more than just a leading football 
see IDEAL, page 6 

-Quoted on National Television -Read daily by over 12,000 people -Cited by sports columnists across America 
U ever there was a year to subscribe, this is the year-Father Heabargh'slast, Loa Holtz's first and The Observer's 20th. 
I 
send to:

I Name --------------------------------­
.Enclosed Is The Observer 
Address 

! 
f $25 per semester P.O.BoxQ $40peryear Notre Dame, IN 46556 City ----------------state ----ZIP------­
i 
-----------··-------------------------------------------------­
t 







