
Renovation -page 3 
, 01 . \.\.I. , _ an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's SATURDAY. AUCl1ST 23, 1986
01 


Class of 1990: the beginning at last 
450 to enter ND welcomes Saint Mary's 1,820 frosh 
By MARGIE KERSTEN By MARK PANKOWSKI 
News EditorSaint Mary's Editor 

More than 450 freshmen have ar­For about 1820 incoming rived on campus to begin their four freshmen at Notre Dame, this is years of college at Saint Mary's. when it all begins. 
"The incoming freshman class Members of the Class of 1990 will gain a lot from the Saint Mary's have arrived for freshman­experience as well as enhance the orientation weekend, the first of 
College community," said Mary many events during their four years Ann Rowan, director of admission at Notre Dame. for Saint Mary's. "I wouldn't doubt it's one of the best classes ever," said Pat Leonar­Fifty percent of this year's do, assistant director of admissions. freshmen were in the top one-fifth Thirty-five percent of this year's of their graduating class, and 30 freshman class ranked in the top percent were in the top I0 percent, five of their graduating class, 75 Rowan said. percent were in the top 10 percent and 92 percent were in the top one­From an applicant pool of 10~5 fifth, according to Notre Dame's women, 820 were accepted to at­1986-87 Fact Sheet. tend Saint Mary's, according to Members of the Class of 1990 Rowan. also did well on the Scholastic Ap­The class of 1990 represents 34 titude Test. Their average com­states and seven foreign countries. posite score -approximately Indiana, Michigan, Ohio and Illinois 1,200 -is slightlyhigher than last are the largest states that are year's, Leonardo said. represented, she said. Rowan noted "It's a very talented class," that an increased number of Leonardo added. "A tremendous students came from Wisconsin, number of them were captains of MinnesOta, Iowa, New York, Penn­school teams or class presidents." 
sylvania and California. Approximately 2900 of the 6700 students who applied to Notre The size of the freshman class is Dame were accepted, Leonardo 
down from last year, said Rowan, said. Of those 2,900, between explaining that it was "smaller by 1,820 and 1,825 are expected to design." The decrease in students enroll, he said. is because of the size of the 
graduating class of 1986, as well as Exact figures were not available the "phenominal retention rate" -because some students who sent in the number ofstudents who remain their enrollment confirmation may 
at Saint Mary's rather than transfer cancel at the last minute or not to another college. show up, he said. 
Although housing is filled to Only about 90 of this year's capacity, Rowan said no students freshmen have cancelled so far, will have to live in temporary Leonardo said. "That's one of the housing. lowest number of cancellations 
ever," he said. "It's 50 percent 

Rowan attributes "the effective lower than two year's ago". enrollment plan to a total College "This is a class that seems to want commitment." This includes per· Destination Dome to go to Notre Dame." sonal contact to prospective Despite the low number of 
Asfuture alumni and their parents arrive yesterday 

students by faculty and administra­cancellations, this year's freshman 
afternoon, they are greeted by the Alumni Association

tion as well as more than 700 per­class probably will be slightly sonal interviews by the six-member van. More than 1,800 Notre Dame freshmen will have admission committee. arrived by this weekend as freshman orientation con-see CLASS, page 7 


Study lounges to be temporary home for 84 ND freshmen 
By MARK PANKOWSKI 
News Editor 
While some students like to get a head start on their schoolwork, that's not the reason why more than 80 Notre Dame freshmen are expected to be in study lounges this week. 
They'll be living in them -but only for awhile. 
Because of overfilled dorms, about 84 freshmen will temporari­ly reside in study lounges in Flan­ner, Grace and Sorin halls, according to Evelyn Reinebold, director of student residences. 
In addition, six other freshmen will be squeezed into dorm rooms in Alumni, Cavanaugh, Morrissey and Zahm halls. For example, a room designed for three students may temporarily have four. 
Reinebold, who has been at the University for 15 years, said that this is the largest number of freshmen in makeshift quarters that she can remember. She added that Student Residences has been forc­ed to put freshmen in temporary quarters for a number of years. 
"We've always had an overflow," she said. 
As other students move off cam­pus or leave the University, freshmen will be relocated into other dorms, she said. 
Reinebold said that she didn't know how long it would take to find permanent rooms for all the freshmen. "I wish I had a crystal ball," she said. 
Last year, study lounges were home to 41 freshmen. Reinebold said she believed all had permanent rooms by the beginning of Oc­tober, possibly earlier. 
Freshmen will be moved out ac­cording to when they sent in their enrollment confirmations, she said. The earlier a student sent in his con­firmation, the quicker he'll be mov­ed out. 

Currently, freshmen who sent in their confirmations after May 1 are in study lounges or squeezed Jnto dorm rooms, Reinebold said. Although in the past both male and female freshmen were placed in temporary quarters, this year all are male students, she said. 
Reinebold said freshmen must be placed in makeshift quarters because the Admissions Office ac­cepts more students than there is space for, knowing that some will not come. Admissions must estimate the number that will decline the invitations, cancel their confirmations or not show up. 
Because the number of cancella­tions was low this year, Student Residences was forced to place freshmen in temporary rooms, Reinebold said. 
Assistant Director of Admissions Pat Leonardo disagreed, however. Leonardo said that although the number of cancellations was very low this year, Admissions expects between 1,820 and 1,825 freshmen to enroll. That's approximately the same number as Admissions was told to bring, he said. 
With that in mind, Leonardo said he could only explain why about 20 students are without permanent rooms. According to Leonardo, on Wednesday Student Residences was given a list of approximately 1,840 freshmen that would need rooms. About 20 freshmen do not show up each year, he said. 
Because Student Residences doesn't know which freshmen won't show up, some must be plac­ed in temporary rooms, Leonardo said. Later, as the names of freshmen that didn't enroll become available, Student Residences can then assign those students in tem­porary quarters to the rooms of the ''no-shows.'' 
Because this only accounts for about 20 students living in tem­porary quarters this year, rather than 90, Leonardo suggested that Student Residences might be par­tially responsible for the overflow. "If in fact 90 'people are in study lounges ... why is there not 20 or 30?" 
After Leonardo asked this ques­tion, an attempt was made to call back Reinebold. However, her assistant said Reinebold had become ill and had left the office for the day. An early deadline for 
see LOUNGES, page 7 
-~~------­


In Brief 
I 

Three residence halls at Saint Mary's will have new directors. Holly Taylor, who served in a variety of ad­ministrative positions at Bethel College, will be Regina Hall's residence hall director. Mary Jo Palmieri, who received her Masters Degree in counselor education from the University of Pittsburgh, will serve as McCandless Hall's director. Margaret "Mugs" Caven has moved to serve as director at LeMans Hall. -The Observer 
Construction of the additions to the Notre 
Dame Law School has been delayed and won't be completed un­til October, according to Don Dedrick, director of the physical plant. Rain in November and delays in the delivery of materials slowed construction, Dedrick said. The remodeling of portions of the old building has been completed, as well as the north end of the addition, he said. Workers are now finishing the exterior masonry and working on the windows. Once they're done, they'll work on the offices in the south end of the addition. -The Observer 
Notre Dame's War Memorial will be com­
pleted in about two weeks, according to Don Dedrick, director of the physical plant. Construction was delayed by the late ship­ment of black granite that surrounds the fountain, Dedrick said. "We had a heck of a time getting the black granite from Italy," he said. On Tuesday, the fountain was turned on. However, workers still must repair the sprinkler system and put in new sod before the memorial is completely done, Dedrick said. -The Observer 
Ernan McMullin, O'Hara professor of philosophy at Notre Dame, has been elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, an international honorary society based in Cam­bridge, Mass. McMullin, who joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1954, was chairman of the department of philosophy for s;even years. Currently director of the program in the history and philosophy of science, he specializes in theories of scientific method, the scientific revolution of the 17th century and the in­teractions of science and theology. Academy members research and publish material on national and international issues such as human rights, weapons in space and corporate responsibility. ­
The Observer 

Notre Dame received $1,150,575 in grants during May and $1,748,858 during June for the support of research, equip­ment, instructional programs, service programs and other projects. Research grants in May totaled S818,069 and included $134,785 from the National Institutes of Health for research on predicting and modifying parenting in adolescent mothers by John Borkowski and Thomas Whitman, professors of psychology; Cyn­thia Schellenbach, assistant professor of psychology; and Scott Maxwell, associate professor of pyschology. Research grants in June totaled $1,537,192 and included $344,071 from Amedcan Biogenetic Sciences Inc. for research and services in the Univer­sity's Lobund Laboratory.-The Observer 



SAVE! 


Get ready for a delicious meal, and savings too. When you try one of Rax's famous roast beef sandwiches, piled high with juicy roast beef and served on a hot bun. Or a fluffy baked potato with your choice of great toppings. Either way, you can't beat the taste. Or the savings. Taste the Rax Experience. 
60~0FF
REGULAR 
any Baked Potato and •edla• .oft clrlak or Iced tea
RAX 994 
Fluffy baked potato with your choice of tantalizinq toppinqs. PWl I'UIIi
Pleue praatcoupon bft>re ordering. 
........................... 
one coupon per penon, per vlllt. Not 
_.....,............._ .... 
valid In com~ with any othor Ru 
..... .......... 
...... 08er good at partldpatlng Ru 
.... a......... , .... 
R-ur-only. .__... 
Off•.......Octo"-ll,lH6 Qpx ....................... 
l/20cent cuh redemption value 1986 Ru Rntauranu, Inc.
___________________J 


r--------~---------,
60eOFF... : 
SOUTH 
SALAD BEND PLUS MEXICAN BAR MISHAWAKA AND MEDIUM SOFf DRINK 

PUJI7
52770 536
...........................
-..................._ ....
US.33 WEST
..... 'ld ............ 
.... a.......... , .....
NORTH McKINLEY 
.........................

---·· 
Just north of "On the Strip" Ramada Inn 

RPx 
~------------------~ 
;Of Interest : 
"Taste of Notre Dame," a food sampling ex­travaganza, will be presented by the University Food Servio~s dur­ing Monday's lunch. Stepan Field will be covered with more than 70 vendors serving 170 different foods and supplies used in the Notre Dame dining services. Students should bring their IDs to Stepan. Meal tickets also will be available. -The Observer 
'' 1986 Welcome Back Picnic'' will be held 
from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. Tuesday on Stepan Field. The pi•:nic is presented by University Food Services to kick off the school year. Students should bring their IDs, and meal tickets will be available. 
-The Observer 

The Notre Dame Chamber Orchestra is Inviting musi­cians to audition for the upcoming school year. Those interested should sign up at Room 206 of Crowley Hall of Music. For more information, contact Laura Klugherz at 239-6422.-The Ol1server 

Design Editor . ....•......... Chris Bowler Am!nt Copy Editor . ......... Mory Jacoby Design Assistant .......... Mark Weimholt AdDesign ........... Mary Carol Creadon N~ws Editor . ............ Mark Pankowski .................... Catherine Ramsden ........................... Tripp Baltz .......................... Fred Nelson Copy Editor . ............... Cliff Stevens ................ , •... Alison Fahrenkopf Sports Copy Editor . ....... Dennis Conipn Photograp!ILrs ............... Jim Carroll 
....................... Mary Heilmann ........................... Tripp Baltz Viewpoint Copy Editor . ... .jMaura Mandyck 

Thr O~r ( 1·~~ ~9'1l-·tllllll I is puhhshrd Munday throul!h Friday cxn·pl during e-xam and \'ac:auon prriod' Thr 0~ is puhlishr<.l by lhr sru<.lrnls oflhr r·ni\·ersirt· of ~otrr l>amr and ~nl Mary·, Collrgr Subscripllon> may hr purchasr<.l ror HO prr t·rar ( llll prr "tmt'Sirr I h\ wr111ng Thr Observer, P.O. Box I.J. ~our l>amr. Indiana 
~(}~~(} 
Thr Observrr as a mrmhrr or The Assoc:lated Prna-All rcprodu<·tion righrs arc­rC"~ .."rd 
The Observer  Saturday, August 23, 1986 ­ page 2  

The Observer Saturday, August 23, 1986 -page 3 

~· 
Tile Ol>oerYer/llm Carron 
Tuning up 
Ray Bologna,, Greg Klis, Jim McEachen and Rob members, who arrived late in the week, will be visible Grahek (left to right), of the Notre Dame marching and audible in the coming weeks practicing for the band, gear up for the upcoming football ~eason. Band first game on Sept. 13. 

DINE IN OR CARRY OUT 

• SZE-CHAUN • CHINESE • VIETNAMESE <Beer Available> AND AMERICAN DISHES 
&;'"'" 
"ENJOY A UNIQUE EXPERIENCE Ql~· ~-• . -~
.. ·t·r~--­
IN ORIENTAL DINING" \II:Y¥~ I, ( .i I · 
PRIVATE DINING BOOTHS ' · [ J 1 
V' FRESH lftGREDlENTS ~ •: · V' NO MASS PRODUCTION OP<N :::~~~M~t~~.:g. V' HEALTHY FAMILY STYLE DINING -•
ClOSfD SUNDAY 
~ 272-6702 '······­
6329 UNIVERSITY C.O!AMQN$ 
lACROSS FROM UNIVERSITY PARK MAll I 

-·..··-~ ;,-:__/
SOUTH BEND IN 46635 
Special Group B
SIZES 
12'x6' to 
SIZES 

5999
599 
12'x9' to
12'x9' 
12'x15'
from.... 
from. 
O~IN DAILY SOUTHBEND 

KALAMAZOO 
1:30 to I 

5747 S-Westnedge Ave SUNDAY CREDIT TERMS AVAILABLE NOON to I 277-5900 343·9170 
.__________ AMERICA'S LARGEST CARPET RETAILER ... OVER 10 OUTLETS 
5505 GRAPE ROAD 

---------.1 
LaFortune renovation complete by October 
By MARK PANKOWSKI 
News Editor 
Once hoped to be finished by now, the renovation of the LaFor­tune Student Center is currently slated for completion by the third week of October, said Don Dedrick, director of the physical plant. 
However, Dedrick said, parts of the building are essentially com­plete, and some businesses and organizations have already moved in. 
Dedrick attributed the late com­

pletion  date  to  delays  in  the  
delivery  of  materials  and  bad  
weather  in  November  and  
December.  

''The delivery of materials really held us up," Dedrick said. "When one material is not here, it really holds everything up." 
"Construction delays were also caused by the weather," he said. "We had quite a bit of rain last November. We were doing out­door work and we just couldn't get the work done." 
Once completed, the student center will feature an elevator and a ramp, making it accessible to the handicapped, he said. 
Dedrick described the renova­tion, begun last year, as being done from the top on down. "As parts are completed, they'll be turned over to the students," he said. 
Currently, workers are putting the finishing touches on the third floor, which will house Student Ac­tivities, The Observer, the Dome, Scholastic, Adworks, a lounge area and conference rooms. 
The offices of Student Activities, The Observer and the Dome are nearly complete, while Scholastic's should be done in about two weeks, Dedrick said. Student Ac­tivities and The Observer already have begun moving in. 
On the second floor, workers are painting and doing the wood trim, Dedrick said. Student government, the International Student Affairs/Minority Student Affairs Office, Student Activities Board, Shenanigans, the class offices, WVFI-AM student radio station, the International Student Office lounge, the Black Cultural Arts Council. lounge, Theodore's and club offices will all be located on the second floor. 
Although Dedrick said the offices of student government should be completed in about two weeks, it wasn't clear when the others would be finished. 
The Ballroom, also located on the second floor, is essentially com­plete, Dedrick said. However, the stairway leading to the Ballroom still needs painting and plastering. 
On the first floor, construction is being done on the walls and ceil­ing of the Huddle, he said. The fast­food eatery should be completed by the third week of October. 
Much work still needs to be done on the basement area, although the University Barbershop, which mov­ed from Badin Hall, is already open there, Dedrick said. He added that he expects 1st Source Travel, which also moved from Badin Hall, and the Irish Gardens florist to be open by the time school starts. 
"The other businesses, it's a lit­tle premature for me to know (when they'll be open)," Dedrick said. "The sweet shop, University Hair Stylist and game room will be awhile." 
University Hair Stylist will remain in Badin Hall until it moves to the basement. 
Other businesses to be housed in 

LaFortune's basement include the 
Ticket Stub, The Cellar (a record 
store) and a 24-hour laundromat. A 
television lounge will also be 
located there. 
Dedrick said he expects the 24-hour laundromat to be the last part ofthe building completed, pro­bably by the third week of October. 
"I think when we finish everybody will be pleased,'' Dedrick said. "It's worth the wait." 

\ca~pus 

Hair cfatters Lemans HaD ' ·.....~ Saint Mary's Campus 
II: 

~Says, "Welcome to al 
L~~~ GooD N.D. & Saint Mary' 
FEEL GooD students. Let's have PLACE" great time in '86-87'.' 
284-5363 
•framesi Color 
• 

PAUL MITCHELL &SEBASTIAN Products •
ZOTOS Perms 

• 
Tanning Beds ' Hi-Lighting 

•
..New" mens short haircuts ·Acrylic nails &manicures 


-----------~----------------­
Coupon good for A FREE Paul Mitchel Hair care product with a haircut
$2.00 $2.00 
Value Value 
One per student or staff Expires Oct. 1, 1986 
---------------~--------~­
-~-~-----------------­
The Observer Saturday, August 23, 1986-page 4 

Popcorn Chicken Wings Roost Turkey Roost Beef, Meatballs Com on the Cob Apples Sweet Cider Applebutter fftsh-Ground Peanut Butter Trail Mixes Cheese Specialty f=ruits & Vegetables Snack Coke Hydrox Cookies Oteeze-lt Wheat Wafer Krlspy Saltines Harvest Mill Wheat Cracker Yogurt Fruh Fruit and Produce Pulled Pork Barbecue ChHse lt.ms Gyros Meat Pita had Tzotzlkl Sauce Unpeeled Slices (Apples) Apple Quarters Apple Cranberry Sauce 
CNcken~ts 
Taco Nugget fllcala Ulng Portion 
Corn Nuggets Vegetable Stix Hush Puppies Mozzarella Nuggets Taquitos Burritos Frankn Stuff wi,th Chili Frankn Stuff wiith Cheese Harmel Breakfast Bars Oueso Calient1~ Nacho Cheese Sauce Minute Maid L~monade Fruit Punch Aefried Beans Honey & Nut 1roasted Oat'mmms Cap'n Crunch Chewy Granola Bars French Twins Elread Ice Cream Cone Samples 7-Up Diet 7-Up Squirt Diet Squirt Crush Honey-4 Aa110rs Honey with PG~cans Whipped Hon1zy Blended Fruit Drinks Hi-Une Fruit Juice Beverages Sirtoin Butt Strip Steak Trail Blazer Si1ioin Steak 
Black Nugget Sirloin Steak Salisbury Steak Pizza Pattie w/Cheese "Phllly" Sand Steak Hoagie Beef Pattie Home Style Nugget Cottage Cheese Dairy Products Coffee Decaf Dressing & Cheeses Sausage & Peppers in Sauce Beef Burgundy Macaroni & Cheese Mac & Beef Vegetable lasagna Salisbury Steaks Short Ribs in BBO Sauce 
Meatballs in italian Sauce Twinkies Croutons Ketchup Mustard & Sweetner Packets Pickles Seafood Cocktail Sauces Potato Chips ( 5 varieties) Pepsi Diet Pepsi Mountain Dew Dr. Pepper 
Orange Slice Chicken Style Hot Dogs Shell Eggs Egg Products Mexican Food Products Puff Pastry Desserts Danish Dough Pastry Filled & Iced Chocolate Eclair Juice ( 21 varieties) Coca Cola Sprite Diet Coke Cherry Coke Hot Chocolate (samples handout) Scalloped Apples with Whipped Cream V-8 Juice Goldfish Crackers Chili Beef Soup LS. Prego 
P.F. Muffins Peel and Eat Shrimp Sweet Potato Fries Frozen Soft-Serve Yogurt Neste a Rich 'n Creamy Hot Cocoa Keen Drink Mixes Ubbey Juices Gourmet Inti. Omelettes Filled Crepes (Neapolitan Beef, 
Sausage & Mushroom, Fiesta Beef) 
Join us at the 
T~ISTE OF NOTRE DAME 
Monda1,_,, August 25, 1986 o 11:00-2:00 Stepan Field 
North Dining Hall will be dosed for lunch. South Dining Hall serving ll :00 to l: 15. 

r-----~------------------~--~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~---------------~~~ 
The Observer Saturday, August 23, 1986 -page 5 
Hawaiian Luau one of many events set for SMC freshmen 
By MARGIE KERSTEN 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's freshmen may not have time to become homesick as the Orientation committee has planned several events to keep them busy. 
Beginning this afternoon, freshmen anq their parents will have the opportunity to learn about the different study-abroad pro­grams affiliated with Saint Mary's. These include Rome, Spain, Semester around the World and the various summer-abroad programs offered by the College. 
This evening, the traditional Hawaiian Luau will take place on the Dining Hall Green. According to Orientation Chairperson Maura Barille, Hawaiian dancers, food and much socializing will be part of the festivities. · 
Guests of Saint Mary's freshmen will be able to purchase tickets for S5. Admission is free for those 12 and under. 
For the second year in a row, the survival-leader program will play a significant role in introducing freshmen to college life, according 

lnformat"lon Sessions 

I SMC NO ~ ~ Fri., Aug. 22 Sun., Aug. 24 

~ 3 30 
~ : p • ffi. 2:00 p.ffi. 
~ Little Thea•re ACC 
~ 1 



~~=~1 :~~~~e ice~~~~~~~;,!,~~~~~~~~~~ 
Directions: 
_•..,N..o..__.1 0 

:::J 
Edison ~ 
__.... 8. 
Mishawaka 
l7IS> 
~ 
~ ~ ~ 
~ 
l?lS> 
~ ~ 
~ 
(a fter general SeSSiOn)
· :l
~

~ 
~ 

~ Parent5 WeIcome ~ 
?.~~~G0G0G0G0G0007
,_ G0,G\00000~~~~~~~~, 

<ZJ'X 0'X 0'X 0'X 0'X <?IX 0'ic 0'ic 0'i< 0'ic 0'i< 0'ic 0'ic <?IX 0'ic <Zfi<l?tx C?fX 0'X 0'i< C?fX ~ 

Carpet your dorm room with thick, beaatifal carpet, but not empty your pocketbook! Sizes from 6x9, 12x7, 12x8, 12x9, 12x12, 12x13,12x14,12x15,12xl6,12xl8,andap. 
McKinley Carpet *Remnant 

to Barille. "I think it (the program) is fantastic for the freshmen and is an instant way for the girls to make friends." 
The survival-leader program con­sists of approximately 85 up­perclassmen volunteering their time to the freshmen. Each up­perclassman has five or six freshmen in her group, said Kathy Bryant, assistant chairperson. 
All members of the group live in the same dorm, which allows the women easy accessibility to their leader, Bryant said. 
Survival-group meetings will continue throughout the orienta­tion period and possibly throughout the entire semester, said Barille. 
Socializing will continue tom-morrow night at the Pre-Dance par­ty on the Haggar College Center Terrace for both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's freshmen. During the party, Saint Mary's freshmen will be able to obtain tickets for the Stepan Center dance, which will follow at 9. 
In addition to the socializing, educational meetings will be scheduled for incoming students today and tomorrow. Meetings for parents and discusssions about col­lege majors are among the events planned. 
After the initial transition to col­lege life, Saint Mary's will be spon­soring a freshman trip to the Warren Dunes in Michigan. Buses are scheduled to depart from the McCandless Hall parking lot at 9 
a.m. on Saturday, Aug. 30. 
Barille said she is "pleased with the attitude and enthusiasm" of about 200 volunteers who have made the orientation possible. "We are really anticipating the arrival of the freshmen and feel we are organized and confident that it will go well." 
Before it's all work and no play for Notre Dame freshmen, they will be treated to Playfair, a set program of comedy skits and audience par­
~~pation to~~ h~~d tom~rro~ at
5

: p.m on e epan ours. 
Described as "the ultimate 
icebreaker" by Martine Beamon, chairman of the Freshmen Orienta­tion Committee, Playfair will feature group dynamic exercises. 
Students may be asked to form groups according to the month of their birth or their home state. 
speaker. According to Beamon, Holtz is the appropriate speaker because "he will tell why he's very proud to be at Notre Dame." 
Beamon suggests students dress 

casually for the event because it's non-competitive. Following Playfair will be Dancefair, based on 
Recess, an event of Notre Dame's 
spring festival, An Tostal.
"Dancefair is more than a dance, it's a party," said Beamon. 
Freshmen will be officially welcomed aboard tonight at 7:30 in the Athletic Convocation Center. 
new orientation event to be held in the A.C.C .. At 11 a.m. will be the Welcome Mass for freshmen and their parents. For those who have not yet 
~~~~~a~~~nc~!:;it~~~ Fr~l~h:~n 
w ­tinue to offer tours today and tomorrow. Groups will leave hour­ly from the Main Circle, with sec­
· f ·-2 ff< d · uons.o -p.m. tour 0 ere Ill
Sparush. 
"Freshmen Orientation is design­ed for new ~tudents to see,wh~t NBeoamtre Dn.ame ts really about, satd 
0 

Bring Your Measurements VISA and MasterCard accepted 
Open Daily 10-6 Sat 10-5 

234·5148 
Open Sunday 8/24 only, Noon-Sp.m. For your convenience 

Want to tell your buddy in Boise about the big ballgame? DIAL UP CLARK LONG DISTANCE. 

Want to tell y'Our sister in Scarsdale about studying Spencer? DIAL UP CLARK LONG DISTANCE. 
Want to tell your girl in Galveston about going ~1oofy without her? DIAl. UP CLARK LONG DISTANCE. 
Any time you pick up the phone and dial up Clark long distance, you'll dial up savin!~S. Because Clark quality long distance costs less ...5°/o less than AT&T for comparable calls. 
So make your first call a call to Clark's on-campus representative at 283-4150. Or visit our office in Room G89, Memorial Ubrary. And phone home...for less. 
CLqiRKTELECOMMUNICATIONS, INC. 
The Observer Saturday, August 23, 1986 -page 7 
I·.S Mon.·Sat. 
lli.ZSI-Ilt-1

Bildin Hall Notre D•me, IN ~6SS6
Unn·enll)' of Noln 0,.111~ (l.ven1n11 by Appotnlrnt'Jtl) 

UNIVERSITY HAIR STYLISTS 

FULL SERVICE UNISEX CENTER -------HAIR CUTTING SPECIALISTS------­
Our master styl1sts hove the up-!0-dofe and con'"""' -'"n '·' ·'"'c tor the men and women of the Notre Ddme and So1nt Mary's campuses. Let us toke core of all your hair core needs We olso hove a full line of reto11 hair products and· ne 10 _ateo on r;ompus tor your conven1ence 



1M-~ 
sun tmr)rg satn JMS PLAZA 4609 GRAPE RD. 
GOOD THRU AUG. 31 MISHAWAKA, IN 
~ 277-7026 
I·~--------------------,
Bed lntro Pkg. Booth 
1 
1 0 VISITS ~ 3 Beds ~~ 10 VISITS 1
1 t;._~ 3 Booths ~~ 1I$3900 $2QOO $2500 I
fl ____________________.. 
"PACKAGE MUST BE COMPLETED BY OCT 1 191:l6 

.Instant Access by Phone 

~~~·.•. , •. • 
Right on Campus! 
Savings 
Travelers Checks 

We look forward to serving you this year 
~ 

NOTRE DAME CREDIT UNION 
FEDERALLY CHARTERED 
19033 Douglas Road 239·6611 

ND student government unchanged 
By FRANK LIPO 
Staff Reporter 
Although several attempts were made last year to reorganize Notre Dame's student government, they all failed, and thus the structure re­mains the same. 
Student Government 
Campus-wide student govern­ment is established by a written constitution. The constitution establishes the positions of student-
body president, vice president and chairmen of each dorm. treasurer, and allows a cabinet to be The council provides assistance chosen by the student-body presi­to students accused of violating dent. University rules and regulations. 
Student Activities Board By the use ofsubcommittees, the Hall Presidents' Council 
SAB runs the annual Stepan Mall The Hall Presidents' Council is where students are able to rent composed of all 24 hall presidents, refrigerators and buy furniture for an elected off-campus commis­their rooms. The SAB also coor­sioner, a secretary and a chairman. dinates other events throughout the The HPC helps sponsor dorm year. events and acts as a network of in­Student Senate formation and a support system for 
The Student Senate also is the individual dorms. established by the constitution. It The HPC, which meets once a is composed of representatives week and has its own constitution, from other branches of govern­also has legislative responsibilities. ment, an elected off-campus Campus Life Council senator and four elected on-campus The Campus Life Council is the senators. part of student government respon­
Judicial Council sible for passing or rejecting pro­
The Judicial Council, also posals initiated by the Student established by the constitution, is Senate. It includes people from composed of the judicial board every aspect of the University. 
Freshmen can get involved in SMC student government 
By MARGIE KERSTEN 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Freshmen at Saint Mary's will have plenty of opportunities to become involved in student government, according to Student Body President Jeanne Heller. 
Freshmen will have the oppor­tunity to apply for several different commissioner positions in their respective dorms, Heller said. They can also run for one of the four class offices in September. 

Student government at Saint Mary's takes the form of three main bodies: the Board of Governance, the Student Academic Council and the Programming Board. 
The Board of Governance, chaired by the Student Body Presi­dent, has jurisdiction over propos­ed changes in policy. Residence hall 

Class 
continuedfrom page 1 

smaller than last year's, when ap­proximately 1,840 freshmen enroll­ed, Leonardo said. However, it will be larger than the freshman class of two years ago, when 1790 came to the University. 
Approximately 1310 of this year's freshman class are men and about 515 are women, a ratio near­ly the same as last year, Leonardo 

Lounges 
continuedfrom page 1 this issue prevented additional calls the next day. 
Earlier, Reinebold said that 40 freshmen would live in study lounges in each of Grace and Plan­ner halls, with four men to a lounge. Four freshmen will also live in Sarin Hall's study lounge. 
Although BuildinR Services tries to make the lounges comparable to 
and class presidents are members of the Board of Governance, in addi­tion to student commissioners. A Notre Dame representative and a resident advisor representative also attend Board meetings. 
Betsy Burke, vice president for academic affairs and college rela­tions, chairs the Student Academic Council. It consists of student representatives from each academic department of the College and various College committees. The Council provides a forum for stu­dent discussion of different academic policies and proposed changes. 
The third student-government body, the Programming Board, is chaired by Sarah Cook, vice presi­dent for student affairs. The Pro­gramming Board plans activities and coordinates student-related events on campus. 
said. 
About 62 blacks, 58 hispanics, 32 Asian-Americans and nine American Indians are expected to enroll, as are 43 foreign students, he said. 
Indiana, New York and Illinois are about tied for the state which most freshmen call home, Leonar­do said. In descending order, the remaining top 12 home states of freshmen are Pennsylvania, Ohio, California, New Jersey, Michigan, Texas, Massachussetts, Florida and Wisconsin. 
a student room, placing furniture and phones in the lounges, Reinebold said it's still difficult for freshmen to live in the temporary quarters . 
"The problem is they (students) move in and get acquainted with each other. They make friends," Reinebold said. "But then we move them out according to confirmation dates." 
"Some really want to stay in Plan­ner or Grace, but we can't do that,"she said . 

Lee's Bar-B-Que proudly presents 'The 1st Annual Back to School Bash!' 

'One ofthe finest bands e~~er to comefrom South Bend' -S.B. Tribune 
This Monday &: Tuesday Aug. 25 &: 26 
9:00 pDI • 2:00 aDI 
Lee's Bar-B-Que 1132 South Bend Ave. 232-9311 Cover: $3.00 LIMITED CAPACITY! Age 21 -2I.D.'s 


Accent 
Saturday, August 23, 1986 -page 8 
Roommates: horror sto~ies, 
MAfif:,"'!Jf':ig,?v The.e ~nome ofthe people lne=•ntly on the phone with hannll endIngs
you might hear the horror old friends from home so that 

r r :::J 

The question right now might be: How do I become best friends with my roommate? 
Three months from now that question could be: Is it really im­portant that I become best friends with my roommate? 
Many of the most fruitful roomming situations result from roommates who "broaden their horizons and develop new in­terests," according to Christine Conway, a psychologist with the University Counseling Center. Conway said stress often results when roommates "have the ex­pectation they're going to be best friends." 
It may seem like heresy to suggest that successful room­mates can be none other than best friends. That notion can become even more stupefying for freshman when they look around them and see their new classmates in the dorms going to parties with their roommates already, talking and laughing together as if their relationships date back to kindergarten. 
Don't let it fool you. Most every other freshman out there is experiencing the same tight knot in the stomach when it comes to smiling at all these new acquaintances and trying to make interesting conversation without asking too many times where someone is from or what his major is. 
And-the person who deludes himself the most could very well be the freshman across the hall who spends every moment of his time with his roommate, go­ing from one orientation session to another together, laughing, talking, calling his roommate his best friend after only a week on campus. 
stories about later. her new friend -her roommate 
Campus lore passes down the -couldn't get a peaceful rna­tale of one freshman woman on ment in edgewise. Or possibly the North Quad who moved! all they both couldn't take the her roommate's belongings into strain of trying to force the hall -including her bed -themselves to like each other. after reaching the breaking point But this is an extreme case. in their relationship. What that I spent my entire first week on breaking point may have be•::n campus living off a tin of varies with each interpretation of molasses cookies my grand-the story. Maybe the disposessed mother sent with me as a going roommate was a neurotic chain away present. I couldn't go to smoker who was afraid to face the dining hall because my men, or perhaps she chatter·ed roommate was always away, off with her parents or other friends, attending different func­tions from mine. And no freshman ventures out anywhere, much less the dining hall, alone. 
Thus I was too shy to hang around with some of the other freshmen in my dorm until I was asked to go to dinner with them because they all seemed so chummy. Already. The women in the quad next to my room were already wearing each other's clothes and french­braiding each other's hair. The roommates in the singles across from mine were already a solid pair in the minds of other residents, who never saw one without the other. And then there I was, all alone, tired of tagging along with other room­mates and afraid that I might already appear to be a real loser because even my own roommate wouldn't associate with me. 


"You arrive at the University and haven't met anyone yet but your roommate. It's kind of out of fear you want to be with this person," Conway said. 
But that was only the first week of my career at Notre Dame. Of all the roommates around me in my dorm, I was one of the few who ended up pairing with my freshman room­mate again. We shared the same living space for three years. 
During freshman orientation it would have been hard to believe that we could milk three years together out of that unsure beginning. After all, we didn't seem to take to one another right away as others around us did. But that's just the point: we gave each other time to become adjusted to our new situations and recognize that we were not old friends, that we were not ready to share our all our moments and activities together. 
But now after having shared many memorable times, I'd say we would qualify as old friends. Living successfully with another person in a 12-by-18-foot room fosters a special kind of bond in­to which no one else can ever quite enter. That first week of doubt and insecurity really paid off. 


Exploring strange frontiers 
ERIC M. BERGAMO 
assistant features editor 

Being a freshman at Notre Dame in South Bend is like be­ing a stranger in a strange land. 
Gone are all the familiar places of your hometown, replaced by the new surroundings of South Bend. Here are some hints to help make the transition to this new home easier. 
Places to shop 

Three major shopping malls in the South Bend area offer a variety of stores. 
University Park Mall is two miles north of the campus on State Route 23. The mall features more than 90 stores and restaurants along with two movie theaters that show the latest releases. A shuttle bus runs from the campus to the mall every Friday and Saturday even­ing at a cost of 50 cents. During the week Transpo, the South Bend area public transportation service, runs buses to the mall. 
Scottsdale Mall is on the south side of the city on Ireland Road. Scottsdale offers many of the same stores as University Park and has two movie theaters. Transpo runs bus service to this mall as well. 
The 100 Center in nearby Mishawaka is different from University Park and Scottsdale in that it is located in a renovated brewery. A number of unique 
Other smaller shopping centers are close to the Notre Dame campus. North Village Mall on 
U.S. 31 and the Town and Coun­try Plaza on McKinley A venue are nearest. 
The Goodwill Store offers us­ed merchandise at very inexpen­sive prices. Such items as easy chairs, couches, tables and lamps for dorm rooms can be bought there. Goodwill is a half mile south of the campus at the Five Corners. 


Lodging 
A number of hotels and motels 
in South Bend provide lodging at 
comparable prices, either inex­
pensive or expensive. 
The Morris Inn, operated by the University, is the closest hotel to Notre Dame. The hotel is just south of the campus across from the Center for Conti­
nuing Education. 
Many inexpensive hotels can be found on U.S. 31: The Budgeteer Motor Inn, Day~: Inn, Motel 6, Howard Johnson's and the Ramada lnn. The more upscale hotels can be found in downtown South Bend at the Americana Inn on West Washington Avenue and the Mar­riott on St. Joseph's Avenue. 


Places to eat 
Fast food restaurants are on 
U.S. 31 near the campus: Azar's Big Boy; Denny's; Bonnie IDoon; Godfather Pizza; the Golden 

Ponderosa; Steak and Ale; Taco Bell and Naugles. One of the more popular restaurants is not located on US 
31. Barnaby's, where many Notre Dame students go for piz­za, is on Grape Road and East Jefferson in Mishawaka. 
For more formal dining, South Bend offers its share of restaurants with good food and good atmosphere: Barclay's on 
U.S. 31; Captain Alexander's Wharf on East Colfax A venue near downtown; the Carriage House on Adams Road; Doc Pierce's on North Main Street in Mishawaka; the East Bank Em­porium on South Niles Avenue; the Ice House and the Rathskellar, both located in the 100 Center in Mishawaka; Jeremiah Sweeney's on Grape Road; and Tippecanoe Place . 

Transportation 
Transpo offers bus service to all of South Bend and Mishawaka at a cost of 50 cents one way. Transpo buses stop at the Main Circle and the Library Circle on the campus. 
If Chicago is the destination, the South Shore Railroad Station, located ·at 722 W. Washington Ave., provides service to the Windy City. The South Shore provides service to Chicago three times daily at a cost of $14. Amtrak also provides train 

The Oboener/Jim Can'OD 

specialty shops and restaurants Bear; Kentucky Fried Chicken; service to the rest of the country Freshmen can ride the Transpo bus service downtown to visit their can be found at the 100 Center. McDonald's; Pizza Hut; from the station. parents at the Americana Inn. 
The Observer Saturday, August 23, 1986 -page 9 
( .
' 
(111-'. 


TRY OUR 
NEW 
MINI 
BAR-B-Q 
SANDWICHES 
ONLY 
69¢ 

I I I
I Pork BBQ....................69¢ or 1.65iBeef BBQ....................69¢ or 1.65 I Chic:ken BBQ..............69t or 1.65 
r,.,.,,,.,.,.,.,...,...,...,...,.... LUNCH COMBINATION served Ail Day
J . FATS ~ Any sandwich or 4 Ribs or Chicken Breast 1 BARBEQUE I with choice of any two small side orders 2. 95 
I ·~~i\~;;,:~r? I------DINNER COMBINATIONS-------tI CUP1VSAm!!'! I 1/3 Chicken BBQ.......................~~...................... 6. 95 I soeOFF I Slab Baby Back Ribs ........... !~~!!j~:!~~-~ .....•..........16.95 I ANY I 11'2Siilb Bilby Bilc:k Ribs ....... !!~-~!~~.~~~~:::..................8.95
I LUNCH I
I COMBINATION I Tenderloin Tips ....................................................... 6. 95 ..l GOODTHRU 9-29-86_) .. 1,4 Slilb Bilby Bilc:k Ribs ....... !?.~~~s!.~:~~~~! ...................6. 95 
..,...,...,...,...,...,.,...,...,...,.,...,...,.
..,...,...,...,.,...,.,...,...,...,...,...,.,.1 All Dinner Combitnations Include Cornbread Muffins, French Fries qnd Choice ofTwo Side Orders. I -FATS -~-----SIDE ORDERS--------;
I BARBEQUE ~I 1636 N. IRONWOOD I Cornbread Muffins 50¢
I . (BETWEEN EDISON 
~ &RT 23)
I 
277·0607

I 
CL/P'NSAVECOUPON 

I SJSOOFF 
ANY 



1636 N·.Ironwood (between Edison & Rt. 23) 277-0607 
ENTREES 
11'2 BBQ Chic:ken ...........................!~!:~! ................4.75 Ch• k B t BBQ (8ozBreast) 1 80
tc: en reils ............................................. . Ch. k w· BBQ (10 Wings) 1 80
IC: en ID~S ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• • 
Bilby Bilc:k Ribs, Slilb ................... (~~!!~~~ ............. 13. 95 Bilby Bilc:k Ribs, 1/2 Slilb ........ -......(!.~~~~~~ ................6. 95 Bilby Bilc:k Ribs, 1,4 Slilb ............... (?.~!~s!.................4. 95 Shrimp Bilsket .............................. !~!.:~!. ................5. 95 
. T• 112 Lb. No Bones 4 95
TenderIotn tps...................................................... . All Of The Above Includes French Fries And Extra Sauce 
I 

I Smoked Silusil~e .................. 1. 95 I I Chic:ken Sillild ....................... 1. 95 ! Fish Filet ................................1.65 I 
~ Applesauce 50¢or95¢
I ColeSlaw 50¢or95¢ 
Baked Beans 50¢or95¢
Corn on the Cob
1 

75ct 
Fruit Salad 50¢or95¢
I French Fries 

75¢ 
Macaroni Salad 50¢ or 95ct
Potato Salad 

50¢or95¢
I
I 

....------DESSERTs-------.....:
~ 

DINNER ~ Peach, Apple, or Cherry Cobbler 1.55 I 
COMBINATION I I 
c~OD THRU 9-29-86 1 1 



__. OPEN7DAYS11a.m.to9p.m. ! 
L----~--------------------~-----------~-------------------------------------J 

~i~~~_()__i__J.~__t______----__--___s_ru_urd_~_,A_u-gu-st-23-,l-98_6_P_~_e_Io 
Pressures, parents and promises for ND family 
The following column originally ap­peared in the Aug. 25, 1984 edition ofThe Observer. It was read to the students and parents of the Notre Dame Class of 1988 at Freshman Orientation. Although its con­tent bas been revised for the Class of1990, its message remains unchanged. 
Joe Murphy 
welcome home 
Other "Veteran Darners" no doubt will tell you, the Class of 1990, about Emil and about the alcohol policy. I will not. Instead, this column is about pressure, parents and promises. 
Last year at this time, I received a phone call from a man who had hoped his son would be a member of the Class of 1989. The man asked that I tell his son how one becomes a "Domer" and what exactly "Darners" do. So, being the man for others that I am, I met with the man's son. 

Young Bill reminded me of myself. Here he was, not even officially a senior in high school, already worried about college life. He obviously had been placing a great deal of pressure on himself to succeed and become a "Domer." I told him that you do not have to be a "Domer" to be a success. 
The pressure Bill was facing was com­pounded by the fact that his parents, like many Catholic parents, wanted him to attend Notre Dame. Bill wanted to know whether he could get accepted and whether he could survive at Notre Dame. I told him he would answer those two questions himself in the near future. 
Unfortunately, Bill was not accepted. Dur­ing your four years here, remember Bill and the thousands of other young students who would love to be where you are. I ask only that you make a simple promise to yourself because you are here and they are not: Pro­mise yourself that you will leave Notre Dame a better person and that Notre Dame will be a better place for your having been here. 
For the Class of 1990, the question of ac­ceptance has been answered. I am sure though, the question of academic and social 
survival remains a nagging doubt hidden in 
the back of your mind. 
To the Class of 1990, some simple advice 
is offered. Do not let the pressure get the best 
of you. Your parents will be just as proud 
of you whether you make the Dean's Honor 
List or not. Second, keep in close touch with 
yqur parents and relatives for they are a 
source of inspiration on many lonely nights. 
Third, stay particularly close to your grand­
parents for you are their golden dome which 
keeps them young. 
Fourth, remember it is a privilege to attend 
Notre Dame, but it is a privilege for which 
you are paying. Do not accept second-best 
from yourself or your school. Go beyond 
your potential and expect Notre Dame to go 
beyond its. That is all anyone can ask of you, 
and all you can ask of Notre Dame. Simply 
be the best. 
Fifth, and above all, remember that not 
everyone's life revolves around Notre Dame. 
Be proud, but always be humble. The pur­
pose of your education is not to place you 
above the masses, but enable you to lead the 
masses. 
Today marks not only an arrival, but a departure. You are leaving your family and joining ours. You are doing the one thing which your parents have feared from the day 

-of your birth -you are growing up. 
So to the parents of this class, I merely say 
that it is OK to cry when you say goodbye. 
If you cry though, cry for the right reasons. 
Cry because you have given your children 
the opportunity you probably never receiv­
ed. Cry because your children are no longer 
under your roof, and you will miss them. Cry 
because you love them. 
Parents remember that for every parting 
there is a homecoming. Your children have 
left only your house, not you. Rejoice in this 
triumph. You have raised your children well. 
Call often, send surprises through the mail 
and one day four years from now your 
children will return having become the type 
of people you are. That is a promise. 
joe Murphy is a senior government and international relations major from Saint Louis, Missouri and the editor-in-chief of The Observer. 


Predictions and expectations for freshman year 
Cliches tend to be so troublesome. They rear their predictable heads at births, wed­dings and deaths and other occasions where tearflow reaches optimum production. En­trance into college could well fall into this classification, meaning that the following in­ches of newsprint will be filled with archaic and bronzed bromides. I will attempt to diversify. 
Pete Pranica 
guest column 
Once upon a time, a somewhat famous person was heard to say, "Gentlemen" (although some other word would be more appropriate here today), "never in your lives will you do anything so important." This is not a line from a general or a college dean. In point of fact, it was uttered prior to the start of a Yale-Harvard football game. Before a football game, the coach's theatrics were a bit much, although upon entrance into col­lege, it is more relevant. 
True, I said I would not deal in cliches, so rather than pick apart that coach's charge to his troops, I will tell you that what you are about to undertake is the most important thing in your lives -both to you and your families. Certainly, anything costing $10,000 per year would mean a lot to anybody. 
Like it or not, at Notre Dame you will be carrying a banner for your family, town and school. In a sense you become a symbol ­a symbol of academic and social success. You achieved in high school and now it is on to a bigger challenge. How you handle that challenge will be watched by all. 
Your parents will be most concerned ­about everything from academics to your diet to your roommate. Understand and comfort them. Believe it or not, they are pro­bably just as worked up over this as you are, perhaps more so. You are the product of their toil and tears; they want only the best for you. 
While you must be understanding of your parents, it is you who must strap on the bookbag and do the reading. For some of you, this will be the first time that you have been so independent, so alone. Intimidating? 

It would certainly seem so, but only for the first few months or so. That's why Dean Emil Hofman is there. Listen to him; he has seen countless freshmen enter the Universi­ty and he knows, even better than you do, what will run through your mind during your freshman year. You will be alternately happy and not so happy, unsure of what lurks around the next corner when the only thing to fear is your own uncertainty. Notre Dame is not a monster which spits out young men and women. Instead it nurtures and educates. 
But you will do other things on your own once you've: found yourself in the Notre Dame community. You will study and read and compute and write and re-write. You will be tested, graded and evaluated. Some will excel, others will flounder, but most will do ''all right.·' You will look at career choices and choose a major as a first toddler's steps into the Gre:at Big World Out There. Under­stand though, that academia is but one part of your experience. 
You will cheer and shake down the thunder at football and basketball games, but complain if the Irish lose. You will learn that plaid pants are verboten, especially when they come with batteries. 
You will criticize the administration for its doctrine of ;in loco parentis. You will roast Father Hesburgh as a sometimes-absentee president who is out of touch with student concerns. You will toast him for turning Notre Dame into an intellectual, as well as athletic, giant. You will celebrate with him at Mass. 
You will complain loud and long about the opposite sex. You will fall in love; you will fall out of love. You may even marry so­meone in your class. But be forewarned ... any insights into the social situation you might have were already discovered years ago. Plagiarism is grounds for dismissal from the University. 
You will laugh and you will cry; you will love and (unfortunately) you will hate. You will break up and make up and sit up all night trying to make sense of it all. Welcome to college, a laboratory where you can learn in a controlled environment about yourself and others. 
You will pray at the Grotto at three in the morning in the rain or snow. You will thank God for your successes and question your failures and plead for more of the former and not the latter. 
Before long, the high-school hotshot turn­ed scared frosh will round into shape ­spiritually, academically and socially. The trip will be filled with rough seas and treacherous winds and cold nights. But you are not alone; there are 1,800 others mak­ing the same voyage and shared adversity will make you strong and mature. 
You will enter the port of adulthood in May of 1990. You will look back at the romances and road trips, the dances and the drinks, the formals and the football games, the complaints and the camaraderie and you will cry quiet, happy tears, just as your parents cried when they left you behind. 
Welcome to Notre Dame. 

Pete Pranica is a Notre Dame alumnus and was a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Quote of the Day 
"You know your gifts better than anyone else. You are free to use them as you will. I cannot tell you that you should use them to make the world better, although I think you should. Whatever I think, you must make the decision, and only you can. I can only say that your gifts are a precious heritage, and that mankind today needs such gifts if human equality, human development, and the promise of science and technology are to become a reality and not a frustrated hope. " 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C. S.C. President, University ofNotre Dame 
The Hesburgh Papers 
1979 

Parents and alumni  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  
Write us at:  46556  

The Observer  General Board  
Ed1tor-tn·Ch1ef  Joe Murphy  Busmess Manager  Ertc Scheuermann  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303'  Managmg Ed1tor V1ewp01nt Editor  Kevm Becker ScrJtt Bearby  Controller ProductiOn Manager  Alex VonderHaar Chr~s Bowler  
Sports Ed1tor  Denn1s Cornqan  Photography Manager  James Carroll  
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Untver·  Accent Edtlt;r  Mary Jac.oby  Advert1s1nq Man..tqer  Anne M Culltgan  
SJty of Notre Dame duLac and Samt Mary's College. It does not necessar1ly reflect the  Sal'lt Mary's Edttor  Marg1e Kersten  Systems Manager  , Shawn Sexton  
poi1C1es of the adm1n1strat10n of e1ther 1nstitut10n The news IS reported as accurately  News Editor .  Trtpp Baltz  Graphic Arts Manager .  Mark We1mholt  
and obJeCtively as poss1ble Uns1gned editorials represent the op1n1on of a ma1or~ty of  News Editor. .  .. Mark Pankowski  
the Ed1tor~al Board. Commentanes. letters and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of  
thetr authors Column space IS available to all members of the commun1ty and the free  
expressiOn of varv11'1Q opm1ons on campus. through letters. IS encouraged.  Founded November 3,1966  

--~·-~---~--~ --------------------~ 
~

r-----------~-~ 
Student Activities Newsletter August I September 1986 
Welcome to your home aw'y from home! We, in the Office Student Activities Night will be held at Stepan of Student Activities, know·how thrilled you are to be in Center, September 2 from 7:00p.m. until10:00 p.m. South Bend, Indiana!!! Well, you can enhance your stay Clubs and organizations will provide information at by participating in some very exciting events. Start your 
their respective booths. This is an excellent time to 
year off right --a year which we hope will be academically 
learn about the different groups on campus to help
successful as well as socially enjoyable. 
you determine where your interests lie. 
Following are some ofthe highlights: For more than a decade, Gloria Steinem has been
Hear ye, hear ye, Class of 19901 Orientation takes place August 22 through August 24. There will be a movie Friday the most persuasive spokesperson for the feminist evening, "Flamingo Kid" at 8:00p.m. in Washington movement in America. At the same time, she has Hall. Following the movie, parents are invited to a recep­built a reputation as a journalist of outstanding integ­tion in the South Dining Hall at 10:00 p.m. while students rity. Her work has appeared in New York Magazine, may attend a gathering on South Quad at 10:00 p.m. where she was a founding editor and the political Social festivities will end Sunday with "Pia.,tair" from 
columnist until1971, and numerous other national 
8:45-9:45 and a "Dancefair" immediately following 
publications, as well as many abroad. She currently
which you won't want to miss. Last year there were 
writes regularly for MS. Considered to be one of the 
approximately 3,000 students who attended this event. 
most influential women in the United States, she also
This dance is a great way to start off the social side of your 
travels as a speaker and feminist organizer. We in 
college career. 
the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community will be Whether you are jubilant or hesitant (or maybe a combina­fortunate enough to hear her elaborate on issues tion ofthe two) about your:return, you will find fun geared concerning the humanity of all peoples on September to your individual pleasures during our week of welcome. 17 O'Laughlin Auditorium. Don't miss this opportunity Individual class picnics, ice cream socials and trips to the to hear the "woman of our times." Dunes are just a few ofthe events enticing you to parti­cipate. There will also be an opportunity to do some 
"The World'• Greatest Mime." This is how Don 
shopping at Stepan MaD to make your dorm less dreary. 
Mcleod is billed. Mcleod was the famed American 
Come spend your moolah! A few other highlights of this 
Tourister gorilla and is presently filming an episode
week are 1) "The Panic" will be playing on the North 
oflV's "Amazing Stories" which will be aired in 
Quad in front of Haggar Hall from 8:00-11:00 p.m. 
September. Don performs a closing piece entitled 
Everyone is invited. 2) There will be a first ever oatdoor 
"The Creation," which portrays God's creation and
movie on campus. No cars invited!! 3) Yes, the "Music 
Man's uncreation. In addition, he has agreed to create
King" returns to play again at the annual (campus-wide) "Dance Under the Stars" Beach Party, August 29 from three of four topical pieces regarding social concerns. 9:00-11:00 p.m. Just imagine 22 tons of sand on Stepan He will also do a piece called "Sophomoric" about 
basketball courts. Add to that the sound and light extra­a young college student who "Knows it all." He will vaganza, refreshments, a WALLAH! Instant Beach appear in Washington Hall, 8:00p.m., September 18. party. all you need is a pair of sunglasses, a towel and Don't miss this unique performance. 
your dancing thongs to enjoy this evening on Stepan Beach. 
SBPTINBBR CALENDAR  
AUGUST  CALENDAR  
2  Student Activities Hight-Stepan Center  7-10:00  pm  SA  
22-2• 25 26 27  Freshman Orientation Picnic Picnic Picnic Concert-"The Panic" Movie-"Back to School" Kiss a Junior Day/ Drive-In Night Stepan Mall Used Book Exchange Scavenger Hunt Band (tentat1ve) Ice Cream Social/DJ Train to Chicago  Green Field Carroll Fld Holy Cross Fld North Quad Stepan Center Stepan Center South Quad Fieldhouse Mall  4-8: : 00 pm 5-8:00 pm 8-11:00 pm 12:30-8 3-8:00 pm 6-9:00 pm  SOPH JR SR SAB SOPH JR SAB SAB JR JR SOPH SR  3 6 7 8-11  SMC Activities Night Movie-"Blues Brothers" lmil Burning Movie-"Blues Brothes" Movie-"Out of Africa" esc Forum SMC/ND Picnic Movie-"Out of Africa" Great America Trip Spanish Mass Placement Night  SMC Eng. Eng. Eng. esc SMC Eng.  Aud. Aud. Aud. Aud.  7,9:30,12 7,9:30,12 7,10 Noon 7. 10 11:00 am 7-9:00 pm  SMC SAB SOPH SAB SAB SOPH SAB SOPH  
28  Stepan Mall Used Book Exchange Ice ere-Social Ice Cream Social Outdoor Movie Luau  Stepan Center Stepan Center South Quad SMC Rockne Memorial SMC  12:30-8 3-8:00 pll 8:00 pm 7-9:00 pa 9-11:00 pm  SAB SAB SOPH JR SAB SR  10 11 12  Movie-"Live & Let Die" CSC Hospitality Lunch Movie-"Never Say Never" Movie-"Goldfinger"  Eng. esc Eng. Eng.  Aud. Aud. Aud.  7,9:15,11:30 SAB esc 7,9:15,11:30 SAB 7,9:15,11:30 SAB  
29 30 31  Movie-"Risky Business" Dance Under the Stars Band/Obstacle Course "Shed My Hair" Dunes Trip Dunes Trip Dunes Trip Shopping Trip Movie-"Risky Business" Clase Mass St. Joe's Beach Day Claes Maes  Eng. Aud. Stepan Courts South Quad Eng. Aug. Grotto  7. 9,11 9-11 pm 1:00 pm 7 ,9,11 1-5:00 pm 7:00pm  SAB SAB SR SG SOPH JR SR FRESH SAB SOPH JR JR  13 17 18 19 20 21 24-25  Movie-"Goldfinger" Gloria Steinem Don McLeod (Mime) Movie-"The Terminator" Sox Night Game Movie-"Back to••. Puture" Movie-"Back to •..ll'uture" So. Bend Rapids Trip Movie-"All Pree. Men"  Eng. Aud. O'Laughlin Wash. Hall Eng. Aud. Eng. Aud. Eng. Aud. Eng. Aud.  7,9:15,11:30 SAB SAB 8:00 p11 SAB 7,9,11 SAB SOPH 7,9:15,11:30 SAB 7,9:15,11:30 SAB SOPH 7,9,11 SAB  
26  Movie-"Rebel Without A cause" esc rorua  Eng. esc  Aud.  7,9,11 Noon  SAB esc  
27  Movte-"Rebel Without A Cause"  Eng.  Aud.  7,9,11  SAB  
28  Class Mass  SOPH  
30  Lecture-Spasowski Movie-"Trading Places"  Eng.  Aud.  SAB 7,9:15,11:30 SAB  




Saturday, August 23, 1986-page 12 
entering his fourth year as associate l~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
People 

continuedfrom page 16 
staff. Nester also is credited with upgrading the College's soccer team from club status to the varsi­ty level, in addition to arranging for the Saint Mary's swim team's use of Rockne Memorial pool. With Il years of high school and college coaching and teaching behind her, Nester headed the Saint Mary's ten­nis team, which finished I Oth in the nation in NAIA competition last spring. Nester holds bachelor and masters degrees from West Chester State in Pennsylvania, and she received her doctor of education degree with a minor in sports ad­ministration from Temple University. 
Col. John Stephens -This is Jack Stephens' 19th year in the Irish administration and his fourth year as director of special projects for Corrigan. He assumed the role after having spent seven years as associate athletic director and another eight as an assistant direc­tor. Despite holding his present job for only a short time, though, he already has made an impact, play­ing a major role in the formation of the North Star Conference -a con­ference in which several women's sports competed until last spring. 
Roger Valdiserri-Valdiserri is 

athletic director after having serv­ed seven years as an assistant. However, he is best known for his work as director of the sports infor­-mation department. A 1954 Notre Dame graduate, he served briefly as an administrative assistant to former football coach Terry Bren­nan. In 1966, after public relations stints with Mercedes-Benz and the Kansas City Chiefs, he returned to his alma mater to become sports in­formation director and, 10 years later, added assistant athletic direc­tor to his duties. Regarded as one of the best in his field, Valdiserri has earned 43 awards since I976 from the College Sports Information Directors of America for his sports publications, many honored as the best in the nation. Valdiserri is also the current president of CoSIDA. 
Joe O'Brien-A 1949 graduate of Notre Dame, O'Brien is in his fourth year as associate athletic director after a seven-year stint as an assistant director. He also con­tinues to manage the department's finances as athletic business manager. In I955, O'Brien was named director of personnel func­tions at South Bend's second-largest employer -Notre Dame. He has been here ever since, joining the athletic staff in 1976. He served as president of the College Athletic Business Managers Association in 1983 and was named business manager of the year in 1983 by CABMA. 
Dr. Tom Kelly-As director of non-varsity athletics, Kelly oversees 12 club sports and 63 different in­tramural events. Kelly, who was named an assistant athletic director in 1983, received his masters degree in physical education from Penn ·State and his masters and Ph.D in Educational Administration from Notre Dame. He previously was NVA's assistant director for II years (until 1979) and varsity baseball coach from 1976 through the 1980 season. 
Brian Boulac -A former Notre Dame tight end, this I963 Univer­sity graduate was named assistant athletic director in 1983 following I3 seasons on the Irish football coaching staff. During that time, Boulac was recruiting coordinator for seven years, an administrative assistant to Dan Devine for two years, and a coach of the offensive and defensive lines, receivers and specialty teams over that span. Presently Boulac's job is to offer 
~~~~t~;;:~:~~~~~~~~;i~a~~~~~t~~ 
Mike Bobinski -Bobinski is something of a newcomer to the athletic department's administrative ranks, although certainly no stranger to Notre Dame sports. He was named ticket manager and assistant business manager in the spring of I984. The 28-year-old Bobinski is a 1979 Notre Dame graduate and a former Irish baseball pitcher who returned to South Bend after two years in manage­ment audit and participant accoun­ting with Disney World in Orlando, Fla. He earned two letters as a right­handed pitcher and was a four-year member of the Irish starting rotation. 
Mike DeCicco -Better known as coach of the highly-successful Notre Dame fencing team, DeCic­co doubles as academic advisor for all Notre Dame athletes. Respon­sibility for the Univetsity's high graduation rate among its athletes lies mostly with DeCicco, whose task is to advise more than 500 athletes at Notre Dame. A 1949 graduate of Notre Dame, DeCicco taught for a number of years in the University's mechanical engineer­ing department before giving up teaching to concentrate full-time on his job as academic advisor. His fen­cing teams have brought home an overall record of 480-'10 and won the national championship last spring as well as back-to-back titles in I977 and 1978. 

John Heisler -Now in his fifth year as associate director of sports information at Notre Dame after fo\lr years as assistant director, the 32-year-old Heisler has had a large hand in the editing of a number of award-winning publications. Ten have been judged "Best in the Na­tion" by College Sports Informa­tion Directors of America panels, including two of the last four foot­ball guides. Before coming to Notre Dame, the South Bend native had been an assistant director at Missouri for one year, after serving as a student assistant at that school for four years and then graduating from Missouri's School of Jour­nalism in I976. 
Jim Daves returns to Notre Dame to begin his first year as assistant sports information director. Daves, who was a graduate assistant in the Sports Information Department two years ago, will edit both foot­ball and basketball game programs as well as supervise press relations and publications for Notre Dame's non-revenue sports. The 25-year­old native of Greensboro, N.C., graduated from North Carolina­Charlotte in I984 and spent last year as the the director of com­munications for the Midwest Col­legiate Conference. 
Larry Gallo -Gallo, in his 
see FACES', page 13 

Attention Observer Sports Staff 
Organizational meeting for asst. sports editors and copy editors on Monday, Aug. 25, at 7 PM in the office. 
Organizational meeting for veteran sports writers on Thursday, Aug. 28, at 7:30PM in the office. 


USED FURNITURE ~ 
Sofas  Carpet  
Chairs  Desks  
Recliners.  Lamps  

and much much more 
Paul Gill's 2nd Edition 217 South Lafayette South Bend 46601 288-7425 
Hours: M-F 10-6 Sat 10-5 

Represt3ntatives from the Notre Dame Computer Store and •Apple Computer 
will be hosting a Computer Fair from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.mMonday, August 25th If you have already ordered your Macintosh computer ---Come to pick it up. For those of you who haven't ordered your Macintosh yet, Here's your opportunity to purchase one at a special price. 
[E i~ h~~ ~ w~ "rJ, make sure you stop by to see how simple the Macintosh is to use by participating in a self-paced 5-minute demonstration. This will qualify you to win a1.?..:§1!.~-~-I..13Ji...K Touring Bike. Also, Macintosh bicycle caps will be_given away free to the first 500 people to enter. 
In fro~nt of the Computing Center/Math Building AugLJst 25th, Monday 
9:00 ~a.m. thru 5:00 p.m. Oper1 to All ! 

O~h~~ ~~~~~ w~~~ ~~~(Q) ~~ ~~~~~ ~w~y~ 
areas. ~..~._._._._._._._._._._._._~._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._.;._._._._._._._._._._._._._._.. 
---------------------~------~--------------------------------------~------------------~-­
The Observer Saturday, August 23, 1986 -page 13 
Johnson teamed up in the backfield to work with." and each broke off some good In the weeks to come the

Frosh 
gains. McShane ended the scrim­freshman football players will face 
continuedfrom page 16 
mage by breaking up a sweep and more adjustments as they begin to the day. It wasn't like we went out causing a fumble. After Thursday's deal with the pressures of being stu­and started bashing each other." practice Head Coach Lou Holtz was dent athletes and continue to assert
cfforeign 8turfj ProgramJ 
The end of the first day of full­optimistic about his new players. themselves on the field. gear practices was highlighted by a "As far as athletes, we can't 
UNIVERSITY Of NOTRE DAME 

freshman scrimmage which gave evaluate them yet," he said. 
the coaching staff their first real "They're a really nice group. They 
look at the newcomers. Banks and work well together, and they're fun 
INVITES YOU TO ATTEND 

Faces 
A GENERAL INFORMATION SESSION 
WHEN: SUNDAY, AUGUST 24, 1986 WHERE: ACC, ARENA, Sections 4/5/6 (Purple & Orange) TIME: 2:00 P.M. 

Immediately following the general presentation, individual sessions for each program will be held in the following locations: 
COORDINATOR  ROOM  
Angers,  France  Or. Louis McKenzie  Gate 10 Gym  
Cairo,  Egypt  Dr.  Nazih  Daher  Cl27  
Innsbruck  Dr.  Albert  Wimmer  Cl4  
Jerusalem  Dr.  Isabel  Charles  Cl24  
Maynooth, Ireland  
Saint Mary• s  ColleQe  Mrs.  Ellen  Pugh  Monogram  Room  B  
lltexico City,  Mexico  Dr.  Haria 01 ivera-Wi 11 iams  
Dr.  Mike  Keen  Monogram  Room C  
People'• Republic  
of China  
Sunaer Prograa  Dr'.  Dian Murray  Rolfs  Aquatic  
Center, Spectator  
Area  
a.:-, Italy  
saint Jlllary'. College  Dr.  Portia spanu  Gate  8  Gym  
Tokyo, Japan  Father Geor9e  Hinamiki,  SJ  Pl,  Rolfs  

Aquatic Center 

Poraer atudent participants will also be on hand to discuss their experience•, oUer coaunents, and answer questions. 
25% OFFDINNER 
FOR TWO 
(with this ad) 
Fine cuts of steaks, fresh seafood, tender veal and lamh, flaming desserts and other table­side preparations 
Monday-ThW'8day only, not valid with other diAcounl8, expire• Sept. 30, 1986 
112 West Colfax Downtown South Bend • 233-8711 
We knew rou couldrit stav awav. 
That you spei1t all summer thinking about organic chemistry and Kafka. 
Thats why we're stocked up with a 
full selection of all members of the Apple~ 
~lacintosh"' personal computer family. 
Because whatever you're going to be doing in school this year, theres a Macintosh that can help you do it better. 
From the enhanced Macintosh 512K to the Macintosh Plus. students evenwhere have leamed that working smarter'and doing better in school can be as easy as pointing and clicking. 
And one of our people will be happy to show you the Macintosh system thats best 
suited to your needs and budget. So welcome back. Its been a long, lonelr summer. 

University of Notre Dame faculty, staff and students For further information, inquire at the Computing Center. can buy Macintosh computers at discounted prices Room 25 9:00-5:00 M-F from the Notre Dame Computer Store. Phone 239~7477 
•f:; I'JX6 .f¥!/e r.il!nfJIIM: Inc. :l/¥'1<' and tiJ<•,.lpple lr!f,~' 111'!' n'l(i<ltml lrrll!Rmarl..." '{f¥'1'· r.illllfJ/11<?: Inc. .1/acintr;J,, i,· a trtlll<~nm'k o(llclnf(J,~b L<iborator~t~·atUI i~ 
continued/rom page 12 
seventh year as head coach of the Notre Dame baseball team, begins his second year as chairman of the department of physical education. Gallo received undergraduate and graduate degrees from the Univer­sity of Rhode Island before coming to Notre Dame as a physical educa­tion teacher in 1979. Galio was named head coach of the Irish baseball squad in 1981 and now also works with Gene Corrigan and Dean Emil T. Hofman of the Freshman Year of Studies to coor­dinate the freshman physical educa­tion program: 
Dennis Stark -After 2 7 years as the head coach of Notre Dame's men's and women's swim teams, Stark resigned his duties in the spring of 1985 to assume the posi­tion of director of aquatics for Notre Dame's new pool on the east side of the ACC, which opened last fall. Stark, a graduate of Notre Dame, had been the only coach of the men's swim team since it was granted varsity status in 1958, and he compiled a 1 7 4-13 7-1 record during that period. He continues to teach swimming for the physical education department while coor­dinating all activities in the new swimming facility. 

Baseball Meeting 

Anyone interested in trying out for the Fighting Irish baseball team should attend an organizational meeting: 
Thurs., Aug. 28 
7 p.m. 

Football Auditorium 
ACC Bring a pen or pencil 
ForSale • 
Sofa $75 Swivel Chair $45 Easy Chair $45 Desk&Chair $45 Dresser w I Mirror $75 Microwave $75 Carpet $25 Desk lamp $5 Bookcase $15 Full set of '85 
• Encyclopedias $35 Dishes, Cookware, 
.. 
misc. items 

Call Mrs. Borsch: 
232..0406 

: •
•


~==============~h';'~~~~~~~~,r~fn~n;~';~~~v~m~~~··t;~~~~~~~~w~'''=============================================·============================~'•••••••••••••••••••••••• 
-----~--­

The Observer Saturday, August 23, 1986 -page 14 



Sports facilities offE~r diversion from classes 
Athletic &: Convocation Stepan Center -Stepan Center Center -The double-domed ACC, and its adjoining fields and outdoor located east of the Stadium, con­basketball courts are located in the tains more area than the Houston northeast corner of the campus. Astrodome. The South Dome Outside of the domed Center, one houses the basketball arena used by can play basketball, football, soc­both men's and women's varsity cer, rugby and softball. The basket­teams. The North Dome is used by ball courts, which can be turned the hockey, tennis and track teams, ·into an ice rink in the winter, are among others. Within the structure outfitted with lights that allow are handball, racquetball, squash, students to play basketball late in­basketball, tennis and volleyball to the night. Within Stepan Center courts that usually are open to the are basketball and volleyball courts, public. Reservations are required· open for recreational and league for most of the courts. One may play. also take advantage of the ice rink, boxing room and running track. 
The Rolf's Natatorium~ Com­pleted last year, this Olympic-sized pool is located at the east end of the 
~CARPET REMNANT SALE 
Athletic & Convocation Center. The pool has the capability of be­ing divided into three sections. This allows diving in one end, recrea­tional swimming in the middle and 
10 -H. OFF
water polo in the other end. The pool, which measures 50 meters in length and 25 yards wide, also in­cludes a diving area with three one­meter boards and two three-meter 
EVERY CARPET REMNANT IN
boards. Angela Athletic Facility ­
STOICK

Located north of the Cushwa­Leighton Library on the Saint 
Over 500 Remnants To Choose From
Mary's campus, Angela includes a track, basketball, volleyball, rac­quetball and indoor tennis courts. Weight machines, fitness and gym­nastic equipment also are housed in the facility. In addition, there are 
With 1 0" Off ...Examples
tennis and basketball courts outside the building. The facility is open to all Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students upon the presentation of 
·12'x6 :-,49.00
a student ID. Reservations are need­ed for the racquetball courts. 
Burke Memorial GolfCourse 

-On the west end of campus is the 
$69.00 
I8-hole, 6,500-yard University golf cou~se. The course is open until late fall and reopens in early spring. Green fees are S3 for students, 

Prior Soles Excluded
$99.00 
faculty and staff. Rockne Memorial Building ­
Sole Ends 9-7-86 

Located at the west end of South Quad, "The Rock" is the center for 
On Ironwood Just South of Lincolnwoy 
the physical education program. The brick structure contains basket­
MON. 8:30-1130 

OUR 32nd YEAR 

ball courts, handball-racquetball 
TUES. 1:30-6100 

courts, a weight room, a light ap­
WEDS. 1:30-6:00 THURS-3:30-1:30 FRI. 8:30-8:30

paratus room, a swimming pool 
and the golf pro shop. Use of the 






FLOOR CENTER 
SAT. 8:30-5:30

Rockne Memorial is free to all 
402 SOUTH IRONWOOD, MISHAWAKA SUN. 1:00-5:30 
students and faculty members upon 

PHONE: 259-5638 CLOSED SUIIAYl
presentation of a University iden­
.IUIIE-JULY-AINIUST 

, CIRP£T • Ylll'lt r •:t[ 'C£R&rl'l:~ c WO"~ • t'"•' IIUCS
tification card. Closing time is II 
p.m. daily. 





~ 
BOre 


THE AIR FORCE HAS A LOT TO OFFER 
IT ADDS UP TO OPPORTUNITY 
Air Force ROTC is the first step toward your future. While you're in college AFROTC means leadership training, tui­tion assistance, and $100 a month in living expenses. After college, AFROTC can mean a commission as an Air-Force officer with the pride, responsibility and experi­ence that are part& of our great way of life. You'll be on the fast track toward the goals you've set for your future. Check out Air Force ROTC. Two-, three-and four-year scholarship programs are available in your area. For your nation and yourself, find out more about Air Force ROTC. Contact: 
CONTACT: Capt Samuel S. Gaglio 239-6634/6635 

Gotewoy too greot way of lefe. 





-------~----~--------------~------------------------~----~-------.... 





~~~C3L~----------------------------------------sa_t_u_rd_a_y_,_A_u_gu_s_t_2_3,_1_9_8_6___
P_ag_e_I_5 


Bloom County 
ISN'T TH/5 1H€ !J!Fmi~Y or 8f?!TII!N5 
f,./m& f'/(/fo/C£, WIU.IAM ''7H6  50 1 I  
7CKK//!U?  
\  


Doonesbury 
The Daily Crossword 

ACROSS 1 Puppeteer Bil 6 Panorama 
10 Rugged rock 14 Quiver insert 15 Early Peruvian 16 Patriot Nathan 17 Port-au-Prince 
site 18 Parade leader 20 Kind of ballot 
or landlord 22 Pontius­23 Somewhat: suff. t-::--t---+---t-­
24-gratias  
25 Scrap  
26 Guido's note  
27 Point  
28 Phoenician god  
32 Aussie weapon  
36 Flirty look  
37 Van Gogh city  
38 Chang's twin  
39 Actress  
Valentine  
40 Hideout  
41 Belittle  
43 Racing track 1986 Tribune Media Semces. Inc.  
All Rights Reserved44 Tiny  
45 Plus  
46 Humbug partners  7 Concerning 8 Old Fr. coin  Today's Solution  
48 Lively dance  9 Pocahontas'  
49 Mus. deg.  wealth  
52 Madrid missus  10 Slate  
55 Alaskan dog  11 Punjab prince  
57 Garment place  12 Thanks -1  
59 Countrified  13 Actor Richard  
60 Addict  19 Andy Gump's  
61 Sheet of Ice  wife  
62 Actor Davis  21 Salty drop  
63 Pinochle score  25 "Maggie and  - 
64 Puts down in  26 Manicure item  
cards  27 Broadway show  
65 Midwest  29 Indian city  
airport  30 Shake -1  
31 Unaspirated  
DOWN  32 "­ Ha'i"  
1 Certain  33 Arab port  
adherent  34 Reeky old  
2 Palestinians  style  
3 Dubliners  35 Malaria  47 Clumsy boat  52 Pond coating  
4 Learning  carrier  48 Thurber or  53 Other  
method  39 Aussie animal  Agee  54 Carol  
5 Diminishes  42 Bucket  49 Sac  55 Debatable  
6 Audio's  44 Docking  50 Step  56 Husky command  
partner  platforms  51 Donnybrook  58 Violinist Bull  

Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
Garry Trudeau 

Their reunion was both brief and awkward -each still bearing the wounds from that ugly "Jane incident." 
The Observer welcomes the Class of 1990 
CONGRATULATIONS! 

laundryAND DRY CLEANING CHANGE HOURS St. Michaels Laundry and Dry Cleaning departments have increased their business hours for the 1986-87 school year. Beginning Monday. 25August 1986. the Office 
(Door 1 ), student bundle pick-up (Door 3). and the dry cleaning facility (Door 6) will be open from 7:30A.M. to 4:30P.M. Monday through Friday. 
-;:::::::;­


Show ND or SMC student or staff ID and get a 10% discount 
will be distributed at Stepan Mall 
180e1 State Ra.d 23

August 27-28. 
Near Ironwood 

ARMIDA KOBEK South Bend, Indiana 48837. (219) 277-2870 
...
---~~---------------~---~---------------------·-----------------­

lamt:' Carroll 
Scrimmages such as that above signal the beginning noting that improvement is still necessary, Coach of the 1986 Notre Dame football season. Although Holtz says he is pleased with the team's progress. 
Holtz pleased with fall scrimmage 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN 
Sports Editor 
One of the comments heard most often along the sidelines at practice this week has been "I can't believe it's football season already." But with the season opener with Michigan less than a month away, the 1986 edition of the Notre Dame football team has gotten into full swing. 
Upperclassmen reported Fri­day, August 15, to receive physicals .and equipment and after Picture Day last Saturday, began three days of practice without pads the following Monday. Thursday, the Irish began two-a-day practices in full pads. 
As is usual in the first days of practice, the defense appeared to be a Iitle ahead of the offense in the first scrimmages. Timings on pass patterns and the center exchange were off. Yet despite the miscues, Irish head coach Lou Holtz was pleased with his squad's early showing. 
"We can't do any more as far as effort and intensity," Holtz commented after Thursday's drills. "You can't tell that we're getting there -and we've got a way to go -but we're getting there. 
"No matter how much filtn you look at in the summer, you've still got more to work on in the fall. " 
One thing that was im­mediately evident was the discipline that has be instilled on the field. There were more "yes sirs" and "no sirs" heard on the field than one hears at a boot camp. 

So far in this early season, in­juries haven't been much of a factor with the exceptions of senior offensive tackle Pete Rokich and senior tailback Hiawatha Fransisco. Rokich suf­fered a herniated disc while lif­ting weights and was scheduled to undergo back surgery yester­day morning. As of then, it was too early to tell how long Rokich would be unable to play. Fran­sisco has yet to take part in any action because of continuing problems with his arthritic knees. 
Defensive backs George Streeter, Mike Haywood and Steve Lawrence all sat out Thurs­day's action because of various minor muscle pulls. 
Saturday, August 23, 1986 -page 16 

Frosh football players prepare for college ball during fall practices 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN 
Sports Editor 

Life at Notre Dame began early for a select group of the class of 1990, the freshman football players. For this group, they faced more of an adjustment than just being away from home. On August 10, the newest members of the Irish squad reported to Notre Dame and when they did, they were no longer the high schools stars that they had once been. 
Instead of being the biggest, fastest or strongest players on their respective teams, now they were just one of many players of equal ability. They now had to start over to prove themselves to their coaches and teammates. 
"On your high school team, you're the man. Here, everybody's an all-American," said Kevin McShane, a 6-3, 218 lb. outside linebacker from Joliet, Ill. "Now you have to rely on technique and what the coaches are telling you rather than God-given talent." 
After the first meal on the 1Oth, the players underwent physicals and then began a series of daily meetings that left them little time to themselves. 
"The schedule was kind of crowded," said Braxston Banks, a 6-2, 205lb. fullback from Hayward, Calif. "There wasn't much time bet­ween meetings, and we're used to relaxing and doing what we want to do. There just wasn't much time. But it's something you have to overcome and get through -no pain, no gain." 
After the veterans reported last Sunday, the freshmen and the rest of the team began working out without equipment for three days, which left the freshmen wondering about what it was going to be like when they started mixing it up with players the size of 6-9, 274lb. Wal­ly Kleine or 6-7, 243 lb. Tom Rehder when contact drills began Thursday. 
''There was a big question mark in every freshman's mind," said An­thony johnson, a 6-1, 220 lb. run­ning back from South Bend. "After a while I really wanted to hit. Once we started banging, it was kind of a relief.'' 
"The night before pads, everybody was a little uptight," echoed McShane. "The next mor­ning, no one was talking. They were all thinking about what it was going to be like. The coaches do a really good job. They start out easy and let everybody progress through 
see FROSH, page 13 


A guide to the people behind ND athletics 
Rev. Edmund P.joyce, C.S.C. -A I 93 7 Notre Dame graduate, Fr. Joyce was named executive vice president of the University in 1952, three years after his ordination. As chairman of the faculty board in control of athletics, Joyce always has maintained, "First things come first, and the first things for us are academics. I tell every squad of athletes that when the students return to campus each fall." In his 34 years at Notre Dame, Joyce has watched as Notre Dame has built one of the nation's most successful records in intercollegiate athletics, while at the same time maintaining one of highest graduation rates among its athletes. 
Gene Corrigan -Since suc­ceeding the legendary Moose Krause as athletic director in 1981, Corrigan has made his presence felt both at Notre Dame and on the na­tional level. In addition to being a member of the NCAA Division I basketball committee and the 'NCAA Council, Corrigan also has been instrumental in the dealings of the College Football Association 
(CFA) with both the NCAA and the television networks. Corrigan was a driving force in the organization and planning of Notre Dame's first­ever athletic endowment fund, designed to increase opportunities for Notre Dame students at all levels of competition. He also is credited with the introduction of two new varsity sports -lacrosse and women's swimming-in his first full year as athletic director. Additional­ly, women's cross country made the jump to varsity status this year. Before coming to Notre Dame, Cor­rigan served for nine years as direc­tor of athletic programs at the University of Virginia. 
Dr. jo-Ann Nester-Nester is in her third year as Director of Athletics and Recreation at Saint Mary's College. In her first col­legiate athletic administrative posi­tion, some of Nester's accomplish­ments include organizing Saint Mary's first student-run athletic council and bringing in four highly­touted coaches to the Saint Mary's 
see PEOPLE, page ll 

---------!!!!11~...·----~-------------------------------.,


I SUBSCRIBE NOW! I I ~ObsenB I
I It Only Makes Sense that a newspaper published by 1 I students is the best source of sports and news at Notre Dame. 1 I Join the more lhan 12,000 reader-; who kct·p up to date on 1\otre Uame and the II Fightin' Irish through Tbe Observer. We go be) und an~· uther new;;JJaper 10 gh"e ~·ou 11 a comprehensive picture ot the !'iotre Dame community. I 
1 Make checks payable to: The Observer 1 
and mail to: P 0 Boll Q Narr.e__________________ Notre Dame. IN 46556 I I ~§J".:};':':.t:~:~ ~ D Enclosed is $40 for one academic year. Address I I
L--t!!~_.JJ_=:-:.:~=.:~::=:~----:______,::___: __.J 








