
Rebels -page 10 


Deficit-reduction law triggers federal spending cutbacks 
heads to look for other ways to make the required reductions -including cutting down on travel expenses and not filling vacancies. 
"The administration's firm posi· tion is that we're goingto meet these challenges in a way that minimizes disruptions," Miller t:>ld a news con­ference. 
The cuts were set in motion by the issuance ofa joint report by Mil­ler's Office of Management and Budget and the Congressional Budget Office projecting that the fis­cal I986 deficit would soar to S220.5 billion -S8.6 billion above last year's record flow offederal red ink. 
Miller said he doubted these cut­backs -amounting to 4.3 percent for domestic programs and 4.9 percent for the military on March I -would result in widespread disruptions or anything "like closing the Was­hington Monument or draining the Tidal Basin" here. 

But other administration officials said there would be "furloughs" at some agencies, that S<lme workers might be encouraged to take early retirements and that a plan was being studied for reduced hours In national parks. 
"1 think it's going to be weeks, if not months, before agencies Jmow for sure the ultimate effect on per­sonnel," said Constance Horner, director of the Office of Personnel Management. 
Shultz urges military retaliation 
WAStllNGTON The United States rlsk.'i having "a policy of paraJy:ois" ur les.' it is willing to take both open and covert military action against nations that support ter­rorism, Secretary of State George P. Shultz said yesterday. 
"We cannot let the ambiguities of the terrorist threat reduce us to total impotence," Shultz said in a speech 
dotted  with  references  to  Ubyan  
leader  Moammar  Khadafy.  The  
United  States  must  have  "the  

stomach," even when results are slow, to keep up the pressure against state-sponsored terrorism, he said. 
Otherwise:, "it would amount to an admis.o;ion that, with all our weaponry and power, we are help­lc:Sii to defend our citizens, our inter­ests, and our values; this I simply do not accept," he said. 
Shultz, one of the Reagan ad­ministration's strongest advocates of using military power against ter­rorism, made the remark.o; in a speech to the Pentagon-sponsored "Conference on l.ow·lntensity Warfare," at which Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger spoke Tuesday night. 
Weinberger has stressed the im­portance ofwaiting for an absolutely clear terrorist target and approach­ing military steps with caution · notably against well-armed nations like libya. 
But Shultz said, "It must be clearly and unequivocally the policy of the United States to light back." The United States should not always withhold such action until situations develop "with certainty and clarity," he said. 
Shultz's words were aimed not only at Ubya, but at Nicaragua, where rebels aided by the Reagan administration are trying to over­throw the Sandinista government. 
The administration is reportedly preparing to ask Congress for bet­ween S30 million and Sl 00 million in covert aid to the rebels, and Shultz said "covert action is not an end in itseU, but it should have a place in foreign policy." 
Early yesterday, the American aircraft carrier Saratoga moved into the Mediterranean Sea, joining the carrier Coral Sea In the region two days after libyan jets intercepted a Navy surveillance plane in interna­tional airspace and brietly shadowed it. 
Although the Libyan fighters -two Soviet-made MiG·25s -made no threatening moves toward the Navy plane, two U.S. f·A-I8 jet fighters were scrambled from the carrier Coral Sea to intercede if necessary. 
Shultz, in a satellite-hookup news conference with reporters in Europe, declined to discuss specific military moves, but said "as condi­tions become a little more tense we want to be sure we have adequate force on hand." 
Asked how joining the sanctions would affect Western Europe's need for Ubyan petroleum, Shultz said, "The world is awash in oil. You aren't dependent on Ubya for oil, you can get it in a lot ofplaces." 

Rockne Memorial 'legend' dies after 27 years of service 
By PATRICK CREADON 
StaffReporter 
Edward G. Kazmierczak, 54, 
died Dec. 3I in his home of 
natural causes. Edward, or "Big 
Ed" as students and friends called 
him, was the supervisor of the 
Rockne Memorial since 1958. 
"Ed was a legend in his own time," said Steven Cermak, an as­sistant to Kazmierczak. "For the past 27 years, every freshman had to go through Ed in order to earn their P.E. credits. He really loved the students." 
"Ed ran everything at the Rock," Cermak said. "I don't know how they are going to replace him. It will probably take several people to actually take over his job since he put so much ofhis own time into his work. He often put in 12 to I6 hours a day when actually he was only get­ting paid for 8 hours of work. He really loved his job." 
Cermak recalled an incident in which Roclme Memorial was · much more than just a work place for Kazmierczak. "In the winter of'77·'78, South Bc:nd was hit by a blizzard while classes were in session. Rather than shut­ting down the Rock, Ed actually lived in the Rock for almost the entire week. We brought him food from the South Dining Hall and he slept in the gymnastics room." 
Kazmierczak was born in South Bend in I93I and was a lifelong area resident. He at­tended Saint Joseph's High School. At the age of 27, he started working at Roclme Memorial. 
A Mass will be celebrated in his memory by Father Andre Leveille tomorrow at 5: I 5 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. 


The Observer Thursday,january 16, 1986-page 2 

In Brief 
A proposal to expandobligationsofindependent auditors, first unveiled by a senior partner of the Price Waterhouse account· ing firm during a Dec. 10 Notre Dame lecture, is receiving major attention from executives across the nation and has been described in their Bureau of National Affairs newsletter as the "Notre Dame proposal." Joseph Connor, senior partner in the New York office of the "Big Eight" accounting firm, formally unveiled his firm's proposal that "independent auditors would have to evaluate a client's financial condition as well as its financial position and would have to identify symptoms within a company's business environ­ment that would indicate a higher risk of management fra~d." ·The Observer 
Snite Museum officials have received a collection of drawings which have been described as the "most significant group of drawings ever presented to the University of Notre Dame." The collection ofOld Master through 19th century drawings represents works of several noted Italian and French artists. Jack Reilly, who received degrees at Notre Dame in 1963 and 1964, acquired the collection which was formed by the lateJohn Minor Wisdom. It is on a long-term loan as a promised gift and is being prepared for a fall exhibit. -The Observer 
Jon Olan.sen, junior aerospace engineering major at Notre Dame, has assumed commandofthe Air Force Reserve Officer Training Program cadet corps for the spring semester. Olansen's responsibilities as corps commander include the planning and operation of all corps activities. In addition, he will be responsible for the professional conduct ofall corps members. · The Observer 
Daniel Costello, professor ofelectrical engineering at Notre Dame, has been elected a fellow of the Institute ofElectrical and Electronics Engineers. Costello joined the Notre Dame faculty this fall after 16 yearsofteaching and research at the lliinois Institute of Technology. He received master's and doctoral degrees from Notre Dame and was visiting professor at the University two years ago. His research specialty is in digital communications. · The Obser­ver 
Dorm Collections forKevinHurieyraised S2,528.20. The check was sent to the Kevin Hurley Trust Fund on Dec. 13 by Notre Dame Student Body President Bill Healy. ·The Observer 
Of Interest 
Open auditions for Shakespeare's "The Tempest" will be held by appointment tomorrow and Saturday in Washington Hall. Notre Dame's department of communications and theatre is spon­soring the performances. Audition slots may be reserved by calling 239-5134, and participants are asked to prepare a two-minute selec­tion from the play for judging. · The Observer 

Weather 
Not quite frisbee weather, but a bit warmer and sunny today with the high in the low 40s. Increasing cloudiness tonight with a 30 percent chance oflight rain late. Low in the mid 30s. A 40 percent chance ofmorning showers tomorrow. Clearing in the afternoon with the high in the low 40s. 


Design Editor......................... Chris Bowler VIewpoint Layout................. Carol Brown Design Assistant............... Melissa Warnk<: Features Copy Editor................... Ed Nolan Typesetters ........................ Mack B. Johnson MaryJacoby 
B<:cky Gund<:rman Features Layout.................... Maria Groner Typlst .......................................... Coll<:<:n Foy ND Day Editor...................Sharon Emmit<: News Editor.............................Scott B<:arby SMC Day Editor.................... Priscilla Karle Copy Editor ................................ Tripp Baltz AdDesign ......................Jeanne Gramm<:ns Sports Copy Editor .......... Mlk<: Szymanski JimKram<:r VIewpoint Copy Editor....... Cindy Rauck· Photographer ..................... Hannes Hacker horst 
lb<: Observer ( l'SPS ~99 .Z·-4000) is publish<:d Monday through Friday el<cept during exam and vacation periods. TheObserver is published by the studentsofthe University of Noue Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for HO per year ( llO per semester) by writing lb<: Observer, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 
~6~~6. 
lbe Observer is a m<:mber of lbe Associated l'ftss. All reproduction rights are 
resr"Vrd. 


Lawful, not violent actions are the way to fight terrorists 
It's an ordinary, busy day, just like any other. People wait patiently in lines, parents trying to quiet their cranky children. Others hurry by, anxious to get quickly to wherever they are going. Families and friends greet each other or wave goodbye. 
Suddenly the busy peacefulness is shattered bya blast of machine gun fire. There is a confused scramble, and suddenly the hotel, or airport terminal, or shopping mall, has been transformed into a scene of bloody bodies lying in contorted postures, screams and cries coming from the injured, and faces white with shock and fear. 
As. horrific as this scenario is, it has become one so frequent it scarcely raises an eyebrow any longer. Ter­rorism is here, and it shows no signs of going away. In fact, its reality is more apparent than ever as 1985 was a record year for terrorist activity, with hundreds falling victim to the fanatics ofviolence. 
No person, no matter how helpless, seemed exempt, as the deaths of wheelchair-bound Leon Klinghoffer and It-year-old Natasha Simpson showed. No place, whether on land, in the air, or even on the high seas was off limits. The ugly spectre of terrorism is creeping closer than ever before, and it may be only a matter of time before New York and Chicago become just as likely terrorist targets as Rome, Vienna or Frankfurt. 
Even though terrorism has not yet really hit home for many Americans, it is beginning to arouse a deep-seated fear and a just-as­deep thirst for revenge in those who are most often its prime target. America is hardly ever as unified as it was in the burst of outrage when Klinghoffer was killed or when the hostages were taken in Iran. And few of Reagan's statements are as popular as "You can run but you can't hide." 
Terrorism strikes such a deep chordoffear because it is so unpredictable ·· you never have any idea when it is going to happen, or how, or to whom. You can never be exactly 100 percent sure that it will not strikeyou right where you are. Its perpetrators are just as unfat­homable, shadowy figures always hidden and usually a step away from those trying to catch them. 
But because of its growing boldness and increasing appeal as a convenient way to buy publicity, terrorism has become one ofthe most serious problems the world faces today. 
It has become impossible to ignore. And it seems just as impossible to escape. We can cancel our trips to Europe, we can avoid 

'"'March of Dimes 
~ illllliliiBIRTH DEFECTS FOUNOATIONI-illil 
$20,000 Scholarships:
AValuable Scholarship.
AValuable Challenge. 
The two-year NROTC Scholarship Program offers you a two-year college scholarship that's worth' as much as $20,000 in tuition. And it offers you the challenge of becoming a Navy officer with early responsibilities and decision-making authority. 
During college, the Navy pays tuition, cost of textbooks, instructional fees, and an allowance of $100 a month for up to 20 months during your last two years of college. Upon graduation and com~letion of requirements, you are commissioned a Navy officer. 
Call your Navy representative for more information on this challenging program. 
Stop by the NROTC building on the Notre Dame campus, 
or dial 239-7274/6442 and ask for LT Wachtl. 

Navy Officers Get Responsibility Fast. 



Mary Healy 
Accent Editor 
flying, we can beefup security until traveling becomes a major hassle. We can eventually shut ourselves indoors and not risking going anywhere. But that won't solve the problem. 
Retaliation is no better a solution in the long run. Is­rael's stance, as expressed in the words of Prime Mini­sterShimon Peres, "Whoeverinjures us, we will injure," has gotten it nowhere except into an escalatingcycle of revenge ·· two eyes for an eye, 150 dead bodies for 100 dead bodies. 
What's left? Giving in to the demands ofthe cowards who kill innocent people?

Go ahead... That would be the ultimate defeat. It seems to be a problem without an answer. 
But there's one thing we cannot do. We cannot stoop to the level ofbarbarians and let our appetite for revenge go wild. However furious we might be at Syria for aiding terrorists, bombing some nebulous target would only fuel their hostility and give somebody an excuse for hijacking another plane. However nettling the taunts of Moammar Khadafy may be, taking military action 

against Libya would only kill more innocent people and contribute a little more to the breakdown of civiliza­tion. And lead to more terrorism. 
Such hatred and indiscriminate violence can only be countered with level-headed sanctions and fair, lawful punishment whenever possible. Nations need to cooperate much more closely in leveling economic sanctions against those countries that support ter­rorism. The media should be much more low-key in its coverage of publicity-hungry terrorists and their ac­tivities. And the United States should think seriously about its policy of uncritically supporting one Middle Eastern country at the expense of many others. 
Those who kill others and lose their own lives to bringattention to a cause have some serious grievances. And they are not going to stop because people are hit­ting them back. They are not going to stop until they get an unmistakable message that that's not the way you play the game. 
---~--~--------------------­
The Observer Thursday,January 16, 1986-page 3 
Columbia landing scheduled early; 

College to offer 'roots' 
Specilll to the Obaerver

NASA tightens shuttle timetable 
SPACE CENTER, Houston Columbia's hardluck astronauts, 25 days late getting up, one day early coming down, and unable to meet all their scientific goals, stowed equipment yesterday to prepare for the shuttle's first Florida landing in nearly a year. 
The Sl 'W million flight was set to end after four days in orbit with a landing at 8:28 this morning at the Kennedy Space Center in Florida. 'lbe mission had been scheduled to last until tomorrow, but National Aeronautics and Space Administra­tion officials decided to end it early to avoid chancy weather tomorrow and on Saturday. 
With this morning's landing NASA will be able to keep to a tight schedule that calls for I 5 shuttle launches this year. That schedule al­ready has been affected by seven launch delays that kept Columbia on the ground 25 days past its original flight date of Dec. 18. 
The Kennedy landing is the first scheduled at the Florida space base since a landing there last Apri'I resulted In two blown tires and a damaged brake system. The problems resulted from the usc of differential braking to steer the shuttle on the concrete runway. 
Since then, a new nose wheel steering system has been installed and was tested in landings at Ed­wards Air force Base in California. 
One major experiment of the flight was planned for execution during the landing itself. An infrared camera mounted in the shuttle's tail was designed, to measure tem­peratures on top of Columbia while it burns through the atmosphere on its way back to Earth. 
Mission commander Robert Gib­son and his six crewmates spent most of yesterday packing equip­ment and turning off electronics to prepare for the landing. 
They talked briefly with Costa Rica president Luis Alberto Monge Alvarez. The call was In honor of astronaut franklin Chang-Diaz, a native of Costa Rica who Is the first Hispanic-America to tly In space. 
"Spiritual Roots," a series of reflections on works on, by or about women who have shaped the spiritual life of others, is a new program offered by Saint Mary's Center for Spirituality. 
The presentations will take place each Wednesday, Jan. 22 through April 16, from 12: I 5 to 
1:1 5 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge of Lc:Mans Hall. The public is welcome to attend any or all talks at no charge. 
following is the schedule of speak.ers and the works they have chosen: 
•Jan. 22: Rita Burns, "In Memory of Her" by Elizabeth Schussler fioenza 
•Jan. 
29: Ann Kimble Loux, "The Habit of Being" by Flannery O'Connor 

•feb. 
5: Paula McLean, "On Children and Death" by Elizabeth Kubler-Ross 

•
feb. 12: Gail Mandell, "Memento Mori" by Muriel Spark 

•
feb. 19: Sister francis Bernard, "Women, Ministry and the Church," by SisterJoan Chittister 

•Feb. 
26: Mary Feeley, "The Il­luminations" by Hildegard ofBin­gen 

•March 
5: Mary Elizabeth DePauw, "In A DUferent Voice" by Carol Gilligan 

•
March 12: Sister Regina Coll, "The Color Purple" by Alice Walker 




Dorm thefts over holidays not excessive 
By MARK PANKOWSKI 
AssistantNBWS Editor 
Beded-up security at Notre Dame 
resulted in fewer reported thefts on 
campus during Christmas break., ac­
cording to Director of Security Rex 
Rak.ow. 
There was only one report oftheft 
occurlng during the holidays at 
Notre Dame, compared to ap· 
proximately six to eight during the 
same period last year, Rak.ow said. 
In order to bolster campus 
security, uniformed officers were 
used this year instead of people 
hired temporarily as hall monitors, 
Rak.ow said. 
"We think that really made the dif­
ference," he said. 
like Notre Dame, there was only one report of theft occuring during the holidays at Saint Mary's, said Ric­hard Chlebek, director ofSafety and Security at Saint Mary's. 
Unlike Notre Dame, however, 
security at Saint Mary's remained un­
changed from last year, according to 
Chlebek, who said he couldn't recall 
any reported thefts during the 
Christmas break. last year. 
Both security departments had of­
ficers patrolling dorms and the 
campus grounds during the 
holidays. 

Eight persons per shift patrolled dorms at Notre Dame, Rak.ow said, and extra officers were added to patrol the grounds. At Saint Mary's, security officers periodically went through each dorm, checking to mak.e sure doors were locked, Chlebek said. 
The two holiday thefts reported at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's were similar in that the perpetrator in both Instances did not gain entrance: by break.ing in. 
In the case at Notre Dame, in which a stereo of unspecified value was reported stolen from a fourth­floor room in Cavanaugh Hall, someone is believed to have used a key to enter, Rak.ow said. 
No one has been apprehended in the crime, though Security Is working on several leads In the case, he said. 
In the theft at Saint Mary's, in which a typewriter valued at S300 was reported stolen from a study carrel in McCandless Hall, someone is suspected of either using a pass key or entering through an unlocked door, Chlebek said. 
Because the fifth-floor study car· rei's door was reportedly found locked, there Is a possibility the woman reporting the typewriter stolen was mistak.en, he said. 
"She can't recall that It (the typtWriter) was actually in there," said Chlebek. 
There are no suspects In the case and the Investigation is pending fur­ther developments, he said. 


------------------~---------~---­
The Observer 

Saint Mary's galleries set to exhibit contemporary artwork next week 
Special to the OIN!erftr 
Works of two contemporary ar­tists will be on display at Saint Mary's jan. 24 throught Feb. 21. Donald Furst's lithographs, intaglio prints, drawings and monotypes will be shown in Moreau Gallery; and Step­hen Lowery's constructions, pan­tings and drawings will be displayed in the little Theater Gallery. 
Furst's prints have been described as "serene, yet disquieting," and as having a "wispy, dream-like manner which goes beyond reality." His most recent works are a group of bedroom interiors created during a residency at the MacDowell Colony in New Hampshire. 
His work has been displayed in numerous one-man shows during the past few years, including at the College of William and Mary in Vir­ginia; State University of New York, Geneseo; Biola University, La Mirada, Ca.; and Fanny Garver Gallery, Madison, Wisconsin. 
Invitational exhibits have in­cluded the American Graphic Artists traveling exhibit in China; Architec· tural Images, World Print Council, San Francisco; and University ofDal­las Print Invitational, tour of Scot­land and England. 
Furst's prints have won over 30 awards in juried shows, including American Drawings III, a Smith­sonian traveling exhibit; Prints U.S.A, Pratt Graphics Center, New York; and the Print Club of Philadel­phia International Exhbition. 
Currently a member of the art department at the University of North Carolina at Wilmington, Furst received his M.F.A. degree in printmaking with Mauricio Lasansky at the University of Iowa. 
Lowery's work portrays ~tc: urban landscape, primarily through the use of the images of faces and cars. Through his painted constructions, pencil or ink drawings or paintings, his figures interact with and against man-made environments. His silent screaming contortions elicit an amused yet uneasy response from the viewer. 
He has shown his work at Kankakee Community College; Prairie State College; The Beverly Art Center in Chicago; The Contem­porary Art Workshop; and The Hub­bard Gallery in Chicago. The 

PRICES GOOD THRU 1-18-86 
99 
CASE 
-BUDWEISER KEG 

.fll 53599 I 
I  
200 N. MAIN ELKHART 295-6310  UNIVERSITY CENTER MISHAWAKA 277·7176  254 DIXIEWAY NORTH ROSELAND 272-2522  1621 SOUTH BEND AVE. SOUTH BEND 233-4603  
1910 LINCOLNWAY EAST SOUTH BEND 233-8430  BELLEVILLE SHOPPING CENTER SOUTH BEND 233-8936  2934 E. McKINLEY SOUTH BEND 233·9466  

Exhibition by Artists ofChicago and Vicinity; the Rutgers University Na­tional Drawing Exhibition; the Mid· America Biennial in Owensboro, Ky.; the Great Lakes Regional in Cleveland; the Hoyt National Paint· ing Show in New Castle, Penn.; and Michiana Regional are a few of the juried exhibitions in which he has participated. 
Born in Muncie, Ind., in 1943, Lowery received his B.F.A. degree from Herron School of Art and his 
M.F.A from Tulane University. He currently teaches at Aurora (Ill.) University. 
The exhibits are open to the public at no charge. The public is also welcome to attend an opening reception from 7 to 9 p.m. tomor­row in the little Theater Gallery. Lowery will give a public lecture at 
10:30 a.m. Saturday in Room 232 Moreau Hall. 
Gallery hours are Monday through Friday, 9:30 a.m. to noon, and 1 to 3 p.m.; and Sunday, 1 to 3 p.m. 
Thursday,January 16, 1986-page 4 

The <>Mcrver/Hanna Hocur

Justa trim? 

Barber "ROTC" joe Diangelo is likely to keep his scissors busy withROTCstudents who have let theirhairdown overthe holidays. Diangelo is shown with a full schedule ofclients over the nextfew days. 
The Observer Thursday,January 16, 1986-page 5 


King remembered by the country during commemoration of holiday 

Senior Dave Cox smiles after purchasing books for the new semester. Cox is one of many wbo survived the biannual book­buying rampage at the Notre Dame Bookstore. 

Money 
continuedfrom page 1 
benefactor for Phase Ill of the Notre Dame: Study ofParish Life conducted by the Institute for Pastoral and So­cial Ministry. 
•Sl2,500 
from the Lilly Endow· ment, Inc. for the Notre Dame Study of Parish Ufe. 

•$11,53~ 
from Michigan State Uni­versity for an analysis of values in agricultural research agendas by Christopher Hamlin, assistant professor ofhistory. 

• 
$8,000 from the National Aeronautics and Space: Administra­tion for the: materials development ofelectrical contacts for beta-silicon. by Mary Zeller, engineering profes­sional specialist, and William Berry, professor ofelectrical engineering. 

• 
$8,000 from the National Science Foundation as a supplement to a Presidential Young Investigator award to Jeffrey Kantor, assistant professor ofchemical engineering. 

• 
$6,900 from the Occidental Chemical Corp. for a study of TCDD blogradatlon by Charles Kulpa, a.'l· soclatc: professor of biological sciences. 

• 
$4,000 from the South Bend Country Club for research on the ar­chitectural design of American country clubs. 

• 
$3,000 from the Mennonite Foundation Inc. for a study of church agricultural programs In Zaire by Mutombo Mpanya, visiting fellow ofthe Kellogg Institute for In­ternational Studies. 



Awards for instructional programs consisted of a $'51,~00 grant from Apple Computer Inc. 

:1 CALL DAYS, EVENINGS I WEEKENDS 1717 E Soulh Bene! Ave Soulh Bene!, Indiana 48637 
'Ibe Reverend Martin Luther King Jr. wa.."i honored on his '57th birthday Wednesday by schoolchildren and politicians, ministers and celebrities, who remembered the slain civil rights leader in ceremonies from his home state of Georgia to Hawaii. 
South African Bishop Desmond Tutu, who, like King, won a Nobel Peace Prize: for his efforts to end ra­cial Inequality, told about 1,500 people at a Phlladephia luncheon that "no one can ever be truly free unless all are free." 
"Thank God for Martin, thank God he was a giant among women and men, thank God for his vision, thank God for his moral and physical courage. He laid down his life for his friends," said Tutu, who Is fighting to end apartheid In South Africa. 
The: federal government has designated Jan. 20 as a national holiday to commemorate King, who wa.."i shot to death April 4, 1968, as he stood on the: balcony of a Memphis, Tenn., motel. 
"This Is the seventh year in Pen­nsylvania that we've: celebrated this holiday and every year It gets stronger," Lieutenant Governor Wil­liam Scranton told Tutu. "The dream of freedom can become reality, and it will come true for South Africa." 
In Atlanta, Coretta Scott King joined most ofGeorgia's top state of­ficials at the state Capitol to unveil a plaque commemorating the first King national holiday. The festivities began with the Morehouse College Glee Club singing "Happy Birthday Dr. King." 
Mrs. King called on residents of her late husband's home state to celebrate King's life: by honoring his dream of a "spirit of brotherhood and cooperation In the nation." 
AJso.Jn Atlanta, the Reverend Jesse Jackson accused Reagan of grabbing the spotlight on King's birthday and contributing to a distorted image of his legacy. 
Speaking from the pulpit of the Ebenezer Baptist Church, King's church, Jackson said Reagan was "the same man who didn't support the boycott in Montgomery -he was old enough. The same man who didn't support the sit-ins in Greensboro -he was old enough. The same man, he didn't support the freedom riders. The same man, 
Look us up in The 100 Best .;; Companies to Work for in · · America. You'll read that Steelcase "...has an extraor~ dinary dedication to turning 
out quality products-and a;Jff'. ~j~~7~
by~product of that dedlcation·:Jl .:11 is an iron determination to do right by its people ..." 
Steelcase, The Office: 
didn't support the march from Selma to Montgomery. Same man, per­sonally implied Dr. King was a com­munist." 
Louisiana Governor Edwin Edwards told black leaders at a Capitol gathering that the holiday honoring King "is a time for every state In our great nation to renew Its commitment to achieve positive so­cial change through the use of non­violent means." 
Virginia state Senator Benjamin J. Lambert Ill said in a speech In Rich­mond that "King set an excellent ex­ample for this nation and this world." 
In Los Angeles, Helsman Trophy­winning ha!Jback Mike Garrett wept as he spoke at a breakfast, recalling how he met King at a University of Southern California rally in 1963 and was swept up Into the civil rights movement. 
ln Hawaii, there was a wreath­laying ceremony at National Memorial Cemetery of the Pacific featuring a joint military service color guard, gospel singing, band music and speakers. King's writings were read during a ceremony In the Pearl Harbor Naval Station Chapel. 
____________________________________________________________________________________. 
The Observer Thursday, january 16, 1986-page 6 

Dentists take measures to avoid AIDS virus 
made among civilian agencies, there 
won't be any in the military. That's because ofa presidential decision to shield them from the cutbacks entirely. 
Social Security payments also are exempted from the cutbacks, while Medicare and other health-care programs face reductions of only 1 percent. But few other federal programs were spared from the budget knife. 
Among the cuts outlined on yes­terday in the OMB-CBO report was a 5142.5 million reduction in revenue sharing funds for local governments. 
Mass transit systems around the country likely will see their federal subsidies reduced. The Urban Mass Transportation Administration's budget of H.7 billion will be cut by 
4.3 percent, officials said. 
Bonnie Whyte, the agency's spokeswoman, said it has yet to be determined how the cuts will be dis­tributed, but that most of the 5159 million reduction will mean cuts in money for transit operation or con­
struction. 
Prints 
and Slides 
from the 

same roll 
Kodak MP film ... Eastman Kodak's prof...oonal color motion picture (MP) 6lm now adapted,for still.,.. in 35mm cametu by Seattle FilmWorb. llll micro-fine grain and rich color oaturalion meet the exactint! IIWldards ofthe movie industry. Shoot in low or brighr light from ZOO ASA up to 1200 ASA. Get prinlll or slides, or both, from the same roU. Enjoy the vety latest in photographic technology with aubotantial 11avinp. 
INI'ROOUCTORY OFFER 
0 Rush me two 20-expooure rolls of your leading KODAK MP 61m­Kodak5247• (200ASA). Enclosed is $2.00.1'd like 10 be able to get color prints or slides (orboth) from the ...,.. roU and experience the renwbble venatility ofthU profeooional quality 6lm. 
NAME_______________ 
ADD~------------­
CITY______________ 
STATE nP______
LilollfiiZ ...,.,.__ 
Mall to:-FllmWorlu 
P.O. BoxC.J40'6 Saale,WA98114 
llt9&f SeMrW fllmWorb 
~Sl4711·~~ 
ollht &.-n KocWr. c..on.-,. 

..C(JQowettg ~~ aQQ occasions~~ 
Comein and Browse 327 lincolnway 232-3354 


Welcome Back 
ND&SMC 
Students 
"Compare the Bottom Line" 
INDIANAPOUS -As part of the state's efforts to control the spread ofAIDS, dentists are being advised to wear protective clothing and parap­hernalia while performing even the most routine procedures. 
Dentists also are being advised to sterilize more of their equipment, especially handpieces to drills and other devices. 
"At this point, dentistry has a brand new look," said Doctor Victor 
H. Mercer, director of the State Board of Health's Division of Dental Health. 
Dentists are being told they should wear gloves, masks, protective eyewear and protective gowns to keep them from coming into contact with blood seepage that often accompanies dental procedures. 
"If you're cutting a tooth for fil­lings, there's usually blood," said Mercer. "And any sort of cleaning procedures -scaling, polishing ­there's usually at least a little blood in the mouth. 
"So, if you have a person who has the AIDS virus in his bloodstream, you could have an exposure problem. And the saliva itself, it has been shown, can carry the virus, as well," added Mercer. 
Health experts have Said there ap­pears to be little risk to 'dentists -or other health-care workers -of developing acquired immune deficiency syndrome through their work. 
. But Doctor John A. Rahe, presi­dent of the Indiana Dental Associa­tion and a practicing dentist in Aurora, said the protective measures are a good idea because they're also effective for guarding against other infections -notably hepatitis B and herpes. 
Inmates 
continuedfrom page 1 
in his cell for more than 1 0 hours, apparently angered at the medical care he was receiving. State police forced their way into the cell and the guard was released. There were no injuries. 
Ught said yesterday's incident ap­parently was touched off by the frustration of convicted armed rob­ber Namon Travis, 40, who failed to quash a transfer across state. to the State Prison ofSouthern Michigan at Jackson, where he had been incar­cerated once before. 
"He (Travis) claimed to have an enemy there and tried to talk his way out ofthe transfer. When he was un­successful, he went into the yard and 
tried  to  mobilize  prisoners,"  she  
said  
An  alarm  was  sounded for  the  

prisoners to end their break and return inside, but Travis and Elvis Williams, 31, who also was scheduled to transfer to Jackson, dashed for the cafeteria, Ught said. 
Budget 
continuedfrom page 1 
Despite possible disruptions, Treasury Secretary james A. Baker III said he felt the imposition of across-the-board reductions was fair and would accomplish cuts in some popular programs that Congress would never go along with ot­herwise. 
"I am saying we are going to get some cuts that we otherwise never would have gotten," Baker said in an interview with The Associated Press. 
Baker also discounted fears of some economists that wholesale spending reductions caused by the new budget-balancing law could damage the economy. "I don't think cutting spending ... is going to cause a recession," he said. 
Whatever personnel cuts are as well as security specialists will not be affected. 
Some 567.9 million will be trimmed from the n .4 billion federal student aid program, includ­ing $9.6 million from guaranteed student college loans and $55.7 mil­lion from other student aid programs, under the cutbacks. 
In addition, students applying for the loans will be charged a loan origination fee of 5.5 percent, up from the current 5 percent fee. Some 68,000 students will lose federal scholarships called Pell Grants next fall as the family income cutoffdrops by $1,000 to 524,000. 
The deficit projection of 5220.5 billion -an average between the OMB and CBO estimates -was nearly $50 billion above the n 72 billion target set by the Gramm­Rudman act for fiscal 1986. 

OPEN 24 HOURS 
Meanwhile, at the Federal Avia­
BUYERS MARKET PLACt: 
tion Administration, tight travel and hiring restrictions have been 
5901 N. Grape Road 
imposed, although officials said 
7DAYSAWEEK
Mlshawaka,INplans to hire additional air traffic 
controllers and aviation inspectors 
The Observer Thursday,January 16, 1986-page 7 

Choosing a long distance companyis a lotlikechoosing a roommate. 
Living together with someone for the first time can be an "educational" experience. 
And living with a long distance company isn't any different. Because some companies may not give you all the services you're used to getting from AT&T. 
For instance, with some companies you have to spend a certain amount before you qualify for their special volume discounts. With some others, voice quality may vary. 
But when you choose AT&T, there won't be any surprises when you move in. You'll get the 
same high-quality, trouble-free service you're used to. 
With calls that sound as close as next door. Guaranteed 60% and 40% discounts off our Day Rate-so you can talk during the times you can relax. Immediate credit for wrong numbers. Operator assistance and collect calling. 
So when you're asked to choose a long dis­tance company, choose AT&T. Because whether you're into Mozart or metal, quality is the one thing everyone can agree on. Reach out and touch someone~ 
©1985 AT&T Communications 


-·----~------------­
View~_o_i_n_t________
Th_u_rs-day-,J-an-uary_1_6,_19-86_.-p-age-8 
One should be aware of the two sides of apartheid 
The blacks of South Africa have given everyone serious reservations about ending apartheid. The foremost reason is their own record offailures. 
Chris Edwards 
guest column 
Perhaps the best reason to deny them politi­cal power over all of South Africa is their demonstated inability to effectively run the individual homelands. The various tribes elect their own governments in these homelands and the Pretoria government gives them autonomy to run them. And, run them they do -right into the ground. 
There is no excuse for the failure of these homeland goverments to develop the vast mineral resources in the homelands (including one of the richest deposits of platonium in the world), nor is there any excuse for the lack of productive agriculture and farming in homelands that receive more than adequate rainbll. These opportunities are literally right under their noses, yet they fail to help themselves to them. 
We have also heard of the high infant mor­tality rates among the blacks. It is the respon­sibility of the homeland governments to provide adequate health programs for their respective tribes. It is the failure of the black governments to address these concerns and provide things like sanitation, sewerage and control of dysentery which compounds the problem. 
We have also been told of the inequality of job opportunities. Let us face it, preparation for such job opportunities starts with an education. Education starts in the homeland. The homeland governments fail to run even a moderately useful education system (much less one that will truly prepare their own people for economic advancement). The white government has given them all the latitude needed to run their own school sys-tern. The homeland governments just cannot do it. Ifmoney was the problem, they should have made use of the mineral resources and agricultural potential of their own territories. .God knows there is a great need for food in Africa and a vast market for minerals in developed nations. 
These problems are not exclusive to only one or two homelands. They persist in all of them. There is no excuse for all homeland governments being so inept or incapable of meeting these tasks. It is unrealistic to think the blacks could run the entire nation ofSouth Africa if they cannot even run their own little homeland. 
As for the controversy over carrying passes that tell their whole life story, the truth must come out. It can be hidden no longer. South Africa employs millions ofblackworkers from neighboring nations. To distinguish a legitimate black worker from an "illegal (black) alien" the pass must be carried. It is aimed at protecting the job market from il­legal aliens that would otherwise drive down the price of the black man's labor. Without such protection of the South African job market the native population would lose its rightful advantage to competing illegal aliens. Passes are not meant to suppress anyone ex­cept those that would take jobs from those who deserve them. As for all the information included in the passes, they must be detailed in order to be effective. In a realistiC sense, passes are only a very detailed version of American "green cards" carried by foreigners working in the United States. We should not be surprised by a government capable of fin­ding out so much about its people. Just con­sider how much information our own government can acquire just from our little nine-digit Social Security number. 
People who support the blacks in their drive to end apartheid have promised un­relented pressure. Pressure to bring about reform and pressure once reform is attained. Why? Ifyou get what you want, what purpose could it possibly serve to continue applying pressure? This hard-line stance makes no sense and is doomed to fail. Why should the government reform if it will not satisfy the protestors? Is not this the surest way to cause the government to resist any reform? 
The anti-apartheid people must open their minds to an understanding of the political reality involved. It is not as simple as they reduce it to. The controversy is not merely a black vs. white problem. There are instead two coalitions which include some seventeen interest groups. 
The "black" side is far from being homogeneous. It is comprised of some ten tribes ofblacks, and each one is very different from the next. Inter-tribal tension is con­siderable and is demonstrated in the practice of "neckery" (put one tire around a member of a different tribe, add a good dousing of gasoline and just a touch of fire for the "finishing" ingredient). The only real similarities between the various tribes are the color of their skin and their opposition to apartheid. 
The other coalition is dominated by the whites but also includes several other minority groups such as the Coloreds, Indians, Malayans, Pakastanies, Afrikaneer and even Jews. It is not so much a "white" side as it is a non-black coalition. 
With these considerations in mind, it is ob­vious that it will be no easy task to please even a majority of them (much less all of them.) Advancing reform will be a very delicate balancing act of give and take from each groups of both coalitions. Hard-line stances must fall away to practical negotiations in or­der to achieve a workable compromise. It will not be all give from one side and all take from the other. Those who declare "freedom now" and make ultimatums of immediate change are ignoring one very. important fact of life ­the South African Army. It is the best equipped and most professional fighting force on the continent south of the Sahara. It supports the government with unfailing loyalty, and rightly so. It will put a quick end to any attempt at immediate change{i.e. rebellion or violence). 
Another fact oflife, long ignored, is that the government ofSouth Africa is a democracy in its parliamentary form. Though it does not directly represent all parties in the country it is a democracy all the same. Two things emerge from this consideration. 
The first consideration is that as a democracy, it is by its very nature and design responsive to the needs ofits people, even the disenfranchised. It is a dynamic system of government that has the greatest capacity for reforming itself peacefully. Constant reform to meet the legitimate needs of society is its very purpose. 
The second consideration is that as a democracy, change will not be immediate. We need only look at our own government at any level (local, state or national) to realize this. But we also know that peaceful change is not only possible but an accomplished fact many times over. We also know that such changes and reforms are long lasting. 
Discussion ofapartheid must not be spoken of in favor of any side without including serious discussion ofboth sides and all parties comprising each side. There is more to this controversy than either the black population or the white government. There has been much said about the needs of the blacks and too little understanding of the government's position attempted. If we are to be aware of what is going on, then let us be aware of both sides. There have been various films and speakers on campus addressing the black con­cerns. What is also needed is an explanation of the government's position from a credible representative of that government. It is time to stop looking only one way and start seeing both the government's position as well as that of the blacks. I would therefore challenge those interested in making our campus so aware of the issue to start presenting us with both sides. 
Chris Edwards is a junior government major. 
A changed grading system would be more accurate 
All high schools and universities use a grading scale involving flat-letter grades, yet many include other variables such as minuses and pluses to evaluate a student's work. At Notre Dame, however, the plus is nonexis­tent. Only minuses and flat-letter grades exist. Currently, for the letter grades A and 8, if a student deserves a minus, one-half point is deducted from the value of that flat-letter grade. I propose, for the letter grades A, 8, C and D, a scale which deducts a third ofa point from and adds a third ofa point to the value of the flat-letter grade for the minus and the plus, respectively. The Aplus and D-would have to be excepted, since a standard four-point scale with 1.0 as passing correlates with numerous other universities' grading scales. 
Matthew Fagan 
guest column 
Granted some teachers interpret the minus and the tlat-letter grade ranges separately and consider them of equal size:, while many ot· hers traditionally interpret the minus range as a subset ofa letter grade range in which it lies in the lower third. Hence, the tlat-letter grade 
Doonesbury 
range lies in the remaining two-thirds and is thus twice the size of the minus range. This traditional interpretation does not accurately coincide with the University's grading scale. One-halfpoint is deducted from the value ofa letter grade for a grade lyingin the lower third of that letter grade's range, yet no credit is given for a grade in the upper third. How could the difference between two con­secutive grade values be the same according to the University administration when this dif­ference in a teacher's evaluation is unequal? All teachers must be consistent among them­selves and with the administration. The plus whose range would lie in the upper third ofa letter grade would produce an equal dif­ference of one-third point between con­secutive grade values, and all teachers could evaluate the variable ranges, those ofplus flat­letter grade, and minus as one-third ofa letter grade range. 
Ofcourse the introductionofvariables into a grading scale creates more borderline situa­tions, but because a student would receive credit for earning a plus he would be more psychologically motivated to work harder for the added credit. Currently, if one of his grades lies in the middle of a letter grade range, a student is discouraged in trying to 
raise it to the minus range of the next letter 
grade because of the flat-letter grade range's 
large size. With the additional borderline 
created by the plus hope arises and remains 
within him to raise this grade into the next 
range or possibly higher. This motivation will 
help Notre Dame students improve their GPA, 
making them slightly more competitive for 
national competitions and scholarships. 
Finally, a student's GPA calculated from this new grading scale would more accurately reflect and evaluate his overall work. After all, companies and various graduate schools con­sider one's GPA as a vital part ofone's dossier, but because of the current grading scale, they underestimate a student's true ability. Shouldn't employers and school ad­ministrators know exactly what he is capable of? They do not realize that many times a stu­dent may have deserved a plus and thus deserved additional credit. He is being un· justly evaluated. His future career or further education depends highly on his GPA, and if ,that does not accurately retlect his efforts, 
what could? 

The addition ofthe plus in the grading scale 
would not only benefit the student but also 
the Notre Dame community. Astudent would 
be justly credited for his work effort which 
Garry Trudeau 

may increase as a result. Furthermore, this more accurate grading system would arouse the Notre Dame academic interest even greater -a seemingly impossible task. 
Matthew Fagan is in the Freshman Year of Studies at Notre Dame. 
Policy 
• 
Commentaries in The Observer do not necessarily reflect the opinions ofThe Observer. 

• 
Guest columns may not respond directly to previous commentaries appearing in The Observer and may not exceed 700 words. 

• 
The Observer encourages com­mentaries from all members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's com­munity. 


Quote of the day 

"The dwarf sees farther than the giant, when he has the giant's shoulders to mount on." 
... 
"ieVVP-~O~i~n~t~----------------------------------------Th--ur_s_da~y~,J_m_u_ary~l-6~,_19_B_6__~P~~~e-9 
Investment protests resemble past activism 
I had the advantage, and I am convinced that It was exacdy that, of having grown up In the '60s and having attended Berkeley in the final years of the '60s type ofstudent activism. A thought which began to strike me then and which has only been strengthened since Is how very traditional, and In that sense con­servative, "radical" student activism really was within the American context. 
Kern R. Trembath guest column 
Perhaps the most obvious traditional ele­ment of the '60s activists, and thus the way in which they were cut from the same cloth as those against whom they rebelled, was their shortsightedness. Rlldical student policies were usually as unable to project beyond tomorrow a..., were the government's own fordgn policies. In both cases, refusal to con· slder the future implications of policies and activities because of the perceived need to "do !IOmethlng quickly" resulted in failed policies, In a lack of confidence in those making policy and In a deterioration In the creative genius of those willing to participate in policy formation. The latter result was the most serious of all, of course, because it guaranteed a perpetuation of shortsightednes weU into the future. I am not sure that things have changed much within some of the cur­rent and quite appropriate discussions con­cerning Notre Dame's investment responsibilities towards South Africa. 
While there have been many catalysts for these thoughts, one in particular was a View­point letter. In It, the authors criticized Uni· verslty President Father Theodore Hesburgh's public resistence to divestment by means of three arguments. First, It presumed that other countries would fill the economic gaps left by departing American capital, leaving black South Africans no better off than before. Second, many Informed scholars do not ac· cept this "fill·in-the·gap" line of reasoning. And third, Notre Dame should not be left to wallow In the dust of the onrushing divest­ment bandwagon. Let us ignore the third reason a..~ merely a sophisticated version of "But Mom, everybody's doing it," and let us table the second reason until they show us that there are not many informed scholars on the other side of the argument. That leaves us with the first reason. 
Surely, it has struck others, in addition to me, that America's own history of fairly rapid racial Improvement over the last 30 years stands in exact opposition to their argument. Does no one remember that it was not until the power of the federal government was swung into place against the segregationist policies of (especially) the Southern states that America's apartheid system began to col­lapse? Does no one remember that it was not until Johnson's War on Poverty allocated massive doses offederal aid to those states and to black urban areas elsewhere that the phrase "black economic influence" began to be something other than a self-referential incon­sistency? Has no one noticed that it is espe­cially in so-called "free" countries that no groups can really be free uniess it has both the vote and access to economic capital? 
If these questions are anything other than rhetorical then they argue in favor ofour con­tinued economic presence in South Africa as our most tangible means ofexerting influence on that government to change its racist policies as well as our most concrete expres­sion ofsolidarity with impoverished blacks. If we wish to influence South Africa for the good we must not destroy our means of being able to do so. Obviously Pretoria is not Selma and South Africa is sovereign while the American South was not. That is, there are no specifi­cally judicial means by which we can change apertheid. But that means that we will have to use our remaining economic "weapons" all the more shrewdly; we cannot influence South Africa with weapons we have just thrown away. If you are as sick as I am of seeing blacks fighting with rocks and bottles against government tanks and cannons on one day, and then seeing those same blacks carry­ing their childrens' coffins to the cemetery the next, then do not fool yourself into thinking that divestment will give them more economic power. 
That brings us to the assertion by the aut· hoes that American divestment would be suffi­cient to exert persuasive influence on South Africa because it is "insulting" to the social concerns of the Japanese (South Africa's 


P. 0. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer IS the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the admrmstrat1on of etther institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­srble. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­tarres. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is avarlable to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. IS encouraged. 
largest export target) and the West Germans (her largest import supplier) to think that these or other countires would refill the capi­tal vacuum. In addition to the problem of thinking that countries design economic foreign policy exclusively around social con­cerns, there are other difficulties with this as­sumption. For one thing, the collision of an over-evaluated dollar with an under­evaluated rand within recent years has reduced America's overall investments in South Africa significantly and has reduced all foreign investments in new fixed-capital formation from 10 percent In 1982 to merely 
3.8 percent In 1984 (The Economist, 30 March 1985,p. 32). 
The South African recession during these years has not increased the country's foreign capital dependency as It has in so many other countries. In fact, its Interest payments on foreign loans are much lower as a percentage of exports than most third world countries and its "domestic savings ratio" is quite high, leading some South African economists and businessmen to encourage American divest­ment so that they can in turn buy out those investments at fire-sale prices. (And fire-sale they would be; the same issue of The Economist reports that a Massachusett's teac­her's union divested itself of S90 million of South African stocks In 1984 at a loss of Sll million to the teachers themselves. I wonder how many South African blacks are enjoying any of that S11 million. It seems as though both the teachers and the blacks got shafted.) And if South Africa would step in then other foreign countires would certainly follow suit to bolster their own recessed economies. The net result would be a greater control of the South African economy by South Africa itself and by its closest trading partners. The amount of time It would take to re-establish capital routes, resource supplies, factory productivity and export connections would be time during which all South Africans would suffer economic hardship. Black South Africans, however, are suffering enough as it is. One wonders why the authors want to in­crease it. 
Let me close by citing what resulted from the two major sanctions imposed on South Africa, the 1963 U.N. ban on weapons' sales and the 1977 ban on international sports com­petition. Granted that sanctions are not Identi­
cal to divestment, but surely there Is 
something to learn here. The weapons ban 
turned the country into a nearly self-sufficient 
weapons' producer, from about 40 percent 
self-sufficiency prior to the embargo to about 
85 percent now. Further, the same ban has 
resulted In a sharp increase In the technical 
sophistication of the weapons the country 
does produce and export and also, irony of 
ironies, a greater dependence upon other 
western military powers to provide for 
strategic defense (heavy land weapons, ships 
and airplanes) that It cannot provide for itself. 
Our military Is now stretched thinner at our 
expense precisely because our foreign policy 
will not allow South Africa strategically to 
defend Itself. Nor do we have any say In their 
export ofweapons-just ask Iran. 
The sports ban has resulted more obviously 
in racial Inequities. Several sports have been 
desegregated already by their governing 
bodies (cricket, soccer, boxing) even though 
these sports are not presently released from 
the boycott. Black soccer players In particular 
have suffered because the sport Is largely 
black, uniike rugby. This means that black SOC· 
cer players are denied access to International 
visibility and competition by the very nations 
which claim to support them. No wonder that 
so many end up on South American teams. 
The policy has failed to take account of its 
own succeses, that Is, the Improvement of 
specified conditions for blacks, and we are 
now boycotting black athletes. 
Those who ignore the past, whether here or in South Africa, will surely repeat Its mistakes. Universities ought to be the last place where such ignorance is approved, and if we divest we Ignore the fact that more presence means more influence and less presense means less, and we ignore as well the fact that no group Is fully free until It Is economically free. I en­thusiastically support the intentions of the authors to exert as much strangulation as pos­sible upon South Africn apartheid, but I fail to see how divestment will do that. The argu­ment is at least as strong that it will perpetuate that social evil. 
Kern R. Trembath is a visiting assistant professor In tbe Department of Theology at Notre Dame. 
P.O. Box'Q 
Administration hinders students with its rules 
DearEditor: 
Are we children or adults? We are told we are now adults but are increasingly being treated like children. Notre Dame thinks that since we are no longer under the guidance of our parents, it should take on this respon· sibility. We say that It is not Notre Dame's to take. 
After walking in from class, we noticed a bulletin that stated parletals would start at midnight the weekend before finals. To add to this outrage, all "social gatherings" were prohibited for the weekend. This is just anot­her attempt by the administration to make our decisions for us. Shouldn't our choice ofstudy habits be up to us? Shouldn't It be our respon­sibility to decide when our social llfe should be suspended to study for finals? 
It is our opinion that the hierarchy ofNotre Dame should adhere to the policies of ad­ministration and leave the policies ofllving to the students. College is supposed to be a time of growth and maturation, but we at Notre Dame still are beingsmothered by the rules of our childhood. It Is not enought that our so-
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chlef ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Manttging Editor ................................. Amy Stephan News Editor ............................................. Frank Upo News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Wolf 
cial life already has been gready restricted, 
but the University has to go further. 
We do not believe that the administration 
has this right to infringe upon our living 
habits. This is a blatant violation of our rights 
as human beings, but my mommy always said 
while I was living under her roof, I would have 
to follow her rules no matter how childish 
they were. IfI did not like these rules, I should 
move out. If Notre Dame feels the same way, 
maybe it's time to move out. 
Kevin M. O'Connell 
jamesP. Vazza 
Grace Hall 

Student Activities requests suggestions 
DearEditor: 
This letter is directed toward all students. 
OK! We give! What kind of activities (excluding alcoholic or "superstar" events) do you really want? 
}oniNeal Adelelanan 
Cftl PIIUIMm .MnyKb:er 
Student Acttvlttes 0/ftce 

Operations Board 
Buainess Manager...................... David Stephen1tch Controller ............................. William J. Highducheck Adverfiaing Manager.. . ................... Jim Hagan Systems Manager....... . ............... Mark B. Johnson Production Manager.... .... John A. Mennell 
Founded November 3, 1966 
~------­


-----~~~---------------------------~~~--­

Accent 
Thursday,January 16, 1986-page 10 
Rebels 
with a cause 
H 
GERTIE WIMMER people, and to 'marry' many f«Jturn copy «<ttor people." "I never grew up thinking about ave you ever felt like being a it," she said. "But something was rebel? missing in my life, so I talked to Sr. 
Did you ever think about going McCabe about what I hoped would against your funily, your friends be a passing phase." and the norms ofsociety just to But McCabe told her it wasn't. 
satisfy yourself? She suggested Tep begin pre­
Hyou haven't, then you've postulate training, just to familiarize probably never considered becom­her with the community. Tep tried ing a nun either. this for a year and a half. Compared 
It may sound surprising but being to her life before this training, in a nun, or "woman religious" as Holy which she just "did time in Cross Vocation Director Sister Pat Church," Tep said she learned how McCabe refers to it, Involves a lot to appreciate her prayer time under 
more than one might suspect, even the instruction ofSister Pat Gans, with several years ofCatholic her spiritual director. schooling. And not all ofit Is "High family and personal 
"conservative." pressure usually leads young 
Michelle Tep, 26, a canonical women into careers. But once novice with the Sisters ofthe Holy they've tasted that independence, Cross, spent last summer in Ap­many ofthem find that their lives palachia, although she used to be a lack purpose. They have been disil­they treat us as though we were the The Sisters ofthe Holy Cross are grandmother clapped her hands, "mild-mannered" third grade teac­lusioned by the success ethic that place for people who can't fit in not removed from their lay com­and my six brothers and sisters just her here in South Bend She doesn't our society has." anywhere else," McCabe explained. munity, though. McCabe, for ex­sat there. They had no clue I was think her decision to become a nun McCabe characterized the '80s as Like other misconceptions about ample, lives on the 5th floor ofSaint thinking about this. But after the Is conservative at all. an age ofbroken commitments, the life ofnuns, this one is com­Mary's Regina Hall. shock they were very supportive. I 
"It's real different, a real novelty, which Is why the order prefers that pletely based on fiction, she said. think they were glad to see that I
"It's a kind ofevangelization," she 
not the norm at all," she said. "And women first enter their community "In order to join the community, was OK. They are real proud of me.
expained. "We are trying to reach 
besides, I'm happy." after they have finished school and one has to go through a pre­That's one thing I've always known,
out to young adult age groups, not 
It Isn't as though Tep led a shel­been out in the world for a while, at candidacy program, which Is one of I have a real close family."
quite asking them to share our life,tered life before her decision, eit­about age 25 or 26. discernment. We make sure they but inviting them to think about it." 
her. A lifelong South Bend resident, "Our lives go against the values of have an experienced spiritual direc­Tep's friends were less under­she went to school at Ball State, the culture. When you consider tor to help them with their prayer McCabe finds that hers is a pas­standing, she said. Most ofthem where she received her teaching that our vows are ofpoverty, chas­lives." toral ministry, a ministry of were non-Catholics, and they still degree. Ball State Is where she also tity and obedience, you can see our In addition to this preparation, presence. "We get in on all the have problems adjusting to her got engaged. lives are the call to be counter­there are a series ofpsychological action. We meet people on their decision. "A lot ofthem couldn't 
"Dating wasn't fulfilling my cultural." tests, which are screening tests, for own turf." understand why I'd choose to do it. needs, though. I didn't want to be "Many people are under the it takes a very balanced personality Tep recalls her funily's reaction What they can't see Is that I didn't tied down to one person. Religious Impression that it Is easy to become to adjust to the community life and to her decision. "It was on my really choose it. God chose me for life lets me live with different r a member ofour community, and work. birthday. My mom cried, my it." 
Glitter and information combined in 'America' 
JERRY BUCK case something breaks down before and Princess Diana to the United( AP televtston writer the satellite feed at II a.m. It's the States. most complicated show Paramount Purcell said she was approached
) 

T 
he new daily information­has ever undertaken. Technically to do "America" when it was con­entertainment show "America" it's much more difficult than 'Real ceived two years ago. "I was still Is quite a change for Sarah Purcell People.' We don't have time to doing 'Real People' and I said, after the more leisurely pace of rehearse. We don't have the staffof 'Thank you, but I already have a "Real People." 'Good Morning America,' but we're job.' I was flattered to be asked. 
Purcell and McLean Stevenson trying to do that kind ofshow." Then three weeks later we were are co-hosts of"America," which canceled and they called again."
The show made its debut in Sep­
goes by satellite Monday through 
tember and Is still shaking down. It "Real People" was on five years, 
Friday (plus a weekend wrapup) to 
originally had three hosts, but and one ofits most-publicized
115 stations across the country. It's 
Stuart Damion left the show early. segments was when Miss Purcell 
a sister show to "Entertainment 
Ratings in many markets have been married Dr. Sandy McClintock in
Tonight," which also is produced 
disappointing. Hawaii -on the show. "It was aby Paramount. 
whirlwind romance," she said.

The one-hour show, which em­The feature-oriented "America" 
phasizes trends, people, places and has looked at the controversies They met on the chairlift at a ski events, is taped before a studio over rating records and whether resort in I983. "I was engaged to audience. It's designed to lead in to contraceptives should be available somebody else at the time, but my 
the late-afternoon local news. to high school students, celebrated fiance and I realized it wasn't going "It's not quite live," said Purcell. John Philip Sousa's birthday with to work," she said. "I thought in the 
"Sometimes we just make the the marching band from the Univer­back ofmy head that Sandy was satellite. We start taping at 9 a.m. so sity ofSouthern California and neat, but I didn't even have time to that we have a litde extra time in covered the visit ofPrince Charles talk to him." 
Above: Sarah Purcell, with the other former hosts of"Real People," now enginee's Paramount's information-entertainment series "America." Right: Purcell holds a bouquet offlowers presented to her while the cast of"Real People" took a train across the Eastern United States. 


·­

The Observer Thursday,january 16, 1986-page 11 
Sports Briefs 
The NO Squash Club will hold a mandatory meeting tonight at 7 in the LaFortune Little Theater. Anyone in­terested in joining the Squash Club also should attend. For more information call William Mapother at 283-34'51. -The Observer 
The NO Rowing Club will hold a mandatory meeting for all novice men rowers tonight at 7 in Room 123 ofthe Nieuwland Science Building. Anyone interested in joining the men's novice team also should attend. For more information call Patrick Songer at 277-8336.-The Observer 
Any Off-Campus student interested in playing on an 'A' league interhall basketball team should contact Kevin tlamer at 272-0416 by Monday. -The Observer 
An agility and fitness program is being 
sponsored by the ND football team. Participants will meet every Monday and Friday at 6: I '5 a.m. in the ACC. Anyone interested should attend a general meeting today at '5 p.m. in the football auditorium ofthe ACC. For more information call julie at 239-7475.­
The Obserr1er 
WVFI Sports, AM-64, will broadcast Notre Dame men's basketball and hockey action this weekend. Coverage of the NO­UCLA basketball game on Saturday will begin at 2:10p.m. with "Let's Talk Basketball," hosted byJlm Gibbons. "A Series to Savor", a look at the Irish-Bruin rivalry, will also precede the play-by-play with Pete Pranlca and Kelly Brothers. Joe Malvezzi will anchor coverage of Friday and Saturday night's NO-Michigan, Dearborn hockey series, beginning at 7:20p.m. with "The Lefty Smith Show."-The Obserr1er 
Bengal Bouts Boxing workouts for this year's tournament will begin Monday at 4 p.m. in the Boxing Room of the ACC. All Boxing Club members and anyone interested In boxing In the Bengal Bouts Tournament should attend. For more information call Kevin O'Shea at 283-3182. -The Obserr1er 
The NO fencing team needs someone mechani­cally inclined who wants the opportunity to earn a monogram and be a part of the fencing program. A knowledge of fencing is not necessary. Those interested should call Coach Mike DiCicco at 239· '5c;Hc;. ·The Obserr'er 
Cross-country skiers may rent cross-country ski equipment from the NVA, every Thursday through Sunday at the Rockne Memorial. Skis, poles, and boots are provided and no reservation is necessary. Any students, faculty or staff members in­terested should call 239-6100 for additional information.-The Ob­
server 
Awhite water rafting trip to Utah over spring break is being organized by NVA. Anyone interested should attend a meeting Sunday at 7 p.m. in the Football Auditorium ofthe ACC. For more Information call the NVA office. -The Observer 
A scuba diving course consisting of 1s hours of instruction will be held by NVA. The course is open to students and staff. Anyone interested should attend a meeting Tuesday at 6 p.m. in Room 218 of the Rockne Memorial Building. For more information call the NVA office -The Observer 
Red Cross water safety courses in water 
safety instruction, lifesaving, and lifeguard training are being or­ganized by the NVA. For information on class times, costs, and prere· quisites call the NVA office in the ACC by the end ofthe week.-The Observer 
Men's and women's volleyball tournaments 
are being organized by the NVA. Rosters must include at least seven 
players all ofwhich must reside in the same hall. Rosters should be 
turned in by Wednesday to the NVA office in the ACC. For more 
information call the NVA. -The Observer 
Men's and women's racquetball tourna­
ments are being organized by the NVA. The tourney will be a doubles competition, and both players on each team must reside in the same hall. Rosters should be turned in by Wednesday to the NVA office in the ACC. For more information call the NVA.-The Obsert~er 
A Grad-Faculty racquetball tournament Is 
being organized by the NVA. Competition in the elimination tourna­ment will consist of doubles play only. Rosters should be turned in by Wednesday to the NVA office in the ACC. For more information call the NVA. -The Observer 
A doubles handball tournament is being 
organized by the NVA. The elimination tournament is open to all students and staff, Including grad students. Rosters should be turned in by Wednesday to the NVA office in the ACC. For more information call the NVA. -The Observer 
A men's and women's track competition is 
being organized by the NVA. Individuals interested in signing up for 
the track and field events should notify the NVA office in the ACC by 
Wednesday. ND residence halls will be ranked by points compiled 
by individuals. For more information call the NVA. -The Obsert~er 
An open bowling league is being organized by the NVA. Rosters for the four-week tournament must include seven names, four of which will represent the team each week. Rosters should be turned in by Wednesday to the NVA office In the ACC. For more information call the NVA. -The Observer 
NVAaerobics for men and women will begin Wednesday in Gym 2 of the ACC. Any interested student or staff member may call the NVA office in the ACC for times and entry fees. ·The Obsert~er 
NVA stretchercise, a toning, stretching, and light ex­ercise to music will begin jan. 23 in Gym 2 of the ACC. Classes will be held every Tuesday and Thursday from '5:10 p.m. to 6 p.m. Anyone interested may register at the first session. For more in­formation call the NVA. -The Observer 
Wingate hot asHoyaswin over Syracuse 
LANDOVER, MD.· David Wingate scored 12 of his 18 points in the second half, Including the game­winning basket, to lead No. 1 '5 Geor­getown to a 73-70 Big East Conference victory over fourth­ranked Syracuse Wednesday night. 
Wingate's basket with 2:16 remaining snapped a 66-66 tie and gave the Hoyas a lead they would never relinquish. 
After Ralph Dalton made a free 

throw to give Georgetown a 69-66 
lead, the Orangemen's Wendell 
Alexis hit a jumper to cut the gap to 
69-68. 
But Wingate scored the Hoyas' final four points, including two clinching free throws with two ­seconds left, to help Georgetown hand Syracuse its first defeat of the season. 
Reggie Williams scored 17 points for the Hoyas, who now are 12-4 overall at: A 3-21n the Big East. Rafael Addison had 16 points to lead Syracuse, 13-1 and 4-l. 
Berry nets 20 asRedmen beat Pirates 
EAST RUTHERFORD, NJ.-Walter Berry overcame a box-and-one defense to score 20 points and ninth-ranked St. John's limited Seton Hall to 14 points in the final 13 minutes, beating the Pirates 74-'i8 in a Big East Conference basketball game Wednesday night. 
The victory was the 16th In 18 games for the Redmen and raised their conference record to 4-1. It was the sixth straight loss for Seton Hall, now 9-8 overall and 0-4 in the league. 
Redmen Ron Rowan scored 1 5 points In the game, while teammate Shelton jones had 13 and Willie Glass had 1 0. 
Daryll Walker topped Seton Hall with 16 points. 
Tht• Ohserr·er ~otrt' Damt' olfkt'. lonlt'U on thr third floor of l.a~orlunt· Studt·m ( .t'mt·r. an·t'pls das~ilkd dd\·t'rllsm~ from') am umil ~ p m. :\lunda\ throu~h l'nda\ The Ohsert•er Saini \tan··, offkr. lot·art·d on tht' thord floor of lla~o:~o:ar Collt'l(l' <.t'nlt'r. an:t'pl~ dassifkds from ll .~0 p m unlil -~p.m. \ton· dav though hida\ Ikadlint' for O<'XI·UJ\ da"ilkds is .~ p.m .<\11 da"ifkds must ht· prrpaod.l'ithl'r an prrson or h\ mail <har~o:t· is I 0 n·ms pt'r fin·t·harat··
Classifieds 
lrrs rr dav 
.____N_o_nc_E_s-----'1  I LOST/FOUND  WANTED  -lor...._ B-8ALl TICS lelllor eectlonl ROW 11 cuehiona  II everyone k-tilling me I think too much. then why •m I a~wt~v-eo thought­'-?  Put Extnl $$ In your pockel8 lnet.d ol eomeooe ....... S.Ve 2&/ on luta at Plllldora'e llool<a. 1137 South Bend Ave.. 233-2342.  
AMY277-6807  Thllnl< you St. Jude.  
TYPING 277-1041 FRH PICKUP I DIWVIRY  Lo.t: Kodak Dlac camwa 3100 atlhe LSU game eithw In the etadlum or on GrMn­tleld. I can poeitively Identify. P..... return. call Mary C.olal 284-5242  Wanted: Gi~ Friday. Part time legal r-cheecretary Cell 233-3432 Al1ll & Sc:iencee. Humetllti.., Theology,  NEED UCLA TIX Martha4308 ................................................................ NEED 2 STUDENT OR GA TIX TO UCLA  AnN: All NOTRE DAME MALES TIRED OF WATCHING OlD RERUNS? YOUR ROOMMATE DRIVING YOU NUTS? INTERESTED IN ROWING?  MEGBAENNAN TURT1.E CREEK GODDESS LEGALITY ONlY DAYS AWAY I  
TYPING ....,...... 114-tJa llool<alloughl, Soktand Treded. 7 Dav-a -·Pandora'e llool<a 1137 South Bend Ave.. 233-2342. $10.5380 Weeldy/Up Me!Nng Orcut.rel Noquoc..l Slnoerely lntw•ted rulh Hll-eeaed envelope: Su~. POBox 470CDD,  Loet at • beuhtbellgam• A Morrt-y Mt1n01 DT bMebell cap. u,._you Mveln the DT you can't -II eo why not <*I Joe at 3436 or atop by room 13. LOST: BlUE LAND'S END SUITCASE ON UNITED LIMO SUNDAY NIGHT. IN I· TIAUI G88 ARE ON IT. PLEASE CAll GREG:J-489. LOST -GREEN ARMY FIELD JACKET It BRIDGET'S during ftnele -· Name lrwlde. Only wintw coet. Cell 287­5425:Pete.  Enginewlng, and BueineM Mejors. Seve 25/ on Texta at Pandora'e llool<a, 1137 South Bend Ave .. 233-2342. PART TIME GRAPHIC ARTIST CAll2Si-3187 FOR SALE IKIS. brand new ROSSI EXCEL SOra for onty $125/pr. In utore they ••·$200. cefl Joe It3436 •  GAME. CAU.2n-283&. PERSONALS THANK YOU ST. JUDE ................................................................ WILCOIII HOllE MATTHIW GIIAOONITTE Whit bettw WIY to be welcomed becl< to NO-but through The C*Mrvwl We ml-.dyoull  TONITE'S YOUR LAST CHANCE TO JOIN THE MEN'S CREW TEAM. AT 7:00 PM IN 123 NIEUWI..AND. YOU WON'T BE BORED. INTERESTED IN INTER-VARSITY CHRISTIAN FEU.OWSHIP? CAll SHEILA-11185 OR KEVIN-1883. I APOlOGIZE TO MIKE PERIARD FOR MY IGNORANCE IN THINKING THAT NEBAASI<A COULD BEAT MICHIGAN. IT'S CLEAR THAT MICHIGAN IS THE SUPERIOR TEAM AND THE SUPERIOR STATE-MARK L  ................................................................ "I have thle .-with my body ... tl It doeen't Nh what I c;ve lt ... It doeen'l get what It _,tal" R.V.E. (CIIriel,_ S.. lion '85) ................................................................ DeniM and Alp AAE NOT GOING STEADY! PleMI don'l jeoperdlze e bMutilul friendehlp by ac:cueing them ol euch. Thank you.  
Woodlltock. IL 60088 SUMMER & CAREER JD8S AVAILABlE' Reeort Hotet., CruiM Unere I Amuee­ment Pert<a we now ~C:CePting epptlca­tlone for employment! To ,....ve an epp41catlon and lnfOflniUon. Write; Tounem tnfor1T14111on Servloee P.O. Box 7411 Hlhon Head lelend. SC 28828 TYPING CAU.CHIIIS  FOR RENT APARTMENT AVAILABLE N.D.APTS.1 OR 2 PERSONS CAll TOM 289-3483 8 BDRM HOME. NEAR CAMPUS. 272­6306 Sh.-e 3 BR houee with 2 non-t1mol<lng grad atudenta. $130 pw month ptue utiHti•. Cell 232­8327. Mrly or lete.  RENT OR SAlE 3 BDRM. HOUSE W. ANGELA 232-3535 le It True You C.n Buy J-for $44 through the U.S. government? Get the ,_ todeyl Cell 1-312-742-1142 Ext. 7316. TICKETS NEED 3 UCLA TICKETS BADLY; CALl 289-1480.  From your llluclcly lithefront deellll Welcome becl<, everybody! I know-hed • gr•r time et the Chrtll,_ perry, and 1 hope you ••d enjoying the New Y-eo f.-. Get aw:kln' at thOH booke -the eemeetw II atmo.t CNW. Hope y'... brNlcl -e aplfly lnd wondll'lul 1nd apeclellnd fun lnd rMtlulllnd -. s;;;;.·~·;;·;;;;;.·;;o;;i··;;;;;.:·;;;;·u;~ reaponeibiNty for thle pw.anaJ wiN have to fall on me. (Tl111'e me, not me). Whet I Wlnt to know Ia, Doelanyone relly know whet time It le? Doee enybodyroelly cere?  tiu'Ntiiiv?·~·veU:ow··suiiMAAi'Ne 11272-HIKE. Delivery hourw: 5pm-12pm Mondey·Thu..-y; 5pm-211m Fndey; 3pm-1em S.turdlly; 4pm-10pm Bunday. The Snite Mueeum of Art Boolcatore wil be having • polt-ChrletmM .... In O'Sheg. Greet Hll from 10:00 e.m.-3:00 p.m. on Thurw.. .len. 16th and Frt.. .llwt. 17th. Rembrendt Celenderw •$4.00 Many art poet.,. and art cetllloguw on....  NMIOIII 11110111 11110111 ITUDIIITIIIRADUA11MCIIJIIIAY 011 Dl!~ 1-WHO HAYI NOT Rll IB*D FOil ...... IIMIITa ON-CAIII"UI INTIJR. VIIWI IHOULD DO 10 AT ntl CAIIIIJI AIIO I'U.CIIIIIIT IIIMCU OI'FICU, LOWUI I.IVa. 0/F IIIUIORIAL u.IMY, flY TUa. DAY, JANUARY 21. OM~: COLD -IUQUOil CAMY OUT TO I A.ll. U.S. 11 N., 1 M.OCK IOUnt 01' HOLIDAY 111111.  1  

~-~ ~---­
The Observer Thursday,January 16, 1986-page 12 
Dwight Gooden named AP Athlete of the year 

Cbtcago Bears quarterback]tm McMabonftts a headband on hts bead during the taping of tbe David Letterman show, Tuesday. McMahon was 
NEW YORK-Dwight Gooden led the major leagues in victories, strikeouts and earned run average in 1985. He won 14 straight games and pitched 31 consecutive scoreless in­nings. He became the youngest modem big leaguer to win 20 games and earned the National League Cy Young award at the earliest age of any pitcher, ever. 
With all these accomplishments, what was his most memorable mo­ment of 1985? 
"When I hit the home run," he says. 
Soft-spoken and almost never given to hyperbole, the 21-year-old right-hander demurs from tooting his own horn, but the numbers trumpet his success. 
For his deeds, Gooden was voted The Associated Press' 1985 Male Athlete of the Year, winning over Chicago Bears running back Walter Payton by a large margin. In ballot­ing released Wednesday, Gooden received 53 votes in a nationwide poll of 221 sports writers and broadcasters; Payton had 39 votes. 

THERE'S STILL TIME TO PREPARE  
given tbe headband which reads "Late Night", by Letterman who suggested that be wear tt during tbe Super Bowl in exchangefor gifts and cash.  CLASSES STARTING This week 1717 E South Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 272-4135 ·-~.v~-H. KIIPUIN  

NOTICE TO ALL NOTRE DAME STUDENTS EIYRO£LMEIYT  
ALL students must enroll. Students who do not enroll by Thurs., January 23, will be deleted from the Revised Class Lists. After January 23 a LATE ENROLLMENT FEE of $25.00 will be charged to add a student to the lists. In order to enroll, you must complete a (green) ENROLLMENT form (example shown below) and give It to a clerk In the Reglstar's Office. Keep your stamped (yellow) carbon copy of the form as proof of your enrollment. You may be asked to show It when making class changes. UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME ENROLLMENT FORM ~=-=:-::::-------=::.,.,:;:or-----:-:,,.~, I DHCT TO CIAADUATI WtTHIN 1"'11i11UT tiiiONT..._ ...K THl Arii'IM>..NATE IIONTH Ml.OW. COIIniTI A I I IILOW DURINO J,A.Ll ENliiiOLLMENT ONlY STUDENTCLASS SCHEDULES  
To add or drop a course, a student must complete a SCHEDULE ADJUSTMENT REQUEST FORM for each change. Students who change majors may drop their old courses and add their new courses on a COURSE SELECTION FORM. The forms are available In departmental offices. Your advisor must sign each form and each add or drop must be signed by a representative of the department offering the course. After January 23 all Schedule adjustments must also be approved by the students' deans. Deans' approval must be obtained for PASS/FAIL option changes at ALL times. No PASS/FAIL option changes will be honored after January 23.  

The Observer Thursday,January 16, 1986 -:-~.page 13 
Irish 
continuedjrompage 16 
NO 59, Miami 53 
MIAMI · The: Irish wrapped up 
fifth place In the Miami Burger King 
Classic with a 59-B victory over 
host Miami on jan. 5, the final day of 
the tournament in the Knight Sports 
Complex. 
Keys paced the Irish attack with 22 points, hitting on 10 of 17 shots from the field and pulling down eight rebounds, while: Ebben chipped in v.. ith I 0 points. Gavin had just two points, hut dished out five assists and made four steals while holding Miami high-scoring Maria Rivera to I 3 points. 
"Against Miami we: got a another good game from Mary, particularly dc:fc:nlilvc:ly," said DiStanislao. "We were fortunate because the three teams that we played in the tourna­ment all had their strongest player in the backcourt. 
"I was pleased to see us rebound from the opening loss and come back to play well." 
The game: was tied at I 5 after eight minutes, but the: Irish went on 
13·2 tear over the next seven 
linutc:s to take an I !·point lead. 
c:ys had eight ofthose points. 
Notre Dame kd 32-21 at the half 
and stretched its lead to as many as 
I5 points before Miami closed the 
gap to six in the final minute. Some 
cold shooting in the second half 
prevented Notre Dame from putting 
the game away. The Irish hit on just 
eight of 23 shots in the second half 
( 35 percent) after hitting 56 per­
cent in the first 20 minutes. 
Forward Hope Butler added 12 
points for Miami, but both she and 
Rivera fouled out in the final two 
minutes. Miami was plagued by poor 
shooting all afternoon, connecting 
on just 34 percent of its shots. 
ND 68, SW Texas 43 
MIAMI · Notre Dame got its most convincing victory since mid· December with a 68-43 win over Southwest Texas on jan. 4, the second day of the Miami Burger King Classic. 
Notre Dame did not shoot par­ticularly well, but outrebounded the Bobcats by a 51·38 margin to stay in in control of the game. Keys led a balanced Irish attack with 16 points and 10 rebounds, while Ebben added 1 0 points. 
"If you're going to play well you want to come away with a victory," said DiStanislo. "Against Southwest Texas State: we: played another good 
This Spring Break, if you and your friends are thinking about heading to the slopes, the beach or just home for a visit, Greyhound! can take you there. For only $99 or less, round trip. 
From February 15 through April27, all you do is show us your college student I.D. card when you purchase your ticket. Your ticket will 
game and came out on top." 
The Irish jumped out to a 23·6 
lead in the first 1 0 minutes of the 
game, and stretched that advantage 
to 39·16 at the half. The Bobcats got 
no closer than 21 points the rest of 
the way. 

The comfortable halftime lead 
enabled DiStanislao to give her 
reserves some playing time in the 
second half. Every Irish player saw at 
least 11 minutes of action in the 
game. 

Guard jackie Benson led the Bob· cats with 16 points, but no other player could net more than five points for Southwest Texas State. The Irish had seven players with at least six points. 
DiStanislao experimented with her starting lineup in the game, in· serting sophomore Beth Morrison at center in place of Botham, and sop· homore Kathy Barron at guard in place ofEbben. Morrison responded with seven points and five rebounds, while Barron addded four points and four rebounds. 
JMU 53, ND 51 
MIAMI · The Irish started off 1986 on the wrong foot, dropping a heartbreaking 53·51 decision to james Madison on the first day ofthe Burger King Classic. 
Notre Dame led 51-48 with 50 seconds left, but the Dukes got a driving layup from Donna Budd and a 12-footer from Julie Franken to take the lead. Keys' and Morrison's misses on the front end of one-and­ones in the final minutes proved costly, as Notre Dame did not score in the final 2:13. 
"We were up by three with 50 seconds left, but we hurt ourselves with an unwise shot with the shot clock winding down and by missing the front ends on those two one-and· one situations. Then (Lavetta Willis) fouled the shooter at the end, so we lost by two points. 
"On the last play we didn't get the necessary rotation from our defense so Franken was wide open for a shot. Those are the kind of mental errors you can't afford to make." 
The Irish led 24-21 at the half, but the Dukes took the lead for the first time since the opening minutes on a three-point play from forward Betsy Witman that put them up 30-28. 
Keys led the Irish with 20 points, while Botham added 11 points and seven rebounds before fouling out in the final minute:. The: Irish suf­fered through another poor shoot· ing night, hitting on just 40 percent oftheir shots for the afternoon. 
Center Alisa Harris led james Madison with 15 points and nine 
then be good for travel for 15 days from the date of purchase. Sothis Spring Break, get a real break. Go anywhere Greyhound goes for $99 or less. For more information, call Greyhound. 
Must prcsenl avalid collegt srudenci.D. card upon purchase. NoO!herdiscouncs apply. Tickets art noncransfmbk and good for travel on Greyhound Lines, Inc., and ocher paruciponngcarrim. C<rwn restrictJOm apply. Offer effective 2115186. Offer limic<d. N01 Yliid 111 Canada. 
GO GREYHOUND 

Analeavethedrivingtous: 
Michiana Regional Airport, 4671 Terminal Drive, South Bend, IN, 287-6541 
rebounds, while Witman added 1'_., points and Franken netted .p,.. The Irish outrc:bounded the Dukes by a 36-31 margin. 
The Dukes went on to lose to seventh-ranked Oklahoma, th~. eventual tournament champion, 57· 55, In the: second round ofplay. 
"James Madison is for real," noted DiStanislao. "I wasn't surprised that they gave Oklahoma a good game:. It was frustrating for us to get so close and not be able to beat them." 

-
Lynn Ebben 
UCLA 73, ND 67 

Talk about a grueling exam schedule. After a week of cramming for finals, the Notre Dame women's basketball team had to test Its mettle: Dec. 21 against Pac-1 0 power UCLA on the ACC court. 
It looked like the Irish had been up all night studying something else, however, as the Bruins took the sloppy home team to school, 73-67. With many errant passes, missed shots, and generally sluggish play, DlStanislao probably would have to give: her team an 'F, as in "flat". 
"We were: Oat because it was right after finals," she said. "We: killed our­selves with dropped passes, missed shots inside:, poor rebounding, and inopportune turnovers all over the floor." 
UCLA head coach Billie: Moore:, meanwhile, looked like a genius when he inserted reserve Jamie: Brown into the game midway through the first half with the two squads tied at 10 apiece. 
Brown tallied 10 points in the: remainder of the half to pace the 
...

Bruins to a 33·28 halftime margin. The role: player finished the contest with 16 points, leading the visitors In a well-balanced scoring attack. Brown's play off the: bench, coupled with a steady contribution from another reserve, Althea Ford (six points, four rebounds), surprised DiStanislao and kept her team from recording a much-needed big upset to impress the NCAA tournament committee: members. 
"UCLA is a volatile team," said DiS· tanislao. "They're an up-and-down shooting team, and some: of their people: who don't usually shoot well shot well against us." 
The: Irish were: led once again by DiStanislao's prize: pupil, Keys, who scored 22 points and hauled down six rebounds in the losing cause. 
March of Dimes 
-BIRTH DEFECTS FOUNDATION-
In Nrw '4b111 S&ltr SUntry H ~ fOOUIIOI'III r~~~ lid TEST PAI!MRATION SPI:CIAI.ISTS SINCE 1938 CALL DAYS, EVENINGS & WEEKENDS 
1717 E South Bend .-Ye South Bend, lndl•n• 48637 


(l J'l!!h (ireynnund Lmes, Inc. 
---------~-----~ 
The Observer Thursday,January 16, 1986-page 14 

SMC basketball team starts '86 with two wins 
By CHRISTINE FORTIN Radke has a 93 percent shooting Sports Writer record for the season. Radke also led Saint Mary's in rebounds, taking 
The Saint Mary's basketball team three defensive and three offensive jumped into the new semester on rebounds. Junior Kris Pantelleria led the right foot with two straight wins. the team in assists with eight. The Belles defeated Siena Heights on The victory over Manchester Col­Saturday 65-51 and triumphed over lege was an exciting one for Saint Manchester College 63-57 on Tues­Mary's Coach Marvin Wood and his day night. team "because the Belles fell to 
Starting for both games for the Manchester by ten points last year Belles were Stephanie Duke at and because Wood was happy to win center, Rachel Bir and Beth Kreher two consecutive games. as forwards and Tammye Radke and "I give all the credit to the Kris Pantelleria playing at guard. women," commented Wood. "They
API'IIoco 

Saturday the Belles opened the beat Manchester with their shots,
Dave Lewis of the New jersey Devils (25) heads Brown during a pbyslcalflrstperiodofNHL play In 
game against Siena Heights with an their decisions, and their defense.
for the Ice after being checked by the Flyers' Dave Pblladelpbla Tuesday. The Flyers won, 3-2. 
8-0 lead which they maintained to They are a good bunch. claim a victory for their first game of "Kris Pantelleria played a super the semester. Senior Beth Kreher led defense against Manchester's the team in field goals scoring Melissa Miller who is one ofthe best nineteen points. Kreher also led the shooters in the district," said Wood. team in rebounds, making two of­"Kris made Melissa work for every fensive and seven defensive point she made." rebounds. Sophomore Rachel Bir Sheila Zentmer made a good con· 
By CHUCK FREEBY wrestler placed In the meet, al­The improvement continued as led the team in assists, contributing tribution to the team with her first Sports writer though freshman Jerry Durso made the dual meet season resumed with a five to the Belles' effort. opportunity at extended play," com­the final 16 of the championship 32-10 thrashing of Southwest Mis­On Tuesday against Manchester, mented Wood. "Tammye Radke had 
The Notre Dame wrestling team bracket before losing. souri State at the ACC. Chris Genser Saint Mary's again had the first marks an excellent shooting game. received the best gifts it could over It was the beginning ofa big three scored the only pin of the evening on the scoreboard starting out with "There was some outstanding Christmas break. experience weeks for Durso, who has emerged for the Irish at 167 pounds, while a 6-0 lead. The Belles led at halftime team play as well as good individual and success. as one of the top 134-pounders in captain John Krug picked up his 33-24 and held their lead throug­effort," said Wood. "The team is no 
Coach Fran McCann's young the nation. He finished second in the 1Oth win of the season with a major hout the contest, denying their op­stronger than the bench and the squad received a big boost over the Maryland Holiday Open and posted decision over 16-5 John Frangoulis ponents ofany turnovers. freshman are making a big contribu­holidays, performing well in two two technical falls and a superior at 177 pou!lds. Sophomore Tammye Radke led tion," 
tournaments, before posting a 1-2 decision in three dual meet matches. A pair of top-10 teams ended the the Belles with 10 field goals and hit The Belles' next game is Thursday dual meet record against top-flight The West Millington, NJ. native now winning ways of the Irish over the seven of eight from the free throw night when they will play host to Tri competition. holds a brilliant 24-6 record on the weekend, as No. 10 Michigan and line contributing 27 points to the State. The game is slated for 7:00 
The effort certainly brought a year. seventh-ranked Clarion ( Pa.) Belles' score. p.m. smile to McCann's face, as the handed Notre Dame losses at dual second-year Irish coach is beginning Durso was not the only Irish mat­meets in Ann Arbor. The Wolverines to see some development in some of man to enjoy success in Maryland, as won their match, 29-11, while his younger wrestlers. the Irish finished second thanks to Clarion won by a 32-10 count. 
Indiana beats Ohio St. 
"I was extremely pleased with the some outstanding individual perfor­Besides Durso, Pat Boyd's win way we wrestled over Christmas mances. Freshman Greg Goad, wres­against Michigan was the only other driving layup by Curtis Wilson that break," stated McCann. "We faced tling at 150 pounds, also took Irish triumph. made it 66-64 with 23 seconds left. some of the best competition in the second place in his weight class, "Overall, I'm real pleased by our BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -Steve Al­Alford then hit two free throws country at the Midlands Tourna­while classmates Chris Geneser and performances," comments McCann, ford had 32 points as Indiana, snap­and Ohio State committed an error. ment and at the Maryland Holiday Pat Boyd garnered fourth-place who now prepares his squad to face ping a seven-game Big Ten home Alford, up at the line again, hit the Open." honors at 167and 142,respectively. Illinois State in the pit Saturday after­losing streak, defeated Ohio State first of a one-and-one to make it 69­
Indeed, the 23rd annual Midlands "We had some success in the noon following the conclusion of 69-66 Wednesday night. 64 with eight seconds left. Brad Sel­Tournament at Northwestern was tournaments, and that can only build the UCLA basketball game at ap­lers made a layup at the buzzer to get considered by USA Today as one of confidence in our young wrestlers," proximately 4:30p.m. "We're ahead The Hoosiers led by as much as 12 the last shot in for the Buckeyes. the top wrestling events in he na­noted McCann. "Going out and ofschedule and the development of points in the second halfwhen Daryl tion, and the Irish managed to finish knowing you can compete with our freshmen has exceeded all ofmy Thomas hit a layup to make it 27-15 Thomas added 1 5 points and Rick 23rd out of 44 of the top teams and anyone is a real shot in the arm and expectations. Each meet we're get­with 7:28 to go. Calloway 14 for the Hoosiers, now 
.. 
amateur wrestling organizations in these kids know they will only get ting better and better and we're Ohio State closed to within two 11-4 overall and 3-2 in the con­the country. No Notre Dame better." gaining confidence." points several times, the last on a ference. 
t 
t 
t 

t University Ministiy 
t · 
offers 

t Pre-Cana Programs 
t which meet diocesan regulations 
across the country 
t 
t 
t 

f Host Couple Program 
A 4-5 sessions 
-Pre-Cana Information Meeting for Engaged Couples : 
' $25 
t

T JJE _R.QAD~O_f_ THE_jjiE2,.R._I___S_______!DCf.._\/'RCf 
t

directed by Pre-Cana Weekend t $80 
Tuesday, January 21 at

JR..J.D.f£N__!D~_ 
t 
when t February 7-8 7:30pm in the Badin Hall officf March 7-8 
April 11-12
J_f.B. 7-9 t 
where 
t 

CR 0 W_E'_S__HDJJ5__£=-ML__ t Call University Ministry contact t Badin Office: 239-5242 
_UNlVfRSl_T_y___ M/NISTRY_. 
sign-up deddline OFFICE OF

J?&N. 3t, 86 
UNIVERSITY MINISTRY 

~4CJtt:JlC3L~-------------------------------------Th--ur_s_da_y_,J_a_n_uary_._l_6,_1_9_8_6___
P_ag_e_l_5 


Bloom County Berke Breathed 
Cll<f1Y &tlffl.eM€N ... 
1H~ TT?/N.. I~ Pl?f¥'/ANG. t£T'5 5E£ II t.I1TlE f?MUNG H6?f..
-

Zeto Kevin. Walsh 
51R, DO T~E"SF
THArS RI&HT. 't'OUPE ALL

I KNOW 1./H'r' A L.OT OF" WELL E3DY'S ANI> GIRlS 
GoiNEr ro 8E Resl'bNstBLE 

HAVE TO 9€ L.II<C:
'fOU SI6NEP <A' f(:.1R tW I've: Oc:1r 1'11£\.15 RlR '100! 
TI'PED two 1-lAliC:
RlR HANDING IN AIW'EIC

CLAss. vou 1-!EARC> FROM I've T~6ti€NED tR! 
AI ~E ~"b6F TI-lE 

THESIS SUI>rfi'1£f\IT'SII 

•
M'1 FOfU"1£R 51Ul€NT5" NO OIIIESE\.€RE:aN6TO 
5cMCSTCR.. IW'f QUemON.S 

ANt>

~~ I lo/AS A LENIENT CALL.f'JlE ~E"A9r'-A. IBID" 
our TliE.iiE? •• • Y£.s ~

GIW:€R. A&\tN! 
ACROSS 1 Hands 5 Passages 
10 Alphabet run 14 Maleficent 15 Pool shot 16 "In corpore-" 17 Rattling sound 16 Cheer 19 Clincher 20 "-can make 
history" 
(Wilde) 22 Aleut 24 Poetic word 25-podrlda 26 Eddie's wife 27 Awry 29 Gulla' cousins 32 Cey or Guidry 34 Squealers 36 "Gold Bug" 
author 37 Malls 39 Stuck 41 Detonation 43 Strange 
44 Russ. village C> 1986 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 
1/16/86
All Rogh1S Reserved

45 Flying prefix 46 Fldo's doc 47 Jury group 6 Actress Tyne 49 Plggery 7 George's 
L I ARIPIALEYIWHO.
I S l E EIN 0 l A H0 P S 52 Rose's man 8 Demolishes 
50 Turk. title lyricist 
B l I P N 0 B E l E P E E 54 Ratite bird 9 -a rat 
R A VE S~ ~~ C T A R I N E 
56 Lech's kin 10 Egyptian 
A M E N I T Y 
lllp E­

58 Upset winner goddess 1-T R I M S 0 SCAR 62 -breve 11 Religious 
AM 


I E.FOAMEO.ABA 
63 14pounds flower? 
C A N R E F UT E A S N E E R
65 Nimble 12 Massage 
T I 

C. ~E N T. UN DE
66 Soothsayer 13 "-Doone" 
S lANG S T E E P­
67-plexus 21 Scrap 
1-ALEC~ANATOLE
68 A Turner 23 Slugger Hank 69 One-time 25 "AChorus 
c 0 N IN I A"lll l s
A l E G A GG I E A l A S 70 Pointless 27 Mouths 
movie czar Line" song 
P A R E C A R T S l I M E 71 Br. gun 28 Lose color 
.FOR TRAYS SEAN 30 Fleuret DOWN 31 Gat 1/16/86 1 Queenof 33 Mountain In 42 Vogue 55 Vapors
heaven Thessaly 44 West or Murray 57 Com units 2 Author Hunter 35 Dry 47 Detroit eager 58 Breeze 3 Bell-shaped 37 Unadulterated 48 Zodiac sign 59 Sassy
flower 38 Hurting 50 Floating 60 Fish eater 4 Lowly cadet 40 Hayworth 51 Botanical 61 Baseballer 5 Scored on and Gam helmet Nolan serve 41 Cardgame 53 Lowest voices 64 Corrlda cheer 
Shark nerds always ran the projector 
Campus 
•4:00 P.M.-Radiation Laboratory Seminar, •7:00 P.M. · SMC Basketball, SMC vs. Tri· 
"Radiolytlc Production of Hydrogen from State , Angela Athletic Facility, Water", Dr. Pavel Polevol, ND Radiation •7:30 P.M.· Program ctfUberal Studies Stu­Laboratory and Mendeleev Institute ofChemi­dent Faculty Meedna, "The Great 
cal Technology, Moscow, Conference Conversation," Prof. Frederick Crosson, Theater Radiation Laboratory, Memorial Ubrary Lounge, 
Dinner Menus 
Saint Mary's Taco Bar Sweet & Sour Pork Spinach Lasagna Broccoli Cheddar Quiche 
-· 

TV Tonight 
6:30P.M. 16 NBC Nightly News 9:30P.M. 16 NightCoun 22 CBS Evening News !O:OOP.M. 16 Hill Street Blues 28 ABC's World News Tonight 22 Knot5 Landing 
7:00P.M. 16 M.A.S.H 28 20/20 22 Three's Company 34 Chappy Goes to Mardi Gras 28 jeopardy 46 Manna for Modem Man 
7:30P.M. 16 Barney Miller ll:OOP.M. 16 News<:enter 16 22 WKRP In Cincinnati 22 EyewltneM News 28 Wheel of Fonune 28 NewsWatch 28 
8:00P.M. 16 The Cosby Show 34 Monty Python :z:z Magnum, PI 46 Praise the Lord 28 Shadow Chasers 11:30P.M. 16 Tonight Show 34 ~4 Front 28 ABC News Nightline 
8:30P.M. 16 Family Ties 34 Star Trek 46 Ught For Uving t:zA.M. 28 Eye on HoUywood 
9:00P.M. 16 Cheers !2:30A.M. 16 David Letterman 22 Simon &: Simon 1:30A.M. 16 At the Movietl 28 The Colby's 22 Nightheat/CBS late Movie 34 Mystery: "The Body in the 2:00A.M. :z:z Nightwatch 
Ubrary" 46 Independent Network News 46 LeseaAlive 
CAMPUS 

ADVEimSING REP 
Be ~ponsible for placing advertising material.' on your campus buHetin boards. Work on exciting marketing programs for clients such as American Express, AT &T, Sony and Sierra Qub. Choose your own hours. Good experience and great money! For more infonnation call, 1·800·426·5537 9·5 pm. (West Coast time) 
Representa!M Program American Passage 500 Third Ave West Seattle, WA 98119 
The Student 
EASY RIDER 
Activities Board 
TO AND FROM CHICAGO'S O'IIAilE EVERY 2 HOURS EVERY DAY
Presents ... 
RISKY 
United Limo
Fri and Sat ~II!lUI
BUSINESS
Jan17&18 7,9,11 pm Remember to bring lltflir' 
10844 McKonley Hwy Osceola ~, ,IUIUIIIIIHII
$1 your sunglasses! ' .., ~~t'~ llllllljjiWIIl
674.. 6993 
No Food or Beverages Allowed 255-3068 ~~1111111 ' ~ 'IIIN nHIIIJI
lbllllllllll'lllIlleI I ' IJllllllllllllllllr.l
or call your Travel Aqenl ·i' . ~ hiHIIIIII'illll II
•••••••••••••••••••••• ·: t 
~~------~-~--~--
SRorts 
ND women's basketball team at 7-5 after home win against Marquette 
By MARlY BURNS 
and LARRY BURKE 
AsststontSportsEditors 
After a lengthy holiday road trip that saw them split four games, the Notre Dame women's basketball team was glad to return home to the ACC to face Marquette Monday night. The Irish made it a happy homecoming by defeating the War­riors, 75-42, to raise their record to 7-5. 
~ 
At the Miami Burger King Classic 
•I 
I in Coral Gables, Fla., the Irish lost 
~ -lt 
I the opener toJames Madison, 53·51, I but bounced back to defeat South­I wet Texas State, 68-43, and host
~ 
t 
Miami, 59-53. 
I 
I Senior Trena Keys was named to 
~ 
I the all-tournament team after pacing ~ the Irish scoring attack in all three I games. Keys scored 22 points 
I 
I I against james Madison, 16 againstI Southwest Texas State, and 22 against Miami, while pulling down 23 rebounds in the three games. 
Notre Dame's two-game winning 
~ 
streak came to a halt at Rutgers, however, as the Irish fell to the 18th­[ ranked Lady Knights, 69-61. "I thought we did some good
! things in Miami and at Rutgers," said Irish head coach Mary DiStanislao. "But we didn't put our entire game toaether every time on the floor. One game our intensity would be there but our execution wouldn't. Another game we just wouldn't have the intensity for the entire 40 minutes. We know what we have to improve if we want to win our con­ference title. We know that it is going to take an all-out etlort from each player ifwe want a shot at post­season play." Here is a recap of the last six Irish games: 
ND 75, Marquette 42 
The Irish were glad to be back on friendly ground Monday when they tipped otJ against Marquette at the ACC. Either that or they was just glad to be facing the Warriors. 
After a disappointing road trip over the semester break, the Irish were all smiles once again as they ad­ministered a 75-42 thrashing of the outmanned Warriors. The victory came as no surprise to Notre Dame, which hammered Marquette by 44 points earlier in the season, but it was a great homecoming nevenhe­less for head coach Mary DiStanis­lao's troops. 
"We played a pretty good game and it was great to be back here playing at home again," said DiS­tanislao. "But we're still far from ac­hieving real consistency in our performance." 
This consistency could be no problem for the Irish in their up­coming homestand against Nonh Star Conference foes if they get the same type of performance they showed against the Warriors. Sop­homore center Sandy Botham spurred a torrid first half for the home team as it shot 61 percent from the floor to take a 40-12 lead to the locker room at the intermission. 
The 6-2 center's 10 points and five rebounds keyed the Irish assault that inflated the score from 20-9 to 40-12 over the last six minutes of the half. On the defensive end of the court, Botham and Keys spearheaded an in­surmountable Notre Dame defense that limited the Warriors to a mere 17 percent shooting average from the floor. 
This onslaught by the Irish before the halfsealed the fate of Marquette and allowed DiStanislao to give her reserve players a good amount of playing time before the real con­ference race begins. Every player on the Notre Dame roster saw action, including freshman forward Heidi Bunek who scored four points in her first appearance since being sidelined since early December with a stress fracture. 
In addition to the solid perfor­mances by Keys ( 14 points, seven rebounds) and Botham ( 13 points, nine rebounds), the Irish got their usual good performances from point guard Mary Gavin (six assists) and shooting guard Lynn Ebben ( 12 points). Reserve forward Kathy Brommeland, meanwhile, con­tinued her fine play otlthe bench by contributing eight points and seven rebounds in 16 minutes ofplay. 
Rutgers 69, ND 61 

For 34 minutes and 59 seconds in New Brunswick, N.J., last Thursday it seemed the Notre Dame women's basketball team had salvaged its road trip and its NCAA tournament hopes. 
But that all came crashing down with a 1 5-foot shot by Rutgers' Janet Malouf that broke a 51-51 tie and gave the Lady Knights a lead they would never relinquish. The 69-61 final score raised the 18th-ranked Rutgers team's record and sank Irish hopes for a post-season tourney bid to an almost irretrievable depth. 
As a national power, Rutgers was one of the teams Notre Dame had to beat to make a legitimate claim as a tournament-caliber team. But Maloufs shot signaled the end ofthis particular upset dream as the Knights made enough free throws down the stretch to send the Irish home with a split for the road trip. 
The loss was hard to take for DiS­tanislao not so much because of the NCAA tournament situation, but more because she felt her team had lost control ofthe game. 
"We had the game in hand but we didn't make our shots in the paint," said the sixth-year Notre Dame men­tor. "In a tight game like this one, you've got to think about every possession. You can't atlord a lot of turnovers." 
DiStanislao may have been think­ing of Botham's three turnovers down the stretch that helped Rut­gers hang on until the final minute when it blew a 61-59 lead into the 69-61 final. These miscues, however, should not overshadow another fine performance by the big Irish center. Botham's 17 points and nine rebounds kept Notre Dame in the game on a day when the shots were not falling for many of her teammates. 
Ofcourse, the shots continued to fall for Keys, who poured in 29 points and grabbed seven boards to pace the Irish attack. In fact it was Keys' six straight points late in the seeond half that established the 51­51 deadlock that signified such great hope for her team. 
It was just not to be for Notre Dame, though, as the Knights hit 19 of 27 foul shots in the second half to maintain their lead. 
see IRISH, page 13 
Thursday,January 16, 1986-page 16 

l'"k Obetrver/Boh Burkr 

Notre Dame forward Trena Keys reaches for the rebuu11d m center Sandy Botham (52) blocks out underneath the boards. The Irish lost this opening game in the Miami Tournament to james Madison, 53-51. Details oftheirgames overbreak at left. 
Schottenheimer joins Holtz' coaching staff 
Special to the Observer 

BATON ROUGE, La. -Kun Schottenheimer has resigned im­mediately as linebacker coach at Louisiana State University to accept a similar job at Notre Dame, the Southeastern Conference school announced Wednesday. 
Schottenheimer, 36, helped sculpt one of the nation's most for­midable college defensive units while serving as an LSU assistant for two years. His brother, Many, is head coach of the Cleveland Browns' American Football Conference Central Division cham­pions. 
Born on Oct. 1, 1949, Schottenheimer is a native ofMe Donald, Pa. He is a graduate of Ft. Cherry High School and attended Coffeyville (Kan.) Junior College, where he was an All-American quarterback. Schottenheimer completed his collegiate career at Miami (Fla.), starting two seasons as a defensive back and graduating in 1971 with a bachelor's degree in Education. 
He began his coaching career in 1974 at William Paterson State College in NewJersey. In 1977, he joined the statlat Ridgefield Park (N.J.) High School, where he spent one season. He moved to Mic­higan State in 1978 and stayed with them through the 1982 season. 
Schottenheimer coached at Tulane in 1983. Married to the former Collen Dutly, the couple has one child ­Steele. 
Crowley dead at 83; last ofthe 'Four Horsemen' 

Elmer Layden, jim Crowley and Don Mtller. Crowley was the last surviving member ofthe four. 

SCRANTON, Pa. -Football great Jim Crowley, the last surviving member of Notre Dame's famed "Four Horsemen" of the 1920s, died in a nursing home Wednesday at age 83. 
"He's been ill for quite a while," Sister Patricia, director of Holy Family Residence, said, refusing to elaborate. 
Crowley was the left halfback in the backfield immonalized by sponswriter Grantland Rice after the Fighting Irish's 1924 victory over Army. Notre Dame went on to their first national championship and a victory over Stanford in the Rose Bowl. 
Besides Crowley, the backfield consisted of Elmer Layden at ful­lback, Don Miller at right haltback and Harry Stuhldreher at quarter­back. 
Crowley said being the last of the Four Horsemen left him with "a very lonesome feeling." 
~·we used to get together quite of­ten," he said in 1980. "The last time I saw Don Miller was at Yale when we were honored in the winter of 1979." Miller died later that year. 
Crowley said Rice's designation of the Notre Dame backfield as the Four Horsemen didn't really register with him at first. 
"I thought, to be truthful, it was a nice article. I didn't think it would become a legend," he said. 
After leaving Notre Dame, Crowley coached Fordham Univer­sity to the Cotton and Sugar bowls, and coached a line that, because of its defensive prowess, became known as the Seven Blocks of Granite. One member of that line was tbe late National Football League Coach Vince Lombardi. 
Crowley later became president of the now defunct All American Football Conference and coach­owner ofthe AFL's Chicago Rockets. He worked for an import company, was industrial commissioner of Lackawanna County, which includes Scranton, and sat on the Pennsyl­vania State Athletic Commission. 
Crowley "was everyone's friend," said Edward "Moose" Krause, ath­letic director at Notre Dame for 34 years and a close friend. "He had wit, charm and s.tyle. He was gracious and warm, and he wore his success with a great deal ofhumility. 






