An Tostal-inside 

VOL. XX, NO. 133 FRIDAY, APRIL25, 1986 an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

11 Saint Mary's students in Rome come back early 
By T~IPP BALTZ and ROB HENNIG 
NewsSttiff 
Some students in the Saint Mary's Rome program have come home early, according to Assistant Professor Peter Checca, campus director of the program. 
"The students . . . have been given the option (that) if they want to come home, they can come home," Checca said. 
II students flew into New York Wednesday and 50 are remaining in Rome, according to Portia Spanu, director of the program. Checca said the program "will continue as scheduled." The semester will end for the program on May 9. 
Checca said he called the parents of the students to tell them the policy the College is adopting on the students' return. This policy was made in consultation with Ac­ting Vice President Dorothy Feigl and Spanu. 
Feigl said the College "is not recommending they come home." 
She said she conveyed this message to parents. 
"We want the parents to make the decision on their own best judg­ment," Feigl said. 
The College "would not do anything to make it difficult for returning students," Feigl added. She said Spanu will be meeting with the instructors to get exams and other materials so the students who have returned will be able to make up classes. "My expectations are 
that students who are close will pro­bably be administered their exams here, while those who are away will take theirs under proctors in their area," Feigl said. No decision has been made yet on how the returning students will complete final work in their classes. 
"These students will get credit (for their classes)," she added. 
Feigl said parents of the students watched news broadcasts of the developments in Libya and Europe over the last few weeks and became 
see ROME, page 3 


Hi Mom 
Seniors Judy Gibbons and Mark Peeler were among the many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students who gathered on the greens surrounding 
lbe~/Jim c.nou 

Lake Marion yesterday afternoon to view the An 
Tosto/ canoe races. More pictures appear in the special An Tosto/ insert inside today's issue. 
SMC Board of Regents approves divestment plans 
By ELLYN MASTAKO 
Senior Staff Reporter 
The Board of Regents of Saint Mary's College, at its meeting on April 19, approved an investment policy which incorporates a section on ethical and social responsibility for security ownership. 
The issue of divestment was brought before the Board as a result of a petition calling for the College to divest, signed by more than I)()() students last week, and a vote by the faculty assembly to recommend that the College divest. In addition, the Board approved a policy st~tement on investment in South Africa which is the first for­
mal  statement  by  Saint  Mary's  
regarding  the  issue  of  South  
African investments.  

Although Saint Mary's endowment is currently listed to be $20 million, only a relatively small portion of that endowment is involved in these South African companies, accor­ding to reports. 
Saint Mary's College President William Hickey said, "The issue of apartheid is complex and com­mands our attention. Apartheid is an unjust system which brutally op­presses non-white peoples and disenfrachises the majority of peo­ple in South Africa. Good and 
Hurley comes back to visit ND 
By BETH CORNWELL 
Sttiff reporter 
Kevin Hurley, the Notre Dame student who was injured by a hit-and-run driver while crossing U.S. 31-33 last September 7, will be arriving with his parents this afternoon to spend An Tostal weekend at Notre Dame. 
Since last December, Hurley has been undergoing rehabilita­tion at the Greenery Center in Massachusetts. 
The Hurley family will arrive at Michiana Regional Airport at 2;37 p.m. according to senior Bill Healy. 
While serving as Student Body President, Healy organiz­ed that student support of Hurley's convalescence. "We'd really like it if we could get a lot of student out to meet the plane. It would be great to pump Kevin up for his visit like that," Healy said. 
According to Kevin's father, 

Richard Hurley, the family has been hoping to make the trip for several months, but only finaliz­ed their plans two weeks ago. "We had no idea that this weekend was a special one for the University. We just wanted to see some folks, and we knew 

Kevin Hurley 

that there were a lot of folks who wanted to see Kevin," Richard Hurley said. 
The weekend will be largely unstructured, according to Richard Hurley. "We have to play it by ear, see what Kevin's up for. We want him to talk with Dr. (Emil) Hofman, (Vice­President for Student Affiars) Father (David) Tyson, (Rector of Howard Hall) Father (Gene) Gorski, and Bill Healy. Mostly, we just want to psych him up even more that he already is. You know, he just got his tem­porary prosthesis yesterday. Yesterday he took one step and today he took a couple more. We're not bringing it with us, though. For now, that's just for therapy." 
According to Healy, the big­gest event planned for the visit will be a Mass in Sacred Heart Church on Sunday at 4:00. 
"The Mass honoring Kevin is really the biggest deal that we've got planned. We're also hoping that, pending on his physical condition, we can have him at­tend the Blue-Gold game pep rally. He might be kind of over­whelmed by all the people, but it would be great if we could just get him down on the sidelines to see all the action," Healy said. 
honest people -disagree about the most effec;tive means for bringing about changes in what we all agree is an evil systC\Jl. 
"It is theBoard's considered judg­ment that the policy of selective in­vestment represents the most effec­tive way of witnessing to our con­victions." 
.Panies doing business in South 
Africa that have not signed the 'sullivan Principles shall be sold within the next 30 days and management shall be advised of the reason for the sale ... 
The Sullivan Principles are a set of ruJes devised by an American priest concerning the equality of treat-

Saint Mary's new investment policy ment of all races in the workplace. states that "all common stocks, held by the College, of all com-see DIVF.ST, page 4 
South Africa repeals 'influx control' laws 
Al80dated Press 

Johannesburg, South Africa 
President P.W. Botha said yester­
day that lifting pass laws for blacks 
means "a new era of freedom" for 
this troubled land, but critics claim 
a tough new security law undercuts 
the reform. 

On Wednesday the white govern­
ment suspended enforcement of 
laws restricting the movements of 
blacks and introduced legislation to 
repeal them, but also proposed giv­
ing police greater powers in . designated unrest areas. 
Leaders of the United Democratic Front, the coalition against apartheid, said the propos­"e9 security law will give the law and ~order minister "almost dictatorial powers" and urged blacks to form 
self-defense committees. 
Botha said in a full-page adver­
tisement published in several major newspapers that his government :had confounded its detractors by 
delivering on a pledge to abolish 
the pass laws. 
The hated regulations, officially called influx control, have been cornerstones of apartheid. They severely restrict where blacks can travel, live and work. 
Botha's new policy will allow blacks to live wherever they can find an approved site, but residen­tial areas still will be segregated. 
'Rural blacks still may not be able to move to the cities because little housing is available in urban black areas . 
"The pass laws have gone," Botha said. "The prisons are emp­tied of the victims of this unhappy system. No South African will ever suffer the indignity of arrest for a pass offense aga:in. 
"The new South Africa will be a land where all decent people can 
j 
sleep with their doors open. A land where we can look each other in the 

1 
see BOTHA, page 5 

I 
----~---~-------~ 
Friday, April25, 1986 -page 2 

GPA or lottery system: Dorms should consider both 
I love Jesus" burned record albums, cassettes, and other rock and 
country music paraphernalia after attending a seminar in which an 
As the year draws to a close, returning students at evangelist said the "Mr. Ed" television theme conveys a satanic 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are forced to take care message to unwary listeners. Jim Brown, an evangelist at Psalms 
of a few procedural affairs before flying free for the ISO in South Point, said the Mr. Ed theme extols Satan when the 
summer. One of these is making dorp1 room picks. record is played backwards. "A horse is a horse" contains the 
·With it. comes a perennial argument ahtong residents backward messages "the source is Satan" and "someone sung this 
of dorms having different room pick s\i~r;tiors. t..?uring thenext few wet;~1,J.et9.rhirt~ 1'sf~dents onsong for Satan," Brown said during the seminar at the First 
att~~iJIS·..W~blf~h~smg-"1fface to hve on or
Church of the Nazarene in Ironton, Ohio. -AP 
off campus. The majority of students will be living under the light of the Golden Dome, preferably stay­Two Mellon Fellowships in the Humanities were 
ing in the same dorm. awarded to Barbara Rodriguez, a senior English major from El 
All dorms follow a seniority-based room pick Paso, Texas and James Lewis, a senior philosophy major from 
system. That is, seniors-to-be have priority in choos­
ing the best rooms over juniors-to-be, who are next to 
South Bend. Selected from 1,565 candidates, Rodriguez and Lewis 
pick, the sophomores-to-be are next, and the incom­
were among 123 American and Canadian students to receive an 
ing freshmen are stuck with the leftovers. There$8,500 cash stipend for postgraduate study. -The Observer 
seems to be a broad consensus in adhering to this system. But from this point on, agreement breaks down.
Father Edmund Joyce, Notre Dame executive vice 
Most of the dorms follow a random lottery system 
president and treasurer since 1952, will be awarded the "Helping 
-for choosing who will get preference in room picks.
Hands Award" by Hospice of St. Joseph County, [ric. at a June 3 
These dorms receive a computer-generated sheet from 
dinner. The annual award is given to a member of the Michiana 
the Office of Student Residences listing students• community for outstanding community service. -The Observer 
Joe! M'1 bucld'1 !

names in random order. Those who are at the top of the list are lucky; they will be picking first in their each student has a stake in the process and controls class. Those rounding out the bottom of the list may the system. 
Brigitte Bardot, the former French movie star, went to be forced to make a lucky friend fast. • A GP A-based selection system is biased toward 
bat for turtle-doves Tuesday as part of her continuing campaign 
There are two dorms, Grace and Pangborm, that do students enrolled in "easy" colleges, some believe. A
for animal rights. Bardot met with French Interior Minister 
not pick by random lottery. Instead, room picks are business major has a better chance to get an "A," it 
Charles Pasqua whose office later told reporters that the minister 
determined by GP A. The senior-to-be with the highest seems, than a chemical engineering major. While this 
assured Bardot that a pending law to protect turtle-doves and pro­
cumulative GP A picks first and so on down the line. seems hard for me to accept, it has validity. Students 
hibit their hunting in the Medoc region of France would be enforc­
As a Grace Hall resident, I have been involved in enrolled in the College of Emgineering tend to receive
ed as planned in May. Bardot, 51, has spendt much of the past 10 
extremely heated arguments with friends from other lower grades than students in other colleges. In this years as an avid animal rights activist. -AP 
dorms. What I have found is that beth ways of pick­sense, the GPA selection process works to the disad­ing rooms had avid supporters, and almost everyone vantage of those in engineering and possibly any field takes sides on which system is better. Let me field a of science. few arguments for and against both systems. 
• Advocates of selection also state that this un­
Of Interest 

Students with cars must move them from the D-1 parking lot and the area around the stadium by 8 a.m. tomorrow. These area have been reserved because of "the overwhelming press response ·to the Blue and Gold game," said Notre Dame Security Director Rex Rakow. Students may move their cars to any parking area not reserved, including Green Field, he said. -The Observer 
Lou Holtz Notre Dame head football coach, will be the featured speaker at the Blue and Gold pep rally tonight at 7. In .-e of rain the event will be held in the ACC's main arena. The 
Observer 

Filipino Youth and faith in the 21st century will be discussed by Rev. Rafael Borromeo, S.J., and three graduates of Xavier University, Cagayan de Oro City, Phillipines, tonight at 
7:30 in the Memorial Library auditorium. The discussion will in­clude videotapes, slides and performances of Filipino music and dance. The presentation is sponsored by Notre Dame's Filipino students, the Center for Social Co_ncerns and the Association of Filipino Americans in Michiana. The Observer. 
Mock LSAT will be administered free of charge by the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Pre-Law Society tomorrow from 10 
a.m. to 1 p.m. in room 122 of Hayes-Healy. For more informa­tion, call 283-2539. All students are welcome to attend. The Observer 

Weather 

Get the Shades out. Mostly sunny and warm today with the high in the mid to upper 70s. Fair tonight with lows near 55. Mostly sunny and warm tomorrow with highs in the upper 70s to near 80. 



_Ihe ObserYer___= 
fM Observer is continuing to ex­periena tyJ)e#tting difficulties in _....._ the daily operation of the
~--·:-;=~---~spaper. The sttiff apolo~kes for ::·...-·;·~ any (fi/ays or production erro~. The · sitJiiltion will be ame!Uhd as soon as 
"'f -1'.If' possible. 
1be Obeerver (liSPS S99 l-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. lbe Obec:rver is published by thoe students ofth., l"niversity of Notr-e Damoe and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for J30 per year ( JlO per semester) by writing 1be Obeerver, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 46SS6. 
1be Obeerver is a member of lbe Aslociated Press. All re,•roduction rights are resrrved. 
.,, 
"-1 
' 
·.;. 
\
.·
·. 

• Proponents of random-selection stress that their system is fairer. They say that a GPA selection puts undue emphasis on grades. As if the pressures here to perform well academically weren't as great as it is, they add, the added pressure of having one's room tied to one's grades just doesn't give everyone a fair shake. 
Director of Student Residences Evelyn Reinebold commept, "I really think that the random lottery is the fairest',l~stem). The students with a low GPA maype neecil~~t~i' 
• A ~r.rucm....Js ...~f.liOJll',l_ WM 1Q choose rooms; 'l'f'l>~BHM!thetotherliiDI!' •sayn Choosing rooms by GP A, on the other hand, gives everyone a chance to earn their room pick. This does not rely on a random and impersonal computer to spew out names to determine where to live. Instead, 
fairness in GP A selection comes off as a punishment for those who can't cut it. GP A proponents stress that a room pick should be thought of as a reward, and thus, a good room is one more incentive to achieve good 
grades. 
One thing is sure: whatever system is employed should be approved by the dorm on a regular basis. Living in Grace Hall for three years, I believe in the system of GPA selection. The last two years the dorm residents voted overwhelmingly to continue its pre­sent policy. This year, however, Grace Hall neglected to vote on the issue. 
Hopefully, other dorms will reconsider their own policies periodically. The particular selection process should reflect the opinion of the residents of the hall; traditions should not be forced upon anyone . 
PRO-TYPE 
Do you need a dissertation or book typed? Qualified, referenced. 
277-5833 


Attention Clubs and Halls 
Due to LaFortune Renovations, the Treasurer's Office is closing early. 
All check requests for 1985-86 funds MUST be received by 

MONDAY, APRIL 28 at 4pm 
The Observer Friday, Apri125, 1986 -page 3 
RASTA plans benefit week of cultural enlightenment 
By MARA SMITH 
News Staff 
A Reggae concert will highlight a week-long series of events spon­sored by RASTA, Rally Against Starvation, to increase awareness of the ongoing hunger crisis in many African countries, according to RAST A president Cathyanne Reynolds. 
RAST A encourages "internaliza­tion" of African issues rather than mere "sympathy" for the victims, according to Reynolds. 
"I think that RAST A is trying to achieve an impact on the local com­munity which internalizes the issues of Africa and the crisis rather than just symphathize with the African people," she said. 
In sponsoring culture-related events, RAST A attempts to both increase the local community's ap­preciation of the African culture and raise money to aid the African people in their struggle with famine. 
"The easiest way to internalize things is to take part," Reynolds said. 
Highlighting this coming week's events is a Reggae concert schedul­ed for Saturday, May 3, from 8 p.m. to 2 a.m. at Stepan Center. 

The Ethiopian Reggae group Dallol will head the performance and will be joined by the Pat Giblin Band and the Bulldogs Blues Band. 
Tickets are $5 and will be on sale at the dining halls and at the other RAST A sponsored events, accor­ding to Kevin Ledley, producer of the concert. 
Dallol recently released an album called "Land of Genesis." The album was produced by Rita Marley, the widow of Reggae per­former Bob Marley. 
RAST A organizes the concert annually to give the local communi­ty a sense of the African spirit por­trayed in the lyrics of Reggae music. 
According to Ledley, RAST A is concerned with the preservation of the African culture as well as the 
current famine.  
-~<It's  more  than  a  hunger  pro­ 
blem,"  said  Ledley.  "There  is  a  
culture we are trying to save."  

In addition to the concert, other events will take place this weekend, starting at 8 p.m. tonight at Lee's Ribs with an all you can drink special for $4. 
Monday's events will include "Rasta Java," which will take place 
RASTA WEEK 
SPLASHES OFF 


RE§~A~·'e·~lfl
FRIDAY, APRIL 25 
AT 


fun Dackinto student 



demonstrations. 

---~le putsthe 


All you have to do is march yourself down to your campus microcomputer center before May 15th and spend five fun-packed minutes letting us demonstrate how aMacintosh™ computer can make life much more pleasant for you. 
In retun1, we'll enter vour name into a drawing where one very lucky person on campus will win the grand prize of five hundred dollars. 
Thats $500. Cash. American. To 
spend on your education, or some­thing really worthwhile. 
And, for those of you with the average amount of luck, there are free Apple® painters caps for every­one who comes in and learns how a Macintosh can help 
you work better, faster, and smarter. 
Its one demonstra­tion that could change your life. 

NOTRE DAME COMPUTER STORE 
No purcbt~'il' nertt..'ii/1)' 7/J htt"l»>ll! eli}!.ihiejilrprizes. ea;:hpt~rliciptm/must.fiU oultbt•mtry•/ilrm prrxidl'Cl a1 pmlicipalill}!. tm(·rocomputer. centers. Wlnm'r.l' need 
no/ he{m'St'llf to 11111. Oddstkpetul on the numhero/mln~almdJioCtllion: all{lrizes ui/Theaurmkrl Lislr!fprizt• 117111/l'r.l'oblainedlr,•semlill}!. sr/faddri!SS(!(/ l'lll't'lo(!l'lo Gary· ,I/. Rl')'llokl' f...Awidal~.lllc.. 16)35 lr8/~nowld Rollt/ HrTKJ/ifie/d. lf'7 53005. © 19/16Apple Computer. Inc. Apple.and tb! A{l{lk fORO tlTI' 1'1'/(llihmllrtllletnar/is ofApple (,tllllpaler: Inc. ,\la<"llltlm "t1 lrtltletnark qj.l/c/niiA'!b Ltibrl7't/lor): Inc and is her!/}!. u.'!l'Ci uilh it'! 1!.~fH'1111i.mim. Morr delails tn'tliiliblt• tillfJUr ftllll/11,,. mt{·mmmpult'T' Miler: · 
outside the Center for Social Con­cerns from 8 p.m. to midnight. Mugs will be sold and can be filled with free coffee throughout the night. Students will also have the opportunity to join their musical talents in an open jam session. 
The New Age Mothers and the American Dream will perform Wednesday at Saint Mary's from 6 p.m, to 8 p.m. on the terrace at Haggar Student Center. 
On Thursday, a DJ will play Reggae music at the Fieldhouse Mall from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m., and bread will be distributed. 
Proceeds from the week's events will be divided between two organizations dedicated to main­taining African culture in long­term development programs. RAST A members have conducted ext«nsive research in choosing Ox­fam and CODEL as the beneficiaries of this year's pro­ceeds. 
Under the CODEL program, money from the RAST A proceeds will go towards researching and implementing a development pro­gram for an African community, giving the Notre Dame/Saint Mary':; community the opportunity to see the results of its efforts. 
This program also allows the local community to be involved with the African community for more than just one week. 
Rome 
continuedfrom page I 
concerned for their children. She 
said the parents called them and the 
College "to ask what was happen­
ing." 
"The operations on (the Rome) 
campus are going on as you would 
expect it," Feigl added. In addition 
to the regular functioning of the 
Saint Mary's program, Feigl said 
programs of other schools are also 
remaining, although some students 
are choosing to return. 
"There are 40 American universi­
ty programs in Italy, and not one of 
them has found the situation too 
difficult to move out," said Spanu. 
"If the students were to be in any 
danger, we would, of course, close 
down the program," Checca added. 
None of the Notre Dame foreign 
study programs in Europe and the 
Middle East are returning or giving 
their students the option to return, 
according to Assistant Provost 
Isabel Charles, director of the 
University's programs. "Our own 
are not returning at this point," 
she said. However, a field trip to 
Sicily for the Rome Architecture 
Program was cancelled, according 
to Alice Wesoloski, administrative 
assistant at the Architecture 
Department. 
"We've heard of no problems at 
all," Charles said. She added that 
the directors of the programs in 
Cairo and Jerusalem have said the 
situations there are "very peaceful." 
"There is some anti-American 
sentiment," she said, but added, 
·~the directors have counseled the 
s,tudents not to travel to the main 
41ties in this period and to keep a 
!O:w profile. 
"Students are aware that there is ~a possibility of problems," said Mary Davidson, admissions officer 
•.

for American University in Cairo, 
~ 

'trK,.qi>Jit,school for the Cairo pro­
,:..•

gram. 
Davidson said~..... a=•t ~r,· 
sions in the Middle Easr, ~oUid: 
say the fear of terrorism is greatly 
exaggerated here in the United 
States." 
Wesoloski indicated that "things 
are still the same, but can change at 
any minute" at the Rome Architec­
ture Program. 
·"' 
~---~-------~------------­

-----~---------~--...---~-­
The Observer Friday, April25, 1986 {_ page 4 

Divest 
continuedfrom page 1 
They make a commitment for the businesses to: 
Use. their influence and support the unrestricted rights of black businesses to locate in the urban areas of the nation. 
Influence other companies in South Africa to follow the stan­dards of equal rights principles. 
Support the freedom of mobility of black ,workers to seek employ­ment opportunities wherever they 
exist.  
Support  the  rescission  of  all  
apartheid laws.  
The policy  continues,  "No  in­ 

vestments in the common stock debt securities of any financial in­stitution currently making loans to the government of South Africa will be purchased. None are presently held in the fund." 
The third part of the new invest­ment policy states that, "For the present, the College will continue to hold securities of signatories of the amplified Sullivan Principles so that the College may show support for those companies that are trying to improve conditions in South Africa. The Regents will continue to monitor these companies for j>erformance." 
According_ t(\ Hickey, "Following many hours ot deliberation and debate, the Regents approved the new policy! In arriving at this posi­
tion, the Regents emphasized the 
need to conduct a continued review 
of the College's policy on invest­
ment in South Africa." 
Peacemakers, a campus group 
dedicated to addressing issues of 
social injustice, was a major force 
behin'd both the petition and facul­
ty resolution. 
"My personal reaction to the new 
policy is that I'm very grateful that 
Saint Mary's has taken a first step," 
said Sister Mary Turgi, a member 
of Peacemakers. 
"The major difference of opinion with the Board of Regents' decision is whether or not the Sullivan Prin­ciples hold true. One can have quite a good rating on the Sullivan Prin­ciples and still be supporting the present government in South Africa," she said. 
In addition to Saint Mary's in­vestments, the Sisters of the Holy ·cross also have investments in companies doing business in South Africa. They, too, have recently formulated a Policy of divestment. 
Sister Francis Bernard, Superior General of the order, said, "The Sisters of the Holy Cross, after study and research of the South African situation in light of our own mission and philosophy, are taking immediate steps to remove from our investment portfolios those corporations which have holdings in South Africa. All Holy Cross sponsored institutions are en­couraged to take similar action." 


' 

• (f 
620 W Wr~c,hmgton. Sourh Bend. 234·9077
620 W Washinglon. Soulh Bend. 234-9077 
Re-..ervdi!Clnc. dva1lablf'
Reservarions available 
• . 

So you thought Spring Break was overl Well not at Tippecanoe Place. We are extending Spring Break with a special offerfor students. Bring this ad in/or a special price 'Break'. 

$1.00 OFF ourfabulous Sunday Brunch Good on thefollowing Sundays: 
April 27, &May 4. 


620 lN. Washing·ton St. --Reservations Required --234 -9077 
The Department of Communications and Theater at St Mary's presents a ND/SMC Theater production of 
choreographed by 

WES7

Jerome Robbins 
Musical Score comoosed by Leonard Bernstein 
SIO~t­
Lyrics by Stephen Sondheim 


SiiiR ~,

Book by Arthur Laurents May 1,2,3, and 15,16,17, at 8:10p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium at St. Mary's College For information call the box Office at 284-4626 

HERTZ FEATURES THE EXCITING FORD THUNDERBIRD 
• 
All Major Credit Cdrds Accepted 

• 
Call For Our low University Rates and Holiday Special' 

• 
Current Notre Dame and Sl. Mary I.D.'s Accepted, With a Cash Deposit. Must be 18 or Older. 




We have dropped our rates and increased ourfree mileage, so get the gang together andshare the costfor a weekend break. 
MICHIANA REGIONAL AIRPORT 
234-3712 



OPENING LATE SPRING 198611 
IN OLD LATHE WORKS PROJECT ON THE EAST RACE 475 N. NILES AV SOUTH BEND, IN. 
234-1954 
55 ROOMS RESTAURANT/LOUNGE MARINA {FALL '86)/BOAT RENTALS KITCHEN'ETTES 
~·············~··································~··~
* • 
~ ~··•• Meet: •~••: ~ 
* * • •
$ ~ Notre Dame Football Coach ~ ! 
** • 
~ "******************** ~ i* LOUHOLTZ i• ~ "******************** ~
* •
: at the BLUE & GOLD Pep rally ~ 
* •
* •
* •
~ Friday, april 25, 7:00pm ~ 
* Enter Northwest Stadium Gates •
* •
* •
* •
* •
* •
* •
: *If rain: Main Arena of the ACC 7:00 pm ~ 
* 
iC • •

* 
iC . • • 


~ ~Sponsored by the Around the Corner Club and Student Government~ ~ 
* ~ ~ •
..... ...... 
.............~··································~····· 
------....
---~~----------------~­
The Observer Friday, April 25, 1986 -page 5 

AP Photo

Night Light 
A Tomahawk cruise missile carrying a /000-pound conventional . warhead explodes over its test target, a refitted aircraft on San Clemente Island, California. 

AFTER PLAYING ALL DAY IN THE SUN AT AN TOSTAL EVENTS, COME FOR A COLD BEER OR WINE COOLER. 

• 
MICHEWB 


STILL HUNGRY? ORDER SOME NACHOS OR A GYRO. 
'A FUN PLACE TO BE. A GOOD PLACE TO EAT.' 
SUMMER IN CHICAGO AT liT FOR 119 WAYS TO: 

• 
119 undergraduate or graduate courses to choose from 

• 
8 week summer session-June 16 to August 8 

• 
Day and evening classes 

• 
Main Campus and Extension Centers 

• 
Ample FREE parking 

• 
Mail pre-registration available 


FOR INFORMATION CALL TOLL-FREE: 1-800-448-2329 
Ask for: Mary Edwards 
ILLINOIS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY 3300 South Federal Streef Chicago. Illinois 60616 


Grace Hall to run charity relay 
By JIM RILEY 
South, and Main Quads, and there 
Copy Editor 
will be an additional half-mile loop around the Memorial Library for Grace Hall residents will sprint people with only about five minutes around campus for 24 hours this left on their shift, said Schwen­weekend in a relay run to raise 
inger. 
money for Northeast 
"Our goal is for 175 rpiles, which Neighborhood Services. 
is feasible if each participant runs a The run, in its third year, begins minimum of two miles per shift,"today at noon and will continue un­he said. 
til noon tomorrow, according to In addition to mileage goals, the junior Joe Schweninger, a Grace Grace residents also have moneyresident and coordinator of the 
goals. Last year, the run collected run. $1400 in pledges, and they hope to 
The 24-hour period is divided in­at least match that amount this 
to 20-minute shifts, said Schwen­year, according to Schweninger. 
inger. Seventy-two Grace residents will 
He said a typical pledge of "two run these shifts, with some taking 
cents per mile, if we meet our goal more than one shift and some sign­
of 175 miles, would come to $3.50. ing up for split shifts with their 
We accept pledges per mile or flat roommates, according to Schwen­
donations." inger. 
Pledges and donations will be ac­The course itself is a one-mile 
cepted in the dining halls during loop whic,h winds through North, 
lunch today and at the run's 
c.;--rif~OOrr-0')('"'XOO~OOir)(O"")(jO0("')1""0~oorx-ox-xoo~oox-xo"'lt"'loOc-x-0")("')0onro-x-xot10 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 ~_; ~ 
GOODBYE SCOOTER... ~ See you next year' 
~0 


~~~£ ·GRSAt 'Vt'LC.. 

Serving the Best Szechuan and Hunan Cuisine 
Hospitality and Reasonable Prices *Pork with Garlic Sauce $5.45 *Chicken with Hot Pepper Sauce $5.75 
Now accepting reservations for Graduation Weekend. 
Mon. ·Thurs.: 11 :30am-10pm For carry out
Bar open 7 days a week Fri. -Sal.: 11:30am-11pm or
130 Dixie Highway South Sun. Ill Holidays South Bend, Indiana reservations 11:30am-10pm Happy Hour: 5pm-7pm 
On u.a.a1 Ned!• MidItt....,...1M 272-7376 

ee•sRib 
/!7/,e fiJOdO ~ lk [j?au.c4! ~~.. 

THE RHYTHM KINGS 
FEATURING MEMBERS OF Duke Tomato Band 
Specioliz.ing in Old Motown 

' 
SATURDAY NIGHT after the game [ 9:00pm-? :
$~~ ~e~""" """"' _,. ::. 


Fieldhouse Mall tent during the event, he said. 
The proceeds will be forwarded to Northeast Neighborhood Coun­cil, Inc., said Schweninger. 
This non-profit organization helps those who are needy but are not eligible for help from govern­ment programs, that is, "those who have fallen through the cracks," said Arthur Quigley, professor of engineering and president of the council. 
The organization runs a nutrition center, does income tx forms, gives food to the poor, helps pay utility bills, repairs houses, runs special 
prograllls,  and  generally  does  
"anything  that  helps  the  
neighborhood," said Quigley.  

The organization, which serves the northeast part of South Bend and a part of Mishawaka, last year operated with funds of $44,000 for about. 400 families and employed "only one-half of a staff person," according to Quigley. 
Since the organization recently lost its state funding, "we scratch along with what we get from chur­ches and things like the Grace Hall run," Quigley said. 
Motives for participation in the run are equally divided between a desire to help charity and a desire to increase hall spirit, said Mike Mara, a Grace resident. 
''We're trying to make this a Grace Hall tradition," said Schwen­inger. This is the second year the run has been a hall-wide event, hav­ing started as a one-section event, he said. 



Both a 
continuedfrompage 1 
eye. Without fear or hatred. 
"And it will come about. Not because I say so, but because my government and I have the power to make it happen." 
Black leaders welcomed aboli­tion of the pass laws, but said the governmenl has not indicated it will address their demand for a share of political power. The apartheid race policy has maintained supremacy for South Africa's 5 million whites aw:l denied rights to the 24 million blacks for generations. 
Murpl!y~Morobe, spokesman for the United Democratic Front, said those praising the initiative "must remember that these repealed laws have already broken up families, led to the deaths of thousands of 
\)1acks and  cost  untold misery  to  
millions  of  disenfranchised  
Africans."  

Saint Augsburger Day Specials 


Kegs: StrQhs/Bud half barrels •••••••• $31.88 Busch/Old Mill half barrels .....$26.88 
$8.99 • • • • • • • • • • • • • Augsburger case $8.99 
••••••••••••• StrQh's30 pack
$7.99 • • • • • • • • • • • • • Helneken 12 pack $5.49 • • • • • • • • • • • • • GQebels case $9.99 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • MlcheiQb 1r 
Regular cases
CORKTOWNE 

LIOUORS, INC. 277-6805 
184~0UTH BEND AVE. 
State Road 23. '• m11e wesr ot Marrm·s Supermarlcet 


-~ ------~---­







Accent 
Friday, April25, 1986-page 6-7 
"But the Dome goes on forever." 
answers. Yet there are no easy answers, only more difficult ques­Father Robert Griffin 
tions. 
"What do you think of the South 

Letters to a Lonely God 
African priest fasting on Perrier water?" 

The struggles, the suffering, and This project, undertaken by a "Some of the students are mak­the growing go on year after year. I religious community that wa's just ing him a folk hero," I said. "The look every morning, to make sure starting, has gone on successfully, campus already has Father the landmarks are in place. Maybe until now we have almost reached Hesburgh as a folk, hero who has 
protestors hijacked Sacred Heart 
and end of an era called the served us well, I don't believe in Church in the darkness; maybe the Hesburgh years. The lakes were switching folk heroes, or horses, in engineers, on their way home from here before Sorin came, but almost the middle of the stream. Anyway the bars, drained the lake as a nothing else was here except the Perrier seems very Yuppie. He'd be prank. Before going to bed after earth itself. The Building that has more charismatic on club soda." walking Darby 0' Gill II, I check:to taken place is the fulfillment of the "He's trying to enlighten the see if the Dome is lighted so Our 
origninal ideal in ther mind of a trustees about investments in South Lady can keep the nightwatch. French seminary lad wanting to un-Africa. He hopes the Holy Ghost Some tradition of grace has a home do some of the harm of fanatics. will inspire them at their spring here. A generation comes, and a All that has happened here, wisely meeting." the freshman said. generation goes; but the Dome goes 
or foolishly, has as its purpose to "He's barking up the wrong tree on forever, so it almost seems. 
benefit the students. It would be a th Holy Ghost is needed where th; mistake to claim all the memb~r of tr~uble is. Father Hesburgh and A century and a half ago, French the Holy C~nss order as samts, the trustees are not enforcing apar­missionsaries showed up here, anx­heroes, or scholars..Most of them, theid. Why is this priest wasting ious to be of service to the country ·however, together_with the lay peo-his time on Notre Dame's doorstep they were adopting. They were the ple who were theu part~ers, gave when the Afrikaners need his clout 
spiritual sons and brothers of Basil the·-~ they. had;. ,t.b~r blood. . h d' . 't . th . h I d 
. Wit IVInt y m e1r orne an Moreau, a priest who had grown up 
sweat, and tears give strength to the h th , · th s ff 

. . w ere eyre causmg e u er-in France in the decade after the .. h(icks . I have the habit o! m~kmg in ?" 1re lied. 
sure the landmarks survive ·from g P

destructiveness of the French one day to another.We are. a col-He said:
Revolution. Looking around his ''You're missing the 
•'lege, ''arid 'not a shrine. Yet the point."

damaged country, wondering what landmarks seem important as signs
work the Lord wanted him to do, "The point is: who do you trust? " 
that God is with us. I feel lucky to

he was inspired to start schools, to I answered. "Father Hesburgh
be walking in the footsteps of

help the children. He passed on his doesn't need lessons in working for 
giants, to serve the students who

dream to tl)e priests and brothers of human rights. The discourtesy of
will cast their own long shadows of

his religious family. Sorin and his our leader reminds me of a replygreatness.
companion came to Indiana to 
Margaret Chase Smith once gave to build a college in the wilderness. 
A freshman informs me that the reporters wanting to know if whe the worth of the school would be in University dumps on students. I se would run for President in 1960. its importance to the children of the the pain and anger in young eyes. Asked what she would do if she se~tlers emcamped in the heartland I want him to like the place, so I woke up some morning in the of a young continent. take . on questions that cry for White House, she said: "I'd 
apologize to Mrs. Eisenhower and go home." "You think he should go home to his diocese?" 
''There's room for everybody here. I think he should apologize to the Champion, who has scars as honorable as medals for his public battles," I said. 
"Is there room for homosex­uals ? Two student mamagers resigned their jobs in campus radio, in protest over the censorship of homosexuals." 
I said: "Isn't there a confusion here between minority rights and minority politics?" 
He answered: "·You mean homosexuals should stay out of politics because this school can't stand to see them treated fairly?" 
"It would be a sin against God to treat anyone unfairly, especially homosexuals,"I said. "That doesn't mean the University is presently prepared to deal with the politics. of a liberation movement which treats sexual freedom as though it were not a problem to the Christian 
tradition.  
"Sex  is  a  sin  until  the  priest  
sprinkles it  with  holy  water  and  
then it becomes s acred  Is that the  
idea?"'  

"Only if you are a Catholic, and not a Hottentot, so far as I know, Hottentots don't treat marriage as a sacrament." He wasn't amused, so I continued: "Sex, I suspect is an in­different appetite, like eating, it depends on what you do with it. You can feast on the Eucharist, or dig your grave with you teeth." He said: "Sex, if you ask me, is 
beautiful any time so long as it's 
not rape." 
"Another student told me the 
same thing," I said. "On the way 
home, he had a sexual encounter. 
He phoned later to say he found 
nothing beautiful in something he 
was ashamed of." 
"I'm still a virgin," he said. "I'm looking forward to sex as a holy act." 
"Novelists often praise the first fien rapture of love's awakening," I said. "One doesn't have to be Dr. Ruth to be sympathetic. The movies make an artform of the sexual initi­tion. Old men on their death beds are said to murmur the names of their early loves like a prayer of thanksgiving. Only a blue nose would want to deny the poetry of lifes turning points." 
He seemed surprised to find me so liberal. 
I went on: "A thing of beauty is a joy ... until you discover the price you have to pay for it. Where is the poetry in the high school students who did know the gun was load­ed? True poetry doesn't leave you with a sour taste in your mouth, feeling cheap and betrayed. The holiness !eves off where the pain begins." 
He felt I was sermonizing, and so I lost him. What would I know anyway? I am only a priest who furnishes Kleenex for wet eyes. 
More important tha the land­marks at Notre Dame is the love that is passed down from genera­tion to generation. Love is here like the presence of God whom you cannot see. I can only prove love by continuing the arguments I seem to lose all the time. · 



Troy Achilles' USC Trojans triumph 
Editor's note: 
than yellowed newpaper clippings andThis is the 23rd episode in The Observer's looked around the room, surveying the "How many o(.:you have ever seen 'Wake flickering newsreels. It is kept fresh and
serial publication of the Notre Dame foot­damage. The team had limped into the 
Up· the· Echoes?' Didn't NFL films do a vibrant by kids from all over America who
ball story, "The Gipper's Ghost," by Notre room, carryng its wounded. The trojans 
magnificentjob of putting together history come to South Bend to live out their dreams. 
Dame graduate Robert Quakenbush. In the hadn't taken any prisoners... at l<!ast, not 
,of ·l!ohStre · t>ame football? Remember the The spirit is not a figment of their imagina­
last episode, the history of Notre Dame vs. yet. 
great comebacks by Notre Dame? The I935 tion. It is real . . . binding forever past to
USC was remembered as the Irish prepare to 
win against Ohio State? The I978 Cotton present, and all those who have felt it."' 
meet the first-ranked Trojans. No one was talking. Players and coaches Bowl comeback led by Joe Montana?"
alike stared blumly at the floor. Hart Collins felt goosebumps quivering on
They were listening intently. 

SplrltofND Kelly summoned the courage to speak. his forearms. "Gentlemen, I don't know where to begin.." Father Rock went on. USC's head football coach, Troy Achilles, 
"Yes, men. All those who have felt it. Men was shrewd enought to capitalize on any 
"Well, I do!" like George Glpp. Frank Leahy. Ara situation. When the USC offense assumed 
Parseghian. Moose Krause." 
A startled team and their head coach turned 

the set position on the first down of the toward the voice. It was Father Rock. 
He paused. The secret of public speaking 
game, the Irish defense was flabbergasted. 
"May I have permission to speak, Coach?" success lay in how one mastered silence. 
Varnished and lacquered onto the top of Kelly nodded. "Now, I'm not going to tell you to win one 
every blood-red helmet facing them was the "Look at you, all of you? Look at each for the Gipper. It's already been done-once 
cover of Sport Illustrated. Achilles had other. What do you see?" by Notre Dame and twice by the bought up every unsold copy he cold find Republicans." 
and assigned his student managers the job of No answers. 
The boys laughed. 
affixing the covers to the Trojan helmets. "Well, boys. I'll tell you. You see young "I'm not going to dress you in brand-new men from all over the United States. Every jerseys or read you telegrams from Coach state in the Union. You're from different Kelly's little kids. backgrounds, different races, even different
Chopter 25 "I'm not going to tell you about Notre
religions. You share one thing in common at Dame's II national championships and sixthis moment. You are each wearing the Heisman Trophy winners. I'm not going togolden helmets and the gold and blueUSC scored first. 

tell you about football at all. Indeed, I'm go­uniforms of the University of Notre Dame. 
USC scored second. 
ing to tell you the story of Notre Dame's 
USC scored third. 
greatest comeback. . . when the spirit of 
USC scored fourth. 
As different as you are, you all share a com­Notre Dame was forged forever." Mercifully, the half ended. A deflated mon heritage. One you seemed to forget in­
All in the locker room fixed their gaze onNotre Dame team trail 24-0. The 59,075 the first half." 
Father Rock. 
assistant coaches of Notre Dame Stadium had fallen silent as their dream season col­Rockne had discovered a videocassette To be continued . .. lapsed before their eyes. recorder earlier that week and had been 
"Well, my favorite part of that film comes fascinated. Great coaching device. He 
From "The Gipper's Ghost, • copyright 1985 by
at the end. The narrator's voice said theseIn the locker room, Coach Kelly was almost recalled a videotape he knew they all had 

words: 'The spirit of Notre Dame is more Ro!Nrt Quakenbush. Published by O'Connor
stricken dumb. There were few words. He seen. 
Publishing Co. Reprinted by permission. 

I 


Teenage love story 
falls short 
DON SEYMOUR 
strued more from the relationship with Mag­

features writer 
gie than she did. The film builds to a moving climax whenSometimes writers and directors lose con­Maggie confronts Lucas after he tries out fortrol of a film and allow it to move in the the football team to win back her affections. 

wrong direction. "Lucas" is such a case -a In this brilliant scene, all the bitterness,lovely movie marred by the wrong ending. 
frustration and sadness of teenage love isLucas Blye (Corey Haim from "Firstborn" poignantly expressed. 

and "Murphy's Romance") is an exceedingly bright and eccentric 14-year-old boy who is the spectacle of his school. Everyone knows Then writer/director David Seltzer loses him because he's advanced in school, and control. After this peak, his reolution 
everyone picks on him because he is odd. flounders into a Rocky-esque hero sequence including Lucas on the football field and, eventually, in the hospital. The relationship between Lucas and Maggie is never resolved,
Movie review~''' 
unless one counts a weak hospital scene

Lucas · ~·t 
where it is implied that the two want to be

¥... (out of tour) I 
friends. The film's conclusion is a typical Hollywood "rah-rah" happy ending, totally misdirected from the plot. It would have

Before the start of the fall semester, he been more appropriate if the movie had had
meets and befriends the new girl in town, a sad ending. As is, Seltzer's film is a near­
16-year-old beauty, Maggie (Kerri Green). miss.
The two of them spend a lot of time together until the school year begins and Maggie falls for a wide receiver (Charlie Sheen) who has The directing is unfortunate because the also appointed himself Lucas' protector. young actors deliver remarkably warm and Lucas, of course, is jealous because he con-capable performances. Haim, Green and 
Closing today in the Warner Gallery of the South Bend Art Center is the Indiana Woman's Caucus for Art Competitive Ex­hibition. Admission to the show is free. 

The Student Activities Board presents "Co­coon" tonight and tomorrow night in the Engineering Auditorium. Admission to the 
/Music

7, 9:15 and 11:30 p.m. shows is$1.50. 
IR

The department of communication and theater hosts the film "AIIonsanfan" tonight The department of music hosts Jane at 7:30 and 9:45 p.m. in the Annenberg Bergeron in a graduate organ recital in Auditorium. Tickets are $1.50. 
Sacred Heart Church on Sunday. Admission to the 8 p.m. performance is free.

The spring semester film series at Indiana University at South Bend continues Saturday The department of music presents The night with the film "Kiss Me Kate." Full of Notre Dame Brass Ensemble Sunday in humor and outstanding songs, the movie Washington Auditorium at 4 p.m. Admis­stars Howard Keel, Kathryn Grayson and sion is free. Ann Miller. Admission to the 8 p.m. show­
The Muscular Uystrophy I<oundanon of In­ing in the Little Theater of Northside Hall on diana Benefit Concert, featuring gospelthe IUSB campus is $.175. 


singer Joy Gardner is tonight in the Bendix Theater of the Century Center. Tickets to the 7:30p.m. performance are $8. 
Theater Mass
The Theater Company of IUSB will close its 1986 season with Martin Sherman's con­troversial play Bent tonight and tomorrow night at 8:15p.m. and Sunday at 2:15p.m. The celebrants for Mass at Sacred Heart Admission to the performances in the Nor-Church this weekend will be: thside Hall Main Theater is $3. Father Thomas Streit at 5 p.m. (Saturday 


~I 

night vigil.) Father Oliver Williams at 9 a.m. Father Thomas Streit at 10:30 a.m. and 1'2:15 p.m. The rosary is said daily at 6:45 p.m. at the 
Grotto. 

Opening Sunday is the exhibit Uaniel Morper: Class of '66 in the O'Shaughnessy Gallery East at the Snite Museum of Art. The show will feature Morper's oil paintings, pastels and gouaches of New York cityscapes and multipaneled panoramas of the American Southwest. The opening is from 2 The Holiday Star Theater hosts Johnny


to 4 p.m. in the East Gallery. 
Mathis with special guest Jeannine BurnierOpening Sunday in the Warner Gallery of tonight and tomorrow night at 8 p.m. andthe South Bend Art Center is the 14th Bien­Sunday night at 7 p.m. Tickets to the shows nial Michiana Regional Art Exhibition. The are $17.95 and are available at the Holidayopening begins at 12 p.m. in the Warner Star Theater. 

Lucas Blye (Corey Haim) and Maggie (Kerri Green) portray young lovers in "Lucas, " 
the story ofa young man's struggle for identity and acceptance. 
Sheen are all very likeable and real. No one 

For the first 90 minutes, "Lucas" is pro­should have trouble identifying with the 
bably the warmest, most real teenage film of characters. Most notable perhaps is Winona 
the year. If only Seltzer had thrown out the Ryder as Riva, the forgotten girl who pa­
last 20 pages of script and stayed true to his tiently knocks herself out to gain Lucas' at­
story, he might have made a memorable tention. 
film. 
'The Way of the 



Cross' enthusiastic 
FRAN NORTON 
Senior.StQ/1 Writer 
Last night in Washington Hall, the Notre 
Dame Department of Communications and 
theatre presented "The Way of The Cross," 
an adaption of the Stations of the Cross ac­
cording to the Gospel of Mark. For once, 
this reviewer is at a loss for words. 
At its best, this bold production pushed 
the audience into an expressionistic vision of 
the Stations of the Cross. At the very least, it 
is a superlative example of just what theatre 
cando. 
From the very start, it was evident that this ,production COlJid not be contained by the standard "fourth wall." Not only is the au­dienee surrounded by the play, it is swept along by the pace of the production and by 
.the constant movement of the actors. 
No one actor , or even part of the play, can actually stand out from the rest. Acting, music, lighting, and choreography meld together to form one unified whole. It is an experience that cannot be described. 
It is the experience and emotions of the Stations that are presented, rather than a purely doctrinal account. No one actor is Christ. His presence is created by employing several different actors, male and female, and a fixed symbol that is associated with Him. after only a few scenes, the symbol itself is powerful enough to stand alone as Christ. 
This performance could aptly be described as performed by Bain Productions, Ltd. The adaptation and lyrics are by Georgia Weber Bain and Reginald F. '3ain, Sr. It is directed by Reginald F. Bain, Jr. Among the or­chestra members are Laura M. Bain and Sharon L. Bain. It was Choreograped by Tom Barkes Bain, with Anne Marie Borgman Bain as the Production Stage Manager. 
It is impossible to pigeon-hole this produc­tion into any one category. It seems to simultaneously contain many different styles. Action changes from drama to ballet. 

Music may start as opera, and then careen into a wail of acid rock. At one moment the entire Hall is brightly illuminated, ath the next ci~ outlines of characters move acrou the stage. It is a stage production in the fullest sense of the term. 

Theater 
The Way of the Cross 

Perhaps the only fault of this production is its timing. Forcing a play to run during An Tostal is like staging a poetry recital during a home football game. Fortunately, low atten­dance did not dampen the enthusiasm of the performers. The show runs through Satur­day night. Hopefully, more people will come to this unique production. 

1bc __/DftW.... 

Leah Domitrovic and Bridget McCarthy perform in "The Way ofthe Cross." 

___..,..__ ____ 

The Observer Friday, April25, 1986 -page 8 
FANTASTIC SAVINGS ON WOOD BARNS 

APPLIANCES 
WHIRLPOOL • GIBSON MORE 
FAcrDRY REPRESENTATIVES ON HANO WITH FACTORY AUTHORIZED DISCOUNTS 
~~\t"t;, ' ,t~ \~ \)\\~\\'( 
~\":)'"' 


BOB'S FURNITURE FREE DELIVERY & APPLIANCES SET-UP & REMOVAL . 
STEREO 
DENON • POLK AUDIO • JVC • PIONEER • FISHER NAD • BOSTON ACOUSTICS • NAKAMICHI BANG & OLUFSEN • MANY MORE EXAMPLE YAHANA HOME EQUALIZER ....... s99 Incredible 

CAR STEREO 
ALPINE • NAKAMICHI • SANYO SENTREK • PROTON • YAMAHA MORE • up to 501/o OFF or more 

OFF MANY MORE 
CLASSIC STEREO • BOB'S APPLIANCE • VMC • MORE 
BALDWIN  .  & ORGAN4 
PIANO& ORGANS  
FACTORY  
AUTHORIZED  
SPECIALS  FACTORY REPS.  

SHIRK'S PIANO 
SHEET COMFORTERS PILLOWS 
ALL BEDS~ 





500/oOFF 
OR MORE 
wotarbcld 
EiaE room5i5'5 
LEATHER JACKETS 
Over 1,000 Men's & Women's Fashion or Cycle Jackets Priced !rom 
MINOLTA NIKON CANON MORE 
LENSES BAGS MISC. 
50D/o OFF 
OFF LIST TRADE-INS WELCOME 




I GSALE 
MEN'S SUITS UP TO 
500/o OFF 

=-n=....... 1000's OF OTHER SPECIALS SUITS JEANS SLACKS TOPS SHIRTS 
ALL TO BOD/o OFF 

WICKER 

SOUTHSIDE FURNITURE 10 Piece Pit Group •788 
OUTLET _ MAJOR 
TWIN SIZE ~ BRANDS 

3 Piece
RECLINERS MATTRESSES
: 1 ~E50%0FF 

Sofa, Loveseat, Chair
BOX SPRING STARTING
:II INSTALLATION 

8399
s5gaa per piece 
AT '1991'
' PADDING • MORE 


Druids worship stonehenge, spring 
Frivolous Friday 
Afternoon 


The Rolling Contest 1:45 Ultimate Frisbee 4:00 
(Ia front of Cusblaa) (North Stepan Field) 
Pie Eating Contest 1:45 Loudmouth 4:00 
(In front of Alumni) (Soria Statue) 
Cereal Eating Contest 1:15 (In front of Alumni) Serf Auction 4:15 (Sorln Statue) 
Keg Toss 1:30 Trivia Bowls 5:00 
(In front of Cushlna) (Sorin Statue) 
Impersonations 1:45 
(Soria Statue) 
Cow Chip Throwing 1:45 
Evening

(In front of Alumni) 
Complete Madness, Name That Tune 3:15 Friday Dance 9:00-1:00 
(Sorln Statue) (Stepan Courts) 

Sunny Saturday 
~ 
Serene 
Sunday 



Bookstore Finals Noon 
(Stepan courts) 
,: ..
,, 

Under a bright full moon, a low bass beat echoed in the cold evening on the Notre Dame campus. 
Out of the depths of construction-torn LaFortune Student Center they emerged. Nine members strong, the little company dressed in white began to spread the word throughout Notre Dame. 
They marched through South Quad first, then traversed the woodland path to North Quad to continue their CALL TO WOR­SHIP. They carried torches, candles, a drum, and a sacrificial animal, a large white plastic swan. As the enclave progressed, their numbers swelled. Chants of increasing volume could be heard from the group. 
"Worship Stonehenge!" 
"Spring shall arrive!" 
"AN TOSTAL!" 
It wasn't really a pagan ritual that took place that fateful Tuesday night. This year's An Tostal marks the beginning of the Druid Mass. 
Inspired by the Notre Dame War Memorial's resemblance to a certain English structure attributed to the Druids, the Mass was started by the An Tostal Zoo. The unof­ficial event was publicized by simple white chalk drawings of the fountain with the words "II :00 tonight" placed strategically near the dining halls. 
The campus-spanning march, which lasted about half an hour, culminated in a proces­sion down the middle of North Quad to the chants of "An Tostal" and the beat of the bass drum borrowed from the Notre Dame Marching Band. About a hundred onlookers, attracted by the noise and the chalk drawings, gathered to watch as the Druids circled a small treee in front of the fountain. 
"Bring forth the sacrificial animal!" cried the Head Druid. 
The innocent swan met its "death" at the hands of the blood-crazed Druids, much to the delight of the frenzied masses. Ritual torches, or candles and sparklers were distributed among the congregation, as the Druids invoked the powers of the monument to let spring begin. 

At one point during the ceremony, excited brethren began pitching their torches at the sacred stones, and the "keepers" of the monument dressed in Notre Dame Security uniforms, ran to prevent the crowd from disturbing the hallowed monoliths. 
Soon thereafter, "Brother Mike (Switek)" of the Student Government Order arrived to deliver a sermon. He said that all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's faithful should en­join him An Tostal activities, now that the Druids have called forth spring to campus. 
The Spring ceremony became the first in­augural ceremony in the history of An Tostal. If the moon is right and the powers of Stonehenge will it, next year's festival may see another Druid Mass. 
Morning 
Hot Air Balloon 8:04 
(Stepan Field) 
Road Rally 9:03 
(South of Stadium) 
Hangover 5-K 9:17 
(Stepan Center) 
Can Stacking 9:57 
(North Side of Library) 
Kite Flying 10:01 
(Stepan Field) 
Afternoon 
An Tostal Picnic 11:15 
(and Picnic Games) 
Mud-related events 1:14-1:00 
(Mud pits) 
Chariot Procession 1:19 
(Wublnaton Hall to the Mudplts) 
lnnertube Water Polo 4:00 
(Rolrs Aquallc: Center) 
Frisbee Golf 4:05 
(Holy Cross Hall) 
Ultimate Frisbee Finals 5:00 
(Notre Dame Stadium) 
Croquet 5:01 -6:59 
(North Quad at the Dlnlna Hall) 
Evening 
Recess 8:30-11:00 
(Stepan Center) 
11:00 Movie: Rear Window 
(Stepan Center) 



AN TOSTAL SPECIAL ISSUE -page 2 

An Tostal Onslaught 

r 
r 
r 
r • 
r 
~ 



Photos by Jim Carroll and Dave Fischer 
' ' 

J, ' .
I ~., 
' 



AN TOSTAL SPECIAL ISSUE -page 3 

Bookstore Basketball XV 

Leaving the fun aside, today's that he beat the Fun Bunch. Steve 
games will showcase the cream of Beuerlein, a veteran of the Tequila relative ease, including a 21-10 the squad. A final sixteen team ton has been forced to play a more the Notre Dame basketball crop. White Lightning team that lost the drubbing of the highly regarded from last year, Tequila has the ex­dominant role than Dolan has The survivors will move on to 1984 championship, adds outside Unidentified Grace Defenders. In perience to give Leone's a tough needed to. However, they have im­Stepan Court I for Saturday's final scoring punch. Mike Kovaleski a tournament of great intensity, battle. proved with each round, and they four, and for the championship at and Tom Antonini join Dolan Leone's is perhaps the most intense. scored an impressive victory over a 
3:00 on Sunday. All eyes will be on underneath. Although it has not Mike O'Grady is the big man very good Mr. Coffey and the Non­the Fun Bunch Finale, in their quest been a factor thus far, Lee's may underneath, and he has led the WBBS with Ed Smierciak -A fu­Dairy Creamers team on Wednes­to become the fifth two-time cham­suffer from the fact that despite team in rebounds, while maintain­sion of two teams that made the day, 21-18. They'll need to con­pion in Bookstore Basketball their experience, this-is the first ing a high shooting percentage on final sixteen last year (WBBS made tinue their bruising play history. Seven other teams, year they have played together as a the other end. Bill Sullivan and the final four), this group has com­underneath, and get some scoring however, feel that they can take the team, a rarity in the elite eight. For Gary Sasse are two of the best big piled the best overall shooting punch outside from Holtz and crown away. Here's a quick run­any team to beat them, however, shooters around, and they both percentage in the tournament. If Muldowney to come away with a down of the teams who have battl­they must contend with the light it up from outside in addition they're on, they'll certainly give victory against Lee's. ed through six rounds of action to presence of Dolan underneath the to crashing the boards. AI Martin Much More Manhood a run for the reach the elite eight. hoop. and John Mundo round out the money. Ken Schuermann and 
well-balanced squad. Only a lack Kevin Laracey of the Ed Smierciak Let's Go Crazy -Tory Patterson 
of big-game experience works team and Dan Dressel of WBBS has been organizing and playing for Fun Bunch Finale -Any doubt that Much More Manhood -Definite­against the Stallions, as they have provided most of the scoring Bookstore teams for four years, this is the team to beat quickly ly a contender, this group returns haven't faced a serious challenge punch. WBBS needed only 36 and this year's team, the current in­evaporated in this tournament. four players from a team that yet. shots and 25 minutes to get by Four carnation of Let's Go Crazy, is his 
The Fun Bunch truly earned their reached the final four last year. Fags and A Zahmbie on Wednes­best ever. The team surprised trip to the elite eight, beating tough The addition of Casey Newell, who day in a typical sharp-shooting per­many with an impressive and teams such as Good No Go and takes the place of Joe Howard on Tequila White Lightning -If formance. Their speed and transi­relatively easy victory over the Joe 
Redwings in the early rounds and the team, adds a more defensive Leone's Stallions are itching for a tion play will be sharply tested by Price-led Port-A-Pit. Chris beating them handily. They remain flavor to the squad. Manhood is tough game, they won't have long Manhood, in what should be a very Perozek has played outstanding the most balanced team, as each of led by Tim Brown, whose speed to wait, as it will probably come fast-paced game. basketball, leading the team in both the five players has led the team in and leaping ability make him dif­from this team. Although lacking scoring and shooting percentage. scoring at least once. Try to play a ficult to stop. Joel Williams is a in overall height, Tequila exhibits Carlton West and Brian Kochr man-to-man defense against them, horse underneath the basket, clear­some of the best passing and team­The Embarassing Stains -To the have provided solid play in close, and they will go to whomever has a ing out the middle to allow the work in the tournament. Each delight of Bookstore fans and Wes Shorter, never afraid to let mismatch because with their size, leapers to crash the boards. Mike player plays a clearly defined role everywhere, the pairings have pro­it fly from outside, has added some there will always be a mismatch. Huber and Rick Muench, both on the team. The catalyst and duced a classic final eight battle key baskets. Tory himself has also Fun Bunch plays a tough zone good shooters, round out the team. leader of this team is sophomore between this team and Lee's BBQ. played well, sinking two pressure defense that rarely allows a second A key to Manhood's success could Chris Nanni, who demonstrated his Former varsity basketball player free throws in the game against shot. The frontline is composed of be Muench's ability to recover from ability in Tequila's hard-fought 21-Tim Kempton will be matched Port-A-Pit. Although the team has Greg Dingens, Tom Rehder and an ankle injury that sidelined him 16 victory over Tofu Chaka Khan. against Dolan inside, and the Stains jelled in the last few rounds and has Rick DiBernardo, while Steve on Tuesday. Nanni was all over the court, and will use huge Mike Kelly to counter proven that they belong in the elite Treacy, last year's Tournament he hit a number of clutch jumpers Antonini and Kovaleski. Kevin eight, they will need to play the MVP, and Pat Collins make up the from far outside to seal the victory. Smith, Skip Holtz and Mark game of their lives to stay with the backcourt. All five players can Leone's Stallions -A newcomer Shawn Cullinan anchors the team Muldowney round out a very Fun Bunch. Look for the Fun dunk. Needless to say, it will take to the final eight, this team has underneath the basket and excels in physical and intimidating squad. Bunch to key on Perozek and open an upset of substantial magnitude made a lot of believers, as they the clutch. Mike Scotty, Mike The Stains have seemed erratic and up the running game against this to knock them off. have dispensed with every foe with Glynn and Chris Carlson round out unorganized at times, and Kemp-team. 
What was your most memorable An Tostal experience? 
,, ' \'-. 


J/ ­

-·,, t-•• 
t 
• 

''~'~'• 
' 
,}1~ 
l-"(. 

I met this girl, Jill, and we When Cavanaugh won the My most memorable ex­Water sports with three of the 
went to the Madison Regatta for chariot race my sophomore perience is going to be tomor­cutest blondes on campus. 
the weekend. year. row ... or maybe tonight. 
Chris Kitzke Marcus Bradshaw Jeff Strazis Phil Flesch Sophomore Senior Sophomore Arts and Letters Government Economics/ ALP A PhilosophyI ALP A Engineering Program Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame 

Sotlrn: Spons l>eputment Observer Graphic 


Past winners 
Year Winner Score Loaer Score 
1972 -The Family 21 Hawks and Geese 12 1973 -The 31 Club 21 Badin Exiles 19 1974-Ducks 21 Club3111 17 1975-Club 31 III 21 Average White Team 18 1976 -TILCS III 22 Average White Team 20 1977 -TILCS IV 21 Average Team 17 1978 -Leo's Last 21 Chumps Too 18 1979 -Chumps Three 21 The Butchers 19 1980 -Defending Chumps 21 Strappamasquon and the 11 
combat Wombats 1981 -Reclassified 'Nads 22 TPS 20 1982 -Full House 21 Eddie O'Rourke and the 17 
Travelling Stragglers 1983 -Macri's preferred Stock 21 Tequila White Lightning 15 1984 -Macri's Deli 21 Tequila White Lightning IV 12 1985 -Revenge of the Fun Bunch 21 Rousseau's Noble Savages 16 
.. 

A 


Bookstore 
continuedfrom page 4 
when, after losing control of the ball on his way up for a layup, he threw his arms up and down repeatedly in the all too familiar style used by Notre Dame students throughout his career. Kempton and Kelly'smiled broadly, and the crowd roared its approval. 
The Lee's BBQ Roundhouse ­Most observers give this team the best shot of knocking off the Fun Bunch. Composed of four veteran Bookstore players and former var­sity basketball player Jim Dolan, Lee's has a good mix of size and quickness, along with the ex­perience to go all the way. Point guard Bubba ClJnningham played for the champion Macri's Deli team in 1984, and is the only man left on campus who can accurately claim 



AN TOSTAL SPECIAL ISSUE -page 4 
Blue-Gold matchups look to be even 
continuedfrom page 16 
Wide receivers-This just may be the year for Offensive Line -The annual Spring Game is regarded freshman Ned Bolcar inside a pair starter for the Blue team. the Irish receiving corps to live up to its perennially a sprint pain for the guys in the of rookie outside backers in Dan Quinn and The fleet-footed Andrysiak, however, con­preseason expectations. With the likes of trenches who are knicked and cut up from 20 Rich Morrison. Waiting in the Blue wings, 
tinually proved a threat, especially when run­sprinter Alvin Miller and the dependable <lays of practice. This year will be no dif­meanwhile, will be sophomore Mike ning the option. Although the 6-1, 180-Milt Jackson derailed last year by injuries, ferent. While most of the key players will Johnson and freshman Scott Bufton. pounder has not seemed to find the same there ofter appeared to be no light at the end play, many will be hurting with various Joining Kovaleski as the money men inside groove through the air that Beuerlein has, he of the tunnel for the Notre Dame offensive ailments that are sure to affect the overall for the Gold backers is 6-3, 223-pound should be able to move his Gold team effec­express. quality of play. junior Dave Butler, a 23-tackle performer tively. Moving the ball also has not been a But this year Jackson and Miller have played This year's victims for the Blue team, then, last fall for the Irish. On the outside with problem for emerging freshman Steve Belles, at '84 form and shone brightly at spring are veterans Chuck Lanza, Shawn Haffern, Figaro will be Darrell "Flash" Gordon, a whose physical size (6-4, 197 pounds) and practices. They each will start at split end for Pete Rokich, John Askin and Byron Spruell. sophomore who appears ready to move into 
running instincts should make him a promi­their teams -Jackson with the Blue, and While three or four of these men could very a more contributory role in the defensive 
! 
nent figure in the future. Miller with the Gold. Sharing time with well be the starters Sept. 13 against plans in '86. Although 1985 AP honorable­Backing up Beuerlein on the Blue, mean­Miller at wideout will be freshman walk-on Michigan, Lanza and Heffern are hurting. mention All-American safety Steve while, will be sophomore Tom Byrne, who Brad Alge, while Skip Holtz is sure to see This will mean reserves like Rich Michalak Lawrence will sit out the Blue-Gold game started for the Gold last year in the place of time behind Jackson for the Blue. apd Bob Hodge should see plenty of time. with a knee injury, the rest of the lineup the injured Beuerlein. Freshman Pete The flanker spot is loaded wi.th young talent Making things easy for the Gold backfield 
should similar to the one that takes the field 
Graham, a 6-3, 190-pounder who did not ap­will be center Tom McHugh, guards Tom in the fall. pear in a game last season, should see action Freeman and Chuck Killian and tackles Tom Two-year regular Troy Wilson will start at as well behind the Blue center. 
Redher, Dom Prinziavalli, Tony Puntillo the corner for the Blue as will junior Chris and Joe Kelty Kvochak. The Blue safety slots will be filled
Tailbacks -Call Blue coaches George by sophomore Brandy Wells (strong safety) Stewart, Joe Yonto, Vinny Cerrato and and James Bobb (free safety). 
Tony Yelovich optimists. They're banking On reserve for the Blue squad will be corners on a big day from tailback Hiawatha Fran­DEFENSE Bob Satterfield and walk -on Marc Gleason.
cisco, who while showing some powerful In additon, strong safety Mike Visovatti will running all spring, is hampered by arthritic -as
Defensive Line Things should not be be called uponto spell Wells or Bobb.

knees that turn every day into a question desperate in the defensive line, where Four-year man Mike Haywood, who bringsmark. Francisco should play a lot, but if he everyone is healthy with the exception of top his vast experience back one more time forcannot, freshman walk-ons Frank Pinn and nosetackle Mike Griffin and reserve tackle the Irish, will pair with junior Marv SpenceMike Brcik will experience a baptism by fire. 
Steve Bynum. Holtz has emphasized all spr­on the Gold corners. They will get helpThe Gold backfield, meanwhile, should look ing the importance of an aggressive pass downfield from freshman strong safetylike a day care center with youngsters runn­rush, and this should be a good chance for George Streeter and classmate Aaron Robbing all over the place. Freshman carriers fans to note the progress in this regard at the free safety. Also seeing time in theMark Green and Corny Southall will see Attacking for the Blue will be 6-6, 275­backfield will be cornerbacks Mike Tafelski most of the action. The speedy ex-flanker pound nosetackle Marty Lippincott, a con­and Mark Oleksak, as well as strong safety Gren (6-0, 183 pounds) is a lean verted offensive tackle who has adjusted Chris Johnson. 

thoroughbred who likes to run around peo­
nicely, and tackles Wally Kleine (6-9, 274 ple while the solid Southall (6-2, 185 pounds) 
pounds) and Jeff Kunz (6-6), 252 pounds). Kicking game -While this area seems pretty runs over them. The final third of the highly Also in the Blue plans are junior Mike Seas­well set with both of last year's specialists touted rookie crop, D'Juan Francisco, will ly, sophomore Matt Kairis and freshman returning, this game will give the Irish sit out with the ankle injury that has sidelin­
Mark Nigro. coaches a chance to see who can be counted ed him for most of the spring. Leading the Gold rush will be junior Robert on among the reserves for future years or in Banks, who moves up to the trenches after a case of any unexpected injuries. 
Fullbacks -When big veteran fullback Frank pair of successful seasons at linebacker, and The Blue will pay the price for having topStarns went down with a shin fracture in the sophomore Matt Dingens. The 6-5, 234-punter Dan Sorenson on their squad -theyfirst week of practice, junior Pernell Taylor pound Banks and the 6-6, 242-pound will have to rely on unproven kickers Jim stepped onto the scene and made an im­Dingens will flank nosetackle Tom Gorman, Sacco, Ted Gradel and Tim Healy for the mediate impact with his speed out of the a 6-6, 230-pound freshman who served as a place-kicking chores. Subbing for Sorenson,backfield and solid blocking skills. For the 5­reserve tight end last season. Freshman meanwhile, will be punter Bob Welch. 
ll, 216-pound Taylor, who is playing tackle Steve Roddy will also be on hand for Gold coaches Terry Forbes, Pete Cordelli,healthy in spring ball for the first time since Tim Brown theGold. • Kurt Schottenheimer, Moose Krause and coming back from a 1983 knee injury, his Linebackers -Last year the linebackers stole Gene Corrigan are hoping the game goesstart for the Blue team may mark the beginn­led by super sophomore Tim Brown, who led the show, as two depleted offensive lines down to the wire -then they will have the leging of a very successful year. the Irish in catches last season and appears a allowed a myriad of tackle opportunities. of veteran kicker John Carney to fall back Senior Tom Monahan, a former walk-on solid pre-season all-America candidate. 
While the names may change this time from on. Excluding this scenario, however, the who played extensively behind Starns last Brown will display his talents for the Gold, Furjanic and Larkin to Kovaleski and punting game will play the major role as the season, will receive an extra year of eligibili­while classmate Reggie "Big Play" Ward will Figaro, there should again be some heavy determinant of field position. Handlingty to come back and shore up the depth chart run patterns for the Blue. After Ward, hitting just beyond the line of scrimmage. these punting duties for the Gold will be in 1986. The 5-10, 210-pound Minahan will freshman Ray Dumas will handle the task of The Blue team has neither the indefatigable sophomore Vince Phelan, who has made a start for the Gold in front of freshman walk­catching balls or running from the wishbone Mike Kovaleski nor the intimidating Cedric strong bid for the starting job, and freshman on Mike Gatti. for the Blue. Freshman ex-quarterback Jim Figaro, but it does have senior inside man Dave Munger. Mark Napierkowski, mean­Playing behind Taylor on the Blue, mean­Sass, meanwhile, will spell Brown for the Ron Weissenhofer (41 tackles last year). The while, will back up Carney as placekicker if while, will be freshman walk-on Joe Jarosz. Dol d. 
experienced Weissenhofer will join highly-the need arises. 
Elite eight has strongest field in years 

By MIKE CARDINALE 
Sports Writer 
Every basketball junkie on campus will be behind the bookstore this afternoon, as the eight remaining teams from an original field of 584 take to the courts for the homestretch drive to the coveted Bookstore Basketball XV crown. Each team remaining has faced a long and grueling road to the elite eight, and they each appreciated a day off yesterday to prepare for today's ganies and allow some wounds to heal and pains to dissipate. 
The quality of play in the tournament has grown tremendously in the 15 years since its birth, and this year is no exception. No less than five former varsity basketball players participated in the tournament, and three of them, Jim Dolan, Tim Kempton and Casey Newell, still re­main. 
Although intensity and a strong will to win tend to dominate . the final rounds of Bookstore Basketball, the emphasis on fun, the true spirit of the tournament, has not disappeared. Wednesday's game between The Embarassing Stains and Mr. Coffey and the Non-Dairy Creamers exemplified this light-hearted spirit. Although the Stains argued continually with the referees, they also took the time to show that they were enjoying themselves. 
On a Tim Kempton foul shot in the second half, teammate Mike Kelley joined the Mr. Coffey fans by waving his hands wildly underneath the basket. Kempton joined the fun a few minutes later 
see BOOKSTORE, page 3 
Down to. the Exciting Eight
Fun Bunch Finale 
4/23 BK9 6:15 Fun Bunch Finale 
Bud Melman and the Fugitive Guys 4/25 BK9 6:00 l 
Let's Go Crazy 
4/23 ST6 6:15 Let's Go Crazy 
Port·A·Pit 

Tequil!l White _L_ig_ht_n_in_g___, Tequila While 4/23 BK9 5:00 Lightning 
4125 BK10 6:00
Tofu Chaka Khan 
Unidentified 
Grace Defenders 
4/23 ST1 5:00 
Leone's Stallions 

Roundhouse. Leone's Stallions Champion 
Shysters 4/27 ST1 3:00 Source: Sports Department Observer Graphic 
Much More Manhood 
Much More Manhood 
4/23 ST1 6:15 
4/25 BK10 5:00 Keenan Inmates II 
4 Fags and aZambie WBBSwith Ed

4/26 4/23 BK 10 5:00 
Smieciak ST1 
WBBS with Ed 511'\ieciak 5:00 
Mr. Colley and the The Embarassing Non-Dairy Creamers Stains 4/23 ST3 6:15 
.-------IThe Embarassing 4/25 BK9 5:00 Stains
'-==---­
The Lee's BBQ Roundhouse The Lee's BBQ 
4/23 BK10 6:15 

The Observer Friday, April25, 1986 -page 9 

Sports Briefs 
The Blue-Gold football game will be hetd tomor­row at I :30 p.m. in Notre Dame Stadium. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will be admitted upon presentation of a current 10 card at gates 15 and 16 only. General admission tickets are available to the public at gate 10 of the ACC. The cost for adults is $3 ($4 on game day) and $1 for youth ($1.50 on game day). -The Observer 
The NO soccer team will battle a team of alumni from past teams tomorrow at 10 a.m. on Alumni Field. Admission is free. -The Observer 
The Off-Campus lacrosse team wm hotd a prac­
tice Sunday at 6 p.m. on Cartier Field. Attendance is mandatory as playoffs are next week. For more information call Tom Grote at 232-6952. -The Observer 
Serene Sunday's Bookstore basketball action will have complete coverage on WVFI AM-64, beginning at 1 p.m. with the women's final and the North-South all-star game. Kevin Herbert and Rick Rietbrock will call that action. Rudi Brandl and Sean Pieri will be courtside for the men's final, starting at 3 p.m. ­
The Observer 

Hey, let's be careful out there~ 


Public Hrvlce announcement by the Oovemor'a Taak Force to Reduce Drunk Driving and 
TheObHrYer 
Thf! OhSf!rt'f!r Notre: Dam<· olfin·. lcKar<·d on th<· third floor of l.al·onum· ~lud<·nt (.rnlc:r. al'l'l'Jll' da,Mfi<·d adn·ni,inl( from') am until ·t p m...\lunda\ throul(h Frida) The Ohs..rr•er Saini Man·, offin·. lo<all·d on lh<· thrrd floor of llal(l(ar Collrgc: <.l'nll'r. Jl'l'l'Jll' da"ifinb from 1.! ~0 p m until .~ p m...\1on· dar though Frida\ lkadlim· lor m·xt-da' Lla"rfi<·d' i' -~ p.m All da"ifi<·d, muM h<· prt"pard. l'ilhl'r in Jl<'r">n or h\ marl <harl(<' i' I 0 <Tnt' pc:r fi\'c: •·hara<··








Classifieds 
tc:r' ·r dav. 

NOTICES 
TypjngAval~ 
287~ 
W~TW!Ing 
272-41827 
T~ 
277-11131 
GOVERNMENT HOMES from 11 (U ~r). AltO delinquent tax property. Call 806-e&H!OOO ext. GH·IIB:M tor lnforma· lion. 
TULLER WORD-PROCESSING SER­VICE SEE US FOR ALL YOUR TYP­ING NEEDS PICK-UP/DELIVERY 291­1976 
Ride NEEDED 10 COLUMBUS. OHIO on Friday May 2. Call Bill at 4004. 
Are you a Saint Mary'• otudent look· 111111or a wall paying oummar job that will allow you to gain proleoolonel ex· pertence? Apply now lor a poe ilion ao 1 PHDNEIMAIL Caller. You will be caill1111 alumn11, parenla, and lrtendo ol SMC aa part of a lundralalng p<O· gram. Apply now at the SMC peroon­nel oltlce or call Martha Hawlll at !i3!i1 lor more dltalle. Aloo nlldld · Clerical help. You do not n11d to be a SMC otudlnl to be a clertcal. Apply now I 
NDISMC CHARITY BALL A family celebration of /lie Saturday, May 2 at the ACC. Gat involved now. 
NEED BEER MONEY? I NEED GRAD TIXI BILL 277·5817 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233·70011 
GOVERNMENT JOBS. S18.a.<J · 1511,230/yr. Now Hiring. Call 805-887· 8000 Ext. R·ll834fo< currentlldlralllll. 
SPRING BALlII 8Civl up 10 10 ,..._.. Apr.17-30-ST. FRANCIS 8HOI'H­behind Fatima...,... C..,Open 10 
a.m. ·Ip.m. llon.·llll. 
CLAUINDS FOft THI! NI!XT PUBUSHIHG DAY WILL 81! AC. cePTI!D UNTIL2 P.ll. DAILY. 
LOST/FOUND] 
LOST: KEY CHAIN with yellow "Grace Hall' lag at party on Colfax St. or on campus. Without them I can't open my room, mailbox, car, or house. Please help me by calling 283­3810 or leaving them with rector, Fr. Lardner. REWARD. Thanks. 
LOST: KEYS, APRIL 9, ON SOUTH QUAD OR POSSIBLY AT UNIVERSITY PARK MALL. THERE WERE FIVE KEYS ON A PLAIN RING WITH NO TAG. S20 REWARD. PLEASE CALL CHUCK AT XXX·1956 
LOST-two notebooks and an Engineering Materials book from South Dining Hall on Thursday, April 
17. Please return them to the dining hall -It will lake me hours to recopy all the notes. (I didn't really want anyone to see the test I nearly latled either. . .please return II so I can redeem myself on finals.) 
SSMOTHEZE 

SSMOOTH EZES my 2 yr. old son's basketball was mistakenly taken from the bookstore game on Stepan 2 at/around 4 p.m. Sunday 4/20. It Is a Wilson Supers hot b-ball. A MacGregor b-ball was left In Ita place. The MacGregor has SMOOTH EZE written ol II. II you know anything about this mixup, please call Jim Mills at 272-8180 (of. lice), 27HI039 (home). My son can tell lhe dlllerence despite the fact thai the balls are of comparable quail ty. 
Lost, a gold bracelet with Egyptian charms on Saturday 19th, at Corby Sir. II has a personal value and means a lot to mel II found please contact Amlra at 288-5420, or Nancy at291-8361. GENEROUS REWARD 
LOST: SILVER RING (ADJUSTABLE), TWO HEARTS DESIGN. REWARD. CALL CAROLYN, 283-4819. 
LOST:. K~y· ~~-·k~Y· chain' thai says "Mary's Keys." If found, please call 1704 
FOUND: MEN'S CLASS RING By Flanner and Grace, describe In· rllals and class year to claim. Call Rose 239·7680 9a.m.·1p.m. 
LOST: Blue Kupperhlmer blazer at Lewis SYR, I also found same night a Blue Slallord Blazer. We might have mistaken each others. If this sounds familiar, please call Bryan at1664. 
MISSING: The MUR BALL From Rock Tuesday Call Brian 288-5451 or stop by 1303 Library No Questions Asked Valued more than lila Itself A man's basketball Is a sacred thing. Please return II. The life you save may be your own. 
L..-=W=A~N_-T_E-D_--, 
HFLP • •NTI!C .. I Dltlk m lmmcodlate Or> n11111. E•er F-oiiPIII'I-ti-Avail.
.t•. 

through Summer.C.II233-11114 7a.m.· 1p.m 
Alders needed to CLEVELAND ­AKRON -CANTON -KENT. Leave Friday 4/25 return Sunday 4/27. Call 1699 and ask lor Len. 
WANTED: Ride needed to MSU Frl· day the 25th, normal cost sharing ar· rangements. Ask tor David at x1076, call anytime. 
SMC girl wants OC roommate tor summer and/or fall. She's friendly and outgoing. Call Suzette at 233· 5396 or leave message at 212·4837. Thanks. 
............... 

I need graduation llx. Will IHIY GOOD MONEY. Please call Pal at 269·7340 alter 5:30p.m. 
·············· 
SWIM COACH -boy's varsity, Adams High SchoOl. One-half mile from campus. Nov. lhru Feb. Two practices per dayk, five days/wk. Ap· prox. $1900. Call Mr. Przybycz at 288­4655. 
NEED TICKETS TO N.D. COMMENCE· MENT EXERCISES. WILL PAY ($$). CALL BRENT, 277-0417, EVES. BEFORE 10. 
NEED TIX FOR COMMENCEMENT, will pay BIG $$. Call Steve at 277­0485, evenings. 
need graduation tox. Will pay GOOD MONEY. PLEASE CALL Pal at 289· 7340 niter 5:30p.m. 
D A.E. NI!EOI!D IIIIII!DIATI!LYTO BE IIART Of PLANNING FOR REUOIOUS lllUCAllONAL WIHQ OF I YEAR OLD H1Ci1H ENERGY SOUTHI!RN PARISH. STRONG ROOTS IN A.C.I.A., R.C.I.C., 
fft!'Ne'W. 
CONTACT: SI!ARCH COMIIITTl!l!, HOLY FAMILY CATHOLIC CO. IIUNITY, P.O. BOX 130, CLEMMONS, NC27012. 
SS$$ lots ol hard, cold cash $SS$$ lor your extra graduallon tlcksl(s) leave meag. lor John at239·7278. 
FOR RENT] 
FURNISHEl HOI SE~ CLOS[ TO..ND FOR NEXT SC:HOOL YEAR 2876389 
4 & 5 BEDROOM HSES FOR RENT, BLOCK OF 5 HOUSES (3 LEFT) S400 MO. CALL 258-01133 OR 234·113&4. 
House lor summer or next year, 1 mi. N. of campus. $125/mo. 674-6595 alter 5p.m. 
3 bedroom apartment, summer only. Fully furnished, 10 min from NO, beaul•lul S300 mo 233 6298 (even· 1ngs, 
SUMMER.& BDAM HOME. 272-8306 
[ FORSALE 
SEL 'i'OUR CLASS BOOKS FOR Ill .. NL ~-~EDITI CUll notes available. PAN· . IRA 3 BOOKS 937 South Bend Ave. :·--'"12 
,.,_,... -IMAGEWRITER, VERY GOOD r jJ WITH CABLE, MANUAL, CAR· PYING CASE $275 OBO. 7016 CAM­PUS OA 233·1299 EVES. 
F()A 'SALE; 'L1k8. ~~;,; GE ~~~~-~ -~~~~ 
.v/full Ironing board and cover. $15. Kelly 233·5284 evenings. 
79 BUICK SKYHAWK. Cl..n, loadld.272.fl306 
FOR SALE -2-bld loft, ftnlshed & stained, black vinyl ~and 2 dreulra. Call Sheila at272·1011. 
FOR SALE AIRLINE TICKETS. BEND TO N.Y. LGA MON, MAY 19$79. CALL MAUREEN AT 288·5073. 
FOR SALE 4 COMMENCEMENT TIXS BEST OFFER OR WILL TRADE FOR USED CAR SEND OFFER TO P.O. BOX 964 NO, IN 46558 B4 05/07/86 
5 bdrm house. Fully furnished. All ap­pliances & furniture Included. Great Investment. Nice neighborhood. 4 miles from NO. $22,000. Call evenings 288·3109. 
KODAK FILM FOR 35 CENTS PER ROLLIII For more Information, call 37oCI71a1WnlllJJI\_,Ilelorq, JO, 11/ld even· lngs alter 6pm. 
-·"\'···························· 
GRADUATION TICKETS FOR SALE II II II BEST OFFER BY 4/27 CALL 277·1484 or 277-1943 ask lor SILAL 
Commencement Tickets Needed. Kalhlx5848 
TICKETS 
FOR SALE COMMENCEMENT TIXS BEST OFFER 2811-8417 B411 PM 
Need Graduation Tlx Desperately II! WILL PAY ANY PRICEIII John4057 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BaER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.ll. U.S. 31 N., 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
Hungry? Call YELLOW SUBMARINE at 272·HIKE. Delivery houra: 5pm·12am Monday-Thuraday; 5pm-2am Friday; 3pm·1am Saturday; 4pm·10pm Sunday. 
PREGNANT? 
NEED HELP? 
Call 234-0363. 24-hr. hotllne, 
counseling & free pregnancy test. 
WOMAN'S CARE CENTER 
NOTICE My land Ia closed tOday I 
NOTICE 
Established Band, Into New Music ­Looking lor a Guitarist and Drummer lor Next Year, CALL MIKE 1778 
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Charity Ball with honorary emctte Lou Holtz May 2, 8 p.m. • 1 a.m. at the ACC Pro­ceeds go to World hunger 
All welcome$ 
LOU HOLTZ LOU HOLTZ LOU HOLTZ 
Will speak to the student body at the Blue and Gold Pep-Rally Friday, April 25th at 7:00 p.m. In the Football Stadium. In case of rain head to the Main Arena of the ACC, same lime. Come show your support for the Football Team!! 
1 think I'd rather be a flight attendant than a chemist 
MAKE EXTRA DOLLARS THIS SUM· MEAl TAKE THIS JOB HOME. Call 272-6260 weekends, 272·9181 weekdays. 

Van Ia a ..nuaaanc•" to our •oclety. BEWAREIII 
Jill, What do you mean that lhoae "Van" peroonata are lntereoll"111 
Here'• another, Van le • ..nu1unce" 
and avallable(yeah,Aighl) I I 

FREE COUPONS In lhl yellow pag11 of the Campuo Tellphonl Directory. UMihem tOday I 
CLUB IT ALIA T -SHIRTS: CALL 1581 (FRED) OR 2114·5418 (REBECCA) FOR MORE INFORMATION. 
LOFTS LOFTS LOFTS IIIII TWO SMC LOFTS FOR SALE! CHEAP!! II CALL 284·4401. 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE I II 

COMPLETE MADNESS! I I Srend your FRIVOLOUS FRIDAY night at COMPLETE MADNESSIIII Dance to the tunes of Mad Money at Stepan Center! II 
To the guy In the computer lab who unplugged my terminal last Tues...Sorry I was such a rag·l was only mad at the damn computer. 
HELP! ANYONE KNOWING ANYTHING ABOUT THE HISTORY OF THE IRISH TERRIER AS AN N.D. MASCOT PLEASE CONTACT MARGE ANDRE 1a.<l STRIEFF LN, GLEN· WOOD, ILL. 80425 OR CALL (312) 799­5792. 
TO MY FAVORITE SAINT, ST. JUDE I didn't always have lime for you, but you always had time lor me Watch over me during finals 
MARYPArS BACK! 

Yesterday on North Quad-What a mockery! SUICIDAN TENDENCIES should have won and you know IIIII 
P.S. TIM MALONE, who are you and where have you been all my life? 
JIM HOGAN -I WANT YOU...IN THE MUD PITS!! 
HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY TEEI REMEMBER HAPPINESS IS SUN· DAES WITHOUT NUTS... LOVE, MEESH. 
Plunge In I as RASTA WEEK splashes oil FRI. night at Lee's Ribs! 
THANKS ST. JUDE I 

O.K.. so this Is one day late, but we still love ya and want to wish BARBIE SEIDEL a super 20th b·dayl Remember always to live on the edge!-Love Laura and Eva 
Thank yOu, St. Jude. 
Charity Ball? 
CharttyBall. 
Charity Balli 
ORIGINAL MOVIE POSTERS! IL· LUSTRATED CATALOG -three 22 cent stamps. CINEMAVERITE, BOX 315, MENLO PARK, CA 94026. 
AN TOSTAL'S FRIDAY NIGHT DANCE COMPLETRE MADNESSII 9-1, STEPAN! GET READY, GET SET, ... GO CRAZY Ill! 
PREGNANT? CONSIDER ADOPTION. LOVING PROFESSIONAL CATHOLIC COUPLE CAN PROVIDE A BRIIGHT FUTURE FOR YOUR CHILD. CALL COLLECT (217) 387·3379 AFTER 7:00pm. 
DEAR DIANE, Since I won't be here lor X-mas '86 I thought I would make a Sant wish list for you: A Quarter to finally get that cup ol coffee; a basket ol gumballs; a French tutor; a year's supply ol flowers; a package of Atra twin blades; an earplug (right on­ly); and a green Charmo pop with a 6'2" well-buill bOyfriend who won't bruise you while rasslln' or cover you body with lillie circular red marks. Just kidding about the boyfriend. MY FRIEND ALWAYS, GEORGE 
To Mom: How fortunate we are to have a mother who cares enough to put100 ltlto raising her children right. You're a classy lady and we love you lots II Andre, Michele and Marc 
HIFLY, WINDSURFER, MARLIN sallboards 50 per cent off. SUPER SALE. Complete pkgs. $299. Bring this ad for free $100 accessory package with board purchase (S299ex). M & T Marine Dial. 616-375­
9883. 
Happoy 21st Birthday Mallssa Strong Love, John 
I think I'd rather be a flight attendant than a chemist. 
ANYONE wanting to vote for UMOC or has money, drop It oil at 803 P.E. by Saturday noon. 
ND AND JR WELCOME THE RILEY'S AND THEBONGORNO'S EnJoy the game 
The ultimate weekend tor Nick· Bookstore hoops, Beth & a birthday 
? 
MMarlanne and Carolyn To the 2 girls who will be drinking like FISH thla weekend: Ask not tor whom the bell tolls, It tolls lor I heel C&C 

I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I I I 
I I ~~~~-~~i~~~t~~~~~~~~~-F~~~~~,l~-p~IO
I 
I I 
I U.S. must promote democracy, not containment
I I I 
The people of the United States have long 
I 
regarded their country as a bastion of liberty
I 
and democracy. Through two centuries of
I I extraordinary political freedom and pro­I digious economic prosperity, the values of I popular self-government and an economy
I 
grounded in a free marketplace have become 
I 
intrinsic to the American consciousness.
I 
tras, our government argues, we may rid Nicaragua of the pestilence of communism so that he people may establish a free and democratic society, just as they have been aching to do all along. Of course no one in the White House or the State Department really believes such naive hogwash; we could not care less whether the Nicaraguan govern­ment preserves freedom and democracy, so long as it keeps us comfortable by spurning Moscow and Havana. The United States has a long, embarrassingly shameful history of intervention in the internal affairs of foreign nations. Though in such instances we always asserted that we were acting to liberate some freedom-loving nation from the Kremlin's oppressive fetters, invariably we only made matters worse. 
In 1954 American business interests in Guatemala collaborated with the CIA to in­stigate a coup to overthrow the only democratic government in that country's history, because it was beginning to in­troduce labor unions, child labor laws, minimum wages, among other institutions taken for granted in United States but mysteriously perceived as subversive in Guatemala. The Eisenhower Administration cited the Guatemalan government's purchase of a paltry shipment of Czechoslavakian weapons as conclusive evidence of extensive communist influence. The ousted govern­ment was replaced by a series of murderous dictatorships spanning more than three decades, regimes wholly repugnant to the values we cling to so dearly for ourselves but unscrupulously compromise for others. 
The menace of communist expansionism in Central America, about which President Reagan has been fulminating incessantly, exists largely as a fundamental misunderstanding of the effects of our policy toward the region. It hardly should be sur­pnsmg that the Sandinistas, confronted with the United States' onslaught of con­tempt and overt support of their moral enemies, are now relying upon Cuban and Soviet assistance. 
The Cuban missle crisis of 1962 took place after the United States had launched a massive covert war against the new Cuban government that included a CIA­orchestrated invasion at the Bay of Pigs in April, 1961, several attempts to assassinate Fidel Castro, and an exhaustive program of economic sabotage. It seems inconceivable that Castro would continue to tolerate any Soviet military presence in his country were it not for the presence 90 miles away of ana­tion that has tried to knock him off repeated­ly for a quarter of a century. Nor should Nicaragua be any different. 
As her ambassador JG---the United States, Carlos Tun~old St. Louis Post­Dispatch /editorial writers in March: 
"Nicar.lgua will never be a foreign base for any foreign powers ... once the aggression is over then all the foreign military advisers we have in Nicaragua today will go back to their countries." 
Every time the United States interferes in the domestic affairs of another nation, it makes a mockery of the principles for which its people have often fought and died. The people of Nicaragua must be left to deter­mine the future of their nation, independent of foreign pressure and animosity. Whether they choose liberty or oppression, democracy or authoritarianism, capitalism or communism, the United States remains morally bound to respect the sovereignty of Nicaragua. To the extent that we can en­courage and support the establishment of democratic institutions, we ought to do so, but we must not force our values down their throats. On the other hand, however, we should not hesitate to sharply criticize any foreign government whose activities run con­trary to our values. Nor should we shy away from enforcing external sanctions against such regimes when appropriate. 

The interests of the United States lie not in toppling foreign governments that we find distatsteful, but rather in asserting the right of all nations to self-determination. Toward this end we have a legitimate interest in halting Nicaraguan-sponsored subversion against the sovereign governments of her naighbors. Furthermore, in the interest of our national security, the United States must adamantly oppose the presence of any Soviet or Cuban military forces in Central America. The Contadora peace initiative ad­vocated by Mexico, Colombia, Venezuela, and Panama provides the opportunity for a diplomatic solution to the Central American conflicts, but our support of the contras only thwarts the peace process. Nicaragua can scarcely be blamed for refusing to negotiate with the United States so long as it continues to promote civil war, bloodshed, and political turnoil within their country. Spen­ding millions of dollars in contra aid will do nothing but fill Nicaragua's graveyards and earn the United States the contempt of its southern neighbors. A genuine, lasting solu­tion acceptable to both adversaries demands adherence to a foreign policy consistent with our values. Whether the current administra­tion has the moral courage to do so remains dubious. 
Paul Newett is a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 

P.O. Box Q 
I I I I I I I 
._.. 
PauiNewett 
wish you were here 
With the reshuffling of the global balance of 
power following the Second World War, the 
Soviet Union, a nation whose fundamental 
political and ~onomic values were an­
tithetically opposed to our own, emerged as 
the United States' most formidable rival in 
our history. In response to the threat of com­
munism, the United States has unwittingly 
subordinated its values of democracy and 
free-market economics to the foreign-policy 
objective of containment. 
We perceive ourselves engaged in a critical struggle with the Soviets over the political and economic futures of the Third World na­tions as they are only beginning to attempt to define themselves. Rather than face com­munism with rational concern and cautious determination, we have responded hysterically. Consequently, we have allowed our moral fortitude to degenerate to such an extent that we have found ourselves propp­ing up many brutal, corrupt, right-wing tyrants who have styled themselves as enemies of communism.Nowadays we lavish economic and military aid upon any number of latter-day Hitlers, political criminals who have no more sympathy for democratic values than did Otto von Bismarck and con­siderably less regard for human life and dignity. 
Included in this category are President Ronald Reagan's beloved "freedom fighters" the Nicaraguan contras fighting to topple the leftist Sandinista government of that coun­try. The Sandinistas took power in 1979, en­ding more than four decades of authoritarian, feudal rule by the Somoza family. Not long therafter, the new regime began to face an internal insurrection from a guerilla army led by former Somoza proteges and trained by the CIA. Initially the CIA was dispatched to Nicaragua to attempt to halt the flow of weapons from the San­dinistas to leftist rebels in El Salvador, but today there is no doubt concerning the United States' intention: the overthrow of a legitimate foreign government. The Reagan Administration justifies its drastic action against the Sandinista regime on. two grounds: first, the United States, as a global champion of freedom and democracy, has a duty to liberate Nicaragua would gravely threaten the security of Central America and of the United States, since it would naturally allow the presence of Cuban and Soviet military forces within its borders, from which communist revolution may be spread throughout the region. 
How arrogant we have become, to believe that we can manage the internal affairs of another nation better than the indigenous people themselves. By supporting the con-
Doonesbury 


Use of 'Christian card' needed for divestment 
Dear Editor: 

I would like to thank Professor Donald Kommers for his letter of April 21 in The Observer because his comments came as a real reminder to me and, I assume, also to some of my fellow members of the Anti­-Apartheid Network that ours is not the sole correct Christian position on thr. issue of divestment. As human beings we have no closer contact with God or with the truth than anyone else and should make no such claims of superiority. When it comes to mat­ters of social and political policy, there is no single, definite Christian stand. If we have 
been "self-righteous and intolerant" we have 
erred and are grateful to Kommers for poin­
ting this out. 

I hope, however, that Kommers doesn't in­
tend to relativize Christian beliefs into com­
plete inactivity. Anyone who claims to be a 
follower of Jesus of Nazareth, must 
recognize that His love for humanity took 
the form of concrete action, not that of eter­
nal debate and indecision. There comes a 
time when Christians, having researched and 
deliberated extensively, must answer the call 
of their heart; hoping that this might ap­
proach the will of God. · 

Of course Jesus had the advantage of bet­
ter access to the truth than we have, but He 
did leave us a concrete life replete with ex­
amples of how we, too, might glimpse the 
truth. No Christian, no matter of what 
political bent can deny that one of Christ's 
supreme commands was that His followers 
heed the cry of those fellow human beings 
who are poor and oppressed. 

No Christian will deny that there are poor 
and oppressed human beings in South 
Africa. But how many have truly heard theu 
cries? 

When it takes continual prodding to get 
the Board of Trustees to even reexamine, 
much less change, the university's investment 
Garry Trudeau 
HE'S BeeN ON 7HAT ZOMBI& 
WHATH£ !<&ALLY NlZI/5NOW

NAtAl. HE's 
7RY7D
PA$T8FOR Wta<S, 7HOIJGH. 
15A 6001? NIGHT OF Z's. I 
REMCM/JtR_

STIUPReTTY 
ITU PI?{)8A8t.:tetSOM/3 
JV!iT lEFT !iTR/CT ORJ:JERS 
5/RJttltMR&

aJTOFIT. 
T/M&8CFOR/3 H£ '-. 
H/3/SN'T 70 BC-"'-­
PEEPLYIN
\ 
ReALLY SHA/<$17. 
0/!iTU~! 
toV£:1
I . 
policy, one wonders whether their ears are tuned in to Soweto or to Pretoria and Wall Street. When noble American corporation leaders suddenly become interested in reform after having taken advantage of virtual slave labor for the past twenty-five, one wonders who cry these courageous businessmen are heeding, that of the poor or that of the stockholders. 
When the president of this university con­tinues to insist that these corporations con­stitute the best lever for change in South Africa, one wonders whose cry he is hearing, that of Bishop Tutu, Allan Boesak, Steve Biko, Nelson Mandela, Albert Lutuli, Beyers Naude, Basil van Rensburg, the African Na­tional Congress of South African Trade Unions or Donald Keough et al. 
A Christian has a right to decide which ap­proach is best fit to bring an end to an op­pressive social and political structure; scrip­ture and tradition have no definite answer on the question of divestment. But if those we purport to be helping are begging and pleading in very unequivocal terms for us to divest, to put real economic pressure on the South African government, what right have we, Christian or not, to argue that we know better. 
If members of the Anti-Apartheid Net­work "pull the Christian or Catholic card out of the deck" it is because they want tore­mind those of us who profess to be followers of Jesus to open their ears wide to the cry of the poor and oppressed and disregard all other considerations. Up to this point, because of the reluctance of the administra­tion and the Board of Trustees to take a firm stand against apartheid, the Anti-Apartheid Network is not convinced these members of our Christian community have heard the call of black South Africa, and if more use of the "Christian trump card" is necessary, the Net­work will continue playing it, thanking the Son of God for at least this one lever of in­fluence to make up for otherwise powerless membership in the Notre Dame community. 
Patrick A. Mullen Anti-Apartheid Network member 


Quote of the day 
"If I could walk on water, the headlines would read 'Lou Holtz Can't Swim."' 
-Lou Holtz Quoted in People Magazine Apri/14, 1986 


VieWP-Oint Friday, April25, 1986 -page 11 



Student gained insight as State Senate intern 
A notice posted on the bulletin board out­side the Government Department advertised the availability of internships with the In­diana State Senate during the 1986 General Assembly. Being a government major myself and a resident of Indianapolis, this seemed to be an option worth looking into. No one seemed to know a great deal about it, though tile solons at the Administration Building knew enough to tell me that it would not merit academic credit. 
Doug Hasler 
on the state 
Ultimately, I was invited to join the Senate Minority (Democratic) staff as an intern, one of eleven. For possibly no better reason than for the sake of a change of pace, I accepted. 
I must confess, prior to my internship, I knew very little about my state government. I really don't think I was to blame. My state 

President Reagan right to defend our freedom 
Dear Editor: 
What has President Reagan's raid against Libya accomplished? We must examine this question upon two levels. First, can it not be that the act, in itself, was just? We have proof that employees of the Libyan embassy in East Berlin were behind the killing of inno­cent people in a West Berlin nightclub. We also have evidence pointing to Libyan in­volvement in the Rome and Vienna airport massacres. These attacks are the respon­sibility of Khadafy. Almost everyone ac­cepts this. Is he not, then, guilty of murder? And should he not be punished for it--he, and the nation that supports him? To me, simple justice demands it. 
Secondly, will our tactics work? They will, if we have the resolve to follow it through to the end. Undoubtedly there are things we do not understand about these ter­rorists. But we do comprehend the language they are using. It is one of state-sponsored terrorism--premeditated, indiscriminate violence against innocent civilians in an at­tempt to force us, through fear, to accept their conclusions. Will they not, then, understand our use of force? If states that are supporting terrorism are made to bear a tremendous cost for their actions, will they not eventually be forced to reconsider? And if the number of states willing to harbor ter­rorists dwindles, these outlaws will find it more and more difficult to operate. 
"But violence only leads to more violence," some will say. And indeed, even now terrorists are attempting to strike back. But what did you expect'? Did you really think that these zealots would knuckle under immediately? We realize that these people believe in a cause, no matter how wrong it may be. Thus we must expect counterat­tacks, and persevere in spite of them. History teaches us that those with a just cause can prevail. Abraham Lincoln felt his cause to be the right, and he met the force of the South with superior force. He did not give in when the South met his violence with its own. Neither did Franklin Roosevelt waver before the tenacious resistance of the Germans and Japanese. Ah, but these are different situations, you say. But how dif­
government had made no effort to know me. United States Senator Richard Lugar (R­IN) seems to think he knows me though we have never met. He sends me letters all of the time, and I am not even a Republican. Only as an intern was I able to meet the woman who represents my district in the State Senate. As it turns out, she is a homemaker from Indianapolis. I have known her for three months now and she has yet to send me a single letter. Maybe that is because she knows that I am not a Republ­
can. 
A good word to describe state government as I saw it in Indiana would be "modest." A legislator's office, here in Indianapolis, is nothing more than a desk and a phone. His or her staff consists of a secretary and an in­tern who also work for at least one other legislator. With legislators drawing an an­nual salary of $11 ,600, you have to wonder why bribes ever went out of style. While next year's "long" session will last until April, this year's "short" session had everyone home for good by March. All things considered, I don't see how anyone could expect anything but modest results from a legislative body so conceived. Hoosiers seem satisfied with the arrange­ment. It doesn't cost much, and for most of the year, legislators are where you want them, at home where they can do the least harm. 
The national government in Washington, 
D.C. and state governments are natural rivals in our federal system. It is a friendly rivalry, sort of like Notre Dame and Valparaiso. The national government has been the dominant force in American politics for over fifty years. It was Franklin Roosevelt who, believing that keeping banks open and putting people to work was a legitimate national concern, created federal regulations and programs to address pro­blems that states had been unable or unwill­ing to act against. Ronald Reagan has tried to reverse this concentration of power in Washington and return some responsibilities 
ferent are they? In the Civil War the United States fought for the ideals of Union and freedom. In World War II we again fought for the notion of a democratic socie­ty. Now we find freedom under attack again. Do we care enough to risk fighting and dying for it? Will we realize that ter­rorists, who will not immediately surrender in the face of our military actions, will cer­tainly not be swayed by more vague economic sanctions? The bottom line is: Does freedom mean enough to us to defend it? 
Fortunately President Reagan does care. applaud him for his bold and courageous ac­tion. Again, he has shown leadership; I only pray that those on this campus who proclaim their love of peace, will just as loudly show their love of freedom. Peace and freedom must go together, but both of these ideals are threatened when terrorism operates without impunity. Victory comes not without cost, but let us defend what we hold so dear; let us show we are worthy, however long it may take. 
Kevin Smant Graduate student Dept. ofHistory 


Homosexuals repressed into secrecy at ND 
Dear Editor: 
I can still recall my reaction as I sat staring at the personals ad in The Observer. "Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's"-how peculiar. I have never seen nor met a gay person at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. Is this a real organization? Do these people truly exist here'? 
It has been about a year since I read this ad and over this time I have learned the sickening reality of this phenomenon. I had not seen any gay people at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's because gay people here are repressed into secrecy through discrimina­tion. 
The suffering to which the gay Domer or Saint Mary's woman is subject because of discrimination is absolutely unbearable. "Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's," an organization which tries to support those who are gay and those struggl­ing to come to terms with their sexuality and themselves, is not recognized by the Univer­sity. The administration claims that the group is not consistent with the "mission" of the University. Kind-hearted people, follow­ing Christ's example, by helping their fellow human being, who is hurt, frightened and lonely, are inconsistent with the University's mission? I hardly believe so. On the con­trary, denying gay individuals of the support and encouragement this group provides, leaving them to deal with this frightening ex­perience alone, while constantly reminding them that "you are bad to be gay," I believe, is inconsistent with the "mission" of the University. 
Discrimination, however, does not stop at this level. These exists a certain degree of in­tolerance among students which helps to repress homosexuals even more. Words such as "gay, faggot, homo, queer, flamer (and other obscene derivatives) are so ingrained in our daily language that we don't realize the effec they have on gay people. Almost ~!ways these words are used negatively. 
John,. Halissy's letter in The Observer on April 4 w~ a disheartening reminder of this prevailing attitude of intolerance, I believe the basis for·this discrimination is rooted in simple ignorance of homosexuality. Halissy disagreed with the student government's pro­posed constitution which included a non­discriminatory attitude towards sexual orien­tation or "homosexual perversion" as he would like to call it. He equates homosex­uality with murder, rape and 1incest. Homosexual love, however, is as real' and ge­nuine as heterosexual love in all aspects, sex­ually as well as emotionally. In fact, I believe it is the same. A homosexual finds the emotional attraction, the companionship and the joy of loving another person as a heterosexual does. To equate this natural and beautiful love with murder, rape and in­cest is a "perversion." 
As Mark Rabogliatti said in his letter in the April 14 Observer, the Catholic Church does not consider sexual orientation im­moral, but homosexual acts immoral. Rabogliatti claims ''there is a difference." The Church believes that the immorality lies in the fact that procreation, an integral part in heterosexual love is lacking in homosexual relations. Does this mean that impotent in­dividuals or married couples choosing not to have children are immoral? Does the Catholic Church expect homosexuals to repress all feeling of love and attraction, de­to states and localities. Actually, the Reagan approach has been to stop funding programs administered by the states. As a result, states are free to choose between raising taxes and shutting down "non-essential" services. Such is freedom in America. 

My time at the State House ended too soon for my liking. I will long remember my months there as my introduction to politics. I hope that introduction leads to a lifelong association with public concerns. And I en­courage others to get involved as well. I realize that it is not everyone who is willing to put up with the demands and frustrations of political life. But everyone has an opi­nion. Do us all a favor, yourself included: make your opinion an informed one and make it loud and clear to the rest of us. The country that benefits will be your own. 
Doug Hasler served as an intern for the In­diana State Senate. He will return to Notre Dame as a junior government major and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 

P.O.BoxQ 

nying themselves the beauty of the ex­perience of sexual love? The philosophy, "It's alright to be gay, just don't live a gay lifestyle," makes as much sense to me as say­ing, "It's alright to be a woman, just don't live a feminine lifestyle," or "It's alright to be black, just don't live a black lifestyle," or "It's alright to be who you are, just don't live as who you are." 
Homophobia is a serious problem at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. And from this fear grows discrimination, a discrimination that truly does repress, frighten and hurt gays. The proposed constitution was an attempt to break away from these attitudes and accept homosexuals as they should be. Hlllissy claims our students representatives "HAVE CHOSEN TO SUCCOMB TO THE PRESSURE OF A SMALL GROUP." I believe Halissy, as well as many others have chosen to succuomb to the unfounded in­securities and fears which our society im­poses on gays. I would only hope that students will follow the example of their representatives and greet their fellow gay students with understanding and, yes, love. 
Bob Brady Keenan Hall 


The school year may be winding down, but The Obs~rver Viewpoint Department isn't. We are still look­ing for your opinions. From stu­dent government to federal govern­men~. dining halls to divestment, do you have an issue to address or a problem to ponder? Viewpoint will accept letters and columns from the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity until our last publication date of May 5. We would like to hear from you. 

The Observer 
P. 0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer­sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news IS reported as accu~ately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the op1mon of a maJonty of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the v1ews of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
General Board 

Editor·in·Chief.................. . Joe Murphy Business Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann Managing Editor . ............... Kevin Becker Controller . ................. Alex VonderHaar Viewpoint Editor ................ Scott Bearby Production Manager . ............ Chris Bowler Sports Editor . ............... Dennis Corrigan Photography Manager . . . . . . . . . James Carroll 
Accent Editor . .................. Mary Jacoby Advertising Manager ......... Anne M.Culligan Saint Mary's Editor ............ Margie Kersten Photography Manager. . . . Drew Sandier Executive News Editor . ............ Frank Lipo Systems Manager. . . . . . .. David Thornton News Editor . . . . . . . . . . ....... Tripp Baltz Graphic Arts Manager ......... Mark Weimholt News Editor . ................ Mark Pankowski 
Founded November 3, 1966 

The Observer Friday, April ~5, 1986 -page. 12 


Bullets down Sixers, even series 2-2 

1\PPhoto 
Bullets came out on top last night, 116-111, to tie 
their NBA first-round playoffseries with the Sixers at two games apiece. Details are at right. 



Associated Press 

LANDOVER, Md. -Reserve Dudley Bradley set up the go­ahead basket by Jeff Malone with 43 seconds remaining and then added a free throw with 22 seconds left to give the Washington Bullets a 116-111 victory over the Philadelphia 76ers last night, ty­ing their NBA playoff series at 2-2. 
The deciding game of the best-of-five series will be played at Philadelphia on Sunday night. 
The 76ers, who rallied to win the last two games, overcame a nine-point deficit in the fourth quarter and took a 111-109 lead with 1:31 remaining. 
But after a blocked shot by Cliff Robinson, Jeff Ruland scored to make it 111-111. Ruland missed his ensuing foul shot, but Bradley grabbed the rebound and threw the ball off the shins of Charles Barkley. Washington retained possession out of bounds and Malone converted the tie-breakng basket. 

The Notre Dame Department of Communication and Theatre presents: 


A contemporary adaptation of the ancient popular devotion "The Stations of the 
Cross" exploring the fourteen "stations" 
along Christ's path to his resurrection. 

The Wav of the Cross 
Accordin~ to the Gospel of Mark 
Adaptation and Lyrics by 
Georgia Weber Bain 
and Reginald F. Bain, Sr. 
Music by Reginald F. Bain, Jr. 
Washington Hall 8:10PM April17, 18, 19 and 24, 25,26 
General Admission $4 
Group rates available 
Call (219) 239-5957 






DePbylnt:ield 
Join us Saturday, May 3, in Louisville for the 1986 Kentucky Derby. Gates open at 8:00am. Infield admission is $20.00 per person. 
© 1986 Churchill Downs Incorporated 
·•' 
Women 
continued/rom page 16 
semifinals, to Lewis Hall's eventual championship team. Laura Gleason, who scored eight points in The Almosts' victory over The Pacers Wednesday, explained what The Almosts must do to pull out a victory. 
"It's going to be a tough game," she said. "We just can't give them any second shots. We'll be playing a tight zone." 
The Almosts dominated the boards against The Pacers, with 5-9 Gleason, and 5-10 Patty and Mary Ellen Mileski each pulling down double figures. The Almosts have a height advantage but Revenge, led by aggressive Regi Richter and former varsity guard Denise Basford, probably edge out The Amosts in the strength depart­ment. 
"We really don't know what's go­ing to happen," Richter said. "We're out there to win, or else we wouldn't be here, but it's hard being seeded (the highest remaining seed, after Shooting Back forfeited). It puts a lot of pressure on us. We've all played against The Almosts in interhail, so we know its going to be tough." 
Kara England and Marilu Almeida both played on last year's near-miss at the title, while Colleen 
Donnelly  is a veteran  interhall  
player.  The  Almosts'  captain  
Claire  Welsh  runs  the  offense,  

while Laura Hellert plays in the off-guard position. A strong 2-3 zone defense with the towers of Gleason and the two Mileskis will try to shut down Richter's scoring potential. 


ANNOUNCING THE 
Monday Night Special• 
.,.. ~ ........... ...4-1:11 ~......., 
'10.00 '12.50~'22.50 
Complete haircut HlghliHhting or coloring IUid dealgn ce ophanea etc. 
formulated tor your hair type complete .w/ha~rcut and dealgn. All condltaonlng Included. 
ALL SERVICES PERFORMED 
UNDER THE SUPERVISION OF 
THE MICHAEL & CO. 
EDUCATIONAL TEAM. 
2041 E.lrellnd It Ironwood 
& ca 
South Bend 291·1001 HAIRCONCEPTS 

50'S AND 60'S BAND 

'CHANTILLY LACE' 
appearing at 
Friday and Saturday April25and 26 9:30p.m. -2:30a.m. 
20 oz. Mug of Beer $1.25 60 oz. Pitcher $3.25 
----~-----------~--------------~-­

The Observer 

52929 u.s. 3' rtorth 
Deheoy ...-....,.. ---­
With this coupon receive a 
Large Pizzafor Medium Pizza Price Medium Pizza for Small Pizza Price 
(Delivery Orders Only) 
After 5 pm on Fri.-Sat. Only (Limited Delivery Area) 
277-5880 Expires May 3rd 
~----------------------------~ 

Friday, Aprll 25, 1986-page 13 

APPholo 

Ron Guidry, shown here hurling in earlier­Yankee Stadium. The win boosted New York's season action, pitched the New York Yankees to a 
record to 11-4. Details of this and other major 2-1 win over the Cleveland Indians last night in leal{ue games are below. 
Notre DaDie Avenue ApartDients 
NOW RENriNG FOR FAIL 
Completely furnished. balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES 
(good deals for Summer Sealon) 
Office at 810 ND Ave 2J4.;6647/156-5716 CallAnydme 
College of Science 

DEAN'S RUN 
Twice around the Lakes (7km) 

Sunday, April 27 at Noon 
Register in 229 Nieuwland 
525.00 IO SJ50.00 Offtava doll 
On any Rent-it-Here, Leav~-it-There Fo~;~L~i~:v~:Gs 
RENT FROM SOUTH BEND TO ANY
Ryder One Way Truck Rental 

~ OF THESE AREAS AND SAVE. 
Offer valid only with this coupon. Not valid with other specials.




RYDER 
SOUTH BEND rents trucks to move it yourself LOCATIONS 
1914 Miami St. 2715 North Bendix Dr. 289-6721 

Ryder Truck RentalwQne-Way 

AMX 
277-3550 OR 

~~~ 
2627 South Main St. 
232-6729 

..................~,~8®W:UUNBB8Ma~:U~~Ma~ 

TrtMarll of Northam Indiana 211-2M-7231 1002-8-5710 

Error helps Yanks defeat Tribe, 2-1 
Auodate4 Pre~~~ 
NEW YORK-Bobby Meacham 
scored the tie-breaking run on a 
two-out error by Cleveland first 
baseman Pat Tabler in the fifth in­
ning and the New York Yankees 
beat the Indians 2-1 last night, giv­
ing them an 11-4 start for the first 
time in 28 years. 
Ron Guidry, 3-0, scattered 10 
hits, all singles, and stolen bases by 
Rickey Henderson and Meacham 
set up both runs for the Yankees. 
Guidry did not walk a batter and 
struck out four to move into second 
place on the Yankees' all-time list 
with 1 ,529, three more than Red 
Ruffing. Whitey Ford is the leader 
with 1,956. 
The Yankees managed only five 
singles off Neal Heaton, 0-1, and 
reliever Ernie Camacho. 
Mets 5, Cards 4 
ST. LOUIS· George Foster singled 
home Wally Backman from second 
base with two outs in the lOth inn­
ing last night, and the New York 
Mets extended their winning streak 
to six games with a 5-4 victory over 
the St. Louis Cardinals. 
The de feat marked the first time 
the Cardinals had lost a regular­
season game in which they led go­
ing into the ninth inning since the 
final contest of 1984, a span of 90 
such games. 
The Mets trailed 4-2 entering the 
ninth, but tied it on Howard 
Johnson's two-run homer with one 
out off Todd Worrell, 0-l. 
Wally Backman led off the New 
York lOth with a walk and then 
stole second. Worrell retired Keith 
Hernandez and Gary Carter, and 
intentionally walked Darryl 
Strawberry. Foster then lined his 
game-winning single to left. 
Roger McDowell, the fifth New 
York pitcher, worked the final two 
innings and raised his record to 2-0. 
Dodgers 6, Braves 3 
LOS ANGELES -Mike Marshall and Greg Brock hit solo homers and Mariano Duncan ended a 2­for-21 drought with a two-run dou­ble last night to lead the Los Angeles Dodgers to a 6-3 victory over the Atlanta Braves. 
L-----------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer 
Friday, April25, 1986-page 14 

Belles at 12-11 after splitting Manchester twinbill 
By GLORIA ELEUTERI 
Sports Writer 
I 
The Saint Mary's softball team rais­ed its record to 12-11 by splitting a 
twinbill ·against Manchester Tues­
! 
day. In the first game the Belles
I 
defeated Manchester 10-3. They
I 
dropped the second game, 8-6. 
I ~ 
I In the first game, the second inn­I 
ing saw runs scored by Katie Boldt, 
I 
Lorri White and Marge Reynolds, 
I 
who walked, singled and doubled,
I I respectively. Cathy Logsdon I knocked in Reynolds with a single. 
,I 
i t Colligan I 
continuedfrom page 16 
I 
I has qualified in doubles play during ! those visits too. But forColligan it t always remains a special experience 
each time one is invited to play. 
"Any player's goals would be to get to the NCAA's individually and as a team," says Colligan. "I've In the third, Kris Pantelleria singl­ed, stole second and scored on a passed ball. 
In the sixth, the Belles scored six runs. Reynolds and Logsdon singl­ed and Trish Tierney got on to load the bases. Pantelleria's walk forced home Reynolds, and Amy Cuti singled to drive in Logsdon and Tierney. Janine Adamo walked to fill the bases for Mary Malina. Malina hit a base-clearing double .to close out the scoring for the Belles. 
Reynolds was 3-for-4 with two 
been lucky to experience both dur­ing my college career." 
Currently, the women's tennis team stands 15-4 on the season. Colligan has paced the Irish with an identical 15-4 singles slate and 15-4 doubles mark with partner lzzy O'Brien. This weekend the Irish find themselves on the road once again, as they travel to Southern Il­linois to take on SIU-Edwardsville and St. Louis University. 
RBis in. the first game. White went 2-for-3, and Malina added three RBis. Cathy Logsdon was the win­ning pitcher for the Belles. 
In the nightcap, the Belles got off to an early lead in the first inning when Cuti walked, stole second, and scored on an Adamo single. Adamo scored on a single by Malina. 
Two more runs were added in the third as Pantelleria singled, stole second and third, and scored on a passed ball. Next, Malina, Boldt, and White all walked. Malina scored on a passed ball but Boldt and White were left on base. 

Manchester bounced back in the bottom of the third to score four runs. In the fourth, Manchester capitalized on three Saint Mary's errors, scoring three more runs to take a 7-5lead. 
In the sixth, the Belles were only able to score one run. Laura Danch walked and moved to second on a sacrifice by Tierney. Pantelleria ad­ded another hit to drive in Danch. 
Pantelleria stole three bases, had two RBis and batted 3-for-4 in the second game. 
"We are getting the hits. Now the defense must support the offense and not compound the errors," said Head Coach Scott Beisel. "Right now we are going to have to learn through games because there is not enough time between games to work on the defense. Most errors are routine plays so I think we just need to concentrate more." 
With districts coming up next week, the Belles are looking to defeat their next opponents. That game will be against Aquinas Col­lege on Friday in Grand Rapids, Michigan. 
WANTED: 

A Female Mechanical Engineer with 2 years structural engineering background, for a Pilot project. 
Please send resume to: 

~1rmrnr;rn1r mr;1rnwrrrr~ rnoomrnw LPrnr;~r;m1P~ 






Ken Kesey: 

On the bus, 

Find out in five dags.I I.. The Future Per,ectives Series . 

L-R{IIH{(((((m::k) ({(fiOO !~
I 111111 


~------~---------~--.---~-~----~----~---..----~-----~---~----------~------1 

~~~C3L~-----------------------------------------F-r-id_a_y_,A_.pr_il_2_5_,_19_8_6 P~ag•e-1
___ ..5 

Bloom County 

Zeto 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Blunder 5 Irishman 9 Thickens 
13 Old Peruvian 14 Common abbr. 15 Dialect 16 Ogle 17 "-Dlmittis" 18 Noted princess 19 Vivid 21 Slag 22 Deride 23 Heb. vestment 25 Bore 27 Coated a bow 31 Near grads 34 Polar sight 36 Proximal 37 "Be all you -" 39 Novel 
40 Architectural curve 41 Of grand­
parents 42 Suspects 44 Mr. Ayres 
Berke Breathed-The Far Side by Gary Larson 
Kevin Walsh 


-
The Kongs at home 
Doonesbury by Garry Trudeau 



The Student Activities Board presents~ 
o+ 
c"c" 
Please no food or drink in auditorium. 
fT'5 00/ET OiJT TH/3/?E.. 700Cl.II&T. 
\ 

FRESHMEN interested In being chairperson or on a commiffee for the 1987 
SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL 


Applications are available at the SAB office, or.LaFortune until A rll25th.


45 Counterstroke 4 7 Deception 49 Impudent youth 51 Stravinsky 
and Gorin 54 N.C. city 57 Oleanders 60 Noisy 61 Kind of wine 62 Worthless 63 Chaplain 64 Executive 
office 65 Animated 66 Coaster 67 Take-out word 68 Analysis 
DOWN 1 Plate 2 Lollapaloozas 3 Indian or 
Arctic 4 Cultivated 5 Middle 6 Small case 7 Spear 8 Gentle 
treatment letters 
1986 Tribune Media Serv1ces, Inc. All R1ghts Reserved  4/25{86  
9 Abrading  
10 Mild oath  
11 Sequestered  
12 Mob follower  
15 So long to  
Pedro  
20 Retreat  
21 Mince  
24 Sisters of  
shrimp  
26 Streamer  
for 7 D  
28 Diamond  
29 Where the  
soffit is  
30 Nancy was  
a sleuth  
31 Cicatrix  
32 Shankar  
33 Cookie  
35 Passing grade  
38 Braggart 40 Amerind  50 Validate  56 Traveled  
42 Arrest  52 Root.  58 Nuncupative  
43 Prickly weed  53 Regional trees  59 Appear  
46 Participate  54 Skips lightly  61 School of  
48 Sculpture type  55 Soviet river  whales  

--------·----~---~~-~---~­
Friday, Apri125, 1986 -page 16 

Final four in Women's Bookstore square off today on Stepan Courts 
Cookie softened its dominating them as we've been playing," Ben­
By KATHLEEN McKERNAN 

techniques against more talented nett said. "We've heard about the
Sports Writer 

Hearnisms Better Half and Violent Cheerleaders. They have a strong 
The final four. After a week of Femmes II squads. post down low (in Kathleen tournament action that began last We Weren't Cheerleaders had a McDavid) and a good point guard Friday with 62 teams, only the top distinct height ~dvantage over 5-3 (Laura Gidley). 
four teams remain in Women's And Under, who were concen­Oreo Cookie also has two good Bookstore Basketball. At 5 p.m. to­trating on practicing for the point guards in former varsity day on the Stepan Courts, Double women's slam dunk competition, in player Lisa Brown and volleyball Decker Oreo Cookie plays We the first round, winning 21-1. The player Rochelle Holder, who has Weren't Cheerleaders in High Cheerleaders also had a stroke of averaged five points in three School, and The Almosts take on luck on their road to Stepan, with tourney games. We Weren't Revenge of the Quixotic Quint in first-seeded, Shooting Back Cheerleaders, with thieving the semifinal round of competition. forfeiting in the second round. specialist Lauren Romeo, ap­
The surviving pair square off Games against Slammers and preciate the ability of the Cookie. Sunday at 1 p.m. in a battle for the Negligence established the "It should be a good game," coveted Women's Bookstore Cheerleaders talent, as they McDavid said. "We're really look­Basketball crown. defeated the talented and ex­ing (orward to the competition." 
Neither team in the Double perienced law school team in the Ann Curoe and Bennett, at the Decker Oreo Cookie-We Weren't quarterfinals. post positions, take care of the re­Cheerleaders in High School Both Oreo Cookie and We bounding for Cookie, while Holder 
entered the tournament among the Weren't Cheerleaders recognize to­leads the scoring attack. Cookie top four seeds. Both teams, day's challenge. Oreo Cookie, in­fills out its roster with freshman however, revealed their potential to famous for its aggressive play and Breen-Phillips star Carolyn Burke. advance and competitive nature talented athletes, will have the op­In the other game, Revenge of the with definitive blowouts of weaker portunity to test its skills against Quixotic Quint, who lost last year teams. Oreo Cookie embarrassed 5 the strong defense of We Weren't in the semifinals, plays The People 'Qualified' to Talk About Cheerleaders. Zanette Bennett, the Almosts, Walsh's interhall team Sex and We Don't Know What to Cookie's low post, revealed the which lost in the interhall Call Ourselves by a combined score game plan for Oreo Cookie. 
see WOMEN, page 12 of 36-1. In the next two games, "I think we're just going to play 


Women's tennis standout Colligan has no regrets 
By TRISH SULLIVAN 
comments the four-year monogram That year, she faced future Irish although her family would have one as is, let alone when you're a Sports Writer winner. "But I don't have any teammate, Greta Roemer. Ever supported her in any choice. Her freshman," explains Colligan. "But 
regrets. I'm very happy with how since, Colligan knew she would father and two brothers are it was a good learning experience. Ij Mary Colligan had a chance to go we've done this season." concentrate on her tennis game. gtaduates of the University and her was nervous, but the rest of the rest I to Washington, D.C. this semester The tennis season was obviously "You have to start very young with sister currently attends. of the team had been there before, but decided not to. Instead, she not the only factor in Colligan's tennis," says Colligan. "It takes a She arrived to campus at a so that helped. I just tried to main­chose to stay and finish out her decision, but tennis has been a part lot of hard work and practice to im­crucial time for the women's tennis tain a positive attitude and senior year on campus and on the of her life since a very early age. At prove even a little. After my initial team, however. During the spring remember that it was only a game. courts. The number-two singles nine years old, she began taking lessons at the park, l had a private season, number-one singles player All I could do was give it my best player for the Notre Dame women's lessons at the local park along with coach and then started going to Susie Panther was out with a back shot." team knew that the squad may not her older brother. Colligan was tournaments. So that's when my . injury and Colligan was called on Although Colligan didn't make it make the nationals, but she still very sports-oriented, and tennis family and I realized tennis was go­to fill in at that number-one slot. too far that time around, she has wanted to be a part of it all. seemed to be her game. She com­ing to be my main sport." She answered the call with flying participated in the tournament 
"Realistically, the team knew we peted in area tournaments and at Coming to Notre Dame was colors, even qualifying for the every year since. In addition, she wouldn't get to the NCAA's since the age of 13, traveled to her first simply a matter of foll'owing in the NCAA singles tourney that year. we've moved up to Division I," regional tournament in Peru, Ind. family footsteps for Colligan, "It's difficult to play at number-see COLLIGAN, page 14 

Holtz era dawns with 56th Blue-Gold matchup 
By MARTY BURNS 31-0 pasting suffered by the Gold last year. "The teams are broken up evenly and I'm
AND MARTY STRASEN 
predicting a low-scoring game," notes Holtz. 

Assistant Sports Editors 
"The most important thing is to see it go into It all begins tomorrow for new Notre Dame suddent death overtime because we're not head coach Lou Holtz. leaving 'till there's a winner." 
Part of the urgency in determining a win­

'Fhe wave of enthusiasm that began as a rip­ner stems, no doubt, from the fact that the
ple last November and built up all losers will have to contribute a total of 100throughout 6 a.m. winter workouts and hours of volunteer work in community ser­reached its poak after 19 spring practices, is vice. 
now ready to crash down at 1:30 p.m. in "The winning team is donating 100 hours Notre Dame Stadium with the playing of the 
of community service," said Holtz. "But the 56th annual Blue-Gold Spring Classic. losing team is going to do all the work. That With the crashing of that wave may come the may include cutting my grass." shattering of the all-time attendance record So there is a lot riding on this game, this of 35,675 established in the 1981 spring year, for the members of the Notre Dame 
game, the first ever for Gerry Faust. football team -pride, 100 hours of com­munity service and Holtz watching from ring above in the press box. ' "The team knows I'll be up in the pressFootball box," said Holtz. "I think I'm safe up there. 
That's where nobody can holler at me." 
'86 
OFFENSE:

•. 
"It's important after a long, hard spring to Quarterbacks -Although quarterbacks Steve end it all on a fun note and give the players a Beuerlein and Terry Andrysiak have been chance to compete," said Holtz. "It won't be 
competing against each other since last fall, 

any big show for the fans, and people who this time they'll get to do it head-to-head. 
are expecting to see great execution will be The 6-3, 201-pound Beuerlein proved to have disappointed. But it should be fun to watch." 
the best grasp of the new Holtz offense, asIt just might be fun to watch for Holtz, ,demonstrated by his consistent success mov­

who will take a seat up in the press bcx, and ing the team in recent scrimmages. This
for veteran fans, who have endured years of lopsided victories by the talent-stocked Blue display of leadership prompted Holtz to tab squad. This time, teams were actually the junior his no. 1 signal-caller and the drafted evenly by coaches, a fac~ which 
should translate into a closer game than the see AN TOSTAL INSERT, page 4 Lou Holtz makes a point to quarterback Steve Beuerlein 






