--. ----~-~-----­
Adopt-a-Transfer -page 5 

VOL XXI NO. 25 
2 students 


Daniloff released 
charged after 
trying to take 
in secret agreement police car with Soviet Union 
Associated Press His wife Ruth held up a T-~irt
By TRIPP BALTZ 
reading "Free Nick Daniloff."

News Editor 
FRANKFURT, West Germany -In Moscow Danlloff had said: Two Notre Dame students who American journalist Nicholas "I leave more In sorrow than allegedly took possession of a Daniloff flew to the West and anger."
police car have been charged freedom yesterday, released in a In an emotional departure, he with misdemeanors, according still-secretive U.S.-Soviet agree­read a verse by 19th-century Rus­to Chief Deputy Prosecuting At­ment that could help shake off a sian poet Mikhail Lermontov that torney Jane Becker of the County deepening chill in superpower bids farewell to "unwashed Rus­Prosecutor's Office. 
relations. sia, land of slaves," and to its Sean Murphy and Frederick In New York. a Soviet bloc "all-seeing eyes . . . all-hearingLupone were charged with cri­source at the United Nations said ears." 
minal trespassing, a Class A mis­
Gennadiy Zakharov, charged He and his wife then boarded demeanor. In addition, Lupone 
with being a Soviet spy, would a Lufthansa flight that landed In was charged with resisting law be exchanged for Danlloff. But Frankfurt three hours, 40 min­enforcement, also a Class A mis­there was no immediate official utes later, at 8:55 p.m. (.3:55
demeanor. Both are 21 and live announcement on the outline of p.m. EDT), ending a suspenseful at a Rex St. address in South a deal. month during which his arrest Bend. 
President Reagan, visiting had threatened to derail rela­Each charge carries a maxi­Kansas City, Mo., said, "We didn't tions between the world's two mum penalty of up to a year in give in," and said details of the most powerful nations. 
prison and a $5,000 fine. Becker arrangement would be disclosed On hand to welcome Daniloff said the sentences may be today. was Richard Burt, U.S. ambassa­probationary. 
Danlloff, U.S. News & World dor to West Germany. 
Murphy and Lupone were Report correspondent in Moscow The KGB secret service jailed released Friday from the St. for five years, told reporters after Daniloff as an accused spy Aug. Joseph County Prison on their landing in Franfurt: 'Tm grateful .30, in what U.S. officials des­own recognizance. to the president of the United cribed as retaliation for the arrest 
A South Bend Police officer 

States. I'm free, I'm in the West. in New York a week earlier of the responded early Friday morning 
I cannot tell you about any other .39-year-old Zakharov, a 
to a theft at The Commons, 826 arrangements. . . . All I know is physicist and Soviet U.N. em­
N. Eddy, according to Lt. Richard that I am free." ployee. 

Kilgore. The officer left the en­The 51-year-old journalist, Although the U.S. administra­
gine running in the car after ar­appeared to be in good tion had insisted there would be 
riving at the scene. Kilgore said health but tired. no swap of the two men, Secre­
Murphy tried to drive the car out tary of State George Shultz and 
ofThe Commons parking lot and "It's obvious to everyone what Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard 
was blocked by other police cars. has happened," he said. "I was Shevardnadze negotiated for 
Lupone, who was sitting in the arrested without an arrest war­long hours in Washington and 
passenger's seat, then tried to rant. The_ case against me was New York in recent days over the 
escape, Kilgore said. He was ap­.fabricated." fate of Daniloff and Zakharov. 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER .30, 1986 

an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
prehended by police two blocks from the scene. 
In other recent police action, South Bend law officers broke up a party at a house on N. St. Louis Saturday morning and delivered a citation to Paul Browne, 22. 
Browne, a Notre Dame student who lives at the address, was 
The Observer/Paul Oeschger
cited for violation of the city Sacred reflection noise ordinance. According to Kilgore, other citations were 
A passing photographer takes time out from a campus
issued to minors in possession 
tour to snap a shot of Sacred Heart Church's side door. The
of alcohol. Breathalyzers and a 
door and its 'God, Country, Notre Dame' inscription are Notre
K-9 unit were used to conduct 
Dame's tribute to its World War I war dead.
the raid. 
Israelis charge 'Ivan the Terrible' 
Associated Press sadistic guard Jewish prisoners "The accused stabbed his vic­
called Ivan the Terrible. tims in various parts of their 
JERUSALEM -Prosecutors for­u.s. authorities stripped him bodies, tore pieces of flesh from mally charged retired U.S. of citizenship in 1981 after he their limbs," the charge sheet autoworkerJohn Demjanjuk yes­was found guilty of lying about said. "The victims, bleeding terday with torturing prisoners at his Nazi past when he came to profusely, were driven into the a Nazi death camp and operating America in February 1952. gas chambers." 
gas chambers in which hundreds He will be the first person tried In addition, it said, "the ac­of thousands were killed. in Israel on charges of Nazi war cused by his own acts caused the 
The 26-page indictment ac­crimes since Adolf Eichmann was deaths ofhundreds ofthousands cused him of "crimes of incom­convicted and hanged in 1962. of human beings" by running the parable severity," including stab­Eichmann directed the Nazi ex­motor which sent poisonous bing prisoners and tearing off termination of Jews. fumes into the chambers. pieces of their flesh, while ser­Demjanjuk's trial Is not ex­Demjanjuk's American attor­ving as a guard at the Treblinka pected to begin before Decem­ney, Mark O'Connbr, told camp in German-occupied ber. reporters his client was not the 
Poland during World War II. Con­Among details of Demjanjuk's criminal named in the indict­viction could bring the death alleged crimes Included In the In­ment. O'Connor has said the penalty. dictment are cutting off the ear guard called Ivan the Terrible 
Demjanjuk, 66, was born in the of a prisoner named David was killed duringa 194.3 prisoner Soviet Ukraine and worked at a Auslander, whipping an elderly uprising at the concentration plant in Cleveland. He was ex­Jew to death, and stabbing vic­camp 45 miles east of Warsaw. tradited from the United States tims while forcing them into gas 
see NAZI, page 3 
In February, accused ofbeing the chambers. 

He said he was taken into cus­tody to give the Soviet Union leverage in Its efforts to obtain the release ofZakharov, who was arrested in New York a week before Daniloff was picked up. "The KGB did not punish me. The KGB punished itself," he added. 
Some sources in the United States had said a broader deal might also include the release of some Soviet dissidents. The Soviets, at the same time, were seeking relaxation ofa U.S. order 
see DANIWFF, page 3 


Coca-Cola's divestment will not affect ND policy 
By CINDY RAUCKHORST was Inappropriate to com­Senior Staff Reporter ment on the matter until the Board itself addressed the 
The Coca Cola Co.'s recent issue at its Nov. 14 meeting. deCision to sell its holdings in "As far as I know, however, South Africa will have no im­the Coca-Cola Co.'s decision mediate effect on the Univer­will not have much Influence sity's policies of divestment, on the University's as such," according to Notre Dame he said. Board of Trustees Vice­Keough, who has served as chairman Andrew McKenna. Board chairman since last 
McKenna said Saturday that May, also serves as president the University's policies and chief executive officer of toward South Africa are differ­the Coca-Cola Co. ent than those of Coca-Cola, and not significantly related. At a meeting last May, trus­
Coca-Cola announced Sept. tees modified the board's 1 7 that the company planned policy on South African invest­to sell all its holdings In South ment. The policy is character­Africa protesting that Ized by its support ofselective country's lack of progress divestment. toward abolishing apartheid. The overall plan ofdivestment The Board authorized by Coca-Cola will take at least divestment from those com­six to nine months, a com­panies whose business in pany spokesman said. South Africa did not support 
John White, executive aide abolishing apartheid, or to Board of Trustees Chair­caused further deterioration man Donald Keough, said It of South African conditions. 

_j 
The Observer 

Tuesday, September 30, 1986, -page 2 


iJn Brief 
The accident in which Notre Dame freshman Craig Gun­dersen was struck by a car is still under investigation, accor­ding to Chief Deputy Prosecuting Attorney Jane Becker of the St. Joseph County Prosecutor's Office. The alleged driver of the car that struck Gundersen has not been formally charged, Becker said. The student driver was arrested in connection with the accident by South Bend Police Saturday morning for driving while intoxicated. Hospital officials listed Gunderson in good condition Monday night. -The Observer. 
A mail order drug testing kit is available over-the-counter in Kansas. Each Aware Kit, developed by American Drug Screens of Dallas, contains a plastic specimen bottle, a mailing label and directions. The test, conducted at home, must be sent to a lab for analysis. The samples are tested for traces of drugs including cocaine, marijuana, and bar­biturates. Although the tests are meant to help parents, some say that they might have a harmful effect on the family, eroding trust among members. However, "In a business set­ting, the test has value," says one drug and alcohol abuse expert. Each kit costs $25. -The Observer 
The parietals resolution passed by the Student Senate last week will be reviewed by the Campus Life Council this Wed­

" nesday night, Brian Holstannounced at Monday night's senate meeting. If passed there, it will go to Vice President for Stu­dent Affairs Father David Tyson. -The Observer. 
Of Interest 
The Isis Gallery will present a photographic exhibit entitled" "The Dan Ryan Expressway Series" by Chicago photographer Jay Wolke, from Sept. 29 through Oct. 17, 1986. Mr. Wolke's color photographs feature one of the nation's most heavily traveled urban freeways and "use the congested conglomera­tion as a sourcebook to make poignant social commentary." His work has recently been featured at the Chicago Historical Society, Art Institute ofChicago, and the Popular Photography Photo Gallery in New York City. The Isis Gallery is located on the third floor of the Riley Hall of Art and Design at Notre Dame. Hours are 8:30a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. This exhibit is sponsored by both the Department of Art, Art History and Design, and the Student Activities Board. For more information, contact Richard Gray at 239-7602. -The 
Observer 

The Voluntary Action Center of South Bend is inviting all students to become volunteers for Hotline and Helpline. Hot­line provides a 24-hour crisis intervention service, while Helpline provides information on community resources and other services. Both programs are provided free to the com­munity. If you would like more information on these pro­grams, call the Center at 232-2522 from 8:30a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and In Briefs can be submitted at the Observer office on the third floor of Lafortune Student Center until 1p.m. prior to the date ofpublication. OfInterests announce free campus-wide events of general interest. The Observer reserves the right to edit all Of Interests. -The Observer 

Weather 
Thunderstorms today are highly likely, even if they aren't highly likeable, with highs near 80 and lows in the mid 60's. Tomorrow, only a day away, looks like it will bring a 60 percent chance of thun­derstorms. Highs will be near 80. 



The Observer 
Design Editor .......... Rob Luxem Accent Copy Editor . .. Gertie Wimmer Design Assistant ....... Mike Mojica Accent Layout .......... Carey Gels Layout Staff. ....... Kathleen Moran Typists ............... Colleen Foy 
Typesetters ....... Becky Gunderman ND Day Editor . .......... David Lee News Editor ........ Mary Heilmann AdDesign ....... Catherine Ramsden Copy Editor . .......... Regis Coccia Photographer . ......... Mike Moran Sports Copy Editor . ...... Pete Gegen 
-----------. ---. 

Th~ Ob~rv~r ( l \~ ~44 2 tOOO) '' puhlt,hnJ \tond.n llw •u~h t·nd,t\ t'Xl c:pl llllrln~ l'Xilm and \.u. arum pt"ru1d' The Observer'' puhJt,hc:d b' the.: 'llllknt,ltl till' I Ill\ c.·r-.. tl' nt ~nlrc l>amt" and ~;unt \tan·,< ollt")tt'" 
Ibe O~rver ,, "' mc:mher ut The A."i..-..ociated Pre~~-\II n:prudul_ tton n~h~' .trt· 

re~r\ct.l 
Ozone layer destruction continues as companies remain unconcerned 
Imagine my surprise when leafing through a 
newspaper, passing the news of the day and spot­
ting a headline: Scientists predict castastrophes 
in growing global heat wave. 
The word "predict" indicated that yet another group was foretelling the end of the world, one ofmany articles which fill the pages ofour nation's tabloids with headlines such as "Giant meteor to crush the world during the seventh game of the World Series." 
However, this prediction came from some of the nation's leading scientists in front of a Senate sub-committee and based on their findings "there is a very real possibility that man -through ignor­ance or Indifference or both -is irreversiblyalter­ing the ability ofour atmosphere to (support) life," according to Senator John Chafee. 
The particular environmental issue at stake here is the rising world temperatures and disappearing ozone layer which is believed to be occurring be­cause of the manufacturing of certain chemicals. 
Back in 1974 the theory that chlorofluorocar­bons destroy ozone in the atmosphere was sug­gested. However, the Industries argued for further research before production would be curtailed. 
The "greenhouse effect," warmer temperatures coupled with deteriorating ozone layers, left the public eye until the scientists' report was given in June. Meanwhile the temperatures kept rising and the ozone disappearing. 
The wait-and-see attitude of 12 years ago con­tinues by the companies involved. One corporate official advocates this approach since "continued release of CFC's will not pose a significant threat to the environment in the time required to gain a better understanding of the science." 
In looking at research done recently, however, the estimates of ozone deterioration are close to those done In 1974. If nothing else, they are worse. This wait-and-see attitude will not Improve the situation, but only make it worse. The time has come to stop meeting about the problem but to make demands upon the companies. 
In one of Louisiana's industrial areas, now known as the cancer cluster, an executive of one industry could not explain why levels of PCB's were 1 0 times higher by the drainage pipe of the company than anywhere else on the body ofwater. Of course, he could firmly state that the cancer causing substance was not from his company. When asked where it was coming from, he "didn't know." 
Human nature Is to look short-range at the prob­lems facing us and not consider the serious prob­lems which this type of thinking may cause. After generations of the majority looking this way, some of the actions are coming back to haunt us. 
Not only does this concern the environment, but also other areas, including the United States deficit. 
"But what will a few extra degrees do to the world? Castastrophes won't occur until after we're around." Ifthe current trend continues, however, 

Scott Bearby 
Viewpoint Editor 

In as little as 50 years significant flooding would take place, there would be a dramatic increase in skin cancer cases, and current agriculture areas would be threatened. 
Progress and profits are wonderful but a little caution now can keep the world healthier in the long run. With uncertainties and consequences as high as they are, there should not be the right to assume that there are no problems. It is necessary to be optimistic, but a realistic outlook has to exist or our world will continue to be in serious trouble. 
Industry has helped our nation and the world tremendously and continued technology is nec­essary to a better existence, but an emphasis must be placed on the future and not solely on tomor­row. 200 years ago our founding fathers had a concern for the strength of our nation, short term and long term. It seems we should give future inhabitants the same opportunity. 
If the current trends presented to the Senate sub-committee on the environment continue, our future generations 200 years from now will be confused about where Miami and New Orleans are since they will more than likely be underwater. 
The damage is already substantial, but steps can be made to improve the situation ifawareness and concern continue. We all must be careful of our short-term goals and must look long-term more. 
Hopefully, the scientists' prediction of catastrophe will be as unlikely as the giant meteor crashing at the World Series. It is solely up to us. 
Comprehensive programs for persons with: 
Bulimia Nervosa 
Anorexia Nervosa 

Compulsive Overeating 







HOPE 
HealthyOptions for Problem Eaters 
in the treatment of eating disorders. 
An affiliate of Memorial Hospital of South 


' • • • 

' ,l ~ 
The Observer Tuesday, September .30, 1986, -page .3 
Board of Governance debates parietals plan 
By SHARON HEGG dent assistants and the front News starr desk workers. Also, many ex­
The Saint Mary's Board of pressed the concern that the Governance debated the pro­penalty for breaking parietals posed change of the parietal sys­would be more severe than in tem presented last week by the past. Judicial Commissioner Mary Fis­A vote over the proposed her during Monday's meeting. policy change will occur at next 
Fisher suggested that men week'sjoint meeting ofthe Board visiting the dorms continue to be of Governance and the Program­escorted at all times but not be ming Board. required to leave their IDs at the front desk. She said that as In other news, Student Body 
adults, Saint Mary's students President Jeanne Heller met with should be allowed to make adult Richard Chlebek, director of decisions. "It works at Notre safety and security at Saint Dame, why can't It also work at Mary's, to discuss the suggested Saint Mary's?" Fisher said. safety improvements. Chlebek 
Although many at the meeting said that flashing yellow lights agreed with the proposal in prin­will be installed at the Intersec­ciple, they questioned the need tion of "rape road" and route .31 for change. Negative response within the next two weeks to warn was received from the LeMans motorists of the student cross­and Regina Hall Boards. ing. Also, a stop light will be in­

The most frequent rebuttals to stalled at the intersection of the proposal were that added Douglas Road and route .31 by 
Dialysis diligence pressure would be put on resi-the end of the year. 
Mark Yates, an 18-year-old Penn State Uni­to provide a "dialysis dormitory" near the versity freshman from North Plainfield, N.J., campus. UntH the dorm can install such a

74-year-old man held 

studies while undergoing his thrice-weekly unit, the students must go to a hospital to dialysis treatments. Yates is one of the new receive treatment. student-patients in a one-year-old program

for shooting paperboy 
Associated Press home, and that neighborhood 

Reagan offers to invoke limited sanctions 
youths had fired shots into his INDIANAPOLIS -A 74-year-old home Aug. 26. He said he had man was formally charged with spent Wednesday night keeping 


to prevent South African policy reversal 
murder yesterday in the shooting a vigil in his darkened living 

Associated Press South Africa's racial policies and African weapons and banninglast week of his newspaper car­room. 
urged the House and Senate to the importation of the South
rier. Toombs was arrested later in WASHINGTON President join with him in a united foreign African gold coin, the Kruger­Authorities said Nokomis the day Thursday, but formal Reagan, seeking to avert a major policy. He offered to impose rand.

Toombs, who is being held with­charges were delayed after aut:' congressional reversal of his these new sanctions and Reagan said also that his ex­out bond in the Marion County horities received a 72-hour con­South Africa policy, offered Mon­measures by executive order: ecutive order clearly wouldJail, has admitted firing the shot­tinuance on Friday. 

gun blast early Thursday mor­to probable day to invoke new but limited -A ban on new U.S. invest­amount to a complete and com­
According the sanctions against the white­ments other than those in black­prehensive statement of U.S.

ning that killed Scott Lawson, 16. cause affidavit accompanying 

minority government in Pretoria. owed firms. policy toward South Africa "withthe charge, Indianapolis Police -A ban on the import of South the intent of pre-empting incon­Lawson was shot once in the Detective Norman Matthews said Reagan's decision came African iron or steel. sistent state and local laws"chest about 4:45a.m. as he was that when officers arrived at the 
placing a of In­shortly before the House was to -A ban on U.S. bank accounts aimed in one way
copy The scene Toombs allegedly said, "Is or another 
vote on whether to override his for the South African govern­against the apartheid system.
dianapolis Star inside a he dead? Is he dead? I hope I 

veto of legislation containing ment or its agencies.
breezeway door at Toombs' killed him." 

home. tough new sanctions aimed at -$25 million in aid to disadvan­Chris Mathews, a spokesman pressuring President P.W. taged South Africans. for O'Neill, said, however, "Our
Toombs is scheduled to ap­When Toombs was advised he 

Botha's government to aba'ndon -Review of ways to reduce U.S. preliminary analysis indicatespear in Marion Superior Court had shot his paperboy, Matthews 
today. said, he showed "remorse and its policy of apartheid. dependence on strategic this (Reagan's proposal) is not The Democratic-controlled minerals from southern Africa. even too little, too late; it's a step 
Toombs told police he had had regret for having shot an inno­

problems with vandalism at his cent young man." House originally approved the The new steps would expand backwards. This is the weakest sanctions legislation .308-77, a list of sanctions Reagan issued version." and it seemed virtually last year, but would fall short of impossible that the chamber the harsh measures called for In The original Senate vote for would reverse course Monday · legislation passed by the House the sanctions legislation was 84­and sustain Reagan's veto of last and Senate -measures which 14. week. would carry the United States 
is looking for dedicated students A Reagan defeat in the House close to outright and total divest­In addition to banning U.S. in­would shift the battle to the Sen­ment from South Africa. vestment and bank loans, the
wanting to get involved in college 

ate, where Majority Leader Bob The steps Reagan took last new legislation would terminate
journalism. Applications are now 

Dole, R-Kan., has acknowledged year included banning loans to landing rights in this country for
being accepted for the following 

that finding enough votes to sus­the South African government
positions: 

tain the president's veto has and its agencies, exports ofcom­South African aircraft and proved "very difficult." puters to South African agencies prohibit U.S. imports of South
Day Editor 

In a letter to Dole and House used to enforce apartheid laws; African uranium, coal, steel, tex­Copy Editor Speaker Thomas ("Tip") O'Neill prohibiting most nuclear ex­tiles, military vehicles, ·agricul­,j Jr., D-Mass., Reagan condemned ports, barring imports of South tural products and food. 
Applications are due by Friday. 

was confident "the problem of The charge sheet, in Hebrew l 
Contact Mark Pankowski, Tripp 1 
identity will be solved during the and English, accused Demjanjuk 
1
Baltz or Lynne Strand at 239-5313 




Nazi 
initial stages of the trial." of murder, committing acts with 
or come up to the Observer office 

Sharir said one main purpose the Intent of destroying the 
I on the third floor of the LaFortune continuedfrom page 1 of the trial was to educate young Jewish people, and other 1 
Student Center. Israelis about Adolf Hitler's cam­"crimes against humanity'' in 
..............,........................... Justice Minister Avraham paign of genocide against the 1942 and 194.3. Sharir told Israel army radio he Jews. 

Daniloff 
continuedfrom page 1 

expelling 25 Soviet U.N. diplomats from the United States. The U.S. government al­
leges that some Soviet U.N. employees are engaged in espionage. 
At the United Nations, the usually well-Informed Soviet bloc source said Shultz and Shevardnadze had agreed during a meeting Sunday night that Danlloffand Zakharovwould be exchanged. But the source provided no further details. 
In Moscow, the official Soviet media had not reported Danlloffs release by late yester­day. 




HERE'S WHY. 
There's a new career option for today's quantitative graduates. 
Its not in academia Its not in Corporate America. Its not in the 
Silicon Valley. 
Its on Wall Street. 

Today, Wall Street "quants" are literally shaping the future of 
high.fmance. They're developing a new generation of investment 
products, pioneering new ways to improve profitability, and 
creating new opportunities for investors and issuers. And for their 
quantitative creativity, they're being recognized with qualitative . rewards. With challenge, responsibility and recognition. 
Yet you might be surprised to learn that many ofWall Streets 
most successful "quants" have no prior experience in fmance or 
economics. They come from backgrounds in math, physics, engineering, operations research, computer science, and other quantitative disciplines. 
Ifforging the way into new frontiers sounds exciting to you, Salomon Brothers Inc. has the opportunity you seek A major investment banking and market-making firm, we're Wall Streets leading employer of "quant" graduates. And since our research and technology management departments are the most respected in the industry, you'll be working with some of the top talent in your field. 
Want to learn more about the challenge of working with a Wall Street leader in one of todays most rewarding quantitative careers?Join us at the Salomon Brothers presentation scheduled for your campus. And see how far your future can go. 
Salomon Brothers Inc 
Market Makers and Investment Bankers 
One New York Plaza, New York, New York 10004 Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Dallas, London (affiliate), Los Angeles, San Francisco, Tokyo (affiliate), Zurich 

Accent 
Tuesday, September 30, 1986, -page 5 
HELPING HANDS 

Adopt-a-Transfer 
KERRIE WAGNER He said that since it is easy to Katie Henning, an eager trans­features writer miss out on a great deal of hall fer presently residing off activities such as SYR's, hall campus, joined the program to 
Adjustment to life at Notre 

sports, inter-hall gatherings and meet people on campus. She has Dame is being made easier for 
hall masses, there is a definite no specific activities that appealtransfers. Recently, the student 
need for a boost or connection. to her, and just wants to "get a government re-implemented a 
qeneral awareness of camous 
program called the "Adopt-a­"The program gives transfers 
life." So far, she has felt wel­
Transfer" program. the opportunity to get involved come.
Implemented two years ago, in activities.that otherwise would 
"When people hear that you're
the program's aim is to integrate not be available to them. Being 
a transfer they express an inter­
transfers (who are initially at a new school and being off 
est in you," she said.
housed off campus) into campus campus at the same time can be life. The most popular and hard. Only extremely assertive Matt Sitzer, a junior transfer
sought-after opportunity for the people will pursue certain activ­transfers is to become involved ities. Now more people wi,ll have also residing off campus for the time being, joined the program
in hall life, with the increased opportunities presented directly because "dorm life seems to be
knowledge of on-campus hap­to them." important here (Notre Dame)."
penings that that entails. Most on-campus students take Activities include a transfer 
Sitzer regards the program as
hall life for granted. After class tailgater with both "adopters" 
a "neat idea" to aid transfers in
they can simply walk back to and their transfers, casual trips 
involvement with dorm athletics,
their dorms and relax in a matter to the dining halls in order for 
SYR's and hall life in general.
of 15 minutes. In the case of an transfers to meet people, and 
Being offcampus makes him feel
off-campus student however, joint movie nights that various 
"apart but not alienated."
getting back home in between or dorms hold periodically as social Now Saal is reversing roles; he According to the adopters and after classes is more time­boosts andlor study breaks. In the case of Andy Saal, now has adjusted to campus life and transfers who were interviewed, consuming and thus, to some, There is a minor problem, a senior but formerly a sopho­Is awaiting the opportunity to the program is a step In the right disheartening: _ To most off­though, that certainly does not more transfer, he didfeel meet and adopt a new transfer direction. The only steps left are campus transfers who are experi­lie in the organization or intent alienated by "the way the system through the program. to find more transfers wishing to encing their very first year at of the program. There is an over­was set up." be adopted and to actually have Notre Dame, this depressing ex­abundance of enthusiastic on­"By not knowing anyoneand Similarly, Nan LaFond has ad­the two sides meet each other. perience can create a bleak out­campus "adopters" and a living off campus It was lonely justed to campus life and is When asked about this small look on college life in general. shortage of off-campus transfers and also extremely difficult to get eager to adopt LaFond, a former problem of the "Adopt-a­Thus, the aim of "Adopt-a­interested in being adopted. involved. Without some type of sophomore transfer presently Transfer" program Byrne said, Transfer" is to prevent transfers Ironically, this is the opposite of extra-curricular connection you residing as ajunior in Lewis Hall, "Of course I'm always hoping for from getting the chance to form last year's problem. Out of ap­got left out and missed the fun. said that she can relate to the a better turnout because I'm very a negative outlook from the start. proximately 185 transfers only However, if you could grin and transfers and recognizes that "by optimistic about the program. I 
John Byrne, a former transfer 70 to 80 (about 40%) have ex­bear it you could make it." And the time a transfer Is finally have the best wishes of Notre 1 and now a content senior in pressed interest this year. he did. moved on campus, friends and Dame's transfers at heart, 1 Cavanaugh Hall, is in charge of According to Byrne, Unfortunately, "Adopt-a­cliques are already established." though, and in that respect the
this is a the program, along with Noreen reasonable turnout. Although ac­Transfer" was not as developed She said she would be devoted program has a nice turnout." ·1 O'Connor, also a former transfer tual contact between the adop­when Saal was a sophomore as to making her adopted transfer Byrne also wanted any trans­1 
'1
and now a senior residing in fers who have not expressed In­
ters and transfers has not yet it is now, but he would have feel more a part of the group. "I Turtle Creek Apartments. been made, the optimism and joined he program in order to would encourage her to go to terest in the program yet to know 
Byrne detailed the basic pur­anticipation is neverthless pres­"become more aware of extra­dances, SYR's and other hall that they are still welcome to poses and aims of the program. ent. curricular opportunities." functions." join. 
j 
I

Upward Bound 
j 
1 
1 
KRISTEN DAVEY 
professors and high school working either as a team with a 1 j
features writer 
teachers. For example, Malcolm group of high school students or 
Here in the land of opportu­Coates, a junior at LaSalle High on an individual basis in nity, hard work and ambition are Schoql, took Al­whatever areas the high school said to be the only requirements gebrafl'rigonometry, Chern is try, students need help. 1 for success. However, in today's Writing, Careers, Art, Spanish, Kathy Huston, a senior at Saint 1 competitive times an added ad­and Computers while on campus Mary's, worked in the program 1 vantage is often needed. this past summer. last spring as a requirement for 1 
Each year the Upward Bound an education course taught by 1 
,1
The purpose of the summer for 80 teenagers in the South session is to give the students, volved in the summer session. .,Bend/Elkhart area and thousands "a jump on their high school Huston says that although a few ., more like them nationwide. Up­courses in ;a university setting," of the students would arrive un­.,says Karilee Watson. The session "the were 
program provides the extra edge Karilee Watson. She was also in­
-• v ' . .., ward Bound is a federally funded prepared, majority '"'l program designed to assist really enthusiastic." According to '"'l
also prepares the students for 
entrance
promising students in their high into college with SAT Huston, tutoring sessions were ~ math and verbal preparation ..,
school work and prepare them spent working on current 
for college. courses, two career courses, and homework and reviewing recent .... 
.,
3 study skills course required. As tests.
Karilee Watson. Assistant Pro­fessor at Saint Mary's and Aca­a head start on college, a bridge Malcolm Coates feels that the 1 
demic Coordinator for the Up­program of six hours of college tutoring is particularly beneficial credit courses (three hours of
ward Bound program at Notre for it "helps me get my composition and literature and
Dame, says that recruits are "stu­homework done" and adds that 
dents from the high school pop­three hours of finite math) is also the college students seem to be 
ulation who have the academic offered to Upward Bound stu­quite adept at explaining the Al­dents.
potential to attend college and gebrafl'rigonometry problems 
complete four years." with which he most often seeks The summer s~ssion is only
In order to be eligible for the help.
the beginning of the Upward
program, students must be in Both the high school students Bound program. During the
the ninth or tenth grade, meet themselves and the college stu­school year students meet here
certain socio-economic dents who volunteer appear to 
~ guidelines, and be the first gen­on catnpus several times a week benefit from the tutoring ses­eration in their lamily to att~::nd for tutoring from Notre Dame sions. It seems fitting that those college. and Saint Mary's students. From who have already been given the 
September to November tutoring chance for a college education 
Durmg each of the three years sessions are held only once a should help those who want to a student spends in the program, week due to busy extra-curricular be given the same opportunity. he or she participates in a six activities, while the spring tutor­The Upward Bound program pro­week session on campus every ing sessions are held twice a vides a unique opportunity for summer. Students live in Holy week. some very deserving students to Cross Hall and take a variety of Sessions consist of Notre be afforded better chances for
and experience with Upward Bound student Kerry Madden. 
courses taught by both college Dame and Saint Mary's students success. 



"ieVV~_O_i_n__t____________Tue~sday_.sep~tem-ber3_o.I-986.--pag~e6 
Question of the week: ND/SMC health care 
Do you feel Notre Dame and Saint Mary's infir­maries are adequate to serve students' needs? What are their strengths and weaknesses? 
Viewpoint will be focusing on one timely must list name, major, hall and year. This week's infirmary question responses campus, national or international issue each Viewpoint will print as many legitimate must be received by 5 PM on Friday. Tuesday in the "Question of th~ week" sec­
responses as space allows each Tuesday. In 

tion. We would like you to address these 
the event that all submissions cannot be The Viewpoint Department will also take issues. printed, those appearing in Viewpoint will be suggestions for future "Questions of the Responses must not exceed 100 words and representative ofall responses. week." 



Liberals are wrong in opposing drug testing 
Judging strictly from their self-proclaimed, noble-sounding ideology, it 
would seem that the implemen tation of drug tests for federal employees would be a policy even more ideal for liberals than it would be for conservatives. And yet ironically this is not the case. 
Chris Julka 
in plain english 

As one would hear it from them, liberals -by this I mean, ofcourse, modern liberals of the Democratic Party, to be distin­guished from the classical liberals who compose the Republican Party -are the leading advocates of government actively participating in the lives of its citizens to make this society a better one. Isn't it the liberals who support desegregation measures such as busing, who have made it illegal not to hire a fixed quota of people belonging to certain government-defined minority groups?
r Isn't It the liberals who have imposed
r-
strict regulations on industries so as to protect the environment, who advocate large grants in student aid, and who favor the intervention of the government into households to rescue children from abusive parents? 
It would seem from all this that liberals are the champions of values, and believe E that they should take precedence over the system. People have rights, but not if these rights mean that other people must starve, that certain members of 
r
, minorities must be discriminated against, , or that our air must be unbreathable and our water undrinkable. In fact, the im­
r 
position of preconceived values on Amer­
r 
ican society goes even further than this. 
r ~ 
For the government has the right to see r to it or at least what those in power deem r to be appropriate values. Thus sex edu­
r 
cation should remain as a necessary part 
r 
of a youngster's curriculum In public 
r 
schools, liberals maintain, so as to shape one's mind and attitudes toward sex in
,.. 
r 
,... the correct way -the need to promote ,.. these sexual attitudes being considered more important tl)at the need for govern­
r 
ment to strictly adhere to a rigidly con­r stitutional principle of non-interference. ~ And yet. mystifyingly, all ofthese cham­
r 
r 
~ 
r 
r r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r· 
l__ 
pions of public values suddenly take everything back when it comes to the im­plementation of drug tests. 
This is not an argument against the values which liberals have already managed to impose upon the American public. In fact, there is nothing nobler than helping the poor, saving children from abusive parents, prohibiting dis­criminatory hiring practices, providing disadvantaged students with aid and protecting our environment. My only question is, Why stop here? If the Dem­ocratic Party is the patron of affirmative government, assertively imposing preconceived values upon the public, why does it suddenly lose heart when it comes to eradicating the drug epidemic? 
Suddenly modern liberals on this issue give in to an inexplicable fatalism. To in­stitute the drug tests, they say, would con­situte a government Intrusion. It would infringe on the people's personal liberties, and, in the words of one of The Observer's letter-writing intelligentsia, be a "clear violation of privacy." 
Why suddenly all ofthis paralyzing con­cern? Did modern liberals ever make a fuss when the new government intruded into the market with the New Deal and The Great Society? Did orthodox Democrats ever get such pangs of con­science when they infringed on the liberties of employers to hire whomever they wanted, or on the liberties of stu­dents to attend whatever school they wanted? Even the violation of privacy did not present an obstacle to the majority of liberal reformers. What could be a greater violation of privacy than the in­come tax. which requires that one divulge to the government one's very sources of livelihood, often to the minutest most In­timate detail? Does a simple urine test even compare to the encroachment upon our privacy of this magnitude, an encroachment which we not only accept but take for granted as neccessary? 
The simple paradox could be summed up this way: we try to eradicate illiteracy by compelling every citizen to go to school for at least 12 years, but we won't even require a simple urinalysis to assist in the eradication of the drug epidemic. 
Often one hears, of course, that the problem of drug abuse differs from that of, say, illiteracy, because the former case concerns people who are indulging in a private habit which does not hurt anybody else in society, or if anybody, only those who are abusing the drugs themselves. 

So, since It is only their physical and psy­chological well-being which is in ques­tion, shouldn't these people be allowed to decide for themselves what they want to do with their own lives? 
Unfortunately, although one could pos­sibly apply such an argument to a per­son's desires not to go to school and remain Illiterate, one cannot validly do so to the current drug epidemic. Law en­forcers have identified the need to sup­port expensive drug habits as the leading cause of urban muggings, thefts and even killings. The government also es­timates that the lo">s to the country re­sulting from absenteeism, slackened pro­ductivity and so on amounts to $.3.3 billion. If the government can demand that the leaders of industries divulge in­formation with regard to the operation of their plants so as to protect the environ­ment, why can't it demand that people submit to drug tests to protect the streets of Los Angeles and New York, the eco­nomy at large and the physical and psy­chological health of Americans in gen­eral? 
To repeat, no criticism is being levelled at thejustification for our income tax sys­tell), our educational programs, our wel­fare benefits, our afflrmativ<:: action policies or our industrial regulatory agencies. Quite the opposite is the. c:'lse, in fact. For without some of these pro­grams, our country would be unable to survive very long, and without others our country would be a very unpleasant place to live in indeed. My only question is, why not extend this fine tradition of an asser­tive value-affirming-government. which has already been put into service to com­bat the inequitable distribution of wealth, racial prejuidice, illiteracy, child abuse, the sale of shoddy goods and the pollu­tion of our environment to the problem of the drug epiemic? If a modern liberal were truly faithful to his tradition, in fact, he would favor not only mandatory tests for federal employees, but for company employees and school children as well. 
But if a person holding to liberalism were· not to assert this, then one could only conclude one thing: it is not that he really fears government intrusion into our privacy or Individual liberties, for clearly such a fear has never stopped liberal reformers in the past nor does it today; rather, it could only be the case that deep down inside he could care less that, for instance, over one out of four young adults re~=tularly smoke marijuana and that 6.8% currently use cocaine. 
Chris Julka is a junior in the College of Arts and Letters. 


Quote of the day 
"If you think education is expen­sive--try ignorance." 
DerekBok President, Harvard University 
--------------------------------------~------------------------------------------------------__, 
\TieVV~-()~i_ll_t~----------------------------------------------------------T-ue_s~d~ay~,~S~e~pt~e~m~b~er~3~0~,~1~9~8~6,~-~p~a~g~e~7 



Graduate finds that Peace Corps is diverse 
A year ago at this time, I was beginning  of my life.  I have spent days studying  
my Senior year at Notre Dame. I had some  Arabic and being evaluated as I teach En­ 
ideas about what I wanted  to do after  glish  to Moroccan students in  a  Peace  
graduation, but mostofmy concentration  Corps summer school program. The work  
was spent working on a schedule that left  has been difficult and many times  ex­ 
enough free time for trips to my room­ hausting,  but I  do  love  the  teaching.  
mate's lake cottage in Michigan. I spent  Along  more  "traditional"  Peace  Corp  
some time working on grad school appli­ lines, I've had the opportunity to travel  
cations, although my heart wasn't in it;  in Morocco,  share buses with chickens  
and I signed up with career and Place­ and taxis with sheep.  It's been a while  
ment, hoping that one day, I too, might  since I've taken a good, hot shower, too.  
leave the library with an offer from a Big  In a week, I'll be leaving Rabat to begin  
8 Accounting firm. The problem was that  my teaching at a small school in Missour  
I was an American Studies and French  in  the  center  of the country.  It's part  
major, and each time I checked the list  mountainous, part desert, hot in the sum­ 
of companies coming,  no  one  wanted  mer,  cold  in  the  winter.  The  people  
anyone with my background. I screamed  seemed friendly when I visited, and all  
at them: "But, I've read Jack Kerouac. I  told, I'm anxious to begin working there. Regular Guys report  
know what the Coke bottle means to the  Throughout this whole process, there  
American people." Few people were im­ have been questions present: Why Peace  
pressed.  Corps? Why two years? Should I be in  
Morocco?  Should  Peace  Corps  be  in  
Morocco?  Some  of these  things  have on this year's progress 
been resolved, some of them haven't yet.  
Tom O'Brien  But, I've found that Peace Corps is like that: complex and challenging, both  Citizens, return to your homes. There is no cause for alarm · the Regular Guys  Student Senate, they'll be involved in is­sues that actually affect students this  
physically  and  emotionally.  I've  been  are in control. Student Government has  year. What a concept ...  
. guest column One afternoon, however, I noticed that the Peace Corps was visiting Notre Dame. Even better was that they were interested in someone with a background in langu­ages. In all honesty, I had been interested in doing some sort of international work. I'd just finished a Rotary Scholarship ap­plication which would send me to the Ivory Coast for a year of study. Interview­ comfortable with my decision, while some there haven't . That's a risk we all took. I've also been happy working with so many extremely intelligent and expe­rienced people. I expect that to continue. Moroccans are not short on energy and expertise. So far, I've found that they and Americans make a good combination. I didn't come to Morocco to find myself. I never thought I was really lost. I have found out much about myself though, and about this country and the Arab  offically kicked into gear, and we are proceeding in our usual "take no prisoners" fashion. Although renovation of LaFortune is not slated for completion until the Fall of 1997, our new offices are open and we have phones now. Sooooo stop by and see us (2nd floor, LaFortune Student Center) or at least lean forward on the old couch and give us a call. We have something like three different phone numbers, but the only one we can ever remember is 239-SNOT.  Oh, by the way, pretty soon you'll start seeing advertising for a gala Multi­Cultural Fall Festival: Around the World in Seven Days. We've joined forces with about five other student organizations on campus to plan a week that is chock full of events. There will be lectures by a Rus­sian and an American Indian, fireside chats with professors who have travelled the world, a crazy display at the Snite Museum, and a host of other activities.  
ing with the Peace Corps didn't seem to  world. I'm sure my mother still asks from  rhe week culminates with the "Taste of  
be a bad idea. I signed up and got a slot. I did little reading up on Peace Corps before the interview, but I felt differently after speaking with a representative from the Chicago office. Up until that interview, I pictured Peace  time to time: "What's a nice Catholic boy like you 9oing in a Muslim country like this?" The answer is teaching, learning, and gaining experience for the future. That is all a part of my Peace Corps ex­perience so far as well.  Mike Switek and Don Montanaro student body brief  Nations" at Stepan Center; a giant party with food from around the world, perfor­mance by an African Dancing Troupe, a survey of American music through the ages, dance contests, and even DOOR PRIZES ...Here is an idea ...attend one  
Corps as a group of people living in grass huts and teaching Kum Ba Yah to the natives (actually it's host country nation­als in PC lingo). Further study, however, showed that the Peace Corps is more than that, and after being a part of the organi­zation for a few months, I find that I dis­cover more about the group each day._ Peace Corps people are not easily stereotyped. We've got everyone from Ewell Gibbons to F. Lee Bailey here. After a long and often frustrating ap-. plication process, I finally accepted an invitation to teach English in Morocco for two years. As I write this, I'm finishing my training in this country's capital, Rabat. I left my home in upstate New York just a few weeks after graduation, went to Philadelphia for a week of orientation, and then flew to Morocco.  It's difficult to explain everything I see and feel here. The genuine sadness I felt saying goodbye to my summer school students this past week made me feel that I am doing something good here. It was a high and a low at the same time. Peace Corps is not right for everyone, but neither is an offlce on Wall Street. My advice to anyone who cares is to do what feels right for you, not for someone else. Ifsomething like Peace Corps is that right thing, then please don't hesitate to write and find out more. I myself would love to answer letters between Kum Ba Yah verses. Good luck. Tell Bruno and Rocco I say hi. The pizza here isn't very good. Take care.  What have we been up to? Good ques­tion . . . Well, you may have noticed that the Student Senate has been in the paper lately. In the past few years the Senate has been accused of being everything from worthless to ugly. The first thing we did to rectify that situation was the banishing of Robert's Rules of Order. What are they? That's what we asked right before we axed them. Robert's Rules are some kind of crazy parliamentary procedures that nobody understands. Now, instead of arguing about rules, the Student Senate can get some stuff done. There was some confusion last week over this parietals resolution passed by the Senate. The passing of such a resolution is only one step in the intricate process  of these events with one of your profes­sors. We don't know about you guys, but we figure it's about time we get to know these people. What else have we been up to? Too many things to mention here, but there is one other thing we feel pretty psyched about: Kevin Cullen, one of our Food Ad­visory Commissioners, has been working to rectify the sludge crisis behind North Dining Hall. You'll thank us later. Oh yeah; if you happen to be one of the boatload of freshmen that signed up at our booth on Activities night, remain calm ·we'll be in touch soon. Your futures are bright, you'd better wear shades. Mike Switek is the student body president  
The last few months have been some  Tom O'Brien is a Professor of English  of  re-wording  THE  BOOK  (DuLac,  of  ofNotre Dame and Don Montanaro is vice­ 
of the most intense, but enjoyable, ones  in Missour, Morocco.  course). Anyway, keep an eye on the zany  president.  
P.O.BoxQ  

spoke of SYR's and the abuse of alcohol Thrown food was not everywhere, vomit Looking from my side of the fence, I seeAlcohol policy is not was not in any bathrooms that I entered, '
which takes place at them. the dances as actually quite positive in Granted some abuse of alcohol take and I know from first hand experience their effects: they make men and women
contradicted by SYRs 
place at SYRs. But to claim that there are that everyone drinking was not acting like learn to socialize while drinking respon­only two groups of people at SYRs, those class A jerks. sibly. Dear Editor: that abuse alcohol and those who do not Another major problem with Finally, Sarabando points out a 
As President of Fisher Hall I feel com­drink. is quite naive. I have been to Sarabando's article is that he bases his supposed contradiction In the alcohol pelled to answer a recent letter. Lunch numerous Fisher SYRs (and planned a negative pessimistic view--that alcoholic policy. He claims that "the University con­usually is also my favorite meal of the couple myself) and can say first hand that parties do nothing but promote alcohol dones drunkeness and public intoxication day. I get together with my roommates there are not "drunk boys and girls at abuse, on one person's opinion. I, by allowing all hall parties (SYRs)." This and friends to talk of dorm life, social every corner." In fact, often there are ma­however, feel that having served as Pres­Is true, however, only ifone takes a totally activities and upcoming plans for the ture men and women enjoying the com­ident of the dorm since April, I have rea­unrealistic, negative and naive view of weekend. Recently, however, my lunch pany ofeach other while drinking respon­sonably good grasp of the hall's feelings these gatherings. was ruined because of a rather biased, sibly. After our SYR this past weekend I and actions, as well as those of the Bob Daley one-sided and totally negative article. It went around to do some investiqatinQ. average student here at Notre Dame. Fisher Hall President 
General Board


Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 ­Editor-in-Chief.. ................. Joe Murphy Business Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann Managing Editor . ............... Kevin Becker Controller . ................. Alex VonderHaar Viewpoint Editor . ............... Scott Bearby Production Manager . ............ Chris Bowler The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer­Sports Editor . ............... Dennis Corrigan Photography Manager .......... James Carroll sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the Accent Editor . .................. Mary Jacoby Advertising Manager . ........ Anne M. Culligan policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately Saint Mary's Editor . ........... Margie Kersten Systems Manager ............. Shawn Sexton and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of News Editor ..................... Tripp Baltz Graphic Arts Manger .......... Mark Weimholt the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Editor . ................ Mark Pankowski OCN Manager . ............. Francis X. Malone 
their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1966 

The Observer Tuesday, September .30, 1986, -page 8 



Sports Briefs 
The ND Field Hockey team will take on Albion College today at 3:30p.m. on Cartier Field. -The Observer 
• 
On WVFI-AM 64 tonight at 10 p.m., "Speaking of Sports" will feature special guest Dr. Larry Hogan, professor of sports history at Notre Dame, in this week's edition. Hosts Rudy Brandl and Rick Rietbrock will field comments and questions at 239-6400. Topics include collegiate academic elligibility and baseball, past and present. -The Observer 
t 
t 
t The Notre Dame Judo Club participated in the annual Mic­hiana Regional Judo Tournament on Sunday. In the Men's white-green 172 pounds-and-under division, John Fox took first and Rob Detzner finished third. Paul Jackson took third in the IYien's white-green 156 pounds-and-under division, and Kathy Brienza placed third in the Women's 123 pounds-and under division. -The Observer 
The Squash Club will hold its first organizational meeting tomorrow at 7 p.m. In LaFortune' little theatre. Anyone inter­ested is welcome to attend. For more details call William Mapother at 283-3669. -The Observer. 
•· 




Classifieds 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
Wordproceaalng reeumee, etc. Typeset quality. 287-9024. 
TYPING BY SALLY 272-7573 
SAME-DAY TYPING NO Pick-up Quick-Type, Inc. 277-8998 
TYPINGWORDPROCESSING CALL DOLORES 277-8131. 


LOST/FOUND 
LOST FRESH WATER PEARL BRACELET NEAR FISHER, MOR­RISEY OR LEWIS ON SATURDAY PLEASE CALL JENNIFER AT 3820. REWARD. 
LOST WATCH, VERY SENTIMENTAL GOLD (COLOR) CARAVELLE BY BULIVA, ENGRAVING ON BACK: To Steve, love mom and ded, 121.15113 PLEASE CALL STEVE AT 4859 WITH INFORMATION OR CONTACT AT 127 PANGBORN... REWARD OFFERED 
111111 
HELP! I LOST MY FAVORITE NO SWEATSHIRT IN NIEULAND SCIENCE HALL TUESDAY. IT'S GREY, SIZE SMALL, AND HAS SMALL HOLES ALL OVER THE FRONT. PLEASE CALL BARB AT 1349 IF FOUND. I CANT'T FACE THE PURDUE GAME WITHOUT IT. REWARDIIIII 
SSSREWARDSSS Lo.t Pentax K1000 camera In Hurley, Tunday, Sept. 23. PIHae call Jenny at 288-2773. SSSREWARDSSS 
LOST: One ADVERTISING STRATE­LOST: ONE GOLD CHAIN WITH THREE CHARMS(A HALF-HEART,A CROSS, AND "PRECIOUS"). IT IS OF GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. I WOULD APPRECIATE ANY HELP-I HAVE TO FIND ITIII PLEASE CON­TACT LISA AT 2882, 218 LYONS. THANK YOU. 

LOST: Blue Patagonia pull-over jackal, Hurley Hall, Sunday 9121 Con­tained Important kaye In pouch pocket. Ple11a return kayo atlaaat Call John at 1888 lor Information leading to the arraat of thla jacket 
LOST: NO football tlckata, thla laat Saturday, before Purdue game. Loll near Sr. Bar area, on Graan Field. It found, call Kala, £3701, 238 Lawla. 

FOR RENT 
GARAGE FOR RENT 30$ A MONTH .5 MILE FROM NO ACCROSS FROM CAMPUS VIEW CALL MATT AT 2723491 

WANTED 
SKI ALL WINTER! Crystal Mountain Ia now hiring chlldNn'l akl lnatructora lo<-the--wlntar H811011..__.&11ary _Rlu~ room & board. Contact Martha Mandel or Dave Hofacker at (818)378-21111. 
Female Roommate wanted, SenlooGrad. Share 2 Bdnn turn apt gao htd. $345. 272-8594 alter 7 
part time waltreuaa and bertendera nHded It amltty'a co.,.y laland tap, 125 no. michigan, aouth bend. Muat be 21. 
EARN UP TO $8 AN HOUR AI a delivery driver you mult have your own car. Houre are llexable. PIZZA HUT DELIVERY Apply 11138 112 DIXIE WAY NORTH.In Roaeland around II,. corner on Murrey St. 

Dallas Quarterback Danny White threw for boys' .31-7 victory over the St. Louis Car­
22.3 yards and three touchdowns in the Cow-dinals last night. Details appear on page 9. 
TV RENTALS LOW SEMESTER RATES. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, FORMERLY COLOR CITY 272-5959. 
FOR SALE One GE Llght'n'Eaay Steam and Dry Iron with a full-size, collabelblelronlng board, pad, and cover. -$25. Call Kelly Havana at 239-5637 mornlnga and af­ternoons. 
Ia It True You Can Buy Jaape lor $44 through the U.S. government? Gat the facta today! Call 1-312-742-1142 Ex­1.7318. 
EXCELLENT QUALITY & GREAT DESIGN : "NOTRE DAME BEACH CLUB" T-SHIRTS ARE ON SALE NOW FOR ONLY $8.00. CALL GREG FOR INFORMATION AT 277-3932. 
FOR THOSE BEACH CLUB T-SHIRTS, YOU MIGHT ALSO TRY TO CALL GREG AT 272-3932. 
CAR FOR SALE '80 DODGE OMNI 024 2 door,excellent condltlon,greet In anow and cold! 277-3882 
1978 Toyate Corolla Sport Coupe. Runa great, good condition, only 71000 mi., 2 dr.,4ap., aaklng $1095. Cell 287-9061. 
MACINTOSH 128k with carrying case, printer, loade of eottware aeklng $1150 Call Tom at 4307 attar 8pm 

[ TICKETS 

SS I NEED 1-8 AIR FORCE GA'S SS DAN 3273 
I NEED 2 or 3 PURDUE tlcketa dnperatelyl Call Mike at 283-1855. 
NEED 2GA PITT TICKETS CALL 312­884-8328 COLLECT 
NHded: 2 GAl lor Air Force. Call x2134. 
HELP! I NEED 2 OR 4 GA'S FOR ALL HOME GAMES. WILL PAY CASH! CALL TOM AT 1774. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
!KEEP THE TRADITION ALIVE NEED 6 AIR FORCE GA'S CALL STEVE £1197 
PENN STATE TICKETS NEEDED CALL 3520 
I NEED 2 GA'S FOR PARENTS FOR PITT GAME. KEEP ME FROM BREAK­ING THEIR HEARTS. CALL PETE AFTER 8. 288-2348. 
NEED 2 GA'S TO NO-ALABAMA GAME. CALL 1-404-481-4514 AND ASK FOR JOE. 
PENN STATE TICKETS NEEDED CALL 3520 
NEED 6 GAo lor AIR FORCE, OCT 18. 239-5873 
IN A PANICII Family coming In from Jaraay and Ohio lor PITT GAME-NEED SIX TIX-GAoSTUDI Staph 272-5417 
NEED 2 PENN STATE GA'S BAD. FRED 289-9225. 
NEED 2 GA'a lor SMU call Pam 283­3503 
$$SNEED 4 AIRFORCE GA'S SSS WILL PAY$$$ CALL NANCY 3829 
NEED TWO GA'S FOR PITT. CALL TOM 3130 
WANTED: 4 PITT TICKETS BADLY NEEDED. CALL DAVE AT 3810 
YES, I NEED TWO PITT TIX. STUD OR GA'S. CALL STEVE AT 277..()973. IT'S SO IMPORTANTTHAT SS IS NO PROB­LEM. 
HELP! P.W. Partner(my boll) nHd1 4 GA & 2 IIUdent tlckall lor Pitt Oct. 11. I love my )ob & my lllell Call Joanne (718)837-9178 
NEED 10 STUDENT PITT TIXI CALL 284-5207. 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA'S CALL TOM at 4307 alter 8pm 
D ........SENIORs..•••••• c Thureday, Oct. 2 CSC PATIO POST-GRAD OPPORTUNITIES DAY! 
NOTRE DAME ACCOUNTING ASSO­CIATION Lilt Chancel Anyone who mlaaed the organization maatlng and Ia atilt lntar­eetad In Joining, call Mike at 1788. 
DO YOU SPEAK DARCOMIAN? II 10, the bitter FORCECOM 888kl your help In avenging the brutal daatha· of hla combat comradaa -moll of which, In the recently held "Darcomlan Anuat Claaalc" arena bloodbowl, were ruth­leaaly baated and barbequed by the Infamous trlkeater, DARCOM. 
CLASS OF '87 BEACON BOWL tomorrow nlghtll Be there II CLASS OF '87 BEACON BOWL tomorrow night!I Be therall CLASS OF '87 
PROGRESSIVE MUSIC CLUB MOVIE NIGHT TONIGHT 7:30 PM GRACE HALL PARTY ROOM ABSOLUTELY FREEII 
DOCTOR ED ETERNAL GRATITUDE FOR YOUR STAT CONCERN AND TEATMENT FRI NITE ESPECIALLY SINCE YOU'R'N'T WELL YOURSELF HUGS AND LOVE J12 
"MY NAME IS BEER CAN."-YVONNE DUNCAN SEPTEMBER 28,1988. 
MIKE "LITTLE BONE" McCAR­THEEEEE....IS IN SEARCH OF A SEX CRAZED NOTRE DAME OR SAINT MARY1 OR TOWNY WOMAN(OR WO­MEN). HE IS CURRENTLY SUFFERING FROM THE D.S.B.'S ; AS ARE THE REST OF THE UNMARRIED STU­DENTS..... 
Thea majore and other Interested etu­dente: Do not mill "Selecting Your Graduate School lor Advanced Studlea In Theology"...a seminar con­ducted by membere of the theology faculty, tomorrow, Oct. 1 at 7:00 PM, 341 O'Shaughna11y. 
Emmet Otter, Yea lene, Rob Paradise Ia 19 today! Da da da... CAPTAIN PARADISEII (or 11 It TARADISE???) Remember Fonlcaln the wooda, party­Ing on the leland, emaehlng cane, "I ecoll at you!" Movie tltle:"RANGER ROB IN PARADISE" EAT THE WORM,ROBIII EAT THE WORMIII 

ATTENTION FORMER EDITOR5-IN­CHIEF & OBSERVER STAFFERS: Write ua and give ua your addre11 and let ua know what you're doing. 
OFF-CAMPUS SENIORSIIIII OFF­CAMPUS SENIORSIIIII Into. on all Senior Cla11 actlvltlea, Dogbooke, Senior Gold Carda, and all upcoming evanta can now be picked up at the Senior Cla11 Office, 2nd floor Lafor­tune, northeaat wing 
CLASS OF 1987 CLASS OF 1987 Senior Night at Bncon Bowllll Wed., 1 Oct. CLASS OF 1987 
SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS Dogbooka will be aold to atudenta who WERE OVERSEAS LAST YEAR at the Senior Claaa Office on Wed. and Thura., Oct. 1&2 from 6-8p.m. Senior Gold Carda and Windy City Waakend booklets and Info. can be picked up too. Coma to the 2nd floor Lafortune, northeaat wing. SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS 
Sheahan on let win: "We blew chunka In the !trot quarter." 
SAW:Beut.blonde girl AT:McCand.SYR&Hagar WEARING:blue eklrt -hila blouee. I want to '"" you. Maat me 11 the SMC library Thure. at 8. We xchanged look• last at McCand alter you chenged. 
TO "DUDES" IN 335, THX FOR TAIL­GATER! ABOUT TIME FOR ANOTHER HAPPY HOUR? WE'RE BORED AND MISS J. BUFFETT. 308, 307. 
T.N.D.C. MEMBERS. MANDATORY MEETING TUES. NITE AT UNCLE'S. MEET IN LEMANS LOBBY AT 11 P.M. 
WANTED: OUT! TAKE: ME TO: MILWAUKEE, OCT. 3 FOR: S CALL: TRICIA 2114-4040 

DEB, HANG IN THERE! THE MEM­BERS OF THE FEARSOME FOUR­
SOME ARE BEHIND YOU. P.S. LOCK THE DOOR, SR. RUTH IS COMING. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, CATHY BURKE. 
FALL FEST IS COMING GET READY TO KICK OFF THE BEST FALL YET. 
MR. PRESIDENT, YOU MAY BE "AL­TERED" BUT I LOVE YOU WITH ALL MY HEART. HAPPY BIRTHDAY. T 

FOR SALE 
USED EQUIPMENT FOR SERIOUS AUDIOPHILES Phase Linear Autocorrelator (noise r• ductlon lor all aourcaa) -$1 00; Audio Pulaa Digital Time Daley (to reproduce concert hall emblence; Incorporate• 1 25 watvchannel amp. You eupply second pair of epeakera.) -$200; Heller 110 Preamp (audiophile quality, 
Help The Air Force won't be the only onea grounded In South Bend II I cannot get lour NO/Air Farce tlckata. I'd really like to go home lor Fall Break In aomathlng other than a Hearse. Plaaae call Rich 283-3482 

[ PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
IS THIS RUSSIA? ... COMING SOON 
-
GIES text In Hurley. II found, pteaae return to Portia Amberg In 145 Lyon• Hall or call 283-2999. 
LOST· Ladlae ellvar & gold DVF drea1 watch In ACC Gym 1 Tuee. 4:15 Aerobic• Claae. II found piHIB call Moira £1268. 
FOUND: One gold charm bracelet ~ twaan Alumni and Dillon. Call Mark at 1712 lor poeltlve 1.0. 
FOUND: A 100% WOOL BASEBALL CAP AT LUNCH IN SOUTH DINING HALL ON FRIDAY SEPT. 26. CALL JOHN 283-1483. 
LOST: GOLD CUBE-LINK BRACELET SOMETIME DURING THE FRIDAY BEFORE THE MICHIGAN GAME. LOADS OF SENTIMENTAL VALUE AT­TACHED! IF FOUND PLEASE CALL ELISA AT 232-5743. REWARDII 

rack-mountable) -$150. Alao have recorda (many digital and 112 •peed maatera) and pre-reccirdad claeelcal caasettea. Call 277-5912 or 239-7133. 
FOR SALE One King 4B aymphony-iluallty trom­bone with F attachment -$700 or beat serloua ollar. o.,. Olda tenor student trombone-$100. Call Kelly Haven• at 238-5637 momlnge and altemoone. 
NEED 10 PITT TIXS OR SECURITY BOY, WILL MY BROTHER KILL ME IF YOU DON'T GIVE ME TIXS CALL JOE 239-7471 OR 283-1931. THANKS 
NEED 8 AIR FORCE GA'S; WILL TAKE ANY PAIRSIII...CALL 287-1785 
nHd two Penn State tlckate. Call 4224 
TOP QUALITY "NOTRE DAME BEACH CLUB" T-SHIRTS ARE ON SALE NOW. PLEASE CALL GREG OR KEN FOR MORE INFORMATION AT 277-3932 OR 272-3932. 
Hungry? Call THE YELLOW SUB­MARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery houra: Monday -Thureday 5pm-12am; Friday 5pm-2am; Saturday 5pm-1am; Sunday 4pm-10pm. 
Hope you have a HAPPY dayll 
Love, Staypuii,TT,QF and Flah 
P.S. New varalty eport... racquetball on one loot -you GodI 
SENIORSIIISENIORSIIISENIORSIII Beacon Bowl thll Wednaaday nlghllll Grab aoma lrlendl and come to Beacon Bowl BE THEREIII BEACON BOWL 

Going to, near, or thru Atlanta? Deaparately naad a ride lor Fall Break! Call Rob at 1546. Will more than ahara expenaea. 
Grace Hall SYR 11'1 coming! Grace Hall SYR 1!'1 coming! 
To my favorite Engllah major-You are my clneme-ecopel HBday, 19 
----------------------------------------------------------------------~-------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Tuesday, September 30, 1986, -page 9 
-
Fisher, Off Campus notch 1st wins; Gibbons leads Green Wave attack 
By CHRIS DALLAVO and a stingy defense as the Sports Writer Green Wave shut-out carrol, 12­
0. The game was scoreless until 
The second week of men's In-the fourth quarter, when Gib­terhall football was one of firsts bans connected with Jake San­for many teams. Fisher Hall, led ford on a 5.3-yard scoring strike. by the passing of quarterback The score remained 6-0 until Greg Gibbons, won its first game Gibbons scrambled for fifteen as an independent hall in over yards and the final tally as time four years, and the Off-campus expired. squad notched a win for the first Tom Prevoznik, the Fisher time since the 1984 season. coach, had nothing but praise for 
Fisher, playing in its first game his team. since splitting with Pangborn, "Our defense was just featured a strong passing attack awesome, and the passing game 
~-·./.r·<./.r·<./.r~<Q>·$-<U>·./.r·~<Q>~~.Q'><Q><Q-•.Q'>~...q;~ 


N.D. RUGBY CLUB: 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:::~=~=~===~:::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:~:~:;:~:=:=:::~:~:~:~:~:;:~:::::::::::::~:~:~:~:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
JOIN A WINNING TRADITION 
* 
No experience necessary 

* 
Looking for new players 

* 
Stepan Field 



Tues., Wed., Thurs., 4:15-6:00 *Call Sean 277-2613 



URBAN P< 
~N ~t.IORIZONS "'z
~B l1CXRS IN T~E INNER CITY OccURS OJER(WRJSTMAS BREAK C) 
1 APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE 
1 


1 m 
FROM OCT. I -10 AT N.D. 

•center .for social concems 
• universitl.l m1nl&ry•hall repre~at1ves AT S.M.C. • offic.e ofjustice education
• c.ar:11PJs m1n1stry

• halIrepresentatives 
OCT.IO 3 pm QUestions? call t~ esc at:it3f-7"l 
was really clicking," said Prevoz­nik. "The offense was a little ner­vous in the beginning, but they got it together. Our fan support was tremendous, and it helped us get going." 
In other games involving Rockne Division teams, Howard defeated St. Ed's, 14-8, while Sarin kept its undefeated record intact by remainin~ idle. 
The Parseghian Division fea­tured Off Campus pushing its record to 1-0-1 with a .3-0 victory over Morrissey. The only scoring in this game was a 24-yard field goal by Dan Thompson in the second quarter. Defense dominated the rest of the way, with Dave Gallivan intercepting a Morrissey pass to preserve the victory. 
Other intra-divisional games saw Grace capitalize on four Dil­lon turnovers to surprise the Big Red, 1.3-0, and Flanner shut out Keenan by the same 1.3-0 score. 
Stanford and Zahm provided the highlights In the Leahy Divi­sion, as both teams ran their records to 2-0. Stanford defeated winless cavanaugh, 1.3·0, while Zahm remained unscored upon by defeating Pangborn, 6·0. Holy Cross picked up Its first victory of the year, handing Alumni a 7-6 defeat, virtually ending Alumni's chances of repeating as Interhall champion. 
The hard-hitting action con­tinues this Sunday on Stepan Field, so tear yourself away from the exciting Indianapolis Colts game on television and watch some real, quality football. 

Cowboys ride past Cardinals, 31-7; Landry notches 256th career win 
Associated Press 

ST. LOUIS Quarterback Danny White passed for 22.3 yards and three touchdowns to lead the Dallas Cowboys to a .31­7 victory over the winless St. Louis Cardinals in a National Football League game last night. 
White, who completed 16 of 29 passes while suffering two inter­ceptions, now has I 0 touchdown passes for the season. 
The Cowboys improved to .3-I with the victory in the nationally televised game. The .31 points enabled Dallas to tie the NFL record for consecutive .30-point games at the start of the season. The 1968 New York Giants and 
The Observer 
Is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Maintenance Manager 
• 
Dulles Include: maintenance of production equipment 

• 
Salaried f'osltlon. 


If interested, stop up at The Observer, 3rd Floor, LaFortune Center to fill out an application. Deadline: Wednesday, Oct.1 
1975 Buffalo Bills share the record. 
St. Louis fell to 0-4 under new head Coach Gene Stallings, a former Cowboys assistant coach. 
The victory was the 256th of Dallas Coach Tom Landry's career, tying him with Miami's Don Shula for second place on the all-time NFL list. George Halas is No. I with .325. 
White, operating a Dallas of­fense with running back Herschel Walker subbing for the injured Tony Dorsett, threw his touch­down passes in the first, third and fourth quarters. 
The Cowboys mounted a 10-0 lead at halftime before Ottls An­derson's 1 0-yard scoring run put St. Louis on the board early In the third quarter. 
Rookie Mike Sherrard gathered In White's arching, .39-yard pass late in the opening period for Dallas' first touchdown and Rafael Septlen booted a .32-yard 
field goal 81/2 minutes later. 
After Anderson's scoring run following the second-half kick­off, the Cowboys went back to work with Gordon Banks return­ing the ensuing kickoff 56 yards to St. Louis' 42. 
Veteran Tony Hill was on the receiving end of White's 1.3-yard scoring pass four plays later. Dal­las then capitalized on two sacks of cards quarterback Neil Lomax. who suffered four inter­ceptions, to drive .31 yards and set up White's eight-yard scoring pass to Walker with 11: 15 remaining. 
Ron Fellows picked off a pass by Lomax with 2:15 remaining and ran .34 yards for the final 
. Dallas touchdown. 

It was the Cowboys' 1.3th vic­tory over their NFC rival In their Jast 16 meetings, avenging a 21· 10 defeat they suffered on the same Busch Stadium turf before a national television audience last Nov. 4. 
Grace. "But this year we battled back to beat Michigan (.3-2) and
Murphy 
now we beat Wrl~ht State." 
continued/rom page 12 
Guignon was named the tourn­seconds later to make the score ament's most valuable defensive .3-1. And with time running out, player, and Morris was named 
Notre Dame appeared to have the most valuable player on of­the victory. fense. 
Kinderline struck again with a This Is the first time Notre goal with only I:18 left in the Dame has opened the schedule game, cutting the lead to .3-2. with a 9-2 record since 1984. But time ran out, and the Irish They hope to continue their fine had their first tournament title. performance this week when 
"In past years we would have they face Bowling Green, ranked lost those type of games," noted fourth in the Great Lakes Region . 
... . 
:I'~' .. ·~: ..' ' ..• ' 

-
The Observer Tuesday, September .30, 1986, -page 10 

-Rowing Club dominates at Head of Des Moines 
During the day, Chris Nye works as an architect in South Bend. During nights and weekends, he and Clete Graham mold together one of the most sucess­ful collegiate rowing programs in the Midwest. 
"We're nowhere near Wisconsin, but we can give any other school a run for their money," said Rowing Club President Joe Brunetti. "We do really well against other schools from the Midwest." 
The rowers proved that In the Head of the Des Moines regatta last weekend In Des Moines, Iowa. Competing with schools like Nebraska, Creighton, Iowa, Kansas, and the University ofChicago, the Irish fared most successfully of all. 
Notre Dame's men's team, coached by Nye, had its A lightweight boat place first with a time of 19:51 over three miles. This time was good enough to win the Wellness Cup, an award presented to the boat with the fastest time on any course. The Irish have won the Cup each of the last three years. 
The men's B lightweight boat placed third in the race. 
Notre Dame's women's team, coached by Graham, placed first and third In the lightweight competition, and the open fours placed second and third. 
The Rowing Club also entered three co-ed boats of four men and four women. The three boats placed first. second, and third in the race. 
In all, the Irish won the Wellness Cup, three gold medals, and two silver medals during the regatta. 
It would seem like quite an accomplishment for most schools. But not for Notre Dame, which has grown accustomed to dominating Des Moines about this time of year. 
"We started going there in 1 984, and every year we've posted the fastest time," said Brunetti. "It was a really good meet; everyone had a good time and rowed really well. We definitely won the most events out of every team there." 
The Irish feel that now they may be even tougher than in recent years. And part of the reason is the coaching of Nye and Graham. 
"We're going to do a lot better because we're really motivated, and the coaching is the best it's been in the last four years," said Brunetti. 

Steve Megargee 
Club Corner 

While the 53-member varsity team is already com­peting in regattas, the novice squad of 70 to 80 members is preparing for Its first race Nov. 5 against Michigan. 
Like the Rowing Club, the Rugby Club was favored going into Its event last weekend. Unlike the rowers, the Rugby Club was not able to live up to its pre­tournament billing. 
The Irish fell to Kentucky, 16-6, in the first round of the Indiana-Kentucky Tournament. then lost to Ball State, 9-4, in their only other appearance of the tournament. 
"We had three guys hurt when we were down there," said Club President Quentin Williams. "A lot of guys didn't make the trip because of injuries." 
"(The opposition) had a new type of zone defense which we weren't ready for, and we didn't pressure the passer enough. 
Despite the team's showing, a trio of Seans put true Irish representation on the all-tournament team. Sean Evers, Sean Higgins, and Sean Manion were all named to the Collegiate Select team. 
Staying at a .500 pace, the Women's Soccer Club split a pair of games last week at Stepan Field. 
Notre Dame started the week with a huge scoring display In a 6-1 victory over Nazareth on Friday. Katy Kennelly scored two goals, and Kathy Birmingham, Kerry Haverkamp, Jane Titterton, and Kate Titterton each added a point for the Irish. 
The offense had a much tougher time of it Sunday against Purdue, as the Boilermakers finally prevailed, 1-0. 
"We played really well against Purdue. The match could have gone either way," said Club Secretary Susan Haling. "We lost to them like 4-1 last year, and they beat St. Mary's, who beat us earlier." 
With a 4-4 record, the Irish next face Wheaton at 4 p.m. tomorrow at Stepan Field. 
Notre Dame's Water Polo Club was also impressed with Its weekend showing. 
In a tournament at Chicago, the Irish beat Mic­higan, 13-6, and Dayton, 16-5, before finally falling to Loyola, 15-13, in the finals. Loyola is ranked seventh in the country among varsity teams. 
"We expected to beat Dayton and Michigan because we had a full team with us, but we expected to get beaten by Loyola badly," said Club Vice-President Steve Coffey. "We played them really tight." 
John Carew, Patrick McManus, and Steve Rodriguez made the all-tournament team for the Irish. 
The Sailing Club, which placed third ofeight teams at a tournament in Iowa on September 20-21, is looking forward to its two biggest regattas of the year. 
Notre Dame will enter the Timmie Angstrom Regatta this weekend, which includes about 20 schools, and will participate in the Hood Regatta the following we~kend. 
~ ~ 
t 
I ~ 
~ 
I I I I I I 

B.P. downs P .E. 20-0 
Irish 
By KATHY BERRY Sports Writer 
The women's lnterhall football league race heated up this week with Breen-Phillips (2-0) routing Pasquerilla East (2-1 ), 20-0. With this win B. P. could end up the only undefeated team if P.E. can hold its 14-6 lead over Farley (2­
0) in their rescheduled contest this Sunday. This would set up an interesting match between 
B. P. and defending champion Farley next week. 
B. P. 's quarterback Amy Treder threw tttree touchdown passes, two to Caroline Burke and one to Carol Cavaliere. 
"B. P. 's defense was super, "said Annie Schrenk. 
P. E.'s tailback. "They stopped everything and when our usually successful plays didn't work. we fell apart." 
In the other Tuesday games Lyons (1-1) downed Lewis (0-3), 12-8. 
In last Thursday's action, Pasquerllla West (2-1) shutout Badin (0-3), 14-0, Walsh (1-2) defeated Lewis, 14-8, and Farley upended Lyons, 30-12. 
" We haven't played to our full potential in our last two games," Smith 6-2, 6-L after an opening round bye. In consolation action, Dasso was defeated by DeDe Dunkle of Tennessee, 6-3, 6-1. Dasso was ill throughout the tournament and was later pulled out of play. 

Sophomore Natalie Illig easily beat Catherine Johnson of Ten­nessee, 6-4, 6-0, only to lose to Tennessee's Shari Brimmer, 6-4, 6-7 (7-5 tiebreaker), 6-3. Assis­tant Coach Steve Simone ob­served that Illig's shots are just missing and that by spring, those tight matches should start to end in her favor. 
Julie Sullivan, Resa Kelly and Patricia O'Byrne also turned in solid efforts for the young Irish squad. Sullivan registered a vic­tory in the consolation draw against Iowa's Colleen Nichols, 3-6, 6-1, 6-L after a setback against Marie Hibbard of Kansas, 6-2, 6-1. O'Byrne lost to Ann Jonston, 6-.3, 6-.3. Kelly's only match was a 6-2, 6-L loss to Rhonda Brown. 
A major concern of the Irish is the inexperience of the doubles teams, four of which were en­tered in the doubles draw. 
' 

said Matt Roy, Lyons Hall coach. "But I think things are really starting to click for us now." 
On Sunday, P. W. defeated Walsh, 22-6, P. E downed Badin, 14-0, and Farley upended Lewis, 23-6. 
"I can't complain, "said Dave Haimes, coach of Farley. "We are having lots of fun and are playing really well. We will be ready for 
B. P." Farley and P. E. play the last 6:42 of their game on Oct. 5 at 7 p.m. 
continuedfrom page 12 
After losing the next two games following the dispute, Lohrer knotted up the score and won the tiebreaker, 7-3. 
Stephanie Tolstedt advanced to second-round singles action with a win over Ann Jonston. 7-6 (7-4 tiebreaker), 6-2, before Northwestern's Diane Donnelly defeated her, 6-L 6-1. Tolstedt lost her consolation round match, 6-4, 6-1. 
Irish co-captain Michelle Dasso lost to East Michigan's Mary 
Notre Da•e Avenae 
Apartaaents NOWIIENTJNG FOBFAIL 
Completely furnished, balconla, laundry, and oft-street parking. On site management & malntenence, all deluxe features 
MoH· in hl-fcin· 10/1/86 and .~l'l 
ONE MONTH FREE RENT 
Office at 121 ND Aft DW647 

CaD A.,.._ 

HAIRCUT 
SPECIAL!! 

Guys and Gals $10 
Monday -Thursday 
with Beth and Leslee 
ND/SMC students only 
703 Uncolnway West, Mishawaka (across &om Hacienda) 
255-6500 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
presents 

Eddie Murphy 
IN 

w!R':'DJ!WI!f !P!!&e.••J 

TONIGHT 
at 8:00 in Washington Hall 
Ambassador Romuald Spasowski 
"The Liberation of One: A Journey to Freedom" 


A lecture by the highest ranking Communist official ever to defect to the West. 
tickets available at the Ticket Stub tor S1 

'JI['t:Jt~~~----------------------------------------------------•Tu•e•s•d•ay•,•S•e•p•te•m•b•e•r•3•0•'•19•8•6•'•·•p•a•g•e•l•l
Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 


announces the opening of their new offices located on the 2nd floor of LaFortune  
All are invited to stop in.  


mt. Y(}(J 7HeM Iitt 7€LL MM. INfl/SfOS/31?. YOU MW
,,Jr .
1H£ Cllr-rmoti 

Beernuts 
UH, ElCUSE ME, WT 00 You HAVE rJMt TO AN51El SOHf SIMPlE QUE5T~j? 
~ 
Campus 
12:00 p.m.: Kellogg Institute Seminar (Brown Bag) "The Labor Movement and Democratization of Uruguay," by Dr. Juan Rial, Kellogg Faculty Fellow. 131 Decio 
3:30 
·5:00p.m.: Computer Minicourse Display Write 3, Part L 108 Computing Center, limit 7. To register, Call Betty at 239-5604. Free and open to the public, 3:30p.m.: Chemical Engineering Graduate Seminar, "One Aspect in the Theory of Mixing of Fluids: Chaotic Mixing in Model Flows," by Prof. J. M. Ottino, Univer­sity of Massachusetts, Amherst. 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 

3:30 
& 5:00p.m.: Field Hockey, ND vs. Albion, and ND vs. Albion Junior Varsity. Cartier Field 


6:00 p.m.: Varsity Volleyball, SMC vs. Tri-State Uni­versity 6:00-6:30p.m.: Signs-ups Wisconsin Club bus for those traveling to Fond du Lac, Osh Kosh and Ap­pleton. Bus leaves Oct. 18, after the Air Force game and returns Sunday, Oct. 26. Bottom of Lafortune Center 7:00, 9:15 & 11:30 p.m.: Movie, "Trading Places", Engineering Auditorium 7:00p.m.: Meeting. Spanish Club, Center for Social Concerns 7:00p.m.: PresentatiorvReception for ALPA and Busi­ness seniors interested in career opportunities with Montgomery Elevator Company, Upper Lounge, Uni­versity Club 7:00p.m.: Meeting. AIESJC, new members welcome, 220 Hayes-Healy 
7:30 p.m.: Varsity Volleyball: St. Joseph College, Rensselaer, vs. Tri-State University, Angela Athletic Facility 
8:00 p.m.: Lecture, Ambassador Romuald Spasowski, "Liberation of One: A Journey to Freedom.", Washington Hall 8:30p.m.: Varsity Volleyball: St. Joseph College vs. SMC, Angela Athletic Facility 
Don't 

spoil nature • • • leave only footprints. 
I /?IPNT MBW UY'f<E 
W !N51/tT 111€ f/M6K/CA, 
1HeM WITH II {(£1/{J!N& 
Y 
I RfiC!flt S/.1!!?. f'fJPt/C ... 1HCY'R£ 1.-!f?Y FOf<G/VIN&. 
j, 
I 

GOOC>. WE'RE CONI>UCTIN6 ASURVEY' TO 5Ef WUAT 
N.D. HEN LOOK FOR. IAJ A WOMAN. 
I 
UHH ... HONESTY1 INTELL­
16f'NCE, FRIENIJLINES~. HAT()RITY. 
I 


Mark Williams 
UEY, H~C.E! /Jf'vE GOT 
A LIV£ ONF HERE! 
._. 
I 

Seconds later, Mrs. Norton was covered with ink. 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Ponderous book 5 Ms Chase 9 Pile up 
14 Persia now 15 Kind of miss 
or beer 16 Roman a clef 17 Soft mineral 18 Judge's bench 19 Engraved 
pil~r 

20 Sitting pretty 23 Full of mud 24 Mal de­25 Far East boat 28 Muslim prince 30 Expression 
of disapproval 33 City in NY 34 Soak up 35 Pressing need 36 That's lifel 39 Sts. 40 Touched down 41-facie 42 Legal point 43 Cereal ©1986 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 44 Partial 
All Rights Reserved 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

NEBSICOWLS  ICHUG  
A G U E  A R 0 S E  A 0 N E  
HORREND[O  S  BRIM  

-N I N E D IAN E­E T Hit C S B R 0 CADES PIEITA MOONY.TAT S T AIY TAR P TIOGA 0 L D. C H R I S L E lA R N ME T E 0 R I F U NID ED -OLL.AIS LARD­
REED HIPPOIROME 
I R A E E R A S E E V I L 
A I D S R A S E S D A T E 
9{30{86 
46 City in 50 Labor leader 
Bolivia Eugene 47 Red letters 51 nny particle 48 Actress 52 lulu 
Talbot 53 Russ. range 49 Mild oath 54 Printing term 45 Taro food 46 Seine 
tributary 47 In disgrace 55 Begot 56 Ornamental 
case 57 Concerning 58 Barrel part 59 Nee 60 Small duck 61 One who grades 62 City worry 63 Mr. Gardner 
DOWN 1 Josip Broz 2 Algerian port 3 Beer ingre­
dient 4 Surround 5 Native 6 Foliaceous 7 Ger. philoso­
pher 8 Principal 9 Response 
10 Drive 11 Assert 12 Vend 13 Luge or pung 21 Chopin's 

instrument 22 Gives forth 25 Mounted 
Indian soldier 26 Breathing 27 First king 
of Egypt 28 Tuckered out 29 Debatable 30 Menage a­31 Fr. river 32 Prepare bread 34 lugosi or 
Bartok 35 Ancient 
Hebrew 37 Ave­38 Of a certain 
church: abbr. 43 Frontier 44 Pedaling 45 Irritate 
* •• .......... .,.,•• ..,..,.,•• ..,· .....-..........-~·· .......... ~· .......................,, .... .,.."'·'\.·~···"··· 

Tuesday, September 30, 1986, -page 12 
l"·. 

SRorts 
ND soccer captures Wright St. title; dominant play pushes record to 9-2 
By SHAWN BUSHWAY and PETE GEGEN 
Sports Writers 
The Notre Dame soccer team pushed its record to 9-2 by cap­turing the four-team Wright State Invitational Tournament. 
The team crushed the Univer­sity of Miami (Ohio), 4-0, on Sat­urday and held off a late rally by Division II power Wright State to win, 3-2, on Sunday. 
This tournament victory was the first under Head Coach Den­nis Grace and promises to move the Irish up from last week's number-nine ranking in the Great Lakes Region. 
In the first game on Saturday, the team out-shot Miami, 15-6, in the process of scoring four goals on the way to a relatively easy victory. 
"We totally dominated," said a pleased Grace. "It wasn't nip­and-tuck. so we were able to sub­stitute freely and not wear down the starters.·: 

Sophmore Randy Morris scored the first goal at 4:30 on an assist from sophmore John Guignon. Guignon struck again with an unassisted goal at 20:35, and then assisted on sophmore midfielder John Sternberg's goal nine minutes later. 
Forward Bruce "Tiger" McCourt scored on a breakaway goal at 63:20 for the only goal of the second half. 
Senior goalkeeper Hugh Bres­lin made four saves to record the shutout. 
In the othergame on Saturday, Wright State beat Dayton, 2-0, to set up the title clincher on Sun­day between Wright State and Notre Dame. 
At first It appeared the Irish would blow out the Raiders. McCourt scored at 8:43 on an as­sist from freshman Rolf Berhje to put Notre Dame out front. That goal gave McCourt a team­leading total of 29 points on the season. 
Senior wingback Marvin Lett scored again on a pass from senior forward Bill Gross at 23: 13 to give Notre Dame a 2-0 lead. Grace was pleased with with the team's effort on Lett's first goal of the season. 
"It was just a great play," ex­plained Grace. "We stole the ball at midfield, took It down the line and centered it. Marvin pivoted around and hit a volley with his left foot." 
The Irish, however, failed to tally another goal in the first half despite numerous chances. That spelled trouble for Notre Dame in the second half. 
"Wright State came out think­ing they could win," said Grace. "They really fought hard." 
With the Irish laying back on defense, the Raiders finally lit the scoreboard on a goal by Jim Kin­derline at 86: 16. 
But Irish forward Pat Murphy scored an insurance goal 29 
see MURPHY, page 9 

The Notre Dame women's tennis team faced team in the nation. Sheila Horox details the some stiff competition at a tournament action at right. hosted by Northwestern, the sixth-ranked 
Youth movement powers Saint Mary's tennis 
Young talent is perhaps the Saint Mary's tennis team's finest asset this season. 
Much of the Belles' success can be .attributed to freshmen and sopohomore players, according to Head Coach Deb Laverie. 
Two such players for the team are freshman singles and doubles player Jennifer Block and freshman singles player Charlene Szajko. 
Block. who hails from Kalamazoo, Mich., is the number-one seed for the Belles, posting a 6-2 record so far this season. Block's only losses were players from St. Francis, an NAJA team, and to DePauw, an NCAA team. 
Szajko, a native of Mishawaka, is the team's number-six seed, also with a 6-2 season record. Un­defeated in NAJA play, Szajko's only losses have been to players from St. Joseph (Rensselaer, Ind.) and to Wisconsin-Milwaukee, both NCAA teams. 
Block and Szajko are successes because of their drive to achieve, according to Laverie, who believes both players are very competent. 
Laverie says that Block. for example, handles her­self quite well at the number-one seed. 
"Jennifer is just an outstanding player," she says. "When she came in, I knew she had strokes. She hits the ball well, and she moves quickly. Jennifer has the heart, too. She really strives to do well. 
"I think it's tough for a freshman to play at number­one. She has a lot of weight to carry, and a lot is expected from her, but she's just been super." 
Block. who was named to both Michigan's All-State tennis team and the Greater Kalamazoo All-Star ten­nis team for her high school tennis accomplish­ments, finds college tennis quite a different game from that of high school. 
"College tennis is a lot more competitive," Block says. "Our practices are a lot tougher, too. I find that conditioning and playing for two and a half hours each day pay off in a match, though." 
Block. who was named the most valuable player of the Hackett Catholic Central High School girls' tennis team, notes a marked improvement in her play since last season. 
"I have a lot more confidence in my strokes," she says. "It must be because of all the reinforcement we get each day. I think I've Improved since the day the team started practicing." 
Andrea LaFreniere 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 

While Block is quite a successful singles player, she also makes up half of the Belles' number-one seed doubles team. Junior Kate McDevitt is Block's doubles partner, and the two complement each other, according to Laverie. 
"Jennifer Is an aggressive player, and Kate is a consistent, steady player," Laverle said. "Their styles gel really well together. They have played well all season." 
Laverie notes that the pair's season record Is deceiving. · 
"Although their record is only 2-6, all of their losses were very close," Laverle said. "They've played some tough competition and have lost some tough matches." 
Block agrees that she and McDevitt are a strong doubles team, despite their record. 
"Kate and I play well together," she said. "Our goals are pretty similar. We communicate on the court, and that's the key to being a successful doubles team." 

The ObserverA>avld rlscher 

Irish Sweeper Pat Szanto guards the ball from a DePaul defender in a game earlier this season. Shawn Bushway details the soccer team's first-place showing In the Wright State Tournament at left. 
Irish tennis improving against host Wildcats 
By SHEILA HOROX 
Sports Writer 
Northwestern, currently ranked 6th in the nation, hosted the women's Midwest Intercol­legiate Tennis tournament last weekend, which. included Notre Dame, Eastern Michigan, Ten­nessee, Iowa and Kansas. 
Irish Coach Sharon Gelfman was particularly pleased with in­dividual performances against the nationally-ranked Wildcats of Northwestern. "In previous years we weren't even able to give Northwestern any competition," said Gelfman. "But we had some good matches against them and even the losing scores weren't in­dicative of how well we played." 
Co-captain Tammy Schmidt lost a three-set decision to Chris­tina Schuschel of Northwestern, 1-6, 6-4, 6-2, In one of the con­solation finals. Schuschel used a variety of top spin lobs in trying to keep Schmidt deep in the backcourt but Schmidt coun­tered with mid-court volleys. 
"It was one of the best matches she's ever played," noted Gelfman. 
Freshman Alice Lohrer also faced a tough Northwestern op­ponent in Kelly Boyse. Lohrer lost 6-4, 7-5, in that opening singles match but bounced back in a consolation win over Iowa's Patty Desimone, 3-6, 7-6 (7-3 tie­breaker), 6-0. 
Lohrer was up 5-4 in the second set, when a disagree­ment on the score interrupted play. "I was a little unnerved over the dispute," said Lohrer. "But coach kept telling me to relax and not worry about who was across the net just to play my game." 
see IRISH, page 10 

Like Block. Szajko is a success because of her drive to excel in singles competition, according to Laverie. 
"Charlene is a real fighter," she said. "She never gives up, and she has a lot of desire. She played for us last year and was outstanding. This summer Char­lene really worked on her game, and now it's at an even better level than it was last season." 
Szajko, who was named the Belles' most valuable player last spring, agrees that she has improved but nonetheless, thinks there are still weaknesses in her game. 
"My strokes are more accurate, and I have a better toss and spin on my serve than I had last semester," she said. "My problem is I stew over points missed. I need to work on taking it one point at a time. I have to remember I'm out here to have fun." 
Not only does Szajko intend to work on her mental game for the remainder of the season, but she also Intends to become a more aggressive player. 
"I have to come up to the net more," she said. "If I work on that and if I learn to concentrate more, I'll be pleased." 
Last season Szajko was the NAJA Indiana State Champion, winning all her matches at the state com­petition, and was named District Champion for remaining undefeated in regular season play. 
In addition to succeeding In athletics, Szajko also excels academically. She is the recipient of the 1986 Kaminsky Scholarship, awarded to a student ofPolish descent who maintains a high scholastic average. Szajko was also honored with the Tri Kappa Academic Scholarship, presented to a student who has a su­perior academic record and who resides in St. Joe County. 
With talented players like Block and Szajko on the roster, it Is evident that the Saint Mary's tennis team has quite a promising future. 
~------------------------------------------------------------------------­






