.------------------~--~-------~--~ 
VOL. XXI, NO. 64 
Honduras requests aid to help fight Sandinistas 
Associated Press 
TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras­The Honduran army battled some 700 Nicaraguan soldiers crossing into Honduran terri­tory Sunday, burning three vil­lages, and President Jose Az­cona Hoyo asked that U.S. aircraft fly reinforcements to the area. 
Honduran military spokes­man Capt. Carlos Quezada Aguilar said in a nationwide broadcast that the fighting along the border "is of consi­derable proportions." 
Gen. Humberto Regalado Hernandez, the armed forces chief, "has ordered the air force to attack groups of San­dinista troops that have en­tered our territory and these actions will not cease until the invading forces abandon Hon­duran territory for good," the spokesman said. 
Quezada Aguilar called the incursion "an open provocation and a flagrant violation of our territory." 
Azcona Hoyo said on a na­tional radio broadcast from the presidential palace that he had asked for and received ap­proval to use U.S. aircraft to ferry Honduran reinforce­ments to the battle. 
Earlier, a military intelli­gence source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told The Associated Press by tele­phone at midday that heavy fighting was continuing around Cifuentes, about 160 miles sout­heast of Tegucigalpa. 
At least 18 Honduran soldiers 
see HONDURAS, page 4 


tioned at the shelter from 10 
p.m. to 2 a.m. to conduct the test as part of an effort to 

Hofman to resign teaching position 
Drunk driving -page 6 

MONDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1986 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Notre Dame junior dies after being hit by a student's car 
By MARK PANKOWSKI News Editor 
A Zahm Hall junior died Sat­urday 10 hours after being struck by a car driven by a Notre Dame student, who was arrested and charged with driving while intoxicated. 
Michael C. Cogswell, 20, died at 12:05 p.m. at St. Joseph's Medical Center. 
He was taken there after being struck on Saint Mary's Road at about 1:50 a.m., accor­ding to Corporal Mary Potter of the St. Joseph County Police Department. 
Cogswell, an English major from Marcellus, N.Y., died from massive head injuries suffered in the accident, which occurred about 1000 feet west of U.S. 33. 
The 21-year-old driver of the car told police he was heading eastbound, stopped at a stop sign, then went forward and hit mates said Cogswell was walking with two friends when he was hit. The three were re­turning from a party at the Saint Mary's Clubhouse, he said. 
an  unknown  object,  Potter  
said.  
One  of  Cogswell's  room­ 

The driver was arrested "~ ·t': 

Michael C. CogsweU 
after submitting to two blood­alcohol tests, said Potter. He was released from the county jail on $100 bond. 
The accident, which remains under investigation, occurred 
see STUDENT, page 3 

Security tests blood of over 200 students 
By SHEILA KANEHAN News Staff 
Notre Dame Security of­fered students the opportu­
Working her tail off 
TheObserver/DamianChin 
nity to test the level of alco­Peggy McDonough, a fifth year architect student, races to finish 
hol in their blood Friday her thesis, due today. 
night at the Main Circle. Se­curity officers were sta­educate students and stop drunk driving. 
Testing involves breath­ing into an Alco-sensor blood alcohol content testing device, which gives "very accurate results," .. accor­ding to Assistant Director of Security Phillip Johnson. The main purpose of the 
see DRUNK, page 4 

By ROB HENNIG Senior Staff Reporter 
Emil Hofman, professor of Chemistry and dean of the Freshman Year of Studies, will retire from his teaching posi­tion effective at the end of this academic year. 
Hofman, who has taught at Notre Dame since 1953, will continue to serve as dean of the freshman year. 
"There's nothing compl­icated involved. It's just a mat­ter of when there are a few more years left in your career, you have to decide how you are going to spend those years," Hofman said. 
Hofman indicated he wanted to devote all of his energies to the Freshman Year. 
Currently Hofman teaches Chemistry 115 and 116 to ap­proximately 1000 students every year. He has taught the course to over 20,000 freshman over the course of some 25 years. During that time, Hof­man's courses have been can­celled only three times. 
Hofman's weekly seven­question quizzes and use of review sessions and audiovisual aids have distin­guished his general chemistry course over his career. 
He has received numerous teaching awards, including being named as one of the top ten professors in the United States by the Council for Ad­vancement and Support of Edu­cation in 1985. Hofman was also the first recipient of the Thomas P. Madden Award for excellence in teaching Notre Dame freshman. He received the award in 1963. 
According to Provost Timothy O'Meara, a replace­ment has not yet been selected. There is some indication that the format of the general 
chemistry course might be 
revised. "My guess (is that) 
Average Responses to Alcohol 
the nature of teaching might 
Individual response may differ, depending on your mood, how fast 
very well change," O'Meara 
you drink, and the amount of food in your stomach. 
said. O'Meara indicated finding a 
DRINKS (in a two-hour period) 

replacement for Hofman would 
Weight 1.5 ozs. 86 proof liquor or 12 ozs. beer
be difficult. "I think he's part of the Notre Dame folklore and 
100 
1 2 mystique," said O!Meara. 
120 
1 2 According to Hofman, many 
1 2
140 
of the rumors that have 
160 
1 2
developed about him are un­
180 
1 2 
true. Hofman said he has had 
200 
1 2
nothing to do with the develop­
220 
1 2
ment of the Prell shampoo bot­
240 
2
tle and that he is not paid a dollar a year. Hofman received his A.B. 
DRIVING IMPAIRED DRIVE
Degree in Chemistry from the 
D TO .05% .05%-.09% .10% & UP
University of Miami in 1949. He In most states, a person is legally intoxicated if his or received his M.S. in 1953 and 
her Blood Alchohol Content reaches .10%. 
his Ph.D. in Chemistry in 1962, 
Source: National Highway Traffic Observer Graphic 
both from Notre ·name. He is 
Safety Administration Geoffrey Sauer 
married to the former Joan Sherron. They have three sons: James, Thomas and Michael. 

BE CAREFUL DDRIVING 

The Observer Monday, December 8, 1986-page 2 
In Brief 
Thirty eight freshmen are still residing in study lounges in Flanner, Grace, and Sorin Halls. The problem, accor­ding to Director of Student Residences Evelyn Reinebold, is that "no one is moving off-campus." She said most of the freshmen will probably move out of the lounges next semester. The order of reassignment is determined by the date on which the University received the student's con­firmation letter to attend Notre Dame. "We should have enough openings next semester," said Reinebold. But, she added,"Never say never."-The Observer 
Louis Berzai, a Notre Dame faculty advisor, has been elected vice president of Association Growth and Support of Data Processing Management Association (DPMA). Berzai has been a DPMA member since 1967, and also is a Kiwanis and Elks member.-The Observer 
A lighted Christmas cross that decorates a Mississippi state building has drawn threats of a law suit from the Mississippi American Civil Liberties Union. The ACLU alleges that the cross, a tradition since 1979, breaches the constitutional separation of church and state. 
-Associated Press 
Of Interest 
Free tickets for Shenanigans' Christmas Concert, to be held Tuesday night at 7:45, will be distributed today from 1 to 6 p.m. at the Washington Hall ticket office. If the supply lasts, tickets also will be available at the door. ­
The Observer 
Associate Provost Father Edward Malloy, C.S.C., will be the featured speaker at the Amnesty International Write-a-thon meeting tonight from 8 to 10 at the Center for Social Concerns. Everyone is invited to this event which will feature music and refreshments. -The Observer 
Ticket vouchers for the Glee Club Christmas Concerts will be distributed Tuesday and Wednesday from 1 to 4 
p.m. at the Washington Hall's manager's office. One per­son is limited to two vouchers. The concerts will be held Friday night at 8 and 10.-The Observer 
The Kellogg Institute will sponsor a "Brown Bag Sem­inar" Tuesday at noon in 131 Decio. Rodrigo Montoya, a Kellogg faculty fellow and professor of social anthropology at San Marcos University, Lima, Peru, will speak on the topic "Culture, Politics, and the Ethnic Problem." -The Observer 
A Senior Class Mass to celebrate the Immaculate Con­ception will be held tonight at 7 in the Log Chapel. Father Peter Rocca will be the celebrant on this holy day of ob­ligation. -The Observer 
Weather 
Is Notre Dame a dry campus? Not today as we receive an 80 percent chance of rain mixing with freezing rain and sleet with the high in the upper 30s. A 70 percent chance of rain and freezing rain tonight and the low in the lower 30s. A 70 percent chance of mixed rain and sleet Tuesday and the high in the upper 30s. 
Design Editor............... Kathy Huston .................................... Alison Pivonka Design Assistant ....••.•.. Tom Schiesser Viewpoint Layout .... Kathy Behrmann Layout Staff.......... Alfred Christopher Accent Copy Editor . ......... Lisa Young Typesetters ........................ Pat Clark Accent Layout.......... Melinda Murphy .....· · .............................. Chris Reardon Typist ................... .......... Colleen Foy News Editor.............. Mary Heilmann NO Day Editor........... Alison Pivonka Copy Editor...................... Chris Julka Ad Design •••.•..•..••..•...•... Joan Wrappe Sports Copy Editor...... Marty Strasen Photographer .............. Paul Oeschger Viewpoint Copy Editor .••..................... 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Obsener, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 46SS6. 
The Oblerver is a member of The Asaoclated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Writing a simple accident story: Now why should that be so hard? 
It's happ~ned three times this semester. 
It starts with a phone call over the weekend. "Hello, Mark?" the caller will say. "Did you hear about last night's accident?" 
"No. What have you heard?" 
"Someone was hit by a car driven by a Notre Dame student. I think the student was arrested for driving under the influence." 
"Oh, Jeeeeeez ... OK . : . Thanks." 
I hang up, then call the police department. "Who was struck? Who was arrested? What was the charge? How did the accident happen?" 
I scribble some notes, then call St. Joseph's Medical Center. "Could you give me the condi­tion of ..." 
Fifteen minutes later and I'm sitting in front of a computer terminal at The Observer. 
It won't take me long to write the article. Accident stories, after all, are the easiest to write. Just plug in a name, a date, some details and there you have it: 
''A South Bend man died Sunday after being struck by a car driven by a Notre Dame student, who was arrested on charges of driving while intoxicated ... A Zahm Hall junior died Satur­day 10 hours after being struck by a car ..." 
Yet in a different way, accident stories are the hardest to write. 
No matter how hard you try to be an unbiased, unemotional journalist, you can't help but think about the human lives involved: the Grace Hall freshman lying in a hospital with his mouth wired shut, the dead 52-year-old South Bend man, the dead 20-year-old Zahm Hall junior. 
Then there's their family and friends .. In all likelihood, they had talked to some of them just the day before: "How are things going in school? What's new at work? Gosh, only two more weeks and we'll be home for Christmas." 
And how can I forget the students who were arrested? The night before they were carefree, maybe having a few drinks with friends, enjoy­ing the weekend. Just like hundreds of other Notre Dame students. 
And like many of these students, they got behind the wheel of a car. But they weren't as lucky as these other students. Their cars struck someone. 
The next thing they knew they were explain­ing to a police officer how the accident hap­pened. As they spoke, they watched medical personnel work on the accident victim. The of­ficer offered them a blood-alcohol test. 
A few minutes later they were in a police car 
1631 E. EDISON, JUST OFF NO CAMPUS
liii====== 10-9DAILY 11-7SUNDAY 

* •••••••••••••••••••••••••••• , 
~ Know Your Rights! ~ 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
Take a look at the Students' Rights Manual being 
~ distributed throughout the dorms this week. Giving ~ ~ 
a clear outline of the rights that Domers have at NO, 
~ this manual also lists the proper procedures to take ~ when accused of an offense. Also available is a listingt of South Bend lawyers who are willing to work with ~ students at reduced rates. t 
,~· ~*************************. ~ 
Mark Pankowski 
News Editor 

on their way to the county jail. There they were offered another blood-alcohol test. They talked some more with the officers. 
Then they were booked. Just like in the movies. Except this was real. 
A few hours later, they probably called a friend to bail them out. Later they would call their parents back home. 
It's the next day now. They sit in their rooms, wondering how it all happened. They're facing the possibility of a criminal record. And a prison term. 
They can't help but think about the accident victim. But that's something they'll do for the rest of their lives. 
Meanwhile, the victim's family and friends are in town, visiting the hospital or making fu­neral arrangements. Some of them are in shock. Others are crying. All are trying to make sense of the tragedy. 
And at The Observer, there's a news editor preparing to write the accident story. He's won­dering if he'll get another call next weekend. 
"Hello, Mark? Did you hear about last night's accident?" 

The Observer Monday, December 8, 1986-page 3 

Right to Life dinner, Mass features lecture on Roe by ND professor 

By REGIS COCCIA Assistant News Editor 
A Respect Life Dinner Satur­day night featured a lecture by Prof. Douglas Kmiec, teacher at the Notre Dame Law School and current deputy assistant Attorney General in the Office of Legal Counsel of the U.S. De­partment of Justice. 
Speaking on "Respect for Life and Respect for the Law: Are They the Same?'' Kmiec likened the Pro-Life movement to the martyrdom of St. Thomas More. 
"450 years ago, Thomas More went to his martyrdom affirming that he was the king's good servant but God's first," Kmiec said. "For the past 13 years, ever since Roe vs. Wade enshrined abortion as a constitutional right, many of us have found ourselves in a similar dilemma. 
"We are people who have great respect for our govern­ment and its laws. But this respect is sorely tested by a decision fundamentally at odds with the teaching of the Catho­lic Church," Kmiec said. 
"Given this conflict, how do we follow More's example and be the Republic's loyal citizens?" Kmiec asked. "At his trial, More told his accusers that the law he alledgedly vio­lated suffered from two defects. 
"First, 'The act of Parlia­ment was,' he said, 'an evil one.' But second, it was also an act which Parliament had no proper authority to pass, said Kmiec. "So, too, with Roe vs. Wade." Kmiec said "as a mat­ter of moral and religious teaching, we would do well to oppose it on that basis alone." 
Also, however, according to Kmiec, there is nothing in the history or the text of the Con­stitution which authorizes the abortion right. Kmiec said "The Supreme Court is author­ized only to interpret the Con­stitution and federal law. Roe vs. Wade is based on neither." 
Kmiec referred to the 
writings of Supreme Court Jus­
tice Blackmun, who said the 
right to abortion exists in the 
word "liberty" in the 14th 
amendment. According to 
Kmiec, fellow Justice White 
said the Court " 'essentially 
created something out of noth­
ing.' " 
Kmiec called for an ex­amination of the reasoning of the Court in Roe vs. Wade by considering certain decisions of the Court that have charcterized rights as funda­mental. He said the decisions, which relate to marital privacy and access to contraceptives, are highly controversial in themselves. "Even if one ad­mits the validity of those cases," Kmiec said, "they still do not justify the decision in Roe." 
Kmiec said "the personal autonomy or privacy relates to someone, as the Court said, 'is­olated in their privacy.' Roe, as we know, implicates another entity-the unborn child. 
''Acknowledging the decision in Roe to be bad Constitution law, or indeed no law at all, does not require agreement on the metaphysical or theologi­cal question of when life begins, Kmiec said. "It merely re­quires the recognition that whatever the fetus is, it con­tains all the genetic informa­tion that characterizes a mem­ber of the species homo sapiens and distinguishes an individual member of that species from all others.'' 
Kmiec served as a White House Fellow in 1982, earning the Distinguished Service Award in addition to being recently named the Fulbright 40th Anniversary Distin­guished Fellow. He also has authored several books. 
Also attending the dinner, which was held in the North Dining Hall, were Daniel Manion, U.S. judge on the 7th circuit Court of Appeals, Dr. Janet Smith, founder of the Womens' Care Center in South Bend and Kris Murphy, presi­dent of the Notre DameSaint Mary's Right To Life group. 


Business not so sweet for students in their attempt to market snacks 
By GREG TUEL News Staff
Reflection over a guitar TheObserver/PauiOeschger 
Business has been anything
Freshman John Immonen, member of the band "Youth in Asia," 
but sweet for the Munchy Com­
is seen here in a mirror, thoughtfully playing his guitar. 
pany, a project designed by Notre Dame students Frank Angelle, Rob Very, and Luis Manglano to deliver snack
of the Castle 
foods to students. 

Except for its one-week trial period, the company has not 

'" ......~••'s Hairstyling 
$6student $8.50 complete 
been in operation, according to
cut style 
Angelle.

MINUtES AWAYFROM CAMPUS 
Currently Angelle, Very, and 
272·0312 277·1691 
Manglano are awaiting a deci­sion from the Senior Staff con­cerning the objections of hall 
DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 
We •leo r........... Royal Bl'o••• Sa•ta••••• 
rectors to the project. 
C.•t... S.. • ••• I• ••••••• •.. Not Ho•r• 
According to Angelle, the
.,_.... a ~~~. Roed 13 (1MhiDd ~s-loolc._l 
response by saying our busi­ness would compete with with hall foodsales, and some replies went as far as to say it 
would  undercut  hall  food­ 
sales," he added.  
Angelle  admitted  the  

Munchy Company would have competed with hall foodsales. "To some extent, it would -our prices were low,'' he said. "And we believe that's good be­cause it would give the student a choice.'' 
Angelle said there are other reasons why he does not agree with the rectors' decision. "The biggest business for foodsales appears to be pizza," he said, and yet "the rectors don't have Life and Student Affairs John Goldrick, Assistant Vice Pres­ident for Student Services Peter Rocca, and Assistant Vice President for Student Af­fairs Jean Lenz, according to Angelle. 
The company proved itself to be a success during its trial period, according to Angelle. "In that week," he said, "we sold close to $250 worth of goods to Cavanaugh and Farley alone." 
Angelle explained the original intent of the organiza­tion. "We had intended all along to make contributions to a charitable organization,''" he said. 
"Technically, it would be a nonprofit organization, but th~ employees would still be paid,'' said Angelle. "We planned to pay ourselves adequately, depending on the sales, but we also planned to give about 50% of the profits to Logan Center. If we had started in November, I estimate we could have con­tributed over $1000 to the Logan Center by the end of the year.'' 

Student Activities Committee originally approved the proj­ect, but Joni Neal Thompson, the Director of Student Activi­ties, suggested that they check with the rectors. 
"Out of the 12 forms sent by the Office of Student Activities asking whether or not the rec­tors approved the proposal, all 12 were returned saying no," said Angelle. "Al.most every one of the letters justified their a say on whether Dominoes comes in .... Can you imagine what the students would say if the rectors said said they couldn't buy from Dominoes?" 
In accordance with the pro­cedure dictated by DuLac, the three founders of the company submitted an appeal to the Senior Staff, which consists of Vice President of Student Af­fairs David Tyson, Associate Vice President for Residence 
Where the need is . . . there we will be. 
As individuals and as a community, we will work toward the alleviation of hunger, misery and the lack of knowledge. 
HOLY CROSS BROTHERS 
Br. Don Gibbs, C.S.C. Director of Vocations Box 460 Notre DameviN 46556 


Student 
continuedfrom page 1 
on the same night Notre Dame Security was administering free blood-alcohol tests to stu­dents. 
Only three weeks earlier, a South Bend man died after being struck by a car driven by a Notre Dame student. The 20­year-old driver was arrested and charged with driving while intoxicated. 
Another Notre Dame student was arrested on the same charge after her car struck and injured a Notre Dame fresh­man on Sept. 27. 
Cogswell's parents, who ar­rived from Marcellus on Satur­day, went to a memorial Mass for their son that evening. The Mass, held in Zahm Hall's chapel, was attended by more than 350 people, according to Father Thomas King, the hall's rector. 
Another memorial Mass is planned for this week in Sacred Heart Church, said Director of University Ministry Father Andre Leveille. No date has been set for the Mass. 
Funeral services for Cogswell are tentatively sched­uled for Tuesday at Saint Mary's of the Lake Church in Skaneateles, N.Y. Burial will be in St. Frances of Xavier Cemetery in Marcellus. McGann Funeral Home, 2313 
E. Edison Rd., is handling the local arrangements. 
Cogswell is survived by his parents and two sisters. 

The Observer Monday, December 8, 1986-page 4 

Initiates to ilie faith proceed down the aisle in Sacred Heart Church during 12:15 a.m. Sunday Mass. Accompanied by their sponsors, the five candidates for the Catechumenate and the twelve candidates for Full Communion partic­ipated in the "Rite of Becoming a Catec­humen." 
Israeli troops wound Palestinian as unrest continues for fourth day 
Associated Press 
BETHLEHEM, Occupied West Bank-Israeli troops shot and wounded Palestinian youth Sunday as protesters pelted soldiers with rocks in a dozen towns and refugee camps, mil­itary and Palestinian sources said. 
The clashes, occurring on the fourth day of continual violent unrest, marred Christmas preparations at Manger Square in Bethlehem, where soldiers fired into the air to dis­perse a handful of Palestinian protesters. 
Israeli soldiers have killed three Palestinian youths since Thursday. 
Honduras 
continuedfrom page 1 
were reported wounded. The Nicaraguan force had "suf­fered many casualties up to now," the source said. "There are many dead and wounded." 
The report could not be inde­pendently verified because the government has barred reporters from the area be­cause of the fighting. 
In Managua, the Nicaraguan capital, a person who answered the telephone at the Defense Ministry declined comment. 
Drunk 
continuedfrom page 1 
tests is to help students learn how much they can drink before they are legally drunk, Johnson said. 
After completing an 18­qu~stion survey about drink­ing, students were able to take the test. Between 200 and 250 students took the test before the closing at 1:50 a.m. 
"Most of the students regis­tered between .06-0.1," accor­ding to Anne Schellinger, an in­vestigator with the Notre Dame Security Department. In Indiana~ a person can be ar­rested for driving while intox­
'Mistakes were made,' Reagan says in speech 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Reagan, adopting a con­ciliatory tone amid unrelenting criticism over his secret arms deals with Iran and payments to Nicaraguan rebels, said Sat­urday that mistakes were made in carrying out his policies and pledged to "set things right." 
Yet Reagan defended his policy of reaching out to Iran. 
"While we're still seeking all the facts, it's obvious that the execution of these policies was flawed and mistakes were made,'' Reagan said in his weekly radio address. 
Reagan continued to deny that he had attempted to swap arms for hostages and promised that his administra­tion would get to the bottom of how U.S. arms were sold to Iran and some proceeds sent to Nicaraguan Contras. 
"It was not my intent to do business with (Ayatollah Ruhollah) Khomeini, to trade weapons for hostages nor to un­dercut our policy of anti­terrorism," Reagan said. 
Reagan said Nov. 25, when the administration disclosed that up to $30 million of the money paid for U.S. arms shipped to Iran was sent to U.S.-backed Nicaraguan rebels, that one element of the implementation of his policy was "seriously flawed." His Saturday statement was the first time he has referred to "mistakes," but he did not out­line the errors. 
Senate Republican leader Bob Dole said Reagan's con­cession "goes a long way toward" improving his credibility. 
"I think he's sticking by his policy of improving relations with Iran," Dole said, but added that he thinks Reagan's reference to "mistakes" being made implies that he, the pres­ident, shares blame. 
In the Democratic response, House Speaker Thomas P. 0'Neill Jr. said Reagan's secret policy of sending arms to Iran was a "terrible decision." 
"The American people did not build this country to what it is today so that the arsenal of democracy would become the arsenal of the Ayatollah. Paying tribute to terrorists is the one sure way to keep them killing," he said. 
"I pledge to you I will set things right,"' the president promised. "That's what I'm doing now." 
Reagan repeated the asser­tion, made in the televised speech in which he disclosed that an independent counselor would be requested, that "if illegal acts were undertaken in the implementation of our policy, those who did so will be brought to justice." 

Violence spread Sunday to four Israeli university cam­puses, where hundreds of Jewish and Arab students protested in solidarity with Palestinans of the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip. The largest protest was at Jerusalem's Hebrew Univer­sity, where soldiers used tear gas to quell the demonstration. 
Five Israeli buses were stoned in Jerusalem and the West Bank, with four Israeli passengers injured, the army said. 
Palestinan teen-agers blocked main roads with bur­ning tires, threw stones and waved PLO flags in demonstra­tions in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, home for 1.4 million Palestinians and more than 50,000 Jewish settlers. 
In the Gaza town of Khan Yunis, soldiers wounded a 19­year-old in the knee when they fired on dozens of Palestinian demonstrators, Palestinian news reports said. The army said it could not confirm the reports. 
Palestinian journalists say the protests were triggered by fighting between Shiite Mos­lem and Palestinian guerrillas in Lebanon. Palestinians have blamed Israel for aiding the Shiites in south Lebanon. 
!Bd?fllcNcD'~ 
. 1t\a\ Itt
~t\~ Follow 23 South to: ~q2610 Prairie Ave. 
Sou..th Bend 

288-3320 Free Delivery to ND and SMC campuses Spm to 10pm monday through Saturday 
18 inch Cheese Pizza with 1 item $9.00 
AnENTION 
JUNIOR 
interested in 
JPWMORRIS INN LOTTERY 

Your name and phone number must be submitted to the Student Activities Office by 4:30pm, Monday, Dec. 8. Winners will be notified BY PHONE before Saturday, Dec.13. 
The Honduran intelligence source said about 1,000 Hon­duran soldiers from the 6th and 9th Infantry Battalions, backed by helicopter gunships, had en­gaged the Nicaraguan force. About 1,000 soldiers from the 1st and 2nd Infantry Battalions and the 3rd Artillery Battalion were en route from central Honduras, he said. 
The Nicaraguan force was reported to have crossed the border Saturday afternoon and set fire to the deserted villages of Mitingale, Buena Vista and La Esperanza, all near 
Cifuentes in El Paraiso prov­ince. 
Honduran troops have been fighting since then to throw them back across the border, the intelligence source said. 
"The Sandinistas are being expelled," he added. 
The three villages burned were abandoned more than six months ago because of border tension. U.S.-supported rebels fighting the leftist Sandinista government in Nicaragua operate from bases inside southern Honduras. 
Saturday's incursion into Honduras by Sandanista forces was the fifth reported in seven months. 
icated if his blood alcohoi level is 0.1 percent or higher. 
A person can also be arrested on lesser charges of driving while impaired if his blood al­cohol level registers between .05 and .09 percent. 
According to Schellinger, a few students registered over 
0.1 percent and the highest blood alcohol content was 0.2 percent. A student who repor­tedly took four shots of alcohol immediately before taking the test registered only .02 percent. 
"The alcohol was not in the bloodstream yet,'' Schellinger explained, "and in a real road situation there is a waiting per­iod of 20 minutes (before a breathalizer test is adminis­tered) in which the person may not eat or smoke," to allow for accurate results. 
Security officers distributed pamphlets discussing "Drunk Driving and the Law" and "How Alcohol and Drugs Affect Driving Skills" to students after they had taken the test. 
"We had a good response, and the kids thanked us. Many said they were in no shape to drive even though they were under the legally intoxicated 
0.1 percent blood alcohol level," Schellinger said. 
Notre Dame Security plans on more alcohol-related educa­tional activities, and is "willing and happy to talk to any groups who want more information," Schellinger said. 

.r---------------­
\TielY~_O_i_n_t__~---------Mon-day,-Decem-ber-s,too~s-pa~ges 
United States' social programs must be expanded 

Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
A major criticism of U.S. domestic policy, from both internal and external sources, is its lack of compassion in dealing with the poor, and its lack of practicality in administering social welfare programs. 
Michael Froning 
in the minority 
It is the belief of many that the U.S. government's effort to alleviate the poverty problem in this country has backfired horribly, primarily through programs designed to encourage the break-up of families and maintain people at low income levels rather than helping them achieve a normal stan­dard of living. 
Many people, conservatives and liberals alike, recognize the need for major reforms in social welfare pro­grams in the United States. One possi­ble alternative, as examined by Harrell 
R. Rodgers, Jr. in his book entitled "Poor Women, Poor Families," is the Western European approach. Through various programs, Western Europe has enjoyed great success in ameliorating their social problems where the United States has failed. 
Western Europe's approach to social welfare is fundamentally different from the United States' in three signif­icant ways. 
First, Western European programs are designed to prevent social problems through systems such as national health programs, extensive housing programs, and child and family al­lowances. 
Secondly, Western Europeans believe in universal programs, in other words everyone is eligible, because they are more effective in preventing social ills, and they enjoy broader public support because of the lack of social stigma attached to them. 
Finally, many Western European countries engage in public intervention to keep the economy healthy as a way of ameliorating social ills. 
How do these programs manifest themselves in the public policy of the United States and Western Europe? Let's take a brief look at American pro­grams and their problematic implica­tions and then examine the Western European solutions and how they avoid the problems we now face. 
The United States is the only major Western industrial country that: does not have a uniform cash benefit pro­gram for poor fa miles; restricts cash welfare benefits almost exclusively to single parent families headed by wo­men; has no statutory maternity benefits; and has no universal child rearing or health care benefits. The implications of these differences are es­pecially problematic. In the United States: the emphasis is on dealing with families or individuals after they be­come poor or ill; assistance is tempo­rary, varies by state, and is limited mostly to families headed by single wo­men who must remain single in order to receive help; little or nothing is done to move welfare mothers into the work force, rather they are discouraged by lack of supportive services and loss of benefits; poor families are only eligible for critical assistance if they stay on welfare; and most employed women cannot have a child without suffering serious wage losses or their jobs. 
Western Europe, however, has managed to avoid essentially all these problems and has had noticeably more success in solving social problems than the United States. Let's examine some of their programs to understand why. 
CHILD AND FAMILY AL­LOWANCES: All Western European counries provide cash and inkind benefits, frequently referred to as "family benefit" packages, to supple­ment the income of families with children. All countries also provide a special supplement to single parent families, and in most countries, all benefits are universal and tax free, regardless of income opr family struc­ture. 
The prevailing belief is that by sharing the cost of child rearing, soci­ety helps insure that the child's basic needs are met so that they will be healthier, better educated and more productive members of society. 
HOUSING ASSISTANCE AND AL­LOWANCE: Western European gov­ernments also subsidize the construc­tion, purchase, and rental of quality housing through various programs. Some results of housing allowances are that single parent and low income families are much less dependent on cash means tested welfare programs because the housing allowance, in ad­dition to the family allowances, con­stitutes a significant part of their in­come. 
This extensive involvement in housing is supported by both conserva­tives, who believe the programs sub­sidized and stimulate the private housing market and the economy, and liberals, who advocate that creating a healthy environment for the family through decent housing is a worthwhile societal goal. 
CHILD SUPPORT: Some gover­ments in Western Europe have a unique system of "advance maintenance pay­ments" to solve the problem of child support. This universal program taxes absent parents a specific proportion of their income each month. The proceeds are then accumulated and distributed such that each child with an absent par­ent is guaranteed a minimum monthly allotment. 
The program is garnering wide popularity for three reasons. One, the program does not penalize absent par­ents, rather it simply asseses them at a fair and regular rate. Second, the children are not penalized if the parent cannot pay or cannot be located. And, finally, required child support reduces the likelihood that the custodial parent will need public assistance. 
HEALTH CARE: Western European countries also have programs equiva­lent to national health services which provide all citizens, regardless of in­come, age, family structure or employ­ment status, with comprehensive health care. In addition, low income families cannot be made poorer due to health care costs, nor do they have to be designated as poor-and then remain poor -to receive assistance. All these countries place the emphasis on preventive health care rather than trying to help people only after they have become ill. 

In most of these countries, a citizen becomes a member of a national health orgnization through the employer, and both pay a monthly fee which accounts for most of the funding. Any citizen who is unemployed or retired is enrolled in a plan financed by the federal andt>r 
local government. These programs are not inexpensive, but they provide com­prehensive health care for all citizens for little more per capita cost than the American system. 
MARKET STATEG IES: In addition to comprehensive social welfare pro­grams, many Western European countries engage in economic policies and public programs in order to main­tain low unemployment levels and reduce the need for public assistance. This commonly involves manipulating interest rates, investing federal money into the private sector and government sponsored job training, relocation and employment programs. 
P.O.BoxQ 
Youthful dreams alter after a semester here 
Dear Editor: 
As I sit here and listen to "What Is Love" by Howard Jones, I wonder about this place. I call it a place because it's another part of my life -from one place to another. 
After catching Tommy Lasorda's remark on television during the football banquet about how he dreamed of com­ing here when he was eight or nine years old, I've got to ask myself the question if that is why I came here. Just like Tommy, I was the same way when I was young. I was awed by the dome and the football team. 
As far as I was concerned, that was enough reason to devote all my time in 
Seden, for instance, believes eco­nomic efficiency is the key to maintain­ing low unemployment levels: Thus the support of obsolete or inefficient jobs is prohibited so as to reduce inef­ficiency. Furthermore, there is no need for workers and unions to protect these obsolete jobs, for workers who lose their jobs are guaranteed other equally good positions with retraining and relocation with pay, if necessary. 
In essence, the Western European ap­proach to social welfare is a more prag­matic one because it meets many basic needs of citizens better than the Amer­ican method. 
The differences are that Western Europe implements a wider range of universal programs available to all citizens, and they do not require that citizens stay unemployed, single, or poor to qualify, or remain eligible, for these critical programs or additional cash benefit programs. 
Thus the security, independence, and dignity of all families are greatly in­creased while lower income families are assured of more options for educa­tion, training, or work. 
Michael Froning is a junior French and Black Studies major and is a regular Viewpoint coumnist. 
grade school and high school to earn the grades needed to get accepted to Notre Dame ... Notre Dame -the great tradition of which I am now a part. No big deal. I am 19 and maybe I should have let go of my youthful dreams and faced the reality of seriously consider­ing other colleges. Should I have chosen Notre Dame over many other univer­sities? 
Well, it's been almost a semester now, and I begin to lose faith. I will not despair though. I will do my best and will try to make the most of it -and will survive! But until I wake up and feel good about being here, I can only remain a little skeptical about my choice of being a Fightin' Irish -and that's all I'm left to be. 
John Schloegel Cavanaugh Hall 
Monday, December 8, 1986 -page 6 

ViewP-oint 
r 
r" 
r­
1 
I 
Driving while drunk means the loss of life 
Another life is lost. Another life is scarred. 
Drinking while intoxicated means not just a loss of license, not just a loss of privilege, not just an embarrassment when caught, it means the loss of lives .. .lots of them. 
There are more than 23,000 deaths each year as a result of drunk driving and 750,000 injuries each year. They happen everywhere; they happen here. 
This weekend the Notre Dam&Saint Mary's community was the scene of its third drunk driving incident this semester. There have been three too many incidents. 
Public awareness and individual concern over drunk driving is in­creasing at Notre Dam&Saint Mary's and around the nation. 
-We applaud the efforts of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's in providing the "Buzz Bus," a reliable alternative to driving for students who have been drinking. 
-The student government "I'm driving" program, which designates a driver in a group who will agree not to drink for the night, is an excellent plan which more students should use. 
-Groups such as BACCHUS, which promotes responsible drinking, should be encouraged on campus. -More alcohol awareness programs similar to the one at Saint Mary's earlier this semester should be organized. 
The information and alternatives are available, but it is up to us to use all of the options. It is a tragic irony that the latest attempt by Notre Dame security to promote drunk driving awareness occurred on the same night as the latest accident. 
The breathalyzer tests and the questionnaire given Friday night were very helpful. Those who took the tests now should know their legal and responsible limits. We cannot change the past, but we do have a direct effect on the future. We have to ensure the loss of life serves as the frightening example it should be. We have to ensure there are no future victims. 
Alcohol is a factor in half of all traffic deaths. But even when a drunk driver avoids death he faces severe consequences. An individual ar­rested for driving while intoxicated in Indiana does not get a slap on the wrist. The convicted driver will receive up to a one-year jail sen­tence, a maximum fine of $5,000, a six-month probationary license or license suspension period of not less than three months but not more than two years for one offense. Those who insist on taking life (theirs and others) into their own hands for a second time face even more punishment. 
The Indiana State Police brochures sum up the offense by saying "If you are arrested for driving while intoxicated, you do not receive a traffic ticket that you can pay by mail -you go to jail." Killing someone while driving can be called vehicular homicide, murder. 
Efforts by the police have intensified and such efforts should be com­mended. Stricter enforcement of laws and tougher punishments may seem harsh, but considering the consequences they are necessary. 
The programs are available at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, but we must realize the obligation not to shrug off phrases such as "I'm okay" or "I don't feel any effects" from people who have been drinking and who want to drive. 
In the end, we must police ourselves. We are educated adults and we must be more aware of the risk we place on other's lives, not to mention our own, when driving under the influence. 
Drinking and driving at the very least brings pain and suffering. Need we more proof than the three accidents this semester? 
-The Observer 
Over 500 letters to the editor and 300 col­umns appeared last year in Viewpoint. Join the growing number of people who feel their thoughts and opinions do make a difference. Write to P .O.Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
P.O.BoxQ 
Weak links in teaching should be eliminated 
Dear Editor: 
In today's society, most people have learned that in order to get a quality product, you most often have to pay a lot of money. As students at Notre Dame, we are paying a lot of money and in return expect to gain a quality education, mea:r,ing quality professors teaching quality courses. Wrong an­swer. 
I agree that on the whole Notre Dame is a quality school. However, as the old saying goes, "a chain is only as strong as its weakest link,'' and unfortunately, there are too many links about to break at this school. 
As a freshman, my Composition and Literature teacher was the worst. I was assured by a few lying upperclassmen that the caliber of the professors dramatically increases with upper level courses. Now, as a junior, I am again reminded of those freshman days in Composition and Literature. 
How can a university which prides itself on attracting quality students in­flict upon those same students deficient professors to teach courses which will serve as the foundations for our future careers? I fail to understand how the University can allow itself to become so lax in its concern for our education as to allow a few inexperienced and un­professional professors to taint the image of excellence it works so hard to evince. 
If this University's goal is truly to be viewed as the best Catholic university, then it needs to actually make itself the best before it worries about making others think it's the best. A good start would be to get rid of those weak links. 
Jeff Woode Keenan Hall 

The time has come for truth from the president 
When Richard Nixon was forced to resign from the presidency 13 years ago, many citizens lost faith in their governnment for the first time in the history of our country. Recently, a similar situation has arisen. 
Tony Lang 
guest column 
A f~w days ago, Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole called for a committee "patterned after the so-called Water­gate commission" in order to investi­gate the White House dealings in arms sales to Iran and money deals with the Nicaraguan rebels. Although it is highly unlikely that President Reagan will resign from office, this crisis does raise some serious questions about the honesty, or lack thereof, in the highest offices of our government. 
Mter word leaked out to the media that Robert McFarlane had been secretly dealing with the Iranians, public outrage began to mount. Adding to this problem, it was discovered that the money earned from these sales was diverted to a Swiss bank account for the Nicaraguan contra rebels. 
President Reagan took to his familiar medium, TV, on three different occa­sions in an attempt to quell national outrage over this situation. Yet, on these three different occasions, Reagan has yet to deliver a consistent story. At first he denied the dealings. Then he claimed the sales were only a sign of good faith to the Iranian moderates with whom they were dealing. Now he has joined the media bandwagon and has begun to demand the truth about the situation. 
At this point, the American public is left with two options. We can either believe that the jokes about Reagan's senility are really true or we can stop trusting our government. I realize that some matters must be kept from the public for national security reasons. 
However these occasions ought to be few and far between. Lately they seem to be heaped one on top of the other. 
A few weeks before this crisis, there were rumors of a misinformation cam­paign against the government of Libya, also organized by Robert McFarlane. Even before that, President Reagan claimed that he would not deal with the Russians in the Daniloff case and then went ahead and traded a convicted Rus­sian spy for the Newsweek journalist. This sudden rash of contradicting reports from the highest office in the country has to make one nervous. 
Steps must be taken immediately to rectify this situation. Reagan has al­ways been known as a strong leader when dealing with foreign countries; now he must show that toughness in accepting his mistakes and in dealing with his own office. If the president so believes in honesty as he says, now is the time for him to come forth with the truth. We have had enough of his cozy little speeches from the Oval Office tel­ling us that everything will be okay in the morning. The truth may hurt, but this is not a country of cowards. If our country has erred, we must admit to it. If we are not at fault and these deals have a purpose, now is the time for the public to know about it. 
Ronald Reagan's presidency has been a strong one. Although this strength has not always been justified, it has caused the American people to regain confidence in their country. As his term winds down, Reagan must not let this confidence wither away. He has created a positive aura around the of­fice of president, and this aura ought to be passed on to his successor. If he does not stand up now and take charge, this situation will not only harm Reagan's own reputation, but the reputation of the whole government and the trust of an entire nation. 
Tony Lang is enrolled in the Freshmen Year of Studies. 

General Board 
Ihe ObserYer 
Editor-in-Chief ........................................ Joe Murphy Production Manager ............................. Chris Bowler 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor .................................. Kevin Becker Photography Editor ................. , ........... James Carroll News Editor .... , .. , ...................................... Tripp Baltz Advertising Design Manager ... Mary Carol Creadon 
The Observer Is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer­Viewpoint Editor ................................... Scott Bearby Advertsing Manager ..................... Anne M. Culligan sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the Sports Editor .......... , ........................ Dennis Corrigan OCN Manager .............. , ............... Francis X. Malone policies of the administration of either Institution. The news Is reported as accurately Accent Editor ........................................Mary Jacoby Business Manager ...................... Eric Scheuermann and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of Saint Mary's Editor ........................... Margie Kersten Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Editor ..................................... Mark Pankowski Controller ............. , ........ , ................. Alex VonderHaar their authors. Column space Is available to all members of the community and the free Graphic Arts Manager ...................... Mark Weimholt expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1968 
-,
..----------------------------------------------------------------------­
Accent 
Monday, December 8, 1986 -page 7 

Santa considers selling out to Easter Bunny 
SANTA: Pedro, you moron! I told you to use Quaker State and you blew me off again! 
PEDRO: Look you grossly over­weight excuse--for a. hallowed tradition, your wife told me to use some el-cheapo brand, and the last time I disobeyed her she beat me with a rolling pin until my nose bled. You should give that woman a vallum prescrip­tion for Christmas. 
SANTA: I'm not going to stand here surrounded by tumbleweeds and listen to some­one three feet tall cut on my wife. I've seen you making passes at her anyway, so you must see something in her. 
PEDRO: Passes? At your wife? She's so ugly that she scares the polar bears away at home. 
SANTA: That's ltl I'm going to kill you right here and feed you to the lizards. 
BIFF: Boys, boys settle down. It's .3:48 on Christmas morning. We've got about four hours to get rid ofall these Cabbage Patch dolls on four continents. You've got a job to do, Claus. 
SANTA: Thisjob stinks. It's the worst I've ever had, and that's pretty bad when you consider the fact that I was once a gas station attendant at a Texaco station In Jersey City. 
PEDRO: At least you had ajob. I'm an Illegal allen, and we don't have any jobs at all In Mexico, just earthquakes. 
BIFF: Shut up cementhead, we're In Arizona which Is darn close to the Mexico border. 
PEDRO: Thanks for the geog­raphy lesson Blff. Blff, what a name for an elf. 
(Reindeer enter the scene.) 
you're at It call a tow truck and 
tell them that we've got a 150-ton 
sled we need to get towed! 
Hahahahaha! 
RUDOLPH: This guy Is going 
over the edge. Somebody call an 
ambulance. 
SANTA: I need a drink. 
PEDRO: Maybe If we lightened 
the load on the sled we could 
take off. 

BlFf: What are we going to give 
all the good boys and girls? 
PEDRO: Shut up Biff, 
Christmas Is dead. 
SANTA: He's right Christmas 
is dead as the great tradition It 
once was. It's overcommer­
clalized, overextended and a 
pain In the neck. 
PRANCER: No, you guys are wrong! Christmas Isn't dead. It's 
Christmas and go home. PEDRO: Good idea, we're mis­sing "Miami Vice." 
SANTA: You guys realize you don't get paid If you cut out on me, don't you? 
PEDRO: What do we get now, $2.86 an hour? What kind of slave labor Is that? 
SANTA: I quit, too, then! I can't take this anymore. You guys don't care about me, and you don't care about Christmas. I'm selling the rights to the Easter Bunny. 
Blff: The Easter Bunny? That guy is tied In with the mob. Some of his workers screwed up, and they ended up buried In licorice 
jelly beans. What a way to go, yeccch! SANTA: At least his help does what they're told to. 
VIXEN: I'm going to hitch a ride from a truck. I'm tired of stand­Ing out here twiddling my thumbs. 
PEDRO: You don't have any thumbs. You have hoofs remem­ber? I think I'll go with you, though, because fat boy here seems to be In a perpetual bad mood. 
Blff: I'm going over to that truck stop to get some breakfast. Beep me on the beeper if you ever get this stupid thing fixed. 
(Gradually all of Santa's hel­pers drift off into the night. He 
\ \ 
&.fco:M 

Is left sitting In his sleigh listen­Ing to the radio.) 
SANTA: I think I'll go back to school, get my degree, maybe open a little pizza place. 
(A little boy gets outofa station wagon and approaches Santa.) LITTLE BOY: Santa? Are you Santa? SANTA: No I'm uh... yeah, I'm Santa. Whaddya want kid? LITTLE BOY: I want a candy cane. 
SANTA: Sorry kid, all I got Is cigarettes, but you could come along with me and help me deliver this stuff. Ever driven a sled? 
LITTLE BOY: No, sir. I'm only eight. Anyway, you're supposed to have reindeer driving your sled. 
SANTA: Yeah, well they skipped out. Say, why don't you run over to that truck stop and get me a quart of Quaker State? 
Before and after in this week's soaps 
ALL MY CHILDREN: Jeremy fumed that Erica announced she loved Matt and Intended to marry him. Mark disap­peared with Erica's money. Tad tried to get Hilary to come to his new office. Donna told a perplexed Jeremy that Natalie got a job offer from a man who was supposed to be dead. Coming: Erica decides she must "deal" with Matty. 
ANOTHER WORLD: Vince was accused of throwing a knife at Reginald. Catlin told Brittany he loves her. Peter, afraid that secrets will come out at the trial, tried to drop charges against Brittany but the D.A. refused. Rachel threatened to have Mitch ar­rested for kidnapping Mat­thew. Coming: Peter tries to manipulate the trial. 
AS THE WORLD TURNS: Tom continued to find It diffi­cult to accept the loss of the baby. Barbara panicked at the Idea oflettlngJames back Into their son's life. John worried about Margo's recuperation. Coming: Betsy faces another change In her life. 
CAPITOL: Angelica con­fronted Trey abut his feelings. 
D.J. dropped another bombshell. Kelly's physical status reached a critical point. Scotty's future was in doubt. Coming: Myrna takes advan­tage of what she thinks is an opportunity. 
DALLAS: Parmalee reluc­tantly agreed to take a lie de­tector test to prove he's the real owner of Ewing Oil. Clayton made a disturbing decision while Miss Ellie planned to meet In secret with Wes. Jenna was upset by Pam's suggestion. 
DAYS Of OUR LIVES: Kayla . managed to sneak the emeralds Into Chris' pockets before they were found by the Customs agents. Ivy com­forted Mike who was unable to accept Robin's marriage to Mitch. Barbara fretted about whether or not to tell Paul that Teddy is really Andrew. Derek was turned In for doing drugs. Coming: Roman must face a 
possible tragic truth. 
FALCON CREST: Cole took out his unhappiness on his family. Vicki grew closer to Dann Fixx. With paternity tests 
inconclusive,  Maggie's  fears  
Increased.  Chase  and  Tony  
discovered  their  vines  were  

withering. Meredith started her seduction of Richard Channing. Coming: Maggie's decision about the baby causes problems. 
GENERAL HOSPITAL: Ram­sey was shocked when he was exposed as a criminal. Duke took Ramsey's bullet. which was meant for Scorpio, and was paralyzed from the waist down. ACATscan revealed the bullet had not severed the spine. Tony prepared to oper­ate on Duke but offered no hope for his being able to walk again. Coming: Bobble, Jake and Ted investigated Lucy's sudden wealth. 
GUIDING LIGHT: Chelsea's suit forced Rick Into reevalua­tion of his career. Reva and Josh found themselves reliv­ing past emotions. Alan's pur­pose for going to San Rlos was fulfilled. Coming: Simon makes an Important dis­covery. 
KNOTS LANDING: Peter's presence on the cliff at the time of Jill's accident was noted by a witness. Jan told Ben he can be free of her If he got the public to question Peter's credibility. Val's new secretary raised Ben's suspicions. Coming: Karen and Mack learn more about Paige's Intentions. 
LOVING: Ava was furious to learn Judd was leaving town without her and that Curtis proposed to Lottie. Rick refused to tell Harry why he wants to use Steve's garage. Trlsha was angry that no one told her about Jack's tumor. Shana told Jim they shouldn't wed outside the church. Com· lng: Ava has a new revelation. 
ONE LIFE TO LIVE: Tina was rescued. Asa was furious to learn Devli's Claw was blown up. Vickie was arrested for kidnapping Jessica and ac­cused Clint of not trusting her. Clint and Tom said she could prove VIcki was Innocent. Coming: Alison's testimony threatens Marla who Is forced to make a decision about her. 
RYAN'S HOPE: Maggie ac­cused Delia ofswitching neck­laces. Dakota accused Roger of having an affair with Uelia. Lizzie and Maeve became close. The judge denied ball for John. Coming: Slobhan faces a new threat. 
SANTA BARBARA: Caroline made plans to visit Chino Prison. Cruz shot Danny who was trying to rob a store for drug money. Pearl and Brian tried to patch up their differ­ences. Cruz refused to recon­cile with Eden. Coming: Julia doesn't keep a promise to Mason. 
S[ARCH FOR TOMORROW: Malcolm was crushed to hear the Judge had kept Kate from him. Llza told Sunny she must level with Bela that she's not pregnant. Kat and Quinn gave Into their feelings for one an­other. Jerry told the Judge he'd found a body In the McCleary basement. Coming: The Judge must deal with a new threat. 
THE YOUNG 8t THE REST­LESS: Terry told Danny they'll have to spend lots of time to­gether getting his album promoted. Phillips told Jill he wanted to be adopted by Kay. Lauren couldn't stop the mag· azine from running Paul's nude centerfold. Ashley con­tinued to hear a baby's cries In her head. Coming: Nikki and VIctor face a crisis. 
1986, McNaught Syndicate 

THE SCENE: Somewhere on In­terstate 89 In the Arizona Desert THE DATE: December 25, 1986 
THE TIME: .3:47a.m. 
THE SITUATION: Santa and his Incompetent elves, Pedro and Blff, are stuck In the Arizona des­ert with a bunch of overweight reindeer and 25 tons of Cabbage Patch dolls. 
Krls Murphy 
Altered 
BUTZEN: What seems to be the problem here? 
SANTA: The problem here Is that I hate my job, my help is Incompetent and ugly and you're standing here asking stupid questions. 
RUDOLPH: Watch that stuff Bozo, or we'll call the civil liberties union. 
SANTA: Go ahead, and while 

\ \ 

\
\ 

still alive In the hearts of those who remember how It once was, how .amllles and friends came together at this time of year to celebrate togetherness and com­passion. We're an Integral part of the season and we have a re­sponsibility to fuiHII. Let's gal 
(He goes running off into the desert at top speed, but he trips over a cactus and falls down. He lies In the sand singing "Sliver Bells.") 
PEDRO: That guy is Intense. I think he used to do a lot of diet pills and they fried his mind. 
SANTA: Poor kid. He used to be so good, too. VIXEN: Can I have his spot In the harness? DONNER: Can I have his jingle bells? 
SANTA: You guys disgust me. Get back In harness and shut up. 
BIFF: I'm cold. Let's bag 
-~------------~--~ ~-­
.. 
The Observer Monday, December 8, 1986 -page 8 
Sports Briefs 
The SMC varsity softball team will have a meeting tonight at 7 at Angela Athletic Facility for all those inter­ested in playing softball. For more information contact Amy (284-5444) or Trish (284-5406). -The Observer 
The Off-Campus hockey team will hold a practice tonight at 7at Howard Park. Further information may be obtained by contacting John Klinge or Mike Breslin at 287-6622. ­The Observer 
The ND rowing club's men's varsity and novice teams will have practice today at 5 p.m. on the ACC concourse. 
The Observer 

Dallas Cowboys Head Coach Tom Landry was the target of several telephone threats Sunday night and, flanked by security guards, left the field for several minutes during Dallas' NFL game with the Los Angeles Rams. Landry, the only coach the team has had in 27 years, returned to the field wearing what appeared to be a protective vest underneath his sweater. -Associated Press 
Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. The Observer 
Women 
continuedfrom page 12 
vage some kind of victory from the trip fell through. 
An eight-point lead at 14-6 was the best position the Irish found themselves in, as Colorado rallied to take a 37-27 halftime lead and never let the margin slip below 10 the rest of the way. 
Gretchen DeWitte led Colorado with 16 points and three other players hit double­digits for the winners. 

Bunek once again led Notre Dame with 13 points, while Toney had 12 and Gavin added 10. 
The 0-3 Irish take on Indiana at the ACC Tuesday night, as they continue looking for their first win of the season. 
IRISH ITEMS Mary Gavin's five assists against the Lady Longhorns established her as Notre Dame's all-time leader in that category. Gavin surpassed Laura Dougherty's mark of 326, and three more against Colorado now moves her total to 332. 
Testaverde fulfills father's dream, runs away with Reisman Trophy 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The building stands alongside the Downtown Athletic Club, a few hundred yards from the Hudson River and not much farther from the Statue of Liberty, almost as far south in Manhattan as you can go. 
Big AI Testaverde helped build the building. 
Even then, some 14 years ago, when he was the cement mason foreman for the building that stands alongside the Downtown Athletic Club, AI Testaverde knew all about the DAC, the place that awards the Heisman Trophy each year to the nation's outstanding col­legiate football player. 
"I used to eat my lunch on the doorsteps and I used to pray that some day I'm gonna walk in the door," he said. 
It was windy and cold Satur­day night when Al Testaverde finally made it inside the Down­town Athletic Club. So did his 23-year-old son, Vinny, the No. 1-ranked University of Miami's record-setting quarterback and winner of the 52nd annual Heisman Trophy. 
"We dreamed it together, we did it together and I'm proud to say we won it together," Vinny Testa verde said. He was standing at a battery of microp­hones in a roomful of media but, he was talking to his fa­ther. 
Vinny Testaverde, the 6-foot­5 senior who led the nation in passing efficiency, won the Heisman by 1,541 points over Temple running back Pa•d Pal­mer, the country's top rusher. 
The only greater margin was the 1,750 points by which South­ern Cal tailback O.J. simpson defeated Purdue halfback Leroy Keyes in 1968. 
In voting by members of the media across the country, Tes­taverde received 678 first-place votes and 2,213 points, tab­ulated on a 3-2-1 point system. Testaverde also received 76 second-place and 27 third-place votes and won each of the six Heisman regions -east, Mid-Atlantic, South, Southwest, Midwest and Far West. 
Palmer received 28 first­place votes and 672 points. Mic­higan quarterback Jim Har­baugh finished third with 25 first-place votes and 458 points. 
The rest of the top 10 finis­hers were Oklahoma linebacker Brian Bosworth (9 firsts, 395 points), Holy Cross tailback-defensive back Gordie Lockbaum (32-242), Auburn tailback Brent Fullwood (4­129), Alabama linebacker Cor­nelius Bennett (3-96), Penn State tailback D.J. Dozier (0­77), Fresno State quarterback Kevin Sweeney ( 6-73), and Ohio State linebacker Chris Spiel­man (5-60). 
Testaverde started playing 
organized football when he was 
6 with the Franklin Square 
(N.Y.) Warriors in a Long Is­
land peewee league. 
"He was always one cut 
above the next player,'' said Al 
Testaverde, who put a football 
in Vinny's bassinet when his 
son was five days old. 

Lendl, Becker to square off in final 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Putting their power games on display, top­seeded Ivan Lendl and No. 2 Boris Becker blasted their way Sunday night into the champi­onship match of the $500,000 Masters tennis tournament. 
Becker, who has been chal­lenging Lendl as the world's No.1 player, stopped Sweden's Stefan Edberg 6-4, 6-4 after Lendl ousted another Swede, third-seeded Mats Wilander, 6­4, 6-2. 
Lend!, the Czechoslovakian right-hander who won the French Open and the U.S. open, will meet Becker, the 19-year­old Wimbledon winner, Mon­day night to decide this season­ending tournament title. Monday's winner will collect $100,000. 
"If I play well, I should win fairly easy,'' Lend! said of Mon­day's final. In their four previ­ous meetings this year, Lendl has won just once, in the final at Stratton Mountain, Vt. 
Becker has beaten Lendl on carpet in Chicago, on grass at Wimbledon and on an indoor hard court at Sydney, Australia, all of their meetings coming in the finals. 
Monday's match at Madison Square Garden will be con­tested on carpet. 

The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Co!lge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. untiiJ p.m., Monday through Fnday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES Wordprocessing-Typing 272-8827  LOST: Long gray tweed London Fog OVERCOAT at Morris Park Country Club during Holy Cross formal. Important keys in pocket. Call Frank lzzo at £4194. LOST: a GUCCI KEY RING with keys  PART TIME GRAPHIC ARTIST WANTED. CALL 259-8822 OR 259­3187. AIDE NEEDED TO MINN 121'17 JAY 277­8305  Available 2nd semester & fall '87 4Br house furnished, secure 4-5 stu­dents,$440.0C»nonth You pay utilities, call Geoff or Mery 288-7276 HARD ROCK CAFE NDSMC  SHAKESPEARE CLUB MEMBERS! WE'RE HAVING A XMAS PARTY-WED .. DEC.10. SEE CONNIE IN THE EN­GLISH OFFICE FOR MORE DETAILS! HEY JUDE, DON T LET ME DOWN.  SENIOR CLASS MASS Saturday. December 13 with "MONK" MALLOY celebrating. Sorin Hall Chapel. Time t.b~a. After mass. stay and meet the new University President­elect over eggnog and cookies  
PRO-TYPE Quality work, reasonable $. 277-5833  numbered 243. H found please call x3736. Please return. LOST: THICK GOLD BANGLE  WANTED: VHS tape of NO-USC game. Will pay $20. Call Andy at 283·1972.  SWEATSHIRTS NOW AVAILABLEII! GREAT FOR X-MAS GIFTS $16.00 ea. or 2 for $30.00  TAKE A SAD SONG AND MAKE IT BRIGHTER. ................................................................ THANK YOU ST. JUDE  ............................................................... Who were those two guys on the cover of Scholastic? The Shadow knows~  
BRACELET  WITH  ENGRAVED  CALL 277-2766 AFTER 5:00 PM  
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL DESIGN. POSSIBLY LOST AT MRS. COKER, 233·7009. BRIDGET'S OR MORRISSEY. IF FOR SALE FOUND PLEASE CALL 284-4351. typing 277-9649 ................................................................· LOST; WED. NIGHT,1V4, AT FUTONS: 100% cotton sleep mattresses, WOROPAOCESSING BRIDGET$, A LARGE BLACK SCARF hardwood convertible frames and acces­277·8131 WWHITE FLECKS. PLEASE CALL sories. FUTONS NATURALLY 232 South MEGAN 1242 TO RETURN IT AND I Michigan St. 233-8176. WILL LOVE YOU FOREVER. SELL YOUR TEXT-BOOKS FOR $$$$$ 2 And. lrip tix SB to Orlando PANDORA'S BOOKS, al our NEW loca­FOUND: Walkman in O'Shag Computer Dec. 20-0ec. 29. $550. 288-5535. tion: 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave. Lab before Turkey break.To claim, call ph. 233-2342 OPEN 7 days a week, 10­233-2235. 530 HELP, I have to pay Santa ... Piease buy FOUND: CAMERA ON VENDING MAC­COMPUTER MAC 128, printer Access. LEE,S BAR-B-QUE is accepting applica­HINES IN NIEUWLANO SCIENCE. Chris 289-3499. tions lor kitchen and bar help. Hr. rate is CALL NIKKI IN CHEMISTRY DEPT. 239· $3.50 per hr Tel 232·9311 Ask for Jah 7058. Light. ................................................................ I TICKETS ................................................................ \ LOST/FOUND I I FOR RENT I I NEED INDIANA. N CAROLINA • TIXS.272-6306 APARTMENT FOR RENT FROM LOST: ADD A BEAD NECK­DECEMBER TO FIRST OF MARCH. Need GAs lorN. Carolina and Duke. Call LACE...SOMEWHEAE BETWEEN CALL 1·982-6483 FOR DETAILS. ASK Bill,2008 WALSH AND SO. DINING HALL OR IN FOR CHAD. DINING HALL PLEASE CALL I need 2 GA's for N. Carolina. Call Mar­MAUREEN M. AT 2612. THANK YOUI FURNISHED HOUSES FOR NEXT garet X1293 SCHOOL YEAR 6838889 endad HELPII I lost my eye-glasses on Nov. 26 just before break. ~ you found them ROOM FOR ONE PERSON IN QUIET please call me at 287-4831. They were NON-SMOKING 3BR HOME WITH 2 PERSONALSin a black case and were an amber men's GR. STUDENTS $125 MONTH¢ UTIL. style. 2 MI. FROM NO. CALL DAVID, 232­8327, EARLY OR LATE. OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR,PLEASE ......... PLEASE .......... PLEASE .... . CAARYOUTT03A.M. U.S. 31 N.,ONETO WHOEVER TOOK MY GREY BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  TWO RIDERS GOING EAST ALONG i· 90 FROM CLEVELAND TO BUFFALO AGAIN. IF YOU CAN BRING US ALONG PLEASE CALL KEVIN X2590. CAN LEAVE ANYTIME AFTER 4 PM FRIDAY AND MONEY NO PROBLEM. RIDER NEEDED TO SHARE EXP. TO DENVER, COLO. LEAVING DEC~ 19TH RETURN JAN. 3AD. PHONE 683-7837 D.C. CLUB BUS SIGNUPS Wednelldey Dec. 10 from 6-7 P.M. L8fortune Lobby $75 Roundtrip For queatlona cell Mike et 3380 YELLOW SUBMARINE PRE-FINAL SPECIAL: Buy 2 sandwiches and get 1 free. Delivery till midnight, Fri-Sat till1am. ori~i~ii.wEs;:··;~;·x~;;;;;;;·i·~~;d·.-~-~~;j~ to L.A. II KATH 272·8919. CAPT.AVENGEA-NICE RED SUIT!HAPPY 22 K.T.!-XOXO MON ATIENTION ATIENTION ATTENTION BCAF TALENT SHOW IS COMING GET THOSE ACTS READY TO GOIII TRYOUTS IN WASHINGTON HALL  DECEMBER, DECEMBER .............................................................1 .. Eric Adams, lhe socially desperate Pre­Med still needs a date. C'mon girls here is your chance fo gel a doctor before he goes to Med school and realizes that all the nurses are after him and his big bucks. Just call 4506 to ensure your fin­ancial future. ................................................................ lnterhall Hockey: Pangborn 0, Alumni 0. Next time lets try playing with impartial refs. What a crazy idea, an evenly referred game, maybe its an idea before its time, but lets try it anyway. Kathleen Walsh, eight hours of more fun than we are allowed around here. Can you handle it? I am willing, ready and able. Be ready to break the record soon. PHILADELPHIA CLUB CHRISTMAS BUS SIGNUPS Tues. Dec.9, 7-8pm in basement Lafortune. Roundtrip $80, bring cash or check to signups. Good Luck on your finals, HINKI I didn't mean to make things worse. I still love you and Jacl< (and elways will!) N.Q. Hi Lise (yeah, you in London) Good luck on Finals end enjoy your last week in Europel See ya soon, LISA  Do Communism and Christianity mix? Come find out at the last meeting of the Little Stevie Worland ian club, Friday Dec. 12 at 3:25p.m. Workers (and Wor· land fans) of the world unite! Merry Christmas to John Zeman! Merry Christmas to Blake Schomas! Merry Christmas to Lauri Konwinski! Merry Christmas to Laurine Megnal N.D~ students-THINK SUMMER If you are considering applying lor a Summer Service Project-or want more information about SSP. stop by the Center For Social Concerns and talk to Sue Cunningham. Students going off campus for spring se· master stop in before leaving campus lor Christmas break. application will be avail· able January 12. TO THE "SPECK" ANSWERED MY PERSONAL· MY MUD PIT OR YOURS? JANE BAILEY & PHIL-DOG Just how brg WAS that apple sour? Do you remember? Does anybody remem­ber? We know we always will!l -The Kids  
JANSPORT BACKPACK FROM SOUTH DINING HALL ON MONDAY NIGHT: you can keep the textbook, the calculator, and the UCLA T-shirts, but PLEASE return the mac. disk in the front pocket. it has my entire life on it. just leave it where you found it. PLEASE ..... . LOST: Canon Snappy 50 Camera at SMC Frosh. Form. Contents great sent. value. $$ 284·4196 $$  WANTED PREGNANT? Or know someone who is? Warm, well-educated, happy couple, married 11 years, unable to have children of our own, want to share our loving home with a baby. Cont:dent;alily assured: medical expenses psld. Call 317·257· 3669.  ................................................................ SELL YOUR TEXT-BOOKS FOR $$$$111 PANDORA'S BOOKS, at our NEW loca­tion: 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233-2342 OPEN 7 days a week, 10­530 ................................................................ Going to Tampa for Christmas break? I need riders to keep me com­pany. Ir you want a ride, just call Suaan at 2815.  JAN-16,17 8·10 PM.'CONTACT CARLA OR MONIQUE AT 283-2706 GET READYIIIII THANK YOU, ST. JUDE GOING EAST for X-mas & need a ride to CT (New Canaan area)? I'm leaving Dec. 16 after fOam or early am Dec 17­ca\1 Carrie at SMC4288 ASAP  SENIORSII! SENIOR CLASS COCKTAIL PARTY Tuesday, December 9 from 9pm to 1 am, with FREE BEVERAGES from 9-11pml Semi-formal attire,please. $4.00 admis­sion. Featuring D.J., CHAMPAGNE FOUNTAIN, HORS D'OEUVRE$, and, of course SANTA CLAUSIII (misUetoe,tool)  BAM-BAM We hear that Pebbles likes to parly in BEDrock. Don't let Wilma and Fred lind out. YABBA-OABBA·DOIII  

The Observer Monday, December 8, 1986 -page 9 

The Observer /File Photo 

Beverly Williams (10) and the Texas Lady Longhorns handed the Notre Dame women's basketball team one of two losses in the Texas Classic Tournament this weekend. Marty Strasen has the story of the Irish woes, beginning on the back page. 

.',-!-'" ,· 
!i ~\ I 'I 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME A CONTEMIJORARY PORTRAIT 

I ­

,,, 
,, ~.... 
• If • r ~ 'J I"' r, tJ'' 
.· ... ­
' 'f' 
ROBERT P. SCHMUHL 
$16.95, cloth 


1tt'I~N~~~ 
I I 
Women's swim team 'passes tests,' wins pair of events over weekend 
By THERESA KELLY Sports Writer 
Coach Tim Welsh called last weekend's swim meets "final exams" for the Notre Dame women's swim team. 
It passed. 

In fact, the scores probably would put some of the swim­mers on the Dean's List. 
Friday, the women beat Mankato State, 118-93. The Irish won seven of nine individ­ual swimming events, plus the 200 medley relay. Senior Monica Walker led the Irish with victories in the 1,000 frees­tyle, with a time of 11:39.08 and the 200 butterfly (2:22.69). 
Other standouts for Welsh's team included Kathy Quirk, a freshman who won the 200 freestyle in 2:00.75, and class­mate Annette Quill, who won the 50 freestyle in 25.72. Junior Nancy O'Brien won the 200 backstroke in 2:23.15. Irish swimmer Sarah Vakkur won the 500 freestyle in 5:46.56, and Susanne Devine, a senior, won the 200 individual medley in 2:17.26. 
Quirk and Devine teamed with Betsy Baker and Barbara Byrne to win the 200 medley relay for Notre Dame with a time of 1:57.29. 
The women were shut out of victory in both the one and three-meter diving events by Mankato State's Annie Eggert. The visitors were only able to win three other events. 
On Saturday, the Irish wo­men posted an impressive vic­tory while hosting the Irish In­vitational, scoring 293 112 points to beat the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee (184) and Saint Mary's (20 112). 
Notr~ Dame was led by junior Amy Darlington's two first-place and two second­place finishes. Darlington won the 500 freestyle in 5:31.62 and the 400 individual medley in 
4:46.64. She placed second in the 1,650 freestyle and the 200 individual medley. 
Quirk was victorious in the 
100 freestyle (55.27), placed 
second in the 100 backstroke 
and third in the 100 butterfly. 
Devine won the 1,650 freestyle 
in 18:01.17 and placed second 
in the 100 breaststroke and the 
100 butterfly. 
The high margin of victory (109 112 points over Wisconsin­Milwaukee) is evidence of the strength and depth of the Notre Dame women's team. 
The team will take a break until January 9 and 10, when they travel to LaSalle and Vil­lanova for a tough pair of consecutive-day meets. 

Knight, Seaver remain unsigned 
Associated Press 

HOLLYWOOD, Fla. -The fu­tures of World Series Most Valuable Player Ray Knight and 300-game winner Tom Seaver remained in doubt Sun­day, while the New York Yankees and California Angels took steps to retain key free agents for next season. 
Clubs had until midnight to offer salary arbitration to their free agents, or lose the right to sign them until May. 
The Yankees averted that possibility, at least for now, by offering arbitration to co­captains Ron Guidry and Willie Randolph, along with three 
other  players.  The  Angels  
made  the  same  move  with  
Doug  DeCinces,  Brian  

Downing and Bob Boone. 
But Knight, of the New York Mets, and Seaver, of the Boston Red Sox, had not been offered arbitration as of Sunday after­noon, although negotiating con­tinued. Many saw the last­minute manuevering as a form of hardball brinksmanship. 
"We don't want to go to ar­bitration," Yankees General Manager Woody Woodward said in announcing the team had offered it to Guidry, Ran­dolph, Claudell Washington, Tommy John and Gary Roenicke. 
"But we felt there was enough of a chance to settle, particularly the Guidry and Randolph contracts," he said. "We needed to buy that extra time. We felt there was enough done not to close it out at mid­night." 
Woodward said the Yankees would not offer arbitration to pitcher Britt Burns, who missed the entire 1986 season with injuries, or reserve in­fielder Mike Fischlin. 
ATTENTION ALL JUNIORS:
t 
t

Ifyour parents DID NOT receive JPWfinformation over Thanksgiving Break, please leave your name, home address,fcampus address and campus phone number J at the Student Activities Office by Thurs, fDec. 11 at 4:30p.m. J 
tIfwe do not get your name and address, your 1 parents will not receive the proper information. t
-

Mike Port, general manager of the American League West champion California, said the Angels offered arbitration to DeCinces, Boone and Downing because "it extends our rights and privileges to continue to reach a settlement." 
"Prepatory work has already been done regarding signing our free agents," Port said. · 
Recently, the Angels said a contract would not be offered to free agent Reggie Jackson. 
Free agents have until Dec. 19 to accept or reject arbitra­tion. If they refuse, their teams must sign them by Jan. 8 or lose that right until May 1. 
Hockey 
continuedfrom page 12 
dominated a scoreless first per­iod in front of a small crowd. 
Playing the last two periods without Coach Smith, who was ejected from the game after ar­guing with an official, Tom Smith (Lefty's son) started the scoring for the Irish on a power-play goal 3: 45 into the second period. 
Just 10 seconds later, Joe Bur­ton tied the score at 1-1. Less than two minutes after that, Rick Osburn gave the Wolves a 2-1 lead, and it looked as if Dearborn was ready to break it open. 
Hoping to keep its lead, Dear­born continued the physical play it used all weekend. The Wolves' rough style resulted in several confrontations and 11 penalties being called on each team Saturday night. 
"It was very physical. They've been that way every time we1 Ve played them," said Smith. "We maintained our composure pretty well consid­ering everything." Fresh­man Bruce Guay tied the game at 3-3later in the second period, and the Irish grabbed the lead back when Kuehl scored 5:39 into the third period. But the Irish could not take advantage of three power-play opportuni­ties later in the period, which proved costly. With 6:44 left in the game, Tim Osburn got the tying goal for Dearborn, and Joe Mocnik won the game for the Wolves 2:27 into the over­time period. 

The Observer Monday, December 8, 1986 -page 10 
Giants top Redskins; Colts finally win one 

Associated Press 
The New York Giants moved into position to play at home for the next month, including all of their NFL playoff games, and the Indianapolis Colts moved into the winner's circle for the first time Sunday. 
The Giants, led by a big-play defense that intercepted six Jay Schroeder passes and sacked j the Washington quarterback1 four times, won the NFC east 
< 
showdown with a 24-14 victory over the Redskins. It was Washington's first loss at home this season, dropping it to 11-3, one game behind the Giants. New York has won seven con­secutive games, it longest win­ning streak since 1962, and needs to beat either St. Louis or Green Bay -who are a com­bined 6-21-1 -to clinch its first title in 23 years.
_JJ The Colts finally won their -APPhoto first game of the season under 
Richard Dent of the Chicago Bears brings down caneers for a second time Sunday afternoon. new Coach Ron Meyer. Eugene 
Tampa Bay quarterback Steve Young in a game See related story at right. Daniel returned a blocked punt 
earlier this season. The Bears dumped the Buc-13 yards for a touchdown with 20 seconds remaining for a 28­
players exactly where he wanted them -like a chess
Irish 
master. In the second half it was
continuedfrom page 12 
more of the same. The clock to the success of the Irish. kept runnig down and the Irish First, the inside play of Scott kept hitting. Paddock, Gary Voce and Tony "Our shot selection was Jackson. While only Jackson got good, and that's why we shot his name in the scoring column, so well for the game," said the threesome played tough Phelps. "We shot 66 percent for post defense, denying the the game, and that's just in­Cougars' inside game. credible. We just got away with 
Second was BYU's poor first­it." half shooting. The Cougars could muster but .286 from the IRISH ITEMS -Along with field in the first half (6-of-21 his 22 points and eight assists, shooting). Third, of course, Rivers also led the team with was Notre Dame's ability to hit eight rebounds and now stands the outside shot. as the team's leading 
"You say to me that Rivers rebounder. "That's what was the most valuable player amazes you about the kid," tonight, but the three guys who said Phelps. "You tell him, won the game for us tonight as 'David, you've got to become a far as I'm concerned were Pad­rebounder this year,' and he's dock, Voce and Tony Jackson," our leading rebounder with said Phelps. "They didn't Royal out." crack inside, and that was what was important for us to win this game." 
The Irish jumped out to a 19-9 lead with 8: 13 left in the first half. The rebounding of Voce and Paddock, making his first start in an Irish uniform, proved crucial in keeping the Cougar transition game on the shelf. The Irish had 15-7 rebound margin for the half and 26-16 for the game. 
With the Cougars unable to score, the Irish could afford to be even more patient on of­fense. Phelps could be heard tellig his team to bring the ball out higher and positioning his 
Saturday night's results 
23 victory over the Atlanta Fal­
Notre Dame 62. BYU 46 
cons.
BYU (46) M FG·A FT-A R F P Other upsets on Sunday in-Chatman 31 5-9 2-2 0 
2 12 eluded Cincinnati taking New 
Stephenson 11 0-1 0-0 0 
~ ~ England 31-7 and Kansas City
Gneiting 9 0-1 0-0 3 Taylor 22 4-7 1-2 2 4 g over Denver 37-10. 
Capener 30 1-6 1-2 1 4 3 Also, it was San Francisco 24,
Wade 9 1-1 0-0 0 
~ ~ the New York Jets 10;
Haws 21 1-3 0-0 2 Call 2 0-0 0-0 0 o o Cleveland 21, Buffalo 17; Min-
Humphreys 13 1-3 2-2 2 o 4 nesota 32, Green Bay 6;
Smith 25 3-5 0-0 2 
~ ~ Chicago 48, Tampa Bay 14; Pit-
Usevitch 27 1-7 5-5 1 200 17-43 11-13 13 15 45 tsburgh 27, Detroit 17; Miami 
31, New Orleans 27; San Diego 
FG Pet. -.395. FT Pet. -.846. Team rebounds -3. Turnovers -17. Assists -7 (Capener 3). Three-point goals-Capener 1. Technicals -none. 
Notre Dame (62) 
M FG·A FT·A R F P Stevenson ·37 5-7 3-4 4 1 13 Paddock 26 0-1 0-0 2 4 0 Voce 35 0-0 0-0 5 3 o Rivers 40 9-16 4-4 8 0 22 Hicks 40 7-10 3-6 4 2 17 Connor 16 3-3 2-2 1 2 8 Jackson, T. 6 1-1 0-0 0 1 2 
200 25-38 12-16 24 13 62 
FG Pet. -.658. FT Pet. -.750. Team rebounds -2. Turnovers -17. Assists -15 
(Rivers 8). Technicals -none. 
NEED GIFT IDEAS 

§]]]ICIIlll!ar!lkl!le[IM!!Iemoria1 
EDUtAlii:WH. MEDIA
~HE SNJTE MUSEUM SHOP 
Dedication 
HAS THE ANSWER 

VHS or Beto vi deotopes of Moss 
Engagement Calendars 

Celebroted by Fother Hesburgh 
Pottery 
T-Shirts 

Ploce your Christmos orders 
Christmas cards 

now -$35 per tope 
Open Mon.·Sat. 1 0:00·4:00 

Educotionol Medio room 9 CCE 
Sun. 1 :00-4:00 
27, Houston 0; and St. Louis 10, Philadelphia 10. In a night game, the Los An­geles Rams beat Dallas, 29-10. 
Giants 24, Redskins 14 
The Giants and Bears are the only 12-2 teams in the league, but the Giants hold the tie­breaker edge on the Bears be­cause of a better conference record. 
"A lot of people think this race is over but it is not over," Giants Coach Bill Parcells said. "I thought it would go 16 weeks and now that makes next week's game just that much more important for us because we have a chance to win the championship next week." 
Colts 28, Falcons 23 
The Colts got lucky just before the blocked punt and on the last play of the game. 
One play before Tate Randle's block of Rick Donnel­ly's kick, Donnelly had been roughed by Randle while trying to punt from the Indianapolis 
43. But a personal foul infrac­tion against Atlanta's Aaron Brown caused offsetting penalties. 
Randle then broke through with 30 seconds remaining, and Daniel picked up the ball and ran in for the score. 
The Colts, 1-13, were within one loss of tying the NFL record for consecutive defeats in one season. 
' 

STUDENT HAIRCARE SAVINGS! 
,-------COUPON SAVINGS-------.
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT : 
I Reg. $8 Mast~~~ :
L-------------------1
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT 1 
; Reg. $8 Ma~~~ ~ 
r-------------------1
:s5OFF ANY PERM : 
I Ma~~ I ~------------------~ 
MasterCuts 
family haircutters UNIVERSITY PARK MALL 277-3770 

-~--------------·-------------­
'JI['~4()[~~------------------------------------------------------•M•o•n•da•y•'•D•e•ce•m•b•er
..8,•1•00•6•--p.ag•e•1-1 


Bloom County 

Beer Nuts 

Campus 
9:30a.m.-4:30p.m.: Annual sale of UNI­CEF cards, calendars and gifts sponsored by the Ladies of Notre Dame and St. Mary's, Memorial Library concourse 
12:00-1:15 p.m.: Economics Dept. Devel­opment Workshop with Rene Cortazar, Santiago, Chile, and Kellogg Institute Fel­low, Library Lounge 
4:00 -5:00 p.m.: SMC Counseling and Career Development presents a "Test­Taking skills and Exam-Panic Workshop.", 304 Haggar College Center 
7:00p.m.: Senior Class Mass, Feast of the Immaculate Conception, Father Peter Rocca, Log Chapel 
7:00p.m.: Monday Night Film Series I, "Night of the Living Dead," 1968, 91 
Thanks to you ... it works ... 
for 

Women's Care Center I Pregnancy Help Center 
• fnll Pregnancy Tests 
• fnll Confidential, lndlvldulll &Couple Counseling ~~ 
• Fn11 RefeiTII To Support Agencies 
• 
Confldertlal c... 

• 
Medical Referral Service 


• Post Abortion Counseling ~ 
*24 HOUR HEt.Pt.H*

234-0363 
One ... From The Notre Dame Campua

417N. ST. LOUIS BLVD. 

ALL •
OFUS 
UnitedWay 

Berke Breathed 
Far Side Gary Larson 
Mark Williams 
minutes, Black & White, George Romera, USA, Annenberg Auditorium 
9:00p.m.: Monday Night Film Series II "History is Made at Night," 1937, Black & white, 87 minutes, Frank Borzage, USA, Annenberg Auditorium 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Veal Parmesan 
Chicken turnover 
Sloppy Joe Sandwich 
Capri Blend Vegetables 
Portuguese Sweet Bread 

"I'm sorry, ma'am, but his license does check out and, after all, your husband was In season. Remember, just because he knocks doesn't mean you have to let him ln." 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 
1 Kismet  
5 Use a besom  
10 Grouch  
14 River to the  
Caspian  
15 lively dance  
16 Company ID  
17 Air drill  
19 Type type:  
abbr.  
20 Printing fluid  
21 Poems  
22 Furnish  
24 Portent  
25 Music symbol  
26 Degrades  
29 Insignificant  
thing  
33 Reagan or  
Kissinger  
34 Sink into  
apathy  
35 Celebes ox  
36 Numerical  
prefix  
37 Wretched hut  
38 Gists 39 Go-getter  '1986 Tribune Med1a Services. Inc. All R1ghts Reserved  12/8/86  
40 Tart  
41 Shore bird  7 "Desire under  
42 Swaddle  the-"  
44 Cupidity and  8-out  
avarice  (make do)  
45 Peruvian  9 Counterpart  
46 Indigent  10 Suspenseful  
47 Mother of  contest  
Samuel  11 Newspaper  
50 Football play  section  
51 likely  12 Culture medium  
54 War god  13 Dauntless  
55 Minor  18 Cozy  
politician  23 Charge  
58 Cause of harm  24 Streep e.g.  
59 Cognizant  25 Got by  
60 Uncovered  26 Battery  
61 Khayyam  terminal  
62 Arab land  27 Part of BLT  
63 Angler's hope  28 Feeds the pot  
29 Film  43 literary  50 Baby carriage  
DOWN  30 Accrue  collection  51 Soviet moun­ 
1 Honshu volcano  31 Rounded  44 Biblical land  tain range  
2 lr. isle  32 Endures  46 Chaplain  52 Cheeky  
3 Yachting move  34 Choice coffee  47 Tramp  53 Family or  
4 Large deer  37 Deck opening  48 Composer  Christmas  
5 Suit  41 Irregularly  Adolphe  56 Reverence  
6 "Little -"  notched  49 1492 vessel  57 Recede  

Monday, December 8, 1986-page 12

S~orts 
Irish use shot clock to perfection, outshoot Cougars in 62-46 victory 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Sports Editor 
Notre Dame's 62-46 victory over Brigham Young Saturday 
was  an  Irish  version  of  the  
Chinese water torture  -slow  
and painful.  

By holding the ball and run­ning down the 45-second shot clock before attacking the bas­ket, the Irish took the Cougars, who averaged 105 points per game, completely out of their game. 
The Cougars seemed content to wait on the Irish, but they waited in vain. The Irish con­tinually put up outside shots with 15 or fewer seconds left on the clock -and canned them. Paced by David Rivers' 22 points on 9-of-16 shooting, Notre Dame shot an astounding .658 percent (25-of-38) from the field. Until the final few minutes of the second half, the Irish got all their points of the half from outside 12 feet. 
"They did an excellent job of making their strategy work," said Brigham Young head coach Ladell Anderson. "I really expected a different kind of approach. I expected them to get out after us and play an up-tempo game. I really ex­pected them to press us full court and run with us. Their quickness, of course, can work either way. 
"They must have had 10 field goals with less than five seconds on the shot clock. You work like heck hoping that the clock would tense them up on the shot, but they were shooting like Larry Bird. They hardly missed one." 
But Notre Dame head coach Digger Phelps would have no part of getting into a running game with the Cougars. 
"Going into the game, my concern was their depth," said Phelps. "They really hav 10 legitimate, solid players who love to run. They had six guys coming into the game who averaged double figures. I was worried about (Jeff) Chatman inside and (Tom) Gneiting be­cause of what they did to us last year. I felt the only way we could play them was to really play a 1-3-1 zone, pack it in and force them to beat us from out­side. 
"Offensively, I didn't want to get into a running game with them. I wanted to play the shot clock, and that's why our goal was to start to go into offense under 20 seconds." 
Three things were important 
see IRISH, page 10 
Women's basketball loses captain, drops pair in Texas Classic tourney 
By MARTY STRASEN Assistant Sports Editor 
Playing the top-ranked team in the country Friday night turned out to be the least of numerous problems encoun­tered by the Notre Dame wo­men's basketball team at the Texas Classic this weekend. 
Yes, Texas rolled to an easy 84-59 victory over the Irish en route to the tournament cham­pionship. But that was to be ex­pected. 
Notre Dame then dropped the game for third place, by a 76-53 count, to Colorado on Sat­urday. 
"I think Texas has got a very good team," said Notre Dame head coach Mary DiStanislao. ''Anybody who is going to try to take their title is going to have a fight on their hands. We were expecting their pressure 
Inside Monday 

defense, and they played it very well." 
What was not expected, however, was the news DiS­tanislao received shortly before the squad left for the tournament. Team captain and lone senior Lavetta Willis, a 5­11 forward, decided to quit the team for personal reasons. 
A captain has not been named to replace Willis as of yet. Juniors Mary Gavin and Sandy Botham served as tem­porary captains during the two­day tournament. 
Even with that setback, however, the Irish managed to play the Lady Longhorns as well as a number of top-caliber teams this season. 
"I think we played better than we did against Rutgers," said DiStanislao, referring to her team's 71-50 loss in the season opener. "We definitely 
Miami quarterback page wins Reisman in 
landslide vote  
Women's swim team wins two meets in big weekend  
Knight and Seaver are still unsigned in baseball meetings  
Giants take lead in NFC East with win over Washington  

8 
9 
page 9 page 
page 

-
10 

played with more intensity. There was a disparity in the score, but I don't think the game got out of hand. In the second game of the season, we're looking for contributions from all of our players and for consistency.'' 
The defending national champions never trailed in the contest, with preseason all­America selection Clarissa Davis pouring in 23 points on 10-of-23 shooting from the field. Davis also led the team in rebounds with 11. 
For the Irish, sophomore Heidi Bunek hit on 7-of-11 for a 
team-high  14  points,  while  
sophomore  Diondra  Toney  
added 12.  

Against Colorado, however, all hopes for Notre Dame to sal­
see WOMEN, page 8 


By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
The ACC hockey arena was beginning to have a festive at­mosphere, as the Irish won their third-straight home game with a 6-1 victory over Michigan-Dearborn on Friday, but the Wolves temporarily ended Notre Dame's party the following evening with a 4-3 overtime win. 
The weekend split kept the Notre Dame hockey team's record at .500, as the Irish are 5-5 overall and 3-3 in the Amer­ican Collegiate Hockey Associ­ation. 
"Normally the old adage in hockey is you try to win at home and split on the road," said Head Coach Lefty Smith. "We're disappointed at losing the second game in overtime, but it's one of those things where you hope to learn from mistakes and be a better hockey club because of it.'' 
In Friday night's action, Notre Dame's junior captain turned the game into "The Mike McNeill Show," as McNeill got the hat trick with three goals anit an assist. In a cameo role, backup senior goalie Tim Lukenda made 29 saves while allowing only one Dearborn goal. 
Power plays decided the game, as the Irish defense stopped Dearborn all five times it had the man advantage. 
"We scored on four of six power plays, and we blanked them on the penalty killing, which was really important," said Smith. "McNeill's line (McNeill, Tim Kuehl and Tom Smith) was plus-five for the night, and Lukenda gave us good solid goal tending." 
Second-period goals by McNeill and Kuehl gave the Irish a 3-1 lead, then McNeill, Tom Mooney and Pat Foley gave Notre Dame three goals in the third period to ice the win for the Irish. 
"We came out a little slow in the first period, but in the second and third periods, we played extremely well," said Smith. "We got good defensive play and offensive production from everyone. It was a total team victory." 
Saturday's game had a little of everything -a coach's ejec­tion, two 10-minute misconduct penalties, two game delays to repair the rink's plexiglass, three comebacks, an overtime period and several near­scuffles. When everything fi­nally settled, though, all that mattered w~s that Dearborn had come back to split the se­ries with the Irish. ­
"For the most part we played quite well, but we had trouble trying to finish it off," said Smith. 
The game started slowly, as Irish goalie Lance Madson and Wolves goalie Mike Klavon 
see HOCKEY, page 9 




