-
..' . -~ ' ( ,, 
Beckett's 'Krapp' -page 8 

an independent student newspaper se"ing Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Senate parietals resolution passes with unanimous vote 

By DAVID T. LEE "This still allows them (the Uni­The Senate also passed a News Staff versity) to give the ultimate resolution to "protest the term penalty," said Senator John Gar­'tenant' in regards to student 
The Student Senate enacted a diner. government class government unanimous resolution last night "They have to uphold an and the S.A. B." when applying extending dorm visitation hours image," said Judicial Coordina­for office space in Lafortune Stu­and relaxing penalties for parie­tor Maria Cintron. "Sometimes dent Center. The resolution was tals violations. they (the University) do things unanimous. 
While admitting the serious na­just to make a point." ture of a parietals violation, the It states that "if the Lafortune 
The resolution also pushed
resolution aims to "make it less Student Center is truly for stu­
back morning visitation hours to
likely for the first-time violator to dents, then Student Government 
10 a.m. and evening hours on
be suspended," said Senator ... must have permanent office 
Sunday to 12:30 p.m. The latter
Brian Holst. Specifically, it states space in the Center." 
change is being recommended
that only "repeated violations" of 
because many dorms have mass In other business, Senator
parietals can "result in suspen­
at late hours on Sunday. John Gardiner has organized an­sion or dismissal." 

"It is up to the individual hall other forum to discuss students' The resolution, however, sanc­to set the regulations," said dghts at off-campus parties, spe­
tions a severe penalty for "an in­Holst. At the moment every hall 
cifically focusing on the legality dividual who already has a poor has adopted the most stringent of using breathylyzers. The record or who disregards the reg­parameters for visitation hours, meeting will be tomorrow at 7:30 ulations concerning parietals." he said. 
p.m. in the Library Auditorium. 
Geneva talks could 'break the ice' for Soviets and U.S., Reagan says 
Associated Press only for their treatment of as "a particularly disturbing ex­Daniloff, an American journalist ample of Soviet transgressions 
UNITED NATIONS, N.Y. · Pres­arrested in Moscow, but also for against human rights. The Soviet ident Reagan told the U.N. Gen­their treatment of civilians in Union bears the responsibility for eral Assembly yesterday "the ice Soviet-occupied Afghanistan and the consequences of its action." of the negotiating stalemate their insistence on supporting could break" during the current Marxist-Leninist insurrections The president gave no clue as round of Geneva arms talks with around the world. to what those consequences the Soviet Union. might be.
Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard 
Although Reagan said "a pall Later, as he was going into a
A. Shevardnadze listened to 
has been cast" over U.S.-Soviet meeting here with foreign min­
Reagan's address, making notes 
relations by the Nicholas Daniloff isters of U.S. allies, Reagan told
without signaling any emotion,
affair, he did not suggest the reporters, ''I'm not going to com­
and sat quietly as representa­
case would stand in the way of ment now. Everything's too del­
tives of other nations applauded 
progress toward reducing both icate."
as Reagan finished speaking.
medium-and long-range nuclear On arms controL however, weapons. An administration official, Reagan's tone was unusually 
Referring to the FBI's arrest in briefing reporters about the conciliatory. August of a Soviet employee of speech on condition he not be He said the Soviets, while un­the United Nations accused of identified, said that after Reagan willing to accept U.S. proposals spying for the Kremlin, Reagan received a letter Friday from So­for a 50 percent cut in intercon­said, "Misusing the United Na-· viet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev, tinental missiles, bombers and 

TheObserver/Joe Vitacco 
lions for purposes of espionage he asked that the speech be submarines, have "now

Pipe down 
does a grave disservice to this reviewed to "make sure the tone embraced our idea of radical organization. The world expects was not nasty." reductions in offensive sys­

Matt King commandeers the cockpit of the Holtkamp prac­
better." But Reagan cited Daniloff's ar­tems." tice organ. He uses a computerized sheet of music as he 
Reagan's speech used stern rest and his subsequent confine­types away on the many keys of the instrument. words to criticize the Soviets, not ment to Moscow on spy charges see REAGAN, page 3 

Israeli troops poised by Lebanon 
United Limo bomb scare 

Associated Press terday that Isreal closed all rael has been bringing more access to its self-designated equipment, including artillery, 
disrupts South Bend run 

Mt:TUI.LA, Israel -Hundreds of "security zone" in south Lebanon into south Lebanon since tween the Notre Oame circle
Israeli troops massed on the amid reports that the Israeli army Thursday. He said the U.N. 
By ERIC M. BERGAMO 
and Chicago's O'Hare airport.

ready along the northern border was moving reinforcements for headquarters had received 
Staff Reporter 

Units of Notre Dame Secur­they would move into south up. 
yesterday, and an official said a crackdown on Shiite guerrillas. reports of an Israeli troop build­
A bomb threat directed at a ity, South Bend police, Lebanon if needed to aid an (The reports from the southern Israeli army officials, who 
United Limo bus last Friday af­Roseland police and tile Notre Israeli-backed militia under at­port city ·of Tyre and the Bekaa declined to be identified, said all 
ternoon is still under investi­Dame fire department were tc~c;k from Shiite Moslem guerril­Valley' town of Hasbaya in the tours for journalists into south 
gation by area police, accor­present when the bus arrived las. foothills of Mount Heni1on said Lebanon were canceled as ofyes­
ding to Assistant Security at the main circle bus stop. Residents of this tiny border the area was closed to civilian terday until further notice. 
Director Phillip Johnson.. town said they had not seen such traffic and declared off-limits for Defense Minister Yitzhak Rabin The passengers were taken
The anonymous bomb 

a concentration of troops at the reporters from Israel and has said Israel would not allow off the bus and taken to a safethreat was received by Unitedfrontier since Israel pulled the Lebanon alike.) the 1,000-strong South Lebanon distance away from the bus.
Limo while the bus was en­bulk of its forces from Lebanon Israel has blamed Hezbollal1, Army ·to crumble in the face of The baggage was unloadedroute from Elkhart to South

in June 1985. an Iranian-backed, Shiite ex­the guerrilla onslaught. He said and the passengers claimedBend. United Limo then con­The official denied such action tremist organization, for attacks Israel would back up the their luggage in an effort totacted South Bend and St.
renectecl a policy chang<2. He which killed five United Nations predominantly Christian force see ifanything suspicious wasJoseph County police. Notresaid any operation would be peacekeepers and at least I 2 with helicopter gunships, tanks on the bus. The police and theDame Security was contactedaimed at "showing the Shiites on Israeli-allied Lebanese and artillery. 
driver of the bus thenat 5:50 p.m.

the fringes of the security belt militiamen in the past six weeks. An Israeli officer said Iranian 
searched the interior of the that it doesn't pay to give shelter Revolutionary Guards have 
United Limo busses fre­bus for any explosives. No ex­and support to Hezbollah." Maj. Dag Leraand, a spokes­joined the Shiite offensive 
quently shuttle Notre Dame plosives were found in the (Telephoned reports to lkirut. man for U.N. peacekeepers in against the U.N. and the South 
and Saint Mary's students be-search. the capital of Lebanon, said yes-south Lebanon, told reporters Is-Lebanon Army. 

~---#--~­
.. 
Tuesday, September 23, 1986 -page 2 



In Brief 
Astrik Gabriel. professor emeritus in Notre Dame's Medieval Institute, represented the Medieval Academy of America at the recent 12th Anglo-American Conference of Historians in London. Gabriel. who represents the United States in the International Commission for the History of Universities, presided at a session on "Did Universities 'Train' Learned Physicians?" The London Conference celebrated the I 50th anniversary of the University of London. -The Observer 
Northwestern University is withdrawing from a State Department-sponsored anti-terrorist training program, fol­lowing allegations that some of its participants were Sal­vadoran National Guardsmen implicated in human-rights abuses and murder. Northwestern's president says the pro­gram had become politicized and "we were concerned that (this) really distorts our basic mission, which is academics." The Observer 
Of Interest 
Flu shots will be given at the Student Health Center today from 10:30 a.m. to 5:30p.m. -The Observer 
A brown bag seminar entitled "Chile, Thirteen Years After" will take place today at noon in 131 Decio. Speaking will be Alejandro Foxley, a Chilean native and Notre Dame's Kellogg Professor in International Development. Foxley will speak on the thirteenth anniversary of General Augusto Pinochet's mil­itary coup overthrowing the government of Salvador Allende. The Observer 
An orientation sessiorv'slide show on Notre Dame's Summer Program in Tianjin, China will be given by Notre Dame History Professor Dian Murray tonight at 6:30 in O'Shaughnessy's Satellite Room. -The Observer 
A mandatory meeting for all those interested in the CILA trip to Appalachia will be held tonight at 7 in the multi-purpose room of the Center for Social Concerns. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and In Briefs can be submitted to the Day Editor at the Observer office on the third floor of Lafortune Student Center until I p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interests announce free campus-wide events of general interest. The Observer reserves the right to edit all Of Interests. -The Observer 

Weather 

Temperatures will score in in the high ZO's today but much of the effort will be clouded over by the relentless attack of thunderstorms. Tonight temps will drop off to the mid 60's but only to make another run into the 70's tomorrow. 
-Associated Press 

The Observer 
Design Editor . ........... Andy Saal Sports Copy Editor . ...... Pete Gegen Design Assistant . ..... Chris Donnelly Accent Copy Editor .. . Gurtie Wimmer Layout Staff. ....... Kathleen Moran Accent Layout .......... Carey Gels Typesetters . ....... Chuck Papandrea Typist ................ ColleenFoy News Editor ........ Mary Heilmann ND Day Editor . .......... David Lee Copy Editor ........... Bud Luepke Photographer .......... Joe Vitacco 
The-()~rve-r ( 1 ""i->' ~':>Y ~ 1000 I '' puhh.. hnl \1oth.1.n rhrough l·nda~ t .. \4.:rpr dunnJ< t"x.lmotnd \Orf.c.·arum (lt'ruu.h lbe-O~rve-r '' puhlt,hn..J h\ tht· 'lmklll,,,, lht.·l nl\t'r"t~ ut :\ioue Dame .and ~ami \1an ·.., ( .ullq(t' '\uh'<.-"rtpllon' m.n ht• purch:.~~·d tor S'\CJ pt·r ~r:<tr ( 1.!0 ~r ~mt" ...lt"r 1 h~ \\oTIIIO)( Th~ O~n~r. P < l Box t} 'orn· l>.mu· lru...h.m.t 
thti~() 

Thrr Observe-r'"" a memller ol Th~ A.'"-K"lalrd Prr~!'ll ..o\11 n·pruc.hu.:IUtn rtt(ht' .trt· 
f('!"'lt'"r\'t".J 

Decision against calling rapists 'mentally ill' a responsible one 
The very idea of some acts produces an im­
mediate and irrepressible feeling of wrongness. 
From our guts, the word WRONG screams out at 
their mention. 
Rape is such an act. It turns stomachs. 
Not everything wrong falls in this category. Murder doesn't. Although unarguably wrong. murder doesn't generate the same feeling. Wit­ness the thousands of people terminated yearly on the silver screen. That's entertainment. One can argue we've got some kind of fascination with it. 
Rape doesn't work well in movies or TV. Even when the TV docudrama about convicted rapist Ted Bundy was aired, he was never actually shown doing it. After roughing up his victims a bit. the scene faded out. But in horror and war movies, there's a contest running for who can deliver the goriest end to a human life. 
There are no rapists on the screen like Rambo, whose number of kills we count off jokingly. Rape is too sick a wrong. 
So it's no surprise that the American Psychia­tric Association recently dropped its proposal to classify rapist behavior as a mental illness in the face of protests by feminists and victims' rights groups. 
Apparently, the psychiatrists who proposed to label rape a "paraphilic coercive disorder" forgot a few things. 
They forgot the thought of a suspected rapist using an insanity plea would drive a good num­ber of Americans insane. They forgot about the millions of turning stomachs. 
The researchers' APA colleagues had better memories. They squelched the classification os­tensibly "because of the preliminary nature of the data," according to the APA's president. But the protesting groups, along with many prosecuting attorneys. claimed public pressure forced the decision. 
Whatever the reason behind the APA's deci­sion, most of us probably feel vaguely relieved. Finally some good news in a newspaper always bringing bad news. 
But good news often hides the brewin~ of big· ger troubles under the surface. 
Although public outcry has prevented rapists from claiming insanity, the courts still accept insanity pleas in murder cases by public man­date. Ifsufficient public outrage were expressed, the courts would alter or halt their use. Courts are not total ivory towers. Unwilling to sacrifice all public respect for the judiciary, judges listen when the public speaks. 
FAMOUS LAST WORDS FROM I'RIENDS TO FRIENDS. 
"Arf' .'filii OKlo ril·ir·r·!" "Whats o ti•l(' h,.r·r.,!" 
'I never drink and drive ... I just mash on Green Field' 
"/lili11k yo(('r•e ilwl a.fi•w too 11111/l.'f... "}(II( kiddi11, I m11 drit•t• ll'ifil 111!/I'!Jf'o' cilmed." 
"}(ll('t•e had lou lllltt·il to dri11k, let 111e drive." "Nob1KI1J dt·im' '''!! mrfmf tile." 
They're hot, they're insatiable... It's the Nursery School Girls ... 
DRINKING AND DRIVING CAN KILL A FRIENDSHIR 
U.S. Oepor1ment of TraniportOIIOrl 1!1 
Please 

I 
support the 
AMERICAN YCANCER 
!'SOCIETY~ 
ThiS space conlrit.u,ild as a public service. 

Cliff Stevens 
Assistant News Editor 


.I'm not condemning the lack of such outrage. I'm aiming to illustrate the ambivalence we have toward human behavior research. We're con­fused. 
We believe in personal responsibility for our actions. Taught by our parents, education and religion, responsibility for O!le's actions is as­sumed. Simultaneously, we accept human be­havior sciences such as psychology and social· ogy. Both are respectable courses taught in classrooms across the nation. 
But science is always searching for the causes of phenomena, in this case, the causes of human behavior. Such causes inevitably remove respon­sibility from the individual. People are thus no longer at fault; social or genetic factors compel 
their action. 
Yet we have deep misgivings. How can society work if nobody is to blame for anything? 
Ours is a world based on both science and responsibility. Which will receive our full com­mittment if they become increasingly at odds? 
______________________________. 
Tuesday, September 23, 1986-page 3 
The Observer 

Top military officials involved in Notre left to right, Colonel Sylvester, Major Gen­Dame's Army ROTC program pose with-the eral Wagner, father Hesburgh, Monsignor University's president. The figures are, from Sampson and Lieutenant Colonel Hemphill. 


Announcement of new AIDS drug prompts thousands of hotline calls 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Since dis­closure of the first therapeutic drug to help AIDS sufferers, thousands have called hotlines to get more information, health officials said yesterday. 
Federal authorities announced Friday that an experimental drug found to cut the death rate and 
improve  the  quality  of  life  of  
some  AIDS patients  would  be  
made  more  widely  available.  

They stressed, however, that the drug was not a cure, and that it could have serious side effects. 
The National Institutes of Health said a special telephone hotline established to answer questions about the drug had received more than 3. 500 calls between Friday and yesterday. 
The hotline, which operates between 8 a.m. EDT and mid­night seven days a week. has been receiving an average of 50 calls per hour on 10 incoming lines from doctors and patients interested in being included in further studies of the drug. 
Unlike other purported developments involving treat­ment of acquired immune deficiency syndrome, inquiries about azidothymidine, or ATZ, have not been as frantic as in the past say operators of the hot-line. 
A spokesman for the Whitman Walker Clinic here, a clearing­house for AIDS information, said it has been receiving calls about ATZ, but said these inquiries have not been as urgent as in the past. 
"Overaii. peopie have been cairn and not nooding us with inquiries, partly because of the hotline established at NIH before the announcement" said Jason Whiddon, coordinator ofmedical services at the clinic. 

"People are keeping up hope, but they are cautious," Whiddon added. "We're talking about people who are already recon­ciled to the fact that they might die and have had their hopes raised before." 
AIDS, an incurable condition caused by a virus that results in destruction of the body's infection-fighting immune sys­tem, has been reported in 24,859 Americans to date, 
13,689 of whom have died. 
The ATZ patients suffered fewer deaths and, beginning six weeks after starting the drug, also had noticeably fewer bouts with other infections and cancers associated with AIDS, research­ers say. 

35-nation conference adopts security pact 
Associated Press 

STOCKHOLM, Sweden -A 35­nation conference formally adopted yesterday the first East­West security agreement since SALT II, and diplomats said it could be a step toward improved superpower relations. 
The conference did not deal with actual disarmament or nu­clear weapons. Its goal was to reduce the risk of a military surprise attack or conventional war breaking out by misun­derstanding in Europe. 
Delegates toasted the agree­ment with champagne, ending 32 months of prolonged deliberations among the United States, Canada, the Soviet Union and all European countries ex­cept Albania. 
The accord is politically bin­ding and when ratified will come into force Jan. I, 1987. 
Agreement was reached late Sunday when Soviet and U.S. negotiators compromised on ar­rangements for notification, ob­servation and on-site inspection of military maneuvers. 
It was the first East-West secur­ity agreement this decade, the first during Ronald Reagan's presidency, and the first since the still unratified U.S.-Soviet strategic arms limitations accord in 1979. 
The 35 countries are sched­uled to review the results of the Stockholm conference and other offshoots of the 1975 Helsinki Accords at a follow-up meeting in Vienna, starting Nov. 4. 
During the final session yes­terday, the conference clock remained at I0:56p.m., the time it was stopped last Friday, Sept. 
19. Friday midnight was the uriginal deadline for the confer­ence. Delegates had to "freeze" time because issues remained unresolved. 
"We have taken an important step toward reducing the risk of military confrontation," Robert L. Barry, chief U.S. negotiatior at the talks, said in a statement. 
Oleg Grinevsky, Barry's Soviet counterpart also praised the agreement but said much work still had to be done in reducing war risks. 
"We have left hell behind us and are now in purgatory. But we are still far from heaven," Grinevsky said. 
The measures agreed to allow NATO, the Warsaw Pact and neutral countries to closely mon­itor each other's troop move­ments, thus increasing mutual 

confidence  and  lessening  
suspicion  between  the  blocs,  
delegates said.  

The agreement expanded on similar measures included at Helsinki in 1975. 
South Shore will operate limited runs until mid-April 
Associated Press state loan and approved a new 
service agreement with South 
CHESTERTON, Ind. -Weekend Shore. and off-peak passenger service The action preserves the operated by the South Shore weekend and off-peak rail ser­Railroad will be maintained at vice through April 15. least through mid-April in an But the agency, the Northern agreement reached yesterday. Indiana Commuter Transporta­
The public agency that tion District board, said service operates passenger service would be cut if the General As­through a contract with the rail-sembly fails to provide more road accepted a $2.6 million money to run the railroad. 
~-----------------------------------, 


Reagan 
continuedjrompage 1 

The Soviets had rejected the initial U.S. demand because it would have forced abandonment of many of the heavy land-based missiles that are the core of their



I I ocroam 1 I 
nuclear arsenal. 
Although their most recent of­fer of less drastic cuts wasn't ac­ceptable, Reagan said, it ap­
I lOK 5, '1986 !peared to be "a serious effort." 
I SOUTH BEND, INDIANA I 
I JOIN THE UST OFSPOKTSMED GREATS I 
I Bill Rodgers, Alberto Salazar, Allison Roe, Joan Benoit (course record 32:34}, Jim Spivey, Pete Pfitzinger, Rudy Chapa, Paul Cummings, I
1 Nick Rose (course record 28:14), Keith Brantly, Priscilla Welch, Frank Shorter, Steve Plasencia, Cyndie Welte, Joe Kipsang, Lisa Larsen Wiedenbach, Dan Henderson, Julie lsphording, Chris Hughes, Kenneth Cooper, Hal Higdon,I George Sheehan, David Costil, Tony Staynings -Plu5 many more of the world's fastest IOK runners I 
I 
I I I I I I I I 
I
I I 
I 
...I __________________________________ I
.~ 
I I I I I I I I 
Because of this, he said, the United States is "prepared to consider" more modest reduc­tions as an interim step toward the eventual elimination ofoffen­sive nuclear weapons. 
"So there has been move­ment" Reagan reported. He added that the United States still seeks "total elimination" of intermediate-range missiles in Europe -his so-called zero op­tion. 
"The ice of the negotiating stalemate could break if both sides intensify their efforts in the new rougd of Geneva talks" that opened ~st week. Reagan told the world leaders gathered for the opening of the annual Gen­eral Assembly session. 
Reagan, however, gave no in­dication of significant U.S. con­cessions on his Strategic Defense Initiative, nicknamed "Star Wars." The Soviets claim that building such a space-based shield against nuclear missiles only forces them to build more offensive weapons to make sure they could penetrate U.S . 
defenses in the event of war. 
~-----------~~--~••~+~w=------~~-----~-~--~----~·----------------=-----­
Tuesday, September 23, 1986-page 4 
The Observer 
r 
r 
r 
l 
r 
~ 
r 
r r 
r 
r 
f 
r 
I 
r 
~ 
r r 
r 

•Seasonal publication of Music and Liturgy
SNUG AS •Seasonal workshop for the Hall Liturgical musicians: Every first Thursday of the month,
A BUG 
OFFICE OF Sorin Chapel, 7:00p.m. 
IN A RUG 
UNIVERSITY 
•·Coordination of music, Sacred Heart Church 
DISCIPLESHIP?! 

MINISTRY 
•General resource plaoning for all liturgical celebration 
University of Notre Dame notre dame Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Ubrary Concourse 219• 239-6536 Badin Hall 219•239-5242
~LIGIOUS 
'BULLETIN 


Volume III Issue I September 7, 1936 UNIVERISTY I!INISTRY 
Invitation to Sacramental Preparation 
Initiation in the Roman Catholic Church 
Baptism, Full Communion, Confirmation 
Information Sessions on Sept. 28 
Sponsors: 7pm Library Lounge 
For baptised Catholics willing to journey with persons in our sacramental programs 
Baptism and Full Communion: 8 pm Library Lounge 
For unbaptised persons wanting to become a member of the Roman Catholic Church 
For baptised persons wanting Full Communion in the Catholic Tradition 
For those wanting to know more about the Roman Catholic faith 
Confirmation: 9 pm Library Lounge 
For baptised Catholics wanting to celebrate the Sacrament of Confirmation 

Please call: 
Sr. Pat McCabe,C.S.C 
Unlvenlty Mlnlotry 
239-5242 or atop by Badin olftcea 
8am-5pm 
which meel diocesan regulallons across lhe country 
-Host Couple Program 
4-5 sessions ($25)  
-Pre..Cana Weekend  
($80)  January 30-31  
March6-7  
April3-4  
Call University Ministry  Badin Office: 239-5242  



Daily Mass 
Monday through Friday Alumni Hall4:30 p.m. Celebrant: Fr. Andre Leveille, C. S.C. 
UNMRSITY MINISTRY 
1986-1987 
Rev. Andre LeveiUe, C.S.C, Director  (103 Memorial Library-6S36)  
Core Staff  
Sr. Pat McCabe, C.S.C Steve Warner Priscilla Wong  Religious Education Liturgy and Liturgical Music Assistant Director  5242 5242 6536  
Adjunct Staff (Badin Hall, 239-5242)  
Kathleen de Groot Sr. Jo (Annette) Giarrante, O.S.F. Carol Guenther Tracey Sandman Bro. Bonaventure Scully, C.F.X.  University Village & Married Students Retreats Marriage Preparation Marriage Preparation Religious Bulletin  
Sacred Heart Church  (239-7091)  
Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C Bro. Dennis Meyers, C.S.C.  Rector University Sacristan  
Chaplains  
Rev. David Burrell, C.S.C. Rev. Joseph Carey, C.S.C. Rev. AI D'Aionzo, C.S.C. Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. Rev. Jerry Knoll, C.S.C. Rev. Michael O'Brien, C.S.C Rev. James Riehle, C.S.C.  University Village Athletic Prayer Groups University Chaplain Staff Student Health Athletic  272-7255 6436 5577 7066 5880 7453 5450  
Secretaries  
Helen Bennett PegHouk Anne Scheu  Badin Hall Sacred Heart Church 103 Memorial Library  5242 7091 6536  
Be STILL and!mow that lam God  
retreat  

October 31-November 2 (noon) "Sexuality, Intimacy, and Spirituality" Directed by Patricia Livingston and University Ministry Staff 
November 21-22 (9pm) "Discovering God through self-knowledge Directed by Fr. Andre Leveille and service to others" 
February 6-8 (5pm) "Notre Dame Encounter" Directed by Notre Dame Students and Ministry Team 
March 27-29 (noon) Retreat directed by Fr. James Burtchaell 
For more infonnation contact Office of University Ministry 
AU students are invited to take part in a Bible study sharing which wUI begin Monday, September 22 in Lewis HaD Chapel at 7:30 p.m. 
CaD Kristen Strougal at 283-4173 or Fr. D'Aionzo at 239-5577 or 239-6919. 

The Observer 
South African miners protest 'white' services 
Associated Press 
EVANDER, South Africa -About 
200 black miners, shouting 
union slogans and tribal chants, 
disrupted a company-sponsored 
memorial service yesterday for 
177 men killed in a mine fire last 
week. 
"We're not going to pray with 
whites today. We've never been 
allowed to pray with whites. We'll 
have our own rites,':__ miners 
shouted. 
Holding clubs and steel rods 
over their heads, they ran 
through the outdoor service I 0 
times, drowning out sermons by 
white and black preachers. 
Hundreds of other workers who 
came for the service poured out 
of bleachers and chairs to join 
the dissidents. 
After the service, they contin­ued to race around a field near the No. 2 shaft of Kinross gold mine until officials from the Na­tional Union of Mineworkers calmed them down. 
A fire in the shaft last Tuesday 
killed 172 black and 5 white 
miners, and injured 2.35, mostly 
blacks. 
Regional union organizer Tshidiso Mothupi said the union would hold its own memorial Wednesday at nearby Secunda. 
In Johannesburg, the United Democratic Front, South Africa's main multiracial anti-apartheid alliance, said in a statement it 
joined trade unions in holding 
the mine owners "fully respon­
sible for this tragic loss of 177 
Queen's-Castle &The Knights $6student Sl.50 
cut style 
AWAY.FROM CAMPUS 
272-6312 211-1691 
DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 
We ....f•t.•tile Ro,•IBroue S••ta••l.. C.•t• ...• .....•l••ta••• Not Ho.re 
.CWIIM......B•e1cMII 
Mote;8t~ow111f)Mj 
U-HAUl 
REFRIGERATORS For Rent 
(New 2.6 Cubic ft. Models) Call 282-2801 for student rate 3410 Western Ave. 

Men's and Women's Surgical Scrubs 
All sizes from S-XL Colors: Misty Green, Ciel Blue, Cranberry Shirts from $12.95-$18.95 Pants from $17.50-$23.50 
To order, call Michiana Center for Independent Living (219)233-7860 
'*Visa and Mastercard accepted 
precious lives, lives that have made possible the millions in riches that the mining bosses have today." 
In Pretoria, President P·. W. Botha said foreign government and mining industries were wel­come to send their own repre­sentatives to South African mines to check the safety stand­ards. 
Botha said in a message to the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions in Brussels that its demand for an indepen­dent commission of inquiry into the disaster was based on ignor­ance and represented a "cynical and insensitive" attempt to lay blame. 
A government team is inves­tigating the fire. South African mining companies contend that their safety standards are among the highest in the world, given the inherent dangers in this country's deep mines, and that safety figures show steadv im­
provements. 
About 6, 000 Kinross miners attended the outdoor memorial service Monday. In the front row was Derek Keys, chairman of General Mining Union Corp., and other white managers. 
The miners' signs and slogans reflected racial tension in the mines, where blacks work under white supervision, and accusa­tions that company neglect of safety procedures contributed to the disaster. 
~-------------------~--~------------~---~------­
Tuesday, September 23, 1986-pageS 



U.S. Congress to address 3 issues as time runs out on 99th Session 

Dr. Emil Hofman takes time out to engage students in his favorite fish story. A closer 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -With time rapidly running out on the 99th Congress, the House plans to tackle the year's three major money matters this week, and a special impeachment panel in the Senate continues the trial of an imprisoned federal judge. 
The House planned action on more than two dozen bills, mostly minor, for yesterday and today. 
But the money starts to roll Wednesday, when the House plans to vote on an election-year budget package designed to shave about $15 billion off the fiscal 1987 deficit without tax in­creases or major cuts in federal spending programs. 
Did you sign up 
to be a new member of The Observer's photography staff? 
Ifso, then you will want to be at the first meeting for new photographers. Meet at 7:30pm on Thursday, September 25, in The Observer's new offices on the third floor of the LaFortune Student 
Cent~r. 
Questions? Call Jim Carroll at 239-5313. 
Notre Da•e Avenae Apart•eats NOW RENTINGFORFAIL 
Completely fumishe~ balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
Move in before 10/118q and get 
ONE MONTH FREE RENT 
Offi~ at 120 ND Ave 
23+6647 
Call Aaytiine 
The budget plan, similar to 
.one passed by the Senate on Friday, is a hodgepodge of items such as government assets sales, user fees for government services and accounting changes. It would allow Congress to drop the deficit below $154 billion, the threshold at which Gramm-Rudman calls for across-the-board spending cuts. 
On Thursday, the House plans to vote on the tax bill, the largest­ever revamping of the federal in­come tax code. 
House leaders also plan to bring up a $567 billion package to finance government opera­tions for the year beginning Oct. I. 
Congress plans to adjourn Oct. 
.3, and at least an interim version 
of the spending package must 
be worked out between the 
House, Senate and the adminis­
tration before lawmakers can 
head for the campaign trail. 
In the Senate, imprisoned 
federal Judge Harry E. Claiborne 
returned to the witness stand 
yesterday before a special im­
peachment panel. 
A house prosecution team is 
trying to have him removed from 
the bench, from which he has 
refused to resign, despite his 
conviction on income tax eva­
sion. 
Claiborne on Friday denied to 
the panel that he cheated on his 
income taxes, and contended he 
was framed by hostile 
prosecutors. 
2menhijack Soviet jet; ordeal ends with 6 deaths 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -Two men seized a Soviet airliner at a Ural moun­tains airport in an aborted weekend hijacking in which the two gunmen, two passengers and two policemen were killed, Tass said yesterday. It said the men were drug addicts. 
The official news agency said that before commandeering the Tu-1.34 Aeroflot plane, with 76 passengers aboard early Satur­day, the hUackers shot and killed two police officers during a car chase to the airport. 
The thwarted hijacking oc­curred at the airport in Ufa, cap­ital of Bashkir autonomous republic, about 700 miles east of Moscow. The plane apparently never left the ground before it was stormed and retaken by se­curity agents. 
Security police and uniformed militia undertook "decisive measures" to recapture the plane, Tass said, indicating they stormed the aircraft while it was still on the runway. 
-~--~---------------~-­




"ie~~_O_i_n__t_____________
Tu-esday_.sep-ternb-er23_
••9s6--p-age6 
Abuse of alcohol runs rampant at hall SYRs 
Lunch is my favorite meal of the day because by one o'clock I'm finished with all my classes and South Dining hall isn't very crowded. I can enjoy a leisurely lunch with my friends contemplating the origins of the universe. That's my idea of a good time. The other day, however, my relax­ing lunch-hour was disturbed by an angry conversation between myself and one of my good friends. I was surprised at his point of view and I became disturbed, and a little angry at him, as I voiced my own opinion. 
Lou Sarabando 
lunch talk 
Alcohol. Notre Dame. Parties. What's it all about? That is what I wanted to know. With an SYR coming up this Friday, the topic of conversation came up. I'm growing increasingly adamant in my at­titude towards alcohol and the Domer mentality. Why do people go to SYR's? To get drunk, sloshed, blitzed, whatever you call it. That's what Chris was telling me. Gee, I thought they went to SYRs to trash my dorm, spill drinks, throw food everywhere, vomit on my bathroom floor and act like class A jerks. Same thing. 
Since my freshman year, I have noticed no change in my observations. I must be real naive because I thought people went to SYRs in order to meet new people, have a good time with friends, listen to good music and dance. If there wasn't any alcohol it would not matter at all. 
I was laughed at. My good friend, Chris, was sitting across from me, laughing be­tween bites ofhamburger. All ofa sudden it dawned on me that I am as naive as they come. Or am I? 
Why is it necessary for students to use every opportunity possible to get drunk? Am I missing something? When I return to classes on a Monday morning, I invar-

P.O.BoxQ 
Dating is made easier if one learns to relax 
Dear Editor: 
Yes, this is another letter concerning dating (or the absence of) at Notre Dame. I am writing in reply to Michelle Coleman's article last Tuesday (Sept. 16). Michelle's article offers what appears to be sound insights into the social life at Notre Dame She began by attempting to erase many of the groundless myths of dating sur­rounding the college. Unfortunately, I spent (survived) a year rooming with two guys who were manically depressed by the effect of these "illusions." I would be in danger of severe bodily harm if I released their names, but to dispel any doubts...they are not social rejects; in fact they both have been told they could be models (at least that's what they say.) 
Now, Michelle encouraged guys to take chances, go to the mall (risque!), a campus movie, a play, bowling, or din­ner. My roommates had run through this list twice in the first month. Yeah sure, some girls would go out but the vast iably hear some of my classmates brag­ging about how many parties they atten­ded over the weekend and how many cases of beer they drank. On Fridays the chatter turns to happy hours beginning in the early afternoon and barhopping later in the evening. I'm not impressed. Recently, I heard two female classmates discussing their various states of int.oxica­tion over the past weekend. I was dis­gusted. Don't call me sexist it was just that I never expected to hear women, I mean girls, talk like that Call me naive. 
Can't you have a good time with friends without alcohol? Wouldn't you have as good a time enjoying the company of your friends with a can of Coke in your hand? (Chris laughs harder now.) 
If you need alcohol to enjoy your weekend, you, my friend, are at the wrong type of insititution. I wonder. do these weekend parties continue after college or do you suddenly become a mature adult 
because you have a diploma in your hand? 
I don't know what more to say about alcohol. I still don't understand why people drink every weekend to get drunk. It makes no sense. Is it that enjoyable to throw up uncontrollably after hours of drinki11g alcohol? 
I'm not looking forward to Friday eve­ning. I would have liked to attend the SYR but I would feel uncomfortable walking my date through the trashed hallways of Fisher while avoiding the disgusting be­havior of drunk boys and girls at every corner. And if I don't attend the SYR. it is "recommended" that I leave the dor­mitory while the party is in progress. Why should I leave my home for six hours against my will? I don't like the idea of my home being turned into a bar for six hours. The whole concept is rather strange, if you think about it. But most of us don't do we? 
Nor does the administration. Gosh, let's 
spend a lot oftime outlining a new alcohol 
policy in order to prevent abuses of alco­hoi on campus. Then, why don't we turn around and "break" the rules by allowing two "all hall semi-formal parties" per se­mester? While "it is the conviction of the University that drunkenness and public intoxication are unacceptable" (1984 AI-coho! Policy), 1 cannot understand why, therefore, the University condones drunkenness and public intoxication by allowing all hall parties (SYRs)! Maybe this paradox only makes sense if one is in­
toxicated, but it makes no sense to me at the moment. 
When the undergrad club opens up on campus, 1asked Chris, do you think SYRs will still be as popular? Ofcourse, without booze, "Theodore's" won't last more than a month, he replies. I don't believe this i-5 true. 1 think it is a great idea to have a nightclub available for those of us who are under 2 I, and that it will be popular because there won't be drunk boys and girls to reckon with. 
I hope you all have a good time at SYRs this year, and I hope the Domer mentality towards alcohol isn't as widespread as 1 think it is. As you are picking up that first beer or mixed drink on Friday night, or any night ask yourself why you are about to drink it. Wouldn't you truly enjoy your­self more if you drank a club soda in­stead? Maybe not but at least give it a try this first time around, and see how the other half lives. Let me know how it went, give me a call and we'll do lunch sometime. 
l.ou Sarabam/o is a junior accounting am/ psychology major. 

majority did not. Depression began to set in; the veracity of these "myths" was less in doubt. Contrary to her viewof rejection, it is a pride-numbing, painful experience. Not many normal guys can take more than a few hundred curt "No, I'm busy." replies without feeling the effects. 
By the end of the year one roommate was to the point of transferring schools for the sole reason of his dating problems (he might deny this, but. ..) The other, well, suffice to say he's still feeling the effects of that year. 
Tragically, her myths are all too real. Women, because of the ratio, do have more men to choose from, and therefore are inclined to be reserved. It's a fact. She says it's untrue that every girl is flocked by a group of guys; I don't know about the rest of the male population, but the times I've been to a party where every girl is not surrounded (suffocated) by guys is less than the times we won last year. My roomies took many chances and asked out a lot of girls but ended up worse than they started. 
So, what is the solution? You're asking me how I've survived the rampant pes­simism surrounding me? Celibacy... just kidding. There are no simple solu­
tions; her advice, though reasonable, has been already taken and it doesn't work. Dating will remain a problem regardless of the brilliancy or originality of my ad­vice. I learned a long time ago to relax. just relax. Relationships and dating are somewhat important to me, but by not staking my life on the abscence or pres­cence of a girlfriend, I am much happier. I do not expect or yearn for a girlfriend every waking moment so I don't have a current interest I'm not unhappy. If I do find someone who interests me, I am that much happier because it was unexpected. If one eternally pines for a girL the majority of one's time is spent in this unsatisfied state. As this progresses into 
desperation the chance of finding a date geometrically decreases. 
So, maybe my attitude is tough to em­ulate. Another word of advice is just to be a genial, friendly person and try to make some good friends of the opposite sex. Not only are these relationships just as rewarding, but many times a great dating relationship is built upon one of these simple friendships. 
John Schmit Grace Hall 
Voluntary testing is the answer to drug crisis 
Dear Editor: 
Drug testing is not the solution for a problem that has universally reached epidemic proportions. ror employers to impose mandatory drug testing would be a clearcut invasion of privacy and would serve only to circumvent the problem. One cannot hope to cure the drug prob­lem by removing those who would test positive on such tests, or by forcing them into rehabilitation. Voluntary rehabilita­tion would be the effective solution. The inspiration to volunteer for such pro­grams should come through increased emphasis on education about the conse­quences of substance use and abuse. Drug testing should be secondary to the establishment of a policy for universal mandatory education about drugs. 
Suzi Cantwell Off-Campus 
MY TRANSFOI?MJfT/ON INTD !XJRI<.
YOU MikE, I ... mN7 \ WELL? AREN'T
OF 7H/3: YeAR IS NOIAJ CIJMPl&T&! ,JJI<E YOU HAV~ OFROAUY TAI<&N YOU GOING 70 1 /T2 OV8R MYENTIRE IAJMPM8{)P 
~ I l-ff[;_l """'·"""'~-IN PLASTIC. 
FIRST? 
\ 
Quote of the day 
"A man who never trusts himself never trusts anyone." 
Cardinal de Ritz 
(1613-1679) 
Memoirs 
.VieWP-Oint Tuesday, September23, 1986-page7 
U.S. is violating human rights in Nicaragua 
Over the summer, while you were whiling your while away, I decided to write a few letters to members of Congress. I corresponded with John Hiler, who sits in the U.S. House of Representative for Indiana's 3rd district (which includes South Bend and Notre Dame). I also wrote to Indiana Senator Richard Lugar who is the Chairperson of the U. S. Senate Foreign Relations committee. Since these two honorable men belong to the Repub­lican Party, I thought it might be wise to write to a Democrat too. I picked Edward Kennedy. 
Jurgen Brauer 
guest column 
Let me share some of this correspond· ence with you. The premise was that I indicated to the Republicans that I don't think any money should be given to the "Contra" who seek to overthrow the Nicaraguan government. 
Sen. Lugar replies: "I appreciate you bringing to my attention your concerns about allegations surounding the activi­ties of the Nicaraguan democratic resis­tance." Oops! "Democratic resistance: Sen. Kennedy sees the matterjust a little differently: "I do not believe," he writes, "that support for the contras contributes to the effort to restore democracy to 
Nicaragua. In tact, the record shows that President Reagan's policy has achieved just the opposite. After five years of U.S. military 'pressure,' the people of Nicaragua are further away from democracy than ever before." For Ken­nedy, it appears, the contra are not a "democratic resistance" to the Nicaraguan government. In fact. he con­tinues: "I am, also concerned about the continuing reports of atrocities inflicted by the contras on civilians in Nicaragua. Surely, U.S. aid should not be available to groups who engage in terrorism." Aha! That one is clear enough: "democratic resistance" vs "terrorism" (a Ia Libya?). 
But even so, why doesn't the Nicaraguan government negotiate with the contra? According to John Hiler that is what the Sandinistas should do. He says: "An offer for a cease fire in return for negotiations has been made by con­tras and rejected by the Sandinistas 15 times. The offer remains open today." That one befuddled me: How can one negotiate a cease fire with the contras when the contras are ordered by Wash­ington not to? I think Kennedy has it cor­rect when he puts the blame on Wash­ington: " "Thirteen Latin American nations--includig Nicaragua--have sup­ported the recent efforts of the Contadora Group to reach an end to the crisis. 
The presidents of Argentina, Brazil, Peru and Uruguay ... stressed the impor­tance of the U.S. role in the effort. They also stated that it was imperative for the United States to end its support for the contras and that such a step was indis­pensable to achieving peace." While it is true, Mr. Hiler, that the Sandinistas rejected talks with the contras, it is not because they don't want peace but be­cause they want to talk to the right person (who sits in the White House). 
What does the U.S. really want in Nicaragua? Sen. Lugar says: "I firmly believe that our objective in Nicaragua should be to create the circumstances which will make it possible to someday observe a democratic election preceded by the restoration of civil liberties; true freedom of the press to cover the candi­dates, issues and procedures of the elec­tion; and freedom for candidates to travel at will throughout the entire country with­out harassment and intimidation. Prior to that time, a constituent assembly or con­stitutional convention should be elected in similar open circumstances to draft a dem ocratic constitution comparable to those of Costa Rica, Guatemal, El Sal­vador or Honduras." 
Well, if that wasn't specific! But. let's see what to make of this list. Here is what I "firmly believe." First ofall, I believe that the U.S. should not have any objectives regarding Nicaragua! The U.S. govern­ment is to govern the United States, not any other country. If the U.S. government feels threatened by Nicaragua it ought to prepare adequate defense on U.S. soil, not along Honduras" and Costa Rica's borders with Nicaragua as the U.S. is pres­ently doing. 
Second ofaiL I believe that people have the right to elect the kind of government they want to have. The Sandinista gov­ernment held internationally supervised, although not U.S. controlled, elections in November 1984. The Frente Sandinista got 67% of the popular vote versus close to thirty perent for political parties to their right. If the election result did not please the U.S. government so what? After all, the U.S. didn't intervene in Italy and France, whose government had expressly communist minisers in recent years. Nei­ther does the U.S. government intervene in Poland, East Germany and all the other "Soviet Bloc" nations. 
Thirdly, by what arrogance of power does the U.S. government permit itself to openly inflict wounds upon wounds on innocent Nicaraguan civilians? At the time of the Nicaraguan revolution in 1979, the Nicaraguan people had a miserable stan­dard of life. The revolution improved that standard remarkably, expecially in terms of educational and health services as well as in food production. The U.S. govern­ment has since then persued a policy of reducing those improvements back to Somoza-time standards and is increas­ingly successful in achieving its aims. Talk about human right violations in Central America; the U.S. deserves the number one spot! 
Jurgen Brauer is a graduate student in economics and a regular Viewpoint col­umnist. 

Capitalists dominate the Democratic system 
"Democracy is the worst form ofgouern­ment. Except for all the others." 
Winston Churchill 
Mr. Churchill's statement is an accurate one, especially in light of our own form ofdemocracy, which I label as a capitalist democracy. The democracy which exists in the United States has the singular im­portant purpose of guaranteeing every­one in this country the right to vote and take part in the political process, which supposedly insures against discrimina­tion or exclusion ofany particular interest group. 
Michael Froning in the minority 
I contend, however, that in our capitalist democracy, these political rights are simply formal and proceduraL not substantive, and that a capitalist democracy is simply a legal way for a minority to oppress a majority. In real terms, this means that the exercise of these piolitical rights and the power of expression are limited by inequal distri­bution ofresources, and in actuality, only people with adequate resources may ex­ercise their political rights. 
Why are resources so influential on the ability to exercise political rights? Be­cause the coordination of the exercise thereof depends directly on monetary availability. A small grocery store owner and the chairman of the board of Exxon have the same right to freedom of ex­pression, but their powers to lend sub­stance to this right are directly related to their resources and thus are unequal. This is because importance and assets guarantee access to politics and increase 
the likelihood of having one's demands 
met. 
To understand this, let us examine our capitalist democracy and learn how this resource constraint Is produced. First of all, ourcapitalist democracy is speclflcally designed to satisfy the interests it promotes, these being short term ma­terial gains. In addition, two main kinds of people exist in our society; capitalists and workers. Capitalists constitute a minority of the population and are defined as those who control the invest­ment which occurs in a capitalist state. Workers are generally defined as every­one else. 
For obvious reasons, the welfare of the workers depends on the capitalists, as they are from whom the workers receive their money. Capitalists, however, tend only to invest as much money in the sys­tem as will maximize their profits and keep the workers content yet subdued enough to not disrupt the capitalists monopoly on money and power. 
In other words, the so-called 
democracy is run by a minority of the 
population (the capitalists) because they 
own the vast majority of the resources 
needed to exercise political rights, while 
the workers, due to their inherent lack of 
resources, have only formal rights. As the 'capitalist democracy is geared toward the :satisfaction of short term material gain, 1the capitalist's task to keep the worker 1perpetually satisfied is easy. 
Well, you say, this is not really true be­cause in our society, everyone is able to earn as much money as they want. and even if they do not have abundant re­sources, vote and partake in the politcal process. But this argumentjust does not bear hard scrutiny when compared with the facts. 
Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer­sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
One: 78. I% of the households In the 
U.S. earn above $40,000 per year while 
3.7% of the households earn above $75,000 per year. 
Two: the bottom 20% of the wage earn­ers in the U.S. gross 5% of the GNP while the top 20% gross 41.9% of the GNP. 
Three: 0.5% of the population owns 50% of all corporate stock while 85% of the population owns no corporate stock at all. 
Four: in 1980, the 53.2% voter turnout was the third lowest in history, and, in what was dubbed a landslide victory, Ronald Reagan won a smaller percentage of the eligle electorate than did Wendell Willkie in his 1940 loss to Franklin D. Roosevelt. 
Five: the working class votes 30% less than the middle class. 
Six: blacks vote 20% less than whites. 
Seven: 27 of the 33 winners in the 1982 
senate races outspent their opponent and five of the six winners who won with less than four percent of the vote outspent their opponents by at least twice as much. 
It is fairly evident from these statistics that to be successful in, let alone be active in, . politics, or have any sort of viable power in this country, one must have con­siderable resources, and, therefor, be in the minroity. The difficulties in mounting a campaign which has few financial re­sources available to it, or even exerting any kind of influence (or using one's freedom of expression ifyou will) without financial resourd!s, in our society, are virtually insurmountable. 
But. you argue, a minority can not oppress a majority in our country because we have a built in safety device: the majority rules concept. and anyone with a majority can win. However, there are two major problems with this. 
The first is that, as we see from our statistics, and as I have justdemonstrated above, It Is generally people with money or who have the backing of money who run In and win elections, In other terms they are the capitalists. or, the minority. The second Is that the loser, no matter what. Is not represented at all. 
These two flaws in our electoral 
process, the requirement of resources to 
have success and the winner take all con­
cept clearly leave our capitalist 
democracy in a state of gross under­
representation where the minority has the 
opportunity to oppress the majority. 
But what is to be done? What system is more effective? There Is no better sys­tem that we know of, as Winston Churchill so aptly said. What we must do Is render the current system more viable and more equal, and the change required is not a disruptive or radical one. 
The first thing we must do is remove all materially based disabilities concern­ing freedom of expression, and allow everyone the chance to lend equal sub­stance to their views. Secondly, we must adopt a proportional representation sys­tem as opposed to a winner take all sys­tem in which losers would still be represented and other parties would have the chance to be formed (and represented) instead of the strict two party system presiding now. 
These two simple changes will meet resistance, namely from the people in power who are afraid they will lose what they have. Yet this resistance must be overcome and the changes must be enacted to rid us of our highly dis­criminatory system. 
Michael Froning is a junior arts and let­ters major and is a regular Viewpoint col­umnist. 
General Board 
Editor-in-Chief . .................. Joe Murphy Managing Editor ................ Kevin Becker Viewpoint Editor ................ Scott Bearby Sports Editor . ............... Dennis Corrigan Accent Editor . .................. Mary Jacoby Saint Mary's Editor . ........... Margie Kersten News Editor ..................... Tripp Baltz News Editor . ................ Mark Pankowski 
Founded November 3, 1966 
Business Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann Controller . ................. Alex VonderHaar Production Manager . ............ Chris Bowler Photography Manager .......... James Carroll Advertising Manager . ........ Anne M. Culligan Systems Manager ............. Shawn Sexton Graphic Arts Manger .......... Mark Weimholt OCN Manager . ............. Francis X. Malone 
~-----~---­





Accent 
The Krapp story 
sure now is playing old tapes heCluchey discovered Beckett in
Special to the Observer 
has made of his birthdays over Drama Workshop visited San 
1959 when the San Francisco the years. He no longer makes"Speak with the tone of moon­
Quentin to perform "Waiting for new tapes, but passes the timelight in your voice," suggested listening to his old ones. Beckett,Godot." The performanceSamuel Beckett as he eased his through Cluchey, allows silencechanged his life. Clucheyeighty-year-old body into a front to speak as loudly as the fumingfounded the San Quentin Dramarow seat. As rich in visual im­Krapp. It is engrossing, stylizedworkshop, an acting troupe com­agery when he directs as when detail from beginning to end.
prised of San Quentin convicts,he writes, Beckett is nonetheless Krapp laughs at his youthfuland wrote three of his own plays.
quite specific about what he ambition, and explodes with theCluchey was paroled in 1966wants from his actors and relent­frustration of age and lost love.
an actor,less in his pursuit of it. for his excellence as Rarely does Beckett direct hisdirector, and playwright. BeckettOne ofhis favorite actors is ex­discovered Cluchey in 1974 own plays, so "Krapp's LastSan Quentin prisoner Rick Clue­Tape" is a particularly insightfulwhen both men happened to behey, who will be performing Be­
working in Berlin, and the two look into one of this century'sckett's "Krapp's Last Tape" at have been close friends ever most important playwrights.
Washington Hall on the campus Krapp has three vices: bananas,since.
of Notre Dame Wednesday, Cluchey brings to Notre Dame alcohol, and words, words beingThursday and Friday, September what he loves above all else. One"Krapp's Last Tape," a short play
24,25 and 26 at 8:10p.m. 
which was a part of trilogy has to wonder as he watchesCluchey feels that his back­("Waiting for Godot," Krapp grapple with his past and
ground has given him a unique 
present how much of Beckett is"Endgame," and "Krapp's Lastunderstanding of Beckett's ab­Tape") recently performed in in this marvelous character. Atsurdist style. Cluchey says, "If age 80, this may be the last play Europe to celebrate Beckett'sthe critics are right when they that Beckett will choose to direct.
80th birthday. "Krapp's Lastproclaim that all of Beckett's Atter each pertormance thereTape" is "a dramatic record ofcharacters are drawn from his will be an open discussion withaging." The critics in Europeearly life in Dublin, that is, the 
Cluchey. The performances are the culmination of a week of workshops led by Cluchey. A grant from the Exxon Education Foundation has tnade the workshops possible.
Samuel Beckett's 
Cluchey will be coaching stu­dent actors in handling the Be­ckett characters and style. He will 
"Krapp,, to appear 
also be giving three lectures on various topics related to his work with Beckett. Both the acting workshops and lectures are open to the public.

at Washington 
Performances of "Krapp's Last Tape" are Wednesday through Friday, September 24, 25, and 26 at 8: I 0 p.m. Tickets are $6streets, bogs, ditches, dumps, have called Cluchey "mag­main floor and $5 balcony. Stu­and madhouses, then I can only nificent" in his portrayal of dent and Senior Citizen dis­add that the most informed, Krapp. "The one-time prisoner counts are available for the Wed­knowledgeable and qualified Cluchey has a philosophic bond nesday and Thursdaypeople to portray Beckett's with the Beckett character com· performances. Tickets are avail­'characters' would be the in­plimented by his own dramatic able at the Washington Hallmates of any prison." 
excellence." Ticket Office noon -6 p.m. week­In fact, the costume Beckett Krapp is an old man now, but days. For Mastercard and Visahas chosen for Krapp has stripes at one time fancied himself a reservations or further informa­suggestive of prison stripes to writer and a lover. His one plea-tion call 239-5957.
stress his solitude. 
t 


r ~ Rockne pasting promised 
r 
legends: Babe Ruth, Jim Thorpe, of the letters that were mailed to CHRIS DALLAVO 
Jackie Robinson." the Post Office. Hundreds of ND 
features writer 
Rockne, his childhood hero, alums responded, includingr r There are many ways to honor immediately came to mind. "He former DePaul basketball coach 
the legends and heroes who have 
came to this country at five years Ray Meyer. Red Barber of public helped shape our society. ofage, didn't know the language, radio wrote in. Speaker (of the George Washington and Abra­
and yet he worked his way into House) Tip O'Neil and Senator ham Lincoln have lent their Notre Dame. He became not only Jesse Helms both wrote back portraits to our financial system, a great football coach, but with letters of strong support,
a 
while Martin Luther King and an great human being as well. If and anytime you can get those anyone deserves to be on a two together on anything ... " 
Unknown Soldier are forever im­
mortalized in stone. stamp, it is Knute Rockne." Convinced by the overwhelm­Feld began looking into the ing support for the stamp, the
Another method of tribute is found on every letter and idea by calling the United States United States Post Office ap­postcard that travels through the Post Office and the National Ar­proved the idea and commis­mail -that is, to have one's like­
chives. He was told that it was at sioned the artwork. ness on a postage stamp. A Notre 
least a two-year process, requir­The actual stamp is first Dame legend will soon join the ing a great deal of public support created as a large portrait and and some luck. then reduced to its normal size.
ranks of the privileged few who 
have appeared on a stamp: our "They were very nice, but their It is this portrait-size stamp that own Knute Rockne. attitude was one of doubt. You is first unveiled, followed by the know, 'Good luck, but we really first-day issue of the stamps.
Thanks to the efforts of Mi­
don't think it will happen.· " "I can't speak for the Unitedchael Feld, a 1956 Notre Dame Unaffected by their attitude, States Post Office, or for the Uni­graduate, the fabled former Feld, wrote more than 350 let­versity, but I can't think of a bet­Notre Dame football coach will ters, starting in November 1985. ter place to have the portrait onsoon grace a United States com­Notre Dame alumni associa­display than at the University ofmemorative stamp. Its release is tions, as well as a wide variety of Notre Dame."
timed to coincide with the IOOth clubs, magazines and As far as his efforts are con­
anniversary of Rockne's birth on newspapers, received his letters, cerned, Feld said, "This was
March 4, 1988. 
urging them to write to the done for Knute Rockne and Notre
The idea came to Feld as he United States Post Office in sup­Dame. Whatever comes of it has
sat in a restaurant in Washington port of a Knute Rockne stamp. been a group effort -all of the
D.C. 
He even tapped into the political people who supported the Idea 
"I was looking at all of the realm, writing many U.S. with their letters and calls. I am sports memorabilia on the walls, Senators and Representatives. just proud to be a part of it and and I saw blown-up pictures of "The response was unbeliev­a part of the University of Notre stamps featuring famous sports able. I received copies of many Dame." 


Tuesday, September 23, 1986-page 8 -9 
Blessed are the slay 
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a lonely God 

sweetheart. The effect ofshyness is a short-circuiting of the elec­trical system that runs from the brain to the tongue, hands, feet and every nerve end ·in fhe body. One feels tense from head to toe, and the blood rushes in direc­tions in which it was never in­tended by nature to go. 
The person of genius, affected 
by shyness, sounds and acts like 
a klutz. The dancer, when shy­
ness hits him, feels his leg 
muscles turn into cooked spag­
hetti and his feet become as un­
managable as though they had 
been replaced with shovels 
weighted down with coal. The 
shy person's voice can't be 
trusted with the now of words. 
Shyness, if it's bad enough, 
makes the victim want to die, to 
get off stage; but life is not merci­
ful enough to let him go with dig­
nity. He is stuck for an eternity, 
it seems, in the rehearsal of a 
fate worse than death, as he 
shadow-boxes with the demon of 
self doubt sent to punish the shy 
of heart. 
Shyness is not a chip you wear 
on you shoulder as you poor­
mouth your way through a party. 
At a recent wedding reception in 
the east. I sat between an actress 
aspiring to be the wittiest woman 
in New York, and the most nega­
tive man in Montauk, Long Is­
land. His wife, pretty and petite, 
was a society photographer. I 
asked him: "Are you a photog­
rapher too?" He groaned, swore, 
and muttered under his breath, 
"Here we go with twenty ques­
tions," before finally answering 
as though his job were nothing. 
"I cut fish on the Montauk dock." 
I said: "I had great uncles who were fishermen living on the coast of Maine. This summer, in London, I used to hang around fish markets, because the smells reminded me of growing up in Maine." When I asked how he felt about catching tuna -the old fis­hermen used to throw it back as horse mackerel -turned his back as though I were boring him. 
The waiter brought me a Man­hattan. Receiving it gratefully, I quoted one of Toots Shor's old quips: "I feel sorry for people who don't drink. They know when they wake up in the morning. that's the best they're going to feel all day." 
The sunshineboy wasn't amused. "According to my wife, I'm a certified lush. I've been off the sauce for three and a half months. I feel rotten every mor­ning. and tomorrow, I'll be sick as a dog from all the booze I rlidn't touch today." 
I felt bad for drinking in front of him. How was I to know he was nursing a ginger ale? 
The wedding guests clinked their glasses with the silverware. The bride and groom kissed. The actress wanting to be Tallulah Bankhead shouted: "Foreplay, right here in front of us. I'm so jealous, I think it's disgusting." As you can see, she has a way to go to become immortal for her wit. 
"What's she talking about?" the boy of summer in his ruin wanted to know, as though he didn't understand her explicit­ness. "We're half way through September," I said. "She means the season for playing is over." 
"Yankee tourists, go home," 
he urged. "Yankee tourists are 
like the G.l.s in Europe: overpaid, 
over-sexed, and over here." Then 
with a sneer in the direction of 
the bride and groom, he said: 
"All any woman wants ofany man 
is to make his whistle Dixie." His 
imagery was earthier than mine, 
and she went him one better. 
They weren't fun to listen to, so 
I left the table. 
Neither one of them needed to 
be liberated: she, as a woman; 
he, as one of the meek who will 
inherit the earth. Liberating them 
would be like liberating a school 
of barricudas. We'd better watch 
out who we are liberating. before 
we add a new horror to American 
life. 
Shy students don't need a 
movement to help them. They 
need a human context with space 
in it like a harbor where they can 
be taken in and hugged. Scrip­
ture uses many mataphors to 
describe places of peace and 
rest: the sheepfold, the Father's 
house, God's holy mountain, the 
celestial City, the Everlasting 
Arms. When you break them 
down in the here and now, they 
mean people helping people. 
Christ left all of us, like Blanche 
Dubois, dependent on the kind­
ness of strangers. 
"And how am I to face the 
odds-Of man's bedevilment and 
God's?!I. a stranger and afraid1n 
a world I never made." 
The Little Prince, wishing to 
tame the fox, began by sitting 
very still until the fox got used 
to his company. As the days 
passed, the fox drew nearer and 
nearer. But of course you must 
read Saint-Exupery's story your­
self to see how the rituals for 
domesticating a wild thing are 
applicable to the shy ones, with 
whom we need to be patient until 
they learn to trust us. 
The shy, like the poor, we will 
have always with us. Zachaeus, 
I think. who hid in a tree to watch 
our Lord, must be the patron 
saint of the shy. They always 
have Bashful, the easily embar­
rassed dwarf who served Snow 
White, as their folk hero. 

& San Quentin Inmate Rlclr Cluchey Ullth hla playUirlght and dlt'ector Samuel Beckett. 
Notre Da111e'• oUin Knute Roche. 
Due to technical difficulties, Letters to a Lonely God has not been appearing every Friday. Starting this week, it will return to regular date publication. 
Notre Dame offers all kind of support groups to the various minorities; but who, these days, speaks up for students suffering from social shyness? In Lake Wobegon, Minnesota, I hear, a group of chronically bashful bac­helors and their dates -tired of feeling like nowers born to blush unseen and waste their sweet­ness on the desert air -have started a shy liberation move­ment. 
There is problably no hope at organizing the shy students of Notre Dame as a liberation group, since those who need it most. the terminally shy, couldn't be coaxed out of their rooms to show up for the meetings. If everyone needing help showed up, they'd fill the stadium, because most of us are shy about something. 
Before anyone begins to exam­ine himself (or herself) for telltale 
signs of shyness, he should be reminded that there are bloc'K­heads in the world who make life traumatic even for the arrogant. Have you ever been treated as though you were one of the in­visible people? Have you ever been introduced to a BMOC who never really sees you or spoken to a doll (with sawdust for a heart) who either ignores you or responds in a voice as lifeless as the taped voice of her answering service? 
You can tell that you are in­visible by the cold, dead eyes, like those of a zombie, that look at you without registering a nickerofinterestorcaring. lfyou feel humiliated, it's not surpris­ing; an insensitive extrovert would feel just as humiliated. Only a blockhead has the terrible manners which blinds him to people. 
None of us is perfect: we tend to be too young or too old, too fat or too thin, too poor, dull and unimportant. Yet even a drunk in the street. pestering you for beer money, is entitled to a little respect. One has to be stupid as a Christian to treat other human beings as though they had no feeling. 
Authentic shyness is the fear of taking pratfalls, physical so­cial or intellectual, while one is on stage or in any other public place or in the company of 
·--stfa.Agers or while alone with a 

-cJheJ:lbsener_-­

Want to get more involved with the feature department? 
Applications now being accepted for the following positions: 
I:~::=t~~:~:=tor _.._._.,,.....-u•owoo­
~ 
::: office, 3rd noor Lafortune. Coalact Mary Jacoby 
:;: :~: at 239-5313 for more Information. 
:;: 
t.:·:·:·:·:·:-:-:-:-:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:~:·:~:~:~:~:~:~:-:-:-:·:·:·:·:::::::::::::::::::-:!:::::::::::::::~:=:~:~:~:::·:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~::::!:!:!:!:!:!M:!:!:!::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::~:::~:::::::::::::::~ 
Tuesday, September 23, 1986-page 10 

Sports Briefs 
Tonight on WVFI-AM 64, "Speaking of Sports" will feature a split program tonight. with the first half being an open line for general sports talk. The focus then shifts to football as Irish split end Alvin Miller is the special guest. Hosts Rudy Brandl and Sean Munster will accept calls throughout the program beginning at 10 p.m. at 239-6400.-The Observer. 
Stepan Center court time requests are now available in the Student Activities Office, third floor of Lafortune. Deadline for applying is Friday, September 26. -The Observer 
Officials for interhall soccer, grad footbalL and women's interhall flag football are still needed. If interested call the NVA office at 239-6690. -The Observer 
The Domer runs are coming! Deadline to sign up for the Domer runs is tomorrow. Teams mauy enter individually or as a whole. Sign up at the dining halls tonight or at the NVA office. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC Cycling Club will have daily rides of 15 to 35 miles, weather permitting. starting at 4 p.m. on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, and at 4: 15 on Tuesday and Thursday from behind the Administration Building. All riders are wel­come. -The Observer. 
Non-Varsity Athletics announces that it is offering two eve­ning aerobics classes. "Late Night at the Rock" meets every Sunday, Monday, and Wednesday nights at 10 p.m. at the Rockne Memorial. The other class meets Tuesday and Thursday nights at 8 p.m. in Gym I of the ACC. Registration may be done at the NVA office. A complete listing of aerobics classes may be obtained by calling the NVA office at 239-61 00. -The Observer. 



Classifieds 

Penn State's Tlmote Manoa leaves two Boston College Defenders behind as he goes for extra yardage. Penn St. beat Boston Col­
lht• Oh.<l•rl'l'r :o-;olrt' l>dmt· ol1itt' lo<dlnl on Ill<' 1l11rd tloor ol I.JhoriUII<' ~tut.knt ( l'Otl'r. an·t·pt' tla"itit•ll Jd\l'rl"lll~ Irom<) J m 1111111 I pIll ..\loll<IJ\ throu~h l'ndJ\ 'l'ht' lll>st•rr·t•r ~Jint \IJn ·, olti< ,. In< Jlnl on 1la· 1hrrd tloor ol lfa~Q:ar Colk~t· C <·nt..r..ll'll'PI' tiJ"IIinh lro 1111 I! ~~~ p m untrl ~ p m . \Ion dJ\ lhou~h !'rolla• l>t·Jdhm· lm nv't d.l\ ''·""lin(, " ~ p m \II , IJ"ilin" mu't ht· pn·paod.t·itlll'r 111 r•·r"on or In m.nl 1 hJr~·· ,, Ill, t'llh p..r hH'l'hJr.ll I<'" ·r <Ia\· 
LOST WATCH, VERY SENnMENTAL USED EQUIPMENT FOR SERIOUS NEED 4 GA PITT TICKETS. CALL 277-I NEED PURDUE GA's.272-6306 PURDUE !! PARENTS ARE COMING. GOLD (COLOR) CARAVELLE BY AUDIOPHILES 0194. DESPERATELY NEED TWO G.A.'S.
NOTICES I· BULIVA, ENGRAVING ON BACK: To PhaH Llnur Autocorrelator (noiM re­NEED 10 PUROUE nx. MOM WILL CALL JOHN SCHOEN AT 1143. Steve, love mom and dad, 1:v.!H3 duction lor ell sources)-5100; Audio DESPERATELY NEED 4 GA'A FOR PAY TOP DOLLAR. CALL 277.0546. PURDUE!! PLEASE CALL STEVE AT 4659 WITH PuiH Digital Time Delay (to reproduce PURDUE GAME. CALL M.B. X3029 INFORMATION OR CONTACT AT 127 concert hell ambience; Incorporate• e NEED PURDUE GAS CALL MIKE 2535. Hungry? Cell THE YELLOW SUB·
TYPINGWORDPROCESSING. 
PANGBORN... REWARD OFFERED 25 wa~hennet emp. You aupply NEED 3 GA'S FOR PURDUE GAME. MARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery houra: CALL DOLORES 277-1131. 
!!!Ill eecond pelr of apeekers.) -$200; CALL CATH AT 294-4232. Mondey -Thursday 5pm-12am; Friday Heller 110 Prump (eudlophlle quality, NEED 1 PURDUE STUDENT TICKET -5pm-2am; Saturday 5pm-1am; Sunday FOUND: CALCULATOR ON THE rack-mountable) -5150. Also have NEEDED: AIR FORCE GA'S 284· EILEEN 288-1941 4pm-10pm.
TYPING AVAI~E SHUTTLE FRIDAY, 9-19. CALL recorda (meny digital and v.t apeed 4350,283-2344.
287-4012 
ELIZABETH 284-5013 TO CLAIM. meaters) and pre-recorded classical Tlxs needed lor Pm game. Call 1·303· Greg-Feeling chilly? Want something cesHttes. Call 277-5912 or 239--7133. NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA'S. CALL SUE 596·0095 to keep you warm? You're still not 284-4295. going to get II.
Wordproce..lng reaumea, etc. 
WILL TRADE TWO GA PITT FOR TWO 
Typeeet quality. 297-9024. 
FOR RENT Penn Stale Tlx Wanted. SSS Call 289-GA AIR FORCE. CALL SHAWN (614)
FOR SALE 
2841 464-5445. Bad & Break1ast football weekends NO One King 4B aymphony-quallty trom­Don't settle lor some fool with his
-SMC parents 545 per night 2 night min. bone with F 811achment -$700 or best I NEED 6 PURDUE GA TIX. FAMILY
BED 'N BREAKFAST rooms lor par­stereo to handle the music at your next ents on football special weekends. dance. We're professionals. And we're 
cloH to campus 684-1308 alter 6 p.m. serious offer. One Olds tenor student ARRIVES FRI. DON'T NEED TIX TO BE HAVE 2 PURDUE GA'S.BEST OFFER 
trombone-$100. Call Kelly Havens at Call 1·219-291-7153. the largest Independent DJ businessTOGETHER. PLEASE CALL PAUL BY FRI.CALL MARK 4016239-5637 mornings and afternoons. 
£2247 OR 2317 on THE DJs
campus. ONLY THAT HAVE 2 PITT GA's, NEED 2 PURDUE 
MATTER!! Pat 277-3687 711o 277-0973 NEEDED:ONE PURDUE TICKET,ANY GA's AND 4 ALABAMA TIX. CALL 
Don 283-3675 
TYPE,TOP DOLLAR PLUS PLEASE CRUISER AT 1988 OR PAT AT 1712. HELP ME.CALL PETE AT 232-9534 AT
LOST/FOUND JlL-_w_A_N_Te_o-----..~ TICKETS 
The authors ol the "hilarious guide for NIGHT OR EARLY MORNING.PLEASE 
the faithful, fallen, and the ln­IRREPLACEABLE! LOST MY SET OF 
PLEASE,THANK YOU THANK YOU SEASON FOOTBALL TICKI!TS! LOST TIX WANTED. SEASON OR SINGLE.
TYPIST$-$500 weekly at home! Write: between"GROWING UP CATHOLIC" 
P.O. Box 975, Elizabeth, NJ 07207 SPENT ALL LAST WEEKEND STUDY­will be at O'LAUGHLIN AUD. WED.
ON GREEN FIELD OR ON WAY TO 255-1343 AFTER 5:30. 
I need two Purdue tickets QUICK! 
ING ORGO & BIO-want to get WILD SEPT 24 8PM-ALL WELCOME!!
THE GAME. CASH REWARD OF­
Please call Dave £3679.
Help wanted pert time. Computer retail this weekend wfrlend at PURDUE
FERED. IF FOUND CALL KAREN AT I NEED 2 or 3 PURDUE tickets
store. Call 277-5026. game. NEED 1 TICKET-ANY PRICE!
277-5295 OR 272-1441. desperately! Call Mike at 283-1655. 
PURDUE AND PITT. STUDENT TIX 
ANGELA 3435 Help wanted part time. Computer retail 
WANTED! CALL "J." at 4364. 
LOST: Black sweatshirt with coloured Need GA'S for the SMU game.Mary
store. Call 277-5026. NEED 10 PITT TIXS OR SECURITY WOMEN'S SUPPORT GROUP,
paint on front. Last -at Alumni x3781 FOR 3 PURDUESSSS STUDENT BOY, WILL MY BROTHER KILL ME THURSDAYS, 3:30-5 P.M., UNIVER­Club, Wednesday, Sept. 10. Reward. 
Ride Needed this weekend to Twin TICKS. CALL 1391 111!1! IF YOU DON'T GIVE ME TIXS SITY COUNSELING CENTER. CALL
Call Marlene at 283-2628. HELP! I NEED 6 GA'S FOR EITHER
Cltles,MN call Rachael 284-5181. CALL JOE 239-7471 OR 239-7336 FOR INFORMATION. 
AIR FORCE OR S.M.U.! CALL X-4605 I NEED THREE PURDUE TIX-EITHER 283-1931. THANKSASK FOR TOM!
BABYSITTER WANTED. 6·12 HRS. A STUDENT OR GA. CALL DOC £3380. Dear secret admirer, thanks lor the MISSING: DARK BLUE BACKPACK WK FLEXIBLE. 287-3315. daisies and lhe arousing card. Please WITH BROWN TRIMMING-EASTMAN. Need GA's lor Purdue and Pitt. Call NEED ONE PURDUE STUDENT Identity yourself so that we can both 
LAST SEEN AT THE NO BOOKSTORE SKI All WINTER! Crystal Mountain Is Need 1 Purdue Ilk stud or GA call John 277-9794. TICKET get "hot" together. Kenny B. of 142 LOBBY TUES SEPT 16. WOULD THE now hiring children's ski Instructors at x2990 He's coming no matter what, and we Keenan PERSON WHO ACCIDENTALLY Help! Need 2 Purdue student or GA
lor the winter season. Salary plus don't want to leave a PICKED IT UP PLEASE RETURN IT. room & board. Contact Martha Mandel Help a young,dlstraught student who tlx. Call 272-9340. Big S Purdue guy In our room without some­
To ... ---..,___­
_.... .._._......,
CALL ANA MARIA AT 272-4313. or Dave Hofacker at (616)379-2911. needs GA TIX to PURDUE game. Life body watching him. 
hangs In balance.£2072. NEED 4 GA TIX FOR PITT-CALL ANNIE So please call Max at x1384. 
..... HAPPY llm'IHDAY, ANNE.. 1
AT 2756 TO ST. LOUIS THE WEEKEND OF DESPERATElY need two Purdue GAs 
HELP! MY FRIEND AND I NEED A RIDE 
•ou tolE -HAPPY llmTIIDAY,
ANNE..._..._.~.
REO JANSPORT BACKPACK,SHARP NEED MONEY? TRADE $ FOR CALCULATOR,PSYCHOLOOY BOOK, 
OCT. 4 TO LEAVE FRI AND RETURN lor parents. Will Pay BIG BUCKS. Call I NEED GA'S FOR PURDUE. PLEASE 
SUN. WILLING TO SHARE EXPENSES. Mike at 1563. PURDUE TIX. CHRIS1736 CALL ANNETTE 294-4312. 
AND STUDENT I D. LAST SEEN IN THE The authors of the "hilarious guide
PLEASE CALL DEBBIE AT 4304. 
EMPLOYEE LOCKERS OF NORTH 
NEED 2GA PITT TICKETS CALL 312-NEED! 4 GA PURDUE TIX CALL NEED 8 GA'S FOR PITT GAME. for the faithful, fallen, and the In­DINING HALL. IF FOUNO PLEASE RENEE 2930 between ''GROWING UP CATHOLIC"
HELP!!! Need a ride to COLUM­684-8326 COLLECT PLEASE HELP! CALL MARY AT 284­
CALL DAVE AT 2148. will be at O'LAUGHLIN AUD. WED.
BUS,Ohlo &26 or back &28. Desperate. 4419. Call Bath 4068 Needed: 2 GAs lor Air Force. Call NEED 2 PITT TIX £ 3364 SEPT 24 8PM-ALL WELCOMEII x2134. I have 4 PURDUE GA's 4 U! Best offer HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY, JOAN MOR­
FOUND: JEAN JACKET AT GAME. PLEASE CALL 284-4273 TO IDENnFY. 
NEED up to 4 PURDUE tickets! GA's by Wad 11pm. call Gonzo 3349 PERSONALS RIS!! LOVE VA, ANNIEFOR SALE or student. Will pay cash$$$! Call PAT (O'Rourke)-£1400. HELP! I NEED 2 OR 4 GA'S FOR ALL 
Theo majors and other Interested stu­dents: Do not miss the Informal dis­
Found: gold bracelet near lowers on HOME GAMES. WILL PAY CASH! OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, Friday P.M. Call£3599 to Identify. TV RENTALS -LOW SEMESTER CALL TOM AT 1774. CAFIRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE
DAD AND GRANDAD want to see cussion with Father Burtcheell tomor­RATES. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, NOTRE DAME beat Air Force. I NEED BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. row, September 24 at 9:45 PM In 341 
(2) will O'Shaughnessy.
TIX LOST AT MICHIGAN GAME. I'D FORMERLY COLOR CITY 272-5959. two G.A.'s-pay S's-(cash). I HAVE 2 PURDUE GA'S!! WILL EX­LIKE TO CATCH ANOTHER GAME CALL TOM NOW,233-7318 CHNG FOR 2 PITT OR BEST OFFER. "NOTRE DAME BEACH CLUB" T­
THIS SEASON. THEY WERE IN SEC­
FOR SALE £'S 3887, 3520 SHIRTS COMING SOON... EXCELLENT One GE Llght'n'Easy Steam and Dry HELP!!!!!!!!! QUALITY COMING TO HIS COY MISTRESS: US marla lime 
TION 32, ROW 35. PLEASE CALL MISSY 272·5465. 
Iron wllh a full-size, collabslble Ironing I desperately need student or GA tick­NEED 3 STUDENT OR GA'S FOR SOON... EXCELLENT QUALITY and place lor Thurs-no more per­board, pad, and cover. -$25. Call Kelly ets for the PURDUE. CALL TOM AT 1679. "NOTRE DAME BEACH CLUB" T­
sonals! 
Havens at 239-5637 mornings and af­PITTSBURGH and PENN STATE SHIRTS ONLY $8.00, ONLY $8.00, A BIG DATING GAME KISS FOR LOST FRESH WATER PEARL 
ternoons. games. Need 2 GA's lor Pitt. Call 288-2912. ONLY $8.00 ONLY $8.00, ONLY $8.00, THERESA BARNHART !!!! HAPPY NA­BRACELET NEAR FISHER, MOR­
(Yes, I am a PA native!) ONLY $8.00 "NOTRE DAME BEACH PLEASE CALL JENNIFER AT 3620. 
RISEY OR LEWIS ON SATURDAY 1933 Studebaker ROCKNE Mint con­If you can help, please call Michele at Help!Need 3 Purdue Tlx Stud. or GA CLUB" T-SHIRTS "NOTRE DAME NA-NA-NA-NINETEENTH!!!! LOVE 
REWARD. dillon. Call Clay Hamlin 283-1394 x3566. Call Woody 272-6078. BEACH CLUB" T-SHIRTS THE REST OF THE FUN BUNCH CHRIS, TANYA, MEG, AND HEIDI 
-
1be Observer 

Irish split end Milt Jackson prepares to make a move after making a reception in the Michigan State game. Rick Rietbrock takes a look at this talented senior in his story at right. 
~ --~­
Tuesday, September 23, 1986 -page 11 
Irish split end 
Jackson makes transitions 
the transition quite successfully. He has five receptions for 58 yards so far this season. 
Another transition Jackson has made successfully is the switch from young upstart to sage vet­eran. He says he has tried to be a positive influence on the younger players. 
"I like to lead by example as much as possible," he says. "Coach Cordelli has told me that the younger players respect me and really look up to me, so I try to use my experience to help them. 
"I don't like to ramble on and 
tell them what to do, but I do try 
to relate some of my past expe­
riences to give them an idea what 
to expect. 
"''ve been through it," he con­tinues. "I can use my successes and problems to tell them how to handle situations. 
Next year, Jackson will be on new turf once again. The future holds several different possibili­ties for him, including a possible professional career. 
"The pros is another step up the ladder and, naturally I'd like to give it a shot," he says. "But I came here for an education first and football second, so I'm prepared for anything. 
"''m currently interviewing for several Big Eight firms and a number of smaller Industries in case a pro career does not work out." 
While Jackson is quick on the field, he likes to slow down when he is off it. 
"I like to relax by just being with people," he says. "I also swim every morning which is very relaxing." 
Irish fans, on the other hand, have found Jackson's presence on the field very relaxing. 
SMC netters finish third at Dl. tourney 
By DEIRDRE FINN 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's ·volleyball team placed third at the Illinois Benedictine College Invitational this weekend, a substantial im­provement over last year's fif­teenth place showing. 
"The invitational was a good experience," said Belles assis­tant coach Sue Medley said. "It gave the team a lot of play in a short amount of time and ex­posed them to a variety of offen­ses." 
The Belles won five conse~­tive matches before losing to St. Xavier College, 15-9, 13· 15, and 13-15, in a semi-final match. 
The best match of the invita­tional was against St. Frances College. The Belles came from behind in two of the three games to win the overall match, 15-I I, 7-15 and 16-14. 
The Belles was the only one to win against the first place team, Illinois Benedictine College, 15­8, 15-9 and 15-I I. 
Medley expressed her enthus­iasm about the outcome of the tournament. 
"Coach Lampert and I were very impressed by the perfor­mance of the team. They play very well together." 
In her first match of the season, senior Julie Schroeder gave an exceptionally strong per­formance. Sophomore Margaret Feldman played consistently well throughout the day's matches also. 
The Belles next game will be against Goshen College on Sept. 25 at 6:00p.m. 
By RICK RIETBROCK 
Sports Writer 
Once again Notre Dame fans are getting used to seeing Milt Jackson hauling in passes. The senior split end missed all of last season because of an illness that among other things, caused a big weight loss. 
It has not been easy to talk about his comeback because it seems as if he never left. Receivers Coach Pete Cordelli at­tributes Jackson's quick return to his character. 
"Milt Jackson is a great per­son," he says. "He gives total ef­rort at all times and takes tre­mendous pride in what he does. 
"He's  well-respected  by  his  
teammates  and  he  is  a  real  
leader."  

Those who remember Jackson think of his quickness and out­standing hands. That combina­tion enabled him to be the second-leading Irish receiver in 
1984 with 28 receptions and four touchdowns. 
But this year-long layoff had to hurt Jackson, right? Wrong says Cordelli, and wrong again says Jackson. 
"''m pretty satisfied with my progress this year," he says. "I think I'm actually a little faster and just as strong so I feel very comfortable on the field again. 
When Jackson was suffering from the illness, however, he was not feeling so comfortable. But instead of worrying about the season he was missing. Jackson used the time to explore other areas. 
"I didn't worry about the game itself," he says. "I took time to organize the rest of my life by preparing to enter one of the Big 8 accounting firms." 
While Jackson was away, Notre Dame changed its coaching staff and its outlook, which he says has been his biggest adjustment. 
"Coach Holtz is hard man to 
work for," the soft-spoken senior 
says. "If we don't do something 
right, we'll do it again until we 
have it right. 
"Under the other staff, we 
would take it in and work on it 
the next day. This year we'll stay 
out until Coach Holtz is 
satisfied." 
Obviously Jackson has made 

-~.~--------------~ 
r 
Tuesday, September23, 1986-page 12
The Observer 

The ND Water Polo Club wins with style 
To be successful in tourmanent play, a team usually has to follow three important rules. The men's water polo club broke every single one, but the Irish still won two of three matches in the Indiana Water Polo Tournament last weekend at Bloomington. 
Rule One: Always practice as much as possible before entering competition. Actually, the team had been practicing in the water for only four or five days prior to the tournament. 
Rule Two: Always make sure to bring your coach to the tournament. Head Coach Greg Lambert who is also an assistant coach to the Notre Dame men's and women's swim teams, had to stay at Notre Dame to watch swim tryouts while the Irish left for Bloomington. 
Rule Three: Always win the first game ofthe tourn­ament. Notre Dame lost a tough opening game to host school Indiana, 12-11, in overtime Friday. The Irish then bounced back to beat Missouri, 10-8, Sat­urday morning, and Michigan, I 1-7, Saturday after­noon. 
"We have about five returning starters, so when we were in the water everything clicked," said Club Vice President Steve Coffey. "The new players played really well, and we played good defense." 
Goalie Matt Brehm was named the tourmanent's most valuable player, and Steve Gunther and Marty Watts led the Irish in scoring. 
The club plays at Chicago this weekend in a tourn-
Poll sets stage for No. 1 Oklahoma versus No. 2 Miami 
Associated Press  places despite victories.  South­ Michigan,  a  40-point favorite  last week, both lost and dropped  UCLA,  baylor,  LSU,  Michigan  
Notre Dame may have dis­placed Michigan State in the rankings last week, but this week the Spartans earned that ranking back. Michigan State, which began the season as the No. 20 team but dropped out last week after losing to Arizona State, returned as No. 19 after beating Notre Dame.  ern California, Maryland and over Oregon State, slipped from Iowa made the Top Twenty for third to fifth with 946 points after the first time this season and downing the Beavers 31-19. Notre Dame dropped out along Washington pounded Brigham with Brigham Young, Florida and Young 52-21 and rose from Georgia. seventh to sixth with one first­Alabama defeated Florida, 2 I -place vote and 903 points. 7, and moved up from fourth The remaining first-place bal­place to third with 1.020 points. lot went to Penn State, which Nebraska, a 59-14 winner over defeated Boston College 26-14 Illinois, jumped from sixth to but fell from fifth to seventh with fourth with one first-place vote 878 points.  into the Second Ten. Auburn climbed from I Oth to eighth with 722 points after trouncing East Carolina, 45-0, and Arkansas went from 12th to ninth with 639 points bv defeatina Tulsa 34-17. Rounding out the Top Ten is Arizona, a 41 ~17 victor over Oregon. The Wildcats, No. 17 a week ago, received 583 points. The Second Ten consists of Arizona State, Southern Cal.  State and Florida State. Last week, it~ was BYU, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Florida State, Texas A&'M, Arizona, Arizona State, UCLA and Notre Dame. Georgia lost to Clemson 31-28 and Notre Dame bowed to Mic­higan State 20-15. Meanwhile, Southern Cal upset Baylor 17 · 14, Maryland whipped West Virginia 24-3 and Iowa crushed Northern  
Also  in the Associated  Press  and 954 points.  LSU and Baylor, the 8-9 teams  Maryland,  Texas  A&'M,  Iowa,  Illinois 57-3.  
poll, the 2 I st meeting between  
the nation's No. I and No. 2 col­ 

lege football teams is on tap for 
Saturday when Oklahoma visits 
Bears overpower Green Bay, 25-12
Miami. 
That was assured Monday when the Sooners and Hur­Associated Press Green Bay's AI Del Greco, who Randy Wright in the end zone. picked off a Wright pass, setting ricanes remained 1-2 for the booted four field goals in the Wright escaped from McMic­up Butler's third field goal, a 27­third consecutive week. GREEN BAY, Wis.· Steve McMic­game, lined up for a 52-yard at­hael's grasp, but the officials yarder with 2:25 remaining. 
Oklahoma, 2-0, hammered hael was credited with a safety tempt with 8: 16 left in the game ruled that the quarterback had Minnesota, 6.3-0, last Saturday in the fourth quarter and Kevin and the Bears leading 13-I 2. But been in the defender's grasp. Prior to Del Greco's ill-fated and received 55 of 59 first-place Butler kicked three field goals as Dan Hampton broke through to Not only did Green Bay fall be­field goal attempt the officials votes and I, 175 of a possible the Chicago Bears won a hard­block the kick and protect the hind 15-12 but the Packers had had awarded Chicago corner­I, 180 points from a nationwide fought 25-12 NFL victory last Bear lead. to kick the ball to the Bears. back Mike Richardson a fumble panel of sports writers and night over the outmanned Green The Packers got the ball back Three plays after the free kick, recovery. But after viewing tele­sportscasters. Bay Packers. when defensive back Tom Flynn quarterback Steve Fuller con­vision replays, it was determined 
Miami, .3-0, was idle. The Hur­The Bears, 3-0, scored 15 picked off a Steve Fuller pass nected with Keith Ortego on a that wide receiver Walter Stanley ricanes received one first-place points in the final quarter to with 5:21 left in the game, but 42-yard pass play to give the never had possession of the ball. ballot and I, 104 points. defeat the Packers, 0-3, for the Green Bay was forced to start Bears a 22-12 lead wit.h 3:38 
Meanwhile, Alabama and Ne­71 st time in the 132nd renewal from its own 6-yard-line. remaining in the game. The incomplete pass made it braska moved up to the No. 3 of pro football's oldest rivalry. On the first play, McMichael On the Packers' next posses­fourth-and-5, and Del Greco and No. 4 spots, while Michigan There have been six ties. caught Packers quarterback sion, Bears safety Dave Duerson came on. 
and Penn State slipped a few 

INDUSTRYDAY'86
Irish 
continued from page 16 

September 24, 1986 
Kent State team which featured a great deal of depth and expe­rience. 
9:00am -4:00pm
"Overall we played much bet­ter in the game on Saturday," 

FAIR 
1st floor concourse of Fitzpatrick Hall 
said Lindenfeld. "The girls never gave up." 
*Make contacts for future employment 
*Learn more about engineering as a career 
Lindenfeld plans on working on drives. Ideally they should be 
* *Bring resumes Summer job opportunities for underclassmen 
sharp passes and kept on the ground. However, the team has I I I I not been getting enough power 

6:00 -6:30pm
in them, resulting in deflections by the defense. 




MIXER 
Concourse ofA.C C. 
Lindenfeld also noted that sophomore Leslie Lawrence played very well, and she contin­ued to praise the play of junior goalie M.J. Beetel. Beetel was im­pressive in goal. collecting a total of 32 saves despite very rough field conditions. 
The Irish will be looking for a victory this Friday when they will take on the visiting Boilermakers from Purdue at Cartier Field. 
ament that will include Loyola and Northwestern. 
• 
This pastweekend the Rugby Club members found out what a difference a week could make. 
After getting shut out by Michigan 26-0 in their season opener September 13, the Irish hijacked the Dayton Flyers, 22-4, last Saturday. Sean Evans scored 12 points on penalty kicks, Phil Sheridan added four points with a try, and Andy Shea played a solid game at second row. 
"We're starting to come together. We looked a lot 


Steve Megargee 
Club Corner 
better than last week," said Club President Quentin Williams. "Dayton's not a bad team. They had 75 guys out there." For comparison, the Irish have just over 40 players. 
Notre Dame's B side edged Dayton's by a score of 4-3. 
This weekend, the Irish will be seeded first in the Indiana-Kentucky Tournament a tourney that will include seven collegiate teams and seven men's clubs. 
Also looking forward to tournament action is the Rowing Club. The varsity men's team will take two eights and two fours to the Head of the Des Moines in Des Moines, Iowa, while the varsity women's team will bring two eights and one four. 
During the last two years, the men's club has done well enough in Des Moines to earn the Well ness Cup, an award given to the boat that rows the fastest time over the course of any events. 
"Des Moines is a good warmup for us. When we go up to Ontario (October 4), we run into tough competition with Canadian universities and clubs," said Club President Joe Brunetti. 
The women's team, which has enjoyed similar suc­cess at Des Moines, has a familiar face as its new coach. Head Coach Clete Graham is a graduate of Notre Dame, and he coached the Irish to two con­secutive Midwest Rowing championships in the 1970's before leaving temporarily. 
• 
After starting the season at 1-3 with a series of 2-I games, the Women's Soccer Club has won two straight games, including a 5-0 rout of the University ofChicago at Stepan Field last Sunday. Jane Titterton scored two goals for the Irish, and goalkeeper Cathy Dominick recorded the shutout. 
With a 3-3 record, Notre Dame already has as many victories as in last year's 3-7 campaign. 
• o UP eo a casu 
--..~-~--------------~~~--w~<-~A------·---------=------~-~-----~ 
The Observer 
Tuesday, September 23, 1986-page 13 
Computer Science & MIS Students 



SHARE THE INSPIRATION. 
l I 
~ 
I j 
l j 
l l 

1 
he rush of 
you have the adrenaline. The right credentials for surge of excite­ACCENT. ment. The flash If you're a highly­
of inspiration. Familiar motivated person, an in­feelings to talented DP dependent worker, and professionals at The an innovative thinker, Travelers. And to the you have the right chem­promising graduates istry for ACCENT. 
who'll join us this year. 
You've discovered these feelings in your academic work. Recognized them in the elegance of advanced technology. And now you can share in them at The Travelers, where the support is stronger, the environn1ent more sophisticated and the applications more challenging. 
As a distinguished Computer Sci­ence or MIS graduate, you now have.a difficult decision to make about your future. That's why we created ACCENT. A fast-paced, competitive program. ­Offering technical and management training through a diverse range of assignments leading to key professional positions. 
All in one of the most advanced DP environments in the financial services industry-including the largest IMS shop, 18 IBM mainframes and a 36,000 terminal SNA network. 
But our commitment to staying on the cutting edge of DP technology doesn't stop there. We've recently installed 13,000 IBM PCs, integrated the latest 4th generation languages, and we're developing our future leaders with ACCENT. 
If you have a degree in computer sci­ence, MIS or a related discipline, high academic achievement, exposure to hardware and software, and some 
. .
programming expenence, 
The Travelers Companies, Hartford, Connecticut 06183. 
Now make the right move. To The Travelers ACCENT pro­gram. Where you'll find varied and valuable learning experiences. A sup­portive human environment and a sophisticated technical one. And where you'll find plenty of opportunities to help move you ahead. 
You'll also receive a competitive sal­ary, complete benefits and even an IBM PC AT to take home with you. Plus gen­erous relocation assistance to our Hartford, Connecticut home office. 
So, if you're a bright and talented computer-oriented n1ajor, join The Travelers. Where the accent is on you and the inspiration is shared by all. 
Find out more about signing up for The Travelers interview schedule. Recruiters will be on campus Friday, October 10. Or, send your resume to: Priscilla Pellett, 30-CR, The Travelers Companies, One Tower Square, Hartford, CT 06183-7060. I 
l 
l 
l 
j 
Data Processing i 
j 
for Dedicated People. I 
' l 
j
TheTraveler~ 
An Equal Opportunity Employer. 

P""""""-~--------------,----------------~-----------------------~------~---..... 
The Observer Tuesday, September 23, 1986 -page 14 
Women's football enters new season 
By FRANK HUEMMER 
Sports Writer 
Women's interhall football began this past weekend with a limited slate of action. And just as the fans await the dawn of a new era under Coach Holtz. wo­men's inter-hall football fans eagerly await a new champion. 
Farley Hall has dominated the gridiron for the past five years. but they could be challenged this year by Breen-Phillips and Pasquerilla East. This weekend proved the competition would be ready and would be trying very hard to upend the defending champs. 
Flashes of lightning filled the sky as Farley and P.E. played in a rematch of last year's champi­onship game. The game. 
SMC soccer 
loses two 
on tlre road 
4t'By JANE SM[A 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's soccer team two away gam~this weekend both ended in de(eat. bringing the team record to 2-5. 
Saturday the Belles took on Quincy College and lost. .3-I. Sunday, Lindenwood Colleg bounced the Belles. 4-0. 
The past Wednesday the Belles lost to Michigan State by a score of 8-1 . 
The team's only goal was scored in the last fifteen minutes of the ga~ by senior captain Mary Anne Perri. 
"The Michigan defense put alot of pressure on us," said Belles coach John Akers. "but we did not give up." 
The last time the Belles expe­rienced a victory was a week ago Friday when they defeated Notre Dame in an exiting overtime vic­tory. 
The first goal was scored by sophomore, Ellen Boyle and the game winning one was made by freshman, Molly Meehan. 
In the lost to Quincy the one goal scored was shot in by Perri during the first half. 
The Belles had the lead throughout the first half, but were unable to stop Quincy in the second half. 
"We could not maintain our lead," said Akers. "after the eigth hour bus trip." 
According to Akers another negative factor was "the large. unfriendly crowd we played for." 
Sunday's game did not offer much relief for the Belles be­cause they had to play on astra turf, a surface which the team had never played upon. 
In addition the temperature on the field was over I00 degrees. 
The Sain~ Mary's team played hard despite all the opposing fac­tors. 
The freshmen players added much to the game especially Celeste Aquino. Nancy Haske, Coleen Keefe,Caroline Knoll, Molly Meehan and Kathy Revane. 
"(Junior goaltender) Patti Hat­field had two good games," said Akers. 
Even though the Belles lost both away games the trip was a good experience for them and will help them in the future. 
Making Saint Mary's bus ride home even longer was a nat tire they had in Joilet.lllinois. 
The team's arrival home was delayed until 6:.30 A.M. Monday morning. 
The Belles play again on Sat­urday at home against Purdue. 
Hopefully the team can "put things together" said Akers during the week. 
stopped with 6:42 remaining due to the ~eather, had P. E. supply­ing all the thunder as they were leading. 14-6. The final 6:42 will be played at a later date. 
Pasquerilla East struck first as its high-powered offense took charge with a .30 yard pass from quarterback Colleen Donnelly to running back Annie Schrenk. With the ball on Farley's five-yard line, Colleen O'Connor raced five-yards for the touchdown and Colleen Donnelly rolled in for the two-point conversion, giving P. E. a quick 8-0 lead. 
A drizzle began at the start of the second half, with P. Eclinging to the 8-0 lead. However, Farley took the opening kickoff from the 45-yard line and punched it in for six. 
The touchdown came on a big 

The Observer 
is accepting applications for the following positions: 
Copy Editor Day Editor 
Appllcadoasare due by Friday, Sept 26. Iaqulrlelsboulcl be made to Tripp Baltz or Mark Pankowski CaD 139-5313 or come up to Tile Observer's new offices on tbe tbinl Door of tbe LaFortune Student Center. 

Eras••• Books 
1027 E. Wayne Tues -Sun, noon o 6 1 block south ofJefferson & Eddy 
232-8444 UMtl A -•of p....t boob!--..t. -ld,......:lied 

15% OFF EVERYTHING IN STORE! except sweats 
Complete outfitter for intramural sports FOOTBALL AND SOCCER SHOES NIKE & ADIDAS D NIKE Open Field (white) $25.00 
D All CONVERSE Basketball shoes $15.99 
(except tlae ..,eapoa) Sr 238 Edison Road 
Mon-Fri 10-6 
(across from King's ) 
Sat 10-5 
277-7284 

COMING!~··
·· 
SPRING . 
BREAK · .. 



/.l,~ ~~­
w DOITALU ~ 
I J£Condition In Booth TanlnBeda 
0 
Relax on Massage Bed 
Call277-7026 
J.M.S. PlAZA 
4609Grape Road Mishawaka 
--~ 
ND Apparel Headquarters 
2 1-yard run by Sue Schwarz. closing the gap to 8-6. The two­point conversion pass from Marilu Almeida was incomplete, keeping P.E. in the lead. 
Pasquerilla East came right back with Donnelly and O'Connor hooking up on a .34 yard strike, giving P. E. a 14-6 ad­vantage. Then Mother Nature took over where P. E. left off by putting on a great lightning dis­play that filled the skies and halted the action. 
"I was very happy." said P. E. head coach Jeff Morgan. "I wasn't sure how we would do be­cause we had a lot of first year players. But we are looking for­ward to a great year." 
Farley coach Phil Kalamaros, 
who has directed Farley to three 
championships. and coaches Dave Haimes. Frank Parigi. and 
Steve Auerbach feel that they will bounce back and be heard from in the end. 
In other interhall action, Badin and Walsh both were handed losses because their insurance was not turned in to the NVA of­fice on time. Meanwhile, Breen­Phillips recorded a 14-0 shutout over P.W. 
"Our execution today was bet­ter than in any practice we've had. and defensively we shut them down," said B.P. head coach Dan DeBoer. "We have a definite chance at the champion­ship." 
There will be plenty of exciting women's interhall action in the remainder of the season, espe­cially with the three-way battle for the league crown. 
Call/oran appointment Ifyou can-but ..,.Ur. Ina are •elcorne. Open euenfng• tU 7:30 
THE VARSJn'SHOP £dfaon Road at 23 277-0057 ltf-J'H11-7:!10: Frl11-6: S.t 11-5 
-·~-.,.,~~l 
DUN & BRADSTREET~ 
Corporation 
will present an informal presentation 
Wed., Sept. 24 7pm-9pm 
Upper Lounge ofUniversity Club 

Bradley 
continued from page 16 
and 15-6. 
Notre Dame was hurt throughout the tournament by the limited play of sopho­more middle blocker Mary Kay Waller. who saw little action due to illness. 
"It's difficult to replace someone who hit for a .700 (kill) percentage against West­ern Michigan." said Lambert. "But we moved Maureen Shea to the middle and she did very well." 
The Irish also were led by sophomore middle blocker Zanette Bennett. who posted 2 I kills against Kansas and 22 kills against Bradley. 

Ambassador Romaald Spasowski 
~Liberation ofOne: A Journey to Freedom' 
Tuesday, Sept. 30 at 8:00pm Washington Hall 
.._________Reserved seats $1.00 available Wednesday, Sept. 24 to Tuesday, Sept. 30 ----------• 
L__ 

Tuesday, September 23, 1986-page 16


SRorts 
Notre Dame takes 2nd place in weekend Bradley tourney 
By BRIAN O'GARA The two teams battled to a 2-2 The two teams then prepared Sports Writer tie in games before the Irish took to do battle for the game which command and blistered Butler, would determine the tourney The Notre Dame volleyball 15-3, in the decisive Fifth game. champion. The Irish and team placed second this Jayhawks battled back and forth,
Next up for the Irish was ho~t
weekend in the Bradley Tourna­alternating the lead in dramatic
Bradley, from which Notre Dame 
ment in Peoria, Ill., and returned fashion. Kansas pulled ahead
took a quick two game lead, 15­
home with an overall record of late, however, and held on to
13 and 15-7. Although Lambert's
7-4. defeat Notre Dame, 15-I 1.
squad then dropped game three,
The Irish have now competed "The match with Kansas was a
13-15, it shook off the loss and
in three tournaments in as many toss-up," said Lambert. "If we
rediscovered its serving and
weekends, winning the Rice played them later in the season
passing games to defeat the
(Houston, Tex.) Tournament last with a little more experience be­
Braves, 15-8, and take the fourth
weekend and finishing second in hind us, I'm sure we'd do much 
game.
the Hoosier Classic two weeks better." ago. Saturday morning brought the Kansas threw the Irish off a 
"We are coming along very Irish their stiffest competition of number of times with a combi­well," said Notre Dame head the weekend, the Kansas nation of lips and kills at the net coach Art Lambert. whose team Jayhawks. The two teams hitting around the Irish. is now at what he terms the heart matched each other point-for­of the season. point in game one, but in the "We block relatively well but 
end the Jayhawks prevailed by a we've got to work on adjustingBeginning with Wednesday's slim margin, 15-13. to the off-speed stuff," said Lam­home match against Bowling Notre Dame came back to take bert. "When teams learn that theyGreen, the Irish now face a tough the second game, I 5-I 0, but can't hit through us, they're hit­2 1-game schedule of dual dropped the third game by an ting over and around us."
matches leading up to post­I 1-15 score. With their backs to In the final game of the season play in November. 
the wall, however, the Irish put weekend for the Irish, they easily 
Notre Dame opened this forth their best effort of the defeated 51. Louis, 15-1. 15-2, weekend's Bradley Tournament tournament to defeat Kansas on Friday evening against Butler. handily, 15-4. see BRADLEY, page 14 
Pangborn beats Alumni in Interhall football league upset 
By KEVIN MCCORMACK the defending lnterhall cham­other problem is that we had In a game marked by first-half Other scores in the Parseghian pion. To everyone's surprise, some key injuries as well. That division were all lies. Off­
Sports Writer penalties and mistakes, Flanner will be a problem because of the
Pangborn won in an upset 9-7. was able to capitalize early when C:~mpu~ mc~lched Keenan, 7-7. The much anticipated men's Relying on a strong passing at­limited size of the team." it found the end zone on a seven while Grace combined ~o~.ith 1'1or­lnterhall football season began tack and a stingy defense, Disgruntled Alumni coach Paul yard run. risscy for a 6-6 score. this Sunday with a full display of Pangborn jumped out to a 3-0 Laughlin had nothing but praise However, the missed In the Rockne eli\ is ion, it 11-·as
conver­hard-nosed defensive perfor­lead at the end of the first half for Pangborn and expressed St. t:d·s C)\'er Carroll. H-6, ~o~.·hile
sion proved costly. After finally mances. on a 41-yard field goal by Jeff befuddlement about his own ball Sorin defeated Howard, 12-0. In
putting together a sustained When Sunday's action was Laurensen. club. that ~~ame. the Otters' Pat Ken­
drive, Dillon scored late in the over, lnterhall commissioner The "Violence", as they are "I don't know if it was nedy scored on run~ of I 0 and
game on a three-yard run by Joel Jim Moore said he had expected nicknamed, then continued their Pangborn's offense or our 17 y;mh in the first and fourth
Soltis, and made the conversion defense that determined the vic­
the games to be low-scoring big-play passing attack with to preserve victory. Particularly quarter~. respecti\'cf}. Tlw first across the board. senior Tom Halpin completing a tory," said Laugl1lin. "We just was set up by c1 Mike Jeffries in­
strong on the drive ~o~.·ere quarter­"Usually, the higher scoring long pass to junior Rob Kassler didn't have the quickness today terception.
back Pat Marget and end !~ill (games) come later in the at the one-yard line. Pangborn that we needed. However, I'm not who combined on
O'Neill, two season, said Moore. "The then scored on a one-yard pass surprised by Pangborn's strong Sorin Coach l'like Scotty, ot)\·i­
big passes. defense is strong earlier in the from the same combination of performance. The)•'re a good Coach Charlie Rice of Dillon ously ca_utious about his team's season because of the fact that Halpin to Kassler. 
early tcclm perfonnance. was
did not appear to be too l1appy the guys are still getting into A late 60-yard pass from team." with his team's performance, nonetheless happy about the vic­shape. However, there were Alumni's freshman quarterback In other Leahy division action, tory.
however. 
Tom Krebs to senior Bill Kelly Stanford defeated Holy Cross, 7-"It's re<~lly tough to s<~y say
enough highlights among the · games that the season will be closed the gap to 9-7, but as the 6, while Zahm defeated "We killed ouselves with mis­after one game." he said. "Kul tight and exciting season." saying goes, to little, too late. Cavanaugh, 6-0. takes and our defense held a let yeah, I v.ds pleased ~o~.·ith win­
Highligting the action of the ''I'm very glad we won," said In Parseghian division action, down as well. .. l1e said. "The pos­ning. A ne~o~.·cmner to the day was the contest between Pangborn head coach Dan Sher­the Dillon Big Red got a strong itive side of the game was that Rockne di\ i~ion and to interhall Pangborn, a recent newcomer in man. "But we couldn't estsablish late-game drive for a touchdown we won and that will help us in football, risller, had a bye this 
the Leahy Division, and Alunwi, a consistent running game. An-to defeat Flanner, 7-6. the future." week. 
ND loses twice 
-
In. away games 


Dillon football's punt team watches the ball bounce after a Flanner punt returner decided to let it roll. Dillon beat Flanner, 7-6, on the opening 
weekend of the lnterhall football season. Kevin McCormack has details in his story above. 
proud that her team did not back down from the 
see IRISH, page l2 





