-
------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Best of rock-pages 6,7 

VOL XX, NO. 73 TIJESDAY, JANUARY 21, 1986 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Ma11·'s 
Divestment,


Two ND students 
endorsement

named recipients 
resolutions of Rhodes honor approved 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI By PEGGY PROSSER Both scholarships offered two Senior StaffReportt!f" .Staff Reporter years ofstudy in a British university, 
but Abowd chose the Rhodes for its 

Notre Dame is proud to announce prestige, saying, "I thought later A resolution asking student the awarding of two Rhodes scholar· down the road it would open doors opinion on divestment from South ships to seniors Greg Abowd and for me." Theresa Doering GregAbowd Africa by Notre Dame was passed by Theresa Doering, according to Nat· Doering, an English and German the student senate last night and will han Hatch, director of the Institute major from South Bend, described graduation, then eventually enter Doering said she was pleased to appear on the student government of Scholarship in the liberal arts. her surprise at the news that she had graduate school. be selected for those reasons, saying, election ballot March 4. The senate Hatch is also one of the faculty mem· won the scholarship. Now, she said, she will use her "It gave me a lot more confidence in also changed student government hers involved in the application and "I was pretty surprised, because scholarship to obtain a Master's myselfto have these people take me election rules to allow for endors­endorsement process for the Uni· the competition at the interview degree in European literature, with a seriously. You hear things about ments by student leaders and official versity. was pretty stiff. There were at least possibility of extending the scholar­English majors, and I'm glad they're organizations. 
The two were notified of their four (others) I thought could get it," ship for further study. finally paying attention to us." Student Body President Bill Healy award the afternoon of Dec. I'5, after she said. It is a first for Notre Dame to have introduced the resolution which having gone through a grueling day Abowd said he was originally Eventually, Doering said, she two Rhodes scholarships winners, asks the students, "Should Notre of imerviews, Hatch said. planning future study in computer would like to work on an editorial according to Hatch. Their success, Dame divest from companies which 
Abowd. a math and physics, major science, with a posslblllty of joining level in the publishing field, hope­he said, was due In part to the Uni­have operations In South Africa?" from Michigan, was also gJven a Mar· a mathematics or computer science -fully in an International book versity's careful screening process, Students will be able to vote yes, no, shall scholarship, but had to choose department at the university level. publishing house. set up much like the actual scholar­or no opinion/not informed enough. between the two several hours after With his scholarship, Abowd said In past years, the Rhodes scholar­ship interview. John Ginty, student senator, said winning the Rhodes scholarship. he will study mathematics at Oxford ship has been given to individuals "Our success Is indicative of the he didn't think the senate should be 
"I just t.hanked God and said a University, then eventually "go into who demonstrate athletic strengths of the student body which tackling the divestment question. "I little prayer," said Abowd, describ­a hot field in computer science." proficiency along with strong Notre Dame draws. It shows the ing his reaction when he was told he Doering said she had planned to academic and leadership abilities, talented students we have," Hatch 
see SENATE, page 4 
had won the Rhodes scholarship. work In a publishing house after according to Hatch. said. 
Church teleconference discusses women's role 
~.;;': 
:rl By MARK PANKOWSKI one of three members of the Ad­AssistantNews Editor visory Council taking part In the
·~ 
teleconference. "They're looking for 
Women should not be priests, said ... anywhere that it says women can­
the president of the National Con­not be priests," she said. 
ference of Catholic Bishops, speak­The two-hour-long telecon­
ing last night during a nationwide ference, beamed by satellite from 
teleconference on the recent bis­WNDU-TV and shown at Notre 
hops' synod in Rome. Dame in the Center for Continuing 
Instead women should continue Education, began with a documen­
their "meaningful participation In tary on the synod convened last 
the Church" in parishes and ad­December by Pope John Paul II. 
visory councils, said Bishop James The synod's purpose was to assess 
Malone, one of the American the state ofthe Church 20 years after 
representatives at the Extraordinary the Second Vatican Council, during 
Synod ofCatholic bishops. which several reforms were fas. 
But a member of the U.S. Catholic hioned in an attempt to modernize 
Bishops National Advisory Council the Church. 
disagreed. After the 30-minute-long 
Bishop james Malone, speaking during a two­ber. The teleconference was broadcast nationwide 
"A number of women think they documentary, Malone said Vatican II 
hour-long teleconference, discussed several Issues by satellite and shown last night tn the Center for 
have the capabilities (to be relating to the bishops' synod completed in Decem-Continuing Education auditorium. Story at right. see SYNOD, page 4 
priests)," said Dorothy Cordova, 

------------------------~ 

Construction progresses in LaFortune Center face-lift 
Dedrick. "Although we got ahead remodeling. In March, the publica­lower level will resemble a mallm 
ofschedule on our inside projects, overall we are still a little bit be-der to let the workers get started." said. hind schedule." Over the summer, The Huddle · The eastern half of the lower 
Renovation tions will begJn moving out in or­Basement the west side ofthe basement, Neal 
completion approaches
The lobby on the main floor and 

will be expanded throughout the level will mainl} be a recreational the ballroom on the second floor, new addition on the east side ofthe area, including pool tables and 
both located on the west side of


pushed back completion
building. The new Huddle will table tennis. Also located In the the building, are temporarily have two serving lines and seat 360 east side will be The Undergroundclosed due to the installation of a people, Dedrick said. By PATRICK CREADON T-Shirt Shop, a 24-hour laundry 
By PATRICK CREADON sprinkler system and an air con­A new elevator shaft and stair­News Staff room, and a large television News Staff ditioning system, Dedrick said. well will be added to the central lounge, she said. 
The first floor lobby will reopen part ofthe building, he said. Additional activities for students "Presently we are deciding on The renovation tor the Friday, Jan. 31, whereas the The Student Activities offices will accompany the LaFortune Stu­whether to have two large screen LaFortune Student Center has fal­upstairs ballroom will remain will be relocated on the second dent Center basement renovations televisions or only one. If we 
len behind approximately two closed until the middle of floor, along with the addition of an as part ofthe entire reconstruction decide to have two, we will placeFebruary, he said. 
weeks due to bad weather during assembly room and new furJlish­ofthe building. one television at either end of the the months of November and According to Jon! Neal, director ings, Dedrick said. According to Joni Neal, director room and install a temporary wall December, according to Don of student activities, other parts of Also, according to Dedrick, new of student activities, "The base­or partition," Neal added. Dedrick, director of the Physical the building will be closed offover additions to the third tloor will in­ment is ready except for furnish­According to Rob Hoover, Stu­Plant. the summer. "After commence­clude new offices, conference ings and lighting. The workers will dent Activities Board business 
"Because of the weather, we ment, The Huddle and the publica­rooms, and extra storage space. be out ofthere in two days." manager, there will be nine shops stopped the outside work and tion offices on the third floor will Much of the lower level will be started working inside," said both undergo construction and s.ee DELAY, page 3 used for commercial space. The see BASEMENT, page 3 
---~--~-------------­
The Observer Tuesday, january 21, 1986-page 2 


In Brief 
The campus computer store, which is now vacant due to the financial problems of General Micro, will have a new company take its place, said Roger Schmitz, dean of engineering. Schmitz, who also serves as assistant to the provost for computers, said they expect to have a new company within two weeks. He said various alternatives are under consideration. Among them is the ac­tual location of the store. The old store, located in the basement of LaFortune, was occupied by General Micro, a national computer supply company specializingin Apple products. When they declared bankruptcy in December oflast year, they were forced to close the campus store. Schmitz said the replacementcompany "will no doubt handle a broader range ofproducts, in addition to Apple." He said he . was reluctant to give many more specifics because all the al­ternatives have yet to be explored. But he said that a new company will be found. · The Observer 
Heavy snowfall of up to 17 inches hit parts of Ohio, West Virginia and Pennsylvania unexpectedly early yesterday, cut­ting electrical service to nearly 50,000 customers, closing schools and snarling morning traffic. "Snow was expected but the amount of snow that fell was unexpected," said National Weather Service forecaster Jerry Orchanian in Charleston, W.Va. "We've had acci­dents all over the place," said Pennsylvania state Trooper Richard Marshall in Greensburg, Pa. The weather contributed to two Pen­nsylvania traffic deaths, police said. -AP 

Eastern Airlines said yesterday it will lay off 1,010 flight attendants and cut the pay and privileges of the remaining 6,000 in an effort to ward offcreditors' threats to declare default on its $2.5 billion debt. The attendants' union said an "all-out war" had been declared. "It is absolutely essential to get this company back on the financial footing it needs," said company President Joseph Leonard, adding that Eastern hopes to eventually recall the fur­loughed attendants. Eastern will maintain its flight schedule, he said. Earlier this month, Eastern's creditors ordered the Miami-based airline to get major labor concessions or face default on its $2.5 billion debt to about 60 lenders, including Chase Manhattan Bank, Citibank and a number of European banks. Eastern's $6.3 million profit last year was its first since 1979. Eastern Chairman Frank Bor­man said the airline has lost $335.5 million since 1960. -AP 
Of Interest 
Wisconsin Club off-campus members can pick up their January newsletters at the OMBUD office in Lafortune. The newslet; ter concerns the upcoming trip to the University of Wisconsin at Madison. -The Observer 
Wednesday lunchtast sign-ups will be held tomor­row through Friday in the North and South Dining Halls. -The Observer 
Toastmasters International at Notre Dame will hold its first meeting of the semester tonight at 6:30 in Room 223 Hayes-Healy. Please note the change ofday and time. -The Ob­server 
An Apres Ski Luncheon will be presented by Uni­versity Food Services at the North and South Dining Halls and the Oak Room Cafeteria today from 11:15-1:30 p.m., featuring a slalom beverage run and soup and sandwich buffets. -The Observer 
Academics and Athletics at Notre Dame will be the lecture topic ofFather Edmund Joyce tonight at 8 in the Knights of Columbus Building. The lecture and open house is being held in connection with the Knights membership drive. -The Observer 


, Weather 
The January deep freeze is ex­pected to remain on ice as it will be mostly cloudy and warmer today with highs in the low to mid 40s. A 20 percent chance of light rain tonight with lows in the low 30s. A 40 percent chance of light snow tomorrow with highs in the mid 30s. -AP 
Design Editor.............Jane Anne Rledfurd Design Assistant.............. Tracy Schindde Layout Staff............................... Rob l.uxrm Typesetters ................................. Larr) Bwkt: 
Mary Ellen Harrington News Editor .............................Scott Bearby Copy Editor......................... Margie Kersten Sports Copy Editors ............. Marty Stra.sen 
Eric Scheuermann Viewpoint Copy Editor.. Maura Mandyck· 
VIewpoint Layout.......... Melinda Murphy Dally Qttotes.. . ................. Tom Darrow Ao:em Copy Edtlf)r .......... Eric Bergamo _J._·...-enl Layuul .................... Shaton Emmite ND Day Editor...................... Ray Szafranski SMC Day Editor.................... Priscilla Karle AdDesign .................... Catherine Ramsden 
Allison Fahrenhoft Photographer ..................... Hannes Hacker Typists ....................................... Colleen Foy 
-Sarah Hamilton 
1be Obaervrr (liSPS ~99 l-4000) is published Monday 1hrough Friday except during exam and vacalion periods. lbeObaena'is published by the sludentsofth" llniversity of Noue Dame and Saini Mary's Colleg.,. Subscriptions may be purchased for 130 per year ( UO per sem.,sler) by 'M'iting 1be Obaena', P.O. Box Q. Noire Dame, Indiana 
4M~. 1be ~r is a member of 1be AMoclated Praa. All reproducllon righlS ar" rnt''"Ved. 



Chicago deserves to celebrate after 'bearing' difficult times 
All right. Forget from what part of the country you are. Just consider this question carefully and answer it truthfully. 
What city ~eally deserves a Super Bowl victory Sun­day? 
The answer, if you are really honest, is of course, Chicago. And this is not stated after considering who has the best players, offense, defense, etc. Some of us don't even pretend to be knowledgable about the technical aspects ofthe game. 
No, even people who hate the Bears, call them ar­rogant, and would like to see the destruction of every copy of "The Super Bowl Shuftle," must agree that Chicago has fallen under hard times as far as its image lately. More than whatever city the Patriots hail from, Chicago needs something to go right. 
Perhaps only a native of the Chicago area can really understand. But to help, pick up a copy of today's Chicago Tribune. There you can most likely read about the latest city official in­dicted in the recent FBI un­dercover investigation of suspected corruption in Chicago government. 
The latest "victim," Cir­cuit Court Clerk Morgan Finley was allegedly paid S25,000 from an under­cover FBI agent posing as a businessman, in return for his efforts in discrediting a rival business. 
Then of course, there is Operation Greylord, now well over a year old. Several judges are still waiting in line to be tried for bribery and various other crimes, such as fixing tickets for drunk drivers. The highest ranking judge of the circuit court, Richard LeFevour, just began his 12 year jail term in Kentucky. 
Add that to a City Council that hasn't agreed on anything for about four years and the embarrassment of having lost the Second City title, and you've got a city that deserves to celebrate in bars well into Monday morning. 
Patriots fans will point to the blatant selling of the Super Bowl, most of it using Bears players, who are milking this long-coveted moment in advertisements for all they're worth. 
Well, making money, legally and illegally, is what prominent Chicagoans like to do best. Recent events have proven that. The Bears are capitalizing on the Super Bowl just the way any normal Chicago per­sonality would: blatantly, quickly, and for as much as they can make. 
Chicago Tribune columnist Mike Royko wrote yes­terday that he belives the rest of the country pities 

BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 

Theresa A. Guarino 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor 

Chicago, a city that's been sitting around and waiting for a national championship from someone for years. 
That doesn't seem to hold true at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. For every proud Chicagoan, there's a sneering East coast native. However, it's interesting to note that many ofthose Patriots fans will head to bars in Chicago to watch the game, where hopefully they'll be quickly discovered. Too bad about those Indiana liquor laws. Watching the game in a South Bend bar would be a little less dangerous. 
Meanwhile, Chicago has five days left to enjoy its day in the sun. And no other city could enjoy this week so much. Today the city's Ric­hard J. Daley Center will be temporarily renamed Bears Plaza as a video screen will play highlights ofthe season. Fans will be able to have their pictures taken with cutouts of their favorite players. Sunday before the game a pep rally will precede a broadcast of the game to the crowd. And ac­cording to costume retailers, bear outfits, black sunglasses and blue greasepaint are selling out. 

Whether the team wins or not, the city will settle down to business Tuesday (after Monday's ticker tape parade). But this past week, Chicago got a shot of great publicity that even its citizens appreciated. Hopefully attention focused in that direction will be turned to everything else the city has to offer. 
So for those who still are not convinced that Chicago deserves to win Sunday, maybe the fact that the Bears are favored by ten-and-a-halfover the Patriots may help. 
I didn't want to have to resort to that kind of persua­sion. 


THE STUDENT SAVER GOING OUT OF BUSINESS SALE 
Ridiculously low prices on school supplies and health and beauty aids!! 

Everything must gol 
Wednesday January 22 Noon until everything is sold Basement of the LaFortune 

(enter through the south or ~west doors 



The Observer Tuesday, january 21, 1986-page 3 
• i .. r 


Happy birthday 
As part of the nationwide holiday celebration honoring Martin Luther King,Jr., the Centerfor So· cia/ Concerns provided a birthday cake and selected readings from King. The event was among 
The Ob&erver/Hannet Hacker­

several held throughout the community yesterday, including a day long celebration held at the Cen­tury Center. 

Board discusses traffic violators 
By PEGGY PROSSER 
StaffReporter 
Taking away the car parking privileges ofchronic traffic violators was among the topics discussed at the joint meeting of the Saint Mary's Board of Governance and Program· mlng Board last night. 
Along with welcoming the new director of student activities, Mary Ellen Smith, the boards discussed pos.~ible solutions to the parking problems, such as removing car parking privileges from students and assigning community service work. 
A"Toast to the New Year," dance 
was announced, to be held Jan. 31. 
The dance will be promoted "as 
something between a date dance 
and a mixer. You don't have to have 
a date, hut can bring one if you want 
to," according to Anne Marie Kol· 
Iman, ~tudent body president. 
Posters will be distributed to all 
Notre Dame dorms, and the dance 
will be held in Haggar College 
Center. 
Students are reminded to become 
more aware ofsafety when crossing 
Highway 31, Kollman said. She cited 
a study done by Richard Clebek, 
director ofsecurity for the College. 
According to the study, students are not using the proper signals to cross the street, thereby increasing their chances for accident, Kollman said. 
It was announced for those stu· dents interested in running for stu· dent body and class officers attend one of two mandatory meetings, to be held Sunday and Monday. 
A CPR certification class was an· nounced, to be held Wednesday, Jan. 29. Those wishing to take the class will be Certified in two hours, 


$2.00 oHa 16-inch pizza! 
Fresh, hot, great-tasting pizza from DOMINO'S PIZZA"'. Made to order and delivered In 30 minutes, guaranteed, or you get $3.00 off your order. 
And on TueSday, get $2.00 off any 16-lnch cheese pizza with 2 or more toppings. 
Just ask for TueSday's 
special. Available all day this Tuesday•.•only from 
Domino's Pizza. 





o,_(lr 
~ 
Call us: 
277·2151 
1835 South Bend Avenue Plaza 23 Center South Bend 
Our dnvers carry tess than $20.00. No 
fu'::";t~~":l:~..... 
Cl 1986 b:':ino's Piua, Inc:. 

Libyan military trains 1 high school students 
and there is no limit to the class size. The cost will be 12.00 and informa· tion may be obtained by calling Hag· gar College Center. 
The junior class will be sponsoring an 'RA Appreciation Day," and will be selling flowers and candy in the dining hall to be delivered to the RA's. Announce· ment of this will be made by the sec· tion representatives. 
Regina Hall president Mary Flynn announced a "Pre-Super Bowl XX Dance Party," to be held at the Saint Mary's clubhouse Saturday. The dance will be from 9pm to 2am, and will cost $1.50. Those wearing their favorite team's jersey wlll receive a discount, Flynn said. 
Citing lack of student help on weekends, difficulties with assigning overtime to librarians, and availability of resources for over· night use, Kollman announced that library hours would not be ex· tended, per student requests. Kol· lman explained these reasons, but said students could appeal this deci· slon. 
TRIPOLI, Ubya · All Ubyan high school students are required to un· dergo Intensive military training that includes preparation for pos· sible suicide missions, the military commander of a boys' school said yesterday. 
Agroup of Western reporters was taken to All Awarith High School In downtown Tripoli, where they watched uniformed students per· form military drills and firing ex· ercises with four Soviet-designed, BM-21 multiple rocket launchers. 
One of the students was Seifeddin Khadafy, the 13-year·old eldest son of Colonel Moammar Khadafy, the Ubyan leader who has warned that suicide squads would strike in the United States and Israel if the two ever attack this country. 
Seifeddin, whose name means "sword of the faith," seemed In· 


Basement 
continuedfrom page 1 
and services in the west side of the lower level, three of which wlll be operated by the SAB. 
The first of those three shops is The Irish Gardens Flower Shop, which will be located in the northwest corner of the basement. This is the only store returning from the old group of shops which resided In the basement last year. 
The second shop managed by the SAB will be named The Ticket Stub. According to Hoover, this shop wiU deal only with ticket related events. "Last year," Hoover noted, "we had a lot of trouble at Roc du Lac whenever a bigconcert was In town. The ticket lines would be so long that people in the shop who wanted to buy records would end up going somewhere else to buy their records rather than wait in those lines. As a result, we didn't sell too many records." 
The Ticket Stub Is also consider· ing selling tickets to concerts In the surrounding area and also to events in Chicago, but these plans are stiii tentative, according to Hoover. 

....._
* 
* ~ 1349 PORTAGE AVE. 
~ souTH sEND 
....._ 2D~~o 
~ 
* ~ 
* ~ 
....._ 
~ "wtttt ewrythlng" $999 10 toppings tor only olua tax* loppingllnelude ~hom. bocon,giOUnd bMI.
* 
llollan IOUIOge. mulhrooml, gMWI peppe!l, ona.. Hot pepoet~ and anchoAel upon =r-· 
(NO SUISJIMIONS OR DEL.EnONS 

....._ 

lt ~
* *
*
* 
* 
* I 
bplra: I 
Feb.4,1986 I

* 1 * 
* I l)~@m~·~ I * 
Jt 1--•-•Valu•bleCoupon•• N.D.u.l ! 


~******************~ 
tlmidated when presented to the reporters and made no comment. 
The reporters were not allowed to question the students In· dividually, but the demonstration II· lustrated the increasing militarization of Ubyan society un· der Khadafy's rule. 
The school's military commander, Major Saeed Ali Awedat, told reporters that all Ubyan secondary students · both girls and boys · un· dergo two hours of military training a week as a compulsory part of their <·urriculum. The training also In· eludes one month during each sum· mer vacation. 
Asked whether the students also train for the suicide commando mis· sions that Khadafy has threatened to launch against the United States and Israel, Awedat replied: 
"Yes. All Ubyans are training for suicide missions. We are all ready to launch such operations. 
The Cellar, the third shop to be run by the SAB, will be mainly a record store. "What The Cellar will be geared toward is college lis· teners. The difference between The Cellar and the record shop in The Hammes Bookstore Is that we wiU sell more than just Top 40 records. We will also feature releases off the English charts." 
Also available In The Cellar will be basic school supplies and small electronics, such as walkmans and portable stereos, Hoover said. 
Three shops which are currently located In the first floor ofBadin Hall will also be moved to the lower level of LaFortune. 
The University Barber, the Uni· versity Hairstylists, and First Source Travel Bureau will all vacate Badin in the near future. Janet Scoles, a law student and assistant at Badin Hall is not sure what the space will be used for In the first floor of Badin. 
"We would like to use It for the dormitory but we have not heard yet from the University how they plan to use the space," Scoles said. 
Other shops and services In the lower level of LaFortune Include a computer store, a copy machine room. and a "s,.,eets" shop, accord· ing to Neal. 
"The sweets shop will sort of be like an old-fashioned Ice cream 

~******************** shop. It will be run by University
....._ ....._ Food Services," Neal said. ~ ~ All of the shops located In the®
lt !7~ ~&Ji"l.:i)· ~ *west side of the lower level will sur· 
* ~~~ ....._ round a large lounge area. Although 
::::: most of the lower level will be open ~ unlil late at night, the only service
*which will be open 24 hours Is the
*·1-au_ndry_r_oo_m_._____ 
~Delay 
....._ 

..,..-continued/rom page 1
* 
Although construction Is behlml schedule, Neal said she Is sure the
*entire project will be co~pleted 
~ before the September 1986 deadllne. "Except for some furnish· logs and other small details, the
*building should be done on time." Dedrick said he Is enthusiastic 
~ about the complelion ofthe project. "By the lime the project Is com· pleted, we will have a well fur·
lt nlshed, very Interesting building for
*the students to enjoy." 
*
* 
*
* 
* 

Correction 
Because ofan editingerror, the Information In yesterday's front page photo caption concerning "The Tempest" was Incorrect. Iowa State University Professor Gregg Henry wlll appear in the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theater produclion of Tempest scheduled for late February. 

The Observer 


Ex-prisoners to live off -campus with students in ND, SMC project 

By LYNNE R. STRAND 
Staff Reporter 
In August of 1986, 10 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will be able to move into adowntown South Bend home with several former In­diana prisoners. 
This house, sponsored by the Dis­mas of Michiana, is a local answer to "one ofthe biggest social problems," said FatherJack Hickey. 
Hickey, the founder of the first Dismas house in Nashville, em­phasized that "a house without the students wouldn't be the same. There will be a big impact on academia which might help some (former prisoners) on their voca­tional choices. It will be a learning experience." 
"It's a chance to dosomething for someone else," noted Jim Roemer, director ofcommunity relations. 
According to Roemer, the benefits for prisoners include "immediately coming out of prison to live with youngpeople, beingpart of a community and family, having good conversations about the world, attaining writing skills and jobs, and seeing wonderful personal examples." 
"There are also as many benefits for the students," continued Roemer. "Students can live off­campus with a purpose, know what's going on in the community, and 


Synod 

continued/rom page 1 
had been "a blessing to the Church," 
and praised the bishops' synod for 
reaffirming "unquestionably the im­
portance of the Second Vatican 
Council." 
Following Malone's openingstate-


Senate 

continuedfrom page 1 
don't see how this has anythingto do with anything we do," he said. 
"This is a Board ofTrustees matter and I don't think we should be in­volved with it at all," Ginty said. "I think we should be directing the energy of the people here to other things." 
Kevin Howard, Hall President's Council chairman, said students should try to inlluence the Board of Trustees. "If there was a majority (favoring divestment) it would get on the A.P. (Associated Press) and make national news. It would be an embarrassment to Notre Dame. We could try to force their (the Boardof Trustees) hand," Howard said. 
"I don't thinkwe should come out 
with things like these that insinuate 
the Board of Trustees are bad 

band together for someone else. The 
students won't mind working with 
former students." 

The community will also benefit from the Dismas house, said Roemer. "Prisons are revolving doors which only costs the com­munity more. Most prisoners only learn to be better criminals." 
"Most people don't think about what happens when priSoners are let out," said Jane Anne Riedford, a Dis­mas house student group leader. "There are really no decent programs to bring them back into the community. 'Ex-convict' is a ter­rible term to carry when looking for a job. No wonder prisoners are back in after six months. 
"Prison in itself couldn't reform anyone," Riedford said. 
"Statistics say that prisoners with families don't go back to crime," said Kathy Royer, coordinator for service/social action groups at the Center for Social Concerns. 
Ideally, an equal number of men and women will be accepted into the Dismas house, Roemer said. He also noted that the prisoners will not be released early from prison and they are screened out for any sexual offenses. "There never have been major problems like assault and bat­tery in the other two Dismas houses located in Nashville and Memphis," Roemer said 
The Dismas house is "a nice 
ment, he and the Advisory Council members -Cordova, Donna Hanson and Thomas Melady -answered viewers questions phoned in from around the country. 
During this question-and-answer period, Malone supponed the Church's stands on abortion, priestly celibacy and Masses celebrated in the vernacular. 
people," said Ginty. I don't think we should make them look had." 
Steve Taeyaens, student senator, disagreed with Ginty. "I don't think we're trying to make them look bad. We're trying to give them some in­put into their future decisions," he said. 
The senate also changed student government election rules to allow non-monetary, public endorsments from student leaders and official or­ginazitions. Previously, such endors­ments were forbidden. 
Duane Lawrence, student body vice president, introduced the change saying "the people who are most informed ·on the issues should be allowed to say one way or anot­her who they favor." 
Ginty didn't think the rule needed to be changed. He said that although he didn't know why the rule was in­stalled, there must have been a good re;150n. "I don't think :mnmt· !Ja, 
residential home in South Bend's finest neighborhood at the turn of the century," noted Roemer. "The house's construction is beautiful and livable. It will be fixed up to very fine standards," Riedford said. 
Near downtown, the house is a 1 0 minute car ride or a 15 to 20 minute bus ride to both campuses. A car may be supplied, "so a student doesn't have to own a car," noted Hickey. 
"The house will be cheaper than a dorm," said Riedford. Each occupant will pay $21 0 per month. There will be one student and one prisoner to each room. Breakfast and dinner will be provided by community families Monday through Friday. All dinners are mandatory, Riedford said. 
The Dismas house project was in­itiated by Notre Dame student, Carol Gales, who spent her Summer Service Project at the Nashville Dis­mas house. A local businessman, T. Brooks Brademas and a group of in­vestors are financing the purchase and construction of the house. 
Hickey will be visiting numerous classes this week to recruit students. Applicants will be interviewed next week and be notified oftheir accep­tance by March 21, he said. 
Hickey noted that the Center for 
Social Concerns  will  hold  an  in­ 
formational  meeting  this  Friday  
from 4 to 6 p.m..  

Of the issues discussed, however, the Church's ban on women priests drew the most calls from viewers. 
like Cordova, the chairperson of the Advisory Council seemed to sup­port the idea of women performing the role of priests. Said Hanson, "I hope we women live longenough so it won't matter if you're a man or a woman." 
been hurt or damaged by this rule," he added. 
"People come to us and ask us. I think we should he allowt"d t< • ,-,.;. ,. our choice," said senator K.< . Culum. It seems to me that when you stan excluding people just be­cause they are a student leader or belong to a club, it's unfair," he said. 
Healy agreed. "You should let 
people speak up if they want to 
speak up. It's a person's right." 
Brian Holst, parlimentarian, said 
he thinks endorsments can hun the 
election. He said the elections might 
become a contest for endorsments 
and not of the issues. "A better can­
didate can be discovered by the 
people if they have information in­
stead of just endorsments," he said. 
The seitate also set the date for this year's student government elec­tions for March 4. Last year's elec­tions were held on Feb. 12. 

BANKING••• ON CAMPUS AT SAINT MARY'S 
1st Source Bank's office, located at Saint Mary's College in 
Haggar College Center, offers free checking to Saint Mary's 
and Notre Dame students and faculty. 
In addition, this office brings you the convenience of 24 hr. banking locations to serve you! 
Banking Hours-Monday through Friday 
Mon. thru Thurs.-11:30 a.m.-3:30p.m. Friday-11:00a.m. -4:00p.m. ~source 
•aank
Join Michiana's 1stTeam 
Member F.D.I.C.

for unsurpa~sed banking service! 
Tuesday, january 21, 1986-page 4 


Peaceful flying 

Popejohn Paull/ looks at one ofthe two doves be tries to release as symbols ofpeace during the Sunday's noon blessing from the window of his studio overlooking St. Peter's square. The Pontiff said he had special thoughts "for our brothers and sisters in Lebanon where the situation has become once again woTTying." 
Ifyou haven't met us yet••• Now's the timel 
we're friendly, convenient. good 
AP Plloto 
yet affordable. 



$6 haircuts 

BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
The Varsity Shop Edison Rd. at St Rd 23 277-0057 
Open 6days Evenings until 7:30 

Anti-Apartheid Fact of the Week In June 1983 the Surplus People Project reported that since 1960 there had been 3.5 million forced removals of Blacks from White areas. 





lC SKI SALE 
ONCE A YEAR YOU 
CAN PURCHASE AT 
RETAIL SELECT 
ROSSIGNOL, K-2 
DYNASTAR AND ELAN 
SKIS, AND FOR 1C 
WE WILL GIVE YOU A 
PAIR OF SOLOMON 
337 BINDINGS AND A 
PAIR OF LOOK POLES. 
THE 1C SKI SALE, 
DESIGNED FOR 
BEGINNERS AND 
INTERMEDIATES 
NOW GOING ONI 
~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

~i~~~_()__i_ll__t_________________
r_ue-sd-ay,_Ja-nu-ary_2_1,1-98-6--p-age-5 
With saDctions, America acts as Isreal's puppet 
Imagine standing in the Vienna airport on Dec. 27. You and your family are preparing to return from a joyful holiday visit. Standing at the T.W.A. baggage counter, you are patiently waiting to check your luggage while you laugh about the memories of another en­joyable holiday season spent in Austria. Sud­denly, you see several masked men burst through the front doors and point their machine guns at you, your family and your fel­low passengers. 
BillKrais 
save the whales 
Five minutes later the floor is splattered with blood; bystanders fall to the ground in hysterics; others hide their faces in horror. In just a couple of minutes, what was once a pleasant holiday scene has turned into a dreadful bloody massacre. Your blissful feelings of minutes ago have been fatally inter­rupted by a reckless band ofterrorists. 
Yet again terrorists have struck in a seemingly indiscriminate manner, consider­ing no one an innocent bystander. This is a crisis of epidemic proportions which is puz­zling world governments. World govern­ments are scratching their heads in bewilderment, because it seems that much of the Western world is being held hostage. Everyone is asking himself the same question: "What can be done?" 
As expected, President Reagan has proposed a precarious resolution: he has decided upon economic sanctions against Libya. There are two evident problems with this solution. First, it assumes that Libya is guilty for all terrorist activity. The State Department itself said the evidence against Libya is "circumstantial." It does not seem to be prudent public policy to aggravate rela­tions with the Arab world over "circumstantial" evidence. Second, as the United States' Western allies have astutely pointed out, economic sanctions do not work under these circumstances. . Critics of Reagan's decision point to former President Carter's grain embargo of the Soviet Union, imposed after the invasion ofMghanistan. The only loser then was the American farmer. 
In actuality, European allies have much to lose by imposing economic sanctions against Libya. Italy alone exports over S2 billion worth of goods to Libya; the Italian economy would be greatly affected by such sanctions. Overall, European exports to Libya total SB billion. Certainly Europe's hesitancy toward sanctions must be considered economical!Y· The United States has little to lose and little to gain by imposing sanctions against Libya; neit­her is dependent upon the other's business. So Reagan's proposal achieves no significant solution. It irritates an unstable government, Libya, and it isolates the United States, as no allies have rushed to Reagan's side. 
Why then does the United States become involved in the first place? The terrorist strike was intended for Israelis, not for Americans. And while five Americans were killed in the massacre, citizens of other countries were gunned down as well. So, why does the United States get involved? Is the United States simply a puppet of Israel, or is Reagan truly seeking justice? I must believe that the former is true. The Israelis whined and whimpered for a couple of days; they expressed disappoint­ment at the world's failure to join their call for revenge. After some arm twisting, Reagan and company rushed once again to Israel's rescue, changed their philosophy cohcerning this particular incident, and again assumed the role ofworld policemen. 
Even if it was politically proper for the United States to become involved, it has chosen inappropriate means for achieving its ends. Nevertheless, a policy of economic sanctions against Libya, whether or not it is responsible for fostering terrorism, is not bad in itself. Libya has proven itself economically unreliable and politcally unstable. Very few benefits can be derived by the United States from transactions with Libya. 
The fear I have, however, is the United States will go beyond economic sanctions and react militarily, either by itself or via Israel. European allies are not even willing to impose sanctions; they would certainly scoff at any proposal which involves a military solution. Again, the United States would isolate itself and may even prompt a maniacal world leader to respond. And his response promises to be shattering, for his provocations already have been. 
You may say, even ifthe Libyans are not sup­porting these terrorists, someone is, and something must be done. I could not agree more. We must work together to stop these senseless and random slayings of apparently innocent men and women. Yes, we must work together; we must negotiate with them. Even if it means Reagan has to swallow his pride, the United States government and other govern­ments which have been the targets ofsuch at­tacks must sit down with terrorist leaders and negotiate reasonable settlements with them. 
For instance, I am convinced that this sum­mer's hijacking of the commercial flight from Athens to Rome, whose path wa..o; diverted to both Algiers and Beirut, could have been avoided had Israel and the terrorists tried to reach a settlement. Their demands were reasonable; they wanted 700 prisoners who were being detained by the Israelis for no ap­parent reason to be released. Israel balked and the terrorists reacted. And they reacted violently, allegedly killing one man. But that murder was a message to world leaders. With that murder, the terrorists said, "Look, we have demands too, and we want them met, just like you guys; but you refuse to listen to us. Okay, so now you will listen, especially if it is one of your own whose life is on the line." And with a sneer and a pull of the trigger, a man fell dead to the ground, all because world governments, particularly those of Israel and the United States, would not listen. 
Economic sanctions, military maneuvers; these are not the answers. The United States and other countries must bring themselves to negotiate with these people and hope that peaceful settlements will result. Isn't swallow­ing a little pride and granting several conces­sions -like the release of700 prisoners held by Israel for no reason -a small price to pay when 
the  lives  of  innocent  people  arc  at  risk  
worldwide?  
Bill Krais  ts  a  junior enrolled  in  the  
Program ofUberal Studies.  


P.O.BoxQ 
Democracy will put halt to apartheid dissenters 
Dear Editor: 
"Nonetheless, everyone rejects this posi­tion and St. Thomas justifiably calls it stupid." 
Luis de Molina; Concordia 
Chris Edwards' recent column reminded me of my all-time favorite response to a philosophical argument, that given by Luis de Molina above. I believe that there are many rea..<;t>ns why Edwards' arguments may jus­tltlably be called stupid, but I also believe his remarks may justifiably be called irrespon­sible, callous and just plain illogical. 
To begin with, Edwards proclaims that it is clear to everyone that the blacks in South Africa do not deserve freedom from the in­stitutional injustice ofapartheid because they arc such miserable failures in so many ways. 
He points to their inability to make their 
"homelands" pay economically, to their in­
abilities to maintain their own health and to 
their inept management of their own educa­
tion. The implication ofthis argument is, quite 
plainly, that freedom should not be granted to 
blacks until they meet the conditions he stip­
ulates. This position seems to me to be par­ticularly vile. The basic human rights to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness do not belong only to humans that are economically efficient. Rather, these rights belong to all humans because they are human. When one makes such basic rights conditional, one im­mediately excludes some people. This exclu­sion of a group of people from rights due to them by their very nature is a serious in­justice. Edwards argues for the continuation of this injustice of exclusion which lies at the heart of apartheid by arguing for conditional freedom. 
Later in his column, Edwards condemns the "black side" for the supposed widespread cus­tom of"neckery." Only two paragraphs later, he speaks highly ofthe South African army as a great army fighting for a righteous cause. He does not mention that through all of its righteous support of the South African government, the army has ldlled thousands of people. His statement that this army's actions are righteous and further incredible state­ments that the South African government is a democracy and that the law forcing black South Africans to carry identification cards is 
really an effort to. protect the jobs of these blacks show Edwards to be irresponsibly one­sided on the issue ofapartheid. One wonders where he gets his information; one wonders if he is actually serious in what he writes; one wonders how a Notre Dame student could hold such an irresponsible and if I may state my personal opinion, stupid position. 
South Africa a democracy, indeed. 
joe Merchant Grace Hall 

Argument on apartheid showed author's bias 
Dear Editor: 
Chris Edwards' recent guest column was so full of misinformation about South Africa that even an apologist for that nation's history and system of apartheid would probably not care to use Edwards' views in a debate among literate persons. 
Webster defines democracy as a "government by the people; rule of the majority; a government h• which the supreme power is vested in the people and exercised by them directly or indirectly through a sys­tem of representation usually Involving periodically held free elections." When Ed­wards is able to demonstrate that South Africa operates by these standards, then there will no longer be a need for "people who support the blacks in their drive to end apartheid." 
Frederick D. Wright Government dept. 

Quote of the day 
"True happiness comesfrom self-respect and high prin­ciples. Give serious thought to words like duty, honor, God and country before it is too late." 


Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton BusineS& Manager...................... David Stephenitch 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan Controller ............................. WiHiam J. Highducheck News Editor ............................................. Frank Upo Advertising Manager ..............................Jim Hagan
The Observer IS the mdependent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Advertising Manager .................... Anne M. CuUigan
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Systems Manager ......................... Mark B. Johnson 
adm1n1strat1on of e~ther mshtution. The news IS reponed as accurately and objectively as pos­
Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb Production Manager ....................... John A. Mennell
Sible Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opinion ol a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy 
tanes. leners and the Inside Column present the v1ews of the~r authors. Column space is 
Viewpoint Editor .................................... Joe Murphy ava1lable to all members ol the community and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Photography Editor ......................... Peter C.lachee campus. through leners. IS encouraged. 
Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Wolf Founded November 3, 1966 
--------~--~------~~--­



Accent 
From R.E.M. to the Hoodoo Gurus: 
bottom and Camilo Gonzalez's bass about the foreclosure ofAmerican TIM ADAMS playing adds a low growl to the farms, and on "Small Town," a features copy edt.tor whole thing. Ifyou think I'm resonant song in which Mellen­making these guys out to be a camp sings the praises ofsmall
Top Ten 
A 
bunch ofnoise-mongers, I'm not. towns without resorting to cliches. Throb Throb is funny, especially on A very fine effort from an artist whoAlbums "Surf Combat," where a friendly lately has been earning respect. 1.Tim neighborhood beach suddenly The Replacements turns into a nightmare ofnapalm 7. Mars Needs Guitars! t this point in my life, the and flying body parts. The highlight The Hoodoo Gurus Replacements seem like such a ofthis album is "I Don't Know," a "right" band. On the surface, their hard-hitting anthem detailing how These four nuts from Down Un­music appeals to me because ofits the counterculture replaces the der once again have come up with power, subtlety, tunefulness and establishment and then becomes an LP's worth oftunes ready and honesty. On a more serious level, the establishment. Ifyou're at all a willing to conquer America's col­the music surrounds and em­fan ofpunk or music with a hard lege campuses. This is a neat band. phasizes the Replacements' lyrics, edge, this album is for you. This is a neat album. You got your which recently have been becom­love songs ("Bittersweet"), you got ing more introspective. Tim is great your fun songs ("Uke Wow­because it showcases a very well 4. Flip Your Wig Wipeout") and you got your weird rounded young band. From the HuskerDu songs ("Mars Needs Guitars"). It's simple pop of"Kiss Me on the Bus" hard not to like the Hoodoo Gurus. to the sheer adrenalin rush of"Dose This follow-up to New Day Rising Ifthey keep making albums like ofThunder" to the vulnerable, is much more accessible, not only this, their future as college gods is tender croonings ofPaul Wester­because of the clean production but assured, and I see no reason why berg on "Here Comes a Regular," also because ofthe material, which they can't parlay that into world this album displays a mature and strays out ofthe pop category only domination by 1988. were about to explode. Ripping '~.11. f.;.. .... .~~ ...u~l•:..b .\.h":iuSf an empthatic group capable ofwriting occasionally. These are more ac­apart President Reagan for his 1985 anthem in its own right. songs which cut to the heart ofthe curate tunes about relationships 8. Headache Machine visit to a cemetery in which Nazi SS human psyche. The Replacements and society, played in a very catchy Doctor'sMob soldiers were buried, the Ramones 6. "EverybodyWants to Rule are not roots rock revivalists nor style. They've since signed to prove once again that, even after a the World" trendy sloganists; they're simply a Warner Brothers Records, so ex­OK, I know you've never heard of decade of making music, they Tears For Fears great rock band that writes and pect more from these guys in this this group. In fact, I was lucky remain quite vital. Drummer Richie 
plays songs which always ring true. vein. enough just to read about them Ramone refuses to back down on Tears For Fears were this year's once. Well, here's the lowdown on this song, and guitarist Johnny big splash, maybe because they're Doctor's Mob: they're a quartet Ramone lays down a power chord from Britain and maybe because from Austin, Texas, that happening track as tuneful and hummable as it they write good songs like this one. place; they play straightforward (i.e. is trenchant. And whenJoey Yet another great summer single, non-art) rock 'n' roll injected with a Ramone sings about Reagan, "You this airy tune is like a drive in the healthy dose ofenergy; their sound watch the world complain, but you sun with the top down. Though I'm is hard to describe because it is so do it anyway," you've got to believe not sure if the lyrics mean much, I normal, but it is slightly reminiscent these guys. do know that the music is pleasant. of(but not limited to) the Replace­
7. "Bittersweet"
ments and R.E.M.; the band plays 
2. "Sun City" The Hoodoo ~rus
quite tightly, and lead singer Steve 
Artists United AgainstApartheid
Collier has a good, clear voice. Let's 
One test ofa band is to see if its 
hear it for the American under­
Though I'm still miffed that most members can write a legitimate ground! 
radio programmers ignored this love song. Well, the H~oo Gurus 
9. Fegmanial song, it was really rewarding to see have passed with flying colors on Robyn Hitchcock and the Egyptians the attention that it did receive. I'm this number. It's got a pulsing bass not saying this record is any more beat and a delicate lead guitar part, 
Robyn Hitchcock is a casualty of important than "Tears Are Not and lead singer David Faulkner has a the Soft Boys, a cult band which Enough" or even "We Are the nice touch. All you have to hear is also spawned Kimberley Rew, the World"; what I am saying is that the band singing, "Don't cry," to lead guitarist ofKatrina and the human freedom is worth just as know that this song is for real. 
2. New Day Rising 5.SunCity Waves. Hitchcock is a pretty un­much as human life, and if a group Artists United AgainstApartheid usual guy, as is obvious by some:: of ofartists can get together and 8. "Nightshift"
HuskerDu his song titles ("My Wife and My create something as vital musically The Commodores 
This is a sonic wallop ofanal­Out ofall the benefit records and Dead Wife," "The Man with the as it is lyrically, then more power to bum. The three members ofHusker concerts during 1985, Sun City is Ughtbulb Head") and his lyrics them. Marvin Gaye is without a doubt Du play impassioned, energetic really the only one (with the pos­("You've got arms/ You've got legs/ my favorite soul singer; no one has 
tunes which combine the fury of sible exception ofFarmAid) that And you've got heaven"). This 3. "Walking on Sunshine" ever approached him in terms of hardcore punk with a decidedly stuck out its neck in terms of doesn't keep his songs from being KQtrlna and the Waves emotional expression. This Com­well-crafted though. "Strawberry modores tribute to Marvin (and to
poppish approach. listen to Grant making a controversial political Hart's drumming, with his arms statement. This record thoroughly :\'lind" is a good place to start sam­Tell me you didn't crank your car Jackie Wilson) is as eloquent as he flailing, pounding away at each and and convincingly skewers apartheid pling this English eccentric's tasty radio all the way up when you was sometimes was during his life. every moment and creating a won­and its ugly manisfestation, the Sun pop confection. heard this song this past summer; I The atmospheric, moody keyboards derful din; listen to Bob Mould's City entertainment complex in 
know I did. It's got that irresistable and sparse guitar picking really give guitar bursts, which range from the Bophuthatswana. The title track is a 
10. Wildest Dreams Motown-influenced chord progres­this song a true, honest feeling. tour-de-force, featuring an Spooner sion, and Katrina Leskanich's Yeah, and I even cried to it once. 
pretty ("Celebrated Summer") to the demonically wild ("Plans I amazingly diverse group ofartists buoyancy matches the song's Make"); listen to the Hart and covering many continents and even This album is as good a bounciness note for note. 9. "Glory Days" 
Mould vocal work, spewing out more musical styles. There should representation of the Midwest as Bruce Springsteen I've seen. Hailing from Madison, 4. "Don'tYou~
lyrics about subjects like the pos­not be a division between "black" sessive powers ofa woman ("The and "white" music, and this record Wisconsin, Spooner is a five-piece (Forget About Me)" The Bruce machine rolled on like Girl Who lives on Heaven Hill") does its best to illustrate that fact, as band that plays well-crafted, ultra­Simple Minds thunder during 1985, garnering 
pop tunes. Its sound, like lead him three more Top 10 hits, one of
and the breakdown ofa relationship well as point out racism in our own ("Terms of Psychic Warfare"). country. And you can dance to it. singer Doug Erikson's voice, bristles Who cares ifSimple Minds didn't them being this. I picked this one with crispness. You can't really pin write this song? Accessibility because it shows that Bruce has 
Throughout this album, and as down Spooner's music and say, definitely got a sense ofhumor, and 
implied by the album's title, there is 6. Scarecrow doesn't necessarily mean "sellout," "That's 1983 pop," or whatever. especially when it sounds this good. because they just don't make beer­
a pronounced sense ofoptimism john Cougar Mellencamp here. Even though life is full ofpain 
This album follows no trends and as This is a fun tune to sing along with, drinking songs like this anymore. By 
and misery, the members ofHusker Who would have thought that a result will remain vital for years to and Jim Kerr does not sound like the way, Bruce, it's "fastball," not Du believe it's still worth living, and John Cougar, the author ofsuch come. Billy Idol! "speedball." I think it shows through in their forgettables as "Hurts So Good" and 

Top Ten 
music. "Ain't Even Done with the Night," 5. "BiggerStones" 10. "Makes No Sense At All" would go on to write such biting The BeatFarmers HuskerDu

Singles
3. Throb Throb and insightful songs as "Rain on the 
Naked Raygun Scarecrow" and "Small Town"? 1. "Bonzo Goes to Bitburg" In 1985, the Beat Farmers Perhaps the most finely-honed Scarecrow seems like an album TheRamones released a good debut album called Husker Du song ofthem all? Per­


Naked Raygun is a Chicago quar­tet whose sound is not unlike that ofa rolling tank. John Haggerty's incredible buzzsaw guitar sound comes straight from the gutter and pounds the listener between his ears. In addition, Jim Colao's drum­ming slams the beat with a lot of made by someone who has been creating great music his whole life; it has a very natural and laid-back feeling to it. Mellencamp knows the value ofkeeping his songs simple, both musically and lyrically. He scores his most direct hits on "Rain on the Scarecrow," an ominous tale 
This song, to put it simply, is a monster. The Ramones have writ­ten a song so sound that it could stand on its own as an instrumental, and they have added lyrics so packed with anger that you might think that lead singer Joey Ramone 
Tales of the New West, and this is the best song from that album. It's a bittersweet retrospective on the glory ofyouth, not totally devoid of regret ("Seems like we rolled big­ger stones back then"). The high­light ofthis song is the guitar break, which reekb ofemotion and the haps. Nice vocal work on this tune, with the lyrics being very much against hypocrites ("Sell yourself short but you're walking so talV Makes no sense at all"). Check out the B-side for a pretty reverent rendition ofthe "Mary Tyler Moore Show" theme. 
paid advertisement-page 1 



Community Service Commissioners 
Alumni 
Badin 
Breen-Philllps 
Carroll 
Cavanaugh 
Dillon 
Farley 
Fisher 
Flanner 
Grace 
Howard 
HolyCross 
Keenan 
Lewis Lyons 
Morrissey Pangborn Pasquerilla East 
Pasquerilla West St. Edward's Sorin Stanford 
Walsh 
Zahm 
Tom Hayman Cailin Stubbs Valerie Weis john Horan Luis Marglano Mike Crooks jennie Cantwell 
Cindy Rivera 
joe Sifer 
jerry Goldner 
Ed Borneman 
Charles Madden Paul Cimino Mark Greaney Chris Durbin Beth Swaykus Gretchen Pichler 
Zandra Mencer 
Harry Blanton 
John Carpenter 
Mary Sagripanti Susan Odland Lucy Ciletti Pat Hirl Dan Lennon Stephen Kramp 
joseph Acosta 
Debbie Darrow Tom Stewart 
415 415 437 412 217 304 218 
133 435 415 923 
306 123 123 236 343 403 
138 105 326 833 
643 423 324 328 437 
229 308 359 1217 2750 1363 2787 1421 1770 4054 
4088 3008 1050 4056 
1607 3606 2561 3280 3425 2819 
2888 3454 2326 1704 
4624 1302 1512 2208 1882 
1900 4526 1670 
esc programs offer a new view of world 
The future is of primary concern to people who live and work in the academic world, The goal of stu­dents is to prepare for "life". As stu­dents move through the tangle of intellectual pursuits they sometimes forget that while they are "preparing" they are also living. They love and laugh. They are able to find time for parties and dates bet­ween the long nights with the books. They ponder the large questions of life while muddling through such details as laundry and roommate problems. It is clear that one cannot wait to live, and the best preparation for life is risking involvement. 
Fortunately, here in the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community we have an opportunity to integrate the preparation for life with involve­ment in the real nitty gritty issues that life presents. Through the Center for Social Concerns there are a variety ofservice/social action op­portunities available -over 24 or­ganizations both on and off campus have tailored programs to suit in­volvement by students. 
Some programs demand as little as one night a semester while offering students a new view of the world. Other opportunities are more demanding. They range from working with children to visiting older adults; from repairing the houses of the poor and elderly to of­fering CPR instruction and an oppor­tunity to donate blood. Some programs offer students an oppor­tunity to take stands and make state­ments about issues that are important. Some of the service/social action opportunities are organized and regular. Others are one time events that happen in response to an urgent need. Sometimes there is just the place for one student to work in one special area or with one special person. 
The exciting and invigorating ef. feet of these opportunities is that it enables members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community to break out of the protective bubble that surrounds those who are "preparing" for life and allows the wonderful,. frightening living world to invade and color that preparation. 

Helpline offers hope 
Through Notre Dame's Center for Social Concerns and the program HELPLINE, several engineering stu­dents from the University worked together to aid a paraplegic who needed an access ramp built in his home. In two days, the students built and painted the ramp, contributing halfof the cost of the materials. 
The connection for the aid was made through HELPLINE, a com­munity service established for the purpose of helping people find aid by assisting them in defining their problem and providing resources and options for clients as possible solutions. 
Concerned students, like these engineers, are volunteering their time and talents by applying them to this community. In doing so, they are becoming a valuable resource for HELPLINE's clients, providing the aid that they need and cannot get through any other agency or or­ganization. 
This is one example of how the Center's Service/Social Action Group Coordinator, Kathy Royer, through contact with a community agency, has been able to direct stu­dents into a satisfying productive service activity. 
Directory 
Arnold Air Society ....•....... 2 Big Brothers......................2 
CD.A ................................... 4 
Council for the Retarded .2 Dismas House ...................4 FLOC .................................. 4 Fun and Learn...................2 Head Start.......................... 3 Jusdce and Peace ............. .4 Legal Services....................2 Literacy Center ................. 2 Madison Center ................ 2 Misa en Espanol ................3 NISDC ................................2 NSHP .................................. 3 Pax Chrisd.........................4 Red Cross ..........................2 Reins ofLife ......................3 Right to Life ....................... 4 SAS .....................................2 SAVE................................... 2 STEP ................................... 3 Spring Film Series ............3 Summer Service................3 Thomas More Society ....... 2 
VORP .................................. 4 
Washington Seminar........ 4 World Hunger Coalldon .. 4 
This four-page special on the Center for Social Concerns is a paid advertisement, spon­sored by the esc and the Notre Dame Student Government. 

paid advertisement-page 2 

Local agencies, college groups rely .on student participants 
Big Brothers/ Big Sisters 
Big Brothers/Big Sisters of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is a non-profit social service organization primarily funded by the Notre Dame Student Activities Board, in conjunction with the United Way of St. Joseph County. 
Big Brothers/Big Sisters directly addresses the needs of a youngster in the South Bend community who is experiencing uncomfortable · "growing pains." These youngsters demonstrate a need for some kind of adult companionship, to supple­ment those within the home. It is here that Big Brothers/Big Sisters makes a match. The purpose is to es­tablish a one-to-one relationship to provide the child with the guidance and friendship needed. 
Big Brothers/Big Sisters of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's provides a setting in which the student and the child can meet and enjoy them­selves. Activities range from cookouts to rollerskating parties, and add some flavor to the personal meeting the student and child ex­perience on their own. 
The Big Brothers/Big Sisters Program represents all back­grounds. What all big brothers and sisters share is a · desire to help children through their loneliness, confusion and boredom of youth at adolescence. Each student and child duo is matched based on interests, backgrounds, personalities and general compatibility. Tilis es­tablishes the foundation for a growing friendship. 
The gift of shared time and friendship can last a lifetime, and the price is just a few hours a week. Please share the experience with us 

Fun and Learn 
The Fun and Learn Program is a recreation/socialization program for six to 16 year-old children who are experiencing difficulties in school. The children have learning disabilities in any or all ofthe follow­ing areas: reading. writing. math, memory, coordination, comprehen­sion, controlling behavior, organiz­ing. attention span, speech, team work, making friends and social skills. The program seeks to develop self-confidence and self-esteem; and to challenge children physically and mentally through recreational ac­tivities. It is not a tutorial program. 
Three program teachers plan ac­tivities which focus on the following concepts. RECREATION -team work and cooperation. SOCIAUZA­TION -appropriate behaviors, per­sonal interaction with volunteers. AFFECTIVE -communication, ac­ceptance oflimitations, coping. The children are divided into two groups, by age, to better meet their specific needs and interests. Volun­teers are needed every Saturday from 9 to 11:30 a.m. to support and work with the children as they at­tempt to develop these skills. (Located on Saint Mary's campus, transportation from Notre Dame is provided.) 

Red Cross 
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Branch of the American Red Cross became an official organization in 1981 and is under the jurisdiction of the St. joseph County Chapter ofthe American Red Cross. The branch currently has 45 members serving the ND/SMC community in a variety of ways. First, we provide first-aid stations for both varsity and non­varsity sports, and for certain other events such as An Tostal and the Domer Runs. At these events, first-aiders are present to handle injuries and assist people in any way pos· sible. In addition to providing first­aid stations, the branch operates its unique ·"Quick Response Squ:td." Using our blue van in conjunction with Notre Dame Security, we are able to respond to mt;dical emer­gencies on campus between the hours of 6 and 11 p.m. and to provide non-emergency transporta­tion to the hospital ifnecessary. 
The ND/SMC Branch also is available for any disaster relief services that may be needed in the St. joseph County area. 
Lastly, the ND/SMC Branch provides first-aid training in all areas of lifesaving, in~luding CPR, stan­dard and advanced' First Aid and Water Safety. 

literacy Center 
The Uteracy Center, located in St. Paul's Memorial United Methodist Church, 1001 West Colfax, began this September to provide illiterate adults with an opportunity to ac­quire basic learning skills -reading, writing, spelling and math. 
The assistance ofNotre Dame and Saint Mary's volunteers in this program has been invaluable. The patient, persevering work of these volunteers with individuals has been admirable and has contributed greatly to the forward thrust of the program. 
Because of schedule changes, some ofstudents will not find it pos­sible to volunteer second semester. No doubt, other generous social­minded students will replace them. 
Classes at the Center are held from 1-3 p.m. Monday through Thursday. Interested students may volunteer for one of these days. The van leaves from the Ubrary entrance at 1:15. If interested, call Sister Marita or Sister Evodine at 259-5427 beforr 9 p.m. 


SAVE 
Student Advocate Volunteers for the Elderly is a service organization that helps meet the needs of the el­derly in the South Bend area. The primary work ofSAVE for the last 1 0 years has been to visit the lonely el­derly, although in many cases SAVE volunteers have cleaned houses, shoveled snow and done yard work and other miscellaneous odd jobs. 
Because of the diverse needs of the elderly, SAVE offers a warm, rewarding experience to any person who has a desire to help others. 
Students benefit by working through an organization that is part of the Center for Gerontological Education, Research and Services. This offers the volunteers awealth of information, giving them insight into society as well as valuable train­ing to experience the elderly effi­ciently. 
Legal Services 

The Legal Services Program of Northern Indiana is a private non­profit corporation providing free legal representation to low income individuals in northern Indiana. Legal Services assists people who cannot afford a private attorney with legal problems in areas such as housing, public benefits, consumer, health and family law. Sever funding cutbacks forced Legal Service to restructure the client interview sys­tem as to provide maximum legal representation with minimum per­sonnel. Volunteer intake workers now conduct these client inter­views.· 
Volunteers are trained to record background information for statisti­cal purposes and financial informa­tion for eligibility purposes. The, and most importantly, the volunteer listens to the client's statements and capsulizes the legal problem into a narrative for a staff attorney to review. Nearly all of the interview­ing done by volunteers is over the telephone. 
Being a volunteer with Legal Services is interesting and challeng­ing work full of. learning oppor­tunities. 

Northern Indiana State Development Center 
restdents. Programs are developed
Northern Indiana State Develop­for heal! control, sitting, standing,
mental Center is a small residential facility for mentally retarded 
walking and proper use of a wheel­children and adolescents. The resi­
chair or walker. Occupational Therapy focuses on fine motor anddents of NISDC go to special educa­tion classes in schools throughout sensory integration activities. 
the south Bend Community. Their education does not stop in the schools, however, as the children also participate in a variety of train­ing. therapy and recreation at Nor­thern Indiana State Developmental 

Center. 
Located across from the Univer­Recreation comprises a major sity ofNotre Dame, NISDC offers an portion of volunteer opportunities. excellent opportunity for students Community outings, leisure skill to become involved in working with training and social events are offerd. the handicapped as volunteers. Stu­Activiites include ice skating. swim­dent volunteers can assist in ming. horseback riding. parties and programs such as speech therapy, special events. Specific training physical therapy, occupational programs for skill development such therapy, recration and training as feeding and self-help skills are also programs. The speech therapy opportunities for volunteer involve­program incorporates training In ment. various communication methods Please consider a volunteer ex­such as sign language, symbol perience at Northern Indiana State boards and simple conversation -Developmental Center. Our facility speech. Physical Therapy and Oc­is close and convenient for students cupational Therapy programs focus and our resident would really enjoy on the motore development of the having you come. 

Council for the Retarded 
The Notre Dame/Samt Mary·~ Council for the Retarded is one of the largest and best known volun­teer organizations on campus. The CFR, in conjunction with Logan Center and the Northern Indiana State Hospital participates in a wide variety ofactivity for clients at many different levels of ability. These in­clude regular programs such as Saturday morning recreation, weekly bowling and swimming, and monthly dances, as well as seasonal activities such as skiing, basketball, and Special Olympics. The most 
SAS 
Students Assisting Students is a volunteer organization wniLh, in cooperation with the South Bend Police Department, runs a shoplift­ing deterrent clinic for juvenile first offenders. Juveniles between the ages of 12 and 17 are required to at­tend this four week session in which they hear from respected com­munity leaders and converse in small discussion groups. This program is unique in that in most areas of the country, juveniles will merely receive a slap on the wrist for their offense. Through the clinic, they will hopefully become more aware of the harmful effects of shoplifting on both themselves and the community. 

Thomas More 
The Thomas Mon· Sr>ot·t~ of Notre Dame was founded to promote understanding of More's principles,ideals and standards in everyday life. The society serves as a forum for research, education, and discussion to foster an awareness and appreciation of More and of Christian humanism he advanced. Since Notre Dame shares in More's Catholic Heritage, The Thomas Mores Society studies the wisdom of Roman Catholicism, a wisdom More valued so highly that he upheld theses principles with his very life. 
The Society sponsors regular 
seminars on some contemporary 
issues studied inlight of Catholic 
principles and lectures on some 
aspect of More's life. Through active 
community services, members of 
the society also teach catechism in 
South Bend, help run a soup kitchen 
downtown, correspond to prison 
inmates and sponsor visits to local 
nursing homes. 

Arnold Air Society 
Arr.old Air Society is a community service organization within Air Force ROTC. It is a nationwide or­ganization with many AFROTC detachments across the country having AAS squadrons. Each year new projects are chosen. This year the Joint National Project-ONP) is POW /MIA Awareness, the National Project is working with the children at the Boys' Club ofSouth Bend. 
Each AAS squaddron plans their own activities in accordance with these projects. This year, the Ben­jamin D. Foulois Squadron, here at Notre Dame, is very active in all projects. The members have written letters to their congressmen (in ac­cordance with the JNP), have been attending Cardinal Nursing Home bi-weekly, helping run such ac­tivities as Oktoberfest and Bingo Nights and have been visiting the Boys' Club weekly, involving the kids in arts & crafts, sports and cheerleading. 
We also have numerous other short term projects and necessary fundraisers. 
AAS is a great opportunity for all AF cadets to get involved in com­munity service and to have a great time! 
pCttods, wt::ct t:tJ...e r'l:t<"t' ~· Logan every Saturday at 9 a.m. Often the most exhausting and rewarding 2 l/2 hours of the week, "recs" in­clude gym, music, and arts and crafts periods as well as special activities such as tubing, camping. a zoo trip, a farm trip, and a picnic. Monthly dances are also held at Logan, and are announced in the Observer. 
Bowling volunteers meet on Friday afternoon at 3:45 at PW. For more information on these or other Logan programs please call Joe Basque at 283-2261. 


Madison Center 
Madison Center. a comprenens•• ,. mental health t·ent.:. providing mental health and substance abuse services, utilizes volunteers from the community in a number of dif­ferent capacities. Volunteer posi­tions in the following programs are appropriate for students interested in the mental health field: 
Adult Day Treatment 
Sunrise Program 
Sex offense Services 
Project C.E.A.S.E. 
Children's Day Treatment 
Tratning is provided for each r•·>gram. Those interested in apply­ing or receiving further information may contact Laurel Eslinger, coor· dinator of Volunteer Services at Madison Center, 234-0061 during morning hours. 



Service/Social Act 
Peter Jarr~t 
Dan Knboch Ann Walton (SMC) And Aplrtbdd Networl< Arnold Air Society Bla Brocbeno Bla Sioten john EUJtcrmann John Husmann 

Dtedrc Drchmcl 
UJa Boykln Martin Rodgers 
CILA JertifCI' Naughton Mlkr Lochhead 
Tony Lee StaccySeim 
c..uocn for Fun a Leun K2thy Matthewti 
Frank lJmmcrman 
Joe Basque Maher Mouuhcr 

JolfCoyl 
Mary Jane Lorton Amelia Muf'loz 
Dan Cates Anne McNeill 

Jooc Vella 
carlton West 
O.Oborah Dohc:ny Connle Lee 
Toni Pigot Manha Massman 
NCAA-Volunteer~~ a Youth Tamtny Schmidt ND Law SchooiJIUik:e Porum Jerryfowers JellWoodward RASTA SOIA Alejandro Foxlcy Tracy Scbindde 
S.T.E.P. Kcrl Hal!ema SAVE ThpHogan 
Students AMiotlnJI Students Mike DIPaolo KJabttoUk Tercsa Donovan 
Cecilia Smith Saint Mary's Peacemaken UsaWibon Student !ioYerDment (ND) WUIIam Mapother StudentGovernment (SMC) Anne Marie 
Tboma More Society DanGroody 

Maher Mouasher 
Jim Jfha1an Tom !!ache: Marpret l'fdl 
World KevinMoeen 
(ND) John Patella 

paid advertisement-page 3 


ion to student life 

NCAA Volunteers for y uth 
For ~lllll' Notre DanK var~ity ath letes, the commitment to excel­lence reaches beyond academic and athletic competition. 
For many youn~t people, junior high school is a time ofchange, new responsibilities, loneliness or in­security. 
The Notre Dame/NCAA Volun­teers for Youth is a unique community program that brings together these student-athletes and junior high school·aged youths in special one· to-one friendships. 
Athletes and youths arc matched according to mutual interests. Each pair develops a frkndship through simple, everyday activities. 

tudent Leaders 
:\23 flanncr 283·10~1 
Moruu ~mlnuy 
239·7735 710 Rex s~. 41>1116 I~8 O'Uara (irac:t· 283·2898 .\29 Br..,n·PhliiiP" 283·132~ 22, AJumnl l83·10H8 ,160 Dillon 283· 1845 411 Lyoou 283·2782 234 Walsh 28H670 209 Plahrr 283·19~1 425 Lyon• 283·2759 439 Stanford 283·1838 16SI>IIIon 283·1639 30IIrwte 283·4118 .\&2 Augu•ta. Box l119 284·~320 tOll Grace 283·1 786 llHorln 283·2216 403 Stanford 283·2013 HOStanlord 283·2031 ~27 PuqutrUla Wnt 283·2989 I 338 KinK SC , SO 41>1128 288·1032 Moreau Seminary 239-7735 423 L<Mon.o, Box 0966 284·5210 283·3372
"'"' Kecn1n 
P.O. Box 2 I 9, ND 46~56 277·7149 3241..,..1• 283·4297 Hl McCandku, I727 284·~462 
•06<iracc 28~1656 420 Porky 283·3864 320 Porley 283-4001 l.owSchool 239·6627 
P.O. Box 841 232-2683 717 C.orby St., 46617 74 I N Culhtna. 41>1116 289·820) 3H Parley 
283-4241 204 Parley 283·4072 
714 w Anvl•. 41>1117 
287·1 239·5279 
2ZI SC. P.dwxrd't 283·1668 
1Sl Parley 28H298 
.HI Parley 211H272 
226 N. SC. Peter, 41>1117 l33·3669 
I04 Morrlll<y 283·3451 
210 L<Mana, Do& OS~H 284·5010 
2H Alumni 28~1109 
403 Stanford 283·2013 
More-au Seminary 239·7ns 
Af()l'('au ScmiiW'f 2l9·7735 l41 Brccn·Phllllpo 283·1293 334 Alumni 283·1196 
102HolyC,._ 283·3104 

NSHP 
The Neighborhood Study Help Program is the largest volunteer service organization on the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's campuses. We tutor South Bend area school children from kindergarden to the high school level. Each tutor is as­signed one child. The tutor visits the tutoring site twice each week for ap­proximately one hour. This program allows Notre Dame Saint Mary's stu­dents to help children academically as well as socially and emotionalyy. Ttors work at helping the children develop skills they may lack and showing them that learning can be enjoyed in a relaxed informal atmo­sphere. This program offers students a nice break from studying and campus life. 
Questions? Please call Tom Pigott ( 283-I656), Martha Massman ( 283­3864 ), Annie Shaughnessy ( 283­40 I 2) or Connie Lee ( 284-5 462) 
Head Start 
llead Start is a child development prograon to 1-\,,.e pre·~chool childrer 
from  an  economical  and/or  cul­ 
turally  disadvantaged  background  
an  educational  and  social  ex­ 

perience before entering schooL The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's student who take part in the program volunteer in a Head Start classroom one morning each week. They assist the teachers by playing with the children, organizing ac­tivities, reading stories, working one to one with a child in any other needed ways. The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students often serve as much needed role models for many ofthe children. Though it seems like the children are the only ones to reap the benefits ofthe program, our volunteers experience some of the most enjoyable and satisfying times in their college careers. 


Reins of Lite 
If you lick fresh air, outdoor ac· tivity, horses and/or kids, consider volunteering with Reins of Ufe. Reins teaches mentally and physi­cally handicapped children to ride horses as a means of physical therapy. Lessons are held on Mon­day, Tuesday and Wednesday, Spring, Summer and Fall, under the supervision of a certified therapeutic riding in!'tructor. Classes are held at a fa!'m in Granger just I:; to 20 minutes from Notre Dame 
Volunteers help groom horses, learro how to saddle and bridle, and act a!> sidewalkers during the riding lessons. Lessons are an hour in dura­tion, volunteers may spend from one to four hours per afternoon in this activity. Call Susan Mueller, 234­2263, for more information. 


STEP 
The Student Tutorial Education Program is dedicated to helping the residents of the South Bend Juvenile Facility to develop both socially and educationally. As tutors, our major goal is to motivate the residents to complete and Improve their school­work, and to teach them better study habits; however, the one-on­one structure of the program allows the tutors to develop a special relationship with their assigned resi­dent. The evenings we tutor are Monday and Thursday from 7 to 9. The participants in S.T.E.P. may tutor on either one of these nights ­whichever is more convenient. Transportation to and from the Juvenile Facility is provided for through the Center for Social Con­cerns. 
r-------~!W~IID~M iPJ ~@. 
% 
@ 
[MJ 



Plunge participants gain insight from experience 
The Urban Plunge program is a 
unique learning experience course 
at the University of Notre Dame 
which enables students to gain a 
glimpse of inner-city life -its 
problems, but also its possibilities. 
It is a 48-hour immersion into the 
kind of life that most Notre Dame 
and Saint Mary's students have never 
seen. For two days during the first 
week ofJanuary, students go to ur­
ban areas across the nation for brief 
encounters with persons and or­
ganizations working for social 
justice in the United States. Caring 
individuals, concerned com­
munities and willing agencies allow 
a new perspective on urban poverty 
to emerge for those who have harl 
little contact with the unemployed, 
the homeless, the hungry. 
The Plunge has three goals: 
I. To enable students to ex­perience and learn for themselves the problems of injustice, poverty and apathy in the urban areas of the United States. 
2. 
To increase awareness of and contact with persons who are working to improve situations, and to evaluate their strategies. 

3. 
To gain fresh insights into issues 


Misa en Espanol 
On the first Sund:~, of ev.ery month, while school -in session, the Center works with a group of hispanic students in presenting a Mass celebrated in Spanish. This is done in order to give the hispanic community a cance to worship in ac­cordance with their own cultural traditions as well as offer an .oppor­tunity to non-hispanics to learn and experience these traditions. Celebrants are Spanish speaking members of the Notre Dame com­munity or an occasional visitors from hispanic countries. A special feature of these masses is a choir with guitar accompament. The Mass is held at II:00 a.m. in Farley Hall Cl:>apel. We invite all Faculty, stalf and students to join us in these monthly celebrations. 

Summer Service 
Summer Serice Projects are available to Notre Dame students who will be returning to campus next fall. The projects are intended to provide Notre Dame students and alumni an opportunity to address the injustice ofpoverty. Project sites are cities where there is a Notre Dame alumni club; the 1985 SSP sites included Puerto Rico and Alaska. Usually, students are placed in or near their home towns. 
The Summeer Serive Projects are underwritten by Notre Dame Alumni Clubs and the James F. Andrews Scholarship fund. Social Concern Scholarships (tuition credit of up to n ,200) are awarded to eligible Notre Dame students who devote 8 weeks in the summer to a project that serves the poor. 
The Center for Social concerns has more information and applica­tions. Stop in -applications for 1986 Summer Service Projects will be ac­cepted untilJanuary 31. 
related to future work, study, major. etc. 
Students have both preparatiOI and follow-up activities regardin1 the Plunge. An orientatior workshop and directed readin~ give students background on poverty and inner-city life. Then stu­dents spend two days of their Christmas vacation at the Plunge site 

Peace Opportunity Contacts 
Alumni 
Badin 
Breen-Philllps 
Carroll 
Cavanaugh 
Farley 
Flanner 
Grace 
Howard 
HolyCross 
Keenan 
Lewis 
Lyons 
Morrissey Pangborn Pasquerllla East 
PasquerillaWest 
St. Edward's 
Stanford Walsh 
Zahm 

CSC Spring Film Series 
Center for Social Concerns an­nounces Spring Film Series sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns and Student Government. The Social Concerns Film Series brings issue of contemporary social concern to the attention ofstudents and faculty through film. 
This Spring we have scheduled two films. OnJanuary 21 and 22 at 7 and 9 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns we will be showing "King: 
Tom Hayman 353 
Callin Stubbs 
415 Margarita Villalon 412
John Horan Luis MangJano 
217 
Andrea Price 303 Catherine Lohmuller 237 Gerry Goldner 4I 5 
927
Bill Krais 
913
Jerry Pohlen 
Mark Greaney 123 
Pat Clark 408 
Jim Melluish 327 
Julie Oxler 403 
32c
Deanna Komayette 
30(
Felicia Leon 
Harry Blanton 10" 
Tim Shea 139 
Mary Sagripanti 833 
Peggy Woodward 415 
Pat Hirl 324 
433 Debbie Darrow 308 Tom Stewart 
James Crandall 
359 
and are responsible for their own ex­penses related to the program. Upon returning to campus, students write a reflection paper about their ex­perience, attend discussion sessions in the homes offaculty and resource persons, and choose one of several follow-up options during the spring semester. Students then receive one hour ofacademic credit. 
'lvlll~l)lliLI') to Memphis" (admission free). Following this, on February 3 ·and 4 we will present "The Killing Fields" at 7 and 9:30 
p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium (admission n.50). we also plan to bring a film which investigates roles and relationships of men and women in contemporary society and show this in the dorms along with discusSion sessions on these 
ISSUeS 
1217 2750 1337 27H7 1421 4011 
-+031 1050 40S2 
1772 618S 2493 3331 3196 191S 
2879 3454 2274 1704 45S8 1512 1888 4526 1670 
paid advertisement-page 4 


Students network for peace and justice 
Groups organize for campus-wide events 
The Network for Peace and justice is an organization which brings toget­her leaders from various campus and community groups concerned with issues of peace and justice. The Network serves as a clearinghouse for . coordinating campus events, alerting groups to opt>ortunities outside the University community, and co-sponsoring major events such as "A Call to Peacemaking Week" during fall semester and the "Peace With justice" em­phasis during spring. Membership is also open to individuals who are con­cerned with these issues and who want to work on the various activities. 
Pax Christi more information contact Maryjane Lorton, Amelia Nunoz or Miguel
According to Pax Christi Interna· Mendivil.
tional, "Pax Christi has as its primary 
objective 'to work with all people 
for peace for all humankind, always 
Dismas House 
witnessing to the peace of Christ.' 
Because Pax Christi springs from a 
Gospel vision of peace, it asks its The Dismas House student group 
members to ground their peacemak­is a relatively new project working 
ing in prayer and ongoing reflection in cooperation with the Dismas 
on the peace message ofjesus." Board of South Bend to establish a 
More specifically, we meet five community of former prisoners and 
times a month to pray for peace. We students. This community would 
presently are studying the life of promote bonds of trust and 
Thomas Merton, and plan to have friendship between students and 
Daniel Berrigan come to South Bend former prisoners and would serve as 
to speak and give a retreat on Chris­an unstructured rehabilitation 
tian non-violence. program for the former prisoners 
Please join us for prayer every who often need to be reconciled 
week upstairs at the Center for So­with society. Any student who is in­cial Concerns or at the Grotto, on terested In living at Dismas House ·the second Monday of every month next fall should see Kathy Royer at 
at 10 p.m. Our furum on non­the Center for Social Concerns. 
violence takes place every other Wednesday at 4 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. 
World Hunger 


Coalition 
The World Hunger Coalition works to Increase education and awareness of hunger issues on campus. Through speakers, films and participation in hunger aware­ness events, we hope to bring the Notre Dame community to a greater 
understanding ofworld hunger. The Wednesday Lunch Fast Program of­FLOC fers students the opportunity to give up one lunch a week, helping others In August of 1978, more than who are hungry throughout the 2,000 farm workers under the world by their weekly fast. The leadership of the Farm Labor Or­money raised by the fast goes ganizing Committee (FLOC) went directly to rural development on strike in the fields of northwest projects in diJferent parts of the 
Ohio. A boycott of Campbell world. WHC works with the St. products was initiated in 1979. Augustine Soup Kitchen in South Today FLOC's organizing efforts Bend, preparing meals fur local have spread into the Bay City and homeless and hungry. Thanksgiving Grand Rapids areas of Michigan. 
baskets are distributed to hungry 
Many of the farm workers pick in families in South Bend with money fields contracted to the Vlasic Pickle Cf'llected at hall Masses. The Hunger Company, a subsidiary of 
..:oalition attempts to look at dif­Campbell's. The boycott will con­
:ferent hunger problems through tinue until the Campbell Soup Com­speakers and question-and-answer pany sits down to negotiate with 
sessions. What can the individual do farm workers and growers about 
to help alleviate hunger? What is wages and living conditions. The goingon to help the hungry in Africa FLOC on campus was formed to ed­or Latin America? Please join us as ucate students about the farm we continue to search fur ways to 
workers' plight and to support the help our hungry sisters and brot­boycott of Campbell's products. For hers. 
Right to Life speaks for those who can't 
Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Right to National March for We in wru.­Ufe is a student organization ded­hington, D.C. Fund-raisers are im­icated to promoting greater respect portant for financing our education for human life at all stages ofits exis­activities and our continued assis­tence. It is our belief that human life tance to the Women's Care is a sacrd gift from Godwhich begins Center/Pregnancy Help Center. at conception and ends at natural Most importantly, through prayer death, and that no one has the right we are reminded that being "pro­to destroy that gift through abortion, life" is a participation in God's infanticide, euthanasia, or any other redemptive plan for humankind. means. Our campus activities focus For the community and the in­on education, legislation, fund­dividual person, we are a group that raising and prayer. We attempt to in­is concerned with social justice. We crease awareness of the erosion of earnestly desire to see society regain society's reverence for human life its respect for the sanctity ofhuman by and evtdent tn such wrongs as life. Through "sidewalk counseling" abortion on demand, etc. Our in front of the local abortion clinic educational efforts take the furm of and our support of the work of the films, seminars, speakers and the Women's Care Center, we .attempt maintenance of a life issues library. to respond to the many needs of We support pro-life legislation and pregnant women who are looking annually lobby for such during the for someone to care. 


VORP 
VORP is a United Religious Com­munity Program headquartered at DuComb Center, 1015 E. Madison St., South Bend. DuComb Center provides alternative sentencing programs and VORP fits into its program. 
VORP is an alternative process available to judges and probation of­ficers for dealing with criminal of­fenders, especially those involved in property offenses. VORP can offer a partial or a total substitute for incar­ceration. 
A trained community volunteer contacts the victim and the offender separately, explains the program, and solicits participation. The volun­teer sets and facilitates a face to face meeting in which facts are reviewed, feelings are aired, and a restitution contract is negotiated. 
For information on volunteering call Daniel Stoltzfus, coordinator, at 232-4817 or 288-8192. 

"There are many words wbicb came to mind when I try to ex­plain myself fully -incon­grutttes, contradictions, etc. Basically I enviston a giant puzzle where all the pteces never seem to ftt together at once. These tncongrutttes were en­countered at many levels, ran­ging fram the appearance of Washington itselfto the very dif­ficult moral and ethical ques­tions one must ponder ifone is to attempt to 'live as both an American and a Christian." 
Kerry Gill (Notre Dame '87) 
believe that Kerry speaks· for 
most of us in characterizing her 
recent experiences with the Social 
Concerns Seminar, now in its fifth 
year. This year 24 students traveled 
to Was.hington, D.C. over the fall 
break to explore the relationships 
between social concerns, public 
policy furmation and the Catholic 
traditions concerning peace and 
justice. 
This year the three issues around 
which the seminar was organized 
were South Africa, the nuclear 
dilemma and the environment and 
corporate resj,onsibility. 
Once again, Congressman 
Romano Mazzoli (Notre Dame '54) 
and his aid, jane Kirby (Notre Dame 
'80), provided invaluable assistance 
in helping to put together a program 
which exposed students to elected 
political officials (Rep. Henry Hyde 
and Sen. Lugar), government offi­
cials, private non-profit organiza­
tions (Center fur Defense 
Information, Environmental 
Defense Fund) and faith-based com­
munities (Center of Concern, 
Sojourners, Network). The local 
Notre Dame Club also extended its 
hospitality in the furm of a Sunday 
afternoon barbeque. 
In reflecting upon the week, the 
students have expressed both a 
sense offrustration: 
"To conclude, I bate to say that I was pretty much frustrated wttb the whole thing. It seems we're etther going to be polluted to 
Holy Cross Justice and Peace Center 
The Holy Cross justice and Peace Center is an agency which provides four basic things. The Center dis­tributes, with other private and public agencies, direct aid to the poor of South Bend. This is done primarily through rental and utility bill assistance. The Center coor­dinates a variety of activities to ed­ucate the people of the South Bend area to issues of social justice. The Bail Bond Project, directed by the Center, assists the Incarcerated who are without financial means to post bond. Fir. •: ,,,,1 most importantlv Lh\: Justtce and Peace Center provides for its volunteers from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's a com­munity in which social justice issues can be examined, explored, and acted upon. The justice and Peace Center is a community, primarily of volunteers, who seek to learn what it is to profess a faith that does justice. The Center is supported by the three local provinces of Holy Cross religious: the Sisters of the Holy Cross, the Midwest Province ofHoly Cross Brothers, and the Indiana Province of Holy Cross Priests. 

Community for the Lay Apostulate 
CILA, the Community for the In­ternational Lay Apostulate, was es­tablished in 1961 and is one ofNotre Dame's oldest and most prestigious service organizations. Originally formed as a support group for stu­dents doing service projects interna­tionally, CILA has evolved into a diverse organization, complete with three community service projects and an active Education Committee. And CILA still has students doing summer service projects. 
Locally, CILA students volunteer time at El Campito, a day care center fur children here in South Bend. Stu­dents also travel to Corvilla House, a home for the mentally handicapped. Each year CILA volunteers work at the justice and Peace Center. 
death or nuked, and that the blacks tn South Af.--tca are going to dte anyway." 
And also hope: 
"Enthusiasm might best express the personalities of both Peter Henrlot and Sister Pinkerton. They seemed to be livingfor their work and workingfor what they belteved in. It was very en­couraging to see what strides they bad made. They were ex­amples ofCbrlsttan teaching in actton, wbicb I feel is the most important aspect of Chris­tianity. They bad seen a need and attempted to satisfy it by immersing themselves in tssues and activities wbtcb showed Christian concern for the poor and needy." 
I think the root of this frustration came from a sense that man) <>f the men and women that we spoke to 
The Education Committee spon­M>rs lectures and discussion groups on such topics as economic justice and the troubles ofnorthern Ireland. Students currently are working on a project with Potawatomi Indians of 
the area, and are making plans for a winter workshop. 
Other CILA activities include Masses and a spring retreat. This past fall we travelled to Appalachia during Christmas break. Last sum­mer we sponsored students who did projects in Puerto Rico and Mexico. 
Thinking globally and acting lo­cally. This is a kind of theme that CILA uses. CILA holds general meetings approximately every six weeks, and all our a.ctivities are al­ways open to anyone interested. 
Exposure to governmentbrings valuat51e insights 
had lost touch with the human fac­tor within the reality they are facing. Speaking ofone such encounter, Sue Yadion comments: 
"He bad been gtven certain numbers and their interpreta­tions, took them as basic tenets of life, and trted to incorporate those tnto poltcy. Samewhere along tbe line, people became numbers, foretgn poltcy became a game, and world destruction became that much more discus-sable, therefore posstble." 
But as an Important corollary to this feeling was the sense that this human factor has not disappeared from the scene totally, and as a mat­ter of fact. rxio;ts very powertully in 
thetr own Lhristian tradition 
.mough the exl'u•cnce of this week I feel the studt.-ms were exposed in a unique and very real manner to some of the very difficult struggles faced by us as we live in this world. 
--------------~---------------------------------------------~-----~~---­
Tuesday, January 21, 1986-page 6-7 
The best of rock in 1985 

imagination to appreciate, New Day not, Flip Your Wig sounds even 
3. "Don'tYou (Forget About 
Rising hits the listener squarely more pop than their previous effort. 
Me)" 
over the head with its energy -not The single, "Makes No Sense At All," 
Wm(Jle Minds 
necessarily a less laudable trait but is actually almost smooth as Bob just a different approach. This al­Mould wonders how people can Although not an original Simple bum, however, just doesn't stop, take pride in being superficial. But Minds composition, jim Kerr's moving from the banging drums of the guitars still crunch enough to voice makes this song their own as "I Apologize" to the bouncing keep things lively. he twists and turns the words from mood of"Books About UFOs." The slow to passionate. And besides, frenetic pace and unintelligible 8. Walking inthe Shadow of "The Breakfast Club" was a great screams ofearly Husker Du the Big Man movie. so I'll throw this one in. hardcore albums is toned down in GuadalcanalDiary New Day Rising to a more acces­4. "Walking On Sunshine" sible sound. Although techinically an '84 Katrina and tbe Waves 
release, Guadaicanal Diary was 
3. Real Nighttime picked up from their independent Exuberant, bouncy -this song is a Game Theory label last year by Electra, and perfect single, maJdng the listener Walking in the Shadow ofthe Big feel good just like it promises Game Theory is the real sleeper Man was re-released in '85. From of 1985 -I can't believe more lis­the opener, "Trail ofTears," to the 5. "Can't Get There From teners and critics haven't picked up closing version of"Kumbaya," this Here" on this Davis, Calif. group. album has a big-band sound without R.E.M. Produced by Mitch Easter ( R.E.M., the big band. The guitars boom and A totally different song from Let's Active), Real Nighttime's reverberate throughout, and the "Driver 8," "Can't Get There From uncluttered guitar sound and music ranges from the lyrical Here" has a more jazzy sound, with deceptively simple melodies are "Sleepers Awake" to the light­horns actually washing through at reminiscent of '60s garage bands hearted "Pillow Talk." the end. Stipe sings "I can't get and groups like the Byrds. It's there from here" as bassist Mike definitely worth spending the eight 9. Little Creatures Mill's voice contradicts simul­bucks on this album if you can find Talking Heads taneously, "I've been there I know 
it. the way." As ususal, RE.M. makes The Talking Heads always things confusing, but this is a fun 
4. Meat is Murder produce such technically superior single. TbeSmllhs albums it's almost getting boring. Little Creatures is definitely a move 6. "Watusi Rodeo" This is an album about moments -away from the band's past extreme Guadalcanal Diary MARYJACOBY exposure to new music is closed to moments when lead singer Morris­avant-guardism, but David Byrne's assistantfeatures editor many of the students. However, the sey pleads "Please keep me in imagination will keep the band From Walkmg in the Shadow of 
A 
albums listed below do represent mind" from the song of the same away from the mundane as he sings the Big Man, "Watusi Rodeo" is a !though 198'i was not as good a some of the best music released in about being on a road to nowhere
title or when one ofhis depressed round-up version ofTexas cowboys 
year for music as 1984 was, 1985, and we hope that un­characters explains that "I smoke or the omniscient viewpoint ofa fighting in the Congo, battling the American groups still dominated familiarity won't discourage new because I'm hoping for an early woman floating in the air above her bewildered natives with he-man the scene as fresh independent listeners from discovering these death." Gloomy, full ofdespair, neighborhood in "And She Was." western techniques. 
cynicism and death fixation~>, Meat
labels offered local bands a chance treasures shunned by commercial for widespread audiences. An radio. is Murder has it all for the aspiring 10. Up On the Sun 7. "Road to Nowhere" a verge of half the bands on both neurotic. Unfortunatly, t'he verbal Meat Puppets Talking Heads
Top Ten 
year·end lists have been or are qualities of this album, relying currently signed with independent Albums heavily on Morrissey's vivid lyrics Never heard ofthis one, either, On the road to nowhere -what a labels. 1. Fables ofthe Reconstruc­and elastic voice, at times eclipse huh? The Meat Puppets are an concept. Leave it to the Talking The grass-roots revival of tion the music, although songs like Arizona band practicing the fine art Heads to invent something out-of· American music may account for R.E.M. "What She Said" still deliver surpris· of'80s psychedelia in an extremely the-ordainary. The video on MTV is the fact that some of these bands Some people may have been ing kicks ofenergy, countering laid-back manner. The vocals sound what won me over on this one. may be unfamiliar, although many disappointed with R.E.M.'s third Morrissey's obsession with the as if they are delivered by a ve.ry David Byrne dressed for the beach, morbid. tired person lying on his back standing on the side ofa long, des­
of the albums listed in these two album, but they probably haven't olate stretch ofdesert highway with
lists have appeared in in the top five listened to it enough to appreciate through his half-opened mouth, but an innertube around his waist, is on Rolling Stone's college charts at the subtlety ofthe images. Fables 5. Throb Throb the Spanish-sounding guitar trips 
one time or another. Independent leads the listener on a lyrical jour­Naked Raygun lightly through the songs like an just a hilarious image. labels and the many worthy groups ney through R.E.M.'s surreal South. elusive desert breeze, giving the struggling in local bar scenes do not Songs like "Can't Get There From Fast, loud, a crunching, crushing whole album the feeling ofbeing 8. "Burning House ofLove" 
have the same resources as the Here" and "Feeling Gravity's Pull" mass ofsound -and that just incapacitatinglyhot. X major record companies, thus mark a divergence in sound for the describes what it's like being'in the middle of the crowd at a Naked 
Ain't Love Grand, the Los Raygun concert. As to the music Angeles-based punk band's attempt itself, Naked Raygun skirts the bor­at wide-spread commercial accep­
Top Ten 
tance, was weak as an album, but giving new meaning to the cliche the single, "Burning House of der between rock and hardcore, 
Singles
"throbbing bass." Chicago's best Love," successfully reunited john 
local band was right on the mark in Doe and Excene Cervenka in their naming this album Throb Throb, I have to confess that I'm more an eternal love battle. because such songs as "I Don't album person, and I don't know 
Know" and "Only in America" do many singles, but here's an attempt 9. "Makes No Sense At All" just that -they throb -there's really at listing some ofthe best I heard in HuskerDu no other way to describe it. This is '85. Actually, 1like this single more
an album to release frustrations. 
1. "Driver 8" for the flip side-a version of"Love 
6. Fegmanial R.E.M. Is All Around" from the old "Mary Tyler Moore Show." Mould 
Robyn Httcbcock and tbe Egyptians 
This is one single I did hear. genuinely struggles to stay on tune 
"What an odd idea for a song," I "Driver 8" exemplifies what is both in an attempt to pay tribute to a heard someone say about this al­haunting and mysterious about former resident of Husker Du's bum. Fegmania is refreshing in its R.E.M. at its best. Lead guitarist hometown, Minneapolis. originality. Hitchcock sings about Peter Buck's simple melodies tug 
having a lightbulb for a head or Micheal Stipe's muted vocals from 10. "Bastards ofYoung" spending the day with two ofthe valley to crescendo as the song rolls Tbe Replacements same wives -the live one and the through a Southern landscape both dead one. Confused? Then just stagnant and fluid. Tim was released in '8';, and listen to Hitchcock's light pop 
since I'm short on singles for the arrangements and soft, inflective 2. "Shakespeare's Sister" year, I'm betting on "Bastards of voice, and don't worry too much 
TbeSmttbs Young," a powerful song about about understanding Hitchcock's alienation and insecurity, to be upside-down view ofthe world. Getting no commercial airplay, I released soon as a single, because it 
doubt anyone has heard this single deserves to be one. Although Tim is ifhe didn't buy the 12-inch. But The Replacements weakest, most
promotion and distribution suffers, band, while "Uriver H ., and 7. Flip Your Wig HuskerDu Smiths fans should find no surprises disappointing album to date, I still 
and commercial radio is always others continue R.E.M. s mystical or disappointments with can't help promoting the band,
wary of originality and new trends, guitar style. Yes, it's the Huskersagain. "Shakespeare's Sister." The song is because they are one of the best
because that might not pay. Unfortunately for Notre Dame 2. New Day Rising Known for their speed in writing along typical Smith lines ofdeath live acts around now. Also from 
eroticism, and when Morrissey Minneapolis, The Replacements arc
and Saint Mary's, the student-run HuskerDu and recording new songs, it was cries, "Oh, no no, let me go," you've moving into the big time, having 
radio station, WVFI, is not received hardly any surprise when Flip Your by many dorms and residences off While Fables requires a little Wig came o~1t later in the year after got to love it. He's such a tortured recently played "Bastards ofYoung" New soul. on "Saturday Night Live." 
'-"llllln"•"· so this traditional outlet for intellectual concentration and And believe it or 

r 
The Observer Tuesday, january 21, 1986-page 8 

Sports Briefs 
The ND wrestling team will play host to Miami 
(Ohio) tonight at 7 p.m. in the ACC Pit. -The Observer 
The ND Rowing Club will hold a mandatory meeting for all members tonight at 7 in Room 123 ofthe Nieuwland Science Building. For more information call Patricia Worth at 283­2759. -The Observer 
The ND Tae Kwon Do Club will hold its first 
practice of the semester today from 7-8:30 p.m. in the fencing gym ofthe ACC. Participants are reminded to dress for workouts. Anyone interested should attend. For more information call Kerry at 288­5440. -The Observer 
The ND Judo Club will hold a meeting Sunday at 2 
p.m. in Room 219 of the Rockne Memorial Building. Anyone in­terested is welcome to attend. No experience is necessary. For more information call Sara Harty at 283-3352.-The Observer 
Lynn Ebben.co-captain ofthe Notre Dame women's bas­ketball team will be the guest tonight on "Speaking ofSports" at 10 
p.m. on WVFI, AM-64.Join co-hosts Chuck Freeby and Frank Mastro with questions and comments at 239-6400. -The Observer 
The ND Women's Soccer Club will hold a 
meeting tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the basement of Breen-Phillips. Anyone interested in playing soccer this semester should attend. For more information call Karen Moritz at 283-1362. -The Observer 
Bookstore BasketballXV Commissioner applica­tions are now available at the main desk in the student government offices on the second floor of LaFortune. Any sophomore is eligible to be this year's commissioner. All applications must be returned by Friday at 5 p.m., and an interview time should be arranged at that time. -The Observer 
The ND Sailing Club will hold a meeting for all members tomorrow at 6:30 p.m. in Room 204 of O'Shaughnessy Hall. For more information call Dan Dressel at 288-841 0. -The Ob­
server 
.: -_,''' 
Fencing practice for all novice fencers will resume tomorrow from 6:30-7:30 p.m. at the fencing gym above Gate 4 of the ACC. Any new students interested in fencing are welcome to attend. All fencers are reminded to bringproper gym wear. For more information call Coach Mike DeCicco at 239-5585.-The Observer 
WVFI SpQrts, AM-64, will broadcast tomorrow's NO­American basketball game and Thursday's ND-Loyola women's bas­ketball game. Pete Pranica and Kevin Herbert will serve as commentators and broadcast time for both games is 7:20 p.m. -The Observer 
A scuba diving course consisting of 15 hours of instruction will be held by NVA. The course is open to students and staff. Anyone interested should attend a meeting tonight at 6 in Room 218 of the Rockne Memorial Building. For more information call the NVA office -The Observer 
Men's and women's volleyball tournaments are being organized by the NVA. Rosters must include at least seven players all of which must reside in the same hall. Rosters should be turned in by tomorrow to the NVA office in the ACC. For more in­formation call NVA. -The Observer 
Men's and women's racquetb~ tourna­ments are being organized by the NVA. The tourney will be a doubles competition, and both players on each team must reside in the same hall. Rosters should be turned in by tomorrow to the NVA office in the ACC. For more information call NVA. -The Observer 
A Grad-Faculty racquetball tournament is being organized by the NVA. Competition in the elimination tourna­ment will consist of doubles play only. Rosters should be turned in by tomorrow to the NVA office in the ACC. For more information call NV A. -The Observer 
A doubles handball tournament is being 
organized by the NVA. The elimination tournament is open to all students and staff, including grad students. Rosters should be turned in by tomorrow to the NVA office in the ACC. For more information call NVA. -The Observer 
Poll 
continuedfrom page 12 
13-2, had played only one road game this season before embarking on the treacherous road trip last week. 
Kentucky, 14-2, led the Second Ten as the Wildcats received just 10 points less than No. 10 Nevada-Las Vegas. 
Following Kentucky were Geor­getown, Louisville, Louisiana State, Purdue, Notre Dame, Bradley, Alabama-Birmingham, Texas-El Paso and Virginia Tech. 
Last week's Second Ten was Ken­tucky, Alabama-Birmingham, Notre Dame, Louisiana State, Georgetown, Virginia Tech, Texas-El Paso, Louis­ville, Purdue and Bradley. 
There were no new teams in the Top Twenty, although seven mem­bers of last week's poll suffered defeats last week. Michigan, Duke and Syracuse of the Top Ten each lost, while Alabama-Birmingham dropped two games-75-72 to Wes­tern Kentucky and 70-61 to DePual ­Notre Dame fell to Brigham Young 80-76 in overtime, Virginia Tech went two overtimes before falling to Cincinnati 107-104, and Texas-El Paso lost to San Diego State 67-66. 
AP Top Twenty 
The Top Twenty COllege bul<etball teams in The Aaocieted Preu poll, with first-place votes in paren­th-. thia aeuon'a recorda and total points. Points baaed on 20.19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents are ilelic/zed. 
1. North Carolina (62) 19-0 1240 2. Duke 16-1 1089 
3. Memphie State 17-Q 1069 4. GeorgiaTech 15-1 1058 5. Okfehoma 17-Q 997 6. Michigan 17-1 995 7. Kanau 15-2 889 8. St.John'e 17-2 754 9. Syracuse 13-2 674 10. Nev.-Lu Vegu 17-2 669 11. Kentucky 14-2 659 12. Georgetown 13-3 487 13. Louiaville 11-4 440 14. Louiliane State 15-2 432 15. Purdue 16-3 346 
16. NoiNDenw 11).2 m t7. Bradey 18-1 302 18. Ala.-Birmingham 16-4 144 19. Texu-EI Puc 15-3 111 20. Virginia Tech 14-3 105 
Help Prevent Birth Defects ""Support the ' 
~ ~!9DIC9.t~!!1.!§ 
Classifieds 
7ht• fJhst'rt'f:'r ,.otrt· I>JnH: otfit.e fol Jtt·J on tht' thrnJ floor ot LJf urrunc 
~tlllknt ( l'nll'r. ant·pt' tla--•lkd ad\ l'll"ln!o( ffllm <)am until I r m \lunda\ thfllu!o(h l·nda\ 1he Uhso•rTer ~.unt \IJn ·, offkt· lotatt·d on tht· th1rd floor,;, lla!o(!o(ar <.olkg<" < t·ntt·r. atTl'Pt' tla"ilit·d, from I 2 .~0 p m until ~ p m \Ion· da\ thou!o(h fnda\ lkadlmt' lor nt·xt·da\ tla,'llinh '' ~ p m .\II da,,lfil'd' mu't ht· prl'pa•d. t'lthn •n pn,on or h\ mall ( har!o(t: i' Ill n·nt' p.-r fi, t: t·harat·· 
tl'r' l'r dJ\ 
,NOTICES 
Typing Available 287-4082 
$10.$380 Weekly/Up Mal~ng Circulanl! 
Noquotul Sincerely interested ruah 1811-addreaaed envelope: Succeu, POBox 470CDO, Woodatock, IL 60098. 
................................................................ 
SUMMER & CAREER JOBS AVAILABlE! Reaort Hotela, Cruiae Unera & Amuse­ment Pllrf<a are now accepting appflca­tione for employ manti To receive an application and information, Write; Touriam Information Servicee 
P.0. Box 7411 Hilton Head llland. SC 29928. 
TYPING 
CALL CHillS 
................................................................ 
Abnllon: Studenla 
DalarWF..-ta 
Typlngllrviee 
haa apll-cllenge 
277..111 
LOST/FOUND I 
Loat: Kodak Oiec camera3100 !lithe LSU game either In the atadlum or on Gr11811­flefd. I can poaitively identify. Please return. Call Mary Carol at 284-5242 
................................................................ 
LOST Gold ring with initiall ML 8f98Ved on the face. It i1 of im-rable aen­timentalvalue, andageneroua-dwil be offered If found. If you have any in­formation regarding lhil ring, ~con­tact Maria at 215 Farley. 4053. 
LOST: ONE PAIR OF GRAY WOOl. GLOVES IN O'SHAG. PLEASE CALL 21111-4753. IT'S BEEN VERY COLO WIT­HOUTTHEM. 
FOUND: TURQUOISE RING IN COM­PUTING CENTER LAST FRIDAY. SEE BETTY IN ROOM 3 TO CLAIM. FOUND: GLASSES IN WASHINGTON HALL. IF YOUR OPTOMETRIST IS OR. UOVARI FROM PENNSYLVANIA PLEASE CLAIM AT LOST AND FOUND. 
,:c;s:r;·1·~~--~i·~·.-·;;;;;~:~·-~it,;·;;;.-i 
gloves at the Bookstore on Wednesday morning. PI-return to room 405 Keenan or call Rick (the Crui-) at 3363 
................................................................ 
LOST: One Gold Chain Bracelet! LOST: At Sr. Bar. parking lot In front. or 02. LOST: If found, ~ call 2710 LOST: Great Sentimental Value!! II 
Fou;;,·o:·&i·;;i·k~~·;:;;~;;;·;~·t:i~·;;y 
109. T'NO GM keya on ring. call Dave at 272-6693. 
,;;;;;;d:·;;i·;;i·;;;;;;·k~~~~·;;;;g;;-;;:u;~ 
day before break (five on a chain) call Ed 
4384. 
,:c;s:r·&;;;,··;;;;;;;·~--i~gg;,; ..;;;··u:.~ 
tilnry lui Monday night. Please calf Karen at 2128 
,:c;s:r;·A·ihi~k:.-;;i;;;i;;:D~k~·Qd;i~ 
with a large clap. It -loa! Friday, January 17th. It hu Ina-edible aentimen­181 value and cannot be replaced. If you have any Information, pfeaMcal ~en at 1884. Thank you. 
FouNo:Fiiio···Fi:oweR.iii:i....MN(ii:u;; 
BAG IN HAYE8-HEAI.Y RESTROOM. CALLX3865 
.................................................................., 
FOR RENT 6''iioiiM..iioME'.'·;;,·iiAFi'cAMP'us.'.272: 
8306 
s;;;;i~··s~;;;;:i~;~i·~~-..h;;;;;;·..;~--~ 
neighborhood 255-3684/2n-3604 
Need females to aubl-apt. January rent already paid. Call Shirley 234-664 7 or Maureen 283-2612. 
o~~ ·F~~~..Fi~;;;;;;;;i~ ..~..:..·No 
Apts. • cloae to campua and inexptlflllve. If intereated calf Sharon at 3484. 
N.D. Ave. Apt. for rent • If intereated calf Shirley at 234~7 
WANTED 
Wanted: Girl Friday. Part time legal ,..._ch aocretary Call233-3432 
PART TIME GRAPHIC ARTIST CALL259-3187 
.................................................................. It's not just ajob, it'aan adventure. Deliver the Obae<verl Spots now open for everyday of the week. Good pay. Corne up to the Obae<ver and Ill out an applica­tion, or calf Mark Potter at 283-2450. 
,;j~·;.·~·M;q~~it~-ii~:·;;;;;;·~;·o~~ 
23n 
................................................................ 
NEED THERMO BOOK BY PERKINS AND REYNOLDS. CALL BRIAN 1225 
HoT.MAMAFil:CiiT'6d·;:;;·41ii3......... 
3';i;;,;;;;;;ny··;,;;t;d·;;;~~-i~··;;~~··;;;:;d 
Volfybell. Calf SMC-4191 or4194 
..................................._............................. 
FOR SALE 
................................................................ 
Ia It True You Can Buy Jeep~ for $44 through the U.S. government? Get the facte today! Call 1-312-742·1142 Ext. 7316. 
................................................................ 
Need a GOOD USED ELECTRIC TYPEWRITER? Let'a make a deal-calf Sharon at 2762 for exciting details. 
................................................................ 
TICKETS 
wAN'riio···ii··aA:s·..;:c;···MAFiai.i'ETil; 
GAME CAI.L BILL X2161 I NEED 2 UTAH (YES UTAH!) TIX. PLEASE CALL LAURA AT 27061F YOU HAVE A PAIR FOR SALE. 
Need4 Tixfor NOva. DePaul. Mike3347 
PERSONALS 
IAMI YOUAREI AND LOVE: IS ALL: THAT MAT· TERSI 
-Richard Bach, Thallrtclgl ActOM F-• 
In nature there are neither rew.-da nor punlahmenta; there are conaequencea. · ours en pefuche 
PREGNANT? 
NEED HELP? Call 234-0383. 24-hr. hodine, couneefing & free pregnancy testa . 
WOllEN'S CARE CENTER 
FREE FACIALS AND MAKEOVERS Held in your own reaidence. Calf Julie at 234-7835 
Profeaaional Beauty Conaultant 
c)AR'ifoua!;·c:o&:D'.iit:!R·;;·-,:.,.auOii·. 
CARRY OUT TO I A.M. U.S. 31 N., 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
i-HA'Ni<.vou·s;::·:iuoii.FOFi·A;:.;o;:ii·iiR 
MIRACLE 
MC'S PREPARE YOURSELVE8-BCAF FASHION SHOW MC TRYOUTS WIU COMMENCE ON FRI.,JAN.24TH, AT 8:00PM IN THE BCAC OFFICE. AP· PLICATIONS CAN BE PICKED UP AT 227 LEWIS HALL (TONI'S), MONDAY. JAN.20TH 10PM-12AM AND RETURNED JAN.22TH, 7PM-12AM. AP­PUCATIONS CAN ALSO BE PICKED UP IN 117 BREEN PHIUIPS (LISA'S), MON JAN.20TH, 7-IIPM AND RETURNED TUES., JAN.21 2:45-4:45 PM. 
CPR CLASS FOR ALL SMC STUDENT&-SIGN UP IN THE DINNING HAU JAN 21 ,22,23 
HOOP HYSTERIA T-SHIRTS Support Logan Center and the buketbefl team! Long and short slaves Stop by Room 221 Stanford or calf 2089/2078 for delivery 
Take my hand You know I'll be there If you can I'll crou The aky for your love, For I have promised for To be with you tonight And for that time will come. U2 
Michelle & Jackie, Thanka for remember· ing our half birthdays. The jeflo wu great. Let'a do It every month! Love, Patty & Mary 
Thank You St. Jude. 
HEY SMC CHICKS! CALL YOUR FAVORITE DOMER AND WISH HER HAPPY 19th!! LOVE, HOUSTON & DC 
Hungry? Call Yellow Submarine at 272· HIKE. Delivery hours: 5pm-12am Mon­Thurs; 5pm-2am Friday, 3pm-1am Sat; 4pm-10pm Sun . 
W«e you In Windaor. Ontario over break dancing at the Canada? Did you meet my friend Jayne? If ao, call Rca at 1324. 
'
................................................................ 
CONGRATULATIONS 81LL & ANNA 
,..nnaGnlm­MERRY CHRISTMAS! 
Fr. Griffin Hope you're feeling better -a devoted reader 
THE CHICAGO BEARS WfU BE SHUF­FLING OFF TO BUFFALO AFTER SUN­OAYI"BERRY" THE BEARS! SIGNED, A REAL FAN, A PATRIOTS FANIII!!!I!!!! 
My prediction for the Beara?­HIBERNATION 
tiiiiEii'NA:Tii»i.....WiL:L:.....ii'EGiN·····CiN 
SUPER BEAR MONDAY. 
SUMMER SERVICE PROJii.<.;TS ap­plications deadline is February 3. More info at Center for Social Concerns. 
HEY VERN HAPPY BIRTHDAY BUCKWHEAT, THE CHICKEN, NEIL NORTON.-·:>R O.G 
................................................................ Only 18 days left for Mikey. Barb is al­ready getting ready to put you down. 
Maureen M.: I'm atillawalting your vilit. 
Ule is wonderful. 
-Kolaki 
------HAPPY 19th BIRTHDAY, JEAN ROZUM!! Hoping it wiM be the BEST birthday ever! And, of cou,.., an ln­aedibly inloxicated night /or 1111 of ua! Love you Ictal! Amy, Colleen, & Nicole 
AMNESTY 
INTERNATIONAL 
Organizational meeting TONIGHT 7:30 CSC 
................................................................ 
Do you Nke to take picturee? Do you want to put your finger on the pulle of the campu1? Do you have experience in Iliaci< and WhHe film procealng? Do you own a 35mm camera and need extra money? If you answered yea to any of these questions you really want to become a member of the elite OBSER­VER Photo Slllff. WE NEED PHOTOORAHERS In a realty bed way. There are acheduled and freelance poai· tiona available. Apply at the Obae<ver Office, third floor LaFortune. 
.......................... 
WANTED: person of good writing ability and excellent taste. The Ac· cent section of The Observer Ia lOOk· lng for someone to write biweekly ravlewa of South Band's flna eating eatabllahrnents. $$ will be provided. Contact Mary Healy at The Observer office, 239-5313 for Information. 
The Observer Tuesday,january 21, 1986-page 9 The Observer Tuesday, january 21, 1986-page 10 


Boxing Club begins preparations; Volleyball and Skiing also start up 
Welsh's squad pulled away in the mance, as evidenced by the next three swimming events to season-best times, that brought
Swimmers 
deflate the Mustang hopes for an up­grin to Welsh's face. 
continued from page 12 "Our attitude the entire year has 

._.•.•••·.·.-.v.-.-.·.·······".:Y'rl'ri'J'........_.•.,.w.·.·.vt~
set, Along with Bohdan, Dowd's 
0:49.33 victory in the 100-yard been wonderful, and now the guys and Dowd, who would later also win freestyle and strong finishes by Har­are faster, also. In the last two weeks, the 100-yard freestyle, was vic­ding and Schmitz gave the Irish a 57-we've spent more time practicing 
torious in the 50-yard freesyle with a 40 advantage, the necessary margin our specialty strokes, and it paid off 
Notre Dame 
swift 22:05. for a victory. Saturday." The Irish have no returning divers Dowd was a pleasant surprise in Irish Items: The Feb. 1 meet on the squad, but Todd Maus and his debut as a sprinter. against St. Bonaventure has been for­
vs 
Terry Dempsey took turns placing warded a day to Friday, Jan. 31. The second and third In each of the two "We had time trials last week in meet will be a three-team meet, as diving events. Welsh credited assis­practice, andJim, who is ordinarily a Oral Roberts will also compete. Last 
Miami of Ohio 
tant coach Steve Bullman with middle-distance man, had some year, St. Bonaventure slapped the keeping the divers competitive this great times," said Welsh. men with their worst defeat of the season. But it was the strong team perfor-year. 
Men's wrestling
The Observer Is always lqqklng fqr talent. If yqu have any, cqme tq qur qfflces and start wqrklng qn yqur newspaper. 
Tuesday, Jan 21, at 7:00pm in the ACC/Auxiliary GymAll you have to do is sign up... 
~ 
Come visit the pit as an
to get involved in the fast-paced excitement of newspaper 
production. Positions are available on any day of the week ­
~ outstanding Freshman class
If you have worked for The New York Times or have never even read a newspaper you are encouraged to 
pats the team on the move in 
apply at the Observer office on the 3rd floor of LaFortune Student Center. 
the national wrestlmg scene. 
'··
The .Observer 
!
~--------------------------------------------------------------J w-~.---.-...~................-...-.·~-·-·~-·-·J'•.•-.·~~---·~·-·.-.·.···-·~~ 
There is a certain room in the west end ofthe ACC in which an aura of tradition exists. On the walls of this room are 56 years ofmemories with names such as Dominic Napolitano, Roland Chamblee, and Many Roddy. 
It was in this room yesterday where a group of over 100 Notre Dame students met to begin the Boxing Club's season. For the next six weeks these students will train for one ofthe top amateur boxing tournaments In the nation · the Bengal Bouts. 
This is not just a boxing tournament. It was set up in 1930 by Dominic "Nappy" Napolitano as a fundraiser for the Holy Cross missions in Bangladesh. And to this day its purpose has remained the same. 
"Everyone recognizes the cause we are here for," noted Club President Ed Kelly. "We are trying to help feed people." 
To prepare for the tournament, the coaches and club officers first teach the fundamentals, then progress into sparring. And as with any sport, safety is an important part ofthis process. 
"All are required to wear headgear, 14-ounce gloves and mouthpieces," said Club Treasurer Kevin O'Shea. "And they are not allowed in the ring until they have demonstrated that they know the fun­damentals." 
The coaches for the club include Sean McCor­mick, faculty supervisor Professor Charles E. Rice, retired boxerJack Mooney, Andy Pernelli and Kelly, who won the 138-pound division National Col­legiate title last year. 
Several boxers to look out for this year are Tom Newell, Ed Garagan, Jeff Anhut, Edgar Riley, Pernell Taylor, Mike Mazza, and all the boxers who par· ticipated in the club's fall novice tournament. 
Club officials were very surprised and enthusias­tic about the turnout for the first meeting. But they stress that there is still room for any other interested students. The more who stay with the program, the better the Bengal Bouts will be. 
• 
What team is competing as a varsity sport, but really is not a varsity team? It is the men's Volleyball 
Irish 
continued/rom page 12 
game for good with four fuuls only minutes into the second half. 
This rest on the bench probably suited Rivers fine after having had to chase around Hofstra's Frank Walker for the entire game. The 5-1 0 fresh­man point guard for the Dutchmen turned in a stellar performance, con­trolling the tempo in the first half and trying desperately to keep his team in the game after Notre Dame began to execute in the second half. On the Hofstra end it was Walker darting inside, dartmj.! dutside, can­ning 15-footers one lime and off· balanced hook shots the next for a grand total of 19 points to lead his team in scoring. 
~'ul utgiluK~ll lUillg!H "as the play of Waiker," said Hofstra head coach Dick Berg. "Offensively he was very good and defensively he contained Rivers. We had no inside game tonight but (Walker) helped from the outside." 
But it was clear after the first few 


Pete Gegen 
Club Corner 
Club. The team is currently the only club in the na­tion competing as a varsity team. This catch does not affect the team unless they make it to the final four tournament at the end of the season. 
The Irish opened their season in the pit Thursday against ninth-ranked Ohio State. After dropping the first two sets by the identical score of 15-5, the Irish ran up a 7-1 lead in the third set, only to let it slide to a 15-13loss. 
Friday the team traveled to Ann Arbor to take on Michigan. A shaky fifth set almost cost Notre Dame the game, but the Irish battled back from 8-1 and 12-4 deficits to take the set, 1 5-13, and the match. 
"We have alot to improve on," said rookie Head 
Coach Bill Anderson. "Just returning from break and 
playing two games did not help us. But we'll im­
prove, and we should do very well." 
The team is off until the 29th, when they hit the 
road to play Western Michigan. 
• 
The ski club opened up its season in a 14-team meet at Caberfae Ski Area in Cadillac, Mich. over the weekend. Because of bad weather conditions the team had to leave early without the final results'. But according to men's captainJim Jordan, Notre Dame was battling with Michigan and Michigan State for the top three spots. 
"We did really well this meet," he said. "Our top five men are very strong, and Kathy Skendzal is the best skier we have." 
Skendzal won the women's giant slalom, and club president John O'Donovan placed fifth in the men's slalom. 
minutes of the second half, after 
Royal and company began to ham­mer away inside at the Dutchmen, that even Walker·~ play would not be enough to stop the Irish. And after Royal slammed home an your-face dunk off a feed from Hicks to make it 81-57 Irish, Phelps once again cleared his bench. "This was an educational game for us," said Berg. "Even at the half I figured it would be a 20-point win for them. They were just too big and too in­timidating underneath." 
And Donald Royal really wanted to do it. 


~c:»cJIC3l~----------------------------------~--~Tu~e~s~d~ay~,J~a~n~u~~~2~1~,1~9~8~6--~pa~g~e~l~l
Bloom County Berke Breathed 
Zeto Kevin Walsh 
CAN \-'TCU "f'PRB:.IATE n+e 
I MSlc.t oF IT!1-00 tfXJNS TO REITE1W'I! T~r. .. 
~CI.A9,; I WANT 
v~ EPuc.ATION 
f'EOFt.E Ta>.<\1" WILL ~eR
FALL ASLEEP 1~ 
~Re Ra:GtviNG-? ~~ 
A/'1(}UIIr TO ANY'iHIN~. 'rtXJt> 6ETT£R CALL 1-/CM£ 
WHAT nlfL•• ? 
M'fC(..ASS, E~?. 
.JVSTWJI!POI./OI.J /'NT) T!'I.L 'rtXJR ~'(THINK '(OUARE ?f 
\ttl CANT" FUNcrrtiNON THC ~e£-I.E\EL AND /IRE RDIW Tl) 9/0VEZ. FRENC/1 FRIES T1(t ~r OF~U~· 


The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 
Pet of Nick  
Charles  
5 Seasons  
10 Early Briton  
14 Farm building  
15 Open to view  
16 Ailey Oop's  
girl  
17 Sale words  
18 Craze  
19 On one's­ 
(alert)  
20 Missouri  
23 Cereal grain  
24 Mug handle  
25 Regret deeply  
27 Magnetic charm  
32 Yuletide  
33 Auto need  
34 Discover  
36 Slowpoke  
39 Declare  
frankly  
41  Tire feature  
43 Pod vegetable  
44 "Merry Widow"  
composer 46 Hindu dress  © 1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved  
48 Wearaway 49 Mine entrance  7 Fast period  Yesterday's Puzzle Solved:  
51  Stick game  8 Common chord  
53 Readied a bow  9  -Island, NY  
56 Museum display  10 Kettle's kin  
57 Table scrap  11  Part of a  
58 New Jersey  Minn. motto  
64 Chester­ 12 Evident  
Arthur  13 Sample  
66 Ascend  21  Post  
67 Nautical call  22 Grand poetry  
68 Marquand  26 Gauzy material  
detective  27 Fuel  
69 Maternally  28 Busy spot  
related  29 Hawaii  
70 Ridge  30 Wargod  
71  Went over 55  31 Of a surface  
72 Removed  35 Jap. city  
 
73 Sleeping  37 Cleopatra's  
 
maid  
DOWN  38 Not on time  
1 Arabian robes  40 Dry stream bed  
2 Window frame  42 Poured wine  52 Ontario city  61  Fictional  
3 Singing group  45 Place lor a  53 Wanders  whaler  
4 Response  hat  54 Shlpdeck  62 Enameled  
5 W. -Maugham  47 Slips up  55 Hum  ware  
6 A Gardner's  50 Joined  59 Double  63 Looked over  
namesakes  together  60 Heraldic term  65 Sign of assent  
7:00P.M. 16 M•A•s•H 


"Rusty! Two points!" 
Campus 
•11:15 
A.M. -1:30 P.M. -Special Event, •6:00 P.M. -Presencation%Reception, "Apres Ski Luncheon," North & South Dining Travelers Insurance Company, CAP, MIS, Halls, Oakroom Cafe, Sponsored by University Marketing, Finance, Math and Arts and Letters Food Services seniors are invited, Upper Lounge, University 

•12 
P.M. Brown Bag Seminar, Club, Sponsored by Career and Placement "Government Policies and the Persistence of Services Rural Poverty in Peru," Elena Alvarez, Kellogg •7:00 P.M.-Wrestling, Notre Dame vs. Miami Institute, Room 131 Declo, Sponsored by Kel­ofOhio, ACC 


logg Institute •7:00 P.M. -Presencation%Reception, 
•12 
P.M. -Thomas White Center on Law Mellon Bank, Business, Economics, ALPA and Government Lecture, "In Tribute to seniors and MBAs are Invited, Alumni Room, Dr. Leo Alexander: An Examination ofthe Ero­Morris Inn, Sponsored by Career & Placement sion in Legal Prohibition Against Euthanasia," Services Dr. C. Everett Koop, Surgeon General, U.S. •7:30 P.M.-Tuesday Night FUm Series, "Les Public Health Service, Law School Student Visiteurs du Sole," Annenberg Auditorium Lounge •7:30 P.M. -Friends ofthe Library Faculty 

•3:30 
P.M.-Graduate Seminar, "The Topog­Forum, Extra-terrestrial life, Dr. Michael raphy of Multiple Equilibria Behavior In Cer­Crowe, Notre Dame Rare Book Room, tain Carbon Dioxide and Hydrocarbon Memorial Ubrary Mixtures," Dr. Kraemer Luks, University of •7:30 P.M.-Meeting, Amnesty International, Tulsa, Room 356 Fitzpatrick Center for Social Concerns 

•4:00-5:30 
P.M. -People andJusdce Series •8:00 P.M. -Exxon Distinguished Visiting 


, FUm, "El Notte," Haggar College Center Par­Scholar Series, "War and Women in 20th lor Century America," Dr. D'Ann Campbell, In­
•4:15 P.M. -Civil Engineering Seminar, diana University, Galvin Life Science Center 
"The Solution of Nonlinear Time Dependent Auditorium Problems Using Modal Coordinates," Kyran •8:00 P.M. -Lecture, "Academics and Ath­Mish, UniversitY of California, Davis, Room letics at Notre Dame," Father Edmund Joyce, 
303 Cushing Notre Dame, Knights ofColumbus Building 
•4:30 P.M.-Biological Sciences Seminar, •1 0 P.M.-CLOSE -Junior Night at Chi Chi's, "Stocking Piscivorous Fishes into Ohio Lakes: Sponsored by Class of'87 Applying Experimental Ecology to Fish 
Management," Prof. Roy Stein, Ohio State Uni­versity, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 
TV Tonight 
8:30P.M. 28 Growing Pains
46 Skyllte Cavalcade 22 Three's Company 9:00P.M. 16 Remington Steele 28 jeopardy 22 CBS Special: Miss Teen USA
7:30P.M. 16 Barney Miller 
28 Moonlighting22 WKRP inCincinnati 
34 Odyssey
28 Wbeel ofFortune 
46 Lesea Alive.
8:00P.M. 16 TheA-Team 10:00P.M. 16 NBC News Special: "Ufe, Death
22 CBS Special: "The Muppets 30th and AIDS"
Anniversary" 28 Spencer: For Hire 28 Wbo"s the Boss? 
46 Dwight 1bomp110n34 Halley's Comet: Once in a 10:3()P.M. 34 Campaigning on CueUfetlme 
~ANTI-VIOLENCE 1J 
'' VOLUNTEERS 
C...t•for ftoa-VIol•c• 
..ut.1 r..u-u....tarr. 
t' 
L.....lf....... AH•NfiOH, 
_.._
,.......,......,,.....c-,.1 
.........~......­
.................. 
,.,...,CMMI,.,. ... r.r. ,...,._ 
u..w•~··•••
...._ 
o..,.., ............... 
..•..,.,............ 
Clllb ~ J 7-J/U-lt:IO
.....,,._.,., .,
--·-llf,lf.D.
8N3J!J7,C............. JL
··­

Queen's Castle & The Knights $5 $8.50 complete student cut style 
MINUTES AWAY FROM CAMPUS 272-0312 277-1691 DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 
women Included now tool 
We also feature the Royal Bronze Suntanning Center See a tan in minute• ..• Not Hours Ironwood & St. Road 23 (Across From Martin's) 

S~orts 

The Notre Dame basketball team fell from 13th to 16th in this week's Associated Press college basketball poll, released yesterday. 
North Carolina, scheduled to face the Irish Sunday in Chapel Hill, N.C., opened its new arena with a three­point victory over Duke and followed that with a two-point road victory over Marquette last weekend, and was the unamimous choice as the No. 1 team in the poll. 
The Tar Heels, 19-0, have been on top ofthe poll in each ofthe regular­season polls but this was their first week as a unamimous choice. North Carolina received 1,240 points from the nationwide panel of sportswriters and broadcasters. Last season, Georgetown was a un­amimous No. 1 choice six times and St. John's was unopposed for one week. 
Duke, one ofthree teams to suffer its first loss of the season last week, was second in the voting with 1,089 points, 20 more than Memphis State, 17-0, ofthe Metro Conference. 
Georgia Tech, the third Atlantic Coast Conference team in the top four, was next with 1,058 points. Fifth-ranked Oklahoma, 17-0, had 997 points, just two more than Mic­higan, which suffered its first defeat of the season last week -73-63 to Minnesota -and fell from its No. 2 ranking last week. 
Rounding out the Top Ten were Kansas, 889 points, St. John's, 754, Syracuse, 674, and Nevada-Las Vegas, 669. 
North Carolina opened the 22,000-seat Dean Smith Student Ac­tivities Center Saturday with a 95-92 victory over Duke. The Tar Heels traveled to Milwaukee that night for their nationally televised game at Marquette and overcame a nine­point deficit with four minutes remaining to hold the No. 1 spot. 
Syracuse, fourth last week, dropped to ninth after losing a Big East Conference game to Geor­getown, 73-70, and a nationally televised game at Louisville on Saturday, 83-73. The Orangemen, 
see POLL, page 8 
Tuesday, January 21, 1986-page 12 
Notre Dame whips Hofstra, 91-67; Royal leads the way with 20 points 
By MARlY BURNS low and Rivers, the two most consis­weren't doing," said Phelps. "Our Asststont-SportsEdttor tent weapons in the Notre Dame main concern was that we were arsenal, were having sub-par nights. playing passively. I felt we needed to 
David Rivers didn't want to do it. Even the Notre Dame bench failed get aggressive and play our game. Ken Barlow didn't want to do it. The to respond effectively to the chal­"I wanted to give our bench some Notre Dame bench didn't want to do lenges being presented in the first experience and see what they could it. 20 minutes by the smaller perimeter do, but they just didn't do it for us 
But Irish forward Donald Royal shooters ofHofstra. Irish head coach tonight. Ifthere were any highlights didn't mind taking matters into his Digger Phelps cleared his bench it was the play of Royal. He played own hands last night at the AC~. The only eight minutes into the game but good offensively and worked well 6-7, 205-pound junior gave an over­was forced to return the starting on the inside getting the boards." matched Hofstra team the Royal lineup five minutes later after the Royal got help inside from center treatment, pounding in 20 points ( 7 Dutchmen cut the Notre Dame lead Tim Kempton, who continued his 
of 7 from the floor) and eight from 21-12 to 2 5-21. The. halfended fine play oflate by contributing nine 
rebounds to lead his 11-2 team to a with the Irish clinging to a 39-35 points and eight rebounds, and from 91-67victory. margin. the outside by guards Mark Steven­Royal's consistent play under­This inability to finish off their op­son and Scott Hicks. Stevenson's to­neath the boards helped keep Notre ponent from the East Coast Con­tal of 14 points on the night was Dame afloat in a close first half that ference left many of the 11,345 fans second only to Royal's, while Hicks 
saw a sluggish Irish team being in attendance worried. Phelps, added 12 points as a fill-in for Rivers hounded by the hot-shooting however, was not worried. after the star point guard left the Dutchmen. Aiding Hofstra in their "At halftime we just went in and 
upset attempt was the fact that Bar-talked about some of things we see IRISH, page 10 
Irish beat Mustangs for first win 
ByJOHN WALTERS times at the meet, with strong per­guided the swimmers at Johns Hop­Sports Writer formances all around, from ex­kins. "The meet was close up to that perienced seniors to a freshman point." 
The Notre Dame men's swim who is hardly wet behind the ears. Was it ever. After the first five team added another first to its 1985-Only a frosh, Eric Bohdan is no new­events, things were at a deadlock, 86 campaign. Add first win to the comer to the Irish swimming family. I 7-I7. In dove Blaise Harding, a 
list, as the Irish took off to the Great The latest model in the long line of veteran of strong performances. White North and came away with an Bohdans who have donned swim Harding swam a 2:02.53 in the 200­impressive 65-48 victory over the trunks for the Irish, Eric has the yard individual medley, shaving two Mustangs of Western Ontario last chance to be the third Bohdan brot­seconds off of his previous best of Saturday. her to set an Irish swim meet record. the season. That first-place finish 
In this, their first year swimming It was Bohdan's surprising effort enabled the Irish to take a 23-20 lead at Rolfs Aquatic Center and their that enabled the Irish to pull away. going into the first diving event. first season under the direction of With the men leading 43-27, Bohdan Freshman Tim Schmitz and sop­
Head Coach Tim Welsh, the Irish raced to a 2:0I.53 victory in the 200-homore Jim Dowd also recorded posted their first victory against two yard backstroke, a full seven seconds first places early on. Schmitz took 
losses. Not only did they win, but better than the Lake Charles, La. the 1000-yard freestyle in I0: I6.0 they created a splash with a wave of native's high school best. season-best performances. "It was the turning point of the 
see SWIMMERS, page 10 
The Irish recorded 18 season-best meet," said Welsh, who formerly 
Women swimmers improve record to 2-2, beat Western Ontario over the weekend 
By BOB KEMPER with the team's progress at this point freestyle, the Irish were not ex­Sports Writer in the season. pected to do too well in the inter­"The enire team is improving. mediate 500-yard event. 
The Notre Dame women's swim­There were 18 seasonal best times. Sophomores Amy Darlington and ming team upped its record to 2-2 in This was surely a team victory." Anne Costello did not follow this Saturday's victory over Western On­One area ofthe meet that the Irish logic and captured first and third tario. The 76-64 final score is some­did dominate, though, were the places, respectively. what misleading, though, because diving events. The women divers "Placing first and third in the 500­the meet was not decided until the outscored Western Ontario 16-2. yard freestyle provided not only final event. Sophomore Andrea Bonny took first critical points, but a real motiva­
With a slim 69-64 lead, the 400-place in both the one-meter and tional lift," said Welsh. "It's a 20-lap yard relay team consisting of junior three-meter events, while senior race and after I8 laps W.:-stern On­Suzanne DeVine, sophomores Bar­Colleen Ambrose finished a close tario possessed two ofthe first three bara Byrne and Amy Darlington, and second in the two events. Bonny set places. In a race that takes five and a freshman Tracy Johnson captured a a Notre Dame record by amassing half minutes to complete, both breathtaking victory with a time of 242.2 points in the three-meter teams can really get caught up in the 3:44.68, 0.1 seconds faster than the competition. excitement. Winning the 500-yard relay team of Western Ontario. While all of the events held an freestyle provided motivation for 
"The 400 meter free relay typified equal signifigance in the victory, the remaining events." 
the entire meet," said first-year Head Coach Welsh was especially ple~ed The team leaves Thursday for Coach Tim Welsh. "Western On­that the women fared so well in the New York City where they take on tario was extremely competitive 500-yard freestyle. After Western St. John's and Fordham in weekend and matched us evenly in almost Ontario captured the first three dual meets. The next home meet for every event." places in the 1 000-yard freestyle and the Irish is on Friday, Jan. 31 when 
Coach Welsh was very impressed first and third in the 200-yard they host Oral Roberts. 
Notre Dame wrestlers face Redbirds tonight 
The Notre Dame wrestling team will face Miami (Ohio) tonight in the ACC Pit at 7. The team is com­ing off a big win against Illinois State, and hopes to continue its winning ways. 
This is the last home meet until Feb. 8, when the Irish will play host to Purdue. The Irish will par­ticipate in the National Catholic 
Tournament this weekend.
appearat right. 








