
Happenings -Inside 

VOL. XX, NO. 102 FRIDAY, MARCH 7, 1986 an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Switek squeaks by Domagalski in election upset 
'~
" 
-
....

j 
Don Montanaro raises his arms in victory as he and ecstatic Switek!Montanaro supporters react to last night's presidential election upset over Jim Domagalski and Laurie Bink. The triumphant The Observer /Drew Sandler crowd chanted "We are ND" and "Cheese and macaroni" in the LaFortune offices ofcurrent Stu­dent Body President Bill Healy and Vice President Duane Lawrence. 

The big victory news is announced to a somewhat stunned vice presidential candidate Don Montanaro, right, by Ombudsman Personnel and Legal Affairs Officer Maher Mouasher late last night. Montanaro's running mate Mike Switek was not on hand to hear voting results. Stories below and at right. 
Cheering supporters celebrate Switek win 
By LYNNE R. STRAND 
Staff Reporter 
April Fool's Day will mark the 
inau~uration of Mike Switek and 
Don Montanaro. 
"Isn't that appropriate?" noted 
Montanaro, the student body vice 
president-elect. 
"There's going to be a take-over on April Fool's," he added. 
Chanting "We are the court, we are the court," approximately 30 Switek and Montanaro supporters wore royal purple Burger King crowns celebrating their "king's conquering" over Jim Domagalski and Laurie Bink last night. 
Supporters calling themselves ''the king's court" crammed into the Cavanaugh room of Switek and Montanaro, in what Montanaro called ''total and unrestricted euphorium." 
Because Switek left for his home in Houston earlier in the evening, his supporters phoned his home but were unable to reach him. 
Noting that Switek is a geology major, an enthusiastic supporter said, ''Switek will make this place rock." 
Montanaro, a government ma­jor, hails from Naperville, Ill., the same hometown of current Student Body President Bill Healy. "But I'm an Easterner at heart," said Montanaro, who was raised in Philadelphia and Connecticut. 
Shouting "Cheese and macaroni, cheese and macaroni" and ''We are ND, we are ND," the "king's court" created much commotion by later storming the LaFortune offices of Healy and Student Body Vice President Duane Lawrence. 
"We invited them into here," said 
Healy. "I think they're (Switek and 
Montanero) very creative. They'll 
be wonderful." 
Packed into Healy's presidential 
office, Montanaro and his sup­
porters brought their own six-packs 
of beer. 
Healy offered a toast, "Cheers to Switek and Montanaro, and all the fun next year." 
Said Montanaro, "Hey, everybody, this will be our new par­ty headquarters." 
Healy later said, "They've got the potential to do a good job." Noted Lawrence, "I think they're serious enough and yet funny enough to do a good job." 
The king's court then flocked to the vice presidential office for a party, when one supporter hollered, "Don, have you heard from Vice President Bush yet?" 
As the election results from in­dividual dorms were announced, supporters cheered jubilantly with eachSwitekdorm victory.' 
After learning yesterday's presidential election results, many students have compared the victory of Switek and Montanaro with a former presidential team. ''The King and the Cat" won the office in· 1972, according to Lawrence. Robert Kerston, the "king" ruled without the cat. 
Switek's sister, Beth was one of the students in the king's court last night. "I'm very proud of my brother," she said. "I know they can do a good job." 
She said she will not be able to see her brother in office because she will be in Angers, France next year. 
By LYNNE R. STRAND 
Staff Reporter 
The ticket of Mike Switek and Don Montanaro foiled the chances of Jim Domagalski and Laurie Bink for Notre Dame student body president and vice president last night, outdistancing the Domagalski-Bink ticket by 142 votes. 
"It's a shocker," said narrowly­elected Student Body Vice Presi­dent Don Montanaro. 
Switek and Montanaro received 2,112 votes, or 51.7 percent of the votes cast, while Domagalski and Bink tallied 1,970 votes, or 48.3 percent. There were 66 write-ins and abstentions. 
Yesterday's voter turnout of 
55.92 percent was lower than Tues­day's 60.5 percent. 
Tom Brennan, Ombudsman elec­tion officer, said, "I was very pleas­ed that the election was as clean as it was." 
Switek and Domagalski each won 12 dorms, with Switek also winning offcampus (44-12). 
No women's dorms supported Switek and Montanaro, but they took decisive wins in their home dorm, Cavanaugh (161-34), and in Dillon (192-29), Keenan (157-66) and Morrissey (156-89). 
Domagalski and Bink won big in Bink's dorm, Breen-Phillips (132­37), Pasquerilla West (127-27), Farley (97-25) and Lewis (120-53). 
Flanner, Domagalski's dorm, voted for him 196-129. 
"Oh my God," Montanaro said after learning he and Switek won the presidency. "I have to go now, we're going to miss Cheers." 



ND Hall Presidents' Council rejects new£~p.stituti011J?~~e~~~! ,, 
By ALEX PELTZER and 
ANDI SCHNUCK 
StaffReporters 
The Hall Presidents' Council voted last night not to accept the newest proposed student govern­ment constitution. 
The constitution, which was pro­posed Monday night to the Student Senate and would dispose of the Student Senate as a separate body, was put before the council last night. 
The HPC vote was 14 to 7 against adopting the proposed con­stitution. In order for the con­stitution to be brought into effect, it would now have to be voted on and approved by two-thirds of the student body. 
Kevin Howard, chairman of the HPC, said last night he was not concerned about the legality of the 

"Our duty is to vote on the mat-legal. ter, yes or no," said Howard. ''The "It is up to the Judicial Council legality is for the Judicial Council to-decide whether or not the HPC to decide." vote means anything," said 
The HPC discussed the matter Howard. ''The HPC did provide a for ·almost an hour before they lot of leadership and gave the dif­voted on it. Discussion was divided fering sides a chance to voice their among the members. opinions." 
Most members said the newest The HPC did not voice an of-constitution proposal was a ficial opinion, but they did speak modern version of the HPC's con-against all of the proposed con­stitution proposal last fall. Despite stitutions so far. the popularity of the newest pro-The decision may be decided by posal, it failed to pass by one vote. the students in a referendum. If the Two HPC members representing new constitution comes before the Keenan and Lewis decided to student body, it would require two-abstain from the vote. thirds of the undergraduate vote. 
If one of the hall presidents who "It (the new constitution) will go abstained had voted for the pro-before the student body unless it is posal, the constitution would have withdrawn by the proposers," ac­been adopted. cording to Duane Lawrence, stu-
Had the HPC adopted the new dent body vice president and constitution, it would still be up to member of the group authoring the the Judicial Council to decide newest proposed constitution. 
Switek was flying to Texas when Ombudsman announced the elec­tion results, according to Mon­tanaro. "I'm really upset Switek can't be here. He got called away on family business. He left 6 o'clock tonight," he said, adding, "Switek will feel the jubilation." 
"Start smiling," Montanaro said to his new constituents. "The fun's going to start. We want to thank everybody. 
"For those who don't think we'll take this seriously," he continued, ''we're gonna make a difference. We're gonna make everybody smile on their way to cla.ss instead of star­ing at the sidewalks. 
"We're serious about the cheese and macaroni thing," added Mon­tanaro. "We got this far having 
see RUNOFF, page 6 

,1 
1 
l 
u • PUC 
r 
, 
r 
r 
r 
~ 
r 
r 
~ 
I f 
, 
r 
, 
! ~ ~ 
r 
~ 
r 
r 
r 
f 'r 
r 
r 
i 
t 
r 
I 
The Observer 



In Brief 
An escaped inmate from the Indiana State Reformatory has been captured at a suburban Dayton motel. William Lee Hut­chinson, whose escape route was a barrel of kitchen grease, could face federal charges of kidnapping, interstate transportation of a motor vehich;, use of a firearm in commission of a felony and car­rying arms, said U.S. Attorney D. Michael Crites yesterday. -1-P 
Artist Georgia O'Keefe, whose colorful abstracts and clearly defined paintings of flowers and bones made her a leading figure in contemporary American art, died yesterday. She was 98. O'Keefe was brought to St. Vincent Hospital in Santa Fe in midmorning and died at 12:20 p.m., said hospital spo~esman Charles Cullen. He had no other details on her death. "Her art is an individual one, expressing personal emotions and perceptions in a style that combines strength and crystalline clarity," wrote Lloyd Goodrich, former director of the Whitney Museum of American Art, when the museum organized a retrospective of O'Keefe's work in 1970. -AP 

Of Interest 
"In the Mood," a dance sponsored by the Notre Dame Chapel Choir, will take place tomorrow night in the North Dining Hall, from 9 p.m. to midnight. A big band will provide entertain­ment, and refreshments will be served. Tickets are $2 per person, or $3 per couple. -The Observer 
Professor Jim Bellis will present a film and discussion 
titled ''Quest for Fire" tonight at 7:30 in the Center for Social Con­
cerns. The discussion is sponsored by the Anthropology Club. 
-The Observer 
The 1986 Annual Young People's Recital will take place Sunday at 2 p.m. at Saint Mary' Little Theater. The recital is spon­sored by the Music Lovers Interest Group of Ladies of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. -The Observer 
International Women's Day Festival will be held at the Colfax Cultural Center Saturday from 7 to 11 p.m. The festival will feature musical entertainment, arts and crafts, inter­national food and social service information tables. The event is sponsored by the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom. -The Observer 
The French Club invites all to its creperie tonight from 8 to 11 p.m. in the cafe of the Center f9r Social Concerns. -The Observer 
Peter Abowd will perform music from his album "It's a Whip!" Saturday night at 8 in the Library auditorium. -The Observer 
A special recommitment to resistance will be the climax of the South Bend Pledge of Resistance meeting Sunday at 3 p.m. at the Broadway Christian Parish United Methodist Chur­ch, 1412 S, Carroll St. All who desire to make the pledge are welcome to attend and sign the commitment. -The Observer 

Weather • 
Hit the slopes this weekend, if you can get away from all the campus flurry. A 70 percent chance of snow today, with 2 to 3 in­ches of accumulation expected. Highs near 20. Partly cloudy and very cold tonight with lows from 5 to 10. Partly cloudy tomorrow with highs in the low to mid 30s. -AP 


The Observer is continuing to ex­perience typesetting difficulties in the daily operation of the newspaper. The staff apologizes for any delays or production er­rors. The situation will be amended as soon as possible. 


lbe Obeerver ( I'SPS 'i99 l-,.()(lO) is published :llonday through Friday ext·ept during exam and vacation JX'riods. lbe Obeerver is published by the students ofthel'niversit)' of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S.iU per year ( Jl() JX'r semester) by writing lbe Obeerver, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana -46'i'i6. 
lbe Obeerver is a member of The A.Moclaled Pre!IS. All reproduction right• are re.,-rved. 

L-------------------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, March 7, 1986 -page 2 


Students' persistence, hard work necessary to win fight for justice 
In the immortal words of Tom Petty, the waiting is 
the hardest part. 
Members of campus groups such as Rally against Starvation (RASTA), the World Hunger Coalition, Amnesty International and the Anti-Apartheid Net­work must have a great deal of dedication to the causes they are fighting for or else their enthusiasm will deteriorate into cynicism. 
Those students are willing to be pioneers in the fight for justice. This fight involves more than a simple ideological stance, the wearing of a RAST A T -shirt or the signing of a petition. Mass movements always arise from the hard work and preparation of a small group of dedicated people. 
But for one student group, the wait is over. 
Feb. 19, the Toledo, Ohio-based Farm Labor Organizing Committee (FLOC), signed an agreement with the Campbell's Soup Company and Michigan and Ohio tomato and cucumber farmers. This agree­ment ended a seven-year national boycott of Camp­bell's products and means better living and working conditions and higher wages for certain Midwestern farmworkers. 
The Notre Dame FLOC support group was formed in 1980 by a group of students. These students peti­tioned a student referendum calling for an official University boycott of Campbell's products. The stu­dent body voted for the University-wide boycott. 
"A yes vote on the ban at a major university such as Notre Dame will gain some publicity," said Anne Huber, FLOC spokeswoman, in the Feb. 8, 1980 edi­tion of The Observer. 
Apparently she had a point. Other Catholic organizations joined the boycott, including the Na­tional Conference of Catholic Charities and the Ohio Catholic Bishops. 
The boycott at Notre Dame was renewed in 1983 through another student referendum. Ifthe agreement of Feb. 19 had not been signed, the renewal of the boycott would have been on the March 4 ballot. 
The Notre Dame FLOC support group may seem like an obscure campus group to many students. It may seem like a handful of idealistic students plugging away at an impossible task. But their efforts, of Notre Dame students since 1980, have resulted in dedication to the cause behind the boycott. 
In simple terms it means a higher standard of living and the potential for better life for thousands of Midwestern farmworkers. 
"Victory for us is a victory for the entire campus," said Mary Jane Lorton of the Notre Dame FLOC sup­port group, after a press conference held by Baldemar Velasquez, president of FLOC, at Notre Dame Feb. 
26. She said FLOC's victory shows that an economic boycott can be effective. She said the successful boycott should be encouragement for groups such as the Anti-Apartheid Network. Economic pressure has led to change. 

Frank Lipo 
News Editor 


Notre Dame's participation in the Campbell's boycott began in February 1980. The boycott did not end until February 1986. Students who were members of the FLOC support group in 1980 weren't around to see the victories of 1986. 
But if it weren't for their efforts, there would be no celebration. 
Student groups which work for social justice have proved themselves effective. FLOC's success is not a fluke, but an attainable goal. 
2,082 students voted for divestment from com­panies which have operations in South Africa on Tuesday. They too believe that economic pressure can be effective in bringing about change. The Anti­Apartheid Network's efforts to educate student on this issue have not been in vain. 
Students must not let outrage at the situation in South Africa or at the high level of world hunger fade. The World Hunger Coalition continues to sponsor a Wednesday lunch fast. Every Friday at noon the Anti­Apartheid Network meets for a vigil/rally at the steps of the Administration Building. 
The fight is not over on these issues. These student groups have supplied the dedication, hard work and organization. It is up to students to rally around their efforts. 
Unlliedway for T1a1ks toyou... ALL it works ... 
OFUS
• 
AL 




BROTHERS 
A Religious Community of Men in the... 
HEALTH CARE MINISIRY 
Committed to Christ... 
Through a life of fraternal love, prayer and service to the sick, poor, dying and unwanted. 
• 
ADMINISTRATION • NURSING • CLERICAL • TECHNICAL 

• 
PASTORAL CARE • X-RAY • LABORATORY • ENGINEERING & MAINTENANCE • MECHANICAL WORK • PUBLIC RELA­TIONS • PHARMACY w COMMUNITY HEALTH, ETC. 


WRITE FOR INFORMATION 
Vocation Director, Alexian Brothers &00 Alexian Way, Elk Grove Village, IL &0007 
______state_____Zip•----­
'----Education ______:.:Te::...l:..::N°"----J 529 
"A HEALING PRESENCE" •n••••••n••••••••n••••n•u•nn•••n•uuuu 
HOSPITAL AND HEALTH CENTERS: Elk Grove Village, ILL.!Eiizabeth, N.)./St. Louis, Mo./San )o,e, CaiJSignal Mt., Tenn./Milwaukee, Wise. Brothe" workin in the MI>'IOns m lhl' Phd1 inl''· 
-

1, 
l 1 
The Observer Friday, March 7, 1986 -page 3 
Steinem, Schafley to visit campus 
By THERESA GUARINO 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor 
Gloria Steinem and Phyllis Schafley will undoubtedly view the issues differently, but both will be discussing the changing roles of men and women next week during a speaker series coordinated by Notre Dame's junior class. 
"A Quiet Revolution: A View of Changing Values and Lifestyles," is the title of the series, sponsored by various organizations at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
"A lot of us at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's come from con­servative backgrounds," said John Gormley, the Flanner represen­tative to the junior class. "Many of us are not aware of the changes go­ing on in society." 
Gormley said he saw a problem existing on campus in relation to men and women's roles, and ap­proached Junior Class President Jim Domagalski about a possible series dealing with the topic. 
To get more input on the series, topics and speakers, Gormley went to Joni Neal, director of student ac­tivities, and Father William Beauchanp, executive assistant to the president, who approved of the idea. Series organizers then con­tacted Julie Harmon, vice president for academic affairs at Saint Mary s, who agreed to co-sponsor the series. Gormley also met with Bill Healy, student body president, and Mike Vore, ideas and issues com­missioner for student government. 
The speaker series will kick off Sunday night with Jean Kilbourne, an author of extensive research on sex role stereotyping. Kilbourne will show a slide presentation in the Library auditorium of "The Naked Truth: Advertising's Image . of Women." Her lecture begins at 8 p.m. 
Tuesday night, Schafley and Sarah Weddington will debate at 7 
p.m. in Washington Hall on "The Changing Roles of Men and Women in the 1980's." Weddington is the lawyer who won the 1973 case of Roe vs. Wade, which legalized abortion. She was also President Carter's advisor on women's issues. 
Schafley is a well-known oppo­nent to the Equal Rights Amend­ment and a leader of the pro-family movement. She has testified before House and Senate Committees on the subject and has been a delegate to five Republican National Con­ventions. 
Sister Joan Chittester, an ad­vocate of women's rights and the peace movement, will speak on "It's a Man's World-The Question is Why?" Wednesday night at 8 in the Center for Continuing Education. 
Chittester will discuss equality in the Catholic Church. She is a col­umnist for the National Catholic Reporter and a prioress of a Benedictine convent in Erie, Penn. Chittester received her M.A. from Notre Dame in 1968. 
Closing the series on Thursday at 8 p.m. in Angela Athletic Facility, Steinem will speak on "The 80's: The Second Wave." Steinem is a well-known leader in the women's rights movement, and proponent of the ERA. She is also writer and editor of MS. and Cosmopolitan magazines. 
The Schafley-Weddington debate and Steinem talk will cost $2; all other events are free of charge. Tickets are available at the Ticket Stub in the basement of LaFortune, at Gate 10 of the ACC or at O'Laughlin Auditorium's Box Of­fice. 




PARSONS 
SCHOOL OF DESIGN 
Special Suf!Zmer Programs 


PARIS WEST AFRICA ITALY LAKE PLACID JAPAN NEW YORK 
International programs offer courses including painting, drawing, fashion, graphic design, photography, decorative arts, architectural history, art history, archaeology, ceramics, fibers and metals. Undergraduate and graduate credit is available to qualified students. For more information, mail the coupon below or call the Office of Special Programs: (212) 741-8975 
Parsons School of Design, Office of Special Programs, 66 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10011 
Please send me a brochure on Parsons Special Swnmer Programs. 
Name -----------------------------------------------------­
Address City 27A  State  Zip  
I am a  0  college student  0  teacher  0  other  

Poet Clayton Eshleman examines man's dual nature 
By PATRICIA KEALEY 
News Staff 

Poet, editor and translator Clayton Eshleman talked to students about his role as a poet and read from his diverse work last night in the library auditorium. 
"I think I have a responsibility to respond to the crucial actions of the government in my own time and to make myself manifest by showing as im­aginatively as possible where I stand," the Indiana-born poet said. 
Eshleman showed particular concern for the oppressed, as in­dicated by several poignant poetry readings. 
His poem "Certification," written in 1983, responded to 
U.S. involvement in El Salvador with horrific images of Salvadorean pain and hopeful ones for American sensitivity. 
The poem was like several he read, where .the problem put forth was attributed to the duality in man's nature. The animal and the man are not reconciled, rather ". . . the human hides in the animal," he read. 
He examined the conflicts within human nature more light­ly in "Junk Mail," a poem which begins with an invitation the poet received and ends with his vision of the decadent par­tygoers sporting clothing made by those less well-fed than American pets. 
Eshleman also explored man's 
internal conflicts as a writer, an 
artist. He was particularly con­
cerned with the supposed con­
flict between physical man and 
creative man. 
Denying the conflict , 
Eshleman explained, ''The rela­
tionship between sexual and 
creative energy is essentially har­
monious. We need release on 
both levels, and we do not gain 
more in one place by suppress­
ing the other." He has not 
always been resolved on the 
issue, however, and some of the 
poems he read reflected his 
struggles. 
The award-winning poet and 
translator has traveled widely, 
and is intrigued by Japanese and 
primeval life. 
His poem, "Permanent Shadows," contrasts the first great human construction, the cave paintings at Lascoux, France, with the first great human deconstruction, the con­centration camps, both of which surfaced in the 1930s. It is another commentary on human and societal defects, and it is characteristic of Eshleman because of its unique illustration of classic problems. 
Although he is well-read and writes from experience and history, he insists on making his writing original and his style distinct. 
Eshleman was, born in In­dianapolis and attended Indiana University at Bloomington. 
EUROPEAN 
TRAVEL 
We specialize in student trips I SEVEN SEAS TRAVEL 
*Lowest prices available *We handle all travel details 
232-7995 
525 N. MICHIGAN 
The Student Activities Board Presents .. 
Sophomore Literary Festival 1986 Authors are holding workshops at the following times and dates: 
Clayton Eshleman, Friday March 712:15pm Robert Cormles, Saturday March 8 11:00 am 
• 


The Observer Friday, March 7, 1986 -page 4 
Alcohol to be focus 
r 

for awareness week 
r 
r 
By SEAN NEALON 
News Staff 
~ 
Alcohol Awareness Week, a stu­' r dent government-sponsored series
, 
of panel discussions, guest speakers, workshops, and a dance to inform students of the dangers
,r of alcohol abuse and to offer alter­natives to drinking, will begin Sun­day. 
Notre Dame's Alcohol Concerns Commission, a student government branch, in conjunction with the Around the Corner Club and the Student Activities Board, has plan­ned the week's events. 
The timing of the week coincidesf with the regional meeting of the na­tionwide student group Bacchus, an organization concerned with 
! f responsible drinking. According to Fifi Paraiso, alcohol concerns commissioner, and Ciel Paulson of SAB, prepara­
,r 
tions for the week began last September.
r 
One of the main reasons for in-
r 
r itiating the week was the perception 
, 
that a hidden alcohol problem ex-
r 
ists on campus, Paraiso said. 
r 
"Since the alcohol policy, many more students have become closet drinkers," she explained. "Many RAs in various dorms have com­plained that · more students have turned to drinking in their own rooms as a result of the lack of 
, places to socialize." 
A variety of groups are involved with the week's events, including members of Alcoholics Anonymous, Notre· Dame's Counseling and Psychological Ser­vices, the Michiana Coalition and University students. 
Key speakers during the week in-elude Dr. Terry Goodale, the na­tional Bacchus representative and Vice Chancellor for Student Af­fairs at the University of Denver, who will talk about campus alcohol policies and responsible drinking; Dr. Terry Alley, who will discuss the biological effects of alcohol, symptoms of the alcoholic and rehabilitation methods; and Molly Sullivan, director of alcohol educa­tion at Saint Mary's, who will ad­dress alcohol and sexuality in addi­tion to the problem of peer pressure. 
r ~~~~ 
r 
r r r Happy Birthday, ~ Carrie Thomas! 
r 
' 
r r Love, 
~ 
The Badin Beasts 
~ 

******************************* 





MANAGER APPLICATIONS 
are now available for the NEW Undergraduate Club in Lafortune for the 1986-87 academic year! 
Positions Available: 

General Manager Rental~. Manager F cod/Beverage Manager Promotions Manager Programming Manager 
Deadline for applications is Wednesday, March 12. Interviews will be March 17-19. Pick up applications in the Student Activities Office, 1st Floor of LaFortune. 

-~-------------~--------~-----------~--­
The Observer 

• 
APPhoto

Royal story teller 
Kathleen Cawkwe/1, 4, sits on the lap of Britain's Princess Diana, during a royal visit to Dr. Barnardo's Family Day Centre in Hull earlier this week. 

,1 
1 
' 
l 
Friday, March 7, 1986 -page 5 1 
1 
1 

U.S. gov't makes survival plans 1 ' 
1 1 
1

for nuclear warfare, says author ' 
By ELLEN McDONALD and MARK PANKOWSKI News Staff The U.S. government  has  pointed out that "single men and single women are separated by family groups which is designed specifically to discourage ex­tramarital and premarital sexual  "As you can see, it advises people to avoid the 'emotional' idea that they might be better off dead than alive after a nuclear war." While doing his research,  1 1 1, ~  
elaborate plans to  ensure  that its  activity in the fallout shelter."  Zuckerman  said  he  uncovered  
citizens survive a nuclear war, said author and journalist Edward Zuckerman, speaking last night at the Notre Dame Law School. "If you're like most people, you  Other provisions in the shelter guide include suggestions to utilize group singing and arts and crafts in order to keep survivors' spirits up, said Zuckerman, whose lecture was  detailed evacuation plans which send citizens from ''risk" areas, such as large cities, to small com­munities called "host" areas. In­cluded among these plans are  ~  
assume . . . that a nuclear war would be more or less the end of the world," said Zuckerman. ••tis is a fairly reasonable way  sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns, Office of University Ministry and the Law School Social Justice Forum.  evacuation instructions, travel routes, and a list of items to bring when evacuating .  
to think about nuclear war. But it's  Another  of Zuckerman's  slides  Showing a map marked with dots  
not the way the U.S. government, our government, thinks about nuclear war," said Zuckerman, speaking to approximately 40 peo­ showed a civil defense diagram for a homemade shelter. Accompany­ing the diagram were directions for digging a trench, parking a car on  indicating those areas thought to be targeted by Russia, Zuckerman noted that South Bend had a dark spot on it.  
ple. Every major federal agency has a  top, filling the car with dirt, and keeping people in the trench to pro­ According  to  Zuckerman,  
staff planning ways  to  carry out  tect them from radiation fallout.  several emergency documents have  
that  agency's  functions  after  a  Zuckerman  noted  that  these  been set aside by the government in  
nuclear attack, he said.  homemade  shelters  are  not  the  the  event  of  a  nuclear  war,  in­ 
Out of this planning has  come  government's main plans for ensur­ cluding "a bill to be submitted to  
provisions for survivors to change their post office addresses, sleep in  ing that its civilian population sur­vives a nuclear war. Instead it is  Congress, if Congress can be found, authorizing the IRS (Inter­ 
fallout shelters designed to dis­courage illicit sex and file late in­ designed by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).  nal Revenue Service) to waive in­terest penalties against taxpayers  
come tax returns, the author noted. Showing a slide of a U.S. Post Office Emergency Change of Ad­dress Card, Zuckerman said in the  Among FEMA's plans is a children's educational program on civil defense. This program in­cludes a coloring book complete  who, after a nuclear attack, file late returns due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect." Also among the emergency  
event of a nuclear war, these cards  with directions to "color what you  documents is a declaration of war,  
will allow survivors to "go to their  would need in a shelter," he said.  "already  written  up  with  a  few  
nearest post office and fill out one of these cards so that their mail can be forwarded to their new address."  "You're supposed to color in the crackers, the juice, the beans and the radio, not the fish and the  blanks left in it ­like the date, and the name of the enemy."  
"No junk mail will be forward­ed," added Zuckerman, whose book "The Day After World War III" documents the federal govern­ment's strategy for addressing the problems of life following a nuclear  cake." An educational program also ex­ists for adults, he said. Showing a slide of an article written by civil defense officials, Zuckerman said it is intended to be distributed to local  Although these government preparations seem harmless because they don't harm anyone, Zuckerman said these plans do create a great danger: they lead to an attitude among officials that the  
war.  newspapers when  an  international  United States can survive a nuclear  
Showing a slide of a civil defense  crisis looks to be heading toward a  war, and life can go on  almost as 

Sunday 3/9 
2-Spm 
Monday 3/10 
7:30-9:30 pm 
Breen-Phllllps Hall 
~~· ~~~ 
~~J\) 
Tuesday 3/11 
8:3Q-11 :30 pm 
Panel Discussion 
of Dillon Hall Chapel/ 
Concertat South 
Dining Hall 
Wednesday 3/12 8-10 pm -t 18 Nlewland 
~lenceHall 
Thurday 3/13 9pm-1 am Stepan Center 
Friday 3/1.4 
8:30 am"" pm 
Dr. Tom Goodale, guest speaker 
Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs 
University of Denver Center for 
Social Concerns 
Panel Discussion lk VIewing of Film, ".1 0 Kills" 
Guest Speakers 
Molly Sullivan, Director of Alcohol 
Education at Saint Mary's College 
Karen., Alcoholics Anonymous 
Dr. Terry Alley, Renaissance Center 
Barb Noser, Exec. Dlr. of Alcoholism 
Council 
Panel Discussion & Performance by Dan Peed, voice of the Musical Group "America" 
GuestSoeakers 
Molly Sullivan 
Barb Noser 
Solly Coleman, Lutheran General 
Panel Dlacusalon (Featuring Notre 
Dame Student~) • Vlewtng the film, 
"Choices" 
Guest Porelt:.t Bryan Dedrick S\:.~:.i. Marczyk Mark Herkert Mark McNulty 
Kristen Williams 
D.J. "The Soundmaster" • Dance 
Bacchus Regional Workshop 
Center for Continuing Education 
manual's sleeping chart, Zuckerman nuclear war. normal afterward. 

1 
1 
,j 
, 
,1 
l ~ 

The Observer Friday, March 7, 1986 -page 6 
candidates. They were pretty confi-r-----------------------------------------; dent.
Runoff 
"I didn't think we had 52 percentcontinuedfrom page 1 of fun-lovers here at Notre Dame," 


Army ROTC wins notable award 
fun. We're gonna stay this way," he he noted. "I'm so psyched there is. 
noted. "We're only going to be as serious as we need to. You can be fun and efficient at the same time." 
Said Montanaro, "We're a Cinderella story. This could only happen in America." 
While Montanaro and sup­porters celebrated, Domagalski and Bink sat in their LaFortune offices. 
"We would've like to win," said Domagalski. ''The important things are still there for us. 
"Despite the fact that we lost, we still feel that we were by far the best ticket for student body office in the past three years. 
"Our experien~e is quite exten­sive, our record proven, and our view of the future was optimistic, productive, aggressive, and fun for the students," noted Domagalski. 
Added Bink, "My dad always told me that if I ever ran for office, , I had to be ready to win or lose. And on the way to LaFortune (to the Ombudsman office), we talked
~ 
about it (losing). We were ready." 
r 
Referring to Switek's and Mon­
r 
r tanaro's election, Domagalski said, "I think it was nothing out of the
r 
ordinary. With two tickets there's r always a 50-50 chance of winning. r When we received the results of the r run-off we were pleased.r "However, the first thing we did , was to caJI our campaign staff and 
r 
' 
let them know we were back to 0-0, r and they were to take Switek as
r 
seriously as any ticket in the run­
r 
, 
r off," he said. r 'We took the Wednesday cam­paign day with the same r seriousness," he noted. "Laurie and r I campaigned throught Fisher, Dillon, Howard, Flanner, Stanford ,' and Sorin from five to midnight." According to Montanaro,,,' 
Domagalski and Bink were ''tough 
"It was a shock. When we started we set a goal of five percent. Today (Thursday) we set a moral goal of 35 percent." 
Montanaro said he is confident that he and Switek know enough to be a successful presidential team. 'We learned a lot at the debate the other night. Mike and I will stay here over spring break and read everything we can. 
''The only qualifications any president has to have is an open mind and a relaxed attitude. And we think we have both. They (students) need people who will listen." 
'We have an immense respect for the Hall Presidents' Council. We'll make sure there's no overlapping in the governmental bodies." 
Also discussing governmental matters was Domagalski, noting, "There's a dire need for student 
By KENDRA LEE MORRILL 
News Staff 
Academic reputation and athletic teams, move over. 
Notre Dame is now known for excellence in one more area, as its Army Reserve Officer Training Corps has been named the outstanding ROTC unit in the 2nd ROTC Region. 
Lieutenant Colonel Robert Skin­ner, professor of military science at Notre Dame, said this is the highest award a ROTC unit can receive, because there is no national award. 
The second region consists of 92 schools in nine states, including In­diana, Illinois, Michigan, Missouri, Ohio, Kentucky, Wisconsin, Tennessee and West Virginia. There are four such regions in the United States. 
During a ceremony yesterday in of the nation. 

During inspections last fall, no deficiencies were given out of a group of 220 people. This is ''unheard of," said Skinner. "The inspectors will inspect until they find something. It's like a game." 
According to comparative statistics, Notre Dame cadets seem to know the Army is right for them. The freshman retention ra<e is 78 percent compared to a 48 percent national rate; the sophomore reten­tion rate is 98 percent, compared to a 54 percent national rate. 
Junior and senior cadets have a 100 percent retention rate. 
Skinner said he feels the key to quality and success is involvement. "If people are involved, they develop a feeling of ownership in the program. With a feeling of ownership, they want to make the program work." 
government to be totally rebuilt. •-----------------------------------------l 
the Library auditorium, a cer­tificate with a special citation was presented to Skinner and other Notre Dame officers by a represen­tative from the Order of Founders and patriots of America, sponsor of the award. 
The honor is based on the perfor­mance and effectiveness of the whole Notre Dame ROTC unit, Skinner said. 
The unit's superior ability was demonstrated by its overall first place finish in the Purdue Ranger Meet, in which 20 competitive schools participated. Notre Dame's cadets took three first-places out of six categories. 
Statistics also illustrate the outstanding quality of the Army cadets, Skinner explained. In the Air Borne Special Training School, 100 percent of Notre Dame ROTC cadets completed their training, compared to 80 percent of the rest 
This is evidenced by the lack of respect students have for student government now. Laurie and I had hoped to rebuild it. We hope som~:­day soon we'll be able to do it and give the students at Notre Dame the leadership they deserve." 
Clarification 
Two employees of the newly­opened computer store in Room 25 of the Computing Center pic­tured in yesterday's front-page picture were unidentified. Terry Frost, the technician at the store, was at the left of the pic­ture. Steve Cox, store manager, was at the right of the picture. 
Be Stylish ... be Irish 
In magical IRISH KNITS 
from 
BLARNEY CASTLE 
Pllyable to K.ilte's M•&lc In check, money order. VIS<~ or M..terUird 
Phone orders: 1·800·2l7·8400 E~t. 17 
A. Skisweater. 100'1. pure wool in green and cream with 
shamrock design 5~5 00 
8. Crewneck "Ireland" sweater, 100'\. soh acrylic In kelly greentwhite lettering 534.00 
C. Crewnetk. shamrock design knitted into 100" wool In 
emerald Rreen SSS 00 
I "-' f''~ j~· _. ~~..,.., '""' Mo•n ' M I XI 
. " X.,., M
~\~•rm•n t 
I ~·~··•''"~·1 ..··· I~
1....,.,,.,1,., TOTAll ___, 
\olo!h• e -e e 
,, ..,.,,,,,,, 


Consider a truly FULL LIBERAL ARTS EDUCATION 
...meet PLS faculty and students 
Monday, March 10, 7:00p.m. GRACE PIT PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIES 
We. are MOVING these events: 

Due to the renovation ofLaFortune, the Ballroom will not be availablefor reservations this semester. 
Thefollowing events have been moved to the NEW locations listed below: 
MARCH7 MARCHB MARCH10 
MARCHll 
MARCH15 MARCH15 
/ 

SOPHOMORE COTILLION CHAPEL CHOIR -Waltz Ball ALCOHOL AWARENESS WEEK-
Panel Discussion ALCOHOL AWARENESS WEEK-Panel Discussion Dan Peek Concert KEVIN HURLEY BENEFIT DANCE 
; 
/ 

l.S.O. FE~TIVAL-RECEPTION 
I 
I 

SOUTH DINING HALL NORTH DINING HALL 
118 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE 
DILLONHALL CHAPEL 
SOUTH DINING HALL 
ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB 
LOBBY, LaFORTUNE 

1 
1 1
Accent ,1 ~ Friday, March 7, 1986 -page 7 1 1 1 
1 
1 
1

The Church is for growth of faith in this life 
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
The letter from a 1980 Notre Dame graduate arrived in the mor­ning mail. David wrote, "How can I be saved? 'I am the Way, and the Truth, and the Life; no one comes to the Father except through me.' You know what? I had never, never understood the plan of salvation. I realized that I was a sinner, dead in my sins, and stuck there unless I asked Jesus to save me .... It took me about three months to make a decision, but I've never looked back. I left the Church, gave my life to Christ, and things have never been the same .... 
"As a student at Notre Dame, I never understood God's place in my life, and I'm no dummy. The free gift of God in Jesus was a marvelous revelation to me. Please reach the students there right now with that message. Hit them between the eyes with it, because the; often won't listen, just like me. Tell them the hard truth of their own sinfulness and how Jesus can wash them clean as snow ...." 
Years ago, I accepted Christ as my personal Savior, as David has 
a bid in the Sugar Bowl, where the team's opponent would be the third-ranked Tigers of LSU. 

Nicki's discovery 
It happened Tuesday. 
Nicki had been researching a term paper for her feature writing class on the topic of the golden age of sports. The Memorial Library housed an extensive International Sports and Games Collection, a perfect place to research the subject. 
The Gipper's Gho~ ChGpter20 ~ 
As she leafed carefully through the old books and research materials, she naturally gave special attention to references to Notre Dame, Knute Rockne and the other legends of Fighting Irish history. But she wasn't prepared for the shock when she opened a manila folder marked "George Gipp." The eyes staring at her from the photograph were hauntingly familiar. 
In the wink of an eye, all the clues came together. 
NormBarry. Valparaiso. 1920. 
"Oh, my God, I know who he is.'' 
The confrontation came the next morn­ing. After breakfast, Dutch and Nicki took their usual stroll around the lake. They were nearly halfway around it when Nicki grew strangely silent. Dutch wondered why. 
She broke the quiet. "Do you think we'll win Saturday, George?" 
"Are you kidding? We'll do just great. Hart's been very sharp in practice and ..." He stopped. One unguarded moment, he thought. ''What did you call me?" 


done. Fundamentalists reJOICe in the idea of their eternal salvation. At 20, I wasn't ready to spend the rest of my life relishing pie-in-the­sky-bye-and-bye. Henry David Thoreau put it best. When asked if he was prepared for the next life, he answered, "One life at a time." Exactly; to me, that sounds like a witty insight. Then, as now, faith was important as a way of defeating the futility human beings are faced with in this present life. If I made good use of each day's graces through the years of my life, I trusted that God would open the gates of His city very wide when the time came for me to go home. I never went through any conversion experience out of fear of hell, or preached fire-and-brimstone ser­
mons to the doubters. 
Hell is part of the teaching of the New Testament; but the idea is too monstrous to seem really threaten­ing. Every Christian must face the possibility of losing God forever; that's part of what the Bible means by hell. Now that I'm getting older, I worry about saving my sout 

Nicki's discovery brings her face to face with a ghost 
This is the 20th epiSOde of The ' . Observer's serial publicption of the Notre Dame football s(C:>ry,' "The Gipper's ~.: Ghost. "In the I9t}fepisode, which ran two •1~ weeks ago, F,atizer Rom•no, president of • •• the Univer!Jj·jy, joyously ordered the ring-~~­ing. Qjthe bells of Sacred Heart Church in ~~ ( celebration of Notre Dame's acceptance of ~ ,.-..... 
Somettung wonderful has hap­pened to David. He has found God; he has found Christ; he has found salvation. I wouldn't argue with David's version of the truth. However, he bothers the devil out of me when he says he left the Catholic Church in order to find Christ. The Catholic Church is the Lord's showcase. It hurts me to think the Church has failed David. How could it happen? 
Notre Dame is very busy being Catholic. A student would have to be blind, it seems, if he fails to see Christ on this committed campus. The Lord is made visible in a cou­ple of hundred liturgies every day, and His sacred symbols are everywhere. Yet a student sear­ching for peace of soul complains that he doesn't see Christ here. 
In answering him, one could beat him over the head with proofs of the presence of Christ; for exam­ple, He is sacramentally present in all the chapels where the Eucharist is reserved. Maybe the student doubts the importance of the Eucharist; maybe the Mass feels to him like sacred hocus-pocus. Maybe he needs help in learning his faith well enough to appreciate the visibility of Christ in His Church. 
We are saved by faith, St. Paul tells us. St. James adds, "Faith without works is dead." Maybe the problem is, we have concentrated on works, while faith has shrunk, or was still-born. Maybe the hun­dred projects of charity have become the most important part of our Christianity. We are so afraid of being like the Pharisees prac­ticinng a religion that is all rules, and no heart. 

Maybe we have been so busy handing out cups of cold water to the least of Christ's brethren, that we have failed to make the acquain­tance of the Master. The some cynic complains about not seeing Christ in what we are doing, and we point to our activism as a proof that we're on God's side. 
A Catholic woman, ordained as a minister of the Congrega­tionalists, told me of visiting some nuns in Peru. She said, ''They have this stunning convent in the heart of the city, perfectly ordered as an oasis of peace and prayer. Outside the walls of the convent, wretched people are going through agonies. The sisters live untouched by the world outside their door." 
Contemplative communities do have their special lifestyles. But the Church, as a servant to mankind, cannot limit its ministry to prayers in the cloister. The Lord gave us hands so that we can dress the 
· .~ 

1 

''You're George Gipp, aren't you? I don't know how or why, and God knows this season has been enough to make an Jrish Catholic believe in miracles, but you are George Gipp, aren't you? Please tell me the truth." 
Dutch had promised Nicki he would never lie to her. He couldn't do it now. 
''Yes, Nicki, it's true." 
"George ... Dutch ... what do I call you now • . . what do I do • . . this is possibly the biggest story of my life . . . I should write this up in The Observer ... the world should know ... an angel of God save& the Notre Dame football team singlehandedly .
.. 

' ~ • • 
In a rare moment of modesty, Dutch said, ''That's not quite accurate. God lmows I'm no angel, and I'm not acting alone ... " He wished he hadn't said that! 
''There are more of you? Who else?" 
"Rock's here, too." 

Slowly, it dawned on her who "Rock" was. 
''You mean Knute Rockne? The Knute Rockne?" 
I must be losing my mind, she thought. 
She asked, "Which one of my friends is he? No, don't tell me. Let me guess. Hart? No. Shenandoah? No. Please don't tell me it's Lauren." 
1 
1 
,1 
wounds of the sick, and try to heal them. In this age, when the contrast 1 between the affluent and the under­
~ 
dogs is so conspicuous, the tension of the old discussion is hard to resolve: is it better to be a Mary­person, notable for faith, or a Martha-person notable for works? It seems like a mistake to substitute works for faith, as though religion was only a matter of services, but not of mysteries. 
A number of young Catholics like David have become dropouts from the Catholic Church, because they feel undernourished in their hunger for Christ on a mystical level. One hopes they find their way back to the Church, in the company of the Lord who brought them to spiritual rebirth. As the Savior, He is visible through the Church. David is more bound to the Church than he presently dreams. Even in his new affiliation, God hasn't finished with him yet as a Chris­tian. 
Christ is present in all the good works people do, even if they are 
non-believers. he was doing more than encouraging us to good works when He told us, "I am the Way, and the Truth, and the Life; no one comes to the Father except through Me.'' As David requested, I want to hit you between the eyes with this conviction, which David holds as firmly as the Pope. 
"None of the above, Nicki. He's Father 
Rock, the team chaplain. God thought that 
would make a great cover for him." 
This isn't happening, Nicki thought. 
"In the last three minutes, you've told me 
that yo~'re .George Gipp, that ~nute 
Rockne IS ahve and well and weanng a 
Roman collar, and that you talk to God on 
a regular basis! 
"Doesn't everybody?" 
''That's beside the point. Good Lord!" 
"Nicki, I can't let you write that story. It 
might upset God's plan. This is bigger than both of us. And besides, no one will believe you." 
Just then, the full implication hit Nicki. 
She burst into tears. 
"Now what's wrong?" 
"Everything, Dutch! My whole life. Do you know what you have really told me?" 
"What?" 
"You've just told me I've fallen in love with a ghost. All the men available on the campus of the University of Notre Dame and I fall in love with 'The Gipper's Ghost.' Only, you really are a ghost!" 
She ran away. She called over her shoulder, "I don't think I can see you any more. Ever.'' 
Tears filled her eyes as she ran back to Breen-Phillips. She entered her room, lock­ed the door and hurled herself onto her bed, weeping bitterly. 
A dozen peach roses were delivered to her room two hours later. The note was from Dutch. 
"Nicki," the note began, "I'm very sorry this happened. The truth is, I love you, too. Always will. Maybe someday we can be together again. Dutch." 
She cried for two more hours. 
Later, she was able to compose herself. She went to her office at The Observer on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center. 
She didn't write the story. She did ask for a favor from the ad manager. 
The next day, Dutch Reagan discovered a message in the personals column of The Observer classifieds: GEORGE. YOUR SECRET IS SAFE WITH ME. I'LL ALWAYS REMEMBER YOU. 
To be continued ••• 
From "The Gippcr'l Oholt." copyriah1 1915 by Robert Quakenbush. Published by O'Connor Publilhlnl Co. Reprinled by penniuion. 

_____________________________________________________. 
~i~~~_()__i_ll__t__________________F_ri-day_,M_a_rch_7_,19-86__p_age_s 


Many lives can be ruined because of Catholicism 
Consider the following example: A "good girl," reacting to pressure from her impa­tient, long-time boyfriend finally succumbs and finds herself pregnant. Now, it isn't that she is promiscuous. She isn't. She really loves the man she has given herself to, or she wouldn't have done it. But she wasn't prepared. No one helped her to get birth con­trol because she was too embarrassed by the entire subject and she didn't really expect her boyfriend to impregnate her. After all, she was a nice girl. 
Gertie Wimmer 
guest column 
Let's take it a bit further, and make it all the more real. Say that this is a girl at Notre Dame, a girl with good grades and a bright future. Her boyfriend is in her class, not ready for a wife or a future, but nonetheless ready to confirm his relationship with her. And then she gets pregnant. What's to be done? 
Can this girl go home and tell her parents? Certainly not. Her parents expect her to be the perfect daughter, the virginal daughter, not the type of girl who gets pregnant before she gets married. Despite their stereotypes, her parents and others of their generation are wrong. The perfect and virginal daughter is the one most likely to get pregnant, and the one who has to ruin her life. I say she should think again before she does it. 
Here is her choice: she could keep the child. It is now March, and the baby is due in August. That's at least two semesters worth of work down the old we. And that's not to mention her gaining a reputation that'll be hard to carry. And the future is far from promising. 
Next option: she could give the baby up after she has it. This is a possibility, it is true. But what about the months of torment and shame? What about the years of wondering what happened to her child, wondering about the possible anguish her child is going through, years of just wondering.· There is going to be hurt, and when it hurts that deep­ly, it hurts bad. I would never subject a child or his parents to anything like that. 
Possibility three: she could keep the child, on the vague hope that she and her steady eventually get married. It is possible, but of course they aren't ready. If they got married now to save her from the shame of unwedded motherhood, there would be years of regreat as they wonder what they could have had as separate people, who else they could have met, what else they could have accomplished. What then? What happens to the child as it grows up in an unhappy home, an unstable home? It ~so ends up with psychological problems. Happy birthday, baby. 
I am not going to suggest to you that the mother abort the child. It is murder. I know that, and I'm sure that you know that. I am not pro-abortion. But I am pro-choice, pro­mother, at least in certain cases. And in this particular case, the girl's life, and the life of everyone else involved, would be made easier if she chose to abort the child. Yes, she would be committing murder, but it is a justifiable murder, if there can ever be something like that, one to save herself and her well-being. No act of self-defense in war could be more noble. And self-defense is no crime, so neither is abortion, if necessary. I don't recommend it, I'm not pushing it. And I do realize that it is an inclination to want to save yourself if you are trapped. It cannot be wrong if that is the choice you make. It is not wrong to save yourself. It is selfish, but it is understandable. 

The answer to all these horrifying scenarios is birth control. Sex is a fact of life. Good girls do, as Helen Gurley Brown well documents, and they end up paying for it with their futures. All it would take to save them from this kind of a decision, whether or not to kill your child, whether or not to murder, would be a series of little pills, or a package of Trojans. Prayer is unfortunately not an effective method of birth control, even for a Catholic girl. God does not show favoritism during the sperm-egg roulette. You take your chances if you play, and as everyone well knows, taking chances can be risky. 
I am also well aware the Pope is against birht control, but like abortifacients, which destroy life that has already been started. He is against the prevention of life on principles, but isn't breaking a principle easier than committing a murder? 
In my opinion, the Church should come out in favor of birth control methods like the pill. Ifit doesn't, it risks condemning a lot of good Catholic girls to hell for murder, or sending them to heaven for martyrdom. I wish one of my best friends had seen this point of view before she limited her options and fell into the trap described above. 
Men, not only at Notre Dame, but everywhere should learn to look at a woman's point of view, for the life of a woman in trouble is not an easy one. They can easily fall away from the Church because of disillusionment, not only with their boyfriends and their support groups, which tend not to be too supportive at times like this, but with themselves. And that must be a most horrible feeling. 
I hate to say, after all these years of Catholic school that I am in favor of birth control. But the fact is, that I am a woman and was a woman before I was a Catholic. As a woman, I support my own survival. The Pope, and other men of the world, have left me no choice. 
Gertie Wimmer is a junior English major at Saint Mary's. 



P.O.BoxQ 

Trust has been violated by the administration 
Dear Editor: 
It is with sadness and disappointment that I write this letter. Censorship is a serious issue. Father Cafarelli's recent directive to the director of WSND-FM not to air the Public Service Announcement for the Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame-Saint Mary's constitutes censorship. As such, the action is, in my eyes, possibly illegal, and at best unethical. 
Any pubJic service radio station, regardless of its affiliation, has a reponsibili­ty to its listening public to air informational announcements. The PSA for Gays and Les­bians at Notre Dame-Saint Mary's was neither an endorsement nor a statement of the ethics of homosexual lifestyles. Your order to censure the PSA, was, however, such a judgement. 
What will be next? A review of the PSA's currently allowed to be read on the air at WSND yields a varied assortment. Of in­terest is the PSA for internships sponsored by Governor Bob Orr. The PSA reads ''The interns will assist the governor and his staff in several areas, including . . .stategovern­ent operations." As you know, the govern­ment of the state of Indiana administers state-sponsored abortions. Presumably, you 
Doonesbury 
would not like any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student to be involved in such activi­ty. Furthermore, the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom has a PSA on the air advertising its International Women's Day Festival. Are you aware that the WILPF's statement of purpose includes an explicit support of "reproductive right for women," such as rights to birth control and abortion? Do you plan to censure these PSA's as well? Where will the line be drawn ? Surely the University does not plan on a continuous abridgement of one of the most precious rights granted to us by the Bill of Rights, namely the freedom of speech. 
As I have said, it is with sadness and disappointment that I write this letter. In my years as a student at Notre Dame, I have learned to respect the rights of each human person as a beloved child of God. The University's choice to deny the existence of a particular group of people-homosexuals at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's-is a great tragedy of myopia. 
I can no longer associate myself with an instrument of repression. It is with sorrow, then, that I must tender my resignatwn from my position as an announcer at WSND-FM. This means that I will no longer assume responsibility for my on-air shifts in any capacity. Nor will I be involved in the train­ing of new personnel or for finding a replace­ment for my shifts. 
I hope that Cafarelli will seriously con­sider the ramifications of his action, and I look forward to his response. 

Joann E. Moschella Farley Hal/ 
Censorship warranted manager's resignation 
Dear Editor: 

It is with deep regret that I must resign my position as program director /station manager of WVFI-AM. The reasons for my resignation are the same as Eileen Ridley's, for I too feel that the recent policy toward the station is unfair, a form of censorship and a form of discrimination in my opinion. I, as a personal principle, cannot enforce the policy as it goes against everything I have ever been taught to believe in and for me to remain in office gives the appearance that I agree with the policy. I do not feel that fighting immorality with injustice is an ap­propriate response and in my opinion that is exactly what is happening here. Though l do not personally support the cause of gay beliefs, I do support their right to announce that they do exist and they are a part of the community, just like every other human be­ing and group of persons. 
It is my opinion that WSND is a public 
radio station that serves all the public of 
Michiana and not just certain members of 
the public. It holds a sacred trust for which it 
is responsible. WVFI is, in my opinion, a 
Garry Trudeau 
student station run by the students to serve all the students and not just a select few. In my opinion the trust has been violated by the University's recent decision and that serious questions about the stations' direc­tion and goals, as well as their editorial in­dependence. Ifthey are meant to be Catholic or University stations then they need to be run as such and student managers aren't ap­propriate. It has always been my contention that this is not what either of the stations were meant to be but the recent a~.:Lions of the University tend to give more weight to the contention that the stations are an outlet for the ideas of the University. It is not wrong for the stations to have a Catholic influence but it is wrong to use that influence as a form of censorship and discrimination and as I said before I cannot condone nor support such a position. 
My resignation is effective immediately and is a full resignation from the staffs of both WVFI and WSND. Also, I will not take part in station elections nor will I train any successor chosen to take my place. John Rogers, program supervisor of WVFI, will assume the position of program director /sta­tion manager and shall carry out the duties of the office until official, constitutional elections are held for all offices at the sta­tion. It is sad that I must leave office this way; however, the policies set down by the University leave me no other choice. 
Reginald Daniel 


Quote of the day 
"To err is human; to really foul things up re­quires a computer." 
Bill Vaughan Kansas City Star 
, 
1 
, 1 1 
,
,
, 
1 
.. 
.. 
The Oscars: 


who and what will win? 
Leader for Best Picture is 'The Color Purple' 
ERIC M. BERGAMO as Detective John Book in 
features copy editor 
"Witness." There is Jack Nicholson, who already has two

What is 58-years-old, stands ap­Oscars for "One Flew Over theproximately one foot tall and is Cuckoo's Nest" and "Terms ofgold all over? 
Endearment," nominated forIt is the Oscar, the award given "Prizzi's Honor." James Garner,by the Academy of Motion Picture has his first nomination in his 30­Arts and Sciences to honor the best year career for "Murphy'sin motion pictures. 

Romance." Jon Voight, who won inThis year's presentation will take 1978 for "Coming Home," wasplace March 24 in Los Angeles. 

nominated for "Runaway Train." 

ABC will broadcast the prestigious 
event, which will be seen William Hurt, memorable for his
by 500 role in "The Big Chill," garnered amillion people both in the United States and around the world. The nominations were made public Feb. 5. The public won't know 

Trivia quiz 

who won until the night of the award ceremony, but that can't 
ERIC M. BERGAMO 

stop one from making some in­
features copy editor 

trepid predictions as to who will Here's a little quiz for those trivia buffswin. 
on campus about the Oscars.

Best Picture The favorites in this category have to be "Out of Africa" The questions and "The Color Purple." "Out of One. Four actors have won Oscars for Africa" had Meryl Streep and screenwriting. Name them and the films for nomination for "Kiss of the Spider won. Even though Goldberg right­Robert Redford, a winning com­which they won. 
ly deserves the award, my pick forTwo. Who was the first perf()rmer to win Woman." My pick for best actor isbination to say the least. "The Col­Jack Nicholson for "Prizzi's best actress is Geraldine Page for or Purple," based on the novel by consecutive Oscars? 
Honor." "The Trip to Bountiful." 
Three. Of the 57 films named Best PictureAlice Walker, was directed by Best Actress. There are movie Best Director. The big news inonly one was a western. Which one? 

Steven Spielberg and debuted Four. What Oscar-winning John Ford veterans and one newcomer vying this category was who wasn'tWhoopi Goldberg in performance for the top honor in this category. nominated. The Academy shunned film appears on the television in "E. T."? 
of great bravura. Both pictures The newcomer is Whoopi Steven Spielberg for his directionFive. What was the last black-and-white
earned II nominations, tying them film to win a Best Picture Oscar? Goldberg, who portrayed Celie in of "The Color Purple." Nominated 
for most-nominated picture. 
!'The Color Purple.". It' she wms, for this award was Hector Baben­Six. What was the first film in color to winJohn Huston's dark comedy, she will become the first black co for the controversial "Kiss of thethe Best Picture Oscar? 
"Prizzi's Honor," with Jack woman to win the Oscar in this Spider Woman," Sydney Pollack Nicholson and Kathleen Turner, Seven. This Oscar-winning actor appeared for "Out of Africa," John Hustoncategory. Veterans include Annecannot be counted out. Definite in the best film of 1977 and 1978. Name Bancroft for "Agnes of God," for "Prizzi's Honor," Peter Weir longshots are "Kiss of the Spider him and the films. 
Jessica Lange for her portrayal of for "Witness,"and Akira Kurosawa Eight. Has anyone ever directed himselfWoman" and "Witness." My pick country singer Patsy Cline in the for "Ran," a Japanese version offor best picture is "The Color Pur-to an Oscar victory? 
movie "Sweet Dreams," Meryl "King Lear." If he had beenple." · Nine. Name the only presenter to award Streep for "Out of Africa" and nominated, Spielberg would havehimself an Oscar.
Best Actor. There are five familiar Geraldine Page for "The Trip to been my choice for this award. But actors nominated for this award. Ten. Has any film produced all four acting Bountiful." Spielberg wasn't, so my pick forHarrison Ford, better known as winners? 
Page has been nominated for theHan Solo and Indiana Jones, earn­see ANSWERS, page l see OSCARS, page lOscar eight times , but has nevered his first nomination for his role 




Anne Bancroft (left), who starred in "Agnes of God," is a nomineefor best actress. 
Rae Dawn Chong and Bennet Guillory smile in a scene from "The Color Purple," which is a nominee for best picture. 
r 
r 
r r Happenings-page 2 
r 

Highlights from '85 

,. 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
~ 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
~ 
r 
~ 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r James Garner and Sally Field in a scene from "Murphy's Romance"; Garner is 
also a nominee for best actor 
Oscars  
continued from page 1  
director is John Huston for  
"Prizzi's Honor."  
r r r r  Original song.This is always a category of interest and this year is no exception. Lionel Ritchie's "Say  
r  You, Say Me" and the duet of  
r  Marilyn Martin and Phil Collins on  
r  "Separate Lives" were both  
~  nominated from the movie "White  
r  Nights." Huey Lewis and the News  
r  gained a nomination for "Power of  
Love" from the Spielberg and  
Michael J. Fox summer hit "Back  
r  to the Future." Also nominated  
r  was "Miss Celie's Blues" from "The  
r  Color Purple" and "Surprise , Sur­ 
r  prise" from "A Chorus Line."  
There is no surprise in my predic­ 
tion for this category. My pick for  
original song is "Separate Lives" by  
Marilyn Martin and Phil Collins.  
Here are my predictions for the  
rest of the categories.  
Best Supporting Actor. Don  
Ameche for "Cocoon."  
Best Supporting Actress. Oprah  
Winfrey for "The Color Purple."  
Best Foreign-Language Film.  
"The Official Story" from Argen­ 
tina.  
Best Original Screenplay.  
"Witness."  
Best Screenplay Adaptation.  
"Out of Africa."  
Cinematography. "Ran."  
Origin2l Score. Maurice Jarre  
for ''Witness."  
Art Direction. "Out of Africa."  
Costume Design "Ran."  
Visual Effects. "Young Sherlock  
Holmes."  
Makeup. "Mask."  

Until March 24, when the know if these predictions are right 
presenters ask for "The envelope, or wrong. Even so, all those who please" and announce to the world were nominated are winners even if who the winners are, no one will they lose. 
Answers to trivia quiz 
One. Orson Welles for "Citizen Six. "Gone with the Wind." Kane," John Huston for "The Seven. Christopher Walken. He Treasure of Sierra Madre," Mel appeared in "Annie Hall" in 1977 Brooks for "The Producers" and and won a Best Supporting Actor Woody Allen for "Annie Hall." award for his role in "The Deer 
Two. Luise Rainer, named Best Hunter" in 1978. Acress of 1936 for "The Great Eight. Laurence Olivier, who Ziegfeld" and 1937 for "The Good was named best actor in 1948 for Earth." "Hamlet," which he also directed. 
Three. "Cimarron." Nine. Irving Berlin, when he 
Four. "The Quiet Man," a 1951 opened the envelope in 1942 and film starring John Wayne and read the winner of best song -his Maureen O'Hara. own "White Christmas." 
Five. ''The Apartment." Ten ..No. 
Featuring: Fresh Seafood, Veal and lamb, prepared in a distinctive manner
0 
Reservations Recommended
233-8711 

112 W COLFAX -SOUTH BEND
o 
Dinner MON-SAT OPEN 5pm 


Frday, March 7, 1986 

Jack Nicholson, star of"Prizzi's Honor," is one ofthe five nominees for best actor in the Academy awards, which will take place March 24. 
... 

Director John Huston, flanked by Kathleen Turner and his daughter, Angelica Hutson, is a nominee for best director for his effort in "Prizzi's Honor." 

COMING! SPRING BREAK ~ ~~ 

/_L,~ ~.-­w DOITALLI ~ I I~Condition In Booth / \ iCTan in Beds iCRelax on Massage Bed 
Call277-7026 
J.M.S. PLAZA 
4609 Grape Road

'IM-HAWAfM 
Mishawaka 

Happenings-page 3 Friday, March 7, 1986 
'Hannah' is one of Woody Allen's finest to date 
DONALD SEYMOUR with an eccentric artist played by Max von the main themes of a decade of films, in­A kind of celebration of New York occurs in features writer Sydow. Dianne Wiest is sister Holly, an in­cluding an emphasis on women. In those a montage in the film's middle, consisting of secure, trendy former drug addict who swit­years, Allen has given a number of actresses, various shots of the city's architecture. One 
Over the last 10 years, Woody Allen has ches occupations thr~ times during the often the women in his life, some of the best must also compliment Allen's use of music proved himself to be the most gutsy, in­course of the film. roles of their careers. In "Annie Hall," that which includes jazz standards and concertos telligent and possibly the best filmmaker in Michael Caine, in one of his best roles in was Diane Keaton. Here, as in "Purple Rose by Bach,"recurrent aspects of his films. America; yet, his box-office grosses cannot years, plays Farrow's husband, an accoun­of Cairo," it's Mia Farrow. Though released too late for this year's compare to the opening weekend of a Steven tant who lusts after Hershey, his wife's Allen seems to understand women infinite­Academy· Awards, "l-Iannah" must be seen 
Spielberg blockbuster. sister. Allen himself plays a hypochondriac ly better than men. Often, the only well­as a leading competitor for next year's pro­"Annie Hall" is the lowest-grossing Best television producer who was once married to developed male characters in his films are gram. It's a crowning achievement for a true Picture winner in Oscar history. It's sad that Farrow. The cast is rounded out by Lloyd the neurotic and weak, often played by artist; is it coincidental that the film's release 
the man who best captures neurotic, urban Nolan and Maureen O'Sullivan, Farrow's himself. Another recurrent theme is New coincides with Allen's 50th birthday? I America gets the least attention. I'm afraid a real-life mother, who play a pair of quar­York, the city where Allen lives and works. highly recommend it. similar fate might await his latest film, relsome parents and has-been actors. "Hannah and Her Sisters," the culmination The film's structure is fragmentary, as 
of a of work of a true American artist. Allen cuts freely between numerous story strands. Each sequence is separated by an in­dicative and often humorous title on a black
MOVIe rev1ew~ 
screen, as if each were a chapter in a Dickens
Hannah ana Her . •!~ 
novel. The point of view changes effortlessly 
~ •rs ~~ 
and frequently from Allen to Caine to Her­
~***(outottour) I 
shey to Farrow. And each is as alive and rich 

-
as the others. 
"Hannah" synthesizes all that Woody Allen has tried to do on film since "Annie The story is as busy as life, with strands Hall," although his new movie is less weaving in and around one another psychological than the Oscar winner. It's (including Caine's fling with Hershey, larger than "Broadway Danny Rose, "less ex­Allen's medical condition and life crisis, and 
perimental than "Zelig" and more complex Wiest's failure in life), but everything than "Purple Rose of Cairo." ultimateiy arrives at Hannah. "Hannah and Her Sisters" is the story of a troubled family of actors anchored by its on­
Though she does not dominate the screen, HANNAH 
ly successful member, eldest daughter Han­Farrow's character is definitely the .central 

AND HER SISTERS
nah (Mia Farrow). Farrow is surrounded by force in the film. In a family where all seems a cast of typical but brilliantly conceived to go wrong, she is the balance, the support, Woody Allen's most recent film, "Hannah and Her Sisters," is the story ofa family Allen characters. Barbara Hershey plays 
the success. ofactors anchored by its only successful member, eldest daughter Hannah (Mia Farrow). 
sister Lea, a reformed alcoholic who lives "Hannah and Her Sisters" brings together 1986 Spring Concert Saturday and Sun­day at the Morris Civic Auditorium. "The Firebird Suite," based on a Russian
Movies The Scoop 
fairy tale of love, magic and adventure, is brought to the stage by Southold's Jill Engei-Tulchinsky, who serves as the 
• The Student Activites Board presents Starring Harvey Keital, Marcello Mastro­ballet mistress, with choreography by "Splash" tonight and tomorrow night in ianni and Jean-Louis Barrault, "La Nuit Jeanne Engel-Beaver, former assistant the Engineering Audtiorium. Daryl de Varennes" is a lavish spectacle about director of the St. Louis Metropolitan
Art 

Hannah stars as Madison, a beguilingly King Louis XVI of France. The movie Ballet. The dance features a climatic
~I
beautiful mermaid who surfaces on Man­debates the nature of history and provides dance/battle scene between a hunter hattan's shore, determined to find the a narrative of the time. Tickets to the and Katchi, an evil fairy-monster. This
• Opening tonight the creative artspaceman of her dreams. Tom Hanks is ? 7:30 and 9:30p.m. shows are $1.50. concert is predominately ballet, with
On Exhibit presents "Views," an exhibit 

would like to see Madison in an obser­• The Notre Dame department of com­4 p.m. on Saturdays and Sundays. Themunication and theater presents Shake­vation tank. Time's Richard Schickel opening will be held tonight from 7 tospeare's "The Tempest" tonight and to­called the film a "romantic comedy that 10 p.m. and refreshments will be pro­
morrow night in Washington Hall. vided.
is as salty and bracing as a plunge in the 

Robert Stormont, a professional actor • The Indiana Convention Center hosts take a plung on 'Splash."' Admission to Billy Crystal in concert Saturday night at surf. Audiences are well-advised to 
from Chicago, will play the part of • The exhibit "Artists and Models: Por­Prospero, a magical duke 'in search of traits from the Hirschhorn Museum"
the 7, 9:15 and 11:30 p.m. shows is $1.50. at the Indiana Convention Center and his brother. Tickets to "The Tempest" will close Sunday. Featuring works by Hoosier Dome. In summing up Crystal's 
• The department of communication and cost $6 for main floor, $5 for balcony and such artists as Eakins, Sargent, Benton, talent, The Los Angeles Times said, theater presents "La Nuit de Varennes" $4 for students and are available at the Giacometti and Nee!, the show may be "Crystal, perhaps like only Tomlin and 
tonight at the Annenberg Auditorium. door. viewed in the Print, Drawing and Photo­Pryor, can comically move an audience." graphy Gallery of The Snite Museum. 
Tickets are $15 and can be purchased Admission is free. 
at the Hoosier Dome box office and all 
• Continuing this week at the Moreau Ticketmaster outlets. Gallery at Saint Mary's is the exhibit • The Bengal Bouts finals are tonight "The Creative Process." The works on at 7:30p.m. in Stepan Center. Reserved display were commissioned by Fiberarts ringside seats are $3 and general admis­magazine, which sent each of the artists sion tickets are $2. Tickets may be ob­a box of eclectic materials as a starting tained at the door or at the Notre Dame point for the creation of a work of art. ticket office. The artists were free to add of manipulate the materials in any way they chose but were required to use at least one-third of them. The diverse results, along with the artists' commentary on their approaches 
L--/

M_as_s-~ 
to the creative process comprises the show. Artists represented in the exhibit 
The celebrants for Mass at Sacred Heart include Terrie Mangat, Debra Rapoport, 
Church this weekend will be: Ed Rossbach, Arturo Sandoval, Cindy Father Andre Leveille at 5 p.m. Snodgrass, Katherine Westphal and (Saturday night vigil). Rosine Yue. The art can be viewed Mon­Father James Flanigan at 9 a.m. day through Friday from 9:30 a.m. to Father Andre Leveille at 10:30 a.m. Father Andre Leveille at 12:15 p.m. 
noon and 1 to 3 p.m., and Sunday I to 3 p.m. Admission is free. 
The schedule for confessions In Sacred 'I 

Heart Church Is: Monday through Saturday at 11:15 a.m. Monday through Friday at 5 p.m. Monday through Thursday at 7 p.m. 

Saturday only 4 to 5 p.m. in the Crypt. 
• The Southold Dance Theater will pre­Vespers will be held Sundays at 7:15 sent Stravinsky's "The Firebird Suite" 
p.m. In the Lady Chapel. and a selection of original works in 
The rosary Is said dally at 6:45p.m. at modern, jazz and classical dance for its the Grotto. 
the susceptible young bachelor who falls hopelessly in love with her when she sprouts legs and follows him home. SCTV's John Candy is the hero's bro­ther, and Eugene Levy is a fanatical and unromantic marine scientist who 
"Splash" 
all major roles en pointe.
that features works of art that comment Tickets to the shows are $4 for studentson contemporary issues. Juried by Kevin and are available from the Century 
-

O'Brien, director of the Michigan City
Theater Center box office. 
Community Center for the Arts, the show can be seen throughout March during the regular gallery hours of noon until 

Happenings-page 4 Friday, March 7, 1986 

'Happy Days' diner's spirit lives in Doon's plentitude 
GREG DeFILIPPO, There are seats at ''The Doon," Although these lunch and dinner TIM HEALY, and but everyone sits in the bomhs entries are alone good reasons to RUSS HUMBERSTON (unless you're square). The menus try The Doon, its specialty is its ice features writers are already on the tables, so order­cream. The 15 different flavors of­ing is quick, efficient and, if you're fer a range from the standard 
As soon as one enters the parking with friends, can be quite com­vanilla, chocolate and strawberrylot at Bonnie Doon's, a certain 
petitive. to crummy cookie and applenostalgic feeling arises. As Emmet 

Deciding on what to order is not "something." Ice cream at The Murphy, special guest critic and 

as easy as people might think. Doon comes in sodas, shakes, con­~hauffeur, says, "It's one of a kind, Besides being famous in the area es, dishes, sundaes and hand­for its ice cream, The Doon's dipped malts. menu includes a variety of sdlld­Two of the best desserts are the 
•. :1 
-~,.~-~· ,. wiches, such as hamburgers, bacon "Tin Roof" and ''The Banana 
.. cheeseburgers, filet of fish, filet of Boat." ''The Tin Roor• is a sundae chicken, pork tenderloin and hot with two burly scoops of ice cream ham and cheese. Each of these can submerged in chocolate syrup and be ordered alone or as a platter. sprinkled with nuts. "The Banana 
a throwback to the '50s, an era that The platter includes the sandwich Boat" is a hefty banana split with I well remember." Even though and a choice of the following items: three huge scoops of ice cream, Emmet is only a junior here at french fries, lettuce and tomato, syrup and whipped cream. Even the Notre Dame, he, like everyone else, applesauce and peach slices. most strict of dieters will break remembers the prime time sitcom Needless to say, the most common down. Besides the single ice cream "Happy Days," in which Arnold's accompaniments are the peach portions, Bonnie Doon's offers Diner was the center of the social slices and applesauce. take-home sizes: pints, quarts, 1/2 scene. In many ways, Bonnie gallons and gallons of all flavors. Doone's is the Arnolds of today's There are also three or four dif~ 
'.J j ~ ,,.:.. :.: : . ultra-modern South Bend lifestyle. ferent types of salads available, as The mix of great service adds to 
G.;r-·.·-~n 'lp ;l-
This similarity is created in part well as a soup of the day. Side the positive feeling of The Doon. by the exterior appearance and order include french fries, onion During the busy dinner hour, the 
ANY SANDWICH. FRf!_. ~ 
drive-through system. This system, rings and fried mushrooms, each of four different sandwich platters much like Arnold's, is one in which which is deliciously deep-greased were delivered within 10 minutes of & DRINK COMBINA·.norv the driver orders by phone at a fried. ordering, thanks to the efficiency booth outside the restaurant and In the restaurant at the time was of the waitress, Shirley. 
(student 1.0. requir~d) f/~r:~:t5-. 5-1-86
the waitress brings the food out to a hitchhiker from San Fran­the car, the only difference being cisco/Mexico city, who had his The mix of great service, a flexi­
~--------------------------­
that the waitress wears Reeboks in­home in his duffel bag. Perhaps it ble atmosphere, and good food at stead of roller skates. Of course, is he who best expresses the feeling very affordable prices makes Bon­the more sophisticated Bonnie of satisfaction one gets from The nie Doon's a great place to stop $1.00 off any Regular Dinner Doon's patron would choose to Doorr's relationship of low prices for a meal or a snack after partying dine within, avoiding the rain. The and amount of food received, as he down hard. For those sick of the I with Drink atmosphere may best be described said, "Heyyy. This place really puts Azar's scene, head over to Bonnie I /as being loose, with a placid edge to . out." As frequent visitors to The Doon's and say hi to Shirley at I 
_,/~,,

it. The decor again makes one feel Doon, we must note that no com­52446 Dixie Way North, just three 1 \MuLent I.D. required) 
.. ·:~~-v~_./

like he or she has gone back in time plaints have ever been heard or miles north of the WNDU station ) EXPIRES 5-l-s6 30years. mape. onU.S.31. I
---·---~----------------·.-... -~-­
rF, 
,, 

. .,.. .. :
~ 
-­
·~··. 
'_-I ~-~, 
·~.: 



'' .~ ,.
···:; 
-
I 

S.A.B. presents: 
\ 
'LATE NIGHT' with '. Carol Leifer and Sean Morey 
Stepan Center Tickets available at March 8th the Ticket Stub or the door 7:00p.m. 
for$4.'!-J 
"ielYP.~o_i_n_t____________________________________________F_ri_da~y_,_M_a_rc_h_7_,1_9_86___P_ag_e_9 
LeMans tragedy spurs questions on sex policy 
The tragedy of a stillborn child in a LeMans Hall bathroom is shocking, to say the least, to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community. There is not much we can do right now about something that has already happened. But chances are that, given the 8,000 or so undergraduates attending either Saint Mary's or Notre Dame, something like this could happen again. 
Mark McLaughlin guest column 
Another story I have heard around cam­pus concerns a woman attending one of these two colleges. After suffering severe menstrual problems, almost to the point of passing out, she contacted the student health service provided by her school. She had been told before this that a hormone-based drug would help alleviate her symptoms. Upon re­questing this drug from the health service, she was informed that it was a drug sometimes used as a birth control device, and was immediately asked pointed personal questions about her recent sexual history and her feelings on birth control. She was not given the drug, and was told that if she wanted it, she would have to go off campus and get it herself. 
How much of these stories is truth and how much distorted rumor is debatable. However, the fact that most students believe that these things could take place on this campus is more important than whether they actually took place. Many students currently feel that they could not take any sexual pro­blems to anyone associated with either Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. 
This fear of openness concerning sexuality is not unfounded. The policies of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's clearly discourage such openness. Notre Dame states frankly that you will be suspended or expelled for sexual intercourse before marriage. Saint Mary's, while not administering such automatic penalties, clarly implies that sex­ual intercourse is a serious matter that will most likely be punished. Add to this such in­cidents as the controversial decision by Notre Dame to suspend two students for falling asleep on a couch, and it is no wonder that students· are apprehensive about ap­proaching their school with their problems. 
But is it the place of a Catholic institution of higher learning to enforce the doctrines of the Church with threats of expulsion and suspension? It seems to me that, if rules such as the Church's. stands on sex before mar­riage, birth control and abortion are so meritorious, they should not need such iron­clad means of enforcement. A more logical response would be to give students reliable information, and to explain the Church's stand on these issues and the reasons behind this stand in a calm, reasonable manner. 
The students attending school here are generally intelligent, responsible , moral people. If they weren't, they wouldn't be here. The students, despite their occasional over-indulgence in alcohol and their sometimes hasty actions, have serious con­victions about serious matters like abortion. They have the capacity to make decisions for themselves if given the proper information. 
"What if they make the wrong decision?" you may ask. "What if they decide to have sex before marriage anyway? What if they decide to use birth control·r" It is .not our place as fellow students to make other peo­ple's decisions for them. Nor is it the ad­ministration's place to expel them for mak­ing these decisions. 
If a student goes to the student health ser­vice and asks for information about sexual 


P.O.BoxQ 

Notre Dame uncritical toward minority policy 
Dear Editor: 
There is a certain irony in learning that the administration banned a public service an­nouncement by a homosexual organization on the same day that two campus groups an­nounced the start of ''minority awareness week." Does Notre Dame really mean to sug­gest that some minorities are more legitimate than others? In what conceivable way does tolerance towards any aggrieved minority run "counter to a lot of things that a Catholic university should stand for," as the ad­ministration claims? 
Vito Gagliardi, executive news director of the Notre Dame radio stations, concedes that the school "only banned the announcement on the FM station (WSND-FM) because that's the only station that (Notre Dame) was getting complaints on." 
What sort of moral leadership is this by a university which claims to point the way in displaying tolerance towards minorities.? 
There is already a deplorable amount of homophobia on this campus. It emerges in ways which would never be tolerated if the prejudice were transformed into racial or ethnic slurs. If Notre Dame seriously hopes ''to achieve the common goal of unification" among its residents, then let it begin by rescinding the ban on a public service an­nouncement by Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame/Saint Mary's College. 
Rev. Isaac McDaniel Brownson Hall 
Freeby's cheap shot challenged 
Dear Editor: 
We would like to voice our anger and displeasure with Chuck Freeby's cheap shot at Steve Slaughter (Observer, March 3). In­ferring that Slaughter was better suited as a "Bengal Bouts poster child" as opposed to a boxer was classless and unwarranted. Bengal Bouts boxers, including Slaughter, spent two months in training and deserve our respect and admiration for giving of themselves to help those less fortunate. If the obviously athletically-inclined Freeby would like to step into the ring with Slaughter, Slaughter is more than willing to oblige him, and we'll all bet the farm on Slaughter. 
Tom Murphy Tim Condon BrianRady Ken Twanski Mark Hogle LarryDube Steve Elder John Brisson Morrissey Hall 

The Pentagon funding is extremely dangerous 
Dear Editor: 
Universities looking for research funds are finding the Pentagon offers ''the only game in town." According to a recent report by the Council on Economic Priorities, funds ear­marked for the Strategic Defense Initiative ''innovative" research, awarded primarily to universities, will quadruple in fiscal year 1986 to $100 million. Pentagon funding for defense projects at universities has increased 89 percent in the last five years. Today, in­credibly, this constitutes 16 percent of all federally funded university research -the same share received by universities during the height ofthe Vietnam War. 
The Massachusetts Institute of Technology and its off-campus Lincoln Laboratories, for example, in 1985 received a whopping 59 percent of all its research funds from the Department of Defense, at least one fifth of which went to SDI. Across the nation, some 43 other schools have also received Star Wars contracts. Such a rapid increase shows that universities have become the next targeted constituency, after the military industries, for the SDI research pork barrel. 
What has happened to basic research? It is expected to grow only 1 percent this year, while military research and development is expected to increase 21 percent. Though classified research has been restricted on most major campuses since the '60s, much of the final stage SDI research will fall into this classified category. 
What this means is that universities, tradi­tionally a major source of unbiased scientific research, are becoming more and ·more dependent on the Department of Defense. The Pentagon is supplying more than half of all federal funds for mathematics and com­puter sciences, effectively putting it in charge of those disciplines which are key in the development of high technology. Given the Pentagon's spotty record on quality and cost control, this will ultimately hurt U.S. technological growth and competitiveness. 
More than 2,600 faculty members have already signed a petition calling the Star Wars project "deeply misguided and dangerous," including Hans Bethe of Cornell and Philip Morrison of MIT. Opposition to the ''invasion of academia" by the Pentagon is growing nationwide. Students, faculty and the public everywhere should join in making problems, or even if he or she asks for birth control or an abortion, that student should not be interrogated as to his or her beliefs. People do not make these kinds of decisions without some forethought. If we have pro­vided all the informa;ion we have, and have argued our case for the Church's stand, that is all we can do. It is all we should do. 
Jesus Christ did not spend His preciously short time here on earth preaching the evils of contraception or the merits of chastity. The point of His preaching was that we should love our fellow man. If we castigate our students and throw them out of the com­munity because they have made decisions contrary to those of the Catholic Church, are we demonstrating love? Our beliefs should be strong enough that they do not need to be forced onto others. 
And perhaps if we are not so quick to close out, to exclude, there would be less babies in the trash cans of this world. 
Mark McLaughlin is a sophomore aerospace and psychology major at Notre Dame. 
their views heard on this important issue. 
Rosy Nimroody 
Omission at JPW leaves out contribution 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in reference to an unfortunate mistake which occurred during Junior Parents' Weekend. At the brunch Sunday morning, Dan Bender, the chairman, forgot to mention one name while he was recogniz­ing the commissioners for JPW. The name is inadvertently left out was that of Race Thoman. I felt her efforts and hard work as Hotel Commissioner /Executive Reception Commissioner should be accounted for among the others recognized. The weekend was a great success and all who aided in its planning, thank you for a job well done. 
Katie Brown Holy Cross Hall 


Editorial Board Operations Board 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Bu6ineas Man&Qer ...................... David Stephenitct1 Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamihon Controller ............................. William J. Highducheck Nflwa Eo/tor .......•..............................•.•.... Frank Upo Adverti6ing Manager .............................. Jim Hagan 
The Observer 11 the independent newsp~er published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCullougl Adveni6ing Manager ...............•.... Anne M. Culligan Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the Saint Mary·s Executive Editor ........ Thereu Guarino Systems Manager ......................... Mark B. Johnson adminiStration of either inetiMion. The news ia reponed u accurately and objectively aa pos­
Sporta Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb Production Manager .....................•. John A. Mennell Sible. Unsigned editonals represent the op1n1on of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy Photography Manager ........... Tripp Baltz tanea, letters and the I~ Column present the views of their authors. Column space is Viewpoint Editor............................ . .... Joe Murphy available to all members of the community and the free elCpfesaion of varying opinions on 
Copy Chief ........................•................. Philip H. Wr:Af. 
campus. through letters. ia encouraged. Founded November 3, 1966 
The Observer Friday, March 7, 1986 -page 10 
Irish 
continuedfrompage 16 
with 16 points, raising her career point total to 1,512. Sophomore guard Mary Gavin chipped in with 14 points, five assists, and four steals. 
"Mary Gavin had a career night tonight," said DiStanislao of the sophomore who tied her career for points. "She did everything we needed. She scored, rebounded, 
and  had  an  outstanding  floor  
game."  
Other Irish  players  in double  

figures included Sandy Botham 





Classifieds 
with 13 points, Diondra Toney with 12 points, and Heidi Bunek with ll points. 
Notre Dame had a 30-20 halftime lead, and came out strong in the se­cond half to take a 46-24 lead with 15:33left to play. But Xavier made ~_charge at that point, scoring the 

NOTICES 
Pandora's Books wants to buy and trade bOOks. Sell your paperbacks for cash or trade for 40: Pandora's Books 937 South Bend Ave. 233-2342. 
Professional word processing and typing. Convenient location 01,1 N. Ironwood. Call277_.220. 
Wordprocesslng-Typlng 272-8827 
Need ride to WASHINGTON D.C. for Spring Break. Will share usual. Call Lorrl at 284·5315 
HAPPY HOUR AT PANDORA'S BOOKS EVERY FRIDAY, :HI PM, 50 PERCENT OFF USED BOOKS AND 20 PERCENT OFF NEW BOOKS. PAN· DORA'S BOOKS 937 SO. BEND AVE. 232-2342. 
Typing available 287-<4082 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8997 
BUSINESS EXPRESS, INC. Wordproceaalng and typing 272-8827 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7008. 
PRO-TYPE Resumes, law papers, dissertations, student papers. 277· 
5833. 
ATIN: STUDENTS Dolores Francis typing service phone number change 277-8131 
LOST/FOUND 
Give us back the tapes you stole from our party OC. We are narrowing our suspects and If we don't have them back by the time we find out exactly whoareare-PAINI 
FOUND One pearl necklace outside of LaFor­tune. Near Huddle on or abOut January 28. Call 1151 and ask for 
Alan to claim. 
HELP! I LOST MY CAR KEYS FRIDAY NIGHT SOMEWHERE AROUND ST. LOUIS AVE. THEY WERE ON A LARGE STRAWBERRY KEYCHAIN ALONG WITH LOTS OF OTHER IM· PORTANT KEYS. IF YOU FOUND THEM PLEASE CALL JENNIFER AT 272·4287. 
found: Women's black Timex watch outside of the Rock on 2125. To claim, call4241. 
LOST: BLACK AND GOLD STRIPED WATCH AROUND THE BUSINESS BUILDING OR ON THE PATH TO ST. MICHAEL'S LAUNDRY LOST LAST TUESDAY. PLEASE CONTACT TONY AT 1462. REWARDS$. 
LOST: Beige sports jacket at Laughlin Auditorium at S.M.C. downstairs first week of Feb. Dear lady who called me before, please call me again. Great sentimental value. Thank you for your patience. The tag reads "G. Cannon 40169" Please call at 283-3244 
OK. WHOEVER STOLE MY GREY OVERCOAT FROM 801 ST. LOUIS ON 2114 I WANT IT BACK; SPRING ISN'T HERE YET AND I'M KIND OF COLO! A REWARD IS OFFERED. CALL BRIAN AT 2209. 
LOST: Pair of blue leather gloves. If you remember finding a pair of gloves on Fri. Feb. 14, or around then, (probably In Comp/Math 300, N.S.H. 123 O'Shag 105A, or Eng. Aud.) please call Frank x1578. 
AI the B.P. SYR (2115) I picked up the wrong Sport Coat. Hopefully that per­eon also has picked up mine, It waa a tweed Hunting Horn -almllar to the one that I picked up.' If you are lOOk· lng for your coat or heva mine pleasa call Kevin at 283-2113. 
TAKEN FROM SOUTH DINING HALL ... MEN'S BLUE GORETEX GLOVES . .. PLEASE RETURN TO 324 DILLON, LOST AND FOUND, OR CALL BILL AT 1801. THANKS. 
. HELPIII I LOST MY CLASS RING. THE RING IS GOLD WITH AN AQUA STONE AND BEARS THE INITIALS "TAO '66." I BELIEVE THE RING WAS LOST IN STEPAN CHEMISTRY HALL AROUND 2-10. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL TOM AT 3556 REWARD REWARD REWARD. 
Lost: one RED TWO-WHEELED CART. Last left In lront of Nleuwland Science on Thursday afternoon February 28. If found please contact Amy at 239-6671. ·II would be very much appreciated and no questions 
will be asked. 
LOST: woman's Timex quartz watch with a while band. If you've found It please call Julie at 4570. 
LOST GIRL'S GLASSES SOMEWHERE AT SMC. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 284-4128. REWARD. 
LOST: Brown Oonnegal tweed hat probably left In O'Shag on Feb. 24. Sentimental value. REWARD. Call 
3633. 
FOUND: Bracelet In NO bus shelter on Feb. 27. Call Maureen at 288-5073 to Identify. 
LOST: Beige sweatpants w/front pockets. Left In ACC. If found, please call Chris 283-1031. 
LOST: CAR KEYS AT PARTY ON ED· DY ST. SATURDAY. CALL AT 3444 IF YOU HAVE INFORMATION. 
FOR RENT 
FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR. 287-6389. 
6 BDRM HOME. NEAR CAMPUS. 272· 
6306. 
GRAD ROOM SIOOIMO 277·2045 
FOR SALE 
... AMiGACOM'Plii'i:ilsvsTEM 
512 KB Expandable to 8.5 MB. Superb color graphics with over 4,000 colors. Special 25 percenl discount for NO 
students and faculty. 
BURKAT COMPUTER CENTER 
287·3344 

Yamaha 650. Excel. Cond. Best offer over $1000. 284-5149. Leave name and phone no. 
5 bedroom house. Fully furnished. All appliances & furniture included. Great Investment. Nice neighborhood. 4 miles from NO. $22,000. Call evenings 288-3109. 
ACT NOW! DISKETTES Bulk 5-1/4" DS/DD. 49 cents each. Lots of 50. These are not 2nds. MONEY BACK GUARANTEE. No questions asked. Caii1-8CJ0.834.3478, 9-9 EST M·F, 10-6 Sat. Offer expires 3­31-88. 
MACINTOSH FOR SALE 
GREAT DEAL !I 
CALL JIM 1097 
TICKETS 

HELP!! II need Dayton tickets! 
Student or GA. Please call 
Terry at 2964. 
NEED B-BALL TIX for DAYTON ­GA'S or STUDENT -Call Joarile x2926 
MY SISTER WILL KILL ME IF I DON'T GET II DAYTON GA'S OR STUDENT TIXS. HELP ME LIVE A LONG LIFE! ANNE 284-5048. 
I NEED OAYTON TIX. OOUG-2467 
PLEASE SELL ME DAYTON TIX. CALL JANET x4673 
MASOCHISTIC FRIENS from DAYTON want to see their team BEATEN! PLEASE sail me your ticket to help fulfill their alck fantasy. eall CHRIS (3185) Need DAYTON GA's. Call Bill at 1775 
Need 4tlx for Dayton: 239-7204 or 233­3412. 
NEEDED-DAYTON TIX No price too great! Stud or GA acceptable Call LOU at 288-8410 and rob me of my vast riches. 
Need Dayton tix. $$$ Call Ralph at 277.{J1771s that good enough, Ralph? 
Neeo· oAvroN ·-r~x:: sriio·oR' ·<i.'A.' 
CHRI$-1135 
································ 
Need 2-4 GA's for Dayton game. Call Helen at 3824. 
HELP! I NEED THREE TIX FOR THE DAYTON GAME (STUDENT OR GA). PLEASE CALL MEG AT 2913. THANKS!!! P.S. THEY DON'T NEED TO BE TOGETHER. 
NEED 1DAYTON STUDENT TICKET BRIAN 266-5270 
HEYI I really need 2 Dayton tix. STUD or GA. Call The Urga · 1062. 
Need 2 tix(student or G.A.) for Dayton game. call Paul3510 
TWO ROUND TRIP TICKETS ­good for travel ANYWHERE IN THE UNITED STATES. Best offer, call Ted 1874. 
NI:Eti DAYTON GA'S or STUDENT TIX·CALL RICK AT 1828 
Ne·Eo ·oAvroN·,:,x· oe·sPeRATELv!, 
BIG$$$ CALL JOE, 272-4820 
I NEED DAYTON TIX. 272-6306. 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER lo LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
FREE COUPONS In the yellow pages of the Campus Telephone Directory. Use them today! 
I NEED 1 DAYTON TIX-STUO OR GA. CALL DOC x3255 
NEED DAYTON GA ·BEN 2275 
WANTED 
cAMP. coui·isiLciRs.Pcisti-ioj..j '..\i' 
YMCA STORER CAMPS ON STONY LAKE NEAR JACKSON, MICHIGAN. CO-ED, AGES 7-17, UNIQUE PRO· GRAMS: HORSES, AQUATICS, SAIL· lNG, WILDERNESS ADVENTURE, IN· TERNATIONAL EMPHASIS. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CON­TACT: Ann Wiedemann PHONE: 283· 
2805. 
GOVERNMENT JOBS. $16,040-$59,230/yr. Now hiring. Calli· 805-887-6000 Ext. R-9834 for current 
federal list. 
·························· 
WANTED: Ride to general Clnci~~~il area. Will pay $$. Call Maureen at 4349 after 7 p.m. 
Any men who would like to spend Spring Break living In a Benedictine monastery In Illinois, contact Br. Mark OSB, 239-6187. 
2 sun-lovers DESPERATELY need ride to Florida for break! Will share expenses. call 283-4684 ASAP! 
CASH AND CREDIT FOR USED PAPERBACKS AND TEXTS. PAN· DORA'S BOOKS 937 SO. BEND AVE. 233-2342. 
RIDE OFFERED TO MPLS./ST. PAUL, SPRING BREAK MICHELE 2885 
LAWN MAINTENANCE AND LAND· SCAPE HELP WANTED. FULL OR PART TIME. MALE OR FEMALE. APP· LY IN PERSON AT ADAMS ROAD DEVELOPMENT CORP. MAINTENANCE CENTER, 51454 GUMWOOD ROAD. 
Studenta to sail Photo Club bOOks. All Kodak products used for process­Ing. Excellent Income. Call864-3250. 
Wanted: Ride to/from Baltimore leav· lng 3/21, 22. Call Anne at 1320 till tam 

next 14 points to close the gap to eisht points. 
The Irish put the game away by outscoring the Lady Musketeers, 30-7, over the final nine minutes. 
"I think we might have been looking past Xavier to Saturday's game with Dayton," said DiStanislao. "And that could have been a big mistake. It's an old cliche, but you have to win 'em one at a time. Now it's time to get ready for Dayton." 

lht' (Jhst~n·~·r :\o1n: I>J.nu· otfilt' ltH.Jit:d on lhl· 1111n.l n,,ur ut I.JioriUfh: ~tullt·nt < t·ntt·r. Jll t'Pt' ll.l,!oollit·tl Jth t:rll!'>lll~ Irum') J m unlll J p m \1ontiJ\ throu~h I ndJ\ 1ht• t )hst•rt·er ~J.IIlt \1Jn ·.., utfu.t· lul Jtcd Ill\ t lw thud flour ul ll~l(l(~r Collt'l(t' < l'llln ~<<<'P'' <I~'" lin!' lrum I 2 ~~~ p m un11l ~ p m \Inn dJ\ thou~h I rtdJ\ l>t'Jtlhnt· lor IH''l d.l\ t.l ........ ,fi-.·d.. ,... ~ rIll \II t.IJ!oo,ttit·t..h 11111'1 ht· prt·p.mL t·uhn on pn,on or IH m.ul < h~r):t· '' I II <t'llh pn II\,. , har~' lc:r-.. t:r dJ~ 
PERSONALS 
ALASKAN OPPORTUNITIES, thousands of summer Jobs are available, earn SS,000-$30,000, pam­phlet tells you how. Send $5 to AK OPP., P.O. Box 2451, SLC, UT lot110. 
Dance and Party with LAKE EFFECT at CHEERS: Th, Frl, Sat. 
Hoop Hysteria shirts still available!!! All sizes. Stop by Room 221 Stanford or call 207812089 
ST. PATS PARTY AT TIVOLI'S for the UNITED WAY! $.50 GREEN DRAFT BEER $1.25 ALL MIXED DRINKS $1.00 SHOTS OF SCHNAPPS FREE IRISH BUFFET! $5.00 TICKETS ON SALE NOW 
Thank You St. Jude for all your help! Please continue to help me! 
Hungry? Call YELLOW SUBMARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery hours: 5pm­12am Monday-Thursdday; 5pm-2am Friday; 3pm-1 am Saturday; 4pm­10pm Sunday. 
.... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE! 

FOR SALE: 1 WAY AIRLINE TICKET FROM CHICAGO TO PITISBURGH OR LATROBE LEAVING 3-21 (SPR· lNG BREAK(. CALL LIZ AT 284·5209. 
M.H.B.T.O. -MJ 
CARE CENTER PHONATHON 
VOLUNTEERS! OONT FORGET: PARTY THIS SAT. MARCH 8, K of C Hall, 8:00p.m. MOVIES, REFRESHMENTS, MUSIC lo GREAT TIMES, TO SAY THANKS FOR ALL YOUR HELP 
IRISH GARDENS IS NOW ACCEP­TING APPLICATIONS FOR 1966-87 MANAGEMENT APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT IRISH GARDENS AND ARE DUE MARCH 10 
SPEND THE SUMMER AND/OR 1966· 87 SCHOOL YEAR IN SUNNY SPAIN. Quality Instruction at Economy Prices: Business Administration, Hispanic Studies, Arts and Sciences. GRADUATE COURCES IN HISPANIC STUDIES offered In July. Oustanding Summer School. Contact: Admis­sions, St. Louis University, 221 North Grand Boulevard, St. Louis, MO 83103. Toll-free telephone: 1.8Q0.325­
6666. 

THANK YOU SO MUCH ST JUDE! 
REMEMBER THESE TIMES AND FRIENDS IN A WILD, FUN, OR SERIOUS PHOTO OF YOU AND YOUR FRIENDS, ROOMMATES, LOVER. (B & W OR COLOR) CALL STEVEAT2459 FOR INFO. 
You have red hair, brown eyes and wear a NO wrestling sweatshirt. A few weeks ago you were on crutches and now I see you walking around In a spllnt...but I'm too shy to say hello. Are you? 
TotheLBE:, 

I read a paper the other day which made me feel great (thanks Max) and I realized just how lucky I am. Thanks guys. 
luv, the geologist 
BOSTON BOUND FOR SPRING BREAK 
NEED A RIDE? OR GOING THRU ALBANY, SYRACUSE, ROCHESTER, BUFFALO OR ERIE? PLEASE JOIN TWO IN· TERESTING OOMERS ON THEIR WAY TO Harvard. We'll leave Fri March 21. PLEASE call3661 soon. 
NEED A RIDE LEAVING WASH., D.C, MARCH m Join two domera on their way back from SPRING BREAK. PLEASE CALL 3181. 
Two beautiful girls In a lincoln towncar looking for RIDERS to the Fort Lauderdale area for Spring Break. Call Jean 284-4379. 
The Ohio State University welcomes Anne E. Karnatz-English Extraor­dlnalre. CONGRATULATIONS ANNO M. 
AL, EOA, MARCIA, AND CHIPPER: I'M MISSING YOU GUYS BIG TIME! MJ 
Happy Birthday (belatedly), Kristen. PFFT! 
TRACK & FIELD Unlv. of Notre Dame Track & Field Team T-Shlrts and Grey Sweat Tops for Sale. A very LIMITED Supply. Perfect for Spring Break. Prices:$8 for T-Shlrts and $15 for Sweat Tops. Call Tom for Information 277-7006 or 239-7634. 
THE BOSTON COLLEGE vs SMC CONNECTION Kenny and Mary (Snookems and Gooey Pie), What do you get when you cross them? A no­good preppy, talkative, unbearalbe piece of living flesh. All talk and no sex....typical !! ! 
WE HAVE PRINCE ADAM!! HA! HA! 
IN THE MOOD DATE: March 8 TIME:9pm-12am 
PLACE: North Dining Hall Big Band Entertainment $2 per person/$3 per couple Semiformal attire requested 
d.c. spring break bus Cost $70, Signups Mon. 3/10 from 6-7 pm in LaFortune lobby. ?'s call Kevin Virostek al1062 
PREGNANT? 
NEED HELP? 
Call 234·0363. 24·hr. hotline, 
counseling & free pregnancy tests. 
WOMEN'S CARE CENTER 
BAHAMAS5 
man: "Excuse me son, but you just 
can't stand there." 
Bill: (sees Dorothy, moves) 
man: (grins) "Thanks!" 
Have a super Birthday Wilson W.!! Love the Lisa's 
CREPERIE! CREPERIE! COME TO THE FRENCH CLUB'S CREPERIE TONITE IN THE CSC FROM 8 to 11. ASSORTED CREPES AND BOISSONS. 
RIDE OFFERED TO MARQUETIE U! Leave Sat-am; Return Sun-am Contact Lou at 1699 
Hide the Children, MARD II IS COM· lNG I Carrie, did you see Jim Morrison Saturday Night? He was sitting right next to John Lennon ... Nice shoes Sarah, did you paint them yourself? More Important than SALT II, Bigger than Big Time Wrestling! Tonight In Carrie's room (if she can find it) The battle of words, dirt and more dirt. It's gonna get ugly ladies. (Saran wrap is optional). MARD Ills HERE!!!!!! 
Girls beware, Jamaal Is on the loose! Happy 19! 
WELCOME TO THE BIG NO, AN· DREA!!!! 
0 plus G 0 plus G 0 plus G 0 plus G May it forever be ... 
CONGRATULATIONS SUSAN A. 
Yale Bound 
Yale Bound 
Yale Bound 
A certain "Yale Man"??????? Ia quite 
taken by you. 
AND SHE SAID, 
"I've never fooled around on a .. 
Then again, I've never fooled around." 
Can there be truth to this claim? But 
is It actually relevant . . ., 'cause 
"We're all gonna die! II"(Oh, and by 
the by) NOBODY'S as hot as you, 
baby. HAVE A HAPPY!! P.S. We'll 
shee ya In Chicago. 
NOTRE DAME ARE YOU READY FOR ST. PATRICK'S DAY? THE ST. PATRICK'S DAY WEEKEND CELEBRATION IS COMING MARCH 14-17. GO IRISH!! II 
STACY, THANKS FOR COMING UP THIS WEEKEND. YOU ARE THE MOST BEAUTIFUL, KINDEST, WARMEST AND SWEETEST GIRL THE WORLD HAS EVER SEEN. I LOVE YOU SO VERY MUCH Ill ALWAYS WITH LOVE, LOU MOM&DAO TKA 
LOVE,YA, SON 
CHRIS BOWLER, MELISSA WARNKE and ANN KALTENBACH Once again . .. above and beyond the call of duty. Don't forget: the third time's a charm. THANKS AGAIN, the Wednesday night (and Thursday morning) Asst. News Editor 
And a special thanks to all those hard-working emergency typists . we couldn't have done it without you. 
the Wed. ANE 
VOl MCGRAW! I THOUGHT YOU MIGHT LIKE A PERSONAL OF YOUR OWN! THANKS FOR THE GREAT YEAR. LOVE, BILL 
Riders needed to Daytona during Spr­ing Break. Just gas$$. Call Tim 2356 or Phil2255. 
We need a couple of RIDERS to go in on a rent-a·car one way to Fort Meyers, Florida. Leaving March 20 pm ... Call Anne 2855 or Heather 2622 .. Only $79 rental charge if we make it in 24 hours!! 
KWB (SPILL TY) BET YOU THOUGHT I FORGOT ABOUT THE SCREWDRIVER YOU TIPPED. THE OJ STAYS ON MY SIDE TONITE! GOB MIAMI DOLPHINS NO.1 
Speed. You're not schleeping! You're 21! Have a "BAD" day, Race. In the name of love· Preg, Katie· May, Turph & Face. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, SUE I heard a scary rumor that the Regina lounge is staying open 24 HOURS in honor of march 9th. Have fun in the bright lights of the windy city this weekend. I'll say hi to Damon Good· win for you. I'll miss you at the SYR. How about Mass Sunday with that Paul Simon priest???? 
Signed 
The Soldier of Love 
(yeah ....) 
KRISTIN ANDERS Oino the Iguana and your Farley friends wish you happy Birthday! 
So long and thanks for all the fish, St. Jude! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY WILSON WALTER (Yes, Wilson is his first name!) Glad to know you, bud. Love ya lots, Maria 
M.H.B.T.O...MJ 
LOST! ONE PSYCHAOELIC COL· ORED BUS. REWARD-TIX TO THE GIG PLUS A HOT DATE WITH REUBAN. IF FOUND CONTACT LAURIE OR DANNY ON 2 SOUTH, BUT OON'TTELL MOM! 
TO MARCIA THE TRAVELING WONDER: MAY FLORIDA GET MEGA RAINFALL! HAVE A MEDIOCRE BREAK! I LOVE YOU! --MJ (YOUR ALL-TIME FAVORITE SISTER AND INTELLECTUAL IDOL) -P.S. MOM LIKES ME BETIER! 
"our care should not be so much to live long, as to live WELL." SENECA I "TO LIVE LONG, IT IS NECESSARY TO LIVE SLOWLY." CICERO I "MEOW! GOOD-BYE CRUEL WORLD! MEOW!" OESPERATA 
To: My Dearest Friend ....A thought for the day: "A soulmate Is someone who has locks that fit our keys, and keys to fit our locks. When we feel safe enough to open the locks, our truest selves step out and we can be completely and honestly who we are; we can be loved for who we are and not for who we're pretending to be. Each unveils the best part of the other. No matter what else goes wrong around us, with that one per­son we're safe. Our soulmate Is so­meone who shares our deepest long­Ings, our sense of direction. Our soulmate Is the one who makes life come to life." The Bridge Across Forever As always, MJ 

I 
I 
I 

Observer Friday, March 7, I986 -page II 
Lewis, B.P. to square off foriHcrown 
By SHAWN BUSHWAY 
Sports Writer 
Women's interhall basketball playoff action heated up Wednes­day night as Breen-Phillips remain­ed undefeated with a close 44-38 victory over a tough Farley squad. 
Breen-Phillips was led by Dava Newman's 14 points and Ann Curoe's 15 points. Jane Weldon led a balanced Farley attack with 12 points. The game was characterized by dogged defense on both sides and tough physical play inside. 
The other game Wednesday night had third-place Lewis upsetting second-place Walsh Hall by the score of 35-26. Mary Ellen Mileski led Walsh with a total of eight points while Lewis had several players contributing a few baskets each. 
Sunday night at 7 in the ACC pit Breen-Phillips will jump off against Lewis in the championship game. This game will serve as a rematch of the first game of the year for both teams. Breen-Phillips won that game but the outcome of this game is very much in doubt because of the fact that each team has had 10 games and 2 months to learn how to work together. 
All in all, it looks like the ACC pit is the place to be at 7 on Sunday night for some fast-paced, exciting women's basketball. 

PREPARE FOR: 
LSAT 
• 
TEST N TAPE • LIBRARY 

• 
REiNFORCEMENT TEST 

• 
HOMESTUOY PACKET 


1717 E. South Bend Ave South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 272-4135 
Summer or Fall1986 Summer1987 
WASHINGTON OR LONDON INTERNSHIPS 
SUMMER SESSION ONLY at Wad ham College of the University of 
OXFORD 
Accredited courses in government, economics, journalism and pre­law by an outstanding faculty. 
Full Academic Year Programs at the London School of Economics, St. Andrews Universities, for Qualified Juniors and Seniors. 
All credits transferred through Hampden-Sydney College, Virginia (Founded in 1776) 
Inquiries to: Mrs. Janet Kollek, J.D. Admissions Director The Washington International Studies Center 212-724-0804 or 0136 (EO!AA) 
1 
j j 
l 
j j j j j j j j j j 
l 
j j j j I 
j j j j 
I 
j j j 
J J 
j j I 
j 
J 
~ 
The Nazz Competition is coming ••• 
A chance for student bands and musicians to compete for fame and recognition. 
On Friday, April 4th you will compete for: 
*CASH PRIZES! 
* A postion in the Saturday showcase performance (April 5th) *A chance to play with 
MAX WEINBERG, BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN'S DRUMMER! 
Registration is at the front desk of the Student Government Offices from March 11 to March 16. 
QUESTIONS? Call Liz 283-2985 
Bruce Springsteen's Drummer MAX WEINBERG 
will soon be at Notre Dame. 

Max will.first show a documentary .film ofthe Born in the U.S.A. tour (made by 
N.F.L. Films). He will then talk about his experiences with Bruce on the road. And .finally, Max Weinberger will jam with the .finest ofNotre Dame's musicians chosen from the students at the Nazz competition. 
MAX is coming Aprill2. 

Sponsored by the Student Activities Board 
Beat thy roommate. 
nv: best time to get ahead in the business flannel suit ''ith tasseled loafers:· world is not when rou get into the business world. ~lacintosh helps student<~ work smarter. 
Its when \'OU get into school. quicker and more creatively. And the heauty of it Enter. the ~lacintoslt all is. you don't have to know diddley about \\'ith pro~-,'fams like ~licrosoft: Excel and computers to use one. 
,Jazz'" !Tom !JlnJS: it let'> \'CIU put together forec:L'It\ Just don't let \'OUr roommate. the '­marketing plans. !lnancial statements. costing marketing \\~Z. see this ad. • and C:L'Ih flow f:L'>ter than \'OU can say "~·ey At least not until afterYou !,'faduate. ~ 
C I'"~ 'It,.., 1••Hpur...r lu. \!~'·•· ,tlllllh· ~~ll1· luJ."' .rn· 1\'l!"'lrl\'t: tr.llk'lll.lrl..~ ul.\j'l~' 1 ntnllllll·r Ilk \l.iflllll"h 1~ :1 rr.t,-.m.ul. nl \khllrr-h l.;dlllr.nu!\ Inc .uKII' i'll'lll~ U!it1l \\llh IL' t'\J'If't'!r,.~ pt'f'l111!1.'1t"1 \h'f'INth ''a l'\1!1\tt1\11lf,tlk'lll.tr~ ul \hfnNm 1tJrllCII",IItoll I.V.I :11111 11111" an·tr;hlt'lll;trl..,ui!Hm~ llt'\dc~lll'll'IIIIA"llllf':lllllll 
::::: -····· • &.>It;
=: • 
Cos~ (t~ s..~~ 
'J.4()(1 .• 
$:1(1() 
$0 1';IQ(> 1 9A7 I qaf.: 
,...,. 


For further Information, Inquire at
University Of Notre Dame faculty, staff and students 
The Computing Center
can buy Macintosh comuters at discounted prices 
Room 25 9:00-5:00 Monday -Friday
from the Notre Dame computer store 
Phone 239-74n 

-~---------~------------------------­
The Observer Friday, March 7, 1986-page 12 

ND women looking for full sweep in home weekend tournament 
By KATHLEEN McKERNAN 
Sports Writer 
"We want to come out of this match 3-0," women's tennis coach Michele Gelfman said of her team's attitude toward today's and tomor­row's Notre Dame Quadrangular. "We've been working fairly specifically this week to attain that 
,~~;oal." 
Coming off a tough 5-4 loss last weekend at Purdue, the Irish are looking to redeem themselves through the three matches against Bradley, Akron, and Saint Mary's. Those teams will offer a wide range of competition for Notre Dame this weekend at the Courtney Courts of the South Bend Racket Club. 
"Bradley is rather strong," Gelfman said. "Akron, I don't know much about, but we'll see." 
Notre Dame plays Saint Mary's every year, last year defeating the Belles, 9-0. 
For today's match against Bradley at 3 p.m., senior Susie Panther, who was last year's most valuable player, will lead off for the Irish. 
Junior Mary Colligan and sophomore Michelle Dasso will follow Panther in the second-and third-flight matches. Rounding out the last three spots for Notre Dame 
Hockey team to end season in Alabama 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team closes out its 1985-86 campaign this weekend when it takes part in a four-team tournament at Alabama­Huntsville. In the opening round tonight, the Irish (12-19-1) will face the host Chargers, while the Royal Military College of Canada will take on North Dakota State. 
The Irish originally were slated to play a two-game series with Huntsville, but their hosts decided to close out the season with the tourney. 
Notre Dame swept the Chargers at the ACC in December by scores of 5-3 and 10-7, and last weekend they swept N.D. State. If Royal Military Academy is of the same calibre of those teams, the Irish could come home with a pair of vic­tories and a title to close out the year. 
"I expect RMC to be of the same type as the other teams," says Notre Dame head coach Lefty Smith. "It'll be a very close field of teams. Everyone is capable of knocking each other off." 
Simth enters this weekend's ac­tion with a career record on 298­299-30. He should reach a milestone this weekend, good or bad. But he says he doesn't put too much stock in the numbers. 
"To be frank, I wasn't even aware of it," said Smith. "I've been at this business for 30 plus years, and I just try to get the best I can out of my players. Sometimes you get more satisfaction out of a team that doesn't have a good season if they just go out and use their talent and play hard." 
Smith's squad, wracked by in­juries all season, will still be without the services of Frank O'Brien, John Nickodemus and Rich Sobilo. 
are Izzy O'Brien and Schmidt, the "If I find out that Akron is weak, 
two winners in singles last weekend I'd like to give some of the other in West Lafayette, Ind. girls a chance to play," Gelfman said. "Along with Natalie, who had 

''Tammy has been playing very a chance to play last weekend, we well," Gelfman said. "lzzy, our No. 
have another freshman walk-on in 4 player, has also done well." 
Julie Sullivan. Junior Carol Rader will also be playing this year." 
The No. 1 doubles team of Pan­ther and Dasso earned a victory The loss at Purdue was a disap­point for the Irish last week and pointing one for the team, especial­
ly since last year, the Irish 

dominated Purdue 8-1. 
''We came off a tough loss at Purdue," she said. "I feel that all 
the girls have been working very hard. I could go on and on with ex­cuses about the loss -we didn't have Jo Anne (Biafore, who will return to the lineup today), it was a different surface, we weren't on our 




home courts -but it comes down ~=====;==================~·
to one basic fact. r 
"We can give but cMt. !:0 ~ !Bittl'uia.y Pa.tty 
all excuses when you really get down to it there 

cSa.tu.tday j.ta.ttlnfj a.t 10:30
are only two reasons you lose: either you get beat by a better player, or you beat yourself. I'd say 
will lead off the doubles competi­

we gave it our best shot." Corru. afdn.a.te eM't. !b ·~ tion today. Also competing in doubles will be the Colligan­
'JI;h bi'ttl'zky with
While Notre Dame playsO'Brien team and a duo of Shcmidt and freshman walk-on Natalie Illig. 
Bradley, Akron and Saint Mary's 

$3.00 pitcfuu and {i{ty ant ka.m.akaz~ 
will compete today. Tomorrow at following two matches against 
Gelfman points out that for the 10:30 a.m. the Irish will go against 

y~ /1 ~.1-ll:.J()
Akron; at 5:30p.m. they will take could be open for some flexibility. 
Akron and Saint Mary's, her lineup on the Belles. 
r
•••••s;__.._y-~ ••_••••••••••••-.
n't fool around! Get a toni 
at FUN TAN where the sun• ~ shines all year round.: 
I 
I I I I I I I I I
ST.RD.23 I 272·7653 I


------· 

Here For The Game • • • The Weekend • • • The Day? Running Short ofCash? 
Ifyou,?ave a ~us-~ bank card, you don't have a problem! tst Source Bank 
says, Welcome, and mvttes you to any ofour 17 conveniently located Resource 
Centers, where you can get the cash you need! Three are located within a mile and a 
halfofthe Notre Dame Campus: 

Sports Briefs 
Bookstore Basketball registration will be held Sun­day from 12-3:30 p.m. in the Great Hall of O'Shaughnessy. The registration fee is $5. This is the sign-up for men's Bookstore only. Sign-ups for women's Bookstore will be held at a later date. -The Observer 
Andy Christoff, Irish assistant football coach under Gerry Faust, has been hired by Georgia Tech as defensive backfield coach. -The Observer 
The ND gymnastics meet originally scheduled for tomorrow has been cancelled. No further rescheduling has been announced. -The Observer 
The ND Rowing Club will hold a practice for both men's and women's (varsity and novice) teams today at 5:30p.m. in the Rockne Gym. The men's novice team my report after its erg test at SMC. For more information call Mike Songer at 283-4108. 
-The Observer 
WVFI Sports, AM-64, will broadcast the final rounds of the 56th annual Bengal Bouts tonight at 7:30 p.m. Frank Mastro, Pete Pranica and Sean Pieri will provide the commentary. WVFI will also broadcast tomorrow NO-Dayton men's basketball game beginning at 12:50 p.m. -The Observer 
rra 
CIRRUS 

1. 
Roseland-52990 U.S. 31 N. at Cleveland 

2. 
St. Mary's College-Haggar ·eollege Center 

3. 
Maple Lane-2230 So. Bend Ave. at Ironwood 


Resource and CIRRUS ... long on convenience wh~n.you're short on cash! ~.source
-.Bank 
-F.D.I.C 

The Observer Friday, March 7, 1986 -page 13 
NSC title, NCAA bid at stake for ND.women 
By JOHN COYLE 
Sports Writer 
This is it. For the Notre Dame women's basketball team, it all comes down to the Dayton game. If the Irish are to clinch their second consecutive North Star Conference Championship and entertain any hopes of going to the NCAA tour­nament, they must defeat the Lady Flyers tomorrow night at the U.D. Arena. 
Notre Dame is currently 20-7 overall, with a 12-1 record in the NSC. The only loss in the con­ference came at the hands of these same Lady Flyers of Dayton in ear­ly February. The 61-58 Dayton vic­tory snapped a 17-game Irish winn­ing streak in NSC play. 
Dayton comes into tomorrow's matchup with an 11-2 conference record (19-8 overall). With no post­season conference tournament, both teams know their NCAA chances ride on the outcome of this game. 
··'This is the game. Everything is on the line," said Irish head coach Mary DiStanislao. 
"If we want a post-season future, we have to beat Dayton. The kids know that and the coaching staff knows it. It's going to be a great game." 
Lindsay Makowski, head coach of the Lady Flyers, will be counting on big performances from several of her top players. At the forwards are 6-2 sophomore Michelle Kruty 
(13.2 points per game and 7.3 re­bounds per game) and 6-0 senior Cheryl Dickerson (10.5 ppg., 9.1 rpg.). Completing the Dayton frontline is senior center Theresa Yingling (13.1 ppg., 8.1 rpg.). 

Rounding out the Dayton star­ting five will be 5-6 senior guard Mary Byers (7.2 ppg.) and 5-7 freshman guard Ann Serra (5.7 ppg.). 
The first player off the bench for Dayton is 6-4 junior center/for­ward Kathy O'Brien (9.4 ppg., 5.8 rpg.). 
"Both teams are playing at their 
best right now and this game has all the makings of being one of the best ever in the North Star," said .DiStanislao. "Dayton beat us at Notre Dame earlier and I know they will have a lot of confidence. It's an important game and we'll be ready to play." 
There is no better time for the Irish to avenge their only North Star Conference loss of the season. While the winner of tomorrow's game is not guaranteed a NCAA bid, for the loser it will definitely be "Wait 'til next year." 

Men's tennis team to host tough slate in meet 
By PETE SKIKO 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team comes home this weekend for a quadrangular meet at the ACC, and at least one of their guests pro­mises to severely challenge the young Irish squad. 
Ohio University, Illinois-Chicago, and Wisconsin-Oshkosh will be Notre Dame's opponents this Saturday and Sunday, and as­second singles player Brian Kalbas notes, beating Ohio will take a'total team effort. 
"All three should be pretty good matcltes," says the freshman, "but Ohio University really has some players this year. They're in a tough conference and are always right up near the top." 
Ohio is a member of the Mid­America Conference, to which Northern Illinois, a team that the Irish lost to last weekend, also belongs. 
"Everyone's coming off a pretty good meet last weekend," says Kalbas. "(Freshman) Tony Cahill is starting to find his groove, and he'll be tough on the fast ACC courts. 

And (sophomore) Dan Walsh is playing a solid number-one singles for us. He played with an awful lot of intensity last weekend." 
The Irish took second place in an Iowa quadrangular last weekend. 
Walsh and sophomore Paul Daggs are slated to fill the number­one doubles spot, and have gelled this year to become a formidable duo. Over Christmas break, they teamed to beat the 20th-ranked doubles team in the nation in a Milwaukee tournament. 
Freshman Dave Reiter and Tim Carr are S-2 for the Irish at second doubles, and are scheduled to play there as well as at two of the singles spots this weekend. Reiter's l-S singles record is misleading, as all five of his losses have come in tough three-setters. 
"Masciopinto is the hungriest and most intense fighter in the tournament," he says. "Mazza is 
Bouts 
continuedfrom page /6 
just in phenomenal shape." meet in a match Kelly calls "im­David Wood and John Mundo possible to call." meet in a match of opposites at 160 
-s;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ss~~~~~~ 
Lee Jeans Tug 0' War FINALS 
Sorin/Farley v. Zahm/Lewis Sr. Class V. Soph. Class 
HALFTIME N:D. -DAYTON BASKETBALL GAME 
Come PULL for your favorites! 
~-~~~~~~ss~~~~~~ss~~~~~ 

6-7:00 
7. 8:00 8-9:00 
Sunday, March 9th 
HISTORY  210 O'Shaughnessy Hall  
ECONOMICS  104 O'Shaughnessy Hall  
PHILOSOPHY  210 O'Shaughnessy Hall  

Everyone welcome to attend. 
pounds. Kelly says Wood showed the "most guts" in his semifinal win while Mundo has the "most natural ability of anyone I've seen in four years." 
At 165 pounds, defending cham­pion Donald Antrobus faces John Burelbach in a match that Kelly says he thinks will be decided by the fighter that is in the best shape. At 170 pounds, Mark Polaski meets Kevin Hamer, two fighters who have impressed Kelly. 


Loads of styles, sizes,colors••• 
1200 pairs of namebrand boots to choose from: 
•Acme 
•Dan Post 

•Tony 
Lama • Texas 

• 
Dingo • Capezio 

• 
Justin •Imperial 

• 
Abilene Infant size 4 through men's size 14. 




•••and great prices 

TO BOOT! 

One mile north of US 20 on Fir Road 56346Th Road, Mishawaka, IN 46646 • (219) 269-1188 Bring this ad In and receive a 1aladlscounton any pair ofboots. Expires March 31 
"Polaski is the new kid on the block and he's just kicking people around," he says. "Hamer's semifinal win was as big a com­eback as I've ever seen." 
Kelly sees the 175-pound match between Michael Renaud and David Becker as a "perfect match of skills and strength" while he predicts a lot of excitement in the 185-pound matchup between John Uhll and Michael Ross. 
"This fight will receive a standing 
Would you many th blushing bride? 
-HAPPY 22nd BIRTHDAY, 
JOHN GLEASON! 

GO IRISH I 
ironwood liquors· 
1725 NORTH IRONWOOD ROAD SOUTH BEND. INDIANA 46635 
12191272-7144 
ovation, without a doubt," he says. "Uhll is the most improved boxer in the tournament and Ross is the hardest worker around. He's in great shape and he always sticks around for an hour after practice." 
In a stronger Super Heavyweight division, Daniel Quinn will give defending champion Pernell Taylor a stiff challenge for this year's title, according to Kelly. Kelly also says this year's tourna­ment has been beneficial to all peo­ple involved. 
"Our goal was to put on the most successful show ever as far as atten­dance and competition, and we've done that," he says. "Anyone who wants to contribute to a very wor­thy cause and see an incredible show for $3 should purchase a ticket and join the show for $3 should purchase a ticket and join the 4,000 other fans that will be screaming at Stepan." 
Tickets will be sold in the dining halls, while posters and programs will be sold at the bouts "in hopes that they will sell to feed a few more people." 
orrection 

Because of a reporting error, a result in the 147-pound divi­sion of the 56th annual Bengal Bouts was reversed in yester­day's paper. Matt Coash defeated defending champion Joe Collins on a split decision in Wednesday night's semifinals. 
r----------------------------~ 
52929 u.s.31 tlorth 
-..,..-......_...__ 
With this coupon receive a 
Large Pizza for Medium Pizza Price Medium Pizza(orSmall Pizza Price (Delloery Orders Only) After 5 pm on Fri.-Sat. Only (Limited Delioery Area) 
277-5880 Offer Expires Mar.15 
~----------------------------~ 
The Observer Friday, March 7, 1986 -page 14 
Barlow to wind up illustrious college career 
By NICK SHRANTZ 
Sports Writer 
How quickly time flies. 
"It seems like just yesterday I was being asked about having to play Kentucky, UCLA and Indiana in one week back when our seniors were freshmen," Irish coach Digger Phelps says. "Now it's their last home game." 
That last hurrah for Notre Dame seniors Ken Barlow, Jim Dolan, Tim Kempton, and Joseph· Price will be Saturday at 1 p.m. against Dayton. 
While all four players will be missed, the Irish are going to have a difficult time replacing the leader­ship and scoring punch of Barlow, the team's captain for two years and also the second leading scorer. 
''The Dayton game will be a culmination of my home career here," Barlow says. "It will be a nice time, but sad because it's my last home game." 
"It's sad because I'll never see all the Notre Dame fans together again. I will definitely try to go out on a good note." 
Barlow will wind up his career at the ACC Saturday with several records in hand, and his name high up on many all-time lists. 
By playing in Monday's game against New Orleans, Barlow mov­ed past Bruce Flowers to be number one in career games played with 118. 
In addition, Barlow only needs 18 points to move past John Shumate for lOth place on the all­time Irish scoring list, with I ,335 points. Barlow is in the top 10 in career field goal and free-throw percentage. 
In addition, his 88.3 percentage from the line this year should be a new all-time single-season high. 
Despite all these records, Barlow's skills are sometimes forgotten because his game is so consistent. For example, the 6-10 forward has scored in double figures in 24 of the 26 games in which he has played this season, in­cluding 17 straight games with 10 or more points to start the year. 
This consistency has enabled Barlow to lead the team in reboun­ding this year, while also placing se­cond in scoring with 15 points per game. 
Phelps is one person who doesn't have to be told about the value of a player and person like Ken Barlow. 
"Ken Barlow is one of the hardest working players we've ever had here," Phelps says. "He's made himself into a pretty good college player with his dedication to weight training, and this year by working on his foul shooting." 
"He just keeps getting better and better each year, and we're really going to miss his scoring punch." 
With his fine college career com­ing to a close, Barlow can look back on his career with many positive memories. 
"My career here has been very satisfying," Barlow says. ''Some times have been tough, but overall these years have been good and I'm happy. 
"I don't think any school could combine the athletics and academics like Notre Dame . I've been successful on the court, but I also got a good education." 
Barlow's improvement since his freshman year parallels the growth of the Irish team over the last four years. The Indianapolis native has improved his scoring, rebounding, and free throw averages each year. 
FULLER HORIZONS 
~RD PR<XFSSING/SECRETARIAL SERVICES Pick-up/Delivery and Discounts Available SPECIALIZING IN: 
Dissertations -Theses -Reports Stuient Profiles -Resumes -Letters "Professional papers at affordable rates" 2 1 9 -2 9 1 -5 5 5 6 

RRrl'PMIJ ~# are back 111 
SOc Peachtree & Apple Barrel 
drmks 
SATURDAY 
Come dance t.r1e night away at 
"The (Juh" r-11 ,.r.::. '"".::.lr • .-..rn.oll 
...._____-:-~~ 
Likewise, the Irish have moved from first round losers in the NIT his freshman year to a team that is 22-5 this year and has a good chance to go far in the NCAA Tournament. 
"I'm not surprised how far our team has come because we have the experience and the talent needed to win games," Barlow explains. "We have good people in key positions, and good backups so we don't lose anything when we go to the bench." 
"My senior year has been the highlight of my career because this year, more than in the past, we have the chemistry that you need. It's been fun because we have more overall strength and we've won a lot of games." 
When Barlow shoots his patented jumper from the corner or soars for a dunk, his smooth style is somewhat deceiving. Fans shouldn't be fooled, as Barlow has spent many hours of practice in get­ting his game to the point it is to­day. 
"I've had to make a lot of changes in order to get better," he says. "I've had to work longer, especially in the weight room, to gain strength and make my game stronger all around. These four years have really been a growing process and I've gained a lot of ex­perience as a result. 
With his fine college career en­ding, Barlow still has the realistic hope of playing more basketball in theNBA. 
''Hopefully I'll do well in the NBA draft," he says. "But now I'm worried about the NCAA's and then the rest will fall into place." 

Alumni-Senior Club ManagerAppHcations 
Positions available:
*General Manager
* Assistant Manager Food and Beverages
*Assistant Manager Promotions and Rentals 
Deadline for applications is Friday, March 14. Interviews will be March 17 through March 19.Pick up applications in the Student Activities Office, 1st floor Lafortune. 


The Dayton game signals the end -per game in the NBA, instead of of an era, as Barlow and his three for the Irish, will fans fully realize classmates move on. Only next year what an impact he had on the suc­when Ken Barlow is scoring 15 cess of the Notre Dame basketball team. 





~4(Jt~C3L~-----------------------------------------F_n_·d-ay_,_M__ar_c_h_7_,_I9_8_6___ 5
P_ag_e_I__ 


SPONSORED BY: THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
Splash 

65 Enoch­66 Woman, In law 67 Osculate 68 Sanctified 69 Flintstone 70 Summer: Fr. 
DOWN 1 Parrot 2 -Gay 3 Lively old 
dance 4 Type of novel 5 Cyma recta 24 Layer 27 Nimbus 29 "Doctor 
Zhlvago" 
author 30 Kind of bread 31 Henry James 
biographer 40 Loft 32 Biblical weed 42 Clods 33 Commoner In 45 Kitchen Item 
old Rome 48 Knlght·­34-avis 50 Sang lightly 35 Regretful miss 52 Banter 37 Mars: pref. 54 Home on high 
INSIDE". 
3/7/86 
3/7/86 
55 Painter Max 
56 Free 
57 Ringlet 
58 Cache 
59 Partakes 
60 -rickey 
62 Part of Can. 

"Mr. Ainsworth ... Calling Mr. Allllnsworth ... If you're within the sound of my voice, Mr. Ainsworth, please give us some kind of sign." 
Campus 

*12:15 p.m.-Workshop, Clayton Eshleman, 
Sophomore Literary Festival, Library 
Lounge, Sponsored by SAB 

*3 p.m. -Women's Tennis, Notre Dame 
Quadrangular: Bradley/ Saint Mary's/ 
Akron/ Notre Dame. Courtney Courts 

*3:30 p.m. -Lecture, "Philosophy of 
Language, Part III," Prof. Saul Kripke, Room 
118 Nieuwland, Sponsored by the Exxon 
Distinguished Visiting Scholar Series, the Col­
lege of Arts and letters and the Dept. of 
Philosophy 

*4:30 p.m. -Lecture, "Two-State Laramide 
Orogeny in the Southwestern United States: 
Tectonics and Sedimentation," Dr. Charles 
Chapin, New Mexico Bureau of Mines and 
Mineral Resources, Room 101 Earth Science 
Building, Sponsored by the Dept. of Earth 
Sciences American Association of Petroleum 
Geologists 

*6:30 p.m. -Meeting, Ichthus Christian 
Fellowship Meeting, "God's Presence in 
Everything," Pasquerilla West's Chapel 
Lounge 

Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Baked Sole with Dressing Salmon Fettucini Fried Clam Hoagie Broccoli Cheese & Rice Casserole 

BefOre You Dr1ve ......".... 
*7, 9:15 & 11:30 p.m. -Movie, "Splash," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by SAB, $1.50 
*7:30 p.m. -Meeting, Charismatic Prayer Meeting, Stanford-Keenan Chapel, Sponsored by the People of Praise Club *7:30p.m.-Movie and discussion, "Quest for Fire," coordinated by Prof. Jim Bellis, Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by the An­thropology Club 
*7:30p.m.-Bengal Bouts, Stepan Center *7:30p.m. -Movie, "La Nuit De Varennes," Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by the Fri­day Night Film Series 
*8 p.m. -Sophomore Literary Festival with Robert Cormier, Library Auditorium *8 p.m. -Concert by organist Todd Wilson, Sacred Heart Church, Sponsored by the Dept. of Music, University Ministry and the South Bend Chapter of the American Guild of Organists 
Saint Mary's Tuna Melt Batter Fried Fish Calico Skillet Broccoli Cheddar Quiche 

Friday, March 7th, Saturday, March 8th 7:00, 9:15, 11:30 p.m. 
Please, no food or drinks in Auditorium 

, "Student Activities Q,oard "
, 
M M 
J 




-
~-­

S~orts 
Irish get ready for Dayton invasion in final home game of the season 
By GREG STOHR tournament bid. Perennial tourney virtually have eradicated the 
Sports Writer teams suddenly seem to realize that dwindling NCAA chances of tradi­
17-11 or 16-12 may not merit them tional powers DePaul and Mar­
After 286 starting assignments, a shot at college basketball's na­quette in recent triumphs. Con­3,506 points and 2,058 rebounds, tional championship. quering the Flyers as well would four Notre Dame seniors -Tim Dayton is one such team. The HI­give Notre Dame, which has won Kempton, Ken Barlow, Jim Dolan ll Flyers need to duplicate their 67-five straight contests, valuable and Joseph Price -will play their 65 victory over the Irish la:;t momentum as the NCAA tourna­final game in the ACC tomorrow. February 5 to retain much hope of ment approaches. The foursome will lead the Irish reaching the NCAA field of 64. "Right now, we're playing pretty against the upset-minded Dayton "You'II probably see teams in the good basketball," says the Irish Flyers in a I p.m. game. NCAA tournament with II losses,," coach. "I think we have a lot of in­
"I'm sure this last home game said Phelps. "(Dayton) is going to dividuals playing with confidence, will be a little bit of an emotional come up here trying to steal an and that's what you want as the moment for the four seniors after NCAA bid." season winds down. everything they've accomplished Dayton boasts three players who "If we can beat Dayton Satur­here," said Notre Dame head coach score in double figures. Senior big­day, we'll be 23-5, and then I think Digger Phelps. "Barlow, Price and man Dave Colbert heads the squad we can say we got what we wanted Kempton all were starters in their with 20 points in February. Senior out of the regular season and now first home game as freshmen, and swingman Damon Goodwin, mean­let's get ready for the next phase." all four of them have been so im­while, averages 13.6 points. portant to us for these four "They really complement each IRISH ITEMS -David Rivers seasons." will return to action tomorrow
other very, very well," Phelps said. 
The Flyers will have ample incen­"We saw what Dayton is capable of after missing Monday's 75-67 vic­tive of their own. Now is the time when they beat us in Dayton. They tory over. New Orleans with a of year when above-average basket­play smart, they're patient, and sprained ankle . . . Donald Royal ball teams all across the country they're not a team that will beat also missed practice time during the scramble to improve their records itself very often." week because of a bruised hip, but so they can gain a coveted NCAA The 12th-ranked Irish already will play against the Flyers. 
Final rounds of 56th Bengal Bouts on tap tonight at Stepaln Center 
By RICK RIETBROCK 
Ul1 "as tlie battle of "Cinderella witnessed in another top fight at 
Sports Writer 
stories who will' go toe-to-toe untif 145 pounds between Thomas 
the end." Newell and Patrick Loughran. 
Freshman Michael Noone and ''Newell has more finesse than 
The 56th annual Bengal Bouts Mark Anderson also should havt: a anyone in the tournament and has will come to a close tonight but not close fight according to Kelly, as the best moves in the tournament," before some more excellent mat­both are outside boxers. At 138 Kelly says. "Loughran, on the other ches are fought, and some new pounds, Anthony Bonacci, a hand, is a strong puncher who champions crowned. former champion, and best friend keeps on coming." 
Boxing Club president Ed Kelly Edward Borneman will battle in a Matt Coash will be awarded the has praise for all of the boxers, and match Kelly is anxious to see. title at 147 pounds because Robert says that tonight's matches should "This is a contrast in styles," he Harig is medically unable to box provi~e some incredible action for says. "Bonacci is a finesse fighlter because of four stitches under his the f~ns. while Borneman is an inside eye. At 150 pounds, Kelly expects 
At 125 pounds, Kelly says it will fighter. Whoever fights his type of the brawl of the night when Ted 
be a battle between Pat Baccanari's fight will win this one." Gradel and John Weber meet. 
"hunder to win" and Thomas At 140 pounds, Joe Romero and At 155 pounds, Jeffrey 'Berens' experience, while the 130-Frank Tantalo will meet in what Masciopinto and Michael Mazza 
pound match between John Good­Kelly termed as a "battle of wills." 
wll}e anii Thomas Hayman shapes Another contrast in styles will be see BOUTS, page 13 
Friday, March 7, 1986 -page 16 
Dayton's Anthony Grant (right) tips in a bucket for his team in a game earlier this year. Tomorrow Grant's Flyers invade the ACC for a 1 p.m. contest with the Irish. Greg Stohr previews the game at left. 
ND women trounce Xavier for 20th victory of the year 
Special to The Observer Notre Dame raised its record to • 
20-7 with the win, while the Lady 
CINCINNAT1 -The Notre Musketeers dropped to 2-26 (2-12 Dame women's basketball team in the NSC). The win was the 1OOth won its 20th game in convincing at Notre Dame for Irish head coach fashion last night, trouncing North Mary DiStanislao. Star Conference rival Xavier, 76-The Irish have now won 20 45, at the Schmidt Fieldhouse. games in two consecutive seasons, 
The win sets up a clash for the and three of the past four years. conference title tomorrow at Senior forward Trena Keys pac­Dayton, pitting the Irish (12-l in ed a balanct:d Irish scoring attack the NSC) against the Flyers ( 11-2 in 
see IRISH, page 10 the conference). 

ND's tourney trek will begin in Twin Cities 
That annual weekend of college basketball uncertainty 
And although the students are hoping to road-trip to is upon us once again. All across the country, fans are the games and aren't going to like this, you can probably speculating about who their favorite team might play in cross off Dayton as well. Despite the fact that Notre the NCAA Tournament, where they might play and in Dame is so popular in the Dayton area, so are Xavier, some cases, if they will play at all. Miami (Ohio), Cleveland State and Kentucky, four other 
teams likely to make the tournament which also areNotre Dame fans can eliminate the third part of that closer to Dayton. 
question. The nation's top independent and 22-5 going in­Undoubtedly, Minnesota is the best bet. About a nineto tomorrow's regular season finale with Dayton, the pack finisher from a strong conference, like Iowa from hour drive away, traveling to Minneapolis would not beIrish are assured of a berth in this year's tournament. But the Big Ten. 
totally out of the question for students. There is a strongthe other two questions remain unanswered-at least until 
Where Notre Dame might play is a somewhat easier 
Notre Dame following in the Twin Cities and the games pairings, seedings and site assignments are announced que:>tion. There are eight first/second-round sites: would be played on Friday and Sunday, which allows for Sunday at 6 p.m. on CBS-TV. 
Syracuse and Greensboro, N.C., in the East Regional; 
a minimum amount of school to be missed. Add that to Baton Rouge, La., and Charlotte, N.C., in the
The first question concerns who Notre Dame can ex­the-fact that all games will be played in the Metrodome, Southeast; Dayton and Minneapolis in the Midwest; and 
pect to play. While a difficult question, and one which is which means a lot of tickets are going to be available Ogden, Utah and Long Beach, Calif., in the West. Of the
impossible to answer at this time, some things can be because the facility seats about 33,000 for basketball, and eight teams at each site, the two which can win twice will 
deducted which shed light on the subject. Minneapolis seems most probable. advance to the regional sites: East Rutherford, N.J., in
Presently ranked anywhere from sixth to 14th depen­Still, don't rule out the West just yet. A perennialthe East; Atlanta in the Southeast; Kansas City in the
ding on which poll you look at, the Irish are almost cer­weakling in terms of the number of good teams, the West Midwest; and Houston in the West. 
tain to be one of the top four seeds in a region. Should is not out of the question. Notre Dame has never been that be the case, Notre Dame would have to beat two You can throw out any possibility of Notre Dame go­shipped out there, which may or may not be a reason for theoretically-weaker teams to advance to one regional ing East. There are just too many good teams there it to happen this year. If Notre Dame should go West, site and be counted among the finall6. already to add one more from the middle of the country. look for it to be to Long Beach and not Ogden. Notre 
What Notre Dame is seeded will not be determined by That leaves six sites as possibilities. Dame has a large following in California and, on top of the poll, however. Instead, the tournament selection Notre Dame Athletic Director Gene Corrigan is a that, already has played in Utah (at Brigham Young) committee will decide based on computer rankings, member of the tournament selection committee, and,· once this season. which take into account such things as schedule strength, whiile he can't pick and choose which site the Irish are put To make all of this a little clearer, expect Notre Dame strength of opponents' schedule, record against top-10 at, he can have some influence in the decision, even if to be playing in Minneapolis next weekend, and if the teams, record against top-50 teams, and record against that influence is ever so slight. Irish aren't there, look for them to be in Long Beach. teams in the top 100. For that reason, you can probably cross off the Until Sunday night, though, there really can't be much 
Who Notre Dame will actually face in anybody's guess. Southeast regional. Notre Dame has little drawing power certainty about opponent, seeding or site. No one will It could be any one of a handful of lesser-knowns making in .either Baton Rouge or Charlotte, and is more hated really know until the pairings are actually announced at 6 the tournament or it just as well could be a middle-of -the-than liked in those parts of the country. p.m. 









