------~----­
71 Jl)C SU~;AN GAt..vr:_ry(\_A. 
Mafia -page 6 
SPE~IAL CCLLECTIONS 
~1 F M:· :~ . A : L I P h: AC.: Y 
-: ; ',' y: 
.·. -' . I 
·-:,· / ~; 

VOL XX, NO. 89 TIJESDA Y, FEBRUARY 11, 1986 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Senate to see 



SMC candidates 
constitution final draft 


reveal platforms 

By MARILYN BENCHIK volved in the elections. This is the
next week 
StaffReporter second year that the presidential student body ticket has run un·
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI 
The role of listening, understand· opposed.

SeniorStaffReporter 
ing, and responding is not a passive "We want students to be more in· one for student government said volved in the student governmentA proposal for a new student 
jeanne Heller, unopposed candidate meetings. We are going to try to government constitution is almost for student body president, last make the meetings more inviting for complete according to Brian Holst, night at the Saint Mary's "Meet the people to come to," added Cook.
Committee on Restructuring Chair­
Canidates Night." "I don't think that we have a man, at the Student Senate meeting "We have been issuing more sur­tremendous apathy problem here,"­I 'gh
.ast m t. 
veys this year to help us assess what said Cook. '.'People want to get in· Holst said most ofthe work on the the student body feels needs to be volved, but they don't always have . 
proposal is finished and a new con­
changed. Gripe Night also helped us the time. More students come stitution will be presented for dis­to receive a good student reaction," during the year, and we create posi·cussion to the senate next week. "All 
said Heller. tions for them as they come. " the major work is accomplished," he 
Heller and the candidates for vice According to Heller relations that said. 
president for academic affairs, Betsy student government will have with Burke, and vice president for stu­the new College president will
Holst told the senate that under dent affairs, Sarah Cook, answered largely depend upon who it is and
the new constitution, the selection 
questions from a panel of Observer what kind ofpresident it is. "We are
of the new Student Activities Board editors and reporters in anticipation all very curious about who it will be
manager each year would be done 
of tomorrow's ballot casting. Voting and very excited about having goodthrough a nominaton by the steering 
tomorrow will also include class working relations with . the newcommittee of the Student Activities elections. president," said Heller.
Board. That committee would be 
Commenting on next year's plans, The Heller ticket also expressedcomposed of five student senators. 
Heller said that, "one of out long concern for the safety ofthe studentThe nominated candidate would range goals for next year is to ex· body. To rectify this problem, thethen have to be approved by the tensively evaluate the academic College is awaiting passage of In­senart= and student bodv president. 
minors program. It seems that not all diana legislation which hopes to of the different minor programs place a flashing light at the U.S. 31Currently. the ~AB manager is 
have the same requirements. It takes intersection. Heller said, "We wouldselected hy thr· outgoing SAH sreer­
\ 
more (credit hours) to g~t some like to see this light stay on for a half
ing committee and SAB controller minors than it does others," said Hel­hour after parietals." 
with approval needed from the con­
ler. According to Heller, anothertroller. 
The ot-rvu!Paul Paborcsky 

Heller also said she would like to safety concern involves raising stu·Holst explained the plan, saying 
Behind the 8-ball 
work on the student body's aware· dent awareness of safety measuresthe job of SAD manager is a unique ness level co~cerning what govern· and the facilities available to them.
junior Fritz Lupone took close aim at tbe cue ball as be racked
job. "The people on the steering ment does,· such as reaching Cook added that another long
up some time at the LaFortune game room last night. The game
committee know best who should 
students through newsletters. term goal is to provide more student
room will continue to temporarily bouse the pool tables until the
be on the job," he said. 
new recreation facility is completed. 
Heller said that, in the future, she . see SENATE, pageS 
would like to get more people in· see ELECTION, pageS 


East-West prisoner exchange to have ended this morning 
Associated Press "He will be on the bridge. The ex­clearly lx: freed before the other ''The exchange was in real danger Western specialists on the Soviet change will be made and the cars prisoners." once again in the last few days. The Union have said Moscow hopes by 
BERUN · Soviet officials have will drive out," the official said, The newspaper telexed the report Soviets insisted that Shcharansky freeing Shcharansky along with im· agreed to release dissident Anatoly speaking on condition ofanonymity. in advance to other news media. It would be swapped 'as an agent, like prisoned spies to convey to the Shcharansky moments before three did not identify its sources, but the the others,"' Bild said. The world its position that he is a spy, Western spies in the expected East· He indicated Shcharansky would newspaper has had other exclusive Americans objected, saying too. West prisoner exchange because leave Berlin immediately from the reports from the Soviet Union that Shcharansky is a human rights ac· the United States insisted he not be U.S. military's Tempelhofairport and have turned out to be accurate. tivist, according to Bild. 
Bild quoted an unidentified West treated like an undercover agent, a Bild said the swap will begin at 11 Shcharansky, 38, was convicted in
head for Israel. German official as saying, "Whether newspaper said yesterday. A U.S. diplomatic source in Berlin, a.m. (5 a.m. EST) today. 1978 on a charge of spying for the 
the Soviets stick to the plan (to free A U.S. official, meanwhile, con­speaking on condition ofanonymity, "U.S. and Russian military vehicles CIA and was sentenced to 13 years Shcharan~~ -y first), only God 
firmed at a news briefing that told The Associated Press, "It will will drive to the middle ofthe bridge in prison and labor camp. The 
knows." Shcharansky would be part of the happen on the bridge before noon." from both sides · then the pas· United States denies he was an agent. swap, expected to take place today The Hamburg newspaper Bild sengers will be handed over," Bild Shcharansky, a mathematician and U.S. sources, speaking on the con· on the Glienicke Bridge between said in an article written for today's said. "The East bloc will let Soviet computer scientist, has said his only dition they not be identified, have West Berlin and Communist East editions, "An agreement has been rights activist Shcharansky free crime was seeking to emigrate from confirmed the West will trade five 
Germany. reached so that Shcharansky will first." 
Landers: world filled with tu·rmoil 
By CHRIS SKORCZ "Alcoholism has reached spinal columns. The primary cause SeniorSmffReporter epidemic proportions. There is of this particularly American cocaine on college campuses and malady is a pervasive attitude in 
"The world today is ambivalent teenage suicide has become the which "people know the price of and· conflicting," said syndicated second leading cause of death for everything but the value of not· advice columnist Ann Landers children between the ages of 16 bing" in a "money-oriented before a predominantly female and 23. Does this mean that there culture for which we are paying audience at Notre Dame's Was­is more stress out there? You bet!" dearly." hington Hall last night. said Landers. 
Responding to charges that sheLanders, whose column appears "We rant and rave about pollu­is merely an opinionated. out·in over 1,100 newspapers tion yet we allow television to spoken lay advisor, Landersworldwide and is read by 85 mil· dump garbage into our living defended herself by asserting thatlion people daily, was at Notte rooms. The security director at the she taps "the bes~ brains in theDame to speak on what it means to airport asks you about cuticle scis· 
country for my column."
be an advice columnist in a world sors yet they give you a steak knife 

she believes is increasing!}' on the plane. The poor want to be "I go to the top authorities in all wrought with social and personal rich; the rich want to be happy." fields ranging from politics to turmoil, especially in this country, Landers said she feels that religion and from psychology to the moral fiber of which Landers America has contracted "spiritual etiquette. I am truly shameless in maintains has weakened since leukemia," which she explained as World War II. a softening of our collective moral see ADVICE, page 6 the Soviet Union to Israel. people. 


Racism, Reagan views targeted by Gregory 

By MARK PANKOWSKI saying he wouldn't watch college AssistantNews Editor athletics because he viewed them as being a system ofslavery. 
We live in a racist society and it's Gregory, whose speech was the the fault of both blacks and whites, second event of the 1986 Black Cul­said author, comedian and human­tural Arts Festival, told the crowd rights activist Dick Gregory, speak· they could go to New York City and ing in front of a crowded Memorial see 800 black youths playing basket· library auditorium last night. ball, yet "only two of them will get 
"We've got a racist ... vicious sys· through." tem," said the best-selling author. "Do you have any integrity at all?" 
"Some of you get recruited to Gregory asked the black athletes, come here and you wouldn't give a who he called "gladiators." Catholic the time of day," said Gregory, however, said the new Gregory, speaking to a NCAA rule requiring athletes to predominantly black crowd of 250, have a C grade point average and a some ofwhom were wearing varsity score of 660 on the Scholastic Ap· letterman's jackets. titude Test coming out of high 
Gregory criticized black athletes for perpetuating the current system, see RACISM, page 6 




The Observer Tuesday, February 11,1986 -page 2 

"Dynasty, Star joan Collins and her partners collected more than S200,000 yesterday in partial settlement of a suit over royalty payments from "The Stud," the 1978 film which revived the 52-year-old actress' career. "The Stud," based on the novel by the actress' sister, was made for an estimated S420,000, but reportedly grossed millions from the box office, and video and soundtrack al­bum sales. Miss Collins reportedly received S20,300 for her role in the film. -AP 
Polka musicians Lenny Gomulka and Eddie Blazonczyk hope their songs, usually associated with ethnic wed· dings and blue-collar beer halls, move in where disco moved out. The two Chicagoans, whose recordings are nominated for the first­ever Grammy award for "Best Polka Album," say the music at last will get some respect. "I see it becoming a craze, possibly a trend-setter like disco was," said Gomulka, whose "Simply Polkamentary" album was nominated along with Blazonczyk's "Polka Fireworks." -AP 
Pope John Paul II ended an exhausting, 10-day pilgrimage across India yesterday with a call for peace and unity, as Hindu militants tried to bum him in effigy. The 65-year-old pontiff, speaking to more than I 00,000 Christians at a youth rally at Shivaji Park, praised India's rich spiritual and cultural heritage and called on Christians to try to heal the nation's many sectarian and communal divisions. Before he began his final speech in India, approximately 30 Hindu fanatics shouted "Pope go home!" and "The pope is an agent of the CIA!" They said he had no business visiting secular, predominantly Hindu India. -AP 
Sen. Edward Kennedy said in an interview broad­cast on Soviet television Sunday that the two superpowers should engage in friendly competition to benefit mankind rather than con­tinue the arms race. "For the United States and the Soviet Union we ought to find areas where we can have perhaps a friendly competi· tion in the cause of humanity," he said. "We will find ourselves at odds far into the future -in philosophy, in economics, in our concep­tion of human rights," Kennedy said. "We will state our separate views, and I hope we will always debate them in peace. -AP 

Of Interest 
The Noon Book Review sponsored by Saint Mary's Center for Spirituality continues tomorrow with a discussion by Gail Mandell, professor of humanistic studies. Mandell will review Muriel Spark's "Memento Mori," a book examining society's attitudes towards illness and death in the aged. The discussion will be from 12:15 to I p.m. in LeMans Hall's Stapleton Lounge. The public is invited to attend. -The Observer 
That's Entertainment, starring mUSICian John Tyler, will be featured tonight from 9 to 11 in the Chameleon Room at Haggar College Center, Saint Mary's. All are welcome. -The Obser­ver 
The Notre Dame community is invited to 
unite in a prayer vigil for peace beginning tomorrow night at 6:15 
and ending Friday afternoon at 12:15. The vigil will be held in the 
Lady Chapel ofSacred Heart. -The Observer 
SOLA, Student Organization for Latin America, will meet 
tonight at 7 in the Center for Social Concerns. ­


Weather 
A cold shoulder may be a gift in store from Mother Nature. Snow flurries today with highs in the mid to upper teens. Clearing and cold tonight with lows from zero to near 5 below. Partly sunny tomorrow with highs in the low to mid teens. -AP 
The Observer 


Today's issue was produced by: 
Design Editor................................Andy Saal Design Assistant.............. Tracy Schindele Typesetters ...................... Suzanne Hammer 
Bill Highducheck News Edttor............................. Scon Bearby Copy Editor....................... Ann Kallenbach Sports Copy Editor...... Eric Scheuermann Viewpoint Copy Editor.. Maura Mandyck 
lbr Observer ( l :sPS 'i99 2·4000) is published Monday dtroujCh Friday rxcrpl during exam and vacation prriods.lbrObservrr is published by the srudentsofthe llnivcrsiry of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Colle-ge. Subscripuons may be: purchaKd for J~O per year ( SlO per semester) by wriling The Observer, P.O. Box Q. Norre Dame, Indiana -4M'i6 
The Obeervrr is a membc:r of lbr Auodaaed Pras. All reproduction rights are 
~srrved. 
Viewpoint Layout.......... Mdinda Murphy Features Copy Editor.......... Eric Bergamo Features Layout ................ Sharon Emmlte ND Day Editor ...................... Ray Szafranski SMC Day Editor.................... Priscilla Karle Ad Design .................... Catherine Ramsden 
Allison Fahrenhoft Photographer ..................... Paul Pahoresky Typtst .......................................... CoUeen Foy 


Saint Mary's breaks barriers in sexuality education efforts 
Sexuality is often considered a taboo subject on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. Outside of a religious context, the topic seems to enjoy little discus­sion. Two schools, proud to graduate well-rounded, and liberally educated students, had been sadly lacking in educating students on a subject that may become more relevant in the future than many of their present courses. 
Saint Mary's, however, recently took a giant step towards removing that taboo and launched a progressive new Sexuality Education Series, debuting in january, and continuing this month. The series was born from sexuality survey results last spring, that showed a few unsurprising, but nevertheless disturbing answers from Saint Mary's students concerning sexual attitudes on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. 
The survey, sponsored by Campus Ministry and dis­tributed to all students, showed that less than half of Saint Mary's students believe there is an open attitude on campus towards dis­ucussing issues such as birth control, pregnancy, rape and homosexuality. And as few as 30 percent of stu­dents believe they have enough information and can ask questions about physical ---· problems and concerns. 
One of the most interest-L-...,----­ing results showed that seniors were generally less open about discussing sexual issues than were freshman. 
Any one of these survey -··"----­results pointed to the fact that something needed to be done. The Sexuality Educa­tion Council at the College, has put together an im­pressive new series for that purpose. According to Director of Campus Ministry Mary Feeley, the Sexuality series purpose will be to help each individual better understand and appreciate her sexuality. The series, divided into four parts, has been well­attended in its first two sessions, according to organizer Usa Ullrich'. The first session,"Know Your Body -The Inside Story," was led by Dr. Ellyn Stecker. The discus­sion attracted approximately 70 students and 12 to 15 

• staff members. 
The second session, "Body Maintenance," con­centrated on female hygiene, gynecological exams and breast self-exam, topics upon which the survey showed students have questions and need more information. 
Tomorrow the Sexuality Education Series continues with a session on "your body's warning signs," or problems such as herpes, venereal diseases, and AIDS. Sexually-transmitted diseases are not foreign to either 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
GUADALAJARA 
SUMMER 
SCHOOL University of Arizona offers more than 40 courses: anthropology, art, bilingual educa­tion, ESL, folk music and folk dance, history, political science, sociol­ogy, Spanish language and literature and inten­sive Spanish. Six-week session. June 3D-Au­gust 8, 1986. Fully ac­credited program. Tui­tion $480. Room and board in Mexican home $520. 
EEOIAA 
Write 
Guadalajara

Summer School 
Education Bldg., Room 434 l)tiversity of Arizona Tucson, AZ 85721 (602) 621-4729 or 
621-4720 

Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday thrqugh Observer advertising. Call 239·5303 tqr details. 
1--------------·-~~-·-----~ 



~~... I 
I 
I I 


<:Social 5 !Balf'LOom
I 

~era~~
I 
I I 
Tuesday Evenings-8-10pm Beginning Feb. 18, in the Rockne Memorial Room (219)
I 
I
Ten 2-hour lessons $20.0 2-lesson trial $5.0

II 
IdVo [pa.ttU< d?U(uit<d 




L_._.._.__::~~=::_. __J 


Theresa A. Guarino 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor 
campus, and this program, "Protect Yourself and Ot­hers," shows that at least Saint Mary's has come to grips with reality. 
The last series topic will probably draw the most criticism of any others. Many will claim that a program dealing with contraceptives has no place on a Catholic campus. However, being Catholic and abstaining from the use of birth control, is no longer the norm, and the Sexuality Education Council has apparently recognized this. "Optimism-The Worst Contraceptive," will cover 
birth control -"what they are, how they work, what they look like," including the natural family planning method approved by the Catholic Church. The dis­cussion, Feb. 19 at 7 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge, will be led by Karen Wians and Ella Harmeyer of the nursing department, and is expected to draw the largest crowd of any session. 
Students are fond of com. plaining that in many areas, Saint Mary's is behind the times · in attitude and practice. And in many areas, they are correct. But the College is to be congrat· ulated for its progressive at­
titude concerning sexuality. Unlike Notre Dame, the College has no sexuality code attempting to dictate stu­dents' sexual behavior. Education, not regulation, seems to be the word to describe Saint Mary's attitude. 
And that is a welcome breath of fresh air for either campus. 

~.....
....
-

--------------------------'ilii-
The Obserwr Tuesday, February 11,1986 -page 3 

Center for Spirituality gives update to board 
6yPEGGY PROSSER "The center for spirituality al­StaffReporter ready has made a mark nationally. No other school is doing it, attend­
Saint Mary's has long been a place ing to the needs of women in the where traditions have been born, Catholic church." and the new Center for Spirituality The center is going to be here for plans to continue this, said Keith you when you leave here," said Don­Egan, one of the center's co­nelly. directors. Egan encouraged those wishing to 
Egan spoke last night at the joint become involved with the center to 
meeting of the Saint Mary's Board of visit their office, located on the first Governance and Programming floor of Madaleva. Board. "It's not going to be a place that 
The purpose of the center, said takes care of church mice, people Egan, is to encourage the roles of who like to look pious," said Egan. women in the Catholic church, and Students wishing to serve on the to place emphasis on college center's advisory board are en­resources involving the total com­couraged to contact Egan at the munity, using the values that have al­center's office. ways been present. In other business, Julie Harmon, 
vice president for academic affairs, 

Egan cited the Saint Mary's announced that anyone going to traditions ofvalues, goals and visions Florida for spring break should con­when explaining the idea behind the tact her, as student help is needed to center. staff the ND/SMC alumni van. 
"We hope that the question that "That's Entertainment,' starring 
comes from the student body will be John Tyler, will be featured in Hag­not what can a center for spirituality gar College Center from 9 to 11 do for us, but what can we do for that tonight. Refreshments will be center," said Egan. served. 
Doris Donnelly, also co-director Regina Hall President Mary Flynn ofthe center, stressed that it is for all announced a "Sell-Out" sale Satur­
Senior Gerry McCafferty studied in a com­hermemory, McCafferty also tested tbe newcarpet­

Saint Mary's women, including day in LeMans lobby. Items to be 
fortable position at tbe newly remodeled Nazz in ing in the basementfor its softness. 

alumnae. It is also one of the first of sold include hall sweatshins, but­
LaFortune Student Center last night. While testing 

its kind, she said. tons, boxer shorts and cookies. 


Reagan calls for Philippine unity amidst election turmoil 
WASHINGTON -The Reagan ad­ministration, sidestepping judgment on reports of widespread fraud in the Philippine presidential election, called on both sides yesterday to abide by the outcome and work together for reforms without street demonstrations and violence. 
President Reagan, preparing to meet today with 20 U.S. government observers who had monitored the balloting, told reporters that despite charges of fraud the election showed there is a "strong two-party system now in the islands." 
Before leaving for home, the ob­servers reported instances of vote-buying, attempts at intimidation, snatching of ballot boxes, tampered election returns and the disfranchis­ing of thousands of quazlified voters in areas thought to be sympathetic to challenger Corazon Aquino in her race against President Ferdinand Marcos. 
One member of the delegation, Sen. John Kerry, D-Mass., told reporters last night on his return from the Philippines, "I think there were very serious problems in this election and everyone is aware of that." 
The delegation's co-chairmen, Sen. Richard Lugar, R-Ind. and Rep. John Murtha, D-Pa., refused to dis­cuss their findings immediately, tel­ling reporters at Andrews Air Force Base outside Washington that they would report on their findings when they meet with Reagan. 

A senior administration official, laying out U.S. policy but speaking on condition he not be identified by name, said, "The main thrust of our statement is not to have violence, not to have demonstrations in the street just because you didn't like the election (outcome). Get on the team and work with the government to form a government, whether it's Marcos or Aquino." 
Although the adminstration publicly portrayed the election outcome as being in doubt, one senior official, also speaking privately, said, "It seems very logical at this point that Marcos is going to win. It seems Marcos is going to get the majority." 
The official said the United,States' goal is to convince Marcos to listen to the opposition and deal with it fairly. 
Marcos and Aquino both claimed victory. 
State Department spokesman Charles Redman said, "Whatever the final outcome, the Filipino people have shown a truly inspiring com­mitment to the democratic process. They have voted in large numbers, they helped police the election 
process and literally protected bal­
lot boxes." 
At about the same time Speakes was briefing reporters, a band of Marcos opponents burned the Philippine president in effigy near the Philippine Embassy in Was­hington and called on the Reagan ad­ministration to pressure him out of office. 
Reagan, asked about election fraud during a meeting with out-of­town reporters, said, "I think any of us would be concerned." 
However, he said, "I'm not going to really comment in detail on the evidence of that" until after his meeting with the observer team. 

Fresh, hot, great-tasting pizza from DOMINO'S 
PIZZA®. Made to order and 


o~(Jr
delivered In 30 minutes, guaranteed, or you get $3.00 off your order. ~ 
And on Tuesday, get $2.00 Call us: off any 16-inch cheese 
277-2151 
pizza with 2 or more 1835 South Bend Avenue 
toppings. 
Plaza 23 Center Just ask for Tuesday's South Bend special. Available all day 
Our drivers carry less than $20 00. No 
this Tuesday ... only from coupon necessary Just request the Tuesday special. Limited delivery •ru.
Domino's Pizza. C 1986 Domino's Pizza, Inc 
DOMINO'S 
PIZZA 
DELIVERS• 

~•• FREE. 


U.S. continues exercises off Libya 
Associated Press The last such exercise was con­aloft from the Saratoga to meet ducted from Jan. 24-31. Unlike that them, the sources said. 
WASHINGTON -The United exercise, the new American Before the planes were close States, stepping up its pressure on maneuvers will occur at the same enough to establish visual contact, Libya once again, has ordered two time that Libyan sea and air forces however, the Libyans turned around aircraft carriers back toward the are conducting an exercise of their and headed back for shore, one 
own in the area. The two countries source added. The Saratoga was

Libyan coastline for another series of also will be operating off Libya's more than 100 miles offshore at the
air and sea maneuvers, the Pentagon coast at a time when Libyan leader time, the source added.
said yesterday. 
Moammar Khadafy has ordered his
The decision was disclosed During the last such U.S. exercise,
air force to intercept civilian Israeli 

through the release of a "Notice of which involved the same carriers,
airliners flying over the Mediter­

Intent" to conduct flight operations Libyan and American fighters fre­ranean.
within an area that is overseen by quently crossed paths but avoided 
air-traffic controllers in the Libyan Pentagon sources also disclosed any confrontation. capital ofTripoli. yesterday that two Libyan Mig-25's Last month's maneuvers were or­The notice specifies that opera­
had flown northward from a land dered in what administration offi­

tions will be conducted by the Coral b~ on Sunday toward the ap­cials described as a "show of Sea and Saratoga within the Tripoli proaching American fleet. The resolve," prompted by an earlier flight information region from 7 p.m. Soviet-made jets were spotted on decision by Col. Khadafy to place his 
EST today to 7 p.m. EST Friday. radar and F-14 fighters were sent own forces on alert. 

Tylenol removed after poisoning 
Associated Press During . an autopsy, examiners Yonkers Police Commissioner detected cyanide in her blood and joseph Fernandes said at a news con­YONKERS, N.Y. -A grocery chain are currently performing funher ference that there is no evidence pulled Tylenol from store shelves in tests, said Palermo, who did not that any possible tampering goes 
26 states yesterday as a identify the woman. Three of the beyond the local area. "precautionary measure" after aut­capsules remaining in the bottle horities said a 23-year-old woman were suspected to contain the Palermo said the county had em­who had taken the pain-relieving poison, Palermo said. bargoed the sale of Tylenol and drug died of cyanide poisoning. The U.S. Food and Drug Ad­asked consumers to return any con­
A&P Food Stores ordered the ministration, in a statement issued in tainers they bought within the past removal from all of its stores, which Washington, said that it was joining two months. 
Jim Murray, a spokesman fornumber more than 1,000, company the investigation. 

Johnson & jo~nson in New

spokesman Michael Rourke said. "The FDA advises that residents in "We did that as a precautionary the Yonkers, New York area, should Brunswick, N.J., said company offi­
cials were trying to get more in­measure this afternoon pending the avoid taking Tylenol capsules until formation from police beforeoutcome of an investigation being more is known. As a special precau­deciding what, if anything, theyconducted by the Yonkers police tion, the FDA funher advises con­

would do.

department," he said. sumers to avoid code ADF916, 
Clare Palermo, a spokeswoman expiration 5-87. The lot has been in Seven people were killed in the for Westchester County Executive distribution since August 1985 wit­Chicago area between Sept. 29 and Andrew P. O'Rourke, said the hout other known instances,'' the Oct. 1, 1982, after taking cyanide­woman died Saturday while visiting statement said. laced Extra-Strength Tylenol. No friends in Yonkers, and had taken The statement noted that, "In the one was arrested in the incidents, 
two capsules from a 24-capsule past, such instances have invariably which prompted a nationwide bottle of Extra-Strength Tylenol. proved local in nature." withdrawal ofthe medication. 



The Observer Tuesday, February 11,1986 -page 4 


HFletcher Christian and Captain Bligh had known what being stuck in the same boat would mean, chances are neither would have set foot aboard. 
And if you're stuck in the same boat with a long distance company that doesn't give you all the services you need, it's easy to harbor mutinous thoughts. 
But when you pick AThT as your long distance company, you know you're in for smooth sailing. You11 get trouble-free, reliable service. Immediate long distance connections-even at the busiest hours. And long distance operators to assist you with immediate credit for wrong numbers and collect calling. 
And you11 get discounts off our Day Rate on your state-to-state calls. With savings of over 50o/o during weekends until Spm Sundays, or nights from llpni to Sam, Sunday through Friday. And 40% discounts eve­nings between 5pm and 11pm, Sunday through Friday. 
So when you're asked to choose a long distance company, sign aboard with AThT. With AT&T Long Distance Service, you'll never be left stranded. just call 1 800 222-0300 for more information or to choose AThT. Reach out and touch someone~ 





-====ATs.T 
The right choice. 
CAT&T 1986 

The Observer Tuesday, February 11,1986-page 5 
Zapped 
No,jobn Trusela was not working wttb the latest laser equip­ment, he was simply adjusting the photo enlarger at the Riley Hall ofArt and Design last night. Trusela was working on a photog­raphy project for class. 

you joined Northrop DSD! You'd find the freedom to interact with the industry's brightest minds. You'd meet the industry's toughest challenges. And you'd have an opportunity to explore your own limits. ~ a professional. ~ a person. 
We have career opportunities available for MBA's, Bachelor's and Master's graduates in: 
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING, COMPUTER ENGINEERING, COMPUTER SCIENCE, PHYSICS, MATHEMATICS. 
Our representatives will be on campus February 21, 1986. 


Chinese 'Year ofthe Tiger' roars in 
By BUD LUEPKE 

StaffReporter 
The Chinese welcome in the new year with feasting, fireworks and dancing in that country's biggest nationwide party, said Ge Min, a visiting professor from China, last night at a Foreign Study Program lecture. 
Min, who has been at Notre Dame for a year on an exchange program from the Tiajin Foreign Language In­stitute, said the Chinese New Year is the largest annual celebration in China taking place over a five to seven day period. The New Year, 
also called the Spring Festival, 
begins on the first day of the lunar 
month which was Feb. 9. 

Min said planning for the holiday, which includes a huge feast, new clothes and fire works, begins a month ahead of time. Housewives line up in the department stores to buy the food, clothing, and gifts that they will need for the festival, she said. "People like to save money the whole year, but at this time of the year, you never save money," Min said. 
On New Year's Eve, the family gat­hers together for a large meal and the chopping of dumplings. The chopping is supposed to keep away devils and can be heard throughout the apartment complex, Min said. ·Usually in bed by II p.m., the family on this night remains awake until early morning. 
Min said New Years Day is spent visiting neighbors and sharing tea, cigarettes and snacks. Min described the day as "a time toforgive people." 

Min said this year is the Year ofthe Tiger. Those who are born in this year, which occurs every 12 years, are said to possess might, power, and vitality. 
The talk was sponsored by the Foreign Study Progam of Notre Dame. 

Challenger speculation continues 
Aseociated Press 
WASHINGTON Nasa inves­tigators believe Challenger's right booster rocket may have pivoted into thqhuge space shuttlefuel tank, crushing it and setting o_ffthe fireball that destroyed the ship and killed its crew. 
A space agency source, who declined to be identified, said such a scenario · first outlined yesterday in the industry magazine Aviation Week and Space Technology-is one 


,, 
Schedule an interview appointment through your College Placement Office, or send your resume to: College Relations Organization, Northrop Corporation, Defense Systems Division, 600 Hicks Road, Rolling Meadows, IL 60008. We are an equal opportunity employer M/FN/H. 
U.S. Citizenship Required. 
NORTHROP 
Defense Systems Division Electronics Systems Group 
Northrop DSD: Where the individual thrives ... on opportunity. 
of several possibilities under ex-period of maximum stresses, and a amination. seal leak between two segments of 
A major focus of the investigation the booster rocket that caused a has been the possibility that a leak sideways thrust and put additional between segments of the right structural loads on the ship. booster allowed a plume offlame to The presidential commission in­spurt toward Challenger's liquid fuel vestigating the jan. 28 accident met tank. either puncturing it or raising in secret session yesterday to dis­the pressure inside to cause the ex-cuss an internal memorandum last plosion. July warning officials of the National 
The source said other avenues of Aeronautics and Space Administra­investigation include wind s~ears tion that shuttle_ flight safety was aloft as the 4.5-million-pound "being compromised by potential shuttle stack climbed through a failure" ofbooster seals. 


Election 
continuedfrom page 1 
activites which better utilize the 
Haggar College Center. 
Burke expressed plans to expand 

the role of the Academic Council. 
"Our job is to discuss academic 
issues that are important to the stu­
dent body as a whole. Next year we 
plan to be more active," commented 
Burke. 
Heller added that she plans to en­courage the good relations between Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's stu­dent governments. "Our liasons have been good this year. We have representatives to the Hall Presi­dents' Council and the Student Senate. The liasion committee meets about twice each semester," she said. 
"I am very content with the way things are running within the structure. Having two vice presi­dents distributes the work, and it helps everyone work well with each other," said Heller. 

Senate 
continuedfrom page 1 
Junior Class President Jim 

Domagalski said he didn't agree with 
the committee's plan. "I don't think 
it's entirely accurate to say the SAB 
knows best," said Domagalski. 
Domagalski said he didn't think 

the plan is representative enough. 
"There's really no representative 
way this is chosen," he said. 
He suggested that the student 

body president select a candidate 
and then have the SAB steering com­
mittee approve the president's 
choice. "Let the senators on the 
committee have veto power over 
the president's choice," he said. He 
said that giving the senators veto 
power over the president is the way 
the United States' government 
works. 
Domagalski said the student body 

president should 1M: responsible for 
the SAB manager. "The student body 
president 5hould be ultimately 
responsible for the man at the top. 
There should be some form of ac­
countability," he said. 
In an attempt by the senate to amend certain student government election rules, a plan to allow blank votes to be cast was defeated. A blank vote means that a student sub­mits his or her ballot without making a choice. 
Domagalski said he didn't think blank votes should be allowed. "Casting a blank vote is not a com­mon practice in an election for an office," he said. 
------~--~----------­
The Observer Tuesday, February 11, 1986 -page 6 

474 accused mobsters face charges in Italy 
Assodakd Press has been a pervasive influence in 
Sicily for centuries. 

PALERMO, Sicily · The largest Prosecutors claim to have some of Mafia trial in Italian history opened the best-documented evidence ever yesterday, with defendants in steel gathered against the mob, which 
cages and police escorts for the they say will mean less reliance than judges who will hear charges against in past trials on testimony from mob the 474 accused mobsters. members turned informants. 
The government hopes the trial, where charges include drug smug­Much of the evidence was gat­glingand multiple murder, will mark hered with the aid of a recently the turning point in its long fight passed law giving authorities wider 
against the mob. powers. It accords them extensive 
Authorities said 11 5 of the defen­wiretapping privileges and access to dants were at large, including most bank records as a means of tracking of the top-ranking bosses indicted down laundered profits from the after a three-year investigation by multibillion-dollar heroin business five of Italy's top investigating centered on this large island off sout­magistrates. hern Italy. 
The courtroom was built for the Among the charges against the trial at a cost of $1 7 million. The defendants are 90 murders and defendants are held in 30 steel­criminal association involving con­barred cages guarded by armed trol of the drug traffic. Four of the police officers. Approximately 100 defendants are women, who face d~fendants were present for the relatively minor charges such as trial's opening. aiding and abetting criminal activity. 
A reputed leader of the Corleone faction, Luciano Liggio, sat alone in Thirty mobsters have become in­Cage 23, dressed in a blue tracksuit formants in the case, but only one and white sneakers, smoking a cigar. was in the courtroom for the In the adjoining cage was Pippo opening session. Calo, called the "grand cashier" of Among those absent was Tom­the Mafia, who allegedly recycled maso Buscetta, a top Mafia figure mob money until his arrest in Rome who has been testifying in New York last year. in the Pizza Connection narcotics 
Most occupants ofthe cages wore case, so named because drugs were neat, dark suits. distributed through pizza parlors. 
One minute of silence was ob­served in schools, offices and fac­Buscetta has been promised new tories throughout Sicily when the identities for himself and his family trial began at 10 a.m. Many schools in the United States. His lawyer has in Palermo devoted their first classes said he is willing to testify later in to a discussion of the Mafia, which Palermo. 

Racism 
continuedfrom page 1 
&chool will help blacks break out of the system. "Thank God the NCAA put that rule in," he said. 
The new regulation "will make all ofthem black boys that were playing with basketballs play with nuclear physics sets," he added. 
Gregory did not reserve criticism only for blacks, however. Whites were often chastised and were the brunt ofseveral jokes, including one in reference to February being Black History Month. 

Advice 
continuedfrom page.} 
pursuit of the best answer because I 
feel nobody is too busy to be bot· 
hered. 
"Unfortunately life cannot be 
straightened out with one letter to 
Ann Landers or in two inches of 
space in a newspaper. That is why I 
often refer my readers to profes­
sionals who can give them the help 
they need." 
Landers sees her role as that of a 
mediary who is able to touch the 
lives of many people who read not­
hing other than her column. 
Landers derives a great amount of 
satisfaction by being able to "shine 
light on fear and ignorance." 
"Trouble is part ofthe human con­
dition. It is the great equalizer which 
makes you a card-carrying member 
of the human race," she said. "Life is 
what happens to you when you are 
making other plans and anyone who 
is happy all the time is nuts." 
Furthermore, Landers admitted 
that she regularly uses her column as 
a forum for getting her own personal 
opinions across to her readers. In­
cluded in the issues about which she 
comments most frequently are 
nuclear proliferation, seat belts, 
druilk driving. and abortion. 
'flle 67-year-old Landers caused a 
murmur throughout much of the 
predominantly-female audience by 
dechiring that her stance on the con­
troversial abortion issue is one of 
pro-choice. The University upholds 
the tenets of the Roman Catholic 
f . . 
~ 
At' Photo 

A man was attacked andstoned by an angry mob street celebration over the departure of Haitian Sunday in Haiti during an otherwise peaceful Presidentjean Claude Duvalier. Story below. 

New Haitian leaders pledge reform 
Associated Press set a date for the elections or lieutenants, and hunted down elaborate on the new constitu­me!llbers of the dreaded 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti · The. tion. Duvalier private militia, the Ton­head of the interim government Haiti's last free election was ton Macoute. pledged yesterday to share the one that brought Francois As many as 300 people were wealth fairly in Haiti, whose "Papa Doc" Duvalier to power in killed over the weekend, includ­people were ground into poverty 1957. He later declare~ himself ing members of the Tonton during three decades that made president-for-life. Macoute who were hacked and the Duvaliers and their friends His son jean-Claude, who beaten to death. fabulously rich. succeeded at age 19 when "Papa 
Doc" died in 1971, fled with his Namphy announced the dis­
Lt. Gen. Henri Namphy, presi­family and aides Friday in a U.S. solution of the Tonton Macoute, dent of the six-man interim military plane and now is in and asked the people to stop at­government council, said at France. tacking its members. sweating-in ceremonies for the The remarks by Namphy, who He called· in his speech for "a new Cabinet that there will be is the army chiefofstaff, followed fair division of the national free elections by universal suf­a weekend orgy of celebration wealth" in this poorest of the frage and a new, "liberal" con­and violence. Haitians rioted, Western Hemisphere nations, stitution to create a "real and sacked homes owned by the most of whose people earn less working democracy." He did not departed dictator and his than Sl50 a year. 
"We are making progress," he said. "We came from Negro History Week to Black (History) Month." 
"But wouldn't you know it would be February.... I didn't think they'd give us a '31 dayer,' "said Gregory, referring to February only having 28 or 29 days. 
Gregory, a pioneer in the civil rights movement during the 60s, devoted much of his address to criticizing current administration policies. 
The best-selling author called President Ronald Reagan's State of the Union Address "an insult to God," and after reading aloud headlines about the president's proposal to cut health and student aid while boosting military spend­ing, Gregory asked, "What honest, ethical human being would make a statement like that?" 
Gregory, citing statistics showing the average household paid more than S5,000 in income tax ofwhich S3,100 went to defense said, "You try raising your house with that same type ofbudget." 
Take every S5,000 ofincome you have and spend more than $3,000 of it to buy weapons, he said, and even­tually "yourown children will attack you." 
Gregory, a leading expert on nutrition, added that the strongest nation is not the one with the most bombs and weapons, but "the one that has the strongest people men­tally and physically." 
Gregory, who has fasted more than than 100 times to draw atten­tion to such issues as the plight of blacks and the Equal Rights Amend­ment, also criticized the food stamp program. 
"We never needed a food stamp. We needed a nutrition stamp," said the author of"Cooking with Mother Nature," explaining that food stamps permit the poor to buy sugar, donuts and soft drinks. 
The political activist Gregory also chastised television evangelists such asjimmy Swaggert. "They never talk about racism," he said. "How can you talk about sin without talking about racism?" 
Even Notre Dame, where his own brother graduated, did not escape Gre~ory's criticism. 
"When you think about Notre Dame, you don't think about God or Mother Theresa," he said. 
But, he added, ''when God comes, it will be the Mother Theresas He'll take and not the Knute Rocknes." 
Church which proscribes abortion under any circumstances. 
"I sincerely believe that a woman has jurisdiction over her own body. It's a woman's body and the church, state, or anybody else should not be able to tell her what to do with it. No, I do not believe that life begins at conception, " she said. 
Landers acknowledged that she is jewish and that her religion does not forbid abortion. 
Landers did offer some words of optimism and encouragement to college studentsin general. 
"I have some good news about campuses today. Students are looking better. Students are thinking better. And students are smelling better," she said. 
Landers, speaking at Notre Dame for the eighth time in her career, had some words of praise for University President Father Theodore Hes­burgh, a personal friend of hers for over three decades. 
"You have something special at Notre Dame and it starts at the top. 


VILLAGE GREENHOUSE, North Village Mall, (219) 272-5335 FLOWER MARKET, Buyer's Marketpla~·e. (219) 272..(19()2 
• e s ' 
\Totenttn oY
flowers 

We have the b\ ;t prices Delivery ar· ~here 
When I first met Father Hesburgh, his hairwas as blackas a raven's wing and he was lean," quipped Landers. But in the subsequent 35 years, Hes­burgh "has made Notre Dame a spe­cial place because of his high standards. When he is gone, they are going to miss him here." 
Landers concluded her lecture by offering a bit ofadvice to all in atten­dance. 
"If I could give just one bit of advic,. to everyone in the world, I could do it in just two words: be 

·kind. All the world is indeed a stage and some people deserve an Academy Award just for getting out ofbed in the morning so be kind." 







Accent 
Tuesday, February 11,1986 -page 7 

CDs revolutionize the sound of music 

Snite exhibit shows contrasts 
:~~ ..). It 
-..
... 
,. 
P.A.CIMINO 
featuers writer 

0 
ver the last year, the compact disk has been steadily es­tablishing itselfas the newest and best advancement in music. As the world encounters the incomparable sound quality attainable with CD, more and more people are sinking money into compact disk players with the belief that they are invest­ing in the future of the music in­dustry. It is thought that the compact disk will soon replace records and usher in a new and profitable age for the slumping record companies. In any case, the CD has arrived. 
The compact disk player is an interesting piece of machinery. A laser pickup (instead ofa needle) is used to "read" millions ofmicro­scopic indentations on the surface ofthe compact disk. These tiny "pits" as they are called, are used to hold coded information which the laser can interpret and through the wonders of modern electronics, turn into music. Make that great sounding music. 
It is interesting to note that these "pits" are also versatile. This met­hod ofstoring information is also used in the less-ackowledged videodisk. In the case ofthe videodisk, however, there are two simultaneously laser-read tracks (audio and visual) whereas the compact disk has only one. 
The real reason that more com­pact disk player owners have been showing up (including a proud group ofNO students) is that the price has dropped drastically recently. Since 1984 the average cost ofa CD player has been literally sliced in half. 1"1 more material terms, this is a cut ofclose to S250. With price reductions of this type it is no wonder the market is picking up. 
At this moment in time, a list of quality players reads like aJapanese phonebook. Sony, Magnavox, Yamaha, Toshiba, Pioneer, and Technics (a division ofMatsushita) all have quality machines on the market. American companies also have this t~l:hnology and can produce laser pickup machines. RCA has been working with laser pickup since the late 19iO's. However, in this market as in the 
STF.PHANIE SIEGEL 
features writer 

T 
nt: new exhibit in the print 
room ofthe Snite Museum, 

'Artists and Models: Portraits from 
the Hirshorn Museum and 
Sculpture Garden,' is an exciting 
compendium encompassing the 
famous and the obscure, from 
humorous caricatures to emotion­
packed realism. The prints, 
drawings, watercolors and 
photographs are done largely by 
European born Americans whose 
personal styles, in some cases, 
present great contrasts. These vast 
differences, however, do not 
detract from the unity of the exhibit 
since all the portraits are neces­
sarily individual 'ways ofseeing' the 
human face and form. 
The show has been touring na­tionally under the auspices ofthe Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service (SITES) and will remain on view at Notre Dame until March 9. Most ofthe works selected for this exhibit by Frank Getting, curator ofprints and drawings at the Smithsonian, have been specifi­cally chosen to portray the artist's own feelings about friends, favorite models, politicians--and in self­portraits, the artist himself. Several ofthe portraits give psychological insight into the character ofthe artist or the unique relationship between the anist and the model. If the artist isn't particularly well­known, the writeup on this model's signifigance in the life ofthe artist, which is conveniently placed next to each portrait is helpful in ex­periencing the show. 
Some of the portraits, like Alfred Stieglitz's photo ofhis painter friend Oscar Bluemner ( 1915), and Alice Ned's watercolor ofher bohemian Greenwich Village companion Kenneth Dolittle ( 1931), demonstrate the emotional inter­play between the artist and model as well as giving a unique view of the model's personality. Others, such as Louis Eilshmius' portrait in chalk on paper ofRobert Lindner, a fellow anist, is indicative ofthe artists temperment rather than the acquaintance. In this case there was a competition as to who could complete the others portrait in less 
automobile industry, American companies cannot compete with the quality and affordability of Japanese machines. 
Three ofthe models found in a short search of the campus in­cluded two models by Technics and one by Pioneer. All three ofthese models contain the usual array of "state ofthe art" functions available on quality CD players. The machines are made with the ability to correct any imperfect coding found in the disks. This feature is an immediate eye-opener and con­tinued investigation into CD player capabilities leads to funher amaze­ment. They can be programmed to play any sequence ofson~ (this includes the ability to play one song many times in succession), skip past songs or even parts ofsongs and can scan to desired positions anywhere on the disk. The Technics models are also equipped with counter­timers which can be used to show the time a song has been playing. 
Perhaps the best feature is the impeccable sound quality attainable with compact disk and laser pickup. "The disks are much better than records," commented Tim Sigward, owner of a brand-new Technics SL-P1. "With care, CO's will last much longer and will retain dear sound quality." 
Larry Fey, who owns a Pioneer PDSOIO had much the same response. "There is no outside noise ofany kind," he said. "The background is perfectly dead silence and the sound quality remains constant with age." There is no hiss at all in the background and the disks are never subject to any distortion ofstereo recording. 
In fact, the quality ofstereo dis­tinctness is fantastic. "CD does a 
· much better job with stereo than records," said Mike Tatigian who owns a Technics SL-Pl04. "The different sounds are always sharp and dear." 
The disks are made ofa metallic substance (into which the "pits" are indented) with a plastic coating around the outer edge. There is a hole in the middle which is also coated with plastic. The disks come in att.ractive and protective cases time, and Eilshmius, whose inability to sustain friendships stemmed from this intense desire to be the best, won, and lost another friend." Portraits like these, that express such strong stories ofthe faults inherent in human nature, can be a moving experience. 
Not allot the portraits arc· con­cerned with such intense feelings. For instance. Thomas Han Benton's "The Am'-·ri, 1n in Hi .rnrlio · 
( 1921 ) a semi-cubist water­color, virtually obliterates any expression of interplay between arttst and suhject and even downplays his own involvement in favor ofpresenting the generalized theme and playing with form and color. The caricatures, especially those ofsuch well known figures as Jackson ~ollock are rather en­joyable viewing without losing their expressiveness, inherent in the exagerated features and incon­gruous settings. 
Overall the exhibit is sometimes intensely emotional with various and sundry comic aspects in­termixed, but definitely worthwhile. 
with instructions for storage and 
Late included. The CD is a great 
new medium for the sale of musical recordings. The biggest drawback is 
the price. At an average of n 5 a 
disk, customers are unwilling to choose new or unfamiliar music on CD. "People usually pick music they know," said Steve Montgomery ofMusicland in the North Village Mall. He went on to mention that two ofhis store's bestselling disks are Dire Straits' Brothers in Arms and Pink Floyd's Dark Side ofthe Moon. Fey and Tatigian also had good words to say about the Dark Side CD. "It (Dark Side) was made to be on compact disk," said Tatigian. 
At this time, it is still very difficult to find older music on CD. Montgomery noted that Musidand is beginning to get some back stock (Beatles, Simon and Garfunkel and some jazz) but claims that only a few titles will be coming in because it is extremely expensive to master recordings for CD and record com­panies are only mastering music they think will sell. Customers are forced to settle for whatever is in stock. Also, due to the low demand, record stores like Musicland can 
going to sell and therefore order 
conservatively. Consequently, 
Montgomery said, "Many titles are 
hard to keep in stock." So, ifone 
wants a certain disk, one has to be 
in the right place at the right time. 
On the whole, compact disks offer the conscientious music-lover great recordings and a bright out­look for the future. With the arrival ofmore older music on disk, even discriminating buyers may find things they love on CD. Ultimately, however, ifthe compact disk is to revolutionize the music industry, the price must be reduced. 

Martinez checks out his Madonna compact disk 


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~ -~~­


~i~~~_()__i_J_t_·t_________________T-ue-sda-y,_Feb_ru_~-1-1,1-98-6--p-age-8 
Express views on divestment at the referendum 
This is not a letter concerning the Super· Unfortunately for us, the United States is "suffering" is much different from the black seems to be touchable. bowl, nor is it a letter concerning a supporting South Africa, a country where South African's definition of the word. We Take advantage ofthis opportunity to make photograph ofan opposing cheerleader put in events like this and many even worse are have our selfish reasons for staying there, but ' a difference in the life ofsome 12-year-old girl, The Observer nor an article concerning the taking place. Several hundred black families even those don't add up to much. People 86-year-old woman or 35-year-old woman or 
claim we don't have the right to intervene in
placement of a crossword puzzle. It does not are constantly separated by the government; man trying to be the best parent in a world 
the policies of South Africa, but do we have
children are slaughtered in school yards and that will not allow it. It is the responsibility ofconcern the strengths and weaknesses of the right to sit back and watch innocent 
on the streets. These people live with their humans who still have their dignity to ensureCoach Gerry Faust, nor the new coach. AI· people be killed when there is something we 
though all of those subjects are important in lives in danger all ofthe time not because they the dignity ofother humans. As you go to your 
can do about it? I don't believe so. I do believe
have committed some crime, but because classes today or tomorrow think about thedifferent degree to each of us, I feel there is that one day the black South Africans will rise 
one important subject that needs to be their constitution actually supports it. I do not hundreds ofchildren who don't have half the
and at least obtain equality, but this may take 
addressed. understand how we as humans, never mind as chance to be as educated. As you eat your hot 
many more years and generations than neces­
Christians, can sit back and watch hundreds of balanced meal tonight, remember all of those 
sary and will probably become increasingly
Bobbie Kennedy innocent people be killed, tortured and dis· who did not have one meal today because 
violent as the years pass. 

criminated against. they were black. As you watch your favorite The subject which I am discussing is a very Now you ask, what can I do? I have no in· TV show tonight in the sa~ety ofyour dorm or
I 
f, 
guest column controversial one in the United States as well fluence over Reagan nor over the white apartment, think of the black people who 
l 
roam the streets of South Africa and fear for

as here at Notre Dame. The black leaders of leaders in South Africa. Corning up in March (I Let me ask you this: how would you feel if South Africa have pleaded with President believe the day will be the 4th)you as a Notre their lives every minute. Then remember you were to go home in March to find that Ronald Reagan to divest from South Africa in Dame or Saint Mary's student can do someth· there is something you can do, and do it. 1 your younger brother or sister had been killed order to stop supporting the white South ing. There will be a referendum concerning in the schoolyard? How would you feel if your Africans who are treating the blacks so dis· Notre Dame's investments in South Africa. "And when this happens, when we allow
l 
father or mother had been unwillingly sent gustingly. One of our arguments against You will be able to express your opinion freedom to ring · when we let it ring froml ' across the country to work in order to support divesting is that the blacks will simply suffer about the continuation of these investments. every village and every hamlet, from everyl the family? How would you feel ifyou went to more ifwe pull out of the country. The black The Board of Trustees will take into account state andevery city, we willspeed up that dayI your house only to find military people stalk­leaders realize that for a short time this could the students' ideas about our South African in­when all God's children, black men and ing the neighborhood and shooting people possibly be true, but they also remind us that vestments. You may say that this will not sig· white men, jews and Gentiles, Protestants "who appear to have the potential to cause they have suffered for the past 300 years and nificantly affect the issue. Yet Notre Dame as a and Catholics, will be able to join bands and problems"? What would be your response if are willing to suffer if it may bring about highly respected Catholic institution has a sing the words of the old Negro spiritual, 
you were allowed to eat only in certain res­negotiations. great impact on the restofthe Catholics in this 'Free at last, free at last, thank GodA /mighty, taurants, ifyou could go see a movie only at a I know there are other arguments against country and can influence the remainder of we're free at last.' " particular movie theater or if you weren't divesting from the white South African world, the nation. Therefore, your participation in ·Martin Luther King Jr. allowed to go to your favorite bar or ballpark and they are all said to protect the interests of the referendum will count as something. 
any more? I don't know about you, but Iwould the blacks, but I believe we refuse to pull out Today there are many complex issues in the Bobbie Kennedy is in the Freshman Year of ·be extremely angry and confused, and I most of South Africa because we feel America will world which are inhumane, and many ofthem Studies at Notre Dame. likely would become a bitter person. "suffer." Of course our definition of seem to be out of my reach, but South Africa 

P.O. BoxQ 
government so that the people won't explode.

Suggestion of a coup 
I would also like to add that any person in· volved in an election fraud himself refrain


was a 'hilarious' idea 
from commenting on issues of the sort (such
Dear Editor: 
as the questionable results of last year's Inter­Just wanted to write and tell you how much national Students' Organization's electionsI enjoyed Jim Lahren's columns about the out ofwhich Villalon gained co-presidency). 

Philippines. They were hilarious! I guess he 
MansourEid

picked up the Filipino sense of humor while 
Notre Dame student

he was there. A military coup ... in the best 

A l.IMOr OF C1JI.R5t! IT'51M­YOUOR­POfi!:rANT 7V ARRIVE 

f 
IJtRE[) IN mte,MIK&. THE 
A STRJJ66UN6AKTIST 1 THIN6/5 ~!'.!VIlli. OlJT. 
MIKE, I'M PAYING 
fOR IT FROM MY 54WM9.?. 17"'5AN /NVESTMev'TINMY 
CARf;l;R! 
I 

interest of the people . . . . It still makes me giggle. 
Luis F. Razon Chemical engineering department 

Aquino's candidacy only a means of escape 
Dear Editor: 

I am writing in response to Margarita Vil­lalon's letter concerning the Philippines elec­tions. We know that having Marcos in power will guarantee the safety of the two U.S. military bases in the Pacific. The opposition is only a means ofescape that is provided by the 
Garry Trudeau 
50 C/I?CLE THe 8l/T.. 8UT BlOCK! YOV TIJ/0TH.AT> R/6HT Af.t P/3NSC.IJ/E'f(e ACfi?..OSf, 7NE NtJT TAl..!<lNG 
5Tl?E£T. TRAN5~770N ~ HE/?El 
The Viewpoint 
Department 


P.O. BoxQ 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 



Quote of the day 
"It'sthe heartafraid ofbreak­ing, that never learns to dance. It's the dream afraid ofwaking, that never takes a chance." 
BeUeMidler 
"The Rose" 
1979 

Editorial Board Operations Board 

-__Ihe=Obset:Ver= 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager...................... David Stephenitch 
P 0. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 23~-5303 
Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan Controller ............................. William J. Highducheck News Editor ............................................. Frank Upo Advertising Manager .............................. Jim Hagan 
The Observer is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCunoug, Advertising Manager .................... Anne M. Culligan 
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Systems Manager ......................... M&rK B. Johnson 
administration of either instiMion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos· 
Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb Production Manager ....................... John A. Mennell 
s1ble. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy 
tanes, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is 
Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy 
available to all members ot the community and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. laches 
campus. through letters, is encouraged. 
Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Wc:Af Founded November 3,1966 


The Observer Tuesday, February 11,1986-page 9 



The Ohsert•er ~otrc Oamt· otfic:c. located on tht: third floor of Llfortunt: "tudc.·nt < .cntc.·r. ac.c. cpt~ da!>!iificd ad,·cru~ing from 9 am until -1 p m . \tonda~ through htda~ The Obsf!Tt•er Satnt \tan·., offil.t:. loc.atc.·d on the:-thtrd floor of HaAAar Colkgc.· Ct·ntc:-r. ac:u:ph da.,.,ifinJ.. from ll.:\0 p m until .'\ p m. :\ton· day though Frida\ lkadlinc:-for nc.·xt-da\ c.la.,.,ifin.t.. i!. .\ p.m :\II dassifieds mu.,t ht: pre:-paid. c:ithn in pc:r!>on or tn mail.< :hargc: i!t I 0 ct:nts per fi,·c: c.·hara<.·­



Classifieds 
tt-r., r dav 

SMC SEXUALITY EDUCATION my mind is 81 blank u my lfe KELLY (???) I met you at the Senior Ber"It's almost impollible for anybody to 
COUNCIL· PROTECT YOURSELF AND on Saturday night. You uked me tobelieve they"re not loved by someone they OTHERS. KNOW YOUR BODY'S WAR· It's lllm011t impOIIible for anybody to dance: why are you dreaed ao rWc:e-1 just
......._N_O_T_IC_Es__...,JI IL....-.-w_A_N_TE_D~ 
believe they love. . " NING SIGNS (HERPES, URINARY believe they're not loved by someone came from the Revue. Wei how about
Ten.-Wiliams 
TRACT INFECTIONS, ETC.) WEDNES­theybelieve they love.... dinner or 1 mOYie one night. call Joe at
The Night ofthe Iguana 
DAY, FEBRUARY 12, 7:00 P.M. 3404.
OVIEMEAS JDIII. .SUmmer, yr.rouncl.
Typing Availablt! 
T enneaeee Wiliams

Europe, S.Amer., Auetrllla, A81a. AI STAPLETON LOUNGE DR. MARK SAN­287-4082 
DOCK M.D.

flelde.. $~2000 mo. llgtttMeing. 
The Night o1 the Iguana

Frw Info. Wrlw IJC, PO .. 52-IN-4, Coronlt del ...... CA 82625. 

AAMIIEAR STILL UVE8111
THANKS! MURPHSKY.DEBBIE.tMRY SUWVAN SCENARIO '87 LOOKING FOR A CAREER 
JEAN,SAPRILLA,TESSAAINO, MARY Katie SuAivan -Preaident We have found in the put that college 
BETH,tMRIA,KEITH,LAARY,FRANK, Lori Lohman -Vice President THE WORD OF THE WEEK: ltudentl and 111du1te1 excel in our in­
AND EVERYONE! LOVE, ELLYN Jenny Feeney-Tr~rer ATIN: STUDENTS Clare Hausmann -Secretary
dul1fy because they are ambitious and NOVATION LAMA • HAPPY 22ND! $.25 BEERS 
Dolorn Francia typing HrVice goal oriented. National reaeation­WE'LL PAINT A PERFECT PICTURE TONITE? I LOVE VA EVEN THO YOUcompany is looking for a f-good people
phone number change PREGNANT? FORYOUII ALWAYS BLOW ME OFF. HAVE A
to staff our 1986 sales ~ne. High income YES,YES,YES.MATI
2n-a131 
NEED HELP? GOOD ONE. LOVE KERRYpoten!W-excellent opportunity for ad­Cal 234-o363. 24-hr. hotline, counseling 
vancement. Call Mr. Stevenson at 616-I need a ride to Cleveland Feb. 21-23-wi• PANGBORN INVITES Dl TO BE OUR
& free pregnancy telt3. HEY EO TRIFONE! 
THE ST. FRANCIS SHOPPE has weat 695-3873. pay usual or help rent! call Liu-2955! VALENTINE'S CUEEN!I WELOVE YOU
WOllEN'S CARE CENTER Cal Your Cousin-She Doeen'T Have ~ftl fOI' VALENTINE"S DAY! Open to-5, 
Your N-Phone Number! 

Riders needed toMon-Sat. Behind Fatima Retreat Center. 
BUFFAL.0.2/14-2/16.Call Marti at 1728. 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR. 
Hungry? Call YELLOW SUBMARINE at NOT FREEDOM FIGHTER -FREEDOMCARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., 1
need riders to Pitts. thia weekend call 272-HIKE. Delivery Hours: 5pm-12am LOVER! HOPED THAT WOULD GET I Need A Ride To Chicago This Friday. If 
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN. 
Johnxt739 Monday-Thuraday; 5pm-2am Friday; YOUR ATTENTION, MR. NATURAL. Going That Way Please Clll 284-5081 3pm-1am Saturday; 4pm-t0pm Sunday. THANX FOR OUR LUCKY NUMBER 6 After 12pm 
LOST/FOUND I 
Lovlnt catholic couple wanta toadopt 
WEEKEND...BETTER THAN THE an Infant. If you know of anyone whoIa watch lorthe irish surfer watch lor the irish STARS PREDICTED. EX·GROUCHO Joe' Scomingjoe' Scomingjoe'
coneldertng piecing a c:hlkl tor adop­
surfer watch for the irish eurfer Scomingjoe' Scomingjoe· Scomingjoe'REWARD OFFERED. I k»t my gl-1 FOR SALE tion, pleeM Cllll collect (217) M74371 C: What"la AUORAT1 favorite cheese? Scorning Wish Zed A Happy National Joe
week ago. It wu probably in Cushing. att.7p.m. 
Oh, what I baclcrub E. T. could give! A: Why, ham and cheese, at course! Week'O'Shag, or Washington Hall. If you have found them please give me a calli! 3046. 
ThoM were the days • when men wereThanks, Blinder-than-a-bat. 

Semi-furnished houae good neiltlbor· 
YOUNG TRAVEUERI NEWILETTERI men and women were men's. hood aher 4-255-368412n-3604. no.; partner JUDE, THANKI THE ONLY BEST
lncludel:800 travel IT. FOR WHEN THE COUNTS 
service;featurea on exotic OVERSEAS STRENGTH AND UNDEMTANDING. K COUNT ON THE BEST! PATTY ND-SMC Students. Safe. Secure house 
budget travel, work, study! Send check CURRAN-PRES. MAUREEN ERNY-V.P. LOIT: UGHT-IILUE JACKET WITH available for next fal. 4BR Fur­How much of what -are or become
($12/yr.) to: Y.T.N., P.O. Box 3887, N­MARY ROE-5EC. CHRIS RASHID­
RE~D INTENOR AT MOGEr& niahed,lrwulated.Greet Loca· dependl upon talent. luck, appearance.
Haven, CT. 06525 HAPPY BIRTHDAY Joann...no, Janet... TREAS. SR. CLASS OFFICERS TUEIDAY NOHT. 8MAU. AQUA & tion,Reeponaive Landlord. Grouj» of 4 or 
type. environment. fate, timing. intel­nowamean 

PLAID 8CAJtF WA8 WITH JACKET, 5. For more info call Geoff at 288 7276. ligence • native or acquired?-01' is a lot at
THAT'S WHAT FRIENDS ARE FOR JANETTE BURNII 
AUIOLO.T. JACKET WA8 NEW AND I it jult plain pulh-and-lhove? 
Hope you have aj1eltday. Weloveyou!NEED IT TO SURVIVE THE WINTER. Or ia it, could it pouibly be Ill YOU WANT U81 JANEL HAMANN­
MENMENMEN 
8CAIIF aELONOS TO A FRIEND OF predeetined? Could we be merely hap­PRES. ANNIE BUCH-V.PRES. ROZEL
LOVE LOVE LOVE 
..NE. PLEASE CALL AT 3451 IF YOU II It True You can Buy ~ for $44 leN cheeamen jerking convullively GATMAITAN-SEC. MOLLY FLYNN­
ME ME ME 111-01 
ThecJiolw llajcn: Tomorrow pleeM
HAVE THEM. through the U.S. Government? Get the through our movee from aquaretoaquare. TREAS. SOPHOMORE CLA88 VOTE facta today! Call t-312·742·1142 helpleu to avoid this pitfal, that snare. or pertlclpete In the epedal Aah w-.­FEa.121 · yee, aometimee Coming Up ROMI, • Uturgy Ullll...._. by Fr. 0'.....
Ext.7316 

8t7:00p.m. In the Log Chllpel.
called achievement and happi.,.... w.. The Great Wal, Duffy's, the Cltb and for aale-beautiful condo in Somers CHIMES '86 is still accepting your relative happiness. o.c.•
WERE YOU IN THE BOOKSTORE THANK YOU ST. JUDE. 
Square Eaat. $79,900 can nna Mark 674-POETRY, SHORT STORIES, I ART Good timM IJ'tia weekend but where IaTHURSDAY, 216? IF SO, DID YOU HAP· 
6678. WORK for publication. AM aubmiaaionl to CtleiOuotee: O'B?
PEN TO ACCIDENTLY PICK UP A HAPPY BIRTHDAY, MoBroderick!!! 
Max Weatler, 310 MAD., by March 1 h'a not that I don't know ~to do It, I You can find him in the cave or behind theBlACK FOLDER FIUED WITH HAND­We love you!
)uM don't know wtlllt to dol t.nodoubt
OUTS FOR All MY CLASSES.AND A Don't worry, wa1 take care at you at the
Thank you St. Jude ·EM -F.C. Taking care at hia friends becaUM he haaGREEN NOTEBOOK WITH NOTES FOR 
bin! 
the clout. 

THOSE SAME CLASSES? PLEASE 
Love, Kathleen, Unnle, and KathyCALl 4029, OR DROP THEM 
TICKETS Thank you St. Jude for watching over me 
and my family. -PAG ,.._..m to a.-atrut my atuff Silent but violent, someone once Mid,ANYWHERE IN THE VICINITY OF 233 
In the Dllndng IMh routine 8t the Justanordnaryguy acrewedln the hMcl.
FARLEY DESPERATELY NEED 1 DAYTON THANK YOU ST. JUDE Match 5, Dayton B-ba/1 game. Need 5 Here's a small tribute to one fanllltic guy TICKET (STUDENT OR GA). CALL TOM dcMt&. call -atl484. Here's loolclng at you, the Cretture will
SOPHOMORES : Bowling night at Miranda, Beecon Bowl. Thit Thuraday night, never die. 
1226. The bog smell. How about the cave? 75T08TAY AUVE leaving from Mbrary circle at 8:30, bowling LOST: Burgandy Leether Glovet At Ferdinand begirwat 9:00. CoatiaS2.75.1nckJdeltwo 
..........................................~....... 

Senior Bar Saturday February 111. call JOHNNY NEEDS A NEW PAIR OF gamea and ahoea. Any ? or need a ride, Blanche At 284·5119 With Any Informa­Week·end at BOYNE MT. S115 includes; SHOES COULD MAKE THE DIF­call239-5225. tion. trans.,2 nights lodge,2 day ~h.3 meals. Come and relax ~th your favorite FERENCE. 
fun. caa 2n-o161 Valentine... THAT& ENTERTAINMENT Win a trip to Florida for 2 I Flower1l to the LOST: Pair at wire rim glaM8I in black Featuring: John Tyler REVUE first tOO girll ! Come to the MS St cue on Fri. 31 or Sat. 1. If found. please Need GAa for Depaul or Dayton games. Jan tt-SMG-H~~gg~r Colege Center· HAWAII FIVE·O Valentinee Day Dance! Friday from 8:30 call272-3823 or 2n-7596. Call Chad 3684. Chameleon Room 9-ttpm FREE FOOD ROWER IN RED tot :00 AM 
Playa Jamea Taylor. Neil Diamond. and YOU'VE GOT GREAT LEGS! Lost: N.D. Clall Ring at the Roell 10K more. 0t atop teuing us-Are you Hrioua? 3-N 
LOVE 

Gold and Blue Stone inscription: Joleph 
W. Schaefer '86 PIMH call Joe at; 288-The Notre Dame Glee Club PreHnll MEN,MEN,MEN Monica FO!lica, We hope you have a 8410 ~d offered. PERSONALS "A Roee and a Love Song"' LOVE.LOVE.LOVE Happy Birthday! Have a w-t lime 
Valentine'• DaJ Ia

.NOINOVALENT1NE8 ME.ME,ME tonight. juat stay out cl the stall well! Delivered Thursday, Feb. 13 -Dl Love, 
a great time to

In person -$5 Sue, Staypufl, and II ciBIDy Oley Due to my "careteunesa"(l'd hate to think Byphone-$3 
getPenoaal

IOIT1eOI'le stole them), I k»t my brown Nf· Nextto "God,·· "'love" is the word molt Order yours In the Dining H• SMC FRESHMEN SKI TRIP ling glovee at the new pool locker room mangled in every language. At Lunch Sunday thru Wednesday FEB. 15TH Thoae who bel/eve lfe can be aummed last week. Pleue call 3810 If you have 8-4 up in an endlea aeriN ol quafN from found them. Thanks. God wiM love you for • Richard Bach. Sign Up At SMC 6-91n Any Dorm $5 Non· TM Brtclge Acroaa Forever or TM 
Ust bring 11hls coupon it. lltelrtdge Acroea Forevar lt'a Coming!! It's Coming! Refundable Depoeit Required NO Friends Singer "'e dNtined to mHI with life·a 
The ObRruer and lea!u.t

SMC Sophomore Are Welcome! rev~ edition. In hell there is no mulic-an agonizing s-thean 
cents off your night that never ends as aonglea • 1 S~t1!! HeWIInw....,.,._l 
ldasa/l'led ad ordB.

LOST: Gold necklace with 1 cr!* in I shattered violin. Feb. 14th 9-tam A rich alumnus needl2 tickets (lludent or heart. somewhere near North Dining Hall. It's Coming'! It's Coming!! GA) for the Dayton game in March. He's ~pan per orde(order In­It's very important to me! If found. piMie ·Galvin MiNer, 
an erqneer willing to pay big buc:bto­Sean, 
call Kym, 2147. us pound the Flyers into the court! Did you ever conaider that one might al­total days ad Is 
75 TO STAY AUVE ready be Mving thai reviled edition? ~ uplres LOST: NAVY BLUE LADIES" COAT. MIS. PUFFY: Call Mary Elen II 283-3855 01' leave a Maybe you'l have a chance too wh«l you TAKENLY TAKEN AT TRI·MIL BALL. Thankl for the amiln ... R.T.P. rr-.ge at 239-5303. leave the protection ot Noire Dame. 13, 1986. 
PLEASE CALL 28-4-5532. T.B. 
A defender ol Bach 

The ND men's swimming team will travel to 
Chicago tonightfor a meet with the University ofIllinois (Chicago). Tne meet is scheduled to begin at 4 p.m. -The Obseroer 
An ND-SMC swim meetwill be held tomorrow at 
7 p.m. in the Rolfs Aquatic Center. The meet was originally scheduled to take place at the Rockne Memorial Pool. For more in­formation call Mary Beth Dominello at 284-5548. ·The Observer 
WVFI Sports,AM-64, will broadcast the NO-Fordham bas­ketball game tonight at 7:20p.m.. Pete Pranica and Marty Strasen will handle the play-by-play. "Speaking ofSports", with special guest and head coach of the ND fencing team, Mike DeCicco, will follow the basketball game at 10 p.m. -The Observer 
Synchronized swimmers are asked to attend an organizational meeting Thursday at 6:30p.m. in the classroom ofthe Rolfs Aquatic Center. Anyone interested is welcome to attend. For more information call 283-5983. -The Observer 
A campus tug-of-war contest is being or­
ganized by the NO Promotions Dept. and Lee Jeans. Dormitory and class competitions will be held. Interested groups should begin to assemble teams. For more information call Kevin Lennon at 239­6440. -The Observer 
An interhall track meet wm be held by the NVA on Wednesday, Feb. 19. For more information call NVA.-The Obser­ver 
Weekend group rentals for the Rolfs Aquatic Center are now available through the NVA for ND and SMC groups. For details and rates call NV A at 239-5100. -The Observer 
The NVA Century Club will give you a free t-shirt just for working out. Pick any activity and fill out a pledge card at the NVA office in the ACC. When you reach your self-proclaimed goal you can redeem your log book for the free shirt. For more informa­tion call NVA. -The Observer 
Irish 
continued/rom page 16 
to continue their favorite style of pia~ this season -pounding it inside to get the points or the foul. The Irish rank behind only Michigan and Syracuse, a team they outrebounded in Saturday's victory, in rebound margin. They should be able to keep this statistic up against the smaller 
Rams. 
One thing the Irish must guard against is a letdown. Feelings ran high after Saturday's game, but the Irish must keep their mind on the game at hand. This may be harder than it seems with Duke lying in wait on Sunday. 
IRISH ITEMS · lbrough Satur­day's game, David Rivers continues to lead the team in scoring with a 
16.1  average... Ken  Barlow main­ 
tained  his  .909  free  throw  
percentage  with  a  6-of-7  perfor­ 

mance at Syracuse. Barlow also leads the team in rebounding with a 5.2 average. 


The Observer Tuesday, February 11,1986 -page 1 0 
Strategy plays a part in East's All-Star win 
DALLAS -Strategy usually plays a small part of AU-Star games in any sport. Coaches tend the let the players display their talent the best way they can. 
But Sunday's NBA AU-Star clash at Dallas proved to be an exception as Eastern Conference Coach K.C. Jones found a winning combination with one center, three forwards and Detroit guard lsiah Thomas. 
With center Moses Malone of Philadelphia, Boston forwards Larry Bird and Kevin McHale, forward Buck Williams of New Jersey and Thomas on the floor together with less than four minutes left, the East trailed 128-1 21. 
"We tried to get a mismatch wherever we could," Jones said. "We let lsiah bring the ball up and find the open man. When we were down with three minutes to go, I thought it was over. But we gotgreat efforts from Moses and Buck, and I liked the effort by Mr. Thomas, too." 
The one-guard East offense out­scored the West 18-4 down the stretch to win the 36th NBA all-Star game 139-132. 
Thomas, who won his second All­Star Most Valuable Player award, had 10 assists and scored 12 of his 30 points in the fourth quarter, includ­ing four free throws during an 8-0 spurt that put the East in front to stay. 
In addition to Thomas, the other four East players on the floor at the end were the team's biggest con­tributors. 

Malone scored seven of his 16 points in the final period and added 13 rebounds. 
Bird had 2 3 points and seven steals, Williams 13 points and seven rebounds and McHale eight points and 10 rebounds. 
"Moses got some key rebounds, Buck had a big tip-in (with 58 seconds left to make it 135-132 ), and Bird was Bird," Thomas said. "I think we were pretty strong at the end with four big guys on the floor. Bird is interchangeable. He handles the ball so well." 
"Considering the talent we had on this roster, I was a little surprised to be used as much as I was," said Wil­liams, who played 20 minutes. "I was especially surprised to be there late in the game." 
The close game was a fitting climax to a momentous weekend that saw 5-7 Spud Webb of the At­lanta Hawks, the smallest player in the NBA, win Saturday's slam-dunk championship with three perfect scores in the final round. That came after Bird won the first-ever three­point shooting championship by hit­ting 18 of 25 long-distance shots in the finals. 
"This was one of the best All-Star games ever," said West guard Earvin "Magic" Johnson of the Los Angeles Lakers, who dazzled a sellout crowd of 16,573 with 15 assists, many of them on blind passes. 


Becker and Graf· win in Lipton International 
A.t8oclated Press 
BOCA RATON, Fla. -West Ger­many's Boris Becker and Steffi Graf weren't sharp last night, but they were good enough to win their opening-round matches in the 1.8 million dollar Lipton International Players Championships tennis tournament. 
Becker, the 18-year-old reigning Wimbledon champion and seeded fourth in this Grand Slam-sized tour­ney, won a hard-hitting battle with Tom Nijssen of the Netherlands 6-3, 7-5. 
The 16-year-old Graf, seeded second in the 128-player women's singles, found her lost stroke early in the second set and rebounded to score a 1-6, 7-5, 6-1 victory over Melissa Gurney. 
Scott Davis, a surprise finalist in this two-week tournament last year, ~nd Andrea Jaeger, once ranked third in the world, were opening­day losers. Wolfgang Popp of West Germany ousted Davis 6-3, 3-6, 7-5, while Jaeger fell to Ann Hendrick­sson 6-7,6-2, 6-2. 
In other night women's matches, 13th-seeded Stephanie Rehe beat Carina Karlsson of Sweden 6-3, 6-3 and Manuela Maleeva of Bulgaria survived a rocky start to stop Laura Arraya Gildemeister of Peru 4-6, 6-1, 
6-1. 
In the night men's matches, No. 20 David Pate slipped past Terry Moor 6-1, 6-3 and No. 24 Aaron Krickstein won when Goran Prpic of Yugoslavia retired with a knee injury while trailing 4-0 in the first set. 
Becker had more trouble with Nijssen, a qualifier, than most would have expected. But he said he wasn't surprised at the tough match. 
"I didn't play a tournament for three weeks," Becker said. "I wasn't in the right position to hit my shots. I didn't really have a weakness, I just didn't hit some shots." 
In her victory over Gurney, Graf changed from a baseline game and began attacking, moving to the net, with the score tied 2-2 in the second set. She lost that game to fall behind 2-3, but then ran off three straight 

love games to take control of the match. 
Davis lost to Tim Mayotte in a five­set struggle in last year's final. Things have changed a lot in the past I 2 months for Davis, a 23-year-old from Santa Monica, Calif. 
"Obviously, I've dropped a lot since last year," Davis said. "I wish I could be in the finals every week, but lately I haven't been playingvery well." 
Davis argued with the umpire over several line calls, but he refused to take anything away from Popp's victory. 
"He played very well," said Davis, who was seeded 16th here. "He doesn't have a big game, but he makes you play every point." 
The full afternoon of tennis on ll courts at Boca West featured only a few mild upsets, but the fans were thrilled that one of them was by the resort's touring pro, Tim Gullikson. 
Gullikson· edged 27th-seeded Heinz Gunthardt of West Germany 7-6.7-6. 

Thf' ot-rv.-r/AP l'ttolo 

julius Erving (6) ofthe Philadelphia 76ers is shnum in action earlier this season. Erving and his teammates on the Easten1 Con­ference All-Starsquad beat their Western Conference rivals in Sun­day's contest, 139-132. Details on the game appear in tbe story at left. 
Dowhower keeps his eye on three Big-10 quarterbacks 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS Indianapolis Colts coach Rod Dowhower says he has his eye on three Big Ten Con­ference quarterbacks for the April 29 draft. 
The three are Jim Everett of Purdue, Chuck Long of Iowa and Jack Trudeau of Illinois, Dowhower said yesterday. 
The coach said he may not use the Colts' first-round choice, which is No.6 overall, on any ofthe three, but added that he will give serious con­sideration to each of them prior to the draft. 
"Both Everett and Long are tall, have good arms, are accurate and mobile," Dowhower said. "They were very consistent in their play last season, are bright and have a lot ofability." 

Trudeau, who is recovering from knee surgery after being injured in a postseason all-star game, had trouble at first but finished strong last season. 
"At the moment, I don't see his knee creating any problems," Dowhower said. 
The coach said three or four veteran quarterbacks were also being considered before the draft, including Dallas' Gary Hogeboom. But, Dowhower added, "I don't know if bringing in a veteran quar­terback is the ultimate answer." 

Replace Lost, Damaged, or Discolored Lenses at a fraction of their Original Cost! 
*Daily Wear Lenses 
•Amsof 
•Amer1can 
Hydron •Aosoft 

•Bausch 
& Lomb •Cibasoft •Durasoft 


$41.93 pair 
*Tinted Lenses 
• 
Bausch & Lomb Natural Tints 

• 
Cibasoft Colors 


563.97 pair 
·~xte~~~~et~ w-L-• 
•AOSoltcon $57/pl 
•Bausch & Lomb $4.5/pr •CooperVisron Permalens $67/pr 
•CSIT $97/pr •Durasoft 3 $57/pr •Genes1s4 $55/pr 
•Hydrocurve $87 I pr 
IF YOUR BRAND IS NOT LISTED HERE. SEND A COPY OF YOUR PRESCRIPTION AND WE WILL SEND YOU A QUOTE 

Ir-------------,
Dare _ ___ 
I Dear Doctor Pieau !.end me a cop., or my tatest soft
I 
cont•tlllns prescr•pt•on Ptease complete
I 
th•l 1nd m••'•IIS aoon 11 poss•ble Yh•n•I you..,.,, mych 
I 
1---Pa=-,:-.•,, s.Qnal~rc~­
I 
....c ..... , 
I a .... d .... 
IR 
I IL----------­
1 ..
I o......... llltel•• Ol Coto-IR ---------­
:~~:::-.::.--------­
1n f ......""(!-··
I 
L : ~-:!:.·::.-s::~::-~:­
All lenses guaranteed first quality. and are supplie~ in t~e oriiJinal factory sealed vials. 
FOLLOW THESE 5 EASY STEPS 1 Acou•re your comprete contacllen:. 
prescrrpt•On 2 Complete the order ocrow 3 Make check rroney order or 
comp•ete cred•t card •nforma•on paya­ble to CLS •nc 4 En<.~ose name address & phone number wrtn order 5 Ma•l allrnlormal•on to 
Contact Lens Supply, Inc. 30650 Carter Rd. Cleveland, Ohio 441 39 216/248-2416 
·'Contact Lens Suppliers for 25 years. " 
Please send ______ pairs at oniJ __a pair. UND 
• 
Totwl for lenses 

• 
Sllipping 1 Handling _2_.0_0_ 


• Total 
lllave enclosed total payment in the following manner: 
dMck 
VISA 

(Personal Checks must be cleared prror to sh•pment) 
-..........________
....,__________ 
•-No sirlgle lens orders please. 
•We will keep oil prescriptions on file to. reorders. 


Spring Film Series .a .a ~ COIMU'liCIIIOn 6 IHfAIRf e. I H f R I R f  
The Department of Communication & Theatre in conjunction wtth The Kellogg Institute present the first of six films in The Latin American Film Series . -----------------------4 NICARAGUA: NO PASARAN [)ocumentorron Dovrs Bradbury focuses on the Nrcoroguon revolutron and rts struggle to surv1ve rn the face of massive U.S. economiC and mrlitory pressure. The lucid. onolytrcol ooorooch heightens the intense drama or the events that mark the struggle the donng 1978 raid that freed Sondinrsto leader Tomas Borge from pnson. the confrontatiOn between Pope ..k:Jhn Paul II and a crowd of chontrng N1coroguons.  PAISAN Six drfferent srtuorrons that ooprct reoctrons of the Italian people to lrfe rn wartime ~oly The frlm begrns rn Srcily and moves progressively north through ~oly to weave a complex prcture of the struggle ogornst tyranny. poverty and war. Mon.9:00 DESTRY RIDES AGAIN Marlene Dretrrch rn her famous role os a qurntessentrol donee holl grrl \'v'hose temper leads her to hrlorious physical and verbal clashes with the new sherrff (James Stewart). on easy going moralist who prefers exemplary tales [and exhibrtron of qurck draw talent) to gun oloy Tues. 7:30  
STAVISKY One of AlOin Resno1s' more recent mosterpreces recounts. through vonous witnesses· accounts. the climotrc ruin of a con-man turned internatiOnal finoncrer (Jern Paul Belmondo) Arr intellectually challenging, visually stunning film. Fri. 7:30 a 9:.t5  
All films are showr, in the Annenberg Auditorium in the Snite  
• 
90 • • of tlte lenses ordered are in our inventory and reacly to be sl!ipped in 74 ho.,.s. 



a .....a..a....g•z•ss................................ass.................. 


The Observer Tuesday, February 11,1986 -page 11 


Women 
Jordan hopes to return to lineup by Friday 
continuedfrom page 16 
once we got the ball inside on her she started to foul us." 
However, when Clark fouled out with 6:5 7 left in the game, things had already gotten out of hand. With the UIC bench only three players deep, the change in tempo took its toll on the Flames. The Irish started to spread out UIC's zone and pass through it at will, wot;~ng the ball into forward Lavetta ·Willis and guard Lynn Ebben. 
Associated Puss 
CHICAGO -The Chicago Bulls won't know until later this week ex­actly when ailing Michael Jordan will return to the lineup after a 3 l /2-month layoff, a Bulls spokesman said yesterday. 
jordan, who broke a bone in his left foot in Chicago's third game of the season, was seeing a doctor in Eugene, Ore., yesterday and would be consulting with another specialist today in Cleveland before reporting back to the Bulls' physician, Dr. john Hefferon, said Tim Hallen, a spokesman for the Na­tional Basketball Association club. 
"Then we'll compare notes and make a decision," said Hallen. 
jordan had said he was hopeful he could play Friday against the Indiana Pacers or Sunday when the Dallas Mavericks play in Chicago. 
But Bulls General Manager Jerry Krause said all three doctors would have to say jordan's foot is ready. 
"If one of those doctors says it's not ready, then he won't play," Krause said in Dallas Sunday. 
jordan, the NBA's Rookie of the Year last season, told reporters he was cenain the Bulls would make the playoffs ifhe comes back healthy and plays the rest of the season. 
"I know what I can do," he said. "I won't let this team miss the playoffs." 
The Bulls, sorely missing Jordan's many talents, are suffering with a 17­34 record, but trail the Cleveland Cavaliers by only two games in the race for the NBA East's final playoff berth. 
Chicago has 31 games remaining. including tomorrow night's 76ers game at Philadelphia. 
jordan said he felt at practice last week that his left calf was getting stronger. 
"Everything felt normal at practice," he said. 

Volleyball Club faces three rivals at home this week 
Deep in the confines of the ACC there exists a dark secret which only a few have witnessed. Those who have ventured into this "pit" have seen the awesome spectacles ofsets, smashes and kills. They have watched tall, powerful warriors destroy the likes ofWolverines and Razorbacks. 
Now everyone can discover this dark secret as the men's 
Volleyball Club will attempt to destroy three foes in the 
ACC pit this week. Tomorrow night the Irish will face Cal­
vin College at 7:30, followed by Purdue Friday at 7:30, and 
Wisconsin Saturday at 1 p.m. 
Notre Dame has the distinction of being the only vol­
leyball club in the NCAA competing as a varsity team. This 
has helped the team schedule meets against some of the 
strongest teams in the nation. 
For example, the Irish traveled to Columbus, Ohio this 
past weekend to participate in the Ohio State Tournament. 
The team played very well, making it to the semifinals, 
along with three teams ranked in the top 20 in the country. 
In the first match on Saturday, Notre Dame faced the 
University ofArkansas. After dropping two ofthe first three 
games, the Irish rallied to win, 1 5-12, 6-1 5, 7-15, 15-I I, 
15-7. 
"Overall we played pretty well, but our passing broke 
down and we made way too many service errors," said 
Head Coach Bill Anderson. "We have a habit of dropping 
down to our opponent's level, but we eventually snap out 
of it." 
Mark Trautman gave his usual fine performance as he registered 29 kills in 72 attempts. Jeff Westrich and Mike O'Grady also played well for Notre Dame. 
The team was immediately pressed into action after the Arkansas match as it met East Stroudsburg State (Pa. ). Ranked 14th in the nation, East Stroudsburg rolled over a weary Irish squad, I 5-4, 1 5-8, I 5-9. 
Pete Gegen 
Club Corner 


On Sunday the Irish found themselves in the semifinals against the host Buckeyes. After running up a lead of8-4 in the first game, Notre Dame dropped the game 1 5-12. Again in the second game the Irish ran up a lead only to drop the game 1 5-11. Finally Ohio State took control of the final game, winning 15-7. 
"It's the best I've seen our team play," said Anderson. "We played together and up to our potential. It was a tribute to the players that the Ohio State coach kept his top players in the entire match." 
• 

On Saturday the Gymnastics Club's women's team traveled to Valparaiso, Ind. for a dual meet against the Crusaders. The Irish performed well, but came up shon againSf; a strong Valparaiso varsity unit. 
Cheryl Sydow finished founh in the all-around for Notre Dame, She took third in both the vault and the beam, and she placed fifth in the floor exercise. Michelle Broussard was the next gymnast to place for the Irish, taking sixth overall. She finished fourth in the uneven bars and sixth in both the beam and the vault. 
"Overall we did well," said Club President Jim Ciesil. "Cheryl and Michelle did alright, but they should perform better in the upcoming meet against Purdue." 
The meet against Purdue will take place this Saturday at 2 p.m. at the Angela Athletic Facility. Both the men's and the women's teams will compete as they hope to sweep the Boilermakers. 
• 

The Ski Team wrapped up its regular season schedule with a meet at Caberfae this past weekend. john O'Donovan skied well for the men, finishing second in the slalom and third in the giant slalom, and Chris Simonet took seventh in the slalom. 
Both the St. Mary's and the Notre Dame women's teams raced only three skiers each, as this meet was not sig· nificant in the regional qualifying. Maureen Connaughton took third in the slalom and eighth in the giantslalom for St. Mary's. The Irish were led by Laurie Shea, who took seventh in the slalom and founh in the giant slalom, and Jane Heisel, who placed sixth in the slalom. 
As of yesterday, both the men's and women's teams of Notre Dame had qualified for the regional meet which will be held this weekend at Iron Mountain in the upper penin­sula of Michigan. The St. Mary's team had not yet received official word. 
• 

And finally, the Squash Club has collected several im­pressive performances through the first halfofits season. 
William Mapother won the "D" division singles at a tournament in St. Louis, and he also advanced to the semi­finals of a tournament in Chicago. In Indianapolis, Sanjay Dalal finished second in the "D" division singles and Chaitanya Panchal advanced to the quarterfinals in the "A" division singles. 
As a team the Squash Club beat Michigan and lost to Purdue. The team still has a dual meet against Miami (Ohio) and a triangular meet against Purdue and Illinois upcoming. Finally, the team will return to Indianapolis to attempt to qualify for the national tournament. 


The Observer Tuesday, February 11,1986 -page 12 

Men's interballleague beats up; Two squads remain undefeated 
By DAVE MCGAREL said. "It helped us when they Alumni (5-1 ) captured sole Sports Writer switched from a zone to man-to­possession of second place while man because Hardek had a size Dillon fell to 5-2. Grace moved to 4­
As the end of the regular season advantage on his man." 2 with a 72·59 victory over the O.C. draws to a close, only two teams Keenan (4-2) kept its playoff Bombers. The Bombers beat Carroll remain undefeated in the men's in­hopes alive by whipping Stanford Vermin 67-48 in their other contest terhallleague. Flanner I, a member 61-50. Grace bounced back from the this past week. of the Big Sky division, and Morris­Flanner loss to rout Cavanaugh 72­sey of the ACC division both sport 43. St. Ed's beat O.C. Crime 61-54 
Dillon II tuned up for the Sorin 

unblemished records. Previously and Zahm slipped past the Crime 54­
game with a 72-61 win over the Fis­

undefeated Sorin (Big Ten leader), 52 in other Big Sky action this week. 
her Stingrays. The Dillonites then 
however, fell from the ranks of the 
proceeded to upset the Sorin team

Behind the leadership of Steve
undefeated with an upset loss to Dil­
by a 49-48 margin. Playoff-bound

Treacy, Morrissey rolled to its fifth 
lon II. 
Sorin lost its quest for an undefeated

vic tory without a loss by defeating
Flanner I clinched its division by season and fin ished the regular

the O.C. Bombers 56-41. The most
edging past Grace by a 62-60 mar­
season at 6-1. Dillon II upped its

impressive team in the ACC,
gin. Flanner built a I 0-point halftime 
record to 5-1.

however, was the Alumni I squad.
lead and then saw it disappear as 

Alumni went on a scoring binge
Grace canned four straight baskets Sorin captain Pat Collins was up·

versus Flanner II to win easily, 82­
at the start ofthe second half. 
set at the loss.

60. Two nights later, Alumni bested 
Both teams continued to ex­"They played very well·and were
Dillon I by a 78-53 count. 
change baskets until Scott Hardek more enthuiastic than us, said Col· finally clinched the victory for Flan­Kevin Laracey led Alumni with 16 lins. "We didn't really come to play. ner on a layup basket with :09 points against Flanner II while cap­We are looking forward to the showingon the clock. Grace fell into tain Ken Schuermann tallied a game playoffs and another shot at Dillon." a second-place tie with Stanford at high 20 points versus Dillon. 5-2 while Flanner moved to 7-0. 
In other Big Ten action, Pangborn Flanner coach Eric Grasberger "We were a lot bigger than Flan­edged Howard 43-42, Holy Cross was glad to walk away with the vic­ner and that was the diJJerence in beat Alumni II 65-56, and then 
tory. the game," said Schuerman. "The crushed Pangborn 61-43. Alumni II "Wes Shorter (20 points) had a Dillon game was close for three bounced back to make the Stingrays' great game for us but I think Grace quarters and then we really out­week a miserable one, winning 65· was really cold from the floor," he scored them in the last period." 59. 
Gillen lives hectic life as new coach ofvery successful Xavier squad 
Associated Press said. "Then they go their own way. Ironically, Gillen stresses the Every day that goes by, I'm missing need for a family atmosphere on the 
CINCINNATI -Xavier University part ofthat. When it's gone, it's gone. team. basketball Coach Pete Gillen is That hurts." "That seems to be the motto for a paying a high price for his team's few teams," Ginnie said. "Sometimes success, enduring separation from Home for Gillen is a dormitory they forget their own families. When his wife and young child while room with white walls and empty we didn't have a child, it wasn't too leading Xavier to a 1 7-4 record in his boxes. His diet consists of dough­bad. But now that we do, I feel Peter first season. nuts for breakfast, a fast-food is watching everyone else's child 
Gillen was an assistant coach at cheeseburger for lunch and a salad grow up and missing his own." Notre Dame before Xavier hired him or sandwich at a suburban res­to replace Bob Staak last August. His tam-ant for supper. Gillen said he's working so hard so wife, Ginnie, and their 2-year-old he can remain a head coach. son, Brendan, are back in South A week ago, he planned to visit his Bend, Ind., waiting for their house to family. But Ginnie wasn't feeling "One reason I want to work so sell. well, so he stayed in Cincinnati, at­hard is I want to survive," he said. 
Gillen hasn't seen his wife and son tended Mass, ate at a fast-food res­"Some people may want to win the since Christmas. taurant, made recruiting calls from whole thing. I want to survive, to "When you have children, God his office and then watched films in keep away from being on the street, lends them to you for 18 years," he the locker room until1 a.m. getting fired. 


Sheehan captures Sarasota Classic 
Associated Press under-par 279 on the 6,124-yard The triumph in the rain-delayed Bunt Tree Country Club course. event, worth $30,000, was SARASOTA, Fla. -Patty Sheehan Sheehan's 15th as a professional. It
Bradley and Inkster, a former col­
shot a 1-under-par 71 and fought off boosted her career earnings to
lege teammate of Sheehan at San
challenges from Juli Inkster and Pat n,134,736 and marked the first
Jose State, shot 69 and 72,
Bradley to successfully defend her time a player has repeated as cham­
respectively, to wind up with four­
title yesterday in the $200,000 pion in any LPGA event since she
day scores of6-under-par 282.
LPGA Sarasota Classic by three won the Henredon Classic in 1983 strokes. Stephanie Farwig carded a 73 and and 1984. 
Sheehan, who led the entire way finished four shots off Sheehan's The winner's round -her second and became the first player to win pace at S-under-par 283. Becky Pear­straight 71 after scores of68 and 69 this 11-year-old tournament twice, son, Lori Garbacz and Beth Daniel in the first two rounds -included finished with a 72-hole total of 9-followed at 4-under 284. four birdies and three bogeys. 
ANTI-VIOLENCE VOLUNTEERS 
IMiflle,.,......,.--· 
..-...--. 





---· 

---r.w.­
..-.~-·
...,_
,_,,( ..... 
c:.aa,.-.....
,___......,,..D. 
11 a
.... 
The Proof 
Is In 
the Taste! 

Open Mon-Sat 11 ••

s-•P• 
Plzza-8andwichea-Salads Beer& Wine 
277-2020 Loe•tH I• 8oae,.ad (N..t to a-ci·U• 

IMPRESS THAT SPECIAL PERSON! 
Give them a suntan AND an acu-massage 
BED 10 visits $39.00 

NEWt Acu-massage bed 
1 visit $4.50 

$3 per 15 minutes 
BOOTH 20 visits $39.00 

Buy 3 visits, get one free 
1 visit $2.00 

Call 277-7026 
J.M.S. PLAZA 
4609 Grape Road






1M-HAVJ6 
Mlsnawaka 


"lbr ~t4P Photo 

Spud Webb of the Atlanta Hawks is shown dunking in, Saturday's NBA Slam-Dunk contest. The 5-7 Webb ended up u•i 1-' ning the contest. The story below details the success of the NB 4 All-Star weekend which took place in Dallas. 
NBA gives praise to Dallas for excellent All-Star game 
Associated Press Reunion Arena had successive sellouts of 16,573 fans on both days 
DALLAS · The first National Bas­of the All-Star extravaganza. ketball Association All-Star weekend On Saturday, the Old-Timers to take place in Texas has convinced Game, the long distance three-point NBA players and officials that the shootout, and slam-dunk contests state where football is king is learn­drew a jammed house. ing to appreciate their sport. The Slam-Dunk day tickets were 
priced at $5 but scalpers were as­

"The people in Dallas have 
king as much as $20. One scalperliecome knowledgeable basketball even tried to sell one to Commis­fans," said Kareem Abdul-Jabbar sioner David Stern.

after the East's 139-132 victory over On Sunday, the All-Star game tick·the West at Reunion Arena. "They ets were $37.50 each. Scalpers were
have come years."  a  long ways  in  a  few  selling some for $50 and up. Mavericks officials made sure the  
The NBA awarded the game to the  NBA visitors got  a  taste of Texas.  
expansion Dallas Mavericks in only  There  were  armadillo races and  a  
their sixth season in the league, the  real live Brahman bull in the bal­ 
first time the All-Stars had come to  lroom  at  a  country and  western  
Texas.  party Friday night.  
The older Houston Rockets and  On Saturday night, Texas legend  
San Antonio Spurs have yet to host  Willie Nelson sang some of his clas­ 
the game.  sics, including "Blue Eyes Cryin' in  
"This is a sophisticated city and  the Rain" and "On the Road Again"  
the fans this weekend got a chance  for  a  packed  Convention  Center  
to see the sites," Abdul-Jabbar said.  crowd.  
"This was a great opportunity. Bas­ "It was a great weekend," said Los  
ketball is played more than any ot­ Angeles Lakers Coach Pat Riley, who  
her sport. It is the national sport."  coached the West All-Stars.  

Wygant Floral CO.Inc. 

Rem••••ller Your Valentine With Flowers From 

Wygants 
Free JJ.IIveey to ND and 5MC 

233·3354 
Order Early! 
W • also wlr• flowers worldwid• 
(member FTD and Telefloral) 



.......................a........a.................................................................... 
The Observer Tuesday, February 11,1986 -page 13 





-, 
·~ 
.... '.·.·.··
~~w 

... ·\.A 
Georgia Tech guard Mark Price (25) shoots over Duke guards David Henderson (12) and Tommy Amaker (4) in action earlier this season. Notre Dame tunes up for its game with Duke on Sun­day with a cqntest against the Fordham Rams tonight. Denuis Cor­rigan previews the game on page 16. 

Don't be Dull on Valentine's Day 
Send your valentines in an Observer display ad *Pictures •graphics *your own wording deadline to submit display ads for February 14th Issue Is 1PM February 12th ~--Call239·5303 tor details. 
Women's tennis team jumps to 3-0 following weekend tournament 
By TRISH SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team set a few JOals before the start of the 1986 8pl'ing season. Some of the obvious goals were to improve upon its record oflast season and to gain a berth in the NCAA tourna­ment. After this weekend's past per­formance, it seems that the Irish are on their way. 
The squad traveled to Springfield, Mo., where they took on Southwest Missouri State, Oklahoma and Kansas State. According to Head Coach Michele Gelfman, it was probably the toughest season opener she could have scheduled. 
"I knew that this was a tough way to open the season, but I felt the girls would be ready," said Gelfman, the 1985 North Star Conference coach ofthe year. "All through practice the week before the intensity level was high, so we had a good feeling." 
The Irish certainly kept that inten­sity going as they handily defeated each opponent. The team took on the Sooners first, taking them by a 

St. Mary's fencers improve to 9-7 
By GLOKIA ELEUTERI ~ 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's fencing team (9­
7) continoed to show its strength Saturday when it traveled to Chicago to meet Northwestern, Lawrence, Purdue, Ohio State and Case Western Reserve.. In their fourth tournament ofthe season, the Belles scored a 3-2 team record. 
The opening match was one of the slowest starts of the season. A loss of 14-2 was handed to the Belles by a strong Northwestern team. 
"I expected us to do a better job against Northwestern, but the team was more competitive than in previous meets," said Coach Mike Weeks. "It was a frustrating defeat for the team." 
Saint Mary's was able to rally to defeat Purdue ( 10-6) and Lawrence ( 14-2 ). The final bouts of the day ended in a split, with a loss to Ohio State ( 11-5) and a victory over Case Western Reserve ( 10-6 ). 

Cardinals name Gene Stallings to take over head coaching spot 

ST. LOUIS -Gene Stallings, a dis­ciplinarian and protege of coaching legends Paul "Bear" Bryant and Tom Landry, was named yesterday to succeed Jim Hanifan as coach ofthe St. Louis Cardinals. 
"I'm sorry Coach Bryant couldn't be here," Stallings said at a news con­ference where he was introduced by team owner William V. Bidwill. "I know somewhere he's smiling." 
The appointment of Stallings, an assistant to Landry with the Dallas Cowboys and a former head coach at Texas A&M, ended Bidwill's ar­duous search for a coach. Hanifan and his assistants were fired just 15 minutes after the Cardinals lost the final game ofthe 1985 NFL season to the Washington Redskins Dec. 21. 
The 1985 Cardinals posted a dis­appointing 5-1 1 record after being picked by some experts to to win the NFC East. Critics contended that, although Hanifan was well­liked by his players, he did not impose the discipline needed to win and make the playoffs. 
Stallings agreed with descriptions of himself as tough, but added that he abo can be compassionate. 
"There's nothing wrong in liking your players," Stallings said. "I've got a job to do and that is to make Mr. 
5-3 margin. Next came the Bears of 
Southwest Missouri, who fell to the 
Irish, 5-4. 'fhe final contest was 
against the Wildcats ofKansas State, 
whom the Irish downed by a 5-1 
margin. 

"As a whole, the team perfor-· mance was outstanding," added Gdfman. "The Jlirls came together as a team and rallied when we needed them to. We aren't quite at our peak yet, but we will be soon, I assure you." 
lbe highlights of the weekend came from the sparkling play of senior Mary Colligan (Fort Wayne, Ind.) and the doubles team ofsenior Susie Panther (Prarie Village, Kan.) and Michelle Dasso (Sunnyside, Wash. ). More than once over the weekend, these girls were called on to fight back after being down in the final sets. Colligan pulled together in singles action to provide key vic­tories that meant the difference for the team, while Panther and Dasso led a doubles crew that only lost one match in two days. 
"There were a few mental lapses out there," commented Panther. 
"There seems to be mental lapses tion was the toughest she too has occuring that cause the losses," said faced . Weeks. "These lapses are technical "Being able to travel with the ones and will hopefully receive tream and competing against tough greater concentration before the varsity players gave me a chance to next meet." see what I hadn't experienced yet," 
Weeks was very pleased with the stated Lavelle. overall showings. Individual records Weeks was very pleased with the for the day showed Mary Beth team's performance as well as with Proost with a 3-11 mark, while Ann Martin and Lavelle. Raney finished with nine wins and "Martin gave an impressive six losses. Decca Barnett added an 8-showing after only four months as 5score and Shannon Maughan broke novice," Weeks said. "She won three even with a 6-6 showing. matches and did a great job. 
Probably the most encouraging "Usa also fenced well. It is good to records of the day were those of know the novices are able to fill in as freshman Colleen Martin (3-4) and well as they did." Lisa Lavelle (0-7 ), since for both it Next weekend's competition will was their first varsity competition. be held in Cleveland, where the Both agreed the experience helped. Belles will be up against California 
State ( Pa. ), Overland, Cleveland 

"I did better than I expected to State and Carnegie Mellon. since I am only a novice," said Mar­"These teams are all young tin. "I know I gained valuable ex­agressive opponents," said Weeks. perience fencing against such "If individual consistencies are competitive teams." worked on, we should fence com­
Lavelle agreed that the competi-petitively." 
Bidwill glad that he hired me." Bidwill said he was glad the hunt was over. 
"It's been a long search and I've talked to a lot of fine football coaches and fine men," Bidwill said in introducing Stallings. "But you have to stop and make a judgment. And I think I've picked the best man for the fob." 
The 50..year-old Stallings, a native of Paris, Texas, became the Car­dinals' ninth head coach since the team moved here from Chicago in 1960. Bidwill confirmed that he gave Stallings a four-year contract, but he declined to disclose financial terms. 
"We had just driven 12 hours, got 
out of a van and had to play nine 
hours oftennis. But once we regined 
our form and started playing our 
game, we pulled it out." 
The Irish now have a three-week layoff before returning to regular­season action against Purdue on Saturday, March 1 at West Lafayette, Ind. Last year, the team easily .defeated the Boilermakers, 8-1, but the· 3-0 Notre Dame squad isn't chalking up another victory just yet. 
"I am very pleased with how the 
girls have played, but that doesn't 
mean we won't have to work for our 
matches," insists Gelfman. "This 
time off will provide some extra 
practice time and help us prepare 
for the start of the real bulk of our 
season." 
The first home match for the Irish takes place on March 7-8, when Notre Dame hosts a quadrangular meet against Bradley, Saint Mary's and Akron. Ifthe girls continue with the success they have already seemed to establish, it could mean more than just a berth in the NCAA tournament. 


The Observer Tuesday, February 11,1986 -page 14 
Hockey 
continued/rom page 16 
17:22 freshman Roy Bemiss added the third unanswered goal with an assist from sophomore Mike McNeill to cut Army's lead to 6-5. 
The clock soon became Notre Dame's primary opponent and in the final minute Coach Smith was forced to pull the goalie for added scoring ability. This enabled the Cadets to chalk up an easy goal for the 7-5 mar­gin ofvictory. 
Army clearly had more shots on goal than Notre Dame, as indicated by the 30 saves that Irish goale Tim Lukenda registered as compared to 19 for the Cadet goalie. 
In Saturday afternoon's action, Cadet junior Matt Wilson and senior Darryl MacDonald each scored twice to carry Army to a 6-3 victory 

.over Notre Dame. The triumph was the eighth straight for Army and raised its record to over .500 for theI first time this season. 
I 
Army led 2-1 at the end ofthe first 
period and went ahead 3-1 in the 

j: second on Wilson's first goal of the 
game. The lone first period goal for ! II the Irish was scored by freshman ! Brian Montgomery with an assist 
from-senior Dave Waldbillig. 
Elliott takes 

pole position 

at Daytona 
DAYTONA BEACH, Ra. -Bill El­liott picked up yesterday where he left off last year, running off to the pole position for the Daytona 500 with a fast lap of 205.039 mph. 


His Ford Thunderbird will share the front row with the Chevrolet Monte Carlo SS ofGeoffBodine, who was just behind at 204.545, a separa­tion on the clock of just .I 1 of a second. 
Elliott, who won both the pole and the race a year ago to begin an incredible season in which he dominated the superspeedways with 11 poles and 1 1 victories, just missed his own track qualifying record of 205.114. 
"I'm very surprised," drawled the red-haired driver from Dawsonville, Ga. "All the testing that everybody

! did over the winter, I thought we'd \ be behind." I A stock car record 24 drivers
}i 
qualified Monday at over 200 mph,

ii 
breaking the single session mark of 16 and the race record of 18, both set in time trials last May for the Winston 500. 
But the speeds were not as high as had been forecast before the first round of qualifying was postponed by rain on Saturday. 
Sterlin Marlin, son offormer racer Coo Coo Marlin, was the biggest surprise among the 54 drivers who made at least one of the two al­lowable qualifying laps Monday. 


Marlin, the 1983 Rookie of the Year who is driving this year for veteran car owner Hoss Ellington, was the third fastest qualifier at 204.355. His showing was good enough to 
.·i relegate Cale Yarborough, last year's 
:l outside starter on the front row and 
., '! a three-time Winston Cup cham­pion, to fourth at 204.1 51. Only the top two qualifiers Mon­
Waldbillig added a second assist when he set up Anquillare for a goal at 19:1 3 of the second period to pull the Irish within one, but Army scored just 12 seconds later to give the Cadets a 4-2 lead heading into the third period. 
Wilson, Army's leading scorer, gave the Cadets their biggest lead of the game when he teamed with Bob Nabb on a 2-on-1 break and scored his I 7th goal ofthe season. 
Notre Dame's McNeill made it 5-3 with an assist from Reilly with 59 seconds left, but MacDonald scored into an empty net 36 seconds later to close out the scoring. 
Irish goalie Marc Guay made 33 saves, while Army goalie Paul DeGironimo stopped 22 shots. 
While Coach Smith was obviously dissappointed with the two close defeats, he was still pleased with the effort that the team is putting forth. 
"The team worked hard and refused to quit," he said. "The third­

SObering~·.:
cal) save alife \ 
Think Before You Dr1nk 
-Before You Dr1ve ·-"·..·.. 
-...· 

Round trip.Anywhere wego. 
period scoring in both games is quite encouraging because it is in­dicative ofa good effort." 
"Our biggest problem has been our passing game. Without sharp passing, it is impossible to capitalize on an opponent's mistakes. Our pas­sing has led to somewhat ofa scoring slump and has consequently spelled defeat. But with so many freshmen and sophomores on the ice you can't really expect perfect passing." 
Notre Dame travels to Kent, Ohio next weekend to take on the Golden Flashes of Kent State. While the Irish defeated Kent State in two home games earlier this season, Smith is somewhat cautious about predict­ing two easy victories. 
"I am confident that we can beat Kent State again," he said, "but the last time we played them we had a full roster with the exception of Bob Thebeau. It could be a different game without Chapman and Badalich." 
day locked in starting spots in Sunday's Sl.4 million race. 
Time trials will continue Tuesday and Wednesday to help determine starting positions in Thursday's twin 125-mile qualifying races. Those races will determine starting posi­

! 
tions three through 30 for Sunday's 

' 
race. 


This Spring Break, if you and your friends then bt good for travel for 15 days from the date 
are thinking about heading to the slopes, the of purchase. beach or just home for a visit, Greyhound" can So this Spring Break, get a real break. take you there. For only $99 or less, round trip. Go anywhere Greyhound goes for $99 or less. 
From February 15 through April27, all you For more information, call Greyhound. 
do is show us your college student I.D. card Must ~nt a valid co~ srudmt I.D. 011d upon purdwe. !'oloO!hcrdJscounts apply Ttckeb are 
nontnnsfcrable and good for travel on Greyhound Lines, Inc., and other panKtpating amterS C.enam resmctions apply. Offer eff~~ 21151116. Offer linuted. !'101 valid mCanada.
when you purchase your ticket. Your ticket will 
I 




GO GREYHOUND 
And leavethe driving tous: 
Michiana Regional Airport, 4671 Terminal Drive, South Bend, IN, 287-6541 
1' I'J!!fl <ircvhound ljnes. Inc 


Tuesday, February 11,1986 -page 15 

Bloom County 

AND A..AT, t>\'f-



The Daily Crossw-ord 
ACROSS 1 Eme 6 At a distance 
10 Apartment in 
Soho 14 Womout 15 Term of 
respect 16 Fail 17 Fictional 
town 18 Harry James 20 Transmitted 21 Period 22 Sea arm of the 
Mediterranean 23 Pettysum 25 Deserves 27 Device used 
by musicians 30 Laborer of yore 34 Babilonia the 
skater 35 Straight 37 Easyjob 38 Mouths 39 Allow 40 Actor Vereen 42 Summer drink 43 Chin. dynasty 5 Tokyo formerly ~ 45 Decease 6 Concemlng 47 Female ruff 7 Spruce, e.g. 48 Shortly 8 Indonesian 49 Fipple flutes Islands 51 Iowa society 9 Send money 54 Unit of land 10 Strips blubber 55 Tex. players 11 Fr. author 58 Filbert Pierre 60 Nursery Item 12 Cruising 63 Isaac Stem 13 Seagull 65 Pleceof 19 He wrote 
music "The Raven" 66 Trifling 21 Challenged 67 lt. family 24 Factory 68-Pyle 26 Gum­69 Legal paper 27 Jots 70 Old cars 28 Lanza 71 Bean 29 Confine 
2/11/8631 WhatGene DOWN Krupa played 44 Knotty 56 Faction 1 Letters from 32 Consumerist 46-an end 57 Enamelware Athens Ralph 50 Zhlvago 59 Indians 2 Assistant 33 Blades 52 Miss Piggy's 61 Thought: Pref. 3 Instrument 36 Spa "me" 62 Swiss canton for Horowitz 41 Peterof 53 EdofTV 64 Bay In Japan 4 Kind of soup music 55 Greedy 65 Self 
.. 



Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
@ 1986 Universal Press Syndtcate 
-



Campus 

•12:00 
P.M. Brown Bag Seminar, "Refugees in Central America," Prof. Gilburt Loescher, Kellogg Institute, Room 131 Decio, Sponsored by Kellogg Institute 

•3:30 
P.M. -Computing Minicourses, Job Control Languages, and Displaywrite3, Part 1, Room 1 1 5 Computing Center 

•3:30 
P.M. -Graduate Seminar, "The En­gineering Properties of Polymers: The Inter­action Between Thermodynamics and Mechanics," Dr.James Caruthers, Purdue Uni­versity, Room 356 Fitzpatrick, Sponsored by Chemical Engineering Dept. 

•4:30 
P.M. Seminar, "Freshwater Gastropods: Distribution Patterns, Predation, and Interactions with Macrophytes," Dr. Christer Bronmark, Ohio State University, Room 283 Galvin life Sciences Center, Sponsored by Biology Dept. 

•7:00 
P.M. -Meeting, AIESEC, Room 220 Hayc.s-Healy 


Notte Dame Pork Loin Stuffed with Apples BeefPot Pie Lemon Grilled Sole Monterey Muffin Melt 


TV Tonight 
7:00P.M.  16  MASH  
22  Thrtt's Company  
:l8  Jeopardy  
7:30P.M.  16  Barney Miller  
22  WKRP in Cincinnati  
28  Wheel ofFonune  
8:00P.M.  16  TheA-Team  
22  Melba  
28  Who's the Boss  
34  Nova: "Growing Pains"  
8:30P.M.  22  Charlie &: Company  
28  Growing Pains  
46  Skylite Cavalcade  



Across town in the snake district 
•7:00 
P.M. -catholic Faith Program, "What Catholics Should Know About the Sacra­ments," Father Andre Leveille, Keenan­Stanford Chapel 

•7:30 
P.M. -Meeting, F.L.O.C. N.D. Support Group, Center for Social Concerns library 

•7:30 
P.M. -Men's Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Fordham, ACC Arena 

•7:30 
P.M. -Tuesday Night Fllm Series, "Destry Rides Again," AnnenbergAuditorium 

•8:00 
P.M. -lecture, "South Africa: The Struggle for Justice," Rev. Cedric Mason, Christian Institute of Southern Africa, Center for Social Concerns Building, Sponsored by Student Activities and African and Black Studies , -9:00 P.M. -Entertainment, "That's Enter­tainment," John Tyler, musician, Chameleon Room, Haggar College Center, Sponsored by Saint Mary's Student Government -9:30 P.M. -Mardi Gras Night, Duke's Bistro, Sponsored by Class of'87 



Dinner Menus 
Saint Mary's Veal Madeline French Dip Spinach Crepes Scalloped Potato with Ham 
· 
9:00P.M. 16 Riptide 22 CBS Tuesday Night Movie: 
"Vital Signs" 28 Moonlighting 34 Odyssey 46 LeseaAllve 
10:00 P.M. 16 Remington Stttle 28 Spenser: For Hire 34 Gold Dust 46 Dwight 1bompson 
11:00 P.M. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 


Order Valentine's Flowers Early 
------------------------------~~~~----~----------~--~~~--------....~............. 

Tuesday, February 11,1986 -page 16






SRorts 
Keys scores 24 to lead Notre Dame to 67-42 win over Dlinois-Cbicago 
By TERRY LYNCH And while those final statistics the all-American Keys, coupled with Sports Writer came out rather favorably for the DiStanislao's switch halfway Irish, things did not start out all that through the first half to a tight zone Trena and the Rebounds. smoothly. defense, that gave the Irish a seven­point lead at halftime. The transition 
No, they are not the latest thing to "We had to go at them and we game, which seemed out of sync in break into the popular music charts, didn't," explained Head Coach Mary the first half, finally gave the Irish the but if they were, the women's bas­DiStanislao about the early going. lift they had been looking for all ketball team from Illinois-Chicago "We were getting in some foul night to put away the Flames. would probably not find their music trouble, and right now we can't af. "In the first half we weren't run­particularly appealing. ford to get into foul trouble with our ning a lot, and when we saw that 
Trena and the Rebounds are in forwards," she said, referring to sop­they weren't getting back we started reality, however, the two main homore Kathy Brommeland's and to pick up the pace," said Keys. weapons that came out to dominate freshman Heidi Bunek's recent The Irish, noting the fatigue of the overmatched VIC team last night bouts with the flu. VIC's Clark toward the end of the at the UIC Pavilion in Chicago. The The Irish looked tentative at the first half, took the ball inside on the 
Irish surged to a 67-42 win on the outset, as passes bounced off the big center in the secnd half. 
.:.. t. 
strength of senior forward Trena hands of Irish players leading to tur­"It was pretty hard to get inside Keys' 24 points, while at the same novers. UIC hustled early on offense, tonight, but once we got inside, we time the Irish trio of Lynn Ebben, and their tight zone defense, cen­took it to them," commented Keys. .!• Lavetta Willis and Sandy Botham tered around 6'5" Donna Clark, held "She (Clark) can't move that well, so 
!) 
helped to outrebound the Flames by the Irish inside game in check.
1: 
a 55-33 tally. It was the offensive awakening of see WOMEN, page 11 
16-4 Irish look to improve record when they face Fordham tonight 
ByDENNIS CORRIGAN If that name sounds familiar, it's be­started every game for Head Coach Sports Writer cause McLaughlin is a former Irish Tom Penders' Rams. assistant coach under Phelps, coach­Joining Paterno in the frontcourt 
When Notre Dame and Fordham ing at Notre Dame from 1972 until is 6-5 senior forward and team cap­square offtonight at 7:30 at the ACC, 1977. He was also one of Phelps' tain Don McCormick, who averages the two teams will be sharing a com­asistants at Fordham. This is 6.4 points and 3.3 rebounds per mon history. First and foremost is McLaughlin's first year as athletic game. The Rams' center is 6-7James the fact that the two teams are director at Fordham after eight years Robinson. Robinson has averaged linked, in a sense, by Irish head as the head coach at Harvard. 6.2 points and 4 rebounds while coach Digger Phelps. starting 13 games. 
It is a well-known fact that coach­Finally, the two have an old family 
The Fordham backcourt is made

ing the Rams was Phelps' first stop in relationship in the form of the Ram's By PETE SKIKO "I was just proud as hell," said 
up by 6-5 junior Joe Franco (7.4

the collegiate ranks. This is the 15th leading scorer, Joe Paterno. While and GREG STOHR DeCicco. "He (Kovacs) proved to 
points, 3 7 assists)and 5-9 junior Eric

anniversary ofthe 1970-71 season in not related to Penn State's football Sports Writers me this weekend that he could hold 
Brooks (8.9 points, 82 assists). Fil­

which Phelps coached Fordham to a coach, Paterno is the brother of his own. He could conceivably be in ling the sixth-man role is 6-7
26-3 record and a third-place finish former Irish captain and standout Both Notre Dame fencing teams the top five in the country."
center/forward Frank Williams, who proved once that
in the NCAA East Regional, basketball player Bill Paterno. again they are 
leads the Rams in rebounding with

Fordham's best season ever. But by The younger Paterno, a 6-5 fresh­prime contenders for national cham­Another bright spot was junior 
an ·average of 4.2 a game while

the beginning of the next season, man forward, leads the 9-13 ( 3· 5 in pionships as they annihilated their sabre fencer Kevin Stoutermire. He 
scoring 4.9 points. 

Phelps had left Fordham for Notre the Metro-Atlantic Athletic Con­respective opponents over the was 8-1 for the weekend and is 21-1 
( 
Dame, a move many Fordham ference) Rams in scoring with an The Rams are coming off three weekend. for the year. 
alumni still haven't gotten over. average of 12.3 points a game, and straight appearances in the MAAC In a six-team meet in Evanston, "He's waiting in the wings," addedf The second bit ofpast history that has pulled down an average of 4.1 tournament finals, winning in 1983 Ill., the men outfenced Case Wes­DeCicco. "He's as good as some tarte /' the two teams share is Fordham's rebounds a contest. Paterno is the and losing the next two years to tern Reserve, 23-4; Purdue, 24-3; ofthe starters."I':I athletic director, Frank McLaughlin. only Fordham player who has lona, and five straight trips to the Lawrence University, 27-0; On the women's side, the situa­
NIT, losing in the first round each Northwestern, 24-3; and Ohio State, tion wasn't much dimmer. First-year year. The Rams have been hurt this 18-9. This left Head Coach Mike Head Coach Yves Auriol saw the 16­year by the loss of last year's leading DeCicco's Irish undefeated at 17-0. 0 Irish demolish Case Western 
h 
scorer, Tony Mcintosh ( 19.1 ppg. ), Over the last two years, Notre Dame Reserve, 15-1; Northwestern, 13-3; 
( 
1/ 
and playmaker jerry Hobbie. And is unbeaten in 44 consrcutive Purdue, 1 5-1; Ohio State, 11-5; and 
I 
( while Notre Dame leads the series regular season meets. Lawrence, 1 6-0. between the two teams, Phelps is DeCicco, in his 24th year as the Sophomore Molly Sullivan 'Yas looking forward to a competitive men's fencing coach, cited good 11-0 this weekend, and her overall ballgame. play, and not poor competition, as record is an impressive 35-3. 
"Our games against Fordham have the reason for his team's lopsided always been competitive," Phelps victories. DeCicco acknowledges that the says, "and you can credit Tom "Northwestern and Ohio State, as women are on the verge of national Penders who does a great job expected, had excellent fencers," prominence. preparing his teams. They always said DeCicco. "Two teams -Purdue "Our women's team is fencing 
jj come to play, and this year won't be and Lawrence are building magnificently this 
i any different. I'm sure it will be an programs." year,"commented Decicco. "There especially big thrill for Joe Paterno, One ofthe many highlights for the are four, maybe five teams, that are knowing his brother Billy played at men was sophomore foil fencer contenders to go to the NCAA's the ACC and was such an important Yehuda Kovacs. Kovacs, the first Is­(from the Midwest Region) and our part ofour success." raeli fencer in Notre Dame history, women have already beaten all of 
Given the the extreme height was 6-0 for the weekend, including a them." advantage, the Irish should be able win over Ohio State all-American "They should be the odds-on Sunil Sabharwal. DeCicco was, to say favorite to represent the Midwest in see IRISH, page 9 the least, pleased. the NCAA's." 

Hockey team loses two to Cadets 
By BOB KEMPER likewise sustained a shoulder separ­period. Notre Dame soon retaliated sports Writer lion in the first period of Saturday's with a goal at 12:35 when Chapman game. Both were to be examined fed fellow fifth-year senior Tim 
The Notre Dame hockey team suf­yesterday by an orthopedic surgeon Reilly for the score. Army again fered two tough defeats over the to evaluate the severity of their in­widened the gap to two at 3:42 of weekend in West Point, N.Y. The juries, and to see if and when they the second period. The Irish coun­Cadets of Army nipped the Irish, 7-5 will be ablt.: to return to the Irish tered when sophomore Mark An­and 6-3, in the first ever series bet­lineup. quillare took a pass from junior Rich ween the two teams. Army raised its Irish Coach Lefty Smith is some­Sobilo and scored at 11:5 5. 
,,.,. record to 12-11-1, while Notre what concerned that the absence of In the third period, Army needed
I .. 
Dame fell to 8-17-l. two-thirds of his starting front line only 24 seconds to re-establish its 
Possibly worse than the two may create a scoring drought. two goal lead, 4-2. The Cadets went notches in the loss column could be "Chaps was our leading scorer last on to add two more goals before the the loss of two key front-line players, season and Jeff has been very Irish would tally again. At 10:03 sop­
Tbc Oblcrvu~ l.acha fifth-year senior Brent Chapman and valuable on specialty teams, which homore Tom Moone scored with an 


Irishforward DonaldRoyal ( 15) ts sboum above taking the bali; seniorJeff Badalich. are involved in power plays and assist from Reilly. This was followed to the hoop in last week's loss atDayton. Coming offtheir btg win Badalich suffered a shoulder penalty-killing," said Smith. with a goal by Sibilo at 11 :03 on a over the weekend atSyracuse, the Irish hope to continue their win.. separation in the first period of In Friday night's game, Army feed from senior Greg Duncan. At ning ways against Fordham tonight at 7:30 at the ACC. Dennis Friday night's action, while Chap­jumped out to an early 2-0 lead with Corrigan previews tNcontestabove. ' man, a native of Agincourt, Ontario, goals at 5:10 and 6:30 of the first see HOCKEY, page 14 






