-----~-----~~~------~-----­

an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Saint Mary's to inaugurate Hickey president 
Hickey cherishes mission of Saint Mary's 
By MARGIE KERSTEN 
Saint Mary's f.dilor 
William Hickey, who will be inaugurated Sunday as the ninth president of Saint Mary's , said he would like to be remem­bered for enhancing and cherishing the values in Sc.mt Marys students.' 
After more than 25 years with the Col­lege in administrative and teaching pos­itions, Hickey was named president in February of last year. 
Upon his appointment Hickey said, To be asked to lead the institution that not only stands as one of the nations best umlcrwaduate colleges for women, but which has also provided me with so many personal challenges and rewards, is both an honor and privilege.' 
Hickey said he thinks the upcoming in­aunural weekend is something that goes along with the office (of president) -a new beginning lor the College. lve tried to remain emotionally detached, but I am now really getting more personally in­volved and excited.' 
More than $40, 000 has been spent on the various festivities surrounding the in­auguration and Hickey said the majority of the money was spent on food and the printing of invitations, tickets and signs. The College has a separate budget for the inauguration, Hickey said. 
He said because every student faculty member, administrator, staff member and alumna of Saint Mary's received an invititation, the College expects a full house in O'Laughlin auditorium for the inauguration. The auditorium holds ap­proximately I. 300. 
When plans were started for the weekend, Hickey said, the inaugural com­
see HICKEY, page 4 


SMC students recieve obscene phone calls 

By RACHAEL JAROSH 
Nnn~ Sl.t{{ 
Several students at Saint Mary's College have received obscene phone calls from a man claiming to be conducting a sur­vey, according to Richard Chlebeck, director of Saint Mary's Security. 
The caller has pretended to be surveying on the topic of parent­ing for the National Educational Association, Chlebeck said, add­ing the calls were similar to those received by Saint Mary's students last year. 
"Its likely that the same person is bothering Saint Marys stu­dents," said Chlebeck. 
One harassed student who re­quested anonymity, said the cal­ler began with questions regard­ing her age, hometown, and number of brothers and sisters. According to the student the cal­ler then began asking sexual questions. 
She said the caller asked how she felt about pre-marital sex and inquired if a man had ever seen her in the natural state, which she assumed to mean naked. 
"When I answered, its none of your business, he simply said Okay and went on. I should have hung up." 
The Notre Dame Security has not received complaints of similiar calls, according to secur­ity investigator Anne Schellinger. She said that last year an indi­vidual conducted a false survey over the phone, however. 
"The male individual would call and say he was conducting a sur­vey on grade school sex educa­tion," said Schellinger. She said the calls came from off-campus and could not be traced because the caller rarely harassed the same student twice. 
Chlebeck recently sent a letter to Saint Mary's students describ­ing the nature of the obscene calls and recommending steps to take against such calls. 
see PHONE, page 3 

Sunday activities to highlight weekend events 
By ANN KALTENBACH 
Assistant News f.ditor 
South Bend Mayor Roger Parent has proclaimed this weekend Saint Marys College Weekend in South Bend' in conjunction with the activi­ties surrounding the inauguration of William Hickey as the ninth president of Saint Mary's on Sunday. 
Sister Madonna Murphy, Chair of the College's Board of Regents, will install Hickey as President at 2:30 
p.m. Sunday in O'Laughin Auditorium. The public is invited to attend the event. A reception will fol­low the inaugural ceremony at 4 p.m. in the LeMans Courtyard. 
The weekend's events will begin at 5 tonight with a student dinner in the Dining Hall, where Hickey will speak momentarily at 7. Also during the dinner, Hickey will be presented a sculpture designed by Saint Mary's student Michele Chlebek, said Stu­dent Body President Jeanne Heller. 
Following the dinner, Heller said I 400 blue and white balloons will be released outside. Attached to each balloon will be a postcard. A student had the option of having her name printed on one of the postcards for donating 25 cents. 
The student whose postcard returns from the farthest distance by Oct. I will win a brunch for two at Tippecanoe Place Restaurant with Hickey and his wife. 
see PRESIDENT, page 7 

U.S. airliner hijacked in Pakistan 
Associated Press 
KARACHI, Pakistan -A Pan American jumbo jet was seized on the ground at Karachi airport early today by four uniformed men who fired shots in the air and then stormed the plane, demand­ing to be nown to Cyprus, of­ficials said. 
Aviation sources said Pan American World Airways Flight 73 was on a route from Bom­bay, India, to Karachi; Frankfurt West Germany; and New York. Pan Am spokes­woman Pamela Hanlon said in New York that about 280 pas­sengers and 13 night atten­dants were on board the plane. 
A U.S. consulate spokes­man in Karachi said, To the best of my knowledge there have been no casualties. 
Hanlon said Americans were aboard, but she did not know how many. The night was scheduled to arrive at Kennedy International Airport at 3:25 p.m. EDT today, ac­cording to the airline. 
We are aware of the reports and are monitoring the situa­tion, said Peter Roussel, a White House spokesman in California with the vacationing President Reagan. The presi­dent has been informed and is being kept updated on it by John Poindexter, the White House national security ad­viser. 
Hanlon said the Boeing 747 was reboarding in Karachi around 9 p.m. EDT yesterday when four armed individuals, dressed as security guards, boarded the airplane and demanded they be nown to Cyprus. 
The men told the cockpit crew, who had left the plane, to get back on the craft and prepare for take off, she said. The men, wearing blue uni­forms, drove out to the parked jet shortly after it landed, ac­cording to airport sources. The men fired several shots in the air and then rushed up 
the stairs into the plane, said 
the sources. 
One airport source, who 
refused to be identified, said 
the plane's crew managed to 
nee the aircraft after hearing 
the shots, but none of the pas­
sengers were able to get off. 
U.S. 
consulate officials said they were in touch with the 

U.S. 
State Department in Washington, but could give no other details. In Washington, State Department spokes­woman Deborah Cavin said she had no information on the situation. 


Security forces at the airport went on immediate alert and personnel armed with ma­chine guns and rines quickly sealed off the area of the tar­mac where the plane was parked for refueling. 
Officials at the airport refused to say if they were in contact with the men in con­trol of the plane, nor would they say if they had any idea who the men were or why they had seized the jet. 
.. 

~--------------------~~---..---~--~----------~---------------~,~------­
Friday, September 5, 1986 -page 2 The Observer 

Pre-Law Students


In Brief 

(Any Student Considering Law School) 
Attend 

An exhibit for the Saint Mary's lnagural Weekend will be held at the Upper Moreau and Hammes Galleries at the Col­
The Pre-Law Society General Meeting 
lege~ Admission to the galleries is free and open to the public~ 
Gallery hours during the Inaugural Weekend are Saturday 
from 1 to 5 p~m~ and 7 to 10 p~m~; Sunday II a~m~ to 5 p~m~ 
Mon., Sept. 8 at 7:30pm In Eng. Aud. 
-The Observer 

Dean Waddick will speak on: 

A 412-pound Polish sausage that its stuffers claim will feed 2, 000 people is reigning this weekend over the 13th annual World Kielbasa Festival in Chicopee, Mass~ The four-day ethnic festival with non-stop polka music annually attracts more than 50,000 people to this most Polish of the state's cities~ It began yesterday~ Undoubtedly this has got to be the big­
gest. said Jerry Patyka, vice president of the Chicopee Provi­sion Co~. which prepared the festival's King Sausage~ Well, maybe~ This year's King Kielbasa, which stretches 26 feet 3 inches, tops last year's 307-pound Chicopee effort by a con­siderable margin~ But a Milwaukee company last year claimed the record with a 425-pound sausage for a Polish Festival there~ -AP 
Of Interest 

Society and ethics will be the focus of today's Friday Forum at the Center for Social Concerns~ Speaking will be Father Edward Malloy, associate provost. from 12: IS to 1 in Room 
I 24 of the CSC building~ -The Observer 

A campus Bible fellowship will hold weekly Bible studies starting today at 6:30~ Discussion will focus on who is the true Christian~ A barbeque also will be held at I p~m~ Saturday at 19525 Pendle~ For more information, call 277-8471. -The Observer 
The Cassatt String Quartet. winners of last spring's Fischoff Chamber Music Competition in South Bend, will present a free concert on Saturday night from 6 to 8 P~ m~ in the Moreau Hall Little Theatre at Saint Mary's~ Everyone is welcome to attend the performance as part of the celebration of the Inauguration of William Hickey~ -The Observer 
The Knights and Ladies of Columbus will interview for new members Sunday night from 7 to 9, and Monday night from 
6:30 to 9 at the Knights of Columbus Hall~ -The Observer 
The Senior Class Mass will be celebrated by Father Jenke Sunday at 4 P~ m~ at the Grotto~ -The Observer 
The Anti-Apartheid Network is beginning its weekly vigils today at 12: IS P~ m~ on the Administration Building's steps~ The vigil will include news from South Africa, discussion, and prayer. -The Observer 
Today's picnic dinner at Green Field will feature a Meet Your Student Government theme with representatives wearing nametags. Those present will include Student Body President Mike Switek, Student Body Vice President Don Mon­tanaro, Student Activities Board Manager Frank Videger, and class representatives. -The Observer 

Weather 
Weather you like it or not. it's going to be cool and clear today. High in the mid­70s, low in the mid-50s. Tomorrow's high will be in the high 60s to low 70s. -The 



Observer 
Design Editor . ........ Kathy Huston Typesetters . ....... Chuck Papandrea News Editor . .......... Cliff Stevens Copy Editor . ... ~ ..... ~ Regis Coccia Sports Copy Editor .. ~ . Marty Strasen viewpoint Copy EditorMaura Mandyck Features Copy Editor ...... Ed Nolan Features Layout . ....... Karen Webb Typists ................ Ester Ivory ND Day Editor . .... ·~ .. Lynne Strand Photographer . ~ ...... Paul Oeschger 

Course selection, applying, financial aid, events planned, etc. 
Sponsored by the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Pre-Law Society Please Bring $4 Membership fee Freshmen Encouraged 



subscribe and save 25% Crimes of the Heart 
October 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 
Good 

December 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 


To Dance! 

March 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 

Macbeth 

April 29, 30, May 1, 2, 3 
'Jbr Oi>Krv~r ( 1·sPS ~9'1 l·•tlOII) "puhl,.hcd "onda\ through ~nda\· nn·pt dunn!( 
For subscriber information cal1239-5957, Weekdays 10-5
exam and vacation pcri<><ll>. lb~ ObKrv~r" puhl,.hed h\ the \ludcnt' of the I nh·c"il\ of ~otre LJamc and Saint Mar}~S Cnllt'!(<" ~ o&erv~r is a member of lb~ Assoclal~d Prrss. All repro<lunion ri~o:hr' art" 
rt'St''Ved. 


The Observer Friday, September 5, 1986-page 3 
Awareness of student rights is goal of Judicial Council 
By MARK MELLETT 
Staff Reporter 
"Students are not properly aware of their rights or of the function of the Judicial Council," said Coordinator Maria Cintron, speaking last night at the first meeting of the council this year. 
" The student body lacks a source that clearly explains what punishments are possible when a violation occurs and what can be done, said Cintron. 
Cintron said she thinks one of the major problems is that stu­dents don't know their rights. Cintron added that she wanted to publicize what students can do when they have a problem. 
"Using a $2,450 budget, the council plans to inform students 
of their  rights by publishing  a  
Student  Rights  Manual, "  said  
Cintron.  

"The manual will list violations, possible punishments and per­sons to contact if there is a prob­lem,"she said. Cintron added that 
Help the dp March of Dimes I 
the council plans to distribute the 
manual to each dorm room. 
"The ourpose of last night's meeting was to orientate mem­bers to the functions of the coun­cil, "said Cintron. She indicated that most of the 24 members who represent the dorms are new. 
In addition to better informing students of their rights, Holy Cross council member Paul O'Connell said the image of the council has to be improved. O'Connell said students see council members setting punish­ments and don't see them as there to help. 
To inform students of his rights and to improve the image of the council, O'Connell sugges­ted that the council change stu­dents' perception that members work only behind closed doors. 
O'Connell added that he plans to increase student awareness in Holy Cross by meeting with freshmen on a one-one-one basis. 

The Ohscrvcr/Jirn Carroll 
Field. While freshmen crammed, the cele­brated professor's name echoed throughout the campus. 
IF YOUR BOOKSTORE DOESN'T 
CARRY SHARP CALCULATOR& 




CALL AND COMPLAIN. 
Sharp calculators are designed to be first in their class. 
Our EL-533 financial calculator for example, has twenty memo­ries compared to just five for the competition. So it lets you do complex calculations like dis­

counted cash flow analysis. 
For those who prefer lab coats to pinstripes, there's 
our EL-506A scien­tific calculator. With its 10-digit display, direct formula entry and 93 scientific func­tions, it makes per­
forming even the most difficult calculations easy as pi. And because it's sleek, slim and stylish, you'll never look out of step as science marches on. 
The fact is, Sharp makes all kinds of ingenious little calcula­tors that can help get you through college. And help you pay for it. 
Because unlike college... they're surprisingly affordable. 
Calculators, Audio. AIV Equipment, Banking Systems. Broadcast Cameras. Cash Registers. Computers and Peripherals, Copiers. Electron1c Components. Electronic Typewriters, Facsimile. Med1cal Products, M1crowave Ovens. TeleviSions. Vacuum Cleaners. V1deo Recorders. © 1986 Sharp Electromcs Corporation. Sharp Plaza. Mahwah. New Jersey 07430 

FROM SHARP MINDS 
COME SHARP PRODUcrs~ 
Phone 
continued/rom page 1 
The letter cautioned against trying to be clever with obscene callers and advised students to hang up immediately upon hearing an obscene remark or improper question. 
Chlebeck also advised stu­dents who receive obscene or an­noying phone calls to report to the campus Security Office im­mediately. He said the Security Department will determine the nature of the call and, if neces­sary, place a tab on the phone to trace the call. 
Chlebeck said it was difficult to trace the calls due to the of­fender's practice of not harass­ing the same student more than once. 
Thanks toyou... itworks... forALLOFUS 
• UnllilldW'ay 
Z'e~ /M~ Sept.27~ 


LSAT 
~ 

S1gn-up ends on 9/11/86 

!KAPLAN 
STAHLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL ((HHR LTD. 
1717 r. South Bend Ave. South Rend, IN 466}7 Phone 219/272-41~~ 


~-----------­

Friday, September 5, 1986-page 4 
The Observe~ 
Hickey 
continued/rom page 1 
mittee asked, How can we design a program involving all groups of people? 
The program evolved the way it did because I and the commit­tee felt strongly about involving all constituencies of campus, Hickey said. We wanted things designed for specific groups of people including staff. faculty, administration and students, he said. 
Tonight. there will be a student dinner in the Dining Hall and at 9 there will be an All Student Party in Angela Athletic Facility. We wanted to involve the stu­dents in a very real way, Hickey said. He also said the staff of Saint Mary's is invited to a picnic to be held next Wednesday. The Sisters of the Holy Cross are in­cluded in the reception. -Saint Mary's seniors will be in­volved in the more formal part of the inauguration, Hickey said. Each senior has been invited to participate in the inauguration procession Sunday with the pres­ident. dignitaries and other col­lege administrators. A majority of the seniors are participating. he said. 
Hickey said the focus of his in­augural address will be to build on the rich tradition of Saint Marys as well as the strengths and strong assets of womens colleges." He said he believes the Saint Mary's experi­ence is unique and the total edu­cation is more than the class­room experience. 
The Church and the Age of the Laity will also be a focus of his address. adding his presidency is an exciting opportunity to devdop new models of govern­ing our institution. Because of the probable decline of the Sisters of the Holy Cross. there will be a need to share more re­sponsibility with laity, he said. The continued ownership of Saint Mary's by the Sisters of the Holy Cross is important to the continuance of Saint Marys as a Catholic institution. Their pres­ence (Sisters of the Holy Cross) guarantees their mission will indeed be carried out.· 
The sisters provide significant invited by Hickey include Sister Francis Bernard, the superior general of the Sisters of the Holy Cross; Sister Roseanne Schultze, Chair of the Board of Regents, who will give the benediction, and George Craig. the Clark pro­fessor of Biology at Notre Dame, who Hickey worked under for his doctorate. 
financial  and  spiritual support.  
Hickey  said.  He  added,  Saint  
Marys would  lose  much  of its  

Hickey first came to the Col­lege in 1960 as a biology instruc­tor. In 1969, he was the recipient of the College's Spes Unica Award, presented annually to honor a faculty member for ex­cellence in teaching and dedi­cated service. After his promo­tion to professor in 1970, he became Biology Department chairman in 1971. which he held until his appointment to vice president for academic affairs in May of 1972. 
After serving as acting presi­dent in 1974-75, he was named vice president and dean of fac­ulty. After the resignation ofPres­ident John Duggan, Hickey again was named acting president. 
Hickey grew up in 

Stroudsburg. Penn., and received his bachelor's degree I tit· Oh't'l\l'l.lilll (,urnll from King's College, Wilkes­
Toomey, shown here trying to raise their 
Barre, Penn. He earned master's 

mast and sail again.
and doctoral degrees from Notre Dame. 


AIR FORCE ALWAYS NEEDS MORE LEADERS. 
We're looking for pilots ... navigators ... missile-men ...engineers ... math majors ... people manag­ers ... doctors ... scientists ...journalists ... and more. And the Air Force ROTC program is a great way to get into a job like one of these which can help you improve your leader­ship ability and your professional competence. 
As a commissioned officer in the Air Force, you can be proud of the role you play in your community and the contribution you make to your country's security. You can know that you're doing a job of importance, a job with responsibility. 
The Air Force ROTC program offers a way to help you achieve these goals. As an AFROTC cadet. you'llleam about leadership, management, and more. You'llleam about bene­fits of being an officer later on, like an excellent salary, medi­cal and dental care, housing and food allowances, and 30 days of paid vacation each year. You'll discover a whole new world open to you in the Air Force. And you can get there through AFROTC. 
Look into it right away. You11 be glad you did. 

BOTC 
Gateway to a great way of life. 
Contact AFROTC at 239-6634 
character ir its ties with the IJII_,rlllll\1~1iii~--~~I1Mii~~-~!ln~Ririn~illi~~~ri~~--ri~--~n~•~ll~~~
Sisters of the Holy Cross were ·' 
not affiliated.' 
University President Father Theodore Hesburgh accepted an invitation from Hickey to present the invocation at the inaugura­tion, Hickey said. Other guests 
FAMOUS LAST WORDS FROM FRIENDS TO FRIENDS. 
"Atr• yu11 OK to dt·il•e!" "Whatx a.fi•w lwet'Nt" 
"/)irf .IJIIII hw~· tm IIIIlCh to r/t·iuJ.:t" "/'111 J)('l.ti•ctly.fiue." 
"AIY' .IJOII iu auy.~haJK' to dt•it•e(" "/'t~· twt~·r.fi'/t lwttet:" 
"I thiuk you't~· had a.fi•w tm 111auy." "Ytm kiddiu,l C'QII dt'it~· with III!J f'.IJC'X cloxed." 
"Ytm't'l' had tr)(I/IIIU'h todt'iuk, let 111e drive." "Nobody dr'ivex 111,11 car but 111e." 
DRINKING AND DRIVING 
CAN KI.L A FRIENDSHIR 


The Student Activities Board 
presents a Thanksgiving Vacation Package to 
N.D. vs. U.S.C. 


football Game 
Thursday, Nov. 27 -Sunday, Nov.30 
$.37<Yperson quad occupancy at the Hyatt incl. airfare, hotel, all transfers, game ticket $26&person --airfare, game ticket 

$50 deposit due Fri., Sep. 5 Balance due Sep. 30th refundable up to Oct. 28th 
Sign up Mon., Sep. I -Fri., Sep. 5 lower level Lafortune 2:.30 p.m. -4:.30 p.m. 
ONLY 125 PLACES ... Sign-ups end Fri Sept. 5th 

r---~~----------------------------~---------------------------------------~ 
Investigators seek suspect in cyanide-laced soup death 
Associated Press bution of the chicken noodle soup. 
RUNNEMEDE. N.J. -A man who Asbell described Denber. 27, died from cyanide-laced Lipton as basically a very easygoing in· Cup-A-Soup his mother bought dividual who worked as an to soothe his upset stomach electronics technician for RCA could have been a random vic· Corp. in Camden. tim, but investigators also "He had no problems with his looked yesterday for someone neighbors or his employer as far out to get him or the store. as we can tell," the prosecutor 
Everybody at this point is a said. suspect. the county prosecutor There have been no calls said. claiming responsibility or 
The death was the sixth from making threats, nor indication of product tampering this year, but any retribution against the store the first related to a food product or the individual, said Dennis since the wave of tamperings Wixted, the first assistant county began with cyanide-filled Tylenol prosecutor. capsules in 1982. Cyanide was found in the 
Camden County Prosecutor empty foil packet the victim's Samuel Asbell said there was mother picked from a garbage enough cyanide in the body of can and brought to the prosecu· Louis Denber to kill a horse and tor's office and in a second un· the case is being investigated as opened packet in the box, Asbell a homicide. He said no possibil­said. ity has been ruled out. however. The box, purchased at the 
Shop'N'Bag store in this south-

It all points to a product tam-ern New Jersey suburb about I0 pering. said Larry Hicks, a miles southeast of Philadelphia, spokesman for the soup's had been punctured and the en­maker. Thomas J. Lipton Inc., velope slit. authorities said. based in Englewood-Cliffs. No poison was detected in ap· 
He and the prosecutor said the proximately I 00 Cup-A-Soup tampering appeared to be iso· boxes with the same code num­
AI' f'holo 

lated and local, and did not ap· ber, 6·C·I3-GGF 8, pulled from
Thrown to Safety 
pear to have occurred during the the shelves of the store where Two-year-old Nicholas Burton soars to safety officer in the Dorchester section of Boston 
manufacture or company distri-Denber's was purchased. after he was thrown off the roof of a burning early Wednesday mornin~. building into the hands of a Boston police 
g Enjoy the great taste of ice cream 0 I
~----------------,
I g. without the guilt. Try gI
;,;.·, 
/-/ ..

t --.. ·... 18 YOGI'S YOGURT gl




Fat's 
1 ,, ,,~ Almost 1/2 the 1 1 ~ calories of ice creamI 1 
I 25cOff AnVmedl"m~oe~dl•h ~



iit Barbeque L
t. Rd. 23, NE corner of Ironwood (Across from Martins) Expires 9·12·86 I


-------------· 

1636 N.lronwood (between Edison & Rt. 23) 277-0607 
ENTREES 1/2 BBQ Chicken ..........................~~=-~~?.~! .............. 4.75 
Chicken Breast' BBQ..................!~.~~-~~~~~!! ..............1.80 
TRYUUH 

k w· . BBQ (lO Wings) 1 80
Ch1c. en 1ngs ...........................•..•..••.......•.. .
._,EW 
Ml~l 

Baby Back Ribs, Slab..................!~.~~~~~'.............. 13.95
BAR-B-Q 

Baby Back Ribs, 1/2 Slab.............f!.~~~~~~ ................6.95 Baby Back Ribs, lj4 Slab..............!?.~!~:!.................4.95
'i~~ 

Shrimp Basket..............................!~!.:~:!.................5.95 T' '/2 Lb. No Bones 4 95
Tender1o1n. Ips...................................................... . All OfThe Above Includes French Fries And Extra Sauce ---------SANDWICHES----------1 
Pork BBQ....................69¢ or 1.65 
Smoked Sausage.................. 1.95 

BeefBBQ.................... 69¢ or 1.65 
Chicken Salad ....................... 1.95 

Chicken BBQ..............69t or 1.65 
Fish Filet ................................ 1.65 

LUNCH COMBINATION Served All Day 
r........, ........................, ............1 Any BBQ sandwich or 4 Ribs or Chicken Breast with choice of any two small side orders & small beverage 2.95
' 11 sfR~rJ,E I
I{It'~~..,~,~~~·\,~~:·.~' ~------DINNER COMBINATIONS-------1 Jl 277-o•o, I lf2 Chicken BBQ.......................~:~~~~...................... 6.95
('III''NS~\'fC(l('I'Cl,'\ ~ 
~~ 50cOFF ~ Slab Baby Back Ribs...........~~~!!'~:l~~-~ ................16.95 
ANY § 1/2Slab Baby Back Ribs.......!!~.~!~J.~!..................8.95 ~ co~~~~~ION ~ Tenderloin Tips.......................................................6.95 1GooomRu 9•29_86 J lf4Slab Baby Back Ribs.......!?.~~~s!.~~~!...................6.95 
..,..,.,...,.,...,.,.,...,...,...,...,...,...,._ All Dinner Combl1tatlons Include Cornbread Muffins, French Fries and Choice ofTwo Side Orders. 
r,~r
....................;;~~~1------SIDE ORDERS-------..., 
I BARBEQUE ~ Cornbread Muffins 51\.o. Applesauce 50-' or 95¢ 
~ 1636 N. IRONWOOD il! "'f "' ~ ·Rrmm r""'" !'I Cole Slaw 50¢ or 95¢ Baked Beans 50¢ or 95¢ 
~ & nr '·" ~ Com on the Cob 75¢I %77·01107 ~ French Fries Fruit Salad 50¢ or 95¢
75

1 cuP 'N sAt'EcotwoN !!i ¢ Macaroni Salad 50¢ or 95¢
I 
~ Potato Salad 50¢ or 95¢ 
I 
SJSOOFF I DESSERTS
m:1R !-Pe_a_c_h_,A-p-p-1e-,-o-rC_h_e_rry_ Cobbler 1.55 
I COMBINATION I OP'I:"N 7D'A "'S1 11 t 9
! e;!.:.!'!~.;:;:~;.J C:... M 1 0. m. 0 p.m. L---------------------------------------------------------------------------­



CONTACT LENSES 


•Softmate Daily or Extended Wear 
$39 98 

Contact Lenses • 
Daily wear Powers +7.00 to -12.00 Extended wear Powers plano to -6.00 per pair 
•Tinted Contact Lenses 2 Pairs for Daily or Extended Wear 

$99.98 

!busch & Lomb :-;aturalTints or American Ilvdron 
An eye exam is required at the time of purchase. Not valid on prior orders and may not be combined with any other offers or discounts. Offer ends September 27, 1986. 
"Our ey~ear prices are the lowest in Indiana, and our eye care quality is unsurpassed. That's a promise from the doctor." 
1111 E Ireland Road ...291-4000 in the Broadmoor Plaza 506 W McKinley...... 258-500J in the K-Mart/Martin Center 


-~---~~~-----------~-­
The Observer Friday, September 5, 1986-page 6 
Non-aligned movement is 'farce,' says Gadhafi 
Associated Press 
I want to say goodbye, farewell to this funny movement, to this 

HARRARE, Zimbabwe -Libyan fallacy farewell to this utter fal­leader Moammar Gadhafi yester­sehood, Gadhafi said. Asked day denounced fellow members after the speech whether that of the non-aligned movement as meant Libya had left the move­puppets and vowed to undertake ment,' Gadhafi said: "not yet." all types of terrorist acts to defeat Gadhafi vowed to defeat the the United States. United States. 
Delegates to the non-aligned I shall counter it with an inter­summit sat in stunned silence as national army. I shall undertake Gadhafi described their organi­then all types of terrorist acts ... zation as useless and an interna­I shall not leave any stone un­tional farce. turned in the war to defeat this 
Gadhafi paused twice during (American) empire, said Gadhafi. his 75-rninute speech to allow He claimed Libya was under four young Libyan women in bat­siege by 50 U.S. warships off its tle fatigues to chant Down, down coast and tens of thousands of 
U.S.A. U.S. troops. 
Zimbabwean Prime Minister This will never make Libya stop Robert Mugabe, who will head from the continuation of the bat­the movement for the next three tle of freedom and liberation, years, delivered a careful Gadhafi said. response, saying not all of us Gadhafi has overshadowed the would agree with Gadhafi. non-aligned meeting since hear­
Delegations from the Ivory rived Monday with hundreds of Coast, Cameroon and Zaire bodyguards who were disarmed issued protests after Gadhafi by Zimbabwean officials and called their countries puppets later took to staging anti­because they have ties with American demonstrations out­Libya's arch-enemy, Israel. side the conference center. 
Gadhafi said the movement The Libyan leader was widely did not do enough to support seen as having distracted Libya after the United States delegates from the issue of bombed two Libyan cities April South Africa which Mugabe 
15. President Reagan has said hopes will dominate the rest of the attack was in retaliation for the summit and its final declara­Gadhafi's alleged support of in­tions. ternational terrorism. After his speech, Gadhafi, fol­
Gadhafi threatened to lowed by photographers, strode withdraw from the movement through corridors at the confer­unless all of its members severed ence center to meet with Presi­diplomatic ties with the United dent Ali Khamenci of Iran, Pres­States and Britain which allowed ident Fidel Castro of Cuba and 
U.S. warplanes to use its bases President Daniel Ortega of for the attack. Nicaragua. 
Organizational Meeting 
for interested tutors 
Sunday, Sept. 7 at 7:00 in the Library Aud. 
Neighborhood Study Help Program, Inc. 
Dedicated to building a future for the children of South Bend. 

r 
r 
crashed through the front doors and injured three people on Wednesday. 



Air controller predicts collisions 
Associated Press tigator for the National Transpor­laws for planes that go I00 times tation Safety Board, said Wed­faster than a boat. 
LOS ANGELES -Another colli­nesday the air traffic controller The FAA said there have been sion like the one between an handling Aeromexico Flight 498 more than 400 reports of near Aeromexico DC-9 and a small doesn't remember seeing a radar collisions between aircraft plane could happen any day of blip from the plane that collided during the first half of 1986, with the week because ofa dangerous with the DC-9, although the small I 14 reported in California. mix of airliners and small craft aircraft was visible on radar Lauber, in discussing the ap­over Los Angeles, an air traffic screens for several minutes. parent failure to see the Piper, controller said yesterday. Asked how the controller could said the controller also was 
" We shouldnt have blood fail to see the small plane, working a hand-off position in sacrifices to change safety in air Lauber said the controller had the coastal control radar facility. 
space, ••said Anthony Skirlick, a many other things to do at the In the hand-off position, the controller trying to organize a time. radar controller transfers incom­union to replace the one dis­Skirlick, a longtime critic of ing flights to controllers in the solved by President Reagan when Federal Aviation Administration airport tower. he fired 14,000 controllers in a regulations for flight patterns It is not unusual for one con­198 I strike. over Southern California, said troller to be working both posi­
Sixty-seven people in the DC-9 the NTSB investigation focuses tions, and the controller consid­
and the single-engine Piper Ar­too narrowly on events just ered air traffic to be light at the cher died in Sunday's crash over before the accident. time, Lauber said. suburban Cerritos, and es­Lauber said the Piper had been timates of those dead on the It was gross mismanagement tracked for about two minutes ground have gone as high as 24. of the system. It could happen after entering restricted airspace 
Coroner's spokesman Bill Gold any day of the week, because surrounding Los Angeles Inter­said yesterday there was still no they have too many high-speed national Aiport, and if the Piper confirmed death toll on the airplanes with too many little pilot had seen the jetliner, two ground. planes nying around, said Skir­minutes would have been plenty 
John Lauber, chief inves-lick. They are using admiralty of time to avoid a collision. 

Reagan blocks Nicaraguan relief 
Associated Press to two non-government agencies the Sandinistas, Nicaragua's left­in Nicaragua was intended to al­ist rulers. 
WASHINGTON -The Reagan leviate food shortages in the war­Although the U.S. trade em­administration is blocking a torn Central American country bargo does permit shipments to private relief agency from sen­which has been the target of a Nicaragua to relieve human suf­ding farm tools and other sup­U.S. trade embargo for more fering, the administration's plies to leftist-ruled Nicaragua, a than a year. denial, dated Aug. 26, said Ox­decision denounced by one critic We are dealing with the politics ram's supplies were rejected be­
as the politics of hunger. of hunger, Hammock said in an cause such transactions are in­The administration refused an interview Wednesday. This is a consistent with current U.S. application from Oxfam clear example of the government foreign policy. America, a Boston-based relief playing politics with the poor State Department officials of­
agency, to ship to Nicaragua overseas. fered no immediate elaboration 
$4 I, 000 worth of donated and on the reasons for the rejection. 
purchased supplies, including Hammock added that in recent 
rakes, seeds, shovels, agricul­trips to Nicaragua, he had seen The denial coincides with con­tural books, wrenches, chain the beginning of severe mal­gressional approval of $100 mil­saws, hammers and water pipes, nutrition among children.... The lion in mostly military aid to Oxfam officials said. administration seems to be Nicaraguan Contra rebels who 
John Hammock, Oxfam exec­taking the position that anything are fighting to overthrow the utive director, said the shipment that helps Nicaraguans, helps Sandinista government. 

Friday, September 5, 1986-page 7 

The Observer 

Billionaire pledged $4.2 million in effort to get P .0.W. videotape 
Associated Press Bush and that later, The vice The major also told the com­president called me and, based mittee he had seen the tape and 
WASHINGTON -Texas bil­on our discussion, I tried to as­that it showed Caucasians being lionaire H. Ross Perot. after con­sist Mr. Perot in any way I could. held prisoner and forced to work ferring with Vice President in timber and mining operations George Bush, pledged $4.2 mil­According to a former Army in northern Laos. lion in a futile effort to obtain a major who first told the story of The Defense Department lists videotape purporting to show the tape, the money was on 2,44 I Americans who did not American prisoners of war alive deposit in the Bank of America return from the conflict in Sout­in Laos.. in Singapore last April when he heast Asia. In its monthly tally of 
"I was asked by our government attempted to obtain photograp­reports pertaining to possible to pursue this thing. to get the hic evidence that Americans were POWs, the Defense Intelligence tape if it existed,"Perot said in a still being held prisoner. Agency lists 88 I cases of alleged recent telephone interview~' I said Retired Maj. Mark Smith told sightings of live Americans being 1 fine, its a long shot. but Ill be the Senate Veterans Affairs Com­held prisoner since the fall of glad to do it." mittee last June that he and Hen­Saigon in 1975. 
The tape was never produced don went to Singapore with in­The latest DIA tally lists 136 of 
-1 and the money was never paid. structions from the Defense that total as currently un­1 Perot refused to identify who Intelligence Agency to offer $4.2 resolved. The agency said the 1 in the government asked him to million to Robin Gregson, a remainder were disproven. ,1 pursue the matter. British citizen who claimed to "Perot said of the videotape, 
,
Marlin Fitzwater, spokesman have possession of the Like everything else around the 
1
for Bush, said Wednesday that videotape. POW-MIA thing. its a will-a-the­
l 
the vice president discussed the Smith told the committee that wisp." tape with Perot and asked him Gregson, who also uses the to take a look at the issues there name John Obassy, rejected the The Dallas computer magnate and see if he thought they were offer. first became involved in the POW legitimate. "Smith testified that Gregson issue in 1969 when he attempted 
But Fitzwater added that lm told him, I didnt ask you for $4.2 to ny to Hanoi to deliver medical sure he (Bush) didnt ask him to million in cash. I asked you for supplies and Christmas dinners make payments." support for these people in Laos. to American POWs. He also 
Also involved in the effort was I have never asked for money.' financed a successful 1979 res­Rep. Bill Hendon, R-N.C., who The people in Laos were rebel cue mission to Iran to free two said Wednesday that he dis­forces fighting the communist of his employees from a Tehran cussed the videotape matter with government. prison. 
Two members of the Oklahoma City police tactical team approach a drive-in window in a recent hold-up of a fast-food restaurant. After the officers stormed the building, they found the robbers dead of gunshot wounds. 
CBF 

'i'll!.!itJ:UWAI!.NMA 
Have unanswered questions about God? Find the answers in an honest search through the Bible. It speaks for itself. 
Join us every Friday at 6:30, 19525 Pendle 
Call 277-8471 for info or rides 
The Department of Communication and Theatre welcomes you to the Fall Film Series 
Tonight: 
Don't Look Back 
Don Pennebaker's legendary rock documentary of Bob Dylan's 1965 English tour. 
We have a newly enhanced sound system to complement our new theatrical quality 16mm projector. $1.50 adm. 
7:30 and 9:30pm in the Annenberg Auditorium. Season tickets and series passes will be available. 
Notre Dame Avenue 

Apartments 
NOWRENTING FORFAIL 



President 
continuedfrompage 1 
Beginning at 9 tonight, Saint Mary's students are invited to an All Student Party in the Angela Athletic Facility. Heller said each student can pick up two tickets for the party at the front desk of her respective residence hall. The band, This End Up, will en­tertain at the dance party with contemporary music, Heller said. Food and soda will be served. Hickey and his wife will 




ironwood liquors 
I~2'i :'\onh Ironwood l>riH· South lknd, Indiana j(,()_)'i 
T2-~l i i 

The Observer News Department is accepting applications for the following positions: 
Senior Staff Reporter 
Copy Editor Day Editor Saint Mary's Assistant Editor 
Those interested may come up to the Observer's offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center or call Mark Pankowski, Tripp Baltz or Margie Kersten at 239-5303. 






r----------------, 
t  Attention all sophomore or junior  :  
t  Business, American Studies, or  
:  ALPA majors:  :  

greet students from 9 to I 0:30 p.m., Heller said. 
Saint Mary's students are in­vited to the other events sched­uled this weekend. Itsjust appro­priate for students to be involved in any inauguration,' said Sister Bazil Anthony, inauguration committee member. 
Preparations for the event have been underway since the an­nouncement of Hickey's position 
on February 28. 
Heller said the inauguration was slated for this weekend be­cause the preparation process has been long and so many out­of-town guests had to be notified and many of these are his (Hickeys) personal guests.' 
I think the students are excited for new administration, said Hel­ler. Its a good chance to grow.' 

i , , 
Anthony said similar festivities have taken place for other Col­lege presidents, including the in­auguration of former President John Duggan. College Public In­formation Specialist Brett McLaughlin said, Based on other colleges (their inaugural procedures), this is par for the 

1 
course. 

1 
Other events will include the celebration of a mass at 10 a.m. Sunday in the Church of Our 

1 
Lady of Loretto. 

1
An academic procession will 

i 
commence at 2: 15 Sunday from 

1 
the Great Doors of LeMans Hall 

l 
to O'Laughlin. Heller said the en­--, tire senior class has been invited 
.,
to join the parade in caps and gowns because they are looked up to by the younger students. Seniors can pick up their caps and gowns today, from 10 a.m. 
to 4 p.m. in the bookstore. 
Heller said the junior class of­ficers, serving as nag bearers, will lead the procession. Past recipients of honorary degrees from Saint Mary's, presidents of other small Catholic and wo­men's colleges, representatives 


from other colleges and univer­

Completely furnished, balconies, laundry, 
t t 
sities, and Hickey will be in the 

and off-street parking. 
t The Observer Advertising Dept. t procession. On site management & maintenence, 
Several bearers of greetings

t needs SALES REPS. immediatedly. t
1 7 will deliver two-minute speeches
all deluxe features 
following the procession. Among

MmT in lwforc 1) I) S() and get 
t ~ t the 12 scheduled speakers arct •Paid on commissions f University President Father
ONE MONTH FREE RENT 
' ePrevious sales experience preferred, t Theodore Hesburgh who will Office at 120 ND Ave 
give the invocation, South Bend
' but not required 
Mayor Roger Parent. and Acting
l34-6647 

t eCome fill out an application at t 
Vice President and Dean of Fac­

Call Anytime 
t The Observer, 3rd Floor, Lafortune f 
ulty Dorothy Feigl. 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 


Accent 
Friday, September 5, 1986-page 8 

----------------------------b:<-s.·.~-----·------------------------­
BIG news sparks questions to meditate 
when the  successor  is named'?  Perhaps  they  would  answer:  ident of this University will work  
Father Robert Griffin  Who, if anyone, is ambitious enough to covet the job for him  God will send the University a leader on whom His ~race rests.  out a comparable arran~cmcnt with God's Mother at the Grotto.  
self? Who  has dreamed  that if  God will build the back to bear  Let those Seniors who say What  
Letters to a Lonely God  the change had come earlier. or  the  burden.  He  will  bless  the  makes  tile  cli{{ercnce"?  I  think  
if the change were delayed for a  work of the one responsible for  twice about what they're tcllin~  
year or two. that he, the dreamer,  saying: The huck slops l1ere.  them selves as a ~rievous  lie.  
This  is  the  year  of the  BIG  Dame's president. so that he can  might be a credidbel candidate  Among  the  Seniors.  there  
r  news. and I'm wondering what's  devote his energies  to working  for the office?  must be students brash cnou~h  The t"rcsluncn.  so far. ilrc still  
on everyone's minds.  for peace?  It would be nice  to be Notre  to say:  Wlwt  makes the differ­ observers. Lon~fcllow wrote: T/w  
I  In November or  February.  or  As you can see.  intensity has  Dame's president. if one had the  ence who the next president is'?  lhougllts ofyouth are long. lollf:J  
r  perhaps  in  a  month  when  we  my  imagination  working  over­ qualifications. Of those wishing  Nothing  will  chan~c.  Nothinn  1/wunllts.  I am willin~  to ~ucss  
I  least expect it. the new leader of  time.  Father  Hesburgh  im­ to serve. no one has such an un­ ever  chanagcs  at  Notre  D<nnc.  that at  some  future time,  their  
r  Notre Dame will be announced;  presses  me  as  a  happy priest  limited opportunity  as  the  one  Even if it docs,  it's too late for  happicsst memory will  be: Our  
r  Father Hesburgh will become the  who  faithfully  patronizes  the  who has among his duties the  us,  bccuasc we're almost out of  {resllmen JJCar  was  the /a.'-;1  of  
r r r r r  President-emeritus. and we will find that the country is paying close attention to our changing of the gaurd.  Grotto. even if he doesn't have an exam to take or a paper to finish. I'm always reassured when I  job of being the servant of the servants of Our Lady's school. In Holy Cross, we have the  here. Sooner or later, when they feel the tremblin~ of the earth under their feet. they'll know they arc  lhe He.o;/nugll uears. We are prottcl am/ /wpp_tJ ll1at we were 011 campus wlwn so great a man was in cll;uge. That will be their  
r  The school year is beginning  talk to him because of his relaxed  young.  the  old.  and  the  mid­ wrong.  Nothing  ever  stays  the  claim to fame, and their ~cner­ 
r  quietly, and we're excited by the  attitude. He's at peace with the  dleaged.  Some  dream  of  the  same.  The sky above Venice is  ation's  equivalent  to  havin~  
upcoming debut of the new foot­ changes to come; and he lets me  good old days that  once  were;  different than it used to be: pol­ fou~ht  with  Kin~  Harry  on  St.  
ball coach; Lou Holtz, winning or  see his serenity so that I will be  others  of  the  great  years  to  lution has dulled the brilliance of  Crispin's <lay.  
losing.  will  not be the alii-time  at peace too. Yet I would love to  come.  Some. at least a few,  are  the sunrise. Not even the mi~hty  Adults play a  ~ame  with chil­ 
big  news  story coming  out  of  know what he's thinking  these  in love with the present time and  power  of  the  Roman  Catholic  dren  that  bc~ins:  A  penny  for  
South Bend this fall. With differ­ days. He would be the first to tell  want nothing to change. All of us  Church can  hold back the tides  your  thou~hts.  I would  like  to  
ing degrees of excitement.  we  me  that I shouldn't watch  him  will  measure the new president  signifying the death of empires,  play a campus ~a me that bc~ins:  
are  waiting  for  the  really  Big  perform  his presidential duties  with a careful eye, and pray that  the birth of nations.  What  arc  you  thinkin~'?  The  
news. and I find myself watching  for a final time as though I were  he will  be careful  with dreams  Nowhere is it written that Notre  answers wouldn't chan~c anyth­ 
the people of the campus,  won­ following his footsteps. making  and visions which he is expected  Dame  is changeless  or  death­ ing. unless I was tal kin~ to some  
dering what's on their minds.  the stations of the cross.  to handle with love and compas­ less. No newly-arrived president  VIP in char~c  ot the future,  but  
I meet Father Hesburgh on his  I wonder what the members of  sion.  of Notre  Dame  would  ever  be  maybe the time would pass more  
way to the Grotto, and ~·m  won­ my Holy Cross community  are  What  arc  the  hopes  and  given as his mandate: Han~  on  quickly  as  we  wait  for the  I~IG  
dering: Who or what is he praying  thinking as Father Hesburgh gets  reservations of the  lay faculty.  to  the  status quo.  None of us  news.  
for? What has he heard, and why  ready to give up his office. The  watching  and  waiting  like  the  would want a president with such  I. personally, am ~cttin~ ready  
is he asking for Our Lady's help  retiring president has the com­ priests to see whom the Trustees  a stagnant a~cnda.  for a bi~ suprisc. The people at  
in the middle of the workday? Is  munity's gratitude.  But who.  if  will give  us  as  the  new  charis­ The next President may make  the lop,  I've noticed,  arc full of  
he here because he's worried, or  we  could  take  a  headcount do  matic  leader?  What  do all  the  the Notre Dame dc~rcc  of such  bi~ surprises. It would be a mis­ 
here because he's devout?  we  want to see  take his place?  men and women, workin~ in side  value that it's only credential we  take to say more than that.  be·  
Does he know who wiII succeed  What  kind  of job  description  and outside of the buildings of  will need for cntcrin~ heaven. Ac­ cause then you would know \dli!l  
him. and does he like the choice?  could the Holy Cross members  the campus.  think'? Who,  from  cordin~  to  lc~cnd,  God  has  I'm  thinkin~.  Nobody  else  on  
Does he wish he had a little more  write for the president?  the  community,  do  they  trust  promised to put the Irish into the  campus is sayin~ e\·crythin~  he  
time to finish his work,  or is he  Who, if anyone, will feel hurt.  with  the  mission  to  the  future  care of St. Patrick on  the <lay of  or she thinks this year,  so why  
anxios to call it a day as  Notre  or disappointed or even cheated,  that the University has?  jud~mcnt.  Maybe the next pres- should I'?  


Unbeelievable: Bees 
have built in compasses 
ERIC M. BERGAMO 
assistant features editor 

Something is abuzz on the South Quad these days. 
That's because of an experi­ment being conducted by the De­partment of Biological Sciences. The experiment is to discover how bees use the Earth's mag­
.netic field to navigate to food 
, ~ 
sources. 
, Part of the experiment is a one and a half foot tall wooden plat­
r 
form with a glass bottle on the
r 
top located between Badin Hall and the South Dining Hall. A sign on the platform asks that the ex­periment not be disturbed. 
r The bottle is filled with a table sugar and water solution that 
r 
,' 
takes the place of nectar. ex­
r 
plained graduate student David 
r 
Schmitt.
r 
Because there are so few
r 
r flowers to gather nectar from at this time of year. the solution acts as a substitute. said Schmitt. 
The bees are kept in three hives on the roof of the Galvin Life Sciences Center. There are four feeding sites located at the major points of the compass ­north. south, east and west -of There have been few com­light and landmarks. explained the building. plaints about the experiment Schmitt. 
The bees are collected and since it was put out last spring. The pioneer work on bees 
brought into the laboratory. They Some people complained that using the magnetic field to are placed into an apparatus there shouldnt be bees on navigate was done by Dr. Karl which manipulates an artifical campus,· Dr. Harald Esch of the Von Frisch of Germany. He magnetic field. How the bees Biological Sciences Department noticed that in the bee's figure orient themselves to the field is said. eight dance to point to a food recorded and the data Schmitt has recieved no com­source was a margin of error programmed into a computer. plaints. related to the Earth's magnetic 
The preliminary results of the The bees are so intent on field, explianed Schmitt. experiment have been encourag­feeding that it is highly unlikely Scientists have yet to find the ing. said Schmitt. that anyone can be stung. ex­mechanism that causes this, said 
The bees use a hierarchy of plained Schmitt. Schmitt although magnatite, an methods to navigate which in­Theyre very gentle bees,· he iron compound, has been dis­clude the sun, ploarized blue said. covered in the bee's abdomen. 
+ 

WVFITopTen 
1. 
In Your Eyes Peter Gabriel 

2. 
Fall On Me REM 3.Suspicios Minds Fine Young Cannibals 


4. 
Love Comes Quickly Pet Shop Boys 

5. 
Boys Don't Cry The Cure 

6. 
Spirit in the Sky Doctor and the Medics 

7. 
Sing Our Own Song 0840 


8. Walk This Way Run-DMC 
9. 
No Promises Icehouse 

10. 
Money's Too Tight Simply Red 


This chart has been compiled from the play lists 
of WVFI-AM640 from Aug. 27 to Sept. 3 

.server-­

The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following positions: 
Questions should be directed to Mary Jacoby at the OIHerver office (239-5313). Resumes and personal statements ore due Thursday, 
Sept. 4. 
• 
Features Copy Editor 

• 
Features Senior Staff Reporters 


The ObMrvet: 3rd Floor, LeFortune Student Center 
Not,. Deme, IN 48556 



"ieVV~_O_i_D__t______________~Frida~y,se~ptern~bers~,l98~6-p~age9 
New fund may pressure ND Trustees to divest 
t1crc's a very concrete su~~cstion i:IS to whi:lt Notre Di:lmc students and alumni can do to pressure their own University toward divestment of funds invested in companies that arc doin~ business in South AfricCJ. 
Jurgen Brauer 
guest column 

!.d's bttild up a C<IITot·and·stick fund th_at will work as follows: Alumni and alumni-to-be !that's you folksJ me asked not to respond to Notre Dame's rc~ulm pleas for money l>y handin~ over checks to the administration. Rather, the checks that alumni and you would have ~iven to the administration is to ~o into a carrot­
and-stick fund 1perhaps jointly adminis­tered by the Anti-Apc.~rthei<l ~roup on cwnpus c.~ml an c.~lumni ~roup). The money that accumulates in the carrot­c.~nd-stick trust fund wil only be released to the Notre Dame administration once 
is  has  fully  divested  from  companies  
<loin~  business  with  the  wcist  South  
African rc~imc.  

It is obvious that at some point the funds accumulc.~ted in the fund will be­come ~realer than the dividends our ad· ministration reaps from its current invest­ments in Sout11 Africc.~n related firms. Say for example, that our University has in­vested $30 million in such companies. Also say, for the sc.~ke of the ar~ument. that it gets a mea~er return of I 0 percent on those investment, hence $3 million per year for the benefit of our education. 
Consequently, as soon as alumni ancl alumni-to-be have contributed $3 million to the carrot-and-stick trust fund we can talk divestment in rather concrete terms. ror how can the administration refuse to <livest in order to get the money in the fund'? It can do so only at the expense of foregoing that amount of money which ~oes beyond the $3 million or so that it can collect on dividends. 
But why would our money-hungry ad­ministration want to forego any dollars? In fact, I suspect that the uproar of even the inactive students and alumni could be heard fairly well if the administration did not take in the addition money sitting 
around in the carrot-and-stick trust fund. And an uproar would certainly seem jus­tified for money that the administration does not take in potentially increases our tuition and room-and-board costs. 
And now, just ima~ine the fun Coca­Cola's man will have on Notre Dame's Board of Trustees when he has to vote divestment from his own companies to fulfill his role as trustee, nay, as chairman of the Board of. Trustees. So, Anti­Apartheid Network people and all others who would like to see Notre Dame divest from the racist minority regime in South Africa: make something of the idea. It's yours. Jurgen Brauer is a Notre Dame graduate student. 

Research should not interfere with teaching 
The university professor hc.~s ion~ been stereotyped and misrepresented in the teachin~ profession. Many people have the rnisconccption tll.tt rollc~le profcs· sors hd\'t' il edS}'; they led< h d lc\1. <lilSSeS, d<lrninister a fc\1.· tesh, ,md \'ilCdtion fre­quently while recdvin~ <Jbovc ilVcrCJ~c wc.~~cs for the tei:lchin~ profession in ~cn­er<JI. Sure, people S<l}. I'd lm·c to be <1 <olleBe professor: minimill work, milxi­lllltlll pl.ty, <Jnd d nice sal<~ry to top it off. 
Michael Froning 
in the minority 

lhis stereotype, to s.1y the lcilst, is pure fant<Jsy. In tml<~y's unin~rsities <1nd col­ll'~ws throu~lhout the n.ttion, professors not only hilve ri~<>rous tcachin~ schedules, they have another. frequently appcminH more important role than tcachin~r it is !hilt of rese<Jrchin~ and publishin~l­
fn an effort to atte1in the respect and status needed lo stay ilhcild in tlw race of procurin~ funds and attractin~ the desired <:licn!cle of both professors and students, universities and collc~cs have dcmamlcd of their professors to research and subsequently publish. 
This has led to some f.tirly typical results. The ion~ established leaders in education at the university level hc.~vc simply rccicved more money in the wc.~y of investments ami ~rants to continue what they have been doin~ for ycc.~rs: renmin at the forefront of university edu­cation. 
In addition, nmny smaller universities, who in the past have had trouble procur­in~ funds, have received more money and have been able to increase the status of their repsective institutions. 
The results, however have not been all ~ood. Some universities <Jrc so intent 011 advancin~ in the ranks of education, once professors have been lured to employ­ment teachin~ is the sometimes the least of their responsibilities Rcsearchin~ and publishin~ becomes practically the.ir top priority, especially it tenure is the ultimate ~oCJI. Rcceivin~ tenure or a renewed con­tmct is at best difficult for existing pro-
Doonesbury 
lessors should they not show significant 
output. 
This can lead to some obvious prob­lems. The most sinnificant of these is tl1<.1t often lirncs a professor's course load is reduced drastically, simply because of unwritten research and publication re­quirements. 
This means tlli:lt sometimes the less competent professors, or even tcachin~ assistants, arc ~ivcn the bulk of the in­structinB assi~nments so the more qualified professors may rescc.~rch and publish. This results in llltlllcrous com­plications, such as poor course selection and the uneven distribution of cducatin~ duties. 
An application to a real life problem would perhaps he helpful, so let's take a look at the Notre Dwnc rrench Depart· mcnt. 
This semester there are only five 300­400 level french courses offered to stu­dents wishing to fulfill requirements for the french major. Only four of these are in rrcnch, c.~ml four arc literature courses, the other l>ein~ a lin~uistics course. 
Needless to say, this is not the ideal offcrin~ to students wishin~ to major in rrench. Assumin~ <.1 French major should ~rc.~duatc with a proficiency in writing. reading. speaking. translatin~ and com­prchendin~ the rrcnch lan~ua~c. which would facilitate an ability to live comfor­tably in a rrench conmnmity, which is nul an unreasonable assumption, the course offerin~s this semester arc vastly inade­quc.~tc. 
Grc.~ntcd, a litcratue course involves, to a de~ree, the skills of writing. speaking. translatin~ and comprehending. but a literature course is specifically designed for reading literature. It is not a French composition course, or a designed to ap­ply any more than the rudimentary, or at best intermediate clements of these skills. 
lthink it would be fruitless to argue that these other skills arc not necessary for the French major. But if they are impor­tant, why are courses specifically de­si~ned to enhance these other skills not bein~ offered'? 
The undcrlyin~ reason is shameful. There bcin~ only one senior professor in 
the entire French department. the Univer­sity has reduced the course loads of many teachers in the department in order that these educators may have time to even­tuate a publication which, in the Univer­sities eyes, would presumably have a· hand in determining said educator's fu­ture at Notre Dame. 
The end result is simple: all students with an interest in meeting the require­ments for French as a first or second major have been denied the opportunity to enhance their skills in many specific areas of the French language. 
It is, in my opinion, unacceptable for a lan~uage department not to offer courses specifically designed to enhance each individual skill of its respective lan­~uage if majors in that language are ac­cepted by the university. It is simply not very practical or very fair to those inter­ested in becoming proficient in a partic­ular language. 
I do not advocate that educators should abandon research and publication for in­sstucting. but neither should the stu­dent's right to a fair and comprehensive education in a particular field be denied by the unavailabbility of causes in the !llost rudimentary skills in said field. · 
Obviously, a viable balance must be attained. This balance should provide an opportunity for the student to fortify skills in all areas of a specific subject while simultaneously allowing the educator to research and publish for the benefit of the university and for the vencfit of edu­cation itself. 
In my opinion, this is not the type of balance currently av ailable in the Notre Dame French Department. To avoid turn­ing out less than competent French majors and simply to attract more stu· dents to the department. a wider variety of courses designed specifically to en­hance individual skills is essential. 
Michael Froning is a junior in the Col­lege of Arts ancl tellers ami is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
.... 

TNI ,tii~T PNY.IICAli.Y TlltiNTID, DID $(ollE AT /.EAST IH~ oN 
THEIR S.A.T. s ... 
Garry Trudeau 

Campus quote 
"While I'm here in school, let me say that more important than any books and exams are the friends I make, the friends I'll come to love and cherish and always remember." 
Joe Corpora Quoted in Day by Day 
+ 




"ie~~_O_i_n__t______________Frida~y,sep~temb~ers._1986~-pa~gelo 
Homosexuality rooted in sociological factors 
A common assumption noats daily through the national press as well as The Observer and it is surprising that no one even challenges it. This is the univeral offhand separation of people into two categories, homosexuals and heterosexuals, as if such a classification is so self-evident as to need no justifica­tion. 
Chris Julka 

guest column 
Thus we hear of homosexuals coming out of the closet, as if homosexuality were the natural disposition of these people against which they can do nothing, and this is to go beyond the mere polymorph perversity to which Freud refers. What is more, various groups have marched the streets in San Francisco, established themselves in a number of universities and picketed before the White House in an attempt to spread the cause of gay rights. 
By this. what is assumed is that the homosexual's very identity is inseparable from his act of homosexuality, as though being a homosexual is the same thing as being a man or woman. Thus at the Dem­ocratic National Convention at San Fran­cisco, Jesse Jackson included the homosexuals into his Rainbow Coalition as if being homosexual were the same, thing as being Hispanic or black. 
Furthermore, many stories have now made the cover of Newsweek and other national magazines telling of some adolescent or young adult who suddenly discovers that he or she is gay, in much the same way that one would discover that one has Parkinson's Disease or a heart murmur. 
But is all of this really the case? Is there such a thing as gays being liberated and allowed to come at last out of the closet as the media would have us believe, or are beings who are at bottom simply or­dinary people being convinced that they were born to perform homosexual acts? 
What is amazing is that although ad­herents of the latter view arc usually guil­lotined by the popular media as being ignorant or non-progressive, the actual evidence points in their direction. Con­sider the following: As of yet, no real evidence exists that sexual abberations running through generations or among blood relations are not the result of living in similar or identical environments. Thus, despite all of the claims about being born homosexual and hopelessly and forever unable to change, absolutely no one has demonstrated that homosexuality results from a genetic fac­tor, as do mongolism and myopia, for instance. 

Since genes do not serve as an ade­quate explanation, homosexuality has been frequently attribuuted to hormonal imbalances. When homosexual subjects were administered heavy doses of male hormones, however, although the sexual drives intensified, no change occurred in the object of these drives. 
On the other hand, it has been shown statistically that sociological back­grounds often have a direct correlation with the number of homosexuals in a given population. A l1igh proportion of homosexuals, for instance, come from disturbed homes where they experienced difficulty in identifying with the parent of their own sex. 
In fact, contrary to the claim that homosexuality is an innate trait, from which one can never free oneselt, both modern learning theories and rrcudian psychoanalysis locate their roots in one's 
sociological conditioning or traumas ex­
perienced during chii(J development, 
whether it be the case of an over­
protective mother, a broken horne, or a 
passive or inaccessible father. 

Social conditioning theories do not serve as total explanations for homosexuality of course, because fre­quently people in identical environments grow up developing entirely different sexual orientations. This, however, merely provides a case for the relevance of the free will in becoming or not be­coming homosexual. 
Homosexuality involves an active par­ticipation or intention, after all, and thus requires a person's willing consent in at least some way. Given t11c unpopularity of concluding that we could possibly be responsible in at least some way for our actions, I will ntJt push this theory. What is important is this: despite everything you have l1earcl or read in the media, there is absolutely no cviclcncc wlwt­socvcr that homosexuality results from renegade genes, an atypical physiology or any other constitutional factors. What evidence there is, in fact, militates against this view. 
Chris -lulka is a junior in tile Collc_rw o( Arts CIIJ(J l.eller.o;. 

Choosing a major relies on personal insight 
Discovering what course of curriculum suits you best can be a very difficult task. At 18 or 19, most college students find it very stressful to make career decisions that will effect the rest of their lives. In fact, a large percentage do not decide upon a definite major until their junior year; meanwhile, sampling various majors until they find the academic nitch which is most appropriate for them. 
Lisa Boykin 

in thru the out door 
Originally, I came to Notre Dame with intentions of pursuing a career in medicine. Like most freshmen, I found the curriculum to be much more demand­ing than I had anticipated and somehow it did not live up to my expectations of discovering some magical elixer in Chemistry lab. Instead, I was over­whelmed by a tremendous amount of in­tegral equations, molecular structures, and thermodynamics. It was difficult for me to see the correlation between detailed and complex mathematics and giving a child a booster shot. 
I managed to endure until my sopho­more year and then selected Pre­MecWsychology as my intended major. Sometimes I wondered ifmy glossed over images about being a doctor actually ad­hered to the reality of the profession. After a very confusing and disillusioned first semester, I changed my major to Pre-Med-Government. Although I hadn't realized it at the time, I felt very dis­satisfied with my studies. This unhapi­ness seemed to carry over into every aspect of my life, hovering over me like a dark cloud. 
Then, one week after classes had started for the Spring semester, a pivotal event occurred. I stayed up half of the night gazing at the same page in my Bi­ology text book. I finally admitted to myself that I stin hadn't quite found my academic nitch. Something had been eating at me all along, the desire to pursue a different interest. Yet I had denied and ignored it. 
I occassionally entertained the thought of changing my major and attending law school but usually abandoned the thought. It was too painful to consider relinquishing the dreams that I had clung to for so many years. They were not only my dreams but my family's as well. Would I be giving in to the pressure or making a mature decision about my own happi­ness and future? I felt like a quitter. How would I know if I was going in the right direction? Would I eventually regret this decision? I was engulfed by feelings of guilt and doubt but mostly confusion. 
That morning, I ran around frantically dropping and adding classes. Finally, I held the last drop slip in my hand. I was scared and felt a big lump in my throat as I walked slowly toward Galvin to turn it in. I prayed for some type of guidance and lingered in tile hallway waiting for devine inspiration. Somebody, anybody walk by and tell me not to do it. to do it. Well, I can always pick it up again next semester if I dont like this,· I thought. 
A tear swelled up in my eye as I watched her sign my dream away. There, I did it. No more labs. 
I wrestled with my decision for the remainder of the semester and all sum­mer. I flipped coins, picked petals off of nowers in the spring (doctor, lawyer, doc­tor, lawyer), talked to my parents, and most significantly, I prayed. 

I think the saddest day of my life was telling my 70-year-old grandmother that I wasn't.going to be a physician. My mot­her applauded my decision, commending me for having the courage to examine my heart and select a course ofstudy that would not only make me happy but com­pliment that talent that I had neglected, writing. After two years of soul-searching, I have arrived at my current major. Gov­ernmenWhilosophy. I am finally comfort­able and acclimated with my decision. 
By no means have I conquered all of my doubts and fears. No one ever does. In fact, sometimes I even wonder about what could have been 1.d1en I hear my roommate talk of MCAT'S and medical school. Yet this has proven to be such a growing experience that I wouldn't trade it for the world. 
To all of those many people who feel unsure and dissatisfied with their m<uor. I have no magical words that will render contusion. The procc.o;~ ol cllangin~1 or selecting a major is not always as grueling an experience as it was for me, but it does require a tremendous amount of introspection all(! honesty with yourslf. Don't be afraid to follow those nut in­stincts ami to malw carn~r selections tll<tt arc a result of your O\\·n personal rcllcl­tion. 
Remember, Gmlllasn't brought you this far to leave you now. 
/J<;a Boykin is a junior _fJOI'<'I'Il/1H'Ill and p/li/o.o;opll_tJ m<tjor .r1ul .r w_qul.rr View­point columni.o;t. 


P.O.BoxQ 
Gay groups deserve campus representation 
Dear Editor: 

Father Tyson insists that • formal recognition of GLNIYSMC (Gays and Les­bians at Notre DamC!St. Marys College) carries with it an implicit sanction for a homosexual lifestyle which is not in keeping with the values of the University or the teachings of the Church." Why not therefore recognize GLNIYSMC as a poli­tical and educational organization rather than as a social group? Why not simulta­neously make it clear that official recogni­tion ofGLND'SMC in no way connotes Uni-. versity approval of a homosexual lifestyle? 
The homophobia on this campus is per­vasive and deeply rooted. II comes not only from students, but also from profes­sors, priests and administrators. As an aggrieved minority, gays and lesbians have every right, ·perhaps even a moral obligation, to organi7e and to act in order to combat the discrimination which turns up with such tragic frequency on this campus. 
As a university which has long pre­sented itself to the world as catholic, pro­gressive and respectful of minorities, Notre Dame has its own obligation to point the way in displaying toleration and respect for homosexuals as well as for more socially acceptable minorities. I believe that we can work together to dis­pel the homophobia which infects this campus. We might even hasten tile com­ing of that day when we will regard each other's sexual orientations with as much toleration and respect as we already show for each other's racial, ethnic and religi­ous backgrounds. 
R<'l'. Isaac NcV,IIlic/, 0. 5. 13. 

Answer to yesterday's rhyme: Zero -the man "I" met was going in the other direction. 
General Board 


The Observer 
Ed•tor m-Ctuel Joe Murphy Busmess Manager Er~c Scheuermann Managmg Ed• tor Kev1n Becker Controller Alex VonderHaar
P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239~5303 
V1ewpomt Ed1tor Scott Beart'y Product1on Manager Chns Bowler Sports Ed1tor Denn1s Corngan Photography Manager James Carroll The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Un1ver­
Accent Ed1tor Mary Jacoby AdvertiStng Manager Anne M.Culllgans1ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Samt Mary's College It does not necessar.ly reflect the !;al'lt Mary·s Ed1tor Marg1e Kersten 
Systems Manager Shawn Sexton 
pohc1es of the adm1n1sttat10n of e1ther 1nst1tut10n The news 1s reported as dccurately News Ed1tor T11pp B::tltz Graphic Arts Manager Mark Weimholland obwct1vely as poss1ble Uns1gned ed1tona1s represent the opm101" ot a ma,ortty ot 
News Ed1tor. Mark Pankowski the Ed1t011al Board Commenta11es. letters and the lns1de Column present the v1ews ot thetr authors Column space 1S available to all members or the commun1ty and the free eKpress1on ot varv1nq opm1ons on campus. through letters. IS encouraged 
Founded November 3,1966 
-~­

Friday, September 5, 1986-page 11
The Observer 
SMC soccer on road to battle Marquette 
By ANDREA LaFRENIERE optimistic, nonetheless, about 
S.tinl Nar.t(~ Sporl.'> t:clitor the competition. 
"Its going to be a tough game, 
Tile 1986 Saint Mary's varsity and were going into it without 
soccer team opens its season any prior scrimmages, but I think 
today in Milwaukee against the it's good we're starting our 
Marquette women's soccer club, season against a good op­
one of the finest women's soccer ponent," Akers said. 
club teams in the Midwest. Tile Belles, whose schedule is 
Nine returning team members filled with tough opponents, will lead tile Belles in the game, have their work cut out for them including senior team captains this season. Last year the first­Ann Nora t:llret. Gloria Eleuteri, year varsity team played a lot of Stacey Snyder and Mary Anne club teams. This season, Perri; juniors K.C. Chandler, however, the majority of the 
Landry Clement and Patty Hat­Belles' opponents are varsity 
field; and soplmmores Ellen teams. 
Boyle and Bridget Coneys. "Were playing more varsity 
teams so that we will be eligible 
New members joining tile for post-season play,· Akers said. team effort include senior "In addition, this way we find out Mariclaire Driscoll and sopho­right away what varsity soccer is more Anne Szweda, along with all about." freshmen Celeste Aquino, Col­Tile Belles hope to improve leen l~rantman. Nancy Haske, two aspects of their play when Coleen Keefe, Caroline KnolL taking on these teams, accor­Mollie Meehan, Kathy Revane ding to Akers. and Liz Toole. ''We have two goals." he said. 
John Akers returns as Head "The first is to be more consistent 
Coach for tile Belles. Assisting in our play, and the second is to 
him is Notre Dame senior Eric improve upon our 5-9 record Chris Evert Lloyd will try to advance to yet t:vans. from last year." 
another appearance in the finals of the U.S. 
Akers concedes that Mar­The Belles' home opener is on 
Open Tennis Tournament today in her semi­
quette, who beat Saint Mary's last Saturday at Angela Field, where season by a score of 6-2, will be they will face Oberlin. Game time 

a challenge for tile Belles. He is is 2:30 p.m. 
Thanks toyou... itworks... forALLOFUS 

o-we. '"" ... .... 

futons naturally 
232 Seuth Mkh.... South Be~. IN "'-1 2lt·23S-IITl ........ t .....s., Thur..Sn u uo s ••• r m fn411 • Saturday 10 uo. m 6·00 p m 




Becker cruises into Open semifinal 
Associated Press  winner of America's premier ten­ of a Grand Slam tournament.  
nis event against No. 7 Helena  And he won the first two - 
NEW YORK -West Germany's  Sukova of Czechoslovakia.  wimbledon last year and again  
Boris Becker easily advanced  Becker, seeded third in the  this year.  
into the semifinals of the U.S.  128-player men's .singles field,  For only the fourth time in the  
Open Tennis Championships  had no problems with his 6-foot­ history of the United States Ten­ 
last night. crushing  8 opponent who was booed  nis Championships, there are no  
Czechslovakia's Milan Srejber 6­ repeatedly for his uninspired ef­ Americans among the final four  
3, 6-2, 6-1.  fort. Srejber, the tallest player in  in the men's singles. And, for the·  
Becker, the reigning  professional tennis, repeatedly  first time, the semifinal field con­ 
Wimbledon champion, will take  let Becker's passing shots sail by  sists entirely of Europeans.  
on another Czechoslovak, 16th­ without even lifting his racket or  The last time there were no  
seeded Miloslav Mecir, in tomor­ attempting to try for the ball.  Americans in the men's semi­ 
row's semifinals. The other semi­ One of only two unseeded  , finals was in 1966 when Manuel  
final will pit yet another  players to reach the quarter­ Santana of Spain and· three  
Czechoslovak, defending cham­ finals, Srejber spent the entire  Australians -john Newcombe,  
pion and top-seeded Ivan LendL  match hitting his volleys long or  Fred Stolle and Roy Emerson - 
against fourth-seeded Stefan Ed­ into the net -when he did make  advanced to the final four.  
berg of Sweden.  an effort to go for the ball.  The women's semifinals field  
Several times Becker hit weak  is only a little bit better, Lloyd  
Earlier yesterday, Mecir  service returns across the net  being the only native American.  
eliminated No. 7 Joakim  only to see Srejber look at the  Navratilova was born in Czechos­ 
Nystrom of Sweden 6-4, 6·2, 3-6,  baiL turn around and walk back  lovakia but became a naturalized  
6-2.  to the baseline to serve the next  American citizen in 1981.  
The women's singles semi­ point.  Just color the U.S. open red,  
finals on Friday will send top­ In the third set the crowd  white and blue -the colors of the  
seeded Martina Navratilova,  cheered Srejber every time he  Czechoslovakian flag.  
seeking her third U.S. open title  won a point. They didn't cheer  On Thursday, Navratilova  
in four years, against No. 3 Steffi  often.  reached the final of both the wo­ 
Graf of West Germany, and No.  It is the third time the 18-year­ men's doubles and the mixed  
2 Chris Evert Lloyd, a six-time  old Becker has reached the final  doubles.  

~ Student Government, Class Officers, ~ OrAanization Officers, Dorm Councils, -tc Section Leaders, Outstanding -tc Individuals, Average Individuals, -tc Borderline Cases, Nerds and Mere

~ Shadows of Mortal Beings... 
t BE A PARTY HERO! Justeasierto)MIYfoc 
•

Even if_you didn't scart colbeonasc;holanhip. you 
-tc At your next social
-tc gathering bring in me,-tc The Commissioner of 
could finish on one. Army TtarcScholanhipa 
PlY forfull tuition and allOwances foreducational 
-tc Fun to provide
lees and textbooks. Alon2 with up to Sl,OOO 
~ great music on a great
ayear. Get all the fKts. IE ALL YOU CAN BE. 
~ sound system. It will 
• cost less than you thin 
~

• ­
ARMY RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS 
.. 


The Ohscn·cr;-f'·· 
The Observer 



Bo gives Notre Dame advantage 
Associated Press 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. -Michigan Coach Bo Schembechler says Notre Dame will have the advan­tage when the two teams open their football season Sept. 13, despite the fact that the Wol­verines are ranked No. 2 in the nation. 
The problem, as Schem­bechler sees it, is that Notre Dame has not one, but two new coaches. It's well-known that former Minnesota Coach Lou Holtz has taken over for Gerry Faust. What is less well-known is that former Pittsburgh Coach Foge Fazio has signed on as de­fensive coordinator for the Fight­ing Irish. 
"The Notre Dame team is a talented ballclub, Schembechler said at a luncheon yesterday."! know the personnel there. I tried to recruit most of those players. Theyre all fundamentally sound. Theyll be a good team. 
"That will be a big plus, 

.. 
knowing their players, because we dont know exactly what Lou will do. We know hes sound, though. 
"More important, we dont know what defense theyll use with Fazio. He may put in the Pitt defense or they may use the Min­nesota concept." 
Schembechler said his coaches watched Notre Dame in spring drills, but said that wasn't very telling. 
They played a 7-2 defense, the Michigan coach said. My word, you might as well have conl£ and watched us in spring drills. 
"With a new defensive guy, youre really getting it on both sides. Well be sparring out there for a while, probably. We'll go in with a plan and go. But, if we see that isn't working, we're going to change it fast and go with some­thing else. So, it's important in 
this situation that  we  hiwe vet­ 
eran players."  
Schembechler  said  the  task  

would be somewhat easier if the 

Michigan head football coach Bo Schembechler thinks his team could be in for a difficult contest against Notre Dame next weekend. The above story details Schembechler's thoughts on the 1986 Irish. 

Open 1 Dar• a Week 2 Locations: 

Welcome Back Students 
Lunches startin& at•••• _._s2.95 Dinners startin& at•• ______s4.25 
lar open 7 day1 a week 
game in South Bend, Ind., weren't the opener. That means nobody gets a chance to see what changes Holtz might make with his players. 
"I know Lou and I know how he thinks, Schembechler said. But his personnel may force him to do some things he normally doesnt like to do. We are by no means ruling out the option. He may switch quarterbacks and go from Steve Beuerlein (a passer) to Terry Andrysiak Ia better run­ning quarterback)." 
On the nip side of the win, Schembechler worries that Holtz knows all there is to know about the Michigan team because he coached against the Wolverines the past few years when he was at Minnesota. 
" Lou knows our football. He knows our players," Schem­bechler said."Hes played them for two years. 
"Theres no doubt that from a scouting standpoint, the advan­tage is to Notre Dame." 

Irish 
continued/rom page 16 

1-9 record last year. But the third-year coach of the Irish is not taking any chances on a let­down. 
"It concerns me a great deaL he said. It would be a sin if we 
didnt  play  our  best  this  
weekend."  
Minnesota  is somewhat  of  a  
mystery  to  Notre  Dame.  The  

Golden Gophers compiled a 15­
Agreat pizza is getting harder and harder to find. 
But bere It Ia. Great tuty CnJSl Lui· douluuce. Real cbMae, erated fresh. 

52920 U.S. 31 N 277-5880 
r--------------COUPON--------------1 
Friday and Saturday Coupon Special Large for Price of Medium 
Good for Corry out or delivery Delivery and tax extra Not valid with any other offer 
Delivery untll11 :00 pm weekdays ~~her's 2:00am on Friday and Saturday 

PIZZa. 

Expires 9/19/86 ;.t:d_::ia 
L----------------------------------­

-------------~------------------------~----­
Friday, September 5, 1986-page 12 

4-I record last year, but were per/keeper was injured when he never ranked in the Great Lakes got tangled wit11 a Wisconsin­region. This is the first soccer Milwaukee player and fell on the contest ever between the two right shoulder. He joins sopho­schools. more midficldcr Scan Toomey on the sidelines, who must sit 
IRISH JTt:MS: Irish co-captain out the entire season after un­.Jim Flynn is out of the lineup for dergoing knee surgery during four to six weeks due to a the SUllllllCr. separated shoulder. The stop­
-


-­ ---­- 
------~~---­--------------.---------~--~­-~--­ ---------~--·-----------~­ 
The Observer  Friday, September 5, 1986-page 13  



Top grid games on tap 
The Observer­
Attention Saint Mary's Students 
The Independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Is now accepting applications for the following position: 


Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Alabama quarterback Mike Shula tries to get 
Questions about this position should be directed to Margie Kersten 
away from Ohio State's Chris Spielman in 
(284-5230), (239-5303). Application deadline Is Tuesday, September 9,
the Crimson Tide's victory over Ohio State 
at5PM. 

NEED $ FOR FALL BREAK? NEED S TO GO HOME FOR THE HOLIDAYS? 

UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICES BETTER THAN EVER! NOW HIRING A FEW AMBITIOUS STUDENTS • • • 

Positions Available are: 
Waiters Waitresses Bartenders Attendants 
Casual Employment Catering Positions 
Associated Press 
The calendar says summer is still here but from the looks of Saturday's attractive college football schedule it could be Jan. I just as easily as Sept. 6. 
Any bowl would be delighted with such matchups as No. I Oklahoma vs. No. 4 UCLA, No. 3 Miami vs. No. 13 Florida and No. 8 Nebraska vs. No. I I Florida State. 
In addition, Alabama tries to continue its winning ways in a battle with Vanderbilt. The Tide downed Ohio State in the Kick­Off Classic by a 16-I 0 score. 
Whatever happened to the days when teams would open against what prize fighters call an opponent -someone who might give you a workout for a while but turns out to be a guaranteed victory? 
UCLA is the highest ranked team the Sooners have faced in an opener since 1968 when they lost to No. 3 Notre Dame 45-2 I. 
API'IIoto­

last week. The Tide takes on Vanderbilt in one of a number of big college football games tomorrow. Story at right. 
.. 
Were a better football team 
than we were that day,· jokes 
Coach Barry Switzer, who was 
Oklahoma's offensive coordina­
tor back then. 
And for the second year in a row UCLA opens on the road against the defending national champion (the Bruins defeated Brigham Young 27-24 last • season). 
"The Oklahoma ~wme is a big game nationally," says Coach Terry Donahue, who was the de­fensive line coach at Kansas from 
1967-70 (Oklahoma beat the Jayhawks in each of those four years but three of them were 4­point games)." Its an exciting event. The players want to play Oklahoma. I dont think we're any c-Hrferent than anybody else. 
"But its not going to be a na­tional championship shootout for me. It might be for other people; its not for me. I'd rather win a (Pac-I 0) conference game than a non-conference game." 

Cal I the Central Administration of University Food Services at l39-7254 to apply. 
The Observer 


Line 
continuedfrom page 16 
wait until we play somebody other than our own." 
"I think Banks is go,~ng to have an outstanding year, said Head Coach Lou Holtz."And Kleine is coming on very strongly. Both of them have been very impressive. But. whatever we do, weve got to create more pressure on the other guys quarterback." 

At the nose tackle slot will be senior Mike Griffin, who sat out spring practice while recovering from a severely broken ankle last August. 
"Griffins seemed to have had a full recovery,· said Yonto.'' He looks like his old self. Were very pleased with him.· 
"Its nice to see Griffin back at middle guard,' said Holtz."Aiong with Banks and Kleine, those three give us prettv good size and good strength." 
Backing up Banks and Kleine at the tackle spots will be juniors Jeff Kunz and Matt Dingens. Fighting for the second spot be­hind Griffin at nose tackle are sophomores Tom Gorman and Marty Lippincott. both converted from the offensive line. 
"lm pleased with Lippincott and Gorman who switrhed from of­fense,' said Yont0~· Theyre both doing a fine job, and they give us some depth and size in the middle. And Kunz and Dingens at the tackles -I cant say enough about them." 
"Kunz, Dingens, Gorman and Lippincott give us a little bit of depth, and were going to need that.· said Holtz." we were really concerned about depth at defen­sive line, but weve been pleased with the development at that po­sition.· 
"I certainly feel a Jot better than I did in the sprinY:'said Yonto~'l feel weve plugged some holes, 
strengthened  ourselves  by  
moving people.  
"fhese  seven  people  have  

worked extremely hard, not that others havent. Its just that these seven have emerged on top right now.' 
And if they can emerge from on top of opposing quarterbacks more often this year, so much the better. 


The Observer is now ac­cepting applications for the position of: 

Driver 
Van driver needed to deliver papers around campus. This is a paid position. 
If interested, please sub­mit your application to The Observer, 3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center 


The Proof Is fn the Taste! 
Pizm-Sond&Dfcha-Salada 
B«r& Wine 
277-2020 
t.oc:.ffNI ............. 
(N.st to......... 

---------~--~~------~-~ ------~-~---­
Friday, September 5, 1986-page 14 







Sports Briefs 
The Notre Dame Women's Soccer Club will be opening its season Saturday against Indiana University and then taking on the University of Illinois. Both games are at Bloomington. The Observer 
The Notre Dame varsity crew team practices Monday at the boathouse at either 5: 15 or 6:45 p.m. for ERA test. Contact Chris Nyc if unable to attend. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team holds its first annual golf outing Saturday at I p.m. on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. Anyone interested in playing should call Dick Milone at 289­46 I 3 or Doug Spencer at 283-2095. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Judo Club holds its first practice Sunday from 2-4 p.m. in Room 2 I 9 Rockne. Beginners should wear loose clothing with long sleeves and any newcomers are welcome. Further information may be obtained by contacting Rob Detzner at 232-6917 or Sara Harty at 3427. -The Ob­server 
Angela Athletic Facility is looking for people interested in being officials for nag football. Officials earn $5 per game. Anyone interested should contact Mary Lou Thompson at 284-5546. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Windsurfin~ Club will be giving free windsurfin~ lessons tod<J}' at 3:30 p.m. on the beach of St. Joe's Lake. t"urther information may be obtained by contact­in~ Carter Thomas at 1605. · The Observer 
A demonstration of Northern Shaolin Kung t"u is scheduled, alon~ with a meeting. for S<iturday al 6 p.n1. in room 2 19 Rockne. A ci<Jss will he offered soon with exercises, self­delense techniques and forms Jrom the Northern Sil Lum Dragon style bein~ taught. t"urther information may be ob­tained by contactin~ David Scott at 3084. -The Observer 
All prospective members of the Saint Mary's varsity basket­ball team arc asked to attend a meeting at Angela Athletic Facility Monday at 6 p.m. · The Observer 
A Student Athletic Council picnic is scheduled for Wednes­day, Sept. 10, from 6-7 p.m.·outsidc An~ela Athletic Facility for all Saini Mary's v<Jrsity <Jthletes and prospective varsity athletes. -The Observer 
ATTENTION ENTERTAINERS! 
bands, clj's, comedians ... 
ANY ACT 
We need performers for 
LaFortune's Newest Attraction 

CURIOUS???
Come Check us out... 

Contact Tom Utter, Programming Manager
2nd floor LaFortune X4245
Opening this Fall 





~~-~--~ 






~c:tcJlC3L~------------------------------------------~F~ri-da-y,-Se-p-tem~b-er-5~,1~98~6--~pa~ge~l5


Friday ..... Wine Coolers $1 
Saturday....... Little Kings drafts so~ 
Memberships and applications can be picked up at The Club! 
Come on by this weekend! 
Rentals -call Linda Ward at 277-6524 
'AMERICAN

~CANCER 
'SOCIE1Y~ 
Unitedway
• 


SAB Presents ****************** ~ ~
•~ Out of Afri-ca ~ ~ 
~ 

~ 
Friday, September 5th ~ 
~ ~
Saturday, September ·6th
~ ~ 
~ 
~

7:00pm & 10:00 pm
~ 
~ Cost: $1.50 ~ Engineering Auditorium No Food or Drink Allowed 
• 

• 
"Out! Everyone out! ... I've had it with this 'symbiosis' baloney!" 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 

1 Romantic isle  
5 Certain golf  
tournament  
10 Coil  
14 "-for All  
Seasons"  
15 USSR money  
16 Ariz. city  
17 Stooped  
20 "A Passage  
to-"  
21 Cut the lawn  
again  
22 Rei.  
23 Gun gp.  
25 Bismarck's  
state: abbr.  
27 "The -is the  
shortest way  
home"  
35 Epoch  
36 A Copperfield  
37 Large book  
38 Friar  
40 Goddesses  
of destiny  
43 Board game "1986 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 9/5/86 
All Rights Reserved44 Release,  
as water  
46 Linen  7 Reed  
48 Humans  8 Graduate  
49 Heads for home  9 Tune  
53 Certain salad  1 0 Caustic  
54 By way of  11 Possessive  
55 -longa...  12 Bhuddist  
58 Musical  sacred mount  
instrument  13 Rocket bases  
61 Amerinds  18 Ventured  
65 Finally  19 Sleepy e.g.  
reaching  24 Beginning  
68 Hodgepodge  with  
69 Adjusted  26 Eccentric one  
70 N.C. college  27 Mammal of  
71 Circular  Madagascar  
course  28 Maine town  
72 Golfer Sam  29 Rhea  
73 Urges  30 --Ia-Ia  
31 Observe  9/5/86  
DOWN  32 Muslim  47 Farewell  57 Ado  
1 Adriatic port  theologians  50 New Orleans  59 Narrow way  
2 Thebes deity  33 Baseball teams  team  60 Surface  
3 Praise  34 "Lorna -"  51 Like a Western  62 Useless  
4 Baseball  39 Okla. neighbor  hero?  63 Collar  
division  41 Silkworm  52-Google  64 Children  
5 Twos: abbr.  42 Maid: abbr.  55 Eager  66 Digit  
6 Ger. valley  45 1556  56 Depend  67 Singular  






Friday, September 5, 1986 -page 16 

................................................. 
I ~ I 
I ! 
t 
P' 



After big victory in season opener, ND soccer team is home for two 
By PETE GEGEN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame soccer team will open its home schedule this weekend with two games on Alumni Field. 
The Irish will first host the Boilermakers of Purdue on Sat­urday, and the Golden Gophers of Minnesota will provide the competition on Sunday. Both games start at I p.m. 
The team enters this weekend's action fresh off its vic­tory over the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee. Because the Panthers were ranked third in the Great Lakes region, the Irish ar~ excited about their po­tential for a successful season. 
"We have the potential to be very good,"said Head Coach Den­nis Grace."The chemistry of the 
team is good right now. That should help us alot." 
The team is playing remarkably well together at this point early in the season. 
"The teamwork improved in the victory," noted Grace. " They worked hard, played hard, and hung in together." 
One player who has noticed the difference is goalkeeper Hugh Breslin. Breslin faced 15 shots on goaL saving six in regis­tering the shutout. 
''I was really confident in the defense," he said." With Johnny Guignon, Steve Lowney, and Pat 
Szanto  we  are  really  experi­ 
enced."  
It was Guignon who,  besides  

playing excellent defense. in­itiated the offensive attack which led to the only goal of the game. 
"It was Johnny who dribbled the ball around and passed it to th~ 
Senior right tackle Wally Kleine and the Notre Dame defen­sive line will be looking to put some pressure on opposing quarterbacks this season. Eric Scheurmann takes a look at the men in the trenches in his story at right. 
right side to Kevin Kade,"noted Irish forward Bruce Tiger McCourt, who scored the goal. "That opened up the left side, so 
I took the far post." 

The ball was centered, and 
Irish forwards Randy Morris and 
Dave Augustyn went for the 
header, luring the keeper from 
the net. The ball sailed over, and 
McCourt headed it home. 

"It was really pretty easy:' he ad­
mitted. 

The tally was a good omen for 
McCourt, who had been feeling 
the pressure to score goals. He 
said that he felt he was in a slump 
all last season, scoring only 6 
goals on 45 shots in 22 games. 
The Irish hope to keep up the 
intensity this weekend. The 
feeling is that the team should 
beat Purdue, which had only a 
see IRISH, page 12 


Sophomore John Guignon and the Irish soccer team open the 1986 home season with games against Purdue and Min­nesota this weekend. Pete Gegen has details at left. 
Irish look to defensive linemen for improved pass rush in 1986 season 
By ERIC SCHEUERMANN 
Sports Writer 

Perhaps the most vivid memory Notre Dame football fans have of last season is that of an opposing quarterback standing in the pocket with un­limited time to pick apart the Irish secondary. 
Defensive Line Coach Joe Yonto, who coached past Irish lines from 1964 to 1980, hopes this year's scenario will be differ­ent. 
"The pass rush is one of the most important things weve been working on,' said Yonto~'To help our coverage weve got to get a pass rush. You know what happens if you dont get to the passer, so we've made getting to him one of our top priorities. 
"Were happy tints far, but until we play against an opponent we really cant tell. We hope t11e pass rush is coming along-put it thai way." 
One of the most important new faces on the Irish defensive line is senior Robert l~anks at left tackle. Banks was moved up from linebacker last spring. when tt1e new lrisl1 coaching staff was faced with a shortage of linemen. 
Banks, having bulked up a bit since then, has not disappointed his coach. 
"Again, its difficult to tell before we play somebody, but were ex­tremely pleased with Banks' progress solar," sdid Yon to~· tics worked hard ancl clone every­tiling wevc asked him to. He seems to have all tile necessary tools to play on tile line. tlc'll help oul with his quickness for the p<lss rush ami also will give us some more speed on tile line." 
Senior Wally Kleine will again occupy tile right tackle spot. At 6-9 and 274 pounds. he gives the Irish an imposing look on that side. 
"Klcincs worked ext remel) hard, and hcs got a great attitude just like the other guys," said Yonto." Hell do some very good things for us -well just have to 
see LINE, page 14 


New building, facilities in works to benefit students 
It won't be long until yet another construction proj­
ect begins on the Notre Dame campus. Land has 
already been cleared north of the Courtney Tennis 
Courts in order to begin construction on an indoor 
practice facility for Irish teams. 
This new facility will include a new weight room 
for all varsity athletes, an artificial-turf football-sized 
practice field, a track, batting cages, conference 
rooms and storage areas, according to Athletic Direc­
tor Gene Corrigan. Corrigan also mentioned the pos­
sibility of adding nets to create driving ranges for 
the golf team. There will be conference rooms in the 
new building but no offices other than a building 
manager's office. 

"Itil free up the whole area (in the ACCs north dome) 
for student use during the afternoon and evening 
hours," said Corrigan~' I til free up the present weight 
room for student use, and well have a student weight 
room at each end of the campus." 
Corrigan said that an important factor during the 
planning stages of the facility was that the building 
b~ functional without being extravagant. 
"Its not going to be an attractive building.· he said, "but it wont be entirely ugly. The architects are going to great pains to have it decent.· 
For those who might think this is being built solely 
because of the arrival of Lou Holtz (who had a new 
practice facility built when he assumed the head slot 
at Minnesota), Corrigan said this building has been 
under consideration for the past five years, and it is 
only now that the plans have been finalized. 
The footings on the new tennis building also have 
been laid. Corrigan said that when the two new build­
ings are completed, a new track has been laid and 
stands have been added to it through Special Olym­
pics." well have everything.' 

It shouldn't surprise anyone that so much building 
has taken place in the athletic department during 

Dennis Corrigan Sports Editor 

Corrigan's stewardship. During his nine years as Vir­
ginia's athletic director, a new baseball stadium, a 
tartan-surface track and an intramural recreation 
complex were built. the tennis facilities were ex­
panded and 14,000 seats were added to the football 
stadium. 

The new athletic facilities at Notre Dame should 
be a great benefit to varsity athletes but more so to 
students, who will now have more recreational space 
that is more convenient to use. 

On the other side of sports, this week's James Watt 
shoot-yourself-in-the-foot award goes to Sports Il­
lustrated and the NCAA for the report that Notre Dame 
was under investigation because former Irish football 
players Allen Pinkett and Greg Dingens appeared in 
television ads promoting the Army. It's turned out 
that there are some pretty embarrassed people at 
both organizations. The NCAA has since called Notre 
Dame to apologize for the statement, saying that 
whoever said that shouldn't have. According to Cor­
rigan, the ads were were cleared with the NCAA before 
they aired. "lhe NCAA and Sports lllustrat~d have their foots in 
their mouths," said Corrigan." It was a mistake on 
both sides. Sports Illustrated got wrong information, 
and it renects bad on them." 
Sometimes, you have to wonder. 

In the believe-it-or-not category, just when you 
think that the NCAA is starting to really take serious 
action against major violators, 53 -count 'em -53 
members of the Nebraska football team face one­
game suspensions and seven others face two-game 
suspensions because they gave away their game tick· 
ets to people other than family members or students. 
Nebraska faces the possibility of forfeiting a game 
somewhere along the line this season, pending an 
appeal. When players at other schools are convicted 
of stealing stereos, drunk driving and drug posses­
sion and are still allowed to play, this NCAA ruling 
seems not only harsh but absurd. 
In the kudos category, congratulations to Ticket Manager Mike Bobinski and his staff for running a much smoother ticket distribution this year than in previous years. Sales were forced to move to gate .l 0 rather than gate three because of another event in the ACC Field House. This move turned out to to be a God's send because it allowed sale from five windows rather than three. Ombudsman's idea to distribute tickets to those in line at I p.m. to avoid a mad rush to the doors when they opened also deserves congratulations. Everyone who stood through the long. slow lines in previous years had to appreciate the ease of this year's distribution. 
And finally in the good luck category, former Nolte Dame head coach Gerry raust takes to the field to­morrow in his first game as head coach of the Akron Zips. Akron has shattered its record for season-ticket sales and enthusiasm is running high. This week there was to be a continuous football toss on campus, a Faust sound-alike contest (where are you Eddie White?) and members of a fraternity were run­ning the game ball from Salem (W. Va.) College back to Akron. The Zips arc moving from Division 1-M to l·A next year and want all the exposure they can gel because of t"aust. If there was ever a man who deserved some good fortune, it's Gerry Faust. 
Good luck, Coach. 





