IRISH EXTRA -INSIDE 


Drum captain John Zic leads, from right to Vanetten and Paul Loughridge of the Notre is trying to drum up cheers for the Irish at left. Mike Ramsden, Dave Scott, Mark Dame Band percussion snare line. The octet the MSU game. Taylor, Brian Peterson; Sam Sangster, Mark 
Hesburgh forms business grants committee 
By PEGGY PROSSER Staff Reporter 
A national committee of busi­ness executives has been formed by University President Father Theodore Hesburgh to assist the University in soliciting grants from major corporations. 
Michael Kenahan, director of foundation and corporate rela­tions for the University, said the National Corporate Grants Com­mittee will not meet as a whole, but will endorse proposals made by the University. 
"We do the ground work in terms of contacting the corpora­tions and submitting the proposals, and they (the commit· tee) are there to back us up," said Kenahan. 
"They will serve to help us in our fundraising with major cor­porations around the country," he said. 
The specific amount of money sought has not been deter· mined, but Kenahan quoted a starting figure of "about $1 0 mil­lion." 
The committee members are geographically distributed across the nation in the hope that each member's corporation will attract other nearby corporations to the University's projects, said Kenahan. 
Kenahan said many of the cor­porations would be giving only 

· for the sake of helping Notre 
Dame. 
"It is a good investment on 

their part in helping Notre Dame 
to become a better school and 
improving Notre Dame pro­
grams," said Kenahan. 
Citing national competition for 

grants, Kenahan said many uni­
versities, such as Purdue and In­
diana, attract large corporate 
sponsorships by supplying the 
companies with their graduates. 
He said one company, General 
Motors, contributes heavily to 
Purdue and then hires many of 
the university's engineering 
graduates. 
Notre Dame will improve 

facilities and programs by pro-

Buzz bus carries buzzed students 
By KATHY ROE Staff Reporter 
Knowing that nothing is worse than the hassle of finding a ride home after a night off-campus, the Hall Presidents' Council has come up with a new idea: the Buzz Bus. 
The bus service operates every weekend on Friday and Saturday nights between midnight and 3:00a.m. Running on half hour cycles, the Buzz Bus stops first at Senior Bar and then travels on to the Five Points' area.. 
From there, the route runs past the corner of Howard and St. Louis streets and Notre Dame apartments. Stops on campus in­clude the Main Circle, St. Mary's in front of Holy Cross, and the Library Circle. The bus' final stop is along Ivy Road near Campus View and Turtle Creek apart­ments. 
Students can get on at any point along the route for the cost of twenty five cents, said HPC Co­chairman Joanie Cahill. 
She said, however, that stu­dents cannot get off at either Senior Bar or the Five Points' area because the service is not meant to support the bar scene. 
The idea for Buzz Bus was in­troduced to the Hall Presidents' Council last spring in response to increased concern about stu­dents driving after drinking, said Cahill. 
She said similar services spon­sored at other universities pro­vided the basic model. 

Cahill said the program's aim is to assure students a safe ride home. Cahill also noted that when students get separated from their friends during an eve' ning out, they do not have to worry about being stranded. 
Having been in progress for the past two weekends, the Buzz Bus program has had consider· able success, serving over 200 students, said Cahill. 
But Cahill hopes for increased ridership as student awareness of the program develops. If its success continues, she said the service will be extended to Thursday nights. 
Plans are also in the works for the sale of passes that grant stu­dents a specified number ofrides aboard the Buzz Bus. 
viding improved computer facilities, endowed professor­ships, and Memorial Library im· provements through the assis­tance of the committee, said Kenahan. 
All of these improvements, Kenahan said, would benefit stu­dents and the corporations for 
see GRANTS, page 5 
Reagan veto of sanctions overridden 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON The Senate voted 78-21 Thursday to over­ride President Reagan's veto of tough new sanctions against South Africa, joining the House in enacting measures designed to force Pretoria's white-minority government to abandon apar­theid. 
In dealing Reagan one of the most dramatic foreign policy set­backs of his presidency, and the first substantive override of a Reagan veto, the Senate rebuffed administration pleas that the punitive economic sanctions would prove most harmful to South Africa's blacks. Five previ­ous Reagan vetos, on lesser .is­sues, had been reversed. 
Despite fierce lobbying by Reagan and other White House officials, and members of the Senate supportive of the qllmin· istration's policy, the final vote showed the president falling 13 votes short of the 34 needed to sustain the veto. 
Forty-seven Democrats and 31 Republicans voted to override Reagan, while 21 GOP law­makers voted to back Reagan. Sen. Jake Gam, R-Utah, who recently donated one of his kid­neys to a daughter, was absent. 
In a statement issued from the White House, Reagan said that despite his objections to the measure, "Our administration will, nevertheless implement the law. It must be recognized, however, that this will not solve the serious problems that plague that country." 
Vice-President George Bush, presiding over the Senate, an­nounced that the Senate's sanc­tions measure had passed, "the 
see SANCTIONS, page 4 


SMC weekend set to begin 
By KATIE SULLIVAN 
News Staff 

The fathers of more than 200 St. Mary's seniors will grace the College's campus this weekend as the fourth-an­nual Senior Fathei!Daughter Weekend gets underway, ac­cording to Jennifer Hirschfield, chairperson of the event. 
"This is one of the most im­portant weekends for seniors," she said. "It is the first time a lot of the fathers will be spending a weekend with just their daughters." 
Events for Friday night in­clude Irish singer John Ken­nedy, who will be performing at Haggar Center from 7:30­
10 p.m., and dancing after­wards at Senior Bar. 
Saturday's events begin with a father/daughter golf tournament on Notre Dame's course. Tee off is 8 a.m. 
A tailgater will also be held Saturday in Haggar Center for the Alabama-Notre Dame game. Brats, hot dogs and beer will be served. Three large-screen televisions will be available for watching the game. 
Casino Night begins at 9 
p.m Saturday in the Angela Athletic Facility Club. Hirschfield said the event will have play gambling and horse racing, dancing, and food and drink. 
Each father and daughter will receive $10,000 in play money which can be gambled away or used to buy raffle tick· ets. 
. "This should be the high· light of the weekend," said Hirschfield. 
.The weekend will conclude Sunday with a I 0 a. m mass at The Church of Loretta fol­lowed by a brunch in the Dining Hall. 
"I hope everyone attends this and all the events," said Hirschfield. 



The Observer 

Of Interest 
Of Interests and Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor ofLafortune Student Center before I p.m. on the day prior to publication. Of Interests and Briefs are also accepted through the mail. Send announcements to The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556. -The Observer 
"On Exhibit," an artist's cooperative, will hold an opening reception for Mary Biek and Gregg Crandall tonight from 7 to 10 in the I 07 W. Monroe St. gallery. The show, "People in Darkness," presents photographer and co-op member Crandall's recent photographs of El Salvador. Mary Biek. a Notre Dame graduate,show her latest ceramic installation. Regular gallery hours are Saturday and Sunday from 12 to 4, with the show closing Sunday, October 26. -The Observer 
The Circle K Clubs of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are hosting the Indiana District Conference today through Sun­day. Leadership and other workshops will be held all day Saturday in the Memoriai Library auditorium. Everyone is welcome to attend. -The Observer 
A monthly liturgy for the Hispanic community will be cel­ebrated this Sunday morning at I I in the Farley Hall chapel. Father Bob Pelton, C.S.C., will preside at the mass which is sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns. All are welcome. -The Observer 
A recital of chamber music will be performed by Lauro Klugherz on Sunday at 4 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium in Notre Dame's Snite Museum of Art. The concert will feature the Septet by Beethoven, Due for Violin and Bass by Bottesini and Contrasts by Bartok. The concert is free and open to the public. -The Observer 
Shelter for the Homeless will be conducting it training sessions for those interested in volunteering on Sunday and Sunday, October 12 from 7 to 9 p.m. at Fatima Retreat Center. New volunteers need to attend one of the sessions. For more information, call John at 283-1666 -The Observer 
Student photo I.D. cards are now available for those stu­dents who had their I.D. photographs taken between August 22 and September 12. The cards may be picked up Monday through Friday at the Registar's Office, 2 15 Administration Building. from 8:30 to 4:00 p.m. Students must return their two temporary I. D. cards in order to pick up the new cards. There will be a $5 charge for each lost temporary card. If the Vali-dine card is lost. the I. D. photograph will have to be retaken. -The Observer 
Weather 
The future is cloudy as today offers a 40 percent chance of showers with highs in the low to mid 70s. Tonight and tomorrow feature ari increasing chance of showers with lows in the low 60s and highs in the low to mid 70s. 

Design Editor ......... Chris Bowler Design Assistant . ... Cathy Stacy .... Layout Staff, ........ Andy Fenoglio Typesetters . ........... Michael Buc News Editor . .......... Cliff Stevens Copy Editor ........... Bud Luepke Sports Copy Editor . ...... Todd Bell, Cool Papa Bell (w), .................... Taco Bell (Sv) Viewpoint Layout .. .. Kathleen Moran Campus Scene Editor ...... Ed Nolan 
Color in today's newspaper was provided through the generosity of Anheuser-Busch, Inc. 
1be Obeerver ( l ·s..S ~99 l·-tOOO) is publish~d Monday through Friday exc~pl during ~xam and vacation ~riods. 1beObeerver is publisMd by IM stud~nls ofth~ l 'niv~rsity n1 Noett Dam~ and Saini Mary's CollcF. 
1be OllwrYer is a m~mMr of 1be A..ocfated PreN. All r~roduclinn righL• are 
rest'"\'ed. 
-· ' 
.................... Eric Bergamo Campus Scene Layout . Heather Hypes ..................... Karen Webb Typists . .............. Esther Ivory ND Day Editor . .... Noreen O'Connor SMC Day Editor . ... , ... Karin Radar Irish Extra Layout Kathleen McKernan Photographer ........ Paul Oeschger Artists . ............. Laura Stanton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . Margaret Bruns 
~--------~--------~--­
Friday, October 3, 1986, -page 2 




Senior Father /Daughter Weekend more than just th~ events planned 
Senior FathelJDaughter weekend. What does it 
mean? For me it is a time to reflect on the past 
and share a lifetime of memories with my father. 
I look back on the past four years and I can't 
believe it has gone so fast. I remember my senior 
year of high school like it was yesterday. I was 
confused about the future and I remember looking 
to my father for advice.about where to go to col­
lege, and basically what to do with my life. I re­
member some of the guidelines he set for me; l 
hi'ld to attend a Catholic college and I had to take 
a year of accounting. As it ended up l spent my 
freshman year at Iowa State University --much to 
my father's dismay. After that year. I realized I 
had to "get serious" about my education. I wanted 
to learn and not just get by. I then turned to my' 
father for more advice, which he willingly gave to 
me. I transferred to Saint Mary's. He never said, 
"I told you so," but only encouraged me to excel 
in my new school. 
Senior FathelJDaughter Weekend is not only going to senior bar for a dance contest. or watch­ing the Alabama-Notre Dame game, or even going to Casino Night. It is also a time of reflection. I reflect on the first dance I had with my father; when he attempted to teach me the waltz, while impatiently shouting. "Don't lead!" I also remem­ber the first Notre Dame game I watched with him --1 quickly learned the Notre Dame Victory March. 
I also remember my experiences in a casino. My first was when I was 14 and walked "on the carpet" in Las Vegas with my father. I also re­member gambling in Monte Carlo where he en­couraged me to double my bet each time in black 
jack; I was content betting the same amount each time. He's taught me to always strive to do the best I can do. I reflect upon these experiences and realize how much my father has given me and how much he has sacrificed on my behalf. He has taught me by his example and given me invaluable experiences. 
Now let's face it. We've all had fights, disagree­ments and completely different philosphies about life with our fathers. My father and I are no dif­ferent. He is 40 years my senior and I often feel the effects of the generation gap between us. Yet there is always a bond, because he is my father. This weekend will allow us to re-define that bond in our own words. Now, as a senior in college, I still look to my father for advice. What to do after graduation: graduate school? or a job? I feel 1am more mature and confident than I was as a senior in high school and through my father's examples and the education he has given me, I am able to realize more clearly, what I want to 
.achieve. My father has always been there for 
words of encouragement. Especially before final 
exams. I always receive a survival package -the · 
kind with apples, oranges, Trident Gum and other 
various kinds of food that is supposed to keep 
you sane during the long rigorous testing. In-

last night was bad, 
Love, WOSL 

just wait 'til tonight I 
Another Inexpensive B-day ad. 

Margie Kersten 
Saint Mary's Editor 

eluded in the packet is a note from my dad that reads, "If you don't pass, don't come home." He is also good about sending me letters --well semi­letters --more like a two-line note on the paper that says, "From the desk of... " He's always there to say, "Of course you can do it. what do you mean, you can't?" And of course, my friends and I always anxiously await the monthly box of candy he sends to me. 
This weekend gives me the opportunity to say thank you. Thank you for sacrificing. giving and being patient through my four different majors, my indesciveness about which college to attend and my inability to budget as well as I should. 
I look forward to the memories we will create this weekend. I realize being a senior not only means graduating and making my own life, but it also means finally cutting the rope; I will never live at home again. It will take an effort on both of our parts to keep in touch because it won't just happen by itself. This weekend can help start this effort and allow me to say I love you. 
You only turn 21 oncel 

·~ Godfathe:r·s Pizza~ Find one. It's worth it. TM 
TWO LARGE THIN CRUST ONE TOPPING EACH $9.99 plus tax &delivery 
~.
~~ FindoM -\.AE It's worth it. 
~:::::.=...:::a.:;~~ 
Offer expires 10/17/86



·------------------l-----------------4
We Deliver to a Limited Area 
338 Dunes Plaza Mleblgan City, Indiana 
874-5288 
L~RGEFOR 
MEDIUM-MEDIUM FOR SMALL 
Godfatha's 

Pizza . 
. Find OM It's wontl·ll. 


offer expires 10/17/86 

-------.------------~-----~-·----~---~--·-­
--~---~--~~------~~----­
The Observer Friday, October .3, 1986, -page .3 
University receives gift for business studies 
Special to the Observer 
The University of Notre Dame has received a $250,000 gift from the Donnelly Corporation of Holland, Mich., toward the es­tablishment of a special aca­demic program in participatory management studies within the University's College of Business Administration. 
The Mr. and Mrs. John Donnel­ly, Sr. Program in Participatory Management memorializes John Donnelly, Sr., chairman of the board of Donnelly Corp, who died last June, and his wife Kat­herine. Born May 16, 191 2 in Holland, Mich., Donnelly studied chemical engineering at Notre Dame and completed work on his B.S. degree at Catholic Uni­versity of America. 
In 1932, he began to work for Donnelly Corporation, a manu­facturer of automobile acces­sories which had been founded by his father, Bernard. He be­came president of the Corpora­tion in 1960 and chairman of the board a few years later. He and Mrs. Donnelly have three chil­dren. 
"John Donnelly's frequent em­phasis on the crucial role of respect for the dignity of all people in management makes it particularly appropriate that a Notre Dame program will be named after him," said Father Theodore Hesburgh, president of the University. 
A frequent lecturer on man­agement and organizational themes, Donnelly was also active in several trade, civic, and church organizations. At various times he served as president of the Na­tional Council of Catholic Men, the Holland Chamber of Com­merce, and the Holland Hospital board. 

Senior Marty Loesch ponders his future at the the CSC yesterday. Jeanne Olson (left) and Beth Post Graduate Opportunities exposition held at Dannick answer his questions. 

White House admits scare tactics 

Peppe~ane Unive~sit(Y 
Scbool o.,: Law 
wishes to announce that an admission officer will be on campus to speak with anyone interested in pursuing a legal education. To arrange for an interview or to attend a group session, contact the office listed below. 
DATE: Thursday, October 9, 1986 CONTACT: Career Planning & Placement Office 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Administration officials acknowledge the White House plotted to deceive Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi into thinking he faced a new round of U.S. bombing and a possible coup, but President Reagan in­sisted Thursday there was "not any plan of ours" to mislead the American people and the press. 
The aim of the secret plan was to convince Gadhafi that an American raid -such as the April 
15 attack by U.S. bombers against Tripoli and Benghazi ­was being planned against him, said administration sources who spoke on condition they not be identified. 
At the United Nations, Secre­tary of State George P. Shultz told a news conference Thursday night he sees nothing wrong with the use of disinformation cam­paigns to disorient opponents. 
"If I were a private citizen McMahon. 


The Washington Post reported in Thursday's editions that an elaborate White House campaign included "a disinformation pro­gram with the basic goal of making Gadhafi think that there is a high degree of internal op­position against him within Libya, that his key trusted aides are disloyal, that the U.S. is about to move against him militarily." 
The plan was described in a three-page memorandum sent to Reagan by John Poindexter, the president's national security adviser, and was adopted at a White House meeting Aug. 14, the Post said. 
The newspaper said the plan, as described in the memo, in­volved "a series of closely coor­dinated events involving covert, diplomatic, military and public actions." 
"Those (allegations) I chal­lenge," Reagan said in the inter­view, a partial transcript ofwhich was released by the White House. "They were not a part of any meeting I've ever attended. . .. This was not any plan of ours." 
Show NO or SMC student or staff ID and get a 10% discount 

18061 State Road 23 Near Ironwood ARMIDA KOBEK South Bend, Indiana 48837 "(219) 277·2870 

OFFICE OF 
UNMRSITYi 

MINfSW 

All students are invited to take part 
in a Bible study sharing which will begin Monday, Oct. 6 in Lewis Hall Chapel at 8:00 p.m. 
Call Kristen Strougal at 283-4173 or Fr. D'Alonzo at 239-5577 or 239-6919. 

reading about it and I read that my government was trying to confuse somebody who was con­ducting terrorist acts and mur­dering Americans, I'd say, 'Gee, I hope it's true,"' Shultz said. 
At another point, he said he knows of no decision "to have people go out and tell lies to the media." 
Meanwhile, the Senate Intelli­gence Committee staff con­ducted an immediate inquiry into whether the CIA had violated presidential prohibitions against planting phony stories with U.S. news organizations and reached a preliminary conclusion that no regulations were broken either in letter or spirit, said the commit­tee's staff director, Bernie 






CONTACT LENSES 


•Softmate Daily or Extended \Vear 
$3 9 • 9 8 

Contact Lenses 
Daily wear Power.< +7.00 to -1::!.00 E'tcnded wear Powers ol:tno to -6.00 per pair 
•Tinted Contact Lenses 2 Pairs for 
Daily or $99 98
Extended Wear • 
[!Jusch & Lomb \"atura!Tints or American llvdron 
An eye exam is required at the time of purchase. Not valid on prior orders and may not be combined with any other offers or discounts. Offer ends September 27, 1986. 
"Our cyewcar prices are the lowest in Indiana. and our eye care quality is unsurpassed. That's a promise from the doctor." 

1111 E Ireland Road ... 291-4000 in the Broadmoor Plaza 506 W McKinley....••258-5000 in the K-Mart/Martin Center 





---~--~~-~ 
The Observer Friday, October 3, 1986, -page 4 
Catholics from China totourND 
By MARGARET MONAHAN News staff 
A Catholic delegation from China will visit the University Oct. 4-7 as part of an 18-day trip in the United States to tour Catholic universities and meet Chinese Catholics living in the country. 
The I 0 members of the Chinese Catholic Friendship Delegation, including four bis­hops from Beijing. Shanghai and Wuhan, were invited by the As­

MONDAY, OCTOBER 6th:
sociation of Catholic Colleges and Universities to visit univer­
· Lithography Display Snite Museum 
9:00 until closing 

sities, like Notre Dame, that have 
St. Francis Shoppe Display Library Foyer 
scholarly exchange agreements 
9:00-4:00 

with Chinese institutions, accor­
Fireside Chat with 
ding to Richard Conklin, director of public relations. 
Dr. Thomas Swartz ISO Lounge 
12:00 (Europe)
Notre Dame was chosen be­

Ethnic Clubs on the Quad Fieldhouse Mall 
12:00-1:00

cause of its strong exchange pro­
grams with China, said Michael 
Russian Video New Orleans Room 
2:00-5:00'

Garvey, assistant director of 
Multicultural Dinners Dining Halls
public relations. 
4:45-6:45 
The Chinese leaders hope to 

Russian Lecture by 
get a glimpse of the life of an American Catholic and see how 
George Feifer Washington Hall 
7:00 

Catholic institutions are run, said Garvey. 
5! 
t1e also said the Association of 


TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7th: 0 
(')
Catholic Colleges and Univer­
"'C

... 
Lithography Display Snite Museum 110
sities is trying to gain insight on 
9:00 until closing 

Catholics from other nations, in 
c St. Francis Shoppe Display Library Foyer 0
9:00-4:00

this case China. 

£ c: 
Ethnic Clubs on the Quad Fieldhouse Mall :::::;:
This cultural and scholarly ex­

U) 12:00-1:00 
c:
CJ) ...change should increase lines of 
Multicultural Dinners Dining Halls
;: 4:45-6:45
communication and dialogue 
between the two countries, ac­
> Fireside Chat with 0­
cording to Garvey. 
=u Dr. Silvia Anadon ISO Lounge ~ 
Conklin said the delegation is 
7:00 (Latin America) 

en
interested in discussing pastoral problems and opportunities, es­
< c: g
-


WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 8th: 
pecially social action programs. 
CJ) 

c:
While at Notre Dame, the 

"'C Lithography Display Snite Museum ::::J
9:00 until closing 

delegation will meet the t1oly 
::::J 

g
Cross religious community, 
en St. Francis Shoppe Display Library Foyer 9:00-4:00
Chinese students and faculty; 
Ethnic Clubs on the Quad Fieldhouse Mall 
tour the campus and attend 
12:00-1:00 

mass at Sacred t1eart said Gar­
Fireside Chat with 
vey. Notre Dame is the second stop 
Dr. Mahir Daher ISO Lounge 
4:00 (Middle East) 

on the group's first trip to the 
Multicultural Dinners Dining Halls 
4:45-6:45

United States. They are arriving 
from San Francisco and will later 
Student Reception Snite Museum 
7:30-9:00 

go to Newark, New Jersey, New 
Movie: Running Brave esc
York and Washington D.C., said 
9:00 

Garvey. 
c: 

0 sa



·-
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 9th: 
c:
-c a.
Lithography Display Snite Museum 
N 9:00 until closing 


Sanctions 
·-c: CD 
St Francis Shoppe Display Library Foyer ::::J
continued/rom page 1 
9:00-4:00
c 

-
objections ofthe president ofthe 
Ethnic Clubs Fieldhouse Mall 
a 12:00-1:00
...

United States notwithstanding." 
Multicultural Dinners Dining Halls
0 4:45-6:45
The Mouse had voted .31.3-8.3 
U)

Monday to override Reagan's 
Fireside Chat with 
veto. 
-
c: 

Provost Timothy O'Meara ISO Lounge 
G) 8:00 
As a first step, the legislation 
"'C 

::::J

bans new investment and new 
en FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10th: 
bank loans. 
It also bars the importation 

-c Lithography Display Snite Museum 9:00 until closing 
into the United States of South 
c:


African steel, iron, coal, 
St. Francis Shoppe Display Library Foyer 9:00-4:00
0

uranium, agricultural products, 
;: 

Ethnic Clubs Fieldhouse Mall 
food, arms, ammunition and 
12:00-1:00
c 

military vehicles. And it transfers 
...c: Fireside Chat with 
the South African sugar quota to 


-
.5 G) 

Dr. Jim Bellis ISO Lounge 
the Philippines. 
12:00 (Africa) Multicultural Dinners Dining Halls 
4:45-6:45 Lecture by Bobby Mills Washington Hall a·oo 
As a campus rep you'D be responsible fur placing advertising materials on buUetin boards and working on 

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 11th: 
marketing programs for clients 
such as American Express, the 

Taste of Nations Stepan Cente1 
Navy, CBS and campus recruiters. Part-tiine work, 

8-8:30 International Music 
choose your own hours. No 
sales. Many of our reps stay 

8:30-9:30 African Dancers 
with us long after graduation. If 
you are self-motivated and a bit 

9:30-10 Polish Music Admission $2.00 
of an entrepreneur, caD or write for more information to: 

11:30 Breakdancers 
1-800-221-5942 (Central iune). 

10-1 :00 American Music Survey 
American Passage Network, 6211 W. Howard Street, Chicago, 1L 60648. 

Music by 

Cbiclco. DoUu. Los Anaelos. """ Yon.­



The Observer Friday, October 3, 1986, -page 5 

Man fires pistol at Indian leaders 
Campus Bible Fellowship 
Fri. 6:30p.m. challenging Bible study followed by refreshments. First time visitors always welcome. This week's speaker: Pastor Alex Konya; expos­itory Bible teacher from Mayflower Baptist Church. Topic: "The Victorious Christian" For info or rides, call 277-8471 

Summer Programs 14th Annual 
! 

ND-Smc Students Program 
London Rome 
May 20-June 14 June 14-July 13 Travel in Ireland, Travel in France, Scotland & France Germany & Switzerland 
Courses In art, business, education, English, history, and Hollan 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING: 
Oct. 14, 7 p.m., at 232 Moreau, SMC 
Come visit with last year's students over pizza For more info. contact Prof. Black 4460 or 272-3726 
c\0~1 ~!­
0, .... .-~ '·.
~\ J'· ~ 




JanlGica 

AnENTION all 
go1ng o S JAMAICA! E N 
Everyone must I 
have either a 0 R voter registration R S card or a certjfjed S 
birth certificate. 


Passports are acceptable as well. 
Report cites sharp rise of poor kids 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The number of poor childrenjumped 30 percent between 1979 and 1984, while participation rates in two key federal programs dropped sharply among America's im­poverished young, a congres­sional report said Thursday. 
The rate of participation in Head Start and Aid to Families with Dependent Children, or AFDC, under the Reagan admin­istration fell more than 20 per­cent during the five-year period 
Tues-Thurs  
2:30-3:30  
Call Dave at 1306  
South Bend Housing Authority  
Tues-Thurs  
4:00-5:00  
Call John at 1245  Any Questions?  
Call Tom at 1788  
LaSaUe Park Homes  
Mon-Wed  
- 4:30-5:30  
Call Todd at 1310  

r --. 
Neighborhood Study Help Program, Inc. 
Dedicated to building a future for the children of South Bend. 

NSHP is looking for students to tutor South Bend school children at the following centers: 
Marquette School 






§WEENEY 
Daily and Nighdy Spedals with free munchies 
Monday thru Friday 4:00-7:00 pm 
Monday thru Saturday 
10:00 pm ·Close 

as the number of poor children jumped from 9. 9 million to 12.9 
million, the study said. 
"The record growth in poverty among children has not been ac­companied by increased availability of key safety net pro­grams," said the report by the Democratic-run House Select Committee on Children, Youth and Families. 
"To the contrary, support pro­grams are not reaching the majority of those in need, are not most available where child poverty is greatest." 
But the report. entitled "Safety Net Programs: are They Reaching Poor Children?." drew blistering dissents from the panel's 10 Re­publican members. 
"By ignoring important facts and using faulty methodology (the report) disqualifies itself from serious consideration by those interested in improving our welfare programs," said a 33-page dissent signed by seven GOP members. 

Grants 
continuedfrom page 1 
which they eventually work. 
The members of the commit­tee are also chief contributors to the University, Kenahan said. They include: Donald Keough, chairman of Notre Dame's Board of Trustees and president and chief operating officer of the Coca-Cola Company, Donald P. Kelly, chairman and chief exec­utive officer of Beatrice Compan­ies, Inc., Roger E. Birk, chairman emeritus of Merrill Lynch and Company, and Robert W. Galvin, chairman of the board of Motorola, Inc. 
"Simply having such a commit­tee will lend a good deal of credibility to our efforts to enlist corporate support for Notre Dame, but we are particularly delighted that such an impres­sive group of business leader is willing to help us," said Hes­burgh in a press release sent out to the chief executive officers of each of the Fortune 500 compan­ies. 
Associated Press 
NEW DELHI, india -A man in an army uniform fired a homemade pistol Thursday at Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi and President Zail Singh, missing them but slightly wounding six other people. Authorities said the captured assailant did not belong to a terror group. 
The shooting triggered an in­vestigation into protection given the prime minister, who has been threatened repeatedly by Sikh separatists. Police said the gunman was not a Sikh. 
The government said several police assigned to protect Gandhi were suspended after the 
attack,  which  occurred  as  
Gandhi,  42, and the president  
left  a  prayer  service  com­ 

memorating the I 17th anniver­sary of the birth of Mohandas Gandhi. who led India's struggle for independence from Britain. 

Police said the attacker hid in heavy vines that covered a gazebo on the grounds of the Rajghat, or State Memorial, where the Mahatma was cremated. He fired a homemade pistol several times, they said. 
Two of the injured said they were standing next to Gandhi when the gunman fired, and were hit by pellets intended for the prime minister. 
Indian news agencies said the shots were fired as Singh was getting into a car and Gandhi and his wife, Sonia, stood nearby. Reporters who later surveyed the scene said the gazebo was about 50 yards from where the prime minister stood. 
Gandhi's security guards fired in the air around the gazebo and flushed out the attacker. Police said he was in his early 20s and wore an olive army uniform. 
The Home Ministry said he "changed his name several times" during questioning. 
The suspect was questioned by police but his motive was not clear. Police and government of­ficials said he did not belong to any terrorist groups. 
After the shooting, Gandhi ap­peared on government television and said smiling, "Everything is okay. There is nothing to tell." 
He then closeted himself with Home Minister Buta Singh, who is responsible for internal secur­ity, and other officials. Indian news agencies said they dis­cussed the security lapse and tightening protection for Gandhi. 
Gandhi is guarded by an elite sharpshooter unit, the National Security Guard, formed after Sikh bodyguards assassinated his mother, Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, in October 1984. 
Three civilians and three police officers were hit by pellets and suffered "minor and superficial" injuries, the Home Ministry said. 

Park Mall on Grape Road 
Join our "Around the World with 80 Beers"Club 

"ie~~_O_i_n__t_____________r_rida~y.oc-tobe-r3,-'986~,-pa~ge6 
Students show apathy 

toward police actions 
As I walked to the science building last Wednesday night, even the steady drizzle couldn't dampen my spirits. I was on my way to the second meeting on students' rights at off-campus parties. The county prosecutor was scheduled to be present with answers to questions on legal rights. I had attended the first meeting the week before and, while it was informative, I was a little disappointed by the size of the crowd. But this meeting will be dif­ferent, I told myself. People are really get­ting involved and interested. As I went in the door and rushed down the hall to the lecture room, I feared that I wouldn't get a seat. I entered the room and my fear was discharged. I could find a seat. In fact, I could find a lot ofseats. There were only I 7 people in the audience. 
Christy Wolfe 
guest column 
We've all heard it-the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community is apathetic. We care more about football than foreign policy. We grumble more about parietals than apartheid. And we always say the same thing -football and parietals are part of "our" world; foreign policy and apartheid aren't. Yet, over the past few weeks, we have been enraged by the treatment of NOOMC students at off-campus parties. From party raids to citations to the firing of two resident assistants, The Observer has kept us informed. We feel violated, harassed and we want action. 
Student Senator John Gardiner knew that and organized a legal forum with the co-directors of Legal Aid at the Notre Dame Law School and with the judicial coordinator of Notre Dame. The meeting was scheduled for Wednesday, Sept. I 7, and was mentioned on the front page of The Observer on Monday, Sept. 15. "All students who had gotten in trouble in one way or another" were encouraged to at­tend, as well as any student concerned with his or her rights "when confronted by law officers." 
Now, I assumed that this meeting would draw a large crowd. At least the people who had been issued citations or arrested would be there. When I reached the library auditorium, I was disappointed by the size of the crowd: less than ISO people. I was glad I went because I found out things' that I didn't know: for instance, a citation is similar to an arrest on your record and will stay on it permanently. The crowd was interested and the ques­tions were good questions but the answers just weren't that easy. 
On Wednesday, Sept. 24, again on the front page of the newspaper, was men­tion of the second meeting on students' rights off-campus. This time, the county prosecutor was coming to speak and an­swer questions. The next day's Observer told all inquiring minds what had transpired -the prosecutor's "real world view". How does it make you feel to know that those dogs that are trained to attack are at those parties as "a show of force"? Or that your fate relies totally on "the police officer's discretion"? The message was clear: it boils down to you versus a South Bend police officer. If he or she says you appeared to have been drinking or out of line, there is little you can say or do in your defense. But the article in the paper failed to mention what I con­sider the most critical thing apparent by this meeting. There were only I 7 people in the audience. 
The excuses are gone. We are all af­fected by treatment of ourselves or our fellow students, be it off-campus or on. Both meetings were mentioned on the front page of The Observer. Would they have been better seen on the sports page? Why are the incidents of citations and party raids making the front page of the paper? Obviously, very few people care -very few. Why are people like Stu­dent Senator John Gardiner and others in student government working to get answers for us? Relax, guys, you might as well do your homework, or work on "important" issues. Besides, we gave the county prosecutor a message to take back to the courthouse with him. By having I 7 people at that meeting. we let him know that we can and will continue to put up with the abuse of our rights when it comes to off-campus parties. If even I 0 percent of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's student body had shown up, he might have "felt the heat". Instead, we left him cold. 
As you read this, you may be thinking ahead to your plans for the weekend. If you plan to be off-campus, bring your checkbook and make sure your insurance covers dog bites. Because we have run out of excuses. 
Christy Wolfe is a Sophomore English and Sociology mcijor ar Saint Mary's College. 




Off-campus partying can be expensive night 
Editor's note: This is the first column of a regular series on the trials and tribula­tions of off-campus life. 
Who are those people sleeping in our Lafortune Student Center? Where do those guys come from who play that hacky-sack game in front of O'Shaughnessy all the time? And why do they always eat so much when they get into the dining halls? Look no further, students of Notre Dame, for I bring you the answer. These are members of the Notre Dame off-campus community. 
Tracy Thoman 
off-campus 
The most recent Registrar figures indi­cate that we, the undergraduate off­campus students, number just under 1400; the senior class alone has 40 per­cent of its population (or 750 students) living beyond the confines of the Golden Dome. Many reasons have been cited as to why the relatively sudden increase in off-campus migration has occurred. I can speak for most in saying it certainly isn't the lack of theft that lured us here. Yes, theft can be avoided. Although much has already been written in this paper on the topic, none has addressed the subject of Darners stealing from other Darners. "What?" you say, surprised. Yes -it hap­pens all the time and takes many forms. I'll explain in a brief scenario. 
An off-campus student decides to have 
a party. The night of the party, his friends come and everyone starts having a good time; his "donations" jar even has a few bills in it. As the party progresses, so does the number of bodies in the house/apartment. The party host is too busy talking to friends and watching out for the police to notice much else. After the party gets busted and the host receives a $50 fine for noise ordinance violation, only a few close friends and roommates remain. Someone wants to hear that Peter Gabriel tape that Pete just bought. "Where is it? I know I left it right here a couple hours ago," he asserts. Then, as more in the room become in­volved, other items of interest turn up missing. The beer tap, the donation money, more tapes, even money from 
the bedrooms. This list is by no means 
complete. 
We all agree that parties are a good time. But sometimes intoxicated Darners can become obnoxious. What needs to be stressed is that the renter of the abode has every right to ask certain things of his visitors. These include where to park, which rooms not to infiltrate in the house, to keep the noise to a dull roar, to let the host handle his own music and not to spill beer everywhere. Of course, off­campus etiquette varies from house to house. I just ask that you keep these in mind the next time you venture into the off-campus world. 
Tracy Thoman is Off-Campus Commis­sioner 
Campus quote 
"A proud man counts his newspaper clippings, a humble man counts his blessings." -·· 
James F. Ward Professor ofAccountancy September 15, 1986 


r 
r 
r 
r 
f r 
I r 
r 
~ 
r 
f
, I, 
General Board 
Ihe Observer 

Editor-in-Chief . .................. Joe Murphy Business Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor . ............... Kevin Becker Controller . ................. Alex VonderHaar Viewpoint Editor ........ ........ Scott Bearby Production Manager . ............ Chris Bowler 
The Obser-ver is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer­Sports Editor . ............... Dennis Corrigan Photography Manager .. , ....... James Carroll sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the Accent Editor . .................. Mary Jacoby Advertising Manager . ........ Anne M. Culligan policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately Saint Mary's Editor ........ .... Margie Kersten Systems Manager ............. Shawn Sexton and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represen.t the opinion of the majority of News Editor ..................... Tripp Baltz Graphic Arts Manger .......... Mark Weimholt the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Editor . . , .............. Mark Pankowski OCN Manager . ............. Francis X. Malone their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November3,1966 




Hottest way to strike up some mid-week 
fun 

ROBIN SQUYRES 
features writer 

Clubs, bars, parties-that's all out these days. With poliCe crackdowns, the tradi­tional forms of entertainment are getting 
risky for Notre Dame and  Saint Mary's  
students.  But  there  is  an  alternative  - 
bowling.  

Don't laugh. Bowling is becoming a for­midable presence in the social scene. 
Many dorms and university organiza­tions have regular bowling events, and some even have official bowling clubs. A "-club" includes all the good things: a presiding bowling comm1ss1oner, trophies, prizes and the ever important social advantages. 
"Chicks dig Morrissey guys who bowl," claims B(ad Edmonds, a sophomore par­tial to the sport.. 
Edmonds bowls regularly with the Mor­rissey club, which is one of the oldest on campus. 
"It's a tradition in Morrissey," says Ted Erbrecht, the 1orm's esteemed bowling commissioner. "It started with Brother Ed. He always went. He was a very big supporter." 
Brother Edward Luther, Morrissey's former rector, apparently enjoys a game or two. He was moved to Fisher Hall only this year, and there are rumors of a new bowling club already in progress. 
The Morrissey men head to the Beacon Bowl every Wednesday night. "Morrissey bowling is the place to be," according to Jared Desrosiers. "The weekend starts on Wednesday for us, and this kind of gets things rolling." No pun intended? 
"People are blowing off tests to go bowling," said Patrick Brisbane. He defines bowling as "more fun than the average human being should have at Notre Dame." 
It certainly sounds serious. 
In fact, bowling's increasing momen­tum has rolled it right off campus. Ralph Mastrangelo and his housemates make it to the bowling alley up to two times a week. "We go during the week, when there's nothing else to do. It's pretty in­expensive," says Mastrangelo. They usually head to Shu Ia's 31 Bowl, just into Michigan. 
These -guys are really hard-core; they compete for blood. "We gamble amongst ourselves; we bet things like dish nights 

see Bowling, page 2 
Xavier Wynn 
is having a 

ball, but he Is not 
playing catch, he's 
bowling -maybe for dollars. 


Scene-page 2 Weekend Edition-October 3-4, 1986 

 
What if .•• you could carry your own Professional Business Consultant in your briefcase-NOW you can with the HP-18C calculator. Elek-Tek Price $135 Order No. 420109 Mfr. Sugg. Ret. $175 Uses Industry Standard Algebraic Operating System (Not RPN). Features: • Menu labels • Separate alpha and numeric keyboards • Soft keys • Four-line LCD display • Formula solver • Infrared printer interface (printer available soon) Built-In functions: Interest rate Markup and margin Payment schedules Interest rate conversions Statistics Time and appointments Infernal rate .of return Application books available FJ/0'1 HEWLETT ~~PACKARD CALL TOLL FREE 800 621-1269 EXCEPT Illinois. Alaska, Hawaii Accessones d1scounted too MasTercard or V1sa by phone or mail Ma11 Cashier's Check, Money Ord Pers Check {2 weeks to ck) Sorry no COD's Add '411 (> 1st 1tem. '1°t.each add'l-shpg & hand! Shpts to IL address add 7% tax Pnces subJ. to change UnTversitytCollege PO's welcome WRITE (no calls) for tree catalog 30 day return pohcy for defect1ve merchandise only ALL ELEK-TEK MERCHANDISE IS BRAND NEW 1 sl QUALITY AND COMPLETE ..  
6557 North Lincoln Avenue, Chicago, IL 60645 EK·TEKinc. (312) 677-7680  


Quiet Riot and Poison 
to perform in Goshen 
The heavy metal rock groups Quiet Riot and.Poison will be performing this Monday night at the Goshen Theater in Goshen, Indiana. Quiet Riot has enjoyed great success in the past with their albums Metal Health and Condition Critical. 
Their latest album, QRl/1, is currently at number 31 on the Billboard album chart. Quiet Riot's hit singles include "Cum On Feel The Noize, ,, "Bang Your Head(Metal Health)" and "The Wild And The Young.,, Opening the concert for Quiet Riot 
will be Poison. Poison has just released its debut album, Look 
What The Cat Dragged In, andfeatures a flashy onstage image and lots ofloud hook-filled music. 

Bowling 
continued from page I 
(loser washes the dishes for 250 nights in a row), dinner (but 
A 

that's no problem if you don't have to clean up), or cases of beer (the true incentive for the~ entire competition). We're think­
r 
ing about joining a league here 
r 
in South Bend," said Mastran­gelo. The most popular spots seem to be the Beacon Bowl and 
~ 
Shula's 3 I Bowl. The managers , at both establishments are , pleased with student turnout. Ac­cording to Jim Singleton, gen­eral manager of Beacon Bowl, 
r 
Notre-Dame students are "well­
~ 
dressed and well-behaved." George Vack, manager ofF 5hula's 3 I Bowl, explains the stu­r dents' bowling enthusiasm. "They're taking out their frustra­tions from studying." In thatr case, could it be in the Univer­sity's best interest to reserve the
~ 
place for a solid month?
r 
Both establishments said they are more than happy to arrange a student discount rate for any large group of students. A mere call in advance can usually facilitate an arrangement. Prices arc a little more than $I a game and approximately 75 cents for shoes. 
So you wanna be hip, happen­ing, now'? Do the right thing: go bowling; catch the wave. 

WVFITopTen 
1.Walk Like an Egyptian The Bangles 
2.What About Love 'til tuesday 3.Superman REM 
4.Wild Wild Life Talking Heads 5.Heartache Gene Loves Jezebel 
6.There Is a Light That Nevers Goes Out The Smiths 7.(Forever) Live and Die Orchestral Manouvers in the Dark B.People Like Us Talking Heads 9.Whole New World It Bites lO.Fall On Me R.E.M. 
This chart complied from the playllsts of WVI"l-AM640 as of Oct. 1. 

·------------------. Scene-page 3 Weekend Edition-October 3-4, 1986 ­
'Armed and Dangerous' in need of redemption 
PAUL PILGER role in "Jagged Edge." features writer After graduation from security guard 
When the credits came up at the end school, Candy and Levy pair up and on of "Armed and Dangerous," I found their first assignment walk in on Carlino's myself looking for redemption instead of henchmen during a warehouse heist. The an exit sign; redemption for this truly lack­two decide to investigate the robbery on ing film, that is. their own and for the remainder of the This Columbia Pictures release is a movie they fight for truth? Justice? The prime example of seemingly wasted time American way? I'm still not sure and I and talent. Even the likes of John Candy don't think Harold Ramis ("Meatballs," and Eugene Levy, who together have "Caddyshack") and Peter Torokvei("Back turned out belly laugh performances in to School") knew either when they wrote movies like "Splash," cannot save this this disappointing script. The movie directionless film. shoots for "Beverly Hills Cop" status but lacks the realism to reach it. It also lacks the slapstick unrealistic format of moviesMovie review~.· like "Police Academy." It seems that
Armed & Dangerous .· ~•!,,,, 
someone tossed a coin to decide the for­. ~~~' 
mat of this film and it landed neither head nor tails. 

** .Jl!
(outoltourJ· · 
Director Mark L. Lester, who directed 

"Armed and Dangerous" is a cop­Stephen King's "Fire Starter", insults the comedy clone that tries to follow in the intelligence of a now very sophisticated tradition of "Beverly Hills Cop" and its audience by allowing many poor se­successor "Running Scared." John Candy quences to suffice and not to suffer the and Eugene Levy are portrayed as a fate of the editor's knife. During the shoot policeman and a lawyer, respectively, out in front of Carlino's estate for exam­who un·deservingly lose their jobs and ple, both Candy and Levy unload about end up as new recruits for a somewhat fifteen shots each from their .22 caliber unsavory security guard agency. Candy pistols with out reloading. The least · , and Levy give, at best, admirable perfor­Lester could have done was to give them mances in the wake of this movie's poor submachine guns. Another example, and script. probably the most outstanding direc­
Ken McMillan, who has played roles in tional flaw in "Armed and Dangerous,' is 
24 feature length films including "Dune" the drawn out chase scene at the climax and "The Pope of Greenwich Village," of the movie which is equal to, or out plays Clarence O'Neil, the head of this done by, a chase scene from Michael infamous security guard agency. Meg Mann's "Miami Vice." Ryan, known for her roles in "Rich and On top of a poor script and poor direc­
John Candy reverts to his old days as a motorcycle officer, complete 
Famous" and "Top Gun," plays O'Neil's tion, put on a one-listen sound track and 
with uniform, as he chases the badguys in "Armed and-Dangerous."
daughter Maggie. Both McMillan and Ryan this problem film is complete. Bill Meyers are wasted in this film. The script does and Maurice White provide this disap­not give McMillan the room he needs to pointing element. Meyers, who is greatly On a positive note, two worthwhile per­come when Candy and Levy are in situa­turn in a performance that compares to respected for his work with Earth, Wind formances are turned in by Tom "Tiny" tion comedyskit type scenes which they his character acting ability. Ryan's char­and Fire, Boz Scaggs and Gino Vanelli, Lester and Larry Hankin. Lester plays are best remembered for from their days acter, Maggie, is not smart enough to be as well as for his arrangements for Bruno, the mad-dog head security guard on "Second City Television." However, 
out of the ranks of "dumb blond", but Madonna's hit "Papa Don't Preach" and who Candy and Levy continuously these scenes are very few and far enough not gullable enough to be seduced. ,And, Neil Diamond's latest album, must have ridicule. Hankin, at the other end of the between to allow the audience time to although she is nice to look at, we don't left some of his genius home in Chicago spectrum, is right at home with his role forget the last one. see enough of her. • before going to Los Angeles to write as Kokolovitch, a new recruit who obvi­Overall "Armed and· Dangerous" takes 
Robert Loggia's portrayal of Michael "Armed and Dangerous" boring original ously had a front row seat at Woodstock a reasonable basic premise and turns it Carlino, the crooked head of the security score. White handled the production end and has been dropping acid ever since. into a contrived plot. It lacks the comedy guard union, is the best performance in o( the film's music, but even this seven­Both Lester and Hankin are well cast and punch needed to make it a success. the film.. Loggia's ability to play the tough time Grammy award winner can not help help refresh the contrived story of this guy..tnafia chief type is unsurpassed and to make the soundtrack worth a second film. "Armed and Dangerous" is now earned him an Oscar nomination for his listen. "Armed and Dangerous" best points showing at the University Park Cinema. 

The Scoop

Movies 
The Student Activities Board Town and Country on 2340 North Also at the Snite Museum is an Jazz artists Phyllis Hyman, Stanley presents "Beverly Hills Cop" Friday Hickory Road at 259-9090. "American Master Photographers" ex­Turrentine and Pieces of a Dream will and Saturday in the Engineering Scottsdale in the Scottsdale Mall at hibit located in the Print, Drawing and perform in a "Jazz Explosion" at 8:00 Auditorium. "Eddie Murphy plays Axel 291-4583. Photography Gallery and the "Piranesi p.m. on Saturday at the Holiday Star Foley, a brash, street-smart Detroit cop River Park on 2929 Mishawaka Ave­Prints from Indiana Collections," Theater in Merrillville, Ind. Tickets for pounding the gilded pavements of nue at 288-8488. featuring the works of Giovanni Bat­the show are $15.95 and available by Beverly Hills in search of his best 100 Center Cinema in the I00 Cen­tista Piranesi. continue this weekend. calling (219) 769-6600. 
friend's killer, much to the dismi:ly of ter at 259-04 14. the city's elite police force. "Beverly The Sweet Sorghum Festival will Hills Cop" is an e1.1tertaining blend of take place this weekend at Saint wild comedy, high-energy action and Patrick's Park at 50651 Laurel Road. nail-biting suspense. Admission to the The festival will feature numerous craft
Art ~M~sic 

7, 9: 15 and I I :30 p.m. showings is and food booths. $1.50. 
~I IR 
"Adam's Rib," a 1949 comedy with volleyball
Katherine Hepburn and Spencer Tracy The exhibit "Tamarind: 25 Years," Tenor Garry Grice and pianist John Notre Dame women's as husband and wife lawyers on oppo­continues this weekend at the Snite C. Owings will perform a faculty recital takes to the court of the ACC Pit this weekend in North Star Conference
site sides of a case will be presented Museum. The exhibit marks the 25th entitled "An Evening of Vocal Works at 8 p.m. on Sunday in the Northside anniversary of the Tamarind Lithog­by Beethoven," at 8: 15 p.m. on Friday competition. The Irish will meet Mar­quette on Friday and DePaul on Satur­
Little on the Indiana University at South raphy Workshop. in Northside Recital Hall at Indiana Uni­
day. Times for both games is 7:30p.m.
Bend campus at I 700 Mishawaka Ave. Works by the following artists will be versity at South Bend. Admission to Admission is $1. 75. included in the show: Josef Albers, the concert is free. Richard Diebenkorn, Sam Francis, 
The department of communication Philip Guston, David Hackney, John Al­and theater presents "lnsigniflcance" toon, Louise Nevelson, Rufino Friday at t:-.e Annenberg Auditorium. Tamayo, Judy Chicago, Nathan The movie is a fantasy about Oliviera, Fritz Scholder, Roy Deforest 
Theater 

encounters during one long night in and • Joseph Raffael and others 1953 Involving Joe DiMaggio, Marilyn prominent in the print field. 

The celebrants forMassat SacredMonroe, Albert Einstien and Senator Museum hours are 10-4 p.m. Friday heart Church this weekend will be:Joe McCarthy. Gene Siskel of the and Saturday. Admission is free. The Office of Student Activiites will Father Michael Heppen at 9 a.m. onChicago Tribune calls it "Enchant­
"The Competetive Alumnae Art present the Niel Simon comedy hit Sunday.
ing... thot1ght provoking... "Insig­nificance" is "Back to the Future" for Show" will be shown this weekend in "Plaza Suite" at 8 p.m. this Friday and Father Peter Rocca at I 0:30 a.m. and 
adults." Tickets to the 7:.30 and 9:.30 the Art Galleries on the Saint Mary's Saturday in Washington Hall. Admis­12:15 p.m. 
p.m. 
shows are $1.50. campus. Hours are 9:30a.m. to 12:00 sion to the shows is free with donations The schedule for confessions in Sa­

p.m. 
and I :00 to 3:00 p.m. on Friday accepted for African famine relief. cred Heart Church is: and from I :00-3:00 p.m. on Sunday. The Acting Ensemble Stage Compa­Monday through Saturday at I I : 15 A guide to local movie theaters in For more information call 284-4655. ny's run of the William Saroyan fantasy a.m. the South Bend area. The exhibit "Alterations: Art About "My .Heart's In the Highlands," con­Monday through Friday at 5 p.m. University Park Mall on Grape and Art" will close at 5 p.m. Sunday at The tinues this weekend at the Colfax Cul­Monday through Thursday at 7 p.m. 


Cleveland Roads at 277-0441. Art Center at I 20 South St. Joseph tural Center, 914 Lincolnway West. Saturday only 4-5 p.m. in the crypt. Fourm Cinema on US 31 at 277-Street. The Art Center hours are 12:00 Vespers will be held Sundays at 7: 15 
Curtain time is 8:30 p.m. For more 1522. p.m. to 5:00 p.m. 
information call 234-PLAY. p.m. in the Lady Chapel. 



.. I 


-------~ 

-
Scene-page 4 Weekend Edition-October 3-4, 1986 
The Grotto -A way to celebrate the reflection of our God 

Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
campus that October 7 is the god? an angel? a saint so pow­date I blow out the candles on erful He could defeat death? the Dainty-Maid cake. I'm going The Church did not begin with 
to forego the candles this time the writing of the New Testa­around; to tell the truth, I'm still ~ ment. It took a generation for tired from last year's celebration. the stories to be written down. 
Even though you can't come In the beginning, you had the to my party, Octob~r 7 is a date faith communities .which knew worth remembering, since it is the stories, the teaching, and the 
_the feast of the Holy Rosary. Our primitive liturgies. They Blessed Lady, in whose honor guaranteed the genuineness of candles are kept lighted at the the written accounts, separating Grotto, is honored there as Our them from the apocryphal ver­Lady of the Rosary. Perhaps it sions. would be useful if I reminded you why we honor her. Intense speculation went on 
about the identity of Jesus. Was Catholics are suspected of He God or man? Was He a man 
paying more attention to Mary with the appearance of God, or than they pay to God. Catholics, God with a man's appearance? let it be said to their credit, are It was a long time before the smart enough to tell the differ­Church solemnly defined the or­ence between the Creator and his thodox doctrine: Christ is true creature. They are able to figure God and true man; the Second out that the bright-blazing sun, Person of the Trinity; He has a giving light and life to the world, human nature and a divine na­is not diminished because the _ture. beauty of the moon and stars is praised as they reflect the bril­The Church Fathers must have liance of the sun. had the New Testament spread 
out in front of them as they 
If you were a pagan, reading -argued. The Word had become the New Testament for the very flesh: how astounding! How in­first time, what would you think comparable! How sublime was of Jesus Christ? Remember the the act of love in which the Holy nativity stories, the miracles, the One ofGod took on the flesh that parables, the Sermon on the our first parents had stained with Mount the Passion and sin! The doctrine that His mother Crucifixion, the first Easter, the was free of original stain came Prologue and discourses of John's Gospel, the doxologies later. Eventually they would see and hymns in His honor, and the that her sinlessness too was part apocalyptic imagery centered on of His mystery. Him in the final book. Looking at the Son, they had 
to look at the mother. She gave 
Would you believe His mes­Him His human identity. She sage, His claims, His promises? gave Him His Old Testament con­Would your heart burn within nection with the Law, the Cove­you, impelling you to make an nant and the Promises. The Holy act of faith in Him as though your Spirit ovrshadowed her, and she salvation depended on the truth gave God a Son with Whom He He brought from God? Or would was well pleased. The text is so you weep from not Knowing whe-discreet; there is no violence 
Read Kris Murphy's Altered Mondays in The Observer. 

Woodsy Owl says No Noise Pollution Here! 
Give a hoot. Don't pollute. 

here, no scandal of Leda strug­gling with the swan. The inspired poetry offers few 
images:  God  being  gracious  
awaits  His  creature's  consent:  
Fiat  mihi  secundum  verbum  

tuum. Light streams through a window; dew forms in the heart of the mystical rose: Deum de Deo; Lumen de luminer. The· bride of the Spirit, the mother of holiness, the God-bearer is full of grace. She has found favo"r with God; she's our second Eve, our rose of Sharon, "our tainted nature's solitary boast;" and all generations will declare her blessed. 
Gerard Manley Hopkins com­pared her to the air we breath, which shields us from the fierce­ness of the Sun. God, through­Mary, puts on the veil of flesh, since none could look on the naked glory of His face, and live. Even great Moses could only look at His hinder-parts through the cleft of a rock. We have seen His face as the only-begotten Son of the Father. 
We honor Mary because she is part and parcel of the mystery of the Incarnation. If you leave her out the mystery is diminished. She was the earthly partner of the marriage between the Spirit and the Flesh. Revelation tells us that she stood at the foot of the Cross. With His dying breath, €hrist gave her into the keeping of the apostle John, to be the Mother of the Church. As a dra­matic presence in the script God wrote for Himself, she is a theatrical masterpiece. 
Sometines at one or two a.m., when I'm so tired I can't see the tip of my nose, I go down to the grotto. The peace and friendli­ness there are as refreshing as sleep. Faith is easy at the grotto. Religion has its mysteries, but having faith beats being blind. 
Our Lady is called stella maris, the star of the sea, and storm­tossed sailors pray for the light ofOur Lady's star. Seeing it, they say, they know the shape of the sky, the direction of home, nd the closeness of God. God created the best stars, they say, to be useful as well as beautiful. 
The grotto is our stella maris. In celebration ofOctober 7, I rec­ommend it to you. 
ND/SMC theater 
season begins 
Special to The Observer 
Three plays and one dance concert will comprise the 1986-87 season for Notre Dame--Saint Mary's Theatre ac­cording to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Communication and Theatre Department Chairmen Mark Pilkinton and Clayton Henderson. 
Selections range from clas­sic tragedy to contemporary comedy. Two of the shows will be performed at O'Laughlin Auditorium on the campus of Saint Mary's College and two plays will be presented at Washington Hall at Notre Dame. 
The season begins with the Pulitzer Prize-winning "Crimes of the Heart" by Beth Henley. This off-beat comedy recounts a reunion of three 
sisters in Hazlehurst  Missis­ 
sippi.  The  occasion  of  the  
reunion  is  that  one  of  the  

sisters, Babe, has shot her husband. The other two have returned home to lend her support. 
Lenny, the oldest is brood­ing about turning thirty and her painful lack of romantic prospects while Meg, a failed nightclub singer, is trying to find the best lawyer in town to represent Babe. Hen ley's sense of humor has been characterized as Southern Gothic and will be performed at O'Laughlin Auditorium in October. Saint Mary's Theatre professor Julie Jen.sen will direct "Crimes of the Heart." 
Jensen has recently returned from Washington, 
D.C. where she won a playwrit­ing competition sponsored by the Arena Stage. Her play was selected above I, 200 others and was produced at the Arena Stage. Jensen also received a cash award of $5000. 
Mark Pilkinton will direct the second offering in Washing­ton Hall in December. "Good" by C. P. Taylor is an intelligent and light treatment ofa rather sensitive subject. Taylor, a Jew, wrote a play probing how a good person could become involved in the Nazi move­
•'  THE XEROX PC  s:l•  
Standard Features  
Include:  
·PC Compatible  
·256KRAM  
·8MHz Processing Chip  
·2 Floppy Drives (DS/DD)  
·Parallel and Serial Ports  
·7 Expansion Slots  

Keyboard &Monocrome Display ·MS DOS3.1 with SCREENMATE ·EXCEL Self-Paced Training ·Graphics Chip 
List Price $2604 ND Price $992 
...thru 10-31-86 Price applies to students, staff and faculty Call Today for a Demonstration 
Neil Murphy, Acct. Executive Xerox Corporation 1657 North Commerce Dnve. Suite 11-A South Bend. Indiana 46628-1596 • 232-6928 • 
ment in Germany. 
Taylor's challenge was to create a character with whom the average audience mem­ber could identify rather than portraying a Nazi as the stereotypic psychopath. His main character Halder, is hardly the stereotypic Nazi ter­rorist. 
A liberal professor, Halder is a devoted family man whose best friend is a Jewish psychiatrist. Through a suc­cession of events Taylor shows the transformation of Halder into a top official in the Nazi party, who is instumental in developing the "final solu­tion." "Good" played in Lon­don in 1982 and on Broadway in 1984. 
In March an eclectic evening ofmusic and dance is planned for O'Laughlin Auditorium called "To Dance!" lndi Dieck­graefe, Pro fessor of Dance at Saint Mary's College, will cho­reograph a number oforiginal works for her dancers and also perform a solo work. Dieckgraefe will also invite a professional dancer and 
choreographer to be guest artist. The guest artist will choreograph a piece for the student dancers and will also perform. 
The final play of the season will be Shakespeare's classic tragedy "Macbeth," directed by Reg Bain, professor of Theatre at Notre Dame. Mac­beth's lust for power has made his name synonymous with evil. One of Shake­speare's most popular plays, "Macbeth" is a study of the corroding effects produced when Macbeth chooses Evil as his master. 
There are two types of sub­
. scriptions this season from which to choose. Subscribers will see all four shows for $18 or $ 15 depending upon seat location. Student and Senior Citizen discounts are avail­able. 
For information on becom­ing a subscriber or to place Mastercard and Visa orders call the Washington Hall Ticket Office (219) 2.39-5957, weekdays 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
I'm not going to write a birthday column this year, be­cause I'm embarrassed to be an­other year older. Every year since 1970; when I started writing for The Observer, I have notified the ther He was real, or only such a figure as half-mad prophets dream of during their fasts in the desert? Assuming you were given the grace to believe, who would you say that He was: a 


Wygant Floral CO.Inc. 
··gQowe~g fyo~ oQQ oc~c:ogiott~ 
Come in and Browse 
327lincolrtway 232-3354 

rhe (~arne The ~dlt'dule 
' 

Notre Dame vs. Alabama Notre Dame (1-2) 
L ·MICHIGAN, 24-23

Time Saturday, October 4, I986 2:30p.m. EST 
L • Michigan St., 20-15 W • PURDUE, 41-9 Series Notre Dame 4, Alabama 0 
Oct. 4 • at Alabama 

Oct. 11 • PITTSBURGH Last November 15, 1980 
Oct. 18 • AIR FORCE
Notre Dame 7, Alabama 0 .

Meeting Nov. 1 • at Navy Nov. 8 • SMU Nov. 15 · PENN STATE
Ran kings 
Notre Dame unranked Alabama 2nd (AP) Nov. 22 • at LSU 
Nov. 7° -at USC 

Tickets Game is sold out 
··-------· ----------------------· 

The Stadium Legion Field (75,808) 
Alabama (4-0) 
W • Ohio St., 16-10 W ·VANDERBILT, 42-10 W -SO. MISSISSIPPI, 31-17 W-Florida, 21-7 Oct. 4 • NOTRE DAME 
Oct. 11 • MEMPHIS ST. 

Oct. 18 -at Tennessee 
T\ arHI Radio 

Oct. 25 ·PENN STATE 
ABC Sport~ natior.al telecast 
Nov. 1 -at Mississippi St. 
Keith Jackson, Tim Brant and Al Trautwig Nov. 8 • LSU WSJV-TV(Ch. 28) Notre Dame Mutual Radio Network 
Nov. 15 ·TEMPLE 
Tony Roberts and Tom Pagna NOV. 29 • AUBURN WNDU-AM 1500 
-~---·­

•
flS 


Alabama weekend Edition, october 3-4, 1986
The Observer 




The nt-.•""-"''"«: 

Senior manager Joe Puetz and his staff are Lou Holtz' right hand men when it comes to game and practice preparation 
Managers play big role in game preparations 
By TERRY LYNCH Sports Writer 
"We're the roadies of the football team," said junior Brian Moffitt as he tried to sum up the experience of being a student manager. For the amount oftime, dedication and attention to detail that the student managers put into the team, nothing could be closer to the truth. 
The student managers organization at Notre Dame has a long and tradition-filled history that dates back to the days when Knute Rockne coached the Fighting Irish. The managers are a completely student­run organization that extends their membership to all freshmen men, and managers who stay with the program until their senior 
j 

year are automatically entitled to at least a 65 percent scholarship. 
"When you get to your senior year, all of a sudden you find out 
where you stand, and that's where the fun really, really begins," said Head Football Manager Joe Puetz, who is one of three seniors who devote their managing efforts exclusively to football. Puetz has a' full scholarship, while co-seniors Bryan Fenton and Don EI-Etr have 75 percent scholarships. 
Until senior year, however, the "fun" of managing looks a lot like pure drudgery. The managers cover all practices, making sure the players are properly eqipped for each day, regulating the gates to the practice field, making sure practice runs smoothly and arranging training table schedules. And that has nothing to do with the dreaded "Game Prep." 
see PREP, pages 2-3 
Irish Extra, pages 2-3 
Opponent\ Corner 
Mike steps out from Don's shadow 


juniors and seniors against the freshmen and sop­homores, is then filmed by the football staff as material for a meeting in the future that has as much to do with camaraderie as it does uncon­trolable laughter. 
"I love the managers' football game," said Puetz. "It's like fulfilling a childhood dream. 
"The players really get a kick out of it. Steve Beuerlein was one of the referees in last year's game, and a couple of players have asked me when the game this year is. They look at it as a kind of pee-wee league. 
"It's an intense game," con­tinued Puetz. "But you can really tell who's played before and who hasn't." 
The managers have a good working relationship with the players and coaches, while the latter has come to depend a great deal on the hard work of the managing group. There is no looking-down upon the managers by the players, as is usually the custom in high schools. 
"There's a mutual respect be­tween the players and the managers," said Keough. "We realize that we're there to prepare them for the game, and they realize that our job is necessary." 
By KEITH DUNNAVANT 
Crimson and White 
Starting guard Bill Condon remembered how his palms sweated as the seconds ticked away. But leading Alabama back from the brink of dis­aster was no sweat for quar­terback Mike Shula. 
No sweat to lead the Crimson Tide on a 71-yead scoring march in 35 seconds. No sweat to perform a miracle be­tween the hedges of Georgia's Stanford stadium, a magic moment that brought Ala­bama a shocking 20-16 vic­tory and ignited a surprising 9-2-I season. No sweat to take the tools ofan average college quarterback fine tune them to near perfection, add a dose of football smarts and come out a big winner. 
On that warm September night in 1985, Mike Shula ­not Don Shu Ia's son, but just plain Mike Shula -came of age. "It was a moment I'll never for­get" says Shula. "That gave me a lot of confidence, I think it gave the team confidence too, you hope to have the chance to challenge yourself like that. It's exciting to find out what you can do in that kind of situation." 
The excitement has continued for Shula, who has lead Ala­bama to a 4-0 start and a No. 2 national ranking in this week's national wire service polls. The Crimson Tide plays host to Notre Dame tomorrow at Birmingham's Legion Field. 
Before the season began, some were clamoring about a Heisman Trophy for Shula, which is unlikely. Others spoke routinely of all-America honors, which is a distinct possibility. But Shula just wants to talk about winning. 
"With the schedule we have, we have the chance to do some great things this year," Shula says. "I don't consider it a burden I consider it a chal­lenge to have the opportunity to play Ohio State, Penn State, Notre Dame and all the tough SEC schools. If you want to be the best. you have to play the best, and we have that challenge." 
Shula loves a challenge. He remember those first few months on the Alabama campus, when he was not re­garded as just another rookie quareterback, but as a man in a fishbowl, always being asked how it felt to be Don Shula's son, the kid who grew up on the Dolphins sideline. Did he learn his work habits from Griese? Did Marino give him any pointers? How active an interest did dad take in his football career? 
It probably got more than a little old for the youngest of Don Shula's children. 
"It's great to be Don Shula's son," he would say, "but I want to make a name for myself." 
That in itself would be some challenge. All the while, he was considered the number­three horse in a three-horse race. After fleetfooted Walter Lewis finished his eligibility in 1983, the chase would match two tough all-America quar­terbacks with impressive credentials and one all-state signal barker with a famous name. Flashy Georgian Vince Sutton, with a rifle for an arm, was considered the favorite. Shula was a decided longshot. 
On the front stretch, the dis­astrous 5-6 season of 1984, neither one looked impres­sive. Both had chances at the reins. Both won, both lost. 
"''d realized I wasn't perform­ing," Shula says in hindsight. "I had no gripes sharing time with Vince." 
But the complexion of the race changed dramatically in the spring of 1985. Shula the hard worker with limited tools, pulled ahead of Sutton, the flashy kid with all the right moves. The long-shot won the race. 
So on that night in question, Shula stepped on to the giant stage just before the curtain was to fall, and he put on a performance that made jaws droop in awe. He showed a talent few knew he had, dis­playing a coolhanded nature in the clutch, and a tou~;:h that was good enough to get the job done. For that, he was Ray Perkin's quarterback. For that, he was the undisputed leader on a team that cried out for a pied piper. 
"I remember when I first got here," says battery mate AI Bell. "People said all Shula could throw was a wobble ball. They must not have been talking about the same Mike Shula that's been throwing for me." 
Perhaps it wasn't the same Shula. Sure, it was the same kid with the average tools. But if it was a wobble ball he was tossing, he was learning to toss it with increasing ac­curacy. 
The guy with the weak arm lead the nation in passing effi­ciency for much of the 1985 season, finishing fifth. He threw for 16 touchdowns and set a new school record for single season completion percentage (60.3). He di­rected a late rally againstarch­rival Auburn, allowing Van Tif­fin to kick the wining points. 
While all the experts were talking about Shula's weak­nesses, he was charting his own limits and learning to live within his own God-given means. 
"I realize my limitations," he says. "I don't have the tools of a Vince Sutton, no way. But all that means is that I have to make up for it with a lot of hard work." 
Special t 

team. 
On Octo Struppel 
story of had witr earlier. 

team of powerfu schoole1 
blockin~ 
Prep-
continuedfrom page 1 
Game Prep takes place the Thursday or Friday night before each game, and noth­ing is overlooked by the managing crew. Every shoe, jersey, pad and cleat is checked if it is to be used in the upcoming game. But per­haps the most painstaking and time-honored tradition of the student managers is painting the helmets the tradi­tional gold of Notre Dame. Game Prep can go until as late as 2 a.m., which wouldn't be bad if the managers didn't have to be back at the stadium at 7 a.m. 
"You have to have a lot of pa­tience and be a big fan of Notre Dame," said junior manager George Keough. "If you put up with the menial tasks, you'll do as a manager. It's not that what we do is uni­mportant, they're just not noticed." 
But tradition runs a little deeper than merely painting helmets and being indisposed to the wishes of Irish players and coaches both home and away. The managers as­semble once a year in Novem­ber on a Sunday morning to play their annual intra­manager football game. 
The game, which pits the 
Cornelius Bennet 


Greer 
continued from 
some academ before I ever wer ball office." 
While Notre Da ing him as a ru was getting p 
back home to 
which wanted h 
sive back. But 
wanted to go a 
that it would be 
ing experience agreed. 
"She wanted to school," h wanted me to c Notre Dame. S~ the religious at the place." 
Green came to expecting to be tailback to Aller the team neec flanker last yea moved to that p 
Though he saw last season's 01, Michigan, he P'1 of the last ten g< tributed with ni for I 16 yards, ar the five times frc spot. His 4< against Navy wa 
longest run fro last season. 
The biggest ga sonally last ye contest. Again former high­nents, he cau a nine-yard o 

Weekend Edition, October 3-4, 1986 
If it's Crimson Tide, t"otre Dame vs. AP Top Five 
1 
I 
Rank Notre Dame Opponent
by have an elephant? 
1986 Michigan 3 23 -24 
that I have ever seen. When those big 1985 Miami* 4 7 -58 
orutes hit you I mean you go down and stay down, often for an additional two

of how Alabama became asso­*
Penn State 1 6 -36
minutes.

the "elephant" goes back to season when Coach Wallace assembled 
a great football 1982 Penn State 5 14 -24
"Coach Wade started his second team that was plenty big and went right to their knitting scoring a touchdown in the first 

Pittsburgh* 1 w 31 -16 
quarter against one of the best fighting small lines that I have seen. For Ole Miss

8, 1930, sports writer Everett 
was truly battling the big boys for every 1981 usc 5 7 -14
the Atlanta Journal wrote a inch of ground.
bama-Mississippi game he in Tuscaloosa four days 
1980 Georgia 1 1 0 -17 (Sugar Bowl) 
wrote, "That Alabama "At the end of the quarter, the earth 
started to tremble, there was a distant Alabama* 5 w 7 -0 
rumble that continued to grow. Some ex­cited fan in the stands bellowed, 'Hold 

1979 usc 4 23 -'42 
your horses, the elephants are coming', and out stamped this Alabama varsity. 

1978 USC* 3 25 -27 
"It was the first time that I had seen it 

Michigan 5 14 -28
and the size of the entire eleven nearly knocked me cold, men that I had seen 

play last year looking like they had nearly 1977 Texas 1 W 38 -1 0 (Cotton Bowl) 
doubled in size." 

usc 5 w 49 -19 
Strupper and other writers continued to 

1976 USC* 3 13 -17
refer to the Alabama linemen as "Red Elephants", the color referring to the crimson jerseys. 

1975 usc 3 17 -24 1974 Alabama 2 W 13 -11 (Orange Bowl) 
The 1930 team posted an overall I 0-0 record. It shut out eight opponents and 

allowed only 13 points all season while 1973 Alabama 1 W 24 -23 (Sugar Bowl) 
1930 is a typical Wade machine, scoring 217. The "Red Elephants" rolled , big. tough, aggressive, well­over Washington State 24-0 in the Rose *Away Source: Notre Dame Sports Information Department Observer Graphic/Mark Weimholt
in fundamentals and the best Bowl and were declared National Cham­team for this early in the season pions. 
ligence and toughness -have much potential. For right now, Johnson and the return ofJef­he was more than happy to He as also caught Head Coach 
come out with a victory, espe­helped to give Green the start­he is trying to get more con­ferson and D'Juan Francisco, 
Lou Holtz's eye, as much for ing nod once again for tomor­sistency out of his 180-pound the number of players whocially since his mom had his ability as the qualities row's Notre Dame-Alabama tailback, especially in his pass can do thejob has increased.

made the trip up for the game. 
which Green's mother gave 

contest. blocking. Green, however, still remains him. 
out front. "Right after the game we went "He works very hard, and he "He needs to do a better job "Naturally we try to put the
"He is quick. and he has su­out to dinner," he says. "And tries to improve every day," pass blocking." says Stock. best I I guys on the field,"
perb strength -his strengthshe kind of called me off to "But he is tough. Wejust need
just amazes me," says Holtz. says Backfield Coach Mike says Holtz. "And Mark Green the side and said, 'Do you like "He is durable, intelligent. Stock. "It shows what kid of more consistency." is a guy who will compete for it?' And I looked at her and talented and tough." disciplined kid he is." you." 
said, 'Yeah, I really like it.' And With the emergence of fresh­It is enough to make a mothershe goes, 'Good, because I 
Two of those qualities -intel-Stock notes that Green has man running back Anthony proud.
like it too.' And that made all the difference in the world." 
"The first thing that popped in my head was, 'I've got to go home. I can't go through with this,· " he says. "But I knew she wanted me to be here in the First place. And I'm e to go away sure ifshe was still here, she'd ~ says "She want me to finish out. to get :orne here to a degree. and so I'm going to 
e really liked do that." mosphere of 
Green was now more comfort­able with college life. The Notre Dame, 
homework seemed easier,
the backup 
and he looked forward to the 
Pinkett. But 
next football season. But 
ed help at 
then, unexpectedly, his mot­, so he was 
her died in February.
sition. 
no action in He also continued to play foot­ener against ball, this time at the more yed in each familiar position of tailback. mes. Hecon­With Pinkett gone and injuries e receptions to Alonzo Jefferson and the 
d also rushed 
Francisco brothers -Hiawatha m the flanker and D'Juan -Green emerged -yard burst as the starting tailback. 
rs the second-
scrimmage 
Through the first three games Green has emerged as both the leading rusher and ~for him per­receiver. In the rushing de­was the USC partment he has 42 carries for 1everal of his 160 yards, and he has utilized 1ool oppo­his experience last year at 
one pass on flanker to catch 13 passes for pattern. And 139 yards. 
l'ime <'apsule 

Thomas finds redemption 
Field goal gives Irish ,73 National Championship 
By MARTY STRASEN Tom Clements fired a pass to tight end Robin Weber at the Assistant Sports Editor 38 to put the final nail in the 'Barna coffin. 
What really does happen when an indestructable force meets Irish fullback Wayne Bullock capped a 64-yard scoring drive 

an immovable object? in the opening quarter to put his troops on the board first with a 6-0 lead, but the powerful running backs of the Tide began to roll in the second quarter. Randy Billingsley scored on a six-yard run with 7:30 left in the half to give Alabama
That was the question some 85,000 fans in New Orleans and its first lead, which could have been even more trouble fortelevision viewers all over the nation wanted to see answered 

the Irish were it not for the ensuing kickoff.
in the 1973 Sugar Bowl. when two undefeated and highly­ranked college football teams battled it out for the national championship. 

That's when Notre Dame's AI Hunter broke free for a dazzling 93-yard touchdown return and Clements added a two-point
The answer was a 24-23 upset victory for Notre Dame over conversion pass to Pete Demmerle to give the Irish a 14-7
No. I Alabama, in one of the greatest college gridiron games 

lead. ' 
ever played. 
.... 

After an even third quarter which left Notre Dame with a 21-1 7 Bob Thomas, who had missed a pair of field-goal attempts lead, a second-string quarterback named Richard Todd and earlier in the game, connected on a 19-yard chip shot with a halfback named Mike Stock combined on a trick play to 
4:26 remaining to give Ara Parseghian's Fighting Irish the give the Crimson Tide the edge. Todd handed off to Stock. national championship. The kick marked the sixth lead­the son of the running back coach of the 1986 Irish, who change in the contest. raced to the sidelines and tossed a 25-yard touchdown pass 
back to Todd. 
Then, with three minutes to play, Alabama's Greg Gantt backed up the Irish to their own one-yard line with a 69-yard The extra-point attempt was missed, however, giving Alabama punt. Gantt was fouled onthe play, but Tide coach Paul "Bear" only a two-point lead and setting the stage for Thomas to Bryant chose to decline the penalty and let his defense go redeem himself. to work rather than keeping the ball. 
Thomas did just that. making the 1973 Sugar Bowl one of the "sweetest" victories in the long history of national­Notre Dame had different plans, however, as quarterback championship-clinching wins at Notre Dame. 
---------~---------~------, 
Irish Extra, page 4 Weekend Edition, October 3-4, 1986 
-
The Game 
vs. 


By MARTY BURNS 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Birmingham, Ala. -North against South. Catholics versus Baptists. Clash of the Titans. 
No, it's not another ABC mini-series. al­though it will be televised nationally by that network. What it is is a classic matchup involving the two greatest tradi­tions in college football. Tomorrow after­noon on Birmingham's Legion Field, second-ranked Alabama (4-0) will do battle with a 1-2 Notre Dame team that is running out of chances to prove it merits post-season bowl consideration. 
The Irish, who are comingoffa 41-9 shell­ing of Purdue, must play a near-perfect game, however, ifthey are to upend head coach Ray Perkins' Crimson Tide squad. Seventeen starters return from last season's 'Barna team, which rolled up a 9-2-1 slate and put the Tide back at the forefront of college football after a brief hiatus from the Top I 0. This year, in fact. the talk around Tuscaloosa is of a na­tional championship. 
"I don't think there's any question we know we're playing a great football team this week in Alabama," said Irish head coach Lou Holtz. "Just like against Mic­higan (a 24-2.3 Irish loss), we can't expect to have a chance unless we go down there and play with great intensity and keep our mistakes to a minimum. 
"It's tough enough to play a team like Alabama anyway. But when they've had an open date to get healthy and get ready for usand when we're playing on the road, it's that much harder. Ray Perkins was here personally to see us play Purdue, so you know he'll be ready for us." 
There is little doubt that this game means a great deal to Perkins, who succeeded Alabama's legendary Paul 'Bear' Bryant as head coach four years ago. Although Bryant's .32.3 coaching victories made his act a tough one to follow for Perkins, the Bear lost all four of his games against Notre Dame -and two of the losses cost Alabama sure national championships. It has been said in Tuscaloosa, in fact, that on Bryant's death bed someone asked him if there was anything he didn't ac­complish in his .38 years of coaching. Reportedly, the Bear mumbled, "yeah, I never could beat Notre Dame." 
Alabama's offense vs. Notre Dame's defense 
Start with an intelligent and versatile quarterback, add in a pair of lean tail­backs and a bruising fullback. throw in an all-America split end, finish it with an offensive line led by a guy named 'Hoss', and you have the recipe for a typical Al­abama offense. 
And in the tradition of 'Barna §feats like Ken Stabler, Joe Namath and Bart Starr, the quarterback is the one who will cook up the Crimson Tide offensive show. Senior Mike Shula, son ofMiami Dolphins' head coach Don Shula, is at the controls of the Tide offense and will be the key to 'Barna's offensive performance. The 6-2, 198-pound southpaw asserted himself into the 1986 Heisman Trophy race by finishing fifth in NCAA passing efficiency 
(150.0) last season, throwing for 2009 yards and a 60-percent completion rate. While Shula (47-of-77, 502 yards so far this season) has been victimized by in­terceptions six times already this year, Holtz sees very few weaknesses in Ala­bama's best clutch-performer. 

Mike Shula 
"Mike Shula just makes the big play all the time," said Holtz. "He's smart. checks off at the line very well, doesn't make mistakes and he does the things neces­sary to win football games." 
Alabama, however, always has been a running team and this one is no different. Four or five different backs carry the brunt of the 'Barna running attack which has averaged 250.5 yards per game (13th in NCAA). Sophomore tandem Gene Jelks (32 carries for 24.3 yards) and Bobby Humphrey (59 for 298) lead the charge while fullback Kerry Goode has returned nicely from injury problems to pose an­other serious threat to Tide opponents. The Irish may dodge one bullet. though, as Jelks is still questionable for the game because of a mild ankle i'l.iury. 

When Shula goes to the air, he always looks first to third-team all-America receiverAlbert Bell. Bell made a first down or touchdown on .36 of his 4 I catches last year and always draws enough coverage to free up teammates like Greg Richardson (eight catches, two touch­downs this season). In addition, the of­fensive line, Jed by 6-2, 250-pound senior center Wes Neighbors and senior tackle Hoss Johnson, protect Shula even better than they block for Jelks and company. It is projected that at least four of the current linemen will be drafted by the NFL when their collegiate days are finished. 
The biggest concern for the Irish defen­sive coaches, therefore, will be to generate a heavy pass rush to keep Shula from burning the defense on third-down situations. The Notre Dame pass rush, while certainly better than last season's, has still been a disappointment as op­posing quarterbacks have gone down only four times. The return of tackle Robert Banks, who missed the Purdue game with an injury, should help in this regard. 
If Notre Dame is to upset Alabama, Holtz knows his team will do it with defense. So far, the Irish rushing defense has received high marks, and that will have to be the case again. The secondary, which has proved to be vulnerable, may get support in the form of veteran free safety Mike Haywood, who is trying to come back after sitting out the last two games with calfstrains. 'Eagle' end Cedric Figaro, meanwhile, suffered a knee sprain against Purdue and is listed as questionable. 
Notre Dame's offense vs. Alabama's defense 
The Notre Dame offense, with its multiple sets and a surprisingly-good front line, has managed to outgain every opponent this season en route to its 16th-place cur­rent standing on the NCAA total-offense chart at 424.7 yards a game. The fact the Irish lost two-of-the three games, however, can be attributed to silly turn­overs and inconsistencies in the running game. Both of these problem areas must be held in control if Notre Dame is going to move the ball against an awesome Crimson Tide defense that yields only I I points a game on average (seventh in NCAA in scoring defense). 
"Good things will happen if we execute and don't turn the ball over," said Holtz. "We ran the ball better last week (276 net rushing yards), and that's something we've got to continue to do if we're going to be successful. Alabama has been so tough to run against. so we've got our work cut out for us there." 
Tailback Mark Green (42 carries for 160 yards on the season) found a groove last week and will have to maintain it as Notre Dame's primary ground weapon. Four­teen other players, though, have carried the ball this year for Holtz' attack. among the more prominent being fullback Per­nell Taylor, tailback AnthonyJohnson and flanker Tim Brown. 
At quarterback, the Irish will go with both regular starter Steve Beuerlein and top­reserve Terry Andrysiak. Both signal­callers have been effective this season moving the baiL but both have also ex­perienced difficulty getting the ball in the end zone. The Irish receivers, meanwhile, have been a consistent threat with fine targets Brown, Milt Jackson, Alvin Miller and Joel Williams each having caught at least five passes this year. 
All of this could be meaningless, however, if 'Barna's all-everything linebacker Cornelius Bennett decides to have one of his better games. The 6-4, 2.35-pound Outland-Trophy candidate has been likened by Perkins to current NFL star Lawrence Taylor, who Perkins coached during his stint as head coach of the New York Giants. Bennett. along with three other returning starters, makes the Tide's linebacking corps one of the top two or three in the country and causes nightmares for opponents' running games. 
The front line of 'Barna's multiple defen­sive look is also led by one star player, 6-2, 266-pound noseguard Curt Jarvis. Jarvis, an all-SEC performer, will be flanked by two talented but inexperienced tackles in sophomore Anthony Smith and senior Derrick Slaughter. If this line can put the pressure on Beuerlein and Andrysiak. an experienced secondary, led by all-SEC cornerback Freddie Robinson, will be ready to make the big play. 
As ifAlabama didn't already have enough big-play performers, there is one more. Senior placekicker Van Tiffin holds al­most every Crimson Tide kicking mark. including the seven longest field goals in Tide history and is automatic with PAT's and short field-goals. 

PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 

other words, it isn't enough to pick the winner of a given game. T.he person must pick the winner and give the underdog points.  Asst. Sports Editor 21·20·1 .512 (last week: 6-8·0)  Sports Writer 19·22·1 .463 (last week: 5·9·0)  Sports Editor 17·24·1 .415 (last week: 4-I 0·0)  SMC sports Editor 17·24·1 .415 (last week: 7·7·0)  Asst. Sports Editor 13·28·1 .317 (last week: 3· II ·0)  Guest Celebrity 17·24·1 .415 (last week: 6·8·0)  Random Student 18·23·1 .439 (last week: 8-6·0)  
Home team is in CAPS.  
MICHIGAN ST. over Iowa by 1.5 Nebraska over South Carolina by 24.5  Spartans Gamecocks  Spartans Gamecocks  Hawkeyes Cornhuskers  Spartans Cornhuskers  Spartans Cornhuskers  Spartans Cornhuskers  Spartans Gamecocks  
FLORIDA over Louisiana St. by 1  Gators  Gators  Gators  Gators  Gators  Gators  Gators  
PENN STATE over Rutgers by 15 OHIO ST. over Illinois by 15 OKLAHOMA over Kansas St. by 54  Nittany Lions Buckeyes Wildcats  Nittany Lions Buckeyes Wildcats  Scarlet Knights Buckeyes Sooners  Nittany Lions lllini Sooners  Nittany Lions lllini Sooners  Nittany Lions Buckeyes Wildcats  Nittany Lions Buckeyes Sooners  
ARKANSAS over Texas Christian by 15.5 TEXAS A&M over Texas TEch by 20.5 UCLA over Arizona St. by 6.5  Horned Frogs Aggies Sun Devils  Razorbacks Aggies Bruins  Razorbacks Red Raiders Bruins  Razorbacks Red Raiders Sun Devils  Razorbacks Aggies Sun Devils  Razorbacks Aggies Bruins  Razorbacks Red Raiders Bruins  
PITTSBURGH over Temple by 10  Owls  Panthers  Panthers  Panthers  Panthers  Panthers  Panthers  
SOUTHERN CAL over Oregon by 19.5 Michigan over WISCONSIN by 19 SO. METHODIST over Boston Coli. by ALABAMA over Notre Dame by 5.5  7.5  Trojans Badgers Eagles Crimson Tide  Trojans Badgers Mustangs Irish  Trojans Badgers Mustangs Crimson Tide  Trojans Badgers Eagles Irish  Ducks Badgers Eagles Crimson Tide  Trojans Wolverines Eagles Irish  Trojans Badgers Mustangs Irish  

The Observer 
Friday, October 3, 1986, -page 7 

Sports Briefs 
WVFI-AM 64 will provide live coverage of tomorrow's Notre Dame-Alabama football game. Frank Mastro and Kevin Her­bert will handle the play-by-play from Legion Field in Bir­mingham. Studio host Rudy Brandl will update scores from around the country throughout the afternoon. It all starts 2 
p.m. with the pre-game show featuring "College Football Today" with Brian Broderick and Sean Munster, "The Lou Holtz Show" and "Irish Review." -The Observer 
The ND Women's Soccer Club increased their record to 5-4 with a 4-2 victory over Wheaton. Kate Titterton scored twice and Kerry Haverkamp and Katy Kennelly each had one. Teresa Sheppard had both assists on Titterton's goals. The team's next game is today against Hope College at Stepan field at 4:30p.m. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC Ski Team will have its first organizational meeting Tuesday, Oct. 7 in the Library Auditorium at 7 p.m. Anyone interested in trying out for the team or in the Christmas trip to Jackson Hole, Wyoming, should attend. If you have any questions, call Kathy (4029), Jeff (3660), Joe (I 190) or Lisa (284-4415). -The Observer 
The ND Raquetball Club will sponsor a men's clinic on Monday, Oct. 7, from 8 to 9 p.m. at the ACC Court One. A ladies clinic will also be held Tuesday, Oct. 8, at the same time and place. All are welcome. For more information call Dave Pyron at 1393. -The Observer 
The SMC Varsity Basketball team will hold practice this Monday, Oct. 6, from 6 to 8 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility. Interested players should bring proof of a recent physician's clearance to the first practice. Call 284-5548 for more infor­mation. -The Observer 
The ND Weight and Fitness Club will hold instructinal semi­nars in the third floor weight room of the Rockne Memorial on Sunday, Oct. 5, at 12:30 p.m. You must be a member to attend. Sign-ups for membership will be at noon before the seminars and will include a $10 dues fee for the year. For more information call Dave Crandall at 272-3493. -The Ob­server 
The SMC varsity swim team will hold practice today at the Rockne Memorial Pool on the Notre Dame campus from 3:30 to 5:30 p.m. Interested swimmers should bring proof of a recent physician's clearance to the first practice. Call 284­5548 for more information. -The Observer 
Walker dealt to Nuggets 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The New York Knicks traded guard Darrell Walker, their No. I pick in the 1983 NBA draft, to Denver yes­terday for the Nuggets' first­round pick next year. 
"The opportunity to obtain a first-round draft choice existed, which is an asset we can imme­diately utilize in a trade if a deal arises, or save for the 1987 col­lege draft," Knicks General Manager Scotty Stirling said of the deal. 
Walker, from the University of Arkansas, averaged I 0.6 points in his three seasons with the Knicks, during which he missed just one game. After making the NBA all-rookie team in 1984, he had his best season in 1984-85, averaging 13.5 points. 

The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Frida~. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collg Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Frida . Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either In person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five ch;uacters per day. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
Wordprocesslng resumes, etc. Typeset quality. 287-9024. 
Wordprocesslng-Typing 272-8827 
SAME-DAY TYPING NO Pick-up Quick-Type, Inc. 277-8998 
TYPINGoWORDPROCESSING CALL DOLORES 2n-8131. 
BUFFALO BUS FOR OCTOBER BREAK·COST:$60 ROUND TRIP; SIGN-UPS:THURS OCT.2,7-9 PM,117 B.P. AND TUES OCT.7,7·9 PM,336 LEWIS; QUESTIONS-CALL KIM £4329 
Professional word processing and typing. Convenlenllocatlon on N.lron­wood. Call NICS 2n-4220. 
LOST/FOUND I 
HELP! I LOST MY FAVORITE NO SWEATSHIRT IN NIEULAND SCIENCE HALL TUESDAY. IT'S GREY, SIZE SMALL, AND HAS SMALL HOLES ALL OVER THE FRONT. PLEASE CALL BARB AT 1349 IF FOUND. I CANT'T FACE THE PURDUE GAME WITHOUT IT. REWARDIIIII 
$$SREWARD$$S Lost Pentax K1000 camera In Hurley, Tuesday, Sept. 23. Please call Jenny at 288-2773. $$$REWARDSSS 
LOST: One ADVERTISING STRATE· GIES text In Hurley. If found, please return to Portia Amberg In 145 Lyons Hall or call 283·2999. 
FOUND: One gold charm bracelet be­tween Alumni and Dillon. Call Mark at 1712 for positive 1.0. 
FOUND: A 100% WOOL BASEBALL CAP AT LUNCH IN SOUTH DINING HALL ON FRIDAY SEPT. 26. CALL JOHN 283·1483. 
LOST: Blue Patagonia pull-over jacket, Hurley Hall, Sunday !v.!1 Con­tained Important keys In pouch pocket. Please return keys at least Call John at 1666 lor Information leading to the arrset of this jacket 
LOST: NO football tickets, this last Saturday, before Purdue game. Lost near Sr. Bar area, on Green Field. II found, call Kate, £3701, 236 Lewis. 
PHIL SHERIDAN, I FOUND YOUR BOOKBAG. CALL £3:;49 TO CLAIM 
LOST: Light blue windbreaker with WLU SKI TEAM written on the back. Please call Pat -1581 -or drop It off at 1111 Flanner Hall REWARD! 
LOST:FRIDAY NIGHT AT BRIT· GETS ... OLD BLUE JEAN JACKET CONTAINING KEYS AND LICENSE. THIS JACKET HAS EXTREME SEN­TIMENTAL VALUE. PLEASE, IF YOU'VE SEEN IT, CALL 2172 OR STOP BY 433 LEWIS. REWARD OFFERED. 
I NEED MY BACKPACK!!!!! If you find a red KREEGER & SONS backpack please call Faith Ellen at 232-5743. Thanks. 
FOUND!! KEYS, GLASSES, CAL­CULATORS, BOOKS ... STILL LOCKED OUT OF YOUR ROOM? GETTING WET EVERY TIME IT RAINS BECAUSE YOU CAN'T FIND YOUR UMBRELLA? CHECK THE LOST AND FOUND OF­FICE!! FIRST FLOOR OF LAFORTUNE, OPEN MONDAY THRU FRIDAY, 8:00­12:00 AND 1:00-5:00 
LOST: Radio Shack calculator. II found, please call James at x1150 
................................................................ 
WANTED 
SKI All WINTER! Crystal Mountain Is now hiring children's ski Instructors lor the winter season. Salary plus room & board. Contact Martha Mandel or Dave Hofacker at (616)378-2911. 
EARN UP TO $8 AN HOUR As a delivery driver you must have your own car. Hours are llexable. PIZZA HUT DELIVERY Apply at 138 112 DIXIE WAY NORTH.In Roseland around the corner on Murray St. 
Need One-Way ride to Pittsburgh lor Fall Break. Will help with cost. Call Amy, 1825, ASAP. Need to leave Fri., 10-17. 
PART-TIME DESK CLERK. Bookkeep­Ing experience helpful. Night! Evening shift. $4.001lr. 233·1154. 
FOR SALE 
TV RENTALS -LOW SEMESTER RATES. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 
FORMERLY COLOR CITY 272·5959. 
................................................................ 
EXCELLENT QUALITY & GREAT DESIGN : "NOTRE DAME BEACH CLUB" T-SHIRTS ARE ON SALE NOW FOR ONLY $8.00 . CALL GREG FOR INFORMATION AT 2n·3932. 
FOR THOSE BEACH CLUB T-SHIRTS, YOU MIGHT ALSO TRY TO CALL GREG AT 272-3932. 
1976 Toyota Corolla Sport Coupe. Runs great, good condition, only 71000 mi., 2 dr.,4sp., asking $1095. Call 287-9061. 
MACINTOSH 128k with carrying case, printer, loads of software asking $1150 Call Tom at 4307 after 8pm 
1980 Honda Civic Wagon, Air, AMFM,5-speed, No Rust, Very Reli­able, $1,650, 233·9947. 
TICKETS 
$$ I NEED 1-8 AIR FORCE GA'S $$ DAN 3273 
................................................................ 
HELP! I NEED 2 OR 4 GA'S FOR ALL HOME GAMES. WILL PAY CASH! CALL TOM AT 1n4. 
NEED 10 PITT TIXS OR SECURI rY BOY, WILL MY BROTHER KILL ME IF YOU DON'T GIVE ME TIXS CALL JOE 239-7471 OR 283-1931. THANKS 
PENN STATE TICKETS NEEDED CALL 3520 
IN A PANIC!! Family coming In from Jersey and Ohio for PITT GAME­MNEED SIX TIX-GAISTUD! Steph 272· 5417 
NEED 2 GA's for SMU call Pam 283· 3503 
WANTED: 4 PITT TICKETS BADLY NEEDED. CALL DAVE AT 3810 
HELP! P.W. Partner(my boss) needs 4 GA & 2 student tickets lor Pitt Oct. 11. I love my job & my life!! Call Joanne (716)837-9176 
NEED 10 STUDENT PITT TIX! CALL 284-5207. 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA'S CALL TOM at 4307 after 8pm 
My big brother and little sister have never seen Notre Dame win. Please help grant them their God-given right by selling me two Air Force GAs or student tickets. Call Mark at God bless you. 
DESPERATELY NEED 'BAMA TICK· ETS -WILLING TO PAY BIG BUCKS CALL FOR TRIPP BALTZ AT 234-4642 OR 239-5303. 
My big brother and little sister have never seen Notre Dame win. Please grant them their God-given right by selling me TWO Air Force GAs or stu­dent tickets. Call Mark at God bless you. 
I NEED PITT GAS & ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 
I NEED 2 OR 4 AIR FORCE GA'S PLEASE CALL 2157 
NEED ONE OR TWO GA'S FOR PITT -CALL CURTIS AT 1421 
NEED TWO G.A.s FOR PENN STATE Call Chris at 1788 If willing to sell. 
NEED 3 PITT TIXS 2GM STUD OR 3GA EVEN WILLING TO PAY$$$ DAVE 1739 
BIG $$ 4 PITT STUOOA'S X-4280 
TONY DORSETT, TRAVELING WITH 3 COWGIRLS, IS COMING TO SEE HIS OL' ALMA MATER TAKE ON THE IRISH. NEED 4 PITT GA'S. CALL MARK (1666) 
HAVE 5 GAs lor SMU, NEED 5 GAs for PITT. Will TRADE or pay CASH. Call Nellie at 3602. 
NEED 6 PITT GA'S. CALL PATTY 284­5257. 
NEEDED: 5 GA'S FOR THE AIR FORCE GAME. 284-5320. $$$$ 
HELP! NEED 2 PITT GA CALL 1599 ANSWER MY PRAYERS and sell me 2 GA's to the AF game. Call me eter­nally grateful. But please, call me, Mary (after 8 PM) 283-3090. 

I have a 'Penn pal' In need of some humiliation. Help me out with 1 PENN STATE GA or STUDENT ticket. Jlm­1729. 
NEED 1 ARMY GAlli! JIM·1729 

I NEED 2 AIR FORCE G.A.s. PLEASE CALL MELISSA 283·3848. 
NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA'S-famlly's first visit CALL 272·3463 after 9:30 
PLEASE SELL ME YOUR STUDENT TICKETS FOR AIR FORCE! I NEED 'EM!IIIII £234-4642 OR 239·5303 ASK FOR TB 
I Desperately Need 1 Or 2 Pitt. GA's or Student's. Willing To Pay Big $$$. 
Call Jim At 1061. 

Need 5 Alrlorce GAs Family coming from Buffalo,NY will pay cash! PLEASE CALL Pat 289-4635 ENDED 
DESPERATELY NEED 6 SMU GA'S...CALL NANCY, 3829 
I NEED GA's FOR PITT CALL MIKE £ 1658 
OESPARATELY NEED 3 PENN ST. TICKETS, STUDENT OR GA. FAMILY IS COMING FOR BIRTHDAY. PLEASE CALL MARY, 272·5783. 
I have many bros and sisters coming lor A-F game!l NEED TIX! PLEASE HELP MEl CALL MARK AT 43021$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED 4 GA'S FOR PITT & AIR FORCE. CALL GAIL KRZYSKOWSKI284·5139. 
PERSONALS 

GUIDE TO GREENCARD FROM F/J;H VISAS. FOR DETAILS, SEND $1 (P&H) IMMIGRATION PUBLICATIONS, P.O. BOX 515991, DALLAS, TX 75251. 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
TOP QUALITY "NOTRE DAME BEACH CLUB" T-SHIRTS ARE ON SALE NOW. PLEASE CALL GREG OR KEN FOR MORE INFORMATION AT 2n-3932 OR 272-3932. 
ATTENTION FORMER EDITOR5-IN· CHIEF & OBSERVER STAFFERS: Write us and give us your address and let us know what you're doing. 
OFF-CAMPUS SENIORSIIIII OFF· CAMPUS SENIORS!!III Info. on all Senior Class activities, Dogbooks, Senior Gold Cards, and all upcoming events can now be picked up at the Senior Class Office, 2nd floor Lefor· tune, nOrtheast wing 
CLASS OF 19871111 Tippecanoe Place Twilight Dinner Special $8.95 4-course meals with Senior Gold Card!!! Friday, Oct. 3 Don't miss out on this onelll CLASS OF 1987!1111 
Going to, near, or thru Atlanta? Desparately need a ride lor Fall Break! Call Rob at 1546. Will more than share expenses. 
Grace Hall SYR It's coming! Grace Hall SYR It's coming! 
Hey Spoony, I LOVE YOU!!! Love, BooBoo Bear 
••••HAPPYBIRTHDAY•• 
•TOPATRICKCRAWFORD • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Best wishes from Chris and Mark. Have a great next yaar. 
Willing to sell two G.A.s for Air Force? Call Chris at 1788 for a good deal. 
FALL FEST IS COMING. GET READY TO KICK OFF THE BEST FALL YET. THE FINALE IS THE GARDENS. 
Ride Needed NYCUWestchester Area For October Break -Can Leave Thur Will Share Expenses. Call 2853 or 3010. 
NUDISTS!ATTENTION NUDISTS! (or anyone) Have a great party! Great music on a top professional sound system. OJ with radlo,club and party experience!! The Commlsloner of Fun ·237 0199!1BE A PARTY HERO CHEAPLY CALL 237-0199!1 
SENIORS: IF YOU DON'T WANT IBM, PROCTER & GAMBLE, THE BIG 8 · INVEST IN AN ALTERNATIVE CAREER WHERE VALUES ARE OF ESSENCE IN WHAT YOU DO. EX­PLORE HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES PROGRAMS: USA & CHILE. CONTACT: MARY ANN ROEMER (CSC) OR JANE PITZ (HCA OFFICE). 
Hungry? Call THE YELLOW SUB­MARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery hours: Monday -Thursday 5pm·12am; Friday 5pm-2am; Saturday 5pm-1am; Sunday 4pm-10pm. 
WASHINGTON D.C.BUS SIGN-UPS TUES., OCT. 7th from 6-7pm In the lobby of LaFortune ?'s call Kevin Vlrostek 1570 
:An'ENrio·N·..;;i:i:...cAPP..MA':io.iis···ii 
you plan to attend the meeting on Monday, Oct 6 please contact Dan Bender 288-5599 the speaker will be Steve Nagengast of Crowe Chizek and Co. It will be held In the library lounge at 7 pm any questions call Dan 
"Recreation Is the shadow of produc­tivity." Troy Wilson, Lunchtime Philosopher 
CATHY, a good design assistant should proofread her classllleds... Best of luck, Andy 
;:~·M~ii~~~:..ih;·~i~~~~-~~i;j··;.;~..k'~~;i 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY ... DAy ... Day ... day... Love, Jacqul, Mike and Debbie 
J·;;c-i<iE:..oii'Nii.;;i:it:-r;···a·ii···;;i::L..va·u 
CAN BE ON YOUR 19TH B·DAYI NOT JUST A JOB-AN ADVENTURE! ATTN! ALL NO MEN (no boys or Total Jerks) CALL 3946 OR STOP BY 331 BADIN 
FOR XOXOX'S. OOHHI-ROCK ME AMADEUS . . . BACK AND FORTH­REAL HARD! WE LUV VA! Chrls,Tara,Kate,Ana,Jenn,AIIcla, & Cathy BUZZ BUS BUZZ BUS EVERY FRI & SAT NIGHT 12 -3 AM IN HALF HOUR CYCLES BUZZ BUS TAKE THE SAFE WAY HOME FROM BARS AND PAR­TIES STOPS AT SR. BAR, 5 PTS., COR· NER OF ST. LOUIS & HOWARD, N.D. APTS., MAIN CIRCLE, SMC HOLY CROSS, NO LIBRARY CIRCLE, CAMPUS VIEW & TURTLE CREEK APTS. BUZZ BUS -IT'S ONLY 25 CENTS! 
Survey says... DING! Glen 
Quote of the week: There's COPS all over this place! 
MICHAEL PETER HUDSON-I'm winking at you! guess who-1 love you from alar. TWACKED TWACKED! 
CREAM YOUR FAVORITE LYONITE CREAM YOUR FAVORITE LYONITE CREAM YOUR FAVORITE LYONITE CREAM YOUR FAVORITE LYONITE CREAM YOUR FAVORITE -THROW A PIE IN THE FACE OF YOUR FAVORITE LYONS CHICK-0 FRIDAY OCT. 10, 
4:30 UNDER LYONS ARCH ON SALE IN DINING HALLS FRI, MON & TUES ·$2 A PIE ·SIGN UP NOW!! 
Hey M.~M.IIII the furniture could only speak You'd be In jail at least a week. So lor my silence you'll have to pass a load of bucks, to save your: -m. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY to the boy with a thorn In his side! HA HA HO HO HA HA, Bigmouth strikes again Morrissey. Your erstwhile roomie, FISHBONE. 
Big screen TV at the Alumni Senior Club lor Saturday's game against AI· abama. The Club opens at 1 :30 p.m. Pizza, burgers, brats. Cheer on the Irish! 
I have 4 tlx to see Genesis In Chicago on Mon. Oct 6. I can't go. Will anyone be willing to trade their tlx lor mine. Reward $$$ lor generosity. 31n Tom or J.P. 
with THE LAW Friday & Saturday night at CHIPS 
They're Back THE LAW at CHIPS Frl & Sat Nlte 
MARY ELBERSON turns 21 today!! Happy Legality Mary Clarey! Love, Patty & Cathy 
HELP!! I NEED A RIDE TO CINCINNA Tl LEAVING THURS OCT 17 OR EARLY FRI OCT 18 WILL SHARE EXPENSES I AM GETTING DESPERATEIIII CALL MARY 283-4311 
IN LESS THAN 48 HRS .... BEVERL Y HILLS RECEPTION FREE MUSIC, FOOD, REFRESHMENTS! PRIZE FOR WINNER OF EDDIE MURPHY TRIVIA QUIZ SAT. 9PM-1AM NORTH DINING HALL ALL ARE WELCOME!! 
LISA STOCKHUS, HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY! NOW YOU CAN HAVE YOUR SHOPPING SPREES AT SOME· PLACE IMPORTANT. ENJOY LEGALITY FOR US. WE LOVE YOU, LOUISE AND AMY. 
HEY P ·GUESS WHO. IT'S HARD TO BELIEVE THAT A WEEK AGO TONIGHT WE WERE KNEE DEEP IN MUD AND MORE! AND THIS WEEKEND..•YEH, I KNOW, THERE'S NOTHING YOU CAN DO ABOUT IT, RIGHT? ANYWAY, THINK ABOUT ALL OF OUR GOOD TIMES OR BAD, BUT MOST OF ALL, THINK OF ME ... PLEASE. 


The Observer Friday, October .3, 1986, -page 8 
CFA 
continued from page 12 
The same thing with the faculty 
representatives and athletic 
directors. 
"At the same time, we try to think of things in terms of the things that will enable you to keep your program alive finan­cially. Things keep getting more expensive, and we're in a period now where there's not inflation so adding a lot of money to the cost of your ticket becomes a problem. People resent it be­cause the inflation figures are not that high." 
But the split between the schools playing Division 1-A foot­ball means that the CFA's goal of a unified arena for discussing the issues confronting college football has never been realized, and the organization is now known more for its television negotiations. Corrigan, however, indicates that something else for achieving that goal is on the horizon. 
"The fact that the university presidents of the Big Ten and Pac 10 would not allow their schools to be members of the CFA in many ways has dampened some of the enthusiasm for what the CFA is all about." Corrigan says. "Some people felt in the begin­ning that what they wanted to do was add more coaches, add more scholarships and add more money. That's not the case at all. The case is to make football bet­ter in every way. Again, the fact that those two conferences haven't joined really has been unfortunate because over and over I've had athletic directors from both those conferences say, 'Gee I wish we were in the CFA because we do need to meet and talk.' 
"This summer we had a meet­ing of all the athletic directors of the Division 1-A schools, which was what the CFA was intended to be the first time around. We're going to have another meeting (at the end of this month), and we're going to see how it goes from there. That may be some­thing good. 
"The thing I'm interested in the most is getting all the schools together that have the same problems," Corrigan continues. "I don't think one group should be over here and another group over there. That doesn't make any sense to me. The NFL and AFL were wasting a lot of talent, time and energy. Now they're to­gether and it's a powerful thing. I think we should be the same. I'm not blaming the CFA for where we are. This new thing of having (the athletic directors meet) could be very influential in the future." 
Still, the CFA has at least kept its smaller members in the television-revenue picture. Cor­rigan points out that Notre Dame could go it alone and do better financially than it does with the CFA, but that wouldn't be good for college football. 
"I'd like to see all of the big schools together on the same page moving in the same direc­tion for the good of college ath­letics, and I think that's the cri­tical thing." says Corrigan. "I don't want to get into the Big Ten, Pac I 0 and CFA. Hey, we're all in this thing together. The sooner we bring ourselves to­gether, the better off we're going to be." 
Lehman 
continuedjrompage 12 
Ryan expects a lot out of Leh­man and the rest of the Irish as they run against Detroit Saturday on Burke Golf Course at I 0:00 
a.m. The Irish are looking to prove themselves at the dual meet. Each team has finished ahead of the other at one of its two previous matches. 
~111111/J
....... 
I,_IIF~ 
Non-Varsity Athletics has announced deadlines for registra­tion for a number of upcoming NVA events. Oct.8 is the deadline for the following events .on the NVA calendar. 
VOLLEYBALL: tournaments for men, women, faculty and staff. 
RACQUETBALL: singles' tournaments for men, women and grad-faculty, best-of-three Aames to 21. 
BADMINTON: open, double-elimination tournament, equi­pmemt and rules provided. 
CO-REC BASKETBALL: five men and five women, all men must be from same hall. $10 entry fee for officials. 
In addition, an ARCHERY CLINIC is being held Oct.6, 8 and 13 from 4 to 5:30 p.m. for beginners and intermediates. A $3 entry fee must be paid at the NVA office and all equipment will be provided. 
Information and registration for these and other NVA events may be obtained by stopping by the NVA office in the ACC, or by calling NVA at 239-6100. 

Mon-Thurs 9-8pm Fri 9-6pm
\ Ca~pus 
Sat 8-4pm
~I 
Hair Crafters NOW!! 
3Hair Designers 
Tami Lupa Julie Krause 
Salon 
Lynn Johnson
framesi Color 
PAUL MITCHELL 
t; HIAITIAI Products 
LOTOS Perms 
Also!! Nails See Cindi for: 
Sculpture nails, gels or solar French Manicures Pedicures/Manicures Silk wraps 

284-5363 Saint Mary's-Lemans Hall 
~---------------------------­
1 Coupon good for 1 I a FREE Paul Mitchel 1 1 Hair care product with 1 I a haircut or nails. 1 
II
I 
Expires Dec. 1
1 1 


o««r:l" :\ ~' 
\ q~ ~~·,
0
ra,~ :~0 oO ,~ Now' you can nO~¢<:.', lOOk & feel 
'~­
,
,~,' ~greatallyearl
, 
Call us at 
272-7653 

~ao~ 
Sanitized tanning booths and beds Expiration dote: Sept. 26, 1986 
tktJn4J4t_~ 

Multicultural ~s Fall Festival 
c!t1WsiJLChats 
October 6th -1Oth 

Monday, October 6th 
Dr. Thomas Swartz on EUROPE 
Tuesday, October 7th 
Dr. Silvia Anadon on LATIN AMERICA 
Wednesday, October 8th 
Dr. Mahir Dahir on MIDDLE EAST 
Thursday, October 9th 
Provost Timothy O'Meara on CHINA 
Friday, October 1Oth 
Dr. Jim Bellis on AFRICA 
Refreshments will be provided 
--~-------~----­
The Observer Friday, October 3, 1986, -page 9 

APPhoto 
score In baseball action yesterday. More details on last night's games appear below. 

Mattingly sets Yankee hit mark; Mets pound Expos behind Gooden 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Don Mattingly set the New York Yankees' single­season hit record with a double and single last night in a 6-I vic· tory over the Boston Red Sox. · 
Mattingly singled in the seventh inning for his 232nd hit breaking the club record of 231 set by Hall of Farner Earle Combs in 1927. During a four-run fifth, Mattingly hit his 52nd double of the year, tying the team mark set by Hall of Farner Lou Gehrig in 
1927. 
Mattingly, bidding to overtake Boston's Wade Boggs for the American League batting cham­pionship, went 2-for-4 and his average stayed at .350. Boggs, hitting .357, sat out the game with a hamstring injury. 
Doug Drabek, 7-8, pitched three-hit ball tor tl 1-3 innings. first pitcher in major league his­Drabek walked seven and struck tory to strike out at least 200 bat­out six. ters in each of his first three 
Dave Righetti got the final out seasons, recording seven for his 44th save. against the Expos before being 
Dave Winfield went 3-for-5, in­lifted for a pinch-hitter in the cluding a trip!~ and double with ninth. Gooden finished the night two runs batted in, in New York's exactly at 200 strikeouts before 13-hit attack. Rick Anderson came on to pitch 
Bruce Hurst, 13-8, took the the ninth. 
loss. Loser Floyd Youmans, 13-12, struck out I 0 batters to also raise Mets 8, Expos 2 his season's total over the 200 mark. He finished the night with 
MONTREAL -Dwight Gooden 202, giving up eight hits and pitched a four-hitter over eight walking three. innings and set a standard for With the victory, the Mets tied 
strikeouts as the New York Mets, the National League record for 
with Gary Carter and Darryl most road wins set twice by the Strawberry hitting homers, beat Cincinnati Reds, in 1972 and the Montreal Expos 8-2 last night 1976. for their record-tying 53rd road victory. 
Astros 2, Giants
Gooden, I 7-6, became the SAN FRANCISCO -Bill Doran led off the I oth inning with a solo 
homer to give Houston a 2-I vic­tory yesterday over the San Fran­cisco Giants in a game that saw the Astros' Mike Scott make a bid for his second straight no-hitter. 

Will Clark ended Scott's no-hit bid with a lead-off double in the seventh inning and scored on Candy Maldonado's double, giving the Giants a 1-0 lead. 
Scott had a perfect game for 5 1-3 innings on the heels of his no-hit victory over the Giants Sept. 25 at Houston that clinched the NL west division for the 
Astros.
Special Hours for 
Saturday's Gamel 
Come watch the Irish CRUSH the Crimson Tide. 

Fallon leads ND tennis for 30th and final time 
ironwood liquors
Saturday, Oct. 4th 
1725 North Ironwood South Bend 
272·7144 

1:30 -one hour after the game 
::::::::::::=~=;=~=~=~=======================:Pizza I BurgersI Brats:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::===~=======~ ==:::=:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::===================:=:Big Screen T.V.=================================~::::::::=:~=~===~=== 
Cheer the Irish on to another victory. 
(Must be 21) 

1t 
219-872-2114 
Open 7 Day1 per w"k 
MICHIANA STABLES 
Tr•ll Aldel  •  Pony Alde1  •  H•y Alde1  
• Lenon• • Boerdlng eTI'IIInlng  U.S. 12 (East of Michigan City) MICHIGAN CITY, IN 41310  

By GREG ANDRES Sports Write'r 
Saturday, Oct. 4, will begin the end for Notre Dame's winningest coach. 
For the 3oth and final time, Head Coach Tom Fallon will be at the helm of the Notre Dame men's tennis team. 
For Fallon, though this season "in many ways is just like the first, you always try to do the best job you can." 
Fallon will showcase the 1986 
Irish in the Notre Dame Invita­
tional which takes place this 
weekend. The man whose name 
has become synonymous with 
tennis and winning at Notre 
Dame will be looking to add to 
And rightly so. 
The Irish return six of seven 
starters from last year's Eastern 
Collegiate Championship team. 
In addition, last year's team 
placed second in a hard-fought 
bid for the Midwestern Cities 
Championship and complied 26 
wins against only nine losses. 
What is even more impressive is 
that the Irish accomplished this 
with four freshmen. 
Dave Reitter feels, as a soph­
omore, he has "more cofidence 
going into the season having a 
year of experience behind me." 
Reitter commeneted that as a 
freshman, "I often felt in­
timidated playing against more 
experienced college players." 
Reitter will be joined by sop­
homores Brian Kalibas, Tony 
Cahill and Tim Carr, occupying 
the top four slots for the Irish. 
Kalibas, who has played tough 
all fall, will play No. I for the 
Irish. Playing both first and 
second last year, Kalibas com­
piled a record of 28-I I . 
"He knows how to win," says 
Fallon of Kalibas. "He doesn't 
have what you would call classic 
strokes but he is a smart player 
who has good control and the 
attitude and willingness to stay 
out there and gut out points." 
"We all have different playing 
styles but we are all competitors 
and we all want to do well," 
Kalibas says. 
Sophomore Tony Cahill, who 
plays fourth singles, was key to 
the success of the Irish last year, 
and will move up to No. 2 this 
season. Fallon believes thejump 
"will be a good challenge for 
Tony" and thinks he "is up to it, 
he has been working hard and is 
the kind of kid who thrives on a 
challenge." 
Sophomores Carr and Reitter 

will represent the Irish at third and fourth singles, respectively. Carr, who has had a shoulder in­jury, returns after putting in a strong season last year playing both second and third singles. Carr, who Fallon feels is the best doubles player on the team, combines with Reitter in 
doubles. 
Reitter, the harderst worker on 
the team according to Fallon, 
moves up to the fourth-singles 
position from the fifth spot he 
played last year. 
Either junior Paul Daggs or 
freshman Mike Wallace will play 
I
fifth, and the other sixth, for the 
Irish. 
~ 
Daggs. who played sixth part j of the season last year, has "returned determined to play," 
l 
says Fallon. Wallace, from Ft. Lauderdale, 
l 
Fla., is the lone newcomer for ~ 
the Irish. Fallon admits to being 
"very impressived with Wallace." 
"He has good variety," Fallon 
says. "He has a good serve, good 
forehand, backhand, moves 
well, knows what to do with the 
ball and doesn't just try to knock 
the cover off the ball." 
Do not count out junior Dan 
Walsh, who played No. I for the 
for the Irish a year ago. Walsh 
currently fits in as the seventh 
man in the lineup. Right behind 
Walsh is the only senior on the 
team, Tom Greir, who will most 
likely see doubles action this 
weekend. 
Playing doubles for the Irish 
will most likely be Wallace and 
Cahill, Carr and Reitter, Walsh 
and Daggs, and Kalibas and 
Greir. But the challenges 
matches have yet to be com­
pleted so the lineup is only tena­
tive. 
Opening the season in the in­
vitational, the Irish will face 
Evansville at 9 a.m. and Western 
Mighigan at I p.m. on Saturday, 
and Oral Roberts on Sunday at 
I p.m. 
The Irish will most likely find 
Oral Roberts to be the biggest 
obstacle standing in the way of 
capturing their third-consecutive 
title. It was Oral Roberts which 
the Irish nipped, 5-4, on Carr and 
Reiter's doubles victory, in last 
year's final. However, it was the 
same Oral Roberts team that 
deprieved the Irish of the Mid­
Western Cities Championship in 
another 5-4 match. But Western 
Mighigan, a strong Mid-America 
team, and Evansville, a fairly 
strong school from the southern 
part of the state, will also be 
tough, according to Fallon. 
Fallon enters his final season 
with a team that he feels is "a 
good bunch of players, who are 
anxious to play and eager to 
work." 
"''ve been through this long 
enough to know that a lot of 
things you don't anticipate. like 
an injury or bad break, can hap­pen and throw off your whole schedule." 
WEDONOTCUU BALDNESSI 
Wehelpy....w
........,...........,....... 
-'1111 ,...,.,.MlnoxM/1­
Atter years of research, Hair Loss Center has an enhrely new concept in the treatment of hair loss that produces visible results. Ceil tor aFREE con­sultation to see rt your thinning hair problem can be SQived, before rt's too late. 

HAIR LOSS CENTER 
703 LWW, lllshawakl Ph. 255-8608 
Saturday Noon-4 p.m. 
' 
~-CotitiMI, C...ltMrt 


-----------~-----­
------~---------.. 

The Observer Friday, October 3, 1986, -page 1 0 


Invite 
continuedfrom page 12 
The veteran Garrett also is im­pressed with O'Connor's atti­tude. 
"He's a very talented runner," says Garrett. "And he pushes both himself and us during prac­tice. No one can stay with him." 
Even though O'Connor seems to be out in front the rest of the Irish squad is steadily improving. Both Mulvey and Garrett. as well as Markezich, have run well of late, and Piane will need their best performances today against opponents from University of Southern Florida, East Michigan, last year's winner Edinboro, and last week's winner in the Catholic Invitational. St. Thomas. 
"This is going to be a harder meet than last week's," said Piane. "It will definitely be inter­esting." 
With such a strong team run­ning for him, however, Piane agrees with O'Connor's preview of the season. 
"Mike is I 00-percent cor­rect, "said Piane. "We can't look to the future." 
Instead Piane will look to today's meet and get a look at his team's potential and deter­mination in its last home meet of the year. 
Today's race will start at 2 p.m. on the 16th fairway of the Burke Memorial Golf Course and will end on the 2nd fairway. 

Irish hope solid pitching continues in Bradley Fall Baseball Tourney 
By STEVE MEGARGEE pitchers can hope to keep being scoreless innings this fall. Sports Writer Gallo's good luck cnarm. "We've had pretty good pitch­Thought to be the team's major ing," said senior left fielder Scott 
For Notre Dame head coach weakness, the staff instead has Rogers. "Our pitchers have Larry Gallo, the fall baseball been the surprise of the fall. worked really hard. At times our season has brought its share of "I think we've played well this bats weren't doing the job, but I 
good news and bad news. fall. I'm surprised with the pitch­feel our hitting's coming 
He hopes this weekend he will ing performances we've gotten around." see an end to the bad news, rain , " said Gallo. "The starting rota­forcing game cancellations, and tion (for the spring) is still far It appears Rogers will be one a second straight weekend of from being determined. We'll of three senior outfielders this good news, the excellent pitch­probably bring I 0 pitchers to the spring. Ken Soos and John ing that has propelled the Irish tournament." Loughran probably will fill the to a 3-I fall record. Notre Dame players also have other starting slots. 
Weather permitting, Notre noticed the improved pitching, The infield situation, having 
Dame will face its sternest test which has been led by freshman lost two of fast year's starters in of the fall tomorrow and Sunday Brian Piotrowicz, a South Bend Tom Shields and Rich Vanthour­in the Bradley University Fall native who has pitched nine nout is much less certain. Baseball Tournament at Peoria, Ill. 
The Irish will meet St.Xavier and Bradley tomorrow, before facing Creighton and Lewis on 

COMING! R
Sunday. "Creighton is an excellent team, Bradley is a good team, 

OCTOBER W and Lewis and St. Xavier have small athletic programs where 
BREAK 
. ~ 
baseball is the kingpin," said Gal­lo. "We've got to get some good weather just to be able to get back to work on the things on which we've been concentrat­ing." 
Rain in South Bend already has forced the postponement of a 

I 1_.Condition In Booth
Blue-Gold intrasquad game scheduled for fast Saturday, but 

~Tanln Beds 
players feel they stiff have had a productive fall season. 

~Relax on Massage Bed 
"Having the tarp to cover the field has really helped," said 
Call277-7026
sophomore infielder Pat Pesavento. "We've gotten in as 
J.M.S. PLAZA
much as we could this fall with the weather being the way it is." 
4609 Grape Road

1M...~ 
If Peoria weather conditions 
Mishawaka 
overcome the bad news, the Irish 


-

~c:»cJICl~----------------------------------Fri-day-,O-c-tob-er-3,_19-86_._-p-ag--ell 
Lunchtime: Student falculty lunch, sponsored vitational, Oral Roberts, Western Michigan, 5 Petal perfumeby ND Management Club, Senior Bar 12 p.m.: E~nsville, Notre Dame, Courtney Courts 10 Charles' pet
Lecture, topic: "The Religion Clauses: Disen­
12:30 p.m.: JS Steering Committee Meeting. 14 Field measure tangling Entanglement and Relieving the Ten­
Council Room, Morris Inn 15 Luster sion" speaker: Prof. Edward M. Gaffney, 16 Make muddy 
2:30 p.m.: Football, Notre Dame vs. Alabama Loyola Law School, Los Angeles, I 0 I Law 17 Bermuda
at Birmingham 
thingsSchool, open to public 

3 p.m.: Women Cross Country, Notre Dame 
20 Exclamation12: 15-I: 15 p.m.: Lecture, topic; "Women and vs. Detroit. Burke Golf Course for attention Connict", speaker: Dr. Doris Donnelly, SMC. 

5 p.m.: ND-SMC Right to Life Mass, Bishop 21 Tom Center for Spirituality's Issues Facing Women 
John D'Arcy, celebrant, Sacred Heart Church 22 Bone: pref. in the Church, Fall 1986 series, Stapleton 23 Spouse
6:30p.m.: ND-SMC Right to Life Dinner, topic:Lounge, free and open to public 24 First, second
"Respect for Life and Respect for the Law; Are or third2:30-4 p.m.: Bread sale, "Bread, Not Bombs," They the Same?'', speaker: Prof. Donald 26 Elian works by Women United fur Justice and Peace, War Kmiec;, ND, tickets on sale at the Dining Halls, 29 CapacitiesMemorial, open to public 

$1 0 general admission, $8 for students with 32 Unintended3:30-5:00 p.m.: Computer Minicourses, 
meal plan, Stepan Center gap

MacWrite, room I 18 Computing Center, Limit 33 Artist Claude 
7:30 & 10 p.m.: Movie, "The Color Purple",12, MAIL/BITNET, room 23 Computing Center, 34 Gangland
$1.50, sponsored by SMC student govern­

limit 10, to register call Better 239-5604, free killing
ment, Carroll Auditorium , Saint Mary's 
36 Water things 

and open to the public 
40 Lyric poem 5:15 p.m.:' Mass, Vigil Mass for Feast of St. SUNDAY 9-10 a.m.: JE Subseminar organiza­

41 Buenos-

Francis, Sacred Heart Church tional Meetings, PARABLES: romm 230 Center 
42 On the briny 7 p.m.: Wednesday Night Film Series, "Music for Continuing Education, John Lown, AP­43 Dabble in Man", 1962, color, 151 minutes, Morton Da HORISMS: 234 Center for Continuing Educa­45 Thin layer Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: Costa, USA, O'Shaughnessy Hall Loft tion, John Kloppenborg, DIALOGUES AND 
47 Membership 10 Ascended fees 11 Flue dirt 7, 9 & II p.m.: Movie, "Beverly Hills Cop", STORIES: room 250 Center for continuing 

cAs •• c E As 'IpRAM

48 Ireland 12 Prong A -r T A A R M E D L E V Isponsored by SAB, $1.50, Engineering Education, Jim Butts and Dennis Smith, 49 Fossil resin 13 Besides 
SEEM t!J-jt-ArJ.._M ANON

Auditorium GOSPEL OF JOHN: room 254 Center for Con­52 Slept like -18 Salver E N T I R E S L 0 T T I N G 7:30 & 10 p.m.: Movie, "The Color Purple", tinuing Educatio, Alan Culpepper SESSION 53 Filled pastry 19 Keep one's-E E_lR S N
1-L 
-E IT-

sponsored by SMC student govt., $1.50, Car­FOR ASSOCIATES: Lane McGaughy, Robert 56 Wild things the grindstone 
vI CITjRII A.T E EIT HE

60 QED word 23 Sharkrol Auditorium, Saint Mary's College Funk A R E_lO S C R 0 D.H E X 61 "The World 24 Music groups 
7:30 p.m.: Lecture, Theme: Art in America: 10:30a.m.-12:30 p.m.: Subseminar meetings 
s I NlN ME Tall M Iof-Wong" 25 Fish sauceValues in the Marketplace, topic: "Values for continue and session for associates continues E S T__. C A R 0 L 0 R A L62 Upon 26 St. -'s fire an American Culture", speaker: Don Bush 12:30 p.m.: JE New Tesstament Apocrypha S H O_lR rrffi'R E H A N I D L E

63 Dried up 27 Bird feed ,Design Historian, Dept. of ARt, Arizona State Board Meeting. council room, Morris Inn 64 Concerning 28 Mass. port 
N I D s u PT-University, Annenberg Auditorium 65 Contradict 29 Photography
I :30 p.m.: Meeting. Black Cultural Arts F.es­
T U N G ~,1 .£..1!"',!!.1 R I D E 
A L A I 0 L E 0 S E D I T8 p.m.: Lecture, topic: "Linkers, Diggers and liquid

tival, Pasquerilla West chapel DOWN 30 "-were the T A R N B E A N 0 A L M A Glossers in Social History", speaker: "Prof. 

2-3:30 p.m.: Jesus Seminar, Center for Con­1 Whip days..." A N K A A S T D N L E S TCharles Tilly, Distinguished Professor of His­

tinuing Education, Auditorium, Session for 2 Yearn 31 Yes -1 tory and Sociology, sponsored by Exxon Dis­10/3186
Associates (optional), Lane McGaughy, Rober 3 Helen's home 33 Horses tinguished Visiting Scholar Series, College of 
Funk 4 Possessive 35 Despot Arts and Letters, and the Department of His­5 Valuables 37 Wild condition
4-5 p.m.: Jesus Seminar, Session for As­

tory, 122 Hayes-Healy 6 Macbeth,­38 Location 48 Mischievous 54 Press
sociates continues, Center for continuing of Glamis 39 Highway 49 Time periods 55 Catch sight ofSATURDAY 9-10 a.m.: First Saturday Holy Education 7 Delicate division 50 Simple 57 Quick -winkHour of Reparation, Blessed Sacrament ex­4 p.m.: Department of Music Concert. Laura color 44 "-Fideles" 51 Kodiak 58 Conventposed, Corby Hall Chapel, all welcome 

Klugherz, Chamber Music Recital, Annenberg 8 Conjunction 45 Bluish purple 52 Timber tool resident 9 a.m. & 2 p.m.: Men's Tennis, Irish Fall In-
Auditorium 9 Vintage car 46 Therefore 53 Baseball Rose 59 Tight roll 

••••••••••••••••••••••••; SAB Presents: 
n Vereen in PIPPIN ~ EDDIE MURPHY IN 
Friday, October 10, 1986 at 8:00pm Morris Civic Auditorium 

t131:\11::1~~, 1-ll_l.l....c; 
Reduced price: ~ Fnday Oct. 3rd Ticket and Free transportation ~ Saturday Oct 4 $14.00 -« 7:00,9:00, 11:00 
tteketats.A.I.offlee2ndfloorLaFortunebetweenlam-•:3opml( 

Engineering Auditoriu 
today and Monday or call239-7757 or 283-21.e6 ~ 

••••••••••••••••••••••••.., ...__________$1.50__.... 
AfPIIRENnY, 
YOI/f( Cl!tffOCW f?EFM.5 7V lfPKOPPfL WEAK/.IV& 
Wcm£N'S 
*"· 
UNfltf?W61lf?. 

Beernuts 
if i PINAPPLE PIZZA FOR '"~ ''HAMLET' 1 
~­

Campus 

Suddenly, the living room was flooded with light and the angry sounds of an engine being revved. And everyone knew -the cat was back. 
The-Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Plaster support 
W& WOf/l./JNI 
Wllfff 70 !/f5€T 
MK. KOPPEL. !Nrrl 
II L.IIW.5!/!T WOI/f..P WE f FOf?K IT OV£1?. 
.W.'/ WOULD YOU LIK£ '/ i THAT CUT INTO SIX OR [I&HT SLICE') ? 
I 
Mark Williams 
BETTER MAKE IT ' 5/X-I DON'T THINK I COULD EAT EIGHT! 
\ 
-~---~----~------­
== 
Friday, October 3, 1986, -page 12
S~orts 

Cross country Women's team home for Invite battles Detroit 
By KELLY TOWNSEND By THERESA KELLY 
Sports Writer Sports Writer 
Today, the Notre Dame men's cross country To run for fun and exercise is a lot of work. 
team will play host to the Notre Dame Invita­Running at the Division I varsity level requires 
tional. The race, one of the oldest and largest dedication and commitment. Kathleen Lehman 
in America, figures to be a real challenge for has proven her commitment to the Notre Dame 
the young Irish team. women's cross country team. 
One of the Notre Dame runners ready to meet Lehman, ajunior from Akron, Oh., and class­
this challenge, though, is freshman Mike mate Julia Merkel lead the Irish runners by 
O'Connor. example. Although she was battling illness 
O'Connor already has shown his collegiate early in the season, Lehman still mC;Jnaged to 
running skill by placing fourth overall in last improve her times over last year's at the Hil­
week's National Catholic Invitational. His time lsdale lnvititational and the National Catholic 
of 24:40 was exceptionally good given the wet Cross Country Championships. 
course and the inclement weather. "'My best race was the team's time trial this 
Despite the youth of the team, O'Connor feels year," Lehman says. "'But the whole team is 
that it should concentrate on the present and improving over past times." 
not the future. In its first varsity season, the Irish team has 
"We have the talent to race well against greatly improved over the club status teams of 
anyone," O'Connor said. "The ability of the the past. 
guys on the team is very close. Once we get it "'We were dedicated as a club team," says 
together, we can win. With the talent we have Lehman. "'People were there because they 
we should talk about now and make our impact wanted to run." 
now." The new status has cultivated that dedication. 
In high school, O'Connor made a definite This year's team endures more difficult 
impact in the 2000-meters with a time of 5:25, workouts under Coach Dan Ryan. Practices 
tying an American record, and he had a per­were at 6: 15 a.m. and .3:.30 p.m. early in the 
sonal best of 4:08 in the mile. With perfor­season. The team usually runs six to len miles 
mances like last week's and his hard working per day in vaFious warm-ups, long runs, and 
attitude, O'Connor's presence will add greatly quarter-mile sprints. 
to the team. Lehman began running cross country during 
"Mike is a tremendous worker," said Irish herjunior year at Lady of the Elms High School 
coach Joe Plane. "With Dan Garrett, Rick Mul­in Akron. She was her team's MVP twice and 
vey, and Ron Markezich to push him, was also active in track and gymnastics. A year­
(O'Connor) can be one of the best. He's more round athlete at'Notre'\ Dame, Lehman runs 
concerned with the team's performance than both indoor and outdoor track in addition to 
his own." cross country. 
see INVITE, page 10 .see LEHMAN, page 8 
CFA was spurred on by efforts of Joyce and Notre Dame 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN "'(Joyce's) dream has always been for col­strictly as it did, the NCAA was in violation two of us would not have instigated it." 
Sports Editor lege football to be as big as it is now but of anti-trust laws. The result was that col­The CFA, though, has proven to be a 
leges were allowed to make their own useful institution not only for Notre 
(Editor's note: Today The Observer deals with the networks. The CFA went Dame, but for the rest of the college­completes its series on the College Foot­The one way, and the Big Ten and Pac I 0 football world as well. Such topics as ball Association with a look at its impact went another. Proposition 48 were originally discussed on the colleges.) CFA The problem -Notre Dame was one of by the CFA before the NCAA adopted the 
the few members of the CFA that played measures. 
Of the 63 schools comprising the Col­a number of Big Ten and Pac I 0 schools. "'At a CFA meeting. you have the lege Football Association, none had as The suit dragged on until 1984 when a coaches, faculty reps, athletic directors much impact in the organization's forma­compromise was reached, giving the and commissioners of all those schools," 
tion as Notre Dame. And the guiding force home team the television rights when a says Corrigan. "'They come in and discuss in Notre Dame's involvement was the But the formation of the CFA was not CFA team played a member of the Big issues of recruiting financial aid, matters chairman of the faculty board in charge harmonious. The presidents of the Big Ten or PAC I 0. . of integrity and sanctions to try to find 
of Athletics, Father Edmund Joyce. Ten and Pac I 0 conferences would not But in retrospect,-Corrigan is not so better ways to (handle those issues). It's 
"'Father Joyce felt. as a lot of other allow their schools to join the fledgling sure the suit was good for college foot­a very heartening thing to attend. To go people did, that the people who were organization. In addition, a rift was ball. into the football-coaches meeting and lis­commited to major football programs created between the NCAA and members "'If it were left to Fr. Joyce and me, we ten to those people talk about how the could have a place where they could go of the CFA, and Notre Dame was caught would not have gone through with the game can be better presented not only and discuss everything about college in the middle. lawsuit." Corrigan said. "'Neither one of on the field, but how we can do a better 
football, the good and the bad," says In 1981, a lawsuit was instigated us felt that the suit was really all that wise. job academically and every other way. Notre Dame Athletic Director Gene Cor­against the NCAA. The suit charged that. We were a little bit upset with the NCAA rigan, himself a major force in the CFA. by controlling television appearances as as everybody gets from time to time. The see CFA, page 8 
Women's tennis keeps improving, heads north to play Michigan State 
By SHEILA HOROX tends to promote individual play. and Gelfman is very pleased with Sports Writer "'We've got to think as a team their progress. at Michigan State," said Gelfman. The doubles pairs are playing 
What makes the members of "'Every match is for the team and together for the first time, and the Notre Dame women's tennis we need a total team effort this with each succeeding match they team better players each time weekend." gain experience and confidence. they step onto the courts? Last year the Irish toppled Mic­"'Playing doubles js difficult be­
The answer, according to Irish higan State, 6-.3, and Gelfman cause you have to learn the head coach Michele Gelfman is feels that memorory will serve as playing style of your partner and competitiveness, heart, and in­a distinct mental advantage for then be able to acljust to it," said tegrity. The team is committed her team. Top to bottom the Irish Notre Dame assistant coach to achieving one goal, improving have a stronger team than the Steve Simone. "'The more each week. In that respect. the Spartans, and Gelfman hopes matches our doubles teams play, women's tennis team has not the team's depth will tip the the better they're going to be. suffered one setback. scales in favor of the Irish in a Right now they're just starting to 
Tomorrow, the Irish travel to match that could go either way. gel as doubles teams." Michigan State for their first non­In a tight match, the outcome Because of the Michigan State tournament match in· three might rest with the play of the home football game, the teams weeks. The mental preparation doubles teams. The Notre Dame will play at an indoor tennis takes on a different perspective pairs of Michelle Dasso and Step­facility. Since weather conditions because each match, six singles hanie Tolstedt, Natalie lilig and therefore will not affect match and three doubles, represents a Alice Lohrer, and Tammy play, Gelfman is confident her point in the team total. Tourna­Schmidt and Julie Sullivan have team's determination will be the ment play, on the other hand, worked extremely hard this year, deciding factor. 








