---. 
---~--------~----­
Bicycle touring -page 6 
VOL. XXI, NO. 39 TUESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1986 the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Gorbachev charges 'misrepresentation' in summit account 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev accused the White House yesterday of "gross misrepresentation" in its accounts of the Reykjavik summit, but he said the super-· powers could still work out their problems. 
A member of the Soviet sum­mit delegation, meanwhile, reiterated Soviet claims that President Reagan had agreed in principle to a proposal to eliminate all Soviet and U.S. nuclear weapons in 10 years. 
The Reagan administration has disputed the claim. White House spokesman Larry Speakes said yesterday in Washington that Reagan dis­cussed abolition of all nuclear arms during the summit but never proposed more than the elimination of all ballistic mis­siles in 10 years. 
Gorbachev's statement was the latest in a series of efforts to counter U.S. accounts of what the superpowers tenta­tively agreed to before they reached a stalemate at the summit over the U.S. Strategic Defense Initiative, or "Star Wars." 
Gorbachev said the proposals included an initial 50 percent cut in strategic nuclear weapons, elimination of all medium-range missiles in Europe, a ban on the testing of space weapons and a nuclear test ban. 
Ex-airman arrested in espionage attempt 
The Observer I Joe Vitacco
World Series study 
Sophomores (front row, left to right) Kevin and Jeff Pearson in a St. Edward's Hall room. Bryan and Pat Dunne enjoy the seventh game The students watched the New York Mets beat of the World Series along with freshmen (back the Boston Red Sox by a score of 8-5. row, left to right) Jason Cegielski, Ted Healy 

Sociologist discusses Nicaraguan autonomy 
By JIM RILEY Assistant News Editor 
Greater self-rule for parts of Nicaragua and the current po­litical strength of those groups in power were discussed by Carlos Vilas, speaking Monday night in the Memorial Library Auditorium. 
Vilas, an Argentine sociologist who has lived in Nicaragua since 1980, outlinet;i the problems the peoples of the Atlantic coast region of Nicaragua as the revolutionary (Sandinista) government has tried to install its system of rule in that region. 
At first, the government tried to force the coast people into 

.-.., the revolution, said Vilas. But now the government realizes that it has to adapt the revolu­tion to meet the needs of the various ethnic peoples of the coast, Vilas said. Vilas said the coast people have felt caught in the middle, not being Sandinistas but not being contras either. Their neutrality has been violated by both sides, said Vilas. 
The coast region " .. .is a very large part of the country with a very small population, but with large problems caused by ethnic diversity,'' said Vilas. 
The region is occupied by several ethnic groups, all of which are distinct from each other and not integrated into the rest of the country, accor­ding to Vilas. The region's iso­lation is partly due to geogra­phy and is complicated by the contras who attack transporta­tion as part of their struggle, said Vilas. 

Carlos Vilas 
The problem the government has faced is that revolutionary theories paid no attention to ethnicity in Latin America, Vilas said. 
There was a reduction of the coast communities to their eco­nomic status, said Vilas. There also was a cultural reduction of the various ethnic groups. These groups "were reduced to just the symbolic aspects of their ethnicity" such as their different languages and differ­ent phenotypes, according to Vilas. 
This reductionist approach was the main problem during the early years of the revolu­tion, the problem which kept the people of the coast from relating peacefully with the government. 
Many people from the coast were relocated by the govern­ment away from areas that would be the scenes of battles with the contras and into rigidly-structured towns, said Vilas. 
These relocations and the government's policies stifled the groups' cultures and caused dissatisfaction with the revolutionary government, ac­cording to Vilas . 
Recently, the revolutionary government has acknowledged its mistakes and have taken two major steps, Vilas said. First, they are setting free coast people who are caught fighting the government. Second, they have undertaken an autonomy project. 
"The government formed the National Autonomy Commission for broad discus­sion of autonomy," Vilas said. "This has been difficult since there is little history of self-
see SPEECH, page 3 

Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -A dis­gruntled former Air Force man was arrested yesterday and charged with trying to deliver secrets about an Air Force reconnaissance program to the Soviet Union, authorities said. 
Allen John Davies of San Jose, a naturalized American citizen who works for Ford Aerospace and Communica­tions Corp., was arrested by FBI agents in Palo Alto, south of San Francisco, said U.S. At­torney Joseph Russoniello. 
The charge is punishable by up to life in prison. 
On Sept. 22, Davies met with an undercover agent who posed as a representative of the So­viet consulate in San Francisco and offered information about the Air Force program, accor­ding to a sworn statement by an FBI agent filed in federal court. 
Davies provided "detailed verbal information" about the program as well as a "hand drawing depicting various aspects" of the program, ac­cording to the statement by Agent Roger Edstrom. 
He said much of the informa­tion Davies provided was clas­sified as secret, according to Air Force Maj. Boyd Lease, director of the reconnaissance program. 
Davies, 33, said he had worked on the reconnaissance program while in the Air Force in 1983 and 1984, the agent said. 

Grace Hall debates begin with topic of gays at ND 
By GREG LUCAS News Staff 
Official recognition of the group Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will be the first topic of discussion in Grace Hall's debate tournament tonight at 9 in the pit at Grace Hall. 
The tournament is a single elimination contest among teams of four from the ten floors of Grace Hall and will feature nine topical debates on nine different nights. 
Participants will practice a formal debate format which will be followed by questions and comments from the audience. 
Native Irishman Joe McKenna, assistant rector of Grace Hall, designed the tournament based on the popularity that public debate receives in Ireland. "The beauty of debate," said McKenna, "is that both sides are presented and the issue is left up to the audi­ence." 
All interested students are encouraged to come and lis­ten and contribute at the debates. "People who sit in their rooms and gripe about the system are now being given a forum," said McKenna. 
A member of the faculty who is knowledgeable on the 
see DEBATE, page 3 


-----~------------~ -­
The Observer Tuesday, October 28, 1986-page 2 


In Brief 
The University of Notre Dame Academic Council named its 1986-87 executive committee at its meeting October 15. Ex-officio members-are Provost Timothy O'Meara, Asso­ciate Provost Father Edward Malloy, and Chairman of the Faculty Senate Jean Pee. Elected to the executive committee were Francis Castellino, dean of the College of Science; Fernand Dutile, professor of law, Michael Et­zel, chairman and professor of the marketing department; Roger Schmitz, dean of the College of Engineering and Kathleen Mass Weigert, associate director for social anal­ysis at the Center for Social Concerns. Appointed by Uni­versity President Father Theodore Hesburgh were Mi­chael Loux, dean of the College of Arts and Letters; Father Thomas Blantz, chairman and associate professor of his­tory; and Douglas Wurth, Student Government academic commissioner. -The Observer ­

Of Interest 
Three lectures on "The 'Moral Nation': Humanitarianism and U.S. Foreign Policy in the 1980's" will be given from today to Thursday at 4:30p.m. in the Room 100 of the Center for Continuing Education. "Humanitarianism, Vulnerability, and Discretion" will be discussed today by Henry Shue, senior research associate at the University of Maryland's Center for Philosophy and Public Policy. Shue is a philospher who specializes in human rights issues. "Morality and Foreign Policy" will be focused on Wednesday by Brian Urquhart, a scholar in residence at the Ford Foundation. Until last February, Urquhart sen;ed for forty years as United Nations under secretary general for special political affairs. On Thursday, "Cooperation in Humanitarian Efforts: A Case Study" will be discussed by Lawrence Pezzullo, executive director of Catholic Relief Services. Before assuming his present position, Pezzullo had served as U.S. ambassador to Nicaragua and as U.S. ambassador to Uruguay. The lectures comprise the fall segment of the 1986-87 Ethics and Foreign Policy Lecture Series, sponsored annually by the Carnegie Council on Ethics and International Affairs and co-hosted this year by the Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies. -The Observer 
A graduate art student exhibit entitled "New Faces" will be featured in the Isis Gallery from today until No­vember 7. These recent works by the first-year graduate students of the department of art, art history, and design include sculpture, design, painting, ceramics, drawing, and photography. Students participating in the exhibit are Gary Ciadella, Susan Clements, Tracy Dippo, Bridgette Fischer, Troy Gerth, Frances Granau, John Gustafson, Rick Hintze, Jeanne Krempetz, Stella Moore, and Thelma Rohrer. An opening reception will be held tonight from 7 to 9 in the gallery. The Isis Gallery, open from 8:30a.m. to 5 p.m. weekdays, is located on the third floor of Riley Hall of Art ana Design. The exhibit is sponsored by both Notre Dame's art department and the Student Activities Board.-The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and In Briefs can be submitted to the Day Editor at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center untill p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interests announce free campus-wide events of general interest. The Observer reserves the right to edit all Of Interests. -The Observer 

Weather 
Take out your tomahawks to help r-----.. ---p celebrate what will probably be one of the last days of Indian summer today. !~ ,,,1
t~:·o''~J

Sunny skies with highs in the upper 60s are expected, although the sky will turn 
I . . !

partly cloudly with lows in the mid 40s tonight. Tomorrow will be partly sunny with highs in the low 60s. -Associated Press 

Design Editor ......... Chris Bowler Accent Copy Editor . .. Gertie Wimmer Design Assistant ... Mike 'Moj' Mojica Accent Layout .......... Carey Gels Typesetter . ....... Becky Gunderman Typists ............... Colleen Foy News Editor ..... _.. Mary Heilmann ND Day Editor ...... Alison Pivonka Copy Editor: .......... Jane Kravcik SMC Day Editor . . Theresa Harrington Sports Copy Editor . ...... Pete Gegen AdDesign .......... Sharon Emmite Viewpoint Copy Editor Gertie Wimmer Photographer ...... -.... Joe Vitacco Viewpoint Layout . ..... Heidi Traxler 
Tbe Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tbe Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Sharing of cultures more valuable 


than money exchange in Jamaica 
Irie. 

Don shifted the little white cigarette between his lips as if it were a cigar. The knife in his Tripphands dug deeper into the piece of lignum vitae he was carving. Baltz 
Irie. Yah, mahn. 

News Editor 
Don stood in the hot midday sun, carving an eagle out of the iron-like wood that comes from the national tree of Jamaica. Behind him was his store, a one-room hut over a dirt floor. In­side, thatch bags and boxes hung over shelves where mahogany birds and turtles sat. 
Easy, mahn, easy. 

Don's specialty was jewelry. Items cut from mother of pearl and sea shells lay on a towel draped over a table in the center of his store. Don peeled back a sheet covering the finest of his wares: earrings and bracelets shaped from rare black coral. Jamaican divers plunge deep below the surface of the Carribean to recover this precious material. 
Easy, shorty, whatta gain' ahn? 
Don wanted to sell me some of his goods. I 
... 

was interested in buying some jewelry for a close friend. I wanted something from Jamaica. 
at the top of a hill. We met her younger relative Don wanted my some of my cash. 
Ricky, Whose skill at dominoes angered the
Don' want the mother of pearl? Lis'n, I give 
older players. We met Asien and his very small 
you ah package deal. No problem. 
friend Greg, who almost dropped off a porchDon and his friends came down from Barrett when he fell asleep sitting up. 
Town everyday to peddle their wares from their 
Friends are more important than pocket
shacks at the edge of the beach: Barry, Ryan, 
money.
Isha. We talked. 

We played and partied with the Jamaicans in
Jamaica has no problems, no problems. 
their own environment. They were pleased toBarry told me of his great-great­show us their way of life beyond the salesmen's 
grandmother, a slave on the plantation owned in the 18th century by the White Witch of Rose shanties by the sea. It was a memory more 
precious than the rich coral we had bought with Hall. The Great House of Rose Hall sits alone American dollars. We had learned the meaning on the land once ruled by cruel Annie Palmer. 
of the Jamaican word Irie, which means good,Annie, who supposedly murdered all three of fine, alright. 
her husbands, probably would fly into a 
We are two skin colors, you and I, black and 
demonic rage if she knew that a golf course 
white. But you cut below the skin, it is the same
was now scratched into her estate. 
You should come into Barrett Town tonight, blood. We have to work together. 
On the runway Sunday, with Jamaica right
mahn. Is no problem! 

Sandra, Sharlene, Gwen: they taught us outside the plane window, I was thinking ahead reggae dancing and Jamaican dominoes and to Chicago. I reflected on the rushed, worried checkers. Their names captured the cultural pace I was returning to at Notre Dame. For­
mix of their country: Lloyd Barry was English, gotten for the moment was the slow, simple life Isha sounded strictly African. Sharlene wanted of the Jamaicans. Somewhere on a beach me to learn the Jamaican way of spelling the _beyond the airport Don and his friends were 
shaping coral, carving mahogany, and braiding names of American cities. 
Chicken in a car, the car can go-and that's hair for the next wave of visitors. I wondered 
if others would experience the Irie life of the
the way we spell Chicago. 
That night in Barrett Town was the most en­natives as I had for a night. 
riching experience of my week in Jamaica. I thought of Don as he carved another figure, Sandra, the one who braided everyone's hair, white cigarette between his lips. 
No problem, mahn. Easy, easy.
took me and some friends to her cousin's bar 
THE DATAVUE 25 PORTABLE COMPUTER SYSTEM WILL LIGHTEN YOUR lOAD FOR ONLY $899. 
The new Datavue 25 portable computer makes going back to school easier than ever. Because now the powerful Datavue 25 is on sale to students for over 50% off*. Just $899 buys you a complete 14lb., ffiM~ co_mpatible system with 768K, a full sized 80 x 25 line display, built~in 51A"' floppy disk drive, serial, RGB, color composite and printer port. Datavue 25 comes ready to run packages like 1~2~ 3, WordStar, MultiMate, dBASE II and ill, Flight Simulator, and many others. 

All this makes Datavue 25 a cinch for report writing, research organi~ zation, programming practice ... and relaxing after a tough day ofcfass. Lighten your load this fall. Pick up Datavue25 before school be~ gins and save a bundle. 
Find out more about this pow~ erful, affordable portable com~ puter today. For a han~ on Datavue demostra~ tion, call our Datavue representative, Larry Crews in Berrien Springs, The powerful, affordable portable.

MI, (616) 471~ 1949 
*Offer i!QOd to members ofth. univ=ity community onlv. 

The Observer Tuesday, October 28, 1986 · · 
Possible laundry plans discussed by Senate 
War or Peace? 

Members of Notre Dame's Reserve Officers' Training Corps participate in the dedication of the Clarke Memorial Fountain on Oct. 17 (above) as seniors (at left from left to right) Mike O'Malley, Nylce Prada and Margaret Pfeil silently protest. The protestors, members of the groups Pax Christi and Women United for Justice and Peace, stood in a prayerful silence hold­ing banners as the dedica­tion ceremony of the recently completed fountain occurred. Approximately 150 members of each of the three University ROTC units participated in the dedica­tion which included a liturgy. 

years of scholarship assistance received. 
As an Armed Forces physician you'll receive officer's pay and benefits, and enjoy the advantages of working regular hours. You'll also see a diversity of patients and have opportunities to use sophisticated medical technology. 
But most important, while you're in medical school we'll help pay the bills. For more information, send in this coupon. There is no obligation. 


r :::~~;~:~-:.==~~ ,
Mail this coupon to: Armed Forces Scholarships, PO. Box 2865 Huntington Station, NY 11746-2102 9009 
Check up to three: 0 ARMY 0 NAVY 0 AIR FORCE
I I
Please pnnt an tnformabon clearly and completely 

I Name__-;;:::;--------...:;:;;:;;;:;;:;;-----,..-;;;,.:-----OMale OFemale 
I

First Mldcltelntllal ...... 
Address ______________Apt. # 
City--;:::::;:=~~=;::::::;-;::::;:=:;::::::;:=,State Zip I I I I I I II Phone ITIJ ITIJ 1 1 Soc Sec No. ITIJ rn 
1 1 1 1 1 

{;OIIIoge_"_·_·Code___·umbe_·_________~~ rn m rn II Grad:tion mOly rn 
Field of Study Date Mo Yea< 
L 
The 1nformal10n you voluntarily provL~e will be used tor recruiting purposes only. The more complete IllS the better we Jcan respond to your request {Authonty 10 USC 503 and EO 9397) 
By DAVID T. LEE 
News Staff 
The Student Senate dis­cussed possibilities for differ­ent laundry plans for men in a meeting last night. 
"If you know you do not use $50 every semester (in laundry), why be forced to use it up?" asked Sophomore Class President Pat Cooke. 
Cooke noted that there are different meal plans, saying a similar system might be feasible for male laundry ser­vice as well. He suggested pos­sible $20 and $30 plans in addi­tion to the present mandatory fee of $50 per semester. 
Senator Brian Holst sugges­ted a completely optional laundry service for men. "What I think is a contradiction is financial aid. (The adminis­tration) says they are not going to take another person's money to pay for financial aid ... But people who do not use the laundry service are subsidizing other people's services." 
Holst also proposed laundry facilities in male dorms, al­though realizing the dorms "have not supplied them be­cause the buildings are not equipped." 
The Senate also discussed a possible stand on divestment of the University's holdings in companies in South Mrica. 
According to Senator Mike Jaeger, however, most students are "apathetic." 
"Most students said they thought the administration had a good grip of what was going on," said Jaeger. 
Senator John Gardiner said the Senate should "force the issue" upon the administration and the student body, in part because many students have not educated themselves on the South African situation. 
In other matters, Off­Campus Commissioner Tracey Thoman said RASTA's appeal to remain as a University or­ganization has failed. 
Citing a letter from Vice­President for Student Mfairs Father David Tyson, Thoman said, "They are banned this · year, with a possibility they can exist with probationary status next year." RASTA must appeal again next year if they wish to become a legal group on campus. 
Student Body President Mike Switek said the United Way campaign is slated to begin on November 3. He added "the crayons will be back in force," in a reference to their presiden­tial campaign last year in which posters were drawn using crayons. 
The Senate also reported plans to enlarge the bus stop at the main circle, because the University is the number two tourist attraction in Indiana. 


Debate 
continuedfrom page 1 
debated topic will judge each debate. The decision rendered is not based on the personal views of the judge. "It's not whether the judge agrees, it's who presents the more cohesive argument," McKenna said. 
Jack Lee, a senior partici­pant in the tournament, said, "I have never been involved in debate but it seemed like it would be an enjoyable thing to try. You always need a few people to get the ball rolling," said Lee. 
The sides of the debate are chosen randomly. In other words, a participant may be debating against his personal beliefs. "It is a growing expe­rience to present an argument from a pomt of view other than your own," said McKenna. "It opens your mind to see that there is another side," McKenna said. 
All members of the winning floor in Grace Hall who attend at least one debate will be taken out to dinner in the Fac­ulty Dining Room of South Dining Hall. McKenna said, "To encourage people to come we are having a free drawing at each debate for food vouch­ers at Sarge's food service." 

Speech 
continuedfrom page 1 
government in Latin America," he added. 
The autonomy program has taken different approaches since each of the ethnic groups of the coast is so different, said Vilas. Some groups have desired the right to speak their native language when dealing with government business. 
Others have emphasized re­unification of families dis­rupted by relocation or have desired economic improve­ment. 
The government has recently taken two major actions toward autonomy, said Vilas. They have officially recognized the Nicarauguan people as a multi-cultural one, and have of­ficially declared the languages of the various ethnic groups to be official languages of Nicaragua. 
NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY CENTER FOR NURSING announces OPEN HOUSE 
Saturday, November 1, 1986 10:00 am • 2:00 pm American Bar Center 750 N. Lake Shore Drive Suite 601 Chicago, Illinois 
"Nursing As A Career" 


The Observer 
Tuesday, October 28, 1986 -page 4 
Pope, religious leaders pledge to work for world peace 
Associated Press dhist god-king of Tibet, called however, and minor violations 
the historic gathering in Assisi, were reported elsewhere. 
ASSISI, Italy-Bearing olive hill-town birthplace of St. In at least a dozen other con­branches and offering prayers, Francis, a recognition of the flicts, meanwhile, from the Pope John Paul II and other "indispensable spiritual di­Iran-Iraq border to Northern leaders of great world mension" in efforts to end war. Ireland, wars dragged on heed­religions, from Moslems and And the efforts had an imme­less of the papal plea. Jews to fire-worshipping diate, if temporary, impact in The 160 participants at the Zoroastrians, solemnly far corners of a war-torn globe. prayer meeting represented 32 pledged yesterday to work for Warring parties in a dozen denominations and groups peace. countries, including from Christendom as well as 
The pope, summing up the Nicaragua, El Salvador and American Indians, African 
resolve of his religious col­Cambodia, acceded to the animists, Japanese Shintoists, leagues, urged world leaders to pope's appeal that combatants Buddhists, Hindus, Sikhs, Jains fashion "strategies of peace lay down their arms for 24 and Bahais. with courage and vision." hours yesterday. The cease­The denominations' ad­
The Dalai Lama, exiled Bud-fire broke down in Lebanon, herents number 3.5 billion 
SENIORS: 


with HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES IN CHILE A TWO-YEAR POST-GRADUATE COMMITMENT 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT: MARY ANN ROEMER JANE PITZ CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS HCA OFFICE-MOREAU 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: NOV. 7 
TODAY AT NOTRE DAME STADIUM 
Special Olympics needs you and lOOOofyour friends 
WHO? Anybody who wants to help Special Olympics WHAT? To create the Special Olympics' logo with cards for a TV commercial WHEN? 
Today--Tuesday, October 28th at 3:30pmWHERE? 
Notre Dame Stadium--enter through North Gates WHY? Because Special Olympics needs money and volunteers and this will get them. 
PLUS, you can do it as a personal favor to me, Dave Schmit n 
r 
\[)~~~~
f 
INTERNATIONAL 
1 . 9 . 8 . 7 
SUMMER 
~-~ 
~ 
iili
.. 

SPECIAL OLYMPICS 
G A M E S® 


people, or 70 percent of the world's population. 
In a moving climax to the day's events, the participants, resplendent in attire of a dozen colors, gathered on the steps of the Basilica of St. Francis and raised olive branches in a com­mitment "to make peace a central aim of our prayer and action." 
In his final adress, the pope warned that the choice facing humanity is "true peace or cat­astrophic war." 
"Either we learn to walk to­gether in peace and harmony, 
Soft 

Contact~ 
Lenses $19.86 


Daily or Extended Wear 
Now you can treat yourself to Call for an appointment today. 
the contact lenses you have You'll see better for less. Dr. always wanted at a price anyone Tavel's Premium Optical has can afford! For a limited time been caring for eyes for over 40 Dr. David Tavel has reduced the years with 32 locations in price of Softmate daily or Indiana. Shouldn't you trust the extended wear contact lenses to care of your family's eyes to an unheard of price of Indiana's largest, oldest and $19.8 6. * most trusted name i:1 eyecare? 
OFFER EXPIRES OCTOBER 31, 1986 
•Exam is rr.quire.J at the time of puxchasc and is not include.J in the sale price. Offer is invalid on prior orders and may not be combine.J with any other discount. 
Providers for all Insurance programs. 
"At Dr. David Tavel's Premium Optical, we've been servinll Indiana's evecare needs for over 40 vears. We carrv on a tradition of excellence tr.at is unsurpassed. And that's a promise from the doctor." 
a~
-


on ___1(}_1'30/8~-­
or we drift apart and ruin our­selves and others," he said. 
The Dalai Lama told reporters, "The significance of today's gathering must be found in its symbolism. We stressed the importance of prayer and reflection and the indispensable spiritual dimen­sion in building peace." 
But a Moslem from the Ivory Coast, Ahmed Tidjani, cau­tioned that many of the parti­cipants, unlike the pope, lacked the power to translate "the spirit and meaning of Assisi" 
into concrete action. 

View~_o_in_t________
Tue-sday_,o_ctob-er 2_8, 19-86--pag-e5 
P.O.BoxQ 
Director of institute 
responds to proposal 
Dear Editor: 
In your issue of Thursday, Oct. 16, you carried a letter to the editor written by my friend and colleague, Jay Dolan, in which he expressed his indignation about the new memorial on the Notre Dame campus. 
While I think that he is, of course, entitled to his own opinion about the value and significance of the memorial, it doesn't particularly strengthen his argument to indulge in such flights of hyperbole as talking about renaming the Institute for International Peace Studies the War Institute. 
Our new Institute is dedicated un­equivocally to the study of the relation­ships between peace, justice and human rights and it doesn't help anyone very much to suggest that there is anything hypocritical in the Univer­sity's sponsorship of our programs. 
John J. Gilligan Acting Director, Institute for Interna­tional Peace Studies 
Peace organizers miss point of new memorial Dear Editor: 
We wish to respond and voice our opinion on the recent article entitled, "Memorial's dedication draws fire," which appeared in the Oct. 17 edition of The Observer. We feel that Pax Christi, an international Catholic peace organization, and their spokesman, Joe Ross, do not understand the purpose and meaning behind the Clarke Memorial Fountain and the presence of the military and the ROTC units at the memorial's dedication. 
The Clarke Memorial Fountain was built in remembrance of the ser­vicemen who bravely gave their lives in the role of protecting our nation so that the likes of Joe Ross and others could have the freedom to object to the presence of the armed forces of which these servicemen were a part. Without the actions of these brave men, Joe Ross would today be speaking Russian, drinking vodka, and casting his all im­portant vote for Gorbachev. 
Ifthe memorial is in honor of military servicemen, we see nothing wrong with the presence of military personnel and the A-7 jet aircraft "fly-over" sched­uled for the Mass and ceremonies. Yet Ross says, "To work for peace does not mean celebrating Mass in the midst of warplanes." Hey, tell that to the chaplain on the carrier. 
B. Patrick Costello, Jr. 
David Glenister Naval ROTC Midshipmen 

Viewpoint Department 
P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 


Making Urban Plunge changes outlook on life 
In January of 1982, during Christmas Summer Service Project, which would break of my junior year at Notre Dame, allow me to live and work in inner-city I made an Urban Plunge. Now, almost Washington,D.C. for eight weeks five years later, I have the job of coor­during the coming summer. Shortly dinating the Urban Plunge program. after spring break, I made the decision The story of how I went from partici­to change my major, to spend my senior pant to coordinator might shed some year studying theology in preparation light on the impact the Urban Plunge for a career in lay ministry. About a can have on a student's life. year later, shortly before graduation, I got a job as Coordinator of Youth Min­istry for a parish in Virginia Beach,Dan Keusal Virginia, where I worked until this past August, when I returned to Notre Dame to take my job at the Center for Social 
urban plunge 
Concerns. 
Along with eight other NDSMC stu­I still have unanswered questions. I dents, I made my plunge in Washing­still have the desire to see more, to do ton,D.C. about 45 minutes from where more. I am still looking for ways to I had grown up in the Maryland sub­open my life to the poor, ministering to urbs. Guided by a priest named Father them in the way Henri J.M. Nouwen John Harfmann who lived and worked describes in his book, "Gracias": among the poor, we saw parts of the nation's capital that are not included "As ministers, we share with other in any of the tours most visitors take human beings--especially those who part in: the D.C. City Jail, the House of have elaborate education and training­Ruth Shelter for homeless and battered -the desire to be in control, to tell others women, the Columbia Road Health what to do and how to think. But if we Clinic. want to follow Christ and 'have his 
mind,' we are called to empty ourselves 
We spent one morning running the of these privileges and become ser­Zacchaeus Soup Kitchen, the Plunge vants of the people." activity I remember most vividly. Some of the people who ate there that Now you know something about the morning kept to themselves, not talking impact the Urban Plunge has made in to anyone. Others were friendly and my life (so far). What impact could it talkative, glad to have an audience for have on yours? I invite you to find out. their stories and jokes. All of them were I invite you to make an Urban Plunge, hungry. That night, when the nine of us to spend two days of your Christmas gathered to discuss the day's experi­break in an urban area near you. Ex­ences, my friend Mike pulled from his perience some of the poverty, injustice wallet a few wrinkled, stuck-together and apathy of the inner-city, but also papers. "An old woman at the soup meet some dedicated people who are kitchen gave these to me today," he working to improve situations. said. "She wa~ted to do something to thank me for helping her. They are As I write this, over 170 people have worthless, really, but they were her already signed up for this year's Urban only possessions. She treasured them. Plunge. In order to give even more So will I." people the opportunity to be a part of 
it, the deadline for application is being 
The Urban Plunge was an eye­extended until October 31st. opening experience for me, but it I invite you to be part of this year's wasn't enough. When I returned to Plunge. You might discover some campus for the spring semester, I still things you cannot learn in a classroom. had unanswered questions, and an un­And who knows...someday you might fulfilled desire to see more, to do more. even have my job. I had no idea at the time where those questions and that desire would lead Dan Keusal graduated from Notre me. 
Dame in 1983 with a B.A. in Theology. He is currently Coordinator of Justice Within a few weeks, I had applied for, and Peace Programs at the Center for 
and been granted, the chance to do a Social Concerns." 
Doones Garry Trudeau 

General Board 
Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief . .................. Joe Murphy Business Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann Managing Editor . ............... Kevin Becker Controller . ................. Alex VonderHaar 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Viewpoint Editor ................ Scott Bearby Production Manager ............. Chris Bowler 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer· Sports Editor . ............... Dennis Corrigan Photography Manager . ......... James Carroll sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the Accent Editor. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... Mary Jacoby Advertising Manager . ........ Anne M. Culligan policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately Saint Mary's Editor . ........... Margie Kersten Systems Manager ............. Shawn Sexton and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of News Editor ..................... Tripp Baltz Graphic Arts Manger .......... Mark Welmholt the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Editor . ........... :· .... Mark Pankowski OCN Manager . ............. Francis X. Malone their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1966 

Accent 
Tuesday, October 28, 1986 -page 6 
European 

PATTI MORRISON "The chateaux would serve as wheat is a memory that I won't features writer our rest stops from city to city," soon forget." said McGuire. 
Being wined and dined along The city ofTours was their first The feast began. Given a France's Loire River is something stop. The two were spending the private room complete with a that happens only in the movies, night with a French family known waitress, the two were wined and right? Wrong -just ask two stu­to Mcguire. The Sabat family -dined. "We were waited on hand dents from last year's Angers, owners of Tours' most exclusive and foot" said McGuire. France foreign study program. patisserie (bakery) and cele­A bottle of wine and a platter 
Ann-Marie Reilly and Matt brated caterers, were cousins to of pate' was the first course of McGuire, who were among the the French family McGuire lived the five course meal they 44 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's with in Angers. received. The students stuffed students on the '85 -'86 pro­The Sabats were extremely themselves with chicken, ham, gram, took a cycling trip along hospitable to the travellers and vegtables, salad, cheese, and the Loire River. welcomed them with open arms. dessert. Dessert, of course, con­
"When I first saw the film 'They were just fantastic," said sisted of Sabat's renowned pas­'Breaking Away' I immediately Reilly. "They left us keys for the teries. Reilly and McGuire could fell in love with cyCling," said house and pasteries in the mor­only marvel at the evening. Reilly. "While studying abroad I ning." They were very giving and "I imagined ourselves as had the opportunity to give cy­open people. French royality," said Reilly. "I cling a try." Saturday's destination was the was back in the 17th century with 
The students lived with French city ofBlois. Coincidentally, Mon­the queen's court, until I looked families spread all over Angers, sieur Sabat was catering a party down at my clothes." so they were a fair distance from in Blois the same night to which The hour and half feast was the University. Both Reilly and he invited McGuire and Reilly. followed by a light and sound McGuire had purchased bikes They graciously and eagerly ac­show which mapped out the his­earlier in the year as a means of cepted. tory of the castle. "This evening 
f transportation. They had taken a This however, wasn't going to was definitely the highlight of the 
I few smaller trips through France be any old banquet, for Chateau trip," said Reilly. 
l 
I -but nothing like this 140-mile, Blois was where the evenings fes­Unfortunately their trip had to three-day adventure on which tivities were being held. Chateau come to an end. They cycled they were about to embark. Blois, incidentally, was the home back to Angers and took in the "We had a long weekend in of Francois I and his bride Cath­breathtaking scenery of the Loire May, and I was tired of sitting on erine de Medici during the I 7th Valley -which consists mostly of 
trains," McGuire said. McGuire century. farmland and grape vineyards. 
and Reilly opted to go on a bike "The view from the Chateau McGuire arR:I Reilly's trip was 
tour through the Loire Valley to was magnificent," said Reilly. an experience they will never for­
photos cii Ann-Marie Reilly 

see chateaux, rather than "The flaming red, pink and or­get, which provided them with The french city of Tours provides a gorgeous backdrop for travelling to other countries ange sun setting over the memories that are more real these american student/tourists. during this break. neverendin!=l fields of golden than any movie could ever be. 
This Old House 
GERTIE WIMMER Company in Chicago. The house home of Father McGrath during features copy editor was built and furnished under his term as President of the col­Sister Madeleva's immediate su­lege, from 1968 through 1970. There's a pocket of civilization 
pervision. The House may now be used deep under the trees of Saint 
Riedinger House served for for overnight accommodations Mary's, a natural clearing in a 
many years as the Model House for official guests of the College, grove of evergreens • of the home economics depart­for example Regents, Alumnae ment, and as such it received Board Members and guest The cottage is named after quite a glowing critique in the speakers. The House may not be 
Saint Mary's trendsetter Adaline Holy Cross Courier, the maga­used for overnight accommoda­Crowley Riedinger. Riedinger, zine of Saint Mary's College, in tions for any individual's per­class of 1864, was the first February of 1939: sonal guests. 
graduate of Saint Mary's to send 
The House may also be used her daughter, Mary Adelaide, "It stands west of the ballroom for formal receptions for small there to graduate, which she did in Le Mans, and almost directly groups of alumnae, students, in 1889. north of Holy Cross Hall ... The in­faculty members and adminis­The House wasn't completed terior is designed on small scale tration -if and when the Club­
until 50 years after the gradua­in keeping with the youthful oc­house or Stapleton Lounge are tion date of Mary Adelaide, cupants, for the senior home either unavailable or inappropri­though, during the presidency of economics mqjors live in the ate. 
Sister Mary Madeleva. In her house, and manage it on a su­
book "My First Seventy Years," pervised budget. The hall is Space in the two-story house Sister Madeleva wrote how the floored with Metowee slate, is limited. Only 25 people would other children of Adaline practical and artistic. Opposite a be comfortable for cocktails, and Riedinger helped finance the tilt-top under a mirror are two only eight could be seated for construction of the house. lovely old colored Holbein prints. dinner. The House has only three In the powder room back of the bedrooms, two with double 
The House was designed in the stairway, Staffordshire paper, beds, so sleeping quarters are late '30s by two South Bend con­glazed chintz and ruffled net add limited to five people. tracting firms, Austin and a note of interest." Today the nearest neighbor to Shambleau and Thomas L. Because the home economics the house is the Saint Mary's Se­Hickey Co. Construction was department no longer exists at curity hut, although the two bear completed in 1939, and the Saint Mary's, the House is used about as much of a resemblance structure was blessed and dedi­now by alumnae of Saint Mary's to each other as the Notre Dame cated on June II of that year. according to the guidelines es­dome and the Le Mans tower. 
The living and dining rooms tablished October I, 1976 by Most Saint Mary's students, were done in Early American by former President John Duggan. however, know more about the The Observer/Margaret Mannion Marshall Field's, and the entire Before then, though, Security hut than they do about 
The little house In the big woods of Saint Mary's campus.
upper floor by the John M. Smyth Riedinger House served as the the 4 7 -year-old Riedinger House. 


Tuesday, October 28, 1986 -page 7 
The Observer 
Sports Briefs · 
The ND judo club will hold practise tomorrow. All mem­bers are encouraged to attend. -The Observer 
The ND water polo club will hold prac~ise tomo;row at 7 p.m. in Rolfs Aquatic Center. For more mformatwn con­tact Dave Patchin at 4502. -The Observer 
WVFI-AM 64 airs "Speaking of Sports" live tonight at 
10. The program features a catch-all debate and discussion on such topics as the World Series, the DH rule, and the NFL's use of the instant replay. Join Rudy Brandl, Fr~mk Mastro, and Sean Pieri in discussing these issues by calhng 239-6400. -The Observer 
The Rockne Memorial is offering the following safety courses: Red Cross lifesaving is offered Sundays noon to 3 p.m. in the classroom of Rolfs Aquatic Cennter. Cost is $10. First Aid session will be held tomorrow at 6 p.m. in room 218 Rockne. 
Anyone interested in CPR, Lifeguarding, or Advanced First Aid should attend a sign-up session on Thursday between 4:30 and 7:30 p.m. in room 218 Rockne. The Lifeguard course has prerequisites. 
For further information contact Bro. Louis Hurcik at 239-6321. The Observer 
Mets' fans rock Shea 
Associated Press League East championship on Sept. 17. 
NEW YORK -An ecstatic One fan made it to second crowd at Shea Stadium cele­base, but police apprehended brated the Mets' second World him quickly. Series title in a raucous fashion Meanwhile, more than 55,000 last night although mounted fans exploded in cheers. police kept the carousers from Fireworks sounded throughout taking the field. the stadium. 
When Jesse Orosco struck out Dave Henderson and the center Game 7 featured the noisiest field clock registered 11 :26 crowd of the series. Starting p.m., scores of New York City pitcher Ron Darling had com­police officers on and off horse­plained after the first game back raced to the field to that the real fans had been prevent a recurrence of the replaced by fat cats who had Mets first baseman Keith Hernandez delivered 
vandalism that occurred after the clout to obtain tickets -but the first two RBI's in the sixth inning of Gamethe Mets won the National Monday night, Shea shook. 
7 of the World Series last night. Hernandez also 

The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge Is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TYPINGWORDPROCESSING CALL DOLORES 2n-8131. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
SURPRISE!!III I'VE COME FOR YOU PAT MURPHY, MY ONE AND ONLY TRUE LOVE!!!! See you at soccer practice! 
OHerlng rd-trp ride to Clev. tiY.l1-1112. 255-1508. 
NOW doing typing In my home lor stu­dents. Call 232-1683. 
LOST/FOUND I 
LOST GOLD-TONE PEN ON 10-14-86 IN THE ADM. LOG. OR ON WAY TO LIBRARY. IT HAS GREAT SENTIMEN­TAL VALUE, AND WOULD APPRECI­ATE ITS RETURN. CONTACT DAVID VERRINDER, HISTORY DEPT, 348 O'SHAUGHNESSY. 
HEY RAY You called me and said your parents found my purse. Where did they leave II. Help me! I need my 1.0. and other essentials. CALL MEl MOLLY (megan) 284-5474 
LOST: One gold necklace with 3 charms ("Precious," a hall-heart and a cross). Of GREAT sentimental value­-a reward Is available! Please call Usa at 2862, 218 Lyons. 
Dark blue softball jacket was removed Friday nlght(Oct.10th) from Senior Bar. Description: The left chest had "Brendan" and a patch "USC Softball Champions" Also a petch on the left and right sleeves, "1st place" and "2nd place". If found please send to: Brendan McGuire 1216 Rolling Meadow Rd. Pittsburgh PA 15241 
LOST POCKET WATCH before the break with letters FS engraved on the back. Great sentimental value. Very generous reward. Call 289-5245. 
FOR RENT 

Two room furnished apt. private en­trance utilities paid 288-0955 morn­Ings. 
FOOTBALL FANS Stay at quiet country Bed & Breakfast near Bristol, IND. Toll Exit (219) 825­5707 
WANTED 

HOUSESITTING POSITION WANTED. Missionary MD family needs housing Jan-May. Experienced housesltters. Ref avail. 289-6683 
SPRINGBREAK '87 Campus Rep. Organize Sailing Charters Ft. Lauderdale to Bahamas Commission & Free Cruise Call Captain Williams 1650 SW 23rd Terrance Ft. Lauderdale 33312 (305)583-0202 Anytime 
Wanted: Babysitter. Part-time, flexible hours. Knollwood. Phone Kathy Dvorak, 277-1538. 
HANDYMAN wanted -Yardwork, re­pairs, special projects. Available on Saturdays. Drivers license and trans­portation required. £289-9975 alter 6:00. 
DAYTON Need ride any weekend. Please call Lisa 2685. 
Student Spring Break Representatives for Collegiate Tour & Travel. Earn complementary trips and cash for more Information call (612) 780-9324, or write Naples NE, Minneapolis, MN 55434 att: John 
HELP!! RIDE NEEDED TO PURDUE THIS WEEKEND. WILL SHARE EX· PENSES. CALL SHEILA 284-5181. 
FOR SALE 

TV RENTALS -LOW SEMESTER RATES. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, FORMERLY COLOR CITY 272-5959. 
Is It True You Can Buy Jeeps lor $44 through the U.S. government? Get the facts today! Call 1-312-742-1142 Ex­1.7316. 
TIRED OF CATCHING RIDES? 74 VW Bug For Sale Dave 2n-1714 
TICKETS 
Make sure my parents pay second se­mester tuition so I can get out of this place. Sell me 2 GAs lor Penn State so they can experience NO football. Call Mark at 2339. 
ALUMNI NEED 4 PENN ST. TIX-513· 661-9341 AFTER 5. 
NEED 1-5 GAS OR STD TIX FOR SMU AND PSU CALL PAUL 1758 
FOOLISH MORTALS... The YOCKMONSTER needs 4 Penn State GAs and 4 stud. tlx to lure un­suspecting human sacrifice victims to NO! CALL 232-5478 to make a deal with the Devil! ... THERE IS NO ESCAPE!!! 
NEED 2 GAs AND 1 STUDENT TICKET FOR PENN STATE WILLING TO MAKE A GOOD DEAL CALL CHRIS OR JACK AT 1788 
NEED 5 SMU GA'S AND ONE STUD TIK CALL MIKE 3211 OR 3209 
PARENTS COMING FROM PUERTO RICO. NEED 2 TICKETS FOR NAVY GAME. PLEASE CALL 283-3457. 
.··················~············································ 
WANTED: 1 STUDENT PENN STATE TICKET CALL JAY 1226 
Needed: Penn State tlx (stud. or GA) call Mike Mella 283-1111 
NEED 2 GAs FOR PENN STATE. WILL­ING TO MAKE GOOD DEAL CALL CHRIS AT 1788. 
I NEED 2 SMU TIX!! CAROLYN-3831 
2 ND-SMU GA's 4 SALE; CALL 512­735-2164 
I NEED SMU & PENN ST GAs.272-6306 

DESPERATELY seeking Penn State tickets. I need GA"s andbr student tickets. Help me out II you can! David at 234-3337 
NEED 2 SMU TIX CALL JAY AT £2174 
NEED 6 SMU TIX 
CALL JAY £2174 
Need Penn State GA 's. Please call Sheila 284-5111. 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
SENIORS: DO YOU HAVE A SENSE OF MINISTRY TO THE WORLD AND TO THE CHURCH AS A LAY PERSON. CONSIDER HOLY CROSS AS­SOCIATES IN CHILE. APPLICATION DEADLINE: NOV. 7. SEE MARY ANN ROEMER AT CSC OR JANE PITZ AT MOREAU SEMINARY. 
SENIORS: IF YOU DON'T WANT IBM, PROCTER & GAMBLE, THE BIG 8 ­INVEST IN AN ALTERNATIVE CAREER WHERE VALUES ARE OF ESSENCE IN WHAT YOU DO. EX­PLORE HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES PROGRAMS: USA & CHILE. CONTACT: MARY ANN ROEMER (CSC) OR JANE PITZ (HCA OFFICE). 
NOTRE DAME BEACH CLUB T­SHIRTS 
A VERY MINIMAL AMOUNT OF NOTRE DAME BEACH CLUB T-SHIRTS LEFT. MEDIUMS ONLY $6, LARGE ARE FOR $8. CALL 272-3932 FOR INFORMA· TION. 
NOTRE DAME BEACH CLUB T­SHIRTS 
Thank you St. Jude 
NANCY KELLY CICARELLI HAPPY B­OAY FOR ALL OF YOU WHO FORGOT TO CALL YESTERDAY CALL TODAY..1490 MAKE HER DAY! RED RETREAT"' 'RETREAT'' 'RETREAT Why Am I Catholic? Come join us to explore this question this weekend­Oct. 31 thru Nov. 2. Bishop John M. o· Arcy will lead the retrest lor young adults aged 18-24. For more Info call Cathie Lohmuller at 422-4611 or con­tact Campus Ministry OHice. 
Hey Pat Murphy, How's PERSIS­TENCE?!!! LOVE, NNKD. 
APPTS.NOW BEING ACCEPTED TO WISH TIM LAKE A HAPPY BDAY WEDS. HURRY BEFORE HE'S ALL BOOKED UP!15 MIN.MAX.EACH,PLEASE. 
DC Seminar "Subjects": Thanx lor fun times... Keep wearing those red noses! Don't lose touch ... Tara 2696 
Love you Roomie! Kath 

Happy, happy 21st, Kathleen Priest! I'll take good care of you tonight II you promise you won't punch me In the eye again! 
"You are the Ooadllng..." 
Love you Roomie! Kath 

DESPERATE TEXAN WILL DO AL­MOST ANYTHING FOR 2 SMU TICK­ETS. -STU OR GA-CALL CAROLYN­3831 
THANK YOU, ST. JUDE! 0 HOLY ST. JUDE, APOSTLE AND MARTYR, GREAT IN VIRTUE AND RICH IN MIRACLES, NEAR KINSMAN OF JESUS CHRIST, FAITHFUL INTER­CESSOR OF ALL WHO INVOKE YOUR SPECIAL PATRONAGE IN TIME OF NEED, TO YOU I HAVE RECOURSE, AND FROM THE DEPTH OF MY HEART I HUMBLY BEG TO WHOM GOD HAS GIVEN SUCH GREAT POWER TO COME TO MY ASSISTANCE. HELP ME IN MY PRESENT AND URGENT PETI­TION. IN RETURN I PROMISE TO MAKE YOUR NAME KNOWN AND CAUSE YOU TO BE INVOKED. SAY THREE "OUR FATHER'"S, THREE "HAIL MARY"'S, AND THREE "GLORIA"'S FOR NINE CONSECU­TIVE DAYS. PUBLICATION MUST BE PROMISED. ST. JUDE, PRAY FOR ALL WHO INVOKE YOUR AID. AMEN. THIS PRAYER HAS NEVER BEEN KNOWN TO FAIL. I HAVE HAD MY REQUEST GRANTED. THANK YOU, ST. JUDE! 
URBAN PLUNGE DEADLINE EX­TENDED UNTIL FRIDAY. CALL 239­7943 FOR MORE INFO. 
PAM!!! HAPPY BIRTHDAY, TRAMP. HEADED TO THE BREAKFAST STORE YET? I HEAR KING CELLAR'S. SERVES A MEAN FEAST. ISN'T PUBLICATION SWEET REVENGE? Gert 
CALLING ALL IN TRANSIT...LET'S TALK ABOUT THE PASSION R.E.M FANS...RARE R.E.M MATERIAL, B­SIDES, LIVE STUFF, IMPORTS­"BURNING HELL", "TIGHTEN UP", "FEMME FATALE", MORE-ALL AVAILABLE ON ONE HIGH QUALITY TDK TAPE FOR THE PRICE OF 1 AL­BUM. MOST SONGS STUDIO QUALITY AND IMPOSSIBLE (NO JOKE) TO FIND. CALL CHINESE BROS. INC NOW AT 2495 OR 2550 TO ORDER. VERY LIMITED SUPPLY. 
Ciao Bamblna-Yes, you ANA COMAS! Happy Blrthdaylll Want a banana(!) split lor dasert? Relax...And have a great day! We love you! Kate, Tara, Jenn, Jackie, Chris, Alicia 
Cathy D. Thanks lor a great break! D.C. was everything you said It would be­-and more! Johnny, who was the girl In the red dress? How old was she Chuck? A senlor...ln high school. Lighten up, Coma, II was just a joke! Katy, does your dad always let In stray darners when he lets out the cats? If 
we were bad, at least we weren't as 
bad as we wanted to bell Lava, Sara, 
Carrie and Teresa 
TO KATIE (KT) RUPPE: HAVE A GREAT BIRTHDAY TODAY, OTAY? OH, AND REMEMBER TO GET OFF AT THE POCK ST. STOP. FROM MARGO. 
SENIORS: 
Sign-ups lor the Senior Class Day of 
Reflection are October 28 and 29 at 
the Class OHice (second floor LaFor­
tune, 6to 10 pm). This mlnl-retrest will 
be held at Bulla Shed on Juniper from 
12:30-&:00pm THIS SATURDAY. ALSO 
COMING UP: 
Sunday, Nov. 2 : SENIOR DINNER at 
MACRI's followed by FREE SWIM at 
Roll's Aquatic Center unttL.10:30pm. 
Later that night, It won't be_any ordi­
nary campout lor basketball tlxll The 
Senior Class will be havi!)Q a BAS­
KETBALL TICKET CAMP9UT BASH 
with food, refreshment• at the ACC. 
ALSO MARK YOUR C,\bENDARS 
FOR: ~·· 
Senior Class Ski Trip, Jan.p&t8. Slg­
nups at Class OHice, 7-9Pft!, H-3·1". 
Total package Is $180, $40-dapoalt at 
~~~.:~~:..~~:~~--~-~--~-~-~-~~---~············ 
..-:­

The Observer Tuesday, October 28, 1986-page 8 
~!~~ Volleyball upsets regionally-ranked Buckeyes 
I ~.~ By RICK RIETBROCK "I think you Improve on the Notre Dame went on to post Virginia (15-11 15-7 15-1). 
Sports Writer road by .eat~ng ?t a d~fferent a win against Georgetown, 15-1, The Irish ndw st~nd at 18-6Ca1endaf place, sleepmg m a different 15-6, 10-15, 15-6, but then fell to and Lambert said he was rea-Notre Dame volleyball coach bed. Duke, 15-8, 7-15, 9-15, 11-15. sonably pleased with the 
Special to The Observer Art Lambert was mopping the "It fort:es yo~ to forge t~-Lambert said that the team did team's overall performance. floor of the ACC Pit before yes-gether a httle btt as a team.' not have one of its best perfor­
Non-Varsity Athletics has terday's practice. His team mances in that match. "Everyone played well at announced the following spent its October break mop-The Irish began the trip with "I'm really disappointed times, and everyone had her deadlines for upcoming ping up four out of five oppo-a big win over Ohio State, who with the loss and the girls are moments," he said. "As long events: nents to finish its eight-game was ranked in the top ten in the really disappointed, too," he as we don't repeat some of the 
A meeting for an Ad­road trip with a 6-2 record. region, by scores of 6-15, 16-14, said. "I'm sure a lot of girls mistakes we made." vanced Scuba Clinic is Lambert was mopping the 15-9, 15-8. Ohio State was the would like to have that match slated for Thursday at 6:30 floor to remove the three-point big game, in Lambert's view, back again, but of course we Notre Dame now begins to 
p.m. in Room 218 Rockne. line that the men's basketball and he said he was glad to get can't play it over. embark on the more difficult 
A Basketball Contest, team had used for practice. He it. "We just have to try not to half of its schedule by playingfeaturing one-on-one and said he hoped the road trip had "The team played extremely make those errors again." host to Bradley on Wednesdayfree-throw shooting com­added something to his team. well against Ohio State," he The team finished the trip before hitting the road again to petitions, has a deadline of "I think we're a better team said. "I was real pleased with with wins over North Carolina face Northern Illinois and Mar­Friday. because of the trip," he said. our effort and the outcome." State (15-10, 15-7, 15-12), and quette this weekend. 
Nov. 5 is the deadline for the following NVA events: 

Hockey: 20-man rosters, think you'd be carrying it so DeBerry agreed that Holtz' Boggs, Bosox 
-. 
interhall event, $35 entry fee much.' And I said, 'Hey, I like philosophy of playing "musical 
Running
and insurance consent forms this, coach. This is kind of fun.'' tailbacks" is an asset to the required. Another series of wishbone Irish attack. 
disappointed,

continuedfrom page 12
Basketball: inter hall formations led the Irish into the "They kept running a lot of men's and women's, grad just under six minutes to play endzone on the opening drive different backs at us," he said, 
not ashamed

and club events are planned. in the first half, capping it off in the second half, with Pernell "which I think wore us down Squash: student-faculty with a one-yard keeper after a Taylor hulling his way over after a period of time. We saw 
from one yard out. a little too much of Timmy Associated Press 
open tournament. fake pitch. 
Raquetball: mixed-Beuerlein, who finished the After stopping the Falcons on Brown. He played the game doubles tournament. day with 37 yards on the four plays, Notre Dame came today like the true all­NEW YORK -Wade Boggs' Table Tennis: singles ground, then found Brown cut­through with another long American that he is. face said it all. tournament open to stu­ting across thre middle late in touchdown drive of 62 yards, "You've got to give Foge As the New York Mets cele­
dents, staff and faculty. the half. A leaping grab by ending with freshman tailback Fazio and his defensive staff an brated their World Series Swimming: 50-yard sprint Brown with a defender all over Anthony Johnson flying over A-plus because of the fine job championship on the field at 
tournament with head-to­him picked up 48 yards and set the top from the 1-yard line. they did defensively." Shea Stadium, the American 
head competition. up a John Carney 27-yard field Johnson, starting in place of EXTRA POINTS -Both back­League batting champion sat in 
In addition, a Nov. 14 goal on the last play of the half, Mark Green (who bruised his up quarterbacks Steve Belles the dugout and cried. 
deadline has been an­making the score 17-3. thigh a week earlier), was the and Terry Andrysiak saw ac­
nounced for an upcoming "If Beuerlein's having trou­best of a large contingent in the tion in the game, but the only The 8-5 loss to the Mets in 
Turkey Shoot. ble running the wishbone," Irish rushing column. He pass attempted by either was Game 7 last night left the Bos­
No advanced registration said Air Force coach Fisher racked up 72 yards on 10 an incompletion by Belles ... ton Red Sox hurt and disap­
is required for a Nov. 11 DeBerry, "he sure didn't look carries in the contest. Tim Brown's 95-yard kickoff pointed, but not ashamed, they 
Kayak Clinic at the Rolfs like it today.'' "We only have one ball and return was the first return for said. 
Aquatic Center. "You ask Coach Holtz," that's one of the problems," a touchdown this season for the "There's nothing to be sorry Openings in NVA pro­Beuerlein said, "He didn't Holtz said. "My thinking is to Irish, and the first since about, it was a great Series," grams including aerobics, want me to carry the ball that let everybody play in the back­Brown's 93-yarder last year Boston first baseman Bill 
much. But he wasn't going to field -unless they drop it. against Michigan State. It also Buckner said. 
karate, stretchercise and 

hydrorobics are still avail­complain with the way it was You're going to have to have a earned him Midwest Offensive able as well. working out. Once I gained a lot of people to help you win Player of the Week honors from "We gave it a good shot, but 
Further information couple of yards, I started and we're quite a young team. the Associated Press ... John those guys hit when they had 
ancitor registration may be feeling like a running back and "Running the wishbone gives Carney tied Dave Reeve's to," slugger Jim Rice said. 
obtained by contacting NVA wanted to carry it more. us a chance to get the ball to career field-goal mark by "It hurts, coming so close, 
but we never gave up," Boston at 239-6100 or by stopping by "Coach Holtz apologized to Timmy Brown a little bit booting his 39th in an Irish uni­reliever Bob Stanley said. 

the NVA offices in the ACC. me. He said, 'I'm sorry. I didn't more." form. 
Sign Upl 
The Observer is now accepting applications for positions in the Production Department. 
• 
No experience necessary 

• 
We will train you in layout and design techniques 

• 
Chance to advance Get involved 



Sign up now in The Observer's LaFortune office. 

Be a scientific officer in the Air Force. The Air Force is forging new frontiers in advanced technology. If you have a Scientific degree, you may qualify to work with the best and receive all the outstanding advantages and opportunities the Air Force offers. Call 
Capt Faircloth (317) 269-6353 collect 

Apply for the TIME College Achievement 
profiled in a special promotional section of 
Awards and find out. TIME Magazine i~ search­
TIME. Eighty finalists will receive $250 each. 
ing for 100 college juniors who have Jistinguished 
All 100 students will be given tirst con~ideration 
themselves by their excellence, in academics and, 
t(Jr internships with participating corporations. 
more importantly, exceptional achievement out­
Dead I inc for applications is December 31, 
side the classroom. 
1986. Details at your dean\ office or call 1-800­
The top 20 winners will be awarueu $2.500 anu 
523-5948. In Pennsylvania, call 1-800-637-8509. 
TIME 

The College Achievement Awan.b 

Tuesday, October 28, 1986 -page 9 
Improvement on horizon for Sailing Club 
Although the Notre Dame Sailing Club has not Club Vice-President John Weber. "It's all a feeder fared as well as usual in regular season regattas, system for the Bengals."the Irish are still confident of advancing to the pres­Steve Fifty people had originally come out for the 
tigious Timmie Angstrom Regatta. 
Megargee Novice Bouts, but only 24 of those stayed with the
1!1!
Notre Dame will compete in a regatta at Toledo program. this weekend that includes 18 schools from all over 
Club Corner

the Midwest. This competition, however, will only Facing its toughest competition all season over be a prelude to the most important regatta this year Fall Break, a couple of technicalities kept the for the Irish -the Area A Eliminations. Rowing Club from doing as well as the Irish had 
The Area A Eliminations will be held at the Uni­grams, and we'd get our first chance in the hoped. versity of Michigan the following weekend. If the Timmies," said Fink. The men's team sent two lightweight eights to Irish can finish in the top three teams in a field After stumbling to a 1-3 start, the Rugby Club the Head of the Schuylkill in Philadelphia. The A that includes Michigan, Michigan State, and has rallied back to .500 before facing Ft.Knox on boat finished twenty-fourth, and the B boat came Purdue, among others, they will advance to the November 1 in its last regular season match of the in twenty-ninth. A problem with equipment kept the Timmie Angstrom Regatta. The Timmie Angstrom year. A boat from a higher finish. Regatta, held in tne Chicago Yacht Club over Notre Dame raised its record to 3-3 with a 22-0 "In the A boat, one of the oarsmen lost his seat. Thanksgiving break, will include about 20 of the pasting of Valparaiso on October 18. Terry Sigler He tried to row without it, but he coul&'t, so he best teams throughout the country. led the scoring attack with two tries, and Len had to abandon ship," said Men's Captain John 
"We've done well in the Area A's the past three Profenna added another try. Ralph. "We went a lot of the race with seven years," said Club President Tony Fink. "The "We played pretty well. I was surprised because rowers.'' powerhouses in the Midwest are the University of I thought a lot of people would be taking off for Over in Boston, the women's team had some prob­Michigan and ourselves." break, but a lot of people stayed around," said Club lems with a bridge on its way to a tenth place finish 
With a tougher bunch of teams in the Midwest President Quentin Williams. "We're still in the the out of 14 teams. this year, Notre Dame's making sure not to look running for the Midwest Regional Tournament, and "We were passing a boat when we went to a curve. past the Area A's this year. that's where we want to be." There were three archways in a bridge on the curve. 
"The rest of the schools have really improved About 16 schools advance to the Midwest Regional You're supposed to go under the middle archway, incredibly this year," said Fink. "Schools like Tournament. and we were supposed to get the right of way, but Northwestern and Hope College were never big On the surface, the Novice Bouts, held the week they didn't give us the right of way," said Women's threats. Now they are." before Fall Break, would appear to be a disappoint­Captain Stephanie Jordan. "We lost about a minute 
A spot in the Timmie Angstrom Regatta would ment with only 24 fighters participating. The Boxing under the bridge. We could have gotten sevnth or also give the Irish a chance to accomplish one of Club felt otherwise. eighth." their major goals for the season. "The quality of the fights made up for the lack Both teams will compete next in a regatta at 
"We're putting more emphasis on beating the of people participating. The quality of fights will Knoxville, Tennessee, in their last regatta of the Eastern schools because they're all varsity p~o-help out this spring for the Bengal Bouts," said year. 
And thus continued the sad and an error by first baseman The Mets Ied 6-3, and they nandez took one strike, then hit 
Mets saga of the Red Sox, losers of Bill Buckner. were on their way. 
a slicing line drive into left­four straight seven-game Knight's homer came off Cal­The Mets started poorly in center, easily scoring two runs
continuedfrom page 12 
World Series -1946, 1967, 1975 vin Schiraldi, the loser in Game the seventh game as Dwight and sending Teufel to third. 
six innings and gave up three and 1986. In fact, the Red Sox 6 who had come in to start the Evans and Gedman hit con­
runs on seven hits in Game 5 have not won a Series since seventh for Hurst. secutive homers in the second Backman then came in to run of the American League 1918, when Babe Ruth was still After Knight's homer, the inning and Boston jumped to a for Teufel, and Carter hit a playoffs. with the club. 11th of the World Series but the 3-0 lead off Ron Darling. little looper into right field. The Red Sox won that game In Game 6, they were one out first by a home-team player, The Mets finally got to Hurst Right fielder Evans made a 7-6 in 11 innings to begin a com­away from winning it all, Lenny Dykstra came in to hit in the sixth inning and tied the dive for the ball, but couldn't eback from a 3-games-to-1 def­leading 5-3 with two outs in the for Kevin Mitchell and singled score 3-3 with three runs, two come up with it cleanly. Back­icit against California. This 10th inning. But the Mets came to right. Dykstra went to on Hernandez's bases-loaded man scored easily, but when time, the Red Sox couldn't back to score three runs on second on a wild pitch on a single. Evans rolled over the ball, Her­quite make it all the way back. three straight hits, a wild pitch pitchout, and Rafael Santana Hurst had retired 11 in a row nandez couldn't clearly tell singled down the first-base line and had allowed one hit when whether it had been caught.for another run. the Mets sent up pinch-hitter That gave Evans time to throw Pitcher Roger McDowell Lee Mazzilli, who singled and Hernandezoutatsecondforthe sacrificed Santana to second, scored the tying run in the second out of the inning, and and Joe Sambito came in to eighth inning of Game 6. Maz­Strawberry lined out to shallow 
FOR 
FUTUREMBAs 
pitch for Boston. He walked zilli singled with one out, and left for the third out of the in­
THESEARCHENDSHERE 
Mookie Wilson intentionally, Wilson followed with a single ning. Meet representatives from many of the country's 
then walked Wally Backman to that sent Mazzilli to second. With over 75 schools. leading graduate management schools. 
load the bases. Hernandez fol­Hurst then walked Tim But the score was 3-3, and the In one place. Discuss admissions, curriculum, financial aid, 
lowed with a sacrifice fly to Teufel on five pitches to load Mets' master of no-decisions, In one day. career development and placement. 
center that chased Sambito, the bases, bringing up Hernan­Darling, was off the hook. -------Receive the free booklet, The MBA and You, 
and Bob Stanley got Gary dez, who had only one RBI in During the season, he had 13 admissions materials and catalogs. 
Carter to ground out. the previous six games. Her-decisionless starts and a 15-6 
rel>"i<tration is $5 bleat the door. 
record. He had pitched in two World Series games with a 1-1Presents a lecture by 
record, but he was out of this Paul Brodeur 
one in the fourth inning after author of 

giving up three Red Sox runs The Zapping of America 
in the second. and Sponsored by the Outrageous Misconduct; Tbe Asbestos 
Hurst, meanwhile, came out Industry on Trial 
for a pinch hitter in the on 
seventh. He worked six in­nings, giving up three runs on"ENEMIES OF THE PEOPLE: four hits. The winner of Games INDUSTRY'S ATTACK UPON COMMON LAW RIGHTS 
1 and 5, he worked a total of 23 IN AMERICA" 
innings in the Series, giving up five runs on 18 hits.
Wednesday, October 29 

PEPPERDINE UNIVERSITY 
MBA AT MALIBU 
The Pepperdine MBA at Malibu program is recognized as one of the most 
TASte Ike .A.roma of RDtnance.....
practical and real-world oriented programs in the nation. Designed for both 
Tu. Speclat: All you con eat S~rlon Dtnner
business and non-business majors, the program can be completed in one or 
fondue Styletwo years at the University's Malibu campus. Wed Special: All you con eat Seotood Dtnner 
Fondue Style 
TIK Spectal: All you con eat ChiCken Dtnner Fondue Style
A representative from Pepperdine will be on campus to meet with interested 
Try our Chel"s leatured entrees Fndoy ond
students. Enrollment for the Fall1987 term will be limited to 75 students. 
Solurdoy eventngs 
---.-Dllcount Coupon--..
Date: October 30, 1986 
Th1S Coupon enlttles yOu IQ IOU OOIICJ'S Off the IOIOI pnce
1 ime: 12:00-4:00 ot yQ\.1 d1mer tcket when O'denng I'NQ c:l:lnrers T/'los c~ CCJ'Yl()l oe useo .....,rn rnv olrlet' DI'OT'OIO"''O oner 0"10 
cnv ere cQl.PYI oer 1ooe tt"()'\\o; vau
Location: Continuing Education Center 
For additional information, please call (213) 306-5672. 
j 


The Observer Tuesday, October 28, 1986 -page 10 
Mets' Knight plays hero, namedMVP 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Ray Knight, the man the New York Mets didn't want, turned out to be the one they needed the most, and was named most valuable player of the World Series last night. 
Knight, who batted .391 with nine hits in 23 at-bats, hit the seventh-inning home run that broke a 3-3 tie and sparked the Mets to an 8-5 victory over Boston in the seventh game. 
Knight was being fitted for goat horns in Game 6 after his throwing error gave Bos­ton a lead that could have ended the Mets' season. But he came back to score the winning run in the bottom of the lOth inning of Saturday night's 6-5 victory, and then played the hero in Game 7. 
"I was so down the other night because of the error," Knight said. "Just goes to show you, if you keep fight­ing, anything can happen. 
Giants down Redskins behind Morris' rushing 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 
Joe Morris rushed for 181 yards and two touchdowns, including a 13-yard sweep of right end for the winning points with 1:38 to play, as the New York Giants defeated the Washington Redskins 27-20 last night, creat­ing a three-way tie for first place in the NFC East. 
Morris, who carried 31 times, followed big blocks by Chris Godfrey and Maurice Carthon and then sidestepped the final five yards into the end zone. It capped a 10 play, 81-yard drive, with Morris carrying five times for 66 yards. 
The victory gave New York a 6-2 mark and put the Giants in a first-place tie with Wash-. ington and Dallas. It also nul­lifed a great comeback for Washington and outstanding performances by quarterback Jay Schroeder, who completed 22 of 40 passes for 420 yards, and wide receiver Gary Clark, who had 11 receptions for 241 yards. 
However, Schroeder missed 
on his last attempt of the game 
after driving the Redskins to 
the Giants' 35 in the final min­
ute. 

The Redskins rallied for 17 straight second-half points against the NFL's best-rated defense to tie the game 20-20 on a 29-yard field goal by Max Zendejas with 4:20 to go. 
The field goal, like all the Redskins points in the rally, was set up by a big play. This time it was a 47-yard pass from Schroeder to Art Monk. 
In the third-quarter, the Giants defense blew a deep coverage and Schroeder hit Clark on a 42-yard touchdown pass on a third-and-19 play. On Washington's previous series, Schroeder hit Ricky Sanders on a 71-yard pass play to the New York 1, setting up a short touch­down run by George Rogers. 
The Giants had opened a 20-3 lead midway through the third quarter as Allegre booted field goals of 37 and 44 yards, Morris scored on an 11-yard run and Phil Simms hit Bobby Johnson on a 30-yard scoring pass. 
"They were pounding us," overtime period. 
said Grace. "We didn't get And despite the lopsided 3-0 much of an attack going. I score in the Penn State game, continued/rom page 12 wasn't sure how we would Breslin had another fine game, respond to the goal." recording nine saves. But the The UConn match was the The Irish did not fold -rather, Nittany Lions chose that game first of a two-game road trip they sent the game into over­to play their best soccer of the 
UConn 

for the Irish over fall break. time. season. Last Friday Notre Dame In the second overtime per­''The had a clinic scheduled finished the road trip with a 3-0 iod Notre Dame had a corner at 7:15 Friday, and we were 

Erasmus Books 
loss to Penn State. kick. The ball bounced to Guig­there," said Grace. "It's the 
1027 E. Wayne

Despite the two-week layoff non, who sent a shot wide to the best team I've seen in two 
Tues.-Sun., noon-6

prior to the UConn game, Notre right of the goal. But Murphy years. They are awesome." 
I block south of Jefferson & Eddy

Dame got off to a strong start was in the ball's path, and The Irish made one change 
Used & out of print books bought, sold, searched
232-8444

against the Huskies. The Irish deflected it into the net with the defensively for the road trip. controlled play early on, but back of his heel. Co-captain Steve Lowney was 
::!!-:·:-:-:·:·:·:·:·:-:-:·:·:·:·:·:·:·::;:::::::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::;:;:::::::::;:;:::;:::::::;:;::·::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;.;:;:;:;:;:;:;::.:·:·::::~:
UConn applied pressure late in "It was a spontaneous type moved from wingback to the first half. of thing," said Murphy. "I sweeper for both games. 
The Irish continued their didn't think I'd have time to "I was just getting used to ••• The New York DelJ & Cafe •••• strong play in the second half, turn and shoot. But when the it," said Lowney. "What I do which resulted in the first goal ball went in, it was just a great best is marking. I'm not that of the game. Wingback Bill feeling." used to setting up the Gross took the ball down the Even more amazing is the marking." left side of the field, and cen­fact that Murphy still has the Sweeper Pat Szanto did not tered it to forward Bruce opportunity to play soccer. The make the trip because of dis­"Tiger" McCourt. McCourt's St. Louis native was left in the ciplinary reasons. header was touched by the cold last year when Creighton IRISH ITEMS -Despite the UConn keeper, but the ball folded its soccer team. But at UConn victory, the Irish did not dribbled into the corner of the the urging of Guignon, he trans­move from their ninth-ranked net. ferred to Notre Dame this year, position in the Great Lakes 
McCourt's goal at the 63:24 and has done an excellent job Region...Notre Dame is 10-0-1 mark moved him into a tie for coming off the bench. in games that McCourt has sixth place in the nation of all But as Murphy showed, the scored. NCAA Division I leading victory was not just his. As he scorers. McCourt has 34 points scored, he sprinted all the way on 14 goals and six assists. back down the field to keeper 
The Huskies tied it 10 min­Hugh Breslin, who played an 
POSmONS ~~F~......
utes later on a shot from out­excellent game. He recorded side the penalty area. six saves, including two in the AVAILABLE 
lll~ Hamemade soups, New Yort Style chill, homemade · ) breeds, fresh salads, belgian waffles, buttermilk f!i!
AREA REP MANAGER 
i p•ncekes, gourmet Ice cream, fountain dellcetiea, New(
Earn salary, commiulon and
~J'HALLOWEEN ROAD TRIP<,~ I f Yart cheesecake, gourmet burgers, end of course ell ~~~· 
free travel. PositioD"involves
IA+"~ TO 0~" management ofarea campus t your feuortte dell meets end aendwlthea. j04..~ UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS ~,. reps for a national college 


~ 
$35-TRANSPORTATION & LODGING $21-TRANSPORTATION ONLY BUS LEAVES FRIDAY, OCT. 313:30 PM FROM MAIN CIRCLE RETURNING SUNDAY, NOV. 2 
~ol\ ft!~f,"~
:tC~ 
~~o~~t-6-t 
'tl'f, 
£ ,.,o
\1\'t~ 

SIGN-UP WI DORM REPS. DEADLINE: OCT. 28 

travel and marketing fum. Ill! Join us for breDkfDst, lunch, Dnd dinner.._ !!)1 Approximately 20 hours per 
week, ideal for senior or 
Ill: I00 Center, Mishawaka Party Trays Availabljj~
graduate student. 

:~~~: Mon-Fri 7 -8 256-0710 \CAMPUS REP 
:t Saturday 8 -9:30 )
Earn commission and free 
:I sunday 9 -5 (
travel. Market ski and beach tours on your campus. 
I I
Can Steve Mandelman at 
:~~~:New York Deli & Cafe' Discount Coupon...._.._....):
414-276-7700 or write to 
American Access Travel, 238 
:jjj\ With this coupon, buy any saJad pJate and aeta second .lll:
W. Wisconsin Ave., Suite 800, Milwaukee, WI 53203 tplate for 112 price. Brina a friend! \ 
~j~j Tbi1 coupon cannot be u•d with aoy other promotional offer aod ilii 
CAllTOllFREE ~:~: oJlly one cpUJIOJl per l&ble...Lbaot you ~:~: 
(800) 992-3773 
l::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::~::;:;:;:;:;:::::;:::::::::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::;~:::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::!lii 

-----------------------~------------~---------------------------------------------------------~---------------­
'JI['4(Jt~ttll~--------------------------------------------------•T•u•e•s•da•y•,•O•c•to.b.er..28•'•19•8•6···p·a-ge...ll Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 


TIME FoR 
I

BIG FUN • is Coming! October 31st 

Bloom County 
MfY, IU tiWT P/18 
11 tlmt U~rtr(!N~" ro me-tJt 'Plr5.. 
I 

Beer Nuts 
GOD, LADY, HIIRRY PLEASE! 
IN 10 MORE SECONDS 11Y 
EYEBALLS LJILLBE FJ.OATIN6! 
0 
0 
0 
... AN!l f/?!5/leN 7116 MIITH ... YW'/?6 A c.rme N6KV(}(Js. 
Wlffl ''R/6/tr WIIKfl~l 
YMH, I/ff Ktl/P/7() f,a t1NY711/Nb /!
I 

Mark Williams 
THE AIRliNE IS PAYING FOR TIIESE ~~~~~H SUOE'S , VDU KND"-1 ! 

Campus 
9:00a.m. -12:00 Ticket Sales, World Wres­tling Federation, featuring Hulk Hogan, November 19, students must present valid I.D., tickets $12 and $9 
7:00p.m.: Meeting, Inventors Club, 222 Cushing 
7:00p.m.: Meeting, Anti-Apartheid Net­work, letter-writing campaign to the Trus­tees will be initiated at this time, cof­feehouse of the esc 
SObering Advice 
can save alife 
Think BefOre You Drink BefOre You Drive 
ofthe Castle Men's Hairstyling ~.a.:· $6studem $8.50 complete .. cut style 
MINUTES AWAY FROM CAMPUS 
272-0312 217·1691 
DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 
We aleo feat•r• tile Royal Bro..e S••ta••l•8 C.•ter See • ••• Ia ••••••• ... Not Ho•r• 
I 
~' Road p ~~Saoodwlc'-l 
Dinner Menus Notre Dame 
Roast Breast of Turkey Beef Stuffed Pepper Spinich Quiche Tuna Muffin with Cheese 
Saint Mary's 
Roast Beef Baked Breaded Fish Bean Chimichanga 
Deli Bar 
,.~. . 
·~~ ! 
-~ ··· .. 
HELP FIGHT BIRTH DEFECTS 
Support the 
March of Dimes 
-lfQTH DEfECTS FOUNDATION-

Snake horror stories 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Gels 5 Skin openings 
10 Chin. dog 14 Tarry 15 Cut short 16 Particle 17 Cruising 18 Nerve 
networks 19 Housetop 20 Gleeful 23 Ore vein 24 Southern 
college: abbr. 25 Be ambitious 28 Plummet 33 "Thus-
Zarathustra" 
(Nietzsche) 34 Idler 35 Period of time 36 Location 37 Regretting 38 Shady deal 39 Expert 40 Sea mammal 41 Harlan Fiske 
or Irving 42 Country singer 
Barbara 44 Essay 45 Grain 46 Boutique 47 Sitting -(in 
high spirits) 55 Desideratum 56 Gossip 57 --do-well 58 Comic Reiner 59 Fr. river 60 Notion 61 Sea bird 62 Pennies 63 Conservative 
DOWN 1 Did the crawl 2 Alleviate 3 Layer 4 Astral 5 Procession 6 Stout 7 Circuit of 
events 8 Norse explorer 9 Passerine bird 

<>1986 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 10/28/86
All Rights Reserved 
10 Carnival 11 Angler's need 12 Indian 13 Propel 
lightly 21 Olden times 22 Oahu or Bali 25 Silkworm site 26 Kind of 
bandage 27 Eucharist 
plate 28 Warble 29 Excellent 30 Legendary 
cowboy,­

Bill 31 Mideast 
native 32 Titles 34 Double 37 Oratory 38 Hurry upl 40 Swathe 41 Movie 43 Scribble 
idly 

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

10/18/86 

44 "-no 50 Unite business ... " 51 Feds 
46 Brief 52 Make over 47 Formerty 53 Villain's 48 Close by look 
49 Gull 54 Heavy cart 

-~----------­
~----------------~------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, October 28, 1986-page 12
Seorts Mets top Red Sox to take World Series title 
Knight's home run ignites climactic Mets' comeback 

Notre Dame ends Air Force jinx with basic running attack 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Ray Knight ig­nited a three-run rally in the seventh inning with a home run, climaxing another New York comeback and sending the Mets to their second World Series championship with a 8-5 victory last night over the Bos­ton Red Sox. 
The Mets scored three runs in the sixth inning, two on a single by Keith Hernandez, to chase two-game Series winner Bruce Hurst and tie the score 3-3. Then Knight led off the seventh with a homer to left­center that started the Mets to their first World Series title since 1969. 
Hernandez capped the inning with a sacrifice fly for a 6-3 lead. 
The Mets still had one last obstacle to overcome as the Red Sox rallied for two runs in the eighth and had the tying run on second base with no one out. 
But Jesse Orosco came out of the bullpen and got Rich Ged­man on a line drive to second, struck out Dave Henderson and got pinch-hitter Don Baylor to ground out to short. 
Darryl Strawberry led off the eighth with a homer off Boston 
By MARTY STRASEN Assistant Sports Editor 
Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz will not concede that any victory is an easy one, but pick­ing up his second win at the Irish helm was kind of like reading a second-grade textbook. 
See Steve run. See Tim run. See Anthony run. And see the 2-4 Notre Dame football team run all over the Air Force Academy last Saturday after­noon, posting a 31-3 triumph over the baffled Falcons. 
The victory snapped a four­year streak of consecutive Air Force wins over the Irish. 
"I'm really happy for our football players," said Holtz, "especially our seniors. Air reliever AI Nipper. Orosco, bat­ting for only the fourth time this season, singled in Knight with the eighth New York run. 
Winners of major league­leading 108 games during the season, the big question about the Mets was how they would hold up under pressure. They had never been tested. 
But they won their third Na­tional League pennant in a tense six-game playoff with Houston, culminating in the longest postseason game in his­tory, a 6-5, 16-inning victory in the Astrodome. 
Then, after losing the first two games of the World Series at home, they became only the second team in World Series history to come back to win. The only other team to do it was last year's Kansas City Royals. 
The Red Sox came back with Hurst on three days' rest, taking advantage of a rainout of Game 7 on Sunday night. It was a gamble because Red Sox Manager John McNamara had said Hurst didn't pitch well on three days' rest. In his only other appearance this season on three days' rest, he worked 
The New York Mets celebrated their first .World Series title since 1969 last night.
see METS, page 9 

Force has beaten us in some real close ballgames the last four years. 
"We had a lot of big plays from a lot of different people. I felt that our defense just kept us in the ballgame the whole way, and we felt we had enough points to win by the end of the third quarter.'' 
Notre Dame scored all 31 points in the first three quar­ters, after falling behind on a Chris Blasy field goal with 55 seconds to go in the opening period. 
But then Notre Dame began to run and run and run.
000 000 

Junior flanker Tim Brown caught the ensuing kickoff on the Irish 5-yard line in the right corner, and broke back toward the middle. While Air Force's contain man slipped on the play, Brown broke one feeble attempt a:t a tackle at his own 15 and promptly bursted up the middle for a 95-yard touchdown return, giving Notre Dame the lead for good. 
"When I cut back to the middle, there wasn't anyone there," Brown said. "I was just looking at the goal line and I felt one guy hit my leg. It was just off to the races from there. 
"We've been coming close (to breaking one) in the last couple of weeks and we finally got one. I really needed this. I'm starting to settle down and play the kind of ball I know I can play." 
The Falcons used the wish­bone offense to average better than 230 rushing yards a game
.. 
The 
heading into the contest, but it was clear from the outset that Notre Dame's defense was up to the challenge on this day. 
Vicious hits by linebacker Cedric Figaro and strong safety George Streeter (replacing the injured Brandy Wells) caused Air Force fumbles in the first half, both of which were pounced on by Figaro. 
"Today we came out and at­tacked them," Figaro said. "Before (the past two years) we played more of a slow-play defense, which I felt hurt us. Today we didn't wait for them -we went out and attacked." 
Streeter, in addition to causing a fumble, tied Mike Kovaleski with eight tackles on the day, including three for 
ND soccer scores 'biggest win ever' 
By PETE GEGEN Assistant Sports Editor 
In a game described by Irish head coach Den­nis Grace as "the biggest win ever in the history of Notre Dame soccer," the Irish defeated the University of Conneticut, 2-1, in overtime. 
A crowd of 4,300 witnessed the Huskies' first loss at home since Oct. 24, 1984, when they lost to Penn State, 2-1. Notre Dame also ended UConn's eight-game winning streak. 
"We had very good team defense," said Grace. "We had an excellent work rate, our team was good. It's amazing what you can get done when you play together. Togetherness is what's making this team good." 
Irish forward-midfielder Pat Murphy scored the winning goal in overtime on an assist from Johnny Guignon. 
losses, and also broke up two passes. 
Air Force settled for only 186 rushing yards to Notre Dame's 237, and completed only five passes despite trailing for most of the game. Junior quarter­back Jim TomaJlo, usuaJly a threat on the ground, was held to just 12 net yards rushing; 
Back-up signal-caller Dee Dowis was intercepted late in the fourth quarter by Irish free safety Steve Lawrence, adding to the Falcon turnover total. 
That made Holtz' strategy quite simple -run. 
Senior quarterback Steve Beuerlein led an Irish version of the wishbone on an "in-your­face" touchdown drive with 
see RUNNING, page 8 

Irish quarterback Steve Beuerlein fakes the handoff stay in to block. Marty Strasen details Notre 
see UCONN, page 10 

as D'Juan Francisco (32) and Pernell Taylor (46) Dame's easy victory above. 






