

Senior Bob Schushinski looks on as freshman government election and referendum. Related Mike Marshall casts his votes in yesterday's student stories appear at right and below. 
Voters want Notre Dame to divest 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Domagalski, Switek to battle in run-off election 
By LYNNE R. STRAND 
Staff Reporter 

Jim Domagalski and Mike Switek will face each other in a run­off for Notre Dame student body president tomorrow after neither received enough votes to win yesterday's election. 
Domagalski and Laurie Bink received 2,095 votes, 47.8 percent of the votes cast. Switek and Don Montanaro tallied 875 votes, or 20 percent. 
A candidate needs to receive more than 50 percent of the votes to win the election, according to Tom Brennan, Ombudsman election of­ficer. 
Domagalski missed winning last night's ballot by 95 votes. 
Close behind Switek was the ticket of Bruce Lohman and Jim Crandall with 810 votes, or 18.5 percent. 
With 60.5 percent of Notre Dame undergraduates voting, this year's turnout was significantly higher than last year's total of 44 percent. 
"I'm very pleased with the tur­nout," said Brennan. "I think the constitution, anti-apartheid, and presidential guys all brought in the vote." 
In a distant fourth place was Mike Millen and Sheila O'Connor, who gathered 312 votes, 7.1 percent of the votes cast. Mike Torkelson 
By ELL\'N MASTAKO 
Senior Staff Reporter 

Notre Dame should divest from 
companies which have operations 
in South Africa, according to most 
students who voted in yesterday's 
referendum. 

Of the students who voted, 48 percent were in favor of divest­ment, 33 percent were against divestment and 19 percent voted "no opinion/not adequately in­formed." 
Fifty-eight percent of all Notre Dame undergraduates voted in the divestment referendum. 
"Everyone on campus has the right to express their opinion and I'm glad that they did," said University President Father Theodore Hesburgh when inform­
ed of the results of the divestment 
referendum. 

"I'm glad that so many people took an interest in the divestment issue," said senior John Dettling, a member of the Board of Trustees Ad Hoc Committee on South African Investments. "I'm also kind of surprised that it passed because I thought a Io.t of students would be swayed by Father Hesburgh's stand on the issue. 
"The results show that there is a substantial interest and understanding of the issue on cam­pus. Our voices will now be heard by the Board of Trustees." 
Dettling also said the next logical step is for more students to actively support the Anti-Apartheid Net­work in the network's weekly rallies. 
"It's also logical that Student Body President Bill Healy, as a representative of the student body, should advocate the position of divestment to the Board of Trustees," he added. 
Healy, however, said he was not convinced that most students sup­port divestment. 
"Only 48 percent of the students who voted at all chose divestment," said Healy. "The student body does not overwhelmingly support divest­ment. Thus, the Anti-Apartheid Network cannot claim to be representative of the students as a whole. 
"I will bring the statistics from the referendum to the Board of 
see DIVEST, page 4 

Election results  
SBPandSBVP number  percent  
Jim Domagalski 2,095  47.8  
Laurie Bink  
Mike Switek 875  20  
Don Montanaro  
Bruce Lohman  810  18.5  
Jim Crandall  
Mike Millen  312  7.1  
Sheila O'Connor  
Mike Torkelson  130  3  
John Kromer  
Tom Grier  88  2  
Steve Guenther  
John Walsh  70  1.6  
Pat Walsh  

New constitution comes up short 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI 
Senior Staff Reporter 

The student body rejected a pro­posal for a new constitution yester­day, leaving student government restructuring in a state of confu­sion. 
Although more than half the students voted for the constitution, it failed to obtain the two-thirds majority needed for adoption. 
Now, another constitution proposal will be presented to the Hall Presidents' Council tomorrow night. Whether or not the HPC has the power to adopt this proposal, however, is the focus of some debate. 
Nevertheless, proponents of the original proposal said they were upset by the proposal's defeat. 
"I didn't expect it to pass, not with the circulating petition misrepresenting what was going to 
happen," said Student Senator Jim Hagan. Brain Holst, chairman of the 
Committee on Restructuring, agreed with Hagan. "I'm disap­pointed because I think the issue got confused by the other pro­posal," he said. 
Opponents of the proposed con­stitution said they were glad the proposal was rejected. "I'm glad it didn't go through," said Carroll Hall President Steve Kern. "I don't think the senate would be effective in a 28 to 30 person body." 
Many said the latest constitution proposal, presented to the Student Senate Monday night, confused the students and helped defeat the pro­posed constitution. 
Student leaders disagree about whether the HPC has the power to adopt the latest constitution pro­posal. 
"If the HPC passes it, it is . adopted," said Healy. 
According to the present con­stitution, an amendment proposed by the senate may be adopted by a two-thirds vote of the HPC. 
Although the senate did not vote to propose the amendment, "It is in effect a proposal by the student senate," Healy said. The student senate had no say on it because the student body (by presenting the petition) "forced the hand of the student senate." Healy said no one opposed his interpretation at the senate meeting. 
Maher Mouasher, chairman of Ombudsman, disagreed with Healy's interpretation. "It is not a proposal by the senate, it is a pro­posal by tlie student body," said Mouasher. He said because it is a proposal by the student body, the present constitution does not allow the HPC to adopt it. 
Divestment Yes 
No 
Undecided 

New constitution Yes 
No 

and John Kromer took 130 votes, or 3 percent. Tom Grier and Steve Guenther received 88 votes, 2 per­cent, while John Walsh and Pat Walsh received 70 votes, 1.6 per­cent. 
There were 106 write-ins and abstentions. 
All 24 dorms were won by either Domagalski, Switek or Lohman. Domagalski was supported by 15 dorms and off campus while split­ting the Howard Hall vote with Switek. Both Switek and Lohman won four dorms. 
Flanner and Breen-Phillips Halls supported their home candidates Domagalski and Bink, while Switek and Montanaro carried the vote in Cavanaugh, their home dorm, as well as Fisher, Keenan, and Sorin. Lohman and Crandall also won their home dorms, Carroll and Stanford. respectively, and also took Dillon and Pasquerilla East. 
"We're really excited by the tur­
nout received; however, we realize 
it's not over yet," said Domagalski 
after the election returns were an­
nounced late last night by Om­
budsman. 

"We're taking it (the run-off elec­
tion) very seriously. It's very impor­
tant to get everyone who voted for 
us on the first round to vote for us 
see VOTE, page 4 
2,082  48  
1,417  33  
807  1 9  

'1,957 53 1,770 47 


The Observer Wednesday, March 5, 1986 -page 2 


In Brief 
"My pig fell down the furnace, and I had to take it apart to get him out," won a contest for the best excuse for being late. David Klee, of Brown City, was awarded $100 for giving his bosses the best reason for being late for work, the Detroit Free Press reported Sunday. Other entries came from adults and school children, and included fear of spiders, falling into a "black hole" and being questioned by aliens, and this one by nine year old Wen­dy Hausseler of Manchester: My tongue got stuck on a metal pole and my morn didn't notice me not getting on the bus." -AP 
You just missed a bargain! A collection of Indian sitarist Ravi Shankar's greatest hits sold for $30 at an auction held to raise money to pay legal expenses for the Bhagwan Shree Ra­jneesh. The guru left Rajneeshpuram, his Oregon commune-city, after he pleaded guilty to federal immigration fraud charges and was deported to India. He also paid a $40,000 fine before he left. Also on the block Sunday were an 18-karat gold enameled decora­tion that had been a part of a chair he used, a silver Indian flute with dangling medallions and a handcrafted wood-and-glass display case. -AP 
Kevin Christenson has been selected by "ADWORKS -The Notre Dame Advertising Network" as their president for the 1986-87 school year. -The Observer 
Of Interest 
Attention seniors: T.J. Conley, a repre~entative from the Jesuit Volunteer Corps will be in the Library Concourse today from 9:30 a.m. until 3 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. 
-The Observer 
The alcohol policy at Notre Dame: is it working? This question will be asked tonight on WVFI-AM's Radio Free Notre Dame. Join host John Rogers and his guests from 11 p.m. until! 
a.m. for discussion. He will also be taking listeners' calls and comments on the air at 239-6400. -The Observer 
Dr. Mark Neely' Jr.' director of the Louis A. warren Lincoln Library and Museum in Fort Wayne, will present "The Case of Mary Todd Lincoln: The Insanity File" tomorrow at 7:45 
p.m. in Carroll Hall at Saint Mary's. All are welcome to this lec­ture on the mental health of Abraham Lincoln's wife. -The Observer 
Bill Healy and Duane Lawrence, the current stu­dent body president and vice president will be the guests on WVFI­AM's Campus Perspectives tonight from 10 to 11. Lynne Strand will interview them on their past year in student government and the future of Notre Dame. Calls from listeners will be taken at 239­6400. -The Observer 
Professor John Dunne, esc, will pres~nt "Reflec­tions on Prayer and Action," tonight at 7 in the Lady Chapel at Sacred Heart Church. This is the third lecture in the Center for Social Concerns-University Ministry Lenten Series. -The Observer 

Weather 
Mother Nature obviously voted for snow yesterday, as there will be a 50 percent chance of snow today with highs in the mid to upper 30s. A 60 percent chance of snow tonight with lows in the mid to upper 20s. A 20 percent chance of light snow Thursday with highs in the low 30s. 

--·-------.1..-:=Y~ -·-·
--I-he-Obse~~er-­

The Observer is continuing to ex­perience typesetting difficulties in the daily operation of the newspaper. The staff apologizes for any delays or production er­rors. The situation will be amended as soon as possible. 


Some words for the losers: Lombardi was a psychopath 
I rad for student body president once. It was in grammar school and there were several other can­didates running, but people considered me among the favorites. And for an eleven-year-old politician it's not easy to keep these king of things in perspective. It's not easy for a 58-year-old politician. 
Swollen with the encouragement of my friends, I convinced myself I had it made. My campaign slogan was, "He'll keep us out of war." I made my best friend campaign manager and together we made these cam­paign buttons and hung them with yarn around the necks of just about everybody in the school. 
I gave a speech in front of the entire school assembly and paraphrased John F. Kennedy: "Ask not what your school can do for you, but what you can do for your schoo." All the other candidates used the same line in their speeches. 
Well, I lost. I was so sure I was going to win and I lost. One of the nuns told the losing candidates that if we wanted to see how many votes we got we could come see her after school. All the other candidates went, but I didn't. I walked home alone-hurt and angry. 
"How could I lost?" I demanded from the gods. Maybe I should have campaigned among the second­and third-graders more. Tough luck. 
I vowed not to return to school the next day. How could I go back and face all the people whom I assured I was a shoe-in after I lost? This may sound like a "Brady Bunch" episode, but I swear it's true. Of course, the next day I went back and it was kind of bad. But the day after that it wasn't so bad, and the day after that I barely remembered about the election. 
Funny, isn't it? I thought my life would be traumatized by this humiliating defeat and three days later I was playing cards with the person who beat me. 
There really isn't any moral to this story. Stories that come ready-made with a moral are obnoxious. Rather, the important thing is that this experience threw into question all my conceptions about the im­portance of winning, of being number one. 
In our society, we are always under some heavy pressure to be winners, especially young people. Look how often Vince Lombardi is quoted "Winning isn't everything; it's the only thing." These are the words of a certifiable psychopath. 
Winning isn't everything. It's meaningless. The ex­perience is infinitely more important. And that's the truth. 

In school athletics, whether it's on the peewee or the college level, coaches are constantly urging their athletes to be number one. Students are encouraged to study hard so they can get into the school that is their number one choice. Socially, boys and girls are pressured by their peers to hang out with the best crowd. 
Get into the job market and people have to hustle for the top slots-whether they're stock brokers or doormen. There are always winners and there are always losers. 
Too much emphasis is put on winning and not enough is put on doing. No matter how far a person goes, no matter how many things he or she ac­complishes, there's always going to be a new, bigger challenge. I've seen number one and number one is overrated. Pretty depressing. 
Whether or not yesterday's presidential election turned into a run-off or somebody earned enough votes to win, the fact is sooner or later there will be only one winner and six losers. 
The winner deserves to be congratulated for going an effective job. Being voted student body president of a school the caliber of Notre Dame is quite an ac­complishment. The winner deserves to be very proud. 
But here's to the losers. 
To Mr. Bill Hickey CONGRATULATIONS! We tip our hats to you on your Silver Plated Achieveme·nt. 
The Observer ( l·sPS ~·N 2· Hlllll) is published Monda) throu¢1 friday ext·ept dunn~: exam and vacation periods The Observer is published by the student">fthe l·niverSJt) of Notre Dame and Saint Mat)'S College. Subscriptions may be pun·hased for JW per year ( 120 per semester) by writing The Observer. P 0 Box Q. :'llotre Dame. Indiana 
~6~%. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reprodunion rights are 
reSt"rvrd. 
Student Government 

The Observer Wednesday, March 5, 1986-page 3 
Student radio stations announce new managers amid controversy 
By MARK PANKOWSKI 
Assistant New Editor 
The new student managers for 
WVFl-AM and WSND-FM were 
elected last night, but the students 
who served as managers this year 
did not assist in the selection of 
their successors. 
Station managers Eileen Ridley 
of WSND-FM and Reginald Daniel 
of WVFl-AM resigned last week . and withdrew from their station duties after the adminstration ordered WSND-FM to stop airing a public service announcement from a homosexual group. 
Jesse Pesta was named as sta­
tionmanager of WSND-FM, and 
Sheila McDaniel as station 
manager of WVFl-AM. 
Ridley said she asked Assistant Vice President for Student Services Father Francis Cafarelli last week to allow WSND-FM to continue running the homosexual group's announcements with a disclaimer. 
The disclaimer would have said something similar to •• fhese views do not necessarily reflect the views" of the station, Cafarelli said. 
When Cararelli declined the re­quest, Ridley submitted her resignation officially, she said. 
According to Cafarelli, running the disclaimers along with the an­nouncement would have created controversy just by their presence. The disclaimers also would have drawn additional attention to the announcements, he said. 
-~= 
You're the man in charge. handle it. Because the Navy the management and technical get the job done. 
Thirty men report to you. 
Although Ridley and Daniel's resignations became effective Fri­day, the station managers had stop­ped performing their duties two weeks ago after Cafarelli informed Ridley of the ban of the an­nouncements from the Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
"I resigned becasue I felt that not airing the PSA (public service an­nouncement) was a form of censor­ship," said Ridley . 
Cararelli, however, said the issue of censorship "is not a valid point in this particular matter." 
He said University ad­ministrators banned the group's an­nouncements because "there has to be some concern for the interests of the institution relative to what goes out as part of our programming." 
According to Ridley, "It (the an­nouncement's ban) was contrary to what I think a public station is sup­posed to do, that it serve the public. 
"In other words, WSND con­siders itself, professes and defines itself as a public service station, and as such, has an obligation to the public," she said. 
Public service announcements, which are aired free of charge, par­tially fulfill that obligation, she said. 
Although adminstrators original­ly banned the announcement only on WSND-FM, Cafarelli said he later told Daniel not to air the an­nouncement on WVFI-AM. 
And can 
Daniel stated in his Feb. 28 resignation that "if they (WVFI­AM and WSND-FM) are meant to be Catholic or University stations then they need to be run as such and student managers aren't ap­propriate." 
"It has always been my conten­tion that this is not what either of the stations were meant to be . . . the resignation continued. 
Repeated calls to Daniel last night went unanswered. 
Ridley said that although her resignation hurt WSND-AM, re­maining with the station after the administration's decision would have hurt WSND-FM more. 
"I felt that someone had to stand up for the station and the principles involved." This includes here right as station manager to determine what is aired on WSND-FM, she said. 
Other executive board positions announced last night were Bill Her­zog as executive news director, Frank Mastro as executive sports director, Tim Mulrooney as pro­duction director and Mike Thesing as chief engineer. 
Cafarelli said he would like to meet with the new executive board soon to discuss such matters as the stations' finances and WVFI-AM's transmitting system but not the an­nouncement's ban. 
do includes the care and responsibility A Navy representative ••ill be at the for millions of dollars worth of 
Government Career Fair on March 6, 1986.
sophisticated equipment. 
Plan to drop by to discuss options which At age 22 you can be a leader in the 
are available to you.

Navy. With all the decision-making 
Or, you may call ahead for additional 
authority you need to help you match up 
information, toll-free, at: 
to your responsibility. 
l-800-382-9ll04 
NAVV OFFICER PROGRAMS TAKE CHARGE of YOUR CAREER. 
tqu The rewards match up too. A solid has '\\iven you 
starting salary of $19,200 with regulartraining to 
promotions and increases. Responst·bility and rewards. It's the 
And what you way you measure success in the Navy. 

Counseling follows LeMans baby incident 
By MARILYN BENCHIK 
StaffReporter 
Saint Mary's College officials are working to counsel students and answer their questions con­cerning the stillborn baby found last Saturday in LeMans Hall, according to Pat Rissmeyer, director of Residence Life and Housing. 
"Administrators at Saint Mary's College are respecting the privacy of the mother and her stillborn child while respon­ding to the general student population," said Rissmeyer. 
She said all Saint Mary's resi­dent assistants have had section meetings to answer students' questions individually. 
Off Campus Advisors are also trying to talk to people in­dividually, according to Rissmeyer. "In this way we are able to reach the entire student body," she said. 
"Some of the main concerns that students have are questions that deal with how the girl is do­ing. was the baby stillborn, and was the child baptized. The answer to that last question is yes," Rissmeyer said. 
"Our very initial concern was to work with the students who lived in the section where the girl lived and the incident occurred. There was a prayer service for the mother . and child Sunday night for students living in the section," she said. 
She added that many people have had varied reactions to a death in the community. 
"We are trying to provide an opportunity for students to talk about the incident. Students are free to talk to counselors at Career and Counseling and at Campus Ministry." 
"The entire community must remember not to judge people. The job of a Christian com­munity is to offer support to those who need it," she said. 
Mary Feeley, director of Campus Ministry, said, "The needs of the student body have certainly changed because some students are realizing their own vulnerabilities concerning this issue." 

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Special Student I Youth Fares to 

SCANDINAVIA 
On Scheduled Airlines! 
The inexpensive way to get to Scandinavia and other destinations in Europe, Asia, Africa and the Middle East. 
Winter Rates to Scandinavia 
New York to Copenhagen, Oslo, Stockholm from $240 one way, $400 roundtrip New York to Helsinki from $270 one way Chicago to Copenhagen from $240 one way, $400 roundtrip Chicago to Oslo, Stockholm, Helsinki from $280 one way, $480 roundtrip and tours designed especially for students to the 
SOVIET UNION 
For Information Call: 
WHOLE WORLD TRAVEL 
Youth and student travel experts for over a decade 17 E. 45th St., New York, NY 10017 (212) 986-9470 

Summer Fares Now Available! 

-~--~--------~--­
The Observer Wednesday, March 5, 1986 -page 4 


Student constitution debated once again 
By ALEX PELTZER 
Copy Editor 

Yesterday, while students were placing their votes for the referendum on the proposed stu­dent government constitution, the Hall Presidents' council discuss yet another constitution. 
Because the proposed con­stitution received only 53 per­cent of yesterday's referendum vote -short of the two-thirds vote needed -this new pro­posal now can be voted on the HPC. The Council will meet tomorrow at 6:30 p.m. to vote on the new proposal. 
The latest constitution pro­posal, brought to the Student Senate Monday night by former Judicial Council member Laura McKnight, was signed by more than 1,300 students, approx­imately 18 percent of the student body. This qualifies it as a stu­dent body proposal. 
There was much question last night, however, as to whether the HPC could adopt the latest constitution proposal. The argu­ment was about the fact that there is no provision in the pre­sent constitution for approval of a student body proposal. 
Student Body President Bill Healy said last night, however, that the latest constitution pro­posal should be considered a proposal from the senate. He said the proposal was brought to the senate and the senate is now presenting it to the HPC. 




(!i!ee~~l
(The Boss with the Sauce) proudly presents 

Thus, under Rule 2 of the pre­sent constitution, the HPC may approve the latest constitution proposal at the meeting tomor­row, Healy said. Rule 2 states that the HPC, through a two­thirds vote of its members, may approve a proposal made by the senate. 
However, according to Maher Mouasher, chairman .of Om­budsman, the student petition is not a senate proposal because it was not passed by two-thirds of the student senate. Therefore the petition cannot be adopted by the HPC under Rule 2. 
Kevin Howard, HPC chair­man, said the council should be discussing the latest constitution proposal instead of worrying about its legality. 
"It is our duty to vote on it, yes or no, and let Judicial Coun­cil decide on the legality of it," said Howard. 
Judicial Council Coordinator Karen Ingwersen refused to comment on the matter last night. 
Among other changes, the latest constitution proposal eliminates the senate as a governmental body. Five elected senators would remain, however, and would serve on the Campus Life Council, instead of having their own structure. 
Also, the HPC would be in­volved in the amendment pro­cedure, unlike in the proposal voted on yesterday. 

Vote 
continued from page 1 
now. We're going to campaign very hard Wednesday," he said. 
Montanaro, Switek's n,mning mate, said that "20 percent of the people made a statement with their vote today (Tuesday). We're anx­ious to see what percentage of peo­ple make the same vote Thursday. 
"It is true that we're uglier than fruit rollups and we're not afraid to admit it," he continued. 
"We're serious now," Switek said. "When we started. we weren't that serious, but now we're serious. We want to win. We think the students will appreciate a more relaxed atmosphere." 
Domagalski said his ticket was successful for two reasons. 
"The success we had today can be directly attributed to two things," said Domagalski. He noted his· ticket's "great campaign staff who worked very hard" and an "agressive style of leadership ideas. 
Referring to Domagalski and Bink, Switek added, "They ran a tough campaign. We've countered it with the only methods we knew." 
"It's important to remember everything starts with a clean slate on Thursday," Montanaro said. "We got this far having fun. We're just going to keep having fun. Ner­vousness is for the front runner." 
Added Switek, "We had a vague suspicion that we might have some success but nothing like this." 
COMING! SPRING BREAK 
. 

~~-­DO/TALL!~

j ~Condition In Booth 
iCTan in Beds iC Relax on Massage Bed 
Call277-7026 
J.M.S. PLAZA 
4609 Grape Road Mishawaka 



Divest 
continuedfrompage 1 
Trustees' May meeting. They may act on the figures as they choose." 
"The South Africa issue attracted a lot of votes. We had people specifically ask to vote in that elec­tion," said David Stephenitch, director of Ombudsman. 
"We also had a number of graduate students ask if they could vote on the divestment issue. Un­fortunately, this election was for undergraduates only," he added. 
Almost 300 more students voted on the divestment issue than voted on the revised constitution for stu­dent government. A total of 4,413 students voted on the divestment referendum, while 4,135 voted on the constitution referendum. 

Alumni-Senior Club Manager Applications 
Positions available:
* General Manager
*
Assistant Manager Food and Beverages

*
Assistant Manager Promotions and Rentals 


Deadline for applications is Friday, March 14. Interviews will be March 17 through March 19.Pick up applications in the Student Activities Office, 1st floor LaFortune. 


The Observer Wednesday, March 5, 1986 -page 5 
Love , praise of nature abound in Oliver's poetry at literary festival 
By J. C. MURPHY a result of actual experiences in tribution of the countrty of nature. Malaysia," Oliver said she used this 
News Staff 
Her trips through Asia and In­word to describe the confusion and 
A love and praise of nature donesia were the subjects of much awe associated with natural dominated the poetry of Mary of her poetry, she said. but her disasters. Oliver last night in her presentation Although man may be able to
at the Sophomore Literary Festival. 
name these forces, he has no con­"Nature's catastrophe is never trol over them, she said. Man maythe opposite of Jove," said Oliver in condemn catastrophes, but naturalher poem "Shadows." 

forces should never be seen as evil, she said. 

Her presentation concentrated on works from her American Oliver then asked the audience to A ward and Pulitzer Prize winning experience other countries of thebook "American Primitive" and her world in her poem "Fort Dixon."
new book "Dreamwork," which Upon her departure from manywill be released in May. 
foreign countries, Oliver said, she 

Oliver often becam excited while 
found herself saying "soon we will reciting her poetry. Her purpose as be home, someday we will come a poet is to spark the listener to ask again."
Mary Oliver 
how and why nature is taken for granted and often destroyed, she expedition, fishing trips and the She said she wants to return to said. Holocause. continue traveling because it is a 
She gave short backgrounds of "Shadows" was written while necessary part of life. At the same the poems before reading them, ex­Oliver was in Malaysia, she said. time, however, Oliver said we also plaining their relevance to the au­After saying that the word must look in our own backyards to dience. Much of her work came as "amok" was "the only literary con-see all the world has to offer. 
Student leads parade with luck of Irish 
By CLIFF STEVENS 
News Staff 
The luck of the Irish must be with Erin Brennan. 
Brennan, a Saint Mary's sophomore, will be the queen in Chicago's St. Patrick's Day parade this year. She was chosen last Friday night. 
Her duties began this morning with a bagpipe procession into Chicago City Hall for a photo session with the mayor. 
"I was shocked because it was such a big contest and I got that far," she said. 
Brennan, a Bridgeport, Il­linois resident, said photographs and names were the criteria for selection of the 188 finalists from the pool of approximately 1,200 Chicago area applicants. 
"If you're Irish, they could pick you," she said. "If you're not Irish. you'rt out." 
Brennan, whose father is Irish, said the final selection was based on appearance. She said 30 Cbicago businessmen, politi­cians, and lawyers judged the final contest. 
Her prizes included a paid vacation for two to Ireland and $5,000 worth of other prizes. 
This was Brennan's third year entering the contest. Last year, she was on the queen's court. "my dad has always entered me because his nieces have been in it before," she said. 
"My mom and my dad are just extremely proud." Brennan added. 
"A lot of people that I just know vaguely are all saying con­gratulations, but my close friends are giving me guff about the whole thing and teasing me to every end." she said. 





SENIOR 
Thursday Night
COCKTAIL PARTY BE THERE! 
--------~.-----------~-----~­
~i~~~_<>__i_ll__t_________________w_edn-esd~ey,_Ma-rch~5,_198-6--pag-e6 
'Opus' tries to put the fun back into ND elections 
We are Opus. Our friends have been ask­ing us why we have been flagging tests and coming home as the football team leaves for their morning practice just to write "From the Slush Up -a Penguin's Perspective of the Notre Dame elections." Yes, why. For fun 
Joanie Cahill & Karen Ingwersen a visit from the penguin 
(what we would like to say isn't printable but we think you've got the idea.) We both know how serious and intense things get around here during election time. We just hoped to lighten the mood and bring some fun to elec­tions this year. Hopefully we. succeeded in making people laugh and in making the can­didates take themselves a little less seriously. 
We consciously decided at the beginning not to make this a slanderous project. We abused everyone liberally -and everyone got abused. We would like to commend the can­didates for their good sportsmanship and for sharing their ability to laugh at themselves with all of us. We know that one of the can­didates has been offended by Opus. We offer our sincerest apologies -it was all done in fun. 
Meanwhile, in the last few days Opus has had a hard time waddling through all of the political mud. After all, that's why we wrote Opus in the first place -to enjoy the elections without fighting the mudslinging. We've heard rumors flying about candidates skir­ting election rules and even attacking Opus. 
A student government office shouldn't mean that much to anyone. We know it's not worth that much. Tell us please, do elections really have to be like this? 
That's why we wrote from a Bloom Coun­ty perspective. Elections seem to be more fun -and a lot less petty -down there. From a personal experience we know that elections here do get incredibly petty. Perhaps there shouldn't be any election rules, except a spending limit. It certainly would prevent the OBUD election committee from making the focus of elections the rules ihemselves in­stead of the candidates. And maybe ... just maybe ... it would allow the candidates to concentrate on real issues -and not on their political skills. 
There comes a point when you have to say let's cut out the backstabbing and the nonsense and remember that we are all human beings who deserve respect from each other. This should be especially true in what is supposed to be a Christian community. 
We hope that you have enjoyed Opus as much as we have enjoyed writing it. Bill the Cat says that a little more respect for each other might make things a lot more fun -all the time. And y'all know how Opus feels about fun! 
Same penguin time -same penguin place next year (or maybe next week) for more fun and abuse. We're going back to Bloom County now. 
Joanie Cahill andKaren Ingwersen are two slightly subversive student government types and neither one is an English major. 


Hesburgh's successor must guide in Assisian way 
The last time I visited St. Peter's, Rome, it was in the company of a professor of an­thropology. What a pleasure it was to have along someone who could cast a professional eye over the place and also cut through the complex reactions of awe and discomfort that St. Peter's elicits in Catholics like me. My anthropologist companion proceeded to place the building, as artifact, in a cultural context. St. Peter's, he said, is about power; it is designed to intimidate. 
Ann Pettifer 
guest column 
A few days later, clutching privileged pink tickets provided by our Franciscan hosts (the tickets entitled us to front-row seats and a handshake from the Pope), we attended the Wednesday morning audience. The crowd was huge; as the Pope processed slowly down the aisle, the atmosphere was dithyrambic: people shrieked, pawed the air in vain efforts to touch him implored and ejaculated pieties and litanies of praise. Again the intrepid anthropologist's commen­tary was indispensable. 
The pomp and circumstance of monarchy, he observed, does not vary much from culture to culture. Hierarchical authority is maintained by much the same fneans in a Yoruba, British or Roman court. Drawing on his ethological studies, he said, too, that alpha males among silver-backed gorillas in the animal kingdom use comparable techni­ques to subdue rivals. 
Before we left Italy, our party made a pilgrimage to Assisi. The distance we travell­ed from Rome was much more than physical. The styles of Catholicism were palpably different. Assisi provoked those questions about commitment to the devout life which Rome's majesty manages to obscure. 
I confess to having an agenda for recalling these experiences. I wish to raise the issue of succession at Notre Dame. For three decades now, the University has been developing in the St. Peter's tradition. It is not too fanciful to see Father Hesburgh as a Renaissance figure -a Doge of Venice or a Medici prelate comes to mind -he has that sort of dowments; under his leadership Notre Dame has enjoyed a long period of heady growth. 
luster,  energy  and  ease  with  power.  His  
talents  have  produced  handsome  en- 
Doonesbury  

However, institutions must be supple and prescient enough to know when to adapt if they are not be overtaken by the laws of en­tropy. Discussion on how to achieve more community, consultation and equality at the University, for example, is a matter of some urgency. To put it bluntly, Hesburgh's suc­cessor will have to consider guiding Notre Dame in a more Assisian direction. 
Itis a pity that students, alumni and facul­ty will not be canvassed about the selection of the next president. This, sadly, in in­evitable given the clericalism that is the unac­ceptable face of Notre Dame. In a struggle to gain a veto for the Academic Council on top administrative appointments -a struggle which he lost -Professor Goerner, a distinguished teacher from the government department, likened the University to a col­onial territory where the subjects (natives) are disenfranchised. The year was 1974. Things have not changed much. 
Another curious episode from the recent past illustrates the way things are done at Notre Dame. From 1971 to 1978 Father James Burtchaell was provost. In what seem­ed like an overnight putsch, he was gone; no explanation was given to the community for his sudden departure. Idle speculation abounded for a while, but like "good Ger­mans" we had learned not to question the authorities and the fait accompli was ac­cepted. 
Only last year, while reading the preface to Burtchaell's book "Rachael Weeping," did I discover what may be a clue to that mysterious exit. John D. Rockefeller Ill, who held strong opinions on population con­trol, had accused the Catholic Church of obscurantism on this issue. Burtchaell, who has a knight's errant relationship with the Church, took Rockefeller on in Newsweek. Fur flew. It is likely that because of his friendship with David Rockefeller, Hesburgh was displeased with this con­tretemps. My hunch is that this incident was not unconnected to Burtchaell's departure. 
When I was an undergraduate at Notre Dame, the "three B's," Burtchaell, Burrell and Bartell were the names usually bruited in any discussion of the succession. I am puzzl­ed by the fact that these contenders seem to have slipped into the background. Burt­chaell, in spite of an irritating seigniorial style, is an accomplished theologian with a 

7D 8tHONEST, I'VE N~VER 5WJON8 Of MR. f3A5TUI(X){l's FILMS, fJtJTI'M 51/R&He'S J1JSTt:8.1001/SIN 7HEM. I'M 70UJ HE Pf?I).JEC{S R/350/..Ve, 
'\, ANCJ7HAT'5 
considerable reputation outside the Universi­ty. I have always admired his Christology. Burtchaell is a genuine intellectual, again with a reputation which is not confined to Notre Dame circles. His work on Islam has made him sensitive to ecumenical issues and his way of life is agreeably simple. Bartell's qualifications include presidential experience (Stonehill College) and work at H.E.W. dur­ing the Carter administration. His grasp of Latin American issues gives him an ex­perience that would be invaluable in any president of a prominent, North American Catholic university. 
What I fear most is the appointment of an apparatchik. It could happen. Men who have been hugely successful in a top job (and those around them), sometimes have an un­conscious desire to be followed by a non­entity. Consider what happened in the case of Winston Churchill. His successor, Sir An­tony Eden, was by no means the best talent on offer in the Tory Party at the time. Poor Sir Antony fell at the first hurdle, collapsing into a nervous heap during the 1956 Suez crisis. 
~otre Dame under an unimaginative, clencal bureaucrat could soon dissipate its potential to develop into a more secure, con­fident and egalitarian community, commit­ted to producing well-educated, sturdy Christians for service in our polarized and dangerous world. 
Ann Pettifer is a Notre Dame alumna. 


P.O. Box Q 
Healy uses publication to attack his enemies 
Dear Editor: 
Bill Healy obviously felt it was time to pat himself on the back when he came up with the idea for the latest student government publication, "We The People." I suppose that makes sense, since no one else was going to do it, except maybe Father Theodore Hesburgh. 
The interview with Healy was very enlightening, but who was asking the ques­tions? I can only assume Healy, knowing himself above all others, felt that he was the only person qualified to conduct the inter­view. Healy uses this interview, as well as the entire publicaton, to attack certain groups and organizations that have caused him problems throughout the year. 
For example, contrary to what Healy in­sinuates, the recall was an independent ef­fort, by several students, not a product of the Anti-Apartheid Network. Doesn't he even know the people who wanted him thrown out of office? I guess there were too many to know them all personally. He also uses this interview to harp on his personal feeling about The Observer's financial statements. We all know how student government feels on this matter. Healy should refrain from using student govern­ment funds to print his personal accusations. 
Garry Trudeau 
UH.. MJ, [)£f/CfT5. OH, /Jf:AR,/5 TH/5 
A I.AWANPOI?I?tR. 
CAMPAIGN? 
---I 
I was also pleased to see that "We The People had already determined the outcome of the student referendum before the students went through the pains of voting themselves. In addition, t.he poll in this publication that determines that students favor investment in South Africa should suf­ficiently sway the 18.8 percent No-Opinion votes to the "right" choice. I hope Healy remembered to mail a copy of "We The Peo­ple" to each of the trustees so that they can be properly informed of developments in the divestment issue. 
I won't bother to continue. A publication concerning the year in review is a good idea. The Year According To Bill Healy is a waste of the paper it was printed on. 
LisaDold Notre Dame student 
The Viewpoint Department 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 
46556 
Quote of the day 

"Always behave like a duck -keep calm and unruffled on the surface but paddle like the devil underneath." 
Jacob Braude 

"ievvP-_o_i~n~t_________________________________________________w_e_d_n_es_da_y_,M__ar_c_h_s,_t_98_6_-~Pa~g--e7 
Concept of the Tao expresses truths about Christ 
"In the beginning was the Tao, and the Tao was with God, and the Tao was God." 
... And so opens the Gospel according to St. John, as it has appeared in Bibles prepared for the Chinese. In your English translation it reads: "In the beginning was the Word, ...."The original Greek term, logos, translates most simply as "Word" but, in fact, conveys a number of truths: that Jesus Christ is "Meaning," "Utterance," "Cause," "Reason," "Principle." Good theology. Yet, the word-concept Tao ex­presses closely-related truths about Christ and His gospel that we, as well as the Chinese, might do well to know and respond to. 
David K. Seid 
guest column 

Tao means something like "Natural Law" or "The Way." Or better yet, "The Way of Harmony." The first Christians, before they were ever called by that name, were iden­tified as "followers of the Way." (Acts 9:2, 
24: 14). As we shall see, the principles of the Kingdom preached by the Prince of Peace are the principles of "The Way of Har­mony." 
One great truth conveyed by the Tao of Christ is that (s)he who would discover goodness must acquiesce to the way of yielding and renounce the way of striving. For there is but one sin; and there is but one good. The one sin is the will to power (Nietsche; Satan; "the world"). The one good is harmony with God (cosmic law; Tao; ap­preciation of unblemished being). The Tao Te Chin reads: "When the Tao is absent from the universe, the horses haul manure. When the Tao is absent from the universe, war horses are bred outside the city. There is no greater sin than desire, no greater curse than discontent, no greater misfortune than wanting something for oneself." In another place we read: "The highest good is like water. Water gives life to the 10 thousand things and does not strive. It flows in places men reject and so is like the Tao." In the same vein, but completing the thought, the Apostle Paul declares: "Your attitude should be the same as that of Christ Jesus: Who, be­ing in very nature God, did not consider equality with God something to be grasped, but made himself nothing, taking the very nature of a servant, being made in human likeness, and being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself and became obe­dient to death -even death on a cross! Therefore God exalted him above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow . . . and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord." (Phil. 2:5-11). 
There are certain wordly philosophers and secularly-minded humanists who would vehemently reject the Way of Harmony as demeaning to the human spirit. And, indeed, they are profound thinkers -in their own unpopular way. In truth, as Taoism il­luminates, all realities exist in (bi-)polarity. For every Yin there is a complementary Yang. Comprehending any given reality re­quires not only a recognition of each polarity and how they exist in natural tension but also how it is imbalance -not a polar quality in itself -that results in evil. The truth that sin is disharmony is not alien to the Catholic mind as the Church has always defined heresy as taking one part of a truth and em­phasizing and exaggerating that one part as if it were and to near exclusion of the whole. Hence, one can best appreciate a philosopher like Nietzche -who ranted and raved against Christianity as effeminate, weak, life-denying, etc. -for providing a valuable critique of what happens when there is too much Yin and too little Yang. Unfortunate­ly, Yang-aholics like Nietzche are psychologically incapable of recognizing their own disease. Worse still, Nietzche, looking only in one direction with only one eye, and thus lacking depth perception, never really caught on as to how radical Christianity really is. He never saw the other half (the Yang aspect of Christianity) and could only perceive a caricature of the half (the Yin aspect of Christianity isolated from its harmonized context) he cared to see. Any Christian who has walked long with the Lord can bear witness that -because He is the Great Lover -God is the Great Iconoclast, the Despoiler of Illusions, the One who for­bids the denial of death and holds forth the spectre of life to the unregenerate soul. 
You see, as long as we are simplistically conscious or rigidly Yang-conscious, we en­cumber our lives with stupidity. Milton's Lucifer ("Better to reign in hell than to serve in heaven") comes to mind as an example of a creature that could only think in terms of "dominate or be dominated." The psychopathology of the chaotic/unbalanced mind precludes insight into how submission 

·. 
STAIRWA~ TO HE4VEN 

P 0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer IS the independent newspap8f published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the adm1n1strat1on of 81lh8f lnstitt.tion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­Sible. Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opimon ot a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­tanes, let18f"S and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. IS encouraged. 
to the will of the Other is necessary to and be pities are nominal "Christians" and cer­
existentially validating to the authentic love tain types of theological liberals (often ac­
relationship. To give another illustration, the tivistic and anti-contemplative) who strive to 
Yang-mind identifies humility with humilia­synthesize the two polarities but fail 
tion and self-denigration, and it confuses miserably. They say God is both 
dignity with pride and achievement. Yet, the transcendent and imminent. In practice, 
sage, the Chinese archetype of the Christian however, they are functional atheists whose 
saint, is a humble being who knows no decision-making processes omit serious 
hatred against self or anyone else, and who, prayer and acts of faith and who serve as un­
despising vain strivings, possesses an un­witting pawns of secular (blind Yinist or 
mistakable aura of dignity. cruel Yangist) ideologies. God is most cer­
To speak of saints and sages brings us to a tainly transcendent to them; He's out there 
discussion of what Gestalt psychologists -in the cold. God is most assuredly immi­
refer to as "field theory." In Taoist nent, they add, because they can see the face 
phraseology: "The Whole is greater than the of God in every human being. In actuality, 
sum of its parts." In Western Romantic they have only scratched the surface: they see 
Christianese: "The reconciliation of op­god, but not the true and living God. It takes 
posites." In (Theistic) Existentialist terms, it much more than a mechanical application of 
is the end of alienation and the restoration of a Taoist principle to know God and to 
the fragmented shards of our broken lives. recognize Him both apart from and yet 
When the Whole is experienced, and not somehow in His creation. God can only be 
merely vaguely conceived cognitively, known by Self-disclosure. GRACE! God is 
momentary transcendence is attained. The transcendent; God is imminent. But God is 
connectedness of all things and the unity of much more than the lifeless sum of two polar 
all life become apparent at the deepest in­attributes, for God is Person! 
tuitive levels. Permanent transcendence (the What can a person do, then, that God 
life eternal that begins in the here-and-now might become real in his/her life? One thing 
and that progresses toward the future glory), only. Radical openness to the will of God. 
however, is an act of saving grace beyond the FAITH! (John 8:12-32). Oh! There's that 
grasp of mere technique or any humanly­issue about self-autonomy again isn't it? 
initiated activity or non-activity. Permanent Then consider this. Self-autonomy is a Yang 
transcendence is essentially Christ­principle; too much of it means disastrous 
consciousness and is the free gift of God to individualism, an insensitive, demeaning, 
the responsive soul. (l Cor. 1:18-2: 14). In cowardly conformity. Too full of self; too 
Biblical language, it is to be "born again." little of self. The solution? Harmonized 
(John 3:1-8). union: to be the ultimate non-conformist by 
To illustrate, let us speak of the nature of becoming the ultimate conformist! A saint .. 
God. Is God Transcendent Being or Immi­. true self (de imago Dei) revealed through 
nent Being? Yin/Yang dichotomizers radical yielding to Perfect and Perfecting 
(remember Yin and Yang are polarities not Love. 
<jichotomies) end up being lonely Deists or David K. Seid is a graduate student in 
befuddled Pantheists. But perhaps most to psychology at Notre Dame. 

Tribune's insensitivity was extremely tactless 
Students are still talking about the dead I tried to think of some rational reason baby recently found in a LeMans trash can why they gave this information. One friend last Friday. There exists a number of ques­told me they may have given it because there tions about this incident. What kind of ac­was a police investigation into the matter. tion, if any, did the Notre Dame/Saint Still, I do not believe she has been charged Mary's community place on this girl to in­with any crime. Another friend who was also fluence her actions? Was this community enraged called the South Bend Tribune. He truly responsive to her needs during this was told that they print names when the per­dilemma in her life? I believe these questions son involved lives in their subscription area. are important and should be looked into by If this is in fact their policy, I find it hard to both administrations, regardless of the fact believe that it would be so rigid. More flex­that this particular incident occurred at Saint ibility is needed in situations which deal with Mary's. Still, I feel compelled to discuss the the lives of hUman beings. question of good responsible journalism. As a sophomore from South Bend, I have 
never been ashamed of my city, despite the 
jokes of fellow students. However, the
Brian Owsley 
tactless sensationalism of the South Bend Tribune's article has caused me shame. I am embarrassed to think a newspaper I grew up
guest column 

reading would place more importance on 
selling newspapers than the people who buy 
First, I would like to congratulate The them. Observer on a tactful, well done story. Their Therefore, I propose to all students who article was helpful in that it ended the flood feel the same as I do, that they write to the of rumors going around. Plus I feel a story Tribune expressing their thoughts. Also like this one is important to The Observer's those students who subscribe to the South students. The article is a bold step for a Bend Tribune, please cancel your paper that tends to shy away from stories subscription. The campus is serviced by a like student rapes. number of good, reputable papers (New 
At the opposite end of the spectrum, I York Times or Chicago Tribune). Please found myself in dismay and disgust at the ar­help prevent irresponsible journalism. The ticle Saturday morning in the South Bend victim of insensitivity may be a friend; if not Tribune. They not only gave the girl's name this time, maybe the next. but her local address. I feel giving this type of information falls nowhere under the Brian Owsley is a sophomore in the Col­guidelines of responsible journalism. lege ofArts and Letters. 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton News Editor ............................................. Frank Lipo News Editor ................................... Dan McCullou11J Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb Accent Editor .........................................Mary Healy Viewpoint Editor............................ . ... Joe Murphy Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Wolf 
Operations Board 
Business Manager...................... David Stephenitch Controller............................. William J. Highducheck Advertising Manager ..............................Jim Hagan Advertising Manager ................... Anne M. Culligan Systems Manager ......................... Mark B. Johnson Production Manager....................... John A. Men nell 
Photography Manager ........... Tripp Baltz 
Founded November 3, 1966 
r 
r 
r r r 
r 
r 
Accent 




Non-Catholics at ND/SMC 
ing,'' Bowman said. "Outside ac­tions don't make you a Catholic.
Protestants 
It's the substance underneath which counts."
MARY JACOBY 

an "overemphasis on Catholicism As a Lutheran, Noble said she
assistant features editor 

and not enough on Christianity!' finds "no real difference" between "Sometimes I see Catholics as be­the mass at her church and theWhat's it like being part of an ing more self-righteous than they Catholic Mass. HistoricallyAmerican majority all one's life, 
deserve to be,'' Bowman said.
only to enter college and have the Lutheransim is very close to situation turned completey Bowman said she thinks that many Catholicism, being the first Protes­Catholics may feel superior becasue tant religion to form from a break
around? 
they have a specific set of rules to with the Catholic Church. 
Ask any Protestant at Notre follow. When they are faithful to "We just don't have a hierarchyDame or Saint Mary's. He or she such practices as attending weekly in the church, no saints and onlywill know. 
Mass, she said, they may also feel two sacraments,'' Noble said.
"Sometimes I feel like I'm the on­
they have done more than a Protes­While Catholics have sevenly Protestant on campus," tant, whose religion does not re­sacraments, the Lutheran churchsaid sophomore Rod Brown, a 
Baptist. Brown, who is both black quire weekly attendance at church only has the sacraments of baptism and Baptist, said he feels somewhat services. and the Lord's supper, or Commu­
"I don't really understand the
alienated at the University because nion as Catholics term it. Marriage many of Notre Dame's specifically rules of the Church, but I am a is not a holy sacrament in any Pro­Christian," Bowman said. She cites testant denomination. 
Catholic customs are foreign to some of her Catholic friends' belief Although Bowman and Noble at­him. 
that a non-Catholic should not be tend masses sometimes on campus,"I have yet to find out what 
Notre Dame defines as a Catholic allowed to take Communion during Brown does not. "People say I have a Catholic Mass. "I feel I should be a fear of going to Mass,'' he jokes. 
education.... I don't really know 
able to take Communion when I a
what people mean by that," Brown But Brown does attend weekly
feel I deserve it," Bowman said. prayer meeting at the Bulla Shedsaid, explaining that whereas She attends Mass regularly on cam­with the Baptist Student Union.
Catholics have parochial schools 
pus with friends, although she does 
and universities for their religion, "We pray together for things rang­Baptists do not, unless it's a "Bible not attend Methodist services off ing from health problems tp tests,'' college." campus. he said. Bible study is also a part of Saint Mary's junior Wendy No­
"I just hear that phrase, 'Catholic the weekly BSU meetings.
ble, a Lutheran, also has come up
education,' all the time,'' Brown While Protestants may feel 
against the problem of taking Com­strange suddenly being a minoritysaid. "And to me, I think of the munion. "I don't think anybody on Notre Dame and Saint Mary'sstudy of the catechism and all." 

' can telJ me I can't (take Commu­campuses, Brown, Bowman and nion)," Noble said. She solved the Noble agree that it's a good ex­problem by talking with a priest, perience to learn how another who told her that it would be all religion operates. "I like going to a right to take Communion if she felt LCatholic school because I learn a\ she wanted it. different point of view," Noble 
"I just like having the choice left said. up to me what I want to believe in,'' Although neither the Registrar's Noble said. She said one major dif­Office or University Ministry has ference between Lutheranism and any specific figures concerning the 
Catholicism -the rigid structure number of Protestants on campus, of the Church and its rules -might Protestant students are keenlymake her "afraid" if she were a aware that they are now in new ter­
Catholic of believing in something ritory. which contradicts official Church "If you're Protestant, it's cool. doctrine. But if you're Catholic, it's great," 
In fact, it is the Catholic Brown said, explaining how Church's hierarchical structure and Catholics seem to treat other Rod Brown emphasis on ceremony which seems students with respect to religion. 
Heidi Bowman, a Saint Mary's strangest to many Protestants. And unless all Catholic Notre junior and Methodist, echoed the Brown said that the first time he Dame and Saint Mary's students same sentiment that the Catholic was required to stand up and pray are planning on JOmmg the Church and its customs appear the Our Father before a class ''real­seminary or convent after gradua­somewhat strange to the outsider. ly threw" him. Baptist churches, he tion, it might be good to try to gain "As a little kid, I was afraid of says, "are a lot looser and not near­an understanding now of how it Catholicism," Bowman said. "The ly as structured. There's not a lot of feels to be isolated by" religion, holy water and all that scared me." standing up and sitting down." because away from the golden 
As a student at Saint Mary's, "Sometimes there's an overem­dome America's a Protestant ma­Bowman said she sometimes sees phasis on structure and not mean-jority. 

Students and other Moslems pray at the weekly 


Moslems 
CHARLES LOBDELL 
features writer 

Mention the word "Islam" to your hypothetical man on the street and the word terrorism may automatically spring into his mind. Media coverage sometimes gives the impression that terrorism is an essential part of the Islamic faith. Wrong. 
Abdelkader Abdelkader and Shamusdin Tareq Muslim graduate economic students at Notre Dame, said they are frustrated about the news media and its protrayal of the Middle East and Islam. 
The biggest problem is the con­stant use in the media of the phrase "Moslem terrorist,'' as if the two were one work, said Abdelkader. The media has a habit of only showing one view of the Islamic world, the one of guns and death, he added. 
There is another world, the world of the Koran, the Moslem holy book, in which its five elements of faith are specified. 
The first is the belief in the oneness of God or "Allah." The Koran defines it as, "Say! He is God, the one and only. God the Eternal, Absolute. He begets not, nor is he begotten. And there is none like unto him." 
"To believe in the oneness of God means to obey Him and disregard all orders to disobey Him," added Abdelkader. 
Secondly, the Moslems believe in the other holy books that Allah has revelaed to his prohpets. These books include the Jewish and Christian bible. Moslems believe that the Koran, though, is the only holy book still in its pure form, and thus it is the true word of God, ac­cording to Abdelkader. 
The thrid belief is in all the pro­phets. As with the books, Jewish and Christian prophets are includ­ed in that belief. Mohammed is the last prophet and the Koran is the message revealed to him by Allah, 

Abdelkader Abdelkader. 

said Tareq. Again, the belief is that while Allah has revealed messages before, the one revealed to Moham­med is the only message still left in the pure form. 
Angels serve as mediators between men and Allah, according to Moslem faith. They carry His Word and reveal it to the prophets. The Moslem belief in the angels centers around the characteristics of infallibility and uncorruptibility that the angels supposedly possess. 
The last belief is in the Day of Judgement. "He will give the true believers their due reward in the Paradise and He will punish the disbelievers in Hell,'' said Tareq. "Because many oppressors die before they get their punishment and many oppressed people die before they get their just right, the hereafter, for the Moslems, is the perios during which each will get his just reward." 
The Islamic definition of faith is composed of three elements, accor­ding to Abdelkader. "It is a creed in the elements, according to Abdelkader. "It is a creed in the heart, it is a word said by the tongue, and it is a practice in the behavior." 
"Faith means the sincerity of Allah in the worship. A believer 
. does something in the cause of 
Allah because he loves it, because 
he is satisfied by it, and not because 
he wants to show off or gain any 
personal benefits." 
"It is your tongue that expresses 
your beliefs and thoughts to others. 
You may know the truth, but this 
truth will stay unknown to the 
others until you tell them about it 
by yourtongue." 
Abdelkader further stated, "You 
need to practice what you believe in 
your heart and what you say to 
others by the tongue. The practice 
is the true test of your faith." 
There are over 20 Moslem 
students on campus and over 60 
families in the area. Moslem ser­
vices are held every Friday at Bulla 
Shed on Bulla Street (between the 
d-2 and c-2 parking lots) at 12:30 
p.m., with a discussion session that 
evening at 8. Arabic lessons are 
held every week at the community 
center on Cripe street. And once a 
month the families get together for 
a social gathering and prayer. 

~ -~-------~---~ -~ 
Wednesday, March 5, 1986 -page 8 -9 


Other faiths bring diversity to religious life on campus 

Hindus, Buddhists and Druze 
"Generally for Hindus, they can 
Although there are other CAROLINE M. GILLESPIE Lebanese students at Notre Dame,
form their own relationship with features writer their religion as much as they Bualuan is the only Druze on cam­
want," Madhu said. pus."It's a personal relationship
Hindus, Buddhists and Druze 
between an individual and any god 
here at Notre Dame? "Although people might find it
the individual chooses." 
On a campus where about 96 per­strange that I'm at a Catholic
Through the India organization
cent of the students are Catholic, university, on the contrary, I'm 
on campus, the Maliks have
there are many different faiths that proud of it," said Bualuan. 
become acQuainted with nth,.r
make up the four percent religious 
minority. 
Manju Malik and her twin sister Madhu are two juniors from Japan. The Maliks were born in In­dia and although they don't prac­tice their religion, they are Hindus. 
"I'm a Hindu but I don't believe in any god," Manju said. "I believe in the one force, I believe that there is something up there but I can't point to one supreme being." 
Basically, Hinduism is polytheistic but with a monistic 
. s trend. There is one force called Brahman with three main gods: the 
Manju and Madhu Malik 
Creator, the Preserver and the 
Destroyer. Besides these three, 
students from India. However,
Hindus have gods for just about "I look more at Notre Dame
there is no Hindu organization and 
The Observer /Tripp Baltz everything. There is a sun god and academically than I do as a 
~ervices held in the Bulla Shed. they don't practice Hinduism Catholic university." 
a moon god, for example. 
together. 
Bualuan, like the Maliks, does"Personally, I don't practice but i not practice his religion. 
would expect that some of them "There is no such thing as prac­(Hindus at Notre Dame) have their ticing the Druze religion unless you own private temples and do prac­are one of the priests who is permit­tice," Manju said. 
ted to read the Book of Wisdom,"Attending a Catholic school is no he said. 
new experience for the Maliks. 
Masahide Hoshino, a juniorThey've been educated at Catholic from Japan, said that he is a Bud­schools all their lives. Yet they both dhist, but he doesn't practice. 
agreed that the strength of "When people ask me whatCatholicism here is surprising. 
religion I am, I cannot answer"I generally find the people here because in a Western sense, it to be very religious in that most (religion) has different connota­of them go to church every Sun­tions," Hoshino said. 
day," Manju said. 
According to Hoshino, Bud­"But despite the fact that we're dhists believe in life after death but not Catholic," Madhu added, they don't refer to it as heaven or"Notre Dame has provided us with hell. They call it a special Indianwonderful experiences that will stay name. While on earch, Buddhistswith us for the rest of our lives." 
have to live a good life and be good Ramzi Bualuan, a graduate stu­people.
dent studying for his Ph.D. in elec­"Buddhists don't have to practice trical engineering, is a Druze from like going to Mass, confession orLebanon. 
Eucharistic rituals," Hoshino said.
Druze, an offshoot of Islam, is "I think those are more externalmonotheistic and centers around things that help you to feel commit­the religion's Book of wisdom. Ac­ted to religion. In Eastern religions, cording to bualuan, Druze is not people practice on their own basis.
based on rituals. It is more a way of important is to
The thing har­living, mainly being good and wise. 
monize inside in order to live a hap-Students take part in a Baptist Student Union prayer meeting in the Bulla Shed. PY and peaceful life." 
~~~~~~:....:.:.::_::~~:_::::_::::..:.:::._.:::.:::::~:.:..::::.::....:.:..:.::::.:~.:..:..:...:=-==:....:.:=..:..A_cc-o-r-d-:-in-g-t-o-=sa-m--S::h:-a-p-:ir-o-,--:Je-w~i:-:sh;-st:-u-:d:-en-t-s-m-a-y-f:-ee-1:-l::ik:-e-t::-h-el When most people hear that 
says he chose Notre Dame for the H hi · B ddhi t h 'd th
associate professor of history, there proverbial needle in the haystack, os no IS a u s , e S8l , e
reasons any person should choose a fitrst esti' th k · "Ar
"xisted several vears ago a student-but they're not alone. qu on ey as 1s e you school. faculty discussion group, but In the words of Shapiro, "In the an atheist?" Then they ask "Do you

Jews 
"I did not consider my religion a Shapiro said he, like other faith family, Catholicism has long believe in life after death?" key factor in my choice of a school. members of the group, "just lost in-been considered a brother to Hoshino explained that "when I've always like Notre Dame and terest." Judaism." people ask that, they are simply ap-
ANDY BARLOW 
I've long held the Catholic Church plying their Western perspective of
features writer 

and its emphasis on a quality Nordwind said that in the past he religion. They don't even know education in the highest regard." has attended services in the South what an atheist is. An atheist
In a large group, what percen­
Bend area. believes there is no god. Buddhists
tage is considered a minority? Nord wind said he has not yet met " , f 1 d' d do have a god so we can't be
w· h I ve never rea11y e t at a 1sa ­
Twenty percent? Five percent? any other Jews on campus. It b f . · I' atheists."
the odds of "just running into" vantage ecause o my re1lgion. veHere at Notre Dame, there is a another Jewish student around 550 attended Catholic schools since Hoshino has attended Catholicminority group whose numbers to l, that's not too surprising. seventh grade, so I was not so schools all his life and he said life atrank below even the one percent shocked culturally as some might Notre Dame is not uncomfortablefigure. 
Faculty members enjoy a better expect," he said. for a Buddhist. Yet, he feels that ratio as there are, according to some of the people at the Universi-The Notre Dame Jewish student Cohn, "somewhere around three "I've never felt religious ty tend to look down on other 
population is currently estimated at dozen Jewish faculty members." discrimination here. I don't judge cultures. 18 -not 18 percent, but 18 Cohn's wife, Naida, said part of my friends on the basis of their "I think there are a lot of peoplestudents. 
the isolation of new Jewish religion, and I expect the same totally committed to their one students could be resolved by star-from them." religion and they think that is the 
Why are there so few? According ting a program to put them in touch The Cohos agreed. "There is no only religion," he said. to David Cohn, associate professor with Jewish faculty. This would real discrimination here. The situa-"As an outsider looking in, I feel of engineering, "There are so few ease the adjustment to their new tion could better be described as a how narrow-minded they are ­Jews here simply because there are Catholic surroundings, she said. general lack of information about they don't verbally say it but I feel 
our faith."
so few Jews here." In other words, 
With their small demographic South Bend is home to a diverse it."
the small number of Jewish representation, one might assu~e and active Jewish community, and "I have nothing against thosestudents discourages many devout the existence of a Jewish fellowship the Cohos expressed their will-people who believe in one religion,"Jews from attending the Universi­group. But there isn't one, accor-h he added. "We are outsiders. Notre
ingness to help establis contact
ty, he said. 
ding to Cohn, who cited the dif-between interested students and Dame just seems conservative ­Will Nordwind, a Jewish ficulties inherent in forming any local synagogues. Assistant Professor David Cohn the whole place is like a church." 
freshman from St. Edward's Hall, student group, such as scheduling. 

-

•
t 
t 
•l ~ 
' 
---~---~-----------------­
The Observer 



Sports Briefs 
• 

Men's and women's soccer tourneys are be­
ing organized by NV A. Interested teams should sign up at the NVA office in the ACC by Wednesday, March 12. The women's division will be an inter hall competition and a $25 team entry fee is required. The men's division will be an open tourney but the field is limited to the first 32 teams that enter. Entry fee for the men is $10 per team. For more information call NV A. -The Observer 
The ND water polo team will hold practices tonight and tomorrow from 9 to 10:30 p.m. at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. For more information call Tom O'Reilly at 283-3588. ­
The Observer 

A squash clinic will be held for beginning and novice players tonight at 7 p.m. Sign up in advance at NV A. -The Observer 
A sneaker broomball tournament will be held on Saturday, March 8 from 3:45 to 6:45p.m. at the ACC ice rink. En­try deadline for the tournament is today. Rosters with a minimum of six team members (late additions are acceptable) must be sub­mitted to NV A by the deadline. For more information call NV A. -The Observer 
The ND Rugby Club will hold a mandatory prac­tice, rain or shine, Thursday at 4 p.m. on Stepan Field. All current players should attend, as should anyone else interested in joining the club. No experience is necessary. For more information call Mark Weingartner at 272-3388. -The Observer 
An interhall baseball tournament is being organized by NV A. Interested teams should sign up at the NV A office in the ACC by Wednesday, March 12. Rosters must include at least 14 players and should be turned in with a $15 team entry fee. For more information call NV A. -The Observer 
An open squash tournament will be held by the NO Squash Club on March 14-16 as part of the Insilco National Tour­nament. Anyone interested is eligible to participate by signing up_ and paying a $5 entry fee at the ACC courts by Friday, March 7. Entry fee includes a t-shirt and a chance to win a position as a finalist in the next round of the tournament in Indianapolis, Ind. For more information, call William Mapother at 283-3451. -The Observer 
Twelve-inch softball tourneys for men, women and 
graduate departments are being organized by NV A. Interested teams shouls sign up at the NVA office in the ACC by Wednesday, March ·12. Rosters must include between 12-16 players. In the men's and women's divisions, players must all represent one hall. In the women's divisions, players must all represent one hall. In the graduate division, teams must be composed by department. For more information, call NV A. -The Observer 
~--~--~--­
-----------------------. 
Wednesday, March 5, 1986 -page 10 
ND baseball team opens spring, travels to face Hoosiers on Sunday 
Chenail and Brad Cross have the tentative nods for this Sunday's doubleheader, although Gallo plans to use as many hurlers as he can. 
"If I've got somebody out on the mound Sunday who's hot, I'm go­ing to stick with him," said Gallo. "We're going to try to win these games." 
The loss of Buster Lopes and Joe Dobosh to graduation has left the team with some holes on the pit­ching staff. Chenail, a sophomore, posted a 4-0 record with a 3.22 ERA, lowest on the staff, and is hoped to build on those numbers this season. Cross, a senior, had the second-lowest ERA (4.43) in primarily relief duty last season. 
Joining Chenail and Cross on the mound this weekend will be seniors Steve Powell and Mark Watzke. Powell had 29 strikeouts last season and finished 6-4 overall, while Wat­zke 2-2 in 1985, surrendered just 38 hits. Freshman Derek Madden, drafted by the Minnesota Twins last June, is expected to add to the Irish mound strength. Gallo is counting on some new faces to deepen the staff, and many of the freshmen have already put in some innings in the fall. 
Indiana should prove a for­midable opponent. The Hoosiers feature strong hitting and have a host of returning players. Last year's games at Jake Klein Field were rained out, and the 1984 team split a doubleheader in Bloom­ington. The Hoosiers, who like Notre Dame are playing a few games before a spring trip, had to cancel a game yesterday at home. 
Three days at DePauw will follow next week for the Irish, who will play their home opener against St. Joseph's on St. Patrick's Day. 
BUY OBSERVER 
By TERRY LYNCH 
Sports Writer 

It may not look too much like Florida right now in Indiana, but if you pay close enough attention, baseball season is just around the corner. 
The Notre Dame baseball team opens its 1986 spring season this Sunday against the Indiana Hoosiers, as the two Midwestern teams prepare to battle the elements and maybe send a message to the major leaguers in the warmer climates, telling them where real men play baseball. "We're just itching to go outside," said Irish head coach Larry Gallo, now beginning his sixth year at the team's helm. "We're going batty playing inside every day." 
Batty or not, the Irish skipper holds an attitude of "cautious op­timism" when it comes to discuss­ing his team's chances for a suc­cessful season. Gallo and the Irish will be hoping to improve on last year's 26-27-2 overall mark and an inconsistent fall campaign that left the team at 5-11. 
Sunday's doubleheader in Bloomington is just the first of many difficult games in the coming season. The 1986 schedule features five teams from the Big Ten, a spr­ing break road trip to the California-Riverside Invitational Tournament and games against Oral Roberts and Houston. 
Notre Dame will play Sunday without the services of co-captain and starting shortstop Tom Shields and starting catcher Mike McNeill. Sheilds, whose .321 batting average, 40 RBI, 125 assists and 13 stolen bases last season got him drafted by the Pittsburgh Pirates last June, will miss the season opener because of a combination of the flu and a shoulder injury. 
Shields, a senior from Devon, Penn., should be a key player in the Irish quest for a playoff berth. He and co-captain Rich Vanthournout are hoped to fill in for last year's devastating duo of Mike Trudeau (.366, 47 RBI) and Jack Moran (.314, 10 doubles). Vanthournout, the starting third basemen, is a first-team academic all-American, led last year's team in hits (68), hit at a .345 clip and scored 53 runs. The two seniors anchor the left side of the Irish infield. McNeill, who started the majority of the fall season behind the plate for the Irish, is still playing for the hockey team. Fellow sophomore Pat O'Brien will fill in Sunday, and sophomores Chris Flynn and Craig Pavlina promise to make the cat­ching position one of the more competitive spots this spring. 
Sophomore Tim Hutson and junior Ray Szajko will be roaming the right side of the infield at first and second base, respectively. Sza­jko's .313 batting average and three stolen bases last fall helped him emerge as the starting second baseman, but with the recovery of 

LarryUal/o 
Steve Skupien's ankle, Gallo plans to divide the time at second base. 
The outfield is perhaps the strongest and deepest aspect of the squad. The junior trio of Kenny Soos, Scott Rogers and John Loughran will lead the team. Loughran's .359 mark in 1985 leads all of the returning Irish players at the plate. 
"I'm not worried about our out­field because we have a very solid crew," said Gallo. "If we lose one of the hot gloves we've got out there, there are several qualified backups.'~ Steve Noll, John Flanagan, Pete Gutrich and Pat Pesavento will add to the Notre Dame bench strength in the field. 
The biggest question in the preseason is pitching. Kevin 
CLASSIFIEDS 

/Jw fJh\t'TI"I'I" '\t~ln· l>.ulu· 11JfJH. h•LHn.J till lht 1l11rd J1.1or td LilttrllJIH "tudc.:nl ( c.·nlcr .u. c. '"P''' l.l'... lfkd Jthc.·rll,lll).: tr~•,nll .1 111 lllltd 1 p m \ltllld,t\ 
thrtnJghlndJ\ lhefiiJ.\t'tlt'r".tiiH \1.tn ,,,f1nc. lttt.Jildt•ntla tlllrdtltHift•f ll.&gg.tr ( ,,Jkgt: < c.·ntc.-r .tc." c.· pt..,' l.i''lflt d.., lr•Hll I.!. ''' I' 111 llllld ""'-p 111 \1t•n d.l\ dlttU~h I ndJ\ I )c. Jdlull f,,r rH \l d.t\ t l.t.....,rfu d.., '' ~ I' 111 \II c. !,J,,Jifc. d.., mu,thl"prc.-p.ud tllhc.rrnpc.r..,,,ll,,rh\ m.nl < h.trgc. ''''''c.lll ... pc.rfl\c.·th.tr.h


Classifieds 
ll"f' l"f l.!.J\ 
NOTICES 
Wordprocesslng-Typlng 272-8827 
Typing A val/able 287-40!p 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-111117 
WANTED 
WANTED: Ride to general Cincinnati area. Will pay $$. Call Maureen at 4349 after 7:00p.m. 
SKI SKI SKI (Spring Break) 
We need 2 more people to go skiing to Colorado (Brekenrldge, Copper) Call NOW Chris (3185) Ramon (2475) 
Need 1-way ride to Cincinnati-after 3· 20. Mo-3465. 

Need ride to WASHINGTON D.C. for Spring Break. Will share usual. Call Lorn at 284·5315 
I LOST/FOUND I ~...--1_TIC_K_ET_s_____. 
Give us back the tapes you stole from our party OC. We are narrowing suspects and If we don't have them back by the time we find out exactly whoyouare-PAINI 
LOST!!!! I lost my CLASS RING Feb. 26 In the ACC or In the parking lot between the ACC and the stadium. Small woman's ring, light blue stone. In· scription • MCK '86. If found, please call 21!9-4445, Molly. 
FOUND One Pearl necklace outside LaFortune. Near Huddle on or about January 28. Call1151 and ask for Alan to claim. 

HELP! I LOST MY CAR KEYS FRIDAY NIGHT SOMEWHERE AROUND ST. LOUIS AVE. THEY WERE ON A LARGE STRA~.BERRY KEYCHAIN ALONG WITH LOTS OF OTHER IMPORTANT KEYS. IF YOU FOUND THEM PLEASE CALL JENNIFER AT 287-4287. 
found: Women's black Timex watch outside of the Rock on 2125. To claim, ca11 4241 . 
ST. PAT'S PARTY AT TIVOLI'S for the UNITED WAY! $.50 GREEN DRAFT BEER $1.25 ALL MIXED DRINKS $1.00 SHOTS OF SCHNAPPS FREE IRISH BUFFET! $5.00 TICKETS ON SALE NOW 

TURN DAYTON TICKETS INTO BEER VIA MONETARY UNITS. TERRY 237· 
9080 
I NEED DAYTON TIX. DOUG· 2467 
Need DAYTON GA's. Call Bill at 1775 
Need 4 tix for Dayton; 239-7204 or 233· 3412. 
I need DAYTON student tlx. X3506 
I need six (6) GA or student tickets for the Dayton game, but I will take however many you have. Call and leave a message at 283·2943. 
DESPERATELY need DAYTON tix ... call3805 
I NEED DAYTON TIX. 272-6306 
Need Dayton tix. US Call Ralph at 277­01771s that good enough, Ralph? 
NEED DAYTON TIX, STUD OR G.A. CHRIS -1135 
Need 2-4 GA's for Dayton game. Call Helen 3624. 
PERSONALS 
Hoop Hysteria shirts stlll•vallable! II All sizes. Stop by Room 221 Stanford or call 207812089 Does anyone need two Interesting peo­ple as riders on the way to BOSTON Fri. March 21 or Sat. March 22? Will share gas, of course. Going to NEW YORK STATE via Albany, Syracuse, or Rochester?, we'll ride along too. Please call3861. 
SPRING  BREAK  BOSTON  SPRING  
BREAK  BOSTON  SPRING  BREAK  
BOSTON  

EXICITEMENT ON CAMPUS?! DO YOU BELIEVE IN MAGIC? Come and experience Bob Garner-Illusionist March 4 8:00p.m. Engineering Building 
The Right Stuff -Bruce Lohman for Stu­dent Body President!!! 
Thank you St. Jude for all your help! Please continue to help me! 
P.T., Donny & B.O. -Key West here we come! 
CPAs Perfection is our Priority 
Hungry? Call YELLOW SUBMARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery hours: 5pm-12am Monday-Thursday; 5pm-2am Friday; 3pm-1am Saturday; 4pm-10pm Sunday. 
Debbie, 

Enjoyed your company last Friday. Wished we could have shared another dance. 
Love, D. 

THANK YOU ST. JUDE! 
GOD hates you too, Phillip ... St. Peter 
HEELLP DEE!!!!!! I'm suffering from Hockey Withdraw!! 
Thank you St. Jude! 
Katie M.: Why have you suddenly stop­ped calling back? If I said or did something that upset you, or even If It isn't me, can't we talk about It? You've been too good of a friend to me that I can't just forget about it. Please call me soon; my doubts are driving me up the wall. Love Paul 
FREE COUPONS In the yellow pages of the Campus Telephone Directory. Use them today! 
MK I love you, too. Chuck 
Life is wonderful, even at Marquette. 
Kolski 

TO CAST AND CREW OF TEMPEST: A MILLION THANKS FOR YOUR HELP AND SUPPORT LAST WEEK. COULDN'T HAVE DONE IT WITHOUT YOU! THIS ONE'S FOR YOU, M.G.! 
LOVE, UGLY UPSTART EAT YOUR HEART OUT OR JUST CHEESE STICKS, CHEESE FRIES, 2 BOXES OF COOKIES, 5 CHEESEBURGERS, AND A SIX PACK. 
JMBJ 
KANKAKEE OR BUST?!! MEMORIES FROM A WEEKEND 240mi/24hrs. Do I have to get out of the car? The Rabbit died -towtrucks & dogs. The Royal Motel? where's the cloaeatliquor store? On the road again! Singin' show tunes. Kam's at last. Shakin' with the bouncer. Too bright. Have Visa will travel. 
See I woke up Sunday morning and 1 says to myself, "Hey big D," I says, "I really had a good time with that SMC chick-Kryz." Then it hit me! POW! Why not tell her?! "O.K." says I ... Yo Kryz .. . I really had a good time 
To my Tex and Pitt buddies: How can I thank you for everything? The beer, cake, party, oh how I love you guys. You have really made this year one to remember.LL 
JOYCE, Best of luck to the best 200er at SMC Love, CUSH 

SMC StudentsSurvival Leader I nforma­tion Session March 5&6 6 P.M. HCC MANDATORYTOAITEND 1 MEETING 
r--------_.....______________ 
---~--------------~­
The Observer Wednesday, March 5, 1986-page 11 
We did our homework. Now do yours. \fill \\:1111 :t lfllllpll!l'f !11r (11\itgt· \i111 d11nt kflli\\ \\llldl lllll' !11 'tclfl' :tlld :tCCl''' lltlonn:tticl!l INl'f .\nd tilL· llll:tgl·\\ntl·r·vpnlllL'f tc, gt·t \i111 n· Llltlht\\·d \1111 gl'l dtprtw·d lt·b \oll pnnt out cn~p copll'~ ol ' lllf \\ork Lbtl\. tlwrn till' \l:llllltn:-ll I1111 I 1 ht L:tmlllg C:N· \\ l11ch ll'b \oil t:tkl' \our \bcmto~h ~\~lt'lll ''"L'fl'\l'r l',n :Ill\\' tltt· :lli~\\t·r to all \c111r u llllpllll'r proh!tlll~ i' .lt \oUr \our \\;1rk t:tkl·~ \otl · · ca111pu~ computt·r n·JJttr \\lttn· \fill II hnd \l:tUIItcr-li"" ptNill:tl . ~~~go to tlil' L':unpu~ conlplltl'r Cl'llll'r ;~nd p1ck up :1 \l:tcllltn:-11 lllllljllltc·r and a \(·lt·ctton c1t \bunter-It prc1duct' 'PtCtht:tlh ~tllttd tor hn 1churl· 'ltH!t·nb .\nd rt'llll'lllhtr \\ lwn ~ ou hn ng :t \ bc1111o:-h hnllll'. Tlw \l:ttlntcl'lljitf'flll:d computt·r ltb \Ill! \\ork I:L~ttr. ,nhntr thcfl'< a good cha11n· \Old! hl' hn11g111g IHlllll' ~omt·thmg and nton· tn·atiH·h Tilt· .~1pk" httrml tl!~k Ilfl\t· gi\t·~ \ill! tilt powl'r l'l\(· lkttl·r gr:ttb. E~rnal Disk Dnvt> I I ( ... ..-r·ylfl•'• (·:>or·,.:._.cu ...-o.-:. ...6 /'/ /-··· !",...,.... ·' ~,..,... ..... University Of Notre Dame faculty, staff and students For further Information, Inquire at can buy Macintosh comuters at discounted prices The Computing Center Room 25 9:00 ­5:00 Monday -Fridayfrom the Notre Dame computer store Phone 239-74n  

-·~----~--~----~-----------------~
___________..,....._____ 
The Observer Wednesday, March 5, 1986-page 12 
Freshman works hard 
Schmitz leads Notre Dame swim team in his first year 
By BOB KEMPER 
Sports Writer 
Bill Schmitz is certainly a dif­ferent breed of cat. Dubbed "Bill the Cat" by a fellow member of the Notre Dame swimming team, the freshman from Zahm Hall displays qualities uncommon for an athlete in his first year of collegiate com­petition. Schmitz balances leader­ship ability with modesty in a most admirable manner. 
To measure Bill Schmitz's con­tribution to the swim team thus far, one needs only to glance at the results from the Feb. 27 Midwestern Collegiate Conference championship meet. In the meet's first event, the 500-yard freestyle, Schmitz took first place with a time of 4:47.01. In addition to scoring valuable first-place points, he set the precedent for the entire meet and let the other teams know that Notre Dame was a force to be reckoned with. 
Schmitz and the Irish will be in Chicago for the for the Midwest In­vitational, which runs from tomor­row until Saturday. 
"Bill is a very good distance freestyle swimmer and it is safe to say that in the next few years he will be an excellent one," said Irish coach Tim Welsh. "I am very en­thusiastic about his potential." 
Welsh noted that Notre Dame is fortunate to have landed such a gifted swimmer since it was a toss­up between Notre Dame and Duke University until the end. 
"Coach Stark (Notre Dame's previous coach) didn't recruit much," Schmitz said. "I was put on a mailing list and that was about the extent of it. Duke, on the other hand, was much more aggressive." 
A combination of factors led to 
his decision to attend Notre Dame, though, not the least of which is that his father is an alumnus. 
"I grew up hearing about Notre Dame," he said, "and it's difficult to avoid getting caught up in the tradition. In addition, I knew that they were building the new pool and could sense that the swimming program would change for the bet­ter." 
Schmitz noted that the team's success so far has indeed surpassed his expectations, and he is quick to laud his coach. "Coach Welsh has really intensified this program. We have improved so much over the course of this year. It's amazing. 
"The training is a lot different from what I did in high school. It involves much more distance work. If my high school coach would have said we were going to have a 5000-yard sprint for time, I would have told him he was crazy. But here it seems normal. Coach Welsh really knows what he is doing." 
When asked about his expecta­tions for upcoming seasons, his response is paradoxical. 
"I believe that my times will con­tinue to improve but I'm not sure if I will place as high next year," he said. "This is our last year in the MCC. We hope to get in a con­ference with St. Bonaventure, Cleveland State, Villanova, Syracuse and a few other teams. That would be a much tougher con­ference than the one that we are in now." 
With the times that Schmitz posted in the conference champion­ship meet, the Northfield, Minn. native qualified for the 500, 1 ,650, and possibly the 200-yard freestyle events in tomorrow's meet. The ever-humble Schmitz was reluctant to admit that he hopes to set a University record in the 1,650 yard event. 

Erasmus Books 
1027 E. Wayne Tues -Sun, noon -6 1 block south of Jderson & Eddy
.._.a o.tot.m-a boob..__... -w......:lied 
SUMMER JOBS 
EARN $3000 -$4500 THIS SUMMER 
• 
EKieflor House Pornhng • 14 Week Mrnrmum Season 

• 
Management Opportunrtres rn 1st Year 

• 
40 Hours Per Week 



®·, _. 

• 
Great Career Expe11ence .-@~~~@~ 

• 
Startrng S~ Per Hour Wage f'rdi;lb},lf'lf 


HURRY! Fltl0~~~ckly ~TEAM 
HOUSfPAtNTERS M1nneapohs Sl Paul 
(6t2) tJS-1210 

Cflrcogo West SuDurDs Cleveland SuDurDs 
(Jt2) ....a:IOf (2.6) IJ• ·OH7 Ctucogo NOI1fl Sflort! ColumDus CJ•a) a..aza• (tt4) "•.... Exciting Permanent Car..rs Also Ava I 
"I wasn't born with much natural Schmitz enjoys being in a leader­
talent," he said. "I have to work ship role, although it is a new posi­
pretty hard and hti sis hwere Coach tion for him. 
Welsh really helps." "It's something new and different to be first and lead a lane," he said. "In high school I swam with a teammate who was a double-state champion and another who is a Division III national champion now. And we all three swam the same events." 
Aside from being an excellent swimmer for the Irish, Schmitz is also trying his hand in recruiting. He has a younger sister, Martha, who is also an accomplished swim­mer and occasionally he makes an attempt at pursuading her to attend Notre Dame. 
"We're trying to keep it in the family," he said, "but my mother is not too happy about it. She went to Northwestern." 
Why is Bill Schmitz so sold on Notre Dame? 

"It's the family atmosphere," he explained. "It seems that many peo­ple have brothers and sisters or parents who have gone here, and the Notre Dame family extends to teammates and fellow students." 


Junior Class Formal
NOTICE: 

Saturday, March 8 
Because of technical pro­
Knollwood Country Club
blems, Sports Wednesday does not appear in today's Observer. It will return next 
Tickets available tonight--·Thursday 6-9pm week. 
Junior Class Office Lafortune 
/ 

Limited number available 

Loads of styles, sizes, colors ••• 



1200 pairs of namebrand boots to choose from: 
•Acme 
•Dan Post 

•Tony 
Lama • Texas 

• 
Dingo • Capezio 

• 
Justin •Imperial 

• 
Abilene Infant size 4 through men's size 14 . 



•••and great prices 

TO BOOT! 
One mile north of US 20 on Fir Road 55345"Fir Road, Mishawaka, IN 46545 • (219) 2b9-1188 Bring this ad In and receive a 1cn.discount on any pal~ of boots. Expires March 31 

Wednesday, March 5, 1986 -page 13
The Observer 

r ~r ~ 
Indiana's Todd Meier deflects the ball into the team by the United States Basketball Wrli~fsnoto face of Ohio State's Brad Sellers in a game earlier Association yesterday. Further details appear in this year. Sellers was named to the All-District 4 the story below. 
.............---~-~ 
ST.JVDE 
0 Holy St. Jude apoatle and martyr grf'ot In elrtuf' and rich In mlraclea near kingdom of Jeaua Chrlat, faithful lnterceuor of all who Invoke your apeclal patronage In lime of need, to you 1have recourae from the death of my heart and humbly beg to whom God haa given auch power, to come to my aulatancr. Help me In my preaent ond urgent petition. In return I 
promise to makt> your name known 
and cauae you to be Invoked. Say three Our Fothers,three Hall Marys and Glorlaa. For nine conaecutlve daya. Publlcatlona mual be promlaed. St. Jude pray for ua and all who Invoke your aid. Amen. Thla Novena haa never been known 
rn fnll 

THANK YOU ST• .IUDE 
r 
District team selected 
Associated Press averaging 24.5 points, 11.5 re­bounds, 3.18 steals, and 2.32 
DAYTON, Ohio -Ron Harper blocked shots per game. of Miami University has been nam­Versace's Bradley team is 30-1 ed Player of the Year by District 4 this season and currently ranked of the United States Basketball ninth nationally. The Braves won Writers Association. the regular-season championship of 
Bradley's Dick Versace was nam­the 'Missouri Valley Conference. ed Coach of the Year yesterday by Other members of the 10-man the writer's group. District 4 in­District team include Steve cludes Ohio, Illinois, Michigan and Alford,lndiana; Dave Colbert, Minnesota. Dayton;Hersey Hawkins, 
Harper, a 6-6 senior forward Bradley;Byron Larkin,Xavier;Ken from Dayton, has 2,305 career Norman,lllinois;David Rivers, points -a Mid-American Con­Notre Dame;Brad Sellers, Ohio ference record -and this season led State;Scott Skiles, Michigan State; the MAC in four categories, and Roy Tarpley, Michigan. 
Summer 


STORAGE 
RESERVATION CALL NOW 
683·1959 

• 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS 

•APPROX 
2Y2 MILES NORTH US 31-33 

•GA
TES OPEN ALLDAY SUNDAY 


Master Mini Warehouses 
P.O. BOX 100 NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 
"-"BEST LITTLE STORE-HOUSE IN MICHIANA" 
The Nazz Competition is coming ••• 
A chance for student bands and musicians to compete for fame and recognition. 
On Friday, April 4th you will compete for: 
*CASH PRIZES/ .
* A postion In the Saturday showcase performance (April 5th) *A chance to play with 
MAX WEINBERGER, BRUCE SPRINGSTEIN'S DRUMMER/ 
Registration is at the front desk of the Student Government Offices from March 11 to March 16. 
QUESTIONS? Call Liz 283-2985 
"' ~ 
Tennis team grabs 2nd in tournatnent in Iowa 
By PETE SKIKO 
Spo~s Writer 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team invaded Iowa this weekend and captured second place in a four-team quadrangular at Iowa City. 
The Irish started slowly, losing 7­2 to the Huskies of Northern Il­linois in the opening round of play, 
but  rebounded  strongly  by  
dominating  Iowa State, 7-2,  and  
Iowa, 6-3.  

The team was led by freshmen Brian Kalbas and Tim Carr who played second and third singles, respectively. Each went undefeated on the weekend, and each won mat­ches against Northern Illinois in dramatic fashion. Carr was down a match point in the third set of his match before rallying to take the set in a tiebreaker. Kalbas trailed 5­2 in the third set against his oppo­nent before taking the next five games en route to a 6-2, 2-6, 7-5 victory. 
"I thought everyone played well throughout the whole meet," said Carr. "I felt we really should have beaten Northern Illinois -almost every match went to three sets." Six of the nine Irish matches went to three sets against the Huskies, the eventual winners of the meet. 
"If we could have played them (Northern Illinois) last, things might have been different," Carr continued. "Everyone played better as the weekend went on, and we 
SPRING TRAVEL SPECIAL 
to Chicago's O'Hare l1 Midway Airport One Way szoooRound TripS30°0 
Available February 15th through March 31st. Tickers purchased usable rhroughour 1986 
~~~~~NEA (800) 332-7323 LOCAL (219) 674-6993 
Or call your travel agent 
Bruce Springstein's Drummer 
MAX WEINBERGER 
will soon be at Notre Dame. 
Max will first show a documentary film ofthe Born in the U.S.A. tour (made by 
N.F.L. Films). He will then talk about his experiences with Bruce on the road. And finally, Max Weinberger will jam with the finest ofNotre Dame's musicians chosen from the students at the Nazz competition. 
MAX is coming Aprill2. ~ -, Sponsored by the Student Activities Board 
~ 

~ 
rolled past a good Iowa State team to finish out the meet. I thought . everyone played solid, especially (freshman) Tony Cahill, who was sick last weekend (against In­
diana)." 
Cahill was 2-1 on the weekend, and this was his first singles action of the year. 
Sophomore Dan Walsh, who played number-one singles for the Irish in the meet, was also happy with the results. Walsh went 1-2 for the quadrangular, but lost two tough three-setters to Northern Il­linois and Iowa. 
"Kalbas and Carr had just super weekends," said Walsh. "We have a young team, and I'd say we're com­ing along really well. We got some tough breaks wi.th the three-setters over the weekend, but overall it was a good meet." 
The top six singles spots con­sisted of two sophomores and four freshmen. Senior Joe Nelligan, who would have normally filled a singles position, played only doubles over the weekend because of a sore knee. 
This weekend, the Irish host 
Ohio University, Wisconsin­
Oshkosh and Chicago-Illinois. The 
quadrangular will be played at the 
ACC on Saturday and Sunday. 
Thanks to you... • 
It works ... 
for ALL OF US ure.~,_, 
Hats Offto tM Irish 


Wear your Irish painter's cap to the game On sale at tM Dining Hall. 
Today $1 
"-~ f!'-.1\ 


mon_, order. V1u or Ma•ter<:.rd flhoneo order!> 1100117 UOO Elll, 17 
A. Sklswe-ater, IOO't pure wool In are~n omd creilm wilh sh1mrock desian S,.S 00 
8. Ct~nt"ck "lr~land" s~ater. 100'\. soli Kryllc In k~lly aret"nlwhil~ lellerlnl $)4 00 
C. CtewnKk. sh•mrock deslan knllled lnlo IOO't wool in t"merald Rreen SSS 00 
l."" f"'" I I ... -·I~··'"•'! '"''' M•·n .'M I XI 
: :~"""'''"X''MI 
...._,,,, .., ......, I 

··~ ... "·~·· l0'"' -_.... 
'"" 
l·~h· • .. •• 
BUILD YOUR SIIUS 
TO BOOST YOUR SCORE! 
PREPARE FOR: 
LSAT 
• 
TEST N TAPE' LIBRARY 

• 
REINFORCEMENT TEST 

• 
HOMESTUDY PACKET 


1717 E. South Bend Ave South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 272-4135 


The Observer Wednesday, March 5, 1986-page 14 

Irish will face Xavier in first of two in Ohio 
By MIKE SZYMANSKI ing from its holiday road trip, Sports Writer Notre Dame has won 13 of 15 con­tests. 
The Notre Dame women's "We've been playing with con-basketball team enters the final sistency," sai~ DiStanislao. "We've stretch toward its season-long goal been getting good solid production of winning the North Star Con-from the entire team, and heading ference tomorrow night, needing into the final week of the season victories against both the Lady when so much is on the line that is Musketeers and at Dayton Satur-an encouraging sign. day to clinch the title. "We'll have to play at our peak 
performance this week, and I think "Xavier is a lot better team this we will. Our kids have played under year with talented players who play pressure and I think we'll respond hard," said Irish head. coach Mary with a positive effort." DiStanislao. "We cannot afford to Irish sophomore center Sandy let down. Since every game in a Botham has been a model of con­conference situation counts the sistency during the months of same, none are expendable." January and February. Botham has Xavier brings a 2-25 record into scored in double figures in 16 its meeting with Notre Dame; straight games, a Notre Dame which enters the game with a 19-7 record, averaging 15.3 points and overall mark and an 11-1 NSC 8.4 rebounds a game during that record. Notre Dame defeated stretch. Botham also ranks 14th na­Xavier 104-57 earlier this season at tionally in field goal percentage at the ACC. 61.1 percent. "We will take whatever they give The winner of the NSC will be us," said DiStanislao. "Sincle we do looking toward an at-large bid to have the height advantage, we will the NCAA Tournament. try to get good shots in the paint. "Right now we are fence-sitter We had success against them defen-for a bid," said DiStanislao. "Our I be IJIJierVer/Drew Sandler sively with the 1-2-2. odds go down as dark horses win Sophomore guard Mary Gavin brings the ball the road to play Xavier tomorrow night. Mike ''They have gotten good play out the conference tournament playoff upcourt against Tennessee's Dawn Marsh in a Szymanski previews the game in his story at left. of Maureen Fredrick, Deborah automatic bids and the strong 
game earlier this season. Gavin and~th.eiiliilrzsi·hiiiarllielliolin•••••••••••••••••••
Long and Terry Cavanaugh, who teams get the at-large bids." had 14 rebounds against us." This already has occurred in the March of Dimes 
The Irish currently sport a five-Big East tournament, where under-game win streak, their longest of dog Villanova had a mediocre Fight the season, and have won in 11 of season but won the tournament and Birth Defects 


WED.-The Club Presents 
""DANCING lAWN CHAIRs·· 
an exc1t1ng band and al:.o 75c Tome Spec1als1 · 

c n I -I I r .. J r .. ~ ·-' .... I-.• ' <"• l ~-~ ~ ~ 1.-. -. -I 
I I I 
111

~ nC I 1 r ULL Y I~QVt::'l :J Ql C L!Cl'~K 
Plus SOc Peachtree and
I 

Apple barrel dnnksl 
SAT.-Dance the mqht away at ''The Club'', all are welcome' 


FOR CLUB RENTALS CALL: BRYAN DEDRICK 283-1089 239-7521 
u~tt-.~stA~'~tl'1\0\"' ~\)\;t are now ~ available for the NEW Undergraduate Club in LaFortune for the 1986-87 academic year!  
Positions available:  
• General Manager • Rentals Manager • Food/Beverage Manager • Promotions Manager • Programming Manager  

Deadline for applications is Wednesday, March 12. Interviews will be March 17-19. Pick up applications in the Student Activities Office, 1st floor .of LaFortune. 

P-----~---.---------------------·--------------------------~----------------------­

'JI['4(Jt~C3L~-------------------------------------------------W•e•d•n-es_d_a_y._M__
ar.c.h_5_,_19_8_6_-_p_ag_e_l_5 
Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 



Zeto 
Kevin Walsh 

WATCH THIS THE' BI&­LOOK AI THOSE' 
N05ED KIDS ABDUl TO 
/·Ill THE: THIN PATCJ-l, THEN iTS FIVE'8UCKS CRAZY DUCKS! r 

SW;;<>..R TNEY SFFND 
'(OU OWE ME, EDDIE!

HALF TNE1R Ll VC:S uP-SIDE {)CioNN IN THE ..-------:c. L 
WATER. 
\Q{' ~ ~-~~I!~ 

"Sorry ... we're deod." 
The 
Daily Crossword Campus 
ACROSS 1 Thai money 
*12:15 p.m. -Workshop, Lore Segal, *7, 9 & II p.m. -Movie, "Volunteers,"
5 Slangy thief 1 0 Wheel support Sophomore Literary Festival, Library Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by the 14 Ripening Lounge, Sponsored by the SAB SAB, $1.50 factor *4 p.m. -Lecture, "Development and En­*7 p.m. -Meeting, Christian Fellowship
15 Deportation 
vironment," Jean Labasse, Paris Institute for Meeting, Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
16 Formosa 
Studies in Politics, Room 202 Architecture *7:30p.m. -Meeting, Arts & Letters Business
Strait port 
School, Sponsored by the Kellogg Institute Society, Room 121 O'Shaughnessy
17 Children's running and the O'Neill Chair *10 p.m. -Campus Perspectives, Bill Healy contest *7 p.m. -Movie, "Killing Us Softly," Grace and Duane Lawrence will be interviewed by 20 Art Item Hall Pit, Social Concerns Film Series Lynne Strand on WVFI-AM 6400 
21 In good shape 22 Distress 
signal Dinner Menus 23 Pretty girl 26 Take five 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
28 High mountain 31 Ms Collins Oven Fried Chicken Baked Ham 33 Grand Canal 
Deep Fried Provolone Cutlets Lasagna 
bridge 
Spaghetti with Italian Meat Sauce Potato Pancakes 
37 Zulder-
Bologna and Swiss Grilled Sandwiches Beef Burgundy 
38 Sound system 40 Number 41 -lunch 
(business meal) © 1986 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 3/5/86All Rights Reserved
45 Roofedge 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved:

46 Public spat 47 Antique car 8 Eng. contempo· 

ATTA ENATE,BROW48 Wrinkle raryof 29 0 N 0 0 N VII X EN LAN A51 Sponsorship 9 Trial balloon 52 Sea flyer 10 Berne's river T RuT HIEIXll s T s 0.
S Y R I A S T R I N G Y53 Benevolent 11 Yuletide 55 Dismounted 12 In-parentis 1-CRAG~YED 57 Play a part 13 Spud buds 
F A 
L S E H 0 0 
D. G EIS 

T E 60 Field cover 18 O.T. prophet 
E R 62 RN word 19 Arnaz I T 
E.MEAL •tkJi SIT 

N E 66 Nuclear 24 Acetic R 0 T 0M P~L I A 0 cS N 
OIRED.V 
Nls•n 

reactor site 25 Pluto's domain 70 Fidel's 27 A US presl· il!~r R•t~ S T lA MIE N T
MATH 
HEIR A-

brother dent P E
71 Occasion 28 Montezuma 72 Footnote abbr. for one 
HAST~BEINVENTED 
AN T E LA NIA I E T 
0 N

73 Part of a list 29 "Merry Widow" 74 -on (lures) composer W E E D E T A P E R 0 
N A 75 Tubular 30 Grievance 
3/5/86
32 Relative 

DOWN 34 Fr. river 49 locale 61 Entreaty 1 Moderate 35 Plano adjuster 50 Glossy coating 63 Nobelist In 2-Khan 36 Giant hunter 54 Fund-raising physics 3 Towel word 39 Gr. letter campaign 64 Cut 4 Cornered 42 Shlpwood 56 Bulb plant 65 Vortex 5 Coagulate 43 Indigo 57 lt. bell town 67 Shade tree 6 Tomahawk 44 Varnish 58 Converse 68 Terminate 7 Almost Ingredients 59 loyal 69 -In the bag! 
SPONSOREDBY:THESTUDENTACTIVITJESBOARD
$PONSQRED BY: THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
Splash
VOLUNTEERS 

Friday, March 7th,



Wednesday,March 5th and 
Saturday, March 8th 
Thursday,March 6th 
7:00, 9:15, 11:30 p.m.
7:00, 9:00, 11 :00 p.m. 
Please, no food or drinks in Auditorium 
Please, no food or drinks in Auditorium 




------------------~-~----------·---~--------...,.._-­

Bengal Bouts continue tonight with semifinals slated at Stepan 
The semifinals of the 1986 Bengal Bouts  Semlnnal Pairings  ISO pounds  
are slated for tonight, as the winners of their  Ted Gradel vs. Thomas Ingalls  
preliminary fights will meet  for  a  shot at  Daniel Sexton vs. John Weber  
division title matches in 29 bouts.  115 pounds  155 pounds  
Some of the  more  notable bouts on the  Pat Baccanari vs. Mark Lechner Thomas Berens vs. Patrick McCormick  Jeffery Masciopinto vs. John Drew Liam Healy vs. Michael Mazza  
card include some of last year's champions.  IJOpounds  160pounds  
Joseph "Smokin' Joe" l>llins takes on Matt  John Goodwine vs. Nicholas Capece  David Wood vs. Daniel Gamache  
Coash in the 147-pound division while another defending champion, Donald  Thomas Hayman vs. Wilson Walker 135 pounds Michael Noone vs. Nicholas Steck  Mark Muldowney vs. John Mundo 165 pounds Donald Antrobus vs. Dennis Coleman  
"Transpo" Antrobus, faces Dennis Coleman  David Simon vs. Mark Anderson  James Stevenson vs. John Burlebach  
in  the  165-pound  class.  The  Super  l.llpounds  I?Opounds  
Heavyweight  division  has  former  champ  Anthony Bonacci vs. Timothy Hartigan  Timothy Lyons vs. Mark Polaski  
Pernell "Soul Train" Taylor meeting Daniel  Steven Slaughter vs. Edward Borneman  Alejandro Cando vs. Kevin Hamer  
Quinn for the right to defend his title against Greg Hudson on Friday. Hudson was the on­ 140 pounds Joe Romero vs. Stephen Hillsman Frank Tantalo vs. Joe Cox  175 pounds Ignacio O'Donnell vs. Michael Renaud David Becker vs. Michael Barron  
ly competitor to receive a  bye in tonight's  145pound•  liS pounds  
schedule.  Thomas Newell vs. David Dvorak  John Uhll vs. James Thordall  
Action gets underway at 7:30 at Stepan Center. Tickets may be purchased at the  Patrick Loughran vs. Mark Seals 147 poaads Joseph Collins vs. Matt Coash  James Ackerson vs. Michael Ross Super Hnvywdlbl Pernell Taylor vs. Daniel Quinn  
door for $3.  Robert Harig vs. Robert Prebenda  Greg Hudson (Bye)  

Senior forward leads Irish 

Keys has no time to think about personal achievements 
By MARTY STRASEN  on Saturday in their final games of  "Everybody in my family played  more work than high school, but I  Arena on Saturday, her organized  
Sports Writer  the  season,  with  a  second­ basketball," she says. "My father  was  never concerned about losing  basketball  career  might  be  over.  
When  it's  all  said  and  done,  consecutive conference champion­ship awaiting if they are able to win  played in the Air Force, my older brother played at Earlham College  my eligibility or anything like that. I did the work and was able to han­ Unlike the men's game, there is no NBA for Keys. But once again, she  
Trena Keys will be remembered as  both.  (in  Richmond,  Ind.)  and  my  dle it."  has more important things on her  
the best women's basketball player  But win or lose, Keys has played  younger  brother  plays  in  high  On  the court,  DiStanislao  has  mind.  
ever to play at Notre Dame. But,  a major role in putting Notre Dame  school. Even my mother says she  had the pleasure of watching Keys  I  haven't  really thought  about  
for the time being, Keys has her  women's basketball on the NCAA  used to play.  develop into a complete player, and  playing basketball in the future,"  
mind on more important things. The 6-1 senior forward has earn­ed her place in the. Notre Dame record books. The career records speak for themselves: first in career scoring (I,496 points), scoring average (14 points per game), field goals attempted (1,317), field goals made (651), 10-point games (73) and 20-point games (28). So what's left for Keys to accomplish?  map. "Trena is probably the first player with legitimate potential for all-American status/' says Irish head coach Mary DiStanislao. "She definitely has the credentials. She has good speed, quickness, tremen­dous shooting ability and has really sharpened her defensive skills. "Her mere presence on the floor really has an impact on the team.  "I decided right before the sec­tionals in my senior year at Marion that I would come to Notre Dame. Everyone stressed how good it was academically and I knew I would have the opportunity to get a good job when I graduated. And it's only two hours away from home so my mom and dad could come see me play."  marvels at the senior's success in realizing her talent and using it to help the team win. "The most difficult thing she had to learn was just how much poten­tial she has," says DiStanislao. "She had to see her talent and learn how to assert it. She has definitely ac­complished that. "She has become so consistent  says the marketing major. "I've got to think about a career first. I've had some job interviews and have to decide what I'm going to do." But Keys is not ready to say "goodbye" just yet. She still has at least two games left -and wants nothing less than a pair of victories. There will be plenty of time later to think about records.  
Winning. "Right now the records really don't mean much," she says. "I haven't had the chance to think  Trena is an impact player. There's And play she did, leading the no question about it.~' . . team in scoring as a freshman with Keys b~ga~ playmg orgaruzed a scoring average of 10.5 points a basketball m eighth grade, and peo­· game. She adjusted to the college  and intelligent on the court. She has learned to read situations and does what has to be done at opportune times.  "Maybe a couple of years down the road," she says, "I'll be able to look back when people say, 'Trena has this record' or 'Trena has that  
about them. My main concern right  pie soon became aware of the fact  game-with· phenomenal  success,  "Trena is not a real talkative per­ record.' But for now I want to do  
now is winning basketball games. I want to go to the (NCAA) Tourna­ment. That's my dream."  that her basketball car~er would not. stop there. The Manon•. In~., native was an all-state selection. m  and found that success in the classroom was just a matter of put­tin~ her mind to it.  son but she get her point across both on and off the floor," DiStanislao continues. "That's the  whatever I can do to help the team win games." And whatever she decides to do  
The Irish are currently 19-7  on  each of her four years at Manon  job  of  a  leader  and  she's  our  upon graduation in May, one thing 
the season, 11-1 in the North Star  High School, and looked at Notre  "I knew the work was going to be  leader."  is  for  sure.  The  Notre  Dame  
Conference. They play  at  Xavier  Dame's academic reputation above  tough and I was a little scared at  And  when  Keys  steps  off the  women's basketball team will have  
tomorrow night and visit Dayton  all else when making college plans.  first," she explains. "It was so much  floor at the University of Dayton  a hard time replacing Trena Keys.  




SRorts 
Sorin utilizes fast-break offense, captures IH title with 63-54 victory 
By FRANK HUEMMER 
Sports Writer 

The 1986 A-league interhall basketball crown belongs to Sarin Hall. Sorin used a devastating fast-break offense to upend an in­spired Grace team, 63-54, and end Grace's Cinderella season before a full house in the ACC's pit. 
Grace coach Paul Derwent was pleased with his team's effort despite the loss. 
"We came out there knowing that we would be outsized and played quite hard," said Derwent. "We just did not have enough to win the game." 
Sorin coach Pat Collins also gave Grace credit for its play in the con­test. 
"Grace is a talented team and has good shooters," he said. "That's how they beat Morrissey, Alumni, and Planner. They were not going to roll over and die when we got the big lead. They just kept coming back at us." 
Chris Nanni led the way for the Sorin Otters in the victory as he hit for 20 points, many of which came off dazzling assists from teammate Collins. Meanwhile, Steve Takach used a soft touch from the outside and some power on the inside to pace Grace with 17 points. 
The game began with Sorin tak­ing complete command by poun­ding the ball inside as Rich DiBer­nardo scored the first six points of the game. After teammate Steve Buerlein tacked on a three-point play, Sorin had a quick 9-0 lead. Grace, however, would fight back: 
After Sorin had stretched the lead to 10 on a basket by Mike Scotty, Grace's Dan McGrath scored his team's final four points, the last coming on a breakaway layup with eight seconds to go, to closethegapto 17-9. 
Grace made a strong run to begin the second quarter, alrgely on the strength of Takach's six points, and tied the score at 17 with 5: 39 to go. After a Sorin timeout, the Otters came right back with an eight-point run of their own which was culminated by two Beuerlein free throws. 
Grace closed the margin to within four at 27-23 as Joe Hills tipped in a shot with 24 seconds left. That is how it remained at the half as Sorin was paced by Andy Heck and DiBernardo's six points while Takach's eight led Grace. 
The second half saw Grace take its first lead of the game at 29-28 on a basket by Takach, but that is where Sarin really turned up its fast-break offense and got it rolling in high gear. A couple of nifty passes from Collins to Nanni got things on track and soon the lead was 10 at 41-31. 
Grace cut the lead to six at the quarter by scoring the final four points. Sorin, however, wasted no time in the final period and built a 12-point advantage at 47-35. With 
2:47 remaining, they still held a 10 point lead. 
Grace refused to quit and closed to within 51-46 on a basket by Ralph Ferrara with 1:39 to go. After trading hoops, Ferrara's three-point play trimmed Sorin's lead to three at 55-52. 
That was as close as Grace would get as some clutch free throws by Nanni nailed the coffin on Grace's season. However, as Derwent said, it was a very good season indeed. 
"I was very proud of this year's team," said Derwent. "We had only two players returning from last year's team and we started out quite slowly but we got better. In the tournament we played as well as we did all year." 
Wednesday, March 5, 1986 -page 16 
,;" 
The Observer/Jim Carroll 

Chris Nanni of Sorin Hall takes the ball to the hoop against a Grace defender in the interha/1 basketball championship yesterday. Nanni scored 20 points to lead Sorin in a 63-54 victory. Frank Huemmer details the action at left. 






