-----------------~----~------------------­
-~ 
NCAA update -_page 11 
'·" 

VOL XX, NO. 1 12 FRIDAY, MARCH 14, 1986 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Students to offer views in search for next ND President 
By MARTIN RODGERS not to choose candidate A, B or C, StaffReporter but rather qualities." According to Healy, "Father Hes­burgh has recognized that it is time 
A group of Notrc Dame students for a change and we must help find wiU a.~lst the University's board of someone to help the University trustees In its choice of a new llni­cross that bridge . . . (someone) to vc;rsity president. show that the University can 
Astudent advisory committee has survive, that we can make it without been formed at the request of Father Ted ( Hesburgh)." Thoma.'i Carney. board chairman, to The student committee will form­gather student input in the decision ulate a report based on their own 
to name a successor to Father opinions as well as input petitioned llteodore Hesburgh, who will from other concerned students, said resign at the end of next year. Healy. The amount of influence the 
On the committee are Student report will have is still questionable, Body President BIU Healy, Student he said. Body Vice President Duane According to Healy, the board will Lawrence, Lyons Hall President be taking suggestions from a broad joanie CahiU, Bruce Lohman, and range of avenues from ad­
Observer Editor-in-Chief Sarah ministrators to faculty to students Hamilton. and anyone with any knowledge on 
Healy said the committee would what, or who, a good candidate have an Influence on "one of the should be. most important decisions in the his­Healy said he was assured by Car­tory of Notre Dame . . . a decision ney that the voice of the students which will decide where the Univer­would indeed be heard, but the in· sity is heading and under what type fluence was contingent on the of direction.... It's not a popularity quality of the report. contest. This is a serious issue The report will be divided into a dealing with a serious future." public section highlighting qualities 
Hamilton said the purpose of the and a closed section mentioning committee "is not to campaign ... candidates. 

By RAY MULERA from it. Neff added that Goodwill is troversy over parking in the lot prior StaffReporter liable for any accidents that may oc­to the court battle, adding that cur in the lot since it owns the lot. It Bridget's shares ln the payment for
New SBP /SBVP team 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­also incurs litter clean-up costs for lot clean-up. dents who frequent Bridget the lot. McGuire's Filling Station now may These combined factors led to the "I hate to see it (the towing) hap­

set to lead next year 
have more than one reason for not crackdown on violators, he claimed. pen to my customers," said Bauer, being able to find their car upon But Terri 'Bauer, manager of who has posted a large sign warning
By ELLYN MASTA.KO added. 
leaving. Bridget's, said she believes Neff has her customers. 
Senior StaffReporter "I thought of the idea, so I got 
Goodwill has contracted a towing other intentions in implementingto be president and Don got to be service to remove cars parked in the the new policy. She said she thinks Since towing started about three
After a light-hearted campaign vice president. I'm also a half­nearby Goodwill Plaza lot after 8 his "intention was harrassment." weeks ago Neff estimates that bet·
and an upset victory in the stu· inch taller than Don. We thought p.m., according to J. Larry Neff, ween 40 and 50 cars have bec:ndent body president election, it would look better in the President of Goodwill Industries of This contention stems from Neffs towed at a cost of between S35 andMike Switek and Don Montanaro pictures," said Switek. 
Michiana. attempt to block the tavern's new 140 to each ownc:r.
still are smiling. The two new­Switek and Montanaro, who The new policy was instituted for addition, according to Bauer. Neffcomers to the political scene are roommates in Cavanaugh several reasons, Neff said. Since lost his bid to block the building in He added that the cost for towingvow to kec:p the: promises they Hall, used crayons to create un­Goodwill pays for the upkeep and late December and Bauer said she is a standard service charge: and thatmade: in their campaign platform. usual campaign posters. Now, 
plowing ofthe lot, he noted, he feels feels this may be his form ofrevenge. Goodwill receives none: of the only its customers should benefit She noted there has not been con-money. 

Abroad students have co-ed option 
By TRIPP BALTZ ed dorms as from living in a single ratios," Loux said. The program was SeniorStaffReporter (-sex dorm)." forced to move out of these two Assistant Provost Isabel Charles dorms because: ofzoning difficulties, 
Many Notre Dame students are was out of town and unavailable for according to Loux. "The arc:a was living in co-educational dormitories comment. becoming residential," he said. while studying abroad, according to Flanagan said mixing the "We dc:sircd to accomodate in a Art Grubert, assistant to the director residences in London is "a radical fair way both the mc:n and the offoreign study programs. experiment." She said the dorms are women applicants. It is very difficult 
MikeSwitek Don Montanaro 
Grubert said students are housed considered Notre Dame housing. to find housing that meets these two Besides a commitment to they say, the crayon will be a hal­
in co-ed dorms in the Innsbruck, Catherine Lavine, a program ad· criteria," Loux added. changing Kraft Macaroni and lmark of their administration. 
Jerusalem and Tianjin programs. Stu­ministrator in London, said that Besides space, security also was Chc:c:se to Kraft Cheese and "The crayon thing will be the 
dents also live in mixed housing in Notre Dame rents the dorms from a considered in the decision to go co­Macaroni, thc:y have other, more new symbol of student govern­
the London program, according to property manager. Lavine, who said ed in the first dorm, according to campus-oriented ideas. ment," said Switek, who admitted 
Catherine Flanagan, coordinator of the situation was very satisfactory, Loux. "We decided to run for office he is partial to the jumbo blue 
the program. explained that the ·two dorms hold 
"Having mc:n and women in the: one day last semester at a some­ones. Montanaro said he will go 
60 and 20 people, respectively. She same dorm rc:lic:vc:d what some

Grubert said he thinks the dorms 
said it is necessary to house men andwhat rc:putable, off-campus es­with the green ones to keep with thought was a security problc:m.

for students in the Innsbruck,
tablishment. When we: askc:d the the spirit of the St. Patrick's Day women together because the Lon­Some: womc:n were: uncomfortable
Jerusalem and Tianjin programs are 
don program is divided equally bet·rest of the people there, they all season. 

with th~otion ofwalking around in

state-owned. He said the residences 
ween the sexes.

agreed," said Montanaro. "We Another symbol involves the the city'in the evening without men.
are not part of Notre Dame housing. 
wc:rc: an idea whose time had entire student body. 
Michael Loux, dean ofthe Collc:gc The mixture relieved that problem," come. "We said during our campaign Grubert hasn't heard any com­of Arts and Letters, said the Initial he said. 
"We sec student government that we would do our best to get plaints from returning students of reason behind making a co-ed dorm At the suggestion of the hall staffs, from the normal guy on the all students to smile on their way any of the foreign study programs was the unavailablJJty of space. the second residence: houses couch's point ofview." 
see LEADERS, page 6 about living in mixed housing. "I "Originally we had two facilities, 
see CO-ED, page 4"We like: couches," Switek think you can gain as much from co· which by luck met the male-female 




The Observer Friday, March 14, 1986-page 2 
In Brief 

The top-selling magazine on campus is, again, Cosmopolitan. The annual survey by College Store Executive found that Gentleman's Quarterly was edged out for lOth place by TV Guide. -Tbe Observer 
Of Interest 

The Saint Mary's mathematics department 
will sponsor the tenth annual Michiana mathematics contest for high 
school women tomorrow morning beginning at 9 in Madeleva Hall. 
The contest is open to all area high school women. The Indiana 
Secondary School Administrators, Division of Student Activities, have sanctioned the contest which will include individual and school competitition as well as subject matter competition and com­puter programming competition. Competition will be in Algebra II, Geometry, Advanced Mathematics, and Computer Programming. The annual contest is under the direction of Associate Professor of Mathematics, Don Balka. -Tbe Observer 
The Maria Pieta Award Committee at Saint Mary's is now accepting nominations for the Maria Pieta Award, given to a professor who has made an important contribution to students' education and values, and who has demonstrated commitment to students and to academic quality. Requirements for eligibility are six semesters ofteaching during the years 1982-3, 83-84, 84-85, 85-86, and at least the equivalent of one lower-division course per semester. Nominations should be sent to: Maria Pieta Award Com­mittee, in care of Saint Mary's Freshman Office, 121 LeMans Hall.­
Tbe Observer 

A French Mass will be celebrated Sunday at 1 at the Log Cabin Chapel. All are invited. -Tbe Observer 
Juniors are encouraged to participate in the Class of'87 Day at the Logan Center tomorrow morning from 9 to 11:30. Helping kids decorate easter eggs will be among the many activities involved. 
-Tbe Observer 

The Notre Dame departmentofmusicannouncesNick Morrison in a graduate student clarinet recital. The concert will take place tomorrow at 3 in the Annenberg Auditorium. Morrison will perform works by Carl Maria von Weber, Robert Schumann, Ludwig van Beethoven, Erland von Koch and Francis Poulenc. The concert is free and open to the public. -Tbe Observer 
The International Students organization is 
sponsoring the ISO Festival tomorrow at 7:45p.m. at Washington Hall. The evening will highlight cultural events from all over the world. Admission is free. -Tbe Observer 
St. Patrick's Day Party and Fireworks will be sponsored by the Student Activities Board on Monday at Stepan Center. The party begins at 2 with Irish singers John Kennedy and Friends. From 4 to 7 The Law will perform, followed by the Glee Club and the Irish Dancers at 7. The evening will culminate with fireworks at 10. -Tbe Observer 
Clayton Henderson, chairman ofthe department of music at Saint Mary's, will present a program of"Music from Broad­way and Tin Pan Alley," tonight at 8 in the Little Theatre of Moreau Hall. The program is open to the public and free of charge. -Tbe Observer 
Weather 

Kelly green clouds will not be in the sky today. That's scheduled for Monday. Instead, it will partly cloudy and mild with the high in the lower to middle 50s. Mostly cloudy and cool tonight with a 40 percent chance of showers. Low in the middle to upper 30s. Mostly cloudy Saturday with a a 30 percent chance of showers and the high In the upper 40s. -Tbe Observer 

Design Editor--------·-·--···· Mark Mclaughlin Accent Layout................ Mark Mclaughlin Design Asslsumt ..................Allee Kroeger Special Accent Layout........ Laura Gronek Slotman .................................•............... Roger 
ND Day Editor----··············------··· Bill Herzog Typeuuers -----··------··--··------·Dave Thornton SMC Day Editor............................... ~ Sully 
Mary Ellen Harrington Ad Deslgn _________ ,____ ._._..,_._,_,_._..._ . ._Jesse Pesu News Editor--------·····----···--·-----· Scott Bcarby Fred Nelson CopyEdltor.................................•.. PhU Wolf Allison Fahrenkopf 
Sports Copy Editor··--··--···--···--Larry Burke Typists..........._ .............. Mary Kate D'Amore VIewpoint Copy Editor.•..•.....Sue Dunbar Mary Ellen Harrington VIewpoint Layout...._ ....._._..._,_ Rob Bartolo · Sarah Hamilton Accent Copy Editor-·-·----·--···----Sam Moore Photographer...................._ .._.,_ Paul Kramer 
The O~rver ( l'SPS ~99 l--4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The O~rver is published h)· the students ofthe l'ni\·ersity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptioru. may be purchased for l_i() per year ( llO pc:r semester) by writing The O~rver, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana ~6~%. 
The O~rver is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are r~srrvtd. 
Schlafly's outdated opinions offensive to women and men 
Offensive. 
That's the best adjective to describe Phyllis Schlatly's Tess views after the conservative spokeswoman squared off in debate Tuesday night against activist Sarah Wed­Guarino dington. 
Anyone who walked into Washington Hall before the Saint Mary's Executive Editor debate with an open mind found it hard to do so after about the first three minutes Schlatly opened her mouth. young women a very unrealistic thing ifyou are telling 
Those prepared to oppose Weddington on her pro-them that you can have your career and your babies and choice views saw her appearing rational and, best ofall, your husband, and he's going to share 50-50 in the making sense, compared to Schlatly's harangues against baby's care and the housework." feminists. Hear that, men? And as for women, Schlatly tells us 
But even to say Schlatly opposes feminists is incor-that if we are looking for a "sensitive, compassionate" rect. The feminist movement has come far enough in man, in other words a Phil Donahue-type, to give it up. society that a woman planning a career after graduation He just isn't out there. and marriage is now the norm and does not necessarily Men in the audience should have been even more consider herself a feminist. Schlatly condemns the role offended Tuesday night. Schlatly's view of men in of women now prevalent in general was not too flatter-society, and a role most ing, as she sees them grudg-
I j 

women today are following. ·~ ingly "allowing" their wives
l 

Judging from the audience's \ 1 I ) to work, but certainly not reaction at the lecture, she is ----expecting to take on any fighting a losin~ battle. Women's Moue,11f household responsibilities. 
Schlatly's v1ews can be What Schlatly seems to called offensive after ' overlook is that today hearing her claims that most working outside the home is "feminists" of the seventies an economic necessity for and the eighties can be many women if couples described as lesbians, Mar-want to provide oppor­xists, and "propagators of tunities for their children, promiscuity." such as a college education. 
According to Schlatly, a Perhaps when she attended majority of the followers of &f\.'i school, it was economically the feminist movement are C:J-~" feasible to do so without homosexual, a fact she /1 /I• parental aid. However, this threw out to the response of ~RJHot..T isn't the case anymore. laughter from the audience. :J·I'I In fact, most of Schlatly's Next, anyone who believes views just aren't the case the role of women in the family is changing because of anymore. Perhaps it's time she realized this and stopped economic pressures is a believer in Marxist doctrine. attempting to turn the clock back and stopped en-
Most laughable of all, however, was Schlatly's insis-couraging the patronization ofwomen. tence that the feminist movement of the seventies As shown by this week's lecture series, women have prompted adecade of sexual promiscuity, resulting in come a long way over the past two decades. Views such increased numbers ofherpes victims and abortions. as Schlafly's only can serve to hinder any further 
In other words, in two short hours, Schlatly accused progress. women interested in pursuing a career oftheir own -to utilize the education for which they have just shelled r--=­
out approximately S40,000 -of lesbianism, com-1 See munism and sexual promiscuity. •
sunn1er

Thanks for warning us, Phyllis. H you are not yet convinced, consider these quotes: 0 0 "I wouldn't want you to think I want everyone to get skies · 
married . . . it just leaves more men for those that do want to get II'arried." Support the "We just have to look at the movie Rambo to see the L:: type ofman that young girls today really want." March of Dimes 
-BIRTH DHECTS FOUNDATION­

"When you look at the big picture, you are telling the 

Everythmg for Horse and Rider English & Western 
13th ANNUAL OPEN HOUSE 
MARCH 14, 15, 16 
START THE SEASON OFF WITH SAVINGS ON EVERYTHING, AT LEAST 10o/o 
MANY ITEMS UP TO 50°/o OFF 
Factory Representatives From 
SPECIAL SHIPMENT OF SADDLES CIRCLE Y AND ARABIAN SHOW EQUIPMENT 
-= ATHER SHOW CHAPS IN SIX COLOR 
CONGRESS L ~~ SPECIAL ORDERS TAKEN ULTRA SUEDE 
CRATES SADDLRv-ra~DtJ,~ ~~:iD IN 
MONTANA___ SILVERSMITHS SILVERTOFITEVERYNEED 
MANY NEW STYLES _____THE BEST IN LADIES FASHION. SEE CIRCLE T-THE ENTIRE SUMMER LINE. 
ACME-DAN POST 
REMEMBER EVERYTHING ON SALE FOR THREE DAYS MARCH 14. 15. 16 

55345 Fir Road 518 Mile North of U.S. 20 on Fir RoadMishawaka, IN 46545 Mon. Thru Sat. 10-8 Sun. 10-6(219) 259·1188 
c..,___ 
The Observer Friday, March 14, 1986-page 3 
$800 million of Marcos uncovered; billions still believed to be hidden 

MANILA, Philippines · A govern­ment commission has discovered that ousted President Ferdinand Marcos hid JSOO million in a Swiss bank account, a major step toward locating up to n 0 billion he al· legedly spirited out of the Philippines, an official said yester­day. 
President Corazon Aquino, meanwhile, ordered Philippine banks to freeze all assets held by Marcos, his wife, Imelda, and 31 of his associates. 
Ramon Diaz of the new· Commis· wealth Marcos invested illegally in sion on Good Government an-the United States "in line with nounced discovery ofthe Swiss bank pronouncements previously made account yesterday but refused to by the United States that they will provide details or say how the com-cooperate with the Philippine mission learned of its existence. government." 
Commission head Jovito Salonga Salonga began a 10-day visit to the has estimated that Marcos and his as­United States on Wednesday. He sociates illegally diverted S5 billion plans to collect evidence of Marcos' to J 1 0 billion in national assets to holdings, consult U.S. legal experts overseas accounts and investments. on ways to regain the funds and 
meet with with State Department of­IUul Daza, also a commission offi­ficials, .Daza said. 

cial, told a news conference that the Aquino government is "optimistic Marcos allegedly bought property and hopeful" it will regain any in New York City and Long Island. 


From the pulpit n.e~/PauiKnmer 
Head football coacb Lou Holtz passes down tbe word on tbe 1986 Notre Dame football team in a speecb last nigbt in tbe Howard Hall cbapel. Tbe team begins spring practtce today. 
The Competition Athletic Footwear Specialists 
6301-E University Commons 

S5offany pair of Reebok shoes 
SENIOR FORMAL 
TUXEDO SPECIAL 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. (AP) ·Reports of a prostitution ring allegedly in· volving Brown University students could unfairly tarnish the Ivy League school's image, administrators said yesterday. 
"We certainly have been the butt ofa lot ofvery bad jokes and unwar­ranted conclusions about the morals of our student body," said Robert Reichley, vice president for univer· 
Summer or Fall1986 Summer1987 
WASHINGTON 
OR LONDON INTERNSHIPS 
SUMMER SESSION ONLY at Wad ham College of the University of 
OXFORD 
Accredited courses in government, economics, journalism and pre· law by an outstanding faculty. 
Full Academic Year Programs at the London School of Economics, St. Andrews Universities, for Qualified Juniors and Seniors. 
All credits transferred through Hampden-Sydney College, Virginia (Founded in 1776) 
Inquiries to: Mrs. Janet Kollek, J.D. Admissions Director The Washington International Studies Center 212· 724·0804 or 0136 (EO!AA) 
Prostitutes focus press on Brown 
sity relations. "We're talking about people's lives and reputations and the reputation of Brown." 
Reichley said he and other Brown officials were "very angry" at what the university considers "undue and unfair and unwarranted emphasis on Brown" by the media and Providence police. 
Two Brown seniors were arrested last week on prostitution charges, and Providence police said Wednes­day that photos of eight other former or current Brown women were among the photos of 46 women seized from a home that has become a focal point in the inves· tigation. 
Reichley said it was unfair to focus on the Brown women because they represent a minority of those allgedly involved. He also said there were only six other Brown students identified in the photos, not eight as police said. 
The Investigation has focused on a converted carriage house in a fas. hionable section of Providence near the campus. Police raided the con­dominium last Friday and found more than 100 photos of the 46 women in "various stages of undress." The owner of the home has not been charged. 

Lochmandy Leasing & Rental, Inc. 
IINational Car Rental
ow 

Weekend and Weekly Specials all year round. Need transportation to gel ott campus lor the weekend? check our low rates. Going on a long trip? We have weekly •peclals designed for a sludent's budget. 
One Way Rentals Available to over 1000 locations· allow unlimited mileage rates with no drop charges. Excellent way to get home for vacation at reasonable prices. 
Conveniently Located at the 
We leature GM cars like this Buick Regal. 


Classic Black Tuxedo 
Regularly 544°0 
38.00 
All other tuxedos, tolls and Evan Picone selection 
Regularly $46.00-$57.50 
42.50 
Measurements and style selection at Lafortune Mar.18&19 7-9pm 

FIRST CHOICE, GUARANTEED 
For more Information, call Allen x3218 

on Saturday, March 15 from 10am to 11am 
The 5K run begins at the Fieldhouse Mall and ends in front of O'Shag. 
FREE St. Patrick's Day T-shirt to Glll who fjnish. 
The $1 entry fee can be paid In the dining halls at dinner orat the S.A.B. Offices. 
·u~rtS
~23 W. W""'O-OMoo.·'"-9-S•JD•Soo 9-5 
University ParkiMon.·Sat. 10-9/Sun. 12-5:30 
The Observer Friday, March 14, 1986 -page 4 
Senate candidates unveil priorities, objectives when elected 

By BUD LUEPKE 
SIII/Ireporter 
Tbis ts tbe first of two articles concerning next week's Student Senate election. Today's article focuses on candidates from dis­tricts 1 and 2; Monday's edition willfeature senate opponentsfrom districts 3, 4 and5. 
Communication and action is the battle cry ofStudent Senate hopefuls as candidates gear up their cam­paigns for Tuesday's elections. 
Candidates running for senate posts in districts 1 and 2 said they wanted to increase communication with students and get more ac­complished through the senate. Most candidates also said they have confidence that the newly elected Switek-Montanaro administration will do the job well. 
Co-.ed 
vnntinuedfrom page 1 
became co-ed this semester, accord­
ing to Loux. "If they felt it had 
worked in the first dorm, I did not 
see a problem in having a second 
(co-ed) dorm provided they were 
separated by floor." 
Another concern in the discus­
sion of whether or not to mix 
housing for the second dorm in the 
spring semester was making a 
unified student residence policy, ac­
cording to Loux. "That way you 
could forstall complaints that the 
people in the two dorms were being 
treated differently. The residence 
staff desired a consistent housing 
policy for all students of the 
program," he said. 
"Surely it isn't the situation that 
exists on campus," said Loux. "I 
think special circumstances justify 
co-ed dorms. (London is) a totally 
different kind of situation. They go 
to plays In the evening and have 
evening classes. It's a completely dif­
ferent kind ofcontext. 
"You can't extrapolate the policy 
there to campus," he added. 
Kaplan 
LSATPREP... 
BE OVER40 
8tLOVEIT! 
No matter what your age, ifyou 
plan on going to law school, a 
score over 40 can put spring In 
your step! 
You see, candidates who scorE'! 
between 40 and 48 on the new 
Law School Admission Test enjoy 
the best chance ofbelng ac­
cepted to the law school oftheir 
choice and going on to practice 
with top firms orcorporations. 
At the Stanley H. Kaplan 
Educational Center, LSM prepa­
rationis a fine art. So much 
so that Kaplan has more "over 
405" grads than any other test prep 
fum In the nation. 
I
Isn't that justthe test edge your law career deserves? 
KAPLAN 
® 
STANLfY H KAPLAN fDUCATICNAl GNTER LTD 
The worlds leading test prep organization. 
Call Days, Evenings, Even Weekends 
1717 E. South Bend Ave 
South Bend In 46637 
(219) 272-4135 
For Information Regarding 
Over 120 Centers OUTSIDE N.Y. STATE CALL TOLL FREE 1110-223·1782 p~ration for the LSM and over 30 other standarized examinations 
--............. _ 

Brian Holst, who is running for district 1 senator, said communica­tion with students is his priority. "Few students know who their senator is," he said. Holst, a sop­homore from Holy Cross, said if elected he will propose a Senate Ad­visory Council in which each senator will meet with an appointed representative from each of the dorms in that district. 
Holst said that while he believes the senate structure has its flaws, he will try to work within the system. However, he said, "I want to define the role of student government, make it more efficient." 
Holst has served as a parliamen­tarian ofthe Student Life Council the last two years and was chairman of the Committee for Restructuring the Senate. 
Pat Kiernan, a freshman from Holy Cross, opposes Holst for the disrict 1 
......................................... . 
post. Kiernan said he wants to change the alcohol policy, which, he says, "was made without much thought." Kiernan said he wouldHke to see more alcohol-related events on campus. "Alcohol is a major part ofstudent life," he said. 
Kiernan said he wants to reduce penalties for parietals violations and streamline the senate. "We need to re-define the role of the Hall Presi­dents' Council," he said. Kiernan said the senate should have more power in campus-wide representa­tion, while the HPC should be confined to dorm representation. 
Kiernan said Switek should be "fun for a change" and that his ad­ministration would do "just as well as Domagalski and Dink." 
In district 2, john Gardiner, a junior from Stanford, said he is running on the two issues of improving campus social life and getting ·a voice in the 

,.,

,.The Nazz Co•petition is co•lng ••• 
A chance for student bands and musicians to compete for fame and recognition. 
On Friday, April 4th you will compete for: 
*CASHPRIZES!
*A postion in the Saturday showcase 
~ormance (April 5th) *A cliunce to play with 
MAX WEINBERG,
' 

BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN'S DRUMMER! 
Registration Is at the front desk of the Student Government Oftlces from March 11 to March 16. 
QUESTIONS? Call Liz 283-2985 
-..... ~ 
administration in student affairs. Gardiner said the unity gained by an improved social life could be used to overcome a "too restrictive" admin­istration. 
Gardiner also stressed communi­cation with students in his district and said that student government can work "the way it is if we stop trying to change it and get someth­ing done." 
Gardiner, who described himself as a "lunch pail candidate," said he offers no promises but will "work his tail oft:" 
Tom Vasti contests Gardiner and slates senate improvement as his primary goal if elected. Vasti, a sop­homore from Cavanaugh, said he wants to remove "special interests groups" such as the treasurer, the Student Activities Board andjudicial Board, from the senate. Also on Vasti's platform are a proposal for a Budget Committee and a more 
anyway," Ferrick said. 

Ferrick said that when the hall staff suggested both dorms may go co-ed in the spring semester, there was concern among the students that two separate groups would form."The dorms are two blocks apart," said Ferrick, "but the group 
representative senate with better communication. "Five senators really don't get in touch with dorms," he said. 
Vasti said the Switek election represents a "new wave ofa positive feeling and more interest in student government. We were lucky in get­ting these two." 
Rounding out district 2 is Pete Witty, also a sophomore from Cavanaugh. Witty also said he wants to improve communication bet­ween students and government by more representation. Witty said a big problem on campus is the "negative attitude" between stu­dents and·the administration, and he would work to improve student relations with the administration. 
"As a senator, my job is to represent the students in my dis­trict. I will do this by com­municationg the ideas of the people I represent," he said. 
always socialized together. The guys always had to walk over." 
Ferrick said no problems oc­curred among the group members because of the co-ed sitaution. "I don't think much more would have gone on than would in a single dorm." 

Last semester, a rectress lived on the lower floor of the West Two Hotel with the men, according to Tom Szromba, who just returned from London. Szromba lived in the other residence, the Princess Square Hotel. Szromba said all the women of the group were housed in the West Two. Fred Nelson, who also lived in Princess Square, said the West Two was a little more uptight than his dorm. "Ours was more laid­back." 
Mike Ferrick lived in the West Two last semester. He said, "Parietals were pretty much non­existent for everybody, even the guys in the other dorm. Guys stayed over in girls' rooms, and girls stayed in guys' rooms." 
Ferrick said he thinks everybody was pleased with the situation. "I don't know anyone who was dis­satisfied. Everybody was pretty positive. 
"The guys who didn't get into the co-ed dorm were pretty (upset) at first. Later they said it was no big deal, they found out they could stay over (at the women's dorm) 
FRIDAY The boys ere beck 11.~ ~ wlth the $3000 SAXI A1so. M1 xed Dnnks & Drafts are only 75c SATURDAY 
. rnore 11.~ ~, come out 
for the best l1ve mus1c 1n Mlchtanal 
ij 


,.. ,., 
Bruce Springsteen's Drummer 
MAX WEINBERG 
I 

will soon be at Notre Dame. 
Max will first show a documentary film ofthe Bom in the U.S.A. tour (made by 
N.F.L. Films). He will then talk about his experiences with Bruce on the road. And finally, Max Weinberg wlll jam with the finest ofNotre Dame's musicians chosen from the students at the Nazz competition. 
MAX is coming Aprill2. 
,.. 
"11111 

Sponsored by the Student Activities Board 
~ 
""' 


The Observer Friday, March 14, 1986 -page 5 

Tbe Saint Patrick's Uay "Paddy Wagon" route "Four Corners" bar area, and tbe corners of wt/1 Include stops at LeMans Hall, tbe Notre Dame Howard/~t. Louis andLeeland/[!ex. Story at right. Ltbrary Circle, Campus View, Turtle Creek, tbe 

BUOWEISERe•KING OF BEERSe•ANHEUSER·BUSCH, INC.•ST. LOUIS 
Paddy wagon to allow drinking, not driving 
ByKENDRA LEE MORRILL 
News.Staff 
On Monday Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will celebrate the first on­campus St. Patrick's Day in I 0 years. Saint Mary's student government has a plan to ensure that the celebration is a safe one for partying students. 
The student government Is spon­soring a "paddy wagon" which wlll transport students from the bars and off-campus parties back to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Jeanne Heller, Saint Mary's stu­dent body president-elect, originated the idea of the paddy wagon, and she Is in charge of the program along with Kathleen Juckniess, the Notre Dame/Saint .Mary's Hall Presidents' Council Representative. 
Said Juckniess, "The Saint Mary's student government realizes there could be a problem (with drinking and driving)," and so It Is taking steps to minimize the problem. 
According to Jucknless, the Idea of transportation from bars and parties on St. Patrick's Day was presented. to the Saint Mary's Programming Board by Heller, and It was very well received. It was then approved by the student govern­ment advisors, and the plan was set In motion. It Is strictly a student-run project,Jucknless added. 
The paddy wagon Is free of charge, and only a Notre Dame or Saint Mary's ID is needed to ride, Juckniess said. The wagon wlll ac­tually be a bus provided by J & E Transit, which also will provide the driver. She said the hours of opera­tion will be from 8 p.m. until 2 a.m., with the bus leaving every half-hour from LeMans Hall at Saint Mary's. 


The Obeuver aewe depal'tlaeat le aow acceptlag appUcatlo.. for the foUowlag poettloae: 
Asst.tant News Editor Copy Editor Day Chief 
Applfcatlona are due Friday at 5 p.m. Contact Frank Llpo at The Observer offtre orat 239-5303 for further Information. 
Throwaway that Ohio 1.0. card! Steve Pampbush is legal! 
Happy 21st! 
-Andy, Paul, Fred &Lori 

The Graduate School of Business-• at the University of Notre Dame 
Presents:________.. 
Mr. Ira Herbert-----• The Executive Vice President of Coca-Co/a USA 
TOPIC: Marketing Strategies­Coca-Cola 
F.riday March 14 rm. 122 Hayes-Healy -4:15pm. 
---~-~--~~~-----.. 
The Observer Friday, March 14, 1986 -page 6 
·­

Tickets focus on fun 

The Obecrvcr/Paul Kramer

Have a date? 
Saint Mary's students Mary Giannicchi and terday in the LeMans Hal/lobby for the traditional Sarah Burtis were not offering dates for the upcom­seniorevent. ing Senior Formal, but they were selling tickets yes-
ND students become 'Grenadans' 
By CLIFF STEVENS 
News Staff 
This is the first in a series of two articles dealing with the Notre Dame class and off-campus elec­tions to be held next week. Today's articlefocuses onjuniorandsenior class tickets and off-campus can­didates. In Monday's edition sop­homore class tickets will be highlighted. 
Sensing students' desire for fun in student government from the stu­dent body president race results, class office and off-campus commis­sioner candidates are stressing so­cial events in their campaign plans. 
The senior class office ticket of Mark Foley, Kevin Daly, Meg McGlinn and Mike O'Grady, listed in the order of president, vice­president, secretary and treasurer, plans to make a difference on the campus social scene, according to Foley. 
"I would like to encourage all seniors to put on their drinking Elizabeth Kennedy and Thomas Hudak, also listed in the same order as above, plans to build on its past experience with new enthusiasm and ideas, said Nonnenkamp. 

"We've had the experience, yet 
we  have  new  people  and  new  
blood," she said.  
Off-campus  commissioner  can­ 

didate Mark Peabody cited consis­tency as his major goal if elected. "I'll be consistent the whole year and keep trying for more money and keep trying for more events," he said. 
"The focus should be on the events for off-campus people," said Peabody. 
Candidate Steve Taeyaerts said he considers one person inadequate for the off-campus commissioner posi­tion. "Why shouldn't off-campus stu­dents have the same representation as those on campus?" he asked. 
He said Mary Kay Steinmetz, Mark Conces, and Kate Mullaney will share the responsibilities of the office ifelected. 
"This job (off-campus commis­
shoes, because if we get elected, By ROB HENNIG Markey, Notre Dame's head Notre Dame student Paul Komyatti 
sioner) has been a blow-off for many
we're going to go out in style," he News Staff delegate. The Notre Dame students was selected as best delegate of a
people, only resume-filling," said
said. will be representing the country of committee last year. 
candidate "Race" Thoman. "I have
"The slogan 'Tradition with a shot The Latin America Studies Grenada in plenary sessions, com­Ruccio said the Kellogg Institute 
no intention to do that," she said.
of the unexpected' refers to the ex­Program and the Kellogg Institute mittee meetings, informal caucusing paid the registration fee for this
Thoman said her past off-campus
perience that all four on our ticket are sponsoring a student delegation and opening and closing year's simulation, while the students
planning experience makes her
have acquired through the years, to the Seventh Annual Model ceremonies. raised their living expenses. Markey 
"better than the other two can­
and the unexpected are the exciting said, "We went around to different
General Assembly of the Organiza­
didates."
and unusual events we have planned Among the committee topics are
tion ofAmerican States next week. departments," ra~smg ap­Ombudsman Election Officer
for our class if elected," said Dave judicial and political affairs, proximately Sl,OOO.
Tom Brennan said because
Miklos ofthe Miklos, Melissa Moody, The simulation, which hasover 40 economic and social affairs and In addition to raising funds,
Taeyaerts four-person plan is "the
Fred Nelson and Ed LaHood senior universities in the United States par­educational, scientific and cultural Markey said participating students
same thing" as selecting a cabinet,
class office ticket, listed in the same ticipating, will be held in Was­affairs. Members of the delegation have been meeting since January.
there are no rules against it. 
order as above. hington, D.C., at the headquarters of will be presenting resolutions from "We are in the process ofwriting the Increased communication with But he is "90 percent" certain the the Organization ofAmerican States the viewpoint ofthe present govern­resolutions," he said. students through quad representa­Ombudsman Election Committee (OAS) next Monday through Friday. ment ofGrenada. "These kids have done an amazing tives is a major goal of the junior will reject Taeyaert's proposal to in­job of getting themselves organized
The OAS is sponsoring the event
class ticket of Matthew Dolan, clude his additional running mates Notre Dame's delegation includes in so short a tim~" said Scott Main­
to enhance understanding of the
Daniel Walsh, Kevin Lee and on the ballot. Patrick Markey, Joseph Schaefer, waring, co-faculty coordinator and
body and its goals, which include
Thomas Hudak. "He is the one running for office," Jodie Githens, Thomas McDonald, assistant professor of government.
sharing, friendship and cooperation,
"We're not politicians, we're stu­Brennan said. Miguel Gomez, Pablo Czarnik, Kathy He said the delegates have been
according to Edgar Maya, director of
dents willing to work hard so you Class office and off-campus com­Nemsick, Tom Sullivan, Pablo Iter­reading about Grenada and the
the Model General Assembly for thecan play," said Dolan. missioner elections will be held ralde and Gilbert Marxuach. 
inter-American system. The junior class ticket of Cathy Tuesday, with run-offs on Thursday, "The whole ideal is that we OAS. In describing how the delegates
"The OASis very much interestedNonnenkamp, Mike Kurowski, 
ifnecessary. represent our country," said were chosen, Mainwaring said, "I
in coming to the classroom," said made an announcement in the class
Maya. "Since we cannot go to the reason that we can't say, 'Hi. How them in my room. I'm not happy universities, we bring the univer­on Central America that I am teach­
about that." ing." Markey said of the delegates,
Leaders 

are you?' We're informal guys." 
sities to us." 
"All ofthem have an interest in Latin 

continued/rom page 1 Switek hastened to say, "They Maya said there are 34 schools America."
have couches too, you know." Switek is a junior who hails from representing American govern­to classes instead of looking at the They told of the "great rapport" Houston, Texas. He said, "I don't Ruccio said, "We've given them a
ments, approximately seven univer­lot of responsibility." Mainwaringsidewalk," Montanaro said. they have already developed with own an oil wt'll and I've never lived sities observing and 22 others on a agreed, explaining that the students
"We have a number of ideas on the HPC, adding, "We have yet to at­on a ranch." However, being a geol­waiting list. will not be examined by professors, 
how to accomplish this," Switek tend a Student Senate meeting, but ogy major, he says he hopes one day "Notre Dame came last year and 
added. "They are too elaborate to we'd like to see them be informal to work in oil and "pound rocks." but, "They will be tested by their
esablished a presence of academic explain. Just keep yu.:r eyes open." too." 
peers and colleagues in Washington, quality," said Maya. "Their presence D.C."

He also expressed a desire to With regard to other campus or­Montanaro was born just outside was felt." 
Mainwaring said, "I expect that"look into the common complaint ganizations, Switek said, "The Ob­Philadelphia and lived there until he According to David Ruccio, co­

concerning the lack of diversity in server is our friend, we can't afford started high school. He then moved faculty coordinator of the Notre this group will be equally good (as last year's delegation). It's a really
the student body." to alienate the press." Montanaro to Connecticut and presently Dame delegation and director of terrific group ofstudents."
Because of the way spring and continued, "They're spinning some resides in Naperville, Ill. He is a sop­Latin American Studies, former 
Easter break fall this year, the Switek great tunes at WVFI, but I can't hear homore government major. administration won't be able to name a full cabinet until after break. They are running a full-page ad­
ATIP 0' TH'
vertisement in The Observer for cabinet members. The ad features 

HAT TO Yt
their crayon logo. Switek said, "We've contacated some ofthe other candidatesfor stu­

IRISH! 
dent body president to apply for positions in our cabinet." Mon­

ironwood 
tanaro added, "We figured that if 
they were interested enough to run 
liquors
for student government then they 

1725 NORTH IRONWOOD ROAD
should be concerned enough to 

SOUTH BEND. INDIANA 46635 

continue in any way they can. +-------------------~-.~~------------,2191272-7144------+ "Student government will not be a club this year. We're not going to tum away anyone who is interested in helping." In order to prepare to take the reins of student government after break, they have immersed them­
selves in files from the past 10 years. These files concern such topics as old budget reports, old Hall Presi­
dents' Council and Student Senate minutes, and special projects reports. 
"We'll be here over break to do research and meet with University administrators," Switek said. 
"We're people and the administra­tion are people too. 1fwe treat them with the proper amount of respect we expect them to do the same." 
Montanaro added, "lf we go to them with adverse attitudes, then we'll see closed doors. We see no 



The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following positions: 
Assistant Viewpoint Editor 
Questions about this position should be directed to Scott Bearby. Personal statements and resumes are due Friday, March 14at 5 p.m. 


-

~i~~~_()__i_ll__t___________________Fri_d~_,M_~_ch-14-,1-98-6~-p-age_s 
Fight for justice at ND ends in short term solution 
Who says there's no justice in the world? 
My grueling parking ticket saga mercifully ended Wednesday and I'm now the proud owner of I 0 bucks I had already written olfas spent. And just in time to place a long-shot bet on Notre Dame to win the NCAA tournament, I might add. 
MikeWUkins here, there and back 
To refresh your memories, about three weeks ago I was given a parking ticket for parking in the pay lot behind the Center for Continuing Education. I had paid my 75 cents to park in this lot but received a ticket anyway. Angered by this obvious injustice, I awarded my annual Pest of the Year Award to Notre Dame Security for giving me a ticket for parking in a lot I had actually paid money to park in. This was no small matter, either, con­sidering that Security had to beat out Mike Bobinski, developer ofour wonderful basket­ball ticket-distribution system. 
Since no one from Security was moved enough by the award I had bestowed on them to tear up my ticket and call things even, I had to go through the appeal process if I wanted to see justice done. I started byfilling out a writ­ten appeal form in which I outlined the reasons why I thought the ticket was unfair. 
Apparently my appeal for justice fell ondeaf ears (or blind eyes, as the case may be) be­cause about a week after I filed my appeal I got 
Phelps deserves credit for his coaching efforts 
DearEditor: 

In response to the Bob Fitzgerald-Paul Kotecki sophomorish armchair-coach column of March 12. Gentlemen, before you foam at the mouth about your self-proclaimed knowledge of college basketball, let me first quote a columnfound in a Chicago newspaper the same day I read your half-page insult to college ball. "North Carolina and Duke are both probably 15 points better (than Notre Dame), and both games were wire jobs." "Digger Phelps makes veryfew mistakes in the white-knuckle period ofa game." (That means the end of the game, guys.) " ... there's no doubt he's an outstanding bench coach." These comments came from Al McGuire. I'm sorry Fitzgerald and Kalecki, in case you might not know, he's considered to be one of the best coaches and most knowledgeable men the game has ever seen. I think he used to coach Marquette. Correct me ifI'm wrong. 
By the way, did anyone ever tell you that 
Doonesbury 

a letter telling me it had been denied. Thatwas about all the letter told me,too. No mention was made ofwhy I lost the appeal or ofthe fact that I had the right to make an oral appeal. All the letter said was that I lost the appeal and that if I didn't pay the -ticket, it would be charged to my student account. Luckily, in snooping around for material for my earlier column, I found out that I could make an oral appeal ifI lost the written appeal. I don't know if everyone learns this when they first file an appeal, but I certainly couldn't tell just by reading the response to my written appeal. 
Anyway, I scheduled an oral appeal and showed up in the Administration Building to pave the way for justice to be done. But fight­ing for justice isn't all it's cracked up to be. I had to wait in the hallway outside the room where the appeals were being heard while ot­her students fought their way for justice. On the walls in this hall are a number of portraits of apparently famous priests. Each of the portraits looks right at you, no matter where you move in the hall. 
AU these portraits talk to you, too. The first one I sat across from was ofan old stern priest who looked like he used to assign penance for violations ofthe old "lights out" policy backin the good old days. I could hear him saying to me, "Michael, my son. Pay the ticket and redeem yourself" I decided to wait down the hall. 
The second portrait I sat across from was of 
an old Irish-looking priest, the kind you ex­
pect to see cheering at football games or nip­
ping Irish whiskey on St. Patrick's Day. He said to me, "Mikey me boy. Stop this foolishness. Go out and do something constructive with your time. The world is passin' you by and all you can worry about is this silly traffic ticket. Go on now, boy. Do something with your life and stop this playin' around." 
Finally, it was my turn. One ofthe members of the board stuck his head out the door and called my name. I felt like Mr. Brown, that poor little guy in the First Source Bank com­mercial who is waiting to get a loan and the bank officer comes out the door and says, "Come in Mr. Clown," and the name "Clown" echoes down the hall. 
Despite my fears, the appeal itself was the easiest part of the whole process. I walked in, sat down and very informally told the appeal board why I thought the ticket was a crock. They asked me a couple ofquestions and that wa5 it. Then they had me step out in the hall (where the stern priest and the Irish priest were discussingwhy I would never amount to anything andwould surely end up in hell), and quickly returned with a favorable answer. 
But all is not happiness in the parking lots of our humble campus. It seems that Security is planning on posting a sign at the CCE lot in­forming students that they are not allowed to park there. Though this solves the short-term problem of students being unaware that they are not allowed to park in that lot, it ignores the major issue. Students and faculty will still not be allowed to park in this lot, even though there is a real need to make these spaces available to those individuals who feel like in­vesting 75 cents in a parking space. 

P.O.BoxQ 
basketball, like most other sports, is won with defense and not offense? If you were to ask those who play the game, you would find out that Phelps normally substitutes for defensive reasons and not because a player missed a shot. Missing defensive assignments hurts teams more than missed shots. N.C. State won the national championship game not because Houston missed crucial free throws, but be­cause 1 ) Houston tried to stall halfway through the second half, 2) N.C. State played aggressive defense, and 3) Akeem Olajuwon didn't box out Cozell McQueen at the end. The Cougars were physically superior to the Wolfpack, but N.C. State was mentally toug­her. 
Ironically, you make analogous statements between that game and the Notre Dame-Duke game, but for the wrong reasons. The reason we almost won the game was because of the intelligent decisions of the coach and players not because of the panic and fouls of Duke toward the end of the game. Instead, the Irish played subdued but tight defense while Duke toyed with the 45-second clock. If not for some uncanny last second shots by Danny Ferry, the game would have been ours. Put a 45-second clock in the Houston-N.C. State game and Jim Valvano wouldn't have put the Cougars on the line as much as he did. Oh yeah, defensive play. Wasn't that a great defensive play byJohnny Dawkins to save the game for Duke? 
MR. ()I}VAUER, /XJ )(){)  Pitt.!., FOR INSTANCE,  
THINK Y()(JR Wlft's IU­TIMW wml(464~  HER LEAVING FOR. A If. 7MIUION 5HOPPIN6  lt.7M/UION? SH&5P&NT  
(J)NT!?J8l!TW 7D YaJR  SPR/3& IN PARJ5 IA/Hil£  1!.7MIUION  
RNA!. fXJ«/NFil/..1... ~ \  HAITI  INTHtMitnT A SeVE/?& &CONOM/C  IN PAI<IS? /  

Phelps has proven himself as a master in preparing his team not onlyfor each game, but also for life after basketball. He is a credit to Notre Dame and college basketball. Many a time he has taken physically outmanned squads to victories over more talented teams. Even this year one can point to Syracuse, Maryland, and De Paul as teams the Irish have beaten who are blessed with more naturally talented athletes than Notre Dame. But bas­ketball is as much mental as it is physical. Phelps, throughout the years, has molded mentally tough tean.s, and this year the Irish will win NCAA tourney games because they will be mentally tougher than their op­ponents, not because they'll be physically bet­ter. 
A teacher, a man of class, and a premiere coach, Phelps will lead Notre Dame to 
Garry Trudeau 
/JM.. I [}{)NT 
KNOW. I'D RATH&R. WT6t.T CA/JGHT IN THE 
Mf[)[)U3 Hf3/?&. 
/ 
'lbough posting signs does solve some problems, other solutions could solve the real problem. The CCE lot should be made available to students and faculty who oc­casionally decide to use this lot for whatever reason. They will have to pay 75 cents justlike everyone else, so there is no real bargain here. However, when people in the CCE expect a large crowd and are worried about there being enough space in the lot, signs could be posted prohibiting student and faculty parking for that day. 
This is a very simple solution that manages to keep everyone happy. The students and faculty are happy because they have a more convenient place to parkwhen the need really arises. The people in the CCE are happy be­cause they have all their available spaces when they are truly needed. The administra­tion is happy because they are now pulling in 75 cents (every little bit helps, you know) from each student and faculty member who does not want to walk from Senior Bar to campus when it is 30below zero outside. And security is happy because they can now stop writing all these asinine tickets to students and faculty who make use of this lot, and get onto something really important -like writing tickets to people who park in the library circle for more than 30 minutes. 
What? And force me to take back my Pest of the Year Award? We should be so lucky. 
Mike Wilkins is a Notre Dame law student and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
headlines when the NCAA tourney ends. 
Theodore E. Mandell Flanner Hall 
Steinem cancels speech, hopes to be rescheduled 

DearEditor: 
I just started out for the airport for the second time today, my first Chicago flight being cancelled by fog, and this time I'm not going to make it. 
I've finally been cancelled by flu. You know all those newspaper symptoms of head pains, then stomach pains, then you can't function anymore? Well they're true. In almost 20 years I've rarely cancelled anything, but this time I'll have to. 
But here's my deal with you. Ifyou can res­
chedule, I promise to move heaven and earth 
to get there. 
I've been looking forward very much to 
being with you. Now I'll be looking forward 
twice as much. Please let me know. 
Gloria Steinem 
Campus quote 

"It's going to be toughfor us to win it all ... we're going to have to have it all together to beat the type ofcompetition that's spread across the country." 
Richard "Digger" Phelps 1981 


Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager ...................... David Stephenitch 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
News Eaitor .............................................Frank Upo Controller ............................. William J. Highducheck 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCulloug, Advertising Manager .............................. Jim Hagan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Advertising Manager ....................Anne M. Culligan Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the 
Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb Systems Manager ......................... Mark B. Johnson administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­
Accent Editor ........................ ................ Mary Healy Production Manager ....................... John A. Mennell Sible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­VIewpoint Editor . . .......................... . ..... Joe Murphy Photography Manager....................... Tripp Baltz 
tanes, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is 
Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Wotf available to aH members of the community and the free expreSSion of varying opinions on 
campus. through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1966 





'·-­
l . 

When Irish eyes are 
all 
smiles 
ND and SMC celebrate first St. Pat's Day since '80 
LISA YOUNG 
featuN!s sen tor stuff 
A 
sk your favorite leprechaun where his 
favorite place to spend his favorite 
holiday is, excluding Ireland. Ofcourse! 
The land ofclass lists full ofO'Brien's and 
McNamara's, Sean's and Erin's, the home 
of the Fighting Irish-Notre Dame. How 
many Irish eyes wish that they could be 
within gazing distance of the golden dome 
for the holiday of holidays-St. Patrick's 
Day. 

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students 
should consider themselves lucky. The 
last time spring break was not scheduled 
over St. Patrick's Day was in 1980 and 
before that, 1975. 
This is the first St. Paddy's Day, 
however, that will be celebrated since the 
alcohol policy went into effect. Says 
Associate Vice President for Residence 
Ufe John Goldrick, "The alcohol policy is 
in effect on St. Patrick's Day (just as it is 
on any other day) so we would expect 
'celebrations' to take that fact into ac­
count. It's my understanding that quite a 
number of non-alcohol events are being 
planned and that seems a good sign." 
But even prior to the alcohol policy, St. 
Patrick's Day celebrations were not 
campus-wide beer bashes, as might be 
Imagined. Gatherings in honor of the 
occasion were small and in private rooms. 
True, Corby's did run an ad in 1980 
promising an opening time of 7 a.m. 
Ten-cent green beers were available, with a 5-cent increase every hour until noon. Thirty-five-cent beers continued throug­hout the day. Administrators still shudder upon mentions of that day. 
St. Patrick's Day In 1975 marked a very special day Indeed. It was the day that, as Emil T. Hofman, dean of Freshman Year of Studies, says, "Notre Dame became the nation's capital." The university was host to former President Gerald Ford. 
The president was invited by Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president. Classes were canceled for a morning convocation. A press conference was held, and Ford spoke to the student body that evening. 
The University was in session in 1967, 1969 and 1970. This time period saw as the center ofSt. Pat's Day celebrations a small bar named Sweeney's. Located on Main Street, a 1970 ad for Sweeney's promised 30 kegs and that everything would be green -even bottled beer. The magic pass to enter Sweeney's was a green swizzle stick, and nearly every Notre Dame student found one to bring. 
But a 1986 St. Patrick's Day will be as changed as the times. Student Activities Board Special Events Commissioner Steve Morita says that plans for St. Pat's Day began about a month and a half ago. "We have some really good ideas to get the campus into the spirit of the day. We wanted to turn the dome green, but we ran into some administrative problems," says Morita. SAB, student government, and 
Saint Mary's have, however, planned a weekend full ofevents. The celebration kicks off today with two disc jockeys spinning tunes from 2 
p.m. until 6 p.m. Sophomore Matt Highbarger will be set up on the Fieldhouse Mall, and "The Fresh Cut D)'s," Scott Flora and Kevin Fiorito, will be outside South Dining Hall. Such refresh­ments as green lemonade, green-iced doughnuts, and hot chocolate will be served. 
There are no plans for a parade, but tomorrow's "St. Pat's Day Irish Run" will fill in the open time slot. A Sl entry fee can be paid upon registration in the dining halls or before the run on Saturday. L 
l 

Those who plan to run in the 5K race A.. must meet at Stepan Center at I 0:30a.m. \_ ' 
The festivities continue on Sunday with a "Pre-St. Patrick's Day Bash." This event will include a brunch with a "New York" parade theme and will feature a disc 
jockey. It will be held from noon to 4 p.m. at Stepan Center (North Dining Hall will be closed.) 
And then Monday-St. Patrick's Day, 1986. Again at Stepan Center events are planned, from 2 to 11 p.m. Snacks and desserts will be provided by Universitv Food Services. Entertainment will in-
see ST. PAT'S, page l 
Oilllft"t.J311': 0 j(~ ".lilT~ :y~:-;,.•~"'"" • ~"'' ··~~· "',Tr~l"lllil~~~-:...~_&OI!'li':'Uftp..., l~U _ 
"Y.til.......,...,,.l!" IOI!a..lll"!"'"'"" -,.-.,,_.,, -.,..f,':.O::.:to••illl~--...... ---~-~...,. 
Happenings-page 2 
He showed God to captors 
SUSAN BUCKLEY 
features writer 

M 
arch 17 is a day celebrated 
grandly not only in Ireland but 

throughout the world. It is the day 
dedicated to St. Patrick, a prisoner 
and slave in a foreign land who later 
returned to his captors, converted 
them to Christianity and became 
their national apostle. 
Many legends surround St. 

Patrick and leave specific details of 
his life relatively obscured. The 
year ofhis birth is generally 
believed to be 3 73, and the place is 
believed to be somewhere in 
Roman Britain, probably not far 
from the Irish Sea. His father, Cal· 
purnius, was a decurion, a certain 
class of Roman senator, who col· 
lected imperial taxes in his district 
and had good social standing. Both 
ofSt. Patrick's parents were pious 
Christians who worked to instill 
their faith in their children. 
Several stories exist which tell of 

extraordinary miracles performed 
by St. Patrick during his childhood. 
One of them shows the reason for 
his devotion to the Blessed Trinity 
and to the Sign ofthe Cross. He and 
his sister, Lupita, were out walking 
one day when she fell and cut her 
head on a stone. She lay as though 
dead, and her brother, in fear and 
sorrow, made the sign of the cross 
on her wound. Immediately she was 
healed, and she got up and walked 
home with her brother in perfect 
health except for the scar that 
remained as testimony to the 
miracle. 
The truth ot this and other stories is uncertain, however, as St. Patrick's own account ofhis · childhood is strongly di1ferent. In his "Confessions," he writes, "We departed away from God and kept not his commandments and were not obedient to our priests who used to admonish us for our salva· tion." 
Whatever the case, St. Patrick was soon to become a very strong and devout Christian. At the age of 16 he was captured at his father's home and led, with thousands of others, into captivity in ireland. Wild raiders had arrived from the Irish coast to bum houses, kill families and take prisoners. 
St. Patrick was sold as a slave and worked for six years tending sheep and swine on the hills ofAntrium. It was during these years that St. Patrick turned more and more to his religion. "Now after I arrived in Ireland tending flocks was my daily occupation and constantly I used to pray in the daytime. The love of God and the fear of Him increased more and more and faith grew and the spirit was roused so that in one day I would say as many as a hundred prayers and at night nearly as many, eve.n while I stayed out in the woods and on the mountain," he wrote. 
St. Patrick says that he was chas­
tened and humbled by hunger and 
nakedness. But it was also during 
this time that Patrick learned the 
Irish language, customs and charac· 
ter. He saw in the Irish people a 
keen appreciation ofthe beautiful and pure. He began to understand and love them. 
St. Patrick was led to his escape by a voice that came in his dreams. Supposedly it was an angel named Victor, the guardian angel of Ireland, who told him when.the ship was ready for him. St. Patrick made a 200-mile journey over land and then traveled by sea to finally return to his home. 
While at home, St. Patrick had the vision that determined the course ofhis life. "And there I saw in a vision ofthe night, a man, as it were, coming from Ireland whose name was Victoricus with letters in· numerable. And he gave me one of these and I read the beginning of the letter containing this title: The Voice ofThe Irish. And while I was 
reciting the beginning ofthe letter I 
thought at the same moment I 
heard the voices ofthose people 
.... And they cried ou·t thus as if 
from one mouth: 'We beseech thee, 
holy youth, to come and walk once 
more among us.' ·· 
St. Patrick went out at once to 
prepare t'or his mission. He labored, 
fasted, prayed and did penance. He 
underwent severe monastic train· 
ing until he was eventually con· 
secrated a bishop and sent, once 
again, to Ireland. 
There, he worked among the 
Irish, preaching the Gospel and 
organizing the Christian church 
"even to the outmost districts 
beyond which no man lived and 
where nobody had ever come to 
baptize or to ordain clergy or to 
confirm the people." Many legends 
ND' s spirit all in the leprechaun 
J. CHRISTOPHER MURPHY 
features writer 

'"r he leprechaun, with his fiery 
I ~ stare and clinched hands, toget· her with the "Fighting Irish" nickname, are the very essence of the spirit which has made Notre Dame a name known the whole world over. Surprisingly, they are not the original mascot and nickname ofthe University, but the legacy ofservice built by the stu· dents who have served as the leprechaun throughout the years has established it as one ofthe most famous university mascots in the United States. 
In fact, Notre Dame's mascot used to be an Irish Terrier clothed in a monogram sweater, and the "Fighting Irish" ofNotre Dame used to be the "Catholics.'' The legends ofthese two traditions vary accord· ing to the source. 
The exact year that the leprec­haun was first used is hard to trace. The addition to the cheerleading squad seems to have occured in the late '60s. The leprechaun is first pictured in the 1972 Dome year· book. Since then, the leprechaun's stature has grown to its present popularity. 
St. Pat's 
continuedfrom page 1 
cludeJohn Kennedy, an Irish singer; The Law, a campus band; and per­formances by the Glee Club and Saint Mary's Irish singers and dan· cers. The band Cold Drinks will perform from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. The occasion will have a nightclub atmosphere and is, again, free to students. 
The weekend's finale will take place at 10 p.m. A half-hour-long fireworks display will be fired from Stepan. Although the optimum location for this event would be the north side ofthe 14th floor ofthe library, wherever you are you'll be able to enjoy this spectacle. 
All ofthese events are the joint efforts ofMorita, Chris Lyon, SAB, 
This year's leprechaun,Jeff An· hut, promotes enthusiasm and tradition at many athletic events. The traditional Irish jig, which is taught to the leprechaun, is danced at times ofextreme jubilation. The wooden shillelagh, a hammer, is passed down from leprechaun to leprechaun. "The shillelagh I have is the same one that every leprechaun has had," says Anhut. 
Anhut has also added some ofhis own stunts to the leprechaun's repertoire. Walking on his hands and a series ofback hand-springs are a must for this year's leprec· haun. One ofAnhut's claims to fame is the "hat trick." "I tried it, it worked, and it got a big response," says Anhut. It was •· · •ontaneous action but has become a regular part ofthe leprechaun's football routine. 
Working in a stadium is tough. "You have to remember that you're in a stadium and you have to make things as big as possible," says An· hut. In the basketball arena things are tough, but in a different way. "You have a lot less room to work in and everything that you do can be seen by everyone," he says. 
Anhut also designed his outfit with the help ofLola Ross. Since 
student government, and Saint 
Mary's. 
The senior class is fortunate to be spending a legal St. Patrick's Day on campus. Their events center around a St. Pat's party at Senior Bar. The evening will include free corned beefsandwiches, Bud/St. Pat's giveaways and paraphernalia, Harp and Guinness Stout, Irish whiskey and green beer (so says the March senior newsletter.) 
The junior class does not have any class-sponsored events, because as Dave Miklos, junior class vice president, says, "Within the rules of the University, we couldn't plan the kind ofevent that St. Patrick's Day at Notre Dame deserves. Though, we know the junior class will live up to the spirit ofthe holiday on their own." 
A Saint Mary's student govern­ment program called the "St. Paddy's Wagon" will also be run there was no set pattern for the outfit, Anhut modeled the outfit after the one pictured in the popular poster in the bookstore. "He was sort ofkicked back and ha< a sharp outfit on, so that is why I chose him to model it after," says Anhut. 
The "Fighting Irish" nickname began at a football game, ofcourse. One legend states thatJohn Murphy, quarterback ofthe 1909 football team, yelled, "You're all Irish and none ofyou are fighting worth a lick," when the team was losing an Army game. The conse· quent comeback of the team during the game led to the nickname "The Fighting Irish." 
The press began using the nickname to exemplify the fighting spirit ofthe team and the Irish qualities ofdetermination and perseverance. Though the basis of the nickname was honorable, it was many times used to ridicule the predominatly Irish Catholic univer­sity. As the athletic teams began to excel in competition the nickname began to take on an admirable basis once again. Today the Notre Dame leprechaun and the "Fighting Irish" nickname stand for excellence and determination. 
with the purpose ofsafely returning students to campus from St. Patrick's Day celebrations. A school bus will begin its rounds at 8 p.m and continue every half-hour until 2 
a.m. This service is free to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 
Stops include Saint Mary's ( LeMans Hall), Notre Dame (Library Circle), Campus View and Turtle Creek Apartments, the Five Points bars (Goodwill lot), the corner ofHoward and St. Louis streets, and corner ofLee land and Rex streets. This bus will only return students from the bars, patties, etc. Maps are posted throughout the campus for informa· tion. 
Eighty·three hours ofevents have been planned for the Irish in you this weekend. It would be smart to have a blast · another St. Patrick's Day might not be spent on campus until the 1990s. 
Friday, March 14, 1986 


also surround this part ofSt. Patrick's life, one ofwhich is his driving ofthe snakes out oflreland. 
During this period ofhistory, a movement called Arianism tried to destroy the doctrine ofthe Blessed Trinity. St. Patrick felt such a strong devotion to the Trinity that he was determined to convince his Irish people ofits truth. In order to help illustrate the mystery of the Trinity, St. Patrick used the shamrock which has since become the emblem of the Irish faith and race. 
The exact date ofSt. Patrick's death is uncertain, but legend has it that he died on March 17, 493. He spent his declining years in Armagh, but died in Saul. For 12 days a grate· ful nation reverently visited his remains, and then he was laid to rest in Downpatrick. 
His name has been honored by the Irish for more than a thousand years and churches have been ded­icated to him all over the world. Today St. Patrick's Day is not only in rememberance ofa great saint, but it is also an expression of the pride and love Irishmen everywhere have for their religion, their heritage and their mother country. 


Featuring: Fresh seafood, veal and lamb, prepared In a distinctive manner. 
Reservations Recommended

233-8711 
112 W. COLFAX -SOUTH BEND 
Dinner MON-SAT OPEN Spm 
52929u.s.3j l"'orth .
.,..,..,..,_...,____ 
With this coupon receive a 
Large Pizza for Medium Pizza Price Medium Pizza forSmall Pizza Price 
(Delivery Orders Only) 
After 5 pm on Fri.-Sat. Only (Limited Delivery Area) 
277-5880 Expires March 22 
~----------------------------~ 


Happenings-page 3 Friday, March 14, 1986 
Yet another confrontation between good and evil 
T 
P.A.CIMINO Macleod is engaged in fighting other immor­fact. Otherwise, the viewer's appreciation of As a final observation, the movie includes a featurps writer tals in New York city, which has been chosen the film as a composition which effectively soundtrack by the group Queen. The music Is here are immortals walking this earth and as the site of the "gathering." In this time utilizes both fantasy and reality will not be good (It's also a little loud at times) and lends they have been here since the dawn of period, he is In cogntto as an antique dealer. enhanced. itselfwell to this piece offantasy. Fur­time. Each one a powerful being who cannot In the openning scene of the movie, On the plus side, "Highlander" has a good thermore, Queen's music Is used In more be killed, they have been sent as part of the Macleod is at a wrestling match in Madison story. It is pure action and keeps the viewer than a few places and can really be said to 
Square Garden and feels the presence of engrossed in events. The sword play is also enhance·the film on the whole. In contrast,
timeless battle between the forces of Light and Dark and will meet at the time of the another one ofhis kind. We are led to believe very interesting and on the whole, fantasy other background music not by Queen is, in lovers will probably eat this film up. This is a 
"gathering" when the fate ofthe world will that they all know each other in some way many instances, rather hokey. and are drawn together. Needless to say, he .. very big plus and one which influences the
be decided. overall impact of the film. In short, for those On the whole, "Highlander" Is an fairly
Well, how's that for a new version ofthe meets a second immortal in battle. This 
never-ending stories concerning the con-immortality is qualified when the viewer looking for a movie which contains an nice film. It does have a few faults, but at learns that persons can be killed only by absorbing, exciting story, "Highlander" is a times interestingly joins two totally unr­decapitation. As a result, very early in the film good choice. elated facts oflife -fantasy and reality.
Movie review~ it becomes evident that many heads are going to roll whether they advocate the
Highland~r 
consumption ofcake or not. 
¥¥~ (out of tour) 
J This movie has got some good points and 
some bad points. Taking the bad first, frontation between good and evil? In a "Highlander" has one big problem in that Its nutshell, this Is a summary of"Highlander," a characters are poorly developed. Macleod's new movie starring Christopher Lambert and character is probably the most developed of featuring a short, although enjoyable ap­all, yet because ofall the years he has lived, pearance by Sean Connery (better known as there remains a great deal of information the original 007 from the James Bond which the viewers never find out. This would movies). be acceptable if his whole character was 
"Highlander" is the story ofConnor bathed in mystery; however, this is not the Macleod ( l.ambert ), who was born in the case. Some development is attempted and in I6th century. After being mortally wounded its inefficiency leaves the viewer wishing for in a battle he finds that his body has the more. power to mend itselfextremely quickly. This Afurther disappointment in this film being the I ';00s, though, he is banished by concerns the special effects. Whenever the his own family clan and only through a little reality ofpresent day life is joined with luck escapes burning at the stake. fantasy in any way, it is important that reality 
Soon he is sought out by a Spaniard named is maintained at the points where it will be Ramirez (Connery) who, strangely enough, noticed. The glaring example of this film's talks with an English accent. Ramirez inability to recognize this fact is that every be<:omes Macleod's teacher and instructs time someone's head flies, there is absolutely him in sword play and his reasons for being. no blood. Now, if one is looking for a film he 
The above synopsis is all given to the can enjoy, It is essential to find one that will viewer in a flashback as the present-day not insult his intelligence when it deals with 
Movies 

The Scoop 
• The SAB will sponsor a St. Patrick's Day 
• The Student Activities Board presents • The return ofthe Gregorian Stations of celebration today and toml)rrow. Special "American Dreamer" tonight and the Cross to Sacred Heart Church will be events include a 24-hour OJ beginningtomorrow night in the Engineering commemorated during an organ recital today at 12 p.m., an Irish run on Saturday
Art

Auditorium. Admission to the 7, 9 and II tonight at 8 p.m. in Sacred Heart. Todd morning. and an Irish Bash on South Quad 
p.m. shows is SI. Wilson, a member ofthe music faculty at tomorrow afternoon complete with tents,
~I

Adelphi and Hofstra Universities and a band, the Glee Club, Shenan,nigan's, the• The department ofcommunications organist and master ofchoristers at the • Continuing in the O'Shaughnessy West Dancin' Irish and fireworks. All are 
-
and theater presents"A Week's Vaca­Episcopal Cathedral of the Incarnation in Gallery ofThe Snite Museum ofArt this welcome. 
tion" tonight at the Annenberg Garden City, New York, will perform weekend is the exhibit "Maurico Auditorium. Directed by Bertrand Taver­Marcel Dupre's "Stadons ofthe Cross." Lasansky: A Retrospective Exhibi­nier, the film features the story of a 31-The concert also marks the I OOth anniver­don." The 62 works in this exhibition ycar-old teacher who suddenly finds sary of Dupre's birth. will survey the entire career ofthis herself plagued by the feeling that her life American printmaker. The museum is has no particular meaning. "What is best open Tuesday through Friday from 1 0 about Tavernier is his feeling for the a.m. to 4 p.m. and on Saturday and Sunday ordinary currents ofeveryday life," said • The IUSB Philhannonic Orchestra. from 1 to 4 p.m. Admission is free. critic Roger Ebert. Tickets to the 7:30 and under the direction of Michael Es­Church this weekend will be: 
9:30 p.m. shows are Sl.50 selstrom, will perform tonight at 8:1 5 p.m. • The Snite Museum ofArt hosts the Father Robert Griffin at 5 p.m. 
exhibit "Richard Stevens: Recent
in the Northside Hall main auditorium on (Saturday night vigil).
• "Fitness for All," an instructional film Photographs," an exhibition ofreduc­
the IUSB campus. Included in the concert Father Patrick Maloney at 9 a.m. 
on weight lifting and body building for the tionist stilllifes by a member ofNotre
will be "Rumanian Folk Dances" by Bela Father Michael McCafferty at 10:30 a.m. 
disabled person will be shown today in Dame's department ofart, art history and
Bartok and "Lieutenant Kije-Suite Sym­and 12:15 p.m. 
room 124 of the Administration Building design. Steven's new works are
phonique, Op. 60" by Prokofieff. "Violin 
at Indiana University at South Bend. photographic studies offolded paper, The schedule for confessions in Sacred 
Concerto in D Major" by Tschaikowski Admission is free. will conclude the free program. stones, glass and assorted printed objects Heart Church Is: on conventional silver paper. The works Monday through Saturday at 11: 1 5 a.m. focus on objects, arrangements and light. Monday through Friday at 5 p.m. Admission to the exhibit is free. Monday through Thursday at 7 p.m. 
• Micholas Morrison will perform in a graduate clarinet recital tomorrow at 3 • Continuing this weekend at the South Saturday only 4 to 5 p.m. in the Crypt. 
p.m. In the Annenberg Auditorium. Admis­Bend Art Center is the 19861ndiana Stations of the Cross are on Fridays
sion to the event is free. Woman's Caucus for Art Competitive during Lent at 7:15p.m. In Sacred Heart • The Chester S1ring Quartet with Exhibidon. This juried competition Church.
• The Glee Club will hold its Spring Karen Buranskas and Laura Klughetz will open to artists in Indiana and southwes­Concert tomorrow night in Washington perform Sunday at 4 p.m. In Washington tern Michigan includes over 80 works Vespers will be held Sundays at 7: 15 Hall at 8 p.m. Tickets to the free show are Hall. Free tickets are available in 1 05 chosen by jurors Kathy Cottong and p.m. in the I.ady Chapel. available at The Ticket Stub. Crowley Hall. Ernestine Giesecke, both ofChicago. The rosary is said daily at 6:45p.m. at 
Admission to the exhibit is free. the Grotto. 
UNCLE'S IRISH PUB 

1609 Grape Rd. JMS Plaza Mishawaka 
South Bend's Only TCLUB.
Authentic Irish Pub Come to Tivoli's 

Mixed Drlnka 
St. Patrick's Day Party for United Way
lriah Maalc ~\ and Pitcher 
Drink specials: ALSO: Party favors A new column by
Irlah Stew Speciale! 
50c Green Draft Beers Irish Buffet Dave Dvorak 
Com Beef Sandwlchea 
$1 Shots of Schnapps
Doors Open at lOam 
$1.25 Mixed Drinks 
March 17,1986 9pm-3am $5donatlon Every other tickets on sale at Notre Dame 
D.cl. atartln at 8pm 
Monday in

Located on U.S. 33 IY. at North Village Mall 
277-1877 The Observer 
ooooooo_~oooooomo-ooooooooooooo· 
"Highlander" 





Happenings-page 4 Friday, March 14, 1986 
The Bore House-oops! Oar House not much fun 
-CHICAGO BULLS \ 
vs. Milwaukee Bucks 
"Painter's Hat Night" 
7:30 p.m. Game 
A $21.00 value for only $9.00 
-

THIS SA':CURDAY -MARCH 15 
Bus leaves Library Circle 5:30 p.m. Tickets available at THE TICKET smnT• (Basement of LaFortune) Open 11:30-4:30 
CHICAGO SHOPPING TRIP 
••••• SOLD OUT! 
,

-
Presentation "ill be followed by Questions & Answers. 
-~-~j 

Questions should be directed to Mary Jacobv at ttle Observer oHice (239-5313).


The independent stuoent newspaper, 
Resumes and personal

serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is statements are tlue lllursday,accepting applications for the following March t3:positions: 
• 
Assistant Features Editor 

• 
Features Copy Editor 


The Observer 3rd Floor. LaFortune Student Center 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
JOHN AFFLECK 
features writer 

I 
t's going to be hard to squeeze out I 0 paragraphs on The Oar House. 
What makes this place unique or 
memorable among the bars ofSouth Bend? 
Nothing. Well, maybe the decor is a step 
above The Commons or Lee's Grill and 
Barbecue, but that's it. 

~ The Bar Beat ~ c~ The Oar House 
~ u\ '-...(out of four) 
The bar is done in a style vaguely reminis­
cent ofa wooden sailing ship. Seaworn­
looking paneling and heavy rope rigging 
separate the three rooms ofthe bar, one of 
which contains a pool table, another the bar 
and another extra seating. 

Low-level red lighting from antique-type 
ships' lanterns, red carpeting and com­
fortable chairs contribute to give the decor a 
fairly relaxing tone. 

That's not quite it for The Oar House's 
good points. There also is a carry-out 
counter, open until 3 a.m. So for a higher 
price than one would normally pay, one can 
get alcohol for after-hours. 

Other than these two aspects, this bar is a 
yawner. They don't sell draft beer or, by 
extension, pitchers. 

The bartender said that there are never any 
drink specials. Bummer. 

However, from 4 to 7 p.m. every evening 
one can get (ready for this?) free munchies. 
What are these free munchies? "Mostly 
popcorn, but sometimes we have nachos 
with that hot sauce," the bartender said. 
Great. Ifone wants free popcorn The 
Commons has it, and Chi-Chi's provides 
nachos with that hot sauce and also that bean 
dip. Either one ofthose establishments is 
more interesting in terms ofclientele. 
The people who frequent The Oar House seem to be the middle-aged executive crowd. These people are here for a beer after work at the office or after the convention at The Holiday Inn lets out for the night. It's not the kind ofnightspot where college students generally hang out. 
What makes this place unique or memorable among the bars of South Bend? Nothing. Well, maybe the de­cor is a step above The Commons or Lee's Grill ... but that's it. 
A friend got so bored he decided to help write the Bar Beat by reviewing the men's restroom. His notes say it had no toilet paper, no mirror and no hand dryers. Customers will have to use the paper towels instead. 
In the men's room there is a line ofgraffiti which says "Dave is a stone fox." One wonders what a stone fox is. Is it a stoned fox or a concrete fox? And why is Dave a stone fox? 
Obviously, I wouldn't recommend the Oar House. 
To avoid The Oar House do not drive up 31 North from campus. Do not drive past King Cellar on the right, and do not look to the left before getting to Naugles, where The Oar House sign will be flashing. 
Accent 
Friday, March 14, 1986 -page 9 
After the Church, what do you really have? 

Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
I 
try to imagine what the world 
would be like if the Catholic 
Church were to disappear tomor· 
row. Ifthe Catholic Church Is as 
bad as some ofits members say It is, 
maybe the world would be better 
offif the Church took a powder. 
I'm tired ofdefending the creaky 
old structure tha't is, allegedly, so 
out of touch with the needs ofthe 
human race. Every school child 
who reads history knows how bad 
the Church got In the Middle Ages. 
In the 20th century also, It seems, 
all ofus clerics are heartless, from 
the pope on down. All ofus are 
ignorant ofwhat people need when 
we try to make them believe the old 
myths and superstitions are still 
alive. 
The Catholic Church, for ex· ample, has this unhealthy hangup with sex. It's stupid to try to play the dating game by Catholic rules during a sexual revolution. A stu· dent, trying not to hurt my feelings, let me know that it is impossible to le8fslate morality. Trying to le8fslate morality, he said, is one of the Church's mistakes. "What are the consequences of breaking one of the moral laws?" I asked. 
"The Church works on your conscience to destroy you with guilt," he replied. "The Church tries to make you think you are going to hell." 
He explained to me how the bishops invent the theolo8fcal rules, and then try to make flesh· and-blood creatures fit the thcoreti· cal framework. He sounded like a freedom fighter when Inquired, "Who needs such a burdensome reli8fon?" 
I said, "Maybe you have the cart before the horse." "What do you mean?" he asked. 
I said, "The human condition existed before God gave Moses the Ten Commandments. The use of human sexuality has serious conse· quenccs. Couples·wve themselves to each other trustin&ly as a result ofhuman affection. As a result, things start to develop; maybe a baby is conceived. Only then, maybe, the woman discovers she was wrong to trust the man, or, maybe the man finds out the woman doesn't trust him to help her as a partner in responsibility. Even without the baby, a man or woman can discover they're trapped or hurt by a relationship in which they gave too much, too soon. In an ideal world, where people foresee the consequences of their behavior, they would be wise enough not to get caught in an emotional situation they're uncom· fortable with. On this illusory plane, the so-called 'rules' are valuable as warnings of the swamps that lie ahead." 
"By swamps, you undoubtedly mean the sins that lie ahead?" 
I shrugged my shoulders in an· noyancc at his willingness to think the worst. "When I'm talking to a teenage 8frl made pregnant by a teenage kid, sin is not a word that comes quickly to my mind. I'm much more ready to think, 'What have you done to yourselves?' I'm more inclined to ask, 'Howcan I help you most?' The two ofthem will resolve the burden of their guilt when they deal with their consciences, which, for alii know, may be as pure as the snow. Even if they arc as perfect as the angels of God, they're not ready, as high school students, to strart raising a family." 
"A Church worth it's salt would help educate teenagers to use precautions that would keep them out of trouble," he said pointedly. 
"It's not the Church's business to teach things which contradict its tradition," I said. "I'm not going to tell adolescents, having sex, to use birth control. My job Is to show them that love means they shouldn't hurt each other by wan· dering off the reservation. What good would a Church be ifit changed its tradition for the mistakes ofa secular society indif· ferent to God?" 
"How very caring the Church's servants turn out to be," he sneered. 
"I'm sure you'll find the world much more caring and for8fving," I answered. 
I'm tired ofbeing a part ofa Church that gets kicked around. Maybe the Church, in its villainy, has been superseded by the im· proved faith and morals ofthe liberal establishment. Suffering, according to the newspapers, con· tinucs to go on in the secular city. The sexual revolution, they say, is almost over. Herpes and AIDS· sicknesses, it seems to me, which arc the only modern ills the Church is not blamed for · have made monopmy fashionable and ncccs· sary. Women find it difficult to be sin8lc-sex parents. Some ofthem arc bitter about the old-fashioned 
morality that left them exposed to mothering children. 
Ifthe Church were to disappear, mankind would be free ofthe right· to-lifers. It's hard to say how much the Gospel ofChrist would be remembered. The world wouldn't have to deal with rcli8fous crusades and inquisitions; however, there would be no strong voice protest· ing against evil, and offering salva· tion. The other denominations professing Christ would face tough sledding, if the Goliath ofthe churches bit the dust. 
Some power structure like Com· munism would probably try to fill the void. The State would probably make regulations controlling the acceptable forms ofsexual expres· sion; no self-respecting power structure could let all that psychic energy do as It pleases. I wonder if people would feel freer as sexual creatures. 
I'm tired oflistening to Catholics so lacking in class that they go around whining, "It's the Church's fault." I've heard it all my Catholic life: "I'm pregnant and sin8lc; it's the Church's fault." (For God's sake, how?) "I'm Irish and Catholic; therefore I drink. It's the Church's fault." "I'm a priest, and I'm lonely. It's the Church's fault." "I'm a second-rate citizen. It's the Church's fllult." "I went to Catholic schools, so I'm socially inhibited. It's the Church's fault." "I'm healthy and horny; yet I stay a celibate. It's the Church's fllult." 
"Blaming the Church" is a parlor pme you can play all your life. You can play all your life. You can duck the blame for everything: your failures, omissiom, sorrows, disap­pointments. The infinite varieties of shabbiness can be heaped as monstrosities on the shoulders of the pope, the bishops, priests, brot· hers and sisters. And if, may God forbid, you end up in a place of everlasting torment, you can ex· plain to the devil, when you meet him face to fllce, "It's the Church's fllult," and go through all eternity blaming the Church. 
My opinion is, that in the growth toward Christian maturity, the Church is trying to help us, showing us the truth that is part ofan ancient wisdom. The Church, as a servant, has to live and learn; therefore the Church will be smarter tomorrow than It is today. It has to live and learn; therefore the Church changes its mind over anything: look how long it took us to get an English Mass! 
The Church, ifit exists forever, will never be as liberal as the New Morality, nor should you want It to be. Where would you go then for a second opinion? Most of the time, we suspect in our hearts that the Church is right. As Shakespeare wrote, "The faults, dear Brutus, arc not in the stars, but in ourselves." 

Supreme effort nets Irish the win, but Gipp pays for it 
This is the 21tb episode ofThe Obsen1er's sertal publication ofthe Notre /Jame football story, "The Gipper's Ghost." In last week's episode, Nicki Summers, the sports editor ofThe Observer and steady of Dutch Reagan, the phenomenal running back ofthe resurgent Fighting lrlsb foot· ball team, bad confronted Dutch with a staggering discor'ery. that Dutch was really the human guise ofthe ghost of George Gtpp, the legendary Irish great. Dutch/George Gipp had surprised Nicki further by rer,ealing that the ghost of Knute Rockne was on Earth in the guise of Father Rock, the team chaplain. 
Restoring the lustre 

A 
<:apacity crowd assembled in .Penn 
State's stadium to witness the show· 

down between the No. 2 ranked Nittany 
lions and the resurrected 8·1·1 Fighting 
Irish. 
Both teams were bowlbound. Penn State 
would face the Ohio State Buckeyes in the 
Orange Bowl and Notre Dame the un­
defeated LSU Tigers in the Sugar Bowl. The 
outcome of today's game would figure In 
the determination ofthe mythical national 
champion. 
The Glpper's Ghos~ 
The Nittany Lions emerged from the tunnel first. The Irish followed. 
"Our Lady's Tough Guys" set the tone with an epic defensive effort which.held the 

Halfway through the second quarter, Penn State scored on a six-yard run. The extra point was good. 
Penn Sate 7 · ND 6. Dutch Reagan returned the kickoff 87 yards for a touchdown. Collins passed to 
In the locker room, Joe Kelly spoke to his team. "In the first half, you showed you could play with one of the best teams in the country. In the second half, show them you are the nation's best." 
The brave words suffered at the start of 
Mike Ploszek forced a fumble at the Penn State 12 with 2:30 remaining in the third quarter. Collins scrambled 12 yards on the next play. Roberts' kick was good. 
ND 21 ·Penn State 17. 
Penn State breakaway! Touchdown! 
The kick for the point-after was smot· hered by a wall ofNotre Dame linemen. 
Penn State 23 · ND 21. 
In the offensive huddle, Collins had few words. "Gentlemen, the time is now." 
The Fighting Irish marched 79 yards on 11 plays. The Nittany lions scratched and clawed and finally stopped tham at the three. Tom Roberts strode in and drilled one through the uprights with 4:26 remain· ing. 
ND 24 · Penn State 23. 
Once again, the Notre Dame defense subdued the Lions. Penn State was forced to punt. But what a punt! 69 yards! The ball was downed at the Notre Dame one. 
Afumble might be recovered by Penn State. An Interception in this area might be turned Into a score for the opponents. A safety would 8fve the Nittany Lions two points and certain victory. 
Collins kept the ball twice and burrowed his way to the five. On third and six, he fired to Ryan O'Connor at the 37. O'Connor brought it down and hit the turf. 
The clock whirred offthe remaining seconds. 
Notre Dame's jubilant celebration was short-lived. There, on the goal line, lay the motionless form of Dutch Reagan. 
Dutch had been assigned to block Killer Kubinski, Penn State's 275-pound middle linebacker. There had been a major colli· slon. The full weight ofan unconscious Killer Kubinski had collapsed on Dutch Reapn's right leg. 
The Gipper's Ghost had proved all too human. His leg was broken~ 
Nittany Lions without a sln8le yard gained him for the two-point conversion. the second half. Penn State marched 93 In the first quarter. ND 14 · Penn State 7. yards and took the lead on a five-yard To be continued ... Hart Collins led a 64-yard-drive In seven Only 39 seconds remained in the first half scoring plunge by Harris Berg. plays to score with 2:32 remaining In the when Penn State's kicker connected on a Penn State 17 · ND 14. Prom "The Glpper'o Gbooc," <opytilhl 198, by 11obcn Quockt:nbuoh. Publlobcd by O'Connor Publlohlna eo. llq><IDICd
first quarter. The kick failed. field goal. The Fighting Irish fought their way past 
by pcrmlooloo.
ND 6 · Penn State 0. ND 14 · Penn State 10. midfield. A long field goal attempt fell short. 
/ The Observer Friday, March 14, 1986 -page 10 
I I 
Sports Briefs 
Garret Hennessy and Pat Mileski were the The ND tracktwo-mlle relay team will run 
winners of yesterday's 5K Heart Lights Race. Hennessy took the in the NCAA Indoor Championships this weekend in Oklahoma City, men's title, followed by Tom Schallon and Dave Macaw, while Okla. The team ofJim McNelis, Robert Nobles,JeffVan Wie, andJim Mileski was the first woman to cross the line. Nancy Loughlin Tyler will race against the top ten relay teams in the nation. -The finished second in the women's branch followed byJulie Merkle. In Obseroer the Fun Runner's division, Eric Foose finished first, while individual dorm totals found Pangborn and Breen-Phillips as campus cham­The ND women's tennis team will tace the 
pions. -The Obseroer University of Michigan tomorrow in Ann Arbor, Mich. The first set is scheduled to begin at 12:30 p.m. · The Obseroer 
The ND men's and women's swim 
teams will travel to Columbus, Ohio this weekend to take part in The ND I.SMC Sailing Club will be hosting the the NCAA Diving Regionals. The Irish will compete in events both 
first regatta of the spring season this weekend. The "Freshman tonight and tomorrow. ·The Obseroer 
Icebreaker" will be held on St. Joseph's Lake. -The Obseroer 
The ND I. SMC golf team will hold a mandatory The ND baseball team will travel to DePauw Uni·meeting Sunday at 5 p.m. in the Football Auditorium ofthe ACC. For versity this weekend for a three-game series with the host school.
more information call Laura Gleason at 283·3351. ·The Obseroer Tomorrow, the Irish will play a doubleheader before finishing the trip with an afternoon game Sunday. · The Obseroer Women's Bookstore Basketball signupswill 
be held Sunday from 1 -3 p.m. in the Great Hall of O'Shaughnessy 
next to the Snite Museum. Only one NCAA athlete or two SMC var­The Michiana Bicycle Association will be 
sity athletes, including both present and former players, will be holding the first of a series of rides Sunday at 1 p.m. starting at St. 
allowed per team. A S5 registration fee per team will be collected. Patrick's County Park on Laurel Road. Anyone is eligible to par­
For more information call Melissa Warnke at 283-3433 or Mary ticipate and maps of varying-length routes are provided. For more 
Sheridan at 283-2930. ·The Obseroer 
information call the MBA at 674-0088.-The Obseroer 
NCAA Tournament First Round Results 
South...t RegloNII 
LSU 94, Purdue 87 (201) Memphia St. 95, S.U St. 83 Villanova 71, Va. Tech 62 Ga. Tech 68, Mariat 53 
W•t Regional 
UAB 66, Mlaaouri 64 N. Carolina 84, Utah 72 Bradley 83, UTEP 65 Louiavllle 93, Drexel 73 
Eut RegloNII 
Duke 85, Mlea. Vahy St. 78 Old Dominion 72, W. Virginia 64 DePaul72, Virginia 68 Oklahoma 60, North-tern 74 
MldWMt RegloNII 
Kanau 71, N.C. A&T 46 Temple 61, Jackaonvllle 50 (OT) Mich. St. 72, Wuhington 70 Georgetown 70, T-Tech 64 
Thanks to you... • 
it works ... 
for ALL OF US ..,._.__, 

1he Ohs,•rt·er '\otrt· D.tmt· 11t1ic.t· lnc.Jtl'd un llw thtnl tlt•or 11f l.tlorltiiH' 'tLu.lt:nl ( l'lltt'r. Jt. l l'P'' l l.t...!'-tlin.l .u.h crt,,, UJ.! tn 1111 l) .I Ill lllll d • r Ill \It lfh.IJ\ lhniUJ.!h I ndJ\ lhc tJh:H'Tl"f.'T "'-..ltlll \l.tn 'ttlhtt ltt4..,Ht·d ctnlht· tiHnJ flthtr ••f H.tgg.u ( olkgt· ( nllc.:r .H.ll'Pl' ll.l,,lftn.t... trnm 1.! '\II pIll \Ill [II ~rIll \1un d.t\ thuu~h l nd..l\ l>c.tdlnH: lttf lll"\1 d,t\ c.l.t"ttic. d' '' ~ p f11 \II tl.l"'-''tlc:d' mu... r he prt·p.tu.l. t•trlH.'f 111 pt·r'''" or fH fll.lll < h.tr).!t' '' I o l c:rH' pt:r fl\ t· ( h.rr.u.
Classifieds 
tc.·r, c.:r d.t\ 
NOTICES 
Typing Available 287-4082 
TYPING CALLCHMS 234-1117. 
PRO-TYPE .....-....,..,...,,.._
---.lltudentPI'PIN· 277-eaa. 
ATTN: STUDENTS 
Dolorea Francia typing aervice phone number change 277-8131 
Wordproceaalng-Typing 272-8827 
TYPING • Fut, Hlgh-OuaNiy. Call 287· 9257 
Need ride to WASHINGTON D.C. tor Spring Break. WIN ahare uaual. Call Lorri at2&4-5315 
I!XPMT TYPING SI!IMCI!. CALl. liM. COKE!~, 2»-7001. 
LONG ISLAND CLUB BUS LEAVING MARCH 21 RETURNING APRIL 1 RD. TRIP $77 ONE WAY $50 SIGN UPS IN LAFORTUNE LOBBY 4-6 PM ON FRI. MARCH14 
PRo-TYPE apeciaNzing in atudent _., law peptn, reeumee. dl­tiona277·5833. 
LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: Beige aporia jacl<et at O'Laughlin Auditorium •t S.M.C. downatelra tirat WMk of Feb. Dear Ledy who called me before, pleMe call me again. Great aen­timental value. Thank you tor your patience. Thetagr-'G.Cannon40169' P1ea8e caN at 283-3244 
LOST: Pair of blue leather glovee. It you remember finding a pair of glovea on Fri. Feb 14, or around then, (probably in Comp/Malh 300, N.S.H. 123, O'Shag 1OSA, or Eng. Aud) pleMe call Frank x1576. 
LOST: womena lilver ring of enormoua 
aentimental value; p.-o~y loltat lbrary. Call Kathy 3568. 
At the B.P. SYR (2/15) I picked up the wrong Sport Coat. Hopefuly that peraon ao picked up mine, It-• tweed Hun­ting Hom -eimllar to the one that I picked up. H you areloolclng tor your coat or have mine pleMe call Kevin at x2113. 
LOST: My t,;g Saara (-!) radiol-.e player In Riley artbuilding. I could havuwom I put it in my locker, but H you found It alaewhere, ~ call Paule x2B66 and and tal me where I can flnd It or putIt tJec~ In loc~et 307/1 
HELP! MEN'S GOLD CHAIN MISSING. TAKEN FROM 205 CARROLL NIGHT OF MAR. 1 PARTY PERSONAU. Y VALUABlE NO QUESTIONS ASKED$$ REWARD$$4051 
LOST, PRESUMABLY STOLEN; My wal­let from the Rock on Sunday alter noon, I'd really Nke aN my ID'a back before break, hope you apant the $2 wei. Gall Greg at 232-8875 or s;veto 1011 & found. 

FOUND: 3/10 In Concepti of Mod. Sci. dea: pair of tan au-glovea. Too amall for me I Gall Rob ]1201 to claim. 
La.l'-&.oeT-&.oeT-&.C»T 
I.D. LoeT ntUMOAY NIGHT (LATE) ALONG WITH DIIIVIM UCINCE 
AND A DETEX. IF FOUND, PLEASE CONTACT FRAN AT 2244. 
JIEWMO-fti!WAJtD...Ith~ 
"EWMD 

-atolemylllllbyfroma ~ """' ,..ny at 114 corlly The only
po$$e$$jon I have that 1$ worth anything, anolympua otn-10. I'm IWIIy eonna ml• It eo I'm wt•ng to liVe ceeh tor lt'e I'IIUm. It -1eat -on a chair -m..-.H y0<1 '-ellandY"" 
'-e.,y-ol~'*-'CIIII Molle -.:1\anlat 4011 
LOST: Ladlee -tch, blue lnided band, ,_ Sacred HMII Chun:h. Great aen­timental vlllue-reward. 277-6353 or 239­7617. 
..EW/I.IID .. .$40.00 LC»T Black tuxedo jacl<et with lalla and red bow tie. Both In white plaatic t.g loll 3/8 at OC Party on 
E. Navarre St. Need deepuataty! Call 3810, Chuck. 
································································ 
LC»T: A brown Ooonegal Tweed hat. II 
-probably left in O'Shag two W88Q 
ago. PleMe, thia hat hu aentimenlal 
Value and ia irreplacMble. "EWAIID No 
queationa uked. Call 3633 or return to 
LOll and Found Office. 
Wri-ch Loat L.L. Bean/Hamihon brand. Black leather wriatbtlnd. PleMe caH Jamie at4116 illound. 
································································ 
LOST: One ctau ring with aquamarine birth atone. Any information leading toward recovery wiN be rewarded. caH 1572. 
LOST --Ladlea gold watch on North Oued or in North Dining Halt. Pl-.pi-caN Unda (4135) if you find it. 
FOR RENT 

................................................................ 
FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR. 2876389. 
Semi-tumilhed houae in good neighbor­hood 2~/277-3604 
................................................................ 
Ft. lauderdale apt. wk. May 17-24. $300. Cell28&-1973. 
Grlld Room $100/Mo 277·2045 
WANTED 

GOVERNMENT JOBS. $16,04D-$59,230/yr. Now Hiring, CaN 1· 805-M7-6000 Ext. R-9634 tor current ledtnl Nil. 
NEED A IIIALE IIOOIIIIIATE IN HOUs­TON, TX, AFTD GRAD. CALL ~ 
x174a 

Need 2 ridera to Daytona or Orlando, Fla. Leave 20 Mar, return 2 A{Jr. Call4083. 
................................................................ 
MDI! NEEDED TO CENTRAL N£W YORK FOR MEAK. Syracuae or Rocheater pretered. Can leave any time Thuraday afternoon or Friday morning. Willilare alexpen-. Call Eric at1989. 
................................................................ 
Need RIDE to NEW JERSEY can leave 3/21 call John ]1024 
2 ridea needed to Columbua,OH Can leave Fri. atter3pm Cd1319or 1291 
................................................................ RIDERS NEEDED TO NEW ON.EANS. Leaving Friday morn. Andre 1475 
NEED RIDERS TO FLA. ONE WAY. CALL JOHN 2506 
NEED RIDE BACK FROM FLORIDA AFTER BREAK. CALL JOHN 2506 
NEED RIDERS TO SOUTH FLORIDA AREA. CAN PROVIDE MEAL AND OVERNIGHT ACCOMIDATIONS AT FINEST MOTEL IN CLEWISTON. CALL X2571 
................................................................ 
RIDER TO SAN ANTONIO OR AUSTIN, TX AREA FOR BREAK. RENTING A CAR. INTERESTED? CALL STEVE K. AT 1786. 
FOR SALE 
ALUMNI AND RICH RIENDS: The Spirit of Rockne Hv• on! Pict.Jre youraelt in a Notre Dame blue 1933 Studebaker Rockne. Though an antique, it runa Nke new and looks anappy, too. For details or a cloaer look, call (219) 283-1373 
TICKETS 
one roundtrip airline, south Bend to Tampa, Florida. Leave March 23 return March 31. $238. 272-4711 or 284-45N. 
PERSONALS 
PREGNANT? 
NEED HELP? 
Call 234-o363. 24-hr. hotiine, couneeting 
& free pregnancy teall. 
WOMEN'S CA..E CENTER 
OAR HOUSE: COLD aEE" & UOUOII. CAMY OUT TO S A.M. U.S. 31 N., 1 IILOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
FIII!ECOUPON81n lhey.llow......ol 
the c:-pua T...,.._DINctory. u.. lhem1ocMyt 
ST. PAT'S PARTY AT TIVOLI'S lor the UNITED WAY I $.50 GREEN DRAFT BEER $1.25 ALL MIXED DRINKS $1.00 SHOTS OF SCHNAPPS FREE IRISH BUFFET! $5.00 TICKETS ON SALE NOW 
Thank You St. Jude tor all your help! PleMe continueto nelp me! 
2aun-lovera DESPERATELY need ride to Florida for break! Will share expen-. Gall283-4684 ASAP! 
aotiTON 80UND FOil SPRING 
MEAK? 
NEEDAIIIDE? 
011 GOING nt"U ALMNY, 
SYIIACUIE, ROCHI!STE... aUFFALO 
OR ENE? PLEASE join two intereating 
domera on their to Harvard. We'lleave Fri 
March 21. PLEASE call3861100n. 
NEED A IIIDE LEAVING WASH., D.C. IIAJICH 27? Join two domera on their way back from SPRING BREAK. PLEASE CALL 3661. 
ott G ott G 01 G ott G May It forever be... 
St. Patrick Nyl, I'm going to Nck your spine until you tum over. 
CHICAGO CLU8 SWEATSHIATS 
AIIEHE..Et 
Be the lira! in your dorm to wear thelat•t 
in sweallhirt tuhiona. Avlllleble 
at...... ntE CELLNI M-F 11 :30-4:30 
Appficationa for 
TICKET STUB MANAGER 
now available at TicketStub. Due Wed. 
3/19. Sign up for interview timea when 
you drop ott your appNcation at SAB 
office, 2nd floor LaFortune. lnterviewa 
hekl3/19. 
HAPPY21 TII!!IITWASN'TTAVERNON THE GREEN--BUT IT WAS CLOSE HOPE YOU ENJOYED IT. JUST THINK-­NO MORE FAKE 1.0.!! HAPPY BIRTHDAY REASON, YOU'RE MY L.L. AND B.F. LOVE S.N.O. 
calvin and Hobbn are godlike! 
T·SHIRTS 
T-SHIRTS 
T-SHIRTS 
TO All THOSE KIND PEOPLE WHO 
ORDERED SPIIINO MEAK FOREVER 
T·SHIRTS THEY ARE !Nil! PLEASE 
CONTACT GEORGE OR TOM IN 370 
DIUON (PHONE 1854) YOU CAN PICK 
THEM UP NOW THROUGH BREAK SO 
DONT FORGET THEM! THE 'JUST FOR 
PLEASURE' SALESMEN 
WELCOME TO NO, WEENIE· aREAntrrr (The Wurat is yet to come, IIebe!) TO 
STEVE TAEYAEifTS COM....,ON VOTE FOUR ... FOR MORE STEVE TAEYAE..-r8-COMMISSIONER liMY KAY STEINMETZ-ASST. COM· MISSIONER IIAJIK CONCEs-SOCIAl CHAIRMAN KATE MULLANEY·TREASURER VOTE TAEYAI!IfTS FOil O.C. COIIIIISSIONE" 
YESTERDAY MARK CONCES TURNED 
21 
THANKS TO All WHO HELPED HIM 
'CELEBRATE' LAST NIGHT! TAKE THIS 
CHANCE TO TEU HIM YOU LOVE HIM, 
BUT... SHH, NOT TOO LOUD!! II 
PERSD// C-804//5.2// 0 II 0314 LISA, 
LINDA, AND CES: ONE MORE WEEK 
'TIL VERO BEACH! COCKTAILS BY 
THE POOL, FLORIDA'S SUN, SKIING, 
SOUTH BEACH, MARVIN GARDENS, 
WALDOS, AND CACHE CAY PARTIES 
ARE WAITING FOR US! (NOJETTA YET 
-OH WEU... WE CAN CRUISE IN THE 
CUTLASS) LOVE YA'U, ANNE 
THE..ESA • HAPPY 19th BIRTHDAYIII CAN'T WAIT TO SPEND IT WITH YOU! LOVE, JOHN 
ntE..IESA • HAPPY 19th BIRTHDAYIII CAN'T WAIT TO SPEND IT WITH YOU I LOVE, MATT 
THERESA· HAPPY 19th BIRTHDAYIII CAN'T WAIT TO SPEND IT WITH YOU I LOVE, BIU P.S. YOU'RE MY ONE AND ONLY! BUT-AM I YOURS77? 
To two wonderful dancera: Jill and STEVE , Wedneaday night began with no one there. Then the two of you arrived and welt ... thanks for the ride, the 8 and J'a, and for lhowing us how euy ilia to get loet between St. Louis and HiH. ·UN and Kara 
CHRIS AND DAVE: MAY THE LUCK OF THE IRISH BE WITH YOU TONIGHT!-M ANDC 

WOMEN OF ND • NO IIOIIEI NO MOllE! ntE STJIUQQLE IS OVE.. AND YOU LOSEttl 
HEY, OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS: 
VOTE 
EILEEN HAIITIGAN 
OFF-CAMPUS STUDENT SENATOR 
3/18, LA FORTUNE, 12·5PM 
"Thla, rather, II lhalaatlnglhet I wtell: ...._.ng lh-bound unjuatly. un­tying the lhonga ol m. yoke: Selling !tee the ClfiPNMed, ....,.... every yoke;" ISAIAH II 
Ombudaman Pruents o,..atton ...netorm 
... delalle coming_, 
Go H•waiian! Logan Center Ia holding a Hawaiian dance thla Friday from 7:30­
10:30. Come over to Logan and check ua out. 
I need a ride to Milwaukee, Marquette on Friday, March 21. I can leave alter 2. Call Margie at294-4425. 
FRESHMEN!!FRESHMEN!! Vote K....., • ...mon We'N work "with the clua," not "u the clua." 
KAREN(the aweetthing), Happy t,;rthday to the cuteat member of the Delta 88tour. (Sotry Ch-. Cruz) Two more y..,. and .you too can ahop in Dlcoa. Dreama do become reality! Pau~l love aweet thinga) 
Do you RUN? Are you ATHLETIC? Do you want people to think you are ATH· LETIC? Do you Hke making up atoriea to shapely women or Godly men about your ATHLETIC put during Spring Break? Purchae one ot Nmiled number of official UNIV. of NOTRE DAME TRACK & FIELD T ·Shirll($8) or Grey SweatTopa($ 15). To uk queationa or to get anawera caN TROZ at23&-7634. 
Hey you? Yeah you, Goohie. Do you dare me again? Will I ever get the Chicken in Blue? If not, I conaider It a dare! Dare me not, I uk of you. Snookema can't bear the embarruamenr! Your Worat Peraonall Nightmare, 46.2 
XTCI The PROGRESSIVE MUSIC CLUB preaenll "E-y" TONIGHT at GRACE HALL'S PMTY ROOM (In lha ......._,), From I p.m. to 2 a.m. you can dance (or juat hang out) to aome REAL muli_c.__ Yep, that'a al the neo­paychedetia, synth, rap/mix, Batcave, reggae, punk, aurt, aka and whatever alae you can han-dla (not to forget "lnatitutionalized" or Hank Willama). And gueu what? It's F"I!EI Yeah, we accept Monopoly money! So come on down and party club stytel For FIIEEI Your..,.. and feet wllthank you! XTCI XTCI 
ST. PAlliiCK'S DAY WEEKEND 
CELOMnONIll 24-HOU.. D.J.'S, IIIISH "UN, PJIIE·ST. PATS MUNCH, ST. PATS DAY 11A8H AND AWESOME FI"EWORKSIII 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE. I e0<1kl '-• never done It without y0<1r help 
RIDE NEEDED:to that booming metropolla,KEWANEE,IL. (ON 1-80) 3/21or22 Share uauai.Call Jack 2073 
MOTilE DAilE ARE YOU READY FOR ST. PAlliiCK'I DAY? THE ST. PATRICK'S DAY WEEKEND CELEBRATION IS COMING MAR 14-17. GO IRISH!!! 
SMC OFF-CAMPUS SYRI BE THERE! 
SMC OFF-CAMPUS SYR yyy FRIDAY MARCH 14th HAGGAR PARLOR AND CHAMELEON ROOM 9pm·1am TIX $8-$10 AT DOOR AVAILABLE IN D-C DAY LOUNGE THIS WEEK! 
DISCOVE" 
DISCOVE" 
DISCOVER 
MATT, I'm 10 glad you're here. You'rethe beat!! Love yalots and I know we're going to have a great time. Love, ME 
MCAT MCAT MCAT MCAT PREPARA· TION MATERIALS Wiling to 18M my KAPLAN Review Materiall from lUI year for $50 or beat offer. X3731 
Hungry? Call YEUOW SUBMARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery houra: 5pm-12am Monday· Thuraday; 5pm-2am Friday; 3pm-1am Saturday; 4pm-10pm Sunday. 
THUMDAY NIGHT CLU8 ON CORaY 
Hu been moved to Sat. for • ST. PADDIES DAY BASH atarting at10:30 in the morning. 
KEENAN HALL P"UIDENT IIIA"CAN­TUONO ·MOllE" 
Found: Peart bradet on Eddy St. Saturday night. Call to claim-284-4138 
D.C. SPIIING MEAK atJI Rd. lrip and ONE WAY apace atiM avail. Call Kevin at 1062. 
HEUO TEAll AMERICA II 
can'twllittii/IWI, eh? 
!lACE ntOIIIAN FOR OFF-CAMPUS COMMISSIONER FUNII EXPERIENCE !lACE II 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE. I CO<IIdn't '-• done II wtlh0<1l y0<1r help. 
HAVE CAll, NEED IIIDEIIS TO FLA.IIII Call Marilyn or Kathy at3885. 
ltOUNDTIWP ntANSPORTAnON TO DAYTONA OVD SPfiiNG IIREAK. 
175. CALL TI'IAVEL 2000 232-1411. 
'DOMERS DO DALLAS' 
'DOMERS DO DALLAS' 
'DOMERS DO DALLAS' 
T -Shlrll, cai­
John-3873, Bolg-3559, Mark 1040 
CPA Joke of m.Weak 
Why t• a atock apllt Mkeldulng your alater? 
An Accountant'eana-tolheK­llevue: 
THE CPA REVUE 
Sat. 8:30a.m. 
THANKS FOR A GREAT WEEK! I LOVE YOU, JEI! ASTRID 
..........................................1''''""'"''''"'"' 

The Observer Friday, March 14, 1986-page 11 
NCAA bracket 

lemltl...la
,..........
...... llllllui'MIIIeoenll ....... 
Man:l'l1~14 March 15-18 Kentucky 1 
18 l 8 I 
8 

Charlotte, N.C. 5 
March 14 & 16 
12 I 
4 r 
13 

1-------­
Southeast
8 
--------',....,., LSU I 

=.;.;;..-----J"'-': Memphla 5~atonII--R-ou_1_e_,L-.-.---.
1 

7 VUianova March 13 & 15 1--A-tlwl_ta,_Geo_r_,gia 
;.,;:;:;:=_...:1.l&.IO I March 20 & 22 
==~-7.~~~_jr~--~
... Oa. Toc:h 111
=::.--...!lt.l 

Dallas, Taus 1 March 29 
11 • I r 
Houlton, Texa Dallal, Taus 

March 20 & 22 March 31

8 

Lon1 Beach, Calif. p,;~~~~5l-----M~a~rch14&16 1-----------. 
12 
I 
4 r 
13 
8 West 
~~----~~~U~A~B----~ 
n.r I 
3 r
N. Carolina 14 

Oidea Utah ---'-----.:..,7 lindley March 13 & 15 ;;;.;..::;:_ ____;1~o I 
2L-,-----'
:~;;..;:!.._.:::_:..___-~-!.:..,fllo~ws=·:.:..:vUI::::e__----J 
-15 


1 Duke 

1.----.=.Du.:::k:::..e----lt111 Miu. Valley St 
8 Old Dominion
I

~~Ol~d=~=®~·ru=·o=n-1_~~~·~·~·~ 
_ 9 W. V1rprua 

I 
Greensboro, ~N.C. .----------1 March 13 & 15 DePaul 5 Viralnia 12 DePaul 
I 
4 Oklahoma 
Oklahoma 
13 Nqr1'-atem 

East 8 St. Jooeph's 
I 
11 Richmond
I 
J Indiana
1

~-------t1~4~C~~~·~land~St~.
L----------1 Syracuse, N.Y. March 14& 16 7 Navy East Rutherfonl. 
10Tulsa NewJefwey 
I 
2 Syncwe
March 21 & 23 
I
I 
115 Brown 
1 Kansas 

Kansu 1t1N.C.AAT 
Kansas City, Miaaouri I 

~21&23 r----------11 1 Jacksonville 
Temple 

{ 8 Temple Dayton, Ohio 
5 Mich. Sl. March 13& 15 Mich. St. 
r-~~~-l1~2~W~uru~·~~oo~
1 

4 GeorldownI Oeorldown .­113 Texas Tech 
Midwest 8 N.C.St. 
1
11 Iowa
I
I 
3 NolftO..O 
1

L-------~1 14 Ark.-Liule Rock Minneapolis, Minn. L----------1 March 14&16 7 towaSt. 
,r----------1~ 10 Miami (Ohio) 
I 2 Michipn L----------1~ 15 Akron 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following positions: 
Copy Chief Circulation Manager 
Submit personal statement and resume to Joe Murphy by 5 p.m. Monday, March 17 3rd Floor Lafortune 
,...... --·-···········~ 
Don't miss your last chance I to grasp a golden tan :•I 
,-.,-_ _,before Spring Break. 1 I
: I 
I I I I I I
BOOTH AND BEDS 
I 
LOCATED AT THE 

I 
UMJVERSin COMMONS 

I
ST. RD. 23 

I
212·7653 

I 
NCAA 
continuedfrom page 16 
Notre Dame's guys are big, but I feel we can get up and down the floor better." 
Little Rock, 22-10, has won 18 of its last 19 games. The Trojans beat Centenary last Saturday to win the Trans America Athletic Conference tournament and an automatic bid to the NCAA tournament. 
Despite this, it's easy to see how 
Little Rock could be intimidated by Notre Dame. The Irish are ranked 1Oth in this week's AP poll and are a team which the Little Rock players have seen on television a number of times this season. Intimidation will not be a factor tonight, though, ac­cording to the Little Rock players. 
CONGRATULATIONS  
edGradel  
on your Bengal Bout victory.  

"We're not intimidated by Notre Dame. They lace up their shoes the same way we do. They get taped up the same place we do," says Myers. "The only dilference is that it says Notre Dame across the front oftheir uniforms and it says UALR across the front ofours. 
"We're really loose. We don't have anything to lose." 
Irish coach Digger Phelps says he cannot afford to worry about the mental state of Little Rock or how well the Trojans have been playing lately. 

"We've just got to be ourselves and go out and play people," Phelps says. "We played a tough road schedule to get us ready for this and ended the season in a great way, by being ranked in the top I0. Now let's see how good we really are." 
Phelps says he expects to see a lot of zone, some man-to-man and a good press from Little Rock tonight. 
"We'll do a lot of crazy things," says Newell. 
The Little Rock coach is attempt· ing build the Trojan program, and thinks that playing Notre Dame can do nothing but help. 
"We realize that right now we're an underdog," Newell says, "but this is not the last time we're going to be here. You've got to set your goals high, and we have set our goals high. 
Beautiful Printsfrom the National Gallery ofIreland 
-f:" ·,_ ~ib~ l 
(the. :.DoH with the. .2.aucc.J pwud(4 ptE.it:nh 
THE LAW 
SATURDAY NIGHT $2 cover $1 Molsens 

:_ I -'·· •• ')., 
The Observer Friday, March 14, 1986 -page 12 
Notre Dame Men's Basketball Statistics through 3/14/86 
Won 23, Lost 5 
Pl•yer GIGS MIN/AVG FG!FGA PCT FT/FTA PCT REB/AVG PF/FO AST BK ST PTS AVG 
Rivers 27/26 895/ 33.1 150/ 334 .449 142/ 178 .797 84/ 3.1 68/ 0 132 5 47 442 16.3 Barlow 27/26 752/ 27.8 160/ 302 .529 86/ 97 .886 150/ 5.5 67/ 2 32 15 20 406 15.0 Royal . 27/27 747/ 27.6 84/ 144 .583 117/ 152 .769 130/ 4.8 63/ 3 22 6 30 285 10.5 Stevenson 27/22 545/ 20.1 99/ 167 .592 37/ 44 .840 67/ 2.4 24/ 0 27 7 11 235 8.7 Kempton 27/27 587/ 21.7 65/ 119 .546 43/ 58 .741 136/ 5.0 54/ 0 61 7 17 173 6.4 Price 27/2 503/ 18.6 72/ 145 .496 26/ 37 .702 56/ 2.0 53/ 1 23 5 18 170 6.2 Hicks 28n 425/ 15.1 58/ 118 .491 31/ 40 .775 70/ 2.5 29/ 0 44 2 24 147 5.2 Dolan 28/3 628/ 22.4 54/ 95 .568 39/ 50 .780 133/ 4.7 74/ 2 43 8 20 147 5.2 Connor 19/0 166/ 8.7 31/ 50 .620 8/ 10 .800 26/ 1.3 18/ 0 11 1 4 70 3.6 Voce 21/0 186/ 8.8 24/ 44 .545 15/ 24 .625 56/ 2.6 33/ 0 3 11 8 63 3.0 Beeuwsaert 17/0 104/ 6.1 11/ 23 .478 4/ 8 .500 27/ 1.5 15/ 0 8 0 7 26 1.5 Smith 15/0 71/ 4.7 9/ 23 .391 4/ 6 .666 8/ .5 3/ 0 14 1 3 22 1.4 Peters 11/0 31/ 2.8 5/ 15 .333 2/ 5 .400 5/ .4 2/ 0 3 0 0 12 1.0 Nicgorski 8/0 10/ 1.2 3/ 5 .600 0/ 6 0.000 3/ .3 1/ 0 0 0 0 6 .7 Team Rebounds 75/ 9.3 
Notre Dame 28/ 5650/201.7 825/'1584 .520 554/ 715 .774 • 1026/36.6 504/ 8 423 65 208 2204 78.7 Opponents 28/ 5650/201.7 736/ 1579 .466 317/ 464 .683 • 776/27.7 586/ 25 355 77 189 1789 63.8 
• Deadball rebounds not included in totals: Notre Dame 61 , Opponents 47 
SMCtrack opens season tomorrow 
By ANDREA LaFRENIERE 
Sports Writer 
Thirteen freshmen are among the I 5 new members of the I986 Saint Mary's track and field team, which begins its season tomorrow in the Spring Arbor Indoor Invitational in Spring Arbor, Mich. 
Six returning team members will lead the Belles at the event, includ· ing senior Mary Luneen, who was not on the team last season but did compete her freshman and sop· homore years, juniors Anne Bianco and Mariclaire Driscoll, and sop· homores Cathy Kennedy, Mary O'Connor and Karen Walker. 
New team members include 

Holtz has some big worries with his '86 Irish 
Sped8l to The Obee~r 
Notre Dame football Coach Lou Holtz says he has discovered shock· ing weaknesses in recruiting and player skills but denies any implicit criticism of his predecessor, Gerry Faust. 
"We have more problems than we can say grace over right now," Holtz said yesterday during a press confer· ence. 
The Notre Dame squad was prepared to begin a five-day spring practice session today, the first un­der the leadership of the former Minnesota coach. Faust resigned and joined the University ofAkron after a disappointing five-year career at Notre Dame that ended with a 5·6 season and a crushing 58-7 defeat at Miami. 
"I'm worried exceptionally much about depths in the defensive line," Holtz said. The new coach says he has more quarterbacks than defensive lineman, an imbalance in recruiting that will complicate the task of fielding a highly competitive team. 
Football 
continuedfrom page 16 
said Holtz. "Obviously, you'd like to be fair with everybody on the foot· ball team and you'd like to give them all a tremendous opportunity, but that's going to be difficult to do be· cause you have many more quarter· backs than you do defensive linemen. The thing that concerns me the most is having an equal op· portunity to evaluate everybody at all positions, and that's difficult to do with limited defensive linemen." 
As far as evaluation of his players, Holtz is prepared to start from square one. 
"My impressions ofour personnel have come strictly from interviews, personal relationship with them and observations in the winter program," says Holtz. "I have not made any evaluation based on past performances. What's happened in the past I couldn't care less about. I don't know what a young man was 

"I worry about depth, I worry about speed, and we're not very strong," he said. 
During the questioning, Holtz seemed to take pains to avoid open criticism of Faust. But he repeatedly pointed out weaknesses and dis· tanced himself from Faust, despite praising his predecessor for in· tegrity and compassion. 
"I can count, and when I count numbers at certain positions, they don't go very high," Holtz said. 
"I'm sure (Faust) had reasons and plans for the way he did thin~. I'm not criticizing that whatsoever," he added later. 
"But I was shocked to find out that we had three defensive linemen on scholarship on the whole football team and six quarterbacks," he said. "That's not a criticism by any stretch of the imagination, but it is going to present some problems. 
"I don't see how anyone could ever criticize or second-guess Gerry Faust," he continued. "By the same token, I sure hope you don't expect me to be like him, because I cannot be." 
Holtz, a colorful talker who enjoys turning a phrase, may have over­stated the defensive weaknesses, though not by much, Athletic Department spokesman John Heis· ler said later. 
Four defensive line starters were under scholarship and a few other rode the bench, butgot little playing experience, he said. Nevertheless, he said, those positions were under­manned. 
Holtz did praise his players repeatedly for their intelligence and 
asked to do, I don't know what his 
physical condition was, I don't know 
what his mental attitude was. 

"It would be totally unfair to evaluate somebody based on the past when I don't know the condi· tions that surrounded his perfor­mance. I've always started from ­scratch and gone from there." 
Following this afternoon's 

Pat Giblin Band Playing 
workout, the squad has a practice slated for tomorrow at I p.m. Practices next week are slated for 

Sunday and Tuesday, with the first * ~ Green Beer 25c #* 
spring scrimmage scheduled for 

-t+ Shots of Jameson Irish Whiskey $1.25 '* 
Thursday at 3:30p.m. 


*# PRIZESI PRIZESI PRIZESI #* 
4*********************­
junior Cass Pearl and sophomore Stephanie Duke, along with fresh· men linda Baily, Missy Bailey, Mary Boulger, Eileen Brake, Beki Davis, Beth Flaherty, Lora Gill, Karen Kraj­cir, Patty Morris, Kelly O'Brien, Jeanette O'Neill, Theresa Rice and Usa Tugman. 
Larry Szczechowski, the team's new field events coach, joins Head Coach Jean Kerich, whose primary goal this season is to improve upon the team's somewhat disappointing finish last year. 
"I'd like for Saint Mary's to have a more respectable record this year," Kerich says. "I'd also like everyone on the team to make a personal im· provement." 
Nine teams from Michigan, In· diana and Ohio are scheduled to compete in tomorrow's meet. 

willingness to accept changes in as­signment. 
The quarterback position won't be filled soon, he said. Holtz noted, however, that Terry Andrysiak threw more touchdowns and fewer interceptions last year than regular starter Steve Beuerlein. 
"As far as the quarterback situa· tion, we just want to find who can put it in the endzone," he said. 
Holtz said his emphasis on Notre Dame weaknesses might ease "undue pressure" on the players, without misleading Irish fans. "If we're any good, I won't have to tell you," he said. "You'll see it." 



-~----­
---· 

Friday, March 14, 1986 -page 13 
The Observer 


_ 

.111._ .... , .......... ~ ....... "" ..........._ ..... ,. .... -...... ,.-•.•• <. #. ~' "' ... -_ .... .'• 
, I 
---..___
r 
---· ~ -----..___---::----:--------------__,j
~ ------­
I I 
Friday, March 14, 1986 -page 14
The Observer 

Lacrosse team faces Ashland tomorrow 
Spedal to 1be Oblerver 

The Notre Dame lacrosse team continues preparations for its 1986 season with a scrimmage against Ashland College at 1:30 p.m. tomorrow at Cartier Field. 
The Irish will be without the services oftwo key players who will graduate in May. Jusin Shay and Bob Trocchi. Returning, however, is last season's second-leading scorer, Joe Franklin ( 40 goals and 11 assists). . 
Franklin will play one attack position, with the other spot probably being manned by senior co-captain Tom Grote. The other co-captain, senior Mike Rice, anchors a solid Irish defensive unit. 
After Saturday's scrimmage, the team travels to Virginia for spring break for a four-game road trip. 
FAMOUS LAST WORDS FROM FRIENDS TO FRIENDS. 
"All' !/!Ill OK to drit·et" "What); afi•w IH!el-st" 

"Did yo11 hat't' tm11111clt to driukt" "1'111/H'I.ti'l'fly.fluP." 
"All' !/fill ill till!/ .~lmpt' to dri1•et" "/'t•e uet•er.fi•/t /wtte1:" 


Long Island Bus 
SPRING BREAK 
Roundtrip $77 One way $50 

Bus leaves March 21 & returns Aprill 
Sign ups in LaFortune Sign ups in LaFortune Lobby 4-6 p.m. Friday, March 14th 

-----------~-------------------------­
~4(Jt~C3L~-------------------------------------------Fr-id_a_y_._M_~_c_h_I_4_,_1_9_86---p_a_g_e_I_5
Bloom County 
NO•. REAUY, 5AM .. MY CUENT 15 5TAY/Nf:J 1£1{€ I1T MY ftiU... YEIIH•.11£TKIAL'S IN AF€-W WEf..K5... f:JONNA 8£ ACINCH. R/&ffT.., 'AXE-ft11JI?~R ~ )t;AH. 
/ 

Zeto 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

NO... f<E.AU.Y... IrU 8£ LeMME CAU. 
A PIEU OF CAKI:. ... YA BACK, SAM... 
rr'S -IIH~ IKJI..{) IT A 5£C.... 
J I 
Kevin Walsh 



ACROSS 1 Helper: abbr. 5 Jezebel's 
spouse 
Dinner Menus 

Notre Dame Stuffed Shell with Sauce Crab Quiche Baked Cod with Lemon Western Bagel Omelettes 
· 

SATtnU>AY,FEB.15 
' 

•8:30 
A.M. ·Graduate Management Admis­sion Test, Engineering Auditorium 

•9 
A.M. -Lecture, "Basil the Great and the Choice of Hercules," Father Ernest Fortin, Boston College, Center for Continuing Educa· tion, Sponsored by the Conference on Chris· tianity and Classical Thought 

•10:30 
A.M.· 5K Irish Run, St. Patrick's Day Irish Run, begins and ends at Stepan Center, Sponsored by SAB 

•I
0:45 A.M. · Lecture, "The Case of Tertul­lian," George Anastopolo, Loyola University Law School, Center for Continuing Education, Sponsored by the Conference on Christianity and Classical Thought 

•1:30 
P.M.· Lacrosse, Notre Dame vs. Ash· land, Cartier Field 

•3 
P.M.· Redeal, Nicholas Morrison, clarinet, Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by the Music Dept. 

•7:45 
P.M. · ISO Fesdr.ll, Washington Hall, Sponsored by the International Student Or· ganization 

•12 
P.M. . St. Patrick's Day Festivities, Special Menu provided by University Food Services, D.J. Playing, free hats, Stepan Center, Sponsored by SAB 

•4 
P.M. . Concert, Chester String Quartet with K2ren Buranskas, and Laura Klugherz, Washington Hall, Sponsored by The Dept. of Music 


Saint Mary's Pancakes with Warm Syrups Shrimp Jambalaya Cheese and Mushroom Omelet Deep Dish Vegetable Pie 
r--~~~;fu~=~;;.;;;-1 
t  South Bend Blues?  t  
t t t t  t t t t  

t Watch for South Bend Survival Cups! t 
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J 
~---------------------------------­
-~-­

Friday, March 14, 1986 -page 16
S~orts 
Irish toomey trek begins tonight vs. Little Rock 
Unheralded Trojans are planning to capitalize ' on their opportunity 

ByJEFF BLUMB 
SportsEditor 
MINNEAPOLIS-It will be a very confident Arkansas-little Rock basketball team that faces the Irish tonight (10:37 p.m., WNDU­TV) in the first round of the NCAA tourna­ment. Little Rock's day in the spotlight is today at the Metrodome, and the Trojans plan to take advantage of the opportunity presented them. 

"No one has heard of the University of Arkansas at Little Rock," says Trojan head coach Mike Newell, "but this is the start of something big for UALR. Our players have confidence in themselves and have waited for the opportunity to get some exposure." 
Don't think this fact has been lost on Notre Dame. The Irish realize that they cannot afford to take Little Rock lightly. 
"We've been in the limelight and maybe they haven't," says Irish forward Ken Barlow. "I'm sure they'll come ready to play." 
The game figures to be quite a battle on the boards. Last week, Little Rock lead the country in rebounding margin with the Irish being second in that category. But this week that is reversed, Notre Dame is first and Little Rock is second. 
Up front, Little Rock starts Michael Clarke and Pete Myers, both 6-6, and 6-7 Paris 

McCurdy. Clarke is 15th in the nation in rebounding this week. At guard, Little Rock goes with senior Myron jackson and freshman Paul Springer. 
With such a small front line, the Trojan!> will try to use their quickness to combat Notre Dame's height advantage. Little Rock's game is 


to run, shoot and score a lot. The Trojans are 17th in the country in scoring margin, averag­ing 79.3 points per game. 
"Notre Dame has good beef inside," says Myers. "The key for us to combat that is to use our quickness to get up and down the floor." 
Clarke says he welcomes the chance to face a front line like Notre Dame's. 
"Going up against guys like Tim Kempton and Ken Barlow will give me an opportunity to see how good my talents are," he says. "I've waited for this for a long time. 
"We feel we match up good with them. 
see NCAA, page 11 

Football team opens spring drills this afternoon 
By LARRY BURKE 
AssistantSports Editor 

While most of the eountry is engrossed in the NCAA basketball tournament, it will be football, not basketball, that is the main order of business for Notre Dame players and coaches this afternoon. 
Head Coach Lou Holtz and his Irish open their 1986 spring practice schedule at 3:30p.m. today. The squad has four practices and a scrimmage scheduled before spring break. 
"We're taking a gamble whether we can get some practice time done prior to the spring break," Holtz said. "But due to the fact that this is the first year and a new year, we feel it is to our advantage and to the ad­vanatage of the players if we could possibly have five days of practice before they leave for break. · 
"As I have mentioned before, we do not have very many defensive linemen and we have a severe shortage at offensive line. Number one, if somebody has a bump or a bruise after five days, that gives them quite a bit of time to rehabilitate, so we should start off with a relatively injury-free team after the break. 
"The other thing is after five days, I think we'll have a better idea of what direction we need to go on of­fense, defense and alignment of per-

Spring Football 
'86 

sonnel," Holtz added. "If you wait and go after break and go straight through, you get an individual injured and he may miss a large amount of time without a break. In addition to that, you don't have the time to really sit down and evaluate what personnel changes or position moves you may wish to make." 
Holtz said he hopes the South Bend weather, unpredictable at this time of year, would be cooperative, because outdoor workouts will be important. 
"We can't go indoors if the weat­her is inclement because I under­stand they're having some events here at the ACC which would con­flict," said Holtz. "If we can't go before spring break, we're just going to have to start after, which would be exceptionally disappointing. I don't really know what inclement weather is, though. Snow may not be. 
"The real criteria is whether or not the elements are going to detract from the attention ofan ath­lete to the point that you won't be able to accomplish a whole lot." 
The major problem Holtz will have to face is a shortage oflinemen. As ofnow there are only a total of 1 2 on scholarship-eight on offense and four on defense. 
"That's something that will have an awful lot of effect on what we're able tu do at the other positions," 
see FOOTBALL, page 12 

Notre Dame can't afford t·o look ahead 
MINNEAPOLIS-The Irish arrived here yesterday only to 
from Syracuse to Utah, so its nothing we haven't already find a storm that dropped about five inches ofsnow on the seen." city. But that should be the least of their worries today as Jeff Miami (Ohio) got in so late that it never even got a they face a very physical team in Arkansas-Little Rock. chance to practice at the Metrodbme. 
You might think Notre Dame has an easy ticket to the Out of the way journeys as a result of the weather were
Blumb 
second round because, after all, how good can Arkansas­many. Arkansas-Little Rock spent two hours in LaCrosse, Little Rock be? It would be totally wrong to think that, Wise., yesterday waiting for permission for its plane to land
Sports Editor 
though. Despite its distinct height disadvantage up front in Minneapolis. jack Nolan of WNDU-TV was forced to (6-6 6-6, 6-7), Little Rock makes up for that in roughness, make a detour to Cleveland, while Forrest Miller of the so don't be overly surprised if one or two small scumes Should Phelps decide to take his usual coaching posture South Bend Tribune got to see a lithe bit of Fargo, N.D. breaks out in tonight's game. -acatcher-like crouch position-he will be looking down at (250 miles northwest), when his plane was forced to stop 
Little Rock's style is to get it past halfcourt, throw up a his players instead ofthe usual face-to -face. And every time there for refueling after it could not land in Minneapolis. shot and then crash the boards. That strategy obviously has an Irish player subs in, he will have to step up to the floor. 
As the highest-seeded team in its bracket, Notre
worked for the Trojans this year, or else they wouldn't be "It's a nice court," said Irish forward Ken Barlow, "but Dame will wear its white home uniforms tonight, and
here. it's kind ofdangerous, being lifted bp and all. There are no would do the same again on Sunday if it wins. 
Despite how little the Irish know about Little Rock, dead spots, though." 
For tonight's game, the Irish have beet assigned to the
Notre Dame cannot afford to look ahead to the next round. 
Keep an eye on how the players react to the raised floor locker room regularly used by the NFL's MinnesotaIf the Irish are caught doing that, there will be no next when they dive out of bounds for a loose ball. You don't Vikings. IfNotre Dame gets past Little Rock, il_is assigned toround. 
have to go very far past the base line to suddenly find your­the same locker room for Sunday's second-ro~nd game.
But beyond tonight's game, it will be awfully tough for 
self falling a foot-and-a-half. The University of Minnesota
the Irish to get out of the Midwest Regional. It's certainly An estimated 10,000-15,000 Iowans have bought
also uses a raised floor at its home arena, and it has been 
not out of the question, but Notre Dame would have to go tickets to the tournament games at the Metrodome so that
known to intimidate a first-time opponent on more than
through teams like Kansas, Michigan and North Carolina they might watch both Iowa and Iowa State P~'IY· If Notre
one occasion.
State or Iowa. Dame beats Little Rock and ifIowa can beat North Carolina Yesterday's poor weather in the Midwest delayed the State, the Irish would be facing a very hostile ~rowd in 
• arrival of several teams, including the Irish. Akron got in Sunday's second-round game. More than halfofthe crowd late enough to miss its afternoon pract,ice time, so was is likely to be made ofIowa's boisterous fans. Here are a few interesting facts to keep in mind as the forced to practice after everyone else had finished last Minneapolis and Indianapolis are the finalists to hold Irish open play at the Metrodome tonight: night. the 1991 NCAA tournament finals. How the Metrodome 
The Door at the Metrodome is a raised one, meaning The Irish also arrived a couple hours late at 4:45 p.m., people handle this weekend's first-and second-round that the Irish bench is about a foot-and-a-half below the but had ample time to malte their scheduled 6 p.m. games may go a long way in helping the NCAA make its court. It ought to be somewhat interesting to see how Irish practice time at the Metrodome. "We're used to bad weat­decision. That announcement will be made sometime this coach Digger Phelps adjusts to this. her," said Phelps. "We played 13 road games this season, summer. 



