Alcohol Awareness -page 7 

VOL. XX, NO. 103 MONDAY, MARCH 10,1986 an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


Emergency lifted, violence continues in South Africa 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa -A white woman was ar­rested in connection with bomb at­tacks on police stations, police said yesterday. They also reported that four blacks died in violence, break­ing a relative calm that followed the lifting of South Africa's state of emergency. 
Police said two blacks died over­night after patrols fired on crowds throwing rocks and firebombs. Two other blacks were killed in ap­parent vengeance attacks by fellow blacks. 
President P. W. Botha lifted the seven-month state of emergency Friday, saying the level of violence had dropped to "sporadic and isolated incidents." 
Independent monitors estimate nearly 1,250 people, nearly ail of them blacks, have died in 18 mon­ths of violence fueled by apartheid, under which the country's 5 million whites govern 24 million blacks. 
Police said the white woman, whose name was not released, was held in connection with bombs planted in the toilets of two Johan­nesburg police stations. 
One bomb, a limpet mine, blew up Tuesday at the main J ohan­nesburg station, slightly injuring two police , officers and two 

Cormier emphasizes youth in last SLF speech 
by AMY STEPHAN 
~nior Staff Reporter 
Robert Cormier introduced listeners both to his own writings and those of his young fan s at the closing lecture of the Sophomore Literary Festival Friday night. 
Although Cormier has received critical acclaim for his adult novels, he is best known for his young adult books including "The 
Chocolate  War"  and  "I  Am  the  
Cheese."  
He shared many letters  from  his  

young readers, claiming "you couldn't hire gag writers to write this stuff." 
One young man wrote Cormier that "I enjoyed 'I Am the Cheese' very much. It was very suspenseful, and I like to stay awake when I'm reading a book." 
Although he entertained his au­dience with letters from teens, Cor­mier showed a great deal of sym­pathy for his young readers. "Peo­ple tell them these are the best years of your life, but they're not and they (the teenagers) know that even as you tell them that. They look at you like your're crazy. " 
Cormier said his own children furnished material for some of his work and showed him that adolescence is much the same as it was when he was a teenager. "The things he (my son) was going through as a teenager are the ~arne as what I was going through as a teenager." 
"I wouldn't go through them (my teenage years) again for a $10 million," said Cormier, "and they weren't that tragic." 
Cormier said he had some cen­sorship problems for his books, which are often "grim stories where the good guys lose." This censor­ship is usually not prompted by students or teachers, but by "Peo­ple who see things out of context." 
"These are very conservative times," said Cormier. This makes writers very conscious of censorship as they write, he said. 
"And that's the worst kind of cen­sorship, when it affects what peo­ple write." 
Cormier read a chapter from "Beyond the Chocolate War," in which a young man contemplates 
suicide. He noted that despite this 

difficult theme,  his  publisher  ac­ 
cepted  the  book  without  any  
changes.  

Cormier also read a short story titled "Another of Mike's Girls." He noted that the original title was "Except When You're Shaving, Don't Look Into Mirrors," and claimed it nearly broke his heart when the publisher changed the ti­tle. He asked the audience to decide which they like better. 
"I literally write to find out," said Cormier, "I know my characters and the plot, and I hope they behave." He noted that writers must keep their eyes and hearts and pores open to what's going on around them. 

Astronaut remains found in Challenger cabin 
Assoclaltd Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. ­Searchers have found remains of Challenger's astronauts in the debris of the shuttle's crew com­partment 100 feet down on the floor of the Atlantic Ocean, NASA announced yesterday. 
"Family members of Challengers' crew have been in­formed," a statement said. "In deference to family wishes, NASA will not make further comments until recovery operations and iden­tifications are complete." 
The statement said a search ship, the LCU, made a possible iden­tification of the compartment Fri­day night while making a sonar search some 25 miles northeast of Cape Canaveral. 
"On Saturday morning, after securing operations during the night for safety reasons, the USS Preserver, whose divers are thoroughly briefed on debris iden­tification, began to work," the statement said. 
"Subsequent divers provided positive identification of Challenger crew compartment debris and the existence of crew re­mains," it added. 
NASA said depending on the weather and sea conditions, the task of recovering the compartment wreckage and remains could take several days. 
Seven crew members died when Challeger exploded 73 seconds after liftoff Jan. 28. 
Among those killed was Christa McAuliffe, a New Hampshire schoolteacher who was flying as NASA's first citizen in space. 

The others were commander Richard Scobee, pilot Michael Smith, Ellison Onizuka, Judith Re.,nik, Ronald McNair and Gregory Jarvis. 
NASA said that when the re­mains are recovered they will be taken to a hospital at Patrick Air Force Base, about 25 miles south of Cape Canaveral 
"Assistance in positive identification of crew will be pro­vided by Armed Forces Institute of Pathology personnel," the state­ment said. 
"Local security measures are be­ing taken to assure that recovery operations can take place in a safe and orderly manner," it said. 
civilians, police said. A second mine was found in a station in a residential neighborhood and detonated safely. 
Police spokesman Capt. Henry Beck said the woman also was be­ing questioned regarding a limpet mine blast last year at 'a hotel in the south coast city of East London. 
Beck would give no details of the arrest, or say if she was formally charged. He said arresting officers found three limpet mines. 

Limpet mines, which magnetical­ly attach themselves 'to metal sur­faces, have· been used frequently by black guerrillas of the outlawed African National Congress in their fight to establish black majority rule. 
White radicals have played a fr­inge role for decades in South Africa's black nationalist move­ment, but rarely have been involved in guerrilla warfare. 
A young Johannesburg Nhite man, however, was sentenced last month to seven years in prison after being convicted of undergoing military training with the ANC. 
A white Belgian woman is awaiting trial on charges of smug­gling weapons into South Africa for the ANC. Her husband, wanted on similar charges, is hiding in the Dutch Embassy in Pretoria. 

Car bomb kills five in east Beirut 
Associated Press BEIRUT, Lebanon -A car bomb explosion Saturday killed five civilians near an office of President Amin Gemayel's Phalange Party, police said, and random shelling by Christian gun­ners killed two more in Beirut's Moslem sec.tor. Police said 42 people were in­jured by the car bomb, the eighth in Christian east Beirut since 
January  15,  when  Gemayel  
loyalist  crushed  rival  Christian  
forces.  Most of the  bombings  

have been aimed at Phalange of­fices. Christian and Moslem militiamen meanwhile battled with artillery across the Green Line, which divides the capital into sectarian halves. Police said shelling killed two civilians and wou.nded at least three. 
In another development Satur­day, an anonymous ~ller told a Western news agency the Shiite Moslem extremist group Islamic Jihad will kill a French hostage unless two iraqis deported to Iraq by France are sent back. 
see BEIRUT, page 4 

The Observer Monday, March 10, 1986-page 2 



In Brief 
Mysterious graffiti artists have students at the University of Wisconsm baffled. The graffiti -a circled letter J -has been appearing on campus buildings, desks and blackboards, but no one seems to know its origin or meaning. 
The Observer 
Four Notre Dame professors have received 
fellowships from the National Endowment for the Humanities to undertake full-time study, research and writing in their selected fields. The professors are Stephen Gersh, professor of Medieval studies; Philip Gleason, professor of American history; John O'Brien, professor of philosophy; and Thomas Schlereth, pro­fessor of American studies. -The Observer 
The stillborn birth in LeMans last week has 
spurred a number of intervention programs at Saint Mary's, most of which took place last night. Small teams visited campus living units yesterday and met with students. Mary Anne O'Donnell, ac­ting dean of student affairs, said ''Students are receiving our full support." -The Observer 
Nicholas Carpenter, an assistant professor of civil engineering at Notre Dame since last October, has received a Presidential Young Investigator Award from the National Science Foundation. The five-year award provides up to $100,000 annual­ly from the NSF and other sponsors who contribute matching funds. -The Observer 
Of Interest 
Careers and families will be the topic of an informal panel discussion with three professional women tonight at 8 in the Center for Social Concerns. -The Observer 
Dan Peek, lead singer of the group "America," will ap­pear at Stepan Center Tuesday night instead of the South Dining Hall as originally announced. -The Observer 
Universal Capitalism will be the topic of a presenta­tion by Stuart Speiser, an international lawyer concerned with economic issues regarding social justice. The presentation will take place at the Center for Social Concerns at 7:30 tonight. A recep­tiQn will follow. -The Observer 
Stuart Speiser, international lawyer and author of "How to End the Nuclear Nightmare," will give a lecture on "living the Challenge of Peace" tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. Speiser's lecture is sponsored by Notre Dame's CSC. -The Observer 

Weather 

It WOn't last. An 80 percent chance of showers and a few thunderstorms today. Turning colder by late afternoon with the high around 60. Cloudy and colder tonight with a 50 percent chance of showers and the low in the mid 30s. Mostly cloudy and cold tomor­row with the high in the upper 30s. -AP 

_.. ,Ihe_ ObserYer-­
Th~ ObMrv~r ( l ~~ c;\ll;J l. f()OO I ,., puhh,hrd \1onda~ throu~h J·ru..la~ t·xn·pt dunn~( exam and v•Kallon penod~ The Observer 1:"1 puhla,hcd h~ the ~tudt:nt!'otJf lht·l mH·r,lt~ ol ~otre Dame and ~aant \1ary .., ( olle~t· ~ub~.:nptton!'l rna"~ he purt:haM"d lor. I -\0 pt"r ~t"ar ( llll per 't"me,trr l h~ wrtllnl( The Ob~rver. P ( > Hox <}. :\nlrr I>.unt·. lnd1ana 
f(l«,c;(l 
Thr Obsrrvrr" • rn~mllcr ot The As..ocl.ated Press. All rc-prodtKI<on n~-:tu' arc­
rc:!lf·ryed 

Memories of another 'king' revived by Switek election 
Two weeks ago, notre Dame embarked on a journey beyond the dimensions of time and space, beyond the wildest of imaginations, a journey into the student government zone. 
Although John Switek and Don Montanaro ap­peared origianl in their Crayola campaign, employ­ing such slogans as "Mom let us stay up late to do this," some of the older members of the Notre Dame community may have experienced a sense of deja vu. Perhaps it was last Friday's front page photo of a Burger King crowned Montanaro that sent people's memories into a tailspin. 
The date was March 3, 1972. notre Dame student~ filed into the dining halls for lunch. They grapped their Observer to see the results of yesterday's student government elections, and discovered that the student body had elected its first king: King Kersten. 
Robert Calhoun Kersten and his running mate, Un­candidate the Cat, a genuine tabby, had entered the race for student body president as one of nine tickets. Kersetne tossed his hat into the ring because the redundance of the other candidates was wearing on his ears. He also explained that he had no close fiends in childhood and that he was lookin for affirmation. In the other candidate's platforms they promised ''wholesale reconstruction" of student government; "a fresh approach;" and "to better the social situation at Notre Dame." 
Kersten initiated his program from the second stall in the Walsh Hall fourth floor lavatory. He continued to run his campaign from the fourth floor ledge of Walsh, and other assorted dorm roofs. 
As part of his alternative platform, King Kersten recommended the following: Financial Aid should be distributed by lottery rather than grade point average. 
As a solution to the q~.inority problem at Notre Dame, the recrutiment of yanamo Indians from southern Brazil, needs to be intensified as there are no Yanamomos enrolled in the University at the time. 
All student government institutions should be abolished and replaced by an oligarchy consisting of Kersten and his close friends. "I don't think Notre Dame is ready for a deomocracy yet." He promised that "those who voted for him will be given preferen­tial treatment. 
A three-point social program needs to be enacted that included: over-the-hump dances on Sunday Mor­nings, student attendance at merger talks (:with Saint Mary's), and "negotiation for a Rocka-Rocka discotheque franchise on campus. 
Two days before the election the King led the pack in the polls, but with nine tickets, a run-off ·was predicted. The showdown was between Ombudsman Paul Dziedzic and the Prime Mover, as Kersten liked to call himself. 
$7.27 and a few hours spent writing speeches is all 


Styling 
-----·-································ 's Hair 
531 N. Michigan Sr., 


PREPARE FOR: 



LSAT 
• 
TESTN TAPE' LIBRARY 

• 
REiNFORCEMENT TEST 


• HOMESTUOY PACKET 1717 E. South Bend Ave South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 272-4135 


Sarah Hamilton 
Editor-in-Chief 

,, 

that the election had cost Kersten, but with that invest­ment, he earned 65 percent of the student body vote. Not only was he King, but now he was president as well. 
One of Kersten's first priorities was to plan a cor­onation ·in Sacred Heart Church and an inaugural ball. Father Toohey, then director of Campus Ministry, threw a religious wrench into Kersten's regal plans. Toohey said before he could permit Kersten's coronation, the King would have to walk on water, specifically St. Joseph's Lake. 
A few days later, the Observer carried a photograph of the King doing just that. In full majestic attire, Kersten was standing and walking on the lake. Evidence of a coronation could not be documented. 
As a constitutional monarch, Kersten declared mar­tial law and disbanded the Student Senate. he threatedned to take over The Observer and WSND­AM, but without success. After several months of rul­ing, the King decided he had overstayed his monarchy and so abdicated his position in favor of his cat. 
Kersten's tale reeks of Cinderella. Who would think that a former alternate homeroom student council representative at North Juniper High School in Fort Dodge, Iowa, could rise in the political process to the lofty office of Notre Dame student body president? Only in America. Only at Notre Dame. 


THE DEPARTMENT 
OF THEOLOGY 
INviTES you TO coNsidER AMAjOR OR ASECONd MAjOR iN THEoloqy 
COME ANd TAlk iT OVER WiTH 
WILLIAM STOREY_j 
PRof. EMERiTus A fouNdER of THE MAjOR's PROGRAM 
LESLIE GRIFFIN~ 
UNO 1978 (MAjOR iN THEOlOGY) PH.D YAlE~ Ass'T. PRof. of ETHics iN THE DEpARTMENT of THEoloGy 


------~--------------~-.--~-·~­
The Observer Monday, March 10, 1986-page 3 
The Observer !Todd P. Taylor 

Spring Fever 
Students across campus traded scarves for shorts and books for cleats as the temperature hit60 yesterday. Morrissite Tim Hartigan picks up on the lacrosse trend during a game on South Quad. 



Kilbourne discusses exploitation of women in advertising and media 
By PEGGY PROSSER 
StaffReporter 
In advertising, "the woman is the sex object, the man is the success object," said Dr. Jean Kilbourne in her lecture last night at the library auditorium. 
As the first speaker in the lecture series sponsored in part by the junior classes of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, Kilbourne began her lecture, titled, "The Quiet Revolu­tion," by telling the audience that most advertising is stupid and trivial, but said "It's my feding that advertising is one of the most powerful educational forces on to­day's society." 
As the foundation of the mass media, the focus of advertising is to sell products, Kilbourne said. 
"I feel that advertising reflects the mythology of our culture and distorts the reality. Everyone is shown as heterosexual, the nuclear family is there, and no one is shown as disabled, either physically or mentally, unless you count the men in toilet bowls," said Kilbourne. 
Kilbourne focused her lecture on the image of women in advertising, and described how women are shown as either sex objects, or "demented housewives, pathlogically obsessed with cleanliness." 
'Sexism and sex sterotyping exists in all aspects of society, but especially in advertising," Kilbourne said. She went on to ex­plain that advertising teaches that everyone can be consumers, hap­piness can be bought, and con­sumers are encouraged to buy things they don't need or could be harmful. 
Kilbourne began her slide presen­tation with a slide of the "ideal female beauty," shown as a flawless, porcelain-faced woman. 
"The look is artificial, and can only be achieved artificially," she said. ''The message here is change the way you look, disguise yourself, buy the right products." 
Another slide showed a facial 

sggRoundtrip.Anywherewe go. 
This Spring Break, if you and your friends then be good for travel for IS days from the date are thinking about heading to the slopes, the of purchase. . beach or just home for a visit, Greyhound' can So this Spring Break, get a real break. take you there. For only $99 or less, round trip. Go anywhere Greyhound goes for $99 or less. 
From February IS through April27, all you For more information, call Greyhound. do is show us your college student I. D. card 
Muso prtS<nl a valid coJleF srudenoi.D card upon purchase. !'Oo o<her dasrounos aprlv. h;k<l> m non1nfli(M'Iblt and good for tnvel on Gr<Yhoomd Lines, Inc., uod 01htr .....1Copo11111 Cllff1<f' l :..U.n 
1tS11'1Ctions apply. Offer dl'~ 2115186. Otfer lirruoed Noo valid "' Canada
when you purchase your ticket. Your ticket will 
GOGREYHOUND 

.Aiicfleave the driving to us. 
Michiana Regional Airport, 4671 Terminal Drive, South Bend, IN, 287-6541 
makeup. The spray had a plastic 
base, and is no longer on the 
market, she said. 
"They'll even sell products that 
are hazardous to your health." 
A slide entitled "You Don't Sleep With Teddy Bears Anymore," ad­dressed the issue of advertising of feminine hygiene products. Slides such as these depict the loathing and contempt for women's bodies advertisers have, Kilbourne said. 
''The message here to women is to look young and childlike, and to stay a child at heart," she said while showing a slide that read "Because innocence is sexier than you think." 
"Innocent, yet sexy, virginal yet experienced. Now we all know that's tricky," she said, which brought laughter from the au­dience. 
Kilbourne ended the lecture by 
showing slides of men with children 
in positive, nurturing roles, and 
children shown as independent and 
creative. She urged those listening 
to protest advertising that is offen­
sive, and that awareness is half the 
battle. 
Switek says he will keep presidency 
By LYNNE R. STRAND 
StaffReporter 
Mike Switek, student body president-elect, landed on the Michiana Regional Airport runway and returned to his Notre Dame do­main last night. 
Switek, who was flying home to Houston when Thursday's election results were announced, said on last night's return, "It feels okay." 
Switek jaunted down the plane steps and bowed to Vice President­elect Don Mantanaro, who crown­ed him with a royal purple Burger King crown, a remnant of Thursday night's victory election. Switek than bent down and kissed the ground. 
Switek, who was informed of his election 4:30 a.m. Friday, said his first thoughts were, "Boy, we don't have enough crayons for all those people." 
He said, "There's a crazy rumor that we never wanted to run and that we would step down. We say that's stove-top stuffing. We're staying. 
"I was really surprised, to put it mildly," he continued. "I'm ner­vous now. We were never nervous before. We never thought we'd win. 
''There's so much to learn. We're glad to see we're being well receiv­ed. Nobody realized much about us before," he said, adding "One time we talked about what would hap­pen if by ~ivine intervention we won, and we decided we would do a good job." 
Montanaro said his being a sophomore would "represent a larger percent of the student population," in the presidency. Switek is a junior. 
"I would like to see better organization of finances and focus on the Hall Presidents' Council," Switek said. 
The Proof 
fs fn 
the Taste! 


Open Mon-Sat 11 •• S•n4p• 
Plua-&ndwlcha-&lad3 Beer& Wine 
277-2020 Loeatflfl •••,......d (Ne.ttoRa.....,. 
The Observer 


4 French TV crewmen kidnapped in Beirut 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT. Lebanon Four French television crewmen were kidnapped Saturday by gunmen in Moslem west Beirut, witnesses said. 
The attack came hours after an anonymous caller claiming to speak for the Islamic Jihad group threatened to kill one of another group of French captives. 
The journalists from Frances's Antennae -2 television station were identified by other French reporters as Phillipe Rochot, Georges Hensen, Ourel Cornea and Jean­Louis Normandin. 
They were seized by gunmen near the Sultan Ibrahim restaurant in the seaside Jnah district Saturday afternoon, according to the witnesses. 
The Lebanese driver of their car was held with them for about seven hours, then released and warned not to talk about the abductions, other French newsmen reported. 
No group claimed responsibility 


Beirut 
continued from page 1 
Police said the car bomb ex­ploded at I: 15 p.m. in a street crowded with weekend shoppers in the Ashrafiyeh district. It damaged the Phalange office, on the first floor of a six-story building, and set 35 cars and a gas station afire. 
Chief Warrant Office Youssef Bitar, a top police explosives ex­pert, estimated the car was pack­ed with 175 pounds of TNT. He said the explosives were wired to four 81 mm mortar shells which failed to detonate. 
No group claimed responsibjli­ty. 
The bombing came as the Vatican's foreign minister, Mon­signor Achille Silvestrini, left Rome for Beirut on a peace mis­sion. He is scheduled to meet with Gemayel and President Hafez Assad of Syria, the main power broker in Lebanon who is now at odds with Gemayel. 
Also Saturday, police said rival palestinian groups clashed in Beirut's Chatilla refugee camp with rocket-propelled grenades and machine guns. Initial reports said casualties resulted. 
Gemayel supporters have blam­ed the car bombings on followers of Elie Hobeika, 29, whose militiamen were defeated by the president's men in January. 

Corrections 
Because of an editing error, misinformation was given in a story about Alcohol Awareness Week on page 4 of Friday's Observer. The article should have said Ceil Paulsen is the assistant director of student ac­tivities and that the week's events are sponsored by the Around the Corner Club. Paulsen's name was also misspelled in the article. 
Also, because of a reporting error in a story about Thursday's HPC meeting it was said that if one of the abstaining hall presidents had voted to adopt the proposed constitution it would have been passed. It 
would have taken three more votes for the proposal to pass, not one. 

for seizing the Frenchmen, who had flown to Beirut after Islamic Jihad, or Islamic Holy War, claim­ed Wednesday to have killed resear­cher Michel Seurat, one of four Frenchmen it claims to have held captive for months. Seurat's body, however, has not turned up. 
Earlier Saturday, a man called a Western news agency in Beirut and said Islamic Jihad would kill one of Seurat's fellow captives. if two Ira­qis that France deported to Iraq are not sent back to France. 
The caller, who said he reprensented Islamic Jihad, a fun­damentalist Shiite Moslem group, gave no deadline. 
A purported Islamic Jihad state­ment Wednesday said Seurat was "executed" in retaliation for the deportation from France of l3 Moslems, including the Iraqis last month. 
The caller Saturday said that if "the French government does not move swiftly to return the Iraqis, then we will execute one of the (French) diplomats:' 
-------------~----~ --------~------­
Monday, March 10, 1986-page 4 
The Observer !Todd P. Taylor 


Play guitar 

Masa Hoshino, ri~ht, managed to find a place on thefieldhouse Mall yesterday. amid the construction to entertain Frank Zacher/ 



~ :=:lDo Gays Have Rights at Notre Dante?~ 
Recently, the University administration once again made clear its preferential concern for financial security over and against its much-touted concern for social justice. Apparently, the image of the University can not be tarnished by any affiliation with gay and lesbian people. Thu~ it happened the station managers of WSND-FM and WVFI-AM were ordered to retract a public service announcement submitted by GAYS & LESBIANS AT NOTRE dame/ST. MARY'S. 
The University operates WSND-FM under the terms of broadcast license granted by the Federal Communications Commission. It is a public radio station and, as such, it has an obligation to serve the public interest. The station fulfills this 

obligation  primarily  by  broad­ 
casting  public  service  
announcements  free  of  charge  

to that portion of Michiana within a 35 mi. radius of the University. Listeners contribute about $6000 annually toward the operation of the station and these listeners have the right to submit and have broadcasted their public service announcements. The text of our public service announcement Is essentially contained within Statement I of our organization's Statement of Purpose(appears above). While there are those who may find the very topic of the announcement to be emotionally upsetting, the announcement contains no obscenity and no falsehood which might make It worthy of censorship. Hasn't the University administration, then, violated the stipulations of Its broadcast to serve the public interest? Does the administration hold that it can suspend the right of gay and lesbian citizens to freedom of speech under the First 
Ammendent 7 
r-~--------------~~------------------------------~ Gays 8t Lesbians at ND/SMC Statement of Purpose 
I. Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame and St. Mary's College(GLND·SMC Is an organization centered on the campuses of N.D. and SMC 
The administration seems to Its membership consists of undergraduates, graduate students 
find our existence to be more alumni, faculty, staH and concerned persons from the local community 
than it can stomach. Are there moral, ethical or legal reasons 

II. Aware of the struggle many gay and lesbian. persons race In comlnQ for this revulsion? Or is it that to grips with their sexual orientation In the homophobic atmosphere we simply may not be good for In which they live, GLND·SMC seeks to support those who have the University's public image, Identified themselves as gay or lesbian or who are In the process o which is to say, not good for exploring their sexual orientation. the University's financial port­
folio? 

Ill. GLND/SMC seeks the ongoing education of Its members concerning We urge the administration gay/lesbian Issues and wishes to keep Its members Informed about to revoke its retraction of our current developments In the gay and lesbian community. GLND/SMC public service announcement also seeks to Inform and educate the non-gay/lesbian segment of the and we invite the administra­Notre /St. Mary's community regarding these same Issues. tion to engage with us in ongo­
ing dialogue on this and other 

IV. 
GLND·SMC provides opportunities for gays and lesbians to socialize pertinent issues. together 

V. 
In order to be an eHectlve Instrument to advance Justice, to achieve equality for gay and lesbian persons, and to be more available to those who would benefit from this organization, GLND·SMC claims recognition from the administrations or both Institutions as a 


society representing gays and lesbians. 
On the 28th of February, the out­going student managers of the campus radio stations resigned their positions to protest the administration's attempt to censor people, who according to the Roman Catholic Bishops of the 

U.S. " ... should not suffer from prejudice against their basic human rights. They have a right to repect, friendship and justice. They should have an active role in the Christian community." (National Conf. of Catholic Bishops, "To Live in Christ Jesus" 1976). The teaching of the Church Is clear:homosexual orientation is in no way held to be a sinful condition; only homosexual activity Is held to be morally objectionable. No part of our Statement of Purpose advocates sexual activity. Doesn't the administration violate the spirit and the letter of the Church's teaching regarding gay people when It justifies the re· traction of our announcement by 
implying  our  announcement  or  
our  existence  runs  counter  to  
Catholic TeachlnR?  

Most importantly, however, might it not be that the administration's recent actions do not reflect the gospel imperative? 
In the Gospels, Jesus has many confrontations with those who lost the spirit of their faith and were more concerned with those external manifestations of piety. In such passages as The Good Samaritan, The Women Caught In Adultery, The Call of Matthew, The Pharisee and the Tax Collector, and the ·Penitent Woman, Jesus deals with those who consider themselves to be justified In the eyes of God, but who simultaneously hold their brothers and sisters In contempt. Can there be any doubt as to which part the administration is playing with respect to gay and lesbian people at Notre Dame? Rather than accepting gay and lesbian students as a fact of life and as a part of God's saving plan, doesn't the administration cast Itself in the role of those who des· pised Christ because of the company he kept? Yet, we have done no wrong: not prostituted ourselves, nor committed adultery 
__nor robbed the ooor. __wetu.st are. 
*"we stand In qppqaltlqn tq every IQrm Cll harraument and unjust dlocrlmlnatiC!ft directed against hQmQHxuals and we reapect them tully as leiiQw pilgrims e~n e~ur earthly Je~umey !Qward the KlngdQm Ql ~." Roman Coth. bishops ol Moss. 1984 
*"...becauH the prejudice against hC!mQHxuala Ia a great me~ral evil, and becauH Church penqna have ce~ntrlbuled tq the CQnllllutiQn Cll an envlrqnment !hot 11 preJudicial IQ he~me~Hxuals, the Church 11 HriQUSfy Qbllged IQ WQrk IQWard the upi'C!Qtlng ql such 
prejudice... " Roman Catholic bishops ot Washington State, 1983 
* •"...the whe~le believing ce~mmunlty mull ce~me tQ appreciate the e~ppreaalve walla !hot have been and are being erected tQ out ua Clll lrqm e~ur hQmQHXUal brqthers and llllers. And we mull WC!rk IQIIelher Qn all aide• Ql lhCIH walls ICI lear them dQwn ... until the barriers Cll anger and mleunderatandlng and tear thai divide u1 exlll nQ me~re." Senate of Priests, Archdiocese of Son Francisco, 1983. 
Gays&. Leablons at Notre Dame/ Saint Mary's College P.O. !lox 194 Notre Dame,ln. 46556 
*Paid Advertisement 

The Observer Monday, March 10, 1986-page 5 
I

I 
YOUR OCULAR ACCOMMODATION NEVER LOOKED SO GOOD. 









ON FRAMES 
when you buy prescription lenses. 
SAVEUPTO~O 
ON CONTACTS.t 
Notre Dame stresses healthy eating during week-long series of events 
By THERESA WEITHMAN a run for life. According to Far­alternative to beef stew and News Staff nia, the Heart Lights 5K Run biscuits. will have three divisions -"People imagine wheat germ, "Heart Lights: Designed for women's, men's, and fun run­bean sprouts, and strange things 
Life," a weeklong health ner. There are no entry fees, but as nutrition. A lot of times they awareness focus designed to there are door prizes, individual don't realize that merely choos­educate students, faculty and winner prizes, top dorm prizes ing skim milk over whole milk, staff in cardiovascular health, and a free T-shirt for all who or margarine over butter pro­starts next week at Notre Dame. finish. vides a more healthy diet," Far­
According to Suzanne Farnia, John Gerrity, manager of the nia explained. manager of University Food Oak Room Cafeteria, said the Services' marketing and nutri­activities planned by a commit­According to Gerrity, health tion division, the week has been tee of Food Service managers professionals and organizations planned to make students more ''will hopefully inform the living will be at the dining halls on aware of their health choices on French fries type." Monday and Wednesday with now. advice to help students select the 
"Unless someone or their "The whole program stresses right mix of nutrition and exer­close friend has had heart pro­increases in fruits, vegetables, cise for good health. blems, like bypass surgery, they multigrains, fibers, and Local health organizations, won't understand. Healthy decreases in fats, simple sugars, for example, will provide eating starts now and your and sodium," said Farnia. "But biofeedback measurements of lifestyle starts now," she said. we don't want to say diet; we stress, heart monitors, and exer­
Highlighting health week is want to say look at your food cise bikes. "The average speaker Dr. James Fink, a disci­choices." student doesn't take the time to ple of the founder of aerobics Lunch and dinner at both din­think about health practices that and a renowned expert in the ing halls will reflect the choice will be beneficial later," Gerrity field of cardiac rehabilitation. between an ideal or average said. Fink will speak Tuesday on meal on Tuesday, Farnia said. "We would just like to make "Designing a Lifestyle for Car­Two distinct menus will be people aware, maybe turn on a diovascular Health." available, with differences such little light inside their head," he 
Rounding off the week will be as veal stew as a nutritional added. 

SPRING TRAVEL SPECIAL 

to Chicago's O'Hare 

t:J Midway Airport One Way$ZC)OO Round Trip$)C)OO 
Available february 15th through March 31st. Tickets purchased usable throUJhout 1986 

ND to host 4 colleges in I\1BA contest 
By MISSY KOLOSZAR 
News Staff 
The College of Business Ad­ministration is sponsoring its fifth annual MBA Invitational Case Competition. The event will be held today and tomorrow and will in­clude representatives from the University of Illinois, University of Missouri, Ohio State, Penn State, Vanderbilt and Notre Dame. 
Each team consists of three students who are candidates for an MBA degree at their school along with a faculty advisor. This year Notre Dame's student represen­tatives are Robert Grossi, Michael Hunt and James Mock, all second­year MBA students. Their faculty advisor is Assistant Professor Ben Roach of the management depart­ment. 
"The competition was organized in 1982 by two Notre Dame MBA 


students, John Cole and Tom Anderson," said Professor Paul
Extended wear contacts $40 off. Conway. Conway has served as faculty coordinator for the five
Daily-wear contacts $20 off. 
Eye examination extra. Available by independent licensed optometrist. 
~-------,

FREE TINT 
1
IWith the purchase of a complete pair of 1 prescription glosses wtth plastic lenses. 1 
1 Coupon good tor a solid tint In any color. 
1
L_ _______ _J 

THE SCIENCE OF BETTER VISION. THE ART OF LOOKING GOOD. 
ONer good at partiCipating oltlcea only. Some reahicltona apply. t Otlllegular price ol replacement lenaea. 
LaSalle Square 234-3123 UnlversHy Park Mall277·8682 
McKinley Town &Country 256-1864 Elkhart Mall-Elkhart 295-2496
rutll Cenler:Piymwlh 93=::~~~~Main S1leel, 684·8008 
years of the competition and chair­
INSIDE )
INDIANA {IIJO 332,.7323 LOCAL (21t) 674..6H3 

man of the Planning and SteeringOr call y•ar tnvel apat 
Committee. 

·· 
Notre Dame won the competition in 1982 as well as in 1983. Since then, the MBA Invitational has ex­panded to include six, rather than four, universities. 
COMING! g···:· 


Receiving their special cases in business policy this morning, the teams have 24 hours to prepare their 25-minute presentation and 


SPRING . 
BREAK .. 
defenses. These will then be judged tomorrow by a panel of business leaders and Cynthia Montgomery, a distinguished scholar in strategy






/_L,~ ~~­
from Northwestern University. For the 24-hour competition, the teams will be furnished with

w DO/TALL/~ 
microcomputers to aid them in their analyses of the cases. In addi­

I I~Condition In Booth 
tion, each team can bring a max­imum of 10 business-related books 

I 
~Tan In Beds 
and can use reference materials 
from the Memorial Library. 

~Relax on Massage Bed 
The competition finals, which are funded in part by a grant from

Call277-7026 
Johnson and Johnson Companies of New Brunswick, N.J., will take

J.M.S. PLAZA 
place in the auditorium of the

4609 Grape Road 
Center for Continuing Education

'MN-HMWiw tomorrow from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. It is open to the public. 
Mishawaka 

------------------~~-------~ -~----­
a ­
The Observer Monday, March 10, 1986-page 6 



Choosing a long distance companyis a lotlike choosing a roommate. 

It'sbeHertoknowwhat they'relike beforeyou move in. 
Living with someone for the first time can be an "educational" experience. 
And living with a long distance company isn't any different. Because some companies may not give you all the services you're used to getting from AT&T. 
For instance, with some companies you have to spend a certain amount before you qualify for their special volume discounts. With some others, voice quality may vary. 
But when you choose AT&T, there won't be any surprises when you move in. You'll get the same high:.. quality, trouble-free service you're used to. 
With calls that sound as close as next door. And discounts off our Day Rate on your state-to-state calls. 
With savings of over 50% during weekends until 5pm Sundays, or nights from llpm to Sam, Sunday through Friday. And 40% discounts evenings between 5pm and llpm, Sunday through Friday. 
With AT&T, you'll continue to get services like im­mediate credit for wrong numbers and collect calling. And long distance operators to help you anytime there's a problem on the line. 
So when you're asked to choose a long distance com­pany, choose AT&T. Because whether you're into Mozart or metal, quality is the one thing everyone can agree on. Call 1 800 222-0300 for more information or to choose AT&T. Reach out and touch someone:' 
Cc!AT&T 1986 



Accent 
Monday, March 10, 1986-page 7 

S.M.A.S.H.ing a_lcoholism 
P.A.CIMINO 
features writer 
Alcohol use had always been an important issue at Notre Dame. With the unveiling of the ad­ministration's new alcohol policy, which went into effect almost two years ago, student consumption of alcoholic beverages has become the topic of much heated debate. 
Recently, the issue has sim­mered; there remains, however, a feeling on campus that many students are uninformed about the effects of alcohol. With this feeling in mind, Notre Dame's Alcohol Concerns Commission, the Around the Corner Club and the Student Activities Board have organized Alcohol Awareness Week. 
Fifi Paraiso, Notre Dame's alcohol concerns commissioner, ex­plained the schedule of events. 
The week began yesterday with a guest speaker, Dr. Tom Goodale from the University of Denver. Tonight at Breen-Phillips Hall, Paraiso said a panel discussion will take place in conjunction with the showing of the film, ".10 Kills." 
The film is 28 minutes long and was made by Notre Dame senior Marty McNulty and the South Bend police. It will be followed by a discussion featuring Molly Sullivan, director of Alcohol Education at Saint Mary's; Karen 
M. of Alcoholics Anonymous; Dr. Terry Alley of Renaissance Center; and Barb Noser, the executive director of the Alcoholism Council. Paraiso noted that the film concerns a before-and-after driving experiment, the results of which "Pretty much shocked Marty (McNulty)," according to Paraiso. 
On Tuesday, there will be a se­cond panel discussion featuring Sullivan, Noser and Sally Coleman of Lutheran General Hospital. It will be held in the Dillon Hall chapel and immediately following the discussion there will be a con­cert at Stepan Center by Dan Peek (formerly of the group America) and his band. Paraiso said that Peek was at one time a heavy drug user and alcoholic, but who has now reformed his life and is will­
ingly giving  his  time  to  increase  
alcohol awareness.  
Alcohol  Awareness  Week  con­ 

tinues on Wednesday with the film "Choices" and a discussion featur­ing Notre Dame students, some of whom are former alcoholics themselves. "It (the film) contains inserts from different 'MASH' episodes and is something that everyone can relate to. Above all, it shows you that there are alter­natives and you can be responsi­ble," said Paraiso. 
On Thursday, there will be a dance held at Stepan Center featur­ing a D.J., "The Soundmaster." In the spirit of the week, the dance will be a purely social event and Paraiso said free soft drinks will accompany reduced-price pizza and nachos. "This is a chance," she said, "for people to just get out, dance and have fun without drink­ing alcohol." 
The week concludes Friday with a Bacchus Regional Workshop at the Center for Continuing Educa­tion. Paraiso mentioned that students from five different states will be coming to the conference with Bacchus members. She said, "Bacchus is a group that teaches responsible drinking and has been established nationwide." 
Paraiso encouraged all students to attend the events, as they are in­teresting, informative sessions designed to help students choose to drink maturely. None of the ses­sions have been constructed to try to stop people from drinking, but to just let them know that one does not have to drink to excess to have fun. 
Alcohol Awareness Week 
March 10-14, 1986 
Monday, March 1 0 
7:30.9:30 p.m. 
Tuesday, March 11. 8:30-11:30 p.m. 
Wednesday, March 12 8:00-10:00 p.m. 
Thursday, March 13 9:0Q-1 :00 a.m. 
Friday, March 14 8:30-4:00 p.m. 
Schedule of Events 
Panel Discussion a VIewing of Film, ".10 Kills" Guest Speakers Mally ?ullivan. Director of Alcohol Education at St. Mary's College Karen M .. Alcoholics Anonymous Dr Terry Alley. Renaissance Center Barb Nose. Execut1ve Director of Alcoholism Council [At Breen-Phillips Hall) 
Panel Discussion a Performance by Dan Peek, voice of the musical group America Guest Speakers: Molly Sullivan. Director of Alcohol Education at St. M<~ry·s College Barb Noser. Executiver Director of Alcoholism Council Sally Coleman. Luthe•on General Hospital [Discussion 1n Dillon Hall Chapel at 8:30 p:m.. with musical performance following at Stepan Center) 
Panel Discussion (featuring Notre Dame students) a 
viewing of film "Choices" Guest Panelists: Bryan Dedrick Mark Herkert 
Stash Marczyk Kristen Williams 
Marty McNulty [At Nieuwland Science Hall. Room 118) 
D.J. "The Soundmaster" aDance [At Stepan Center] 
Bacchus Regional Workshop [At Center for Continuing Education) 
'T'L-r\L.-~~­Questions should be 
~ ==:=-.1.-=1-:R:~~I.~n;J.-_ --directed to Mary Jacoby at the Observer office (239-5313).
Thelndependentstudentnewspaper Resumes and personalserving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is statements are d\Je Thursday,accepting applications for the following 
March 13. positions: 
• Assistant Features Editor 
The Observer 
• Features Copy Editor 
3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 


Pennies­the Herb of American coins 
Dave Dvorak 
Out of the lunchbox 

There's a pewter beer mug in my room that holds my spare pen­

nies. I don't think I've ever drunk beer out of it, since it's always 
been full of pennies -it's been accumulating them since the begin­
ning of the school year. 
Yet, I never seem to have peooies when I really need them. 
I'll go to the bookstore and my bill will come to something like 

$9.01. As I whip out a $10 bill, the cashier politely asks me, 
"Would you happen to have a penny, sir?" I fumble through my 
pockets in search of a penny -just one penny. No luck. 
So I surrender my $10 bill and get 99 cents in change. Instead of 

a crisp, green George Washington to slip neatly in my wallet, I've 
got a bulging pocket loaded with change. I leave the bookstore, 
feeling a bit depressed. 
Face it, nobody likes to walk around all day with a pocketful of 

loose coins that make an annoying clink with every step. 
So what do I do with my 99 cents' worth of change? Well, the 

quarters are always useful -they can be used to make phone calls 
or to play video games, pool, or a popular illegal drinking game. 
The dimes are good for the campus copy machines; the nickels 

are accepted in parking meters and all major vending machines in 
the continental United States. 
But what about the pennies? What do I do with those four 

miserable pennies? To tell you the truth, usually I just bring them 
home at the end of the day and toss them into my pewter beer mug. 
And my mountain of copper grows. 
There's really not much else you can do with pennies anymore. I 

can't think of any item in this country that you can still buy for a 
penny. 
When we were kids, we could get a juicy pink piece of Bazooka bubble gum -complete with comic strip, fortune message and junk merchandise offer -all for a penny. You remember that. Today, the same costs three cents. 
We've all heard Ben Franklin's famous quote, "A penny saved is a penny earned." Before taking his words too seriously, though, we have to remember that he said that back in the 18th century, when a penny was actually worth something. Why, old Ben pro­bably bought his famous kite for a penny. Today he'd have a hard time finding a gumball for that much. 
Pitching pennies was once a popular American pastime, but that was back during the prehistoric ages, when our parents were grow­ing up. Try to show a kid today how to pitch pennies, and he'll be bored in about six seconds. It's kind of hard to find new ways to amuse a child who's been exposed to PacMan, Go-Bots, MTV and personal computers -all by the age of six. 
It's-sad but so true. Pennies have come to be nothing but"trivial nuisances in our society. They're not useful for anything anymore, so we bring them home and merely let them accumulate -in beer mugs, in vases, in piggy banks, in jewelry boxes and in the bottoms of dresser drawers. 
Today I decided to count the number of pennies in my beer mug. I added in a few loose pennies lying on my dresser, as well as a few from my pants pocket. 
The grand total: 116 -116 idle pennies! Each of those pennies is pretty useless by itself, but taken together, they add up to $1.16. Suddenly, they don't sound quite so useless. 
Now, let's extrapolate a bit. Many Americans have more than 116 pennies to their names, and I'm sure many others have fewer. But, for the moment, let's take 116 as an average figure. 
If every American had 116 pennies lying around in his home, apartment or dorm room, that would mean that there is $2SS.2 
million in pennies lying stagnantly in America! That's almost four times the amount of money Live Aid raised. Eat your heart out, BobGeldof. 
And who knows how many more pennies lie at the bottom of reflecting pools, lakes, ponds and wishing wells? The numbers would be staggering. 
I guess that's kind of far-fetched thinking. But one of these days, I swear I'm going to take my 116 pennies and buy something with them. It won't be much, and it'll probably really irritate some cashier somewhere, but at least I'll have those pennies off my 
hands. And I'll finally get to try out my pewter beer mug. 



~i~~~_()__i_Il___t_________________
M_on-da-y,_Ma-rc-hl-0,_19-86--pa-ge-8 

'We The People' used as puppet for petty ideas 

On my way to the dining hall one night last week, I found a small black and blue booklet lying on the floor outside my room. It was titled ''We The People," which seemed an ap­propriate name for what is supposed to be the newsletter of student government. 
Tripp Baltz guest column 
Once at dinner, I tossed the booklet aside and dove into a plate of Hungarian Noodle Bake. One of iny colleagues who was perus­ing his copy of "We The People" said, "You know, this is great. I think it's cool that stu­dent government has met the responsibility of informing me of what they've done through the year." 
Inspired by his eager praise, I looked in­side the newsletter. I noticed several references to The Observer and its policy of keeping its budget undisclosed to the students. There were several places where the newsletter referred to the personal achievements of student government of­ficials. There was even an editorial that call­ed for The Observer to open its books. All of the references to the campus paper were 


P.O.BoxQ 
Adopted child answers Wimmer's remarks 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing this letter in response to a March 7 Viewpoint column written by Gertie Wimmer: specifically in response to her views regarding "giving the baby up" ­adoption. As an adopted child I feel at least partially qualified to offer these views. 
Wimmer is correct in asserting that giving up one's out-of-wedlock baby involves "months of torment and shame." As she apt­ly points out later in the article, an unmar­ried, pregnant young woman's support groups can be very unsupportive. It takes great courage and self-determination to carry a baby to term and then say goodbye to it. Wimmer is also correct in stating that there will be years of wondering what hap­pened to the child and years of hurt. Never­theless, those nine months of torment and shame and those long years of wondering and hurt cannot equal the wondering, tor­ment and shame which will invariably occur, following the abortion of one's own child. 
Furthermore; any anguish I experienced as a child growing up was the same anguish which a non-adopted child would ex­perience. Had my biological mother decided to raise me herself, without a husband and father, I would venture to say that she and I would have experienced a lot more anguish which is not so common. 
Because my biological mother had the foresight to realize the consequences of choosing to raise her daughter alone, she chose instead to make a sacrifice. And because of this great sacrifice my parents were able to have a child. 
It saddens me to know that the average unattributed, and some of them were false. Bill Healy and student government were un­fairly exposing the paper to public contempt and ill opinion. 
That's serious. That's the definition of libel, according to Webster's New Collegiate Dictionary. And that's called using attribu­tion, by saying, "according to Webster's New Collegiate Dictionary." Perhaps Bill Healy should have brushed up on these things before he took on the managing editor posi­tionof ''We The People." 
So I turned to my friend, who was now in­volved with the sundae that lay before him, and asked him if he felt a few important issues had been left out to make room for student government's patting itself on the back. 
"But, I mean, I think they did a good job on the newsletter, anyway," he said. He sat back and admired the colorful two-tone layout and the thoughtful choice of photographs employed in ''We The People," satisfied with a job well done. 
So I took a closer look at the pamphlet. There were a lot of pictures inside, although I thought those of Ann Landers could have been accompanied by a story explaining how her appearance at Notre Dame was pertinent to student government's accomplishments during the year. There was also some space filled up by graphics of the leprechaun and the Notre Dame insignia, for the folks who don't often see these two flamboyant Univer­sity symbols. 
The newsletter felt sturdy, too. Maybe that's another thing my friend liked about it. I asked a buddy of mine who knows a thing or two about printing, and he said ''We The People" was inscribed on 70-pound paper, which is no cheap deal. Furthermore, Healy said that 4,000 of these things were printed in the black and blue layout formula. That's downright expensive. Like the full-page ad in The Observer that pointed out student government's feats after several students petitioned for Healy's recall. Why is all this money being tossed around? 
As a student who expects fair representa­tion from student government, I felt cheated that the staff of ''We The People" chose to write a house editorial about a subject that was put to rest six months ago, instead of more pressing issues such as divestment, pregnancy counseling, administrative rela­tions, campus improvements, social im­provements, student body government elec­tions, and so forth. 
Furthermore, what ''We The People" is asking the school paper to do is open itself up to editorial control, something that would destroy The Observer's independence and do absolutely nothing for students' rights on 
As a university community, we have anwaiting time for a healthy white baby is 4 to then I am afraid his message was lost. 
even greater reason to see that this injustice 
7 years. There are so many couples who can­Language is our enemy and our ally. It not conceive their own child and who would becomes an enemy through such narrow in-be corrected. Education is served by diversi-
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 

be able to give an adopted child a wonderful home, family and immeasurable amounts of love. It saddens me even more to think that our society is so callous and judgmental that no one feels strong enough to make the sacrifice of giving one's baby up for adop­tion anymore. 
Frankly, I'm glad that my biological mother "subjected" me to adoption and I thank her for her courage. I wish more young women would see this point of view before they limited their options. 
Jennifer L. Can!we/1 Farley Hal/ 
Poet Allen Ginsberg uses language as ally 
Dear Editor 

I wonder if your reviewer, Peggy Prosser, and I attended the same poetry reading this past Saturday. 
I heard an Allen Ginsberg who was animated, comical, sensitive, and deman­ding. Miss Prosser heard an Allan Ginsberg who read poems "dealing with punk rock, Nicaragua, and plutonium." Such an oversimplification is unjustified and irresponsible and smacks of the same sort of critical myopia which plagued Ginsberg dur­ing the 1950s. It was at that time that he . was reading his poetry in bars and cafes after having been banned from many universities. 
Ginsberg still uses the explicit language and sexual imagery that made the critics of the 1950s cringe. When he read his poem " Punk Rock You're My Crybaby" he did so for a reason other than to make the audience laugh. his message is his language. If more people listened to him as Prosser did, terpretations as Prosser's. Ifone allows language to breath and allows words their meaning without cringing or snickering, then language becomes our ally. 
Allen Ginsberg deserved better than to HAVE PEOPLE LAUGH AT HIS POETRY, he derserved better than to have people remember his reading through such comfortable signposts as "punk rock, Nicaragua, and plutonium." 
He deserved silence. 
Timothy A. Slavin 
Graduate student 


Opposes ND's stance on WVFI-WSND 
Dear Editor: 

My hat is off to Eileen Ridley and Reginald Daniel for their decision to resign as station managers of WSND and WVFI. It was commendable. The administration was unjustified in banning the public service an­nouncement of the Gays and Lesbians of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. First, the ac­tion ''was counter to a lot of things that a Catholic university should stand for," and second, it is a violation of the groups' civil rights. 
As Catholics, we profess a belief in a "catholic" church. This means we believe in a universal church with a diversity of member­ship. We are called to recognize and accept differences in people. We, as Catholics, would be outraged if a person were refused membership because of his or her skin color. To refuse to acknowledge diversity in sexual orientation is as non-catholic as to deny dif­ferences in sex and race. 
this campus. The Observer would become 
something like Pravda, a publication that is 
nothing more than the single voice of an ex­
treme, ruling party. I guess that would be 
similar to "We The People" in a way. 
In one full-length page, the newsletter 
referred to administration members in an 
over-gratifying sense. Ted delivered his com­
mandments, Tyson his Testament, and Joni 
her Judgment Day. Student government is 
supposed to work with the administration, 
not deify it. 
This is the extreme irony of a newsletter titled ''We The People." The whole thing is really a sort of self-immortalization. It's a sign Healy and his henchmen have done a poor job of representing the student body. It should be called, "I The Power-Hungry Despot." 
On the last page, Healy appears with his buddies in a photograph titled, "All the President's Men . . . " Is Healy trying to associate himself with Nixon? He was the last president to be referred to in such a light. And you know how his administration look­ed after all that? 
Black and blue. 
Tripp Baltz is an American studies/German major and is the photography manager of The Observer. 
ty. We learn through rational discussion and debate. To silence diversity is the first step toward intellectual imprisonment. 
Finally, the group's civil rights have been violated. We acknowledge the equality of all men and women; they are equal in the eyes of God and the courts. We are entitled to cer­tain rights, regardless of skin color, sex or sexual orientation, simply because we are humans. Infringement upon these rights is always wrong. 
This letter is not intended to be an ethical justification for homosexuality. It is intend­ed to make students aware of the unjust ac­tions of the administration. To correct this situation, the administration should issue an apology and lift the ban on the announce­ment. If these actions are not taken, the ad­ministration will be denying Notre Dame's claim to be a "Cath0lic university" and breaking a law. 
Mark Rabogliatti Dillon Hall 


Give the students their crayons for free 
Dear Editor: 
Now that Mike Switek and Don Mon­tanaro have backed into the offices of stu­dent body president and vice-president, I have a suggestion for them. In order to gain everyone's unwavering support and con­fidence, they should hand out complemen­tary boxes of crayons. That is what the 
students around best.  here  seem  to  respond  to  
Colin M. Lipnicky Pangborn Hall  

Quote of the day 
"Honesty is the first chapter in the book of wisdom." 
Thomasjefferson (1743-1826) 

"ielYP.~O_i_n~t~----------------------------------------M_o_n_da~y~,M__a_rc_h_Io_,_l_98_6__~Pa~g-e_9 

I______P~.O=----=-=.--B-=-ox_Q~_______J 
Teach what the Church teaches on sexuality 
Dear Editor: 
In response to Gertie Wimmer's article 
"Many lives can be ruined because of 
Catholicism," I would like to discuss three 
points: the authority of the Church, artificial 
birth control and her example of pre-marital 
sex. 
The authority of the Church's teaching comes from Christ, who sent the apostles to teach all the nations his commandments. Christ entrusted his apostles as " ... guar­dians and authentic interpreters of all the moral law, not only, that is, of the law of the Gospel, but also of the natural law, which is also an expression of the will of God, the fundamental fulfillment of which is equally necessary for salvation." (Humanae Vitae I,4). 
What is the Church's teaching on artificial 
birth control? To answer this question, one 
needs first to examine her stance on sex. 
What is the purpose of sex? Sex has a 
twofold purpose: unity and procreation. Sex 
unites the marriage couple in love for each 
other, while at the same time allows for the 
possibility of a child. (Humanae Vitae, 12). 
The unitive and the procreative aspects of 
the conjugal act are inseparable. It is wrong 
to use sex merely for procreation as it is 
wrong to use sex merely to unite two people 
in love who are not open to actualizing their 
love in procreation. A child is a concrete ex­
pression of the love between a man and his 
wife. Because artificial birth control does not 
allow partners in marriage to be open to the 
possibility of life, it is immoral. On the other 
hand, the birth control method approved by 
the Church, Natural Family Planning, 
allows a married couple to grow in love for 
each other while at the same time being open 
to the possibility of children. 
In your specific case, Wimmer, it is 
necessary to examine the relationship 
between the girl and her boyfriend. Are they 
fulfilling the requirements which are proper 
to the conjugal act? No. First, they are not 
married, and therefore they are not commit­
ting a conjugal act; rather they are degrading 
sex because they fail to understand the true purpose of this sacred act. Second, they ·are not open to the transmission. of life. Indeed, they may truly love each other, but they do not understand that their love can only be properly expressed in marriage. 
Premarital sex -a euphemism for for­nication -is rampant in our society. The solution to this enormous problem is better education in morality and the dignity of mar­riage. We as Catholics should know what our Church teaches and why it teaches it so that we may be able to educate others well. 
Michael/. Kueber Grace Hall 

Domagalski and Dink really cared about ND 
Dear Editor: 
Staring in amusement, I read the cam­
paigr. poster, "We don't care, you don't care, 
so why not?" Passing it off as a joke, I walk­
ed back toward my dorm thinking about the 
up-coming student body presidential elec­
tion. 
I thought about Jim Domagalski and how hard I ·knew that he works for student government. Being close to Jim for two years, I've seen him sacrifice everything ­his time, his health, and his studies -to direct his talents and intellect toward serving the students as sophomore and junior class president. The experience of holding these offices and his talents along with those of Laurie Bink could have been used to make the student government an organized and legitimate body. Domagalski could have dealt more effectively with the administra­tion than his predecessors and he could have upheld the respectable reputation of Notre Dame. 
Instead of voting for an excellent ticket which was most likely to accomplish great things for the student body, many students felt compelled to vote for the candidates whose platform was virtually non-existent. The ticket of Switek and Montanaro let everyone know that they did not care about student government; they just wanted to hold office and their only concern was "cheese and macaroni." 
I ask those who voted for this ticket to realize the ramifications of their actions. Not only has the concept of student government now been belittled to that of a joke, but Switek and Montanaro support the apathetic attitude that the student body has exhibited toward student government which Domagalski and Bink most probably would have changed. 
Granted, the student government has been a mess and I can sympathize with the student body's frustrations. Yet, to surrender to a ticket that says, "We don't care" is self­defeating and shameful. For the sake of the Notre Dame community and the world in which we live, I implore those who truly do care to please refrain from using their right to vote to destroy the efforts of those of us who care. 
Kevin Trautner Flanner Hall 

What a mockery the elections indicated 
Dear Editor: 

The election of Mike Switek and Don Montanaro is an absolute travesty. Notre Dame is one of the most highly respected universities in the nation, and the students here are among the most intelligent and talented young people in the United States today. That such bright, concerned in­dividuals could even think to elect two jokers over a seriously committed ticket is simply appalling. Jim Domagalski and Laurie Bink have both held numerous elected offices and positions of responsibility; Switek and Mon­tanaro have no such qualifications. Domagalski and Bink had serious plans and proposals; Switek and Montanaro did not even have a platform. 
Sure, I thought their campaign posters were funny. Sure, their quotes in the newspaper were humorous. I have absolutely no objection to their running -only to the infantile mentality of those students who voted for Switek and Montanaro and allow­ed them to win. What message does this send to the administration? Can the administra­tion be expected to take seriously anything that next year's student government states, after clowns rather than serious contenders are installed? Will student government possibly be able to accomplish anthing of value under the "leadership" of these inex­perienced individuals? 
To those students who voted for 
Domagalski and Bink, thank you for caring 
about what happens to our school communi­
ty next year. To those students who voted for 
Switek and Montanaro, your mockery of a 
very important issue sickens me. I only wish 
we did not all have to suffer the con­
sequences such a childish mentality can only 
bring. 
Katy Kennelly Breen-Phillips Hall 


High school perspective of play ruins meaning 
Dear Editor: 
How could anyone draw an analogy between the text of a play, which becomes art-in-motion in the theater, and a statue? Or between Shakespeare and Marilyn Monroe? Fie, Fran Norton! Mark Pilkinton's ''The Tempest" was not "based loosely upon" Shakespeare's text, as the reviewer claims, but was an interpretation of the text, based on a valid relationship between playwrite, play and director. 
The minimal set, with various levels pro­vided by its scaffolding, was quite authentic. The Masque was stylized, as it must be, and contemporary style may be better than an embarrassing attempt at 17th-century style. Any laughs this Masque garnered were at least intended. 
Shakespeare's language can, and does, captivate an audience. Gesture does not take away from the language; it enhances it. And no play presents itself ... plays are presented by theater companies. Norton ignored per­formances of individual company members and the quick, professional pace of the pro­duction. 
Perhaps the fault lies in the reviewer's in­ability to go beyond a high school student's superficial understanding of Shakespeare in performance. 
Carla Johnson Notre Dame graduate student 




Campus Comments: 



They won't do anything .... Nothing! The administration doesn't Why should it do what have enough respect for our students want? decisions to honor them. 
Rick Boneau Patty Fanning CaroiSpils Amy Treder Sophomore Freshman Sophomore Sophomore 

Editorial Board Operations Board 
P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Buaineaa Manager...................... David Stephenitch Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamihon Controller ............................. William J. Highducheck News EcJitor............................................. Frank Upo Advertising Manager ........................... Jim Hagan 
The Observer 11 the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Advertising Manager .................... Anne M. CulliganNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the 
Saint Mtuy'a Executive Editor ........ Thereea Guarino Systems Ma118f1er ......................... Mark B. Johnson adminiStration of either inatitlltion. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as pos­
Sports Editor ........................................... Jeff Blumb Production Manager....................... John A. Men nell Sible. Unsigned editOfials represent the opinion of a majority of the EditOfial Board. Commen­Accent Editor .........................................Mary Healy Photography Manager ........... Tripp Baltz 
tanea, letters and the lnaide Column present the views of their authors. Column apace is 
Viewpoint Editor .... .. ... ............ ... .. .. . ..... Joe Murphy available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Copy Chief ............. ; ............................ Philip H. Wolf 
campus, through letters. is enoouraoged. Founded November 3, 1966 
The Observer Monday, March 10, 1986 -page 10 


Sports Briefs NWIT 
continuedfrom page 16 

The ND hockey team closed out its 1985-86 campaign over the weekend with two losses in the Alabama-Huntsville Tour­nament in Alabama. Friday night the Irish fell to the hsot team, 5­4, while Saturday the Irish lost 9-5 to North Dakota State. Details of the weekend action will appear in tomorrow's Observer. -The Observer 
Off-Campus teams are looking for players for their spring interhall baseball and softball teams. Anyone interested in playhing baseball should contact Mike Frey at 272-0416 today. Anyone interested in playing softball should call Matt Coash at 283-3641. -The Observer 
An Tostal co-ed inner tube water polo sign ups will be held the week before spring break. Teams must field seven players at a time, two of which must be females. Teams may have a maximum of two current ND water polo team members or two varisty swimmers. For more information call Mike Roberts at 272-3971. -The Observer 
An interhall baseball tournament is being organized by NVA. Interested teams should sign up at the NVA office in the ACC by Wednesday. Rosters must include at least 14 players and should be turned in with a $15 team entry fee. For more informa­tion call NVA. -The Observer 
Twelve-inch softball tourneys for men, women, and graduate departments are being organized by NVA. Interested teams should sign up at the NVA office in the ACC by Wednes­day. Rosters must include between 12-16 players. In the men's and women's divisions, players must all represent one hall. In the graduate division, teams must be composed by department. For more information call NVA at 239-6100. -The Observer 
Men's and women's soccer tourneys are being organized by NVA. Interested teams should sign up at the NVA office in the ACC by WEdnesday. The women's division will be an interhall competition and a $25 team entry fee is required. The men's division will be an open tourney but the field is limited to the first 32 teams that enter. Entry fee for the men is $10 per team. For more information call NVA. -The Observer 
In the NUL last night, Washington downed the Islanders, 3-1. Other results were Winnipeg 5, Pittsburgh 3; Edmonton 7, Los Angeles 3; Buffalo 4, New Jersey 3; Philadelphia 4, N.Y. Rangers I; Chicago 4, St. Louis 2; and Calgary tied Detroit, 3-3. 
-A.P. 

Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday until 4 p.m.. at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Briefs should be submitted on the forms available at the office, and every brief must include the phone number of the person submitting it. -The Observer 
bids were : Duke, Idaho, Tennessee Tech, West Texas State, Nor­thwestern State (La.) and U.S. In­ternational. 
The eighth team was to have been added and tournament pairings an­nounced early this morning. 
Even though Notre Dame had won the North Star Conference on Saturday with a win at Dayton, the Irish had to hope for an at-large bid to the 40-team field of the NCAA tournament because the North Star does not receive an automatic bid. 
But when that did not happen at noon, Notre Dame's attention turn­ed to the NWIT. 
''We're very excited to have Notre Dame," said Porter Crawford, team selection chariman for the NWIT. "They will be an ex­cellent draw. They have played well recently and I think they were very deserving." 
The Irish, who finished the season with a record of 21-7, failed to gain a bid to either the NCAA tournament or NWIT last year with a 20-8 record. 
SObering

Advice . 

cansa~~\
..


alife /,. 
-~.· 
lht' f)hst'rtt•r '••In: D.tnH· ttt1ilt lt-tlJin.l••n tla tlurd f1,,,,r ,,, l.tl••rlllfll \llu.tnll( t·nrt·r .U.tt·pt,ll.l'''llc:dJthtrtt'lll).!lr••mtJ,am llllllltplll \1c•tlll.l\ thnntgh lndJ\ lhctJI>.,t·rter"'.atnt \1.Jn ,,,ftnt lttt,Jrtd••ntiH tlurdfl••••r••l ll.•gg.1r ( 1 dkgt· ( t flll"r .n t t pt.," l.l .... ,,ru d..., tr• •Ill I~ ~'' p 111 11111d ~ I' 111 \I, •11 d.l\ th••ll)!h )nd,l\ (ltJdlallc. f••r IH" d.t\ 1. l.t...,,lfHd' I'~ pIll "\II' l.t...,...,lfHd' 
mu,lhc. prcp.11d ctlhcrlllfl''"','''')\ 111.111 c li."J.!' '''''tttH,pc·rtnc th.u.h tl"r' c.·r c.l.1\ 





Classifieds 
NOTICES 
Wordprocesslng-Typlng 272-8827 
Typing available 287-<1082 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-89117 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MAS. COKER, 233-70011. 
ATTN: STUDENTS Dolores Francis typing service phone number change 27HI131 
TYPING -Fast, Hlgh.Quallty. Call 287-9257 
Need ride to WASHINGTON D.C. for Spring Break. Will share usual. Call Lorrl at 284-5315 
LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: BLACK AND GOLD STRIPED WATCH AROUND THE BUSINESS BUILDING OR ON THE PATH TO ST. MICHAEL•S LAUNDRY LOST LAST TUESDAY. PLEASE CONTACT TONY AT 1462. REWARDS$. 
LOST: Beige sports jacket at Laughlin Auditorium at S.M.C. downstairs first week of Feb. Dear lady who called me before, please call me again. Great sentimental value. Thank you lor your patience. The tag reads "G. Cannon 40169" Please call at 283-3244 
LOST: womens sliver ring of enor. mous sentimental value; possllby lost a lobrary. Call Kathy 3568. 
Lost: one RED TWO-WHEELED CART. Last left In front of Nleuwland Science on Thursday afternoon February 28. II found please contact Amy at 2~71. It would be very much appreciated and no questions will be asked. 
LOST: woman's Timex quartz watch with a white band. If you've found It please call Julie at 4570. 
LOST GIRL'S GLASSES SOMEWHERE AT SMC. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 284-4128. REWARD. 
HELP!II I LOST MY CLASS RING. THE RING IS GOLD WITH AN AQUA STONE AND BEARS THE INITIALS "TAD '86." I BELIEVE THE RING WAS LOST IN STEPAN CHEMISTRY HALL AROUND 2·10. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL TOM AT 3556 REWARD REWARD REWARD. 
At the B.P. SYR (2/15) I picked up the wrong Sport Coat. Hopefully that per­son also has picked up mine, II was a tweed Hunting Horn -similar to the one that I picked up. If you are lOOk­Ing lor your coat or have mine please call Kevin at 283-2113. 
LOST: CAR KEYS AT PARTY ON ED-­DY ST. SATURDAY. CALL AT 3444 IF YOU HAVE INFORMATION. 
FOR RENT 

FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR. 287-6389. 
······························· 
6 BDRM HOME. NEAR CAMPUS. 272· 
6306. 
GRAD ROOM $100/MO 2n·2045 
Semi-furnished house in good neighborhood 255-3684/277-3604 
FOR SALE 
AMIGA COMPUTER SYSTEM 

512 KB Expandable to8.5 MB. Superb 
color graphics with over 4,000 colors. 
Special 25 percent discount lor NO 
students and faculty. 
BUAKAT COMPUTER CENTER 
287-3344 

ACT NOWI DISKETTES Bulk 5-114" DSIDD. 49 cents each. Lots of 50. These are not 2nds. MONEY BACK GUARANTEE. No questions asked. Call 1.aoo.e34-3471, 9-9 EST M-F, 10-6 Sat. Offer expires 3­31-88. 
MACINTOSH FOR SALE 
GREAT DEAL ! ! 
CALL JIM 1097 
TICKETS 
TWO ROUND TRIP TICKETS ­good lor travel< ANYWHERE IN THE UNITED STATES. Best offer, call Ted 1874. 
WANTED 
2 sun-lovers DESPERATELY need ride to Florida for break I Will share expenses. call283-4684 ASAP I 
RIDE OFFERED TO MPLS./ST. PAUL, SPRING BREAK MICHELE 2685 
Students to sell Photo Club books. All Kodak products used lor process­Ing. Excellent income. Call654-3250. 
Two girls need ride to Ft. Lauderdale for break. Call Mary 1327 
Looking lor a tutor In Calc 117 and/or Organic Chern. this summer. II Interested, please call: 283-2949 Will pay. 
PERSONALS 
ALASKAN OPPORTUNITIES, thou..nda of aummer Job• .,. available, aam SS,OQ0.$30,000, Jllllll­phlet lalla you how. Sand S5 to AK OPP., P.O. Box2461, SLC, UTI4110. 
ST. PArs PARTY AT TIVOLI'S for the UNITED WAY I $.50 GREEN DRAFT BEER $1.25 AI.L MIXED DRINKS $1.00 SHOTS OF SCHNAPPS FREE IRISH BUFFET! $5.00 TICKETS ON SALE NOW 
Thank You St. Jude tor all your help! Please continue to help mel 
Hungry? Call YELLOW SUBMARINE at 272·HIKE. Delivery hours: 5pm­12am Monday-Thursdday; 5pm-2am Friday; 3pm-1 am Saturday; 4pm­10pm Sunday. 
································ 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE! 
FOR SALE: 1 WAY AIRLINE TICKET FROM CHICAGO TO PITISBURGH OR LATROBE LEAVING 3-21 (SPR­ING BREAK(. CALL LIZ AT 284-5209. 
SPEND THE SUMMER AND/OR 1986­87 SCHOOL YEAR IN SUNNY SPAIN. Quality Instruction at Economy Prices: Business Administration, Hispanic. Studies, Arts and Sciences. GRADUATE COURCES I~ HISPANIC STUDIES offered in July. Oustandlng Summer School. Contact: Admis­sions, St. Louis University, 221 North Grand Boulevard, St. Louis, MO 63103. Toll·free telephone: H!00-325­
6666. 

THANK YOU SO MUCH ST JUDE! 
REMEMBER -·,:.:.Ese .·riMEs· .A-No 
FRIENDS IN A WILD, FUN, OR SERIOUS PHOTO OF YOU AND YOUR FRIENDS, ROOMMATES, LOVER. (B & W OR COLOR) CALL STEVE AT 2459 FOR INFO. 
M.H.B.T.D. -MJ 
BOSTON BOUND FOR SPRING 
BREAK 
NEED A AIDE? 
OR GOING THAU ALBANY, 
SYRACUSE, ROCHESTER, BUFFALO 
OR ERIE? PLEASE JOIN TWO IN· 
TERESTING DOMERS ON THEIR 
WAY TO Harvard. We'll leave Frl 
March 21. PLEASE call3861 soon. 
NEED A AIDE LEAVING WASH., D.C. MARCH 2n Join two domera on their way back lrom SPRING BREAK. PLEASE CALL 3881. 
TRACK & FIELD Unlv. of Notre Uame Track & Field Team T-Shlrts and Grey Sweat Tops for Sale. A very LIMITED Supply. Perfect tor Spring Break. Prlces:$8 for T·Shlrts and $15 for Sweat Tops. Call Tom tor Information 277·7006 or 239-7634. 
d.c. aprlng br8ak bua Cost $70, Slgnups Mon. 3/10 from tH pm I~ LaFortune lobby. ?'s call Kevin Vlrostek at 1062 
CONGRATULATIONS SUSAN A. 
Yale Bound 
Yale Bound 
Yale Bound 

A certain "Yale Man" ????1?? Is quite 
taken by you. 
NOTRE DAME ARE YOU READY FOR ST. PATRICK'S DAY? THE ST. PATRICK'S DAY WEEKEND CELEBRATION IS COMING MARCH 14-17. GO IRISH!!!! 
YO! MCGRAW! I THOUGHT YOU MIGHT LIKE A PERSONAL OF YOUR OWN! THANKS FOR THE GREAT YEAR LOVE, BILL 
Riders needed to Daytona during Spr­ing Break. Just gas$$. Call Tim 2356 or Phil 2255. 
We need a couple of RIDERS to go In on a rent-a-car one way to Fort Meyers, Florida. Leaving March 20 pm ... Call Anne 2855 or Heather 2622 ... Only $79 rental charge If we make It In 24 hours!! 
OAII HOUSE: COLD BEER I LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. N.. 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
FREE COUPONS In the yellow pages of the Campus Telephone Directory. Use them today! 
Need ride to Cols. OH lor sp break. Kent 272-2064 
SMC OFF·CAMPUS SYR~BE THERE! 
SMC OFF-CAMPUS SYR !I! FRIDAY, MARCH 14th HAGGAR PARLOR AND CHAMELEON ROOM 9 p.m. -1 a.m. TIX $&$10 AT DOOR AVAILABLE IN 0-C DAY LOUNGE THIS WEEKI 
MISSING -TWO PAPERS FROM SMC ENGLISH DEPT, NEED FOR GRADUATION! PLEASE RETURN TO 136 LEMANS ASAP I! 
AeaiCPAa Don, taka br8akal 
Lisa Orchen A much belated congratulations on London! Don't you go changln' Love Murph 
Saint Louis people Call Susan Aylward She got accepted to Yale Law School Way to go Susan 
Applications for manager positions of 
The Cellar 
are available now at the record sotre in the LaFortune basement The forms are due In the Student Govern­ment offices by 5:00 this Thursday. 
So long and thanks for all the fish, St. Jude! 
I admit it! I'm a wimp. I want a break! J.B. 
DISCOVER 
DISCOVER 
DISCOVER 
EILEEN REGINA RIDLEY 'Tis a far far better thing you've done than a certain, none too select group of Papal Fenguins shall ever om­prehend. We who cherish the Bill of Rights respect and salute you. (how military) And I, dear frlend-o-mlne, love you. 
NEW NEW NEW Modam Engllah Just released! Only6.98 The Cellar, LaFortune basement 
WAZ-Congrats on a great victory In the Bengal Bouts! 
Dear Purple Zucchini, Beri grad you came! Guree Malku 
11:15 Comp. Govt. Cuties! Hello, tall, blue-eyed, curly blonde and dark handsome friend! Stop flirting, I can­not pay attention anymore. Realize that It takes one to know one. Signed, An Easy Lover. Write me a personal, I am anxious to hear from you! 
New York lor Break? ONE WAY ticket to Albany available on March 20 for an excellent price. If Interested call Sean at 2360. 
FRESHMEN MEET YOUR TEACHERS Tuesday, March 11 7-9 p.m. Lewis 
Hall Party Room It's a great chance to mingle with your profs! Refreshments will be served. 
Spacial thanks to the Obudsman Election Committee tor their great wortc In running the atuclant body elections I 
K. Marie G. from Mill Creek, you brighten every day tor me. 
To the handsome bartender at Sr. Bar wearing the white carnation Thurs. In the words of Howard Jones, "I'd like to get to know you welL" Signed, The Diet Coke girl 
HEY, IT'S KAREN "EDITH" HANDLOSER's 8-DAYI 
19YRS -NOW "THOSE WERE THE DAYS!"HOW ABOUT MAKING HER 
B-DAY SPECIAL? GIVE HER A CALL AT SMC 4244. LUV YA, "THE FAMILY" PLUS SOME 

The Obserwr 
Monday, March 10, 1986 -page 11 



NCAA bracket 
.............. SeoonclllleuiMI ........... lllltloMI ..........
c.._......,..P
March 1~14 March 15-111 


Kentucky 1 Duke 
O.vidaon 16 

118 Mill. Valley Sl 
I 

W. Kentuc:ky 
8 Old Dominion I 

8 
Nebraska at 
1_9 W. VirJinia Alabama 
5 VirJinia I

Xavier 
, 12 DePaul Illinois 
12 
4 Oklahoma I 

4 
Fairfldd 131_ 
, 13 Northeastern Purdue 
East 8 St. Jooeph's LSU 11, 
e 
11 Richmond MemphiaSt. 
J Indiana Ball St. 
3 
14 Clev•land St. Va. Tech 
14 
1 Navy

7 
March 14.116 Villanova 
10, 
10 Tulsa
I

Ga. Tech 2 Syracuse2 I 
1 

Marist 15 
15 Brown DaiiM, T-
St. John's 1 Kansas
1, 
March29 
I 

Montana St. 18 I 

18N.C.AI<T
I 

Auburn a 8 Jacksonville
Dallaa,T­March31 
111

Arizona 
II 
Maryland 
5 Mich.St. Pepperdine 
5 
12 Wuhinaton UNLV 
12 
4 Georaetown NELa. 
4 
13 Texas Tech UAB 6 
13 
8 N.C.St. Missoun 
11 Iowa

11 
N. Carolina 
3 NowDome lltoh 
3 
, 14 Ark.-Lillle Rock Bradley 7 
14 
7 lowaSt. UTEP 10 
, 10 Miami (Ohio) Louisville 2 
2 Michipn

I
Drex.el 15} ~ 15 Akron 



The Observer Monday, March 10, 1986-page 12 
Lewis edges Breen-Phillips, 41-38 
By KATHLEEN McKERNAN 
Sports Writer 
On Dec. 6, 1985, Breen-Phillips edged Lewis, 41-38, in the first in­terhall basketball game of the year. Three months, four quarters and two overtime periods later, Lewis got its revenge. 
And it could not have come at a better time. 
Last night in the ACC pit, Lewis defeated Breen-Phillips, 36-34, in doable overtime to take the 1985-86 women's interhall basketball crown. 
With tree seconds to go, freshman Ellen Mouch hit both ends of a one-and-one to put Lewis ahead for good. Although Mouch had the clutch free throws, Lewis Coach Mike Scotty emphasized the importance of team play in the vic­tory. 
"This game was truly a team ef­fort," said Scotty. ''We were pro­balby out-talented, but we adjusted to Breen-Phillips' different offenses and defenses and were able to get the win." 
At the end of the first quarter, Lewis held a slim 8-7 lead. But in the second quarter they increased the lead to a 16-9 halftime advan­tage. 
When Lewis' playmaker Katie Cavanaugh led off the seond half with a quick steal and a fast-break buckety, it appeared that Lewis was about to pull away. But Breen­Phillips, through the passing point guard Dava Newman and key baskets by Lisa Brown, cut Lewis's lead back down to one by the end of the third quarter, 22-21. 
In the fourth quarter, B-P took the lead for the first time since late in the first quarter with two from Newman. Lewis then countered with two steals from Celeste Freind and Ellen Mouch for four unanswered points. Breen-Phillips regained some of the momentum when Newman took a charge under the basket and, on a following play, Lewis' Coach Scotty was charged with a technical. 
Lisa Brown hit both parts of the two-shot foul, Carolyn Burke sank 
"We set up a play and a shooter," said Coach Scotty. "On the court, we executed it and got fouled on the play." 
That foul brought Mouch to the line. With her two shots, Lewis avenged that early-season loss, marred B-P's unmarred record and earned the women's interhall cham­pionship title. 
one underneath and Ann Curoe got two from the line to give B-P a 30­28 lead. As regulation time ran down, Lewis' Mouch came through with a jump shot in the lane. 
In the first three-minute over­time, Lewis took an early lead with Freind's basket, but B-P came back with single foul shots by Curoe and Brown. Time ran out with the score tied, 32-32, when Lewis failed to capitalize on its final possession with 12 seconds left. 
In the second overtime, Lewis led for most of the period on an early field goal by Freind. With 15 seconds left, B-P's Lisa brown can­ned two free throws to tie the score. Lewis called time. 

AP plroto 

Houston's Akeem Alajuwon rejects the Knick's super rookie Patrick Ewing in a game earlier this season. The Knicks lost to Chicago last night, 114-102. 

Grace defeats Pangborn, to face Howard/Ca v for IH title 
By ORLANDO RUBIANO 
Sports Writer 
It will be a battle of Krause divi­
sion rival in the interhall hockey 
playoff finals, as unbeaten Grace 
(7-0), who dominated Pangborn, 6­
1, will face upset winner 
Howard/Cavanaugh. 
Once again, it was the overall 
talent, depth and quickness of 
Grace that overwhelmed 
Pangborn. By utilizing aggressive 
forechecking and constant offen­
sive pressure, Grace managed to 
keep the puck in Pangborn's ter­
ritory most of the game. 
''We had some crisp passing and 
consistent play, not to mention 
more depth since they had some 
people missing," said Grace player­
coach Jim Rataczak. 
"To win the championship, we will have to keep our emotions under control, nto get complacent and play sound hockey. I think we have gottent he monkey off of our back (referring to three previous defeats in the champiohship round.)" 
''We gave it all we had," said Pangborn player-coach Wally Stack. "Defenseman Tom Stack and I were missing. We had a fine season this year, and forward John Powers and goalie Dave Long (five shutouts) were exceptional." 
The first two Grace goals came off of the stick of Rataczak. He scored the first from a rebound off of left wing Sam Dempsey's slap­shot. On the second goal, defenseman Mike Marino skated the puck across the blue line, fed Dempsey on the left slot who then made a picture-perfet pass to Rataczak. 
Dan Gullott socred the third goal on the assist of Mike Prendergast to end the first half. Center Drew Spesard scored the fourth goal, as Steve Bishop fed him the puck from behind the net after a Dempsey shot. 
Pangborn, which had only four shots on goal, netted a, breakaway goal as Tom Totter was assisted by Kevin Dolan and John Drew. Grace answered 30 seconds later when Lance Williams dug out the puck from a scuffle in front of the net and put it through the five-hole. 
Grace capped their scoring as Mark Galis came around the net to nail a rebound of a Rataczak shot from the point. 
Grace handed Howard/Cavanaugh its only defeat earlier this season in a closely con-
Notre DaDie Avenue Apartments 
NOW RENTING FOR FAIL 
Completely furnished, balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all delme features 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES 
(good deals for Summer Session) 
Office at 820 ND Ave 
~7/156-5716 
Call Anytime 
The Student Alumni Relations Group and The Student Government 
ordially invites you to the fourth Distinguished Alumni Lecture Series 
to be held on Tuesday, March 11, 1986 at the Hayes-Healy Auditorium 
at 4:00p.m. 
The lecturer will be Dr. Percy Pierre President ofPrairie View A & M. 
Dr. Pierre is a graduate of Notre Dame and has gained much prominence in engineering education and research, university and government admin­istration and technical and policy consultation. He will speak on "Issues in Higher Education." 
·······················~ 
allowed us to open our offense more. Our goaltender, Andy Fena, came through in the clutch. He's definitely a money goalie when we need him." 
With Cavanaugh/Howard trail­ing, 2-0, Clay Hamlin scored one minute into the second half to cut the deficit in half. After Chris Sullivan tied the game, Tim McLellan gave his team its first lead with seven minutes remaining. 
But it was Grant Weidener's goal two minutes later that proved to be tested game that saw Grace come away with a 4-2 decision. 


"I hope that we don't get over­confident," said Marino. ''We have to play as a team, as we did against Pangborn, and we will have to skate our butts off to win. 
Howard/Cavanaugh made a strong second-half showing as it rallied from a two-goal deficit to beat Alumni, 4-3. The loss was Alumni's first of the year, after go­ing through the regular season unbeaten. 
After being held scoreless in the first half, Howard/Cavanaugh captain John Oteri decided to make a defensive change. Seeing that Alumni had controlled the tempo of the game in the first half, Oteri switched his defensive scheme around which proved to be a wise move. 
"I decided to make a change in our defense pairs by bringin Clay hamlin and Chris Hodgdon in with Chris Sullivan's line," said Oteri. "This gave us more stability anr the winner, as Alumni scored with eight seconds left in the game for the final result. 
Alumni captain John Kalten mark said his team had its good chances to socre, but wasn't able to capitalize on them. 
"We had a let down, and let them back in the game and they took ad­vantage of it," said Kaltenmark. 
McLellan summed up his team's ability in one sentence. "We've been overlooked all year, and now our time has come." 
The independent student newspaper serv1ng Notre Dome and Saint Mary's is accepting opplicot1ons for the following positions 
Assistant Sports Editor 

Saint Mary's Sports Editor 

Questions about these positions should be directed to Dennis Corrigan at The Observer office. Personal statements and resumes ore due Thursday. March 13. ot7p.m. 
• !1z Medium PIZZA (any topping) I ! with extra cheese : 

i PLUS !• 
! Gonic Bread with cheese i 
: Delivery Orders Only ; 
(plus delivery and tax) 

:=. ··=· 
• $5.25 •f Limited Delivery Area : 
• It> ~~..--4-: 
• .tO ~ ~--RII-~ •
! ._,o"~'!fP" ~Pizza 5 
: co\)~ ; 
• 

: 52929 WI.31 Plolth :
: •• -,..-....--.....-: • 
:. 277-5880 : 

! GoodforSundaysandMondays i : only wltla coupon : e•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••I 

----------..--..----------....,...------~----------------------~-~----~----­
. 
The Observer Monday, March 10, 1986 -page 13 


Four seniors thank fans for support, look ahead to NCAA 
By MARTY BURNS 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The festive atmosphere at the ACC had subsided and the green ocean that was the crowd had gone home, but Notre Dame seniors Ken Barlow, Tim Kempton, Jim Dolan and Joseph Price were not feeling too bad after their last home game. For them, the party was far from over. 
"Hey, I'd just like to say thanks very much. It's been great," said Barlow to the student body after he had scored IS points to spearhead the Irish victory over Dayton. "We've won IS straight games here this year, but the fun's not over yet. We're heading to the NCAA's." 
That theme was a common one for all four Irish seniors as they spoke about their sentimental post­game feeling in a jublilant Notre Dame lockerroom. A combined 456 games played, over 3,500 points scored, 2,000-plus rebounds, and an 85-36 record could. not keep them from felling a bit sad about never playing before the home crowd again, but the chance to finally accomplish what they had dreamed about for four years made the moment a happy one. 
"It was pretty tough knowing we won't be out there again in front of the fans who've supported us these four years," said Dolan, who turn­ed in his usual workmanlike perfor­mance on defense and underneath the glass. "But each year we've done better and this year we have done what we came here to do. Winning the NCAA's is the only thing that could make it better." 
Better and better is what these seniors and the Irish basketball team as a unit have done over their tenure according to Irish head coach Digger Phelps. Forced as freshmen into key roles -against national powers like Kentucky, In­diana, and UCLA -the four players suffered many growing pains as well as successes. The fact that they have made such a giant impact on this year's 23-5 campaign 
·is what has impressed Phelps the most. 
"Each yhear they've gotten better and better, and that's really a credit to them as players and as people," said Phelps. "They really have believed in each other and that's carried over to the juniors, sophomores and freshment. 
"With our road schedule this year, winning 23 games is a credit to those four players." 
That performance over the· season did not go unnoticed by the II ,345 partisans that packed the ACC every night. And with 49 seconds left on the' clock Saturday they let Barlow, Kenwton, Dolan and Price individuall':,l know of their appreciation for their efforts. As each player jogged off the floor, he was greeted with a final rousing ovation. 
"With exactly 3:35 show'lng on the clock I looked up and relllized I'd be off for the last time," said a weary Kempton only moments after scoring 14 points and hauling down 14 rebounds in one of his all­time best efforts. "I've had my UJJ6 and downs but it's always been great. Through the years there were down times and the fans were frustrated, but I understood. We were feeling it too. 
"But I enjoyed it and have no regrets. And I'm glad I played well today because it was a good way to go out." 
"Looking up in the stands and realizing you'll never see this crowd anymore was sort of sad," noted Price who has been a consistent contributor though rarely a starter since he cam e to Notre Dame. "I feel satisfied, but winning the na­tional championship would be a way to improve it." 
There was little doubt Price was ina thankful mood after the con­test. Grabbing the microphone to talk to the crowd he said, "I've waited a long time to do this. First of all, I want to thank my fan club. I'd also like to thank the fathers (pointing to the section of priests) for their prayers. And the nuns, you can't leave them out. I'd also like to thank the alumni and the townspeople. And, of course, I want to thank the number-one stu­dent body in the country." 
Most Notre Dame fans would agree that the four years of enter­tainment provided by Price, Dolan, Kempton, and Barlow have been thanks enough. 



NCAA 
continuedfrom page 16 
63 win over Centenary on Satur­
day. 
Senior forward Michael Clarke 
leads a Little Rock front line that 
measures 6-6, 6-6, 6-7. Clarke is 
14th in the country in rebounding 
with an average of 10.2 per game, 
and he took most valuable player 
honors at the conference tourna­
ment. 
The Trojans also boast the top two scorers in the Trans America, 
TTENTION SENIORS. 
Senior Formal Bid 
COST: 
WHERE: WHEN: 
Sale 
$60 Includes cocktail hour, dinner dance at Palmer House 
LaFortune &LeMons Lobbies 
March 1 0-14, 5-7 pm March 17-20, 5-7pm 


seniors Myron Jackson and Pete Myers. A guard, Jackson averages 
19.5 points a game, while Myers contributes 18.9 points from his forward spot. 
In addition to those three, Little Rock starts two freshmen, 6-7 Paris McCurdy up front and 6-2 Paul Springer at guard. Springer hails from nearby Fort Wayne, Ind. 
Little Rock is coached by Mike Newell, in his second year at the school after serving previously as an assistant to Billy Tubbs at Oklahoma. Newell said last night 
Foreign StudyPrograms 
Ti~in, chim 


mrm!.ll. U'DIMIII mD WIP!Pil.~ 
FOR 
!IWUJIIDCO~ ~W~ IPUJWtrJUJWIMI 
IN 
U'DW~D~g ~WD~W 
--SiK weeks of Chinese Language ~ Cui lure --SIK ND Credil Hours for MLCH 125-126 --I 0 Day Tour of Major Chinese Sites 
ONLY $2600 FOR ROOM, BOARD, TUITION, TOUR, INTERNATIONAL AIRFARE! 

MONDAY, MARCH I 0,..12!lfl (>"30 PM 242 O'SHAUGHNESSY HALL 
(SATELLITE ROOM) 
t'IIN 1Nt-'111-4MI\TION1 Kn,,m 4211 Atlm\nhr.trat ll'ln Aullttim.1 

that he welcomes the chance to play the Irish. 
"Notre Dame is a really good pick for us," said the Little Rock coach. "We match up with them better than almost anyone we could have drawn. Their size is not bad from the standpoint that they're big but not oversized and the fact that they don't have a dominating 6-10, 6-11 center." 
When informed of Newell's com­ments last night, Irish center Tim Kempton smiled and chuckled lightly. Kempton, who comes in at 6-9, 245 pounds, is looking forward to the trip to Minneapolis because he has relatives in the Twin Cities area. An aunt and uncle on his father's side of the family live in a Minneapolis suburb. 
Kempton also stressed the impor­tance of the Irish not taking Little Rock too lightly and of playing the tournament one game at a time. 
"When you're in the tournament, it's a whole new season," said Kempton. "You can throw out all the records, the wins and losses, the seedings. One game makes a season. " 

SUMMER JOBS EAIIN $3000 ­$4500 THIS SUMMER • £Jrter~or House Pa•nl.ng • 14 Week M•n•mum Season • Management Oppo•run•l•es •n 1 sr Yeo• • 40 Hours Per Week ©·' . • Grear Career Exper~ence '. ,, @[b[b~@~ • Stortmg S5 Per Hour Wage (rJill£!F'ii' HURRY! Flfi0~~ickly ~TEAM HOUSE PAINTERS ApplicatiOn Holt-: Monneopolls Sl Pour ... _,.... ---\ (612)tJ5·1210 CfliCOQO We•l Suburbs Clevelond Suburbs uu> .....209 <2••> u• -Ot57 Ctl•COQO Norttl Shore Columbus (JU) Gf·l21• (6.4) If• · ttOO Exciting Perm•n•nt C•reerl Alao Av•  


I---------------­
Eucharist is our Gift . .. Thu can live it for life! 
I 

To: Brother Robert Zeegers. S.S.S. Vocation Coordinator IJ.l') W. Harrison St. Chicago. lL 60607 
Yes, I am interested in information about The Blessed Sacrament Fathers and Brothers. I would like to know about your community's Eucharistic life and mission. 
My Name: __________________ 
Address: ___________________ 
City: __________State: ___Zip: ___ 
0 Please send me information 
0 Please phone me at Area Code I ___ ----­
~ The Blessed Sacrament Fathers and Brothers 

Phone (312) 243-7400 

Tickets 
continuedjrompage 16 
Approximately 15,000 tickets re­mained as of last night. The Metrodome seats just over 30,000 for basketball. 
To purchase a ticket for Notre Dame's first-round game, you must purchase the entire package of tickets for all first-and second­round games in Minneapolis. By NCAA regulation, single-session 
Irish 
continuedfrom page 16 
the lead to two points on a baseline jumper by forward Andy Brown with over 7 minutes left in the first half. Notre Dame then called its first timeout hoping to stop the Dayton run. 
Gavin turned things around for the Irish, hitting from the baseline to put Notre Dame up, 20-16. Bunek then made two free throws to give the Irish a six point lead, tickets cannot be sold until 24 hours prior to game time. 
The cost of the two packages is $36 and $45. According to Jerry Bell, ticket manager for the Metrodome, the $45 packages are going fast and will be sold out soon. 
"I don't believe that we'll sell the full 30,000 tickets, Bell said, "but it will be pretty close." 
With nearby Iowa and Iowa State also playing in Minneapolis, it is expected that tickets for the games will go quickly. 
which they wer able to maintain for 
the rest of the half.? 
In the second half, Notre Dame 
was able to increase its lead on the 
sharpshooting of Keys from the 
outside and the strong play of 
Botham on the inside. With less 
than four minutes remaining, Keys 
hit a jumper from the baseline to 
make the score 59-48. 
But Dayton was not dead yet. 
Guard Mary Byers made two jum­
pers, and Theresa Yingling hit from 
the lane to narrow the lead to five. 
After trading baskets, Kruty scored 
from the left, and then Dickerson 
tipped-in a miss to cut the score to 
61-60. 
Following a Notre Dame 
timeout, Keys hit a jumper, but 
Byers came right back to hit two 
free throws for the Lady Flyers. 
Gavin gave the Irish a three-point 
lead by sinking both ends of a 
ONE-AND-ONE. 
The Lady Flyers were unable to 
score the next time down the floor 
and were forced to foul Gavin 
again. With only eight seconds left, 
the sophomore hit the front end of 
the one-and-one, which gave the 
Irish a four point lead and the vic­
tory. 
This marks the second year in a 
row that the Irish have won the 
North Star Conference title, as they 
finished the regular season at 21-7 
(13-1 in conference play). Next up 
for Notre Dame is the first round 
of the NWIT in Amarillo, Texas, 
beginning March 20. 

-~-----------~-~----~--_...,..--------~--~­

The Observer 
56th Bengal Bouts come to a close with tightly-fought title matches 

By SCOTI INGLIS 
Sports Writer 
The final round of the 56th An­nual Bengal Bouts was held Friday at Stepan Center on a night that would see 14 champions crowned in the conclusion to a tournament that began with 104 boxers, the most in Bengal history. 
The crowd of 3,650 fans wat­ching the action saw a number of excellent matchups, most of them evenly contested, between well­trained boxers, as only three fights did not go the distance on the night. 
The evening started out at the 125 lb. division with a bout between Patrick "Curious George" Baccanari and Thomas Berens. Baccanari dominated from the start, out-boxing Berens with a consistent right-hand lead on his way to a unanimous decision. 
At 130 lbs., it was Thomas "ham­merin' Hank" Hayman earning a close, split-decision vicotry over John "The Butcher" Goodwine. Hayman started off slowly, taking the brunt of a Goodwine combina­tion of rights and lefts early, but was albe to use his strenght advan­tage to bully Goodwine on the ropes later on, pulling the fight out with a good third round. 
Michael Noone provided the first knockdown of the evening in the 135 lb. bout, leveling Mark Ander­son early in the first round with a big right off a left jab. Noone, who drew blood from Anderson's nose in the second round, continued to use his right effectively for the re­mainder of the contest and termed his unanimous-decision victory "A dream come true." 
In one of the most eagerly an­ticipated bouts of the evening at 138 lbs., best friends Anthony Bonacci, a poised, finesse fighter, and Edward "Fast Eddie" Bornemann, a strong, shifty southpaw, squared off in a match that left both fighters smilihg after­wards. Bornemann was not quite fast enough, however, as Bonacci took a unanimous decision and the title from his friend. 
''Fighting Ed was everything I ex­pected it to be and more," said Bonacci. "He is so strong and in such great shape that it was tough three rounds. We had fun out there, though." 
At 140 lbs., Joe Romero pulled out a close, split-decision victory over Frank "INT" Tantalo in an ac­tion packed fight that drew a mixed reaction from the crowd when the decision was rendered. 
The matchup between Thomas ''Thunder and Lighting" Newell and Pat "Joe Man" Loughran at 145 lbs. was a contrast in styles, with the power of Loughran prov­ing to be tto much for Newell, who many considered to be the best finesse fighter in the Bouts. The aggressive Loughran gained a unanimous decision while stealing Newell's thunder with strong com­binations on the ropes against the shifty Newell. 
Due to an eye injury sustained in his bout on Wednesday against Robert Prebenda, Robert Harig was medically disqualified from his 
championship fight against  Matt  
Coash  at  147 lbs.,  who  was  
subsequently given the title.  

Bringing the crowd. to its feet before intermissionwas the 150 lb. match between Ted "The Truth". Gradel, a junior field-goal kcker, and John "Psycho" Weber. ''The Truth" was too much for Weber, who was continually hurt byh Gradel's left but manged to hang on to finish out the fight. Gradel's win seemed to capture the spirit of the Bengals. 
"There was just great crowd sup­port out there," said Gradel. "I'm in the best shape of my life, and it is very rewarding to see all that work pay off. I feel so strongly for this program and the cause. It's a ter­rific honor to be a champion." 
At 155 lbs., it was Michael ''No Mas" Mazza in a unanimous deci­sion over Jeff ''The Masher" Masciopinto in another crowd­pleaser. Neither fighter, although each was exhausted and bleeding by the third round, would say "No mas" in this one, as the fighters continued to exchange blows until the final bell sounded. 
It was a devastating uppercut and consistent left lead belonging to John Mundo in his 160 lb. bout against Andrew Wood that resulted in the first contest of the evening to be stopped early. Mundo hurt Wood in the second round as the referee gave Wood two standing eight-counts before the fight was eventually stopped with 59 secoMs to go in the third round. 
There was to be no surprise in the 165-lb. contest between defending champion Donald "Transpo" An­trobus and John Burlebeck, as An­trobus, a senior in his last ap­pearance in the Bengals, picked his spots and out-boxed his oppornent on the way to a unanimous deci­sion. 
In one of the better fights of the veining at 170 lbs., Kevin "The Hammer" Hamer was awarded a split-decision victory over Mark Polaski. Polaski, who had a destinct reach advantage over Hamer, did most of the damage in the first two rounds, but ''The Hammer" was able to pound out a victory in the third with some tremendous blows while the two fighters went toe-to-toe until the final bell. 
AT 175 lbs., Michael "Spike" Renaud, who combined boxing skill with incredible punching power, stopped David ''Wrecker" Becker at 1:01 to go in the third round to win the title. Renaud was on the attack from the opening bell, drawing blood from Becker's nose in the second round and forcing the ''Wrecker" to survive two standing 
eight-counts before putting Becker 
out of his feet in the third. 
By far the most devastating per­formance of the 14 fights was turn­ed in by John "The Captain" Uhll who left no doubt about who was in charge in his 185 lb. vicotry over law student Michael Ross. In the shortest fight of the night, Uhll floored Ross seconds into the first round with a crushing right-hand blow that came from nowehere and left Ross senseless for the rest of the round. After surviving two standing eight-counts, Ross was unable to answer the bell for these­cond round, and the referee stop­ped the contest. 
The final event of the night, a superheavyweight match between defending chapion Pernell "Sould Train" Taylor and Daniel Quinn, also provided the biggest surprise of the night, as Quinn stunned the crowd with a split-decision, come­from-behind victory over Taylor. the lightning-quick Taylor dominated the first two rounds of the fight but then the "Soul Train" ran out of steam in the third. With Taylor's hands low from exhaus­tion and the fan's favor switchin as fast as his fortunes, Quinn pound­ed Taylor for the entire third round for the win. 
"I was too tired to know what I was doing," said and ecstatic Quinn, who seemed almost as sur­prised as the crowd by his victory. "I felt I could take him coming in, but I con't believe it. I'm the champ." 
With this bout came a close to one of the most successful Bengal Bouts tournaments in their 56 year history. Despite the fact only 15 fighters would be called cham­pions, it was apparent that there were no losers in the Bengals, only winners, as a record number of 104 fighters particpated in the tourna­ment this year, raising what is hoped to be a record amount of money for the Holy Cross missions in Bangledesh. 
SObering Advice~; . cansavea life-~'\~. 1 
Think Before You Dririk -~ · 
Before You Drive _,__.. · 

The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following positions: 
Assistant Viewpoint Editor 
Questions about this position should be directed to Scott Bearby. Personal statements and resumes are due Friday, March 14at 5p.m. 
COME TO NEW HAMPSHIRE 
FOR THE SUMMER 
Camp Counselor Positions Available ot Outstanding Sports Camps 
Camp Wlnaukee for Boys and Roblndel for Girls. 
One mile apart on 22 mile lake. near 'On Golden Pond' s1te and the Ma.ne coast. Good salaries and all transportation pa•d Seek qualified specialists in all areas. 
Personal interviews available at LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
11om to 4pm-Tuesday, March 11 
Sign up in placement office or just stop by. 
Monday, March 10, 1986-page 14 
The Observer/Justin Smith 

Pernell Taylor, at right, slugs it out with Daniel Quinn in the championship of the super heavyweight division of the Bengal Bouts Friday. Scott Inglis has all the results in his story at left. 
.....¥¥¥···························~
* *
* *
t HAPPY±-S TO : : CRAIG ''The Kansas Kid'' : * *
* *
* ··························~ * 
: ~m ~ 
t "The Ranch Hands" ! : Mom, Dad, Missy, Tom & Snoppy ! * * 
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••l 
The Arts 8t Letters Advlsorv Council presents 
MEET YOUR MAJOR 

4:30-5:30 PSYCHOLOGY 200 Haggar Hall 4:30-5:30 COMMUNICATIONS/THEATER O'Shag Loft 5:00-6:00 ART 127 O'Shaughnessy 6:00-7:00 EDUCATION 2100'Shaugnessy 7:00-8:00 PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIES Grace Hall Pit 
Everyone welcome to attend. 


-
GRACE PIT PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIES 
EUROPEAN 
TRAVEL 

We specialize in student trips! SEVEN SEAS TRAVEL 
*Lowest prices available 
*We handle all travel details 

232·7995 
525 N. MICHIGAN 

~4CJtt:llC3L~---------------------------------------M__ lo•,-1_98_6 P_a.ge___
o_nd_a_y_,_M_a_r_ch__ ___ I5 

Bloom County Far Side
Berke Breathed Gary Larson 

NOW THeN ... PONTYrJIJ WORRY...
~U..O MRS. WHIICI<ef?. , IM YOI./1< 
NO ONe REAU..Y BeUf.VI35
UIW~R. STtVE mUllS. FUA5£ 
NOW. AKE: YOU 


WHAf weRE YOU AUe&EClt..Y 
OC/156 MY AP~ARIINU •. IM 
YOU AX~-MURP€RE"I7 YOU{{ 
f.MOr/ONPi..l-Y 

flOINC7 M 1f/E 1/ME 1VRNINI7
Hf/5FJANI7. C£AV€ MAmRS
SUFFER/Nb FRCW\ AN AW€X'Mf. 
PREPIIRE:Cl 1V 

OF 1Ht At.C£6617 CHARl-IE INTO
1D l't'E ANP I'U-bEr YOU
HAN60V --ER•. HeACJACH(;. 
oo oveR me 

CRIME ~ CH~P l-NEK!
Ollr Of 11fl5 Mf-55. 
17efAI£.5 AGAIN ! 
1 WHACKtfY­

1 I 
NO PROI3£.£M. 
WHflCKl
I

I 
I 

Zeto 


ACROSS 1 London area 5 TV'sGIIIIs 
10 Intimidates 14 Running track 15 Put up 16 Mine entrance 17 Holiday 18 Get a lift 20 Jeanne d'­21 Soft drink 22 Begin again 23 Has charge of 25 Sourceol 
grief 27 Partial refund 29 Unceremonious 33 Follows amo 34 Cotton Iabrie 36 Stir 37 Prepares 
potatoes 39 Talk with 40 Aquatic animal 42 BPOE member 43 London's river 46 U.S.C. sports 
rival 47 Esteems 49 Mad as a-


51 Irritate 8 US agcy. 52 Became alert 9 Abyssinia: 53 Drawing room abbr. 56 Surfeit 10 Life's work 57 Rowing team 11 Norsegod 
member 12 Off-target 60 Curmudgeon 13 Olla podrlda 63 Missile 19 Drygulch 
shelter 21 Witch's pet 64 One opposed 24 FacUlty 65 Chicago 25 Shore bird 
airport 26 Frequently 66 One poetically 67 The majority 27 Less common 68 Challenged 28 M.Zola 69 Diminutive 29 Moslem priests 
suffix 30 Critical stage at Wimbledon 
DOWN 31 An Astalre 1 Davenport 32 Radio navlga· 
45 Wrapped 56 Luminary 2 Superior to tlondevlce 
48 Toast word 56 Came to rest 3 Certain sedans 35 Furious 50 Nice summer 59 Klndof 4 Bullfight rah 38 Drinking mugs 52 Holy: Fr. teaming 5 Unraveled 41 Ballet skirt 
53 Rip-off 61 Seed container 6 Someexams 44 Inflation 54 River near 62 Triumphant 7 Second bright­result for 
Plsa exclamation est star short 
55 Land parcels 63 Take to court 


Kevin Walsh 

Campus 
•5 
p.m. -Senior Formal Bids, $60 per couple, LaFortune and LeMans lobbies, Sponsored by the Senior Formal Committee *6:30 p.m. -StudyStudy in China, Room 242 O'Shaughnessy, Sponsored by the Foreign Studies Program 

•7 
p.m. -Panel Discussion, "Preparing for the Study and Practice of Medicine in the 1990s," admissions directors from four midwestern med schools and a second year medical stu­dent, Room 118 Nieuwland, Sponsored by the Pre-Professional Society *7:30 p.m. -Lecture, "Universal Capitalism: A Way to Social Justice," Stuart Speiser, 


-
Lenten Speaker Series, "Living the Challenge 
of Peace," Center for Social Concerns, Spon­
sored by the Around the Corner Club, Center 
for Social Concerns, University Ministry and 
other campus groups 
*7:30p.m.-Meeting, RASTA (Rally Against 
Starvation), Little Theatre of LaFortune 
*7:30 p.m. -Panel Discussion, ".10 Kills," Alcohol Awareness Week, Breen-Phillips 24­hour Lounge, Sponsored by Student Govern­ment and Around the World Club 
•10 p.m. -Prayer for Peace, Grotto, Spon­sored by Pax Christi 

Ask one of the 3 million Americans whdve survived cancer, if the money 
•
Unttad\Vay 
spent on research is worth it. 
Weare 
. . 

wtnrung. 
CANCER. 
NOT 
KNOWING 
THE RISKS 
IS YOUR 
GREATEST 
RISK. 
IAMERICAN 
41CANCER 
'SOCIE1Y11 

The Student Activities Board presents: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
The Greatest St. Patrick's Day celebration ever!! 
.... 
Friday, March 14 starting at 12:00 pm, 24 hour D.J.'s Saturday, March 15 Irish run, Irish Bash on South Quad (Including the Glee Club, Shenanigans, &Dando' Irish along with several other performers!!) 
--· 

~~~------------------------------------------------------~~ 
KEEP WATCHING ADS FOR MORE INFORMATION 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ww~~~~w~ww~~~~~~w~~~~~----------------~ 

Monday, March 10, 1986-page 16

S~orts 
Next stop for Irish: Metrodome in Minneapolis 

Irish down Dayton, 69-55, as seniors say farewell to ACC 
By LARRY BURKE Barlow scored 15 points, 11 in 8:46. The Flyers, meanwhile, as 12 points in the first half, but minutes of the second half. "In Assistant Sports Editor the second half, while Kempton missed their first six shots and cut the Irish lead down to five the second half the Irish reboun­added 14 and a season-high 14 re­didn't score until Goodwin hit a with six seconds left. Notre Dame ding was the key factor." 
An important chapter in Notre bounds. Dolan converted a three­layup 4:58 into the game. After 14 stole the momentum back at that Notre Dame outrebounded Dame men's basketball history point play in the second half and minutes Notre Dame led 12-7. point, however, as Rivers took Dayton 18-10 in the second half, came to a close Saturday after­pulled down four rebounds in 20 "I thought in the first half we the inbounds pass and went coast­enroute to a 39-24 advantage on noon and much to the delight of a minutes of action. were rushing our shots," said to-coast to hit an eight-footer. the boards. capacity ACC crowd, it turned The Irish (23-5) were paced by Phelps. "We weren't balanced "We didn't seem to fall into our "Everyone talks about how out to be a happy ending. David Rivers' 27 points, one short and we weren't keeping our poise. game plan," said Flyer coach Don physical we play and we do play 
The final home game for a of his career high set at BYU in I think we were a little overanx­Donoher. "In the first half, we physical," said Kempton. ''Some talented quartet of Irish seniors January. The Flyers were led in ious at the beginning trying to get got into a tempo, but that last people say we're dirty, but I don't produced a 69-55 win over the scoring department by Dave the early lead. But defensively, possession, when Rivers scored, think we're dirty at all. We just Dayton. It was an emotional Colbert's 27 points (17 in the se­we were doing what we wanted to was a backbreaker." fight for our position and play game that served to strengthen cond half) and Damon Goodwin's do by making them beat us from hard every chance we get. It's Notre Dame's NCAA tournament 18. the outside." Rivers and the Irish picked up when you don't get good position position, while at the same time In the early going it looked as if Notre Dame held a 27-20 lead where they left off in the opening that you get in foul trouble. So we ending Dayton's hopes for a tour­Notre Dame might be suffering at the half on the strength of some minutes of the second half, going play physical -we play hard every nament bid. from some emotional jitters, as solid free throw shooting -13-of-on a 10-2 spurt to open up a 37-22 second. 
In their final ACC appearance, the Irish seemed to be having 14 in the first 20 minutes. But lead. Four of those points came Ken Barlow, Tim -Kempton, Jim trouble getting the offense in the Irish connected on just 32 per­on slam dunks by Barlow, and "We felt we weren't looking to Bolan and Joseph Price helped sync. But the Flyers were having cent (7-of-22) of their shots from four more on a 12-footer and a them as much as to ourselves. Irish coach Digger Phelps win his problems of their own. the firld in the first half, while layup from Rivers. Whatever Dayton wanted to do, sixth straight game, which was Notre Dame jumped out to an Dayton was hitting only 29 per­"We tried to establish our zone, we felt that if we did what we also the 300th of his Notre Dame early 6-0 lead, but then scored cent (7-of-24). but barlow penetrated that side." were capable of, then they career. Dayton fell to 17-12. iust two points over a span of The Flyers trailed by as many Said Donoher of the early couldn't stop us." 
Next Stop for Irish women: NWIT in Amarillo 
ND seeded 3rd in Midwest, to face Ark.-Little Rock 1st 
By JEFF BLUMB 
Sports Editor 
Name the top rebounding team in the nation and you've named Notre Dame's first-round oppon­ent in the 1986 NCAA tournament. 
The Irish will face the University of Arkansas-Little Rock Friday at the Metrodome in Minneapolis 

when Notre Dame opens play as the No. 3 seed in the Midwest Regional. The game will begin at 
10:37 p.m. EST. 
Should the Irish get past Little Rock they will play Sunday against the winner of the North Carolina State-Iowa game. Little Rock is the 14th seed in the region, while N.C. State and Iowa are seeded sixth and 12th, respectively. 
"I know nothing about 
Students must call for tickets 
By JEFF BLUMB 
Sports Editor 
Student s who wish to purchase tickets for Notre Dame's NCAA tournament game Friday against Arkansas-Little Rock may do so by calling the Metrodome ticket office at (612) 333-5577 from 9 a.m. to 5 
p.m. Notre Dame's allotment of 
NCAA bracket, page 11 
250 tickets is likely to be used up by administrators, Notre Dame Ticket Manager Mike Bobinski said last night. 
Bobinski will try to make ar­rangements today for a sale of tickets experessly to students but he 
advises students to call Metrodome ticket office if want to be assured of tickets.  the they  
see TICKETS, page 13  


ND takes bid ; NCAA snubs 
By JEFF BLUMB 
Sports Editor 
Not to be left out of post-season activity yesterday was the Notre Dame women's basketball team. After being snubbed earlier in the day by the NCAA tournament, the Irish accepted a bid to the National Women's Invitiational Tournament at 6:35 p.m. The NWIT is an eight­team tournament -played in Amarillo, Texas, March 20-22. 
''We're honored to be a part of. the NWIT," said Irish head coach Mary DiStanislao. "It's especially gratifying for the seniors and it's great confidence-builder for the underclassmen. Meeting your goals and expectations like this makes a season worthwhile." 
By late last night, seven of the tournament's eight teams had been finalized. Other teams accepting 
see NWIT, page 10 
Irish beat Dayton, 66-62, to clinch North Star crown 
By JOHN COYLE 
Sports Writer 
With revenge and postseason play on its mind, the Notre Dame women's basketball team defeated Dayton Saturday night at the U.D. Arena, 66-62, to capture the North Star Conference title. 
The trio of Trena Keys, Mary Gavin and Sandy Botham combin­ed for 52 of the 62 Irish points. Keys led all scores with 22 points, and Botham tallied 13. 
But it was the socring of Gavin, which really helped the Irish. The sophompre point guard enjoyed one of the best games of her career, shooting a perfect 7-of-7 from the field and finishing with 17 points. Though Gavin is a capable socrer, 
.·~ she is usually more of a passer than 
The Observer!Drew Sandler 

a shooter so the extra points were a
Notre Dame guard Mary Gavin defends against Loyola's Sharon 
big part of the Irish win. She also
Carr in a game earlier this year. John Coyle has the details of 
had eight assists and made three
Notre Dame's 66-62 win over Dayton in his story at right, while 
steals.
JeffBlumb has the story on the team's bid to the NWITat left. 
The force under the boards for Notre Dame was forward Heidi Bunek, who collected 12 rebounds and chipped in with 4 points. Dion­dra Toney also had four points. and Lavetta Willis came off the bench to score six points. 
There was not a lot of scoring in the first several minutes, as both teams got off to a slower starts. Dayton especially had problems finding the basket, managing only six points in the first eight minutes. Notre Dame, meanwhile, got its of­fense going and was able to open up its biggest lead of the game, 16­6. 
Keys was the big contributor to the Irish to-point lead, hitting three outside jumpers. Toney was also hot, scoring all four of her points in that eight minute span. 
After a Dayton timeout, the Lady Flyers came back to narrow 
see IRISH, pa1£e 13 
Arkansas-Little Rock," said Notre Dame head coach Digger Phelps after tournament pairings were an­nounced last night. ''We'll try to get some tapes on them tonight and then work from there. 
"But, as I've said earlier, it's not who you play or where you play. When you get to this point in the season, you just play. You .say, 'It's show time now. Let's go do it.'" 
Little Rock, 22-10, has won 18 of its last 19 games, and the Trojans lead the country in rebounding margin with an average difference of 8.9 rebounds per game. The Irish, with an average margin of 8.7, are second in the nation in the category. 
A member of the Trans America Athletic Conference, Little Rock won that conference this season with a 12-2 mark. The Trojans,pro­ceeded to gain an automatic bid to the NCAA tournament by winning the T AAC tournament with an 85­
see NCAA, page 13 
/~£ 
The Observer/Drew Sandler 

Irish senior forward Ken Barlow takes a jumper in Saturday's win over Dayton. Jeff Blumb has the details on Notre Dame's NCAA placement in his story at left and ticket sales in his story at right. Larry Burke has game details below. 










